f 



. 



Methuen's Shilling Novels 



A SERIES of popular novels by distinguished authors at is. i et. 
The books are reprinted in handy form fcap. 8vo. on- go id 
paper, and they ?.re tastefully bound in cloth. The first volumes 
published have been a great success. 

The following are either ready or in the press : 

The Mighty Atom Marie Corelli 

Jane Marie Corelli 

Light Freights w. w. Jacobs 

The Guarded Flame w. B. Maxwell 

The Demon C. N. and A. M. Williamson 

Lady Betty Across the Water 

C. N. and A. M. Williamson 



The Tyrant 

Anna of the Five Towns 

The Secret Woman 

The Long Road 

The Severins 

Under the Red Robe 

Mirage 

Virginia Perfect 

Spanish Gold 

Barbary Sheep 

The Woman with the Fan 

The Golden Centipede 

Round the Red Lamp 

The Halo 

Tales of Mean Streets 

The Missing Delora 

The Charm 



Mrs. Henry de la Pasture 

Arnold Bennett 

Eden Phillpotts 

John Oxenham 

Mrs. A. Sidgwick 

Stanley Weyman 

E. Temple Thurston 

Peggy Webling 

G. A. Birmingham 

Robert Hichens 

Robert Hichens 

Louise Gerard 

Sir A. Conan Doyle 

Baroness von Hutten 

Arthur Morrison 

E. Phillips Oppenheim 

Alice Perrin 



Methuen & Co., Ltd., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 



Methuen's Shilling Library 



/SERIES of general literature issued in fcap. 8vo. at is. net, 
printed on good paper and well bound in cloth. The books 
ari -eprints of well-known works by popular authors. 

The/allowing are either ready or in th-; press : 

A Little of Everything- E. V. Lucas 

The Vicar of Morwensto\v s. Baring-Gould 

John Boyes, King of the Wa-kikuyu John Boyes 

*Jimmy Glover His Book James M. Glover 

Vailima Letters Robert Louis Stevenson 

The Life ot Tennyson A. C. Benson 

An Ideal Husband Oscar Wilde 

Lady Windermere's Fan Oscar Wilde 

De Profundis Oscar Wilde 

Selected Poems Oscar Wilde 

Lord Arthur Savile's Crime Oscar Wilde 

The Blue Bird Maurice Maeterlinck 

Mary Magdalene Maurice Maeterlinck 

Sevastopol and other Stories Leo Tolstoy 

*The Life of Robert Louis Stevenson 

Graham Balfour 

*The Life of John Ruskin w. G. Collingwood 

The Condition of England C. F. G. Masterman, M.P. 
Letters from a Self-Made Merchant to his Son 

George Horace Lorimer 

The Lore of the Honey Bee Tickner Edwardes 

Under Five Reigns Lady Dorothy Nevili 

*From Midshipman to Field Marshal 

Sir Evelyn Wood 

Man and the Universe Sir Oliver Lodge 

* Slightly abridged 



Methuen & Co., Ltd., 36 Essex Street, London, W.C. 



JIMMY GLOVER 
HIS BOOK 



BY 

JAMES M. GLOVER 

MASTKR OF MUSIC AT DRURY LANE THEATRE 



METHUEN & CO. LTD. 

36 ESSEX STREET W.C. 

LONDON 




First Published, at is. >tet, in 



first P-nbliskud . 
Second Edition . 



October 12th IQI f 
. Octcbff r<)ii 



TO 
MY WIFE 

KATHLEEN 



CONTENTS 

CHAPTER 1 

PAGE 

My first public appearance In the Dock Casfci- 
gation by a Cardinal Kissed by a prima 
donna Apprenticed to a chemist- Early ac- 
quaintance with Fenianism I become a 
Church organist And theatrical runner 
" The Professor," my grandfather Editor of 
" Moore's Irish Melodies "- My Dock appear- 
ance as a vocalist Briefing " The Inter- 
pruter" Sentence "The Meeting of the 
Waters " Early Italian opera associations 
with Colonel Mapleson, Senior Dublin gal- 
lery riots The old -prima donna rivalries : 
Operatic Masses " Elijah " sung by the great 
operatic stars of the 'Seventies Mapleson's 
tricks to shorten operas and railway fares 
Henry Irving and Barry Sullivan -John 
Harris Michael and John Gunn The 
"drowned" omnibus " Willie O'Brien, the 
' Freeman ' reporter " Tom Sexton First 
public appearance of Oscar and Willie Wilde 
Willie Wilde's "Daily Telegraph" method 
An illustration Sir William Wilde Oscar 
and " The Poet and the Puppets " " Vert- 
Vert " and Dick Mansel The Mansel family 
" The Gaiety Girl " Jimmy Davis and his 
" Bat " experiences How to publish a 
"warm" story The Right Hon. W. H. Smith, 
Chancellor of the Exchequer and " News- 
vendor " . 17-40 

CHAPTER II 

More Fenianism The escape of James Stephens, 
the famous Head Centre Christmas turkey 
and plum-pudding outside the prison My 

9 



io JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

PACE 

father inside Baron Dowse Irish conspira- 
tors and South African "traitors" James 
Stephens and " Dr. Jim " Chemist's boy to a 
monastery in Normandy Peter Burke, Editor 
of "Burke's Peerage '"I start translating 
French playsFrench and English ^seaside 
resorts A comparison - " The National 
Theatre " agitation begins What Victor Hugo 
said to me -Early comic opera days in Paris 
Emile Audran and his contracts The 
Basque peasants and their contracts- Arthur 
Collins recruits " to fight the Boers "My first 
experience as a " Pianist-musical director "- 
A "Commonwealth" . 41-56 

CHAPTER III 

I join Charles Collette Theatrical Digs George 
Moore's " Mummer's Life " how it was 
written The Novelty (Kingsway) Theatre 
Financing the show The ex-convict money- 
lender with the gouged-out eye Insuring the 
backer's life for salaries At the Old Bailey 
Teddy Solomon the Guards' burlesque 
Keeping the " Ladies of the Chorus " respect- 
able " The Mahdi " deletes my chorus I 
compose, conduct, sing, dance and stage-man- 
age for fifty shillings a week How II.R.H. 
the Prince of Wales refused to be smuf^'d 
into the theatre Lord Alfred Paget and the 
music-librarian -Some musical discoveries 57-7- 



CHAPTER IV 

About Night Clubs " The New " Hughie 
Drummond Blundcll Maple Sam Lewis 
" The Gardenia " " The Corinthian " closing 
them up Police raids " Half world " humour 
an attempted suicide- The Percy Street 
Club The Dolaros The Nell Gwynne A 
thirty-five pound supper " The Alsatians " in 
Oxford Street Electing the members A 
" mixed " marriage a " missing " bridegroom 
a disgraced bridal gown Early Bohemian- 
ism The Clubs of the 'Eighties Harry Wil- 
son The Jewish Thief From the Albany to 
Spinks in Piccadilly via Paris, St. Petersburg 
and Monte Carlo A "plant" in Bond Street 



CONTENTS ii 

PAGE 

A cheque trick Dan Leno The Prince of 
Wales sees two performances in one day at 
the same theatre . 74-87 

CHAPTER V 

Restaurant London A few sketches The 
brothers Gatti Romano's The end of Ro- 
mano's Bar Its varied clientele Phil May 
His early life A few corrections " Phil " 
As drawn by himself Romano's death 
Mr. Alfred de Rothschild pays four guineas a 
bottle for brandy Charlie Hawtrey and the 

new cashier The Marchioness of H and 

the frustrated Guardsman's wedding D'Oyly 
Carte and the Liverpool Band . . . 88-95 

CHAPTER VI 

First experience as a Journalist In Dublin 
'Ireland's Eye" "Dick" Dowling Edwin 
Hamilton Richard Pigott The " Times " 
forger Paris The Moores " The Hawk" 
Its distinguished staff J. Huntly McCarthy, 
fames Runciman, Fred. Greenwood, Clement 
Scott, G. Bernard Shaw, A. B. Walkley, R. 
S. Hichens, Charles Williams and F. H. 
Gribble Changing " The Bat " to " The 
Hawk " How we were Financed Libels at 
Bow Street The Policy of libel actions 
Jimmy Whistler and the Drury Lane row 
The new halfpenny journalism How Lipski 
was hanged Chester Ives and the Parnell- 
O'Shea divorce T. P. O'Conner " The Sun" 
Kennedy Jones, etc. The Kennedy Jones 
prophecy Gladstone Labby " The Even- 
ing News " and an all-night vigil for 
" Truth " pulls The Clement Scott debacle 
Its early history " Willy " and the cab story 
About Lord Russell of Killowen The 
thieves at my Hampton Court residence 
First-night stories How Lord Randolph 
Churchill resigned as a Cabinet Minister . 96-110 

CHAPTER VII 

Augustus Harris, Knight First meeting He 
commences stage-management on his own 



12 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

PAGE 

Lord and Lady Dunlo Harris " reforms " the 
music-hall At the Palace How it emerged 
from bankruptcy to bullion With Harris at 
Drury Lane How Arthur Collins saved a 
situation Operatic experiences How Jean de 
Reszke " drew " on his own Sending Jean " a 
few seats" Jean's retaliation He takes a 
theatre and produces a play in forty-five min- 
utesRunning three opera-houses a night 
How great artistes sang at Windsor without 
salary The Legion of Honour" Quelque 
chose du ban " A medical certificate Punt- 
ing on the river after Melba H.R.H. and the 
omnibus box Harris' ruse Arthur Collins, 
stage-manager Arthur Collins, Colonel-- 
Amusing contretemps- Queen Victoria 
watches Arthur Collins set the scenery Mas- 
cagni at Windsor Conducts at a music-hall 
Plancon was " presented " and a prima 
donna was " not " Conan Doyle and " Water- 
loo " How Harris got out of a tight corner 
General operatic remarks . . . iu-i>8 



CHAPTER VIII 

More about Augustus Harris and Arthur Collins 
The Passing of Augustus Harris John 
Coleman's " interregnum " with " The Duchess 
of Coolgardie " Collins _ has an "option" to 
buy Drury Lane Harris' humour German 
Opera and G. B. Shaw hand Sore-throated 
singers and sore-headed authors Harris and 
his first backer His experience with a " serio 
lady " in Glasgow He writes a cheque on the 
back of a French menu for half a French 
play His fortune ..... 129-142 

CHAPTER IX 

How Arthur Collins floated Drury Lane His 
many disappointments Invalid, peevish, and 
recalcitrant stars Leno and his humours 
" Born " and " made " Leno and Campbell 
fall out of a balloon" G.G.'s " telegram The 
early discovery of Leno and its later bearings 
The old pantomime and the new The old 
whistling top gallery Spectacle, humour, 
and music-hall turns Ballet music Its mod- 



CONTENTS 13 

PAGE 

ernisation Comparison with the older styles 
How the music of the music-hall has im- 
proved Chance for new blood . 143-159 

CHAPTER X 

The Collins regime continued A human docu- 
ment Jimmy Harrington Dan Leno out- 
witted The relief of i.adysmith as a panto- 
mime " gag " Sir Herbert Tree and the new 
Lady Macbeth other Tree-isms Von Bulow 
Cecil Raleigh and his collaboration Harry 
Hamilton England's adversities and Cecil 
Raleigh's play Hoaxing Ancona with the 
Queen's present How the tenor got ready for 
C9vent Garden in Italy Stories of the late 
King Edward Disfiguring the Band-Parts 
Landon Roland's commencement Henry 
Neville's orchestral experience . 160-173 

CHAPTER XI 

Comic opera " Chilperic " again Arthur Sulli- 
van The prejudices exhibited towards light 
music in academic institutions " The Lost 
Chord" as a hornpipe Farnie's great genius 
French operas and their mode of transplant- 
ing Musical comedy " La Poupee " Songs, 
ancient and modern " Killarney " Edmund 
Falconer "Spring, Gentle Spring" Bouci- 
cault and " Babil and Bijou " and " The 
Shaughraun " " Dorothy " and " Queen of my 
Heart "" Tommy Atkins "" Soldiers of the 
Queen " " The Absent-minded Beggar "- 
How Sullivan wrote it who " scored " it 
"Two Lovely Black Eyes "" The Man who 
Broke the Bank" "Beer, Glorious Beer "- 
The Trocadero in the days of music-hall 
"Lions" before mutton-chop " Lyons "- 
Paulus' season the " free-list '' Banking the 
cheques The wrong india-rubber stamp 174-102 

CHAPTER XII 

A National Opera-house No Permanent Orches- 
tras in London In 1888 Bricks and mortar 
Mapleson's Police Station National Opera- 



U JIMMY GLOVERHIS BOOK 

PAGE 

house How to really secure a National Aca- 
demy of Music Augustus Hams' project- 
How to collect a permanent nucleus Maple- 
son's discoveries Opera Schemes and Schools 
of Music Sir Joseph Barnby Operatic tor- 
tunes How good Opera pays Carl Rosas 
discoveries . . iQ3-2"> 

CHAPTER XIII 

People I have met" The Follies "Their 
origin, success, big Manchester coup 
" Slang " Some specimens Catch phrases 
Criminal stories The Gattis again London 
Police Courts Mr. " Too-Cleverly " G.G. as 
a Bow Street shorthand writer Holloway Jail 
experiences Barney Barnato Arthur Stur- 
gess and Lord Mersey .... 211-223 



CHAPTER XIV 

Andrew Melville Four bars of " agit "Real- 
ising the posters Picking up actors at Derby 
Station The Maybrick case in " Faust "- 
Wilson Barrett W. W. Kelly The " queue " 
outside the Princess' box-office The dead- 
head system Mrs Langtry as a pantomime 
fairy -Walton and Hemming The clog dance 
and the Prince of Wales Richard Mansfield 
" Ten minutes for refreshment " Sam Lewis 
and the Peerage Who wrote Shakespeare's 
Plays 224-234 



CHAPTER XV 

Olla Podrida The progress of the music-hall 
" Faust " in a music-hall in the 'Sixties 
" Potted " opera no novelty Types of singers 
in the past The Sisters Leamar Belle Bil- 
ton, i.e. Lady Dunlo, the Countess of Clan- 
carty Various music-hall stars The Empire 
Starting it as a music-hall " Wiry Sal " 
Jack Jarvis George Edwardes " Refresh- 
ment contractor" And manager The Palace 
Its opening Its failure Its finance Its 
success The improvement in the music 
Sound music for the people " The Times " 



CONTENTS 15 

PAGE 

protests- I reply General remarks An Irish 
inscription Two ' Faust " stories Strauss 
and Wagner A " Caux " celebre Nicolini 
Actress-Peeresses ..... 235-256 

CHAPTER THE LAST 

Drury Lane The 1881 "Command" at Aber- 
geldie "Money" Command in 191 1 Why it 
was selected History of Drury Lane Theatre 
William Davenant (1639) to Arthur Collins 
(ign) Plays produced from Augustus Harris 
to Arthur Collins Benefits The " Com- 
mand" performance Official cast, etc. His 
Majesty's letters of thanks Mr. Collins' ac- 
count of the evening The King and the R. 
A.'= pictures " A pleasant surprise " The 
German Emperor's song : " Wake up, Eng- 
land "Possibility of strained relations 
Various comments ..... 257-277 



JIMMY GLOVER- HIS BOOK 



CHAPTER I 

My first public appearance In the Dock Castiga- 
tion by a Cardinal Kissed by a great primer donna- 
Apprenticed to a chemist Early acquaintance with 
Fenianism I become a Church organist And the- 
atrical runner " The Professor," my grandfather 
Editor of " Moore's Irish Melodies " My Dock 
appearance as a vocalist Briefing " The Interpruter " 
Sentence "The Meeting of the Waters" Early 
Italian opera associations with Colonel Mapleson 
Senior Dublin gallery riots The old prima donna 
rivalries: Operatic Masses " Elijah " sung by the 
great operatic stars of the 'Seventies Mapleson's tricks 
to shorten operas and railway fares Henry Irving 
and Barry Sullivan John Harris Michael and John 
Gunn The "drowned" omnibus "Willie O'Brien, 
the ' Freeman ' reporter" Tom Sexton First public 
appearances of Oscar and Willie Wilde -Willie 
Wilde's " Daily Telegraph " method An illustration 
Sir William Wilde Oscar and " The Poet and the 
Puppets " " Vert-Vert " and Dick Mansel The Man- 
sel family " The Gaiety Girl " Jimmy Davis and 
his "Bat" >xperiences How to publish a "warm" 
story The Right Hon. W. H. Smith, Chancellor of 
the Exchequer and " Newsvendor." 

I MADE my first public appearance, vide the bap- 
tismal registry in the Pro-Cathedral in Dublin, 
on June i8th, 1861, the date of this event syn- 
chronizing with the anniversary of another great 
happening the Battle of Waterloo. My second 
notable performance was seven years later in the 
dock of the County Cavan Assizes Court. On 
each occasion domestic history, always flattering, 



i8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

recounts that I was a "great success"; but my 
second advent was even greater than my first, 
because it more or less decided my future career- 
one of unusual variety, considering that before I 
was twelve years of age I could boast that I had 
been thrashed by a real live Cardinal, and kissed 
by a real live Italian opera prima donna. 

The first experience I underwent at the hands 
of the late Cardinal MacCabe, during his Kings- 
town Canonry, the second at the lips of the late 
Madame Theresa Tietjens. The cane of theology 
fell on a certain part of my corpits like water on 
a duck's back, although, to be strictly accurate, 
1 was in the process anatomically less favoured 
than the duck. The kiss of Music ruined me. I 
had the misfortune to be born of a musical family. 
My grandfather, Professor Glover, was organist at 
Marlborough Street Pro-Cathedral and a prominent 
teacher of music, my mother occup} r ing a like 
position at another Church Mount Argus--my 
father combining the duties of a commercial travel- 
ler, six days a week after his political debacle 
in 1868 with that of a Church vocalist on the 
seventh day, as basso pro/undo in Whitefriars 
Street Church. Two of my aunts were harpists, 
a third was a soprano vocalist of eminence, and I 
had two grand-aunts, over seventy years of age 
each, who gave music-lessons from eight in the 
morning till eight at night. 

Of course, it was only natural that, possessed of 
the required facilities for a favourable musical 
career, every effort should be made to turn my 
mind to something else, and in this great negative 
movement for my social advancement my father 
led the van with eminent but only temporary suc- 
cess, for at a time when I was deputy-organist 
at two Churches with artistic qualifications of no 
mean merit, he succeeded by a masterstroke of 
commercial ingenuity in apprenticing me for three 
years to a druggist for ten hours a day at a weekly 
wage of four shillings. " Bottle-washing," my 
grandfather said and bottle-washing it un- 
doubtedly meant to the end, had I adhered to 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 19 

my father's wishes but such was not to be the 
case. 

The first notoriety I came in contact with was 
P. J. Tynan, the famous "No. i." Tynan was a sort 
of newsvendor-stationer on the shores near Dublin, 
and I was one of three small boys who with a 
nurse worried his stock-in-trade every afternoon. 
I was too young at the time to appreciate any- 
thing political brewing (however amplified as I 
grew older), but I gathered sufficient knowledge 
to know that my father's attendance at various 
secret Fenian meetings gave my mother much 
thought and worry. As a boy, I often accom- 
panied him, and I can vividly remember two mid- 
night funerals done in the dark, to prevent the 
mourners from being recognized as suspects ; and 
that I attended "en plein air " the obsequies of 
John Mitchell, Sergeant McCarthy, and John Mar- 
tin. Consequently to wake up one morning and 
find a posse of " horneys," as policemen were then 
described in Dublin, surrounding our private resi- 
dence at Sandycove, caused no excitement in my 
mind till my father was subsequently arrested and 
" jailed " (owing to Mr. Gladstone's suspension of 
the Habeas Corpus Act, 1866), without trial or 
enquiry of any kind. This latter incident is in 
connection with a happening referred to later on. 

This all brought me to the earliest possible time 
that I remember earning my own living, or, as my 
grandfather tersely put it, " doing something to 
keep me out of the workhouse." 

Thus it came about that on many occasions I 
played the early service at the Pro-Cathedral in 
the morning, sold senna and salts till 6 p.m. at 
Cornelius Mannin's, the Dublin druggist's, played 
another service in the evening at my mother's 
Church, St. Michael's, in Kingstown, or at Mount 
Argus, which I left later on for the then greatest 
honour of all in my view to carry the red fire 
which, as a chemist, I had made in the daytime, 
to the property-man at the local Theatre Royal. It 
will be noticed that in my early existence the 
Church and the Stage were amalgamated. In fact, 



20 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

it was owing to my anxiety to " scamp " the Bene- 
diction service at Kingstown for fear that I should 
miss the train and be late at the theatre, and dis- 
appoint the clown with his two pounds of red fire, 
that I was subjected to the castigation already re- 
ferred to at the hands of the late Cardinal MacCabe, 
a gentleman, a great theologian, but an anti- 
Nationalist. 

These few cursory remarks, as I have hinted, 
will serve to show that for a young gentleman 
turned eleven 3^ears of age I obtained very early 
experience of more or less entertaining incidents. 

There was one person, however, who played a 
very important part in my early life, and to whom 
I owe my present position. It was he who taught 
me everything I know. It was he who, against 
my will, physically thrashed my musical education 
into my brain, who rescued me from the menial 
service of the druggist counter, and at his own 
expense, albeit contrary to my father's wishes, 
placed me in a position to earn my own living. 
Whether it be writing for the Press, the ability to 
speak several languages, my knowledge of the 
piano, the violin, or the organ; I owe it all to him, 
and I thank the Providence which enabled him (.o 
live to see some honourable fructification of his 
labours. This was my grandfather, John William 
Glover, " The Professor," the famous Irish com- 
poser and Editor of " Moore's Irish Melodies." 

At certain fixed periods of the year it was Pro- 
fessor Glover's custom to prosecute short tours of 
the smaller towns in Ireland for the purpose of 
lecturing on National Music. These lectures were 
generally delivered in the local Town Hall, 
assembly rooms, lecture hall, or Court House. In 
the event of the latter place being used, he usually 
sat upon the Bench with an instrument in front 
of him called an " orgne expressive." This con- 
trivance doubled itp into an oblong-shaped box for 
travelling purposes, and on one occasion it was 
seized during one of the then frequent Fenian 
scares and my grandfather " held up " for two- 
hours on the assumption that it contained firearms 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 21 

a polite attention of the Royal Irish Constabu- 
lary due to his relationship to my father, who at 
this time was really a marked man. The vocalist 
of the evening, if any at these " Soirees musicales," 
had to contribute his quota of the entertainment 
either from the witness-table or the dock. It was 
from the latter vantage that I made my second 
public appearance already referred to, for full of 
the family pride ever present on such occasions my 
grandfather announced that I would sing " The 
Meeting of the Waters." It was really a most 
important Pooh-Bah occasion. I commenced my 
evening's work by unpacking the luggage, taking 
out and fixing the organ, collecting the money at 
the doors, selling the programmes, books of words, 
etc., and then made my appearance between the 
first and second parts as " The Celebrated Young 
Boy Vocalist Master Williams the Boy Mario." 
Of course my name wasn't " Williams " at all, but 
the old Composer wished to convey to the public 
the impression that he had brought a budding 
Mario, or Sims Reeves, from London especially for 
the occasion, and this impression would be entirely 
dispelled if I appeared as one of the family. 

In the daytime I used to wander about these 
Assize Courts and pick up many a good story. It 
is well known that in the West of Ireland the real 
Gaelic is much spoken, and at the Assizes a 
genuine impasse arises in the cross-examination of 
many of the various prisoners, so much so that a 
prominent Q.C. then on the Galway Circuit told 
me one of his many experiences of this difficulty. 
He was standing on the doorstep 'of the Court one 
summer when he was accosted by Paddy Flana- 
gan. " Begorra Mister Murphy it's meself that's 
glad to see ye ; ye got me out of the last neck 
trouble and it's mi bruther is up this time for 
a hanging job. By the Virgin Mary he's inno- 
cent, but all the witnesses speak the Irish, and it's 
only yourself that knows the owld tongue." As a 
matter of fact the barrister in question was well in 
demand in Gaelic cases on account of his pro- 
ficiency with the language. " I really cannot," he 



aa JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

replied, " I have a long civil case for the Midland 
Railway. " But you must, Mr Murphy, or mi 
bruther will get hanged," and so the gentle art of 
persuasion went on and the barrister equally as 
gently refused till in despair, unable to get rid of 
the importuner, he suggested that if the brief was 
sent to him he knew a young Gaelic scholar who 
had been " devilling " in his chambers who could 
do it just as well, and whom he would privately 
" read up " in the case. " Nay nay, Misthur 
Murphy, Oi'll have none of that, it's yourself that 
can git mi bruther off," and off the supplicant 
went. 

The barrister thought no more about the case till 
the next Assizes, when he once more encountered 
Paddy. " Well, my man, how did your brother 
get on?" was his tender enquiry from his old 
client. " Och begorra, all right he got off." 
" Off," said the barrister quite pleased, " did you 
retain my young friend then? " " Sorra a retain." 
" Then who did you brief? " anxiously pressed the 
Q.C. " Oh, be Jabers, I briefed the interpruter. " 

Early associations with the musical world 
brought me later in touch with operatic and 
theatrical matters, and the old opera days of 
Colonel Mapleson pre began at this time to make 
a deep impression on my youthful and theatrically 
inclined mind. Never were there such days or 
nights. Tietjens, lima di Murska, Trebelli and 
her husband Bettini, Cotogni, Luigi Arditi and Li 
Calsi two splendid maestri of the old Italian 
school the young George Perren, Signer Campo- 
bello (Mr Campbell) a Scotch basso with an 
Italianized name, Charles Santley, Wilfred Morgan 
("My Sweetheart when a boy"), who married 
Miss Morton, daughter of the late Charles Morton, 
the " Father of the Music Halls," " Mister " Foley 
from Cork, i.e. " Signer Foli " : these were names 
to draw with in those days, and with such musical 
babies' milk was I nursed and my mind educaio-: 
in the real school of good Opera. 

Mapleson toured with a sort of " leader " chorus 
of Italians and other professionals of foreign kind. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 23 

In each town he could locally reinforce his troupe 
with twenty or thirty choir vocalists who knew the 
operas- musical enthusiasts all, thus saving a 
large amount in railway fares. One regrets this 
rough-and-ready way of forming an " ensemble," 
but it had its virtues. Hardly any Dublin draw- 
ing-rooin was complete without a set of all the 
operatic works, and Dublin's great musical taste 
was a natural sequence. 

Then there existed various factions of the 
"Boys," the " Tietjens," the "lima di Murska," 
and the " Sinico " tribes who, on " Magic Flute " 
or other " combined cast " nights, would all enter 
by the early doors to the top gallery, with large 
baskets of flowers suspended on ropes of roses, and 
at the proper time lower out the floral complimen- 
tary tributes each to their particular favourites 
with cries of " Dy Murska! " (lima di Murska) to 
be answered by counter-cries of " Tishens ! " 
(Theresa Tietjens) or " Sinnyko ! " (Madame 
Sinico). Mozart's work was always chosen for the 
evenings of these displays of enthusiasm and tem- 
per, mainly on account of the three prime donne 
being in the cast on the same evening. Then there 
was the dragging of the carriages home, the un- 
horsing by willing volunteers, the showers of 
violets from enthusiasts standing by, the wreaths 
o^ roses presented by real music-struck admirers ; 
and on Saturday nights, what fun to stand at the 
old Theatre Royal door and hear the shouts of 
"What Mass to-morrow?" "What Church to- 
morrow?" For all the artistes sang in one or 
other of the Catholic Churches on Sunday, and this 
replenished the poor-box. This also created rivalry 
among the Churches, all of which struggled for the 
better " programmes." 

Imagine it ! A Mass service sung by Tietjens, 
Sinico, Santley, Vizzani, Cotogni, Trebelli, Bettini. 
They went either to the Pro-Cathedral, where my 
grandfather was organist, or to the Church in 
Kingstown where my mother was organist, or to 
Whitefriars Street, where Signer Alessandro 
Cellini, their brother Italian, was organist, and 



24 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

where I was also a " deputy." A performance of 
" Elijah " one Sunday at St. Michael's at Kings- 
town gave my mother its music-directress, the full 
force of the " Grand Italian Opera Company " 
before mentioned, of whom the only survivors to 
this day are Charles Santley, whose recent fare 
well at Covent Garden professionally ended a great 
career, Administrator Fricker, now of Rathmines, 
and the present writer. 

Another great amusement on Saturday nights 
was the often successful attempts of the gallery 
boys to frustrate Mapleson's ideas of economy in 
transit. The fares from Dublin to England on 
Sundays on special mail and boat rates were very 
expensive, as in those times the third-class service 
did no Sunday work. Now if Mapleson travelled 
150 souls the difference to England in transit might 
mean anything from a pound to two pounds per 
head ; so, finding that the local Tedcastle coal-boat 
with passenger traffic left on Saturday night at 
midnight, he usually chartered all its human 
freight power at six shillings a head to Liverpool, 
where they would arrive on Sunday mornings witn 
the whole day before them for further transit across 
England. The poor Italian choristers and travel- 
ling band, mostly bad sailors, could not protest on 
their own account but the " bhoys " in the gallery 
soon discovered the trick, for it meant instructions 
to the conductors, Li Calsi, or Luigi Arditi, to 
" cut " the performance only sing or play one 
verse of everything and take no encores. In this 
way the patrons of the popular parts saw that they 
were getting " short weight " and action was soon 
decided upon. 

Now the orchestral signal for " cutting " or go- 
ing to the end of any musical number, is two taps 
on the desk from the Conductor's wand, called in 
the vernacular, "tapping for the coda" or end. 
vSo whether it was "Ah! Che la Morte," 
Balen," The Soldiers' Chorus in " Faust," or other 
possibly to be encored popular item, the very 
moment that the " taps for coda " were heard there 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 25 

would arise on Saturday nights a perfect hurricane 
of howls from the " gods," " Second vurse y'ill 
hav' to go back ' Looeegee ' (this to Luigi Arditi) 
this won't do," etc., till these delays nearly -\p- 
proximated the original length of the cut number. 
Mapleson afterwards told me that although he be- 
lieved it was done first in all enthusiastic sincerity, 
he really found later on that this had become a 
carefully planned scheme by some of his Italian 
choristers, whose objection to mat de mer inclined 
them to the luxurious three-and-a-half hours mail- 
boat crossing on Sunday rather than the fourteen 
hours all-night coal-boat crossing on Saturday. 

The reason for shortening the performance was 
so that the impresario could pack up his wardrobe 
effects and catch the boat, which steamed away at 
midnight ; so later on he managed to make Satur- 
day a " Combination " programme finishing all 
the Chorus ensemble numbers by 10.30 p.m. 

The arrival for two fortnightly seasons of a 
young actor from London, named Henry Irving, 
first raised the point as to Irish rivalry with the 
then idol of the " gods," Barry Sullivan, one of 
the old brigade of thundering Shakespearean 
ranters who used his bombastic bigotry to such an 
extent that on one occasion, when they brought on 
a throne for " Richard III." and the older actor 
queried its usefulness, the property-man, as though 
to settle the point, remarking, " It was all right 
for Misther Irving," was promptly ordered by 
Barry Sullivan to " then certainly take the 
da d thing away immediately." 

At this time, the Theatre Royal, Hawkins 
Street, Dublin, was owned by Mr. John Harris. *n 
Grafton Street were Gunn and Sons, the great 
Roman Catholic music publishers, and on the b?ck 
part of their property was built the Gaiety 
Theatre, of which theatre the Gunns became 
lessees, and Harris, fearing opposition, put his 
Theatre Royal in the market, only to hear that 
the new tenants were his rivals, the Gunns. This 
preyed on his mind to such an extent that he grew 
morose. At the time he was stopping with a 



26 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

mutual friend, John Riley, whose back-garden butted 
out on the sea at Glasthule, and one afternoon he 
went out, lay down on an island rock, and waited 
until the tide came in to do its homicidal work. 

The Gunns were a very musical family; one 
played the " viola " in the various Philharmonic 
societies, and both sang in the Monkstown choir 
on Sunday. Cardinal (then only Canon) MacCabe 
took the opportunity of soundly trouncing them in 
the pulpit one Sunday on some supposed " inde- 
cent " posters announcing the arrival of " Tin- 
Two Roses," a new play just then produced in Lon- 
don. They were the most innocent specimens of 
printing in the world, and the Canon's attack was 
quite gratuitous ; but the two heads of the original 
ladies budding forth from the rose leaves lent them- 
selves to indecorous treatment by the vicious mind 
which brought protests to the clergy and a more 
or less suggestive cartoon in a local " squib " was 
the means of the matter being brought finally to 
the Canon's notice. 

One like the rose when June and July kiss ; 
One like the young rosebud sweet May discloses. 
Sweetly unlike, and ye v alike in this 
They are two Roses. J. A 

The two originals were Miss Amy Fawsitt and 
Miss Newton. Miss Newton was the wife of the 
still living, well-known actor, Tom Thome. Apart 
from anything else, this production of " The Two 
Roses " is always associated with the first success 
of Sir Henry Irving in London as the original Digby 
Grant. James, or " Jimmy," Albery, its author, 
who married the handsome Miss Mary Moore, 
rather pessimistically and erroneously wrote his 
own epitaph : 

He slept beneath the moon, 
He basked beneath the sun, 
He lived a life of Going-to-do 
And died with nothing done. 

Which, after everything is said, was not 
true. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 27 

Shortly after that, the Gunns, John and Michael, 
gave up these domestic duties, and after the death 
of the elder brother " Long John " (he was six feet 
four), Mr. Michael Gunn came to London, and for 
years threw in his lot with his friend, D'Oyly 
Carte, till " Mikado " time, I believe, when the 
arrangement was terminated. The Gunns' father 
met his death in a strange way. He used to travel 
to the office on a 'bus which crossed the Portobello 
canal bridge at Rathmines ; the horses one morning 
took fright, and turned right down into the empty 
lock 'bus, passengers and all. " Begorra ! " 
shouted the bewildered lock-keeper, " I'll save their 
lives by floating the "bus," which he immediately 
proceeded to do by opening the sluices, filling the 
lock and drowning all the passengers. 

It was during the management of John Harris 
at the Theatre Royal, Dublin, that the late Hor- 
tense Schneider the great Offenbachian " Grande 
Duchesse " came into contact with the then pre- 
siding Cardinalate of the Roman Catholic Church 
Paul, Cardinal Cullen, who had come to Dublin 
from Armagh, where he was Archbishop. Cullen 
was a schoolfellow of my grandfather, and he 
migrated to Rome after he was " called " and 
became a strong friend of Pius IX., the then Pope. 
His Italian education rather inclined him to regard 
with suspicion any movement of revolutionary 
character, and if only for this reason his descent 
on Dublin was looked upon by the Nationalist 
party with suspicion. 

1 served Mass with him dozens of times. He 
had a gentle nature, and encouraged the Italian 
florid style of music in Church service to such an 
extent that his own generosity recoiled on him, 
for, through certain protests from other quarters, 
Pope Pius IX. interfered, and he had to issue an 
edict enforcing a return to the St. Cecilian or 
more serious form of Church music now generally 
in use. 

Of course, the wisdom of this may be more or 
less questioned. John Wesley is reputed to have 
spoken, " Why should the Devil have all the good 



28 JIMMY GLOVERHIS BOOK 

tunes ? " But perhaps the Dublin fashion in 
ecclesiastical music was going too far. At any 
rate, the " musical priest " became an important 
factor, and the melodies of the Italian operas were 
easily translatable into Latin words for Sunday 
consumption. The Church filled like a theatre on 
Boxing Night, and many converts were made ; but 
jealousies arose, intimations to Rome, as I have 
"hinted, ensued, and the closure before indicated 
arrived. 

Many a time and oft have I as a boy buttoned on 
the layman collar to the priestly throat, and 
ciceroned Father Tom or Father Pat to a "re- 
hearsal " (not " performance " that was " inter- 
dit ") of " Trovatore," " Traviata " or other 
operatic programme. On one occasion, I well 
remember, the priesthood were much concerned as 
to the first production in Italian of " II Talismano," 
"Balfe's swan-song, so to speak, when it was 
rumoured that the " Mass " was to be represented 
in the Church scene. 

But back to the can-can and the Cardinal. During 
Lent, in those days, it was not thought " the 
thing " to go to the theatre, and so a casual visit 
during the forbidden period of a French Opera 
Bouffe Company supporting the great Hortense 
vSchneider in Offenbach's opera, "The Grande 
Duchesse," into which the can-can was first intro- 
duced, was played for its first week to sparse audi- 
ences and almost empty benches. But some one 
had told his Eminence the Cardinal, and to the 
utter astonishment of us all I was a handsome, 
chubby-faced, surpliced choir boy at the time on 
a particular Sunday, the Cardinal ascended the 
pulpit, dramatically denounced, in a Lenten ser- 
mon, the can-can, and threatened us Roman 
Catholics with all the terrors of the " Index Ex- 
purgatorius " if we dared to visit the theatre till 
Lent had spent its forty days. 

The result, as may easily be imagined, was 
packed houses at the theatre and empty pews at 
the Church. 

Shades of " The Times " in the 'Seventies, when 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 29 

the "moral" or "immoral" influence of a Drury 
Lane play, " Formosa," was the subject of a long 
discussion letters which it was afterwards found 
were written anonymously by Dion Boucicauli, the 
author of the play. 

Poor old Cardinal Cullen ! He was a sport, and 
many a good yarn is told of him in ecclesiastical 
circles. He at one time lived at the priest's house 
or presbytery, next door to the Marlborough Street 
Cathedral, and ordained that all priests, other than 
those on sick call leave, should be in house not 
later than 10 p.m. One night, in spite of all en- 
treaties and protestations from the holy father on 
duty, he insisted himself on doing the janitor's 
work, having an idea that social attractions in 
Dublin in which the priesthood always played a 
large part were interfering with the discipline of 
his orders. So he sat behind the chained-up door 
waiting till the small hours for two late " birds " 
out roystering at a neighbouring parishioner's " at 
home." At 2 a.m. a gentle tap came to the 
door and a priestly head pushed through the small 
aperture left by the hanging chain. " Is old Paul 
gone to bed yet?" said the overdue priest of 
God. "No," replied Paul (the Cardinal), "he is 
here." 

But in the morn he never said a word. 

At all the concerts which availed themselves of 
my mother's services my father generally admon- 
ished me " to look out for Willie O'Brien " (now 
Mr. W. O'Brien, M.P.), "the 'Freeman' reporter, 
and ask him to kindly mention your mother " and 
if I could catch " Tom Sexton of the ' Nation ' " it 
would be useful for a par. My grandfather always 
took the credit of introducing Tom Sexton, great 
"Nationalist, great orator, ex-Lord Mayor of Dublin 
and generally fine fellow, to politics. He dis- 
covered him at Waterford, so he always boasted, 
and asked the then struggling journalist to come 
to Dublin and stop with us in Talbot Street; but 
when the future great Home Ruler Nationalist did 
come, we sent him to a Mrs. Miley's, at 4, Upper 



30 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Gloucester Street, where lie had rooms on the first 
floor for years, and where all our family ultimately 
lived in the upper part for a long period. I must 
now publish an unreserved apology to Tom for the 
number of times I poured water into his boots, 
altered his nightly instructions to his landlady 
he always left a note to be called at twelve (he was 
late at the office) and I generally made it six 
rather inconvenient, as he seldom went to bed 
before 4 or 5 a.m. and generally amused my- 
self at his expense. But his kindly nature was 
never wanting, and paragraphs which I wrote 
about myself and my amateur club's dramatic per- 
formances, always received a kindly hospitality at 
his hands. It was years later that a raucous come- 
dian on the stage at a time when I was conducting 
the band, made a contemptuous reference to my 
friend and Mr. Parnell the night these two politi- 
cians were first arrested in 1881. I immediately 
rushed to the dressing-room, protested in strong 
language, and received what I am told was an 
attempt at " an upper-cut " the mark of which I 
bear to the present day but the disfigurement 
really meant a flattening of my nasal ornament 
which for ever bears the mark of my loyalty to my 
friend, of which I am more or less proud. 

Mr. vSexton's connection, after Isaac Butt's death, 
with the Home Rule movement, is now history ; 
but one of his first public appearances in Dublin 
came about, I think, in rather a funny way. It 
had been decided to celebrate the centenary of the 
poet, Thomas Moore, the author of " Moore's Irish 
Melodies." The then Lord Mayor (Sir J. Barring- 
ton) lent the Mansion House for the inaugural 
meeting, to make the necessary arrangements. 
From this meeting my grandfather, who was the 
musical adviser to the ceremonies, returned in a 
fury, complaining of the interference of "that 
young vagabond " Tom Sexton, and " two 
whipper-snappers," Willie and Oscar Wilde, the 
two sons of Sir William Wilde, the great oculist. 
The only cause for "offence" seemed to be that 
they had insisted on a better literary effort being 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 31 

submitted for the Celebration " Ode," arguing that 
the one already written by Stephen Nolan Elring- 
ton to my grandfather's music was " not worthy of 
Ireland." 

This, I think, was the occasion also of the first 
real public appearance of the late Oscar Wilde and 
his brother Willie the latter a delightful, genial, 
brilliant Irishman, who left us too early in a life 
not too heavily burthened with the real, genuine 
Bohemian wits. I do not know any word-photo- 
graph of a man which is so true to nature as my 
friend A. M. Binstead's description of Willie in 
" Pitcher in Paradise," which I quote by his kind 
courtesy : 

*' The best wit need.-- lamplight (says ' The 
Pitcher'), and tio gentler humourist or more 
polished gentleman ever entertained the thought- 
less patrons of the Spoofs (this was a night club in 
Maiden Lane, Strand, invented it is said by Arthur 
Roberts) the gilt-edged fellows who dropped in to 
kill time with a buck rabbit, but eventually stayed 
on to spend a delightful evening night after night 
than Willie Wilde. The personification of good 
nature and irresponsibility, Willie with ten thou- 
sand a year would have been magnificent : without 
other income, however, than that which his too in- 
dolent pen afforded, the poor fellow was frequently 
in straits which must have proved highly repug- 
nant to his real frank and sunny disposition. No 
doubt his artistic inactivity was to some extent in- 
herited . . . yet Willie loved (to talk of) his work 
and would charm the ears of the uninitiated with 
such soft south wind as : ' The journalistic life irk- 
some ? Dear me, not at all. Take my daily life 
as an example. I report at the office, let us say at 
twelve o'clock. To the Editor I say, " Good morn- 
ing, my dear Le Sage," and he replies, " Good 
morning, my dear Wilde, have you an idea to-day ?" 
" Oh yes, Sir, indeed I have," I respond. " It is the 
anniversary of the penny postage stamp." "That 
is a delightful subject for a leader," cries my editor, 
beaming on me, " and would you be good enough, 



32 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

my dear Wilde, to write us a leader, then, on the 
anniversary of the penny postage stamp?" "In- 
deed I will that with pleasure " is my answer. 
" Ah ! thank you, my dear boy," cries my editor, 
" and be sure to have your copy in early the 
earlier the better." That is the final, injunction, 
and I bow myself out. I may then eat a few 
oysters and drink half a bottle of Chablis at Sweet- 
ting's, or alternatively partake of a light lunch at 
this admirable club, for as rare Ben Jonson says, 
" The first speech in my Cataline, spoken by 
Sylla's ghost, was writ after I had parted friends 
at the Devil Tavern. I drank well and had brave 
notions." I then stroll towards the Park. I bow 
to the fashionables, I am seen along incomparable 
Piccadilly. It is grand. But meantime I am 
thinking only of that penny postage stamp. I try 
to recall all that I ever heard about penny postage 
stamps. Let me see ? There is Mr. So-and-so the 
inventor, there is the early opposition, the first 
postal legislation, then the way stamps are made, 
putting the holes in the paper ; the gum on the 
back ; the printing all these details come back to 
me, then a paragraph or two about present postal 
laws ; a few examples of the crude drolleries of the 
official postal guide perhaps as a conclusion, some- 
thing about the crying need for cheaper Postal 
rates. I think of all the circumstances as I stroll 
back along Pall Mall. I might go to the British 
Museum and grub up a lot of musty facts, but 
that would be unworthy of a great leader writer, 
you may well understand that. And then comes 
the writing. Ah ! here is where I earn my money. 
1 repair to my club. I order out my ink and 
paper. I go to my room. I close the door. I am 
undisturbed for an hour. My pen moves. Ideas 
flow. The leader on the penny postage stamp is 
being evolved. Three great meaty, solid para- 
graphs each one-third of a column that is the con- 
summation to be wished. My ideas flow fast and 
free. Suddenly some one knocks at the door. Two 
hours have fled. How time goes! It is an eld 
friend. We are to eat a little dinner at the Cafe 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 33 

Royal and drop into the Alhambra for the New 
ballet. I touch the button, my messenger appears. 
The leader is despatched to 141, Fleet Street, in 
the Parish of St. Bride, and off we go arm in arm. 
After the shower the sunshine. Now for the en- 
joyment of that paradise of cigar ashes, bottles, 
corks, ballet, and those countless circumstances of 
gaiety and relaxation known only to those who are 
indwellers in the magic circles of London's Literary 
Bohemia. "Is it not delightful, boys?" . . and 
the reply would be, " Superb." ' " 

This is the most lifelike pen picture of one clever 
brilliant journalist by another that I have ever 
read. It cannot be improved upon. There are not 
many of his kind about now. Willie was always so 
delightfully decorative. He could do nothing until 
it had been well flowered with blooms of speech. 

The last time I really saw him to speak to was 
at the Adelaide Gallery. I sat with an old friend 
now dead who was on the eve of his second mar- 
riage. Willie and the friend had quarrelled, so I 
thought that as a school-fellow of both I might 
secure another guest for the morning's ceremony. 
But Willie would hear of no possible rapproche- 
ment. " My dear James much as I sincerely 
appreciate your ambassadorial kindness of heart, 
there are certain circumstances which will ever 
prevent diplomatic relations being re-opened with 
your unpleasant friend and my equally unpleasant 
enemy. The orange blossoms, the unnecessary 
shower of beautiful white rice, the not very elegant 
slipper, may all follow yonder person to the happi- 
ness which he little deserves, but I shall not be a 
contributory unless certain published apologies are 
foixueoming which I know would be impossible." 

i am not quite so certain that Willie was not in 
the right ; the particular umbrage was a journalistic 
reference to Willie's mother, Lady Wilde, a fiery, 
but excellent poetess of the Young Ireland school, 
who wrote and was well known as " Speranza." 

It is only right to say here that Lady Wilde 
always had a premonitory confidence in Oscar's 
B 



34 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

superiority as against that of the elder brother. 
Visiting them one day at their house in Merrion 
Square, the late George Henry Moore father of 
George Moore an earnest politician in the 'Fifties 
and 'Sixties, enquired of the mother what she 
thought of the two boys' prospects. "Oh! " said 
Lady Wilde, " Willie is all right, but as for Oscar, 
he will turn out something wonderful," and she 
preserved this optimistic confidence right through 
to the very end. 

The Wilde family were both clever and eccentric. 
The mother of Oscar and Willie cut a most weird, 
yet interesting figure in Society, and had very great 
literary attributes which were no doubt inherited 
by her sons. Oscar's theatrical " posing " was dis- 
tinctly a maternal inheritance, for her white pow- 
dered blue-black head was invariably crossed with 
a laurel wreath, and her bosom and dress over- 
decorated with a mass of more or less cheap, but 
invariably artistic jewellery. In her literary efforts 
she was one of a trio of female poets who sub- 
scribed weekly ebullitions of patriotic prose and 
verse to " The Nation." The three noms de plume 
were " Mary," " Eva," and " Speranza " the 
latter as I have said being Oscar Wilde's mother. 
What a surrounding of grief came over the three 
writers. " Mary," a Miss Browning, fell in love 
with a young Ireland factionist he flew from 
arrest for safety to America and she died of a 
broken heart in a convent; "Eva," a Miss Kelly, 
became engaged to a young student who was 
" transported " (i.e. sent to Australia as a felon 
it was not till later on that " transportation " was 
abolished) for ten years for seditious poetry. On 
condition that he would not plead guilty, for which 
he was promised a free pardon, she promised " to 
wait," and she did marrying him two days after 
his arrival, twenty years later, at Kingstown, when 
he had finished his sentence. 

The fate of poor Oscar, " Speranza 's " younger 
son well, let us draw a curtain over a misguided 
but never-to-be-forgotten genius. 

His mother, Lady W T ilde, was a Miss Ellgee 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 35 

sister of a New Orleans Judge and daughter of a 
Wexford parson, and in addition to her " Speranza " 
signature she had a failing for inditing letters on 
political subjects to the papers and signed " John 
Fanshawe Ellis." Gavan Duffy afterwards Sir 
Charles Gavan Duffy, and one of our Premiers in 
Australia, the then Editor of " The Nation " was 
indicted and convicted a conviction which was 
afterwards quashed for " high treason " in pub- 
lishing one of " Speranza's " pieces of verse. When 
the prosecuting counsel read the poem aloud there 
was a horrible deathly sympathetic silence through 
the Court in Green Street, Dublin, only broken by 
some female sobbing and an emotional move in the 
public gallery, as an almost fainting woman cried, 
" I alone am the culprit." It was " Speranza " who 
spoke. 

Reading in " The Nation " of the fast decimation 
in the Irish National ranks, Lady Wilde good 
journalist as she was, immediately rang in with a 
long, up-to-date " rally to arms," of which I may 
be personally excused in quoting the first stanza : 

" Has the line of the patriots ended, 

The race of the heroes failed, 
That the bow of the mighty unheeded 

Falls back from the hand of the quailed ? 
Or do graves lie too thick in the grass 
For the chariot of progress to pass ? " 

And to-day is 1912. And the " Chariot of pro- 
gress " is still trying to pass for Ireland. And the 
Home Rule millennium is time will show ; but the 
Irish outlook is brighter, the sunburst is less 
clouded, and the harvest of " graves may fructify 
into the fruit of a people's desire." 

Sir William Wilde, father of Oscar and Willie, 
had a rough, but ready wit, and he was very good 
to the poor. Once an old apple-woman called on 
him during his dinner-hour, and the following dia- 
logue took place : 

" Oh, Sir William, it's meself that can't see a 
' stim,' " (" stim " is the smallest possible particle 
in Irish talk), " an' they tould me 'twas yerself 



36 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

could give me back mi eyesight," and she squatted 
her shrivelled form in the specialist's best arm- 
chair. 

"Damn it, woman!" said the great oculist, 
what time he bared the pupil of one of her eyes, 
" what age are ye? " 

"Oh! Sir William, I won't be after tellin' you 
a lie, but come next Michaelmas oi'm ninety- 
five." 

" Good God, woman ! go home and go down on 
your marrow bones and thank the Lord you're 
alive at all. Who the devil wants to see anything 
at ninety-five? " 

While I am " on " the Wilde family, I may 
mention " The Poet and the Puppets," a clever 
burlesque on Oscar Wilde's " Lady Windermere's 
Fan," written by Charles Brookfield and myself, 
which was the introductory idea of the musical 
comedy craze. It was intimated to us that Wilde 
objected "to being caricatured." Oh, what hypoc- 
risy! We, on the other hand, knowing Wilde's 
love of reclame, were not averse to a little our- 
selves. We were " out " for publicity, so we laid 
ourselves bare to be leg-pulled. Some authority 
had just disclosed the fact that the real Wilde name 
was " O'Flaherty," so Brookfield, Charlie Haw- 
trey and the present writer sat down in my rooms 
in Shaftesbury Avenue to arrange the opening bars 
to a musical paraphrase of the tune of " St. Pat- 
rick's Day," entitled " That's what made Oscar 
O'Flaherty W T ilde." He got to hear of this, and 
his rage knew no bounds. He even appealed 
to E. S. Piggot, the Licenser of Plays, and insisted 
on our reading him the libretto. This we did, 
so while cigars burned, the poet puffed, and 
punctuated each page as it was read with such 
praises as " Delightful ! " " Charming, my eld 
friends! " (His calling Brookfield "old friend" 
was touching.) " It's exquisite! " etc., etc. As he 
showed us to the door he just gave us this parting 
shot : "I feel, however, that I have been well 
Brookfield, what is the word? what is the thing 
you call it in your delightfully epigrammatic Stage 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 37 

English. Eh? Oh yes! delightfully spoofed!" 
When the curtain went up on the first night we 
knew he had, and it was only fear and the 
Licenser which led us to temporize with the 
" Poet " before we publicly exposed him pulling 
"The Puppets." 

What Wilde really objected to was the inclusion 
of his own name, so to please the Licenser of Plays, 
Brookfield, my collaborateur, took out the word 
" Oscar " and substituted " neighbour," so that the 
Chorus of the Song on the first night read as 
follows : 

" They may bubble with jest at the way that I'm 

dressed, 

They may scoff at the length of my hair. 
They may say that I'm vain, overbearing, inane, 
And object to the flowers that 1 wear. 
They may laugh till they're ill, but the fact remains 

still, ' 

A fact I've proclaimed since a child, 
That's taken, my dears, nearly two thousand years 
To make Neighbour O'Flaherty's child." 

In the original the last two lines read : 

" That's taken, my dears, nearly two thousand years 
To make Oscar O'Flaherty Wilde." 

Although chronologically out of order, this may 
be a good opportunity, as I am mentioning Mr Pig- 
got and his office, to refer to the Licensing of Plays 
at a time when a Royal Commission enquiry has 
been discussing its merits and demerits. But 
several interesting incidents were not then referred 
to the following being of special interest. When 
the " can-can " was done in the 'Seventies at the 
"St. James'" by F. C. " Fairlie " Phillips in a 
version of " Vert-Vert," by the late Henry Her- 
man, the then Lord Chamberlain objected to the 
shortness of the frocks, and the general vulgar tone 
of the dance; so it occurred to the stage-manager, 
Richard Mansel, to put the girls on the next night 
in long black satin skirts, with pink fleshing tights 
and petticoats " By order of the Lord Chamber- 



3 8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

lain " ran a special line in the programme. This 
resulted in the withdrawal of the license, and a 
note to the management with special reference to 
Mansel : 

" I shall also leave such instructions with my 
successors as will prevent you ever holding a 
license in your own name again." 

Richard Mansel, whose real name was " Laudei- 
dale Maitland," and whose family claimed to be 
the rightful owners of the Earldom of Lauderdale, 
felt this " prohibit " keenly. He was a fine, big- 
framed Athlone Irishman, a splendid stage- 
manager, a beautiful French scholar, and with his 
brother William first introduced comic opera, 
Herve's " Chilperic," to this country at the 
Lyceum in 1871. Mansel's mother was a dis- 
tinguished Irish wit, who hunted astride, smoked 
cigars and told a good story. Mansel afterwards 
staged "La Fille du Tambour Major" at the Al- 
hambra, and was associated with many successes 
off and on but the fear of offending high quarters 
rather militated against his being engaged by 
serious managers. 

Many stories of the late Mr Piggot are told. 
Personally I was successful in getting that excellent 
successful play " The Gaiety Girl " ostracised and 
au mtme temps hugely advertised practically by 
my own inexperience. It was Jimmy Davis' 
(" Owen Hall ") first play. Now, Jimmy Davis, 
as editor of " The Bat," once had to keep an ap- 
pointment with Justice Hawkins, Lord Brampton, 
at the Old Bailey ; it may be mentioned, at the time 
of the interview, his Lordship was on the Bench. 
Poor old " Jimmy " was in another place. The 
editor, quite honourably, it must be admitted, re- 
fused to divulge the name of the writer of the 
complained-of article, and a temporary seclusion 
was the result I think as a first-class mis- 
demeanour. But later on, there was published in 
his paper another libel, and he stopped in France 
to avoid the consequences. Exiled there for some 
years a petition was got up to the libelled Lord 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 39 

Durham to withdraw the proceedings, and tHs 
document was presented at Newmarket in the pad- 
dock one day to Sir Henry Hawkins for his signa- 
ture with a sort of " return good for evil " behest 
by the organizer. Hawkins merely said, " I have 
not yet been given the name of the writer of the 
first libel," and walked on. One knows now that 
both are gone, that the great judge would have 
melted had Davis given in, but the old " Eat " 
Editor was true to the best traditions of the Press, 
and its respects for anonymity. 

Now in " The Gaiety Girl," the character of Mr. 
Justice " May " was a cross between the personality 
of Sir Francis Jeune and Lord Brampton (Sir 
Henry Hawkins), and certain lines, references and 
word paintings were meant to accentuate some 
domestic matters in the life of the hanging Judge. 
I thought this unfair, and I wrote Mr. Piggot to 
this effect, not in any sense vindictively, but just 
to emphasize the risk that public men would run 
if this sort of license were tolerated. Result : 
eleventh hour interference with the play, and 
alterations insisted on and carried out. I believe 
the Play Licenser telegraphed from Devon for Mr. 
George Edwardes, who was producing " The Gaiety 
Girl." The producer quickly obeyed the summons, 
fell in with the Licenser's views, and the result 
was the commencement of " Owen Hall's " fortune 
as a playwright. 

As for Jimmy Davis, when I told him years after- 
wards, he laughed heartily, and thanked me for the 
advertisement. 

Personally, I never had much to do with 
" Jimmy " Davis, but in late life found him one of 
the very best companions it was possible to find. 
He used to do many clever things, and one of the 
smartest was the device by which he escaped the 
supervisory authority of W. H. Smith & Sons' 
" Index Expurgatorius " department. One week 
he particularly wished to publish a " warm " story. 
The supervision given to these matters is very 
rigidly carried out, and at this time was in the 
hands of a Mr. White, whose name was held in 



40 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

reverence and mentioned with fear in every London 
newspaper office. The Editor of " The Bat " knew 
that this story would be followed by many a pro- 
test from the " unco guid," that Mr. White would 
interfere, order " The Bat " off the bookstalls and 
the circulation for that week ruined. 

At this time, the Right Hon. W. H. Smith was 
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and " An Open 
Letter " to the Chancellor appeared in the same 
issue facing the " warm " story, strongly condemn- 
ing the financial policy of the reigning Govern- 
ment. The result was exactly as " Jimmy " ex- 
pected. The particular issue of " The Bat " was 
banned, but on the Editor intimating to the Chan- 
cellor by letter that he thought it poor spite for a 
Minister to suppress " in his private commercial 
capacity " a newspaper that was " antagonistic to 
his political policy as a public man," the generous 
W. H. Smith (without of course reading " The 
Bat ") immediately telegraphed to the Strand and 
reinstated the offending organ on all the bookstalls 
of England. 



CHAPTER II 

More Fenianism The escape of James Stephens, 
the famous Head Centre Christmas turkey and plum- 
pudding outside the prison My father inside 
Baron Dowse Irish conspirators and South African 
"traitors" - James Stephens and "Dr. Jim" 
Chemist's boy to a monastery in Normandy Peter 
Burke, Editor of "Burke's Peerage" I start trans- 
lating French plays French and English seaside 
resorts A comparison " The National Theatre " 
agitation begins What Victor Hugo said to me 
Early comic opera days in Paris Emile Audran and 
his contracts the Basque peasants and their contracts 
Arthur Collins recruits " to fight the Boers " My 
first experience as a " Pianist-musical director " A 
" Commonwealth." 

INASMUCH as my poor father was more or less in- 
timately connected with the Fenian movement 
of the early 'Sixties, I do not think that it would 
bode any good to tell of many experiences which, 
taking place as they did, when I was but five or 
six years old, cannot be recorded with as much 
accuracy as a true chronicler would desire, and 
would not be too favourably viewed by the few 
living actors in one of the greatest social and poli- 
tical dramas which have ever been played on the 
stage of national politics. I will, however, give a 
reminiscence of an important political event to 
which my family was more or less a party in 1865, 
and which, except for a little decorative description, 
is true in substance and fact. 

Kingstown is about six miles from Dublin. My 
father was a Town Commissioner, a species of local 
dignity which gave him the prerogative of writing 



42 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

" T.C." after his name, and " I.O.U." in front of 
it. Kingstown is historical in its connection with 
early Feiiianism. Most of the conspirators lived 
there, many of the plots were hatched there, and 
some of the fugitives were hidden there. 

One night, to my mother's ntcer astonishment, 
my father announced his intention of going to Dub- 
lin, and, what was more amazing still, of remaining 
away the whole night. If there was any element 
of distrust in my poor mother's mind, it was dis- 
pelled when he announced his further intention of 
taking me with him. When I had been hauled out 
of bed, my father and I wended our way down the 
Forty-Foot Road toward the station. About half- 
way down he noticed two figures which seemed to 
be following us these on closer inspection turned 
out to be a couple of well-known detectives. We 
arrived at the station just in time to take our 
tickets and catch the last train to Dublin. 

Between Kingstown and Dublin the train stops 
six times, and not having had my proper rest, I, 
on entering the carriage, dozed off to sleep to be 
awakened a few minutes later, when my little body 
was dragged out through a door of the carriage, 
but on the opposite side. I would have cr.ied out 
had my father not clapped his hand over my mouth 
and kept it there till our train was well out of the 
station. 

That night, or rather morning, James Stephens, 
the prominent Fenian leader, was to be released 
from prison, collusion with the warder having 
already been obtained. (Stephens, with John 
O'Mahoney, founded the Fenian movement in 
1858.) 

The manner of this collusion has been more or 
less inaccurately told. The warder Byrne, who 
carried out the whole business, had a brother, a 
ticket-collector at Westland Row Station. Now, 
the working force of the movement lived at Kings- 
town, and what was easier than to palm off a note 
with your railway ticket, for the warder to visit 
his brother in his leisure, for the brother to hand 
a key to any sympathizer when taking his ticket 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 43 

for that key to be moulded and duplicates taken ? 
This was the scheme, and it succeeded. 

To alight from the train at Black rock was my 
father's idea of " doubling " on the two detectives 
who were on our track, for they had followed us 
into the train and went on to Dublin. My lather 
and I having given them the slip, we then got a 
cab and drove into Dublin by a circuitous route. 
There was lots of time 'twas then only twelve, 
and they did not " work " till three. 

Byrne the warder had another prison confederate 
named Breslin, and these two were able to arrange 
that on one of their rounds the door of Stephens' 
cell was to be left unlocked ; the Head Centre was 
to be led to the prison wall. At a certain hour two 
pebbles from the outside would indicate the readi- 
ness of the rescuing party, and the reply from 
Byrne and Breslin inside was a sod of grass thrown 
over the same wall. Stephens, with the aid of a 
rope, was then passed over into the welcome arms 
of his friends, which included my father. 

The next morning the whole country was 
aroused with the " alarming " intelligence of the 
escape of a great Fenian James Stephens, the 
famous Head Centre, who, I since learned, slept his 
first night out at our house, and a safe asylum 
found for him elsewhere later till, a few Sundays 
later, a small fishing smack at Malahide, outside 
Dublin, sailed for France with a cargo of three 
human freight, a " coachman," a " postillion," and 
a " footman," who assisted a " passenger " on to 
the deck and that passenger, whom they had 
"driven openly through the streets of Dublin, was 
James Stephens the famous Head Centre of the 
future " Irish Republic " whom all the forces and 
finances of the British Government could not catch. 

This was the reason for the early morning visit 
from the police referred to in the last chapter. Nine 
o'clock generally found us coming down to break- 
fast ; but some few weeks after the incident just 
mentioned, we were aroused by the shuffling of 
feet coming up the gravel path. My brother and 
I jumped out of bed and rushed to the window to 



44 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

find the whole house surrounded. The authorities 
had a warrant to search the house, which they did, 
finding nothing more incriminating than a few let- 
ters in Italian from an uncle of mine, Ferdinand 
Glover, who had been studying in Italy preparatory 
to joining the Pyne and Harrison Opera Company 
at Drury Lane. This correspondence they tri- 
umphantly carried off in the vain hope that they 
had found some treasonable documents in a cypher 
language. 

The following day my father was sent for by 
the local magistrate, a Mr. Dix, who requested him 
to sign a document of dutiful submission to the 
Throne, and " no more harbour the enemies of the 
Crown our vSovereigu Lady the Queen." 

(I may here mention that my father owned a large 
hall on his licensed premises, where meetings were 
held by the Irish Patriots, and in this building most 
of the functions of the party were held with closed 
doors.) 

My father refused; when he was politely given 
sufficient time to arrange his affairs, and, in com- 
pany with two detectives, proceeded under arrest 
to Mountjoy Prison, commonly called " Cease to 
do evil," where he was detained without trial of 
any kind " during Her Majesty's pleasure." He 
was not lonely there were eighty-four " refusers " 
in all. Drapers, builders, hotel-keepers, grocers, 
etc., they all declined to show " the white feather," 
and enforced seclusion was the only alternative. 

The next family move was to secure my father's 
release, if possible, to spend the approaching 
Christmas at home. All our endeavours failed, and 
I never shall forget that Christmas Day, when a 
heart-broken wife and two sons trundled up the 
Phibsborough Road to Mountjoy Prison on our own 
outside car. We had not much luggage, but, 
arrived at the gate, my mother was allowed to 
enter, carrying with her an already carved turkey, 
some cut ham, and a few delicacies, but no wine 
or carving utensil of any kind. We sat outside, 
my brother and I, on the car, eating our own din- 
ner, and every moment looking up at the now 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 45 

familiar window behind which a man and wife were 
trying to spend a merry Christmas we too young 
to be aware of the real inwardness of the whole 
movement. Of course, the " prisoners " in this 
movement were really only first-class " detenus." 
Absolutely no punishment whatsoever was awarded 
them, but like a later-on Coercion Act policy the 
Habeas Corpus Act was suspended to close in the 
principal " agitators " and so my father had to 
be " incarcerated." 

These interviews were short, and my poor mother 
often came out melting in tears. We drove home 
this Christmas Day, neither of us two boys realizing 
the important bearing that eventful time would 
have on our future lives, and, three days later, my 
mother having given the required undertaking (I 
think, to Baron Dowse in chambers), my father was 
released, after spending sixteen days in prison 
only to find that a bankruptcy petition against him 
had been allowed to go by default (a ruse on my 
mother's part to break up the entire surroundings) 
and we were all penniless. 

This escape of the famous Head Centre was the 
end of an agitation which commenced in the 'Fifties 
and which had for its sponsors, in the constitu- 
tional sense, many strong Irishmen amongst them, 
Charles Gavan Duffy and George Henry Moore 
the latter the father of George Moore, the novelist. 
George Henry Moore was an M.P. ; he was un- 
seated in 1857, and when Sadleir, the swindling 
bank manager and M.P., fled the country and 
was expelled from the House of Commons, Moore 
proteged another enthusiast, the O'Donohue, and 
got him elected for Tipperary. 

vStephens and others had started a newspaper 
called the " Irish People," and it was the suppres- 
sion of this organ and the breaking up of the pro- 
paganda that it carried on which led to the incidents 
just related. Of course, the Fenian movement had 
made not only strong headway in Ireland, but also 
in the English towns where the Irish population 
predominated ; but a series of comic-opera battles 
and insurrections, certain traitorism among its less 



46 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

educated " heads," and a misguided idea of what 
really was the end in view over a real poverty of 
funds all tended to failure. But with all its 
faults, Mr. Gladstone himself admitted that it was 
only since " the appearance of Fenianism that the 
mind of this country (i.e. England) has been greatly 
turned to the consideration of Irish affairs." If 
Mr. Gladstone were alive now, July, 1912, what 
would he not have said ? 

The midnight meetings, the secret happenings, 
the almost Boucicaultian regime of these times 
often worried my poor mother, who deliberately 
and perhaps advisedly, tore up and destroyed on 
arrival every agenda, notice of meeting or other 
incriminating document of this troublesome period, 
which was sent to my father. I say " Boucicaul- 
tian " because some of the well-known Irish 
dramatist's " incidents " were strongly reminiscent 
of the real things, and often " anticipatory," show- 
ing that even the stage was resorted to for some 
line of campaign. 

But one incident niy father told me is rather 
quaint, and quite in the line of the turning tower 
in " The Shaughraun " ; in fact, although not quite 
similar, there is no doubt that Dion Boucicault had 
this " escapade " in his mind at the time he wrote 
"The Shaughraun." My father and some others 
had made up their minds to "cover" a poor 
Fenian boy who was chased on a warrant. He was 
a bit of a " steeplejack " by profession, and hid in 
the very Church the steeple of which he knew so 
well from professional acquaintance. Pursued to 
the very confessional box in which he was hiding, 
he slipped through the sacristy and started mount- 
ing the steeple the Royal Irish Constabulary offi- 
cers following him on the other side, but the 
conically shaped steeple sheltered the professional 
climber, and quick as the two policemen followed 
on one side the " bhoy " slowly dropped on the 
other side niche to niche, and as the cone widened 
as he descended and covered him he was enabled 
to get away quite unharmed. 
In a later period an incident occurred which 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 47 

showed how the real revolutionary spirit had crept 
into every department of even the public service. 

A Dublin telegraph clerk named was a 

Nationalist to the backbone, and when wholesale 
arrests of Irish members were prevalent, it was a 
mystery for a long time as to how the " wanted " 
patriots got to know some time before Dublin 
Castle that orders were given for their immediate 
arrest they thus securing sufficient time to come 
to England. Now this young patriot (I grant you 
against Post Office regulations) opined that the 
cause of Ireland would not be hurt by the convey- 
ance of this early information, and for a very long 
time the State was baffled. For the very moment 
that a telegraphic order to arrest arrived at Dublin 
Castle the intended prisoner, no matter who he 
may have been, had " just sailed for England." 

It so happened, however, that a telegraph boy 
one day at a big meeting in the Dublin City Hall, 
walked up to the wrong person and said " Mr. Par- 
nell, I believe," and the wrong person opened the 
telegram, gave the show away, and the telegraph 
clerk paid the penalty of his patriotism, and went 
"to prison according to Post Office regulations. 

I regretted this incident very much. I knew the 
young fellow well. In the daytime he was em- 
ployed as a telegraph superintendent at the Dublin 
General Post Office, and at night he wanted to be 
and really was an operatic impresario. He en- 
gaged big artists, like Tietjens, Sinico, etc., and 
with his " Concert Direction " did many a series 
at the Antient Concert Rooms and Rotunda in 
Dublin. 

The following chestnut is attributed to the judi- 
cially human Baron Dowse, who once charged a 
jury in a libel action where the defence was a 
printer's error : " Jintlemin iv th' Joory, the 
diffince in this case is th'owld wun iv a printer's 
error. I well remimber once makin' a political 
speech in Cork and quoting that old saying, 
' Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of 
Cathay,' and what was my astonishment to read in 
the ' Cork Constitution ' the next morning that I 



48 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

had said ' Better fifty years of tight-rope than a 
circus in Bombay! ' Now, jintlemin, you know 
the value iv a printer's error." 

In reference to the escape of James Stephens in 
my friend F. M. Bussy's interesting book, " Irish 
Conspiracies," Bussy is decorative, inaccurate and 
beautifully vague. Stephens, I repeat, was housed 
the night after his escape by my father at Kings- 
town, and also by Frank Morgan, the Dublin Cor- 
poration solicitor. The policeman Mallon's account 
of the matter is purely " I-was-told-by-the-post- 
man's-sister " sort of history. 

At this moment a movement is on foot to erect 
a statue to Stephens, and I hope I shall be able to 
join in its success. Naturally, the usual sort of 
criticism will be hurled at the promoters of the 
scheme, but I am old enough to have stood on the 
steps of Bow Street and seen Sir Starr Jameson 
(Dr. Jim), and Col. M. Rhodes (a brother of Cecil 
Rhodes) arraigned as traitors and ultimately sent 
to terms of imprisonment for traitorous arm-bearing 
against the British Government, and now we make 
them baronets and heroes, Prime Ministers and 
Governors of Colonies. James Stephens did no 
more and no less, and he had real patriotism for his 
motive and not Stock Exchange "graft." 

My father, as I have previously said, was more 
or less apathetic as to my future career, and up to 
a certain point actually resented any interference 
which in his mind might have been made to im- 
prove its prospects. It came about, therefore, that 
after wasting three years of the very best of my life 
selling senna and salts, I arrived home one night 
and announced my intention to my grandfather of 
"chucking it." My father, being away on one of 
his bi-weekly trips in the West of Ireland, my 
mother was consulted on the subject, and, with her 
consent, I found myself on the following morning 
on the road to London, the day after that on the 
road to Caen in Normandy, and the morning 
after that settled down at a little village called 
Vieux, twelve miles outside the Normandy town. 

All the time I was accompanied by my grand 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 49 

paternal angel, whose sole object was to end the 
insecurity and unprofitableness of my earlier exis- 
tence and start me afresh under circumstances 
which ensured my acquiring a knowledge of French 
and other languages. At Vieux I stayed some 
time with some friends, whom we used to know in 
Dublin, an M. Dupaigne ; but whether it was that I 
found the place too slow or they found me too 
fast I know not; the end of it being that I was 
removed to a monastery in the town of Caen, there 
to stay until further orders. My arrival was the 
day of the annual breaking up for the summer holi- 
days. I must at once begin by saying that I was 
taken in under protest. It was argued that as 
there were to be no school-studies during the holi- 
days, it would be useless for me to remain ; but my 
old benefactor was equal to any little emergency of 
that sort, and pointed out that a sort of colloquial 
knowledge of French was perhaps the only object 
of my Normandy visit ; so I was allowed to remain, 
and for three full months I was consigned to the 
anxious care of sixteen monks. 

My only Caen companion, located at the neigh- 
bouring Lycee, was a similar summer recluse, a 
son of Sir Bernard Burke, Peter Burke, now the 
Editor of " Burke's Peerage." " Au commence- 
ment " we are now learning French allow me to 
say that no matter where I go or what I do to the 
end of my days, I shall ever remember the kind- 
ness of those kind brothers. Of course, they did 
not know that they were giving me an education 
which in future years would be turned to the trans- 
lation of naughty French plays, a more than liberal 
knowledge of Zola's books, or the reading of Rabe- 
laisian records to find fit subjects for London ballet 
librettos : but from the first day to the last there 
was never anything but the greatest kindness 
shown me and a thorough consideration exhibited 
for my lonely position. The fact that I was Irish 
and that I played the organ did nothing to diminish 
that friendly feeling, and the last day of my visit 
was looked upon by me as one of the most miser- 
able in my existence. Of course, arriving at suck 



50 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

a peculiar time of the year, I managed to fall in 
for all the holiday-making of these frugal folk, and 
when I think of the long excursions we made into 
the neighbouring country, and the glorious feasts 
we made on bread and cheese and cider, I long tor 
the whole time over again, and wonder that our 
holiday-seeking public do not go to the trouble of 
finding these happ}^ little resorts, which are un- 
fettered by the vulgarities of the common tripper, 
and unknown to the hanger-on-billiard sharp and 
seaside-lounger brigade, not to mention the attrac- 
tion of a rational holiday, with every kind of 
amusement, which can be had for about two pounds 
a week. 

From Caen I migrated to Paris, and studied the 
violin for a period under a master, adding to my 
meagre income by a little journalism for such Eng- 
lish or Irish papers as would take my " stuff." 
With an authority for a little London illustrated 
paper in Catherine Street, " The Entr'acte " 
(" L'Entr'acte " sounded well in French ears) I 
managed to secure an " Open sesame " to many a 
theatre, opera-house and concert. In this wise I 
determined to make a " coup," or as it is now 
called in Americauese, a " stunt," and so I came 
in touch with no less a person than Victor Hugo. 

I have no wish, under any circumstances what- 
ever, that any undue importance should be "placed 
upon this interview with one of the greatest poets 
of last centuiy, but it's a landmark in one's life, 
so I will describe it. 

The manner in which I met Victor Hugo was 
rather peculiar. A Miss Pfeiffer in the year 1879 
wrote a letter to the " Daily News " on the ques- 
tion of a State-subventioned Theatre, and it is 
worthy of note that as I am writing now in the 
year 1912, people are still writing to the " Daily 
News " and other papers on the same subject. But 
at that time I was living in Paris and doing re- 
markably well, thank you, on the sum of sixteen 
shillings a week, a matter of about twenty francs. 
Therefore, if I wanted to indulge in any culinary 
luxury, holiday extravagance, or other embellish- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 51 

merit of my usual routine, it was absolutely neces- 
sary for me to look to other sources for the 
" wherewithal." Journalism, as I mentioned before, 
responded to my call, and having- for the purpose a 
free admission to the Paris theatres, I got the offi- 
cial appointment as the " sole Paris correspondent " 
to the London illustrated theatrical weekly referred 
to, at the enormous emolument of nothing a year, 
then edited and owned by my old friend, the late 
\V. H. Coombes. 

MioS Pfeiffer's letter gave me the idea of inter- 
viewing Victor Hugo on the question of State- 
aided theatres, obtaining his views as to how they 
operated in France, and trying to get him to com- 
mit himself to some opinion as to how he thought 
they would work in England. Access to the great 
man was more or less easy, if one knew how to go 
about it, but if one didn't, a little subterfuge was 
necessary, and with the knowledge that Victor 
Hugo had somewhat sympathized with the Fenian 
Movement in Ireland, I thought I would at least 
make some good out of an agitation which had so 
much interested him. Under these circumstances 
I approached the great man. I wrote and told him 
I was an Irishman, that I was exiled, that my 
father and mother were too poor to keep me, that 
liis sympathies I had noticed in all his writings 
were for " the down-trodden country " (good touch 
this). I compared his exile in England and Jersey 
to the exile of my dear father in America. I ap- 
pealed to him as a poor heart-broken Hibernian 
nomad, and I asked him to assist me, to do me a 
slight favour, and explain a matter which h.ad 
arisen in discussion in London journalistic circles 
in reference to National Drama in England and the 
theatre in general. 

Through the kindness of Mr. Massey, a relative 
of Redan Massey, the former a Paris correspondent 
of the Dublin " Freeman's Journal," I managed to 
obtain Hugo's address, which was 230, Avenue 
D'Eylau, now the Avenue Victor Hugo. Follow- 
ing on my first letter, which was thrown out as 
a feeler, I made several visits to the house and 



52 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

carried on a conversation in worse French than 
my education permitted me, so as to make myself 
sufficiently misunderstood by the servants, in 
order to gain a further introduction to the great 
man. Right in the foreground of all my argument 
I kept up the spirit of the " pauvre Irlandais," and 
this, I should think, was the " Open sesame " to 
the whole affair. I received a letter to call, which 
I did, and was ushered into the Poet's large dark 
oak sitting-room with its huge log fires burning; 
I could hear the clash of knives and forks in the 
adjoining apartment which told me dinner was 
"on," and 1 sat for one solid hour, afraid to move, 
until at last the large curtains were drawn and the 
noble, white-haired man appeared. He was accom- 
panied, as was his wont on these occasions, by M. 
Louis Blanc. It is not my purpose to enter into 
any elongation of the interview beyond saying that 
the generous old man walked up to me, shook me 
cordially by the hand, sympathized with me 
thoroughly, asking what he could do for me and 
entered into conversation. 

His views on a National Theatre or a Comedie 
Francaise in London were as follows : " From the 
standpoint of Art there is absolutely no doubt >mt 
that a Comedie Anglaise in London would do a 
great deal for native art, but I am afraid that the 
conditions under which the Drama pursues its way 
in your Metropolis, the conditions under which 
your poets and authors write their works, the con- 
ditions under which they are performed, and the 
general atmosphere of irresponsibility under which 
the average Briton patronizes all amusements, and 
his theatres in particular, render it almost impos- 
sible that the scheme about which you have written 
me could be successfully realized. More than this, 
sir, I do not feel disposed at this late hour of the 
evening to say, and if these remarks of mine tan 
be of any use to you to write over to your country, 
so long as you do not misconstrue my meaning, 
you are welcome." I made a note at the time of 
these remarks which I may say are perfectly non- 
committal. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 53 

He then bowed me gently out, and not having 
the necessary 'bus fare back, I wended my way 
past the Arc de Triomphe, down the Champs 
Elysces, that night thickly carpeted with snow, 
and hurried me home. I don't think there is any- 
thing wonderful in this interview, but I may be 
allowed to emphasize the point that Victor Hugo 
pointed out in 1879 that a National Theatre was 
impossible in this country, and here are we in 1912,. 
thirty years later, no nearer such a desideratum. 

For the rest of my stay in Paris, I do not think 
I did anything of sufficient importance to find 
record in these pages. I was present at the first 
evening of "La Fille du Tambour Major," Offen- 
bach's one-hundredth work, and I think one of his 
greatest operas (spoiled in this country by being 
produced in too large a theatre, the Alhambra) 
and I remember the cry of the French pittites on 
the first night, when they started the beautiful 
waltz in the overture, " C'est lui, c'est lui, c'est 
bien lui." I was also at the first night of 
" Olivette " at the old " Bouffes Parisiennes," and 
I had a great deal to do at the time with the imme- 
diate importation of these two operas into England. 

" Olivette " was, you may remember, the first 
introduction of Audran to this country, who later 
on took England by surprise in "La Mascotte,'" 
and though he failed in the " Grand Mogul,'' he 
capped them all in "La Poupee." He was a thin, 
anaemic, little weak man, with an eternal stom- 
achic complaint. He came over here and generally 
stood on the stage at rehearsals and refused tc 
allow any interpolation in his score. A song being 
required for Father Maxim in "La Poupee " he- 
consented to one being manufactured out of the 
waste melodies of the chorus work and any other 
strains from any other opera of his own composi- 
tion. In this way the great Monk's Song was in- 
cubated, making the hit of the night. In the 
original opera the chorus of the " Jovial Monk " 
was a drunken chorus of intoxicated clerics. This 
was altered ! Mr. Lowenfeld, the manager of the 
theatre, asked him to come over to conduct for the 



,54 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

5ooth night. He did so, but made it a sine qua 
non that a pound of grapes, a box of chocolates, 
and a pint of milk should be placed in his bedroom 
every night he was in England. This was actually 
inserted as a clause in his contract. 

These special contract provisions often take 
humorous turns. During the South African War, 
3Mr. Arthur Collins of Drury Lane wanted some 
.giants for the Druiy Lane pantomime, and reading 
that the fanners in the Basque country wintered 
on stilts owing to the treacherous marshy land, he 
made his way there with the author, Mr. Arthur 
.Sturgess, and Attilio Comelli, the designer. After 
.great trouble he persuaded twelve of the peasants 
to come to London for the three months' pantomime 
season, the English Drury Lane trio finding them- 
.selves described in " Le Matin " as " Un Syndicat 
Anglais qui a essay er recruiter des Francais d'allcr 
in Afrique Slid pour prcndre armes centre les 
Boers." Of course this brought about a serious 
diplomatic situation. ]e ne pense pas, but all went 
well till the contract was received by the Basqual 
-actors. They did not mind travelling third-class, 
they did not mind smoky brouillardesque London 
for three months, they did not even object to leav- 
ing their wives and sweethearts ; but a sine qua non 
as strong as the laws of the Medes and Persians 
was that they should have placed in their rooms 
in their Soho hotel every morning for breakfast at 
S a.m. " half a pound of Gruyere cheese and a 
bottle of claret." Fancy such a matutinal feast. 

Returning to my own career. On my arrival 
from Paris in 1880 I found myself stranded in Lon- 
don, with the intimation that my regal allowance 
of twenty shillings was to be discontinued, and 
that I was to consider myself in the position of 
"paddling my own canoe." Under conditions 
which to me at the moment appeared somewhat 
lordly, I answered an advertisement for a pianist 
in the " Era," was successful, joined a woman- 
magician entertainment as solo pianist at the 
enormous salary at thirty-five shillings a week, 
and commenced my life at Southampton. The 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 55 

magician-lady was a so-called mesmerist, who per- 
iormed all sorts of ridiculous feats to which I was 
to " vamp " appropriate music. It did not require 
much intelligence when two gentlemen were giving 
a demonstration of the noble art of self-defence 
while under the influence of the " occult " science, 
to vamp, " We don't want to fight, but by Jingo 
if we do"; or when a gentleman was giving t.n 
up-to-date imitation of the dance attributed to St. 
Vitus, to play, "See me dance the Polka"; nor 
when a lady floated about in the belief that she was 
" flying " was it out of the way to suggest, " I 
would I were a bird " ; although mistakes might 
arise, and did arise, for in a moment of temporary 
aberration it often happened that when the bird- 
lady was flying about in the air (there were no 
aeroplanes in those days), the tune I played was 
the old one of " When the pigs begin to fly " a 
topical ditty with this title was popular at the 
time. 

To my humorous mind, this sort of thing was 
second nature. So it came about that I, who had 
Klondyked a possible millionaire's income by the 
calculation of innumerable years at thirty-five shil- 
lings a week, found myself at the end of the second 
week of my engagement incontinently thrown into 
the street, told that I was " no good," that my en- 
gagement " had finished," and that I would have 
the extreme honour of paying my own railway 
fare back to London. These were not the actual 
words used, but that is what it all amounted to, 
for the exact difference of opinion which so rudely 
interrupted my Utopian ideas was the fact that I 
hadn't cleaned my own boots. This, of course, was 
only a ruse, and an absence of candour prevented 
them telling me I was no good as a matter of fact 
I don't think I was much ; but after everything is 
said and done, when one has been to some of the 
finest colleges in Ireland, given a big musical edu- 
cation, sent to a swell " pension " in France to 
the best masters in Paris, and speaks French like 
a native, it is rather hard to be told that you 
haven't sufficient intelligence to play the piano to 



56 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

a dancing Dervish at a magician's entertainment 
in a small English village, or to suggest the appro- 
priate music for a local navvy swallowing a pint 
of paraffin oil and all for 55. nd. a night. I did 
not mind being told my piano-playing was not 
" polished," but I drew the line at a similar refer- 
ence to my boots. I protested ; thus I was incon- 
tinently dismissed. 

Now it so happened that in that town, at a neigh- 
bouring music-hall, were " The Three Sisters Lor- 
raine," and one of these charming ladies had got 
it into her head that I was very much like the 
other sister, so much so that they called me 
" Brother." (Later on I called them other things, 
but that is another story.) The three sisters, with 
the aid of two acrobats, a sworcl-swallower and 
a man-fish, formed themselves into a company- 
promoting scheme, and went to the neighbouring 
Portsmouth for a week, asking me if I would join 
them. The position placed itself before me thus : 
cash in hand ios., in P.O. Savings Bank 55., fare 
to London 8s. Possibilities in London, nothing. 
Possibilities in Portsmouth, everything. I need not 
detail the matter, but to Portsmouth we went and 
we made a big failure there. The acrobats bolted, 
the man-fish accepted an engagement at the local 
music-hall with the sword swallower, the three 
Sisters returned to London, and I was told that 
the whole thing was a Commonwealth and asked 
to take twelve shillings or nothing. An early ac- 
quaintance with Mr. Euclid having familiarized me 
with the difference between twelve shillings and 
nothing, I accepted the twelve shillings ; but I had 
made one condition : that whatever position I occu- 
pied during the week's Commonwealth, whether it 
was playing the piano, selling programmes, or 
dressing the three acrobats I made it a sine qua 
non that I should be described on all the bills as a 
full-blown "Musical Director." Strange though it 
may seem, that was the happiest move of all, be- 
cause it influenced my entire career. 



CHAPTER III 

I join Charles Collette Theatrical Digs George 
Moore's " Mummer's Life " how it was written The 
Novelty (Kingsway) Theatre Financing the show 
The ex-convict moneylender with the gouged-out eye 
Insuring the backer's life for salaries At the Old 
Bailey Teddy Solomon the Guards' burlesque 
Keeping the " Ladies of the Chorus " respectable 
" The Mahdi " deletes my chorus I compose, con- 
duct, sing, dance and stage-manage for fifty shillings 
a week How H.R.H. the Prince of Wales refused to 
be smuggled into the theatre Lord Alfred Paget and 
the music-librarian Some musical discoveries. 

I CAME straight to London, just in time to read 
that the Theatre Royal, Dublin, had been de- 
stroyed by fire. This gave me a rather melancholy 
twinge, for a great deal of my early recollections, 
as I have recounted, were associated with the old 
house in Hawkins Street the scene of the early 
struggles of Henry Irving, J. L. Toole, the Rig- 
nolds, T. C. King, Barney Williams, Barry Sulli- 
van, and many famous people. These were all giants. 
Where are their prototypes now ? Is the motor-car 
Maida-Vale-maisouetted manager of the twentieth 
century a greater artist ? One pauses for reply. 

The Theatre Royal had prospered more and more 
every year under the Gunns until this catastrophe, 
the one regrettable fatality being the death of the 
manager, Frank Egerton, who, true to his post, 
was killed trying to save his master's property. 
Mrs. Egerton was a Miss Glover, remotely con- 
nected with our family, and the incident cast a 
gloom over everything theatrical in Dublin for 
some time to come. 

57 



5 S JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

On the morning referred to, when I arrived from 
Portsmouth, I saw the whole world and fifteen shil- 
lings before me, but I had possessed myself of half- 
a-dozen bills on which my name was paraded as 
"Musical Director," and with these in hand I 
immediately proceeded to write for free admissions 
to the various London theatres. In the ordinary 
course I directed one of these requests to Mr. W. 
H. Griffiths, at that time acting manager of the 
" Old Dusthole " in Tottenham Court Road, where 
that great histrione Miss Genevieve Ward was 
playing in " Forget-Me-Not." Imagine my siir- 
prise, not to mention my joy, on receiving the 
following letter back : 

DEAU SIR, 

If you are a Musical Director, and would 
like an engagement, come down here to-niorrow 
night. Yours truly, 

W. H. GRIFFITHS. 

I went, I saw, I conquered. I walked out with 
an engagement in Mr Charles Collette's burlesque 
company, at the then to me handsome emolument 
of 2 per week. The company, at that time, con- 
stituted : Mr. Charles Collette who married a 
sister of Lady Bancroft, Mr. Lionel Rignold, Mr 
H. E. Marston whose father was Governor of 
Richmond Prison, Dublin, Mr. Charles Langley, 
Miss Katie Ryan, Miss Lottie Harcourt, and many 
others but only the first two are still in the land 
of the living. 

These touring experiences often lead to many 
anecdotes, which enliven the hours of travelling 
and help to pass off many a weary hour of waiting. 
It was of a Scotch manager, too well known for his 
protection of the " bawbee," that we used to tell a 
good story. He came, saw and admired a panto- 
mime in which my friend Tom Murray, an Ameri- 
can comedian, had made a huge success. A note 
sent round to Murray conveyed the intelligence 
that the Scotch manager would like to interview 
Turn at his hotel " i' the morn, ye ken." "Now 
don't be a fool," cried his dressing-room comrades, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 5^ 

"he's Scotch and sure to beat you down leave a 
margin for retreat, ask a good salary don't make 
yourself cheap, etc." 

In the morning, Murray, with these admonitions- 
ringing in his ears, duly presented himself at the 
hotel, and was ushered into the drawing-room; 
there awaiting him he found the Scotch manager 
whose wife all the time sat in the neighbouring; 
bow window knitting crochet. The point of view 
was soon explained. Murray's performance the 
previous evening had been " much admired " the 
manager " might require his services " only 
" might " " for the following Christmas," and if 
he did so, " what were the lowest terms that he 
thought he could accept? " Murray pulled himself 
together visioned in his mind the dressing-room 
admonitions of the previous evening and said, 

" Well, Mr. A , I am afraid that the lowest fee 

I could take for next year would be ^200 a week." 
The man of Heatherland burst into a huge par- 
oxysm of laughter, he shouted his sides out with 
merriment, then turning to the bow window to his 
wife exclaimed, " Carrie, did ye hear that did ye 
hear it Mr. Murray wants two hundred pounds 
a week Carrie, he's funnier off the stage than he 
is on." 

During these touring days one met many curi- 
osities of men, modes and manners. It is told of the 
late Mr. Wyndham the father of the present living 
and popular F. W. Wyndham that he wrote to a 
well-known comedian for his lowest terms for 
Christmas. These were not days of ^200 comedians 
with two gags and a restaurant clientele of bibu- 
lous bookmakers and corpulent coryphees ; soon the 
reply came back, " My lowest terms for Christmas, 
are four pounds per week," so the astonished 
manager replied : 

DEAR SIR, 

Your terms to hand. I accept, as you 
are the first comedian who has ever made me laugh. 

Yours truly, 

R. H. WYNDHAM. 



60 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

I myself have had many experiences of these 
" sock and buskin " humours when touring. I 
was conducting once at Oldham (Owdham) near 
Manchester, and could not get the local orchestra 
to play a clog dance to time. It must be remem- 
Lered that the audiences of all these Lancashire and 
Yorkshire towns are themselves expert dancers. 
This caused considerable inconvenience to the 
dancer, whose evident discomfort was perceptible 
to the gallery. In a sudden silence, laughter saved 
the situation with this impromptu remark from the 
impatient gods : " Hand oop, lads, fur better 
band." 

In the same town Fannie Leslie, one of London's 
greatest " Principal Boy " stars, was late, and 
asked me to go into the orchestra and kill time by 
looking round and admiring the audience. This I 
did for five minutes, when a voice came from the 
humorous Olympian heights, " Play oop, beggar 
wi' long nose ! " 

Another little joke is that of the manager who 
toured the towns with spouses who had not always 
been provided with marriage certificates. Arrived 
at a Northern town once, this Roscian Lothario 
drove up to his old-time apartments, knocked at 
the door, and jumping out of the cab helped his 
" Missis " to the door. " Ah, Mrs Boniface, here 
we are again, you know the wife, don't you? My 
dear, you remember Mrs Boniface? " By this time 
the good lady of the house had automatically em- 
braced the "Missis," but exclaimed, "Eh! lady, 
how tha's changed." "What's that?" said the 
actor. " A wuz only sayin' as 'ow she's changed, 

why, Mr F , she's not the same woman." " No, 

she's not," was the quick retort, " get us some 
dinner." 

I have always a fear of " panics " on a first night, 
and often wonder how these nervous disturbances 
cause more trouble than the actual outbreak of a 
fire; so that on the first night of Tennyson's 
" Promise of May " at the Globe Theatre, when 
" Old Q," the Marquis of (^tieensberry, stood up 
in the stalls and protested as an atheist against 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 61 

some particular portion of the duologue, which did 
not fall in with his views, I approached my old 
Bohemian friend quite concernedly, and managed 
to quiet him down. 

Similarly, when a play by Wilkie Collins, called 
" Rank and Riches," was done at the Adelphi, G. 
W. Anson, a well-known comedian, came on and 
lectured the audience as to their treatment of this 
" great author," which brought a protest from Mr. 
G. W. Plant, the editor of " Society," a weekly 
journal of the time; it took us all some time to 
quiet down the house. 

It was during this tour that I collected the 
material which was unblushingly attached by Mr. 
George Moore in his " Mummer's Wife." My early 
associations with the Moores of Galway were purely 
of a family nature, and when I was thrown among 
them in London we became very great friends. 
George lived at 3, Danes Itin, and for a time I threw 
my lot in with " Dick " Mansel, already referred to 
at No. 4 next door. The Moores were doing a ver- 
sion of " Les Cloches de Corneville " for F. C. 
" Fairlie," otherwise F. C. Phillips, Barrister-at- 
law, Novelist and Theatrical Manager, who was 
opening a season at the Novelty, that theatre then 
called the " Folies Dramatiques," in honour of the 
Parisian house where Planquette's opera first saw 
the light. For the purpose of adapting the French 
words to the English sense (done by the Moores), 
it was necessary to have a pianist, and in this way 
I was found useful. The clay or night's programme 
was generally a dinner at Gatti's or the Tivoli 
Restaurant the old site of the present Music Hall 
or we met at a little Italian cabaret which stood 
on the site of the present Gaiety Theatre ; there till 
closing time, we repaired to Danes Inn, and I 
"obliged" on the piano till 3 a.m. or 3.30, when 
we adjourned for breakfast to one of the early 
houses in Covent Garden, and after which retiring 
to bed for a similar day and night to follow. Dur- 
ing these midnight orgies I admit youth-like that 
I talked volubly and possibly in a Bohemian way 
decoratively, only to find that every incident in my 



62 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

touring life was faithfully reproduced in " The 
Mummer's Wife." Almost every character in the 
book was a life portrait. Whether we all appre- 
ciated our being held up to nature or not in this 
fashion is purely a question of opinion. 

All I got out of the scheme was a suggestion in 
a City paper that I was the original thief who stole 
the railway station sandwiches as mentioned in the 
book. I had to prosecute an expensive action tor 
libel, and the present Mr. Justice Avory succeeded 
in getting me a verdict for ^50 which damages I 
never recovered. 

Derby station in touring days used to be the only 
place where a married actor was safe to meet his 
wife. All sorts and conditions of " mummers " 
crossing country, separated spouses, children, 
brothers and sisters, found the Sunday waits some- 
times twenty minutes, oftentimes as many hours 
the only possible family reconciliation for " months 
and months and months." 

The manner in which the illegitimate version of 
" Les Cloches " came to be done was curious. F. 
C. Fairlie was associated with the late Alexander 
Henderson in its original production, and when 
some disagreement arose at the Globe Theatre, and 
Henderson threatened to withdraw the opera, it was 
used as a lever by Fairlie that there was some flaw 
in the registration, and that the music was " free," 
leaving it open to any person to produce " another 
version." Fairlie then commissioned " another 
version," by both the Moores, which ultimately 
only ran six nights. The strange part of it all was 
that H. B. Farnie, who did the original translation, 
occupied rooms underneath the Moores and Mansel 
in Danes Inn, and for many weeks preceding the 
illegitimate production he had to be tortured with 
hearing the opera tunes distorted and disfigured 
by me on the piano to make them fit the English 
lyrics of the Moores, which if successful would have 
more or less cheapened his property. It may here 
be mentioned that the original copyright in the 
work has since been maintained in a Court of haw. 
George Moore afterwards tried his hand at a one- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 63 

act comic opera, " The Fashionable Beauty," with 
music by the present writer, at the Avenue Theatre, 
but it only ran about two weeks, and, looking back 
on the production, that was about as much as it 
deserved. It was a slack-baked effort, at least of 
mine, but it served to introduce for the first time 
prominently in London as a dancing girl a lady 
who in the comedy which preceded it was playing 
" Old women character parts " Miss Betty Lind, 
who had previously in her own name Miss Rudd 
appeared at Drury Lane. 

Perhaps some of the most peculiar experiences 
that one went through in the earlier days were 
those associated with the financing of the musical 
entertainments, and none of these was surrounded 
with such precarious experiments as the before- 
mentioned " Cloches de Corueville " season. 

The finance for this production was found by a 
Mr. Aubrey Hinds, a young blood, since dead. He 
was provided by a money-lending tout named 

M , who had a glass eye. It appeared that in 

years gone by the tout had been transported to 
Australia for fraud, and in prison discovering a 
plot against the life of the Governor, he " in- 
formed " on the conspirators, as a reward was re- 
leased " on leave," and returned to England. He 
was followed later on by his two former associates 
in jail, who on their liberation also came home, 
ran him to earth, and revenged themselves by 
gouging out one of his eyes. On this interesting, 
if unhandsome personality, we were dependent for 
the money for our weekly salaries. One " Treas- 
ury " day, when the life insurance was not got 
through (which was necessary to a further loan 
from the one-eyed exchequer), four dejected people 
the late Richard Mansel, the Insurance Company's 
Doctor, the Solicitor to the Syndicate, and " Francis 
Fairlie " (F. C. Phillips), pursued "the nice young 
gentleman " into Bedfordshire for the proper guaran- 
tees and medical inspection, without which the 
Insurance Company would not complete the policy, 
and without which the money-lender would not 
advance the monies to pay the poor girls' salaries. 



64 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

When the season was over, an action at law arose 
against the gilded youth's estate for the recovery 
of certain amounts alleged to be due. To save fur- 
ther expense, the Trustees tendered a large amount 
in Court to stop the action. The plaintiffs, how- 
ever, refused this liberal offer, and the Judge ad- 
journed the Court for luncheon, and suggested fur- 
ther pourparlers with a view to settlement between 
counsel. Just as the Court resumed after luncheon, 
the Associate handed the Judge a telegram, after 
reading which his Lordship said : " The case is at 
an end. I have in my hand a telegram informing 
the Court that the defendant died just before we 
adjourned." 

Later on the glass-eyed merchant appeared at the 
Old Bailey in another fraud charge, and received 
another taste of " Her Majesty's pleasure." As the 
jury brought in their verdict of " Guilty," and just 
before sentence, some one passed a note to a jury- 
man, which evoked all sorts of protests from coun- 
sel on both sides as to the propriety of its being 
read. Old Sir Thomas Chambers the Recorder 
smiled and said he had " no objection " to the note 
being read out. With due solemnity the Associate 
read out : " The Judge is a bally old fool, and a 
friend of the prisoner's." To which old " Tommy " 
promptly replied : "I assure you, gentlemen, I 
have never seen the prisoner before in my life." 
" Not," interrupted counsel for the Crown, " since 
you sent him to penal servitude twenty years ago." 
(Tableau.) 

When the old Evans Rooms were open in Covent 
Garden now the National Sporting Club one of 
its attractions was a chorus of boys, which more 
or less ran concurrently with the boys' chorus in 
" Babil and Bijou " at Covent Garden in 1873. In 
this collection were two Yiddisher youths, Bower 
and Fred Solomon, both of them brothers of Ed- 
ward (Teddy) Solomon, who was destined later on 
to commence but never to finish a brilliant career. 
Two at least of these boys boasted relationship to 
the late Napoleon III., through some sort of a Mor- 
ganatic liaison not necessary to insist upon. Old 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 65 

Charlie Solomon, their father, was a pianist, and 
from this source was developed the very great 
musicianly gifts of Edward Solomon. Edward 
began his professional career as a pianist at the 
Old Mogul (Middlesex) Tavern Hall in Drury 
Lane. A brilliant executant, he wrote hornpipes 
in the stock orchestral book for a shilling each, and 
later on emerged from this pewter-pot and sawdust- 
floor atmosphere to be Director of Music for Charles 
Wyndham, Alexander Henderson and other well- 
known West-end managers. He was the first 
musical director for " Les Cloches de Corneville " 
at the old Folly Theatre (now thrown into Charing 
Cross Hospital), and as Shiel Barry the original 
miser had lost his voice at the dress rehearsal he 
put the identical notes that Barry should have sung 
on the first night into the trombone part of Plan- 
quette's orchestration. 

This effect, simple as it was, made a distinct 
success on the first night, and mainly helped 
the big scene into this sensational achieve- 
ment, although at rehearsal it was predicted " a 
failure." 

Solomon was one of the cleverest musicians of 
the 'Seventies and 'Eighties, but he never " made 
good," although he threatened at one time to rival 
Arthur Sullivan. He did a lot of clever work, 
though beyond gathering cash " deposits " and 
securing short runs, he never actually got there. 
He was married five times, one of his legitimate 
spouses being the handsome Lillian Russell, who 
has recently married her fourth spouse. His 
pianoforte impromptus were wonderful, and to 
charm a hundred pounds or two out of a music 
publisher or a theatre directorate was, with him, 
as easy as winking. One morning the Alhambra 
Board wrote him enquiring if he had an opera 
ready, as they wanted one immediately. Of course, 
he had. So he wired an eminent librettist : 

" Come to Cavour next door to Alhambra lunch 
at i. We play our new opera to Alhambra direc- 
tors at 3. TEDDY." 
c 



66 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Now, till Sydney Grundy, the E.L. referred to, 
received this wire, the librettist did not know that 
they had a new opera ready, and he stated so em- 
phatically on arrival at the Cavour. " Never mind 
that," said Teddy, "you tell them a story of In- 
diansstolen white-facebattlearrival of Ameri- 
can rescuers burning at stake spectacular ballet, 
and all will be well and the deposit ^200 is 
ours." 

And so it happened Ted rattled them the 
" Grand March of the Sioux Indians over the 
Bridge," " The Love Song of the Pale White-face," 
"The Battle in the Forest," "The Grand Ballet 
before the Burning at the Stake," and " The Tri- 
umphant March at the end for the Rescue." They 
were delighted. Henry Sutton, the Chairman, said 
it was lovely; Archibald Nagle, the bill-poster, an- 
other Director, liked those lovely tunes ; and 
General Hale-Wortham, also on the Board, "knew 
nothing about music, but thought it all good." 
But the only musically educated Director on the 
Board, Charles Coote, their specialist, was absent, 
so " would Teddy come two days later and let him 
hear the opera? " In the meantime, Teddy touched 
for ^200 on account of fees for that or any other 
opera. Two days later they all met. Henry Sutton 
hummed and hah-ed, Nagle did not think it " was 
quite so good," and General Wortham said, " It 
hardly improved on second hearing " ; Coote said, 
" Is this all? " The truth was poor Teddy had for- 
gotten every note he had improvised the day pre- 
vious, improvised an entirely different work, and 
departed the next morning for New York with his 
wife and the ^200. 

Solomon had a nasty habit of selling a song three 
or four times over. One of his very best, " Do 
you think that he'll come back don't know," was 
sold in turn to Charlie Hawtrey, George Edwardes, 
Alma Stanley, W. S. Penley, and E. Ascherberg; 
and the morning after he produced " The Red 
Hussar " with Marie Tempest for H. J. Leslie, the 
gentleman who had made a fortune out of " Dor- 
othy," everybody concerned received injunctions 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 67 

from people who had already bought it as " The 
White Sergeant," or some similar title. But lie 
had a fund of melodic wit and an originality in his 
orchestration not to be encountered too often in 
these declining musical comedy days. 

About this time I used to do a lot of work for 
Teddie Solomon. I was one of the earliest musical 
directors of the Empire Theatre in Leicester Square, 
where he placed me in 1885. Solomon, as I have 
hinted, threatened at one time to become a rival 
to Arthur Sullivan, who had a great appreciation 
of his abilities, but he had the misfortune to be 
associated with weak libretti. For the last three 
years of its existence, I " devilled " the music of 
the Guards' burlesque, for Solomon, with which I 
assisted at the piano the first time, and the second 
time scored nearly all the music. The present Lord 
Cheylesmore, Lord Athlumney, Sir Augustus Web- 
ster of Battle Abbey (our prominent " Blacked- 
guardsman " ; he was one of the Guards' nigger 
troupe, and a dapper on the banjo), Colonel George 
Nugent, Lord Newton, and others, all made a brave 
show which helped charity, enlivened barrack life, 
and alas for its reputation ! relieved a dullness 
in Society which modern innovations have not 
improved to advantage. The Guards were all ama- 
teurs, and only in the female roles encouraged pro- 
fessionals. I will never forget Major Crompton 
Roberts in a " Widow Twankey " part with the 
song, " I wasn't a bit like a boy." It was one day, 
however, suggested that the late hours kept at the 
" Impromptu Cafe Royal " of the Officers' quarters 
(where we dined, wined, and chimed till all hours), 
and the genial Bohemianism of the entourage, did 
not conduce to military discipline, so the following 
season, before starting rehearsals, a dear old gentle- 
man, Colonel Wigram, had the following notice 
posted up in the rehearsal room : 

" ONLY LADIES OF GUARANTEED RESPECTABILITY 
WILL IN FUTURE BE ALLOWED IN THE BARRACKS 
FOR THE PURPOSE OF THEATRICAL PERFORMANCES." 



68 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

This did it one more season and the Guards' 
Burlesque was a thing of the past. 

I never enjoyed myself more than while they 
lasted. The rehearsals started after lunch, and con- 
tinued till " time to dress for dinner." The chorus 
was a sight. About sixteen officers a lord, an 
earl, a baron, a knight, a major or two, a few cap- 
tains. They came when they liked, wore what they 
liked, and sang as they liked. When they shouted 
out a comic song, it was not Teddy Solomon's ver- 
sion or mine that they sang, it was their own 
smoking-room edition, but in the end they pulled 
themselves together, and Clement Scott, in the 
" Daily Telegraph," ordered Alex. Henderson, H. 
B. Farnie, and George Edwardes to go and take a 
leaf out of the book of these "very funny people 
and give us the same thing in the West End." I 
shall never forget when we migrated to Windsor 
for three nights, all duly quartered at the White 
Hart, how poor old Colonel Wigram, in the front 
TOW of the stalls at the Windsor Theatre, leaned 
over and stopped poor Kate Yaughan's dance with 
these words: "Glover, you're doing it too fast; 
now take it from me," and immediately proceeded 
to conduct ni}' Band. It was only a band of six, 
and we had two first violins Mr. G. W. Byng (now 
Musical Director of the Alhambra) and Herman 
Finck, in a like position at the Palace. 

A great admirer of these festivities was the late 
King" Ed ward VII. ; and the Princess Mary of Teck, 
mother of the present Queen, patronized every per- 
formance, the profits of which if any went to 
charity. 

Solomon did not live long to enjoy the fruits of 
his undoubted genius. He had a horrible habit of 
getting married. I mean legally married. He in- 
troduced me to at least twelve " Solomon's wives," 
and I can safely say that he had gone through some 
sort of marriage ceremony in some country with 
at least five of them. His most handsome spouse 
was the famous and beautiful Lillian 'Russell. One 
day on the stage of a New York theatre, during a 
rehearsal of one of his operas, " Lord Bateman," 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 69 

lie started playing his " Silver Line " a beautiful 
melody. " I'll leave my home for the composer of 
that melody." "Right," said Teddy to the lady 
speaker, " let us sail on Saturday." And sail they 
did, arriving in England, where they were married, 
and were received in open arms by John 
Hollingshead, who " presented " both in " Paul and 
Virginia," an opera by Solomon and H. Pottinger 
Stephens, at the Gaiety Theatre. But through a 
procession of wives, concubines, and other attach- 
ments, this clever musician wandered till he died 
almost unknown, unthought of, and uncared for in 
a flat-hovel in Maiden Lane, where at the last 
moment I was enabled to do something towards 
seeing that he was laid to rest with some sort of 
reputable respect. 

Apart from my experience with soldiers in the 
Guards' Burlesque, my only other experience of 
soldier singers, this time of the rank and file, was 
in " The Lady of the Locket " at the Empire, 
where Henry Hamilton, the author, and Willie 
Fullerton, the composer, insisted on some of the 
choruses being sung by real guardsmen. It cost 
me ten weeks' hard work to teach sixteen soldiers 
to render harmonized choruses, and then I took up 
the paper one morning to find that the Mahcli had 
made " a demonstration," and the regiment with 
my choristers was ordered to Egypt. During this 
season I had 3 a week. For this I composed the 
opening operetta, " Ten Minutes for Refreshment," 
for which I had given an unknown actor, Richard 
Mansfield, ins. on account of 3 for the entire 
rights, conducted it, later on leading the unseen 
choruses of the opera in the first act, then in an 
emergency dressed in a Venetian gown, doing a 
dance in the second act, what time I chanted these 
words : 

Oh, we are the Council of Ten, 

All truly remarkable men, 
And he is the doge a deuce of a doge 

And we are the Council of Ten. 

The second act finished, I put on evening dress 



7 o JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

and conducted the entire ballets of the third act. 
It was during this opera that, its fortunes waning, 
the services of the late Lord Alfred Paget were 
requisitioned to induce the then Prince of Wales 
(King Edward VII.) to visit the Empire. The 
Alhambra had passed through a thorny licensing 
session on its application for a music-hall license, 
and the songs of Arthur Roberts were hotly 
criticized. The night the Alhambra re-opened, 
Roberts sang a great ditty there called " I'm a 
"highly respectable Singer." This publicity raised 
a doubt as to the class of performance that was 
anticipated at the newer house. It first opened 
with " Chilperic " by Herve a revival, then fol- 
lowed " Polly," by Edward Solomon and " Jimmy " 
Mortimer, the once Editor of " The London Figaro," 
a paper subventioned to keep alive the Bonapartist 
spirit of Napoleon III. Transferred from the 
Noveity, " Polly " shared the programme, with the 
fir?, performance in England of the " Coppelia " 
ba ! let, and it took us later on into " Pocohontas," 
by Sydney Grundy and Edward Solomon, in which 
Mr. Hayden Coffin made his first professional ap- 
pearance on any stage. It was agreed that, if the 
Prince of Wales came, a sort of matchwood tunnel 
should be built to his box to ensure what we were 
told was much needed privacy ; this was intimated 
to us by Lord Alfred Paget. This was accordingly 
done, much to the annoyance of the Royal visitor, 
who showed his usual consideration and tact by 
not using it, but by mixing among the audience, 
and during the interval visiting the golden upstairs 
foyer (the first specimen of the new extravagance 
in decorative music-hall art), and enjoying a cigar- 
ette with Mr. Henry Osborn O'Hagan, the financier 
of the concern, the lately-deceased manager, Mr. 
H. J. Kitchens, and the late Lord Alfred Paget. 

Another quaint experience was on the first night 
of this " Lady of the Locket." The final fall of 
the curtain brought huge cries of " Coffin, Coffin, 
Coffin ! " A wag in the gallery shouted out, 
" Rather early to call for the ' Coffin ' to bury the 
play after its first performance! " 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 71 

Somehow or other, Edward Solomon could not 
tolerate Lord Alfred Paget, and as the genial old 
gentleman was one day listening to Sydney, 
Grundy and Solomon's " Pocohontas," the com- 
poser's brother, a diminutive little music-copyist, 
went up to his lordship and said : " All the chorus 
gentlemen are engaged, but we want an old man 
to carry on a pie in the comic scenes." 

Solomon, in order to " hold the fort," had forced 
" Pocohontas " on to the management, and it was 
scored and copied at a white heat. All hands - 
friendly and professional were called to the rescue 
for copying the music, and many a late night when 
we were working we commandeered the popular 
composer, Lionel Monckton, to do some parts and 
I do know that I always gave the composer of " The 
Quaker Girl " the most difficult ones. When the 
curtain went up on the first act the parts of the 
second act were not dry, and as the show went on 
I passed the ink-wet music sheets into the orchestra 
for each number. 

In this chapter I have mentioned several names 
which, judged by later events, demand rather more 
importance for anecdotal purposes than seem pos- 
sible at first mention. Frank Celli, the Captain 
John Smith of " Pocohontas," had a handsome 
presence and a fine voice, but over-estimated his 
own importance, and had some of the worst vanities 
of the star artiste. We all wanted to do honour to 
little Charley Alias the costumier in 1886 so it 
was arranged to give him a benefit performance of 
" Les Cloches de Corneville," with a great cast. 
Everybody of note was in the chorus, and Celli was 
announced for the rdle of " The Marquis." He 
kept the curtain down at this performance a quar- 
ter of an hour because Farnie would not make a 
personal announcement about his sore throat, a 
species of concert-room " swank " very often in- 
dulged in. Farnie raved and swore, but all to no 
purpose. Now it so happened that four " Cloches 
de Corneville " touring companies were just then 
" resting," and their respective " Marquises " were 
all in the stalls on this occasion, so that when an 



72 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

impasse seemed imminent, it was an easy thing 
for me to rush through the iron door, ask Farnie 
what was " up," and on finding the cause of the 
delay find my way to Celli's room. " I refuse to 
sing I won't go on I insist," raved Celli. These 
were the words which greeted my entrance to the 
dressing-room. " Well," I spluttered, " Farnie 
says he'll give you three minutes, and in that time 
if the curtain is not up, either William Hogarth," 
one Marquis then touring the opera, " John How- 
son," the original London Marquis, or " Lithgow 
James," the original provincial Marquis, " all of 
whom are in the stalls, will be on the stage." Celli 
sang. 

Two of the " fiddlers " I have mentioned in this 
chapter have both pursued their modestly begun 
career to havens of great success. 

I discovered Mr Herman Finck in my orchestra 
of ten at the Comedy, when I was with Charlie 
Hawtrey. I removed him to the Palace, and made 
him one of the first violinists at 525. 6d. a week, on 
the opening night. He is now its excellent music 
director, and composer of one of the greatest suc- 
cesses of modern times, " In the Shadows." 

Finck was a pupil of Henry Gadsb}^'s at the 
Guildhall, and deciding to leave Hawtrey at the 
Comedy I arranged for him to succeed me. But 
some argument arose between the future Palace 
music director and annoyed Hawtrey, so much so 
that he engaged another chef d'orchestre to follow 
me. Finck then came to my rescue in arranging 
some band parts for the Palace, and as a reward I 
gave him the post just referred to, which led to his 
finding his way to his present unique position. 

The other Guards' Burlesque fiddler was my es- 
teemed friend George Byng. 

George Bulkley Byng at the Alhambra was with 
my family in Dublin in the 'Seventies ; with me at 
Manchester in the 'Eighties. A pupil of my mother 
and grandfather, he has found an honourable 
haven at the Alhambra. When I wrote two ballets 
for the Leicester Square house I found him my best 
Iriend. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 73 

Another discovery was Allen Gill the oratorio 
conductor whom I met periodically on my touring 
visits and was my 'cello at Plymouth Theatre 
Royal. He says that during one of those casual 
visits to that Devonshire town I said to him, " Try 
London, don't waste your time here." He took 
iny advice, and the result is well known. 



CHAPTER IV 

About Night Clubs " The New " Hughie Drum- 
mond Blundell Maple Sam Lewis " The Gar- 
denia " " The Corinthian " closing them up 
Police raids " Half world " humour an attempted 
suicide The Percy Street Club The Dolaros The 
Nell Gwynne A thirty-five pound supper " The 
Alsatians" in Oxford Street Electing the members 
A " mixed " marriage a " missing " bridegroom 
a disgraced bridal gown Early Bohemianism The 
Clubs of the 'Eighties Harry Wilson The Jewel 
Thief From the Albany to Spinks in Piccadilly via 
Paris, St. Petersburg and Monte Carlo A " plant " in 
Bond Street A cheque trick Dan Leno The Prince 
of Wales sees two performances in one day at the 
same Theatre. 

I AM not concerning myself with the night resorts 
of London of too early a period, but only with 
those which came under my ken in the 'Eighties. 
The Victorian " Cock and Hen " Club was an in- 
stitution which came into existence in the early 
days after the 1872 Licensing Acts, the closing of 
Cremorne Gardens (now built over in Chelsea), the 
Argyll Rooms, and the night-houses of the Hay- 
rnarket. They were generally a concession to the 
demand of the Bohemians who commenced their 
daily lives with supper after the theatre, and were 
directly connected with a time when a hotel-ridden 
London did not exist, the dinner hour began at 6 
o'clock, and the theatre was over at n p.m. Other 
chroniclers have told of many of these institutions, 
but in the early 'Eighties they sprang up mush- 
room-like, with remarkable prodigality, some good, 
some bad, some indifferent. 
74 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 75 

Of the lighter tone was the " New Club " on the 
site of Evans' in Co vent Garden now the National 
Sporting Club this latter started by Willie 
" Shifter " Goldberg, after the closing of the 
" Pelican." The New Club, however, as a Cock- 
and-Hen institution, tried hard to live on an exclu- 
sive coterie. Its secretary was Freddy Wellesley, 
related to the Duke of Wellington (he subsequently 
married Kate Vaughan) ; and Royalty, chaperoned 
by the Duke of Beaufort, and Lord Alfred Paget 
(nicknamed " Bangles " owing to his prevalence for 
going behind the scenes and presenting ballet girls 
with small silver " bangles ") was a constant 
visitor. A small band, conducted by an eminent 
Italian musician, Signer Dami, discoursed sweet 
music, but the Club had too esoteric a clientele for 
profit, and when one evening the late Hughie 
Druinmond attacked the late Sir Blundell Maple 
over a furniture bill (which the Tottenham Court 
Road firm had " distrained *' for on the "rich 
young banker's " goods and chattels) it was seen 
that the mixture of the Upper Ten of Society and 
the lower five of Commerce would not work. 
" There's the bounder who put the bailiffs in on 
my poor old mother," shouted Hughie, and the 
Croesus of Tottenham Court Road after an apolo- 
getic bow to H.R.H. turned on his heel and left 
the room. " Well, Sam, how's money in Cork 
Street?" said Maple one night to the well-known 
financier. " All right, Blundell. How's clothes- 
horses in Tottenham Court Road? " was the quick 
reply. Hughie Drummond had a humour which in 
those days was considered smart. Personally, I 
never laughed even at the vulgarity of standing up 
in the Gaiety stall on a first night and frightening 
the audience by blowing a police whistle ; or, as 
related in another instance, his entering the Pelican 
Club and clearing its long bar counter of three 
dozen glasses, smashing them on the floor, and 
calling for " a whisky and soda." The New Club 
subsequently tried artistic dances and private enter- 
tainments, but all of no avail. 

Of a different class, but distinctly more amusing, 



76 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

was the " Gardenia " in Leicester Square, where 
" La Goulue " was first introduced to this country 
under the management of Dudley Ward, who mar- 
ried a sister of the present Lord Esher, and where 
an Irish contortionist (La Belle Luceida born in 
Limerick) went down on her stomach several times 
during tlie evening for a consideration to thread 
needles with her eyelashes, a performance she pro- 
fessionally gave at the London Pavilion. Here too 
a great many subsequently famous " comics " tried 
a hand at professional singing before they " topped 
the bill," to use the language of the class, at the 
principal Halls. 

The " Gardenia " succumbed in time to the police, 
who were on the alert to try and suppress all night 
houses of this description, but they had some diffi- 
culty in getting a " case " as the Clubs Registra- 
tion Act was not then on the statute-book. I got 
the hint early in the day about this raid and pre- 
pared to follow it up for journalistic purposes. I 
waited outside on the opposite side of Leicester 
Square till the police, about midnight, headed by 
Tildsley of Vine Street, entered the Inspector ar- 
riving at the psychological moment when a lady 
was dancing a can-can barefooted, on a table in the 
centre of the room, dressed in soiled spangled even- 
ing dress with a glass of champagne in one hand, 
and conducting the band with the other. One by 
one the habitues were led to understand that they 
were under arrest, and all filed out to Vine Street, 
each in charge of a constable, but as they passed 
through, were forced to call out to the recording 
officer their name, description and address. 

"Polly So-and-so, Actress"; "Minnie So-and- 
So, Actress "; " Cissie So-and-So, Milliner," and so 
it went on " milliner " " actress " " actress " 
" milliner " to tiresome iteration, till the ninth or 
tenth demi-mondaine stirred by the untruthfulness 
of her colleagues, when the officer said : " What 
are you? " replied as follows : " I'm no bally act- 
ress or milliner you bloomer otherwise what 
would I be doing out here doing a high-kicker show 
in low-necked dress at this hour of the morning? " 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 77 

I hurriedly drafted out two columns headed : 
" Come into the Gardenia, Maud " for the morning 
papers and the old place was no more. One 
habitue, whose sense of shame was suddenly 
awakened by her arrest under such questionable 
circumstances, was so upset at her name appearing: 
in the papers the next morning, that on the follow- 
ing Sunday she threw herself off Kingston Bridge 
into the Thames, but was happily rescued and the 
experience having taught her a lesson, she married, 
settled down, and has been happy ever since. 

" The Corinthian " in York Street, St. James', 
was next tried by John Hollingshead then retired 
from the Gaiety Theatre, and a huge army of real 
actresses, all in the front line of comic opera, were 
elected as honorary members. It would not be lair 
to mention their names but the " genuine " article 
would not stop up night after night, for the accom- 
modation of an expensive wine list, and so the 
other sort of " actress " came along and continued 
its vacillating fortunes, until two neighbouring 
householders swore an information under what is 
called " Scot and Lot law," and the police shut it 
up. A prosecution followed, and the Club was 
finished. It was at this Club, when the famous 
" Pas de Quatre " was in vogue, that the Barn 
Dance was invented a term then borrowed from 
America, but topically appropriate at the time, the 
male clients being all members of the new Barn 
Club, started at the back of the Comedy Theatre 
by Sir Robert Peel and others another unsuccess- 
ful attempt to replace the old "Pelican." 

The Percy Street Supper Club was one of the 
most respectably conducted of these nocturnal re- 
sorts, frequented as to its female membership by a 
class of light-o'-love that was ashamed to be asso- 
ciated with the commoner throng, and yet wanted 
some supper resort. It was run by " Ti " Dolaro 
" Belasco," husband of the beautiful Selina Dolaro, 
who made all London ring in the 'Seventies, and a 
relation of the late David " James " Belasco of 
" Our Boys " fame. The prices were modest, the 
food was good, and the smoking concerts often 



7 8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

boasted of names now high in the professional 
world. It is strange how these night Clubs were 
resorted to by many artistes to try their songs " on 
the dog " as the saying goes. 

Other resorts of a like kind were " No. n," in 
Regent Street, the " Waterloo " and " The Nell 
G wynne " a subterranean suite in Long Acre (said 
to have been patronized by Sweet Nell of Old 
Drury, but certainly often visited by " Sweet Jim " 
of Old Drury) ; the " Palm," in Oxford Street, and 
the " Spooferies " in Maiden Lane. All these es- 
tablishments were kept open until 4 or 5 a.m. 
The programme at each was much about the same. 
A handful of musicians, twenty or thirty members, 
women of a more or less interrogative reputation, 
a respectable music-hall serio or two, a few hand- 
some blondes or brunettes, principally the mis- 
tresses or housekeepers of commercial and young- 
blooded London, who, if they were seen in well- 
known resorts would " lose their boys," and who 
came into these so-called " Clubs " for a dance, a 
drop and a feed, with the knowledge that their 
particular protectors could not easily detect them 
and that the class of frequenters they encountered 
could not give them away in their " boys " sets. 
A supper to a popular music-hall " serio " one 
night given by a banker's son cost thirty-five 
pounds a head for ten people. The " Mug " paid 
for the champagne by corkage, and as he viewed 
at 4 a.m. the battalion of " dead 'uns," he won- 
dered that so few could have in so short a time got 
rid of so many. 

The male clientele was recruited from actors, 
musicians, book-makers, music-hall artistes, all of 
whom contributed to the impromptu entertainments 
which were such a strong feature of the night's 
programme. Rows often happened in their early 
cups a bottle flew, a scrimmage took place, a 
jealous " inamorata " accosted a lady friend, per- 
sonal recriminations often ensued, but it was all 
settled with a forgiving good humour, which, if it 
was vulgar in its Bohemianism, was nearly always 
honest in its sincerity. The last of these houses 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 79 

to go under was " The Alsatians " in Oxford Street. 
This was run by a man named Harding Moore, and 
of all the people who dealt in this shady sort of 
business, he knew his work best. On Oxford and 
Cambridge nights the scramble by " non-members " 
to get in was riotous. " We're Cambridge men," 
they shouted one night. " Yes," said Moore, " I 
can hear it." "But can't we come in?" " No,, 
not unless you become members." "What rot! " 
" Yes it is, but I can't see you all rushing into the 
witness-box to-morrow morning at Marlborough 
vStreet to give evidence in my favour if I am raided 
to-night! " It was right opposite my bachelor's 
quarters in Oxford Street, and as the food was ex- 
cellent I often visited it for a belated supper (with- 
out always patronizing the " Salle de danse ") what 
time my duties kept me late at the theatre. I will 
now give the form of procedure : Young gent 
arrives with lady not a member sorry must go 
before committee, but on deposit of subscription, 
lady and gentleman can go in. Deposit for gentle- 
man five guineas entrance and five guineas sub- 
scription. Lady three guineas thirteen guineas 
to get a bit of supper ! 

Just about the Spring-time the proprietor started 
" Our Alsatian House-boat Club " at Hampton; 
Court. Glorious fun. Beautiful week-end facilities. 
No questions asked. Subscription, two guineas ; 
lady five, the whole course twenty guineas. I 
have seen this farce come off dozens of times in any 
given week. An incident in the life of this institu- 
tion, for it was an institution, was vividly im- 
pressed on my mind. A lady member of easy 
morality had an annuity of 600 a year. She fell 
in love with a handsome but penniless young" 
Guardsman and he with her; in the end he offer- 
ing her wedlock. She arranged a wedding at St. 
George's, Hanover Square. His family, shocked, 
protested all to no purpose. The eve of the wed- 
ding his bachelor friends suggested a farewell 
dinner at the Cafe Royal at 7.30. Dined, wined 
and primed well at 11.30 he was hopelessly in- 
toxicated. They drove him to Euston Station on 



8o JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

a pretence, placed him in a first-class sleeper, hav- 
ing previously taken a ticket to Aberdeen, gave 
the guard a fiver with instructions that if the pas- 
senger, who was booked to Aberdeen, did not wake 
up till twelve the next day, he (i.e. the guard) 
would have another similar donation. This art- 
fully-arranged programme came off. The wedding 
bells at vSt. George's, Hanover Square, tolled in 
vain. The lady, disappointed and dejected, went 
back to the Continental Hoted, dined, whined and 
pined and then went on to the Empire Theatre in 
her costume de noces, where she was the admired 
of the promenade for the evening. After which she 
wended her way back to the Continental Hotel for 
supper and wound up at i a.m. at the Alsatian 
Club ; she played kiss-in-the-ring with a horde of 
her lady friends, who deliberately and intentionally 
tore every stitch of her wedding costume to shreds 
till she stood in the middle of the floor as nude as 
Eve in the Garden of Eden. A borrowed dress, a 
much over-wined woman, and a group of " sym- 
pathisers " was all that remained of an incident 
which I think is almost Balzacian in its reality. 
This incident has on more than one occasion been 
anticipated by the game of " spoof " in the old 
spooferies in Maiden Lane. " Spoof " is not a very 
intellectual form of humour, but there are many 
who remember its votaries, and its victims. 

Two of the most frequent supporters of the 
Supper Club were a celebrated comedienne and her 
at one time ducal admirer. 

The Duchess of course naturally objected to the 
attentions of the comedienne, and hearing that his 
Grace's insolvency was quoted as a reason for his 
indulgence in such unsavoury society a curious 
sequitur, it will be admitted the following corres- 
pondence took place : 

" The Duchess of presents her compliments 

to Miss Bessie B and wishes to state that if she 

will allow the Duke of to return to his own 

"home, the Duchess will pay all his debts and allow 
him 20 a week." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK Si 

7o which the comedienne replied : 

" Miss Bessie B presents her compliments to 

thf Duchess of and begs to state that she is 

nov working the Pavilion, the Met., (i.e. Metro- 
politan Music Hall) and the South London, at 20 
a tvrn, so she can allow the Duke 30 a week and 
he is 50 a week better off as he is." 

Ot.ier and more authoritative pens have dealt 
with this side of the general Bohemianism of Lon- 
don, but it was at its height in the 'Eighties and 
has been declining ever since. Flat life, motor life, 
week-end life, all this has destroyed the owl life of 
London. To go into the older clubs and be told the 
same old stories by the same old fogeys over and 
over again, cannot now be offered as an attraction 
to the neophyte in Town. The morose Arthur 
Mathison, the cheery " Poet of the Strand," H. S. 
Leigh, whose " Carols of Cockayne " will ever live 
all such-like Bohemians, with an exception here 
and there, have passed away. When I first joined 
the battalion, we generally ended at Hart's or 
Rockley's now Hummum's early coffee-house in 
Covent Garden, which opened at 3 a.m., and gave 
us beautiful breakfasts of ham and eggs. Here, 
H. J. Byron, David James, George and Augustus 
Moore, the Brothers Mansel (who first brought 
comic opera to this country in " Chilperic " at the 
Lyceum) and poor Bill Terriss, who afterwards 
bought one licensed house, Hart's, as a speculation, 
E. J. Odell, F. C. Phillips (" As in a Looking- 
Glass,") and hundreds of others all pass my 
memory in jape and quip. The modern hotel and 
the greater journalism have helped to swamp small 
personalities, but the smug hospitality of these 
simple surroundings nursed giants in every art on 
a more liberal scale than exists now. 

Perhaps one of the more noted West-end per- 
sonalities of the last twenty-five years, is the 
genial, good-hearted, clever Harry Wilson of Bow 
Street, who just came on the scene when George 
Lewis retired from his personal attention to the 



82 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Criminal Bar at "The Courts of First Instance." 
There are few men who are held in such esteem bv 
the Bar, Bench and Brotherhood as the popular 
lawyer, whose fund of anecdote, if he could ever 
publish a book, would make the country laugh 
at least, that part of it which did not quiver. One 
good story for I knew the man will suffice. A 
client had lost some valuable heirloom jewels, ind 
no matter what the cost, insisted on Harry person- 
ally pursuing the thief. So off to Paris went our 
friend to find the bird had flown to Russia. So, 
later on we found him on his Sherlock Holmes 
quest, hundreds of miles in the land of kummel, 
caviare and vodka, and then back to the South of 
France, where he discovered some of the jewels in 
a Monte Carlo mont de piiti. But there was one 
more valuable jewel than the rest, and he had in- 
structions not to return without it. Now, Wilson 
was armed with warrants of search from Ministers 
of Justice and all other necessary " Open sesames " 
to official red-tape ; so he ran his quarry to earth 
in a French county jail where he was detained 
awaiting trial on another matter. This particular 
mobsman was a rare London midnight oil bird ; 
dressed with Silver King " spider "-like correct- 
ness, he patronized the stalls of every theatre and 
music-hall, dined at the Savoy, boxed at the Em- 
pire, finishing up his evenings at one of the many 
night Clubs. We all knew him by his Christian 
name " Frank," without any hint as to his real 
identity; and he addressed us equally familiarly. 
So, when Harry Wilson was ushered into the cell 
in the French prison, the following conversation 
took place : 

"Oh! is it you, Harry? I know what you're 
here for those jewels; but not a single one will 
you get till you do something for me." Then he 
pulled out his watch. 

" Now, this is a serious matter," insisted the 
man of law. 

" Serious be blowed ! " shouted the caged 
criminal. " Well, it's now ten o'clock and I won't 
budge a word, or give the slightest information, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 83 

until five, up to which time you've got to sit on 
tiat stool and tell me all about London. Do the 
S.me girls go- to ' The Alsatians ' ? Have you been 
to the Cafe Royal lately ? Does So-and-So go 
^here still ? etc. What's the new ballet like at the 
Empire ? Out with it all ! Here am I, caged up 
in this cubicle, and all you chaps are having a 
deuce of a time in London, and I'm not in it. Own 
up, Harry, own up ! " 

Wilson was adamant, but all to no purpose, till 
he promised that if a clean breast was made of the 
whole affair, he would not disclose the list of " pre- 
vious " convictions with the local police, who would 
have used it in the forthcoming trial for which he 
was then detained. 

This brought things to a climax. 

" I've been three weeks trying to find the rest 
of those jewels," continued Mr Wilson. " I've 
scoured all Paris, ransacked Russia, turned Monte 
Carlo inside out, and can't get a clue. Where are 
they? " 

" At Spink's, in Piccadilly! " triumphantly cried 
the jail-bird. And so it came about. Wilson took 
his instructions in the Albany and had to travel all 
over Europe to find something which all the time 
was at Spink's a few yards lower down. 

In some of the lower dens which were often 
visited by the police, one met many people with 
strange careers. The wife of a swell " crook " I 
knew was a good American Roman Catholic. She 
was in a convent school, and on a mission of 
charity took her ^urn to visit the local jail to talk 
hope to the prisoners. This was a charitable duty 
gone through regularly by the Sisters of Mercy, 
who instructed the pupils in their Christianlike 
work by these personal excursions. Under these 
circumstances, the new pupil fell desperately in 
love with a " detenu " a handsome " bank " man. 
A " bank " man is an aristocrat. No pickpocket 
watch-snatching or small theft for him. He has a 
tone of his own. Nothing under a " Bank " or a 
big " Bond " coup will engage his Attention. Her 
father was the Governor of the State, and she used 



84 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

her influence with him to procure the fellow's re- 
lease. A runaway match her husband's return ro 
his old games, and a life of misery followed. Sepa- 
rated from him for many years, he turned up in 
London and avowed repentance, and a wish to lead 
an honest life. She gave in and returned to him, 
in the meantime she having adopted an orphan 
whose fourteenth birthday was imminent. On the 
very morning of this event he signified his inten- 
tion of ordering a birthday present for the little 
one, and the husband and wife repaired to a big 
"Bond Street jeweller's, up to the door of which 
they drove in a previously-ordered sw r ell equipage. 
The wife suspected nothing. Years of weary wait- 
ingshe had credited her husband's return and 
professed honesty as a fait accompli. 

" I want a little diamond ring as a birthday pres- 
ent for this little girl." Such were the first words 
addressed to the obliging assistant behind a counter 
of jewels. 

" Certainly," replied the elated shopman, who 
displayed two or three trays of glittering gems. 
A hurried survey, a few gems taken up and cast 
away disdainfully, a reference or two to the little, 
girl that was all the " benevolent " gentleman 
essayed to do for the moment. 

" Yes no I don't like these. Perhaps a bangle, 
now, would be more suitable for the child. Could 
you show me some ? " 

Immediately the wife gave a huge shriek, which 
drew an excited crowd to the window, in front of 
which she swooned on the floor, falling an insen- 
sible mass of quaking flesli. Doctors were sent for, 
restoratives applied, and in the end the woman was 
taken to the carriage and driven home. She was 
soon brought to her senses. 

" You are a silly ass," interjected her husband. 
" You spoiled the best haul I could have had for 
many a long day." 

She saw the dodge. She opined that her hus- 
band's old traits had returned he could not resist. 
The attendant's attention once diverted, the rings 
would have been " palmed." A similar ruse to this 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 85 

in a jeweller's shop marks the first act of " The 
Great Ruby " as fine a Drury Lane drama as 
ever was. 

I saw a cheque trick at Bow Street once, which 
will put to shame any incident introduced in any 
play. A solicitor had a client a friend of his 
wife's who for many years had " housekeeped " 
for a bachelor old gentleman, who died intestate. 
Any thought of an allowance for the lady friend 
was out of the question ; but in view of the fact that 
she had devoted many years of her life to his care 
and consideration, they allowed her ^300 and So 
for small tradesmen's debts she had incurred on his 
behalf. The man of law, when he got the cheque, 
saw that it was made out to the lady herself, and 
he had determined that she was not going to get it 
all ; so he informed her that he had been successful 
in getting her ^180, and if she would call at his 
private house and dine with him, he would cash 
the cheque. In the meantime, he had noticed that 
the draft was on his own bank, drawn on a form 
of exactly similar size; so he had a second cheque 
made up for the lesser sum and slightly gummed 
to agree with the edges all round. This he placed 
right over the genuine document, and, inviting the 
lady into his study after dinner, turned the pre- 
pared cheque over with a quick " Please endorse 
this on the back." He immediately handed her 
180. 

Of course it will be seen that she had really 
endorsed the cheque for ^380, which later on he 
detached, destroying the top forgery. The price of 
this little bit of drawing was eighteen months' hard 
labour. 

Dan Leno and his wife first came to Drury Lane 
on a joint weekly salary of ^28 ; on his death, his 
own salary was ^240. Now, as a matter of fact, 
this is not so extravagant. It reajly only works 
out at .20 a performance, and there are many ar- 
tistes who will only sing two songs at a concert for 
;8o. Leno's golden asset was the domesticity of 
his humour." He took the ordinary things of daily 
life and wrote, or gagged, round them. He never 



S6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

knew his part on a first night, and never learnt his 
songs. Once he sang a song on Boxing Night 
entirely at variance with every note of the melody 
in the band parts. How the house yelled and 
screamed with delight! "How like Dan! " they 
shouted. In early days of Harris, when the re- 
hearsals dragged on to five o'clock in the morning, 
I once saw the little man sprawling on the floor on 
a Christmas Eve trying to write a cheque for 3000 
to offer to Sir Augustus Harris to allow him to 
break off the engagement. 

" I have just come from the Mint," said Augus- 
tus, one night, "and here's some new money for 
luck, Dan ; one for you, and one for the wife, and 
how many children have you? " 

" Five." 

" One two three four five." 

" But," said Dan, " there's another on the road." 

"Oh," said Harris, "you're a terrible man! " 

" Well, Sir Augustus," quickly retorted Leno, " I 
don't smoke." 

He once booked a concert with me at Bexhill and, 
knowing his forgetfulness, I sent him an early 
wire 

" You leave Victoria at eleven, arrive at one, and 
show at three. Lunch with me." GLOVER. 

to which he sent this reply 

" Buy another knife and fork. Bringing -wife/' 
LENO. 

A good theatrical story of the late King, when 
Prince of Wales, shows the exact amount of interest 
he took in anything on which he set his ~uind, 
When he started the Prince of Wales' Hospital 
Fund, Henry Lowenfeld saw that it wanted a fillip, 
so he made the following diplomatic suggestion to 
high quarters : 

" My theatre is the Prince of Wales' Theatre. 
H.R.H. has never been to any one theatre twice in 
one day. If he will so honour me by coming on 
Saturday to ' A Pierrot's Life ' in the afternoon, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 87 

and ' The White Silk Dress ' on the same evening, 
I will, within twenty-four hours, send a cheque for 
five thousand pounds to his Hospital Fund." 

The Prince was not slow to capture for his pet 
charity such a big fish ; so that on Saturday the 
dual Royal event came off, and on the next night,, 
Sunday, Charlie Levilly (Lowenf eld's manager) and 
myself dined at Gatti's and walked down to the- 
" Daily Telegraph " office in Fleet Street with the 
promised five thousand pounds. 



CHAPTER V 

-Restaurant London A few sketches The Brothers 
Gatti Romano s Trie end or Romano's .Bar its 
varied clientele Phil May His early life A few 
corrections ' Phil " As drawn by himself Romano's 
death Mr. Alfred de Rothschild pays four guineas 
a bottle for brandy Charlie Hawtrey and tile new 

cashier The Marchioness of H and the frustrated 

Guardsman's wedding D'Oyly Carte and the Liverpool 
band. 

THERE is no development which has been more 
marked in my time than Restaurant London. 
" Pagani's," in Great Portland Street, still existent, 
is not the same in its marbled splendour as the old 
.haunt where Pellegrini decorated its walls with his 
wonderful brochures, even as Caruso does now. 
One remembers how " Ape," to whom the Rev. 
White, Chaplain of the vSavoy, would not sit for a 
'" Vanity Fair " " Man of the Day," went to Com- 
munion at the little church down Savoy Hill in 
order to thumbnail his features. Then there were 
the Cafe Royal, in its olden days, when the exiled 
Henri Rochefort led a coterie of Parisian sym- 
pathizers, and others, when Michael Maybrick 
(Stephen Adams) afterwards the Mayor of Ryde, 
Isle of Wight George Grossmith, senior, N. Vert, 
Hans Richter, Hollman the 'cellist, " Faustin," 
" Jimmy " Mortimer of " The Figaro," and dozens 
of others, made the "aperitif" hour a matter of 
infinite interest ; Gatti's Adelaide Gallery, with the 
Brothers Agostino and Stephano never missing, 
attended by George R. Sims, Henry Pettit, Robert 
"Buchanan and Augustus Harris ; and the Gaiety 
88 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 8g, 

Bar (christened " Prosser's Avenue ") by a comic 
singer, named Fred Hughes. 

There were no two personalities more justly popu- 
lar in the Bohemian and theatrical world than the 
Brothers Gatti, whose father and uncle first estab- 
lished the restaurant business at Hungerford Hall,, 
now the site of Charing Cross Station. Here the very 
first of the restaurant orchestras, conducted by an 
Italian named Benvenuti, was started by the Gattis. 
When the station was built at Charing Cross, the- 
Gattis moved to the Adelaide Gallery, where bil- 
liards and chess were the mainstays of the trade till 
the later and longer hailed restaurant development 
asserted itself and bored its way through in all 
directions to the Strand. It really is wonderful 
how these two charming good fellows of Swiss 
nationality, but later naturalized Britons became 
such potent factors in the musical world, for in 
1873 they ran some of the finest promenade con- 
certs that one could wish to hear at Covent Garden,, 
with Jules Riviere as conductor. And later on 
Arthur Sullivan, Alfred Cellier, and F. H. Cowen, 
recently knighted, all ascended the conductor's 
" pupitre " with general success. The Gattis first 
entered the amusement business through sharing in 
the catering department, which led to their pro- 
ducing some very fine pantomimes at the Royal 
Opera House, this taste for theatrical manage- 
ment leading later on to the Adelphi, at which 
theatre they were associated in the long succession 
of Sims-Pettit dramas, which for their financial suc- 
cess and rough, honest, artistic work have not been 
equalled. The Gattis afterwards purchased the 
Vaudeville Theatre, and subject to sub-leases and 
tenancies these houses are still in the possession 
of the family. 

Then there was the Criterion Bar, which attained 
an unenviable notoriety in the old days for encour- 
aging a class of " Sportsman " who is now happily 
defunct, or at least has become such a scattered 
personality that he is barely recognizable. G. H. 
Macdermot, " the Great " Lion Comique, focussed 
such attention on this division in a song called 



90 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

" Captain Criterion," that the song was suddenly 
withdrawn. 

Darmstatter's (next door to Romano's) ; the 
Albion, which was closed in 1892 this latter one 
of the old Drury Lane landmarks, these were a few 
of the Bohemian haunts, some of which have passed 
away, and some have, Phoenix-like, risen in greater 
splendour. "Jimmy's," the old "St. James" 
(now the " Piccadilly ") was a feature in itself. It 
sheltered everything that was blase, bella-donna-ed, 
and often beautiful in the lower strata of female 
Bohemianism. It filled a long-felt want; it occa- 
.sionally filled Vine Street. Its closing hour made 
Piccadilly lively with that peculiar mixture of 
"human frailty and London " Tom and Jerry-ism " 
which used to be one of the West-end sights of 
London for the average " young man up from the 
country." The great occasions for riot and rollick 
were Oxford and Cambridge, Derby, or other festive 
.anniversaries. All this is now happily changed, 
and the West End at night is now possible of traffic 
for any respectable citizen without molestation or 
" mafficking." 

One by one the landmarks of the old Bohemian- 
ism of the 'Seventies and 'Eighties passed away, as 
I have mentioned, unregretted, unhonoured, un- 
sung; but not thus the fate of Romano's. Except 
for a few bars of a faintly-sung " Auld Lang Syne," 
in the early hours of a Saturday morning in June, 
1910, the bar portion of this famous Strand Res- 
taurant passed into the eivigkeit, and, save for a 
subterranean substitute in the grill-room, dis- 
appeared in its old historical form, " never to be 
heard of again." In this wise, it followed prece- 
dent. Romano's is one of the few survivors of the 
vanishing group of esoteric clienteles which cotn- 
-menced to go with the abolition of the Albion in 
Drury Lane and the old Occidental in the Strand 
(now the site of Terry's Theatre), the former pro- 
prietor of this latter house, Charles Wilmot, migra- 
ting to Islington, where he built the first suburban 
theatre the Grand. The Gaiety Bar was moved to 
the other side of the road by an improving County 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 91 

Council, and has since been converted into offices- 
for the Mariconi System. The " Gorgonzola Hall " 
which definition was given to the beautiful Adelphi 
Restaurant by " Dagonet " now shelters the per- 
manent London Publicity Bureau of a British 
Colony. This was once one of the most frequented 
of Bohemian houses, with its huge marble pillars 
like so many blocks of " Gorgonzola " cheese 
hence the nickname referred to above. 

" Romano's " had a curious history. In the late 
'Seventies, a little Italian, named Romano, mi- 
grated from the Cafe Royal at Regent Street and 
opened, next door to one Darmstatter, a worthy 
restaurateur the now famous house in the Strand. 

The original caravanserai was not a very preten- 
tious establishment merely a few tables all down 
the one side of a long corridor, and a passage down 
the other to reach which the customers had to 
traverse the " brasserie " department, once famous, 
for its small aquarium in the window and a couple 
of goldfish, which were the subject of occasional 
humours at the lips of the local wits, who scintil- 
lated in the company of the aperitif patron. 

And what customers they were ! Dukes, mar- 
quises, baronets, racing-men, owners, jockey s,. 
journalists, popular composers, etc., with the creme 
de la creme of the theatrical profession. It was 
here that the late D'Oyly Carte and his one-time 
Savoy partner, Michael Gunn, daily discussed the 
Gilbert and Sullivan problems over a " filet a la 
Romano " and a bottle of wine. It was here that 
"Teddy Solomon" and "Pot" Stephens hatched 
their "Billy Taylor" and "Claude Duval "pos- 
sible oppositions to the Savoy, and where Alfred 
Cellier celebrated the operatic success of his life 
(" Dorothy ") on his return from Australia, to find 
that it was his formerly-produced-at-Manchester 
opera, " Nell Gwynne," with another libretto by 
B. C. Stephenson. H. B. Farnie and Cellier wrote 
" Nell Gwynne " for Boston Brown at the Prince's 
Theatre, Manchester, in the 'Sixties, and it proved 
a fearful failure. Farnie modestly attributed the 
result to Cellier's music ; Cellier, on the other hand,. 



92 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

retaliated that the non-success was due to Farnie's 
libretto. So this artistic liaison sought a literary 
and musical divorce, and Farnie found Robert Plan- 
quette, the " Cloches de Corneville " composer, to 
wed another score to " Nell Gwynne," while Cellicr 
found B. C. Stephenson to attach another libretto 
to his music " Dorothy." Cellier was evidently 
right, for as all the world knows " Dorothy " was 
a huge success, ran for years and made a fortune 
for all concerned, while " Nell Gwynne " spluttered 
out at the Avenue merely a " succes d'estime." 

Many others of like artistic fame found Romano's 
to their daily liking, and associated themselves 
with the history of this edition de luxe of a Bohe- 
mian restaurant, before we ever heard of Savoys, 
Cecils, Ritzs, ct Hoc genus omnc. 

It was here that poor Phil May was to be seen 
daily as he commenced the London portion of that 
brilliant career, which was ended in such a tragic 
fashion. 

So many biographies have been written about my 
dear old friend, Phil May, and so many inaccuracies 
about his original start in life, that a few words 
ma}^ not be out of place as to his earlier beginnings, 
and our first meeting in 1881. Phil, of course, \vas 
a Leeds man, and like his great admirer, Arthur 
Collins, spent some time as an apprentice in theatre 
paint-rooms, in his case at Wilson Barrett's Grand 
Theatre in his native town of Leeds. At that time 
I was touring with " Don Juan Junior," a Royalty 
burlesque managed by Miss Kate Lawler a niece 
of Mr. J. Warden, an old Dublin and Belfast acting- 
manager. Miss Lawler, "en premiere noces," 
became a Mrs. Moon ; her sister Annie married a 
Mr. Archie Keene, a solicitor, brother to Mr. Fred 
Kerr, the well-known histrion. A friend of Phil's, 
the present writer, and the black-and-white artist, 
all three fell in love with a beautifiil girl, and at 
the time both our fears were that Phil would do us 
In at the wedding post on account of his facility for 
painting his love epistles with humorous thumb- 
nail sketches. I tried music notes, but to no pur- 
pose. The other fellow tried some rough drawings 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 93 

(he, too, had a two-tie brush affection), but Phil 
for a time put our noses out of joint. 

Personally, I did not preserve these earlier Phil 
Mays, but my old friend, Fred Storey, who was 
a member of the company, possesses an 1882 
impression of Phil by himself, and also a 
facsimile of the kind of envelope decoration to 
which I have referred, and a series of thumbnail 
sketches in which Phil himself, J. L. Toole, Irving 
and vStorey figure. 

To continue about Romano's. In music-hall song 
and West-end burlesque the little house soon "be- 
came famous ; for in addition to Gaiety burlesque 
references, Saville Clarke in his unique " Adamless 
Eden " skit, music-hall stars of the Vance and 
George Leybourne calibre, and others, brought the 
Strand Bohemian resort to the front, and the charm- 
ing Sisters Leamar were wont nightly to inform 
all and sundry that something happened at " Ro- 
ma-no's, as Papa knows." 

The older resort some years ago was burnt down, 
and there was erected a" larger and more commo- 
dious establishment, which gradually caught hold 
of a new Bohemian clientele, encompassing much 
that is popular in the new Bohemianism in West- 
end fashion, and what an American writer de- 
scribed as " the best shirt-fronted brigade in 
Europe." 

Romano died more or less suddenly. He had 
" organized " for himself a grand dinner at 3 a 
head, and to it came all his friends wine mer- 
chants, cigar merchants, and others. It was a great 
night; but the aftermath to the proprietor was 
Kensal Green. When put to realization, the res- 
taurant fetched ^70,000, mainly through the good 
offices of the solicitor, Harry Wilson, and the exe- 
cutor. The cellars (" the best in London," as the 
" Roman " had it) realized ^20,000 of this, as well 
they might; for Mr. Alfred de Rothschild thought 
it worth his while to pay four guineas a bottle for 
some of the 1789 brandy. 

When poor Romano rebuilt the house, on its 
opening night, Charlie Hawtrey had a couple of 



94 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

friends to supper, and in paying tendered a ten-- 
pound note, out of which the cashier gave him 
change for a fiver. Hawtrey protested, and after 
many expostulations the little Roman came up to 
the actor's table profuse in his apologies to the in- 
dignant custor.'.< r. "It make-a me vera sorry 
Missa Hawtrey you know-a the difficulty of a re- 
opening what-a you call-a new staff, and worse -a 
of all what you call-a new cashier." "No, 
Romano," replied Hawtrey, " same old cashier," 
and out he walked. 

Many a match between peer and peri has been 
hatched at the little house in the Strand, but the 
indiscretion of a couple of footlight fairies in th^ 
early 'Eighties frustrated a wedding which should 
at that time have caused what the papers call " a 
mild sensation." A friend of the Dowager 
Marchioness of supping one night found him- 
self entertaining the two coryphees referred to, and 
in the quaffing of wine one of the ladies rather in- 
cautiously suggested the drinking of Flossie's, her 
companion's, health as to-morrow " on the quiet 
don't you know at the Registry Office " she was 

to wed young Lord only sou of Dowager 

Marchioness - - at present in the Guards. This 
was a facer to the friend of the family, so he paid 
the bill and midnight found him knocking at the 
portals of the Marchioness' residence in Pont Street 
demanding an audience. The butler protested, the 
friend of the family insisted, and when at i a.m. 
he did interview her Ladyship it was only the im- 
portance of the message which assuaged her anger 
at being roused up at such an unseemly hour. 
Drastic measures had to be resorted to, and at 
eight the following morning an anxious mother 
waited on the Colonel of the young benedict's bat- 
talion, and for some reason or other that did not 
evince itself till later on, that young Lieutenant 
was placed under arrest and confined to barracks 
for three days. The wedding did not come off. 

One of Romano's strongest supporters was 
D'Oyly Carte, particularly when the Savoy was 
opened it being found much more convenient to 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 95 

the new house. Carte often laughed when I re- 
minded him of the following story. 

At Liverpool in the 'Seventies he was conducting 
Lecocq's "La Fille de Madame Angot " ; in the 
second act he lost his temper and made a depre- 
catory remark to the band. They immediately 
struck, and refused to finish the opera. The late 
H. J. Loveday, Sir Henry Irving's manager, whose 
wife, Miss Elinor Loveday, was one of the original 
" Josephines " in " H.M.S. Pinafore," was the local 
musical director, and being in the theatre he 
immediately went down into the band room, and 
remonstrated with the musicians, but all to no pur- 
pose. The audience were clamouring, the stage 
waiting, and it looked like returning the money to 
the public, when Loveday said : " Will you finish 
the opera with me as your conductor ? " Loud cries 
of "Oh, yes, certainly, governor! " and the last 
act of " Angot " was conducted, not by D'Oyly 
Carte, but by H. J. Loveday. 

When the band filed out after that evening's per- 
formance the following notice appeared on the hall 
board : 

" The members of the Alexandra Theatre Or- 
chestra are informed that their services will not be 
required after this evening. 

" H. J. LOVEDAY." 

This, of course, was the only way to deal with 
the matter. 

D'Oyly Carte had a penchant at this time for 
writing one-act pieces nearly always to the lib- 
retto of his then secretary, Frank Desprez, now the 
excellent editor of " The Era." One of these little 
ballons d'essai was called " Happy Hampstead," 
and was played a good deal during this tour. 



CHAPTER VI 

First experience as a Journalist In Dublin " Ire- 
land's Eye" "Dick" Dowling -Edwin Hamilton 
Richard "Pigott The "Times" forger Paris The 
Moores (; The Hawk " Its distinguished Staff J. 
Huntly McCarthy, James Runciman, Fred. Green- 
wood, Clement Scott, G. Bernard Shaw, A. B. 
Walkley, R. S. Hichens, Charles Williams and F. H. 
Gribble Changing "The Bat" to "The Hawk" 
How we were Financed Libels at Bow Street The 
policy of Libel Actions Jimmy Whistler and the 
Drury Lane row The new halfpenny journalism 
How Lipski was hanged Chester Ives and the Par- 
nell-0'Shea divorce T. P. O'Connor "The Sun" 
Kennedy Jones, etc. The Kennedy Jones prophecy 
Gladstone Labby " The Evening News " and an 
all-night vigil for " Truth " pulls The Clement Scott 
debacle Its early history " Willy " and the cab 
story About Lord Russell of Killowen The thieves 
at my Hampton Court residence First-night stories 
How Lord Randolph Churchill resigned as a Cabinet 
Minister. 

I FIRST became allied to journalism at the age of 
fourteen when advertising a dramatic club 
which had been started in my father's coach-house 
in Dublin, with an impromptu theatre and scenery 
painted by a budding young English theatre artist 
just then arrived, named Bruce Smith. And thirty 
years after he is painting the scenery and I am 
painting the music for Drury Lane's productions. 
I wrote dramatic paragraphs and gained publicity 
by appeals to three friendly quarters Tom vSexton 
in " The Nation," Edwin Hamilton and Richard 
Dowling in " Ireland's Eye," two Dublin comic 
weeklies, and Richard Pigott in "The Irishman." 
96 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 97 

The first soon became one of the greatest nationalist 
orators of the fighting 'Eighties; the second a 
learned lyrist and pantomime author, now retired 
in the north of Ireland ; the third a leading novelist ; 
and the fourth, the suicide forger of the famous 
concocted letters, which occasioned the Parnell 
Commission. The last time I saw Pigott was in 
the witness box the day before he absconded from 
pending prosecution, and the last time I saw Par- 
nell was on the day after, when he turned round 
Wellington Street and briskly walked with George 
Lewis (now Sir George) to Bow Street to obtain a 
warrant for the forger's arrest. 

Bowling was a real wit. One day we were all 
four Bowling, Edwin Hamilton, J. Fergus O'Hea, 
the artist, and myself in " Ireland's Eye " office. 
Cash was short the till was empty till an old lady 
entered and stated that she was " a subscriber from 
the first, and wanted to pay in advance a year's 
subscription " huge excitement in inner office 
but the lady added, " I should like to see the Pro- 
prietor or Editor and make a suggestion." It was 
mutually agreed that Bowling should accept pro- 
prietorial honour and interview the lady. " What 
can we do for you, madam ? " The lady praised 
the paper. "It was excellent" only had "one 
fault " the cartoons, splendid as they were, " they 
always followed the event they were caricaturing." 
If they could " anticipate the subject," how much 
better it would be. " Madam," said Bowling, " we 
appreciate your kind interest in our welfare. At 
present, however, we find great difficulty in paying 
an Editor and artist, but I arn afraid a prophet 
(profit) is beyond our means." 

A column of theatrical notes signed " Beppo "in 
a paper called " The Citizen " was my next move, 
till I did the previously recorded work in Paris for 
"the " Entr'acte," for which paper I had previously 
been its unpaid Bublin correspondent. Nothing 
journalistic turned up then till 1889, when I met 
the Moores, George and Augustus, in London, re- 
newed an old family friendship and joined Augus- 
tus Moore on " The Hawk," as musical and 

D 



9 S JIMMY GLOVER HLS BOOK 

dramatic critic and general assistant at ^3 a week, 
my evenings being spent at the Comedy Theatre 
in my musical vocation. 

Now it was the habit at one time to level cheap 
sneers at " The Hawk," but it was one of the most 
brilliant organs that ever saw light. Let us see 
whom we had on the staff. Justin Huntly 
McCarthy, James Runcimaii (John A' Dreams), 
Frederick Greenwood, Clement Scott, G. Bernard 
Shaw (then " Corno di Bassetto "-ing in "The 
Star"), a newcomer, A. B. Walkley, R. S. Hichens 
(a young neophyte trying his hand for the first 
time fresh from David Anderson's Journalists' 
School in Chancery Lane), Charles Williams, the 
famous war correspondent, George Moore, the 
novelist, Francis H. Gribble, now equally eminent, 
Alec Knowles " Sir Affable," and many others. 
Not at all a bad staff. 

The circumstances under which " The Hawk " 
came to be born were rather peculiar. For years 
a paper called " The Bat " had been run by James 
Davis " Jimmy " later on known as " Owen 
Hall," the author of "The Gaiety Girl " and other 
successes. " The Bat " was nearly always in hot 
water, and so it came about that " Jimmy Davis " 
disappeared to Paris and left an issue of " The 
Bat " at the eleventh hour on the point of its going 
to press under circumstances already referred to. 
The last issue of the paper was set up, but with 
instructions henceforward to " stop publication." 
This telegram was intercepted by Moore, who had 
contributed a large amount of the then set up 
" copy " of the about-to-be-stopped issue, and he, 
in conjunction with the rest of the staff, brought 
out "The Hawk," using all the matter of "The 
Bat " but merely changing the title, etc., so that 
instead of the paper closing publication, it simply 
continued to appear under another name. The 
immediate financial support necessary as far as 
Moore was concerned was provided in this way. 

Moore had just had one of his many rows with 
people in this particular instance Clement Scott, 
whom Moore had been lampooning in a paper 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 99 

called " Society." Scott insisted on Moore's dis- 
missal from the Olympic Theatre as a condition of 
his entering it on a first night for " The Daily 
Telegraph." Result: Moore v. Clement Scott; 
action for damages, etc. ; the subsequent interven- 
tion of a mutual friend, that good, kind, peace- 
maker, Wilson Barrett, and " C.S." paid over a 
solatium to Moore of several hundred pounds. It 
so happened that these funds had just arrived about 
the time " Jimmy " Davis' " stop publication " wire 
arrived, so on such short capital he ran the paper 
for some months, till a misunderstanding occurred 
with a co-proprietor he had taken in, when he 
resigned. 

Three mouths later there came to him a stranger, 
my friend, F. M. " Pelican " Boyd, who found an- 
other financier, on condition that he, Moore, re- 
turned as editor, so that on Christmas Eve, 1803 
on behalf of Mr. W. Morley Pegge, we bought the 
paper for ^325, made it " hum " for six months, 
and then a Mr. Frank Harris purchased a half- 
share for ^3500, Pegge and Harris ultimately sell- 
ing out to a syndicate for ^12,000. 

To the outside public the paper was seemingly 
always in trouble, but we seldom got caught. Bow 
Street saw us once a month regularly, but we never 
had to climb down, although if we were in the 
wrong we acknowledged it nobly, and we were 
never committed for trial. Once we went there for 
having libelled a new invention called " Linotype." 
Paraphrasing a popular Gaiety song (sung by E. 
J. Lonnen), the attack was headed " 'Ave a Line-o- 
Type a-Long-o'-me." When we arrived at our 
accustomed seats in front of the dock, we made two 
horrible discoveries : first, that the magistrate was 
Sir James Vaughan ; and second, that the principal 
witness against us was Mr Jacob Bright, that same 
magistrate's brother-in-law, the chairman of Lino- 
type Company, a brother of the famous Tribune 
John Bright. Besley, Q.C., bullied, ranted and 
raved, but all to no purpose George Lewis for us 
turned everything inside out, and after a short 
adjournment, the Prosecution withdrew. The attack 



TOO JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

was not against Linotype per se, but merely in the 
compositor interest. How wrong we all were is 
now evident, judged by the enormous position that 
all mechanical type-setting apparatus occupy in 
the typographical world. On another occasion, a 
gentleman got a " fiat " against us. A " fiat " just 
then became the necessary authority to a libelled 
plaintiff before he could obtain a criminal summons 
for libel. It is granted for the Attorney General 
by a Judge in Chambers. Possessed of one of these 
judicial authorities, an aggrieved person walked 
into the Gaiety bar, where he met another per- 
sonality, whose " previous " had also been exposed. 
" I've got a summons to-day against that ' Hawk ' 
chap," valiantly remarked the successful litigant. 
" I'll give him chokey and that's what you. ought 
to have done." " Look here, my fine young 
fellow," was the laconic reply from the likewise 
attacked, but " nolle-prosequi " sport, " don't you 
be too 'asty. What's the odds ? This ' awk ' has 
called you a dirty thief well, what of it ? Who 
reads the beastly rag ? Nobody. Not fifty people 
in the world that we know. You're only called a 
thief to fifty people, twenty of whom don't know 
you and never will very well then, why take the 
paper to Bow Street and get yourself published as 
a scoundrel in every paper to-morrow morning in 
the United Kingdom ? Not me, my good friend, 
not me ! Let sleeping dogs lie." This advice took. 
The Attorney General's fiat was not used, and the 
summons never applied for. 

Really, the paper might never have prospered 
were it not for its enemies, who consistently ad- 
vertised it at their own expense, but the " Jimmy '' 
Whistler affair was our great and real "boom." I 
had written an article on the financial manage- 
ment of a " Fete Frangaise " scandal, and into it 
quite innocently imported the name of a gentleman 
I had never seen, known, or heard of Mr. E. W. 
Godwin and this at the suggestion of an interested 
tradesman. Mr. Whistler, who married Mr. Godwin's 
widow, a fact of which I was ignorant, resented 
this reference. So he hied him to the Beef- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 101 

steak Club to parade his grievance amongst others 
to a sympathetic actor friend, who also had nursed 
a grudge against the paper. There and then the 
Drury Lane incident as to how the Editor was to 
oe ridiculed, was stage-managed. It was the first 
night of " A Million of Money," and in the foyer 
Whistler walked up to the Editor and with a penny 
cane tapped him three times on the shoulder cry- 
ing : " Hawk, Hawk, Hawk, I chastise you ! " in 
the excitement, which only lasted a few seconds, 
the great impressionist fell down, and my epigram- 
matic friend, the clever musician Algernon Lind, 
summed it up tersely in the next day's " Globe " 
with : 

A KNOCK-TRUN IN BLACK AND BLUE 

Only a word in the foyer, 

Only a form on the floor ; 

A popular painter went home feeling fainter, 

And the stalls held one less and one Moore. 

Not so Moore and I. We went home, " did it " 
well, and were rewarded by a pyramid of enter- 
prising journalists who lined the stairs of our busi- 
ness premises, 172 Strand waiting for advance 
' pulls " of what we had to say on the mntter, 
much to the inconvenience of Alfred Gibbons of 
" The Lady's Pictorial," whose offices were on the 
first floor. 

Let me do Moore credit. He had a great insight 
into the real facts of a case. He could tell any man 
on earth the right way to do a thing, but in his own 
case never achieved the desired end. He was a 
Roman Catholic, and in the Roman Catholic Home 
Secretaryship of Henry Matthews (now Lord Llan- 
daff), a murderer named Lipski was condemned to 
be hanged. Lipski was a walking-stick maker in 
Whitechapel. A sordid story of drink, adultery 
and jealousy, ended in his murdering his poor wife, 
by pouring nitric acid down her throat. W. T. 
Stead, on the " Pall Mall Gazette," raised a great 
cabal as to the improbability of the murderer's 
guilt, suggested Lipski's wrongful conviction, and 
the convict's solicitor (the Home Secretary having 



102 JIMMY GLOVER HLS BOOK 

refused a reprieve) went so far as to send a tele- 
gram in the following terms direct to Queen Vic- 
toria at Osborne : 

" Innocent man to be hanged on Tuesday. Pray 
your Majesty's clemency for a few days. New evi- 
dence forthcoming." 

To every one's surprise, but in consonance with 
the sweet nature of the great White Queen, Lipski 
behind the back of the Home Secretary was re- 
prieved for a week. Moore, believing in his guilt, 
went straight to the " Evening News," and obtained 
a commission to investigate the whole thing. Every 
day for the anxious seven days the " Pall Mall " 
brought out fresh facts to prove the innocence of 
the murderer, and Moore sat on the doorstep for 
every new edition of Stead's paper, with which be 
cabbed it to Whitechapel to gain rebutting evidence 
which he published in a later edition of " Evening 
News." Lipski wrote a beautiful letter to the 
" Pall Mall " thanking them for their advocacy, 
and promising to make new walking-sticks for all 
the staff when he was liberated. In the end 
Moore's facts prevailed. The Queen refused to 
interfere further, and the hangman did his work. 

On the scaffold Lipski confessed that he mur- 
dered his wife. 

Chester Ives was a real live entity in newspaper- 
dom, but somehow or other he missed his shot 
ultimately taking his own life in pathetic circum- 
stances. In Parliamentary history he will be 
handed down as the machine which broke Parnell. 
The real reason for the Parnell debacle was ap- 
parent to everybody, but it was a wonder to the 
world that what had been a secret de polichinelle 
for many years, should have come so suddenly as 
a bolt from the blue. But there were vindictive 
influences at work. It was a carefully and diaboli- 
cally manoeuvred coup. It was decided that some 
one should be sent to interview Captain O'Shea for 
" The Evening News," and the exact questions and 
posers which would force O' Shea's hand were all 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 103 

carefully arranged beforehand. I do not blarne 
Ives, to whom the duty was entrusted. He was a 
real American journalist out for blood, but the 
failure of the Parnell Commission had to be fol- 
lowed up with some sort of a coup d'ttat, and so 
it came about that the best and most " honourable " 
way of doing it was through the divorce court. 
This story may invite any amount of contradiction 
I don't care if it does. I have Ives' own ipse 
dixit for its absolute truth. I knew Chester for 
many years, and he was a great and good friend. 

It was during this time that Mr. Labouchere and 
Gladstone had their great row over the non-inclu- 
sion of " Labby " in Gladstone's 1886 Cabinet, and 
many were the efforts made to get advance " pulls " 
of the hearty " Truth " battle of words between the 
two men. The late Horace Voules, the actual 
editor of " Truth," had allowed me to be useful to 
him in an important theatrical scandal case, and I 
received a card from him to go to Wymans', the 
printers in Great Queen Street, to get " not before 
3 a.m.," a pull of the pages of the interesting war 
of political polemics between Labby and Gladstone. 
And this resulted in my sharing half a doorstep 
one night with Sir J. H. Dalziel (the Member for 
Kirkcaldy, and present editor of " Reynolds',") 
who as London correspondent for several Scotch 
papers, was on a like bent. I was promised ten 
pounds for my " pull," and I flew back to the 
" Morning " with triumphant cocksureness with 
the copy, for my prize, but some one had been 
before me, and I found the article fully set up on 
my arrival. Ives, nevertheless, kept his word, and 
paid me that " tenner." 

The " Morning " wandered on till we all found 
ourselves at the " Sun," with T. P. O'Connor as 
editor, Kennedy Jones, myself, and others of the 
" Morning " staff. I was introduced and appointed 
as musical critic through Boyle Lawrence, with a 
similar position on the " Weekly Sun " at a fixed 
salary, and the run of the office for " specials " and 
" extras." One night I caught an " extra." A 
man called at a flat to see a lady of leisure she 



104 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

was out a pretty maid opened the door, the man 
followed the maid into the dining-room, saying, 
" You'll do as well," and tried to assault her. She 
grasped the table-cloth, which had a lighted paraffin 
lamp on it, the result being that the woman 
swooned, the lamp set fire to the room ; the man, 
frightened, ran out of the flat, locked the door for 
supposed safety, and when the brigade arrived, the 
poor girl was roasted and charred to death. I 
heard the inquest was to be suppressed, and saw 
a good " scoop." I cabbed it to Whitefriars Street, 
straight to the " Sun " office, rushed in and burst 
open the door of the newsroom to find Louis Tracy 
and Kennedy Jones in solemn conclave. I tried 
hard to " stop press," but to no purpose. 

" Come with us," said Kennedy Jones, " we want 
you." And then we migrated to the " Rainbow," 
where both Jones and Tracy showed me a letter they 
had just received, the purport of which is quoted 
below. They had both just emerged from 
" Answers " office, where having explained to a 
fair-haired young gentleman the following facts 
that the Harry Marks Syndicate had decided to sell 
the " Evening News," a meeting had been called 
to conclude the sale (I think it was at ,-22,000 all 
in). The original idea that these two pioneers had, 
was to have purchased the paper and amalgamated 
it with the " Sun," and thus there would not have 
been any evening Conservative halfpenny organ. 
The capital of the " Sun," however, was short, and 
in order not to lose an opportunity " Answers " 
was resorted to on the advice of a friend, who said 
" Alfred alwa}^ wanted to dabble in something 
daily-like." Well, the two letters were the same 
in result. Louis Tracy (who had been the acting- 
editor on the " Sun ") was appointed as editor 
and Kennedy Jones as news editor of the " Even- 
ing News," both " at a salary of 10 a week and 
one-eighth share of the profits for seven years." 
Signed "Alfred Harmsworth." " K.J." shortly 
afterwards became Editor. 

I do not know any more good-natured, dominant, 
matter-of-fact, interesting and sympathetic person- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 105 

ality than this Kennedy Jones. And the boy evi- 
dently was father to the undoubtedly great man 
because as every one knows, his has been a Napo- 
leonic guiding hand in the greatest revolution pos- 
sible in the modern Newspaper world. I first met 
him on the " Birmingham Daily Mail." I wrote 
the music of a play produced at Andrew Melville's 
Grand Theatre Melville, father of the present . 
Lyceum Manager. Jones did the dramatic criticism. 
I eagerly sought the morning-after paper for the 
required notice. It was short, sharp, terse and to 
the point. "This play is in four acts," wrote the 
local critic, " the villain wears brown boots in the 
first three acts. If he changed them to black in 
the fourth the play might have a chance of success." 

During an influenza attack while on the " Sun," 
I was " hors de combat " at my flat in Oxford 
Street. Kennedy was the only member of our staff 
who braved possible infection to come and see me 
in my convalescence. Sitting there one night, the 
two of us talked for hours of our future selves. 
Two men a four-pound-a-week musical critic and 
his six-pound-a-week news-editor colleague there 
we sat for hours and settled the affairs of the nation 
from our own point of view. I was very strong in 
Ihose days on the journalistic theory of compelling 
theatrical managers to do what " we," i.e. the news- 
papers, wanted. We talked it out for hours till 
Jones closed the argument and interview with these 
words : 

" James, my sole ambition in life is to sit in an 
office in Fleet Street, press a button to every news- 
paper all over the country, and direct them to tell 
Lord Salisbury we want him to resign." 

The most interesting battle in which I fought as 
a " hidden force " was the Clement Scott debacle. 
Perhaps the greatest critic of the Victorian era, 
Clement had the heart of a child, and the tender 
nature of a woman. He also had tempers and 
moods which could not be justified ; but since his 
death we have felt his loss, and even many who 
had suffered from his scorpion pen admit that the 
amount of good he did to the drama outweighed 



io6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

any of his small prejudices. He was taken off his 
high pinnacle in the public mind, and in the great 
organ of which he was a shining ornament for 
many years, by a sensational trick which had the 
hollow ring of insincerity and bunkum right from 
the very beginning. Supposed to attack the 
morality of the women of the theatrical profession 
in an interview, he said nothing more than he had 
written under his own signature in " The Hawk " 
on August yth, 1888, where his strength was so 
great that he could not be attacked, but personal 
spite had intervened, personal grudges had to be 
worked off, even so far as turning the occasion of 
a complimentary send-off supper to a well-known 
actor into a vehicle of attack and abuse and attack 
again. " C.S." of course had his faults, but there 
are always ways and means of doing the right 
thing, and in my humble opinion this was not the 
right way to do it but let that pass. I am only 
concerning myself with the many humorous inter- 
ludes of this great sock and buskin row. A meet- 
ing of all the leading theatrical managers at a pri- 
vate house passed several hours in discussing the 
exact kind of protest, punishment and excommuni- 
cation which must be dealt out to the offending 
critic, unanimously agreeing that he was not to be 
allowed into any London Theatre until he had eaten 
the leek and lunched in sackcloth and ashes. As 
an " hors d'oeuvrc " the " something- with-burning- 
oil-in-it " treatment was suggested. Unanimously 
carried, all save one. A moody unit sat in a 
corner ; listened carefully to everything, but uttered 
not one word till he was appealed to in the end : 
" You've said nothing, Willy," queried one of the 
party to the actor, husband of one of the drama's 
finest Matrons. " What's in your mind? " 

" Well," said the silent one, " I was just think- 
ing thit when the crucifixion stance is over, there 
won't be enough cabs on the rank outside to take 
all us actor-managers to 15 Woburn Square (Scott's 
residence) to assure ' Clemmy ' that ' we ' were not 
agreeable to the resolution, and only joined the 
others pro forma." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 107 

And so it was, four cabs drove up to Scott's 
house that evening, and each occupant assured 
" my dear Clement " of his own absolute neutrality 
in the matter. As the actor's good lady, who tells 
the story, remarked : "I was never so proud of 
Willy in my life." 

Shortly afterwards, Clement explained away his 
references to the theatrical womanhood of England, 
but for some time he was in sad straits because of 
the " D.T.'s " refusal to allow him to do his work. 
" They say that the managers won't let me into 
their theatres, Jimmy, and they can't afford to have 
the paper denied admission, what am I to do? *' 

"Well," I suggested, "sit down and write a 
nice note to the managers telling them of your re- 
turn from your long holiday, your anxiety to see 
the latest play, which you are so sorry was pro- 
duced in your absence, that you are shortly re- 
suming your work and tell me of one refusal." 
Of course, as I anticipated, not one. Every I on- 
don manager was " glad " to hear of his return, 
and with the coupons all torn off the various tickets 
presented to him, Clement was able to disprove the 
heresy that he was " debarred at every box office 
door." May I say that there was one manager to 
whom he did not write, but even this was discreetly 
arranged through a mutual friend, Edmund Rout- 
ledge, always a friend of the theatre. 

My journalistic experiences led me once to a 
short, sharp and sweet interview with Sir Charles 
Russell (Lord Killowen) future Lord Chief Justice 
of England. I was a witness in one of his cases, 
and was invited to the eleventh hour conference 
which he always had with his client in his big 
briefs. His Junior was a Mr Lionel Hart, then a 
rising young Barrister, son-in-law of Sir George 
Lewis, and afterwards the literary adviser to Sir 
Beerbohm Tree. Russell cross-questioned me as to 
the various points to which I was to testify, and 
then, turning to his client, remarked, " Anything 

more, Mr , before we go into Court? " " Oh, 

nothing," said Mr M , " you have heard of the 

so-and-so incident?" (referring to some new 



loS JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

"fact" which he then related). "Good heavens, 
no! " "But I told Mr Hart," pleaded the client, 
" a week ago." To this the future Lord Chief took 
off his wig, threw it in his Junior's face, -and 
shouted, " Mr Hart, why the - - was I not told of 
this before ! It alters the entire scheme of my 
defence ! ' ' 

Carrying newspaper office humour into my real 
life, often led me into little surprise " facetious " 
acts which recoiled on myself. 

When I first lived at Hampton Court, the local 
Post Office closed at eight every night, and there 
was no telephone service this in 1899 so unable 
to get certain landowner interests to grant the 
necessary wayleaves, I was piqued at being cut off 
from London every night at eight which necessi- 
tated many weary, useless night journeys, all of 
which might easily have been done by wire or 
'phone. Having failed, therefore, in every legiti- 
mate endeavour to arouse a sentiment of commer- 
cial spirit in local Rip-van- Winkleism, I thought 
a little strategy or, as I thought, "humour" 
would prove useful. I therefore published and 
issued this poster, in black and white, all over the 
village : 

IMPORTANT NOTICE 
To BURGLARS, CRACKSMEN, AND THOSE INTERESTED 

IN THE HOUSEBREAKING INDUSTRY 

An area of five miles in this district is cut ofi 
from all communication with the outer world after 
eight o'clock every evening. The undersigned 
wishes to draw attention to the exceptional facilities 
thus provided for practice in the above art. No 
Police Station near for three miles. 

By order, 
JAMES M. GLOVER 
His Mark 
X 

Now, it so happened that about this time a 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 109 

pretty extensive list of my wedding-presents had 
appeared in the local Press. I was suddenly taken 
away to Eastbourne by Arthur Collins to work on 
the pantomime, only to be recalled the next day by 
my wile : 

" Burglars attempted to get into house last 
night; do come back." 

So back I hied me to Hampton Court, to find it 
was only too true ; but a new collie dog (alas ! 
poor Prince) woke my wife up, and she rushed to 
the window just as the marauders, anticipating 
that the dog's barkings would rouse the house, 
were closing the gate quietly. " I'll call the 
police! " shrieked my wife. But they only laughed, 
and one, more daring than the rest, shouted out 
as he politely latched the garden gate, " Tell old 
Jimmy we onl}* called in response to his kind in- 
vitation ! " The incident, of course, caused a small 
sensation in the district, and shortly afterwards the 
unwilling ones gave way, and the district obtained 
its telephone service. 

Of course, impromptu humour of this sort is very 
prevalent on the stage, but one does not, however, 
look for it " off " quite so frequently. First nights 
are generally good times for the ready-made " wit " 
notably in the gallery during serious situations. 

It was about 2 a.m. when the curtain rose on a 
version, many years ago, of " Monte Christo," at 
the Adelphi. The scene was a darkened bedroom, 
an old man discovered sitting beside a bed with a 
lighted candle. Voice from the gallery : "I say, 
mister, we're not keeping you up, are we? " 

And yet another sly shaft enlivened a dull wait 
in a version of " Carmen " at the Gaiety. Miss 
Olga Nethersole on the first night was so " re- 
served " in her love-making that after a long scene 
with Don Jose a pittite shouted out : " I say, missis, 
are we supposed to hear all this? " 

But a serious contretemps may be a step to fame, 
as on the first night of " The Trumpet Call " at the 
Adelphi, when a then unknown actress stood on the 



no JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

stage during a long love-scene. In the midcUe of 
the dialogue all her under-petticoats slowly, but 
surely, slipped to the ground. She calmly lifted 
them up, held them by her side, and went on with 
the scene. The papers the next morning wrote 
columns about the sangfroid of the newcomer a 
Mrs Patrick Campbell. 

In my Fleet Street days I had so many experi- 
ences which are merely local, but in the chaff of 
printer's ink, " sticks " of stuff, " cuts," and otlr>r 
small humours of the composing room, one or rvvo 
serious items crop up. One of these was of very 
great portent at the moment. I had intended wait- 
ing one night at " The Times " office for a friend 
then employed in the sub-Editorial Department. 
Our mutual interest was early-morning breakfast 
at one of the many Fleet Street caravanserai which 
catered for the early-morning ink-slinger. My 
friend entered, and told me to " bide a wee," but 
to my intense chagrin he did not nor did any per- 
son emerge from that office till 5 a.m. A gentle- 
man's carriage alone blocked the way, standing 
still, a shivering coachman, and an equally frozen- 
up horse. Inside that " Times " office was Lord 
Randolph Churchill, who., contrary to all etiquette, 
precedent and common decency, had given to " The 
Times " the first announcement of his resignation 
as a Cabinet Minister, he being then Chancellor of 
the Exchequer. " The Times " people had locked 
everybody in till all the other papers had gone to 
Press so as to prevent the possibility of a leakage. 
And so it was on the morning of Thursday, Dec. 
23rd, 1886, " The Times " exclusively announced : 

RESIGNATION OF LORD RANDOLPH CHURCHILL 
and Queen Victoria did not know. 



\ 

\ 



CHAPTER VII 

Augustus Harris, Knight First meeting He com- 
mence; stage-management on his own ; Lord and 
Lady Dunlo Harris " reforms " the music-hall At 
the Palace How it emerged from bankruptcy to 
bullion With Harris at Drury Lane How Arthur 
Collins saved a situation Operatic experiences How 
Jean cle Reszke "drew" on his own Sending Jean 
" a few seats " Jean's retaliation He takes a theatre 
and produces a play in forty-five minutes Running 
three opera-houses a night How great artistes sang 
at Windsor without salary The Legion of Honour 
" Quelque chose du bon " A medical certificate 
Punting on the river after Melba H.R.H. and the 
omnibus box Harris' ruse Arthur Collins, stage- 
manager Arthur Collins, Colonel Amusing con- 
tretempts Queen Victoria watches Arthur Collins set 
the scenery Mascagni at Windsor Conducts at a 
music-hall How Plancon was " presented " and a 
prima donna was " not " Conan Doyle and " Water- 
loo " How Harris got out of a tight corner General 
operatic remarks. 

A BOY hanging on to my mother's skirts she the 
harpist to those Mapleson and other opera 
companies which visited Dublin in the 'Seventies, 
of which visits I have already spoken I first met 
Augustus Harris when he came to the Dublin 
Theatre Royal as stage-manager for Signer Campo- 
bello (Mr. Campbell, a Scotch vocalist). Cauipo- 
bello had married the great Madame Sinico, j'.ud 
with the scattered battalions of Mapleson 's and 
Gye's London forces, had formed the Campobello- 
Sinico Opera Company, with entirely new dresses 
by Madame Auguste (Harris' mother), who kept a 
in 



ii2 JIMMY GLOVER HLS BOOK 

costumier's emporium in Wellington St'eet, 
Strand. This lady's two sons Augustus as stage- 
manager, and Charles as " regisseur " we?e at- 
tached to the operatic tours mentioned, with power 
to seize the costumes in case the hire-pirclnse 
agreements were not faithfully kept up. I mention 
this because the foreclosure actually took place at 
Rochdale, when Augustus and Charles Harris each 
sat on a large basket of the costumes and refused 
to allow them to be opened or any costume used till 
some instalment was paid. 

This was the first time that Augustus Harris had 
a free hand in Italian or any opera (early experi- 
ence of which he had learned from his father, 
Augustus Harris the elder). The manner in which 
the young stage-manager rated a Madame Piccioli, 
who did the sleep-walking scene in " La Somnam.- 
bula " in a modern white evening-dress and high- 
heeled shoes, left a big impression on my youthful 
mind. (Something similar happened when Mrs. 
Patrick Campbell in " The Bondman," at Drury 
Lane, as a poor child of a hard-up Manx peasant, 
wore high-heeled bronze French shoes in the first 
act). I next met Augustus Harris twenty-five years 
later, when " Druriolanus " came into an opera box 
at the Comedy Theatre (we were playing " Jane ") 
with Lord and Lady Dunlo (afterwards the Earl 
and Countess of Clancarty), who had that day 
settled their matrimonial differences. The lady, 
after a tour as " Belle Bilton " (her maiden name) 
in Harris' " Venus " Company, lived happily ever 
afterwards with the Earl till she succumbed to a 
dangerous operation. 

As children singers in Charles Bernard's Juve- 
nile " Cloches de Corneville " Company, the two 
Sisters Bilton did tours with me in the chorus and 
in a pantomime or two, till as maturer artistes 
they startled the town with : 

" Fresh, fresh, fresh as the morning, 
Sweeter than new-mown hay." 

From this time I used to meet the Drury Lane 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 113 

manager often at the Pelican, at Co vent Garden 
balls, etc., and ultimately he offered me the joint 
and managing musical directorship of the Palace 
Theatre, which was then on the verge of comple- 
tion. To reform the music-hall (he had already 
had experience at the Empire), to give a better 
entertainment, all this was in his mind, and jour- 
nalistically I propagated the " great " gospel. He 
started the Palace with a band of fifty-six and a 
one-act drama called "The Round Tower," by Jus- 
tin Huntly McCarthy. How this was howled off 
the first night, how " the mad policy of a one-act 
drama in the music-hall " was scouted by the Press, 
how the thousand infuriated first-nighters standing 
on the wet December day from 8 a.m. till 7 p.m. 
for their " turn," only to find all the seats booked, 
and how they stormed the circles and took forcible 
possession of the house, and cat-called everything, 
is now history. The Palace dawdled on ; but a 
ballet by Cecil Raleigh and myself, stage-managed 
by Arthur Collins, kept the doors open till an 
eventful night, when Kilyani's " Tableaux 
Vivants " drew the town, filled the theatre's 
coffers, and turned its fortunes. Old Charles Mor- 
ton, brought over from the Tivoli (with a year's 
salary deposited in advance at his bank), did his 
very best to cancel this turn ; but Harris was 
adamant, and some of the directors who had seen 
the " Tableaux " in Paris also stood firm, with the 
result we all know. It was strange that the real 
success should have come owing to one of the turns 
he had originally booked, at the time when Sir 
Augustus Harris had relinquished all practical con- 
trol in the management. 

I migrated from the Palace to Drury Lane and 
opened with " A Life of Pleasure," the principal 
scene of which was a great Maxim gun demonstra- 
tion. This sensation startled London, and on the 
first night Harris had not a single idea how it 
was to end. He had this habit of leaving things. 
Collins fished out some old scene " Cloths " from 
the cellar, made a ravine spanned by a bridge, 
placed a couple of Maxims (one each side of the 



ii 4 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

stage) and with " Lights out " aud Cimmerian dark- 
ness let go the guns, which Harris had never seen 
rehearsed. The effect was magical, and to no one 
so much as to Harris, who, standing in the wing, 
suddenly lowered the curtain and in a moment was 
in front bowing acknowledgments to as huge a call 
as I ever heard. This play was followed by one of 
his greatest failures, " Robinson Crusoe," the only 
Boxing Night he ever missed at Drury Lane in his 
thirteen years' regime. Everything tended to 
failure. Harris was sickening fast, Henry Pettit 
was taken ill, and died on the Christmas Eve, a 
fact which drew away the attention of his Brother- 
in-law, Harry Nicholls, who was writing the panto- 
mime. The shock told so much on " Druriolanus," 
that he took to his bed for eight weeks the first of 
his " warning " illnesses. 

The opera season at Covent Garden was my next 
move, and not being allowed to conduct during the 
" Grand " season there (although " Faust," " Caval- 
leria," and " Carmen " and other works fell to my 
lot in the " off " time) I, to use Harris' term, 
became " Administrateur Musicalc." This meant 
anything taking the superfluous singers to the 
Crystal Palace or Brighton in " Flying matinees " 
drawing cheques, translating the contracts (all in 
French), and generally making myself useful in 
fact, anything that came along. A short speech in 
front for a voiceless prima donna carrying a mes- 
sage to the omnibus box used by the Prince of 
Wales accompanying a song for a " trial audi- 
tion " writing off a few paragraphs for the Press 
all was grist which came to my mill. This opera 
season was the first in which my friend Neil For- 
syth had absolute control in front at Covent Gar- 
den excepting in the initialling of the free list, 
F. G. Latham having just left. This initialling 
business Harris insisted on doing himself for one 
season only, and it was in this capacity that he 
administered his famous rebuke to Jean de Reszke. 
Jean insisted on opening in Massenet's " Werther " ; 
it was a failure, but the famous tenor would not 
admit it. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 115 

Now one of my many duties was to assist in re- 
cording the number of " appearances " of each 
artiste for the future programmes, and keeping a 
check of the number of nights that each singer was 
to sing; so on Harris' suggestion we put up Jean 
de Reszke and Calve in " Faust " for the Saturday 
following the failure of the " Werther." I told 
Jean as i was directed. He protested, said that he 
must have a second " Werther " his idea was that 
a single performance would be admitting failure 
adding, " I will draw, if the opera doesn't." 
Harris consented nialgre lui, but was very sarcastic 
about Jean's " I will draw." I generally Lad 
authority to open all letters up to midday in case 
anybody fell ill, so when on this Friday Harris 
came down and said, " Anything important, 
Glover?" I quickly replied, "Only a letter from 
Jean for his usual javeurs de claque." This was a 
sort of courtesy to every "star," that they should 
have a few seats well-distributed in the house for 
their friends, to lead off the applause and " en- 
cores " at the right moment. I could not feign 
them ; at this period Forsyth could not sign them 
either, and Harris was annoyed at the suggestion 
when Latham left that he did not personally man- 
age his own business and so he insisted on personal 
signature of all free seats. So to Teddy Hall, the 
veteran box-office keeper great Radical and friend 
of W. E. Gladstone the impresario resorted, 
shortly returning, his arms bulging with " paper." 
" I'll show him what he can draw on his own," 
and dumped a huge cargo of free tickets on to the 
table. Now, twenty-four hours before a Jean de 
Reszke Saturday night, nearly every bookable seat 
ought to have been sold in some operas at pre- 
mium price; but " Werther " was dead as an attrac- 
tion, and when the manager went to the Box Office 
the sheet was quite bare, over and above the usual 
Saturday night season subscriptions. The opera 
director sat down, called for some huge envelopes 
into which he hastily and nervously shoved the 
bundle of " billets de javeur," and then wrote his 
own letter : 



n6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

HI on cher Jean, 

Auec plaisir. Voila quelques billets pour 
domain soir. Si "oous auriez besoin d'autres 
ecri-vez un petit mot ]e vous envoie 140 Fauteuils, 
150 Balcons, ct soixante amphitheatres. 

AUGUSTUS HARRIS 

" I'll show him," he muttered with a wink, 
" what he can draw." I remonstrated. I advised 
my master that Jean might retaliate. Artistes after 
all are only human, and I saw in my mind's eye 
that as we were bound to have the great tenor for 
several 3^ears a little diplomacy would be necessary 
as trouble could easily and naturally arise. This 
actually came true ; the fact that Tamagno had 
made a success in the interim lent additional flame 
to the fire. 

The next season, at the end of its third week, 
when we were very hard up for a good tenor and 
really depending on Jean to pull us through, Jean 
wired that his voice was " fatigued," and that he 
was " en -vacance " at Mont Dore, and to Mont Dore 
poor " Druriolanus " had to repair in August to 
catch the Polish Tenor and make his promise for 
the following season, which he did, a promise he 
faithfully kept. Artistes who depend on uvulas, the 
caprice of glandular affections or the varying 
laryngitis troubles must be humoured, and nobody 
knew this better than Augustus Harris, and that 
any sort of doctor's certificate excuse would carry 
any contract either way. But he wanted his little 
joke he got it and paid for it. Jean was a real 
good sort and a genuine humourist. Often to while 
away a long entr'acte he and Edouard or Pran9on 
would sing in their broken English " Annie 
Rooney " or " A Little Bit off the Top " on Juliet's 
tombstone in the last act of Gounod's opera. 

Harris, Collins and myself one Saturday evening 
were going out to dinner. " Where shall I take 
you two boys to dinner?" queried our host. " Don't 
care," we replied^ "Well," said Sir Augustus, 
"let us go somewhere near the Princess', I own 
the copyright of a play called ' Jean Mayeu.' The 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 117 

Company opens there to-night." So we all wan- 
dered up to Frascati's. We arrived at 6.50 and 
ordered three chops. At seven, James Crowdy, the 
then lessee of the Princess', came in. "Hello! " 
said Harris. " We're coming to see your show to- 
night." "The devil you are! " said Crowdy, "I 
don't know if there is going to be any show. Old 
story. Company arrived from Russia, bankrupt, 
early this morning _ and not haviig received their 
last month's salaries, have refused to appear. I 
have spent a large amount in advertising and keep- 
ing the theatre ready for them, and now I don't 
know what to do," Crowdy went on. "I must 
shut up, and have the theatre on my hands at the 
rental of ^120 a week empty." 

" Nonsense ! " said Harris. " Have a whisky and 
soda." Crowdy sat down in a despondent attitude 
mentally totting up all his liabilities. Suddenly 
Harris almost in the same breath burst out, " I tell 
you what I'll do 60 per cent, to me I'll take the 
company over 40 per cent, to you for the house. 
Is that agreeable? " This meant that Harris would 
pay all the artistes, so we were not astonished when 
Crowdy jumped up. "Right! " cried the aston- 
ished lessee, and at 7.25 (the curtain was announced 
to rise at 7.45) the great impresario walked on to 
the stage of the Princess' Theatre, then filled with 
a howling mob of penniless, defrauded French 
artistes, and his first words were " Qu'est qu'il-y-a 
mes amis ? " I never saw a more bewildered crowd. 
In a moment or two a timid voice cried, " Eh, men, 
'monsieur, c'esi bien facile qui est-ce-que nous 
payera nos cachets?" and all stood anxiously 
awaiting the reply. 

" Moi," ejaculated Harris. " Ring up, Collins." 
And just in the space of forty-five minutes 
he had taken over another theatre. " Jean 
Mayeu " was a frost, and for one solid 
month those artistes appeared at Covent Garden 
treasury. But incidents of this sort were 
nothing to this great director, who in one 
evening would do the English premiere of Verdi's 
' Falstaff " at Covent Garden a production of 



uS JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

" Siegfried " with Max Alvary, the great Wagnerian 
tenor at Drury Lane, and " Cavalleria " and " Pag- 
liacci " at Windsor for Her Majesty the late Queen 
Victoria. His Eastern commercial artfulness and 
tact never failed him. 

The frequency with which the late Queen Vic- 
toria " commanded " performances at Windsor 
rather worried him. What with special trains, 
scenery, and dislocation of casts, he generally was 
out several hundred pounds over and above the fee 
allowed by the Royal authorities. When, however, 
the Queen wished three Command performances in 
ten days, it was too much, so he sat down and per- 
sonally wrote a very nice letter to Sir Henry Pun- 
sonby. This brought a most sympathetic reply 
from the Royal private secretary, armed with which 
Harris immediately called on Calve at the Savoy. 
He pointed out that her salary was too much to 
allow him to count the Royal Command as "a per- 
formance " in her contract, a matter of about 80 
or ;ioo, that Her Majesty had commanded " Caval- 
leria " as an opera, but no particular artistes, and 
therefore he " was very sorry," etc., but he must 
do it as cheaply as he could and put in artistes 
" Payes par la quinzaine " and not " Par represen- 
tation." Calve protested. Harris insisted, but in the 
end relenting, suggested that she might write a 
letter to Sir Henry, stating that the honour of sing- 
ing to the Queen of England was so great that she 
would not think of charging a fee. Calve took the 
bait and hastily scribbled the required epistle which 
was to the effect that the honour of singing " devant 
la Reine d'Angleterre " was so great, etc., that she 
would offer her services as Santuzza. " What a 
gracious thing it will be, ' Homage from a French 
artist,' I'll send this immediately," said our mana- 
ger, pocketing the coveted document, and off he 
went. The despair of De Lucia (the Turiddu), 
of Ancona (the Alfio), of Plan9on who was Jupiter 
in "Philemon," also " Commanded," at being told 
the same thing was awful, but and there was a 
large " but " added Sir Augustus, " if they cared 
to do as Calve had done it would be a pretty com- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 119 

pliment," and he very soon found himself the 
triumphant possessor of four letters, all of which 
he immediately took down to Buckingham Palace. 
The exact amount thus saved on each performance 
was ^300. 

The Covent Garden impresario spent a lot of 
money in France. French plays, operas, ballets, 
and artistes benefited to an enormous extent out of 
his exchequer, so that he thought at one time the 
" Legion d'Honneur " might justifiably come this 
way. He was a little piqued that he did not get it, 
but somewhat solaced when the Duke of Saxe- 
Coburg and Gotha (our Duke of Edinburgh) gave 
him a decoration after the short season of the Saxe- 
Coburg Company at Drury Lane. But the French 
ribbon was his pet desire. Now it so happened 
that at Covent Garden we had a prima donna 

named N a, who was in favour with the then 

French President, Casimir Perier. This lady only 
made a " Succes d'estime," at Covent Garden, 
much to her chagrin. She was ultimately cast for 
" vSigna " in Sir F. H. Cowen's opera, which Harris 
was under contract to play at least three times. 
" These English composers," said Harris, " are art- 
ful, they compel you beforehand to play their 
operas three times." After the first performance 
the lady was taken very ill-^-doctor's certificates, 
etc." Loss of voice," " Bronchial catarrh " " Not 
able to sing for ten days." This was all nonsense, 
as she really wanted to sing all the Marguerites, 
Isoldes, and other big roles, which were then distri- 
buted to Patti, Melba, Albani, Calve, Sembrich, 
and others. So we had to find another lady, Miss 
Gherlson, to sing at the second " Signa " perform- 
ance. This incidentally gave us a large amount 
of trouble, and the lady a " short study," as the 
second performance came in a few days following 
the first. Now in the meantime it had been pointed 
out in high Royal quarters that Italy (Mascagni) 
and France (Gounod) had both been " Commanded " 
to Windsor that season, but that England (F. H. 
Cowen) had not had a look in. So to avoid Inter- 
national difficulties, through the good offices of 



120 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

dear Sir Paolo Tosti, it happened that the morning 
after the second performance of " Signa," with the 
accompanying deluge of medical certificates from 
the laid-up Belgian prima donna, the London 
papers officially announced that : 

" Her Majesty the Queen, had graciously Com- 
manded a concert performance of Mr. F. H. Cowen's 
" Signa " at Windsor on the following Monday." 

Then the fun began. Madame N a, the in- 
valided Cantatrice, would be pleased to sing 
" decant la Reine " in fact her cold " was not so 
bad " the doctors had " inaccurately diagnosed 
the matter " letters, telegrams everything to get 
into the cast she had so petulantly abandoned 
twenty-four hours before, but all to no avail. " The 
young artist who came to my rescue at the eleventh 
hour for the second performance must go to Wind- 
sor," generously wrote Sir Augustus. But all artis- 
tic resources being exhausted, then came the part- 
ing shot ! I opened at this time, as I explained, 
all telegrams up to twelve noon, and this was what 
I handed to Sir Augustus Harris the morning of 
the announcement of this Royal Command : 

" Sir Harris, 

" Covent Garden Theatre. 

" Faites-moi jouer a Windsor et j'arrangerai 
quelque chose de bon pour vous avec Casimir 
Perier. 

" N A " 

We had many curious experiences at Covent Gar- 
den, most of which have already appeared in print. 
I am endeavouring only to indite the hitherto un- 
published ones. We once changed the opera five 
times between 10 a.m. and 6.30 o'clock, in order to 
allow the necessary artistes to go to a Command 
at Windsor. From " Cavalleria " and " Philemon " 
at 10 a.m. we got to " Rigoletto " at 12, and then 
we were considering the possibilities of " Lucia," 
and I took the train to Maidenhead, where Madame 
Melba was staying, only to find she was out punt- 
ing So punting I followed up all the reaches and 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 121 

breakwaters, shouting out " Madame Melba 
Mel-ba-a-a," but fruitlessly, so back I came to 
Paddington. By this time it was 4 o'clock, and the 
only thing left was Puccini's " Maiion Lescaut," 
which we decided to do about 5.45, till little Sepilli 
rushed in to tell me that the singers of the eight- 
part women's chorus at the end of the ist Act were 
going to Windsor at 6.30 ; so I 'phoned the late 
W. M. Hart, the superintendent, an old friend of 
Harris', to delay the special till I got in a hansom 
to Paddington, and triumphantly on the platform I 
captured the eight songstresses, bundled them into 
an omnibus, and deposited them at Covent Garden 
at a little after seven. 

Of Harris' diplomacy there are many evidences, but 
he had a negative humour in some of his oratings 
which sometimes led to a great deal of misunder- 
standing. It was a custom to have the opera-house 
done up once a year, and from times immemorial 
it was done by a Mr. Cole ; a letter would be 
written to " Dear Mr. Cole, will you do the neces- 
sary decoration for us this season, terms as before." 
Accordingly, up bobbed old King Cole and the 
thing was done. Now it so happened that for many 
years Mr. Cole had retired from business a fact 
which was absolutely unknown to us ; the letter 
was always forwarded on to him, he came up tc 
town, sub-let the contract, and went down to his 
Devonshire cream for another year with a nice little 
profit to the good. 

We opened the Season in 1894 Monday, May 
i4th with Puccini's " Manon," on a Whit-Monday 
a Bank Holiday. 

May I say here that in reference to this Puccini 
premiere the composer has been rather ungratefully 
critical. He complains that the cast of his first 
opera was not a good one, and Harris' brother-in- 
law, Frank Rendle, has reminded him of the real 
issue : " Manon Lescaut " is an unsavoury subject, 
and was always a failure. Harris wanted to have 
Verdi's " Falstaff," but Ricordi, the publisher, 
made it a sine qua non that unless he took both 
operas he could not have the Verdi work, and to 



122 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

facilitate this arrangement insisted on the entire 
company being imported from Milan. To this 
Puccini made no objection, and even went so far, 
on the previous night when he and I and Sepilli, 
the conductor, supped at Gatti's Adelaide Gallery, 
as to state that he was thoroughly satisfied. Of 
course, these were in the pre-Boheme-Madame 
Butterfly-Girl of the Golden West days. 

But to continue Mr. Cole's story, the British 
workman abandoned his half-done work at i p.m. 
on the Saturday" previous, and among other things 
left half-finished was the omnibus-box used by the 
then Prince of Wales and his party of friends. The 
Monday being Bank Holiday and our opening 
night, we were so busy that we knew nothing of 
this fact until late in the Monday evening, when 
Sir Augustus was sent for, and I believe the inter- 
view which took place between the Royal patron 
and the Theatre Royal manager was far from 
pleasant; but there it was the future King of 
England asked to sit for three hours in a damp 
half-papered box, the ceiling white- washed and the 
wallpaper half-stripped, with the dripping paint on 
the walls ready for the return of the workmen on 
Tuesday morning. H.R.H. was righteously an- 
noyed. Harris, however, did not lose his head. 
He coolly wrote a letter to Maples ; they took it in 
hand the next morning, and had instructions that 
for one whole week something new in decoration 
every day was to be done or something fresh added 
in upholstery or furniture, so that by the end of the 
week the box was almost crowded out. This was 
the other extreme, and the late King was not slow 
to advise the Management of the fact. 

But Harris made many a lapsus which no one 
better enjoyed than himself. One on the then 
much-discussed " pitch question " is characteristic. 

It is not many years ago since Covent Garden 
was the only orchestra possessing low-pitch instru- 
ments. Harris one morning asked me at The Elms, 
his residence in St. John's Wood, how the flute or 
clarinet managed to flatten as required, and I told 
him that they simply had to " pull out " or " push 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 123 

in " a little valvular arrangement to obtain the re- 
quired nicety. We drove on to Covent Garden it 
was the first rehearsal of the season. " Good morn- 
ing, gentlemen," volunteered Sir Augustus to the 
band, " I've had a long letter from Mr. Jean de 
Reszke this morning, and he complains bitterly 
about the high pitch." " Well," said old Carro- 
dus, the leader, " how are we to help it? " " Well, 
you must pull out, dear boy," replied Harris 
triumphantly. 

At Windsor, all sorts of humorous things would 
occur. At one time when Harris would shout out, 
" Is Arthur Collins there? " another Arthur Collins 
would be fetched Colonel Sir Arthur Collins, one 
of the King's Equerries ; again, fearful that any 
one should invade the privacy of the Waterloo 
Chambers while he was arranging the stage, Drary 
Lane's present successful manager gave strict 
orders that " No one was to be allowed in the Hall." 
Seeing a form slowly moving at the back and in- 
specting everything carefully, he rushed down to 
ascertain who had disobeyed his orders, only to 
find that it was the late Queen Victoria herself, 
who came in " Just to have a look round." 

Mascagni at this time was flushed with the suc- 
cess of " Cavalleria," and annoyed at the failure of 
" L'Amico Fritz " and one or two other later works 
to attain the same merit of success. Mascagni 's 
anger was further accentuated by the prevalent 
remark that it was " a fervent hope he would soon 
write another ' Cavalleria.' " I quote this sentence 
as the ipsissima i>erba of general criticism and 
newspaper comment. He heard the cry everywhere 
in the theatre, club, Press, society : " A long wav 
off ' Cavalleria,' " " Nothing like ' Cavalleria,' " 
" Never so popular," etc., etc. Mascagni got very 
much hurt at this, so much so, that at a reception 
given him at Harris' house ("The Elms"), when 
the impresario asked him to conduct a selection of 
the popular work, which was just about to be 
played by the Coldstreams, he point-blank refused, 
but ultimately succumbed to the gentle persuasion 
of Lady Harris. 



124 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Again at the Palace Theatre, when it first started 
as a music-hall, at a matinee given for the French 
Journalists' Benevolent Fund, Harris made Mas- 
cagni conduct against his will the " Cavalleria 
Ave Maria " ; a music publisher's arrangement of 
his Intermezzo which he detested, sung on this 
particular occasion by Calve. Calve and he were 
at daggers drawn, so Harris doubly enjoyed this 
tour de force. Mascagni, who then hated Calve, 
compelled to conduct an " Ave Maria " version of 
his own Intermezzo, which version he did not write ! 
It was great. The more Mascagni refused the 
more Harris insisted. " This performance," said 
Harris, " is for the poor widows and starving chil- 
dren of Continental journalists. If you refuse, 
Mascagni, your name will be anathema all over the 
Continent." And the Italian composer gave in. 
As a sop to Cerberus, Sir Augustus took the com- 
poser down to Windsor a few nights later to con- 
duct his opera there, but even then he was not safe 
from the old " Cavalleria " taunts. The Queen, as 
was her custom, sent to know who would Sir 
Augustus like to " present." " Why, Mascagni, 
the composer, of course." " Druriolanus " had 
gained his point at the Music-hall Palace. He would 
return the compliment at the Windsor Palace. 
To the Royal presence he was ushered the 
usual Royal formalities congratulations, etc., 
and then one parting Royal word; the Queen 
addressing the composer : " Signer Mascagni, I 
hope you will soon write another ' Cavalleria ' " 
(Tableau) . 

Tamagno, when he went to Windsor, sang " Man- 
rico," and everybody knows the big ut de poitrine 
in the last act. The Waterloo Chamber is not a 
large building, and when Tamagno let out his top 
C it shook the chandelier. Asked by Sir Augustus 
if she liked the new tenor the Queen replied : " Yes, 
but must he always sing as loud as he did 
to-night? " He was very careful of his voice this 
great artiste originally an Italian blacksmith ; on 
the days of the nights that he sang he never talked 
from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. All his business correspon- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 125 

dence on these occasions was done on a slate which 
he hung round his neck. 

These Windsor presentations, as I have hinted, 
had many a humorous side. Once Plancon, as 
Mephistopheles, waited to change into his evening 
suit we told him the Queen would not be kept 
waiting, and in the end persuaded him to go into 
the Royal presence with half his make-up on. 

Calve and Sigrid Arnoldson the latter a Dane 
appeared on the same night at a " Command." 
Harris decided to " present " Calve, and did really 
leave Arnoldson out. Now these " Command " 
performances are generally followed by presenta- 
tions of jewellery to all the artistes about two weeks 
after the performance. Arnoldson's husband, a Mr. 
Fischoff (" Fish-hooks " we called him) was very- 
wrath at Harris' neglect; so on the morning after 
the performance, he wrote direct to the then Prin- 
cess of Wales (Queen Alexandra) on the supposed 
" slight " her countiy woman had received at Wind- 
sor. The " ruse " succeeded, for the morrow's 
evening paper contained this paragraph : 

" Madam Sigrid Arnoldson was commanded to 
Buckingham Palace to-day by Her Majesty, the 
Queen, who presented the Danish Nightingale with 
a beautiful diamond brooch in remembrance of her 
excellent performance of ' Baucis ' on Saturday 
Night." 

" Umph ! " said Augustus Harris, " that taps for 
her 'coda,' at Co vent Garden," and he kept his 
word It may be here explained to the uninitiated 
that " coda " is the musician's term for " the end." 

I once called on Harris on the morning after the 
production of " Waterloo " at Bristol, by Sir H. 
Irving. " What is this new play of Irving's ? " 
quoth Harris. " Oh ! " I said, " a one-act piece by 
a young man ol a new school Conan Doyle." 
"Who's he?" "Doyle," I said, "you know- 
wrote those ' Sherlock Holmes' stories." " Holmes 
Holmes Holmes," cried Harris thoughtfully. 



i 2 6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

"Oh, yes, I know didn't he write 'The Auto- 
biography of a Breakfast Table ? ' : (Fact.) 

On the first night of the " Derby Winner " at 
Drury Lane, the wrong animal won. For reality's 
sake, we put the real actor jockey, Harry Evers- 
field, to ride the hero's horse, win the money, and 
secure the natural love ending of the play. But 
the "super" jockey, who had always done this 
sort of work, and had made a stage hit on " Volup- 
tuary " in " The Prodigal Daughter," was jealous 
at being only allowed to hold nightly the winner's 
head till the appointed word " Go." When this 
signal arrived he did " hold " the arranged-for 
winner's head, with the result that the villain's 
horse came in first. This ruined the plot; and the 
play ended to the derisive cheers of the big first- 
night audience, biit the Inveruessed shirt-fronted 
knight was before the curtain in a minute. " Ladies 
and Gentlemen, I know what you're laughing at " 
(huge merriment), "but as a matter of fact the 
winning-post is half a mile off, further down the 
course, and although the villain's horse was in front 
just passing here, I give you my word that Clip- 
stone, at the winning-post, won by a neck ! " And 
thus was a huge contretemps turned into a huge 
success. 

Augiistus Harris had in early life decided that he 
would soon have a shot at theatrical management, 
and as was ultimately the case forsake the business 
office of Erlangers' in Paris, where he was appren- 
ticed, for the more exciting life of the theatre. 
After he left Erlangers' he was retained by Charles 
Wyndhain for stage-management purposes, and it 
was during a visit to Paris that at Wyndham's re- 
quest he sampled " Les Dominos Roses," and wired 
the then Mr Wyndham to purchase the English 
rights, he (Augustus Harris) playing his first ap- 
pearance in London the part of Harry Greenlanes 
in the English version " Pink Dominos." 

Three years before he reached Drury Lane he 
made an attempt to go into management on his 
own at the Philharmonic, in Islington, for I find 
the following letter written to his friend, Jimmy 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 127 

Taylor, a financial adviser of his father's, who 
recently retired from an honoured position in the 
Railway Clearing house. 
The letter is dated from 

" So, Guildford Street, 

" Russell Square, 

" soth July, 1876. 
" MY DEAR TAYLOR, 

" The Philharmonic is to be had very 
cheap, what do you think of taking it and running 
it as a first-class music-hall such as does not exist 
in London, i e . to play two or three little ballets 
every evening? In fact, the same style of per- 
formance as the Alhambra used to give when a 
music-hall." 

(Here follows the business man's keen insight as- 
to ways and means.) 

Rent, Taxes, etc., paid off by letting refresh- 
ments, bars, etc. 



Gas and Limelight .... 20 

Orchestra 20 

Ballet and Company .... 100 

Advertising ...... 30 

Front of House 15 

Working of Stage \ 

Carpenters, props, and I . .20 

Dressers 

Weekly loss on production sold again 

to provincial theatre 10 



" 36 P er night expenses at the most. What do 
you think of it ? 

" Yours truly, 

" AUGUSTUS HARRIS " 

Harris was a good business man but always very- 
touchy about his financial position, which, after his 



i 2 8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Shrievalty, was the cause of much unnecessary and 
unkindly remark. During this period we both 
went one night into Gatti's. " Ah, Gatti," said 
Gus Harris to Agostino, who was sitting at the 
usual family table, " I saw you on a 'bus to-day 
in Long Acre. What's the meaning of that ? " 
" Nothing," was Agostino's reply. " Isn't it good 
to know that one can afford to be seen riding on a 
''bus ? ''' At this time certain busybodies were try- 
ing to circulate rumours about Harris' financial 
position 



CHAPTER VIII 

More about Augustus Harris and Arthur Collins 
The Passing of Augustus Harris John Coleman's 
" interregnum " with " The Duchess of Coolgardie " 
Collins has an "option" to buy Drury Lane 
Harris' humour German Opera and G. B. Shaw 
band Sore-throated singers and sore-headed authors 
Harris and his first backer His experience with a 
" serio lady" in Glasgow He writes a cheque on the 
back of a French menu for half a French play His 
fortune. 

ON Monday night, June 22nd, 1896, Augustus 
Harris passed away at the Rxn^al Pavilion, 
Folkestone. There then departed from this life one 
of the most peculiar, popular, and genial personali- 
ties that the British theatrical firmament has ever 
known. His life has never been written, and I arn 
not making any atlempt to Boswell the " Drurio- 
lanus " of the 'Eighties and 'Nineties. It was 
through the Yokes family going on strike on Febru- 
ary 3rd in 1879 that Harris came into Drury Lane. 
The exact notice which then closed the theatre was 
as follows : 

" Owing to a combination of unforeseen circum- 
stances, this theatre is unavoidably closed for the 
present. 

" F. B. CHATTERTON 

" (Sole Lessee and Manager) " 

And it was through the uncertainty of the Gye- 
Mapleson-Lago campaigns that lie acquired Covent 
Garden in 1888. Again, in a letter to James 
E 129 



130 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Taylor, the friend of his father's, whom he seems 
to have consulted on all his important ventures, he 
says 

" DEAR TAYLOR, 

" I have taken Covent Garden. The only 
person I have to fear is Sir Michael Costa." 

Sir Michael Costa was very bitter in his likes 
and dislikes. He objected once to Mapleson offer- 
ing Offenbach a position as conductor, and his 
hatred for the elder Augustus Harris led him to 
make the following reference to the younger one, 
who was standing on the stage one day. 

" Who is that young man ? " he said to Mapleson, 
for whom the future " Druriolanus " was acting as 
stage manager. " He seems to know his business, 
but I think I heard you call him Harris. Can he 
be the son of my old enemy? " 

Mapleson tried to explain away the fact, but 
Costa would not have it, remarking that " the father 
has shown himself my enemy, and I am the enemy 
of the son." Nice sympathetic man, Costa. 

Early in Harris' career he encountered a young 
actor named Arthur Collins, who had previously 
been apprenticed to Henry Emden, the scenic artist. 
Collins had already served an apprenticeship in 
Carter's Seed S tores in Holborn, but when he joined 
the Hai'ris regime, he was first sent on tour to play 
eight parts a night in " Human Nature," and later 
as stage manager of a pantomime that Harris was 
running at the Grand Theatre, Glasgow. From 
there to Drury Lane was a quick transit, and for 
many years before Harris' death experience had 
shown that the real man behind the wheel was un- 
doubtedly the present managing director of the 
famous house. When Harris was taken seriously 
ill at Folkestone, the possibility of losing his old 
chief so prostrated Collins that on the day of the 
impresario's death he went home ill, tired and 
broken-hearted, and was not at the theatre at night 
when the sad news arrived. Personally, I was 
anxiously awaiting the dreaded news at Gatti's, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 131 

with the two brothers, Agostino and Stephano, 
Boyle Lawrence and Fred G. Latham, when the 
" Daily Mail," to which Lawrence was attached, 
'phoned it through about n o'clock; but the first 
intimation that came to the stage manager was a 
telegram to his flat at 3 a.m. 

" Meet body at Charing Cross at eight." 

This prostrated Collins for some weeks, but time 
was getting on, and the executors in due course 
gave him an option to purchase the theatre with 
no time limit (this was rather important) and 
the proviso that an interim drama season " The 
Duchess of Coolgardie " by John Coleman, and a 
pantomime on Harrisian lines, taking over the 
existing Harrisian engagements, should be done by 
the Executors. 

On the first night of the Coleman drama, poor 
old John might have been heard in front of the 
curtain, thanking " kind friends in front for the 
dear, delightful reception of my play," and hoping 
that he " may be permitted to tread in the foot- 
steps of his late dear friend, Augustus Harris, for 
many years to come in the G-r-a-n-d old National 
Theatre," etc. 

Now, at this time, young Mr. Collins was walk- 
ing up and down the scene dock with an option to 
buy Drury Lane in his pocket. 

Harris had a great humour, and allowed all about 
him even to tell stories at his expense, generally 
joining in them with a good relish. At the time 
that he acquired (after the original production by 
The Carl Rosa Company) " Hansel and Gretel," he 
was rather amused at the tiresome iteration of the 
Woodman's song with its senseless " Tra-la-la," 
and one evening he remarked, " Glover, why can't 
1 go and live in a wood free from all my worries, 
and loll about all day singing ' Tra-la-la '?'' So 
Arthur Sturgess and I immediately sat down and 
mapped out a burlesque on " Hansel and Gretel," 
making the principal part a retired Inverness-caped 
impresario who had sold out all his effects and only 
wanted to bask in the beautiful sunshine. Harris 
was delighted and loved to sing : 



133 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

THE SONG OF THE THEATRICAL MANAGER. 

(Resting-) 

" I'm tired of the garden, I'm sick of the Lane, 

Of operas and dramas and such ; 
Too much pantomime isn't good for the brain 

And I've had a great deal too much. 
With ballet rehearsals my life is a curse, 

No minute can I call my own ; 
And so I've decided before I get worse, 
To dally with Nature alone. 

Tra-la-la (ad lib) 

" I've twenty new plays to produce in a week, 

The 'panto' rehearsals are nigh; 
I've critics to conquer and speeches to speak 

And Heaven-born actors to try, 
But let them all wait, I'm tired of such things 

A manager's heart isn't stone, 
And great is the joy and relief that it brings 
To frolic with Nature alone. 

Tra-la-la (ad lib)" 

Then I woke up one morning, alas ! to find, to 
the intense grief of the entire world, that the 
theatrical manager was " resting " for evermore, 
and the painful applicability of the foregoing verses 
accentuated the fact that the two people concerned 
in its authorship were, with almost fatal supersti- 
tion, humorously making reference to the cessation 
of work which, if acted upon, might have prolonged 
the life of one of the greatest theatrical impresarii 
of the Victorian era Augustus Glossop Harris, Kt. 

As I have remarked, the most marvellous thing 
about his work was the fact that the distribution of 
all his vast wealth was at every point and corner 
punctuated with a vein of humour and a light- 
hearted touch which made the greater the work 
the greater the pleasure for everybody concerned. 
May I recall one or two humorous incidents of that 
great era of management ? 

Shortly after the production of "A Life of 
Pleasure," being in want of a leading man for the 
provincial tour, an agent sent to Drury Lane a 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 133 

popular provincial favourite, with this admonition : 
" Don't be afraid to ask a lot of money. Harris 
will like you all the better for it." Arrived at 
Drury Lane, the provincial Thespian put on his 
best airs and graces, and in answer to a query as 
to terms said, " Well, Sir Augustus, I think I'm 
worth 30 a week." "What? Thirty pounds a 
week for a provincial tour ? You must be mad, 
dear boy! Mad! ! What do you take me for? " 
A long pause, and then suddenly came the reply. 
" But then," said the actor, remembering his 
agent's admonition, " you see what I'll draw, Sir 
Augustus." " Draw," thundered the impresario, 
"Draw! Do you know that I can hire a Maxim 
gun for fifty shillings a week that will draw the 
whole of London? " 

On the following Saturday in the same season we 
did the " Valkyrie " at Drury Lane in German, 
with Max Alvary and Frau Klafsky, Herr Lohse 
conducting for the first time in England. Harris 
prided himself on the band always a big Wag- 
nerian desideratum, and as the blind Earl Dysart, 
Chairman of the Wagnerian Society, had inter- 
viewed us on the subject he was over anxious on 
this score and noticing G. Bernard Shaw (then 
musical critic for "The World") talking to me, 
called me aside and asked me to introduce him. I 
didn't quite know Shaw's point of view, and as 
he had been railing at me for reinstating him on 
the first-night sheet, asserting that I had spoiled his 
holidays, and that he only came because the dying 
Edmund Yates in handing him the tickets did so 
with a kind of " Be-kind-to-Harris-my-last-dying- 
wish " look paused. Harris noticed Shaw's 
hesitation, and placing himself between us took 
the initiative: "How do you do, Mr. Shaw? 
Glover tells me you are old friends. What do you 
think of the opera to-night? " " Oh, very good/' 
replied England's future dramatist, " very good " 
and then a lull. A long deadly pause. Harris 
looked at Shaw. Shaw looked at me a silence 
to be broken by the not-to-be-denied manager. 
" And," continued Harris, " what do you think of 



i 3 4 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

the band yes, the band ? Isn't it splendid ? " I 
saw it coming. Another long pause. Another look 
at me, and Shaw thus pushed in a corner said, 
" Yes, they're not bad not bad but I think 
they've wonderfully deteriorated since I heard 
them last on the Sunday boat going to Hampton 
Court." 

There are two reasons why Harris purchased the 
" Sunday Times " of which he was one time the 
Proprietor with James Willing. One was that it 
had been suggested that he did not collaborate 
substantially in those dramas in which his name 
appeared as Collaborator, and having issued a writ 
against one paper the " World," I think which, 
on this question, went so far as to state that he 
could not write anything, he immediately became 
the Proprietor of the " Sunday Times," and pro- 
ceeded to write a column of notes every week on 
anything and everything, headed " Here, There, 
and Everywhere," and signed it " The Knight 
Errant." " When the trial comes on," he remarked 
to me, " I will produce the original MSS. of these 
articles for twelve months, and then what price 
my writing anything?" He afterwards sold the 
" Sunday Times " to Mr. Lewis Edmunds, K.C., 
for a Mrs. Beer. The second reason why he wanted 
the " Sunday Times " was that he took umbrage at 
a notice in the " Referee " about one of the Drury 
Lane productions, and Henry Sampson then doing 
the Handbook on the front page, let the Knight of 
Drury Lane have one of the severest dressings down 
that journalist has ever administered to player. 
A rather humorous contretemps occurred subse- 
quently with the " Era " when Harris thought that 
he had a splendid opportunity of getting his own 
back on the " Referee." As a result of the 
" Referee " criticism the Drury Lane advertise- 
ments were withdrawn from that paper, and at 
this time Mr. Edward Ledger, the proprietor of the 
" Era," had inserted a critical paragraph about Sir 
Charles Wyndham, the good taste of which was 
resented by all the London managers, headed by 
Sir Henry Irving. It was then decided as a protest 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 135 

to make a wholesale withdrawal of all the London 
theatre advertisements from the " Era," and on 
Harris being asked to co-operate and remove his 
various enterprises from the " Era's " advertising 
column he made it a sine qua non of his doing so 
that the London managers should likewise support 
him in his action towards the " Referee." This of 
course they all refused to do and so it came about 
that six of London's leading managers one Sunday 
morning announced in the " Observer " that they 
had that day withdrawn their support from the 
" Era." This was one of the many little battles of 
peevishness which in those days more or less 
amused the theatrical world at large, but now we 
have grown more open-minded, and " brotherly- 
love," if it does not universally exist, at least is 
not battledore-and-shuttlecocked about so much in 
public. 

But it is strange to reflect how all these mana- 
gerial whims run in grooves. It was thought that 
Augustus Harris was the first manager to own a 
Sunday paper, but he was only emulating his 
Drury Lane predecessor, E. T. Smith, who in the 
'Sixties was the proprietor of the very same 
" Sunday Times." But Smith even went farther in 
his managerial eccentricities, for he stood for 
Parliament and went down into Bedfordshire and 
opposed the Duke of Bedford, his own landlord's 
nominee, in a general election. He polled 101 and 
lost ^2000. 

In a wonderfully sympathetic and graphic 
manner, my friend Mr. Clement Scott used to 
describe the starting of Drury Lane and the dis- 
covery in Hyde Park of one of the gentlemen who 
originally helped Harris in his finance. This friend 
invited young Harris home to dinner, and it was 
a peculiar irony of Fate that that dinner, whereat 
he was lent ^250 to start serious theatrical life, 
took place in the very house where all the success- 
ful Harris Drury Lane pantomimes and dramas 
were concocted, and was at the time of his death 
his residence. 

The gentleman in question (it is no secret) was 



136 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Mr. Frank Neck, who subsequently sold him his 
St. John's Wood house, " The Elms." When 
Harris went into Opera at Convent Garden, he 
bought his partner out, as he said, " Neck and 
crop " for ; 1 2,000. 

There was nothing he enjoyed so much in life as 
a joke against himself. One evening, entering a 
place of entertainment in Glasgow, called " The 
Garden of Eden," in company with Arthur Collins 
and a well-known actor, Mr. Victor Stevens, a lady 
performer thought that the three had laughed im- 
moderately at her singing. As a matter of fact, 
the Drury Lane trio were not laughing at the lady, 
but at the situation for to keep off the nightly 
intrusion of a rowdy gang of Glasgow students the 
manager had erected iron bars in front of the foot- 
lights and the ludicrous situation akin to the per- 
forming bear at the Zoological Gardens tickled the 
risible faculties of the manager and his friends. 
The lady, however, took the ridicule as personal, 
and later on in the evening when she came among 
the audience to dispense chocolates and cigarettes 
a portion of her nightly duties she " went for " 
the scoffers as follows : 

" Just like three pro's, who come in on the nod, 
to come here and ' guy ' me ! I know } 7 ou, Mr. 
Victor Stevens " (this to the well-known actor) ; 
" And nobody could mistake you ! " (this to 
Collins); "And I'm certain you're an actor too! " 
(this to Augustus Harris). This was too much for 
Gus, he ceased his volcanic hilarity, immediately 
jumped up, clasped the bewildered artiste by both 
hands, saying : " Thank you, madam, for those few 
kind words ! I have been called a great many 
things in my life, but this is the first time I have 
been called an actor." 

In Paris, Fred Horner took us, Harris, Collins 
and Self, one night to see " Champignol Malgre 
Lui," with a view to Sir Augustus buying a 
half-interest therein, which he did as he liked the 
piece so much ; and we had supper afterwards. In 
the middle of the supper, Horner anxiously ejacu- 
lated : " What about the money and the contract, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 137 

Sir Augustus?" "Money, Contract!! Bring me 
a pen and ink " (this to the waiter), and taking 
up the menu in the Cafe de Paris, he wrote 
across it : 

" 1 hereby purchase half all rights in ' Cham- 
pignol Malgre Lui ' for ^300." 

He then tossed it back peevishly to Horner and 
said, " Take that to Drury Lane on Tuesday morn- 
ing and they'll give you a cheque. De Reszke, 
Melba, and hundreds of others never had a contract 
with me. The word of ' Sir Harris ' was always 
good enough for them." He was hurt at this, and 
three days afterwards sold out his interest in the 
play. 

This was quite true. There was no man whose 
word was more universally taken. The day 
following his death Neil Forsyth and I walked 
down to Coutts' Bank to adjust matters, as we 
found that at least ^3000 of cheques had not been 
passed through which had been in the hands of 
Calve, De Reszke, Melba, and other artistes for quite 
a number of days. 

As I have just mentioned Fred Horner the follow- 
ing episode in connection with his short Parlia- 
mentary career may not be out of place. 

In our theatrical way, we often had to help one 
another apart from financial assistance. During 
the 1900 Khaki election, Fred Horner, then a 
London Parliamentary candidate, appealed to 
Arthur Collins to lend him some Khaki uniforms 
for supers to handbill and canvass the district on 
the Surrey side. This might be a " corrupt 
practice," but Collins good-naturedly sent the future 
M.P. to Morris Angel's in Shaftesbury Avenue, 
and in due course on the morning of the election 
fifty supers were patrolled in uniform on the 
Thames Embankment opposite to Scotland Yard to 
receive instructions for the election campaign, 
which embraced an area in the Southwark district 
over Westminster Bridge. Now Colonel Brookfield 
(Charlie Brookfielcl's brother) had just then got an 
Act passed making it an offence for any one to 
ridicule or use the Queen's uniform other than a 



138 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

man in the service; so when the candidate arrived 
at Westminster Bridge he found the fifty supers 
more or less under arrest for degrading the service 
cloth. Explanations followed, they being liberated 
on all their names and addresses being taken, so 
off they went electioneering. The war being just 
then over, as each one of them entered various 
hostelries in the Southwark area they were received 
as " back from the war," feted, wined, beered, and 
incapacitated for their work. The uniforms never 
turned up again, and it is said that four of the 
group are missing to this very day. 

When Augustus Harris decided that the big 
scene in a pantomime should be " The History of 
England in Twenty Minutes," he would not take 
Collins' word that it was impossible, and Collins 
was right, for on the first night it lasted one hour 
and forty minutes. It was the most tiresome yet 
humorous thing to rehearse that I ever experienced. 
" W T here's Joan of Arc? " shouted Harris. " Gone 
to the Albion," a neighbouring hostelry, " with 
William the Conqueror," replied the call-boy. 
" Oh, Henry the Eighth, for goodness' sake do look 
as if you really had eight wives ! " "I cawnt, 
guv'nor," replied Henry the Eighth, " I've got one 
at home and she's a packet I can tell you ! " 
Then the first night came and everj^thing went 
well till we got to Charles the First. " Charles 
the First where is he?" Nowhere to be found, 
and so we had to pass on without Charles the 
First. " Mr. Dick could not keep Charles the 
First's head out of his memorial," wrote Mr. 
"Spectator" Walkley in "The Star," "but Sir 
Augustus kept his head, body and shoulders out 
of the History of England." When Arthur Collins 
rushed out and burst into the dressing-room to find 
the missing monarch and give him " instant execu- 
tion," Charles the First was with Cardinal Wolsey, 
with his legs crossed sitting on a table playing 
cards and smoking a cigarette, for he " didn't know 
it was so near." 

Shortly before his death, we had a supper party 
at Gatti's to an old bachelor friend on his 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 139 

marriage. Across the menu card, in response to a 
request for his autograph, Harris wrote : 

" To all of this a long farewell 
And so say all of us." 

He little knew how soon the sands of Father 
Time would run out in his own case. 

Harris really died a very rich man. His estate 
realized about ^100,000, for it included Drury Lane 
four years' lease to run; Theatrical scenery; 
Opera scenery bought by Covent Garden Syndicate ; 
" The Little Genius " production; various sundries; 
and, of course, his copyrights were all good negoti- 
able effects. 

To mention Drury Lane and Augustus Harris 
without a reference to the famous Yokes family 
would be an unpardonable oversight, for it was 
during Chatterton's last pantomime at Drury Lane 
when the "ghost did not walk," and the celebrated 
Yokes Family struck, that the Theatre closed, and 
ultimately fell into Harris' hands. The brothers 
A. and S. Gatti were at this time running a panto- 
mime at Covent Garden, and being financially sound 
they were better able to weather the terrible snow- 
storm of 1879 which led to the great Chatterton 
" frost." Harris did not bear any ill will towards 
the " family " and immediately retained them for 
his first season. 

The Yokes Family were one of the cleverest and 
most talented troupes of the mid-Victorian Era. 
They came out of the old Surrey School, and 
consisted of Victoria, Rosina, Jessie, and Fred. 
Victoria and Jessie never married, but Rosina 
became the first wife of that dear old Bohemian and 
English gentleman Cecil Clay, brother of Frederick 
Clay, composer of " She wandered down the 
Mountain Side " and " I'll sing thee songs of 
Araby," who, it may be remembered, died suddenly 
after the production of his opera " The Golden 
Ring " at the Alhambra. 

Poor Fred Yokes was a wonderful dancer, and 
also a very fine black-and-white artist, and I have 
several specimens of his pen-and-ink work one of 



140 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

which is of exceptional interest. As we were both 
watching the Jubilee procession of Queen Victoria 
in 1887 at Liverpool, a catastrophe happened to a 
triumphal arch shortly after Her Majesty had passed 
through. Fred immediately sketched the situation 
in my presence a remarkable piece of fine work ! 

The family had a repertoire of very humorous 
one-act plays, and in the interim seasons between 
pantomime times toured the provinces. As their 
musical major-domo I spent many years with them, 
and scoured the country from John O 'Groat's to 
Land's End. 

I remember once poor Fred, who was mad on 
yachting, elected to sail from Plymouth to Torquay 
rather than accompany us by the usual train route. 
Arrived at Torquay, we found the door of the 
Theatre besieged with a huge crowd awaiting 
admission, but Fred was nowhere to be seen, and 
without him we could do nothing. So we had to 
return the money a matter of about eighty pounds 
much to the public disappointment. A hue and 
cry was started for the missing dancer, but nothing 
heard till dusk set in, when distress rockets illumin- 
ated the skies over Torquay Bay. Out went the 
lifeboat, to return about 3 a.m. with poor Fred 
tired to the world from excessive rowing and 
starving with hunger the yacht had got becalmed 
in the Channel. 

On another occasion they lashed him to the mast 
of a fishing smack, and he had to be ransomed by 
his own manager for ^5 the purchase-money of a 
boat of some hundreds of mackerel he had ordered 
to be sent home to his dear mother, " because she 
liked to get it fresh." To wander on the harbours 
of fishing villages and buy huge consignments of 
this sort of goods was a perfect madness with him. 

We generally spent the entire day boating, row- 
ing, driving, or enjoying ourselves in some fashion ; 
anything like serious thought never entered our 
minds. Of three musical directors, two at least 
were famous poor Hamilton Clarke, who was with 
Irving for many years at the Lyceum and Sidney 
Jones, composer of " The Geisha," " San Toy," 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 141 

etc. Clarke was a military band-master once, and 
in nearly every case did the " overtures " for the 
Sullivan-Gilbert operas. Sir Arthur has more than 
once acknowledged this. One of the pet jokes of 
this company was harmonized versions of the 
sayings, " Oh, what a liar you are! " and " Well 
I'm d d." The first of these was done in four- 
part harmony. We usually paraded the towns in 
quartettes. We seldom divided. On entering any 
hostelry, hotel, or other public place, we generally 
found some great Isaak Waltoniau expert a 
" when-I-was-out-in-the-Indian- Jungle " Bombastes 
or some actor who " drew a hundred pounds a night 
in Hamlet." So we set out to amuse ourselves at 
the expense of these little life's vanities so prevalent 
at health-resort bars. The procedure was simple : 

Scene : The Royal Hotel, Southport. Smok- 
ing room full of visitors. New 
week-end arrival tilting a tooth-pick 
with the bar Hebe, and sipping a 
gin-and-bitters, " Don't-you-know." 
N.W.E.A. Yes, deah ! I remember quite plainly 
we went fishing on the Tay and do 
you know that one day I caught ten 
salmon weighing forty pounds each. 

(Now by this time we i.e. the Vokes quartette, 
may have entered the bar and caught the last line, 
of might have been sitting waiting for our prey; 
so on the words " Weighing forty pounds each " 
one of us Hamilton Clarke, Sidney Jones or the 
present writer would hum a sort of la-la-la-la in 
the octave to give the pitch, and the glee party 
thus led off chimed in : 



Oh, what a li ar you are ! 



142 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Of course, this usually brought some sort of remon- 
strance " What the devil do you mean,_how dare 
you ! " but it all ended in hospitality and 
business.) We varied this refrain with a shorter 
one in unison, to be used when we had to go out 
in duets or trios. It was-: 



$ 


T* 


^ 


== 





Well, I'm d Shish 1 

While on one of the Yokes' tours living with a 
good old friend Sidney Harcourt, at the end of a 
week in Edinburgh the landlady charged us a 
shilling for the " cruet," i.e. mustard and salt, etc. 
We at first refused to pay, and she locked us in 
our room till we ultimately did so, too late, how- 
ever, to catch our train, so we had (in order to be 
in time for our engagements at the next town) to 
charter a special, at a cost of nine pounds. That 
was the dearest pepper and salt I ever enjoyed. 

Then again one night in Dublin on a Lord Lieu- 
tenant's " Command " night, an ex-Lord Mayor, one 
of the Iveagh family, Sir Benjamin Guinness, the 
proprietor of Guinness' XX Stout, entered the 
Royal Box. " Three cheers for the ex-Lord Mayor ! " 
shouted a gallery jackeen. " No, Larry," replied 
a kindred spirit, " three cheers for the XX Lord 
Mayor." 

Once when I was on tour we opened at East 
Grinstead with Charles Collette to discover that we 
had no band, its place being taken by a grand 
piano on which I had to officiate. During a dance 
the legs of the piano gave way, and pinned me to 
the floor, and had it not been for the turned-in legs 
which kept the heavy instrument a few inches from 
the ground, both my pedal supports would have 
been irretrievably crushed. 



CHAPTER IX 

How Arthur Collins floated Drury Lane His many 
disappointments Invalid, peevish, and recalcitrant 
stars Leno and his humours " Born " and " made " 
Leno and Campbell fall out of a balloon " G.G.'s" 
telegram The early discovery of Leno and its later 
bearings The old pantomime and the new The old 
whistling top gallery Spectacle, humour, and music- 
hall turns Civic honours. 

THE one believer in the future Drury Lane was 
its present managing director. He received 
from Augustus Harris' executors an option which 
passed through many vicissitudes. It was yearned 
after by dozens of people, City syndicates, actor- 
managers, vStock Exchange speculators, et hoc 
genus omnc. The eleventh hour arrived in due 
course (time was, naturally, the essence of the 
option), and although there was no date for com- 
pletion, he foresaw a crisis imminent, and it duly 
arrived in the form of a request from the 
deceased manager's executors that the sum of one 
thousand pounds would be required in forty-eight 
tours on account of the purchase, to keep the option 
alive (this option carried the remainder of Harris' 
lease and the entire theatre equipment, lock, stock 
and barrel) . One thousand pounds ! ! ! None of us 
had it, or knew for the moment where to find it. 
At last, on the eve of the expiry of the option, we 
were all fearfully anxious to keep the historic 
house in its present hands, it came about that 
Arthur Collins found a good fairy with the requisite 
four figures, and into the executors' offices in 
143 



144 JIMMY GLOVER HLS BOOK 

Victoria Street entered " Druriolanus II." and his 
solicitor. 

" One thousand pounds ! " requested the legal 
representative of the executors, Lady Harris, and 
Mr. Frank B. Rendle, her brother. 

" My cheque for the amount," replied Arthur 
Collins as he sat down and wrote out the famous 
document. This was not quite what was antici- 
pated, as it was thought that the first " refusal " 
would fall through, and that the second option 
in the hands of Mr. Oscar Barrett, who had been 
associated with the Interregnum pantomime 
would be exercised. But it was so, and thus for 
a second time in its career the passing over of 
Drury Lane from one management to another was 
sensationally carried out remembering in 1879 
Chatterton's failure, the Voices Family strike, lead- 
ing to Harris' triumphal entry and subsequent 
successful regime. 

Arthur Collins stuck to his guns. All sorts of 
proposals and suggestions were made to him by 
people who knew nothing about " how to run the 
Lane," but he has adhered to his policy good 
drama and pantomime and the result has been 
amply justified for fifteen years, a record of which 
successes appears at the end of this volume. The 
first play was " The White Heather." We opened 
on a Thursday night. On the Saturday following, 
when all England was hailing the success of the 
new regime, something went wrong with the 
hydraulic lift used in the lock scene. The large 
cylinders burst, leaving an enormous cavity of 
hundreds of feet deep fast filling with tons of 
water. A huge house of about five hundred pounds 
cash value was waiting impatiently for the rising 
of the curtain and commencement of the play, 
which ultimately had to be abandoned, the audience 
sent away, and the money returned. But we were 
faced with a novel situation. Nearly all the money, 
owing to the great success of the play, was 
" booked money," i.e. monies taken beforehand at 
the booking-office pit and gallery excepted and 
I had to go on, at the request of Arthur Collins, to 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 145 

explain that all the receipts would be returned or 
se^ts exchanged for another evening. But \ve were 
in\his horrible dilemma : we had hardly any ready 
cas. to return ! It was all banked early in the 
day. So out into the by-ways and surrounding 
stree$ Collins despatched the various heads of the 
staff-all well known and trusted in the district 
to tin Hummums and Tavistock Hotels, Globe,, 
GattiX Romano's, or any hostelry where we were 
identified some of us hatless and top-coatless in 
pelting tain proffering our own hastily-writtea 
I.O.U.'s f or gold, silver, and even copper any- 
thing, soVmg as it represented bullion which we 
carted bac\ (nearly all in pewter measures) to re- 
turn to an vnxious, naturally excited mob, one-half 
of whom suspected trouble, and the other half sus- 
pected a hug^ advertising " coup." A new manage- 
ment! ! a htch on the third night!! something, 
wrong? any hazardous surmise was attempted. 
But nothing Zv'ix wrong, and thus ended the only 
breakdown that ias ever taken place at Drury Lane 
about which the ^tdience knew anything, or which 
prevented the already advertised performance. 

One of the moat impressive incidents during 
this scene of managerial anxiety was dear old Mrs. 
John Wood kissing Arthur Collins and telling him 
all would be right on Monday, what time I was in 
front explaining the " Accident." We always sus- 
pected treachery here, because a few nights later 
the goldfish used in the lank for the great diving 
scene were poisoned, and had we not found it out 
in time, the best situation in the play would have 
gone wrong, and a second contretemps in one week 
would not have done us any good. 

The present management has really had some 
first-night trials with artistes which would have 
soured a different temperament, but they have been 
stolidly faced and conquered, all with a charitable 
good humour and optimism. We rang up one 
Boxing Night without " a Principal Boy." But 
the lady in question, that clever conscientious 
artiste, Miss Nellie Stewart, insisted on coming^ 
down to show herself to the management and 



146 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

personally explain her hoarseness and offer to " pill 
through," but her own representative, Mr. Ge^'ge 
Musgrove, stood in her dressing-room, insisted -hat 
she was ill, and refused to allow her to go on. And 
she did not, her part being taken by Miss lollie 
Lowell at a moment's notice, who was hanc^d, as 
he came off the stage, fifty pounds that sane even- 
ing by the grateful manager for her opportune 
services. 

Nellie Stewart had made a success in a previous 
pantomime as Ganem, in " The Forty Thieves." 
From New York on Boxing Night her hisband sent 
'her a telegram : 

" As you come on for heaven's sale smile and 
.look pleasant." 

Another Boxing Night contrctemprwas when Miss 
Amelia Stone (principal girl) faint-'d at the end of 
the first part, and could not cont'nue the perform- 
ance. The next day Mr. Colins' lady typist 
gallantly went on and read the part. Yet a third 
was when Mr. Harry Rand?d caught cold on 
Christmas Eve and had to stp off ; and a fourth 
was when another artist annoyed at being required 
to speak his lines correctly after four weeks' 
rehearsal " walked out o r the theatre " the day 
'before the dress rehearsal, i-C. on Christmas Eve. 
His offer to return on Boxing Night was not 
accepted, and as there ^ras a negative clause in his 
-contract, he had to cool his London heels for twelve 
weeks at a loss of an average hundred pounds a 
week twelve hundred pounds. That is what I call 
Napoleonic management. 

I often wonder why it is that actors who take 
large salaries in musical productions do not know 
the double duty they owe to both manager and 
public. It is an insult to the public and a breach 
<of faith to the other the manager not to do your 
"business properly, and at least learn the lines set 
out for the general excellence of the performance. 
'The author is always entitled to a run for his money 
with his lines. To cut them out or substitute 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 147 

uigrammatical drivel is dishonest, disgusting, and 
disheartening. " Gag," the interpolated impromptu, 
in i^ason is, of course, useful, but the greatest of all 
muscal plays, the greatest succession of all suc- 
cesses and the greatest classics of the light music 
drains have all been achieved by adhering strictly 
to theVuthor's lines I mean the " Savoy ' library, 
and ye\ because the distinguished litterateur in- 
sisted o\ this natural prerogative, he was always 
slanderously represented as a very disagreeable 
person. Vever was such calumny ever invented. 

Dan LeV> started with the Collins' regime at 
about ,So week. He finished at ^240 for twelve 
performances, i.e. 20 a night. Although this looks 
princely, it $ really a small fee. It is the general 
impression tl\at Leno " improvised " everything at 
Drury Lane. Never was there a greater error. 
Leno was a " bailder," but without an " architect " 
he could do nothing. Nearly everything in which 
he succeeded at *he Lane he was " written for." 
Every song he worked was supplied him by his 
own pet poet, Herbert Darnley. I don't say this 
in detriment to Harris, but Leno's successes with 
Harris were as nothing compared to his triumphs 
with Collins. Harris let him come on and simply 
" be Dan Leno." Collins thought out the Leno> 
style, and gave him the Leno material for the Leno 
triumph. Every funny situation or scene was built 
for him, first by the producer, and then written 
round by the librettist. He had the least initiative 
sense of humour of any one I ever met ; once pro- 
vided with the material he had the best contributory 
and constructive power. He wanted " cut out " as 
being useless nearly every scene which has made 
his great fame and the pantomime share of our big 
dividends. A few cases in point. One has only to> 
remember the horse-poisoning scene in " The Babes 
in the Wood," or the airship scene in " Mother 
Goose," or the company promoting scene in " The 
Forty Thieves." Each of these effects, which shook 
London with legitimate laughter for weeks and 
weeks, Leno condemned as " unfunny " at rehearsal ; 
but Collins was adamant, and when these inter- 



248 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

polatious had succeeded in drawing all Loncbn 
and made the Metropolis laugh for months, the 
manager's discretion was justified. But the Jttle 
comedian could really " build " on any Leno-sque 
-structure, and in this way lay his peculiar a)ilit} 7 . 
One Leno pantomime under Harris was quoted 
as the comedian's biggest success, but the rranager 
lost ;8ooo. 

He had a most wonderful, artistic vanity, which 
once led him into a curious juxtaposition with the 
late Sir Henry Irving. The Lyceum knight was a 
.great admirer of the pantomime man, and the 
admiration was well reciprocated. Rw of the 
public who often went to the Tivoli -O find that 
" Owing to sudden indisposition Mr Dan Leno 
would not appear " were aware that tie " indisposi- 
tion " took the form of two stalls for himself and 
"his wife at the Lyceum for some new Irvinesque 
play. 

Of all the Irving repertoire that he liked, 
"' Richard III." took his fancy best, and as the little 
man was a bit of an artist a fact which very much 
assisted his make-ups he rnanaged to develop a 
fairly good portrait of the hunchback king for a 
prize dress at one of the Covent Garden Balls, and 
there one thought it might have ended. 

Not so Leno perhaps is was a symptom of the 
future debacle, for Dan made up his mind to appear 
as " Richard III." somewhere somehow and 
quite serously. Now Irving always looked forward 
to the Theatrical Fund Benefit at Drury 
Lane as his one annual personal enjoyment of the 
Drury Lane funny man. So when he told his 
dresser not to let him " miss the incomparable Mr. 
Leno," the Lyceum actor soon found himself stand- 
ing in the prompt entrance at the Drury Lane 
matinee till Leno's number went up. What was our 
astonishment to find that the little comedian, in- 
stead of rushing on and asking everybody, " Do you 
know Mrs. Kelly?" or the Soliloquy on Eggs 
<( there are eggs (two kinds) : Eggs and Election 
gg s " or other gems of his humorous repertoire, 
walked straight on, seriously made up as " Richard 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 149 

III," and equally seriously ladled out a soliloquy 
frora that work. Protest was useless; Irving stood 
in the prompt entrance annoyed dumbfounded 
and almost disgusted, for lie was soon to follow on 
the same spot at the same matinee with " The 
Dream of Eugene Aram." Leno wandered on; the 
audience sat aghast as he gave certain supposed 
" imitations " of the great Lyceum tragedian by this 
time white with rage in the wings, till at length, 
realizing the awakening of the audience to the real 
portent of the pitiable scene, Leno suddenly grasped 
the situation, did a double shuffle (a dancer's step), 
advanced to the footlights and said to me, " Play a 
hornpipe, Jimmy," and Richard the Third went off 
to roaring laughter, doing the old college hornpipe. 

Sandringham ruined him. He never recovered 
from his visit to the late King Edward's party. It 
is reported that his visit came about in this way. 
The Duke of Fife, selecting a play for Princess 
Maud's birthday festivities, decided upon 
" Scrooge," with Seymour Hicks from the Vaude- 
ville. " But," said Dan in telling the story, " His 
Majesty wanted something more funny. ' Ah, ha ! 
there you are! ' said the ' Dook,' " i.e. the Duke of 
"Fife, continued Leno, " ' Scrooge ' is something 
Iunn3% but something to make the children 
laugh ? ' ' This may or may not be true, but it is 
on record that the Queen did ask for "the funny 
man from Drury Lane," and so it came about that 
Leno was requisitioned. 

About this time Leno stuck exclusively to port 
wine, and after the Sandringham performance, while 
lie was dressing for supper, one of the King's 
Equerries asked him his taste in liquid refreshment, 
suggesting some fine old port vintage " we have in 
the Royal cellars." "Ha! ha!" said Leno, 
delighted, " that's me a bottle of fine old port not 
too much crust on it my teeth are bad." 

One of Dan's best stories was about his wife who 
made the pancakes, but instead of frying them in 
the pan, fried them on the gridiron " all went into 
the fire don't-you-know, burnt." This story some- 
how or other went very flat at Sandringham, so 



150 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

when the Equerry returned with the requisite pert, 
he remarked as he rilled the comedian's glass, " I 
say, Mr. Leno ha-ha-ha you must not be down- 
hearted at the pool way that pancake joke of /ours 
went ha-ha-ha ! You see, none of these people I 
must laugh ever saw a gridiron in their lives, 
but I saw the joke oh, dear, Mr. Leno, do excuse 
me for you must know I have seen a gridiron 
ha-ha-ha it really was funny! " 

One more instance may be pardoned of his great 
powers of grasping a situation when it was pre- 
sented to him. He always wanted to try and 
preserve the dramatic unities. He would take every 
play that he appeared in seriously from the drama 
point of view. To see him arguing with Herbert 
Campbell as to why Jack did climb the beanstalk, 
or as to the true inwardness of Bluebeard's real 
homicidal tendencies, or the inconsistencies of 
Mother Goose really possessing a goose that laid 
twenty-two carat gold eggs these were really 
sublime moments. 

A Mr. Milton Bode engaged him to tour a sort of 
musical play called " Orlando Dando," and Leno 
made it a stipulation that he should only attend the 
last week's rehearsal, so the previous three weeks" 
preparations had to take place in his absence. The 
first scene was in a barber's shop ; the hero the 
title-role played by Leno was a hairdresser. On 
the first morning that the comedian did attend, 
rehearsal there was great anxiety as to what his. 
real opinion would be as to the merits of the play- 
as a vehicle for his humours, and he was asked to 
make any suggestion to improve his part. I think 
therefore, I had better put what occurred into actual 
dialogue form. 

SCENE A Barber's Shop. The whole act is gone- 
through with Leno watching it and making notes, 
as he went along. To him, on the stage, crowd, 
round Milton Bode, the manager, Captain Basil 
Hood the author and this dialogue takes place : 

LENO : I see, we have the opening chorus of fifty 
ladies and gentlemen in my barber's shop. 

CAPTAIN HOOD : Yes. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 151 

LENO : Then the two lovers meet and arrange a 
love meeting, and sing a long love duet in my 
barber's shop ? 

MILTON BODE : Yes, quite right. 

LENO : Then we have the Four High-Kicking 
Flappers of Tillerland; they do their number, and 
get a well-deserved encore in my barber's shop ? 

BODE : Yes. 

LENO : Then we have three or four more 
choruses, a rollicking quartette, a patriotic song, 
and, in fact, everybody who is anybody comes on, 
does what they like make appointments, do what 
they like with the till, dance, sing songs, do breaks 
downs all in my shop! 

BODE : Yes, Dan, that's quite right, and it all 
only lasts one hour, this act. 

LENO : But don't you think it about time that 
I shaved somebody ? (Tableau.) 

With us he was always assisted ably and con- 
scientiously by dear old Herbert Campbell. Herbert 
was a good stand-by, and we miss him every year. 
He had, however, a horrible objection to chaff. A 
wire broke one night in the airship scene, and 
dropped Leno and Campbell on to the stage just 
a shaking up. Campbell's twenty stone fell first, 
Leno's eleven stone on top of him. Had it been the 
other way about the results might have been dis- 
astrous. The papers were full of it next day, when 
there was a matinee performance, for which George 
Grossmith had provided himself with a private box. 
George wired Leno and Campbell : 

" Dear Dan and Herbert. Do please fall out of 
the balloon again to-day. I want a good laugh. 
" GEORGE GROSSMITH " 

" D d silly rot ! " said Herbert. " Might have 

been a matter of life and death so silly to joke 
about such a thing. Push off the Pier, Sons of 
Phoenix all." " Push off the Pier," was a slang- 
ism for " drinks-round " always used by Campbell 
as an alternative to " have a cup of tea." " Sons of 



152 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

the Phoenix " is a philanthropic Tontine Society 
who carry on large excursions in the summer at the 
seaside, and for whose charity smoking concerts 
Herbert was always generously useful. 

Every one knows that Leno came from the Surrey, 
via Charlie Hawtrey's " Atalanta " at the Strand. 
Hawtrey heard of the Surrey success, which also 
caused Augustus Harris to engage him. He played 
in the second edition of " Atalanta," with the hand- 
some Alma Stanley, and made a first-night failure 
into a quasi second-notice success; but Manchester 
claimed the beautiful Alma for the pantomime, and 
Drury Lane claimed Leno. As the present writer 
described it at the time : 

" The booking went up, up, up. 
They threatened to draw the Town, 
When Alma and Leno 
Were not to be seen-o 
The bookings went down, down, down." 

Alma Stanley I now find has developed into a 
clever Suffragette lecturer, and is fit and well. 

The Drury Lane pantomime has wonderfully 
metamorphosed in the last three decades. From 
E. T. Smith, 1862, to Chatterton, 1879, and on to the 
present day, the three periods have been instructive. 
It is ridiculous for people to state that pantomime 
has declined. It has not declined ; it has only 
changed but increased its public. In Chatterton's 
time, the " Opening " was quite a modest affair, 
and was once produced in September, and the 
harlequinade which was added on Boxing Night 
became somewhat more elaborate ; but Chatterton's 
public was a few rows of five-shilling or seven- 
shilling stalls, a huge eightpenny pit, and a seeth- 
ing mass of sixpenny and fourpenny galleryites, 
who cat-called the " opening " on Boxing Night till 
not a word on the stage was heard. The shilling 
pit and the sixpenny gallery boy shouted the latest 
music-hall songs. The better educated audience of 
to-day is not the chorus-singing urchin or patron 
of the 'Seventies. The top gallery disappeared under 
the London County Council during the end of the 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 153 

Harris management, and the stalls on Boxing Night 
have developed into a kid-gloved army of dilettante 
patrons, across whose apathetic well-dined and 
gloriously-gloved personalities it is a far run to get 
to the pit for a good honest round of applause. Few 
people were ever able to account for the Early 
Victorian hissing of " God Save the Queen," at 
Drury Lane Boxing Night, till it was discovered 
that the one siffleur was purposely put there to 
arouse the loyalty of the entire house which ulti- 
mately drowned with patriotic cheers the strains of 
" Rule Britannia." This accounts for the tradition 
that in a Drury Lane pantomime alone is Rule 
Britannia allowed to follow the National Anthem. 

Twenty-five years wandering over the British 
Isles, many weeks aye, months I might say, never 
having slept in the same bed twice, having 
explored every hamlet or village in my professional 
capacity, from John o' Groats to Land's End, I one 
morning woke up to find myself the full-fledged 
mayor of a South Coast watering town. 

How it came about is past, and local, history, but 
if I say that in combination of twenty-four aldermen 
and cottncillors, at least twenty-one were my 
esteemed friends and that the remaining three were 
"Anti-Glover" in local politics, it will seem suffi- 
ciently Irish if I say that it was the minority who 
forced my election to my municipal dignity. 

The most interesting attribute of a mayoralty in 
my mind is the two years' ex-officio magistracy 
which it automatically confers. 

I must say that I always had an ambition that 
way. " Get out of mi way, ye blag-guard," shouted 
a Lord Mayor, Charles Dawson (in private life a 
baker), one day, when he drove to the Mansion 
House in Dublin, to a loafer who stopped his Lord- 
ship's carriage. " Ah, go on wid ye, ye twelve 
months' aristocrat!" retaliated the jackeen. So 
did I often have an ambition to be a " twelve 
months' aristocrat," and so it was achieved in 1905. 

London dined me with T. P. O'Connor, M.P., in 
the chair, and Marshall Hall, K.C., M.P., in the 
vice-chair, and I felt that I had at least done some- 



154 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

thing more or less out of the way for a travelling 
musician. 

I gave no banquet on the day of my election, 
postponing it till a later date, when my dear friend, 
Hall Caine, came down to honour me so I gladly 
accepted the invitation to dine that evening with 
the Mayor of Eastbourne. 

" I beg your pardon, sir, but do you mind the 
King wants to speak to you on the telephone." 

This remark, which was made to me by a waiter 
at this municipal banquet, was the first humorous 
experience that I had of the real responsibilities of 
my mayoral office. I hurriedly gulped the remain- 
ing mouthful of " Sole-a-Za-something," and rushed 
to the instrument, to find that having had a 
message of thanks for the Mayor of Bexhill from 
Sandringham, from His Majesty (to whom the 
Council had that day sent the usual birthday con- 
gratulation), the postal authorities refused to de- 
liver the same unless to the Mayor personally ; so 
I " took it off the 'phone." I then prepared to take 
my new office very seriously. 

It is one of the prerogatives of a South Coast sea- 
side town, that no matter what endeavour in the 
way of good you may make, some one will disagree 
with you and even go so far as to inundate you 
with anonymous letters giving you their opinion 
of your worthlessness. This at one time, previous 
to my mayoralty, became rather a nuisance; and 
as I had been given to understand that locally it 
was a common custom, and the locals attacked 
could not afford to retaliate, I made up my mind 
to scotch it once for all, which I did in a very simple 
way. The anonymous letter blackguard very soon 
fell into my hands, so I wrote the following reply 
to the Editor of the local paper in answer to this 
" courageoits " person : 

" SIR, 

" If your correspondent is not ashamed of 
the name that his mother gave him, and will kindly 
subscribe it to his scurrilous effusion, I may think 
it worth while to reply." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 155 

Of course, having told all his friends to look out 
for what " Glover says next week," this local 
Jeremiah pest soon ceased ; but the desired effect 
did not last for long, for the moment I became 
Mayor, my " friend " favoured me with one more 
not too complimentary, but a perfectly innocuous 
"personality." I have a preference for dressing 
myself to suit the climate. Ninety degrees in the 
shade rather leans me towards immaculate white 
ducks and suchlike tropical attire, and although my 
adipose tissue, since remarkably diminished, was 
not the kind which lends itself to a favourable 
exposition of the very fine delicacies of form, still I 
managed, with the help of a good West-end " snip," 
to decorate my mayoral presence in a more or less 
becoming manner. This, however, gave very great 
umbrage to the anonymous friend, and he celebrated 
my mayoralty by emerging from his seclusion once 
more, and letting me have another specimen of the 
" Polite Letter-writer." Here it is : 

" How dare you walk down Devonshire Road " 
(BexhilPs leading street) " in white ducks you, 
who look more like a pork-butcher than a 
musician? " 

Now I have many excellent pork -butchers in my 
acquaintance, and they, like their chops, are de- 
cidedly thin ; therefore I could not quite grasp the 
point of this humour. 

Another experience was rather of an amusing 
nature. It was as follows. The Mayor is ex-officio 
a member of all the committees, and these include 
the Fire Brigade. A habit had arisen of borrow- 
ing the escape for the purpose of doing some five 
or six-story house-painting, and it was thought 
advisable that it should be understood that the 
escape should not be borrowed except with the 
permission of the Chairman of the Committee or 
the Mayor. What was my astonishment, then, to 
get during the dress-rehearsal of the Drury Lane 
pantomime, on Christmas Eve, the following 
telegram : 



i 5 6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

"May we borrow the fire-escape? There is some 
trouble at Little Common " (an outlying district) 
" and we may want it." 

" Holy Moses ! " as Conn the Shaughraun would 
say. I jumped out of the orchestra in the middle 
of the big scene. Arthur Collins thought I had 
gone mad. I rushed up to the telephone, had a 
feverish quarter-of-an-hour to get through, and then 
only found that the possessor of a very high school 
wanted some decorations laid out for some Christ- 
mas Day celebration, and as the majority of the 
fire brigade were local builders, he had retained 
them, and they required the fire-escape to use as a 
ladder. 

It was during my year of office that the great 
" Limerick " craze existed, and perhaps some of the 
most humorous incidents arose when I was selected 
as a " Limerick " judge for a popular weekly. A 
last-liner managed to send in the following, with 
knowledge no doubt that the musical aptness would 
appeal to me : 

" Wagoners, carmen, bend their backs low and 
grin." The line was made to read : 

" Wagner's ' Carmen ' bend their Bach's ' Lohen- 
grin.' " And for this I awarded 20. This brought 
me a flood of protesting correspondence ; but per- 
haps the most amusing was a gentleman an 
important London musician who wrote me and 
said : 

" May I draw your attention to the fact that 
Wagner did not write ' Carmen,' and John Sebastian 
Bach, the poor old cantor of Leipsic, was dead 
before any of them lived, and did not write 
1 Lohengrin ' ? I am stirprised at a man of your 
eminence in the musical profession not knowing this 
before ? " 

It is therefore dangerous to joke or " Limerick." 
In the course of this Limerick-judging the 
personal took a large place, and from them I find 
that I have been a bigamist, an adulterer, a wife- 
beater, a polygamist, and every possible unpleasant 
thing that one could imagine. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 157 

But one I must quote the last from a gentleman 
who wrote from the North of England, and said : 

" At the meeting of all the important inhabitants- 
of this town, convened at the ' Bull and Thrush,' the 
following resolution was unanimously passed, and 
I was instructed to forward same to you : 

" That James M. Glover, Mayor of Bexhill,, 
Judge of Limericks, be unanimously elected 
to the first vacancy at Colony Hatch." 

At the election which qualified me for the possible 
mayoralty I had a quaint household experience. I 
had an Irish housekeeper, possessed of a humour 
entirely her own. I said to her one morning, in 
London, " Maloney, let's pack up our things and 
go to Bexhill. There's an election on there; I'm 
a candidate." 

Being Irish she jumped for joy. Any chance 
suggestion of a fight appealed to her native humour, 
and the word " Election " opened up possibilities. 

When we arrived, I pointed out to her that, as 
we were only stopping for two days, it was not 
necessary to order large supplies of comestibles, 
and that economy was the order of the household. 
At the time I was retiring Chairman of the General 
Purposes Committee, which licensed the local boat- 
men and fishermen. I met one of these worthies- 
with a huge haul of fish round his neck. 

" Good morrow, Bill Ball." 

" Good morrow, governor." 

" Well, Bill, you seem to have had a good night's- 
fishing?" 

"Oh yes, sir! but what am I to do with it? 
There's nowhere to sell it; it will, go for next to 
nothing." There is no market at Bexhill, and the 
only two fish emporiums cannot exhaust any great 
" catch " that may suddenly arrive. 

With that he shouldered two huge plaice, which 
crowned the top collection of his haul. So with a 
view to help him, I said, " Bill, take these big ones- 
round to my house, and tell the housekeeper I said 
she was to take them in. She will pay you, and it 



i 5 8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

will help you to pay your expenses to go to Hastings 
to sell the rest." Bribery was not in my mind, but 
sympathy 1 thought was useful at election time at 
a small outlay. 

I was sitting alone at my lunch table, just 
finishing, when the Hibernian Hebe burst into the 
dining-room. 

" Oi say, sir! " 

" Well, what is it? " 

" There's a man downstairs who's brought two 
huge fish. What the devil are we to do with 
them? " 

" Oh, it's all right! this is election time." 

" Is it? But then who the divil is to eat them? 
This is only Wednesday, and I only eat fish on a 
Friday, and you, God help you! never touch it." 
I am afraid this was a home thrust at my non- 
observance of my religious penalties. 

" Never mind. It's election time. We do a lot 
of things at this period that we don't do any other 
time." 

"Oh! do we? It's just like you to be com- 
plaining about the household expenses being too 
big, and here now you want me to buy two fish, 
both of them as big as a Dreadnought." 

'" Never mind, Maloney ! I have given my orders 
this is election time. I repeat, we do a lot of 
things during elections that we never think of 
doing at any other period." 

" So I notice." 

With this she turned on her heel and went down- 
stairs and held what she would describe as an inde- 
pendent " dialogue " to herself on these lines : " It's 
election time, is it ? Yes ; we do a lot of things at 
election time. Them two's enough fish to feed all the 
Catholics in Bexhill for a month of Fridays. But 
it's his money ; he can do what he likes with it. 
Then he growls that the books are too big. Oh ! 
I see, it's election time. Let him have his way." 
(Of course this was a minor detail, as I intended 
liaving my own way.) 

I heard a mild discussion going on downstairs 
between the fisherman and the housekeeper. I 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 159^ 

then shouted out that the fisherman could have a 
liberal allowance of the wine of Scotland and the- 
fizzing water of Schweppes, and I finished my 
lunch. 

Five minutes aftenvards I heard a noise of some- 
one coining upstairs, mumming to herself the same 
old refrain 

" Well, it's his money. He can do what he likes, 
with it." The door burst open suddenly, and before 
I could stand up, the two plaice were immediately 
sliding across my beautiful damask tablecloth, and 
the lady from Ireland stood before ine with her 
arms akimbo, bellowing into my ear : 

" They're two-and-tuppence, sir, and he is not in 
our Ward." 

Another quaint experience while I was Mayor of 
Bexhill, was when I was asked by the West Country- 
Association to respond to a toast on the occasion of 
the visit of the Lord Mayor, Sir William Treloar,. 
of whom it is said that he " throws oil-cloth on the 
troubled waters." My neighbour was Sir William's 
popular Sheriff, Sir William Dunn, M.P. After 
grace the Sheriff took up my card and read out : 
"The Mayor of Bexhill James Glover, Esq., J.P. 
Dear, dear! " he continued. " Why, you've got the 
same name as that advertising chap at Drury Lane 
who is always getting his name in the papers. It's- 
perfectly sickening ! Every Sunday morning I take 
up my ' Referee ' and see that Jimmy Glover has- 
done this that and the other thing." I replied;, 
" Yes, it's awful ! " In my speech later in the- 
evening I soon convinced Sir William of " my 
advertising power." 



CHAPTER X 

The Collins regime continued A human docu- 
ment Jimmy Harrington Dan Leno outwitted The 
relief of Ladysrnith as a pantomime ' ; gag " Sir 
Herbert Tree and the new Lady Macbeth other 
Tree-isms Yon Bulow Cecil Raleigh and his col- 
laboration Harry Hamilton England's adversities 
and Cecil Raleigh's play Hoaxing Ancona with the 
Queen's present How the tenor got ready for Co- 
vent Garden in Italy Stories of the late King 
Edward Disfiguring the Band-Parts Landon 
Ronald's commencement Henry Neville's orchestral 
-experience. 

THE Collins regime is full and rich with interest- 
ing detail, but I am only touching on its fringe. 
This year is 1912 Drury Lane now attains its 
centenary, because two great conflagrations hap- 
pened about that time the burning of Moscow 
.and a similar conflagration at Drury Lane, after 
which the " Renters " started as lessees. All this 
will be dealt with fully in another volume, and so 
of this " more anon " as the villain says to the 
heroine when he is rejected. But a real human 
document is the story of the Drury Lane call-boy 
Jimmy Harrington. 

A little street-urchin, dribbling at the nose, 
collarless, but clean. A hard, intelligent, but 
plebeian face, \vith bright blue eyes, one of a gang 
of fifty waiting round a frost-bitten stage door for 
-work. The boy is engaged, and forms one of an 
infantile " British Army " that is engaged to dance 
on the corpus "vile of Paul Kruger in " Jack and the 
Beanstalk " pantomime 1890-91. The urchin is 
trained, for weeks and weeks he goes through the 
1 60 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 161 

daily pabulum of stage-military exercise. He never 
varies. Other boys may play the fool, others may 
joke others may neglect their business but he 
is always the same, attentive, punctual, obedient. 
He never shirks his work, and thus he is selected 
for special notice by his superiors. 

And yet only a few weeks before that he was 
selling newspapers in the street. " Echo, sir, 
Speshul," and he drops his bundle and turns a 
catherine-wheel for a halfpenny. " Thank-e, sir." 
But the stage-door lounger receives recognition and, 
one of fifty, he is engaged. 

****** 

It is the night of the Relief of Ladysinith. Two 
great comedians one Herbert Campbell, the other 
Dan Leno consult in their dressing-rooms as to 
the scene in which they should break the news to 
the audience. They arrange Scene VII., Part II., 
but in Scene 1., Part I., three hours earlier, a boy 
brings on a pie to Dame Trot (Dan Leno), who 
according to the plot is running a bakery. The boy 
is the same urchin who later on in the evening 
becomes a performing diminutive guardsman. He 
usually speaks a four-line rhyme such as : 

" This pie my mother trusts and hopes 

That you will burn it not. 
In baking it you won't be long. 
I'll bring it" back, Dame Trot." 

On this particular night the boy comes on gaily 
more joyous than usual. Dances round Dame Trot, 
but speaks not his accustomed lines. Stage waits 
Leno annoyed. But the boy budges not. At last 
the great camedian, somewhat chagrined at this 
interruption of his scene, says, " Boy, why so gay 
this evening ? " 

A pause a huge giggle by the boy, and then this 
reply : " Oh, 'aven't you 'erd, I've just relieved 
Ladysmith? " Sensation. 

I have never heard such an uproar in a theatre 
before. It may be remarked that the news of the 
Relief of Ladvsmith had arrived after the doors 



162 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

were opened, and the audience seated. Of course, 
Leno and Campbell were furious, but they bore it 
all good-naturedly enough, although considerably 
annoyed at being " spoofed." 

Two mouths later I sent for this boy. " What are 
you, James?" "I'm a Roman Catholic, sir." 
"No, I mean how do you live?" "Well, sir, 
there's an ole woman very good to me. During 
the panto I got nine shillings a week, but that 
didn't keep me, so I sez to myself, there is one 
hundred children here working all day, they must 
have refreshments; so as they don't drink whisky 
and beer like the big actors, and must have 
some refreshment, I worked the pineapple trick." 
" What's that? " I asked, not exactly appreciating 
what the " pineapple trick " was. " Well, I buys 
a tin of pineapple for a shilling. I cuts it up in 
penny and halfpenny slices, and sells it to them. 
I'm rather handy with my fists, so I sold them a 
penny slice, but for tuppence I agreed to pummel 
any other boy they didn't like for them. That 
didn't last long, though too many free fights 
and I chucked it, so then I started a shoeblack 
emporium, and there are about a hundred and 
fifty people in the theatre with dirty boots, so I 
contracted to do their polishing for tuppence a 
week, and that was all right, but another boy 
undercut me offered to do it for three-halfpence 
so I gave him a jolly good thrashing and chucked 
the game. 

" Then I wrote an original drama and gave it 
twice a day in the ballet room (a large room under- 
neath the stage). It was called 'The Soldier Boy's 
Return from the War, or Mother's Only Joy ' 
Front seats twopence, Back seats one penny, Back- 
handers for nothing. This lasted for a time, but 
when some of my ' audience ' wuz late one night 
in the Kruger scene, Mister D'Auban, the stage 
manager, kicked up a row, and we had to 
disband." 

" Well, I am going to try your honesty, James. 
Take this ^30 to the bank, and when you come 
back I will offer you work." I really had no 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 163 

fears of the boy. His straightforwardness im- 
pressed me. 

The boy came back in ten minutes with the bank 
receipt. I then took him to Bexhill, where he 
" paged " for me, and sold programmes at the 
Kursaal. 

One morning he brought me a letter : " Mr. 
Henry Arthur Jones requests the pleasure of Mr. 
James Harrington"s company at the Albany to 
attend the reading of a new play." It appears that 
the well-known author had seen him in a special 
matinee at Brighton, for which I had lent him to 
Charles Frohman. 

Shortly he appeared in this play " The Lackey's 
Carnival " by the well-known dramatist, H. A. 
Jones. The youth made a big success, and I think 
got 3, los. a week. I made him bank all his 
money. He then (on my suggestion) returned to 
Drury Lane as call-boy, and became in due course 
Assistant Stage-Manager. He took much of my 
advice too literally. But in any leisure moment 
he studied French, German and Shorthand, and 
on his twenty-first birthday Mr. Collins presented 
him with a pocket-book with a " fiver " inside. 
Enquiries as to what happened to the " fiver " led 
to the discovery that he had paid it in for a series 
of Shorthand lessons in Chancery Lane. 

He had no parents. I gathered that his religion 
was selected at an industrial school he was sent 
there as he had been abandoned on a doorstep. He 
really had a big future before him. The boy had 
great ideas in our business. He read morn and 
night, and had made up his mind that he was to 
be a much-read man, even if he was not a well-read 
boy. To see him pull the strings, ring the bells, 
and marshal the huge pantomime about in the 
absence of his superiors was marvellous. He had 
many a discussion with my cat after she had com- 
mandeered the freehold right of half a chicken left 
by a dear, kind, thoughtful soul, for his supper. 
He was one of the justifiable results of a well-placed 
confidence. He had his Drury Lane masters to 
thank for a great chance in life, and their confidence 



164 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

was never betrayed, and one day he might have 
been a big man. Fancy the beginning ! The 
collarless, insufficiently-shoed street urchin at the 
stage door in a few short years a position which 
entitled him to sit in evening-dress at the 
" Prodigal Son " Supper, given to his master, with 
his right and left associates, Mr. Hall Caine, Mrs. 
John Wood and Sir George Alexander. 

Alas, one morning I was early awakened by the 
telephone bell : " Trunk call, sir it is the Bexhill 
Exchange. Drury Lane speaking, you will be sorry 
to hear that Jimmy Harrington died in Charing 
Cross Hospital this morning Accident." He for 
a wager tried to climb up a water-spout in King 
Street, St. James' he got to the first floor and fell, 
spiked on the railings underneath. Poor chap ! 
R. I. P. 

The boy Harrington was only one of the peculiar 
incidents that crop up to one's mind, and the appli- 
cations that are received for engagements by the 
personnel of the theatre have not always such a 
tragic side about them, but often as not carry a good 
deal of unlooked-for humour. Every season one had 
the pleasure of meeting at Drury Lane all the great 
stars assembled to do duty in some charity cause or 
other. It is then that our library of jape and quip 
gets replenished. The following is one of the more 
recent of such episodes : It would not be fair to 
mention the lady's name, but I have Sir Herbert's 
permission to mention his : 

The wife of a leading London manager herself 
once a well-known actress decided to return to the 
stage, so she thus approached His Majesty's 
Manager : 

" DEAR Sm HERBERT TREE, 

" I intend returning to the stage. Can you 
find something for me ? Anything will do from 
Lady Macbeth down to the Cloak-room. 

" Yours truly, 



" late of Theatre " 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 165 

The reply : 

" DEAR MRS , 

" We have one Lady Macbeth in the theatre 
already. She is in the Cloak-room. 
" Yours truly, 

" HERBERT TREE " 

But those of us who remember the recent action 
of the matinee hat nuisance and its exploitation as 
an advertising coup will better appreciate another 
good Tree-ism. When he was upbraided by the 
Theatrical Managers' Association for allowing his 
wonderful " Henry VIII." production to be cine- 
matographed for one thousand pounds be it under- 
stood his principal assailant was another old 
friend, Frank Curzon, who expatiated at length on 
the injury to the legitimate stage that this pio- 
ceeding would carry. " Well," said Tree, " I have 
liad my cheque, and it has gone through the Bank, 
so that settles it. As for Mr. Curzon, he is talking 
through his Matinee Hat! " 

And one often wonders if the hundred and one 
possible Pattis (in their own mind) who crowd the 
stage door and ask us to lose our valuable time 
listening to their singing out of tune really knew 
how bad they really are. It is a very delicate 
matter to tell the truth on these occasions, but a 
rather good story is told of Von Bulow, who was 
once directing an orchestra, when the prima donna 
sang seriously out of tttne. In this case it was the 
delinquent, and not the director, who stopped the 
orchestra, to the surprise of every one, and enquired, 
with all the effrontery of unconscious incompetence, 
if the " band was in tune." " I don't know," 
quickly replied Von Bulow, and to the false-toned 
vocalist, " Give us your A." To the uninitiated the 
pitch of the orchestra is generally taken from the 
" A," sounded by some staple instrument, usually 
the oboe. 

The humours of rehearsing our various plays are 
all of a very light-hearted nature, and in my many 



166 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

years I have seldom heard a regretted word or 
unnecessary incident which one can recall of any 
serious nature. Tempers will rise, passions will 
storm, and small vanities will exist, but that is all ; 
but a little turn, a gentle word, or a passing quip, 
does wonders. For instance : 

Cecil Raleigh, in collaborating with an author 
whose wife was playing the leading part, found the 
following situation easily solvable. Dialogue : 

HUSBAND-AUTHOR : I say, Raleigh, my wife wants 
a strong situation written in here. Her part falls 
lo nothing in this scene. Strengthen the end of 
the act. 

RALEIGH : Not in your sweet life, dear boy. Scene 
quite long enough. 

H.-A. But I protest. 

RALEIGH : So you can, till the cows come home. 

H.-A. : Nonsense, my dear Raleigh ; besides, I 
am part author of this play, and as such I assert 
my right. In fact, I insist. I shall now go home, 
and as part author write in that scene which I think 
essential to the play's success. That's the value of 
collaboration. 

RALEIGH : Right-o ! You go home and write the 
scene and bring it back to me, and I'll cut it out. 
That's the advantage of collaboration! 

And then again : 

A young actor at Drury Lane was standing over 
a trap at rehearsal. " My ambition," he remarked 
to Harry Hamilton, the author, "is to come up 
that trap." " You never will," was the quick re- 
joinder, " it's a Star trap." For the uninitiated a 
" Star trap " is an aperture in the stage, cut out in 
the shape of a star, through which demon-acrobats 
and other pantomimic wild fowl arise in weird 
moments. 

Then again, when Augustus Daly died he pos- 
sessed the American rights of the Drury Lane 
drama, "The Great Ruby." His executors were 
Ada Rehan and Sir Eric Barrington (then Lord 
Salisbury's private secretary). To Downing Street 
repaired Arthur Collins in Drury Lane interests, 
and Cecil Raleigh in the author's, to settle the terms 



JIMMY GLOVKR HIS BOOK 167 

of the American tour. This was soon done. " That's 
all, then ; I am very glad this little matter is settled 
it's not quite in my line," said the secretary to the 
Prime Minister of England. " Yes," said Raleigh, 
" all we have to do now is to embody it in a couple 
of little formal agreements, go to our solicitors, 
have them engrossed, exchange copies, get them 
stamped, and there you are! " " Certainly, if you 
wish it," was the diplomatist's reply, " but you 
don't doubt my word ? " " Not at all," said Raleigh, 
" but with Kruger and South Africa in one hand 
just now, and Marchand and Fashoda in the other, 
I think you're pretty full up ; and I can't expect you 
to worry much over five per cent, on a few hundred 
dollars some nights' takings with ' The Great 
Ruby ' in a one-night stand, played by a second- 
rate company, on a third-rate American tour.' ; 

The late Queen Victoria, ten days after every 
" Command " at Windsor, used to send a diamond 
pin or other ornament to the principal artistes 
engaged. Ancona, the baritone, was seriously 
agitated on one of these occasions, that after a 
certain effluxion of time his particular present had 
not arrived. " La Reine m'a oublit Rien pour mot 
c'est extraordinaire," till we all got so tired that 
we determined to teach him a lesson, so one morning 
the following happening took place. 

SCENE Dress rehearsal of a new work at Covent 
Garden " La Navarraise." Stalls full of singers, 
pressmen, and others ; Ancona in the middle. 
Suddenly during an entr'acte a full-dressed Hussar 
one of the ordinary messengers of Royalty arrives, 
walks into the middle of the stalls, crying out loud, 
"Signer Hancona ! " Sudden astonishment and 
joy of Ancona as he is handed a large box tied with 
red ribbon, to which is hanging the real official 
Windsor seal. Loud cries from surrounding 
watchers of " What is it? " " Do let us see," " How 
charming of the Queen ! " During all this time the 
proud baritone was fumbling in his pocket for a 
coin with which he might reward the Royal mes- 
senger. Ancona anxiously tears off the string, and 
finds a dozen coverings of paper on the principle of 



i6S JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

the old conjurer's box trick, and finally reaching 
the supposed jewel draws out a paste-glass chande- 
lier drop, tied with two pieces of red ribbon, 
which some of us had prepared for him that 
morning ! 

It must be explained that whenever a " Com- 
mand " performance was given at Windsor, we all, 
in our various departments, were supplied with 
cards of invitation, to which were attached the huge 
Windsor official seal. We had cut off one of these 
seals, and thus " fabricated " a genuine appearance 
to an otherwise harmless " spoof." 

It was geuerall}' understood that in order 
" debut er a Covent Garden " an appearance in Italy 
was necessary, and so, to ingratiate himself with 
" Druriolauus," a certain tenor with private funds 
repaired to one of those many Italian towns which 
boasts periodical seasons of opera to qualify for his 
London d6but. For the deposited sum of 20,000 
francs in advance, a thieving impresario consented 
to run a short season of one month's repertoire of 
Italian opera, in which the tenor was to be " top 
dog," and make a necessary number of appearances 
in his favourite roles. The theatre was taken, cast, 
band, chorus engaged, and our tenor in due course 
made his dtbut, which could not be considered as 
favourable. Never was heard such a pandemonium 
in an opera-house for years. To run a month on 
these lines meant ruin to the impresario, and as the 
Italian conspirators had determined not to return 
a single franc of the deposit something had to be 
done to save the situation and the remaining portion 
of the 20,000 francs. The next evening arrived, and 
our tenor, thoroughly unconscious of the failure he 
really had made, emerged from his hotel theatre- 
wards to dress for Edgardo in " Lucia " the second 
night's opera. 

Now it so happened that two drunken sailors were 
passing as he left his hotel. He found himself 
jostled into the roadway, an altercation ensued, and 
much " Corpo-di-Bacco-ing," and many Italian 
expletives followed a scuffle a whistle and the 
unfortunate ( ?) arrival of two Carabineri when the 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 169 

luckless tenor was taken to the police-station and 
charged with assaulting (sic) two sailors. Protests 
were useless, messengers could not be found to 
acquaint the theatre, hotel, or friends for bail, till 
midnight, when the jailers relented, and released 
the Covent Garden aspirant, who awoke the next 
morning to find the theatre closed, a writ issued 
against him for another 25,000 francs damages, and 
an intimation from the impresario that he had 
broken his contract, and ruined the season, which 
had to be abandoned. 

It need hardly be said that the whole thing was 
a carefully devised " plant " to squeeze the poor 
operatic aspirant of his extra wealth. 

I merely tell the story to accentuate my friend's 
story in another chapter on the way that these 
things are managed in Italy. 

At Covent Garden we had many evidences of the 
memory of the late King Edward. Both he and 
Queen Alexandra were very fond of Luigi Man- 
cinelli one of the best conductors who ever wielded 
a baton and the Queen herself once privately pre- 
sented the maestro with a small stick with which 
he used to occasionally conduct. 

Another instance of the King's memory is a little 
musical incident which happened one Sunday night, 
when he was staying at Lady William Beresford's. 
There was a small band engaged, with which I was 
professionally connected, consisting of a piano and 
six instrumentalists, and in one of the intervals the 
then Prince of Wales led a lady to the accompanist, 
addressing that gentleman in these words : " This 
lady is going to sing us something, but she has no 
music, so what can you play from memory? " The 
Prince was informed that, no doubt, whatever the 
lady might decide to sing, the pianist and orchestra 
would be only too pleased to " vamp " i.e. 
improvise. (This was not the word used, although 
it was the procedure intended.) His Royal 
Highness then replied, " Do you know ' Honey, 
Oh, my Honey,' and if you can play it, can the 
violins join in pizzicato? " This was the one-time 
popular song from " Little Christopher Columbus,"" 



170 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

sung by May Yohe, the first Lady Francis Hope. 
The orchestra complied, and H.R.H. was greatly 
interested in the process of " vamping." He con- 
gratulated the musicians, and wound up by saying, 
" Now let us have ' Lazily, drowsily,' and Braga's 
* Serenata.' " So it will be seen that even after this 
long lapse of time the Prince remembered that 
<( Honey, Oh, my Honey," was played at the Lyric 
Theatre with a pizzicato accompaniment. 

But the late King Edward had always a musical 
ear, and he also kept a sharp look-out on many 
things at Covent Garden which any one of his 
subjects would never dream of his having any 
interest in. 

The question of conductorship at Covent Garden 
often caused serious trouble. Bevignani was getting 
old, and one night the then Prince asked Harris, 
" How long is this going on ? " indicating Bevignani 
so much so that poor Bevignani had to be asked to 
retire from " Faust " and other works in his reper- 
toire, and the more modern Mancinelli installed. 
But the Royal occupant of the omnibus box 
interested himself in many a small detail. Man- 
cinelli one night forgot his white kid gloves, and 
the Royal remark was : " Harris, is the opera going 
to the dogs ? " Another occasion the entire orchestra 
In respect to their leader, who had a great domestic 
bereavement, wore black ties. This brought a 
remonstrance from high quarters in no uncertain 
form, and not a black tie was seen for the rest of 
the season save the leader's he refusing to doff 
"his mourning, even for Royalty. I gathered after- 
wards that the kindly-natured Prince sent round a 
sympathetic message explaining his ignorance of 
the real reason for the departure from the usual 
routine. 

Again, one night, we did " Fra Diavolo." The 
second tenor was Joseph O'Mara. " Where," said 
His Royal Highness, " did he come from ? " " Oh," 
said Sir Augustus "one of the new blood! " 
" There," concluded the future King of England, 
turning to Mr. Christopher Sykes, " is a chance for 
yon." And turning to Sir Augustus Harris, "My 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 171 

friend Sykes has a latent talent in this direction. 
Can you give him a chance? " 

The late King, too, was so fond of Wagner that 
it was found necessary to do " small " Wagner 
arrangements for the various petits orchestres which 
occasionally visited him at Windsor, Buckingham 
Palace, or Sandringham. These were generally 
arranged by Adolf Schmid, Sir Herbert*' Tree's 
clever director of music, who was sent to the Hay- 
market by me as musical director at a time when 
he was my cello at Drury Lane. His knowledge of 
orchestration is larger than most musical directors 
in London, and his name as arranger appears on 
many of Sir Edward Elgar's works. I have always 
regretted his loss to me, but Sir Herbert has never 
ceased thanking me. 

One of the principal troubles we encountered at 
Covent Garden was the carving and cutting about 
of the various band parts to suit the catarrh-izing 
exigencies of the various artistes. In early days 
" Carmen " suffered a good deal in this way, as 
the role lends itself to optional acceptance to mezzos 
with high registers and soprani with low registers, 
and in some cases to so-called singers with neither 
facility. When it first came to this country there 
was a doubt about its copyright, and five distinct 
versions were being done; (i) Mapleson's, (2) Gye's, 
(3) Selina Doloro's, (4) " Cruel Carmen " (Miss 
Alice Aynsley Cook), (5) Emily Soldene. Soldene 
was in Glasgow doing two performances a day to 
packed business. The musicians being paid 35?. a 
week, i.e. 55. lod. a night, and half salaries 
(25. i id.) for matinees. They struck for " opera " 
terms, asserting that " Carmen " was " comic 
opera." When Soldene went on to the next town 
she found this couplet in the flute part. Writing 
things in the band parts is a favourite amusement 
of provincial musicians 



" Soldene's collaring all the chips, 
Poor Bizet's gone to Heaven, 
Here am I playing the principal flute 
For a paltry two-and-eleven." 



172 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

This story is not quite correctly told in Emily 
Soldene's book, but 'twill serve. 

This touring round the country for musical folk 
is to music what the old stock system was to the 
drama. There is hardly one of the leading London 
conductors of any eminence who has not at one 
time or another been through the mill in this 
fashion. Sir Henry J. Wood, Thomas Beecham, and 
Landon Ronald are three excellent specimens. 

Landon Ronald, who had previously toured with 
" L'Enfant Prodigue," had been engaged by Harris 
as " maestro al piano " for his Italian tour at 6 
a week, and on his return to London, Sepilli, the 
Italian maestro, with whom I was working for 
Harris, asked me to "fill him in" as organist for 
"the " Faust " and " Cavalleria " nights at a guinea 
a night. This I did, and I guaranteed Ronald for 
Sir Augustus Harris three nights, i.e. three 
guineas a week. This opera season was such a 
success that the season afterwards we had two con- 
ductors, Luigi Mancinelli and Glover the former 
for the big operas and the latter for the smaller 
things. To me fell the lot of " Bohemian Girls," 
"Maritanas," and the lighter works. Mancinelli 
did not want to conduct two nights running, so, as 
he had opened on Easter Saturday, and I had billed 
him with " Cavalleria " and " Pagliacci " on the 
Monday, he begged me to conduct " Cavalleria " 
and " laissez Landon diriger ' Pagliacci.' " Sir 
Augustus Harris willing, I so altered the bills. 
This was Ronald's first appearance as a conductor 
in London opera. Personally, I announced myself 
to conduct " Carmen " at the Crystal Palace on the 
following Thursday, but as the management of the 
season was taking up all my time, I asked Ronald 
if he would like to do " Carmen." There were 
several reasons for this. I had had a wider ex- 
perience of the Crystal Palace band. Away from 
August Manns, when they played in the theatre 
for the travelling conductor a more competent 
impertinent sulky lazy always late at rehearsal 
division, I never knew. And I did not see why I 
should lose my time and my temper with them. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 173 

Ronald would not be allowed to conduct at Drury 
Lane without a rehearsal. At the Palace they had 
to give him one, and so I let him have it. To this 
he consented, brought down his dear old father 
the octogenarian, Henry Russell (never-to-be-forgot- 
ten author of " Cheer-boy s-Cheer," " A Life on the 
Ocean Wave," etc.), to see him, and the old man 
was so thankful for this lift-up to his son, that he 
stood me tea, kissed me, and promised me a grand 
piano on my wedding. Afterwards, Ronald got 
" Faust " into his repertoire, and this was his com- 
mencement as a splendid conductor, modestly but 
seriously begun. 

But, after all, Ronald found the orchestra much 
more useful than Henry Neville, that once popular 
leading man, who, it is not generally known, played 
the violin in Covent Garden Orchestra. 

Neville's brother, at the time acting in a 
provincial touring company, wrote to him 

" DEAR HARRY, 

" Don't play the fiddle any longer for 355. 
a week, or you will live and die and end at 355. 
Come on tour and act. The worst kind of actor can 
commence at 4." 



CHAPTER XI 

Comic Opera " Chilperic " again Arthur Sullivan 
The prejudices exhibited towards light music in 
academic institutions " The Lost Chord " as a horn- 
pipe Farnie's great genius French operas and 
their mode of transplanting Musical comedy " La 
Poupee " Songs, ancient and modern "Killartiey" 
Edmund Falconer " Spring, Gentle Spring " 
Boucicault and " Babil and Bijou " and " The Shau- 
ghraun " "Dorothy" and "Queen of my Heart" 
" Tommy Atkins " " Soldiers of the Queen " " The 
Absent-minded Beggar " How Sullivan wrote it 
who " scored " it " Two Lovely Black Eyes " " 1 he 
Man who Broke the Bank" "Beer, Glorious Beer"- 
The Trocadero in the days of music-hall " Lions " 
before mutton-chop " Lyons " Paulus' season the 
"free-list" Banking the cheques The wrong india- 
rubber stamp. 

THERE are few arts which have passed through 
so many changes as the cult of Comic Opera. 
Slow in being accepted seriously when it was first 
introduced into this country, in its French form, I 
mean, by the Brothers Mansel at the Lyceum 
(" Chilperic " in 1871), it had a certain vogue due 
to Alexander Henderson and his adapting hench- 
man, H. B. Farnie. But indifference soon told his 
tale. 

Herve really invented comic opera, and had a 
short rivalry with Offenbach only a short one as 
Offenbach completely wiped out the ex-tenor com- 
poser who was always a little mad, dying shortly 
after an attack upon reading a captious criticism 
of one of his works by Henri Fouquier in " Le 
Figaro." Perhaps Herve never really survived his 
association as " maitre de Musique " with some 
174 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 175 

poor " dementis " in a French asylum at Bicetre, 
for whom he used to organize and conduct con- 
certs and musical entertainments. Nevertheless, 
Augustus Harris brought him to The Empire to 
write many beautiful ballets even as the Gattis 
at an earlier period, as I have recorded engaged 
him to direct promenade concerts at Co vent Garden. 

But Offenbach spluttered out, and interest in 
foreign work waned except for an occasional 
Lecocq success like " Pepita," or Audran's triumphs 
"La Mascotte " and "La Poupee." From this 
period onwards perhaps it was the death of 
Alexander Henderson, Farnie and Reece nothing 
was done to keep the light school alive, and when 
one reflects that it took twenty-three years for 
Offenbach's " Contes d 'Hoffman " to cross the 
Straits of Dover, it will be quite evident that some- 
thing was radically wrong. Since the death of 
Arthur Sullivan, not one of our young composers 
had ever been taught to write a really dramatic 
number. The higher-toned English musicians who 
were prepared to sneer at Sullivan's class of work 
are never inclined, in their various academic 
capacities, to teach the young idea how to shoot inio 
lighter vein, assuming for purposes of argument 
that the raw material existed. 

The only man that made any headway in the 
Sullivan method, but whose early demise precluded 
him doing anything very serious, was Edward 
Solomon, who wrote about twenty operas in the 
genuine comic opera style, most of which attained 
a fair, if not lasting, success. But Solomon was of 
the theatre theatrical. 

Solomon had humour. His hornpipe to a counter- 
melody of " The Lost Chord " brought a friendly 
protest from Arthur Sullivan : 

" DEAR TEDDY, 

" I wrote ' The Lost Chord ' in sorrow at 
my brother Fred's death " (Fred Sullivm was a 
comedian and the original Judge in ' Trial by Jury ') 
don't burlesque it." 



i 7 6 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Thus wrote Sullivan, the morning after it was 
played in the Guards' burlesque. 

His orchestration was punctually topical in 
fact, it may be taken as " aggravated " Sullivan. 
Sullivan's musical parodies and topical suggestions 
were all lightly done such as the old " Lancers " 
reference in " The Mikado's " song. Solomon's was 
broader but less rnusicianly fun. In a farce which 
contained a domestic cooking scene somebody 
dropped a red herring this succulent morsel being 
vulgarly known in slang as "a red soldier." 
Vocally treated Teddy punctuated it with a musical 
reference in two bars of " Let me like a soldier fall." 
To the musician this was apparent; to the non- 
musician it was so much musical Greek. But for 
all that he was a little genius, we miss him 
greatly, and his death made a great musical void. 

Of course, when musical comedy came in, it 
immediately filled up the gap, and though it flooded 
the stage with a large number of useless character 
studies, it supplied the orchestra with a large 
number of rule-of-thumb musicians, who hammered 
out " something resembling a tune " to the first 
music hack encountered. When the chorus lady who 
sang one song became a prima donna, when every 
chorus man in modern evening-dress became a Sims 
Reeves, any chance there was for writing for the 
musical stage from a comic opera or dramatic stand- 
point, faded away. Who is there now who could 
write a Savoy finale to an Act I. lasting twenty-five 
minutes and not bore the public ? Nobody. The 
thread of music drama in the old days stretched 
from Act I. to Act III. Now, it is a common thing 
to cut out either act after the first night, and nobody 
suffers. " Now we've got good notices from the 
critics," said Seymour Hicks the morning after one 
of his first nights, " let's call a rehearsal and cut 
out the plot." It is recorded of my old friend, 
George Edwardes, that he telegraphed to a well- 
known author : " Come at once great idea to alter 
your play." The author came, and George beamed 
on him, " We're going to play the second act first." 

H. B. Farnie on the other hand, the much-despised 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 177 

Scotch journalist from Cupar Fife, had his school 
of composers and executants to write round, 
assisted by collaborateur Robert Reece, and, granted 
the drama, who were these puppets ? Pattie 
Laverne, who married a carriage builder in Long; 
Acre, vSelina Delaro, Emily Soldene, who married a 
Mr. Powell, Pauline Rita (wife of one of our most 
eminent flautists), Florence St. John, Violet 
Cameron, who became Mrs. de Bensuade or 
" Brandy and Soda " as we called him for short 
Tilly Wadtnan, who married Wiggy Jervis, 
Angelina Claude, and a host of others ; and when 
we come to the male department Henry Bracy, 
Henry Ashley, Harry Cox, W. S. Rising, not to 
mention Charles Manners, just retired having made 
his " pile " out of " unprofitable " English opera, 
W. H. Hamilton, and scores of others. These were 
the people who could always be well-fitted, and 
could always give a good account of themselves. 

Farnie, who always kept one eye on Paris and 
one on London, had a wonderful knack of turning- 
a Parisian failure into a London success. I shall 
never forget the annoyed look on the author, 
Albert Vanloo's face on the night of the " repetition 
generate " of " Les Droits d'Ainesse," when the late 
Alfred Hays, the Library Agent of New Bond 
Street, walked out at the end of the first act in 
Paris, called for "a bottle of bubbly " Pelican-ese 
for champagne remarking that he did not want 
to hear any more, and handed them one thousand 
pounds on deposit for the English rights across 
the table in the little restaurant near the Bouffes 
Parisiennes in the Passage Choiseul. 

The French version was a poor success in Paris, 
and as it turned out, it was a good thing that Alfred 
Hays did not go back. He might have stopped the 
cheque. Farnie had his eyes open all the time, saw 
where the weak points existed, and when it was 
produced at the Comedy Theatre as " Falka," it 
made one of the greatest successes of the season. 
One could see the master hand had been at work. 
Afterwards it was sent on tour by Alexander 
Henderson, but he tired of his country speculations 



178 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

always too soon, and his own musical director, Van 
Biene, and an actor named Horace Lingard, ran 
down to Northampton and bought him out for a 
specific sum, making their fortunes thereby. 

Even the adaptation of the " Mascotte," from the 
point of view of those who saw the French version, 
was a tour de force. Farnie was to the musical play 
what Dion Boucicault was to the average drama, 
but we have no Farnie now to go to Paris, and pick 
tip the plays and so arrange them for English taste 
without completely destroying the original idea. 
*' Veronique " and " The Michus " and " The 
Merry Widow," have, in some sense, made a 
crescendo of artistic demand in light opera, but 
they stand alone. 

" Veronique " was hawked about in this country 
lor two years. I had an option for T. H. French 
in New York on its English rights for 48 hours, 
which I did not exercise through a blunder in a 
telegram office and wrong delivery of a message of 
acceptance. For six months it lay in the hands of 
an English Duke, as representing a syndicate. 
Then, to flatter Andre Messager, its composer, who 
married " Hope Temple " (Dolly Davis, sister of 
Mrs. Sam Lewis), it was done at the Coronet 
Theatre, Notting Hill, by a French troupe under 
the auspices of the Covent Garden regime, when it 
drew all London to hear it in a language that half 
London did not understand, which led to its being 
produced in English. " Les Petits Michus " was 
for four years in the portfolio of Arthur Collins, and 
two years in the possession of another manager, 
Tbefore any one would look at it. 

Comic opera, however, is not dead only every- 
"bodv at one time went about saying so, and nobody 
produced it. Now the revival has come thank 
goodness. But the students in our schools are not 
taught pratique, or utility; so they go on with 
their " Variation in F. Minor," their " fugues inter- 
woven with Bach and Beethoven" and cui bonof 
It is much the fault of the " additional number " 
craze eight bars of a double-forte symphony cut 
off with a pair of scissors ; " sixteen bars and 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 179 

refrain, twice through, up stage, and back for 
encore " which often as not does not coine and the 
audience which went mad over " The Torpedo and 
the Whale," or " The Legend of the Crosse-Caisse,'* 
now rolls in its own plushed stall to : 

" Mary Jane of Tooting 
Was a proper sort of girl 
When her sweetheart from his office 
got the ' push.' 

" But Mary knew a thing or two, 
And bolted with an Earl, 
So they're living now in naughty 

Shepherd's Bush." 

When the 5ooth night of "La Poupee " arrived, 
Audran came over to be present, and was doubtless 
glad that neither he nor his collaborateur, Ordon- 
neau, had allowed one single number to be 
introduced other than their own writing. How 
different when the " Pinafore " craze was on in 
America, and one singer sang of " Josephine " as 
" My Sweetheart when a Boy." 

The story of the success of " H.M.S. Pinafore " 
does not seem to have been accurately told. It is 
well known that the First Lord who stuck " close 
to his desk and never went to sea ... to be ruler 
of the Queen's Navee " was a sly shaft at the then 
First Lord of the Admirality the late W. H. Smith. 
But " Pinafore " fell flat at first, and in the action 
which arose over the Opera Comique lease and 
the fight which ensued a real scrimmage, when 
Rutland Barrington tells me his very Captain 
Corcoran clothes were torn to shreds it came out 
that the second night's receipts were a matter of 
only ^14 odd. 

The row occurred in this way. D'Oyly Carte was 
manager of the Comedy Opera Company, Ltd., and 
Lord Kilmorey, the owner of the Opera Comique, 
would only give a limited lease to the Company, 
preferring to have a personal tenant in Mr. Carte 
himself and on this basis all the contracts were 
made to finish on a certain date, June 3Oth, and on 



iSo JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

July ist, when the " Company " canie to enter their 
own theatre as they thought, the row began, and 
as Mr. Carte had three years' personal agreements 
with all the artistes, and Gilbert and Sullivan the 
authors with him, he carried the day. For some 
time, in consequence of this trouble, the copyright 
of " Pinafore " was questioned, everybody concerned 
holding that the registered rights were their own 
specific vested interest, with the result that more 
or less concurrent with the Opera Comique run 
performances by rival combinations at the now 
defunct Royal Aquarium and Olympic Theatres also 
took place. D'Oyly Carte, however, having the 
authors, the operas and the artistes with him, the 
rest is history only too well known the Savoy was 
built out of the profits made at the Opera Comique, 
and all went happy as a marriage bell till the 
famous " carpet " split, which was not accurately 
related in the obituaries of the late Sir William 
Gilbert. 

The story current at the time was that the Savoy 
Theatre was owned by two separate entities. 
Gilbert, Sullivan and Carte a tria jimcta in uno, 
as ground landlords, and D'Oyly Carte per se as a 
tenant of the trio. It is stated that a carpet bought 
for the lessee per se was charged to the tria-juncta- 
uno account perfectly justifiably, and Gilbert 
objected. Sullivan agreed that Carte was right, 
and so came the little rift in the managerial lute. 
There was also said to be some dissatisfaction on 
the part of Gilbert over his investment in the Savoy 
Hotel, but that was evidently only a side issue 

Mr. Fletcher, of Saltoun, knew a wise man who 
cared little " who should make the laws of a nation " 
so long as he was " permitted to make all the 
ballads," a more or less excellent sentiment which 
if practised in these times might do a good deal 
towards leading certain popular and patriotic ideals 
to their honourable end. We all know to mention 
only a few, the revolutionary advantages of " Ca 
Ira " " The Marseillaise " Mehul's " Chant du 
Depart " stolen by Braham for " The Death of 
Nelson " (let me here parenthetically remark that 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 181 

in Paris the great success of Offenbach's " La Fille 
du Tambour Major " was Mehul's " Chant du 
Depart," but when it was done at the Alhambra in 
London this climax was a great failure, as the 
British public recognized the tune as " The Death 
of Nelson"). 

There are in modern records many inaccuracies 
to be dealt with. 

First, in Mr. Harold Simpson's " A Century of 
English Ballads," it is stated that Balfe wrote 
" Killarney " for Dion Boucicault. This is quite 
an error. I have it on the authority of Mrs. 
Edmund Falconer, whose husband was the original 
Danny Mann in " The Colleen Bawn," that Balfe 
wrote " Killarney " for her husband for introduction 
into one of his Irish dramas (I think " Peep o' 
Bay"), and that Falconer gave Balfe almost his 
last hundred pounds for so doing. " We could ill 
afford the money," said Mrs Falconer. " It was all 
our savings at the time, but Edmund would part 
with it." And to this Edmund nodded. This took 
place in 1876, when the Falconers stopped with nay 
family in Dublin the time the dramatist was doing 
a libretto to Goldsmith's " Deserted Village " for 
my grandfather. Edmund Falconer was manager 
of Drury Lane in 1866. 

Another error in the same book is about " Spring, 
Spring, Gentle Spring." It is here stated that 
Riviere hawked it about, and it was refused by 
every London publisher. Nothing of the sort ! 
Riviere himself was in partnership with the elder 
Oliver Hawkes, in the music-publishing trade in 
Leicester Square, to which house he had just then 
removed from Soho Square. Hawkes was a horn 
player in Queen Victoria's Private Band, and the 
firm of Riviere and Hawkes actually printed the 
waltz before it was sung, and I am told it was 
actually rehearsed from the proof sheets, although 
Riviere nearly sold it afterwards to Mr. Hop wood. 
It made an enormous success. Except " Silver 
Threads among the Gold " I do not know of any 
piece of music in those days which obtained so 
great a vogue. It was published in three different 



182 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 



keys, as a fantasia, a waltz, a song, a quadrille, a 
polka, with three different band arrangements of 
string, brass, fife and drum, as an " Air varie " 
for a great flute-soloist, and many other versions. 
Hopwood, of Hopwood & Crew, offered ^20 for it, 
but Riviere and Hawkes stuck to it, and the com- 
poser netted 2000 for his share of the royalties. 

A similar success also let it be marked again in 
Covent Garden was A. Gwyllym Crowe's " See- 
Saw." This was written on what some of the older 
musicians call the " catchy fourth," i.e. the first 
interval of the melody descends a fourth and there 
are thousands of examples of this melodic mechaa- 
ism. I will to prove my case quote only three of 
the more popular \vhich will arise in th? public 
i.iind Crowe's ualtz, the Cell song frcni " Les 
Cloches de Corneville," and the Soldiers' Chorus 
from Gounod's " Faust." 

i. The See-vSaw waltz. 



Tenijx> di Valte. 




2. The Bell song, " Cloches de Corneville." 
Moderate. 












3. Gounod's " Faust," Soldiers' Chorus. 
Tempo di Marcia. 




To simplify matters, I have written all these in 
the same key, but it will be found that they each of 
them lead off with an interval of a fourth C to G 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 183 

descending. It has no musical significance, and is 
merely a trick of the trade curious to note. 

" Spring " was Riviere's only great success as a 
composer, although as an arranger he did a lot of 
good work, but he was in his zenith at this time, 
and as a French poet had it : 

" L'eau va toujours a la Riviere. 
C'est un fait dument constate 
C'est un dicton tres populaire 
D'incontestable verite." 

" Babil and Bijou," in which " Spring, Gentle 
Spring " was introduced, was Boucicault's biggest 
artistic failure, and the late Earl Londesborough's 
greatest financial loss. 

Speaking of Boucicault, he loomed large about 
this period. His " Shaughraun " was packing 
Drury Lane, and he appealed to Mr. Disraeli to 
liberate the Irish political prisoners as a concession 
to the great English sympathy shown to the Drury 
Lane play. At this time there were many Irish 
" treason " prisoners in Australian jails, and Bouci- 
cault wanted to credit the Drury Lane cheers to a 
demand for " Amnesty " which was well agitating 
the public mind at the time, but Disraeli accused 
him of " playing to the gallery to advertise his forth- 
coming tour," and refused when questioned in the 
House of Commons to interfere. 

This the dramatist scornfully repudiated, and 
to prove his sincerity, Dion Boucicault threw up 
fcis personal interest a matter of hundreds of 
thousands of pounds and allowed the part of 
" Conn " in the " Shaughraun " to be played by 
anybody. One of the originals was an actor named 
Hubert O'Grady, to whom Boucicault on the first 
night of the production of the " Shaughraun " at 
the Gaiety, Dublin, wired from America : 

" For heaven's sake cut down the Wake scene, or 
all's up." 

" Conn, the Shraughraun," in this production 
was afterwards played by a great comedian named 
Charlie Sullivan. 

On his deathbed in Liverpool, Charlie Siillivan, 



184 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

whom I knew very well, was in the last throes of 
pneumonia. " Good night, Charlie," said the 
Doctor, grasping his hand, " I'll see you in the 
morning." " I know you will," said Charlie, 
"but the question is will I see you?" He died 
two hours later. 

E. T. Smith once offered Boucicault Drury Lane 
Theatre. " Six thousand pounds, old man ; you walk 
in, 1 walk out " said E. T. Smith over a dinner 
conversation. 

" vSix thousand pounds you give me you stop in 
I keep out." 

But to resume about songs. " Tommy Atkins," 
one of the few rousing ditties which will last, and 
possesses something more than a mere ephemeral 
topicality, came to the front in a weird fashion. 
Harry Hamilton had been commissioned to write 
six songs for a play called " Captain Fritz," for a 
Mr. Charles Arnold the original Tony in " My 
Sweetheart " the play (not Hamilton's) was a 
failure, but George Edwardes heard the song in 
the country production and noted its great possi- 
bilities, and Arnold for a consideration willingly 
dispossessed himself of the London rights in Mr. 
Edwardes' favour. It was as rousing a redcoat 
lyric as ever was written, and when it was intro- 
duced on the first night of " The Gaiety Girl " into 
that play, it created a sensation at the Prince of 
Wales'. The music was written by an old friend 
of mine, Satn Potter, the musical director of the 
now defunct Sam Hague's Minstrels at Liverpool. 
Sam Hague was a kind of provincial Moore and 
Burgess. Mr. Wilcocks, the publisher of " Tommy 
Atkins," when he discovered what an Eldorado he 
possessed, tried to " corner " the burnt-cork chef's 
future output, and it is said received this laconic 
reply : 

" DEAR SIR, 

" I am in receipt of your kind favour. I 
have lots of better songs than ' Tommy Atkins,' 
five shillings each. I never charge less. 
" Yours truly, 

" SAM POTTER." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 185 

Leslie Stuart (or Barrett, as his real name is) 
could tell some funny experiences of resuscitated 
songs. In 1881, he wrote one for an Exhibition 
of the Manchester Ship Canal at Blackpool. No- 
body in their wildest enthusiasm could call the 
Exhibition or the song successes, but many years 
later I heard Hayden Coffin sing in "An Artist's 
Model " at Daly's, a sarcastic ditty about " The 
Soldiers of the Queen, who loved to stop at home 
and let the others go out to fight," to the same 
melody. This unpatriotic idea was not a success, 
and in that form the song had a short life. 
But not so for Leslie ! He never let a good tune 
drop. Up it bobbed serenely as the real " Soldiers 
of the Queen " during the African war recruiting 
period and took England by storm. 

I know of so many instances where judgment 
has erred as to songs, that only one or two will 
suffice. The sensational success of an evening of 
successes in " Florodora " was " Tell me, pretty 
maiden." It is generally said that its excision 
was nearly insisted upon at rehearsal, but a more 
flagrant instance was Shiel Barry's nearly carrying 
his point to have the miser scene eliminated from 
the "Cloches de Corneville." 

I took Fragson, the popular French Chanteur, to 
Willie Boosey to sell six songs Boosey bought 
five, but absolutely refused to touch " Whispers of 
Love." As we went out of the door I said, " Come, 
Fragson, we'll try Ascherberg (another publisher) 
with it." "Well," said Boosey, "throw it in with 
the rest, but I don't want it." It made the more 
sensational success of the pantomime and the 
season; the other five well, nobody ever heard of 
them. 

It was absolutely impossible to get poor dear 
lazy Arthur Sullivan to do " The Absent-Minded 
Beggar." The then plain Alfred Hartnsworth 
raved, Kennedy Jones telephoned, the entire staff 
of the " Daily Mail " lived on the composer's door- 
step in Victoria Street; but to no purpose, and the 
song was announced to be sung at the Alhambra 
on a fast-approaching Monday evening. So, 



186 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Kennedy Jones got on the 'phone to Sullivan's 
secretary, Wilfred Bendall, and asked him to do 
" something like ' Tommy Atkins ' " the opening 
strains of which Kennedy hummed on the 'phone, 
and in a few hours down to George Byng's music 
room in the Alhambra the MS. of the piano and 
voice part was triumphantly carted. Byng sat up 
late, scored it, and the eulogisms of the Press the 
next morning spoke highly of " the well-known 
rnusicianly orchestration of Sir Arthur Sullivan." 
" In his best Savoy style." " Sullivanesque " to a 
degree. 

Many years ago I travelled with an " Adamless 
Eden " Company of ladies only. In our repertoire 
we had a sentimental song called " My Nellie's Blue 
Eyes." A parodied version of the song found its 
way into the hands of Mr. Charles Coborn, who 
with " Two Lovely Black Eyes," drew all London to 
the Trocadero. But Coborn, who prided himself on 
his French, and Lord " Ned " de Clifford Pelicans 
both made a serious slip when they worked out a 
French version of the chorus in the old Pelicon 
Club. Coborn was a very good French scholar but 
they could only get at : 

" Deux beaux yeux noirs, 
Moi, del quel horreur " etc. 

which, as Euclid says, is absurd, for " noir " is 
black in the sense of colour if black can be a 
colour. " Pochl a I' ce.il " is to blacken the optic 
by force; and the line should have read : 

" Deux beaux yeux poches ! 

But Coborn stuck to his guns. Besides, it was a 
beautiful Cockney rhyme to "horreur"! but it 
occasioned a rather pleasant Royal incident which 
is interesting. One evening I met the late Duke of 
Clarence at a smoking concert given at the excel- 
lently managed Beaufort Club the latter fact not 
surprising when such a fine old gentleman and man 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 187 

of the world as the late Duke of Beaufort was head 
of affairs. At these particular soirees, the Duke 
was round and about, and if not doing, at any rate 
was always seeing things properly done. It was 
intimated that Prince Albert Victor had graciously 
consented to look in at the Beaufort smoking 
concert on the particular night of the visit, when 
the Duke was in the chair, and the fact was kept 
very dark. The result was the Royal visitor came, 
and apparently spent a very pleasant night, and 
made everybody exceedingly comfortable. Every- 
body was delighted to see His Royal Highness 
with so many of his father's good qualities and 
genial tastes, and he certainly showed none of the 
shyness which he had by common gossip been 
charged with. 

He sat and applauded, an,d evidently appreciated 
what is called " good music," and was the first to 
laugh at a good joke, and a funny song, when it 
came along. We were all more or less young men 
then, and he felt at home and made us feel so too. 
During a portion of the evening I sat within two 
rows of the chair, and it did my heart good to see 
him join with us in raising the roof by shouting 
the chorus of this almost " National Anthem," 
" Two Lovely Black Eyes." When, however, the 
comic singer sang what he called the already men- 
tioned French version, " Deux beaux yeux noirs " 
which, as I said, is not French at all I saw 
H.R.H.'s brows knit, as his sensitive ear was 
pained by the awful solecisms of the Cockney 
French. 

It evidently troubled him, for, a few moments 
afterwards he took a pencil and the back of an 
envelope from his pocket and employed them 
furtively under the table. He seemed to think and 
write with great intentness for a minute or two. A 
smile of contentment lit up his features as he 
surveyed the result. Things went on quietly till 
he became absorbed in another item on the 
programme, when in turning round he swept the 
scrap of paper from the table to the floor. I kept 
my eye upon it all the evening, and, when 



i88 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

the Royal party left, I stole it. It bore these 
words : 

" Deux beaux yeux poch.es ! 
Me v'la epate 
je n'ai que dit : 
' T'as tort, mon petit' 
Deux beaux yeux poches ! " 

His brother, our present King, has also a happy 
knack of making others feel happy and contented 
when in his presence, whether social or official. 
I remember when as Prince of Wales he came to 
Drury Lane one night, and Mr. Collins enquired if 
he liked the pantomime, the reply was, " Yes, but 
the Princess has a headache." "Oh," said the 
manager, " I will send down to Mr. Glover to 
moderate his brass and drums." " No no no," 
was the quick genial reply, " I wouldn't annoy Mr. 
Glover for the world." " Oh, he won't be annoyed," 
said the manager. This charming thought has 
governed everything the popular Monarch has clone. 

Another experience at the Trocadero with Coborn, 
was when he sang " The Man who Broke the Bank 
at Monte Carlo." The audience simply would not 
have the song at any price. They hooted, howled, 
and hissed till one night Coborn made a speech 
somewhat in this strain : 

" Ladies and gentlemen, I am engaged here for 
twelve weeks. It is my living. I am bound by 
contract. Now for twelve weeks I am going to sing 
this song every night and repeat the chorus till you 
join in with me. The sooner you learn it, and sing 
it with me then will I leave the stage; but not 
before." 

And London, in three months, reeked of " The Man 
who Broke the Bank at Monte Carlo." 

It was at the Trocadero that Eugene Stratton, 
who married a daughter of " Pony " Moore, of 
Moore and Burgess' minstrels, first trod the English 
music-halls, when he left the St. James Hall and 
Burnt-cork land ; it was the old story, with a black 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 189 

face they knew him and loved him, yet when he 
sang " The Whistling Coon " with a white face, 
well, as the American Lady says, " there were 
chilblains in the box-office." Frost, large and deep, 
attended poor Eugene so back he had to go to 
popularity, fame and fortune with the burnt-cork 
make-up. 

This reminds me of Aynsley Cook the great Carl 
Rosa buffo-vocalist and the late Mr. Sankey of! 
Moody and Sankey, and once famous Evangelists. 
Many people are not aware that at least one of 
these Evangelists was a vocalist in a minstrel er w er- 
tainrnent in America many years before they c~.^e 
to England on their religious mission. They came 
to Liverpool on their great campaign, and at a 
time when Aynsley Cook, as the Baron in " The 
Babes of the Wood," was singing a topical song 
called " It's a fraud." 

Cook I certainly think unwisely brought in the 
Moody and Sankey movement, ending with the 
gag- words "It's a fraud." This brought on an 
acrimonious newspaper warfare, and Aynsley 
Cook's disclosures in self-defence of the burnl-cork 
attributes of the popular Evangelist. 

Perhaps one of the most daring efforts of im- 
promptu minstrelsy was when the late Arthur 
Lloyd sang before the late King (then Prince of 
Wales), when H.R.H. was in the chair at a smoking 
concert of the Royal Amateur Orchestral Society : 

" I must now award a word of praise to a guest who's 

sitting there. 

I mean that worthy party who so ably fills the Chair. 
See how sweetly now he smiles, as pleasant as 

can be ; 
It's a sort of smile I read about but very seldom 

see." 

This sort of impromptu versification was once 
very popular. The singer came on, demanded a 
subject or word from the audience, and immediately 
improvised a verse as suggested above. " Give me 
a word, ladies and gentlemen," said the great 
Disraelian propagandist, Charles Williams, a one- 



igo JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

time famous motto-vocalist, one night at the 
Paragon in the Mile End Road. " Metem- 
psychosis," shouted a voice from the rear of the 
hall, said to be the late dramatist, Henry Pettit. 
" Pardon me," replied the vocalist, " I never touch 
on religious matters." 

" Ta-ra-ra-boom-de-ay " made the fortunes of a 
Grand Theatre, Islington, pantomime. " Bally- 
hooley " and " Killaloe " did the same for Gaiety 
plays. " The Bogie Man " in " Carmen Up-to-date " 
at the same house drew London ; and the late F. H. 
Celli gave success to " La Boulangere " at the Old 
Globe with Tosti's " For Ever and for Ever." As 
I have explained, Arthur Sullivan was very much 
chagrined when Teddy Solomon made his " Lost 
Chord " the counter-melody of a Guards' Burlesque 
hornpipe ; so in like manner Ascherberg, the music- 
publisher, never forgave me a similar " true " with 
the " Cavalleria " Intermezzo at Drury Lane. 
Thousands went to the old " Pav." to hear Bessie 
Bellwood sing " Alphonso the Fancy Man." 

" Dorothy " first produced (a failure) at the 
Gaiety lacked a song for Hayden Coffin. In the 
absence in Australia of Alfred Cellier, the composer, 
those representing him here refused to allow any 
composition to be introduced but one of the original 
composer's. In this wise a song called " Old 
Dreams," published by the same publisher, was 
found, and, with new words by B. C. Stephenson, 
was introduced into the piece under the name of 
" Queen of my Heart." 

There is a general impression that this song was 
first sung on the first night at the Gaiety. Such 
was not the case. The Press rated the manage- 
ment for leaving Coffin without a song, and the 
introduction was made as above stated, but the 
opera was a distinct failure, till it was bought over 
through the confidence of a musical accountant 
named H. J. Leslie, who took it to the Prince of 
Wales' Theatre and gave it nearly a new cast with 
Ben Davies and Marie Tempest to strengthen the 
work. 

Conspicuous in another Gaiety play was " Linger 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 195 

Longer, Lucy," the first success of a young com- 
poser, Sidney Jones. Sidney was first clarinet in 
his father's police baud at Leeds, and obtained his 
introduction to the theatre through succeeding me 
in the musical direction of an itinerant " Fun on 
the Bristol " Company, from which post I had 
resigned over a difference in pitch with a coloured 
Prima Donna. His greater successes " The 
Geisha " and " San Toy," not to mention many 
other favourites, all justified his early promise. 

" Beer, Glorious Beer," one of the most insidious, 
vulgar, catchy tunes ever heard, was written by a 
stenographer named Stephen Leggatt, in Sir 
Augustus Harris' employ. The song made him; a 
realization of the sentiment finished him ! The 
poor boy had a horrible facility for " knocking off " 
cheap specimens of this kind, and on our visits to 
the Continent, when he accompanied Sir Augustus, 
Collins and myself, it was as much as we could do 
to get him to do the letters. Harris had a specifically- 
halting way of dictating, and often would say, when 
at a loss for a word, " Tir-a-la, tir-a-la, tir-a-la, tir- 
a-la," etc., etc. This poor stenographer's brain 
would then, like a famous lyrist we all know, 
wander off into " pantechnicon pantechnicon yes, 
yes what rhymes with pantechnicon," and then 
his master would resume the result being a con- 
glomeration of Pitman's shorthand, his master's 
side-talk, and a couplet or two of a song his mind! 
was just then working out. Poor boy ! He deserved 
a better fate. 

Before concluding this chapter I will recount one 
more humorous reference to the Trocadero as a 
music-hall ; Bignell, who ran the old dancing casino, 
never did much with it. Later on, Mr. Sam Adams 
tried it, and Mr. Albert Chevalier with H. J. 
Didcott, a famous agent, had a " flutter," which 
ended in nothing. Sam Adams had a policy of 
deadheads to run the bars with, which in one 
instance gave rise to a very funny incident. He 
used to issue thousands of free seats and stamp 
them all with an india-rubber stamp, " NOT 
ADMITTED AFTER SEVEN." This ensured the 



192 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

place being crowded by seven, and when the regular 
public arrived, they had either to " transfer " to, or 
purchase a higher place seat. Sain was in financial 
difficulties, and as a last parting shot engaged 
Paulus, the Parisian comique, then in his " En 
Revenant de la Revue " prime. But a kindly friend, 
Clement Scott, was induced to do Paulus' ddbut for 
the " Daily Telegraph," in those days a wonderful 
feat a real live dramatic critic to go to a low music- 
hall, and the next morning there appeared a column 
of praise for the importation of " the atmosphere of 
the Boulevards to Piccadilly." All London rushed 
to book seats, and during the day cash, cheques, 
and postal orders galore weighed down Sam Adams' 
table. How well I remember his delight on his 
sudden accession to wealth. Now Sam had a large 
overdraft on his bank and the manager was holding 
on in expectation of this engagement getting him 
out of Sam's clutches ; so the music-hall proprietor 
promised to " pay in " at once. Some hundreds of 
pounds therefore were sent down before four o'clock, 
when Sam's representative came back and threw 
the entire deposit on the office Escritoire. 

"For God's sake! " cried Adams, "what's the 
matter? What's wrong? Are they all stumers 
(i.e. worthless) ? " 

" No," said the clerk, " but look at what you've 
stamped them." 

Adams rushed to the bundle of crumpled briefs 
and there it was ; in the hurry of keeping his word 
to the Bank manager he had used the wrong rubber 
stamp. Nearly every cheque bore this simple, but 
useless legend : 

"NOT ADMITTED AFTER SEVEN." 



CHAPTER XII 

A National Opera-house No Permanent Orches- 
tras in London in 1888 Bricks and Mortar Maple- 
son's Police Station National Opera-house How to 
really secure a National Academy of Music Augus- 
tus Harris' Project How to collect a Permanent 
Nucleus Mapleson's Discoveries Opera Schemes 
and Schools of Music Sir Joseph Barnby Operatic 
Fortunes How Good Opera pays Carl Rosa's 
Discoveries. 

FERDINAND GLOVER, baritone in the Pyne 
and Harrison Opera Company, my uncle, died, 
in 1859. In his papers I find a newspaper reference 
in an Irish Journal : "Is there a future for English 
opera?" On Saturday, April 29th, 1911, fifty-two 
years later, I find Mr. Charles Manners asking 
the same question in the " Morning Post." I have 
elsewhere in this volume dealt casually with 
the various points as to opera, merely making the 
references personal. It is a wide subject^ but the 
whole scheme must be taken as to music generally, 
and there is no reason why the same successful 
results should not ensue for English opera as a 
dramatic fabric as have resulted from English music 
as an orchestral education. My personal experi- 
ences extend from the August Manns period in the 
'Sixties, through all the history of these interesting 
developments down to the knighthood of Henry J. 
Wood, and the Guildhall principalship of Landon 
Ronald and his New Symphony Band successes. 
Given the musical groundwork with which to 
experiment, anything is possible. Henry Wood 
G 193 



194 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

conducted musical comedy for Miss May Yohe (in 
"The Lady Slavey") at the Avenue; Landon 
Ronald had a like experience (" L' Amour Mouille ") 
at the Lyric ; Charles Manners was in the chorus of 
Solomon's " Claude Duval " at the Olympic, and 
afterwards sang the Sentry Song in " lolanthe " at 
the Savoy; and Walter Hyde went from the 
frivolities of " Miss Hook of Holland," a trivial 
musical song and dance olla podrida, to a trium- 
phant Siegmund in " The Valkyrie," by Richard 
Wagner, at Co vent Garden. I have made so few 
quotations in these memoirs that the following may 
be easily pardoned. Listen to what Colonel J. H. 
Mapleson, the elder, writes about English orchestras 
in iSSS : 

" While on the subject of American orchestras, 
I may add that their excellence is scarcely sus- 
pected by English amateurs. In England we have 
certainly an abundance of good orchestral players, 
but we have not so many musical centres ; and, 
above all, ive have not in London, what New York 
has long possessed, a permanent orchestra of high 
merit under a first-rate conductor. Our orchestras 
in London are nearly always ' scratch ' affairs. 
The players are brought together anyhow, and 
not one of our concert societies give more than 
eight concerts in the course of the year. Being paid 
so much a performance, our piece-work musicians 
make a great fuss about attending rehearsals ; 
they are always ready, if they can make a few 
shillings' profit by it, to have themselves replaced 
by substitutes. 

" All really good orchestras must from the nature 
of the case be permanent ones, composed of players 
in receipt of regular salaries. Attendance at 
rehearsals is then taken as a matter of course, and 
no question of replacement by substitutes can then 
be raised. The only English orchestra in which the 
conditions essential to a perfect ensemble are to be 
found is the Manchester orchestra (Note : mostly 
foreigners at this time), conducted by Sir Charles 
Halle." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 195 

Fancy! " We had not in London " a permanent 
orchestra of high merit under a first-rate conductor 
all "scratch" affairs only eight concerts in the 
course of a year ! But sufficient for the simile. 
Review the altered conditions here in 1912. Every 
concert-hall and music-hall on Sundays, or any 
possible building now has either its " permanent 
orchestra," or regular season. Conductors shower 
upon us, musicians even invest their own money 
to form their personal combinations ; in the old days 
the conductor engaged the musicians, now it is 
different the men engage the man. " Richter, 
unless you conduct well, we won't have you next 
season." Fancy this position! But what T insist 
is that exactly that which has been done in 
orchestral music can be done in opera. It is all non- 
sense to say the material " n'existe pas." It is 
there, and plenty of it, and it would be much more 
evident if the possible Tetrazzini, Caruso, or Melba 
knew exactly that they could command a market. 
I first wrote all this on the eve of the opening of 
Hammerstein's Opera-house. I knew that Mr. 
Hammerstein would be careful ! If, in the lan- 
guage of his own countrymen, he could " deliver 
the goods," well and good. Bricks and mortar were 
easy to buy. You can go into any wholesale 
builder's in London any day and order ten thousand 
bricks, but one Caruso to sing in them when they 
are put together is another affair. Did Mapleson 
and, in his one Grand Opera venture, D'Oyly 
Carte start at the wrong end ? " What are you 
building this Royal Opera-house for?" said Sir 
Augustus Harris to D'Oyly Carte one evening. 
Harris really was jealous. " One of these days, 
Carte, I will turn it into a rmisic-hall for you." 
There are plenty of " bricks and mortar " institu- 
tions ready ; it seems superfluous to encumber 
the land with them till you have got the 
talent. 

Now let us see what Mapleson did. Here is his 
programme for " The Grand National Opera-house, 
Scotland Yard'," for few people know that the 
present New Scotland Yard was the site half built 



196 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

of Mapleson's white elephant. This was December 
i6th, 1875 : 

CEREMONY OF LAYING THE FIRST STONE 

OF THE 

GRAND NATIONAL OPERA-HOUSE 
VICTORIA EMBANKMENT 

Holders of Cards of Invitation will not be admitted 
after 1.15 

" The bands of the Coldstream Guards and 
Honourable Artillery Company will be in attend- 
ance, and a Guard of Honour will line the entrance. 

" His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh and 
Suite will arrive at the Victoria Embankment at 
half-past one o'clock. 

" His Royal Highness will be received by Mr. W. 
H. Smith, M.P., Sir James Hogg, Chairman of the 
Metropolitan Board of Works, Mr. F. H. Fowler, the 
Architect, and Mr. J. H. Mapleson, the Director of 
the National Opera. 

" On arrival at the platform, an address will be 
read to the Duke of Edinburgh in the name of the 
founders of the Grand National Opera-house. 

" His Royal Highness the Duke of Edinburgh will 
then proceed to lay the first stone. 

" The trowel will be handed to His Royal 
Highness by Mr. Mapleson, the Director; the 
plumb-rule and level by Mr. F. H. Fowler, the 
Architect; and the Mallet by Mr. W. Webster, 
the Builder. 

" On the completion of the ceremony, His Royal 
Highness will make a brief reply to the address. 

" The Duke of Edinburgh will then be conducted 
to his carriage at the entrance, by which His Royal 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 197 

Highness arrived, and will drive to St. Stephen's 
Club. 

"St. Stephen's Club, 
" i6th December, 1875." 

The following address was then read by Sir James 
McGarel Hogg : 

" Your Royal Highness, On behalf of the founders 
of the Grand National Opera-house, I have the 
honour to present to your Royal Highness the 
following address in which the objects of the under- 
taking are set forth : 

" The establishment of a National Opera-house in 
London has long been contemplated, the obstacle 
to which, however, was the impossibility of finding 
a suitable site ; and it was not until that vast under- 
taking was carried out by the Metropolitan Board 
of Works, which has resulted in reclaiming from 
the Thames large tracts of land, and in throwing 
open the great thoroughfare of the Victoria 
Embankment, that a site sufficient to meet the 
requirements of a National Opera-house could be 
obtained ; and it is this building that your Royal 
Highness is graciously pleased to inaugurate 
to-day. 

" The National Opera-house is to be devoted firstly 
to the representation of Italian Opera, which will 
be confined as heretofore to the spring and summer 
months ; and secondly, to the production of the 
works of English composers, represented by English 
performers, both vocal and instrumental. 

"It is intended, as far as possible, to connect 
the Grand National Opera-house with the Royal 
Academy of Music, the National Training School for 
Music, and other kindred institutions in the United 
Kingdom, by affording to duly-qualified students a 
field for the exercise of their profession in all its 
branches. 

" The privilege, which it is the intention of the 
Director to grant to the most promising of these 
students, of being allowed to hear the works of the 



198 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

greatest masters performed by the most celebrated 
artistes, will, in itself, form an invaluable accessory 
to their general training. 

" Instead of being compelled to seek abroad 
further instruction when their prescribed course at 
the various establishments is finished, they will 
thus be able to obtain this at home, and more 
quickly and efficiently profit by example. 

" In Paris, when sufficiently advanced, the 
students can make a short step from the Conserva- 
toire to the Grand Opera ; so it is hoped that English 
students will use the legitimate means now offered 
and afforded for the first time in this country of 
perfecting their general training, whether as 
singers, instrumentalists, or composers, according 
to their just claims. 

" In conclusion, I beg leave to invite your Royal 
Highness to proceed with the ceremony of laying the 
first stone of the New Grand National Opera-house. 

" Grand National Opera-house, 
"Victoria Embankment, 
" i6th December, 1875." 

Mapleson intended this to be the leading Opera- 
house of the world. The building was entirely 
isolated ; a station had been built beneath the house 
in connection with the District Railway, so that the 
audience on leaving had merely to descend the stairs 
and enter the train. Dressing-rooms, containing 
lockers, were provided for suburban visitors who 
might wish to attend the opera. Subterranean 
passages, moreover, led into the Houses of Parlia- 
ment, and arrangements made by which silent 
members, after listening to beautiful music instead 
of dull debates, might return to the House on 
hearing the division-bell. He was sanguine enough 
to think the Parliamentary support thus secured 
would alone have given an ample source of revenue. 

He had arranged with the Lyric Club, which 
ultimately settled down in Coventry Street, to lease 
one corner; the Royal Academy of Music, who are 
only going into their new building this year, 
agreed to take another. The contemplated buildings 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 199 

included a new concert-room, together with a large 
gallery for pictures not accepted by the Hanging 
Committee of the Royal Academy, to be called " The 
Rejected Gallery." Shades of Drury Lane! 
"" Rejected addresses." 

There were recreation-rooms, too, for the principal 
artistes, including billiard-tables, etc., besides two 
very large Turkish baths, which, it was hoped, 
would be of service to the manager in cases of sore 
throat and sudden indisposition generally. Such 
was the fantastic idea, even so far as appointing 
two throat doctors, Dr. (afterwards " Sir ") Morell 
Mackenzie and Mr. Lennox Browne. 

Sir John Humphreys had arranged for the pur- 
chase of a small steamer to act as tug to a large 
house-boat, which would, from time to time, take 
the members of the Company down the river for 
reheasals or recreation. The steamer was being 
built by Thornycrofts. The house-boat was of un- 
usually large dimensions, and contained a mag- 
nificent concert-room. 

The nautical arrangements had been confided to 
Admiral Sir George Middleton, a member of the 
acting committee ; or, in his absence, to Lord Alfred 
Paget. 

When about ^103,000 had been laid out on the 
building, another ^10,000 was wanted for the roof- 
ing; after which a sum of ^50,000, as already 
arranged, could have been attained on mortgage. 
For want of ^10,000, however, the building had to 
remain roofless. For backing or laying against a 
horse, for starting a new sporting club, or a new 
music-hall, the money could have been found in 
a few hours. But for such an enterprise as the 
National Opera-house it was impossible to obtain 
it ; and, after a time, in the interest of the stock- 
holders (for there was a ground rent to pay of 
^3000) Mapleson consented to a sale. 

The purchasers were Messrs. Quilter, Morris and 
Tod Heatly, to whom the building was made over, 
as it stood, for ^29,000. 

Later on, it was resold for 500 ; and the new 
buyers had to pay no less than ^3000 in order to 



200 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

get the walls pulled down and broken up into 
building materials. 

The site of what, with a little public spirit use- 
fully applied, would have been the finest theatre in 
the world, has now to serve for a new police-station. 
"With such solid foundations, the cells, if not com- 
fortable, will at least be dry. It is stated that the 
underground rooms in the original scheme, which 
were to do duty for future Melbas, Tetrazzinis and 
Carusos, are now the receptacles of the " elect " of 
the Metropolitan Police Department at Scotland 
Yard. 

MORAL. 

December, 1875 Mapleson tries to build an opera- 
house. (Turned into a police-station.) 

December, 1890 D'Oyly Carte builds an opera- 
house. (Turned into a music-hall.) 

December, 1911 Hammerstein builds an opera- 
house. (Result Just now in the balance.) 

October, 1912 Hammerstein opera-house is for 
sale. 

Now, Mr. Carte, in his light opera scheme, really 
laid himself out to do the right thing. He first 
got his operas, his artistes, and his " material " 
together, and then but not till then did he build 
his Savoy. Following the success of " H.M.S. 
Pinafore," he personally secured Gilbert and 
Sullivan and the entire personnel of his scheme 
before he bought a brick. He only failed in Shaftes- 
bury Avenue because he applied light opera methods 
to grand opera requirements. Had he gone on his 
Savoy business model and stuck to general operas 
instead of only one, " Ivanhoe," what a different 
result there might have been. I do not know 
exactly what the Royal English Opera cost, but 
Mapleson says that he spent ^103,000, and Carte 
must have spent ^125,000; so let us make a small 
arithmetical calculation 



Colonel Mapleson .... 103,000 

Mr. D'Oyly Carte .... i25',ooo 
Mr. Thos. Beecharn (by his own admission) 70,000 

298,000 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 201 

That is over a quarter of a million of money, and 
" nothing doing." Mr. Thomas Beecham I first 
remember him as conductor of a modest provincial 
opera company of course, did not indulge in the 
"bricks and mortar" idea; he decided, somewhat 
haphazardly, one must admit, to start, and then 
to look round for his artistes. Then of course he 
discovered that all the remunerative copyrights 
belonged to the Covent Garden Syndicate legacies 
of the Augustus Harris Estate which, on his death, 
with the accompanying scenery, the older house 
bought for about ; 12,000. 

What a wise policy on the part of this operatic 
musical Machiavelli of the Victorian Era. He first 
of all " corners " all the operas; he then similarly 
garners in the artistes, and when in possession of 
both well, he takes the opera-houses. These 
points of view of mine are not new. I have 
expounded them before in public, but not in such 
detail. I originally had a scheme to divert all the 
young operatic talent of our musical academies to 
Covent Garden and Drury Lane. Augustus Harris 
accepted it, and with the kind assistance of Sir 
Joseph Barnby and Mr. Hilton Carter to be 
referred to lacer we tried to enlist the Guildhall 
School pupils into the scheme ; but this was nine- 
teen years ago prejudices were too strong, and 
our missionary efforts only ended in taking over 
thirty fresh voices from the Savoy, and throwing 
them on to " learn the operas." There is no know- 
ing but that all this might have gone further if it 
were not for Harris' too early death. 

Before leaving this portion of the opera subject 
I must mention a rather smart move which Harris 
made to build up a " permanent " opera troupe. 

One of his pet schemes was, what I called a 
" when opera " contract, and this really was a 
wonderful document. When an operatic artiste 
came to Harris and asked for an engagement if 
the artiste were at all decent, he offered them a 
" when opera " contract that is, an engagement 
at so much a week for three years, only to operate 
when Sir Augustus Harris performed the opera no 



202 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

matter in what language. Now, this contract only 
practically bound Harris to fourteen weeks a year 
the grand opera season and yet the very 
moment he advertised or announced " opera," 
prime donne, contralti, baritones, bassi, and chorus, 
fully equipped with a repertoire, all had to come 
from any part of the world to London. Some of the 
artistes who booked under this contract were Joseph 
O'Mara, David Bispham, Madame Olitzka, the 
Sisters Ravogli, Phillip Brozel, Charles Manners, 
Fanny Moody, Richard Green and numerous others. 
So that this position arose : if Lago, Mapleson or 
other impresario announced a season of opera at 
any London theatre the very next morning would 
appear in all the Press, " Sir Augustus Harris 
announces a short season of grand opera. Full 
particulars shortly." And then off went the cables 
all over the world to those who had signed these 
contracts, and a ready-made opera company was at 
hand in a few days. Lago, however, first brought 
over " Cavalleria Rusticana ; " but it found its 
haven very quickly at Covent Garden, as did both 
the Sisters Ravogli discovered by Lago in like 
manner. 

Carl Rosa worked somewhat on a similar plan, 
and the long procession of " stars " that he dis- 
covered, and the eminent reputation and fortune 
that he left, is a sure testimony to the undoubted 
soundness of his policy. But he left " bricks and 
mortar " alone. Because there is no market for the 
opera stage, there is no output. Because there is no 
output reqtiired, there is no manufactory. The 
operatic classes at our schools of music cannot be 
taken seriously. They are a species of huge 
" Follies " entertainment with none of the " Follies " 
humour. If the market were existent, it might be 
worth while considering the point, and the young 
student, too, might think it worth while to study 
for a branch of his art which he now knows only as 
a useless proposition. The drama in this country, 
musical comedy, and comic opera, flourishes simply 
because it is done according to Cocker. Grand 
opera flourishes because it is subsidized and thus 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 203 

rendered independent of haphazard patronage. 
There remains our " National Opera," be it " opera 
in English," or the national product. Mark you! 
Mapleson in his " Memoirs " really admits twenty 
years insolvency. His book is full of sheriffs 
bailiffs, writs, and injunctions. And yet he boasts 
of discoveries and the first introduction to England 
of fifty-one prime donne and contralti Pattis and 
Nilssons, Trebellis and Sinicos; fourteen tenors, 
from Mongini to Capoul and Fancelli ; sixteen 
baritones, from Jean de Reszke (first heard here as a 
baritone) to Santley and Del Puente ; ten bassi and 
dozens of Marios, Viardots, Giuglinis, Titiens, etc. 
He boasts of twenty-three " first productions," of 
which " Faust " (Gounod), " Carmen " (Bizet), and 
" The Ring " (Wagner) are not the least famous, 
and this without a banking balance ; and yet in spite 
of this we are asked to accept the hypothesis that 
because Mapleson found them, or revived them, 
they all died with the old Colonel. Since the death 
of Augustus Harris, however, the man has not come 
along. The public have always shown their anxiety 
to pay to hear good things if they get the chance. 
Arrange to let them have this opportunity, and there 
will be no need for croakers. Carl Rosa, Augustus 
Harris, and J. Henry Mapleson did not croak from 
the housetops. They " did " something gave the 
country something and achieved something. 

It certainly seems a pity that no better result can 
be obtained, for I do think that more ink has been 
spilled over " National Opera " schemes, schools of 
music, and " academy " talk than would float a 
Dreadnought, but as I have already mentioned and 
suggested, the beginning has always been at the 
wrong end. Just a few words more about how 
Augustus Harris tried to adopt the pet scheme of 
mine for embodying operatic experience not in- 
struction in the curriculum of the various schools 
of music, to which I have referred. It was a natural 
sequence to his " when opera " ideas. If a man 
wants his boy to be an architect, a watchmaker, or 
adopt any other profession or trade, he articles or 
apprentices him to that calling. He is thrown 



204 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

among the professional experts, and in time he be- 
comes imbued with the necessary spirit; the good in 
him the genius in him, if any, comes out, and 
he makes his way. Nobody deplores the dearth of 
engineers, architects, or good handicraftsmen ; but 
periodical howlings arise over the absence of good 
vocalists and good artistes, and yet nobody ever 
moves a finger to get at the right pulse. Harris, if 
he liked, might have done this in 1895. I went 
round to all the colleges with my propaganda already 
mentioned, and found little encouragement. The 
only hope was, as I have said earlier in this chapter, 
at the Guildhall School of Music. 

Sir Joseph Barnby tried his hardest to promote 
our scheme that all the vocal pupils should be 
apprenticed or attached to Drury Lane and Covent 
Garden for three years at a small graduating pay- 
ment. They would, of course, have to join the 
chorus. They would have to be schooled in elocu- 
tion, musical diction, and any regimal attributes 
necessary to operatic training. When an under- 
study was wanted, they would be given according 
to ability and voice, of course an opportunity of 
making a quiet, unostentatious dbut, and if 
successful and encouraging, the rest was easy. The 
scheme is not new in the drama or lighter music 
school ; it has always served, but it had never been 
tried seriously in opera on business lines. It had 
never been place on a practical footing. When one 
now joins the operatic class of any of our music 
academies, it simply means a mere payment of fees, 
a few courses of elementary training from professors, 
who know little of what they profess to teach I 
mean in stage musical training and one annual 
performance in a dull theatre on a dull afternoon to 
a sympathetic but for critical purposes, a useless 
audience of parents and their friends, and the whole 
thing is over. The Covent Garden idea even went 
further. There was to be an entire repertoire of one 
week's operas, like " Faust," " Romeo and Juliet," 
" Cavelleria " and others. These, for chorus purposes, 
were to be immediately put in hand, and as the 
suitable " Fausts," " Romeos," " Turridus " or 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 205 

" Santuzzas," were discovered and got ready, then 
they were to be given a chance with a view to future 
presentation. The scheme was Utopian I admit, in 
serious opera, and it had great possibilities. But 
again, in the terse and epigrammatic language of 
the United States, there was " nothin' doin '." To 
emphasize the veracity of this point, I print the 
decisive ultimatum from Sir Joseph Barnby and Mr. 
Hilton Carter, the then Secretary of the Guildhall 
School of Music, and now the popular manager of 
the Albert Hall. The idea received every help, 
hope and honest encouragement from these gentle- 
men ; but to no purpose, and Hilton Carter on March 
28th, 1895, wired me : 

" No one accepts terms. Barnby and self have 
done our best. HILTON CARTER." 

In the face of such a blow what was the use of 
trying to do anything ? Two theories presented 
themselves to the impresario : 

(1) Were our music schools only to be hot-houses 
for the production of dilettante amateurs whose 
musical education was to be merely a stepping- 
stone to after-dinner torture in suburban drawing- 
rooms ? Or 

(2) Were they to be useful educational centres for 
the encouragement of possible John McCormacks or 
genuine aspirants who really desired a genuine pro- 
fessional training ? 

That we had no proper educational curriculum for 
such a desirable end was evident. Two instances, 
already mentioned, not taking a too serious view of 
the art, will suffice. 

HAYDEN COFFIN was cast, in 1895, for the part of 
" Captain John Smith " in " Pocahontas " at the 
Empire by Edward Solomon and Sydney Grundy. 
The prejudice against him, because he had no 
operatic training or schooling, was so great, that 
the part was wrenched from him at the eleventh 



206 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

hour, and an old hand, F. H. Celli, brought in. Ten 
weeks later the financier, Mr. H. Osborne O'Hagan, 
a gentleman whose musical knowledge is zeroesque, 
insisted that Coffin sang in " The Lady of the 
Locket." Result a sensational success. 

And all have heard how WALTER HYDE was taken 
from " Miss Hook of Holland," to Siegmund in 
" Valkyrie " at Co vent Garden. 

Both these artistes owe their introduction to their 
only possible artistic metier through illegitimate 
channels. Another instance a lady who has since 
been favourably received as " Isolde " at Covent 
Garden, was interviewed by my friend Mr. Sydney 
Elliston at the Prince of Wales' and politely told 
" Everything was full, except for chorus." This lady 
had spent thousands of pounds on her musical 
education. Then again Madame Tetrazzini was 
offered to the Covent Garden management for the 
Grand Opera Season times out of number, and only 
allowed to creep in by the back door of an autumn 
campaign because she was the sister-in-law of 
Campanini, the conductor. This great artiste had 
been well-known for many years on the Continent 
and in the opera-houses of South-America, but for 
some reason or other she never could get a hearing 
in England. The management having theatre, 
copyrights, costumes and scenery on hand, do an 
autumn season, mark this, without practically any 
" subvention " or at best with only a subscription, 
immeasurably smaller in bulk and society than the 
regular May to August campaign. What is the 
result? The supposed non-appreciative British 
public all rush, pack and besiege Covent Garden 
during a period when they cannot be said to pay 
only to see coronets, tiaras and all the panoply of 
over-dressed society; what for to hear an artiste 
because the Press have proclaimed her as one of the 
finest in her line. Was Covent Garden merely a 
peeress's promenade in this season? Certainly 
not! 

I could multiply these instances innumerably, but 
a few will suffice. These little growls are not meant 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 207 

in any unkind spirit, but the same business methods 
that apply in the much belittled musical comedy 
could be applied to Grand Opera or National 
Opera with advantage. I well remember Fanny 
Moody (who was not allowed to be a star at Covent 
Garden) singing at a rehearsal on that stage for a 
performance of " Pagliacci " at Windsor. Man- 
cinelli passed by, remarking to me, " Tiens, tiens, 
est ce qu'il-y-a des chanteuscs comme fa a 
Londres ? " 

Writing on the eve of another opera-house open- 
ing in London, I was sorry to think that it 
was going to follow the fate of similar enterprises 
started in opposition to Covent Garden and end in 
failure. The supply of material from a national 
point of view should be considered. We don't 
want bricks. We want uvulas. 

It is all bunkum to tell me that English or shall 
we call it National ? opera won't pay. Carl Rosa 
left /jS.ooo, and Mapleson and Gye admit in their 
records having made ^24,000 at Covent Garden 
in one year 1879. Augustus Harris left about 
jioo,ooo although how much of it was opera gain 
one knows not. Mr. Charles Manners tells us that 
he has made his " pile " and retires, and yet there 
are the croakers who will go about and shout against 
the musical taste of the public in this direction. 
My theories about these matters may not meet with 
general acceptance, but it is not fair to have the 
musical taste slandered merely because it might be 
wrongly catered for. 

A friend of mine came on hard times once, and 
being a journalist in early life he returned to that 
profession to earn his livelihood, and to keep him- 
self au fait with the times he purchased many 
weekly papers. It was during the old china craze, 
and he noticed the tiresome iteration with which so- 
called specialists averred that " this is very rare," 
" that is the only specimen of so-and-so in existence," 
" there is only one other of these plates known 
now in the possession of a curio-dealer in Boston," 
and so on. "Hello! " said he, "everybody says 
things don't exist, but nobody goes into the 



208 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

highways and byways and looks for them." This he 
decided to do, with the assistance of his wife, and 
with what result? The " solitary one extant" was 
duplicated dozens of times; the " only twelve plates 
on record of this " easily ran into dozens, and 
finding- his market easily he was able to make a 
small fortune. In one case he " had " a relation 
beautifully. This collector boasted of his " rare 

collection of s. This only one extant! " My, 

friend easily bought thirty-six more pieces for 12, 
and sold twelve of them to his relation for ^120 

So it is musically. Everybody cries, " There are 
no prime donne, there are no baritones, there are no 
tenors " ; possibly not walking up and down the 
Strand with labels on their backs. But nobody goes 
out and looks for them. It is the same in a small 
way with harpists. There has always been a sug- 
gestion that harpists are scarce, and the best posi- 
tion in London in this line is held by a foreigner. 
But when I wanted twelve harpists quite recently 
everybody said, " You can't get them they don't 
exist," etc. ; but when it was publicly known that 
1 did want them, I had one hundred and twenty- 
eight applications, and one hundred of them could 
read well at sight. 

When " Hansel and Gretel " was once put on at 
Covent Garden, with Jessie Huddleston and David 
Bispham, many of the subscribers protested. Not 
" good enough for the grand season, don't you 
know," but the impresario stuck to his guns. As 
long as you cater for an exclusive clientele, you 
must put up with this sort of snobbishness. 

But the whole idea wants careful and business- 
like application. When Mr. Manners was at Drury 
Lane many of the opera subscribers sent their 
cheques for half-guinea stalls. When they found 
that the stalls were only six shillings, they 
demanded their money back, as " six-shilling opera 
did not appeal to them." The clientele at Covent 
Garden meant a subsidy of ^800 a night ; the outside 
public, an average ^'300 i.e. 1100. But E .C. 
Hedmondt, an unknown tenor, was able to open at 
Covent Garden in October (not the grand season) 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 209 

with a performance of " Tannhauser," which drew 
^328. Therefore, fashion guaranteed for fashion's 
sake ;Soo, and art for art's sake drew with 
Hennondt's English crowd just as much in October 
as it did in " the grand seasons." I have proved by 
published figures at Drury Lane in Harris' time 
that ^1500 a week can be taken at the doors for 
English opera done spasmodically. What is there 
to be gained when the idea is continuously run on 
a business basis ? Ask Carl Rosa ^78,000. 

So generally it all resolves itself into this, that 
the average aspirant for operatic honours may have 
the requisite voice material, but not the neces- 
sary wherewithal for a Continental education. A 
properly devised scheme of a real operatic school of 
music in London, with the very best that could 
be engaged of English and Continental maestri 
as tutors, would open up an encouragement of 
enormous value to the community. It would be 
accessible to all and sundry at a moderate cost. A 
consummation to be devoutly desired is the amalga- 
mation of several of the existing schools of music 
which are cutting each other's throats and all the 
year carrying on an internecine jealous war. I should 
devote one of them exclusively to the consideration 
of opera in English, its study, its orchestral require- 
ments, its choral department, its methods and its 
elocution. To hear an English tenor speak lines in a 
native opera " tickles me to death." Here he would 
have the same tuition as I have often seen given to the 
lyric artistes on the stage of the Grand Opera, Paris, 
by its director, Gailhard, but which one from past 
experience knows is never vouchsafed in London. 
Till this is done, a National English Opera is as 
far off as the millennium. 

Carl Rosa, as I have said, left ^78,000, and out 
of what? Julia Gaylord, Georgina Burns, Leslie 
Crotty (a clerk in a Dublin bank in Abbey Street, 
singing on Sundays at Whitefriars Street for my 
master, Signor Cellini, and at evening concerts for 
my mother), Ludwig (son of Ledwidge, second tenor 
and music-copier in my grandfather's choir), Rose 
Hersee, Blanche Cole, Fred Packard, Joseph Maas> 



2io JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

'Charles Stanley, Ben Davies only to mention a few 
names. But Rosa never built opera-houses ; he 
hired other people's mansions ; but every one knew 
there was a market with Rosa, and talent was not 
slow to come alone. 



CHAPTER XIII 

People I have met " The Follies " Their origin,, 
success, big Manchester Coup " Slang " Some 
specimens Catch phrases Criminal stories The 
Gattis again London Police Courts Mr. " Too- 
cleverly " George Grossmith as a Bow Street short- 
hand writer Holloway jail experiences Barney 
Barnato Arthur Sturgess and Lord Mersey. 

THERE exists only one " Follies." It means- 
everything in up-to-date, good-natured humour. 
It is to English drama what the real art of caricature 
is to the French stage the " charge " to the serious- 
newspaper, the " blague " to the topic of the day. 
Many stories are told of the genesis. Few are true. 
" Niggers on the beach," " perambulating Pierrots," 1 
" Buskers " all are ventured as a true explanation,, 
but none are correct. Let me just say here that 
beyond " Uncle Bones " the original Christy- 
Minstrel at Margate and one or two " buskers,"" 
nothing seems to have been done to elevate the 
open-air entertainment till late in the 'Eighties,, 
when four members of R. D'Oyly Carte's Opera 
Company on tour, finding themselves faced with an 
eight weeks' vacation, entered the business as " The 
Mysterious Masked Musicians." From this starting- 
point are sprung the hundreds of troupes which from 
time to time appear on our seaside coast some- 
good, some bad, some indifferent, but " all right in 
the summer time." 

It was in 1895 that a Mr. Sherrington Chinn, 
recently deceased, started at Worthing a pierrot: 
troupe called " The Follies," and some time after 
Harry Gabriel Pelissier purchased the title and all 
interest from the originator. 
211 



212 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

But then it was only a pierrot troupe, and one of 
its members was Mr. Arthur Wimperis, who wrote 
the lyrics for " The Arcadians." Now this enter- 
tainment is our only London caricature, the true 
embodiment of everything that travesty ought to be. 
The male members are the most voiceless collection 
of vocalists I ever heard, but goodness me, all their 
quartettes and concert pieces are better sung than 
the attempts of some real operatic artistes. 

Gwennie Mars told me I would not listen to 
her for the chorus at Drury Lane, but her thumb- 
nail sketches of Harry Lauder and Wilkie Bard were 
genius studies, and yet where does it all come from, 
this realization of the real thing out of the supposed 
nothing ? Why, Pelissier himself. 

When the " Follies " first came under my notice 
it was at Bexhill. I gave them ^35 for four perform- 
ances. I noticed their talent ; the extreme individu- 
ality of their new and original versions of worn-out 
" trues " ; I saw their originality, and I was sure 
that of all the " pierotteers " they were beginning 
where all the others left off. 

I was deputed to book the dates for the Midland 
Theatre, Manchester, by Mr. W. Towle. I under- 
took this task for six months, but the real season 
was for Christmas time. Towle wanted something 
good, so I had to think out a scheme, as I would be 
then engaged at Drury Lane, and therefore could 
not give the campaign serious attention personally 
so I sought out Pelissier, and asked him what he 
was doing. He informed me that he had taken the 
Queen's Hall for his annual Christmas season of 
one month, where the receipts were not encouraging, 
but, as he remarked, " the London notices were use- 
ful." I lured him to abandon the Queen's Hall idea; 
he reluctantly consented, and accepted an engage- 
ment at Manchester for me for four weeks at sixty- 
five per cent, of the gross receipts per week. I then 
started a plan of campaign in advertising him 
suggested and partly wrote and made up a 
" Follies " brochure, with which we flooded 
Manchester. At the time I thought that I had a 
malignant growth in my throat, and did all the 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 213 

business in a half-hearted way, so I turned all the 
real preliminary work over to Pelissier himself. 

"The Follies," after they signed my contract, 
appeared at the Tivoli in October, and made a 
distinct success. To me then came Pelissier. He 
funked the Manchester engagement, begged to be 
let off. 1 declined ; pointed out to him the great 
possibilities of a new Corny Grain-German Reed 
business, but as an encouragement guaranteed him 
that at sixty-five per cent, his receipts for any one 
week would not be less than eighty-five pounds. 
This seemed to satisfy him, but no sooner did I 
settle Pelissier than I found I had to deal with Mr. 
Towle of the Midland, who wired me as follows : 

" Follies at Tivoli a music-hall not quite the 
thing for us please cancel. " TOWLE " 

I wasn't going to drop Pelissier, and be so easily 
bowled over in this way, so I wired Towle after this 
fashion : 

" Nonsense, I am your agent and the principal is 
responsible for the agent. They appear in December 
/or Queen Alexandra's Birthday Party at Sandring- 
ham, that's good enough for your public. 

" GLOVER " 

Of course, this was a Parthian shot, for the 
Sandringham engagement was a bolt from the blue. 
It came on us all like a flash, and any doubt that 
might have existed in my mind was settled at once. 
To Manchester for the " Follies " I was firm. 

" The Follies " opened in Manchester on December 
22nd, and I had arranged with Towle to pack the 
house with paper including the Lord Mayor. On 
the night of December 22nd I received the following 
telegram : 

" Glover, Drury Lane Theatre, London. 

" Show never went better, full house including 
Mayor, receipts over twelve pounds, advance book- 
ing strong. Merry Christmas. 

" HARRY " 



214 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

But the " twelve " went into hundreds, and so a 
great humour was preserved to us. At the end of 
the first week Towle sent for me. " Look here," he 
says, " your commission is ^63. Do you know I can 
get a chef for ^3 a week ? " 

" Yes, but a chef d'orchestre costs sixty- 
three ! " 

Of course, I knew my Manchester well I also had 
seen " Bill Bailey," Pelissier's pantomime skit, at 
the Palace, and knew how home it would get to the 
ordinary provincial pantomime as it was done in 
Manchester. 

1 did not see " Bill Bailey " on its first night at 
the Palace, when it was tried, but one who was there 
writes : 

" Anything more depressing than the circum- 
stances of the first performance can hardly be 
imagined. One of the thickest fogs I can recall 
pervaded the auditorium. The house was not half 
full. Across the footlights the Company could see 
great gaps in the stalls. Those who had managed 
to get to the theatre were by no means in the best 
of spirits, but before the Follies had been on the 
stage five minutes the attenuated audience, from the 
stalls to gallery, was roaring with laughter, which 
never ceased until after the curtain had fallen on 
the last scene. Probably no one there that night 
had realized the scope for burlesque provided by 
the slavishly conventional characteristics of the 
ordinary Christmas pantomime. The delightfullly 
subtle treatment of the subject of speech, song, 
dance, and ' business,' the quick changes of 
costume, the grotesque scenery, and, not least, the 
spirit of burlesque conveyed by the music, appealed 
to the audience in a remarkable degree." 

Pelissier manages to keep his company together 
by absolute force of good- will, good humoxir, and 
good temper. No more happy family exists, no- 
more generous host, kind friend, and good fellow 
lives. I am told that it is quite a common thing to 
see this notice on the Call Board : 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 215 



Apollo Theatre 

Monday at n a.m. sharp 

All concerned 

PYJAMA DAY 

H.G.P. 



which means that " all concerned " are taken to 
Bond Street and presented with beautiful suits of 
silk pyjamas. Substitute "Motor Day" for motor 
trips, or " Diamond ring " day but there let it 
rest. 

One thing that I have noticed in my three 
decades of Bohemian life is the passing of 
" slang " as a vehicle of conversation between the 
members of the theatrical profession. " Slang " 
the word used as a verb " to slang " in some of the 
best society really means a " side show," and 
" slang " language was the vernacular used by the 
passing, or moving, showman in the fairs as they 
talked to each other from their various stands in 
much the same way as the Covent Garden porters 
converse, or the coster fraternity carry on their airy 
nothings in their own particular persiflage. 

The travelling booth and the travelling gipsy, to 
which one may add the old travelling mummer 
(sometimes called " Barn-stormer ") , all drop into 
this " slang " familiarity, and so for many years 
even as the old-time mummer affected a certain 
paraded dignity in the stars' dressing-room, his 
insufficiently paid subordinate threw dignity to the 
winds and used his " own perticler " bombast 
in his wig-paste moments and puff and powder 
patchings. 

When I first started touring this " lingua franca," 
as it is called in Italy, was freely patronized by the 
actor fraternity, and often gave me pause for much 
thought. 

I remember when the word " bounder " first came 
into vogue, and it mystified me muchly, till one 
day I found that it would often be used as a term of 
endeannent, and that set my mind at rest. 



216 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Augustus Moore, Dick Butler (the Editor of the 
" Referee "), and " another," were one day at the 
Gaiety bar. The " other " in anger appealed to 
Moore. " Look here," he said, " Butler calls me a 
little bounder what is a bounder?" "1 don't 
know," said Moore, " you're the only one I have 
ever seen." 

But what irritated me more than anything else 
was the use of what is known as " rhyming slang." 
Rhyming slang consists in getting some phrase the 
last word of which rhymes with the exact word that 
you want to use, but to be adept, so soon as you 
know your phrase you decapitate it of the rhyming 
word and there you are. To ask for cheese by 
saying " Pass me the battle " sounds fairly silly, 
till you understand that " and breeze " is cut out. 
To ask for a piece of " strike me," the word " dead " 
rhyming with " bread," also wants taste, and when 
asking a friend to have some liquid refreshment to 
be told that he will have " A Polly and I'm so " is 
chaos supreme till you understand that the rhyming 
phrase is " I'm so frisky," though it certainly seems 
a roundabout way of asking for Apollinaris and 
whisky. To hear the old actors talk of " wing- 
ing " it or " ponging " it, two phrases which 
meant taking the words of a part from the 
" wings " the prompter's box was also a curious 
experience. 

Actors used in the old days to be very fond of 
using thieves' slang. A popular mummer's feast 
was " a Jimmy." No self-respecting syndicate of 
burglars ever think of " cracking a crib " unless 
there is a sheep's-head supper provided as 
a hors d'ceuvre to the evening's labours. The 
sheep's head was nicknamed " a jemmy," an im- 
plement used in the trade of burglary, an offence 
which by law has to be committed beween 9 p.m. 
and 6 a.m. If it is done in any other period it is 
called something different, house-breaking or felony 
but the Judge gets home all the time. 

Personally, I always took a great deal of interest 
in the criminal classes, and threatening myself once 
with a barrister's degree, fell up against a good 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 217 

deal of the real patois of the pick-pocket and jargon 
of the jailer's birds. All the London Police Courts 
have been more or less familiar to me Marlborough 
Street and Bow Street in particular. At Bow 
Street I spent hours and days, ay, months, studying 
at first hand all the small petty life stories which 
occupy the Courts of first instance. I did verbatim 
reports of long cases (not professionally) for my 
friends in the fourth estate. Arising out of what 
was known as the Castioni case, I wrote a series 
of articles on Extradition Law. 

I thought that a profession which has as its most 
ornamental high priests George Grossmith, the 
elder George Grossmith, the entertainer grand- 
father and father of the versatile George Grossmith 
of the Gaiety was good enough for me. 

George Grossmith Senr. was succeeded at Bow 
Street by a Mr. Cleverley. A good chap he was, how- 
ever, not inaptly described as Mr. " Too-cleverly," 
on an unfortunate occasion. It is a golden rule in 
English justice that the proceedings of the 
Magistrates' room are private, but when the 
summonses were issued against Sir Henry Isaacs 
and Mr. Horatio Bottomley over the notorious 
Hansard Union affair, Cleverley sent the intimation 
that summonses had been issued to the Press that 
evening, and Sir John Bridge sent him an intimation 
of his displeasure and intention to suspend him the 
next morning. 

At this time my French was rather well in hand, 
so I went once to Holloway Gaol to take the 
depositions of six Swiss-French conspirators, who 
had been doing confidence trick-employment-agency 
business this to oblige a solicitor friend to whom 
I owed many a debt of kindness. In this wise I 
became rather well known there, and my bona fides 
were not disputed. Later on a friend got incar- 
cerated on a serious charge, and in order to see him 
alone, and not in the cage-like grille usually 
apportioned to " visitors " who go to see their 
friends, I adopted the solicitor's clerk subterfuge, 
with the same authority that I had used in the 
French case. 



2i8 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Under such circumstances you are ushered into 
a room with glass doors. The " dttenu " is then 
brought to you with a huge number like a cab- 
man's badge on his coat, and then you are left 
alone. I awaited my friend. He came. The 
humour of it appealed to him, and before the chief 
warder could close the door, he burst out : " You're 
a nice damned solicitor, you are." This the chief 
warder overheard and reported, and the next that I 
knew of this business was when an Inspector Jarvis 
came from Scotland Yard and suggested that I 
should be arrested for impersonating a solicitor. I 
had some difficulty in explaining matters, but it 
came out right in the end. 

Another time I interested myself in the case of a 
friend a journalist who wanted to interview a 
murderer for a Sunday paper. He devised the 
following trick to attain this end. He threw a 
brick through a plate glass window of a shop, was 
arrested over-night, brought up the same morning 
in the same series with the murderer, and elected 
to go to Holloway in default of paying the damage 
and fine, so that he might travel in the identical 
Black Maria. On arrival at Holloway, he having 
accomplished this and interviewed the assassin 
through the grill in the door his friends arrived, 
paid all the fees, and he was liberated full of joy, 
and copy. My friend once lived on the same line 
as myself ; he asked me to allow him to introduce 
me to a lady sitting in the corner of the carriage, 
who he remarked, " is stopping with us for the 

week-end." He did so. " Mr. Glover Mrs. P 

etc.," and then in a side remark, " the famous child 
poisoner." 

Once again I paid a visit to Holloway to see a 
poor actress who had attempted to commit suicide. 
She had been there a week, she told me, and the 
chaplain refused to see her because " she was on 
the stage." I gave that chaplain two columns the 
next morning in T. P. O'Connor's " Sun " oti 
Christian Charity which did him more good than 
any missionary expedition has done the savages 
for many years. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 219 

When Dr. Jim arrived under arrest in England 
there were all sorts of ruses adopted to avoid a 
popular demonstration, and I was fetched overnight 
out of the Drury Lane orchestra, and Harry Wilson, 
the well-known solicitor, out of the stalls, on the 
same night and we were both offered a hundred 
pounds if we could divulge the exact place of 
landing for the then popular "traitor." I, for my 
part, would at that time have been glad of a bit of 
" ready," but how it got out that I knew is a 
mystery. I really did know, but had to keep 
silent, and waited outside Bow Street till the 
appointed time, when they all arrived, and were 
committed to Holloway. 

When on the " Sun " we laid a trap for two 
horrible people a black doctor and his mistress 
who used to advertise in the Sunday papers, to lure 
young women in trouble. They fell into the trap, 
and we libelled them purposely, and the two 
" Sun "-ites, a lady and gentleman, who carried on 
the campaign cheerfully, went into the dock on a 
criminal libel charge. I advised what counsel we 
were to retain in the entire case, and suggested Sir 
Charles Matthews, the present Public Prosecutor, 
Sir Horace Avory, now a judge of King's Bench, 
and Mr. John Maria Gatti successor to his father, 
with his brother Rocco who had a few days pre- 
viously been called to the Bar. The result of this 
case was that in the end the black doctor and his 
lady got five years and three years respectively, and 
the S.E. district was ridded of two of its greatest 
human monsters. 

Although Mr. J. Gatti was called to the Bar, he 
really never practised, electing with his brother 
to carry on the conventions of one of the finest 
businesses in England. What a table the old Gatti 
circle gathered round it for years fifteen of which 
I well remember. Augustus Harris, Robert 
Buchanan, Henry Sampson, George R. Sims, Henry 
Pettit, poor William Terriss, and the most informal 
and convivial club that ever foregathered. Plays 
were written, theatres built, syndicates formed, 
house property changed hands, pleasant " soubri- 



220 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

quets " coined, testimonials arranged, poor actors 
helped, rich actors admonished, many a straggler 
clinging to the last plank assisted forward by those 
two jolly good fellows whose names will ever be 
handed down to posterity for everything that was 
commendable in any project with which their names 
were associated. 

One more " criminal " reminiscence and I have 
done. In a case in which I was interested at the 
Old Bailey, Sir Horace Avory cross-examined a 
witness on forty-nine counts of a plea of justification 
the most terrible record I have ever read. " Yes,'* 
said the witness to the forty-ninth admission, " but 
you'll be accusing me of murder next." Avory 
looked down, turned over two pages of his brief, 
and said : " Which one do you mean ? " 

My financial resources never allowed me to get 
about much with Barney Barnato, whom I knew 
very well before the early African days. I once 
assisted him in his performance of " Salem Scudder " 
in " The Octoroon " at the Novelty Theatre, but 
did not see him for some years till he returned for 
good from South Africa. A story he told me at 
this time is of more or less interest, so I will quote 
it here with apologies for its crudeness. 

In the early days of the South African boom they 
opened a new hall in Johannesburg, to be used 
principally as a synagogue. It was unanimously 
decided that Kruger should be invited to perform 
the ceremony. This he did, on condition that he 
would not have to make any speech (it was after the 
Majuba business), but merely formally declare it 
open and retire. The eventful day came, and every 
Hebrew for hundreds of miles was present. Oom 
Paul arrived, mounted the platform, raised his hat, 
gazed at the huge massed audience mostly of the 
Jewish faithful present, and said but these few 
simple words : "I declare this hall open iu the 
name of our Lord and Saviour " but the rest \\v-is 
lost in the excitement of the moment. 

Another humorous case at Bow Street about 
Coronation time may be cited. I had to wait the 
whole morning for one of the forensic faculty 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 221 

employed therein three light-fingered gentlemen 
engaged in the lucrative, but risky, game of " dip- 
ping," i.e. pocket or watch picking. These gentry, 
all three arrived on the Saturday before the Corona- 
tion the day of the big Suffragist demonstration in 
Trafalgar Square. Unfortunately, they started 
business too early, for one was caught in the act 
of lifting an old gentleman's gun-metal " ticker " 
which he had that morning wisely substituted for a 
loo-guinea gold chronometer, and the other two were 
apprehended as accessories or " coverers." The 
" flagrante delicto " had on him 39, the other two 
had only a few shillings. They all three denied ever 
having seen each other. (i) Had come from 
Australia to see the Coronation " quite natural that 
he should have a sum of money on his person ; " 
(2) and (3) " never had seen the fust gent afore " 
they came from Liverpool loyalty George Vth 
Coronation quite natural that they should be in 
London unfortunate that they should have been 
near the scene of operations. Result : No. i got six 
months' hard labour the other two acquitted 
really no evidence against them. In default of proof 
that it was the proceeds of robbery, the Magistrate 
ordered the ^39 to be handed over to the solicitor 
acting for the convicted one, who, on the instruction 
of his client, ordered the money to be handed over to 
the other two " to carry on operations till I come 
out." 

Not the least amusing incident arising from the 
olla podrida which I picked up in the Law 
Courts, was the personal experience of an old 
friend. 

Owing to certain financial pressure, Arthur 
Sturgess, who wrote unaided the English version of 
" La Poupee," and collaborated in many of Old 
Drury's pantomimes, found himself one morning 
before Mr. Justice Bigharn now Lord Mersey. Now 
Arthur had written a song in Drury Lane panto- 
mime which was a great success, called " I don't 
want to be a lady," and a Mrs Penruddock having 
been fined only by Mr. Justice Bigham for heartless 
cruelty to a child, the author adapted a verse to this 



222 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

ttopic which was hugely encored every night for 
anonths. This was the verse : 

" I don't want to be a Lady, 
I don't want to be " select," 
Always going " everywhere," 
Blazing jewels in my hair, 
While my little child is dying of neglect. 
I don't want to face the public, 
Mothers would wish me good ; 
And though the Judge thought " she's a swell ! 
Fifty pounds A bagatelle," 
Yet I wouldn't be that lady if I could." 

The chorus was repeated and these two lines 
substituted : 

" And though Justice can be bought 
In a certain Judge's Court." 

It was some time after this that the rendezvous 
'between Judge and Author above-mentioned 
occurred, and this discussion between Judge and 
joker took place : 

SOLICITOR : The Defendant, my lord, makes quite 
a lot of money. 

JUDGE : Oh, does he ? How ? 

SOLICITOR : Well, my lord, he writes all the 
successful songs fgr Drury Lane 
pantomime (here opening the' 
" Daily Telegraph"). One he has 
done this season is called, " I don't 
want to be a lady." 

JUDGE : Oh, he wrote that, did he ? (and the 

future Lord Mersey smiled). 

SOLICITOR : He owes nearly ^1200. 

JUDGE : There will be an order made. You 

must pay ten shillings a month . 

DEFENDANT : That will take me about 70 years. 

JUDGE : That has nothing to do with me. 

DEFENDANT : But supposing, my lord, I can't pay 
the first ten shillings ? 

JUDGE : In that case I should keep a money- 

box. Next case. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 223, 

I must say this for Lord Mersey (Mr. Justice 
Bigham), that it never imbued him with any pre- 
judice for the theatre, which he has patronized so- 
much ever since, but his love for the stage is no- 
doubt educated, as the Sisters Dare, Zena and 
Phyllis, were daughters of his ex-clerk, Mr Dones. 



CHAPTER XIV 

Andrew Melville Four bars of " agit " Realizing 
the posters Picking up actors at Derby Station The 
Maybrick case in " Faust " Wilson Barrett W. W. 
Kelly The " queue " outside the Princess' box-office 
The deadhead system Mrs. Langtry as a panto- 
mime fairy Walton and Hemming The clog dancer 
and the Prince of Wales Richard Mansfield "Ten 
minutes for refreshment " Sam Lewis and the Peerage 
Who wrote Shakespeare's Plays ? 

OF the old school of " legitimate " actors that is, 
mummers who walked, talked, and stalked the 
country with what they were pleased to call 
abbreviatingly " the legit," i.e. legitimate, none was 
more popular than handsome George Melville, and 
there was born unto him a son Andrew, called by 
the irreverent " Merry Andrew." Andrew Melville, 
or, as he styled himself, " Mr. Emm," fretted his 
earlier struts on the stages at Swansea, Cardiff and 
Bristol. A large big generous-hearted, boyish figure, 
he attained a great popularity on his own particular 
circuit, and amassed a huge fortune with a hap- 
hazard method of theatrical management, which in 
his case, dying as he did worth ^95,000, justified its 
own ends. He was the father of that celebrated 
firm who have given to the literature of the stage 
that peculiar library of which " The Worst Woman 
in London," " The Bad Girl of the Family," and 
" The Girl who lost her character," are the most 
successful specimens. 

Apart from their literary attributes, it is astonish- 
ing how success has followed many a play which 
ran to length in their titles. 
224 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 225 

This long title is an old American dodge. At one 
time the average Yankee Crummies always favoured 
a long title. An English play once a success in our 
provinces as " Kindred Souls," was on its Trans- 
atlantic performance described as " Out of the 
Frying Pan into the Fire," and Mr. George R. Sims 
has an unpleasant remembrance of a play of his 
called " The Gay City " being toured in America as 
" Skipped by the Light of the Moon " ; again, dur- 
ing this cycle of taste in long titles I remember 
seeing a hybrid sort of play in Philadelphia called 
" The Girl who eloped with a Circus Rider." 

" Dagonet " could not for many years trace the 
means by which his brain effort was pirated for 
America till it was explained to him that two enter- 
prising Yanks followed the English tour of his play, 
sat in the pit every night in each town and anno- 
tated all the dialogue on a succession of numbered 
visiting cards which they dropped into an inverted 
tall hat during the performance and duly tran- 
scribed night by night at the conclusion on their 
return to their hotel. 

But to return to " Mr. Emm." I had previously 
visited his many theatres in various touring 
capacities, and I had many instances of his peculiar, 
but always straightforward methods, so that I was 
not quite taken by surprise when one Christmas 
Eve morning, 1888, he wired me to come to 
Birmingham and write the music for his first panto- 
mime " St. George and the Dragon," to be produced 
on Boxing Morning to open the Grand Theatre, 
Birmingham. I arrived at Birmingham at three, 
and took down a list of forty numbers to be written 
or scored, really a month's work, and at six o'clock 
offered to go home and try to get some idea of how 
it was to be done. " Nonsense," said Melville, " we 
produce a new drama to-night called ' Bitter Cold,' 
or ' Two Christmas Eves,' and I want about sixty 
' melos ' numbers for that. Take them down." At 
this time musical directors travelled with a book 
of " agits," i.e., agitatos, "slows" that is, 
slow music for serious situations " pathetics," 
" struggles," " hornpipes," " andantes " to all 
H 



226 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

which adapted numbers called " melos " any dra- 
matic situation was possible. Armed with my chart, 
I got on through the middle of the evening, when I 
saw a man writhing in agony on the stage. " My 
God! I'm dying curse her! She has poisoned 
me but if there is justice in heaven may the rest 
of her life be a hell on earth gug gug gug," 
writhed the actor, and down he fell prostrate. Just 
then the tube whistle in the orchestra blew hard. 
"Who's there?" said I. "Melville," was the 
reply. " Well, what of it ? " I answered, " play up, 

old man." "I've no cue." "Cue be d d! 

Don't you see a man dying on the stage ? Give us 
four bars of ' agit.' " 

Melville was called " Realize the Poster Melville." 
He bought up stocks of old picture posters, and 
whatever the play, he realized the poster in that 
play. I remember one Henry Hampton, an old 
actor, refusing at Newport to play " The Wandering 
Jew " with a dog following him all through the 
piece just because there were some posters to be 
used up in which a dog played a prominent part. 

To enlist a battlefield picture in " East Lynue " 
was quite an easy matter, as a vision would appear 
to the dying Willie Carlyle, and he would have a 
death scene written in contemplating earning the 
V.C. on the battlefield if he was not being prema- 
turely killed by tuberculosis said act of heroism 
being displayed (in the vision) with a super dressed 
in a costume sufficient of an anachronism in a stage 
setting which gave a Crimean outfit in a 1900 South 
African background, with a pound of red fire, two 
squibs, and a pistol shot. 

The night of our pantomime season finished, the 
town of Birmingham was covered with posters and 
streamers announcing a play called " The Roll of 
the Drum." These he had bought from a stranded 
company of actors a few weeks previous. " But," 
I protested, " you have no company engaged." 
" Oh ! " said Melville, " that's all right. I'm 
coming as far as Derby with you to-morrow 
(Sunday) and one can always pick up a few good 
actors there, or at Crewe, on their way home. And 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 227 

so it was. A half-a-dozen actors en route to London 
" resting," a local historian or two, a few stray 
accessories and he opened all right on the Monday 
night. 

There were occasions, however, when things did 
not synchronize with good taste in his theatres and 
this is one of them. The following appeared in the 
" Era " just about the time of the Maybrick case : 

" The gentleman who is playing Siebel in the 
melodrama of ' Faust ' at the Grand Theatre, 
Birmingham, this week, has a line which was taken 
the other evening to be a sympathetic reference to 
Mrs. Maybrick. It was applauded to the echo, and 
the delighted actor was encouraged to make an even 
more pointed speech ' Better that sixteen hardened 
criminals should escape than one innocent creature 
suffer, so give the culprit the benefit of the doubt.' 
It was a daring thing to gag in Goethe even Goethe 
chastened by T. W. Robertson." 

And this, too, before the unhappy woman was 
reprieved. 

In his later days he had a habit of forgetting to 
answer letters, but if you met him and upbraided 
him with this carelessness he was on the alert at 
once and " replied " then and there in quaint 
fashion for he wore a large opera hat, with a 
writing pad and an unspillable excise ink-bottle 
inside, a small clasp holding his latest unanswered 
correspondence by his side. He would then say, 
" When did you write me? oh yes, on the tenth," 
and ferret out the particular communication to 
which he would still upright scrawl a hasty reply 
on his improvized writing desk. I experienced this 
myself once on Brighton Pier, shortly before his 
death. 

At this time I came a good deal in contact with 
Kelly, who had a great deal to do with the 
" Princess " in the old Wilson Barrett days. Wilson 
Barrett, it may be remembered, made a huge 
fortune lost it and then regained it with " The 
Sign of the Cross." "The Lights o' London," 



228 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

"The Romany Rye," "The Silver King," and 
others had all bulged out his earlier banking 
balances. These were in Henry Herman's days. 
Wilson Barrett always wanted to play " Hamlet." 
" Neffer till I am ted " replied Herman, and so 
it was. Herman dead " Hamlet " came and other 
financial failures with the prognosticated result 
till " The Sign of the Cross " retrieved his fortunes 
and he paid everybody in full. Wilson Barrett was 
a man of great honour. 

In the meantime, Kelly, after some personal 
ventures, tried to lead Wilson Barrett back to 
Oxford Street. At this time the creditors of both 
managers were many. So " Ben-my-Chree " by a 
then new author (Hall Caine) was announced. The 
first night was a triumph. Kelly went behind to 
see Barrett. 

" What do you think? " said Kelly. 

" A huge success," replied Barrett. " You read 
Clement Scott in the morning, ' a triumph.' Two 
columns in the ' D. T.' Run for twelve months," 
proudly boasted the actor manager. 

" I don't think so," replied Kelly. " A good 
play ; Hall Caine fine writer but not ' Princess ' 
goods." 

" You're wrong, Kelly," said Barrett. " I know 
this theatre ; to-morrow morning when you come 
down here you will find a queue outside the box- 
office leading down to Oxford Circus." 

" Glad to hear it, Barrett. Good night," and 
Kelly went home a happier and a prouder man. 

" Now," says Kelly (who tells the story well), 
" at that time I lived in St. John's Wood a three- 
shilling cab-fare and money was not too flush ; so 
the threepenny ' Atlas ' 'bus sufficed in those days 
of slow locomotion. The morn was fine, the sun 
shone brightly I left my house early. I had not 
slept all night ; that ' queue ' of Barrett's haunted 
me yes, a queue down to Oxford Street. What 
luck ! What fortune ! A wave of prosperity no 
catching cold sitting in the overdrafts. No, shall I 
'bus it this morning ? I have four-and-six left ; or 
shall I cab it ? Barrett was right. I opened the 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 229 

' Daily Telegraph ' two columns of Clement Scott's 
heroics. So I hailed a handsome, which I could ill 
afford. As we turned down Portland Place into the 
Oxford Street, there it was, sure enough ! Barrett's 
' queue ' was there. ' Joy, delight and luxury ' 
' Hurry up ' (to the driver) , ' I must get there 
quick ' They might want assistance in the box- 
office it might come on rain. In due course the 
cab pulled tip. Three shillings ! Lord ! look at the 
queue gave him i'our-and-six. The extra eighteen- 
pence all the money I had, what did it matter ? 
No more worry, overdrafts, or anxieties, and in I 
rushed. ' What's this.? ' I blurted out to the box- 
office keeper, who was indolently smoking a 
cigarette and not selling a ticket. ' Why don't you 
attend to the people? ' " 



" Yes, the queue was there a long one, but not 
booking seats but a horde of Barrett's creditors 
and mine ! They had all seen Clement Scott's 
' Daily Telegraph ' notice, and came down early for 
a ' bit on account.' " 

Poor Barrett ! Poor Herman ! How they 
quarrelled with H. A. Jones as to who really did 
write "The Silver King," and how Jones insisted 
on his name being suppressed, and how the play 

was announced as "By Henry Herman and " ! 

All this is dramatic history. And now Barrett and 
Herman are dead and the play is announced as by 
Henry A. Jones, ALONE. 

Henry Pettit once kicked up a row because 
Kelly was running his "Black Flag" on the 
" transfer " system at the Olympic. This in the 
old days meant flooding the cheaper parts with 
paper or " dead-heads," and their " transferring " 
to a larger-priced portion of the auditorium, and so 
on ; so much so that by the time the evening was 
through quite a respectable amount of money was 
paid into the "treasury." Pettit thought that he 
would be clever; so in order to swear a personal 
affidavit against Kelly he would slip into the 
gallery on a batch of these orders, unobserved. He 



230 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

had provided himself with Kelly's " orders " for 
each part of the house, and as he was paid by a 
percentage on receipts his idea was to prove their 
real non-existence. I will tabulate his experi- 
ences : 

s. d. 
Paid Early Door to Gallery . . 6 

(to avoid " deadhead " crush) 
,, Transfer to is. 6d. Pit . .10 
,, ,, to 2s. 6d. Circle . .10 

,, ,, to 55. Balcony . .26 

,, ,, to IDS. Stall . .56 

,, Programme 6 

,, Cloakroom ..... 6 

H5. 6d~ 

"Fancy! " said Pettit, " it has cost me us. 6d. 
to see my own play with an order." 

Few people who know that charming lady, 
delightful sportswoman and excellent actress, Lady 
de Bathe, will appreciate what a good-natured 
humorist she is in the cause of charity. She once 
with Claude Lowther, M.P. disguised herself as a 
flower-girl and sold flowers in the Haymarket out- 
side the clubs to such a state of realism that Lord 
Brabazon did not recognize her, and made an 
appointment with her the next day to further 
patronize her floral wares. And again, at the 
Princess', during her " Antony and Cleopatra " 
season, she with Arthur Bourchier played a " harle- 
quinade " to make money for the little ones in the 
Theatre. 

Claude Lowther, who has just presented Herst- 
monceaux Castle to the public, once got himself into 
trouble for an innocent piece of Carnivalian humour 
at Co vent Garden. He dressed up a dummy of poor 
Gus Harris Inverness cap and all, and worked it 
in imitation of making a speech from a private box, 
but to an unsympathetic and humorless officer in 
blue, who promptly carted the offending one to Bow 
Street. 

In the old Covent Garden days under Charles 
Rice, the leading feature was " The Walton and 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 231 

Hemming " family a fine and old troupe of panto- 
mimists, some of whom are still happily living. 
This family had a standing order with a Mr. 
Gillespie, who owned a small music-hall at Burnley, 
that if ever they had a week "out" they could 
always fill it in at short notice at a nominal salary. 
Thus they found Holy Week on their hands at the 
end of the pantomime season, and having been 
patronized by the Prince of Wales and suite at the 
Covent Garden the week previous, wired Gillespie : 

" Coming next week. Announce us as having 
recently appeared before H.R.H. the Prince of 
Wales." 

Thus they were advertised the town posted the 
engagement boomed. On the Monday night, during 
a clog-dance by one of the troupe which dance is 
played very piano by the band to admit of the steps 
being heard a man rose in the circle and shouted 
out : 

" Waal, if yon's bin afore t' Prince of Wales, our 
Jack 'as no richt to be i' factry." 

Richard Mansfield, time has shown, became a 
great actor. When I met him on tour playing Sir 
Joseph Porter, in " Pinafore " he had about six 
pounds a week, and led a more or less secluded 
life of cynical comments, ascetic aphorisms, and 
Bohemian peculiarity. He was hard up, so he said, 
on Chester platform one Sunday, and offered to sell 
me the libretto of a one-act comic opera for three 
pounds if I paid him a deposit of ten shillings at 
once. I forked out the only ten shillings I had, not 
being able to appreciate which was the greater 
calamity ine a poor touring chef d'orchestre with- 
out money, or he, an important star actor in a 
similar capacity. He duly delivered the play. It 
was called " Ten Minutes for Refreshment." It 
had one of the longest runs on record ; first produced 
it ran at the Olympic for two weeks ; then purchased 
by the late H. J. Kitchens for six pounds, it ran at 
the Royalty for sixteen weeks; and later on at the 



232 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Empire for sixteen weeks. At one time we saw 
a good deal of each other. But he was a peculiar 
bird, arid recently in America he would hardly speak 
to me. 

It was during this period that I met the late Duke 
of Newcastle, who in common with other straw- 
berried nobles patronized the theatre a good deal 
not merely from the front of the house. His Grace 
of Newcastle was so interested in one " leg-show " 
house as burlesque temples were then called that 
he had a suite of rooms furnished over the Green 
Room, and being an ardent Roman Catholic, had 
Mass said every morning as a fit and proper over- 
ture to the day's good work. 

At the opera in Harris' days I often promenaded 
the foyer during the entr'actes with the late Sam 
Lewis, the famous moneylender whose bequests to 
charity were epoch-making in their munificence, 
whom I knew in childhood's days in his early 
Dublin beginnings. As we walked up and down 
one night our conversation was interrupted with 
recognitions from me to the various passers-by : 
" Good evening, Lord -" ; " Yes, Your Grace, we 
will possibly do ' Tristan ' on Saturday." " No, 

Lord , Madame Melba does not sing till the 

25th," and so on, till Sam said, " You seern to 
know 'em all 'ere." 

" Oh," I replied, " purely official. But surely 
you know most of them, Mr. Lewis ? " 

"Yes, of course I do; but they don't know me 
here ; but on Monday morning at No. 6 Cork Street, 
their affability is wonderful. I'll have them all in 
regularly sure as nuts." 

The death of Sir William S. Gilbert reminds me 
that he periodically repudiated all the clever things 
attributed to him in conversational repartee. The 
hero of more inverted commas than Shakespeare, 
was an old friend of mine, and during the Collin's 
regime he sent me a telegram every Christmas Eve 
for twelve years, asking me to reserve him two 
seats for the dress rehearsal, " right behind you." 
He loved to hear the children sing the comic songs, 
although expressing himself as doubtful as to their 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 233 

humour, and was always interested to see the 
scheme of colour worked out of the pantomime. Of 
its comedians, he could enjoy them all except the 
music-hall portion, and these he could not tolerate. 
It has not been generally stated that a good deal of 
his fortune he invested in bricks and mortar ; apart 
from his Savoy interest he was the freeholder of the 
Garrick Theatre. 

All the stories about his being rude to people are 
all moonshine. I have conducted his operas and 
met him socially, and my experience has always 
been as others' a' real English gentleman. His 
writings speak for themselves, but one thing may 
be noticed the model that he worked up. From 
the " Sorcerer " onwards he made all his characters, 
on their first entrance, acquaint the audience as to 
their identity just a few : " My name is John 
Wellington Wells I travel in Magical Spells " 
(Sorcerer). " I am the Captain of the Pinafore, and 
a right good captain too ! " "I'm dear little butter- 
cup " (Pinafore). "A wandering Minstrel, I" 
(Mikado), and so on right down to the end of the 
chapter. He was generous as an opponent, and 
when he once politely refused to be interviewed 
by an impertinent American journalist, and the 
journalist replied, " I shall be pleased to write your 
obituary for nothing," he behaved magnanimously 
in the legal proceedings which followed. The last 
time I ever spoke to him was on Christmas Eve 
last, 1910, when he remarked on the serious- 
development of the heavy pieces of music played 
while the pantomime scenes were changed. 
" Why," said the Bab Balladist, " it means a dozen 
small overtures I wonder how Sullivan would have 
got through it?" This, or course, referred to 
Sullivan's laziness, and invariable neglect to write 
or compile any overture for his operas, which, in 
early days, he left to Alfred Cellier, and in 
later times, as I have remarked, to Hamilton 
Clarke. 

Poor Hamilton Clarke ! How he used to love to 
tell the story of the " h'less " ballet master rehears- 
ing the dances in Irving's " Faust " ! " Lydies 



234 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

ritnember you're not dancing on 'amstead 'heath, 
you're dancing in 'ell." 

W. S. Gilbert's father, on the other hand, ivas a 
gentleman with a choleric temper, and it is quite 
possibly that the sins of the father were unjusti- 
fiably visited on the boy. Gilbert pre once called 
at the " Saturday Review " office in which paper 
a criticism of one of his books had appeared to 
which he took objection. " On what business, 
sir? " queried the office boy to the writer's demand. 
" To thrash the Editor," was the naive reply but 
the Editor was " out." 

Of stories fathered on to popular personalities 
there is no end, the latest of which is that Seymour 
Hicks when producing R. Louis- Stevenson's 
" Hampden Club " at the Coliseum referred to it as 
written by " the author of ' Dorothy.' " Shades of 
Robert Louis and B. C. Stephenson the latter a 
genial, clever writer, whose most exciting experi- 
ence in life was his being arrested as a murderer 
in Switzerland, and whose good fortune was the fact 
that the Brothers Gatti Senators then in the Swiss 
Parliament were near at hand to bail him out. 



CHAPTER XV 

Olla Podrida The progress of the music-hall 
" Faust " in a music-hall in the 'Sixties " Potted " 
opera no novelty Types of singers in the past The 
Sisters Leamar Belle Bilton, i.e. Lady Dunlo, the 
Countess of Clancarty Various music-hall stars The 
Empire Starting it as a music-hall " Wiry Sal "- 
Jack Jaivis George Edwardes " Refreshment con- 
tractor " And Manager The Palace Its opening 
Its failure Its finance Its success The improve- 
ment in the music Sound music for the people " The 
Times " protests I reply General remarks An Irish 
inscription Two " Faust " stories Strauss and Wag- 
nes A " Caux " celebre Nicolini Actress-Peeresses. 

DURING my time there has never been any 
amusement development which has been so 
marked as the change in the temperament of the 
music-hall. I use the word " change," not improve- 
ment, advisedly because in many senses the altera- 
tion has only been a reversion to type, but still 
under conditions which bode well for the better 
amusements of the classes. In the music-hall proper 
now submerged into the words " variety theatre " 
it is usual to date back all records from Charles 
Morton at the old Canterbury in the Westminster 
Bridge Road, which contained sufficient pictures on 
its walls to have it described by George Augustus 
Sala in " Punch " as " The Academy over the 
water," and to all intents and purposes it is not a 
very bad landmark, for at a time when those 
operatic managerial giants Mapleson and Gye were 
discussing the merits of a newly-produced opera in 
Paris called " Faust " by Charles Gounod, it was at 
the Canterbury Music-hall that Gounod's music 
235 



236 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

was actually first heard in England. Indeed, 
Maplcson took Mdlle. Tietjens to the Canterbury to 
hear this " Operatic selection " before he decided to 
do it at the old Her Majesty's Theatre. Tietjens 
was the original " Marguerite " in English, and 
Sir Charles Santley, the original " Valentin," is 
the sole survivor of the opera's first English per- 
formance on any stage. 

It will be seen, then, that if the music-hall proper 
commences with " Faust " by Gounod in 1861, it 
has not " progressed " much, but merely amplified 
its former artistic nature in 1912, when we find the 
Carl Rosa and Moody and Manners forces in the 
great fight for variety theatre " bill topping." Again, 
Emily Soldene did a " potted " version of Herve's 
" Chilperic " in the 'Seventies in the halls, so that 
" condensed " comic opera is nothing very new 
when one comes to consult the records, so all the 
snobbish " flap-doodle " about the indignity of 
" going on the halls " in the 'Eighties was mere 
bunkum. From the 'Sixties to the 'Eighties we had 
very little to cater for the music-hall taste except 
the Canterbury Hall just mentioned on one side of 
the water, and the London Pavilion, Oxford and 
Royal (Weston's) in Holborn on the West-end side. 
The " Great Vance," who died suddenly on the 
stage of the " Sun " music-hall, Knightsbridge, on 
a Boxing Night what time he was singing a song 
called " Is he guilty? "; the " Great " Macdermott 
introducing " We don't want to fight but by Jingo 
if we do " ; George Leybourne, " Champagne 
Charlie," and nearly all down to the James Fawn 
and the Arthur Roberts schools all marked time. 
These two latter are still enjoying a merry exist- 
ence, and so also is Horace Lingard, who sang 

" On the beach at Brighton 
On a Summer's Day." 

at the Canterbury in the 'Sixties, and who after- 
wards married the charming actress, Alice 
(Dunning) Lingard. The topical and motto 
vocalists, Charles Williams and Fred Albert only 
te mention two names the " Two Sisters " turn, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 237 

the descriptive vocalist and the sentimental balladist 
all made up a programme of more or less variety. 
In these days " The Chairman " who sat in the 
middle of the stalls " with 'is 'ammer in 'is 'and," 
called " order " to the rowdy gallery and vouch- 
safed his " orders " at the expense of the favourite 
few who surrounded his table, Was the general 
manager of the whole entertainment. He could kill 
an encore with his " Mr. So-and-so will oblige again 
later on in the evening," or he could make one 
with his hammer applause and raucous " encores " 
in these cues giving the lead to all and sundry 
interested in their particular stage idol or divinity. 
Many were the various types of " The Sisters " 
turn, one of the more popular being " The Dashing 
Sisters Leamar," one of which married a Mr. 
Buncombe of the Feversham peerage. To the strains 
of the notorious " My Queen " waltz these ladies 
packed the old Royal, Holborn, and there all the 
young bloods went to hear them sing : 

" Go and inform your Fath-er 
Won't he be angry ? Rath-ei ! 
Mention the youth, 
Tell him the truth ; 
Nothing conceal, 
Say how you feel." 

Later on we had " The Sisters Bilton " Florrie, 
who married a Mr. Seymour, and Belle, who became 
the first Countess of Clancarty. 

I first took these two in hand as children what 
time my uncle, W. F. Glover, was conductor, and 
I succeeded him with a children's " Cloches de 
Corneville " Company, in which they were infant 
choristers, then run by Charles Bernard of Bernard 
and Christy's Minstrels. It was from Mr. Christy 
that the term " Christy Minstrel " was evolved. 
We opened at the old Gaiety Theatre under John 
Hollingshead, and toured for some months. It was 
necessary that we should house, feed and clothe the 
sixty prodigies in each town, and many a happy 
afternoon I spent with the two little Bilton girls, 
one on each knee, telling them fairy stories; then 



238 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

they grew up, came into my adult " Cloches " 
Company Shiel Barry, the original, as the Miser 
left the stage proper, and joined the music-halls. 
Later on I think I had a hand in the reconciliation 
between Lord and Lady Dunlo. Whilst his Lord- 
ship was in Australia I assisted her considerably, 
aiding her to win her divorce, and for my pains 
had her personal thanks on the night of the verdict 
in her favour, when, as before stated, she visited 
the Comedy Theatre with Sir Augustus Harris, 
under whose management she was about to tour. 
Harris announced her as : 

LADY DUNLO 

in 
" VENUS " 

and Florence Bilton, her sister, then with a more 
or less rival attraction " Faust-up-to-date " Com- 
pany, the same week was announced as : 

FLORRIE BILTON 

sister of 
LADY DUNLO 

in 
FAUST UP TO DATE 

Alas, those old Gaiety days : 

" Gone away are the Gaiety girls, 
With their powered noses and tricked-up curls ; 
Gone away are these syrens smart, 
Fertile of kisses, but barren of heart 
Bowing alternately cold and hot 
Steadfastly sticking to all they got 
Filling a bevy of hot-brained boys 
With maddening hopes of untasted joys." 

Thus the admiring scribe when the old house was 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 239 

pulled down to meet a County Council improve- 
ment. 

I do not intend this chapter to be in any way too 
historical or analytical, only a cursory introduction 
to give one an idea of the evolution of the present 
music-hall. For this reason I may mention some 
other names ; the great Jenny Hill great in every 
sense Bessie Bellwood, or Charles Godfrey, or 
many others both of these descriptive vocalists of 
giant strength. 

When we talk of the novelty of modern play 
sketches in the modern music-hall, what about " The 
Stowaway " with Jenny Hill in the 'Eighties, the 
natural pathos and strength of drama of which it 
took a whole column by Clement Scott in the 
"Daily Telegraph" to depict? This was an 
Adelphi-esque sketch written by Frederick Bowyer 
and packed the old Canterbury Music-hall for 
weeks. Or out of a thousand others in the lyric 
world, Charles Godfrey's " Hi-tidclily-hi-ti " a 
bibulous ditty which ranks, as an item, with the 
best of Paulus and the most human of Yvette 
Guilbert. 

The " descriptive " song had, of course, its cheap 
moments. A curiously illiterate but none the less 
popular example, often quoted at the time, was : 

" The honest servant-girl God defend her. 
What cleans up your hearthrug and your fender 
But what I want to know, 
Yes, I want to know AS* 
What have they done with 
Mr. Peabody's MONEE ? " 

I have accented in Capitals the points emphasized 
in rendition by the singer. 

This, as may be noticed, is not rhyme, reason or 
sense, but it really is not a bad specimen of the 
class of poor literature which flooded the few music- 
halls then about sandwiched in with some of the 
better class of entertainment mentioned before. 

Albert Chevalier started a new era of music-hall 
literature. As an actor he had attained fame at the 



24 o JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

theatre at least, fame before it was a day of ^300 
a week comedians. In his spare moments he wrote 
plays, burlesques and songs yes, real songs those 
lovely Coster ditties which charmed all and sundry 
at soirees, at-homes, or private functions, notably 
the old Pelican " smokers " and Bons Frtres 
concerts at the Cafe Royal. But for years nothing 
would persuade him to give the huge outside public 
the benefit of his great art and talent but he 
succumbed at last, and I shall never forget his 
nervous anticipation a few hours before he appeared 
in the London Pavilion on his opening night as we 
cheered him up in the neighbouring Pelican Club. 
" Our 'Arinonic Club " " 'Ave a glass a-long o' me 
won't-yer," " The Crushed Tragedian " all were 
delightful. 

It is interesting to show how some of these songs 
came to be written. Notably " 'Ave a glass a-long 
o' me." There was a dear little fellow an actor 
named Alfred Balfour who used to frequent the old 
Gaiety bar called " Prossers Avenue " on account 
of the number of hard-up-half-crown-borrowing- 
drink-cadging actors who haunted its portals. 
Balfour used to have a regular appointment there 
with an old friend, but his pride was so great that 
fearing that his inability to purchase drinks might 
be translated into a tacit cadging for nourishment 
he always made his very first speech on entering 
the bar in this fashion. " Is Mr. So-and-so here 
No? I'm sorry 'Ave a glass a-long o' me what- 
won't yer well, good day," and off he went. 
Chevalier immortalized this in his well-known song, 
as he did also poor Balfour's remark " I've played 
Touch-is-tone in Shakespeare's ' If-you-like it ? ' and 
still I don't get hon " ; this in the " Crushed 
Tragedian." 

Further contributing to this upward tendency 
was a short season at the Empire after the " Lady 
of the Locket." It was in its compilation a cross 
between the best conditions of the old Covent 
Garden promenade concert and the now popular 
variety theatre. Its first musical sponsors were 
Luigi Arditi, Mapleson's Covent Garden maestro, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 241 

and the present writer. Arditi conducted the first 
portion of the entertainment, and I directed the 
second or more " popular " as the programme had 
it selection. We also did short " divertissements " 
or " dances," and this season was about the last 
appearance of Mdlle. Sara " Wiry Sal " who one 
right objecting to the way I was conducting, took 
off one of her high-heeled boots, in which she 
always danced, and threw it at me in the orchestra. 
" Wiry Sal," or Mdlle. Sara (the name was taken 
from the then Sarah Bernhardt popular vogue), at 
the time was at the Oxford Music-hall contem- 
porary with two Hungarian big-boot dancers, Imre 
and Bolossy Kiralfy, the same " White City " Imre 
Kiralfy. 

The word " Sarah " was on everybody's lips, and 
it was thought to be a good " imitation " for the 
variety houses a species of " fraud on the label,"" 
now, alas ! only too common. 

This Empire season was under the direction 
ostensibly of Messrs. De Chastelaine and Le 
Vargues. The latter was the owner of the Hotel de 
Paris, now the Queen's, next door, but the finance 
was supplied by Messrs. Jarvis and George 
Edwardes the latter, dear old friend, not then known 
to Gaiety and Daly's fame and " Sara " was en- 
gaged, being the wife of " Long Jack Jarvis," the 
brother of the other partner. Messrs. Jarvis and 
Edwardes had also for two or three weeks run 
" The Lady of the Locket " when O'Hagan dropped 
it. This partnership was really " The Edwardes 
Menu Company " which ran the refreshment bars at 
most of the theatres. 

But no this combination of splendid song, 
stories, good ballet and good music, did not then 
catch on, and the further history of the Empire 
was more or less " wrapt in mystery," questionable 
finance and doubt till the Augustus Harris-George 
Edwardes Empire regime, the latter by this time 
also at the Gaiety; the rest is known. Except for 
one week in the Ormiston Chant business, the house 
has never closed. But in the meantime, Mr. D. 
Nicols, the proprietor of the Cafe Royal, who then 



242 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

owned the freehold, and whose estate is still in 
possession, tried a theatrical flutter or two, one of 
which was a comic operatic spectacle "The Palace 
<of Pearl." Somebody hoodwinked the French 
restaurateur into the belief that the way to soothe 
the Press was to " feed the brutes," so, anticipating 
.a dual advertisement for his theatre and his 
restaurant, he sent out with all his first-night Press 
tickets also an invitation for dinner at the Cafe 
Royal at 6.30. And then, as Pepys says, "on to 
the Empire." But at this period London journalists 
Tiad not yet recovered from an old taunt about their 
being easily bought with " chicken and cham- 
pagne " and poor old Nicols' " soixante converts " 
stood alone at the Cafe Royal at 6.30 untouched, 
uneaten, unrecorded, and his Empire production 
simply ran a few unsuccessful weeks and petered 
out. 

The Harris-Edwardes Empire regime ended in 
Augustus Harris going out and there always was 
a little antagonistic rivalry between " Gus " and 
George and for years he really felt that he made 
an error in this secession and was not easy till he 
.started the Palace Theatre in Shaftesbury Avenue. 

" Gus," shortly before his death, entered the 
musical comedy world, and this George Edwardes 
tilted at good-humouredly. Producing a musical 
play at Wolverhampton, called " The Telephone 
Girl," Gxis wired : 

" GEORGE EDWARDES, 

" ' Telephone Girl ' enormous success can I 
have the Gaiety Theatre?" 

"To which the wily, Gaiety good fellow replied : 

" DEAR GUS, 

" Glad to hear that Wolverhampton likes 
your musical comedy production." 

This brings one to what was considered the fiist 
move in the new music-hall the story of its failures 
and its ultimate successes none so great as now, 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 243 

when we hear that ^700 a week is being paid to 
two stars. When the Palace Theatre got into its 
stride, so to speak, it gave the lead-off to the 
" variety palace " or " theatre of varieties." 

The Palace was promoted by an American since 
dead Albert Netter. Its opening was the most 
tumultuous first-night I had ever experienced. 
Augustus Harris had forgotten the fact that all the 
seats had been booked for weeks, and when on a 
cold December day, a thousand first-nighters, who 
had waited from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m., were told they 
could only get " standing room," they forcibly took 
possession of the booked accommodation and the 
rest was chaos. Two ballets, " The Sleeper 
Awakened," by " Richard Henry " and Albert 
Renaud, and " London to Paris," by Cecil Raleigh 
for the latter of which I wrote the music in ten 
days were in the bill, but at 12.15 after midnight, 
we had only got half through the second ballet, and 
as it was Sunday morning, the curtain dropped 
suddenly, and the band played " God save the 
Queen," to clear out as moody and discontented a 
house as ever hissed a play. Failure was written 
everywhere, for weeks we trundled on, not knowing 
one week where the next week's finance was to come 
from, and at one moment 1 think at least thirty- 
Ihree winding-up petitions stared us in the face. 
At last came a public meeting a huge growling-for- 
blood crowd of disappointed shareholders the 
appearance on the stage of Sir A. Harris (since 
dead), George Augustus Sala (also gone), Count 
Max Hollander a kind and sympathetic gentleman 
(he too has also joined the great majority) a loud 
raucous oration from Mr. Wildey Wright, barrister 
(dead), who had been " retained " as a barrister, 
and " qualified " as a shareholder and an appeal 
for five shillings a share for reconstruction by the 
Drury Lane Napoleon, who said, " You know me, 
you knew my father, do what I tell you," and the 
position was saved. Notwithstanding this, Alfred 
Beyfus, the Company's solicitor, who was brother- 
in-law to Max Hollander, immediately sold two 
thousand one-pound shares for fourpence each, and 



244 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

we all went off to Paris to discuss a new ballet 
called " The Race for Life," by Cecil Raleigh, 
Augustus Harris, and James M. Glover. This 
scheme was never carried through as a ballet, for 
in the meantime the " Tableaux Vivants " had 
arrived at the Palace, and Harris and Raleigh with 
Heniy Hamilton turned the ballet into one of their 
most successful plays, " The Derby Winner." 

In Paris, where we all voyaged to consider the 
future, during this period, we were a merry throng 
Augustus Harris, Max Hollander, Ernest Polden, 
Alfred Beyfus, and Eugene Cremetti. In all our 
Shaftesbury trouble, Cremetti was the one optimist. 
He was not a director -then, but as the partner in 
Hollander and Cremetti he was deeply concerned, 
financially. He had one saying in French, " Mon 
cher ami, il faut trouver un clou " and he was 
right. The " clou " was found. But when Beyfus 
was selling at fourpence a share, Eugene was buy- 
ing them at three-and-sixpence, and I believe he is 
the largest shareholder now. The " Tableaux " were 
the last hope. Not one of the directors was present 
at the dress rehearsal, which I conducted my last 
appearance at the Palace so that they were all natur- 
ally enough anxiously awaiting me in the courtyard 
of the Grand Hotel to hear what Cremetti called the 
" dernieres nouvelles. " As I got out of the cab 
and shook a hasty hand-shake with Sir Arthur 
Sullivan, then in Paris Augustus Harris and the 
entire Board pounced down on me for my verdict. 
" Well," I said, " the Palace is either made on 
Tuesday morning or you are all in the dock at Bow 
Street, under Lord Campbell's Act, for publishing 
indecent pictures." I never saw a more crestfallen 
crowd of theatrical and financial magnates in the 
world for in addition to this there was the fact 
that the Licensing Sessions for the London County 
Council was to open on the Monday the same day 
as the dtbut of the " Tableaux Vivants " and the 
Palace would not be in the licensing list till the 
following Thursday thus giving time for any 
Ormiston Chant agitation that might arise. How- 
ever, Charles Morton had been to Clement Scott 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 245 

asked him to give him, his old friend, " a leg 
up," and two hours after the " Daily Telegraph " 
came out the next morning the box-office was 
besieged, and the Palace has never looked back 
since. 

The night that the success of the theatre was 
made by the " Tableaux Vivants " we all dined in 
Paris at the Cafe de Paris, and later on supped in 
Harris' private suite at' the Grand. Argument ran 
high. Harris said he would not have anything 
further to do with the " unlucky hole," and offered 
to sell his bundle of shares to Crernetti. At this 
lime the shares were officially quoted at ninepence, 
and Harris, at 3 a.m. in my presence in his room, 
accepted Cremetti's offer to be bought out at three- 
and-six to the extent of some thousands. 

Now all this bargaining was done in a volume of 
high words, and when Cremetti left the room, a 
hand tapped on the adjoining door and a voice cried, 
" Dites done, Monsieur! A cette heure jaut coucher 
c'est trois heurs du matin." 

" One minute," said Harris. " Who is this im- 
pertinent chap? Mon cher ami," continued Harris, 
" a qui est cette maison cette hotel je suis chez 
moi et je ferais tons que je vent." 

To this the Frenchman replied more annoy ingly, 
and to this Harris made some remark that the 
interruption was " mat eleve." Crash ! What a 
row! "I thought that would rile him," said 
" Druriolanus "and it did. 

I never heard such a noise in my life a jump 
out of bed a man crying in French, " I shall send 
my seconds to you in the morning! " Harris 
stating that he had to be in England the other 
asserting, " Mais non, 'vous ne partez pas, c'est une 
affaire d'honneur " a long silence, then finally the 
voice, " Alors je m'en vais vous donner un coup de 
pistolet! " I rushed out in the corridor to find an 
enraged Frenchman running up and down with a 
loaded pistol, wanting to shoot somebody. Honestly 
speaking I really would have liked to do an English 
journalistic coup, " Attempted assassination of Sir 
Augustus Harris in a Paris Hotel," " Jimmy Glover 



246 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

to the rescue," etc. It would have read splendidly, 
1 thought. 1 admit, however, that the glittering 
shining pistol, the enraged Frenchman, the excited 
corridor full of enraged sleepers just wakened up 
had a most soothing effect on my journalistic 
ambition. 

But peace beautiful peace soon reigned, and in 
the morning the disturbed one made a formal com- 
plaint. All the evening we had been arguing with 
Beyfus, and now it appeared we had been fighting 
with Dreyfus that was the name of the sleeper 
awakened by our discussion of Palace Theatre 
finance. He was a provincial corn merchant, who 
had used the hotel for years, and known to be of 
an excitable choleric nature. 

One of the first secessions from the theatre to the 
halls was the appearance at the Empire of the late 
Amy Roselle. This gave vent to an immense 
amount of controversy, but the thin edge of the 
wedge once in, the rest soon followed. " I want to 
see your father," said the new curate to the ex- 
convict's boy. " He's out, and he don't want no 
sky-pilots spying round," was the impudent reply. 
" Ah me ! at his old games again ! I want your 
father's body to get into heaven at present he's 
only got in his head and shoulders." " Garn ! " 
replied the boy, " that's all right. I never knew 
any crib father cracked that if he once got his head 
and shoulders in, his body wasn't sure to follow 
very soon." 

So it was about this time the stage got its head 
and shoulders in, and now we have the double 
licence, and soon the music-hall will be a thing of 
the past in its old form. The best of the old 
regime remains, but thetre are no Jenny Hills, 
Fannie Leslies, Bessie Bell woods, Nelly Powers, or 
their male prototypes, and so the tabloid drama, 
opera, etc., fills the bill, fills the house, and fills 
the shareholders' pockets. 

In looking for the improvement in the music-hall, 
it is useful to note that the ballad and " comique " 
literature has made no advancement. It is in 
Tottenham Court Road upholstery and the modern 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 247 

craze for luxury that the new improvement has 
arisen, and one by one huge " Palaces " and 
" Empires " grow up, which out-do each other in 
splendour, but Dan Lenos, Marie Lloyds, and 
Albert Chevaliers do not appear with rallombrosian 
thickness, and so one is inclined to the belief that 
the drama will have everything its own way, and 
that the ancient music-hall will soon be a rare 
curiosity. The picture theatre, of course, has to 
be reckoned with in the movement, but entirely 
through the absence of talent of its own particular 
genr? the county is over-music-hailed in bricks and 
under-supplied in brains, and is now lapping over 
the theatre, to the latter's disadvantage, and in the 
end we find that in many cases theatre-land is over- 
done. 

Thei'e is, however, hope that the new order of 
things bids for a better class of literature in the 
variety world. A few remaining examples of the 
red-nosed comedian and his equally offensive 
associates may exist, but it is encouraging to know 
that all that is good and clean appeals to the multi- 
tude, and we may yet further improve on even the 
present remarkable " levelling up " in our daily 
amusements. 

The humorous part of this movement is that any 
opposition to any improvement in the lighter 
amusements has always been met by the " light- 
toned " and "elect" with opposition ill-natured, 
ignorant, and bigoted. I myself " invented " or 
permanently revived the music-hall " Selection by 
the Band" of good music at the Palace; the 
Alhambra and the Empire followed suit, the Tivoli 
and others joining in the procession where works of 
good masters are now invariably the order of the 
night. 

In pantomime I have for twenty years tried to 
raise the level of the music. Good music for 1he 
people all the time never dull, but always pood. 
Two years ago, however, the real crux came. I 
did not want to give too much music-hall jingle to 
the masses besides, they had, in the years of 
Wagner, Beethoven, Gounod, and other maestri, 



248 JIMMY GLOVKK HIS BOOK 

been educated to expect always a " disclosure " from 
me. I gave it to them. Tchaikovsky's " Pathetic," 
played by a band of fifty-two, and twelve 
harps. 

But nc - good young academic person protested 
where do you think? in "The Times." And a 
lengthy discussion was the result. But I soon 
" made reply " and showed how I might have easily 
adopted another metier and used for my purposes 
the melodic accompaniments of such music-hall 
literature as : 

" Come where the booze is cheaper, 
Come where the pots hold more, 
Come where the boss is a bit of a joss, 
Come to the pub next door." 

Of the beautiful waltz refrain of : 

" Beer, beer, glorious beer, 
Fill yourself right up to here." 

Or perhaps the enervating lilt of : 

" Stop your tickling, Jock." 
And again : 

"A little bit off the top." 

For these were at my hands as the popular songs of 
the people. 

Most of my experiences of these amusements and 
other matters of public interest came to me what 
time I was musical and dramatic critic for the 
" Sun " and the " Weekly Sun " for five or six 
years ; when I acted in a like capacity for the 
"Evening News"; also the "Daily Mail," which 
had me on its staff down to 1910, when I had 
the honour of writing a series of signed articles 
for the " Daily Telegraph," some small quotation 
of which I have ventured to import ; but, of course, 
for nineteen years my personality at Drury Lane 
has been the one thing which has justified my 
daring to write this book. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 249 

And it is really curious how you come to 
experience so many strange emotions, hob-nob with 
so much " flotsam and jetsam," and generally pick 
up such a wide knowledge of the world's art, crime, 
and Bohemianism. 

It was in this way that I had a sort of " first 
pull " on the great Liverpool Bank frauds, a 
" scoop " of which I could not really make suffi- 
cient use. The facts arose as near as possible as 
follows : 

A bank clerk named Goudie in a Liverpool house 
had charge of the ledgers from A to H. All cheques 
drawn on these accounts come to him. He starts 
forging and spending large sums of money, and is 
met in a train from Newmarket by one or two of 
the " bhoys," i.e. race-course questionables. They 
then divining that a forty-shillings-a-week bank 
clerk must have some exceptional means of backing 
horses in large amounts, devise a scheme for him, 
which ultimately gives him ten years' penal servi- 
tude and a like sentence to a well-known pugilist. 
But before all this justice comes about, Mr. Hudson, 
the soap-maker, on whose account the operations 
were made, had lost many thousand pounds. It is 
strange, but this crime was public property for 
many months before the truth, as Lord Justice 
Matthew said once, did " out, even in an affidavit." 
It was offered to me, and to several other journalists 
who feared to touch it but one incident happened 
which led to publicity of much use in the discovery 
of the plot. I was in the waiting-room of a West- 
end toilet saloon one night with an Irish-American 
chevalier d'industrie one of the very best of the 

brigade, and to him spoke a racing tout named S . 

" I say, guv'nor, I've often given yer a good tip or 
two now I'm stoney (financially) broke : lend us 
a fiver for the week-end. I've had a bad time, -and 
there's the wife and two children without any 
Sunday dinner." My Hibernian friend, always 
generous to a fault, passed over the fiver and said, 
" Jimmie, I have often made a bit out of his tips, 
and I hadn't the heart to refuse." Some two or 
three months passed. We the benefactor and the 



250 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

present writer were sitting in the Cafe Royal 
about aperitif time. Suddenly there burst in 
the before-mentioned borrower, bedizened with dia- 
monds and in the pink of luxury. " Good evening, 
gents ! " Noticing my friend, his former benefactor, 
" Hello! old sport, I'm awfully glad to meet you! 
Will you and yer friend pack your throats (i.e. eat) 
with me? " Now, this was out of the question, as 
it would not have been worth our while to have 
been consciously seen in this gentleman's company. 
Apologies followed we had " another friend com- 
ing," etc., with whom " we were going to dine," 

and so on and so to the inner room M and I 

disappeared to wait for the apocryphal host, who, 
of course, never came. In the middle of our dinner 
the " bhoy " came in, noticed our solitude, sat 
down, and taking out a bundle of bank-notes, threw 
one on the table. " There y'are, guv'nor, that's 
what I owe you. Good night ! " and out he walked. 
M opened the note and found, to Ijis astonish- 
ment, not a five-pound note, but a fifty-pound one. 
For a moment he .stared, then, as if suddenly 
achieving an inspiration, asked me to follow him 
and rushed out to the outer room, where the " tout " 
was still wineing with a selection of his own 
"friends," and burst out, "Here! you've made a 
mistake. I only lent you a fiver : this is fifty ! " 
" Never you mind," promptly retorted the other, 
" you refused to dine with me, and that's to 
show you how I pay people back who do me a 
good turn." 

This sort of criminal extravagance led to the dis- 
covery of the whole plot. The various methods 
employed to hide the " swag," i.e. money, being 
diverse and curious even to a well-known music- 
hall manager (since deceased) being induced to fill 
his office safe with bundles of notes to the tune of 
thousands of pounds ; a payment through the bank 
might have led to quicker detection. 

Leaving a West-end music-hall one night several 
of us were invited by a well-known Bohemian to 
dinner at a popular restaurant. We sat down to as 
sumptuous a menu as one could have wished, and 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 251 

had just finished the soup when an awkward hiatus 
occurred. Our host was called on by the proprietor, 
and an angry dialogue took place. " You owe me a 
bill here of old standing twenty pounds," angrily 
shouted the Boniface; "and unless I receive some- 
thing now, immediately, on account, not another 
morsel will you or your guests receive here to- 
night." 

Protest was useless the proprietor was adamant 
but to our room quickly returned our host and 
candidty explained the situation. All offers to lend 
the necessaiy were of no avail. " Certainly not 
all follow me," so we filed out, ascended the Hay- 
market, to vScott's, and, on the instructions of our 
host, each purchased a lobster, a kipper, some 
dried haddocks, and other uncooked fish. Back 
to the still waiting, unused converts we wended 
our way, took our seats as before, rang for the 
manager and ordered him to have the succulent 
'but, by this time, strong-smelling fish " cooked 
immediately." 

It transpired that this hotel had originally existed 
as an inn, and only possessed an innkeeper's 
licence, and that in requiring this food to be cooked 
we were within the strict terms of the law. But 
poor old Pentecost, once of Epitaux's and the Cafe 
d'Europe everybody remembers him in the Hay- 
marketfell in with the joke, and in the end he 
served the dinner and, like the good sportsman he 
was, stood us the wine. 

In a book of this description, where anecdote, 
experience, opinion, and recitation all jostle each 
other, it is hard to know under what heading the 
smaller humours of life are to be placed, and there- 
fore I had determined to call this particular chapter 
" Olla Podrida." If I were in France " le panier de 
salade " would be better. Everybody knows the 
honest French house-wife's "vade mecum the string 
bag called the " panier de salade " in their French 
slang used to describe that very necessary official 
vehicle, known in this country as " The Black 
Maria." 

Passing through an environ of Cork County one 



252 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

day I was amused to see an inscription across some 
feudal gates which attracted my attention for the 
moment, but of which I took no notice till I was 
told its full story and sequel. It appears that some 
one had inscribed the following doggerel as a kind 
of Orange insult to the local Romans : 



" A Greek, Jew, Turk, or Atheist 
May enter here, but not a Papist ; " 



underneath which a Roman Catholic local travelling 
sign-writer had painted : 



"Whoever wrote this did it well, 
The same is writ on the Gates of Hell," 



which, after everything is said and done, is 
not quite the best translation over Dante's 
" Inferno." 

And talking of Dante's " Inferno " suggests again 
Gounod's " Faust," where Mephistopheles in the 
last act the Apotheosis scene descends amidst 
much red fire to Hades. At Belfast once the 
descending-trap stuck. Mr. Mephistopheles was in 
addition slightly given to embonpoint, and the 
" Devil " remained a stationaiy problem for the 
stage manager to settle, when a voice from the 
gallery shouted out, " Hooro, bhoys, Hell's 
full ! " 

But poor Federici the original Pirate King in 
Gilbert and Sullivan's " Pirates of Penzance " at 
Paignton actually died going down the trap with 
the red fire burning round him, during a perform- 
ance of " Faust " in Australia. 

The Richard Straus school of music, which has 
had its ephemeral promenades in Queen's Hall and 
Covent Garden, has evolved just the same sort of 
ribald criticism in some quarters which greeted 
Richard Wagner when J. W. Davidson a rabid 
anfi-Wagnerite published the following " Direc- 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 253 

tion for Composing a Wagner Overture," in " The 
Musical World " : 

"A sharp where you'd expect a natural; 

A natural where you'd expect a sharp ; 
No rule observe but the exceptional ; 

And then (first happy thought!) bring in a 

HARP! 

" No bar a sequence to the bar behind ; 

No bar a prelude to the next that comes ; 
Which follows which you really need not mind ; 
But (second happy thought!) bring in your 

DRUMS ! 

"For harmonies, let wildest discords pass; 
Let kev be blent with key, in hideous hash ; 
Then (for last happy thought !) bring in your 

BRASS ! 

* " And clang, clash, clatter clatter, clang, and 
clash ! " 

This, I think, if my memory serves me right, was 
written after a night during the Neuman Season at 
Her Majesty's, when the affairs of the late Marquis 
de Caux the first husband of Adelina Patti 
excited a great deal of attention, and the same 
organ burst into verse in dealing with the subject : 



A CAUX CLBRE 

<: Adelina was handsome, and sung 

In a way that enchanted the folks ; 
She was talented, thoughtless, and young, 
And she married the Marquis de Caux. 

" Her cash was his principal care 

His conduct her feelings oft shocks 
Adelina was urged to despair 

By the acts of the Marquis de Caux. 

" A tenor, whose tenor of life 

Wasn't even, by numerous chalks, 
Was the cause of additional strife 
'Twixt the songstress and Mister de Caux. 



254 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

" He paid her attention quite marked, 

Whereupon came a general row ; 

From Russia in haste they embarked 

For Paris, the Marquis de Caux. 



" They brought up the matter in court, 

And the way that it ended you know- 
Dissolution was granted as sought, 
Good-bye to the Marquis de Caux. 



EXPLANATION 

" Of such of my readers as lack 

Apprehension of recondite jokes, 
And wish things in plain white and black, 
I would ask, How do you pronounce ' Caux ' ? " 

A good many stories are told of Nicolini Patti's 
second husband. He was generally credited with, 
a reputation for not being a spendthrift this 
" Scawtch " cautiousness having many side- 
humours. Harris used to tell me a good story. The 
Knight of Drury Lane liked a good rich wine at 
dinner, and on one of his visits chez Ics Nicolinis 
at the Chateau de Craig-y-Nos, there was a large 
dinner- party. Harris sat next to Nicolini, who 
passed him the claret decanter. " Chambertin of 
the very best," said the tenor, " but for goodness' 
sake don't pass it down! " " Why? " said Harris. 
" Oh, all the other fellows are drinking ordinaire 
at i as. a dozen." 

Watching the procession of peers to the House 
of Lords 'via the stage-doors of the Musical Comedy 
Theatres, one is astonished at the number of foot- 
light favourites or otherwise, who have ta-ra-ra-d 
and tiara-d themselves to fame quite justifiably I 
admit. The blue-blood-must-join-blue-blood theory 
of course is long since dead, and, after all, many 
of the " sock and buskin " peeresses are above the 
average intelligence of the " Lady of Society " 
eligible. 

The list is far from complete, but it may for all 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 255 

purposes commence with the Duke of Cambridge 
and Miss Fairbrother. Then on to 

1882. Miss Leamar to the Hon. Mr. Buncombe- 

(son of the Earl of Feversham) . 
1885. Miss Edith Brandon (then at the Empire 

Theatre) to the Earl of Berkeley. 
1889. Miss Dolly Tester (a baker's daughter at 

Brighton, in . the ballet at the local 

theatre under Mrs. Nye Chart) to the 

Marquis of Ailesbury. 
1889. Belle Bilton (daughter of an Aldershot 

Canteen Sergeant) and the fifth Earl of 

Clancarty. 

1892. Connie Gilchrist and the seventh Earl of 

Orkney. 

1893. Lidiana Maichle (known in Drury Lane- 

Dramas as Madame Miska) and the third 
* Baron Haldon. 

1901. Rosie Boote and the fourth Marquis of 
Headfort. 

1905. Anna Robinson and the fifth Earl of 

Rosslyn. 

1906. Eva Carrington and the twenty-fifth Baron 

de Clifford. 

1906. Stella Berridge and the Earl of Clonmel. 

1906. Frances Donnelly and the fifth Baron Ash- 
burton. 

1906. Camille Clifford and the Hon. Henry Bruce,, 

eldest son of Lord Aberdare. 

1907. Denise Orme and the Hon. Yarde-Buller, 

now Lord Churston. 

1908. Sylvia Storey (daughter of Fred Storey, 

actor, dancer, and scene-painter) and the 
seventh Earl Poulett, who had to wrestle 
his title from a presumptive organ- 
grinder. 

1911. Zena Dare (daughter of Mr. Justice Big- 
ham's Clerk) and the Hon. R. Brett, son. 
of Lord Esher. 
Delia Sinclair and Sir Charles Huntingdon. 

Of course, in these days, when theatrical knights 



256 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

are plentiful, " ladies " by coiirtesy are to be 
officially found among many actresses, but the 
list I give shows how far-reaching has been the 
social leavening since the days of old, when to 
" marry an actress " was considered to be the arrival 
at the lowest form of social mesalliance. 

In fact, as I write, one of the only fears at an, 
extravagant increase in the personnel of the House 
of Lords is that Mr. Geo. Edwardes would have 
seriously to increase his Gaiety Chorus to cope with 
the demand. 



CHAPTER THE LAST 

Drury Lane The 1881 "Command" at Abergeldie 
"Money" Command in 1911 Why it was selected 
History of Drury Lane Theatre William Davenant 
(1639) to Arthur Collins (191 1) Plays produced from 
Augustus Harris to Arthur Collins Benefits The 
" Command " performance Official cast, etc. His 
Majesty's letters of thanks Mr Collins' account of the 
evening -The King and the R.A.'s pictures "A pleas- 
ant surprise" The German Emperor's song: "Wake 
up, England " Possibility of strained relations 
Various comments. 

FOR reasons before explained, all references to 
Drury Lane Theatre in this book are merely 
episodical. Its great history must be left to a later 
period, whoever its Boswell may be. But certain 
topical references must be elaborated, and the 1911 
epoch-making " Command " performance is a peg 
on which to hang many details of great interest. 

A " Command " performance had not taken place 
in England since '58 or '59, and after the death of 
the Prince Consort in 1861, until Her Late Majesty, 
Queen Victoria, " commanded " Edgar Bruce's 
company, then in Scotland, to play Sir F. C. 
Burnand's " The Colonel " at Abergeldie Castle on 
Tuesday, October 4th, iSSi. This unique occasion 
arose through the kind offices of the late King 
Edward. The cast included Edgar Bruce, C. W. 
Garthorne, Miss Glover, Miss Cissy Graham, etc. 
This fact was lost sight of in the recent plethora i>! 
historical detail written round the Drury Lane 1911 
" Money " representation. Many reasons have been 
given as to why King George selected " Money' 1 ; 
but in so doing he must have had many an anxious 
1 257 



258 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

thought, apart from the fact that his Royal Grand- 
mother, Queen Victoria, " commanded " " Money " 
on January i2th, 1854, at Windsor, by the Charles 
Keans from Drury Lane. Had he chosen a modem 
play, the Pineroites, Shavians, the Summerset- 
Maughams, and the various author factions would 
have all aroused a wail of jealousy too insuperable 
to be comfortable. " Money " is not a bad play of 
its kind the King wanted it, got it, and stated that 
he liked it, and it has this one particular advan- 
tage ; that most of all the theatrical somebodies, who 
were only nobodies in the 'Eighties, have at various 
times played the same parts for some charitable 
purpose other than that for which they enacted on 
May lyth, 1911, so to combine for a " Command " 
performance on the same lines of brotherly love 
that existed for a mere " Actor's Benefit " was quite 
an easy matter. One of the dramatis personce sug- 
gested that the play should be advertised as 
" Money " or " When Knights were Bold," the cast 
including as it did Sir Squire Bancroft, Sir Charles 
Wyndham and Sir John Hare. 

The history of Drury Lane from 1617 to 1911 is 
chronologically interesting. As a mural record, the 
following is an exact copy now adorning the walls 
of Drury Lane Theatre. Great names adorn this 
list ; Christopher Wren, Lord Byron, Colly Gibber, 
Kemble, David Garrick, down to Chatterton (who 
is said, erroneous^, to have invented the " Shake- 
speare spelt ruin " maxim it was really Boucicault 
who wrote it), Edmund Falconer, dramatist, whose 
" Peep o' Day Boys " will ever live, on to Augustus 
Harris and Arthur Collins, whose career is now so 
honourably crowned by his monarch's patronage. 
All other published and recorded references to Drury 
Lane have been merely fragmentary, or collections 
of actors' experiences which have very small 
interest outside the various theatrical coteries con- 
cerned. Therefore, I hope that this list will prove 
useful to those who from time to time may wish to 
make reference to these pages when thinking of 
what has always been and always will be " The 
National Theatre." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 259 

THE THEATRE ROYAL 
DRURY LANE 

" WILLIAM DAVENANT (1639) TO ARTHUR COLLINS 
(1911). 

Royal Patent granted to William Davenant 

by Charles 1 1639 

Royal Patent granted to William Davenant 

by Charles II 1660 

Sir Thomas Killigrew and Sir William 

Davenant ....... 1662 

Sir Thomas Killigrew .... 1663-1680 

(Rebuilt by Sir Christopher Wren) 
C. Davenant and Alex. Daveuant . . . 1682 
Alex. Davenant ....... 1687 

Richard Langlej^, Sir Thomas Skipworth, 

Wilks, Colley Cibber, and Estcourt . 1703-1709 
Bdrton Booth, Cibber, and Dogget . . . 1713 

Sir Richard Steele 1715 

Crabbe, Wilks, and Booth .... 1732 

Laurence Lacy 1744 

David Garrick and Lacy ..... 1747 

(Reconstructed Robert Adams, Architect) 
Richard Brinsley Sheridan .... 1776 

(Rebuilt Holland, Architect) 

John Philip Kemble, Manager 1788-1796, 1800-1802 

(Fourth rebuilt Holland and Ben Wyatt, 

Architects) 

COMMITTEE OF RENTERS 

Lord Byron, Chairman 

S. J. Arnold, Manager .... 1812 
Robert William Elliston . . 1819-1826 
Stephen Price .... 1827-1830 

Alex. Lee 1831-1832 

Alf Bunn 1835-^41 

E. T. Smith 1852 

Edmund Falconer ..... 1862 
Falconer and F. B. Chatterton . . 1863 



260 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

F. B. Chatterton .... 1867-1879 
Sir Augustus Harris . . . 1879-1896 
Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, Ltd. 

(Arthur Collins) .... 1896 

Having shown the " managerial " history of the 
Lane, I will now give a list of its productions from 
the days of Augustus Harris to the present regime. 
The Renters were impossible people, and Harris 
was well rid of them in the 'Nineties, when their 
lease ended, and he was enabled to deal direct with 
the Duke of Bedford. The Renters were an Early 
Victorian example of debenture holders that held 
the lease and claimed possession nightly of a huge 
number of seats, had their own box-office keeper 
in attendance to admit and register them, and 
hampered the lease with dozens of impossible con- 
ditions, one of which was that the lessee could 
never remove any "scenery from the theatre even 
his own property after it had been brought in. In 
the end their lease died out and their reign of terror 
came to an end but not before Harris had given 
a term of hard labour to one of their " honoured 
brigade " who patronized the " Robinson Crusoe " 
pantomime season by using his own " Renter's 
stall " to go in with every night, and using some- 
body else's top coat to go out with. He used the 
same seat always, but used up six top coats before 
he was discovered. I only mention this unpleasant 
detail to show the calibre of some of the holders of 
this " script." 

This brings us to a consideration of the drama 
output of the present building, which is (with 
various rebuildings) one hundred years old this 
year. The last two managements have established 
its records, and for the first time I will publish its 
repertoire, commencing with the Augustus Harris 
regime. 

AUGUSTUS HARRIS MANAGEMENT 

George Rignold's Season. 

1879. " Henry V." (George Rignold), Shakespeare, 
Novr. ist; "Blue Beard" (Pantomime), 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 261 

Augustus Harris' first, Bros. Grimm, E. L. 
Blanchard, Deer. 26th. 

1880. " La Fille de Madame Angot," Ch. Lecocq, 
Mar. 2Qth; "Lady Audley's Secret,' 1 R. 
Roberts, Mar. 29th. 

Miss Marie Litton's Season. 

1880. "As You Like It," Shakespeare, May i3th; 

" The World," Merritt, Pettitt and A. 
Harris, July aist; " Mother Goose " (Panto- 
mime), E. L. Blanchard, Deer. 27th. 

1881. "The World " (Revival), Merritt, Pettitt, and 

A. Harris, Mar. i4th, preceded by " The 
Stores," Bucalossi, Rose and A. Harris. 

John M'Culloiigh's Season. 

iSSi. " Virginus," Sheridan Knowles, April 25th ; 
"Othello," Shakespeare, May I4th ; Season 
of the Ducal Court Company of Saxe- 
Meiningen, May 3oth ; " Youth," P. Merritt 
and A. Harris, Aug. 6th; "Robinson 
Crusoe" (Pantomime), E. L. Blanchard, 
Deer. 26th. 

Franke and Pollini's German Opera Season. 

1882. "Lohengrin," Wagner, May iSth ; "Die 

Fliegende Hollander," Wagner, May 2oth ; 
" Tannhauser," Wagner, May 23rd; 
" Fidelio," Beethoven, May 24th; "Die 
Meistersingers," Wagner, May 3oth ; 
" Euryanthe," Weber, June i4th ; "Tristan 
and Isolde," Wagner, June 2oth. 

Madame Ristori's Season 

1882. " Macbeth," Shakespeare, July 3rd ; " Eliza- 
beth," Giacometti, July i4th ; "Pluck," H. 
Pettitt and A. Harris, Aug. 5th ; " Sindbad " 
(Pantomime), E. L. Blanchard, Deer. 26th. 



262 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

The Carl Rosa English Opera Season. 

1883. " Esmeralda," Goring Thomas, Mar. 26th; 

" Fidelio," Beethoven, Mar. 29th; "The 
Bohemian Girl," Balfe, Mar. 3ist; " Trova- 
tore," Verdi, April 3rd; " Maritana," 
Wallace, April yth ; " Colomba," Mackenzie, 
April 9th; "Faust," Gounod, April loth ; 
" Mignon," Ambroise Thomas, April I4th ; 
" Youth " (Revival), P. Merritt and A. 
Harris, April 28th; "Freedom," G. F. 
Rowe and A. Harris, Aug. 4th; "The 
Opera Cloak," L. D. Powles and A. Harris, 
Septr. 8th; "A Sailor and his Lass," R. 
Buchanan and A. Harris, Octr. i5th ; 
" Cinderella " (Pantomime), E. L. Blan- 
chard, Deer. 26th. 

Carl Rosa Opera Season. 

1884. " Carmen," Bizet, April i5th; "Lucia di 

Lammermoor," Donizetti, April igth ; 
" Canterbury Pilgrims," Villiers Stanford, 
April 28th; " Haverley's Minstrels," May 
3ist; "The World," (Second Revival), 
Merritt, Pettitt and A. Harris, Septr. nth; 
" Dick Whittington " (Pantomime), E. L. 
Blanchard, Deer. 26th. 

1885. " Nadeshda," Goring Thomas, April i6th ; 

"Manon," Massenet, May yth; "Figaro," 
Mozart, May 3oth ; " A True Story," Eliot 
Galer, June i5th ; "It's Never Too Late to 
Mend," Charles Reade, July 27th ; " Human 
Nature," H. Pettitt and A. Harris, Septr. 
I2th; "Aladdin" (Pantomime), E. L. 
Blanchard, Deer. 26th. 

1886. "Human Nature," (Revival), Pettitt and A. 

Harris, April 24th ; Carl Rosa Season, May 
3ist; " Frivoli," Herve and W. Beatty 
Kingston, June 29th; "A Run of Luck," 
Pettitt and A. Harris, Aug. 28th ; Slavian- 
sky's Russian Choir (Matinees), July i3th 
and July iyth ; " The Forty Thieves " 
(Pantomime), E. L. Blanchard, Deer. 2yth. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 263 

1887. Carl Rosa Opera Season, April 3oth ; Italian 

Opera Season, June i3th; " Pleasure," Paul 
Merritt and A. Harris, Septr. 3rd; 
" Nitocris " (Matinee), Clo Graves, Novr. 
2nd; "Puss in Boots" (Pantomime), E. L. 
Blanchard. Deer. 26th. 

1888. " A Run of Luck " (Revival), H. Pettitt and 

A. Harris, March 3ist; " The Armada," H. 
Hamilton and A. Harris, Septr. 22nd; " The 
Babes in the Wood " (Pantomime, Dan 
Leno's first season), E. L. Blanchard, Harry 
Nicholls and A. Harris, Deer. 26th. 

1889. " The Royal Oak," H. Hamilton and A. 

Harris, Septr. 23rd; "Jack and the Bean- 
stalk," (Pantomime), H. Nicholls and A. 
Harris, Deer. 26th. 

1890. Carl Rosa Opera Season, April 5th ; " Paul 

Kauvar," Steele Mackay, May i2th; 
" Million of Money," H. Pettitt and A. 
Harris, Septr. 6th ;" Beauty and the Beast " 
(Pantomime), W. Yardley and A. Harris, 
Deer. 26th. 

1891. " It's Never Too Late to Mend " (Revival), 

Charles Reade, April nth ; " Formosa," 
(Revival), Dion Boucicault, May 26th; 
" Drink " (Revival), Charles Reade, June 
23rd; "A Sailor's Knot," Henry Pettitt, 
Septr. 5th; " Humpty Dumpty " (Panto- 
mime), H. Nicholls and A. Harris, Deer. 
26th. 

1892. German-Italian Opera (Extra to Covent 

Garden Performances), June i3th; "The 
Prodigal Daughter " (well-known racer, 
" Voluptuary " used), H. Pettitt and A. 
Harris, Septr. lyth; "Little Bo-Peep" 
(Pantomime), Wilton Jones and A. Harris, 
Deer. 26th. 

1893. English Opera (Spring Season), April 3rd; 

Comedie Franyaise Season, June 12th; 
Grand Opera (Extra Performances by 
Covent Garden Artistes), July I5th; "A 
Life of Pleasure " (Music by Glover), H. 
Pettitt and A. Harris, Septr. 2ist; " Robin- 



264 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

son Crusoe " (Pantomime, Augustus Harris* 
first great illness), H. Nicholls and A. 
Harris, Deer. 26th. 

1894. English Opera (Matinees from April 14th to 

May isth), March 24th; " Gentleman Jack " 
(James Corbett, Champion of the World) 
and W. A. Brady, April 2ist; German 
Opera (Extra Performance by Covent 
Garden Artists), June iQth ; "The Derby 
Winner" (Music by Glover), H. Hamilton, 
C. Raleigh and A. Harris, Septr. i5th ; 
" Dick Whittington " (Pantomime), C. 
Raleigh, H. Hamilton, and A. Harris 
(Music by Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1895. English Opera (Spring Season), conducted by 

Glover, April i3th ; Elenora Duse Season, 
Conducted by Glover, June 3rd ; Saxe- 
Coburg Ducal Company, June I7th ; 
"Cheer, Boys, Cheer" (Henry Russell 
present), C. Raleigh, A. Harris, and H. 
Hamilton (Music by Glover) , Septr. igth ; 
" Cinderella " (Pantomime, Motor Car first 
used on the Stage to take Cinderella to 
Ball), C. Raleigh, A. Harris and A. Sturgess 
(Music by Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1896. English Opera Season, Conducted by Glover, 

April 4th; "Jo " (Jennie Lee), May isth. 

Sir Augustus Harris died June 22nd. 

" Duchess of Coolgardie " (John Coleman's 
Season), Eustace Leigh and Cyril Clare, 
Septr. igth ; " Kiss of Delilah," Novr. 27th; 
" Aladdin " (Pantomime) (Management : 
Executors of Sir A. Harris and Oscar 
Barrett), A. Sturgess, Deer. 26th. 

Arthur Collins' Management First Season. 

1897. " White Heather," C. Raleigh and H. 

Hamilton (Music by Glover), Septr. i6th ; 
"Babes in the Wood" (Pantomime), 
Arthur Sturgess and Arthur Collins (Music 
by Glover), Deer. 27th. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 265 

1898. " White Heather " (Revival), May I2th ; " The 

Great Ruby," C. Raleigh and H. Hamilton 
(Music by Glover), Septr. i5th ; " The Forty 
Thieves " (Pantomime), Arthur Sturgess 
and Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), 
Deer. 26th. 

1899. " Hearts are Trumps," Cecil Raleigh (Music 

by Glover), Septr. i6th ; "Jack and the 
Beanstalk " (Pantomime), Arthur Sturgess 
and Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), 
Deer. 26. 

1900. " Marsac of Gascony," E. Vroom (Music by 

Glover), April 2ist; " Price of Peace," Cecil 
Raleigh (Music by Glover), Septr. 2oth ; 
" Sleeping Beauty and the Beast " (Panto- 
mime), J. Hickory Wood and Arthur 
Collins (Music by Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1901. " The Great Millionaire," Cecil Raleigh 

(Music by Glover), Septr. igth ; "Blue 
Beard " (Pantomime), J. Hickory Wood and 
Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), Deer. 
26th. 

1902. " Ben Hur " by General Lew Wallace (Klaw 

and Erlanger's Season), Dramatized by 
William Young, April 3rd; "The Best of 
Friends," Cecil Raleigh (Music by Glover), 
Septr. iSth ; " Mother Goose " (Pantomime), 
J. Hickory Wood and Arthur Collins (Music 
by Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1903. " Dante " by V. Sardou and H. Moreau 

rendered into English by Laurence Irving 
(Sir Henry Irving's season), Music by 
Xavier Leroux, April 3oth ; " The Flood 
Tide," Cecil Raleigh (Music by Glover), 
Septr. 1 7th ; " Huriipty Dumpty " (Panto- 
mime), J. Hickory Wood and Arthur Collins 
(Music by Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1904. Moody Manners Opera Season, May 2ist. 

Theatre closed for Improvements No Autumn 
Drama. Death of Herbert Campbell and Dan Leno. 

" The White Cat " (Pantomime), J. Hickory 



266 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Wood and Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), 
Deer. 26th. 

1905. Sir Henry Irving last season in London, April 

29th; "The Prodigal Son," Hall Caine 
(Music by Glover), Septr. 7th; "Cinder- 
ella " (Pantomime Fragson's first appear- 
ance), Sir F. C. Burnand, J. Hickory Wood, 
and Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), 
Deer. 26th. 

1906. "The Bondsman," Hall Caine (Music by 

Glover), Septr. 2oth ; " Sindbad," J. Hickory, 
Wood and Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), 
Deer. 26th. 

1907. "The Last of His Race," Donald MacLaren, 

May 1 8th; "The Sins of Society," Cecil 
Raleigh and Henry Hamilton (Music by 
Glover), Septr. i2th; "The Babes in the 
Wood " (Pantomime), J. Hickory Wood and 
Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), Deer. 
26th. 

Theatre closed for re-building on account of fire, 
March 2$th. 

1908. " The Marriages of Mayfair," Cecil Raleigh 

and Henry Hamilton (Music by Glover), 
Septr. 2ist; "Dick Whittington," J. H. 
Wood and Arthur Collins, Deer. 26th. 

1909. Castellauo Italian Opera Season, May 3ist 

and June 28th; " The Whip," Cecil Raleigh 
and Henry Hamilton (Music by Glover), 
Septr. gth; "Aladdin" (Pantomime), Sir 
Francis Burnand, Hickory Wood and 
Arthur Collins (Music by Glover), Deer. 
27th. 

1910. "The Whip" (Revival), March 26th; "Jack 

and the Beanstalk " (Pantomime) (Music by 
Glover), Deer. 26th. 

1911. " The Sins of Society " (Revival), March 3oth. 

BENEFITS 

G. Rignold's Benefit (" Black-Eyed Susan "), 
1879, Deer. 5th and 6th ; Royal General Theatrical 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 267 

Fund Benefit (Matinee), 1881, Feb. 28th; Charles 
Harcourt Memorial Fund Benefit, 1881, May i8th ; 
William Holland's Benefit (Matinee), 1881, Deer. 
7th ; Benefit of Sam Hayes, 1882, May i4th ; R.G.T.F. 
Benefit (Matinee), 1883, Mar. igth ; Actors' Benevo- 
lent Fund (Matinee), 1884, May 29th ; R.G.T.F. 
Benefit (Matinee), 1884, April 3rd; A.B.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1884, June igth ; Benefit to F. B. Chatter- 
ton (Matinee), 1885, Mar. 4th; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1885, Mar. 26th; Benefit to Lady Julius 
Benedict, whose husband wrote " The Lily of 
Killarney " (Matinee), 1885, June 23rd; William 
Creswick's Farewell, 1885, Octr. 29th ; Harry 
Jackson's widow Benefit, 1885, Novr. 26th ; R.G.T.F. 
Benefit (Matinee), 1886, Mar. 4th; Benefit to Lionel 
Brough (Matinee), 1886, July 6th; Mr. and Mrs. 
Edmund Russell's Matinee, The Harmony and 
Expression of Motion, 1886, July 3ist; R.G.T.F. 
Benefit (Matinee), 1887, April 2ist; Charles Warner's 
fienefit (Matinee), 1888, June 7th; Mrs. Anna 
Conover's Benefit (Matinee), 1888, June nth; 
Exhibition of Armada and Elizabethan Relics (in 
the Foyer), 1888, Octr. 4th; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1889, April iith; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1890, Mar. i7th ; Benefit to widow of E. 
L. Blanchard, 1890, June 2nd; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1891, April 23rd ; Aged French Professor's 
Benefit (Matinee), 1891, June 3oth ; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinee), 1892, Novr. 24th; Peterkin Opera Com- 
pany (" Royalty ") Benefit (Matinee), 1893, Septr. 
28th; "Sun " Miners' Benefit (Matinee), 1893, Octr. 
i2th; R.G.T.F. Benefit (Matinee), 1893, Deer. 4th; 
" Genoveva " Opera by Pupils of the Royal College 
of Music, 1893, Deer. 6th; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinees), 1894, Novr. i5th ; 1895, Novr. 28th; 1896, 
Novr. i2th; 1897, Novr. i8th ; Nellie Farren Benefit 
(Matinee), 1898, Mar. i7th; R.G.T.F. Benefit 
(Matinees), 1898, Novr. i7th ; 1899, Novr. 2ist; Boer 
War Matinee (Princess Christian), 1900, May i^th; 
Canadian Matinee (Ottawa Fire Disaster), 1900, 
June igth; R.G.T.F. Benefit (Matinees), 1900, Novr. 
27th; 1901, Novr. 2ist; 1902, Novr. 2oth; Actors' 
Association Matinee (" Merchant of Venice "), Cast 



268 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

included Sir Henry Irving, Ellen Terry, etc., etc., 
1903, July i^th; Ellen Terry Jubilee (Matinee), 1906, 
June i2th; Lord Mayor's Cripples Fund (Matinee), 
1907, Mar. 5th ; Davos Sanatorium Matinee, 1909, 
May nth. 

Following the legitimate season from March 3oth 
we come to the i7th May, 1911, when His Majesty 
the King, George V., " commanded " " Money " 
by Lord Bulwer Lyttou. Here is the official pro- 
gramme : 

G. R. 

DRURY LANE THEATRE ROYAL 

Managing Director, Arthur Collins.. 



By the Gracious Command of 

HIS MAJESTY THE KING 

in Honour of the Visit of their Imperial Majesties 

THE GERMAN EMPEROR AND THE GERMAN 

EMPRESS 



Wednesday Evening, May lyth, at Nine o'clock, 
His Majesty's Servants will perform 

MONEY 

By Edward Bulwer, Lord Lytton. 
Under the direction of Mr. Arthur Collins. 



The play produced by Sir Squire Bancroft. 



Lord Glossmore . . . Mr. Fred Terry. 
Sir John Vesey . . . Mr. John Hare. 
Sir Frederick Blount . . Mr. Cyril Maude. 
Captain Dudley Smooth . Sir Chas. Wyndham. 
Mr. Graves . . . .Sir Herbert Tree. 
Mr. Stout . . . .Sir Herbert Tree. 
Alfred Evelyn . . . Mr. Geo. Alexander. 
Mr. Sharp .... Mr. Laurence Irving. 
An Old Member of the Club Mr. Alfred Bishop. 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 269 

Sir John Vesey's Servant Mr. Lewis Waller. 

Toke .... Mr. Edmund Maurice. 

Mr. Flat . . . Mr. Chas. Hawtrey. 

Mr. Green . . - Mr. Sydney Valentine. 

Frantz .... Mr. Wheedon Grossiuith. 

Tabouret . . . Mr. J. H. Barnes. 

Grab .... Mr. James Fernandez. 

MacFinch . . . Mr. Charles Rock. 

MacStucco . . . Mr. Norman Forbes. 

Crimson . . . Mr. Don Boucicault. 

Patent .... Mr. Dennis Eadie. 

Kite .... Mr. J. D. Beveridge. 

The Old Club Servant . Mr. Edward Terry. 

Lady Franklin . . Miss Winifred Emery. 

Georgina Vesey . . Miss Alexandra Carlisle. 

Clara Douglas . . Miss Irene Vanbrugh. 

Club Members, Servants, Waiters : Messrs. Oscar 
Adye, Henry Ainley, Marsh Allen, Allan Aynes- 
worth, George Barrett, Murray Carson, Vincent 
Clive, Frank,' Collins, W. Devereux, Kenneth 
Douglas/ H. De Lange, Gerald du Maurier, H. V. 
Esmond, George Graves, Lyn Harding, Rudge 
Harding, Luigi Lablache, Robert Loraine, C. M. 
Lowne, Norman McKinnell, Austin Melford, 
Dawson Milward, Harry Nicholls, Robert Pateman, 
Harry Paulton, Fred Penley, Arthur Playfair, 
Arthur Poole, Frederick Ross, Howard Russell, C. 
Aubrey Smith, C. W. Somerset, Sam Southern, E. 
Lyall Swete, Herbert Warren. 

Assistant Stage Managers, E. D'Auban and E. V. 
Reynolds. 

Musical Director, J. M. Glover. 
Business Manager, Sidney Smith. 

Doors open at 7.30. The audience is requested to 
be seated at 8.30, as the curtain will rise at 9. 
Ordinary evening dress to be worn in all reserved 
parts of the theatre. Amphitheatre (unreserved) 53. 



270 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

The result is best described in His Majesty's own 
words I quote from the Royal record in the nest 
day's papers Letter from Sir William Carrington, 
the King's Privy Purse Secretary : 

" Privy Purse Office, 

" Buckingham Palace, 

" May i8th, igu. 
" DEAR MR. COLLINS, 

" I have received the King's commands to 
assure you on his behalf and on behalf of the 
German Emperor, of the German Empress, and of 
the Queen, that their Majesties sincerely congratu- 
late you upon last night's triumph at the Theatre 
Royal, Drury Lane. 

" His Majesty asks you kindly to convey his own 
and their Majesties' warm thanks to Mr. Ernest 
D'Auban, your stage-manager, and his assistants, to 
your Secretary, Mr. R. H. Lindo, and those who are 
with him, to Mr. James Glover and his fine 
orchestra, to Mr. R. McCleery, your scenic artist 
and his colleagues, and to one and all of your other 
employees for the invaluable assistance they so 
admirably and readily rendered. 

" Their Majesties were much struck with the 
beauty of the decorations of the theatre, which 
formed a splendid setting worthy of the scene. 
Perhaps you will be so good as to inform Messrs. 
Maple and Co. to this effect. 

" A hearty and loyal combination of art, of skill, 
of experience, and of energy, brought about this 
memorable representation of Lord Lytton's comedy 
of ' Money,' a performance which, in the opinion 
of the King, will ever stand out high and bright 
in the long and honourable annals of the British 
stage. 

" I remain, dear Mr. Collins, 
" Yours very truly, 
" (Signed) WILLIAM CARRINGTON 

"Arthur Collins, Esq. 
" Theatre Royal, 

" Drury Lane, W.C." 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 271 

Could greater or more graceful testimony be paid 
to any manager than this charming message from 
tae King ? It was an occasion of interest, incident, 
and national importance. A subsequent letter was 
written to Mr. Sidney Smith, the business manager, 
also thanking him in the name of the King. 

The two Kings and their suite arrived at 9 o'clock 
sharp, and the German Empress and Queen Mary 
were presented with two bouquets by Mrs. Arthur 
Collins, and it might be interesting to quote the 
Drury Lane manager's own account of the evening. 

" The Royal party then proceeded through the 

* rotunda ' to the foot of the grand staircase, the 
King remarking, ' What beautiful flowers ! What 
lovely decorations ! ' As we reached the staircase, 
Mrs. Collins, who was even more nervous than 
myself, presented Queen Mary and the German 
Empress with bouquets, Mr. Linclo, our Secretary, 
assisting her. Then I led the party to their seats 
in the Royal box, in which I placed electric bells 
communicating with the stage, so that I could 
signal to the orchestra to play the National Anthem 
immediately on the arrival of the King and his 
guests. During the interval, after the Club Scene, 
His Majesty and the German Emperor proceeded to 
the Grand Saloon, which had been converted into a 
retiring-room, and there inspected the sketches 
which had been made for the new act-drop. They 
both did me the honour to express themselves as 
being immensely interested in and struck by the 
manner in which all the details had been so care- 
fully prepared. After the curtain had finally fallen, 
as the members of the Royal party were putting on 
their overcoats and wraps, the Emperor observed, 

* I understood " Money " was an old comedy, but 
it certainly does not strike me as at all old. I have 
never seen better acting.' The King and Queen 
again congratulated me, the former mentioning that 
the new act-drop had taken everybody completely 
by surprise. ' There, your Majesty,' I replied, ' is 
Mr. Seymour Lucas, who is responsible for the de- 
sign.' The King at once turned and cordially shook 



272 JIMMY GLOVER PUS BOOK 

hands with the eminent R.A., complimenting him 
on his work, and presenting him to the German 
Emperor. 

' ' At the carriage door there were more congratula- 
tions and more haiid-shakings. In the most charm- 
ing way possible, the Prince of Wales and Princess 
Victoria Louise also expressed their high apprecia- 
tion of the evening's entertainment." 

By the time the Royal visitors had arrived ten 
thousand and twenty-seven pounds worth of ticket 
holders had been booked. And what a house ! A 
huge glitter of diamonds of jewels of beauties ! 
The Rue de la Paix, Bond Street and Hatton Garden 
let loose in brilliants ! Paquiii and Worth at their 
best in costumes ! The entire Debrett and Burke in 
peerage, finance, the Stock Exchange, painting 
music and the higher drama ; all present to extend 
a cheer to the Royal German Emperor over here 
for the unveiling of the Queen Victoria memorial. 
As the Royal Party entered " God Save the King " 
the melody which serves as the National Anthem 
for both nations, England and Germany rang 
through the house, and all was quiet till a volcanic 
burst of applause announced the discovery of the 
new and very beautiful act-drop, from the design of 
Seymour Lucas, R.A., which had been painted by 
R. C. McCleery from original studies by Miss Kemp 
Welch, the famous horse-painter, allegorically 
treated in the Italian style. In the centre the 
German Emperor and King George on horseback 
were represented as meeting and saluting one an- 
other. At the side of the Emperor stood Germania 
and opposite the figure of Britannia, near H.M. 
the King. Overhead floated Peace decorating the 
two monarchs with laurel wreaths. The lower part 
of this background represents an idealized view of 
London in the distance, with St. Paul's in the centre. 
In the foreground young girls were seen scattering 
flowers of greeting in front of the Emperor on Ids 
white steed. This was a triumph in itself, as the 
King afterwards remarked, and " took him quite by 
surprise." The evening was one huge success not 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 273 

a single hitch, not a solitary defect. " Roses roses 
all the way," as Robert Browning sings. 

For my own part in this memorable ceremony, it 
was purely administrative. There was no distinc- 
tive music to be played in " Money," but I managed 
to gain some individuality in the process. In the 
first place I scored the German Emperor's own 
" Song of Aegir," and as the newspapers had it the 
next day : " The German Emperor seemed highly 
pleased, and bowed twice to Mr. Glover and the 
band." The Emperor has a nephew at school at 
Bexhill, so I got the nephew and his tutor, Dr. 
Blassiieck, to do me an English version. 

But an amusing contretemps arose. It may be 
remembered that when King George, as Prince of 
Wales, returned from Australia some years ago, his 
first words at a Guildhall Banquet, speaking in 
defence of English commerce, were : " Wake up, 
England! " and I had also heard that our "Sailor 
King' " had a preference for nautical ditties, so I 
arranged a special maritime selection, and called 
it " Wake up, England." I really had no idea of 
any topical application merely a sort of reminis- 
cence, but in the arrangement of the programme, 
which arose in the office away from serious thought, 
it came out and was sent to the Press like this : 

1. " Song of Aegir " H.I.M. The German Emperor 

2. " Wake up, England " J. M. Glover 

I admit the juxtaposition was unfortunate but 
unforeseen, Morocco was not even then thought of, 
so I quietly bowed to an avalanche of anonymous 
letters, which the first newspaper publication of 
the programme brought me, and changed the title 
of the selection to " Songs of Britain." One of the 
"anonymous" protests, however, was humorous, 
so I will quote it in full : 

" Are not the relations between England and 
Germany sufficiently strained without their beingf 
accentuated by your impertinent pantomime 
humour? " 



27^! JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

Shades of " The Skibbereen Eagle " and the Czar 
of Russia. As for the performance itself, it had 
many special and exceptional attributes, which I 
will tabulate. 

1. The early door people a boy scout and an 
eighty-three year old first-nighter a Mrs. Davies 
arrived at 10.30 a.m. the day previous thirty 
hours in advance. This was the early door 
" record." Up to this time it had been held by 
the Nellie Farren Benefit; "waiters" who formed 
their queue at 11.30 the night previous for a per- 
formance which did not start till 1.30 p.m. the 
following day. 

2. It took four hundred policemen to keep the 
crowd off, to watch the light-fingered gentry, and 
.generally govern those whose business is outside 
the theatre. 

3. So many leading London actors took part, that 
on the night in question three London theatres had 
to close. The costumes (Early Victorian) for the 
one night cost ^800, and each actor received a 
present of his own outfit as a memento of the 
occasion. 

4. The added ages of those actors in the cast 
proper came to 1544. This, without the Club 
Scene volunteers. 

5. Drury Lane Theatre had to be closed for three 
nights to admit of the scheme of decoration being 
carried out. His Majesty the King considerately 
asked that every one should be paid for closed 
nights, which was done. 

6. The night receipts were the biggest on record 
^10,027 ; of this a matter of 3000 odd profit was 
sent to three of the Theatrical Charities. 

7. Every name except the unreserved had been 
submitted to Scotland Yard and Buckingham 
Palace, before the first performance, so that with 
the exception of the galleryites the police were in 
touch with every person in the house. 

8. Fifty detectives, fifty special firemen, and fifty 
commissionaires permeated every corner of the 
theatre, the first with a view to pickpockets, the 
second to ensure safety from fire, and the third to 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 275 

ensure efficient attendant administration. During 
tie rehearsals the L.C.C. officials tried, with 
lighted matches, to set fire to the hangings of the 
Royal box and the band at the time was rehearsing 
a selection called " Nero." 

In the saloon used as a retiring-room by the 
Royalties and guests, the original studies of the 
figures on the act-drop were exhibited on eight 
easels ; at the extreme end of the room being shown 
King George, and facing him the Emperor, while 
frames on other easels were filled by Britannia, 
Germania, Peace, the horses, etc. The large 
polished mahogany board on the wall, recording 
the names of the previous managers and patent 
holders of the National Theatre, which has been 
reproduced in this chapter, was faced with a dupli- 
cate tablet, giving the cast of " Money " at this 
performance, with other particulars about all con- 
cerned in the production, forming a very handsome 
addition to the permanent decoration of the fine 
room, in addition to being a very interesting record 
for playgoers of the future. 

For purposes of record only, I append the musical 
programme of this wonderful night : 

PROGRAMME OF MUSIC. 

Under the Direction of Mr. James M. Glover 

[Before Royalty arrived] 
Selection " A Day in Naples " G. W. Byng 

" The National Anthem " 
Pie.ce " Songs of Britain " . J. M. Glover 
Valse" The Chocolate Soldier " 

Strauss 

Selection" The Quaker Girl " Lionel Monckton 
Two Pieces (a) " In the Shadows " 

Herman Finck 

(b) "Nero" . S. Coleridge-Taylor 
" God Save the King." 

Thus ended a great night. It had many points 
of humour, of pride for those who organized its 



276 JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 

success, and was the source of many a quip and 
jape between the great actors who played the small 
parts. 

One growl only. On the day of the performance 
many people besought the management to allow 
them the courtesy of viewing the decorations. This 
favour was granted, and favoured ones came, saw, 
and started purloining from the Royal box the 
valuable souvenirs already laid out for Royalty. 
"Was ever such ingratitude ? Was ever such un- 
justifiable theft.! Again, in the evening many 
highly dressed Games and their cavaliers people 
who had paid ten guineas for their stalls remained 
after the departure and stripped each stall of its 
posies part of the decorations which the manage- 
ment were reserving for promised exhibition in 
future performances. Another lady, with enough 
diamonds visible to stock a Bond Street jeweller's, 
went round the stairs, and in my presence collected 
six of the souvenir programmes and hid them under 
her cloak. We talk about the curio-hunting 
American and his petty souvenir vandalisms, but 
after this America takes a back seat. One more 
incident in connection with the performance. I had 
arranged to do a magazine page for an important 
Daily on the morning of the iyth the central piece 
to be the German Emperor's song, the rest scraps 
of melodies written and composed by other Royalties 
Henry VI., Henry VIII., Charles II., Marie 
Antoinette, Louis XIII., and Princess Beatrice of 
Battenberg. To make sure of copyright, I had a 
wire sent to the German Emperor's publisher in 
Berlin for permission. This they refused, and I 
saw a dilemma. Nothing daunted, I said, " What's 
the matter with the composer, H.I.M. Buckingham 
Palace ? " and so off we wired and the consent came 
tack, " With pleasure." 

And now I think that this book of a life's olla 
Podrida must finish. A record of the great 
" Command " night at Drury Lane fittingly brings 
it to an end. I have endeavoured to make it 
interesting. " Reminiscences " are inclined to be 
egotistical they are inclined to be dull in their 



JIMMY GLOVER HIS BOOK 277 

iteration and they are inclined to be too personal 
and esoteric. For this reason I have carefully, here 
and there, interspersed the various " on dits " or 
quips with matters of general criticism, comment, 
and opinions. 



INDEX 



Adams, 259 

Adams, Sam., igi, 192 

Ailesbury, Marquis, 255 

Albani, Madame, iig 

Albert, F., 236 

Albery, Jas., 26 

Alexander, 164 

Alias,- C., 71 

Alvary, M., 118, 133 

Anson, G. W., 61 

Arditi, L., 22, 24, 240, 241 

Arnold, Chas., 184 

Arnoldson, Sigrid, 125 

Ascherberg, E., 66, 185, 

i go 

Ashburton, Lord, 255 
Ashley, H., 177 
Athlumney, Lord, 67 
Audran, E., 53, 175, 173 
Auguste, Madame, in 
Avory, Sir H., 2ig, 220 



B 

Balf, 181 
Balfour, A., 240 
Bancroft, Squire, 258, 268 
Bard, Wilkie, 212 
Barnato, B., 220 
Barnby, Sir J., 201, 204, 

205 

Barrett, O-, 144 
Barrett, Wilson, gg, 227, 

228, 22g 

Barrington, Rutland, 179 
Barrington, Sir E., 166 



Barrington, Sir John, 30 
Barry, Shiel, 65, 185, 238 
Beaufort, Duke of, 75, 187 
Bedford, Duke of, 135, 260 
Beecham, T., 172, 200, 201 
Belasco, D., 77 
Bellwood, B., igo, 23g 
Bendall, W., 186 
Beresford, Lady, i6g 
Berkeley, Earl, 255 
Bernhardt, S., 241 
Berridge, Stella, 255 
Bettini, 22, 23 
Bevignani, 170 
Beyfus, A., 244, 246 
Bernard, Charles, 237 
Bigham, Justice, 221, 223, 

255 

Bignell, igi 
Bilton, Belle, 112, 237, 238, 

255 

Bilton, Flo., 237, 238 
Binstead, A. M., 31 
Bispham, D., 202, 208 
Bizet, 203 

Blassneck, Dr., 273 
Bode, M., 150, 151 
Boosey, W., 185 
Boote, Rosie, 255 
Bottomley, H., 217 
Boucicault, 2g, 181, 183, 

258 

Bourchier, A., 230, 234 
Bowyer, F., 23g 
Boyd, F. M., gg 
Brabazon, Lord, 230 
Bracy, H., 177 
Brampton, Lord, 3g 
Brandon, Edith, 255 



279 



280 



INDEX 



Breslin, 43 

Brett, Hon. R., 255 

Bridge, Sir John, 217 

Bright, Jacob, QQ 

Brookfield, Chas., 36, 137 

Browne, Dr. Lennox, IQQ 

Browning, Miss, 34 

Brozel, P., 202 

Bruce, E., 257 

Bruce, Hon. Henry, 255 

Buchanan, R., 88, 219 

Burke, Peter, 40, 272 

Burns, Georgina, 209 

Bussy, F. M., 48 

Butler, R., 216 

Byng, G. W., 68, 72, 186 

275 

Byrne, 42, 43 
Byron, H. J., 81 
Byron, Lord, 258 



Caine, Hall, 154, 164, 228 
Calve, 118, IIQ, 124, 125 
Cambridge, Duke of, 255 
Cameron, V., 177 
Campbell, H., 150, 151, 161 
Campbell, Mrs. P., no, 

I 12 

Campobello, 22, in 

Capoul, 203 

Carl Rosa, 202, 203, 207, 

2og, 210, 236, 262, 263 
Carlvle, W., 226 
Carrington, Eva, 255 
Carrington, Sir W. 5 270 
Carrodus, 123 
Carte, D'Oyly, 27, 88, 91, 

94, 179, 180, 195, 200 
Carter, Hilton, 201, 205 
Caruso, 88, 195. 
Celli, Frank, 190, 206 
Cellier, A., 89, QI, 92, 233 
Cellini, 23, 209 
Chambers, Sir T., 64 
Chatterton, F. B., 129, 258 
Chevalier, A., 191, 239, 247 



Cheylesmore, Lord, 67 
Chirm, S., 21 1 
Christy, Mr., 237 
Churchill, Lord Randolph, 

1 10 

Churston, Lord, 255 
Gibber, C., 258 
Clancarty, Earl, 255 
Clarence, Duke of, 186 
Clarke, Hamilton, 140, 141, 

233 

Clarke, Savile, 93 

Claude, Angelina, 177 

Clay, C. 3 139 

Clay, F., 139 

Cleverly, Mr., 217 

Clifford, Camille, 255 

Clonmel, Earl, 255 

Coborn, C., 186 

Coffin, Hayden, 70, 185, 
IQO, 205 

Cole, 121, 209 

Coleman, John, 131 

Collette, Charles, 58, 142 

Collins, Arthur, 54, 92, 
109, 113, 116, 123, 130, 
131, 136, 137, 138, 143- 
14.5, 147, 163, 166, 178, 
1 88, 190, 191, 232, 258, 
268 

Collins, Mrs., 271 

Collins, Wilkie, 61 

Comelli, A., 54 

Cook, Aynsley, 189 

Cook, Miss A., 171 

Coombes, W. H., 51 

Coote, C., 66 

Costa, Sir Michael, 130 

Cotogni, 22, 23 

Covven, F. H., 89, 119, 120 

Cox, Harry, 177 

Crabbe, 259 

Cremetti, E., 244, 245 

Crotty, L.j 209 

Crowdy, J., 117 

Crowe, A. W. G., 182 

Cullen, Cardinal, 27, 29 

Curzon, F., 165 



INDEX 



281 



D 



Daly, A., 166 
Dalziel, Sir J. H., 103 
Dami, Sig., 75 
Dare, Zena, 2235 255 
Dare, Phyllis, 223 
Darnley, H.., 147 
D'Auban, 162, 270 
Davis, Jimmy, 38, 30, Q8 
Davies, Ben, 190, 210 
Davies, D., 178 
Dawson, C., 153 
de Bathe, Lady, 230 
de Caux, Marquis, 253 
de Clifford, Lord, "Ned," 

i 86, 2S5 
de Lucia, 1 18 
de Reszkes, 114, 123, 137, 

203 

de Rothschild, A., 93 
Debrett, 272 
Desprez, F., 95 
Didcott, H. J., IQI 
Disraeli, 183 
Dix, 44 

Dolaro, S-, 171, 177 
Dones, Mr., 223 
Donnelly, Frances, 255 
Dowling, R., 0.6, Q7 
Dowse, Baron, 45, 47 
Doyle, Conan, 125 
Dreyfus, 246 
Drummond, H., 75 
Duffy, Sir Charles Gavan, 

35, 45 

Duncombe, 237, 255 
Dunlo, Lord, 112, 237 
Dunn, Sir W., 159 
Dupaigne, 4Q 
Durham, Lord, 38 
Dysart, Earl, 133 



Edinburgh, The Duke of, 

IIQ, IQ6 

Edmunds, Lewis, 134 
Edward VII., 68, 70, 149 



Edwardes, Geo., 39, 66, 68, 

176, 184, 242, 256 
Egerton, F., 57 
Elgar, Sir E., 171 
Elliston, S., 206 
Elrington, S. N., 31 
Esher, Lord, 76, 255 
Eversfield, Harry, 126 



Fairbrother, 255 
Falconer, E., 181, 258 
Fancelli, 203 

Farnie, H. B., 62, 68, 71, 
91, 92, 174, 175, 177, 178 
Fawn, J., 236 
Fawsitt, Amy, 26 
Fife, Duke of, 149 
Finck, Herman, 68, 72, 275 
Fischoff, Mr., 125 
Fletcher, 180 

Forsyth, Neil, 114, 115, 137 
Fowler, F. H., 196 
Fragson, H., 185 
French, T. H., 178 
Fricker, Adm., 24 
Frohman, Charles, 163 
Fullerton, W., 69 



Gadsby, H., 72 
Gailhard, 209 
Garrick, David, 258 
Garthorne, G. W., 257 
Gatti, Bros., 88, 89, 131, 

139, 219, 234 
Gatti, J. M., 219 
Gaylord, 209 
Gherlson, Miss, 119 
Gibbons, 101 
Gilbert, W. S., 180, 232, 

.233 . 

Gilchrist, Connie, 255 
Gill, Allen, 73 
Gillespie, Mr., 231 
Gladstone, Mr., 19, 46, 96, 

103, 115 



282 INDEX 



Glover, F., 44, 193 
Glover, Miss, 57, 257 
Glo\er, Prof., 18, 20 
Glover, W. F., 237 
Godfrey, C., 239 
Godwin, E. W., 100 
Goldberg, W.,, 75 
Gounod, C., 1 19, 203, 235, 

236, 262 
Gourdi, 249 
Graham, C., 257 
Gribble, F. H., 98 
Griffiths, W. H., 58 
Green, R. , 202 
Greenwood, F., 98 
Grossmith, G., 88, 151, 217 
Grundy, Sidney, 66, 70, 205 
Guilbert, Yvette, 239 
Gunns, M., 25-27, 57, 91 
Gye, 171, 207, 235 

H 

Hague, Sam., 184 
Haldon, Baron, 255 
Hall, E., 115 
Hall, M., 153 
Halle, Sir C., 194 
Hamilton, Edwin, 96, 97 
Hamilton, H., 69, 166, 177, 

244 

Hammerstein, 200 

Hampton, H., 226 

Harcourt, Lottie, 58 

Harcourt, Sidney, 142 

Hare, Sir John, 258 

Harmsworth, Alfred, 185 

Harrington, Jimmy, 160, 
163, 164 

Harris, C., 112 

Harris, F., 99 

Harris, J., 25, 27 

Harris, Sir A., 86, 88, m- 
114, 115, 116-119, 120- 
128, 129, 130, 131, 132, 
I33-I35 136, 138, 139, 
143, 147, 152, 170, 172, 

175, 191, 195, 201, 202, 

203, 207, 219, 230, 238, 
243, 244, 245, 258 



Hart, L., 107 
Hart, W. M., 121 
Hawkes, O., 181 
Hawkins, Justice, 38, 39 
Hawtrey, C., 36, 66, 72, 88, 

94 

Hays, A., 177 
Headfort, Marquis of, 255 
Hedmondt, 208 
Henderson, A., 62, 65, 68, 

174, 175, 177 
Herman, Hy., 37, 228 
Hersee, Rose, 209 
Herve, 70, 174, 236 
Hicks, Seymour, 149, 176 
Hill, Jenny, 239 
Hinds, Aubrey, 63 
Kitchens, H. J., 70, 231, 

234 

Kitchens, R. S., 98 
Hogarth, W., 72 
Hogg, Sir J., 196, 197 
Hollander, Max, 243, 244 
Hollingshead, J., 69, 77, 

237 

Hollm.an, 88 
Hopwood, 182 
Homer, Fred., 136, 137 
Howson, J., 72 
Huddleston, Jessie, 208 
Hughes, F., 89 
Hugo, Victor, 50-52 
Humphreys, Sir J., 199 
Huntingdon, Sir Charles, 

255 
Hyde, W., 194 



Irving, Henry, 25, 26, 57, 

125, 134, 148, 149 
Isaacs, Sir H., 217 
Ives, A. Chester, 102, 103 



James, David, 81 
Jervis, 177 



INDEX 



283 



Jeune, Sir Francis, 30 
" Jim," Dr. Jameson, 48 
Jones, H. A., 163, 220 
Jones, Kennedy, 103, 104, 

185, 186 
Jones, Sidney, 140, 141, 

IQI 



K 

Keans, C., 258 
Keene, Archie, 92 
Kelly, Miss, 34 
Kemble, 258 
Kerr, Fred., 92 
Kilmorey, Lord, 179 
King, F. C-, 57 
Kiralfy, Imre and Bolossy, 

241 
Knowles, Alex., 98 



Labouchere, 103 
Lago, 202 
Langley, C., 58 
Latham, F. G., 114, 115 
Lauder, H., 212 
Laverne, Pattie, 177 
Lawler, K., 92 
Lawrence, Boyle, 103, 131 
Le Sage, J. M., 31 
Leamar, Sisters, 93, 237, 

255 

Ledger, E., 134 
Leggatt, S., 191 
Leigh, H. S., 8r 
Leno, Dan, 85, 86, 147-152, 

161, 247 

Leslie, Fannie, 60 
Leslie, H. J., 66, 190 
Levilly, C. P., 87 
Lewis, S., 74, 178, 232 
Lewis, Sir G., 81-83, 97, 

107 

Leybourne, G., 236 
Lind, Algernon, 101 
Lind, Betty, 63 



Lindo, R. H., 270, 271 
Lingard, A., 236 
Lingard, H., 177, 178, 236 
Lipski, 101, 102 
Lloyd, M., 247 
Londesborough, Earl, 183 
Lonnen, E. J., 99 
Lorraine, Sisters, 56 
Loveday, E., 95 
Loveday, H. J., 95 
Lowell, M., 146 
Lowenfeld, H., 53, 86 
Lowther, Claude, 230 
Lucas, Seymour, 271, 272 
Luceida, La Belle, 76 
Ludwig, W.j 209 
Lytton, Lord, 268 

M 

Maas, Joseph, 209 
MacCabe, Cardinal, 18, 20, 

26 

MacCarthy, Sergt., 19 
Macdermot, 89 
MacKenzie, Morell, 199, 

262 
Mancinelli, Luigi, 169, 170, 

172, 207 
Manners, Ch., 177, 193, 

194, 202, 207, 208 
Manns, August, 172, 193 
Mansel, Bros., 81, 174 
Mansel, Dick, 37, 61, 63 
Mansfield, R., 69, 231 
Maple, Blundell, 75 
Maple and Co., 270 
Mapleson, 22, 24, 25, 130, 

171, 194, 196, 198, 199, 

200, 202, 203, 207, 235, 

236, 240 
Mario, 203 
Mars, G., 212 
Marston, H. E., 58 
Martin, J., 19 
Mary of Teck, Princess, 

68 

Mascagni, 119, 123, 124 
Massey, 51 
Mathison, A., 81 



284 



INDEX 



Matthews, Henry, 101 
Matthews, Sir C., 219 
Maud, Princess, 149 
May, Phil, 88, 92 
Maybrick, Michael, 88 
McCarthy, J. H., 98, 113 
McCleery, R., 270, 272 
Melba, 119, 120, 137, 195, 

232 

Melville, Andrew, 105, 224 
Melville, G., 224 
Messager, Andre, 178 
Middleton, Sir G., 199 
Miska, Madame, 255 
Mitchell, J., 19 
Monckt9n, Lionel, 71, 275 
Mongini, 203 
Moody, F., 202, 207 
Moore, Augustus, 216 
Moore, G. H., 45 
Moore, G. W., 45, 57, 62, 

63,98 

Moore, G. and A., 81, 97 
Moore, H., 79 
Moore, Mary, 26 
Moore, Thos., 30 
Moore and Burgess, 188 
Morgan, Wilfred, 22 
Mortimer, J., 70, 88 
Morton, C., 113, 235, 244 
Murray, Tom, 58, 59 
Musgrove, G., 146 



N 

Nagle, A., 66 
Neck, Frank, 136 
Nethersole, O., 109 
Netter, A., 243 
Neville, Henry, 173 
Newcastle, Duke of, 232 
Newton, Lord, 67 
Newton, Miss A., 26 
Nichqlls, Harry, 114 
Nicolini, 254 
Nicols, D., 241 
Nilsson, 203 
Nugent, Colonel, 67 



O 



O'Brien, W., 29 
O'Connor, T. P., 103, 153, 

218 

Odell, E. J., 81 
O'Donohue, 45 
O'Grady, H., 183 
O'Hagan, H. O., 70, 206, 

241 

O'Hea, J. F., 97 
Olitzka, Madame, 202 
O'Mahony, 42 
O'Mara, 170, 202 
Orkney, Earl of, 255 
Orme, D., 255 
O'Shea, Captain, 107 



Packard, F. C., 209 
Paget, Lord A., 70, 75, 199 
Parnell, Chas., 30, 97 
Patti, Madame, 119, 203, 

253 

Paulett, Earl, 255 
Paulus, 192 
Peel, Sir Robert, 77 
Pegge, W. M., 99 
Pelissier, H. G., 211, 212, 

213, 214 

Penley, W. S-, 66 
Penruddock, Mrs., 221 
Perier, Casimir, 119 
Perren, Geo., 22 
Pettit, H., 88, 114, 190, 

219, 229 

Pfeiffer, Miss, 50, 51 
Phillips, F. C-, 37, 61, 63, 

81 

Piccioli, Madame, 112 
Piggott, 36, 37, 39 
Pigott, Richard, 96, 97 
Planquette, R., 61, 92 
Plant, G. W. 3 61 
Polden, E-, 244 
Potter, S., 184 
Powell, Mr., 177 
Pyne and Harrison, 193 



INDEX 



285 



Queensberry, Marquis of, 

60 
Quilter, Morris and Tod- 

heatly, 199 



R 

Raleigh, Cecil, 113, 166, 

243, 244 

Randall, Harry, 146 
Ravogli, Sisters, 202 
Reece, Robert, 175, 177 
Rehan, Ada f 166 
Rendle, Frank, 121, 144 
Rhodes, Colonel, 48 
Rice, C., 230 
Richter, Hans, 88, 195 
Ricordi, 121 
Rignold, L., 58 
Riley, J., 26 
Rising, W. S., 177 
Rita. Pauline, 177 
Riviere, 89, 181, 183 
Roberts, A., 31, 70, 236 
Roberts, Crompton, 67 
Robertson, T. W., 227 
Robinson, Anna, 255 
Rochef9rt, Henri, 88 
Romani, 91, 93 
Ronald, Landon, 172, 193, 

iQ4 

Roselle, Amy, 246 
Rosslyn, Earl, 255 
Runciman, J., 98 
Russel, Sir Charles, 107 
Russell, Henry, 173 
Russell, Lilian, 65, 68 
Ryan, Katie, 58 



Sadleir, 45 
Sala, G. A., 243 
Salisbury, Lord, 105 
Sampson, Henry, 134, 219 
Sankey, 189 



Santley, Sir Charles, 236 
" Sara, Mademoiselle," 241 
Saxe Coburg, Duke of, 119 
Schmid, Adolph, 171 
Schneider, 27, 28 
Scott, Clement, 68, 96, 98, 

107, 135, 192, 228, 229, 

239, 244 
Sembrich, 119 
Seppilli, 121, 122 
Sexton, Tom, 29, 30, 96 
Seymour, Mr., 237 
Shaw, G. Bernard, 98, 133 
Simpson, H., 181 
Sims, G. R., 88, 219, 225 
Sinclair, Delia, 255 
Sinico, 23, 47, in, 203 
Smith, Bruce, 96 
Smith, E. T., 135, 152, 184 
Smith, Sydney, 271 
Smith, W. H., 39, 40, I79 

196 
Soldene, Emily, 171, 177, 

236 
Solomon, Bower, Fred, and 

Charlie, 64, 65 
Solomon, E., 64, 65, 67, 68, 

69, 70, gi, 175, 190, 205 
Stanley, Alma, 66, 152, 203 
Stanley, Charles, 210 
Stead, W. T., 101 
Stephano, Bros., 88 
Stephens, H. P., 69, 91 
Stephens, James, 42, 43, 48 
Stephenson, B. C., 91, 92, 

234 

Stevens, Victor, 136 
Stevenson, Robert Louis, 

234 

Stewart, Nellie, 145, 146 
St. John, Florence, 177 
Stone, Amelia, 146 
Storey, Fred., 93, 255 
Storey, Sylvia, 255 
Stratton, Eugene, 188 
Stuart, Leslie, 185 
Sturgess, A., 54, 131, 221 
Sullivan, A., 65, 67, 89, 

175, 180, 185, 186, 244 
Sullivan, Barry, 25, 57 



286 



INDEX 



fullivan, Charles, 183, 184 
utton, H., 66 
Sykes, C., 170 



Tamagno, 124 
Taylor, J., 126, 130 
Tempest, M., 66, 190 
Ternss, William, 81, 219 
Tester, Dolly, 255 
Tetrazzini, 195, 206 
Thorne, T., 26 
Tietjens, 18, 22, 23, 47, 236 
Tildsley, 76 
Toole, J., 57. ni 

T-> 1 YTT ' ^* 

1 owle, W., 212-214 
Tracy, Louis, 104 
Trebelli, 22, 23, 203 
Tree, Sir H. B., 107, 164, 
171 

V 

Van Biene, 178 
Vanloo, A., 177 
Vaughan, K., 68, 75 
Vaughan, Sir James, 90 
Vert, N., 88 
Viardots, 203 
Vizzani, 23 

Vokes Family, 129, 139 
Von Bulow, 165 
Voules, H., 103 

W 

Wadman, Tilly, 177 
Wagner, 194 



Walkley, A. B., 98, 138 
Ward, Dudley, 76 
Warden, J., 92 
Webster, ig6 
Webster, Sir A., 67 
Welch, Miss Kemp, 272 
Whistler, J., 100 
White, 39, 40, 88 
Wigram, Colonel, 67, 68 
Wilcocks, 184 
Wilde, Lady, 33-35 
Wilde, Oscar, 30, 31. 33 
Wilde, Sir W., 30, 35-37 
Wilde, W., 30-32 
Williams, B., 57 
Williams, C., 98, 189, 236 
Wilmot, C., 90 
Wilson, Harry, 81, 93, 219 
Wimperis, A., 212 
Wood, Mrs. John, 145 
Wood, Sir Henry J., 193 
Wortham, General Hale, 

66 

Wren, Sir Christopher, 258 
Wright, W., 243 
Wyndham, Charles, 65, 

126, 134, 258 
Wyndham, R. H., 59 



Yohe, May, 170, 193 



Zola, E., 49 



PRINTED AT 

THE NORTHUMBERLAND PRESS, 

THORNTON STREET, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNK 



'.J . ; '. i ,." , \O i i I O .'' i O , I w i i i U 



63 80s 



