Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



3 



r 



MUSIC LIBRARY 



HARVARD COLLEGE 
LIBRARY 



DATE DUE 



5NJT'b 




4rii,)m 




■w^ 



liUSA 



RECOLLECTIONS OF 
AN OLD MLISICLAN 



Ni.W YiiKK 
. r. hlJTTON S; COMI'ANY 



RECOLLECTIONS OF 
AN OLD MUSICIAN 



THOMAS RYAN 



NEW YORK 
E. P. DUTTON & COMPANY 

31 West Twentj-thwd Street 



Max 490o,icr 



R^ 



HARVARD 

UNIVERSITY 

LIBRARY 

JAN 31 iat)t) 



jj 



'2j 
h 
ill 



5 



DEDICATION 

My dear Mr. Brown : 

Old friendship alone would warrant me in asking you 
to stand godfather to this collection of musical memories, 
yet the appropriateness of dedicating it to you is self- 
evident, while it gives me great personal satbfaction. 

Most of us, or the best of us, may have done fairly well 
as workers in Boston's musical vineyard, yet it will be 
found that our labors have produced but ephemeral 
results in comparison with yours. 

Not only have you, for many years, been a participator 
in forming musical societies, to lay the foundations of a 
healthy art growth, but a rare foresight impelled you to 
devote your time, means, and energies to the acquire- 
ment of everything relating to music, — its history, its 
vast literature, and its complete or reduced scores of any 
value from the earliest compositions to those of to-day. 
Your collection may fairly be called stupendous; it is a 
monument to your industry and discrimination. 

Having gathered it, you presented this remarkable 
collection to the citizens of Boston, to form a part of the 
great stores of learning in the Public Library, and to 
be forever free to students of music and seekers after 
musical knowledge. I believe that this act has ennobled 
you in the eyes of every thoughtful citizen. 

As a musician, who foresees the benefits to flow for all 
future time from your generous and invaluable gift, I 
beg to assure you of my individual appreciation; and I 
hope to remain, as ever. 

Your friend and fellow-worker, 

Thomas Ryan. 

To Allbn T. Brown, Esquire, 
Boston, Man. 

iii 



•--. *.. 



PREFACE 

RETROSPECTION is the inheritance of 
mature age. We all love to recall the 
scenes of the past and the companions of our 
pleasures or sorrows. I often order memory 
to unroll slowly before my mental vision the 
panorama of my past life. Upon some of the 
scenes I look with a strong desire to chain 
the wheels that move them from view, but with 
others those wheels cannot turn too quickly. 

The first picture I call up stands out clearly 
defined. I see myself as a boy again, landing 
on America's shore, with the pleasures of hope 
shining in my eyes, — for a good fairy has 
touched the new land with her magic wand, and 
every object I look upon is strangely beautiful. 

The same good fairy leads me up State 
Street and Court ^Street in Boston, and, wan- 
dering aimlessly and boylike, I follow up the 
hill into Pemberton Square. I stand there 
and look round at the solid, comfortable, 
stately mansions of old Boston's aristocracy, 
and possibly I feel my own insignificance. I 



/ 



vi Preface 

get my first glimpse of American female 
beauty, for, looking into one of the long win- 
dows which reach to the parlor floor, I see a 
charming girl rocking back and forth in a kind 
of chair which is totally new to my young 
eyes. I am fascinated, fairly entranced, and 
doubtless gaping wonder is expressed in my 
countenance. 

It is just fifty years since that trivial event 
happened, and yet — so wondrously are we 
made !— in the twinkling of an eye memory 
gives back the picture perfect in every detail — 
and just as rapidly will change it for another. 

In moments of quiet abstraction I thus call 
up and dwell on every past event from boy- 
hood to the present. I begin perhaps with 
sailing on the ship, my landing, my first theatre 
employment; I pass on to the formation of 
the Quintette Club and its first concert in 
Boston, the Jenny Lind visit, the various or- 
chestral experiences, the opening of the Boston 
Music Hall, our club's first trips out of New 
England and to the West, my first sight of 
great Chicago, romantic California, Honolulu, 
New Zealand and the other Australian colonies, 
the return to glorious America, the year with 
Madame Nilsson — and so on and on till all 
seems on a dead level of monotony ; and yet 



Preface vii 

It has been as eventful as most men's lives are 
when devoid of the heroic or the tragic. 

This conjuring up of life's past events before 
the mind's eye is familiar to all thoughtful per- 
sons, but it is a half-dreaming habit and enter- 
tains the dreamer only. I hope that it will 
not be thought that I have rashly undertaken 
the task of making my dreamy recollections 
interesting to other people; I think there 
must be many who would like to know how we 
of the earlier musical force worked, and what 
kind of an environment we had fifty years ago. 
If I succeed in interesting my readers in my 
recollections, I shall be amply repaid for the 
labor of jotting them down. 

T. R. 

Boston, March, 1899. 



CONTENTS 



Chapter I 

PAGB 

Boyhood — Musical Training — Violin Episode — Sailing for 
America — Friends Aboard — ^Arrival — First Impressions of 
Boston — ^Theatre Engagement i 

Chapter II 

The American Atmosphere — The Adelphi — John Brougham 
—The Howard Theatre— The Matrimonial ^aA^— Stock 
Companies — Mr. and Mrs. Seguin — Musical Education . ii 

Chapter III 

Father Streeter*s Church and Stories — ^Junius Brutus Booth — 
A Stage Combat — Incidents of the Stage — The Viennoise 
Children 90 

Chapter IV 

Henry Herz, Pianist — Sivori at Home — ^Paganini's Violin — 
The Havana Opera Troupe — ^Arditi and his Admirer — 
Marti, Pirate, Fish Dealer, and Opera Manager . . 31 

Chapter V 

The Boston Academy of Music — Its Aims — Rehearsal of Mid- 
summer Nighfs Dream Overture — The Germania Associ- 
ation — ^Programme of its First Concert in Boston . 43 

ix 



X Contents 

Chapter VI 

PAGB 

Local Societies-— The Musical Fund— The Melodeon— ** Old 
Tom Comer" — His Financial Appeal — Haydn's ** Fare- 
well Symphony" 49 

Chapter VII 

Steyermark Orchestra — Francis Riha — Lombardi Orchestra — 
Saxonia Orchestra — Germania Musical Association — 
William Schultze — Carl Bergman and his Up Broctdway 
— First Public Rehearsals — Typical Programme 56 

Chapter VIII 

Influx of Musicians — Gungl Orchestra — Jullien the Conductor 
— His Versatility — His Character and History — His Per- 
formance of Night in Crystal Palace, New York . . 65 

Chapter IX 

The Handel and Haydn Society — Mr. John L. Hatton — Mr. 
Charles C. Perkins — Carl Zerrahn — Dr. J. C. Upham — 
The ** War Secretaries" — ^B. J. Lang — Margaret Ruthven 
Lang 76 



Chapter X 

Ole Bull— 7*>i/ Arkansas Traveller—Jvihus Eichberg— The 

Boston Conservatory of Music 88 



Chapter XI 

Mendelssohn Quintette Club— First Public Concert — Lyceum 
Lectures and Professor Agassiz — Yankee Singing-Schools 
and Musical Conventions — Home-bred Talent ... 92 



Contents xi 

Chapter XII 

PAGE 

Annie Louise Gary — The Orchestral Union — The Harvard 
Musical Association — The Boston Sjrmphony Orchestra — 
Mr. John Bigelow — Mendelssohn Quintette Club Mem-, 
bers loi 



Chapter XIII 

Mr. Jonas Chickering — The White Linen Apron — Upright, 
Square, Grand Man — Thomas Power — Rufus Choate*s 
Chirography — Invitation Concert io8 



Chapter XIV 

Lowell Mason — Oliver Ditson — ^An Accident — ^John Sebastian 
Dwight — Dwight's Journal of Music — Musical Conserve^ 
tism 115 



Chapter XV 

Mendelssohn Birthday Festival in 185 1 — Newspaper Notices 
— ^Youthful Enthusiasm — Beethoven Centenary Commemo- 
ration 123 



Chapter XVI 

Jenny Lind — Her History — How a Poor Boy Earned his Ticket 
— ^An Advertising Dodge — ^Jules Benedict — Belletti — Otto 
Goldschmidt — Daniel Webster's Bow — Concert in Fitch- 
burg Depot — ^Jenny Lind at Northampton . . . 128 



Chapter XVII 

Catherine Hays — Madame Sontag — Carl Eckert — Paul Jullien, 

the Boy Violinist — Alboni — Hector Berlioz . . . 144 



xii Contents 

Chapter XVIII 

PAGB 

William Lloyd Garrison — Mrs. Garrison — Theodore Parker — 
Thomas Starr King— Collaboration with Oliver Wendell 
Holmes — ^National Hymns 148 

Chapter XIX 

Changes of the Quintette Club— William Schultze— S. Jacob- 
sohn — Playing for a Sick Man — Schubert's Swan Son^~^ 
"Death and the Maiden" 155 



Chapter XX 

Trips to Philadelphia, Baltimore, Washington — The Washing, 
ton Editor— A Musical Criticism— Going West— Elliot's 
Advertising Feat — ^A Partnership Poster .... 162 



Chapter XXI 

The National College of Music— The Boston Fire— The Lady 
Lecturer — Travelling Tales — The Young Men's Society — 
Statuettes Metamorphosed 172 



Chapter XXII 

The Peace Jubilees — Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore — The Province 
House — Parepa^Rosa — Drilling Choristers in New Eng- 
land—The ** Anvil Chorus" — Programme of First Jubilee 
Concert 185 



Chapter XXIII 

The Second Jubilee — ^Foreign Bands — Political Antagonisms 
and Musical Rivalry — Madame Pescha Leutner — Madame 
Rudersdorf — ^Johann Strauss 198 



Contents xiii 

Chapter XXIV 

PAGB 

Wieniawski— 'His Style of Playing — Rabinstein— A Musical 

Eyening— A Visit to the Kitchen 204 

Chapter XXV 

Trip to California — ^From Snowdrifts to Roses — To Australia 
— Concert at Sydney, New South Wales — Brisbane, 
Queensland — Natives and their Characteristics— Marybor- 
ough and Gympie— A Smoking Audience . 210 

Chapter XXVI 

Tasnumia — Hobart, the Capital — Ascent of Mount Wellington 

— ^Lannceston — ^A Paganini Souvenir— Volunteer Settlers, 290 

Chapter XXVII 

Return to Sydney — ^An Unexpected Encounter — ^A Sad Story 
— Farewell Concert — To Melbourne — ^Julius Siede — To 
Adelaide, South Australia — ^Wellington, Capital of New 
Zealand — Dr. Hector and the Mountain Lake — The 
Maoris— Concert at Honolulu — Teresa Carrefio . . 227 

Chapter XXVIII 

Christine Nilsson — Her Genial Character — ^A Christmas Eve 

Surprise— Otto Hegner, Boy Pianist .... 242 

Chapter XXIX 

Incidents and Happenings — Indian Auditors — ^Bird Imitation 
—Noisy Exit at Topeka— Hardships of Travel— The 
Prairie Schooner— Sleighing under Difficulties — Printers' 
Pranks , , 247 



xiv Contents 

Chapter XXX 

PACT 

Some New England Musicians — ^J. C. D. Parker — ^J. K. Paine 

^Emst Perabo— Arthur Foote — George Sumner . • 259 

Chapter XXXI 

Soldiers' Home at Milwaukee — ^Saluting the Stars and Stripes 

—A Later Visit—" Bully for the Dutch " ... 266 

Chapter XXXII 

Joachim the Violinist — Matinde bei yoachim — Berlin High 

School of Music — Playing of Pupils — ^Americans — L'Envoi, 271 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



PAGB 

Thomas Ryan .... Frontispiece 

The Ryan Homb i 

John Brougham and McCullough . . .12 

Charlotte Cushman 20 

AuGUSTE Fries 26 

SivoRi 32 

Allen T. Brown 38 

George James Webb .•••.. 46 

William Schultze .••••• 58 

Marie Barna .••••.. 66 

Fritz Giese . . . • • • • 7^ 

Carl Zerrahn ••••••• 80 

B. J. LfANG .••••••• 84 

Ole Bull 90 

Mendelssohn Quintette Club, 1849 . • 94 

Annie Louise Cary 10 1 

John Bigelow 104 

Jonas Chickering • • • • • .no 

Lowell Mason . . . . . . .112 

Oliver Ditson 116 



xvi List of Illustrations 

FAGB 

John S. D¥aGHT 120 

Fsux Bartholdy Mendelssohn . . .126 

Anton Hekking 132 

WuLF Fries 136 

Jenny Lind 140 

William Lloyd Garrison 148 

Mrs. Garrison 152 

Rudolph Hennig 158 

Camille Urso 164 

D. H. Elliot 170 

Margaret Ruthven Lang .... 178 

Patrick S. Gilmore 186 

Parepa-Rosa 192 

JOHANN Strauss 200 

Henri Wieniawski 204 

Anton Rubinstein 206 

The Club that Went to Australia, 1881, . 212 

Hob art, Tasmania 220 

Fern Trees near Invercargill . . . 233 

Adelaide, South Australia .... 233 

DuNEDiN, New Zealand 234 

LiLA JuEL 238 

Christine Nilsson 242 

Otto Hegner and his Father . . . 248 

George W. Sumner 262 

The Mendelssohn Quintette Club , . 266 



RECOLLECTIONS OF AN 
OLD MUSICIAN 



CHAPTER I 

THE old musician who presents these re- 
collections to the reader believes that 
there are a goodly number of old-time friends, 
those who lived in the " fifties," who will share 
his pleasure in recalling local history of musical 
and theatrical life. 

As a participator in most of the occurrences 
here detailed, I claim the privilege of writing 
in the first person, and of introducing myself 
by a few pages of autobiography. I hope . 
to be credited with modesty ; and I will inflict 
only a small section of my personal history on 
the reader. I would not do even that were it 
not that I can fairly be considered a type of the 
average professional musician. Moved by the 
same feeling that makes us watch the growth 
of a tender young plant with interest, we follow 



2 Recollections of an Old Musician 

with no less interest the growth of the human 
plant, we try to find out its origin and what has 
been its environment ; knowing that, we make 
deductions which become part of our stock of 
knowledge. 

One fact is quickly recognized ; namely, that 
the musician who, with enthusiasm and love 
for the art, works his way to the front, generally 
comes from the class in which poverty and 
struggle are born twins, and are ever wrestling 
with each other ; and the persistent wrestler is 
the one who inevitably overcomes his twin 
brother, and leaves him behind in the ranks of 
the lazy and the slothful. 

My father was a soldier in the English army. 
He was a passionate lover of music and played 
the flute respectably. I naturally infer that I 
inherited from him my musical temperament 
I began to study the flute when I was about 
nine years old. My father did not own a 
beginner's book for the instrument, and a 
friend loaned me one. On a certain Christmas 
morning I was given a sixpence. With that 
Fortunatus-gift I trudged three miles from our 
fort into the town of Kinsale, Ireland, and 
bought twelve sheets of music-paper, on which 
I copied the entire instruction book, exercises 
and all, from cover to cover. It is a trifling 



Recollections of an Old Musician 3 

bit of history, but shows me conclusively that 
I was made of the right stuff. I think it is 
not often recorded that a boy of nine spends 
his Christmas-gift money to purchase paper in 
order to copy an instruction book 

What would I not give now to possess that 
copy ! None of us as boys realize how highly we 
shall prize certain things which were fashioned 
by our own hands when we were little fellows. 
We do not foresee the time when some of 
these trifles will be counted among our dearest 
treasures. 

Until I was ten years old I practically had 
heard no music, for my father's regiment was 
away on foreign service with its band. A little 
later, to my great delight, a regiment with a 
complete band came to our post I was on 
the watch for their first rehearsal ; I begged 
father to take me to it. He and I entered the 
room just as the band was beginning to play the 
overture to Fra Dtavolo. The drum solo 
with which it begins transfixed me, but when 
the trumpet solo at the opening allegro began, 
I screamed with delight and father had to 
put his hand over my mouth to keep me from 
disturbing the musicians. It is safe to say 
that a certain little boy was present every 
time that band played. 



4 Recollections of an Old Musician 

When I was fourteen years old, father's reg- 
iment returned to England. The band was 
good, thanks to its skilful master. From that 
time on I had fairly good and regular training 
in music. I was placed under the band-mas- 
ter's care, who became a kind of second father to 
me, and helped me in my ambitious desire to 
study all the band instruments, but kept me 
mainly on the clarinet. When I was sixteen 
years old, I was made to feel very proud by 
being invited to play second clarinet in the 
Anacreontic Society of Belfast, Ireland This 
was my first playing with anything like a 
symphony orchestra. The immediate result 
was to inspire me with an unconquerable de- 
sire to study the violin. An incident in con- 
nection therewith is perhaps worth recording. 

Strolling one day in Belfast, I saw in a 
pawn-shop window an old violin with a hand- 
some carved head, and, boylike, I desired to 
own it. I stepped into the shop and inquired 
the price. It was one guinea. I had in my 
pocket just ten shillings, which I handed over 
to the shopkeeper, who gave me a written 
guaranty that he would hold the violin till I 
paid him the balance of the money. I went 
at once to my music-master, told him I needed 
eleven shillings to buy something not to be 



Recollections of an Old Musician 5 

mentioned, got the money, bought the violin, 
carried it to my teacher, and told him I wanted 
to learn to play the instrument He was very 
much pleased, examined the instrument, said 
it was not of much value, but if I really wanted 
to study the violin I could use his. This was 
a valuable instrument that had been in the 
family for two generations. He paid me back 
my ten shillings, fitted me out with violin, bow, 
and the unfailing Kreutzer Method^ and gave 
me lessons for about eighteen months, till the 
regiment was ordered to leave England again 
for foreign service. We then had to part 
company. I returned the violin, said good-bye 
to my dear friend and music-teacher, made a 
short farewell visit to my family, went to Liver- 
pool, and took passage in a sailing-ship for 
Boston. 

Before going farther with my history, I must 
say a little more about that violin. About 
thirty years ago our Quintette Club was en- 
gaged for a concert in Montreal. In the con- 
cert room some members of my family, who 
were travelling with us, noticed in the audi- 
ence an old gentleman of very dignified ap- 
pearance, who seemed entirely engrossed with 
the music ; when it was my turn to come for- 
ward and play a clarinet solo he almost rose 



6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

to his feet ; and while I was playing his hand- 
kerchief was in constant use, for tears were 
running down his cheeks. As soon as the last 
note of my piece was sounded, the gentleman 
jumped up, rushed towards the stage, met me 
face to face, and throwing his arms about me 
just as I recognized him, he exclaimed, " Tom, 
my boy ! " — and I beheld once more my dear 
old friend and music master. He had recently 
been stationed in Montreal, and seeing my 
name in the announcement of the concert, had 
been to the hotel to find me ; but as our party 
was late in arriving, he had to wait until the 
evening before he could see me. 

After the concert I went home with him, for 
we had a thousand things to say to each other. 
On entering the parlor, there on a centre table 
lay the old violin with the carved head that I 
had bought in the pawn-shop in Belfast, Ire- 
land I examined it, and saw that it was worth 
very little from a money point of view, but it 
possessed for me an inestimable sentimental 
value. I said to my old friend, " I must have 
that violin." 

"No, Tom, you cannot," he answered ; 
"for in all my wanderings since you parted 
from me, it has generally been the first thing I 
unpacked. I will tell you, though, what you 



Recollections of an Old Musician 7 

can have ; I will give you the old family violin, 
the one on which you began to study." 

Naturally, I was very much affected by so 
generous an act In vain I offered to pay him 
for the instrument ; he would not listen. We 
passed a couple of delightful hours in relating 
our happenings; and I had the pleasure of 
seeing my old friend many times thereafter ere 
he passed away to join the good people in 
Paradise. 

I have the violin now, and must relate an- 
other event in its history. At one period it 
needed some repairs, and I gave it into the 
hands of the well-known Mr. Warren White, 
who had a store and repair-shop in the Tremont 
Temple. When the instrument was repaired 
I had it well packed in paper, and a tag with 
my name attached to it I then handed it to 
the storekeeper with the request that he would 
put it in a safe place while I did some errands. 
I saw him push it into a sort of pigeon-hole 
under the front shop-window ; then the transac- 
tion passed from my mind. Some months 
later, needing the violin, I opened the case, 
and was horrified to find it empty. Every 
member of my family could recall the fact of 
my taking the violin away to be repaired, but 
knew nothing further. I remembered getting 



8 Recollections of an Old Musician 

it from Mr. White, and that was all. I came 
to the conclusion that I had left it somewhere 
while attending to my errands, and mourned 
sincerely the loss of the instrument. 

Nearly a year from that time I received no- 
tice from Mr. White that he was moving to 
another store, and that a violin tagged with 
my name had been found in one of the pigeon- 
holes under his store window. I went with 
great glee, re-found my old friend, and carried 
it home in triumph. 

To return to my personal history: While 
on the voyage to Boston, there was very little 
to interest me outside of my own thoughts. 
The passengers on a sailing-vessel in those 
days were not very congenial, and I, — a rather 
shy boy of seventeen, — though full of curiosity 
about the new home before me, and of enthu- 
siasm for the profession which was to be my 
life-work, felt a depressing sense of isolation. 

A six weeks' voyage, however, usually brings 
people together who otherwise would never 
know or care for each other. It happened 
that my practice on the clarinet in my state- 
room was overheard by some Western people, 
who became interested, and soon began to like 
to talk with me. Their kind words quite won 
my heart, for the homesick ** all-alone-in-the 



Recollections of an Old Musician 9 

world" feeling had taken possession of me, 
and I was in the mood to welcome friendly 
advances. These good people tried to induce 
me to go West, but I had determined to make 
Boston my home, and would not abandon the 
idea Yet often my heart reached out to these 
friends, and in after years when I met them 
again and again I found them always staunch 
and true. 

I think I shall never forget my first sight of the 
city which has been my home for so many years, 
— it was rapture. Early morning was just dawn- 
ing when we made Boston Light The rising 
sun was shedding its rosy beams on the dome 
of the State House. The splendid bay and 
harbor, the picturesque, pleasant homes on the 
shores, seemed so beautiful in the clear early 
summer atmosphere that it was just like fairy- 
land to me — the sanguine boy of seventeen and 
a half years old, who was so soon to try a new 
life. I was full of faith that everything and 
every face was to smile on me — and all did 
smile on me, for even when separating from 
my ship friends, who were perhaps the first 
Americans I had ever met, I had their parting 
benedictions to go with and sustain me for the 
first few days spent in seeking an engagement. 

On the third day from landing, in May, 



lo Recollections of an Old Musician 

1845, I was duly engaged as flautist at the 
Washington Street Theatre, at the very re- 
spectable salary of seven dollars per week. Mr. 
William B. English was the manager. The 
theatre was on the corner of Winter and Wash- 
ington streets, over Lee's saloon, now Tuttle's 
shoe store. 



CHAPTER II 

THERE was, and is to-day, an indescribable 
something in the atmosphere of America 
which gives to the stranger the impression that 
every one is happy, prosperous, and having a 
good picnic-like time ; while in Europe a more 
serious and depressing atmosphere exists. I 
remember distinctly how jubilant the new life 
and new country made me, and how happy I 
was to earn so much money and amuse myself 
evenings by playing in a pretty theatre. The 
idea of its being labor did not occur to me. 

The only souvenirs that I have of that first 
summer are the little comedies brought out by 
Mr. English, and his melodrama of Rosina 
Meadows, which first saw light in that little 
theatre, and had a great run for several years. 
The two Chapman brothers were very clever, 
funny people, and were inimitable in the cele- 
brated Mrs. Caudle's Curtain Lectures, written 
by Douglas Jerrold for Punch (to which he 
was a principal contributor), and prepared for 
the stage by some witty playwright. We had 
also the well-known Mrs. Drake and her 

zx 



12 Recollections of an Old Musician 

daughter, — ^the latter a beautiful girl and a 
wonderful soubrette, who afterward married 
Harry Chapman. "Gentleman Fenno" was 
the leading man. 

The indulgent reader will permit me to relate 
here an experience I passed through last win- 
ter, while the opera was at the Boston Theatre, 
which affected me strongly. I was strolling 
in the corridor between the acts, my eyes idly 
scanning the old play-bills which hang on the 
walls, when — lo and behold ! — there hangs a 
play-bill of the little Washington Street Thea- 
tre, a programme of a night in July, 1845. 1 
stand transfixed. All the old names and pieces 
recall the scene to memory so vividly that I am 
again the youth of seventeen years, breathing 
the romantic atmosphere in which I then lived. 
It positively unfitted me for enjoying the rest 
of the evening. Henceforward I know there 
is a spot in the corridor which has a special 
attraction for me. 

In the autumn of 1845 Mr. English moved 
his dramatic company to a small theatre on 
Court Street, the stage end of which looked 
into Cornhill, and the auditorium reached to 
Brattle Street, — ^all on the second story of 
the building. The dramatic company com- 
prised many people of genius in their special- 



JOHN BROUQHAM AND McCULLOUQH. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 13 

ties, including the inimitable John Brougham 
and his wife; Chanfrau, who was even then 
famous in his rdle of " Mose, the Volunteer 
Fireman " ; Mr. and Mrs. Bland, the two Chap- 
mans, Chippendale, and Miss Drake. The 
theatre was called the Adelphi. Its main line 
of work was musical extravaganza. John 
Brougham tried most of his pieces in Boston 
long before he moved to New York — ^pieces 
like Pocahontas and Cherry and Fair Star. 
He composed parodies— even on great works 
like Macbeth, — of which there seemed to 
be no end. Everything produced was for fun, 
and Brougham was quite the life and soul of it 
all. He was to me a wonderful man — hand- 
some, good-natured, and ready-witted. 

One night in the course of a piece, he had 
to hide himself in a large old standard clock 
and at a given moment rush out in defence of 
the inevitable young lady in difficulties. Mak- 
ing an incautious rush, he knocked over the 
old clock and sprawled out on the floor. The 
hands of the clock flew near to the feet of 
the stage villain. Brougham, whose ready wit 
never halted, shouted out, " Even the clock 
says, 'Hands off!'" You may imagine the 
roar of laughter which this impromptu sally 
drew from the audience. 



14 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Mrs. Brougham was a handsome, though 
large and over-fleshy woman. According to 
stage history, in her younger days she had 
been an accomplished dancer ; and even now 
she could dance with the atrial agility of a 
Taglioni. She was also a fairly good singer. 
All the others were skilled artists, who had 
been through the training-school of stock com- 
panies. They had one and all been selected 
by Brougham, and were a set of people whose 
counterparts could not be found in this age. 

I played in this little theatre two seasons. 
Then came promotion. I was engaged to 
play in the Howard Atheneum, at the munifi- 
cent salary of nine dollars per week. That 
theatre had just been built on the site of the 
"Second Advent Tabernacle." It was said 
that the builders of the theatre put in the big 
church window in front, in readiness to convert 
the building to church uses in the event of its 
not being successful as a theatre. The " Tab- 
ernacle " was a large wooden bam of a building 
and had for a few years been used for theatre 
and opera, after the religious delusion had ex- 
ploded. One very lucky night it burnt down, 
and then was built the fairly solid Howard 
Atheneum. 

Playing in this new theatre was for me an 



Recollections of an Old Musician 15 

agreeable change. It had, for those days^ 
quite a sizable orchestra. The leader sat fa- 
cing the stage, and was for a long time the only 
first violin. We had but one second violin, 
one viola, one contrabass, no violoncello, one 
flute, two clarinets, one fagott, two horns, a 
trumpet, a trombone, and drums. The kind 
and quality of music played would nowadajrs 
strike one as queer. It consisted of overtures, 
quadrilles, polkas, galops — ^in short, mostly 
dance music. There was a total absence of 
so-called popular music, if we except a few 
quicksteps and marches. There were no char- 
acteristic pieces such as figure on the pro- 
grammes of to-day. 

I well remember the first one we were 
asked to play. It was called the Matrimonial 
Galop. It was of ordinary construction, the 
only reason for its peculiar name being a sud- 
den hold-up, where the drummer or leader, I 
forget which, blew into a little instrument that 
gave out a sound like the cry of a baby. That 
childish noise made the audience roar with de- 
light, and we had to play it nightly. We poor 
musicians suffered ; but one night we had our 
revenge. The usual calls came from the audi- 
ence — they wanted the baby-cry, but did not get 
it The machine crying-baby had vanished — 



1 6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

it could not be found. Consternation reigned 
among those who wanted the people pleased, 
no matter how it was done. We tried to ap- 
pease the audience by playing the galop ; but 
when we came to the spot of spots, and there 
was no realistic baby-cry, but only a base imi- 
tation made on the fiddle, a howl of derision 
and rage went up, equal to anything ever 
heard in a menagerie. The disappointment 
was more than the audience could stand. 

It was a time in the history of our people 
when concessionnaires were allowed to peddle 
apples, oranges, candy, and the like, in the 
upper tiers. The indignant gods of the gallery 
began to pelt us with their apples and oranges, 
and we had to leave the orchestra in a hurry. 
The manager came before the curtain and 
tried to be funny, but a good half-hour was 
spent in waiting for quiet. Finally there was 
a lull in the gale, the curtain rang up, and 
a piece began. What the manager tried to 
say to the audience was that some fellow whose 
baby had died had stolen the machine and 
carried it home to console the poor dejected 
mother ! 

The Howard, of which Mr. Ayling was.the 
manager, had a large stock company. My 
young readers are not to infer from the word 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 7 

'' stock " that a syndicate of capitalists exploited 
the finances of the theatre. It means, in con- 
tradistinction to the present custom of having 
entire companies of players travel from town 
to town, that the theatre had its own regular 
company, and was visited by individual stars, 
such as Booth (the elder), Macready, Char- 
lotte Cushman, E. L. Davenport, Cora Mowatt, 
and occasionally a complete opera company, 
like the Seguins, which I think was the only 
opera company then travelling in the United 
States. 

We had also visits from ballet companies, at 
that time very much in vogue. It would 
doubtless be a strange entertainment for the 
present age. Imagine people being now 
asked to spend two or three hours witnessing 
a play in *' dumb show " ; though good panto- 
mimic action, artistic dancing, fine scenery, and 
the best of instrumental music were given. 
Apropos, I may be allowed to state that the 
best composers of the period — mostly French 
— wrote good ballets ; notably Les Wilts, by 
Adolphe Adam, composer of Le Postilion de 
Longjumeau, Le Chdlet, and many other operas. 

Visits from the Seguin Opera Company were 
a delight to me. The performances were up 
to a very creditable standard, the singing being 



1 8 Recollections of an Old Musician 

in English of course. The list included most 
of the operas by Balfe, Wallace, Donizetti, 
Bellini, Auber, Adam, and Boieldieu ; such as 
Masantelloy Fra DzavolOy Crown Diamonds^ La 
BayaderCy La Sonnambula^ The Stranger^ Nor^ 
ma. The Pirate, I Purttant, Lucrezta, Lucta^ 
The Daughter of the Regiment, and La Dame 
Blanche. The only operas with a comic ad- 
mixture were The Barber and the Elixir 
of Love. The educated musician will re- 
cognize all these as almost classic works, and 
our present race of opera singers may well 
take off their hats in acknowledgment of the 
ability of their predecessors. 

Mrs. Seguin, the leading soprano, was a 
genuine musician, a worthy sample of the 
good all-round artist that comes only from 
England. That means one who was put at 
the piano in early life, is at home in all piano 
music, and has studied enough to be a capable 
harmonist The next step was voice build- 
ing, — solfeggio in every shape, individual parts 
in opera and the invaluable oratorio, — each 
being carried on without undue haste. Such 
a person matures with a real respect for music 
as an art Mrs. Seguin was a comely woman 
of fresh rosy English complexion, full of grace 
and vivacity in all her movements, a painstak- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 19 

ing actress, industrious in every detail necessary 
to complete stage preparation, and the life and 
soul of the company, I cannot recall a better 
singer, actress, and musician combined in one 
person. Certainly among our young American 
singers, in whose training everything which 
tends to make a thorough musician is generally 
omitted, not one can be singled out to com- 
pare with Madame Seguin in her prime. 

Mr. Seguin was also a capital singer and a 
remarkably good actor. I think that his 
" Devilshoof " in The Bohemian Girl has never 
been excelled. He had a grand, flexible bass 
voice, together with a fund of humor that made 
his rdles in The Barber and Elixir of Love 
stand out as masterpieces. It is to be under- 
stood that opera bouffe, or the so-called comic 
opera of the present time, was not in existence. 
Musicians may congratulate themselves there- 
on, for thus they escaped the '* topical song " 
infliction and other musical rot of this day. 



CHAPTER III 

1MUST not omit one historic fact, namely, 
— theatres in Boston were not allowed to 
give dramatic or operatic performances on Sat- 
urdays (too near Sunday !), and that gave us 
musicians our freedom ; hence the custom of 
devoting Saturdays to society concerts. I re- 
call another fact : several churches did not 
have organs, so they called in the assistance 
of the ** devil's instruments " — fiddles and cor- 
nets — to help the singers. I played the clari- 
net for two years in Father Streeter's church 
on Hanover Street We had a little orchestra 
composed of a violin (Mr. William Warren), 
clarinet (T. Ryan), contrabass (Mr. Burdett), 
and ophicleide (Mr. Cutting). 

Old Father Streeter was a good story-teller. 
One day he told us that he noticed one of his 
congregation leaning back in his pew and 
sleeping with his mouth open. A sailor in the 
gallery discovered the sleeper and his trap- 
door of a mouth ; took a plug of tobacco out 
of his own mouth, poised it, took aim, and let 

ao 



CHARLOTTE CUSHMAN. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 21 

it drop. It fell into the trap and choked the 
sleeper, who jumped to his feet in sudden 
wakefulness. Another time Father Streeter 
noticed a man with a fiery red head fast asleep, 
and a small boy directly behind him went 
through the motions of a blacksmith heating 
an iron ; he held the imaginary iron close to 
the red hair, carefully turned it, and hammered 
it on his knee. Good Father Streeter with 
much difficulty maintained his gravity. 

The managers of theatres, backed up by our 
worthiest citizens, petitioned the legislature 
many times to permit matinees on Saturday 
afternoons. It was finally granted. That en- 
tering wedge soon opened the way for the 
evening performance, — I think in about 1850. 

I came near being killed one night in the 
Howard. The elder Booth was playing the 
title rdle of Richard the Thirds and was in one 
of his magnificent moods, when, during the 
development of a tragedy, he would become so 
impassioned and exalted that he believed him- 
self to be a real personage in a living drama. 
At such times there was positive danger for 
any one on or near the stage. The " Rich- 
monds " had to be good masters of the sword. 
Booth was of medium size, compact figure, 
strong, and full of nervous force. He had been 



22 Recollections of an Old Musician 

known, in some of his stage fights, to chase his 
antagonist off the stage, around the wings, and 
onto the stage again ; and it required the ut- 
most circumspection on the part of his oppo- 
nent to avoid being killed. 

On the night in question I was in my usual 
place in the orchestra, helping to play the bat- 
tle music, with one eye on the stage watching 
the progress of the combat, which was terribly 
real. In a wild paroxysm Booth knocked the 
sword out of Richmond's hand with terrific 
force ; it flew towards the orchestra, grazed the 
side of my head, and then stuck quivering with 
its point well embedded in the wooden music- 
desk directly behind me. I never again sat in 
the orchestra when any such sword-fight was 
in progress. 

The combat between Richard and Richmond 
reminds me of a very funny termination to this 
same scene as I once saw it enacted in a thea- 
tre in Toronto, Ontario. Doubtless there are 
those in that city who will remember the inci- 
dent, for it happened not many years ago. 
Richard had the traditional hunch on his royal 
back, but it had been incautiously made up. 
During the progress of the famous combat, it 
was seen to change position, in fact it began to 
move down to Richard's middle ; then came 



-^ » 



Recollections of an Old Musician 23 

an awful catastrophe, — ^the hunch fell on the 
stage ! Every one could see that it was made 
up of an old pair of flannel drawers — tapes and 
all. When it fell, it spread out in as comical a 
shape as could have been made of deliberate 
design. Instantly there was a roar of laughter, 
enough to almost " raise the roof." The ac- 
tors tried to go on, but a sudden remembrance 
of the old drawers would every now and then 
convulse the audience and make any serious 
attention to the play impossible. It was a re- 
lief when Richard was killed and the curtain 
rung down. 

Naturally many funny things happen in thea- 
tres. When I was a boy playing in Alexan- 
der's Theatre in Glasgow, Scotland, a piece 
was on in which a robber figured prominently. 
A reward had been offered for his head — a 
well-known ancient custom. He had been 
caught, duly decapitated, and the head-money 
paid. At the rising of the curtain for the third 
act, the ghastly, dead head could be seen on 
the magistrate's table. In order to have the 
scene very realistic, the actor who had been 
the robber was hid under the table, which had 
a valance reaching to the floor, and through a 
hole cut in the table-top the robber's head 
could come up and lie as naturally on it as any 



24 Recollections of an Old Musician 

dead head The piece had had a rather long 
run and the gallery gods were tired of it. 
The table with the head was placed near the 
front of the stage. The aforesaid gallery gods 
— creatures without a conscience — procured 
some very old, strong Scotch snuff, and through 
a little blow-pipe they easily blew the snuff 
down towards the head. Oh, it was a cruel 
sight to see that poor dead head, with the eyes 
closed, sneeze and sneeze and sneeze ! Actu- 
ally in the lifting of the head in the sneezing 
act, we could hear the poor fellow's chin thump 
the table on the down-stroke. That ended 
the robber piece. 

In the old National Theatre in Boston I saw 
a similar trick used to kill a piece. The nauti- 
cal drama of Black-eyed Susan was having a 
rather protracted run. " Sailor Jones," as he 
was called, was the great artist of his day. 
Forty or fifty years ago sea-pieces formed a 
considerable proportion of the melodramas in 
vogue. Black-eyed Susan — ^written by Douglas 
Jerrold, well known by all lovers of the nau- 
tical drama — has towards the close of the 
piece a very affecting scene which generally 
causes sympathetic persons to shed tears. In 
old times, people were not so blasi as they are 
to-day ; it w^as not an infrequent thing to hear 



Recollections of an Old Musician 25 

some tender soul sob right out. That would 
** start all pumps," to use a phrase then in use. 
The boys in the pit had got tired of ** Susan." 
In the scene when tears began to flow they put 
up umbrellas in all directions. That caused 
" Susan " and ** sweet William " to retire. 

It may be interesting to young people to know 
that the pit (following the English custom) 
was where the present parquet is. It was level 
and slightly lower than the present floor. It 
was a cheap part of the house, mostly occupied 
by men and boys. The first circle brought the 
highest price ; the next was like our family cir- 
cle. The " third row " had rather a bad char- 
acter. There was a bar attached to this row, 
where liquors were sold. There was also a 
bar for the better class somewhere downstairs. 
It took a deal of fighting to get rid of the bars 
and the ** third row." 

Before ending my theatre recollections I 
must devote a few pages to the Viennoise 
Children and their visit to Boston in 1847. 
The troupe consisted of forty-eight children, all 
girls, whose ages ran from twelve years to 
about eighteen. These girls were collected in 
the city of Vienna by Madam Josephine Weiss, 
an old ballet mistress of one of the theatres. 



26 Recollections of an Old Musician 

The children were said to be poor waifs of the 
Austrian capital, taken up, given a home, edu- 
cated, and provided for by the old lady. From 
the large mass of children in her care she se- 
lected the shapeliest and prettiest and taught 
them to dance and to do everything in the 
choreographic art. The troupe had given 
some public exhibitions in Vienna, which won 
the admiration of the connoisseurs, and was now 
to be turned to good financial account Some 
agency brought them to Boston in a sailing- 
ship — fifty to sixty days* voyage from Trieste. 
Think of the task of caring for these forty-eight 
children fifty days and nights on a sailing- 
ship ! They arrived safely in Boston, and were 
boarded and lodged over "old Peter Brig- 
ham's" saloon on Tremont Row, the second 
house south of Hanover Street 

I used often to see the children, marshalled by 
the old, stout ballet mistress, who, leaning on 
a big stick, would give the word " Vorwarts ! " 
and then they would march, two and two, like 
seminary girls going out for a walk, over to 
the Howard Atheneum, where they spent the 
morning studying the art of dancing. It was 
of course their special line, and the means by 
which they earned their daily bread. 

When rehearsing their pieces in the theatre, 



AUOUSTE FRrES. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 27 

the old lady usually sat in a chair on the stage 
near the orchestra leader with her big stick, 
which was at once her baton of office and her 
wherewithal to pound the stage while beating 
time. She was wonderfully spry in her move- 
ments ; sometimes she would rush in among 
the children as though she could kill them, 
but I never saw anything worse than a seeming 
roughness. We must remember old times and 
European treatment of children ; the adage, 
" Don't spare the rod and spoil the child," was 
the rule. To the lookers-on, these children 
were apparently happy and having a good 
time. 

A few days after the arrival of the troupe 
the momentous night of opening came. Our 
orchestra had had no rehearsal with the chil- 
dren (but had studied the music) ; consequently 
when the curtain was raised we had our first 
sight of them. I must confess in advance my 
inability to describe the beauty of their per- 
formance. It was simply ideal. The opening 
dance was the " Pas des Fleurs," music by Max 
Maretzek, — ^then an unknown name in Amer- 
ica ; he came over from Europe a few years 
later. The dance consisted of andante intro- 
duction, a set of five waltzes, and a lengthy 
finale. When the curtain rose, the children 



28 Recollections of an Old Musician 

were seen to be built up, about thirty of them, 
in the form of a huge bouquet, round which 
were two garlands or rings of flowers (children) 
that swung slowly around the middle mass. 
Then the latter disentangled themselves and 
spread out on the stage in bunches, and 
the animated movement began. Every kind 
of figure was made by groups of children, — 
swinging stars, chains, threading needles, and 
dancing round the May-pole, which with its 
long colored ribbons remained on the centre 
of the stage. The music was good. Each 
waltz had its appropriate dancing figures. 
The finale brought all into a wild, whirling, 
passionate movement, and it seemed to us at 
times as if the whole thing must go to pieces ; 
but the artistic plan was perfectly carried out. 
The " pleasures of memory " were never more 
thoroughly realized by any one than by me at 
this moment of writing ; after a lapse of over 
fifty years, the picture of the dancing children 
is before me in its living, pulsating shape. 

The whole audience was seemingly in ecstasy 
with the performance. The happy, bright 
faces and the gleeful play of the children 
stirred up the deepest emotions of the specta- 
tors. Many people were in tears. I know 
that the old oboist at my elbow did not play 



Recollections of an Old Musician 29 

many notes during the early part of the waltz, 
for tears ran down his face like rain. When 
the dance finally ended and the curtain fell, 
the audience was in a kind of emotional insan- 
ity, and gave vent to it in wild applause. The 
scenes were so wonderfully beautiful, and so 
unlike anything before witnessed by a majority 
of the audience, that they felt as if they had 
had a dream or vision of Paradise. 

During the stay of the children they per- 
formed many lovely fairy ballets in two or 
three acts, in which the fascinating story was 
told by pantomimic action and dancing. One 
of their most remarkable pieces was termed 
the ** Mirror Dance." Imagine a fine, apparently 
seamless lace curtain let down from the flies to 
the stage, about on a line with the second en- 
trance, embracing its entire width and height. 
Around this net was a gilt border or frame 
which made the whole resemble a mirror, all 
the more perfectly because the stage behind 
the lace was in darkness. 

The green curtain rises. The play begins. 
The children who perform represent an equal 
number of boys and girls. One or two couples 
shyly stray onto the stage in front, and there 
are exactly similar figures and movements on 
the inner side of the lace curtain. The front 



30 Recollections of an Old Musician 

couples discover themselves reflected in the 
mirror ; they are frightened and jump back — 
the rear ones of course doing the same. The 
children on both sides, in shape, dress, and ac- 
tion, are such perfect counterparts that the 
effect is precisely as if done in front of a real 
mirror. This little tentative work is repeated 
a few times, but finding that the reflection 
does not harm them they fear it no more ; they 
grow bold ; they come on in larger numbers ; 
they look in the mirror, admiring themselves 
and their graceful movements, meanwhile go- 
ing through with many comical performances. 
Remembering that everything done before the 
lace curtain is duplicated behind it, we can see 
that the effect would be wonderful and beauti- 
ful. The thing could only be accomplished 
where girls in large numbers could be selected, 
matched, and taught with most patient in- 
dustry. 

I cannot say what became of the company 
after it left Boston. We had no Dramatic 
Mirror in those days. 



CHAPTER IV 

IN my early years in Boston, foreign artists, 
singers, and players, came to the United 
States pretty much as they come now, but rel- 
atively in smaller numbers. Boston was even 
then quite a Mecca for instrumentalists. 

Among those who made the greatest im- 
pression on me were three genuine artists 
who formed a little company, — Sivori, violinist, 
Knoop, violoncellist, Henry Herz, pianist 
The latter was spoken of with great acclaim by 
the newspapers as the composer of variations 
on Hotne^ Sweet Home. His position was 
thereby fixed at the top round of the art ladder. 
He did play his own compositions quite neatly, 
also those of Rosellen and kindred composers, 
and I was present when he took part in a piano 
trio by Haydn ; but I fear his playing would 
not pass muster in these days. The 'cellist, 
Knoop, was of the regulation pattern of well- 
trained virtuosi, who could play the elder 
Romberg's compositions. But Sivori was 
really a master violinist — ^an advance Wieni- 

31 



32 Recollections of an Old Musician 

awski, without the latter's ability to compose 
violin music. Sivori had a marvellous tech- 
nique. He had been the only pupil and pro- 
t6g6 of Paganini, and he played on the latter's 
famous Stradivarius, left by will to him. 

In the summer of '88, I spent a part of the 
season in Paris. Sivori was still alive, and, 
like the majority of artists who lead the lives 
of virtuosi, had made Paris his home. I de- 
termined to do myself the honor of calling on 
him, and had an opportunity to do so in com- 
pany with a Boston friend who knew him well. 
Sivori was living on the fourth or fifth story of 
a very modest hotel, having a single room, with 
space for an upright piano and an alcove for 
his bed. It was a charming, cosy little room, 
just such a one as the majority of bachelor 
artists occupy in Paris, no matter how ample 
their income ; and in these quarters they re- 
ceive the visits of princes and people of the 
haute noblesse, 

I let my friend, who was intimate with Sivori, 
do the talking for some time, while I watched 
all the artist's motions. He was a rather small- 
sized man, and had very small hands for a 
violinist, at which I marvelled, for his distinc- 
tion was based on his being a Paganini player ; 
and we all know that the music of that com- 



CAMILLE SIV0R1. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 33 

poser requires the fingers of a prestidigitator. 
As we progressed in our call I nudged my friend 
(according to previous agreement) to tell 
Sivori I was a member of the Mendels- 
sohn Quintette Club of Boston, and that I 
wanted very much to see the famous " Strad," 
the inheritance from Paganini. Sivori was 
amiability itself. 

I should have said at the start that he was 
preparing to sally forth for his cUjeuner when 
we called, but he did not hesitate to receive 
us, though he was at the moment in the most 
unconventional of costumes. He was the gen- 
tleman and ban camarade from first to last 

Sivori took out the violin from its case. It 
was a perfect " Kohinoor " of an instrument, 
just the right color, and perfectly preserved, — 
not a scratch or a crack, — ^with the great seal of 
red sealing-wax on the under part of the violin 
where the neck begins. I told Mr. Sivori 
that I heard him in his first concert given in 
the old Masonic Temple in Boston (where R. 
H. Stearns & Co.'s store now is), that I was 
an enthusiastic boy at the time, and that his 
playing had made such an impression on me 
that I could name the pieces he played in that 
concert, though there was an interim of about 
forty years. I named them, — the E-flat concerto 



34 Recollections of an Old Musician 

(his own composition), La Campanile by Paga- 
nini, and the Mosi in Egitto^ also by Paganini. 

The old artist opened his bookcase, took 
out a book containing an itinerary of musi- 
cal tournies made in his younger days, and 
turned at once to Boston. I had named the 
pieces exactly, and he was highly pleased. 
He played for us a great deal, and it was a 
joy to hear the tone of that violin ; it was also 
impossible not to be affected by the sentiment 
connected with it. Paganini's violin ! the in- 
strument of that strange and wonderful player, 
the wizard of the concert stage, who had con- 
quered all musical Europe. 

My friend and I began to feel that we must 
not prolong our visit, but Sivori wanted to 
show us his numerous presents received from 
kings and courts. He told us some very funny 
stories, one of which I will repeat. 

The famous impresario^ Ulman, well known 
in America, had engaged four of the greatest 
living violinists for a little concert trip. It 
was arranged that at their concerts these vir- 
tuosi should each play a solo and then play 
together the well-known concerto for four 
violins by Maurer. One night Sivori was 
greatly dissatisfied with the trill he had made 
in the famous Trill du Viable by Tartini. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 35 

Leonard, an equally famous violinist, and he 
were sharing a very large room in the hotel. 
Sivori was nervous and could not sleep. The 
trill haunted him ; he got out of bed, partly 
dressed himself, took out his fiddle, put a mute 
on it, and, going to the remotest corner from 
where Leonard lay peacefully sleeping, he be- 
gan practising the trill in the softest pianissimo. 
Doubtless he made a peculiar, scratchy, mouse- 
nibbling kind of noise, and it awoke Leonard, 
who, thinking it was a mouse, reached out for 
one of his boots and fired it at the corner in 
order to scare away the supposed mouse. It 
was a good shot, for it hit Sivori in the middle 
of the back, causing an outcry which prevented 
Leonard from making a second shot. The 
two comrades had something to laugh over for 
quite a while. 

To return to the fact that I had been able 
to name the pieces played by Sivori after so 
long an interim : it may seem extraordinary. 
It is, and yet is not I argue that any young 
lawyer who heard Daniel Webster or Rufus 
Choate speak for the first time would remem- 
ber to the end of his days the subject of 
cither's oratory. 

In the summer of 1847, we had a visit from 



36 Recollections of an Old Musician 

a very complete Italian opera troupe. At 
that period of Boston's social history, it was 
not the fashion to leave the city for the sum- 
mer ; therefore the citizens were as eager to 
welcome a good entertainment in summer as 
in winter. 

This Havana troupe was notable for its 
corps of fine singers, among them being some 
of the world's foremost artists. Tedesco, the 
soprano, was truly a great dramatic singer. 
After the Boston season was over, she went to 
Paris, and easily won the first place in all 
European opera houses. Then there was 
Vita, the contralto, a splendid singer, second 
only to Alboni. Then came Perelli, the tenor, 
who was a fine singer, a thorough musician, 
and a remarkable pianist. This artist after 
leaving Boston made his home in Philadelphia 
There was also Novelli, a magnificent basso, 
who became well known in Boston, as he visited 
that city many times subsequently. 

The opera had a good effective chorus, and 
a complete orchestra, with Arditi (afterward 
so well known) as maestro, or conductor, and 
first violin, — it being the custom in those days 
for the leader to beat time with his bow, 
playing on his violin when he desired to assist 
or to animate his men. This fashion still pre- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 37 

vails in many parts of the world. Johann 
Strauss, the famous waltz composer, played 
the violin when conducting his compositions 
in the second Gilmore Jubilee. His brother 
Eduard, who more recently visited this coun- 
try with his own orchestra, conducted in the 
same way. I must not omit to say that Ar- 
diti was a true virtuoso on the violin. 

To return to our little history of the Havana 
Opera Company. They had for contrabasso 
the world-renowned Bottesini, a veritable 
Paganini on his big instrument. The troupe 
performed but three times per week. That 
also was the prevailing custom of the day. 

The company supported itself on those three 
performances, and yet the prices of admission 
were only fifty, cents and one dollar ; the 
former admitting to the gallery. We can in- 
fer that the honorariums to the artist were 
modest in comparison to those of the present 
day. It may be added that their social stand- 
ing was quite different from what it is now. 
Most of them lived in the Pemberton Hotel, 
adjoining the theatre, and it was certainly a 
hotel of modest pretension. 

It was customary for the troupe to give con- 
certs in the theatre on Saturday evenings, on 
which occasions Arditi and Bottesini played 



38 Recollections of an Old Musician 

solos. On one of those evenings a very droll 
incident occurred. While Arditi was per- 
forming a violin solo on the stage, a gentleman 
in the balcony nearest the stage became so ex- 
cited over Arditi's tours deforce that in order 
to manifest his approbation he resorted to a 
most extraordinary device. He began by 
throwing his white kid gloves at Arditi's feet, 
then his light walking-cane, and finally his hat. 
I forget whether his coat and vest did or did 
not follow ; certainly it seems as if that would 
have been a natural sequence. At this junc- 
ture a couple of ushers came upon the scene, 
and great applause and cheering went up from 
the audience ; but whether for Arditi or his 
admirer in the balcony I cannot say. For a 
long time, " Oh, take my hat ! " was a popular 
slang phrase. 

About a dozen years ago I called on Mr. 
Arditi in N^w York, on his return to America 
as director with Madame Patti. When my 
card was handed him he was talking with a 
number of brother artists. I was politely re- 
ceived, and introduced to the gentlemen ; and 
after a few minutes of conversation with Ar- 
diti I asked him if he remembered the scene 
in the Howard Theatre when the man in the 
balcony began throwing his outfit on the stage. 



ALLEN T. BROWN. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 39 

The moment I put the question he recalled the 
incident with great amusement ; and, with a 
zest and volubility possessed only by Italians, 
retold the story to the artists present, who 
greeted it with outbursts of laughter. 

Returning again to the Havana Opera Com- 
pany, there was a story current (remember 
that humbug is as old as the world and that 
skilful agents were even then industriously 
" working up business " ) that Marti, the man- 
ager, had been for many years a terror to the 
island of Cuba, and indeed to the entire West 
India Islands, as pirate and smuggler, a 
veritable buccaneer — a, kind of man who really 
once existed in the flesh ; nor is it so very 
many years ago since gentry of his kind 
operated in all the southern waters. To the 
city of Havana Marti was a pest No vessel 
could go in or out of the harbor without pay- 
ing tribute to him. The Governor-General of 
Cuba offered a large reward for Marti's head, 
dead or alive. The reward did not bring the 
head. There was no change for a long time 
in the pestiferous ways of Marti. 

Finally an envoy of his reached the Gov- 
ernor with a message to the effect that Marti 
was tired of his profession and wished to make 
the following proposition : 



40 Recollections of an Old Musician 

He, Marti, would give up his terrible trade, 
destroy all other pirates in the vicinity, and 
become a good citizen of the city of Havana, 
if they would pardon him in full for all previ- 
ous misdeeds. By way of proper compensa- 
tion for the loss of so profitable a business, 
he hoped the Governor would allow him the 
monopoly of the fresh-fish trade of the city of 
Havana Such a monopoly in a large Catho- 
lic community means a great fortune. As a 
quid pro quo, Marti would support, for a term 
of years, an Italian opera company made up of 
the finest artists, without any subvention from 
the government or aristocracy of the island. 

The proposition was disdained at first and 
the piracy was continued. Eventually a com- 
promise was effected ; the free opera was too 
tempting a bait not to be eagerly swallowed 
by people of the Spanish and Cuban tempera- 
ment. Marti opened the fish-market, carried 
out all his promises, and became a law-abiding 
citizen. In due time he collected a bona fide 
opera troupe, which delighted the citizens of 
Havana for years. 

Something inspired Marti to bring his troupe 
to Boston. They came from Cuba in a sailing 
vessel, and gave opera at the Howard Theatre 
for about two months during two consecutive 



Recollections of an Old Musician 41 

summers. The average of the performances 
was good. The operas were by Verdi, Bellini, 
Donizetti, Mercadante, Rossini-r— all up-to-date 
Italian works. The troupe was well sup- 
ported, being a great novelty and delight to 
Bostonians ; it was also the advance-guard of 
the many opera troupes afterward brought to 
our city by enterprising managers. 

Is there not a tempting chance here for 
some lover of that side of the art to write a 
brief history of the various opera troupes which 
have visited this country? They have done 
their share of inculcating a taste for music 

For a while opera meant Italian music only ; 
then, with Martha and Stradella, came a 
sprinkling of the lighter class of German 
operas. The mixture was healthy and pre- 
pared our people for the greater things yet to 
come. Finally the red-letter day dawned which 
brought me a degree of happiness that I shall 
never forget. Max Maretzek had an opera 
troupe in the Federal Street Theatre. He 
brought out Mozart's Don Giovanni^ with the 
fine singer Bosio as "Zerlini." Perhaps my 
pleasure was heightened by the fact that the 
director used my score. The copy is one 
of the earliest published, with the German 
title-page, Don Juan ; or, The Stone Ghost ; a 



42 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Comic Opera in Two Acts. Some few years 
later; Fidelia, by Beethoven, was performed 
in the Boston Theatre, and at last we heard 
the finest music-dramas ; and probably no 
greater enjoyment will ever be derived from 
any future performance of them than we got 
from that first one. Of that I am satisfied. 



CHAPTER V 

IN my early days in Boston, series of con- 
certs were given in the Federal Street 
Theatre, on the corner of Franklin Street, by 
the so-called Boston Academy of Music. There 
was always a goodly number of music-lovers in 
Boston, — and we cannot give too much credit 
to the pioneers who did the ploughing and 
seeding of musical taste. " The Boston Acad- 
emy of Music " was formed and named in 1833, 
by Messrs. William C. Woodbridge, Lowell 
Mason, and a few kindred souls, who laid out 
this ambitious but beneficent programme : 

1. To establish schools of vocal music and 
juvenile classes. 

2. To establish similar classes for adults. 

3. To form a class for instruction in the 
methods of teaching music 

4. To form an association of choristers and 
leading members of choirs for the purpose of 
improvement in church music 

5. To establish a course of popular lectures 
on the nature and object of church music 

43 



44 Recollections of an Old Musician 

6. To have scientific lectures. 

7. To give exhibition concerts. 

8. To introduce vocal music into schools. 

9. To publish circulars and essays. 

The Academy, after a few years of action on 
this basis, resolved itself into an organization 
of music-lovers and amateur instrumentalists, 
assisted by professionals, making an orchestra 
of perhaps forty, and gave concerts. 

The programmes were of very mixed music, 
but aspiring to the best Beethoven's Fifth 
Symphony was brought out by them for the 
first time in Boston. Each programme was gen- 
erally made up of a French opera overture, one 
or two instrumental solos by members of the or- 
chestra or strangers, a movement from an easy 
symphony, a potpourri, and a few vocal pieces. 

The President of the Society, at the time of 
which I am writing, was Gen. B. F. Ed- 
mands, a most amiable man and an efficient 
worker. I was engaged by him as one of the 
second violins. He saw that I was an ambi- 
tious boy, and took a fancy to me. That am- 
bition got me into a little trouble later on, and 
was the cause of a bit of musical history of the 
times worth recording. 

Before coming to Boston I had played second 
clarinet in the Dublin (Ireland) Philharmonic 



Recollections of an Old Musician 45 

Society. I n the season of 1 844-45, that Society 
brought out the Scotch Symphony and the 
Midsummer Nighfs Dream overture, by Men- 
delssohn. When I made the acquaintance of 
General Edmands, I took the liberty of telling 
him that Mendelssohn's music was in great fa- 
vor in Europe, and urged him to get the above 
works. They were sent for. When received, 
it was discovered that no score had come. 

We must remember that fifty years ago 
there were not many professional musicians of 
sufficient technical ability to cope with Men- 
delssohn's music, which even to-day is classified 
as difficult. Our orchestra was made up half 
of amateurs and half of professionals. We could 
have no lightning-express trains in tempo; 
most music was played tempo commodo. All 
trains were accommodation trains. " Music 
was made for man, and not man for music." 
Those were the governing principles, and in 
general furnished the motive power. 

One other point to remember is the fact that 
in old days an overture generally meant a big, 
noisy, pompous, slam-bang affair, intended for 
a curtain-raiser to an opera, — ^a certain festive 
noise to be made while people were tumbling 
into their seats, or looking around to see who 
had come, etc. This type of overture was the 



46 Recollections of an Old Musician 

only one the average player had any acquaint- 
ance with ; indeed, in point of history, we must 
not overlook the fact that Mendelssohn was 
the creator of the so-called romantic overture, 
under which head come Fingars Cave^ Calm 
Sea^ Ruy Blas^ etc. Therefore, when I say 
that the Midsummer Night's Dream was taken 
up for the first time by our orchestra, all cul- 
tured persons who are familiar with that deli- 
cate, fairy-like composition may well smile to 
think that any but experts should attempt the 
difficult feat of playing it. 

Well, we tried it. Our conductor was Mr. 
Geo. J.Webb, — an excellent general musician, 
but who had never heard the overture. He 
began by telling us that he had no score ; so 
he stood up alongside of the first-violin desk 
and prepared to conduct. Rapping on the 
desk, he gave the signal to begin ; out piped 
two flutes, — nothing else. He rapped again, 
implying that the players had not been ready 
to begin ; then he said, " We will try again." 
He gave the signal — and out piped the two 
flutes. That caused a little titter of surprise, and 
we all looked quizzically at each other. Mr. 
Webb, however, dutifully gave the signal for 
the next "hold " or chord, when two clarinets 
joined the two flutes! More surprise. At 



QEOnOE JAMES WEBB. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 47 

the third hold (chord) the fagotti and horns 
were added, and at the fourth hold (chord) the 
entire wood and lyind instruments, all sounding 
most distressingly out of tune. This dissonant 
and unlooked-for result was followed by a dead 
pause ; then every one of the players broke out 
with a hearty laugh of derision. 

I was on pins and needles and muttered, 
" Go on, go on ! " After a while the people 
sobered down, and we tried to commence with 
the string part. The first and second violins 
(each relative part divided into two parts) 
began at an "accommodation-train" tempo. 
At the end of the violin passage, the wood and 
wind again held a very dissonant chord for 
two measures, which this time sounded so 
abominably out of tune that it really was as 
bad as if each man played any note he pleased ; 
and it was so irresistibly funny that again 
everybody burst out laughing. But I buried 
my head under the music desk and cried ; my 
idol was derided, every one poked fun at me. 

That last dissonant chord ended the first 
rehearsal of the Midsummer Ntghfs Dream 
overture. We never tried it again. 

Time, however, set me right. A few years 
later, the Germania Musical Society visited 
Boston. The Germania was a fine orchestra 



48 Recollections of an Old Musician 

of about thirty artists, and every one could 
play well his part. Their first concert was 
given on April 14th. Their ptice de resistance 
was the overture to Midsummer Night's Dream, 
and it was beautifully played. So I had my 
revenge and could poke fun at my fellow- 
players by saying, " Now you can hear what 
Mendelssohn is as a composer." (The overture 
was written in 1826, when he was only seven- 
teen years old, as everybody should know.) 

This is the programme of the Germania 
concert : 

1. Overture to " Zampa " . . . Hdrold, 

2. Waltz, " The Pesther " . . . . Lanner. 

3. Fantaisie for Violin .... Ernst, 

Mr. Wm. Schultze. 

4. Betty Polka Lenschow. 

5. Overture, " Midsummer Night's Dream," 

Mendelssohn. 

6. Variations on Swiss Air for the Flute, 

Boehm. 
Mr. Pfeiffer. 

7. Finale, " Siege of Corinth " . . . Rossini. 

8. Festival Overture, Dedicated to the President of 

the United States, General Taylor . Lenschow. 

9. Waltz, " Sounds from the Heart " . . Strauss. 
10. Panorama of Broadway, New York. "A de- 
scriptive potpourri, received with the greatest 
applause by large and fashionable audiences," 
arranged by Lenschaw. 



CHAPTER VI 

I AM well aware that I am not writing quite in 
chronological order. I never kept notes, 
and do not know a person who can set me right 
if I put anything on record awry. I am al- 
most the last of the " old guard." I was for 
many years the youngest musician in Boston ; 
now perhaps I am the oldest, and still in 
harness. I can make a fair record, in substance, 
of the rise and fall of the different societies, 
and that is about all the value which can be 
attached to it. 

Contemporary with the Academy of Music 
was the Philharmonic Society. The former 
was under the guidance of men like Mr. 
Geo. J. Webb, Mr. Lowell Mason, Mr. 
Woodbridge, Mr. John S. Dwight, and Gen. 
B. F. Edmands. The Philharmonic was, I 
think, a younger society, with Mr. Edward 
Riddle as President, — a well-known amateur 
flute-player, father of Mr. Geo. Riddle, the 
elocutionist. The musical director was Mr. 
Schmidt, — ^a good musician and a violin vir- 

49 



50 Recollections of an Old Musician 

tuoso. I think that each society had from four 
to six years of life before it went to pieces. 

On the ruins of these two societies was 
organized and incorporated " The Musical 
Fund Society " in the year 1852. It was com- 
posed exclusively of professionals, and was the 
first society so organized in Boston. It was char- 
tered by the State of Massachusetts and em- 
powered to hold property to a certain amount 
and to give concerts in aid of sick members. 
The chief officers were members of the Society, 
but there was a board of directors and coun- 
cil of advice chosen from the most active and 
prominent music supporters, perhaps seventy- 
five in number. 

The Society began its concerts in the old 
Melodeon Hall, where Keith's Theatre now 
stands, next door to the Boston Theatre. The 
finances were managed on the co-operative 
plan ; that is, there was an equal division of 
the profits, the man at the drums getting 
just as much as the leader of the violins. The 
director received no pay, the honor being 
considered a sufficient reward. Soloists who 
were members of the Society received an 
honorarium of fifteen dollars. 

The " rise and fall " in the history of all 
such societies is so monotonously similar that 



Recollections of an Old Musician 5 1 

one grows weary of writing about it. The 
Musical Fund, which was no exception to the 
rule, started off with flying colors and a large 
subscription, every one rushing to put their 
names on the list. The orchestra, which num- 
bered about fifty players, did fairly good work 
for the times. The symphonies played were 
by Pleyel, Haydn, and Kalliwoda ; also the easy 
ones of Mozart and the early ones of Beethoven. 
Every musical person can imagine the kind of 
music given. The orchestra had the assistance 
of vocal soloists, both foreign and native. 

The first two seasons' concerts were given 
in the Melodeon. This hall, which held about 
nine hundred and was admirable for sound, 
proved to be too small to hold the audiences, 
so the Society moved to the Tremont Temple, 
which accommodated about fifteen hundred 
persons. After a few seasons of popularity 
there was a falling off in the attendance, fol- 
lowed by two seasons that ended without any 
money to divide ; but we kept on all the same, 
for we had not formed the Society to make 
money, but rather to improve ourselves in the 
art of music. A good many small gifts of 
money came from patrons, and the munificent 
sum of a thousand dollars was contributed by 
Jenny Lind. 



52 Recollections of an Old Musician 

The Society gave concerts for about six 
years, but was plainly moribund. The Ger- 
mania Musical Society, which had been in 
Boston for two seasons, really gave the coup de 
grdce to the Musical Fund Society by its fine 
orchestra and its superior performances. 

Our Society, having resolved to give no more 
concerts, was changed into a benefit organiza- 
tion. The money in the treasury was liberally 
paid out to sick members or for funeral ex- 
penses, and in donations to widows ; one after 
another the members dropped out, and when 
the money was gone, all was over. 

Many of my pleasantest memories are con- 
nected with the workings of the Fund Society. 
Mr. Webb was the first conductor, followed 
by "old Tom Comer." The latter, a charac- 
ter in Boston, was well known and beloved. 
He was of Irish extraction and originally an 
actor. He had a passion for music — could 
compose a little, played the violin tolerably 
well, was leader of an orchestra in the Boston 
Museum for many years, and afterwards in the 
Boston Theatre. He was just the man for 
the times, — ^popular on all sides, "hand and 
glove " with every one, as the old saying went, 
and was a valuable president for the Fund 
Society. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 53 

One of his financial appeals in behalf of the 
Society is worth putting on record. He de- 
cided to perform Haydn's Farewell Symphony. 
To explain the origin and character of this 
piece of music I must give a bit of history. 

In the" good old days" our grandfathers 
used to talk about, when kings, princes, and pre- 
lates of the European states were leeching the 
life-blood out of the people, every aristocratic 
worthy lived on a big, showy scale, surrounded 
by a large retinue of followers, including mu- 
sicians. Every grandee had his own orchestra, 
or its equivalent on a somewhat lesser scale. 
The most famous composers and musicians of 
the day were in the service of some prince or no- 
bleman. For them no other life was possible ; 
if they did not have the patronage, or were not 
under the wing, of the high and mighty, they 
had no way nor right to live. Mozart served 
for a while with the Bishop of Salzburg, and 
Haydn served his long life with Prince Ester- 
hazy. To this unfortunate, or perhaps fortu- 
nate system, as we choose to look at it, may be 
attributed the marvellous amount of chamber 
music written by those composers. New 
work for the entertainment of guests must be 
always forthcoming. 

It happened that at one period in the life of 



f: 



54 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Esterhazy his finances were in a pinched con- 
dition, and he had determined to discharge a 
goodly portion of his orchestra. That struck 
grief and sorrow into the heart of Haydn, and 
he determined to write a suitable farewell sym- 
phony. He composed it and produced it be- 
fore the court The symphony was scored at 
the beginning for the usual number of players, 
but in the course of its performance the audi- 
ence noticed that two bassoons, two oboi, and 
two clarinets quietly shut up their books, put 
the extinguishers on their candles, and retired 
very softly and sadly. Other couples did like- 
wise till only a quartette of the strings remained. 
Haydn, who had appeared to be absorbed in 
his work as conductor, suddenly discovered 
that he was left almost alone, looked round in 
sorrow, heaved a big sigh, and ended the per- 
formance. History relates that the ruse was 
successful ; the scene was so pathetic that the 
Prince concluded to retain his orchestra. 

This pretty little drama was re-enacted by 
the Fund Society in the old Tremont Temple ; 
but alas ! there was no prince to come to the 
rescue. The Society had evidently served its 
time and purpose, and shortly after it ceased 
active operations. 

One stroke of misfortune was reserved for 



Recollections of an Old Musician 55 

the close of its career. On a Saturday night 
in the coldest part of the winter, the Society 
gave a concert. When it was over the musi- 
cians discovered that the streets were in a very 
slippery and dangerous condition from the rain 
that froze as it fell, and a large number of them, 
fearing to carry their instruments to their 
homes, left them in the office of the Temple. 
That part of the building took fire that very 
night, and all the instruments, music, and prop- 
erties of the Society were destroyed. 



CHAPTER VII 

IN the winter of 1846 the first moderately 
complete orchestra, known as the Steyer- 
mark Orchestra, came to the United States 
from Europe. They numbered about twenty 
men, good players, with Francis Riha as first 
violin and director, who afterward became the 
second violin of the Mendelssohn Quintette 
Club. They played mostly light dance music, 
overtures, potpourris, and solos. They did 
everything with great " chic " or " snap," which 
was a new thing to our people. 

Riha was an exceedingly handsome young 
man, graceful in every motion, very talented 
in composition, and a fine violinist. The art- 
ists wore the picturesque Steyermark country 
uniform. They had little clinking, cymbal-like 
bits of metal attached to the heels of their long 
boots, and when playing certain characteristic 
pieces they used to knock their heels together 
and produce a clear, lively sound which " took " 
with the audience. They played nightly for 
about a month in the old Melodeon and then 

56 



Recollections of an Old Musician 57 

went off on a concert tour. They returned to 
Boston after a while, but the novelty was gone, 
and their concerts were poorly patronized, so 
they soon bade us farewell and once more 
started out to " seek their fortunes." One after 
another the performers finally dropped out of 
the company and settled in various cities, the 
director, Francis Riha, coming back to Boston. 

Sometime in 1848, another organization, 
styling itself the Lombardi Orchestra, visited 
us. It was made up of the remnants of an 
Italian opera orchestra which had ended oper- 
ations in New York, and came to Boston on a 
venture, with August Fries as leader and first 
violin. 

It met its fate in Boston and went to pieces ; 
some of the artists remaining there, chief among 
whom was Mr. Fries, a valuable musician, who 
became the main founder and leader of the 
Mendelssohn Quintette Club. 

The next orchestra which came to our city 
was the Saxonia, with Mr. Carl Eckhardt as 
leader. They played well, but had no finan- 
cial success, and disbanded in Boston ; many 
of their best men, such as Messrs. Eichler, 
Stein, Pinter, and the leader, settled there. Mr. 
Eckhardt was an excellent musician and violin- 
ist. He remained in Boston for a number of 



58 Recollections of an Old Musician 

years, then moved to Columbus, Ohio, and 
has been up to date the director of music in 
that city. 

In April, 1848, an orchestra which held to- 
gether six years came to this country, and 
became quite famous,— ^the aforementioned 
Germania Musical Society. It numbered 
about thirty artists, Mr. Lenschow being the 
leader. They played much classic music, — 
their "crack piece" being the Midsummer 
Night's Dream overture. The orchestra was 
made up of genuine, fine artists, among them 
Mr. William Schultze, who became the first 
violin of the Mendelssohn Quintette on the 
retirement of August Fries in 1859 — ^1^^ tenth 
year pf the Club. 

Schultze was about twenty-two years old 
when he first came to Boston. He had a 
good, lithe figure, and a handsome, prepos- 
sessing face — a face which easily flushed and 
showed every feeling of modesty or pleasure. 
It is easy to infer that female admiration laid 
siege to the heart of this ideal "first violin," 
and he became the pet of musical Boston. 
He was a fine violinist, a good general mu- 
sician, something of a linguist, always a stu- 
dent, yet a most genial, society-loving person, 
and one of the best story-tellers in the world. 



WILLIAM SCHULT2E. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 59 

Schultze was the first violin of the Quintette 
Club for nearly twenty years. 

There were other good men and artists of 
the Germania who must also be remembered. 
Carl Zerrahn was first flute, — a fine player and 
an excellent man in every relation of life. He 
is too well known all through the country to 
need any panegyric from me. Carl Bergmann 
made his first appearance with the Society as 
trombonist, afterward as 'cellist, and was also 
a good violinist and pianist. Carl Sentz, the 
leading second violin, was afterward director of 
music in Philadelphia for many years. 

Mr. Carl Meisel, the " well-beloved " in Bos- 
ton, played at the same desk with Schultze. 
He succeeded Mr. Riha as second violin with 
the Mendelssohn Quintette, 1854, in the fifth 
year of the Club. 

When the Germania Society came to 
America they played part of a season in New 
York and Philadelphia, and then came to 
Boston, where they gave a lengthy series 
of concerts, extending over an entire sea- 
son. The following season they went to 
Baltimore and had a similar success. Mr. 
Lenschow, the leader, finally resigned and 
settled there. 

Carl Bergmann succeeded Lenschow as con- 



6o Recollections of an Old Musician 

ductor. He was a talented composer, and was 
distinctly a man of great attainments in every 
line of the art of music. Like Mr. Lenschow, 
he was a wonderful arranger of musical com- 
positions calculated to win popularity, — ^an es- 
sential thing for all artists who have to work 
for their bread and butter, — among which was 
a potpourri called Up Broadway that became 
a great favorite. It was supposed to be a 
graphic tone-picture of sights and sounds seen 
and heard from Castle Garden to Union 
Square, which was at that time the boundary 
of New York's bustling life. 

This potpourri began with a musical picture 
of Castle Garden, which was the home, and 
the only one, good music had at that time in 
that city. Moving up with the musical diorama, 
you next came to Barnum's Museum, with 
" Barnum's Band " of six or eight brass instru- 
ments, which, as all old New Yorkers know, 
played all day long on a high balcony outside 
his Museum on Broadway, nearly opposite the 
Astor House. It was side-splitting to hear the 
imitation of this brass band. One can even 
now occasionally enjoy a faint resemblance of 
it in passing a dime museum. 

The report was current that Bamum's play- 
ers were made to pay a little money for the 



Recollections of an Old Musician 6i 

privilege of practising and playing in public. 
I don't vouch for its truthfulness, but the story 
went that a man made application to play the 
trombone on the balcony with the combina- 
tion, who, like all musicians, was a very modest 
man, and did not like to mention the word pay 
or salary. He was told that he could play. 
At the end of the week he plucked up courage 
enough to appear before Mr. Barnum and 
timidly ask for his wages. Phineas was quite 
ready with his little bill per contra : " John 
Smith, to P. T. Barnum, Dr., for the privilege 
of playing on the balcony of Museum one week 
in public, nine dollars." 

Returning to the potpourri, a firemen's pa- 
rade with brass band came next. Naturally 
it was preceded by a violent ringing of fire- 
bells, and a rushing down a side street with 
" the machine." When that noise died away, 
music from the open door of a dance hall was 
heard ; with of course all its accompaniments, 
— ^the rhythm of dancing feet, and the calling 
out of the figures. Then, moving on with the 
diorama, we passed by a church whence came 
the sound of organ music and the chanting of 
a service by a number of voices. After that 
we heard in the distance a faint kind of Turk- 
ish patrol music ; then a big crescendo and sud- 



62 Recollections of an Old Musician 

dj^Vi fortissimo introduced us to Union Square 
and its life ; and two brass bands in two differ- 
ent keys prepared our nerves for the usual 
collision and fight between two opposing fire 
companies. This latter made a great sensa- 
tion. Finally, fireworks were touched off, the 
Star-Spangled Banner was played, and the pot- 
pourri ended, sending every one home in smil- 
ing good-humor. 

The Germania was a big success in Boston. 
Subscription lists twenty feet long (no ex- 
aggeration) could be seen in the music stores 
for a series of twenty-four Saturday evenings, 
and the same number of public rehearsals on 
Wednesday afternoons. These public rehears- 
als were the first ever given in Boston, and, if 
I mistake not, the first given anywhere. Cer- 
tainly the system did not prevail in Europe, for 
I distinctly remember that some combination 
carried out the idea in London, and it was 
commented on there as " following the Ameri- 
can plan." 

The Germania held together about six years 
—most of the time in Boston. They made 
many short trips in New England, and one 
tournde with Jenny Lind. Their summers were 
profitably spent in Newport. In the last two 
seasons they added as stars the f^tmpus girl- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 6^ 

violinist, Camilla Urso, and Alfred Jaell, pian- 
ist Madame Urso is too well known to need 
any eulogy at my hands. She is one of the 
very few young wonders who developed into 
great artists at maturity. Jaell was a splendid 
pianist. If he were playing at the present 
day, he would bear comparison with the great- 
est living players. When the Germania dis- 
banded, he went to Paris, made his home in 
that city, and won a popularity which he never 
lost. He died very recently. 

The Germania were the first to play in Bos- 
ton the C'Major Symphony of Schubert, the 
Ninth Symphony by Beethoven, and the Tannr 
hduser overture. 

In 1854 the Society disbanded. The men 
were tired of travelling ; they wanted to set- 
tle down ; and the cities of Baltimore, Phila- 
delphia, New York, and Boston were enriched 
by their presence. Bergmann went to New 
York, and was elected conductor of the New 
York Philharmonic Society, which position he 
held for many years. He died about twelve 
years ago. 

I give a copy of the programme of a typical 
concert given by the Germania, January 28, 
1854 ; assisted by Mrs. Emma A. Wentworth, 
soprano, and Mr. Robert Heller, pianist 



^4 Recollections of an Old Musician 

I. JUBSL OvERTURS .... Idndpaintmr, 
3. Valss Strauss. 

3. Terzetti, from " Attila " ... Verdi. 

4. Cavatina ..... Meyerbeer. 

Mrs. Went WORTH. 

5. Rondo for Piano .... Mendelssohn. 

Mr. Heller. 

6. Potpourri Bergmann, 

7. Quadrille French. 

8. Overture, '^ Midsummer Night's Dream/' 

Mendelssohn. 

9. Galop Lumbye. 

10. Song, " List to the Lark "... Comer. 

Mrs. Wentworth. 

11. Overture, " Siege of Corinth " Rossini. 

Tickets J SO cents. Begin 7 jo. 



CHAPTER VIII 

TH E success of the Germania was the cause 
of much trumpeting all over Europe that 
America was a country which wanted music 
and would pay for it. The Revolution of 
1848 made a big bouleversement of everything 
social and political. Many people had to leave 
their country suddenly, and the great wave of 
emigration from continental Europe then be- 
gan. Germany, Austria, France, and Italy 
were in a frightful financial and political con- 
dition, brought on by the epidemic of revolu- 
tion, which was in plainer language an aspiration 
for freedom. That " gasp " was choked for a 
while, but the spirit is still " marching on." 
Many of our best immigrant musicians came to 
America at that period ; among whom were the 
Germania, and, one year later (in 1849), the 
famous Gungl Orchestra, from Berlin, with 
the composer at its head. Their venture was 
2, fiasco. The orchestra numbered about 
twenty-five. They did not play so well as the 
Germania, consequently did not have the ele- 

' 65 



66 Recollections of an Old Musician 

ments of a possible success. About the only 
souvenir I have of their visit is the hour I 
spent at the first rehearsal of the new waltz 
Traum des Oceans — a fine waltz, probably 
Gungl's best, which was written while on his 
voyage to America. Gungl did not give many 
concerts in Boston, and I think that shortly 
after his visit he returned to Germany. It is 
my impression that he did not take many of 
his men back with him. 

Perhaps the most important visit made by 
any orchestral society was that of JuUien, in 
1853, who brought with him from forty-five to 
fifty men. 

Jullien was a versatile genius, and in all 
respects a very remarkable man. His ability 
as a soloist on many instruments was extraor- 
dinary. I remember hearing him, when I was 
a boy, in Manchester, England, perform solos 
on the violin, piccolo, althorn, French horn, 
cornet, and trombone, — one instrument after 
the other, — displaying virtuosity on each. He 
was well known to be a fine violinist, which 
means that he must have had a natural bent for 
music ; and he had given to it the usual slavish 
devotion — ^without which, dear admirer of the 
violin, do not expect to be anything of a player 
yourself, or to hear a player worth listening to. 



MARIE BARN A. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 67 

The French horn is a very fascinating in- 
strument, but it is an extremely difficult thing 
to attain anything like a mastery of it. The 
man who plays it well can easily master a cor- 
net or althom. The trombone is also diffi- 
cult, but it is a case of family connection ; and 
when you have been thoroughly introduced to 
one member, the brothers, sisters, and cousins 
stand with outstretched hand, ready to be 
wooed. The piccolo needs practice, but with 
the right kind of lips and a year's study, any 
clever musician will be enabled to astonish an 
ordinary audience. 

According to the current history of his day, 
JuUien had been an officer in the French army, 
and was obliged to leave his country on ac- 
count of the inevitable duel. How often they 
happen, and how convenient for public charac- 
ters that the chroniclers of the same are so 
handy! It immediately arouses admiration 
to have fought a duel on account of a 
woman, and though never a scratch is re- 
ceived, it is bound to awaken a good deal of 
interest in the public. JuUien, according to 
report, had to leave France. He took refuge 
in England, played his musical abilities as 
trumps, and won every game. 

This bold, venturesome character discerned 



68 Recollections of an Old Musician 

with rare acuteness the musical needs of the 
London metropolis, which up to his time had 
had no concerts but those given by the old 
societies, which performed classic and an- 
cient music only, and that doubtless in " old- 
fogy " style. 

JuUien saw his chance, gathered together a 
large orchestra, mainly of virtuosi on their 
respective instruments, and gave promenade 
concerts at one shilling. The plan was thor- 
oughly successful. For years he carried all by 
storm. He gave monster concerts in Covent 
Garden or Drury Lane Theatre with immense 
orchestras and military bands. He made and 
lost fortunes ; but he always contrived to se- 
cure great players, and paid them generously, 
which was a new feature in English musical 
history. 

He had the ability to compose stunning big 
things, like the Royal Irish Quadrilles, ditto 
Scotch, ditto English, with endless polkas, 
waltzes, and other dance music. He put to- 
gether every extraordinary instrument which 
he could employ ; any and every thing which 
would make an effective noise, from " jingling 
Johnnies" to church-bells, cannon, and fire- 
works — ^he used them all, and became the 
great popular favoritet His music arranged 



Recollections of an Old Musician 69 

for the pianoforte sold all over England, every 
piece having his faC'Simile autograph stamp 
on the lower right-hand comer, which helped 
to bring him in a share of the profits. 

London likes great shows as well as good 
artistic things. JulHen was just the man for 
the period in which he worked, and certainly 
he thoroughly exploited his versatility. 

He was a master hand at catching the eye 
as well as the ear. At times he would lay out 
a small fortune in decorating the stage with 
plants and flowers ; he knew that the artistic 
and picturesque must never be overlooked. 
The English love flowers ; JuUien recognized 
the fact. They also like well-dressed people. 
JuUien was a rather handsome (if showy) man, 
portly, full-faced, wore side-whiskers only, and 
always got himself up for public show " utterly 
regardless," wearing a "miraculous tie," an 
" immaculate " white vest, and a costly diamond 
in his expansive shirt-front. I forget whether 
he wore lace cuffs or not, but he always sported 
a broad blue ribbon across his vest, with a 
decoration at his throat. 

He had a dais built in the centre of the or- 
chestra, the floor of which was covered with 
white cloth having a gold-lace border. On 
the dais he had a splendid arm-chair of white 



70 Recollections of an Old Musician 

and gold When he directed, he stood up and 
faced the audience, his string forces being on 
either hand, part way between him and the audi- 
ence, but leaving him in full view ; and the 
wood and wind were on each side, with the 
brass in the rear. In conducting dance music 
or anything of a distinctly rhythmical character, 
he would mark the rhythm so graphically with 
his baton that people actually saw it at the end 
of his stick. They could not mistake that, if 
they had eyes. No one was allowed to go to 
sleep. When the various soli obligati were 
forthcoming, he would turn to the players 
thereof ; and the audience then saw him con- 
duct that little or big phrase, give emphasis 
and expression to it, and coax it out with his 
baton — his wizard baton — in such a way that 
seeing and hearing were simply one fact 
JuUien did it all. 

He was in truth a hard-working man. At 
the end of a piece he would drop down into 
the splendid arm-chair, mop his face, and ap- 
pear to be in a state of collapse, which drew 
out enormous applause. Then the great man 
would acknowledge the homage with really 
graceful thanks. It was a great sight — alone 
worth the price of admission. 

JuUien spent money like a king among mu- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 71 

sicians. He took his large band to all the 
prominent cities and towns in Great Britain, 
losing and making money by turns. With the 
same spirit of venturesome confidence, he 
brought his great orchestra to America, and 
with them Mile. Anna Zerr, a world-renowned 
soprano singer. 

The musicians were a splendid set He had 
Bottesini, the Paganini of the contrabass, and 
Koenig, the great cometist of the day, who 
could play with wonderful expression, his 
rendition of the Prima Donna Waltz being 
really an artistic marvel. Then there was the 
oboist, Lavigne, playing with exquisite tone 
and fine technique, who could hold a tone (it 
was said) all the evening by breathing through 
his nostrils while playing. Then there was 
the necromantic flautist, Reichardt, the very 
fine clarinetist, Wuille, and an ophicleide- 
player, Mr. Hughes, who drew out of his in- 
strument a wonderfully soft, large, and mellow 
tone, and played with great execution. Among 
the first violins were the brothers MoUenhauer, 
who were famous as players of duets, and who 
finally settled in this country. In fact so large 
an array of virtuosi has not visited the United 
States since JuUien's day. 

The orchestra played a fair share of classic 



72 Recollections of an Old Musician 

music, alternating with the very popular. I 
remember an occasion in Boston when the 
andante of Beethoven's Second Symphony 
was on their programme. By accident the 
parts for the players were not forthcoming; 
but they played it nevertheless from memory. 
It was not a great feat, perhaps, but it is 
worthy of mention, to show that they were in 
the routine of playing some good music ; evi- 
dently that andante was at their fingers' ends. 

It is not easy to realize how much our musi- 
cal entertainments have changed for the better, 
except by a glance backward at those of the 
preceding age. Just about forty years ago a 
scene was enacted by an assemblage of the 
best musicians of the day in the city of New 
York which would be scarcely credible had it 
not been seen and heard and described to 
me by a friend not given to romancing on 
serious subjects. 

Jullien with his band was performing in the 
Crystal Palace, built, in what was then "up- 
town," in imitation of the London Palace of 
the Great Exposition. The New York build- 
ing was not so large as that, but large enough 
for the time and place. Phineas T. Barnum 
was the directing spirit, and he of course ap- 
pealed to the great popular heart every time. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 73 

His theory — ^possibly a true one at that time, 
and measurably born out by some facts — ^was 
that the aforesaid heart was encased in a 
bumpkin's body, with a childlike intelligence 
and a desire for entertainments of the circus 
order. The more fakes and side-shows the 
merrier. The majority of the entertainments 
were intended to meet that demand and that 
only. Hence the scene in the Palace. 

JuUien was performing a piece entitled JVzg-Ai 
— I cannot now give the composer's name. At 
the beginning the audience was told, either 
orally or by printed notice, that there might 
be some startling effects, but no one need be 
afraid, — all would end well, etc. 

It is not a difficult task to compose an effect- 
ive piece to be called Night with the assist- 
ance of a grand orchestra as the main factor, 
and given an opening of quiet, monotonous 
tones, like Fdlicien David's opening to his 
Desert^ a lullaby, a lover's serenade, and lots 
of such odds and ends, which any good man 
with a lively imagination can invent. At the 
Crystal Palace music of this sort was purring 
along and lulling people into reposeful security 
— all quiet as night should ever be — ^when sud- 
denly the clang of real fire-bells was heard ; 
people jumped from their seats ; there was a 



74 Recollections of an Old Musician 

big commotion ; fire and flames were seen ap- 
parently bursting from the roof of the Palace ; 
ushers were rushing about telling people to 
sit down, for it was a part of the performance ; 
the big doors were swung open, and in rushed 
two or three fire companies with their "ma- 
chines," hose, and great fire-ladders. These 
ladders were raised to the roof, and the fire- 
men, in their traditional red flannel shirts and 
helmets, and carrying speaking-trumpets, 
climbed the ladders. Real water was squirted, 
glass was broken, cries, orders, every sort of 
noise concomitant of a fire was heard, — -plus 
the big orchestra, which was making a fearful 
din, sawing and blowing fortissimo through 
every possible diminished seventh that could 
be raked up out of the musical scale. 

It lasted long enough to make the most tre- 
mendously red-peppered musical sensation that 
mortal ears ever heard. 

It must be understood that all the previously 
distributed notices were not sufficient to pre- 
vent some timid souls from being alarmed. 
The noise and confusion created almost a panic. 
Some were fainting, others bursting with 
laughter, the cooler ones enthusiastically ad- 
miring the well-arranged piece. Finally, the 
fire was put out, the firemen with their ma- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 75 

chines retired, and the orchestra artistically 
prepared the audience for a song of praise and 
thanksgiving which came in the shape of Old 
Hundredy played and sung, and joined in by 
the well-pleased audience. It was a ne plus 
ultra of realistic music. 

JuUien, shortly after his work in the New 
York Crystal Palace, returned to England. 
His visit to America had not been financially 
successful, — indeed it seemed to have been his 
Waterloo. He did not perform much more ; 
he had " played out his many parts." His old 
admirers deserted him. Financial distress and 
sickness overtook him, and he came to a sud- 
den and sad ending in an insane asylum. 



CHAPTER IX 

IT has always been an open question whether 
Boston made the Handel and Haydn So- 
ciety or the Handel and Haydn Society made 
Boston. 

The Society has been almost an integral 
part of the city since 1815, the year of its 
formation. If we consider the total result, — 
the beneficial and wide-spread influence of the 
Society on the great mass of New England 
people, — then we can comprehend how much 
honor it has unvaryingly reflected on Boston. 

I wish to disclaim any pretension to writing 
an accurate history of any Boston musical so- 
ciety before I was a working member of any 
of them. I shall only try to tell something of 
what they did, and how they did it, in my time. 

When I was engaged to play clarinet in the 
Handel and Haydn Society, it was a very 
cosy domestic institution. I cannot say 
whether there was or was not a regular mu- 
sic conductor that first season. I remember 
distinctly that good old "father" Jonas Chick- 

76 



Recollections of an Old Musician 77 

ering did often beat time while they had their 
"sing." These meetings were always hefd 
(according to their By-Laws), and are still, 
on Sunday evenings, from the first Sunday in 
October to the last Sunday in May. 

Like most societies of the period, the Han- 
del and Haydn was composed of both instru- 
mental and vocal members. Amateur players 
comprised about two thirds, and professionals 
one third, of the orchestra The profession- 
als were engaged to ** help out." We were 
paid the modest sum of two dollars for each 
evening, whether concert or rehearsal, every 
Sunday through the season. It was an invalu- 
able apprenticeship. I believe that musicians 
of the present day, who do not have the slow 
building-up through the regular performance 
of oratorios, lose a schooling no other music 
can give. Old Bostonians were great gainers 
by being permeated with the Messiah, the 
Israel in Egypt, Samson, Jephtha, Solomon, 
Saul, Judas Maccahceus, Acis and Galatea, and 
Esther, all by Handel ; the Creation, the Sea- 
sons, and masses, by Haydn ; the Elijah, St. 
Paul, and the Hymn of Praise, by Mendels- 
sohn ; and the Requiem and other masses, by 
Mozart. 

Nor did the Society stop with the above 



78 Recollections of an Old Musician 

w,orks. They were right catholic in their 
tastes. They gave operas founded on sacred 
histories, such as Moses in Egypt^ by Rossini ; 
the Martyrs^ by Donizetti, and Nabucco, by 
Verdi. The Moses had a popular run for several 
seasons. Rossini was then in vogue. Indeed 
the great arias with their quite tremendous 
instrumental solo introductions, and the effect- 
ive concerted pieces and finales of dramatic 
energy, would be startling even at the present 
day. 

Time brought changes. The amateur play- 
ers dropped off. The ** Profs " were released 
from Sunday attendance. The Society began 
to engage orchestras of professional players for 
a definite number of concerts only. 

Various conductors have contributed their 
share towards the musical development of the 
Society. 

Mr. Charles Horn, the English song-writer, 
was, I believe, imported in order to bring out 
the oratorio of Elijah. I think he was followed 
by John L. Hatton. This gentleman was a 
very fine musician and composer, an excellent 
pianist, and, ntirahle dictUy an exceptionally 
fine, unctuous singer of comic songs. 

Think of it, classicists of the present day, — 
the director of the Handel and Haydn Society 



Recollections of an Old Musician 79 

a famous singer of comic songs ! I can assure 
my readers, though, that when Mr. Hatton 
sang The Little Fat Man^ Bluebeard^ or The 
Jolly Young Oysterman (words by Oliver 
Wendell Holmes, music by Hatton), he satis^ 
fied very largely the aesthetic tastes of the day. 
It is also to be remembered that there are 
comic songs and comic songs. Those Mr. 
Hatton sang were distinctly musical, with piano 
accompaniments like those by Franz or Grieg. 

Mr. Hatton's versatility was great I re- 
member an instance of it. One Saturday night 
in a Musical Fund concert, he played Men- 
delssohn's D-Minor Piano Concerto^ — ^that be- 
ing its first performance in Boston. Later, in 
the same concert, he sang some comic songs. 
The next evening, in the same hall, in a Han- 
del and Haydn concert, he conducted a per^ 
f ormance of the Elijah. The singer of the title 
rdle was suddenly indisposed and unable to sing. 
Mr. Hatton, through the entire performance, 
sang the part of " Elijah," — turning around to 
face the audience when singing, yet continu- 
ing to conduct the forces. He sang the music 
in artistic style and with a good, full voice. 

Mr. Hatton stayed in Boston about two sea- 
sons, and was a splendid worker in the musical 
life of the city. 



8o Recollections of an Old Musician 

There was a Mr. Davidson, who conducted 
for part of a season only. He was followed 
by Mr. Charles C. Perkins, who filled the office 
of conductor and president of the society for 
several years. Mr. Perkins was a devoted 
patron of music, and indeed of all the fine arts. 
He was of the true noblesse^ almost un-Ameri- 
can in his patrician-like devotion to and work- 
ing for the advancement of art A graduate 
of Harvard, he had spent some years in Europe 
studying music and painting. Returning to 
Boston, he mingled actively in the musical life 
of the city, and for years he had a musical even- 
ing at his house each week. Chamber music 
by the Mendelssohn Quintette Club and our 
best local or visiting pianists did good service 
then and there by familiarizing devotees of 
music with excerpts of the best kind. At Mr. 
Perkins's house was heard for the first time 
Schumann's Piano Qnintette^ with Mr. William 
Scharfenberg (recently deceased) at the piano. 
I remember the occurrence well. We young 
artists were so stirred up and excited by the 
Quintette that when we ended its last note 
we simply turned our parts back again to the 
beginning and played the whole work once 
more, can amore, 

Mr. Perkins was a zealous worker for the 



CARL ZERF1AHN. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 8i 

building of the Boston Music Hall ; and he 
did himself and the city of Boston honor by 
presenting to the Hall the splendid bronze 
statue of Beethoven, by Crawford, the sculptor. 
Later on he was an equally ardent worker for 
the building and founding of the Art Museum ; 
and for years he devoted much time to teach- 
ing and lecturing on art subjects in the Normal 
School. He was a fairly good pianist, and had 
composed a number of pieces of chamber music, 
— ^trios, quartettes, and a septette for piano and 
strings. Wherever his money, labor, or influ- 
ence could reach, they were actively employed 
for the advancement of art. And since his 
tragic death, no one has stepped forward to 
quite take his place. 

The next conductor and pilot of the society 
was Mr. Carl Zerrahn, who was for many years 
at the helm. Advanced age alone induced 
him, at the beginning of the season of 1895, 
to retire from his responsible position. 

Taking Mr. Zerrahn in all points, he was 
and is still a rare man. He has filled a long 
life with honor to himself and satisfaction to 
those who came in contact with him. First 
showing good ability as the director of the 
Orchestral Union, he afterward became the con- 
ductor of the Harvard Symphony Concerts, the 

6 



82 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Handel and Haydn Society, and the Worcester 
Festivals. He was always much in demand in 
New England, and in fact from Maine to Cali- 
fornia. He possessed one trait of character 
which manifested itself during the laborious 
working of a music festival. 

Let us suppose that the festival began at 9 
A.M. on Monday, and continued with rehearsals 
or performances till Saturday night : I can tes- 
tify, from personal experience while assisting in 
the festivals, that Mr. Zerrahn was always as 
fresh, as full of interest, and as energetic at the 
last hour as he was at the first. In that par- 
ticular trait, which every musician knows to be 
an important one, he was a matchless man. 

He was also very firm and earnest in action, 
amiable in temper, and considerate of the short- 
comings of the many inexperienced performers 
who came under his baton. He was never 
known to show up the weakness of an artist to 
the public ; neither the highest nor the hum- 
blest assistant ever received a discourteous 
word from him. He was and is still a rare man 
indeed ; and unquestionably is enthroned in 
the hearts of very large numbers of those who 
cam*e under his direction. 

Another man worthy of being singled out is 
Dr. J. P. Upham, for many years president of 



Recollections of an Old Musician 83 

the Handel and Haydn Society, who as an 
executive officer and organizer was quite Na- 
poleonic. It was mainly through his labors 
that sufficient interest was aroused to purchase 
the great organ for the Music Hall, His 
master work in Boston, however, was in creat- 
ing a strong popular belief in the benefits aris- 
ing from the teaching of music in the public 
schools, and in the further wisdom of holding 
a yearly exhibition, in the shape of a School 
Music Festival, to show the total results 
thereof. 

I cannot end my friendly record of the Handel 
and Haydn Society without mentioning the 
untiring service of the two ** war secretaries," 
Loring B. Barnes and J. Parker Brown. The 
latter has also been for many years the presi- 
dent of the society. Every man of experience 
in the management of societies knows that 
there are times when much zeal and tact, per- 
sonal influence, and unceasing vigilance, alone 
** keep the machine running." Those are the 
qualities which win victory from threatening 
defeat. Mr. Barnes and Mr. Brown have 
merited great praise for the forethought and 
foresight displayed while engaging the array 
of artists for the many Handel and Haydn 
Festivals; they were doubtless inspired by 



84 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Santa Cecilia, the sweet patroness of music, to 
make the sacrifices on her altars so willingly 
performed by all her devotees. 

Mr. B. J. Lang, the almost lifelong organist 
and steadfast helper of the Handel and Haydn 
Society, and for a time the successor of Carl 
Zerrahn as conductor, has shown in countless 
ways such consummate skill, tact, and artistic 
judgment that he has won the admiration of 
all musicians. He is a man of marked charac- 
ter, a typical American, ambitious and indus- 
trious. I have known him since his boyhood, 
when he lived with his parents in their quiet 
home in Salem, Mass. I used to meet him fre- 
quently on the train for Boston, where he went 
to take piano or organ lessons, and I noticed 
that he prepared his harmony lessons while en 
route. In this way the youth grew up, system- 
atically laying the foundation for his future 
usefulness. Now at maturity he has the repu- 
tation of being a distinguished pianist, organ- 
ist, teacher, and general director. A few 
sentences will suffice to outline the life of the 
busy artist since he made his dibut at fifteen 
years of age in one of the Mendelssohn Quin- 
tette Club's concerts. 

Mr. Lang has always been a hard student, 
and is known by his friends to be a progres- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 85 

sive man, with many new and bright ideas. 
While still very young he organized, in 1862, 
a couple of concerts, in which he appeared as 
the conductor of a large orchestra, chorus, 
and soloists, in two performances of the Wal- 
purgis Nacht. He thus entered upon a broad, 
artistic life, and has continued in the same 
path. He has been the conductor of the 
Apollo Club since its formation in 1871, and 
also of the St. Cecilia Club. The first concert 
of the latter was given November 19, 1874, 
orchestra assisting. The programme con- 
sisted of several part-songs and the Walpurgis 
Nacht, by Mendelssohn. One of the most 
notable accomplishments of Mr. Lang was 
the bringing out of the Passion-Play of Parsifal 
by Richard Wagner. At great expense he 
brought from New York the entire Seidl Or- 
chestra, which had recently played the work 
in that city. It was a bold and brilliant 
stroke. No other performance of the great 
composition has been vouchsafed Boston. 

It is a great pleasure to be able to give a 
slight sketch of his daughter, Margaret Ruth- 
ven Lang. She was born in 1867, and in- 
herits the musical ability of her parents. Her 
mother is well known as an amateur singer of 
great refinement. Miss Lang, therefore, has 



86 Recollections of an Old Musician 

had a musical education which has been care- 
fully directed in every detail. She has attained 
a position which places her among the four 
foremost female composers of the world, the 
other three being Chaminade and Holmes of 
Paris, and Mrs. Beach of Boston. 

Miss Lang began writing music when about 
twelve years old. Among her first composi- 
tions were a quintette of one movement for 
strings and piano, and several songs. She 
began the study of the pianoforte under one 
of her father's pupils, and later continued it 
under his direction. Some time after this 
she studied the violin with Louis Schmidt in 
Boston, and continued it under Drechsler 
and Abel, in Munich, during the winters of 
1886-1887. While in Munich she also studied 
composition with Victor Gluth. 

On returning to Boston in 1887, she took 
up the study of orchestration with G. W. 
Chadwick, since which time she has written a 
large number of compositions, many of which 
have had great success. 

W^r Dramatic Overture^ op. 12, was per- 
formed by the Boston Symphony Orchestra, 
under Nikisch, on April 8, 1893 I 1^^^ overture 
Wtttckzs, op. 10, was performed in Chicago 
under Theodore Thomas, at two concerts, in 



Recollections of an Old Musician 87 

July and August, 1893 ; and at a third con- 
cert under Bendix. Both of these composi- 
tions are in manuscript ; also a third overture, 
op. 23, Totila. Of other works for orchestra, 
composed later, are three arias : one for alto, 
Sappho^ s Prayer to Aphrodite^ performed in 
New York in 1896 ; one for soprano, Armida, 
performed at the Boston Symphony Concert, 
January 13, 1896 ; and one for baritone, Phoebus. 



CHAPTER X 

AMONG the many artists with whom I 
have come in contact, none had a per- 
sonality which made a greater impression on me 
than Ole Bull. His magnificent figure, that 
head of long hair and the way he had of throw- 
ing it back to keep it out of his eyes when 
performing, made a picture which memory 
easily retains. His career as a virtuoso in 
America and Europe is too well known to 
require much mention of it here. 

The question has often been put to me : 
What kind of an artist was Ole Bull ? It was 
a question difficult to answer, and I tried to 
follow the example of wise men, and diplomat- 
ically evade giving a musical opinion. I shall 
use the same tactics now. There are a few 
points, though, that I have never seen brought 
out in any criticism. 

The apothegm of President Lincoln, ** You 
can't fool all the people all the time," comes 
into play in this case. There were many 
reasons for Ole Bull's great popularity. He 

88 



Recollections of an Old Musician 89 

had some remarkable points in technique ; for 
instance, his marvelous staccato; also his trick 
of playing a four-part harmony on an almost 
flat bridge. His rendition of The Mother's 
Prayer was a finished performance, while that 
of The Arkansas Traveller was simply a stroke 
of genius in its way. 

A poor way, the musician will say. Of 
course it was, but it was a way by which he 
gained great popularity. I heard him play The 
Arkansas Traveller once ; I shall never forget 
it. The piece opened with a short introduc- 
tion, — a quiet, plaintive air, — ^at the conclusion 
of which he gently lifted up his right foot, 
much in the old-grandfather manner of beat- 
ing time; then he suddenly brought down 
that foot with tremendous force on the un- 
carpeted stage and dashed off into the most 
reckless, mad, and intoxicated jig any dancer 
ever heard to start the fever of dancing within 
him. It was startling. 

Our Quintette Club was engaged to play 
with Ole Bull for a week. He was requested to 
play first violin in one of Mozart's quintettes, — 
a first movement only. We had to stand up 
while playing it. To sit down and play was an 
impossibility for the heroic Ole. At the time 
of the first Jubilee in Boston, he and Carl Rosa 



90 Recollections of an Old Musician 

played at the first desk of violins. We all 
thought it noble of him to take part. 

Ole Bull had all the fine traits of the success- 
ful player. After each of his performances there 
was usually great applause. When he came 
out on the stage to acknowledge the compli- 
ment, his manner was so uncommonly graceful, 
so stately-courteous, as he bowed right and 
left, that the audience was, if possible, more 
completely captured than when he was playing 
to them. 

Ole Bull visited the United States for the 
first time in 1843. He returned to Europe, 
but revisited America many times. He had 
great happiness in the last part of his life, 
resulting from his marriage with an American 
woman of unusual distinction of character. 
He died in the home he had created for his 
family on a picturesque island in one of Nor- 
way's wonderful fjords. 

Boston had another remarkable man to 
help in the building up of a refined taste for 
music, — Julius Eichberg. 

Mr. Eichberg came to this country in 1847, 
and was in New York for two years. In 1849 
he removed to Boston, and was appointed 
director of music in the Boston Museum. 
While in that position he composed and pro- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 91 

duced several operettas of charming quality, 
notably the Doctor of Alcantara^ though as a 
composer he was academic. In that vein he 
wrote a good quintette for strings, which was 
played by our Club ; also a concerto for four 
violins, which was performed at a benefit 
concert for the Musical Union. 

In 1867 he established the Boston Conser- 
vatory of Music, which was chiefly a violin 
school of great value, and which is still at 
work, under the direction of Mr. Herbert P. 
Chelius. Mr. Eichberg was a fine violinist and 
a maa of culture. He was thoroughly ap- 
preciated in our community, and was for many 
years the general supervisor and director of 
music for all the high schools of Boston, in 
which capacity he did good work for the people 
of the " Modem Athens," 



CHAPTER XI 

THE Mendelssohn Quintette Club may be 
said to be like Topsy, — " not born but 
just growed." 

The members of the Club were : 

August Fries, ist violin; Francis Riha, 2d 
violin ; Edward Lehman, viola and flute ; 
Thomas Ryan, viola and clarinet ; Wulf 
Fries, violoncello. 

Its real career began with its first public 
concert in Boston, December, 1849. 

This was the programme : 

1. Quintette in A, op. 18 . . . Mendelssohn. 

Four Movements. 

2. La Melancolie, solo for violin . . Prume, 

Mr. Francis Riha. 

3. Trio for Flute, Violin, and Violoncello, on 

themes from the opera of " Zampa," by Harold. 

Kalliwoda. 
Messrs. Lehman, August and Wulf Fries. 

4. Fifth Air Vari6 for Clarinet. . . F, Berr. 

Mr. Thomas Ryan. 

5. Quintette in E flat, op. 4 . . Beethoven, 

Four Movements. 
92 



Recollections of an Old Musician 93 

That programme was certainly a notable 
one — fit for to-day's use. We had set our 
standard high ; and have never lowered it 
during our almost fifty years of service. 

The custom of the period, which prohibited 
theatrical performances Saturdays, gave the 
musicians entire freedom on those days. Mr. 
August Fries and his brother Wulf, members 
of the National Theatre Orchestra, were de- 
voted quartette players, and they always util- 
ized their precious freedom on Saturdays by 
getting their confreres together to play quar- 
tettes with them. In this way the foundation 
was laid for the formation of the Quintette 
Club. The Fries brothers enlisted the interest 
of Messrs. Gierlow, Greuner, and Lehman. 
These five began to play for their own enjoy- 
ment, and after a while they played at a few 
concerts outside of Boston before I was a 
member. 

In 1849, Mr. August Fries gave violin les- 
sons to Mr. John Bigelow, of the well-known 
firm, Bigelow Brothers & Kennard, jewellers. 
By invitation of Mr. Bigelow these five artists 
spent many of their Saturday evenings at his 
house. Having the pleasure of Mr. Bigelow's 
acquaintance, I also was at his house on most 
of these occasions and to use the common ex- 



94 Recollections of an Old Musician 

pression, it made me " just crazy " to play with 
them. 

One day I said in jest to August Fries," You '11 
do nothing till I am a member of the Men- 
delssohn Quintette Club." Shortly after, one 
of the gentlemen, Mr. Greuner, removed to 
Lowell, and I was invited to take his place. 
Then Mr. Gierlow resigned, and Francis Riha, 
the former leader of the Steyermark Orchestra, 
took his place and thus became the second 
violin. We played very much together and 
got into fine trim. 

Mr. Bigelow, who was our fatherly friend, 
and remained such all through life, suggested 
that we should prepare to give concerts, and 
make that a part of our life-work. The ques- 
tion of a name naturally came up. Mendelssohn 
was on the top of the musical wave at that 
time, and, as we had practised his quintette. 
Opus 1 8, till we could venture to play it in 
public, it was determined to call our party, 
The Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston. 
We gave our first concert by invitation, in 
Jonas Chickering's piano rooms, then on 
Washington Street^ nearly opposite the Adams 
House. 

Framed under glass in my home, I have one 
of the little modest notes of invitation to that 



Recollections of an Old Musician 95 

concert, sent to about two hundred people; 
also the little yellow tissue-paper programme, 
three inches by five, printed for the memorable 
occasion. 

We jumped into favor at once, gave a set 
of four subscription concerts, and afterward a 
supplementary set in old Cochituate Hall 
(Phillips Place), where now is Houghton & 
Button's store. 

Then for us young men began a kind of 
belle's life. We were in demand ever5^where, — 
not only for single concerts, but for sets of 
four or more, — in places like Salem, Lowell, 
Lawrence, Haverhill, Taunton, New Bedford, 
Providence, and Worcester. Concerts, in sets, 
were usually held once a fortnight. 

There were no dramatic or operatic com- 
panies to visit such places ; but the lyceum 
system was well established everywhere. Each 
town and city had its organized sets of lectures. 
In Boston there were two library associations 
that were rivals ; and the astutest generalship 
was displayed in capturing the great lecture 
guns of the day, — Wendell Phillips, Geo. W. 
Curtis, Mr. Whipple, Mr. Agassiz, and others. 
It is recorded that the president of one of these 
societies, calling on Mr. Agassiz at a period 
when he was working enthusiastically on one 



96 Recollections of an Old Musician 

of his books, laid down before Mr. Agassiz a 
blank check, duly signed, that the latter 
could fill out to any amount for a lectureJ Mr. 
Agassiz simply said that his time was "too 
precious," he could " not afford to work for 
money." Those were the halcyon days of the 
lecture field. 

In order to appreciate the environment of 
the Quintette Club during our early years, we 
have but to remember that Boston, within a 
radius of one hundred miles, had a very large 
number of towns and cities of active working 
communities. With the exception of a few 
places like Providence, Worcester, and Port- 
land, these towns had no theatres ; their only 
entertainments were lectures or concerts, and 
these were mostly given in churches ; so we had 
all New England to ourselves (as far as sup- 
plying music was concerned) for many years. 

Parlor concerts were in vogue. In Cam- 
bridge, for instance, we had for fifteen con- 
secutive seasons a set of eight parlor concerts, 
given in the houses of the professors or other 
friends of music. The programmes were of 
good music only. We also had for years sets 
of parlor concerts in places like Milton and 
New Bedford. 

In this same period the "Yankee singing- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 97 

school" and the so-called "musical conventions" 
flourished. The latter were held for years in 
Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, and Mas- 
sachusetts. The singers of these different 
States had organized governing boards that 
appointed the time of meeting and engaged 
the music director and assisting artists. The 
chorus of singers chiefly studied so-called " sa- 
cred music," and usually wound up their week's 
labor with an oratorio performance. 

The members of the "musical conventions" 
usually began their rehearsals on Monday at 
nine a.m., and continued till noon. The after- 
noon session was from two to four, and 
was largely given up to solo singing or play- 
ing by our Club. It also afforded an oppor- 
tunity for the amateurs of the State to display 
their ability in public. Many of the young 
singers afterward became noted in the mu- 
sical world Among them was Annie Louise 
Cary, who acquired a European operatic repu- 
tation that placed her in the front rank among 
great singers. From this kind of training, 
too, came Mrs. H. M. Smith, Mrs. Mozart, 
Jenny Kempton, Myron Whitney, James 
Whitney (tenor), and a host of others too 
numerous to mention. 

The evenings of the conventions were gen- 
7 



98 Recollections of an Old Musician 

erally devoted to mixed music, in which the 
chorus took part Nearly every oratorio 
worthy of mention — entire or in part — ^was 
thus familiarized to people who lived in the 
remotest parts of New England. 

This little history will account for the possi- 
bility of assembling, on occasions like the Gil- 
more Peace Jubilees, a chorus numbering five 
to ten thousand singers who were at home in 
oratorio music. Outside of New England no 
similar condition existed. 

The singing-school and the musical conven- 
tions no longer command the same popular 
interest, for which various reasons can be ad- 
duced. The main one is the fact that entertain- 
ments and professional entertainers of all kinds 
have multiplied. The people prefer seeing the 
game of baseball played by experts to playing 
the game themselves. The same thing is true 
of the people's enjoyment of music. 

Whatever be the cause, we know that in 
towns and small cities, the old music societies 
have generally ceased to exist. The singing- 
school teachers who began in New England 
are now scattered over the West They have 
carried with them their old home ways ; for in- 
stance, Mr. Amos Whiting, formerly of Worces- 
ter, Mass., who removed to Pittsburg, Pa., 



Recollections of an Old Musician 99 

and at once began work on the old singing- 
school and convention plan. In a few years 
he roused enough interest in that community 
to project and carry through a magnificent 
festival, in which Madame Nilsson and her 
troupe of singers took part in an oratorio. 
Mrs. Whiting has been doing the same thing 
in Toledo, Ohio. I could mention other 
teachers, but the instances given are fair types 
of the fraternity. 

While on the subject of musical conven- 
tions and New England singers, I wish to in- 
terject a remark, — not as a compliment on the 
one' hand, nor as a defamation on the other, — 
namely : in the conventions it was often the 
case that Rossini's Stabat Mater was per- 
formed, and I can aver that the most perfect 
singing of the two quartettes (concerted) in 
that work was often done by Mrs. H. M. 
Smith, soprano ; Miss Annie Louise Gary, 
alto : Mr. James Whitney, tenor ; Mr. Myron 
Whitney, bass. The intonation of those sing- 
ers was as positively perfect as any musician 
could desire to hear. 

In contradistinction, I think no musician can 
speak favorably of the performance of the 
same works by any combination of so-called 
great or distinguished artists that he has since 



loo Recollections of an Old Musician 

heard in the United States. The reasons are 
not far to seek. The so-called "great " people 
generally are only good in solo work, where 
they can ** shine I " They do not, they will 
not, sacrifice their individual art to ensure a 
good ensemble. They never, for the sake of 
the true rendition of these quartettes, so chro- 
matically difficult, are willing to rehearse them 
till they are fairly perfect. They, the artists, 
must be considered before the music. 

Our home-bred singers were not made on 
that pattern — ^they strove for perfection, and 
very nearly reached it At least that is my 
opinion, and I here put it on record. " Let 
justice be done though the heavens fall." 



ANNIE LOUISE C 



CHAPTER XII 

AMONG the singers who about twenty 
years ago gained American and Euro- 
pean celebrity, easily stands pre-eminent Annie 
Louise Gary, now Mme. Raymond. As a con- 
tralto singer, in concert, oratorio, or opera, she 
won all hearts with her superb voice and ex- 
pressive vocalization. A native of the State of 
Maine, — ^born and reared near Portland, — she 
h^ in many ways shown a filial love for her 
State and endeared herself, one may say for- 
ever, to its people. 

When she was at the height of her profes- 
sional glory, she fitted up at her own expense 
a ** Gary Room " in the Maine General Hos- 
pital, and that room is to be kept up at her ex- 
pense to the end of her days. That is an act 
I deem worthy to be placed on record, and I 
hope it may often be imitated. Yet it is but 
one of the many good acts of the brave Amer- 
ican girl. 

To return to the history of the Mendelssohn 

lOI 



I02 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Club, we were by no means paddling our own 
little Quintette ** canoe " only, but were active 
members of the different orchestras of the 
Musical Fund, the Orchestral Union, the 
Harvard Association, and the Boston Sym- 
phony, each in turn as they came into action. 

The Orchestral Union was made up from 
our best musicians, — about forty in number, — 
Carl Zerrahn being the director. The con- 
certs were held in Music Hall on Wednesday 
afternoons only. The entrance fee was mod- 
erate. Programmes were of mixed music : 
an overture, symphony, waltz, characteristic 
pieces, and opera selections. The great organ 
in Music Hall was built about the time the 
Union began their concerts. Our best organ- 
ists were invited in turn to play organ solos at 
each concert The Union existed about ten 
years, then ended its life for lack of support. 

The friends of symphonic music, hungering 
for the best in quality, organized in 1865 the 
Harvard Musical Association. Mr. Carl Zer- 
rahn was engaged as conductor, and, with an 
efficient orchestra, gave programmes of sym- 
phonic music. In the first three years, eight 
concerts were given each season ; then for ten 
seasons, ten concerts. The number was re- 
duced to eight for the next three seasons, and 



Recollections of an Old Musician 103 

in the last season but five were given ; making 
in all seventeen seasons. The programmes 
were worthy models for any society which 
means to be educative ; to interest the best- 
music lovers, and yet to remember the large 
army of those who desire the simplest sort of 
music. Finally, in spite of the wisdom exer- 
cised by the directors, interest in the concerts 
waned and they ended. 

In 1880 the worthy benefactor, Mr. Henry 
L. Higginson, founded the Boston Symphony 
Orchestra. That orchestra has made its own 
record, which is simply one of increasing per- 
fection. It is now perhaps the model orchestra 
of the world ; and every good citizen of Boston 
has reason to be proud of the honors it wins 
for its founder and the city of its birth. 

Up to the year 1863, when the Quintette 
Club first travelled in the West, we gave each 
year eight subscription concerts in Boston. 
The old friends and supporters remained 
faithful to us, and were part of our glory. 
Their faces and names rise before me as I 
write. 

First, there is our good old father, John 
Bigelow, who with his family nearly always sat 
in the front seats. Mr. Bigelow was an in- 
spiration. He had a pair of hands of generous 



I04 Recollections of an Old Musician 

proportions, and when he applauded the house 
went with him. When he was not present, it 
was comparatively a dull night One may 
talk of horses sniffing the smoke of battle, but 
it is a faint figure of speech compared to the 
sniffing of artists for applause. It is whip and 
spur to them. 

In these classic soirees of ours, we have 
played every composition for strings worth 
playing ; and have given also special sets of 
concerts where only the most modem works, 
like the Brahms sextettes, Bruch, Goldmark, 
and Rubinstein, were played We also gave 
for many seasons the so-called popular Satur- 
day night concerts; for which we secured 
other artists to play septettes, octettes, and 
nonettes of mixed wind and string instruments. 
Nearly every pianist of distinction played 
repeatedly with us; among them were Mr. 
William Scharfenberg, Otto Dresel, Ernst 
Perabo, J. C. D. Parker, B. J. Lang, Hugo 
Leonard, Gustav Satter, J. Trenkle, John L. 
Hatton, and Miss Fay (now Mrs. Sherwood). 

Singers also helped us in large numbers. 
One was Mile. Caroline Lehman, sister of 
our flute player, who came from Copenhagen 
and sang with us two seasons. Other vocal 
assistants were Mrs. J. H. Long, Mrs. Went- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 105 

worth, Mrs. Harwood, Miss Addie S. Ryan, 
Mrs. H. M. Smith, Adelaide Phillips, and 
Annie Louise Cary — all good singers. I think 
it can be safely said that the Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club has done its share in cultivating 
a taste for music, especially chamber music. 

It is next in order to tell my readers some- 
thing of the musical and personal qualities of 
the members of the Mendelssohn Quintette 
Club. 

Naturally I begin with August Fries. He 
was a good, genuine violinist, especially in 
quartette. He played with deep sentiment, was 
painstaking, and no rehearsals were too long for 
him. He was the broadest man, had the oldest 
head, of the organization, and was altogether a 
good leader. In his social character he was 
full of geniality, could be the life and spirit of 
every party, and he thus endeared himself to a 
very large number of personal friends. He 
had the old-world habit (a charming one) of 
studying beforehand how a social evening could 
be most pleasantly spent It was always clear 
to his friends that he had interested himself to 
plan for their pleasure. That fact was the key 
to his character, — ^he accustomed himself to 
think of others. Whether it was a picnic, 
sail, dance, or musical evening, he was the 



io6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

leader in it alL He was very firm in purpose 
and set in his way ; he could not accommodate 
himself to some things ; but sterling integrity 
was the main point in his make-up. He was 
an excellent man for younger people to start 
with. 

August Fries stayed with us ten years. He 
then returned to Bergen, in Norway, where he 
has lived ever since, with the exception of a 
visit to Boston about twenty years ago, when 
for one season he filled the post of concert- 
master with the Harvard Association. 

Mr. Wulf Fries, brother to August, was and 
is a good 'cellist. He is so well known through- 
out the country that eulogistic words from me 
are unnecessary. It is not easy to find a 'cellist 
for all general playing who produces a tone 
comparable to that of Fries ; and we have had 
in the Club some of the best 'cellists of this 
country, — namely : Fries for twenty-two years ; 
the splendid 'cellist, Rudolph Hennig, of 
Philadelphia, for eight years; Giese, a great 
player, for four or five years; and Hekking 
for one year. For certain work and tone. 
Fries was up to the level of them all. His 
personal friends can be counted in legions. 

Mr. Francis Riha, our second violin, was a 
brilliant player in every way, with considerable 



Recollections of an Old Musician 107 

ability as a composer. He was the handsome 
man of the party, — much petted but not spoiled. 
He stayed with us five years, and then went 
south for a milder climate, but returned to New 
York when the war began. 

Edward Lehman, a good flute and viola 
player, stayed with us four years, and then re- 
turned to Copenhagen, where he was the solo 
flute with Lumbye for years. 



CHAPTER XIII 

NOW is the time to ask, in the words of the 
old song, " Where are the friends of my 
youth ? " They are scattered like the leaves of 
past autumns ; but the memory of many of 
them remains as a rich inheritance. 

One of the noblest of the band was "old 
Jonas Chickering." In fancy I can see him 
now in his workshop in the big factory on 
Washington Street. He was a medium-sized 
man with a most kindly face. When at work 
he wore a white linen apron, and naturally 
was " in his shirt-sleeves." His special task 
was to cover all the hammers for his best piano- 
fortes with buckskin, — an important thing in 
those days, before the invention of the white 
felt now used ; which comes, so to speak, 
ready-made to glue on to the hammers from 
bass to soprano. Mr. Chickering could be 
generally found with a sharp knife in hand pre- 
paring the hammers. If customers called, ladies 
or gentlemen, he simply put down his knife 
and waited on them ; that was the old style. 

io8 



Recollections of an Old Musician 109 

He had taken a fatherly interest in me, and 
I frequently found myself in his den, telling 
him my dreams and aspirations ; and I know 
other young musicians who were often with 
him. He liked their chatter, and exchanged 
good counsel for it It was a way he had. 
From the time that our Quintette Club gave 
its first concert in his rooms, he was a great 
help and generous subscriber. 

One day I said to him, " Mr. Chickering, 
you are everlastingly doing much for us, — can- 
not we do something for you ? For instance, 
it would be a great pleasure if we could give 
you a musical evening at your house." He 
smiled, thanked me, and said perhaps he would 
have one. Months after, he arranged for the 
evening and we greatly enjoyed it. Some little 
time passed by. I went into his den one day, 
and had my usual chat with him. When I 
was about to leave he said, " By the way, 
Mr. Ryan, Mr. Childs, the bookkeeper, wishes 
to see you." I saw Mr. Childs, and he handed 
me a check for fifty dollars. To cut my 
story short, there was no use in protesting ; 
Mr. Chickering insisted on my taking the 
money. That was the style of the " upright," 
** square," " grand " old man. 

I am sure that this incident is but a sample 



I lo Recollections of an Old Musician 

of the way in which he helped many young 
musicians; and it is an open secret that the 
father's ways were inherited by his noble sons, 
of whom George only is living. 

When I speak of Mr. Jonas Chickering, the 
head of the great house, working and waiting 
on ladies in his shirt-sleeves, all people of my 
age will understand it without mental ques- 
tion or comment It will not be so well un- 
derstood by people of the present day, who, 
almost to the verge of the absurd, feel that 
they must not be visible except in full dress ; 
to be seen working with an apron on would be 
to voluntarily place themselves in a humbler 
(to use soft words) stratum of society. 

But let me tell you, boys, what was done 
once by the man who wore the white linen 
apron. One sad night, his great factory on 
Washington Street was burned down. At 
daylight on the following morning a contract 
was signed, purchasing a lot of land on Tre- 
mont Street, and within twenty-four hours the 
building of another great factory was started. 
It has been, and is, a noble pile, — ^that work- 
shop and factory of the Chickerings. I think 
great credit is due to the man who had so 
much foresight as to place his factory where 
the city would grow to it Mr. Chickering 



JOMAS CHICKERING. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 1 1 

was at that time the honored president of the 
Mechanics Charitable Association. His his- 
tory ought to encourage young men to wear 
white linen aprons, if necessary, without fear 
or shame. 

The next good old friend who rises into 
memory is Mr. Thomas Power, the clerk of 
the police court for many years. He was a 
curious mixture. In his official routine he 
was a terror to evil-doers ; the presiding judge 
was of little account in comparison. When 
Mr. Power revealed the depravity of the 
" he " or " she " under arrest, and the number 
of times he or she had already been up be- 
fore his Honor, and the long list of broken 
promises to reform, there was a something in 
the tone of his voice which distinctly implied, 
not only grief, but utter absence of hope that 
people of that kind would ever obtain a foot- 
hold in the good part of the next world. It 
then became a case of "Who enters here 
leaves hope behind," for the culprit was shortly 
sentenced to three or six months in jail. 

Mr. Power, when thus officially employed, 
was the most " solemncholy " man I ever met 
But out of the court room he was a really 
genial soul, the prince of good fellows, a fa- 
mous story-teller, and positively a lovable man. 



112 Recollections of an Old Musician 

I recall one of his queer stories. He had 
been authorized by his Honor, the judge, to 
obtain a legal opinion on a certain point from 
the Hon. Rufus Choate. Mr. Choate's chi- 
rography was notoriously the worst ever seen, 
and must have been like that made by the 
traditional fly when it crawled out of the ink- 
bottle into which it had accidentally fallen. 
The opinion was obtained, and was in Mr. 
Choate's characteristic handwriting. Poor 
"Tom Power" looked at it, as he said, "up- 
side down, right side up, and crosswise," but 
it was not possible for him to read it in any 
position. He then went over to Mr. Joseph 
Bell, Mr. Choate's partner, and got him to write 
it out. Armed with both writings, Mr. Power 
went to court, and the case was called. Being 
asked to read Mr. Choate's opinion, he took 
up the (Bell) paper, read it glibly, and laid it 
on his desk. His Honor asked to see the 
document. Mr. Power obligingly handed Mr. 
Choate's letter up to him. The judge looked 
at it with wondering eyes, then at Mr. Power, 
and finally, drawing a long breath, he asked 
Mr. Power how it was possible for him to 
read it 

" Oh," said Mr. Power, " it happens to be 
one of my accomplishments ! " 



Recollections of an Old Musician 113 

I have evidence of Mn Power's kindly dis- 
position toward our Club in the form of a let- 
ter in his handwriting. I have had it framed, 
and I hold it in veneration. 

** Boston, March 31. 1852. 

" To the Members of the Mendelssohn Quintette Club : 

" Gentlemen : — Holding in regard your position as 
artists, we offer you a complimentary benefit. If you ac- 
cept this offer, please name an evening when it will be 
convenient to you. 

" With sentiments of regard, 

" Samuel A. Eliot, 
Thomas Power, 
Joseph Bell, 
G. Gushing, 
John Bigelow, 
Henry Burditt, 
Wm. B. Coffin, 
Daniel Kimball, Jr., 
RuFUS Choate, 
James Lodge, 
Franklin Darracott, 
Jonas Chickering." 

To a Bostonian these are names which carry 
weight and social distinction. Of these twelve 
gentlemen not one is now alive. 

The concert held in response to the above 
request, was one of the occasions which will 
ever remain a precious memory to the Club. 
Especially charming is the souvenir of that 

8 



114 Recollections of an Old Musician 

little girl who, advancing to the stage, placed 
in the hands of each of our number a bouquet, 
to which was attached a note of thanks and a 
substantial token of regard in the shape of a 
valuable gold ring and a large gold piece. 

I also hold as a treasure one of our old sub- 
scription lists, well filled with names. I read 
the paper from top to bottom ; I know every 
name, recall every person (about two hundred), 
and know they were always to be counted on. 
They were the friends of our youth, and now 
are mostly with the autumn leaves. 

** Many a time and oft, 
When the house is still and the day is done 
And the stars are out aloft, 
I sit by the failing fire alone 
And think of the years that are past and gone — 
Many a time and oft." ' 

1 Amelia B. Edwards. 



CHAPTER XIV 

THE next old friend who looms up large is 
Mr. Lowell Mason — a prominent figure 
in the musical history of the United States. I 
believe he was never absent from any of our 
chamber concerts except when out of town. 
I well remember how, one night in the old 
Masonic Temple, when we had finished play- 
ing Mendelssohn's Quartette in D, op. 44, Mr. 
Mason rose from his seat in the second row, 
came to the stage, laid the score of the quar- 
tette at my feet, said, "It was beautifully 
played ; please keep the score ; sorry I cannot 
stay longer," and walked out in the stately, 
self-possessed manner so perfectly in keeping 
with his character. 

At his home on Kingston Street I first met 
his sons, William and Henry. William, as we 
well know, is one of the foremost of American 
musicians, a splendid pianist and composer for 
the pianoforte. The youngest brother, Henry, 
also had musical talent. He became the head 
of the firm of Mason & Hamlin, the reed-organ 

"5 



ii6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

builders, and latterly grand and upright piano 
makers. There were two elder brothers, — 
Lowell and Daniel ; not being of my age, I 
knew them very little. They became well- 
known business men in New York City. 

Mr. Oliver Ditson is another well-known 
figure in musical history. He has so re- 
cently left his "niche," as one may properly 
call it, in his store, that it is easy to think he 
will return to it in a minute or so. Mr. Dit- 
son never wanted more than standing-room 
for his own working-place ; he always stood 
when writing. He had all the old-style habits, 
— ^was at his desk from 9 a.m. till 2 p.m. at all 
seasons of the year, and never went so far 
from Boston in the summer that he could not 
come to his store daily for work. 

Mr. Ditson was an actively benevolent man. 
It is well known that he paid the expenses of 
several music students, enabling them to study 
in Europe. His more private benefactions 
will never be known, but they are guessed at 
by his friends. His methodical habits and 
practical ways of economizing time were strong 
traits in his character ; they would often " crop 
out " in a funny manner, and a little story may 
serve to illustrate these peculiarities. 

Mr. Ditson had been out for a drive ; the 



OLIVER DITSON. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 117 

horses had bolted, the vehicle was wrecked, 
Mr. Ditson was thrown out, his left arm was 
dislocated, and his whole body badly bruised. 
He was picked up, and surgical assistance put 
him measurably to rights ; but he was forced 
to keep his room for perhaps four days, — a 
long time to be absent from duty. Finally he 
returned to his niche, with his arm in a sling, 
and joyfully resumed work. I was in Vermont 
at the time of the accident, but read all about 
it in the newspapers. Returning to the city, 
I hastened to learn Mr. Ditson's condition. 
There he was in his old niche, large as life, 
but a little damaged about the head, with 
his arm in a sling. Full of personal sympathy, 
I asked him to tell me all about the accident 
Without interrupting his writing for more 
than a second, he handed me a sheet of paper 
on which he had written a full history of the 
occurrence. It was entirely unnecessary to 
ask a single question. I offered my condo- 
lences, which he received with warm thanks, 
and took my leave. 

We must not overlook the fact that the 
great music house of Ditson & Co. remains 
with us as a truly magnificent monument to 
the name of Oliver Ditson. It is one to which 
every citizen of Boston can point with pride ; 



ii8 Recollections of an Old Musician 

and as a music-publishing house is one of the 
largest in the world Mr. Ditson, like the 
majority of America's great merchants, had his 
"day of small beginnings." His native wis- 
dom served him to very good purpose. It was 
but natural that he looked with honest pride 
on his son Charles controlling a great Ditson 
house in New York City, and his youngest 
son, Edward (when alive), doing the same 
thing in Philadelphia. 

I must not close this section of my recollec- 
tions without recalling the well-known prince 
of musical editors, — John Sebastian Dwight. 
His kindly face and form, so well known to 
Boston people, have so recently left us that 
we simply think that the good man has just 
gone away for a little while on a journey, and 
that we shall certainly see him again in his 
old haunts. We get so accustomed to see 
certain people in certain places, year in and 
year out, that we expect to see them there 
always. We were so sure of seeing Mr. 
Dwight in his invariable, carefully selected 
seat in the left-hand side of the first balcony 
of Music Hall, that now, missing him from 
that seat, one naturally asks, " Where is John 
S. to-night?" In this way beneficent nature 



Recollections of an Old Musician 119 

lets the recollections of our dearest friends 
slowly fade out into the illimitable confines of 
memory. 

When Mr. D wight began to publish his 
weekly paper, Dwights Journal of MustCy in 
1852, it was pioneer work — uphill ploughing 
and planting. John S. was ahead of his time 
in his requirements from public performers. 
He was to us young fellows, and indeed to all 
artists, at once a spur and a whip. He would 
never compromise with anything mean or com- 
mon in music, and was peculiarly intolerant 
of anything of the "monster jubilee" order. 
From his standpoint he was right He had 
the courage of hi^ convictions, and was willing 
to risk going without salt for his porridge 
rather than support in his paper any work 
which did not possess the element of refined 
merit 

At the time of the Boston Jubilees, which 
were big popular affairs, very wonderful in 
their way, with an army of guarantors for 
their financial success, the people, in Mr. 
Dwight's opinion, were largely guarantors for 
business reasons only. That was sufficient to 
draw out his strongest opposition ; he could 
not tolerate the Jubilees. 

Among the guarantors was the noble, large- 



I20 Recollections of an Old Musician 

hearted Mr. Oliver S. Ditson. He naturally 
wished for the influence of Mr. Dwight, who, 
at that period, was employed by him as editor 
of Dwight' s Journal of MusiCy published by 
Mr. Ditson. Mr. Dwight's answer was, that he 
had sold his journal, but not his personal or 
musical opinions. He did not believe in mon- 
ster jubilees: neither does any refined musi- 
cian. He gave the Jubilees, both in advance 
and afterward, the benefit of his (let us call it 
mildly) disapproval. In fact, it was reported 
that John S. Dwight had spent the week of 
the first Jubilee at Nahant, where the noise of 
the cannon fired off to accentuate the rhythm 
of God Save the Queen (or America, whichever 
you choose to call it), and the blows on the 
one hundred anvils {sic!^ in the Anvil Chorus 
from // Trovatore^ could not reach his ears and 
torture him. 

Mr. Dwight was a tender-hearted man, and 
a thoroughly cultured alumnus of Harvard. 
He had been one of the founders and workers 
in the " Brook Farm " experiment, and was 
certainly a good sample of that band of rare 
souls. He has made many of the best English 
translations of German songs. Examine, if 
you will, Schubert's Trockene Blumen, and any 
of the Heine songs set to music by Robert 



Recollections of an Old Musician 121 

Franz or Rubinstein. His poetic and musical 
nature fitted him for the work. The service 
he has done for music is well known by every 
musician. With pen and voice and every 
effective influence, he kept alive the Harvard 
Symphony Concerts for quite a while against 
the current of indifference which was setting 
in. 

As before said, Mr. Dwight in his musical 
proclivities was a very conservative man. One 
can honestly say he was more than that, — he 
was prejudiced. He was a determined fighter 
of the Richard Wagner cult, and, it is said, 
found no merit in that composer's works. His 
reverence for John Sebastian Bach, Beethoven, 
Mozart, and other old worthies does him 
honor ; but when a man can find no grandeur 
in Wagner, no beauty in the Miserere of // 
Trovatore^ I marvel. 

Every thinking musician will agree with me 
that J. S. Bach is the source, the fountain, the 
inspiration, the evangel, so to speak, of all 
which is great in music; that Beethoven is 
still " the man with the all-conquering ideas," 
the king; and that Mozart with his lovely 
melodies, his astounding contrapuntal skill, his 
great, passionate, dramatic instincts, may per- 
haps in those qualities never be excelled ; still, 



122 Recollections of an Old Musician 

thank God, the Giver of all good things, the 
end is not yet ! And when there comes a man 
like Wagner, who enlists a large army of earnest 
disciples, it is almost incomprehensible that, 
among the best musicians and writers, there 
can be found many who are exactly of the J. S. 
Dwight way of thinking. 



CHAPTER XV 

IN early days our Club held a few Mendelssohn 
birthday festivals. The first one, February 
3> 1 85 1, given in the Melodeon, was a great suc- 
cess. We invited as guests all our concert 
subscribers, decorated the hall tastefully, and 
covered the face of the balcony with white cot- 
ton cloth fringed with evergreen, on which, in 
letters nearly a yard long, was the legend : 
'* Born, Feb. 3, 1809. Died in 1847." 
The stage was of course the focus of our 
efforts. We had borrowed a plaster bust of 
Mendelssohn, placed it on a pedestal festooned 
with flowers, and put it at the front-centre of 
the stage. Our five music-stands were also 
decorated with flowers. Then we gathered to- 
gether and played round this representative, 
so to speak, patronymic saint He was our 
idol ; we offered him our adoration and homage. 
We were young, and certainly sincere. Satis- 
fied it was a proper thing to do, we did it, and 
had no mauvazse honte. 

Nothing of that nature could be done in this 

123 



124 Recollections of an Old Musician 

age. It would be called childish — ridiculous 
perhaps. People are matured, blasi\ they will 
run no risk of being considered inginue. We 
can no longer bum enthusiastic incense to any 
earthly idol. 

At this first festival an epilogue was com- 
posed and read by a Danish gentlemen, at that 
time living in Lowell. I give the concluding 
lines : 

'' Great Harmonist ! Oh let the spirit wake 
Once more to higher strains thy sacred harp ; 
Methinks I feel the sacred impulse — hark ! 
I hear seraphic sounds : what notes divine 
Breathe through the ravished air ! My rapt ear feels 
The harmony of heaven. Hail sacred choir ! 
Immortal spirits, hail ! O Mendelssohn ! 
Be this thy praise : to lead the polished mind 
To virtue's noblest heights ; to light the flame 
Of German freedom, rouse the generous thoughts, 
Refine the passions, and exalt the soul 
To love, to heaven, to harmony, and thee." 

Mr. John S. Dwight, the then accomplished 
editor and critic of the Commonwealth^ gives 
the following account of the affair : 

"THE MENDELSSOHN COMMEMORATION 

" The musical event of the season, at least 
so far as sentiment, artistic unity, and com- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 125 

pleteness, selectness, and novelty may be re- 
gardedy came off, in a way that more than 
realized expectation, at the Melodeon on Mon- 
day night It was a pure festival of art A 
beautiful, sincere German enthusiasm inspired 
it and adorned it. The Quintette Club, 
prompted by the sentiment of the occasion, 
had sent free tickets to the three hundred or 
more subscribers to their chamber concerts. 
But almost thrice that number, at an early 
hour, were seated in the hall, which had been 
tastefully and significantly decorated. In large 
letters of evergreen the name * Mendelssohn * 
was displayed upon the front of the gallery, 
over the entrance, and on either side * Born 
Feb. 3, 1809,' and * Died in 1847.* I^ ^h^ 
centre of the circle, focus of all eyes and of all 
thoughts, — that is, in the front of the stage, be- 
fore the organ, — that spot so often occupied 
by vain and showy solo players who seemed to 
place themselves before all music, — now rose 
the calm, pure, classic head of the true genius 
of the hour, a beautiful bust of Mendelssohn, 
crowned with laurel. We confess our thoughts 
were riveted to that intellectual, that unspeak- 
ably beautiful and expressive face, in whose 
fine and noble features one felt the union of a 
masculine dignity and firmness with almost 9, 



1 26 Recollections of an Old Musician 

woman's feeling. And then the large, clear, 
exquisitely moulded dome of thought, the 
perfect forehead! To tell the feelings that 
rushed through the mind and filled it all that 
evening, would require more than our power 
of expression. It should be a poem. 

" But the effect was first complete when the 
five young artists, with their instruments, had 
seated themselves around their patron saint, 
to interpret to us one of his quintettes. Then 
as the music, his own music, woke, the calm 
face elevated in the middle of the gfroup seemed 
almost to open its eyes and move its lips ; and 
who did not feel the music and the marble to 
be mutual interpreters, and that the great 
composer was thus doubly present to us ! The 
sentiment of the thing was so complete that 
the mind involuntarily hugged the spell ; and 
any voice of conversation, even when a strain 
was finished, seemed an interruption." 

We duly observed many Mendelssohn birth- 
days, but generally in private. 

It may be worth recording that we got up 
a Beethoven centenary birthday commemora- 
tion in Bumstead Hall. We had the best of 
assistance and played the entire septette, op. 
20, with the original instruments, the piano 
trio, op. 97, in B flat (Mr. Lang at the piano), 



FEUX BARTHOLDV MENDELSSOHN. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 127 

a group of songs, and a string quartette. We 
did our best It was a sincere offering, and 
was practically the last concert the Mendels- 
sohn Quintette Club gave in Boston on its 
own account 



CHAPTER XVI 

IN September, 1850, Jenny Lind gave her 
first concert in the old Castle Garden, at 
the foot of Broadway, New York. Tickets 
were sold at five dollars each. Large amounts 
were also received from premiums, and there 
was realized from that first concert thirty-five 
thousand dollars — official record. 

Does not the above read like exaggerated 
nonsense ? Nevertheless, it is true history. 

In 1850 there was no concert-room of de- 
cent size uptown in New York, and Mr. P. T. 
Barnum was allowed to alter the interior of 
Castle Garden in such a manner as to fit it for 
his purpose. It was made large enough to 
hold between six and seven thousand persons, 
the old circular form being retained. 

Probably a year in advance of Jenny Lind's 
advent in America, Mr. Barnum began to pre- 
pare the American people to properly receive 
"the musical saint," "the second Santa Cae- 
cilia," " the angel of the stage," " the most 
wonderful singer ever listened to by mortal 

128 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 29 

ears," etc, A regular system of short para- 
graphs and lengthy histories was thencefor- 
ward published and copied far and near. 

Lind's early history was told and re-told : 
the poverty ; the tribulations ; the childish sing- 
ing-days in the streets for coppers ; her singu- 
larly wonderful voice ; heard by a benevolent 
lady; the singer ** taken up" by the lady; 
placed in the hands of a music teacher ; sent 
to Garcia in Paris ; years of careful training ; 
preparations for the opera ; on the point of 
making her cUbut^ when, — presto ! she loses her 
voice ! Then for two long years her life was 
one of sadness, patience, resignation, consola- 
tion, till her voice returned, better than ever. 
The two years had been utilized in absorbing 
musical knowledge. Preparations were once 
more made for the public cUbut. The cUbut 
was a great success. Paris was carried by 
storm. Henceforward she was in demand in 
all the great capitals. Musical Europe lay at 
her feet. London went wild over her. It 
was discovered that she was splendid in ora- 
torio (there was a master-stroke). I cannot 
say how long her operatic career lasted, but I 
think it was about six years. 

Then she began to be serious-minded ; that 
period was doubtless during, and by reason 



1 30 Recollections of an Old Musician 

of, the fortuitous environment of the Exeter 
Hall devotees. Meantime, it was learned she 
was giving her wealth away to poor people, 
and so legitimately earning her right to be 
considered a saint. She could not mingle 
with theatre folk any more, and she renounced 
the opera at the period when her ability and 
her fame were at their zenith. 

There are certain threads in this tabulated 
and fabulated history which were facts. Jenny 
Lind did give up singing in opera, and London 
was " in sackcloth and ashes." Deputations, 
remonstrants from the most aristocratic ranks, 
even royalty itself, pleaded for her return to 
the opera, but in vain. 

It is believed, and doubtless it may be true, 
that there was a time when the powers of 
good and evil were wrestling for her, and it 
was thought that she was wavering in her new 
view of life's duties ; in common parlance, that 
she was " still on the fence." In that period 
of doubt the opera managers redoubled their 
efforts, pathetically picturing the financial dis- 
tress into which she had plunged them by 
withdrawing from the opera at a critical mo- 
ment ; and that so touched her soft heart that 
she was on the point of yielding. But when 
the Exeter Hall people heard of this weaken- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 131 

ing, they quadrupled their attentions, and 
finally won her over for good. 

All these details in the newspaper histories 
had in them a share both of truth and non- 
sense. Whether true or false, every point was 
a good theme for a sermon or a story, and they 
were all adroitly, artistically, diplomatically 
written up by skilful romancers in the pay of 
the long-sighted manager, Mr. Phineas T. Bar- 
num. The result was that the public was made 
to believe that saints and angels were nowhere 
in comparison with Jenny Lind, and that a 
hearing of her singing of / Know that my Re- 
deemer Liveth was quite evangelizing in its 
effect 

She did sing it grandly, and with a fervor 
which satisfied every musician. Handel him- 
self would have gone down on his knees to 
thank her for a true, devotional, musician-like 
performance of that fine song. 

Let us now consider for a moment what the 
American people were at the period of Lind's 
visit. They were at least not blasi ; they did 
not spend their summers in Europe, conse- 
quently everybody from the old world was 
looked upon as a trifle superior. The gener- 
ality of people were of a good, church-going 
kind, and were (we do not say it in any depre- 



132 Recollections of an Old Musician 

dating spirit) rather gullible, especially when 
the appeals were in the line of their faith ; 
they were therefore in that state which de- 
lights the managerial heart, that is, ready to 
swallow every statement put forth. 

After a year of Barnum's industrious prepa- 
ration, the American people were brought up 
to the point of giving very high prices and 
big premiums. A greater excitement about 
Jenny Lind and a stronger desire to see and 
hear her, were aroused than have been manu- 
factured in regard to any other mortal man or 
woman, from that time to this, in any land on 
which the sun shines. Old people could tell 
you of sacrifices made to get money to hear 
her which would lead you to think they were all 
demented. And this craze was not confined 
to the seaboard cities. The newspaper no- 
tices had been copied inland, and people would 
travel long distances to hear Jenny Lind if 
she was not to come near them. 

An Ohio friend related his experience to 
me. Jenny Lind was to sing in Wheeling, 
West Virginia, and he lived just sixty miles 
west, towards Columbus. He was then a boy 
of eighteen, and had been for three years ap- 
prenticed to a clock-maker. His father was a 
clergyman, with a large family and small sal- 



ANTON HEKKINQ. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 133 

ary, and though a warm-hearted music lover, 
was too poor to think of going to hear Jenny 
Lind. Father and son had read together a 
long notice of the approaching song-festival in 
Wheeling, and the father had remarked with 
a sigh of resignation, " I wish I could hear 
her." 

The son determined to try and go to Wheel- 
ing for that purpose. He knew it was use- 
less to ask his father for money or permission, 
but he would "get there all the same." So 
he started off one morning with a little kit 
of clock-tools in his pocket, but not daring to 
say anything to his family. He walked till 
noon in the direction of Wheeling, then went 
into a farmhouse, and asked if they did not 
want their clock repaired. They "just did" ; 
the old clock had not run for two years. The 
expert boy put it in running order, and the 
old farmer was so pleased that he gave him a 
Mexican silver dollar and a good dinner. 

In short, my friend spent three days on the 
road to Wheeling, mending clocks by the 
way and getting a little money for each. He 
reached Wheeling, paid three dollars for his 
concert ticket, heard Jenny Lind, and re- 
turned home in a two days' march. His father 
asked him where he had been, and he answered 



134 Recollections of an Old Musician 

that he had walked to Wheeling, mended 
clocks, earned money to hear Jenny Lind, 
and was happy. The father saw that he had 
a son who was made out of good stuff, 
embraced him, and said not one word of 
reproof. 

I had a personal experience which will stand 
as evidence of the high price of tickets. 
When Jenny Lind came to Boston the 
excitement was at high-water mark. The 
concerts were given in the old Tremont 
Temple, which would hold about twelve hun- 
dred persons. I was playing in the orchestra, 
and doubtless wrote very rapturous letters to 
a certain friend describing the greatness of 
her singing. 

One Saturday afternoon I received a tele- 
gram from my friend, who lived about forty 
miles from Boston, requesting me to purchase 
three seats for that evening's concert and meet 
him at the train. The party would be com- 
posed of father, mother, and daughter. There 
is no harm in saying now that I entertained a 
youthful transient passion for the latter. Were 
it not so there would be no story to tell. 

I quickly ascertained that in order to buy 
three good seats I must have forty-five dol- 
lars — and to a dead certainty I did not have 



Recollections of an Old Musician 135 

five dollars to my name. It was a most em- 
barrassing position for a young "pretender," 
I must not show my poverty, or my chances 
would be slim, I had few acquaintances save 
among my own impecunious kind. Fortu- 
nately I was inspired to apply to Mr. John 
Bigelow, the good father of the Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club. I went to his store, then on 
Washington Street, opposite the head of 
Water Street, and laid the telegram on his 
desk. It was from a mutual friend, and Mr. 
B. looked at me smilingly ; then he read it 
perhaps twice, and a great light broke on him. 
Taking in the situation he said, " Well Tommy, 
I suppose you have no money " ; to which I 
answered with a lightening heart, " No, sir." 
He then turned to his brother Alanson, and 
told him to give Mr. Ryan forty-five dollars. 
I bought the tickets and met the friends. 

Most people think that the selling at auction 
of the first choice of seats is a modern idea. 
It is not so by any means ; for most distinctly 
there was an auction sale for Jenny Lind's 
first concert in Tremont Temple, Boston. 
The first choice of seats was run up to 
$640 and was bid off by Ossian E. Dodge, 
a comic singer who used to travel round 
the country giving concerts " all sole alone," 



136 Recollections of an Old Musician 

accompanying himself on a guitar. Mn 
Dodge shrewdly bought his ticket for a 
business purpose. When the Lind concert 
was held, it is questionable which one of the 
two artists, Jenny Lind or Ossian E. Dodge, 
was the most stared at 

Mr. Dodge's object very soon declared 
itself ; for well-made lithographs of him could 
be seen in many of the shop windows, in which 
he was posed as singing, guitar in hand, with 
the legend in big type underneath, " Ossian 
E. Dodge, the man who. gave $ 640 for the 
first choice of seats to hear the great diva, 
Jenny Lind." And shortly another litho- 
graph appeared, which represented Jenny 
Lind in the act of being introduced by P. T. 
Barnum to Ossian E. Dodge, the great comic 
singer. I think that will pass for a sample of 
pretty skilful advertising. Those old worthies 
could give points to us moderns ; for we can 
scarcely show anjrthing so fine in its line. 

To return to the musical part of the Lind 
visit to America, Mr. Barnum had engaged 
several good artists who were in keeping with 
his star. Jules Benedict, the conductor, was 
a composer of operas, a middle-aged man, of 
very fatherly aspect, and just the dignified 
person required to hand Jenny Lind on and 



WULF FRIES. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 137 

oflf the stage. He was of fairly good musical 
reputation and an experienced man in all mu- 
sical routine, Signor Salvi was one of the 
best tenor singers living ; Signor Belletti was 
a very fine baritone ; and Otto Goldschmidt 
was a brilliant pianist, who was afterward mar- 
ried to Jenny Lind. There was always a grand 
orchestra. 

Jenny Lind's repertoire during her Ameri- 
can tour was the " Casta Diva," from Norma; 
" With Verdure Clad " and " On Mighty Pens," 
from the Creation; a cavatina from Beatrice 
de Tenday by Bellini ; the great song with two 
flutes from the Star of the North, by Meyer- 
beer ; and " Non mi Dfr," from Don Giovanni^ 
by Mozart. She also sang in the trio from 
// Barbier, and, with Belletti, the duo from 
LElisire d^Amare, and a great variety of 
the Swedish folk-songs. With the latter she 
nearly always ended her concerts. 

She used to introduce imitations of moun- 
tain echoes in the Swedish songs, and people 
said she did it ventriloquially, but I have al- 
ways maintained that it was done by very 
refined pianissimo singing. 

I have often been asked, "How much of a 
singer was Jenny Lind ? " I can say she de- 
served all that was claimed for her, unmusical, 



138 Recollections of an Old Musician 

nonsensical stories excepted. Her voice was 
of extensive range, reaching easily to D in 
alt, — 3, voice of veiled quality with something 
of the essence of a tear in it. She had almost 
unlimited execution, sang with great earnest- 
ness, and did everything in a highly finished, 
broad style. Such pieces as the ** Casta Diva " 
and / Know that my Redeemer Liveth she 
sang with so devotional a sentiment that she 
really seemed like some inspired priestess pro- 
claiming her faith. 

Doubtless many people in Boston will re- 
member that once when she had reached the 
end of the last-named song and made her bow 
to the audience, Daniel Webster, who was a 
listener, arose from his seat in the audience, 
and with great dignity returned her bow. 
^ Her intonation was perfect. Benedict had 
written for her a very long cadenza to fit the 
end of a cavatina from Beatrice de Tenda. 
The cadenza was sung without accompaniment ; 
it covered two pages of music paper, and was 
written in a style suited to an instrumental 
concerto. Towards the end there was a se- 
quence of ascending and descending arpeggios 
of diminished sevenths which flowed into a 
scale of trills from a low note to one of her 
highest ; then dwelling very long on that note 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 39 

and trilling on it, she gradually, tranquilly re- 
turned to the theme of the cavatina, when it 
was perceived that her wonderfully fine musical 
ear had unerringly guided her through the 
mazes of the long cadenza and brought her 
to the tonic note of the piece with surprising 
correctness of intonation. 

I think she was not overrated when called 
a ** great singer." 

The desire to hear Jenny Lind led almost 
to a riot at her final concert in Boston. After 
having squeezed out of the people all the 
money possible at high prices, the astute P. T. 
Barnum hired the upper part of the just fin- 
ished Fitchburg Depot. About one third of 
this upper floor (which was only one story up 
from the street) was utilized for the railroad 
company's offices, and they were on either side 
of the building, with a wide passage way in 
the middle which led to the hall. The offices 
were made simply by window sashes from floor 
to ceiling. In the body of the prepared con- 
cert room there were reserved seats for about 
fifteen hundred, and standing-room in the pas- 
sage way and round the ends of seats for about 
three hundred more. Rumor asserted that 
five hundred, or even one thousand, of such 
" standees " were sold. That may not be true, 



I40 Recollections of an Old Musician 

or it may not have been by connivance of Mr. 
BarnuHL 

The concert was given in the early summer 
season, warm weather prevailing. Thousands 
of persons had perched upon the roofs of ad- 
joining buildings and coal-sheds, and the streets 
round the depot were densely packed. The 
only means of reaching the concert room were 
the two corkscrew stairways at the front cor- 
ners of the building. The reserved seat ticket- 
holders were allowed to go up into the hall 
first. Then at a given signal the dollar stand- 
ees were admitted. There was one grand rush 
and the unreserved space was filled in the 
twinkling of an eye. People packed themselves 
very close, and yet there was continually a cry 
of ** Move up in front ! " with an awful pressure 
from behind by those who were trying to 
get in somehow, having paid for the expected 
privilege. 

The time came to begin the concert. The 
orchestra played the overture, of which prob- 
ably not a note was heard. Then came Signbr 
Belletti. His song was simply pantomime and 
" dumb show." Next came Jenny Lind. It 
was not her turn to sing, according to the pro- 
gramme, but Benedict brought her on to the 
stage, thinking her appearance would still the 



Recollections of an Old Musician 141 

storm. It had a partial effect. She sang ** On 
Mighty Pens," from the Creation. Towards the 
end of the piece, the people who were penned 
in the passageway between the offices, began 
to suffer from heat and lack of air. They 
smashed the glass partitions, and climbed in 
and opened the windows. The fracas and 
noise of breaking glass was frightful. A large 
number of ladies fainted ; they were brought 
into the orchestra anteroom, and very soon 
overflowed into Jenny Lind's room, so great 
was the confusion. 

An effort was made to go on with the pro- 
gramme, but, to the best of my recollection, 
there was not another note heard after Jenny 
Lind's song. People began to get out as best 
they could. It was a slow process. I know 
that we of the orchestra and the singers got 
out by corkscrew stairs at the stage end, the 
steps of which were all covered with mortar, 
laths, and pieces of joist. Providentially, the 
door at the foot of the stairs was unlocked, 
and we reached the street safely, with our 
instruments. 

According to report, a dense mob rushed to 
the Revere House, where it was said Bamum 
stopped, but P. T., being warned of the com- 
ing storm (also according to popular history), 



142 Recollections of an Old Musician 

took a hack out to Brighton and boarded a 
night train for New York. 

It was currently reported that from three hun- 
dred to five hundred people who held dollar 
admissions had not been able to even reach the 
corkscrew-staircase entrance. I do not know 
whether these ticket - holders ever recovered 
their money. 

Some little time after the above historic occur- 
rence, Jenny Lind was married to Otto Gold- 
schmidt, the pianist, in Boston ; and the pair 
went to Round Hill in Northampton, Mass., 
where they spent their honeymoon. 

Our Quintette Club had an engagement to per- 
form the Class Day music at Amherst College. 
By invitation of Jenny Lind and her husband 
we went to Northampton a day in advance and 
spent it with them. We certainly had a most 
gracious reception and enjoyed much music 
together. Jenny Lind sang all kinds of songs 
for us, with her husband at the piano. Gold- 
schmidt had just composed a concerto, and we 
tried it over with him as far as a quintette 
accompaniment would reach ; it was its first 
performance. The day and evening were en- 
joyable. The following morning we again met 
and had a little more music, till the hour came 
when we were forced to say our farewells. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 143 

We started in a hack for Amherst, eight 
miles distant, in a pouring rain, which quickly 
made the deepest kind of mud on the alluvial 
plain that lies between Amherst and North- 
ampton. Our music trunk was tied on the 
rear rack of the vehicle, and when we were 
about half-way on our journey, the entire frame 
broke down, and the trunk fell into the mud. 
The driver jumped off, rushed to a farmhouse, 
got a rope, bound up the contrivance, and we 
started again. We arrived a trifle late for our 
work, but we were all young, and such mis- 
haps sit lightly on young minds. Moreover 
we were too full of Jenny Lind and music to 
be depressed by any cares of business. 



CHAPTER XVII 

IT may have been two years after Jenny Lind 
came to America that we had a visit from 
Catherine Hays, or Kate Hays, as she was fa- 
miliarly called Her company had Mr. La- 
venu, a song writer, for conductor. I cannot 
now say who was the enterprising manager. 
The Barnum tactics were imitated, but it was 
not possible to get people again up to such 
fever heat 

Miss Hays was a good singer, and her com- 
pany was comprised of good artists, among 
whom was a fine tenor, a son of old John 
Braham, of "sea songs" fame. The party 
made no financial success. 

In 1853, Madame Sontag came to Boston 
with a brilliant company, Carl Eckert being 
the conductor. Madame Sontag, at the time 
of her visit, was a handsome middle-aged 
woman, reported to have been a startling 
beauty in her best, younger days, when it was 
said several duels, with fatal terminations, had 
been fought on her account 

144 



Recollections of an Old Musician 145 

This may have been but managerial manu- 
factured romance. Most managers seem to 
think that the adroit use of such stuff is abso- 
lutely needful to create interest. Perhaps they 
are right, from their standpoint. But it is 
discouraging to conscientious performers to 
know that they are considered of small ac- 
count if they are simply good artists whom 
cruel fate has tempted to remain good, honest 
citizens, and who have never prowled on soci- 
ety or " raised Cain " in any shape. 

When the Sontag party first arrived in 
America they had with them the fine boy vio- 
linist, Paul JuUien. I think he was about fifteen 
years of age at that time. He played mainly 
Alard and Leonard pieces, and played them 
very brilliantly. When the company had made 
a limited concert tour, attended with indifferent 
success, it was reorganized into an operatic 
enterprise and the boy violinist returned to 
Europe. I think his career was closed by death. 

I remember distinctly Sontag in her best 
r6le, " La Fille du Regiment" She was a most 
attractive picture in her vtvandiire costume, 
with the drum hanging from her neck by a 
** sling," and as she was a good drummer she 
won enormous success. She was certainly a 
fine actress and an excellent singer. 



zo 



146 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Carl Eckert, the conductor, is mainly re- 
membered and known by our younger gener- 
ation of singers as the composer of the Swiss 
Echo Sang^ written expressly for Madame 
Sontag. 

Madame Alboni was the next very fine 
singer who visited America, Oh, what a glo- 
rious contralto voice was hers ! It was of a 
silk-velvet quality (if I may be allowed to use 
such a figure of speech), with deeply sympa- 
thetic, expressive tones resembling very mark- 
edly the lovely reedy tones of a violoncello. 
Moreover, what technical wonders Alboni 
could accomplish with that voice ! Her color- 
ature in songs like Una Voce created the same 
effect as a Carnaval de Venise performance on 
the violin. 

Alboni's position in the European musical 
world was high. Her personal temperament 
was of the genial, bonhomie quality. She seemed 
always to be in a most happy humor, as if spe- 
cially made to create joy around her. It was of 
her that Berlioz, who doubtless was a cruel critic 
in his imperative art-demands, said that what 
she needed to make her one of the greatest 
singers that ever lived, was to have a husband 
who would beat her daily and make her ut- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 147 

terly wretched. She would then be able to 
infuse into special rdles^ with fine eflfect, some 
of the sorrow so salutarily beaten into her by 
the suppositious brute of a husband. 

But, .Hector, just stop a minute and think it 
over. How could you wish that such a glo- 
rious creature as Alboni might pass through 
an experience like that, merely to make a 
more artistic ** Parisian holiday ! " Perish the 
thought ! There are enough sad-eyed women 
in the world to satisfy the majority of men. 
Relent, Hector, relent ; let happy natures re- 
main happy, to diffuse the warmth and light 
of sunshine about them. Rather let us get 
along without sad music and turned-down 
lights. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

IN May, 1854, I was married. In the autumn 
we began housekeeping in Dix Place, near 
Eliot Street, Boston. We had certain neigh- 
bors who became our lifelong friends. I single 
out for brief mention one family, by reason of 
the great public interest then and now attend- 
ing the different members thereof. 

Our home was directly opposite the house 
in which lived Mr. and Mrs. William Lloyd 
Garrison with their four sons and one daugh- 
ter, and certainly it was one of the interesting 
happenings of my life that for two years we 
could enjoy friendly intercourse with the fa- 
mous abolitionist, — the "hounded man," the 
man who, perhaps, next to John Brown, had 
most truly acted up to the spirit of his convic- 
tions. He had even then a growing army of 
adorers, and certainly a very large one of 
haters. What he suffered at the hands of 
those haters is too well known to need any 
chronicle here. I only know that Mr. Garrison 
was for me a political idol ; but I choose to 

148 



WILUAM LLOyO GARRISON. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 149 

speak now simply of his charming personality 
in his social and domestic relations. 

In his family he was the beau-ideal of a lov- 
ing husband and father. It was peculiar and 
delightful to see him enter his house, hang up 
his coat and hat, and proceed as if he were a 
newly arrived lover. Whatever amount of 
friction he may have encountered in the outer 
world, it was at once forgotten. His demeanor 
to the members of his family revealed a most 
sweet and loving disposition. 

Mrs. Garrison was a good reflection of her 
husbands character. Indeed I used to think 
she was a kind of saint, because she was like 
a good mother in our family when our first 
daughter was born. I gave piano lessons to 
their little girl, Fanny, who in time became the 
wife of Mr. Henry Villard. The sons of Mr. 
Garrison have given a good account of them- 
selves. The third son, Wendell Phillips Gar- 
rison, has been for many years the editor of 
The Nation. 

Naturally, I had the opportunity to become 
acquainted with many of the rank and file of 
(in the common parlance of that day) ** those 

d d abolitionists " who acknowledged Mr. 

Garrison as master. All these people were 
really of a peculiar type, most thoroughly un- 



1 50 Recollections of an Old Musician 

selfish, idealists, — " cranks," if you please ; 
otherwise, people with a religion which set 
them to working for the good of others. 

It was also in the natural order of things 
that if I knew Mr. Garrison I should know 
Theodore Parker. I regard it as a piece 
of great good fortune to have been in the 
world at that period, and to have heard that 
fearless preacher. Those were the times be- 
fore the Civil War, when clergymen and 
others were often mobbed because they re- 
vealed the iniquity of human slavery. Parker 
and Wendell Phillips, when they preached or 
lectured, often required a body-guard to es- 
cort them from their homes to the Boston 
Music Hall and back. It seems almost an 
incredible story, but it is true history, well 
known in Boston. 

Closely allied, in one sense, with all those 
good souls, was the well beloved Rev. Thomas 
Starr King, pastor of the HoUis Street Church. 
What a bright man he was, and how anima- 
ting in his pulpit utterances ! 

He was passionately fond of music. I re- 
member that when Mr. J. Trenkle was organ- 
ist of the church, it was part of the musical 
programme that after the second hymn the 
organist should make an extensive improvisa- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 151 

tion or play some set piece of fine music. Mr. 
King believed it was as worthy a jubilate as 
any human speech could utter ; and that good 
music, artistically given, attuned his moral and 
mental faculties to a fine spiritual state, and 
invigorated him for the sermon yet to be 
delivered. It is clear that he was inspired in 
that belief, and many years ahead of a large 
share of the human family. 

We must not overlook one historical fact : 
that Rev, Thomas Starr King was unofficially 
sent out to California to keep that State in 
the Union. He succeeded in his undertak- 
ing, as has been recorded by better pens than 
mine. I simply wish to express my joy in 
having known him, and having been for a while 
under his fascinating influence. 

I recall with great pleasure the time when 
I had the honor of working in collaboration 
with Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, in an attempt 
to make a national hymn. A short time after 
President Lincoln's call for troops, Dr. Holmes 
did me the honor of coming to see me at 
my rooms in the Pavilion on Tremont Street. 
After mutual greetings, the Doctor said that 
his friend, Mr. William Schultze (our Quintette 
Club first violin),, under whose able tuition he 
was studying the violin, had told him that Mr. 



152 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Ryan was just the man to make, in conjunc- 
tion with him, a hymn acceptable to the peo- 
ple. 

It is to be remembered that the Civil War 
had just begun, and calls were made through 
the newspapers for a national song; it was 
said that we could no more dispense with it 
than we could with a flag, A group of patriots 
in New York City had offered a prize for 
such a hymn. Dr. Holmes thought we ought 
to try for the prize. I was eager to do my 
share. To collaborate with such a man was 
an honor and a personal delight 

Our modus operandi was first to select a 
strongly marked march-rhythm, then he was to 
write a few verses to fit it, and when that was 
satisfactorily done I was to write an original 
melody to his words. The plan was good 
and practical. For the rhythm I selected 
Washington's March. Then Dr. Holmes 
began work. 

He was a "chain-lightning" poet in his 
rapid invention of verses. Furnished with 
pencil and paper, he sat at the table and I 
sang with a good lusty voice the melody of 
the march ; singing it alternately slow or quick, 
soft or loud. After a few trials, he " caught 
on " to the rhythm and quickly found the cor- 



L^, , \',\ 



Recollections of an Old Musician 153 

responding poetical measure. From that mo- 
ment he went on making verses ; and the 
rapidity with which he changed words, ideas, 
and poetic figures, transposed lines, dropped 
certain trains of ideas and brought out stronger 
ones, was extraordinary to me. The verses 
grew under his fingers as rapidly as one might 
write an ordinary epistle, — the Doctor singing 
or humming the melody, or beating the rhythm 
on the table. 

We spent perhaps an hour in these researches 
or exercises till the Doctor had covered perhaps 
two pages of foolscap with his rough drafts. 
He then left me, taking them with him, and 
in a few days he brought me a pencilled copy 
(which I have kept) of the first verse and 
chorus that he had finally "whipped into 
shape," and which, he said, satisfied his judg- 
ment. Later on, he brought the entire hymn 
written with ink (which I now have), five 
verses in all, entitled Union and Liberty. 
Under that caption, the hymn was printed 
later, and afterward included in a collection 
of his poems. 

I give the first verse only : 

" Union and Liberty. 

" Flag of the heroes who left us their glory. 
Borne through their battle-fields' thunder and flame. 



154 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Blazoned in song and illumined in story, 
Wave o'er us all who inherit their fame ! 

Up with our banner bright, 

Sprinkled with starry night, 
Spread its fair emblems from mountain to shore ; 

While through the sounding sky 

Loud rings the nation's cry, — 
Union and Liberty, one evermore ! " 

We then tried to make another set of verses 
of a less strongly marked martial rhythm. I 
quite forget the melody they were to fit, but 
it was to be rather slow, like the Austrian 
Hymn. 

The poet made six verses and a chorus, 
entitled Freedom^ our Queen^ beginning with, 

" Land where the banners wave last in the sun." 

This set of verses is also published among 
his poems. 

We sent on our attempts to New York, as 
doubtless many other people did, but nothing 
ever came of it. No answer was returned, no 
examination made, no prize awarded, so far as 
we could learn. We had our pleasant labor for 
our pains. But I prize the memory of having 
collaborated with one of America's greatest 
poets. 



CHAPTER XIX 

DOUBTLESS it will be of interest to some 
of our old friends to have the various 
changes in the membership of the Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club indicated. The first to retire 
was Edward Lehman (flute). He was suc- 
ceeded by Gustav Krebs. The next was Francis 
Riha (violin), succeeded by Carl Meisel. This 
latter was an honored member for about twenty 
years. He was a fine violinist, a man of 
charming personal character, and is still alive, 
working in his profession in Southern Cali- 
fornia. 

About the tenth year, August Fries retired 
on account of ill health, and was suceeeded by 
William Schultze, the former concert-master of 
the Germania Musical Society. Schultze re- 
mained our first violin for about twenty years. 
During this period Mr. Wulf Fries, 'cellist, re- 
tired after an honorable service with the Club 
of twenty-three years. Mr. Fries is still an 
active worker, and lives in Roxbury. He was 
succeeded by Rudolph Hennig, who remained 

X55 



156 Recollections of an Old Musician 

for about eight years, and was replaced by 
Fritz Giese for five years. Then there were a 
few temporary changes of 'cellists till Anton 
Hekking came. It is to be seen that the Club 
has had, from first to last, the best of 'cellists 
to help make its reputation. 

When Meisel retired, he was succeeded for 
four years by the excellent violinist, Carl 
Hamm. Then came Gustav Dannreuther, 
well known in the musical world, who is now in 
New York City, at the head of a quartette club 
bearing his name. He was succeeded by the 
well-known and popular violinist, C. W. Allen, 
Thiele, and others. 

During the period of these changes, various 
good flautists, such as Beyer and Goering, were 
with us. Next came the brilliant flautist, Ed- 
ward Heindl, who played with us for twelve or 
thirteen years, and was replaced by Schade 
(latterly with the Boston Symphony), who was 
followed by Henneberg, and Rodenberg up to 
date. 

When we lost our first violin, Schultze, we 
lost one of the most genial men with whom I 
ever came in contact He was not only a fine 
violinist, but an excellent general musician, a 
devoted student of literature, quite a linguist, 
an inexhaustible story-teller, a generous-hearted 



Recollections of an Old Musician 157 

man, and always a gentleman in the fullest 
sense of the word. 

Schultze left us to accept a professorship in 
the Wesleyan University at Syracuse, N. Y., but 
after a few years of service he had a paralytic 
stroke, from which he only partly recovered, 
though he managed to work a few years longer. 
One morning in 1890, while playing the violin 
at a recital, his vital forces suddenly gave out 
and he almost fell to the floor. His friends 
came to his assistance, but the good spirit 
which had been such a source of pleasure to 
them had quitted its earthly tenement. He 
died just as a good man would wish to die, in 
harness and surrounded by his pupils. 

Mr. S. Jacobsohn replaced Schultze for two 
seasons. He was a splendid violinist, a grand 
player in quartette. He could play with a 
tender sentiment quite surpassing all players 
I have ever heard, without exception ; and when 
fully aroused he became a passionate player. 
Altogether he was a master artist. 

The Club, so far as good playing goes, 
reached "high-water mark " with Jacobsohn as 
first violin. The members at that time were : 
S. Jacobsohn, Gustav Dannreuther, Thomas 
Ryan, Edward Heindl, Rudolph Hennig. 
We had in addition the contrabassist, Alex- 



158 Recollections of an Old Musician 

ander Heindl, for two years ; also Mr. Manoly 
for the same length of time, both gentlemen 
being virtuosi on the contrabass. At the end 
of these four years we came to the conclusion 
that we were simply giving ourselves a musical 
gratification ; the public at large never appre- 
ciated the increase of tone, so for financial rea- 
sons we gave up the contrabass. 

Mr, Bernard Listemann, the brilliant violin- 
ist, replaced Jacobsohn for one season. Then 
came Edward Heimendahl for two seasons, an 
excellent man and violinist, with marked ability 
as a composer. He was succeeded by the re- 
markably fine violinist, Mr. Isidor Schnitzler, 
at present one of the first violins and soloist 
of the Boston Symphony, 

One episode in the Club's history may be of 
some little interest. We arrived one morning 
in a certain Michigan town, and were met at the 
railroad station by a friend of long standing. 
In a very serious tone of voice he informed me 
that another good friend of the Club, a 'cello 
amateur, was so far gone in consumption that 
his physician and family had given him up ; he 
would probably die during the day. The ex- 
pected visit of the Mendelssohn Quintette 
Club had apparently kept him alive ; he 
wanted to hear the Tema con Variazioni from 



RUDOLPH HENNIQ. 



■M 



Recollections of an Old Musician 159 

the Schubert D-minor Quartette before he 
gave up the ghost He had placed a sum of 
money in the teacher's hands to pay us. 
Would we gratify him ? 

The situation quite shocked me. I said, 
"Of course we will play, but don't talk of 
money." 

The sick friend was at the same hotel in 
which we were to be quartered. The plan was 
for us to play in a room at some little distance 
from his, but with both doors open. He 
wanted the music to reach his ears as a last 
sweet echo of his departing musical pleasures. 

We prepared to play very soon after our 
arrival at the hotel. To me, who knew the 
young man well, it was a very solemn moment. 
To play under such circumstances required 
some self-possession. 

On a lower floor in the hotel lay a brother 
of the sick man who was also in a rapid de- 
cline, and very near death. The mother was 
in attendance at his bedside. Scarcely had 
we reached the middle of the piece, when a 
messenger from the mother came to request 
us to stop, for the brother down-stairs was so 
aflfected that she feared immediate death. 
We ceased playing. This latter brother died 
during the ensuing night ; but the one who 



i6o Recollections of an Old Musician 

wanted the music lived on, and some favorable 
change occurred which gave him a fresh lease 
of life, — good for some years after the time he 
thought he was to hear his parting Swan Song. 

This unique masterwork of Franz Schubert 
has always been the one oftenest asked for, 
and I must mention one other solemn occa- 
sion when we had to play it A young lady 
died in Dorchester who had been one of our 
earnest friends and music lovers. She left a 
sum of money with her brother in order that 
he might engage the Quintette Club to play cer- 
tain selections at her funeral. She had planned 
the entire function. We played in a room ad- 
joining the parlor where the religious service 
was held. We began with the Swan Song, 
playing it with muted strings. That was fol- 
lowed by prayer. Then we played one of the 
Seven Last Words of Christy — music composed 
for string quartette. Next the burial service 
was read, followed by addresses from friends ; 
and we ended the exercises by playing another 
of the Seven Last Words. 

This was certainly an occasion when firm- 
ness and composure were needed. Imagine 
having to play music of such technical diffi- 
culty at such a time, in such a situation, where 
the burden of the song, " Death and the 



Recollections of an Old Musician i6i 

Maiden," had its counterpart in the adjoin- 
ing chamber, for there was death, and there 
also was the maiden. 

I knew that the girl during the brief span 
of her life had a very elevated and spiritual 
love for music ; it spoke to her as nothing 
else did. And her brother told me she was 
steadfast in the belief that she would be pres- 
ent in spirit during these last earthly rites, 
and would again hear the music she loved so 
well. 

Knowing these facts, I was greatly affected 
while playing. They kept surging through 
my thoughts and brought me to the very 
verge of sobbing. When we first began, I 
must say, in familiar language, it was "just 
awful." I shall never forget it, and hope never 
to pass through a similar experience. 



CHAPTER XX 

IN the year 1859, the Quintette Club made 
its first concert trip to Philadelphia, Balti- 
more, and Washington, accompanied by Mrs. 
J. H. Long, a fine soprano, of Boston. The 
trip was successful, and we made an impres- 
sion which encouraged us to repeat the ven- 
ture many times. This little concert tournie 
was practically our first playing outside of 
New England. It seemed to us a very grand 
thing to give publicly advertised concerts in 
those large cities, and to attract good audi- 
ences. All was new and interesting. 

One experience is worth relating. I had a 
letter of introduction to Mr. X., a great man 
of the period, the publisher and editor of the 
principal Washington newspaper. Calling to 
see him on the day of the first of our two con- 
certs in the old Willard Hall, I was courteously 
received, and after I had explained the motive 
of my call, I expressed the hope that he would 
send a reporter to the concert that evening so 
as to have a detailed report in the next morn- 

162 



Recollections of an Old Musician 163 

ing's paper, and thus help us to a full house on 
the second night. The good old gentleman 
replied that his daughter was the only person 
whom he could trust to write musical notices 
for his paper. She was not in very good 
health, but if she could not attend the con- 
cert he would have something written up for 
the morning's issue without fail. 

The concert attracted a fair attendance, and 
gave evident pleasure. In next morning's 
paper we found the " something without fail " 
in the shape of a glowing article ; but, — mir- 
dbtle dtctu/ — ^we were all singers instead of 
players ! — a kind of Hutchinson-family arrange- 
ment ; that being the sort ofr music then most 
enjoyed by the public. 

The notice in question contained ecstatic 
praise of the soprano, and also of the sympa- 
thetic alto, declaring that so good a voice had 
never before been heard in Washington. The 
tenor ** had the true timbre of a tenor voice," 
— there was no suspicion there of a light 
baritone. The bass was " a really organ-like 
support for the beautiful musical superstruc- 
ture." The concert was quite an ideal one, 
etc. 

These are not the exact words, perhaps, but 
they are the substance of the notice, which I 



1 64 Recollections of an Old Musician 

now have, filed away in my treasury of funny 
happenings. 

It did us good service, nevertheless, and we 
had a full house the second night. Probably 
if we had been described as a club of instru- 
mental players, composed of " four violins and 
a bass "(which is the musically intelligent way 
in which we are often even now depicted), our 
fate would have been sealed in Washing- 
ton. Classic music is still caviare to many 
people, and thirty-six years ago it was a 
thing of dull and dubious character to the 
uninitiated. 

As years rolled on, people from the western 
states who had ^heard our club play in or 
around Boston, often asked, " Why don't you 
come out West ? " 

Accordingly I made practical inquiries in 
regard to a concert trip, and received encour- 
aging replies. Still I thought it would not be 
safe to try it unless we had some " star " with 
us, to add to our attractions. We finally 
reached the venturing-point, and engaged as 
stars Miss Adelaide Phillips, the well-known 
contralto, and Camille Urso, the distinguished 
lady violinist. We were managed by Harry 
McGlennen, the well-known advertising man- 
ager, so long at the Boston Theatre, and 



CAMILLE URSO. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 165 

• 

made a short trip of three or four weeks, meet- 
ing with good success. 

Madame Urso deserves something more than 
a mere passing mention. She is easily the 
most remarkable violin player who ever came 
to America and made her home among us. I 
well remember her as she appeared at her 
ddbut in Jonas Chickering's piano rooms. 
She was then a little girl of eleven, with the 
same sad and interesting face that she has 
now. Yet, when not playing, she is full of 
fun, and her conversation is richly humorous. 

Her playing as a child was very artistic. 
She made her cUbut in the " Fantaisie " on // 
Pirate, by Artot, accompanied by her father on 
the piano, and she won an immediate success. 

Her career is too well known to demand 
any detailed account from me, but I wish to 
emphasize the fact that she has made constant 
progress in her art. She has played all the 
modern masterworks, the great concertos, in 
the principal concerts in New York, Boston, 
and, indeed, in all the larger cities from Maine 
to California, and she is still earning laurels. 

She has played so often with our club, and 
I know her fine points so well, that it is not 
easy for me to speak of her playing except in 
unqualified eulogy. 



1 66 Recollections of an Old Musician 

To return to my narrative, after that trial-trip 
I decided that it was a safe thing to undertake 
a travelling concert season, and that we did 
not need " stars " to attract audiences. Indi- 
vidual star singers and players had been heard 
everywhere in the West ; ensemble playing was 
the novelty. We prepared for the long sea- 
son's travel, and engaged one of our charm- 
ing home singers to accompany us, Miss Addie 
S. Ryan (not a daughter of mine, as many 
imagine). She had a rich and very sympathetic 
voice, was a good all-round singer, and very 
"taking" in ballads. She became a great 
favorite wherever heard. 

The financial result of the long season of 
travel was good, and for many years we made 
similar trips, and (which will surprise many 
persons) without the help of any advance 
agent. All details and arrangements for our 
appearance in towns and cities were made by 
correspondence. To be sure, it kept me busy, 
but the West of that period was not the West 
of to-day. To a certain degree we had the 
entire western country to ourselves. There 
were no other musical people travelling. 
There were very many minstrel companies 
(which did not injure us), and a few dramatic 
troupes. We were in demand everywhere; 



Recollections of an Old Musician 167 

the main trouble was to get dates. Money 
was plentiful, — every one was " flush " after 
the war. 

Before long we began to have imitators, — 
either in '63 or '64. The first musical organiza- 
tion to follow in our wake was the " Redpath 
Parlor Opera Company," organized in Boston. 
It was a quartette of good home-singers. Clara 
Nickels was the soprano. Flora Barry the alto, 
Charles Clark the tenor, Edward Payson the 
bass and John A. Howard the pianist. They 
began first as a concert company, and after- 
ward wisely turned into a parlor opera com- 
pany, doing acts of either Martha or Don 
Pasguale. They were very successful and in a 
little while they in their turn had imitators. 

Little by little companies enlarged their 
personnel till the full-fledged affair appeared 
and captured the country with Pinafore. 
I gladly turn over to future historians this 
line of the divine art of music, knowing that 
they will have a " nice little job " to keep track 
of the numberless big and little opera com- 
panies who are now actively competing with 
each other in the struggle for existence. 

In 1868 the Club was in Chicago. The time 
had come when I could no longer dispense 
with the services of an advance agent, — com- 



1 68 Recollections of an Old Musician 

petition was becoming active. I secured a 
good one in Mr. D. H. Elliot, who was a 
Georgian by birth, and had been a Confederate 
officer of marked ability. I found him to be a 
man of wonderful managerial resources, so I 
let him have free rein. 

He opened with a brilliant coup. A big 
political convention was being held in the 
Crosby Opera House. Elliot had five thous- 
and little " dodgers " made of gossamer paper, 
four by six inches in size, on which was printed : 
" The Mendelssohn Quintette Club of Boston, 
the most wonderful body of instrumentalists in 
America, will soon arrive in Chicago, and will 
play for one week in the Crosby Opera House. 
Tell your friends the joyful news." At a given 
moment during the convention, these five thou- 
sand little bits of paper (like Chinese printed 
prayers) came fluttering down from the cupola 
of the opera house to all parts of the assembly. 
Everybody grabbed for them, and a point was 
gained. The daily papers exploited the joke, 
and excited enough interest to give us six 
good houses for one week. We paid two 
hundred dollars per night for the opera house. 
That fact now reads like a fairy tale. Those 
were great times after the war ; everybody had 
money and spent it right royally. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 169 

I 

I must relate another exploit of our brave 
ex-Confederate soldier. We had made a Jittle 
summer concert trip to Niagara Falls, and gave 
one or two concerts. It is to be remembered 
that immediately after crossing the bridge over 
the rapids to Goat Island, there used to be a 
small paper mill on the right-hand side, the 
walls of which were built directly on the edge 
of the wild, rushing waters. Elliot often did 
the unexpected thing. This time he went into 
the office of the paper mill, and asked if they 
had any objection to his putting up a poster 
for a concert on the walls of the mill over the 
rapids. They laughed derisively and said they 
had no objection, — " Go ahead." 

We were using as advertising material at 
that time, a long, showy streamer — each letter 
a full sheet — ^which bore in black letters shaded 
by red on a white ground, " Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club of Boston." It was a stunning 
thing ; it could be read five miles distant 

Elliot borrowed a skiff, put all his pasting 
and other materials into it, hired some good, 
reliable men to assist, and got the skiff across 
the bridge and into the water. He then 
boarded it, with one man to help, and his 
other assistants on shore paid out a long 
rope, to which the boat was attached, until it 



1 70 Recollections of an Old Musician 

reached the wall, on which he pasted up every 
letter and returned to terra firma in safety. 
It was a crazy, dangerous thing to do, but it 
paid. Everybody went to see the poster, 
which could be read easily at the old Grand 
Trunk Railway bridge, two miles distant, and 
all along the Canada shore. The desired 
point was gained ; it excited all kinds of re- 
marks, and I believe remained upon the wall 
for two years. The paper and paste were 
good, and no one cared or dared to risk get- 
ting it down. 

Another story characteristic of Elliot is 
worth telling. At Geneva, N. Y., a minstrel 
troupe had just preceded us. Their pictorial 
bills were still up, depicting the minstrels in 
full artistic action on the stage. The local 
bill-poster, infatuated, doubtless, with "them 
lovely pictures," and hating to cover them up, 
as they were so aesthetically ornamental to the 
town, conceived the idea of pasting our big 
streamers directly above them, and our three- 
sheet bills on each side, thus making an exact 
frame for their picture. To all appearance, the 
whole thing was one show, — the Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club were the minstrels, or the min- 
strels were the Mendelssohn Quintette Club, 
just as the casual passer-by might infen 



Recollections of an Old Musician 17^ 

Elliot was so pleased with the complete- 
ness of the unwonted combination, that he 
borrowed from the poster-man his working 
clothes, dressed up in them, got the paste- 
bucket, brush, and ladder, took up a position 
at the side of the picture, pointed to it with 
evident admiration, and had a photographer 
take a shot at the whole, and thus made it 
immortal. 

Mr. Elliot was a good, level-headed Ameri- 
can. After travelling for us two years he de- 
termined to settle down and begin work for a 
permanent home. He has been for some 
years in Florida, and is one of Mr. Plant s 
right-hand men, which; as maybe known, means 
very much. Morever, the State of Florida 
sent him to the Paris, Vienna, and Columbian 
Expositions, to show up its resources. 

Our old agent still often travels long distances 
to see and hear us ; then we have a good, square 
chat and, like old soldiers, we go over the skir- 
mish-lines and battle-fields once more. 



CHAPTER XXI 

IN 1872, as our Club, individually and collec- 
tively, were tired of travelling and of being 
away so much from our families, we determined 
to try to establish ourselves again in Boston. 
With ample preparation and all the thought 
we were capable of concentrating on the work, 
we three men, Mr. Schultze, Mr. Heindl, and 
myself, began the venture of establishing the 
" National College of Music." 

We had a faculty of genuine artists, com- 
prising : Vincenzo Corillo from the Royal Mu- 
sic School in Naples, principal vocal teacher; 
Mr. Charles Hayden, assistant ; and Mr. B. J. 
Lang, head of the piano department The 
assistant piano teachers were all brilliant 
young men whom Lang had taught and de- 
veloped, namely : Mr. Geo. W. Sumner, well 
known and beloved as organist for seventeen 
years at the Arlington Street Church, Mr. 
Hiram Tucker, Mr. W. F. Apthorp, Mr. 
Dixie, and Mr. J. Q. Adams. All these men 
would naturally teach according to the Lang 

17a 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 73 

method, and that certainly was a commenda- 
ble system. As teachers of string instru- 
ments, we had of course the Quintette Club. 

We held a matinee of classic music every 
Saturday, and the pupils were expected to be 
present Those who were capable of playing 
ensemble music had therefore frequent oppor- 
tunity of doing it with the Quintette Club. 
The same privilege was given to singers. 

Our plans were all right, and we started off 
with goodly numbers, — not far from two 
hundred pupils. In October, just one month 
later, the great Boston fire occurred ; and it 
made everybody poor. The majority of the 
pupils were from the city or neighborhood, 
and over one half of them were forced to 
notify us that they could not continue their 
attendance another term. The fire really 
killed our school. We worried along to the 
end of the year, met our losses as best we 
could, and returned to our old system of 
travelling, — in short, " took to the road " again. 

A fearful amount of time is spent on rail- 
road trains while jogging from town to town 
in our country of great distances. At first it 
is novel enough, with its ever-changing kalei- 
doscope of experiences, to make the time go 
quickly ; but when the second or third season 



1 74 Recollections of an Old Musician 

of such travel comes round, what a ** demnition 
grind" it is! The very disagreeable people 
one sometimes meets, the waiting at junctions, 
the unwholesome food, the running of trains 
at very unseasonable hours, as far as the 
traveller's comfort is concerned, — all these 
make a sum total of petty miseries which is 
very considerable. In such circumstances, if 
some one comes along who at once shortens 
the hours and sweetens the life, — even to the 
limited extent of making one forget the worst 
part of it, — that person is a very welcome com- 
panion. 

Just such a desirable person entered our car 
one dull, rainy day on the New York Central 
Railroad, — a, very attractive lady lecturer and a 
marvellously fine story-teller. She employed 
so much verve and action in her narrations 
that one could almost see the scenes described. 
Knowing her well, I was delighted to meet 
her again and to learn that we were to be 
travelling companions for some hours. 

Every story-teller knows there are two kinds 
of listeners, — the simply attentive listeners, 
and the encouraging, inspiring ones. On the 
day in question, I must have been of the latter 
kind, for my friend unreeled story after story, 
in most of which she figured as principal ; and 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 75 

I am sure she invented nothing, though pos- 
sibly she may have added a little coloring 
matter. The stories are too good not to put 
one or two in print for future Bunsbys. For 
the sake of convenience I will call the lady 
" Miss A." 

She had been engaged to lecture in a rather 
small town in Northern Illinois, and it was 
her first visit to that section of country. On 
account of some misunderstanding as to the 
hour of arrival, there was no committee-man, 
with welcoming face, to meet her. To a lady 
lecturer travelling alone, words of welcome 
and regretful farewells coupled with the " hope 
that we shall have you again next year," con- 
stitute the greater part of her reward,— omit- 
ting for the moment, if you please, the tender 
little check received after the work is done. 

Finding no one to meet her, and know- 
ing the name of the hotel where she was to 
stop. Miss A. was the first one to enter 
its waiting 'bus, and, taking one of the seats 
farthest from the door, she awaited further 
developments. In a few minutes two ladies 
entered, who eyed her wonderingly and ex- 
changed glances and remarks in a way that 
was not sweetly comforting — soon interrupted, 
however, by the entrance of several men with 



1 76 Recollections of an Old Musician 

musical instruments. The newcomers also 
looked questioningly at Miss A., but business 
was evidently on hand, for they began to take 
out their instruments from bags and cases. Miss 
A. also noticed that a man spread a cover of 
fringed white cloth over each horse, bearing 
some legend which she could not make out, 
and ornamented with designs of an artistic 
nature at the corners, groups of banjos, man- 
dolins, fiddles, triangles, flutes, castanets, etc 
Then the men opened the windows in the 'bus, 
and " the band began to play." 

Just imagine the young lady lecturer shrink- 
ing into her corner, the stunning noise of ten 
or twelve brass instruments, reinforced by a 
big bass drum on the roof of the stage, every 
blow on which seemed to strike her on the top 
of her head, and also to act on the honest, staid 
horses like a bunch of exploding firecrackers 
tied to their tails. Away they flew and al- 
most brought about the crack of doom to the 
'bus and its occupants. The bandmen, how- 
ever, taught by previous experiences, perceived 
that a fifty measures' rest would be a good 
thing just then, and stopped playing until the 
horses quieted down. After a while they be- 
gan again, and as the man on top thumped 
mezzo forte this time the horses seemed only 



Recollections of an Old Musician i n 

to be rejuvenated by the sweet sounds and 
behaved decorously. 

The cortlge went pretty much all over town, 
and finally halted at the hotel. The bandmen 
and the two ladies got out of the 'bus. Miss A., 
summoning up all the life that was left in her, 
and separating herself from the crowd, got out 
with all becoming dignity. The landlady, who 
was evidently waiting for her, came forward, 
received her very cordially, and conducted her 
to a cosy, charming room, where she fluttered 
and flattered with an impressement that only 
one woman can show to another. 

Finally she left her, saying that tea would 
be ready soon, and she would meet her at the 
dining-room door. The poor martyr, thankful 
for the momentary quiet, gave vent to her 
pent-up anguish in a woman's usual, blessed 
way, — namely, tears, — ^bemoaning the fate 
which had sent her on the road to drift about 
among such scenes and people. 

The soothing influence of quiet and rest 
soon restored her composure, and she de- 
scended to the dining-room. Duly met by the 
landlady, she was conducted to a separate ta- 
ble, where covers for two were laid, and it 
really was a " nice spread." The good hostess, 
who had, unasked, fastened herself on Miss A. 



za 



1 78 Recollections of an Old Musician 

as a companion, chatted and buzzed and amused 
her greatly. 

The repast over, the landlady, evidently with 
some unusual pleasure still in anticipation, 
conducted Miss A. to her room. Unable to 
contain herself any longer, she burst out with, — 

" Now, I want to see your gowns." 

" My gowns ! what gowns ?" 

" Why, your stage gowns." 

" My stage gowns ! I have no other gowns 
than the one I have on." 

"But" — in a very pleading tone — ** where 
are your play-gowns for the stage ? " 

" Play-gowns ! Oh, I see ! there is some 
mistake . I don't play." 

" Don't you belong to the show ? " 

" No, no ; I 'm not up in the art-world like 
that I am only a humble lecturer, and am to 
speak in the church to-night." 

This confession fairly caused the landlady 
to turn pale and gasp for breath. The full 
extent of the fraud she had practised on herself 
was so great that it completely robbed her of 
power to speak ; but it brought an expression 
of disgust and contempt into her countenance 
which was more scathing than a diction- 
ary's whole store of epithets. Turning her 
back on Miss A. she vanished from view, and 



Recollections of an Old Musician 1 79 

did not show herself again while that lady 
stayed at the hotel. 

The scene of another story was laid in a re- 
mote section of Wisconsin. A (very) ** Young 
Men's Society " were to hold a series of lec- 
tures for the first time in their town, and Miss 
A. was to open the course. When she stepped 
out of the warm and comfortable car, she real- 
ized very quickly that it was a cold, wintry 
day, little adapted to the reception that had 
been planned for her. The entire society, 
some twenty in number, had delegated them- 
selves to meet the lecturer, and they were 
drawn up in line on the sidewalk like a mili- 
tary company. The leader came forward, led 
Miss A. to the line, and ceremoniously intro- 
duced her to every Brown, Smith, Jones, etc., 
of them all. This duty done, he wiped his 
brow and looked around as if for some one to 
tell him what to do next. Miss A. suggested 
that, as it was so very cold, she would like to 
go to her hotel. The company escorted her 
to a one-horse sleigh, waiting near, the leader 
handed her in, — the young men watching every 
motion, — ^got in himself, and then with that 
true though timid gallantry characteristic of 
the rural^ young American, offered her the 
reins. She thanked him, but declined on the 



i8o Recollections of an Old Musician 

ground that he probably knew the way and 
the horse better than she did. 

When evening came, the whole youthful 
regiment was on hand to escort Miss A. to the 
little theatre where the lecture was to be given. 
The house was packed. She took off her 
wraps and followed her leader to the stage, 
which was decorated with a small table, a 
pitcher of water, and a tumbler. There was 
also a long, old-fashioned settee, with legs 
under the middle and at either end. Tak- 
ing a seat at the farther end she noticed that 
it tilted down with her. Presently a large, 
heavily built clergyman came on to the stage, 
sat down on the other end of the settee, and 
up she went, her feet no longer touching the 
floor. Everybody laughed. The tilting was 
great fun to the good-natured, honest, typical 
country audience. 

Having nothing else to do. Miss A. scanned 
the assemblage. Foremost, leaning his folded 
arms on the edge of the stage, was a young 
man in a red flannel shirt (probably one of the 
fire company), who watched all her movements 
with the most careful attention, never once 
taking his eyes from her. Finally the reverend 
gentleman arose rather suddenly, letting Miss 
A.'sendof the settee down with a thud, which 



Recollections of an Old Musician i8i 

brought out another good-natured laugh from 
all parts of the house. The reverend gentleman 
began the proceedings with a long-winded 
introductory speech, under which infliction the 
audience grew more and more restless, until the 
young man in the red shirt, unable to hold in 
any longer, blurted out, " Dry up, old man, and 
give the young gal a chance ! " Whereupon 
the prologue came to an end and the lecture was 
delivered without further incident. 

Miss A. told me a third story, which reveals 
her good and generous, but impulsive charac- 
ter. She was engaged to lecture in a college 
town in Ohio, and was met at the station by one 
of the professors, at whose house she was to be 
entertained. On the way thither the gentleman 
expressed his sentiments in regard to women's 
rights in so offensive a way that he roused in 
her the strongest kind of an antipathy. He 
was so opinionated and arrogant that, to use 
her own words, " He set all my woman's blood 
boiling when airing his opinions." I inferred 
that the unlucky man had been " in for it," 
and had unquestionably received the punish- 
ment that she was quite competent to give. 

Arriving at the house, Miss A. inquired for 
her hostess, and the gentleman replied that 
she was busy preparing supper. She had a 



1 82 Recollections of an Old Musician 

large number of boarders — students — and was 
attending to her duties ** as a good housewife 
should " (strongly emphasized) ; by which 
speech the man of course floundered deeper 
into Miss A's disesteem. 

In due time a messenger came to Miss A.'s 
room to say that tea was ready and they were 
"waiting prayers." Miss A. replied that she 
would wait till the lady of the house could see 
her. That must have raised a breeze, for the 
good housewife soon came up, in breathless 
haste. The picture which Miss A. had men- 
tally conjured up of the lady fitted her perfectly. 
She was a thin, anxious, nervous, overworked 
woman. After a minute's conversation the 
two ladies descended to prayers and tea. 
While at the tea-table Miss A. tried her best to 
draw out the lady hidden in the drudge, to 
help her to be properly esteemed by all present, 
and to have them understand that the wife was 
filling an honorable position at the head of the 
table, though she had previously prepared the 
food with her own hands. 

In the course of the conversation Miss A. 
modestly expressed the hope that her hostess 
would be pleased with her lecture. 

" Oh, dear me," was the answer, " I cannot 
go ! I have too much to do. I have no help. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 183 

and I must wash and put away the tea things, 
etc." 

Miss A. replied that she would help her do 
all that, — and in fact there would be no lecture 
that evening if she did not go with her. Miss 
A. carried her point, sent for a hack, and took 
the lady to and from the lecture, totally ignor- 
ing Mr. Pomposity. Her lecture being on the 
subject of righting women's wrongs, she 
thought it was as well to begin righting them, 
or fighting for them, then and there. 

I remember telling Miss A. of a certain ex- 
perience of my own which is possibly worth 
repeating. 

Calling one day on the City Attorney of a 
small town in Northern Illinois, and waiting in 
his office for a little transaction to be effected 
between the attorney and a caller, I noticed 
on the mantelpiece two well-known statuettes, 
one representing a "Cavalier," the other a 
" Roundhead," both illustrative of English his- 
tory. Examining the Cavalier I saw a small 
inscription on its base which puzzled me. It 
was ** General Grant." The make-up of the 
figure was that of a cavalier soldier, with a 
large felt hat and feather, an arquebus on the 
left shoulder, a sword at his side. The Round- 
head had cropped hair, surmounted by a 



1 84 Recollections of an Old Musician 

leather, pot-like head-covering, and his right 
hand grasped a long Cromwellian sword, 
point straight down. On the base of this 
figure was written, " General Butler." 

Knowing the figures and their significance, 
I turned to the attorney and asked for the 
" joke." " Well," said he, with a hearty laugh, 
*• I Ve had my money's worth of fun from 
those little things, which I bought from a 
travelling art dealer, little dreaming of the 
endless questions and explanations they would 
require. One day, before I affixed those gener- 
als' names, a good honest rustic asked, * What 
be them, anyway ? ' I said, * I suppose you have 
heard of the statutes of Illinois?' He said, 
"Yes." I said, "Well, them's 'em," and that 
satisfied him. Very soon I perceived that I 
must have some other plan to permanently 
switch off remark, so I attached the names. 
One caller very closely examined the figures, 
and after some cogitation he remarked, " I 
did n't think Grant looked like that, but Butler 
is just splendid ; any one can see it is like 
him." 



CHAPTER XXII 

IT may be well to say that I am not undertak- 
ing to write the musical history of the 
United States, nor even of Boston ; but I be- 
lieve the Jubilees are as worthy of being put 
on record as would be a first performance in 
America of the Parsifal by Richard Wagner ; 
though in comparison with the latter, the 
Jubilee music is like a boy compared with a 
man. But without the first, the other could 
not be. Parsifal is the man fully grown (some 
think he is the nepltis ultra) y while the Jubilees 
represent the boy, — the tearing, rowdy young 
fellow, in his first stage of musical growth. 

There are musical people of the present age 
who ask, " What were those Jubilees you talk 
about ? " Some of them may add, " I find in 
my good mother's library a stack of chorus 
music marked * The Jubilee Collection * ; and 
among those pieces are works written by our 
native composers, together with great ora- 
torios and some trash. What does it all 
mean ? When did the Jubilees occur ? " 

185 



1 86 Recollections of an Old Musician 

I will try to answer those questions, premis- 
ing that there could not have been Jubilees 
without Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore; and we 
must know his history to know that of the 
Jubilees. 

It is well understood that all talented men 
are of Irish parentage, for that naturally in- 
cludes the present writer (!) as well as Mr. Gil- 
more, — or rather " P. S.," as all his friends called 
him. As a boy he lived in Salem, Mass., and 
quite early in life he was a member of the 
Salem Band, and afterward its leader. His 
next step forward made him, in 1852, a member 
of the somewhat famous " Ordway Minstrels," 
in Boston, then playing in the little hall of the 
historical " Province House," where, in colo- 
nial times, the governors and nabobs held 
high court,— or "high jinks," as we may 
properly call it. 

If we here allow a spirit of discursive moral- 
izing to take possession of us, we shall have a 
fine chance to make mental pictures of the old 
colonial days, to see in fancy the red-coated 
king's officers, the bedizened governor and his 
courtiers, the young bucks and belles of the 
period, the guards of honor in and about the 
diminutive but cozy little place of royal rev- 
elry, and then to compare it all with an enter- 



PATRICK & SILMORE. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 187 

tainment prepared for our modern republican 
pleasure-loving people, — so entirely different, 
even in their pleasures. In old times, " pleas- 
ures " meant chiefly eating, drinking, dancing, 
hunting, and love-making. The latter, in its 
primitive essentials, remains the same, and 
doubtless will till the end of time, but in other 
things our modern system of pleasures is vastly 
different from that of the colonial days. It is 
true we eat and drink, and we dance a little, 
but we have evolved a large class of people to 
entertain us in various ways, and to do it with- 
out any effort on our part. One species of 
this entertainment is, or was, negro minstrelsy ; 
perhaps we might call it " low jinks." We see 
a band of these fun-providing people holding 
their revelry in that same Province House 
hall, and what a cruel contrast is thus made by 
the irony of fate ! Where English nobles once 
held court, we now see the Irish boy, Patrick 
Gilmore, snapping his fingers in derision at 
nobles or their king, — and yet only in the spirit 
of professional fun, for he with his good breth- 
ren are thus earning their daily bread. 

From out the frame of that picture we may 
now withdraw the aspiring boy, P. S. Gilmore, 
for he shortly after graduated into one of the 
military bands in Boston. Step by step he 



1 88 Recollections of an Old Musician 

climbed the ladder, and finally we had " Gil- 
more's Band." " P. S." was an active, restless 
** hustler," and his band was soon on the top 
of the wave. When the war broke out, Gil- 
more showed at once the stuff he was made 
of. He was an ardent " off-for-the-war " man. 
Meetings to help along enlistments for the 
army and navy were being held everywhere. 
Gilmore and his full band constantly played 
at these meetings, and I dare say played out 
of pure patriotism. With his band in gay 
uniforms and ribbons flying from their hats, as 
in old days, he even paraded the streets of 
Boston, drumming up recruits for the Massa- 
chusetts 24th Regiment 

The next step was that he and his whole 
band volunteered as soldiers, regularly enlisted 
as the band of the 24th, and with that regiment 
went to the war. It is on record that he and 
his men were always on hand to cheer up " the 
boys " with good music when they most needed 
it, and he even got some of the bright young 
spirits of that crack regiment to form a min- 
strel company. In fact, he showed his energy 
and good fellowship in every situation. 

After about a year's service in North Caro- 
lina, his band, like most of the regimental 
bands, was mustered out. General Banks, 



Recollections of an Old Musician 189 

commanding the Department of New Or- 
leans, urged Mr. Gilmore to go to that city 
and become the chief director of music in his 
command. He accepted, and was a very pop- 
ular man in that capacity. He organized one 
very large school-children's music festival, and 
it doubtless gave him a good preliminary ex- 
perience in managing large numbers of per- 
formers. 

When the "cruel war was over" Gilmore 
went back to Boston, and once more had ** to 
hustle for a living." He reorganized his 
band, brought it up to its best estate, and for 
several seasons gave Sunday night sacred and 
popular concerts in Music Hall or Boston 
Theatre. He was a venturesome manager, 
paying high for drawing cards, and usually 
had a big orchestra and chorus in addition to 
his band. He did all the drilling and direct- 
ing of the musical forces himself, attended to 
the financial details, and managed to get valu- 
able assistance from the newspapers ; in fact, 
he manifested an energy which was astound- 
ing. His large " pull " on the military element 
in Boston was a great help to him. In the 
midst of this activity in public entertainments, 
he formed a partnership (Gilmore & Wright) 
for the manufacture of band instruments. 



\ 



iQo Recollections of an Old Musician 

I mention all these points to show that Mr. 
Gilmore was a very bright, energetic man. 
And whether he lost or made money, his 
cheery temper always remained unruffled and 
unclouded. His popularity was great ; and all 
his earlier ventures and activity were simply 
an apprenticeship for really large doings a 
little later. 

I cannot say positively whether the embryo 
idea of a Jubilee emanated from him, or 
whether it took form from the chance sug- 
gestion of some one else ; but I believe it to 
have been a Gilmore idea because of the 
peculiar make-up of the man. He was an 
earnest, loyal American. All the Southern 
States had come back into the fold, and we 
were once more a glorious Union. Peace and 
plenty reigned. Gilmore was just the sort of 
man into whose head would come buzzing 
the idea that the nation should have a big, 
rollicking family jubilee to celebrate the 
happy state of the country. Boston was the 
place above all places in which to hold it It 
should be a musical and social reunion, — a 
magnificent jubilate. Such it was in reality. 

Mr. Gilmore had the ability to inspire a 
very large number of people with a belief in 
him and his idea, who were willing to become 



Recollections of an Old Musician 191 

financial guarantors. Accordingly a wooden 
building of good acoustic properties was 
promptly erected on the Back Bay lands, near 
or on the site of the present Art Museum, — 3, 
building capable of holding fifty thousand per- 
sons, including a big chorus of ten thousand 
and a great orchestra of one thousand. The 
audience was to be seated in chairs on a 
level, oblong floor and in the deep balcony 
which ran round the sides and the end facing 
the stage. A great organ was built for the 
occasion ; also a bass drum, the head of which 
might have been ten or twenty feet in diame- 
ter. This drum was a special point of attrac- 
tion ; it seemed as big as a Fourth of July 
balloon. 

The musical part of the Jubilee — all things 
considered, — ^was noble and dignified. The 
great chorus, the great orchestra, the great 
organ, the great drum, and the great singer, 
Parepa-Rosa, with her wonderful, never-to-be- 
forgotten rendering of the Inflammatus, may 
seem, at this distance of time and develop- 
ment of musical taste, as something only 
" great " to laugh at. Yet, when a whole 
serious-minded community like that of Boston 
"took stock" in it, and the spirit of the idea 
was carried out happily, is it not perhaps 



192 Recollections of an Old Musician 

rash to mock at it ? Have not the results 
been far-reaching, doing their work in this 
world of evolution just as the chromo pre- 
pares the way for high art? Who can say 
that a large share of Boston's musical reputa- 
tion was not earned by the Jubilees ? 

Returning to details, it will surprise many 
to know that the orchestra numbered quite a 
thousand — ^with the patriotic Ole Bull at the 
head of the violins, and Carl Rosa playing at 
the same desk. Gilmore had engaged all the 
principal sopranos of Boston, constituting a 
"bouquet of artistic singers." These were 
placed on a special raised balcony between 
the orchestra and the chorus, and they sang 
in unison the obligato parts as they occurred 
in the choral pieces. 

Great care had been exercised all through 
the preceding winter in preparing the choris- 
ters, who were scattered all over New Eng- 
land, — every village and town contributing a 
quota. They were supplied with the Jubilee 
music, and the leaders and directors of all these 
people had the tempi (Italian plural for 
" time" ) given them. During many months it 
was a busy time for Carl Zerrahn, as general 
music director, and his aids. They had to 
travel from town to town to drill the choristers, 



PAREPA-ROS*. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 193 

or to see that the preparations were going on 
auspiciously. 

When all the singers finally came together 
the result was pretty good. But a chorus of 
ten thousand persons would naturally occupy a 
wide space, and they would inevitably drag the 
tempo. Mr. Zerrahn often had to show good 
generalship by rushing up the aisle which 
separated the two divisions of the big choral 
army in order to get near enough to beat the 
laggards into time. 

Mr. Gilmore was a modest and a wise man, 
and conducted but little of the music himself ; 
but that little was great, — for did he not direct 
the "Anvil Chorus " ? Will Boston, or at least its 
Jubilee participators, ever forget the sensation 
it had when the one hundred firemen— -each 
in his belt, helmet, and red flannel shirt, carry- 
ing a long-handled blacksmith's hammer at 
" right shoulder shift " like a musket — ^marched 
ipto the hall and on to the stage in two files of 
fifty, and then separated far enough to form a 
red frame for two sides of the orchestra, which 
meanwhile was playing the introduction to the 
"Anvil Chorus " ? Reaching their special, real 
anvils, the firemen faced the audience, lifted 
their hammers to the proper position, and at 
the right musical moment of time began to 

»3 



194 Recollections of an Old Musician 

pound the anvils, — right, left, right, left, — 
while the great orchestra and chorus played 
and sang the melody. 

If ever "the welkin rang" it did then 1 
In addition to the sounds from a hundred 
anvils there was the great organ, military band, 
drum corps, all the bells in the city achime, and 
a cannon accompaniment This last came from 
two batteries of well served guns stationed at a 
short distance from the building, and a gun 
was fired off by electricity on the first beat of 
each measure. A small table was placed on 
the stage, close to the director, with a set of 
electric buttons, each having a wire leading 
to a gun. Mr. John MuUaly was the artist 
who pressed the button ; the gun did the rest. 
These guns were similarly used for all national 
airs. 

At the termination of the " Anvil Chorus " 
there was enormous applause. The whole 
mass of people rose to their feet, jumped up 
and down, and nearly dislocated their arms by 
waving handkerchiefs, fans, hats, parasols, even 
babies. I am sure that I was never in any 
great assembly where such wild, almost frantic 
cheering and applause was heard. Fifty 
thousand people in a wooden building can 
make some noise. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 195 

The dear, wonderful old maestro^ Verdi, did 
certainly furnish a great opportunity for P. S. 
Gilmore. It is equally certain that Verdi never 
dreamed of the possibilities contained in the 
" slam-bang " popular melody. When the piece 
was ended, the gentlemen firemen would march 
out ; and, the applause continuing, they would 
march back again and go through the whole 
exciting performance once more. 

During the festival, some of the composers 
like J. K. Paine and Dudley Buck directed 
their own compositions. Mr. Eben Tourjee 
directed Nearer^ my Gody to Thee^ and other 
hymn tunes. 

This first festival was held in June, 1869, 
and lasted a week. Performances were given 
afternoons only, — nothing in the evenings, ex- 
cept a large, very successful ball given on 
Friday evening. People poured in from all 
parts of the country ; distance was no hindrance, 
— they came from the far West and even from 
California. 

On June 17th, the President of the United 
States, General Ulysses S. Grant, with Ad- 
miral Farragut, Admiral Thatcher, Commodore 
Winslow, a numerous staff, and the Governor 
of the State, all in full uniform, were present at 
the performance. 



196 Recollections of an Old Musician 

The financial part of the Jubilee was satis- 
factory. There was a very large income, 
^290,000, and a correspondingly large outlay, 
^283,000. All professional people, except the 
few who declined to receive pay, were paid. 
The care of the finance had been taken off 
Mr. Gilmore's shoulders. After every bill was 
paid, a respectable balance remained. This 
balance, together with the proceeds of a benefit 
concert, ^32,000, making together v?39iOOO, 
was, very properly and very handsomely, 
handed to Mr. Gilmore. 

For musical completeness I give the pro- 
gramme of the first concert, June 15, 1869, 
which will serve as a type of all. 

1. Grand Choral, ** A Strong Castle is our Lord," 

2. Tannhauser Overture, Select Orchestra of 600, 

IVagner. 
Directed by Mr. Julius Eichberg. 

3. Gloria from the Twelfth Mass, . . Mozart 

4. Ave Maria, Bach-Gminod. 

Sung by Madame Parepa-Rosa. 

The violin obligato played by two hundred violinists. 

5. National Air, " The Star Spangled Banner," Key. 

Sung and played by the entire force with 
Bells and Cannon. 

Intermission fifteen minutes. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 197 

6. American Hymn, Keller. 

7. Overture, " William Tell." . . Rossini. 

8. Inflammatus from the *' Stabat Mater," Rossini. 

Madame Parepa-Rosa. 

9. Coronation March, from " Le Prophete," looo 
performers, Meyerbeer. 

10. Anvil Chorus, from " II Trovatore," . Verdi. 

All the forces ; loo anvils, performed on by loo mem- 
bers of the Boston Fire Department ; Bells and 
Cannons. 

11. My Country, Tis of Thee, wbrds by Rev. 
S. F. Smith, D.D. All the forces ; the audience 
requested to join in singing the last stanza. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

THE second Jubilee was held in 1872, and, 
like all repetitions of a similar nature, it 
was found to be impossible to get up a popular 
excitement equal to that which attended the 
first one. It was therefore not a financial suc- 
cess. The new building designed for it, and 
everything else, was on a larger scale, and not 
so easily handled. There were some notably 
fine features, but the whole was less of a strictly 
home affair. 

Gilmore's plans again showed his genius. 
They were bold, well conceived, but very costly. 
He went to Europe, and "talked the crowned 
heads " (that was the popular phrase) " into 
letting their crack " military bands come over to 
play in the J ubilee. He obtained the band of the 
Grenadier Guards from London, about forty- 
five strong, under Dan Godfrey ; a German in- 
fantry band, about thirty-five men, under Saro ; 
and that of the Garde R^publicaine, from Paris, 
of about fifty-five men. It was said that this lat- 
ter was reinforced by fine artists from the opera, 

Z98 



Recollections of an Old Musician 199 

and was not therefore a fair sample of French 
bands. There was also a little insignificant 
band, the Royal Constabulary, from Ireland. 

These bands had an English day and Ger- 
man, French, and Irish days. The English band 
was good, the German, too brassy, the French, 
magnificent The latter opened with Meyer- 
beer's "Torch-Light Dance" {Fackeltanze) 
and won instant success. They had a double 
quartette of saxophones, four fagotti, a double 
fagott, and some very large tubas : and the 
total result was so round, full, and soft, that 
all musicians were captivated with the deep 
diapason volume of sound. Their perform- 
ance of the William Tell overture was superb. 

It is to be remembered that, in 1872, the 
political antagonism between the French and 
Germans was great. The Franco-Prussian 
War had left rankling hatred between the two 
peoples. The sight of a German to a French- 
man was like shaking a red rag in the face of a 
bull; consequently, on the day the French 
band of La Garde R^publicaine marched down 
the broad aisle in full uniform, surrounded (in 
their imagination) by their enemies, the Ger- 
man musicians, it was certainly an anxious 
moment for the Frenchmen. It seemed to 
me — perhaps it was the effect of the sympa- 



200 Recollections of an Old Musician 

thetic current created by the situation — that 
they were pale with anxiety. It was to be 
their battle-field ; they were to be judged by 
prejudiced listeners, and they were on their 
mettle. 

The performance of the band was musically 
so perfect that all prejudice was annihilated. 
Metaphorically the Germans embraced the 
Frenchmen ; we were all of one brotherhood 
— ^politics and race differences had vanished — 
the music had disarmed all evil spirits. We 
were simply musicians, ready to award praise 
to merit When the band ended the overture, 
the players all about them were as wild in 
their applause as the general public. And I 
am sure I saw some of the Frenchmen wipe 
away tears of joy at their well-won victory. 

Mr. Gilmore had captured several rare lions 
and lionesses for his musical menagerie, chief 
among whom was the royal lion, Johann 
Strauss, — the famous waltz-composer from 
Vienna, — and Madame Peschka-Leutner, a col- 
orature singer of extraordinary ability. This 
lady captivated her audiences with her clear, 
telling, high, and powerful soprano voice, her 
almost matchless execution, style, and other 
rare vocal gifts. She was a genuine success. 

Then there was Madame Rudersdorf, a 



JOHANN STRAUSS. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 201 

splendid singer, of broad, classic, oratorio style. 
She was of great value to the city of Boston, 
for she settled there and became a teacher of 
teachers. 

Strauss, violin in hand, conducted the 
orchestra daily, in one of his most popular 
waltzes, and also in some little knick-knacks, 
such as the Pizzicato Polka^ which became at 
once a great favorite. His manner of con- 
ducting was very animating. He led off with 
the violin bow to give the tempo^ but when the 
right swing was obtained and the melody was 
singing out from the orchestra, he joined in 
with his fiddle as if he mtist take part in the 
intoxication of the waltz. While playing or 
conducting he commonly kept his body in 
motion, rising and falling on his toes in a really 
graceful manner. 

It was natural that Strauss, the composer of 
the Blue Danube, should be an object of great 
interest to a large part of mankind and woman- 
kind. The man who had furnished the human 
family so many blissful moments, was bound 
to be an idol ; and he had worship enough 
during the limited time allotted him to face his 
new-made Boston admirers. We must not 
forget that on all public parades he had his 
valet with him, — in gorgeous livery, a cockade 



202 Recollections of an Old Musician 

on his hat, a brown and golden belt round his 
waist, a heavy cloth coat on, and over his arm 
(with the mercury at 90) a heavy cloak to place 
round his master, the king of waltz-makers, in 
case of need. This warmly dressed, though 
picturesque valet, always stood just at the 
front edge of the stage with his eyes fastened 
on his master. Some cynic has said, " No 
man is a hero to his valet." I take no more 
stock in that saying, for I think Strauss was a 
hero to his. We must judge somewhat by 
appearances in this world, as they often 
furnish our only ground for judgment. 

This second Jubilee had a " coda," or tail, in 
the shape of a financial deficit, but the noble 
army of martyr guarantors " faced the music " 
like men. 

Mr. Gilmore reached the apogee of his 
greatness at the period of these festivals. 
To conceive and carry out such plans showed 
much forethought and executive ability. First, 
to get those large military bands over from 
Europe — foreseeing that it would set the 
European world to talking of Gilmore and his 
band — ^was a pretty big thing; and then to 
follow it up (after he moved to New York 
City) by actually taking his New York band 
over to Great Britain, France, Germany, and 



Recollections of an Old Musician 203 

(I think) Italy, was certainly not only bearding 
the lion in his den, or carrying coals to New- 
castle, but it was undertaking a financial 
venture of the most uncertain kind — and yet 
Mr. Gilmore, with clear vision of success in his 
eyes, boldly carried out the project, and re- 
turned from Europe with all his colors flying. 

I think it can be seen that the brave, loyal 
bandmaster, Patrick Sarsfield Gilmore, filled 
a good page in the musical and social history of 
our country. We hopefully believe he now 
rests in peace. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

RUBINSTEIN and Wieniawski were, in 
my humble opinion, the two greatest 
artists who have up to date visited the United 
States. They came together, under some for- 
gotten manager, and travelled a part of two 
seasons in 1873-74. Before and since the 
coming of Wieniawski we have had many fine 
violinists, beginning with Sivori, and followed 
by Ole Bull, Miska Hauser, Vieuxtemps, 
Sauret, Madame Camille Urso, Dangremont, 
Paul JuUien, — then Wieniawski, Wilhelmj, 
and quite recently Sarasate. Speaking from 
an entirely unbiassed standpoint, I say that 
Wieniawski overtopped them all. I think 
there was not one in the above list who could 
do certain things he did. In his Carnaval de 
Venise^ he exhibited a mastery over every form 
of violin technics which quite reached the 
marvellous. His chromatic scale, played 
staccato from the lowest to the highest note, 
and down again to the lowest, in one bow, — 
either an up or down bow, — was a feat, a tour 

204 



Recollections of an Old Musician 205 

deforce^ shown us by no other virtuoso. His 
double trills and double harmonics were perfect. 
Nor was it in mere technical playing that he was 
great, for he played with much sentiment and 
feeling, and in quartette playing he showed his 
best quality. He was the master-player and 
king of all I have heard ; Joachim alone ex- 
cepted when playing Beethoven or Bach. 

I have reserved my little talk about Rubin- 
stein, not because he was the lesser of the two 
remarkable men, — for we all know he was the 
greater, — ^but Rubinstein, the pianist and com- 
poser, is not a subject to be disposed of in a 
few qualifying remarks. Doubtless there are 
partisans of various pianists, prepared to dis- 
pute my estimate of him and give battle at 
once. But let us not forget that a large pro- 
portion of persons is always satisfied that the 
latest good thing is the best in history. Also, 
it is fair to say there is quite as large a propor- 
tion, perhaps a larger one, which says that 
the old way or person is the best. 

Luckily for the pianistic and musical world 
in general, the fact of Rubinstein's great playing 
is still attested by large numbers, and, we may 
add, by exclusively musical people. A consider- 
able share of the partisanship of the present 
day is recruited from the ranks of society peo- 



2o6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

pie, who take up people and fads and carry 
them till the next new, good thing comes ; but 
the whole critical musical world has sung the 
praises of Rubinstein, from his advent as a 
player till the day of his death, with scarcely a 
dissenting voice. It is therefore fair to believe 
that it was not without reason that Europe 
had weighed him in the pianistic scales and 
agreed that he was the great master. 

Let us add to that fact that he can be num- 
bered among the creator-gods of music. Do 
not such beings possess an insight into the 
spirit and wishes even of other composers, not 
shared by those who have not the special gift 
of composition ? Are not men like Rubinstein 
made to glow with a composer's rapture ? We 
all remember how he used to thunder on the 
piano at times, and hit many wrong notes, and 
we knew the cause. His passion was roused 
— the brain working — the heart throbbing — his 
mental vision following the guiding spirit and 
the soul of the music. He was being carried 
on its wings into ethereal regions. At such 
moments, when cool mastery of technics was 
absent, his fingers would play him tricks. 
Even then it was a delight to be a listener, a 
joy to be a musician and be brought under the 
spell of his magic power. 



ANTON RUBINSTEIN. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 207 

On one memorable occasion Rubinstein and 
Wieniawski did me the honor to spend an 
evening at my house in Boston. A right royal 
musical evening it was, shared by about fifty 
artist and amateur guests. We made much 
music,— beginning with Rubinstein's String 
Quintette in F, op. 57. Then we had the 
Rasoumoffski Quartette in F, op. 57, by Bee- 
thoven, with Wieniawski playing first violin. 
Then the Schumann Piano Quintette, with 
Rubinstein at the piano. Oh, it was a joy to 
take part with such a man and in such a work ! 
and how Rubinstein did spur us on by his 
passionate way of playing some of the great 
parts ! his power was fierce and tremendous. 
I think we all revelled in the sea of sound we 
made about us. 

After the Quintette, Rubinstein played a 
lot of choice solo pieces, ending the evening 
with the Chopin Polonaise in A flat, op. 53, 
in which comes the wonderful passage for the 
left hand in octaves. He began the phrase 
very soft, then the "little-by-little crescendo'' 
was most admirably done, finally reaching a 
fortissimo power which was quite colossal. 
It stirred us all up, and set even the chan- 
delier to jingling in sympathy, and possibly in 
admiration. 



2o8 Recollections of an Old Musician 

It may not be amiss to give a little incident 
showing Rubinstein's frank, lovable person- 
ality. On the evening of the above musicale, 
we had planned to make an intermission after 
the second, composition, to rest the artists and 
allow an opportunity for people to meet 
Rubinstein. No sooner had we ended the 
Quartette than Rubinstein came to me and 
asked if he could not go down-stairs and smoke 
a cigarette. I said, ** Yes, certainly " ; and we 
went down to the dining-room, where we dis- 
covered that the table was spread for the sup- 
per. Rubinstein at once said, " I must not 
smoke here ; can't we go into the kitchen ? " 
" Of course," said I ; so we plunged into the 
kitchen. This important part of the premises 
we found in possession of three colored men 
of the well-known J. B. Smith, caterer, and 
the atmosphere was frightfully hot The next 
question from Rubinstein was, couldn't he 
take off his coat, it was so warm ? Off came 
the coat, followed by the remark that it 
was just delightful to enjoy the freedom of 
a home, and how often had he gone into 
his own kitchen to have a smoke ! While 
he was in the midst of the sacred indulgence, 
Mrs. Ryan came to the door searching for 
Rubinstein, in order to introduce him to some 



Recollections of an Old Musician 209 

of the friends. The instant she appeared he 
got into his coat with the celerity of a theatri- 
cal expert, took one more puff at the cigarette, 
and was ready for duty. 

I often recall the trifling episode, — Rubin- 
stein and I seated near the door farthest from 
the cooking-range, he in shirt-sleeves with his 
coat spread on his knees, and the three colored 
men busy at the range but often turning 
round to stare at the stranger with his odd 
ways, language, and gestures. 

Rubinstein's character was simple and unaf- 
fected, interesting and individual, throughout 



CHAPTER XXV 

FROM the time of closing up the National 
College of Music in 1873, the Mendels- 
sohn Quintette Club travelled season after 
season, giving concerts in all parts of the 
country. 

When we began going West in 1862 or 1863, 
towns like Indianapolis, St. Paul, Grand Rap- 
ids, and Cleveland, were small ; and we have 
seen them grow into large, populous cities, and 
noticed the changes in the manners and cus- 
toms of the people. There is very little dif- 
ference now in the people of any section ; they 
are so homogeneous that we cannot tell whether 
we are playing in Bangor or Omaha or on the 
Pacific Coast We have frequently visited Can- 
ada, from Newfoundland to British Columbia. 

In the early spring of 188 1, we made our 
first visit to California, and how new and ro- 
mantic it did seem ! We were not so blas4 as 
we became afterwards. 

I knew that in San Francisco I was to meet 
many old friends, and I realized most of my 

810 



Recollections of an Old Musician 211 

pleasant anticipations. We left Omaha be- 
hind us in snowdrifts, just as we had left all 
nature in the Eastern and Middle States in 
the desolation of winter storms. These same 
storms followed us till we reached Reno, in 
Nevada. Waking up the next morning in 
Sacramento, California — ^what a change ! The 
jump from winter to summer had been made 
in one day-and-night's journey. All nature 
had put on the lovely dress of June. The 
odor of flowers, the distinctive featur6"of Cali- 
fornia, was in the atmosphere we breathed, and 
the delight froni it was throbbing within us, 
when, as if to emphasize our joy, one of the 
expected friends came to the train to meet 
myself and my family, bringing a great mass 
of roses freshly gathered from his garden. 
How wonderful and delightful it did seem ! 

We all get accustomed to this kind of thing 
in time, and it no longer stirs our enthusiasm. 
But the first experience stays by one as a 
charming souvenir. 

Our concert experience in California was 
pleasant and profitable. We visited nearly 
every place up and down the coast, including 
Oregon and Washington Territory. In San 
Francisco we gave an extended set of con- 
certs, and when leaving for Australia we had 



2 1 2 Recollections of an Old Musician 

a farewell which made us all happy. The 
Quintette Club at that time was composed 
of the following artists : First violin, Isidor 
Schnitzler ; second violin, August Thiele ; 
flute and viola, William Schade ; clarinet and 
viola, Thomas Ryan ; violoncello, Fritz Giese ; 
Miss Miller, soprano. 

While we were in " Frisco," we had been 
advised that a concert trip to Australia would 
be a profitable one, and we determined to un- 
dertake it It was a bold venture. The cost 
of fares one way for agent and company was 
fourteen hundred dollars. There was a chance 
that we might have to " come home on our 
trunks " (in theatrical parlance) ; yet we were 
quite sure we could not "foot it." It is a 
pity that slang alone can paint the possible 
situation. 

Steamers for Australia sailed only once a 
month. Our agent went a month in advance 
of us, taking a good stock of printed matter 
to prepare the way. The voyage from 
" Frisco " to Sydney takes twenty-eight days. 
We were advertised to start on a Saturday, 
and our Club was to give a concert in Hono- 
lulu the following Saturday ; but the English 
mails were late in reaching " Frisco," and we 
could not sail till Sunday. That fact unfortu- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 213 

nately prevented our reaching Honolulu till 
the Sunday following, and we gave no concert 
till we made the return trip, ten months later. 

We had a pleasant and uneventful voyage 
on the steamer Zelandia. It is just one week's 
sail to Honolulu. The ship requires about ten 
hours to unload and loaci. The next port made 
is Auckland, in New Zealand, fourteen days' 
sail, where a stop of from six to eight hours 
is made. The next port is Sydney, in New 
South Wales, seven days' sail, and the end of 
the trip. 

After a few days' rest and a chance to get 
our fingers into working order, we gave a 
soiree, by invitation, in Pahling's piano ware- 
rooms, to newspaper and music people. The 
papers declared that nothing so thoroughly 
artistic as our Club had hitherto visited their 
colony. It was a good send-off. 

Throughout the colonies our system of giv- 
ing concerts was very different from that in 
vogue in the United States. We generally 
hired a hall or opera house for two weeks, and 
played nightly, giving more classic music than 
we would then have dared to play at home. 
Generally there were four different prices for 
admission, ranging from one to four or five 
shillings. Very many people bought their 



214 Recollections of an Old Musician 

tickets at the doors with bank checks. I have 
often had as many as fifty of these little checks 
on different banks, the amounts ranging from 
two shillings to a pound. It was a nice little 
job each morning to get them cashed. 

About four days before we sailed from San 
Francisco, the shooting of President Garfield 
had occurred. At Honolulu we could hear no 
report of the good man's condition. Fourteen 
days later, on arriving at Auckland, the Amer- 
ican consul came to the ship to give us the 
joyful news that Garfield was out of danger, 
and would probably "pull through." That 
was a cheering send-off for the next trip of 
seven days. But alas ! on the morning fol- 
lowing our arrival at Sydney came the very 
sad news of his death. Genuine sorrow was 
felt by the citizens of Sydney ; the stores were 
closed, all business was stopped, and a public 
meeting was called in the City Hall. All 
Americans were present and many speeches of 
condolence were made by sympathizers. We 
were made to realize that in the branches of the 
English-speaking race a strong relationship 
exists ; hit one member of the family hard, and 
you hit all. 

When I sailed away from America's shores 
my good wife insisted that I should contribute 



Recollections of an Old Musician 215 

a letter once a month for the Boston Transcript. 
I wrote five such letters, from which I quote 
freely in the following account of our Austra- 
lian experiences. 

After our arrival in Sydney and the sairie 
by invitation, we gave concerts in the City 
Hall for two weeks. We also made a trip into 
Queensland, stopping first at Brisbane, the cap- 
ital of the colony, five hundred miles north of 
Sydney, on the coast. Most of our travelling 
was by water, as we only visited the cities, and 
they lay on the fringe of the continent We be- 
came pretty good sailors, and thought no more 
bf a voyage of from two to seven days than 
we would of a trip from Boston to Springfield 
or Portland by rail. On the voyage to Bris- 
bane we sailed most of the time within a few 
miles of the shore, and could see that the 
country was almost a wilderness, covered with 
eucalyptus trees, of the prevailing olive-green 
colon Two days' sail brought us to Brisbane, a 
city with a population of thirty thousand. We 
underwent the doctor's inspection, and then 
put up at a comfortable hotel. We gave 
about seven concerts, then took steamer for 
Maryborough, twenty-four hours distant. 

Early on the morning of the next day some 
aborigines came on board from an island ; real 



2i6 Recollections of an Old Musician 

natives, — ^six men and three women — a mean 
lot The women were in full, extra gala trav- 
elling costume (and I was given to understand 
were in deep mourning). Their heads were 
decorated with a mass of small copper-colored 
feathers, gummed to their hair, over which was 
a rag of a handkerchief which, keeping all in 
place, was tied under the chin. One young 
woman was extra gay. Her dress consisted of 
an old Balmoral skirt, held with a string going 
up over the left shoulder, crossing the back, 
and meeting the skirt again under the right 
arm. This picturesque arrangement left both 
arms, and, in fact, the whole body, quite unfet- 
tered. I was told (it may have been a libel, 
though) that on their reservations, mainly 
islands, their costume consists of the feathers 
only. The other two women were dressed a 
little more in the fashion of the day. They 
had cotton gowns on, docked rather short it is 
true, and ragged and torn, but that simply took 
away a certain otherwise inevitable stiffness. 
The gowns were fresh from the ash-pit, that 
was certain ; no poor laundress had to suffer 
from their exacting ideas of nicety. They all 
wore the hosiery Nature gave them, their shoes 
were untanned except by the sun, and — oh, 
poor creatures ! — such thin shanks ! 



Recollections of an Old Musician 2 1 7 

Bread and meat were given them. Charm- 
ing was it to see their mutual friendliness. A 
large bone, with plenty of meat, was in the 
hands of one of the party ; he or she would 
take a good generous mouthful from the bone, 
then pass it to the next, and so on. When 
they had polished the bones and were satisfied, 
they squatted on the poop-deck and began 
playing cards, each chipping in a penny for the 
pool. They grew very excited over the loss of 
a trick, and it was a severe struggle every 
time, both with cards and tongue, to get the 
pool. 

The gentlemen of this party had to work 
their passage, cleaning brasses, unloading 
cargo, etc. They were all of a dark negro 
color, with a very mean, despicable look, such 
as you see sometimes in a cur dog ; they drink 
to excess. Up-country here, they always have 
dogs with them. Men and women, always in 
Indian file, follow each other, — never two to- 
gether, — ^always scolding and quarrelling. The 
women often carry a scanty little wardrobe, 
blanket, etc., on a clothesline which, put round 
the neck, hangs down their backs — baby thrown 
in. They are all beggars in towns, and are not 
allowed to sleep within the precincts ; they 
stretch out anywhere, the climate being merci- 



2i8 Recollections of an Old Musician 

fuL Speaking of climate in Queensland, it 
may be summed up as fine. We are now only 
two hundred miles from the Tropic of Capri- 
corn. The sun shines hot, but the atmosphere 
is never debilitating, Miasma and malaria are 
totally unknown. 

In Maryborough we gave four concerts, do- 
ing a fair business. By rail we went sixty miles 
in the interior to Gympie, a mining-town on the 
hills. As they never have frost, the bulk of 
miners live in little huts of bark, or tents, and 
can sleep out of doors the year round. In- 
deed, beds for extra guests in hotels are made 
up on verandas and piazzas. 

Our concert room here is the Variety Thea- 
tre, a fair-sized barn, with doors on hinges up 
near the roof, opening for light and air. The 
sides are of weather-boards only, the roof 
shingled withth in hardwood, no lining ; stars 
shine through ; and as people commonly carry 
umbrellas, they are prepared to use them in 
case of a sudden shower. The night of the 
first concert, we had in the shilling part — rear 
end of the bam — ^about two hundred people, 
mostly miners. These gentlemen were pre- 
pared to enjoy the concert in their own way, 
nearly every one having a good honest clay 
pipe. The little wax matches which light with 



Recollections of an Old Musician 219 

a snapping noise were going all the time, — 
you could plainly see the spark on the back- 
ground of good thick smoke. As we had a 
large front part of house at four and three 
shillings, I made up my mind to try the effect 
of a coaxing appeal to the gentlemen in the 
rear to abstain from smoking. I spoke of the 
heat, close air, the general enjoyment which all 
would realize if they would abstain from smok- 
ing while the performances went on. It had 
the desired effect: they put up their pipes, 
were very quiet, attentive, and enthusiastic; 
but when approaching the end of part first, we 
could hear the little explosive matches on all 
sides going like fireworks, and at the last note 
up rose nearly every man, with a good head 
of pipe on, and marched out the side door, to 
take the air, and " see a friend." 

We usually allow nearly fifteen minutes be- 
tween parts; our agent rings a bell out-of- 
doors like the schoolmarm, and in they troop. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

AFTER our venture in Queensland we re- 
turned to Sydney and prepared for our 
trip to Tasmania, formerly named Van Die- 
men's Land, — an island about two hundred 
miles long and shaped like a crusader's shield. 
It was three days' sail from New South Wales. 
We reached Hobart, the capital of the colony, 
situated at its southern extremity, on December 
24th. Steaming into the bay on a lovely early 
summer morning, the view was enchanting. 
On the left of the bay, rising from a beauti- 
ful sandy beach, stands Mount Nelson, twelve 
hundred feet high, with a very picturesque 
flag station on the summit. At the right of 
the bay, at the base of a hill, is Battery Point, 
a rounded eminence of greensward. Between 
these two points lies snugly ensconced the 
town, which spreads up and over the slopes of 
numerous small hills having for background a 
high hill, densely wooded, then a deep valley, 
and then, to crown the picture, directly in the 
centre. Mount Wellington, 4166 feet high. The 

220 



wr 



Recollections of an Old Musician 221 

whole make-up of bay, shipping, handsome 
buildings, and embowered dwellings, with an 
old-fashioned red brick windmill on a hill, its 
skeleton arms, now unused, stretching out, 
made a picture more attractive than any my 
eyes ever rested on — ^and further acquaintance 
with the town but increased its charm for me. 

There are the usual recreation-grounds for 
the people, a beautiful demesne on the edge 
of the bay ; a good-sized historical museum, 
containing valuable coins, birds, beasts, fishes, 
and geological specimens found in the colonies ; 
a large public library, and handsome town hall, 
where we played, — ^which, by the way, has three 
glass chandeliers worthy to be placed in a Pa- 
risian opera house. In the centre of a pretty 
garden square stands a handsome bronze statue 
of Sir John Franklin, who was one of the 
former governors. There is also a fine bo- 
tanic garden of rare trees, fruits, and flowers. 

The day following our arrival being Christ- 
mas Day, we duly celebrated it by making up 
a party of four Americans, including Professor 
Denton of Boston (the lecturer on geology, 
who had just concluded a series of lectures), 
to " do " Mount Wellington. It proved to be 
a very fatiguing tramp of twenty-one miles 
there and back, but richly were we rewarded. 



222 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Part of the way up a very steep trail, when 
Hearing the summit, we had about a quarter of 
a mile of the roughest kind of climbing, over 
what is called the " ploughed fields," made up 
of huge, basaltic, columnar rocks, which for- 
merly were the face of the mountain, and in 
falling were shattered, crushed, wedged in, and 
then rounded in time by the elements. This 
struggle over, we were fairly on the table-land 
Another one and a half miles brought us to 
the looking-off place, the view from which was 
certainly grand beyond description. The day 
was warm and perfect, the atmosphere clear. 
We could see about ninety miles distant, over 
nearly three fourths of the horizon. It was a 
beautiful intermingling of land and sea, — in- 
numerable bays making in from the ocean, 
some with bluffy margins, others with lovely 
sweeps of half-moon beaches ; all wonderfully 
fascinating, the sea being of a very light blue 
and the breakers on the bright sand beaches 
making a uniform fringe of pure white, marry- 
ing exquisitely with the background of thickly 
wooded shores. These beautiful effects of 
color and shape made us fairly wild with de- 
light. Then there were various narrow arms 
of the sea making into the land, which, sloping 
off gently on both sides to the water, gave 



Recollections of an Old Musician 223 

promise of opportunity in the coming years 
for homes fit for a race of artist-kings. In- 
deed, we all agreed that if Tasmania were part 
of Northeastern America, it would speedily be- 
come one of the greatest watering-places, in the 
finest sense, in the world. From our objective 
point we could look down on the streets of 
Hobart, the harbor, and about twenty miles up 
the Derwent River. 

We gave ten concerts in Hobart (population 
about twenty thousand), all well attended, with 
one great crowd on the night of a concert given 
under the patronage of the new governor. 
All the fashion, of necessity, were out Leav- 
ing this cozy city, we took train for Launces- 
ton, the only other city in the colony, stopping 
to give one concert each at Oatlands and 
Campbelltown. This latter place is the town 
to which the American government sent a 
body of astronomers to observe the transit of 
Venus a few years since. These two little 
places, each of about one thousand population, 
gave us crowds. They came in from long 
distances. 

Launceston, with a population of about 
twelve thousand, has not the natural beauties of 
Hobart, but is nevertheless a handsome town, 
built upon the sides of a hill, and is the centre 



224 Recollections of an Old Musician 

of a fine farming country — farms resembling 
those seen in Vermont — with plenty of fat cattle 
and thousands of sheep. Two rivers, the North 
and South Esk, here join and form the Tamar, 
— ^a pretty harbor for shipping. The South 
£sk is for many miles a swift cataract, running 
through a gorge in the mountains filled with 
wild, picturesque beauty. Where it debouches 
into the Tamar, it is spanned from hill to hill 
by a light iron bridge two hundred feet long 
and of a single arch, forming a very graceful 
object in the landscape. 

In Launceston we gave five evening con- 
certs of mixed music and one matinee of clas- 
sic, to large and enthusiastic audiences. In 
both cities they have musical associations 
which give oratorios ; though I noticed that 
in one of the cities there is a professor who 
advertises to " teach singing and music" One 
delightful souvenir of Launceston I shall not 
soon forget, — ^the charming hospitality of a 
most remarkable woman, between sixty and 
seventy years of age, authoress, poetess, and 
accomplished artist, married early in life in 
England, her husband high in government life. 
She has written a series of works describ- 
ing Tasmania, illustrated by her pencil in quite 
a wonderful way ; and her abundant means 



Recollections of an Old Musician 225 

enabled her to have them printed in London 
for private distribution. While still a girl, liv- 
ing in Birmingham, England, in 1833 Paganini, 
the great, visited that city. A few verses of 
poetic rapture on hearing him play brought 
him to her feet He expressed his homage 
by presenting her a silhouette picture, with a 
suitable dedication in his own handwriting, on 
a page in an album, on the opposite page of 
which the great man wrote the first eight 
measures of the Campanella Rondo for violin. 
My delight and surprise at seeing such a sou- 
venir in so remote a quarter of the globe may 
be easily imagined by musicians. 

The history of Tasmania is full of interest, 
made so chiefly by the fact that all the de- 
ported criminals formerly in Botany Bay were 
carried to that island. That act, joined to the 
** wiping out " (so to characterize it) of the 
native population, has created a page of his- 
tory as savage as it is romantic. I can add to 
that history a few facts quite in keeping with 
the general trend of Tasmania's records. 

When I was a boy of perhaps six years of 
age, my father's regiment was stationed in 
Plymouth, England. An order came from 
the government that two soldiers from each 
infantry regiment could volunteer to go to 

»5 



226 Recollections of an Old Musician 

Tasmania. They must however be married 
men and each have at least two children. On 
arriving at the colony, they would receive 
their free discharge, a tract of land, and some 
money to help them to start in the new life. 
The government's plan was to have in that 
colony a force of men suitable to do police 
duty. I remembered that two men volunteered 
from our regiment. 

On my arrival in Hobart, the capital of 
the colony, I sought information about these 
old volunteers ; I had remembered the name 
of one of them, and that was a help in getting 
on to their traces. I quickly ascertained that 
one of them was dead, and the other was a 
poor imbecile in a distant asylum. Their fam- 
ilies had quite disappeared from the island 



CHAPTER XXVII 

ON January 19, 1882, we returned to 
Sydney and made a short tour in the in- 
terior of the colony. While on this trip I was 
fated to have a personal experience as strange 
as anything to be found in a novel. 

Just before I was married in 1854, a brother 
of my future wife was induced by some young 
men of his own age to try his fortunes in 
Australia. The reports of the gold ** finds " 
in that country were more attractive even 
than those coming from California. 

The party sailed from New York in one of 
the American clipper ships for the city of 
Melbourne, and presumably arrived in safety ; 
but, though my wife wrote many letters to her 
brother, in the care of the American consul, 
no replies ever reached us. Year after year 
rolled by, with its growing uneasiness concern- 
ing the fate of the gold-seeker, till, finally, 
in the twenty-eighth year of his absence an 
intimate friend going to Australia promised 
faithfully to aid us, and did ascertain that the 

227 



228 Recollections of an Old Musician 

brother had been dead for several years, leav- 
ing a widow and one child, and that he had 
been reputed to be a wealthy man. We wrote 
to the widow, but no reply came ; Australia, 
like the United States, is a big country. 
Part of my object in visiting those distant 
colonies was to find that widow, but up to the 
time of our arrival in New South Wales, I had 
made no movement in that direction, for I was 
awaiting our visit to the colony of Victoria, 
when I meant to visit the Ballarat region. 

On this trip we arrived towards evening in 
a small town where we were to give a concert. 
I was met by our agent at the railroad station, 
who told me that the proprietress of the hotel 
was a relative of mine, and was very anxious to 
meet me. Approaching the house, I saw a 
lady waiting on the piazza The agent intro- 
duced me by name. She was strangely agi- 
tated, and asked me if I did not once have a 
brother-in-law in the colony. I replied, ** No ; 
I did have one in Victoria, but he is no longer 
alive, and I intend to search out his widow 
when I visit Victoria." The lady said, " I 
knew the husband intimately and also the 
widow." I asked, " What kind of woman is 
the widow, and can you tell me where I can 
find her ? " She replied, " She is not far to 



Recollections of an Old Musician 229 

seek and is a good woman." Instantly I ex- 
claimed, "Then you are the widow?" "Yes," 
was the reply, in broken tones. 

A young lady, under twenty years of age, 
then came forward, and was introduced as 
her daughter, who had recently been married. 
Both mother and daughter were greatly 
affected. After a while I was able to learn 
their histories. 

The dead husband was a thorough Ameri- 
can ; he had worked in the mines, carried on a 
sizable hotel, and had made a good deal of 
money. Meantime his health failed ; in short, 
he was consumptive. The wife urged him to 
make a trip to the United States, to see his 
relations once more, and then return. Decid- 
ing to carry out this plan, he had a special 
carriage made for his comfort by which to go 
to Melbourne, about two hundred miles dis- 
tant. An American was selected to travel 
with him, and a large sum of money in cash 
and drafts, sufficient for the entire trip, was 
drawn from the bank. 

The sick man started on his long journey, 
in very dejected spirits. On the second day 
a telegram reached the wife to the effect that 
she must hasten to a town en route if she 
wanted to see her husband alive. She started 



230 Recollections of an Old Musician 

at once, but he had passed away from this 
life before she could reach him. Very little of 
the money he had taken was found on his 
person ; the people round him declared it must 
have been stolen while he lay asleep the first 
night. 

The usual troubles followed, — ^the return 
cortige to the desolate home, the law settle- 
ments, etc After all expenses and debts 
were paid, not much ready money was left, 
and of real estate only the hotel. The lady 
remained a widow for several years ; then she 
realized that a husband would be a great help, 
and was married to a good man. 

A few years were passed in comfort — ^then 
dire misery again supervened. The hotel, 
which was a wooden -frame building, took 
fire and was destroyed. The wife saved some 
personal effects, — among them the former 
husband's old American trunk, which had 
always stood on the piazza outside their door. 
When trying to save things from the flames, 
she happened to notice it, gave it a shove, and 
it fell to the ground. It was saved to furnish 
a pathetic proof of the vicissitudes which can 
attend the life of a poor old American trunk. 
It had now one badly charred end, and the 
body of it barely held together. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 231 

Another thing saved was a lady's hat-box 
in which were letters written to the brother and 
his widow by my wife, also a few carte-de-visite 
pictures which we had sent them from time to 
time. It was a singular collection and illus- 
trated the story told me by the wife and 
daughter. 

The latter showed me with great pride 
another thing she had managed to save from 
the fire, her father's old American-made guitar. 
He was a good player and used to play ac- 
companiments for the little daughter's singing ; 
so her first instinct on the night of the fire 
was to save the old guitar. As she told me 
the story she took up the old instrument, put 
her arms round it, and embraced and kissed it 
as if in affectionate remembrance of her father. 

This long story was told after our evening 
concert, and I wrote it down in black and 
white, not daring to trust it to memory, and 
mailed the record to my family. 

To return to our travels, we gave a fare- 
well concert at Sydney which was very grati- 
fying. The music-lovers had decorated the 
stage with flowers and large English and 
American flags. Enthusiasm quite reached 
fever-heat when, at the right moment, a lady 
came on the stage and handed me, as con- 



232 Recollections of an Old Musician 

ductor of the Club, two very beautiful flags, 
English and American, made of satin, and fully 
three feet long, with an inscription in silver 
letters wishing us all " good luck." 

The next day we sailed for Melbourne, the 
Mecca of our pilgrimage, five hundred miles dis- 
tant. We spent a month delightfully in that city, 
which we found to be a musical one, if several 
musical societies and many concerts are good 
proof of that statement. 

We made our dibut in a concert given by 
the Apollo Club, a society built on the lines 
of that of Boston. It was for us a grand 
send-off. The conductor was Mr. Julius Herz, 
an enthusiastic and accomplished musician. 

Another fine musician, conductor of the 
"Melbourne Club," was Mr. Julius Siede, 
with whom I was glad to meet and revive old 
memories. He had come to the United States 
with GungFs Orchestra, and was a brilliant 
flautist. When that orchestra returned to 
Germany, Siede settled in New York, but 
afterward came to Boston. He then trav- 
elled to the antipodes with Madame Anna 
Bishop and Bochsa, the harpist. Siede fi- 
nally made Melbourne his home. He was 
curious to know all about " the States," and we 
had many long talks before the time came for 



Recollections of an Old Musician 233 

our club to leave the magnificent city of Mel- 
bourne. 

We sailed to Adelaide, capital of South 
Australia, two days distant. It is a charming 
city with a population of fifty thousand. We 
gave about ten concerts, with fair success. We 
had there an experience of hot weather, never 
to be forgotten ; for two days the mercury 
registered 1 20 degrees in the shade. 

Returning to Melbourne, we had a splendid 
farewell concert in the grand City Hall. We 
were honored by the attendance of all the 
city dignitaries, in their regal robes. After 
the concert, the Club and the assisting artists 
were treated to a supper in the mayor's room. 
When parting-day came we bade good-bye 
with regret to the many Melbourne people 
who had become warm friends. 

We were now to start on the home-stretch, 
— New Zealand being the point where we be- 
gan to turn our faces toward America. We 
had a stormy sail of six days to reach Inver- 
cargill, the lowest point on the South Island. 

I will give but a summary of our work in 
New Zealand : Three concerts in Invercargill, 
population 6000 ; ten in Dunedin, population 
40,000; thirteen in Christchurch, population 
28,000 ; six in Auckland, population 20,000. 



234 Recollections of an Old Musician 

In Dunedin (Scotch for Edinboro') we met 
with an old fellow-artist, Mr. Beno Schereck, 
who used to travel as pianist with Madame 
Camille Urso. In Christchurch (a city started 
by the Bishop of Canterbury) I had the pleas- 
ure of meeting Mr. Julius Haast, the curator 
of the great Museum. He had lived in the 
United States many years, and was famous 
for being the finder of the Moa bird. 

On the trip to Auckland we stopped at 
Wellington, the capital of New Zealand. I 
had a note of introduction to Dr. Hector, the 
curator of the large Government Museum. He 
also had lived in the United States, and was a 
man of resolute character, happiest when he 
had some dangerous exploring trip on hand. 
I must repeat a story he told. He had been 
ordered by the government to visit the Maori 
country and examine a little lake singularly 
placed in the cup of what looked like an ex- 
tinct crater, on quite a high mountain ; the 
water of the lake having an issuance on the 
mountainside, far below its bottom, thence 
forming a river. The doctor's duty was to 
obtain from the Maoris permission to examine 
and measure it. 

The mountain was in the heart of the Maori 
country, a sacred burial-place, and of course 



Recollections of an Old Musician 235 

tabooed to all white people. After a long 
journey on horseback he reached the Pa (vil- 
lage) of the tribe, and requested its chiefs to 
permit him as government surveyor to make 
a drawing of the mountain lake. They told 
him they would consider the matter, call a 
meeting of the chiefs for the next evening, 
and then let him know their decision. The 
professor's time was valuable ; he could n't wait 
for the Maori red tape to be measured, etc. 
Apparently acquiescing in the arrangements of 
the council, he spent the night quietly resting. 
Next morning he started out in an opposite 
direction to the mountain, went into the bush, 
found a secure hiding-place for his horse, tied 
him, made a detour on foot, climbed the sacred 
mountain, and made a satisfying drawing of 
the lake. It was a very risky thing to do. 
Returning to his horse and back to the village, 
he attended the meeting, and received permis- 
sion, never before given to a white man, to 
visit the sacred spot; he then showed them 
his completed drawing. All they did was 
quietly to laugh over the affair. 

I have seen goodly numbers of the Maoris 
on the coast steamers and in the streets of 
cities. Physically, they are a fine race, — ^tall 
and well formed. Only among the old men 



236 Recollections of an Old Musician 

can one now see those whose faces are tattooed. 
Most of the women, young and old, are tat- 
tooed across the red of both lips, then incurved 
double lines toward the chin, meeting there, 
then a small device in the centre. The enr 
semble makes the impression of a faint goatee 
whisker, when seen from a little distance. 

Four days' sail carried us to Auckland, 
where we gave six successful concerts. Then, 
on the 23d of May, we embarked on the noble 
steamship City of New York^ flying the " Stars 
and Stripes," and commanded by the most 
fatherly of men, Captain Cobb ; which in good 
time brought us to our homeland.* 

En route, after a voyage of fourteen days, 
we stopped at Honolulu. It had been ar- 
ranged for us to give a concert in that city if 
circumstances permitted. When our ship was 
approaching the shore, on June 5, 1882, but 
was still about two miles from the wharf, a 
fleet of small boats came out to meet friends, 
and from one of them came the questions, "Is 
the Quintette Club on board ? Are they ready 
to give the concert ? " To which we joyfully 
replied, "Yes." Thereupon, the boat signalled 

^As before stated, these notes of travel in Anstralia, etc., are 
qnoted from letters written at the time, and no attempt is made to 
bring them np to date. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 237 

the wharf, and the news was sent to the tele- 
phone office. Thence it was promptly speeded 
round the city, reserved seats were taken with 
a rush, and we had a fine audience. Nearly 
all the passengers on our ship, 250 in number, 
were present, as well as the best society in the 
place, including King Kalakaua and his court, 
crowding the boxes of the opera house. Af- 
ter the concert we were f6ted by a German 
society at their club-rooms, where we " made a 
night of it," until it was time for the ship to 
sail, early next morning. 

A voyage of seven days brought us to San 
Francisco. As we sailed through the Golden 
Gate, and I looked with mingled pride and 
pleasure on the familiar scenes, every object 
seemed to have a voice, and all sang to my 
ears, ** Welcome home again," and I was glad. 

When the Club made its first visit to Cali- 
fornia, our singer was Miss Marie Nellini, a 
brilliant singer, but a very poor sailor. When 
preparing for Australia, we were able to en- 
gage a good singer who was also a good sailor. 
Miss Cora Miller. On our return from Aus- 
tralia, I was introduced by Mrs. Rosewald, the 
well-known vocal teacher in San Francisco, to 
Marie Barnard. I discovered immediately that 
she was a genius in her line. She travelled 



238 Recollections of an Old Musician 

with us for two seasons, and then went to 
Paris to prepare for the operatic stage. She 
has since developed into a good actress under 
the name of Marie Bama. 

When leaving for Europe she promised to 
find a singer to replace her. In a very few 
weeks she cabled me, " Have found fine singer 
for you." In due season Miss Lila Juel ar- 
rived, young, tall, handsome, and a Swede. She 
sang with me for two years. It would be diffi- 
cult to find a better concert singer or a more 
amiable person. 

In 1862, Teresa Carrefto, a remarkable child 
pianist, nine years of age, accompanied by her 
father and mother, came to the United States 
from Caracas, Venezuela. 

The father of this ** wonder child " was a man 
of distinguished political position in his coun- 
try, and was also a devoted musical amateur. 
He was the child's only instructor up to her 
seventh year of age ; then Julius Hoheni, a 
German professor, took charge of her. On 
the arrival of the family in New York, the dis- 
tinguished pianist, Gottschalk, took the great- 
est interest in the little girl, gave her lessons, 
and taught her many of his brilliant pieces. 

Teresa was gifted with a wonderful memory. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 239 

She could acquire the mastery of a lengthy, 
difficult fantaisie in two or three days. This 
gift is always the surest sign of a musical tem- 
perament that will bring distinction to its 
possessor. 

Teresa made her first appearance in Boston, 
January 4, 1863. She remained here about 
one month, and was a great attraction at the 
grand orchestral concerts which were given at 
that period under the direction of Carl Zerrahn 
or P. S. Gilmore. She created 2l furore of 
enthusiasm every time she played. I doubt 
if any child pianist of the same age has ever 
exceeded her in ability. Imagine a child of 
nine years playing Thalberg's Moses^ Gott- 
schalk's yerusalem, and similar pieces, full of 
technical difficulties. 

Teresa was a lovable character, rather 
sedate and thoughtful, with very attractive 
features, beautiful, pleading eyes, and a strong 
and healthful physique. My family were 
greatly attracted to her. She and her mother, 
a large handsome woman, paid us several visits. 
Teresa never failed to bring her doll with her. 

At the end of the Boston visit, Teresa gave 
what was termed a Juvenile Reception to at 
least three thousand school children in Music 
Hall. She wished distinctly to do this thing ; 



240 Recollections of an Old Musician 

she said that being herself a child, she wanted 
the children of Boston to hear her. At this con- 
cert his Honor Mayor Cobb (I think it was) 
led Teresa on to the stage and made a little 
speech ; then she played, to the children's great 
delight ; after which came the reception, first 
in the anteroom, and then on the stage. It 
was with difficulty she could tear herself away 
from her young hearers. 

Carreflo's artistic life is well known in Amer- 
ica, for though she paid many visits to her own 
country and Europe, a large part of her early 
life was spent among us. She can certainly be 
called American at least by adoption. As a 
pianist she has for years stood in the front 
rank of brilliant players. A few seasons ago 
she played the great No. 4 Concerto, by Ru- 
binstein, in one of the Boston Symphony Con- 
certs. I was one of the delighted listeners. 

While she was thrilling me with her magnif- 
icent playing of the great composition, my 
mind was travelling back to her iirst appearance 
in that same Music Hall, when as a little child 
she had to climb upon the music stool to 
play her piece. After the concert I did myself 
the honor of visiting her. In conversation, we 
went over much that had happened in her art 
life. She, as a good American, wished to know 



Recollections of an Old Musician 241 

all about the progress of music in the United 
States since she had made her home in 
Germany. 

I regard her as a wonderful player in all 
respects. She is now in the prime of life, 
strong and vigorous, full of verve and intelli- 
gence, of fine mental grasp, and is as thoroughly 
devoted to her art as she was at twenty years 
of age. Her great popularity therefore is 
easily accounted for. 

z6 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

WHEN our club arrived in San Francisco 
from Australia in the summer of '82, 
we received a cable message from Mr. Henry 
E, Abbey, then in London, offering us an en- 
gagement to travel the coming season with 
Madame Christine Nilsson. It was joyfully 
accepted, and the season was one of the pleas- 
antest we ever passed. We performed on the 
average three or four times each week, visiting 
only large cities East and West, and New 
Orleans and California. The company com- 
prised : Madame Nilsson, soprano ; Miss Hope 
Glen, alto (an American singer who has lived 
most of her time in London) ; Mr. Theodore 
Biorksten, tenor ; Signor Del Puente, the well- 
known baritone; Mr. Charles Pratt, accom- 
panist ; and the Mendelssohn Quintette Club. 
Madame Nilsson was in the prime of her 
vocal powers, and her renditions of the Ah 
Perfido, Angels ever Bright and Fair, and Conr 
nais tu le pays, were examples of great singing. 
Wer cheval de battaille, however, was the "Jewel 

24a 



CHRISTINE NILSSON. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 243 

Song " from Faust, by Gounod. She used to 
" go through all the motions," just the same as 
she would in opera. Her ballad singing was a 
revelation of the fine, tender heart she pos- 
sessed. It was a rare occasion when she was 
not forced by popular desire to sing the Suwanee 
River. She doubtless will be remembered by 
the great mass of music-lovers as the lady who 
sang so touchingly about the "old folks at 
home." 

Many people have an incorrect idea of 
Madame Nilsson's personality; it was popu- 
larly reported that she was cold, austere, dis- 
tant, and unapproachable. As I had a rare 
opportunity to learn her true character, I can 
sum it up in a few words : in public and on the 
stage she was dignified and queen-like, but in 
private life she was full of geniality and amia- 
bility. As an example of her good-heartedness 
I will instance a pleasant evening she made 
for us on Christmas eve in Denver, Colorado. 

During the day she sent for me and re- 
quested me to get the members of the com- 
pany to meet together in her parlor at sharp 
nine in* the evening, and confided to me her 
plans for their entertainment. Accordingly I 
saw them all and suggested that it would be 
a charming thing for us to surprise Nilsson 



244 Recollections of an Old Musician 

with a Christmas-eve call ; as fellow-artists she 
certainly would be delighted to see us. They 
thought it a good idea ; and we called on her 
very near the appointed hour, each one entering 
singly, and expressing pleasure at meeting the 
others. 

Nilsson carried out her part with the tact of a 
consummate actress, receiving each visitor with 
amiable and friendly greeting. Altogether 
there were eleven of us, besides the Danish 
minister and his wife. For a while we had a 
pleasant time chatting with our hostess and each 
other; then suddenly we heard three sharp 
knocks on the door, — ^bang-bang-bang, — and 
we all cried out, " II Commendatore from Don 
Giovanni I " 

** Mercy on us, what is that ! " exclaimed 
Nilsson. Bang-bang-bang, — came three more 
knocks. " Won't some one go to the door ? " 
she asked. " Such a knock as that on Christ- 
mas eve is rather terrifying." 

I ran to the door, opened it cautiously, and 
then threw it wide open, disclosing to view two 
men with a great basket, big enough for the 
** buck-basket " in Falstaff. " Madame," I ex- 
plained, "these men say they have been or- 
dered to bring this basket to you, with Mn 
Abbey's compliments." 



Recollections of an Old Musician 245 

The basket was set in the midst of the 
room ; the lid was lifted ; Nilsson went down 
beside it, and after removing a mass of paper 
and wrappings brought a lot of Christmas gifts 
to light, — one for each of the party, all duly 
marked in her own handwriting. 

After these gifts had all been received, and 
inspected with much pleasure and merriment, 
Madame Nilsson said, " Mr. Ryan, please help 
me to put the basket outside the door " ; and I 
ran to aid her. As we lifted it she said, 
** Why, I feel a great weight still ; what can it 
be ? " Dipping down deeper into the basket 
she brought up some very nice things to eat, 
and a goodly number of bottles of Golden-Seal 
champagne. 

We drank to the health of everybody, our 
hearts grew light and merry, and the home- 
sickness we felt at being away from home on 
Christmas eve was dispelled. It was in Nils- 
son's power, as the " star " of the company, to 
make us all happy, and most charmingly she 
did it. Her thoughtfulness on that occasion 
placed her very high in my estimation. 

A few years later, we received another cable 
message from Mr. Henry E. Abbey, engaging 
our club to travel with the wonderful boy pian- 



246 Recollections of an Old Musician 

ist, Otto Hegner. We opened the season 
with him in the Metropolitan Opera House in 
New York City. For that occasion, in addi- 
tion to the Hegner company, a grand orchestra 
under Walter Damrosch was employed. The 
engagement lasted less than three months, for 
the " star boy-pianist," though acknowledged 
by the press to be a marvel for one so young, 
did not " take " well enough with the public to 
produce good financial results. It was there- 
fore wise to end the tour as soon as the situa- 
tion became evident. 

In the previous year the little Josie Hoff- 
mann, another boy pianist, had had an enormous 
success under Mr. Abbey's management, and 
a repetition of the same kind of performance 
is pretty sure to be a failure. The young Heg- 
ner was a perfect little darling, and yet a manly 
boy, of lovable disposition, entirely unaffected, 
unspoiled, tractable, and respectful to his father 
to a degree not generally found in such preco- 
cious folk. When he returned to Europe he 
was placed under competent masters for sys- 
tematic study. The boy of yore has now 
grown to man's estate, and his genius is ac- 
knowledged, for he has played with success 
in the best concerts given in the capitals of 
Europe. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

A HISTORY of the incidents and happen- 
ings that our club met with while filling 
engagements would suffice to fill a book of 
respectable size. Some of them were exas- 
perating, some were droll, and others were 
discouraging. But they were all " in the day's 
work," and helped to make up the life. I 
recall a few, which may serve as types of the 
numerous whole. 

The first concert we ever gave in Topeka, 
Kansas, about thirty-five years ago, was signal- 
ized by a scene I shall not soon forget We 
had a full house in the local concert hall. I 
noticed when we began to play that the front 
row of seats was empty, evidently reserved 
for some special people. Those "specials" 
came in while we played our first piece. They 
were Indians, about twelve in number, some 
being " blanket Indians " — ^which means that 
they wore their brilliant blue and yellow striped 
blankets shawl-wise, and their buckskin mocca- 
sins, and that their faces and front hair were 

247 



248 Recollections of an Old Musician 

painted The rest of the party were dressed like 
good, stock-raising American farmers, but were 
unmistakably Indians. I was told there was a 
father with six sons in the party, all very large, 
broad-shouldered men. They filed quietly into 
their seats, preceded by a local guide, in whose 
hands they seemed like good, docile children. 

They had come to town to get their govern- 
ment allowance, and our local agent induced 
them to take in the show. It was doubtless 
a case of reciprocity, for we certainly "took 
them in." One can never know what they 
thought of us, but one can do something in 
the way of inference. They sat quite immov- 
able in their seats, with their ox-like eyes fixed 
on our party while we played serious music. 
No shadow of emotion could be seen on their 
countenances. 

The fifth number of the programme was a 
violin solo played by Mr. Schultze, and for an 
encore he gave a little caprice entitled. The 
Bird in the Tree^ a charming jeu d^ esprit, by 
Miska Hauser, which represents the joyful, 
almost delirious, singing of a wild bird in the 
woods. The moment Mr. Schultze began this 
piece, the Indians were all alive, their eyes 
sparkled with pleasure, and they nudged each 
other with their elbows. And when the little 



a AND HIS FATHER, 



Recollections of an Old Musician 249 

bird-melody and imitations of bird singing be- 
gan (all done in high harmonic, flageolet tones 
on the violin), they looked all around the ceil- 
ing and the walls, doubtless expecting to see 
singing-birds flitting about. Not seeing any, 
they looked at the violinist, and began to un- 
derstand that he was the magician. The 
surprise, and almost incredulity, which was 
depicted on the faces of these children of na- 
ture was a rare show in itself. At its conclu- 
sion they jumped up and down just as little 
children do when something unusual pleases 
them. 

This violin piece ended the first part of the 
programme. Our second part began with an- 
other serious piece, and the twelve pairs of 
eyes lapsed into the ox-like placidity again. 
Very shortly the red men had had enough of 
us " freaks," and they quietly rose and filed 
out of the hall. 

In this same Topeka, many years later, the 
concluding piece on one of our programmes 
was a potpourri which began with the intro- 
duction to the Der Fretschiltz overture. We 
had a good house and a crowded gallery. In 
the latter two men were seated on the right- 
hand side near the stage, who, when we began 
the closing piece, attempted to get out. They 



250 Recollections of an Old Musician 

had to walk down one side of the hall, then 
across the end, then up the other side, before 
reaching the door, which was the only means 
of ingress or egress to the gallery — ^an awful 
fire-trap. We began the introduction to the 
overture. At this point, up rose the two men 
and started for the door. We stopped playing. 
The silence told the men that something had 
happened, and they sat down again, probably 
not wishing to make a show of themselves by 
walking out, in their number elevens, without 
music. All being quiet, we began the opening 
phrase once more ; up rose again the two men 
and began their march. Again we stopped, 
wishing to let them get out and not have our 
piece spoiled ; and again they stood still, this 
time in the aisle next the wall. We waited a 
little, and hearing no noise we began for the 
third time. Instantly, one of the men, who at 
this point had probably " got his mad up," 
started for the door. With him it was " Pike's 
Peak or bust " this time. When we heard the 
noise we stopped again, whereupon the audi- 
ence began to titter, and the man making for 
the door ran the gauntlet of many ironical 
remarks from the boys, such as, **Take your 
time, old fellow,"— " No hurry,"— " He '11 get 
there,"—" The fiddles '11 wait," etc. Finally he 



. Recollections of an Old Musician 251 

reached the door and slammed it with all his 
might, a parting benediction which, as a rever- 
end friend afterward remarked, said " Damn ! " 
as surely as a word could be translated into 
action. The entire audience understood it in 
that sense and burst into a perfect roar of 
laughter. 

When quiet was restored we played the 
piece, and ended the concert. 

Many of our young and inexperienced friends 
probably think we have led a very sunny life, 
flitting from one scene of enjoyment to another. 
Perhaps we have had our share of good times ; 
but I know to a certainty that we have had 
to take our share of hardships while travelling 
in the West thirty years ago. Railroads were 
not so plentiful as now, and we often had to 
travel on boats and in stage-coaches. 

We had given a concert in Winona, Minn., 
and were booked next evening for La Crosse, 
Wis., twenty-six miles distant, both places 
being on the Mississippi River. It was planned 
that we should take a boat at six a.m. We were 
called and had breakfast in good season, but 
the boat did not show up. About ten a.m., 
word came that she had encountered a severe 
storm up-river, and would not reach Winona 



252 Recollections of an Old Musician 

till about ten in the evening. There was a 
regular mail-boat which left Winona at four 
o'clock in the afternoon, in time to reach La 
Crosse at eight in the evening ; but that was 
rather late to arrive, as the landing was a good 
mile distant from town. Desiring to fill our 
engagement in proper time and shape, I sought 
advice, and finally arranged with a livery-stable 
man to convey us by land. We did not get 
started until eleven in the forenoon ; then we 
were packed, seven in number, into a canvas- 
covered wagon, a genuine " prairie schooner." 
We had eight heavy trunks, making a con- 
siderable load. 

I had bargained to pay the man thirty-five 
dollars, and he agreed to land us in La Crosse 
by five or six o'clock in the evening. As soon 
as we were all loaded, he demanded his money 
in advance. Like an idiot (I did not know 
the world so well then as I did later) I paid it 
We lost time in crossing the river, and it was 
after twelve o'clock before we reached the 
Wisconsin shore. We then had a drive of 
about eight miles of bottom-land through the 
woods, — a drive of the most jolting, dislocating, 
seasickening character, accompanied with the 
constant expectation of being capsized. In 
fact it was simply horrible. We were shut up 



Recollections of an Old Musician 253 

suffocatingly close under the canvas, for it 
was midwinter and extremely cold. 

About four in the afternoon we had climbed 
to a plateau above the bottom-lands, and drew 
up in front of a big bam with a little house 
attached to it, where we got out of our prairie 
schooner, hoping to get something in the line 
of food. A very hard-worked, careworn-look- 
ing woman told us she had nothing in the 
house but salt pork and potatoes; with tea, 
but no coffee, and neither bread nor crackers. 
We asked her to make some tea, which she 
did; but as the stablemen quickly changed 
horses and cried "All aboard!" we could 
swallow but little of the scalding-hot beverage. 

As we started I casually asked our driver 
what time he expected to reach La Crosse, 
— and he thought we might get there between 
nine and ten ! That reply made my heart 
sink. I expostulated, saying, " You know the 
liveryman agreed to deliver us at six p.m. at 
the latest." The driver replied, ** It is im- 
possible ; we are still seventeen miles from La 
Crosse." 

I then understood our dilemma, and the 
blunder we had made by not taking the mail- 
steamer, and also by paying in advance. We 
were in the clutches of unprincipled men. 



254 Recollections of an Old Musician 

After considering for a while what I could do 
to better the situation, I untied the canvas 
where I sat, told the driver to put his head 
near to me, and whispered into his ear, "If 
you can get us into La Crosse by eight p.m., you 
personally will be ten dollars richer." He 
replied, *' All right ; V 11 do it." 

From that time he labored hard for it, and 
almost overturned us when descending a steep 
hill leading to the Blackwater River, a narrow 
and shallow stream which we had to cross 
on a flat-bottomed ferry-boat, run on a wire. 
When about half-way over, we stuck on a 
sand-bank, and the order came, "Turn out 
all hands and help to pole her off." The 
ferrymen got into the shallow water on the 
bank and pried the boat off ; we lost a good 
thirty minutes by that mishap, but it rested 
our horses, and we were rushed forward, and 
finally reached the opera house at 8.15. As 
we got out, we heard the mail-boat whistle ! 

Dead tired, hungry, without even a chance 
to wash our hands or brush our hair, and 
wearing clothes in which we had travelled, we 
unpacked our instruments and music, and 
went through the entire programme, doing our 
best to play and sing for the pleasure of the 
large audience. In the midst of our first piece 



Recollections of an Old Musician 255 

we heard the rattle of carriages which had 
been sent to the boat to transfer us quickly to 
the opera house. The drivers brought up 
word, " Not aboard," and then learned we had 
come overland and were performing on the 
stage. When starting from Winona we could 
not telegraph, as the wires were down. 

That was a day not easily forgotten, — no food 
from five o'clock in the morning till eleven at 
night, and bitter cold weather. But people 
can do wonders when duty forces them on. 

I recall another very disagreeable journey 
for which some fortitude was necessary. We 
had played at a concert in Honesdale, Penn- 
sylvania, and were booked for Montrose the 
following night. We had arranged to take a 
" gravity road " to Scranton, twenty-four miles 
distant, but a heavy snow-storm had blocked 
it up ; no train could run ; and the question 
arose, could we not be carried by sleighs? 
Duty was spurring us on to meet our engage- 
ment and earn our fees. We went to a livery- 
man, who said he would get us to Scranton 
in time for the afternoon train to Montrose 
Junction, or he would make no charge for the 
effort. That was a good principle to work on. 

We agreed to start at six in the morning. 
The weather was clear but very cold. Our 



256 Recollections of an Old Musician 

seven people and the driver were in a three- 
seated open sleigh, while the eight trunks 
and the double-bass (in a large, heavy case) 
were in a " pung." We took plenty of shovels 
with us, as our road was over a mountainous 
region. Many times we had to take down 
stone and wooden fences to get out of snow- 
drifts into open fields on clear ridges. The 
pung and baggage were, of course, the impedi- 
menta ; we had to unload and shovel out very 
often. About ten o'clock we came to a small 
village at the foot of a hill, where we got some 
coffee, and where the people declared that we 
could not possibly get over the next hill, as 
the road was full of drifts ; but our driver was 
confident of success, and inspired us with his 
pluck. We started again, and encountered 
many difficulties. We upset twice while driv- 
ing into fields ; and once all our people were 
thrown into a ditch, the sleigh completely 
covering us, but our driver crawled out and 
helped us out. The atmosphere just then was 
heavy with mutterings, but Miss Ella Lewis, 
our brave and bright singer from Maine, 
kept our tempers sweet by infusing into us 
the hopefulness of her own steady courage. 
What a lucky thing it is for mankind in general 
to have a woman near when trouble comes ! 



Recollections of an Old Musician 257 

We were making very slow progress, and 
began to despair of reaching Scranton; but 
about one o'clock we saw men and teams get- 
ting out ice in a valley below us, when we 
knew that our chances were favorable ; and 
we really got there with half an hour to spare. 
We had a good dinner, gave our benedictions 
to the brave liveryman, and took the train 
for Montrose Junction, There was another 
steep mountain to climb, but I had telegraphed 
the Montrose people that we were coming, 
and they sent us special teams, for the snow- 
drifts were deep. We finally reached the 
hotel at half-past seven. The people gave us 
a right royal welcome, for they fully appreci- 
ated our heroic struggle to fill our engage- 
ment ; and we were happy because our efforts 
had been crowned with success. 

Printers have played some funny tricks with 
our programmes at times. It is a dangerous 
thing not to see a "proof" before printing, 
but often the programme has to be " rushed," 
and there is no opportunity. One of our 
violinists was to play a solo on the old French 
air, '^Je suts le petit tambour'' When the 
concert was over, my attention was called to 
this number on the programme, which read, 
to my horror, ^^ Jesus le petit tambour ^ 

J7 



258 Recollections of an Old Musician 

At another time; Mr. Schultze was playing 
nightly the old caprice by Mtska Hauser, 
entitled. The Bird in the Tree. Writing the 
programme one day in the office of the printer, 
I incautiously wrote, '' Bird business, Mr. 
Schultze,'' supposing that they would print 
the full title as usuaL The programmes were 
printed without giving me a chance to read 
the proof When we came to that special 
number, we noticed a peculiar buzz and fun- 
enjoying condition among our auditors. When 
the concert was over, we inquired the cause, 
and a friend replied, handing us a programme, 
" We wanted to know when Mr. Schultze was 
to begin his ' bird business.' " It was a funny 
way to learn a useful lesson. 



M 



I 



CHAPTER XXX 

AMONG the many musicians with whom I 
I have been brought into contact from 

I time to time, there are some who, for reasons 

I personal or musical, or both, seem to deserve 

special mention before I close these recoUec- 

I tions. 

i 

One of them is J. C, D. Parker, a thorough 
American, born in Boston. His father was a 
steadfast member and worker of the Handel 
and Haydn Society. Mr. Parker, Jr., was 
from childhood a loving student of music, 
although for a time after his graduation at 
Harvard in 1848, he studied law ; but eventu- 
ally his strong musical bent rebelled against 
the giving up of his life to a profession for 
which he had no hearty inclination. At that 
period the Mendelssohn Quintette Club was 
doing a deal of hard studying, and young 
Parker was a constant and welcome visitor at 
our rehearsals. It is probable that our club 
is responsible for whatever trouble or loss may 
have come to him through having made music 

259 



26o Recollections of an Old Musician 

his life-work. At all events he finally started 
for Leipsic, and devoted himself to study for 
three or four years under skilful teachers. 

Returning to Boston in 1854, he became one 
of our fine concert pianists, playing concertos 
in the Harvard Society concerts and most of 
the chamber works in those of the Mendelssohn 
Quintette Club. His solid reputation, how- 
ever, has been earned as a composer. He is 
also well known by his fine translations of 
foreign works on harmony, which have been 
of the greatest service to musicians. 

Although born in Germany, Ernst Perabo 
was brought to this country as a child in 1852, 
and can be considered a good American by 
this time. He received most of his fine mu- 
sical training in the Leipsic Conservatory, 
but returned to this country in 1865, and con- 
tinued his piano studies here. While still a 
young man he ventured on a public perform- 
ance in New York City, where the critics 
promptly discovered that he was a consum- 
mately fine pianist. Shortly after, he came to 
Boston and made a successful dibut in one of 
the Harvard Society concerts, playing with 
great iclat the Hummel Septette. 

Since then he has been one of our most 
progressive artists, and stands by right in the 



Recollections of an Old Musician 261 

front rank. Though he has played most of 
the great modern compositions, his specialty 
is his fine rendering of Beethoven's works. As 
a teacher he is held in high esteem. Alto- 
gether, he is an earnest, thinking musician, 
who brings to our little musical world new and 
bright ideas. 

He has made a lengthy list of the most 
useful arrangements for the pianoforte from 
various orchestral and other works. 

Arthur Foote, born in Salem, Mass., is an 
American musician of enviable reputation, — 
a first-class pianist and organist, and a com- 
poser of high degree. His musical training 
has all been obtained in this country; from 
Stephen Emery in harmony, B. J. Lang in 
piano and organ, and J. K. Paine in composi- 
tion. But after all, and best of all, he has 
dug the most valuable part of his acquirements 
out of himself, — aus eigener Kraft^ as the 
Germans would say. 

As a composer he has presented us with a 
long list of fine works, including most charm- 
ing songs ; while his larger compositions have 
been played and sung in the best concerts 
throughout the country. And as he is still in 
the prime of life it is to be hoped that he will 
produce many more works from that fine mu- 



262 Recollections of an Old Musician 

sical vein which he so abundantly possesses, — 
a vein of warm, rare musical feeling, aptly 
controlled by musical science. 

Portland, Maine, has the honor of being the 
birthplace of J. K. Paine, who is easily one of 
the foremost American composers of music in 
classic form. His works include organ, cham- 
ber, symphonic, and oratorio music ; and he is 
a practical organist of marked ability. Most 
of his training was received in Germany ; and 
while he was there he composed a mass for 
grand orchestra, solos, and chorus, which was 
produced under his direction in Berlin, and to 
which the press of that city gave unstinted 
praise. Since his return to America in 1861, 
he has proved himself to be a most industrious 
and capable artist. 

So much public praise has been given to him 
and his works that there is no need for me to 
add to it ; it gives me pleasure, nevertheless, 
to express my sincere admiration of his genius. 
Harvard University honored itself and the art 
of music when it appointed Mr. Paine to a 
professorship in its faculty. It was a good 
example which has been followed by other 
seats of learning. 

In approaching the name of my dear son-in- 
law, George William Sumner, so much of sor- 



Recollections of an Old Musician 263 

row at his untimely death fills my heart that I 
am unfitted to say what his memory deserves. 

My acquaintance with Mr. Sumner began 
when I was searching for good pianoforte 
teachers for the National College of Music. 
Inquiries made among the older artists usually 
brought out strong recommendations of "young 
Sumner." He therefore became one of our 
teachers, and it was not long before he mar- 
ried my oldest daughter. He was a fine fellow, 
and when he was taken from us he left a void 
impossible to fill. 

The testimony of history, when it refers to 
the life of a good man, remains a precious leg- 
acy to all who loved the subject. I therefore 
quote from the Boston Transcript of August, 
1890: 

" Mr. George W. Sumner was bom of a musical family 
in Spencer, Mass., in 1848. He early showed his musical 
proclivities, and while still a child displayed enough 
talent to warrant his exhibition in public. His father, 
however, — Mr. William Sumner, for many years a teacher 
and music dealer in Worcester, — took pains to have the 
boy's education properly directed, and to that end placed 
him under the best available instructors, Mr. B. J. Lang 
being the last one. 

**' Mr. Sumner's proficiency as a pianist, organist, and 
teacher was of high character. His appearances as a 
performer of pianoforte concertos in the * Harvard ' and 



264 Recollections of an Old Musician 

the ' Boston Symphony ' Societies, as a pianist in cham- 
ber concerts, or as accompanist at the piano or organ 
with the * Handel and Haydn Society/ the * Cecilia,' the 
* Apollo,' and ' Boylston ' Clubs, were alike creditable 
to the occasion, to his art, and to himself. 

"Mr. Sumner's longest term of service as a church 
organist was in the Arlington Street Church, where for 
eighteen years he had charge of the music, and dis- 
played no little talent in composition ; but these compo- 
sitions were all in the line of hymns or anthems, and few 
were ever published. Two notable pieces are in use in 
all churches, IVAen Winds are Raging and Let your Light 
so Shine. This latter is an alto solo. 

'* In 1879, Mr. Sumner was appointed director of the 
Orpheus Club, of Springfield, Mass. He brought the 
Club to a high rank among male-voice choirs. His mu- 
sical tastes, though refined and exacting, were broad and 
comprehensive. Personally, he was a man of genial 
temperament, unaffected and sincere. 

" He left a widow, the daughter of Mr. Thomas Ryan, 
and a young daughter." 



Mr. John S. Dwight also contributed a no- 
tice in the Boston Transcript^ which testifies 
to the respect Mr. Sumner had inspired among 
his professional brethren : 

" In Memoriam : George William Sumner. — The 
musical tribute paid to the memory of this gifted, ser- 
viceable, generous, and amiable young artist by his pro- 
fessional associates and hosts of friends, at the Music 
Hall on Tuesday afternoon, November 25th, was a 
touching and memorable occasion. The great Hall was 



Recollections of an Old Musician 265 

at least two thirds filled with sympathetic, serious listen- 
ers. Nearly all the leading singers, pianists, teachers, 
composers, and high-class musicians of our city, lent 
their aid most heartily to the carrying out of a signifi- 
cant and worthy programme. The list of participants 
included all these names : 

** Mr. Carl Baermann, Mr. George Chadwick, Miss 
Gertrude Edmands, Mr. Carl Faelten, Mrs. E. C. Fen- 
derson, Mr. Arthur Foote, Miss Gertrude Franklin, Miss 
Elizabeth Hamlin, Mr. Clarence E. Hay, Mr. Anton 
Hekking ('cellist), Mr. Franz Kneisel (concert-master), 
Mr. Gardner S. Lamson, Mr. B. J. Lang, Mr. E. A. 
MacDowell, Mrs. Gertrude Swayne Matthews, Mr. Ivan 
Morawski, Mr. Ethelbert Nevin, Mr. Arthur Nikisch 
(symphony conductor), Mr. George J. Parker, Mr. Ernst 
Perabo, Mr. Carl Pfluger, Mr. Joshua Phippen, Miss 
Louise Rollwagen, Mr. J. H. Ricketson, Mr. Sullivan 
A. Sargent, Mrs. J. E. Tippett, Mr. H. G. Tucker, Mrs. 
Jennie Patrick Walker, Mr. B. L. Whelpley, Miss Har- 
riet Whiting, Mr. Arthur Whiting, Mr. William J. 
Winch, Mr. Carl Zerrahn (oratorio director)." 

Of this concert the Boston Herald said : 

" The most remarkable programme arranged in recent 
years was prepared for the concert in memory of George 
William Sumner, whose recent death deprived the Ar- 
lington Street Church of its accomplished musical 
director, and left a vacancy in a wide circle of friends 
that will not soon be forgotten." 



CHAPTER XXXI 

WHILE the Civil War was going on, the 
government was already planning 
soldiers' homes for the battered and crippled 
men left in its terrible wake. The first Home 
was more like a hospital for invalids than it was 
strictly a Home, and was established in the 
suburbs of Milwaukee. 

The Quintette Club being in that city, I hap- 
pened to meet Ex-Governor Smith of New 
Hampshire, with whom I had a slight acquaint- 
ance ; and who told me that he and the other 
commissioners appointed by the government to 
build and look after these Homes, had arranged 
to visit the new buildings on the following mom- 
i^gf go through with the formality of accept- 
ance, and have the first flag-raising. He invited 
me to bring our club, and contribute a little 
music for the occasion, which we gladly agreed 
to do. 

Next morning about six to eight carriage 
loads of citizens, with the commissioners and 
our party, started for the Home, where the 

266 



Recollections of an Old Musician 267 

ceremony was to take place at precisely twelve 
o'clock. It was a very unpropitious morning ; 
a furious gale was " blowing great guns," and 
it was difficult to face it and stand upright. 
The little company of war-scarred veterans in 
the Home, perhaps a hundred in number, were 
drawn up in line to receive us, — ^many of them 
with only one leg or one arm, or on crutches, 
truly a saddening sight. 

The formal acceptance of the building by the 
commissioners took place in the house ; then 
the invited guests assembled near the flagstaff. 
Music was out of the question ; our nice little 
plans for that were sadly frustrated by ^Eolus 
the god of winds. I determined, nevertheless, 
not to let that flag go up without some music. 
I took my clarinet to the foot of the flagstaff, 
and when " Old Glory " was hauled up I played 
as lustily as I could the Star Spangled Banner. 
At the conclusion, all present gave three 
cheers. It was a short ceremony, and we were 
glad to get under shelter once more. 

Six or eight years ago, our club gave a concert 
in the Home, which is now a truly wonderful 
institution, one of which any nation may justly 
be proud. Indeed the present Home is quite 
a little city in itself ; with a charming opera 
house, which will hold about one thousand 



268 Recollections of an Old Musician 

persons and has its own regular orchestra* 
The Home is often visited by musical and 
dramatic companies. Everything of a nature 
to cheer up the old veterans is freely en- 
couraged. 

While performing on the evening in question, 
my mind was busy. I could not forget that I 
was the son of an old soldier, my father having 
served for thirty-three years. One of my 
brothers also served under the British flag and 
lies buried in India. My youngest brother 
served all through the Civil War in the Union 
army, and had a good record as Captain in the 
ist N. Y. Mounted Rifles. He did not long 
survive his campaigning. 

When I looked over the rows of white-headed 
men, I thought of the peculiar bond of sym- 
pathy which must exist among them. Many 
were seated alongside of the very comrades 
who had stood shoulder to shoulder with them 
in the hour of supreme danger, when each 
minute might bring the billet for eternal sepa- 
ration. Amid the tumult of action, when smoke 
and flame, shot and shell, make earth to disap- 
pear and a hell to take its place, the elbow 
touch alone gives the signal, " Still alive." In 
such moments a fellowship is formed which has 
no counterpart among men's associations. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 269 

I took occasion between the parts of the 
concert to address the audience and recall the 
part we had played, over thirty years before, 
at the dedication and flag-raising : and I noticed 
that my remarks raised quite a buzz in various 
parts of the hall. Afterwards I learned that 
there was a number of men still in the 
Home who corroborated my story. Indeed 
the episode was one not easily forgotten. The 
furious gale, the crippled men clinging to and 
supporting each other when they took off their 
hats to cheer the upgoing flag, for which they 
had fought, made a scene worthy the pencil of 
an artist. 

Many years ago we gave a first concert in a 
certain small town in Iowa. In the front seats 
of the concert room sat a good, hearty-looking 
German with his ** frau " and children, all of 
whom had elated, interested faces. Evidently 
national pride was stirred in their hearts by the 
names of the performers ; and it found vent 
and expression at the end of the first piece, 
when the German rose to his feet and shouted 
out, " Bully for the Dutch ! " 

Afterwards we were informed that this good 
honest German had been buzzing round town, 
days in advance of the concert, telling his 



270 Recollections of an Old Musician 

American friends, ** Now you will something 
hear like music" After the concert we were 
right royally entertained by our enthusiastic 
friend, who claimed that all musicians were 
good Germans. 



CHAPTER XXXII 

THANKFULLY I reach the last chapter 
of " An Old Musician's Recollections " — 
and will end them by relating a pleasant ex- 
perience I had, some eight or ten years ago, 
on my first visit to Berlin. 

Desiring to pay my respects to the great 
master-violinist, Joachim, I called at his house 
and sent up my card. I was at once received 
and Mr. Joachim gave me a cordial greet- 
ing, and put me at ease by saying, " You are 
one of us. I know all that you and your club 
have been doing ; I welcome you to Berlin." 
The speech was uttered in good square Amer- 
ican, and in a warm, genial tone of voice. 

Having made as long a call as I dared to 
make on a busy man, I rose to leave, saying : 
" Mr. Joachim, I have never had the pleasure 
of hearing you play, and I very much fear that 
I never shall, for I understand that you don't 
like ocean travel. My only chance to hear you 
may be at the present moment." 

" I would play with great pleasure " he re- 

271 



272 Recollections of an Old Musician 

plied, " but I have an appointment at the High 
School for Music ; perhaps you would like to 
go over therewith me"; adding, "Would you 
not like to hear our quartette play ? " 

My delight at the possibility of such a 
pleasure must have shown itself in my face, 
as he promptly arranged a meeting for the 
next morning ; and it was a most enjoyable, 
musical, and social matitUe bet yoachtm. 
The four gentlemen of his quartette certainly 
did me great honor when they devoted a 
morning to my pleasure, simply because I 
was a brother artist from America They 
played the F-minor No. lo Quartette by 
Beethoven, and a new quartette in manuscript 
by D' Albert. Joachim played violin primo ; 
D'Ahna, secundo ; Wirt, viola ; Hausemann, 
violoncello. 

All four of them were professors in the High 
School, Joachim being the general director and 
chief of the institution. The school is mainly 
supported by the government, and it is chiefly 
for orchestral instruments, though piano and 
singing are taught It is almost exclusively 
attended by those who are preparing for pro- 
fessional life. Pupils are rigorously examined, 
and none can enter without good qualifica- 
tions. 



Recollections of an Old Musician 2 73 

I heard the pupils play symphonies and 
difficult concert overtures, — ^also cantatas with 
solo singing and chorus. Perhaps one fourth 
of the *' string" performers were young ladies, 
and several were Americans whom I knew ; 
Miss Geraldine Morgan, now in New York, 
was at the first desk of violins, and Miss Lucy 
Campbell played the violoncello. There was 
also a number of young men from America. 
Among them was a modest young man from 
Louisville, just entered He told me he had 
been incited to study the violin by hearing our 
Quintette Club, and hoped it would be his 
good fortune some day to play with us. Some 
seasons ago, I needed a first violin for the 
Club, and the modest boy, who had developed 
into a brilliant player, became for a season my 
concert-master, — Mr. Sol Marcosson. 

Now, after fifty-four years of service, — forty- 
nine of them with the Quintette Club, — rarely 
free from care and responsibility, — I think I 
can honestly say that I have tried to do my 
share of musical duty. There have been num- 
berless times when much fortitude was needed' 
to continue working, for seasons were bad and 
incomes small. But there was a good spirit 
which said to me, ** Continue to do the work 



274 Recollections of an Old Musician 

for which you are best fitted, and your reward 
will come later." 

I have often felt a grest satisfaction welling 
up within me — b, something which caused me to 
feel perfectly happy — ^when the playing of the 
Club was quite " up to the mark " ; that was for 
me a wonderfully sustaining power. 

I began life in America when the art of 
music was about in accordance with my age, — 
that of a youth. The art has grown, will con- 
tinue to grow, and will become more and more 
of a delight to all our people. There will be 
no decadence. 

To the old friends who have followed me in 
this retrospection, I venture to express the 
hope that I may have a place in their good 
memory to the end of their days. For my 
unknown readers, — perhaps a very small con- 
tingent, — I trust that they will find sometiiing 
of interest or value to repay them for the time 
given to " An Old Musician's Recollections." 

Thomas Ryan. 

FINIS 



y w .' 



