This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  library  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 
to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 
to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 
are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 
publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 

We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at  http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


( 


The  Autobiography  and  Correspondence 
of  Mary  Granville,  Mrs.  Delany 


■BraBiiiyMimBiBai««iHi 


jmni    i' 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


tSftiMira^.  BOSTOtl 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


BUC'KLAND  MANOR   HOl'SE. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


v-.Z'- ,  :K',\r.  . 


/^\  d 


:'i1    l^r       '^jI  'v-; 


i^¥r-;L 


L  y.:jr'  Y^  uTi  It 


-'t 


^I  :Jvi!i    !^^^:  !! 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


T  H  K 


AUTOBIOGUPHY 
AND   CORRESPONDENCE 

OF 

MARY  GRANVILLE, 


WITH  INTERESTING  REMINISCENCES  OF 


MRS.  pELANY; 

NTERESTING  REMINISCE 

KING  GEORGE  THE  THIRD  AND  QUEEN  CHARLOTTE. 

U  D I T  E  D 
BY  THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE 

I.  A  D  Y     L  LA  NOVEK, 

THREE  VOLUMES, 
VOL.  IL 


LONDON: 
IMCIIAKD  BENTLEY,  NEW   Bl'iiLlNiiTON  STREET, 
l^ublUticr  in  <drtltnari;  to  %ri-  Alairiitg. 
1861. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


IX>NDO>'.  PKIKTRO  BT   W.  CLOWES  AKD  SONS,  STAMFOBD  6TRKRT. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


THE 


LIFE   AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


OF 


MARY    GRANVILLE. 

(BfBS.  DELANY.) 


Mn.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  OatK  CiMingwood^  in  New  Bond  Street^  next  door  to 

the  Coke}  ,      . 

Friday  morning. 

I  Q,in  much  obliged  to  my  dear  Miss  CoUingwood  for 
both  her  letters ;  but  let  me  tell  you,  you  exult  too  soon, 
Itannot  yet  ovm  my  wager  lost.^  Designing  and  acting 
are  two  things,  but  if  I  do  lose  it,  I  will  pay  it  honestly, 
and  contrive  a  way  for  you  to  receive  it  on  the  spot  it 
was  lost.  I  have  done  a  thousand  things  since  I  saw 
you,  and  well  I  may  (for  it  is  a  thousand  years)  modestly 
speaking.  I  was  in  London  for  twenty  minutes,  but  it 
bemg  devotion-time  I  would  not  attempt  calling  on  you. 
I  have  had  some  company  with  me ;  been  at  Isleworth, 
Twickenham,  Whitton,  Hounslow ;  seen  Mr.  Wingfield, 


*  "  (kkeJ*  This  word  is  meant  for  the  Cock^  but  is  spelt  in  various  ways  in 
different  letters. 

'  The  **  Wager  **  probably  was  that  Miss  Collingwood  instead  of  going  into 
a  convent  would  be  married  before  the  " Strawberry  season**  was  over. 

VOL.  II.  B 


i 


Digitized  by 


Google 


2  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

his  lady,  and  Mr.  Pope's  gardens;  almost  finished  a 
history  piece  and  a  portrait ;  worked  hard  at  my  grotto, 
(undone  as  much  as  I  have  done,)  am  to  dine  to-day  at 
Osterley,  §'  Francis  Child's,  and  will  do  my  utmost  to 
smite  the  old  knight.  But  tell  me  who  your  rapturous 
lord  was  ?  there  is  but  one  in  the  world  I  could  have 
su^ected  for  such  a  speech,  and  he  is  over  the  hills  and 
far'  away!  My  brother  is  returned  from  Tunbridge. 
Yesterday  he  and  the. Wingfields  dined  with  me;  to- 
morrow I  shal>  have  a  house  full.  Expect  a  challenge  for 
some  day  next  week,  and  if  you  wish  to  see  me  as  much 
as  I  wish  to  see  you,  my  scheme  will  succeed.  I  am 
Mrs.  CoUingwood's  humble  servant,  and  dear  Colly's 

Most  faithfiil 

M.  Pen. 

Don't  think  me  saucy ;  this  is  a  hasty  dab,  but  the 
coach  waits. 

Lysons  says  that  Osterley  Souse  "  was  rebuilt  by  Sir  Thomas 
Gresham,  and  was  completed  iu  1577.  In  the  year  1578  Queen 
Elizabeth  visited  Osterley,  where  Sir  Thomas  Gresham  entertained 
her  in  a  very  magnificent  manner.  Lord  Chief  Justice  Coke 
inhabited  it  after  Lady  Gresham's  death,  and.  George  Eairl  of  Des- 
mond and  his  Countess  resided  at  Osterley  many  years.  Sir 
Williaitn  Waller;  the  Parliamentary  general,  lived  tliere  from  1657  - 
to  his  death  in  1668. 

*'  In  the  early  part  of  the  18th  century,  Osterley  became  the  pro- 
perty of  Sir  Francis  Child,  a  citizen .  of  great  opulence  arid  emi- 
nence. He  was  Lord  Mayor  of  Lqjidon  in  1699,  as  was  his  son. 
Sir  Francis,  in  173-2.  The  house  was  again  rebuilt  by  Francis. 
Child,  Esq.,  about  1760;  the  ancient  groimd-plan  was,  for  the 
most  part,  preserved,  and  the  turrets  at  the  comers  remain,  having 
been  newly  cased :  the  inside  was  fitted  up  with  taste  and  mag- 
nificence, and  was  finished  by  Robert  CKild,^  who  ^succeeded  his 


Digitized  by 


(loo^(L 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  3 

biother  Francis,  In  1763 ;  the  staircase  is  ornamented  with  a  fine 
painting  by  Rubens,  of  the  apotheosis  of  William  I.  Prince  of 
Orange,  brought  irom  Holland  by  Sir  Francis  Child.  The  most 
remarkable  rooms  are  a  noble  gallery,  containing  a  good  collection 
of  pictures  by  the  old  masters,  and  some  valuable  portraits ;  the 
state  bedroom,  very  magnificently  fiimished ;  and  a  drawing-room 
hung  with  beautifiil  tapestry,  procured  from  the  Gobelins  manu- 
factory in  1775;  the  library  contains  a  large  and  valuable  col- 
lection of  books.  In  the  garden  was  a  menagerie  containing  a  large 
collection  of  rare  birds." 

Walpole  says,  in  1773  :  "  On  Friday  we  went  to  see — oh,  the 
palace  of  palaces  I-^and  yet  a  palace  sans  croum^  sans  coronet ; 
but  such  expense  I  such  taste  I  such  profusion !  and  yet  half  an 
acre  produces  all  the  rents  that  fiimish  such  magnificence.  It  is 
a  jaghire  got  without  a  crime ;  in  short,  a  shop  is  the  estate,  and 
Osterley  Park  is  the  spot.  The  old  house  I  have  often  seen, 
which  was  built  by  Sir  Thomas  Gresham ;  but  it  is  so  improved 
and  enriched,  that  all  the  Percies  and  Seymours  of  Sion  must  die 
of  envy;  there  is  a  double  portico  that  fills  the  space  between 
the  towers  in  fix)nt^  and  is  as  noble  as  the  Propyleum  of  Athens. 
There  is  a  hall,  library,  breakfast-room,  eating-room,  all  chefa- 
d'oBuvre  of  Adam;  a  gallery  one  hundred-and-thirty  feet  long, 
and  a  drawing-room  worthy  of  Eve  before  the  Fall.  Mrs.  Child's 
dressing-room  is  full  of  pictures,  gold  filigree,  china  and  japan. 
So  is  all  the  house ;  the  chairs  are  taken  from  antique  lyres,  and 
make  charming  harm(»iy;  there  are  Salvators,  Gaspar  Poussiifi, 
and  to  a  beautiful  staircase,  a  ceiling  by  Bubens ;  not  to  mention 
a  kUch&firgarden  that  costs  1400Z.  a  year,  a  menagerie  full  of  birds 
that  come  from  a  thousand  islands  which  Mr.  Banks  has  not  dis^ 
covered ;  and  then,  in  the  drawing-room  I  mentioned,  there  are 
door-cases,  and  a  crimson  and  gold  fiieze,  that  I  believe  were  bor- 
rowed from  the  Palace  of  the  Sun,  and  then  the  park  is  the 
ugliest  spot  of  ground  in  the  universe,  and  so  I  returned  com- 
forted to  Strawberry !  You  shall  see  these  wonders  the  first  time 
you  come  to  Twickenham," 


b2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranviUe,. 

Northend,  10  Oct.,  1737. 

I  dedicate  this  hour  to  tell  you  how  well  everything 
here  looks,  from  the  generous  lord  of  the  place  down  to 
cross  squawling  Patch,  the  thing  in  the  house  least  in  my 
favour.  We  came  on  Saturday  as  you  know,  if  you  are 
with  Sally ;  the  day  proved  so  wet,  that  I  could  only 
take  one  walk  round  the  garden ;  but  having  Sir  John 
Stanley  to  converse  with,  you'll  say  I  had  not  much  rea- 
son to  complain  of  my  confinement.  Yesterday  the 
weather  was  very  agreeable — a  soft  air  and  no  rain ;  I 
walked  almost  two  hours  without  resting.  The  trees  and 
grass  were  so  green,  and  the  flowers  so  sweet,  that  I  was, 
deceived  for  some  time,  and  took  it  for  spring;  my 
happy  imagination  led  me  to  a  train  of  delights,  the 
chief  of  which  was  the  hopes  of  seing  my  dearest  sister 
in  a  month  or  two !  I  walked  from  one  flower-plot  to 
another,  till  I  composed  a  nosegay  of  anemonies,  carna- 
tions, roses,  honeysuckles,  sweet  williams,  jessamine, 
sweet  briar,  and  myrtle,  full  of  pleasing  reflections,  till 
unluckily  I  turned  down  the  lime  walk,  where  the 
fluttering  of  the  brown  leaves  about  my  ears,  and  the 
feuille-mort  carpet  under  my  feet,  led  me  back  to  the 
latter  end  of  October,  destroyed  every  pleasing  thought, 
and  left  me  six  months  further  from  you  than  I  was  the 
moment  before.     What  a  transition ! 

I  must  talk  to  you  now  of  the  only  person  who  can 
make  up  in  any  degree  that  change  to  me — our  dear 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  5 

Sir  John :  he  looks  and  is  as  well  as  you  and  I  can  wish 
him  to  be,  and  so  entertaining  that  I  am  sony  when  ten 
o'clock  comes,  the  hour  we  walk  to  our  chambers.  He 
has  given  me  for  you  nine  red  and  white  cambric  hand- 
kerchiefs, which  I  will  send  you  when  you  please,  they 
are  made  up;  he  has  given  me  a  pair  of  pretty  white 
china  babies  for  my  cupboard,  and  a  bowl  for  a  ladle  in 
china,  in  the  shape  of  an  Indian  leaf. 

I  find  no  considerable  alteration  in  Northend,  some 
trees  have  danced,  and  shelves  filled  with  books  are  put 
up  in  the  closet  within  the  caUco  room.  We  have 
talked  about  my  brother's  building,  but  nothing  can 
be  determined  till  we  know  more  particularly  the  dimen- 
sions of  the  ground  where  it  is  to  be  placed.  Sir  John 
approves  very  well  of  the  thatched  temple;  Dapper  is 
here,  and  happy  to  meet  with  so  many  playfellows. 
To-morrow  I  return  to  Fairy  Castle,  and  must  think  of 
making  visits.  Leonora  has  taken  a  little  house  in 
Audley  Street  unfurnished;  I  don't  understand  how 
the  interest  of  £4000  will  afibrd  that,  and  maintain 
two  maids  and  a  man;  she  must  have  good  friends 
to  help,  and  I  believe  will.  Your  last  dear  letter  I 
received  the  night  before  I  came  here — I  was  then  at 
Lady  Sunderland's ;  Lady  Prances  Eliot  ^  was  there,  who 
enquired  afber  you,  and  I  made  your  compliments  as 
due. 

Miss  Sutton  is  grown  very  tall  and  thin,  and  looks 
pale,  not  having  quite  recovered  the  disorder  she  had 
before  I  came  to  town.   She  is  an  agreeable  girl,  and  has 


'  Lady  Frances  Nassan  d'Anverquerque,  eldest  daughter  of  the  1st  Earl  of 
Grantham,  married  in  June,  1737,  to  Captain  Elliot,  was  niece  to  the  Lady 
Frances  Nassau  before  mentioned,  who  married  the  Earl  of  Bellamont. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


8  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

into  GHoncestershire,  as  I  know  it  prevented  you  a 
parting,  which  is  always  disagreable  to  you.  We  are  in 
hopes  your  next  expedition  will  be  to  visit  your  friends 
in  this  part  of  the  world. 

According  to  your  desire,  I  have  enquired  after  our 
"  new  star  of  righteousness  ,•"  he  does  deserve  in  eveiy 
particular  the  character  you  give  of  him.  His  name 
is  Thorold,  he  has  a  very  plentiM  fortune  —  three 
thousand  a  year  at  present,  and  will  have  ten  after  his 
father's  death,  a  married  man  and  five  children.  He 
preaches  twice  a  week,  Monday  and  Fridays,  reads  a 
chapter  out  of  the  Bible,  and  then  explains  every  verse 
of  it.  He  has  got  a  young  gentleman  from  Orford  to 
live  with  him,  who  follows  his  example :  they  leave 
this  country  very  soon,  and  don  t  return  hither  till 
spring.  The  Mr.  Murray  ^  Lady  Betty  Finch  has  married 
is  the  same  Pope  celebrates,  and  I  believe  he  is  by  every- 
body that  knows  him  well  spoken  of;  I  hear  there  is 
to  be  wo  finery  at  the  Birthday,  by  his  Majesty's  desire. 
Princess  Amelia  has  a  stuff  of  30  shillings  a  yard, 
without  either  gold  or  silver;  this  news  I  had  from 
Lady  Hertford.  Mentioning  her,  puts  me  in  mind  of  a 
love-tale  Lady  Pomfret  has  wrote  her  word  of  from 
Paris,  which  I  must  tell  you;  I  did  not  think  such 
a  story  could  be  met  with  but  in  a  romance,  but  this 
is  really  fact,  and  happened  very  lately. 

'  William  Murray,  third  son  of  David,  5th  Viscount  Stonnont,  bom  at 
Scone,  March  2, 1705.  Called  to  the  English  Bar  in  1730.  Was  Solicitor- 
General  in  1742,  and  Attorney-General  in  1754,  and  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench,  Nov.  8,  1756;  be  was  created  Earl  of  Mansfield, 
Oct.  19, 1776,  and  married,  in  1738,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Daniel,  Earl  of 
Winchelsea  and  Nottingham.  Died,  a.  ;?.,  March  20,  1793.  The  earldom 
devolved  on  his  nephew,  Yisoount  Stormont. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  9 

Mr.  Middleton,  a  young  gentleman  of  no  fortune, 
and  younger  brother  to  the  Irish  Lord  Midleton,  went 
into  France,  where  he  got  into  the  French  army.  The 
man  of  the  house  where  he  boarded  had  an  extremely 
handsome  daughter,  with  whom  Mr.  Middleton  was  very 
mnch  enamoured,  and  made  his  addresses  to  her:  her 
father  perceived  it,  and  knowing  his  daughter  to  be 
much  inferiour  to  the  young  gentleman,  told  him  he 
found  he  did  his  daughter  the  honour  to  make  his  ad- 
dresses to  her,  but  as  her  birth  was  much  too  low  to  be 
his  wife,  and  much  above  being  his  mistress,  he  begged 
him  not  to  persevere  in  his  addresses  to  her,  for  it 
might  prove  a  disadvantage  to  them  both,  and  in 
particular  to  his  daughter,  who  had  nothing  but  her 
character  to  depend  on.  The  young  gentleman  replied 
that  he  loved  his  daughter  too  well  to  have  a  thought 
of  her  but  what  was  honourable,  and  he  should  be  a 
most  miserable  man  if  he  would  not  consent  to  their 
having  a  contract  of  marriage  pass  between  them.  The 
father  most  honourably  endeavoured  as  much  as  possible 
to  persuade  him  to  the  contrary,  but  all  to  no  purpose. 
At  last  the  contract  was  drawn ;  but  unluckily  for  the 
lovers,  the  young  man  was  obliged  to  go  to  Paris, 
where  he  met  with  his  general,  a  Lord  Clair,  and  distant 
relation  of  his  (a  very  officious  person,  as  you  U  find 
by  the  end  of  my  story).  He  was  informed  of  this  affair, 
and  thought  himself  obliged  to  send  post-haste  to  ac- 
quaint all  Mr.  Middleton's  relations  of  his  amour,  which 
alarmed  them  very  much;  upon  which  they  wrote  to 
him  letters  of  advice,  endeavouring  if  possible  to  demon- 
state  to  him  how  disadvantageous  a  match  it  would  be 
to  him  to  marry  a  woman  without  either  birth  or  fortune, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


10  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  if  he  really  and  tndy  loved  her  he  would  not  persist 
in  his  resolution,  for  witii  his  narrow  fortune  they  could 
have  no  view  of  happiness ;  and  that  as  for  his  friends 
and  relations,  they  were  determined^  if  he  persisted,  never 
to  have  anything  to  say  to  him,  and  his  wisest  way  of  pro- 
ceeding would  be  to  set  the  young  woman  at  liberty,  by 
desiring  the  contract  to  be  retiumed.  At  last  they  pre- 
vailed with  him  to  write  to  her.  In  his  letter  he  told 
her  he  should  never  love  any  woman  except  herself,  but 
that  he  was  so  unhappy  as  not  to  have  a  fortune  which 
could  any  ways  contribute  to  their  happiness,  therefore 
would  be  miserable  himself  (as  he  must  be  without  her) 
rather  than  make  her  in  the  least  unhappy,  and  de- 
sired to  set  her  free  by  begging  she  would  return  him 
the  contract.  Her  answer  was, — she  willingly  granted 
his  request,  and  never  should  have  consented  to  the  con- 
tract had  it  not  been  to  have  satisfied  him  for  the  pre- 
sent, knowing  how  improper  a  match  it  was  for  him ;  as 
for  her  affections,  they  were  not  in  her  power  to  change, 
being  too  strongly  fixed  in  his  favour,  but  she  wished  him 
all  happiness  this  world  could  afford.  The  poor  young 
woman  took  this  so  much  to  heart  that  she  fell  into  a 
consumption  and  died  within  the  twelvemonth.  Mr. 
Middleton,  who  was  all  life  and  spirit,  and  fond  of  the 
gaieties  of  the  world,  forsook  them  all  upon  hearing  of 
this  news,  was  seized  with  a  fever,  and  died  in  a  few 
days! 

After  having  told  my  dear  cousin  so  long  a  history 
and  so  extraordinary  one,  I  believe  she  would  wish  me 
to  conclude,  but  I  must  add  my  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Granville  and  Madam  Pen ;  my  sisters  are  very  much 
humble  servants  to  you  all.     The  Duchess  of  Portland 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  11 

breakfasted  here . yesterday  morning:  we  talked  of  our 
friends  at  Gloucester,  and  you  are  often  thought  of  by, 
dear  Miss  Granville, 

Your  most  affectionate  and  faithfiil 

G.  Geanville. 

Mrs,  Kingdom  is  not  yet  gone  to  Bath ;  I  believe  she 
don't  think  of  going  till  Xtmas,  being,  thank  God, 
much  better  in  health. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Lady  Throckmorton,^ 

Glocester,  8  Nov.  1738. 

I  shall  make  no  apology  to  dear  Lady  Throck.  for 
leaving  her  so  long  in  repose.  Report  informs  me  you 
will  soon  be  under  a  confinement  that  will  make  letters 
for  some  time  very  improper  visiters,  and  I  am  willing, 
you  should  know  that  my  best  wishes  attend  you  on  this 
occasion,  as  they  have  done  on  all  others.  Tour  Ladyship's 
last  letter  was  a  great  joy  to  me ;  I  began  to  fear  you 
had  cast  me  off,  and  was  just  upon  the  brink  of  reproach- 
mg  Sir  Eobert  as  the  cause  of  my  unhappiness  and  your 
infidelity !  These  thoughts  I  confess  perplexed  me  greatly : 
when  I  grew  calmer  and  considered  how  much  reason  you 
had  to  like  one  another,  I  was  not  surprized  you  should 
not  be  permitted  to  bestow  your  time  elsewhere,  or  that 
you  should  grow  indifferent  to  the  rest  of  your  friends. 
Possessed  of  one  you  rate  so  highly,  I  was  not  a  little 
pleased  to  find  after  aU  my 'reasonings  I  was  no  outcast, 
but  still  favoured  with  your  remembrance  and  friendship ; 


'  Miss  Catherine  Ck)lliDgwood. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


12  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  you  must  change  wonderfiiUy,  when  I  can  be  negli- 
gent of  a  distinction  I  wish  so  much  to  preserve.  Glou- 
cester affords  so  Kttle  variety,  that  I  can  send  you  no  ac- 
counts from  hence  worthy  your  notice ;  we  have  as- 
semblies once  a  week,  such  as  they  are,  and  we  go  because 
we  would  not  be  thought  churlish.  They  are  made  up  of 
an  odd  mixture,  and  if  my  sister  and  myself  loved  puUing 
people  to  pieces,  we  should  find  material  enough,  to 
exercise  our  wits  upon — at  least  excellent  food  for  ill 
nature. 

You  have  left  Bath  to  the  possession  of  their  Eoyal 
Highnesses,  who  make  no  small  racket*  As  you  have  no 
doubt  accounts  from  the  fountain-head  of  aU  that  passes, 
I  will  not  trouble  you  with  my  second-hand  news.  It 
is  impossible  to  take  Weston  in  the  way  to  Bulstrode, 
without  altering  the  geography  of  the  country — an  un- 
dertaking by  no  means  suited  to  my  genius.  "lis  well 
at  this  time  your  Ladyship  is  out  of  my  way,  for  I  might 
call  on  you  at  an  improper  time,  and  I  wish  that  may 
not  be  my  brother's  case  :  he  is  still  at  Calwich,  but  pro- 
poses going  to  town  some  time  this  month,  and  I  know 
promises  himself  great  pleasure  in  paying  his  respects  to 
the  happy  pair,  but  if  a  visit  this  month  should  prove 
mal-a-propos,  pray  let  me  give  him  notice.  This  leads  me 
to  beg  some  account  from  any  friendly  or  charitable  hand 
as  soon  as  you  are  brought  to  bed :  my  sister  joins  ear- 
nestly in  the  petition  with  me,  for  as  we  both  sincerely 
love  you,  you  may  imagine  how  necessary  it  is  we 
should  have  that  satisfactioii ;  perhaps  I  may  at  that 
time  be  at  Bulstrode,  for  I  go  the  last  week  of  this  month  ,- 
my  sister  therefore  desires,  she  may  particularly  be  in- 
formed.   Her  most  faithful  and  kind  service  attends  you 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  13 

and  Sir  Eobert.     I  almost  had  forgot  to  thank  you  for 
delivering  my  letter  to   Mr.  Hook ;   I  had  an  answer 
from  him,  and  I  dropt  there,  for  fear  my  letters  might 
prove  as  bad  a  persecution  to  him  as  an  easterly  wind. 
I  was  charmed  with  the   life  you  lead  at  Holt,  and 
what  pleased  me  most  in  it  was  the  sympathy  there 
was  between  your  way  of  spending  your  time  and  ours 
at  Calwich,  where  we  enjoyed  every  rural  delight.     I  am 
impatient  to  be  acquainted  with  Miss  Birch — my  sister 
must  bring  that  about   as  soon  as  she  comes  to  town. 
She  stays  with  my  mother  till  spring,  but  I  hope  you  will 
pave  the  way  for  me,  and  if  that  ingenious  lady  is  so 
happy  as  to  be  with  you  now,  assure  her  of  the  great 
desire  I  have  of  being  introduced  to  her.     There  is  no 
end  of  my  prating  to  you,  my  dear  lady  Throck.!   When 
shall  we  meet  ?  Is  London  so  detestable  and  so  miserable 
as  never  to  receive  your  footsteps  ?     Wherever  you  are, 
depend  upon  the  affectionate  wishes  of 

Tour  most  faithful 

M.  Pendarves. 


Mr9.  Pendarve»  to  Mrs.  Ann  ChunviUe, 

Bulstrode,  12  Dec.,  1738. 

I  think  you  idle  folks  at  Gloucester  that  have  nothing 
to  do  but  to  go  to  church  and  to  assemblies,  might  compose 
a  romance,  and  lay  the  principal  scene  at  Bulstrode.  I 
rejoice  at  your  coming  off  so  well  after  your  raking ;  since 
it  agreed  with  you,  I  advise  a  repetition.  I  own  if 
dancing  was  added  to  our  entertainments  here  I  should 
be  glad,  but  we  are  not  numerous  enough!  The 
character  you  give  me  of  the  Inferencer  has  raised  my 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

esteem  of  him ;  I  wish  he  coald  meet  with  friends  that 
would  be  of  real  use  to  him,  but  so  singular  a  way  of 
thinking  in  an  attorney  will  hardly  prove  a  profitable  one. 
My  mama  is  very  hind  in  inviting  Mrs.  Elstob/  I 
almost  fancy  she  will  not  accept  of  it,  because  of  having 
been  there  in  a  disguised  way ;  the  Duchess  has  now 
a  thousand  fears,  least  my  Lord  and  Lady  Oxford  should 
have  any  objections  against  taking  her,  but  I  hope  they 
will  all  prove  false ;  she  can't  very  conveniently  take  her 
till  next  summer,  that  she  comes  to  Bulstrode  (that  will 
be  about  six  months  hence),  because  in  town  they  have 
not  at  present  any  convenient  room  for  her.  Mrs. 
Elstob  seems,  out  of  modesty  and  diffidence  of  herself,  to 
decline  coming,  but  it  would  be  most  imprudent  for  her 
to  refiise  such  an  oflTer,  when  no  fatigue  will  be  imposed 
upon  her,  but  all  imaginable  care  will  be  taken  of  her. 
I  own  I  long  to  have  you  see  her,  that  I  may  really 
know  what  sort  of  woman  she  is.  My  Lord  Oxford 
objects  to  her  not  speaking  French,  but  the  Duchess 
answers  she  shall  have  a  master  for  that,  or  a  maid  to 
talk,  and  all  she  requires  and  hopes  of  Mrs.  Elsfcob  is 
to  instruct  her  children  in  the  principles  of  religion  and 
virtue,  to  teach  them  to  speak,  read,  and  understand 
English  well,  to  cultivate  their  minds  as  far  as  their  capa- 
city will  allow,  and  to  keep  them  company  in  the  house, 


*  "After the  decease  of  Queen  Caroline  Mrs.  Elstob  was  again  brought  into 
difficulties,  and  though  mistress  of  eight  languages  besides  her  own,  was  obliged 
to  seek  for  employment  as  a  preceptress  of  children ;  but  she  might 
be  considered  as  having  been  very  fortunate  in  the  situation  wbich  she 
obtained  in  this  capacity,  as  in  1739  she  was  taken  into  the  family  of  tbe 
Duchess  of  Portland,  where  she  continued  till  her  death,  which'  happened 
on  May  30,  1756,  when  she  was  buried  at  St.  Margaret's,  Westminster." — 
Biographia  Britannica, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  15 

and  when  her  strength  and  health  will  permit  to  take  the 
air  with  them.  All  this  surely  she  is  well  qualified  to  do, 
and  it  would  be  a  sincere  joy  to  me  to  have  our  worthy 
Duchess  possestof  so  valuable  a  person  ;  but  don't  speak 
of  her  coining  here  till  'tis  more  confirmed. 

I  made  your  compliments  in  your  own  words  at  break- 
fast yesterday  morning,  every  one  was  pleased  with  your 
obliging  compliments,  and  volleys  have  been  shot  off 
in  return  this  afternoon,  when  I  said  I  was  coming  to  my 
room  to  write  to  you.    This  morning  I  had  a  letter  from 
Sally,  who  is  quite  dispirited  at  her  disappointment  of 
not  spending  the  Xtmas  holidays ;  I  think  it  would  have 
been  cruel  to  let  her,  though  she  was  hardy  enough  to 
venture ;  but  she  has  now  turned  her  thoughts  another 
way,  and  perplexed  me  extremely — she  proposes  to  me 
coming  to  spend  a  week  with  me  at  Bulstrode,  to  intro- 
duce her  to  the  Duchess !   Alas !  how  wild  is  imagina- 
tion when  let  loose,  and  not  trimmed  by  a  little  knowledge 
of  the  world  f    She  has  worked  herself  up  to  a  belief 
that  it  may  be  done  easily,  and  is  so  eager,  that  if  I  did 
not  know  she  always  judges  kindly  of  our  actions,  I 
should  fear  the  refiising  her  would  make  an  eternal  breach, 
1  have  written  her  plainly  tJie  impossibility  of  putting  such 
a  scheme  in  practice,  and  hope  she  will  be  convinced  of 
her  error  without  taking  anything  ill  of  me,  for  surely 
I  always  mean  her  well !     Tou  know  from  the  Duchess 
and  our  cousins  of  my  having  been  at  Old  Windsor. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


16  LIFE  AND  OORRBSPONDENCB 

From  Mrs.  Elstob  to  Mrs  Ann  OranviUe^  in  Gloucester, 

Bath,  Dec.  H,  1738. 

Dear  Madam, 

The  favour  of  your  most  charming  letter  I  re- 
ceived with  the  greatest  joy  and  pleasure  imaginable, 
It  gives  me  both  courage  and  assurance  to  address  myself 
to  you,  as  you  there  command  me,  with  the  freedom  of 
an  old  friend.  I  wish  you  don't  repent  your  obliging 
invitation  to  a  correspondence,  for  though  I  am  not  one  of 
the  greatest  talkers  in  the  world,  I  am  an  everlasting 
scribbler ;  a  proof  of  this  truth  you  will  have  when  I  tell 
you,  that  I  have  written  two  long  letters  to  your  excel- 
lent sister,  Mrs.  Pendarves,  since  Thursday  last,  on 
which  day  I  received  one  from  her,  which  so  transported 
me  with  admiration  of  her  goodness  towards  me,  that  1 
verily  think  for  some  time  I  was  hardly  sensible,  nor  am 
I  yet  able  to  express  myself  as  I  ought  upon  the  subject 
of  it,  and  fear  I  nevershall.  Though  I  am  commanded 
to  reveal  it  to  nobody,  I  believe  I  may  be  certain  she 
will  not  take  it  ill  if  I  communicate  it  to  you;  it 
was  the  honour  of  an  offer  from  their  Graces  the  Duke 
and  Duchess  of  Portland  to  teach  their  children,  with 
the  promise  of  a  generous  allowance.  The  charming 
character  Mrs.  Pendarves  gives  me  of  those  noble  per- 
sons would  not  suffer  me  to  think  twice  whether  I 
should  accept  it,  notwithstanding  the  true  sense  I  have 
of  my  own  unworthiness  of  so  great  an  honour, 

I  beg  ten  thousand  pardons,  dear  madam,  that  I  did 
not  deliver  your  letter  to  Mrs.  Bendon^  with  my  own 
hand,  but  I  was  so  extremely  ill  that  I  was  not  able  to 

*  Query  Btndon  ? 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  17 

go  abroad  ;  my  bad  health  and  great  weakness  deprives 
me  of  the  happiness  of  waiting  on  the  worthy  ladies  I 
know  in  Bath.  I  have  had  the  happiness  of  seeing  Mrs. 
Bendon  but  once  since  I  came ;  and  according  to  my 
weak  judgment  she  answers  the  character  you  give  her. 
I  have  seen  Lady  Cocks  twice,  the  first  time  she  sent 
for  me  to  wait  on  Lady  Codrington ;  her  Ladyship  was 
then  very  ill  with  a  cold  she  had  got  coming  to  Bath. 
Since  that  she  invited  m6  to  dine  with  her :  she  then 
seemed  pretty  cheerful;  our  conversation  was  upon  in- 
different things,  which  is  certainly  best  for  persons  in- 
clined to  melancholy.  My  obligations  to  Dr.  Oliver  are 
very  great,  which  increases  the  vast  number  upon  me  of 
yours  and  Mrs.  Pendarves's.  I  think  it  is  now  high  time  to 
take  my  leave,  and  to  assure  you  that  I  am,  with  the 
highest  value  and  esteem  for  the  worthy  Mrs.  Granville 

and  yourself/ 

Dear  madam. 

Tour  most  grateful  and  affectionate 

Humble  servant, 

Elizabeth  Elstob. 


Mr$.  Peridarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranviUe^  cU  Ghucester, 

Bulstrode,  Dec.  22,  1738. 

Though  the  bright  celestial  sun  has  put  on  all  his 
charms,  and  adorned  with  sword  and  belt,  shines  with  the 
utmost  splendor,   and  as  I  passed  by  the  window  of 

^  It  is  evident  from  the  above  letter  to  Ann  Granville  that  she  Tiad  made 
the  personal  acqnaintance  of  Mrs.  Elatob  some  time  before,  and,  therefore, 
that  the  words  of  Mrs.  Pendarvee,  expressing  her  desire  that  her  sister  should 
"  see  hcTy*  mnst  have  meant  at  her  mother's  house,  that  she  might  the  better 
judge  of  her  character,  before  she  went  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland. 

VOL.  II.  C 


Digitized  by 


Google 


18  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

assignation  twinkled  upon  me  to  call  me  to  a  conference, 
I  resist  all  his  allurements  !  T  have  your  last  dear  letters 
now  before  me.  I  turn  oyer' another  leaf,  another,  another 
and  another  I  I  would  indeed  be  your  chief  delight, 
but  not  your  only  one,  and  yotl  add  to  my  own  particular 
happiness  by  making  that  of  so  many  agreeable  Mends 
that^ow  how  to  value  you.  I  hope  my  poor  Fo.  has  had 
my  letter ;  I  grieve  for  all  her  sorrows.  Our  queen  of  a 
Duchess  truly  loves  you,  and  admires  your  letters 
excessively ;  she  was  in  raptures  with  that  she  received 
last  post,  the  Elstobian  affair  is  quite  fixed,  and  she 
expressed  the  utmost  satisfaction  at  having  secured  such 
a  worthy  woman  to  educate  her  children ;  I  wrote  last 
post  to  Mrs.  Elstob  to  tell  her  the  Duchess  looked  on 
her  as  engaged  to  her,  and  that  her  salary  should  begin 
on  Xtmas  Day  next,  though  she  could  not  conve- 
niently take  her  into  her  family  till  Midsummer;  I 
hope  she  will  write  to  the  Duchess,  and  suppose  she  will 
of  course ;  I  gave  her  a  little  hint,  but  would  not  have 
it  mentioned  that  I  did,  I  agree  with  you  in  what  you 
say  about  our  cousins ;  but  you  and^I  have  often  agreed, 
though  we  have  a  perfect  reliance  on  Providence,  that  we 
are  to  make  use  of  all  reasonable  methods  for  our  advance- 
ment, and,  as  far  as  our  short-sightedness  will  allow,  to 
provide  against  the  common  accidents  of  life.  I  think 
your  advise  to  Mrs.  Elstob  quite  right  about  paying 
debts ;  a  person  of  such  principles  tts  hers  cannot  enjoy 
any  advantages  without  doing  that  justice  when  it  is  in 
her  power  to  do  it, 

I  wish  prosperity  to  the  convocation ;  may  it  meet 
weekly  and  .produce  much  edification,  not  only  to  the 
present  members  but  to  the  absent  one,  who  hopes  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  19 

reap  mucli  frnit  at  a  distance  from  its  ingenious  and 
sprightly  conferences.  You  diverted  me  extreamly  with 
the  discretion  of  the  Miller,  I  have  a  little  of  the  fairy 
disposition,  and  like  to  have  my  favours  concealed.  I 
think  your  plot  against  Quadrille  a  good  one,  but 
Gloucester  is  not  worthy,  nor  are  people  who  only 
love  snapping  noses  formed  to  receive  such  enter- 
tainment, 'twould  be  (saving  their  presence)  "  throwing 
pearl  before  swine :"  but  if  you  would  compile  a  journal 
in  the  dressing-room,  and  call  in  to  your  assistance 
the  Inferencer  and  his  cousin  elect,  there  are  souls 
at  Bulstrode  could  relish  such  an  entertainment. 

I  missed  the  occultation  of  Aldebaran  and  the  moon ; 
the  nights  have  been  so  cold  of  late,  and  Mr.  Achard  so 
grunting  that  I  have  not  peeped  much  at  the  heavenly 
bodies,  but  I  have  had  two  or  three  lectures  of  cos- 
mography in  the  library.  This  morning,  as  my  master 
and  I  were  drawing  and  examining  circles,  who  should 
come  in  but  Mr.  Robert  Harley ;  I  blushed  and  looked 
excessive  silly  to  be  caught  in  the  fact,  but  the  affair, ' 
which  I  have  endeavoured  to  keep  secret,  is  dis- 
covered, and  I  must  bear  the  reflection  of  those  who 
think  me  very  presuming  in  attempting  to  be  vnse. 
I  am  much  obliged  to  my  master;  he  takes  a  great 
deal  of  pains  with  me,  and  has  a  clear  way  of  instructing 
me.  I  shall  never  aim  at  talking  upon  subjects  of  that 
kind,  but  the  little  I  may  gain  by  these  lectures  will 
make  me  take  more  pleasure  in  hearing  others  talk. 

I  am  sorry  for  my  Lady  Cox,  and  lament  the  want 
of  judgment  in  a  woman  of  such  excellent  virtues ; 
but  a  warm  heart,  with  excess  of  good  nature,  will  lead 
people  into  error  without  a  proper  resolution  and  very 

c2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


20  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

discerning  judgment  to  keep  the  balance  even.  You  for- 
got in  your  last  to  enclose  Mrs.  Elstob's  letter,  though 
you  said  you  had. 

Yesterday  morning,  at  breakfast,  the  Duchess  said  she 
had  "  had  a  charming  letter  from  her  dear  Pip."  "  Pip," 
says  Lord  Dup.  "  must  write  long  letters,  she  has  such  a 
flow  of  spirits  and  of  wit  that  if  it  were  not  for  frequent 
explosions,  they  would  prey  upon  and  destroy  her  con- 
stitution ;  she  is  by  much  the  most  spirituelle  creature 
I  ever  met  with.  I  shall  never  forget  the  last  conversa- 
tion we  had :  why  does  not  she  come  to  town  ?  She 
must !"  He  ran  on  saying  much  more  than  I  can 
remember.  At  dinner  to-day  Mrs.  Pipkin's  health  was 
drank  to  Cousin  Pots^  and  all  the  young  Pipperkins, 
which  made  the  youth  blush  abundantly.  Lord  Oxford 
came  here  last  Tuesday,  and  brought  with  him  a  pretiy 
kind  of  man  (Mr.  Robert  Harley^)  :  his  manner  sensible 
and  agreeable,  his  person  something  like  my  Lord 
Foley,  but  the  Duchess  won't  allow  that  he  is  better. 
Lord  Oxford  and  I  talked  of  books  and  pictures. 

Pray  tell  me  if  you  recollect  the  name  of  the  ruins  I 
sketched  in  my  book,  and  who  the  place  belonged  to  ?  I 
took  care  of  all  your  letters.  The  King  has  given  Lady 
Bateman*  lodgings  in  Windsor  Castle,  which  will  be 
great  joy  to  Miss  Granville,  for  they  are  very  intimate. 


*  Cousin  Pots.    QueTy  Lord  Dupplin. 

•  "  Mr.  Robert  Hcurley^-  son  of  Edward  Harley  of  Eywood,  first  cousin  of 
Edward,  2nd  Earl  of  Oxford,  and  brother  to  Edward,  3rd  Earl  of  Oxford. 

'  Sir  James  Bateman  was  M.P.  for  Ilchester  in  1712 ;  in  1717  he  was 
Lord  Mayor  of  London ;  in  1718  he  was  Governor  of  the  South  Sea  Company, 
and  in  the  same  year  he  died.  His  wife  was  Anne,  daughter  and  co-heir  of 
John  Searle,  Esq.,  of  Finchley.  Their  son  William  was  created  a  Viscount 
in  1726,  and  married  Lady  Anne  Spencer,  eldest  daughter,  by  the  second 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  21 

Donnellan  talks  of  getting  to  Bath  by  February ;  I 
own  her  very  ill  state  of  health  quite  damps  the  joy  of 
seeing  her ;  she  bids  me  tell  you  she  takes  you  into  her 
scheme  there  and  in  all  her  healthy  designs.  She  writes 
me  a  short  letter,  and  says  even  that's  a  pain  to  her  to  write. 
Adieu,  my  dearest  sister;  my  affectionate  duty  to  my 
mother,  kind  service  to  all  friends. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Ann  OranviHe,  at  Gloucester. 

BulBtrode,  Dec.  29, 1738. 

Two  of  your  letters  are  spread  before  me ;  but  how 
well  I  shall  discharge  the  debt  I  cannot  guess,  for  my 
Lord  Oxford  has  lent  me  some  curious  drawings  of  Stone- 
henge  to  copy,  that  if  I  don't  finish  by  Monday  next,  I 
shall  never  more  get  possession  of.  They  have  employed 
me  two  mornings,  and  will  two  mornings  more,  so  that 
my  writing-hour  is  drove  down  to  the  evening.  Well,  I 
must  drink  coffee  at  five,  and  play  with  the  little  jewels — 
it  is  the  ceremony  of  the  house  :  then  says  the  Duchess, 
"  Don't  go,  Penny,  tiU  I  have  net  one  row  in  my  cherry 
net,"  which  proves  a  hundred  meshes,  then  comes  some 
prater,  asks  her  Grace  a  question ;  the  arm  suspended  in 
the  air  forgets  its  occupation;  she  answers,  and  asks 
some  other  question  in  return — ^ten  to  one  but  a  laugh  is 
hatched,  and  once  in  a  quarter  of  an  hour  the  netting- 
work  is  remembered  I  With  patience  I  await  her  solemn 
motions,  and  by  half-an-hour  after  six  we  are  in  the 
dressing-room,  armed  with    pen  and  ink,  and  the  fair 

marriage,  of  Charles,  3rd  Earl  of  Sunderland.  The  date  of  death  of  Lady 
Bateman  is  not  given,  nor  the  date  of  the  Viscount's  marriage,  but  one  or  other 
of  these  ladies  must  have  had  the  rooms  at  Windsor,  probably  the  latter. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


22  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

field  prepared  to  receive  the  attack.  Then  comes  Lady- 
Elizabeth,  Lady  Harriot,  and  the  noble  Marquis ;  after 
half  an  hour's  jumping,  they  are  dismissed,  and  we 
soberly  say,  '*  Now  we  will  write  our  letters."  In  comes 
the  Duke,  "  the  tea  stays  for  the  ladies ;"  well,  we  must 
go,  for  there's  no  living  at  Bulstrode  without  four  meals 
a-day  ;  then  when  the  beaux  esprits  are  met,  the 
ftimes  of  inspiring  tea  begin  to  operate,  'tiU  eight  of  the 
clock  strikes ;  then  we  start  up,  run  away,  and  here  I 
am,  brimful  of  a  thousand  things  to  say  to  you,  but 
have  no  time  to  write  them,  and  that  you  know  is  a  sad 
case.  Ton  and  I  perfectly  agree  in  what  you  say  of  Sir 
John  Stanley  and  my  brother. 

We  leave  Bulstrode  next  Saturday  se'night ;  I  shall  sigh 
when  I  turn  my  back  upon  it,  for  I  have  passed  my  time 
as  happily  as  it  is  possible  for  me  in  your  absence.  'Tis 
not  to  be  told  how  many  pretty  engaging  ways  our  dear 
friend  has  to  gain  the  love  and  admiration  of  those  she 
honours  with  her  friendship,  and  this  you  well  know,  but 
I  love  to  repeat  it. 

I  am  seriously  alarmed  about  the  panics  you  take  in 
the  Prelate's  company:  ^'aw'd  by  a  thousand  tender 
fearSj  tell  me — tell  me^  my  hearty  if  this  be  love  f "  Ah, 
ma  chere  !  what,  caught  in  a  purple  rope?  but  I  would 
not  have  you  despair ;  I  will  give  a  hint  to  Lord  Dup. 
to  speak  a  favourable  word  for  you,  if  his  political  con- 
versations will  allow  him  to  talk  of  anything  but  Par- 
liamentary affairs,  etc.  I  will  give  him  to  understand 
that  you  are  an  excellent  housewife,  can  raise  paste,  feed 
poultry,  keep  accounts,  and  talk  very  prettily  to  the 
young  parsons,  that  you  will  indulge  your  Lord  in  his 
v^sjs,  and  with  a  gentle  sway  pursue  your  oum ! 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  23 

Mach  more  I  had  to  say,  but  the  Duchess  is  so  pro- 
vokingly  witty,  and  my  Lady  Waw  seconds  the  motion 
so  strongly,  with  the  help  of  her  fingers  tickling 
me  wherever  she  can  catch  me,  that  I  can  scrawl  no 
more.  So  farewell ;  and  if  my  letter  is  unintelligible  and 
freakish,  'tis  owing  to  my  mad  companions,  who  have 
made  such  confusion  in  my  brain.  I  can  think  dis* 
tinctly  but  in  one  particular,  and  that  is,  that  in  all  my 
humours,  whether  grave  or  merry,  I  am, 

With  the  most  tender  and  constant  affection, 

Yours. 

Lady  Waw  may  look  as  pretty  as  she  pleases,  and  say 
as  many  civil  things  as  words  can  express ;  I  won't-  tell 
you  a  tittle  in  her  favour  to-night. 


Mn,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  Ora/nviUe. 

9th  January,  1738-9. 

I  am  arrived  at  the  land  of  hurry  and  impertinence, 
and  have  left  the  gentle  delights  of  Bulstrode ;  much  I 
lament  the  change,  though  I  have  had  the  great  plea- 
sure of  finding  all  our  good  friends  in  very  good  health 
and  glad  to  see  me. 

We  set  out  from  Bulstrode  at  eleven,  and  were  in  town 
by  half  an  hour  after  two,  over  hills  of  snow  and  heaps 
of  ice ;  but  our  horses  flew  as  if  each  had  been  a  Pegasus 
.  — ^four  coaches  and  six,  with  twelve  horsemen  attending, 
besides  apothecaries,  bakers,  butchers,  that  joined  in  the 
procession  to  escort  us  part  of  the  way.  The  Duchess 
of  Portland  and  all  her  train  are  very  well  after  their 
journey. 

Yesterday  I  dined  with  Sir  John  Stanley ;   he  looks 


Digitized  by 


Google 


24  LIFE  AND  OORRE8PONDEN0B 

and  is  very  well :  he  says  he  was  determined  to  use  me 
very  ill,  but  he  has  not  kept  to  his  resolution.  He  has 
given  me  an  excessively  pretty  English  pebble  bottle  with 
a  gold  top,  which  is  an  absolute  beauty,  and  has  put  into 
my  hands  for  you  two  black  and  gold  japan  cups  and 
saucers,  which  I  am  sure  you  will  like.  Yesterday,  in  the 
afternoon,  I  went  to  my  Lady  Sunderland :  she  looks 
charminly,  though  she  has  had  a  bad  cold,  attended  by  a 
sore  throat.  Miss  Sutton  is  very  tall — ^is  thin,  but  grows 
more  and  more  agreeable  :  she  asked  after  all  her  friends 
at  Gloucester,  and  wishes  to  see  you  in  town  soon.  I  staid 
with  the  Countess  till  nearly  twelve :  the  Dragon  was 
abroad;  all  the  boys  are  at  home,  so  there  is  noise 
enough  you  may  believe.  I  called  yesterday  morning 
on  Lady  Sarah  Cowper,  she  was  so  ill  with  a  violent 
headache,  she  could  hardly  speak.  Tour  letter  to  my 
brother  has  given  me  a  little  comfort  on  Mrs.  Dun- 
comVs  account ;  I  have  been  very  much  grieved  about 
her,  but  hope  she  will  now  soon  get  the  better  of  her 
disorder. 

To-day  I  dine  at  my  brother's,  and  come  home 
in  the  afternoon  to  see  folks.  To-morrow  I  go  to  hear 
Mr.  Handel's  oratorio  rehearsed,  and  in  the  afternoon 
am  to  have  our  amiable  Duchess  snug  to  myself;  for 
though  we  passed  so  many  weeks  together,  she  and  I 
had  but  one  tete-k-tete  the  whole  time,  for  Lady  W.  is 
a  sort  of  an  idle  hody^  and  never  retired  to  her  room  for 
one  moment,  for  she  drest  as  soon  as  she  was  up — so 
she  had  no  call  from  us.  On  Thursday  I  am  to  go  to 
Lady  North's,^  and  Friday  stay  at  home  for  Mrs.  Caty, 

*  Francis  Lord  North,  married,  secondly,  in  1736,  Elizabeth,  ViBOOuntess 
Dowager  of  Lewisham,  daughter  of  Sir  Arthur  Kayo. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  .25 

Lady  WaUingford,  and  anybody  that  comes. — Thus  is 
my  time  cut  out  for  this  week ;  and  now  it  is  time  for 
me  to  thank  my  dearest  sister  for  her  most  sprightly 
letter,  with  Binikin's  enclosed,  which  diverted  me  ex- 
tremely. Mrs.  Delahay  and  a  thousand  Mrs.  Fiddle- 
Jbddles  to  plague  me.  Three  gowns  have  I  tried  on; 
yesterday  I  bespoke  a  hoop  petticoat,  of  the  exact 
dimensions  of  my  old  one ;  the  fashionable  hoops  are 
made  of  the  richest  damask,  trimmed  with  gold  and 
silver,  fourteen  guineas  a  hoop.  Would  you  have  me 
bespeak  you  such  a  one  against  you  come  ? 

Last  night  I  received  a  very  entertaining  letter,  and 
some  excellent  verses  from  the  Miller  of  Mansfield.  The 
prose  I  will  answer  as  soon  as  I  can  find  time  (a  most 
precious  and  rare  thing).  Poor  Mrs.  Greville  1  I  shall 
rejoice  to  hear  of  her  having  finished  her  painful  task. 
The  newspapers,  I  suppose,  informed  you  of  the  unhappy 
end  of  one  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland's  maids,  who  was 
thrown  out  of  the  waggon  ;^  the  wheels  ran  over  her, 
and  she  lived  three  hours  in  exquisite  misery:  this 
melancholy  accident  damped  all  our  spirits  exta-emely. 
Bunny  is  gone  this  morning  to  Whitehall ;  he  looks 
very  well,  but  is  rather  fatter :  he  desired  me  to  make 
his  compliments  and  excuse  for  not  writing.  Young 
Monck  is  iii  town,  and  the  finest  of  beaux;  I  asked  him 
if  he  heard  that  Miss  Usher  was  going  to  be  married  ? 
He  said,  "  No  ,•*'  I  wish  your  news  of  her  may  be  true. 
I  believe  Donnellan  will  be  in  England  in  a  month,  and 


}  Dean  Swift,  when  a  young  man,  nsed  to  travel  by  a  stage- waggon  from 
Moor  Park  into  Leicestershire  to  see  his  mother.  Some  of  the  "flying 
waggons  '*  of  the  middle  of  the  eighteenth  century  vied  with  each  other  in 
aooommodations  for  passengers. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


26  .  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  hope  you  will  give  her  the  meeting :  my  orother  and 
I  have  contrived  that  between  our  two  houses  we  shall 
accomodate  you  both  very  cleverly ;  you  and  I  are 
one,  Phil  may  have  George's  room,  and  two  of  our 
maids  may  lie  at  my  brother  s.  I  own  I  have  but 
little  joy  at  the  thought  of  seing  poor  Don,  for  were 
she  not  in  a  very  bad  way  she  would  not  take  such  a 
voyage  and  journey  at  this  time  of  the  year. 

I  must  entreat  you  to  make  my  excuse  to  Mrs.  Viney 
and  her  daughters.  I  am  ashamed  of  not  having  an- 
swered their  kind  letters,  but  will  soon  make  my  own 
apology.     My  very  kind  wishes  attend  her  and  hers. 


Mrs,  Pendarv€8  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranviUe, 

Brook  Street,  23  Jan.  1738-9. 

I  have  gone  through  infinite  vanity  and  bustle  since 
my  last  visit  to  you,  but  shall  think  my  toils  well  recom- 
pensed, if  I  can  draw  any  entertainment  out  of  them  for 
you.  I  wrote  to  you  last  Thursday ;  dined  that  day  at 
Sir  John  Stanley's,  came  home  to  receive  our  cousins, 
(three  of  the  Carteret  race,)  and  went  afterwards  to  Lady 
Strafford's  ^  with  Lady  WaUingford,^  who  I  am  sure  will 
be  extremely  pleased  with  your  letter.     Lady  Straff's,  you 


^  Anne,  sole  daughter  and  heir  of  Sir  Henry  Johnson,  married,  on  Sept. 
6, 1711,  Thomas  Wentworth,  Earl  of  Strafford.  The  Earl  died  in  November, 
1739. 

»  Lord  Viscount  Wallingford,  M.P.  for  Banbury,  died  in  June,  1740.  Lady 
Wallingford  is  said  by  Walpole  to  be  the  daughter  of  John  Law,  the 
speculator,  and  Lady  Catherine,  his  wife.  In  1783  he  speaks  of  seeing  her 
frequently  at  the  Duchess  of  Montrose's,  and  mentions  that  "  she  has  by  no 
means  a  look  of  the  age  to  which  she  had  arrived."  John  Law,  the  Mississippi 
projector,  married  Catherine,  daughter  of  Nicholas  EnoUes,  Earl  of  Banbury, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  27 

know,  is  but  a  muzzy  place ;  •  I  met  nothing  to  chatter 
with  that  gave  me  any  pleasure,  except  our  sprightly 
Duchess^  who  came  in  just  as  I  was  going  away  with 
Lady  Lucy  Manners  ^  from  the  play. 

Friday  was  appointed  for  our  meeting  Lord  Oxford  at 
Mr.  Virtue's  the  engraver's,^  where  I  saw  nothing  extra- 
ordinary, but  an  old  picture  which  belongs  to  my  Lord 
Digby's  femily,  of  Queen  Elizabeth  being  carried  under  a 
canopy  of  state  in  honour  of  Lord  Hunsdon's  marriage 

with  a  Lady  Mary 's  daughter.     There  are  six  men 

of  quality  that  carry  the  Queen,  and  Knights  of  the  Gkrter 
attending  the  bride,  her  mother  and  sisters  all  on  foot ; 
all  the  figures  are  supposed  to  be  portraits,  but  none  are 
known  now  but  Lord  Hunsdon's,  Lord  Burleigh's,  and 
Lord  Leicester's.  Virtue  is  copying  it  in  miniature  for 
my  Lord  Oxford,  I  dined  that  day  at  Whitehall,  and  came 
home  to  Mr.  Hambden,  who  was  to  introduce  his  two 
nieces.  Lady  Catherine  Hanmer  spent  the  whole  after- 
noon with  me ;  Misses  Kempthoms  seem  to  be  modest, 
well-behaved  young  women,  nothing  remarkable  in  their 
persons,  handsome  or  otherwise,  which  is  all  I  can  judge 
fix)m  a  first  visit.  After  much  persuasion  and  many 
debates  within  myself,  I  consented  to  go  with  Lady 
Dysart  to  the  Prince's  birthday,  humbly  drest  in  my 

and  had  a  son,  John,  who  died  at  Maestricht  in  1784 ;  and  a  daughter,  married 
to  William,  Viscount  Wallingford,  who  died  in  1790,  aged  80.  John  Law 
died  at  Venice  in  1729. 

'  liidy  Lucy  Manners,  youngest  daughter  of  John,  2nd  Duke  of  Rutland, 
by  his  second  wife,  Lucy,  daughter  of  Bennet,  Baron  Sherard.  She  married,  in 
1742,  William,  2nd  Duke  of  Montrose. 

'  George  Yertue,  the  eminent  engraver  and  antiquary,  bom  in  London,  in 
1684.  He  was  patronized  by  the  Earl  of  Oxford  and  Sir  Godfrey  Eneller,  and 
soon  rose  into  note.  The  works  of  Vertue  are  numerous,  and  valuable  on 
account  of  their  accuracy,  though  sometimes  deficient  in  spirit. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


28  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

pink  damask,  white  and  gold  handkerchief,  plain  green 
ribbon,  and  Lady  Sunderland's  buckles  for  my  stays.^  I 
was  a  good  foil  for  those  that  were  there.  I  never  saw 
so  much  finery  without  any  mixture  of  trumpery  in  my 
life.  Lady  Huntingdon's,^  as  the  most  extraordinary, 
I  must  describe  first : — her  petticoat  was  black  velvet 
embroidered  with  chenille,  the  pattern  a  large  stone  vase 
fiUed  with  ramping  jlowers  that  spread  almost  over  a 
breadth  of  the  petticoat  from  the  bottom  to  the  top ; 
between  each  vase  of  flowers  was  a  pattern  of  gold  shells, 
and  foliage  embossed  and  most  heavily  rich ;  the  gown 
was  white  satin  embroidered  also  with  chenille  mixt  with 
gold  ornaments,  no  vases  on  the  sleeve,  but  two  or  three 
on  the  tail;  it  was  a  most  laboured  piece  of  finery,  the 
pattern  much  properer  for  a  stucco  staircase  than  the 
apparel  of  a  lady, — a  mere  shadow  that  tottered  under 
every  step  she  took  under  the  load.  The  next  fine  lady 
was  Mrs.  Spencer ;  her  clothes,  green  paduasoy  covered 
all  over,  the  gown  as  well  as  petticoat,  with  a  very  fine 
and  very  pretty  trimming ;  it  was  well  made ;  she  looked 
genteel  and  easy,  and  had  all  the  dowager  Duchess  of  M/s 
jewels,  which  made  her  look  quite  magnificent.    Lady 


*  **  My  stays.**  Straps  from  the  gown,  the  stays  were  white  silk  covered 
with  a  lacing  through  which  a  handkerchief  was  passed. 

•  Theophilus,  Earl  of  Huntingdon,  married  June  8,  1728,  Lady  Selina 
Shirley,  second  daughter  of  Washington  Earl  Ferrers,  celebrated  after  the 
Earl's  decease  (which  took  place  in  1746)  by  the  leading  part  she  took 
in  religious  matters.  Availing  herself  of  her  privilege  as  a  peeress,  she 
nominated  chaplains,  and  had  services  performed  wherever  she  was ;  one  of 
her  chaplains  was  Whitfield.  She  built  chapels  in  various  places,  which  are 
still  called  by  her  name,  and,  after  the  death  of  Whitfield,  his  followers  were 
called  "i/cwfy  Huntingdon's  people.'*  She  espoused  the  principles  of  the  Cal- 
vinistic  Methodists,  and  foimded  the  Collie  of  Trevecca  in  South  Wales. 
Lady  Huntingdon  died  1791. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  29 

Djsart  was  wUte  gold,  and  looked  as  handsome  as 
ever  I  saw  her  ;  Miss  Carteret  in  an  uncut  blue  velvet, 
and  all  my  Lady  Carteret's  jewels;  Lady  Carteret  in 
the  same  clothes  she  made  for  the  Prince's  wedding, 
white  and  gold  and  colours  ;  the  Princess  was  in  white 
satin,  the  petticoat  covered  ^th  a  gold  trimming  like 
embroidery,  faced  and  robed  with  the  same.  Her  head 
and  stomacher  a  rock  of  diamonds  and  pearls ;  her  looks 
pleased  me  better  than  her  dress;  there  appeared  in 
them  such  strong  marks  of  contentment  and  good-humour. 
She  spoke  to  everybody ^  and  so  did  the  Prince.  The 
baU  began  at  eight ;  I  never  saw  a  ball  at  Court  well 
managed  before.  The  Prince  and  Princess  sat  under  the 
State,  their  attendants  on  stools  on  the  right  and  left 
hand ;  benches  were  placed  for  the  rest  of  the  company, 
the  first  row  of  which  was  kept  for  the  dancers.  The  best 
dancers  were  Lady  Catherine  Hanmer,  Lady  Dysart,  and 
Miss  Wyndham ;  nothing  extraordinary  among  the  men ; 
much  finery,  chiefly  brown  with  gold  or  silver  embroidery, 
and  rich  waistcoats.  Lord  Carteret  was  there  momiiiLg 
and  night. 

'Tis  now  strongly  reported  that  there  is  going  to  be  a 
reconciliation  between  the  King  and  Prince,  but  the 
truth  of  that  is  doubted.  Lord  Townshend  has  thrown 
up,  nobody  knows  why.  The  Prince  began  the  ball 
with  the  Duchess  pf  Bedford ;  after  one  minuet  he  sat 
down.  When  two  country-dances  were  over  the  Princess 
went  to  quadrille  with  Lady  Archibald  Hamilton,  Lady 
Westmoreland,  and  Lady  Chesterfield;  the  Prince  in 
another  room  to  whisk  with  Lord  Baltimore,  Lady 
Blandford,  and  Lady  Carteret.  At  half  an  hour  after  eleven 
the  Prince  and  Princess  gave  over  cards  and  went  away. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


30  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Tho  dancing  broke  up  at  the  same  time,  and  all  the 
company  I  believe  was  gone  by  half  an  hour  after  twelve ; 
which  I  think  was  very  orderly,  considering  how  many 
people  there  were  to  get  at  their  equipages.  I  got  home 
a  little  after  twelve,  eat  my  supper,  told  George^  all  I 
had  seen,  was  in  bed  soon  after  one,  and  slept  happily  for  I 
dreamt  of  you,  and  next  morning,  was  up  and  ready  to 
receive  my  Lord  Dupplin  and  Mr.  Wotton,  who  came 
to  breakfast  with  me ;  talked  much  of  my  favourite  art, — 
Mr.  Wotton  encourages  me  to  go  on.  Went  to  church  at 
eleven  ;  your  humble  servant  Mr.  Stillingfleet,  I  believe  is 
chaplain  to  the  Bishop  of  Durham ;  he  comes  constantly 
to  church  with  him  and  sits  in  his  seat.  Should  I  not  ask 
him  to  come  and  see  me  ?  Mr.  Harbin  and  my  brother 
eat  part  of  the  Glocester  chine ;  a  thousand  thanks  for  it. 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  Granville. 

27th  January,  1738-9. 

I  was  yesterday  at  dinner  at  Lord  Oxford's  when 
1  received  your  last  letter,  which,  with  the  permis- 
mission  of  the  company,  I  skimmed  over  to  satisfy  my- 
self of  your  health:  at  my  return  home  I  indulged 
myself  with  a  more  particular  perusal,  and  dwelt  upon 
each  line  with  true  delight.  The  enclosed  letter  I  sent 
this  morning  by  Jo  to  Mr.  Hooker's  for  my  chairs  ac- 
cording to  your  advise ;  I  would  have  sent  a  porter, 
but  Jo  begged  he   might  go  to   see   the  town.      He 

*  George  was  a  waiting  woman,  and  very  probably  a  gentlewoman,  as  was 
very  common  in  those  days,  when  the  daughters  of  clergymen  or  decayed 
gentlemen  became  **  watting  women ^^tk  term  now  lost  in  that  of  "  lady's  maid." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  31 

behaves  very  well,  and  is  thus  far  the  best  servant  I  ever 
had. 

To  return  to  Mr.  N.'s  manuscript.  I  think  it  worthy 
of  the  author,  and  hope  it  will  answer  the  good  design 
it  was  wrote  with,  but  alas,  those  that  will  read  it  with 
attention  and  approbation  are  those  that  dont  want  it !  I 
will  speak  to  the  Duchess  to  take  the  paper ;  I  should 
be  very  glad  Mr.  Newton  met  with  any  encouragement 
or  advantage,  as  I  have  a  very  just  opinion  of  his  worth. 

I  am  delighted  that  my  mother  approves  so  well  of 
the  Irish  flax  ;  I  will  send  the  pattern  of  thread  to  Mrs. 
Donnellan,  but  it  seems  to  be  so  strong,  I  can't  think 
it  is  too  fine,  it  wiU  be  a  work  when  finished  more 
precious  than  that  Arachne  wove  when  she  enraged  Pallas 
by  her  excelling  !  I  lost  one  cold  at  Lady  Stratford's,  and 
caught  another  last  Wednesday  at  Norfolk  House,  which 
makes  me  cough,  but  not  bad.  I  really  was  glad  to  hear 
of  poor  Mrs.  Qreville's  death,  I  never  could  think  of 
her  alive  and  in  misery  without  pain. 

When  I  see  the  Duchess  of  Portland  I  shall  have 
Sally's  historical  epistle.  I  rejoice  to  hear  she  is  alive.  I 
wrote  to  her  a  huge  folio  just  before  I  left  Bulstrode,  and 
she  has  not  so  much  as  afforded  me  a  small  duodecimo  in 
return !  I  should  be  glad  to  see  any  of  Mrs.  Elstob's 
works,  and  will  enquire  after  the  translation  you  mention. 
I  shall  be  glad  when  she  is  safe  with  you  at  Gloucester. 
I  gave  you  an  account  in  my  last  of  Lady  Sun.'s 
kindness  to  Mr.  Gwinnet,  she  begged  her  name  might 
not  be  mentioned. 

How  shall  I  return  the  money  to  you  ? 

Mrs.  Cocks  is  still  with  Lady  Mary  CoUey,  sometimes 
scolding,  sometimes  friends;  they  rub  on  pretty  well. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


32  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

She  is  unhealthy,  which  is  what  Lady  Mary  complains 
of.  I  fully  designed  writing  to-day  to  Mrs.  Viney,  but 
this  letter  will  be  as  much  as  I  can  possibly  compass 
this  morning,  for  I  dine  at  the  Squire's,  am  to  meet 
the  Westcomb's,  every  moment  expect  Goupy,  and 
in  the  afternoon  meet  Lady  Sarah  Cowper  at  Mrs. 
Claverin  s.  The  Duchess  of  Marlborough  was  brought  to 
bed  yesterday  at  eleven  o'clock  of  a  son/  a  great  joy  ! 

Lady  Anne  Lumley  *  one  of  Princess  Amelia's  ladies, 
is  to  be  married  to  Mr.  Franklyn;  she  asked  leave 
yesterday.  She  is  well  pleased  too  I  believe,  for  her 
charms  are  in  their  decline,  and  Mr.  Franklyn  is  a  very 
good  match  for  her. 

Next  Monday,  at  the  Thatched  House'  in  St.  James's 
Street,  there  is  to  be  an  assembly— dancing  and  cards. 
Lady  Egmont  *  presides :  she  has  ask'd  my  brother  to  be 
of  the  party  ;  men  you  know,  especially  unmarried,  are 
valuable  commoditys.  I  am  not  to  be  there,  nor  do  I 
know  who  is  besides,  nor  upon  what  occasion  this  grand 
afl^r  is  set  on  foot,  but  I  believe  it  is  some  charity  busi- 
ness. I  hope  you  have  got  Swift's  poem  safe — I  long 
to  know  how  you  like  it.  Mr.  Nugent,*  that  married 
Mrs.  Bought,  has  lately  wrote  two  odes,  one  to  Mr. 
Pulteney  on  his  changing  his  religion ;  they  are  much 


*  George,  afterwards  3rd  Duke  of  Marlborough. 

*  Lady  Anne  Lumley,  third  daughter  of  Richard,  1st  Earl  of  Scarborough, 
married,  in  February  1739,  Frederic  Frankland,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  Thirsk.  Lady 
Anne  died  in  February,  1740. 

*  The  Thatched  House,  St.  James's  Street,  stood  originally  on  the  site  of 
the  present  Conservative  Club. 

*  Catherine,  wife  of  the  Ist  Earl  of  Egmont. 

*  Mr.  Nugent,  afterwards  Earl  Nugent,  wrote  several  poems,  and  an  ode 
**  upon  his  own  conversion  from  po|iery." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  88 

commended,  but  thought  too  fine  to  be  the  production 
of  the  person  named  to  be  the  author. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland,  Da^,  and  the  Duke  drank 
tea  and  picked  shells  for  me  last  Thursday.  Yesterday 
I  dined  at  Lord  Oxford's ;  we  went  at  twelve  to  look  over 
prints  of  Hollar,  and  drawings  from  antiquities  and 
rehques  at  Rome.  There  remains  so  much  more  to  see, 
that  we  are  to  go  there  next  Friday  at  nine  o'clock 
in  the  morning  to  finish. 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranviUe, 

[The  oommeDoement  of  this  letter  is  lost.] 

Query  (Bulstrode,  1739). 

Lady  Betty  is  rather  too  young,  being  but  three  years 
old,  to  have  a  preceptor,  but  as  Mrs.  Elstob  has  no 
settled  home  to  go  to,  I  dare  say  the  Duchess  will  con- 
sent to  take  her  before  the  time  of  her  being  wanted.  I 
much  fear  her  heing  in  so  bad  a  state  of  health  will 
make  her  incapable  of  application,  but  being  settled 
in  a  good  family  where  she  will  have  no  cares,  may  be 
more  beneficial  to  her  than  the  skill  of  all  the  physicians. 
I  desire  you  will  make  my  particular  compliments  to 
Mrs.  Viney ;  it  was  a  sincere  concern  to  me  to  leave  her 
with  her  affairs  in  so  perplexed  a  way,  and  heartily  wish 
her  better  success.  Eemember  me  kindly  to  her  pretty 
children  and  all  friends.  George  calls  to  me,  "  Madam, 
remember  to  tell  Miss  Granville,  Dapper  killed  a  hare 
yesterday  in  the  garden."  She  begs  her  humble  duty, 
and  is  thoroughly  sensible  of  all  your  favours.  Adieu  till 
after  breakfast. 

VOL.  II.  i> 


Digitized  by 


Google 


34  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  following  story  I  picked  up  at  the  tea-table,  and 
hope  I  shall  be  beforehand  with  the  Gloucester  journal : — 

A  lady  came  into  Birmingham  with  a  handsome  equi- 
page, and  "  desired  the  landlord  of  the  inn  to  get  her  a 
husband,  being  determined  to  marry  somebody  or  other 
before  she  left  the  town."  The  man  bowed,  and  supposed 
her  ladyship  to  be  in  a  facetious  humour,  but  being 
made  sensible  how  much  she  was  in  earnest,  he  went 
out  in  search  of  a  man  that  would  marry  a  fine  lady 
without  asking  questions !  After  many  repulses  from 
poor  fellows  who  were  not  desperate  enough  for  such  a 
venture,  he  met  with  an  exciseman,  who  said  he  "  could 
not  be  in  a  worse  condition  than  he  was"  and  accordingly 
went  with  the  innkeeper,  and  made  a  tender  of  himself, 
which  was  all  he  had  to  bestow  on  the  lady,  who  im- 
mediately went  with  him  to  one  who  gave  them  a 
license,  and  made  them  man  and  wife,  on  which  the  bride 
gave  her  spouse  two  hundred  pounds^  and  without  more 
delay  left  the  town  and  the  bridegroom  to  find  out  who 
she  was  or  unriddle  this  strange  adventure.  Soon  after 
she  was  gone,  two  gentlemen  came  into  the  town  in  full 
pursuit  of  her :  they  had  traced  her  so  far  upon  the  road, 
and  finding  the  inn  where  she  had  put  up,  they  examined 
into  all  the  particulars  of  her  conduct,  and  on  hearing 
she  loas  married  gave  over  their  pursuit,  and  returned 
back!  perhaps  our  little  Yorkshire  Tanner  may  in 
time  furnish  us  with  as  good  a  story?  *Tis  supposed 
the  young  lady  in  a  desperate  fit,  for  fear  of  being  mar- 
ried where  she  did  not  like,  chose  this  xmaccountable 
way  of  preventing  it.  Don't  think  that  though  I  have 
wrote  you  so  long  a  letter,  my  eye  has  suflfered  from 
it,  for  it  feels  perfectly  easy,  and  if  I  had  time  I  could 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DBLANY.  85 

wkhont  any  prejudice  to  it  add  another  page^  but  as  this 
letter  is  of  a  reasonable  length  I  will  now  retire,  though 
thought  rises  on  thought  and  urges  me  to  indulge  myself. 

Lady  Wal.  is  continually  engaging  me  by  the  obliging 
things  she  says  of  you ;  she  improves  on  aoquaintance, 
and  is  gentle,  sensible,  and  modest;  my  Lord  is  the 
counterpart  of  Jack  Lewson  the  elder.  The  Duke  of 
Portland  is  very  sorry  not  to  be  able  to  grant  a  scarfs  to 
our  acquaintance — ^his  are  all  fiUed  up,  and  the  first  two 
that  Ml  have  been  promised  these  four  years :  when  I 
go  to  town  if  I  can  make  interest  to  get  one  I  will. 
I  bespoke  six  pair  of  cui  fingered  gloves  of  the  man  at 
Gloucester,  send  them  directed  to  me  here  to  be  left  at 
Gerrard's  Cross,  and  give  me  notice  when  they  are  sent. 
The  drawing  may  be  rolled  on  a  smooth  stick  and  sent 
at  the  same  time ;  have  you  heard  lately  of  Mrs.  Wells  P 

I  had  a  letter  to-day  fircMxi  DonneUan,  she  com- 
plains much,  and  says  she  is  forbid  writing,  but  as  soon 
as  her  spirits  will  admit  of  it  she  will  write  to  her  dear 
namesake.  I  am  glad  Jack  Yate  behaved  generously  to 
the  poor  disconsolate  widow. 

P.S.  Wrote  by  LordBathurst  in  1727— 

"  Bathnrst  remembera  what  the  Paalmist  sings, 
And  jSncb,  that  princes  are  the  wns  of  kings.'' 

Nolo  (mswered  that  what 

'*  Bathorst  forgets  the  Psalmist  writ 
Was  stricUy  true,  and  once  again  is  hit,"* 


*  «*  Grant  a  scarf  to  tmr  acquaintance.^^ — ^This  possibly  might  have  alluded 
to  an  application  for  Mr.  Chapon  to  be  appointed  one  of  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land's chaplains. 


d2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


36  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mn.  Pendarves  to  Mn.  Ann  OranviHe. 

13th  Feb.  1738-9. 

I  was  at  the  oratorio  last  Saturday  with  Lady  Dysart, 
and  (oh  wmderfvl)  Lord  Carteret :  he  met  with  two 
patriot  ladies  that  took  up  his  attention  more  than  the 
music,  but  it  was  triumph  enough  to  get  him  there,  and 
what  will  more  increase  your  wonder,  he  treated  his 
ladies  with  their  tickets !  Lady  Carteret  is  very  much 
out  of  order  with  a  feverish  disorder,  which  has  not  yet 
intermitted  enough  to  give  the  bark,  but  she  has  been 
blooded  and  blistered ;  she  was  something  better  yester- 
day ;  Dr.  Hollins  attends  her,  and  proposed  giving  her 
the  bark  last  night.  She  holds  up  pretty  well  all  day, 
but  has  very  bad  nights,  though  she  does  not  keep  her  bed. 
I  am  indeed  most  heartily  concerned  for  your  amiable 
Princess;  pray  God  preserve  her  from  all  pestilential 
disorders,  and  grant  her  health  and  years  of  peace  and 

joy  ' 

Your  account  of  my  dear  mama  has  revived  our  spirits. 
My  brother  was  here  this  morning  before  eight,  to  know 
if  I  had  had  any  account  of  her  P  I  hope  all  our  entrea- 
ties will  prevail  on  her  to  be  very  careful  of  herself — she 
cannot  give  us  a  stronger  proof  of  her  affection.  I  forgot 
whether  asses*  milk  used  to  agree  with  my  mother ;  if  it 
does,  and  she  has  any  remains  of  a  cough,  I  wish  she 
would  take  it,  *tis  a  sovereign  remedy,  and  the  greatest 
sweetner  of  the  blood  in  the  world.  Mrs.  Seeker* 
and  Mrs.  Talbot  *  have  been  to  see  me ;  the  reason  that 
prevented  their  coming   sooner  was  a  melancholy  at- 

^  Sister  of  Bishop  Benson,  and  wife  of  tbe  Archbishop  of  Canterbury. 
*  Mother  of  the  well-known  Catherine  Talbot. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  37 

tendance  they  paid  Mrs*  Cocks/  my  Lord  Berkely's 
daughter,  who  died  the  14th  day  after  she  was  brought 
to  bed. 

Lord  Ws*  house  and  fiimiture  in  the  square  are  to  be 
sold  out  of  hand ;  it  has  been  reported  he  is  to  have  one 
of  Mr.  How's  daughter's  and  20,000/.,  but  I  fear  'tis  not 
true,  as  the  only  hope  there  is  of  a  reformation  is  his 
marrying  some  discreet  woman  who  may,  by  her  good 
humour,  gain  the  ascendant  over  him.  My  heart  is 
grieved  for  his  sisters  :  he  rmiM  if  he  goes  on  in  the  train 
he  is  at  present  be  ruined,  and  they  inevitably  crushed 
by  it. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland's  coach  came  for  me  just  as  I 
arrived  at  this  period ;  I  have  been  with  her  ever  since 
eleven  of  the '  clock,  found  her  very  complaining  with  a 
pain  in  her  head  and  a  very  bad  cough :  she  is  better 
this  afternoon,  and  says  a  thousand  kind  things  of  her 
" incomparable  Pipkin"  and  calls  herself  all  to  nought 
for  having  been  so  long  in  her  debt.  Dear  little  modest 
Dash  is  just  come  in,  and  blushes  of  the  deepest  dye 
adorn  her  cheeks  for  her  omissions  to  you — they  both 
swear  their  "  hands  oxeguiltt/,^*  but  their  "  hearts  are  free.'* 
I  wish  you  could  safely  send  me  the  antique  shell  nosegay ; 
I  am  going  to  fill  a  glass  case  with  shell-flowers,  and 
they  may  give  me,  as  you  say,  some  useful  hints. 

As  soon  as  I  had  dined  I  went  to  Masham  Street  to 
make  a  visit  to  Peg  Isaacson  and  Miss  Lawson — found 
them  at  home.    I  fancy  by  their  manner  of  talking,  Jack 


'  "  Died,  in  February,  in  childbed,  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Cocks,  wife  to  James 
Cocks,  Esq.,  and  daughter  of  the  Rt.  Hon.  the  Lord  Berkeley,  of  Stratton," 
— London  Magaeine, 

•  *•  Lord  W/* — Lord  Weymouth,  who  did  not  marry  again. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


38  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Lawson  ( Wid")  is  going  to  tie  the  noose  cigain,  but  as 
there  was  company  I  thought  it  not  so  well  to  ask  ques- 
tions. Adieu.  Oh  Lady  Throck.  is  brought  to  bed  of  a 
daughter,  and  is  very  well  and  had  a  good  time ;  Sir 
Robert  confined  to  his  bed  with  a  bad  cold ;  Miss  Birch 
wrote  the  Duchess  word  of  it. 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Ann  OranvUle, 

Park  Street,  17th  Feb.  1738-9. 

•  I  have  no  more  time  to  write  than  whilst  my  brother 
dresses  and  the  cloth  is  laid  for  dinner.  I  got  up  early 
this  morning  with  a  fiill  intention  of  writing  you  a  long 
letter,  but  every  moment  produced  some  interruption ;  the 
last  was  Mrs.  Lloyd's  coming  in  to  make  me  a  visit,  and 
Lady  Dysart's  calling  me  to  go  to  the  Painter's,  from 
whence  I  am  just  returned.  You  are  very  good  in  giving 
me  so  constant  an  account  of  my  mother ;  did  I  not  know 
your  truth  is  to  be  depended  on,  I  should  be  excessively 
uneasy  about  her,  but  you  seem  to  assure  me  so  sincerely 
of  her  being  better  that  I  believe  you.  Can't  she  take 
tufnip  broth  ?  if  it  is  a  little  disagreeable  at  first  a  little 
use  will  make  it  tolerable ;  /  actually  love  it  better  than 
any  soup,  it  is  very  good  for  a  cough,  and  cured  mine. 
I  go  to-night  to  the  oratorio — no  I  mean  to  Alexander's 
Feast  * — with  Mrs.  Carey.  The  post  before  last  I  received 
a  letter  from  Sally,  with  an  account  of  the  Bishop  of  Glou- 
cester having  said  that  her  husband  was  an  immoral  man ; 
at  which  she  fired,  writes  a  long  letter  to  the  Bishop,  and 


Alexander's  Feast  was  represented  on  the  17th  and  24th  of  Febniary, 
1739.  It  was  first  performed  on  the  19th  of  February,  1736.  Schloecher  says 
of  this  work.  Everything  is  superb  in  that  work,  in  which  Handel  once  more 
displayed  the  sovereign  power  of  his  genius  for  choral  combinations." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  30 

begs  to  know  the  aspersors  of  her  husband's  chastity  p  The 
letter  was  torote  so  loeUy  that  I  sent  it  on  to  the  Bishop, 
and  last  Thursday  morning  he  came  and  made  me  a  visit, 
and  brought  a  letter  in  answer  to  Mrs.  Chap.,  which  he 
gave  me  to  read :  it  was  good-natnred  and  civil,  clearing 
himself  of  ever  having  said  such  a  thing,  or  so  much  as 
ever  having  heard  it  mentioned.  We  had  much  discourse 
about  them ;  I  would  not  teaze  him  on  the  old  subject, 
but  I  said,  I  hoped  if  they  staid  till  Midsummer,  it 
would  be  no  offence ;  he  said  not,  and  that  he  ''  should  be 
glad  to  serve  them,"  when  it  lay  in  his  power.  I  spoke 
about  the  Qwinnets,  and  find  him  much  discontented 
about  them.  He  says,  they  have  a  reasonable  income, 
if  they  were  tolerable  managers ;  that  Mr.  G.  has  most 
shameAiUy  neglected  Hatherley,  and  he  is  glad  the  house 
is  burnt  down ;  I  put  in  a  word  or  two  to  mollify  matters. 
Our  dear  good  generous  Duchess  has  given  me  five 
guineas  for  the  poor  Gwinnets,  so  I  owe  you  ten  on  their 
account,  which  be  pleased  to  draw  on  me  for,  when  you 
think  proper. 

I  asked  the  Bishop  how  young  Newton  behaved,  and 
what  he  thought  of  him  ?  He  said,  "  if  he  had  known  as 
much  of  him  when  he  first  came  to  Gloucester  he  should  not 
have  left  Oxford ;  and  spoke  very  handsomely  and  kindly  of 
him,  but  that  he  had  been  told  he  maintained  his  friends 
at  the  Priory,  and  that  prevented  his  paying  some  money 
he  ought  to  have  done  about  Taunton.  I  answered  for 
that  being  a  mistake,  and  that  he  is  so  reasonable  and 
so  sensible  as  to  listen  to  advice,  and  to  reform  anything 
in  his  behaviour  the  Bishop  disapproved  of:  whatever 
he  does,  don't  let  him  neglect  obliging  the  Bishop,  and 
to  be  cautious  of  the  Dean  and  civil  to  him. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


40  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDBNCE 

I  dined  yesterday  at  Whitehall,  and  so  did  my  brother ; 
and  Pip's  health  was  most  affectionately  drank.  The 
Duchess  has  had  a  very  bad  cold ;  she  has  great  remorse 
about  not  writing  to  you,  but  considering  the  number 
of  affairs  she  has  to  manage  I  am  amazed  she  does  so 
much*  I  have  not  heard  from  Ireland  these  ten  days  or 
more ;  their  silence  frightens  me,  for  I  believe  poor  Don- 
nellan  is  in  a  very  dangerous  way.  Lady  Carteret  is 
something  better.  My  Lady  Sunderland  will  be  very 
glad  of  your  campanula  and  vetch  seed ;  she  and  all  hers 
are  well.     Dinner  is  now  ready,  and  I  must  say  adieu. 


Mrs,  Fendarves  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Weston^  near  Olney,  Bucks, 

24  Feb.  1738-9. 

I  must  congratulate  my  dear  Lady  Throckmorton  on 
her  having  a  daughter — if  a  son  would  have  been  more 
acceptable  I  wish  you  had  not  been  disappointed ;  but 
my  joy  on  this  occasion  is,  that  you  are  well  and  past 
the  dreadftd  hour;  I  was  concerned  to  hear  of  Sir 
Eobert's  being  iU,  but  hope  he  is  quite  recovered.  All 
the  world  in  these  parts  have  suffered  from  violent  colds ; 
our  dear  Duchess  has  had  her  share,  but  goes  abroad  again, 
and  I  hope  will  have  no  more  confinement,  for  it  does 
not  sit  very  easy  upon  her  active  spirit.  It  is  a  great 
satisfaction  to  me  that  you  have  your  agreeable  friend 
Miss  Birch  with  you,  and  though  you  have  one  friend  that 
exceeds  aU  others  in  your  affection — b.  female  friendj  who 
is  tender,  ingenious  and  entertaining,  must  be  a  great 
comfort  to  you  under  your  present  situation;  may  I 
flatter  myself  you  have  not  throvm  me  by  amongst  rub- 
bish that  is  no  more  to  be  taken  notice  of  P     I  made  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  41 

many  excnses  for  you  before  you  was  brought  to  bed 
as  you  could  wish  to  have,  considered  it  might  be  uneasy 
to  you  to  write,  and  grieved  most  truly  for  you  when  I 
heard  how  ill  you  had  been,  but  I  won't  promise  to  go 
onjn  this  indidgent  way ;  for  I  have  considered  you  long 
enough,  and  now  must  take  my  own  interest  into  con- 
sideration. A  letter  I  insist  upon  having  as  soon  as 
yea  can  grant  such  a  fsivour  without  hurting  your  head  or 
eyes,  though  I  would  rather  have  you  silent  than  that  you 
should  receive  the  least  injury  on  my  account ;  when  you 
write  pray  tell  me  something  about  the  little  girl.  I 
know  how  well  you  can  talk  as  a  friend,  a  daughter, 
and  a  wife;  to  complete  your  character,  I  wish  to  hear 
you  as  a  mother  I  My  particular  compliments  attend  Sir 
Robert  Throck.  and  Miss  Birch  (for  I  can't  help  think- 
ing myself  well  enough  acquainted  with  her  to  take  that 
liberty).     I  am  most  sincerely. 

Dear  Lady  Throck.'s  most  faithful  and 

Affectionate  humble  servant, 

M.   PfiNDARVES. 

My  brother  charges  me  with  his  most  humble  service 
and  congratulations  to  your  Ladyship  and  Sir  Robert. 

The  above  letter  is  addressed  to  Lady  Throckmorton,  at 
Weston,  of  which  Lipscombe  gives  the  following  account : — "  The 
manor  house  of  Weston  Underwood  (two  miles  west  of  Olney, 
Bucks)  was  nearly  rebuilt  by  Sir  Bobert  Throckmorton,  in  or 
about  1678.  The  scsenery  of  the  park  and  gardens,  with  the 
course  of  the  river,  and  the  venerable  groves  which  shelter  the 
mansion,  have  been  the  theme  of  Cowper's  muse.  An  extensive 
and  valuable  libraiy  and  numerous  &mily  portraits  were  amongst 
the  ornaments  of  Weston,  but  many  of  them,  with  divers  coats  of 
amis  in  painted  glass,  were  removed  to  Coughton,  in  Warwick- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

shire.  Soon  after  the  accession  of  Sir  Charles  Throckmorton  to 
the  estate  at  Coughton,  the  old  mansion  at  Weston,  being  much 
dilapidated  and  decayed,  was  taken  down,  except  the  chapel- 
wing  and  a  portion  of  the  oiSces ;  and  the  proprietor  removed  to 
the  more  ancient  abode  of  the  Throckmortons  at  Coughton. 
When  the  mansion  was  demolished  in  1827,  hiding-places  were 
discovered  which  had  probably  been  unknown  to  the  fiimily 
during  many  years.  In  the  floor  of  one  of  the  garrets,  near 
that  which  had  been  made  into  a  chapel,  was  a  trap-door,  opening 
into  a  small  room  below,  within  which  was  a  closet,  containing 
an  old  bed,  and  a  ladder  long  enough  to  reach  the  trap-door;  in 
another  place  was  a  concealed  door,  which  when  bolted  within- 
side,  could  not  be  distinguished  from  the  wainscot."  Miss  Staple- 
ton,  the  ^'^fair  Catherind^  ofCowper,  was  the  wife  of  a  grandson  of 
Sir  Eobert  Throckmorton,  so  often  mentioned  in  these  letters,  and 
the  BulSnch  celebrated  by  Cowper  belonged  to  Mary  Catherine^ 
wife  of  another  grandson,  who  succeeded  to  the  baronetcy  on  the 
death  of  the  husband  of  the  ''/otr  Kitty  CoUingtoood'' 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranviUe, 

Brook  Strt.,  3rd  March,  1738-9. 

Like  a  most  noble  patriot,  I  have  given  up  all  private 
advantages  for  the  good  of  my  country.  I  must  tell  my 
dearest  sister  that  Tuesday  and  Thursday  I  embarked, 
with  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury  and  Lady  Wallingford,  I 
may  say  in  s.  sea  of  troubles — a  rough  one  I  am  sure  it 
proved  to  us,  though  we  came  off  without  being  wrecked. 
My  brother  wrote  to  you  last  Tuesday  and  promised  to 
inform  you  of  my  undertaking,  but  that  was  a  day  of 
calm  delight  to  Thursday.  We  got  into  the  gallery ;  and 
by  twelve   o'clock,    were  tolerably  well   placed;    heard 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  43 

the  merchants^  tell  their  grievaaces  plainly  and  honestly. 
The  examinations  that  followed  were  tedions,  no  debates 
that  day ;  the  Duke  of  Argyle  spoke  once,  and  very 
agreeably,  the  house  was  not  up  till  eight.  I  went  home 
with  Lady  Westmorland  to  dinner.  Lord  Cobham"  talked 
over  the  business  of  the  day,  and  gave  me  more  entertain- 
ment than  the  whole  House  of  Lords  -.  that  thin,  decayed 
carcase  of  his  contains  a  spirit  that  is  surprizing. 

When  I  came  home  at  night,  I  found  two  letters 
from  Miss  Granville,  to  acquaint  me  with  Lord  W/s' 
going  to  be  married  to  Miss  H.,  that  they  were  all 
to  be  hurried  forthwith  to  Longleat,  to  settle  for  ever^ 
the  house  in  town  to  be  sold,  and  no  hopes  of  their 
coming  any  more  among  their  friends  in  this  part 
of  the  world.  You  cannot  imagine  the  distress,  fright, 
and  disappointment  of  poor  Miss  Gran,  upon  Grace's 
account ;  and  she  entreats  me  so  pressingly  to  come  to  her, 
that  I  go  next  Monday,  and  stay  till  Wednesday.  Old 
H.  is  a  cunning  man,  and  will  keep  the  Viscount  safe, 
if  once  he  has  caught  him;  his  numerous  family  will 
thrust  others  out  of  doors,  and  I  can't  say  the  prospect 
promises  welL  I  will  advise  them  to  the  best  of  my 
power,  but  Providence  will  do  better  for  them  than  all 


>  The  oppressive  oondact  of  the  Spanish  Gtovemment  towards  British  mer- 
chants, was  brought  before  the  House  of  Commons  by  letters  and  memorials, 
and  their  grievances  were  formally  stated  by  counsel  at  the  bar  of  the  House. 
The  result  was  a  declaration  of  war  against  Spain,  in  1739. 

*  Lieut-General  Sir  Richard  Temple,  Bart.,  was  raised  to  the  peerage  in 
1714,  as  Baton  Cobham,  and  in  1718  was  created  Yiscount  and  Baron  Ck>bham, 
in  d^Oudt  of  male  issuer  with  special  remainder  to  his  sister  Hester,  the  wife  of 
Richard  Grenville,  Esq.  Lord  Cobham  married  Anne,  daughter  of  Edmund 
Halsey,  Esq.  He  died  childless  in  1749,  and  the  Stow  estate,  with  the  title 
of  Viscount  and  Baron,  devolved  upon  his  sister,  who  was  in  the  same  year 
created  Countess  Temple. 

•  Thomas  Thynne,  2nd  Viscount  Weymouth,  was  only  twice  married. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


44  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

our  forecast,  and  as  you  say  it  is  the  only  dependance  that 
can  be  reKed  on :  however  human*  endeavours  are  allowed, 
and  more — they  are  required.  This  took  me  up  all 
Wednesday — ^I  wrote  her  a  volume  of  the  best  comfort 
and  advice  I  could  send  her,  dined  with  Sir  John 
Stanley  to  consult  about  them,  which  took  up  so  much 
of  the  day,  I  could  not  find  time  to  write  to  you, 
and  on  Thursday  morning  I  was  to  be  with  Lady  West- 
moreland by  ten,  which  I  punctually  was. 

Again  she  and  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury,  Mrs.  For- 
tescue,  and  myself  set  forward  for  Westminster,  and  got 
up  to  the  gallery-door  without  any  diflBculty.  There  were 
thirteen  ladies  more  that  came  with  the  same  intention. 
To  tell  you  all  the  particulars  of  our  provocations,  the  in- 
sults of  the  door-keepers,  and  our  unshaken  intrepidity, 
would  flourish  out  more  paper  than  a  single  frank  would 
contain,  but  we  bore  the  buffets  of  a  stinking  crowd  from 
half  an  hour  after  ten  till  five  in  the  afternoon,  with- 
out moving  an  inch  from  our  places,  only  see-sawing 
about  as  the  motion  of  the  multitude  forced  us.  At 
last  our  committee  resolved  to  adjourn  to  the  coffee- 
house of  the  Court  of  Bequests,  where  debates  began,  how 
we  were  to  proceed?  it  was  agreed  amongst  us  to 
address  Sir  Charles  Dalton^  for  admittance.  .  The  address 
was  presented,  and  an  answer  returned,  that  "  whilst  one 
lady  remained  in  the  passage  to  the  gallery,  the  door 
should  not  be  opened  for  the  members  of  the  House  of 
Conmions ;"  so  we  generously  gave  them  the  hberty  of 
taking  their  places.     As  soon  as  the  door  was  opened 


'  Maiy,  daughter  of  Lord  Henry  Cavendish,  and  wife  of  John,  7th  Earl  of 
Westmoreland. 
*  Sir  Charles  Dalton,  Gentleman  Usher  of  the  Black  Rod. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  45 

they  all  rushed  in,  and  we  followed;  some  of  them  had 
the  gallantry  to  give  lis  their  places,  and  with  violent 
squeezing,  and  such  a  resolution  as  hardly  was  ever 
met  with,  we  riggled  ourselves  into  seats.  I  think  that 
was  the  first  tune  I  wished  to  be  a  man — though  nothing 
less  than  a  peer.  The  Duke  of  Argyle  spoke  soon  after 
we  came  in,  but  before  that  my  Lord  Cholmondely 
moved  that  an  address  of  thanks  should  be  sent  to  the 
King  for  the  Convention;  the  minority  opposed  it 
gallantly.  My  Lord  Chesterfield  spoke  most  exquisitely 
well, — ^with  good  sense,  mt,  and  infinite  ynrit :  I  never 
was  so  well  entertained  in  my  life  as  with  his  speaking ! 
I  wished  you  there  for  that  hour,  though  I  had  suffered 
so  much  to  gam  the  entertainment. 

Everything  after  him  was  dull  and  heavy ;  much  cir- 
cnmfiaribus  stuff  was  talked  of  on  the  Court  side.  They 
might  have  sp^^ed  their  breath ;  their  convincing  argu- 
ment was  in  their  pockets— not  on  their  tongue :  they  had 
a  majority  of  twenty-one,  and  though  they  seemingly  con- 
quered, they  made  a  poor  figure  I  Am  I  not  a  furious 
politician  ?  But  enough  of  these  affairs,  those  of  fnend- 
ship  suit  my  nature  better,  where  the  struggles  that  arise 
are  from  very  different  principles  than  what  animate  cour- 
tiers and  politicians,  whose  selfish  views,  under  the  glare 
of  the  good  of  their  country,  so  often  fill  their  hearts 
with  a  train  of  evil  thoughts.  Oh !  how  happy  are  we, 
not  only  ourselves  to  be  free  from  these  engagements, 
but  to  have  no  friend  entangled  by  them !  This  mo- 
ment my  brother  has  brought  Mrs.  Lloyd  in ;  it  is  two 
o'clock.  I  walked  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland's  this 
morning,  breakfasted  with  her — came  back;  twelve 
miUions   of  impertinences.     Oh   for  the  banks  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


46  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Dove!  or  any  retreat  where  we  could  enjoy  each 
other's  company.  I  shall  be  very  glad  to  see  Barrow, 
and  will  serve  him  to  the  utmost  of  my  power :  I  admire 
his  generosity  to  the  Gwinnets.  You  may  tell  them  Lady 
Sun.  was  their  benefactress.  I  will  write  to  you  from 
Windsor.  What  a  strange  hasty  scrawl  is  this,  in  answer 
to  your  interesting  letter  I  Poor  Lady  Throck.  has  been 
in  the  utmost  danger,  and  her  child  is  dead !  but  Sir 
Bobert  writes  the  Duchess  of  Portland  word  that  he  hopes 
she  is  in  a  fair  way  of  doing  weU.  It  is  much  joy  and 
comfort  to  Bunny  and  myself  that  mama  is  better.  Our 
best  duty  and  wishes  attend  her. 

Yours  ever  and  ever. 


Mn,  Fendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  GnmviiU. 

Brook  Street^  26th  March,  1738-9- 

I  have  wrote  to  my  brother  and  enclosed  your  letter. 
Sir  John  Stanley's  groom  met  him  five  mile  beyond 
St.  Alban's  very  well.  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday 
were  tolerable  days  for  travelling,  though  sharp  and  cold. 
I  hope  he  has,  by  this  time,  forgot  his  toils  in  the 
enjoyment  of  his  farms  and  meadows.  I  must  have  a 
speaking-trumpet  that  will  convey  my  voice  very  far,  to 
be  heard  by  Will.  Stanley  if  I  should  ask  him  about 
Mrs.  Cull,  for  he  is  not  in  London ;  if  the  weather 
mends  I  think  my  mama  will  do  very  well  in  going  to 
Cranham ;  nothing  can  be  more  effectual  than  change  of 
air  for  such  a  cold — I  hope  in  God  it  will  have  the 
desired  effect.  The  weather  has  been  so  excessively  bad, 
and  is  still  so  pinching  cold,  that  no  constitution  is 
sturdy  enough  not  to  feel  bad  effects  from  it.     Sir  John 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  47 

Stanley  is  low,  and  complains  of  being  grown  weak  and 
faint.  He  has  had  the  toothache,  which  is  a  teazing  pain 
and  dejects  the  spirits  extremely:  when  the  wind 
changes,  and  the  sun  shines,  I  hope  all  these  complaints 
will  be  removed ;  but  till  then  I  don't  expect  they  should. 
I  dined  last  Sunday  with  Sir  John ;  yesterday  morning 
he  made  me  a  long  visit,  and  met  Mrs.  Eatty  Lloyd 
here,  who  lives  in  the  neighbourhood,  a  great  friend  of 
Lady  Westmorland's — a  smart  sensible  woman.  I  was 
engaged  with  my  crayons,  and  painted  whilst  they  talked 
the  world  over,  and  now  and  then  put  in  a  word  to  let 
them  know  I  had  my  ears  at  liberty  though  my  eyes 
were  employed :  that  double  entertainment  is  a  high 
regale  to  me,  but  it  comes  seldom  in  my  way. 

How  few  are  they  that  are  qualified  for  conversation ! 
for  if  it  runs  too  high  or  too  low  it  ceases  to  be  a  delight ; 
the  one  puts  the  attention  so  much  upon  the  stretch  that 
it  soon  tires  the  spirits — ^the  other  is  insupportable  after 
half-an-hour.  I  staid  at  home  the  rest  of  the  day,  eat 
my  morsel  like  a  hermit,  without  any  spectator  save  my 
faithful  Dapper.  After  dinner  Madam  Dashwood  made 
me  a  visit  for  an  hour  and  George  Jackson ;  in  the  even- 
ing came  Lady  Colladon,  and  we  had  an  uninterrupted 
tete  a-tete  of  three  hours. 

Mr.  Montagu  mends  very  slowly,  and  'tis  much  feared 
he  never  will  recover  the  use  of  his  leg — ^a  melancholy 
prospect  for  a  man  in  the  prime  of  his  life,  but  he  bears 
it  with  great  patience  and  cheerfulness.  Lady  Colladon 
has  promised  to  speak  to  Princess  Caroline  about  the 
Queen  of  Bohemia's  picture ;  I  have  heard  nothing  from 
Lady  Hertford,  did  Mrs.  Buncombe  write  to  her?  I 
long  to  know  how  you  determine  to  bestow  your  sweet 


Digitized  by 


Google 


48  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

person  when  my  mother  can  spare  you :  whilst  her  com- 
plaint continues  I  know  you  can't  be  spared.  Nothing 
could  have  hindered  my  coming  to  see  my  mother,  (not- 
withstanding the  badness  of  the  ways  and  weather,)  but 
knowing  she  had  you  with  her  whose  tender  affection 
would  think  of  everything  that  was  proper  to  done  for 
her.  My  brother  was  quite  uneasy  at  not  being  able  to 
make  her  a  visit,  but  ever  since  her  being  ill  he  has  been 
engaged  in  settling,  with  my  Lord  Gower  and  Lord 
Carteret,  that  part  of  the  Albemarle  estate  that  was  un- 
divided, and  has  been  obliged  to  meet  lawyers  at  his  own 
house  or  at  Stanley's  once  or  twice  a-week :  at  last  he 
has  been  forced  to  leave  it  undone  till  he  returns,  or  he 
would  have  run  the  hazard  of  losing  a  chap  for  his  lands, 
for  he  has  now  in  his  hands  about  two  hundred  pound 
a-year,  which  will  turn  to  bad  account  if  he  does  not 
settle  it, — thus  stands  the  state  of  his  affairs. 

I  had  a  kind  long  letter  from  Mrs.  F/ ;  but  alas !  'twas 
to  tell  me  she  does  not  come  to  town  this  year :  the 
young  squire  was  expected  last  night  at  Whitehall  at  the 
old  house,  where  he  is  to  be  one  fortnight  only.  I  have 
sent  for  the  girls  to  town — ^they  are  to  come  on  Thursday ; 
and  they  meet  him  at  dinner  on  Friday.  I  must  contrive 
to  make  up  a  set  at  whist,  and  I  will  take  a  box  one  day 
next  week  and  ask  him  to  be  of  the  party.  'Tis  unlucky 
my  brother's  being  out  of  town  at  this  time,  but  after  all 
Providence  will  do  better  than  we  can — there  rests  the 
anchor  of  hope. 

I  find  Barrow  is  an  honourable  man :  I  hope  I  shall 
see  him  again  before  he  goes  out  of  town.  I  believe  he  is 
now  at  Twickenham ;  I  wish  I  could  do  him  any  real 

>  Mrs.  Foley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  49 

service ;  when  I  see  Stanley  I  will  ask  him  how  such  a 
man  can  be  served  f  I  wrote  you  a  long  letter  last  post. 
I  write  to  you  by  this  because  on  Thursday  mornings  I 
have  not  an  hour  to  spare  even  to  you,  as  it  is  appro- 
priated to  Kellaway  and  Goupy,  and  by  Saturday  I  hope 
I  may  give  you  some  account  of  our  young  people.  "  Now 
Cupid  be  kind,"  &c. 

I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  Lady  Sarah  C. :  she  was 
in  the  height  of  felicity,  her  sister  was  with  her,  and 
her  eyes  are  ahnost  well.  I  feel  with  her  the  joy  of  seeing 
those  we  love  tenderly  well  and  happy.  Since  I  wrote  this, 
Dr.  Atwell  has  been  here :  I  have  spoken  about  young 
Newton's  having  St,  Mary's ;  he  says  he  has  spoken  to 
the  Bishop — it  cannot  be  done  for  him  for  the  Master 
of  Pembroke  has  thoughts  of  taking  it  himself;  but  says 
if  he  does,  he  will  make  it  so  well  worth  Mr.  Newton's 
officiating  as  curate  for  him  there,  that  it  will  be  better 
to  him  than  the  living,  as  he  will  be  obliged  to  quit 
Taunton  for  it.  The  Duke  of  Portland  has  just  brought 
me  the  Princess's  letter  for  Lord  Cornbury,*  and  a  few 
words  to  myself  which  I  shall  soon  acknowledge,  and  will 
be  her  faithfull  post  in  delivering  her  precious  letter  to 
her  much  honoured  Lord  Combury.  Dr.  Atwell  says 
Mrs.  Pit  told  him  you  "  would  not  thank  him  for  a  visit 
after  having  been  corrected  for  not  waiting  on  you/' 


'  "Lord  Combury/'  Henry  Hyde,  only  son  of  Henry  the  last  Earl  of 
Clarendon,  was  called  up  to  the  House  of  Peers,  by  the  style  of  Lord  Hyde, 
and  died  unmarried,  before  his  father,  at  Paris,  1753.  He  was  Pope's  Lord 
Combury,  the  same  to  whom  Bolingbroke  addressed  his  Letters  on  the  Study 
of  History f  and  to  whose  comedy  of  The  Mistakes  Walpole  wrote  the  "  Ad- 
vertisement," in  the  name  of  Mrs.  Porter,  the  actress.  Walpole  calls  him, 
"  This  amiable  and  disinterested  lord ;"  he  died  by  a  fall  from  his  horse.  He 
was  brother  of  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury* 

VOL.  II.  E 


Digitized  by 


Google 


50  LIFE  AND  CX)RRB6P0ND£NGE 

The  DuchetB  of  Portland  to  the  Lady  TT^rockmorionf  aJt  Westan^  near  OtUney, 

Bucks, 

Whitehall,  May  8th,  1789. 

What  shall  I  say  to  dear  Lady  Throckmorton  for  not 
complying  with  her  obliging  request  in  letting  her  know 
how  the  Kttle  boy  did ;  he  is  now,  thank  God,  perfectly 
well,  and  has  had  no  more  fits ;  I  hope  he  will  continue 
so.  I  flatter  myself  yon  recover  apace,  and  fancy  you 
will  soon  begin  your  rambles :  I  wish  they  were  to  end  in 
coming  to  London,  for  I  have  a  most  prodigious  desire 
to  see  you ;  and  except  I  can  be  so  happy  in  the  winter 
at  Bulstrode,  I  don't  know  when  I  shall,  for  I  shall  be 
kept  in  town  for  the  old  occasion  all  this  summer.  I 
am  very  much  obliged  to  Sir  Eobert  for  admonishing 
you  to  write  to  me ;  indeed  your  epistles  are  great  joys 
to  me,  and  you  are  very  sensible  of  the  hurry  I  live  in, 
that  it  is  not  always  in  my  power  to  do  what  I  like  best, 
or  you  would  have  been  epistolized  much  sooner,  and  I 
expressed  my  gratitude  for  your  kind  inquiry.  I  de- 
livered your  letters  to  Penny  and  Pipkin,  which  they 
were  both  very  happy  with,  and  design  writing  very  soon. 
I  see  them  as  often  as  I  possibly  can,  and  you  will  believe 
I  am  very  happy  when  I  do. 

I  have  just  received  the  most  obliging  of  letters  jGrom 
my  dearest  Colly,  which  makes  my  silence  appear  in- 
gratitude of  the  blackest  dye ;  but  I  hope  you  are  con- 
vinced of  my  affection  for  you,  and  know  me  too  well 
to  imagine  I  change  with  every  blast,  for  believe  me 
sincerely  attached  to  you,  and  I  wish  it  were  in  my 
power  to  show  my  affection  to  you  more  than  by 
words.  I  am  surprized  Penny  and  Pip  have  not  wrote  to 
you ;  I  shall  see  them  to-night  and  tell  them  your  kind 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  51 

remembrance ;  indeed,  my  dear  Colly,  we  often  talk  you 
over,  and  the  many  happy  hours  we  often  spent  in  your 
company,  and  heartily  wish  they  were  to  come  over 
again.  I  hear  Madame  Latouche  has  put  out  an 
apology  for  living  with  his  Ghrace,  and  declares  that 
''  love  was  the  predominant  and  hereditary  passion  of 
her  family  /'  I  wish  much  to  see  it.  Lady  Dorothy 
Boyle  and  Lord  Euston^  are  to  make  a  match.  Miss 
Pit  and  Lord  Barrington,"  they  say,  are  wedded,  but  I 
can  hardly  think  it,  for  Lord  Strange^  is  always  buzzing 
in  her  ear  and  dancing  with  her. 

I  will  tell  you  a  piece  of  news  you  will  be  glad  to 
hear,  and  that  is,  mama  has  made  me  a  present  of  her 
fine  emerald  drops.  Lady  Margaret  Bentinck*  is  come 
over  with  her  spouse,  so  we  have  nothing  going  forward 
but  feasting  from  morning  to  night,  which  I  am  quite 
sick  off,  and  heartily  wish  it  was  over.  I  must  now  go 
and  dress  for  a  feast  at  his  (Jrace  of  Kent's,  for  if  I  am 
not  in  time  the  little  old  man  will  have  no  mercy  upon 
those  stilts  of  his.  Adieu,  the  girls  are  very  well;  my 
Lord's  best  complements  attend  you — we  both  join  in 
the  same  to  Sir  Eobert.  Pray  when  you  write  to  your 
mama  assure  her  of  my  humble  service  and  best  wishes. 
Tours  most  faithfully  and  obediently. 


1  Qeorge  Barl  of  Enston,  eldest  son  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Grafton,  mar- 
ried in  1741,  Dorothy,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Burlington.  He  died 
without  iflsue,  in  July,  1747. 

•  William  Wildman,  2nd  Viscount  Barrington,  married  in  1740,  Mary, 
daughter  of  Heniy  Lovell,  Esq.,  a  relict  of  the  Hon.  Samuel  Grimston, . 

'  James  Lord  Stiange,  eldest  son  of  Edward  Stanley,  11th  Earl  of 
Derhy.  He  married  in  1747,  Lucy,  daughter  of  Hugh  Smith,  Esq.,  and  died 
in  June,  1771,  before  his  father. 

*  Margaret^  daughter  of  William  Earl  of  Cadogan,  married  Charles  John, 
Count  Bentinck. 

e2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


52  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Weston^  near  Otdney,  Bucks, 

Upper  Brook  Street,  15  May,  1739. 

My  dear  Lady  Throck.  so  kindly  expresses  a  desire 
to  hear  from  me,  that  I  should  be  most  ungratefiil  to 
omit  any  longer  my  acknowledgments  for  the  welcome 
favour  of  your  last  letter.  I  have  so  sincere  a  pleasure 
in  hearing  from  you  that  I  can't  help  wishing  it  could 
be  oftener  repeated ;  but  as  that  is  more  than  I  can  be 
gratified  in,  T  will  accept  of  your  favours  just  as  you  can 
conveniently  bestow  them,  and  be  thankful  to  have  any 
share  in  a  friendship  so  much  valued  and  desired  by  all 
who  know  you.  My  sister  is  with  me,  and  I  hope  will 
stay  a  month  longer ;  she  then  goes  with  my  brother 
into  Staffordshire.  If  you  should  then  be  at  Weston,  and 
there  is  a  possibility  of  her  making  you  a  visit,  she 
certainly  will.  My  brother  was  hurried  down  in  the 
country,  in  miserable  weather  through  dismal  roads,  two 
months'  ago,  but  returns  in  a  fortnight  to  fetch  my 
sister ;  he  has  so  great  a  desire  to  pay  his  respects  to 
your  Ladyship  and  Su:  Robert  that  I  am  sure  he  wiU  lose 
no  opportunity  he  can  make  use  of  of  giving  himself  that 
pleasure.^  My  sister  and  I,  in  our  tete-a-tetes,  often  delight 
ourselves  in  talking  of  our  amiable  CoUt/,  in  recollecting 
the  hours  we  have  passed  together,  adding  sincere  wishes 
for  their  renewal ! 

Is  London  so  very  odious  to  Sir  Eobert  and  his  fair 
lady  as  to  destroy  all  hopes  of  ever  seeing  you  here? 
Tou  are  both  misers :  you  each  lock  up  your  treasure, 
and  will  not  let  the  rest  of  the  world  partake  of  your 
happiness;  but  I  am  not  surprized  at  either  of  you, 
much  more   at  those   that  don't  know   how  to  value 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DELANY.  53 

or  enjoy  the  blessings  they  possess.  Our  well  beloved 
Duchess  is  very  well,  though  in  a  multiplying  way; 
she  looks  extremely  well,  and  is  good  and  lively  as 
ever,  truly  affectionate  and  constant  to  her  old  friends. 
She  has  fretted  excessively  at  having  occasioned  you  so 
much  uneasiness  about  the  little  marquis  by  her  being 
so  long  silent — the  children  are  all  well.  I  believe  she 
will  be  in  town  the  greatest  part  of  the  summer,  which, 
was  it  not  for  the  allay  of  what  occasions  it,  would  be 
g^^  joy  to  me ;  as  it  will  be  some  satisfaction  to  me  to 
be  near  her  when  she  is  confined  and  wants  company. 

T  propose  retiring  to  my  grotto  at  Northend  as  soon  as 
my  favourite  companion  leaves  me,  choosing  solitude 
rather  than  society  when  I  can't  have  those  I  like  best 
with  me.  With  infinite  pleasure  should  I  accept  of  your 
most  agreeable  invitation,  if  it  were  in  my  power  to 
comply  with  it,  but  I  am  under  an  engagement  to  spend 
all  the  time  I  can  spare  this  year  at  Northend,  except  a 
short  excursion  I  am  to  make  to  Windsor.  My  sister 
begs  to  know  where  your  warbler.  Miss  Birch,  lives,  that 
we  may  contrive  to  meet  before  our  retirement  into  the 
country.  I  live  in  hopes  you  will  mend  your  pace  in 
writing,  and  by  giving  me  proofe  of  your  inclination  to 
me,  confirm  me  if  possible  more  strictly. 

My  dear  Lady  Throck. 
Your  affectionate  and  faithful 

M.  Pen. 

Mine  and  my  sister's  best  compliments  attend  Sir 
Eobert. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCE 

Mr$.  Ann  OranvQU  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Weston^  near  Ouiney, 

Bucks. 

London,  25  May,  1739. 

That  person  must  ill  deserve  the  name  of  friend  who 
can  forget  a  thousand  acts  of  kindness  and  resent  one 
seaming  neglect !  No,  my  dear  Lady  Throck.  I  suffered  a 
great  deal  more  from  the  apprehension  of  your  being  iU, 
than  the  imagination  that  you  had  forgot  me,  for  I  be- 
lieve your  honest  heart  incapable  of  change ;  therefore  Sir 
Robert  will  find  upon  examination,  that  I  have  not  so  much 
merit  as  he  fancies.  However,  if  he  pursues  his  kind  inten- 
tion I  shall  be  much  obliged  to  him,  and  desire  no  better 
situation  than  to  be  near  the  most  agreeable  couple  in  the 
world. 

I  have  been  in  London  just  a  month,  found  my  sister, 
our  Duchess,  and  all  friends  well.  I  only  wait  my 
brother's  return  out  of  Staffordshire,  and  when  he  has 
dispatched  some  business  in  town  I  return  with  him 
for  the  rest  of  the  year  to  Calwich,  and  if  we  can  wait 
upon  our  agreeable  friends  at  Weston,  it  will  be  a  great 
satisfaction  to  us.  Lideed  my  dear  Colly,  I  do  most 
earnestly  wish  to  see  you,  as  does  Pen ;  but  alas !  I  am 
not  to  be  happy  in  her  company  this  year;  she  stays 
with  Sir  John  Stanley,  and  as  she  does  what  is  right,  I 
ought  to  be  contented ;  her  best  wishes  attend  you  and 
Sir  Robert,  I  join  in  all  your  rural  entertainments,  which 
are  infinitely  more  to  my  taste  than  courtly  pleasures. 

I  can't  give  you  much  account  of  what  passes  here,  be- 
cause I  attend  so  little  to  the  common  conversations  that 
the  news  makes  no  impression  upon  me ;  Miss  Campbell  is 
to  be  married  to-morrow  to  my  Lord  Bruce.  *  Her  father 

i  Married  in  June  1739,  the  Right  Hon.  Lord  Bruce,  to  Mibs  Campbell. — 
Loudon  Magazine, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANT.  65 

can  give  her  no  fortune;  sh^  is  very  pretty,  modest, 
well-behaved  and  just  eighteen,  }ias  two  thousand  a-year 
jointure,  and  four  hundred  pin-money :  they  say  he  is 
cross,  covetous,  and  threescore  year  old,  and  this  unsuit. 
able  match  is  the  admiration  of  the  old  and  the  envy  of  the 
young  1  For  my  part  I  pity  her,  for  if  she  has  any  notion 
of  social  pleasures  that  arise  from  true  esteem  and  sen- 
sible conversation,  how  miserable  must  she  be  !  and 
how  little  can  the  show  of  gold  and  equipages  make  up 
for  all  the  disagreeable  hours  she  passes  at  home. 

The  Parliament  is  still  very  busy  about  the  Spanish 
affidrs,  and  some  people  think  they  will  sit  all  the  summer. 

I  met  Mrs.  Birch  in  the  Park ;  was  rejoiced  to  see 
her.  She  comes  next  Wednesday,  and  then  I  will  in- 
dulge in  talking  of  you ;  an  ever  pleasing  theme  to  your 
affectionate 

Prospect. 

Pray  write  to  me  sooner  than  usual,  and  assure  Sir 
Eobert  of  my  respects.  Bindon  is  at  Oxford ;  I  had  a 
witty  letter  from  her  last  post. 


Mrs,  EUtob  to  Miti  OranvUle. 

EveBham,  Augt.  4th,  1739. 

My  dear  friend's  letter  afforded  me  so  many  pleasures, 
that  I  am  at  a  loss  where  to  begin  to  return  my 
thanks;  the  delightful  account  you  gave  me  of  your 
sweet  retirement,  not  only  made  me  wish  myself  with 
you,  but  even  fancy  myself  to  be  there ;  my  imagi^ 
nation  in  an  instant  conveyed  me  into  Sir  John's  library, 
where    I   found  your   most  valuable    sister    and    self 


Digitized  by 


Google 


56  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

perusing  a  well  chosen  book,  from  whence  I  thought  I 
waited  on  you  both  into  the  pleasant  garden  you  describe, 
and  had  the  advantage  of  receiving  your  ingenious  sen- 
timents on  the  subject  you  had'  been  reading.  These 
agreeable  thoughts  prevented  for  some  time  my  reflecting 
as  I  ought  on  my  vast  obligation  to  you  for  so  kindly 
communicating  to  me  the  acceptable  news  of  the  health 
of  our  most  excellent  Duke  and  Duchess,  and  their  dear 
little  family,  and  with  their  favourable  thoughts  concern- 
ing me — an  honour  far  greater  than  I  deserve,  and  must 
be  acknowledged  by  me  to  be  entirely  owing  to  their 
great  humanily,  and  to  the  good-offices  of  your  worthy 
sister  and  self,  to  whom  my  most  dutiful  respects  are 
due.  Tou  will  no  doubt  know  as  soon  as  anybody 
when  her  Grace  is  brought  to  bed;  I  shall  be  much 
obliged  to  you  if  you  will  be  so  good  as  to  let  me  know, 
that  I  may  take  the  first  opportunity  to  congratulate 
her  on  that  happy  occasion. 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  my  dear  and  valuable 
friend,  Mrs.  Chapon,  twice  since  I  have  been  here,  who, 
notwithstanding  the  great  hurry  she  was  in,  was  so  good 
as  to  spend  a  night  with  me  each  time,  and  am  not  without 
hopes  I  shall  be  so  happy  as  to  see  her  again  soon,  though 
she  is  removed  farther  from  me.  The  last  time  she  was 
here,  I  had  an  exceeding  pleasure,  though  not  without 
some  concern,  at  hearing  a  long  and  warm  dispute  between 
that  charming  woman,  and  Mr.  Ben.  Seward,  on  some 
methodistical  notions,  in  which  it  was  by  better  judges 
than  myself  agreed  that  the  female  antagonist  had 
miich  *the  advantage  over  him;  it  is  surprizing  to  see 
how  indefatigable  he  is  in  endeavouring  to  gain  proselytes, 
and  likewise  what  success  he  meets  with !     Pray  God  if 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  57 

it  be  his  good  pleasure  to  put  a  stop  to  these  miserable 
delusions,  for  the  consequence,  in  my  opinion,  seems  to  be 
very  terrible.  I  am  quite  ashamed  of  thip  tedious  epistle, 
and  will  therefore  only  assure  you  that  I  am,  to  dear  Mrs. 
Pendanres  and  yourself,  a 

Most  gratefiil  and  aflfectionate  servant, 

Elizabeth  Elstob. 

I  had  just  finished  this,  when  I  had  the  favour  of 
yours,  which  transported  me  inexpressibly  to  hear  that 
her  Grace  was  safely  brought  to  bed,  that  she  had  so 
good  a  time,  and  that  she  and  the  little  lady^  are  both 
so  well,  for  which  I  return  my  thanks  to  Almighty  God, 
for  this  joyful  news.  I  begin  to  be  impatient  to  be 
doing  my  duty,  and  shall  therefore  heartily  rejoice  when 
that  happy  time  comes.  In  the  meantime,  the  best  and 
sincerest  wishes  that  can  proceed  from  a  most  grateful 
heart,  attend  the  two  incomparable  sisters  from  their 
Most  affectionate  and  obedient  servant, 

Elizabeth  Elstob. 


Ifrs.  Ann  OranviUe  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton,  at  Scarborough,  in 
Yorkshire, 

Northend,  15  August,  1739. 

For  fear  my  dear  Colly  should  see  in  the  newspapers 
an  account  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland  and  be  alarmed, 
I  write  to  let  you  know  really  how  she  is,  though  I  grieve 
to  say  not  as  well  as  we  wish  her  to  be.  Doctor  Sand's 
says  there  is  no  danger,  but  she  has  fever  on  still,  is  re- 
duced, extremely  low  and  weak,  and  had  a  blister  put  on 

'  Lady  Margaret  Gavendial}  Bentinck  was  bom  in  July,  1739. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


58  LIFE  AND  CX)RRESPONDBNCE 

to-day.  Sands  desired  yesterday  that  another  physician 
might  be  called  in,  but  she  would  not  consent,  and  indeed 
I  believe  her  very  safe  in  his  hands  as  far  as  human  skill 
can  reach.  We  go  to  town  to-morrow  to  see  her,  and 
you  shall  not  fail  of  a  particular  account  from  me  every 
post  till  she  mends.  I  know  what  yotir  tender  heart  feels 
for  so  valuable  and  good  a  friend,  and  I  feel  for  you,  for  my- 
self and  for  everybody  that  is  happy  in  her  friendship ;  but 
imagine  nothing  worse  than  what  I  tell  you,  for  I  am 
quite  just  in  my  relation ;  it  is  what  my  brother  brought 
us  this  morning,  and  he  had  it  from  Mrs.  Farran.  I 
long  to  hear  that  the  waters  agree  with  you  and  Sir 
Eobert ;  pray  let  me  have  that  pleasure  soon.  Did  you  re- 
ceive my  letter  by  Gleg  ? 

Sir  John  Stanley  is  come  home  very  well  from  Tun- 
bridge;  the  world  is  so  divided  I  can  send  you  no 
news,  and  the  weather  is  ao  hot  it  dissolves  all  one's 
senses.  I  hear  Bindon  is  in  town,  but  I  can't  tell 
where  nor  how  to  get  at  her.  I  must  hear  ofbener  from 
you  than  I  have  done  of  late,  or  I  shall  never  attempt 
writing  you  a  long  letter  again.  Sir  Eobert  Throck- 
morton's generosity  to  the  Bath  hospital  makes  a  very  fine 
figure  in  the  newspapers.  My  brother  and  sister  desire 
their  particular  compliments  to  your  Ladyship  and  Sir 
Robert.  We  shall  all  be  happy  when  it  is  in  our  power  to 
wait  upon  you  at  Weston. 


Digrtized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  59 


MiaB  Ann  OranviUe  to  fhe  Lady  l%rockmorton,  <U  Soarbonugk  «n 
YorJcBhire, 

Northend,  18  August,  1739. 

How  hard  it  is  to  be  obliged  to  give  pain  where  one 
wishes  only  to  communicate  joy  and  happiness !  But  'tis 
the  will  of  heaven,  my  dearest  Colly,  that  we  must  resign 
our  most  amiable  Duchess !  My  sister  and  I  were  at 
Whitehall  yesterday  morning.  The  Duchess's  fever  was 
then  as  high  as  ever,  nor  has  there  been  any  intermission 
for  thirty  days.  Doctor  Sands  then  insisted  upon  a  con- 
sultation ;  Brocksome  was  at  Windsor ;  Mead  came,  and 
only  confirmed  Doctor  Sands'  prescription,  which  was  a 
blister  upon  each  arrrij  and  a  vomit  I  We  were  obliged  to 
come  back  to  Northend,  which  was  a  great  grief  to  us.  Last 
night  we  heard  she  was  worse  ;  this  morning  Sands  gives 
her  quite  over,  and  poor  Aschard  sent  us  the  mournful 
message  that  they  "  only  easpected  the  great  changed*  How 
many  are  involved  in  this  misfortune !  My  poor  Penny 
is  inconsolable.  I  won't  pretend  to  mention  my  own 
sufferings,  my  dear  friend,  for  I  should  only  increase 
yours,  and  your  part  of  the  affliction  is  a  great  aggravation 
to  mine.  The  poor  Duke  is  truly  sensible  of  his  ir- 
reparable loss ;  I  promised  him  to  write  to  you  to-day. 
But  can  add  no  more,  but  that  I  am  in  every  circumstance 
of  mind  or  body. 

Your  faithfal  and  affectionate 
Anna. 

Penny's  best  wishes  attend  you  and  Sir  Eobert,  to 
whom  I  beg  mine.  Pray  write  one  line  to  me  imme- 
diately, for  I  shall  be  very  uneasy  to  know  how  you  do ; 
and  if  possible,  keep  up  your  spirits ;  you  have  a  good 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60  LIFE  AND  COllRESPONDENCE 

comforter,  that  I  am  sure  will  do  every  thing  in  his  power 
to  alleviate  your  sorrow. 

Saturday  night. 

I  am  this  moment  come  from  Whitehall.  The  Duchess 
is  better,  and  they  have  great  hopes  of  her  being  able  to 
struggle  through  it,  though  her  fever  is  not  abated.  I 
hope  in  God,  I  shall  be  able  to  send  you  better  news  next 
post! 

Miss  Ann  OranmUe  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Soarhoroughf 
Yorkshire, 

Northend,  22d  August,  1739. 

With  the  greatest  joy  imaginable  I  can  assure  my 
dear  Lady  Throck.  that  our  dear  Duchess  is  out  of  all 
danger !  She  began  to  mend  on  Saturday  night,  her  fever 
abated,  Sunday  she  was  much  better,  and  yesterday 
morning  my  sister  and  I  was  at  Whitehall,  and  had  the 
agreeable  account  from  both  the  doctors  that  there 
was  "  nothing  more  to  fear ;"  present  weakness  must  be 
expected  after  so  dangerous  a  distemper.  You  may  guess 
the  happiness  this  recovery  gives  to  poor  Lord  and 
Lady  Oxford,  who  were  in  the  deapest  affliction ;  and  the 
Duke  has  shewed,  himself  very  sensible  of  the  blessing  he 
enjoys  in  so  excellent  a  creature  ;  poor  Achard  has  been 
almost  distracted.  But  I  will  dwell  no  longer  upon 
melancholy  reflections,  since  the  bad  is  past :  we  will 
only  think  of  future  happiness,  and  let  me  intreat  you, 
my  dear  Colly,  to  come  to  town,  that  you  may  have 
Doctor  Sands'  advice  in  case  you  should  want  it,  for 
he  certainly  has  been  the  only  human  means  of  the 
Duchess's  recovery.  He  has  watched  her  constantly, 
and  never  went  to  bed  for  four  nights ;  and  has  more 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DBLANY.  '  61 

skill,  tenderness,  and  caution  than  I  have  ever  seen  in 
anybody.  For  his  own  justification  he  would  have  Doctor 
Mead,  but  he  only  confirmed  what  the  other  prescribed ; 
so  Sands  ought  to  have  the  whole  credit  of  a  cure. 
And  now  be  quite  easy,  and  when  you  don't  hear, 
depend  upon  the  Duchess's  continuing  well ;  should  any 
alteration  happen  I  will  certainly  let  you  know :  I 
now  expect  to  hear  firom  you ;  teU  me  what  you  do,  and 
how  your  fine  Duchess  is  liked.  Is  not  Doctor  Shaw 
your  physician  ?  he  is  esteemed  a  very  good  one,  and  I 
am  sure  was  of  great  service  to  some  friends  of  mine  (the 
Foley's) :  I  wish  he  could  prevail  upon  them  to  go  to 
Scarborough  again.  My  brother  and  sister's  compli- 
ments attend  you,  and  all  our  good  wishes  to  Sir  Eobert. 
Have  you  heard  Mr.  Kellaway  upon  the  harpsichord  ?  he 
is  at  Scarborough  and  a  most  delightful  player,  very  little 
inferior  to  Handel.  Adieu,  my  dearest  Colly,  believe  me 
ever  yours 

Most  faithfiilly, 
A.  G. 


Mr9,  Ann  OranviOe  to  Lady  Throckmorton, 

26  Sept.  1739. 

Though  I  have  but  a  fortnight  to  stay  in  town,  and 
every  moment  cut  out,  yet  I  must  thank  my  dearest 
Lady  Throck.  for  the  vast  pleasure  of  her  letter ;  every 
favour  of  yours  is  dear  to  me,  and  though  I  obey  your 
commands  of  silence,  I  shall  place  it  in  my  heart,  and 
think  of  what  you  will  not  allow  me  to  speak.  The  des- 
cription of  your  Sunday  evening's  entertainment  diverted 
me  excesively,  and  our  Duchess,  with  whom  I  received 


Digitized  by 


Google 


62  LIFE  AND  OOBUBSPONDENCE 

your  letter.  We  agreed  that  the  Duke  of  Leeds^  had  great 
reason  to  be  discontented  that  you  should  be  so  fond  of 
your  "own  Sir  Robert,"  a  man  so  different  from  the 
generality  of  the  world,  who  has  been  married  ahnost 
two  years,  and  can  now  find  out  more  perfections  in  his 
fair  Colly  than  when  he  waa  first  in  love,  and  she  stiU 
thinks  him  the  most  amiable  of  mankind  I  these  are  not 
sentiments  to  carry  to  Scarborough  and  Bath !  You  will 
draw  the  ridicule  of  the  whole  world  upon  you  for  being 
so  particular,  for  unless  it  is  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of 
Portland,  there  is  not  a  couple  in  London  but  g^ow 
happily  indifferent  in  six  months  !  and  if  they  drag  the 
chain  as  many  years,  what  joy  it  is  to  part  1  A  present  in- 
stance is  the  Duchess  of  Manchester ;  her  Duke  is  dyiug,^ 
and  do  you  think  she'U  spoil  her  eyes  with  crying? 
No,  no ;  she  has  better  employment  for  them  ! 

People  are  marrying  like  mad :  Bir  Eobert  Clifton  and 
Lady  Loom ;'  Lord  Harrington*  and  Lady  Anne  Mon- 
tague ;•  Mr,  Leveson,  and  Sir  Eichard  Wrottesley,'  a  Staf- 

1  Thomas,  4ih  Duke  of  Leeds. 

>  William,  2nd  Duke  of  Manchester,  died  21st  October,  1739.  His  wife 
was  Isabella,  daughter  of  John  Duke  of  Montagu.  She  married,  2ndly, 
Edward  Hussey,  Esq.,  of  Ireland,  who  assumed  the  name  of  Montagu,  and 
was  created  Esurl  of  Beaulieu. 

»  Sir  Robert  Clifton  rnarried  twice ;  1st  to  Lady  Francis  Coote,  and  2ndly 
to  Miss  Lombe,  eldest  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Alderman  Sir  Thomas  Lombe, 
Knt. 

*  William  Stanhope,  Lord  Harrington,  married  Anne,  daughter  and  heir  of 
Colonel  Edward  Griffith,  by  whom  he  had  two  sons,  (twins,)  bom  December 
18,  1719,  when  their  mother  died.  Lord  Harrington  does  not  appear  to  have 
married  a  second  time.  In  1742  he  was  created  Earl  of  Harrington,  and  died 
December  8, 1756,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  only  surviving  son,  William, 
2nd  Earl  of  Harrington* 

*  Lady  Anne  Montague,  daughter  of  the  1st  Duke  of  Manchester,  died  un- 
married. 

*  The  Rev.  Sir  Richard  Wrottesley  married  Lady  Mary  Gower,  daughter  of 
John,  1st  Earl  Grower. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS,  DELANT.  63 

fordshire  knight  of  18 ;  adaughter  of  my  LoidDarimouth's^ 
to  I  don't  know  who ;  and  Lady  Bell  Bantinck'  to  Mr. 
Monck  (an  Irish  gentleman),  nephew  to  Sir  John  Stanley ; 
but  it  is  at  present  a  secret ;  bat  I  am  sure  you  will  be 
glad  to  hear  our  dear  Ihichess  is  likely  to  be  eased  of  a 
troublesome  companion ;  thank  God  she  mends  every  day, 
and  except  a  weakness  in  her  knees,  has  not  one  symptom 
of  illness  left.  We  talJk  of  our  most  amiable  Colly  and 
wish  for  her  every  day,  I  hope  this  will  find  you  per- 
fectly well,  and  arrived  at  Weston  with  your  own  Sir 
Bobert,  to  whom  I  desire  my  best  wishes ;  my  sister's 
ever  attend  you  both,  and  my  brother's  compliments. 
Bindon  was  in  town ;  I  saw  her  once,  but  she  is  not  in 
spirits  and  looks  old.  Had  I  time  I  could  say  a  thousand 
things  to  you,  but  they  would  not  express  how  much 
I  am 

My  dear  Lady  Throck's 

Most  faithful  and  obliged 

Anna. 

It  grieves  me  not  to  see  sweet  singing  Birch,  but  she 
is  such  a  journey  from  me ;  I  have  no  coach  and  nobody 
wiU  give  me  one,  so  must  be  contented,  but  not  pleased. 

I  brought  my  letter  to  our  Ihichess  to  know  if  she 
had  any  commands ;  her  good  wishes  ever  attend  you, 
and  she  desires  to  hear  from  you  very  soon;  she 
mends  every  day,  aqad  I  hope  will  soon  be  able  to  visit 
Alexander. 


>  Lady  Anne  Legge,  youngest  daughter  of  William,  Ist  Earl  of  Dartmouth, 
nuurried,  in  1739,  Sir  Lister  Holte,  and  died  the  following  year. 

*  Lady  Anne  Isabella  Bentinck,  daughter  of  Henry,  Ist  Duke  of  Portland, 
mairied,  November  8, 1739,  Henxy  Monck,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  Duchess  of  Bedford^  was  brought  to  bed  to-day  of 
a  son ;  how  happy  does  it  make  her  I 


Ute  Duchess  </  PorUand  to  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Weston,  near  Otdney, 

Bucks. 

Whitehall,  Nov.  1, 1739. 

Indeed,  my  dear  Colly,  I  grew  quite  impatient  for  the 
pleasure  of  a  letter  from  you,  and  begun  to  fear  you  was 
out  of  order,  and  was  going  to  write  to  you  when  I  was 
blessed  with  yours.  I  long  more  impatiently  to  see  you 
than  ever  I  did  in  my  life ;  and  yet  your  absense  ever  was 
most  cruel  to  me,  but  I  can  never  be  thankful  enough 
for  your  kind  concern  for  me ;  believe  me  I  am  most 
grateful,  and  my  heart  will  be  ever  the  same.  You  say 
you  have  been  out  of  order,  but  don't  say  what  was  the 
occasion,  which  I  take  a  little  amiss ;  but  I  had  the 
pleasure  of  Lady  Montagues  company,  who  informed  me. 
I  wish,  my  dearest  friend,  you  would  lye-in  in  London, 
and  be  under  Doctor  Sandys'  care ;  I  have  more  reason 
to  speak  well  of  him  then  ever  I  had  in  my  life,  for  it  is 
entirely  to  his  great  skill  and  care  that  I  am  recovered  ; 
and  is  it  not  the  same,  whether  you  come  before  you  are 
brought  to  bed  or  after?  I  am  sure  Sir  Eobert  and  your 
dear  mama  would  be  of  my  mind  if  they  knew  his  merit 
as  well  as  I  do.  If  you  have  any  commissions  in  this  part 
of  the  world,  employ  me,  and  I  will  perform  them  with 
pleasure  and  to  the  best  of  my  capacity.  I  sincerely  share 
in  your  joy  of  Mrs.  Collingwood's  being  with  you  ;  I  love 


^  Gertrade,  eldest  daughter  of  John,  Ist  Earl  Grower,  married,  in  April  1737, 
John,  4:th  Dukaof  Bedford,  and  had  a  son,  Francis  Marquis  of  Tavistock,  who 
died  before  his  father  in  1767,  and  a  daughter,  Caroline,  married  to  George, 
3rd  Duke  of  Marlborough. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  65 

her  much,  and  beg  my  very  best  compliments  to  her  and 
Sir  Eobert.  Do  consider  of  what  I  have  said  to  you,  and 
come  to  town ;  I  must  not  write  more  for  fear  of  my 
eyes ;  but  I  am  very  well,  only  weak,  and  whilst  I  have 
any  being, 

Tour  most  faithful,  affectionate  friend  and  servant. 

My  Lord  is  your  slave,  and  likewise  Frere  Bona- 
venture.     All  .the  Twopennys^  are  very  well. 

Write  to  me  soon,  my  dear.  Once  more  adieu.  Heaven 
guard  you ! 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton^  at  Weston  ^  near  Oulney^  Bucks, 

Brook  Street,  28  Novr,  1739. 

It  is  an  easy  matter  to  resolve  on  doing  what  is  right, 
but  to  perform  it  is  a  diflSculty  not  easily  overcome.  This 
has  been  my  case  in  regard  to  my  dear  Lady  Throck., 
who  has  shared  much  more  of  my  thoughts  than  perhaps 
she  will  do  me  the  justice  to  believe.  I  don't  know  if 
any  of  my  friends  that  have  the  honour  of  corresponding 
with  your  Ladyship,  have  told  you  of  the  bad  state  of  my 
eyes.  They  were  for  above  a  month  excessively  bad, — so 
violently  inflamed,  that  I  have  been  obliged  to  go  through 
abundance  of  physical  discipline..  It  punished  me  ex- 
tremely for  the  time,  but  it  allows  me  now  the  pleasure  of 
addressing  myself  to  my  much  esteemed  Colly.  Though 
I  am  a  guilty  wretch  and  cannot  entirely  justify  myself 
having  been  so  long  unthankftil  for  your  very  obliging 
and  welcome  letter,  I  must  put  you  in  mind  of  your  own 
dilatory  proceedings,  and  must  add,  had  I  hopes  of  a 
quick  return  to  my  letters,  nothing  could  so  effectually 

*  "  The  Twopenny 8,**  the  children. 
VOL.  II.  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


66  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

spur  me  on.  Our  dear  charming  Duchess,  (for  whom 
I  know  by  my  own  heart  you  have  sufifered  infinite 
anxiety,)  is  now  as  well  as  you  can  wish  to  have  her — 
good  looks,  good  spirits,  and  every  g6od  belonging  to 
her  that  mortal  woman  can  be  possessed  of.  We  talk 
of  you  very  often,  and  lament  our  being  so  entirely  de- 
prived of  your  company.  Though  we  are  sensible  of  your 
happiness  at  home,  we  cannot  help  envying  Sir  Robert 
for  being  the  sole  possessor  of  our  agreeable  friend,  and 
though  you  are  so  good  as  to  say  you  have  still  the  same 
love  for  your  friends  as  you  had  when  your  heart  was  at 
liberty,  how  is  it  possible  not  to  wish  to  see  and  converse 
with  you  ?  are  there  no  hopes  of  our  being  so  happy,  or 
is  the  mcked  town  of  London  so  hateful  to  you  both, 
that  we  must  despair  of  seeing  you  in  it  ? 

As  to  my  having  the  happiness  of  waiting  on  you 
at  Weston,  it  is  a  beautiful  prospect  at  a  vast  distance, 
mountains  and  rivers  interpose,  and  I  can  only  see  it  in 
perspective.  In  the  spring  I  shall  go  to  Gloucester,  from 
thence  into  Herefordshire,  and  so  on  to  Staffordshire.  To 
have  known  and  liked  you  so  well,  and  to  be  denied  the 
pleasure  of  meeting,  is  what  1  must  sincerely  regret.  I  am 
told  you  are  not  very  well — I  hope  it  is  only  an  illness  that 
a  few  months  will  cure ;  I  can't  but  wish  you  in  the  best 
hands  at  that  time.  As  for  news  I  know  of  none  :  war  is 
talked  of  in  all  companies,  and  the  ladies  and  toupees  talk 
as  smartly  about  it  as  any  blustering  captain  of  them  all, 
but  my  disposition  always  inclines  me  to  wish  for  peace. 
I  tremble  at  the  thoughts  of  a  battle,  and  of  the  many  lives 
hazarded  for  our  iU  conduct  and  ambition, — but  this  is 
being  a  mere  stupid  woman!    The  concerts  begin  next 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  67 

Saturday  at  the  Haymarket.^  Caristini  sings,  Peschetti 
composes  ;  the  house  is  made  up  into  little  boxes,  like  the 
playhouses  abroad ;  Lord  Middlesex  is  the  chief  under- 
taker, and  I  believe  it  will  prove  to  his  cost,  for  concerts 
unU  not  do.  I  hear  no  news ;  if  I  did  I  should  most  will- 
ingly prolong  my  visit.  My  sister  is  at  Gloucester,  and 
my  spirits  consequently  not  very  flowing.  I  congratulate 
you  on  the  joy  of  seeing  Mrs.  Collingwood,  and  beg  my 
compliments  to  her  and  to  Sir  Eobert  Throckmorton. 
I  am  dear  Lady  Throck.'s 
most  affectionate  &  faithfiil, 

M.  Pendarves. 

Postscript  in  Duchess  of  Portland's  handwriting. 
I  hope  my  dear  Colly  has  received  my  epistle,  which 
was  ftdl  of  good  wishes  for  you.  I  hope  you  will  take 
my  advice  and  come  to  town.  My  best  compliments  to 
your  good  mama  and  Sir  Eobert.  Write  to  me  soon. 
Ever  yours. 


Mn,  Elstob*  to  Miss  OranvtUe. 

Whitehall,  Xtmaa  Day,  1739. 

I  am  certain  my  dear  Miss  Granville  will  not  be  dis- 
pleased to  be  made  acquainted  from  my  own  hand,  though 
imperfectly,  with  the  inexpressible  pleasure  and  satis- 
faction I  at  present  enjoy.     Should  I  presume  or  pretend 


^  December  1st,  1739,  an  Italian  serenata,  called  Diana  and  Endymion,  was 
performed  at  the  little  theatre  in  the  Haymarket.  Ihe  composer  was  not 
named,  but  it  appears  from  four  of  the*  airs  which  were  printed  by  Walsh 
that  it  was  composed  by  Pescetti,  and  that  Carestini  and  Mnscovita  performed 
the  principal  parts. — Bumeffs  History  of  Music, 

*  Mrs.  Elstob  went  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland  in  1739,  between  the  months 
of  September  and  December. 

F   2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


68  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

to  enumerate  all  her  Grace  the  Duchess  of  Portland's 
perfections,  you  who  are  so  good  a  judge  and  are  so  well 
acquainted  with  them,  might  with  good  reason  think 
me  extremely  impertinent.  I  wiU  therefore  only  tell 
you,  that  I  am  every  day  more  and  more  charmed  with 
her,  an  J  notwithstanding  your  excellent  sister  and  self 
had,  before  I  saw  her,  given  me  a  most  glorious  character 
of  her,  I  find  every  time  I  have  the  honour  to  wait  on 
her,  which  is  pretty  often,  though  to  me  not  often  enough, 
there  is  something  in  her  still  more  charming  which  in- 
creases my  admiration  and  improves  myself.  The  children 
by  their  sweet  endearing  temper  plainly  discover  whose 
offspring  they  are ;  they  are  very  fond  of  me,  and  even 
the  little  Marquis  desires  his  nurse  to  bring  him  to  *'  Te^ft,*' 
as  he  calls  me.  I  am  highly  satisfied  with  their  capacities, 
and  don't  doubt  but  in  a  little  time  there  will  be  many 
testimonies  given  by  their  visible  improvement  that  they 
are  very  good ;  the  whole  family  is  very  civil  to  me,  so 
that  in  all  respects  you  will  believe  that  I  am  very 
happy. 

After  having  given  you  an  account  of  my  happiness  in 
this  noble  family,  I  must  beg  leave  to  say  something  of 
the  incomparable  author  of  it,  the  not  to  be  paral- 
lelled Mrs.  Pendarves  ;  of  whose  merits  before  I  had  the 
honour  personally  to  know  her  I  had  entertained  very 
exalted  ideas,  which  to  my  great  surprize  upon  a  nearer 
acquaintance  fell  very  short  of  what  she  deserves.  In  few 
words,  I  think  her  one  of  the  finest  women  in  the  world 
in  every  respect,  (without  doing  any  injustice  to  the 
most  accomplished  of  hef  sex,)  and  I  not  only  love 
her,  but  admire  her.  I  beg  you  will  be  so  good  as  to 
make  the  proper  compliments  for   the    season  accept- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  69 

able  to  Mrs.  Granville,  dear  Mrs.  Chapon,  and  yourself 
from 

Yonr  most.grateM  and  affectionate  servant, 
Elizabeth  Elstob. 

I  told  her  Ghuce  one  day  last  week  I  designed  to  write  to 
yon,  when  she  bid  me  tell  yon  she  wonld  do  the  same  very 
soon ;  and  about  the  same  time  Lady  Wallingford  desired 
me  to  tell  you  she  had  ''  great  fault  to  find  mth  you^ 

The  Uttle  charmers  send  you  their  service. 


The  Hoti^  Grace  QranmUe,  (afterwards  Mrs,  Foley,)  to  Mrs,  Ann  OranvtUe, 

Windsor,  January  y.  Ist. 

[Before  or  in  the  year  1740.] 

Your  letter,  dear  cousin,  gave  me  great  pleasure,  and  I 
was  rejoiced  at  its  being  dated  from  Bath,  where  I  have 
vdshed  yon  extremely  ever  since  I  heard  of  your  being 
out  of  order.  I  am  glad  Mrs.  Foley^  prevailed  with  you 
to  make  her  a  visit,  which  gives  you  an  opportunity  of 
establishing  your  health,  and  of  obliging  a  friend  which  I 
know  is  great  deUght  .to  you.  We  are  at  present  very 
happy  in  Mrs.  Pendarves*  company ;  we  talk  of  you,  and 
wish  it  were  possible  you  could  be  with  us,  it  would 
add  much  to  our  satisfaction.  I  believe  it  will  be  a  great 
while  before  we  go  to  town ;  it's  no  sort  of  grievance 
to  me,  for  I  think  the  country  has  charms  all  the  year 
round,  and  when  one  is  with  people  one  likes  aU  places 
are  agreeable. 

'  Mrs.  Foley  (bom  Unitt). 


Digitized  by 


Google 


70  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

My  sisters  desire  their  best  compliments  to  you ;  my 
sister  Gxanville^  joins  with  me  in  the  same  to  Mrs. 
Foley :  her  acquaintance  will  make  us  very  happy,  and  we 
are  much  obliged  to  her  for  being  desirous  of  ours.  My 
brother*  was  here  about  a  fortnight  ago,  but  is  again  re- 
turned to  Long  Leat ;  he  rambles  so  much  about,  that  I 
must  beg  youll  not  enclose  your  letters  to  him,  for  I  am 
always  too  impatient  for  them,  to  be  delayed  that  plea- 
sure longer  than  I  ought,  I  entreat  you,  dear  cousin, 
not  to  be  so  ceremonious  as  to  write  to  me  oftener  than 
is  convenient  to  you,  for  I  had  rather  be  deprived  of  a 
very  sincere  satisfaction  than  that  you  should  do  anything 
that  might  be  the  least  prejudical  to  your  health,  which 
is  most  truly  wished  you  by,  dear  Miss  Granville, 
Tour  most  affectionate  and  faithful, 

G.  Granville.^ 

Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Ann  Granville. 

22nd  Jan.,  1739-40. 

After  such  a  day  of  confiision  and  fatigue  as  yesterday, 
my  dearest  sister  I  am  sure  is  too  reasonable  to  expect 
my  head  should  be  composed  enough  to  write  a  foHo,  so 
I  very  prudently,  knowing  my  own  strength,  undertake 
but  a  quarto. 

Lady  Dysart,  Miss  Dashwood,  and  I  went  together. 
My  clothes  you  know.      I  was  curled,  powdered,  and 


*  **  Afy  sister  OranviUe"  The  Honourable  Ann  Granville,  eldest  daughter 
of  George  Lord  Lansdown, 

«  "  Afy  brother,"*    Lord  Weymouth. 

■  The  Honourable  Grace  Granville,  daughter  of  Lord  Lansdowne,  married 
Thomas  Foley,  Esq.,  (afterwards  created  Baron  Foley,)  on  the  28th  of  March, 
1740. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  71  . 

decked  with  silver  ribbon,  and  was  told  by  critics  in  the 
art  of  dress  that  I  was  well  dressed.  Lady  Dysart  was 
in  scarlet  damask  gown,  facings  and  robings  embroidered 
with  gold  and  colours,  her  petticoat  white  satin,  all 
covered  with  embroidery  of  the  same  sort,  very  fine  and 
handsome,  but  her  gaiety  was  all  external,  for  at  her  heart 
she  is  the  most  wretched  virtuous  woman  that  I  know ! 
The  gentle  Dash^  was  in  blue  damask,  the  picture  of 
modesty,  and  looked  excessively  pretty.  She  danced,  and 
was  only  just  so  much  out  of  countenance  as  to  show  she 
had  no  apmiorh  of  her  own  performance,  but  courage 
enough  to  dance  very  well.  The  Princess's  clothes  were 
white  satin  the  petticoat,  robings,  and  facings  covered 
with  a  rich  gold  net,  and  upon  that  flowers  in  their 
natural  coFours  embroidered,  her  head  crowned  with 
jewels ;  and  her  behaviour,  (as  it  always  is,)  affable  and 
obliging  to  everybody.  The  Prince  was  in  old  clothes 
and  not  well ;  he  was  obliged  to  go  away  very  early. 
The  Duchess  of  Bedford's  clothes  were  the  most  remark- 
ably fine,  though  finery  was  so  common  it  was  hardly 
distinguished,  and  my  little  pretension  to  it,  you  may 
imagine,  was  easily  eclipsed  by  such  superior  bright- 
ness. The  Duchess  of  Bedford's  petticoat  was  green 
paduasoy,  embroidered  very  richly  with  gold  and  silver 
and  a  few  colours  ;  the  pattern  was  festoons  of  shells, 
coral,  com,  corn-flowers,  and  sea-weeds ;  everything  in 
different  works  of  gold  and  silver  except  the  flowers  and 
coral,  the  body  of  the  gown  white  satin,  with  a  mosaic 
pattern  of  gold  facings,  robings  and  train  the  same  of 
the  petticoat ;  there  was  abundance  of  embroidery,  and 


'  The  genUe  Dash,'*    Mrs.  Bashwood. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


72  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

many  people  in  gowns  and  petticoats  of  different  colours. 
The  men  were  as  fine  as  the  ladies,  but  we  had  no  Lord 
Clanricard.^  My  Lord  Baltimore  was  in  light  browa 
and  silver,  his  coat  lined  quite  throughout  with  ermine. 
His  lady  looked  like  2b  frightened  owl,  her  locks  strutted 
out  and  most  furiously  greased,  or  rather  gummed  and 
powdered  -^  Lady  Percival  very  fine  in  white  satin,  em- 
broidered with  gold  and  silver ;  Lady  Carteret  in  a 
feuille  mort  uncut  velvet,  trimmed  with  silver  flounces — 
grave  and  handsome ;  Miss  Carteret  a  flowered  silk  with 
coloured  flowers,  and  glittering  with  all  her  mama's 
jewels ;  she  danced  with  a  very  good  air,  her  person  is 
really  fine ;  but  my  Lady  Carteret's  agreeable  countenance 
and  easy  air  pleased  me  more  than  younger  beauties. 
Miss  Tortescue  looked  Hke  Cleopatra  in  her  bloom ;  I 
thought  her  the  handsomest  woman  at  the  ball ;  she  was 
in  pink  and  silver,  and  very  well  drest.  The  Duchess  of 
Queensbury  was  remarkably  fine  for  her,  had  powder,  and 
was  tolerably  dressed ;  she  had  put  on  all  her  best  airs,  and 
certainly  shewed  she  had  stilt  a  right  to  be  called  **  beaxji- 
tifuV  My  Lord  Carlisle,  his  lady,  son,  and  two  daugh- 
ters,* were  all  excessively  fine.  But  I  grow  sick  of  the 
word  ''fine  "  and  aU  its  appurtenances,  and  I  am  sure 


'  John  Smith,  11th  Earl  of  Clanricarde,  succeeded  his  father  in  1726.  He 
married  Hester,  youngest  daughter  of  Sir  Henry  Vincent,  Bart.,  and  died 
April  21, 1782,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  eldest  son,  Henry,  who  in  1785 
was  created  Marquess  of  Clanricarde. 

'  This  is  the  first  allusion  made  to  the  wife  of  Lord  Baltimore,  and  one  of 
the  very  few  instances  when  Mrs.  Pendarves  permitted  herself  to  joke  on 
the  absence  of  personal  charms. 

■  Henry,  4:th  Earl  of  Carlisle,  married  in  1717,  Lady  Prances  Spencer, 
daughter  of  Charles,  3rd  Earl  of  Sund^land.  Their  two  daughters  were — Ara- 
bella, married  to  Jonathan  Cope,  Esq. ;  Diana,  married  to  Thomas  Duncombe, 
Esq.    The  sons  died  in  their  father's  lifetime. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  73 

you  have  enough  of  it.  The  ball  began  at  nine,  and  I 
left  them  smartly  engaged  at  the  hour  of  twelve ;  Lady 
Dysart  was  obliged  to  go  between  ten  and  eleven  to  her 
surly  ill-bred  Lord,  and  Dash  and  I  were  glad  to  walk 
off  before  the  company  broke  up,  by  which  means  we 
got  easily  to  our  chairs. 


Extracts  from  two  Letters  of  Miss  Robinson  {afterwards  Mrs,  Montagu)  to  hei' 

Sister. 

Whitehall. 

On  Tuesday  I  was  at  Lady  North's,  to  see  all  the 
fine  clothes  that  were  made  for  the  Birthday.  Lady 
Scarborough  was  richly  dressed,  the  Duchess  of  Bedford 
very  fine,  Mrs.  Spencer  had  a  white  velvet,  but  the  Du- 
chess of  Queensbury  was  such  as  should  be  seen  at 
"courts,  and  feasts^  and  high  solemnities,  where  most 
may  wonder  at  the  workmanship;^^  her  clothes  were 
embroidered  upon  white  satin,  with  vine  leaves  and 
convolvolus's,  and  rose-buds,  shaded  after  nature ;  but 
she,  in  herself j  was  so  far  beyond  the  master-piece  of  art 
that  one  could  hardly  look  at  her  clothes — allowing  for 
her  age  /  never  saw  so  beautiful  a  creature. 

Miss  Bobiason  again  writes : — 

Whitehall,  1740. 

We  had  company  at  dinner  on  Monday,,  and  in  the  after- 
noon I  went  to  Lord  Oxford's  ball,  at  Mary-le-bone.  It 
was  tjeri/  agreeable ;  I  will  give  you  the  list  of  company  as 
they  danced.  The  Duchess  and  Lord  Foley,  the  Duke 
and  Mrs.  Pendarves,  Lord  Dupplin  and  Dash,  Lord  George 


Digitized  by 


Google 


74  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE. 

and  Fidget/  Lord  Howard  and  Miss  Caesar,  Mr.  Ghran- 
ville  and  Miss  Tatton,  Mr.  Hay  and  another  Miss  CaBsar. 
The  partners  were  chosen  by  their  fans,  bnt  with  a  little 
supercherie  in  the  case.     I  believe  one  of  our  dancers 

failed,  so  our  worthy  consin.  Sir  T was  invited  and 

came ;    but  when  he  had  drawn  Miss  's  fan,  he 

would  not  dance  with  her ;  but  Mr.  Hay,  who  (as  the 
more  canonical  diversion)  had  chosen  cards,  danced  with 
the  poor  forsaken  lady.  The  knight  bore  the  roast  with 
great  fortitude,  and,  to  make  amends,  promises  his  neg- 
lected fair  a  hall  at  his  house. 


Mrs,  Ann  QranvUle  to  tJie  Lady  Throckmortony  at  Weston,  fiear  Ottlney, 

Bucks. 

Gloucester,  7tli  Febry.,  1739-40. 

A  very  disagreable  succession  of  colds  upon  myself  and 
friends  has  prevented  my  returning  dearest  Lady  Throck. 
thanks  for  her  last  favour.  I  always  rejoice  to  hear  from 
you,  as  I  should  much  more  to  see  you,  and  grieve  to  think 
how  long  it  is  since  I  was  so  happy,  and  hope  this  new 
year  will  be  more  fortunate  to  me  than  the  last ;  though 
I  am  sure  if  I  were  never  to  see  you  again  I  should 
always  love  you,  because  I  think  you  faithftd  and  sincere. 
I  should  have  began  my  letter  with  the  wishes  usual 
upon  the  season,  but  I  feel  my  heart  as  zealous  for  the 
good  of  my  friends  in  every  month  of  the  year  as  Janu- 
ary, and  beg  you  will  beUeve  my  wishes  ceaseless  for 
your  happiness  and  your  '*  oim  Sir  JRoberfs"  and  that  you 
may  continue  each  others  as  long  as  you  have  the  capa- 
city of  loving,  and  that  I  believe  will  be  the  last  sense 
that  leaves  you. 

»  "  Fidget,"  herself. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  75 

I  have  a  question  to  ask  you,  my  dearest  Kitty,  that 
requires  all  your  secrecy  and  prudence,  (which  I  depend 
upon,)  and  for  your  truth  I  cannot  doubt  it ;  therefore 
without  any  preamble  I  desire  you  will  inform  me  what 
Sir  Bobert's  real  opinion  is  of  Mr.  Dewes  aad  your's,  if 
you  know  him.  There  is  a  person  he  is  recommended  to, 
but  she  is  quite  a  stranger  to  him  and  is  my  friend,  and 
therefore  I  make  an  inquiry  about  him,  but  I  must  entreat 
that  not  a  word  of  it  be  mentioned  to  anybody,  because 
the  thing  is  an  entire  secret.  The  person  I  speak  of  has 
no  notion  of  happiness  in  a  married  life,  but  what  must 
proceed  from  an  equaiitt/  of  sentiments  and  mutual  good 
opinion;  and  therefore  she  would  be  glad  to  know  if 
Mr.  D —  has  agreeable  conversation,  generous  principles, 
and  is  not  a  lawyer  in  his  manners.  I  remember  Sir 
Bobert  told  me  something  about  him  at  the  Bath,  but  I 
have  foi^ot  what  ?  Once  more,  my  dear  friend,  be  secret 
and  never  by  word,  look,  or  gesture  discover  what  I 
have  said  to  you :  when  I  am  allowed  to  say  more  I  will ; 
and  answer  my  letter  as  soon  as  you  can.  Don't  enclose 
your  letter  to  the  Duke,  but  send  it  directly  to  me  at 
Gloucester  by  way  of  London,  and  let  me  know  your 
direction.  I  rejoice  Mrs.  CoUingwood  is  well,  and  beg 
my  compliments  to  her.  Are  you  not  all  froze  to  icicles  ? 
There  never  was  known  such  weather,  but  I  hope  you 
preserve  a  warm  comer  in  your  heart  for  her  who  is 
ever, 

My  dear  Lady  Throck/s 

Most  faithfrd  affectionate, 
Nanct. 

P.S.- — Our  dear  Duchess  is  so  well  that  she  frolics  at 
Frost  fair,  and  does  all  sorts  of  merry  pranks.  How  does 


Digitized  by 


Google 


76  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

music  flourish  in  your  household?  with  me,  aks  !  it  dies. 
What  is  become  of  the  merry  skeleton  Mr.  Watkins  ? 

I  mourn  the  loss  of  your  old  servant ;  if  you  hear  of 
a  proper  place  for  the  young  woman  I  mentioned  to  you, 
I  am  sure  you  will  not  forget  her. 

The  above  letter  of  Ann  Granville  to  Lafly  Throckmorton  is 
another  curious  instance  of  the  way  matches  were  arranged  a  hun- 
dred and  twenty  years  ago,  and  how  gentlemen  were  assisted  by 
being  "  recommended  "  to  the  lady  of  their  fancy  by  a  mutual  friend, 
before  they  were  personally  made  known  to  her.  It  appears  that 
such  a  friend  had  recommended  Mr.  Dewes  to  the  favourable  con- 
flideration  of  Mrs.  Ann  Granville,  upon  which  she  wrote  to  her 
confidant  and  correspondent,  Lady  Throckmorton,  to  know  her 
opinion,  and  that  of  Sir  Bobert,  of  the  individual  named ;  very 
discreetly  speaking  of  herself  as  her  own  *'  friend." 


Mrs.  Ann  OranvUle  to  the  Lady  Throckmorton,  at  Weston  Underwood,  near 
Otdney,  Bucks, 

Gloucester,  20  Feb.  1739-40 

I  rejoice  to  hear  by  your  letter,  my  dearest  Lady 
Throck.,  that  you  are  well  again,  though  you  don't  tell  me 
of  what  you  have  lain  in,  whether  poetical  fancy's  lively 
imaginations,  or  a  little  infant  foil  of  blooming  graces — I 
hope  the  last,  but  as  children  are  precarious  blessings 
I  am  afraid  to  be  too  particular  in  my  inquiries.  In  hopes 
of  your  gratifying  my  curiosity  I  will  satisfy  yours,  by 
telling  you  the  guess  was  right,  I  am  sure  my  friend 
thinks  herself  excessively  obliged  for  the  warmth  and 
goodness  you  express  for  her  happiness ;  in  every  condi- 
tion of  life  your  friendship  must  be  a  vast  increase  of  it, 
or  alleviate  any  misery  Providence  shall  please  to  in- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS,  DELAKY.  77 

flict  upon  her.  The  inquiries  Sir  Eobert  would  be  so  good 
to  make  will  not  now  signify,  because  the  parties  are  to 
meet  in  about  a  fortnight  to  see  if  they  like  well  enough 
on  each  side  (for  at  present  they  are  strangers)  to  permit 
any  procedure  in  the  affair,  and  then  friends  will  be  con- 
sulted, and  they  will  consider  all  particulars.  But  my 
friend  was  in  hopes  that  he  Uved  near  you  in  Buckingham- 
shire, and  indeed  that  would  be  a  great  inducement  to 
her  to  listen  to  it,  for  she  would  be  most  happy  to  settle  in 
your  neighbourhood,  for  she  loves  the  charming  Kitty, 
and  admires  "  your  own  Sir  Robert  "  more  than  she  can 
express.  I  shew  the  confidence  I  have  in  yeur  secrecy 
and  truth  by  speaking  so  freely  of  what  is  at  present  un- 
known to  all  the  world  but  two  people :  how  it  proceeds 
you  shall  hear.  My  friend  thinks  a  chez  nous  with  a 
man  of  sense  and  worth  is  preferable  to'  the  unsettled 
life  she  now  leads,  and  being  continually  divided  in  her 
heart  what  friend  to  remain  with ;  for  while  she  is  with  one 
the  other  wants  her,  and  makes  a  perpetual  uneasiness 
in  her  mind.  Tour  advice  will  always  be  of  service  and 
pleasure  to  her ;  but  she  can  never  expect  so  much  happi- 
ness as  you  wish  her,  because  she  is  not  qualified  to  give 
eo  much.  I  hope  Sir  Robert  is  quite  well  again.  I  beg 
my  compliments  to  him  and  Mrs.  Collingwood.  I  am 
ashamed  to  send  you  a  letter  of  so  little  entertainment,  but 
I  have  really  a  bad  cold ;  an  hours  conversation  with  you 
would  be  infinite  delight  to,  my  dearest  Lady  Throck- 
morton, Your  most  obliged  and  affectionate, 

Nancy. 

Let  me  hear  from  you  soon,  and  don't  mention  to 
Pen  when  you  write  the  subject  of  our  present  corres- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


78  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

spondence.  Don't  you  think  their  balls  at  Whitehall  are 
pretty  things  ?  Our  dear  Duchess  continues  very  well. 
K  Sir  Robert  is  not  well  you  must  come  to  Bath  this 
spring.  By  these  blots  you  will  certainly  believe  me 
entete,  but  indeed  I  am  not. 

From  the  injunction  not  to  mention  to  Mrs.  Pendarves  the 
meeting  arranged  for  Mr.  Dewes  to  be  presented  to  Ann  Granville, 
it  is  evident  that  Mrs.  Pendarves  was  NOT  the  "mutual  friend" 
who  recommended  Mr.  Dewes,  but  it  might  possibly  have  been 
Mr.  Granville,  as  it  is  hardly  to  be  supposed  that  any  one  less  nearly 
related  and  of  less  influence  would  have  induced  Ann  Granville 
to  keep  this  Secret  from  her  sister,  and  he  would  naturally  expect 
Mrs.  Pendarves's  advice  must  be  an^'-matrimonial. 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Ann  OranvUkj  at  Gloucester, 

25tb  Febniary,  1789-40. 

After  my  desponding  letter,  I  ought  to  write  to  you 
in  my  joy,  and  I  have  much  more  to  tell  you  about 
our  lovers  than  either  time  or  eyes  will  allow  me  to 
write.  But  first,  in  my  brother's  name  and  my  own, 
I  must  thank  our  dear  good  mama  for  her  kind 
present  of  good  things,  and  you  for  yours.  Tour 
account  of  her  is  not  right,  but  we  hope  in  God  that 
as  soon  as  the  sharp  winds  and  ice  soften,  her  com- 
plaints wiU  melt  away.  There  is  no  such  thing  in 
London  as  fish,  or  she  had  had  some  long  ago,  in  hopes 
that  a  new  dish  might  tempt  her  to  eat.  I  was  very 
much  pleased  at  your  submitting  to  be  let  blood;  I 
should  have  done  the  same  fiad  I  time,  but  now  I  am 
so  much  better  I  don't  want  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  79 

Yesterday  the  lover^  dined  here,  and  went  through 
the  travels  of  Hercules  before  he  could  come  to  his 
Omphale,  for  he  was  obliged  to  piy  away  above  £20,000 
in  the  morning,  and  was  in  every  comer  of  the  town ; 
but  he  came  to  us  at  four ;  I  don't  know  which  looked 
most  modest  of  the  two,  and  both  behaved  very  pro- 
perly. After  diimer  and  coffee  we  left  them  alone,  and 
he  made  a  declaration  of  his  passion,  and  said  everything 
that  was  proper ;  Miss  Grace  ^  is  perfectly  well  pleased 
with  his  behaviour.  Mrs.  P.*  made  the  sisters  a  visit  in 
the  morning,  in  the  afternoon  I  sent  Miss  Granville*  to 
Lady  Wa*.  ball  as  my  deputy,  and  went  with  the  bride 
elect  to  Mr.  Foley's.  She  played  at  whisk  with  father, 
lover,  and  sister,  whilst  Madam  and  I  had  a  tete-a-tete  to 
our  mutual  satisfaction ;  we  all  wish  for  you  every  mo- 
ment. To-day  we  dine  at  Mr.  Foley's — to  morrow  all 
dine  with  me;  the  young  man  goes  out  of  town  on 
Monday^  and  stays  three  weeks,  but  'tis  unavoidable. 

I  am  now  at  our  new  ally*s ;  everything  goes  as  our 
hearts  can  wish,  and  truly  for  so  fair  a  prospect,  Cupid 
and  his  hearts  may  well  be  accepted  without  fearing  the 
lurking  chain.  The  devise,  the  verses,  and  the  letter  are 
excessively  pretty. 

•  Mr.  Foley. 

'  ''  Mitt  Grace." — Grace  Granville,  daughter  of  Greorge  Lord  Lansdown. 

•  *'MrB.  Foley,"  bom  Unitt,  step-mother  to  Mr.  Foley,  *'the  lover''  of 
Grace  Granville. 

•  '^Min  OranviUe.'*    The  Honourable  Anne 'Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


80  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Ann  OranviUe, 

Brook  Street,  29  March,  1739-40. 

This  moment  we  are  returned  from  Audley  Chapel, 
where  we  have  been  witness  of  the  union  of  two  people^ 
that  seem  made  for  the  happiness  of  each  other.  It  has 
at  last  been  concluded  in  so  great  a  hurry^  that  I  hardly 
think  I  am  awake,  but  fear  I  shall  start  and  rub  my  eyes, 
as  out  of  a  dream,  before  I  can  finish  my  letter.  The  writ- 
ings were  signed  this  morning,  and  at  twelve  all  the  com- 
pany assem  bled  in  the  vestry.  Lord  Foley  and  my  brother 
were  the  bridemen ;  Miss  Granville  and  our  Miss  Foley  the 
bridemaids.  My  Lord's  sister  is  not  well,  and  can't  come 
amongst  us ;  the  bride  and  bridegroom  look  modest  but 
well  pleased.  Lord  Weymouth  gave  her  away ;  at  eight 
all  the  company  meet  at  the  Bedford  Head  Tavern,  where 
my  Lord  Weymouth  gives  a  very  fine  supper^  there  is  to 
be  the  harper,  and  we  are  to  play  at  cards.  Lord  Wey. 
Sir  John  Stanley,  the  bride  and  bridegroom,  Miss  Gran- 
ville and  my  brother  dine  with  me,  that  is  with  my  brother, 
for  he  gives  the  dinner,  which  is  a  very  handsome  one. 
I  think  I  have  told  you  abundance,  considering  the  en- 
gagements of  the  day.  At  night  Gran  and  I  put  the 
bride  to  bed  at  her  father's  house,^  she  has  behaved  herself 
excessively  well,  and  so  has  he  in  every  particular.  They 
go  out  of  town  to-morrow  morning,  and  propose  being  at 

1  The  Honourable  Grace  Granville,  daughter  of  George  Lord  Lansdown,  mar- 
ried Tho.  Foley,  of  Stoke  Edith,  Esq.,  in  the  county  of  Hereford  ;  and  on  the 
death  of  Lord  Foley,  1766,  his  estates  were  inherited  by  his  cousin  above  men- 
tioned, and  tha  title,  by  a  new  creation,  continued  to  him. 

2  "  7»  so  great  a  hurry. *"  Mr.  Foley  proposed  on  24th  Febmary,  and  was 
married  29th  March,  but  the  match  was  evidently  arranged  by  friends  before 
they  met,  only  leaving  them  freedom  of  decision  afterwards. 

■  "  Iler/atJwr^s  house J'^    George  Lord  Lansdowne. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  81 

Gloucester  on  Tuesday  night  or  Wednesday  noon.  I 
shall  envy  them  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  and  my  dear 
mama.  Tour  new  cousin^  very  readily  and  thankfdlly 
accepts  of  her  kind  invitation ;  I  hope  next  Tuesday  to 
be  able  to  send  you  a  composed  letter.  Now,  I  can  only 
tell  you  I  saw  our  dear  Duchess  yesterday,  which  was  a 
great  satisfaction,  as  I  have  of  late  had  but  few  opportu- 
nities.    My  company  call  me. 

Adieu,  yours  ever. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Ann  QranvUh, 

22  April,  1740. 

Your  letter  to  my  brother  has  cheered  my  spirits  a 
good  deal ;  I  think  Mr.  Dewes  behaves  himself  like  a 
man  of  sense,  and  with  a  regard  for  you  that  must  re- 
commend him  to  the  favour  of  all  your  friends.  My 
brother  and  myself  will  receive  him  with  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure  as  soon  as  his  business  permits  him  to  come  to 
us,  which  I  find  will  not  be  this  week,  and  I  can't  see 
any  obstacle  to  prevent  the  proceeding  of  this  affair.  As 
soon  as  we  have  met,  and  that  he  has  settled  with  my 
brother,  then  we  may  proceed  to  particulars,  buying 
wedding  clothes,  and  determining  where  the  ceremony  is 
to  be.  Miss  Sutton  has  got  the  small-pox,  but,  thank 
God !  in  all  appearance  she  will  have  it  favourably ;  I 
should  not  have  told  you  now,  but  suppose  Mrs.  Gibbs 
may  have  an  account,  and  as  you  love  the  dear  little  girl, 
I  was  afraid  you  might  be  frightened  to  have  the  account 
from  other  hands ;  yesterday  was  the  second  day,  Dr.  Shaw 
is  her  physician,  and  she  has  no  one  bad  symptom.  It 
will  be  a  great  blessing  if  she  recovers  to  have  it  over. 

•  "  Your  new  cousin."    Mr.  Foley. 
VOL.  II.  G 


Digitized  by 


Google 


82  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Sir  Robert  and  my  Lady  Sunderland  are  gone  to  Mr. 
Sutton's  house  in  Audley  Street,  and  keep  up  their  spirits 
very  well,  Mrs.  Tichbome  is  chief  nurse.  I  own  I  am 
surprized  Mrs.  Pulteney  does  not  undertake  the  charge, 
who  nursed  three  of  her  own  daughters  so  successfully, 
and  is  more  to  be  depended  upon  than  Bess,  who  is 
ignorant  and  conceited.  The  newspapers  say  Sir  Francis 
Child*  is  dead — I  fear  it  is  true ;  Mrs.  Carey  told  me  one 
day  last  week  that  he  lay  dangerously  ill.  What  riche.^ 
flow  in  on  Sam  Child,  who  has  not  a  heart  to  enjoy  it ! 
and  how  many  fine  things  that  he  does  not  understand 
the  worth  of  I 

Last  Saturday  I  went  a  most  notable  expedition.  I  told 
you  it  was  to  be,  and  designed  you  an  elaborate  descrip- 
tion of  our  performance ;  but  my  head  is  not  clear 
enough  for  such  a  task.  Our  company  you  know :  we 
sat  out,  two  hackney-coaches  full,  from  Whitehall  at  ten. 
Our  first  show  was  the  tvild  beasts  in  Covent  Garden ; 
from  thence  to  St.  Bartholomew's  Hospital — the  staircase 
painted  by  Hogarth,  the  two  subjects  the  Good  Samaritan 
and  the  Impotent  Man ;  from  thence  to  Faulkner's,  the 
famous  lapidary,  where  we  saw  abundance  of  fine  things, 
and  the  manner  of  cutting  and  polishing  pebbles,  &c. ; 
then  to  Surgeons'  Hall  to  see  the  famous  picture  of 
Holbein's  of  Harry  the  Eighth,  with  above  a  dozen 
figures  in  it  all  portraits;  then  to  the  Tower  and 
Mint — the  assaying  of  the  gold  and  silver  is  very  curious ; 
saw  lionSj  porcupines,  &c.,  armour  and  arms  in  abun- 
dance ;  from  thence  to  Pontack's  to  a  very  good  dinner  ; 


>  April,  1740,  died,  Sir  Francia  Child,  Knight,  President  of  Christ's  Hos- 
pital, and  Knight  of  the  Shire  for  Middlesex.  He  was  Lord  Mayor  in  the  year 
1732. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  83 

and    then    proceeded  to    the  round   church   in  Stocks 
Market — a  most  beautifiil  building. 

This  is  the  first  letter  preserved  from  Mrs.  Pendarves  in  which 
there  is  any  allusion  to  Mr.  Dewes.  Her  previous  letter,  on  the  29th 
of  March,  did  not  mention  him  in  any  way,  and  it  must  have  been 
within  the  twenty-one  subsequent  days  that  she  was  informed  of 
his  proposal  to  Ann  Granville,  and  of  her  intention  of  accepting 
him.  The  letters  of  Mrs.  Pendarves  not  having  been  preserved 
on  this  occasion,  leads  to  the  inference  that  (if  not  hostile)  she  was 
not  very  favourable  to  his  suit ;  and  in  the  present  letter  the  sen- 
tences in  regard  to  him  are  so  few  and  measured,  that  it  affords  a 
confirmation  of  the  probable  fiict  that  she  did  not  think  of  her 
sister's  marrying  him  with  satisfaction;  and  although  too  honest 
not  to  give  Mr.  Dewes  the  commendation  which  she  believed  he 
deserved,  yet  that  she  could  not  bring  herself  to  enlarge  upon  the 
subject,  but  was  glad  to  make  it  as  short  as  possible,  and  to  fill  her 
letter  with  other  indifferent  subjects.  It  must  also  be  remarked 
that  Mr.  Dewes  was  apparently  only  known  to  Mrs.  Pendarves  by 
report  It  is  moreover  evident  that  Mr.  Granville  was  the  person 
to  whom  the  principal  communications  were  made  in  relation  to  this 
marriage. 

Smith  says,  in  has  V Antiquarian  Bamble,"  that  ''in  Christ 
CShurch  Passage,  leading  fix)m  Newgate  Street  to  Christ  Church, 
nearest  to  Bagnio  Court,  stood  the  oi'dinary  of  the  once  famous 
Pontackj  probably  the  first  house  for  genteel  accommodation  in 
eating  known  in  the  metropolis.  It  was  opened  by  a  person  of  this 
name,  soon  afler  the  great  Bevolution  in  1688,  and  remained  till 
about  the  year  1780,  since  which  the  site  has  been  occupied  by 
the  new  vestry.  This  house  was  called  Pontack's,  firom  its  being 
the  sign  of  Mr.  Pontack,  who  was  a  president  of  the  Parliament 
of  Bordeaux,  and  from  whom  also  the  best  French  clarets  derived 
their  name.  This  was  the  first  public  place  where  persons  could 
bespeak  a  dinner  from  four  or  five  shillings  a  head  to  a  guinea." 
The  Stocks  Market  was  a  fine  market  for  fi*uits,  roots,  and  herbs. 

Stow  states,  that  Henry  Wallis,  Lord  Mayor  in  1282,  caused 

g2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


84  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

divers  houses  to  be  built  towards  the.maintcnanee  of  the  bridge  in 
a  void  place,  almost  in  the  middle  of  the  city,  where  had  formerly- 
stood  a  pair  of  stocks  for  the  punishment  of  offenders,  and  appointed 
near  them  a  market-place  for  fish  and  flesh,  which  took  its  name 
from  the  stocks  once  placed  there  and  was  called  Stochs' -market' 
In  1322,  17  Edw.  II.,  a  decree  was  made  that  none  should  sell 
fish  or  flesh  but  in  the  public  markets  of  the  city,  which  were 
then  but  four  besides  this,  and  then  this  market  was  fanned  at 
46/.  13«.  Ad.  per  ann.  From  this  time  the  market  grew  bigger, 
and  other  houses  were  built  about  it,  insomuch  that  in  the  year 
1543,  there  were  so  many  stalls  and  chambers  in  and  about  it  as 
were  let  at  82?.  3«.  per  ann.  At  the  conduit  in  this  market  was 
erected  a  statue  of  King  Charles  II.  in  armour,  with  his  head  un- 
covered, all  carved  in  marble  upon  a  large  and  lofty  pedestal, 
eighteen  foot  high,  represented  trampling  on  an  enemy  with  his 
horse's  feet ;  the  conduit  is  enriched  with  his  arms  within  a  com- 
partment o{  fishes,  and  finely  cut  in  stone.  "  Here,"  says  Pennant, 
•*  stood  the  famous  equestrian  statue  erected  in  honour  of  Charles  II. 
by  his  most  loyal  subject,  Sir  Robert  Viner,  Lord  Mayor."  The 
statue  was  removed  in  1738,  when  the  present  Mansion-House  was 
built  on  what  was  formerly  the  Stocks'  Market.  Behind  the 
Mansion-House  is  the  church  of  St.  Stephen's  Walbrook,  the  chef- 
d'oeuvre  of  Sir  Christopher  Wren. 

In  allusion  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland's  expedition  with  Mrs. 

Pendarves  to  see  the  City  sights,  Mrs.  Donellan  writes  to  Miss 

Robinson  as  follows —  ^ 

London,  April,  1740. 

"  Since  my  last  I  passed  a  most  agreeable  day  with 
your  friend  and  mine.  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Port- 
land proposed  a  jaunt  into  the  City,  to  see  City  shows, 
and  were  so  obliging  as  to  ask  me  (with  Mrs.  Pendarves) 
to  be  of  the  party.  We  were  four  men,  four  women ; 
oiir  fourth  woman  was  Lady  Wallingford,  whom  I  never 
saw  before,  but  she  seems  good-humoured  and  civil ; 
our  four  men,  the  Duke,  Lord  Dupplin,  Mr.  Achai'd,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  85 

Doctor  Shaw/  all  new  to  me.  We  set  out  at  ten  in  two 
hackney  coaches,  and  stopped  at  emi^thing  tTiat  had  a 
lunne,  between  us  and  the  Tower,  going  and  coming,  and 
dined  at  a  City  tavern.  I  am  not  apt  to  fall  in  easily 
with  strangers ;  but  there  was  such  an  agreeable  freedom 
in  the  whole  company,  and  especially  in  the  amiable  Du- 
chess, that  I  never  spent  a  more  agreeable  day.  For  our 
dessert  the  Duchess  and  I  had  a  conversation  concerning 
you,  of  more  flavour  than  the  finest  fruit ;  I  won't  tell 
you  what  we  said,  but  that  we  agreed  in  our  opinions." 


Mrs,  Elstoh  to  Mrs,  Ann  GranvtHe. 

Whitehall,  May  6th,  1740. 

I  have  nothing  to  say  for  myself,  my  dear  Miss  Gran- 
ville on  account  of  long  silence,  but  a  repetition  of  what 
I  told  you  in  my  last,  that  my  dear  little  charmers  allow 
me  but  very  little  leisure.  You  desired  me  in  yours,  not 
to  let  them  forget  you,  and  I  can  assure  you,  they  do  not. 
As  a  proof  of  it  I  must  let  you  know,  how  much  you  are 
in  Lady  Harriett's '  favour.  It  is  not  long  since  she  was 
to  go  to  her  Grace,  as  usual  afber  dinner ;  but  suspecting 
there  was  company,  and  being  in  one  of  her  little  shy 
humours,  she  could  /lot  be  prevailed  upon  to  go  in  till 
she  was  told  there  was  "  nobody  but  Mrs.  Pendarves  and 
Miss  Granville ;"  upon  which  she  ventured  in ;  but  when 
she  found  it  was  not  you,  she  ran  out  and  burst  out  a 
crying,  and  said  it  "  was  not  her  Miss  Granville."  How- 
ever she  is  now  become  very  fond  of  Miss  Granville,  and 

'  The  traveller. 

'  Lady  Harriet  Bentincl?,  who  afterwards  married  George  Harry,  5th  Earl  of 
Stamford  and  Warrington. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


86  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

says  she  loves  her  for  your  sake,  as  she  says  she  does 
also  Mr.  Granville,  "  because  he  is  your  brother."  I  need 
say  nothing  to  you  of  Lady  Betty ;  you  are  well  ac- 
quainted with  her  admirable  temper.  I  dare  say  she  has 
as  great  an  affection  for  you  as  her  sister  has,  though 
she  does  not  express  so  much :  she  learns  exceedingly  well, 
and  loves  her  book  and  me  entirely;  nor  is  she  ever 
more  happy  than  when  she  is  with  me,  and  we  study 
together,  even  by  candle-light,  like  two  old  folks. 

I  want  nothing  here  to  make  my  happiness  complete 
as  this  world  can  make  it,  but  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
Mrs.  Pendarves  oftener,  who  is  entirely  engrossed  by  her 
Grace.  I  can  send  you  nothing  new  jfrom  hence ;  Mrs. 
Pendarves  can  do  it  better,  who  hears  and  sees  more 
than  I  do,  who  I  know  so  frequently  entertains  you 
agreeably  in  that  way.  We  begin  to  talk  of  going  to 
Bulstrode,  where  I  long  to  be,  because  1  shall  I  hope  to 
have  the  honour  of  more  of  her  Grace's  company — for 
it  is  impossible  to  have  any  of  it  here ;  and  I  am  not 
without  hopes  I  shall  be  made  happy  by  seeing  dear 
Miss  Granville  there  before  we  return,  which  vnill  add 
greater  deUght  to  the  place.  In  the  meantime  I  shall 
please  myself  with  those  hopes,  and  continue  for  ever  to 
be  your 

Most  grateful  and  most  affectionate  servant, 

Elizabeth  Elstob. 

The  following  pages  are  part  of  a  letter  of  Mrs.  Pendarves.  It 
appears  to  be  an  account  given  her  by  an  eye-witness  of  the  recep- 
tion of  Princess  Mary  of  Hesse  on  her  marriage. 

Her  Eoyal  Highness  the  Princess  Mary  of  Hesse  set 
out  from  London  June  the  6th,  and  arrived  at  Millens- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  87 

hall  the  15th — b,  hunting  seat  of  the  Prince  Stadtholder 
of  Hesse  (which  they  say  is  the  proper  appellation  of  the 
bridegroom's  father),  and  about  three  German  miles  from 
Cassel ;  from  whence  a  message  was  sent  to  notify  her 
being   come   thither.     The   next  day  the   Prince   and 
Princess  of  Orange,    the    Prince  Stadholder  and  the 
Bridegroom,  the  Prince  and  Princess  Maximilian,  with 
the  three  Princesses  their  daughters,  Princess  Mary  of 
Hesse,  and  Prince  George,  came  to  Millenshall  to  dine 
with  her  Boyal  Highness,  who  was  almost  drowned  in 
tears  for  whom  so   much   magnificence  was  prepared. 
When  they  alighted  from  their  coaches,  the  Prince  Stad- 
holder went  first  to  make  his  compliments  to  the  Princess, 
with  whom  he  stayed  a  very  little  while ;  then  he  in- 
troduced Prince  Frederick,  and  after  about  a  quarter  of 
an   hour's  conversation,   the  Princess   Eoyal^  was    ad- 
mitted for  a  few  minvtes ;  then  Prince  Frederick  con- 
ducted his  Bride  into  the  apartment  where  the  rest  of 
the  company  were  assembled,  and  soon  after  they  went 
to  dinner.     About  seven  in  the  evening  they  returned  to 
Cassel,  leaving  the  Bride  to  enjoy  her  solitude  at  Millens- 
hall   tiU  the  next    day,   when  aU  the  company  who 
dined  with  her  met  her  about  half  a  German  mile  out 
of  town,  where  there  were  tents  pitched — ^the  Prince  and 
Princess  of  Orange  could  not  be  there  on  account  of 
precedency.     From  thence  began  the  cavalcade  for  the 
entry,  which  was  exceedingly  grand, — a  description  of 
which  is  published  by  authority  in  the  Cassel  Gazette. 
In  the  evening,  the  nuptials  were  performed  in  one  of  the 
great  rooms  of  the  castle ;  the  Bride  was  in  the  same  dress 


>  Anne,  Princess  Boyal  of  England,  and  sister  of  the  Princess  Mary,  was 
married  to  William  Prince  of  Orange,  in  1734. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


88  .  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

in  which  she  was  married  by  proxy.  They  afterwards 
supped  in  public.  When  the  dessert  was  taken  off,  they 
stood  up  to  drink  the  King  of  Great  Britain*s  health,  at 
which  the  cannon  from  the  ramparts  were  fired.  The 
King  of  Sweden's  and  the  Bride  and  the  Bridegroom's 
healths  were  drank  in  the  same  manner.  Then  the  Prince 
and  Princess  and  the  great  oflBcers  of  the  court  danced  the 
mystical  dance,  or  Hjrmeneal  dance,  the  manner  of  which 
is  this :  all  the  nobility,  and  great  officers  of  the  court  and 
army,  with  white  flambeaux  lighted  in  their  hands,  begin 
a  dance  to  a  very  solemn  tune,  and  the  Princess  and  Bride- 
groom bring  up  the  rear ;  after  which  the  rest  of  dancers 
dance  themselves  into  a  circle,  the  Bride  and  Bridegroom 
being  in  the  middle  ;  then  they  divide  into  two  lines,  the 
Bridegroom  leads  his  Bride  to  her  apartment,  the  dancers 
following  two  and  two  with  their  torches  to  the  door  of 
the  bedchamber,  where  they  all  stopped  and  put  out 
their  flambeaux  with  great  silver  extinguishers. 

The  next  day  all  the  officers  both  civil  and  mili- 
tary, and  the  clergy,  were  presented  to  her  Royal  High- 
ness. At  night  there  was  a  public  supper  and  a  ball ; 
after  the  minuets  were  ended  they  danced  a  few  English 
country  dances.  The  19th,  they  dined  in  public,  and 
went  to  the  Orangerie,  in  the  afternoon  where  they 
played  at  cards  and  supped.  After  supper  they  formed  a 
grand  cavalcade,  from  whence  they  proceeded  through 
the  old  and  new  towns  of  Cassel,  both  which  were  finely 
illuminated ;  especially  the  triumphal  arches  which  were 
erected  at  the  several  gates.  They  then  returned  to  the 
Orangerie,  and  the  evening  was  concluded  with  a  ball. 
The  next  day  after  dinner  the  Court  went  again  to 
the  Orangerie,  played  at  cards  and  supped  as  before,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  89 

then  walked  in  the  gardens,  which  were  finely  illumi- 
nated ;  particularly  an  eminence  at  the  end  of  a  great 
walk  was  contrived  to  cast  out  fire  in  imitation  of  Mount 
Vesuvius.  The  next  day,  which  was  Saturday,  was  a 
review  of  horse  and  foot  guards  ;  and  at  night  a  ball  at 
Court  which  concluded  the  week's  festival. 

There  was  at  the  public  dinners  and  suppers  180 
covers,  and  the  form  of  the  tables  represented  an  F  and 
M;  the  whole  was  conducted  with  surprizing  magni- 
ficence, and  the  English,  who  were  present  treated  with 
all  marks  of  distinction  and  politeness. 

The  Ltmdon  Magazine  states :  "  On  Thursday  the  8th  of  May, 
1740,  the  Princess  Mary,  daughter  of  King  George  II.  and  Queen 
Caroline,  was  married  to  the  Prince  Frederic  of  Hesse  Cassel,  her 
brother  the  Duke  of  Cumberland  acting  as  procurator."  On  Friday 
the  6th  of  June  following,  the  Princess  embarked  at  Greenwich  on 
board  the  "Maiy"  yacht,  and  proceeded  to  Hesse  Cassel.  On 
Thursday  the  17th  of  July,  the  same  Magazine  announces  that  the 
Czarina  has  conferred  the  Order  of  St.  Catherine  on  H.R.H.  the 
Princess  of  Hesse.  On  the  last  Sunday  of  the  same  month  the 
Prince  Frederic  and  his  bride  waited  upon  King  George  II.  at 
Herenhausen. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


yO  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


CHAPTER  VI. 

From  the  Marriage  of  Mrs.  Dewes  to  Mrs.  Pendarves's 
Marriage  with  Dr.  Delany. 

1740—1743. 

The  HonUe.  Mrs,  Foley  to  Mrs,  Dewes} 

Stoke,  August  24th,  1740. 

If  the  warmest  wishes  of  a  most  sincere  friend  can 
add  to  your  happiness  you'll  be  the  happiest  woman  in 


*  Des  Ewes,  d^Ewes^  Dews,  Dewes,  This  family  descended  from  Otho  des 
Ewes,  of  the  duchy  of  Guelderland,  who  was  ancestor  of  Gerard  des  Ewes, 
Dynaste,  or  lord  of  the  territory  of  Kessel,  who  married  Anne,  daughter  of  the 
Prince  de  Home,  and  whose  descendant  Adriatt,  younger  hrother  of  the  Lord 
of  Kessel,  came  into  England  when  that  duchy  had  heen  depopulated  in  the 
wars  hy  intestine  discord.  Adrian  des  Ewes  came  to  England  in  the  reign  of 
Henry  VIII.,  and  died  of  the  sweating  sickness  5th  Edward  VI.  Hifl  grand- 
son Sir  Paul,  was  the  father  of  the  famous  Sir  Symond  d'Ewes,  The  last 
haronet  was  Sir  Jermyn  d'Ewes,  of  Stow  Hall,  Suffolk,  who  died  at  Thetford, 
in  Norfolk,  April,  1731.  He  was  named  after  his  maternal  grandfather, 
Thomas  Lord  Jermyn,  whose  title  became  extinct  1703.  John  d'Ewes,  the 
husband  of  Ann  Granville,  was  descended  from  the  third  son  of  Gerard  (or 
Geei-ardt)  son  of  Adrian,  who  with  Alice  Ravenscroft  his  wife,  was  buried  un- 
der the  fine  monument  in  the  church  of  St.  Michael  Bassishaw,  London,  men- 
tioned ill  Weever's  Antiquities.  John  d'Ewes  was  son  of  Court  D'Ewes  of 
Maplebury  and  grandson  of  Richard  d'Ewes  of  Coughton,  who  married  Mary 
daughter  and  co-heir  of  Edmund  Court  of  Maplebury.  Curious  accoimts 
may  be  found  of  the  Des  Ewes  family,  Elia  Rensweri,  Basil.  Geneol.  Acutua- 
rnm — Edit.  Francfort,  1592,  p.  102. — Qenealogical  History  of  the  Netherlands, 
Book  6,p,  2  to  7.  Printed  1609.  Escheats  34^A  Elizabeth,  Part  1st,  No.  11. 
Essex,  in  the  Archives. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  9X 

the  world,  my  dearest  cousin  Dewes,  and  I  most  heartily 
wish  you  every  blessing  which  can  be  possibly  possest  in 
this  world.     The  character  I  hear  of  Mr.  Dewes  gives 
me  the  greater  satisfaction  imaginable,  for  with  such  a 
partner  your  friends,  I  thank  God,  have  no  doubt  to  make 
of  your  happiness,  which  will  be,  I  hope,  of  long  con- 
tinuance.    I  much  wish  to  be  acquainted  with  my  new 
cousin,  to  whom,  though  at  present  unknown,  coming 
from  you,  I  hope  will  accept  my  compliments  and  sincere 
congratulations  on  this  occasion.    Of  his  happiness  I  am 
certain,  as  everybody  must  be  who  knows  your  merit. 
I  hope  you  got  safely  to  your  own  house,  where  I  heartUy 
wish  you  to  live  to  enjoy  many  happy  happy  years.     I 
was  forced  to  beg  the  favour  of  dear  Penny  to  convey  this 
epistle  to  you,  not  knowing  how  to  direct,  and  I  could 
not  defer  letting  you  know  how  filled  my  heart  is  with 
affection  to  you.     Mr.  Foley's  compliments  wait  on  the 
Bride  and  Bridegroom ;  there  is  no-  one,  I  am  sure,  who 
is  more  sincere  than  he  is  in  his  congratulations,  nor 
wishes  you  more  truly  happy.     I  am  desired  to  make 
the  compliments  of  this  family  to  you  both,  and  like- 
wise to  return  my  cousin  Dewes  thanks  for  the  interest 
he  gives  Mr.  Leckmere  and  Pit.    Mrs.  Leckmere  is  at 
present  at  Stoke,  but  leaves  us  to-morrow ;  she  is  an  ex- 
tremely agreeable  woman.     I  have  eloped  this  evening 
from  all  the  company,  being  resolved  nothing  should 
hinder  me  following  my  inclination  in  assuring  you  how 
well  and  how  sincerely  you  are  well-wished  by. 
Dear  cousin. 

Your  faithful  and  affectionate  G.  Foley. 
P.S.  Mrs.  Foley  hopes  you  received  her  letter.     We 
had  an  infinite  deal  of  company  here  on  Saturday  (the 
fashionable   day  amongst  the   GranviUes),   but   I  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


92  LIFE  AND  CORKESPONDENCE 

absent  in  thought  from  them  the  whole  day,  and  I  wished 
I  could  have  conveyed  my  person  to  Grioster  where  my 
heart  and  good  wishes  were  all  the  day. 

Poor  Mrs.  GriflBths  has  been  such  a  comedy  and 
tragedy  as  I  never  saw  ;  she  says,  "  Poor  soul,  I  wish  her 
all  the  happiness  this  world  can  afford  her."  Bloxum* 
hopes  you  wont  think  her  pert  in  bearing  ''duty*'  and 
''wishing  joy  r 

As  Mrs.  Pendarves'  correspondence  with  her  sister  appears  to 
have  ceased  during  the  latter  end  of  May,  June,  and  July,  it  is  to 
be  supposed  that  Ann  Granville  came  to  London  to  make  prepa- 
rations for  her  marriage,  which  appears  to  have  taken  place  in 
August  of  the  same  year  (1740),  after  which  Mrs.  Pendarves 
remained  with  her  mother  at  Gloucester.  From  the  time  of 
that  marriage  there  is  not  a  word  which  does  not  indicate  that 
Mrs.  Pendarves  not  only  hact  reconciled  herself  to  a  third  person 
sharing  her  sister's  regard,  but  that  she  had,  with  that  disinterested 
affection  which  formed  so  prominent  a  part  of  her  character,  satis- 
fied her  mind  by  discovering  the  solid  merits  of  Mr.  Dewes, 
whose  character  evidently  rose  upon  her  year  by  year.  It  may  be 
a  matter  of  surprise  at  first  sight,  that  Ann  Granville  should  have 
been  disposed  to  listen  to  the  suit  of  any  one  not  absolutely  recom- 
mended by  her  sister,  but  many  circumstances  contributed  to  induce 
her  silence  until  she  had  decided  for  herself.  Mr.  Dewcs  was  per- 
sonally unknown  to  Mrs.  Pendarves,  and  therefore  she  could  not 
give  any  individual  opinion ;  she  had  so  high  an  opinion  of  Ann 
Granville's  deserts,  that  she  would  have  been  certain  to  consider  any 
younger  brother  a  very  bad  match  for  her,  and  would  have  had  a 
natural  desire  to  defer  a  separation  of  interests,  or  any  change  in 
the  confidential  communications  which  had  hitherto  been  the  solace 
and  comfort  of  their  lives  for  any  uncertain  or  remote  advantage.  It 
is  needless  here  to  explain  again  that  the  manner  in  which  Ann 
Granville  became  acquainted  with  Mr.  Dewes  was  in  accordance 
with  the  custom  of  the  day,  and  considered  at  that  time  as  the 
height  of  propriety  and  discretion.     That  Ann  GranviUe  diould 

*  "  JJIoxum,**    Mrs.  Foley's  waiting-woman. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  93 

have  determined  to  marry  if  she  met  with  a  person  she  liked  whose 
principles  she  could  trust,  and  whose  position  entitled  him  to  a 
fair  hearing,  is  not  surprising.  She  had  relinquished  the  offer  of 
a  place  at  Court,  which  would  have  separated  her  entirely  from 
her  mother,  and  for  which  she  evidently  had  had  a  great  inclination  ; 
she  was  not,  like  her  sister,  living  in  the  world  and  able  to  choose  her 
own  society.  She  languished  in  the  old  town  of  Gloucester,  from 
whence  her  occasional  escapes  to  a  more  congenial  atmosphere  enabled 
her  to  strike  the  balance  and  decide  in  favour  of  a  country  home 
of  her  own,  with  a  companion  she  could  esteem  and  love,  and 
where  she  would  still  be  within  reach  of  that  mother  to  whom  both 
daughters  were  devoted.  Thus  it  was  that  the  beautiful  and  gentle 
Ann  Granville  married  Mr.  Dewes,  whose  descent  was  as  ancient, 
though  not  quite  so  illustrious  as  her  own,  and  whom  she  preferred, 
with  a  moderate  fortune,  to  the  numerous  admirers  who  had  pre- 
viously been  rejected  because  their  principles  did  not  keep  pace 
with  their  estates. 


Miss  Bobinson  writes  from  Bulstrode,  August  21st,  to  Mrs. 
Donellan  as  follows : — 

"  Our  friend  Pexmy  is  under  great  anxiety  for  the  change 
her  sister  is  going  to  make.  I  do  not  wonder  at  her  fears. 
I  helieve  both  experience  and  observation  have  taught  her 
the  state  she  is  going  into  is  in  general  less  happy  than 
that  she  has  left.  However,  Pip  has  a  good  prospect,^  for 
they  say  the  gentleman  has  good  sense,  good  nature,  and 
great  yobriety :  these  are  very  good  things  ;  and  indeed 
what  a  stock  of  virtues  and  qualifications  ought  to  be 
laid  in  to  last  out  the  journey  of  life !  Where  so  much 
lies  through  the  rugged  ways  of  adversity,  all  will  hardly 
serve  to  lengthen  love  and  patience  to  the  end." 


*  "  A  good  prosi^ect."  From  Mrs.  Dewes's  having  called  herself  Prospect^ 
it  is  pTobahle  the  name  arose  from  her  friends  justifying  her  marriage  on  the 
gnmnd  of  expectationB. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


94  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


The  Duchess  of  Portland  to  Lady  Throckmorton, 

Bulstrode,  Augst.  25tb,  1740. 

My  dear  Lady  Throck's  letter  gave  me  pleasure,  but  not 
so  much  as  I  could  have  wished  if  it  had  brought  me  the 
news  of  your  perfect  recovery,  which  would  be  one  of  the 
greatest  joys  I  can  receive.  I  fancy  it  has  been  a  good 
deal  owing  to  the  badness  of  the  weather,  that  you  did 
not  receive  the  benefit  one  could  have  hoped  for,  but  I 
don't  doubt  but  that  you  will  be  the  better  for  it,  before 
you  leave  Tunbridge.  I  had  a  letter  last  week  from  Doc- 
tor Young ;  I  am  extremely  sorry  he  has  been  so  ill,  but 
hope  he  will  still  favour  us  with  his  company,  I  design 
troubling  of  him  soon.   At  present  we  lead  a  most  stupid 

life.      The  S is  here,  and  then,  you  know,  all  must 

pass  in  ceremonials ;  Mr.  Ford  left  us  yesterday  morning 
in  order  to  set  out  for  Cambridge,  where  his  nephew  is  to 
stand  in  the  room  of  the  Gog  or  Magog;  in  my  humble 
opinion  a  bad  project  that  will  cost  a  great  deal  of  money , 
and  I  don't  know  that  either  of  them  has  it  to  spare.  And 
then  besides  I  could  not  bear  to  go  and  live  in  a  stinking 
inn,  six  miles  from  a  fine  seat  which  I  just  now  sold. 
That  may  be  pride  in  me  and  a  wrong  way  of  thiuking, 
but  I  must  own  to  you,  it  is  such  a  pride  as  I  would  not 
conquer ;  don't  mention  this  to  a  mortal  I  beg,  for  it  is 
not  proper  it  should,  but  I  know  you  are  so  iadulgent  to 
interest  yourself  in  what  concerns  me  that  I  can't  help 
opening  my  heart  to  you. 

Thank  God,  the  children  are  perfectly  well ;  poor  Bill 
has  been  stimg  by  a  wasp  upon  both  his  hands  to-day, 
but  he  plays  about,  and  does  not  mind  it.  I  expect  my 
company  will  stay  a  month  with  me ;  must  I  not  hope 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANYo  95 

for  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you  any  part  of  this  year  ?  it 
would  make  me  extremely  happy.  I  hope  Sir  Robert  is 
perfectly  well  and  returned  some  time  to  you ;  my  best 
compliments  attend  him  and  Mrs.  CoUingwood  who  I 
hope  continues  well.  The  wind  whistles  most  melan- 
choly; I  should  not  rejoice  at  the  near  approach  of 
winter,  but  as  I  have  so  agreeable  a  companion  with  me, 
I  can't  wish  to  leave  the  country.  I  hope  my  next 
may  be  longer,  but  at  present  time  is  very  scarce,  and  I 
liave  many  epistles  upon  my  hands.  I  heard  of  two  wed- 
dings to-day — Lord  Brooke  to  Lady  Bell  Fitzroy  ^  and 
Lord  John  Sackville  to  Miss  Leveson.  ^ 

I  hear  Pip  ^  is  married.    Adieu, 

Ever  yours  with  the  most  unfeigned  affection. 

Fidget,^  my  Lord,  Mr.  Pots,  and  F^'kre  Bonavanture 
are  yours  and  Sir  Robert's  devoted. 


The  Hovfi^  Dame  A,  OravviUe^  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Windsor,  y«  26,  1740. 

Accept,  fair  cousin,  my  sincere  congratulation  on  this 
solemn  occasion.  May  all  the  happiness  belonging  to  a 
matrimonial  state  attend  on  you !  and  though  I  have  not 
the  pleasure  of  knowing  Mr.  Dewes,  I  am  sure  he  knows 
how  to  distinguish  sense,  virtue,  reUgion,  and  merit,  by 

'  Lady  Arabella  Fitssroy,  daughter  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Grafton,  married 
May  29,  1741,  to  Francis  Seymour  Conway,  Lord  Conway,  afterwards  Earl  of 
Hertford. 

'  Lord  John  Philip  Sackyiilc,  son  of  Lionel  Duke  of  Dorset,  married  Lady 
Francis,  daughter  of  John  Earl  Grower. 

'  " Pip"    Ann  Granville,  Mrs. Dewes.    . 

*  "  Fidget,**  The  name  given  to  Mrs.  Montagu  on  account  of  her  great  activity 
of  mind  and  body.  Mrs.  Montagu  says  in  one  of  her  letters  in  speaking  of  an 
old-fashioned  table,  "  WTty  so  rnany  legs  should  he  required  to  stand  stUly  whilst 
I  can  FIDGET  on  two,  I  own  surprises  me/* 

*  Eldest  daughter  of  George  Lord  Lansdown, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


96  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

his  choice  of  you.  Pray  write  to  me  soon,  that  I  may 
have  under  your  own  hand  that  you  are  as  happy  as  I 
can  wish  you;  oh,  that  I  could  hear  you  say  so  by 
word  of  mouth  !  Dear  Ann,  tell  me  in  your  next  that  I 
shall  have  the  pleasure  soon,  and  you  will  please  me  much. 
How  happy  aU  our  kindred  will  be  when  they  meet  at 
Stoke  and  at  Newport;^  for  there  I  suppose  Pen  and 
Mr.  Granville  will  go.  I  believe  I  need  not  tell  you  I 
wish  myself  with  them — you  will  easily  believe  I  do, 
but  since  that  can't  be  at  present  I  must  be  contented  with 
thinking  over  their  happiness  at  a  distance,  but  hope 
next  year  to  be  an  eye-witness  of  it.  I  have  heard  no 
more  particulars  in  regard  to  my  brother's  aflFairs  but 
what  I  wrote  you  word  of,  but  flatter  myself  they  are 
going  on  in  the  same  train  I  mention.  Betty*  desires  her 
compliments  and  best  wishes  to  you,  and  both  desire  our 
humble  service  to  Mr.  Dewes,  who  I  hope  to  be  ac- 
quainted with.  I  have  not  seen  the  sweet  Duchess  of 
Portland  some  time,  for  Lady  Oxford  is  with  her.  Mrs. 
Pringdon  is  well.  Madame  Jane  was  here  on  Sunday, 
and  always  inquires  kindly  after  you ;  I  send  this  letter 
to  dear  Pen,  not  knowing  how  to  direct  to  you — let  me 
know  in  your  next  letter  :  but  wherever  you  are  may 
heaven  protect  you  with  his  choicest  blessings,  are,  dear 
Mrs.  Dewes,  the  wishes  of  your  ever 

Faithful  and  affectionate, 
A.  Granville. 


»  At  '*  Stoke  and  at  NenyxyrC  Stoke  Edith  Park,  and  Newport  Id 
Herefordshire,  belonged  to  Thomas  Foley,  Esq.,  who  married  Grace,  yonnjrest 
daughter  of  George  Lord  Lansdown,  and  sister  to  the  writer  of  this  letter. 
He  was  afterwards  created  Lord  Foley,  having  inherited  the  property  of  his 
consin,  the  3rd  Lord  Foley,  on  the  decease  of  that  nobleman. 

^  llie  Honourable  Elizabeth  Granville,  afterwards  Maid  of  Honour  to  the 
Princess  of  Wales. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  97 

Mrs.  Pendanm  to  her  sister  Mrs,  Dewes, 

29  Aug.  1740. 

I  shall  not  be  able  to  write  to  you  a  comfortable  long 
letter  till  I  get  to  Stoke,  for  I  have  my  head  and  hands 
full  of  afikirs.  I  have  had  an  account  from  Mr.  Hiirbin 
that  my  Lord  Weymouth  is  settling  his  affairs,  but 
designs  to  allow  his  sisters  only  £200  a  year  for  the  entire 
maintenance  of  both,  and  that  to  depend  on  his  will : 
what  a  prospect  is  this  for  them  after  the  expectations 
he  has  given  them !  I  have  this  day  wrote  four  letters 
in  their  behalf,  which  have  cost  me  much  thought,  and  I 
wish  they  may  prove  of  any  service,  I  have  wrote  to 
Sir  Bobert  Worsley,^  Sir  John  Stanley,  Lord  Weymouth, 
and  Mr.  Harbin.  I  was  in  hopes  to  have  had  this 
afternoon  to  myself  to  write  you  a  more  intelligible  letter 
than  this  scrawl  will  prove,  but   Dicky  Bateman   and 

his  sister  are  just Here  I  was  called  away  last 

night  to  entertain  them,  they  supped  with  us  and  have 
set  out  this  morning  in  most  dismal  vv^eather  for  Shobden 
in  Herefordshire,  which  it  seems  is  but  four  miles  from 
Newport.  This  morning  I  have  been  at  church.  You 
are  called  to  mind  in  all  my  moments,  whether  serious 
or  gay,  and  if  I  had  an  inclination  to  forget  you,  that  could 
not  happen  here,  where  everybody  enquires  after  you,  and 
send  you  wishes  without  end,  even  Bem  honoured  us 
this  morning  with  a  compliment  on  your  account. 

The  Bishop  is  not  yet  returned ;  I  believe  he  comes 
to-morrow.     I  have  got  a  very  neat  tea-chest  for  Mrs. 


*  Sir  Robert  Worsley,  of  Appuldercombe,  married  in  1690,  Frances,  only 
daughter  of  Thomas,  Ist  Viscount  Weymouth.  His  daughter  Frances,  married 
John  Loid  Carteret. 

VOL.  II.  H 


Digitized  by 


Google 


98  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Yate,  which  shall  be  filled  with  tea  and  delivered  to  her 
as  your  act  and  deed ;  I  saw  Mr.  Tate  at  church  this 
morning,  and  he  wishes  you  much  joy  and  happiness ;  he 
says  very  handsome  things  of  my  brother  Dews,  and 
desired  his  compliments  to  both.  To-morrow,  madam,  the 
city  of  Gloucester  is  to  be  entertained  at  Mr.  Whitfield's 
great  room  with  the  Miser,^  performed  by  the  celebrated 
Cheltenham  strollers,  and  an  assembly  and  ball;  the 
whole  to  conclude  with  a  supper.  The  particulars  of  all 
these  extraordinary  aflfairs  I  will  communicate  by  word 
of  mouth,  for  I  despair  of  finding  time  for  writing.  I 
went  to  the  top  of  the  Tower  with  my  brother,  and  Mr. 
Newton,  and  the  telescope — it  was  very  fine.  I  wished 
I  could  have  seen  Bradley ;'  if  I  had  it  would  have  been 
no  easy  matter  to  have  removed  me  from  a  spot  that 
showed  me  such  a  prospect. 

P.S.  Mr.  Edward  Stanley  dined  with  us  on  Friday, 
and  is  much  yours  and  your  husband's  humble  servant. 
He  went  away  yesterday  morning  towards  Cheshire. 

From  this  letter  it  appears  that  Mrs.  Pendarves  must  have  gone 
to  Gloucester  with  her  brother  for  her  sister's  marriage,  and 
remained  there  till  she  went  to  visit  her  cousin,  the  bride  Mrs. 
Foley,  at  Stoke. 


^  The  Muer^  compoeed  by  Henry  Fielding,  1733-1744:.  This  play  was  acted 
with  great  applause  at  the  Theatre  Boyal,  Dmry  Lane.  In  the  Daily  Journal 
for  January  11, 1734,  is  the  following  advertisement :  "  At  the  Theatre 
Royal,  Drury  Lane,  on  Monday  next,  the  14th  of  January,  will  be  presented 
a  comedy,  called  The  Miser,  The  part  of  Lovegold,  the  Miser,  by  Mr.  Norris ; 
Lappet,  by  Mrs.  Olive." 

2  "  Bradley,^  Mrs.  Dewes's  residence. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY. 


Mrs.  Elstdb  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

1740. 


Were  I  not  very  well  acquainted  with  my  valuable 
firiend*s  great  clemency  and  goodness,  I  could  not  have 
the  assurance  to  write  to  her  after  so  long  a  silence.  I 
must  confess  I  am  extremely  ashamed  that  I  have  not 
sooner  made  my  acknowledgments  for  your  most 
obliging  letter,  but  am  much  more  out  of  countenance, 
that  I  have  not  acquainted  you  with  the  inexpressible 
satisfaction  I  received  when  I  heard  you  were  so  hap- 
pily married,  and  that  I  have  not  presented  you  and 
the  very  worthy  gentleman  you  have  made  happy  with 
my  more  early  congratulations,  nor  assured  you  of  my 
sincere  prayers  and  wishes  for  your  long  enjoyment  of  all 
the  blessings  heaven  can  give ;  in  this  my  dear  little 
charmers  join  with  me,  and  would  I  am  sure  teU 
you  so  themselves  could  they  make  use  of  pens  and 
paper :  Lady  Betty  often  talks  with  pleasure  of  writing 
to  you,  and  Lady  Harriett  is  Miss  Pip  almost  every  day^ 
and  pays  me  visits  under  that  name;  the  sweet  little 
Marquis,  who  is  certainly  the  finest  child  that  ever  was, 
takes  horse  to  carry  you  my  compliments.  I  heartily 
wish  you  could  see  them,  and  partake  of  the  pleasure  I 
enjoy  in  them,  fo%[  am  sure  they  would  highly  delight 
you.  Dear  Mrs.  Pendarves  makes  me  doubtful  whether 
we  shall  be  so  happy  as  to  see  you  here  or  no :  it  will  be 
a  ffreat  disappointment  to  our  great  people  if  you  don't 
come,  but  will  be  to  no  one  a  greater  concern  than  to 

Tour  most  grateful  and  most 
affectionate  servant, 
Elizabeth  Elstob. 
h2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


100  LIFE  AND  OOREESPONDENCE 

I  hear  yon  have  lately  had  a  visit  from  one  of  my 
favourites,  and  hope  you  like  her  as  well  as  I  .do — I 
mean  Miss  Hopkins. 


Lady  Throckmorton  to  Mrs,  Detoes, 

September  4:tli,  1740. 

Hearing  my  dear  Nancy  is  become  a  wife,  I  must 
assure  her  of  my  congratulations  and  sincere  wishes  for 
all  possible  happiness,  which  I  know  none  more  deserving 
of  than  herself,  and  the  extremely  good  character  of  Mr. 
Dewes  makes  me  hope  she'll  enjoy  entire  felicity.  Now 
I  shall  be  even  with  you  for  all  your  banters  upon  me, 
and  assure  yourself,  my  dear  Nancy,  if  I  find  (what  I 
hope  I  shall  not)  the  least  abatement  of  your  friendship 
for  me,  you  shall  never  hear  the  last  of  it.  I  long  to  see 
you,  and  hope  we  shaU  meet  in  London  next  winter ;  you 
can't  imagine  what  joy  I  shall  have  to  see  you  and  your 
love  together.  I  beg  if  you  think  proper  you'll  make  my 
compliments  to  him,  for  though  I  have  not  the  honour  of 
personally  knowing  him,  I  must  love  him  now  he  belongs 
to  you.  You  see  I  write  in  the  old  free  style,  depend- 
ing on  your  not  shewing  my  letters  to  your  husband,  as 
I  never  shew  yours  to  mine.  Pray  write  to  me  as  soon 
as  you  have  a  leisure  minute,  for  I  amAnpatient  to  have 
a  letter  from  Mrs.  Dewes  and  to  know  from  her  own  pen 
that  she  is  as  much  my  friend  as  dear  Miss  Granville  was. 

I  was  alqxost  angry  with  you  for  not  answering  the 
letter  I  wrote  you  from  London,  but  then  I  consi- 
dered you  must  be  in  a  hurry,  which  might  occasion 
strange  things  to  ensue,  such  as  your  silence,  &c.  Pray 
give  my  kind  love  to  the  imdow,  and  tell  her  I  have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELAinr.  101 

some  crayons  for  her,  which  I  shall  leave  at  her  house  in 
London. 

I  hope  to  go  from  this .  place  in  a  few  days,  so  you 
must  direct  at  Weston,  and  pray  tell  me  if  Newport 
Pagnell  will  be  your  way  to  London  from  Warwickshire. 
Sir  fiobert  desires  his  respects  to  you,  and  begs  you  wiU 
receive  here  his  compliments  of  congratulation;  mama 
joins  with  me  in  the  same,  and 

I  am,  my  dear  Nancy, 

Your  faithful  humble 

C.  Throckmorton. 


Mrs,  fendaroes  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Stoke,  5  Sept.  1740. 

I  came  to  this  place  last  Wednesday,  well  conducted 
by  our  good  friend's  equipage;  found  the  roads  tole- 
rably good  and  am  charmed  with  the  infinite  beauties  of 
the  place.  The  house,  its  situation,  the  park,  and  woods, 
are  all  delightful ;  and  the  happiness  that  seems  to  reign 
amongst  the  inhabitants  of  this  sweet  place  greatly  contri- 
butes to  make  everything  about  them  agreeable.  How 
much  you  are  talked  of,  how  often  wished  for,  and  what 
blessings  are  called  for  to  attend  you  on  all  occasions, 
are  subjects  that  would  take  up  more  time  and  paper  than 
I  have  to  spare ;  but  in  the  midst  of  my  pleasures  here 
my  thoughts  are  working  how  to  enjoy  my  chief  earthly 
happiness,  and  not  hearing  from  you  as  regularly  as  I 
could  wish  to  do  is  an  alloy  to  all  my  pleasures,  and 
makes  me  still  more  impatient  to  come  to  you,  where 
nothing  will  interrupt  our  conversation.  My  cousins 
have  begged  so  hSsurd  to  have  me  see  Newport,  that  I  don't 


Digitized  by 


Google 


102  LIFE  AND  COBBESPONDBNCE 

know  how  to  reftise,  so  next  Monday  we  all  go  in  a 
body  and  return  on  Thursday ;  and  the  Monday  after  that, 
which  will  be  the  15th  of  Sept.,  I  propose  setting  out  for 
Bradley.  I  shall  have  Mr.  Foley's  coach,  and  will  be  at 
Windsor  by  one  o'clock  if  possible,  and  beg  Mr.  Dewes 
will  send  a  servant  there  to  direct  which  will  be  the  best 
road  from  thence.  This  morning  I  have  been  in  the 
chaise  with  Mr.  Foley  all  over  the  park,  and  am  charmed 
with  every  part ;  to-morrow  we  go  to  Hampton  Court, 
and  the  rest  of  my  time  I  have  already  told  you  how  we 
are  to  spend  it.  I  have  chosen  the  chintz-room,  because 
it  was  yours,  but  what  consolation  is  that  to  me  ?  Do  I 
not  think  of  you  wherever  I  am  ?  Most  certainly  I  do.  I 
caught  a  little  cold  a  day  or  two  ago,  and  have  had  a 
touch  of  the  disorder  my  eye  is  subject  to ;  it  is  better  to- 
day, but  I  dare  not  use  it  much.  I  was  hurried  out  this 
'morning,  and  had  scarce  time  to  dress  me,  (it  being  show 
day)^  and  the  light  is  now  so  much  declined  that  I  can 
but  just  see  to  add  my  brother's  kind  compliments,  and 
my  own,  to  Mr.  Dewes  and  yourself.  I  shall  hardly  be 
able  to  write  above  once  more  before  we  meet.  My 
dearest  love,  I  am  for  ever  yours, 

M.  P. 

Is  not  Dapper  excessively  impertinent  ?  I  hope  you 
have  had  all  my  letters  ?  Since  we  parted  I  have  had, 
alas !  but  one. 


1  Hampton  Court  was  at  this  time  in  possession  of  Margaret,  Cotintess  of 
Coningsby ;  whose  sister,  Lady  Frances,  married  Sir  Charles  Hanbury  Williams, 
one  of  whose  daughters  and  co-heirs  married  William  Anne,  4th  Earl  of  Essex, 
who  at  the  death  of  the  Countess  of  Coningsby  became  the  possessor  of 
Hampton  Court.  It  was  sold  by  the  5th  Earl  of  Essex,  to  Richard  Arkwright, 
Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY,  103 


Mn,  Foley  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Btoke,  Sept.  5, 1740. 

I  have  with  utmost  impatience  waited  for  a  letter  from 
dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  to  inform  me  not  only  how  she  got 
home,  hnt  how  to  direct  to  her ;  hut  vain  were  my  hopes, 
and  I  positively  shaU  he  almost  angry  if  I  have  not  a 
line  to-morrow  night,  though  my  dear  Pen,  amongst  ten 
thousand  other  pleasures,  has  given  me  that  of  knowing 
you  are  well,  which  next  to  seeing  you  is  the  greatest 
happiness  I  can  have.  How  much  I  long  to  do  that  is 
not  in  my  power  to  tell  you,  but  you  may  guess  when  I 
tell  you  I  am  fuUy  as  impatient  as  ever  Mr.  Dewes  was ; 
hut,  alas !  I  have  at  present  no  prospect  of  that  satis- 
faction, therefore  make  it  up  to  me  by  giving  me  a  full 
and  true  account  of  yourself,  your  habitation,  and  aU  that 
belongs  to  you.  Matrimony  is  apt  to  make  people  lazy, 
—don't  indulge  at  first,  once  a  week  I  shall  expect  to 
hear  from  you,  and  I  am  sure  if  Mr.  Dewes  knew  how 
well  I  loved  you,  he  would  not  grudge  me  one  hour  in  a 
week.  My  particular  compliments  attend  him.  This 
whole  family  (as  well  as  Lord  Foley)  are  obliged  to  him, 
and  return  tluinks  for  his  interest.  Don't  I,  my  dear 
Mrs.  Dewes,  give  you  a  strong  proof  of  my  attachment  to 
you  by  giving  up  one  moment  of  my  dear  Pen,  especially 
as  she  has  allotted  me  so  few.  She  is  very  well,  and  speaks 
for  herself,  so  that  'tis  needless  for  me  to  do  what  she 
can  do  so  much  better.  Mr.  Granville  is  very  well  also, 
and  is  so  good  as  to  seem  to  like  being  here ;  to-morrow, 
if  dry,  we  go  to  Hampton  Court,  which  will  bring  the 
agreeable  moments  I  spent  there  with  one  Miss  GranviUe 
fresh    in    my   mind,    and  many  wishes  will   there  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


104  UFB  AND  OORRBSPONDENCE 

made  that  you  were  of  the  party.  Monday  we  go  to 
Newport,  and  return  on  Thursday ;  you  11  perhaps  guess 
by  my  going  out  to  stay,  that  the  cold  bath  has  done 
miracles  and  cured  me  already,  but  indeed  I  am  far  fix)m 
being  well,  and  were  it  not  that  I  can't  bear  the  thoughts 
of  losing  Penny's  company,  and  I  find  the  Lord  of  the 
Manor  will  never  forgive  it,  I  would  upon  no  account 
stir.  I  had  a  letter  from  Bath  last  post ;  my  sister* 
and  the  Captain  desire  their  compliments,  and  good 
wishes;  she  will  write  as  soon  as  she  knows  how  to 
direct,  which  I  shall  send  her  word  to-night.  Your 
god-daughter,  Pat  Griffiths,  has  the  small-pox,  but  is  in 
a  fair  way ;  her  mother  knows  nothing  of  it,  nor  do  I 
design  she  shall,  till  she's  recovered ;  she  desires  her  duty 
to  you  and  Mr.  Dewes,  and  wishes  you  all  the  happiness 
in  the  world ;  but  "  Lord  have  mercy  upon  me,  she  teas 
very  sly  to  carry  it  off  so  /"  The  B^ctor  lays  it  to  heart, 
and  never  comes  near  the  house.  I  have  alscr  speeches 
from  them  and  Mrs.  Wolstenholme.  Our  sweet  Prim- 
rose^ is  very  well,  but  poor  thing,  in  great  concern  about 
her  brother's  affairs,*  though  she  does  not  yet  know  half: 
between  friends,  he's  a  monster,  and  I  am  heartily  grieved 
for  the  young  ladies,  and  the  more  so  as  the  old  Countess 
has  the  pleasure  of  triumphing  over  them. 


»  Mrs.  Richard  Foley. 

•  The  Honourable  Mrs.  Foley. 

'  "  Her  brother's  affairs."    Lord  Weymouth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  105 


The  Eonhle.  A.  OranviUe  to  Mn.  Detoes. 

.  Old  Windsor,  y«  6—1740. 

I  began  to  think  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  had  determined  not 
to  write  any  more  to  me,  by  her  long  silence,  but  was 
agreeably  undeceived  by  a  very  kind  letter  last  post,  for 
which  pray  accept  my  most  grateful  acknowledgments ; 
you  say  so  many  obhging  things  to  me  that  I  so  little 
deserve,  but  impute  aU  your  goodness  to  your  usual  par- 
tiality to  your  friends.  Ton  bid  me  write  when  it's 
convenient,  and  at  all  times  I  think  it  so,  to  assure  dear 
Mrs.  Dewes  of  my  constant  friendship,  as  likewise  how 
sincerely  I  rejoice  at  your  thinking  yourself  happy,  and 
that's  the  point  to  make  us  so — being  content  with  what 
Providence  has  allotted,  and  that  my  dear  namesake's 
sense  and  religion  will  always  make  her/ 

The  morning  I  received  your  letter  the  Duchess  of  Port- 
land was  with  us.  I  have  received  more  friendship  from 
her  than  was  possible  for  me  to  expect,  as  likewise  from 
the  Duke.  She  told  me  that  he  and  Lord  Jersey  *  would 
come  to  some  determination  in  regard  to  what  could  be 
done  for  a  pension,  but  with  all  that  she  thought  it  neces- 
sary my  brother  should  be  acquainted  with  it,  for  was  he 
not,  might  say  it  was  without  his  consent  to  the  people 
that  miLst  be  applied  to,  and  that  would  spoil  all.  The 
Duchess  of  Portland  said  that  the  Duke  and  Lord  Jersey 
must  write  to  him  to  let  him  know  their  intentions,  and 
say  that  as  we  are  their  relation  they  hope  he  would  not 
take  it  amiss  if  they  endeavour  to  get  something  for  us, 


'  At  this  time  Mr.  Dewes's  income  was  very  moderate. 
'  William,  3rd  Earl  of  Jersey,  was  nephew  of  Mary  Lady  Lansdowne,  and 
first  cousin  tohxcd  Weymouth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


106  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDENCte 

as  it  was  impossible  to  live  on  what  he  allows  us.  I  am 
not  quite  of  their  opinion,  but  submitted  to  better  judges, 
and  therefore  Providence  will  direct  those  that  have  such 
humanity  and  good  nature  I  hope  for  the  best.  K  my 
dear  Pen  and  you  do  not  approve  of  this,  I  wish  you 
would  write  your  sentiments  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland. 
Say  only  that  I  had  wrote  you  word  of  her  goodness  to 
us,  and  what  else  you  think  proper  (yourself)  to  be  done 
as  coming  from  yourselves. 

We  have  this  morning  received  orders  to  leave  this 
place,  and  we  shall  go  to  town  on  Wednesday  till  Satur- 
day, for  I  intend  to  speak  to  Sir  Eobert  W.  myself,  and 
then  come  to  Windsor  Castle,  for  it  would  be  infinitely 
more  expensive  to  stay  in  London ;  therefore  what  time  I 
can  spend  there,  I  would  choose  to  have  it  at  the  time 
the  friends  are  there  I  like  to  see.  These  reasons  con- 
sidered, I  believe  Pen  will  think  I  am  in  the  right  to 
accept  of  Lady  B's^  house  at  present.  I  have  a  thousand 
things  more  to  say,  but  have  at  this  juncture  not  time, 
for  I  am,  as  you  may  imagine,  in  some  hurry,  and  indeed 
am  ashamed  to  think  I  have  already  been  so  long  talking 
of  myself ;  but  will  not  have  done  till  I  have  assured  dear 
Mrs.  Dewes  that  I  am  ever  your  faithful  and 

Obliged  humble  servant,  A.  G. 


Mrs,  Dewes  to  Lady  Throckmorton, 

Bradley,  10  Sept.  1740. 

My  dearest  Lady  Throck.'s  first  letter  to  Bradley  was 
a  great  joy  to  me,  but  her  second  quite  delighted  me, 
to  find  that  nothing  excludes  me  from  the  friendship 
of  my  dear  amiable  Kitty,  and  I  thank  you  for  allowing 


Probably  Lady  Bateman. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  107 

me  still  to  call  you  by  a  name  that  has  ever  been 
attended  with  pleasure;  the  continuance  of  your  love 
will  make  a  great  deal  of  that  happiness  you  so  kindly 
wish  me.  I  have  yet  met  with  nothing  in  that  state 
(you  seem  so  glad  I  am  come  into)  but  what  gives  me  a 
fair  prospect  of  happiness^  and  though  our  cot  between 
two  aged  oaks  yields  nothing  fine,  it  affords  content,  and 
will  always  do  so  as  long  as  affection  remains  in  the 
inhabitants,  and  supplies  the  place  of  great  apai-tments, 
equipages,  and  state,  though  when  they  are  joined  all  toge- 
ther, as  at  Weston,  it  is  very  charmhig  indeed.  But,  alas, 
how  rare !  and  I  can't  help  thinking  that  there  is  for  the 
generality  more  happiness  in  a  middling  than  in  a  great 
fortune,  and  it  is  very  proper  for  me  to  be  of  that  bpiuion 
now,  as  Mr.  Dewes's  fortune  is  moderate,  but  his  qualities 
are  extremely  good,  which  are  to  be  preferred  to  riches,  and 
I  had  no  pretence  to  expect  both.  The  country  about 
us  is  so  very  dirty,  that  had  we  a  good  neighbourhood 
I  should  not  be  much  the  better  for  it ;  though  were  my 
dear  Lady  Throck.  and  her  "  ovm  Sir  Robert "  at  Coughton 
I  shouldmake  a  hard  shift  but  I  would  often  visit  them,  and 
hope,  some  time  or  other,  to  be  so  happy ;  though  Mr. 
Dewes  is  not  resolved  upon  fixing  me  here  if  he  finds  it 
inconvenient,  and  should  we  remove,  how  happy  should 
T  be  to  be  near  Weston. 

We  have  had  company  every  day  almost  since  we 
came,  and  my  dear  Penny  is  with  us  now;  but  alas! 
she  goes  the  beginning  of  November  to  Bulstrode  :  whe- 
ther I  go  with  her  or  no  I  have  not  yet  quite  deter- 
mined. Three  dreadful  days'  journey  in  the  middle  of 
winter  to  come  back,  frights  me,  for  I  shall  not  go  to 
London  this  year,  where  Mr.  Dewes  stays  but  six  weeks. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


108  .     LIFE  AND  OOJIRBSPONDENCE 

and  if  I  went  I  fear  Weston  is  not  in  my  way ;  I  shall 
rejoice  if  it  is.  Since  I  began  this  I  have  had  a  hun- 
dred interruptions,  and  I  am  ashamed  to  send  such  an 
incoherent  dab,  but  hope  it  will  just  serve  to  show  that 
I  am,  at  all  times,  my  dearest  Lady  Throckmorton's 
Most  faithful  and  affectionate 

Nancy. 

Mr.  Dewes  desires  his  best  respects  to  your  ladyship,  and 
Sir  Bobert  Throckmorton  and  Penny  a  thousand  wishes. 
I  beg  to  hear  soon  a  particular  account  of  your  health, 
and  hope  my  next  letter  will  not  be  such  a  medley. 

My  brother  spent  a  week  here  in  his  way  from  Glou- 
cester to  Calwich,  and  charged  me  with  his  compliments  to 
you  and  Sir  Bobert ;  Mrs.Chapon  has  also  been  with  us,  and 
we  have  been  happy  in  seeing  a  great  many  of  our  friends.% 
Yesterday  a  plump  red-faced  gentleman  dined  with  us, 
whose  name  is  Petres,  and  as  belonging  to  Sir  Robert,  I 
was  glad  to  see  him,  and  talked  a  great  deal  of  Coughton 
with  him.  He  gives  the  same  character  of  your  own  Sir 
Eobert  that  all  the  world  does.  I  hope  Mrs.  Colling, 
wood  is  very  well,  and  beg  my  compliments  to  her.  I 
could  write  to  you  many  sheets,  but  have  a  dozen  letters 
to  answer,  besides  family  affairs  to  mind  that  do  not  come 
within  the  inspection  of  you  fine  ladies. 


Lady  Throckmorton  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

London,  September  16th,  1740. 

I  did  not  know  my  dear  Anna  was  become  a  wife,  tiU 
the  week  before  I  left  Tunbridge ;  and  I  wrote  to  her  the 
very  next  post  my  joyful  wishes  on  the  occasion,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANW  109 

enclosed  it  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland  ;  but  I  find  you 
never  received  my  letter,  or  at  least^had  not  before  you 
wrote  to  me ;  therefore  have  ten  thousand  obligations 
to  you  for  giving  me  the  pleasure  of  hearing  jfrom 
you,  when  you  had  great  reason  to  think  I  was  unde- 
serving that  favour:  but  you  may  believe  nothing  except 
being  deprived  of  the  use  of  my  right  hand,  could  make 
me  silent  on  a  subject  I  have  long  wished  to  write  upon, 
viz.,  your  entering  into  the  matrimonial  society.  I  told 
you  in  my  former  letter  that  I  wished  you  all  joy  and 
felicity  (which  I  do  with  the  greatest  sincerity),  and 
that  I  longed  very  much  to  see  you,  which  is  also  very 
true ;  when  shall  I  have  that  pleasure  ?  Not  this  many 
months  I  doubt.  This  year  I  believe  we  shall  not  see 
old  Cougkton ;  but  the  next  I  hope  will  be  more  lucky. 
I  think  it  barbarous  to  teaze  brides  ;  but  yet  I  have  an 
notion  if  we  were  to  meet  I  should  be  very  merry,  and 
pay  some  old  scores  I  owe  you  on  the  head  of  banters  ; 
but  seriously  I  am  quite  glad  to  hear  you  confirm,  what 
I  have  heard  from  many  hands  before — that  Mr.  Dewes 
has  all  qaalijicationa  to  make  you  happy,  which  I  am 
sure  no  one  is  more  deserving  of  than  yourself,  nor  any 
one  more  sincerely  wishes  than  I  do.  Pray  write  to  me 
soon  at  Weston,  for  I  shall  be  there  next  week,  and  hope 
youTl  give  me  the  good  news  that  you  design  to  call  on 
me  in  your  way  to  London,  which  my  own  husband  says 
is  your  direct  road.  He  desires  his  compliments  to  you ; 
I  beg  mine  to  Mr.  Dewes,  and  that  my  dear  Anna  will 
still  believe  me. 

Her  faithful 

Kitty. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


110  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


2%e  HoMe.  A,  Granville  to  Mrs,  Pendarves^  at  Mr.  Dewa\  near  Aloetter^ 

Warwicksliire. 

Old  Windsor  y«  8 ^  1740. 

I  received  yours,  my  fair  and  amiable  cousin,  full  of 
sweets  to  me,  for  every  fresh  mark  of  your  MendsMp 
adds  to  my  happiness  ;  though  I  could  almost  find  in  my 
heart  to  huff  you  for  flattering  me.     Your  goodness  of 
heart  makes  you  glad  to  hear  from  your  friends :   but 
when  my  dear  Pen  talks  of  my  instruoting  her^  I  could 
almost  think  you  laughed  at  me.     I  look  on  my  keep- 
ing   up    my    spirits   in   our  present    situation   as  no 
merit  of  my  own,  but  a  gift  and  blessing  from  the  hand 
of  Providence,  which  never  sends  us  more  distress  than 
what  at  the  same  time  his  Divine  power  enables  us  to 
bear.     I  speak  by  experience,  who  receive  daily  marks 
of  his  blessing  by  bestowing  on  us,  unworthy  mortals,  a 
fortitude  of  mind  to  support  our  worldly  disappoint- 
ments, which  did  we  make  a  proper  use  of,  ought  to 
instruct  us  not  to  set  our  hearts  "  on  any  child  of  man :" 
but  build  our  hope  on  a  much  surer  foundation.     Al- 
though my  thoughts  since  I  began  writing  to  my  dear  Pen 
have  been  more  celestial  than   terrestial,  still  I  think 
whilst  we  are  in  this  world  (though  not  with  too  much 
anxiety),  that  it  is  a  duty  incumbent  on  us  to  endeavour 
to  be  as  happy  as  we  can ;  and  if  our  affairs  succeed  let 
us  thank  our  great  Benefactor, — if  not,  "his  will  be 
done,"  whose  wisdom  directs  everything  for  our  good. 
Could  we  bring  ourselves  to  acquiesce  without  grumbling, 
we  should  contribute  much  to  our  present  happiness. 

By  this  time  I  hope  you  have  received  my  letter  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBa  DELANY.  Ill 

Lady  Jersey's^  answer.  I  wrote  last  post  Mrs.  Dewes 
word  my  conversation  with  the  Dachess  of  Portland  and 
should  be  obliged  to  you  if  you  would  write  your  opinion 
on  the  subject  to  her,  which  must  have  weight  on 
every  one  that  you  will  speak  your  mind  to,  for  as  you 
were  the  person  that  was  so  good  to  apply  to  my  brother 
about  a  pension,  you  are  better  able  to  judge  what 
method  will  be  most  likely  to  succeed.  Now  as  to 
Lady  B/s,  you  know  whatever  oflfer  is  made  one  in 
distress,  let  it  be  ever  so  small,  is  still  an  obligation, 
and  I  believe  I  shall  convince  you  at  present  it  is  better 
being  there  for  a  little  time  than  at  your  house  in 
town,  and  less  expensive,  and  I  do  not  know  in  what 
situation  your  house  stands,  though  I  am  told  it  is  not 
made  over  to  the  temstees.^  But  my  brother  mat/  imagine 
we  want  to  intrude  on  him,  and  a  thousand  things  that 
may  be  put  in  his  head :  for  /  carit  give  him  up,  but 
really  believe  he  has  been  ill-advised,  and  being  so  much 
reduced  himself  has  made  him  more  easily  comply  with 
his  later  behaviour  to  us.  But,  my  sweet  Pen,  I  know 
your  he^rt :  you  think  that  if  Weymouth  had  your  house 
still  in  his  hands,  he  might  be  persuaded  to  let  us  have 
it ;  but  if  it  is  still  his,  I  hope  those  will  remain  in  it  that 
make  the  ornament  of  the  place,  and  never  take  in  your 
head,  that  I  could  bear  to  be  the  occasion  of  your  leaving 


I  Aime,  danghter  of  Scroop,  Ist  Duke  of  Bridgewater,  and  relict  of 
WrioOiedey,  Duke  of  Bedford,  married  23d  June,  1733,  to  William,  3rd  Earl 
of  Jersey. 

^  It  appears  from  this  sentence,  and  others  in  this  correspondence,  that  Mrs. 
Pendarves  rented  a  house  of  Lord  Weymouth,  and  that  she  was  anxious  his 
sister  should  make  use  of  it  in  her  absence,  not  only  as  a  temporary  conve- 
nience, but  in  the  hope  Lord  Weymouth  might  be  induced  to  let  them  have 
it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


112  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

a  place  that  I  know  is  convenient  to  you :  which 
would  vex  me  much  more  than  having  a  house  rent  free 
would  do  me  good. 

I  have  wrote  two  letters  to  my  brother';  in  my  last  I 
mentioned  everything  in  as  civil  a  manner  as  I  was 
capable  of,  and  put  him  in  mind  of  our  arrears ;  but  when 
we  go  to  London,  which  please  God'  will  be  one  day 
this  week,  I  shall  see  Sir  Eobert  Worsley,  and  then  shall 
tell  him  the  situation  of  everything.  He  has  shown  more 
feeling  for  us  than  any  of  the  rest — I  mean  of  the  trustees. 
As  to  Mrs.  Petite,*  she  will  live  with  her  friend  Mrs. 
Favor  ;*  as  for  poor  Mrs.  Bourgois,^  she  says  she  can't 
bear  the  thoughts  of  leaving  us :  she  will  have  no  wages, 
but  says  she  shall  be  happy  in  doing  anything,  let  it  be 
what  it  mil,  to  serve  us.  I  know  the  tenderness  of  your 
heart,  that  you  would  not  know  what  to  say  to  anybody 
you  find  so  affectionate ;  I  am  sure  I  do  not,  for  I  am  sur- 
rounded with  many  difficulties.  God  guide  me  in  what- 
ever I  do  for  the  best !  I  always  think  of  Mr.  Pope's 
prayer  ("  Teach  me  to  feel  another's  woe.")  I  sincerely  do 
for  those  that  suffer  at  present  with  my  fall  of  fortune ; 
and  wish  /  alone  was  the  only  sufferer ;  but  let  my 
pocket  be  ever  so  low,  my  heart  will  always  be  great  in 
affection  to  my  dearest  cousin :  this  I  beg  of  you  to  be- 
lieve, as  likewise  that  I  am 

Ever  your  obliged  humble  servant, 
A.  Granville. 

Betty  is  your  humble  servant,  and  desires  hers,  and 
your  humble   servant's  compliments  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 

^  An  old  retainer  from  Long  Leat. 

«  An  old  servant. 

*  An  old  waiting-woman. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  113 

Dewes.  I  have  wrote  to  my  sister  Foley  already  about 
lacing  strait ;  she  assured  me  she  does  not  Her  jumpa^ 
will  go  next  Sunday,  and  I  dare  say  she'll  put  them  on, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Foley  come  to  London  when  the  Parhament 
meets,  which  is  the  18th  of  November. 

The  affection  which  Mrs.  Pendarves  and  her  sister  entertained 
for  the  three  daughters  of  Lord  Lansdown,  is  accounted  for  by  the 
excellent  tone  of  mind,  and  the  complete  resignation  under  their 
trials^  which  is  evident  in  the  course  of  their  correspondence,  as 
well  as  the  kind  and  forgiving  feelings  evinced  about  their  brother, 
Lord  Weymouth,  even  after  his  extravagance  had  produced  its 
usual  results  of  selfishness  and  injustice  towards  those  whom  he 
had  promised  to  support  and  protect. 


The  Horf*,  Jiirs,  Foley  to  Mrs.  Detoes, 

Newport,  Oct,  23d,  1740. 

Though  we  have  not  yet,  thank  God,  had  any  very  severe 
frost,  I  really  till  last  post  began  to  fear  the  weather  had 
been  more  violent  in  Worcestershire,  and  had  froze  my 
dear  Bradley  cousin's  fingers  up,  which  prevented  me 
having  the  satisfaction  of  either  hearing  from  you  or  your 
fair  sister.  I  was  just  going  to  inquire  what  was  the 
reason  of  so  profoimd  a  silence,  when  I  received  a  most 
sprightly  letter  from  you,  which  convinced  me  you  were 
not  quite  fallen  asleep,  and  gave  me  so  great  pleasure, 
that  it  demands  my  most  best  acknowledgments,  which 
I  desire  you  to  accept.  Miss  Foley  and  I  have  been  at 
Newport  this  fortnight ;  we  intended  returning  this  morn- 
ing to  Stoke,  but  a  deep  snow  falling  last  night,  and  a 


*  **  Jumps^  stayp. 
VOL.  II. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


114  LIFE  AND  CORBESPONDENCE 

prudent  coachman  not  caring  to  venture  to  drive,  makes 
us  remain  here  till  we  can  go  without  any  danger.  I  am 
obliged  to  you  for  your  kind  advice  to  me  to  behave  pru- 
dently and  to  be  warned  by  other's  iU.,  and  I  have  so  great 
an  opinion  of  all  you  say,  that  certainly  I  should  be  very 
cautious  of  running  into  danger.  Not  that  I  can  possibly 
think  myself  of  so  much  consequence  as  you  are  pleased 
to  tell  me  I  am,  and  I  hope  the  advice  you  give  to  others 
you  will  for  the  sake  of  your  friends  follow  yourself,  and 
not  venture  in  bad  roads,  for  fear — ^to  make  use  of  your  own 
wojds — "  The  child  unborn  may  rue  the  day."  I  hope 
you  H  not  determine  too  quickly  on  going  to  Bulstrode, 
though  if  you  think  you  may  venture  to  go  without 
doing  yourself  any  harm,  I  should  grieve  that  the  good 
Duchess  of  Portland  should  be  deprived  of  the  great  satis- 
faction it  would  give  her  of  seeing  so  valuable  a  friend ; 
and  as  then  you'll  be  amongst  so  many  experienced  people, 
that  you  can't  fail  having  a  proper  care  taken  of  you  in 
any  condition.  Therefore,  all  things  considered,  I  hope 
the  fair  sisters  will  undertake  their  journey  together ^  and 
think  then  what  pain  you  11  save  yourself  by  not  parting 
with  sweet  Penny,  for  I  know  by  experience  what  trouble 
that  gives,  and  hope  in  your  next  I  shall  hear  you  are  fixed 
to  leave  Bradley  for  some  time ;  'tis  thousand  pities  your 
oak  is  so  ill  situated ;  not  but  what  if  you  have  as  much 
cold  and  snoW  as  we  have  here,  were  it  placed  in  your 
garden  it  would  be  of  no  service  to  you. 

I  had  last  post  a  letter  from  my  dear  Violet ;  they  are 
now  at  Windsor-Castle.  It  is  very  obliging  in  the  Duke 
and  Duchess  of  Portland  to  interest  themselves  in  my 
sister's  affairs ;  they  can  have  no  other  motive  but  what 
flows  from  their  generous  hearts.     Lord  Jersey  I  know 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  115 

always  said  he  had  great  affection  for  my  sisters,  and  I 
am  glad  he  now  shows  his  friendship  by  his  actions. 
I  must  look  on  whatever  befals  so  near  relations  almost 
in  the  same  light  as  if  it  happened  to  myself.  I  am  sure 
that  is  the  way  of  thinking  my  dear  Penny  and  Mrs. 
Dewes  have,  by  the  very  grdat  share  they  have  always 
taken  in  whatever  accident  in  life  has  happened  to  us. 
With  80  many  good  friends  and  an  entire  trust  in  Provi- 
dence, I  hope  they  may  still  meet  with  a  great  deal  of 
comfort  in  this  world ;  but  it  has  been  a  most  sensible 
affliction  to  me,  to  find  those  who  I  know  to  have  so  much 
merit  meet  with  such  variety  of  Fortune's  frowns. 

I  am  glad  you  are  so  well  pleased  with  Ponto,^  and  that 
you  findhima  philosopher  amongst  many  more  perfections; 
not  but,  could  he  have  as  great  a  notion  of  philosophy  as 
you  imagine,  I  fancy  he  would  make  use  of  it  in  reflecting 
of  his  happy  change ;  for  I  must  confess  Bradley  is  a  much 
happier  castle  than  Stoke  to  Ponto,  and  he  finds  himself 
now  a  king  when  behold  a  little  while  ago  he  was  looked 
on  like  a  dog.  Our  friends  at  Stoke  are  all  well ;  Mr. 
Jackson  came  hither  yesterday,  he  teUs  me  he  has  not 
known  Mrs.  Foley  so  well  in  health  a  great  while,  which 
account  gives  me  infinite  satisfaction.  Mr.  Foley  and 
his  sister  desire  me  to  make  you  and  Mrs.  Pendarves 
their  compliments.  Pray  assure  her  of  my  warmest  wishes 
and  sincere  affection.  Dinner-beU  is  just  going  to  ring, 
and  I  not  one  bit  dressed,  so  must  conclude  in  begging 
your  behef 

Que  je  suis  toujours  votre  tres  affectionnee  Gr.  Foley. 

Mr.  Foley  and  my  best  compliment  wait  on  Mr. 
Dewes. 


'Ponto/' a  dog. 


I  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


116  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


Mrs,  Dewes  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 

Melancholy  forsaken  Bradley, 

Thursday  evening,  5  o'clock. 

There  is  a  kind  of  sorrow  that  enlarges  the  mind  and 
dissipates  all  trifling  occurrences  beyond  anything  that 
we  caU  mirth  and  merriment  can  do ;  such  is  the  present 
sorrow  that  fiUs  my  heart  at  parting  with  the  best  of 
sisters  and  most  amiable  friend.  I  feel  the  sharpest 
pangs  for  the  loss  of  her  company,  recollect  every  tender 
expression,  endearing  look  and  action,  that  by  so  many 
pleasing  ways  engaged  my  afiection,  but  at  the  same 
time  I  consider  I  should  be  unworthy  that  inestimable 
love  of  hers  if  I  did  not  root  out  as  much  weakness 
from  my  heart  as  I  can,  therefore  I  have  not  indulged 
myself  in  lamentations  to-day,  but  roused  up  my  most 
laudable  resolutions,  and  done  everything  to  divert  and 
amuse  myself.  You  was  so  cruel,  my  dear  Penny,  as  not 
to  let  me  hear  one  of  your  dear  steps  this  morning,  for 
which  I  listened  most  attentively,  but  since  you  denied  me 
that  pleasing  pain  I  composed  my  spirits,  went  to  sleep 
and  took  a  nap,  rose  with  heavy  steps,  and  came  to  the 
deserted  parlour  and  solitary  breakfast,  which  I  swallowed 
like  a  pill,  as  fast  as  I  could,  then  took  up  a  Guardian, 
then  the  Bible,  then  rummaged  upstairs,  opened  and  shut 
your  drawers  a  hundred  times,  because  they  Jiad  been  yours; 
could  bear  the  room  no  longer,  called  for  Jenny  Mare, 
went  through  many  a  slough  without  knowing  where  I 
was  till  I  arrived  at  Mrs.  Harford's,  and  her  bawling  and 
the  others  hemming  were  insupportable ;  came  home  in  a 
violent  hurry,  found  a  man  begging  for  a  fire,  considered 
the  deplorableness  of  his  case  without  fortune  and  seek- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  117 

ing  the  world  over  for  friends,  set  down  to  dull  mutton 
(riding  had  made  me  hungry) ;  Jenny  Tic  purred  out  what 
consolation  she  could,  made  SaUy  talk  to  me  all  dinner- 
time, and  after  grace  went  to  the  harpsichord,  but  could 
play  nothing  but  anthems,  and  those  horridly,  till  I  was 
happily  interrupted  by  Charles,  who  delighted  me  with 
the  good  account  of  your  safe  arrival  at  Evesham.  I  hope 
in  God  the  rest  of  your  journey  will  be  as  prosperous !  * 

And  now  I  have  told  you  all  this  day's  trans- 
actions, to  tell  you  what  my  heart  feels  of  love  and 
gratitude  no  day  or  night  can  suffice !  I  am  going  to 
drink  your  health  in  chocolate — your  own  dear  chocolate, 
shall  eat  my  egg  and  go  to  sleep  because  it  is  the  only 
way  I  can  see  you  now,  and  my  imagination  I  am  sure 
will  not  deceive  me  there.  I  hope  you  will  as  punctually 
relate  every  thought  and  action  as  I  have  done  since  we 
parted,  which  already  seems  an  age.  Miss  Hopkins  sent 
me  a  very  genteel  letter,  and  I  have  pleasure  at  the 
thought  of  her  coming,  for  I  shaU  soon  want  a  rational 
companion.  Ponto  and  Puss  do  very  well  to-day,  but 
they  will  not  serve  long,  not  but  I  think  them  more  dull 
than  usual,  all  my  family  are  sensible  of  your  loss,  and 
say  "  that  Mrs.  Pmdarves'  looks  enlivened  ihem^^  which 
recommends  them  to  my  favour. 

Since  you  are  passed  with  safety  through  our  wretched 
green  and  vale,  I  don't  apprehend  any  future  danger  in 
your  journey  ;  but  I  think  of  the  pleasure  you  will  have 
at  Bulstrode,  the  consolation  and  advantage  you  will  be 
to  poor  Violet.^ 

But  as  if  all  melancholy  things  conspired  together  this 


*  The  Uonourablo  A*  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


118  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

day,  I  have  just  received  a  sad  account  of  a  poor  man 
(son-in-law  to  our  farrier)  who  was  found  dead  this  morn- 
ing under  a  hedge,  by  Fishers — a  house  at  the  end  of  our 
green  that  you  went  by  to  Hanbury.  There  was  a  man 
with  him  just  alive  enough  to  give  this  account,  that  they 
were  going  by  that  place  last  night  when  a  woman  on 
horseback  was  stuck  in  a  slough.  They  helped  her  out, 
she  rewarded  them  with  a  bottle  of  what  she  called  brandy. 
They  drank  it  all  up  immediately,  and  one  never  waked 
agamy  the  other  is  very  ill !  all  the  art  of  our  wise  legis- 
lators cannot  prevent  the  mischief  of  those  direful  drams 
that  in  some  shape  or  other  walk  round  the  world ;  but 
they  will  never  do  you  any  harm.^ 

1  hate  to  leave  you,  though  you  know  how  many  letters 
I  have  upon  my  hands,  and  particularly  our  lovely 
Queen^  to  whom  I  will  do  myself  the  honour  of  writing 
next  post,  and  then  I  shall  not  write  to  you  because  you 
will  hear  of  me ;  I  hope  change  of  air  will  cure  George's 
cold,  my  kind  wishes  attend  her.  I  rejoice  to  think  you 
have  got  Dapper  in  a  whole  skin  with  all  his  own  under- 
standing again,  and  I  am  quite  concerned  that  I  took  no 
leave  of  Joe. 

Mrs.  Dewes  was  at  this  time  alone  at  Bradley,  while  Mr.  Dewes 
was  spending  the  six  weeks  in  London  to  which  she  had  before 
alluded,  and  which  was  entailed  by  his  profession  of  the  law,  his 
elder  brother  being  then  alive. 


^  Mra.  Delany  nsed  to  say  she  never  habitnated  herself  to  wine  in  her  yonih ; 
that  such  stimulants  were  not  required. 
'  '*  Queeiiy^*  a  nickname  for  the  Duchess  of  Portland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  119 

Lady  J7irockmort(/n  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Weston,  November  Gth,  1740. 

I  was  quite  charmed  to  find  by  my  dearest  Nancy's 
kind  letter  tliat  she  is  desirous  our  friendship  may  still 
continue ;  for  I  think  I  can  answer  that  it  will  never 
fail  on  my  side,  but  I'll  leave  this  point  to  be  more 
fully  discussed  when  we  meet,  which  I  wish  heartily  may 
be  very  soon.  I  am  persuaded  Newport  Pagnell  is  the 
road  from  Bradley  to  London,  and  I  fancy  Mr.  Dewes 
might  easily  contrive  to  leave  you  here  in  his  way 
thither,  which  I  am  sure  would  make  me  very  happy, 
and  not  less  so  my  own  Sir  Eobert,  who  always  maintains  a 
most  sincere  respect  for  a  person  he  calls  "Pro^^c^,"  whom 
he  often  talks  of  with  great  pleasure  :  he  is  at  present  at 
liondon,  and  left  me  a  melancholy  widow.  I  wish  you 
were  here  to  comfort  me,  for  by  this  time  I  guess  you'll 
have  learnt  to  pity  these  kind  of  aflBictions,  which  you 
had  not  much  notion  of  before :  but  strange  things  do 
ensue  upon  the  change  of  a  state.  I  am  quite  glad  to 
hear  from  all  hands  you  have  so  fair  a  prospect  of  happi- 
ness, and  long  to  see  you  in  your  "  cot "  (as  you  call  it), 
between  the  two  aged  oaks,  the  description  of  which 
delights  me.  You  are  quite  in  the  right  to  prefer  it  to 
equipages  and  state,  for  those  kind  of  things,  according 
to  my  way  of  thinking,  were  only  made  to  hinder  the 
enjoyment  of  life. 

I  have  a  distant  view  of  seeing  you  at  your  own 
house  next  summer,  for  we  talk  of  spending  part  of  it 
at  Coughton,*  which  will  make  me  infinitely  happy  if 
you  are  at  Bradley ;  though  I  hope  to  see  you  here  first, 

>  Goughton,  in  Warwickshire,  the  old  family  place  of  the  Thnx^kmortons. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


120  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  beg  you'll  have  some  serious  thoughts  of  it.  But  I  am 
almost  affronted  at  you  for  taking  me  to  be  so  fine  a  lady 
as  not  to  mind /am%  affairs,  which  I  take  to  be  the  only 
sphere  a  woman  can  possibly  shine  in,  therefore  come  here, 
and  I'll  show  you  your  mistake,  for  you'll  find  me  as  errant 
a  country  Joan  as  ever  frequented  a  hen-house  or  dairy. 

I  imagine  by  this,  Penny  is  at  Bulstrode ;  and  hope 
she  had  a  good  journey.  I  pity  you  for  losing  her,  but 
not  so  much  as  usual  now  you  have  got  a  comforter.  You 
are  very  good  to  enquire  after  my  health,  of  which  I 
cannot  brag  much  though  I  don't  want  for  spirits,  particu- 
larly when  I  am  writing  to  you.  But  I  must  now  bid 
you  adieu,  and  go  see  what's  doing  in  the  cheese-^hainher 
and  the  appU-loft.  Pay  my  compliments  to  Mr.  Dewes, 
and  believe  me,  my  dear  Anna, 

Your  faithM 

Kitty. 

Pray  write  soon  a  long  letter. 


Mr9.  Fdey  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  at  Bradley,  near  Droitwich,  in  Worcestershire, 

Stoke,  Nov.  11th,  1740. 

I  am,  my  dearest  Mrs.  Dewes,  quite  out  of  patience 
with  your  post,  for  your  letter  dated  the  4th  I  did  not 
receive  till  last  night,  and  one  you  mention  to  have 
wrote  in  answer  to  mine  never  came  to  my  hands :  can 
you  blame  me  for  being  anxious,  and  indeed  a  little 
uneasy,  to  be  six  whole  weeks  and  never  hear  one  word 
from  a  person  so  dear  to  me  as  you  are.  I  should  be 
very  sorry  to  add  to  your  grief,  but  my  friendship  for 
you  is  so  tender  that  if  I  in  the  least  suspect  a  dimi* 
nution  of  it,  I  am  more  desperate  than  it  is  possible  for  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY  121 

lover  to  be  in  that  case,  and  in  my  hurry  of  spirits  say 
things  that  afterwards  give  me  concern — as  giving  you 
the  least  pain  always  does.  Human  nature  is  so  perverse 
it  often  makes  our  greatest  happiness  the  cause  of  trouble, 
and  instead  of  presenting  to  our  minds  thoughts  that  are 
agreeable,  is  ever  raising  phantoms  that  teaze  and  alarm ; 
and  maogre  all  our  care;  'tis  not  always  in  one's  power  to 
be  proof  against  them,  especially  in  regard  to  those  we 
love.  Friendship,  though  the  greatest  of  all  earthly 
blessings,  is  not  without  aUoy,  which  shows  there's  no 
such  thing  as  happiness  on  this  side  of  the  grave.  You 
wiU  perhaps  say  "  these  are  trovbUs  of  your  own  making, 
and  they  may  he  avoided^'  but  though  one  may  endeavour 
at  it,  yet  it  is  wholly  impossible  to  be  a  stoic  in  friend- 
ship, and  ten  thousand  different  cares  and  fears  wiU  arise 
even  whilst  with  one's  friends — ^how  much  more  at  a 
distance,  when  one  raises  a  devil  without  thinking  how 
impossible  it  is  to  lay  him  f 

I  confess  ingenuously  to  you,  there  is  but  one  person  in 
the  world  for  whom  I  have  a  greater  regard  than  yourself; 
judge  then  by  your  own  heart  if  a  short  formal  letter  now 
and  then  (after  so  many  years  corresponding  in  quite  a 
different  manner)  was  not  sufficient  ground  for  jealousy ; 
and  to  deal  plainly  with  you,  I  cannot  with  common 
patience  think  of  giving  the  least  bit  of  your  heart  that 
ever  I  was  possessed  of  even  to  Mr.  Dewes  himself.  H 
you  give  me  but  the  shadow  of  a  reason  to  think  I  am 
in  danger  of  it,  you  must  expect  to  be  reproached,  for 
when  the  cup  is  fiill  it  wiU  run  over ;  and  though  I  thank 
God  I  can  give  up  most  things  else  without  repining,  it 
is  impossible  for  me  upon  any  consideration  to  part  with 
your  jFriendship — so  don't  be  so  barbarous  to  rob  me  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


122  LIFE  AND  COHRESPONDBNCE 

least  bit  of  almost  the  one  thing  necessary  to  my  well- 
being  here.  As  I  know  how  much  you  suffer  at  parting 
with  those  you  love,  I'll  not  renew  or  aggravate  your 
grief  by  condoling,  but  must  teU  you  I  am  quite  miser- 
able at  your  being  so  much  alone.  Have  you  not  one 
agreeable  neighbour  to  be  with  you?  I  should  have 
thought  even  at  Christmas  you  might  have  come  from 
Bulstrode,  and  suppose  your  roads  are  passable  for  a 
horse  at  any  time ;  but  I  forget  myself,  and  it  may  be 
improper  for  you  to  venture :  but  I  desire  you'll  be  pleased 
to  contrive  your  call  to  London  when  all  your  friends  are 
there,  and  not  be  so  awkward  as  to  be  there  when  you 
can  see  nobody  but  your  nurses.  Our  sweet  Primrose^ 
is  quite  angry  with  you  for  burying  yourself,  and  wishes 
you  would  come  to  town,  if  it  is  merely  to  see  her. 

I  am  in  great  hopes  we  shall  contrive  to  go  to  town 
together.  The  Parliament  meets  the  eighteenth,  but 
I  don't  suppose  any  business  wiU  be  done  till  the 
holydays  are  over,  and  London  agrees  so  little  either 
with  our  pockets  or  inclinations,  that  we  shall  not  be 
there  longer  than  needs  must.  I  believe  this  is  the 
last  visit  we  shall  make  it  for  some  time,  for  Mr.  Foley 
seems  resolved  not  to  be  in  the  House  again.  By  the 
time  we  go  up  I  suppose  Mr.  Dewes  will  be  coming 
down,  and  am  afraid  we  shall  be  as  like  buckets  as  your 
brother  and  I  were  for  many  years.  We  have  not 
settled  where  we  shall  be,  but  have  wrote  about  a  house 
in  Suffolk  Street  that  has  been  inhabited  all  the  year,  for 
I  don't  suppose  I  shall  have  two  days'  notice  of  going, 
and  we  are,  I  think,  too  much  invalids  to  go  into  an 
unaired  house.      I  find  Miss  Granvilles   are   gone  to 

*  Grace  Foley,  born  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  123 

Windsor  Castle ;  I  am  charmed  with  their  behaviour  on 
this  melancholy  ocasion,  and  do  sincerely  think  that  even 
a  primitive  Christian  could  not  have  shown  more  resig- 
nation, and  in  short  every  other  virtue  that  the  circum- 
stance requires,  in  greater  perfection  than  Miss  Granville 
has,  and  if  I  only  wished  to  serve  her  before,  I  am  quite 
miserable  not  to  be  able  to  do  it  now :  however,  I'm  de- 
termined no  endeavours  of  mine  shall  be  wanting,  though 
sdas !  the  power  I  am  afraid  will.  My  regard  for  my 
dearest  Anna  made  me  a  well-wisher  to  every  branch  of 
her  £ajnily,  but  the  behaviour  of  our  dear  Primrose,^  her 
sweetness  of  temper,  goodness  of  heart,  and  iu  short 
every  other  amiable  quality,  joined  to  the  desire  she 
seems  to  have  (and  which  I  dare  answer  for  her  being 
sincere  in,  as  I  think  she  has  not  the  least  guile)  of 
promoting  the  harmony  I  ever  wished  to  see  subsist  in 
this  family^  will  entirely  attach  me  to  them,  and  make 
it  impossible  for  me  not  to  bear  a  share  in  whatever 
relates  to  those  who  are  so  marly  aBied  to  her. 

I  have  been  so  often  interrupted  since  I  began  this,  that 
I  don't  believe  it  is  possible  for  you  to  even  guess  at  my 
meaning ;  but  as  you  are  quite  alone  it  will  serve  to  amuse 
you  for  want  of  better  entertainment.  I  have  a  notion  your 
house  affairs,  when  you  have  modelled  them,  will  be  an 
epitome  of  goodness,  but  it  "must  be  provided  you  take  none 
of  your  maxims  from  me.  Tour  partiality  to  me  makes 
you  imagine  that  many  rules  of  my  laying  down,  which  are 
merely  the  effect  of  stupidity,  are  right  in  fact,  but  if 
you  put  them  in  practice  you  U  find  them  only  calculated 


1  **  Primrose/*  "  Fwfe<,"  and  "  Daisy,  were  the  names  by  which  Mary  and 
Ann  Granville  designated  their  three  cousins — Grace,  Ann,  and  Elizabeth, 
the  daughters  of  George  Lord  Lansdowne. . 


Digitized  by 


Google 


124  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

for  my  own  indolent  way  of  thinking,  for  they  cannot 
make  anybody  happy  that  has  good  sense  and  vivacity. 
I  assure  yon  the  indiflference  I  show  in  the  manage- 
ment of  my  house,  and  in  aU  my  other  affairs,  is  more 
owing  to  a  want  of  application,  joined  to  the  two  other 
qualities  just  now  mentioned,  than  to  any  merit  of  mine ; 
and  that  which  passes  with  you  for  good  conduct  is 
nothing  but  an  insensibility,  which  I  acknowledge  as  a 
fault,  though  I  fear  I  shall  ncrt  be  able  to  mend. ,  If 
Griffiths  hears  of  a  servant  that  she  thinks  will  do,  she'll 
let  you  know.  She  is  now  settled  in  her  house  at  Here- 
ford, my  father  has  behaved  extremely  well  to  her,  and 
received  her  with  as  much  kindness  as  if  she  had  never 
offended,  and  they  have  seen  one  another  most  days. 
But  I  m  afraid  they  will  not  continue  to  do  so  long,  for 
the  Captain  is  coming  home,  and  I  reckon  his  pride 
and  ill-temper  will  soon  knock  all  harmony  on  the  head. 
Tour  little  sweetheart  is  still  with  me,  but  I  am  to 
deliver  up  my  charge  this  week,  which  I  shall  be  sorry  for. 
Our  church  is  at  last  covered  in,  and  the  outside 
workmen,  after  much  plague,  discharged ;  they  are  pro- 
ceeding within  as  fast  as  possible.  We  have  the  pleasure 
of  thinking  it  will  be  very  handsome  and  warm  too,  which 
to  us  invalids  is  no*  small  recommendation.  It  will  be 
great  joy  to  see  it  finished,  for  it  is  a  very  disagreeable 
thing  to  go  so  far  to  church,  and  this  winter-time  it  is 
impossible  for  the  maid-servants  to  go  constantly.  I 
think  that's  an  inconvenience  you  have  at  Bradley. 
It  will  be  great  pleasure  to  me  to  hear  Penny  is  got  safe 
to  Bulstrode,  though  I  don't  expect  a  letter  from  her  now 
she's  at  a  distance  from  you,  for  if  the  Duchess  gives  hei 
up  at  all,  it  will  only  be  whilst  she  can  write  to  you,  but 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  125 

I  hope  to  have  the  pleasure  of  snatching  her  for  a  few 
moments  when  we  get  to  town,  though  that  is  a  difficulty ; 
but  I  can*t  blame  people  for  doing  what  I  most  certainly 
should,  had  I  as  much  rhetorick  and  entertainment  as 
they  have.  I  think  I  have  heard  you  say  you  had 
patience  to  read  the  Fairy  Tales,  so  have  some  hopes  you'U 
not  commit  this  to  the  flames  till  I  have  assured  you  how 
angry  soever  I  was  when  I  wrote  last  I  am  now  as 
pacific  as  the  Cardinal^  and  'tis  impossible  for  me  to 
cease  to  be 

Dear  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Most  sincerely  affectionate 

E.  FOLET.' 

P.S.  Please  to  put  ''post  town  at  Gloster''  upon 
your  letters ;  if  they  don't  come  safe  then,  we  ivill  try  by 
way  of  London.  I  am  charged  with  particular  compli- 
ments from  all  here,  but  as  they  are  too  numerous  to  par- 
ticularize, you  must  be  content  with  being  assured  they 
are  all  your  humble  servants.  Your  Cousin  Foley  went 
to  Newport  to-day,  but  as  he  left  his  Grace  behind  him, 
I  hope  to  see  him  again  soon ;  poor  Mrs.  Bloxham  has 
been  almost  wild  with  her  teeth,  has  had  three  drawn, 
and  I  am  afraid  must  part  with  a  fourth,  which  she  talks 
very  calmly  of,  she  is  really  very  ill. 


»  Elizabeth,  fourth  wife  of  ITiomas  Foley,  Esq.,  of  Stoke  Edith,  Hereford- 
shire, was  the  daughter  of  Robert  Unett,  Esq.,  of  Birch  wood,  and  sister  of 
IMary  Unett,  alluded  to  in  this  letter  as  being  **  settled  in  her  house  in  Ilcrc- 
ford^"  who  married  Captain  Richard  Foley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


126  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  EonJ^  Mrs.  Foley  to  Mrs.  Detoes. 

Stoke,  Nov.  18tli,  1740. 

Had  not  last  night's  post  brought  me  a  very  obliging 
epistle  from  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  I  should  have  followed 
my  inclination,  and  not  so  far  have  stood  on  ceremony  as 
to  punish  myself  so  much  as  not  to  have  this  post  enquired 
after  you  in  your  solitude,  but  must  now  add  my  thanks 
for  the  favour  of  yours.  Though  a  mind-like  yours,  with 
all  the  ingenious  employments  you  are  mistress  of,  can 
never  be  as  miserable  without  company  as  the  generality 
of  people  are,  I  must  own  your  present  sohtary  situation, 
and  your  description  of  it,  is  enough  to  give  your- friends 
the  spleen  to  hear  of  it,  let  them  be  ever  so  gaily  in- 
cUned.  It  was  great  grief  to  both  Mrs.  Foley  and  me  at 
reading  your  dismal  account  of  the  badness  of  your  roads, 
that  it  is  impossible  for  us  now  to  meet,  and  have  it  only 
left  us  in  our  power  to  repine  at  being  so  far  apart  from 
one  whose  company  would  make  us  all  happy.  What  an 
uncomfortable  situation  is  this !  Do  endeavour,  my  dear 
cousin,  to  make  it  quite  pleasant  to  us  all,  and  remove 
your  quarters  to  this  side  of  the  world, 

Mr.  and  Mrs.  Foley  desires  me  to  tell  you  of  a  place 
which  is  now  to  be  sold,  between  Newport  and  Stoke, 
an  extremely  pretty  house  and  gardens,  much  about  the 
size  you'd  choose.  It  is  three  mile  from  Hereford,  and 
surrounded  with  good  roads  you  may  now  walk  there  in 
your  slippers,  it  being  on  a  gravel.  The  estate  about  it  is 
two  hundred  pounds  a  year,  which  is,  I  fancy,  near  the  pxu> 
chase  you  would  choose  to  have ;  the  name  of  the  place 
is  Burjield.  Perhaps  Mr.  Dewes  may  think  it  ioo  far 
from  London,   but  it  will  never  be  a  day's  difference 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  127 

more  than  he  is  obliged  to  be  now,  and  the  situation 
must  be  much  more  agreeable  to  you  than  Bradley, 
indeed  I  shall  fear  thalf  Bradley  will  not  be  healthy  in 
the  winter,  for  in  so  dirty  a  country  it  must  be  intoler- 
ably damp,  and  you  not  able  to  use  any  exercise,  though 
perhaps  it  won't  be  proper  for  you  to  use  much,  as  you  are 
always  very  prudent.  I  did  believe,  besides  other  2:)arti- 
cidar  reasons,  that  it  was  your  prudence  which  hindered 
your  going  this  winter  to  London,  but  as  Mr.  Dewes  is 
to  be  there,  I  can't  imagine  anybody  could  have  found 
&ult  with  it.  By  your  complaisant  obliging  behaviour 
I  am  sure  you  won't  feil  of  gaining  the  hearts  and  affec- 
tion of  all  your  new  relations ;  in  your  case  I  am  sure  it  is 
your  own  merit  which  wiU  make  you  esteemed,  where,  as 
in  my  own  case^  I  am  sensible  it  is  Mr.  Foley's  partiahty 
which  makes  him  behave  in  the  obliging  manner  he  does 
to  me,  for  were  he  to  see  impartially,  alas !  I  fear  I 
could  expect  but  a  small  share  of  the  good  opinion  I 
have  now  great  reason  to  think  he  has  of  me.  His  own 
temper  is  so  good,  and  that,  joined  to  a  great  share  of 
good  sense,  which  makes  it  entirely  my  own  fault  were  I 
not  happy,  and  indeed  you  was  not  at  all  mistaken  in  the 
opinion  you  had  of  his  worthiness ;  and  to  give  my  dear 
Mrs.  Dewes  her  due,  she  seldom  fails  in  her  judgment 
of  anything  she  thinks  worth  her  while  to  consider. 

I  rejoiced  to  hear  our  dear  Penny  got  safe  to  Bulstrode. 
Mrs.  Foley  has  had  a  letter  from  her,  wherein  she  says 
she  has  seen  my  sisters,  and  that  they  are  very  well; 
God  grant  success  to  whatever  their  friends  undertake 
for  them !  My  heart  has  equally*  shared  with  them 
the  frowns  of  fortune  they  have  met  with,  for  one's 
own  prosperity  can  never  make  one  suffer  with  less  pain 
the  adversity  of  our  friends ;  but  as  to  my  sister  Gran- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


128  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

ville/ 1  love  her  so  very  sincerelr/  that  I  look  on  all  events 
of  fortune  which  happen  to  her,  as  the  same  as  if  I  person- 
ally felt  the  same  inconveniencies  from  them.  I  shall  he 
very  happy  to  see  them  and  dear  Penny,  which  will  be  the 
second  week  of  January.  When  Mr.  Foley  goes  to  town, 
we  shall  remove  to  Newport;  Miss  Foley  insists  on. 
staying  with  me,  and  I  shall  be  very  much  pleased  with 
her  company,  but  at  the  same  time  shall  be  sorry  she  de- 
prives herself  in  being  from  Mrs.  Foley,  which  must  natu- 
rally be  more  to  her  advantage  and  more  agreeable,  being 
in  London.     All  here  make  you  their  compliments. 

Thank  God  the  cold  bath  does,  I  think,  agree  with  our 
good  friend  Mrs.  Foley,  which  is  a  great  blessing,  and  no 
one  has  greater  reason  to  rejoice  at  it  than  myself:  I 
really  look  on  her  quite  as  a  treasure  to  this  family. 
She  favours  me  with  a  particular  friendship,  which  I  most 
sincerely  esteem,  and  shall  ever  make  it  my  study  never 
to  forfeit  what  I  really  so  much  value.  She  has  so  great 
a  sincerity  of  heart  and  tenderness  for  those  she  professes 
a  friendship  for,  that  it  is  impossible  the  more  one  knows 
her  not  to  have  one's  kindness  increase  for  her.  She  lives 
with  me  really  more  like  a  sister  than  as  one  who  has  but 
newly  come  into  the  family,  and  I  can  boast  of  no  merit 
to  deserve  the  indulgence  shown  me  by  so  worthy  a 
person. 

Your  good  mama  has  been  so  obliging  to  get  me  a  bit 
of  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester's  purple  bed ;  I  think,  of  the 
sort,  it  is  the  most  liandsome  stuff  I  ever  saw,  and  intend 
furnishing  our  apartment  in  town  with  it  in  yellow. 
You  are,  my  dear  cousin,  quite  in  the  right  in  say- 
ing "Mr.  Dewes  knows  how  to  distinguish  things 
excellent,"  that   I   can   easily  judge   by  his   choosing 

*  The  Honourable  Ann  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  129 

you.  My  paper  puts  me  in  mind  that  it  is  time  to  con- 
clude ;  my  inclination  would  be  to  say  a  great  deal  more, 
but  only  now  have  time  to  assure  you,  ma  tres  chere, 
that  I  am 

Tours  most  aflfectionately, 

Gt.  Foley. 


Mrs,  Dewes  to  Lady  Throckmorton, 

Bradley,  28  Nov.  1740. 

I  received  my  dearest  Lady  Throck's  last  favour  at 
Mapleborough,^  where  I  love  to  go  because  it  is  nearer 
Coughton  than  this  place.  How  happy  shall  I  be  to  see 
you  there  this  summer  1  And  when  you  condescend  to 
bless  our  humble  Oak,  I  shall  envy  none  who  are  pos- 
sessed of  a  palace  without  such  delightful  company. 
How  good  you  are  to  wish  me  at  Weston !  where  I 
certainly  would  be,  had  I  wings ;  but  without  an  aerial 
conveyance  it  is  impossible  to  pass  the  sloughs  and  dirt 
of  this  country,  which  in  that  particular  is  quite  abominable. 
I  hope  by  this  time  your  own  Sir  Eobert  is  returned, 
for  I  find  you  can  but  ill  support  his  absence.  'Till  I  have 
been  married  as  long  as  you  have,  I  must  not  yet  pretend 
to  comply  of  separation;  but  a^  I  like  Mr.  Dewes's  com- 
pany, I  had  rather  he  was  at  home  than  abroad,  which  he 
has  been  these  three  weeks.  He  and  Fenny  left  me  to- 
gether ;  she  stopped  at  Bulstrode,  where  I  should  have 
gone,  but  the  badness  of  the  roads  to  come  back  frighted 
me.  Mr.  Dewes  \vill  return  before  Xmas ;  and  did  he 
know  where  Sir  Eobert  was  in  London  he  would  wait 


^  Ifaplebury,  in  Warwickshire,  the  residence  of  Mr.  Dewes's  father  and 
mother. 

VOL.  II.  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


130  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

upon  him.  I  spent  a  whole  week  at  Mapleborough,  and 
am  very  kindly  treated  by  my  new  friends,  who  are  plain 
but  good  sort  of  people :  politesse,  to  be  sure,  is  much 
more  engaging,  but  one  can't  have  everything  to  one's 
wish,  and  in  general  I  have  great  reason,  and  am  quite 
satisfied  with  my  new  state  of  life.  I  am  much  diverted 
with  the  description  of  your  employments,  and  should  be 
excessively  glad  to  see  you  routing  about  your  mansion. 
Is  Mrs.  CoUingwood  with  you?  and  how  does  Miss 
Throckmorton  like  England  ?  You  must  excuse  ques- 
tions, but  where  one  loves  it  is  natural  to  be  inquisitive, 
and  that  I  love  the  ever-dear  and  charming  Kitty,  I 
hope  I  need  make  no  profession  now,  but  yet  I  like  to 
repeat  it. 

I  rejoice  to  hear  by  Penny,  that  our  dear  Duchess 
is  well.  I  wonder  all  the  Garters  are  disposed  of  and 
the  Duke  of  Portland  left  out. 

Do  you  not  mourn  for  the  Czarina  ?^  I  do  :  though  many 
women  deserve  to  be  great,  there  are  so  few  raised 
according  to  their  merit,  that  when  a  woman  shines  as 
she  did,  I  wish  her  to  maintain  the  post  a  great  while. 
But  all  human  things  are  transitory,  and  must  change ; 
empires  fall,  and  birth  nor  beauty  cannot  turn  aside  the 
shafts  of  death ;  but  love  and  friendship  are  immortal,  and 
the  union  of  souls  founded  upon  virtue  will  last  for  ever, 
and  shine  in  future  glory  ;  even  when  the  sun  and  stars 
shall  fail,  those  bright  sparks  remain.     Continue,  there- 


*  The  following  notice  appeared,  under  "  Foreign  Affairs,"  in  a  paper  of 
November,  1740 : — "  The  late  Empress  having  conversed  much  with  foreigners, 
and  understanding  their  languages,  she  protected  the  strangers  that  were  in- 
vited to  Russia  by  Peter  I.,  favoured  the  arts  and  sciences  that  then  began 
to  flourish  there,  and  governed  according  to  the  maxims  of  that  truly  great 
monarch." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  131 

fore,  to  love  me,  my  dearest  Lady  Throck,  for  I  shall 
ever  be, 

Tour  constant  and  affectionate,         Nancy. 

Prospect  will  always  be  glad  to  be  remembered  kindly 
by  Sir  Eobert,  for  whom  she  has  a  real  value  and  esteem, 
upon  a  double  account, — ^his  own  merit,  and  belonging 
to  you.  Where  is  Mr.  Morrell  ?  and  have  you  taken 
any  pains  about  music  ?  Did  I  tell  you  that  Mr,  Dewes 
has  presented  me  with  a  very  fine  harpsichord,  which 
tempts  me  to  play  more  than  ever ;  but  it  gave  me  more 
delight  from  my  sister's  fingers  than  my  own.  I  could 
be  quite  angry  with  you  for  supposing  anything  can 
lessen  my  grief  at  parting  with  her. 

Do  you  ever  hear  from  sweet-singing  Birch  ? 


Lady  Elisabeth  Cavendish  Bmitinck}  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Bulstrode,  23  Nov.,  1740. 

Dear  Pip, 

I  love  you  with  all  my  heart.  Mrs.  Elstob  gives 
her  service  to  you.  I  thank  you  for  the  pretty  letter  you 
sent  me  by  Penny.  I  learn  very  well  the  Common 
Prayer-book  and  Bible,  and  have  almost  got  by  heart  the 
Turtle  and  Sparrow.  Papa  and  mama's  best  compliments 
to  you.  I  have  learnt  Molly  Mog  of  the  Rose,  and  am 
learning  now  the  English  grammar.  I  should  be  very 
glad  to  see  you,  and  am 

My  dear  Pip,  your  affectionate  friend 

Elizabeth  Cavendish  Bentinck. 


1  '^  Lady  Elizaheth  Cavendish  Bentinck"    Eldest  daughter  of  the  Ducbes» 
of  Portland,  afterwards  Lady  Weymouth. 

K  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


132  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  Marquis  of  Titchfidd  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Bulstrode,  30  Nov.,  1740. 

Dear  Pip, 
Dear  Pip, 

I  wish  you  was  here  to  play  at  hoop  with  me,  and 
sisters  and  sister  Peggy.  I  have  got  a  gold  coach-and- 
six  papa  gave  me,  and  the  horses  are  two  dragons,  two 
sober-sides,  and  two  snips ;  but  you  are  too  big  to  ride  in 
my  coach.  "  Tantive  "  that's  the  hunting  song, — I  can  sing 
it  all.     My  love  and  Mss  to  you.      That's  aU  from  your 

Affectionate  servant, 

TiCHFIELD.' 


Miss  Robinson  writes  December  2nd  to  Mrs.  Donellan  from  Bul- 
strode. 

"Madame  Pen  is  copying  Sacharissa's^  picture  from 
Vandyck,  and  does  it  with  that  felicity  of  genius  that 
attends  her  in  aU  her  performances.  I  beUeve,  could 
Waller  see  it,  he  would  begin  to  make  new  verses  on 
her,  and  ask  of  the  picture,  as  he  does  of  the  image  of 
his  dream — 

*  Where  could'st  thou  find 
Shades  to  counterfeit  that  face  ?' 

If  Sacharissa  could  have  known  ^the  Stella^  of  a  future 
age  would  have  copied  her  picture,  I  should  not  have 
blamed  her  for  sitting  for  it ;  but  for  her,  who  knew  not 
such  ftiture  honours  would  attend  her,  to  sit  to  a  mer^ 


>  The  Marquis  of  Titchfield,  brother  of  Lady  Elizabeth  Cavendish  Bentinck, 
and  grandfather  to  the  present  Duke  of  Portland,  (1860.) 

'  "  8ac?iaris8a*8  pictureJ^  This  picture  is  in  the  possession  of  the  Editor, 
and  was  copied  from  Vandyck's  original,  which  was  lent  to  Mrs.  Pendarves  by 
a  relation  of  Waller's,  then  residing  at  Beaconsfield. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


> 


''osrc/:  /J/va  k-  .:  c 


'^nv^^hm  ^^::^vw'c:i  ^■/4-''J^.:f^lDGi-D^^ 


"^'Af'^^?'?- 


^V.  >'/.    JZf,/.  /^-K^y    ,<  y 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  133 

cenary  artist,  after  she  had  been  so  pourtrayed  in  never- 
dying  verse,  and  to  wish  to  give  any  other  impression  of 
her  face,  was  ill-judged ;  the  lover  and  the  poet  make 
the  fairest  and  most  beautiful  representations.  From 
Vandyck  you  judge  she  was  a  pretty  woman,  but  from 
Waller  you  imagine  she  was  a  charming  goddess ;  and 
surely  immortal  verse  is  the  Elysium  of  vanity !" 


Jtfrs.  Pendarves  to  the  Lady  ThrockmorUm,  <U  Wesion,  near  Oul/ney,  Bucks. 

Bulstrode,  5  Dec ,  1740. 

I  am  sure  you  must  have  thought  me  a  most  unman- 
nerly as  well  as  imgrateftil  creature,  to  have  been  so  long 
without  making  my  best  acknowledgments  to  yolPmy 
dear  Lady  Throck.  aod  to  Sir  Robert,  for  the  crayons ;  it 
was  excessively  good  and  obliging  in  you  both  to  remem- 
ber me.  I  was  told  you  had  such  a  favour  for  me,and  I 
waited  till  I  could  give  your  Ladyship  an  account  of  my 
having  received  them:  they  are  not  yet  come  to  my 
house ;  it  is  very  likely  they  may  have  been  brought,  and 
my  servant  not  in  the  way  to  take  them.  I  was  much 
rejoiced  at  the  sight  of  your  dear  hand  again,  being  con- 
scious how  little  I  deserved  such  a  mark  of  your  remem- 
brance ;  but  this  has  been  an  extraordinary  year  of  hurry 
with  me,  and  my  mind  has  had  as  little  rest  as  my  body. 

Were  I  to  describe  the  variety  of  scenes  and  countries 
I  have  passed  through  I  should  swell  my  letter  to  an  un- 
reasonable size,  and  fatigue  you  as  mudi  as  if  you  had 
been  my  fellow-traveller,  but  not  entertain  you  so  weU. 
But  to  crown  all  my  toils,  Ihope  I  may  venture  to  say  I  do 
think  my  sister  happily  settled.  You  that  have  a  tender 
heart,  my  dear  CoUy,  (I  can't  give  up  the  much  loved 


Digitized  by 


Google 


134  LIFE  AND  CX)RBBSPONDENCE 

name),  can  easily  gaesB  what  agitation  of  spirits  I  have 
been  under,  for  marriage  is  serious  and  hcLzardous,  and 
you  know  what   my  fondness  is  for   my  sister.     You 
say  very  right,  I  am  extremely  happy  at  Bulstrode,  and 
'tis  Bulstrode  alone  that  could  make  me  cheerful  and 
easy  when  parted  from  my  sister.     But  as  our  joys  circu- 
late very  fast,  urine  will  ebb  as  well^fi  flow,  and  London — 
odious  London  will  rob  me  of  the  delight  I  now  enjoy. 
That  little  exclamation  against  the  renowned  metropolis 
is  entre  nous,  for  I  would  not  openly  declare  my  thoughts 
on  that  subject  for  fear  of  being  hissed  off  of  the  stage  as 
soon  as  I  made  my  appearance  again.   I  hear  what  would 
be  whispered  about  me  with  a  shrug  of  the  shoulders, 
"  temy^TS  ago  she  was  of  aiiother  mind — you  may  see  the 
reason  pTmrdy  in  her  face''   Let  them  talk  as  they  please,  I 
shall  silently  keep  to  my  own  opinion,  and  cannot  see 
and  hear  everybody  admire  our  dear  Duchess  without 
sighing,  that  she  should  be  everybody's  more  than  mine, 
for  her  conversation  is  really  so  great   a  pleasure  and 
advantage,  that  I  must  regret  the  days  and  hours  that 
destine  it  to  a  crowd.     She  is  very  well  and  most  sin- 
cerely and  affectionatly  her  dear  CoUy's.     Fidget  is  a 
most  entertaining  creature,   but  as   I  believe  you  are 
better  acquainted  with  her  than  I  am  I  shall  not  attempt 
to  draw  a  likeness  :  she  would  prove  too  difficult  a  task 
for  my  pen  as  well  as  pencil ;  for  there  are  some  delicate 
touches  that  would  foil  the  skill  of  a  much  abler  artist 
than  I  pretend  to  be.     I  am  called  away  and  can  only 
add  the  compliments  of  this  house,  and  my  own  in  par- 
ticular to  Sir  Eobert  and  Mrs.  CoUingwood. 
I  am  ever  dearest  Lady  Throck.'s 

Most  affectionate  and  faithful,    M.  Pkndarvks. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  BELANY. 


135 


Mifis  Bobinson,  writing  to  her  sister  from  Bubtrode,  says : — 

"  I  cannot  add  much  to  the  length  of  this,  for  I  am  to 
preach  elsewhere.  The  Duchess  and  Mrs.  Pendarves 
are  expecting  me  above  to  read  a  sermon,  which,  as 
un&shionable  as  it  is,  I  have  the  courage  to  own  amongst 
friends." 

In  another  letter  she  says  to  Mrs.  Donellan. 

"  If  the  world  be  made  for  Csesar  let  him  have  it,  but  I 
will  have  my  castle  in  the  air,  where  my  imagination 
shall  entertain  itself.  You  have  one  of  the  best  apart- 
ments in  it,  and  I  sometimes  make  bold  to  snatchi  the 
Duchess  of  Portland  from  her  great  possessions  on  earth, 
to  refresh  herself  in  my  airy  mansion;  and  I  take  Penny 
too  from  her  biisiness  of  doing  good  in  this  world  to 
her  ^culative  employment  of  despising  its  vanities! 
I  think,  too,  I  would  have  Sir  John  Stanley,  for  we  see 
age  does  not  spoil  his  understanding,  and  I  think  Cupid 
mil  not,  so  let  him  be  one." 


Mn,  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  Bradley, 

BnlstTode,  12th  Deo.,  1740. 

I  am  just  come  from  the  tea-table,  where  we  have  had  a 
warm  dispute  occasioned  by  Madame  de  Sevigne  s  letters, 
which  one  of  the  company  said,  were  very  fulsome  and 
wanted  variety  of  expression  to  make  them  agreeable, 
and  that  a  very  sincere  affectionate  person  could  never  be 
at  a  loss  for  a  new  thought  on  such  a  subject  as  friend- 
ship.    If  they  were,  it  was  a  mark  that  their  affection  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


136  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

not  very  warm.  The  lady  that  started  the  dispute 
would  not  yield  that  point,  but  maintaiaed  the  heart 
might  be  very  warm  though  the  imagination  was  not 
very  bright.  Another  lady  in  the  company  said  that  was 
her  opinion  too,  and  that  words  may  be  wanting  where  love 
18  not ;  upon  which  says  a  wise  philosopher  in  company, 
"  What  need  have  you  to  be  in  a  fiiss  about  sweet  words, 
cannot  you  say  My  Syrup  of  Violets,  or  My  Syrup  of 
Cowslips  V  This  turned  the  disputant  spirit  into  a  loud 
laugh,  dispersd  the  company,  and  gives  me  an  oppor- 
tunity of  flying  to  her  for  whom  no  expressions  can  be 
too  kind  to  do  justice  to  her  merit  and  my  love. 

We  have  been  this  morning  to  see  Mrs.  Tatton  and  her 
daughter,  but  found  only  the  mother ;  Tatty  was  gone 
to  make  a  visit :  they  live  near  Uxbridge.  When  I  came 
home  I  found  a  letter  from  Miss  Granville,  with  one  en- 
closed from  Lord  Jersey,  where  he  insists  on  her  going  to 
town,  for  he  can  do  nothing  for  her  unless  she  does.  I 
don't  understand  of  what  use  such  an  expense  will  be  to 
her,  but  she  must  humour  him  or  he  may  make  it  a  pre- 
tence of  flying  from  what  he  flrst  promised.  I  go  to  her 
to-morrow  morning  to  tell  her  my  mind  at  large  upon  it ; 
but  I  wish  it  could  be  deferred  tiU  her  sister  was  in  town, 
But  when  I  am  there  I  can  t  offer  her  my  house,  as  it  can 
only  contain  myself  and  my  other  self,  and  like  Sir  Paul 
Methuen's  ring  that  was  refiised  by  his  mistress,  upon 
which  he  flung  it  into  the  sea,  since  it  can't  be  possessed 
by  my  first  friend,  it  shall  be  offered  to  no  one  besides. 
Lord  George  Bentinck,  the  Colonel,  and  Mr.  Harley  are 
expected  here  soon.  I  have  had  a  letter  from  Lady  Sarah 
Cowper.  Mrs.  Pointz  is  very  well  and  brought  to  bed 
of  a  son.   Lady  Cowper  is  much  worse  than  she  was,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  137 

the  Duchess  of  Newcastle  in  the  same  way  and  very  bad. 
The  Duchess  of  Leeds  ^  is  very  much  commended ;  she 
has  behaved  herself  with  great  civility  and  complaisance 
in  the  country  amongst  the  Dnke's  friends  and  neigh- 
bours, and  I  hope  she  will  appear  as  weU  in  a  crowd  as  she 
has  done  in  the  shade.  Such  examples  are  wanting,  and 
if  the  Duchesses  of  Portland  and  Leeds  with  the  charms 
of  youth  itnd  every  other  attraction  cannot  bring  virtue 
into  fashion,  I  am  afraid  We  must  not  expect  to  see  her 
tread  the  stage  in  our  days.  I  heartily  wish  she  may  have 
as  much  merit  as  our  Duchess  has,  but  I  cannot  think 
she  will  come  up  to  that. 

I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  SaUy,  the  only  one  I  have 
had  since  I  saw  her  at  Bradley ;  it  was  quite  a  domestic 
one,  with  an  account  of  Jacky  and  SaUy,  HaUy  and  Kitty. 
I  own  such  a  downright  fire-side  epistle  from"  her  disap- 
points me,  though  I  wish  all  her  family  well,  and  am  glad 
to  hear  they  are  so.  I  find  she  carries  her  daughter  Sally 
with  her,  and  her  son  Jack  is  to  be  at  Mr,  Viney's.  I 
could  have  wished  it  had  been  convenient  to  have  gone 
there  alone.  Fare  well.  The  Duchess  of  Portland  has 
been  two  days  without  receiving  one  letter,  at  which 
she  sighs  and  laments  most  heavily ;  I  hope  you  will  write 
to  her  soon,  for  she  loves  "  her  Pip.^*  Her  Ghrace,  the 
Duke,  JUiss  Fidget,  Mrs.  Pots,  and  the  Philosopher  all 
send  their  kind  compliments;  mine  to  Miss  Hopkins. 
Mrs.  Elstob  is  pretty  well ;  the  children  very  well  and 
most  delightful.  This  is  the  third  letter  I  have  directed 
to  you  at  Droitwych. 


'  liary,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Francis  Lord  Godolphin,  married,  1740, 
Thomas,  4th  Duke  of  Leeds. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


138  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mn,  Dewes,  at  Bradley. 

Ballstrode,  21  Dw.  1740. 

If  the  weather  is  as  cold  at  Bradley  (as  I  much  fear  it 
is)  as  with  us,  should  I  be  silent  a  post,  you  may  per- 
haps imagine  I  am  no  better  than  Lot's  wife.  As  yet,  I 
am  flesh  and  blood,  but  if  the  frost  and  extremely  sharp 
winds  continue  much  longer,  the  Lord  knows  what  I 
shall  be !  so  I  will  make  use  of  my  time  whilst  I  have 
strength  and  motion ;  my  best  facilities  must  be  devoted 
to  my  most  dear  sister,  whose  tender  affection  warms  me 
in  the  midst  of  the  severest  cold.  The  wonder  that  used 
to  arise  on  our  constant  correspondence  by  the  idle  men 
of  the  house  is  transferred  from  me  to  Miss  JEtobinson,who 
writes  to  two  of  her  family  constantly  every  post,  and  is 
as  regularly  anstvered,  and  one  of  them  is  her  sister.  This 
gives  me  an  opportunity  of  stealing  to  you  imobserved. 

Yesterday  morning  the  Duchess  received  your  charm- 
ing packet ;  she  gave  me  leave  to  partake  of  the  feast, 
for  her  disposition  makes  her  always  ready  to  com- 
municate whatever  gives  her  pleasure;  your  letters 
always  do,  and  she  bids  me  give  her  kind  love  and^ 
thanks.  The  Duchess  will  hardly  be  able  to  turn  *  any- 
thing for  you  before  she  goes  to  town,  and  I  had  given 
orders  for  the  books,  &c.,  to  be  sent  you  by  the  coach 
before  I  knew  you  had  a  box  to  come  out  of  town.  We 
have  begun  Pamela,  but  I  will  not  say  anything  of  it 
till  you  give  me  your  opinion.  By  the  time  it  comes  to 
you  I  suppose  you  and  my  good  brother  may  have 
chattered  over  aU  the  transactions  that  have  passed  dur- 

»  Tho  Dudleys  of  Portland  was  celebrated /or  <«n^r*«^.    She  turned  in  wood, 
jet,  ivory,  and  amber. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  189 

ing  your  separatioBy  and  may  be  glad  to  read  a  new  book 
for  variety.  If  it  affords  you  any  amusement,  my  de- 
sign is  answered;  you  enclose  me  a  letter  for  Mrs. 
Doncomb,  but  I  don't  know  where  our  rambling  Princess^ 
is :  she  has  not  given  me  notice  of  her  abode  in  town ; 
but  I  will  enclose  it  to  Donellan,  who  wiU  know  where  to 
find  her  as  soon  as  anybody.  I  hope  you  are  as  wise  as 
I  am,  and  set  with  hood  and  cloak  on  by  the  fire-side.  The 
Duchess  of  Portland  dines  and  sups  in  hers,^  and  it  would 
divert  you  to  see  the  wrapping  up  there  is  amongst  us. 

As  for  all  the  remarkable  news  of  London,  if  there 
is  any,  I  presume  Mr.  Dewes  has  told  it  you.  I  hear 
a  monument  is  now  putting  up  for  Shakspeare  ^  in  West- 
minster Abbey.  Many  Latin  inscriptions  have  been 
offered  to  adorn  the  same  and  set  forth  his  worth,  and  one 
was  sent  to  Pope  for  his  approbation ;  the  sense  of  it 
meant  that  after  many  years  neglect  Shakespeare  appeared 
with  general  acclamation.  Mr.  Pope  could  not  very  well 
make  out  the  author  s  meaning,  and  enclosed  it  to  Dr. 
Mead  with  the  following  translation : — 

"  After  an  hwndred  and  thirty  yea/re^  nap^ 
Enter  Shakespear^  with  a  loud  clap,'" 

I  will,  if  I  have  time  to  copy  it  out,  enclose  you  a 
copy  of  verses  of  his  that  I  believe  have  not  come  in  your 
hands,  but  there  is  a  line  or  two  I  think  had  better  have 
been  omitted.  I  wish  poets  would  be  more  delicate,  or, 
at  least,  have  some  respect  for  those  that  are  so.  Our  day 
is  positively  fixed  for  leaving  Bulstrode — ^this  day  fort- 

'  Mrs.  Dunoombe. 

'  The  Duchess  of  Portland's  partiality  for  soft  warm  hoods  and  cloaks 
increased  with  age.  The  Editor's  mother  had  often  seen  her  take  off  five,  of 
varioos  textures  of  silk,  when  she  came  out  in  an  evening. 

'  In  1741  a  monument  was  erected  to  Shakespeare  in  Westminster  Abbey, 
and  paid  for  by  the  proceeds  of  benefits  at  the  two  great  theatres. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


140  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

night;  my  great  consolation  is  that  my  letters  will 
have  less  way  to  go.  I  told  you  I  was  engaged  with 
Lord  Bacon :  I  shall  go  on  with  that  study  this  winter, 
when  I  can  find  time  for  reading.  I  like  him  excessively. 
I  am  now  reading  his  book  of  the  Proficiency  and  Ad- 
vancement of  Learning,  in  which  there  are  abundance  of 
fine  things,  though  some  a  little  too  dry  and  learned  for 
me.  I  take  reading  of  abstruse  and  difficult  books 
to  be  something  like  children's  spelling  hard  words, 
which  at  first  they  don't  understand,  but  upon  hearing 
them  talked  over  and  diligently  using  and  attending  to 
them,  they  come  to  know  their  use:  his  language  is 
strong,  and  noble,  and  lively,  and  I  am  impatient  to  go 
on,  for  his  Essays,  they  say,  are  very  entertaining. 

Mr.  Handel  has  got  a  new  singer  from  Italy.  Her 
voice  is  between  Cuzzoni's  and  Strada's — strong,  but  not 
harsh,  her  person  miserably  bad,  being  very  low,  and 
excessively  crooked.  Donellan  approves  of  her :  she  is  not 
to  sing  on  the  stage  till  after  Xmas,  so  I  shall  not 
lose  her  first  performance.  Everything  harmonious  and 
delightful  will  bring  you  more  strongly  to  my  mind,  a 
seat  that  you  possess  vnthout  a  rival.  My  kind  service 
to  Mr.  Dewes;  all  here  send  compliments.  I  have 
heard  nothing  from  Miss  Granville  since  she  first  went 
to  town ;  I  fear  she  has  not  met  with  success,  for  if  she 
had  she  would  have  wrote  me  word.  I  had  a  letter  from 
Mrs.  Foley  last  week,  but  Mr.  Dewes  has  seen  her  siace 
that. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY  141 

From  the  Hon^  Mrs,  Foley  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Newport,  Dec.  30, 1740. 

A  fault  confessed  with  hearty  repentance  I  am  sure  will 
meet  with  forgiveness  from  one  so  righteous  and  good  as 
my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  though  I  own  I  am  almost  unworthy 
of  being  ever  again  received  into  your  gracious  favour 
after  having  been  so  long  in  my  acknowledgments  for  your 
last  extremely  obliging  epistle.  Though  in  some  measure 
I  am  not  as  guilty  as  I  must  appear  to  you  to  be,  for  I 
have  this  to  say  in  my  defence,  that  by  our  being  removed 
from  Stoke  before  your  letter  came  thither,  and  being 
mider  cover  to  Mr.  Foley,  it  rambled  some  time  before 
it  came  to  my  hands,  which  deprived  me  of  a  sincere  satis- 
faction. But,  hoyever,  I'll  pretend  to  make  no  excuse 
for  myself,  for  undoubtedly  my  thanks  ought  to  have 
attended  you  long  before  now ;  therefore  I  lay  myself  at 
your  feet  and  implore  your  royal  mercy,  my  most  gracious 
Queen  Anne  I  I  am  obliged  ahnost  every  week  to  vyrite 
volwnes  to  our  good  Mrs.  Foley,  who. has  been  so  good  to 
undertake  the  trouble  of  ftimishing  our  house  in  town  for 
us,  so  that  we  have  many  matters  of  business  to  settle 
between  us  which  require  a  constant  and  long  correspond- 
ence to  pass,  and  this  has  indeed  employed  great  part  of 
my  time.  But  my  thoughts  and  good  wishes  have  often 
and  will  always  attend  Bradley,  but  I  can  most  sincerely 
say  my  heart  is  always  full  of  tender  affection  for  you, 
and  wish  you  at  aU  times,  and  more  particularly  at  this 
season,  aU  health  and  happiness,  and  a  long  continuance 
of  it  for  many  years.  May  the  same  good  wish  attend 
you  that  I  had  made  me  t'other  day  by  a  particular 
friend, — *'  that  you  may  see  many  happy  yearSy  your  chil- 
dren's children^  and  peace  upon  IsrasV 


Digitized  by 


Google 


142  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  must  always  obey  your  commands,  or  else  I  should 
never  think  of  troubling  you  with  particular  accounts  of 
so  trifling  a  subject  as  that  relation  of  yours,  Mrs.  Foley ; 
but  since  it  is  your  desire  to  know  how  she  fares  in  this 
world,  I  must  teU  you  she  is  perfectly  well,  and  very 
much  your  friend  and  humble  servant.  How  happy  would 
your  presence  have  made  us  here,  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  and 
how  do  I  abominate  those  nasty  sloughs  which  prevented 
your  coming,  since  you  really  are  so  good  as  to  say  your 
inclination  would  have  made  you  venture  to  pass  some  time 
with  us.  The  weather  has  been  so  bad  that  it  has  not 
permitted  us  to  have  much  company,  but  we  have  been 
so  good-humoured  and  happy  arrurngst  ourselves  that  it  has 
made  the  time  pass  very  agreeably. 

You  was  a  very  true  prophet  abouj  my  being  "  fond 
of  Newport,"  for  I  really  find  new  beauties  in  it  every 
day,  even  notwithstanding  the  weather  has  confined  us 
much  to  the  house.  I  have  a  pleasure  in  viewing  out  of 
my  window  the  improvements  which  are  making  against 
another  year,  for  Mr.  Foley  is  very  busy  with  his  hedges, 
which  will  add  much  to  the  beauty  of  the  fields,  and 
cleanliness  and  little  niceties  of  that  kind,  you  know,  I 
always  humbly  preferred  before  troublesome  magnificence. 
Mr.  Foley  thought  of  you  when  he  ordered  this,  and  with 
pleasure — for  he  knew  he  should  have  your  approbation : 
it  has  procured  us  the  sight  of  several  fine  oaks,  which 
before  were  hid  from  the  house.  Were  it  not  for  the 
thought  of  seeing  my  dearest  Violet,  Daisy,  and  Penny, 
I  should  leave  this  place  with  greai  regret^  but  the  hopes 
of  seeing  them,  you  may  believe,  give  me  great  pleasure- 
We  propose  going  from  hence  to  Stoke  on  Friday  next, 
where  we  shall  stay  a  few  days  and  from  thence  proceed 
to  Gloucester,  where  I  had  an  invitation  from  Mrs. Gran- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  143 

ville's  men  hand  to  be  at  her  house,  which  kind  offer  we 
shall  do  ourselves  the  pleasure  to  accept,  and  propose 
great  satisfaction  in  having  an  opportunity  of  enjoying 
the  happiness  of  her  company.  By  this  time  I  hope  Mr. 
Dewes  is  returned  from  London  to  you ;  I  rejoice  you 
had  the  good  luck  to  meet  with  Miss  Hopkins  as  an  en- 
tertaining companion  in  your  solitude.  I  am  not  at  all 
surprised  at  your  being  apprehensive  of  rogues :  you  used 
to  laugh  at  me  for  being  a  coward  when  guarded,  as  you 
have  often  told  me,  by  thousands,  and  that  you  were 
never  under  the  least  fear,  but  now  you  see  your  noble 
courage  may  be  cast  down.  We  laughed  most  heartily 
at  your  adventure.  Mr.  Foley  and  his  sister  make  you  their 
compUmeiits ;  we  all  join  in  the  same  to  Mr.  Dewes.  I 
can't  find  in  my  conscience  to  make  you  pay  postage 
for  this  heap  of  nonsense,  therefore  shall  send  it  to  Mr. 
Foley  to  be  franked,  and  by  that  means  must  still  appear 
longer  unthankful  to  you.  But  pardon  and  love  me  still, 
my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  and  you'll  add  much  to  the  happi- 
ness of, 

Toiur  affectionate  and  faithfdl  humble  servant, 

G.  Foley. 

The  following  singular  narrative  was  amongst  the  letters  of 
Mary  Granville.  It  bears  date  1740,  and  is  sufficiently  curious  to 
deserve  insertion  had  it  not  been  particularly  preserved  by  her. 

"  Mrs.  Vigor,  among  many  curious  occurrences  in  her  travels, 
had  an  extraordinary  interview  with  some  persons,  whom  at  that 
time  she  did  not  know.  This  was  attended  with  a  wonderful 
coincidence  of  circumstances,  which  happened  in  the  following 
manner :  "  Mrs.  Vigor,  after  having  resided  some  years  in  Eussia, 
was,  upon  the  death  of  her  husband,  obliged  to  return  to  England. 
As  she  was  with  child,  it  was  thought  improper  for  her  to 
proceed  by  sea ;  she  therefore  set  out  with  her  servants  by  land. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


144  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  the  journey  was  perfonned  in  sledges,  on  acoount  of  the  snow. 
They  left  Petersburgh,  and  passing  through  Livonia  and  Cour- 
land,  arrived  at  Memel  in  Polish  Prussia.  She  was  here  obliged  to 
take  up  her  quarters  in  an  inn,  which  to  her  mortification  she 
found  full  of  Prussian  officers  and  soldiers.  This  was  an  unfortu- 
nate circumstance,  to  Mrs.  Vigor,  whose  situation  at  that  time  was 
critical,  as  she  expected  soon  to  be  in  a  state  of  confinement.  A 
gentleman  who  had  attended  her  in  her  journey  happened  in  the 
afternoon  to  go  out,  in  order  to  make  a  visit  to  some  merchants 
and  other  principal  persons  of  the  place,  to  whom  he  had  letters ; 
and  in  conversation  he  took  the  liberty  to  ask  if  it  were  not  pos- 
sible to  obtain  a  private  lodging  for  a  lady,  whose  present  place  of 
residence  was  very  inconvenient.  A  person  quite  unknown  said, 
that  he  believed  apartments  were  to  be  had,  and  those  very  com- 
modious and  retired,  and  as  he  was  going  home  he  would  very 
soon  send  a  particular  account.  This  news  was  carried  lo  Mrs. 
Vigor,  and  in  about  an  hour  a  very  polite  letter  came,  subscribed 
*  Meyer!  (the  name  of  the  person  spoken  of  above)  ;  and  in  this 
letter  the  apartments  were  pointed  out,  in  which  it  was  hoped 
that  Mrs.  Vigor  would  find  every  accommodation  that  she  could 
desire ;  and  added,  that  the  "  «aower  Mt%.  Vigor  came  the  hetter^ 
The  servants  were  accordingly  ordered  to  get  everything  in  readi- 
ness; and  a  coach  being  procured,  they  set  out  for  the  house 
to  which  they  had  been  directed. 

'*  Mrs.  Vigor  found  it  spacious  and  stately,  and  was  carried  up 
to  a  drawing-room,  where  they  were  treated  with  everything 
requisite,  and  there  was  afterwards  a  supper  served  up.  They 
were  in  a  state  of  wonder  at  these  occurrences,  but  at  last  got 
intelligence  from  their  servants,  that  the  house  in  which  they  were, 
belonged  to  the  very  person  who  first  gave  intimation  about  apart- 
ments to  be  obtained,  and  afterwards  wrote  the  letter.  This  raised 
their  wonder  still  more.  However,  nothing  transpired  that  night,  but 
in  the  morning,  at  breakfast,  the  gentleman  of  the  house  made  his 
appearance,  and  with  him  a  young  person  who  seemed  to  be  hia 
son.  Mrs.  Vigor  got  up,  and  mentioned  how  greatly  she  was 
obliged  to  him  for  his  goodness,  but  at  the  same  time  told  him 
how  much  she  was  embarrassed,  as  it  was  out  of  her  power  to 
make  any  return  for  these  civilities.     Mr.  Meyer  begged  of  Mrs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  145 

Vigor  and  her  friends  to  be  easy  on  that  head ;  for  says  he,  ^'  All  I 
do  is  a  return :  it  is  in  consequence  of  favours  received — so  that 
your  debt  is  cancelled  before  it  is  incurred."  As  they  did  not 
seem  to  understand  him,  he  proceeded  to  explain  his  meaning : 
*' You  must  know,"  says  he,  "that  I  have  a  great  esteem  for  the 
Fjigliflh  nation  in  general^  but  I  have  obligations  to  particulars 
which  enhances  my  regard.  You  see  here  this  young  man,  who  is 
my  son ;  he  was  last  year  upon  his  travels  in  England,  and 
passing  down  from  the  north  towards  the  capital,  he  was  taken 
very  iU.  His  disorder  was  so  violent,  tliat  he  was  ibrced  to  take 
refuge  wherever  he  could  find  shelter,  which  was  not  easily  to  be 
procured.  His  distemper  was  the  small-pox,  and  he  was  housed 
in  a  small  dirty  ale-house,  where  he  must  have  died  for  want  of 
care  and  accommodation.  A  gentleman  of  the  place  heard  that  a 
stranger  was  ill,  and  was  so  humane  as  to  make  him  a  visit.  When 
he  found  the  nature  of  his  disorder,  he  ordered  him  to  be 
wrapped  up  securely,  and  conveyed  him  in  his  coach  to  his  own 
house.  To  this  gentleman*s  goodness,  and  to  the  assiduity  and 
attention  of  those  about  him,  my  son  owes  his  life,  and  I  am 
indebted  for  my  son.  Hence  I  make  it  a  rule  that  no  person  from 
England  shall  come  to  this  place  without  meeting  from  me  every 
mark  of  regard  that  I  can  possibly  show." — "  Pray,  sir,"  says  Mrs. 
Vigor,  to  the  son,  "whereabouts  was-it  in* the  north  of  England, 
that  you  met  with  this  civility  ?" — "  It  was,"  says  he,  "  at  a  place 
called  MetULeyy  near  Leeds,  in  Yorkshire." — Mrs.  Vigor  was  struck 
with  this ;  "  And  pray,  sir,  may  I  ask  what  was  the  gentleman's 

name  ?" — **  His  name,  madam,"  said  the  other,  "  was  Goodwin." 

"  Sir,*'  says  Mrs.  Vigor,  "  it  was  my  otm  father  !" 

We  may  well  imagine  how  Mr,  Meyer's  fiwe  glowed  at  this.  What 
was  before  general  civility  was  now  hightened  into  the  warmest  grati- 
tude :  he  testified  the  greatest  satisfaction  in  having  before  his  eyes 
the  daughter  of  the  person  to  whom  he  esteemed  himself  so  much 
obliged.  The  son  came  up  with  great  politeness  to  Mrs.  Vigor,  and 
told  her  he  ought  not  to  have  waited  for  any  previous  eelaircissementf 
he  ought  to  have  known  her  at  once ;  "  for,",  (said  he,)  "  no  daughter 
can  be  more  like  to  a  father  than  you  are  to  Mr.  Goodwin."    Mr. 

VOL..  II.  L 


Digitized  by 


Google 


146  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

liiteyer  begged  of  them  now  to  be  no  longer  under  any  di6icultiea 
on  account  of  the  little  civilities  which  he  might  offer  them.  Mrs. 
Vigor  had  a  claim  to  everything,  for  he  was  greatly  in  her  debt. 
He  sent  the  next  day  to  his  daughter,  who  was  married  to  a 
person  of  consequence  at  the  distance  of  a  few  leagues,  and  desired 
that  she  would  come  and  keep  Mrs.  Vigor  company ;  she  accord- 
ingly came  with  her  husband,  and  there  was  a  renewal  of  civili- 
ties. It  was  particularly  requested  of  Mrs.  Vigor  that  she  should 
take  up  her  residence  with  them  till  she  had  passed  the  time  of 
her  confinement,  but  this  could  not  be.'  Mrs.  Vigor  had  received 
repeated  solicitations  from  her  friends  to  make  her  appearance  as 
soon  as  possible  in  England,  her  a&irs  required  it^  and  she  was 
obliged  to  leave  this  grateful  and  hospitaUe  family,  after  a 
residence  of  a  few  days,  which  she  could  have  wished  to  have  been 
as  many  years.  Mrs. Vigor  left  Memel,  and  passing  through  Ko- 
ningsbuigh  and  Dantzick,  arrived  at  Hanover ;  after  a  short  stay 
here  she  set  out  for  Holland  and  Helvoet,  and  from  thence  took 
shipping  for  England.     This  happened  in  the  year  1740." 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

February. 

I  wiU  proceed  to  give  you  an  account  of  our  doings  at 
Norfolk  House/  I  told  you  what  my  clothes  were. 
Dash  went  with  me,  she  was  in  pale  pink  an(J  silver 
very  well  drest,  and  looked  like  the  picture  of  Modesty ; 
we  went  at  half  an  hour  after  one.  I  never  saw  so  full  a 
Court,  the  Prince  was  in  black  velvet,  the  Princess  in 
white  and  gold  and  colours,  a  very  fine  rich'  stufl". 
She  looked  very  majestic  and  well,  and  acquitted  her- 


*  **  Norfolk  House.**  Frederick  Prince  of  Wales  rented  this  mansion 
from  the  Doke  of  Norfolk,  and  inhabited  it  while  Carlton  House,  which  he 
had  purchased  from  the  Dowager  Countess  of  Burlington,  was  being  pre- 
pared for  his  reception.  King  George  the  Third  was  bom  at  Norfolk  Heuse, 
June  4,  1738. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  147 

self,  as  she  always  does,  with  great  propriety.    My  Lady 
Scarborough^  was  in  violet-coloured  satin,  the  petticoat 
embroidered  with  clumsy  festoons  of  nothing  at  cdCs  sup* 
ported  by  piUars  no  better  than  posts,  the  gown  covered 
with  embroidery,  a  very  unmeaning  pattern,  but  alto* 
gether  very  fine.     Lady  Cobham  and  the  Duchess  of 
Bedford  in  rich  gold  stuflF.    Lady  Bruce^  in  lemon-colour 
richly  embroidered  with  silver  and  colours,  a  small  pat- 
tern ;  Lady  M.  Tufton^  white  embroidered  with  garlands 
dud  Jlower-pots  of  flowers  mixt  with  a  great  deal  of  silver, 
it  cannot  be  described  so  well  as  it  looked,  for  it  teas  hand- 
some ;  Lady  Grodschall  had  on  a  suit  of  clothes  that  were 
designed  for  her  in  case  she  had  been  Lady  Mayoress, 
white  satin  embroidered  with  gold  and  browns,  very  fine. 
The  Duchess  of  Queensbury's  clothes  pleased  me  best ; 
they  were  white  satin  embroidered,  the  bottom  of  the 
petticoat  brown  hills  covered  with  all  sorts  of  weeds,  and 
every  breadth  had  an  old  stump  of  a  tree  that  run  up 
almost  to  the  top  of  the  petticoat,  broken  and  ragged 
and  worked  with  brown  chenille,  round  which  twined 
nastersians,  ivy,   honeysuckles,    periwinkles,    convolvu- 
luses and  all  sorts  of  twining  flowers  which  spread  and 
covered  the  petticoat,  vines  with  the  leaves  variegated 
as  you  have  seen  them  by  the  sun,  aU  rather  smaller 
than  nature,  which  made  them  look  very  light:  the 
robings  and  facings  were  little  green  banks  with  all  sorts 
of  weeds,  and  the  sleeves  and  the  rest  of  the  gown  loose 


^  Fraooesj  daughter  of  George,  Ist  Earl  of  Orkney,  maxried  Thomas^  3rd 
Earl  of  Scarborough. 

'  Caroline,  only  daughter  of  General  John  Campbell,  afterwards  Duke  of 
Argyll,  and  third  wife  of  Charles  Lord  Bruce. 

'  Lady  Mary  Tufton,  eldest  daughter  of  Sackvillo  Earl  of  Thanet,  bom 
in  1723. 

l2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


148  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

twining  branches  of  the  same  sort  as  those  on  the  petti- 
coat: many  of  the  leaves  were  finished  with  gold,' 
and  part  of  the  stumps  of  the  trees  looked  hke  the  gild- 
ing of  the  sun.  I  never  saw  a  piece  of  work  so  prettily 
fancied,  and  am  quite  angry  with  myself  for  not  having 
the  same  thought,  for  it  is  infinitely  handsomer  than 
mine,  and  could  not  cost  much  7no7*e  ;  these  were  the  finest 
ladies.  Lady  Carteret  was  in  an  ugly  flowered  silk  on 
a  dirty  yeUow  ground,  Miss  Carteret  in  pale  pink  satin 
and  very  ghroius  mth  jewels ;  Mrs.  Spencer  in  a  white 
flowered  velvet  very  dull,  but  all  the  Duchess  of  Marl- 
borough's jewels ;  Lady  Dysart  did  not  go,  nor  Lady 
Catherine  Hanmer,^  though  she  had  bought  clothes ;  my 
Lady  Egmont's^  brother  died  three  weeks  ago,  and  my 
lady  out  of  perverseness  would  not  let  her  go,  for  nobody 
observes  forms  for  an  imcle  after  they  are  buried.  The 
ball  was  begun  at  nine,  by  the  Prince  and  Princess, 
and  lasted  till  I  was  tired  of  the  number  that  sailed 
about.  The  finest  man  was  Lord  Annandale,^  who  is 
just  come  home :  he  is  very  tall,  and  what  is  called  hand- 
some, and  much  commended  for  his  dancing.  The  men 
in  general  were  not  remarkably  fine.  Dash,  by  a  mis- 
take of  her  mantua-maker  s  was  spoiled  for  a  dancer ; 
but  she  danced  country  dances  with  Sir  Francis 
Dashwood,*  who  stuck  by  us  aU  night,  and  is  a  very 

^  Lady  Catherine  Hanmer  was  the  eldest  daughter  of  John,  Earl  of 
Egmont.    She  married,  14  April,  1733,  Thomas  Hanmer,  Esq. 

'  The  Countess  of  Egmont  was  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Philip 
Parker  A'Morley,  Bart. 

^  George  Johnstone,  3rd  Marquis  of  Annandale,  died  29th  April,  1792. 

*  Sir  Francis  Dashwood  married  Sarah,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Thomas 
Gould,  Esq.,  and  relict  of  Sir  Richard  Ellys.  Sir  Francis  succeeded,  in  1762, 
to  the  Barony  of  Le  Despencer  in  right  of  his  mother.  He  was  at  one 
time  head  of  the  War  Office  and  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  from  May, 
1762  to  April  1763,  and  died  without  issue,  11  Dec.,  1781. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  149 

entertaining  man.     We  left  the  great  crowd  at  one,  and 
when  I  came  home  I  found  your  letter. 

Yours, 

M.P.  . 

I  have  some  thoughts  of  going  with  my  brother  into 
Staffordshire  early  in  the  spring  and  meeting  you  at 
Gloucester,  where  I  find  you  think  of  going  towards 
July,  for  I  don't  know  how  to  bear  the  thought  of  being 
fi-om  you  at  that  time.  Thus  runs  my  scheme  for  you 
and  me :  my  mother  comes  to  you  as  soon  as  the  roads 
will  permit,  and  stays  with  you  till  June,  at  which  time 
(if  you  are  resolved  against  lying-in  in  London)  I  sup- 
pose you  will  return  with  my  mother  to  Gloucester,  and 
I  shall  have  taken  my  tour  to  Calwich,  and  will  come  to 
Gloucester  the  beginning  of  July,  and  return  with  you  to 
Bradley.  By  that  time  the  summer  will  be  too  far  advanced 
for  you  or  my  mother  to  go  to  Calwich,  and  he  says  now  it 
would  not  be  reasonable  to  desire  she  should  leave  you. 

This  letter  was  not  dated,  but  the  date  is  determined  by  the 
death  of  Lady  Egmont's  brother,  Sir  Philip  Parker  A'Morley 
Long,  who  died  in  1741. 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Jertnyn  Street,  23rd  April,  1741. 

This  will  be  the  last  letter  I  shall  date  from  hence ; 
for  next  Saturday  I  remove  from  dust,  noise,  and  hurry, 
to  sweet  air,  tranquillity,  and  leisure ;  all  these  delights 
North|ni  can  gwe^  and  mth  them  I  choose  to  live !  where 
the  Penseroso  and  Allegro  will  be  blended,  and  set  off 


Digitized  by 


Google 


1:50  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

each  other  so  as  to  make  it  a  life  of  perfect  harmony — as 
much  so  as  it  is  possible  for  me  to  find,  without  the  addi- 
tion of  my  dearest  sister's  company ;  but  having  that  to 
terminate  my  view,  I  own  I  feel  a  very  sincere  pleasure 
in  going  to  my  much  favoured  bower,  and  notwithstanding 
the  sharp  winds  that  make  a  fireside  no  despicable  place, 
I  hope  to  warm  myself  with  exercise,  and  defy  sea-coal. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  is  just  as  well  as  I  hope  you 
wiU  be  the  latter  end  of  July.  I  was  her  constant  atten- 
dant Monday,  Tuesday,  and  Wednesday,  the  three  days 
the  Duke  spent  at  Windsor — such  tete-^ortites  you  know 
are  rarities.  On  Monday  I  received  both  your  letters ; 
one  of  them  I  should  have  had  the  post  before,  but  it 
came  in  company  with  yours  from  Mapleborough.  I 
rejoice  at  your  having  performed  that  bold  undertaking 
so  well,  and  am  sure  it  must  please  Mrs.  Dewes  to  see 
you.  I  will  cut  out  the  arms  for  you  as  soon  as  I  get 
to  Northend,  but  you  must  send  me  a  good  impression, 
are  yours  to  be  with  them  ?  I  have  not  time  at  present 
to  thank  Mr.  Dewes  for  his  kind  lines  in  your  letter ; 
but  at  my  grot  I  purpose  doing  handsome  things  by  all 
my  friends. 

I  have  had  no  trouble,  my  dearest  lister,  about  any 
of  your  affairs,  but  much  pleasure ;  I  shall  send  the  box 
this  week  by  the  carrier,  but  cannot  get  Cicero  for  you. 
The  bandbox,  basket,  and  pincushion  you  must  be  so 
good  as  to  accept  of  from  me ;  I  took  them  all  of  Mrs. 
Bowkerj  and  hope  you  will  approve  of  my  performance. 
I  will  get  myself  perfectly  informed  of  the  new  dress  for 
the  bantling,  that  I  may  instruct  you  when  I  come  to 
Glocester.  I  have  sent  you  four  yards  of  cottse  long 
lawn,  and  two  yards  finer  for  the  httle  night-caps,  etc. ; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY,  151 

I  suppose  jou  will  line  the  cradle  with  dimity  or  white 
calico,  quilted.  Let  me  know  if  you  want  anything  of 
the  kind  or  any  other,  and  I  will  bring  it  with  me ;  bs 
for  pins,  I  think  you  micst  pay  the  complinient  to  Glocester 
of  buying  pins  there.  1  am  sorry  George  had  not  time 
to  make  those  things  that  are  made,  but  had  I  sent  them 
to  you  only  cut  out,  I  thought  that  would  not  be  so 
good  a  direction,  but  some  of  the  little  niceties  were 
George's  work*  The  clock  has  struck  three,  and  /  mtist 
finish  a  picture  before  I  dine ;  I  have  ordered  my  dinner 
at  four,  and  at  eight  go  to  Dover  Street,  where  Mrs.  Foley 
holds  a  grand  assembly ;  oh  bear  me  to  the  plains  of 
fair  Northend,  that  I  may  no  more  be  encumbered  with 
these  innumerable  interruptions.  The  Duchess  of  Leeds, 
came  to  me  at  twelve,  and  staid  till  past  two.  For  ever 
yours, 

M.  P. 
Short  stays  and  long  stays  are  forgot,  but  make  them 
of  long  lazcn. 


Mrs,  Devoes  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 

May  1741. 

I  congratulate  my  dearest  Penny's  arrival  to  the  seat 
of  delights,  but  you  carry  delight  with  you,  and  then 
fancy  yon  find  it  there. 

"  Dame  of  the  ruddy  cheek  and  laughing  eye, 
From  whose  bright  presence  crowds  of  sorrows  fly." 

Health,  content,  and  every  blessing  attend  your  steps, 
for  you  were  certainly  bom  to  cheer  as  well  as  chanu  all 
your  firiends.  How  enlivening  is  the  account  of  North- 
end  in  your  last  letter !  And  how  delightful  the  good 
news  of  my  Lord  Duplin's  advancement,  and  the  kind 


Digitized  by 


Google 


152  LIB^E  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

promise  he  has  made  for  our  friend's  son!  I  hope 
Providence  will  make  him  the  instrument  of  putting 
that  boy  in  a  happy  station ;  and  I  believe  he  has  a 
heart  capable  of  feeling  how  much  good  he  can  dispense 
to  others.  I  rejoice  for  my  Lady  Krnnoid ;  but  I  must 
contract  my  rhapsodies,  because  franks  are  out  of 
fashion,  but  I  beg  that  may  not  prevent  your  sending 
one  thought,  for  every  word  of  yours  is  worth  double 
postage.  I  should  have  begun  by  answering  your  kind 
packet  of  the  23*,  where  you  give  so  exact  an  account  of 
all  the  trouble  you  have  had  about  my  affairs,  which  I 
am  sure  are  all  done  to  perfection ;  there  is  but  one 
thing  I  can  complain  of,  and  that  is  the  bandbox  and 
basket.  How,  my  dear  sister,  can  I  want  any  new  proofs 
of  your  love,  when  I  have  so  many  already  grafted  on 
my  heart?  And  why  should  you  add  to  numberless 
obligations,  at  a  time  when  the  hurry  and  bustle  of  a 
remove^  may  make  all  unnecessary  expenses  inconvenient  ? 
I  could  almost  chide  you,  were  it  not  ungrateful  and  you 
won't  be  thanked ;  so  I  must  end  this  subject  with  my 
pen,  but  not  in  my  mind.  I  suppose  the  box  will  arrive 
to-morrow,  and  I  will  then  give  you  an  account  of  it. 

I  know  fiill  well  how  impossible  it  is  for  George  to 
do  more  work  than  she  daily  performs,  and  that  is  as 
much  as  if  she  had  twenty  instead  of  ten  fingers ;  but  1 
am  sure  I  shall  find  some  employment  where  her  handi- 
ness  will  be  very  serviceable.  I  am  really  concerned  for 
Dapper  more  than,  as  you  say,  one  should  be  for  a  dog ; 
and  as  he  got  his  bane  at  Bradley,  it  is  a  double  grief  to 
me,  but  I  will  endeavour  to  forget  hiTn  as  I  hope  you  will. 
We  have  had  a  loss  of  that  kind — Hector,  the  stately 

*  Mrg.  Pondarvcs  was  about  to  change  hor  house  in  London. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  153 

greyhonDd;  he  lay  violently  ill  three  days,  and  then 
expired.  Charles  tiiought  him  mad,  but  it  has  affected 
none  of  the  other  dogs,  and  they  could  give  no  account 
of  his  having  been  bit. 

I  am  glad  the  Duchess  of  Leeds  visits  you  so  often,  for 
it  will  be  of  service  to  her.  I  could  easily  have  found  a 
resemblance  to  your  nightingale  (which  far  exceeds  Strada's 
description  in  fancy),  but  that  the  person  I  mean,  neither 
knows  nor  wiU  paint  her  own  perfections,  while  she  mag- 
nifies the  smallest  good  qualities  in  others.  No  mortal 
could  so  sensibly  describe  the  pleasures  of  the  country  as 
you  do,  did  they  not  feel  them  exquisitely ;  but  in  your 
bower  you  have  art  joined  to  nature  to  make  it  beyond 
compare.  Here  we  are  all  wildness,  though  not  without 
our  beauties,  and  though  no  nightingales  reach  our  peaceful 
groves,  they  want  not  harmony,  such  as  larks,  blackbirds, 
and  goldfinches.  Our  hedges  and  fields  are  verdant,  and 
the  apple  and  pear  trees  make  a  very  gaudy  appearance. 

**  They  speak  their  Maker  as  they  can, 
But  want  and  ask  the  tongae  of  man.** 

We  can  never  talk  too  much  of  these  rural  delights; 
they  soften  and  compose  the  mind,  and  raise  our  thoughts 
to  the  bountiful  Author  of  all  these  beauties,  who  dis- 
penses blessings  and  wonders  in  every  plant  and  animal. 
I  want  to  send  you  some  of  oxir  jocund  lambs — ^they  raise 
our  spirits  by  their  innocence  and  liveliness,  the  cow 
is  grown  an  absolute  beauty,  and  is  more  worthy  now  of 
the  honour  of  your  pencil  than  when  you  drew  her  picture. 
Our  grounds  are  covered  with  cowslips,  and  in  short  we 
have  more  spring  and  freshness  than  could  be  expected 
from  so  dry  a  season.  But  I  cannot  enjoy  our  solitude 
so  much  as  if  I  were  as  nimble  as  usual,  and  when  Mr. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


154  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Dewes  leaves  me,  who  is  so  kind  to  lead  me  through  all  the 
pleasant  easy  walks,  and  who  enjoys  every  field  and  every 
tree  as  mnch  as  I  do,  I  shall  be  forced  to  sit  still.  I  was 
not  the  worse  for  going  to  Mapleborough,  and  received 
very  obliging  proofs  of  kindness  and  good  will;  Mr. 
Dewes  is  gone  there  to-day,  and  I  had  a  great  mind  to  have 
accompanied  him,  but  mama  thought  it  better  not. 

I  am  obliged  to  our  dear  Princess  for  a  letter  last  post, 
which  I  will  answer  as  soon  as  I  can ;  my  mother's 
kindest  blessing  attends  you,  and  Mr.  Dewes  best  wishes, 
with  all  our  services  to  my  dear  brother,  and  respects  to 
the  beneficent  Lord  of  "  Beauty  Spot ;"  and  as  long  as 
you  can  enjoy  Northend,  I  shall  be  in  no  concern  about 
your  not  finding  a  house  in  town, — there's  time  enough 
for  that  between  this  and  winter.  This  was  wrote 
yesterday,  and  this  afternoon  I  proposed  adding  to  it, 
when  Mr.  Hunt  came  in  and  prevented  me,  at  the  same 
time  Mr.  Dewes  was  gone  to  Beckenham.  I  must  leave 
room  to  give  you  an  account  of  the  box,  which  Charles 
is  gone  to  Alcester  for. 

Welcome  to  May^  my  dearest  sister — May  the  most 
pleasing  month  of  aU.  the  year,  and  to  me  the  happiest, 
for  it  produced  every  thing  good  in  my  much  loved 
Penny. 

Friday  night. 

The  box  is  arrived  safely,  but  it  is  too  late  to  open 
it,  so  must  defer  a  more  particular  account  of  it  tiU  next 
post ;  besides  we  have  just  heard  of  a  very  melancholy 
accident  that  has  put  us  all  to  concern.  Poor  Mrs. 
Dewes^  fell  down  to-day  and  has  hurt  herself  very  badly ; 
they  fear  she  has  broke  her  leg  or  thigh.    They  sent  to 

*  Mr.  Dewes's  mother. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  155 

two  places  for  a  surgeon,  and  could  not  get  one.  You 
know  how  good  a  son  Mr.  Dewes  is,  and  how  tender- 
hearted to  everybody, — and  therefore  imagine  how  much 
he  is  affected,  he  has  sent  to-night,  and  goes  to-morrow 
morning.  He  left  Mrs.  Dewes  last  night  very  well, 
which  makes  it  doubly  shocking  to  have  an  accident 
happen  so  suddenly. 


The  Ebn^  Mrs,  Foley  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Newport,  June  12, 1741. 

Though  I  so  lately  troubled  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  with  a  long 
epistle,  I  can't  omit  enquiring  the  first  opportunity  after 
your  health  on  performing  your  journey  to  Gloster,  where 
I  heard  you  was  expected  on  Wednesday,  and  hope  you 
got  there  safe  and  weU.  I  shall  be  very  impatient  to 
hear  of  you — not  from  you  at  present,  therefore  beg  you 
to  employ  some  charitable  scrib6  to  give  me  that  great 
satisfaction.  I  suppose  Madam  Pen  will  now  soon 
attend  your  fair  ladyship :  she  had  a  scheme  of  bringing 
my  sisters  so  far  with  her  in  their  way  to  Herefordshire, 
but  my  sister  Anne  objects;  so  her  reasons^ I  suppose 
are  good  for  so  doing,  but  I  know  them  not.  They  do 
not  come  hither  till  August;  I  shall  envy  them  the 
pleasure  of  seeiag  you  and  yours  en  chemin.  Mr.  Foley 
and  I  have  been  quite  by  ourselves  ever  since  we  came 
hither.     Mr.  and  Mrs.  Foley  come  to  us  next  week. 

I  beg  you  will  makie  my  best  comphments  acceptable 
to  Mrs.  Granville  and  Mrs.  Dewes.  Mr.  Foley  joins 
with  me  in  the  same,  and  desires  me  to  add  his  humble 
service  to  you. 

I  am,  dear  cousin. 
Your  affectionate  faithful  humble  servant, 

G.  Foley.- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


156  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDEKCE 


Mn,  Pendarve8  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Undated. 

I  was  transported  with  pleasure  at  receiving  so  lively 
and  so  particular  an  account  of  you  as  your  last  letter 
gave  me.  Nothing  delights  me  so  much  as  to  know 
how  you  do,  what  you  do,  and  every  little  circumstance 
belonging  to  you ;  I  wanted  such  a  cordial  last  night, 
for  I  had  spent  four  hours  in  a  melancholy  way  with  our 
amiable  Duchess,  who  is  under  great  afliiction  for  my 
Lord  Oxford.  He  was  taken  ill  on  Saturday  night ;  it  is 
hard  to  say  what  his  distemper  is,  but  his  whole  mass  of 
blood  is  corrupted,  and  one  of  his  legs  mortified ;  he  is 
in  no  pain  at  present,  and  will  soon  be  quite  at  rest.  His 
daughter,  who  has,  joined  to  the  most  lively  sensibility, 
great  gratitude  and  affection  for  him  and  my  Lady 
Oxford,  suffers  a  great  "deal  now,  and  you  may  think  I 
shall  not  leave  her  till  her  spirits  are  composed.  I  staid 
with  her  till  12  o'clock  last  night,  and  saw  her  with 
pain  and  pleasure ;  nothing  can  be  said  to  her  that  her 
own  piety  and  goodness  does  not  suggest,  and  I  hope  she 
will  bear  this  unfortunate  stroke  with  a  proper  fortitude, 
for  she  is  surroimded  with  many  blessings. 

My  Lord  Oxford  has  of  late  been  so  entirely  given  up  to 
drinking,  that  his  life  has  been  no  pleasure  to  him  or  satis- 
faction to  his  friends ;  my  Lady  Oxford  never  leaves  his 
bedside,  and  is  in  great  trouble ;  the  scene  is  painfcd  to  all 
his  friends,  but  he  has  sense  and  goodness  of  heart,  and 
I  hope  proper  reflections  on  this  great  occasion,  and 
when  the  first  shock  is  over  there  are  circumstances  that 
must  be  an  alleviation  to  his  loss.  He  has  had  no 
enjoyment  of  the  world  since  his  mismanagement  of  his 
affairs ;  it  has  hurt  his  body  and  mind,  and  hastened  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  137 

death ;  pray  God  preserve  us*  all  from  too  great  anxiety 
for  worldly  affairs  ! 

Since  I  wrote  this,  Bet  Castleman  has  made  me  a  visit. 
She  says  she  is  the  happiest  of  her  family,  but  grunts 
and  groans  as  usual,  and  sighs  for  a  letter  from  you ;  but 
let  her  sigh  on  and  write  to  nobody  but  Mr.  Dewes  and 
myself.     When  she  left  me  I  went  to  see  DonneUan, 
who  has  missed  her  fit  and  is  better — I  hope  in  a  fair 
way  of  doing  well ;  from  thence  I  came  to  Whitehall  to 
dine  with  our  dear  afflicted  Duchess ;  before  I  came  I 
received  a  note  from  Lady  Carteret,  to  desire  me  to  come 
to  her  between  six  and  seven  to  meet  the  Prince  and 
Princess  of  Wales,  who  were  to  drink  tea  at  her  house. 
I  sent  my  excuse,  but  as  the  Duchess  was  obliged  to  go 
to  Lady  Oxford's  at  six,  I  went  to  Arlington  street.  The 
Prince    and  Princess    were    very  gracious    and    good- 
humoured,   but  my  heart  and  thoughts  were  with  the 
Duchess.     I   am  just  returned  to  ter   dressing-room. 
Lord  Oxford,  poor  man,  is  released !     She  and  the  Duke 
are  not  yet  come  home.     Thank  God  she  is  in  good 
health,  and  I  hope  this  unhappy  stroke  will  have  no 
other  effect  than  what  must  naturally  attend  it.     I  will 
write  to  you  next  post,  and  let  you  know  how  she  does ; 
don't  make  yourself  uneasy,  for  she  bears  up  as  well  as 
can  be  expected ;  I  shall  stay  in  town  two  or  three  days 
longer  than  I  designed,  for  I  can't  leave  the  Duchess  till 
she  is  a  little  recovered ;  I  hope  to  see  Mr.  Dewes  co- 
morrow  morning.     I  have  not  absolutely  fixed  my  day, 
because  it  may  be  a  day  or  two  later  than  I  designed, 
for  if  the  Duke  of  Portland  can  go  out  of  town  about 
that  time,  it  will  be  both  convenient  and  pleasant  to  me 
to  take  the  opportunity  of  travelling  with  them  to  Oxford. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


158  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Now  good  night,  it  is  as  impossible  for  me  to  express  the 
impatience  I  have  to  be  with  you  and  my  dear  mama,  as 
it  is  to  say  how  much  I  am  yours.  Mr.  Achard's  par- 
ticular compliments.  The  dear  Duchess  in  the  midst  of 
her  trouble  remembers  her  " dear  Pip'' 

The  above  letter  is  undated,  but  the  death  of  Lord  Oxford  gives 
the  period  at  which  it  was  written.  The  following  account  appeared 
in  the  London  Daily  Post,  June  18,  1741  : — *'  On  Tuesday  night 
last,  died  at  his  house  in  Dover  Street,  the  Right  Honourable  the 
Earl  of  Oxford  and  Mortimer.  His  Lordship  married  Lady  Hen- 
rietta Cavendish  Hollis,  only  daughter  and  heir  of  John  Duke  of 
Newcastle,  by  whom  he  left  only  one  daughter,  the  Lady  Margaret, 
married  to  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Portland."  It  is  further  re- 
corded on  23rd  of  June  : — "  About  twelve  o'clock  this  night,  the 
corpse  of  the  late  Earl  of  Oxford  (having  been  put  in  a  leaden 
coffin,  and  inclosed  in  another  covered  with  crimson  velvet)  will 
be  removed  from  his  Lordship's  house  in  Dover  Street  to  the  Jeru- 
salem Chamber,  from  whence  it  is  to  be  interred  in  a  pompous 
manner  in  Westminster  Abbey.  A  guilt  plate  of  curious  work- 
manship, with  the  following  inscription,  is  fixed  thereon : — 

The  Most  Noble  Lord, 

Edward  Habley, 

Earl  of  Oxford  and  Earl  Mortimer, 

And  Baron  Harley  of  Wigmore, 

In  the  county  of  Hereford. 
Bom  the  11th  of  Juno,  1688. 
Died  the  16th  of  June,  1741." 

Lord  Ossory  writes  to  Dr.  Swift  on  this  occasion,  4th  July, 
1741 : — "  Poor  Loid  Oxford  is  gone  to  those  regions  from  whence 
travellers  never  return,  unless  in  an  airy  visit  to  faithless  lovers, 
as  Margaret  to  William;  or  to  cities  devoted  to  destruction,  as 
Hector  amidst  the  flames  of  Troy. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  159 

Prmn  Dr.  Young  i  to  the  Duekess  of  PortUmd,  on  the  death  of  her  father  the 
Earl  of  Oxford.^ 

Madam, 

July  12th,  1741. 

Could  I  have  administered  any  consolation  to 
your  Grace,  and  had  forborne  to  do  it,  I  then  should 
have  been  quite  inexcusable ;  but  I  too  weU  know  that  the 
first  agonies  of  real  sorrow  have  no  ear,  and  that  a  man 
might  as  wisely  talk  to  his  friend  in  a  fever,  and  desire 
his  pulse  to  lie  still,  as  to  philosophize  with  a  wounded 
heart.  These,  madam,  are  the  strokes  of  Heaven,  nor 
will  they  be  defeated  in  their  effect ;  nor,  indeed,  is  it 
for  our  interest  that  they  should.  Of  Grod  Almighty's 
manifold  blessings  to  mankind,  his  afflictions  are  the 
greatest — they  will  make  us  wise,  or  nothing  wiU.  We 
cannot  bear  an  uninterrupted  prosperity  prosperously, — 
we  cannot  bear  it  without  being  a  little  intoxicated  with 
the  delicious  cup,  which  wiU  make  our  virtue  reel  if  not 
fall.  Hence  an  antient  said,  as  wisely  as  wittily,  that  no 
man  is  so  unhappy  as  he  who  never  knew  affliction ;  I 
therefore  congratulate  your  Grace  on  what  you  suffer,  nor 
let  it  sound  cruel  or  harsh  in  your  ear,  for  in  this  I  am  but 
a  little  beforehand  with  your  own  self;  for  shortly  you 
will  bless  God  for  this  great  calamity,  and  find  that  the 
best  may  be  bettered  by  the  kind  discipKne  of  Heaven. 
Heaven  suffers  nothing  to  happen  to  man  but  what  is 
for  his  temporal  or  eternal  welfare ;  and  our  tears  have 
as  much  reason  to  praise  God  as  our  triumphs.  In  what 
a  blessed  situation  are  we,  then,  madam,  under  such  a 
Being,  who  does,  who  will  do,  who  can  do  nothing  but 

1    The  Author  of  "  Night  Thoughts.'* 

3  This  letter  must  have  been  given  by  the  Duchess  of  Portland  to  Mrs. 
Pendarves. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


160  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

favour  good  ?  What  passion  in  the  heart  of  man  is  half 
so  natural,  as  the  love  of  Grod  while  man  is  in  his  right 
senses  ?  We  have  no  motives  of  love,  but  either  the  ex- 
cellence of  the  thing  itself  or  its  benefit  to  us ;  and  in 
neither  view  has  Gk)d  any  rival,  or  shadow  of  it.  Now, 
why  is  divine  love  so  natural  to  us  ?  and  why  is  it  en- 
joined as  the  first  and  great  command?  Because,  if  this 
is  complied  with,  a  course  of  duty  will  be  a  course  of  de- 
light ;  we  shall  have  the  same  pleasure  in  it  as  a  fine 
gentleman  has  in  obeying  his  favourite  mistress.  Love 
carries  the  whole  heart  with  it,  and  when  our  heart  is 
engaged  among  toUs  and  difficulties  we  find  ease  and 
pleasure,  and  nothing  is  too  hard  for  the  great  alacrity  of 
our  attempts. 

But  is  not  love  too  familiar  a  passion  for  such  insects 
towards  the  King  and  Father  of  all  beings  ?  It  seems  to 
be  so.  But  I  beg  your  Grace  (for  the  Bible  is  a  pretty 
book)  to  review  the  Gospel  for  Whitsunday,  and  to  see 
what  a  familiar  intimacy  by  that  tremendous  power  is 
indulged  to  men ;  I  never  read  it  but  with  astonish- 
ment ;  nor  is  it  possible  for  any  one  who  reads  it  to  sus- 
pect that  any  of  His  dispensations  are  really  severe,  who 
spoke  to  us  in  such  language  as  the  fondest  father  might 
make  use  of,  and  who  wiU  encourage  no  expectations  in 
us  that  shall  not  be  far  surpassed  by  the  event. 

In  a  word,  madam,  Heaven  is  as  solicitous  for  our 
happiness  here  as  is  consistent  with  its  far  kinder  concern 
for  our  happiness  herea^fter ;  and  our  afflictions  (which  is 
saying  much  in  their  favour)  plainly  tell  us  we  are  im- 
mortal ;  were  we  not  we  should  be  as  free  from  cares, 
but  then  we  should  be  as  destitute  of  hope,  as  the  beasts 
that  perish.     May  that  Power  who   **bindeth  up  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  161 

broken  heart/'  and  giveth  medicine  to  heal  its  sickness, 
be  for  ever  your  Grace's  comfort  and  defence.  Please  to 
accept  the  most  cordial  good  wishes  for  the  re-establish- 
ment of  your  peace,  and  the  most  sincere  respects  for  the 
sole  foundation  of  it — ^your  virtues,  from 

Madam, 
Your  Grace's  servant, 

Edward  Young. 

What  I  write  is  not  to  inform  but  confirm  your  GJrace, 
or  rather  to  shew  my  court  by  shewing  that  in  points  of 
consequence  I  have  the  honour  to  be  of  your  opinion. 

WeUwyn,  July  12th,  1741. 


JIfrs.  Foley  to  Mrs,  Dewea^  cU  Mm,  QiranviUe\  in  Olotier* 

Stoke,  July  14, 1741. 

Among  many  reasons  that  make  Mr.  Foley's  being  a 
candidate  disagreeable  to  me,  one  of  the  greatest  is  its 
preventing  my  seeing  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  this  week, 
which  I  fully  intended ;  but  Mr.  Cornwall,  on  whom  Mr. 
Poley  has  laid  many  obligations,  has  no  other  way  of 
returning  them  but  by  doing  him  all  the  mischief  in  his 
power,  and  has  accordingly  declared  he  shall  have  an  op- 
position. Though  this  declaration  will  do  no  more  than 
expose  himself,  yet  it  miikes  an  early  and  more  particular 
application  to  the  freeholders  necessary^  and  all  our 
servants  and  horses  are  employed  in  carrying  out  circular 
letters,  so  that  I  must  defer  seeing  you  till  you  set  up^ 
which  is  really  the  most  sensible  disapointment  I  have 
met  with  a  great  while;  for  my  affection  for  you  is 
not  of  the  common  sort,  and  consequently  not  to  be 

VOL.  II.  M 


Digitized  by 


Google 


162  LIFE  AND  OORRBSPONDENCE 

satisfied  with  making  professions  only ;  besides,  I  have 
many  things  to  say  to  you  improper  to  trust  in  black 
and  white,  would  time  give  me  leave  to  send  them  to 
you  that  way,  but  that  alas !  will  not  do.  I  wish  I  could 
spend  it  as  much  to  my  satisfaction  as  in  writing  to  you, 
but  there's  no  remedy  but  patience  for  this ;  so  now  I  shall 
long  to  hear  you  are  in  a  condition  to  hear  me  prattle  to 
you,  and  at  the  same  time  dandle  your  babe,  which  I  am 
very  dextrous  at.  I  needn't  say  how  anxious  I  am  about 
you,  and  how  much  obliged  I  shall  be  to  anybody  that 
has  time  to  write,  if  it  be  but  a  line  every  post  to  let  me 
know  how  you  do.  I  think  I  must  wish  it  may  be  a 
son,  because  that  sex  is  generally  most  acceptable  to  the 
gentlemen,  but  for  yours  and  my  own  sake  I  shall  be 
glad  if  it  is  a  daughter.  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to 
hear  my  dear  Penny  is  so  well,  the  secretary  she  employed 
writes  so  well  that  her  apology  was  needless ;  I  reckon 
the  diversions  of  the  assize  will  take  her  up  a  day  or  two. 
When  does  Mrs.  Eastcourt  lye-in  ? — I  hope  she  will  not 
interfere  with  your  ladyship. 

My  brains  are  so  full  of  nonsensical  election  affairs, 
having  heard  of  nothing  else  this  week,  that  you  must 
expect  nothing  entertaining  from  me.  On  Saturday  our 
sweet  Primrose  comes,  and  she  will,  if  'tis  possible  to  be 
done,  inspire  me  with  a  little  life  and  spirit ;  which  the 
being  drawn  out  into  the  world,  and  the  breaking  all  our 
jschemes  of  improving  this  place,  and  living  quietly  in 
this  sweet  retreat,  have  quite  damped,  for  I  grudge  every 
penny  spent  in  London,  and  look  upon  it  as  robbing  the 
tenants  and  poor  of  what  ought  to  be  spent  amongst 
them.  I  wish  everybody  that  has  property  in  this  county 
were  of  the  same  opinion,  Herefordshire  would  not  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  163 

SO  desolate  as  it  is,  for  the  largest  fortunes  are  entirely  re- 
fumed  out  of  it.  Our  church  is  almost  finished,  but  by 
the  blunders  of  the  workmen,  and  obstinacy  of  Mr. 
Wickins,  it  wiU  not  be  so  handsome  as  the  draught, 
which  vexes  me  extremely  ;  I  wish  Mr.  Foley  had  not 
had  so  much  complaisance  in  the  affair.  He  is  gone  to 
day  to  Hereford,  it  being  sessions ;  he  has  not  been  at 
home  a  week  together  since  we  came  from  London,  nor 
is  likely  to  be  till  he  goes  thither  again.  Pray  is  not 
there  in  Gloucester  a  person  that  draws  very  neatly  for 
eighteen  pence  a  yard  square  ? 

You  mention  not  a  word  of  Mr,  Dewes,  I  hope  he  is 
well  wherever  he  is,  and  that  his  mother  has  recovered 
firom  her  fall  ?  My  letter  will  consist  of  questions,  but  I 
must  ask  after  Mr.  Granville,  and  what  part  of  the  world 
he  is  in? 

And  now,  my  dear  Mrs*  Dewes,  it  is  high  time  to  release 
you,  but  I  cannot  do  it  till  have  assured  you  of  the  par- 
ticular good  wishes  (proper  at  this  time)  of  your  friends 
here,  GriiBBths  desires  duty  and  wishes  herself  with  you 
by  way  of  good  woman ;  my  most  humble  service  waits 
on  your  good  mama,  who  I  hope  soon  to  congratulate  on 
her  new  title,  as  also  Madam  Pen. 

I  am,  your  ever  faithfril  and  affectionate 

E.  Foley. 


The  HonP^  Mrs.  Foley  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Newport,  Sept.  4th,  1741. 

I  hope  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  does  not  impute  my  being 
so  long  a  time  without  my  assuring  her  the  sincere  joy 
I  have  at  her  happy  recovery  to  be  owing  to  the  least 

M  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


164  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

want  of  regard  to  her,  but  really  I  thought  my  stupid 
epistle  would  sooner  lower  your  spirits  than  raise  them, 
and  therefore  depended  on  the  goodness  and  eloquence  of 
my  dear  Penny  to  make  you  sensible  how  great  a  satisfac- 
tion it  is  to  me  the  hearing  of  your  being  restored  to  us 
again  in  good  health ;  and  I  hope  she  has  done  me  justice 
to  you.  I  never  felt  greater  joy  than  at  seeing  a  letter 
to  Mrs.  Foley,  directed  by  your  own  hand.  It  gave  me 
as  much  pleasure  as  I  had  pain  when  I  knew  you  was 
in  misery,  but  there  are  no  roses  without  thorns.  Were  . 
it  possible  for  me  to  envy  my  sisters  any  pleasure  in  the 
world,  I  should  their,  having  the  happiness  of  seeing  my 
frieuds  at  Gloucester :  and,  how  do  I  wish  to  see  your  little 
boy  !  His  merit  tp  me  now  is  being  your  son,  but  I  hope 
to  live  to  see  him  have  so.  much  of  his  own,  that  I  shall 
love  him  on  his  own  account.  I  rejoice  to  hear  by 
everybody  who  has  se6n  him  that  he  is  so  charming  a 
child.  Mr.  Snell,  who  is  now  with  us,  tells  me  he  has 
not  yet  seen  him,  but  he  tells  me  my  dear  cousin  is 
but  yet  very  weak. 

I  shall  be  very  anxious  till  I  hear  of  your  gathering 
more  strength,  which  I  dare  say  youll  do  daily  when 
you  come  about  in  the  air ;  for  I  know  that  till  I  went 
abroad  and  drank /asses  milk,  I  could  not  walk  a  quarter 
of  a  mile  without  tumbling  two  or  three  times,  as  Mrs. 
Pendaxves  may  tell  you — mtness,  the  kennel  in  Jermyn 
Street.  I  fancy  my  sisters  will  be  with  you  Wednesday 
or  Thursday  next ;  they  are  to  set  out  the  eighth.  I 
go  to-morrow  to  Stoke  to  meet  them.  I  wait  the 
post  now  every  minute  with  great  impatience,  and  shall 
be  much  baulked  if  your  fear  sister  don't  epistle  me 
this  post.     I  fear  I  shall  be  tempted  to  call  her  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  165 

a  lady  of  lier  word,  which  I  must  do  this  instant,  for  the 
letters  are  come,  and'  not  one  for  me.  Oh !  fye  for 
shame  !  Pniy  present  my  most  humble  service  to  Mrs. 
Granville  and  Mr.  Dewes.  Tell  your  sister  I  hear  of  her 
flirting  at  baUs,  which  I  suppose  take  up  her  time  so  much 
she  can't  spare  a  few  minutes  upon  me ;  but  I  am  much 
huffed  at  her  tantalizing  me  by  promising  a  long  letter. 
But  wicked  as  she  is,  I  am  her  sincere,  humble  servant, 
and  yours,  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes, 

With  the  utmost  affection, 

G.  Foley. 

Pray  what  letters  you  favour  me  with  next,  direct  to 
Stoke :  I  shall  be  there  a  fortnight.  Both  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Foley  are  better  than  ever  I  saw  them.     Adieu. 


Mn,  Pendarve$  to  Mn.  Dewes, 

19th  January. 

Not  all  the  riches  of  "  the  Nabob's  mfe^  could  give 
me  half  the  pleasure  that  my  dearest  sister's  letters  do.  I 
have  copied  out  (as  I  know  you  to  be  a  curious  lady,)  a 
most  extraordinary  description  of  a  fine  lady,  His  genuine. 
This  letter  came  about  five  months  ago  to  a  particular 
friend  of  Lady  North's,  who  gave  me  leave  to  copy  it 
for  you. 

Last  Monday  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Percival,  and  Donnellan, 
and  the  two  GranviUes,  dined  with  me.  We  were  all 
engaged  to  Lady  Catherine  Hanmer's.  Just  as  I  got  into 
their  coach  to  go  there  with  them,  the  post  brought  me 
your  letter,  which  burnt  in  my  pocket ;  I  set  down  the 
Percivals  at  Lady  Cath.,  took  the  coach  to  Mrs.  Hannah 


Digitized  by 


Google 


166  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Lowther's/  whom  I  luckilj  found  at  home  and  alone,  and 
begged  leave  to  read  your  letter,  which  waa  granted,  and 
I  enjoyed  the  rest  of  the  evening  with  good  spirits. 

I  rejoice  and  b^ar  my  part  in  the  comfort  and  enter- 
tainment you  have  had  &om  Sally,  and  wish  it  were 
convenient  to  her  to  continue  with  you,  but  I  fear  she 
is  now  gone,  and  Mr.  Dewes  upon  the  wing  to  leave 
you,  and  you  an  hundred  miles  from  me,  and  no  possi- 
bility of  making  you  a  winter^s  visit,  or  to  be  able  to  fly 
to  you  for  a  fortnight  or  so  now  and  then !  What  a  de^ 
light!  a  delight  out  of  my  reach,  since  you  are  and 
must  be  at  such  a  distance.  I  think  it  not  neccessary 
for  Mr.  Dewes  to  hasten  to  town  upon  what  I  have 
said ;  if  he  comes  to  term  that  mH  be  time  enough. 
Old  G.  snapped  my  nose  off  for  saying  I  had  sent  for 
him,  she  said  '^she  would  give  it  under  her  hand  and  seal 
that  she  would  lose  no  opportunity  of  serving  you  and 
him,  but  aU  preferments  were  uncertainties,  and  she 
would  not  give  too  much  encouragement  for  fear  .of  not 
succeeding."     My  brother  thinks  it  probable  she  may  do 

something,  but  she  is  mother  to ,  and  he  is  a  broken 

reed !  I  am  glad  you  have  got  our  little  god-daughter^ 
Sally ;  I  hope  she  will  improve  from  your  advice,  and  by 
aU  means  curb  her  if  she  is  too  forwards  in  giving  her 
opinions ;  a  conceited  man  or  woman  is  abominable,  but  a 
conceited  girl  is  insupportable.  Conceit  or  opinionative- 
ness  becomes  no  sex  or  age :  those  that  know  the  world 
most  make  a  bad  figure  with  it,  those  that  have  not  had 

1  Hansah,  youngest  daughter  of  Alderman  Lowther.  She  was  Maid  of 
UoQOur  to  Queens  Mary  and  Anne,  and  died  in  1757,  at  the  ago  of  a  hundred 
and  three. 

-  Sarah,  daughter  to  Mrs.  Chapon,  to  whom  hoth  Mary  and  Ann  Granville 
were  godmothers. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANT.  167 

an  opportuniiy  of  seeing  the  world  are  ridieuloua  with  it. 
It  ought  to  be  rooted  out  betimes ;  it  is  a  weed  that  other* 
wise  will  choke  the  most  delicate  qualities  of  the  mind« 
I  should  be  most  heartily  rejoiced  if  Sally's  observations 
on  the  poor  sick  child  might  be  depended  on^  and  in  truth 
young  children  will  get  the  better  of  very  long  illnesses. 
If  he  holds  out  till  spring,  Cheltenham  waters  will  certainly 
do  well  for  him ;  I  have  not  much  to  say  of  Smart's  skill, 
I  fear  his  medicine  hastened  my  poor  George,^  to  her  end. 

Fine  ladies  will  be  fine  ladies  everywhere;  when 
it  is  amongst  their  like  it  is  very  well,  and  is  not 
distinguished  so  as  to  give  great  offence ;  but  at  Chel- 
tenham and  such  places,  (where  the  sober  and  sedate 
are  terrified  at  any  extraordinary  word  or  action,)  it  shews 
extravagance,  and  tis  only  seeing  the  great  variety  of  the 
world  that  can  make  one  patiently  bear  the  violent 
affectations  of  great  part  of  it.  I  own  I  am  not  offended 
at  those  things — they  would  hurt  me  if  those  I  love  were 
guilty  of  them,  but  in  others  it  diverts  me  like  an  odd 
character  in  a  play.  Our  friend  Dr.  Young,  as  you  have 
lately  observed,  has  helped  us  much  on  these  occasions ; 
but  if  all  the  world  were  prudent  and  regular  in  their 
behaviour,  it  would  not  be  half  so  diverting  as  it  is  now. 

To-day  I  dine  with  Lady  Sunderland,  in  the  afternoon 
go  to  Fidget  Montagu'  and  Lady  North.  To-morrow  at 
ten  to  dress  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  and  in  the  even- 
ing,  if  I  can  get  into  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  gallery, 
Donnellan,  my  brother,  and  myself  design  to  go  to  the 


1  From  this  sentenoe  it  appears  that  the  faithful  Oeorge  had  died  between 
Mrs.  Pendarves*  yisit  to  Gloucester,  to  nurse  Mrs.  Dewes,  in  the  summer  and 
autumn,  and  the  following  January. 

'  **Fidget  Montagu'^  Miss  Robinson. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


168  UFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

ball  at  St.  James's.  If  I  have  time  to  finish  the  other 
page  I  will  not  send  it  unsnllied,  if  you  tdU  accept  of  the 
nabob's  lady,  who  I  hope  will  entertain  yon. 

I  saw  Mrs.  Montagu  yesterday ;  she  looks  handsome, 
fat,  and  merry;  she  is  in  excellent  spirit-s  and  very 
happy,  and  talks  of  " Aer  young  family'^  as  cordially  as 
if  she  had  been  married  five  years;  I  hope  her  good 
spirits  will  hold  out,  for  she  will  want  them  before  all  is 
over.  I  supped  at  Lady  Sunderland's,  after  making  my 
visit  to  Lady  North,  who  always  enquires  after  you ;  I 
think  Miss  Sutton  grows  every  day  more  agreeable  in 
her  conversation,  but  she  has  a  melancholy  tum^  and 
tenderness  of  heart,  that  give  me  some  anxiety  about 
her :  two  nights  ago  as  she  passed  through  Grosvenor 
Square,  she  saw  a  hearse  and  ftineral  attendants,  which 
affected  her  so'  much,  when  she  considered  the  distress 
there  might  be  in  the  house  where  it  was,  that  she  came 
home  to  my  lady  Sunderland  all  in  tears.  She  loves  very 
few,  but  has  a  general  compassion  in  her  nature,  and 
those  she  does  love  she  doats  on ;  you  are  one  of  her 
favourites.  The  coach  is  come,  now  for  curling,  tiffing, 
&c.,  &C.9  &c.,  &c.  Our  Duchess  will  be  almost  as  fine 
as  the  nabob's  lady,  and  infinitely  more  valuable. 


The  following  MS.  was  sent  by  Mrs.  Pendarves  to  her  sister, 
with  an  account  of  the  marvellous  jewels  which  adorned  the 
wife  of  a  certain  nabob,  the  account  of  which  had  been  transmitted 
by  a  friend  from  Madrc^.  '^  The  Moorish  lady  *'  herein  described 
is  alluded  to  in  the  preceding  letter,  in  a  manner  which  would 
indicate  that  8he  waa  a  personage  who  had  been  publicly 
mentioned.  Neither  the  letter  nor  the  narrative  have  any  date 
beyond  the  19th  of  January,  but  it  seems  probable  that  it  be- 
longed to  the  year  1742. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  .169 


"  We  have  had  a  great  man  called  the  Nabob  (who  is 
the  next  person  in  dignity  to  the  Great  Mogul)  to  visit 
the  Governor,  who,  with  the  councillors  and  all  the  chief 
gentlemen  of  Madras,  went  in  great  state  to  meet  him. 
His  lady,  with  all  her  women  attendance,  came  the  night 
before  him.  AU  the  guns  fired  round  the  fort  upon  her 
arrival  as  well  as  on  his ;  he  and  she  are  Moors,  whose 
women  are  never  seen  by  any  man  upon  earth  excepting 
their  husbands.  He  staid  there  about  a  fortnight,  but 
his  lady  remains  here  in  the  Black  Town  still.  His 
attendants  consisted  of  many  thousands  of  people.  The 
Governor  waited  on  him  at  his  house  in  the  Black  Town^ 
and  he  returned  the  visit  to  the  Governor.  All  the 
ladies  in  the  town  went  to  see  him  go ;  it  was  a  fine 
procession  of  palankeens,  and  he  is  a  fine  man  in  person. . 
The  riches  of  his  dress  with  pearls  and  diamonds  is 
beyond  description.  He  sent  the  Governor  a  fine  present 
in  a  large  filUgrane  silver  box  placed  on  the  back  of  a 
fine  Moorish  horse  adorned  with  all  manner  of  fine  gold 
and  velvet  trappings,  and  I  believe  nearly  a  thousand 
horse  and  foot  people  to  attend  it.  Afber  he  left  Madras 
Mrs.  Binyon  (the  Governor  s  lady)  Went  to  visit  his 
lady.  The  Governor  was  so  obliging  to  write  to  me 
over  night  to  invite  me  and  your  sisters  to  go  with  Mrs. 
Binyon  the  next  morning  to  visit  this  great  lady.  We 
drest  ourselves  in  the  very  best  of  everything  we  had, 
and  went  to  the  Governor's,  where  we  breakfasted,  and 
found  Mrs.  Binyon  as  fine  as  a  queen.  The  Governor 
made  tea  for  us,  that  we  might  not  put  ourselves  out  of 
form.  Mrs.  Beard  (who  is  sister-in-law  to  the  Governor) 
and  her  daughters  made  up  the  rest  of  the  company. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


170  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

We  had  all  the  Governor's  attendants  as  well  as  his 
lady's,  and  his  music  playing  before  us  all  the  way,  and 
^thousands  of  people  looking  at  us  as  we  passed ;  we  had 
about  a  mile  to  go.  W)ien  we  arrived,  Mrs.  Binyon 
was  handed  by  a  lady  who  was  to  iutroduce  her  through 
two  halls,  which  brought  us  into  a  large  garden,  and 
presented  her  to  the  Nabob's  lady,  who  was  seated  in  the 
middle  of  a  pavilion  at  the  end  of  the  garden  upon  a  settee 
covered  with  rich  embroidery  upon  crimson  velvet ;  em- 
broidered carpets  hung  all  over  it  and  went  under  their 
feet.  She  received  us  with  the  utmost  gentility,  and  paid 
her  proper  compliments  to  us  all. 

"  I  must  now  give  you  a  description  of  her  person  and 
dress,  as  well  as  I  can.  Her  person  slim,  genteel,  and 
middle-sized ;  her  complexion  tawny,  as  all  the  Moors 
are ;  her  eyes  as  black  as  possible,  large  and  fine^  and 
painted  at  the  edges,  which  is  what  most  of  the  Moors  do ; 
her  lips  painted  red,  and  between  every  tooth,  which  were 
fine  and  regular,  she  was  painted  black,  to  look  like  ebony. 
AU  her  attendants,  which  were  about  thirty  ladies,  were 
the  same ;  her  face  was  done  over  Hke  frosted  work  with 
leaf  gold ;  the  nails  of  her  fingers  and  feet  (for  she  was 
bare-footed)  were  painted  red,  and  likewise  the  inside  of 
her  hands.  You  will  perhaps  think  this  a  strange  descrip- 
tion, but  I  assure  you  it  is  literally  true.  And  now  for 
her  dress ;  her  hair  was  as  black  as  jet,  very  long  and 
thick,  which  was  combed  neatly  back,  and  then  braided  till 
it  hung  a  great  deal  below  her  waist ;  she  had  a  fillet  of 
diamonds  round  her  head,  edged  with  pearls  of  a  large  size, 
her  earrings  were  as  broad  as  my  hand,  made  of  di^onds 
and  pearls,  so  that  they  almost  covered  each  side  of  her 
face ;  she  had  a  nose  jewel  that  went  through  her  left 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  171 

nostril ;  round  her  neck  she  had  twenty  rows  of  pearl,  none 
less  than  a  pea»  but  some  as  large  as  the  end  of  my  little 
finger,  from  her  necklace  there  hung  a  great  number  of 
rows  of  large  pearl,  which  came  down  below  her  waist, 
at  the  end  of  which  hung  an  emerald  as  large  as  my  hand 
and  as  thick;  her  coat  was  made  of  fine  gold  muslin, 
made  close  to  her,  and  a  short  sleeve ;  a  gold  vail  hung 
loosely  over  her  head,  and  the  rest  went  over  her  body, — 
all  the  front  of  it  was  trimmed  with  a  row  of  large  pearls. 
She  had  a  girdle,  or  rather  a  large  hoop,  made  of  dia- 
monds, which  went  round  her  waist  \  it  was  above  an 
inch  broad;  several  strings  of  large  pearls  were  tyed 
round  her  waist,  and  hung  down  almost  to  her  knees, 
and  great  knots  of  pearls  at  y^  end  of  them ;  ten  rows  of 
pearls  round  her  wrists,  and  ten  round  her  arms,  a 
little  above  her  elbows,  and  her  fingers  every  one 
adorned  with  rings  of  all  sorts  and  sizes ;  her  feet  and 
ancles  were  adorned  much  finer,  if  possible,  than  her 
hands  and  arms.  In  short,  Mrs.  Beard  and  myself  con- 
cluded she  had  many  m^ore  pearls  and  diamonds  than 
would  fill  a  peck  measure  I  Some  of  the  ladies  who 
attended  her  were  as  fine  as  herself;  she  had  her  little 
son  brought  in  to  see  us ;  the  riches  of  his  dress  were  I 
to  describe,  you  would  imagine  it  some  fairy  story.  He 
was  adorned  and  loaded  with  pearls  and  diamonds;  the  very- 
fan  that  was  carried  to  keep  off  the  sun  from  him  (and 
in  make  like  a  round  fire-screen,  only  four  times  as  large) 
was  crimson  velvet  set  in  figures  with  diamonds  and 
pearls.  I  own  I  thought  myself  in  a  dream  all  the  time 
I  was  there. 

*'  I  must  now  give  you  a  description  of  the  pavilion, 
which  was  very  large,  and  all  the  bottom  coverqd  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


172  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

fine  carpets,  and  entirely  hung  round  with  muslin,,  and 
the  same  all  over  the  inside  of  the  roof,  with  a  deep 
valance  in  the  middle-  In  one  comer  there  stood  her 
bed  (or  cot,  as  we  call  it) ;  the  frame-work  and  pillars 
of  it  were  solid  gold,  and  gold  gauze  curtains,  and  a  rich 
counterpane,  several  fine  dressing-tables  with  large  filli- 
grane  candlesticks  upon  them.  At  the  entrance  of  the 
pavilion  there  was  a  long  embroidered  velvet  cushion, 
with  a  pillow  of  the  same  at  each  end ;  this  was  opposite 
to  the  settee  the  lady  sat  upon.  For  us  to  walk  under  there 
was  something  like  an  awning  made  of  crimson  silk, 
which  went  all  on  the  outside  of  the  pavilion,  and  was 
supported  with  pillars  of  gold.  We  had  two  golden 
censers  of  incense  and  sandal-wood  which  almost  sufib- 
cated  us  with  the  perfume.  Our  entertainment  was  tea, 
that  seemed  to  be  made  with  rose-water  and  cinnamon — 
everything  served  in  plate ;  then  we  had  betel  brought 
us  in  fine  fiUigrane  boxes  made  of  gold  upon  large  scol- 
lopped  silver  waiters,  which  we  liked  better  than  what  was 
in  them,  for  the  betel  is  a  large  green  leaf  which  the 
Indians  chew,  of  an  intoxicating  nature,  and  very  dis- 
agreeable to  the  English ;  but  we  were  forced  to  comply 
with  that  out  of  compliment.  After  this  was  over  we 
saw  a  large  silver  board  brought  covered  with  a  worked 
carpet,  which  was  presented  uncovered  to  Mrs.  Binyon. 
There  was  a  fine  Moor's  coat  and  a  couple  of  rich  veils, 
and  to  each  of  us  a  present  of  a  Moor's  coat  and  a  gold 
veil.  The  Nabob's  lady  put  Mrs.  Binyon's  on ;  so  we, 
in  compliment,  put  on  ours,  with  which  she  was  pleased ; 
and  we  came  back  to  the  Governor's  in  ours,  where  we 
dined  and  spent  the  evening.  The  Nabob's  lady  sent 
an  entertainment  after  us,  which  consisted  of  sixtt/  dishes 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  173 

all  imder  silver  covers,  oad  put  up  in  scarlet  cloth  bags 
made  for  that  purpose ;  the  Governor's  lady  made  a  pre- 
sent of  an  hundred  pagodas  to  her  attendants.  The 
NaboVs  lady  and  her  attendants  admired  us  aU,  but 
thought  our  dress  very  odd.  Two  of  the  ladies  examined 
my  dress  till  they  came  to  the  hoop  petticoat,  which 
they  were  much  astonished  at ;  they  much  admired  my 
tweezers  and  the  trinkets  that  were  in  them.  To  con- 
clude all,  we  were  the  first  English  women  they  had 
ever  seen ;  and  I  doubt  not  but  we  appeared  as  odd  to 
them  as  they  to  us.  Their  immense  riches  are  all  the 
enjoyment  they  have ;  for  she  is  not  suffered  to  go  out 
aU  tiie  year  round,  and  when  obliged  to  travel  is  covered 
up  in  her  palankeen  in  such  a  manner  that  no  mortal 
can  see  her — and  it  would  be  death  for  any  man  to 
attempt  to  see  a  Moor's  lady." 


Mr,  DeuxB  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Olement's-Inn,  10  March,  1742. 

My  bear  Love, 

I  had  your  kind  letter  of  the  5th  instant,  and  am 
glad  to  hear  you  have  so  well  recovered  your  journey, 
and  hope  you  are  now  quite  well  again.  I  have  not  yet 
parted  with  any  of  my  teeth,  though  I  have  suffered  much 
from  them  since  I  wrote  last,  but  I  dined  with  your 
brother  on  Monday,  and  he  persuaded  me  against  having 
any  drawn,  as  they  are  quite  sound. 

Mr.  Granville  is  very  well,  and  desires  his  compliments 
to  Gloucester.  •  I  am  very  glad  the  little  boy  is  so  stout, 
and  is  such  a  comfort  to  you,  but  hope  he  has  lost  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


174  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

cough/  I  don't  yet  know  when  I  shall  be  with  you, 
but  believe  it  will  be  on  Saturday  se'nnight,  so  do  you 
order  about  going  home  as  you  see  fit.  I  will  not 
write  to  Charles,  nor  give  any  directions  about  it,  lest  I 
should  hurry  you  from  Gloucester  before  you  designed, 
but  whenever  you  have  an  inclination  to  go  I'll  be  ready 
to  attend  you, — so  you  may  forecast  about  that  as  you 
please.  I  dined  at  Mr.  Percivall's  on  Sunday ;  they  are 
all  pretty  well  there,  and  inquired  after  you.  Your 
brother  sent  to  invite  me  to  dine  with  him  on  Monday, 
which  I  did,  and  told  him  the  history  of  the  old  Countess  ^ 
(I  mean  in  regard  to  myself ),  and  he  says  it  is  all  a 
joke. 

Madam  Pen  came  to  town  yesterday  to  see  or  rather 
hear  the  oratorio,  and  sent  me  word  she  should  be  at  home 
about  one,  so  I  went  to  see  her,  and  we  sat  and  talked  or 
looked  at  our  accounts  for  about  half  an  hour,  and  then  I 
came  away.  She  had  the  headache,  I  the  toothache,  so 
that  we  were  but  ill  qualified  to  ent'Ortain  each  other. 
I  find  she  wrote  you  word  I  had  been  with  the  Countess 
since  I  saw  her,  but  that  was  a  mistake,  occasioned  by 
what  Mrs.  Donnellan  had  told  her ;  Mrs.  Pendarves  said  I 
should  go  see  the  Countess  again  before  I  went  out  of 
town,  and  I  seemed  not  inclined  to  it,  upon  which  she  took 
me  up  pretty  short,  as  you  know  she  is  sometimes  apt  to 
do ;  so  then  I  drew  back  a  little^  for  one  you  know  must 
give  way,  and  I  think  I  have  now  learnt  to  do  that 
pretty  readily,  though  it  seemed  a  little  awkward  at  first ; 
so  the  argument  dropped,  but  I  believe  I  shall  practise  in 


1  Conri  Dewea^  his  eldest  son,  who  succeeded  him  and  inherited  the  &inily 
estates. 
•  Countess  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  175 

this  particular  something  of  what  I  have  learnt  from 
you,  that  is,  to  say  little,  and  then  do  what  I  think  hest. 
I  am,  yrith  the  truest  sincerity  and  affection, 

Most  heartily  and  entirely  yours,         J.  D. 


The  DuchmqfPor&and  to  Mrs.  Dewe$. 
My  dear  Pip,  No  date. 

I  insisted  upon  writing  to  you  to-day,  which  I 
think  you  have  no  reason  to  thank  me  for,  as  I  have 
prevented  your  having  a  letter  from  Pen,  hut  I  could 
not  longer  refrain  giving  myself  this  pleasure,  and  in 
some  measure  expressing  my  gratitude  to  you  for  your 
delightfril  epistle ;  hesides  this  must  be  very  short,  for  I 
must  dine  with  Lady  Waw,^  and  I  expect  the  Duchess  of 
Leeds  and  Mrs.  Walters  to  see  my  shells,  and  am 
to  spend  the  evening  with  Lady  Bute,  if  she  is  not  in 
labour.  Lord  Edgecombe '  has  kissed  hands,  and  Earl 
Fitzwilliam  ®  is  made  Baron  Milton.  Poor  Mrs.  Foley 
is  very  ill,  her  bad  symptoms  increase;  I  am  very  glad 
yon  are  so  soon  to  be  happy  with  Mrs.  Granville's  com- 
pany ;  I  hope  you  will  find  her  soon  recover  apace  with 
bracing  aur.    The  Duchess  of  Cleveland's^  death  was 

'  "  Lady  Waw^  The  only  suggestion  that  occurs  as  an  explanation  of  this 
enrioas  abbreviation,  is  that  it  was  the  name  by  which  Lady  WalHngford  was 
called  by  the  children  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland. 

*  Bichard  Edgcumbe,  Esq.,  was  elevated  to  the  peerage,  April  20, 1742,  as 
Baron  Edgcumbe. 

s  William,  3id  Earl  FitEwilliam,  in  Ireland,  was  enrolled  amongst  the  peers 
of  Great  Britain,  by  George  IT.,  19th  A^ril,  1742,  in  the  dignity  of  Lard 
FitzwQUamy  Baron  Milton,  county  Northampton. 

*  Lady  Henzietta  Finch,  sister  of  the  Earl  of  Winchelsea,  wife  of  William 
Duke  of  Cleveland.  ^  The  Duchess  of  Cleveland  died  last  night  of  what  they 
call  miliary  fever,  Which  is  much  about ;  she  had  not  been  ill  two  days." — 
Horace  Walpci^s  Letters,  April  15, 1742. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


176  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

very  sudden,  some  say  her  own  neglect,  and  others  the 
fault  of  the  physicians;  the  old  woman  has  got  the 
care  of  her  son  again.  The  children  are  all  very  well, 
heg  their  loves  to  Pip.  Bill  is  the  happiest  of  creatures 
in  breeches.  I  shall  be  late,  so  adieu,  dear  Pip,  heaven, 
bless  you,  and  believe  me. 

Affectionately  and  faithAilly  yours, 

M.  Portland. 

My  compliments  attend  Mrs.  Dewes.  My  Lord  is  gone 
to  Cottenham. 


Atpana'a  Ptefure,  drawn  hy  PhUcmd^  in  the  year  1742. 

You  know,  madam,  that  Mrs.  P —  is  of  a  most  agreeable 
figure,  and  you  may  believe  that  (as  it  is  above  twenty 
years  since  she  was  married)  the  bloom  she  still  enjoys,, 
the  modest  sprightliness  of  her  eyes,  the  shining  delicacy 
of  her  hair,  the  sweetness  of  her  smile,  the  pleasing  air 
of  her  whole  countenance,  must  have  made  her  the  desire 
of  all  who  saw  her,  and  her  situation  (as  a  widow)  must 
have  given  hopes  to  alL  She  was  married  extremely 
young  to  a  man  who  neither  by  his  years,  behaviour,  nor 
any  quality  he  was  possessed  of,  was  fitted  to  gain  her 
affection ;  she  had  naturally  a  great  deal  of  vivacity  and 
liveliness  of  temper,  yrith  the  greatest  sensibility  and 
tenderness  of  heart.  Some  of  her  nearest  relations  were 
ever  ready  to  have  encouraged  in  her  every  tendency 
towards  gaiety.  What  could  have  guarded  her  in  these 
dangerous  circumstances  P  An  innate  modesty,  an  early 
prudence,  and  a  discerning  judgment  to  know  what  was 
right,  with  virtue,  and  only  to  follow  what  her  judgment 
approved, — these  were  the  qualities  that  have  carried  her 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  177 

through  the  gayest  companies,  the  most  dangerous  scenes, 
with  an  unsullied  fia>me,  and  have  made  even  those  who 
would  have  undermined  her  virtue  pay  homage  to  it. 
Her  modesty  is  not  that  unbecoming  bashftdness  which 
is  so  often  mistaken  for  it — ^her  s  is  the  modesty  of  the  mind, 
which  is  so  far  from  giving  awkwardness  to  the  person  or 
behaviour,  that  it  adds  a  grace  to  everything  that  she  says 
or  does.  And  as  her  modesty  does  not  proceed  from  bash- 
fdlness^  so  her  prudence  does  not  consist  in  formality  or 
reserve  as  if  she  feared  both  herself  or  others,  but  she 
has  a  propriety  of  behaviour  in  every  company  that  lets 
them  see  she  thinks  she  has  no  reason  to  fear  either  herself 
or  them,  and  by  shewing  this  confidence  in  herself  she  takes 
from  others  the  desire  of  attacking  her ;  or  if  there  have 
been  some  who  have  had  the  folly  or  the  assurance  to  make 
such  an  attempt,  she  has  soon  made  them  sensible  of  the 
vanity  of  their  designs,  and  convinced  them  that  the  easi- 
ness of  her  behaviour  proceeds  from  the  purity  of  her 
heart,  not  the  levity  of  her  mind. 

I  am  at  a  loss  what  terms  to  find  strong  enough  to 
express  her  general  benevolence  or  her  particular  tender- 
ness to  her  friends ;  her  benevolence  is  so  strong  it 
should  seem  as  if  she  looked  upon  the  whole  world  as 
her  friends,  and  her  tenderness  to  every  particular 
friend  so  great  as  to  fill  up  the  measure  of  a  whole 
heart.  Where  can  she  find  this  ftmd  of  affection? 
She  subtracts  it  from  self-love,  that  principle  that  fills 
the  heart  of  others,  and  the  only  person  to  whom  she 
does  not  give  more  than  their  due  is  the  worthiest  that 
she  knows — /  m,ean  herself  Her  generosity  naturally 
flows  from  her  benevolence ;  she  gives  as  not  knowing 
she  gives,   and  the  joy   she    has    in   pleasing  others 

VOL.  II.  N 


Digitized  by 


Google 


178  UFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

persuades  one  she  is  more  obliged  to  us  for  accept- 
ing her  favours  than  we  can  be  to  her  for  bestowing 
them ;  while  the  great  desire  she  has  to  make  others 
happy,  never  lets  her  think  she  has  a  right  either  to  keep 
or  endeavour  at  any  advantage  for  herself,  if  there  is  any 
friend  she  imagines  wants  or  desires  it  more  than  she 
does ;  and  in  this  examination  she  is  so  partial  to  her 
friends  as  to  be  very  apt  to  cast  the  balance  against  herself. 
I  remember  a  friend  of  hers  said  one  day  to  her  "  she  had 
no  merit  in  doing  good,  as  she  had  so  much  pleasure  in  it ;" 
but  surely  if  we  will  not  allow  her  a  human  merit,  we 
must  give  her  a  higher  one  ?  As  her  generosity  to  her 
friends  flows  from  her  benevolence,  so  does  her  charity 
both  to  the  wants  and  character  of  her  fellow-creatures ; 
the  first  she  relieves  with  a  bounty  above  her  circum- 
stances, and  the  latter  she  defends  (when  decency  will 
permit)  with  a  zeal  equal  to  the  amiable  principle  from 
whence  it  proceeds.  She  does  not  think  that  being  perfect 
herself  gives  her  a  title  to  animadvert  on  the  faults  or 
laugh  at  the  follies  of  those  less  worthy,  but  would 
rather  choose  to  seem  to  want  penetration  to  find  out 
the  first,  or  wit  to  ridicule  the  latter,  than  to  hurt  those 
who  can  make  no  reprisals  on  her. 

I  need  not,  madam,  to  you  describe  the  agreeableness 
of  her  manners,  the  politeness  of  her  behaviour,  or  the 
winning  grace  that  is  in  all  her  words  and  actions ;  a  small 
acquaintaince  with  her  makes  one  desire  a  greater,  and  a 
greater  makes  one  almost  wish  she  was  not  so  agreeable 
to  others  that  we  might  have  her  more  to  ourselves ;  so 
that  instead  of  improving  by  her  example  we  grow  more 
selfish  by  knowing  her.  To  this  imperfect  sketch  of  her 
mind  I  must  add  something  on  her  many  accomplishments 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  179 

and  her  great  ingenuity ;  and  here  we  should  wonder  how 
she  has  found  time  to  make  herself  mistress  of  so  many 
ingenious  arts,  if  we  did  not  consider  that  dress  and  the 
adorning  of  the  person  that  takes  up  so  great  a  part  of 
that  of  most  of  our  sex,  only  employs  so  much  of  hers  as 
the  exactest  neatness  requires,  and  that  she  has  an 
activity  of  mind  that  never  lets  her  be  idle,  as  all  her 
hours  are  employed  either  in  something  useful  or  amu- 
sing. She  reads  to  improve  her  mind,  not  to  make  an  ap- 
pearance of  being  learned ;  she  writes  with  all  the  delicacy 
and  ease  of  a  woman,  and  the  strength  and  correctness 
of  a  man ;  she  paints  and  takes  views  of  what  is  either 
beautiful  or  whimsical  in  nature  with  a  surprising  genius 
and  art.  She  is  a  mistress  of  the  haq)sichord,  and  has  a 
brilliancy  in  her  playing  peculiar  to  herself;  she  does  a 
number  of  works  and  of  many  of  them  is  the  inventor, 
and  all  her  acquaintance  are  her  copyers — happy  for 
them  if  they  would  equally  endeavour  to  imitate  her 
virtues.  As  these  accomplishments  are  her  amusements 
she  treats  them  as  such,  and  sets  no  value  on  herself  for 
exceUing  in  them,  but  is  always  ready  to  teach  others 
and  desirous  they  should  excel  her,  but  those  wishes  are 
fruitless. 

Her  house  is  a  little  abstract  of  all  sorts  of  inge- 
nuity, and  like  her  heart  is  ever  open  to  the  virtuous, 
to  the  ingenious,  or  to  the  distressed — ^those  are  the  titles 
to  her  friendship  or  protection,  and  except  in  one  in- 
stance,^ where  her  partiality  has  swayed  beyond  her 
judgment^  she  has  been  as  distinguished  in  bestowing 
the  first  as  generous  in  dispensing  the  latter. 


1  This  no  doubt  was  intended  to  denote  herself— Mrs.  Donnellan. 

n2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


180  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  could  enlarge  on  all  these  particulars  much  more,  but 
I  consider  I  detain  you  too  long  from  the  pleasing  enter- 
tainment of  observing  the  actions  of  one  whose  whole  life 
wiU  better  show  you  that  charity  and  benevolence  have 
been  the  gales  that  have  filled  the  sails,  and  judgement 
and  prudence  the  pilots  that  have  directed  her  course. 

"  The  character "  here  given  of  Mrs.  Pendarves,  under  the 
name  of  Aspasia^  must  have  been  written  by  Mrs.  Donnellan  at 
Bulstrode,  for  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  when  the  friends  were 
all  together,  and  given  by  the  Duchess  to  Mrs.  Dewes  when  she  left 
Bulstrode.  The  delicacy  and  feeling  with  which  it  is  expressed, 
and  the  exact  manner  in  which  all  the  remarkable  points  in  the 
history  and  disposition  as  well  as  talents  of  Mary  Granville  are 
touched  and  described,  cannot  be  read  without  a  conviction  of  the 
sincerity  of  the  writer.  Mrs.  Donnellan  here  justifies  the  opinion 
entertained  of  her  abilities  by  Dr.  Swift,  with  whom  she  occasionally 
corresponded,  and  by  whom  she  was  always  mentioned  with  honour 
and  respect.  It  must  not  be  forgotten  that  Mrs.  Donnellan  wrote 
this  character  of  Aspasia  at  a  period  when  the  Dean  of  St.  Patrick 
was  continually  commenting  upon  the  absence  of  either  good 
English  or  anything  like  an  attempt  at  good  spelling  in  the 
majority  of  the  fine  ladies  of  the  day,  and  when  in  alluding  to  one 
of  his  correspondents  about  the  Court,  who  had  superior  mental 
endowments  and  a  very  cultivated  understanding,  he  says  that 
"  she  wrote  and  spelt  like  a  Wapping  tvench.'' 


Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Dewes  (at  Mrs,  Pendarves*s\  Clarges  Street,  Piceadiny. 

Bulstrode,  from  my  lonely  room, 
Sunday  night. 

True  love  sets  one  above  the  scoffs  of  the  world, 
and  whilst  I  gratify  my  heart,  I  bid  defiance  to  the 
Bute's  jokes,  Mr.  Du  Poivre*s  comments,  and  the 
Counsellor's  sneer.     What ! — write  when  you  have  been 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY  181 

parted  but  six  hoxirs  ?  I  did  not  imagine  there  was  so 
much,  in  this  short  separation  as  I  feel  there  is.  You  are 
wanted  in  the  breakfast-room,  dining-room,  chapel,  etc., 
missed  by  everybody !  What,  then,  are  my  thoughts  ? 
particularly  in  my  own  apartment,  which  looks  like  a 
dark  cavern  without  you.  Our  most  amiable  Duchess 
has  indulged  me  in  talking  of  you,  though  we  have  had 
but  little  time.  It  was  three  o'clock  before  church  was 
over;  there,  my  dearest  sister,  I  called  you  to  my  re- 
memberance  in  a  particular  manner, — with  most  ardent 
prayers  for  your  happiness,  and  with  the  most  grateftil 
thanksgivings  for  the  great  blessing  of  your  fiiendship. 
My  good  wishes  extended  to  every  branch  that  could 
increase  your  felicity,  and  Mr.  Dewes  and  the  dear  little 
^y*  JOM  may  believe,  had  no  small  share.  I  hope  your 
journey  was  easy ;  as  for  entertainment  on  the  road,  your 
remembrance  of  those  you  left,  and  the  joy  of  the 
dear  Mend  you  went  to  see,  amply  made  up  the  dulness 
of  your  companion,  who  was  not  qualified  to  please,  no 
more  than  improve.  But  this  is  ungrateftdly  said  of  me, 
and  I  have  a  great  mind  to  blot  it  out,  but  that  will  make 
a  sad  blur  in  my  letter,  for  to  give  Cymon  his  due,  he  is 
cml  though  not  bright^  and  I  ought  only  to  pity  what  is  a 
defect  in  nature,  and  value  him  for  his  good  will ;  but 
he  has  taken  up  ahnost  as  much  of  my  letter  as  he  did 
of  the  coach.  You  and  I  committed  a  great  error  in 
not  asking  him  to  dine  at  my  house :  I  am  in  hopes 
you  recollected  on  the  road  that  it  would  be  the  right 
thing,  and  asked  him.  I  long  to  know  what  hour  you  got 
to  town, — how  you  like  my  house  ? — if  it  is  warm  and  com- 
fortable ?  I  am  so  uni^asonable  as  to  be  impatient  to 
know  every  thought  about  it ;  and  there  is  a  mixture 


Digitized  by 


Google 


182  LIFE  AND  CX)RRBSPONDENCE 

of  love  and  vanity  in  that  wish.  I  take  it  for  granted  I 
make  a  considerable  figure  there ;  and  who  can  blame  me 
if  I  glory  in  it?  At  breakfast  the  newspapers  employed 
us  all,  the  Sovereign  sympathized  with  me,  and  we  both 
indulged  a  silence  more  agreeable  than  speaking.  Since 
dinner  we  have  had  the  usual  circle  round  the  fire,  and 
the  dear  children,  who  all  asked  me  for  '•  Pip."  Lord 
Titchfield  bid  me  give  you  "  his  lave  "  and  "  his  duty** 

I  have  many  reasons,  you  know,  to  wish  for  Tuesday- 
morning  ;  but  the  strongest  is  the  hopes  of  hearing  from 

your  most  faithful  and  aJSectionate, 

MP. 

My  very  kind  service  to  Mr.  Dewes.  Tell  Sir  John 
you  are  my  letter  to  him ;  I  will  not  trouble  him  with 
a  scrawl,  since  I  shall  see  him  so  soon.  I  hope  you  have 
seen  my  dear  Donnellan,  and  found  her  well.  I  am  sure 
she  was  glad  to  see  you  and  Lady  Sunderland.  Don't 
forget  the  needles ;  the  hook  for  the  D —  is  to  be  bated 
with  an  eel ;  I  hope  we  shall  catch  a  fine  dish  of  gudgeons. 

From  this  letter  it  appears  that  Mrs.  Dewes  had  just  left  Bui- 
strode,  and  had  gone  on  to  her  sister's  new  abode  in  Glarges  Street. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

From  Fidget's*  Fireside. 
(Bulstrode.) 

The  Duke  has  been  much  out  of  order  to-day  with  the 
gout,  not  only  in  his  foot  but  I  fear  something  of  it  in 
his  stomach,  for  he  has  complained  of  a  pain  there  and 
been  very  sick ;  that,  and  Fidg^'s  keeping  her  room  to- 

*  Mrs.  Montagu,  (Miss  Robinson). 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRa  DELANY.  183 

day,  has  taken  up  my  time  so  much,  that  I  am  reduced 
to  one  poor  half-hour  to  speak  to  my  dear  sister  in,  for 
I  have  been  nurse  to  both.  The  Duke  is  much  better 
this  evening,  and  our  amiable  Duchess  pretty  well,  but 
her  gentle  spirits  are  soon  discomposed  wheu  those  she 
loves  suffer.  Thanks  to  you  for  your  letters  ;  I  am  glad 
you  like  my  house ;  you  will  stamp  such  a  value  on  it  to 
me,  by  making  it  useful  to  you^  that  I  would  not  ex- 
change it  for  the  Treasury.  I  rejoice  at  your  finding  my 
brother  Dewes  so  well ;  it  grieves  me  to  turn  him  out, 
but  I  shall  insist  on  his  returning  as  soon  as  I  have 
settled  my  household,  for  in  truth  I  cannot  bear  to  have 
you  out  of  my  house;  but  more  of  this  when  we  meet. 
Well — never  did  plot  succeed  better  than  ours ;  'tis  well 
we  are  legal,  or  we  might  do  a  wondrous  deal  of  mischief. 
Mr.  Hachard}  swears  we  all  clubbed  into  it ;  that  Zwrote  it 
out,  and  your  clerk  (as  he  calls  him)  wrote  the  direction ; 
(for  he  is  sure  I  could  not  write  such  a  hand) .  The  Senator 
Elect  and  the  Counsellor  were  very  prim,  and  said  not  a 
word  about  their  packets,  but  to-night  Mr.  H.  threw  a 
farthing  upon  the  table,  and  said  I  blushed  at  the  sight 
of  it,  though  I  stoutly  denied  it.  A  word  or  two  has  been 
thrown  out  of  bobs  and  tr/es,  but  the  letters  not  produced. 
The  Duke's  not  being  well,  and  another  affair,  put  us  out 
of  sorts  to-day,  and  prevented  our  mirth  from  rising  very 
high.  Aletter  came  from  Lord  D — n  by  a  special  messenger 
to  desire  Lord  G.  B.  to  stand  candidate  for  Westminster ; 
many  wise  ministerial  reasons  laid  down,  which  staggered 
his  Lordship's  resolution,  but  a  Deborah  stepped  in  and 
gave  her  opinion  so  wisely  and  in  such  strong  terms. 


^  Mr.  Achard,  an  imitation  of  the  mispronunciation  of  some  illiterate  person. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


184  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

that  it  was  resolved  to  reject  the  proposal,  and  to  stand 
by  Droitwych.  Don't  mention  this  to  anybody  but 
Mr.  Dewes,  for  I  don't  think  it  right  to  spread  &mily 
news.  The  particulars  of  what  has  passed  are  too  long  for 
a  letter ;  our  judicious  friend  has  acted  like  herself;  it  was 
a  nice  afl^r,  and  required  skill  to  manage. 

The  fair  Dash  has  taken  your  place  in  my  apartment ; 
she  is  much  concerned  at  losing  your  company.  I 
have  enclosed  you  my  mother's  letter :  what  can  have 
become  of  my  guinea  ?  I  suppose  you  wrote  to  her  on 
Monday  ?  I  shall  write  next  Thursday.  This  will  not 
allow  me  to  say  more  than  that  all  here — men,  women, 
and  children — ^are  devoted  to  you;  be  very  careful  of 
yourself.  Make  my  proper  compliments  to  all  friends,  and 
love  me  ever  as  I  love  you. 


Mrs.  PeTidarves  to  Mrs.  Dewes  (at  Mrs,  Pendarvt^s)^  in  Clarges  Street, 

FiccadiUy. 

BulBtrode,  Breakfast  room  fire-side. 

The  Duke  and  Lord  George^  are  stringing  pearl,  the 
Duchess,  Dash,  and  Fidget*  writing ;  and  I  having  the 
temptation  of  the  pen,  ink,  and  paper,  the  Duke  has  just 
done  with,  so  cannot  forbear  thanking  my  most  dear  sister 
for  her  charming  letter,  that  warmed  me  in  the  midst 
of  snow ;  but  I  shall  not  attempt  answering  it  in  full, 
nor  lay  you  under  an  obligation  of  writing  me  a  long 
letter  at  a  time  that  you  have  a  variety  of  affidrs  on  your 
hands.  I  am  sure  my  house  must  please  me,  since  you 
approve  of  it ;  but  you  don*t  tell  me  if  it  smells  of  paint. 
The  Duke  of  Portland  had  a  very  good  night,  and  is 

^  Lord  George  Bentinck.  ^  Mrs.  Montagu. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  185 

mach  better  to-day.  I  hope  the  pain  will  not  return, 
if  it  should  it  will  be  very  inconvenient  at  this  time,  and 
may  stop  there  journey ;  pray  send  as  soon  bs  you  can 
to  Mr.  Tubbs,  and  order  him  to  send  me  down  a  very  good 
coach  and  four  horses  with  side-glasses ;  it  must  be  here 
on  Saturday  night,  to  carry  me  to  town  on  Sunday.  I 
don  t  know  yet  where  I  am  to  dine,  but  you  shall  have 
notice  in  time ;  the  Gvdgeons  have  not  yet  produced  the 
packets,  but  whisper  and  simper. 

i  have  drawn  out  a  very  awkward  beau  in  a  fiiU  bottomed 
wig,  and  a  man  looking  over  a  pedigree,  with  his  three 
clients  at  his  feet  offering  him  a  farthing,  which  I  design 
to  throw  on  the  green  table  at  tea-time  ,•  for  we  shall 
lose  our  sport  if  we  do  not  laugh  at  them. 

Tea  is  come,  I  am  called,  and  can  only  say  I  am 
yours  ever. 


The  Hon^.  Mrs.  Fdey  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Newport,  June  14th,  1742. 

I  am  much  obliged  to  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  for  a  very 
kind  letter.  My  design  of  waiting  on  you,  could  I  have 
put  it  into  execution,  would  have  made  me  very  happy ; 
for  it  really  would  be  great  pleasure  to  me  once  more  to 
enjoy  the  conversation  of  my  Mends  and  relations,  but 
in  my  present  situation  I  must  only  be  beholden  to  the 
newspaper ;  and  could  I  believe  that  that  intelligence  knew 
more  of  my  oion  family  and  bosom-friends  than  I  do 
by  any  other  authority,  I  should  now  wish  my  dear 
cousin  much  joy  of  her  sister's  wedding,  which  I  hope 


Digitized  by 


Google 


186  LIFE  AND  C50RRBSP0NDENCE 

may  be  attended  with  all  happiness ;  and  I  think  the 
newsmonger  has  reported  the  admirer  of  David  to  have 
acted  like  a  Solomon  I  Whatever  name  she  bears,  I 
hope  you  U  soon  have  the  pleasure  of  her  company. 
Perhaps  this  news  may  be  ^hat  you  mean  in  part  of 
your  letter,  "an  extraordinary  event  has  retarded  her;" 
not  that  I  presume  to  ask  what  those  are,  for  as  you  are 
not  left  at  liberty  to  divulge  it  to  me,  I  am  sure  on  no 
account  you  would  betray  the  secrets  of  another.  For  I 
think  no  crime  can  be  worse  than  unfaithfuhiess  to  the 
trust  of  our  friends,  and  I  call  to  mind  with  great  gratitude 
that  in  what  regards  yourself  you  show  me  the  strongest 
mark  of  your  friendship  by  your  confidence  in  me,  or 
else  you  would  have  been  married  many  months  before  I 
should  have  knovm  it.  But  I  was  in  great  hopes  when 
the  secret  was  hwwn  to  aU  the  world  I  might  have  had 
a  private  letter  to  have  accompanied  the  newspaper; 
and  till  then  I  shall  give  no  credit  to  the  report.  Nor 
have  I  mentioned  to  any  mortal  even  the  little  hint  I 
have  been  favoured  with,  and  indeed  it  caused  me  some 
diversion,  though  I  was  in  a  great  flutter  of  spirits,  when 
the  paper  was  opened,  to  see  how  Mr.  Foley  (who  poor 
man  met  with  it  first)  and  his  son  and  daughter  stared  at 
each  other,  and  cried  out  to  me,  "  You  are  secret  indeed^ 
I  assured  them  very  truly,  I  was  not  worthy  of  so  great 
a  commendation,  for  I  was  never  trusted,  which  they 
would  not  believe,  and  I  got  high  applause  from  your 
cousin  Foley  for  what  I  really  did  not  deserve.  I 
thank  God  he  is  a  m.an  of  so  much  honour,  that  were 
my  inclination  ever  so  bad,  I  should  never  dare  betray 
the  secret  of  my  friend  without  forfeiting  his  good 
opinion. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  187 

Miss  Foley  desires  me  to  add  her  brother's  com- 
pliments to  you  and  Mr.  Dewes;  my  humble  service 
waits  on  Mrs.  GxanyiUe;  the  last  I  heard  from  my 
sister  was  that  in  August  she  would  make  me  a  visit. 
Perhaps  I  may  see  in  the  next  papers  that  she  is  married, 
for  it  is  several  posts  since  I  heard.  May  all  happiness 
attend  the  happy  pair,  but  not  I  hope  more  then  to  you, 
Ma  tres  chere  cousine, 

G.  Foley. 

The  Editor  has  been  imable  to  find  the  report  of  Mrs.  Pen- 
darves's  marriage,  or  intended  marriage,  in  any  of  the  papers  of  the 
day.  But  it  certainly  was  a  false  rumour,  for  she  was  not  married 
that  year,  and  there  is  no  allusion  to  any  idea  or  intention  of  the 
sort ;  although  Mis.  Foley  had  evidently  read  it  in  a  newspaper, 
where  it  must  have  appeared  to  be  authentic,  or  she  would  not 
have  believed  it  "  The  extraordinary  event  '*  was  probably  only 
some  joke  or  jeu  d'esprit  in  which  she  was  engaged  at  Bulstrode. 


2%6  Duchets  of  ParUand  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

Jnne  22nd,  1742. 

My  dear  Pip  will,  I  hope,  never  think  my  silence  has 
been  occasioned  by  forgetfulness,  for  had  I  wrote  as  often 
as  I  have  thought  of  you,  I  should  have  tired  you  with 
dull  epistles.  I  have  two  charming  letters  by  me  of  my 
dear  friend's^  and  you  know  well  the  hurry  I  live  in,  and 
more  particularly  for  this  last  month — so  many  people 
going  out  of  town,  that  I  have  been  much  taken  up.  I  have 
hardly  had  a  tete-a-tete  with  Penny  this  fortnight.  I 
shall  not  go  to  Welbeck  till  August ;  I  believe  mama 


Digitized  by 


Google 


188  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

will  be  in  town  in  about  ten  days.  Since  I  wrote  this  I 
have  seen  Pen,  and  am  quite  troubled  my  dear  Pip  should 
think  my  silence  longhand  unkind  ;  I  am  sure  it  was  not 
meant  so.  I  am  rejoiced  to  hear  Master  is  better,  I 
hope  to  God  he  will  perfectly  recover ;  I  beg  you  will 
keep  up  your  spirits  as  much  as  &  possible  ;  consider  what 
you  owe  Mr.  Dewes  and  the  rest  of  your  friends. 

I  wish  I  could  tell  you  anything  that  could  amuse  you. 
Mr.  Northey  was  married  on  Sunday  to  the  youngest  Miss 
Viner ;  they  made  a  grand  figure.  The  eldest  daughter  * 
was  much  disappointed  that  she  stould  dance  hare-foot, 
and  desired  her  father  to  find  out  a  match  for  her.  With 
great  pains  they  produced  Mr.  Pelham,  fifty  years  older 
than  her.  He  insisted  it  should  be  put  in  the  marriage- 
articles,  that  she  should  never  come  to  London  or  wear 
jewels,  which  conditions  she  readily  complied  with  rather 
than  to  be  disappointed  of  a  husband.  Pen's  affidr  at  C — 
I  can't  say  I  like  the  appearance  of  at  present ;  I  wish 
Lord  C —  does  not  play  the  minister  with  her  which  will 
be  abominable  if  he  does,  but  it  is  so  like  their  old  prin- 
ciples, that  one  can't  help  suspecting  them. 

1  am  very  glad  you  had  the  incomparable  Princess* 
with  you,  I  am  sure  her  conversation  must  have  been 
of  service,  but  that  detestable  companion  is  really  terrible 
to  all  her  acquaintance. 

My  best  compliments  attend  Mrs.  Granville,  and  be 
assured^  whether  I  write  or  not,  my  mind  is  stiU  the  same 


1  Married  in  June,  1742,  William  Northey,  Esq.,  gnmdBon  to  the  late  Sir 
Edward  Northey,  Knt.,  Attorney-General,  to  Miss  Vyner,  daughter  to  Robert 
Vyner,  Esq.,  knight  of  the  shire  for  the  county  of  Lincoln. — London  Maga- 
zine, 

'  The  Honourable  Mrs.  Foley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  189 

to  my  dear  friend.    I  hope  I  shall  have  the  pleasure  of 
seeing  Mr.  Dewes  soon. 

Yonr  faithful  and  affectionate 
M.  Portland. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Calwich,  10  Sept.  1742. 

Most  welcome  was  Thomas  on  Tuesday  night  about 
eight  o'clock,  when  he  brought  my  dearest  sister's 
letter,  and  a  good  account  of  yours  and  my  mother's  per- 
formance of  your  journey  so  far ;  happy  will  be  the  hour 
that  brings  us  as  good  news  from  Gloucester.  Our  good 
dear  brother  bids  me  make  his  respects  and  kind  service 
acceptable. 

I   will  not    now  indulge    myself  in  lamenting  the 

dissolution  of  our  agreeable  society.     I  will  think  of 

it  with  thankMness  as  a  blessing  bestowed  that  I  had 

no  expectance  of,  and  therefore  have  no  right  to  murmur 

at  its  being  past ;  but  at  present  I  have  no  reason  to 

complain,  for,  except  the  want  I  must  always  have  of 

your's  and  my  dear  mama's   company   when  you   are 

absent,  I  live  just  as  I  could  wish  to  do ;  have  much 

business,  many  amusements,  a  pleasant  house,  charming 

fields,  and  a  companion  that,  you  know  better  than  I  can 

tell  you,  crowns  all  by  his  friendly  and  agreeable  manner. 

I  must,  for  fear  of  accidents,  say  'tis  my  brother  that  makes 

me  thus  happy ;  for  should  my  letter  fall  into  any  hands 

but  yours,  it  is  very  likely   a  brother  would  be  the  last 

person  thought  of!      The  moment  your  equipage  had 

whirled  you  out  of  sight  (for  my  brother  and  I  watched 

you  from  the  garden)  we  trapesed  all  over  Babylon  garden^ 

went  to  the  workhouse,  and  happily  met  the  smith  who 


Digitized  by 


Google 


190  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

brought  home  the  grate  for  my  room ;  Eobin  Parker  was 
immediately  set  to  work,  and  I  matched  the  tiles,  so  that 
between  us,  and  in  the  compass  of  two  days,  we  have 
finished  a  very  pretty  chimney,  my  brother  overlooking 
us  all.  Mr.  Prince  has  finished  the  cupboard  at  the  end 
of  the  closet,  but  things  are  reversed  to  what  they  were 
designed,  and  behold  the  door  openeth  into  my  mother's 
closet  instead  of  the  other  way,  and  that  which  was 
designed  to  be  a  closet  at  my  mother's  bed  head,  is  to 
be  one  to  the  other  room.  We  have  some  expectation  of 
the  paper  coming  on  Saturday  to  perfect  our  works,  and 
if  it  does,  we  propose  leaving  Calwich  on  Tuesday 
se*night,  the  one  and  twentieth.  The  new  wall  is 
almost  built  up,  and  the  covings  are  now  putting  up 
in  the  Httle  parlour,  hardly  a  room  in  the  house^  or  a 
foot  out  of  doors,  is  free  from  workmen.  I  propose 
making  a  visit  at  Snellston  next  Simday,  for  we  labour- 
ers can't  make  visits  on  working-days,  and  on  Monday 
to  go  to  Ashbourne  to  see  Mrs.  Pitzherbert,  and  to  go  to 
the  Assembly. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  191 


Miss  Robinson  to  Mrs,  Pendarves. 

ye  16th. 

K  every  fault  was  to  have  as  agreeable  a  consequence 
as  that  which  I  committed  in  not  writing  to  you,  I  am 
afraid  I  should  make  a  resolution  never  to  do  right 
again  as  long  as  I  lived.  Had  you  returned  me  thanks 
for  a  letter  /  had  wrote,  I  should  have  thought  it  done 
out  of  your  wonted  courtesy  and  good-breeding,  but  this 
complaint  I  do  and  will  think  down  right  love  and  kind- 
ness ;  and  if  it  is  an  error,  it  tends  more  to  my  happi- 
ness than  any  of  the  few  right  opinions  I  have  gained, 
and  I  will  cherish  it  as  the  prettiest  imagination  I  ever 
had  in  my  head.  But  certainly  you  love  me,  for  t/ou 
say  80,  and  you  are  sincere,  and  I  can  prove  your  love 
to  me  out  of  yoisr  good  qualities,  though  not  out  of  my  own. 
"  Madam  "  certainly  makes  a  magnificent  figure  at  the 
beginning  of  a  letter;  and  "  Devoted  humble  servant," 
brings  matters  to  a  poHte  conclusion ;  but  "  Fidget  '*  and 
**  Friend  "  sound  more  affectionately  and  much  better 
from  my  dear  Mrs.  Pendarves,  though  with  some  people 
I  would  be  "Madam,"  "Honoured  Madam,"  or  "Your 
Eeverence,"  or  anything  that  assured  me  they  would 
treat  with  the  most  distant  respect  they  could ;  but 
ceremony  is  the  tribute  of  civility  and  not  of  Mendship. 

You  are  very  right  not  to  anticipate  our  day;  we 
do  not  appear  at  Phebus's  Levdr,  After  breakfast  we 
employ  ourselves  as  you  imagine  ;  we  are  reading  Sir 
Philip  Sidney's  famous  Eomance,  which  is  far  exceeding 
the  exceedingness  of  the  most  exceeding  im^ination^  as  if, 
the  things  of  which  he  spoke  exceeded  aU  imagination,  or 
the  imagination  with  which  he  wrote  exceeded  all  things  ; 
so  much  more  excellent  are  the  things  of  which  he  writes 


Digitized  by 


Google 


192  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

as  that  the  things  which  he  writes  are  far  exceeding  all 
other  excellence,  for  art  therein  does  borrow  the  appear- 
ance of  nature,  and  nature  the  excellence  of  art,  so  the 
eye  doth  not  know  whether  to  praise  skilful  art  or 
happy  chance  therein,  but  surely  both  together  does 
greatly  delight  the  mind's  eye^  and  work  in  the  beholder 
a  goodly  admiration !  Seriously  it  is  pity,  two  such  ex- 
cellent geniuses  in  Queen  Elizabeth's  days  as  Spenser 
and  Sir  Philip  should  write  of  only  such  feigned  and 
imaginary  beings  as  fairies  and  lovers ;  now  that  the  world 
is  not  superstitious  and  credulous,  such  personages  are 
not  so  well  received  as  they  used  .to  be.  We  do  not 
only  remember  you  in  our  happy  hours,  but  the  remem-' 
brance  of  you  gives  us  hours!  Surely  by  mimicry  I 
have  fallen  into  the  style  of  Sir  Philip ;  but  to  you  I 
need  speak  no  language  but  the  language  of  the  heart 
to  assure  you  I, am  your  very  sincere  and  faithful  Mend, 

Eliza  Eobinson.^ 

P.S.  The  Duchess  desires  her  love  and  service,  and 
hopes  you  and  Miss  Granville  have  received  her  letters. 
Her  Grace  suffered  much  for  the  little  dears  r  and  when 
site  is  grieved  I  possess  no  comfort,  and  so  can  bestow 
none.  Thank  God,  they  are  now  well.  I  beg  my  com- 
pliments to  Miss  Granville. 

The  above  letter  was  evidently  in  reply  to  one  from  Mrs. 
Pendarves  reproaching  Miss  Robinson  for  not  having  written  to 
her,  and  proposing  (with  her  correspondent's  approval  as  in  the 
case  of  Ann  Granville  and  "  the  Fair  Kitty  "  CoUingwood),  to  give 
up  "  Madam,"  and  to  call  her  "  Friend,'  or  "  Fidget*'  The  intimacy 
of  Mrs.  Pendarves  and  Miss  fiobinson  was  of  early  date.     They 


^  The  Editor  discovered,  too  late  to  rectify  the  error»  that  this  letter  ought  to 
have  heen  inserted  to  5th  August,  1742,  at  which  time  she  was  married  to 
Mr.  Montagu. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  193 

lived  in  the  same  set  till  the  death  of  the  former,  who  was  Miss 
Bobinsoa's  senior,  and  both  were  especially  intimate  with  the 
Duchess  of  Portland  and  Mrs,  Donnellan,  Although  it  is  impossible 
not  to  admire  the  cleverness  of  Miss  Bobinson  and  her  power  of 
expression,  yet  her  letters  give  the  impression  of  sense  and  reason 
being  often  sacrificed  to  make  a  point  or  to  round  a  period. 
In  the  present  epistle  the  well-sounding  sentence  of  "  ceremony 
being  the  tribute  of  civility  but  not  of  friendship,"  conveys  the 
idea  that  there  eottld  be  no  friendship  where  ceremony  existed : 
whereas  the  respectful  form  of  address  which  for  years  had  been 
customary  between  them  had  been  no  obstacle  to  their  increasing 
regard  ;  and  experience  proves  that  the  flippant  and  familiar  style 
so  often  adopted  in  the  present  age  frequently  prevents  the  forma- 
tion of  any  friendship  or  causes  its  destruction — whilst  the  increased 
disregard  to  any  proper  established  forms  in  writing  is  attended  by 
many  inconveniences  without  any  one  advantage. 


Mn.  Pefidanfes  to  Mrs,  Vetoes, 

(Part  of  a  letter,  postmark  13,  Se.) 
(Calwich,) 

No  letters  came  by  yesterday *s  post ;  Tuesday  was  so 
rainy  I  could  not  walk  out.  On  Wednesday  Thomas  gave 
us  notice  of  a  hare  svttingy  so  out  we  all  sallied  with  deadly 
designs,  and  poor  puss  was  caught  in  the  field  next  the 
west  field ;  fi-om  thence  when  our  sport  was  over  we  went 
a  mo88  gathermgy  and  were  caught  in  a  smart  shower  of 
rain,  came  home  in  a  fine  daggled  condition,  but  com- 
forted ourselves  soon  with  a  good  fire  and  tea.  Has 
not  the  weather  been  cold  even  to  you?  here  it  has 
been  very  sharp,  and  we  have  had  fires  every  day,  and 
if  Mr.  Dewes  had  been  here  he  could  not  have  stood  by 
the  pond  side  for  three  hours  together !     The  fish  leap 

VOL.  11.  o 


Digitized  by 


Google 


194  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDENCE 

for  joy  that  he  is  gone,^  and  they  are  the  only  animals 
that  can  have  cause  to  rejoice  at  his  absence.  I  have  not 
yet  wrote  one  of  the  twelve  letters  I  was  to  have  written 
this  week.  My  tenderest  love  attends  you,  my  most 
dear  sister.  I  beg  my  humble  duty  to  dear  mama^  and 
my  service  to  Mr.  Dewes. 


The  Duchm  (^  PortUxndto  Mn.  Dewes, 

Welbeck,  Sep.,  20th. 

My  dear  Pip,  I  was  in  hopes  to  have  thanked  you 
yesterday  for  the  very  kind  letter  I  received  that  day, 
but  it  was  impossible,  for  time  is  as  precious  as  if  I  was 
in  London.  You  rejoiced  me  greatly  with  telling  me 
you  bore  your  journey  so  well ;  was  impatient  to  hear 
it,  as  I  must  be  for  everything  that  concerns  your 
welfare.  I  am  sorry  to  a  great  degree  that  our  dearest 
Pen  still  continues  to  have  a  cough,  I  wish  she  would 
drink  asses  milk,  but  I  am  sure  if  you  can't  persuade  her 
it  is  not  in  my  power  to  effect  it.  I  am  quite  of  your 
mind,  and  heartily  wish  you  may  be  well  in  your  bed 
before  she  gets  to  you.  I  must  beg  you  will  wear  hare- 
skins;  they  are  the  most  comfortable  things  in  the 
world.  We  got  here  perfectly  well.  My  Lord  has  had  a 
little  fit  of  the  gout,  but  he  is  now  almost  well,  and  I 
hope  he  will  have  no  more  returns;  the  two  eldest 
girls  travelled  with  us,  they  were  very  diverting,  and 
the  little  ones  no  sort  of  trouble.  I  hope  to  write  to 
Mrs.  Duncombe  this  post,  but  if  it  is  not  in  my  power  I 
beg  you  will  assure  her  of  my  sincerest  compliments, 

'  The  love  of  fishing  was  hereditary  in  ihe  Bewes'  family,  wjio  were  aU 
anglers  from  childhood  to  the  third  and  fourth  generation. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  195 

and  that  it  has  been  a  cmel  mortification  not  to  have 
done  it  so  long.  I,  however,  love  her  much,  and  am 
very  glad  she  looks  so  well. 

The  behaviour  of  the  Troglodites  exceeds  their  usual 
out-doings  in  ingratitude.  I  went  the  Sunday  before  I 
came  out  of  town  to  the  Arch  Dragon,^  by  appointment, 
to  know  of  her  whether  the  report  of  our  friend's  pro- 
motion was  to  be  depended  upon ;  and  after  flattering 
her  pretty  sufficiently,  she  told  me  she  knew  nothing  of 
the  matter,  that  she  believed  there  was  nothing  in  it, 
and  that  her  son  was  never  interested  in  anybody's  busi- 
ness, his  whole  mind  being  taken  up  in  doing  good  to 
the  nation^  and  till  the  French  was  drove  out  of  Ger- 
many, and  Prague  was  taken,  he  could  not  think  of  such 
a  bagatelle  as  that.  I  own  she  put  me  in  a  passion,  but 
I  was  afraid  of  showing  it  least  I  should  do  mischief; 
but  after  expostulating  with  her  that  it  was  doing  the 
nation  service  to  put  proper  people  about  the  Eoyal 
&mily,  and  how  much  the  C —  would  be  obliged  to  him, 
she  said,  the  less  it  was  talked  of  the  better^  and  that  her 
Mends  should  not  mention  it.  My  own  opinion  is  that 
Pen  should  write  to  Ba,*  to  acquaint  him  of  their  whole 
proceeding,  and  ask  his  advice,  and  be  ruled  by  him, 
but  I  fear  nobody  can  do  it  but  the  Troglodites.  I  de- 
sired Mrs.  Don*  to  write  this  account  to  Pen,  and  my 
advice,  for  I  had  not  time  upon  the  road ;  if  she  has 
not,  be  so  good  to  acquaint  her  with  this,  which  will 
save  her  the  trouble  of  a  repetition  letter.  I  think  I 
should  be  glad  that  afiair  of  Miss  Dodwell  was  to  succeed. 


'  Grace  Countess  Granville. 
2  Lord  Baltimore. 


o2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


196  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

for  I  cannot  be  more  troubled  than  I  am  at  present. 
This  place  is  fine  and  agreeable;  and  indeed  mama's 
excessive  goodness  to  us  would  make  any  place  so. 
Thank  God  she  is  very  well  and  in  high  spirits  I  My  dear 
Pip,  you  forgot  Lord  George  was  a  member  of  the  Hon**** 
House,  and  my  directions  about  the  letter:  after  you 
had  sealed  up  my  letter  you  was  to  write  a  D.  and  a  P. 
of  each  side  the  seal,  and  no  other  direction  than  inclose 
it  to  Lord  George. 

Adieu,  ever  yours,  my  dear  jfriend. 
May  you  have  a  short  and  happy  minette    is  most 
sincerely  the  wish  of  your  ever  affectionate 

And  faithful  friend. 

My  Lord  desires  his  compliments  ;  mine  attend  Mr. 
Dewes,  Mrs.  Gfranville,  and  Mrs.  Viney,  who,  I  hope, 
will  let  me  know  as  soon  as  you  are  in  your  bed,  if  Pen 
i8  not  with  you.  ^  ^  Portland. 

It  appears  that  the  Duchess  of  Portland  was  not  satisfied  with 
the  conduct  of  Lord  Carteret  or  his  mother,  Countess  Granville, 
in  relation  to  Mrs.  Pendarves's  appointment  at  Court,  and  that 
she  had  confidence  in  TjotA  Baltimore's  sincerity  and  advice, 
although  she  did  not  believe  his  interest  was  sufficient  to  carry 
anything  without  the  sincere  co-operation  of  Lord  Carteret,  who 
seems  to  have  been  very  supine,  probably  owing  to  the  offence 
^ven  to  Countess  Granville  by  Mr.  Granrille^s  taking  a  lawyer's 
advice,  and  not  leaving  all  his  affairs  in  relation  to  the  divi«on  of 
the  Albemarle  estates  to  Lord  Carteret's  management. 

Mrs.  Montagu  writes,  October  10th,  1742,  to  Mrs.  Donellan: 

"  I  am  glad  Mrs.  Dewes  has  not  suffered  so  terribly  this 
time ;  as  for  Pen,  she  is  not  a  daughter  of  Eve,  but  of 
the  collateral  branch  of  Enoch,  who  walked  as  an  angel 
before  the  children  of  men." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


'     OF  MRS.  DELAKY.  197 

^Mrs,  Pendarves  to  Mrs,  Detves,  at  Qlocuter, 

Clarges  Street,  12  Nov^  1742, 

Your  delightM  letter  made  me  happy  last  Wednesday, 
at  Mrs.  Percival's,  where  I  was  invited  to  fast,  but  truly 
it  is  one  of  the  last  houses  .one  should  go  to  for  that  pur- 
pose, for  the  company  of  affectionate  sensible  friends  is 
the  highest  feast.  However,  the  day  was  checkered,  my 
poor  Donnellan  was  very  much  out  of  order  with  sick- 
ness and  pains;  in  the  evening  came  your  letter,  she 
grew  better,  and  I  was  happy.  She  goes  next  Monday 
to  Twickenham,  to  Mr.  Hoare's  for  a  fortnight.  I  hope 
a  little  good  air  and  change  of  place  will  do  her  good, 
and  that  will  please  me  better  even  than  her  company. 

I  am  as  much  perplexed  far  you  as  you  can  be  for 
yourself  in  regard  of  my  godson,  but  I  think  if  you  can 
be  reconciled  to  the  nurse's  house,^  that  the  story  you 
have  heard  can  be  no  great  objection,  but  will  rather  for 
the  future  make  her  more  careful,  as  she  seems  to  be  a 
good  sort  of  woman.  A  deaf  nurse  is  not  to  be  endured ; 
the  poor  dear  may  make  his  Httle  moans,  and  have  a 
thousand  uneasinesses  that  she  will  hear  nothing  of.  I 
must  desire  you  to  send  a  chine  of  pork  to  Sir  J.  S.,  and 
another  to  the  Percivals'  by  the  return  of  the  next  carrier, 
but  remember  as  I  write  for  them  I  must  pay,  or  I  never 
will  speak  to  you  of  what  I  want  again  as  long  as  I  live. 
Donnellan  was  very  much  pleased  with  your  pretty  basons 
and  sweet  bag, — they  adorn  her  toilette.  Yesterday  I  went 
to  the  play,  to  Eichard  the  Third,  with  Lady  Mary  CoUey  * 

*  It  was  the  onstom  at  this  period  for  gentlemen's  children  to  be  nursed  in 
the  cottages  of  their  wet  nurses  or  in  farm  houses,  and  Mrs.  Dewes's  children 
were  thus  nursed. 

«  Lady  Mary  Hamilton,  third  daughter  of  James  Earl  of  Aborcom,  married 
in  1719,  Henry  CoUey,  Esq.,  elder  brother  of  Richard  CoUey,  Esq.,  who  was 
created  Baron  of  Mornington.  Lady  Mary  CoUey  had  a  son,  who  died  in 
infancy,  and  two  daughters ;  the  younger  of  whom,  Mary,  married  in  1747, 
Arthur  Fomoroy,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


198  LIFE  AND  CfOBRESPONDElJCE 

and  her  daughter.  Garrick  acted  with  his  usual  excellence ; 
but  I  think  I  won't  go  to  any  more  such  deep  tragedies, 
they  shock  the  mind  too  much,  and  the  common  objects 
of  misery  we  daily  meet  with  are  sufficient  mortifications. 
Mrs.  Hyet  sat  just  before  us  in  her  blue  and  silver,  and 
with  her  horns  exalted  above  her  fellows.  In  the  even- 
ing I  go  to  Bond  Street.  Yesterday  I  dined  with  Lady 
Sunderland;  she  is  complaining  but  better  than  when 
she  went  to  Tunbridge ;  to-morrow  Mr,  Dewes  dines 
with  me.  A  word  to  the  Princess  before  I  close :  can 
she  forgive  my  not  having  yet  particularly  paid  my  de- 
voirs ?  Tes,  I  know  she  can ;  as  she  has  been  accustomed 
to  the  many  hurries  and  time-devouring  accidents  of  this 
huge  place. 

This  moment  my  Lord  B.^  has  been  with  me,  and  he  ad- 
vises  me  by  all  means  to  get  the  Duke  of  Bedford  to  ask ; 
as  if  he  does,  he  is  sure  it  will  be  granted  much  sooner 
than  if  the  other  person  does  it,  and  he  would  have  me 
send  to  my  Lord  Gower,  and  desire  him  to  request  it  of  the 
Duke  of  Bedford.  He  staid  above  an  hour,  looks  well,  and 
seems  sincere  in  his  way  of  advising  me,  and  wished  me 
joy  of  my  going  to  alter  my  condition.  How  can  such 
a  report  with  so  little  reason  he  spread  so  far  f  Don't  say 
anything  of  Guyamore's  advice  to  Princess^ — I  know  she 
will  not  approve  of  it,  and  I  am  resolved.  The  fair  Maid 
of  Honour,  Donnellan,  and  Mr.  Dewes  dined  with  me  to- 
day ;  the  news  of  the  town  is,  Mr.  Doddington  owns  his 
marriage  with  Miss  Bean.* 


1  Lord  Baltimore. 

a  Grace  Granville  (Mrs.  Foley)  was  often  called  "  Princess,"  and  Mrs.  Pen- 
darves  probably  expected  her  opposition  to  placing  more  confidence  in  Lord 
Gower  than  in  Ann  Granville. 

■  Horace  W^alpole  writes,  Novr.  15,  1742 : — "  Mr.  Dodington  has  at  last 
owned  his  match  with  his  old  mistress,**  Mrs.  Beghcm,     Though  secretly 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBSL  DELANY.  199 

MxB.  Fendarves's  aUusion  to  Lord  Baltimore's  visit  and  advice 
proves  that  they  must  have  been  in  the  habit  of  meeting  again  as 
fiiendsy  an^  previous  passages  had  indicated  that  thej  spoke,  and 
that  she  had  acknowledged  his  civility  at  Court  as  an  acquaintance ; 
but  this  is  the  first  instance,  at  the  end  of  twelve  years,  of  her 
mentioning  his  name  as  '' Gruyamore."  Lord  Baltimore  was 
evidently  at  this  time  a  friend  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland's,  who 
had  confidence  in  his  advice  with  respect  to  the  contending 
interests  at  Court,  where  a  place  was  in  contemplation  for  Mrs. 
Pendarves  with  her  own  consent  and  approval ;  a  fiust  which  con- 
clusively establishes  the  sincerity  of  her  expressions  of  surprise  at 
the  report  of  her  marriage,  whidi  can  only  be  accounted  for  by  the 
supposition  that  although  she  was  herself  ignorant  of  Dr.  Delany's 
sentiments,  yet  that  he  had  confided  in  some  fiiend,  who  had 
betrayed  his  confidence  before  he  had  the  courage  to  propose. 


Mn.  Pendarva  to  Mn.  Dewes. 

Glarges  Street,  29  Not.  1742. 

I  have  dined  two  days  together  in  Arlington  Street, 
bat  heard  no  other  discourse  than  what  tended  to  the 
finery  of  yesterday/  My  Lord  C  was  in  plain  doth; 
(*tis  well  if  his  heart  had  the  simplicity  of  his  garment,) 
which  was  what  it  appeared  to  be  a  good,  warm,  clean, 
coat.  My  ladr/^  was  in  dark  green  velvet  trimmed  with 
ermine,  and  an  ermine  petticoat — a  present  from  her 
son,  but  it  wotdd  have  better  suited  the  slender-waisted 
daughter  Fanny,  who  had  a  scarlet  damask  and  all  her 

nuffried,  he  could  not  own  her,  as  he  thea  did,  till  the  death  of  Mrs.  Straw- 
bridge,  to  whom  he  had  given  a  promise  of  marriage  under  a  penalty  of 
10,0001.  George  Babb  Doddington,  (created  Lord  Meloombe,  in  1761 ;  died, 
1762.) 

'  On  the  occasion  of  the  birthday  of  the  Princess  of  Wales. 

'  Coontess  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


200  LIFE  AND  COBBESPONDENCE 

mother's  jewels,  was  very  well  dressed,  and  became  her 
clothes.  I  have  not  seen  her  look  so  well.  Mrs.  Spencer 
was  in  blue  and  silver.  But  our  fair  Maid  of  Honour  * 
outshone  them  all;  clad  in  rich  pink  satin  trimmed 
with  silver,  more  blooming  and  dazzling  than  anything 
there  except  her  own  complexion :  she  was  perfectly 
well  dressed,  and  looked  so  modest  and  unaffected,  that 
I  think  I  never  saw  a  more  agreeable  figure ;  in  the 
evening  I  went  to  Lady  North's,^  where  I  saw  but  few 
people.  The  Duchess  of  Montrose '  was  in  silver  tissue ; 
Lady  Scarborough  *  in  blue  damask  with  a  gold  trim- 
ming. There  were  several  very  handsome  flowered  silks, 
shaded  like  embroidery;  but  the  finest  clothes  were  Lady 
Caroline  Lenox's,*  gold  and  colours  on  white,  embroidered 
by  Mrs.  Wright.  There  was  a  very  fnU  Court,  and  great 
confusion  in  getting  in  and  out  at  Leicester  House ;  the 
Princesses'  ladies  were  aflfronted  by  the  Princess  of  Wales's. 


1  *'  The  Honourable  Elizabeth  Granville,  daughter  of  Greorge  Lord  Lans- 
do  wne  is  named  Maid  of  Honour  in  the  room  of  Miss  Hamilton,  who  I  told 
you,  is  to  be  Lady  Brook."—  Walpole's  Letters,  April  22,  1742.  Mrs.  Pen- 
darvcs  appears  to  have  been  at  Bulstrode,  as  v)eU  as  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  the  time 
of  this  appointment,  which  accounts  for  its  not  being  mentioned  in  her  letters. 

*  Francis,  3rd  Baron  Guilford,  succeeded  on  the  death  of  his  cousin,  1734, 
to  the  Barony  of  North.  He  was  bom  in  1704,  and  married  first,  in  1726, 
Lady  Lucy  Montagu,  daaghter  of  George  Earl  of  Hali&z,  by  whom  he  had 
one  son,  Frederick,  his  successor,  and  a  daughter,  Lucy,  bom  in  1734.  He 
married,  secondly,  in  1736,  Elizabeth  Viscountess-Dowager  of  Lewisham,  by 
whom  he  had  two  surviving  children.  The  Baion  married,  thirdly,  Anne 
CJountess-Dowager  of  Rockingham,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Sir  Robert  Furmese, 
Bart.,  by  whom  he  had  no  issue.  Was  created  Earl  of  Guilford,  8th  of  April, 
1752,  and  died  the  4th  of  August,  1790. 

»  Lucy,  daughter  of  John,  2nd  Duke  of  Rutland,  married  in  1742,  William, 
2nd  Duke  of  Montrose. 

*  Frances,  daughter  of  George,  Ist  Earl  of  Orkney,  married  Thomas,  3rd 
Earl  of  Scarborough. 

*  Ijady  Georgiana  Caroline  Lennox,  daughter  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Rich- 
mond, married  to  Henry  Fox,  Esq.,  afterwards  Lord  Holland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  201 

The  story  told  on  their  side  is  this : — The  Princesses,  at- 
tended by  their  ladies,  went  to  Leicelster  House,  and 
were  immediately  carried  into  the  room  to  the  Princess 
of  Wales  before  the  drawing-room  begun ;  and  all  the 
ladies  of  both  staid  in  the  outward  i*oom.  As  soon  as 
notice  was  given  that  the  Princess  and  her  sisters  were 
going  into  the  drawing-room,  the  Princess  of  Wales's 
ladies  went  on,  and  shut  the  door  upon  the  other  ladies, 
saying,  *^  their  Princess' 8  were  not  there  J*  This  story,  as 
it  is  told,  is  very  black ;  but  it  is,  I  think,  impossible  it 
should  be  true.  There  was  one  lady  in  the  circle  whom 
nobody  knew 


Mrs,  Pendarues  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland^ 

November,  1742. 

There  was  a  quarrel  at  Leicester  House  between  the 
Princess  of  Wales's  ladies  and  the  Princesses.  Who  were 
"inost  to  blame  I  don't  know,  nor  who  got  the  better,  but  Lady 
Anne  Montague^  and  Lady  C.  Edwin^  boldly  entered  the 
list  and  scolded  most  bravely,  but  which  of  them  remained 
victor  is  not  said. 

I  have  not  been  at  an  opera  since  I  came  to  town,  and 
unfortimately  declared  before  Miss  Rich  my  indifference  to 
the  present  compositions,  who  with  a  very  contemptuous 


1  The  beginning  of  this  letter  is  wanting. 

3  Ann,  eldest  daughter  of  Robert,  3rd  Earl  of  Manchester,  married  James, 
3rd  Earl  of  SaflFolk.    She  was  that  nobleman's  third  wife. 

3  Catherine,  fourth  daughter  of  Robert,  3rd  Earl  of  Manchester,  married 
Samuel  Edwin,  of  Llanvihangel,  Esq.,  county  Glamorgan,  South  Wales. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


202  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDENCE 

smile  said  ''  I  must  not  pretend  to  love  music."  There 
are  great  divisions  amongst  the  critics  concerning^ 
Garrick's  acting.^  I  am  glad  I  am  not  such  a  critic  as 
to  find  any  fanlt  with  him.  I  have  seen  him  act  once,  and 
like  him  better  than  I  did  last  year ;  but  as  he  is  a  year 
older,  and  the  grace  of  novelty  a  little  abated,  he  mnst  of 
course  have  less  merit  with  the  generality  of  people* 
Mrs.  Foley  does  not  come  to  town  this  winter.  Miss 
Granville  is  at  Windsor.  The  Maid  of  Honour  is  much 
improved,  and  I  have  the  satisfaction  to  hear  her  be- 
haviour commended  by  everybody ;  she  was  very  fine  on 
the  Birthday,  and  looked  so  modest  and  unaffected  that  I 
was  extremely  pleased  with  her ;  she  is  in  great  favour 
in  Arlington  Street. 

Mrs.  Doddington  s  owning  her  marriage,  and  poor 
Lady  Frances  Williams'^  unhappiness  I  suppose  can  be 
no  news  at  this  time  to  your  Grace,  and  since  I  have 
nothing  to  add  that  can.  give  you  any  entertaiimieiit 
I  will  be  impertinent  no  longer. 

I  beg  my  humble  service  to  Lady  Oxford,  the  Duke, 
Mr.  Hays  and  Mr.  Achard. 

I  am,  madam. 
Tour  GhiMJe's  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

M,  F£NDARV£S. 

I  rejoice  to  hear  that  Lord  Tichfield  and  the  young 
ladies  are  well;  my  affectionate  service  always  attend 
them. 


>  Garrick  made  his  first  appearance  in  Gkx>dman's  Fields  Theatre^  October  19, 
1741,  in  the  character  of  Richard  III. 

3  Frances,  youngest  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Thomas  Earl  CkHungsby,  mar- 
ried Sir  Charles  Banbury  Williams,  Bart. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


•    OP  MRa  DBLANY.  203 

Mrs.  FendarveB  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Glarges  Street^  6  Dec.,  1742. 

Since  you  are  upon  the  wing,  my  dearest  sister,  I  shall 
address  this  letter  to  you,  though  in  duty  bound  it  ought 
to  have  been  to  my  mother,  as  I  am  now  indebted  to  her 
(beside  a  million  of  other  favours)  for  the  finest  of  chines 
and  kindest  of  letters ;  but  when  you  have  left  her  I  will 
pay  my  duty  regularly  directed  to  her ;  it  ever  awaits  her 
with  my  tenderest  affection.  I  have  been  this  morning 
with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Percival  as  far  as  the  farthest  part  of 
Cheapside  at  an  auction,  the  advertisement  of  which  pro- 
mised us  all  the  varieties  of  the  India  coast,  but  such 
trash  my  eyes  were  never  tormented  with  before ;  and  I  am 
come  home  peevish  and  disappointed,  and  have  lost  some 
hours  that  might  have  been  better  employed,  though  the 
jumble  I  believe  is  wholesome.  I  dine  at  home  that  I  may 
have  the  satis&ction  of  writing  to  you  to-day  and  telling 
you  that  Br.  Sandys  has  wrote  to  Mr.  Phillips,  and  the 
letter  went  on  Saturday.  Dr.  Sandys  told  Mr.  Clark  he 
thought  the  Bath  would  be  absolutely  necessary  for  the 
child.  Methinks  I  wish  I  had  the  little  boy  with  me  here 
that  the  most  skillful  might  be  consulted,  if  you  and  his 
&ther  approve  of  it ;  you  know  how  happy  it  will  make 
me  if  my  house  can  any  way  be  of  service  to  you,  and  if 
you  do  not  care  to  come  yourself^  I  shall  be  your  second 
self  in  care  and  tenderness  towards  him. 

I  send  you  Hammond's  Elegies  on  our  friend,  but  don't 
name  her  when  you  show  them.  I  pity  her ;  I  am  sure 
she  must  be  touched  when  she  reads  them,  and  I  think  it 
not  handsomely  done  of  the  person  who  published  them 
without  her  leave. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


204  LIFE  AND  CX)RRESPONDENCE 

Craik  (in  his  Histoiy  of  Literature  and  Learning  in  England) 
says,  that  "  Hammond,  the  author  of  the  Love  Elegies,  who  died 
in  1742,  went  mad,  and  eventually  to  his  grave,  by  love  of  Mrs. 
Dash  wood,  who  under  the  name  of  Ddia  is  the  subject  of  his  verses, 
and  who  survived  him  thirty-seven  years.  Mrs.  Dashwood  was  the 
intimate  friend  of  Mrs,  Pendarves  and  Mrs*  Dewes,  and  the 
allusion  in  the  preceding  letter  confirms  the  truth  of  her  being  the 
object  of  Hammond's  hopeless  passion. 


Mrs*  PmdarveM  to  Mrs,  Detoes. 

is  quite  angry  that  I  would  not  let  my  room  be 


hung  with  mohair  instead  of  paper,  which  I  absolutely 
would  not ;  it  would  have  been  ridiculous  when  I  design 
to  cover  it  with  pictures.  I  have  hung  up  two  that  I  have 
robbed  the  cabinet  of — Trevisani's  Holy  Family  and 
Summer,  and  the  cabinet  is  better  without  them — it  was 
before  too  much  crowded ;  those  two  pictures  and  my 
Lady  Weymouth's  make  the  end  of  my  room  where  my 
harpsichord  stands  look  very  gay.  Yesterday  I  went  early 
to  the  Duchess  of  Portland  to  help  to  settle  her  dress  for 
the  Birthday  :  her  clothes  are  brown  and  gold ;  she  will  be 
a  fine  figure ;  her  stomacher  all  diamonds,  and  a  bouquet  to 
wear  on  one  side  (in  the  French  maimer),  of  all  the  coloured 
jewels,  which  I  made  up  for  her  yesterday.  She  is  very 
well  and  very -happy,  and  sends  her  *'kind  lave  to  Pip" 

Mrs.  Montague  is  on  the  road  to  town.  At  Leicester 
her  sister  was  taken  so  violently  ill,  that  she  has  been 
forced  to  stay  there  a  day  or  two  on  her  account,  but 
is  better,  and  she  hopes  to  be  in  tovni  on  Wednesday 
night;  I  feel  for  her  distress  having  her  sister 
so  ill  and  no  good  help  near  her.  My  brother  is  very 
well,  his  politeness  shows  well  on  such  occasions. 
I  had   almost   forgot  to  tell  you  that   I  was  making 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY,  205 

the  tea  in  the  cabinet  last  Wednesday  (a  card  table  set  in 
the  dining-room,  the  rest  of  the  company  with  me),  when 
who  should  glide  in  but  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury,  in 
a  mob  and  white  hood  pinned  close  under  her  chin,  a 
yellow  mohair  gown,  no  ruffles,  only  little  frills  sewed  to 
her  shift,  no  hoop,  a  tumbled  apron,  and  her  capuchin 
dangling  round  her  arm;  yet  there  was  a  grace  in  her 
altogether,  that  shone  out  in  spite  of  her  dress.  I  believe 
she  was  a  little  surprized  at  finding  my  rooms  so  full ;  she 
stopped  in  the  outward  room  and  said,  upon  not  seeing 
me  there,  and  the  room  so  fine,  '^  I  am  afraid  I  have  mis- 
taken the  house  ,•"  upon  which  my  brother,  who  was  at 
cards,  got  up  and  introduced  her  into  the  cabinet.  She 
was  in  a  very  good  humour,  but  it  would  have  been  more 
decent  for  her  to  have  staid  at  home  till  my  Lord  Essex  * 
was  buried,  though  he  has  been  a  worthless  wretch,  and 
particularly  so  to  her  sister. 

Now  I  talk  of  worthlessness,  I  must  tell  you  the  present 
discourse  of  the  town  is  that  Lord  Euston  ^  is  certainly 
going  to  be  married  to  his  sister-in-law,  Lady  Augustus 

'  WiUiam,  3rd  Earl  of  Essex,  married,  in  1718,  Lady  Jane  Hyde,  eldest  sur- 
viving  daughter  of  Henry  Earl  of  Clarendon,  by  whom  he  had  four  daughters. 
The  Countess  died  in  1724.  His  Lordship  married,  secondly,  February  3, 
1726,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Wriothesley,  2nd  Duke  of  Bedford,  but  only  a  son 
and  two  daughters  lived  to  maturity.    He  died  January  8,  1743. 

*  Lady  Dorothy  Boyle,  eldest  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Richard,  3rd  and 
last  Earl  of  BurUngton,  married  George  Earl  of  Euston,  eldest  son  of  Charles, 
2nd  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  died  without  children  the  year  after  her  marriage. 
Upon  a  picture  of  Lady  Dorothy  Boyle,  at  Chiswick,  is  the  following  inscrip- 
tion written  by  her  mother. 

«« Lady  Dorothy  Boyle, 
Bom  May  the  14th,  1724. 

'*  She  was  the  comfort  and  joy  of  her  parents,  the  delight  of  all  who  knew 
her  angelick  temper,  and  the  admiration  of  all  who  saw  her  beauty.  She  was 
married  October  18th,  1741,  and  delivered  (by  death)  from  misery,  May  the 
2nd,  1742.* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


206  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Fitzroy ;  and  that  he  has  made  enquiry  what  the  expense 
will  be  to  keep  out  of  the  spiritual  Court.  What  a 
monster  he  will  shew  himself  to  be,  and  his  co-partner  in 
wickedness  no  less  so  !  If  this  be  true  it  will  confirm  every 
villanous  action  he  has  been  suspected  of.  How  happy 
was  it  for  poor  Lady  Euston  to  be  removed  from  such  a 
villain !  I  believe  I  shall  go  to-night  to  see  Garrick  with 
Miss  Granville  and  my  brother ;  they  are  to  dine  with  me. 
Donnellan  is  better,  though  complaining,  and  is  grown  a 
perfect  shadow. 

The  beginning  and  end  of  this  letter  have  not  been  foimd,  and  it 
is  not  dated,  but  the  death  of  Lord  Essex  which  took  place  in 
8th  January  1743,  proves  that  it  must  have  been  written  during  that 
month  and  year.  After  this  date,  there  is  an  interval  in  the  corres- 
pondence with  Mrs.  Dewes  of  more  than  two  months,  in  which 
Mrs.  Pendarves  probably  met  her  sister  at  Mr.  Granville's  at 
Calwich. 


Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Clarges  Street,  23  April,  1743. 

My  dearest  sister,  how  much  in  vain  is  it  to  say  I 
will  sit  down  and  write  a  long  letter  in  this  same  popu- 
lous city,  where  everybody  cuts  and  carves  one's  time  as 
they  please,  without  considering  the  preciousness  of  the 
commodity,  and  that  they  cannot  restore  what  they  rob 
us  of.  Monday's  post,  I  hope,  will  bring  me  the  happy- 
news  of  my  mother's  and  the  little  brat's  safe  arrival  at 
Bradley.  Many  thanks  to  you  for  your  last  letter.  You 
say  Mr.  Dewes  will  come  soon  to  town ;  he  will  be  wel- 
come when  he  comes,  though  I  shall  soon  leave  him  when 
he  does  come.    I  wrote  you  word  Sir  John  Stanley  had  de- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS,  DELANY.  207 

termined  to  go  to  the  Bath.  I  wrote  to  Lady  Sarah  Cowper 
to  take  lodgings,  the  coach  was  ordered,  the  day  fixed, 
and  my  brother's  spirits  and  mine  much  elated  with  the 
prospect  of  his  pursuing  the  only  method  we  were  assured 
by  Dr.  Wihnot  could  be  of  service  to  him ;  but  the 
wind  is  changed — ^he  says  he  has  not  strength  to  per- 
form the  journey.  The  lodgings  are  unhespoke^  the  coach 
forbid  J  and  we  are  quite  chagrined  about  it;  but  there  is 
no  attemptmg  to  alter  his  resolution — it  may  of  itself, 
but  never  on  persuasion  :  such  is  man ! 

Yesterday  morning  Bet  Castlemam  came  and  break- 
£isted  with  me,  and  told  me  all  her  concerns.  She  is  in 
fijie  spirits,  I  hope  with  reason ;  her  prospect  is  a  fair  one, 
and  I  believe  matrimony  never  appeared  with  more  advan- 
tage than  it  does  at  present  in  her  eyes.  Next  Monday  is 
the  day  appointed,  and  her  haughty,  perverse  sister  has  not 
offered  to  go  with  her  to  church.  Mrs.  Hopkins  has  pro- 
mised to  go  with  her  (if  she  is  well  enough) ;  and  if  not, 
I  have  prormsed  her  I  mil  go ;  her  brother  gives  her 
away ;  nobody  else  goes.  As  soon  as  they  are  married 
they  are  to  breakfast  with  me,  and  go  before  dinner  to 
Lady  Bead,^  aunt  to  Mrs.  Brinsdel,  where  they  stay  a 
week  or- fortnight.  I  am  to  tell  you  that  the  servant  you 
recommended  to  Mrs.  Bet  Castleman  'must  not  depend 
on  her,  because  she  has  some  thoughts  of  keeping  a 
servant  that  is  now  in  the  family ;  but  if  that  servant  does 
not  go  into  the  country  with  her  (which  she  is  not  sure 
she  will),  then  she  will  take  the  other  in  case  she  is  at 
liberty  to  come  to  her.     So  much  for  Bet. 

I  dined  at  Carteret  House  last  Thursday ;  nothing 
passed  concerning  my  affairs.     They  were  in  a  mighty 

^  Query,  wife  of  Sir  Thomas  Head,  and  daughter  of  Sir  Ralph  Button. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


208  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

hurry  preparing  for  the  Hanover  journey/  Lord  and 
Lady  Carteret  set  out  on  Tuesday.  The  old  D.  is  alive 
and  alive  is  like  to  be ;  she  asked  me  when  Mr.  Dewes 
came  to  town,  and  said  "  if  he  liked  to  be  a  commissioner 
of  bankruptcy  she  could  get  it  for  him,  but  should  not 
look  upon  that  as  providing  for  him,  but  would  serve  for 
pocket-money  in  the  meantime.^*  I  hope  he  will  be  able 
to  arrange  about  Welsbourn ;  I  have  bought  mama's 
nightgown,  and  to-morrow  Mrs.  Foley  sets  out  for  Stoke, 
and  will  leave  it  at  Gloucester  for  her.  I  dine  to-day  at 
Mrs.  Percival's  to  meet  the  Southwells,  who  are  going  out 
of  town ;  in  the  afternoon  we  have  a  musical  party  at 
Lady  Catherine  Hanmer  s. 

Last  Thursday  there  was  a  masquerade  at  Banelagh, 
I  had  a  ticket  offered  me,  and  refused  going,  because  it 
was  a  rainy  night ;  was  not  that  very  discreet  ?  Mrs. 
Wingston  is  come  to  town ;  I  had  just  now  a  messag^e 
from  her — I  had  rather  she  had  staid  at  Bristol.  Lady 
Westmoreland^  comes  to  me  this  morning  by  appoint- 
ment, and  we  shall,  I  suppose,  settle  about  our  Kentish 
journey ;  but  I  am  shilly-shally  about  it  in  my  own  mind, 
as  it  will  be  expensive,  and  keep  me  longer  from  Bradley. 
To-morrow  Lady  North  and  the  Montagus  drink  tea  with 
me :  I  dine  at  Whitehall.  Lady  Sunderland  is  pretty 
well,  and  was  at  the  Percival  assembly  ;  the  town  is  much 
healthier  than  it  was.  Thank  God!  all  our  Mends  are  well ; 
and  I  have  not  had,  nor  my  brother,  the  least  touch  of  the 


>  "  In  1743  Lord  Carteret  waited  on  his  Majesty  to  Hanover,  who  before  his 
leaving  St.  James',  appointed  him  one  of  the  Lords  Justices,  and  his  Lordship 
attended  all  the  campaign  that  year  in  Germany.** — CcUtns, 

>  John,  7th  Earl  of  Westmoreland,  married  Maiy,  only  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Lord  Henry  Cavendish,  second  son  of  William  Duke  of  Devonshire, 
but  died  without  issue,  August  26,  1762, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  209 

influenza  :  the  blustering  winds  we  have  had  of  late  I  hope 
have  carried  off  all  unwholesome  vapours.  My  best  and 
affectionate  duty  to  dear  mama,  kind  service  to  Mr. 
Dewes,  and  to  yourself  say  from  me  all  you  would  say 
to  me. 

Instead  of  an  account  of  Mrs.  Pendarves'  excursion  to  Kent, 
which  was  in  contemplation  with  Lady  Westmoreland  at  the  con- 
clusion of  the  above  letter,  circumstances,  evidently  totally  unex- 
pected  by  herself y  directed  her   thoughts  into  a  very  different 
channel.     On  the  very  day— possibly  at  the  very  hour  that  she 
was  communicating  her  doubts  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  as  to  the  prudence 
of  complying  with  Lady  Westmoreland's  wishes,  (because  it  would 
not  only  entail    additional   expense,  but    probably   prolong   her 
absence  from  that  sister  who  ^till  continued  the  chief  object  of  her 
life,)  another  individual  was  writing  to  herself,  who  eventually 
exercised  a  most  important  influence  over  her  future  existence. 
The  following  letter  from  Dr.  Delany  to  Mary  Granville  (Mrs. 
Pendarves)  has  happily  escaped  destruction,  and  may  be  considered 
a  model  letter  of  proposal  as  far  as  words  can  give  immistakable 
evidence  of  deep  sincerity,  individual  humility,  and  a  high  principle 
of  honour.     In  this  composition  there  are  no  unmeaning  phrases. 
Before  he  arrived  in  London,  he  determined  openly  to  declare  the 
purport  of  his  journey  from  Ireland,  to  state  simply  his  conscious- 
ness of  falling  far  short  of  her  desert,  but  yet  to  admit  a  hope  that 
the  similarity  of  their  tastes  and  pursuits  might  possibly  induce  her 
to  share  his  home.     He  enumerates  with  plain  straightforward 
good  sense,  details  sufficient  to  prove  that  she  would  lose  none  of 
the  reasonable  comforts  of  life    by  accepting    him,  yet  this   is 
done  in  so  simple  a  manner  as  to  be  really  touching  from  its  un- 
idSected  truth;  and  although  no  one  can  peruse  it  without  feeling 
convinced  that  Dr.  Delany  entertained  more  fear  than  hope^  yet 
there  is  a  conscious  dignity  and  a  delicate  devotion  in  the  feeling 
he  expresses,  that  he  never  could  be  lowered  by  her  r^'ection 
though  the  chance  of  her  acceptance  was  worth  any  effort  he  could 
make  to  obtain  it. 

VOL.  II.  P 


Digitized  by 


Google 


210  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  fact  of  Sir  Clement  Cottrell  Dormer  having  invited  Dr. 
Delany  to  remain  with  him  in  London,  proves  that  he  was  an 
intimate  friend,  and  cognizant  of  his  intended  visit  to  England,  and 
possibly  he  might  have  been  an  indiscreet  confidant  of  his  intentions 
long  beforehand,  and  thus  have  caused  the  rumour  which  had  been 
propagated  the  previous  year,  when  Dr.  Delany  had  been  a  wi- 
dower above  twelve  months,  during  which  time  he  had  constantly 
remained  in  Ireland. 


Br,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 
Madam,  Dimstable,  April  23,  1743. 

I  am  thus  far  on  my  way  to  wait  on  my  friends 
in  London.  I  hoped  to  have  reached  St.  Albans  to- 
night, and  Sir  Clement  Cottrel  Dormer's^  (who  has  kindly 
invited  me  to  reside  with  him)  on  Monday  at  noon; 
but  am  prevented,  partly  by  the  badness  of  the  weather, 
and  partly  by  the  spleen  of  an  humourist — a  valetudi- 
narian fellow-traveller.  Tou,  madam,  are  not  a  stranger 
to  my  present  unhappy  situation,  and  that  it  pleased  God 
to  desolate  my  dwelling ;  I  flatter  myself  that  I  have  still 
a  heart  turned  to  social  delights,  and  not  estranged  either 
from  the  tenderness  of  true  affection  or  the  refinement 
of  friendship.  I  feel  a  sad  void  in  my  breast,  and  am 
reduced  to  the  necessity  of  wishing  to  fill  it.  I  have  lost 
a  friend  that  was  as  my  own  soul,  and  nothing  is  more 
natural  than  to  desire  to  supply  that  loss  by  the  person  in 
the  world  that  friend  most  esteemed  and  honoured ;  and 
as  I  have  been  long  persuaded  that  perfect  friendship  is 
nowhere  to  be  found  but  in  marriage,  I  wish  to  perfect 

^  Sir  Clement  Cottrell  Dormer,  was  mentioned  in  former  letters  as  Sir 
Clement  Cottrell,  and  was  Master  of  the  Ceremonies  to  Qeorge  II. — ^his  an- 
cestors having  been  Masters  of  the  Ceremonies  from  the  time  of  Charles  I. 
Sir  Clement  died  at  Ronsham,  October  13,  1768. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  211 

mine  in  that  state.  I  know  it  is  late  in  life  to  think  of 
engaging  anew  in  that  state,  in  the  beginning  of  my  591;|i 
year.  I  am  old,  and  I  appear  older  than  I  am ;  but 
thank  God  I  am  stiU  in  health,  tho'  not  bettered  by 
years,  and  however  the  vigour  of  life  may  be  over,  and 
with  that  the  vigour  of  vanity,  and  the  flutter  of  passion, 
I  find  myself  not  less  fitted  for  all  that  is  solid  happiness 
in  the  wedded  state — the  tenderness  of  affection,  and  the 
fetith  of  friendship. 

I  have  a  good  clear  income  for  my  life ;  a  trifle  to 
settle,  which  I  am  only  ashamed  to  offer ;  a  good  house 
(as  houses  go  ta  our  part  of  the  world),  moderately  fur- 
nished, a  good  many  books,  a  pleasant  garden  (better  I 
believe  than  when  you  saw  it),  etc.  Would  to  God  I 
might  have  leave  to  lay  them  all  at  your  feet. 

You  win,  I  hope,  pardon  me  the  presumption  of  this 
wish,  when  I  assure  you  it  is  noway  blemished  by  the 
vanity  of  thinking  them  worthy  of  your  acceptance,  but 
as  you  have  seen  the  vanities  of  the  world  to  satiety,  I 
allowed  myself  to  indulge  a  hope  that  a  retirement  at  this 
time  of  life,  with  a  man  whose  turn  of  mind  is  not  foreign 
from  your  own  (and  for  that  only  reason  not  wholly  im- 
worthy  of  you) — a  man  who  knows  your  worth,  and 
honours  you  as  much  as  he  is  capable  of  honouring  any 
thing  that  is  mortal,  might  not  be  altogether  abhorrent 
from  the  views  of  your  humble  and  unearthly  wisdom. 
This  I  am  sure  of,  that  if  you  reject  my  humble  and  un- 
worthy offering,  your  humility  wiU  not  let  you  do  it  with 
disdain ;  and  if  you  condescend  to  accept  it,  the  good- 
ness of  your  nature,  and  generosity  of  your  heart,  will 
prompt  you  to  do  it  in  a  way  most  becoming  your  own 
dignity,  and  the  security  of  my  eternal  esteem,  and  inex- 

p2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


212  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

pressible  gratitude :  at  all  events,  let  me  not  be  impaired 
in  the  honour  of  your  friendship,  since  it  is  impossible  I 
can  cease  to  be,  with  the  truest  veneration  and  esteem, 
madam. 

Your  most  humble  and  most  obedient   servant, 

Pat.  Delant. 

P.  S.  I  hope  to  be  in  London  on  Monday  night,  and 
to  have  the  happiness  of  finding  you  either  in  Clarges 
Street  or  Northend  on  Tuesday  morning.  I  beseech 
God  to  guide  and  guard  you. 

Ten  days  after  the  above  letter,  Dr.T)elapy  wrote  again,  and 
from  the  tenor  of  his  expressions  it  was  evident  that  Mrs.  Pendarves 
had  declined  giving  her  reply  till  her  mother,  her  brother  and  her 
sister,  had  been  addressed ;  but  yet  it  may  fairly  be  inferred  that 
Mrs.  Pendarves  had  intimated  that  her  acceptation  might  follow 
their  approval. 


Ih,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Pendarves, 

May  3rd. 

Permit  me,  madam,  to  beg  to  know  my  fate  as  far  as  it 
depends  upon  your  friends  in  Gloucester :  if  it  be  favour- 
able, be  so  good  as  to  signify  it  to  me,  by  allowing  me 
the  honour  to  call  them  my  friends ;  I  must  be  theirs,  at 
all  events ;  since  I  cannot  cease  to  be  with  perfect  affec- 
tion and  esteem,  yours. 

May  every  day  of  your  life  be  as  happy  as  I  hope  to 
find  this  and  the  next :  and  may  the  felicity  of  making 
mine  such  be  only  yours.  Pardon  the  presumption  of 
this  well  intended  wish,  in,  madam, 

Tour  most  obedient  and  not  wholly  unselfish  servant, 

Pat.  Delany. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  213 

Three  days  after  this  letter,  Dr.  Delany  wrote  again  in  a  manner 
which  clearly  shows  that  Mrs.  Granville's  approval  had  not  been 
received,  and  that  Mr.  Granville  was  decidedly  hostile,  though  some- 
what mollified  by  a  visit  to  Sir  John  Stanley.  It  also  appears  that 
Mrs.  Pendarves  had  made  her  brother's,  as  well  as  her  mother's 
consent  a  condition,  and  that  Dr.  Delany  despaired  of  obtaining 
that  of  Mr.  Granville,  who  was  well  known  to  have  been  violently 
opposed  to  his  sister's  marrying  a  man  who  had  no  claim  of  ancestry 
to  bring  forward,  or  anything  to  offer  in  excuse  for  what  Mr. 
Granville  doubtless  considered  unparalleled  presumption. 


Dr,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 

May  6th. 

Madam, 

Though  I  can  scarcely  hold  a  pen  in  my  hand,  I 
cannot  help  attempting  to  inform  you  that  I  apprehend, 
from  a  moment's  conversation  with  your  brother  this  morn- 
ing in  the  street  (for  he  was  gone  out  before  I  could  reach 
his  house),  that  his  visit  at  Northend  has  made  some 
change  in  his  sentiments  in  relation  to  me.  I  beseech  you, 
madam,  leave  me  not  to  the  caprice  of  any  of  your  friends ; 
and  much  less  to  the  mercy  of  every  humour  of  every 
friend.  Where  you  owe  duty,  pay  it ;  and  let  me  rise  or 
fall  by  the  determination  of  duty ;  but  let  not  the  decision 
depend  upon  the  fickle,  the  uncertain,  and  the  selfish.  Grod 
has  blessed  you  with  noble  sentiments,  a  good  understand- 
ing and  a  generous  heart ;  are  not  these,  under  God,  your 
best  governors?  I  might  venture  to  pronounce  that 
even  a  parent  has  no  right  to  control  you,  at  tlus  time*  of 
life,  and  under  your  circumstances,  in  opposition  to  these  ; 
and  a  brother  has  no  shadow  of  right. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


214  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Bless  me  with  one  minute's  conversation  before  you 
go,  and  fix  my  fate — thus  far,  indeed,  it  is  akeady  fixed, 
that  I  am,  and  must,  at  aU  events,  be  unalterably  yours. 


Dr,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 

Inclosed  is  a  letter  to  your  mother ;  if  you  think  it  such 
a  one  as  should  be  sent,  be  so  good  as  to  return  it  by  the 
bearer  with  a  direction.  If  you  wish  anything  added  or 
altered  let  me  know  it  without  reserve,  in  full  assurance, 
that  my  greatest  happiness  is  to  do  everything  you  wish. 
Make  me  happy  in  one  moment's  conversation  when  it 
may  be  least  inconvenient  to  you. 

From  the  above  lines  it  appears  that  a  formal  proposal  was  in- 
closed to  Mrs.  Granville,  requesting  her  consent. 


Dr,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Pendarves, 

May  12,  6  in  the  evening. 

You  are  in  town,  at  least  I  flatter  myself  that  you  are, 
and  well  and  happy.  I  must  not  see  you  !  however  be 
well  and  happy.  You  have  determined  on  my  fate,  but  I 
must  not  know  it ;  perhaps  I  shall  know  it  too  soon.  1  can 
endure  even  suspense  for  you  though  I  would  not  endure 
it  for  anything  this  earth  calls  honour :  the  hope  of  the 
alliance  is  of  a  higher  species.  They  say  you  sleep 
better,  that  is  the  condition  of  a  heart  at  ease, — would  to 
God  mine  were  so!  it  must  be  soon  at  all  events.  I 
awoke  early  last  Sunday  morning  with  these  two  lines 
in  my  mouth  : — 

Go  half  my  heart,  and  half  my  soul 
Haste  home  again,  and  make  me  whole. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


,0F  MRS.  DEL  ANY.  215 

I  really  caamot  say  whence  tliey  came  from, — I  wish 
anybody  could  tell  me  :  but  I  wish  with  much  more  impa- 
tience to  know  whether  that  return  is  to  repair  or  to 
rend  me  to  pieces.  I  beseech  God  it  may  have  that 
effect,  whatever  it  be,  in  which  your  temporal  and  eternal 
happiness  are  most  interested. 

I  have  the  honour  of  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Granville :  it  is 
not  unfriendly ;  it  leaves  my  happiness  where  I  wish  it 
may  rest  for  ever  on  this  side  heaven — at  your  feet. 
Might  I  hope  to  have  one  ray  of  hope  conveyed  to  me 
in  half  a  line  by  the  bearer. 

Nineteen  days  had  now  elapsed  since  Dr.  Delany's  letter  of 
proposal,  written  at  Dunstable ;  and  making  allowance  for  all  the 
preliminary  steps  which  were  considered  proper,  as  well  as  the 
slow  pace  of  the  post  at  that  period,  and  the  delay  necessary  for 
consideration  after  a  letter  on  such  a  subject  was  received,  with 
the  time  required  to  compose  and  write  an  answer,  it  may  be  con- 
sidered that  Dr.  Delany's  suit  had  speeded  well  to  have  arrived  at 
the  stage  of  a  "  not  unfriendly "  letter  from  Mrs.  Granville,  and 
also  that  he  entertained  hopes  of  a  favourable  decision  irrespective 
of  Mr.  Granville's  consent. 


The  following  letter  is  the  first  intimation  that  there  was  a 
complete  understanding  between  Mrs.  Pendarves  and  Dr.  Delany, 
and  that  she  advised  him  how  to  act  to  obtain  the  concurrence, 
and  thereby  preserve  the  harmony  of  her  family.  The  "  friend  " 
alluded  it  might  be  supposed,  was  Lord  Carteret,  were  it  not  that 
there  is  presumptive  evidence,  that  however  partial  Lord  Carteret 
was  to  Dr.  Delany  previously,  he  never  desired  that  he  should 
marry  a  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


21G       '  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Dr,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Pendarves. 

May  14th,  9  at  nigbt. 

I  have  sent  the  message  agreed  on  to  Lady  G/  by  niy 
friend,  who  undertook  it  with  a  zeal  and  a  frankness  that 
doubled  his  merit.  He  deUghted  me  beyond  measure  by 
letting  me  see  he  honoured  you  highly — that  is  almost  half 
as  much  as  I  do ;  how  much  that  is,  I  either  cannot  or  dare 
not  say.  It  is  too  much  presumption  to  ask,  are  you 
alone  ?  it  is  much  more  so,  to  hope  to  be  happy  with  you 
one  moment  ?     Adieu. 

The  next  link  which  the  Editor  possesses  of  this  correspondence, 
is  the  following  letter  from  Mrs.  Dewes  to  Dr.  Delany,  which  de- 
monstrates in  a  remarkable  manner  her  single-hearted  and  disin- 
terested disposition,  and  also  her  entire  confidence  in  her  sister's 
judgment.  The  date,  3rd  of  June,  indicates  that  Dr.  Delany*s 
suspense  and  anxiety  had  then  happily  terminated. 


Mrs,  Dewes  to  Dr,  Delany, 

Bradley,  3d  June,  1743. 

Sir, 

Though  it  is  very  natural  to  like  those  persons  who 
are  valued  and  distinguished  by  a  favourite  friend,  yet  I 
must  assure  you  that  my  respect  and  admiration  you 
have  had,  long  before  I  could  imagine  there  would  be 
any  other  attachment  than  what  is  due  to  uncommon 
merit ;  but  I  now  with  great  willingness  and  pleasure  will 
add  sisterly  aflTection  and  esteem,  which  I  dare  say  must 
increase  upon  acquaintance,  and  as  you  make  her  happy 
who  is  endeared  to  me  by  the  strongest  ties  of  love  and 

^  CJountess  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  217 

obligation.  If  you  find  she  has  not  entirely  misplaced 
her  friendship  and  will  add  yours  to  it,  I  shall  be  vastly 
glad,  and  if  the  most  ardent  prayers  and  wishes  for 
your  mutual  happiness  is  any  degree  of  merit,  then  I 
own  I  have  a  great  deal,  and  fear  I  can  claim  no  other. 

The  just  sense  you  have  of  my  sister's  extreme  worth 
gives  me  infinite  delight,  I  never  thought  she  could 
meet  with  anybody  sensible  enough  of  those  delicacies  in 
her  disposition  that  complete  the  most  amiable  part  of 
a  woman's  character,  but  now  /  believe  she  has ;  which 
will  greatly  alleviate  what  I  shall  suffer  by  her  absence. 
Her  absence  is  a  subject  I  will  not  mention,  for  as  I  now 
sincerely  desire  to  promote  your  happiness,  I  trust  in 
your  generosity  to  deprive  me  of  as  little  of  mine  as  is 
in  your  power  to  avoid ;  and  shall  put  Mrs.  Pendarves 
m  mind  how  much  joy  and  satisfaction  she  retards  by 
staying  in  London  longer  than  is  absolutely  necessary. 

I  hope  Mr.  Dewes  has  had  the  pleasure  of  being 
introduced  to  you ;  his  integrity  and  good  principles  are 
worthy  your  notice  and  esteem.  I  will  make  no  excuse 
for  this  long  letter,  because  where  the  heart  is  concerned 
it  is  impossible  to  say  little.  I  must  return  my  thanks 
for  the  pleasure  of  your  letter,  and  am, 

Dear  Sir,  your  most  faithful  humble  servant, 

Anne  Dewes- 

My  mother's  compliments  and  good  wishes  attend 
you.  She  is  sorry  her  letter  had  not  the  designed  effect, 
for  she  is  impatient  (as  weU  as  myself)  to  see  you  at  our 
cottage. 

Maiy  Granville,  Mrs.  Pendarves,  married  Dr.  Delany  (according 
to  the  Gentleman's  Magazine)  on  the  31st  May,  1743,  two  days 
before  the  date  of  this  letter,  and  the  Editor  does  not  possess  any 


Digitized  by 


Google 


218  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

more  authentic  reqord,  but  from  various  passages  in  subsequent 
letters  she  has  reason  to  believe  that  the  marriage  really  took  place 
on  the  9th  of  June. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  in  either  case  it  was  very  private,  and  in 
all  probability  she  would  only  have  been  attended  by  Mr.  Dewes, 
(who  was  evidently  in  London),  and  one  female  relation.  The 
above  letter  of  Mrs.  Dewes  still  mentions  her  as  "  Mrs.  PendarveSy*' 
and  if  the  marriage  had  taken  place  when  that  letter  was  written, 
it  would  prove  that  even  her  sister  did  not  know  for  what  day  it 
was  fixed,  which  is  highly  improbable.  It  was  consistent  with  the 
character  of  Mary  Granville,  after  having  obtained  her  mother's 
consent,  her  sister's  approval,  and  Sir  John  Stanley's  acquiescence, 
and  tried  in  every  possible  way  to  reconcile  her  brother  to  her 
marriage,  to  have  no  further  delay,  and  at  the  same  time  it  would 
have  been  unworthy  of  her  sincerity  to  have  had  the  pretence  of 
any  appearance  of  rejoicing.  She  well  knew  that  Dr.  Delany  must 
ultimately  stand  or  fall  upon  his  own  merits  and  qualificationa, 
and  having  made  up  her  mind  as  to  their  value,  and  obtained  the 
sanction  of  those  who  had  the  nearest  claims  upon  her,  she  had 
nothing  more  to  wait  for.  The  only  person  in  her  own  family  who 
was  intimately/  acquainted  with  Dr.  Delany  was  Lord  Carteret, 
whose  dislike  to  the  alliance  materially  cooled  his  previous  friend- 
ship, and  whose  feelings  were  certain  to  be  shared  by  his  mother, 
the  old  Countess  Granville.  Lord  Carteret's  opinions  would  na- 
turally influence  all  the  rest  of  the  Granville  family,  had  not 
appearances  warranted  his  objections;  as  it  certainly  was  a  rare 
exception  to  the  general  order  of  things,  that  any  person  who  had 
been  bom  in  so  different  a  sphere  from  that  which  Mary  Granville 
and  her  ancestors  had  occupied  for  centuries,  should  have  been 
so  endowed  as  to  be  a  suitable  companion  for  one  who  stood  pre- 
eminent amongst  her  own  contemporaries  for  taste,  tact,  talent, 
and  refinement  of  manners ;  and  it  would  have  been  in  vain  for  her 
to  attempt  by  reasoning  to  convince  her  family  and  friends  that  the 
Chancellor  of  St.  Patrick's,  however  great  his  learning,  or  however 
virtuous  his  life  and  character,  could  possess  those  requisites  which 
were  necessary  to  secure  her  daily  and  hourly  comfort  and  happi- 
ness setting  aside  all  feelings  of  family  pride. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


■../-/•  /vvrt/:'. 


taj^.l?i¥    o:.l;\,^M^¥liL^[r 


-^  /  / 


Digitized  by 


Googl^^"""^ 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  219 


CHAPTER  VII. 

From  November,  1743  to  1746. 

The  following  letter  is  tlie  first  in  the  Editor's  possession  written 
after  Mary  Granville's  second  marriage.  The  interval  between 
June  and  November  had  been  evidently  spent  in  visits  to  her 
mother  and  sister,  and  some  other  friends,  and  she  and  Dr.  Delany 
were  now  apparently  on  their  road  from  Gloucester  to  London. 

Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Clarges  Street,  lOth  Nov.,  1743. 

It  was  a  most  delightful  welcome  to  my  own  house  to 
hear  so  soon  from  my  dear  friends  at  Q-loucester.  I  thank 
God  we  have  had  as  good  and  pleasant  a  journey  as  we 
could  possibly  have  wished  for,  or  our  friends  for  us. 

Mr,  Dewes  has  informed  you  I  suppose  of  his  safe 
arrival  in  town  and  adventures  on  the  road.  He  left 
Burford  about  half-an-hour  before  us.  After  a  good  break- 
fiist  of  caudle  we  set  forward  for  Combury,  and  sent  a 
messenger  forward  to  ask  leave  to  go  through  the  park,  and 
to  say  if  my  Lord  C.  was  alone  we  would  breakfast  with 
him :  he  sent  back  an  invitation  to  us  to  dine  as  well  as 
breakfast,  and  entertained  us  with  showing  us  his  house, 
pictures,  and  park,  which  indeed  are  all  as  well  worth 
seeing  as  anything  in  England,  especially  when  he  is  there 


Digitized  by 


Google 


220  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

to  do  the  honours.  The  house  has  no  regular  front ;  it 
is  unfinished  but  newly  fitted  up  with  great  elegance, 
and  contains  a  number  of  very  fine  rooms ;  the  lower 
apartment  is  just  ftirnished,  and  is  the  prettiest  thing  I 
ever  saw,  somewhat  in  the  taste  of  Mrs.  Homer's.  His 
park  lies  finely  to  the  house  and  is  most  charming,  and 
kept  as  nice  as  a  garden,  and  a  gravel  path  quite  round 
it,  that  you  may  walk  in  any  weather.  The  ground  has 
most  advantageously,  and  is  planted  with  great  skill  and 
great  variety  of  fine  trees,  some  thick  wood,  some  clumps, 
in  short  nature  and  art  have  done  their  best  to  make  it 
beautiful.  I  delivered  Mrs.  Duncomb's  message  to  him  ; 
he  pleaded  guilty,  but  asked  so  kindly  after  her,  that  I 
believe  she  will  take  him  again  into  favour.  He  does  live 
in  Berkeley  Square,  and  they  were  ignorant  who  reported 
that  he  had  disposed  of  his  house  there. 

We  were  much  pressed  to  dine  at  Cornbury,  but  that 
would  have  led  us  too  far  into  the  night  before  we  could 
have  reached  Rouseham.  I  had  almost  forgot  to  speak 
particularly  of  the  pictures :  they  are  excessively  fine,  most 
of  them  Vandykes,  whole  lengths,  and  a  vast  number  of 
them.  Either  the  painter  or  the  persons  painted  had  more 
gracefulness  than  the  modem  nobility,  for  they  all  look 
like  valets-de-chainbre  compared  to  their  ancestors.  As 
Lord  Cornbury  led  me  to  the  coach,  he  said  he  was  *' obliged 
to  me  that  he  now  belonged  to  Dr.  Delany,  and  that  he 
had  a  right  to  claim  his  friendship  and  acquaintance." 

From  hence  we  went  to  Rouseham,  and  got  there 
by  two  o'clock,  just  as  the  family  (ten  in  number)  were 
sitting  down  to  dinner.  We  were  received  with  great 
friendship,  and  it  seems  to  be  the  family  of  love.  Sir 
Clement  Cotterel  is  very  worthy  of  the  fine  place  he  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  221 

possessed  of,  for  he  not  only  enjoys  it  himself,  but  makes 
it  very  agreeable  to  his  family  and  friends.  The  house 
is  very  old,  and  the  rooms  low,  but  finished  and  fur- 
nished in  the  nicest  manner;  a  new  library  was  added 
to  it  not  many  years  ago,  a  most  magnificent  room, 
and  finished  vnth  the  highest  expense.  There  are  two 
very  large  bow  windows  in  it,  and  nearly  five  thousand 
volumes,  and  prints  that  cost  between  two  and  three 
thousand  pounds, — I  mean  the  prints  only.  The  house 
abounds  with  valuable  antiques  of  all  kinds  such  as 
bustos,  statues,  bronzes,  basso  relievos  that  are  enough 
to  make  one  wild,  besides  many  very  fine  pictures 
by  several  of  the  great  masters;  so  much  for  within 
doors.  Then  the  garden  is  past  my  skill  to  describe ;  all 
I  can  say  of  it  is  that  I  never  saw  a  garden  which 
pleased  me  so  well,  but  the  weather  was  so  bad  all  the 
time  I  was  there  that  I  could  not  see  half  its  beauty. 

We  left  Eouseham  on  Monday  morning  at  seven, 
dined  at  Stoken  Church,  and  lay  at  Beconsfield,  and 
found  the  roads  very  good ;  I  sent  to  Peg  Bellenden  as 
soon  as  we  got  to  our  inn,  but  she  was  abroad.  The 
next  morning  before  we  set  out  I  made  her  a  visit  of 
five  minutes,  for  she  would  never  have  forgiven  me  if 
I  had  passed  her  by  in  silence :  she  uttered  many  a 
droll  thing,  and  is  the  very  individual  Peg  you  knew  her 
in  Somerset  House.  We  got  to  Bulstrode  by  nine 
o'clock,  the  Duchess  and  Don.  were  a-bed,  but  I  soon 
roused  them  :  we  were  very  glad  to  meet,  and  all  talked 
atU  of  breathy  asking  on  both  sides  an  hundred  questions, 
and  not  giving  leisure  for  the  answering  one.  I  never  saw 
Don.  better  than  she  is  now ;  the  Duchess  has  lost  her 
cough,  but  is  by  no  means  well ;  Lady  Peterborough  is 


Digitized  by 


Google 


222  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

there,  and  Lady  O's  time  of  making  a  visit  there  not  yet 
fixed.  We  have  promised  to  return  as  soon  as  possible ; 
with  great  difficulty  we  left  them  before  dinner,  and  got 
very  well  to  Clarges  Street,  as  my  letter  to  my  mother  I 
hope  informed  you  in  time. 

That  night  Mrs.  Percival  came  to  invite  us  to  dine 
with  her  yesterday,  and  to  go  in  the  morning  to  White- 
hall Chapel  to  hear  Mr.  Handel's  new  Te  Deum  rehearsed, 
and  an  anthem.^  It  is  excessively  fine,  I  was  all  rapture  and 
so  was  your  friend  D.D.  as  you  may  imagine ;  everybody 
says  it  is  the  finest  of  his  compositions ;  I  am  not  well 
enough  acquainted  with  it  to  pronounce  that  of  it,  but  it  is 
heavenly.  I  dined  at  the  Percivals,  many  enquiries  after 
you  from  everybody.  D.D.  and  I  made  a  visit  of  about  two 
hours  to  Sir  Eobert  and  Lady  Sun. ;  they  are  aU  com- 
plaining there. 

Oh  I  forgot  to  tell  you  I  made  a  visit  to  the  Old 
Countess,  but  she  looked  so  cross  and  so  cold,  that  I  staid  but 
one  quarter  of  an  hour,  and  she  received  D.D.  in  the  same 
way ;  great  discontents  about  public  affairs.  We  are  just 
going  to  Northend — I  will  finish  when  I  return ;  Lady  S, 
Cow.  is  better,  she  comes  to  me  to-morrow,  this  afternoon 
Lady  North  and  the  Maid  of  Honour.  Two  o'  the  clock. 
Sir  John  Stanley  looks  and  is  much  better  than  when  I 
left  him,  and  full  of  Ward's  praises ;  I  am  glad  he  has 
so  much  reason  to  speak  well  of  him.  Since  our  being 
abroad  the  Countess  has  honoured  us  with  a  visit,  and  left 
word  she  *'  hoped  to  see  us  soon. ;"  I  hope  she  will  be  in 
better  humour  when  we  go  next.    I  Hke  my  new  maid  very 

'  The  famous  Te  Deum  and  Anthem  for  the  victory  of  Dettiugcn,  were 
solemnly  sung  in  the  presence  of  the  King,  in  the  Eoyal  Chapel  of  St.  JamesX 
on  the  27th  of  November,  1743,  after  having  been  rehearsed  on  the  18th  and 
25th,  at  Whitehall  Chapel,  during  the  forenoon. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  223 

well,  she  has  been  come  a  week,  she  has  a  lively  look  and 
promises  so  far  very  well.  Poor  Mary  had  two  fever  fits 
on  the  road,  she  has  a  medicine  given  her  of  bark  and 
snakeroot  that  I  beUeve  has  stopped  it.  Pray  what  is  your 
receipt  of  bark  and  snakeroot  ?  Let  me  know  exactly  how 
you  do,  and  if  you  eat  and  sleep  well,  and  what  my  bro- 
ther says  more  about  Calwich,  and  what  you  intend  to 
do  ?  I  think  I  must  part  with  Mary  soon  ;  I  cannot  carry 
her  and  Betty  Wodall  also  to  Bulstrode. 

The  Lord  Combury  here  mentioned  was  Henry,  son  of  Henry 
Hyde,  4th  Earl  of  Clarendon,  and  2nd  Earl  of  Eocbester.  He  died 
a  few  montbs  before  bis  father,  after  whose  death  Combury  became 
the  property  of  Catherine,  Duchess  of  Queensbury ,  sister  of  Lord 
Combuiy.  "  The  Combury  Collection,  formed  by  the  great  Lord 
Chancellor  Clarendon,  is  (1856)  partly  at  The  Grove,  in  Hert- 
fordshire, the  seat  of  the  present  Lord  Clarendon,  and  partly  at 
Bothwell  Castle,  in  Lanarkshire,  the  seat  of  Lord  Douglas." 

JRowsham  (in  Oxfordshire)  is  in  the  Elizabethan  style.  Wal- 
pole  writes,  in  July,  1760  : — "  The  greatest  pleasure  we  had,  was 
in  seeing  Sir  Charles  Cottrell's,  at  Rousham,  it  reinstated  Kent 
with  me,  he  has  nowhere  shown  so  much  taste.  The  house  is  old, 
and  was  bad ;  he  has  improved  it — stuck  as  close  as  he  could 
to  Gothic,  made  a  delightful  library,  and  the  whole  is  comfortable. 
The  garden  is  Daphne  in  little,  the  sweetest  little  groves,  streams, 
glades,  porticoes,  cascades,  and  river,  imaginable  ;  all  the  scenes  are 
are  perfectly  classic.  Well,  if  I  had  such  a  house,  such  a  library, 
90  pretty  a  place,  and  so  pretty  a  wife,  I  think  I  should  let  King 
George  send  to  Herenhausen  for  a  Master  of  the  Ceremonies."^ 


*  The  Cottrells  were  hereditary  Masters  of  the  Ceremonies  from  the  reign  of 
Charles  I. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


224  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs.  Montagu  writes  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland  at  this  period  : 

"  Pray  where  is  Pen  ?  Will  she  produce  a  sprig  of 
bays?  It  must  be  a  little  Master  Apollo,  or  a  Miss 
Minerva,  from  parents  of  such  art  and  science." 


Mr».  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detuea,  at  Mrs,  Qranville%  at  Gloucester, 

Clarges  Street,  18  Nov.  1743. 

This  was  the  day  appointed  for  our  going  to  Bulstrode, 
but  Lady  0.  did  not  go  till  yesterday  and  stays  a  week, 
and  we  choose  to  defer  our  visit  till  that  is  ahnost  over. 
To-morrow  D.D.  preaches  for  the  Bishop  of  0.  at  St. 
James's.  Last  Sunday  we  were  both  there.  I  believe  it 
is  the  church  I  shall  go  most  constantly  to, — there  is 
always  good  preaching.  I  am  very  glad  my  mother  and 
you  are  come  to  a  resolution  about  going  to  Calwich.  I 
pray  God  send  you  a  prosperous  journey,  and  all  joy  and 
satisfaction  at  the  end  of  it.  But  you  say  no  more  of  your 
little  Court  than  one  of  your  portmantoes.  If  he  could  tell 
his  mind,  and  knew  of  the  fine  bowling  green  he  will  have 
to  roll  upon,  he  would  clap  his  hands,  and  crow  for 
joy.  This  will  be  the  last  letter  I  shall  direct  to  you  at 
Gloucester  \  my  next  shall  salute  you  at  Calwich,  imless 
you  change  your  mind.  If  the  weather  continues  as  it  is 
now,  it  will  be  pleasant  travelling,  but  though  I  talk  so 
quietly  of  your  going  to  Calwich,  don't  think  I  give 
up  your  coming  to  town,  for  after  three  months  quiet 
repose  a  month  of  hurry  may  not  be  disagreeable ;  but 
let  that  rest  at  present. 

My  new  maid  promises  very  well,  and  she  has  a 
sprightUness  without  pertness  that  pleases  me  well,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  225 

wears  no  hoop — so  mncli  for  domestics.  Foreign  affairs 
stand  thus : — ^We  had  an  invitation  to  the  Troglodit^- 
house  to  dinner,  where  we  were  entertained  with  many 
speeches,  much  rattUng,  and  no  food.  I  had  promises, 
nods,  shakes  of  the  hand,  and  two  salutes  as  usual.  I  told 
him  I  had  now  changed  my  suit,  and  that  from  the  merit 
of  D.D.  and  his  friendship  to  him,  I  thought  I  could  not 
fail  of  what  I  wished.  He  smiled  and  promised,  but  said 
nothing  to  the  purpose ;  but  the  vacant  Farm  which  the 
Lord  of  the  Manor  kept  to  dispose  of  himself,  I  am  posi- 
tively assured  will  not  be  accepted  by  the  person  designed 
for  it.  This  I  have  good  authority  for  saying,  and  have 
sent  the  Bailiff  word  of  it,  and  if  my  intelligence  is  true 
without  some  roguery  in  the  Bailiff  I  think  we  cannot 
&il  of  being  soon  put  into  possession ;  but  my  lot  is 
already  fallen  in  a  fair  ground,  and  if  Providence  sees  fit 
to  enlarge  our  dominion  I  hope  to  be  truly  thankful,  and 
to  make  a  proper  use  of  all  advantages  that  may  befall 
me ;  but  my  debt  is  large  already ^  and  I  most  heartily  pray 
for  grace  to  discharge  it  as  I  ought  to  do. 

Yesterday  severe  Cottrells  dined  with  us,  but  they  are 
such  good-humoured  people  that  ceremony  is  thrown 
aside,  and  we  passed  the  day  like  good  country  neighbours. 
I  believe  Mr.  Dewes  wiU  think  us  lost,  for  we  have  named 
three  days  running  for  going  out  of  town ;  he  is  very  well 
and  I  shall  challenge  a  day  from  him  before  we  go.  We 
have  all  escaped  cold  and  are  perfectly  well.  Poor  Lady 
Sunderland  has  been  under  great  trouble  for  Master 
Sutton,  who  has  lain  in  a  raging  fever  for  several  days 
past;  he  is  now  better,  and  they  have  hopes  of  his 
recovery. 

Lady  Sarah  Cowper  is  still  compliments,  but  better ;  if 

VOL.  II.  Q 


Digitized  by 


Google 


226  LIFE  AND  00RRK8P0NDENCE 

you  have  not  heaxd  from  her  it  is  because  she  has  not  been 
well  enough  to  write.  We  talk  of  you,  when  we  meet,  till 
I  am  forced  to  change  the  subject.  I  really  grieve  for 
the  loss  Mrs.  Viney  will  have  this  winter  and  her  daugh- 
ters,— I  hope  I  shall  hear  from  them  as  soon  as  you  have 
left  Gloucester ;  I  desire  the  same  from  Princess,  to  whom 
I  will  write  soon.  I  have  a  thousand  odious  fiddle  faddle 
things  to  do  this  morning,  but  will  finish  this  sheet  first. 
I  am  not  sorry  the  Foleys  were  so  resolute  in  not  coming 
to  yon,  for  at  this  time  it  would  have  been  tronble- 
some  to  mama.  Mr.  Wise  has  got  the  *  candlesticks 
and  salt-seller,  and  will  obey  all  commands.  Why  did  you 
not  keep  the  warm  purple-coat  to  wrap  yourselves  up  in 
on  the  road  ?  you  might  as  weU  have  sent  it  from  C.  as 
from  G.  Pray  let  Mrs.  Brinsden  know  if  you  see  her  (or 
her  sister  Skin.)  that  her  parcel  was  safely  delivered  to 
Mrs.  Hopkins ;  the  Montagus  of  Hanover-Square  come 
to  town  to  night.  Yonr  dear  little  stray  letter  came  to 
town,  introduced  by  the  Master  of  the  Ceremonies. 

In  the  midst  of  all  our  hurries  here,  D.D.  has  found 
time  to  settle  his  sermonizing  affairs,^  and  I  believe  they 
will  all  now  be  finished  before  he  goes  to  Bulstrode ; 
they  have  not  yet  brought  forth  the  dedication.  Poor 
Lady  Carteret's  body^  was  brought  over  in  the  ship 
with  my  Lord,  who  has  been  dangerously  ill,  but  now  he 
looks  well  and  in  good  spirits,  though  they  appear  to  me 
put  on ;  Lady  Dysart  is  not  yet  come. 

If  my  brother  has  no  use  for  his  honse,  why  should  you 

'  "  Twenty  Sermons  upon  Social  Duties  and  their  Opposite  Vices,"  by  the 
Rev.  Dr.  Dekny.  This  volume  is  dedicated  to  the  Countess  of  Granville,  and 
the  dedication  is  dated  Feb.  23, 1743  (old  style). 

1  Lady  Carteret  died  at  Hanover  on  the  9th  of  Junq,  1743.  Her  body  was 
brought  over  in  November  following,  and  buried  in  Westminster  Abbey. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  227 

not  come  to  it  six  weeks  or  so  if  my  mama  likes  her 
quarters  at  Oalwich  and  her  landlord  resolves  to  stay  in 
the  country.  I  said  I  would  not  talk  about  this  any 
more,  but  it  lies  at  my  heart,  and  I  cannot  help  contriving 
every  possible  way  for  our  meeting ;  I  hope  I  shall  be 
able  to  make  my  visit  in  Staffordshire  the  beginning  of 
April  at  farthest,  but  that  depends  on  circumstances. 

I  was  at  the  opera  of  Alexander,  which  under  the  dis- 
guise it  suffered,  was  infinitely  better  than  any  Italian 
opera ;  but  it  vexed  me  to  hear  some  favourite  songs  man- 
gled. I  think  I  may  my  my  pendl  has  produced  a  good 
piece.  I  have  bought  a  very  fine  head  ru£9es  and  tucker 
of  Mrs.  Carter — new  fashioned  Brussels,  it  comes  to  near 
fifty  pounds :  is  not  that  extravagant  ?  'Tis  very  pretty 
as  well  as  fine. 


Mn.  Ddany  to  Mrs  Dewes,  at  Calunch,  near  Ashbourne^  Derhyahire. 

Bulstrode,  27  Nov.,  1743. 

•  Our  journey  was  so  short  that  I  have  nothing  to  tell 
you  about  it,  but  that  we  performed  it  in  three  hours 
and  arrived  here  at  twelve,  met  Lady  Oxford  on  the  road 
and  found  the  Duchess  better,  though  she  has  been  very 
much  out  of  order  with  hysterics,  which  has  been  the 
reason  of  her  not  writing.  Don.  hopes  you  have  had  her 
letter.  She  is  very  well,  and  so  is  the  Duke,  the  children. 
Mobs'  du  Poivre,  and  Mrs.  Elstob. 

To  describe  to  you  the  charms  of  Bulstrode  is  needless ; 
your  memory  will  do  it  justice,  and  figure  to  you  the 
pleasure  I  enjoy  here  with  my  agreeable  friends.  As 
soon  as  I  know  you  are  safe  at  Calwich,  I  shaU  taste  the 
joy  of  my  dear  friends  meeting  there  in  so  pleasant  a 

Q2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


228  LIFE  AND  COBRESPONDBNOE 

place.  It  would  have  been  happy  for  me  this  winter 
had  the  meeting  been  within  my  reach,  but  I  must  accept 
of  joys  as  they  are  dealt  to  me,  and  be  thankfal ;  it  is  too 
much  to  enjoy  every  blessing  in  our  own  way !  We 
walk  every  morning^-that  is  we  have  walked  yesterday 
and  to-day,  all  of  us ;  but  to-morrow  Mr.  Jackson  comes, 
and  the  Duchess  will  be  shut  up  in  her  turning-shop  all 
next  week.  The  Duke  and  Lord  George  go  to  town  next 
Wednesday  to  the  meeting  of  Parliament  and  return 
on  Saturday,  and  Mr.  Drummond,  your  old  acquaint- 
ance, with  them ;  you  know  he  is  very  agreeable  and 
entertaining,  and  after  hurrying  about  as  he  has  done 
after  the  camp,  he  will  be  glad  to  sit  down  quietly  in 
peace  within  these  walls.  You'll  fancy  you  are  not 
acquainted  with  this  Nfr.  Drummond,  but  indeed  you 
are;  it  is  not  the  banker  at  Charing  Cross,  nor  Mr. 
John  Drummond,  for  he  is  dead. 

The  Duke  of  St.  Albans  sent  to  the  Duke  of  Marl- 
borough for  his  interest  in  an  election,  the  message  was 
carried  to  the  Dowager  Duchess,  and  she  sent  back  word 
that  "  though  he  was  a  fool  he  should  not  be  everybody's 
fooiy  It  is  reported  that  the  Duke  is  disgusted  and  has 
laid  down.  I  can  tell  you  nothing  of  the  Troglodite 
House,  for  neither  D.D.  nor  I  saw  them  for  a  week  before 
we  came  out  of  town.  Master  Sutton  is  dead  at  last,  after 
a  very  terrible  fever  of  above  a  fortnight ;  I  was  with  poor 
Lady  Sunderland  at  the  time  he  died,  and  she  was  much 
shocked  with  it  and  had  suffered  a  great  deal  with  seeing 
him  endure  so  much,  and  is  out  of  order  in  her  own  health  ; 
but  I  hope  when  she  comes  to  consider  calmly,  and  that 
the  natural  affection  a  mother  must  feel  at  first  for  the  loss 
of  a  child  gives  way  to  reason,  she  will  be  reconciled  to  this 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  229 

stroke,  for  such  a  child  is  really  no  loss.  Sir  Bobert  is 
very  iU,  and  so  is  Betty  Tichboume,  wh6  has  nursed  her- 
self to  death ;  Miss  Sutton  bears  up  very  well,  and  is  a 
support  to  the  rest ;  I  must  write  to  her  to-night,  and  you 
know  hours  run  away  here  imperceptibly,  I  shall  hardly 
have  time  to  write  two  words. ' 

D.D.  preached  to-day  his  first  sermon  on  the  Duty 
of  Children  to  Parents,  with  approbation.  The  Duchess's 
'rapture  about  Matlock  continues,  and  she  says  the  people 
of  Derbyshire  and  Staffordshire  are  the  best-bred  people 
she  ever  met  with  anywhere,  and  she  is  quite  pleased 
with  Mrs.  Bo,     How  do  you  like  iAie  pearl  fountain  f 

P.S.  If  you  should  see  a  paragraph  in  the  newspaper 
about  the  Duke  of  Portland  don't  be  alarmed ;  he  has  had 
the  misfortune  to  break  his  arm,  but  thank  God  is  in  a 
good  way.  He  fell  from  his  horse  this  morning  as  he 
was  hunting.  You  may  believe  what  a  stroke  it  was  to 
all,  but  especially  the  poor  dear  Duchess ;  but  the  surgeons 
and  Dr.  Sandys,  who  is  here,  assure  us  so  positively  of  his 
being  very  safe,  that  I  hope  the  worst  is  over.  He  has  no 
fever  and  the  Duchess  is  pretty  well ;  don't  expect  to  hear 
next  post — the  post  after  you  shall  not  fail.  This  letter 
was  written  yesterday  but  the  accident  happened  this 
morning. 


Mt9,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at  CcUwich,  near  Ashbonmey  Derbyshire, 

Bulstrode,  30th  Nov.  1743. 

For  fear  my  dearest  sister  should  have  some  anxiety 
about  the  Duke  of  Portland  I  cannot  omit  writing  this  • 
post.     He  is  as  weU  as  can  be  expected;    he  has  no 


Digitized  by 


Google 


230  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

fever,  and  his  arm  is  very  well  set ;  but  he  must  be  con- 
fined to  one  posture  in  his  bed  some  time  longer,  which 
is  very  fatiguing  to  him,  though  his  patient  disposition 
makes  it  less  an  evil  than  it  would  be  to  most  people. 
The  Duchess  is  pretty  well, — I  apprehended  this  accident 
might  be  of  consequence  to  her.  She  is  very  low-spirited, 
and  that  you  will  not  wonder  at. 

Mr.  Dewes  must  have  had  an  account  of  your  journey 
from  your  own  hand.  I  came  here  last  Saturday,  and 
hope  to-morrow  to  have  the  joyful  account  of  your  safe 
landing  at  Calwich,  and  that  the  road  and  waters  between 
Uttoxeter  and  my  brother's  were  not  so  terrific  as  my 
mother  apprehended  they  would  be ;  a  thousand  thanks 
to  ray  dear  mama  for  her  kind  postcript,  it  was  indeed 
an  inexpressible  pleasure  to  me  to  hear  of  her  bearing 
traveUing  so  well ;  I  believe  it  will  do  her  a  vast  deal  of 
good,  and  am  sure  make  my  brother  happy.  My  most 
humble  duty  and  tender  afiection  to  both. 

I  did  not  send  the  work  at  last  to  Mr.  Dewes,  but  it 
shall  be  ready  for  you  when  I  go  to  town ;  you  may  have 
it  after  that  whenever  you  please.  Donnellan  is  here,  and 
I  hope  wiU  stay  as  long  as  I  do;  she  is  very  much 
mended  in  her  health — I  never  knew  her  to  have  so  few 
complaints  at  this  time  of  the  year.  You  must  not 
expect  to  hear  next  post. 

We  were  afraid  Lady  O.  would  have  come,  and  her 
formality  would  not  by  any  means  have  agreed  with  the 
liberty  of  this  constitution ;  but  she  sent  Mr.  Drummond 
here  yesterday  to  see  the  Duke, — and  he  returned  again 
at  noon  to  her. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  231 

Mrs,  Montagu}  to  Mrs.  Ddany, 

IstofDec,  1743(?). 

Dear  Madam, 

None  but  the  present  Mrs.  Delany  can  be  so  good 
as  the  late  Mrs.  Pendarves.  By  the  gentle  stroke  of 
humanity  and  the  elegant  ones  of  the  pen  I  know  the 
postscript  to  be  yours  ;  you  have  saved  me  from  a  great 
deal  of  affliction  though  you  cannot  yet  cure  me  of  anxiety 
for  the  Duke  and  Duchess.  I  had  by  accident  the  news 
delivered  to  me  before  the  letter.  You  will  imagine  how 
much  the  paragraph  alarmed  me;  but  you  say  the 
arm  is  well  set  and  there  is  no  fever — ^pray  heaven,  con- 
tinue these  favourable  symptoms  and  strengthen  the 
po  >r  Duchess,  whose  spirits  are  now,  I  fear,  too  easily 
disordered !  I  hope  the  Duke  wiU  not  have  a  trouble- 
some confinement,  but  that  he  will  soon  be  well  again. 

T  ought  to  make  some  apology  for  not  having  wrote 
to  you  on  your  marriage,  which,  though  custom  seems  to 
ordain,  I  think  when  a  person  chooses  sicch  a  companion 
as  you  have  done,  it  is  almost  an  injury  to  interrupt  their 
conversation ;  and  the  truth  is,  not  being  well  when  you 
left  London,  I  let  slip  so  much  time  before  I  was  aware 
of  it  that  I  was  afterwards  ashamed  to  write.     I  am  sure 


>  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  of  Matthew  Robinson,  of  West  Layton,  in 
Yorkshire,  married  Edward  Montagu,  of  Allerthorpe,  Yorkshire,  Esq.,  (of 
the  Sandwich  family,)  Aug.  5, 1742.  They  had  an  only  child,  which  died 
in  1745.  Mr.  Montagu  died  in  1775,  and  she  survived  until  Aug.  26,  1800. 
This  lady  was  the  author  of  the  Essay  on  Shakspeare,  and  the  chief  of  '*  the 
Hue  stockings "  of  her  day.  She  gave  an  annuad  feast  to  all  the  chimney- 
sweepers in  London,  and  had  a  room  in  Montagu  House,  Portman  Square, 
hung  with  tapestry  made  of  feathers. 

•*  The  birds  put  off  their  every  hue. 
To  dress  a  room  for  Montague  I 
The  peacock  sends  his  heavenly  dyes^ 
His  rainbows  and  his  starry  «ye»."— ^wpeb. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


232  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

my  good  wishes  and  regard,  (and  I  must  say  love,)  for  you 
have  had  no  intermission,  though  my  correspondence  has 
had  too  much.  I  hope  you  will  receive  me  into  grace 
again,  and  allow  me  to  write  to  you. 

The  fine  weather  we  have  had  lately  will  have  shewn 
Bulstrode  to  Dr.  Delany  to  better  advantage  than  places 
usually  appear  at  this  time  of  the  year,  and  I  observed 
in  Dr.  Delany  (the  few  hours  I  had  the  pleasure  of 
being  in  his  company)  a  greater  gout  for  the  country, 
and  a  better  taste  for  rural  heavty,  than  I  almost  ever 
met  with.  In  his  imagination  I  could  perceive  the  jt>o^ 
in  his  reflections  the  philosopher,  and  in  both  the  divine. 
It  is  a  delightful  thing  to  walk  abroad  in  a  sunshiny 
day  and  observe  the  Ufe  imparted  and  happiness  com- 
municated to  animal  life,  and  the  beauty  diffiised  through 
the  vegetable  world;  each  being  in  the  creation,  has 
its  portion  of  happiness ;  but  to  our  kind  is  reserved 
that  of  rejoicing  in  the  universal  welfare.  Dr.  Delany 
is  happy  in  a  companion  like  you,  who  take  a  philoso- 
pher's and  an  artist's  part  in  the  natural  world ;  to  a 
mind  that  comprefiends  you  have  a  hand  that  records  and 
represents  its  beauties.  Tour  drawing-room  boasts  of 
eternal  spring — ^nature  blooms  there  when  it  languishes 
in  gardens ;  and  not  only  prospects  and  landscapes  are 
represented  by  your  art,  but  even  human  passions 
and  fugitive  thoughts  are  expressed  and  fixed  by  the 
strokes  of  your  pencil.  I  cannot  help  wishing  I  was 
within  a  visit  of  Bulstrode,  though  I  have  one  great  ob- 
jection to  that  plac^,  which  is,  if  one  was  to  live  a  hun- 
dred years  there,  one  should  think  one  went  off  sud- 
denly. I  do  remember  there  was  a  dock  in  the  break- 
fast-room, but  I  am  sure  I  never  counted  an  hour  there. 
I  cannot  imagine  how  it  happens  so  many  such  people  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  233 

are  now  there  can  have  got  together ;  it  seems  to  me 
like  the  end  of  a  romance.  Sir  Philip  Sidney  would 
pomponsly  say,  "  when  the  excelling  excellency  of  so  many 
excellent  persons  was  collected  in  one  place  it  made  all  other 
places  seem  so  desolate  and  destitute  of  all  excellency  that 
desolation  itself  could  not  appear  more  desolate  than  aU  other 
society  compared  to  that  excellent  assembly''  I  wish  you  joy 
of  your  new  nephew,  and  I  hope  Mrs.  Dewes  has  well 
recovered  her  lying-in.  I  desire  my  compliments  to 
Dr.  Delany  and  many  kind  things  to  Mrs.  DonneUan, 
who  I  will  epistolize  very  soon. 
I  am,  dear  madam. 

Your  very  affectionate  and  ohliged 
Humhle  servant, 

E.  Montagu. 


Mn.  Delany  to  Mrs,  DeweSy  at  Calunch^  near  AMowme^  Derbyshire^ 

Bulatrode,  4  Dec.,  1743. 
I  am  infinitely  obliged  to  my  dear  sister  for  the 
great  pleasure  her  last  letter  gave  me ;  to  hear  that  all 
at  Calwich  are  well  and  happy  is  a  true  delight  to  me.  I 
know  you  would  like  my  brother's  improvements,  and 
D.D.  ^8  not  a  little  pleased  that  the  pearl  fountain^  is  in 
favour.  Has  my  brother  done  anything  to  the  Gothic 
building  yet,  or  does  he  reserve  that  for  spring  ?  What 
room  do  you  lie  in  ?  and  does  the  little  boy  come  on  with 
his  feet  ?  I  think  I  see  him  clapping  his  hands,  and  hear 
him  crowing  all  day  long  at  the  variety  of  living  creatures 
that  flutter  about  him.  The  Duke  of  Portland  is  as  well  as 


1  Mra.  Delany  was  called  '*  the  Pearly''  and  Mrs.  Dewes  <'  the  pearly  Dews." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


234  LIFE  AND  (JORRESPONDENCE 

anybody  ever  was  under  such  an  accident  as  he  has  had, 
but  he  is  threatened  a  little  with  the  gout,  which  will  be 
a  sad  thing  to  him  in  the  helpless  way  he  is  in  at  present. 
The  Duchess  sends  her  kind  love  to  you,  and  begs  you 
will  not  take  her  silence  ill,  but  she  has  been  in  such  a 
way  for  two  months  past,  such  hysterics  have  seized  her, 
that  it  has  made  her  incapable  of  doing  anjrthing.  Mrs. 
Donnellan  wrote  to  you,  but  I  find  you  have  not  had  her 
letter,  which  she  is  much  concerned  about,  and  begs  her 
affectionate  service  to  you ;  she  is  pretty  well,  the  Duchess 
is  better,  the  children  very  well,  and  Monsieur  du  Poivre 
the  tms  representative  of  care^ — for  since  the  Duke's  con- 
finement he  has  hardly  allowed  himself  time  for  his  meals ; 
his  eyebrows  are  arched  to  the  top  of  his  wig,  and  his  sighs 
are  enough  to  turn  a  mill.  Now  the  Duke  being  pretty 
well  again,  this  continued  dismality  of  Achard's  diverts  us. 
D.D.  makes  himself  agreeable  to  all,  and  I  have  the 
satisfaction  of  seeing  everybody  treat  him  with  that 
kindness  which  I  think  his  due ;  he  is  to  preach  to-day 
the  second  sermon  on  the  Duty  of  Children;  he  is 
quite  charmed  with  the  Duchess's  management  of  her 
little  family,  and  surprized  at  her  grecU  prudence  and 
resolution  in  regard  to  them ;  Lady  Margaret  is  grown 
a  very  pretty  girl  and  in  great  favour ;  Mrs.  Elstob 
is  pretty  well.  Yesterday  morning  D.D.,  Donnellan, 
and  I  went  to  Windsor  to  Miss  Granville.  She  was 
gone  to  church,  where  D.D.  followed  her,  but  Don- 
nellan and  I  were  so  cold  we  went  in,  stirred  up  her  fire, 
and  bespoke  breakfast;  they  soon  came  in,  and  after 
breakfast  was  over,  D.D,  proposed  going  to  see  the 
pallace ;  I  let  him  and  Don.  go  together,  and  staid  with 
Violet,  as  I  wanted  to  talk  with  her  about  her  own 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRa  DBLANT.  235 

affairs,  which  I  find  are  in  a  very  bad  way,  and  her 
spirits  very  low.  She  has  wrote  to  Lord  Carteret  to  desire 
he  would  get  her  a  pension ;  Betty  GranviHe^  delivered 
the  letter,  which  he  read,  and  assured  her,  (in  his  usual 
fiJse  style)  that  he  "  would  serve  her,  but  she  must  have 
patience''  It  grieves  me  that  so  valuable  a  young  woman 
should  be  so  distressed ;  the  best  of  her  dependence  is  an 
hundred  pounds  a  year,  paid  by  the  trustees,  and  when 
their  tmst  ceases,  in  all  probability  her  maintenance  may. 
But  we  must  not  despond — the  hand  that  overrules  all  I 
hope  wiQ  support  her.  Mrs,  Foley  has  had  a  cold  and 
been  blooded,  but  is  pretty  well  again.  I  have  heard  of 
abundance  of  weddings.  I  will  not  say  I  have  good  au- 
thority for  all,  but  false  news  in  the  country  is  matter  of 

amusement.     Lord and  Lady  Bell  Finch,"  Duke  of 

Beaufort^  (as  soon  as  the  divorce  is  concluded,  which  will 
be  soon)  and  Miss  Windham,  Will.  Leveson  *  and  Lady 
Blandford,  Lord  Euston,*  and  Lady  Camilla  Bennet,*  L** 
Litchfield  "^  and  Lady  Mary  Tufton.  I  have  not  heard 
fix)m  Sir  J.  Stanley  lately,  nor  from  Miss  Sutton  since  I 

■  The  Maid  of  Honour. 

'  Liody  Isabella  Finch,  died  unmarried  1771,  third  daughter  of  the  6th 
Earl  of  Winchelsea,  first  Lady  of  the  Bedchamber  to  the  Princess  Amelia. 

■  Henry,  3rd  Duke  of  Beaufort,  married,  June  28, 1729,  Frances,  only  child 
of  Visoonnt  Scudamore,  from  whom  he  was  divorced  in  1743-4,  and  did  not 
marry  again. 

*  William  Leveson,  second  son  of  John  first  Earl  Gower,  died  unmarried. 

*  Geoi^  Earl  of  Euston,  eldest  son  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Grafton, 
married,  in  1741,  Lady  Dorothy  Boyle,  eldest  daughter  of  Richard,  last  Earl 
of  Burlington,  who  died  the  year  after  her  marriage,  and  Lord  Euston  died 
in  1747. 

*  Lady  Camilla  Bennet,  only  daughter  of  Charles,  2nd  Earl  of  Tankerville. 
She  married  first,  Gilbert  Fane  Fleming,  Esq.,  and  secondly,  in  1779, 
Mr.  Wake. 

'  George  Henry  Lee,  P]arl  of  Litchfield,  succeeded  his  father,  February 
1742-3.     He  married  Diana,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Frankland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


236  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

came.  I  wrote  to  her  and  begged  of  her  to  let  me  know 
how  Lady  Sunderland  did ;  I  take  it  a  little  ill  of  her, 
because  it  has  given  me  great  uneasiness,  as  I  left  them 
aU  ill  and  in  affliction.  It  is  reported  that  our  great  cousin 
is  very  much  discontented^  that  he  wiU  not  long  maintaLn 
his  post,  and  that  Lord  Chesterfield  will  succeed  him  ; 
this  does  not  sound  very  probable. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  DeweSy  at  Calwich^  near  Ashbourne,  Derbyshire, 

Bnlatrode,  9  Dec.  1743. 

The  cold  I  had  when  I  left  London  was  so  slight  that 
it  was  not  worth  mentioning;  the  pure  air  of  this 
place  took  it  off  in  a  day,  and  I  have  not  the  least 
remains  of  it.  We  are  all  in  good  spirits  about  the  Duke 
of  Portland — his  arm  was  unbound  the  day  before 
yesterday,  and  is  very  right ;  in  a  week  more  they  say  it 
will  be  quite  knit :  all  send  kind  greetings  to  Calwich, 
where  I  suppose  you  are,  though  you  call  it  "  Bradley^  in 
your  letter.  But,  my  dearest  sister,  how  is  your  lame- 
ness ?  I  know  a  strain  in  the  calf  of  the  leg  is  a  very 
painful  thing,  but  I  believe  and  hope  not  so  lasting  an 
evil  as  a  sprain  of  the  ancle ;  I  know  you  are  under  the 
care  of  an  excellent  nurse  and  physician,  and  I  trust  they 
will  not  only  apply  what  is  proper,  but  will  keep  you 
quiet  as  long  as  is  necessary  for  you  to  be  so ;  and  the 
weather  is  not  tempting  enough  for  you  to  be  adven- 
turing :  let  your  son  seek  adventures  for  you,  his  youth 
and  spirits  can  bear  the  rough  salutes  of  Boreas,  and  the 
nipping  frost  he  bids  defiance  to.  WeTiave  had  no  such 
beautiftd  icicle  scenes  as  you    describe,  but  have  been 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBIiANT.  237 

douded  with  continual  fogs ;  about  noon  they  go  off,  and 
I  have  walked  or  gone  in  coach  or  chaise  every  day.  The 
Duchess,  who  loves  everybody  and  everything  better  than 
herself,  will  not  use  that  constant  exercise  that  is  pre- 
scribed for  her,  though  yesterday  we  prevailed  on  her  to 
make  Mrs.  Bellenden  a  visit  at  Beconsfield,  who  is  as 
bouncing  ps  ever,  and  as  loud :  she  made  many  enquiries 
after  you  and  my  brother.  To-morrow  we  go  to  Windsor 
to  see  Miss  Granville.  Mr.  Drummond  was  here  when 
I  received  your  last  letter,  and  I  made  your  compliments 
to  him,  he  returns  you  his,  and  many  thanks  for  your  kind 
wishes.  Lord  Dupplin's  son  is  dead,  but  his  wife  alive  ;* 
happy  could  he  have  made  an  exchange,  for  she  grows 
more  and  more  intolerable,  and  sets  him  at  variance  with 
all  his  familv. 

I  am  glad  the  Shepherd  of  Calwich  has  got  a  good 
flock  without  doors,  as  well  as  within — everything  that 
adds  to  his  contentment  and  pleasure  adds  to  my  happi- 
ness ;  had  I  not  a  very  pure  disinterested  love  for  you  all, 
erwy  would  creep  in  and  make  me  angry  at  a  satisfaction 
you  possess  together  without  me,  but  far  be  that  Jiend 
from  me ;  I  feel  all  your  joys,  and  wait  till  the  happy 
hour  arrives  that  will  give  me  my  share  with  you.  I  am 
afraid  Mr.  Dewes  will  think  I  am  not  a  woman  of  my 
word,  I  promised  to  write  to  him,  but  you  know  what  a 
devourer  of  one's  time  the  Duchess  of  Portland  is  when 
one  is  with  her ;  I  have  not  written  three  letters  since 
my  being  here  besides  what  you  have  had,  and  they 


'  Gonstantia,  daughter  and  heiress  of  John  Eyrie  Ernie,  Esq.,  married  in 
1741,  Thomas  Viscomit  Dnpplin,  afterwards  Earl  of  Einnonl,  and  had  an 
only  child,  bom  August  12,  1742,  who  died  October  14,  1743.  The  Countess 
herself  died  in  1753. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


238  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

were  letters  of  business.  I  hope  Mr.  Dewes  will  have  a 
good  journey,  and  find  you  quite  weU  of  your  lameness. 
I  am  just  come  from  showing  D.D.  the  Park ;  we  borrowed 
the  Duchess's  chaise ;  she  intends  to  build  a  grotto  in  the 
hollow  that  you  have  a  sketch  of,  and  I  am  to  design  the 
plan  for  it.  Her  projects  of  planting  and  building  are  aa 
innumerable  as  her  works,  but  she  will  be  prudent  in  her 
execution  of  them,  and  not  go  on  too  fast ;  she  has  this 
year  made  some  improvements  in  the  garden.  I  must  go  to 
prayers,  where  my  dearest  sister  will  be  remembered  in  my 
most  serious  moments,  and  this  must  be  finished  at  night. 

Night  is  come,  and  I  was  in  hopes  of  getting-  some 
news  from  Lord  G.,  who  came  to-day  from  London,  but 
how  foolish  was  I  to  believe  I  could  gather  knowledge ! 
"  To-morrow  is  to  be  an  important  day  with  the  Lordsr — 
"  About  what,  my  Lord?" — ''About  what?  nay  I  dxnCt 
hnowy  I  cant  tell ;  I  know  nothing  of  the  matter/' — "  I  hear, 
my  Lord,  that  the  players  have  quarrelled,  pray  how  is 
it  ?" — **  /  cMt  trouble  my  head  about  it — it  is  no  concern 
of  minCj  aU  stuff  and  nonsense"  Thus  were  we  informed, 
and  I  was  resolved  you  should  have  your  part  pf  it.  The 
clock  strikes  nine,  the  supper-bell  rings,  but  before  I 
finish  I  must  obey  our  kind  Sovereign,  who  desires  her 
''  affectionate  compliments  to  dear  Pip,  and  as  soon  as 
she  can  write  she  will.'^ 

D.D.  is  very  busy,  looking  over  his  works  for  the 
press;  as  soon  as  that  work  is  accomplished  he  will 
write  to  the^ ''pearly  Dews" 

God  bless  you  all !  You  say  nothing  of  the  young 
park-keeper  at  Highnam, — I  hope  his  situation  agrees 
with  him.  The  lovely  little  group  here  are  well,  and  so 
is  Mrs.  Elstob ;  all  send  kind  love  and  service  to  Pip. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  ^R8.  DBLANY.  239 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Deioes,  at  CcUtoich,  near  Askhoume,  Berkshire, 

Bulstrode,  14  Dec,  1743. 

I  proposed  to  myself  writing  my  most  dear  sister  a  long 
letter  to-day,  but  behold  how  my  designs  are  frustrated. 
This  morning  I  went  with  the  Duchess  of  Portland, 
to  wait  on  the  Duchess  of  Kent,^  and  we  came  home  to 
dinner  at  half-an-hour  past  four,  and  I  am  now  so  lazy 
and  tired  (though  otherwise  perfectly  well)  that  I  cannot 
say  much,  but  will  send  you  next  post  a  folio  sheet.  I 
am  very  sorry  to  find  your  lameness  still  confines  you, 
and  cannot  help  thinking  the  accident  has  been  worse 
than  you  own.  "Whatever  it  is,  I  beseech  you,  be  not  too 
hasty  in  walking.  The  Duchess  of  Kent^  has  made  vast 
improvements  at  Old  Windsor ;  I  had  not  a  notion  of 
half  the  beauties  of  the  place ;  she  has  made  a  walk  wind- 
ing up  the  hill,  and  a  noble  terrace-walk  at  the  top  that 
commands  a  most  extensive  aud  delightfiil  prospect.  We 
dropt  D.D.  at  Mr.  Bateman's,  but  found  he  was  expected 
at  the  Duchess  of  Kent's,  the  servant  had  forgot  to  deliver 
the  message,  which  brings  another  visit  upon  us ;  indeed 
I  am  ready  to  drop  asleep  over  my  paper,  I  must  have 
some  coffee  to  wake  me.     So  adieu. 


Lady  Sarah  Cowptfi^  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

♦    December  20th,  1743. 

It  will  be  excusing  one  fault  by  another  when  owning 
I  am  ashamed  to  see  two  letters  from  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes 


*  Sopbia,  daughter  of  William  Earl  of  Portland,  and  widow  of  Henry  Grey 
Dnke  of  Kent. 

'  Lady  Sarab  Cowper  was  the  eldest  daughter  of  William,  Ist  Earl  Cowper. 
She  died  nnmarried  in  1758. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


240  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

unanswered.  I  confess  at  the  same  time,  that  I  have 
broke  my  word  with  the  physician  who  attended  me  in 
the  country,  and  to  whom  I  promised  a  faithM  account  of 
my  health  in  ten  days,  which  I  have  not  found  time  for 
in  two  months.  Three  months  in  debt  to  Miss  Talbot, 
&c. ;  and  my  letter-case  is  foil  of  demands  of  the 
same  nature.  Writing  is  scarcely  tolerable  to  me  yet, 
suffering  under  a  thousand  complaints,  though  that  of  my 
head  is  entirely  removed.  Dr.  Hoadley  said  it  was 
rheumatic,  hitherto  it  only  leaves  one  part  to  attack 
another ;  but  I  am  told  I  shall  be  well  in  time,  or  what 
is  equivalent  pain  will  become  habitual,  and  I  shall  not 
mind  it;  I  believe  neither  of  these  predictions ;  my  age 
will  not  let  me  hope  the  one,  nor  my  impatient  temper  the 
other.  In  such  circumstances  I  wish,  though  in  vain,  that 
all  my  friends  were  about  me  which  is  always  a  blessing 
devoutly  to  be  wished, — but  in  my  case  would  be  more 
particularly  so ;  yet  my  brothers  and  sisters  and  many 
that  I  love  are  absent.  The  comfort  I  have  is  in  Mrs. 
Pointz's  family ;  I  see  them  well,  and  in  great  joy  that 
the  inoculation  of  the  girls  has  been  as  successful  as  that 
of  the  boys,  and  they  have  one  fear  less  to  struggle  with. 
I  had  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Delany  last  night, — she  does 
not  talk  of  leaving  Bulstrode  yet ;  she  was  very  good  to 
me  when  in  town.  I  saw  her  here  two  or  three  times, 
and  called  upon  her  one  morning ;  we  had  not  time  to 
look  over  the  drawings  and  poetry  you  write  of.  Nothing 
convinces  me  more  of  the  power  Mrs.  Delany  has  (wer  me, 
than  feeling  myself  growing  reconciled  to  the  adventurous 
step  she  has  taken,  but  she  gives  reasons  for  every  thing 
she  does  that  /  can't  but  submit  to;  I  wish  her  happy; 
she  says  she  is  so,  and  /  must  believe  her. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  241 

There  is  no  news  but  politics,  which  I  never  attend  to 
enough  to  repeat  with  clearness. 

You  mention  one  of  your  boys  only  at  Calwich.  I  hope 
both  are  well. 

Believe  me  most  sincerely  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes, 
Your  very  aflTectionate  and  obliged  humble  servant, 

S,  COWPER. 

My  compliments  to  Mr.  Granville, 


The  Counter  OranviHe  U>  Mn,  Ddany. 

Jan.  2,  1743-4. 

The  enclosed  is  a  copy  of  my  letter  which  I  wrote  to 
the  Duke  of  Devonshire  as  soon  as  I  received  my  dear- 
est cousin's  commands*  I  wish  success  may  attend  aU 
you  can  desire,  and  that  Dr.  Delany  and  you  may  see 
many  happy  new  years  together  I  I  am  sorry  for  the 
Duke  of  Portland's  accident.  I  hope  her  Grace  and  his 
Grace  may  now  soon  be  in  town,  that  I  may  have  the 
pleasure  of  your  company  ;  Fanny  *  begins  to  return  her 
visits,  and  will  be  overjoyed  to  converse  with  you 
both  at  your  house  and  in  Arlington  Street,  and  to  wait 
on  you  to  the  opera ;  but  these  are  no  temptations  for 
you  to  leave  the  fine  place  you  are  in  till  the  family  breaks 
up.  My  best  compliments  to  all,  and  my  particular  and 
tender  respects  to  Dr.  Delany. 
I  am,  dear  Madam, 

Your  affectionate  humble  servant, 

Granville. 


>  Lady  Frances  Carteret,  married,   May  25,  1743,  to  John  Marqnis  of 
Tweeddale. 

VOL.  II.  R 


Digitized  by 


Google 


242  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

This  letter  from  the  Countess  Granville  is  a  proof  that  her  old 
feelings  of  attachment  to  Mary  ChranvUk  had  returned,  even  after 
her  marriage  with  Dr.  Delany,  which  had  discomposed  her  veiy 
much.  Mrs.  Delany  always  seemed  to  distrust  the  sincerity  of 
Lord  Carteret^  but  there  is  no  •  doubt  that  he  was,  individually, 
partial  to  Dr.  Delany,  and  that  he  had  taken  especial  pleasure  in 
his  society  until  the  marriage  which  both  he  and  his  mother 
disapproved,  though  it  does  not  appear  that  there  were  any  other 
grounds  than  inequality  of  birth ;  and  that,  as  an  individual,  both 
Countess  Granville  and  her  "son  liked  Dr.  Delany. 


Mrs.  Delamy  to  Mrs.  DeweSy  at  Cailnnch,  near  Ashbourne^  Derbyshire, 

Bulstrode,  4  Jan.  1743-4. 

I  am  happy  in  a  full  assurance  of  my  dearest  sister  s 
kind  wishes  at  every  season  and  on  every  occasion ;  but 
I  feel  strongly  the  truth  of  what  you  say,  that  when  the 
heart  is  particularly  filled  with  gratitude  to  the  great 
Author  and  Bestower  of  all  our  blessings,  those  friends 
we  love  most  tenderly  cannot  fail  of  our  prayers  and  wishes 
for  their  prosperity ;  nor  can  we  omit  our  most  gratefiil 
acknowledgments  for  the  happiness  we  enjoy  in  tender 
valuable  friends.  My  most  dear  sister  knows  how  nearly 
^  she  is  concerned  in  what  I  say  on  this  subject.  1  do  not 
expect  to  hear  from  the  Squire  of  Calwich  so  long  as  he 
can  have  so  good  a  secretary  as  yourself  at  his  service, 
nor  do  I  insist  on  his  writing  as  long  as  I  can  have  the 
assurance  from  you  of  his  being  well.  I  say  the  same 
to  my  dear  mama,  and  beg  she  will  not  think  herself 
obliged  to  write  to  me  because  I  wrote  to  her ;  she  is 
so  excessively  good  to  me  when  she  is  alone  in  letting  me 
hear  from  her  constantly  that  she  may  well  indulge 
herself  now.    I  am  extremely  pleased  with  your  hospitable 


Digitized  by 


Google 


MR3.  DELANY.  243 

and  rational  way  of  spending  your  Xtmas.  I  know 
nobody  better  qualified  to  make  his  friends  and  neigh- 
bours happy  than  your  landlord,  and  I  heartily  wish  we 
were  with  him  to  enjoy  our  share  of  the  happiness  he 
dispenses/  but  our  affairs  this  winter  will  confine  us  to  a 
spot  of  less  delight,  and  we  must  wait  for  the  spring  and 
snnshine  before  we  can  take  that  share.  Must  I  give  up 
all  hopes  of  seeing  you  in  town  ?  I  hopQ  Mr.  Dewes  has 
entirely  lost  the  disorder  in  his  eye  and  that  he  is  very  well, 
pray  assure  him  of  my  best  service.  He  has  had  fine 
walking  weather,  and  I  dare  say  has  made  good  use  of  it. 
Tou  know  by  this  time  how  well  we  agree  in  oftr  opi- 
nion of  the  Yellow  Journal ;  'tis  really  droll  and  witty. 
I  believe  I  told  you  the  judgment  of  this  house  about 
the  Fifth  Night  ;^  *tis  not  so  dark  as  some  of  his  former, 
but  has  not  so  much  merit  as  his  last,  though  many 
thoughts  and  lines  in  it  are  charming.  I  am  sorry  my 
godson  begins  with  blotting  out  ''good,''  but  that  was 
your  fault  more  than  his.  I  suppose  by  this  time  he  can 
point  to  round  O  and  A,  and  that  I  shall  find  him  a 
notable  scholar  in  the  spring.  You  bid  me  not  be  under 
any  concern  about  your  lameness — a  reasonable  request, 
truly,  and  very  practicable  for  me  to  put  in  execution ;  you 
may  as  well  charge  me  not  to  be  cold  this  weather ;  but 
yotir  letter  to  the  Duchess  has  lessened  my  concern  and 
given  her  a  great  deal  of  pleasure,  for  which  she  bids  me 
give  you  her  kind  love  and  many  thanks.     Have  you 

'  This  sentence  indicates  that  Mr.  Granville  had  invited  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Delany  to  Calwich,  and  that  there  was  a  certain  appearance  of  amity ;  but  it 
was  very  clear  that  there  was  a  great  change  in  the  feelings  and  conduct  of 
Mr.  Granville  after  his  sister's  marriage  which  made  her  very  unhappy. 

a  "  Night  Thoughts,"  by  Dr.  Young,  were  supposed  to  have  been  prompted 
by  the  death  of  his  wife  in  1741.  They  were  published  at  different  times  dur- 
mg  the  years  1743-4. 

R   2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


244  LIFE  AND  CJOKRESPONDENCE 

Been  the  comet  ?  All  here  saw  it  last  night  but  myself ; 
but  I  was  writing,  and  by  the  time  I  had  done  it  grew 
cloudy ;  it  is  to  be  seen  not  far  from  the  south,"  near  the 
constellations  Aries  and  Pisces,  if  the  air  be  clear;  it 
is  like  a  small  star  with  a  streaming  tail,  but  of  a  faint 
light ;  it  was  seen  here  last  night  about  7/ 

Now  I  must  tell  you  what  is  more  extraordinary  than 
any  phenomenon  in  the  sky ;  upon  hearing  that  Dr.  Fletcher, 
Dean  of  Down,  was  to  be  made  Bishop  of  Eaphoe  I  wrote 
to  Lady  G.  to  desire  she  would  apply  to  the  Duke  of 
Devonshire  immediately  for  it,  for  that  D.D.  would  Uke 
it  as  i^ell  as  the  bishopric,  and  in  truth  it  is  a  better  thing. 
She  answered  me  the  third  day  after  I  wrote  to  her  in  the 
kindest  manner^  and  sent  me  a  copy  of  her  letter  which 
she  wrote  to  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  as  soon  as  she 
received  ''my  commands''  as  she  calls  them — s.  very 
strong,  pressing  request  for  the  deanery.  Well,  this  is 
not  all  the  strange  news. — Lord  Carteret  has  presented  the 
Maid  of  Honour  ^  with  a  very  handsome  birthday  suit  of 
£3  a  yard ;  I  dare  say  it  is  all  by  way  of  courtship,  but 
the  poor  nun  of  Windsor  has  no  hopes,  and  they  talk  of 
trying  to  prevail  with  Lord  Weymouth  to  add  to  her  in- 
come, which  Miss  Granville  fears  may  only  do  her  a  mis- 
chief with  him,  but  this  is  to  put  off  trouble  from  them- 
selves, and  they  do  not  consider  the  bad  consequence  :  how- 
ever, if,  on  their  application.  Lord  Wejrmouthis  disobliged, 
it  ought  to  be  a  strong  motive  to  them  to  make  it  up  to  her. 


1  "  The  head  api)ears  bright,  equal  nearly  in  magnitude  to  the  star  Siriiis, 
the  brightest  star  in  our  heinisphere.  It  has  a  fiery  tail  about  six  degi-ecs 
in  length." — London  Magazine,  1744,  p.  46. 

2  The  Hon.  Elizabeth  Giranville,  with  whom  it  was  then  supposed  Lord 
Carteret  was  in  love. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  245 

The  Ihike  of  Portland  is  very  well ;  they  talk  of  re- 
moving the  latter  end  of  next  week,  and  will  not  part  with 
us  till  the  day  before  they  go.  Donnellan,  D.D.,  and  I 
went  yesterday  to  Beconsfield,  to  see  Peg,  who  was  ex- 
cellent, and  entertained  ttsyerj  much.  She  enquired  after 
you  and  my  brother  very  particularly.  It  is  reported  that 
the  old  Duchess  of  Marlborough  is  paying  off  the  Duke 
of  Marlborough's  debts,  and  that  she  has  given  orders  to 

her  porter  not  to  let  that  dog  of  a in-law  into  her 

doors  on  pain  of  losing  his  place.  ^  Miss  Hamilton,  Lady 
Brooks,^  sist  (illegible)  married  to  Lord  Sutton  Manners,^ 
and  Miss  Selwyn,  the  Maid  of  Honour,  very  soon  to  Sir 
William  liby,*  who  has  got  by  the  death  of  Lord  Ux- 
bridge'  £5000  a-year.  She  is  a  lucky  girl,  for  he  is  a  very 
good  sort  of  man. 

D.D.'s  most  affectionate  service  and  duty  attends  Cal- 
wich.  Thank  God,  he  is  very  well,  and  I  have  the 
happiness  to  find  him  loved  and  respected  by  everybody. 

My  dearest  sister,  ever,  &c. 


'  This  must  have  been  the  Duke  of  Montague. 

'  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  of  Lord  Archibald  Hamilton,  married  in  May, 
1742,  Francis  Greville,  Ist  Earl  Brooke  and  Earl  of  Warwick.  The  Earl 
died  July  6,  1773.  Jane,  second  daughter  of  Lord  Archibald  Hamilton, 
married  July  24,  1753,  Charles,  9th  Lord  Cathcart. 

3  Lord  Robert  Sutton  Manners,  boru  in  172?,  was  the  second  son  of  John, 
3rd  Duke  of  .Rutland  and  of  Bridget,  only  child  and  heir  of  Robert  Sutton 
Lord  Lexington.  He  assumed  the  name  of  Sutton  on  succeeding  to  the 
Lexington  estate,  and  died  unmarried  in  1762.  On  his  death,  Lord  George 
Manners,  his  next  brother,  inherited  that  estate  and  took  the  name  of  Sutton. 

•  Sir  William  Irby,  bom  March  8,  1707,  created  Baron  Boston  Ai)n\  16, 
1761.  This  nobleman  filled  several  high  ofiBces  about  the  court  diirinjj  the 
reigns  of  George  I-  and  George  II.  He  married  Albinia,  (daughter  of  Henry 
Selwyn,  Esq.)  who  was  one  of  the  Maids  of  Honour  to  the  Princess  of  Wales. 

*  Henry^  7th  liOrd  Paget,  created  Earl  of  Uxbridge,  Oct.  1714,  died  in  1743, 
and  was  succeeded  by  his  grandson,  the  2nd  Earl. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


246  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


The  following  letter  alludes  to  an  accident  which  must  have 
occurred  between  4th  and  9th  of  January. 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  Caltnch,  near  Ashbourne^  Derhyshirt, 

Bulstrode,  9  Jan.  1743. 

I  hope  my  dear  friends  at  Calwich  will  make  them- 
selves quite  easy  on  my  account,  for  I  am  as  well  as 
it  is  possible  for  me  to  be  under  my  present  circum- 
stances ;  indeed  much  better  than  I  imagined  anybody 
could  be  after  my  accident,  as  you  may  conclude  from 
my  being  allowed  to  write  this  letter;  which  I  do  with 
perfect  ease  to  myself.  Saturday  I  got  up  to  dinner 
and  eat  boiled  chicken  very  heartily,  and  yesterday 
eat  roasted  chicken;  and  this  morning  have  sate  an 
hour  in  the  dressing-room,  whilst  the  bedchamber  was 
airing,  and  to-morrow  shall  sit  all  day  in  my  dressing- 
room,  and  next  day  go  up  to  the  Duchesses  apartment ;  and 
on  Friday  (please  God)  propose  to  go  to  town.  It  is,  I 
believe,  imnecessary  for  me  to  enlarge  on  the  kindness 
and  care  I  have  met  with  from  our  amiable  friend  the 
Duchess  and  Donnellan ;  much  less  reason  have  I  to  say 
anything  of  D.D.'s  tenderness  to  me.  I  am  sure  you  have 
a  confidence  in  my  nurses,  and  hope  to  find  by  your 
letters  that  you  have  not  aggravated  your  concern  for  me 
by  any  unnecessary  fears.  My  being  able  to  write  so 
well  to-day  has  robbed  you  of  a  letter  from  D.D. ;  but 
next  post  he  will  write  for  me.  Direct  your  next  letters 
to  Clarges  Street.  I  received  your  last  dear  letter,  and 
hope  you  will  soon  recover  the  perfect  strength  of  your 
foot.  Donnellan  hopes  to  hear  from  you  soon.  Adieu,  my 
most  dear  sister. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  247 

In  Dr.  Delany^B  fumdufriting, 

I  do  hereby  certify  that  the  above  account  is  the  truth, 
the  whole  truth,  and  nothing  but  the  truth. 

Pat.  Delant. 


Dr,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Bulstrode,  Jan  11th,  1743-4. 

I  am  set  down,  my  dear  sister,  with  the  worst  pen  and 
ink  in  the  world,  but  the  best  good  will  to  write  to  you, 
and  to  inform  you  that  the  Pearl  is,  I  thank  God,  as  fair 
and  mvch  more  precious  than  ever.  She  has  actually 
forbidden  me  to  say  one  word  of  vapours  or  hysteric 
headachs ;  but  I  am  tied  to  truth,  and  therefore  must 
own  to  you  that  she  has  had,  both  yesterday  and  to-day, 
complaints  of  that  kind,  but  without  the  least  symptom  of 
anything  that  deserves  more  attention  than  the  inevitable 
concern  which  must  arise  in  the  hearts  of  those  that  are 
deeply  engaged.  She  is  at  this  moment  in  high  mirth 
with  the  Duchess;  she  eat  her  dinner  with  a  good 
relish,  has  just  drunk  a  cup  of  caudle,  and  I  think 
she  is  well  disposed  for  her  supper,  and  gives  hopes  of  a 
good  night.  She  is  mightily  bent  on  going  to  town  on 
Friday  or  Saturday  next,  and  I  am  at  least  satisfied  she 
may  do  so  with  safety,  however,  I  have  this  day  sent  to 
Dr.  Bamber  to  have  the' sanction  of  his  opinion  whether 
it  may  be  done  with  perfect  safety. 

You  who  know  me,  and  the  treasure  under  my  care^ 
will  not  be  ill  any  way  surprised  at  my  solicitude ;  in- 
deed my  whole  soul  is,  and  has  some  time  been,  divided 
between  prayers  and  thanksgivings  to  Almighty  God — 
thanksgivings  for  the  blessing  of  such  a  wife  bestowed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


248  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

upon  me,  and  earnest  prayers  for  the  continuance  of  it ; 
God  in  his  goodness  continue  this  blessing  to  you  and 
everybody  !  with  as  little  alloy  as  mortality  will  bear,  as 
long  as  I  live,  and  as  long  as  you  wish,  and  as  much  longer 
as  heaven  has  happiness  in  store  for  her.^  I  am  got  into 
a  spirit  of  praying,  and  cannot  indulge  it  more  agreeably 
than  in  lifting  up  my  heart  to  heaven  for  its  choicest 
blessings  on  you  aD.     Adieu. 

In  Mrs.  Detany*8  handwr&ing. 

I  have  promised  only  to  say  that  I  am  as  well  as  can 
possibly  be  expected  ;  my  head  is  much  better,  and  my 
heart  most  truly  yours. 

In  Mt%.  DonneUan's  hcmdwriting. 

The  good  Doctor  and  our  "d^ear  Pearl "  have  given  me 
leave  to  join  my  good  wishes  to  all  my  agreeable  friends 
at  Calwich,  and  to  assure  them  that  I  think  her  as  well 
as  could  possibly  be  expected,  which  I  know  is  the  most 
pleasing  news  I  can  tell  them.  I  must  gratify  myself, 
since  I  have  this  opportunity,  in  wishing  dear  Mrs.  Dewes 
a  happy  year,  and  to  Mr.  Dewes,  Mrs.  Granville,  and  my 
much  esteemed  friend  Mr.  Granville,  and  the  little  ones ; 
and  in  assuring  dear  Mrs.  Dewes  that  I  am  her  most. 
Affectionate  friend  and  servant, 

H.  DONNELLAN. 


*  The  prayer  here  uttered  was  completely  fulfilled ;  Mrs.  Delany's  life  wow 
prolonged  far  beyond  that  of  her  husband  and  sister,  and  to  the  termmation  of 
her  existence  much  happiness  was  granted. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  249 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detoes,  at  Calwkhy  near  Ashhoume,  Derbyshire. 

Bulstrode,  13  Jan.  1743-4. 

I  hope  the  constant  and  true  account  you  have  had  of  me 
from  hence,  has  made  you  and  the  rest  of  my  dear  friends 
easy  on  my  account,  and  much  more  care  and  caution  has 
been  usecl  than  I  have  thought  necessary.  I  did  not 
want  any  proof  of  D.D/s  aflfection  and  tenderness,  but  I 
am  confirmed  in  the  opinion  of  his  having  as  much  for 
me  as  my  best  friends  can  wish  him  to  have ;  and  this  I 
beUeve  t/ou  are  so  well  convinced  of,  that  it  was  not  neces- 
sary for  me  to  be  particular  in  it,  but  in  justice  to  him  and 
my  own  gratitude,  I  must  indulge  myself  in  repeating  it. 
He  wrote  you  word  last  post  that  I  had  an  hysteric 
headache ;  it  lasted  but  two  days,  and  is  now  perfectly 
well,  and  I  have  no  manner  of  complaint. 

Yesterday  I  dined  above  stairs  (you  know  my  apart- 
ment is  below),  and  returned  to  my  room  at  supper-time ; 
going  abroad  agreed  very  well  with  me,  and  I  had 
a  very  good  night's  rest,  and  would  fain  have  gone  to 
town  to  day,  but  D.D.  would  not  consent  without  Dr. 
Bamber's  leave,  and  old  fusty  physicians  you  know  are 
full  of  ceremony,  and  he  says  though  I  might  travel  this 
week,  it  is  most  advisable  for  me  to  stay  till  the  middle 
of  next ;  so  the  day  is  now  fixed  for  Thursday.  Donnel- 
lan  is  gone  to  town  to-day ;  she  had  au  account  that  Mrs. 
"Percival  had  not  been  very  well,  and  the  Duchess  could 
not  prevail  with  her  to  stay  any  longer,  and  I  could  not 
oppose  her  doing  what  was  so  right,  though  I  hope  Mrs. 
Percival's  illness  is  nothing  dangerous.  I  was  extremely 
entertained  with  your  letter,  my  dearest  sister,  which  I 
believe   drove   away  my  headache  yesterday  morning: 


Digitized  by 


Google 


250  LIFE  AND  COREBSPONDENOE 

every  testimony  of  your  love  ajid  friendship  is  better 
to  me  than  gold-powder  or  sal  volatile.  I  wonder  my 
spirits  should  ever  want  a  cordial,  whilst  you  so  kindly 
and  constantly  supply  me  with  your  letters,  but  your 
foot  is  still  vexatious  to  you  and  to  me.  I  believe 
I  have  of  late  been  the  subject  of  great  conversation  round 
the  fircHside  of  Calwich ;  and  when  I  know  that  my  dear 
mama,  brother,  and  sister  are  satisfied  about  me,  I  shall  be 
quite  happy,  then  I  may  say  with  a  good  conscience,  that 
I  am  perfectly  well.  Our  amiable  Duchess  is  but  indif- 
ferent, she  is  very  busy  preparing  for  her  remove,  her 
"  kind  service  to  Pip"  and  compliments  to  Calwich.  We  all 
had  the  good  luck  to  guess  Mr.  Dewes'  riddle ;  my  very 
good  wishes  and  service  attend  him  and  you  all,  with  the 
addition  of  duty  and  love ;  D.D.  joins  with  me.  Don't 
expect  to  hear  next  post,  for  now  I  shall  fall  into  my 
usual  train  of  every  other  post.  I  am  my  dearest  sis 
most 

Affectionate  and  faithful 
M.  D. 
Mrs.  Elstob  sends  her  respects. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs  Dewes, 

Bulstrode,  18  Jan.  1743-4. 

Though  I  hope  my  dearest  sister  is  quite  satisfied  about 
me,  I  believe  you  will  want  to  know  how  I  perform  my 
small  journey  to  town ;  so  I  prepared  this  letter  for  that 
purpose,  that  I  may  to-morrow  add  that  part ;  and  now 
have  not  much  to  tell  you  but  that  I  am  very  well  and 
have  not  the  least  headache,  and  walked  in  tJie  sun  at 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  261 

twelve  o'clock  to-day,  and  got  a  very  good  appetite  to 
my  dinner.  I  wrote  my  mother  word  that  D.D.  and  1 
were  left  in  possession  of  this  place ;  we  live  in  the 
Duke's  apartment,  who  has  left  orders  that  we  should  be 
supplied  with  everything  we  want,  which  we  are  indeed 
most  plentifully.  Betty  Woodall  (my  maid)  is  house- 
keeper, and  behaves  herself  very  well,  and  I  believe  will 
prove  a  discreet  useful  servant,  and  I  am  really  sorry  to 
leave  our  agreeable  retirement.  The  days  have  not  been 
tedious ;  we  read  to  one  another  by  turns,  have  turned 
over  all  the  picture-books  we  could  find,  talk  abundantly, 
and  play  sometimes  at  backgammon.  D.D.  says  he 
never  played  before,  but  he  is  so  quick  at  it  that  if  I  did 
not  know  himto  be  a  man  of  strict  veracity  I  should  not 
believe  him. 

Our  retirement  has  produced  a  journal  addressed  to 
the  Duchess  of  Portland ;  she  was  under  great  concern 
about  leaving  us  here  so  ill  accommodated,  as  she  was 
pleased  to  say,  and  that  she  was  ''  sure  we  should  live  like 
hogs,"  which  provoked  us  to  giving  her  an  exact  account 
of  our  spending  our  time.  You  shall  have  a  copy  of  it 
when  I  have  time  to  write  it  out ;  but  upon  my  first 
gomg  to  London  I  shall  have  abundance  of  affairs  on 
my  hands.  Ton  must  not  expect  to  hear  from  me  next 
post.  I  think  myself  obliged  to  justify  Lady  G.  to  you 
about  the  affair  of  the  deanery,  she  only  acted  as  she  was 
desired ;  it  is  a  irvore  advantageous  thing  than  many  of  the 
bishoprics,  and  would  have  been  much  more  agreeable  and 
convenient  to  us  than  the  bishopric  of  Eaphoe,  for  the 
income  is  as  good,  and  we  should  have  been  more  at 
liberty,  and  another  advantage — ^we  should  have  been 
free  from  ceremony.     However,  it  will  not  be  ours,  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


252  '        LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Baphoe  is  given  to  an  Englishman,  Dr.  Barnard,  Dean 
of  Eochester ;  *  and  Mr.  Fletcher  keeps  his  deanery. 
The  Duchess,  &c.,  got  very  well  to  town ;  I  had  a  letter 
from  her  yesterday.  So  now  good  night.  I  will  add  a 
postscript  to-morrow,  as  soon  as  I  get  to^Clarges  Street. 
Duty,  love,  and  service  from  D.D.  (who  is  now  writing 
to  Mrs.  Viney)  to  all  at  Calwich. 
I  am,  my  dearest  sister's 

Most  faithful  and  most  affectionate 

M.  D. 

I  am  sorry  our  poor  friend  Mrs.  D.  has  not  been 
remembered  in  her  brother's  will ;  I  had  a  letter  from  her 
this  morning.  This  moment  I  have  received  your  letter, 
and  must  add  my  best  thanks  for  it,  and  for  aU  the  kind 
care  and  concern  of  my  friends  at  Calwich. 

Thursday,  half-4ui-hoar  after  two. 

We  are,  thank  God,  safely  arrived,  and  I  am  very  well, 
and  find  my  own  little  castle  very  neat  and  comfortable. 
Mrs.  Foley  was  brought  to  bed  yesterday ;  she  went  to 
church  in  the  morning,  and  the  whole  affair  was  over  at 
eight  at  night,  and  before  she  could  get  Dr.  Sandys. 
She  has  got  a  fine  girl.  DonneUan  and  Clarke  are  come 
to  dine  with  us.  Adieu !  D.  D.  is  much  obliged  to  you 
for  your  letter,  which  has  just  made  us  happy.  So  once 
more  farewell ! 


*  Dr.  William  Barnard,  Dean  of  Rochester,  created  Bishop  of  Ra^ihoe  in 
1744: ;  translated  to  Bishopric  of  Derry  in  1747,  which  see  he  occupied  till 
1768. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  253 


Mrs,  Ddany,  to  Mrs,  Bewes, 

ClargeB  Street,  24  Jan.  1743-4. 

Mr  DEAREST  Sister, 

Pray  tell  my  brother,  good  wits  jump.  What  he 
has  kindly  hinted  in  your  letter  has  been  at  my  heart 
and  was  proposed  to  me  by  D^D.,  but  there  are  some 
obstacles  in  the  way  which  if  I  can  remove  /  wiU  in- 
dulge myself  in  paying  a  visit  to  dear  Calwich.  I  have 
business  in  town  that  obliges  me  to  be  here  the  latter 
end  of  March,  but  if  I  can  contrive  to  spend  six  weeks 
with  you  I  will  come :  the  journey  is  too  tedious  and 
the  roads  too  bad  to  remove  for  a  less  time,  but  that 
depends  on  D.D/s  going  to  Ireland.  He  waits  for  an 
account  of  the  yacht's  being  at  Chester ;  as  soon  as  he 
has  notice  of  its  being  there  he  will  determine  his 
journey,  and  hopes  he  shall  not  be  an  unwelcome  guest 
at  Calwich  if  he  drops  me  there  in  his  way  to  Chester. 

If  this  scheme  goes  on  I  shall  not  move  anything  in  my 
house  till  I  return ;  at  that  time  I  shall  be  glad  of  a 
hurry,  and  perhaps  you  can  come  and  help  me,  and  I 
may,  when  all  that  is  settled,  and  D.D.  returns,  be  at 
liberty  to  take  another  tour  among  my  friends.  I  have 
not  yet  ventured  to  Northend ;  the  weather  has  been  cold, 
and  I  am  very  carefull.  How  Sir  J.  Stanley  will  take  this 
flight  I  don't  know,  but  I  fear  not  very  well,  he  com- 
plains very  much,  and  is  by  all  accounts  much  in  the 
same  way  he  was  in  last  year.  D.D.  made  him  a  visit 
last  Saturday ;  I  am  very  glad  my  brother  has  prevailed 
with  you  to  send  your  case  to  Dr.  Bamber  ;  I  will  get  him 
consulted  as  soon  as  possible,  but  shall  not  be  able  to 
send  his  answer  this  post.     I  believe  you  should  keep 


Digitized  by  VjOOQ IC 


254  UPE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

your  foot  warm  and  be  extremely  carefiil  not  to  turn  or 
bruise  it. 

I  was  yesterday  morning  at  Mr.  Handel's  to  hear  the 
rehearsal  of  Semele/  It  is  a  delightful  piece  of  music, 
quite  new  and  different  from  anything  he  has  done :  but 
I  am  afraid  I  shall  hear  no  more  music  this  year,  and 
that  will  be  a  loss  to  me, — but  the  harmony  offrienddiip 
must  make  up  that  loss.  As  we  have  a  prospect  of 
meeting  soon  I  defer  a  particular  account  of  it  till  we 
meet.  Francescina*  is  improved,  and  sings  the  principal 
part  in  it. 

I  desire  you  will  recollect  all  the  want  that  I  can 
supply  you  with  before  I  leave  London,  and  send  me  a 
list  of  commissions.  I  fancy  we  shall  hardly  leave 
London  before  Ash  Wednesday.  D.D,  is  engaged  to 
preach  on  that  day  for  the  Bishop  of  Oxford  at  St.  James's 
Chapel ;  but  if  he  has  an  account  of  the  yacht's  being 
sooner  than  that  at  Chester  he  must  go :  in  a  week's 
time  we  may  be  at  a  certainty.  My  heart  bounced  for 
joy  at  the  news  of  your  good  house,'  pray  God  give  you 
health  and  every  blessing  to  enjoy  it !  I  shall  have  a 
great  deal  of  lumber  that  will  do  for  your  garrets  or 
nurseries,  so  don't  be  hasty  in  furnishing  till  I  talk  to 
you  about  it. 


Semele  was  given  at  Coyent  Garden  during  the  Lent  of  1744.  The 
Oeneral  Advertiser  of  the  10th  February,  1744,  adds,  in  announcing  it, 
'  After  the  manner  of  an  oratorio."  It  was  again  performed  in  the  December 
of  the  same  year. 

'  Madame  Duparc,  commonly  called  La  Franoesina,  arrived  in  England 
at  tne  end  of  1736.  On  the  18th  of  November,  1736,  she  is  named  as  one  of 
a  company  who  sang  before  her  Majesty  at  Kensington,  and  met  with  agndous 
reception.  '*  After  which,  the  Francesdna  performed  several  dances  to  the 
entire  satisfaction  of  the  Court." 

»  Welsbom,  (or  Wellesboume,)  near  Stratford-on-Avon,  Warwickshire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  255 

Our  cousin  Foley  is  very  well,  I  drank  tea  with  her 
yesterday  the  sixth  day,  and  she  was  so  pert  and  well 
that  every  moment  I  was  forced  to  silence  her.  She  has 
got  a  very  pretty  little  girl,  and  the  boy  is  well  now.  I 
have  had  a  number  of  visitors — a  load  upon  my  spirits, 
for  I  must  dispatch  them  all  before  I  leave  London,  or  I 
shall  be  abused  for  incivility.  I  have  not  yet  been  with 
Lady  Grranville,  but  the  young  ones  have  all  been  here 
and  the  Countess  herself.  Donnellan  is  confined  with  a 
bad  cold.  The  Sutton  house  very  well,  I  was  there  last 
night.  Miss  Charlotte  Pulteney,  who  had  lost  her  voice 
for  seven  months,  of  a  sudden  has  recovered  it.  Hair- 
cutter,  hosier,- visitors,  and  twenty  fiddle  faddles  have  in- 
terrupted me.     Tours  for  ever. 

D.P.  and  I  join  in  duty,  love,  and  service.  I  hope 
I  shall  see  Mr.  Dewes  as  soon  as  he  comes  to  town. 

From  the  commencement  of  this  letter,  it  appears  that  Mrs. 
Dewefl  bad  communicated  a  proposal  of  Mr.  Granville's,  that  Mrs. 
Delany  should  visit  him  while  Dr.  Delany  went  to  Ireland ;  and 
the  joy  with  which  it  was  hailed  clearly  proved  that  she  had  not 
expected  it :  whilst  the  reply  expressing  Dr.  Delany's  hope,  that 
he  should  not  be  an  unwelcome  guest  if  he  dropped  her  at  Calwich 
on  his  way  to  Ireland,  proved  that  he  had  not  been  mentioned. 
The  affection  as  well  as  the  dtityy  practically  evinced  by  Mary 
Grranville  from  her  earliest  years  to  her  relations,  was  as  uncommon 
for  any  age  as  it  was  exemplary,  and  at  this  period  of  her  history, 
her  brother's  society  was  of  less  importance  to  her  than  it  had  ever 
been,  and  for  the  first  time  in  their  lives  she  had  had  a  serious 
difference  with  him — ^yet  with  genuine  good  feeling  she  accepted 
the  first  advances  ho  made,  though  with  delicate  tact  she  intimated, 
that  if  she  came  Dr.  Delany  would  be  with  her  on  his  road  to 
Ireland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


256  LIFE  AND  CORKESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Deives. 

Clarges  Street,  28tih  Jan.  1743-4. 

I  must  begin  with  telling  you  Mrs.  Fortescue's  ^  letter 
was  sent  to  her  in  the  country ;  when  I  see  Lady  West- 
moreland, (which  oh  shame  for  me  I  have  not  yet  done  !) 
I  will  ask  if  she  knows  anything  of  it,  and  I  ask  your 
pardon  for  not  mentioning  this  to  you  before.  I  cannot 
confirm  what  I  said  to  you  in  my  last,  for  as  D.D.  has 
not  yet  had  any  account  of  the  yatch,  and  that  we  sup- 
pose it  waits  for  the  Duke  of  Devonshire,  it  is  very  likely 
he  will  not  be  able  to  have  it,  and  he  has  promised  me 
not  to  venture  in  any  other  ship.  If  his  journey  is  post- 
poned, mine  must  be  so  too,  and  the  weather  and  roads 
are  desperately  bad  at  present ;  but  still  I  can  say  nothing 
till  we  hear  from  Ireland,  and  I  now  almost  wish  I  had 
not  mentioned  coming  so  soon  to  Calwich  for  fear  I  should 
not  be  able  to  accomplish  it.  Dr.  Bamber  was  with  me 
yesterday,  I  sent  for  him  to  ask  him  about  your  lame- 
ness, (for  I  am,  thank  God,  very  well) ;  he  says  it  will  be 
of  no  bad  consequence,  and  if  you  had  immediately  applied 
vinegar,  and  kept  your  bed  one  week,  it  would  have  saved 
you  a  great  deal  of  trouble  ;  that  the  swelling  is  nothing 
but  the  effect  of  weakness,  and  is  very  common  after  such 
an  accident :  he  advises  one  ounce  of  Castille  soap  dis- 
solved in  half  a  pint  of  camphorated  spirits  of  wine,  rub 
your  ancle  very  well  with  it  in  the  moriiing,  and  roll  it 
with  a  gentle  bandage,  not  too  tight ;  and  you  must  not 
walk  nor  keep  your  leg  down  so  long  as  the  swelling 
continues.  He  recommends  rest  more  than  any  applica- 
tion, and  lying  abed  long  in  the  morning — a  prescription 

*  Miss  Wesley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  257 

iffell  suited  to  this  weather,  and  easily  followed.    Dr.  Bamber 
desires  his  compliments  to  my  brother  and  you. 

Since  ^  I  came  to  town  I  have  not  made  one  visit 
but  to  Mends  that  are  confined — Mr.  Montague  with  the 
gout,  Mrs.  Toley  lying  in,  Donnellan  with  a  cold.  To- 
day we  are  to  dine  at  Mr.  Southwell's,  and  as  I  must  dress 
I  shall  make  a  few  visits  in  the  afternoon,  for  I  have  a 
dreadM  long  list  upon  my  hands.  I  am  sure  Calwich 
is  the  most  comfortable  of  all  places  for  you  at  this  time. 
I  have  not  been  able  yet  to  go  to  Northend;  poor 
Sir  John  complains  sadly  of  this  weather.  I  sent  there, 
yesterday.  I  have  not  dared  to  venture  into  the  Ciiy, 
for  it  has  snowed  with  us  three  days  without  inter- 
mission, and  I  can  hardly  hold  my  pen.  Mrs.  Toley  is 
very  weU. 

I  thought  to  have  wrote  you  a  long  comfortable  letter, 
but  I  find  that's  impossible,  so  take  ^\higgledy piggledy  as 
I  can  scrawl  it. 

Yowr  comet.  What  is  your  comet  f  Ovrs  appears 
considerably  larger  than  a  star  of  the  first  magnitude, 
with  a  train  800  miles  long,  and  myriads  of  stars  for  its 
pages  1  I  have  heard  of  no  astronomical  remarks  on  it, 
only  that  it  is  "  going  to  fetch  fire  at  the  swn,"  and  will 
return  to  us  again  much  more  glorious  than  it  is  at 
present.  Pray  do  not  let  my  paltry  chair  interfere  with 
your  more  important  bed,  which  I  hope  you  will  finish 
as  fast  as  you  can ;  your  hangings  must  be  brown  and 
white  flowers,  and  ought  to  be  the  same  pattern  as  your 
bed;  if  you  can  let  me  have ^ the  pattern  I  will  consult 
the  artist  here  about  it. 

The  bed  here  alluded  to  is  probably  one  which  the  Editor  re- 
members to  have  seen  at  Wellesboume  as  a  chUd :  it  was  the 
VOL.  II.  8 


Digitized  by 


Google 


258  LIFE  AND  OORBESFONDENCE 

joint  woriL  of  Mm  Debmy  and  Mrs.  Dewes;  the  ground  was 
nankeen,  wodced  all  OTer  with  most  beautiful  patteros  designed 
separately  bj  Mrs.  Delan j  for  eadi  part  The  patterns  were  leaves 
united  bj  bows  of  ribbcHi,  cut  out  in  white  linen  and  sewed  down  with 
different  varieties  of  knotting  in  white  thread — which  gave  relief, 
and  light,  and  shade.     ^  The  artist  here^  was  probably  hendf. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Claiges  Street,  7  Feb.  1743-4. 

Mt  dearest  Sister, 

I  wish  my  letter  had  had  warmth  enongh  to  have 
strengthened  and  thawed  yonr  fingers,  then  I  might  have 
had  a  longer  letter  than  yonr  last ;  but  I  have  no  reason 
to  complain  since  I  am  so  happy  as  to  warm  yonr  heart : 
I  leave  the  sun  to  do  the  rest,  and  hope  soon  he  will  be 
powerful  enough  to  drive  away  the  chilling  firost.  Many 
things  concur  now  to  keep  ns  in  town.  D.D.  has 
settled  his  affairs  in  Ireland  for  the  present,  and  will 
escape  the  dismal  journey  he  had  once  thought  of 
taking.  The  Archbishop  of  CasheP  is  dead,  and  it 
would  not  be  prudent  in  him  to  leave  this  part' of  the 
world  jnst  as  the  Dnke  of  Devonshire  is  coming ;  now 
there  is  a  fair  opportunity  for  friends  to  act. 

The  long-wished-for  sermons  are  in  the  press.  Twelve 
are  corrected ;  there  are  five  more  to  look  over :  I  be- 
lieve they  will  be  out  in  a  month.  D.D.  preached  a 
sermon  that  I  think  would  have  pleased  you  last  Sunday 
at  May  Fair  Chapel,  on  Friendship  and  the  Love  of  one's 
Country.  To-morrow  he  preaches  for  the  Bishop  of 
Oxford  at  St.  James's  Church.     You  desired  me  an  age 


*  Theophilus  Bolton,  Chancellor  of  St.  Patrick's,  and  Vicar  General  of  the 
dioceae  of  Dublin,  was  made  Bishop  of  Clonfert,  in  1722,  translated  to  Elphin, 
in  1724,  and  to  the  Archbishopric  of  Cashel,  in  1730 ;  and  died  in  1744. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  259 

ago  to  send  you  a  pattern  for  crockets,  (?)  and  I  have  been 
80  negligent  as  not  to  do  it,  but  will  bring  it  when  I  am 
so  happy  as  to  come  to  you.  I  have  not  yet  got  silks, 
or  worsteds,  or  answer  from  Mrs.  Shuttleworth ;  the 
weather  has  been  so  cold  I  have  not  dared  to  go  into 
the  City. 

As  to  pasting  paper,  I  use  flour  boiled  in  water  as 
smooth  as  it  can  be  boiled,  and  paste  both  the  papers 
very  evenly  that  are  to  be  pasted  together.  My  cold  is 
gone  now,  but  my  careful  guardian  would  not  suffer  me 
to  make  any  visits  as  long  as  the  frost  and  cold  weather 
lasts,  so  that  my  debts  double  and  treble  upon  me. 
Where  is  Mr.  Dewes  ?  I  have  been  in  hopes  of  seeing 
him  every  day  last  week.  I  hope  he  is  well  and  that  I 
shall  see  him  soon.  I  saw  Mrs.  Carey  yesterday  in  deep 
mourning  for  Mrs.  Fairfax;  she  enquired  much  after 
you,  but  more  after  my  brother.  Lady  Westmoreland, 
Lady  Cobham,^  Miss  Granville,  Mrs.  Ciaverin,  Mr.  Bate- 
man,  made  up  the  number  of  my  visitants.  To-day  tKe 
Missed  Granville  dine  here,  and  Mr.  Grattan,  an  Irish 
gentleman. 

We  have  been  alarmed  about  the  Brest  fleet,  nor  are 
we  yet  satisfied  what  their  designs  are ;  it  is  thought  by 
most  people  that  they  are  going  to  the  West  Indies,  but 
reported  that  their  design  is  to  join  Admiral  Torres  to 
guard  their  gaUeons  home.  Lord  Cholmondely  is  to 
succeed  the  Duke  of  Devonshire.^  I  have  seen  the  old 
Countess  but  once  since  I  came  to  town.     If  the  wea- 


*  Anne,  daughter  of  Edmnnd  Halaej,  Esq.,  married  Sir  Richard  Temple, 
created  in  1718  Viaoonnt  and  Baron  Gobham. 

'  The  Earl  of  Ohesterfiold  Hucoeeded  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  as  Lord  Lieu- 
tenant of  Ireland,  in  1745. 

8   2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


260  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

ther  grows  wanner  I  propose  going  to  Court  next  Friday. 
Lady  Egmont  is  better  ;^  she  has  been  in  a  great  deal  of 
danger. 

Drapers,  hatters,  tailors,  and  a  long  visit  from  Don- 
nellan  have  cut  my  time  so  short  this  morning,  that  I  fear 
I  shall  hardly  have  time  to  fill  this  sheet  of  paper;  but 
I'll  go  and  dress  to  be  ready  for  my  company,  and  give 
you  all  the  time  that  remains.  Now  I  am  come  again, 
but  can  add  but  little  more.  Semele  is  to  be  performed 
next  Friday ;  D.D.  subscribes  for  me,  and  I  hope  not  to 
miss  one  of  the  charming  oratorios,  except  when  I  give 
up  my  ticket  to  him 

I  think  poor  Mrs.  Percival  in  a  very  declining  way  ; 
she  looks  iU  and  complains  often,  but  can  play  at  cards 
and  visit;  Donnellan  has  got  abroad  again.  Last  Satur- 
day I  went  to  Northend,  and  think  Sir  J.  Stanley  much 
the  sam6  as  when  I  saw  him  last ;  he  asked  me  when  there 
was  hopes  of  his  seeing  my  brother,  which  was  a  question 
I  could  not  answer ;  he  spoke  of  him  with  great  tenderness 
to  D.D. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  has  got  Sigismunda  from 
him  (Sir  J.  Stanley).  He  said  it  was  so  shocking  a  pic- 
ture he  could  not  bear  it  in  his  sight,  and  I  carried  it 
from  him  to  the  Duchess,  who  received  it  with  great 
joy.  She  has  new  painted  her  dressing-room,  hung  it 
with  green,  and  turned  out  the  lumbering  chest  of  drawers. 
It  is  quite  spruce  and  well,  and  so  is  she,  and  in  much 
better  spirits  than  when  she  left  Bulstrode.  My  com- 
pany are  at  my  door.     Adieu. 

1  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Philip  Parker  A'Morley,  Bart.,  married, 
in  1710,  Sir  John  Percival,  who  in  April,  1715,  was  created  Baton  Percival, 
and  in  November,  1733,  Earl  of  Egmont. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Jos^'ph  Bn?wn.  s-j: 


'mif^\^.(^.l^W.R'\\'  v't^WlL' l^!]n:'-lU^C^'  C^;^^KP,1^•^^„ 


'^^»V^  '-^'^i    •'  '^      ••  ■   •'     "     ■    ■    '  '  Digitized  by  Google 


Digitized  by 


Googlef 


OF  MKS.  DELANY.  261 

The  Sigismunda  alluded  to  is  in  the  possession  of  the  Editor ;  it 
is  painted  by  Mrs.  Delany,  and  is  one  of  the  finest  crayon  pictures 
ever  seen.  Sir  Joshua  Beynolds  was  so  astonished  at  its  force,  that 
he  said  his  eyes  would  not  allow  him  to  believe  it  was  crayon ; 
on  which  Mrs.  Delany  had  the  glass  taken  off^  that  he  might 
examine  it  closely.  It  still  retains  its  fine  colouring  as  well  as  its 
exquisite  finishing.  It  is  believed  to  have  been  copied  fix)m  the 
Sigismunda  in  the  collection  of  Sir  Luke  Schaube,  mentioned  by 
Horace  Walpole  as  at  Clumber,  and  as  being  attributed  to  Correggio, 
though  in  reality  painted  by  Furini.  Sigismunda  is  bending  over 
a  vessel  on  which  lies  the  heart  of  Guiscard. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Feb.  11th,  1743-4. 

In  return  for  my  dearest  sister's  last  charming  letter 
I  can  only  send  her  my  hasty  thanks,  for  I  am  but  just 
returned  from  Northend,  and  the  clock  has  struck  two. 
Our  disappointment  in  not  meeting,  I  believe,  was  equal ; 
but  on  many  accounts  it  is  very  well  D.D.  did  not  go 
as  he  proposed :  had  he  been  at  sea  the  time  we  had  the 
alarm  about  the  French  fleet  I  should  have  been  sadly 
terrified,  and  now  it  is  necessary  for  him  to  wait  the  Duke 
of  Devonshire's  arrival,  as  he  cannot,  I  think,  fail  of  the 
promotion  which  he  has  so  long  had  a  title  to. 

Last  Thursday  we  dined  in  A.  Street^  by  invitation, 
and  were  most  courteously  received,  and  a  positive 
assuranee  given  of  their  interest  on  this  occasion;  his 
sincerity  will  soon  be  put  to  the  test,  and  only  waits  the 
Duke  of  Devonshire's  coming  over,  which  is  deferred  for 
some  time  on  account  of  the  Brest  fleet,  but  I  suppose  he 
will  be  over  some  time  in  March.      My  cold  is  now 


*  Arlington  street,  (Lord  Carteret's.) 


Digitized  by 


Google 


262  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

perfectly  well.  I  was  yesterday  to  hear  Semele ;  it  is 
a  delightfiil  piece  of  music.  Mrs.  DonneUan  desires  her 
particular  compliments  to  all  6txf  to  my  brother ;  she  bids 
me  say  "  she  loses  half  her  pleasure  in  Mr.  Handel's 
music  by  his  not  being  here  to  talk  over  the  particular 
passages/'  There  is  a  four-part  song  that  is  delightfully 
pretty ;  Francesina  is  extremely  improved,  her  notes 
are  more  distinct^  and  there  is  something  in  her  run- 
ning-divisions that  is  quite  surprizing.  She  was  much 
applauded,  and  the  house  full,  though  not  crowded ;  I 
believe  wrote  my  brother  word  that  Mr.  Handel  and  the 
Prince  had  quarrelled,  which  I  am  sorry  for.  H^del  says 
the  Prince  is  quite  out  of  his  good  graces  I  there  was  no 
disturbance  at  the  play-house,  and  the  Goths  were  not  so 
very  absurd  as  to  declare,  in  a  public  maimer,  their  dis- 
approbation of  such  a  composer.  Mr.  Dewes  I  understand 
will  be  in  town  to-night,  and  I  hope  he  will  dine  with 
us  to-morrow ;  I  shall  then  talk  abundantly  of  Calwich 
and  Welsbome  ;  I  think  Lord  North's  is  about  eight  miles 
from  thence. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  has  had  a  cold  and  kept 
home ;  I  am  to  go  to  her  this  afternoon,  but  cannot  stay 
long,  for  J)  J),  has  got  a  very  bad  cold,  and  I  shall  not 
care  to  leave  him  long,  but  he  will  make  me  go  as  I  had 
promised.  If  my  visiting  you  at  Welsbome,  and  being 
busy  in  settling  you  there,  will  add  to  your  eagerness  and 
pleasure  of  taking  possession,  I  see  no  reason  why  you 
should  not  indulge  that  thought.  I  am  sure  I  think  of 
seeing  you  there  with  vast  satis&ction,  and  hope  to 
spend  many  happy  hours  there  with  you,  but  shall 
eapect  my  visits  to  be  returned. 

Alas !  the  poor  grotto !  I  grieve  for  its  downfal,  but  re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANT.  263 

joioe  that  nothing  was  buried  in  its  ruins  but  the  Windsor 
chairs.  The  particulars  of  Miss  Lewson?  Surely  I  sent  you 
a  long  story  about  her :  as  how  she  fell  ill^  and  in  the  midst 
of  her  pains  told  the  Duchess  of  Bedford  (who  they  say  was 
ignorant  of  her  condition  till  that  moment),  that  she  had 
been  married  a  year  to  Lord  John  Sackville.^  A  wretched 
couple  I  fear  they  will  prove ;  he  is  ill-natured  and  a 
man  of  no  principle,  and  she  has  shewn  the  world  that 
she  has  little  prudence.  I  was  agreeably  surprized  with 
Mr.  Dewes  dining  with  us  to-day,  he  is  very  well.  The 
post  will  wait  no  longer ;  my  .humble  duty  to  my  mother 
and  love  to  my  brother ;  best  compliments  from  D.D. 

I  am  ever  yours. 

Mrs,  Ddawy  to  Mm.  Dewes, 

16  Feb.  1748^. 

Don't  scold,  my  dear  sister,  that  I  begin  on  small 
paper,  but  I  fear  it  is  all  I  shall  be  able  to  fill  this  post. 
I  am  very  sorry  for  poor  Mrs.  Hudleston,  and  wish  we 
may  be  able  to  get  the  charity  money  for  her.  D.D.  is 
not  so  well  acquainted  with  the  people  who  must  grant 
that  petition  as  to  be  able  to  serve  her,  and  the  only 
friend  I  could  apply  to  has  done  so  much  in  that  way  for 
the  Griffiths  family  (which  is  Dr.  Middleton),  that  I 
don't  know  how  to  apply  to  him  for  more.  The  first 
leisure  day  I  have,  I  will  call  on  Mrs.  Underwood,  but 
now  my  hands  and  head  grow  fall  of  business,  and  I 
have  so  much  to  settle  that  I  am  afraid  of  forgetting  what 
I  undertake  to  do  for  other  people. 

I  have  bought  your  worsted  and  silk  for  my  brother's 

■  Lord  Johu  Philip  Sackville,  second  son  of  the  1st  Dnke  of  Dorset,  married 
Lady  Fnmoes  Leyeson  Gower,  fourth  daughter  of  John,  Ist  Earl  Gower. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


264  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

chair  that  you  are  to  work ;  pray  let  me  know,  how  and 
when  I  must  send  it.  I  could  not  meet  with  any  work- 
women that  would  do  it  under  two  guineas  and  a  half. 
The  materials  for  working  come  to  eighteen  shillings. 
I  have  matched  the  colours  to  the  work  that  is  done ; 
.  you  must  fancy  them  as  you  think  proper.  I  heg  you 
not  to  be  under  any  concern  for  my  sky.  I  would  have 
it  clear  of  clouds,  the  pink  silk  must  join  the  hill,  and  the 
blue  silk  next, — about  one  third  silk  the  other  the  blue 
worsted.  Mr.  Parker  dined  here  yesterday.  The  Duke  of 
Devonshire  is  expected  soon;  when  he  comes, the  Bishopric 
will  be  settled ;  in  Ireland  (by  report)  D.D.  is  named  for 
Dromore.  We  cannot  guess  at  our  time  of  going,  as  it 
depends  on  this  affair,  but  he  will  at  least  finish  the  year 
in  England  that  he  took  his  licence  out  for.  You  may 
imagine  how  much  I  talk'd  of  Calwich  and  Welsboume 
with  Mr.  Dewes :  he  is  delighted  with  Calwich,  and  says 
he  had  no  notion  my  brother  could  have  improved  it  so 
much  in  so  short  a  time,  but  with  the  genius  for  im- 
provements that  he  has,  and  such  industry  to  execute  his 
scheme,  and  so  much  time  as  he  has  allowed  himself  (alas!) 
in  the  country,  what  may  he  not  do  ?  Though  I  often 
think  with  pleasure  of  the  happy  society  at  Calwich,  I 
cannot  help  wishing  another  year  than  this  had  been 
chosen  for  it.  The  loss  of  my  brother's  company  this 
winter  has  been  an  irreparable  loss  to  me  ;  I  cau't  help 
flattering  myself  with  the  hopes  of  his  eloping  from  you. 
Forgive  me,  but  I  am  not  used  to  disguise  my  hopes  and 
fears  from  you. 

The  head-board,  tester,  and  all  the  inside  of  the  bed 
must  be  worked ;  my  noddle  has  thought  of  a  pattern,  but 
till  we  meet  I  cannot  fix  on  anything.   Did  I  not  tell  you. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  265 

my  dear  sister,  that  I  had  laid  by  Summer  *  for  your  new 
house;  it  is  a  picture  you  used  to  like.  As  soon  as  I  am 
settled  in  Belvifle  I  shall  take  to  oil-painting,  and  if  I 
can  perform  tolerably,  will  send  you  a  copy  of  my  father 
and  mother  s  picture. 

Feby.  16, 1744. 

P.S. — ^Yesterday  the  King  sent  a  message"  to  the  two 
houses  to  let  them  know  the  Pretender*s  son  was  in  Prance, 
and  that  they  had  undoubted  intelligence  the  French 
design  an  invasion  with  the  Brest  fleet,  and  it  is  suspected  a 
great  many  disaffected  people  here  are  ready  to  join  them. 
What  all  this  will  come  to  (rod  knows,  but  I  pray  for 


Mn,  Delcmy  to  Mrs,  Deufes, 

Glarges  Street,  21  Feb.  1744. 

I  think,  my  dearest  sister,  if  we  are  not  happy  it  must 
be  our  oum  faults ;  we  have  both  chosen  worthy,  sensible 
Mends,  and  if  we  act  reasonably  by  them  and  ourselves, 
we  may  hope  for  as  much  happiness  as  this  mortal  state 
will  afford:  thorns  we  must  all  find,  but  if  Providence 
allows  us  roses  to  our  thorns  we  ought  to  be  thankful, 
and  make  the  best  of  their  sweets.  You'll  say  I  am  in  a 
very  moralizing  way ;  and  for  fear  of  dulness  I  will  quit 
my  own  thoughts  and  talk  of  people  and  things  as  they 


>  Summer, — This  beautiful  picture  in  crayons,  painted  by  Mrs.  Delany, 
from  Rosalba,  ia  in  the  Editor's  possession.  The  original  picture  is  now  (1859) 
in  the  Louvre. 

*  ^  Eis  Majesty's  Message  "*  to  the  two  Houses  of  Parliament,  communicating 
the  intelligence  that  ''the  eldest  son  of  the  Pretender  to  his  crown  had  ar- 
riyed  in  France,  and  that  preparations  are  making  there  to  invade  this  king- 
dom,** was  delivered  on  the  15th  February,  1744. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


266  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

go.  Your  letter  though  small  in  size  was  great  in  value,  as 
the  least  mark  of  your  love  and  goodness  towards  me  will 
ever  be,  and  I  live  in  hopes  that  next  post  will  bring  me  a 
folio,  or  an  equivalent  to  one.  The  warm  gentle  weather  we 
now  have  must  be  an  advantage  to  my  brother's  works, 
and  make  Calwich  bloom ;  my  love  and  tender  wishes 
attend  him  and  all  his  designs,  and  my  most  affectionate 
duty  my  dear  mama ;  D.D.  is  most  warmly  devoted  to 
all,  and  wishes  nothing  more  than  to  amvince  my  friends 
of  his  sincere  and  respectful  regard  to  them.  He  has 
had  a  bad  cold  (colds  I  may  say),  for  he  no  sooner  lost 
one  than  he  got  another,  but  thank  Grod  he  is  well 
again,.  He  preach'd  last  Sunday  at  Chelsea ;  we  dined 
at  Dr.  Elsmore's,^  and  made  a  visit  to  the  Coles  in  the 
afternoon,  who  enquired  much  after  you.  Captain  Cole 
is  much  concerned  that  his  friend  has  not  performed  his 
promise  yet  to  my  brother's  exciseman,  but  will  not  fidl  of 
putting  him  in  mind.  I  have  a  sad  tale  to  tell,  but  Dick 
is  lost,  he  has  been  cried  and  advertized  to  no  purpose ; 
he  walked  off  above  a  fortnight  ago,  and  Betty  is  in  a 
terrible  taking  about  him,  but  she  apprehends  he  went 
off  mad,  for  sixteen  dogs  in  the  neighbourhood  were  bit 
and  hanged  at  the  time  she  missed  him.  The  rest  of  the 
animals  are  all  well.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  Mr. 
Dewes  very  well  last  Sunday  evening,  when  we  all  met  at 
Mr.  Percival's. 

Semele  is  charming ;  the  more  I  hear  it  the  better  I 
like  it,  and  as  I  am  a  subscriber  I  shall  not  fail  one  night. 

1  Dr.  Sloane  Elamere  was  instituted  to  the  rectory  of  Chelsea  after  the  death 
of  Dr.  King,  in  February,  1747,  and  died  in  1766.  He  left  behind  him  a  voluzne 
of  sermons  to  be  published  for  the  benefit  of  the  Girls'  Charity  School,  of 
which  benevolent  institution  he  was  the  original  founder.  Dr.  Elsmere  was  a 
relation  of  Sir  Hans  Sloane ;  in  1762  he  married  Miss  Cotes. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  267 

But  it  being  a  profane  story  D.D.  does  not  think  it 
proper  for  him  to  go ;  but  when  Josepji  or  Samson  is 
performed  I  shall  persuade  him  to  go — ^you  know  Iww 
much  he  delights  in  music.  They  say  Samson  is  to  be 
next  Friday,  for  Semele  has  a  strong  party  against  it, 
vk.  the  fine  ladies,  petit  maitres,  and  ignoramus's.  AU 
the  opera  people  are  enraged  at  Handel,  but  Lady  Cob- 
ham,  Lady  Westmoreland,  and  Lady  Chesterfield  never 
fail  it. 

Now  I  know  you  are  impatient  to  have  some  account 
of  bishoprics,  but  I  can  give  you  none.  We  dined  yes- 
terday in  Arlington  Street,  and  Lord  C.  spid  there  was 
some  demur  about  the  Archbishopric.  Price  Bishop  of 
Meath  and  Buscoe  Bishop  of  Limerick  were  both  named, 
but  as  there  is  five  thousand  pounds  to  pay  it  made  it 
not  quite  so  desirable;  and  I  am  apt  to  think  that  Meath 
will  be  the  Archbishop,  Limerick  Bishop  of  Meath,  and 
your  friend  Bishop  of  Limerick,  but  this  cannot  be  settled 
or  known  till  my  Lord  Lieutenant  comes  over,  and  he 
camiot  come  over  till  we  have  passed  the  storm  that 
threatens  us. 

There  was  a  report  yesterday  that  a  captain  of  a  ship 
was  come  with  the  joyful  news  of  Admiral  Mathews 
having  gained  an  entire  victory  over  the  French  and 
Spaniards  ;  whilst  we  were  at  dinner  yesterday  a  message 
came  fi'om  Lord  Oxford  to  Lord  Carteret  to  know  if  there 
were  any  truth  in  the  report.  He  knew  nothing  of  it 
then,  but  it  is  very  probable,  the  French  having  stopped 
the  mail  at  Calais,  which  looks  as  if  they  had  news  they 
were  unwilling  we  should  know ;  as  to  the  Brest  fleet 
the  last  account  was  of  their  being  certainly  at  Dunkirk ; 
and  Sir  John  Norris  has  orders  to  pursue  them.  There 
are  some  infidels  that  suppose  all  this  a  ministerial  plot ; 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC  , 


268  LIFfi  AND  CORl^ESPONDENCE 

I  suspend  my  judgment,  for  such  contradictions  arise 
every  hour  that  it  is  not  possible  to  guess  at  the  truth. 
Lord  C.  does  make  a  great  fuss  with  Daisy/  and  some  of 
the  family  are  alarmed  at  it  and  treat  her  very  differently 
from  what  they  used  to  do,  and  lam  in  a  fright  about  it, 
for  she  can  hardly  refuse  it,  and  yet  I  think  it  would  not 
be  a  happy  establishment.  The  son  *  makes  but  a  poor 
figure,  and  is  not  a  fiivourite  with  any  of  the  family.  I 
have  not  seen  Sir  J.  Stanley  since  I  wrote  last,  but  I  hear 
he  is  much  as  he  was ;  he  certainly  has  less  pain  and 
looks  much  better. 

I  have  just  finished  a  picture  which  I  own  pleases  me 
the  best  of  any  I  have  done ;  'tis  from  Paul  Veronese — 
St.  Catherine,  a  head  with  one  hand,  as  big  as  the  life.  I 
believe  my  brother  remembers  the  picture.  I  have 
finished  it  as  high  as  possible  for  me  to  finish,  because  it 
will  be  a  sort  of  study  for  me  when  I  can't  get  better 
pictures  to  copy.  I  went  last  Saturday  morning  with  the 
Duchess  of  Leeds  to  see  Mrs.  Waters,  a  very  ingenious 
obliging  woman,  a  worthy  daughter  of  a  very  unworthy 
mother  (Lady  A.),  of  whom  we  have  heard  many  cruel 
stories ;  and  as  she  lived  so  she  dies,  for  she  has  settled 
all  her  fortune  yr^wi  her  daughter  upon  my  Lord  Delawarr 
and  his  femily .  Yesterday  as  my  Lord  Winchelsea '  was 
going  to  Court  the  glass  was  up  and  his  blind  eyes  did 


>  The  Honble.  Eliz.  Granville,  the  Maid  of  Honour. 

«  Robert  Carteret,  afterwards  2nd  Earl  Granville.  Writing  after  the  second 
marriage  of  Lord  Carteret,  Horace  Walpole  says  of  his  family :  ^  His  only  son 
is  gone  mad :  about  a  fortnight  ago  he  was  at  the  Duke  of  Bedford's,  and  as 
much  in  his  few  senses  as  ever.  At  6  o*clock  in  the  morning  he  waked  the 
Duke  and  Duchess  all  bloody,  and  with  the  lappet  of  his  coat  held  up  full  of 
ears,  he  had  been  in  the  stable  and  cropped  all  the  horses." 

•  Daniel,  7th  Earl  of  Winchelsea,  who  filled  the  offices  successively  of  Comp- 
troller of  the  Household,  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  and  President  of  the  Conncil. 
He  married  first,  in  1729,  Lady  Francis  Feilding,  daughter  of  Basil,  Earl  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  269 

not  perceive  it,  so  that  bowing  to  somebody,  and  the  coach 
giving  a  great  jolt  at  the  same  time,  popped  his  head 
quite  through,  and  has  cut  his  forehead  violently ;  it  is 
well  he  did  not  lose  an  eye.  Lady  Dysart  is  now  in  good 
spirits  and  is  as  very  fine  a  lady  as  ever. 

I  have  been  for  some  time  in  an  odd  situation  about 
an  qSsoi  that  I  have  had  in  my  head  and  at  my  heart. 
Our  dear  worthy  Violet's^  circumstances  are  such,  that  if 
if  it  were  now  possible  to  settle  her  well  it  would  be 
doing  a  good  action,  and  I  have  had  a  hint  given  me 
that  Mr.  GP*  near  Windsor,  has  thoughts  of  marrying,  but 
is  afiraid  of  the  fine  ladies,  and  that  it  was  not  imprac- 
ticable if  a  judicious  friend  could  be  met  with,  to  have 
her  character  given  him,  that  such  a  union  might  be 
compassed.  I  thought  of  the  B.  of  Gloucester,  who  is  the 
most  intimate  friend  the  gentleman  has.  I  sent  for  him 
told  him  frankly  my  thoughts,  and  begged  his  friendship 
and  assistance,  both  which  he  promised  me  when  an 
opportunity  offered;  but  he  feared  the  gentleman  wanted 
some  monej/y  as  the  Earl  had  not  settled  the  fortune, 
though  the  title  would  come  to  him ;  but  he  approved  of 
my  scheme,  and  said  he  would  do  all  he  could,  for  he 
thought  they  were  worthy  of  each  other,  and  he  bears 
as  good  a  character  as  she  does;  this  was  three  weeks  ago, 
and  I  have  not  heard  one  word.  I  think  you  cannot  be 
at  a  loss  to  know  who  I  mean  if  you  recollect  what  Prim- 
rose wrote  to  me  when  I  was  at  Gloucester  I  would  not 
mention  this  to  you  sooner,  in  hopes  of  having  surprized 


Denbigh,  by  whom  he  had  one  daughter,  Charlotte ;  and  secondly,  January, 
1738,  Mary,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Palmer,  by  whom  hb  had 
four  surviving  daughters.    The  Earl  died  in  1769. 
'  The  Honourable  Ann  Grranville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


270  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

you  agreeably.  I  hope  my  brother  will  not  think  I  have 
taken  a  wrong  step;  the  Bishop  of  Grloucester  is  a  man 
of  so  much  honour  and  discretion  that  I  am  sure  he  may 
be  trusted,  and  no  one  else  knows  it.  Well,  now  I  have 
given  you  materials  enough  to  think  of  and  talk  over  for 
this  post,  so  adieu,  my  dear  sister.  When  may  I  have 
hopes  of  seeing  my  brother  ?  We  are  now  tied  down 
till  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  comes. 

Mrs.  Waters  and  the  Duchess  of  Leeds  breakfast  with 
me,  and  are  to  look  over  my  sketches  and  drawings ; 
Violet,  Primrose,  and  Daisy  dine  with  me ;  Portlands  and 
Montagues  drink  tea  with  me;  I  go  to  the  Schaub 
assembly,  and  sup  in  Bond  Street.  Will  not  the  day  be 
meritoriously  occupied  ?  Lady  Sarah  Cowper  is  mortified 
you  do  not  write  to  her.  She  is  better,  and  was  with  me 
yesterday. 

Mrs,  Bdany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Clarges  Street,  Feby.  25th,  1743-4. 

I  must  make  use  of  your  kind  indulgence,  my  dearest 
sister,  this  post.  I  shall  hardly  have  time  to  say  a 
word,  for  I  painted  till  the  clock  struck  twelve,  and  then 
thought  to  indulge  myself  with  writing  you  a  long  letter, 
when  Sir  T.  Hanmer  came,  and  he  would  send  for  me 
down,  and  was  so  unreasonable  as  to  stay  till  past  one. 
The  Montagus  all  dine  here,  and  in  the  afternoon  the 
Duchess  of  Portland  and  Donnellan  come,  so  tiiiat  this 
present  moment  is  all  the  time  I  shall  have.  The  chairs, 
worsteds,  silks,  stufi*  for  the  bed,  seeds,  and  tincture  of 
benjamin  all  go  to  the  carrier  on  .Monday,  and  I  hope  will 
arrive  safe  at  Calwich  in  due  time.  I  am  glad  to  hear  of 
the  beautiful  verdure  of  the  pearl  fountainy  and  that  you 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  271 

have  honoured  it  with  a  visit ;  but  I  doubt  you  are  still 
lame,  and  I  hear  you  have  got  a  cold. 

There  is  a  certain  account  of  an  engagement  between 
the  united  fleets  of  Praace  and  Spain  and  Admiral 
Mathews,  to  our  advantage ;  but  the  particulars  are  not 
known,  for  the  French,  who  know  the  particulars,  wiU 
let  us  know  nothing  they  can  conceal,  and  all  the  intel- 
ligence we  can  have  must  come  through  Germany,  as 
war  with  France  is  now  declared,  that  is,  France  has  in 
effect  declared  it  by  falling  upon  our  fleet.  As  to  the 
Brest  squadron,  I  think  we  know  as  little  about  it  as  we 
did  three  weeks  ago ;  it  is  generally  thought  they  only 
meet  to  divert  and  alarm  us  that  we  may  keep  our  troops 
at  home ;  you'll  smile  at  my  entering  into  politics,  but 
now  one  must  be  dumb  or  talk  of  the  times. 

Well,  to  change  from  discord  to  harmony  I  will  shift 
my  subject,  and  teU  you  I  was  last  night  to  hear  Samson.^ 
Francescina  sings  most  of  Mrs.  Gibber's  part  and  some 
of  Mrs.  Olive's :  upon  the  whole  it  went  off  very  well,  but 
not  better  than  last  year.  Joseph,'  I  believe,  will  be 
next  Friday,  but  Handel  is  mightily  put  of  humour 
about  it,  for  Sullivan,  who  is  to  sing  Joseph,  is  a  block 
with  a  very  fine  voice,  and  Beard  has  no  voice  at  all. 
The  part  which  Francescina  is  to  have  (of  Joseph's  wife) 
will  not  admit  of  much  variety ;  but  I  hope  it  wiU  be 
weU  received ;  the  houses  have  not  been  crowded,  but 
pretty  full  every  night.     We   went  to  Northend  last 

"  Samson,  an  oratorio  by  Handel,  was  first  performed  at  the  Theatre 
Koyal  in  Covent  Garden  on  the  18th  Febniary,  1743.  It  was  performed 
ei^t  times  in  that  year,  and  twice  in  the  year  1744. 

<  Joseph  and  his  Brethren  was  written  in  August,  1743,  and  was  given  at 
Covent  Garden  during  the  Lent  of  1744.  It  was  performed  four  times  during 
that  year,  Signora  Gralli,  a  favourite  pupil  of  Handel,  made  her  debut  in 
Joseph. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


272  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Thursday  and  found  poor  Sir  John  in  great  pain ;  lie 
has  complained  very  much  this  last  week,  and  says  he 
grows  weaker,  but  I  think  he  looks  pretty  well.  He  has 
given  me  some  very  pretty  shells  for  my  works,  but  none 
fine  enough  for  my  collection ;  but  a  friend  of  D.D.  in 
the  West  Indies  has  promised  me  great  curiosities.  We 
are  stiU  ignorant  as  to  the  bishoprics,  the  grand  affidrs  of 
war  and  tumult  prevents  all  thought  of  anything  else : 
an  express  came  last  night  from  Sir  J.  Norris,  that  he 
was  within  an  hour's  sail  of  the  Brest  fleet. 

I  am  sorry  Mrs.  Duncomb  comes  to  town,  unless 
she  had  a  good  call,  for  she  will  not  meet  with  a  kind 
reception  from  the  old  Countess,  but  quite  the  contrary, 
and  as  to  the  ffreat  man,  if  his  heart  was  good  towards  her 
he  is  no7v  really  so  mucli  embarrassed  he  cannot  now  think 
of  anything  but  the  state.  Sir  Thomas  Hanmer^  is  de- 
termined to  prosecute  Tom  Hervey;  the  child,  they 
say,  is  dead  that  Tom  would  provide  for,  and  he  means 
to  impose  one  by  another  person ;  it  is  a  most  villanous 
afiair,  and  I  heartily  wish  Sir  T.  may  get  the  better  of 
his  wicked  adversary.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Hervey"  made  a 
recantation  sermon  at  St.  George's  church,  acknowledg- 
ing his  errors  and  purposing  a  thorough  reformation. 
It  was  thought  that  the  £4000  a-year  he  has  got  by  the 
death  of  Sir  Thom.  Aston  would  have  made  him  throw  off 
the  gown,  but  he  declares  he  will  not,  and  that  'tis  the 


i  Sir  Thomas  Hanmer  married,  first,  in  1698,  Isabella,  Duchess-Dowager  of 
Grafton ;  and  secondly  Elizabeth,  only  daughter  and  heir  to  Thomas  Folkes, 
Esq.,  who  eloped  with  the  Honble.  Thomas  Hervey,  second  son  of  John,  1st 
Earl  of  Bristol.     Walpole  in  1741  calls  Mr.  Hervey  "  quite  mad." 

*  The  Rouble  and  Hevd.  John  Hervey,  D.D.  fourth  son  of  John,  1st  Earl 
of  Bristol,  married  Catherine,  eldest  sister  and  heir  of  Sir  Thomas  Aston,  Bart., 
who  died  17th  February,  1744. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  273 

life  in  the  world  he  shall  choose,  and  will  follow.  Betty 
Carter  is  in  great  grief  for  her  mother.  She  had  last  post 
an  account  of  her  death,  which  was  very  sudden :  when  she 
went  to  hed  she  complained  of  a  little  cold,  in  the  night 
the  person  that  lay  with  her  heard  her  give  a  sigh,  she 
asked  her  how  she  did,  she  did  not  answer,  but  soon 
gave  another  sigh,  upon  which  the  person  that  lay  with 
her  got  up  and  found  she  was  dead !  A  happy  ending  for 
a  good  woman.  I  have  put  Mr.  Bateman  in  mind  of 
the  bracket  he  promised,  which  I  hope  to  have  soon. 
Pray  send  Mrs.  Godineau's  receipt  for  the  baked  fillet 
of  veal. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Clarges  Street,  March  1,  1743-4. 

In  vain  is  it  to  purpose  doing  anything.  I  was  as  much 
determined  to  write  my  dear  sister  a  long  letter  by  this 
post  as  ever  I  was  to  do  anything  in  my  life,  and  behold 
I  am  reduced  in  time  to  past  ten  o'clock,  but  will  say 
the  most  material  things  I  can  in  the  time.  I  am  very 
much  concerned  for  my  dear  godson,  but  hope  before 
this  reaches  you  that  his  ague  will  have  left  him.  Two 
infdUible  receipts  I  must  insert  before  I  proceed  ftirther. 

1st.  Pounded  ginger,  made  into  a  paste  with  brandy, 
spread  on  sheep's  leather,  and  a  plaister  of  it  laid  over 
the  navel. 

2ndly.  A  spider  put  into  a  goose-quill,  well  sealed  and 
secured,  and  hung  about  the  child's  neck  as  low  as  the  pit 
of  his  stomach.  Either  of  these  I  am  assured  will  ease. 
Probatum  est. 

Letters  from  Marseilles  by  a  Jew,  and  from  Admiral 

VOL.  II.  T 


Digitized  by 


Google 


274  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mathews'  agent,  have  brought  aa  acconnt  of  our  having 
gained  an  entire  victory  after  three  days'  desperate  fight, 
— such  a  fight  and  such  a  victory  as  they  say  has  not 
been  known  on  the  seas. 
The  post  bell  calls.     Adieu. 

M.  D.  &  P.  D. 

Although  the  prescription  of  the  spider  m  the  quill  will  probably 
only  create  amusement  from  its  apparent  absurdity  considered 
merely  as  an  o2i  charm,  yet  there  is  no  doubt  of  the  medicinal 
virtue  of  spiders  and  their  webs,  which  have  been  long  known  to 
the  Celtic  inhabitants  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Some  interesting 
anecdotes  and  facts  relative  to  this  subject  may  be  found  in  242nd 
number  of  Notes  and  Queries,  where  particulars  are  given  of  the 
efiicacy  of  spider's  webs  rolled  up  like  a  pill,  and  swallowed  when 
the  ague  fit  is  coming  on.  Dr.  Graham*  prescribed  spider's  webs 
for  ague  and  intermittent  fever,  and  also  named  powder  made  of 
spiders  given  for  the  ague,  and  mentions  his  knowledge  of  a  spider 
having  been  sewn  up  in  a  rag  and  worn  as  a  periapt  round  the  neck 
to  charm  away  the  ague.  This  no  doubt  arose  fix)m  the  practical 
knowledge  of  the  efiicacy  of  the  internal  administration  and  igno- 
rance of  its  medical  properties,  which  resulted  in  the  belief  that 
the  insect  (spider)  would  work  a  charm  if  hung  round  the  neck 
bodily.  The  black  spider  (Theridion)  of  Curaqoa  is  used  for  sea- 
sickness; spiders  or  cobwebs  given  on  brown  sugar  are  still  given 
in  some  agueish  localities  in  England,  and  the  great  black  bam 
spider  is  the  sort  used  for  medicine  in  Britain. 

Dr.  Donaldson  in  a  letter  in  ^'  the  Indian  Lancet,"  recommends 
the  web  of  the  common  spider  as  an  unfidling  remedy  in  certain 
fevers,  which  was  used  a  century  ago  by  the  poor  people  in  the 
fens  of  Lincolnshire,  and  by  Sir  James  M'Gregor  in  the  West 
Indies. 

The  Aranea  Diameday  the  largest  English  spider,  found  in  birch 
trees,  is  a  remedy  well  known  in  Homeopathic  medical  practice. 


"Domestic  Medicine." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  275 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Detoes, 

Clarges  Street,  6  March,  1743-4. 

It  is  impossible  for  me  not  to  be  uneasy,  when  I  know 
my  dear  little  godson  is  ill,  and  what  you  and  my  mother 
must  suffer  when  he  is  so,  though  an  ague  is  so  common  to 
little  children,  and  not  of  dangerous  consequence.  I 
hope  before  this  arrives  he  will  have  lost  every  symptom 
of  complaint,  if  not,  it  is  best  to  give  him  bark  in  the 
only  way  children  can  take  it,  which  very  seldom  fails. 
I  have  sent  a  prescription  £pom  Mrs.  Montague  and  Mr. 
Clark.  Everybody  agrees  you  should  give  the  child 
meat  now ;  he  may  eat  meat  three  times  a  week,  and 
pudding  or  panada  the  other  days.  Sometimes  sheep's 
totters,  which  are  both  innocent  and  nourishing ;  and 
make  him  to  be  jumbled  about  a  good  deal  for  fear  of 
falling  into  the  rickets,  and  throw  away  his  wormwood 
draughts,  for  they  signify  nothing  for  an  ague.  Have 
an  attention  to  him  about  worms,  which  are  the  cause 
of  most  children's  illness ;  pray  God  bless  the  dear  boy, 
and  send  you  many  years  of  joy  and  comfort  with  him ! 

And  now  having  finished  my  paragraph  about  him, 
Uke  a  good  old  fashioned  godmother,  I  leave  him  for 
this  post.  Mrs.  Duncomb  came  to  town  last  Saturday. 
I  called  on  her  on  Sunday,  she  look?  thin,  and  I  am 
afiraid  she  wiU  not  meet  with  anything  here  to  fatten  her 
up  ;  for  those  that  might  make  up  to  her  her  brother's 
unkindness  seem  not  at  all  disposed  to  serve  her. 

We  have  had  at  last  good  news  from  Admiral  Mathews, 
though  very  different  from  what  I  sent  you  before.  He 
has  beaten  the  Spaniards,  and  the  French  have  run  away. 
The   storm  we  had  on    Friday  se'nnight  stranded  12 

T  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


276  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

of  the  French  transports  at  Dunkirk,  and  lost  them  600 
men.  Sir  J.  Norris*  fleet  received  small  damage  from 
the  storm. 

Ton  must  not  expect  I  shall  lament  with  you 
my  hrother  s  leaving  Calwich,  for  I  own  sincerely  I  am 
overjoyed  at  the  thoughts  of  seeing  him.  Oh  what  a  joy  it 
would  have  been  to  have  seen  you  all  together !  We 
dined  last  Sunday  in  Arlington  Street:  prodigiously 
gracious ! 

Lady  Wescombe^  died  last  Saturday — a  six  weeks 
mourning  for  my  mother  and  three  for  us  ^  but  as  she 
is  not  known  in  Staffordshire,  I  think  it  of  no  consequence 
to  put  it  on  there.  The  Bishop  of  Gloucester  has  just 
been  with  me,  he  has  had  an  opportunity  of  talking  to 
Mr.  G.,  he  asked  him  if  he  had  ever  had  such  a  query 
proposed  to  him?  that  her  fortune  was  so  and  so,  and  her 
character  a  most  extraordinary  one  from  everybody.  The 
gentleman  agreed  she  had  an  excellent  character,  said  she 
never  had  been  mentioned  to  him,  and  made  no  objection  ; 
but  gave  no  encouragement  for  the  Bishop  to  say  more. 
Is  this  good  or  bad  ?  But  as  he  says  he  designs  marry- 
ing, and  is  a  very  reasonable  man,  and  has  no  other  person 
in  view,  the  more  he  considers  this  affiiir  the  better  he 
must  approve  of  it.  She  is  gone  out  of  town  this  morn- 
ing ;  I  wish  there  could  be  an  acquaintance  between  them, 
but  he  knows  none  of  her  friends ;   the  Bishop  of  Glou- 


'  Anna  Maria.  Calmady,  wife  of  Sir  Anthony  Weetcombe,  Bart,  was  bap- 
tized February  10, 1701.  She  was  the  only  child  and  heir  of  Josiag  Calmady 
of  Langdon,  Esq.,  and  of  his  2nd  wife  Jane  Rolt,  daughter  of  Sir  John  Kolt,.of 
Milton,  Devonshire,  Knt. :  Anna  Maria  Calmady,  married  Sir  A.  Westcombe, 
April  6, 1736.  The  order  subsequent  to  her  death  for  her  heraldic  achieve- 
ment in  the  Heralds'  College,  bears  date  March  7,  1743-4. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  277 

cester  has  promised  to  watch  and  do  all  the  service  he 
can ;  he  seems  really  to  enter  with  zeal  into  the  affair. 

Where  do  you  think  we  dine  to-day  ?  Why  truly  at 
Sir  Thomas  Hanmer  s !  In  the  evening  I  go  to  the  dear 
Dachess,  who  has  been  confined,  and  ill  with  a  cough 
and  soreness  on  her  chest  this  week  or  ten  days ;  and 
after  what  she  suffered  with  a  cough  last  year,  I  own  I 
was  greatly  alarmed  for  her.  I  dined  yesterday  at  Sir 
Bobert  Sutton's ;  poor  Lady  Sunderland  is  very  complain- 
ing, the  rest  are  all  well. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Clarges  Street,  March  10,  1743-4. 

My  dearest  sister's  last  letter  gave  me  a  great  deal  of 
pain  for  my  dear  boy,  but  a  note  Mr.  Dewes  sent 
me  this  morning  has  revived  my  spirits.  My  brother 
did  not  come  to  town  till  yesterday  at  two ;  he  is  very 
well,  though  he  was  yesterday  much  fatigued  with  the 
ways  and  weather,  yet  alert  enough  to  dress  and  go  to 
the  oratorio,  which  was  the  first  place  I  saw  him  .in.  I 
sent  to  his  house  to  beg  Jie  would  dine  with  me,  or  at 
least  come  to  me  as  soon  as  he  had  dined,  and  I  would 
carry  hun  to  the  oratorio,  but  he  would  do  neither ;  he 
came  home  with  me,  but  would  not  stay  one  moment, 
and  to-day  he  is  gone  to  Northend.  D.D,  and  I  dine 
at  Leicester  House  with  Mrs.  Claverin,  who  is  in  waiting ; 
the  Percivals  meet  us  there.  Yesterday  Mr.  Dewes  dined 
with  us ;  he  made  my  brother  a  visit  in  his  way,  and 
they  are  to  meet  on  business  next  Monday.  I  went 
yesterday  morning  into  the  City  to  buy  mysell*  a  white 


Digitized  by 


Google 


278  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE      ' 

satin  manto  and  petticoat,  but  did  not  meet  with  one  to 
my  mind,  so  I  shall  wait  some  days  longer.  I  have  now 
two  cousin-germans  to  mourn  for — ^Lady  Wescombe  and 
Sir  William  Carew,^  who  died  last  Monday. 

Did  I  write  you  word  of  our  Princess's  being  in  town  ? 
Yes,  I  did ;  and  you  knew  it  before  me  by  the  letter  you 
enclosed  for  her,  which  I  delivered  safely  to  her  last 
Wednesday :  she  and  Lord  Belfield^  dined  here.  You 
remember  his  imfortunate  story  ?  He  is  a  sort  of  son-in- 
law  of  mine ;  his  name  is  Eochford ;  his  first  wife  was 
the  eldest  Miss  Tennison,  his  second,  my  Lord  Moles- 
worth's  daughter.  He  discovered  an  intrigue,  and  they 
say  he  has  come  to  England  in  search  of  him,  to  kill  liim 
wherever  he  meets  him ;  but  I  hope  his  resentment  will 
cool,  and  not  provoke  him  to  so  desperate  an  action,  and 
he  does  not  appear  to  have  any  such  rash  design,  but  is 
more  cheerful  and  composed  than  one  could  expect  him 
to  be ;  he  is  very  well-bred,  and  very  well  in  his  person 
and  manner ;  his  wife  is  locked  up  in  one  of  his  houses 
in  Ireland,  with  a  strict  guard  over  her,  and  they  say  he 
is  so  miserable  as  to  love  her  even  now ;  she  is  extremely 
handsome,  and  has  many  personal  accomplishments. 

"  A  fairer  person  lost  not  lieaven ;  she  seem'd 
For  dignity  oompos'd  and  high  exploit : 
But  all  was  false  and  hollow.** 

I  have  no  public  news.     It  is  now  said  that  there  has 


*  Died,  March,  1744,  Sir  William  Carew,  of  Antony,  in  Cornwall,  Bart., 
one  of  the  knights  of  the  shire  for  that  county.  He  was  succeeded  by  his  only 
son,  Sir  Coventry  Carew,  Bart. 

«  Robert  Rochfort,  created  Lord  Belfield,  in  Ireland,  1737,  Viscount  Belfield 
in  1761,  and  Earl  of  Belvedere,  in  1756,  His  second  wife,  whom  he  marriod 
in  1736,  was  the  Hon.  Mary  Molesworth,  daughter  of  Richard,  3rd  Viscount 
Moles  worth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  279 

certainly  been  an  engagement  in  the  Mediterranean,  and 
that  we  have  had  the  advantage,  but  farther  particulars 
have  not  yet  come.  To-morrow  we  dine  in  Arlington 
Street ;  what  stay  do  you  propose  making  at  Calwich  ? 
By  the  time  the  roads  are  tolerable  I  hope  I  may  be 
able  to  come  to  you  in  Staffordshire ;  it  will  not  be  in 
my  power  to  make  the  tour  of  Gloucester  and  Bradley  in 
my  way  to  Chester ;  and  you  cannot  be  settled  at  Wels- 
boume  before  Midsummer,  so  that,  though  I  may  call  there 
in  my  way  to  Calwich  to  see  the  place,  there  is  no  possibi- 
lity of  our  meeting  there  till  next  year.  I  have  got  an 
old  broken  Indian  chest  for  you,  some  scrub  chairs,  a  sofa 
and  couch — (the  couch  is  precious  because  covered  with  a 
gift  of  my  mother's,  but  it  is  so  lumbering  a  thing  I  can't 
take  it  with  me,) — a  clock,  and  a  few  pictures ;  let  me 
know  where  these  shall  be  deposited  when  I  pack  up, 
not  that  I  have  yet  made  any  preparations  for  it,  but  I 
must  settle  by  degrees,  that  the  confiision  may  be  less  at 
the  time  of  moving.  I  think  it  fortunate  for  us  both, 
that  we  shall  be  in  a  bustle  this  summer ;  and  when  we 
consider  that  we  are  not  only  settling  ourselves  in  a 
happy  and  reasonable  situation,  but  are  preparing  plea- 
sant apartments  to  receive  each  other  by  turns,  I  think  we 
may  find  great  satisfaction  in  the  employment.  I  shall 
wait  with  impatience  for  to-morrow's  post,  in  hopes  of  a 
confirmation  from  you  of  the  dear  child's  being  well  again. 
I  think,  in  case  of  a  return,  you  are  now  well  provided 
with  remedies. 

The  oratorios  fill  very  well,  notwithstanding  the  spite 
of  the  opera  party  :  nine  of  the  twelve  are  over.  Joseph 
is  to  be  performed  (I  hope)  once  more,  then  Saul,  and 
the  Messiah  finishes ;  as  they  have  taken  very  well,  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


280  UPB  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

fancy  Handel  will  have  a  second  subscription ;  and  how 
do  you  think  I  have  lately  been  employed  f  Why,  I  have 
made  a  drama  for  an  oratorio,  out  of  Milton's  Paradise 
Lost,  to  give  Mr.  Handel  to  compose  to;  it  has  cost 
me  a  great  deal  of  thought  and  contrivance;  D.D. 
approves  of  my  performance,  and  that  gives  me  some 
reason  to  think  it  not  bad,  though  all  I  have  had  to  do^ 
has  been  collecting  and  making  the  connection  between 
the  fine  parts.  I  begin  with  Satan's  threatenings  to 
seduce  the  woman,  her  being  seduced  follows,  and  it 
ends  with  the  man's  yielding  to  the  temptation ;  I  would 
not  have  a  word  or  a  thought  of  Milton's  altered ;  and 
I  hope  to  prevail  with  Handel  to  set  it  vnthout  having 
any  of  the  lines  put  into  verse,  for  that  will  take  from  its 
dignity.  This,  and  painting  three  pictures,  have  been  my 
chief  morning  employment  since  I  came  to  town.  I 
must  write  two  letters  more  this  post. 

D.D.  has  been  much  concerned  for  the  little  boy.  But  as 

An  ague  in  the  spring 
Is  pbysick  for  a  king, 

we  hope  he  will  find  no  bad  consequences  attend  it. 

The  letters  of  Mrs.  Delany  after  her  second  marriage,  gradually 
unfold  the  effects  of  the  constant  cultivation  of  the  uncommon 
talents,  which  she  had  through  life  token  every  opportimity  to 
improve  quietly  and  unostentatiously;  but  there  is  no  doubt  that 
the  pride  and  pleasure  which  Dr.  Delany  took  in  her  fiivourite 
occupations,  gave  her  fresh  spirit  and  fresh  zeal.  She  here  men- 
tions finishing  three  pictures,  besides  the  remarkable  fact  of  her 
having  arranged  a  drama  for  an  oratorio  by  Handel  from  Paradise 
Lost.  It  does  not  appear  that  this  oratorio  was  ever  brought  forth 
in  Handel's  life-time ;  but  an  or  orio  imder  this  title  was  published 
as  Smith's,  after  his  death,  which  was  most  probably  Handel's  own 
composition. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DEL  ANY.  281 

Mrs,  Ddcmy  to  Mrs,  Detoes^  at  CcUvnch, 

Clarges  Street,  15  March,  1743-4. 

It  grieves  my  heart  that  the  poor  dear  little  boy  should 
have  a  return  of  his  ague,  but  I  hope  you  have  given  him 
the  bark  before  now  and  at  the  time  you  laid  on  Clark's 
plaister.  How  imfortunate  I  am  always  to  be  from  you 
in  your  distresses !  but  absent  from  or  present  with  you 
I  mast  mourn  when  you  mourn,  and  rejoice  when  you 
rejoice.  Agues  though  frightful  are  not  fatal,  and  I  have 
strong  faith  in  the  bark  where  it  can  be  taken^  and  in  no- 
thing else. 

I  shall  be  glad  to  leave  the  Duchess  of  Portland  safe  in 
her  bed  before  I  come  to  you,  and  when  I  shall  have  that 
happiness  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  only  knows,  for  tUl  then 
we  must  not  move.  If  it  were  not  for  the  giving  up  my 
house,  packing  off  my  trumpery,  which  I  must  do  myself 
or  may  sustain  great  damages,  I  should  leave  D.D.  and  fly 
to  Calwich ;  but  you  must  not  let  the  uncertainty  of  my 
a£&irs  disturb  the  order  of  yours,  and  when  it  is  con- 
venient for  you  to  go  to  your  house  at  Bradley,  don't  let 
me  detain  you  at  Calwich  :  but  I  fancy  you  will  hardly 
think  of  doing  that  till  the  roads  are  good;  and  now  I 
believe  they  are  worse  than  they  have  been  for  some 
years.  B. '  is  in  very  goad  humour,  and  seems  mightily 
pleased  with  my  mother  and  your  being  at  Calwich,  and 
speaks  very  kindly  of  the  little  boy,  and  with  much  con- 
cern at  his  having  a  return  of  his  ague.  How  long  he  stays  I 
don  t  know  (nor  ask),  but  he  told  the  Percivals  a  fortnight. 


*  **  5."  Bernard. — This  proves  that  Mr.  Granville  was  then  in  London,  and 
"  in  ffoai  humour,*^  having  left  hia  mother  and  Mrs.  Dewes  at  Calwich. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


282  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDENCE 

We  went  together  last  night  to  Joseph.  'Twas  the 
last  night,  and  I  think  I  prefer  it  to  every  thing  he  has 
made,  except  the  Messiah.  I  have  collected  the  oratorio  for 
him  out  of  Milton's  Paradise  Lost,  which  I  hope  will  do. 
The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Portland  dine  with  me  to- 
day. D.D.  is  affectionately  yours ;  his  hest  duty  and  mine 
to  dear  mama,  and  our  tender  wishes  to  the  little  boy. 
I  am,  my  dearest  love,  ever  yours, 

M.  D. 

How  is  your  foot  ?  For  God's  sake  take  care  of  stumr 
Ming!  The  charming  thread  ]a  come,  and  is  more  precious 
than  threads  of  gold.  The  Brinsdens  are  in  town ;  we 
dine  there  on  Thursday  next. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Detves. 

Clarges  Street,  March  22,  1743-4. 

In  hopes  of  performing  any  promise  to  my  dearest 
sister  I  begin  on  a  folio  sheet  of  paper,  my  eye  being 
now  well  enough  for  such  an  undertaking.  I  most  joy- 
fully congratulate  you  and  my  dear  mama  on  my  god- 
son's having  lost  his  ague  and  gained  a  tooth.  All  your 
letters  make  me  happy  beyond  expression,  and  D.D. 
takes  a  particular  pleasure  in  our  friendship  for  one 
another;  he  knows  the  human  heart  was  formed  for 
social  affections,  and  that  the  friendly  communion  be- 
tween sisters  and  friends  no  way  interferes  with  that  of 
husband  and  wife;  for  can  we  suppose  that  Provi- 
dence should  make  it  our  duty  to  love  our  relations, 
and  that  the  performance  of  that  duty  should  be  an  injury 
to  one  anotlier  ?    It  was  ever  my  opinion,  that  this  could 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  283 

not  be  :  tis  now  strengthened  by  experience,  for  I  never 
loved  my  dearest  sister  with  more  (if  with  so  much) 
warmth  and  tenderness  as  at  this  moment.  Pray  give 
my  most  affectionate  duty  to  my  mother,  and  a  thousand 
thanks  for  her  charming  letter.  I  hope  she  will  be  so 
good  as  to  forgive  my  not  answering  it  this  post. 

There  is  yet  no  account  of  the  Duke  of  Devonshire 
coming,  which  will  occasion  D.D.'s  taking  out  a  licence 
for  another  quarter  of  a  year ;  you  may  imagine,  a  longer 
stay  amongst  my  friends  than  I  expected  will  not  be 
unwelcome,  but  I  am  afraid  it  wiQ  be  attended  by  some 
inconveniences  in  his  affairs^  and  be  a  detriment  to  his 
parishioners,  but  we  are  not  to  blame,  and  we  must  en- 
deavour to  make  them  amends  when  we  get  among  them, 
and  in  the  mean  time  we  will  be  as  happy  as  we  can. 

The  moment  I  can  guess  about  what  time  we  shall  be 
at  liberty  I  will  let  you  know ;  but  I  think  it  will  not 
be  possible  to  move  till  the  latter  end  of  next  month.  I 
wish  you  had  the  reforming  of  the  present  family^  you  are 
in,  but  tis  ordy  a  wife  can  do  those  things ;  there  is  no 
sister  in  the  world  can  act  as  freely  for  a  brother  as 
for  herself  /  wivsh  Mrs.  Dean  was  translated — can't  you 
persuade  her  to  give  my  brother  warning  ?  He  never 
names  domestic  affairs  to  me;  if  I  heard  of  a  clever 
woman  that  I  thought  would  manage  well  for  him,  I 
would  recommend  her,  for  he  cannot  have  a  worse  than 
his  pres^it  manager.  Now  I  am  talking  of  these  af^rs, 
I  must  let  you  into  a  secret  which  I  suppose  cannot  long 
remain  so.     Father  Fo/*  is  going  to  be  married  to  Mrs. 

'  Mr.  Granville's  household. 

*  The  death  of  the  fourth  Mrs.  Foley  (Elizabeth  Unett)  the  friend  of  Ann 
Granville,  not  having  been  previously  mentioned,  it  must  have  occurred  when 
the  sisters  were  together. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


284  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Gwyn,  a  maiden  gentlewoman  of  thirty-six,  plain  enough 
and  two  thousand  pound  fortune  ;  her  brother  is  a  great 
friend  of  the  Fo's,  perhaps  you  may  have  seen  him ;  don't 
mention  this  even  to  Mr.  Dewes,  for  my  coz  Fo.  told  it 
me  in  great  confidence.  The  family  are  not  at  aU  pleased 
with  his  marrying,  ea^cept  the  daughter,  and  she  thinks  it 
will  be  easier  to  her  than  the  management  of  the  family. 
I  thought  he  would  marry  again  the  first  woman  that 
would  have  him.  The  Bishop  of  Gloucester  was  with  me 
three  days  ago,  but  with  no  good  news,  he  has  twice  men- 
tioned what  was  desired,  but  nothing  was  said  that  could 
be  interpreted  to  her  advantage ;  the  Bishop  wishes 
there  may  be  interviews  this  summer,  which  perhaps  (as 
he  is  unengaged),  may  bring  him  to  some  resolution. 

It  has  been  confidently  reported  for  some  days  that 
Lord  Carteret  was  to  be  married  to  Lady  Sophia  Fermor, 
Lord  Pomfret's  daughter.'  Nay  they  went  so  far  as  to 
say  they  were  certainly  married  on  Tuesday  night,  but  I 
believe  there  is  no  ground  for  the  report ;  she  is  a  hand- 
some woman,  but  I  know  no  more  of  her.  Last  night, 
alas !  was  the  last  night  of  the  oratorio :  it  concluded  with 
Saul :  I  was  in  hopes*  of  the  Messiah.  I  have  been  at  ten 
ten  oratorios,  and  wished  you  at  every  one  most  he-artily. 

I  have  not  seen  Lady  Sunderland  this  age :  she  is  but 
indifferent,  but  the  oratorios  took  up  two  days  in  the 
week,  and  I  seldom  go  out  on  a  Sunday.  Last  Monday 
we  dined  at  Mr.  Percival's ;  B.  was  invited,  but  would 
not  come,  which  gave  great  offence,  and  vexed  me.  Mr. 
Dewes  was  there ;  to-day  we  dine  at  Mr.  Brinsdens  ^  in 

1  Lord  Carteret  married,  secondly,  in  March,  1744,  the  Lady  Sophia,  eldest 
daughter  of  Thomas  Fermor,  Earl  of  Pomfret. 

«  This  was  probably  the  husband  of  "  Mrs.  Bet  CastlemaivP  whose  marriage 
was  before  alluded  to. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DELANY.  285 

Bathbone-Place ;  did  I  tell  you  she  came  to  ask  me 
wliere  my  silversmith  lived,  for  she  wanted  some  plate  ? 
I  recommended  Mr.  Crapin,  who  had  made  all  the  plate 
I  ever  purchased^  viz.,  a  silver  ladle!  Mr.  Dewes  is 
invited  to  meet  us,  and  my  brother,  but  the  latter  I 
believe  will  slip  his  neck  out  of  the  collar.  I  made  a 
short  visit  to  our  dear  Duchess  yesterday  morning  after 
prayers ;  she  is  in  pretty  good  spirits,  and  desired  her 
kind  love  to  you.  She  expects  Lady  Andover  in  town 
every  day ;  she  comes  to  lye-in,  and  I  fear  they  will  come 
at  the  same  time :  I  hope  not  the  same  day,  as  they  both 
employ  Sandys.  Let  me  know,  my  dearest  sister,  parti- 
cularly how  you  do. 

Did  I  tell  you  how  I  was  pleased  with  Mr.  Bevem  the 
Quaker,  who  dined  with  us  about  a  fortnig||t  ago  ?  He  is 
a  most  extraordinary  man,  very  sensible,  smart  and  polite 
in  his  manner :  he  has  taken  to  carving  in  ivory  for  his 
amusement,  and  cuts  likenesses  of  people  that  he  has  not 
seen  for  many  years.  I  have  packed  up  a  box  of  work  for 
you ;  the  great  chair  that  was  begun  so  long  ago,  with  aU 
the  worsteds  and  silks  that  belong  to  it,  which  at  your 
leisure  I  hope  you  will  finish,  and  that  I  shall  have  the 
pleasure  of  sitting  in  it  by  your  fire-side  at  Welsbome. 
I  shall  not  send  it  you  without  your  orders,  but  leave  it 
to  be  packed  with  the  rest  of  your  trumpery  affairs. 

D.D.  is  at  St.  James's  Chapel,  and  I  can't  leave  my 
letter  open  till  he  comes  home,  because  I  must  go  and 
dress — but  I  know  he  is  faithfully  yours,  and  I  am  just 
what  I  wish  you  to  be  ever  to  me.  Lady  Dysart  has 
got  another  son,  and  is  very  well. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


286  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Clarges  Street,  30  March,  1744. 

Though  to-morrow  is  the  post  day  I  must  begin  to-day, 
for  fear  of  not  being  able  to  say  all  I  would  say  to  my 
most  dear  sister  D.D.  wishes  you  would  set  about  the 
ballad  on  leaving  the  old  oak  of  Bradley ;  he  is  sure  you 
will  succeed  incomparably  well.  I  hope  we  shall  make 
a  party  together  for  visiting  the  sacred  Druid's  habita- 
tion, though  not  this  year ;  in  the  meantime  we  will  recal 
every  pleasant  moment  we  have  past  together,  and  lay 
schemes  for  their  renewal.  I  thank  God  we  have  hap- 
pily executed  many  a  delightful  scheme,  and  if  we 
keep  them  within  the  limits  of  reason  and  discretion  we 
may  always  i^^ulge  ourselves  with  the  hope  (at  least)  of 
success.  I  am  glad  the  weather  favours  all  your  works. 
I  have  sent  you  by  Mr.  Dewes  some  garden  seeds  from 
the  Oxford  physic  garden ;  you  are  to  divide  with  my 
brother  those  that  are  for  the  natural  ground^  and  those 
for  hot-beds  are  all  your  own,  and  some  of  the  produce  I 
'  bespeak  for  Delville,  and  hope  you  wiU  sow  them  there 
with  your  own  dear  hands.  My  brother  talks  of  staying 
till  the  latter  end  of  April;  it  is  not  unlikely  but  we 
may  travel  together.  I  don't  think  there  ever  was  a 
happier  creature  than  Mrs.  Brinsden ;  I  wished  you  with 
me  {and  was  not  that  strange  ?)  the  day  I  dined  there,  to  see 
with  what  joy  she  puUed  out  of  her  Indian  chest  frag- 
ments of  good  things,  and  some  whole  pieces  of  velvet 
and  silks.  She  has  an  honest  good  heart,  and  I  am 
pleased  to  see  how  she  enjoys  the  blessings  that  she  has. 
Nothing  hurts  me  more  than  the  repinings  of  some  of 
my  acquaintance  (at  least  their  insipid  possession  of  good 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  287 

things),  when,  if  they  had  the  gratitude  to  Providence 
they  ought  to  have,  their  whole  lives  should  be  spent 
in  thanksgiving  instead  of  murmuring ;  this  makes  me 
often  check  a  rising  sigh,  and  sets  me  recollecting  the 
many  blessings  that  I  possess;  and  /  Jiope  I  shall 
maintain  this  temper  of  mind,  for  the  sake  of  my  friends 
as  well  as  my  own  advantage.  I  have  been  in  a  little 
bustle  with  my  servants.  Thomas  Eogers,  that  Mrs. 
Chapon  recommended  to  us,  and  promised  to  be  an  ex- 
cellent servant,  says  he  will  not  go  to  Ireland,  and  we 
have  discharged  him,  Barrow  has  mishaved  himself  so 
much  that  he  must  go;  Margaret  and  I  had  almost 
parted,  but  at  last  I  have  agreed,  and  she  goes  to  Ireland 
as  housemaid. 

The  Duke  of  Devonshire  is  now  expected  soon,  some 
say  he  will  be  at  Chester  next  Sunday.  Lord  Carteret  has 
hurried  Lady  Sophia  Termor's  spirits  into  a  scarlet  fever, 
and  she  was  in  great  danger  for  twenty-four  hours,  and 
she  has  thrown  him  into  the  gout,  with  which  he  has  been 
confined  this  week ;  I  believe  I  writ  my  mama  word  aU 
the  particulars  of  the  settlements  and  so  forth.  D.D, 
preaches  on  Sunday  next  before  his  Majesty ;  it  is 
unlucky  for  him  that  my  Lord  Carteret  wUl  not  be  able 
to  attend  in  the  closet,  for  he  had  determined  to  have 
said  something  in  his  favour.  This  was  written  in  the 
morning.  At  eleven  we  went  to  Northend ;  at  my  return 
I  made  a  visit  to  the  Percivals,  dressed  and  dined  at 
Whitehall,  made  visits  in  the  afternoon,  drank  tea  with 
Lady  Andover,  who  is  come  to  town  to  lye  in,  and, 
poor  thing  !  has  had  a  fever.  Cousin  Fo.  came  to  town 
to-day,  I  sat  an  hour  with  her  in  my  way  home,  and 
am  now  by  my  fireside  with  my  own  D.D.,  who  bears 


Digitized  by 


Google 


288  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

all  my  flirtations  and  rambles  with  unchangeable  good 
humour^  and  only  makes  me  regret  every  hour  I  spend 
from  him.  To-morrow  Sir  Anthony  Wescomb  calls  for  us 
in  his  coach  (my  brother  is  to  be  of  the  party)  to  carry  xxa 
to  his  villa  ^  that  he  purchased  last  year  on  Chelsea  Com- 
mon ;  he  is  to  come  back  with  us  and  dine  here,  so  we 
shall  pay  our  court  to  the  Black  Knight,  who  ought 
not  to  be  neglected,  but  I  suppose  he  mil  take  another  I 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Clarges  Street,  April  3, 1744. 

Though  I  cannot  hear  of  my  dearest  mama's  suffering 
pain  without  feeling  it  myself,  I  hope  and  believe  this  fit 
of  the  gout  will  be  a  blessmg  to  us  all,  by  prolonging  her 
life  ;  for  where  there  is  a  disposition  towards  it,  it  is 
safest  when  it  gives  pain  in  the  limbs :  pray  Grod  keep  it 
from  her  stomach!  If  she  could  take  the  Rawleigh 
Cordial,  it  is  the  best  thing  to  prevent  its  coming  into 
her  stomach,  and  to  give  her  rest. 

Our  next  care  at  present,  the  dear  Duchess,  is  as  well 
as  can  be,  and  the  child  also  though  a  little  tiny  boy  ; 


'  Blacklanda  is  in  the  Marlborough  Road,  Chelsea,  formerly  called  Black- 
lands  Lane.  Bowack  in  his  Antiquities  of  Middlesex^  (1706),  says: — 
"  William,  Lord  Cheyne,  Viscount  Newhaven  in  Scotland,  has  two  good  seats  in 
Chelsea.  The  first  is  the  mansion  house,  where  Queen  Elizabeth  was  nursed, 
east  end  of  the  town  near  the  Thames.  The  other  some  distance  north  of  the 
town,  called  Blacklands  Hoilse,  both  (1705)  let  to  French  boarding  schools."  It 
is  now  (1860)  a  lunatic  asylum,  and  adjoins  the  old  ManOr  House  at  Chelsea, 
which  forms  part  of  the  premises  of  Messrs.  Scott  and  Cuthbertson  (paper 
manufacturers),  called  "  Whitelands."  Blacklands  has  still  a  good  garden, 
old  iron  gates,  and  the  centre  of  the  house  is  evidently  part  of  the  original 
structure. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  289 

but  Elias  the  porter  says  "  'tis  b.  parjict  Dimor^y  I  have 
not  yet  seen  her,  nor  will  these  two  days,  for  you  know 
my  caution  about  lying-in  ladies. 

Well,  the  affair  of  preaching  before  his  Majesty  is 
over,*  to  the  great  ease  of  mine  and  D.D.'s  mind.  He  was 
as  anxious  about  it  as  if  he  had  never  spoken  in  public,  but 
he  came  off  with  applause.  The  King  attended  and  com- 
mended his  sermon  ;  the  generality  of  the  congregation 
were  gaping  for  a  flattering  discourse,  and  thought  that 
he  would  preach  for  a  bishopric,  but  found  he  thought 
more  of  acquitting  himself  like  a  good  Xtian  orator,  than 
of  gaining  promotion  by  a  fawning,  fdlsome  discourse ; 
which  in  truth  would  not  only  have  been  below  his  own 
dignity  to  have  uttered,  but  an  a&ont  to  his  royal 
audience.  His  text  was  the  4  Chap,  of  St.  Paul  to  the 
Gralatians,  part  of,  the  8th  verse :  —  "  But  it  is  good  to  be 
zedUmdy  affected  always  in  a  good  thing''  Lord  Carteret 
is  still  confined  with  the  gout,  and  could  not  be  there ; 
but  I  mistook  in  saying  he  would  tell  the  King  that  he 
"might  be  amused \^  his  joke  was,  that  "perhaps  he 
might  be  abused !" 

I  have  just  had  Hele  with  me,  and  shall  pack  up  your 
afl^s  and  send  them  to  Welsbom.  I  don't  know  where 
we  can  meet  if  we  do  not  at  Calwich ;  it  is  there  I  propose 
our  meeting  shall  be ;  and  as  my  stay  cannot  be  very- 
long,  I  hope  the  neighbours  will  be  so  indulgent  as  not  to 
expect' any  visits  from  me.  I  design  to  ask  my  brother  to- 
day when  it  will  be  most  convenient  to  him  for  us  to  go ; 
but  my  Lord  Lieutenant  is  not  yet  arrived,  and  our  mo- 
tions must  be  regulated  by  him.     My  heart  and  thoughts 


'  Dr.  Dclany'g  preariiing. 
VOL.  II.  U 


Digitized  by 


Google 


290  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

have  long  been  with  yon,  and  I  shall  have  no  joy  till  my 
body  follows.  D.D.  is  as  impatient  to  be  with  you  as  I  am, 
and  treats  me  with  such  tenderness  on  the  subject,  that 
it  lies  most  on  my  mind  that  you  will  love  him  better  than 
ever ;  and  I  assure  you  he  loves  and  admires  you  extremely. 
We  have  this  day  dispatched  Barrow  to  Dublin  to  take  out 
a  new  license ;  the  old  one  will  be  out  on  the  14th,  and  we 
must  not  run  the  hazard  of  the  post,  for  fear  of  accidents. 

To-day  I  shall  have  a  treat  that  I  shall  most  ardently 
wish  you  and  my  mother  your  share  of.  Handel,  my 
brother,  and  Donnellan  dine  here,  and  we  are  to  be  enter- 
tained with  HandeVs  playing  over  Joseph  to  us.  How 
ofben  and  how  tenderly  shall  I  think  of  my  Benjamin  I 
I  shall  be  impatient  for  to-morrow's  post,  to  know 
how  my  mother  does :  the  very  sharp  moist  weather  we 
have,  I  fear  may  increase  her  pain.  I  love  my  dear  little 
godson  for  calling  for  me,  and  desire  you  will  teU  him  "  I 
am  coming  as  fast  as  I  can."  When  the  great  wedding 
wiU  be,  I  don't  know ;  I  have  given  myself  very  little 
trouble  about  them ;  the  courting,  I  assure  you,  is  much 
more  on  their  side  than  ours.  We  dine  there  once  a- week, 
or  once  in  ten  days,  and  I  come  away,  and  so  does  D.D.  as 
soon  as  dinner  is  over. 

Wish  me  joy  and  wishDonnellan  joy ;  for  Captain  Bury,^ 


1  ^  About  the  end  of  last  month  we  had  an  aooonnt,  that  on  Feb,  26,  was 
brought  into  Qihraltar^  by  his  Majesty's  ship  the  Sdehay^  commanded  by 
Capt,  Bury,  the  Concordia,  a  Sparhuih  register  ship  of  22  guns  and  142  meu, 
including  passengers,  taken  the  day  before  off  Cadiz,  after  five  hours'  engage- 
ment. She  is  the  richest  prize  that  has  been  made  in  the  present  war  with 
Bpain,  having  on  board  180,000  dollars,  12,000  serous  of  cochineal,  500  of 
indigo^  and  several  other  rich  goods ;  the  whole  computed  at  a  million  and  a 
half  of  dollars.  A  little  before,  Ca^ptain  Bury  took  a  Spanish  privateer  of  four 
carriage  guns,  ten  swivels,  and  seventy-five  men." — London  Magazine  Chro- 
ndoger,  for  April,  1744. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  291 

for  whom  we  applied  last  year  to  the  Admiralty,  and  made 
him  captain  by  our  interest,  has  got  a  vast  rich  prize ;  his 
own  share,  they  say,  will  come  to  fourscore  thousand 
pounds ;  and  he  is  an  honest,  valiant  young  man,  and 
deserves  his  good  fortune ;  you  may  imagine  how  pleased 
and  proud  his  patronesses  are  on  this  occasion.  You  ask  me 
how  many.poimds  of  thread  I  have  got  for  you ;  do  you 
mean  knotted  or  unknotted  ?  I  hope  I  shall  not  forget 
the  cornice  of  your  bed,  but  please  God  I  shall  make 
you  a  visit  at  Welsbome  long  before  you  will  be  ready 
for  the  cornice.  I  wish  I  may  be  able  to  get  a  recom- 
mendation for  poor  Mrs.  Lander :  I  have  not  yet  been 
able  to  meet  with  a  subscriber. 

T  believe  I  have  burnt  this  week  an  hundred  of  your 
letters :  how  WfmnUingly  did  I  commit  to  the  flames  those 
testimonies  of  your  tender  friendship !  but  I  have  preserved 
more  than  double  their  number,  which  I  shall  take  with 
me  as  so  many  charms.  I  thought  it  prudent  to  destroy 
letters  that  mentioned  particular  affairs  of  particular 
people,  or  family  business.  Don't  expect  to  hear  from 
me  next  post,  for  the  Duchess  is,  I  thank  Crod,  so  weU 
you  may  be  easy  on  her  account,  and  I  am  to  go 
out  early  on  Thursday  upon  business,  and  shall  hardly 
find  time  till  Saturday  to  write ;  but  if  I  can  I  will. 
My  most  humble  and  affectionate  duty  to  dear  mama, 
and  D.D/s  love  to  "sister  Ann."  The  Sixth  Night 
has  been  in  my  house  three  days,  and  I  have  not  had 
time  to  read  it  I 

Upon  second  thoughts,  I  believe  the  clock  can't  go  to 
Welsboume  till  I  go  away,  for  we  shall  want  it ;  but  I 
wiU  see  it  packed  up  safely  the  day  before  I  go. 


u2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


292  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  at  Calvnch. 

Clarges  Street,  17  April,  1744. 

It  is  not  only  preaching  that  keeps  D.D.  in  town,  but 
the  Duke  of  Devonshire's  staying  so  long  in  Ireland ; 
for  it  would  have  been  very  inconvenient  for  him  to 
be  obliged  to  come  to  town  again  from  Calwich :  and 
when  we  determined  to  set  out  the  25th  of  this  month 
we  thought  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  would  have  been 
here  by  the  2nd  or  3rd  of  April ;  and  upon  his  not 
coming  and  great  solicitations  from  the  Foleys  (who 
interest  themselves  very  much  in  the  Westminster 
Infirmary),  D.D.  was  prevailed  on  to  promise  them  a 
sermon  on  the  first  of  May;  but,  please  Gbd,  if 
nothing  unforeseen  prevents  us,  we  will  set  forward  the 
3d  or  4th  of  May.  My  heart  beats  with  impatience 
for  the  happy  moment  of  seeing  my  dearest  sister ;  and 
at  this  time  of  our  good  dear  mama's  pain  and  confine- 
ment I  would  fly  instantly  to  you,  had  I  not  affairs  to 
settle  here  which  you  know  can  only  be  done  by  my 
self,  and  I  must  settle  all  accounts  with  Mr.  Stanley, 
which  I  hope  next  week  will  accomplish. 

When  Mr.  Foley  goes  away  (s?ie  is  gone  this  moriing, 
and  he  follows  in  a  few  days)  we  take  possession  of  their 
house,  which  they  have  been  so  kind  as  to  offer  us,  and 
I  shall  then  clear  my  own,  which  cannot  be  conveniently 
done  whilst  we  are  in  it.  I  have  not  yet  packed  up  one 
individual  thing,  but  have  cleared  away  a  good  many 
papers,  and  burnt  some  precious  manuscripts  that  nothing 
can  make  me  amends  for  but  the  same  dear  hand  and 
heart  from  whence  they  came ;  well !  I  will  despatch  all 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  293 

with  good  courage,  and  when  we  meet  I  shall  be  recom- 
pensed the  anxieties  I  have  had ;  and  the  word  going,  let 
it  not  be  named,  that  is,  not  the  time  hinted  at,  be  sure 
we  will  stay  as  long  as  in  prudence  we  may — indeed,  I 
fear  we  have  a  little  trespassed  on  that  boundary  abeady. 
My  dear  mama's  pain  I  feel  at  this  distance ;  the  sick- 
ness I  believe  proceeds  from  the  pain  :  cannot  you  pre- 
vail with  her  to  take  palsy  drops  ?  she  used  to  do  that, 
and  they  are  very  proper.  It  is  vastly  good  in  you  to 
write  constantly;  it  is  impossible  to  be  easy  without 
knowing  punctually.  Pray  God  give  her  ease,  all  her 
children  pray  most  heartily  for  her  relief.  I  fear  I  have 
communicated  too  much  of  my  pain  to  you,  by  telling 
you  how  uneasy  I  was  on  B — 's  account,  but  I  think  of 
late  his  humour  is  mended :  he  has  dined  once  or  twice 
here  lately,  and  been  very  cheerfiil. 

We  all  dined  yesterday  at  the  Duke  of  Portland's,  and 
went  together  to  Sullivan's  benefit ;  a  most  stupid  enter- 
tainment on  the  whole,  but  there  was  one  scene  of  toler- 
able humour,  which  made  us  laugh,  of  the  King  and 
Queen  of  Spain  and  Farinelli.'  B.  came  home  and 
supped  with  us  :  he  is  much  concerned  about  my  mother's 
being  ill,  but  I  hope  this  severe  fit  of  the  gout  will  be  a 
means  of  her  having  better  health  hereafter.  I  cannot 
express  to  you  jbbe  satisfaction  your  last  letter  gave  me ; 
it  has  given  a  new  turn  to  my  thoughts,  and  I  believe 
I  shall  now  go  through  all  I  have  to  do  with  great 
fortitude.  I  hope  my  dear  mama  will  take  Mr.  Eogers' 
draught,  if  there  is  occasion. 


1  The  Qaeen  of  Spain ;  or,  Farinelli  at  Madrid.  Mus.  Ent.  by  James 
Worsdale.  Acted  at  the  Haymarket,  1744.  Not  printed. — Baker's  Biographia 
Dramatica, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


294  UFB  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Well,  now  for  business.     Your  nightgown  I  bought 
yesterday — blue  and  white ;  more  a  winter  suit  in  sub- 
stance than  a  summer  one,  but  so  great  a  penny-worth  I 
could  not  forbear,  though  it  cost  eight  shillings  a  yard.     I 
shall  take  your  advice  and  bring  nothing  with  me  but 
nightgowns,  and  Margaret  shall  have  the  great  honour 
of  being  your  slave  and  servant.     The  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire came  to  town  last  Tuesday,  and  in  a  few  days  our 
fate  must  be  determined.     I  have  wrot-e  a  letter  to  Sir 
Clement  Cottrel  to  shew  Lord  Carteret, wherein  I  name  the 
Bishopric  of  Meath,  and  I  have  laid  it  to  his  conscience 
whether  D.D.  and  myself  have  not  merited  that  favour 
at  his  hands.   But  now  the  happiness  of  a  bridegroom  *  I 
suppose  will  so  engross  his  attention,  that  it  will  not  be 
easy  to  fix  him  on  any  other  subject,  and  I  have  more  de- 
pendance  on  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  than  the  other.    The 
wedding  was  last  Saturday  evening ;  they  were  married  at 
Lord  Pomfret's:  Lady  Granville  was  invited,   but  did 
not  go ;  the  daughters  my  Lord  would  not  invite,  for 
fear  it  should  affect  them  too  much,  and  he  has  Wr 
deed  acted  with  a  tenderness  towards  them  that  I  did 
not  imagine    had  been  in  his  nature.      At   12,  bride 
and  bridegroom  came  home,  attended  by  Lady  Pomfiret 
and  Lady  Charlotte  Fermor  the  sister ;    Lady  G.  and 
Miss  Carteret  were  gone  to  bed,  but  Mrs.  Paver  was 
there  to  do  honours   and  help  to  undress  the   bride. 
Have  you  a  notion  of  that  ?     I  really  thought  Paver 
had  loved  poor  Lady  Carteret ;  but  if  she  had,  was  it  pos- 
sible fOT  her  to  go  through  such  a  scene  ?  but  she  was 


Ou  April  14,  1744,  Lord  Carteret  married  his  second  wife,  Lady  Sophia 
Fermor.    She  was  the  eldest  daughter  of  Thomas,  1st  Earl  Fomfret. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  295 

trained  up  in  the  schoxd  of  indifference  for  others  and 
love  of  self.  The  next  day  all  the  Pomfrets  dined  there, 
and  nobody  was  admitted.  I  left  my  name  at  the  door 
with  the  crowdy  and  shall  wait  till  I  am  sent  to.  They 
have  famished  the  town  with  conversation  in  abundance, 
all  which  tittle-tattle  I  reserve  for  talk  at  Calwich. 

I  go  to-day  at  1 2  to  Whitehall  to  our  Duchess.  When 
you  write  to  her  say  nothing  of  the  day  I  have  fixed  for 
my  journey :  she  is  very  weU  and  all  the  little  ones. 
Mr.  Percival  has  had  the  gout,  and  has  it  very  bad ;-  the 
rest  are  weU.  Have  you  the  Minute  Philosopher  ^  and 
Derham's  Physico-Theology  ?  ^  I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to 
get  the  fringe,  but  Mrs.  Littleton  (who  was  to  get  it  for 
me)  and  I  have  not  met ;  I  will  send  her  a  message  by 
Lady  Westmorland.  I  have  not  seen  Lady  Sarah  Cowper 
a  great  while,  but  she  has  been  much  out  of  order  aU  this 
winter. 

Next  Thursday  we  go  to  Paul's  to  hear  the  music  for 
the  Sons  of  the  Clergy — Donn.  Mr.  Brinsden,  D.D., 
my  brother,  and  I.  Dr.  Young  dined  yesterday  at 
Whitehall ;  he  is  vastly  broke,  but  he  and  D.D.  took  very 
kindly  to  one  another.  Princess  is  very  well  and  in  high 
favour  in  Arlington  Street,  but  I  am  sure  they  will  do 
her  no  substantial  favour ;  however,  as  it  keeps  up  her 
spirits  to  be  well  received  there,  I  am  glad  she  is.     Mr. 


*  "  The  Minute  PhiloBopher,*'  a  aeries  of  dialogues,  written  in  1732,  by 
Dr.  George  Berkeley,  witli  which  Queen  Caroline  was  so  pleased  that  she 
had  him  promoted  to  the  Bishopric  of  Cloyne. 

*  William  Derham,  D.D.,  Chaplain  to  George  I.,  and  Canon  of  Windsor, 
bom  1657,  died  1735.  He  devoted  himself  to  philosophical  pursuits.  In 
1713  he  published  his  "  Physico-Theology,"  being  the  substance  of  his  Boyle's 
Lectures,  with  curious  and  instructive  notes.  He  also  wrote  "  Astro-Theology,** 
"  Christo-Theology,"  &c. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


296  LIFE  AND  OOBBESPONDENCB 

Foley  ^  will  soon  be  married ;  he  is  all  flame  and  impa- 
tience— I  wish  she  may  prove  a  discreet  woman,  for 
Miss  Foley's  sake ;  Matrimony  is  much  in  fashion,  but 
I  have  neither  time  nor  memory  at  present  to  recollect 
them,  so  they  must  go  into  the  bag  of  chatter  that  is  to 
be  opened  at  Calwich ;  I  shall  think  the  time  long  till 
the  post  comes  in  to-morrow ;  enclose  no  more  to  Mr. 

Foley. 

I  hope  you  received  the  paper  about  Mrs.  Huddleston. 
I  have  at  last  recollected  her  direction,  and  shall  by  this 
post  send  one,  for  fear  of  losing  time,  for  next  Tuesday 
is  the  day  the  paper  must  be  returned. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dtwes^  at  Calwich* 

Clarges  Street,  21  April,  1744. 

I  shall  have  no  real  comfort  in  writing  to  my  dearest 
sister  tiU  I  can  positively  say  our  day  of  leaving  this 
place  is  settled,  but  xmcertainty  is  the  lot  of  mortal  man, 
and  I  can  only  say  I  hope  we  shall  be  able  to  keep  to  the 
time  I  named.  But  my  Lord  Carteret's  marriage  and  the 
Duke  of  Devonshire's  hurry  upon  first  coming  over,  have 
I  suppose  not  given  them  leave  to  settle  about  Irish 
aSairs.  D.D.  was  at  the  Diike  of  Devonshire's  levee ; 
his  favorite  chaplain  the  Dean  of  Down  they  say  stands 
fair  for  a  bishopric  ;  if  so  his  betters  must  wait  till  another 
vacancy.  This  week  must  determine  it,  and  I  am  sure  it 
wiU  finish  my  patience  if  it  does  not  finish  this  affair  ; 
we  dine  to-morrow  in  Arlington  Street.     I  have  not  yet 


^  '*  Married,  May  1744,  Thomas  Foley,  Esq,  knight  of  the  shire  for  the 
county  of  Hereford,  to  Mrs.  Catharine  Gwyn,"  his  fifth  wife ! 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  297 

seen  bride  or  bridegroom,  but  have  seen  all  the  rest  of  the 
family.    Yesterday  Lady  Carteret  was  presented  at  Court, 
vastly  fine  in  gold  brocade  and  jewels.  In  the  evening  Lady 
Dysart's  son  was  christened ;  the  King  stood  in  person,  the 
other  gossips  Lord  and  Lady  Carteret.     So  much  for  the 
great  and  magnificent.  Lady  Oxford  comes  to  town  to-day, 
which  ¥rill  rob  me  of  some  happy  minutes.     The  Xtning 
is  to  be  next  Thursday,  the  name  Edward,  the  gossips 
Lady  Oxford,  Lord  Limerick  and   Lord   Foley.     Last 
Thursday  Don,  D.D.,  my  brother,  Mr.  and  Mrs  Brinsden, 
and  myself,  went  to  St.  Paul's  and  got  very  good  places 
in  the  choir,  and  I  never  was  more  delighted  with  music 
in  my  life.     After  it  was  over  my  brother  proposed  our 
dining  at  Pontack*s,  which  we  accepted  you  may  believe, 
and  passed  a  pleasant   day  :  my  brother  was  in  good 
spirits,  and  very  obliging,  and  you  know  how  very  de- 
lightful that  is  to  me.      Mrs.  Delahay  has  brought  my 
new  gown  to  try,  yours  is  made  up  without  a  lining,  the 
wrong  side  is  as  good  as  the  right,  and  it  will  be  too  hot 
for  summer  if  you  line  it.    The  Duk^  of  Portland,  Mr. 
Drummond,  Mr.  Achard,  two  Mr.  Delanys — (relations 
of  D.D's.,)  and  my  brother,  dine  with  me  to-day,  and 
this  morning  I  expect  Lady  Bridget  Bastard'  to  see  my 
house,  and  take  it  I  hope.     So  all  I  can  say  more  is  our 
affectionate  duty,  love,  and  service  attend  the  dear  in- 
habitants of  Calwich. 

A  letter  without  signature,  at  this  period,  but  evidently  from 
Mrs.  Foley  or  one  of  her  sisters,  gives  a  curious  account  of  the 
wages  of  the  ladies'  maids,  or  waiting-women  of  that  time.  The 
writer  says  that  a  person  who  wishes  for  the  place  of  her  own  woman, 


'  Pollexfen  Bastard,  of  Eitley,  Esq.,  married  Lady  Bridget  Poulett,  daugh- 
ter of  John,  Ist  Earl  Poulett. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


298  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE. 

says,  she  has  had  £4  a-year,  with  an  addition  in  other  waya  of  the 
value  of  £4  more,  but  that  ahe  **  can  only  wash  head-things  and 
aprons,  and  has  never  washed  larger  things,  but  would  learn  to  do 
the  additional  things  necessary ;"  and  the  writer  asks  Mrs.  Dewes 
^*  if  it  is  possible  that  a  person  who  had  received  such  high  wages 
cotUd  have  done  so  little?*^  She  also  mentions  a  letter  from  Lady 
Fanny  Carteret,  saying  that  Lord  Granville  "  designs  to  carry  his 
consort  into  Bedfordshire  for  a  fertiught,  just  to  show  her  the  beau- 
ties of  Hawnes,"  and  adds,  *'  Poor  Lady  Carteret  did  often  wish  for 
such  a  journey  tvitAaut  her  Governess^  but  never  did  obtain  it ! 
but  I  hope  in  the  regions  she  is  now  in  she  wants  no  change  or 
liberty.'* 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Clarges  Street,  April  26,  1744. 

Our  day  was  fixed  for  leaving  this  place  next  Wednes- 
day, most  of  my  things  packed  up,  but  the  affair  not 
being  decided,  my  brother  and  other  wise  politicians  say 
it  would  be  absurd  to  go  out  the  way  just  at  the  time 
that  there  is  a  struggle  between  the  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire and  Lord  Carteret.  Which  will  get  the  better  can- 
not so  much  as  be  guess'd  at,  but  I  fear  our  friend  will 
be  defeated,  though  surely  next  week  we  shall  know  our 
doom  and  be  set  at  liberty,  and  then  I  shall  fly  to  Cal- 
wich  and  be  happy.  You  can  very  well  imagine  how 
perplexing  these  delays  have  been  to  me,  but  I  will  name 
no  more  days,  nor  do  you  think  of  any,  but  as  soon  as  I 
may  come  you  know  I  shall.  We  have  been  this  morn- 
ing to  see  Sir  John  Stanley,  whom  we  found  pretty  well. 
Mrs.  Brinsden  came  to  me  at  nine,  then  Mrs.  Delahay, 
then  Miss  Yate — her  sister  is  married  to  Captain  Elton^ 

1  Caroline,  yonngest  daughter  of  Charles  and  Elizabeth  Tate,  of  Arlingbsun. 
in  the  county  of  Gloucester,  married  Jacob,  second  son  of  Sir  Abraham  Elton, 
Bart. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  299 

and  we  dine  at  the  Perdvals.  Beading  this  is  enough 
to  put  yon  into  a  hurry  of  the  spirits,  what  was  it  to  me 
in  the  operation  ?  Our  dear  Duchess  is  very  well,  and 
on  Saturday  night  all  her  ceremonies  will  be  over,  but 
she  is  so  good  and  careM  as  never  to  go  out  till  the 
fifth  week.  Sir  Clement  Cotterell  called  here  this  morning 
when  we  were  out,  very  likely  he  had  some  news  to  tell  us. 
Take  care  of  riding,  as  now  you  are  a  little  cowardly  it 
may  be  dangerous. 

I  am  come  home  to  take  care  of  my  dear  D  J), 
who  is  not  well ;  he  complains  very  much  of  his  head, 
and  is  just  going  to  take  hartshorn  and  sack  whey,  and 
go  to  bed ;  I  hope  a  good  night's  rest  will  cure  him.  I 
am  very  well.  Yesterday  my  brother  gallantly  attended 
Mrs.Donnellan,Miss  Dashwood,  and  myself  to  bresikfast  at 
Banelagh,  the  day  was  clear  but  cold  :  there  was  a  great 
deal  of  company.  D.D.  was  obliged  to  go  into  the.  City, 
where  I  believe  he  caught  his  cold ;  I  invited  my  brother 
home  with  me  ;  he  was  in  a  very  easy  good  humour,  and 
staid  till  past  seven. 

Good  night,  all  health  and  happiness  attend  you.  Duty, 
love,  and  service  to  Calwich.  I  am  glad  my  dear  godson 
continues  well.     I  am,  more  than  I  can  express,  yours. 

Eanelagh,  a  public  garden,  opened  in  1742,  on  the  site  of  the 
gardens  of  Banelagh  House,  eastward  of  Chelsea  Hospital ;  and 
originally  projected  by  Lacy,  the  patentee  of  Drury-lane  Theatre, 
as  a  sort  of-  winter  Vauxhall ;  the  Botunda,  185  feet  in  diameter, 
had  a  Doric  portico,  an  arcade  and  gallery  outside.  There  was  also 
a  Venetian  pavilion  in  the  centre  of  a  lake,  upon  which  the  company 
were  rowed  in  boats;  and  a  print  of  1751,  shows  the  ground 
planted  with  trees  and  aU^  vertes ;  the  several  buildings  were 
designed  by  Capon,  the  eminent  scene-painter.  The  interior  was 
fitted  with  boxes  for  refreshments,  and  in  each  was  a  painting ;  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


800  LIFE  AND  COBRESPONDENCE 

the  centre  was  an  ingenious  heating  apparatus,  concealed  by  arches, 
porticoes  and  niches,  paintings,  &c.,  and  supporting  the  ceiling, 
which  was  decorated  with  celestial  figures,  festoons  of  flowers,  and 
arabesques,  and  lighted  by  circles  of  chandeliers. 

The  Botunda  was  opened  with  a  public  breakfast,  April  5th,  1742. 
Walpole  describes  the  high  fashion  of  Ranelagh  :-^"  The  Prince, 
Princess,  Dukes,  much  nobility,  and  much  mob  besides  were  there." 
*  My  Lord  Chesterfield  is  so  fond  of  it,  that  he  says  he  has  ordered 
all  his  letters  to  be  directed  thither."  The  admission  was  one 
shilling ;  but  the  ridottoe,  with  supper  and  music,  were  one  guinea 
Concerts  were  also  given  here — Dr.  Ame  composed  the  music, 
Tenducci  and  Mara  sang,  and  here  were  first  publicly  performed  the 
compositions  of  the  Catch  Club ;  fireworks  and  a  mimic  Etna  were 
next  introduced ;  and  lastly  masquerades,  described  in  Fielding's 
*^  Amelia,"and  satirized  in  the  "  Connoisseur."  But  the  promenade 
of  the  Botundii  to  the  music  of  the  orchestra  and  organ  declined. 

The  peace  fete  took  place  here  in  1803.  Sanelagh  was  then 
deserted,  and  in  1804  the  buildings  were  taken  down. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Glarges  Street,  8  May,  1744. 

Well,  my  dear  sister,  I  told  you  that  I  should  not 
write  to  you  this  post,  and  I  should  have  been  as  good 
as  my  word  but  that  the  Dean  of  Dovon  desires  me  to 
make  his  compliments  to  you,  and  to  present  his  bumble 
duty  to  my  mother.  He  has  a  most  sincere  regard  for 
you,  and  only  wishes  and  waits  for  an  opportunity  of 
telling  you  so  in  person  ;  in .  the  mean  time  hopes  you 
will  accept  of  his  devoirs  from  my  hand,  and  I  beheve 
there  is  nobody  in  England  eicepting  myself  (and  D.D. 
is  not  jealous  I  assure  you)  for  whom  he  has*  a  greater 
value,  and  we  have  had  several  prif  ate  conferences  on 
that  subject  as  well  as  many  others.     I  am  very  glad  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  301 

find,  by  your  letter  to  my  brother,  that  you  did  not  ap- 
prehend D.D.  to  be  as  bad  as  he  really  was :  but  I  suf- 
fered greatly,  for  nobody  for  the  time  could  suffer  more 
than   he   did,  but   I   thank  Qod  he  mends  very  fast. 
Yesterday  he  din'd  in  the  parlour,  and  just  as  dinner 
came  upon  the  table,  Lord  Carteret  came  to  the  door 
and  came  in.     He  desired  we  would  send  the  servants 
away,  and  when  they  were  gone  he  told  D.D.  he  was 
come  from  the  Duke  of  Devonshire  to  offer  him  the 
Deanary  of  Down,^  and  that  the  first  small  bishoprick 
that   fell  in  he  might  have   if  he  cared  afterwards  to 
quit  Down;   but  the  deanry  is   a  much  better  thing 
than  any  small  bishopric,  and  we  are  well  pleased  with 
the  possession  of  it.     As  soon  as  D.D.  is  well  enough 
to  go  abroad  he  is   to  kiss  hands,   bu^  that  cannot 
possibly    be    till  the   beginning    of  the    week,   which 
wiU  put  off  the  happy  hour  of  our  meeting  still  longer. 
Our  dear  Duchess  raps  at  the  door,  and  this  cannot  be 
finished  'tiU   she  is  gone :  she  is  pure  well, — ^but  has 
staid  so  long  I  can  say  but  little  more.     I   shall  send 
to  my  brother  your  new   gown  to  send  because  you 
may  .want  to  wear  it,   and  two  prints  for  you  of  the 
Giant's  Causeway,   which  I   desire  your  acceptance  of, 
they   are  curiosities.     Well,   good  night,   I  must  sign 
and  seal. 

I  am  yours,  my  dearest  sister. 

With  the  utmost  tenderness, 

M.  D. 
Duty,  love,  and  service  as  due. 


1  Among  the  ecclesiastical  preferments  recorded  in  the  *'  London  Magazine  " 
for  May,  1744,  is  the  following  entry — "  Dr.  Thomas  Fletcher,  made  Bishop 
of  Dromore,  and  Dr.  Patrick  Delany,  Bean  of  Down  in  his  room." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


302  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

After  the  letter  of  8th  of  May,  a  period  intervenes  of  more 
than  five  weeks,  probably  spent  at  Calwich  with  her  mother  and 
sister — the  next  date  being  Chester,  where  Mary  Granville  once 
more  found  herself,  after  an  interval  of  thirteen  years  since  she 
had  passed  through  that  city  on  her  way  to  Ireland,  determined 
to  conquer  her  attachment  to  Lord  Baltimore.  How  well  those  years 
had  been  employed  in  maturing  her  judgment,  strengthening  her 
principles,  and  cultivating  every  opportunity  of  improvement,  her 
letters  fully  prove,  till  she  again  landed  in  Ireland  with  a  companion 
who  knew  how  to  value  the  superiority  of  her  mind,  and  the 
versatility  of  her  talents. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  her  Mother  and  Sister, 

Chester,  Wednesday,  18  June,  1744. 

I  dare  not  trust  myself  with  saying  anything  on  the 
subject  my  heart  is  fdllest  of,  but  wiU  endeavour  to 
satisfy  my  dearest  mama  and  sister  with  an  account  of 
our  travels,  which  have  hitherto,  I  thank  God,  been 
prosperous.  The  weather  was  yesterday  excessively  hot, 
and  we  wanted  the  comfortable  breezes  of  Calwich.  We 
breakfasted  at  Cheedle,  (your  good  cake  we  eat  in  the 
coach,)  and  arrived  at  Trentham,  where  we  dined,  about 
half  an  hour  after  twelve :  there  we  both  had  courage 
to  name  our  friends  at  Calwich,  but  till  then  I  could 
not  venture  to  mention  you — that  wants  no  explanation 
to  you*  The  roads  were  very  good,  for  we  had  no 
occasion  to  get  out  of  the  coach  the  whole  way ;  we  did 
not  get  to  Nantwych  till  near  nine,  the  road  rocky, 
and  the  miles  Worcestershire  miles  ;  our  inn  was  a  poor 
one,  but  your  excellent  chicken  furnished  us  with  an 
admirable  repast,  for  which  we  were  not  ungrateftd. 
We  had  a  good  bed  and   civil  landlady,  and  got   to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  303 

Chester  to-day  at  twelve  o'clock,  where  we  have  a  good 
lodging  and  provision.  The  yacht  is  to  sail  to-morrow 
at  eleven,  at  which  honr  please  God  we  shall  be  at  the 
water-side.  Mrs.  Henery,  the  lady  that  was  to  have 
gone,  does  not  go  yet,  so  the  yacht  is  to  return  for  her,  and 
the  weather  is  so  good  the  captain  says  though  the  wind  is 
not  directly  fair  he  does  not  fear  making  a  good  passage. 
I  have  also  sent  you  the  Bishop  of  Cloyne's  book  on  tar- 
water,  for  your  amusement,  and  two  volumes  of  enormous 
size  for  my  lovely  godson :  I  could  not  get  the  second 
without  the  first,  and  thought  he  might  be  gallant  and 
make  a  present  to  Miss  Jenny  of  one.  I  shall  keep  Frank 
till  we  are  on  board,  as  you  desired  me  to  do,  and  shall 
have  no  time  to-morrow  morning  to  add  to  my  letter,  but 
must  refer  you  to  Frank  to  tell  you  all  that  happens 
to-night.  Since  dinner  we  have  taken  a  nap,  made  up 
our  accoxmts  with  our  fine  landlady,  walked  round  the 
town,  and  seen  the  library,  which  is  a  beautiful  Gothic 
\)uilding.  The  poor  Dean  has  had  the  headache  all  day, 
but  is  now  better;  his  best  respects  and  kind  wishes 
are  your  constant  attendants.  It  is  unnecessary  for  me  to 
tell  you  he  exerted  himself  to  keep  up  my  spirits,  and 
indeed  his  own  wanted  some  support ;  and  I  must  say 
I  saw  it  with  satisfaction — ^for  to  have  the  friends  I 
love  best,  love  one  another,  is  the  height  of  happiness 
to  me.  So,  my  dear  mama  and  sister  adieu,  I  am  very 
well  and  in  surprising  spirits,  and  beg  you  will  have  no 
anxiety  about  me.  I  will  write  as  soon  as  I  get  to 
Delville,  but  as  the  winds  are  concerned  you  may  not 
receive  it  so  soon  as  your  impatience  will  wish  for  it. 
William  Curl  is  here  and  is  grown  prodigiously.     Supper 


Digitized  by 


Google 


304  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

is  coming,  and  once  more  adieu.    No  words  can  say  how 
much  and  how  tenderly 

I  am  yours, 

M.D. 

Friday  nine  o'clock,  Chester.  As  it  is  now  likely  we 
may  stay  here  some  time,  I  cannot  keep  Frank  any 
longer,  and  as  I  know  you  may  in  aU  probability  hear 
the  occasion  of  my  staying  in  a  way  that  may  alarm  you, 
I  think  it  best  to  acquaint  you  with  D.D's  illness  by  my 
own  hand.  I  thank  God  he  is  much  better,  and  the 
worst  I  hope  is  over.  He  was  taken  ill  on  Friday  night 
after  I  had  wrote  this  letter ;  he  complained  of  the  head- 
ache all  day,  and  in  the  evening  had  a  direct  fever  fit 
which  lasted  the  greatest  part  of  yesterday.  I  sent  for 
an  apothecary,  but  I  would  not  venture  any  farther 
without  better  advice,  and  so  sent  for  Dr.  Gore,  a  physi- 
cian in  great  repute  here,  who  gave  him  the  bark  as 
soon  as  he  found  his  fever  would  allow  of  it.  He  is  fret 
from  fever  this  morning,  and  I  hope  in  God  he  will  have 
no  return  of  it !  the  doctor  thinks  he  will  not.  I  have 
sent  for  Dr.  Barber  to  come  over  to  us  from  Ireland  to 
attend  him  for  the  voyage,  but  the  yacht  will  not  be 
back  till  the  20th  of  this  month.  All  events  are  guided 
by  the  Great  Disposer  of  all  things ;  so  I  keep  up  my 
own  spirits  and  am  very  well,  and  hope  by  Saturday's 
post  to  give  you  a  good  account  ef  my  own  D.D. :  in  the 
meantime  I  entreat  you  and  my  dearest  mama  not 
to  be  too  anxious  about  us,  but  hope  for  the  best 
as  I  do.  As  ill  news  flies  apace,  I  feared  you  might 
by  some  means  or  other  hear  this,  or  I   would  have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  805 

spared  you  the  pain  of  knowing  it  till  it  had  been 
quite  over.  Write  to  me  by  the  post  and  direct  for  me 
at  Mrs.  Kenna's,  Chester ;  and  if  I  should  be  gone,  Mrs. 
Kenna  will  send  it  after  me ;  she  is  a  very  pretty  kind  of 
woman,  and  we  are  fortunate  that  this  unhappy  delay 
happened  in  so  good  a  house. 


Mra,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at   Bradley^  Worcestershire^  to  he  left  at  Mr, 
Fhmips%  Apotheoaryy  in  Droitvfioh. 

DeMUe,  28  June,  1744. 

I  much  fear  my  dearest  sister  has  had  some  anxious 
hours  if  not  days  on  our  account.  How  impatient  have 
I  been  to  let  you  know  how  happily  and  well  we  have 
performed  our  journey;  and  to  crown  all  I  was  wel- 
comed to  Delville  by  your  dear  letter  of  the  14th  instant — 
a  fortunate  omen.  I  wrote  to  you  from  Chester  on 
Saturday  last  the  23rd,  and  sent  that  letter  round  about, 
foi^:as  yours  did  not  come  to  me  as  it  ought  to  do  in  time 
by  the  cross-post,  I  would  not  venture  it  that  way.  On 
Sunday  evening  we  removed  from  Chester  to  Park-Gte,te, 
in  hopes  of  sailing  next  morning  early,  but  the  wind  was 
contrary,  and  we  were  obliged  to  remain  there  all 
Monday.  We  were  so  lucky  as  to  get  a  very  clean,  good 
lodging,  and  on  Tuesday  morning  went  on  board  the 
yacht.  Though  the  wind  was  not  very  fair,  the  weather 
was  so  good  that  the  captain  said  we  might  make  our  ^ 
passage  very  well,  which  I  thank  God  we  did  and  landed 
yesterday  between  eight  and  nine.  We  did  not  come 
directly  to  DelviUe  it  being  so  late,  but  packed  away  bag 
and  baggage  and  went  to  Mrs.  Forde's,  who  expected  us 
to  lie  at  her  house:  she  is  a  very  wellbred,  friendly, 
agreeable  woman,  and  I  was  perfectly  easy  with  her  and 

VOL.  u.  x 


Digitized  by 


Google 


306  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

had  a  most  comfortable  bed.  On  Taesday  the  day  was 
80  fine  that  I  sat  on  deck  the  whole  day  and  eat  a  very 
good  dinner  and  an  egg  for  my  snpper,  and  worked 
and  drew  two  or  three  sketches ;  nothing  could  be  more 
pleasant ;  you  would  have  been  pleased  and  not  the  least 
afraid :  but  we  went  on  slowly  not  having  wind  enough. 
In  the  evening  the  weather  grew  more  favourable  for  our 
sailing,  but  made  the  ship  roll,  and  we  were  very  ill  all 
night,  and  the  next  day  till  about  5,  that  they  came  to 
the  cabin  and  said  we  were  just  entering  the  bay  of 
Dublin ;  upon  which  we  got  up,  and  were  soon  cored  by 
the  good  weather  and  fair  prospect  of  landing  soon. 

This  morning  after  breakfast  we  called  on  Barber, 
who  was  truly  transported  with  seeing  us ;  she  looks  tole- 
rably well,  and  enquired  very  much  after  you  and  all 
my  friends.  My  impatience  to  see  Delville  and  read  my 
dear  sister's  letter  shortened  my  visit  there,  and  we  arrived 
at  our  own  pleasant  dwelling  by  1 1, — ^and  never  was  seen 
a  sweeter  dwelling.  I  have  traversed  the  house  and  gar- 
dens, and  never  saw  a  more  delightful  and  agreeable  place, 
but  particulars  must  come  by  degrees,  and  I  have  now 
the  joy  of  seeing  the  kind  and  generous  owner  of  it  per- 
fectly well,  and  well  pleased  to  put  me  in  possession. 

We  are  just  going  to  dinner,  and  I  must  get  all  my 
letters  ready  to  send  before  dinner,  so  that  it  is  impossible 
for  me  to  say  the  hundreth  part  of  what  my  heart  is  full, 
and  to  thank  you  as  I  wish  to  do  for  your  letter  that  met 
me  here,  but  I  hope  to  have  leisure  when  my  head  and 
afiairs  are  not  so  confused  as  they  are  at  present  to  make 
a  better  return.  Every  tender  word  of  my  dearest  sister  s 
touches  my  heart,  and  is  most  j&ithfully  returned  with 
the  sincerest  love, — a  love  that  has  increased  with  our 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DBLANY.  807 

years,  and  must  and  will  still  iiicrease.  Donotaaylsaa 
"  last  to  you " — I  cannot  bear  that  expression,  for  I  am 
everywhere  yours,  aud  ready  to  assist  and  advise  you  on  all 
occasions  to  the  best  of  my  power;  when  absent,  by  the 
blessed  means  of  writing  we  may  assist  each  other  and  be 
a  mutual  support  and  delight,  and  many  days  and  months 
I  hope  we  shall  spend  together.  As  soon  as  I  examined 
my  house  to-day  I  laid  out  an  apartment  for  you,  and  I 
hope  soon  you  will  provide  the  same  for  me  at  Welsbome. 
I  shall  wish  to  have  you  settle  all  affairs  there,  and  to 
hear  of  your  safe  arrival  at  Gloucester.  I  hope  my  mother 
has  not  left  you  yet,  but  for  fear  she  should  I  shall  write 
a  word  or  two  to  Mrs.  Duncomb  to  let  her  know  of 
my  safe  arrival^  that  she  may  communicate  it  to  my 
mother,  to  whom  I  shall  write  as  soon  as  I  know  she  is  at 
Gloucester.  My  love  and  blessing  to  the  dear,  happy  boy, 
that  flourishes  under  your  care ;  I  don't  apprehend  you 
will  be  too  indulgent,  and  you  know  the  way  to  save  your- 
self pain  is  to  have  a  thorough  command  of  your  children 
when  they  are  very  young.  My  very  kind  service  to  Mr. 
Dewes  and  best  duty  to  mama :  the  Dean  joins  with  me 
in  all  I  say,  and  is  yours  most  affectionately. 


Mn,  DtiUmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  Bradley. 

Dublin,  12  July,  1744. 

I  begin  to  my  dear  sister  before  my  usual  day,  as  I 
intend  to  enclose  it  to  the  Duke  of  Portland,  and  he  is 
at  Bulstrode,  which  will  make  this  letter  a  day  or  two 
longer  in  its  progress.  I  am  now  in  Dames  Street 
waiting  for  the  raree  show  of  the  city  militia,  who  are 
all  in  their  regimentals,  and,  they  say,  make  a  most 
gallant  show ;  but  I  am  willing  to  secure  a  real  pleasure 
to  myself,  therefore  take  this  interval  to  write  to  my  dear 

X  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


308  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

sister  in  the  midst  of  so  great  a  noise  and  hurry  of 
people  and  coaches  that  I  hardly  know  what  I  write. 
Before  I  left  DelviUe  this  morning  I  wrote  to  my 
mother,  and  have  directed  it  to  Gloucester,  supposing 
her  by  this  time  settled  there,  and  I  hope  you  are  on 
the  wing  to  Welsboume. 

Last  Sunday  I  made  my  first  appearance  at  St.  War- 
bor  s  church.  (I  refer  you  to  my  mother's  letter  for 
more  particulars).  In  the  afternoon  I  had  a  great  deal 
of  company :  the  Bishop  of  Down  *  and  his  lady ;  Mrs. 
Kelly  (Mr.  Kelly's  wife,  nephew  to  Sir  John  Stajiley), 
an  extremely  pretty  lively  woman ;  the  eldest  Miss  Forth, 
and  Miss  Monck,  sister  to  Harry  Monck ;  a  Mrs.  and 
Miss  Fowkes ;  and  Mrs.  Cope,  a  young  widow.  Monday 
morning  waited  three  hours  for  the  upholsterer,  and  set- 
tled some  of  my  shells  and  papers.  Miss  Parker  (the 
Curate's  sister),  and  Miss  Delany,  a  niece  of  the  Dean's, 
dined  with  me ;  both  very  modest  pretty  sort  of  women. 
I  dressed  in  my  airs  for  formal  visits,  and  just  as  I  was 
setting  out  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donnellan  came  in ;  they  made 
their  visit  short,  and  when  they  went  away  I  made  my 
visits  in  Dublin.  I  wish  you  had  just  such  a  chariot  as 
ours,  because  I  never  went  in  so  easy  a  one.  Yesterday 
morning  (for  Tuesday  I  spent  the  whole  day  in  settling 
shell  and  papers)  my  upholsterer  came,  and  my  new  apart- 
ment *will  be  very  handsome.  The  drawing-room  hung 
with  tapestry,  on  each  side  of  the  door  a  japan  chest,  the 
curtains  and  chairs  crimson  mohair,  between  the  win- 
dows large  glasses  with  gilt  frames,  and  marble  tables 
under  them  with  gilt  frames;  the  bedchamber  within 
hung  with  crimson  damask,  bed  chairs  and  curtains  the 

^  John  Ryder,  Bishop  of  Down  and  Connor,  in  1743,  translated  to  Arch- 
bishopric of  Tuam  in  1752.    Died  1775. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANTf.  309 

same;  the  doset  within  it  is  most  deKghtftil,  I  have  a 
most  extensive  and  beautiful  prospect  of  the  harbour 
and  town  of  Dublin  and  a  range  of  mountains  of  various 
shapes.  This  bedchamber  and  closet  are  on  the  left 
hand  of  the  drawing  room ;  on  the  right  is  a  very  pretty- 
square  room,  with  a  large  dressing  room  within  it,  which 
I  hope  will  be  my  dearest  sister  s  apartment,  when  she 
makes  me  happy  with  her  company. 

I  have  described  my  house  very  awkwardly  to  you,  but 
to  be  regular :  it  stands  on  a  rising  ground,  and  the  court 
is  large  enough  for  a  coach-and-six  to  drive  round  commo- 
diously.  The  front  of  the  house  is  simple  but  pretty — 
five  windows  in  front,  two  stories  high,  with  a  portico  at 
the  hall  door,  to  which  you  ascend  by  six  steps,  but  so 
well  sheltered  by  the  roof  of  the  portico  that  it  is  secured 
from  rain.  The  hall  is  26  f.  by  22,  and  12  f.  and  ^  high, 
the  ceiling  finished  in  compartments,  with  a  Doric  entab- 
lature in  stucco  round  the  room.  On  the  right  hand  is  the 
eating  parlour,  26  f.  long  and  16  f.  and  |  wide,  with 
a  projection  in  the  middle,  which  opens  thirteen  foot 
and  is  eight  foot  deep,  with  three  windows,  and  large 
enough  for  two  side-boards,  one  window  between  the 
tables  and  one  at  each  side,  which  lights  the  room 
very  agreeably:  it  is  a  very  charming  room,  cool  in 
smnmer  and  warm  in  winter ;  the  chimney  is  at  one  end 
and  a  window  over  against  it ;  on  th^  left  hand*  of  the 
hall  is  another  large  room,  which  at  present  is  unfinished 
but  is  designed  for  a  chapel  when  we  are  rich  enouerh  to 
finish  it  as  we  ought  to  do.  At  the  end  of  the  hall  is  a 
very  neat  stone  stair-case,  well  finished  with  stucco,  which 
leads  to  the  apartment  I  have  described  above.  Beyond 
the  stair-case,  below,  is  a  little  hall ;  on  the  right  hand  is 
^  small  parlour,  where  we  breakfast  and  sup,  out  of  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


310  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCE 

our  present  bedchamber  and  a  large  light  closet  within 
it ;  it  is  but  a  small  apartment,  but  very  pretty,  and  lies 
pleasantly  to  the  gardens,  and  as  we  sit  by  the  fire-side  we 
can  see  the  ships  ride  in  the  harbour.  From  the  door  of 
the  little  parlour  are  about  ten  steps  that  carry  you  to  my 
English  room,  and  another  flight  of  the  same  stairs  lead 
to  the  rooms  over  the  little  parlour,  and  bedchamber  and 
the  maids  rooms,  and  serve  for  back  stairs  to  the  great 
apartment.  I  have  been  three  times  called  from  my  letter 
to  look  at  the  militia,  and  really  they  are  a  noble  sight, 
very  well-looking  men  in  regimentals ;  three  regiments 
well  mounted  and  three  of  foot.  It  is  a  satisfaction  to  see 
so  many  brave  men  well  prepared  to  defend  us  in  case  we 
stand  in  need  of  their  assistance ;  but  if  the  news  is  true 
of  Prince  Charles  of  Lorraine's  victory  over  the  French 
and  Hessians  they  may  sheath  their  swords  in  peace. 
My  head  turns  round  with  the  tumult,  and  I  am  obliged 
to  defer  my  description  of  the  gardens  till  I  have  a  better 
opportunity ;  but  I  can  never  be  so  much  taken  up  but  I 
shall  fiind  time  to  tell  my  best  and  dearest  of  sisters  that 
I  am,  with  the  greatest  warmth  of  affection,  ever  hers. 

I  forgot  to  add,  that  out  of  my  English  room  you  go 
into  the  library,  which  is  most  pleritiftdly  filledy  and  D.D. 
has  filled  up  the  vacancies  of  my  shelves  with  the  modem 
poets  nicely  bound.^ 

Mrs,  Fortescu^  (Miss  Wesley  that  was  *)  came  in  by 

1  The  Editor  read  this  acoonnt  of  Delviiie  to  a  lady  who  knew  it  well,  who 
had  been  there  in  July,  1860,  and  who  stated  that  it  might  still  serve  for  a  de- 
scription of  that  place ;  also  that  she  had  seen  quantities  of  shells  in  heaps, 
which  had  evidently  been  pulled  down  to  repair  or  alter  buildings ;  but  that  Uie 
former  possessors,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mallet,  had  with  great  caie  preserved  some 
rooms  as  they  were. 

3  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  of  Richard  Wesley  (afterwards  created  Lord 
Momington),  married,  in  1743,  Chichester  Fortescue,  of  Dromisken,  comity 
liouth,  Esq.,  ancestor  of  the  present  Lord  Clermont,  1860.  ^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  311 

accident  to  the  house  where  I  was  this  morning  to  see 
the  show,  we  were  very  glad  to  meet  again.  She  came  to 
town  just  to  see  her  son,  and  goes  again  to-morrow.  She 
looks  very  well,  and  asked  very  particularly  after  you. 

The  following  letter  is  one  of  the  very  few  found  of  Mrs. 
Granville's,  and  is  interesting  &om  the  insight  given  into  the 
nursery  system  of  that  day.  The  little  Bernard  alluded  to  was 
then  at  a  &rm  or  cottage  with  his  nurse,  whether  he  was  weaned 
is  dcublfvly  but  as  he  dined  on  buttered  tumdps  it  is  not  a  matter 
of  astonishment  that  he  was  often  ilL 

Mrs.  GranviUe  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Friday,  10  at  night 

I  hope  my  dearest  Nanny  that  your  next  letter  will 
be  dated  from  Welsboume,  that  you'll  soon  dispatch  your 
affairs  there,  for  I  long  to  have  you  with  me  where 
1  hope  you'll  be  cosy  and  free  from  bustle  and  fatigue, 
which  at  this  time  you  should  not  have,  and  then  we 
shall  be  a  comfort  to  each  other  whatever  disorders 
attend  us.  I  have  had  Dr.  Capell  with  me  two  or  three 
times,  and  have  been  taking  some  medicines  he  prescribed 
twice  a  day.  Yesterday  I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing 
my  little  Banny  who  is  the  fairest  thing  I  ever  saw,  and 
very  lively ;  he  was  with  me  by  nine  o'clock,  and  staid 
till  five,  eat  buttered  turnips  for  his  dinner  heartily,  and 
a  mess  of  milk  and  bread  before  he  set  out  again.  In  my 
opinion  he  is  not  like  father,  mother,  or  brother,  but  the 
picture  of  your  poor  brother  Bevil ;  he  is  but  a  small  child 
but  tall  and  well-proportioned,  the  finest  skin  I  ever 
saw,  and  of  his  hair  I  shall  enclose  a  lock  for  you  to  see. 
Mrs.  Peters  and  the  nurse  send  their  duty,  and  the 
former  says  she  (and  her  husband)  dread  the    time  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


312  LIFE  AND  COEBESPONDENCE 

your  taking  him  away  from  them.  Mrs.  Pitt's  child  was 
made  a  Xtian  at  the  bishop's  p^ace  to-day,  his  lordship 
was  godfather,  Mr.  John  Webb  the  other,  and  little  Mrs. 
Webb  godmother. 

Mrs.  Viney  made  me  go  from  church  to-day  to  dine 
with  her,  which  is  the  first  visit  I  have  made  to  any- 
body, she  is  heartily  yours,  so  are  her  daughters ;  Mr. 
Hays  was  there  and  Smith,  and  we  had  a  good  deal  of 
music  vocal  and  instrumental.  Mrs.  Duncomb  was  here 
yesterday,  and  cards  the  entertainment.  Mrs.  Gaudinau 
has  quarrelled  with  the  H's,  so  they  don  t  now  meet  at 
aU,  and  they  are  sadly  put  to  it  for  parties  at  phy. 

Satorday. 

Mrs.  Peters  has  been  here,  and  tells  me  your  little 
boy  got  home  safe,  and  is  very  well.  I  thank  you  for  our 
"  dear  PearVs  "  letter  with  the  welcome  news  of  health, 
which  she  shows  by  the  spirit  she  writes  with ;  by  her 
discription  Delville  is  a  charming  place.  And  now  I 
can  add  no  more,  but  beg  you  to  make  haste  to  her 
that  cannot  express  with  how  much  affection  she  is 

Tours, 

M.  Granville. 

My  compliments  to  Mapleborough,  who  I  hope  are 
well ;  you  surprised  me  with  the  wedding  that  is  to 
be  at  your  house. 

Mn.  Dekmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  at  Bradley. 

DelviUe,  19  July,  1744. 

I  have  received  my  dearest  sister's  letters  dated  the 
80th  of  June,  the  6th  and  7th  of  this  month.    It  is  not  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  BfRS.  DBLANY.  313 

be  expressed  how  bappy  they  have  made  me,  especially  as 
I  have  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  your  fears  are  over 
for  me;  for  I  could  have  no  real  enjoyment  of  any 
thing  while  I  thought  you  were  anxious  about  me. 
I  wish  you  were  at  Gloucester,  for  I  think  you  have 
deferred  going  to  Welsboume  a  vast  while,  and  fear 
the  &tigue  wiU  be  too  much  for  you ;  don't  settle  any 
part  but  one  room  for  yourself;  the  rest  you  may  do  at 
your  return.  I  want  to  know  a  million  of  particulars 
about  it,  but  desire  you  to  defer  that  for  your  winter 
evenings'  amusements.  I  must  now  write  to  my  mother 
and  the  old  Countess,  who  has  wrote  two  very  kind  letters 
to  me,  and  I  expect  the  upholsterer  every  minute  to  put 
my  furniture  in  the  new  apartment.  I  wish  I  had  sent 
you  more,  for  this  house  is  so  Aill  it  will  hardly  hold  what 
I  have  brought.  You  may  have  seen  D.D.  mentioned 
in  the  newspapers  for  the  bishopric  of  Ferns,  but  I  hope 
it  will  not  be  offered  him,  at  least  not  these  two  months, 
for  till  then  he  will  not  be  entitled  to  the  rents  of  Down, 
and  it  will  do  us  more  harm  than^good,  and  the  income  is 
not  better.  I  wrote  to  my  brother  last  post  a  very  long 
and  kind  letter,  with  an  account  of  things  here,  and  an 
invitation  to  be  a  witness  and  sharer  of  my  happkiess — 
(such  a  letter  as  you  may  imagine)  but  I  should  not 
have  wrote  after  what  is  past  without  the  consent  of 
DJ).,  whose  generosity  and  tenderness  for  me  wiU  not 
let  him  oppose  any  thing  that  gives  me  satisfaction: 
it  is  the  second  letter  I  have  wrote  to  my  brother,  but  I 
have  not  yet  received  one  line  from  him.^ 


^  This  sentence,  and  those  whioh  precede  it,  prove  that  Mr.  Granville  had 
not  got  over  his  objections  to  his  sister's  marriage  with  Dr.  Delany,  and  that 
althoogh  they  were  on  speaking  terms,  and  met  in  London,  that  there  was  no 


Digitized  by 


Google 


314  LIFE  AND  OOBRESFONDENGE 

I  believe  I  have  received  all  your  dear  letters  safe ; 
those  directed  to  Chester  were  all  sent  after  me.  I  hope 
mine  have  had  as  good  success  in  their  progress.  I 
have  had  letters  from  almost  all  my  considerable  carre^ 
spondenta  in  England,  which  furnish  me  with  abun* 
dance  of  employment.  I  shall  be  glad  when  I  have 
time  for  sketches,  but  I  believe  that  can  hardly  be  this 
year;  I  have  had  twenty  visitors  abready,  and  have  re- 
turned but  two.  I  wish  I  could  give  you  an  idea  of  our 
garden^  but  the  describing  it  puzzles  me  extremely ;  the 
back  part  of  the  house  is  towards  a  bowling-green,  that 
slopes  gently  off  down  to  a  little  brook  that  runs  through 
the  garden ;  on  the  other  side  of  the  brook  is  a  high  bank 
with  a  hanging  wood  of  ever-greens,  at  the  top  of  which 
is  a  circular  terrace  that  surrounds  the  greatest  part  of  the 
garden,  the  wall  of  which  is  covered  with  fruit-trees,  and 
on  the  other  side  of  the  walk  a  border  for  flowers,  and  the 
greatest  quantity  of  roses  and  sweet  briar  that  ever  I 
saw ;  on  the  right  hand  of  the  bowling-green  towards  the 
bottom  is  placed  our  hay-rick,  which  is  at  present 
making,  and  from  our  parlour -window  and  beddiamber  I 
can  see  the  men  work  at  it,  and  have  a  full  view  of  what 
I  have  described;  and  beyond  that  pleasant  meadows, 
bounded  by  mountains  of  various  shapes,  with  little  vil- 
lages and  country-seats  interspersed  and  embosomed  high 
in  tufted  trees:  to  complete  the  prospect  a  full  view 
of  Dublin  harbour,  which  is  always  fuU  of  shipping,  and 


cordiality,  and  that  Mrs.  Delany  considered  Dr.  Delany  so  much  aggrieved  that 
she  would  not  have  written  to  her  brother  without  his  sanction.  The  letter 
from  Chester  did  not  contain  any  message  to  Mr.  Granville,  though  she  and  the 
Bean  had  been  at  Calwich  to  visit  her  mother  (Mrs.  Granville)  and  Mrs.  Dewes. 
It  is  therefore  evident  that  Mr.  Granville  was  absent,  and  that  fact  might  of 
itself  account  for  her  allusion  to  the  "  jxis^." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  815 

looks  at  this  instant  beautiful  beyond  all  description: 
these  are  the  views  from  the  house  next  the  gardens.  On 
the  left  hand  of  the  bowling-green  is  a  terrace- walk  that 
takes  in  a  sort  of  a.parterre,  that  will  make  the  prettiest 
orangery  in  the  world,  for  it  is  an  oval  of  green,  planted 
round  in  double  rows  of  elm-trees  and  flowering  shrubs, 
with  little  grass  walks  between  them,  which  will  give  a 
good  shelter  to  exotics.  The  terrace  I  just  mentioned 
is  bounded  at  one  end  by  a  wall  of  good  fruit,  in  which 
there  is  a  door  that  leads  to  another  very  large  hand- 
some terrace-walk,  with  double  rows  of  large  elms,  and 
the  walk  well  gravelled,  so  that  we  may  walk  securely  in 
any  weather.  On  the  left  hand,  the  ground  rises  very 
considerably,  and  is  planted  with  aU  sort  of  trees.  About 
half  way  up  the  walk  there  is  a  path  that  goes  up  that 
bank  to  the  remains  of  an  old  castle  (as  it  were),  from 
whence  there  is  an  unbounded  prospect  all  over  the 
country :  under  it  is  a  cave  that  opens  with  an  arch  to 
the  terrace-walk,  that  will  make  a  very  pretty  grotto ;  and 
the  plan  I  had  laid  for  my  brothers  at  Calwich  (this  being 
of  that  shape,  though  not  quite  so  large)  I  shall  execute 
here.  At  the  end  of  this  terrace  is  a  very  pretty  portico, 
prettily  painted  within  and  neatly  finished  without ;  you 
go  up  a  high  slope  to  it,  which  gives  it  a  mighty  good  air 
as  you  come  up  the  walk  :  from  thence  you  go  on  the  right 
hand  to  the  green  terrace  I  mentioned  at  first,  which 
takes  in  the  whole  compass  of  this  garden  ;  in  the  middle, 
sloping  from  the  terrace,  every  way,  are  the  fields,  or 
rather  paddocks,  where  our  deer  and  our  cows  are  kept, 
and  the  rurality  of  it  is  wonderfully  pretty.  These  fields 
are  planted  in  a  wild  way  with,  forest-trees  and  tmth  bushes, 
that  look  so  naturally  you  would  not  imagine  it  the  work 


Digitized  by 


Google 


316  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

of  art.  Besides  this,  there  is  a  very  good  kitchen-garden 
and  two  fruit-gardens,  which,  when  proper  repairs  are 
made  and  they  are  set  in  order,  will  afford  us  a  sufl&dent 
quantity  of  every  thing  we  can  want  of  that  kind. 
There  are  several  prettinesses  I  can't  explam  to  you — 
little  wild  walks,  private  seats,  and  lovely  prospects. 
One  seat  particularly  I  am  very  fond  of,  in  a  nut  grove, 
and  "  the  beggar's  hut''  which  is  a  seat  in  a  rock ;  on  the 
top  are  bushes  of  all  kind  that  bend  over :  it  is  placed  at 
the  end  of  a  cunning  wild  path,  thick  set  with  trees,  and 
it  overlooks  the  brook,  which  entertains  you  with  a  purhng 
rill.  The  little  robins  are  as  fond  of  this  seat  as  we 
are :  it  just  holds  the  Dean  and  myself,  and  I  hope  in 
God  to  have  many  a  tete-a-tete  there  with  my  own  dear 
sisf  ;  but  I  have  had  such  a  hurryof  business  within 
doors,  and  so  many  visitors,  that  I  have  not  spent  half 
so  much  time  in  this  sweet  garden  as  I  want  to  do. 

I  am  afraid  this  will  prove  an  incomprehensible  descrip- 
tion ;  but  if  it  does  but  whet  your  desire  of  seeing  it, 
that  is  sufficient  for  me.  Monday  I  invited  all  the 
Barber^  race,  and  our  good  old  friend,  though  she  had  the 
gout  upon  her  and  was  forced  to  be  lifted  out  upon 
men's  shoulders,  came,  and  was  delighted  with  my  new 
room,  and  seemed  very  happy  to  see  me  mistress  of  this 
charming  place.  She  has  a  true  sense  of  your  worth,  and 
we  never  meet  but  she  talks  incessantly  of  the  "  fow/y 
pearly  Dewes'' 

Poor  Mira  (Barber)  is  a  melancholy  drooping  young 
woman,  and  I  wish  a  prospect  of  her  being  well  settled; 


Mrs.  Barber,  of  Glasnevm,  was  the  same  Mrs.  Barber  so  often  mentioned 
as  the  poetess  so  much  patronized  by  Dean  Swift^  who  visited  England  to  obtain 
subscribers  for  her  productions. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  817 

but  I  hear  of  none.  To-day  I  expect  a  niece  of  Dr. 
Delany  s,  his  brother's  daughter ;  I  have  asked  her  to 
spend  a  few  days  here ;  she  seems  a  pretty  sort  of 
young  woman.  I  am  amazed  already  to  be  come  to  the 
eighth  page,  and  I  could  most  willingly  add  eight  more, 
but  time  will  not  serve,  and  I  must  finish  with  assuring 
you  of  D.D.'s  tender  regard  and  my  everlasting  love, 

M.  D. 

I  hope  you  received  my  letter  of  last  Thursday  (militia 
day).  I  am  uneasy  not  to  hear  from  Sally ;  I  hope  she 
is  well.  She  will  want  an  account  of  Delville ;  I  have 
not  time  at  present  to  send  her  one.  If  you  see  her 
read  her  what  you  think  will  entertain  her.     Adieu. 


Mrs,  Bdcmy  to  Mr$.  Dewes,  at  Bradley^  &c 

Delville,  26  July,  1744. 

My  dearest  sister,  who  warms  my  heart  every  moment 
of  my  life,  must  know  how  precious  this  day^  is  to  me  ; 
how  ardent  my  wishes  are  for  her  happiness,  that  I  may 
long  be  blest  with  such  a  friend,  and  that  length  of  days 
may  be  a  blessing  to  her!  D.D.  and  I  have  solaced 
ourselves  with  discoursing  of  you  early  this  morning,  and 
joined  in  kind  thoughts  of  and  wishes  for  our  loved  and 
lovely  Pearlt/  Dewes.^  I  was  rejoiced  with  your  last  dear 
letter  of  the  12th  July,  last  Tuesday  the  24th,  which  had 
the  winds  favoured  my  impatient  wishes,  would  sooner 


*  July  26,  Ann  Granville's  wedding-day. 

•  The  Pearl  was  a  name  given  to  Mrs.  Delany  by  the  Dean.  And  PeaHy 
Dey»  (or  Dew  Drop)  was  a  name  they  both  applied  to  Mrs^  Dewes,  whose 
portrait  gives  an  idea  that  the  countenance  and  complexion  well  deserved 
such  an  appellation. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


318  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDBNCB 

have  reached  my  hands.  A  thousand  thanks  for  the 
particular  account  you  give  me  of  yourself.  I  am  very  glad 
you  have  been  blooded/  for  with  so  much  bustle  as  you 
must  go  through  the  blood  cannot  but  be  a  little  heated. 
I  am  impatient  for  a  letter  from  Welsboume.  Some  of 
your  questions  I  have  already  answered.  The  solitude  of 
Bradley  was  really  too  rrmch  for  a  sociable  spirit  to  bear,  and 
I  shall  be  happy  to  have  you  in  a  neighbourhood  where 
you  may  have  some  conversation  a  little  better  suited 
to  your  own,  which  I  hope  will  be  the  case  at  Welsboume, 
at  least  you  will  have  a  comfortable  house,  and  that  is 
a  main  article  for  happiness  to  those  who  know  so  well 
how  to  enjoy  home  and  make  it  pleasant  to  your  friends, 
D.D.  had  institution  last  Tuesday  from  the  Bishop  of 
Down,  and  has  taken  out  his  patent,  so  now  he  is  a  Dean 
in  all  the  forms ;  we  propose  setting  out  for  Down  on 
Monday  se'night,  please  God  he  is  well.  I  hope  we  shall 
have  a  pleasant  jaunt,  but  I  believe  it  is  too  late,  and  the 
days  will,  be  too  much  shortened,  to  think  of  going  so  far 
northward  as  the  Giants'  Causeway,  which  is  above  fifty 
miles  from  Down.  Miss  Forth  (that  lived  with  Mrs. 
Clayton),  is  now  with  her  sister  Hamilton ;  they  are  in  our 
road  to  Down,  and  we  design  making  them  a  visit  in  the 
way.  To-day  we  are  to  dine  with  Mrs.  Ford.  We  have 
killed  a  second  buck — ^I  never  saw  finer  venison ;  it  would 
have  grieved  me  to  have  any  of  my  pretty  herd  kiUed,  had 
they  not  been  two  mischievous  old  rogues  that  have  almost 
killed  the  rest  with  their  great  imruly  horns.  What  a 
thing  must  Miss  Knightly  be  that  could  be  enamoured 


1  The  oonstant  bleeding  that  was  resorted  to  at  the  period  of  these  letters, 
renders  it  abnost  marveUous  that  anybody  ever  passed  the  age  of  forty,  osd 
prevents  all  surprise  at  the  frequency  of  deaths  after  illness. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY,  319 

with  Scardyrainsf  The  pleasure  you  take  in  " P  Oak*'^ 
pleases  the  Dean  excessively,  who  is  never  happier  than 
when  he  contributes  to  the  pleasure  of  his  friends.  I  have 
at  present  no  folio  paper  in  my  possession  but  what  is  so 
thick  it  is  not  fit  for  carriage ;  but  I  write  my  words  so 
much  closer  than  you  do,  that  I  beUeve  I  have  as  many 
words  in  a  quarto  as  you  have  in  a  foho,  and  I  am  sure 
I  have  not  wrote  above  three  sides  to  any  one  besides,  and 
those  in  my  large  hand.  I  expected  a  great  deal  of  busi- 
ness, but  not  so  much  as  I  find ;  I  have  workmen  of 
all  sorts  in  the  house — ^upholsterers,  joiners,  glaziers,  and 
carpenters — and  am  obhged  to  watch  them  all,  or  their 
work  would  be  but  ill*finished ;  and  I  have  not  been  one 
day  without  company  since  I  came.  I  have  a  young 
woman  now  in  the  house  with  me,  Miss  Delany,  very 
Kvely  and  good-humoured,  and  very  ready  to  assist  me 
in  anything  I  want'  to  have  done.  I  propose  having  her 
a  good  deal,  as  I  believe  it  may  be  some  adyantage  to 
her,  and  at  present  I  see  nothing  in  her  but  what  is 
very  agreeable.  Friday  and  Saturday  last  I  visited,  and 
Sunday  we  had  company  dined  with  us,  and  in  the  after- 
noon Lady  Bell  Monck,^  Mr.  Monck,  and  Miss  Kelly 
came  to  make  us  a  visit ;  they  came  twenty  miles  to  pay 
us  that  compliment ;  Lady  Bell  is  handsomer,  but  has  the 
same  pert  Miss  Notable  behaviour  she  used  to  have,  but 
was  very  civil ;  they  walked  in  the  garden,  and  she  had 
no  eyes  nor  understanding  to  see  that  it  was  not  a  common 
vulgar  garden,  and  she  did  not  commend  anything  she  saw 
— all  the  pearls  were  thrown  away !     On  Monday  eight 


^  Probably  an  allusion  to  some  poem  of  Dr.  Delany^s  on  the  old  oaks  of 
Bradley. 
'  Lady  Isabella  Bentinck,  married  in  1739  to  Henry  Monck,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


320  LIFE  AND  CX)ItRESPONDENGE 

gentlemen  dined  here,  old  friends  of  the  Dean's.  Mr. 
Steward  was  one  whom  I  mentioned  to  you  at  Chester, 
and  a  Mr.  Ludlow,  a  very  ingenious  gentleman  with  a 
vast  deal  of  humour,  but  so  reduced  by  the  gout  that 
he  was  carried  in  and  out  on  men's  shoulders :  he  is  very 
musical  and  understands  painting,  and  D.D,,  who  displays 
all  my  little  talents  to  their  best  advantage,  drew  many 
compliments  from  him  on  my  score.  Last  Tuesday  we 
dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Down's :  Mrs.  Eider,  his  lady,  is  a 
very  pretty  sort  of  woman,  and  a  great  friend  of  Lady 
North's.  I  am  always  in  haste  to  fly  home,  and  as  soon  as 
we  return  put  on  my  walking-dress  and  away  we  go  to  the 
garden,  and  though  you  complain  so  much  of  the  weather 
in  England,  there  have  past  few  days  but  what  we  have 
been  able  to  spend  some  time  in  the  garden.  Yesterday 
I  indulged  myself  at  home  all  day,  and  had  our  neighbours 
the  young  Barbers.  Mr.  Parker  and  his  sister  came  to  eat 
venison  with  us,  they  were  kept  for  the  evening,  and  sung 
ahd  were  very  merry.  I  remembered  it  was  the  eve  of 
one  of  my  great  festivals  ;^  and  I  kept  it  with  a  double 
pomp  of  gladness.  Adieu ;  every  tender  thought  and 
wish  of  the  most  affectionate  heart  attends  you. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  at  WeUed}oum,  near  Kineton^  Wanodk" 

shire. 

Delville,  28tli  August,  1744. 

What  joyful  news  was  it  to  me  to  hear  of  my  most 
dear  sister's  safe  arrival  at  Welsboume,  where  I  hope  she 
will  enjoy  every  blessing  her  heart  can  wish  for  and  be  as 
happy  as  she  makes  all  around  her  I     I  am  at  present  in 

*  "  My  great  festivals.*"    Alluded  to  Ann  Granville's  marriage. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  ^21 

a  great  hurry,  for  at  last  we  are  obliged  to  go  to  Down. 
The  Dean  thought  his  presence  might  have  been  dispensed 
with,  but  upon  examination  finds  there  are  forms  that 
cannot  be  done  by  proxy,  so  to-morrow^  please  God,  we 
set  out  for  Down.  The  roads  are  excellent,  the 
weather  very  good  for  travelling,  and  I  hope  the  journey 
will  be  pleasant ;  the  seeing  of  new  places  is  entertaining, 
and  we  are  going  into  such  a  hospitable  country,  that 
we  shall  not  lie  at  an  inn  all  the  way.  To-morrow  we  he 
at  Dunleer,  which  is  twenty-five  miles  from  hence,  at  Mi*. 
HamiIton*Sy  that  married  Miss  Forth ;  and  her  sister  Miss 
Mary  Forth,  that  was  with  Mrs.  Clayton,  is  now  with 
her,  which  will  be  very  agreable  to  me.  There  I  beHeve 
we  shall  rest  a  day.  We  are  to  take  up  our  residence  for 
the  time  we  stay  in  the  North,  at  Dr.  Mathews's  a  clergy- 
man of  a  very  singular  good  character,  a  most  hospitable 
generous  man :  his  house  is  near  Down  ;  and  Mr.  Forde, 
Mrs.  F.'s  eldest  son,  lives  in  that  neighbourhood.  If  I 
could  be  reconciled  to  leaving  DelviUe  I  should  be  very 
well  pleased  with  this  Kttle  pilgrimage,  but  I  own  I 
leave  it  for  a  day  with  regret.  We  shall  take  this  oppor- 
tunity of  having  our  house  whitewashed,  and  some  part 
painted,  and  many  other  finishings  which  we  are  now  very 
busy  in  giving  directions  about.  We  don't  propose  making 
a  longer  stay  than  a  fortnight,  but  as  it  is  above  seventy 
miles  from  hence  our  letters  may  be  a  little  tedious  in  their 
passage,  so  I  beg  you  will  not  be  uneasy  if  you  don*t 
hear  as  regularly  as  you  used  to  do.  By  the  time  you 
receive  this  and  answer  it,  I  hope  to  be  at  home  again. 


VOL.  II. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


322  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mm,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Detoes,  at  Ql<iucester. 

Mount  Panther,  10  Septr.,  1744. 

After  many  tedious  days*  expectation  arrived  my 
dearest  sister's  letter  dated  the  19tli  August  finished  on 
the  20th.  This  letter  I  hope  will  find  my  dearest  sister 
safely  reposed  at  Gloucester;  I  believe  it  is  time  you 
shou'd  be  there,  but  I  could  not  expect  it  much  sooner 
as  you  have  had  so  much  to  settle.  Your  house  describes 
agreeably,  and  when  it  is  graced  by  your  presence  and 
your  good  fancy,  it  will  be  delightful.  Happy  will  be 
the  hour  when  my  eye  sees  what  now  I  only  can  have 
an  imperfect  idea  of,  but  I  am  glad  to  know  every 
comer  of  your  house  and  how  you  appropriate  it, 
that  I  may  follow  your  steps  from  place  to  place. 
Tour  orchard  is  charming,  and  so  is  your  walk  to  church. 
I  shall  take  it  extremely  ill  if  you  rob  Court^  of  his  pictures ; 
all  hut  Summer  and  Faustina's  pictures  are  his^  and  to  be 
hung  up  in  his  nursery.  I  wrote  to  you  the  Saturday*  I 
arrived  here,  which  was  this  day  se'night — with  an  account 
of  our  having  been  at  Down  Patrick.  Last  Monday  we 
dined  at  Mr.  Forde's,  three  miles  from  hence,  a  very 
pleasant  place  and  capable  of  being  made  a  very  fine 
one ;  there  is  more  wood  than  is  common  in  this  country, 
and  a  fine  lake  of  water  with  very  pretty  meadows.  The 
house  is  situated  on  the  side  of  a  hill,  and  looks  down 
on  his  woods  and  water.  The  house  is  not  a  very  good 
one,  but  very  well  fiU*d;  for  he  has  ten  children,  the 
youngest  about  10  years  old, — but  that's  a  moderate  family 
to  some  in  this  country.     In  the  afternoon  came  in  two 

I  <*  C<mrt:^    The  eldest  son  of  Mrs.  Dewes. 

'  "  The  Saturday  I  arrived  here.^    This  letter  has  not  been  fonnd. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  323 

ladies  who  had  been  to  see  me  at  Dr.  Mathews's,  and 
missing  me  followed.  One  is  a  Mrs.  Annesly^  (a  relation 
to  the  present  disputants),  she  is  daughter  to  my  Lord 
Tyrone,  such  another  slatternly  ignorant  hoyden  I  never 
saw,  and  the  worst  of  it  is  she  is  very  good-humoured,  but 
wiU  be  fdmUidr :  her  husband  is  very  like  the  Duke  of 
Bedford,  and  well  enough.  The  other  lady  is  a  Mrs.  Baylis, 
a  handsome  sprightly  woman,  well  behaved,  with  a  little 
dash  of  a  fine  lady.  Her  husband,  a  genteel  agreeable  man, 
brother  to  Sir  Nicholas  Baylis,  that  married  the  Paget,  a 
clergyman  very  well  esteemed  in  the  neighbourhood.  On 
Tuesday  the  Fordes  dined  here ;  and  on  Wednesday  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Mathews  of  Newcastle,  about  six  miles  from 
hence.  The  whole  family  of  the  Fordes  are  religious, 
worthy  people.  On  Friday  we  dined  at  Newcastle  at 
Mr.  Mathews's  :  it  is  situated  at  the  foot  of  a  range  of 
mountains  so  high  that  they  are  at  top  seldom  free  from 
clouds,  and  the  water  has  made  a  winding  channel  and 
&lls  down  in  a  cascade ;  the  main  ocean  bounds  them  on 
one  side  and  is  so  near  them  that  the  spray  of  the  sea  wets 
them  as  they  stand  at  the  hall-door.  On  the  other  hand  of 

*  Lady  Anne  De  la  Poer  Beresford,  married  in  1738,  William  Annesley, 
let  Viscount  Glerawley.  Sir  Marcus  Beresford,  Bart,  married,  July  16,  1717, 
Catherine  Poer,  Baroness  de  la  Poer  in  her  own  right,  only  cdiild  and  heir,  of 
James,  3rd  Earl  of  Tyrone.  Her  hushand  was  created  in  1720,  Baron  Beres- 
ford, Viscount  Tyrone,  and  in  1746,  Earl  of  Tyrone.  He  was  the  ancestor 
of  the  Waterford  and  Decies  fiftmilies.  His  eldest  daughter,  married,  in  1738, 
William  Aimesley,  1st  Viscount  Glerawley,  and  ancestor  of  the  Earls  of  An- 
nesley.  When  a  commoner,  he  was  a  claimant  for  the  titles  of  Earl  of  Angle* 
sey  and  Viscount  Valentia. 

«  Sir  Nicholas  Bayley,  Bart,  of  Pltenewydd,  Isle  of  Anglesey  North  Wales, 
married  Caroline,  daughter  and  heiress  of  Brigadier-General  Thomas  Paget, 
grandson  of  William,  5th  Baron  Paget.  PlAsnewydd  is  now  the  property 
(1860)  of  the  Dowager  Lady  Willougjiby  de  Broke,  daughter  of  Sir  John 
Williams,  of  B6delwyddan,  Bart 

t2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


324  LIFE  AND  CX)BBB8P0NDENCE 

them  are  hills,  fine  meadows,  winding  rivers,  and  a  variety 
of  pretty  objects  for  so  bare  a  comitry  of  trees,  though 
on  the  side  of  the  mountains  there  are  scattering  shrubby 
woods  which  make  the  view  pleasant.  This  country  is 
famous  for  the  goat's  whey ;  and  at  the  season  for  drinking 
it,  which  is  summer,  a  great  deal  of  company  meet  for  that 
purpose,  and  there  are  little  huts  built  up  for  their  recep- 
tion, and  they  have  music  and  balls  and  cards,  and  happy 
are  the  family  at  Newcastle^  when  that  season  comes,  for 
there  are  thirteen  sons  and  daughters,  most  of  them  never 
out  of  that  part  of  the  country.  Mr.  Mathews  is  an 
attorney,  has  a  very  good  fortune,  is  a  good  sort  of  man ; 
his  wife  a  sensible  agreeable  woman,  and  has  brought  up 
all  her  children  extremely  well — they  are  as  decent  and 
as  healthy  a  family  as  ever  I  saw  ;  and  to  make  up  the 
company,  at  the  head  of  them  are  placed  both  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Mathews's  mothers  ;  old  Mrs.  Mathews  is  eighty- 
seven  years  of  age,  and  the  most  venerable  fine  figure  I  ever 
saw,  and  as  apprehaudve  as  a  woman  of  five-and-twenty. 
A  lady  that  went  to  see  her  this  summer  found  her  darn- 
ing fine  cambrick ;  her  hearing  is  a  little  impaired* 

There  was  something  so  extraordinary  in  the  appearance 
of  the  family,  and  the  situation  of  the  place,  that  I  was 
extremely  entertained  with  my  visit.  Mr.  Mathews  waited 
for  us  at  the  door  with  his  fishermen,  and  as  soon  as  we 
arrived  had  the  net  thrown  into  a  river  near  his  house 
and  took  a  large  draught  of  fine  salmon  trout ;  the  sun 
shining  on  them  made  them  quite  beautiful. 

On  Saturday  we  dined  at  Mr.  Annesly's  ;^  it  was  a  mere 


^  "  On  the  Bonth  aide  of  Duiidnun  Bay  is  the  watering-plaoe  of  Newcastle, 
formerly  called  Black  Bock,  adjoining  which  is  the  residence  of  the  Earl  of 
Annesley." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  325 

rakhU  rout.  Yesterday  the  Dean  preached  at  Down,  and 
we  women  went  to  Dr.  Mathews's  church  two  miles  off, 
— a  very  pretty  church  and  full  congregation.  We  were 
invited  and  dined  at  Mr.  Baylis'  about  a  small  mile  from 
hence.  They  live  in  what  is  called  in  this  country  "  a 
odbirC* — that  is  a  house  of  one  floor  and  thatched ;  it  is 
situated  very  near  the  sea,  with  a  pretty  neat  court  before 
it :  the  outside  promises  very  little,  but  the  inside  is  quite 
elegant,  as  much  as  I  saw  of  it,  which  was  the  hall,  a 
large  parlour,  drawing-room  and  bed-chamber.  We  were 
very  handsomely  entertained.  There  is  a  Mrs.  Murray, 
a  cousin-german  of  Mrs,  Baylis,  that  is  now  with  them, — 
a  very  sensible  agreeable  woman,  and  a  great  proficient 
in  miniature  painting ;  the  likeness  of  her  portraits,  of 
which  she  showed  me  a  great  number,  I  was  no  Judge  of, 
I  did  not  know  the  persons  for  whom  they  were  drawn, 
but  they  are  prettily  pencilled,  and  some  of  her  lomd- 
scapes  are  really  fine. 

The  weather  is  so  excessively  bad  that  I  don't  believe 
we  shall  be  able  to  set  out  to-morrow  for  home  as  we  de- 
signed ;  not  that  we  have  anything  to  apprehend  from 
the  roads,  for  I  never  travelled  such  fine  roads  as  are  all 
over  this  country,  but  I  shall  be  afraid  of  the  Dean's  tra- 
velling in  damp  weather.  D.D.  is  very  busy  in  making 
a  plan  for  the  Deanery  House.  He  is  very  much  shocked 
at  the  present  jail  at  Down,  and  is  determined  to  have  it 
altered,  and  to  h«ve  one  built  with  different  apartments  for 
men  and  women,  and  a  chapel ;  he  gives  a  hundred  pounds 
towards  it,  and  endows  the  chapel  with  twenty  pounds 
a  year  for  a  clergyman  to  give  them  divine  service,  and 
is  finishing  and  beautifying  the  church,  which  will  be  very 
handsome  when  done.  I  shall  be  very  well  pleased  to  have 


Digitized  by 


Google 


326  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

him  continue  in  this  scene  till  he  has  accomplished  all 
his  good  designs ;  I  must  dress,  company  dines  here. 

In  1849  Frazer  gave  the  following  account : — "  Proceeding  from 
Castlewellan  to  Downpatrick,  there  is  an  undulating  countiy,  and 
at  three  and  a  half  miles  Mount  Panther,  the  residence  of  J.  Beed 
Allen,  Esq.,  and  five  miles  further  the  village  of  Clough — a  mile 
north  from  which  is  the  village  and  demesne  of  Seaford,  the  latter 
the  fine  residence  of  Lady  Harriet  Forde.  Downpatrick,  the 
county  town  of  Down,  returns  a  member  of  Parliament,  and  as  the 
name  imports  the  hill  of  St.  Patrick,  is  said  to  be  the  most  ancient 
town  in  Ireland.  It  is  situated  near  the  head  of  Lough  Strangford, 
built  on  an  imdulating  surface,  and  encircled  by  a  series  of  low  hills. 
''  Slieve-na-griddle  (414  feet)  is  about  two  miles  and  a  half  east 
from  the  town,  and  not  far  firom  its  base  are  Struel,  or  as  they  are 
sometimes  called  St.  Patrick's  Wells,  where  at  midsummer  many 
persons  resort  from  various  parts  of  Ireland  to  do  penance,  and  to 
partake  of  the  supposed  sanative  qualities  of  the  vraters.  St 
Finian's  Well  is  near  the  race-course,  on  the  south  of  the  town.  A 
little  to  the  west  of  Downpatrick,  near  the  road  to  Clough,  is  Holly 
Mount,  the  seat  of  Mr.  Forde." 


The  following  original  letter  from  Dr.  Salter'  is  here  inserted  in 
its  chronological  order. 

Mr,  Samud  Salter  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Madam,  September  11th,  1744. 

I  have  seldom  met  with  a  more  pleasant  reqnesi,  in 
whatever  light  it  is  viewed.  I  am  the  gayest  man  upon 
earth.  I  come  hither  for  two  months,  Only  three-fifths 
of  which  time  is  gone.  I  shall  leave  Glocester  the  first 
day  of  October,  and  fly  on  the  wings  of  impatient  love 

^  Samuel  Salter,  D.D.,  a  learned  divine  and  a  prebendar}'  of  Gloucester.  He 
published  several  sermons,  &c.,  and  died  1778. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  327 

into  Lincolnshire.  I  shall  not  be  here  again  this  twelve- 
month be  sure,  perhaps  not  these  two  years  ;  and  you 
ask  the  gay  man  for  grave  books ;  you  suppose  the  man 
whose  stay  is  only  two  months  has  his  whole  library 
with  him,  and  you  expect  to  borrow  of  one  whom  you 
cannot  see  again  for  so  long  a  time.  But  there  is  some- 
thing so  wild  in  your  note  that  I  consider  it  as  a  bur- 
lesque only  upon  mine ;  for  if  you  want  books,  who  so 
able,  so  r€»dy,  or  so  willing  to  supply  you  as  our  friend 
Jack  Newton?  You  are  again  mistaken  in  me,  and 
seem  to  have  heard  but  half  my  story,  which  is  a  wonder 
too  ;  for  I  have  taken  a  deal  of  pains,  or  rather  a  deal  of 
pleasure,  to  tell  it  all.  The  verses  I  quoted  are  only 
applicable  to  a  lover  in  doubt  and  fear ;  lam  safe  in  port, 
and  when  I  go  from  hence  I  go  to  be  married.  The 
joy,  therefore,  which  lightens  from  my  eyes  never  sickens 
with  desire  and  dies,  but,  on  the  contrary,  brightens 
with  the  assurance  of  success  and  the  prospect  of  pos- 
session, and  lives  and  acquires  fresh  brightness  and  spirit 
every  hour,  every  moment,  as  witness  my  hand  this  11th 
day  of  September.  1744.  g^^^^^  g^^^ 

P.S.  Seriously,  I  have  gotten  only  three  books  which 
I  can  make  you  an  offer  of :  one  is  Fontenelle's  Dia- 
logues of  the  Dead  (Fr.  prose),  another  Fontaine's 
Fables  (Fr.  verse),  and  the  third  is  entitled  A  Wedding 
Bing  fit  for  the  Finger,  or  the  Salve  of  Divinity  on 
■  the  Love  of  Humanity;  laid  open  in  a  Sermon  at  a 
Wedding,  by  William  Seeker,'  &c.    This  last  I  am  fallen 

*  "  A  Wedding  Ring  fit  for  the  Finger ;  or,  the  Salve  of  Divinity  on  the  Score 
of  Hnmanity :"  a  Sermon  at  a  Wedding,  by  William  Seeker,  preacher  of  the 
Gospel  at  Tewkesbury.   Published  in  1658. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


328  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

in  love  with  upon  two  accounts :  the  subject  is  particu- 
larly interesting  to  me  at  this  time,  the  manner  of 
handling  it  is  most  entertaining,  and  which  is  better 
than  all,  the  author  is  of  the  same  name  and  family  wi^ 
the  lady  who  has  already  made  me  the  happiest  man  on 
earth,  and  will  soon  make  me  the  happiest  in  the  universe. 
If  you  would  see  this  last  pray  let  me  know  it,  and  you 
shall  have  it  for  a  day  or  so,  but  I  will  not  trust  it  out  of 
my  hands  longer ;  and  indeed  if  I  did  not  know  how  to 
spend  my  time  much  better  than  in  reading  when  I  am 
happy  in  the  co  pany  of  ladies,  I  should  insist  oii  read- 
ing it  to  you  myself.  I  am,  with  compliments  and 
respects  of  every  proper  kind,  and  the  wishes,  moreover, 
of  the  season  to  you,  madam. 

Your  most  obedient  humble  serv*, 

S.S. 

P.S,  2nd.  Tis  a  sign  you  know  me  very  little  that  you 
will  dare  write  to  me,  for  none  dare  but  they  who  know 
me  very  much  and  they  who  scarce  know  me  at  all. 

P.S.  3rd.  Either  of  the  French  books  you  may  have  for 
as  long  as  you  please.     This  letter  has  three  postscripts. 

I  must  add  a  4th  P.  S.  byway  of  remark  on  your  last 
words,  which  are  Ao  curious  as  to  fetch  m4>re  laM  words 
out  of  m£.  You  can  bear  Night  Thoughts,  you  say,  and 
bid  me  remember  it.  Oh  I  there  is  no  sort  of  danger  of 
my  forgetting  it  while  the  request  preferred  in  your  last 
remains  in  my  memory,  for  I  ca^  hardly  think  you  were 
all  awake  when  you  thought  of  it.  I  do  insist  upon  it> 
the  expression  in  the  Night  Thoughts  is  affectedly  labored 
into  obscuritp;  that  the  sentiments  are  but  pompous 
trifling  Bxid  m^ignificent  commonplace^  and  that  the  mo- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  329 

rality  of  ihem  is  fcUse  and  highly  imbecoming  a  philoso- 
pher and  a  divine  to  inculcate,  and  nothing  could  excuse 
him  on  this  head  but  the  piety  of  his  conclusion,  which, 
however,  is  very  iU  built  on  his  premises.  It  is  not  true 
nor  right  to  argue  thus  :  "  This  world  is  a  scene  of  misery, 
therefore  let  us  look  for  another  and  better ;"  but  it  is 
both  right  and  true  to  say — "  Let  us  look  for  another  and 
better  world,  and  then  we  shall  be  able  to  go  through 
this  with  comfort  and  content,  even  though  it  should  prove 
to  be  a  scene  of  misery  and  a  vale  of  tears !"  Tou  made 
me  niiss  church,  so  I  wrote  aU  this  side  out  of  spite. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at  Oloucetter, 

Delville,  23  Sept.  1744. 

I  thank  God,  my  dearest  sister,  that  you  are  safe  at 
Gloucester,  and  I  trust  with  a  thorough  confidence  that  I 
shall  hear  more  happy  news  of  you  by  the  begiiming  of 
October.  I  am  rich  with  three  folios  of  your  precious  letters, 
but  am  poor  in  time ;  for  upon  my  return  home  visitors, 
and  tradespeople  have  encompasedme,  and  I  can't  say  an 
hour  is  my  own :  but  by  my  next  turn  of  writing  I  hope 
to  be  at  leisure  to  reassume  a  folio-sheet  of  paper. 

I  am  excessively  obliged  to  you  for  your  particular 
acoountof  your  house  and  all  its  appurtenances,  and  your 
neighbourhood,  all  which  gives  me  great  contentment, 
and  will  afford  you  I  hope  many  years  of  satisfaction. 
Yon  cannot  more  eagerly  wish  to  see  the  Magician  and 
his  Nymph  at  Welsbourne  than  they  wish  to  see  it,  and 
they  will  both  be  ready  to  enter  into  a  consultation  to  im- 
prove a  place  so  well  inhabited ;  and  as  we  are  both  in  our 
natures  busy  people,  it  will  be  impos^ble  not  to  scheme 


Digitized  by 


Google 


330  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

where  there  are  such  good  materials  to  work  upon.  We 
returned  from  the  North  on  Thursday ;  dined  and  lay  one 
night  at  Mr.  Hamilton's :  I  was  sorry  to  make  so  short 
a  visit  to  such  an  agreeable  family,  but  our  workmen  were 
waiting  at  home  for  us.  My  English  room  is  quite  un- 
furnished again  and  under  the  painters  hands.  I  have 
had  it  painted  a  sort  of  olive,  somewhat  lighter  than  my 
brother's,  for  the  sake  of  my  pictures,  and  because  the  room 
is  very  light.  I  have  had  the  frieze  painted  with  festoons 
of  flowers  and  shells  alternate,  and  you  can't  imagine 
what  a  pretty  effect  it  has ;  as  soon  as  the  room  is  dry, 
which  will  be  about  a  fortnight  hence,  I  shall  be  very 
busy  in  replacing  my  goods.  We  now  live  in  our  great 
parlour,  which  is  a  most  comfortable  room.  Oh  that  I 
could  bring  you  and  our  dearest  mama,  etc.  to  this  dwelling 
with  a  wish  1  You  should  have  a  very  snug  apartment 
for  your  purpose,  and  I  should  have  the  happiness  of  at- 
tending you  as  usual,  but  this  is  chimerical  and  at  present 
impossible.  I  am  very  glad  my  mother  is  so  much  better. 
I  pray  God  give  her  many  happy  years!  I  shall  not 
answer  her  dear  kind  letter  yet,  because  I  would  have  her 
quite  easy  about  not  writing  to  me.  She  1^  been  ex- 
cessively good,  and  I  am  sure  I  am  with  the  tenderest 
affection  her  most  obedient  daughter. 

The  Dean  bids  me  say  in  answer  to  your  challenge  that 
the  author  of  Tar  Water  ^  is  so  well  qualified  to  deal  with 


^  ^'SiBiB,  a  Chain  of  Philosophical  Reflections  and  Enquiries  axnceming  the 
Virtues  of  Tar  Water.  By  Dr.  Berkeley,  Bishop  of  Cloyne.  Sold  by  M.  Cooper, 
price  Is."  (1744).  Bishop  Berkeley  declares  it  to  be  a  sovereign  remedy  against 
all  the  ills  that  flesh  is  heir  to.  His  receipt  was,  1  gallon  of  cold  water  to  1  quart 
of  tar,  stirred  well  with  a  ladle  for  three  or  four  minutes,  then  left  to  stand 
forty-eight  hours,  and  tha  clear  water  poured  off  for  use,  no  moi«  being  made 
from  the  same  tar.    In  a  pamphlet  from  the  author  of  Stria  to  T.  P.,  Esq.,  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  331 

his  adversaries  that  he  wants  no  second,  and  so  poor  an 
epigram  can  only  bring  a  reflection  on  the  silly  publisher. 
Hismostaffectionate  service  attends  the  Pearly  Dewes,  with 
his  constant  prayers  for  her  welfare.  As  to  your  question 
about  the  northern  journey,  he  says  I  was  the  occasion  of 
its  being  put  off;  but  it  was  to  comply  with  my  fears  about 
his  health,  and  not  on  my  own  account.  He  has  been 
very  busy  all  this  morning  in  cleaning  and  trimming 
the  Pearly  Dewes^ 8  Bower.  It  is  provoking  to  have  so  many 
charming  letters  of  yours  to  answer  and  not  have  time  to 
say  a  word  more.  1  hocoe  had  a  Utter  from  my  brother ;  he  is 
mightily  delighted  with  Gleg :  and  I  have  had  a  letter 
from  my  dear  Princess.  Now  I  finish  with  duty,  love  a^nd 
service,  as  due,  from  your  ever  affectionate 


Mn,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at  WeUesbowme^  near  KeinUm,  Warwick- 
shire. 

(A  fragment,)  without  date. 

"  How  I  could  run  on,  but  must  not.  I  am  called  to 
range  dishes  on  my  table,  which  is  a  long  one,  and  con- 
sequently' easier  to  set  out  than  a  round  or  oval  one. 
The  table  takes  seven  dishes  in  length.  Here  follows  my 
bill  of  fare  for  to-day ;  is  not  this  ridiculous  ?  but  if  you 
wander  stiU  unseen,  it  may  serve  as  an  amusement  in 
your  retirement. 

First  Oourae.  Second  Cour^. 

Turkeys  endov^  Partridge 

Boyled  neck  of  mutton  Sweet  breads 


Bays,  '*Ab  the  old  philosophers  cried  aloud  from  the  house-tops,  ^Educate 
your  ehUdren,*  so  I  confess,  if  I  had  a  situation  high  enough  and  a  voice  loud 
enough,  I  would  cry  out  to  all  valetudinarians  upon  earth,  *  Drink  tar  water.* " 
*  Query  Endive,— Turkey  with  Endive. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


332  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

FirH  C(mrBe.  Second  CmMrm. 

Greens,  &c.  Collared  pig 

Soup  Creamed  apple  tart 

Plum-pudding.  Crabs 

Eoast  loin  of  veal  Fricassee  of  eggs 

Venison  pastj.  Pigeona 


No  dessert  to  be  had. 


The  arrangement  of  the  above  bill  of  fare  is  very  curious,  as  well 
as  the  combination  of  collared  pig  and  venison  pasty  with  hot 
meats  for  dinner.  This  list  of  viands  for  an  ordinary  dinner  is 
probably  a  fair  sample  of  what  Mary  Granville  in  her  first  visit  to 
Ireland  alluded  to,  when  she  mentioned  "  alwayi  seven  dishes  of 
meat,''  or  " eight  dishes  of  meat'' 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  writes  to  Lady  Throckmorton,  dated 
''  Bulstrode,  Dec.  15,  1744,"  to  say  that  her  spirits  had  been  much 
sunk  by  Lady  Oxford's  illness,  who,  however,  was  then  recovered. 
She  also  gives  the  news  that  the  Duke  of  Bedford  was  to  be  head 
of  the  Admiralty  and  the  Duke  of  Somerset  to  be  made  Eaxl  of 
Northumberland,  to  descend  to  Sir  Charles  Windham  with  the  estate 
the  Duchess  of  Somerset^  settled  upon  him. 


An  interval  of  three  months  here  occurs,  during  which  period 
Sir  John  Stanley  died.' 

Mr:  Delany  to  Mr$.  Dewes, 

Delville,  the  third  day  of  the  new  year, 
1744-6. 

It  is  needless  to  repeat  how  warmly  my  heart  wishes 
you,  my  dearest  sister,  all  happiness  this  year  and  many 
succeeding  ones.     The  Dean  joins  me  in  every  tender 

1  Lady  Elizabeth  Percy, 

»  Died,  Deoemher,  1744,  Sir  John  Stanley,  Bart.,  one  of  the  Commweionen 
of  the  Customs,  aged  85. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  333 

wish.  Your  letter  of  the  16th  December  is  come  safe. 
What  you  say  of  Sir  John  Stanley  is  very  just. 
I  have  the  satisfactory  consciousness  of  having  acted 
a  righi  pari  towards  him ;  I  have  from  my  childhood 
received  many  fevours,  and  to  the  day  of  my  death 
shall  grateAilly  remember  him ;  but  my  brother  has 
had  it  more  in  his  power  to  shew  his  regard,  and  for 
many  years  we  know  gave  up  the  world  for  his  sake, 
and  I  own  he  deserved  to  be  more  distinguished.  There 
can  be  no  mistake  in  the  hundred  pound  left  you,  for  Mr. 
Charles  Monck  sent  me  a  copy  of  the  will,  where  he  says 
he  leaves  that  sum  to  ''Miss  Ann  Granville,  sister 
to  Mrs.  Pendarves."  W.M.  had  not  the  manners  to 
give  my  brother  notice  either  of  Sir  J.  Stanley's  sickness 
or  death,  or  me ;  he  will  be  obliged  to  sell  Northend ; 
I  wish  it  may  be  bought  by  somebody  I  love,  but  I  would 
rather  have  it  in  the  possession  of  anybody  than  W.M. 
You  may  remember  that  the  basons  and  covers  that  are 
left  me  had  dishes  belonging  to  them ;  I  suppose  poor 
Sir  J.  did  not  think  it  necessary  to  mention  them,  as  they 
belonged  to  the  dishes,  but  W.M.  told  my  brother  the 
hamis  were  left  me,  but  not  the  dishes,  it  will  be  in 
character  if  he  separates  them,  as  I  don't  doubt  he  will. 

Who  is  at  Bradley,  and  how  are  all  your  friends  at 
Mapleborough  ?  I  have  had  a  long  letter  from  my 
mother ;  I  find  she  is  very  weak  in  her  limbs,  and  fear 
that  is  an  infirmity  wiU  increase  upon  her.  The  ingeni- 
ous and  agreeable  Letty  ^  is  still  with  me,  thanks  to  the 
winds  that  have  kept  back  her  clothes ;  as  soon  as  they 
arrive  away  she  flies  into  the  country  sixty  miles  off  to 


1  Letitia  Bnshe,  often  mentioned  in  Mrs.  Pendanres's  first  yisit  to  Ireland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


'334  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Lady  Anne  Magill,  ^  a  sister  of  Lord  Damley's.  She 
will  be  a  great  loss  to  me ;  she  is  one  of  the  few  who  is 
perfectly  qualified  for  an  agreeable  companion  in  a 
domestic  way ;  her  sweetness  of  temper  makes  her  give 
into  all  one's  ways  as  if  she  chose  to  do  whatever  is 
proposed ;  her  other  agreeable  and  engaging  talents  you 
have  long  been  acquainted  with;  she  paints  for  me 
in  the  morning  and  draws  in  the  evening,  which 
with  reading,  prating,  walking,  backgammon  and  puss  in 
the  comer  employ  the  hours  of  the  day  and  evening  so 
fully  that  we  do  not  feel  how  fast  they  fly.  Our  concerts 
are  begun  again  and  are  to  be  continued  every  Tuesday. 


Mn.  Ddany  to  Mn,  Dewes. 

.  Delville,  10  Jan.  1744-5. 

Bushe  is  still  with  me,  and  Miss  Parker  and  a  little 
girl  a  friend  of  Miss  Delany's.  This  is  by  way  of  preface 
to  a  short  letter ;  as  you  know  when  one's  house  is  full 
of  company,  time  is  unaccountably  swallowed  up.  Besides, 
I  have  been  for  two  hours  writing  out  a  long  list  of 
affairs  for  D.D.'s  lawyers.  Yet  I  must  write  to  my 
most  dear  sister,  and  thank  her  for  her  delightful  letters, 
dated  the  22nd  and  29th  Dec. !  Such  stormy  weather 
we  have  had  for  two  days  past,  with  violent  snow  driving 
at  such  a  rate,  that  it  has  penetrated  through  the  roof  of 
the  house,  almost  into  every  room .  I  never  remember  any- 
thing like  it ;  and  yesterday  D.D.  was  engaged  to  preach 


1  Anno,  second  daughter  of  John,  1st  Earl  of  Damley,  married,  first,  17th 
September,  1742,  to  Robert  Hawkins  Macgill,  Esq.,  of  Gill  ffill,  ooimty 
Down  ;  and  secondly,  in  December,  1748,  to  Bernard  Ward,  Visoonnt  Bangor. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  335 

at  St.  Warbor's.  My  heart  ached  for  him,  for  it  was  a 
most  hazardous  undertaking,  but  he  was  so  discreet  as  to 
come  home  in  a  sedan-chair.  We  went  at  two  to  Mr. 
Wesley's,  and  were  one  hour  driving,  and  we  used  to  be 
only  twenty  minutes,  but  such  hills  of  snow  and  dales  of 
mud  were  in  our  way,  that  we  made  our  passage  with 
great  difficulty. 

Mrs.  Portescue  is  following  your  example,  and  produ- 
cing another  child ;  her  boy  is  very  handsome  and  stout, 
all  the  family  look  happy,  and  Mr.  Wesley  has  smoothed 
his  brow;  they  are  a  very  agreeable,  good-humoured 
set  of  people,  and  Mr.  Eortescue  a  very  pretty  man, 
and  has  an  extremely  good  character  from  everybody. 
Our  little  hop  which  I  promised  Bell  was  appointed  for 
Wednesday,  but  that  proving  the  Fast-day,  it  is  to  be 
this  evening ;  the  dancers  are  to  be  your  humble  ser- 
vant and  Mrs.  Hamilton's  eldest  son  (a  very  sober,  well- 
behaved  youth),  his  sister  and  Mr.  Ford :  how  the  rest 
will  be  coupled  I  can't  teU ;  but  these  are  the  rest  of 
the  hoppers — ^two  Mr.  Swifts,  young  men  of  this  village, 
Mr.  Parker,  and  a  younger  son  of  Mrs.  Hamilton's ;  Miss 
Delany,  Mrs.  Barber^  (the  Dean's  niece).  Miss  Parker, 
Miss  Green ;  we  begin  at  five  and  end  at  nine,  tea,  coffee, 
and  cold  supper;  and  beds  for  those  that  will  accept 
of  them.  Did  I  not  write  you  word  of  an  humble  servant 
of  Miss  Delany's,  a  Councellor  Green?  he  has  been 
here  and  has  made  his  proposal,  and  is  accepted ;  he  is 
really  a  very  handsome,  agreeable  man>  modest,  and 
has  long  had  an  affection  for  her,  and  I  think  she  will 


>  *'  Mrs.  Barber,  the  Dean's  niece.**  This  was  not  Mrs.  Barber  the  poetess, 
though  it  is  posdble  it  might  have  been  the  wife  of  one  of  her  sons,  perhaps  of 
Dr.  Barber  the  physician. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


336  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

make  a  very  proper  wife  for  him  :  without  being  at  all 
handsome,  she  has  something  engaging  in  her  looks  and 
very  proper  in  her  behaviour  :  so  now  my  thoughts  are 
busy  about  her.  Her  uncle  gives  her  her  fortune  and 
her  wedding-clothes ;  I  hope  we  shall  settle  her  happily, 
but  she  wiU  be  a  great  loss  to  me  at  home,  for  she  is  very 
useful  and  diverting,  and  gives  us  many  a  hearty  laugh. 

Saturday  12th  January. 

The  little  rout  is  over  ?  we  had  four  hours  of  smart, 
clever  dancing;  and  broke  off  a  quarter  before  nine; 
supped,  and  were  all  quiet  in  our  nests  by  twelve,  and  the 
Dean  seemed  as  well  pleased  with  looking  on  as  we  were 
with  our  dancing. 

I  think  my  Lord  Gower  might  be  of  use  if  he  were 
properly  applied  to,  and  you  know  I  am  ready  with 
heart  and  hand  to  make  any  application  that  can  be  ser- 
viceable. My  first  thought  was  for  poor  Miss  Gr. ;  for  on 
hearing  of  Lord  Weymouth's  iUness,  and  knowing  how 
precarious  her  small  income  is,  (which  depends  upon  his 
life  and  pleasure,)  I  wrote  to  my  brother  to  know  if  it 
would  be  right  for  me  to  write  to  Lord  Gower  in  her  behalf: 
since  that  I  have  had  a  letter  from  her,  to  tell  me  she 
had  written  to  the  Duchess  of  Bedford,  to  ask  her  interest 
with  her  father ;  and  if  my  brother  thinks  it  proper  I 
should  write  to  back  her  request  I  must.  Lord  Chester- 
field comes  to  L*eland  after  his  negotiation  to  Holland. 
I  am  sorry  I  have  kept  the  story  of  the  young  lady  so 
long  from  you,  but  I  have  not  had  an  opportunity  yet 
of  seeing  her,  and  I  was  willing  to  give  you  the  story  first 
from  her  own  mouth.  Mr.  Brook's  play  is  called  The 
Patriot ;  I  don't  find  it  greatly  approved  of,  but  they  say 
it  is  miserably  acted.     He  will  not  print  it  till  it  has 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANr.  337 

made  its  appearance  on  the  English  stage.  I  am  sorry- 
Mr.  White  is  not  on  better  terms  in  his  neighbonrliood ; 
but  every  place  has  its  parties  and  partizans. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewea» 

Delville,  19  Jan.,  1744-5. 

I  must  own  I  am  greatly  pleased  at  your  present 
situation.  I  could  not  bear  your  being  buried  in  such  a 
solitude  as  Bradley,  and  I  am  heartily  glad  Mr.  Dewes 
enjoys  the  pleasure  of  cheerful  society  and  a  pleasant 
dwelling :  his  own^  cheerfulness  and  good-humour  makes 
him  worthy  of  it,  and  may  you  both  long  enjoy  every 
blessing  that  human  nature  is  capable  of  I  I  am  so  happy 
as  to  have  the  lovely  and  ingenious  Letty  Bushe  with 
me  still ;  the  winds  that  have  crossed  our  wishes  often 
have  been  kind  to  me  on  her  account,  and  by  detaining 
her  clothes  kept  her  under  my  roof,  but  now  she  talks 
of  leaving  me,  and  as  I  have  always  made  it  a  rule  in  any 
friendship  never  to  be  a  monopolizer,  I  must  give  her 
up.  Lady  Anne  Magill  is  a  sister  of  Lord  Darnley's,  a 
young  lady  of  a  very  good  character,  and  a  great  friend 
of  Letty  *s ;  they  are  engaged  to  spend  the  winter  together, 
and  I  must  yield  to  the  first  engagement,  though  my  loss 
will  be  irreparable,  aa  I  can  have  nobody  vnth  me  here  that 
can  give  me  so  much  pleasure  ,•  for  besides  her  ingenuity, 
she  has  a  turn  for  conversation  that  is  not  common,  and 
her  good-humour  is  inexhaustible,  but  her  constitution 
is  tender,  which  must  be  an  allay  to  the  pleasure  she 
every  other  way  gives. 

You  say  you  wish  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester  knew  Lord 
Weymouth  had  settled  £4000  on .  Are  you  sure  of 

VOL.  II.  z 


Digitized  by 


Google 


338  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

that  ?  Mrs.  P.  writes  me  word  she  is  not  certain  of  it.  In 
my  last  to  you  I  think  I  said  I  waii^d  for  an  answer  from 
my  brother  before  I  could  write  to  Lord  Qower,  but  as  I 
do  not  love  to  lose  time,  if  I  may  by  any  means  advance 
a  friend's  interest,  I  wrote  him  a  comical  letter  last 
Tuesday;  my  preamble  was  compliments  on  his  pro- 
motion, and  that  it  was  the  tax  of  men  of  power  to  be 
importuned,  but  I  said  I  was  so  reasonable  I  had  but 
three  petitions  to  prefer  cct  a  tiTue;  my  letter  was  a 
long  one,  and  I  have  not  time  to  transcribe  it,  but 
sometimes  a  letter  of  that  kind  is  better  remembered 
and  listened  to  than  a  more  serious  one.  D.D.  thinks 
Mr.  W.  has  not  authority  for  what  he  did  in  relation  to 
the  Xtning,  not  but  that  in  the  main  it  was  right  and 
may  be  a  means  of  putting  the  common  people  in  mind 
of  a  duty  too  much  neglected. 

If  we  are  promoted  I  hope  in  time  something  may  be 
done  for  Mr,  Chapon,  but  at  present  D.D.  has  old  friends 
and  relations  to  provide  for  that  claim  the  first  right  to 
his  interest.  The  Chapons  talk  of  sendingHarry  to  study 
in  our  college, — I  think  if  they  can  afford  to  bring  him 
up  in  that  way,  it  will  be  better  and  cheaper  than  the 
universities  of  England ;  here  he  may  be  maintained  and 
educated  in  that  way  for  £40  a  year,  and  be  upon  the 
same  footing  as  the  best  gentlemen's  sons. 

I  ask  a  thousand  pardons  for  not  sending  the  story  of 
Miss  McDermot  sooner.  Last  Thursday  was  se'night 
we  dined  at  the  Wesleys  (great  enquiry  after  you),  and 
the  day  following  we  had  our  ball  which  I  have  already 
given  you  information  of,  as  also  of  the  wedding  in  hand 
which  goes  on  very  well ;  and  next  Monday  I  go  to 
Dublin  to  buy  the  clothes.     D.D.  gives  her  five  hundred 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  339 

pounds  for  her  portion^  and  sixty  pounds  to  buy  clothes ; 
I  believe  the  knot  will  be  tied  about  the  middle  of  next 
month.  I  hope  she  will  be  happy ;  the  prospect  is  fair,  and 
she  has  engaged  my  good  wishes  by  her  very  obliging 
behaviour ;  I  am  going  to  fit  up  my  only  room  that  is 
still  unfdrnished ;  it  is  to  be  hung  with  tapestry,  a  rich 
green  damask  bed,  chairs,  and  window  curtains,  which 
apartment  I  hope  will  be  honoured  by  my  dearest  sister 
when  she  can  make  me  happy  with  her  company. 


Mrs,  DeHany  to  Mrs,  Deives, 

Delville,  81  Jan.,  1744-5. 

Did  I  tell  you  of  another  wedding  in  hand  here  ?  a 
nephew  of  D.D's,  who  is  a  kind  of  steward  to  us,  and  a 
sober  good  sort  of  young  man  bred  up  to  farming  afl^rs. 
He  is  going  to  be  married  to  a  very  clever  girl,  bred  up 
in  the  same  way — a  niece  of  Mrs.  Barber's ;  the  Dean 
gives  them  a  very  comfortable  farm  about  twelve  miles  off, 
and  they  are  to  supply  us  with  all  farming  affairs.  When 
this  is  done  the  Dean  has  not  a  relation  left  that  he  has 
not  portioned  or  settle  in  some  comfortable  way ;  and  if 
I  were  to  tell  you  all  the  particulars  of  his  benevolence 
and  his  goodness  towards  them  you  would  be  astonished 
that  his  fortune  had  answered  so  well  the  beneficence  of 
his  heart,  but  these  are  the  things  for  which  he  has 
been  blest.  '•  His  leaf  shall  not  loither,  and  look  whatsoever 
he  doeth  it  shall  prosper. ^^ 

The  pretty  enclosed  drawing  is  firom  the  ingenious 
Letitia,  invented  and  executed  by  my  side. 


z2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


340  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Deuifs, 

Delville,  2nd  March,  1744-5. 

I  gave  you  a  short  account  of  our  wedding-day,  which 
passed  off  as  well  as  such  things  generally  do.  They 
are  still  in  the  house  with  us,  and  will  stay  till  the  begin- 
ning of  May  that  we  go  to  the  North.  Mr.  Green  is  an 
agreeable  man  to  have  in  the  house,  as  he  is  very  well 
bred  and  easy,  conversable,  and  reads  to  us  whilst  we 
work  in  the  evenings,  so  that  we  spend  our  time  very 
pleasantly.  Miss  Harman,  a  cousin-german  and  &iend 
of  Mrs.  Green,  is  now  with  us — a  modest  young  thing, 
obliging  and  good-humoured;  and  you  know  I  like 
to  indulge  friends,  as  I  love  to  be  indulged  myself;  we 
have  had  a  good  deal  of  company  on  this  occasion,  and 
next  week  we  return  visits  and  have  many  dinner-invita- 
tions on  our  hands.  The  Councellor  Green  has  three 
brothers,  the  two  eldest  great  sugar-bakers,  and  one  of 
them  made  a  present  to  the  Bride  of  a  bill  of  fifty  pounds 
the  day  after  she  was  married. 

The  account  you  give  me  of  your  walking  through  frost 
and  snow  with  your  little  boys,  delights  me.  You  say  you 
want  a  little  "  good  conversation  ,•"  why  that  is  certainly  the 
most  rare  of  all  rarities,  and  were  you  not  yourself  richly 
endowed  with  the  talent  of  conversing,  you  would  not 
feel  the  loss  of  it  so  much,  but  a  little  lively  talk  and 
chit-chat  must  be  accepted,  and  for  more  solid  and  useftd 
thoughts  your  own  breast  and  your  library  can  supply  you. 
The  insolence  of  the  Duchess  of  Bedford  towards  our 
worthy  cousins  fills  me  with  indignation  whenever  I 
think  of  it. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF.  MRS.  DBLANY.  341 

My  Lord  Salisbury's  *  match  did  not  surprize  me ;  his 
steward  perhaps  m^  be  a  gentleman  of  as  good  a  family 
as  himself,  and  a  woman  of  rank  and  knowledge  of  the 
world  would  not  have  accepted  of  a  coachnan  although  he 
vxis  a  peer  of  the  realm !  The  Duke  of  Chandos*s*  choice 
is  a  more  extraordinary  one,  but  I  own  I  am  well  pleased 
with  both,  as  I  take  it  to  be  a  strong  proof  of  the  virtue 
of  both  these  women,  who  would  hardly  have  been  raised 
to  the  rank  they  are  now  in  had  they  not  been  virtuous ; 
and  as  virtue  is  now  more  scarce  in  the  world  than  nobility ^ 
I  can't  help  rejoicing  at  every  instance  of  it. 

You  say  Mr.  Tate  is  very  gay,  and  well  pleased  with 
the  good  fortune  his  cousin  has  left  him.  Pray  what  is  it  ? 
you  never  mentioned  it  to  me.  I  am  glad  he  had  it  not 
some  years  ago,  for  I  am  now  well  assured  I  could  not 
have  been  so  happy  with  any  man  in  the  world  as  the 
person  I  am  now  united  to;  his,  real  benevolence  of 
heart,  the  great  delight  he  takes  in  making  every  one 
happy  about  him,  is  a  disposition  so  uncommon  that  I 
wovdd  not  change  that  one  circumstance  of  happiness  for 
all  the  riches  and  greatness  in  the  world.  This  evening 
we  have  a  concert ;  next  Tuesday  should  have  been  the 
day,  but  we  are  to  dine  abroad.  I  wish  Miss  Tracy  was 
well  married  for  her  sake  and  for  her  mother's,  who  would 
finish  her  days  with  more  content  could  she  leave  that 
good  young  woman  well  settled.  Is  there  no  talk  of 
Miss  Dodwell's  marrying  ?  I  am  sorry  the  poor  Chapons 
are  under  trouble  of  any  kind ;  in  time  I  still  hope  I 


>  James  Cecil,  6tli  Earl  of  Salisbury,  married,  in  1743,  Elizabeth,  sister  of 
tlie  Ber.  John  Kcet,  Rector  of  Hatfield. 

3  Henry,  2nd  Duke  of  Chandos,  married  his  second  wife,  Anuc  Jcffrys,  in 
1745. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


342  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

may  do  them  some  more  considerable  service  than  I  have 
yet  done,  but  my  designs  hitherto  for  them  have  never 
succeeded. 

Have  I  told  you  of  a  pretty  tortoiseshell  puss  I  have  ? 
the  sauciest  and  prettiest,  most  indulged  little  animal  that 
ever  was  everybody's  favourite.  After  this  important 
sentence  I  have  no  more  to  add,  but  that  I  am  with  the 
utmost  tenderness  yours. 


Mn.  Velany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  9  March,  1744-6. 

I  have  of  late  been  happy  in  receiving  my  dearest 
sister's  letters  regularly.  Dr.  Barber  is  generally  a 
person  sure  of  a  sincere  welcome ;  indeed  he  is  always 
welcome  on  his  own  account  as  a  very  good  sort  of  man, 
and  I  believe  a  very  good  physician ;  but  in  that  capacity 
I  hope  we  shall  have  but  little  use  for  him.  1  thank  God 
we  are  both  at  present  in  very  good  health,  and  y'  few 
warm  days  we  have  had,  have  given  an  air  of  cheerful- 
ness and  spring  that  revives  all  one's  senses,  Delville 
begins  now  to  open  its  sweets,  and  yesterday  and  the 
morning  before  I  spent  two  hours  in  my  garden  and 
paid  my  affectionate  homage  to  the  '^Pearly  Bowery 
D.D.  is  restoring  some  winding  walks  that  the  encroaching 
weeds  had  almost  smothered.  The  birds  sing  melodiously, 
and  there  is  one  chafBnge  and  two  robins  that  eat  out  of 
his  hand ;  I  wish  they  may  not  grow  quite  wild  again 
before  we  return  from  the  North ;  but  cold  and  want  will 
bring  them  to  hand  again — the  great  tamers  of  the  human 
as  well  as  the  animal  kind.  I  think  Lady  G.  S.'s  conduct 
was  very  odd  and  not  at  all  well-judged  towards  Lady 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  343 

Sunderland,  but  if  it  succeedd  we  have  reason  to  be  glad 
of  her  indiscretion. 

I  had  a  very  long  letter  from  my  brother  two  packets 
ago,  with  an  account  of  a  long  conference  he  had  with  Lord 
G  — ^  who  told  him  he  had  a  very  handsome  letter  from  me, 
and  that  he  had  desired  Lord  Combury  to  make  his  excuse 
for  not  sooner  answering  it.  My  brother  talked  of  Miss 
Granville ;  I  fear  her  prospect  is  but  indifferent ;  Lord  G. 
asked  what  could  be  done  for  Mr.  Lewes,  for  he  supposed 
he  would  not  care  to  quit  his  profession,  and  asked 
several  questions  about  him.  My  brother  told  him  he  was 
a  younger  brother,  but  of  a  very  good  family  in  Warwick- 
shire, and  had  very  good  expectations.  He  asked  wliat 
Lady  Granville  proposed  to  have  done  ?  My  brother  gave 
him  as  good  an  account  as  he  cou'd  recollect,  which  Lord 
G.  said  was  "  very  like  the  old  Countess.^"  This  was  all  that 
passed,  and  you'll  say  a  great  deal  for  my  brother  to  repeat ; 
but  his  heart  is  set  on  doing  something  for  Miss  Granville, 
as  he  thinks  her  situation  a  very  precarious  one,  which  pre- 
vents his  entering  more  into  Mr.  Dewes's  affair. 

There  is  something  very  odd  in  poor  S'  John  Stanley's 
late  behaviour,*  but  I  try  to  forget  it,  for  it  grieves  my 
heart. 

Well,  we  have  eaten  etc.  such  feasts — such  routSy  but 
thank  God  all  over,  and  most  of  my  formal  visits  returned. 
So  I  feel  a  free  woman,  and  shall  return  to  my  pencils  and 
shell-works;  the  new-married  couple  stay  with  us  till 

»  Lord  Gower. 

^  Grace,  Connteas  Granville  in  her  own  right,  died  October  18, 1744,  on  the 
same  day  as  Sarah  Duchess  of  Marlborough. 

•  From  this  sentence  it  is  probable  that  Sir  John  Stanley  continued  dissatis- 
fied with  the  marriage  of  Mrs.  Pendarves  to  Dr.  Delany,  though  not  so  much 
80  ss  Mr.  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


344  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

we  go  to  the  North,  which  I  hope  is  as  agreeable  to  them 
as  it  is  to  me. 

Mr.  Fhipps  is  come  to  Ireland  to  put  in  his  claim,  and 
carry  off,  if  he  can,  the  estate  so  long  contended  for  be- 
tween Lord  Anglesey  and  Mr.  Annesley, — ^it  will  be  fine 
harvest  for  the  lawyers ;  I  have  been  to  wait  on  Mrs. 
Phipps ;  ^  you  know  she  was  Lord  Hervey's  daughter : 
she  was  not  at  home— they  are  soon  to  dine  here. 

Was  there  ever  such  an  infatuation  as  now  reigns 
amongst  the  nobility  of  England!  Are  all  the  strange 
matches  true  ?  I  am  not  apt  to  believe  scandal,  and  don't 
know  how  to  credit  such  extraordinary  reports.  The  Duke 
of  Beaufort's '  death  is  not  to  be  lamented — ^he  was  un- 
healthy in  his  constitution  and  unhappy  in  his  circnm- 
stances,  though  possessed  of  great  honour  and  riches :  bis 
brother  is  qualified  to  make  a  better  figure,  and  his  wife  I 
hope  will  prove  an  honourable  and  virtuous  Duchess  of 
Beaufort.  The  sun  calls  me  abroad  and  the  Pearly  Bower 
has  not  been  visited  to-day. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  WeUesboume, 

Delville,  23rd  March,  1744-6. 

It  is  comical  enough  that  we  should  give  each  other  a 
relation  of  my  brother's  transactions,  I  believe  on  the  same 
day ;  but  as  he  sometimes  is  taciturn,  I  chose  rather  to 


»  Lepell,  eldest  daughter  of  John  Lord  Hervey,  married  February  26, 1743, 
Gonstantine  Phipps,  Esq.,  who  was  created  Lord  Mulgrave,  September  3, 
1767. 

«  Henry,  3rd  Duke  of  Beaufort,  married  Frances,  only  child  of  Viscount 
Scudamore,  from  whom  he  was  divorced,  died  without  issue  February  24, 
1745-6,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  brother,  Charles  Noel,  4th  Duke,  who  mar- 
ried, Ist  of  May,  1740,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  John  Berkeley,  F^.,  and  sister 
of  Norboroe  Lord  Bottetourt. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  345 

trouble  you  with  a  repetition  than  not  tell  you  aU  I 
know.  It  is  reported  here  that  Mr.  Chenevix  has  more 
mind  to  the  Deanery  of  Down  than  the  Bishopric  of 
Dromore ;  if  he  has,  let  him  take  it.  Mrs  Montague,  of 
Hanover  Square,  writes  me  word  the  Duke  of  Cumber- 
land ^  is  certainly  to  be  married,  and  that  Lady  Walling- 
ford  is  named  for  a  lady  of  the  bedchamber  to  the  Duchess, 
and  Miss  Gbanville  as  bedchamber  woman ;  and  though  I 
suppose  it  will  be  no  great  matter,  it  may  bring  her  into 
the  way  of  something  better  in  time. 

I  wrote  to  Will  Monck  about  the  pictures,  and  desired 
him  to  send  the  basons  with  their  covers  and  dishes 
belonging  to  them  to  my  brother,  that  Sir  John  Stanley  had 
left  me.  He  wrote  me  an  answer  to  say  "  the  pictures  must 
go  with  the  house  or  it  might  be  a  detriment  in  the  dis- 
posing of  it,  and  that  the  dishes  were  not  devised  to  ine^  only 
the  bausons  and  covers^     My  answer  was  as  follows : — 

Sir,—!  should  not  have  had  the  assurance  to  men- 
tion the  dishes  to  you  had  I  not  apprehended  they  belonged 
to  the  basonSy  and  it  toas  natural  for  me  to  imagine  Sir  John 
Stanley  did  not  mean  to  separate  them ;  but  whatev&i^  his 
meaning  tmsj  I  perceive  the  letter  of  the  law  gives  me  no 
claim  to  the  dishes  the  basons  stood  upon^  and  therefore  {if  it 
will  be  no  detriment  in  the  sale  of  the  house)  I  desire  you  mil 
let  a  price  beset  on  tfie  dishes  y  and  I  shall  unllingly  pay  it,  as 
the  basons  are  no  more  complete  without  them  than  a  flower 
without  a  stem.  If  you  h/xoe  sent  the  frame  belonging  to 
the  fruit  piece  with  it,  I  am  indebted  to  you  for  that,  and 


*  William  Augaatus,  Duke  of  Cumberland,  youngest  son  of  George  II., 
bom  15  th  April,  1721;  died  unmarried  in  1765.  He  was  a  Field-Marshal  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Forces,  and  commanded  the  English  forces  at  Cul- 
lodeu  and  Pontenoy. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


346  LIFE  AND  CORRBBPONDENCE 

desire  to  know  what  I  mxist  pay^  for  I  dorCtjind  thai  tww 
"  D£Vi8£D  "  with  the  picture. 

I  have  seen  Miss  McDermot,  and  had  her  story  from 
her  own  mouth.  At  half  an  hour  after  seven  I  sat  for 
the  finishing  my  picture  in  enamel ;  at  ten  went  to  paint* 
ing ;  company  came  at  two  and  dined  here ;  and  till  this 
instant  (half  an  hour  after  eight)  I  have  not  had  the  least 
moment  to  myself. 


Mrs,  Ddany  at  Mrs.  Dewes^  at  Wdlesboume. 

Delville,  20ih  May,  1745. 

I  told  you  in  one  of  my  letters  that  Miss  McDermots 
/lad  sent  to  speak  privately  to  D.D.,  and  that  I  was  in  hopes 
it  was  on  a  religious  account;  thank  God!  so  it  lias 
proved,  and  last  Sunday  they  made  their  recantation  in 
our  church.  They  had  not  been  at  mass  these  twelve 
months,  and  their  brother  died  a  Protestant.  They  had  se- 
veral conferences  with  the  Dean,  and  he  collected  texts  of 
Scripture  for  them.  What  they  most  stuck  at  was  transub- 
stantiation,  but  I  believe  they  have  been  thoroughly  con- 
vinced of  their  error  in  that  point.  Miss  McDermot  said 
''  though  she  had  been  so  barbarously  treated  among  the 
Papists  she  should  not  leave  them  were  not  her  reason 
thoroughly  convinced  of  their  errors ;"  she  has  on  the 
whole  occasion  showed  herself  a  reasonable  woman. 
They  dined  with  us  on  Sunday ;  the  ceremony  of  their 
making  their  recantation  is  their  reading  a  paper  signed 
by  them,  wherein  they  renounce  all  the  errors  of  the 
Church  of  Bome ;  the  minister  (when  they  have  read  the 
paper  aloud  in  the  midst  of  the  congregation,  just  before 
the   Communion  Service)  lays  his  hand  on  their  head 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DBLANY,  347 

and  receives  them  into  the  Church  as  converts,  and  then 
prays  for  them.  There  is.  something  very  awM  in  it, 
and  the  poor  ladies  were  under  great  confusion,  but  be- 
haved themselves  very  well,  and  seemed  extremely  glad 
when  it  was  over.  I  thought  they  would  have  been 
here  very  private  and  quiet,  but  eight  persons  that  I 
did  not  expect  came  to  dinner  beside  themselves,  still 
there  could  not  be  too  many  witnesses  of  so  good  an 
action.  All  the  company  came  to  church  as  well  as  to 
dinner,  and  we  all  went  again  in  the  afternoon;  you 
can't  think  what  a  gay  appearance  we  made  as  we  walked 
through  the  garden  to  church,  attended  by  all  the  ser- 
vants, who  were  pretty  numerous. 

I  have  now  every  thing  packed  up  for  our  journey, 
which  is  put  off  to  next  Monday.  We  shall  lie  the 
first  night  at  Mr.  Hamilton's  at  Ihinleer,  the  second 
at  Newry,  and  dine  the  third  day  at  Mount  Panther,  at 
Dr.  Mathews's,  where  we  were  last  autumn,  and  where  we 
propose  staying  some  days  till  my  domestics  are  settled. 

The  Dean  and  I  travel  in  our  chaise,  which  is  easy  and 
pleasant ;  Betty  and  Margaret,  the  cook  and  a  housemaid 
in  the  coach  and  four,  and  Peg  Hanages  (who  I  am 
breeding  up  to  be  a  housemaid)  in  a  car  we  have  had 
made  for  marketing,  and  canying  luggage,  &c.,  when  we 
travel.  Our  new  coach  will  be  ready  when  we  come  home, 
but  now  we  liire  one  for  the  northern  expedition.  Yester- 
day we  dined  at  Arteen,  at  Mr.  Donnellan's,  and  were 
met  by  Mrs.  Marly  and  Letty  Bushe.  To-day  we  dine 
at  Mrs.  Conolly's,  and  in  the  afternoon  are  to  meet  Miss 
McDermots  and  Letty  Bushe  at  Mr.  Tavemer's,  and  to 
have  a  concert  of  music.  But  the  sad  havoc  that  has 
been  abroad  damps  all  one's  pleasures  at  home. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


348  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

The  History  cf  Miss  Macdermot,  written  hy  Mrs.  Delcmy. 

The  principal  heroine  of  the  following  story  related  it 
to  me  herself  about  half  a  year  after  it  happened.  Previous 
to  the  affair,  Dr.  Delany  received  a  very  sensible  letter 
from  Miss  Macdermot  out  of  Connaught,  expressing  her 
desire  of  recanting  her  religion ;  she  was  of  an  old  Irish 
family.     She  and  her  sister  Miss  Maria,  on  the  death  of 
their  only  brother,  were  left  heiresses  of  a  large  estate 
(their  father  and  mother  had  been  long  dead).   The  oldest 
daughter  was  entitled  by  the  settlement  to  a  double 
share  of  the  estate  left  to  her  and  her  sister ;  they  had 
both  resolved  to  make  their  public  recantation  if  she 
survived  their  brother,  who  was  a  great  bigot.     On  his 
death  they  wrote  to  Dr.  Delany ;  his  answer  gave  them 
so  much  satisfaction,  that  they  fixed  a  time  to  go  to 
Dublin  to  talk  with  him  further  on  the  subject,  which 
though  they  had  not  declared  to  those  they  were  nearest 
connected  with,  was  suspected,  and  they  received  an  in- 
vitation from  their  Uncle  Flinn,  their  mother's  brother, 
(who  had  an  only  son,  who  had  made  proposals  to  the 
eldest  sister,  and  had  been  rejected  about  this  time,) 
which  they  could  not  well  refuse,  as  they  had  always 
been  on  good  terms,  though  not  on  intimate  ones.     The 
distance  allowed  of  their  going  and  returning  back  the 
same  day ;  a  day  was  therefore  named,  and  they  went 
early  in  the  morning,  and  ordered  their  chaise  to  be 
ready  for  their  return  soon  after  dinner.    When  the  hour 
came  they  went  to  take  leave ;  their  uncle  insisted  upon 
it  they  should  not  go  back  that  evening,  but  they  re- 
fused with  all  the  civility  they  could,  pleading  that  busi- 
ness obliged  them.     This  availed  them  nothing,  for  on 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  349 

enqmiy  about  their  equipage,  with  a  firm  resolution  to 
go,  they  were  told  that  the  chaise  and  servants  were 
gone,  and  would  return  the  next  day:  so  they  were 
obliged  to  submit,  though  very  unwillingly.  Miss 
Macdermot  told  me  that  she  was  seized  with  a  horror 
that  something  bad  would  happen  (she  was  not  hand- 
some, tall  and  rather  large,  but  her  person  altogether 
very  well;  she  had  a  very  sensible  countenance,  with 
spirit,  a  sweet  voice,  with  great  gentleness  of  manner 
when  she  spoke).  The  terror  which  first  seized  her  upon 
being  obliged  to  stay  continued,  and  not  without  reason, 
for  as  they  were  seated  down  to  cards  in  the  evening,  in 
rushed  four  men  in  masks  into  the  room.  Miss  Macder- 
mot, terrified  with  the  appearance  of  these  people,  started 
up  and  ran  into  the  next  apartment.  One  hid  herself 
under  the  bed,  and  the  other  behind  it,  not  finding  any 
way  out  but  the  door  by  which  they  entered,  but  not 
quick  enough  to  escape  being  seen  by  the  principal 
person  masked,  who  first  seized  Miss  Maria  who  was 
behind  the  bed,  but  on  viewing  her  said  she  was  the 
wrong  sister,  cursed  her  heartily  and  quitted  her,  and 
then  laid  violent  hands  on  Miss  Macdermot  who  was 
under  the  bed.  She  fought  manfully  to  avoid  him,  and 
he  could  not  take  hold  of  her  to  lake  her  away  tiU  all 
her  clothes  were  torn  off  except  her  stays,  her  pockets,  and 
underpetticoat.  She  then  endeavoured  to  throw  herself 
upon  her  knees,  to  implore  his  mercy,  but  he  seizing  her 
by  both  her  arms,  dragged  her  in  that  posture  through 
the  room  they  had  left,  where  nobody  remained  but  her 
uncle,  who  stood  upon  the  hearth  before  the  fire  with  his 
hands  behind  him,  with  the  coolest  indifference  at  what 
he  saw.     Miss  Macdermot  asked  him  how  he  could  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


350  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

such  a  villam  to  see  her  treated  in  such  a  way  in  his  own 
house,  and  begged  for  God's  sake  he  would  rescue  her. 
Pleading  was  to  no  purpose,  and  when  he  had  dragged 
her  into  the  hall,  it  was  crowded  with  desperate-looking 
men ;  and  about  two  hundred  of  the  same  sort  were 
assembled  about  the  door,  where  was  a  horse  and  pillion 
ready  to  receive  them  ;  and  whilst  others  of  the  gang  were 
tying  her  hands  and  feet,  this  desperate  man  mounted 
the  horse  and  she  was  placed  behind  him,  and  tied  on  as 
fast  as  possible.  They  tried  to  gag  her,  but  she  eluded 
all  their  force,  and  they  were  in  haste  to  carry  her  off. 

When  they  had  gone  about  a  mile  from  the  house,  she 
had  struggled  so  violently  as  to  get  her  hands  at  liberty 
and  threw  herself  off  the  horse.  They  were  all  armed  with 
bludgeons  and  great  swords,  one  of  which  she  seized  as 
they  were  endeavouring  to  replace  her  on  the  horse,  and 
finding  herself  at  liberty  to  walk,  she  sprang  from  them 
and  got  against  a  tree — for  though  it  was  a  dark  night, 
they  had  a  number  of  lights  with  them.  She  fought  for 
some  time  and  kept  her  station,  till  one  of  the  cruel 
gang  run  a  sword  up  her  arm,  from  her  wrist  to  her  elbow, 
in  such  a  manner  that  obliged  her  to  drop  her  weapon  ; 
as  she  could  no  longer  defend  herself  and  was  almost 
fainting  from  pain  and  anguish,  she  again  fell  into  their 
barbarous  hands,  and  their  numbers  were  constantly 
increasing. 

They  proceeded  on  in  this  manner  for  some  miles,  and 
then  stopped  at  a  cabin,  where  they  took  Miss  McDermot 
off  the  horse,  and  carried  her  in,  and  gave  her  into  the 
care  of  the  woman  that  belonged  to  it,  with  a  strict  charge 
not  to  let  her  stir,  for  her  life  would  answer  for  it  if  she 
did.    With  this  order  they  left  them  together  locked  in. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRa  DfiLANY.  351 

when  it  proved,  this  woman  had  formerly  been  Miss  M — 's 
nurse,  which  circumstance  she  hoped  would  make  her  feel 
more  compassion  for  her  present  unfortunate  situation. 
She  instantly  threw  herself  upon  her  knees,  and  begged 
the  woman  for  Gk)d's  sake  to  save  her  life  from  these 
villainous  wretches,  who  were  carrying  her  off  by  force, 
and  entreated  her  if  she  had  no  better  way  of  concealing 
her,  she  would  let  her  go  out  of  the  window,  and  she 
would  take  her  chance  for  making  her  escape.  She  took 
a  £6  note  out  of  her  pocket,  which  fortunately  they  had 
not  found,  and  offered  it  to  the  woman,  who  looked 
terrified  and  at  a  loss  what  to  do ;  when  the  door  opened, 
and  in  came  the  chief  person,  Mr.  Flinn,  with  three  or  four 
other  men,  and  one  that  was  a  priest,  who  immediately 
laid  hold  of  her,  and  said  if  she  would  submit  quietly  to 
the  ceremony  of  being  married  to  Mr.  Flinn,  she  should 
be  treated  with  all  manner  of  kindness  and  respect ;  if 
not,  he  was  resolved  to  make  her  his  wife  by  force. 

Puiding  she  was  resolute  in  not  complying  with  his 
request,  but  vehemently  asserted  that  she  would  rather 
die  than  be  united  to  such  a  monster,  on  their  laying 
hold  of  her  to  put  the  ring  on  her  finger,  she  threw 
it  off  whilst  the  priest  was  muttering  over  the  mar- 
riage ceremony,  and  springing  from  them,  snatched 
up  a  mug  of  milk,  which  she  had  acddentaUy  laid  her 
eyes  on,  standing  by  the  fire,  and  threw  it  full  in  the 
priest's  face.  At  that  moment  some  of  the  party  came  in 
and  spoke  to  Flinn  in  Irish  (which  they  supposed  she 
did  not  understand),  and  told  him  that  the  country  was 
raised  and  in  pursuit  of  them,  which  gave  her  a  gleam  of 
hope  and  supported  her  in  this  dreadful  calamity.  After 
they  had  whispered  with  one  another  some  time,  more  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


352  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

the  party  came  into  the  room  in  order  to  secure  her,  but 
they  grew  alarmed  at  finding  that  the  wound  she  had 
received  in  her  arm  bled  profusely,  and  they  could  not 
tell  what  might  be  the  consequence.  Fresh  alarms 
coming  in,  made  them  immediately  carry  her  off,  and 
they  took  her  to  a  bog  and  plunged  her  up  to  her  shoul- 
ders in  mud,  placing  a  man  on  each  side  with  pistols 
(for  they  were  armed  with  all  kinds  of  weapons)  to  pre- 
vent her  making  her  escape.  But  they  were  soon  dis- 
covered by  her  friends,  who  came  from  every  part  to 
her  relief,  and  put  her  enemies  to  flight.  They  imme- 
diately carried  her  to  a  relation's,  a  gentleman  of  consi- 
derable fortune  in  that  country,  where  with  the  help  of 
the  best  medical  advice  aud  kind  treatment,  it  pleased 
God  to  restore  her  (beyond  expectation)  after  having 
lain  twenty-one  days  in  a  violent  pain,  and  doubtftxl 
whether  she  would  live  or  die. 

It  was  thought  horrible,  but  it  appears  that  the 
plunging  her  in  the  bog  stopped  the  bleeding,  and 
by  that  means  saved  her  life.  The  poor  sister  made 
her  escape  from  her  uncle's  house  early  the  next  morn- 
ing in  the  deepest  distress,  and  immediately  raised  the 
country,  all  the  way  as  she  wtot  home,  to  go  in  pursuit 
of  her  sister,  and  try  to  recover  her,  which  was  (through 
her)  effected  as  above,  and  she  sent  for  her  to  the  gentle- 
man's house  where  her  sister  was  recovered  with  so  much 
kindness.  It  was  some  months  after  before  they  could 
put  in  execution  their  religious  scheme,  for  which  purpose 
they  came  to  Dublin  to  make  their  recantation  in  Glass- 
nevon  church  (a  parish  belonging  to  Dr.  Delany,  in 
which  his  house  at  Delville  was  situated,  out  of  the 
garden  of  which  there  was  a  door  into  the  churchyard). 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  353 

Dr.  Delany  was  perfectly  satisfied  that  they  renounced 
their  former  religion  upon  the  best  principles  of  conviction ; 
and  they  thought  themselves  happy  to  obtain  the  direc- 
tion of  a  person  so  well  able  to  satisfy  all  their  doubts. 
They  were  unwilling  to  make  the  sad  affair  which  had 
commenced  at  their  wretched  uncle's  more  public,  but  that 
was  impossible,  ss  they  were  obliged  to  prosecute  and 
appear  in  open  court  against  those  who  had  so  cruelly 
treated  them.  Miss  Macdermot,  who  was  a  very  sensible 
woman,  and  had  great  presence  of  mind^  gave  her  depo- 
sition to  a  person  eminent  in  the  law  (I  think  Dr. 
Foster),  in  so  clear  and  proper  a  manner  as  ta  be  uni- 
versally approved  of,  but  why  it  never  came  to  an  issue 
I  never  heard.  Soon  after  this  they  retired  into  the 
country,  and  returned  no  more  to  Dublin,  which  deprived 
me  of  further  acquaintance  with  them. 


Ltuiy  Sarah  Cowper^  to  Mrs.  DeweB, 

Midgham,  June  5th,  1745. 

Tour  letter,  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  came  to  me  last 
night,  and  I  can't  thank  you  enough  for  letting  me  hear 
of  you  (which  I  very  much  wished),  and  giving  me  encou- 
ragement to  renew  our  correspondence.  It  is  very  true 
that  awkwardness  and  shame  of  my  long  silence  would 
have  continually  prevented  me  writing  again,  and  this  I 
had  experience  of;  for  upon  confessing  my  fault  about 
two  months  ago  to  Miss  Pointz,  and  telling  her  that  I 
could  not  now  have  the  assurance  to  write,  she  threatened 

>  Lady  Sarah  Gowper  was  the  eldest  daughter  of  William,  1st  Eari  Cowper. 
She  died  unmarried  in  1758. 

VOL.  II.  2  A 


Digitized  by 


Google 


354  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

to  teaze  me  till  I  got  the  -better  of  my  mauvaise  honU, 
and  has  so  far  kept  her  word  that  I  think  I  have  not 
escaped  one  post  being  asked  "  have  you  writ  to  Mrs. 
Dewes  ?" 

I  once  thought  the  action  in  Manders^  gave  me  a 
pretence  of  writing  to  you,  but  the  first  letters  were  so 
imperfect  that  I  waited  for  others,  and  the  whole  was 
made  public  in  the  papers  as  soon  as  these  arrived ;  but 
if  you  know  no  particidars  except  from  the  papers,  perhaps 
the  gleanings  of  conversations  in  town,  from  a  great 
variety  of  privat-e  letters,  may  ftimish  something  new  to 
you,  and  I  will  give  you  all  that  occurs  to  me;  only 
warning  you  to  remember  that  I  don't  vouch  for  the 
truth  of  aU  particulars,  and  so  don't  care  to  be  named  as 
the  author  of  them. 

Some  circumstances  of  the  Duke's  behaviour  deUght 
me  more  than  his  bravery;  CoU.  Eussel  writes  that 
himself  with  other  officers  were  in  the  advanced  guard  the 
day  before  the  battle,  where  they  were  to  undergo  a 
good  deal  of  fatigue,  and  had  made  no  provision  for  their 
refreshment.  His  E.  H.,  (whose  care  vxis  universal), 
thought  of  this,  and  sent  some  of  his  own  servants  with 
the  provisions  they  had  brought  for  himself  to  ftumish 
these  gentlemen,  and  attend  on  them  the  whole  day. 
His  exhortations  and  example  supported  the  fight  while 
there  was  any  hope  of  success :  he  was  in  every  part  of 
the  field  where  he  saw  the  men  dispirited  and  giving 
way,  calling  out,  "  Don't  you  know  me,  my  country  men  ? 
Will  you  leave  me  ?  I  don't  ask  you  to  do  anything 
without  me;  all  I  beg  you    is   to   share  my  danger^ 

1  The  battle  of  Fontenoy  was  fought  between  the  allied  army  and  flie 
French  on  the  11th  May,  1746. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.        •  365 

When  the  retreat  was  determined  he  showed  the  same 
spirit  and  diligence  to  preserve  the  order  of  the  march, 
and  to  give  all  possible  assistance  to  the  wounded.     He 
was  one  of  the  last  that  left  the  field,  so  that  he  did  not 
reach  the  camp  till  three  next  morning,  and  great  part  of 
the  army  did  not  know  what  was  come  of  him.     While 
the  army  was  retreating,  and  he  looked  round  and  saw 
the  numbers  lost  in  the  action,  and  had  accounts  brought 
him  of  particular  persons  kiUed  or  wounded,  he  lost  all 
command  over  his  passions,  and  burst  into  a  violent  fit  of 
crying !     I  own  these  tears  of  generosity  and  humanity 
make  him  appear  much  greater  to  me  even  than  aU  the 
instances  of  his  courage.     "lis  said  the  French  king,  look- 
ing upon  the  English  that  were  killed,  said,  ''  Ma  foy  ces 
gens  meritoient  de  vivre."     And  Marshal   Saxe   said, 
"  Cette  poignee  de  gens  m'a  fait  plus  de  peine  que  tout 
le  reste."     It  was  certainly  a  glorious  effort  that  the  AUies 
made  to  raise  the  siege,  and  though  the  inequality  of  num- 
bers made  it  hazardous,  yet  if  they  had  stood  by  and 
seen  the  town  taken  without  giving  a  blow  it  would 
have  been  called  tameness  and  cowardice ;   and  indeed 
all  accounts   agree  that  if  all  parts  of  the  army  had 
behaved  equally  welly  it  would  have  been  a  complete  vic- 
tory on  the  side  of  the  AUies.     It  was  once  so  near  it, 
that  Marshal  Saxe  confesses  he  was  in  the  utmost  pain 
how  to  dispose  of  the  French  King  and  the  Dauphin ;  and 
even  at  last  the  French  would  have  fled,  had  it  not  been 
for  the  obstinate  resistance  the  Irish  regiment  of  Buckley 
made  to  the  English  attack,  and  that  decided  the  affair.     J 
say  nothing  of  Ingoldsby  ;    the  reports  of  his  conduct  are 
so  contradictory,  that  nothing  was  ever  more  mysterious ; 
but  I  suppose  it  must  be  cleared  up  soon.     The  general 

2  k2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


356  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

opinion  is  that  the  Allies  are  not  strong  enough,  even 
with  the  reinforcement  they  have  received,  to  venture 
another  engagement  at  present ;  though  if  an  opportunity 
should  offer  it  certainly  won't  be  neglected.  The  sol- 
diers have  spirit  enough  to  undertake  anything,  and  say 
that  they  don't  doubt  of  "  winning  the  rvhher^'  that  Det- 
tingen  and  Fontenoy  are  "  ordy  game  and  gameJ^ 

The  only  relation  I  have  in  the  army  is  Mr.  Madan, 
he,  thank  God !  came  off  unhurt,  and  so  did  Mr.  Colle- 
ton's^ brother.  Three  young  men  are  killed  whom  I  am 
much  concerned  for,  Mrs.  Sabine's  second  son,  a  very 
brave  and  fine  young  man,  and  Shaw  Cathcart,  a  trm 
romance  hero^  insensible  of  danger — ^these  are  a  loss  to  the 
public ;  but  I  am  much  more  touched  with  little  Moles- 
worth's  death.  I  have  known  him  ever  since  he  was 
five  years  old ;  he  was  a  youth  of  sixteen,  a  very  sober  boy, 
and  a  good  scholar,  and  capable  of  making  his  fortune 
in  a  learned  way,  but  nothing  .could  persuade  him  from 
being  a  soldier.  I  saw  him  at  Mr.  Pointz's  the  day  the 
Duke  gave  him  his  commission ;  he  was  quite  fuddled  with 
joy,  his  father  went  abroad  with  him.  It  happened 
there  was  a  vacancy  in  the  guards,  and  the  Duke  advanced 
hiTTi  to  it  the  day  before  the  battle.  Just  before  the 
engagement,  Lord  Albemarle  said  to  Molesworth,  "  Keqp 
your  son  at  home  to-day ;  his  commission  is  not  signed,  so 
that  he  really  has  no  post  in  the  guards,  and  it  will  be  no 
disgrace  to  him  that  he  is  absent ;  he  may  avoid  the 
danger  of  this  battle,  and  will  gain  some  experience 
against  another  :"  the  boy  cried,  and  said  "  if  he  was  not 
Jit  to  fight  he  ought  not  to  have  a  commission/'  went  to 

1  James  Colleton,  of  Haynes  Hill,  Esq.,  co.  Berks,  married  1731,  Lady 
Aime,  seoond  daughter  of  William,  Ist  Earl  Oowper. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  357 

the  battle,  and  after  it  was  missing.  After  several  days' 
search  his  father  thought  him  dead,  and  was  returning 
home,  when  a  note  was  given  him  on  the  road,  with  these 
words  :  "  Robert  MoUsworth  is  living,  slightly  woimded, 
and  n>  prisoner  at  Lisle.''  Mr.  Moles  worth  writ  this  to  his 
wife,  and  afterwards  a  further  account  came  that  he  was 
faUen  into  the  hands  of  a  French  Colonel,  who  was  very 
humane,  mightily  pleased  with  him,  and  treated  him  like 
his  own  child ;  the  mother  was  transported  with  this  good 
news.  Mr.  Molesworth  went  to  Lisle,  had  leave  to  take 
care  of  him,  found  the  wound  they  thought  so  slight  had 
proved  incurable,  and  the  boy,  after  Hngering  a  week, 
died  in  his  fathers  arrnsl  Captain  Wade,  son  of  the 
Marshal,  was  dangerously  wounded  by  a  very  odd  acci- 
dent :  his.  horse's  head  was  taken  off  by  a  cannon  ball, 
and  thrown  with  such  force  against  Wade's  side,  that  it 
broke  several  of  his  ribs.     Lord  Albemarle  was  thrown/ 


Mrs,  Delcmy  to  Mrs,  Granville,  at  Wel^^xmrfi, 

Holly  Mount,'  8th  June,  1744-5. 

Dbarest  Madam, 

Though  I  did  not  expect  it,  (nor  do  I  desire,  though 
you  have  a  secretary,  you  should  do  what  I  know  is  not 
agreeable  to  you,)  the  sight  of  your  hand  gave  me  a 
great  deal  of  pleasiure,  and  my  sister  must  wait  till  next 
post,  for  I  can  no  longer  defer  making  my  best  ac- 
knowledgments to  you,  madam,  for  the  favour  of  yours; 
but  you  overwhelm  me  with  shame  when  you  make  any 
acknowledgment   of  thanks  to  me,  you  make  me  feel 

^  The  end  is  missing. 

*  The  place  the  Dean  and  Mrs.  Delany  inhabited  before  they  went  to  Mount 
Panther. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


358  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

how  much  more  I  owe  you,  than  I  can  ever  pay ;  and  all 
I  can  do  is  to  take  every  opportunity  I  can  of  shewing 
you  I  gratefiilly  remember  your  goodness,  though  I  am 
unable  to  make  a  sufficient  return.  I  return  you  many 
thanks  for  your  kind  wishes  on  the  14th  of  May,^  I 
enjoy  too  many  blessings  not  to  be  thankful  for  the 
return  of  that  day. 

I  don't  at  all  doubt  my  sister's  notableness  ;  I  think 
she  has  blended  in  her  composition,  beyond  any  body  I 
know,  the  excellences  of  a  good  economist  with  the 
elegance  of  a  fine  lady,  without  any  of  the  foibles. 

Mrs.  Viney  is  too  sensible  a  woman  not  to  feel  in 
time  the  blessedness  of  her  present  condition,  to  be  rid 
of  a  tyrant,  that  would  not  suffer  her  to  have  any  enjoy- 
ment of  her  Mends  (or  even  of  her  children)  at  home  or 
abroad.  Surely  she  ought  to  be  thankful :  I  own  I 
cannot  help  being  thankftd  for  her. 

I  gave  my  sister  an  account  of  our  journey  as  far  as 
Mount  Panther,  which  is  six  mUes  from  hence.  We  came 
here  last  Tuesday  and  brought  all  the  family  with  us, 
and  found  the  house  in  very  good  .order,  and  a  good 
dinner  ready.  The  house  is  very  indifferent,  but  the 
situation  pleasant. 

The  Dean  has  agreed  for  the  building  his  new  church, 
and  is  very  busy  visiting  all  the  families  in  his  Deanery, 
which  will  be  a  laborious  work,  but  what  he  is  determined 
to  do.  It  is  very  strange,  but  the  poor  have  been  so 
neglected  here,  they  say  they  never  saw  a  clergyman  in 
their  lives  but  when  they  went  to  church. 


*  The  14th  May  was  Mary  Granville's  birthday. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  369 

Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

HoUymount,  June  11th,  1746. 

Thougli  I  have  settled  Saturday  to  be  the  day  dedicated 
to  writing,  as  I  have  several  letters  to  write  for  D.D.  as 
well  as  myself,  I  will  not  postpone  this,  but  must  thank 
my  dearest  sister  for  hers  of  the  22d  May,  which  I  re- 
ceived at  Mount  Panther  the  day  before  I  came  to  this 
place,  and  is  the  only  letter  I  have  had  from  England 
since  I  left  Delville.  Never  did  any  flock  want  more 
the  presence  and  assistance  of  a  shepherd  than  this 
Deanery,  where  there  has  been  a  most  shameful  neglect ; 
and  I  teust  in  God  it  will  be  a  very  happy  thing  for  the 
poor  people  that  D.D.  is  come  amongst  them.  The 
church  of  Down  is  very  large,  but  it  is  not  a  qaarter 
filled  with  people ;  the  Curate  has  been  so  neghgent  as 
ne!mr  to  visit  any  of  the  poor  of  the  parish,  and  a  very 
diligent  and  watchful  dissenting  preacher  has  visited 
them  on  all  occasions  of  sickness  and  distress,  and  by 
that  means  gained  great  numbers  to  the  meeting.  D.D. 
has  already  visited  a  great  number,  when  he  has  been 
with  all  the  Protestants  he  designs  to  go  to  the  Pre^- 
terians,  and  then  to  the  Papists;  they  bless  him  and 
pray  for  him  wherever  he  goes,  and  say  he  has  done 
more  good  already  than  aU  his  predecessors ;  the  last 
Dean  was  here  but  two  days  in  six  years  1 

Your  account  of  our  dear  mama's  being  so  well  was  a 
great  joy  to  me.  I  don't  wonder  your  neighbours  are 
charmed  with  her,  for  she  is — (but  I  dare  not  say  what 
she  is  as  she  will  read  my  letter,)  you  can  much  better 
comprehend  what  I  would  say  when  I  wish  to  do  justice 
to  her  excellencies  than  I  can  express. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


360  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  know  no  more  than  you  who  they  mean  by  *'  a  son 
of  my  Lord  Hervey's ;"  they  must  mean  a  broilter  of  the 
present  Lord's,  though  he  may  he  fashionable  enough  to 
have  a  son  without  a  wife  I  This  is  really  a  sweet  place,  the 
house  ordinary  but  is  well  enough  for  a  summer  Iwuse. 
Two  rooms  below,  that  is  a  small  parlour  and  drawing- 
room,  and  within  the  drawing-room  a  little  room  in  which 
there  is  a  bed,  but  the  Dean  makes  it  his  closet.  Above 
stairs  four  pretty  good  bedchambers  and  a  great  many 
conveniences  for  the  servants.  I  have  a  closet  to  my 
bedchamber,  the  window  of  which  looks  upon  a  fine  lake 
inhabited  by  swans,  beyond  it  and  on  each  side  are  pretty 
hills,  some  covered  with  wood  and  others  with  cattle. 
On  the  side  of  one  of  the  hills  is  a  gentleman's  house 
with  a  pigeon-house  belonging  to  it,  that  embellishes 
the  prospect  very  much.  About  half  a  mile  off  is  a  pretty 
wood  which  formerly  was  enriched  with  very  fine  oaks 
and  several  other  forest  trees  (it  covers  a  hill  of  about 
twenty  acres) ;  it  is  now  only  a  thicket  of  the  young 
shoots  from  their  venerable  stocks,  but  it  is  very  thick, 
and  has  the  finest  carpeting  of  violets,  primroses,  aad 
meadow  sweet,  with  innumerable  inferior  shrubs  and 
weeds,  which  make  such  a  mass  of  colouring  as  is  de- 
lightful. But  thorny  and  dangerous  are  the  paths,  for 
with  these  sweets  are  interwoven  treacherous  nettles  and 
outrageous  brambles !  but  the  Dean  has  undertaken  to 
clear  away  those  usurpers,  and  has  already  made  some  pro- 
gress :  it  is  called  Wood  Island,  though  it  is  no  more 
than  a  peninsula ;  the  large  lake  that  almost  surrounds 
it  is  often  covered  with  threescore  couple  of  swans  at  a 
time.  On  the  other  side  of  the  lake  are  hills  of  various 
shapes,  and  on  the  side  of  one  of  them  the  town  of  Down. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  361 

The  ruins  of  the  old  cathedral  are  on  an  eminence  just 
opposite  to  Wood  Island,  from  whence  I  have  taken  a 
drawing.  D.D.  is  making  a  path  round  the  wood  large 
enough  to  drive  a  coach ;  in  some  places  it  is  so  thick 
as  to  make  it  gloomy  in  the  brightest  day ;  in  other  places 
a  view  of  the  lake  opens,  and  most  of  the  trees  are  em- 
broidered with  woodbine  and  the  ''fiauniing  eglantine'' 
Four  extraordinary  seats  are  already  inadey  one  in  an  oak 
the  other  three  in  ash-trees.  This  afternoon  we  proposed 
spending  some  hours  there,  but  the  ram  drove  us  baxjk 
again ;  on  the  beach  of  the  lake  are  a  great  many  pretty 
cockle  shells,^  which  will  not  be  neglected  when  the  wea- 
ther will  permit  me  to  go  to  it. 

This  has  been  our  chief  entertainment  abroad.  At 
home,  on  Sunday  last,  it  being  the  9th  of  June*  (a  day 
I  have  great  reason  to  celebrate),  we  had  Dr.  Mathews's 
family  and  Mr.  Bayley's  to  dine  here;  they  are  the 
best  jof  our  neighbours,  and  I  was  not  a  little  pleased  to 
find  that  we  have  none  nearer  only  some  good  plain  sort 
of  people  at  Down,  that  don't  set  up  for  visitors.  As 
Down  is  three  miles  from  hence,  and  we  cannot  go  to 
prayers  in  the  afternoon  if  we  dine  at  home,  the  Dean 
designs  to  dine  every  Sunday  at  Down-  There  is  a 
public-house  kept  by  a  clever  man  who  was  butler 
formerly  to  one  of  the  Deans ;  he  has  a  very  good  room 
in  his  house,  and  he  is  to  provide  a  good  dinner,  and  the 
Dean  will  fill  his  table  every  Sunday  with  aH  the  towns- 
men and  their  wives  hy  tumSy  which  will  oblige  the  people, 
and  give  us  an  opportunity  of  going  to  church  in  the 
afternoon  without  any  fatigue. 


*  Query  fresh- w.iter  mussels  ? 

2  "  The  9th  of  June  "  is  here  mentioned  in  a  manner  which  confirms  the 
Editor's  belief  that  it  was  Mrs.  Delany's  wedding-day. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


362  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

We  rise  about  fieven,  have  prayers  and  breakfast  over 
by  nine.  In  the  mornings  D.D.  makes  his  visits,  I  draw ; 
when  it  is  fair  and  he  walks  out  I  go  with  him :  we  dine 
at  two ;  in  the  afternoon  when  we  can't  walk  out,  reading 
and  talking  amuse  us  till  supper,  and  after  supper  I 
make  shirts  and  shifts  for  the  poor  naked  wretches  in  the 
neighbourhood.  I  have  begun  to  copy  an  old  picture  of 
Mary  Queen  of  Scots,  which  is  but  indifferently  painted 
but  the  face  pretty ;  and  to  indulge  the  Dean,  who  is 
smitten  with  it,  I  have  undertaken  to  copy  it.  I  wish 
you  would  write  down  every  day,  whether  foul  or  fair, — 
I'll  do  the  same  and  compare  when  we  meet.  Pray  let 
me  know  how  near  you  are  to  Meridan. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Holly  Mount,  21  June,  1745. 

I  have  two  dear  charming  letters  of  my  dearest  sister's 
to  answer  ;  last  post  should  have  been  the  day,  but  twelve 
people  that  came  to  dine  here  prevented  me.  The  Dean 
wheedled  me  away  to  his  wood  in  the  morning  as  soon 
as  breakfast  was  over.  I  returned  before  twelve,  in  hopes 
of  having  time  to  write  my  letter ;  but  just  as  I  was 
preparing  materials.  Dr.  Mathews  and  his  family  came ; 
80  I  chose  to  defer,  that  I  might  send  a  long  letter. 
They  were  all  the  company  I  expected^  but  there  were 
added  to  th6m  by  dinner-time,  Mr.  Johnston,  a  very  good 
sort  of  man  (agent,  that  is,  rent^atherer,  to  the  Dean)  ; 
his  wife  and  niece,  both  fine  ladies  I  the  sheriff  of  the 
county ;  and  three  persons  of  very  different  characters — 
Mr-  Hall,  a  crafty,  mercenary  man,  not  at  all  esteemed 
or  countenanced  by  the  good  people  of  this  country ;  Mr. 
Ward,  a  plain,  honest  curate ;  and  Mr.  Comabee,  a  French- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  363 

man  by  birth,  who  has  a  living  in  this  neighbourhood — a 
polite,  lively,  entertaining  man,  just  come  from  the  Queen 
of  Hungary.  He  was  chaplain  some  years  abroad  to  Mr. 
Robinson  the  envoy,  and  much  esteemed  by  him ;  he  is  a 
particular  friend  of  Lady  GoUadon's,  and  has  been  recom- 
mended to  the  Dean  by  her ;  he  is  agreeable  and  well- 
behaved,  but  as  for  any  other  merit  he  is  too  great  a 
stranger  to  make  any  other  judgment  of  him. 

Wednesday  I  went  to  Down  with  the  Dean,  and 
whilst  he  was  visiting  the  poor,  walked  round  the  ruins  of 
the  cathedral,  which  has  been  a  fine  Gothic  building ;  it 
is  situated  on  an  eminence  just  above  the  town,  and  com- 
mands an  extensive  view  of  mountains  and  lakes.  I  was 
called  from  my  attention  on  this  venerable  ruin,  by  the  bell 
that  rung  for  prayers,  after  which  we  went  home,  and  as 
soon  as  dinner  was  over  we  walked  to  Wood  Island,  where 
the  Dean  amused  himself  with  his  workmen,  and  I  at  my 
work  under  the  shelter  of  a  young  oak  in  which  D.D.  has 
made  a  very  snug  seat.  When  he  had  discharged  his  labour- 
ers we  set  forward  for  adventures ;  and  as  bold  as  Don 
Quixote,  he  undertook,  armed  with  a  stout  cane  instead  of 
a  lance,  and  I  (with  my  shepherdess's  crook)  followed 
intrepid,  to  penetrate  the  thickest  part  of  the  wood,  where 
human  foot  had  not  trod  I  believe  for  ages.  After  magnani- 
mously combating  brakes,  briars,  and  fern  of  efnomwus  dze 
and  thickness,  we  accomplished  the  arduous  task,  and  were 
well  rewarded  during  our  toil  by  finding  many  pretty spot^ 
enamelled  and  perfumed  with  variety  of  sweet  flowers, 
particularly  the  woodbine  and  mid  rose  which  grow  here 
in  great  abundance.  We  came  home  as  weary  and  warm 
as  we  used  to  do  frequently  at  Calwich,  and  enjoyed  the 
refreshment  of  an  .easy  seat,  and  the  pleasure  of  talking 


Digitized  by 


Google 


364  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

over  our  toils,  as  you  and  I  and  our  dear  brother  have 
often  done  there,  and  hope  we  may  often  again. 

I  hope  this  letter  will  salute  you  together  at  Wels- 
boume ;  I  wrote  him  a  long  letter  last  post,  and  directed 
it  to  Calwich.  The  death  of  the  Bishop  of  Clogher*  may 
make  an  alteration  in  our  aflFairs,  and  if  it  does,  I  fear  it 
must  in  our  schemes ;  for  should  D.D.  be  made  a  Bishop, 
he  must  attend  the  Parliament  this  winter,  and  our 
journey  to  England  cannot  be  undertaken  till  the  spring, 
as  the  bishopric  must  be  taken  if  offered,  or  it  may  not 
again  be  offered ;  though  a  small  one  will  not  be  accepted. 
I  believe  he  will  be  condemned  in  general  for  this,  but  I 
own  I  think  him  quite  in  the  rigfU ;  and  I  am  better 
pleased  to  have  him  remain  Dean  of  Down,  than  have 
him  at  the  fag  end  of  all  the  Bishops  !  If  they  give  us 
Kildare  I  shall  be  at  the  height  of  my  wishes  as  far  as 
they  regard  any  worldly  pre/ennent ;  though  Clogher  is 
more  considerable  by  five  hundred  pounds  a-year;  but 
the  Deanery  of  C.  Church  being  annexed  to  the  Bishopric 
of  KQdare  obliges  a  residence  in  or  near  Dublin,  and  so 
Delville  might  be  our  palace.  The  deferring  the  pleasure 
of  seeing  my  dear  friends  in  England  this  year,  will  be 
a  vast  disappointment  to  me,  but  if  this  happens,  I  shall 
have  the  joy  of  being  with  them  a  whole  year  instead  of 
half  a  year,  for  if  D.D.  continues  Dean  of  Down,  he  must 
be  here  next  summer  to  finish  the  good  works  he  is  now 
laying  the  foundation  of,  and  we  shall  hardly  be  able  to 
leave  this  place  till  towards  September. 

You  ask  me  "  was  not  the  standish  adorned  laith  poetry  T 
It  was  not, — a  long  biU  in  Chancery  to  answer  frightened 


»  Dr.  John  Sterne,  Bishop  of  Clogher,  from  1717  to  1745,  when  he  was  suc- 
ceeded by  Dr.  Robert  Clayton,  Bishop  of  Cork  and  Roes. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  365 

away  the  muses.  D.D's  constant  attention  to  me,  his 
indulgence  on  all  occasions,  his  tenderness,  and  the  regard 
he  has  for  all  those  I  love,  testify  his  affection  with 
more  force  than  the  muses  can  dictate ;  thet/  indeed  help 
to  illustrate  a  growing  passion,  but  when  once  it  is 
arrived  to  the  dignity  of  a  settled  friendship  their  aid  is 
not  wanted,  though  at  all  times  their  company  is  desirable 
and  agreeable.  Poor  Betty  Winnington^  was  at  her  last 
prayers,  indeed.     What  a  match  for  her ! 

In  your  letter  dated  the  29th  of  May,  you  say  Netoport 
goes  to  Col.  next  month ;  in  that  of  June  5th,  that  you  are 
in  hopes  of  seeing  my  brother  in  a  fortnight : — by  that  I 
suppose  our  cousins  have  made  their  visit. 

I  am  very  sorry  to  find  here  and  everywhere  people  out 
of  character,  and  that  mne  and  tea  should  enter  where 
they  have  no  pretence  to  he,  and  usurp  the  rural  food  of 
syllabub,  &c.  But  the  dairymaids  wear  large  hoops  and 
velvet  hoods  instead  of  the  round  tight  petticoat  and  straw 
hat,  and  there  is  as  much  foppery  introduced  in  the/(?od 
as  in  the  dress, — the  pure  simplicity  of  jf  country  is  quite 
lost !  The  Dean  is  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  caution 
of  not  over-fatiguing  himself;  but  he  served  you  as  he  is 
often  served, — he  hears  jo\xpreach  and  oims  your  doctrine 
good,  but  does  not  practise :  the  truth  is  he  cannot,  for 
he  finds  there  has  been  such  a  total  neglect  of  a  parish 
ministers  duty  here,  that  it  has  cut  out  a  great  deal  of 
work  for  him;  but  as  it  is  a  work  worthy  of  a  good 
Xtian,  I  don't  doubt  but  he  will  be  enabled  to  go 
through  it. 

Yesterday,  Mr.  Bayles  and  his  lady  and  Mrs.  Murray 

^  Elizabeth,  second  daughter  of  Francis  Winnington,  Esq.,  married,  Regi- 
nald Wyniat,  Esq.,  of  Stanton  Hall,  Worcestershire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


366  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

(a  lady  painter),  who  live  five  miles  off,  dined  with  us. 
We  dine  with  them  to-morrow,  and  as  soon  as  the 
weather  is  settled  enough  for  an  expedition,  we  are  to  meet 
at  Arglass,  about  seven  miles  off,  where  there  are  fine  ruins, 
to  cany  cold  meat,  and  make  a  merry  day  of  it ;  and  I 
am  to  provide  paper  and  pencil  for  taking  views  :  I  have 
taken  two  of  Down,  and  they  are  placed  in  the  book, 
which  will  travel  with  me  to  England — hut  when?  that 
the  i**  L*  must  determine.  I  feel  very  oddly  about  it,  and 
cannot  tell  how  to  wish  heartily  for  this  bishopric,  and  yet  I 
do  wish  for  it  too,  for  if  does  not  come  now,  it  never  will 
come. 

How  near  are  you  to  Meridan  ?     Pray  ask  my  brother 
for  the  account  of  the  travelling  bog. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mn,  Dewes, 

Holly  Mount,  28  June,  1745. 

I  am  very  sensible  of  the  pleasure  my  dearest  sister 
must  have  in  seeing  my  brother  at  Welsboume.  The 
meeting  of  friends  is  everywhere  a  delight,  but  to  receive 
them  in  one's  own  home  gives  the  most  pleasure, — a 
happiness  I  languish  for,  and  must,  till  time  and  their 
convenience  bestow  it  on  me.  I  have  now  for  the 
greatest  part  of  my  life  been  the  visitor,  and  though  I 
am  possessed  now  of  a  pleasant  and  commodious  dwelling, 
where  I  could  receive  my  friends  with  great  joy,  I  am 
debarred  that  blessing,  but  hope  I  shall  find,  in  time, 
that  there  is  no  more  hazard  or  inconvenience  in  their 
coming  to  m^,  than  in  my  going  to  them !  God  knows 
whether  we  are  to  meet  before  spring  or  not! 

Lord  G.  went  to  my  Lord  C.  as  soon  as  he  was  told 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRa  DELANY.  367 

of  the  Bishop  of  Clogher's  death,  and  demanded  that 
Bishopric  for  D.D.  Lord  C.  said  it  was  engaged  to  a 
Bishop ;  but  explained  no  farther  (I  suppose  the  removes 
not  being  yet  settled),  and  added  he  should  "  not  forget  his 
friend."  K  the  Bishopric  is  to  be  given  to  a  Bishop,  it 
will  of  course  occasion  removes.  I  heard  some  time  ago 
that  Lord  C.  had  declared  that  whenever  he  had  a  good 
Bishopric  in  his  power  he  would  give  it  to  the  Bishop  of 
Cloyne  (Berkeley) ;  and  if  he  does  I  shall  honour  him  for 
distinguishing  a  man  of  so  much  merit,  and  may  then 
have  reason  to  hope  D.D.  will  have  a  fair  chance  of 
being  preferred  as  he  deserves.  Clojoie  is  a  middling 
Bishopric,  not  to  be  refiised,  but  1  own  Ealdare  alone  is 
what  I  loish  for.  I  hope  my  brother  may  be  with  you 
still,  though  I  know  he  does  not  make  long  visits. 

Never  do  I  remember  such  a  season !  if  it  continues, 
this  country  will  be  undone ;  though  now  there  is  as  fair  a 
show  of  com  as  ever  I  saw  in  the  vale  of  Evesham. 

Last  Monday  there  was  a  fair  at  a  town  four  miles  from 
hence  called  Clogh,  where  Dr.  Mathews's  family  were  to 
have  met  us,  and  we  proposed  it  a  day  of  mirth ;  but  it 
proved  so  wet  and  cold,  we  sat  by  the  fire  aU  day.  I  am 
sorry  for  the  accident  to  Lady  Stanley's  picture ;  but  I 
beheve  it  can  be  easily  repaired.  I  have  drawn  a  good 
deal  since  I  came  here,  taken  three  views,  and  finished 
some  I  had  sketched  out.  I  have  borrowed  a  fine  picture 
of  the  old  Duke  of  Ormond's,  done  by  Sir  Peter  Lely, 
which  I  hope  to  copy ;  but  we  are  going  a  little  progress 
next  week.  D.D.  is  to  preach  the  visitation  sermon  for 
the  Bishop  of  Down  at  Lisbum,  twenty  miles  from  hence. 
They  say  that  part  of  the  country  is  very  pleasant,  and 
the  Dean  will  not  go  without  me ;  so  on  Monday  we  set 


Digitized  by 


Google 


368  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

forward,  and  shall  return  on  Saturday.  We  are  to  be 
at  a  clergyman's  house  (a  nephew  of  Mrs.  Mathews's) 
Mr.  Geer  by  name ;  he  lives  within  two  miles  of  Lis- 
bum.     Our  best  love  and  service  salutes  Welsboume. 

We  have  got  an  Irish  harper  in  the  house,  who  plays 
a  great  variety  of  tunes  very  well ;  he  plays  to  us  at  our 
meals,  and  to  me  whilst  I  am  drawing.  Lady  Sarah's 
letter  is  not  come  yet. 

Is  Lady  Archi.  Hiunilton  really  deposed  ? 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  DeiveSj  at  Caltnch. 

Holly  Mount,  13  July,  1745. 

Your  letters,  dated  the  1 8th  June  from  Welsboume,  and 
the  22nd  from  Calwich,  now  lie  before  me.  I  don't  at  all 
wonder,  at  your  taking  such  a  flight,  when  you  could 
.leave  your  boys  under  so  good  an  inspector.  To  see  a 
friend  one  loves  there  are  few  difficulties  in  the  way  that 
cannot  be  removed ;  and  when  we  consider  how  precarious 
our  enjoyment  of  earthly  blessings  are,  ^tis  unse  to  seize 
every  reasonable  opportunity  of  gratifying  ourselves  in 
what  is  laudable.  Never  did  heart  yearn  more  than  mine 
did  to  have  added  to  the  society  at  Calwich,  where  so  many 
of  my  friends  were  met,  and  to  have  made  up  the  group 
of  CfranvUleSy  of  which  so  few  are  now  remairmig  I  The 
Dean  wished  as  heartily  as  I  did,  but  duties  call  him 
another  way ;  and  he  has  found  so  much  to  do  here, 
by  the  unworthy  and  negligent  behaviour  of  his  curate, 
that  he  has  hardly  an  hour  in  the  week  to  himself:  it 
is  a  vast  parish,  and  he  is  determined  to  visit  it  thorotighh/. 
If  he  can  have  finished  that  important  work  by  the  time 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  369 

of  the  assizes,  as  soon  as  they  are  over  (which  I  fear  will 
not  be  till  the  middle  of  August),  we  shall  go  to  Delville ; 
and  if  the  Bishopric  is  then  filled  up,  and  we  are  over- 
looked, we  shall  hasten  to  England  with  all  expedition. 

I  have  a  very  good  notion  of  my  brother's  improve- 
ments at  Calwich  :  his  good  taste,  and  the  natural  beauties 
of  the  place,  must  make  it  very  delightful.  But  there  is 
something  more  to  make  it  so  to  us — the  person  it 
belongs  to !  BSs  tenderness  to  y^  penny  flowers,^  brought 
the  tears  into  my  eyes,  and  gave  my  heart  that  sort  of  sen- 
sation which  can  only  be  raised  by  the  delicacy  of  true 
firiendship — something  not  to  be  exprest.  I  have  three 
drawings  of  Calwich  which  I  look  at  every  day ;  when  I 
return  to  Dublin  I  will  endeavour  to  contribute  to  his 
grotto.  D.D.  has  almost  finished  all  he  designs  doing  in 
Wood  Island,  which  is  really  a  very  pretty  spot ;  and  we 
walk  to  it  sometimes  twice  in  a  day.  I  am  now  very  busy 
copying  the  fine  picture,  after  Sir  P.  Lely,  of  the  old  Duke 
of  Ormond,  and  hope  I  shall  make  it  like,  I  paint  it  in 
oil.  Tour  pictures  were  not  dry  enough  to  send  when  I 
left  Dublin ;  you  shall  have  them  as  soon  as  *!  go 
home. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Holly  Mount,  20  July,  1745. 

Whether  this  letter  wiU  salute  my  dear  sister  under 
the  dear  Calwich  tent,  or  within  her  own  walls  I  know 
not,  but  as  I  shall  write  to  my  mother  at  Welsboume, 
I  choose  to  direct  this  to  Calwich,  that  you  may  not  fail 

1  ^*  Feimy  flowenJ*  This  prol»bly  alluded  to  the  care  Mr.  Granville  had 
shown  for  the  plant  called  "  Penny-leaf,"  at  Calwich,  which  was  associated 
with  his  sister  and  her  former  name. 

VOL.    II.  2  B 


Digitized  by 


Google 


370  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

of  hearing  of  me,  unless  a  letter  comes  before  I  seal  this 
that  may  alter  the  direction.  Happy  am  I  that  the 
Granville  tent  is  pitch'd  on  the  peaceful  plains  of  Calwich, 
and  not  amongst  the  bloody  warriors:  how  miserable 
should  we  be  at  this  time  were  it  otherwise  than  it  is ! 
The  distress  abroad  makes  my  heart  ache  every  hour  of  the 
day ;  God  only  knows  where  it  will  end.  We  may  fear  the 
worst  as  we  deserve  it,  but  I  hope  ten  righteous  mm  may 
he  found  thai  will  yet  save  the  city :  and  so  I  leave  this 
melancholy  subject  to  regale  myself  with  the  Violet,  the 
Primrose^,  &c.,  who  have  not  been  a  little  refreshed  by  the 
"  Pearly  Dewes^  and  I  see  my  brother  and  the  cousin  Fo. 
at  the  head  of  the  females  well  pleased  and  pleasing.  I 
know  no  more  of  bishoprics.  The  camp  has  drove  all 
thoughts  of  the  church  out  of  statesmen's  heads  for  the 
present,  but  had  tJie  one  been  better  regarded,  perhaps  the 
other  would  not  have  been  in  the  deplorable  way  it  seems 
to  be  in  at  present. 

This  is  Holly  Mount,  not  HoLY-mount,  and  does  not 
belong  to  the  Deanery,  but  is  a  hired  place  the  Dean  has 
takenf  tUl  a  Deanery-house  is  built. 

I  believe,  indeed,  Cuz  Fo.  and  you  have  many  a 
motherly  conversation  that  has  set  Violet  a  gaping,  but 
I  hope  to  see  the  day  when  she  can  pay  you  in  your  own 
coin ;  though  I  know  so  few  men  worthy  of  her  I  don't 
know  what  to  wish  about  it.  You  have  not  mentioned  my 
favourite  bower  at  the  end  of  the  pond.  I  hope  it  flourishes  ? 
and  where  is  the  tent  pitched  now  ?  Has  my  brother  got  a 
housekeeper  that  pleases  him  ?  If  wishes  could  bring  us 
together,  either  you  and  yoiy:  company  would  be  here  or  I 
with  you.    I  dreaint  Isisi  night  my  brother  was  with  me  at 

1  The  Honourable  Anne  Granville  and  her  sister  Grace,  Mra.  Foley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  371 

Delville,  and  oh  my  happiness !  I  hope  the  Fair  Maid  of 
Honour  keeps  up  her  intimacy  with  Lady  Middlesex  •/  if 
she  does  I  should  think  it  might  be  in  her  power  to  get 
Violet  a  promise  of  the  next  vacancy  for  Bed-chamber 
woman :  Mrs.  Herbert  now,  I  suppose,  quits  that  post. 
We  shall  not  be  at  all  pleased  with  Lord  Kildare  ^  if  he 
marries  an  English  woman  that  will  make  him  live  in 
England :  he  has  forsaken  a  very  pretty  cousin  of  his,  to 
whom  he  addressed  himself  before  his  father  died,  and 
gained  her  affection.  His  father's  ambition  was  not  satis- 
fied with  such  a  match,  though  no  manner  of  objection 
could  be  made  to  Miss  O'Brian,  who  is  very  pretty,  and  like 
my  cousin  Foley — so  like,  that  I  met  her  once  at  an  assem- 
bly in  Dublin,  and  followed  her  from  room  to  room  to  have 
the  pleasure  of  looking  at  her.  My  Lord  Kildare '  at  his 
death,  they  say,  made  his  son  promise  not  to  marry  her, 
not  knowing  how  far  they  were  engaged  to  each  other  ; 
and  the  young  man  very  basely  did  not  tell  him,  for  as 
fie  was  a  good  man  it  is  thought  he  wou  d  not  have 
insisted  on  his  breaking  his  contract,  which  he  has  done, 
and  my  Lady  Kildare  has  made  her  a  present  of  a  thousand 
pound,  2^pooT  recompence  for  the  loss  of  the  man  she  loved, 
the  first  Earl  of  the  kingdom  with  the  greatest  estate. 

The  Dean  wishes  so  much  to  see  the  Maid  of 
Honour  well  married,  and  is  such  an  encourager  to 
matrimony,  that  he  will  hasten  to  England  with  all 
expedition  to  perform  the  office  for  Miss  Granville  at  the 

>  Grace  Boy le,  only  daughter  and  sole  heiress  of  Richard  Viscount  Shannon. 

«  James,  20th  Earl  of  Kildare,  married  Fehruary  7,  1746,  Emilia  Mary, 
daughter  of  Charles  Duke  of  Richmond  and  Lennox.  His  lordship  was  created 
Viscount  Leinster  in  Feb.  1746,  Marquis  of  Kildare  in  March,  1761,  and 
Duke  of  Leinster,  November  26,  1766.    He  died  November  19, 1733. 

3  Robert,  19th  Earl  of  Kildare,  died  February  20, 1773-4. 

2b2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


372  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

shortest  warning,  since  she  does  him  the  honour  to 
prefer  him. 

I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  Mr.  Stanley,  apologizing 
for  Mr.  Monck ;  who  told  him  I  wrote  him  two  letters, 
which  had  exasperated  him  very  much;  but  that  he 
always  intended  *'  making  me  a  present''  of  the  dishes  with 
the  basons,  which  he  is  ready  to  deUver  to  my  order :  I 
win  take  them  as  I  think  them  my  own^  but  cannot 
accept  them  "as  a  present;''  I  shall  desire  them  to  be 
sent  to  my  brother  s  house. 


Lady  Sarah  Cowper  to  Mrs.  Bewex, 

Haynes  Hill,  near  Twyford,  Berkshire. 
July  25th,  1745. 

My  dear  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Perhaps  it  may  appear  very  unreasonable  to  you 
that  I  should  already  expect  an  answer  to  my  letter — I 
who  am  so  lazy  myself,  and  have  so  little  right  to 
demand  an  exact  correspondence  from  my  friends ;  but 
you  have  been  so  indulgent  to  me,  that  by  hearing 
nothing  of  you  I  can't  help  fearing  something  disagree- 
able has  happened ;  that  you,  or  some  of  your  family, 
are  not  well,  or  have  some  other  grief,  and  there  is  no  end 
of  imagining  all  that  may  be  ;  but  if  you  are  well  and 
happy,  it  will  be  kind  to  let  me  know  it,  because  I  am 
really  uneasy  for  you.  My  letter  may  indeed  be  lost ; 
I  should  be  sorry  for  that,  too ;  it  was  a  long,  incoherent 
account  of  all  I  had  heard  of  the  battle  at  Fontenoy,  and 
it  fill'd  five  sides  of  paper,  and  I  should  not  be  pleased 
to  have  it  fall  into  other  hofnds.  I  am  now  with  Lady 
Anne,  and  propose  staying  here  all  the  summer.     I  :mi 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  373 

well  myself,  but  she  contmues  in  a  low  way,  such  as  I 
am  not  satisfied  with,  though  she  makes  no  complaints ; 
her  nerves  will  probably  never  recover  the  shock  of  the 
fit,  and  all  to  be  hoped  is,  that  with  proper  care  she  may 
never  have  another. 

The  public  aSkirs  are  not  in  a  way  to  raise  our  spirits, 
and  that  we  have  no  army  news  from  Flanders  is  come 
to  be  a  comfort,  for  there  is  no  reason  to  hope  success, 
and  a  great  deal  to  fear  if  the  Allies  should  be  attacked. 
The  news  of  a  great  victory  on  the  Ehine  is  sunk  to 
nothing,  and  the  election  of  an  emperor  seems  to  be 
deferred.  I  hear  from  town  they  have  made  rejoicings 
for  our  success  at  Cape  Breton  ;^  it  is  said  to  be  a  very 
valuable  acquisition,  and  that  is  some  comfort  in  these 
bad  times. 

I  will  stop  here  and  not  venture  another  long  letter 
till  I  know  if  you  received  the  first,  and  if  you  were 
not  tired  with  it ;  that  is  a  fear  I  have  just  thought  of, 
and  in  reason  should  take  place  of  the  others  I  men- 
tioned ;  but  I  find  those  that  regard  you  take  faster  hold 
on  my  imagination  than  that  which  would  only  mortify 
myself  My  sister  desires  humble  service  to  you.  I  beg 
my  compliments  to  Mr.  Dewes,  and  that  you  will  name 
me  to  your  children,  and  try  to  make  them  understand 
that  there  is  such  a  person  in  the  world  who  never  saw 
them,  and  yet  who  is  sincerely  anxious  for  their  welfare. 
I  am,  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes, 
Your  very  affectionate 

And  obliged  humble  servant, 

S.  CowPEa. 


i  Taken  from  the  Franch  in  June,  1745. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


374  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  ctt  WeUbaume. 

Holly  Mount,  26  day  of  July,* 
(A  dajf  I  love  most  truly ^ 
And  celebrate  most  duly,)  1745. 

My  dearest  sister,  many  happy  returns  may  you  see  of 
this  day  to  bless  your  family  and  firiends  !  My  heart  over- 
flows with  warm  wishes  and  with  gratitude  for  the  treasure 
of  friendship  this  day  procured  me.  This  is  a  subject 
(were  I  to  indulge  it)  would  carry  me  from  all  others, 
but  words  are  not  wanting  at  this  date  to  express  the 
mutual  happiness  we  have  enjoyed  together,  and  we  have 
each  of  us  felt  it  beyond  what  words  can  express. 

To-morrow  we  go  to  a  place  called  BaUyculter,  where 
one  of  the  Dean's  curates  lives ;  he  is  to  preach  on  Sunday 
at  that  church,  and  in  the  evening  we  return  again :  it  is 
about  eight  miles  off.  I  hope  we  shall  get  home  to  my 
dear  Delville  by  the  20th  of  August  I  had  yesterday  a 
letter  from  Lady  Chesterfield,  who  says,  *'  I  hope  to  see  you 
soon  in  Ireland,  which  mil  he  a  great  pleasure  to  us"  and 
as  they  are  to  be  in  Dublin  by  the  latter  end  of  August, 
it  would  not  look  well  in  us  to  run  away  without  waiting 
on  them,  and  I  would  willingly  give  my  Lord  Chester- 
field an  opportunity  of  knowing  D.D.,  which  cannot  be 
but  by  their  spending  a  quiet  day  together  at  Delville, 
where  we  shall  not  entertain  them  as  a  royal  pair,  but  in 
a  private  quiet  way.  This  will  keep  us  till  the  middle  of 
September,  and  as  Michealmass  "  riggs"  (or  winds)  have 
an  ill  name,  we  think  it  best  to  defer  our  journey  to 
October,  which  generally  gives  us  calm  pleasant  weather 
— so  pray  God  send  us  a  happy  meeting ! 

Yesterday  we  had  seventeen  people  to  dine  Mrith  us,  and 


^  2Qth  July.     Ann  Granville's  birthday 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  375 

as  this  house  is  not  bigger  than  Bradley,  yon  may 
think  we  were  well-stuffed.  D.D.  and  I  shall  dine  to- 
day tete-a-tete,  and  we  drank  your  health  this  morning  in 
whey  and  tea.  The  lovely  weather  we  now  have  gladdens 
our  hearts,  I  hope  you  partake  of  our  sunshine  as  you  did 
of  our  raii^  I  have  been  very  busy  this  week  at  my 
painting,  and  shall  next  week  I  hope  finish  my  picture  of 
the  old  Duke  of  Ormond  after  Sir  Peter  Lely,  a  picture 
that  has  (and  will)  cost  me  a  great  deal  of  pains. 

I  must  end  as  I  begun,  with  wishing  my  dearest  sister 
every  felicity  this  world  can  afford.  I  am  with  the  ut- 
most tenderness  and  fideUty,  ever  yours,  ^  j. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Bewes, 

Holly  Mount,  10  Aug.  1745. 

I  hope  your  ramble  will  do  you  good.  So  much 
good  company,  I  think,  must  have  been  a  rare  cordial  to 
the  Hermit^  I  find  his  domestics  are  not  right  yet,  nor 
can  they  ever  be  in  good  order  till  he  has  a  wife  to 
manage  them,  for  mm  are  no  judges  of  domestic  affairs; 
we  were  designed  for  that  purpose,  and  have  the  talents 
that  are  Jit  for  the  purpose.  What  you  tell  me  of 
Lady  F.  S.  is  very  odd,  I  don't  know  what  authority  she 
had  for  what  she  said,  but  I  believe  Lord  G.  has  more 
of  Lord  C/s  confidence  than  she  has.  I  must  transcribe  six 
lines 'of  Dr.  Barber's  on  D.D.,  that  he  sent  me  last  post. 

Let  others  gain  from  power  a  titled  narae, 
Unconscious  of  the  noble  rights  to  fame ! 
On  thee  the  mitre  could  reflect  no  Ught, 
Where  learning,  genius,  virtue,  taste  unite, 
Circling  thy  head  with  glory's  brightest  rays  ; 
Viceroys  can  neither  give  nor  damp  that  blaze. 


*  Mr,  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


376  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Your  account  of  poor  Lord  North's^  family  has  made 
my  heart  ache ;  but  Providence,  who  sees  fit  to  send  him 
these  severe  trials  of  his  resignation,  I  don't  doubt  wiU 
support  him. 

I  am  to  dress  and  dine  abroad,  at  Mr.  Bayley's,  seven 
miles  off.  I  am  sorry  my  mama  talks  of  loaving  you ; 
I  know  how  loth  you  must  be  to  part  with  her,  and  if 
all  my  friends  are  divided  when  I  come  to  England,  my 
visits  must  be  so  too,  which  will  allow  me  but  little  time 
to  stay  with  each.  I  have  had  a  letter  from  my  brother 
since  his  return  home,  and  have  heard  lately  from 
Welbeck  and  Southampton — all  pretty  well.  My  brother 
is  much  pleased  with  Welsboume,  and  wishes  his  own 
house  may  be  as  good  a  one. 


Mrs.  DeUtny  to  Mrs,  Dewes^  at  Welsboume. 

Holly  Mounts  17  Aug.  1745. 

My  dearest  sister's  charming  packet  with  her  own 
letter,  Mrs.  Chapon's,  and  Lady  Sarah's,  came  safe  to  my 
hands  and  gave  me  great  pleasure  and  entertainment.  I 
had  made  a  proposal  to  Sally  which  /  feared  she  would 
not  accept  of,  but  she  is  very  reasonable  in  the  aflair,  and 
I  hope  she  is  in  a  way  of  having  her  son  Hal  takgn  off 
of  her  hands  for  some  years :  she  had  mentioned  being 
anxious  about  his  education,  and  yet  not  being  able  to 
maintain  him  in  any  of  our  universities.  The  Dean  said 
if  his  parents  would  consent  to  his  entering  the  college  of 


*  Lady  North  died  in  Ai)ril,  1745, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  377 

Dublin  as  a  sizer  (which  in  Oxford  and  Cambridge  are 
called  servitors)  he  would  take  care  he  was  treated  with  a 
particular  regard :  they  are  here  upon  a  much  better 
footing  than  in  England,  and  have  all  the  advantages  of 
learning,  and  the  same  chance  for  a  fellowship,  that  those 
have  who  enter  as  gentlemen  commoners,  and  I  offered 
to  maintain  him  till  he  had  some  other  provision.  This 
they  have  consented  to,  if  Mr.  Tracy  does  not  succeed  in  a 
thing  he  has  in  view  for  him,  which  to  be  sure  will  be 
better,  which  is  getting  him  into  the  East  India  Com- 
pany. How  extremely  well  written  Lady  Sarah  Cow- 
per's  letter  is!  she  has  an  uncommon  strength  and  clear- 
ness in  her  manner  of  expressing  herself.  T  am  glad  she 
has  renewed  her  correspondence  with  you ;  if  she  bestows 
on  you  what  she  withdraws  from  me  I  can  forgive  her 
neglect,  though  since  my  being  married  she  has  shown  a 
negligence  that  has  mortified  me  extremely.  But  my 
own  dear  sister's  love  and  goodness  is  permanent,  and 
makes  me  happy  beyond  expression ;  it  doubles  all  my 
joys,  and  lessens  all  my  anxieties. 

K  we  find  on  our  return  to  Dublin  (which  I  hope  in 
God  will  be  on  Wednesday  next !)  that  we  shall  not  be 
able  to  go  soon  to  England,  we  wiU  defer  it  till  spring, 
which  is  a  better  time  than  sailing  in  the  short  cold 
days.  The  Dean  has  been  so  much  perplexed  here  and 
embarrassed  with  his  troublesome  curate,  and  had  such 
a  hurry  of  business  on  his  hands,  that  it  was  impos- 
sible for  him  to  leave  this  place  sooner.  When  we  first 
came  we  were  in  hopes  of  being  in  England  by  this 
time ;  people  who  are  free  and  disengaged  from  any  duty 
may  be  punctual  in  the  execution  of  their  schemes,  but 
otherwise  it  is  impossible. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


378  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  had  on  Tuesday  sixteen  people  here  at  dinner,  on 
Wednesday  ten,  on  Thursday  twenty -two  ;  and  yester- 
day we  dined  abroad  eight  miles  oS,  and  have  only  this 
one  day  to  pack  up ;  and  glad — vert/ glad — shall  I  be  to  see 
again  my  pleasant  dwelling  at  Delville.  The  Dean 
thinks  you  are  in  the  wrong  to  teaze  yourself  about  your 
little  boy*s  not  loving  his  book,  and  you  should  be  cau- 
tious not  to  give  him  a  distaste  to  it  by  pressing  him  too 
much,  for  he  is  young  enough  to  be  indulged  another  year. 

Did  you  ever  read  Ockley's  History  of  the  Saracens  ?' 
It  is  a  most  extraordinary  and  interesting  history.  What 
a  chastisement  did  the  Xtians  bring  upon  themselves 
by  their  neglect  of  their  duty  ! 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mn,  Dewet. 

Delville,  24  Aug.,  1745. 

Again  I  am  returned  to  my  dwelling.  This  place  is 
now  in  perfect  beauty,  and  the  weather  has  been  so  fine 
that  every  hour  of  the  day  I  could  spare  from  business 
and  meals  has  been  spent  in  the  garden,  chiefly  in 
Pearly  Dewes'  bower,  where  one  of  our  tame  robins  wel- 
comed us  home,  and  flew  to  the  Dean's  hand  for  the 
bounty  he  used  to  bestow.  But  I  have  my  hands  so  full 
of  business  at  present  that  I  much  fear  I  shall  not  be 
able  to  make  my  letter  so  long  so  I  wish  to  make  it. 
Just  as  I  came  to  this  place  I  was  interrupted  by  com- 


1  Simon  Ockley,  a  learned  divine  and  eminent  Orientalist^  bom  at  Exeter 
in  1678.  In  1711  he  was  chosen  Professor  of  Arabic  at  Cambridge,  and  died 
in  1720.  He  wrote  a  "Life  of  Maliomet,"  *' Sermons,"  &c.,  and  "The 
History  of  the  Saracens,"  which  is  the  most  unportant  of  his  works. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  379 

pany ;  they  have  hardly  left  me  time  to  fill  this  side, 
but  I  wiU  scribble  hard. 

I  hope  you  had  an  opportunity  of  going  to  the  races ; 
it  is  pleasant  sometimes  to  mix  in  a  gay  crowd;  espe- 
cially if  the  constant  course  of  one's  life  is  of  the  sober 
tranquil  kind;  it  gives  a  little  exercise  4o  the  spirits, 
that  is  not  amiss.  I  was  much  amused  with  your  account 
of  dear  Uttle  Court's  gallantry ;  I  am  very  glad  he  shows 
already  so  much  politeness :  politeness  is  the  polish  of 
virtue,  and  it  ought  not  to  be  neglected.  Is  not  three 
years  old  vert/  young  for  breeches?  I  know  it  is  the 
/(ukion^  but  I  should  imagine  the  spring  a  better  time 
for  changing  his  dress  than  the  latter  end  of  the  year.  I 
have  not  seen  the  Prince's  song  on  the  Princess,  but  if 
it  is  to  express  his  affection  towards  her  I  shall  be  greatly 
offended  with  the  burlesquers. 

I  am  very  glad  you  do  not  eapect  me  till  spring,  for 
as  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  leave  this  place  before 
October,  I  think  it  would  be  safer  and  better  not  to  go 
tiU  April.  I  am  come  home  to  a  hurry  and  have 
found  many  things  to  settle  in  my  household  that  all 
housekeepers  are  sometimes  troubled  with — servants, 
accusations  that  must  be  cleared  and  are  very  teazing, 
though  I  don  t  torment  myself  with  those  affairs ;  but  as 
our  fiamily  is  large,  and  consequently  expensive,  it  requires 
both  my  care  and  attention.  We  left  HoUy  Mount  on 
Sunday.  After  church  at  Down  we  went  to  Mr.  Forde's* 
at  Seaford,  which  was  some  miles  on  our  road  towards 
home ;    there  we  dined  and  lay  that  night.     The  next 


^  Mathew  Forde,  Esq.  of  Seafoide,  in  the  county  of  Down,  married  in  1724 
Christian,  daughter  of  John  Graham  of  Flatten.  Mr.  Fordo,  married,  2ndly, 
Jane,  widow  of  Sir  Timothy  Allen,  and  died  in  1780. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


380  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

morning  set  out  at  seven,  and  lay  at  Newry,  The  next 
day  bad ;  dined  at  a  plac5e  called  Castle  Bellingham,  one 
of  the  prettiest  places  I  have  seen  in  Ireland,  but  the 
weather  so  bad  I  could  not  look  about  me  at  all.  Lay  that 
night  at  Dunleer  at  Mrs.  Hamilton's  ;  Miss  Mary  Forth 
was  gone  to  t<fwn.  Got  home  to  Delville  about  7,  and  was 
charmed  to  see  it  look  so  gay  and  spruce.  Had  the  pleasure 
of  finding  Mrs.  Green  here  ready  to  receive  me,  and  my 
pussy  Tiger  knew  me  and  caresssed  me  mightily.  I  had  a 
letter  yesterday  ifrom  Miss  Granville ;  our  little  cousin 
Foley  has  been,  I  find,  dangerously  ill,  but  is  recovered. 
The  yatchs  are  to  go  this  day  for  my  Lord  Lieut*,  so  in  a 
few  days  I  suppose  we  shall  have  them.  I  design  to  make 
my  first  visit  in  an  Irish  stuff  manteau  and  petticoat,  and 
a  head  the  Dean  has  given  me  of  Lrish  work,  the  pret- 
tiest I  ever  saw  of  the  kind ;  he  has  made  me  also  a 
present  of  a  repeating- watch  and  a  diamond  ring ;  the 
diamond  is  a  briUiant,  but  such  gems  are  only  valuable 
when  they  are  testimonials  of  a  kind  and  affectionate  heart ; 
as  such  to  me  they  are  inestimable. 

You  have  heard  that  the  Bishoprics  are  settled ;  Cork 
to  Clogher,  the  Bishop  of  Dromore  to  Cork,  and  Dr. 
Marley  (a  worthy  and  ingenious  mxm)  to  Dromore.^ 


The  following  letters  appear  to  have  been  written  by  an 
old  retainer  of  Mr.  Granville's,  then  a  waiting-woman  of  Mrs. 
Donellan's,  to  her  friend  at  Calwich. 


1  Dr.  Bobert  Clayton,  Bishop  of  Killala,  and  afterwards  of  Cork  and  Roes, 
translated  to  Clogher  in  1745.  Dr.  Jennot  Brown,  Bishop  of  Dromore, 
translated  to  Cork  and  Ross.    Dr.  Geoiige  Marlay  created  Bishop  of  Diomore. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  381 

Aug*.  26, 1745. 

Indeed,  friend  Martha,  you  are  very  ill-natured  not  to 
let  me  hear  a  word  from  you.  If  my  eyes  had  not  been 
so  weak  that  I  can  scarce  see  the  penn  in  my  hand,  I 
wou  d  have  writ  before  now,  for  I  neither  know  whether 
the  sowe  has  piged,  the  turkeys  hatched,  nor  how  many 
chickens  you  have  rear  d.  Has  the  otters  eate  all  the  fish  ? 
ho^r  many  young  swans  have  you?  I  did  dream  last 
night  that  all  the  ducks  were  flow'd  away ;  is  that  true  ? 
And  tel  me,  I  beg  and  pray,  and  that  soon,  what  is  be- 
come of  master ;  is  he  well?  is  he  buryed  in  mortar  ?  or 
does  he  sit  aU  day  long  humsiruming  at  the  what  do  you 
call  it  ?  May  be  he  is  gone  to  Ireland,  and  then  God 
knows  what  is  become  of  him !  I  long  to  hear ;  I  fear  I 
shall  not  hve  to  see  him  any  more,  for  I  have  had  a  bad 
sumer.  Mrs.  Donnellan  has  been  very  ill,  but,  thank 
God,  is  better.  We  have  had  good  weather ;  it  is  a  little 
mended.  How  has  yours  been  ?  We  have  had  ten  days 
fine,  which  has  got  the  corn  in  about  London.  We  have 
had  very  great  rejoicing  for  the  taking  of  Lewisburgh,' 
but  you  will  see  all  that  news  in  the  newspapers,  and  I 
am  too  blind  to  write  any  more  but  to  give  my  love  to 
everybody  that  I  know  at  Calwich ;  and  I  hope  my  good 
old  friend  Martha  will  beUeve 

That  I  am  most  sincerely 
.  Her  friend  and  well  wisher, 

Mrs.  Anne  sends  her  love.  A.  G. 

August  y«  26th. 


The  town  and  fortress  of  Louisbourg  surrendered  to  the  English  on  the 
16th  June,  1745,  after  a  siege  of  forty-nine  days. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


382  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

A,  O.  at  Fulhamy  to  her  friend  Martha  at  Ccdwich, 

Angust. 

Indeed,  my  good  firiend  Martha,  it  has  been  a  deadly 
while  I  have  taken  to  answer  your  kind  letter,  but  what 
can  a  body  doe  with  one  eye,  and  that  a  very  bad  one. 
More  over,  my  hand  shakes  like  any  aspen  leafe,  and  I 
have  not  been  well  all  sumer.  I  have  a  pain  in  my 
shoulder  on  one  side,  and  a  pain  in  my  elbow  on  the 
other;  much  pain  and  very  lame  of  my  knees,  and 
ankcles ;  when  I  walk,  it  is  like  an  elephant,  without 
bending  a  joint.  0  how  I  grunt  and  groan  night  and 
day !  I  will  take  my  oath  I  won  d  rather  be  an  otter 
than  an  old  woman  ;  but  you  do  not  know  what  it  is  to 
be  old !  You  are  capering  about  in  your  fine  cardinals^ 
and  things,  like  a  girl  of  twenty.  I  suppose  you  are 
about  geting  a  young  husband.  I  was  told  so,  and 
much  good  may  it  doe  you,  if  he  gives  you  a  hearty 
thrashing  now  and  then.  I  wish  you  wou  d  teU  me  who 
he  is ;  write  me  word  what  his  name  is.  But  I  hope 
this  affair  do  not  make  you  forget  the  dear  piggs,  and 
turkeys,  and  geese,  and  ducks ;  send  me  word  if  they  be 
in  good  heart  and  thriving.  And  what  is  master  doing  ? 
Is  he  smothered  amongs  the  lime  and  bricks  ?  or  has  he 
got  his  work  done,  and  laid  himself  down  upon  the 
gazy.  hill,  to  take  breath  a  little?  This  furious  hott 
weather — I  never  felt  such  in  my  life.  Tel  him,  that  is, 
if  he  have  out  lived  it,  that  I  have  thought  forty  times 
to  come  to  Calwich,  and  live  in  the  river  amongst  the 
otters,  and  lye  titely  with  them  and  try  whether  they  or  I 
should  eate  the  most  carps ;  and  I  believe  I  should  have 
come,  if  a  thought  had  not  changed  in  my  head,  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  383 

there  might  come  at  once  a  hundred  about  me,  and  eate 
me  up,  in  stead  of  a  perch.  You  know  I  am  a  little 
slimikin  thing,  not  unlike  a  perch  or  an  eel,  both  which 
they  like,  and  might  easily  misstake  and  pick  my  bones 
in  a  moment;  so  I  chous  to  stay  and  be  broyled  at 
Fulham.  But  I  have  been  so  taken  up  with  your 
intended  marriage,  and  my  owne  history,  that  I  have 
not  said  a  word  of  Mrs.  Donnellan,  who  is  nearer  my 
heart  then  any  other  thing,  even  the  King,  his  owne 
self  I  do  not  love  half  so  well  1  Aske  master  if  that  be 
not  saying  a  great  deal,  and  tell  him,  as  he  remembers 
he  left  her  much  out  of  order  in  London,  that  she 
grew  worse  every  day  till  we  came  to  Fulham.  At 
that  lime  she  was  scarce  able  to  get  on  horse  back ; 
however,  she  did,  and  rid  every  day,  with  which  she 
mended  considerably  til  the  violent  hott  wether  came, 
which  made  it  impos^ble  for  any  body  to  ride,  the  heat 
and  the  dust  was  so  powerfull.  She  has  not  been  on 
horse  back  near  a  month,  and  is  not  so  well ;  very  rest- 
less nights,  and  her  cough  bad.  Thank  God,  yesterday 
the  weather  changed,  and  brought  us  some  rain,  not 
before  it  was  wanted,  for  this  part  of  the  world  was  quite 
burned  up ;  no  grass  to  be  seen,  but  the  com  extreme 
fine,  and  ready  to  reap.  If  it  please  God  to  send  us  a 
good  harvest  we  shall  have  great  plenty  of  that.  How 
has  the  season  been  with  you  ?  Have  you  any  fruit  ? 
We  have  not  as  much  as  curans  fitt  to  make  a  little 
wine  with.  Well,  I  wish  you  wou'd  let  me  know  what 
master  is  doing !  Has  he  finished  his  house,  done  all  he 
has  to  doe,  and  got  rid  of  his  workmen?  Surely,  I 
thought,  he  wou'd  have  been  in  London  before  now,  and 
have  got  a  new  gown  on  purpose,  thinking  to  see  all  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


384  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

prime  youth  of  Staffordshire  reviewed  in  Hyed  Park, 
with  Colonel  Grahvile  at  the  head  of  them— ^such  a  day! 
So  I  went;  but  when  I  found  it  was  the  Norfolk 
Militia,  how  was  I  mortifyed,  though  they  were  fine 
men,  and  very  fine  officers !  But  what  did  I  care  for 
them?  I  wanted  to  liave  seen  master!  and  now  they 
tell  me  your  militia  are  not  yet  raised.  Good  luck ! 
good  luck !  What  is  it  you  mean,  to  be  so  doul  ?  I 
realy  believe  in  my  heart  master  do  not  care  if  the 
French  coms  and  eate  us  all  up  alive.  Is  there  not  fiat 
boats — ^I  know  not  how  many  thousands — ^ready  to  come 
every  day  ?  and  when  they  once  set  out  they  will  be 
with  us  as  quick  as  a  swaUow  can  fly^  almost;  and 
when  they  land  we  have  no  body  to  fight  them,  because 
you  will  not  rais  your  militia.  For  my  part  I  dare  not 
go  to  the  Thames,  for  fear  they  shou'd  be  coming ;  and 
if  I  see  one  of  our  owne  boats  leaden  with  carrots,  I  am 
ready  to  drop  down,  thinking  it  one  of  the  French.  I 
have  not  one  word  of  news,  but  that  it  is  grown  cooler 
to  my  great  joye.  Mrs,  Donnellan  is  got  on  horse  back 
again,  and  I  hope  it  will  doe  her  good.  She  sends 
master  her  most  kind  compliments,  and  I  hope  he  will 
accept  of  a  thousand  sincere  good  wishes  of  mine,  which 
coms  to  him  heartily.  Mrs.  Donnellan  remembers  you 
kindly,  and  I  hope  dear  Martha  will  believe  that 
I  am,  her  true  old  friend, 

A.  Gt. 
My   service  to^  Mr.  Nathan,  tho'  I  never  saw  him 
when  he  was  in  town.    Mrs.    Anne  sends  her  compli- 
ments to  you  and  him. 

If  the  writer  of  this  letter  had  lived  in  these  days  (1860)  she 
would  have  been  better  satisfied  with  the  reviews  in  Hyde  Park,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  385 

have  believed  she  might  have  approached  the  Thames  without 
fear  of  being  carried  off  in  "  the  flat-bottomed  boats  "  of  the  French ! 
Besides  the  amusement  afforded  by  the  quaintness  of  these 
epistles,  there  is  an  evident  sincerity  and  a  devotedness  towards 
her  old  "  Master^''  which  is  very  pleasing,  and  does  infinite  credit 
to  the  writer. 


Mrs,  DeUmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes^  cU  WeUhowme, 

Delville,  7  Sept.   1745. 

My  dear  sister's  letters  of  the  20th  and  24th  of  August 
came  to  me  together.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  hearing  from 
Gloucester  that  my  mother  got  safe  there  and  that  Miss 
Nanny  Viney  accompanied  little  John  home.  I  have  got 
a  picture  of  you  hung  up  in  my  bedchamber  of  Mrs. 
Irwens*s  doing,  by  that  she  begun  at  Bath  and  her 
memory  together ;  it  smiles  upon  me  and  gives  me  a  sort 
of  melancholy  gladness,  for  it  really  is  like  you. 

I  am  glad  you  and  Sir  Anthony^  correspond ;  when  Mr. 
Dewes  is  in  London  let  him  visit  him  as  often  as  he  can. 
So  near  a  relation  ought  not  be  neglected,  especially  now 
he  is  a  lonely  man  and  growing  in  years.  Now  it  is  time 
for  me  to  say  something  of  that  which  is  near  both  our 
hearts — our  meeting.  The  insurrection  in  Scotland  has 
made  it  at  this  time  unsafe  to  cross  the  seas,  so  that  till  that 
commotion  is  stilled  it  would  be  imprudent  to  venture ; 
and  my  brother  seems  to  think  it  would  be  rather  prudent 
on  other  accounts  to  defer  our  voyage  till  spring. 

I  have  as  yet  only  seen  my  Lady  Chesterfield  on  her 
public  days :  I  went  to  her  on  Tuesday  morning.  She 
asked  to  see  me  soon  again,  so  I  went  on  Friday  morning 
with  the  Dean,  who  could  not  go  sooner.     Her  days 

1  Sir  Antony  Westcomb. 
VOL.  II.  2  c 


Digitized  by 


Google 


386  LIFE  AND  CJORRESPONDENCE 

are  Tuesdays  and  Fridays  mornings  for  company ;  at  night 
on  those  days  are  the  drawing-rooms,  and  every  Friday  a 
ball.  There  has  not  been  yet  a  night  drawing-room,  so  I 
have  not  been  presented  to  his  Excellency ;  but  on  Tuesday 
next  I  shall  make  my  first  appearance  in  an  Irish  staff 
mantua  and  petticoat.  Lord  Chesterfield  said  he  was 
'*  very  glad  to  have  an  opportunity  of  being  personally 
acquainted  with  the  Dean,  of  whom  he  had  heard  and 
read  with  so  much  advantage/' 

I  have  this  week  been  very  busy  at  work  to  finish  my 
branch^  for  my  portico  in  my  garden,  but  it  is  not  yet  ac- 
complished. Domestic  affairs  must  interpose  for  some 
time  and  company.  Coll.  Brown  is  in  Ireland,  and  came  to 
see  me ;  but  I  was  abroad,  and  the  Dean  is  gone  to  ask  him 
to  dine  here.  My  house  is  now  furnished  very  completely. 
Is  it  not  strange,  my  dear  sister,  that  you  and  I  should 
dwell  in  houses  that  neither  of  tis  have  seen — that  I  should 
be  unacqitairUed  with  your  home  and  you  tmth  mine  ?  but  I 
hope  in  God  this  will  not  last  long. 


Ladff  Sarah  Cowper  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Sept.  10th,  1745.   Haynca  HilL 

Tour  letter,  my  dear  Mrs.  Dewes,  gave  me  a  great  deal 
of  pleasure.  I  was  at  first  a  little  startled  by  what  you 
say  of  your  illness,  but  a  second  reading  makes  me  suppose 
it  of  a  sort  which  it  is  to  do  good  to  the  world,  and  I 
hope  no  harm  to  yourself,  and  if  this  is  the  case,  it  is 
not  right  to  be  sorry  for  it.  My  sister  and  I  are  both 
much  obliged  to  you  for  the  invitation  and  encourage- 


^  For  a  chandelier  made  of  shells. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  387 

ment  you  give  us  to  try  the  medicinal  waters  in  your 
neighbourhood.  I  should  like  the  journey  so  well  for 
one  reason,  that  I  could  willingly  undertake  it  for  that 
alone,  if  other  considerations  did  not  make  it  an  imprac- 
ticable scheme:  at  present  all  parties  of  pleasure  are 
threatened  to  be  disturbed  by  rackets  at  home.  I  won't 
repeat  what  I  hear  of  them,  you  may  if  you  please  read  it 
in  the  letter  I  inclose,  and  must  beg  you  to  send  to  Mrs. 
Delany,  for  I  don't  know  how  to  direct  to  her,  and  have 
only  the  frank  this  goes  in. 

I  wish  I  could  be  as  easy  and  unconcerned  as  a  few 
happy  people,  that  either  seeing  better  or  worse  than  the 
rest  of  the  world  treat  the  invasion  and  rebellion  as  a 
phantom  and  an  imposition.  Indeed  the  attempt  seemed 
80  wild  and  rash*  that  at  first  I  was  one  of  the  unbelievers, 
and  while  some  denied  positively  that  the  Pretender's 
son  was  in  Scotland,  there  seemed  so  little  reason  for  his 
going  there  almost  alone,  and  without  any  foreign  force 
at  hand  to  assist  him,  that  I  thought  it  a  false  alarm ;  but 
now  that  they  give  up  the  point  so  far  as  to  confess  he  is 
there^  I  can  no  longer  agree  with  them  in  being  easy.  If 
it  is  true  that  the  French  design  only  to  draw  our  troops 
from  Flanders,  and  facilitate  their  conquests  abroad,  and 
that  the  kingdom  of  England,  and  the  present  govern- 
ment may  however  be  safe,  I  am  sure  at  least  that  the 
unhappy  wretches  already  drawn  into  rebellion,  and  more 
that  may  follow  their  example,  must  be  sufferers.  The 
distress  must  fall  somewhere,  and  all  humane  people  will 
have  some  share  in  it. 

Tou  ask  me  if  there  is  any  certain  account  of  Ingoldsby. 
I  hear  he  has  been  tried  by  a  court  martial,  acquitted 
of  cowardice,  but  found  guilty  of  disobeying  orders,  and 

2c2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


388  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

suspended  during  the  general's  pleasure ;  that  this  mild 
sentence  was  occasioned  by  the  Duke's  generous  compas- 
sion for  him,  from  regard  to  former  services,  and  to  his 
own  mtreaties  for  mercy,  which  he  begged  in  the  most 
abject  manner.  He  made  no  defence,  unless  it  can  be 
called  one  that  he  denied  having  seen  Lord  Bury^  who 
carried  him  two  messages,  and  when  Lord  Bury  reminded 
him  of  the  place  and  other  circumstances,  he  owned  the 
whole.  Some  of  his  friends  say  he  has  an  illness,  which  is 
indeed  a  sufficient  excuse  for  all  the  errors  a  man  can  be 
guilty  of,  and  it  is  pity  it  was  not  sooner  known ;  but  I 
think  the  insinuation  in  the  paper  he  published,  by  which 
he  plainly  endeavours  to  fling  the  blame  upon  the  Duke, 
is  such  an  instance  of  ingratitude  as  is  hardly  pardonable, 
if  the  account  is  true ;  I  can  only  'say  for  it,  that 
what  I  write  you,  came  from  an  officer  who  was  pre- 
sent, and  adds  that  he  will  be  permitted  to  sell  his  com- 
mission. 

To  the  wishes  I  have  made  Mrs.  Delany,  one  circum- 
stance was  wanting,  that  the  love,  peace,  and  content 
you  say  attend  you,  may  have  no  interruption,  and  that 
Welsboum  may  be  the  place  where  you  may  enjoy 
those  blessings  with  each  other !  I  am  my  dear  Mrs. 
Dewes, 

Your  very  affectionate  and  obliged 
humble  servant, 

S.  COWPER. 


»  George  Keppel  (Lord  Bury),  afterwards  3rd  Earl  of  Albemarle,  was  an 
aide-de-camp  to  William  Duke  of  Cumberland  at  the  battle  of  Fontenoy,  and 
with  him  at  Culloden  in  the  following  year,  and  brought  to  London  the  de- 
spatches announcing  the  latter  victory.  He  commanded  in  chief  at  the  reduc- 
tion of  the  Havannah. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  389 


Mrs.  Dewes  to  Lady  Sarah  Cowper. 

Welsboume,  17  Sept.  1745. 

A  thousand  thanks  to  my  dearest  Lady  Sarah  Cowper 
for  letting  me  see  and  convey  to  my  sister  the  great 
delight  of  your  letter,  and  such  letters  are  nowhere  to 
be  met  with;  The  enclosed  I  received  this  post,  and 
take  the  liberty  of  sending  it  to  your  Ladyship  to  shew 
some  of  my  sister's  thoughts  and  employments.  I  grieve 
I  may  not  hope  to  see  you  and  Lady  Anne ;  I  flatter 
myself  she  is  pretty  well,  as  you  did  not  mention  her  in 
your  last  letter. 

The  account  you  are  so  good  to  send  of  the  public 
danger  and  distress  gives  me  great  pain,  for  though  I  hope 
the  rebellion  in  Scotland  will  soon  be  stopped,  yet  the 
misery  that  must  be  the  consequence  to  some  families  is 
mournful  to  reflect  upon.  I  have  no  intelligence  so  good 
or  so  particular  as  your  Ladyship's,  therefore  shall  be 
infinitely  obliged  by  hearing  as  often  as  writing  is  not 
disagreeable  to  you,  though  1  have  a  more  tender  concern 
in  that  request,  and  must  add  with  Jemima, 

"  But  of  yourself  speak  much, 
Speak  very  much,  and  still  speak  on." 

Your  tenderness  will  be  alarmed  at  my  mourning 
paper,  and  I  mention  the  cause  of  it  the  last,  because  the 
subject  of  it  truly  affects  me  from  the  sorrow  poor  Mr. 
Dewes  is  in  for  the  death  of  his  mother.  She  was  a  very 
good  woman,  and  an  extremely  kind  parent.  Mr.  Dewes 
has  rewarded  her  care  with  perfect  duty  and  affection ; 
and  had  the  satisfaction  of  receiving  her  last  breath  in 
blessings  to  himself  and  his  children.    Her  pious  prayers 


Digitized  by 


Google 


390  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  hope  will  .be  answered ;  but  they  filled  him  with  a 
melancholy  which  I  fear  will  not  soon  be  removed,  though 
reason  and  good  temper  govern  all  his  actions.  He  is  at 
present  with  his  brother,  where  the  good  old  lady  lived 
and  died  ;  and  that  son  has  the  greatest  loss,  for  she  was 
both  his  nurse  and  housekeeper,  and  he  is  an  infirm  old 
bachelor.  These  subjects  and  misfortunes  fill  the  mind 
with  gloom  and  heaviness,  and  would  make  life  insup- 
portable, were  it  not  for  the  hopes  of  passing  through  it  to  a 
more  happy  place,  where  all  our  sighing  and  tears  shall 
be  done  away,  and  where  friends  meet  to  part  no  more. 
But,  alas !  I  have  so  many  attachments  to  this  world,  and 
my  tender  chains  increasing  every  day  in  my  little  boys, 
that  I  must  endeavour  to  support  the  earthly  cares  I  am 
encompassed  with,  and  wait  with  patience  a  dismission 
from  them.  As  I  cannot  turn  my  pen  to  any  pleasing 
subject,  it  would  be  cruel  to  add  more  than  that,  I  am, 
in  all  events  and  circumstances,  my  dear  Lady  Sarah 
Cowper's 

Most  obliged  and  most  obedient 
humble  servant, 

A.  Dewes. 

My  best  respects  attend  Lady  Anne  Coliton.     I  hope 
Mr.  Poyntz  and  aU  his  family  are  well. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  3  Oct,  1745. 

As  I  thought  my  dearest  sister  might  have  some  alarm 
for  her  friends  on  this  side  of  the  water  during  our  wars 
and  rumours  of  wars,  I  have  written  to  you  three  posts  to- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANT.  391 

gether,  that  you  might  know  we  are  very  quiet,  and  I  hope 
likely  to  continue  so,  if  the  good  news  that  came  express 
yesterday  to  our  Lord-Lieut^  be  true,  of  the  rebels  defeat 
in  Scotland.  L*eland  has  been  formerly  a  place  of  great 
disturbance  and  concision  on  these  occasions,  but  not  for 
many  years ;  people  in  general  are  very  well  aflfected  to- 
wards the  present  Government,  and  even  the  papists  who 
are  not  in  number  what  they  were,  seem  to  know  their 
happiness  in  a  quiet  possession  of  what  they  have,  so  that 
had  England  been  so  unhappy  as  to  have  struggled  under 
a  civil  war,  we  should  have  been  the  quietest  part  of  his 
Majesty's  dominions.  At  present  the  storm  seems  to  be 
abated,  and  I  hope  in  God,  the  next  news  we  have  from 
England  will  be  of  its  being  entirely  quelled.  When  I 
consider  how  great  a  calamity  a  civil  war  is,  we  cannot 
be  too  thankftil  that  a  timely  stop  is  put  to  it.  Many 
lives  already  have  been  sacrificed  to  it;  but  as  these 
sort  of  distresses  cannot  subside  at  once,  I  think  now 
I  cannot  hope  to  see  you  till  spring  and  calm  weather 
and  times  invite  me  over,  so  I  must  sit  'down  patiently 
to  bear  what  is  not  in  my  power  to  order  otherwise. 

I  expect  a  visit  this  morning  from  Lady  Chesterfield ; 
she  said  she  would  come  the  first  fine  day.  My  shell  lustre 
I  wrote  you  word  I  was  about,  was  finished  ten  days  ago 
and  everybody  liked  it.  'Twas  a  new  whim  and  shows 
the  shells  to  great  advantage.  I  had  fixed  it  up  in  my  por- 
tico, which  is  dedicated  to  the  Duchess  of  Portland ;  but  the 
damp  weather  made  the  cement  give  and  I  have  been  ob- 
liged to  bring  it  into  the  house,  and  it  now  hangs  in  my 
work-room  and  shows  to  more  advantage.  My  present 
work  is  finishing  some  drawings  for  my  book,  and  as  soon 
as  Lady  Chesterfield  has  made  her  visit  I  shall  set  about 


Digitized  by 


Google 


392  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

painting  again,  but  I  don't  care  for  interruptions  when 
I  am  at  that  employment ;  my  first  work  will  be  to  give 
my  mother's  picture  one  more  painting  over — ^I  don't  like 
it  yet. 

I  believe  I  wrote  you  word  Mrs.  Green  was  in  the 
house  with  me ;  her  company  is  really  what  I  like,  and 
it  is  a  great  satisfaction  to  me  to  show  her  all  the  kind- 
ness that  lies  in  my  power ;  as  saving  a  little  money  now 
on  first  setting  out  may  make  their  circumstances  easy 
for  the  rest  of  their  lives. 


Mi's.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  DetvtF. 

Delville,  8  Oct.  1745. 

As  your  letter  was  dated  on  the  day  of  the  engagement 
in  Scotland  I  don't  wonder  you  mention  so  calmly  the 
affairs  in  agitation,  but  before  this  you  have  had  various 
accounts.  My  mind  is  now  much  better  satisfied,  for  if 
it  please  God  to  give  us  success  we  are  now  very  well 
prepared  for  the  rebels,  the  Dutch  troops  and  our  own 
being  landed  and  the  Duke  by  this  I  suppose  returned 
home.  We  have  reason  to  fear  a  chastisement,  as  I  believe 
there  never  was  more  impiety  in  the  world  than  at  this 
time  ;  but  I  hope  there  may  be  "  ten  righteous  menfoutul " 
to  save  the  city,  and  that  our  next  accounts  from  Eng- 
land and  the  North  will  bring  us  the  comfortable  news  of 
all  danger  being  over.  There  has  been  such  a  run  on  one 
of  our  bankers  that  he  has  been  obhged  to  shut  up,  but 
they  say  in  the  end  nobody  will  lose  by  it :  we  have 
luckily  no  concerns  there,  but  tenants  won't  pay,  and  it  is 
made  at  least  a  pretence  for  not  paying  money. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  393 

I  don't  think  it  likely  Lord  North  should  marry  Lady 
"W. ;  but  don't  wonder  where  there  is  such  an  intimacy, 
there  should  be  such  a  report.  If  he  does  marry  again  (as 
I  think  it  very  likely  he  should),  I  don't  know  any  one 
so  fitted  to  make  him  and  his  family  happy  as  our  Violet. 
Her  discretion  and  goodness  of  temper  would  make  her 
a  jewel  in  a  family  so  mixed  as  they  are.  He  knows  her 
very  well,  and  all  her  good  qualities  and  has  frequently 
mentioned  her  to  me  with  great  esteem,  but  it  is  to  be 
feared  he  may  be  taken  by  some  blooming  thing  that 
will  marry  him  for  his  fortune  and  to  make  a  sfiow^  without 
considering  how  truly  valuable  he  is  for  his  religious, 
virtuous  dispositions.  Donellan  says  in  her  last  letter 
to  me  that  our  young  cousin  and  her  great  friend  at 
Court  have  quarrelled  ;  that  it  is  an  ugly  story  and  much 
talked  of;  'tis  thought  jealousy  is  the  foundation,  but 
gives  me  no  hint  who  the  jealousy  is  about.  If  you  know 
anything  give  me  some  account.  .Delville  salutes  Wels 
bourne  most  afFectionatly. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  15  Oct.,  1745. 

We  are  very  impatient  to  know  what  is  doing  in  the 
North,  I  thank  God  here  we  are  very  quiet,  and  hope 
the  packets  when  they  come  wiD  bring  us  the  comfortable 
news  of  the  rebels  being  dispersed;  but  I  dread  our 
being  fiirther  engaged  in  a  civil  war,  and  think  our  last 
accounts  were  no  way  satisfactory.  Various  are  the  re- 
ports ;  the  last  was  that  Edinburgh  was  burnt  to  ashes ! 

Last  Friday  was  the  King's  Coronation.  I  went  to  the 
Castle  morning  and  night.   There  was  a  ball,  but  no  good 


Digitized  by 


Google 


394  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

dancing ;  and  I  hope /or  our  credit  Mrs.  Portescue  will  come 
and  grace  the  balls.  Mrs.  Chenevix,  the  Bishop  of  Kil- 
laloe's*  wife,  and  I  have  agreed  to  go  to  the  Birthday  in 
Irish  staffs.  Lady  Gxandison*  and  Lady  Betty  Mason 
are  come  to  Dublin,  which  I  am  very  glad  of ;  it  is  a 
great  pleasure  to  meet  with'  an  old  acquaintance.  Lady 
Grandison  is  an  agreeable  woman  and  was  always  very 
obliging  to  me.  Next  Friday  I  go  to  Court  with  Miss 
McDermots ;  Lord  and  Lady  Chesterfield  have  heard  their 
story,  and  are  prepared  to  receive  them  with  distinction, 
which  indeed  they  very  well  deserve.  I  have  had  a  good 
deal  of  Mrs.  Clayton  s  company,  she  is  in  good  spirits  ; 
their  house  is  very  magnificent,  but  more  for  show  than 
comfortable  living.  I  would  not  give  my  sweet  Delville 
for  it,  no,  nor  for  any  palace  I  ever  yet  sasuo. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Delville,  22  Oct.,  1745. 

Besides  the  desire  I  have  of  hearing  from  my  particular 
friends,  it  is  impossible  at  this  time  not  to  wish  to  hear 
how  public  affairs  go  on.  All  thmgs  here  continue 
very  easy  and  quiet,  the  militia  perform  duty  every  day, 
and  we  are  in  a  posture  of  defence  to  repulse  the  enemy 


^  Richard  Chenevix,  appointed  Bishop  of  Eillaloe  in  1746,  translated  to 
Waterford  the  same  year. 

*  The  Honorable  Frances  Carey,  daughter  of  Anthony  Viscount  Falkland, 
married  John  Villiers,  5th  Viscount  Grandison  and  Ist  Earl.  Lady  Elizabeth 
Villiers,  their  eldest  daughter  married,  in  1739,  Aland  John  Mason,  Esq., 
M.P.  for  Waterford ;  and  2ndly,  General  Charles  Montagu  Halifax.  Lady 
Elizabeth  Mason  was  created  Viscountess  Grandison,  10  April,  1746,  and  on 
the  death  of  her  father,  14  May,  1766,  was  advanced  to  the  rank  of  Countess 
Grandison. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  395 

if  he  is  daring  enough  to  attack  us.  We  are  in  no 
danger  unless  things  grow  worse  in  England,  and  I  own 
I  am  under  no  apprehension  that  a  ra^ed,  ill-disciplined, 
and  irregular  body  of  men,  though  pretty  numerous,  should 
stand  long  against  our  forces  when  they  have  once  met ; 
unless  Providence  designs  to  chastise  us  for  our  impiety, 
which,  indeed,  is  to  be  feared.  To  drive  from  my 
thoughts  xmavailing  fears,  and  divert  my  mind  from 
thinking  too  much  of  my  disappointment  this  year  in 
not  going  to  England,  I  employ  every  hour  as  much  as 
possible.  I  have  been  sorting  my  mosses  and  ores,  and 
am  going  to  new  arrange  my  shells,  and  to  cover  two  large 
vases  for  my  garden:  my  painting  has  lain  dormant 
some  time,  having  been  in  expectation  of  their  excel- 
lencies every  morning ;  and  I  did  not  'care  to  be  found 
in  a  litter ;  and  Shakespear  and  the  harpsichord  fill  up  the 
evenings.  These  are  my  dramSy  and  such  as  refresh  without 
intoxicating ;  but  I  beheve  my  spirits  would  flag  even  with 
these  amusements,  did  they  not  give  so  much  pleasure  to 
D.D. ;  his  approving  of  my  works,  and  encoxiraging  me  to 
go  on,  keep  up  my  relish  to  them,  and  make  them  more 
delightftil  to  me  than  assemblies,  plays,  or  even  an  opera 
wordd  be  without  he  shared  them  with  me.  Eager  as  I 
am  in  all  my  pursuits  I  am  easily  checked^  and  the  least 
disapprobation  or  snap,  from  the  person  I  wish  to  oblige, 
in  thought,  word,  or  deed,  would  soon  give  me  a  distaste 
to  what  was  delightful  to  me  before  !  I  hope  this  does 
not  proceed  from  pride,  but  from  a  disposition  in  my 
heart  that  will  not  suffer  me  to  enjoy  any  pleasure  that  I 
cannot  communicate. 

Yesterday  we  were  honoured  with  a  visit  from  our 
Viceroy     and    Queen;    they    sent    over    eai'ly    in    the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


396  LIFE  AND  COURESPONDEXCE 

morning  to  know  if  we  were  disengaged,  as  they  would 
breakfast.  To  work  went  all  my  maids,  stripping  covers 
off  the  chairs/  sweeping,  dusting,  &c.,  and  by  eleven 
my  house  was  as  spruce  as  a  cabinet  of  curiosities,  and 
well  bestowed  on  their  Excellencies,  who  commended  and 
admired,  and  were  as  polite  as  possible.  They  came  soon 
after  eleven  in  their  travelling  coach,  with  only  two 
footmen ;  Mr.  Bristol  (Dash's  uncle)  and  Mrs.  Chene- 
vix^  in  the  coach  with  them.  They  were  first  carried  into 
the  drawing-room,  examined  every  room  in  my  apart- 
ments above,  delighted  with  the  situation,  liked  the 
furniture,  but  were  impatient  to  see  my  own  works; 
upon  which  the  Dean  conducted  them  into  the  Minerva, 
where  I  had  two  tables  covered  with  all  sorts  of  break- 
fast. When  breakfast  was  over  they  made  me  play  on 
the  harpsichord,  which  I  did  with  a  very  ill  grace.  When 
that  was  done  we  went  into  the  garden  and  walked 
over  every  inch  of  it ;  they  seemed  much  surprised  with 
the  variety  they  found  there,  and  could  not  have  said 
more  civil  things  had  it  been  my  Lord  Cobliam's 
Stowe !  They  staid  till  near  two,  and  my  Lord  Lieut*  and 
the  Dean  had  a  great  deal  of  conversation,  which  I 
believe  was  mutually  agreeable;  we  are  going  this 
morning  to  Court  to  return  thanks  for  the  honour  they 
did  us,  and  the  hour  calls  upon  me  to  dress. 

To  day  we  dine  at  the  Bishop  of  Clogher  s,  to  morrow 
at  Lord  Grandison's.  Last  Friday  I  went  to  Court  with 
Miss  Dermot,  and  dined  with  Mrs.  Hamilton. 


^  These  **  cJiairs  **  were  doubtless  her  own  marveUous  chenille  embroidery  of 
flowers  from  nature. 

*  Mrs.  Chcnevix,  wife  of  the  Bishop  of  Killaloe,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Watcr- 
foid. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  397 

Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,  16th  'Nov.,  1745. 

I  have  received  two  letters  from  my  dearest  sister,  with 
an  account  of  Mr.  Dewes's  illness;  your  last  dated  P* 
Nov',  by  which  I  find  I  have  lost  one  I  should  have  had 
between  these  two.  What  wretched  beings  should  we  be 
without  that  consoler — Hope !  That  cheering  ray  darts 
through  the  darkest  cloud,  and  I  have  felt  its  kind  in- 
fluence so  often  that  I  reverence  it  like  a  guardian  angel, 
and  had  I  been  a  heathen  I  should  certainly  have  made  it 
my  deity  and  worshipped  at  its  shrine.  'Tis  that  has  sup- 
ported me  under  the  great  disappointment  I  have  had  of  not 
seeing  my  dear  friends  in  England  this  winter,  that  carries 
me  joyfully  on  to  the  spring  and  to  the  happy  time  so  much 
wished  for  by  us  both.  I  could  not  help  apprehending 
that  your  care  and  concern  for  Mr.  Dewes  would  hurt 
your  spirits.  Nothing  is  more  affecting  than  to  see  the 
person  one  loves  dejected.  The  nature  of  his  disorder  I 
am  afraid  has  made  him  so ;  though  I  am  sure  his  regard 
for  you  at  all  times,  but  especially  now,  will  make  him 
exert  himself  to  the  utmost  of  his  power,  and  ought  to 
make  him  consent  to  have  the  best  advice  for  his  health, 
which  is  of  so  much  consequence  to  your  happiness. 
I  say  nothing  of  the  rebels,  for  we  are  here  much  in  the 
dark  about  them ;  but  it  is  impossible  not  to  be  terrified 
till  we  hear  of  their  total  defeat. 

Pray  have  you  ever  read  the  four  sermons  by  Swift  that 
were  published  last  year  ?  ^  They  are  very  fine  and  worth 

*  According  to  Dr.  Johnson,  Deau  Swift  gave  up  mental  labour  in  1736, 
though  some  works  previously  written  were  subsequently  published.  In  1741, 
he  was  placed  under  legal  guardians  and  personal  restraint ;  and  after  years  of 
raving,  alternating  with  speechless  fatuity,  he  died  in  October,  1745. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


398  LIFE  AND  rX)RRESPONDENCE 

the  reading.  Have  your  read  Bishop  Sherlock's  sermon 
on  the  rebellion?  It  is  charming.  There  is  just  published 
a  humorous  pamphlet  of  Swift's,  I  think  called  "  Advice 
to  Servants ;"  it  is  said  to  be  below  his  genius,  but  co- 
mical— I  have  not  yet  seen  it.  Surely  I  wrote  you  word 
a  month  ago  of  his  death.  ^  It  was  a  happy  release  to 
him  (I  hope),  for  he  was  reduced  to  such  a  miserable 
state  of  idiotism  that  he  was  a  shocking  object ;  though 
in  his  person  a  very  venerable  figure,  with  long  silver  hair 
and  a  comely  countenance,  for  being  grown  fat  the  hard 
lines,  which  gave  him  a  harsh  look  before,  were  filled  up. 

I  have  had  a  letter  firom  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  and 
am  sorry  to  find  her  spirits  are  very  low. 

Sir  Thomas  Robinson  is  at  Barbadoes  and  Harry 
Chapon  going  to  Jamaica. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

Delville,  23rd  Nov.,  1745. 

The  arrival  of  the  packets  hath  in  some  measure  re- 
lieved my  anxiety  on  Mr.  Dewes'  account.  I  hope  by  this 
time  he  is  perfectly  well,  and  that  you  are  on  the  wing 
for  Gloucester.  The  sooner  you  are  settled  there  the 
better,  for  every  week  adds  depth  to  the  roads. 

I  don't  wonder  you  should  leave  your  boys  with 
regret,  but  one  of  them  at  such  a  time  will  be  as  much 
as  your  spirits  will  well  bear.  Court  is  of  an  age 
not  to  be  left  with  servants,  besides  his  pretty  prattle 
will  be  a  vast  entertainment  to  you  and  a  delight  to  my 
mother.  Last  Sunday,  at  eleven  o'clock  in  the  morning, 
Mrs.  Greene  was  brought  to  bed  of  a  plump  little  boy ; — it 
was  very  lucky  the  nurse-keeper  was  in  the  house. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  399 

Yesterday  I  went  both  morning  and  evening  to  the 
Castle,  with  Mrs.  Marley.^  There  was  a  full  Court.  Lord 
and  Lady  Chesterfield  dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Cloghers 
last  Wednesday.  Nobody  lives  with  more  state  and 
show  than  tliey  do :  fine  house,  fine  furniture,  fine  clothes, 
and  every  fine  thing;  but  I  would  not  change  my 
estate  with  them,  for  they  are  so  much  engaged  in  the 
hurry  and  grandeur  of  the  world,  that  they  have  not  now 
any  time  to  enjoy  the  more  rational  pleasures  of  friend- 
ship and  conversation.  *  Poor  Miss  Mary  Forth  has  been 
extremely  ill  but  her  disorder  not  known ;  I  am  much  con- 
cerned for  her ;  she  is  a  most  sensible  and  valuable  crea- 
ture, and  has  been  greatly  hurt  by  her  attendance  on  my 
friend  Mrs.  Hamilton,  and  seeing  all  her  troubles  and  sick- 
ness, I  believe  has  been  the  principal  cause  of  her  own 
present  disorders. 

Never  were  people  so  earnest  after  news  as  we  are,  and 
yet  no  news  can  we  hear  that  may  be  depended  on.  The 
taking  of  Carlisle  by  the  rebels  is  the  last  we  have  had ; 
some  lament  it,  others  more  politic  say  it  will  prove  a 
trap  to  them.  Pray  God  send  us  peace  !  but  it  seems  re- 
moved far  fi'ora  us.  I  have  not  heard  from  my  brother 
Granville  a  great  while.  Is  it  not  a  shame  to  say  I  hope 
he  is  not  engaged  in  my  Lord  Gower  s  regiment  ?  Should 
I  not  have  a  more  martial  and  public  spirit  ?  If  giving  up 
my  own  life  would  save  my  country  from  ruin  I  think 
I  could  do  it,  but  to  hazard  a  dear  friend's  at  an  un- 


*  Mrs.  Marley,  wife  of  the  Bishop  of  Dromore. 

*  ThiB  is  the  first  comment  upon  the  Bishop's  and  Mrs.  Clayton's  pro 
oeedings  after  Mrs.  Delany's  return  to  Ireland,  and  clearly  proves  that  she 
has  had  reason  to  believe  them  both  changed  for  the  worse  in  the  twelve  years 
of  her  absence. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


400  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

certainty  I  cannot  besir,  and  I  hope  in  God  he  is  safe  from 
any  such  hazard.    Ton  have  not  mentioned  him  lately. 

I  was  going  in  all  haste  to  have  a  new  fruit  wall  built, 
but  it  must  now  be  deferred  till  spring.  The  lawn  before 
our  house,  where  our  sheep  are  to  feed,  wiU  be  finished 
soon,  and  will  be  a  great  improvement  to  the  view  before 
that  part  of  the  house.  I  am  deeply  engaged  in  copying 
the  Duchess  of  Mazarines  picture ;  yesterday  I  finished 
painting  the  face  for  the  second  time.  I  have  copied  in 
large  one  of  the  sketches  of  Dovedale  that  I  took  when 
we  were  there  together.  How  many  tender  ideas  did 
it  raise  whilst  I  was  drawing  it ! 

On  the  Princess  of  Wales's  birthday  there  appeared  at 
Court  a  great  nimiber  of  Irish  stuffs.  Lady  Chesterfield 
was  dressed  in  one,  and  I  had  the  secret  satisfaction  of 
knowing  myself  to  have  been  the  cause,  but  dare  not  say 
so  here ;  but  I  say,  *'  I  am  glad  to  find  my  Lady  Chester- 
field's example  has  had  so  good  an  influence."  The  poor 
weavers  are  starving, — aU  trade  has  met  with  a  great  check 
this  year. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at  Glocester, 

Delville,  30th  Nov.,  1745. 

This  folio  I  hope  will  find  my  dearest  sister  well  re- 
covered after  the  fatigue  of  her  journey  and  her  dear  boy ; 
and  Our  dear  mama  happy  with  her  well  beloved  guests, 
and  my  letters  will  find  the  way  after  you ;  0  that  I  cou'd 
at  this  instant  be  as  easily  convey 'd !  Mr.  Duncomb's 
letter  that  came  by  the  x  post  came  very  expeditiously. 
When  you  are  brought  to  bed  I  beg  I  may  have  an  ac- 
count sent  me  by   x  post  and  by  the  other  also,  for  fear  one 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS,  DELANY.  401 

should  miscarry.  Mrs,  Green  had  an  extraordinary  good 
time ;  she  says  she  expected  to  have  felt  a  great  deal  more ; 
I  was  snrpriz'd  at  that,  for  I  always  thought  whatever 
apprehensions  were,  pain  always  far  exceeded  them.  I 
pray  God  it  may  be  so  with  you,  on  his  mercy  and  good- 
ness I  rely,  and  that  only  can  support  my  spirits  at  this 
time. 

I  very  sincerely  rejoice,  and  so  does  the  Dean,  at  Mr. 
Dewes's  recovery ;  we  have  both  felt  a  great  deal  of  pain 
on  his  account.  I  could  wish  if  his  feverishness  is  gone 
oflF,  that  he  would  take  Dr.  Bave's  bitters ;  I  believe  I  «ent 
you  the  receipt :  they  have  done  great  service  to  many 
people  to  whom  I  have  recommended  them. 

I  am  glad  the  fair  little  boy  was  so  well  before  you 
were  obliged  to  leave  him.  I  think  you  have  exerted 
the  motherly  authority  very  heroically,  and  I  don't  doubt 
but  he  will  bless  you  in  time  for  the  little  smart  ^  he  has 
received  from  your  hands.  Tou  have  more  merit  in  such 
a  case  than  the  generality  of  mothers  can  have,  because 
you  have  more  tenderness  almost  than  any  human 
creature 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  finishing  your  curtains,  and 


'  This  was  no  donbt  an  allusion  to  that  very  wholesome  instrument  of  cor- 
rection, in  the  hand  of  a  judicious  parent — a  small  legitimate  real  birch  rod, 
the  disuse  of  which  in  the  present  age,  from  the  maudlin  sentiment  of  those  who 
consider  themselves  so  much  wiser  than  Solomon,  has  led  to  correction  by  all 
sorts  of  petty  tortures,  bad  for  body  and  miitd  ;  and  has  conduced  very  much 
towards  gluttony,  by  the  substitution  of  the  punishment  of  privation  of  food,  or 
the  change  of  chiijiren's  diet  to  what  is  most  disliked,  as  well  as  other  equally 
injurious  penances  which  fret  the  temper,  under  the  mistaken  idea  that  thn 
reasoning  faculties  of  children  ccm  he  exercised  before  they  are  formed,  and 
that  the  instantaneous  and  efficacious,  though  harmless,  smart  of  a  few  twigs 
of  birch  is  beneath  the  dignity  of  a  mother  to  apply  or  a  descendant  of  Adam 
to  receive. 

VOL.  II.  2    D 


Digitized  by 


Google 


402  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

think  it  a  vast  work  accomplished  for  a  person  engi^ed 
with  such  a  family  of  children.  I  like  the  character  of 
your  wise  neighbour,  and  hope  to  hear  of  an  increase  of 
his  wisdom. 

The  Bishop  of  Waterford  died  yesterday  morning,  and 
before  noon  the  bishopric  was  disposed  of  to  Chevenix, 
Bishop  of  KiUaloe,  and  the  bishopric  given  to  Dr.  Syng, 
Archdeacon  of  Dublin,^  and  the  Archdeaconry  to  Dr. 
Pocock  (the  traveller),  chaplain  to  the  Lord  Lieutenant. 
Now  I  know  the  rage  boils,  and  that  even  you  ahnost  say 
bitter  things,  but  the  present  Bishop  of  Waterford  is  a 
very  humble  and  honest  man,  he  has  a  £unily  of  children 
and  no  fortune ;  and  I  only  wish  that  bishoprics  were 
generally  as  well  bestowed ;  Killaloe  is  7U>t  worth  a  wish 
and  much  less  any  regret. 

We  were  invited  to  dine  at  the  Castle  yesterday,  and 
were  received  with  great  politeness  and  good  humour; 
nobody  there,  but  ourselves  :  as  they  said  they  "  wished 
to  have  us  alone,  that  they  might  enjoy  our  company 
without  interruption."  My  Lord  Chesterfield  was  in  high 
spirits  after  dinner,  which  was  small  and  very  good ; 
coffee  was  then  set  on  the  table,  and  the  Dean  and  my 
Lord  Lieutenant  fell  into  a  very  entertaining  and  agree- 
able conversation,  chiefly  of  poets  and  poetry.     There  is 


*  Charles  Este,  Bishop  of  Ossory,  was  translated  in  1740  to  the  bishopric  of 
Waterford,  in  which  he  was  succeeded,  1745,  by  Richard  Chevenix,  Bishop  of 
Killaloe,  and  Nicholas  Synge,  Archdeacon  of  Dublin,  was  made  Bishop  of 
Killaloe- 

*  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  Mrs.  Delany  never  considered  it  beneath  the 
refinement  of  her  taste,  or  the  superiority  of  her  understanding,  to  oomonent 
upon  the  dinners  of  her  friends,  and  often  to  give  details — ^not  those  of  an 
epicure,  but  those  of  a  gentlewoman  whose  daily  duty  of  household  superin- 
tendence at  borne  made  her  observant  of  what  was  right  or  wrong  elsewhere. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  403 

no  entertainment  equal  to  that  of  hearing  two  very  in- 
genious men  talk  on  agreeable  subjects.  We  stayed  till 
near  seven,  and  came  home  well  pleased  with  the  enter- 
tainment of  the  day,  and  not  at  all  mortified  with  the  good 
fortxme  of  others.  The  Dean  has  always  one  happy  and 
never  failing  satisfaction  in  his  own  way  of  thinking — 
which  is  a  firm  conviction  that  all  things  are  ordered  by 
a  wise  Disposer,  who  knows  best  what  is  good  for  us. 

The  bell  rings  for  church,  this  being  St  Andrew.    If  I 
can  add  a  few  lines  I  will. 


A,  G,  to  Jier  friend  Martha^  ai  Calwich, 

Deer.  12th. 

Indeed,  my  good  Mend  Martha,  you  send  me  so  many 
fine  presents  that  I  shall  blind  myself  with  thanking 
you,  or  what  will  be  almost  as  bad,  kill  myself  with 
eating  them.  Such  a  turkey  1  0  how  monstrously  I  did 
eate,  and  to  be  sure  it  lasted  me  more  meals  than  one ; 
though  I  did  give  Mrs.  DonneUan  a  bitt.  She  sends  her 
compliments  to  master,  and  desires  you  will  tell  him 
that  he  is  sadly  wanted  in  town,  and  upon  my  word  I 
long  to  see  him  more  than  I  will  say.  We  have  terible 
cold  weather ;  I  have  been  half  froze.  T  realy  think  I 
should  not  have  lived  last  week  if  you  had  not  sent  me  the 
good  turkey  to  eate,  it  kept  the  frost  out  of  my  stomach. 
I  honor  Toby  for  killing  so  many  ratts,  and  I  am  rejoyed 
to  think  the  fox  is  kiUed ;  I  wish  you  could  kiU  ten  more, 
and  then  the  skins  would  make  me  a  gown.  But  can 
you  tell  me  how  you  catched  him,  for  here  is  the  greatest 
devil  of  a  fox  at  present  hanging  about  St.  George's  and 
Westminster  that  was  ever  known  anywhere;   he  de- 

2  d2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


404  LIFE  AND  COKRESPONDENCE 

stroys  every  thing  he  comes  near,  beast  and  bird  ;  some 
people  think  he  has  brought  to  his  den  the  very  king  of 
beasts ;  he  does  not  kill  them  all,  for  he  conld  not  eat 
so  many,  but  he  makes  them  destroy  one  another  I  He 
has  a  cunning  way  of  drawing  them  all  about  him,  and 
they  say  he  has  a  kind  of  glittering  dust  in  his  brush 
that  he  shakes  when  they  are  near  him,  and  the  dust  flies 
into  all  their  eyes,  and  from  that  time  they  do  nothing 
but  devour  and  eate  one  another,  and  he  does  not  forget 
to  make  them  bring  tit-bitts  and  good  morsels  to  put  in 
his  own  maw.  He  has  been  hunted  these  two  or  three 
winters  furiously,  traps  and  gins  of  all  sorts  set,  but  he  has 
not  yet  been  catched.  Now,  dear  Martha,  if  you  can 
put  me  in  a  way  how  to  catch  him  I  wou'd  cut  off  his 
tail  and  put  an  end  to  his  shaking  that  cursed  shining 
dust  about,  and  puU  out  both  his  eyes,  then  you  and  I 
wou'd  carry  him  about  for  a  shew,  we  shou'd  get  a 
power  of  money  by  him  at  sixpence  a  piece.  I  am  told 
there  is  not  one  county  in  England  where  he  has  not 
sent  some  of  his  own  breed  to,  and  has  given  them  some 
of  this  more  than  accursed  dust,  with  which  they  do 
more  mischief  than  any  beast  alive  has  ever  done. 
Maybe  it  is  one  of  them  you  have  killed  for  fear  it 
shou'd  burry  his  brush  deep  in  the  earth  for  fear  of  this 
same  dust ;  and  have  a  care  of  your  own  eyes,  and  I  beg 
master  wiU  take  care  of  his,  for  they  say  it  may  do 
Christian's  eyes  harm  as  well  as  others. 

The  King  of  Prussia  is  well,  and  going  into  winter 
quarters:  he  says  he  will  knock  all  their  heads  together 
in  the  spring,  and  /  Iiope  he  toill. 

I  have  no  news.  My  duty  to  master,  and  tel  him  I 
prodigously  wish  he  wou'd  come  to  town  this  bad  wea- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  405 

tlier.  I  hope  you  will  take  care  and  keep  yourself  warm 
this  winter.  Mrs.  Donnellan  is  remembered  to  you, 
and  I  am. 

Dear  Martha,  sincerely  yours, 

A.  (J. 

In  Mrs.  DoneUan's  handwriting. 

Gran  had  just  finished  this  scrole  when  Mrs.  Donnellan 
was  informed  that  Mr.  Granville  had  been  very  iU,  but 
was  better.  She  sent  immediately  to  his  house  to  en- 
quire, but  his  servant  knew  nothing  of  it,  so  that  she  is 
in  hopes  it  is  not  true ;  however  she  shall  be  veiy  glad 
to  hear  either  that  he  has  not  been  ill  or  is  better,  if 
the  report  is  true,  and  she  desires  Mend  Martha  will 
make  her  kind  compliments  to  him ;  and  she  hopes  if  he 
has  been  ill  that  he  will  come  to  town  as  soon  as  he  is 
well  enough  to  venture,  and  she  shall  beg  to  hear  how 
he  does,  as  she  shaQ  not  be  easy  about  him  till  she  does. 
Gran  was  unwilling  to  send  her  letter  tiU  she  heard 
more  of  him,  but  Mrs.  Donnellan  thought  if  he  was 
pretty  well  it  might  divert  him,  and  was  an  opportunity 

of  sending  both  wishes. 

December  12. 

The  Editor  has  not  found  any  clue  by  which  to  identify  the 
writer  of  these  curious  and  entertaining  letters.  That  she  had  been 
in  the  service  of  Mr.  Granville  is  evident,  and  that  she  wrote  to 
a  person  in  hb  service,  and  residing  with  him  at  Galwich  is  also 
clear.  But  there  is  a  humour,  and  an  interest  in  public  affairs,  and 
a  vein  of  irony,  which,  considered  with  orthography,  which  is  very 
Uttle  inferior  to  that  of  the  gentlewomen  of  the  time,  indicates  that 
she  was  one  of  that  useful  and  respectable  class  which  has  disap- 
peared  with    the  century — a  clergyman's  or    poor  gentleman's 


Digitized  by 


Google 


406  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

daughter^  who,  well  qualified  in  all  domestic  matters,  served  or 
"  took  ^emce"  as  a  housekeeper  or  "  gentlewoman's  woman,"  and 
when  there  was  no  company  and  she  was  not  engaged  in  the  busi- 
ness of  her  calling,  assisted  her  mistress  in  ingenious  works,  and 
did  nothing  without  her  knowledge  and  sanction. 


Jfrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewei,  ai  Gloucester. 

Delville,  21Dec,1746. 

Many  flying  reports  we  have  had  of  the  entire  defeat  of 
the  rebels,  but  there  is  no  stress  to  be  laid  on  ship  news ; 
besides  the  rumour  of  one  day  is  contradicted  by  the  next. 
I  have  answered  all  your  letters  ;  never  was  one  more  wel- 
come than  that  which  brought  the  account  of  my  brother  s 
being  with  you  at  Gloucester.  I  had  terrified  myself  ex- 
tremely on  his  account ;  I  could  not  think  of  him  sur- 
rounded by  those  desperate  rebels  without  fearing  the 
worst  that  could  happen ;  but  your  letter  happily  relieved 
me  from  my  anxiety. 

I  don't  fbid  that  the  troubles  of  the  times  have  given 
any  check  to  gay  doings  in  this  part  of  the  world.  The 
castle  is  crowded  twice  a  week ;  plays,  a«sembly^  and 
drums,  are  as  much  frequented  as  ever.  I  must  own 
this  may  be  a  right  policy  to  keep  up  the  hopes  of 
people^  but  I  am  surprized  that  their  spirits  should  hold 
out ;  and  I  cannot  but  think,  under  the  terrible  appre- 
hensions of  losing  our  liberty  and  our  property,  it  would 
be  more  becoming  to  abate  our  diversions,  especially  as  we 
have  reason  to  think  that  the  great  irreligion  and  luxury 
of  the  times  have  brought  our  present  calamities  on 
us  I  though  (I  hope  in  God)  we  have  no  apparent  reason 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  407 

to  fear  that  the  rebels  will  succeed  in  their  attempts.  We 
already  feel,  and  must  still  feel  more  the  sad  effects  of 
only  an  attempt,  for  expenses  have  been  very  great, 
and  it  will  be  a  considerable  time  before  those  wounds 
can  be  healed.  The  distemper  amongst  the  cows  about 
London  ^  is  a  sad  distress;  I  hope  it  has  not  reached  the 
country. 

I  wrote  you  word  last  Saturday  that  I  was  to  have  a 
rare  rout.  I  had  two  tables  for  dinner,  ten  persons  at 
each  table ;  my  hall  is  as  large  as  my  parlour,  and 
boarded,  so  I  thought  it  best  to  have  one  of  the  tables 
placed  there,  and  I  desired  an  aunt  of  Mrs.  Green's  to  do 
the  honours  for  me,  which  made  the  affair  very  easy. 
Mrs.  Gh-een  sat  in  my  bedchamber  to  receive  her  com- 
pany, and  everybody  was  gay  and  well  pleased  except 
young  Mrs.  Agar,  the  daughter  to  my  Lord  Castle- 
durrow^  (whose  son,  Mr.  Flower,  married  Miss  Tatton), 
and  she  poor  woman  was  taken  ill  at  dinner,  and  in  danger 
of  miscarrying :  I  urged  her  to  stay  as  much  as  I  could, 
as  I  really  thought  she  run  a  vast  hazard  in  going  home ; 


'  The  distemper  here  alluded  to  amongst  the  cows,  was  a  violent  inflam- 
matory fever,  attributed  to  the  wetness  of  the  season.  It  prevailed  in  1744  in 
the  south  of  France,  Savoy,  and  Italy,  and  afterwards  commenced  in  Sweden, 
Norway,  Denmark,  and  Great  Britain.  The  receipt  made  use  of  in  Sweden  was 
considered  very  efiBcacious,  and  printed  at  Stockholm,  in  the  King's  printing 
office,  in  November,  1745.  It  was  composed  of  snakeweed,  caznphire,  va- 
lerian, elecampane,  lovage,  laurel  berries,  the  root  of  angelica,  carline  thistles, 
agaric,  and  roots  of  masterwort.  All  these  ingredients,  in  various  proportions, 
were  to  be  reduced  to  powder  and  mixed  with  16}  ounces  of  common  salt.  It 
was  to  be  administered  to  each  cow  fasting,  on  toasted  bread,  which  was  to  be 
sprinkled  with  as  much  as  could  be  taken  up  with  the  thumb  and  finger. 

*  William  Flower,  created  in  October,  1733,  Baron  of  Castle  Durrow,  county 
Kilkenny.  He  married  Edith,  daughter  of  the  Hon.  T.  Caulfield,  and  bad  a 
son,  Henry,  who  married  Miss  Tatton,  daughter  to  (General  Tatton,  and  a 
daughter  who  married  in  July,  1741,  James  Agar,  Esq.,  of  Ringwood,  county 
Kilkenny. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


408  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

but  home  she  would  go,  and  the  day  after  she  miscarried, 
but  is  in  a  fair  way  of  doing  well. 

Last  Monday  the  Dean  and  I  went  to  the  rehearsal  of 
the  Messiah,^  for  the  relief  of  poor  debtors ;  it  was  very  well 
performed,  and  I  much  deKghted.  You  know  how  much 
I  delight  in  music,  and  that  piece  is  very  charming  ;  but 
I  had  not  courage  to  go  to  the  performance  at  night,  the 
weather  was  so  excessively  bsid,  and  I  thought  it  would 
be  hazardous  to  come  out  of  so  great  crowd  so  far,  that 
is  my  kind  guardian  thought  so  for  me. 

The  great  folks  at  the  Castle  continue  to  show  great 
favour,  but  we  pay  them  little  attendance,  no  more 
than  not  to  be  remarked  as  backward.  Everybody  is  to 
appear  on  the  Prince  of  Wales's  birlJiday  in  Irish  stuffs, 
as  they  did  on  the  Princess's :  I  have  not  yet  bought 
mine.  My  new  housekeeper  promises  very  well,  and  I 
have  got  a  pretty  young  cookmaid^  that  dresses  meat 
incomparably  well,  as  far  as  we  go,  for  we  keep  a  plain 
table. 

I  have  desired  Mr.  Stanley  to  pay  Mr.  Dewes  twenty- 
four  pounds,  fourteen  of  it  to  be  disposed  of  as  usual,  and 
ten  pound  for  Mrs.  C.  on  H's  account,  indeed  I  meant  it 
for  him,  but  my  money  was  not  paid  time  enough  before 
his  sailing.  The  Dean's  kind  love  and  wishes  attend 
the  "  pearly  Dewes." 


»  The  Messiah  was  first  performed  in  Dublin  on  the  12th  of  April,  1742 ; 
when  Mrs.  Cibber  executed  her  airs  so  pathetically  that  Dr.  Delany  is  said  to 
have  exclaimed  as  he  listened,  '*  Woman,  forthis,  be  all  thy  sins  forgiven.** 

'  This  is  not  to  be  understood  to  mean  a  cook  with  a  pretty  face,  but  a  clever 
person  in  her  business. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  409 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes,  at  Gloucester* 

DelviUe,  4  Jan.,  1746-1746. 

Tour  letter  of  the  29tli  of  Dec.  came  smiling  to  make 
the  new  year  open  with  a  fair  and  promising  aspect.  It  is 
impossible,  if  we  ever  make  any  proper  reflections,  not  to 
have  the  heart  truly  sensible  at  this  season  of  the  year  6f 
the  many  blessings  we  enjoy  which  demand  our  most  . 
grateful  praise  and  thanksgiving. 

A  thousand  thanks  for  all  your  kind  wishes,  which  are 
returned  by  D.D.  and  me  to  the  utmost.  As  I  write  con- 
stantly* to  you,  I  don't  address  a  letter  particularly  to 
my  mother,  which  I  hope  she  does  not  think  disrespectful 
or  unkind,  for  my  affection  and  duty  for  her  are  more  than 
my  words  can  express,  but  I  know  when  she  has  any 
letter  to  answer  it  is  a  trouble  on  her  spirits,  though  when 
you  are  unable  to  write  yourself  I  know  her  goodness 
will  indulge  me  at  that  time. 

The  ugly  rebels  have  been  this  year  a  public  and 
private  plague !  Had  it  not  been  for  their  proceedings  we 
had  in  aU  probability  been  now  together ;  though  when 
the  hour  comes  so  much  wished  for  of  my  setting  foot  on 
English  ground,  I  shall  then  rejoice  that  I  was  kept 
80  much  longer  in  Ireland  amongst  them.  I  cannot  ex* 
press  what  a  joy  and  satisfaction  my  brother's  being  at 
Gloucester  has  been  to  me ;  I  know  how  happy  his  com- 
pany makes  you  aU,  and  the  dread  I  had  on  my  spirits 
^  when  I  imagined  him  a  prey  to  the  rebels  is  relieved. 
I  find  the  town  is  resolved  to  provide  a  young  wife  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


410  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Lord  G  ;^  surely  he  is  not  such  a  Jew  as  in  the  midst  of 
such  a  variety  to  confine  his  choice  to  his  own  tribe?  He 
has  not  before  been  famous  for  his  love  of  cousins  I 

The  Dean  has  had  a  bad  cold,  which  he  caught  by  read- 
ing damp  books ;  during  which  time  I  was  so  gracious 
as  to  indulge  him  with  my  English  room,  which  is  very 
warm  when  the  wind  is  easterly.  We  lived  four  days  in  it, 
our  quarters  are  now  enlarged.  I  have  now  finished 
my  three  and  thirtieth  drawing  for  my  book,  and  am 
reduced  to  the  fruit  of  my  imagination;  I  have  made  one 
landscape  after  my  own  whim,  which  is  a  favorite  of  the 
Dean's.  But  his  partiahty  takes  [She  should  say  may 
he  suspected  to  "  take'^  (in  the  Dean's  hand)]  place  of  his 
judgment. 

We  have  almost  finished  Sir  Thomas  Hanmer's  Shake- 
spear  ;  our  next  study  is  to  be  the  Life  of  the  Admirals,* 
which  they  say  is  very  entertaining.  I  hope  soon  to  have 
Letty  Bushe  here. 

Mrs.  Barber,  the  painter  s  wife,  is  brought  to  bed  of  a 
boy ;  they  have  now  two  boys  and  a  girl.  Since  the  very 
cold  weather  we  have  taken  to  our  old  sports  of  hunting 
the  fox  and  puss  in  a  corner,  which  warms  us  better  than 
a  great  fire.  I  have  sent  you  a  grey  stuff  such  as  is  the 
present  mode,  and  the  Dean  has  taken  the  liberty  to  send 
my  mother  a  brown  one.  They  go  with  a  cai^o  of  goods, 
and  a  merchant  has  undertaken  to  send  them  all  safely. 

^  Lord  Granville,  whose  attentions  to  his  cousin,  the  Maid  of  Honour,  were 
before  mentioned. 

'  The  lives  of  the  Admirals  and  other  eminent  British  Seamen ;  by  J.  Oamp- 
bell,  LL.D.  A  voluminous  historical,  biographical,  and  political  writer:  was 
bom  at  Edinburgh,  1708 ;  died  at  London,  1775.  This  work  passed  through 
three  editions  in  the  author's  life. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  411 

To-day  Dr.  Pocock  dines  with  us.  On  Monday  I  am  to 
have  Mrs.  Hamilton's  four  sons  and  two  daughters  to 
choose  King  and  Queen,  which  will  make  the  young 
things  happy. 


Mn,  Ddawy  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,llJan.,  1745-6. 

My  dearest  sister's  letter  of  the  last  day  of  the  old  year 
delighted  my  eyes  last  Tuesday.  I  hope  you  went  through 
all  your  Xtmas  routs  without  taking  cold,  or  being  too 
much  fatigued.  It  is  a  time  that  custom  has  given  up  to 
mirth,  and  as  far  as  cheerful  society  and  hospitality 
goes  it  ought  to  be  continued.  I  have  not  had  much 
of  it  here.  We  are  too  near  the  metropolis  for  that  sort 
of  living;  especially  this  winter,  when  everybody  is 
engaged  in  a  more  public  way  of  diverting  themselves. 
I  have  withdrawn  myself  from  these  sort  of  engagements, 
and  find  more  pleasure  in  the  quiet  enjoyment  of  my  own 
amusements  at  home  than  a  crowd  can  give  me ;  and  it 
is  very  happy  that  as  our  season  of  life  changes  our  taste 
for  pleasures  alter.  In  the  spring  and  summer  of  Ufe 
we  fixMer  and  bask  in  the  sunshine  of  diversions — ^it  is 
true  we  run  the  hazard  of  being  tamed  and  seldom 
escape  it ;  in  the  autumn  and  in  the  winter  of  life  we  by 
degrees  seek  for  shade  and  shelter,  and  if  we  have  made 
a  good  and  prudent  gathering  of  fruit  and  harvest,  we 
may  then  have  the  fuU  enjoyment  of  them,  as  long  as  the 
great  Author  and  Giver  thinks  fit. 

My  eyes  have  continued  very  well ;  and  I  have  painted, 
and  drawn,  and  read,  and  work'd,  and  done  everything 
with  them  without  any  return.     I  am  very  glad  you 


Digitized  by 


Google 


412  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

have  had  Sally  in  good  spirits ;  I  suppose  she  has  left  you 
before  this.  I  take  her  rebuke,  which  I  well  deserved, 
and  will  write  to  her  very  soon,  I  spoke  to  Mr,  Barber 
about  copying  Lady  Stanley's  picture ;  and  as  soon  as  I 
receive  my  brother's  commands  wiU  set  about  it.  Pray 
let  me  know  if  he  would  have  the  little  Cupid  and  the 
whole  coyied  just  as  it  is. 

Last  Twelfth-day  I  invited  Mrs,  Hamilton  s  little  family 
to  choose  King  and  Queen.  The  eldest  daughter  about 
nineteen,  three  boys,  the  eldest  thirteen,  and  a  little  girl 
not  yet  five,  a  most  delightful  entertaining  child.  She  was 
Queen,  and  entered  into  the  part  as  well  as  Grarrick  could 
have  done.  I  sent  them  home  loaded  with  plum-cake,  and 
in  fine  spirits.  Last  Tuesday  we  dined  at  Lord  Grandi- 
son's :  Lady  Betty  Mason  has  lost  her  third  child,  and 
has  now  only  a  little  boy  four  months  old.  Our  nursery 
goes  on  finely.  Yesterday  arrived  our  ingenious  Letty  : 
she  has  brought  good  health  and  fat  sides,  and  I  am 
very  happy  to  have  her ;  she  has  spread  before  me  some 
of  her  drawings  that  she  has  done  since  I  saw  her, 
and  they  are  charming.  I  lent  her  some  prints  of 
Claude  Lorraine,  that  she  has  copied  to  great  per- 
fection ;  and  now  we  shall  paint  and  draw  and  chatter 
together  as  fast  as  our  hands,  eyes,  and  tongues  can  go. 

My  spirits  rise  as  the  sun  grows  brighter,  and  though  it 
must  be  some  months  hence,  I  hope  in  God  this  wiU  be 
a  year  of  our  meeting.  I  think  it  best  to  inform  you 
and  my  brother  about  the  time  we  propose  seeing  England, 
that  you  may  contrive  your  affairs  to  the  best  advantage  for 
our  being  as  much  tx>gether  as  possible.  The  Dean  can- 
not leave  Ireland  till  he  settles  his  accounts,  which  will  be 
in  May,  and  about  the  middle  he  will  be  quite  at  liberty. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  4i3 

That  too  is  the  safest  season  for  crossing  the  sea»  and  if  we 
stay  till  then  we  may  spend  a  whole  year  in  England. 
I  have  not  yet  finished  the  Duchess  of  Mazarin ;  the  cold 
weather  and  dark  days  kept  me  very  idle.  I  now  am 
in  full  employment.  To-morrow  the  Bishop  of  Clogher 
and  Mrs.  Clayton  dine  here. 

I  hope  by  the  accounts  we  have  had  lately  of  the  rebels 
that  they  will  no  more  molest  us.  Our  Duchess,  I  suppose, 
Ls  at  Whitehall  before  this.  She  has  been  much  affected  by 
the  troubles  of  the  times ;  Lady  Wallingford  was  with  her 
at  Bulstrode.  We  have  j  ust  finished  Sir  T.H's  Shakespear.  ^ 
It  is  a  very  complete  edition.  I  have  been  tormented 
all  this  morning  in  looking  for  two  guineas'  worth  of 
tickets  for  a  lottery  of  books^  and  cannot  find  them ;  and 
with  Bushe's  chattering  and  showing  me  her  drawings, 
has  run  away  with  my  morning. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  Qhcester, 

Delville,  18  Jan.,  1746-6. 

I  am  now  under  some  distress  for  poor  Mrs,  Greene ; 
her  pretty  little  boy,  I  am  afraid,  is  in  a  very  dangerous 
way.  Dr.  Barber  has  attended  him  constantly,  and  this 
morning  desires  the  assistance  of  a  man-midwife  to  consult 
with.  Mrs.  Gfreene  is  greatly  afficted,  she  is  of  a  quiet 
affectionate  disposition  and  not  apt  to  complain,  which 
makes  grief  prey  upon  her  more  sharply;  we  had  all  grown 
very  fond  of  the  little  boy ;  it  is  an  exceedingly  pretty 
child ;  tut  I  hardly  think  he  can  recover. 


^  Sir  Thomas  Hanmer  published  a  corrected  and  ilhistrated  edition  of 
Shakspeare's  dramatic  works,  in  6  vols.,  4to. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


414  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Next  Monday  we  are  all  prepared  to  appear  at  the  Cas- 
tle in  Irish  stuffs ;  I  have  bought  a  sprigged  one.  Some 
are  made  very  costly,  which  /  think  foolish,  for  when  they 
mix  much  silk  they  are  not  so  useful,  some  are  so  silly, 
they  tell  me,  as  to  have  them  sprigged  with  silver ;  by 
the  by,  I  hear  we  are  like  to  be  disappointed ;  for  Lady 
Chesterfield  has  been  much  out  of  order  with  St  Anthony's 
fire,  and  yesterday  was  not  well  enough  to  see  company. 

I  believe  I  wrote  you  word  that  my  ingenious  Letty  was 
come  to  me,  and  I  am  very  happy  in  her  company ;  her 
good  sense,  her  good  humour  and  liveliness,  msike  her  an 
agreeable  companion  for  all  ages  and  all  seasons.  I  have 
often  lamented  her  not  having  made  some  acquaintance 
with  you,  and  she  does  the  same ;  sometimes  she  talks  of 
making  England  another  visit,  and  if  she  does  I  hope 
you  will  meet,  for  I  am  sure  you  must  like  one  another. 
0  provoking !  this  moment  am  I  interrupted  by  compmy, 
and  must  finish. 


Mn,  Ddany  to  Mrs  Dewes,  at  Gloucester, 

Delville,  25  Jan.,  1745^. 

I  hope  the  old  saying  on  St  Paul's  day  will  not  be 
verified  this  year.  We  have  already  been  grievously 
afflicted  with  wars,  and  the  wind  now  blows  most  vehe- 
mently, and  most  vexatiously,  for  it  blows  full  against  the 
packets.  Four  wiU  be  due  to-morrow.  I  am  as  igno- 
rant of  what  you  are  all  doing,  and  how  you  are,  as 
if  you  were  in  China,  and  if  the  packets  when  they 
come  in  do  not  bring  me  word  of  my  being  richer 
by  a  nephew  or  niece,  I  shall  be  baulked.  Since  I  last 
wrote  to  you,  we  have  been  in  frights  for  the  little  boy 
here,  but  he  is  now  very  well  again,  though  so  ill  two 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  415 

days,  that  we  ^ave  him  up  for  gone.  We  are  all  fond  of 
the  little  thing,  and  it  is  a  very  pretty  baby. 

Onr  great  Lady  has  been  so  ill  as  not  to  see  company 
a  great  while;  she  did  not  appear  on  the  Birthday,  so 
there  was  no  morning  drawing-room,  but  a  ball  at  night, 
and  my  Lord  Chesterfield  did  the  honours.  It  was  pro- 
digiously crowded,  and  all  the  ladies  were  dressed  in  Irish 
stuff,  and  never  looked  finer  or  more  genteel :  except  five 
or  six  who  wore  silk,  and  they  were  not  distinguish'd  to 
their  honour.  The  men  were  not  so  public-spirited  as 
the  ladies — most  of  them  were  in  their  foreign  finery. 

Last  Sunday  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vesey,  (Mrs  Handcock  that 
was).  Miss  Handcock,  and  Mrs.  Marley  came  to  dine 
with  us ;  I  found  them  in  my  garden  when  I  came  from 
church.  On  Monday  I  went  in  the  morning  to  see  Mrs. 
Hamilton.  I  am  making  some  little  brackets  such  as  Mr. 
Bateman's,  but  instead  of  gilding  them  I  cover  them  loith 
shells;  I  design  to  have  eight  of  them  for  my  closet,  to 
hold  little  pieces  of  China.  Letty  is  now  drawing  some 
beautiful  landscapes  in  the  Indian  book  Mrs.  Mead  gave 
me ;  she  drew  four  in  it  last  year.  Her  good  sense  and  good 
humour  make  her  a  very  desirable  companion,  without 
considering  the  embellishments  that  enliven  the  whole. 
She  seems  pleased  to  be  here,  and  is  always  ready  to  listen 
when  I  want  to  talk  of  my  English  friends,  which  is  no  in- 
significant quality  with  me.  We  have  finished  Shakespear 
and  have  begun  the  History  of  the  Naval  Forces  of  Eng- 
land, which  promises  us  very  good  entertainment.  On 
Tuesday  last  I  went  to  hear  Deborah  performed,  for  the 
support  of  one  of  the  infirmaries.  It  is  a  charming  piece 
of  music,  and  was  extremely  well  performed ;  we  have  a 
woman  here,  a  Mrs.  Storer,  who  has  a  very  sweet  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


416  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

clear  voice,  and  though  she  has  vo  judgment  in  music, 
Duhourg  manages  her  so  well  in  his  manner  of  accom- 
panying her,  as  to  make  her  singing  very  agreeahle. 

We  dined  that  day  at  my  Lord  Grandison  s.  All  the 
conversation  at  present  is  ahout  the  poor  Bishop  of 
Ossory's  *  loss  ;  she  (his  wife)  died  last  week  of  a  fever, 
much  lamented  by  everybody.  She  was  sister  to  Miss 
O'Brien,  who  was  so  ill-treated  by  my  Lord  Kildare :  she 
was  very  pretty  and  very  yotmg.  On  Wednesday  we 
dined  at  Mr.  Monck's,  Lady  Bell  very  civil,  and  the 
same  Miss  Notable  as  ever.  On  Thursday  Mr.  Barber's 
child  was  Xtned,  and  we  spent  a  merry  day  there  :  I  think 
I  told  you  they  have  a  house  joining  to  our  kitchen  gar- 
den. Yesterday  we  spent  the  whole  day  at  home,  and  I 
am  as  glad  of  a  pretence  so  to  do,  as  I  have  formerly  been 
of  going  to  a  public  place.  The  change  in  my  Ministry 
has  been  for  the  better.  Apropos,  the  great  folks  on 
the  other  side  of  the.  water,  we  are  told,  are  changing, 
and  some  day  Lord  Gr.  is  to  be  Principal  Secretary  of 
State.  What  say  you?  I  am  quite  easy  about  the 
matter;  we  shall  ask  no  favour  (let  who  will  be  in 
power) — ^for  ourselves  I  mean.  Did  I  write  you  word 
we  had  got  a  new  terene  ?^  the  Dean  invented  it,  and  I 
drew  the  draught ;  it  is  very  well  executed,  the  chasing 
is  mighty  well  done :  it  holds  six  quarts,  and  has  a  very 
light  look.  My  next  work  will  be  to  make  a  nine-pin 
alley,  which  I  have  undertaken  to  do ;  we  have  a  little  odd 
nook  of  a  garden,  at  the  end  of  which  is  a  very  pretty  sum- 
mer-house, and  in  the  comers  of  it  are  houses  built  up  for 


*  Br.  Michael  Cox,  Bishop  orOssory,  1743,  traDslated  to  Archbisbopric  of 
Cashel  1754,  died  1779. 
■  Query  TureeD.  * 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY. 


417 


blowing  anricolajs ;  it  is  upon  the  whole  of  a  triangular 
form,  long  and  narrow,  much  like  this  scratch. 


AA,  the  blow-houfieson 
pillars.  B,  the  sum- 
mer-house or  temple. 
C,  frame  for  nine 
pins. 


The  walls  to  be  covered  with  evergreens,  and  room 
enough  for  borders  of  flowers.  It  was  originally  designed 
for  a  nursery  for  flowers,  but  the  walls  are  too  close,  it  is 
very  near  the  house,  arid  will  make  a  special  nine-pin  alley, 
which  I  think  a  mry  merry  exercise.  We  had  thoughts 
of  having  a  bowling-green  before  our  house  in  the  garden 
fipont ;  but  the  hill,  which  descends  gradually  to  the  brook, 
looks  so  natural  and  pretty  as  it  is,  that  it  would  be  a 
pity  to  make  it  level :  and  so  we  determine  to  keep  it  a 
lawn,  and  to  have  sheep; 

The  following  lines  will  explain  the  saying  of  **  St.  Pav^B  DayP 

"  If  Saint  Paul's  day  be  fidr  and  clear 
It  does  betide  a  happy  year ; 
But  if  it  chance  to  snow  or  rain. 
Then  will  be  dear  all  kinds  of  grain : 
If  clouds  or  mists  do  dark  the'sky 
Great  store  of  birds  and  beasts  shall  die  ; 
And  if  the  winds  do  fly  aloft. 
Then  wars  shall  vex  the  kingdom  oft." 
"  These  prognostications  are  Englished  fi:om  an  ancient  Calendar ; 
they  have  likewise  been  translated  by  Gay,  who  enjoins : 
Let  no  such  vulgar  tales  debase  thy  mind, 
Nor  Paul  nor  Swithin  rule  the  clouds  and  wind." 


VOL.  II. 


2£ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


418  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mn,  Dda/ny  to  Mrs.  Detoes, 

Delville,  1  Feb.  1745-6. 

We  have  lately  had  very  sharp  weather,  frost  and  some 
snow ;  but  the  san  has  shone  between  whiles,  and  the 
verdure  of  our  fields  gives  a  cheerfiilness  to  our  prospects 
in  the  midst  of  winter  that  I  never  saw  in  any  other 
place.  The  spring  appears  in  my  flower-garden,  but  I 
am  afraid  the  frosty  mornings  will  nip  the  forward 
things.  I  am  less  concerned  at  any  defect  that  may  hap- 
pen there  this  year,  as  I  hope  to  spend  the  blooming 
season  in  England.  D.D.  and  I  talk  every  day  of  our 
intended  journey  ;  when  he  sees  me  in  a  sighing  way, 
he  then  as  a  cordial  begins  upon  that  subject,  and  it 
never  fails  answering  his  kind  intention. 

Last  Monday  we  dined  at  Mrs.  Frank  Hamilton's ;  the 
Bishop  of  Clogher's  people  were  there  and  Miss  Forth ;  on 
Tuesday  we  dined  at  Dr.  Clarke's  in  the  College,  and  met 
Mrs.  Forde's  family ;  and  on  Wednesday  we  dined  at  Mr. 
Bayley's,  our  neighbour  at  HoUy  Mount.  Three  days 
together  spent  abroad  is  being  a  downright  rake,  but  the 
sobriety  of  my  own  dwelling  is  much  pleasanter  to  me  than 
all  the  flirtations  of  the  world ;  though  the  society  of  it  I 
will  always  keep  up  to  the  best  of  my  power,  as  it  is  a 
duty  incumbent  on  us  to  live  sociably,  and  it  is  necessary 
to  keep  up  good  humour  and  benevolence  in  ourselves,  or 
the  qualities  of  the  heart  contract  and  grow  useless,  as  our 
limbs  would  do  without  any  proper  exercise.  On  Thursday 
we  kept  home  and  fast ;  the  Dean,  his  niece,  and  the  ser- 
vants went  to  church  ;  I  had  a  little  cold,  and  had  Bushe, 
and  we  staid  at  home.  I  have  repeated  more  that  once  how 
happy  I  am  in  her  company ;  she  is  in  very  good  health 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  419 

and  spirits,  and  at  this  instant  is  singing  most  melo- 
diously. 

We  have  had  some  news  by  way  of  Belfast  that  is  by 
no  means  satisfactory.  If  what  is  told  us  of  Gen.  Hawley  ^ 
be  true  he  is  as  worthy  an  officer  ss  Cope,  and  we  are 
very  unfortunate  in  our  generals.  The  History  of  the 
Admirals  is  very  entertaining.  The  Dean  has  given  me 
a  charming  book  of  prints  after  Eaphael ;  they  were 
designed  for  the  History  of  the  Bible,  engraved  (etched  I 
should  say)  by  a  famous  Italian.  When  shall  I  be  so  happy 
as  to  show  you  all  my  pretty  things  ?  I  want  that  part  to 
give  me  a  perfect  relish  to  them,  but  that  I  fear  is  a  great 
way  off  You  have  a  young  charge  that  will  not  for  some 
time  permit  you  to  bestow  that  happiness,  but  my  bro- 
ther, I  hope,  who  has  neither  vnfe  nor  children  to  confine 
himy  will  not  refuse  me  a  joy  that  he  can  so  easily 
confer,  and  I  hope  before  the  month  of  May  expires  I 
shall  make  my  demand  in  person.  My  fingers  ache  with 
cold,  and  were  not  my  heart  very  warm  I  could  not  have 
held  my  pen  so  long. 


'  Lieut.-General  Henry  Hawley,  Governor  of  Portsmouth,  and  Colonel  of  the 
Royal  Regiment  of  Dragoons,  died  unmarried  at  his  place  near  Portsmouth, 
24th  March,  1759,  aged  80.  In  his  extraordinary  will  he  directed  that  "as 
there  was  now  a  peace  and  he  might  die  in  the  common  way,  his  carcase  might 
be  put  anywhere ;  that  there  was  to  be  no  more  expense  than  if  a  poor  soldier 
was  to  be  buried  from  the  hospital ;  "  that  the  priest  was  to  have  the  fee,  and 
the  carpenter  to  be  paid  for  the  carcase  box."  Lord  Mahon  says  he  was  an 
ofiQoer  of  some  experience,  but  destitute  of  capacity,  and  hated  by  his  own 
soldiers  as  well  as  his  enemies  for  his  violent  and  vindictive  temper.  He  had 
two  gibbets  erected  in  Edinburgh  for  the  rebels  who  might  fall  into  his  hands, 
and  several  executioners  to  attend  his  march. 


2£2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


420  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,  8  Feb.  1745-6. 

Last  week  was  a  rich  week.     I  had  a  letter^  from  otir 
Duchess,  one  from  Donnellan,  and  one  from  Sally.     No 
miser  ever  view'd  his  treasure  with  half  the  delight  that  I 
read  over  my  letters ;  they  are  my  cordials  when  my  spirits 
droop, — a  specific  against  spleen ;   it  is  well  for  me  that 
the  Dean  so  well  xmderstands  and  feels  the  little  cares  and 
anxiety  that  belong  to  affection,  otherwise  I  should  some- 
times try  his  patience  ;  but  he  is  so  far  from  condemning 
me  that  he  is  ready  to  join  with  me  in  every  mark  and  testi- 
mony of  love  to  my  friends.    Tour  first  letter  (of  the  3rd 
last)  was  dated  14  December,  meaning  I  suppose  January, 
with  an  account  of  the  Foleys  passing  through  Glou- 
cester.   I  have  had  a  letter  from  Miss  Gr.  since  her  arrival 
at  Windsor.    She  expresses  great  pleasure  in  having  seen 
you,  and  gives  me  a  very  particular  account  of  your  looks 
and  of  little  Court ;  she  says  he  is  the  most  entertaining 
child  she  ever  met  with,  and  -oery  like  you  in  his  manners. 
When  I  read  that  part  of  her  letter  I  cried  out,  "  Dear 
little  rogue  /"  to  the  surprize  of  the  company,  who  were 
very  civil  and  silent  whilst  I  was  reading  my  letter,  and 
much  diverted  at  my  sudden  exclamation.     I  hope  this 
will  find  my  brother  still  with  you.    I  am  sure  you  are 
happy  together,  and  I  share  it  at  this  distance;  I  am 
vexed  I  should  have  sent  my  brother's  linen  unmade, 
but  as  I  wrote  to  him  above  three  months  ago  for  his 
directions  and  received   none,   I    concluded   he   would 
rather  have  them  made  in  England.     If  you  have  another 
boy  I  fancy  you  will  call  it  Bevil,  if  Mr.  Dewes  has  no 
particular  inclination  to  some  other  name. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  421 

Mr.  Barber  will  copy  Lady  Stanley's  picture  ^  according 
to  my  brother's  orders.  I  suppose  he  remembers  both  the 
hands  are  in.  The  Cupid  will  not  do  by  any  means,  as  it 
will  look  but  like  a  little  fly,  so  reduced.  We  are  greatly 
impatient  to  hear  from  Scotland.  I  heartily  wish  the 
Duke  of  Cumberland  may  put  a  final  period  to  the 
rebellion,  but  it  is  impossible  not  to  be  anxious,  for  the 
hazard  he  runs  in  heading  an  army  that  has  behaved 
themselves  so  ill.  His  presence  and  conduct  I  hope  may 
animate  them  with  a  martial  spirit ;  the  men  seldom  fail 
when  the  leader  is  an  hero.  The  Duchess  of  Portland  says 
nothing  of  Lord  and  Lady  Andover ;  ^  so  I  fancy  the  re- 
port of  their  parting  may  be  felse:  I  wish  it  were 
true,  for  he  is  unworthy  of  her  goodness. 

Your  last  letter  was  dated  27  th  January,  and  came  to 
me  in  seven  days.  Could  our  letters  always  make  as  swift  a 
passage,  it  would  be  charming.  I  am  glad  to  find  there 
is  so  sociable  a  spirit  in  Gloucester.  See  what  it  is  to  have 
(m  agreeable  man  amongst  you  1 

I  hope  before  May,  peace  may  he  within  our  walk^  but 
if  the  commotions  of  war  are  confined  to  Scotland,  our  seas 
between  Dublin  and  Chester  will  be  safe  enough,  and  I 
don't  at  present  apprehend  there  will  be  any  reason  to  defer 
our  journey.     Yesterday  I  went  to  the  Castle  to  pay  my 


*  Lady  Stanley's  picture  was  painted  by  James  Honseman,  or  Huysman, 
bom  at  Antwerp  in  1656,  and  died  in  London,  1696.  Houseman  painted  both 
history  and  portraits,  in  which  last  he  was  a  successful  rival  of  Lely ;  and 
among  the  beauties  at  Windsor  is  the  portrait  of  a  lady  equal  to  Lely's. 
Houseman  also  painted  the  altar-piece  in  the  Queen's  Chapel  at  St.  James's. 
He  excelled  in  tiie  representation  of  Cupids. 

*  Mary,  second  daughter  of  Hencage,  2nd  Earl  of  Aylesford,  married  Wil- 
liam Lord  Andover,  son  of  the  4th  Earl  of  Berkshire  and  11th  Earl  of 
Suffolk. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


422  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

compliments  to  Lady  Chesterfield,  who  has  had  a  very 
long  confinement  with  St.Anthony's  fire  ;  she  looks  very 
ill.  I  was  dressed  in  my  Birthday  poplin,  and  looked 
very  fine.  To-morrow  we  are  to  have  a  houseful  of  our 
northern  neighhours,  and  on  Monday  we  dine  at  the 
Bishop  of  Clogher's.  Mrs.  Clayton  is  to  have  a  drum  in 
the  evening  and  we  are  invited  to  it.  Their  house  is  very 
proper  for  such  an  entertainment,  and  Mrs.  Clayton  very 
fit  for  the  undertaking.  She  loves  the  show  and  homage 
of  a  rout,  has  a  very  good  address  and  is  still  as  well 
inclined  to  aU  the  gaieties  of  life  as  she  was  at  five-and- 
twenty ;  the  Bishop  loves  to  please  and  indulge  her,  and 
is  himself  no  way  averse  to  the  magnificence  of  life. 

The  agreeable  and  ingenious  Letty  sends  her  very  kind 
wishes  and  humble  service  to  you.  I  shall  have  a  great 
deal  of  her  handywork  to  show  you ;  she  is  so  good  as 
to  draw  almost  every  day  for  me,  and  has  inspired  me 
with  landscape-drawing  out  of  my  own  pate;  I  have 
invented  three  which  the  Dean  is  very  fond  of. 


Mrs.  Ddcmy  to  Mrs.  Detves, 

Delville,13tH  Feb.  1745-6. 

The  Dean  has  subscribed  to  some  philosophical  lec- 
tures, and  they  are  to  be  three  times  a  week  for  six 
weeks,  which  with  my  other  employments  will  fill  up  my 
time  pretty  well ;  but  no  occupation  shaD  interfere  with 
my  devoirs  to  my  absent  Mends.  I  dedicate  a  certain 
portion  of  my  time  to  them,  and  make  my  other  engage- 
ments as  much  as  possible  subservient  to  that. 

I  don  t  wonder  my  brother  is  a  favourite  at  Gloucester. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  423 

He  is  so  sociable  in  his  disposition,  that  it  makes  him 
an  acceptable  companion,  and  I  own  his  having  been  so 
long  there  has  been  a  vast  comfort  to  me,  as  I  know 
how  great  a  satisfaction  it  must  have  been  to  you  and 
my  mother.  I  am  mightily  pleased  with  your  account  of 
Master  Jemmy  Viney,  I  hope  he  will  be  a  blessing  to 
his  mother. 

I  don't  wonder  at  the  reports  at  Gloucester  about  our 
tmdaw  friend ;  I  shall  have  a  joke  or  two  with  her,  by 
way  of  payment ;"  pray  tell  her  that,  with  my  very  kind 
service  to  her  and  her  family :  and  when  you  write  to 
Sally  let  her  know  that  my  Lord  North,  at  my  request, 
has  written  a  letter  to  Mr.  Trelawney,  the  Governor, 
to  recommend  Mr.  Harry  Chapon,  which  I  hope  may 
prove  of  great  service  to  him,  and  he  should  be  advised 
to  wait  on  the  Governor  as  soon  as  possible;  I  think 
to  write  a  letter  to  him  that  he  may  show  the  Governor 
to  testify  his  being  the  person  recommended.  Last 
Monday  I  was  at  Mrs.  Clayton's  drum,  which  was  vert/ 
magnifjcent  i  her  apartment  is  very  fine,  and  she  had  a 
great  deal  of  good  company.  D.D.,  Bushe,  and  I  dined 
there,  and  staid  till  near  nine.  To-morrow  I  go  to  the 
Fair  Penitent  *  to  see  our  three  famous  actors  together. 
Garrick'  performs  the  part  of  Lothario,  Sheridan*  Ho- 

*The  Fair  Penitent,  a  tragedy  by  Nioolaa  Bowe.  He  was  bom  1673,  and 
died  1718. 

«  David  Garrick,  bom  28th  Febraary,  1716,  died  20th  January,  1779.  He 
twice  visited  Ireland.  A  short  poem  in  his  praise,  called  '*  The  Stage,"  is  dated 
Dublin,  14th  February,  1746,  and  printed  in  the  QentUmatCs  Magazine. 

>  Thomas,  third  son  of  Dr.  Thomas  Sheridan,  was  lx)m  at  Quilca,  near 
Dublin,  in  1721.  He  was  educated  at  Westminster  School,  and  Trinity  Col- 
lege, Dublin ;  which  university  he  suddenly  quitted,  after  having  graduated 
MJ!L.,and  turned  actor,  in  which  profession  he  obtained  some  celebrity.  He 
died  14th  of  August,  1788.  He  was  the  father  of  the  celebrated  Richard 
Brinsley  Sheridan. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


424  LIFE  AND  GOBRESFONDENGE 

ratio,  and  Barry^  Altamont.  Sheridan  I  have  not  seen,  my 
brother  has ;  he  is  here  in  great  reputation.  Barry  is 
the  handsomest  man  and  figure  altogether  that  ever  I  saw 
upon  the  stage,  and  a  promising  actor.  The  ingenious 
Letty  and  Mrs.  Green  go  with  me.  Next  week  Esth^ 
is  to  be  performed;  tbe  rehearsal  will  be  on  Tuesday. 
To-day  we  dine  at  Lord  Grandison's,  and  a  strange  gibbk 
gabble  woman  has  plagued  me  all  the  morning ;  I  never 
was  more  nearly  provoked  to  be  rude  in  all  my  life.  I 
crammed  her  with  chocolate  and  plum-cake,  and  then 
sent  her  packing,  but  she  has  robbed  me  of  what  is  not 
in  her  power  to  restore — a  good  hour  of  my  time. 

Have  you  heard  anything  lately  of  Sir  T.  Hanmer  ?  it 


1  Barry  was  the  son  of  a  sUTemniih,  and  bom  in  St  Waibai]^'B  puuh, 
Dablin,  on  the  20th  of  Febraary,  1719.  He  determined  to  try  his  suooess 
on  the  stage,  and  accordingly  in  1744  he  made  his  debiit  on  the  Irish  boards, 
in  the  character  of  Othello.  He  afterwards  played  at  Cork  with  equal  ap- 
plause, and  thence  returning  to  Dublin,  made  one  of  that  galaxy  of  talent 
which  drew  such  full  houses  in  the  summer,  that  it  was  very  common  to  say, 
that  a  person  had  died  of  a  Qnitick^  a  Qutn,  ar  a  Barry  fever.  In  1746,  he 
came  to  London,  and  was  engaged  at  Drury-lane,  where  he  performed  both  in 
tragedy  and  genteel  comedy  with  much  approbation.  After  having  for  some 
time  divided  the  applause  of  the  town  with  Garrick,  Barry  removed  to  Govent 
Garden,  in  1749 ;  when  a  decided  competition  took  place  between  the  two  great 
actors,  each  playing  against  the  other  their  principal  characters  with  various 
success.  The  grand  struggle  made  by  both,  was  in  the  part  of  Romeo,  in  which 
the  majority  agreed  in  awarding  the  pakn  to  Barry.  He  died  Jan.  10, 1777. 
The  admirers  of  Garrick  were  in  the  habit  of  allowing  Barry  every  physical  and 
denying  him  every  mental  qualification.  They  sneered  at  him  as  "  the  eUvtr- 
toned  lover/*  **  the  elegant  automatotiy*  &c.,  but  there  is  no  doubt,  "  in  the  softer 
scenes  of  dramatic  woe,  conjugal  tenderness,  and  agonizing  distress,  Barry  was 
Garrick's  master."  Victor  in  his  History  of  Theatres,  (1761,)  states  that,  on 
January  20, 1745-6,  he  went  over  to  Irehmd,  and  when  he  arrived  in  Dublin  he 
found  "  his  good  friend  Mr.  Garrick  '*  at  the  Theatre  Royal,  with  Mr.  Sheridan 
as  sharers  and  adventurers,  and  Mr.  Barry  engaged  at  a  salary  by  the  proprietora 
There  were  several  tragedies,  in  which  Victor  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  tiiese 
three  performers  appear  together,  as  in  the  Fair  Penitent,  Garrick  acted 
Lothario,  Sheridan  Horatio,  and  Barry  Altamont ;  and  he  adds  his  belief  **  that 
he  was  much  envied  that  happiness.** 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DBLANT.  425 

is  reported  here  that  he  is  dead,  and  it  has  stopped  D.D/s 
writing  to  him  till  he  knows  whether  the  report  be  true 
or  false.  Yesterday  after  prayers,  it  being  very  bright 
and  a  diy  hard  frost,  the  Dean  and  I  walked  to  see  Mrs. 
Barber,  a  good  mile  from  hence ;  the  wind  was  in  our 
back  aad  very  pleasant,  but  we  did  not  wish  to /ace  so 
keen  an  enemy,  and  returned  in  the  chariot. 

I  am  much  obliged  to  my  oowrth/  nephew  for  remem- 
bering '*Aunt  Ddomyy 


Mn.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  28  Feb.,  1745-6. 

I  am  more  obliged  to  my  friends  at  Gloucester  than  I 
can  express  for  the  good  news  they  have  constantly  sent 
me  of  my  dearest  sister's  being  so  well,  and  as  little  can 
I  express  how  happy  and  thankftd  it  makes  me.  I  have 
this  moment  received  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Viney,  dated  the 
19th  instant  (which  I  think  was  your  ninth  day);  she 
teDs  me  you  are  better  than  you  have  ever  been  yet,  and 
that  my  niece^  eats  paps  purely.  It  will  save  some 
trouble  if  you  can  bring  her  up  by  hand,  and  since  she  is 
naturally  so  stout  I  believe  it  may  perhaps  be  done. 

I  gave  you  or  my  mother  an  account  of  my  being 
engaged  in  philosophy,  besides  which  I  have  three  oil  pic- 
tures in  hand.  I  am  copying  an  angel  for  the  Dean  after 
a  Guido,  finishing  a  half-length  of  the  famous  Duchess  of 
Mazarin  for  Miss  Bushe,  and  must  give  my  mother's 
picture  {I  have  copied  for  you)  another  painting,  it  does 
not  content  me.     I  am  extremely  pleased  with  the  phi* 


1  Mary  Dewes,  only  daughter  of  Ann  Granville,  Mrs.  De%ve8. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


426  LIFE  AND  OOERESPONDENCE 

losophy  lectares»  but  am  cruelly  disappointed.  I  hoped 
to  have  been  made  a  very  unse  woman  by  them,  but  alas! 
they  only  serve  to  show  me  my  own  ignorance.  I  am 
surprized  that  knowledge  should  make  anybody  vain ;  I 
think  it  rather  serves  to  humble  the  mind,  since  to  those 
who  have  drank  deepest  of  the  draught  of  knowledge 
there  must  remain  so  many  things  unaccountable.  I 
went  to  school  this  morning  and  had  not  time  to  write 
till  this  moment,  and  it  is  now  six  o'clock. 

The  Bishop  of  Clogher  and  his  family,  and  Mrs.  For- 
tescue  and  her  sister,  dine  here.  Last  Tuesday  I  went 
to  the  Castle  to  present  Mrs.  Green.  I  was  there  morn- 
ing and  evening.  It  was  ball-night,  and  I  was  heartily 
tired  before  I  came  away.  Lady  Chesterfield  is  to  have 
music  once  a  week ;  nobody  invitedj  but  those  that  used 
to  go  on  the  private  evenings  may  go :  I  have  had  a  hint 
given  me  to  go  the  first  night,  which  will  be  to-mor- 
row I  believe. 

Pray  have  you  heard  anything  of  Will  Cull  since  he 
left  us  ?  I  am  much  afraid  he  is  gone  astray.  I  charged 
him  to  go  directly  to  Gloucester,  but  as  you  have  not 
mentioned  him  in  any  of  your  letters  I  suppose  he  has 
taken  some  other  road.  I  have  had  the  good  fortune  (I 
hope)  to  provide  for  a  brother  of  my  poor  George's,  a  very 
ingenious  clever  young  man ;  as  the  Bishop  of  Clogher 
has  lately  lost  his  gentleman,  and  npon  my  recommen- 
dation has  taken  Mr.  George,  who  will  have  a  very 
happy  life,  for  they  are  very  good  to  all  their  family,  and 
it  is  a  profitable  place. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  427 

Mrs.  Ddcmy  to  Mrs,  Detves. 

Delville,  8  March,  1745-6. 

I  thought  my  joy  was  full  on  my  clearest  sister's  ac- 
count, and  that  it  could  not  rise  higher,  having  been  so 
constantly  and  kindly  informed  by  my  good  and  obliging 
friends  at  Gloucester  of  your  being  as  well  as  I  could 
wish ;  but  when  I  received  my  dear  mama's  letter  yester* 
day  with  your  own  nine  precious  lines  in  it,  I  found  a 
new  joy  spring  up  in  my  heart,  for  which  I  give  you  ten 
thousand  thanks :  though  another  line  would  have  con- 
verted my  pleasure  into  pain,  lest  the  writing  of  it  might 
have  proved  prejudicial  to  you. 

I  am  very  glad  my  niece  Mary  takes  so  well  to  her 
food :  I  don't  see  why  it  should  not  rear  her  up  as  it  did 
me :  I  wou'd  have  her  like  me  in  every  thing  that  is 
worthy  of  your  regard,  but  to  endear  her  equally  to  me, 
I  wish  most  heartily  she  may  resemble  my  own  dearest 
sister.  Tou  remember  Madame  de  Sevigne :  Mary  must  be 
my  Pauline. 

After  a  silence  of  many  months,  and  receiving  two 
very  kind  and  entertaining  letters  from  Mrs..  Buncombe, 
I  have  this  day  wrote  to  her.  I  gave  you  an  account 
of  my  morning  employments,  and  how  busy  I  am. 
The  philosophical  lectures  please  me  extremely :  I  have 
gone  through  nine.  On  Monday  next  it  is  to  be  on 
optics ;  which  I  am  told  is  the  mdst  entertaining  of  all. 
I^Bwt  Wednesday  the  Dean  and  I  were  invited  to  the 
Bishop  of  Clogher's  to  a  musical  entertainment,  made  for 
my  Lord  and  Lady  Chesterfield ;  no  ladies  were  invited 
but  performers — Lady  Freak,  *  Miss  Maxwell,  and  your 

>  Sir  John  Kedmond  Freke,  Bart.,  married  Miss  Brodrick.  He  died  13th 
April,  1764,  when  the  title  became  extinct. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


428  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

humble  servant,  but  I  was  excused;  the  other  ladies 
played  and  sung  extremely  well.  Lady  Freak  has  a  great 
hand  and  genius  for  music,  but  has  had  few  advantages 
in  learning ;  Miss  Maxwell  has  been  very  well  taught.  Mr. 
Dubourg  played  the  first  fiddle,  and  played  better  than 
ever  I  heard  him :  the  concert  was  very  agreeable,  and 
everything  ordered  well  and  handsomely.  Lady  Ches- 
terfield says  she  never  heard  so  good  a  performer  as 
Dubourg. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Oranville, 

DelvUle^  15  March,  1745-6. 

Madam, 

I  am  under  the  highest  obligation  to  you  for  your 
goodness  in  giving  me  so  particular  an  account  of  my 
sister ;  I  thank  God  most  heartily  that  she  is  so  well,  and 
congratulate  you  again  and  again  on  the  blessed  occasion. 
I  could  with  great  pleasure  to  myself  address  a  long 
letter  to  you,  dearest  madam,  as  conversing  with  you  every 
way  is  a  most  particular  pleasure  to  me ;  but  as  writing 
is  troublesome  to  you,  I  wiU  not  load  you  with  a  letter 
to  answer,  but  go  on  to  thank  my  dearest  sister  for 
her  most  deUghtfiil  lines  in  your  last  letter,  dated  the  2nd 
inst. ;  first  assuring  you  of  the  Dean's  humble  duty,  and 
that  I  am  with  the  tenderest  affection,  dearest  madam, 
Tour  most  dutiful  daughter, 

and  most  obedient  humble  servant, 

M.  Delany. 

To  Mrs,  Dewes^  in  same  letter. 

Now  my  dear  sister  for  you.  Notwithstanding  the  bad 
weather,  we  have  gone  every  other  morning  to  the  philo- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  429 

Rophical  lectures,  which  have  entertained  me  extremely  : 
next  Monday  will  be  our  last.  I  have  not  been  at  the 
Castle  a  great  while.  I  think  I  wrote  Mrs.  Buncombe 
word  of  a  concert  of  music  we  had  at  the  Bishop  of 
Clogher  s,  for  the  entertainment  of  my  Lord  and  Lady 
Chesterfield,  which  was  very  agreeable.  Last  Tuesday 
Mr.  Bristowe,  an  uncle  of  Miss  Dashwood's,  dined  here ; 
he  is  a  great  virtuoso,  understands  all  the  virtits  to  per- 
fection ;  he  is  much  delighted  with  Delville.  Mr.  Barber 
has  just  finished  another  picture  of  me  in  enamel,  which 
Mr.  Bristowe  says,  is  better  done  than  any  he  ever  saw 
of  Zincke's,  indeed  I  think  it  very  finely  enamelled;  and 
I  hope  it  will  bring  him  into  good  business.  Lord  Mas- 
sareen  *  sits  to  him  on  Monday,  and  Mr.  Bristowe  has 
promised  to  prevail,  if  possible,  with  Lord  and  Lady 
Chesterfield  to  sit  to  him,  and  that  will  bring  him  into 
fashion  ;  he  is  very  industrious,  and  deserves  to  be  encou- 
raged ;  his  wife  is  a  very  pretty  prudent  yoimg  woman  : 
they  have  a  comical  little  girl  of  three  years  old,  not 
pretty,  but  a  smart  girl,  and  he  proposes  to  make  her  a 
mistress  of  his  art,  as  soon  as  she  is  capable  of  learning. 
This  is  the  Dean's  birthday,  and  I  expect  a  good  deal  of 
company.  What  say  you  in  your  part  of  the  world  of 
public  affairs?  I  think  the  rebels  threaten  to  teaze  us 
some  time  longer;  if  good  weather  comes  I  hope  the  Duke 
will  be  able  to  deal  with  them  as  they  deserve. 


*  Clotworthy,  5th  Viscount  Massareene,  who  was  created,  in  July,  1756,  Earl 
of  Massareene.  He  married,  first,  in  March,  1738,  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of 
Richard  Daniel,  Dean  of  Down ;  who  died  27th  March,  1740,  and  he  married, 
secondly,  25th  November,  1741,  Elizabeth,  only  daughter  of  Henry  Eyre,  Esq., 
by  whom  he  had  several  children. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


430  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  22  March,  1745-6. 

I  am  very  sorry  that  my  brother  has  been  so  subject  to 
colds  this  winter.  I  had  a  letter  from  him  by  the  last 
packet.  I  want  to  know  if  he  expects  us  at  Calwich  for 
our  first  resting-place,  that  loas  the  scheme  of  last  year,  but 
if  his  afiairs  call  him  to  London  this  spring,  it  may  not 
be  convenient  to  him  to  return  so  soon  as  the  middle  of 
May,  which  is  the  time  we  hope  to  be  able  to  leave  this 
place:  I  have  written  to  him  to-day  to  know.  I  am  willing 
to  settle  our  route  as  nearly  as  I  can  soon,  not  to  leave  it 
till  the  last  moment,  as  I.shall  have  a  great  deal  of  business 
on  my  hands ;  for  I  must  see  all  my  fine  furniture  and 
pictures  well  papered,  and  I  have  a  new  inventory  to 
make  of  my  household  goods,  and  two  drawers  of  papers 
to  look  over  and  separate  in  order.  I  hope  my  house- 
keeper is  one  I  can  trust ;  she  is  a  sober  woman  and  does 
everything  required  of  her  extremely  well,  and  I  shall 
take  Betty  Woodal  and  Margaret  with  me. 

We  have  met  with  a  sad  disappointment  in  our  coach  ; 
when  it  came  home  it  was  so  httle,  and  such  indifferent 
work,  we  could  not  keep  it.  We  have  bespoke  another, 
and  hope  it  will  be  finished  by  the  time  we  want  it.  We 
have  bespoke  it  with  the  top  like  a  landau,  for  lightness, 
but  every  other  way  a  coach. 

I  rejoice  that  my  little  girl  thrives  so  well.  I  am 
sorry  her  nurse  can't  stay  with  her ;  I  should  think  it 
would  be  better  for  you  to  take  the  child  home  with  you 
now,  for  you  have  room  enough  at  Welsbourne.  I  am 
a&aid  the  cold  weather  has  affected  my  mother :  it  has 
been  extremely  sharp,  but  now,  thank  God  I  it  is  very 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  431 

fine,  and  I  have  begun  my  morning  walks.  I  was  two 
hours  (almost)  in  the  garden  this  morning  before  break- 
fast. The  sweetness  of  the  air,  the  singing  of  the  birds, 
and  the  charming  prospect  made  it  appear  like  an  en- 
chanted place,  after  having  been  buried  in  snow  and 
chilled  with  nipping  frost  for  a  fortnight  together :  we 
have  had  about  a  week  of  good  weather. 

I  beg  my  dearest  sister  will  not  alarm  herself  about 
our  voyage,  for  I  hope  in  God  before  our  day  of  leaving 
this  place  the  rebels  will  be  beat  off  the  field.  We  design 
taking  the  Government  yacht,  which  is  a  very  safe 
pretty  vessel,  the  captain  a  skilful  sailor,  and  supplied 
with  many  hands  The  Castle  folks  talk  of  going  the 
middle  or  end  of  next  month,  so  I  hope  they  wiU  not 
interfere  with  our  schemes.  I  am  very  sorry  Captain  Cole 
is  dead ;  I  am  a&aid  he  wiU  be  a  loss  to  his  family,  for  I 
think  he  had  some  place  or  pension :  the  Duchess  did  not 
name  it  to  me,  I  suppose  she  thought  she  had.  I  heard 
from  her  by  the  last  packet.  I  want  to  know  how  Sir 
Tony  behaved  amongst  you ;  did  he  make  you  a  long 
visit?  I  sent  to  enquire  after  his  health  in  London, 
he  was  gone  to  Bath.  I  am  glad  Lady  G.  Spencer^  behaved 
herself  so  obligingly  to  Mr.  Dewes. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delvillc,  29  March,  1746. 

My  little  ''Pauline''  is  (though  unknown)  a  great 
favourite  already,  and  you  may  command  every  thing  from 
me  that  can  be  of  service  to  her,  but  you  are  so  well 
furnished  with  materials  to  make  her  a  complete  valuable 


Lady  Georgiana  Spencer,  daughter  of  Lord  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


432  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCE 

woman,  that  you  will  waat  no  foreign  aid;  however,  I 
hope  we  shall  lay  our  wise  heads  together  about  her  many 
and  many  an  hour :  in  the  mean  time  feed  her  and  danoe 
her  well,  for  that  is  all  can  be  attended  to  at  present.  You 
say  you  "  wish  her  at  Longford ;"  I  did  not  know  you 
meant  to  send  her  there. 

On  Monday  the  Dean  goes  to  my  L^  Lieut^  to  ask  leave 
for  the  yacht  to  carry  us  over ;  we  camiot  have  it  till  the 
middle  of  May.  The  Dean  had  a  letter  from  his  steward 
in  the  country  yesterday,  who  was  to  have  come  to  settle 
accounts  the  first  week  in  May,  but  he  cannot  come  till 
towards  the  latter  end.  D.D.  is  very  good,  and  takes 
all  the  pains  he  can  to  be  at  liberty  as  soon  as  possible ; 
indeed  he  loses  no  opportunity  of  indulging  every  wish 
of  my  heart.  Our  garden  is  now  a  wilderness  of  sweets. 
The  violets,  sweet  briar,  and  primroses  perfume  the  air, 
and  the  thrushes  are  full  of  melody  and  make  our  concert 
complete.  It  is  the  pleasantest  music  I  have  heard  this 
year,  and  refreshes  my  spirits  without  the  alloy  of  a 
tumultuous  crowd,  which  attends  aU  the  other  concerts. 
Two  robins  and  one  chaffinch  fed  off  of  D.D.'s  hand  as  we 
walked  together  this  morning.  I  have  been  planting 
sweets  in  my  "Pearly  Bower" — ^honeysuckles,  sweet 
briar,  roses  and  jessamine  to  climb  up  the  trees  that  com- 
pose it,  and  for  the  carpet,  violets,  primroses  and  cowlips. 
This  year  I  shall  not  smell  their  fragrancy,  nor  see  their 
bloom,  but  I  shall  see  the  dear  person  to  whom  the  bower 
is  dedicated,  I  hope,  and  I  think  I  shall  not  repine  at  the 
exchange.  To  check  my  joy  when  I  think  of  our  meeting, 
the  odious  rebels  come  across  my  mind.  What  say  you 
of  them  in  England  ?  I  pray  God  keep  us  from  a  civil 
war !  1/  we  can  keep  them  in  Scotland^  that  is  from  setting 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  433 

foot  on  Engtish  ground,  I  don't  apprehend  they  will  spoil 
our  scheme  for  going  to  Englafld  this  year.  The  bell  is 
just  going  to  ring,  and  I  must  make  myself  ready  for 
church. 


Mrs,  DeUmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  5  April,  1746. 

I  am  most  truly  thankful  that  you  are  so  well,  and 
have  a  little  female  infant  to  exercise  your  own  good  judg*- 
ment  on  ;  which  wiU  want  little  assistance,  for  I  think  you 
are  guarded  against  the  errors  oii  mistaken  fondness  towards 
your  children.  I  thank  you  for  the  right  you  have  given 
me  over  my  **  Pauline.'' 

I  am  very  glad  you  like  the  poplin,  and  the  Dean  is 
very  proud  my  mother  approves  of  hers.  I  have  got  one 
for  Mrs.  Viney  and  for  each  of  her  daughters,  which  I 
will  send  to  England  by  the  first  opportunity.  I  desire 
their  directions,  who  they  shall  be  consigned  to.  T  can't 
undertake  to  bring  them  as  they  are  prohibited,  but  a 
person  skilled  in  those  affairs  has  undertaken  the  care 
of  them. 

Last  Tuesday  the  Dean  went  to  the  Castle  to  ask  leave 
for  the  yacht  to  carry  us  over,  which  is  granted.  My  Lord 
Lieutenant  goes  from  hence  on  the  15th,  when  the  yacht 
returns.  Lady  Pendregast  ^  has  the  first  promise  and  we 
the  second ;  so  that  supposing  the  wind  should  be  as  fair  as 
our  wishes,  we  shall  not  be  able  to  leave  Lreland  sooner 
than  the  middle  of  May,  at  which  time,  please  God,  we 


'  Anne,  daughter  and  heir  of   Sir  Griffith  Williams,  Bart.,  married  Sir 
Tbxnaa  Prendergast. 

VOL.  II.  2  P 


Digitized  by 


Google 


434  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

shall  set  sail  for  England  -.  oh  how  my  heart  leaps !  I 
had  a  letter  last  post  front  my  brother ;  he  says  he  is  soon 
to  go  to  London,  and  will  return  and  meet  us  at  Calwich 
whatever  time  we  name.  K  it  would  be  more  convenient 
to  him  for  us  to  meet  at  Welsboume,  I  believe  you  would 
not  object  to  it ;  but  if  it  is  to  be  at  Calwich,  my  dearest 
sister,  will  you  not  be  there  ?  how  can  I  bear  to  hve  on 
English  ground,  within  a  few  miles  in  comparison  of  our 
present  distance,  andnot  see  you?  We  design  bring- 
ing over  with  us  a  light  four-wheeled  chaise  we  have, 
besides  our  coach,  that  when  we  have  a  mind  to  make 
any  little  excursion,  it  may  be  ready.  We  have  some 
thoughts  of  taking  a  flight  for  a  fortnight  to  London 
before  winter. 

Yesterday  I  was  put  into  a  sad  fuss  by  my  housekeeper 
being  taken  very  ill ;  she  is  fat  and  short-necked,  and 
complained  so  violently  of  her  head  that  I  feared  an 
apoplexy ;  but  Dr.  Barber  had  her  bled  and  vomited  im- 
mediately, and  she  is  now  in  a  fair  way  of  doing  well. 
She  would  have  been  a  great  loss  to  me,  as  she  is  I  think 
an  excellent  servant,  and  one  that  I  may  trust  with  the 
care  of  my  house  in  my  absence. 

Lady  Betty  Mason  is  made  Viscountess  Grandison  in 
her  own  right ;  they  all  dine  here  on  Monday. 


Mrs,  DeUvny  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,  11  April,  1746-6. 

I  proposed  indulging  myself  with  a  long  letter  to  my 
dearest  sister  this  morning,  and  lo !  I  am  reduced  to  one 
quarter  of  an  hour :  how  provoking !  Now  everybody  is 
going  out  of  town,  the  sun  shines,  and  they  come  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  435 

swarms  to  take  leave  and  hask  in  our  sunshine,  which 
the  smoke  of  Dublin  will  not  allow  of.  I  was  last  night 
the  greatest  of  rakes ;  went  to  take  my  leave  at  the 
Castle,  was  crowded  to  pieces ;  did  not  come  home  till 
twelve  o'clock,  fatigued  to  death ;  slept  well  and  refreshed 
myself  with  walking  half  an  hour  after  breakfast ;  then 
came  in,  prepared  all  my  materials  for  a  folio  sheet,  and 
was  no  sooner  settled  at  my  desk  than  in  came  Mrs. 
Porde  and  her  family,  and  are  but  this  moment  gone. 
I  find  it  is  in  vain  to  propose  writing  a  long  letter 
now,  so  don't  expect  it.  When  we  meet,  which  I  hope 
in  God  will  be  some  time  next  month,  we  will  make 
ourselves  amends  with  talking.     0  pleasing  happy  hope  1 

The  Dean  is  now  making  all  the  dispatch  he  can  in  his 
garden,  to  leave  things  in  some  regulation.  I  must  do 
the  same  in  my  house,  but  have  not  yet  begun  about  it. 

I  am  enraged  at  the  Goth  of  a  man  who  so  barbarously 
broke  up  the  Eoman  pavement.  Cannot  you  procure 
some  of  the  fragments  ?  I  fancy  one  might  piece  them 
together.  Miss  Bushe  is  much  yours,  and  at  this  instant 
painting  with  all  her  might,  whilst  Mrs.  Green  is  talking, 
squawling,  screaming,  and  making  more  variety  of  noises 
than  ever  were  made  by  human  voice,  to  her  boy,  who  is 
really  a  most  lovely  child. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

DelviUe,  26  April,  1746. 

I  told  you  a  long  story  about  an  invitation,  but  it  was 
all  a  mistake  and  misunderstanding,  which  has  occasioned 
me  no  small  hurry,  for  on  Monday  morning  Mrs.  Chenevix 

2f2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


436  LIFE  AM)  COBRESPONDENCE 

(whom  I  went  to  see)  told  me  that  the  Lord  Lieutenant 
designed  dining  with  us  on  Wednesday,  and  held  himself 
engaged.  We  were  to  dine  at  the  Bishop  of  Clogher's,  and 
jnst  as  we  sat  down  to  dine  the  Bishop  of  Waterford  came, 
and  told  us  that  his  Excellency  would  dine  with  us  the  next 
day.  I  immediatly  dispatched  a  messenger  to  Delville, 
with  a  note  to  my  housekeeper,  to  tell  her  she  must 
prepare  the  dinner  for  next  day  of  seven  and  nine,  and  a 
dessert,  and  I  was  obliged,  as  soon  as  I  had  dined,  to  go  to 
the  Castle,  and  ask  Lady  Chesterfield,  but  she  had  refused 
the  Primate  and  therefore  could  not  come  to  me,  which  she 
seemed  sincerely  to  regret.  The  Dean  went  that  evening 
to  my  L*  L.  to  know  at  what  hour  he  would  dine,  and 
to  desire  him  to  bring  whom  he  pleased.  Lord  Lieut,  said 
he  feared  he  had  made  some  mistake  about  the  day ;  but 
he  was  glad  to  seize  the  first  day  for  the  fear  the  wind 
would  change.  Home  we  went  at  eight,  and  it  cost  me 
about  an  hour  or  two  thinking ;  but  my  dinner  turned 
out  very  well,  the  particulars  of  which,  if  you  think  it 
worth  your  while,  you  shall  have  when  we  meet.  He 
came  at  three,  said  he  had  reserved  us  for  the  bon  bouche, 
was  extremely  civile  agreeable,  and  cheerful,  and  staid 
till  nearly  eight. 

This  has  been  a  week  of  hurry  with  me*  indeed.  On 
Thursday  I  went  to  the  music  for  the  benefit  of  the 
Hospital  of  Incurables,  which  was  crowded — ^the  piece 
performed  was  Alexander's  Feast ;  and  yesterday  went  to 
see  the  Beggars*  Opera.  We  have  had  glorious  news 
from  Scotland.  I  hope,  in  God,  the  afiair  of  the  rebellion 
is  now  at  an  end,  and  that  we  shall  meet  in  peace.  All 
these  gay  doings  have  interrupted  my  painting,  and  I 
much  fear  I  shall  hardly  have  time  to  finish  what  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  437 

meant  to  bring  vnth  me,  for  it  must  have  some  time  to 
dry  before  it  is  packed  up.  I  told  you  Lady  Pendergast 
has  the  next  turn  of  the  yacht,  which  will  be  some  time 
next  week,  and  I  believe  we  shall  allow  it  to  take  another 
trip  with  Lord  Blessington  ^  before  we  shall  be  ready ;  for 
till  the  middle  of  May  it  will  be  impossible  for  us  to  think 
of  moving,  and  it  may  be  the  latter  end.  The  Dean  pro- 
poses to  bring  over  his  chaise  as  well  as  the  coach,  and  I 
suppose  at  Warwick  we  can  at  any  time  hire  a  set  of 
horses ;  and  we  shall  bring  over  three  of  our  own,  which 
will  serve  for  visiting  in  your  neighbourhood. 

You  must  forgive  the  Dean's  having  ordered  Mr.  Lang- 
home^  to  send  in  a  little  wine  to  your  cellar  at  Wels- 
boume,  by  way  of  hanselling  a  new  place.  He  humbly 
begs  my  mama  will  not  think  it  necessary  to  write  him  a 
letter  for  such  a  trifle  as  he  sent ;  it  would  make  him 
blush,  and  reproach  him  for  the  liberty  he  took  in  send- 
ing her  so  mean  a  present ;  he  is  sure  she  is  so  good  as 
to  accept  of  it  as  a  small  mark  of  his  remembering  her 
with  the  utmost  gratitude  and  respect,  which  he  shall 
ever  do,  joined  to  a  tender  affection ;  and  I  am  to  say  as 
much  from  him  to  you.  I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  my 
brother ;  he  is  doubtful  whether  he  shall  be  able  to  be 
afi  soon  at  Calwieh  as  we  hope  to  be  there,  so  I  believe 
at  last  we  shall  steer  our  course  to  Welsboume.  0  how. 
my  impatience  increases ! 

The  following  letter  from  Dr.  Delany  to  Mr,  Granville  explains 
that  between  the  date  of  this  letter  (April  26th)  and  May  27th, 
Mrs.  Delany  had  been  seriously  ill;  the  tone  of  the  letter  also 

'  William,  3rd  Viscount  MouDtjoy,  was  created  Earl  of  Blessington  od  the 
7th  December,  1745. 
*  Wine  merchant,  in  King  Street,  St.  James's  Square,  London. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


438  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

proves  that  nothing  but  the  fact  of  her  being  the  rister  of  the  one 
and  the  wife  of  the  other,  prevented  a  breach,  as  Mr.  Granville 
evidently  had  never  overcome  his  annoyance  at  her  marriage. 


Dr.  Ddany  to  Bernard  OranviUe^  Esq,,  at  Calunch, 

Delville,  May  27, 1746. 

Sir, 

I  am  under  great  concern  that  Mr.  Monck's 
account  of  your  sister's  illness,  reached  you  sooner  than 
her  own ;  but  indeed  it  was  her  own  fault,  or  rather  the 
fault  of  her  tender  affection  for  her  friends.  I  would 
have  vTritten  to  you  by  the  same  post  that  Mr.  Monck 
wrot«  to  the  Duke  of  Portliand,  but  she  would  not  suffer 
me,  because  she  thought  you  might  be  too  much 
alarmed,  and  she  had  reason  to  hope  that  her  own  ac- 
count of  her  health  by  the  succeeding  post  would  pre- 
vent that  uneasiness  to  you.  The  truth  is  I  thank  God, 
she  never  was  in  danger,  nor  attended  by  more  than  one 
physician.  Dr.  Barber,  who  had  attended  her  on  all  other 
occasions,  and  is  much  in  her  esteem,  and  confided  in 
for  his  skill  and  knowledge  of  her  constitution.  To  him 
I  added  a  surgeon^  of  whose  skill  and  friendship  to  her 
and  me  I  was  well  satisfied;  and  though  they  both 
assured  me  there  was  no  danger,  yet  I  thought  that  so 
invaluable  a  life  should  rest  upon  the  most  solid  supports 
that  skill  could  supply,  and  therefore  I  ordered  them  to 
hold  a  consultation  with  Dr.  Eobson  and  Dr.  Barry 
which  I  suppose  gave  occasion  to  tha  report  of  her  being 
attended  by  four  physicians) ;  these  perfectly  agreed  in 
the  method  in  which  Dr.  Barber  had  treated  her,  and 
therefore  I  chose  not  to  alarm  her  by  the  appearance  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  439 

those  strange  physicians.  I  thaak  God  she  is  now  well, 
and  I  trust  in  Grod  will  long  continue  so,  a  blessing  to 
her  friends  and  the  world,  and  to  one  who  honours  her 
above  everything  on  this  earth,  and  is,  for  that  reason 
and  every  other  that  can  create  esteem  to  truth  and 
virtue. 

Your  most  faithful  and  most  obedient 

Humble  servant,  Pat.  Dblant. 

The  yacht  was  sent  off  Sunday,  and  we  hope  in  God 
nothing  will  hinder  us  from  hastening  to  our  friends  in 
England  as  soon  as  it  returns. 

A  long  interval  here  occurs  of  five  months,  during  which  period 
Mrs.  Delany  was  with  her  family,  and  during  which  time  Sir 
Antony  Westcomb  wrote  to  Mrs.  Dewes  the  following  letter — 


Sir  Antony  Wesoamb  to  Mrs,  Deufe$. 

August  17th. 
(BeHeved  to  be  1746.) 

Mt  dear  Cousin^ 

I  have  the  favour  of  yours  of  the  4th  instant, 
and  likewise  the  bacon  (as  you  call  it),  but  before  I  eat 
it  it  shall  be  a  ham.  Your  direction  on  the  basket  was 
quite  wrong ;  you  must  direct  for  me,  in  HoUes  Street 
near  Cavendish  Square,  or  at  the  Smyrna  Coffee  House  - 
in  PaU  Mall.  I  am  exceedingly  sorry  I  cannot  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  my  dear  aunt,  but  I  hope  I  shall  have 
that  satisfaction  before  I  die.  I  am  full  of  ailments,  and 
withal  so  weak,  that  I  cannot  get  into  nor  out  of  bed 
without  help ;  and  to  complete  all,  either  by  a  strain  or 
other  accident,  I  have  got  a  contraction  of  the  nerves  of 
my  right  thigh,  with  a  lump  at  the  upper  end,  not  at  all 


Digitized  by 


Google 


440  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDBNCE 

agreeable.  If  this  should  continue  I  am  afraid  my  in- 
tended journey  into  Warwickshire  will  be  defeated,  for  I 
can  hardly  bear  the  coach  a  mile.  Tell  my  aunt  that  I 
use  oil  of  earth-worms  with  opodeldoc  to  endeavour  to 
dispel  the  lump,  but  hitherto  ¥rithout  any  visible  effect, 
and  that  if  she  knows  of  anything  that  will  do  to  let  me 
know  it.  I  am  afraid  I  have  tired  you  sufficiently  with 
my  impertinence,  for  which  I  heartily  ask  your  pardon* 
and  am 

My  dear  cousin's 

Most  affectionate  humble  servant, 

A.  Wescomb. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Combury,  30  Oct  1746. 

How  impatient  have  I  been  for  an  hour  to  fly  to 
my  dearest  sister,  and  tell  her  what  my  heart  suffered 
when  I  left  her  happy  mansion,  which  contains  a  treasure, 
whose  value  strengthens  with  every  year,  as  every  year 
(whether  absent  or  present)  gives  me  fresh  proofs  of  its 
worth.  But  now  I  have  found  that  hour  I  am  at  a  loss 
for  expression ;  gratitude,  tender  affection,  and  sorrow 
that  I  must  leave  you,  give  me  such  a  hurry  of  thought 
and  flutter  of  spirits  that  I  can  say  nothing  upon  the 
subject,  but  that  I  love  you  most  tenderly,  and  am  truly 
thankftd  to  you  and  Mr.  Dewes  for  the  many  favours 
received  at  Welsbourne.  I  assure  you  that  D  D.  joins 
most  heartily  in  all  I  say,  and  we  hope  our  dear,  sensible 
little  nephew  remembered  all  his  messages ;  and  now  I 
must  quit  a  subject  that  is  too  affecting  to  us  both,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANT.  441 

proceed  to  tell  you  what  steps  we  have  taken,  and  are  to 
take. 

First,  many  thanks  for  sending  the  keys  which  my 
loggerheads  left  behind  them.  The  road  to  Shipston  was 
heavy,  and  bad  enough ;  from  thence  to  Chippingnorton 
pretty  well :  there  we  had  a  good  inn  and  diimer.  We 
left  Chip,  at  four,  and  got  to  Combury  by  half  an  hour 
after  five,  where  we  were  expected,  and  immediatly  con- 
veyed into  the  apartment  allotted  for  us, — which  is  so 
neat  and  so  elegant  that  I  never  saw  anything  equal 
to  it.  It  consists  of  two  large  rooms  and  a  bedchamber : 
the  first  room  is  hung  with  flowered  paper  of  a  gro- 
tesque pattern,  the  colours  lively  and  the  pattern  bold  and 
handsome,  (that  is  the  Dean's  dressing-room) ;  the  next 
room  is  hung  with  the  finest  Indian  paper  of  flowers  and 
all  sorts  of  birds^  (that  is  my  dressing-room) ;  the  ceilmgs 
are  all  ornamented  in  the  Indian  taste,  the  frames  of  the 
glass  and  all  the  finishmg  of  the  room  are  well-suited ; 
the  bedchamber  is  also  hung  with  Indian  paper  on  a  gold 
ground,  and  the  bed  is  Indian  work  of  silks  and  gold  on 
white  satin ;  the  windows  look  into  the  park,  which  is 
kept  like  the  finest  garden,  and  is  a  Paradise.  The  great 
apartment  above-stairs  is  very  fine  :  the  room  we  sit  in 
after  dinner  is  48  foot  long  and  two  and  twenty  wide  ;  the 
walls  are  covered  with  whole  lengths  of  Vandyke,^  and  so 
are  two  large  rooms  besides  that  belong  to  the  Duchess  of 
Queensberry 's  apartment.  I  have  not  time  to  describe  the 
house  more  minutely,  but  upon  the  whole  I  think  the 
house  the  most  comfortable  and  pleasant  Jim  house  I  ever 


>  Walpole  says,  *'  At  Combury  there  are  portraits  of  all  the  royalists,  and 
regicides,  and  illuistrioiui  headless." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


442  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

saw,  for  it  is  not  only  magnificent  and  elegant  but  conve- 
nient and  rational ;  it  resembles  its  master,  and  is  both 
strong  and  genteel,  nothing  can  be  more  agreeable  than  his 
behaviour.  After  we  had  been  a  few  minutes  in  our  rooms, 
a  servant  came  to  know  if  we  would  give  his  lord  leave 
to  wait  on  us:  he  came  immediately,  and  said  many 
pretty  things,  seemed  much  pleased  at  our  coming, 
and  then  led  me  upstairs  to  the  Duke  and  Duchess 
of  Queensbury,  Lord  Charles  Douglas,'  (the  youngest 
son),  and  a  Mr.  Young  and  Mr.  Macky,  two  Scotch 
gentlemen,  friends  of  the  Duke  of  Queensbury.  Her 
Ghrace  is  most  gracious  and  entertaining. 

The  lord  of  the  place  will  not  let  us  go  from  hence  till 
Saturday,  and  though  it  is  as  agreeable  as  a  place  can 
be,  since  I  have  left  my  dearest  sister  I  am  impatient  to 
get  to  Bulstrode,  but  a  lameness  in  one  of  our  horses 
obliged  us  to  discharge  the  set  we  had  from  Coles,  and 
we  could  not  conveniently  have  any  from  Oxford  till  to- 
morrow morning.  We  sent  John  Ward,  William  and  the 
chaise  on  to  Bulstrode,  where  I  suppose  they  are  by  this 
time,  to  give  notice  we  should  not  be  there  till  Monday 
night ;  and  have  appointed  John  Ward  to  meet  us  to- 
morrow at  Woodstock,  and  by  him  I  shall  send  this  letter. 

Lord  Combury*  looks  thin  and  dejected,  but  strives  to 
exert  himself  for  the  entertainment  of  his  company.  We 
meet  at  breakfast  between  nine  and  ten,  which  lasts  near 
two  hours  intermixed  with  conversations ;  when  over,  the 


*  Lord  Cliarles  Douglas,  youngest  son  of  Charles,  3rd  Duke  of  QueensLury 
died  in  1756. 

•  Bolingbroke  addressed  his  "  Letters  on  the  Study  of  History "  to  Lord 
Cornbury,  and  he  was  complimented  by  Pope  in  the  passage,  **  DMain^  what 
Cambury  diadains,^^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  443 

coach  is  ready  for  D.D.  and  me  to  tour  in  the  park,  and 
to  see  my  lord's  improvements,  the  rest  of  the  company 
ride.  I  never  saw  any  spot  of  ground  more  beautiful  than 
the  park.  I  have  taken  a  sketch  of  one  part,  which  was 
originally  a  stone  quarry,  and  is  now  improved  into  the 
wildest  prettiest  place  you  can  imagine — ^winding  walks, 
mounts  covered  with  all  sorts  of  trees  and  flowering  shrubs, 
rocks  covered  with  moss,  hollows  filled  with  bushes  inter- 
mixed with  rocks,  rural  seats,  and  sheds ;  and  in  the  valley 
beneath  a  river  winds  and  accomplishes  the  beauty.  We 
return  home  at  two  and  spruce  out,  dinner  at  half  an 
hour'  after  two ;  the  afternoon — coffee,  sauntering,  con- 
versation comes  on,  and  tea ;  my  drawings  produced, 
many  civilities  are  uttered,  and  the  whole  ends  with  a 
pool  at  commerce,  which  brings  us  to  our  hour  of  supper ; 
and  we  go  to  our  separate  apartments  at  eleven.  Yet  such 
is  my  state  of  mind  at  present  that  I  cannot  half  enjoy 
it,  and  in  the  midst  of  what  is  really  agreeable  I  feel  a 
want  that  cannot  be  supplied,  and  when  the  clock  strikes 
nme,  how  do  I  want  my  dear  little  sexton  to  summon  us 
to  prayers !  and  how  do  I  want  my  dear  sister ! 

Ever  yours,     M.  D. 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Bnlstrode,  7  Nov.,  1746. 

In  the  morning  Lady  Primrose  ^  came  from  Windsor 
to  make  us  a  visits  which  made  our  dinner  late ;  and 
Mr.  Robert  Harley  ^  and  his  nephew  came   to  dinner. 


^  Hugh,  3rd  Viscount  Primrose,  married,  in  1739,  Miss  Drelinoourt,  daughter 
of  the  Dean  of  Armagh. 

a  Robert  Harley,  Esq.,  M.  P.,  brother  to  Edward,  3rd  Earl  of  Oxford,  He 
died  unmarried  in  1774. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


444  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Unavoidable  chatter  and  tea  have  ran  away  with 
most  of  the  afternoon;  but  I  will  make  the  most  of 
my  few  minuteb.  Ton  can  decypher  my  scrawls  let  them 
be  ever  so  bad,  but  I  must  chide  you  for  making  so  many 
acknowledgments  for  trifles.  Only  repeat  our  old  fa- 
vourite song,  and  that  speaks  for  us  both  :  **AU  friendship 
is  a  muOual  deht^*  etc.  I  want  to  know  where  I  may  send 
to  Sarah  Smith  when  I  go  to  town,  which  I  believe  will  not 
be  till  the  first  week  in  Dec',  for  Miss  Granville  comes  here 
the  beginning  of  next  week  and  wiU  stay  the  rest  of  the 
month,  and  I  don't  care  to  go  whilst  she  stays.  We 
went  to  see  her  yesterday. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  was  so  considerate  as  to 
make  a  visit  to  the  Duchess  of  Norfolk,^  who  is  in 
the  neighbourhood,  that  we  might  have  the  freedom 
of  a  tete-k-tete,  and  Lord  Inchiquin'  was  so  provok- 
ing as  to  come  and  interrupt  us,  but  I  had  a  Httle 
wise  discourse  with  her ;  Cuz  Fo.  comes  to  her  the  be- 
ginning of  December,  and  stays  till  after  Xtmas.  Lady 
Wallingford  left  us  this  morning,  and  on  Monday  Mrs. 
Montagu  comes  for  a  week.  Our  dear  Duchess,  I  think, 
looks  very  well ;  she  is  grown  much  fatter ;  but  is  the 
same  kind  good  creature  she  ever  was.  The  chil- 
dren are  all  much  grown  and  improved,  and  Lord 
Edward  a  charming  boy ;  he  speaks  very  few  words,  but 
makes  signs  and  shows  a  great  apprehension  of  every 
thing.  Mrs.  Elstob  is  pretty  well,  and  enquired  very 
much  after  you.  Mon^  de  Poivre  is  so  good-humoured 
and  courteous  that  he  may  be  called  Monf   de  Miel. 


»  Edward,  9th  Duke   of  Norfolk,  married,  6th  November,  1727,  Mary, 
daughter  and  co-heir  of  Edward  Bloimt,  Esq.,  of  Biagdou,  Devon. 
'  William,  4th  Earl  of  Inchiquiu. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  445 

My  new  night-gown  met  me,  and  is  a  very  pretty  new 
fashioned  silk — green  and  white. 

You  were  not  quite  misinformed  about  Lady  Emily 
Lenox  ^  and  Prince  Lobkowitz ;  he  was  in  love  with  her 
and  madfe  proposals  of  marriage,  but  the  Emperor  would 
not  consent  for  some  foolish  reason  of  state.  I  did  not 
hear  that  Lady  Emily  was  any  way  engaged  to  him,  and 
every  thing  is  agreed  on  between  her  and  Lord  Kildare, 
and  my  Lady  Kildare  *  (the  mother)  is  come  over  to  go 
the  wedding.  Prince  Lob :  was  in  England  last  year. 
Once  more  adieu. 


*  Emlia  Mary,  seeond  daughter  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Bichmond,  married, 
first  in  1746-7,  to  James,  Earl  of  Kildare,  afterwards  created  Duke  of  Leinster ; 
and  secondly  to  William  Ogilvie,  Esq. 

»  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  William  O'Brien,  3rd  Earl  of  Inchiquin,  widow 
of  Robert,  19th  Earl  of  Kildare. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


446  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Pall  Mall,  15  Jan.  1746-7. 

My  lodging  consists  of  one  parlour  ( staircase  is  %ht 
and  easy)  and  a  drawing-room,  a  size  larger  than  what 
I  had  in  Clarges  Street :  tapestry  hangings,  crimson  stuff 
damask  curtains  and  chairs,  and  tolerable  glasses  between 
the  windows.  The  bed-chamber  backwards,  new  and  cleaa ; 
crimson  and  yellow  flaring  hangings  of  paper,  and  a  bed 
of  the  same  materials  as  the  curtains  in  the  dining-room ; 
but  it  looks  into  a  pretty  garden,  and  over  the  Rince  of 
Wales's  into  the  park,  which  is  cheerful  and  pleasant. 
The  two  pair  of  stair  rooms  and  the  garrets  all  very  toler- 
able. The  rent  four  guineas  a  week ;  the  situation  is 
next  door  to  the  Cocoa  Tree,  which  is  the  direction  to 
me.     Foley  and  Gran  come  to  town  to-morrow. 

Yesterday,  out  of  my  great  prudence,  having  had  the 
headache  two  days  with  the  bustle,  I  was  let  blood. 

I  opened  my  door  to  everybody  yesterday,  and  had 
Mrs.  Clayton,  Mrs.  Donnellan,  Miss  Brown,  Duchess  of 
Portland,  Mrs.  Montggu,  Lady  Cath.  Hanmer,  and  Miss 
Deering,  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury,  and  the  Duke  of 
Portland.  Mr.  Bateman  and  Mr.  Southwell,  and  the  Maid 
of  Honour.  To-day  I  dine  with  the  Claytons,  in  the  after- 
noon go  to  Lady  Sunderland.  ,  To-morrow  I  go  to  St. 
James's  to  pay  my  devoirs  with  the  Duchess  of  Portland; 
dine  at  home ;  in  the  afternoon  go  to  the  Duchess  of 
Norfolk,    who  is  ill  and  confined;   to  the  Countess  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  447 

Kildare,  (who  is  come  from  Ireland  to  lier  son*s  wedding) 
and  finish  at  the  Duchess  of  Queensberry's,  who  is  to  have 
a  hurricane.  On  Saturday  I  propose  sitting  quiet.  On 
Sunday  I  go  to  Carlton  House  to  pay  my  salutations  to 
their  Eoyal  Highnesses,  and  in  the  afternoon  to  Mrs. 
Montagu.  I  go  to-morrow  in  my  Irish  green  damask 
and  my  worked  head;  on  the  Birthday,  which  is  on 
Tuesday  next,  in  a  flowered  silk  I  have  bought  since  I 
came  to  town,  on  a  pale  deer-coloured  figured  ground  \ 
the  flowers,  mostly  purple,  are  mixed  with  white  feathers. 
I  think  it  extremely  pretty  and  very  modest.  Thus  far 
was  written  yesterday ;  my  head  is  dressed  but  I  wait  for 
my  mantua.  Mrs.  Cob  has  promised  to  bring  it  by 
twelve ;  she  is  I  hope  well  married  ;  her  husband  seems 
to  have  sense,  and  has  promised  me  to  be  very  kind  to 
his  wife.  {This  is  by  the  by).  Lady  Sunderland  looks  iU, 
but  is  better.  Her  son  Sutton  is  as  tall  as  my  brother ; 
he  is  going  immediately  to  Oxford,  and  promises  very 
well ;  Miss  Sutton  is,  as  she  always  was,  an  agreeable 
young  woman.  Many  enquiries  after  you  were  made, 
many  services  sent. 

I  was,  as  I  proposed,  at  Court  yesterday,  and  was 
presented  and  most  graciously  received.  The  King 
asked  me  how  I  liked  Ireland,  the  Duke  did  the  same. 
I  dined  at  home,  and  in  the  afternoon  my  brother  came ; 
he  looks  grave,  and  lives  much  at  home,  though  he  is 
•much  courted  for  his  company  abroad.  At  six  I  went 
to  the  Maid  of  Honour's,  and  found  the  Nosegay^  together, 
Mrs.  Foley  looks  very  well  after  her  journey. 

I  hope  Mr.  Chap,  can  hold  Senington,^  with  his  other 
livings.      Has  he  a  house  there,  or  does  he  continue 

^  The  three  sisters  Honourable  Ann  and  Elizabeth  Granville,  and  Mrs.  Foley. 
*  Query  Sevenhampton  f  near  Andover's  Ford,  Gloucestershire. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


448  LIFE  AND  OORBESPONDENCE 

at  Cheltenham  ?  I  must  send  my  little  Jacky  a  pair  of 
stays,  and  his  sister  ;^  let  me  know  what  size  I  must  be- 
speak. Lady  Sarah  Cowper  is  so  happy  (so  very  happy) 
as  to  have  her  sister  in  town  with  her ;  she  has  had  a  fever, 
and  ever  since  a  lurking  feverishness,  for  which  she  now 
takes  tar  water.  After  my  visit  to  the  sisters  I  went  with 
the  Duchess  (of  all  the  Duchesses),  to  the  Duchess  of 
Norfolk,  who  stays  at  home  and  sees  everybody,  and  from 
thence  to  the  Duchess  of  Queensberry's  rout,  where  I 
saw  much  finery.  My  eyes  at  first  were  dazzled  with 
the  prettyness  of  the  scene,  but  half  an  hour  was  enough. 
However  I  had  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  and  we  sat 
together  almost  aU  the  time  we  staid;  there  I  saw  Mr. 
Keck  and  Lady  Susan.'  I  came  home  at  half  an  hour 
after  ten  to*  my  own  good  companion,  who  always  receives 
me  with  smiles.  Miss  Granville  came  home  soon  after 
me,  and  when  a  little  chat  was  over  we  retired  to  our 
apartments. 

Grran  likes  her  apartments  mightily,  and  Mrs.  Foley 
has  made  her  a  present  of  a  very  handsome  suit  of 
clothes  for  the  Prince  of  Wales's  birthday. 

This  morning  I  am  to  go  to  the  Duchess  of  Queens- 
berry's  to  see  her  work  and  painting ;  dine  at  home  with 
our  cousins  and  my  brother ;  in  the  afternoon  I  proposed 
staying  quietly,  but  the  Duchess  of  Portland  will  have 
me  and  all  my  company  come  to  her ;  I  oppose,  but 
believe  she  wiU  yet  get  the  better.  To-morrow  I  am  to 
be  presented  at  Carlton  House.  I  like  Sarah  Smith  very 
much ;  she  is  nimble  and  quiet,  civil  and  very  handy. 


1  Lady  Anne  Colleton. 

'  Lady  Susan  Hamilton,  eldest  daughter  of  James,  4th  Duke  of  Hamilton, 
married  Anthony  Tracy  Keck,  Esq.,  of  Great  Tew,  county  of  Oxford,  and  died 
June  3, 1765. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MKS.  DKLANY.  449 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Pall  Mall,  21Jan.  1746-7. 

I  must  now  communicate  to  you  all  my  transactions 
since  my  last  journal,  which  I  believe  ended  with  my 
having  been  at  St.  James's  and  at  the  Duchess  of  Queens- 
berry's  rout.  On  Saturday  Whitehall ;  the  Duchess  in- 
veigled away  all  my  company,  and  I  followed.  Sunday 
I  went  to  St.  James  Chapel  at  eight,  came  home,  dressed 
and  went  to  Carlton  House  at  three  with  the  Duchess  of 
Portland :  I  was  presented,  and  so  was  the  Dean ;  who 
was  also  spoken  to  by  their  Eoyal  Highnesses  very  gra- 
ciously. Dined  at  the  Duchess  of  Queensberry's ;  nobody 
but  her  Grace,  the  Dean,  and  myself;  she  was  extremely 
civil  and  entertaining.  At  seven  the  Duchess  of  Port- 
land called  me  to  go  to  Lady  Kildare ;  not  at  home. 
Went  on  to  Hanover-Sqtiare :  Mrs.  Montagu  there; 
drank  tea ;  she  went  on  to  other  visits ;  I  staid  till  nine 
o'clock. 

Monday  I  spent  the  day  at  Whitehall  settling  our 
QueerCs  jewels,  and  yesterday  we  made  our  appearance 
at  Leicester-house.  The  Duchess  of  Portland  was  in 
white  satin,  the  petticoat  ruffled,  and  robings  and  facings. 
She  had  all  her  fine  jewels  on,  and  looked  handsomer 
than  ever  I  saw  her  look  in  my  life,  and  in  my  eyes  out- 
shone in  every  respect  all  the  blazing  stars  of  the  Court. 
There  was  not  much  new  finery,  new  clothes  not  being 
required  on  this  Birthday.  They  curl  and  wear  a  great 
many  tawdry  things,  but  there  is  such  a  variety  in  the 
manner  of  dress,  that  I  don't  know  what  to  tell  you  is 
the  fashion;  the  only  thing  that  seems  general  are 
hoops  of  an  enormous  size,  and  most  people  wear  vast 
winkers  to  their  heads.      They  are  now  come  to  such  an 

VOL.  II.  2  G 


Digitized  by 


Google 


450  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

extravagance  in  those  two  particulars,  that  I  expect  soon 
to  see  the  other  extreme  of  thread-paper  heads  and  no 
hoops,  and  from  appearing  like  so  many  blown  bladders  we 
shall  look  like  so  many  bodkins  stalking  about.  I  never 
saw  a  greater  crowd  than  at  Leicester -house.  The  reign- 
ing beauty  I  think  among  the  very  young  things,  is  Miss 
Carpenter,  >  Lord  Carpenter's  daughter ;  and  since  Lady 
Dysart  was  fifteen  I  have  not  seen  anything  so  handsome ; 
but  the  prize  of  beauty  is  disputed  with  her  by  Lady  Emily 
Lenox.  She  is  indeed  "  Like  some  tall  stately  tower ;"  the 
other  is  "  some  Virgin  Queen*s  delicious  bowery  We  dined 
,at  Whitehall.  Lord  Bateman^  dined  there  ;  he  is  exces- 
sively thin,  polite  and  modest  in  behaviour.  Li  the  after- 
noon I  called  upon  Cuz  Fo ;  made  a  visit  to  the  Percivals 
and  Lady  Westmoreland,  who  is  confined  with  the  gout. 
Coming  out  from  her  house,  as  soon  as  I  got  into  my 
chair,  the  chairmen  fairly  overturned  li,— fairly  I  may 
say,  for  not  a  glass  was  broken  nor  was  I  the  least  hurt ;  I 
own  I  was  a  little  terrified,  and  Lord  Westmoreland 
hearing  a  bustle  at  the  door,  found  me  topsy  turvy.  He 
insisted  on  my  getting  out  of  my  chair,  which  I  did, 
drank  a  glass  of  water,  sat  half  an  hour  in  his  library, 
and  went  on  to  Lady  Frances  Carteret ;  found  her  at  home 
ill  of  a  cold ;  she  enquired  much  after  you  and  your  fine 
children :  we  are  to  dine  there  on  Friday  next.  To- 
day we  dine  in  Bond  Street,  to-morrow  at  Mrs.  Vesey's. 
Miss  Granville  went  with  us  to  the  Birthday  in  a  white 
satin  with  brocaded  flowers,  and  my  brother's  present  of 

m 

1  Alicia,  daughter  of  George,  2nd  Lord  Carpenter,  married  first,  Charles,  1st 
Earl  of  Egremont,  who  died  21at  August,  1763,  and  seoondly,  Count  Brohl, 
Minister  from  Saxony.    She  was  Lady  of  the  Bedchamber  to  Queen  Charlotte. 

*  John,  2nd  Viscount  Bateman,  succeeded  his  father  in  1744.  He  was 
Master  of  the  Buokhounds,  and  M«P  for  Woodstock. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  451 

a  Brussels  kced  head,  and  I  hope  my  Lord  Weymouth 
will  add  another  hundred  pounds  a  year  to  her  income,  and 
then  she  will  be  in  very  easy  circumstances. 

Poor  Mrs.  Littleton,^  has  left  a  most  disconsolate  mother, 
and  an  afflicted  husband ;  she  was  happy  in  this  world, 
according  to  our  notion  of  happiness,  and  was  an  agreeable 
and  deserving  woman,  which  makes  her  much  lamented. 
My  concern  is  for  the  unhappy  survivors,  for  I  hope  she 
has  found  a  more  certain  and  more  glorious  happiness 
than  can  be  our  portion  here,  but  they  have  lost  that 
which  cannot  be  made  up  to  them  in  this  world.  Her 
own  great  imprudence  it  is  thought  occasioned  her  death. 

Lord  North  has  been  here  twice,  and  I  have  most  un- 
luckily been  abroad.  Master  Brownlow  ^  has  had  the  small 
pox,  and  Miss  Charlotte  is  inoculated  from  him,  so  that 
at  present  he  is  shut  up  from  many  of  his  acquaintance.  I 
hope  now  the  bustle  of  the  Birthday  is  over  I  shall  have 
leisure  to  spend  more  time  with  her  than  I  have. 

Just  as  I  came  to  this  place,  in  came  Mr.  Handel,  and 
he  has  prevented  my  adding  any  more.  Violet's  kindest 
compliments  :  she  is  a  very  agreeable  person  in  the  house. 
The  Maid  of  Honour  was  so  fatigued  at  the  ball,  that  as 
soon  as  she  had  danced  her  minuets  she  fainted  away, 
but  she  is  now  well  again.  "  The  Allegro  "  is  a  drawing^ 
I  have  imagined  in  imitation  of  Mr.  Handel's  Let  me 
wander,  etc.,  and  I  have  brought  in  all  the  images  as 
well  as  I  could.    "  The  Penseroso  "  is  in  embryo. 


'  Lucy,  daughter  of  Hugh  Forteacue,  Esq.,  of  Pilleigh,  county  Devon,  who  died 
January  19,  1747,  and  wife  of  Mr.  Lyttelton,  who  succeeded  his  father  in  the 
haronetcy,  1761. 

*  Brownlow,  son  of  Lord  North  by  his  second  wife,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Sir  Arthur  Eaye.  He  was  bom  July  17,  1741,  and  was  successively  Bishop 
of  Lichfield,  of  Worcester,  and  of  Winchester,  and  died  July  12,  1820. 

2g2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


452  LIFE  AND  COBBESPONDENOE 

Mrs.  Bdany  to  Mrs.  Vetoes. 

Pall  Mall,  29  Jan.  1746-7. 

As  to  what  you  propose  of  my  coming  to  Welsboume, 
I  will  compromise  the  matter  as  well  as  I  can.  D.D. 
intends  going  to  the  Bath,  but  is  so  good  as  to  say  I 
can  spend  that  time  among  my  friends ;  so  what  I  pro- 
pose is  to  go  directly  to  Gloucester,  make  a  visit  of  a 
fortnight  or  tliree  weeks  there,  and  bring  my  mama  and 
your  little  boy  to  Welsbourne ;  when  I  go  to  Gloucester. 
D.D.  will  go  to  the  Bath,  and  follow  me  to  Welsboume. 
I  cannot  tlnnk  of  your  hurrying  yourself  about,  and  I  am 
sure  Gloucester  is  not  sl  place  you  wish  to  visit  when  you 
have  not  an  indispensable  call ;  but  I  must  go  there, 
for  it  would  not  be  right  towards  my  mother,  not  to  do 
it.  God  knows  how  long  I  may  be  permitted  to  pay  her 
that  duty  ;  pray  was  she  not  75  the  last  birthday  ?  She 
writes  me  word  she  has  got  a  little  of  the  gout  in  her 
foot ;  I  hope  it  will  be  of  service  to  her,  though  a  severe 
remedy. 

We  dined  with  Lord  Granville  last  Friday;  I  have 
not  seen  him  so  cheerful  and  agreeable,  and  Lady 
Frances  does  the  honours  of  the  table  very  civilly,  and 
I  assure  you  there  is  an  improvement  in  their  dinners 
also.  Lady  Dysart  is  in  town ;  Lady  Georgina*  at  Wim* 
bleton.  I  am  to  go  soon  with  the  Duchess  of  Queens- 
berry,  to  make  her  a  morning  visit.  The  penalty 
on  cambrick  does  not  touch  the  buyer  but  the  seller. 
I  think  you  quite  in  the  right  to  make  a  sack;  they 
are  easier  and  handsomer  than  any  other  dress  for  a 
lady  in  your  circumstances ;  you  may  wear  a  sack  with  a 

*  Lady  Qeorgina  Spencer  (bom  Carteret),  afterwards  Ck)unte88  Cowper. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS  DELANY.  453 

mob  under  your  chin  if  you  please.  Scotch  caps  are  all 
the  mode  and  worn  by  all  ages ;  they  are  put  on  with  a 
couple  of  jJins,  and  that  is  a  great  recommendation  for 
any  dress. 

Last  Saturday  I  went  to  the  play ;  it  was  the  Funeral/ 
which  I  think  an  entertaining  play,  and  the  new  farce  of 
Miss  in  her  Teens,*  composed  by  Garrick;  nothin  can 
be  lower,  but  the  part  he  acts  in  it  himself  (Mr.  Fribble) 
he  makes  so  very  ridiculous  that  it  is  really  entertaining. 
It  is  said  he  mimics  eleven  men  of  fashion — Lord  Bate — n, 
L*  Her — y,  Felton  Her — y,  some  others  you  don't 
know,  and  our  friend  Dicky  Bate — ^n,  I  must  own  the 
latter  is  a  striking  likeness ;  but  do  not  name  to  any  body 
these  people,  for  I  don't  love  to  spread  such  tattle,  though 
I  send  it  for  your  private  amusement,  and  that  you  may 
not  be  ignorant  of  the  ways  of  this  world.  I  went  with 
the  Duchess  of  Portland,  who  is  very  well,  and  charged  me 
with  her  "  kind  love  to  Pip."  Sunday  dined  at  Whitehall, 
and  met  my  brother  in  the  afternoon.  Yesterday  went  to 
Sir  Luke  Schaub's  to  see  his  pictures,  which  are  now  in 
better  order  than  when  I  was  in  England  before ;  he 
has  got  a  very  good  house  in  Old  Bond  Street.  In 
the  afternoon  I  was  engaged  to  Lady  Mary  Colley,  to 
meet  Mrs.  Donnellan  and  Clayton ;  to-day  they  dine  with 
me,  and  I  stay  at  home  the  rest  of  the  day. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  was  saying  one  day  no  one 
had  invited  her  to  a  drum,  upon  which  I  sent  her 
ten  cards  in  feigned  hands, — from  Mrs.  Guzzle  in 
Swallow  Street,  Mrs,  May  of  Bloamsbury,  Mrs.  Winter  of 
SnowMllj  Mrs.  Alestub  of  Brewer's  Street,  Mrs.  Sprat 

>  The  Funeral,  or  Grief  a-l*-mode,  a  comedy,  by  Sir  Riohard  Steele. 
3  Miss  in  her  Teens,  a  farce,  by  Garrick ;  produced  in  Dublin  during  Lis 
second  visit  to  Ireland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


454  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

to  a  barrel  of  oysters  of  BUlingsgatey  Mrs.  Swift  of  Fleet 
Street^  Mrs.  Parsons  of  Bishopgate  Street^  Mrs.  Plummer 
in  LeadenhaU  Street^  Mrs.  Selmne  in  Sackmle^  Street. 
At  first  she  could  not  tell  what  to  make  of  such  a  rig- 
rny-role,  but  at  last  fixed  it  on  Greene  and  the  Duke. 

Sir  Charles  Mordaunt'  made  me  a  visit  the  day  before 
yesterday ;  h^  says  his  daughters  are  to  be  in  town  next 
month.  Mr.  Stanley  and  twenty  fiddle  faddles  have  tur- 
moiled  me  all  the  morning ;  but  I  must  tell  you  before  I 
conclude  that  I  have  got  a  provision  /  hope  for  Mrs. 
Drake .  Poor  Mrs.  C.  is  to  be  boarded  in  the  country, 
and  as  the  Duchess  of  Portland  wanted  some  trusty  per- 
son to  attend  her,  I  thought  of  Mrs.  Drake,  and  wrote 
to  my  mother  to  know  if  Mrs.  D.  would  undertake  it  for 
twelve  pounds  a  year,  which  she  does  readily,  and  is  much 
pleased  at  the  provision.  Mrs.  C.  is  never  outrageous ; 
it  may  rather  be  called  a  total  loss  of  memory  than  mad- 
ness, though  she  is  as  incapable  of  doing  anything  for 
herself,  as  if  she  was  in  the  strongest  frenzy. 

A  period  of  four  months  ensues  after  this  letter ;  and  the  next 
date  is  Chester,  in  May  of  the  same  year,  when  the  Dean  of  Down 
and  Mrs.  Delany  were  once  more  on  their  way  to  Ireland. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  DeweSy  at  WeUiboume, 

Chester,  Sunday,  half-an-hour  after  eleven,  {May.) 

Had  our  wheels  been  as  heavy  as  my  heart  when  I 
left  Welsboume  we  should  have  made  a  tedious  journey. 

^  Sir  Charles  Mordaunt,  of  Massingham  in  Norfolk,  the  6th  Baronet  of  the 
family.  He  was  member  for  tlie  county  of  Warwick,  and  died  in  1778.  His 
first  wife  was  a  daughter  of  Sir  John  Conyers,  by  whom  he  had  two  daughtere  ; 
he  married  secondly,  in  1730,  Sophia,  only  daughter  of  Sir  John  WodehouBC, 
by  whom  he  had  two  sons,  John,  who  succeeded  him,  and  Charles. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  455 

So  many  tender  attachments  as  I  have  there  makes 
such  a  separation  very  severe ;  but  in  our  stages  through 
this  world  we  must  feel  the  alternatives  of  grief  and  joy. 
To  leave  a  friend  one  loves  must  at  all  times  be  most 
painful ;  if  anything  can  render  it  less  so  it  is  the  con- 
solation of  such  a  friend  as  bears  me  company,  who  not 
only  thinks  it  reasonable  for  me  to  grieve  for  leaving 
inestimable  friends,  but  himself  sincerely  grieves  too. 

He  is  gone  to  church,  and  by  mistake  I  am  not ;  they 
neglected  bringing  me  word,  as  D.D.  ordered  them, 
when  the  bell  rung,  and  I  am  now  too  late.  We  arrived 
on  Friday  at  Castle  Brumidge  between  ten  and  eleven, 
through  excessively  bad  roads  ;  there  diiied  on  bacon  and 
eggs,  roast  fowl  and  broiled  fowl,  I  swallowed  meat  and 
drink  and  something  else^  ior  few^  very  few  words  passed. 

Next  day  (which  was  yesterday)  dined  at  Newport,  lay 
at  Whitchurch :  could  we  have  met  with  a  fresh  set  of 
horses  there,  had  come  on  to  Chester  to  avoid  travelling 
on  Sunday ;  but  the  perverseness  of  our  coachman  was 
such  that  he  would  neither  be  ready  early  enough  any 
morning  nor  go  one  mile  farther.  Thank  God  we  arrived 
here  at  ten  this  morning  §afe  and  well,  without  any  bad 
accident,  but  the  obstinate  surliness  of  our  coachman. 
Mr.  Coles  has  used  us  ill,  and  pray  let  him  know  it ;  two 
of  the  horses  were  too  young  to  work,  and  the  man  that 
rode  postilion  had  never  been  postilion  in  his  life.  Mr. 
Lawe  with  our  pair  of  mares  made  as  much  expedition 
as  we  did.  I  have  promised  the  coachman  if  he  delivers 
this  letter,  or  sends  it  to  you  as  soon  as  he  returns, 
that  you  would  give  him  something.  Lady  Kildare  did 
not  go  till  last  Thursday,  the  wind  being  contrary ;  the 
yacht  is  expected  in  this  tide,  and  in  all  probability  we 


Digitized  by 


Google 


•456  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

shall  set  sail  to-morrow  morning.  Dr.  Cobden  and  his 
lady  are  gone  in  a  ship  they  found  ready ;  they  drove 
themselves  from  London  to  Chester,  and  left  their  maid 
to  come  in  the  stage  coach  with  their  portmanteau !  The 
maid  is  come,  but  no  portmanteau,  she  swears  it  was  de- 
livered to  the  stage  coachman,  the  man  swears  he  did 
not  receive  it,  the  trunk  can't  be  heard  of  yet,  and  if 
not  found  the  man  will  be  sent  to  Newgate.  It  is  really 
a  vexatious  affair.  All  our  things  are  safely  arrived. 
I  left  word  with  Betty  Smith  that,  upon  second  thoughts, 
I  would  not  have  Lord  Sandwich^  sent  in  less  time  than  a 
fortnight ;  it  had  best  be  thoroughly  dry. 

We  are  to  dine  at  1,  and  at  3  set  out  for  Park  Gate ; 
by  that  time  I  hope  we  shall  have  some  account  of  the 
yacht — I  will  not  seal  my  letter  till  then.  D.D.  is  clearly 
of  opinion  we  might  have  performed  our  journey  to  Chester 
in  two  days  with  ease  had  the  horses  been  such  as  Mr.  Cole 
promised  him  they  should ;  or  even  as  they  were  had 
he  not  expressly  commanded  the  coachman  to  the  contrary. 
I  beUeve  there  never  was  bom  so  provoking  a  man  as  the 
coachman,  but  thank  God  we  have  done  with  him,  and 
are  safe  at  Park  Gate.  I  send  this  by  the  postilion,  who 
seems  to  be  the  honester  man  of  the  two.  Adieu,  my  most 
dear  sister,  the  yacht  is  not  yet  returned,  and  not  ex- 
pected till  to-morrow  afternoon.  I  shall  not  be  sorry  to 
rest  a  day.  We  have  a  quiet  clean  lodging,  and  are  both 
very  well. 

'  Cue  of  Mrs.  Delany^s  paiutingB. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  457 

Mrs.  Delany  to  Mn.  Dewes. 

Park  Gate,  19  May,  1747. 

'Tis  cruel  my  dearest  sister  to  have  lost  so  many  pre- 
cious hours ;  for  here  loe  are  stiU^  and  may  he  some  days 
longer y  as  the  yacht  by  accounts  this  morning  had  not 
sailed  out  of  the  Bay  of  Dublin  yesterday,  and  the  wind 
is  now  against  her ;  but  we  could  not  foretell  that,  for 
had  the  wind  been  favourable,  the  yacht  had  waited  for  us, 
instead  of  our  waiting  for  her  ;  we  keep  up  our  spirits 
as  well  as  our  present  disagreeable  circumstances  will 
allow :  I  compare  it  with  what  I  suffered  when  I  was 
last  going  to  Ireland,  and  think  myself  happy.  D.D. 
reads  to  me  whilst  I  work  cross-stitch,  or  cut  letters,*  and 
exerts  his  good-humoured  cheerftflness  to  keep  up  my 
spirits.  We  waJk  out  twice  or  thrice  a-day.  Park  Gate 
consists  of  about  50  or  60  houses  in  an  irregular  line  by 
the  water  side ;  the  river  Dee  runs  from  Chester,  but  is 
not  navigable  farther  than  to  this  place.  A  few  ships  lie 
before  us,  and  continually  people  passing  and  repassing, 
which  is  some  amusement.  The  strand  opposite  to  this 
house  is  about  four  miles  over,  and  on  the  other  side  is  a 
large  tract  of  mountainous  land,  (Flintshire,)  but  very  rich 
and  finely  cultivated.  The  fields  behind  the  houses  are 
pleasant  to  walk  in,  but  the  strand  before  the  houses  rough 


>  Almost  every  thing  Mrs.  Delany  did  is  marked  vdth  her  cypher,  and  in 
innumerable  instances  cut  out  in  coloured  paper.  The  "  letters  "  here  alluded 
to  are  probably  cyphers  to  be  used  when  wanted.  On  one  occasion,  while 
waiting  a  long  time  for  fair  weather  to  embark  at  Park  Gate,  and  having 
exhausted  her  materials  for  employment,  she  saw  a  painter  going  to  repaint 
the  sign  of  the  inn  ;  she  immediately  proposed  to  pay  him  the  price  he  was  to 
receive,  and  to  do  it  for  him,  which  she  did  with  his  paints  and  brushes.  Mrs. 
Delany  related  this  story  herself  to  the  Editor's  mother ;  the  sign  was  (she 
believed)  a  Swan. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


458  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  stony.  Wliat  rare  amusement  should  I  have  did  it  pro- 
duce any  shells  !  but  alas  here  are  none  but  ordinary  dirty 
cockles  and  mussels.  About  a  mile  off  is  a  little  village 
called  Nesson ;  we  walked  to  it  yesterday  in  search  of  ad- 
ventures, but  met  with  none  ;  came  home  at  nine  hungry 
to  our  supper,  and  slept  very  well  after  it.  Our  books 
are  almost  read  through,  and  I  am  afraid  we  shall  not 
meet  with  any  in  our  neighbourhood,  except  the  minister 
of  our  parish  will  be  so  charitable  as  to  supply  us.  He  is 
to  make  us  a  visit  this  afternoon,  and  perhaps  his  wife 
win  also  come,  his  name  is  Mapletoft.. 

In  our  walks  this  morning  we  were  much  amused  in 
finding  a  variety  of  fine  caterpillars,  but  I  can't  say  any 
uncommon  sorts  except  one,  which  some  inhuman  foot 
had  crushed  to  death,  with  a  head  as  green  as  an  emerald, 
and  the  body  shades  of  browns  and  gold  colour.  Another 
great  pleasure  to  us,  was  hearing  and  watching  the  lark 
singing,  as  he  soared,  hovering,  wavering,  and  fluttering 
from  side  to  side  as  he  varied  his  strains,  and  at  last 
dropped  down  to  the  grass  to  meet  his  mate.  How  many 
natural  and  exquisite  delights  daily  poured  down  on  us 
from  heaven,  are  daily  lost  upon  us  for  want  of  a  leisure 
moment  to  attend  to  them,  or  a  heart  sufficiently  grateitJ 
to  acknowledge  them,  of  which  this  instance  of  the  lark  is 
at  once  a  fine  emblem  and  proof. 

I  think  now  I  have  given  you  a  true  and  exact  ac- 
coimt  how  we  are  situated,  and  how  we  have  past  our 
time. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELAXY.  459 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Deioes. 

Delville,  26  May,  1747. 

I  hope  my  dearest  sister  has  received  all  my  letters 
regularly,  and  then  she  knows  that  we  have  had  (I 
thank  God)  a  very  good  journey  and  safe  voyage,  and 
are  arrived  at  our  own  dear  villa ;.  where  if  I  could  be  so 
happy  as  to  receive  and  entertain  those  friends  that  have 
so  kindly  received  and  entertained  me  in  England,  I  could 
not  envy  (were  I  the  most  envious  of  creatures)  any  being 
upon  earth.  But  I  must  not  indulge  a  thought  so  much 
out  of  my  power ;  I  will  endeavour  to  be  thankful  for  the 
blessings  I  enjoy,  ftdly  convinced  how  unworthy  I  am 
of  them,  and  not  presume  to  think  I  have  any  pretensions 
to  be  possessed  of  more. 

Your  most  welcome  letter  of  the  15th  May  gave  me 
very  different  sensations  of  pain  and  pleasure ;  every 
Uttle  sentiment  and  circumstance  was  delightful  to  a 
heart  so  affectionately  devoted  to  you  as  mine  is.  Youi? 
visit  to  the  nursery,  the  manner  of  the  children's  accost- 
iD^  you,  your  going  to  my  room  and  closet,  all  that  I 
had  formed  to  myself,  and  followed  you  step  by  step !  I 
feel  the  truth  of  what  you  say,  that  we  "  ought  to  make 
our  friendship  contribute  to  our  happiness,  and  not  our 
woe;"  and  since  we  must  be  separated,  let  us  make 
that  distressftd  circumstance  as  light  as  we  can,  by 
communicating  our  thoughts  and  manner  of  life ;  when 
we  cannot  purchase  an  original,  we  must  content  our- 
selves with  the  best  copy  we  can  get.  Apropos,  all  my 
pictures,  china,  fee,  have  come  safe  and  well,  and  I  don't 
doubt  but  those  that  you  have  taken  care  to  send  after 


Digitized  by 


Google 


460  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

me,  will  do  the  same,  I  hope  when  you  opened  my  box 
you  looked  at  the  plants  and  birds. 

Lady  Sarah  Cowper*s  letter  touched  me  extremely  ;  I 
have  returned  it  to  you.  I  don't  know  what  to  make  of 
her  disorder,  and  think  it  must  be  much  increased  to 
confine  her  all  the  summer  in  town.  Don't  send  Lord 
Sandwich  till  quite  dry. 

We  were  invited  to  dine  on  Friday  with  the  Pordes, 
and  went,  and  in  the  evening  I  called  upon  the  two  Mrs. 
Hamiltons  and  Miss  Forth,  and  found  all  well.  But 
Mrs.  Forth  Hamilton  is  now  under  an  anxiety  I  am 
sure  you  will  feel  for — ^her  two  children  were  inoculated 
last  Friday  morning.  I  hope  they  will  do  well,  and  that 
joy  may  restore  her  to  a  happy  state  she  has  not  known 
for  some  time.^  Saturday  I  spent  at  home  unpacking 
and  beginning  to  settle.  We  had  the  pleasure  of  finding 
house  and  gardens  in  perfect  beauty ;  and  Mr.  Greene 
has  added  three  beautiful  young  deer  to  my  stock  with  a 
milk  white  face ;  my  swan  is  well ;  Tiger  knew  me,  and 
I  have  a  very  fine  thriving  colt  and  calf.  On  Sunday  went 
to  church,  had  a  table-full  of  old  acquaintance,  in  the 
afternoon  went  to  church  again,  and  found  ladies  at 
home  on  my  return.  I  have  breakfasted  and  drank  tea 
in  an  afternoon  in  my  garden  twice  ;  Pearly  Bower  in 
high  beauty,  and  I  have  not  failed  paying  my  daily 
homage  to  it.  The  robins  have  not  yet  welcomed  us, 
but  one  chaffinch  has,  and  hops  afber  us  wherever  we  go. 
Yesterday  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton  walked  here  by  8  dock  and 

'  It  must  be  remembered  that  inoculation  for  small  pox  was  at  this  time 
resorted  to  partially  and  often  ended  fatally ;  and  the  misery  that  parents 
endured  in  deciding  upon  having  it  done,  may  well  be  imagined,  although 
aware  it  was  giving  their  children  a  greater  chance  of  life  than  if  (^ugbt  natu- 
rally. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  461 

staid  till  2,  and  my  Mrs.  Hamilton  spent  the  greatest 
part  of  the  morning  with  me.  I  had  company  all  the 
afternoon — people  you  don't  know,  so  that  I  have  not 
had  a  quiet  day  since  I  came  home.  Bushe  desires  her 
baisemains.  As  soon  as  I  get  my  receipt-book  I  will 
send  you  the  isinglass  cement. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Lewes, 

Delville,  6  June,  1747. 

The  drawing-box  and  book  and  everything  contained 
therein  are  arrived  safe,  even  to  the  very  nightcaps. 
I  have  been  so  lucky  in  my  journey  home,  as  not  to 
have  had  anything  the  least  rubbed,  broken,  or  damaged. 
I  suppose  you  looked  at  my  Lady  Abbess  ?^  It  is  really 
like,  though  by  no  means  a  good  likeness.  It  was  prettily 
and  kindly  done ;  but  how  without  a  magical  wand  it 
could  be  so  soon  finished  I  cannot  conceive. 

I  am  glad  you  have  got  the  letter  from  Park  Gate,  with 
the  verses ;  the  race  of  coachmen  and  postilions  are  a 
faithless  generation;  never  more  shall  we  bring, coach 
or  horses  over.  They  are  a  great  expense,  and  the  damage 
they  receive  by  the  voyage,  and  the  great  trouble  attend- 
ing them  at  the  Custom  house  is  so  teazing,  that  I  should 
never  wish  to  be  so  embarrassed  again  in  a  country 
where  those  conveniences  can  he  had  for  money.  I 
thank  God  the  Dean  and  I  have  been  perfectly  well  since 
we  came  home,  and  have  enjoyed  the  sweets  and  sunshine 
of  Delville  as  much  as  some  rainy  days  and  a  great  deal 
of  company  would  permit.   Yesterday  we  spent  the  whole 

1  Honourable  A.  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


462  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

day  (but  an  hour  at  dinner,  and  that  was  partly)  in  the 
garden,  for  onr  kitchen^rate  was  down^  and  a  new  one 
putting  up,  stoves  making,  and  a  boiler  placing,  so  that 
we  could  have  liothing  conveniently  drest  at  home :  we 
sent  our  mutton  and  chicken  to  Mr,  Barber  s  house  at  the 
end  of  the  garden,  and  had  it  drest  in  his  kitchen,  and  eat 
it  in  his  dining-room,-  which  looks  into  Carlingford  gar- 
den. His  wife  and  children  are  gone  further  into  the 
country  for  a  little  while.  Mr.  Barber  came  home  when 
we  had  half  dined,  in  a  great  hurry,  to  bum  some  of  his 
enamels,  little  thinking  to  find  his  house  full  of  com- 
pany, which  occasioned  some  mirth  amongst  us.  As 
soon  as  we  had  dined  we  adjourned  to  the  Beggar's  Hut, 
and  had  coffee  there.  Just  as  it  was  over,  Mrs.  Clayton 
called  on  me  to  go  to  Lady  Orrery's,*  who  lives  about 
half  a  mile  from  hence  \  she  was  not  at  home ;  we  returned 
to  Delville,  and  drank  tea  in  the  garden. 

You  are  very  kind  in  inquiring  after  Smith ;  she  was  \qtj 
sick  at  sea,  but  well  again  as  soon  as  landed ;  she  is  much  de- 
lighted with  Delville,  and  (as  much  as  she  has  seen)  with 
Ireland.  She  and  my  housekeeper  take  to  one  another 
extremely ;  and  I  hope  I  am  now  settled  with  honest  quiet 
domestics.  Fribble  behaves  himself  very  well,  and  Thomas 
will  make  I  believe,  in  time,  a  very  good  butler.  I  should 
have  mentioned  to  you  my  pretty  birthday  present  before 
but  that  I  thought  D  .D .  had  told  you  what  it  was.  It  was  a 
pair  of  3-drop  amethyst  earrings,  set  round  with  diamonds: 
I  shall  wear  them  on  Tuesday  next,  (the  9th  ofJttne,)  with 
the  pearl  necklace ;  we  have  invited  all  our  good  friends, 


'  Margaret,  daughter  and  sole  heir  of  John  Hamilton,  of  Caledon,  Esq.,  was 
the  sepond  wife  of  John,  5th  Earl  of  Orrery. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  463 

the  Barbers  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ghreene,  to  make  merry 
with  us  that  day,  and  have  got  my  pretty  ninepiu  alley 
in  order  for  their  entertainment.  I  wish  poor  Dowager 
Barber  could  make  one  amongst  us ;  but  alas  I  she  scarcely 
ever  rises  out  of  her  bed,  though  I  think  on  the  whole  she 
looks  and  is  better  than  when  I  left  her  last  year. 

Mrs.  P.  Hamilton's  children  are  in  a  very  fair  way. 
Bushe  is  gone  to  spend  the  day  with  them,  and  we  dine 
with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lawe.  I  made  yours  and  Mr.  Dewes's 
compliments  to  him,  and  he  begs  a  thousand  acknow- 
ledgements to  you  for  all  favours,  particularly  the  meath,* 
which  was  of  great  service  to  him.  I  am  much  obUged 
to  Miss  Holyoak  for  her  kind  remembrance  of  me. 

The  Fables  were  bought  of  Mr.  Dodsley  in  Pall  Mall ; 
he  won't  scruple  changing  one  of  the  volumes  1  am  sure. 
Miss  P.'  was  married  at  St.  James's  Chapel,  as  you  know 
by  this,  on  the  20th  of  May.  So  now,  adieu.  Did  I  not 
tell  you  I  had  hopes  of  having  my  Mrs.  Hamilton  with 
me  for  ten  days  or  a  fortnight,  whilst  her  house  is  new 
painting  ?  D.D.  talks  of  going  to  the  North  soon :  and  if 
he  does  not  stay  long  I  shall  be  glad  to  be  excused  the 
jourpey. 


Mr%,  BfiUmy  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  13  June,  1747. 

I  must  begin  this  letter  with  making  an  apology  for 
D.D's  negligence  of  the  enclosed  letter,  which  he  sup- 
poses (for  he  has  quite  forgot)  was  given  him  at  Glou- 
cester for  my  mother,  and  the  short  stay  he  made  at 

*  Query  mead. 

■  Mary,  daughter  of  Brigadier-General  Price,  married,  in  May,  1747,  the 
Honble.  and  Revd.  Edward  Townshend,  fifth  son  of  Charles,  2nd  Viscount 
Townshend. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


464  LIFE  AND  CJORRESPONDENCE 

Welsboume  and  the  hurry  he  was  in  made  him  not  re- 
collect it  at  a  proper  time.  He  asks  my  mother  a  thou- 
sand pardons,  and  hopes  you  will  intercede  for  him,  and 
present  his  and  my  humble  duty. 

It  was  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  hear  of  my  brother's 
being  with  you,  and  of  his  being  well ;  I  have  not  heard 
from  him  since  I  came  to  Ireland.  I  don't  wonder  he 
was  pleased  with  Wroxton,  his  good  tastlB  must  make 
him  like  it ;  but  if  he  only  breakfasted  there,  he  could 
not  have  time  to  see  all  its  beauties. 

I  am  glad  Mr.  Dewes  wedding  ^  is  over,  and  his  trou- 
ble and  care  at  an  end.  I  had  a  letter  from  Cuz  Foley 
two  packets  ago,  with  an  account  of  Father  Foley's  being 
in  a  dangerous  way ;  I  imagine  by  this,  he  is  either  dead 
or  recovered,  for  he  could  not  last  long  in  the  way  he 
was  in  when  she  wrote ;  she  gave  an  account  of  his  illness 
with  her  usual  good-nature,  and  seemed  to  be  much 
affected  with  the  melancholy  scene.  I  pity  poor  Miss 
Foley,  though  I  beheve  the  old  gentleman's  peevishness, 
which  has  so  grown  upon  him  of  late,  will  make  his  death 
less  grievous.  Mrs.  Worsenham*  was  grown  weary  of 
the  tedious  winters  at  Stoke,  and  has  taken  a  house  at 
Worcester,  which  I  think  is  a  lucky  circumstance. 
My  Mrs.  Hamilton  has  promised  to  spend  a  fortnight 
with  me  here.  I  believe  she  will  come  to  me  the  week 
after  next.  Pray  have  you  been  with  Lady  Anne  Coven- 
try and  given  her  the  vase.  I  am  to-day  to  have  the  Bishop 
of  Clogher,  Mrs.  C.  and  niece,  Mr.  DonneUan,  his  lady  and 
daughters,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Marley.  Bushe  is  with  me,  and 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Greene ;  and  we  are  to  have  in  the  evening 


*  This  must  have  been  the  we<lding  of  a  ward  of  Mr.  Dewes. 
'  Qnery  Mrs.  Wolstenholme,  mother  of  Mr.  Foley's  third  wife. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  465 

a  large  party  at  nine  pins.  I  have  made  my  alley  very 
spruce,  and  sown  in  the  borders  some  of  the  flower-seeds 
I  brought  with  me  from  Welsboume, 

And  now  I  have  a  sad  tale  to  tell  you.  My  fine  cow, 
who  had  just  brought  me  a  fine  calf,  died  yesterday,  just 
in  the  same  manner  as  Fair  Face  ]  she  was  well  at  seven 
in  the  morning  and  grazing,  and  before  eight,  she  was 
found  fallen  into  a  ditch,  and  died  before  night,  very 
much  swelled.  The  wise  folks  think  it  was  some  poison- 
ous thing  that  she  had  eaten:  we  had  her  buried, 
skin  and  all,  and  her  skin  cut  cross  and  cross,  that  no- 
body might  be  tempted  to  dig  her  up.  I  hope  it  was 
nothing  infectious,  for  thank  God  this  country  has 
hitherto  escaped  the  sickness  among  the  cattle. 

Last  Wednesday  the  Archbishop  of  Dublin,  Dr.  Cobbe,^ 
and  Mrs.  Cobbe,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  McAulay,  dined  here, 
and  on  Thursday  we  dined  at  McAulays. 

D.D.  hath  been  engaged  these  three  days  past  to  hear 
the  examinations  at  the  college  for  fellowships,  which  they 
say  are  the  most  learned  of  all  the  university  examinations. 
I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  settle  to  painting ;  I  propose 
beginning  next  Wednesday,  but  I  have  a  terrible  long 
train  of  visits  to  return.  Yesterday  in  the  afternoon,  in 
the  midst  of  the  broiling  sun,  I  left  my  shady  Pearly 
Bower  to  make  visits.  What  a  mortification  !  but  civil- 
ities must  be  paid,  and  something  given  up  to  support 
society. 

Yesterday  morning  I  for  the  first  day  since  I  came 
worked  four  hours  at  7ni/  Quilty  and  Mr.  Greene  read  to 
us.    Bushe  painted,  and  Mrs.  Greene  made  a  night-gown 

'  Charles  Cobbe,  Archbishop  of  Dublin  from  1742  to  1766.     He  was  pre- 
viously Bishop  of  Kildare. 

VOL.  II.  2  H 


Digitized  by 


Google 


466  LIFE  AND  CJORRESPONDENCE 

for  the  little  boy.  One  day  next  week  we  are  to  go  a 
house-warming  to  her.  Mantna-makers  and  housekeeper, 
&c.,  call  me  away. 

I  suppose  you  have  seen  Mr.  Littleton  s  ^  verses  on  his 
wife,  but  least  you  should  not,  I  add  them,  for  I  think 
them  very  pretty  and  just. 

Made  to  engage  all  hearts,  to  charm  all  eyes, 
Though  weak  magnanimous,  though  witty  wise, 
Polite  as  all  her  life  in  courts  had  been, 
Tet  good  as  she  the  world  had  never  seen. 
The  nobler  fire  of  an  exalted  mind 
With  gentlest  female  tenderness  combined. 
Her  speech,  was  the  melodious  voice  of  love, 
Her  song  the  warbling  of  the  vernal  grove. 
Her  eloquence  was  sweeter  than  her  song, 
Soft  as  her  heart  and  as  her  virtue  strong. 
Her  form  the  beauty  of  her  mind  express'd. 
Her  mind  was  Virtue  by  the  Graces  drsBt 

If  you  have  not  read  his  letter  to  Mr.  Gilbert  West  on 
St.  Paul's  Conversion,  I  beg  you  will,  it  is  one  of  the  finest 
things  I  ever  read  in  my  life. 


Afrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Detoes,  at  WMnwrne. 

Delville,  20  June,  1747. 

How  my  vagabond  letter  came  to  be  put  into  the 
Maidstone  bag  instead  of  the  Kineton,  I  can't  imagine. 


^  George,  the  eldest  son  of  Sir  Thomas  L3rttelton,  of  Hagley,  in  Worcester- 
shire, was  bom  in  1709.  In  1741,  he  married  Miss  Lucy  Fortescne.  On  her 
death,  about  five  years  afterwards,  he  wrote  a  monody,  considered  the  best  of  his 
poetical  productions.  In  1747  he  gave  the  world  his  Observations  on  the 
Conversion  of  St.  Paul.  He  wrote  also  Dialogues  of  theDead^  Eistory  of 
Henry  IL^  &c.  Mr.  Lyttelton  held  many  important  offices  in  the  Govern* 
ment,  and  was  created  Lord  Lyttelton,  November,  1757.  He  died  August  22, 
1773. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  467 

I  am  glad  at  last  it  was  so  fortanate  as  to  find  a  safe 
harbour. 

I  am  very  glad  my  brother  hath  made  the  tour  of  your 
neighbourhood,  it  is  a  very  pleasant  one.  But  you  have 
not  named  Sir  Charles  Mordaunt,  which  makes  me  fear 
he  is  not  yet  well  enough  to  come  home.  I  am  very 
sorry  Mr.  Sherwood  has  had  a  return  of  his  disorder. 
I  trust,  without  my  making  frequent  repetition  of  y*  same, 
you  will  do  me  and  D.D.  justice  with  all  your  neigh- 
bours. Poor  Mr.  Fortescue's  death  was  very  shocking. 
I  am  sorry  Mr.  Dewes  has  had  so  many  interruptions 
and  calls  from  his  own  home ;  I  suppose  he  will  be 
obliged  to  go  to  London  soon. 

Last  Sunday  I  spent  at  home,  as  I  generally  do.  In 
the  afternoon  came  some  ladies  of  the  neighbourhood, 
and  Dowager  Lady  Kildare ;  on  Monday  Bushe  and  I 
made  visits  in  Dublin,  furiously  drest  out  in  all  our 
airs  !  I  caught  a  little  cold,  and  kept  at  home  quietly  all 
Tuesday ;  four  gentlemen  of  the  college  came  and  dined 
here,  and  not  one  day  have  I  yet  sat  down  to  dinner  with 
a  less  addition.  On  Wednesday  two  friends  of  Bushe's, 
and  old  acquaintances  of  mine  dined  here — Mrs.  Preston 
and  Mrs.  Dillon,  two  sisters,  and  two  young  she  Dillons. 
Mrs.  Dillon  went  by  the  name  of  "  Beauty  divine  "  when 
I  came  first  to  Lreland ;  fifteen  years  have  faded  her  bloom, 
but  not  ruffled  the  sweetness  of  her  countenance,  which  is 
still  pretty.  Mrs.  Preston  is  plain  in  her  person,  but  a 
sensible,  friendly,  good  woman;  I  have  promised  to 
make  her  a  visit  of  a  few  days  this  summer  when  D  D. 
returns,  it  lies  in  his  road  from  the  North,  and  I  shall 
meet  him  there.  On  Thursday  morning  I  painted.  I  am 
now  copying  "  Lady  Johanna  Thomhill,'*  and  have  King 
Charles  1st  again  to  copy  for  D.D.,  and  the  promise  of 

2  H  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


468 


LIFE  AN1>  CORRESPONDENCE 


a  fine  one  from  our  Lord  Primate  ;*  he  and  his  sister 
Mrs.  Stone,  and  the  Bishop  of  Derry/  and  Mrs.  Barnard, 
(another  sister  of  the  Primate's)  dine  here  to-day,  Tau 
love  a  hill  of  farCy  and  here  it  is. 

Second  CouBSB. 
Turkey  Pout. 
Salmou  Pick.  Sal. 

Grilde.    and  Qnulls. 
Little  Terrene  Peas.  Cream.  Musb-  Terrene. 
Apple  Pye.  rooms. 


FiBflT  COUBSB. 

Fish. 


Beef-  liabbits. 

steaks.   Soup,    and 
Onions. 

Fillet 

Veal. 


Blamange. 

Cherries. 

Butch 
Cheese. 


Crab. 

Debseet. 
Raspberries 
and  Cream. 
Sweetmeats 
and  Jelly. 
Strawberries 
and  Cream. 


Jjeveret.      Cheesecakes. 


Almond  Cream. 

Currant  and  Goose- 
berries. 

Orange  Butter. 


I  have  scratched  it  out  very  awkwardly,  and  hope  the 
servants  will  place  my  dinner  and  dessert  better  on  the 
table  than  I  have  on  paper.  I  give  as  little  hot  meat  as 
possible,  but  I  think  there  could  not  be  less,  considering 
the  grandees  that  are  to  be  here :  the  invitation  was  "  to 
beef  stakes"  which  we  are  famous  for.  Thursday  after- 
noon produced  a  visit  from  the  Duchess  of  Manchester,' 
Miss  Hervey,  and  Mr.  Phipps.  The  Duchess,  I  think, 
looks  just  as  she  has  done  for  ten  years — a  fine  figure,  well 
drest,  speaks  little,  but  rather  easier,  and  more  than  she 
used  to  do.  Various  conjectures  were  made  about  Miss 
Hervey's  looks  ;  she  was  pretty,  but  pale  and  wan,  'tis 
thought  she  is  married,  though  it  is  kept  a  secret.    Has  not 


'  George  Stone,  Primate  of  Ireland,  Archbishop  of  Armagh  from  1747  to 
1765.    He  was  previously  Bishop  of  Deny. 

«  William  Barnard,  Bishop  of  Derry  from  1747  to  1768. 

'  Robert,  3rd  Duke  of  Manchester,  married  Harriet,  daughter  and  co-heir  of 
Edmund  Dunch,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANT.  469 

the  Duchess  of  Queensberry's  appearing  again  at  Court 
surprized  you  ?  I  suppose  it  was  to  thank  the  King  for 
giving  her  son  leave  to  raise  a  regiment  in  Scotland?  I 
have  sent  your  ring  by  Mrs.  Dillon,  who  sets  sail  to- 
morrow for  England,  directed  to  Mrs.  Donnellan,  and 
have  desired  her  to  give  it  Mr.  Dewes  if  in  town,  or  send 
it  to  Mr.  Clifton.  I  hope  you  will  have  it  safe.  I  would 
not  have  such  rare  favours  lost. 

Yesterday  we  spent  a  very  pleasant  day  in  the  country 
with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Lawe  at  their  bleach  yard,  9  miles 
oflF,  near  the  famous  salmon  leap  of  Leixlip.^  They  have  a 
pretty  cabin  there,  and  gave  us  some  fine  trout  caught 
out  of  their  own  brook  just  at  their  door,  that  were 
excellent,  and  many  other  good  things.  I  wished  you 
there,  it  was  so  new  a  scene ;  and  the  men  at  work  lay- 
ing out  the  cloth,  &c.,  on  the  grass  fall  in  our  view  was 
very  pretty ;  the  machine  for  rinsing  the  clothes  is 
very  curious.  The  happiness  and  good  humour  of  the 
Master  and  Mistress,  and  the  industry  going  forward 
was  an  agreeable  and  rational  entertainment.  Mr.  Lawe 
drank  your  health,  and  talks  every  time  I  see  him  of  your 
civility  and  your  charming  children.  As  we  returned 
home  we  called  at  Mr.  Conolly's  house  at  Leixlip,  and 
walked  in  his  gardens ;  they  are  on  the  top  of  a  hill  that 
winds  round  the  river  Li%,  laid  out  into  fine  large  grass 
walks  well  planted,  and  set  with  all.  sort  of  forest  trees 


»  Leixlip  Castle  was  erected  by  Adam  Fitz  Hereford,  one  of  the  Anglo- 
Norman  conquerors.  Its  antique  towers,  mantled  with  ivy,  rise  above  the 
surrounding  trees  and  river.  Immediately  adjoining  Leixlip  is  the  salmon 
leap,  where  the  Lififey,  falling  over  a  ledge  of  rocks,  forms  a  beautiful  cascade, 
up  which  the  fish  at  certain  seasons  are  seen  to  spring.  The  tower  of  Leixlip 
is  in  the  county  of  Kildare,  and  situated  on  the  river  Liffey,  about  ten  miles 
from  Dublin.    Near  Leixlip  is  Celbridgo,  where  Vanessa  died. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


470  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  flowering  shrubs ;  openings  here  and  there  that  show 
the  river  so  far  below  you  that  it  is  almost  horrible.  A 
winding  path  and  steps  by  degrees  carry  you  down  to  a 
winding  terrace  by  the  river  side  above  a  mile  long ; 
every  step  there  shows  you  some  new  wild  beauty  of 
wood,  rocks,  and  cascades. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

(Believed  to  be  July  IXtk)  1747. 

How  negligent  and  forgetful  was  I  not  to  send  Mr. 
Dewes  the  above  note  before,  and  now  I  suppose  he  is  in 
London.  My  mother  is  very  good  in  forgiving  the  Dean 
for  keeping  Miss  Viney's  letter  so  long ;  he  is  thoroughly 
sensible  of  all  her  indulgence  to  him,  and  we  botii  beg 
our  most  affectionate  duty. 

I  suppose  there  will  (till  privilege  of  Parliament  comes 
in  again)  be  a  general  stagnation  of  correspondency.  For 
my  own  part  I  write  to  no  body  for  constant  but  to  you 
and  the  Duchess  of  Portland  and  Donnellan.  I  had  a 
letter  last  post  from  Cuz  Fo.,  and  find  Father  Foley  is 
much  better.  I  am  much  obliged  to  my  dear  little  Court 
for  desiring  I  should  have  Finch,  but  to  make  him  easy 
pray  let  him  know  I  have  got  two  cows  still.  I  thank  you, 
my  dear,  for  your  good  accounts  of  Pauline,  but  I  am 
better  pleased  to  hear  of  her  sense  and  sprightliness  than 
of  her  beauty ;  though  I  hope  she  will  not  want  as  much 
of  that  as  is  necessary  to  give  a  pleasing  impression — not 
a  rapturous  one,  for  that  may  prove  more  to  her  unhcyjpi' 
fiess  than  happiness.  How  can  that  strange  Sir  H.  persist 
in  his  unreasonable  design  on  the  fair  Catherine  ?  His 
excuse  is  dotage !    I  hear  a  very  good  account  of  Mrs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  471 

Lambert,  the  Duchess  of  Portland  has  been  there  and 
much  pleased  with  their  behaviour  to  one  another.  How 
goes  on  Mr.  Dewes's  daughter  ^  with  her  marriage  ?  We 
are  very  busy  in  settling  all  my  drawers  of  shells,  sorting 
and  cleaning  them.  I  have  a  new  cabinet  with  whole 
glass  doors  and  glass  on  the  side  and  shelves  within,  of 
whimsical  shapes,  to  hold  all  my  beaiUies.  One  large 
drawer  underneath  for  the  register  drawer,  and  my  little 
chest  of  drawers  I  have  placed  in  my  closet  within  my 
bedchamber,  from  whence  I  send  you  this  letter.  How 
blest  should  I  be  could  we  have  a  tete-a-tete  in  it  with 
you !  it  is  calculated  for  that  purpose,  being  retired  from 
all  interruption  and  eaves-droppers.  On  Monday  next  we 
dine  at  the  Primate's  and  in  the  afternoon  I  shall  visit 
grandees  (so  that  will  be  a  whole  day  lost)  with  Mrs. 
Hamilton,  which  I  cannot  help.  The  Dean  goes  away 
for  a  month  at  least ;  he  has  just  bought  a  pair  of  mares, 
young  and  good  serviceable  animals,  but  not  so  handsome 
as  Jackson  and  Nancy. 

I  have  written  to  Lady  Sarah  Cowper,  but  have  not 
heard ;  writing  is  I  fear  troublesome  to  her,  for  which 
reason  I  will  be  moderate  in  my  demands  on  her.  She 
used  to  write  to  me  once  a  month,  but  now  I  would 
compound  for  once  a  quarter ;  she  has  starved  me  into 
that  compliance. 

An  interval  here  occurs  in  the  coirespondence,  which  is  accounted 
for  by  the  death  of  Mrs.  Granville,  whose  ilbiess  must  have  been 
veiy  short,  if  indeed  she  had  any  illness,  as  she  died  in  August, 
and  Mrs.  Delany  sends  a  message  to  her  mother  in  the  above  letter, 
without  the  slightest  allusion  to  any  indisposition.     Mrs.  Delany  and 


'  "  Mr.  Dewes's  (laughter  "  must  have   been  a  goddaughter,  and  ward  of 
Mr.  Dewcs. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


472  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs.  Dewes  were  so  devotedly  attached  to  Mrs.  GranviUe,  that  the 
letters  which  passed  must  have  been  very  painful  on  this  occasion  ; 
and  it  is  most  probable  that  finding  on  re-perusal  they  only  renewed 
their  grief,  that  both  sisters  destroyed  them.  The  oral  tradition 
which  must  be  authentic  (as  it  came  immediately  6tom  Mr&  Delany 
herself  to  the  Editor  s  mother)  is  that  Mrs.  Granville  died  on  her 
knees  in  the  act  of  Baying  her  prayen^  and  that  she  had  often  ex- 
pressed her  wish  that  she  might  thus  die ;  the  stool  at  which  she 
was  kneeling  is  still  preserved,  and  Mrs.  Delany  said  it  was  always 
used  by  her  mother  for  that  purpose.  It  is  high,  the  1^  are 
black  like  ebony,  of  a  curious  ancient  form,  and  it  is  covered  with 
needle-work,  the  pattern  of  which  is  still  perceptible.  The  letters 
of  Mrs.  Delany  which  are  preserved  recommence  two  months  after 
Mrs.  Granville's  death,  and  for  some  time  are  more  a  diary  than  a 
correspondence ;  but  as  they  contain  an  exact  picture  of  her  daily 
life  in  Ireland  with  her  associates  there,  and  are  intermingled  with 
records  of  circumstances,  they  could  not  be  omitted  without  destroy* 
ing  so  many  of  the  links  in  the  chain  of  her  existence  as  would 
frustrate  the  object  of  this  work,  which  is  to  trace  her  from  her 
earliest  years  to  her  death  under  all  the  varied  scenes  in  which  she 
so  admirably  adapted  herself  to  the  duties  of  the  present  time,  en- 
joying to  the  uttermost  everything  in  her  power  that  could  worthily 
be  enjoyed,  and  contributing  to  the  happiness  of  all  around  her. 
The  following  diary  (letters)  will  therefore  follow  in  their  proper 
order. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  6  Oct.,  1747. 

I  have  had  the  joy  and  satisfaction  of  hearing  yon  had 
passed  your  ninth  day  very  well,  and  I  am  much  obliged 
to  your  kind  nurse,  Miss  Nancy  Viney,  for  the  good 
account  she  sent  me/     The  morning  has  been  fair,  and 

*  It  appears,  from  this  acknowledgment  of  a  letter  from  Miss  N.  Viney, 
that  Mrs.  Dewes  was  at  Gloucester,  where  she  must  have  remained  after  her 
mother's  funeral  for  her  own  confinement. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


.  'c^.:^s/'^   Br^y,  /. 


Ik^m    ^^^:.kAV^^  ILLE. 


'\  -I^.M.:  h 


V.Tl'J^".lC.0l 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


^o^ 


le 


OF  MRS.  DELANY  473 

tempted  me  to  stay  longer  in  my  garden  than  I  designed, 
and  I  received  a  present  of  two  pair  of  beautiful  shell- 
drakes,  and  have  been  settling  them  in  their  bounds — a 
pretty  field  called  the  Siar-Jield,  joining  to  my  garden, 
with  a  little  pond  in  it.  They  have  for  companions 
a  colt  and  a  barnacle.  Upon  the  strength  of  your 
being  so  well  my  spirits  rose,  and  last  Friday  I  went  to 
the  Castle  to  pay  my  respects  to  my  Lord  Lieutenant ; 
he  recollected  me,  and  talked  more  than  came  to  my 
share,  but  of  indifferent  matters  not  worth  repeating. 
There  I  met  Mr.  Chamneys,^  and  claimed  aquaintance 
with  him,  engaged  him  to  eat  beefstakes  with  me  on 
Saturday,  which  he  did ;  he  is  a  good-humoured  man, 
who  talks  of  his  wife  with  great  tenderness,  which  has 
won  D.D.'s  heart. 

My  agreeable  companion,  Bushe,  is  going  from  me  to 
her  own  lodging  in  Dublin.  She  will  be  a  great  loss 
to  me ;  her  friendly  heart  and  ingenious  turn  of  mind 
make  her  very  engaging,  but  she  has  mant/  friends 
that  wish  to  have  a  share  of  her  company,  and  as  I  am 
no  friend  to  monopolizing,  I  can't  and  must  not  murmur 
at  their  enjoying  a  pleasure  I  am  so  sensible  of.  I  have 
made  her  promise  to  spend  her  Xtmas  with  me ;  the 
latter  end  of  this  month  Mrs.  Forde  (the  root)  and  her 
daughter  come  here  to  stay  some  time  ;  I  shall  be  very 
glad  of  their  company.  Old  Mrs.  Forde  is  a  very  agree- 
able, as  well  as  a  very  good  woman ;  and  they  know  I 
must  follow  my  own  occupations,  which  I  shall  do 
without  ceremony.     Next  week  I  shall  take  again  to  my 


*  \Villiam  Chamneys,  Esq.,  oiic  of  the  commissioners  of  the  revenue  in 
Ireland.     He  married  January  2l8t,  1750,  Miss  Sophia  D'Aeth. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


474  LIFE  AND  CORBESPONDENCE 

painting;  I  should  have  done  it  this,  but  poor  Mrs. 
Barber  was  so  very  ill,  Mrs.  Nuens*  could  not  leave  her. 
I  have  had  an  account  from  Mrs.  Eena,  at  Chester,  of 
her  having  sent  on  board  one  of  our  merchant-ships  the 
case  with  Lord  Sandwich's  picture. 

We  are  going  to  be  very  busy  in  settling  the  library. 
The  Dean  has  made  an  addition  at  the  end  of  it  of  a 
sort  of  closet,  to  which  you  ascend  by  one  step ;  it  opens 
with  an  arch,  five  foot  and  a-half  wide ;  there  is  to  be  a 
window  at  the  end  which  is  east,  and  on  the  south  side^ 
opposite  to  the  south  window,  there  is  to  be  looking- 
glass  representing  a  sash  window,  which  wiU  reflect  the 
prospect,  and  prevent  the  cold  of  the  north  :  it  is  to  be  all 
stucco,  and  adorned  with  pilasters,  a  table  in  the  middle 
for  writing  and  holding  papers,  and  only  convenient 
room  left  for  going  round  it  and  for  seats.  The  old  part 
of  the  library  is  32  feet  long,  and  about  11  wide;  it 
holds  a  great  many  books,  and  when  finished  will  be 
very  pleasant ;  the  prospect  from  the  new  window  charm- 
ing. How  often  shall  I  wish  for  you  to  help  me  to  settle 
the  books — an  employment  you  always  were  fond  of; 
here  you  would  meet  some  that  would  amuse  you  very 
well.     The  addition  is  12ft.  square. 

Have  you  ever  met  with  Mons'  Saurin's*  History  of 
the  Bible,  with  cuts  done  by  Picart,  Houbraken,  and 
others  ;  it  is  esteemed  a  very  learned  and  curious  book.  I 
never  saw  it  till  last  week  that  I  found  it  in  the  library. 


1  Mrs.  Nuens  lised  to  grind  Mrs.  Delany's  colours. 

»  James  Saiirin,  a  very  celebrated  preacher,  bom  at  Nismes,  1677,  died 
1730.  He  published  several  works ;  amongst  others,  Discourses,  Historical, 
Critical,  aud  Moral,  on  the  most  Memorable  Events  of  the  Old  and  New  Testa- 
ment: Haye,  1735-39.  6  vols.,  fol.  There  is  also  an  edition  in  11  vols., 
«vo. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  475 

but  the  cuts  are  not  so  fine  nor  so  laborious  as  those  in 
Physique  Sacre. 

Do  you  remember  the  story  of  Madame  de  Gondez  ?^ 
I  have  been  reading  it  again  lately,  and  am  extremely 
pleased :  what  a  fine  deUcate  character  is  Disenteuils  ! 
'tis  a  story  that  furnishes  a  winter's  evening  conference 
very  agreeably,  the  many  pretty  and  uncommon  charac- 
ters that  are  in  it,  and  the  charming  sentiments.  The 
Fairy  Tales  (of  which  we  have  borrowed  eight  volumes) 
have  their  share  of  entertaining  us.  Don't  you  think 
we  are  well  occupied  ?  The  mind  is  sometimes  not  dis- 
posed to  attend  to  things  of  consequence,  and  may  be 
amused  by  trifles. 

Miss  Bushe  desires  particular  compliments ;  Miss  M. 
B^amilton  desires  I  will  let  Master  Dewes  know  she  will 
answer  his  letter ;  she  has  (she  thinks)  written  a  first  copy 
of  a  very  good  one,  but  her  mama  thought  fit  to  burn  it, 
and  she  is  afraid  she  shall  ^'  never  write  so  good  a  one 
again/' 


Mrs.  Ddcmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes,  at  QloucesUr. 

DclviUe,  13  Oct,  1747, 

I  am  very  sorry  good  Mr.  Dewes  should  have  any- 
thing to  disturb  and  distress  him,  and  in  the  infirm  way 
Mr.  Dewes  is  in,  I  should  fear  a  fever  might  be  fatal. 
Where  is  Mrs.  Holyoc^  and  her  daughter  ?  I  am  glad  the 
little  Bevil  is  well,  and  the  rest  of  your  fair  flock.     Miss 


^  LaCk>inte88e  de  Gondez,  1727,  by  Maigaiet  de  Lassau,  a  romance  writer 
of  some  eminence,  bom  in  Franco  1682,  died  1758. 

3  Mary,  the  only  sister  of  Mr.  Dewes,  married,  John  Hoi  voake,  of  Morton 
Bagot,  Esq ,  in  the  oounty  of  Warwick. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


476  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Viney  I  reckon  has  been  very  happy  in  having  her  uncle 
with  her*  The  Bishop  of  Clogher  and  Mrs.  Clayton  are 
come  to  town  ;  I  went  to  see  them  yesterday  morning: 

Yesterday  Dr.  Carmichael/  the  Bishop  of  Down*  and 
his  sister,  dined  here ;  Dr.  Car.  and  his  lady  are  two  good- 
humoured  prating  people,  who  were  in  raptures  with 
Delville ;  they  gave  me  a  long  account  of  my  sister 
GranviUey^  who  lives  within  two  miles  of  them  in  Bucking- 
hamshire, she  is  very  well,  fat,  and  handsome.  Her 
mother  and  brother  Dick  Bose  are  dead,  Tom  just  married, 
and  they  give  him  the  character  of  a  very  honest 
good  humoured  man,  his  sister  lives  with  him,  and  is 
neither  '*  mad  "  nor  "  married,'*  though  both  were  reported 
of  her.  I  will  send  you  two  pounds  of  knitting  thread  the 
first  opportunity ;  I  hope  the  pictures  from  Newefiham  to 
Dublin  wiU  come  safe.  I  suppose  my  brother  will  mourn 
the  old  mourning,  I  shall,  as  I  am  at  such  a  distance ;  I 
have  put  my  own  maid  and  housekeeper  into  mourning, 
and  D.D.  has  put  his  own  servant  out  of  livery  into  mourn- 
ing, though  it  is  not  now  a  general  fashion,  but  as  it  is  a 
mark  of  respect  D.D;  thought  it  right  to  do  so,  and  we  are 
now  of  a  time  of  life  to  indulge  the  dictates  of  the  heart 
more  than  the  reigning  fashions. 

I  shall  pity  poor  Mrs.  Viney  extremely  when  you  leave 
Gloucester,  and  that  house  desolated  that  has  been  so  great 


1  Dr.  William  Carmichael,  second  son  of  James,  2nd  Earl  of  Hyndford. 
Dr.  Carmichael  was  appointed  Archdeacon  of  Bucks  in  1742.  He  married  in 
August  1734,  Mrs.  GodschalL 

*  Dr.  John  Ryder,  Bishop  of  Down  from  1743  to  1762,  when  he  was  pro- 
moted to  the  Archbishopric  of  Tuam,  and  died  1775. 

'  The  widow  of  her  brother  Bevil,  whose  marriage  has  never  been  alluded  to 
in  any  letter  in  the  Editor's  jiossession,  and  which  marriage  was  undoubtedly 
against  the  consent  of  the  family ;  all  that  is  known  is  that  her  name  was  Sose, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  477 

a  comfort  to  her,  it  mil  he  sad ;  and  I  own  I  feel  my 
tenderness  towards  her  greatly  increased  since  the  mutual 
loss  we  have  had.  I  wish  Sir  Anthony  may  be  prevailed 
on  to  do  something  for  poor  Patty .^  I  used  to  allow  her 
one  guinea  a  year  I  will  now  allow  her  two,  Mr.  Wise,* 
I  believe,  is  in  easy  circumstances  enough. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Denies. 

Delville,  20  Oct.  1747. 

I  was  not  at  all  surprized  with  the  account  your  last 
letter  brought  me,  for  as  soon  as  I  heard  of  your  Mr. 
Dewes's  being  sent  for  I  thought  it  most  likely  it 
should  end  as  it  has  done.  I  am  truly  sorry  for  any 
affliction  that  can  befall  my  good  brother  D. ;  though  this 
is  what  he  must  have  been  prepared  for,  and  had  more 
reason  to  have  expected  sooner  than  not.  The  unhappy 
unhealthy  way  Mr.  Dewes  had  been  in  for  years,  and  the 
little  comfort  and  enjoyment  he  had  of  this  world,  with 
the  consideration  of  the  happiness  so  good  a  man  must 
enjoy  in  the  next,  I  hope  wiU  have  their  due  weight  as 
soon  as  the  first  melancholy  scenes  are  over,^ 

I  am  glad  my  brother  GranviUe  designs  to  go  to  town 
so  soon ;  Calwich  is  too  solitary  in  the  winter  for  one  of 
his  turn  of  mind,  or  indeed  for  any  single  body.  We 
were  bom  for  some  society ;  it  refines  our  manners,  it  keeps 
up  our  good  humour,  and  without  it  we  should  grow 


•  Probably  an  old  (Wesoorab)  pensioner  of  Mrs.  Granville's, 
t  Probably  an  old  servant  of  Mrs.  Granville's. 

*  Court,  tbe  eldest  brother  of  Mrs.  Delany's  brother-in-law,  died  at  this 
poriod. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


478  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

rusty  and  intractable.  I  suppose  Sir  Ed.  Stan.*  was  out  of 
town  at  his  country-seat  when  you  wrote  to  him  about 
being  gossip.  If  Mr.  B.  does  not  make  good  his  promise 
to  Miss  V.  he  has  done  her  a  great  deal  of  wrong :  it 
is  cruel  to  feed  up  any  one  with  hopes  and  not  gratify 
them,  especially  one  who  has  a  strong  relish  to  worldly 
affairs. 

Tour  account  of  the  D.  and  Dss  of  D.  is  very  sur- 
prizing ;  after  so  many  years  of  love  and  friendship,  and 
so  many  children  grown  up,  all  affectionate  and  fond  of 
one  another,  it  is  a  madness  not  to  be  accounted  for.  This 
morning  I  was  delighted  with  seeing  the  rising  sun  as  I 
lay  in  my  bed,  rising  above  a  tuft  of  trees  that  fiuje  my 
window.  Our  garden  is  still  in  high  beauty,  our  elms 
as  green  as  ever,  and  the  evei^eens  are  in  perfection. 
We  have  a  great  number  of  holly  trees  in  our  ever- 
green grove,  and  they  are  now  full  of  red  berries,  and 
look  very  rich — ^Why  are  you  not  here  to  see  them? 

D.D.  is  going  this  morning  to  the  Castle  to  ask  the 
L"^  Lieut^  to  breakfast  here ;  he  said  he  designed  coming, 
and  I  think  it  best  to  settle  the  day. 

I  think  black  bombazeen  will  do  very  well  in  a  sack. 
I  have  one  in  a  manteau  and  petticoat  which  I  wear  when 
in  full  dress,  at  home  a  dark  grey  poplin,  and  abroad, 
undrest,  a  dark  grey  unwatered  tabby :  I  shall  make  no 
more  dark  things ;  afber  three  months  black  silk  is  worn 
with  love  hood,  and  black  glazed  gloves,  for  three  months 


1  Sir  Edward  Stanley,  Bart.,  ancestor  of  Lord  Stanley,  of  Alderiey.  He  mar- 
ried Mary,  only  daughter  of  Thomas  Ward,  Esq.,  and  died  in  1756.  Sir  E. 
Stanley  has  been  frequently  mentioned  as  '*  Ned  Stanley  **  before  he  succeeded 
his  brother  Sir  James  Stanley  in  1746. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRB.  DELANY.  479 

more ;  your  mourning  must  be  the  same  for  Mr.  Dewes 
of  Mapleborougli.^ 

I  am  very  glad  the  Duchess  of  Leeds  *  is  so  well  and 
has  a  son. 


Mr8,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

DelviUe,  28  Oct.  1747. 

I  hope  Mr.  Dewes  will  find  all  afiairs  well  and  in  an 
easy  way,  and  as  he  always  .shewed  his  brother  great 
friendship  and  kindness  on  all  occasions  that  he  has 
returned  it  in  the  best  manner  he  could.  On  Tuesday 
the  Dean  went  to  the  Castle  to  ask  my  L"^  L^  to  name  a 
day  for  breakfasting  here.  Thursday  was  named.  On 
Wednesday  we  dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Down's  and  met 
Dr.  and  Mrs.  Carmichael ;  in  the  evening  I  went  to  my 
kind  friend  Mrs.  Hamilton,  who  is  as  much  attached  to 
you  as  it  is  possible  for  one  who  does  not  know  you 
personally. 

I  made  but  a  short  visit  in  Anne  Street,  from  thence 
made  formal  ones,  and  appointed  Bushe  to  meet  me  at 
Lady  Tullamore's '  (who  keeps  Wednesdays)  that  I  might 
carry  her  home  with  me,  for  I  had  a  mind  to  give  her  an 
opportxmity  of  seeing  Lord  Harrington,^  and  she  has  for 
some  time  given  up  going  to  the  Castle.   Thursday  very 

'  These  diiections  about  mourning  are  curious,  and  prove  that "  grey  poplin  '* 
and  '*ffrey  unwatered  tabby  ^*  were  oonadered  deeper  than  black  silk. 

*  Mary,  daughter  to  Francis,  Earl  of  Gkxlolphin,  married  in  1740,  to  Thomas, 
4th  Duke  of  Leeds.  Their  only  surviving  son,  Francis  Godolphin,  5th  Duke, 
was  not  bom  till  the  29th  January,  1751. 

3  Charles,  2nd  Baron  Moore,  of  Tullamoore,  married  in  1737,  Hester, 
daughter  of  James  Goghill,  Esq. 

*  William,  Earl  of  Harrington,  Lord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  September  13, 
1747. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


480  LIFE  AND  COBRESFONDEKCE  ; 

lucidly  proved  a  fine  day ;  I  had  breakfiisfc  piepored  in  the 
drawing-room ;  the  L.Lt  came,  with  Sir  John  Cope '  and 
the  Obtain  of  the  Ghiard  in  waiting,  at  half  an  hcmr  after 
eleven ;  the  Dean  met  him  at  the  streebdoor  and  I  at  the 
bottom  of  the  stairs ;  when  he  came  in  the  drawing*ioom 
and  saw  Miss  Boshe,  he  asked  me  if  he  had  ever  seen 
that  lady  ?  I  told  him  her  name,  and  that  her  ill  health 
would  not  allow  her  to  pay  her  respects  to  him  at  the 
Castle,  upon  which  he  very  politely  saluted  her;  he 
seemed  much  pleased  with  the  place.  The  Dean  was  in 
good  spirits,  and  exerted  himself  to  entertain  him,  so 
that  it  made  the  time  pass  easy  and  agreeably.  He  walked 
into  all  my  rooms  on  that  floor,  commended  everything, 
and  said  he  must  see  the  garden.  About  one  we  walked 
into  the  garden  but  Sir  J.  Cope  whispered  me  and  begged 
I  would  not  let  him  walk  much,  for  he  had  not  ventured  to 
walk  at  all  since  his  coming  to  Ireland ;  he  walked  as  far 
as  to  see  the  compass  of  the  garden,  and  then  we  insisted 
upon  his  returning,  which  he  did ;  when  he  came  back 
we  conducted  him  to  the  Minerva,  and  he  seemed  vay 
glad  of  a  seat.  He  was  much  amused  with  the  medley  of 
gimcracks  that  it  contains,  and  at  half  an  hour  after  two 
left  us. 

In  the  afternoon  I  carried  Miss  Bushe  home,  and 
brought  back  Mrs.  Forde  and  her  daughter.  We  have 
been  under  some  concern  for  poor  Eupy  Barber,  who  has 
had  a  most  desperate  sore  throat,  but  is  recovered.  He 
was  two  days  so  bad  he  could  neither  swallow,  nor  speak 
to  be  understood ;  but  fig-wnter  has  cured  him.     Tester- 


^  Sir  John  Cope,  Bart.,  M.P.  for  Hants  in  four  sucoessive  parliaments,  in 
the  reigns  of  Qaeen  Anne,  and  in  that  of  Greorge  IL  He  4ied  at  Bnunf^l, 
Hants,  in  December,  1749. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  481 

day  we  dined  in  town  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Preston,  great 
friends  of  Bushe's.  She  met  ns  there,  and  in  the  afternoon 
we  all  made  a  visit  to  Mrs.  O'Hara,  a  clever,  sprightly, 
little,  old  lady,  sister  to  Lord  Tirawley,  who  has  his  wit 
with  the  addition  of  a  very  good  heart.  She  visited  me 
this  summer,  I  was  not  acquainted  with  her  before. 
Lady  Grandison  and  her  son  are  well;  she  has  now 
lain  in  a  fortnight  and  the  family  are  in  great  joy.  She 
has  had  four  children,  and  none  alive  btit  this  hoy. 

This  evening  I  go  to  town  to  make  my  compliments 
to  my  Lord  Lieutenant  for  the  honour  he  did  us 
There  hath  not  been  a  drawing-room  since  he  was  here, 
for  last  Friday  (the  usual  Castle-day),  was  a  festival  that 
nothing  could  put  by,  and  that  always  occasions  a  pro- 
digious rout  and  confusion  at  the  Castle — the  anniversary 
of  the  bish  rebellion.  There  is  open  house  kept  that 
day,  and  a  vast  dessert,  and  after  the  dinner  is  over 
the  common  people  are  let  in  to  carry  off  all  that  remains 
both  of  dinner  and  dessert ;  you  may  imagine  what  a 
notable  scramblement  it  occasions. 


Mn.  Dda/ny  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

Delville,  22  Dec.,  1747. 

We  have  a  melancholy  scene  now  before  us,  that  has 
affected  the  Dean  and  me  very  sensibly,  and  I  fear  will 
you.  Poor  old  Mrs.  Barber  has  struggled  for  six  weeks 
past  with  a  disorder  that  I  doubt  must  prove  fatal  to 
her;  her  children,  as  they  have  great  reason^  are  in 
the  utmost  distress.  Poor  Myra  (who  is  in  a  deplorable 
way)  and  the  youngest  son  Lucius  Barber,  were  entirely 

VOL.  II.  2  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


482  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCB 

maintamed  by  her  and  Betty  Woddal,  who  has  the  care 
of  Myra.  I  am  sorry  to  send  you  so  affecting  an  account 
of  an  old  friend^  that  has  given  us  both  a  great  deal  of 
pleasure,  and  who  had  truly  many  amiable  qualities, 
but  it  is  certain  she  will  have  a  happy  release  £rom  a  painAil 
life,  which  for  some  years  past  she  could  have  no  great 
enjoyment  of. 

In  return  for  your  account  of  Mr.  Creswell  I  can  send 
you  two  stories  that  will  match  it  pretty  well.  One  is 
of  a  young  lady,  youngest  daughter  to  a  Captain  John- 
ston here,  a  very  pretty  girl  just  sixteen,  who  ran  away 
on  Friday  night  with  Sir  Bobert  King,  a  vile  young  rake 
of  a  considerable  fortune  in  this  country.  They  went  off 
on  Friday  night ;  the  father  pursued  and  overtook  them 
on  Saturday  morning,  held  a  pistol  at  the  knight's  head, 
swore  he  would  shoot  him  through  the  head  if  he  did  not 
instantly  marry  his  daughter,  which  rather  than  die  he 
consented  to  do.  A  parson  was  ready  and  called  in,  bat 
Sir  B.  K's  servants  rushed  in  at  the  same  time,  gave 
him  a  pistol,  and  an  opportunity  of  escaping,  which  he 
did,  and  left  the  forlorn  damsel  to  return  with  her  father. 
They  all  appeared  at  church  in  Dublin  on  Sunday  morning, 
and  the  girl  appears  at  all  public  places  as  unconcerned 
and  brazen  as  if  she  had  acted  the  most  prudent  part  in 
the  world. 

The  other  story  is  indeed  much  more  notorious  and 
shocking.  You  don  t  know  any  of  the  people,  so  I  shall 
not  name  names,  but  a  gentleman's  daughter  who  has 
for  several  years  borne  an  extremely  good  character,  about 
twenty-six  years  of  age,  has  managed  her  &ther's  house 
with  great  prudence,  and  always  shewn  a  great  tenderness 
for  him  on  all  occasions,  has  gone  off  with  the  school- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MBS.  DELANY.  483 

master  of  the  parish,  a  clergyman  who  has  been  married 
several  years,  and  his  wife  a  very  'good  kind  of  woman ! 
He  7WW  says\M^  never  was  married  to  her,  and  accuses  her 
with  carrying  on  an  intrigue  with  the  lady's  father  and 
brother  that  has  run  away  with  him!  These  are  sad 
strokes  in  a  family !  how  much  less  is  the  death  of  a 
dear  friend  to  be  lamented  than  such  wicked  conduct ! 

Yesterday  morning  I  expected  Lady  Kildare  and  Mrs. 
Vesey  to  breakfast  with  me,  but  Lord  Kildare  would  not 
let  her  venture  so  far.  We  dined  at  Mrs.  Forde's,  who 
is  now  happy,  having  in  her  house  eleven  children  and 
grandchildren ;  I  called  on  my  Mrs.  Hamilton,  and  found 
her  and  the  rest  of  our  set  together,  and  all  well.  Bushe 
comes  to  me  to-morrow  to  spend  her  Xtmas.  I  am  veiy 
sorry  to  find  by  the  papers,  that  our  cousin  Foley  has  lost 
his  place  in  Parliament. 

Mrs,  Dewes  to  Mrs,  DeUmy, 

Welsboume,  Wednesday,  10th  Feb.,  1747-8. 

I  have  been  really  fretting  all  this  week  that  my 
dearest  sister  should  be  uneasy  by  not  receiving  the 
packets  she  expected.  I  am  sure  were  the  art  of  writing 
unknown  my  loss  would  be  infinitely  greater  than  yours — 
I  mean  in  regard  to  our  mutual  letters.  How  happy  am 
I  to  have  my  thoughts  correspond  so  exactly  to  yours  as 
they  have  done  of  late,  though  it  is  natural  that  the  mme 
cause  should  raise  correspondent  ideas,  and  our  hearts 
have  been  very  equally  affected  by  the  late  sad  occurrence ; 
but  indeed  I  agree  that  it  would  be  as  cruel  as  it  is  vain 
to  wish  our  dear  friend  here  agauiy  thoxigh  in  some  hours  of 
meakness  I  own  I  do.   1  hope  you  never  will  suppress 

2i  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


484  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

any  thought  when  you  are  talking  to  me,  for  that  unre- 
served freedom  between  us  has  constituted  the  greatest 
part  of  our  happiness,  and  more  happiness  surely  two 
friends  never  felt  than  we  have  done,  and  I  am  persuaded 
shall  continue  to  enjoy  till  the  great  and  sad  separation — 
far  be  that  fatal  hour !  I  must  again  repeat  my  desire 
that  you  will  never  suppress  one  of  your  thoughts  nor 
actions,  especially  those  you  most  delight  in;  which  I 
love  to  hear,  as  they  are  not  only  a  joy  but  an  example  to 
me ;  for  though  Solomon  says  it  in  a  different  sense, ''  as 
iron  sharpeneth  iron,"  &c.,  yet  it  will  hold  in  this,  that  the 
good  actions  of  those  we  love  excite  ia  us  the  desire  of 
doing  like  them.  To  show  this,  though  in  a  small  instance : 
the  morning  I  received  your  last  letter  (which  vras 
Monday)  Mr.  Dewes  was  goir^  to  Mapleburrough,  but 
desired  the  pleasure  of  reading  your  letter  before  he  set 
out,  and  he  enjoyed  it  for  almost  an  hour.  He  then  said, 
"  There  never  was  in  the  world  a  person  so  excellmt  as 
Mrs,  Delany  in  every  respect  of  mind  and  person ;  and  the 
Dean  too,  how  good  I  that  poor  gardener  I  to  make  his  last 
numierUs  so  comfortable  to  him ;"  and  then  he  said  to  me, 
"  You  won't  forget  to  let  clothes  be  made  for  the  poor 
child  at  Niniveh  you  said  was  in  so  sad  a  condition"  Now 
was  not  that  design  quickened  by  the  consideration  of 
your  ways  ?  therefore  scruple  not  to  repeat  them  con- 
tinually. Mr.  Dewes  has  a  truly  charitable  and  good 
heart,  and  you  will  esteem  him  greatly  for  his  late  conduct 
in  regard  to  his  brother  s  will,  or  rather  his  designs ;  for 
the  will  was  so  plain  that  Mr.  Fitzakerly,  our  present 
greatest  lawyer,  said  that  only  was  to  be  followed ;  but 
though  Mr.  Dewes  asked  countnl,  he  followed  the  law  of 
kindness  only,  both  to  the  memory  of  his  brother  and  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  485 

regard  to  the  persons  that  may  have  lost  some  advan- 
tages by  his  death. 

Mr.  Dewes,  I  am  sure,  as  well  as  myself^  shall  always 
think  ourselves  obliged  by  the  kind  notice  and  advice 
you  give  in  regard  to  our  children,  but  I  fear  he  will  not 
consent  to  a  public  school,  he  is  so  fearful  of  the  bad 
ways  and  vices  they  have  there  to  encounter:  and 
besides,  is  really  afraid  of  the  hardships  and  severity 
they  are  to  undergoe  mwcii  more  than  I  am^  for  I  own  I 
am  ambitious  to  have  them  excel  and  make  a  figure.  His 
chief  objection  to  Abingdon  school  is  that  he  has  heard 
Mr.  Woods  is  passionate,  but  Mr.  Head,  who  was  his 
scholar,  spoke  very  much  in  his  favour,  so  I  hope  to  pre- 
vail to  have  one  there.  Does  not  the  Dean  think  it 
will  be  better  to  have  them  at  different  schools  P  I  have 
a  notion  that  going  together,  as  they  are'  so  much  of  the 
same  age,  whichever  excels  may  raise  an  emulation,  and 
prevent  the  love  I  wish  to  subsist  between  them;  now 
when  they  meet  aa  strangers  at  breaking-up  times  at 
home  they  will  naturally  be  fond  of  each  other.  But 
this  is  a  point  I  can't  well  determine  upon,  the  Dean  can 
better  advise  us ;  Bunny  is  folly  as  quick  in  learning  as 
Court,  but  does  not  Icm  it,  and  is  very  heedless,  and  he  has  a 
naturall  artftdness  that  is  generally  commended  in  chil- 
dren, but  I  take  great  pains  to  break  him  of  it.  Pauline 
is  not  yet  so  genteel  as  Jackey  because  she  is  very  fat, 
but  she  bridles  *  very  well.     Court  is  greatly  alarmed  at 


^  Qy.  ''  BridlesJ*  This  expression  alludes  to  that  sort  of  carriage  which  is 
now  (unfortunately)  almost  unknown.  It  may  therefore  be  necessary  to  explain 
that  one  of  the  first  lessons  in  deportment  at  the  period  this  letter  was  written. 
was  to  hold  |up  the  head  on  entering  a  room,  and  to  keep  the  chin  in,  which  is 
expressed  by  '* hridUngy^  and  then  having  curtseyed  at  the  door,  to  advance 
deliberately  towards  the  person  who  had  the  first  claim  to  greeting,  to  sink  low 


Digitized  by 


Google 


486  LIFE  AND  OORBBSPONDENCB 

your  intelligence  about  Miss  Hamilton,  and  asked  many 
questions  who  and  what  was  ''  the  Primate/'  and  says  "  a 
bishop  should  not  be  so  wicked." 

I  am  sure  your  '' AngeV'^  is  heavenly,  as  all  your 
works  are.  I  am  glad  the  things  are  arrived  safe :  you 
put  too  great  a  value  upon  the  trifles  I  have  in  my 
power  to  return  for  the  greatest  obUgations.  I  am  glad 
you  like  the  engraving ;  it  was  done  by  Ingley  the  jeweller, 
whom  you  must  remember  at  Gloucester ;  he  is  very  inge- 
nious but  horridly  idle,  and  drinks.  Indeed  the  variety 
of  things  that  has  lately  passed  through  my  head  and  heart 
had  made  me  entirely  forget  that  you  had  ever  mentioned 
the  lining  of  the  bed,  which  appears  ungrateful,  though  you 
are  too  just  to  give  it  that  turn ;  I  have  no  pattern  of 
the  lining,  and  am  really  almost  angry  that  you  are  so 
good  and  kind,  but  I  shall  not  think  to  make  it  up  till  you 
come  to  give  your  directions,  though  I  had  rather  it  were 
ready  to  receive  you,  when  you  next  make  us  happy ;  I 
wish  you  would  send  me  a  little  bit  of  the  size  and  sort 
of  fringe  you  think  will  do,  for  perhaps  I  may  have  some 
by  me ;  I  believe  it  must  be  plain,  for  all  others  are  so 
tedious ;  I  am  sure  the  short  apron'  will  be  charming. 

A  gap  here  occurs  in  the  Correspondence.  The  next  letter  is  from 
Lady  Dysart  on  the  occasion  of  her  sister's  marriage  to  the  Marquis 
of  Tweedale — ^four  months  after  the  date  of  this  letter. 


gradually,  and  to  rise  slowly  and  gracefully.  Girls  were  always  made  to  curt- 
sey in  the^rs^  position,  because  if  there  was  any  unsteadiness  in  the  knees  and 
ancles,  it  would  be  immediately  detected, — the  hands  were  folded  and  kept  to 
themselves^  and  hutting,  bobbing,  and  rushing  about  with  outstretched  pahns 
was  unknown. 

1  A  copy  after  Carlo  Dolci. 

'  The  short  apron  here  alluded  to  is  probably  one  still  in  existence,  with 
purple  violets  and  leaves  designed  from  nature,  and  embroidered  in  coloured 
silks  on  a  fiEkwn-ooloured  lutestring. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRa  DELANY.  487 

Lady  Dyaart  to  Mn.  Bekmy, 

New  BarlingtOD  Street,  June  28th,  1748. 

I  was  long  in  expectation  of  a  letter  from  dear  Mrs. 
Delany,  which  I  now  acknowledge,  I  am  much  pleased 
with  Mr.  Barber's  works,  particularly  the  head  of  Calista, 
which  he  told  me  was  for  you,  and  I  think  preferable  to 
any  of  Zincke's  pictures ;  I  will  recommend  him  as  much 
as  lies  in  my  power ;  at  present  the  town  is  so  empty  that 
I  can  do  him  but  little  service.  Lady  Geo.  Spencer  has 
long  promised  me  her  picture,  and  I  will  have  it  by  Mr. 
Barber,  but  she  says  I  must  stay  till  next  winter.  I  thank 
you  for  subscribing  in  my  name  for  the  Irish  (illegible); 
the  half  guinea  shall  be  payable  upon  sight.  I  think  my 
sister  Fanny*  to  all  appearance  happily  established ;  the 
Marquis  is  a  sensible  reasonable  man,  and  quite  her  lover. 
He  has  £4000  a-year  in  Scotland  and  two  houses — 
one  of  them,  I  am  told,  is  a  very  fine  place ;  my  sister 
has  £1200  a-year  jointure  rent-charge.  He  has  given 
her  a  very  fine  pair  of  brilliant  earrings,  one  drop,  a  girdle 
buckle,  and  five  stars  for  her  stays  ;  her  clothes  (she  was 
married  in)  were  white  satin  flounced,  with  a  magnificent 
silver  trimming  all  over  the  gown  and  petticoat ;  she  had 
besides  a  white  and  gold  with  colours,  a  pink  and  silver 
sac,  a  brocaded  lutestring  gown  and  petticoat,  a  white 
satin  sultane  with  embroidered  robings  of  natural  flowers, 
and  a  pink  and  white  sprigged  sultane.     I  have  now  told 


*  Lady  Frances  Carteret,  daughter  of  John  Earl  Granville,  married,  April 
1748,  John,  4th  Marquis  of  Tweedale.  Horace  Walpole  mentions  having  met  at 
Qosfield,  when  on  a  visit  to  his  friend  Mr.  Nugent,  in  1748,  "  the  Marquis  of 
Tweedale  and  his  new  Marchioness,  who  is  infinitely  good-humoured  and  good 
company,  and  sang  a  thousand  French  songs  mighty  prettily." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


488  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

you  aU  her  clothes;  her  lace  was  fine  and  well  chosen,  her 
best  head  was  point.  The  Marquis  has  the  house  in 
Grosvenor  Street  where  Sir  Eobert  Bide  lived :  they  don't 
go  to  Scotland  this  year. 

I  have  not  painted  anything  since  the  St.  Catharine 
you  saw,  I  was  too  ill  last  summer  to  undertake  a  pic- 
ture. I  went  to  Tunbridge,  which  did  me  service,  but  I 
have  never  recovered  my  strength  since  that  illness  which 
was  very  near  putting  an  end  to  me.  Mr.  Philips  is  in 
town,  and  I  have  been  to  see  him,  he  has  a  paralytic 
disorder,  and  is  much  broke.  I  don't  think  he  will  ever 
be  able  to  return  to  Ireland  and  claim  his  picture :  but  re- 
member you  are  one  in  my  debt,  and  I  should  choose  to 
have  it  your  oum.  I  beg  my  compliments  to  the  Dean, 
whom  I  hope  to  see  a  Bishop,  for  he  would  do  honour  to 
their  bench ;  but  I  am  of  opinion,  that — 

A  genua  in  the  reveTend  gown, 
Will  help  to  keep  its  owner  daum, 

I  hope  it  will  not  be  always  his  case.  My  time  has  been 
divided  between  Ham  and  this  place  since  the  beginning 
of  May.  We  gave  a  great  entertainment  at  Ham,  and 
Lady  Georgina^  gave  one  at  Wimbleton,  to  the  Marquis 
and  his  lady,  and  the  company  that  were  at  the  wedding, 
sixteen  in  niunber.  I  hope  to  hear  from  you — I  wont  say 
when  you  have  nothing  better  to  do,  for  you  have  so  many 
ingenious  ways  of  employing  your  time  I  should  have  no 
chance.  I  have  left  Whitehall  against  my  inclination,  Mr. 
Treby  would  not  let  or  sell  it.  I  live  in  the  house  in  New 
Burlington  Street  that  Governor  Worsley  built,*  where 

»  Lady  Georgiana  Spencer,  (afterwards  Lady  Cowper,)  sister  of  Lady  Dysart 
and  Lady  Tweedale. 

'  Henry,  second  son  of  Sir  Robert  Worsley,  and  great  uncle  of  Lady  Dysart, 
was  Governor  of  Barbadoes,  in  1721.    He  died  nnmarried,  March  15, 1747. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  489 

Sir  Robert  Worsley  lived  ;  it  is  a  more  convenient  house 
than  that  I  left,  though  not  so  pleasantly  situated.  I 
fear  I  have  tired  you,  BeKeve  me  most  sincerely,  dear 
madam, 

Your  affectionate  and  faithful 

Humble  servant, 
Gt.  Dysart. 

A  month  elapses  after  this  letter  before  the  Correspondence  of 
Mrs.  Delany  recommences  at  Clogher,  and  it  appears  that  the 
Dean  and  herself  had  been  making  a  tour  of  Irish  visits. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Cloghor,  2d  August,  1748. 

According  to  our  design  we  set  out  from  Clonfede  (Q^) 
Dr.Clarke's  on  Monday  the  1st  of  August  at  eight  o'clock ; 
passed  through  very  jumbling  roads,  narrow  and  winding 
but  not  dangerous ;  the  country  as  we  went  along  plea- 
sant, but  not  so  finely  improved  as  what  I  have  sent  you 
an  account  of  in  my  last  giant  letter.  From  Dr.  Clarke's 
to  Callidon,  where  Lord  Orrery  Kves,  is  ten  miles,  we  sent 
our  compliments,  but  did  not  call  on  him,  designing  to 
have  waited  on  him  and  his  lady  in  our  return ;  jfrom 
thence  to  this  place  is  fourteen  miles.  We  got  here  by 
dinner-time,  found  the  Bishop  and  his  Bishopess  very  weU, 
in  good  spirits,  and  glad  of  our  company.  I  am  very 
happy  to  find  my  brother  had  been  with  you ;  it  is  what 
I  was  pretty  sure  he  would  do, — ^he  never  fails  in  essential 
paints  of  kindness.  I  must  tell  you  I  was  so  silly,  upon 
not  hearing  a  great  while  from  him  or  hearing  where  he 
positively  was,  as  to  take  it  into  my  head  he  would  sur- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


490  LIFE  AND  CORRESPOM)ENOE 

prise  me  at  Clogher ;  I  could  not  help  indulging  so  far  a 
hope  about  it,  as  to  feel  a  disappointment  at  not  finding 
him ;  I  confess  this  was  very  foolish^  but  not  mmaiwrtd. 

This  house  is  large,  and  makes  a  good  shounsh  figure ; 
but  great  loss  of  room  by  ill-contrivance  within  doors,  It 
is  situated  on  the  side  of  so  steep  a  hill  that  part  of  the 
front  next  the  street  is  under  ground,  and  from  that  to 
the  garden  you  descend  fiflby  stone  steps  which  is  in- 
tolerable, and  in  hot  weather  such  as  we  have  had,  a 
fatigue  not  to  be  endured.  The  garden  is  pretty  ;  a  fine 
large  sloping  green  walk  from  the  steps  to  a  large  bason 
of  water,  on  which  sail  most  graceftdly  four  beautiful 
swans.  Beyond  the  bason  of  water  rises  a  very  steep 
green  hill  covered  with  fir ;  in  the  side  of  it  Mrs.  Clayton 
is  going  to  make  a  grotto,  the  rest  of  the  garden  is  ir- 
regularly planted ;  the  Bishop  is  very  busy,  and  I  believe 
will  make  it  very  pretty.  The  company  in  the  house  with 
them,  besides  ourselves,  are — ^Miss  Brown,  Mr.  Burgh,  a 
clergyman,  a  very  agreeable  gentleman-like  man,  Mr. 
Brown,  a  nephew  of  the  Bishop's,  and  a  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Sandy,  who  always  live  here  and  take  care  of  all  their 
affairs  in  their  absence.  We  came  on  Monday,  dined, 
walked  about,  and  chattered ;  on  Tuesday,  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
More  and  their  two  daughters  dined  here — they  live  about 
seven  miles  off:  he  is  a  great  planter  and  improver,  has  a 
large  estate,  his  house  is  bad,  but  the  country  about  it 
and  situation  very  fine.  On  Wednesday,  in  the  afternoon 
we  went  to  Longford's  Glinn,  which  is  about  two  miles 
from  hence.  We  went  in  the  coach  to  the  opening  of  the 
glen ;  it  is  a  charming  awfrd  scene,  but  as  you  have  the 
poem  that  describes  it  very  exactly  I  shall  not  attempt  a 
description  of  it :  I  have  taken  a  sketch  or  two,  but  I  am 


Digitized  by, 


.Google 


OP  MRa  DBLANY.  491 

a&aid  I  shall  not  be  able  to  do  justice  to  the  original.    I 
looked  for  mosses  and  herbs,  but  found  no  new  sorts,  part 
of  the  verdure  is  very  fine.   I  gathered  four  sorts  of  fruit — 
raspberries,  cranberries,  strawberries,  and  nuts,  of  which 
there  are  great  plenty,  the  raspberries  were  particularly 
high-flavotu:ed.     I  was  resolved  to  send  you  something 
that  grew  in  the  glen,  and  have  enclosed  a  piece  of  moss. 
The  glen  put  me  in   mind  of  part  of  Matlock,  but 
more  retired,  and  the  water  that  runs  through  is  a  little 
bubbling  brook  instead  of  a  river :  the  one  looks  as  if  fre- 
quented by  human  creatures,  the  other  by  nymphs  and 
fawns.     I  returned  home  so  thoroughly   fatigued  by 
scrambling  amongst  the  rocks  and  briars,  and  by  my  great 
attention  to  every  different  view,  that  I  could  hardly  hold 
out  to  supper.    I  waked  on  Thursday  well  refreshed,  and 
in  the  evening  it  was  proposed  to  eat  a  syllabub  about  a 
mile  off.     For  the  froKc's  sake,  it  being  no  coach  road, 
we  agreed  to  go,  three  ladies,  on  what  is  called  here  a 
truckle  car  (what  they  makes  use  of  for  carrying  goods), 
drawn  by  one  horse  and  the  wheels  not  three  foot  high ; 
and  one  was  prepared  for  that  purpose,    well-covered 
with  straw,  upon  which  with  some  diflBculty  we  settled 
ourselves.     As  we  were  going  through  the  tovm  (which 
enire  nous  is  not  quite  so  considerable  as    Welsbourn)^ 
I  found  my  legs,  which  hung  over  the  side  of  the  car, 
sliding  nearer  and  nearer  to  the  ground,  and  down  I 
jumped :  Mrs.  Clayton  did  the  same,  and  behold  our  axle- 
tree  was  broken !    The  Dean  and  Miss  Brown  were  in  a 
chaise  before  us,  and  the  Bishop  on  horseback.  You  may 
imagine  this  little  adventure  made  some  sport  for  us. 
No  harm  could  happen  to  us,  and  we  sneaked  home  on 
foot,  not  a  little  ashamed  to  be  so  exposed  in  the  midst  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


492  LIFE  AND  C01iRESP0OT)ENCE 

tJie  city  of  Clogher !  The  rest  of  the  day  past  in  laughing 
at  one  another,  drinking  tea,  and  walking  in  the  garden. 
Upon  inquiry  we  found  it  would  not  be  greatly  out  of  our 
way  to  return  back  by  my  Lord  Orrery's,  so  we  chose  to 
make  him  a  visit  and  return  back  to  this  place,  which  we 
did.  We  went  on  Friday,  and  got  there  by  one.  Lord 
Orrery  is  Tnore  agreeable  than  he  used  to  be ;  he  has  laid 
aside  the  ceremonious  stiffiiess  that  was  a  great  disadvan- 
tage to  him.  He  is  very  well-bred  and  entertaining;  his 
lady,  (whose  fortune  was  near  3000  pounds  a  year),  is  very 
plain  in  her  person  and  manner,  but  to  make  amends  for 
that  she  is  very  sensible,  unaffected,  good-humoured,  and 
obliging.  I  spent  the  day  very  pleasantly :  it  is  a  fine  place 
by  nature,  and  they  are  both  fond  of  the  country ;  she 
delights  in  farming,  and  he  in  building  and  gardening,  and 
he  has  very  good  taste.  They  have  a  lodge  about  a  mile 
from  their  house,  where  they  spend  most  of  their  time ;  it 
has  all  the  advantages  of  water,  wood,  and  diversified 
groupds :  and  there  the  new  house  is  to  be  built.  Nothing 
is  completed  yet  but  an  hermitage,  which  is  about  an  acre 
of  groimd — an  island,  planted  with  all  the  variety  of  trees, 
shrubs,  and  flowers  that  will  grow  in  this  country,  abun- 
dance of  little  winding  walks,  differently  embellished  with 
little  seats  and  banks  ;  in  the  midst  is  placed  an  hermit's 
cell,  made  of  the  roots  of  trees,  the  floor  is  paved  with 
pebbles,  there  is  a  couch  made  of  matting,  and  little 
wooden  stools,  a  table  with  a  manuscript  on  it,  a  pair  of 
spectacles,  a  leathern  bottle ;  and  hung  up  in  different 
parts,  an  hourglass,  a  weatherglass  and  several  mathe- 
matical instruments,  a  shelf  of  books,  another  of  wooden 
platters  and  bowls,  another  of  earthen  ones,  in  short 
everything  that  you  might  imagine  necessary  for  a  re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  493 

cluse.    Fcywr  little  gardens  mrround  his  house — an  orchard, 
a     flower-garden,    a    physick-garden,    and    a    kitchen- 
garden,  with  a  kitchen  to  boil  a  teakettle  or  so :  I  never 
saw  so  pretty  a  whim  so  thoroughly  well  executed.    We  re- 
turned on  Saturday,  met  the  Bishop's  family  at  Mr.  More's, 
halfway  between  this  and  Callidon.     Yesterday  went  to 
church  twice — the  Dean  preached ;  walked  in  the  evening 
round  Castle  Hill, '' for  royal  ErgaL^spaUice  famed  of  old:'' 
it  is  very  high,  and  a  fine  meadow  around  the  sides  of  it, 
where  we  sat  an  hour  on  the  haycocks,  refreshed  by  the 
fragrancy  of  the  hay  and  the  sweetness  of  the  air,*  till 
the  setting  sun  warned  us  to  bend  our  footsteps  home. 
This  is  MrSi  Clayton's  birthday,  and  we  are  to  have 
a  ball  and  monsti*ous  fine  doings ;  but  I  must  prepare 
to  do  aU  the  honour  I  can  to  the  day,  and  am  called 
away  to  dress-     To-morrow  we  go  to  Dr.  Madden's,  four- 
teen miles  off,  in  our  way  to  Mr.  Preston  s,  where  we  hope 
to  be  on  Thursday  next,  and  in  ten  days  after  that  at 
home ;  adieu. 


Mn,  Dekmy  to  Mn.  Dewe$. 

Swainton,!  13  August,  1748. 

I  received  my  dearest  sister  s  letter  dated  the  26  July 
the  day  before  I  left  Clogher,  which  gave  me  an  account 
of  your  not  having  been  well ;  but  hope  your  next  letter 
will  give  me  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  you  are  quite 
well.  K  upon  bleeding  you  found  your  blood  was  thick, 
I  wish  you  would  take  hartshorn  for  some  time  every 
day,  and  take  care  of  yourself, — ^your  family  as  well  as 


The  residence  of  Mr.  Preston. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


494  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

myself  claim  that  from  yon  as  you  value  their  happiness. 
As  soon  as  I  return  to  Delville  I  will  send  you  the 
song  on  the  Gardens.  Pray,  did  I  not  leave  with  you 
the  8th  vol.  of  Swift?  I  know  I  intended  it.  I  think 
the  Wises  were  very  silly  to  let  a  shower  of  rain  pre- 
vent their  coming  to  Welsboum.  I  want  an  account 
from  you  of  Miss  Graves ;  the  last  time  I  saw  her  I 
thought  her  extremely  altered.  What  manuscripts  did 
I  promise?  I  have  led  such  a  fluttering  life  of  late 
— no  wonder  they  should  be  jumbled  out  of  my 
head. 

My  last  letter  ended  with  an  account  of  great  prepa- 
rations for  the  celebration  of  Madam  Clayton's  birth- 
day :  there  were  eight  couple  of  very  clever  dancers, 
and  Madame  and  I  divided  a  man  between  us  and  made 
up  the  ninth  couple  hy  turns;  at  eleven  we  went  to 
supper —  a  sumptuous  cold  collation.  At  twelve  the  fiddles 
struck  up  again,  and  every  lad  took  his  lass  to  ''  trip  it  on 
the  light  fantastic  toe"  D.D.  and  I  took  that  opportunity 
of  walking  off  to  our  own  apartments,  as  we  intended  to 
set  out  early  the  next  morning,  and  soberly  took  our  rest 
whilst  the  jovial  company  danced  briskly  away  till  past 
two  o'clock ;  the  Bishop  always  goes  to  bed  at  ten,  but 
that  night  he  sat  up  tiU  eleven.  The  next  morning  we 
left  Clogher  at  eight,  where  we  had  spent  eight  days  very 
agreeably,  and  went  to  Dr.  Madden's,^  (fourteen  miles  from 
Clogher).    He  is  a  very  remarkable  man,  and  to  give  you 


1  Dr.  Samuel  Madden,  bom  in  1687 :  he  was  an  Irish  dergyman  and  a  Dean, 
and  held  the  living  of  Dmmmxilly.  He  founded  a  society  at  Dublin  in  1740 
for  the  improvement  of  the  arts,  similar  to  that  which  was  afterwards  esta- 
blished in  London.  In  1744  he  published  ^'  Boulter's  Monument,**  a  poem ;  and 
a  play  entitled  '*  Themistodes,'*  and  died  1765. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  495 

a  just  portrait  of  him  would  take  up  more  time  than  is 
allowed  me  at  present.  He  has  a  very  prating  wife,  who 
would  pass  for  the  grey  mare,  and  makes  a  boast  of  that 
which  a  wise  and  reasonable  woman  would  not.  They 
have  six  daughters  and  five  sons,  all  grown  up  men  and 
women ;  fortunately  for  my  head  the  rruyorpaart  were  gone 
to  a  ball,  for  they  are  themselves  a  concert  of  trumpets^ 
French-horns  and  bagpipes.  The  place  is  pretty ;  a  very 
fine  wood  of  all  sort  of  forest  trees,  planted  by  Doctor 
Madden  just  by  the  house,  surrounded  by  a  fine  river.  He 
has  been  a  great  planter  and  benefactor  to  his  country  on 
many  accounts,  and  a  great  encourager  of  the  premiums 
and  charter-schools  :  we  lay  there  one  night.  The  country 
from  Qogher  to  that  place  very  pleasant ;  from  thence  to 
Virginia  a  very  dreary  country,  but  to  make  amends  the 
finest  roads  I  ever  travelled.  The  next  morning,  from 
Virginia  we  went  to  Kells ;  dreary  enough  stiU,  where 
we  dined.  But  we  passed  by  a  fine  lake  with  several 
beautiM  islands,  twenty-five  miles  from  Qogher.  There 
my  good  Letitia  met  me  in  Mr.  Preston's  coach,  she  looks 
well  and  sends  you  many  kind  wishes  :  we  dined  together 
at  KeUs,  and  came  to  this  place  by  7  in  the  afternoon. 
This  place  is  the  quintessence  of  cleanliness  and  neatness ;  but 
I  cannot  tell  you  more  particulars  at  present  but  that  I  am 
well  pleased  to  be  here,  and  to  be  so  near  dear  Delville, 
where,  please  God,  we  shall  go  on  Friday  next. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


-496  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  20th  August,  1748. 

My  dearest  sister  will  not  be  displeased  to  receive  a 
letter  from  my  own  peaceful  bowers. 

I  thank  God  you  are  so  well  again,  and  hope  yon  will 
have  no  return.  You  know  so  well  my  heart,  that  to 
say  I  am  cheerful  when  I  am  not  so  would  not  pass  with 
you.  /  onm  I  have  felt  an  the  return  of  this  month  *  all 
that  you  eapresSy  and  at  the  same  time  conclude  as  you 
do,  after  many  tender  and  grateful  reflections,  that  we 
ought  to  rejoice  at  our  dear  and  valuable  parent's  present 
happiness ;  which  by  continually  reflecting  on  must 
entirely  by  degrees  get  the  better  of  that  self-love  which 
makes  us  lament  our  own  loss  in  her.  I  thank  God  I 
find  that  happy  effect  in  part,  and  believe  your  strength 
of  mind,  and  true  resignation  to  the  divine  will,  will  per^ 
feet  it  in  you  in  a  much  higher  degree.  All  your 
news  was  welcome,  and  if  it  were  not  all  quite  new  your 
manner  of  telling  it  makes  at  least  as  entertainmg  and 
something  more  intelligible  than  the  magazine.  I  desire 
you  will  not  imagine  I  have  any  intelligence  but  from 
yourself;  if  you  do  I  shall  be  kept  in  ignorance  of  many 
things  I  like  to  know.  How  shocking  was  Dr.  Brox- 
holm's  *  end !  and  how  much  I  pity  his  poor  wife ! 

I  will  send  you  the  account  of  the  caterpillar  as  soon 
as  I  am  settled  enough  to  get  it  transcribed.     I  am 


^  Mrs.  Granville,  her  mother's  death. 

•  Horace  Walpole  says : — "  You  have  seen  in  the  papers  that  Dr.  Bioxholme 
is  dead.  He  cut  his  throat.  He  always  was  nervous  and  vapoured ;  and  so 
good-natured,  that  he  left  off  his  practice  from  not  being  able  to  bear  so  many 
melancholy  objects." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  497 

much  obliged  to  you  for  Mr.  Merrick's  *  verses,  which  are 
very  good  in  more  senses  than  one.  I  shall  be  glad  to 
see  his  works  when  they  are  published ;  if  they  are  to  be 
by  subscription,  pray  subscribe  for  me.  I  am  afraid  I 
shall  not  be  able  to  do  any  knotting  for  you,  for  very  un*» 
thinkingly  I  sent  you  all  the  knotting  thread,  and  shall 
not  be  able  till  next  year  to  get  the  right  sort.     What 

is going  to  Bulstrode  for  now  ?     I  wish  it  may  not 

embarrass  our  friend  the  Duchess,  for  as  her  M.  is  now 
with  her,  it  will  not  be  in  her  power  to  take  so  much 

notice  of as  she  would  otherwise  do,  and  that  may 

mortify  her  extremely.  I  am  afraid  the  last  letter  I  an- 
swered of  her's  was  not  to  her  mind,  but  /  must  he  rnicere, 
especially  with  those  I  love,  and  she  has  such  high  notions 
for  her  daughter  as  I  am  sure  will  not  answer.  She  asked 
my  opinion  about  making  interest /(W  aplace  at  Court,  and 
I  hinted  rather  at  her  putting  her  out  to  some  good  seruice, 
though  I  don't  think  the  girl  hsa  had  an  education  for 
that,  but  it  is  very  hard  to  advise  where  our  judgments 
are  so  different.  I  am  very  glad  you  have  got  Mrs.  Nor- 
cliff  home  again, — she  is  a  valuable  neighbour. 

I  wrote  you  word  of  bur  progress  as  far  as  Mr.  Preston's 
of  Swaiustown,  seventeen  miles  from  hence.  Mr.  Preston's 
first  wife  was  sister  to  my  Mrs.  Hamilton ;  she  left  him 
three  sons,  now  grown  up  pretty  sensible  young  men,  the 
eldest  and  youngest  in  the  army,'  the  second  a  clergyman 
just  in  orders — they  were  all  at  home.     Mr.  Preston  is  an 

»  James  Merrick,  M.A.,  an  English  divine  and  poet,  born  1720,  died  1769. 
He  published  poems  on  sacred  subjects :  viz.,  the  Benedicite  paraphrased,  the 
Lord's  Prayer  paraphrased,  Nunc  Dimittis  paraphrased,  Balaam's  Blessing  on 
Israel,  a  Hymn,  the  Trials  of  Virtue,  the  Ignorance  of  Man,  Verses  written 
originally  in  Persia— Oxford,  1763,  4to. :  and  many  other  works.— PTaWa'* 
BiUiotheca  BritU 

VOL.  II.  2  K 


Digitized  by 


Google 


498  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

old  prim  beau^  as  affected  as  a  fine  lady ;  but  a  very  honest 
man,  obstinate  in  his  opinions,  but  the  pink  of  civilitj  in 
his  own  house,  which  is  as  neat  as  a  cabinet,  and  kept  with 
an  exactness  which  is  really  rather  troublesome.  The 
present  Mrs.  Preston,  who  has  been  married  to  him  about 
seven  years,  was  daughter  of  the  Bishop  of  Meath  (Lum- 
bard),  is  a  most  sensible,  agreeable,  conversable  woman, 
plain  in  her  person,  but  in  her  manners  genteel  and 
friendly,  an  excellent  good  woman,  and  a  great  friend  of 
Bushe's,  whom  I  found  there,  and  left  in  very  good  health. 
They  are  in  a  very  pleasant  neighbourhoood,  and  ''  live 
very  elegantly"  {as  Sally  says).  Lord  Momingtons 
(Dangen)  is  six  miles  from  them,  where  I  was  to  have 
gone  last  Wednesday,  but  a  little  disorder,  occasioned  by 
eating  too  many  cherries,  obliged  me  to  come  home. 

Swainstown  is  in  the  county  of  Meath, — aflat  country, 
and  all  com,  which  though  of  benefit  to  those  who  have 
estates  there,  does  not  afford  the  traveller  such  pleasant 
scenes  as  lands  better  wooded  and  varied  by  hills  and 
dales.  The  river  Boyne  runs  through  part  of  it,  and 
wherever  it  flows  beauty  attends  its  banks,  which  are 
indeed  very  fine.  Mr.  Ludlow  has  a  seat  near  it,  and 
three  miles  from  Mr.  Preston's,  called  Ardsalla.  The 
house  a  good  one,  with  some  good  pictures,  the  gardens 
fine,  and  laid  out  a  great  deal  in  the  old  taste,  with  high 
cut  hedges  and  straight  walks,  but  the  part  next  the  river 
is  in  a  wilder  way,  planted  with  scattering  trees,  and  pretty 
seats  to  take  different  views  of  the  winding  of  the  river. 
I  was  extremely  delighted  with  one  part  of  the  garden, 
which  was  designed  by  D.D.,  a  place  that  was  formerly 
a  stone  quarry,  dug  down  so  low  that  the  rocks  as  you 
walk  at  the  bottom  are  a  considerable  way  above  your 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRa  DELANY.  499 

head,  and  are  so  well  crowned  with  trees  of  all  kinds  that 
they  hover  over  you  as  you  walk,  and  shade  you  entirely 
from  the  sun.  Little  plantations  of  trees  and  flowering 
shrubs  in  different  forms  adorn  the  walk  as  you  pass 
winding  along ;  nothing  can  be  wilder  or  more  romantic. 
I  am  afraid  I  do  not  give  you  a  right  idea  of  it.  But 
when  I  came  home,  notwithstanding  all  the  variety  of  fine 
and  pretty  things  I  had  seen,  I  thought  Delville  looked 
enchantingly  pretty !  I  found  my  house  as  clean  as  if  the 
&iries  had  swept  it,  and  all  my  domestics  and  neigh- 
bours rejoiced  at  our  return;  the  sight  of  poor  little 
Tommy  Greene  was  a  renewal  of  the  concern  we  had  felt 
for  the  loss  of  his  valuable  mother^  ^  and  the  little 
creature  was  so  transported  at  my  coming  home,  that  it 
was  moving  to  see  the  silent  pleasure  he  had,  for  he 
could  not  speak,  but  hugged  and  stroked  my  arms, 
and  would  not  stir  one  minute  from  me,  as  if  directed  to 
beseech  my  protection  and  mgke  up  in  some  measure  his 
loss.  His  father  (a  most  disconsolate  man)  is  gone  the 
circuit,  and  returns  this  week. 

I  found aU the  Barbers  well;  and  Quadruple  AUiance — 
(Mrs.  F.  Hamilton,  Miss  Forth,  and  Miss  Anne  Hamil- 
ton,) dined  and  spent  the  day  with  me  on  Thursday,  and 
we  drank  tea  in  the  new.  part  of  the  study.  Yesterday 
morning  they  breakfasted  with  me,  with  the  agreeable 
addition  of  my  Mrs.  Hamilton,  and  staid  till  near  three. 
My  orange-trees  come  on  finely ;  there  is  but  one  that  has 
failed,  and  four  of  them  bore  prodigiously.  All  my  plants 
and  flowers  have  done  very  well,  that  is,  all  that  came  up 


^  This  is  the  first  alhision  to  Mrs.  Qreene's  death,  which  must  have  taken 
place  during  the  periods  when  the  links  in  the  conespondenoe  are  incomplete. 

2k2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


500  LIFR  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

before  I  went  into  the  country,  except  the  tuberoses,  and 
they  promise  but  indifferently.  On  Monday  the  Dean 
begins  about  his  chapel ;  he  makes  an  addition  for  the 
communion-table  to  stand  in  clear  of  the  aisk,  over  which 
is  to  be  a  round  gothic  window.  When  that  is  completed, 
he  has  promised  to  baild  me  a  kitchen  out  of  doors,  and 
that  which  is  now  my  kitchen  to  be  turned  into  a  room 
for  my  maids,  that  they  may  have  no  eall  upstaim  but 
when  they  are  about  their  business  there.  My  flower- 
garden,  which  is  now  just  under  my  eye,  is  a  wilderness 
of  flowers,  the  beds  are  overpowered  with  them,  and 
thougL  the  enamelled  look  they  have  is  rich  and  pretty,  I 
believe  it  will  be  advisable  to  have  the  different  sorts  of 
flowers  appear  rather  more  distinct.  And  now  I  must 
take  leave  of  you,  having  many  domestic  affairs  to  enquire 
into,  and  some  more  letters  to  write.  The  Dean  is 
mightily  pleased  with  Mrs.  B/s  letter,  and  has  great 
compassion  for  her,  but  fears  her  constitution  has  so  great 
a  share  in  her  disquiet^  as  will  baffle  all  endeavours  to 
satisfy  her  scruples. 

The  Correspondence  does  not  appear  to  have  been  preserved  for 
nearly  two  months  after  the  date  of  this  letter. 


Mrs,  DeUmy  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

DelviUe,  15  October,  1748. 


Last  Monday  we  set  out  for  Dangan,  Lord  Mornings 
ton's,  and  were  excessively  pinched  with  the  cold,  for  a 
colder  day  I  never  felt ;  but  we  were  soon  warmed  by  a 
kind  welcome  and  good  dinner.  Lord  Momington  is  now 
the  same  good-humoured,  agreeable  man  he  was  seven- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS,  DELANY.  501 

teen  years  ago,  when  I  made  him  my  kst  visit,  but  his 
family  much  improved.  You  know  Mrs,  Fortescue — she 
was  always  a  favourite  of  mine ;  her  pretty  husband  was 
abroad,  which  I  was  sorry  for,  as  he  would  have  been  an 
agreeable  addition  to  our  society.  Miss  Wesley^  did  the 
honours  of  the  table,  for  her  sister  is  confined  to  her 
chamber ;  she  was  so  iU  last  year  that  they  sent  her  to 
the  Bath,  she  has  not  been  returned  above  six  weeks.  My 
godson.  Master  Wesley,'  is  a  most  extraordinary  boy ;  he 
was  thirteen  last  month,  he  is  a  very  good  scholar,  and 
whatever  study  he  undertakes  he  masters  it  most  sur- 
prisingly. He  began  with  the  fiddle  last  year,  he  now 
plays  everything  at  sight ;  he  understands  fortification, 
building  of  ships,  and  has  more  knowledge  than  I  ever 
met  with  in  one  so  yoimg.  He  is  a  child  among  children, 
and  as  tractable  and  complying  to  his  sisters,  and  aU  that 
should  have  any  authority  over  him,  as  the  little  children 
can  be  to  you. 

The  place  is  reaUy  magnificent ;  the  old  house  that 
was  burnt  down  is  rebuilding.  They  live  at  present  in  the 
offices ;  the  garden  (or  rather  improvements,  and  parks, 
for  it  is  too  extensive  to  be  called  a  garden),  consists  of 
six  hundred  Irish  acres,  which  make  between  eight  and 
nine  hundred  English.  There  is  a  gravel  walk  from 
the  house  to  the  great  lake  fifty-two  feet  broad,  and  six 
hundred  yards  long.  The  lake  contains  26  acres,  is  of 
an  irregular  shape,  with  a  fort  built  in  aU  its  forms; 


*  Fnmoes,  second  daughter  of  Richard,  Ist  Lord  Mornington,  who  married 
in  1750,  William  Francis  Crosbie,  Esq. 

'  Garrett,  only  son  of  Lord  Mornington,  born  July  19,  1735,  afterwards 
created  Viscount  Wellesley  and  Earl  of  Mornington.  He  was  father  of  Arthur, 
Ist  Duke  of  Wellington. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


502  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

there  are  islands  in  the  lake  for  wild  fowl;  and  great 
quantities  of  them  that  embellish  the  water  extremely. 
I  never  ^aw  so  pretty  a  thing.  There  are  several  ships, 
one  a  complete  man-of-war.  My  godson  is  governor  of 
the  fort,  and  lord  high  admiral ;  he  hoisted  all  his  colours 
for  my  reception,  and  was  not  a  little  mortified  that  I 
declined  the  compliment  of  being  saluted  from  the  fort 
and  ship.  The  part  of  the  lake  that  just  fronts  the 
house  forms  a  very  fine  bason,  and  is  surrounded  by  a 
natural  terrace  wooded,  through  which  walks  are  cut, 
and  variety  of  seats  placed,  that  you  may  rest  and  enjoy 
all  the  beauties  of  the  place  as  they  change  to  your  eye* 
The  ground  as  far  as  you  can  see  every  way  is  waving 
in  hills  and  dales,  and  every  remarkable  point  has  either 
a  tuft  of  trees,  a  statue,  a  seat,  an  obelisk,  or  a  pillar. 

The  weather  was  stormy  all  the  time  we  were  there, 
but  I  took  a  small  sketch  or  two,  though  I  performed 
my  operation  like  the  witches — in  a  whirlwind:  and  I 
had  so  Kttle  opportunity  of  examining  the  whole  dis- 
position of  the  place,  by  reason  of  the  bad  weather,  that 
I  can  give  you  but  an  imperfect  notion  of  it.  How 
great  a  satisfaction  is  it  to  see  so  fine  a  place  in  the 
possession  of  a  man  so  worthy  of  it !  The  maiden  aunt, 
Mrs.  Sale,*  that  has  lived  with  her  nieces  ever  since 
their  mother  died,  is  a  quiet  easy  woman,  who  neither 
adds  to  nor  checks  any  mirth.  Mrs.  Fortescue  has  a 
beautiful  boy  about  five  years  old,  a  jolly  girl  a  year 
younger ;  she  is  very  fond  of  them,  but  discreet  in  her 
management.     We   left  them  yesterday  morning   not 


^  The  wife  of  Richard  Lord  Mgmington  was  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  of 
John  Sale,  LL.D.  and  M.P.  for  Carysfort. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  508 

without  great  solicitations  that  we .  would  stay  longer ; 
but  D.D.  was  wanted  at  home  by  his  workmen,  and  I 
don  t  care  to  stay  long  abroad ;  I  found  the  Kttle  boy 
very  well  at  my  return,  and  rejoiced  at  seeing  me  again. 
We  came  home  by  Lucan,  and  called  there  at  two  o'clock 
in  hopes  of  finding  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Yesey  at  home,  and 
dining  with  them,  when  the  butler  told  us  they  were 
gone  to  dine  in  Dublin ;  well  then  we  had  nothing  to  do 
but  go  to  the  public-house  at  the  end  of  their  avenue, 
concluding  that  Miss  Handcock  was  gone  with  them. 
The  woman  of  the  pubhc-house  honestly  owned  she 
had  nothing  for  us,  ^wt  even  a  little  bacon ;  this  was  a 
cruel  disappointment  at  that  time  of  the  day,  so  on  we 
went  towards  Chapel-Izod,  a  famous  place  for  entertain- 
ment, about  four  miles  farther;  but  luckily  we  were 
called  after  with  Miss  Handcock's  compliments,  who 
desired  we  would  return  and  eat  a  bit  of  mutton  with 
her,  which  we  did  most  gladly;  and  no  wandering, 
starving  hero  or  njonph  in  a  forlorn  wood,  ever  reHshed 
a  £aury  repast  better  than  we  did  a  good  substantial 
shoulder  of  mutton  and  potatoes;  and  no  part  of  the 
entertainment  was  more  agreeable  than  the  pretty  kind 
manner  we  were  received  in  by  our  charitable  hostess. 
We  got  home  by  seven.  The  latter  end  of  next  week  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Vesey^  and  Miss  Handcocks  come  here  to  shelter 
themselves  for  some  days,  their  house  is  Aill  of  work.' 

Another  period  of  three  months  here  intervenes  in  the  Corre- 
spondence.       [ ^ 

^  Mrs.  Vesey  was  the  youngest  daughter  of  Sir  ThomBs  Vesey,  Bishop  of 
Ossory,  and  married  first,  William  Handcock,  Esq.,  of  Willsbrook,  county 
Westmeath,  and  secondly  to  Agmondisham  Vesey,  of  Lucan. 

'  The  end  of  this  letter  is  wanting. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


504  LIFE  AND  OORRBSPONDENCE 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  the  Duchess  <f  Portland. 

DelviUe,  14  Feb.,  1748-9. 

I  have  deferred  some  posts  writing  to  my  dear  Lady 
]>uchess  that  I  might  give  an  account  of  my  commissioD. 
I  have  got  the  six  suits,  which  I  think  very  good,  and  hope 
your  Ghrace  will  approve  of  them,  and  that  they  will  wear 
well.  I  did  not  buy  them  of  the  same  merchant  you  had 
the  last  of,  and  must  pay  the  carriage  of  them.  As  soon 
as  they  are  delivered  to  you  be  pleased  to  give  me  notice, 
and  directions  how  I  shall  draw  upon  you  for  the  money. 
They  come  to  £41  25.  Irish,  which  is  £37  18^.  Eng. 
The  tea  napkins  are  bespoke,  and  I  will  bring  them  with 
me ;  they  will  be  about  two  shillings  a  napkin ;  I  could 
not  meet  with  the  quantity  wanted  ready  made,  the  price 
on  each  suit  is  marked,  Irish  money. 

As  to  my  dearest  friend's  wish  about  my  phiz,  it  should 
be  accomplished  were  it  in  my  power ;  but  it  is  given  up 
by  the  whole  college  of  painters  to  be  an  impossible  face 
to  draw  like,  as  there  is  no  settled  comUenance  to  copy ! 
but  illrconditioned  muscles,  that  grow  crabbed  and  cross 
at  the  time  they  ought  to  be  in  the  best  humour !  Add 
to  this  a  muddled  complexion,  deep  lines  and  furrows, 
which  time  has  bountifrdly  and  amply  displayed,  and  for 
the  size  of  the  person  belonging  to  that  same  feoe — it  is 
a  porpuss  grown.^ 

'  This  humorous  descriptiou  of  herself  is  completely  contradicted  not  only 
by  tradition  but  by  £he  pictures  still  existing  of  Mrs.  Delany.  Her  complexion 
was  so  wonderfully  fine  that  her  blush  was  described  to  the  Editor  by  her 
own  mother  as  brilliant  to  the  last  year  of  her  life,  and  as  easily  called  forth 
by  any  sudden  emotion,  as  in  a  young  girl  of  fifteen,  and  she  neyer  was  rehire- 
sen  ted  or  described  as  fat. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  505 

I  am  glad,  and  so  is  Bushe  most  sincerely  so,  that  the 
Lady  Mayoress  *  found  such  favour  with  your  Grace :  it 
has  given  a  new  spring  to  her  pencil,  and  she  ha^  begun 
and  almost  finished  such  a  set  of  pantinea  as  will  be 
worthy  a  place  in  your  cabinet  of  curiosities.  She  has 
done  the  Duke  and  Duchess,  Don  Quixotte,  Sancho  Panza, 
Maritomes,  and  is  going  on  to  the  Laughing  Cook  and 
Dorothea ;  but  proud  as  I  am  of  contributing  to  your  store 
of  rarities,  I  don't  know  whether  I  shall  be  able  to  give 
you  up  my  Puppet  Shew  I 

Well  now,  my  dear  friend,  I  begin  to  feel  the  pleasure 
of  our  meeting,  and  every  day  I  do  something  towards 
my  journey ;  though  we  cannot  set  forward  till  the  latter 
end  of  May.  Mrs.  Vesey  offered  me  her  house  in  London, 
but  D.D.  would  not  have  it,  because  it  is  such  a  distance 
from  Whitehall.  I  wish  I  could  get  a  house  in  Spring 
Garden ;  I  have  not  yet  done  anything  to  your  toilette- 
boxes  ;  I  have  got  a  little  good  white  at  last,  but  fear 
the  eflfect  will  not  be  pretty :  however  I  will  do  some- 
thing by  them,  if  you  will  forgive  my  spoiling  them.  I 
wrote  your  Grace  word  that  I  thought  Kayman  *  the 
best  master  I  knew  of,  but  am  not  sure  he  will  teach. 
My  poor  dear  Goupy^  are  ybu  gone?^l  am  sure  you  have 
left  nothing  like  you  behind  you — so  modest,  quiet,  civil, 
honest,  and  an  incomparable  master  I  forgive  this  eulogium, 
but  my  heart  would  vent  itself,  and  your  Grace  knew  his 
worth.     I  find  by  the  newspapers,  that  the  Bishop  of  St. 


'  An  allasion  to  flome  drawing  by  Miss  Bnshe,  sent  to  the  Duchess  of  Fort- 
land. 

*  Frands  Ha3rman,  bom  at  Exeter  in  1708,  died  1776.  He  was  the  best 
historical  painter  in  the  kingdom  before  the  arrival  of  Cipriani.  He  furnished 
drawings  for  editions  of  Congreve's  Works,  Pope's  Works,  Newton's  Milton, 
Hanmer*s  Shakespeare,  &c. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


506  LIFE  AND  CORRBSPONDEKCE 

Asaph'  is  married,  may  I  take  the  liberty  to  beg  your  Gtrsce 
ivould  assure  him  of  mine  and  the  Dean's  best  wishes  for 
his  happiness  !  If  the  lady  has  equal  merit  to  him  (which 
I  hope  she  has),  he  must  be  a  happy  man.  Now  because  I 
have  not  time,  I  am  so  perverse  as  to  want  to  turn  over, 
but  it  is  Lent  and  a  time  for  mortification,  and  I  will 
indulge,  myself  no  longer. 

Mrs.  Delany  alludes  in  this  letter  to  her  expectation  of  soon  being 
in  England,  which  wsus  realized,  and  was  probably  the  cause  of  an 
interval  of  some  months  in  the  correspondence,  during  which  time  the 
following  letter  proves  that  she  had  been  with  her  sister  at  Welles- 
bourn,  and  had  then  made  a  pilgrimage  to  Gloucester  for  reasons  she 
herself  best  explains. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs,  Detves. 

Glocester,  1  July,  1749. 

Yesterday  I  received  my  dearest  sister's  letter,  and  am 
glad  you  are  determined  to  sit  quiet  this  sultry  weather. 
As  for  our  meeting  at  Gloucester,  it  would  have  been  too 
much  for  us  both,  and  Mrs.  V.  takes  the  not  coming  in  the 
trus  sense.  Though  I  have  suffered  in  my  spirits  by  coming 
here,  I  have  acquitted  myself  of  a  duty  I  owed,  and  find 
a  satisfaction  in  my  mind  for  having  done  it,  and  a  quiet 
and  iminterrupted  enjoyment  of  my  dear  sister  s  company 
at  my  return  to  Welsboume,  will  compensate  for  the  me- 
lancholy hours  1  must  spend  in  this  place,  where  so  many 
objects  put  me  in  mind  of  our  great  loss.  But  I  will  say 
no  more  on  this  subject,  though  my  heart  is  easier  for 
having  said  so  much.    I  hope  my  dearest  sister  has  now  no 

1  <'  Married,  the  3l8t  Jan.,  1740,  Right  Revd.  Dr.  Robert  Drammond,  Lord 
Bishop  of  St.  Asaph,  to  Miss  Henrietta  Orell,  a  30,0002.  fortone/ 


Digiiized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS-  DELANY.  507 

pain  in  her  side,  but  I  fear  the  excessive  heat  will  increase  it 
— ^and  surely  hotter  weather  was  never  felt,  except  that  one 
memorable  day  we  spent  together  at  Mayfield.^  Now 
for  the  journal.  I  found  all  here  well  except  poor  Nancy, 
who  seems  to  me  in  a  very  bad  way ;  our  first  meet- 
ing was  what  you  may  imagine  it  to  be,  and  the  first 
object  that  struck  my  eyes  was  a  new  torrib,  and  that 
put  my  spirits  into  such  a  hurry  that  I  could  not  get  the 
better  of  it  for  some  time,  nor  had  I  courage  to  venture 
yesterday  to  church  morning  or  evening,  or  to  go  out 
of  doors  but  into  the  garden.  I  set  Mrs.  Viney  to  the 
harpsichord,  and  I  was  much  pleased  with  the  improve- 
ment the  girls  have  made.  Miss  Viney  really  sings  well, 
and  Harriot  surprised  me  with  her  playing ;  I  think  she 
will  make  one  of  the  best  players  I  ever  heard  on  the  harp- 
sichord :  they  are  agreeable  well-behaved  girls,  and  Jemmy 
a  pretty  modest  lad. 

Mrs.  E.  came  yesterday  in  the  afternoon,  and  the 
Bishop  of  Gloucester,  who  enquired  much  after  you,  and 
expressed  concern  of  your  not  being  perfectly  well :  we 
dine  with  him  on  Monday.  What  a  strange  inconsistent 
letter  is  this,  my  dearest  sister !  rambling  like  my  poor 
fluttered  head ;  and  yet  I  think  I  find  myself  well  com- 
posed to-day,  and  I  intend  going  to  church ;  for  there  is, 
after  all,  but  one  method  that  can  compose  the  mind 
properly — which  is,  performing  our  duty  to  the  best  of 
our  capacity,  and  praying  for  grace  to  sustain  us  under 
aU  trials.  Mrs.  Viney  has  begged  so  hard  that  we  would 
stay  till  Thursday,  that  we  have  yielded  to  her  solicita- 


*  Mayfield,  near  Galwich,  in  Staffordshire. 

*  Dr.  Martin  Benson,  Prebendary  of  Durham,  made  Bishop  of  Gloucester, 
1734,  died  1752. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


508  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

tions  :  we  shall  hardly  leave  it  till  Monday  or  Tuesday. 
Don't  expect  us ;  we  will  come  as  soon  as  possible.  On 
Thursday  we  propose  going  to  Cheltenham.  I  am  sure 
you  know  and  believe  that  the  dear  little  boy  shall  have 
all  manner  of  care  taken  of  him ;  he  will  be  no  sort  of 
trouble  to  us,  but  a  great  entertainment.  And  now 
adieu.  God  bless  you  ! —  A  thousand  kind  services  and 
wishes  attend  you  from  hence.  I  think  I  feel  rather 
more  impatience  to  see  you  now  than  when  I  landed  at 
Park  Gate.    Once  more  adieu. 

Mrs.  Delany's  visit  to  Gloucester  to  see  her  mother's  tomb,  and 
10  comfort  her  old  friend  Mrs.  Viney,  was  another  among  the 
numerous  instances  of  the  deep  feeling  she  possessed,  and  of  the 
principle  of  duty  which  she  ever  followed.  A  journey  to  Glou- 
cester fifom  Wellesboum  was  no  trifling  expedition  in  thoee  dajs ; 
and  it  was  evident  that  there  was  no  one  at  Gloucester  who  in- 
dividually gave  her  any  pleasure — their  value  being  merely  that 
of  association.  Her  sister  was  absent,  her  mother  was  dead,  but 
she  did  not  rest  until  she  had  visited  the  grave  of  one  she  so  much 
honoured  in  life,  and  administered  consolation  to  the  old  surviving 
friend,  whose  desolation  she  had  before  commented  upon,  while 
her  own  sorrow  yras  so  recent.  The  good  Dean  accompanied  her, 
and  as  usual  participated  in  her  sorrow  as  he  ever  did  in  her  joys, 
and  showed  that  invariable  sympathy  which  first  won  her  regard, 
and  afterwards  secured  her  attachment. 

Mrs.  Granville  was  buried  in  a  tomb  outside  the  cathedral  at 
Gloucester,  but  within  the  iron  railing  of  its  inclosure,  and  near 
the  walls  of  that  sacred  edifice,  where  it  may  still  be  seen  standing 
alone,  with  the  following  inscription :  "  Here  hes  interred  the  body 
of  Mary  Granville,  daughter  of  Sir  Martin  Westcomb,  Baronet; 
relict  of  Colonel  Bernard  Granville,  who  passed  a  long  widowhood 
in  this  city,  leading  a  most  exemplary  life,  doing  all  the  good  to 
her  poor  neighbours  that  her  income  allowed  of." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  r»09 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Birmingham,  17  Aug.,  1749. 

My  dearest  sister, 

How  painfal  it  is  to  leave  you,  though  I  have  the 
flattering  hope  of  our  meeting  soon  again ;  but  I  left 
you  not  well  and  I  shall  not  hear  of  you  this  age.  You 
were  excessively  good  in  sending  me  word  this  morning 
you  had  had  a  good  night.  Our  little  Pauline  did  not 
rest  very  well:  I  saw  her  and  gave  her  my  blessing. 
Were  you  out  with  me  to-day  ? 

Now  a  word  or  two  of  our  notable  expedition  to  Bir- 
mingham. The  first  part  I  suppose  Frank  has  acquainted 
you  with,  and  my  running  away  with  him  to  Stratford, 
where  he  got  us  the  horse  we  wanted  for  Bennet :  well, 
on  we  drove,  hooping  on  very  restive  horses,  and  Mr. 
Shackle  came  roaring  that  we  had  killed  his  cattle.  All 
his  unreasonableness  a  letter  can't  contain,  nor  this 
skewer  of  a  pen  write,  but  thus  it  has  ended :  we  have  sent 
a  messenger  to  Calwich  to  notify  to  the  squire  that  we 
cannot  be  with  him  before  supper-time,  and  have 
amused  ourselves  here  as  follows: — we  sent  for  Mr. 
Priest  to  tell  him  of  Shackle's  impertinence,  and  after 
dinner  walked  to  Vauxhall,  a  good  mile  firom  hence.  The 
garden  is  very  neat  and  pretty,  with  a  handsome  bowling 
green  and  seats  in  several  parts  of  the  garden  ;  in  one  of 
them  we  drank  tea,  eat  bread  and  butter,  and  Bhenish 
and  sugar.  In  our  way  home  we  stumbled  among  a  crowd, 
enquired  what  was  the  matter,  was  told  a  methodist 
preacher  was  going  to  hold  forth  in  the  street.  We  stop- 
ped a  good  while  in  hopes  of  being  edified,  but  our  patience 
would  not  hold  out  till  sufficient  quantity  of  mob  were 


Digitized  by 


Google 


510  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

gathered  for  a  congregation,  so  home  we  came,  Mr.  Priest 
with  118,  to  our  mutton-broth  and  roast  pigeons  (but  not 
such  mutton  and  pigeons-  as  Welsboume  produces). 
We  are  to  have  four  horses  and  a  postilion  to-morrow  at 
,the  door  by  5  to  carry  us  to  Calwich :  we  dine  I  don't 
know  where.  The  landlord  here  has  promised  to  send 
this  to  Stratford  to  Mr.  Bot  on  Saturday. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Detoes, 

Calwich,  19  Aug.,  1749. 

I  wrote  to  my  dearest  sister  on  Thursday  night  at 
Birmingham  with  an  account  of  all  that  had  past  from 
the  time  of  my  leaviug  Welsboume.  We  accommodated 
matters  with  our  imposing  coachman  Mr.  Shackle  (by-the- 
by  a  very  great  rogue)  and  set  out  next  day  from  Binning^ 
ham  at  6  with  four  horses  and  one  postilion ;  dined  at 
Ousley  Bridge,  were  met  by  Eichard  Hall  near  Uttoxeter 
and  got  to  Calwich  before  8 :  the  joy  of  seeing  my 
brother  made  me  soon  forget  all  the  disagreeable  part  of 
my  journey.  My  brother  says,  that  you  may  not  lie  two 
nights  on  the  road,  that  his  chaise  shall  meet  you  at 
Abbot  Bromley  and  bring  you  here,  and  your  own  chariot 
may  rest  and  come  on  the  day  after.  I  hope  you  wHl  be 
able  in  your  answer  to  this  to  give  us  some  notice  of  the 
time  of  your  coming. 

I  will  tell  you  nothing  about  Calwich  but  that  I  am 
delighted  with  it,  and  have  sauntered  about  all  this 
morning.  When  we  were  at  dinner  at  Ouseley  Bridge, 
a  little  boy  about  Bunny's  age  (but  not  such  a  boy)  peeped 
in,  and  there  being  some  jelly  of  currants  on  the  table  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  511 

fancied  the  child  had  a  mind  to  it  and  sent  them  to  him, 
and  presently  after  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Kinnersley*  came  to 
thank  me  for  my  kindness ;  they  enquired  much  after  you, 
aud  desired  their  compliments.  I  have  been  so  silly  as  to 
foi^t  franks.  I  must  beg  the  favour  of  you  to  get  a  dozen 
or  two  for  me  from  Sir  Charles  Mordaunt ;  you  will  find 
paper  in  the  middle  drawer  of  the  walnut  table  in  my 
closet :  a  dozen  wiU  do  if  I  am  to  see  you  soon.^  I 
don't  know  but  you  will  find  a  few  of  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land's in  the  drawer  with  the  paper. 

The  verdure  here  is  in  high  beauty,  and  we  saw  great 
quantities  of  new  com  in  the  haggards  as  we  came  along 
through  Staffordshire.  I  found  a  letter  from  Miss  Qran- 
ville  vdth  a  receipt  for  you,  but  I  hope  you  will  never 
have  occasion  to  make  use  of  it.  Mrs.  Einnersley  told 
me  that  her  little  boy  who  was  with  her  had  two  years 
ago  so  violent  a  fever  that  nobody  thought  the  child  could 
recover,  and  that  he  wa3  reduced  to  so  great  weakness 
as  not  to  be  able,  to  stand  alone  for  a  considerable  time 
after  it :  since  his  recovery  he  has  had  better  health  thai^ 
ever  he  had,  and  so  will,  I  hope,  our  little  Mary.  I  have 
great  dependance  on  asses'  milk  imd  exercise,  which  I 
hope  in  God  will  perfectly  restore  her,  and  I  shall  be  glad 
to  hear  of  your  having  both  been  on  horseback. 


^  Thomafl-Kynnereley,  of  Loxley,  Esq.,  county  of  Stafford,  an  officer  in  the 
nayy,  married  Penelope,  only  daughter  of  John  Wheeler,  of  Wootton,  Esq. 

'  Franks  were  never  dated  at  the  period  of  this  letter,  but  the  ladies  pro- 
vided themselves  with  packets  of  half  sheets  folded  and  signed  by  members  of 
either  House  of  Parliament,  which  lasted  for  months,  and  on  which  they  wrote 
themselves  whatever  address  was  required. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


512  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mr9.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Calwich,  25th  Aug.,  1794. 

Many  happy  returns  of  this  day  *  may  my  dear  brother 
and  sister  Dewes  enjoy !  I  not  only  speak  for  myself  but 
for  all  here,  whose  kind  service  and  wishes  attend  you 
very  affectionately.  I  doubt  this  second  distress  about 
your  children  will  make  you  negligent^of  yourself  and 
give  all  your  attention  to  them.  As  to  your  coming  here, 
it  is  unnecessary  to  say  what  pleasure  it  will  be  to  us  all, 
but  don't  let  any  indulgence  to  us  make  you  do  what 
may  give  you  uneasiness.  It  is  hard  to  give  up  such  a 
joy  as  your  company,  particularly  to  me  who  cannot 
always  be  in  the  way  of  having  such  a  happiness ;  but 
it  would  be  cruel  to  press  you  to  come,  unless  you  can  do 
it  with  perfect  ease  to  yourself.  After  the  fatigue  of 
body  and  mind  you  have  gone  through  the  change 
of  air,  the  sweetness  of  Calwich,  and  the  satisfaction  of 
our  being  all  together,  will  refresh  your  spirits  and  be 
of  great  service  to  your  health.  But  if  that  is  not  to 
be,  I  will  come  to  you  as  soon  as  possible,  and  I  know 
nothing  wiU  keep  you  from  us,  but  you  or  your  children's 
illness.  Mr.  Dewes  did  very  right  in  opening  D.D.'s 
letter,  and  you  in  opening  mine ;  do  the  same  by  any 
that  come  to  your  hands  that  you  think  will  give  you  any 
intelligence  you  wish  to  have. 

We  have  had  very  pleasant  weather  since  our  being 
here,  except  last  Tuesday  ;  when  we  had  the  most  violent 
tempest  of  thunder,  lightning,  rain  and  hail,  that  ever  I 
remember  to  have  seen  or  heard.     It  began  about  5  in 


^  25th  August,  Anne  Gnuiville's  wedding  day. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  513 

the  afternoon  and  lasted  till  4  in  the  morning.  The  thun- 
der and  lightning  never  ceased ;  it  abated  about  half  an 
hour  and  then  came  on  with  greater  violence  again.  We 
had  three  claps  that  shook  the  house — ^it  was  like  the 
p  going  off  of  a  cannon  at  the  window.  I  thank  God  no 
damage  was  done,  and  though  I  waa  startled  at  the 
loud  claps,  I  was  much  less  terrified  than  I  have  been 
formerly  at  much  less  storms. 

On  Wednesday  the  Okeovers  and  Doxeys  dined  here, 
and  the  heiress  Miss  Nichols ;  she  is  a  fine  lively  girl,  but 
wants  a  good  deal  of  modelling.  To-morrow  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Kinnersley  dine  here.  This  afternoon  we  go  to  Snelston. 
I  have  had  no  letter  about  the  nurse  for  Mrs.  Foley.  The 
Duchess  of  Portland  got  safe  to  Welbeck  ;  I  had  a  few 
lines  fipom  her  yesterday.  You  must  bring  Jenny's  mare, 
for  my  brother  agrees  with  me  and  other  physicians  that 
riding  is  absolutely  necessary  for  you,  and  you  ought 
not  to  neglect  it  a  day.  Don't  forget  a  bundle  of  franks. 
Can  you  conveniently  bring  my  green  and  white  linen 
sack,  ^  it  hangs  in  the  painting-room,  if  you  can't  it  is 
no  matter. 


Mr$,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewet. 

Calwich,  4  Sept.  1749. 

I  shall  think  the  time  long  till  Thursday  next,  and 
hope  in  God  then  to*  receive  comfortable  news  of  you  and 
your  dear  children;    I  shall  then  be  able  to  judge  if 

'  Linen  gowns  of  all  desoriptions  were  constantly  in  use  in  those  days,  and 
it  is  surprising  that'  they  have  not  been  revived,  as  the  texture  is  so  superior 
to  cotton.  They  were  printed  like  chintz,  and  also  dyed  in  plain  colours  and 
in  stripes. 

VOL.  II.  2  L 


Digitized  by 


Google 


514  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

there  can  be  any  hopes  of  your  coming  here  (though  I 
greatly  fear  not),  and  then  I  shall  fix  my  time  of  return- 
ing to  yotu  To  have  lost  so  mnch  of  your  company  on 
so  sad  an  occasion  is  grievous;  and  I  am  convinced, 
from  too  frequent  experience,  that  to  be  absent  from  a  * 
dear  friend  at  the  time  of  sickness  or  distress  is  more 
paLnftd  than  being  with  them,  as  it  is  attended  with  a 
constant  suspicion  of  things  being  worse  than  perhaps 
they  have  really  been  in  every  particular.  D.D.'s  illness 
last  week  prevented  our  going  to  Okeover,  but  we  think 
of  going  next  Wednesday ;  and  Loxley  we  intend  taking 
on  our  way  home  and  staying  there  a  day  or  two. 

As  to  the  shells  *  I  hope  you  have  not  sent  them,  as 
they  will  come  too  late  for  me  to  do  any  work  with : 
had  you  brought  them  and  we  had  all  worked  together 
it  would  have  been  delightful,  but  that  scheme  is  now 
over.  Sickness  and  sorrow  will  attend  us  on  our  journey 
through  this  vale  of  tears ;  and  if  we  are  so  blest  as  to 
have  intervals  of  health  and  joy  we  ought  to  be  thankfiil. 
But  when  I  am  lamenting  your  tenderness  of  constitution, 
and  pain  on  your  children's  account,  to  balance  that  I 
consider  your  strength  of  mind  and  happy  fortitude  on  all 
occasions.  I  view  these  melancholy  scenes  as  so  many 
trials  of  your  virtue,  and  this  is  a  consolation  not  to  be 
met  with  from  any  other  consideration ;  and  reconciles 
me  even  to  your  distresses. 

I  hope  when  Lord  North  comes  into  this  neighbour- 
hood he  will  come  for  a  day  to  CaLwich,  as  my  brother 
would  be  extremely  glad  to  see  him  here,  though  he  says 


*  Mrs.  Delany  made  a  grotto  at  Calwich,  \?hich  the  Editor  well  remembcre 
seeing  as  a  child.  It  was  entirely  lined  with  shell  work  done  by  herself  and 
her  sister. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


•'  OF  MRS.  DELANY.  515 

he  shall  be  afraid  of  his  drawing  him  in  to  do  a  great  deal 
more,  but  he  has  a  great  opinion  of  his  fancy  and  judg- 
ment.   Is  Miss  Wheeler  Mrs.  Mills  ? 

After  this  letter  Mrs,  Delany  returned  to  Wellesboume,  where 
she  remained  till  the  second  week  in  November. 


Mn,  Ddanyto  Mrs.Dtwe». 

Oxford,  Sunday  morning,  9  o'clock. 
12  Nov.  1749. 

No  post  went  out  last  night :  it  goes  to-night  at 
seven,  and  I  caonot  let  it  go  without  sending  my 
dearest  sister  a  journal  of  the  heavy  hours  that  have 
passed  since  I  left  her.  We  got  to  Euston  about  one, 
were  delayed  half  an  hour  on  the  road  by  the  car  wheels 
breaking,  no  overturn,  but  Smith  was  forced  to  be  hoisted 
up  behind  Bennet  vnthout  any  pillion,  and  James  came 
wabbling  on  with  the  broken  equipage,  his  FrihblesMp 
much  ruffled.  I  feasted  at  Euston  on  your  good  provi- 
sion, but  not  very  hungry :  we  staid  about  two  hours. 
About  three  miles  from  Oxford  we  had  like  to  have  lost 
one  of  our  forewlteehy  but  fortunately  saw  our  danger 
before  any  bad  accident.  The  coachman  pretty  soon 
repaired  tiie  loss,  and  we  arrived  at  Oxford  about  six. 
We  sent  for  Mr.  Viney,  but  being  weary  and  low- 
spirited  we  did  not  care  for  any  other  company :  he  is 
much  pleased  with  his  plum-cake,  and  obliged  to  his 
little  friend  for  it ;  this  morning  we  are  very  well.  D  D. 
and  Viney  are  gone  to  eight  o'clock  prayers — I  am  pre- 
paring their  breakfast  for  them,  and  at  ten  shall  go  to 
University  Church  ;  after  that  will  resume  my  pen. 

2l2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


516  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mr.  Cleaver  preached  a  very  ingenious  and  proper  dis- 
course on  the  great  advantages  of  being  well  acquainted 
with  the  Scriptures :  it  was  nearly  an  hour  long.  From 
thence  we  went,  escorted  by  the  GreaJt  Shaw,  *  to  see 
several  of  the  colleges.  He  asked  very  particularly 
after  you,  and  hopes  you  forgive  his  taxing  you  with 
being  scribe  to  the  letter ;  he  now  has  found  out  a  hand 
like  it,  who  he  is  sure  must  be  the  person  that  sent  it, 
and  would  show  it  me,  but  his  wife  coming  soon  into 
the  room  prevented  my  asking  to  see  it.  I  fear  I  shall 
not  be  able  to  add  any  more  to  this ;  Shaw,  his  wife, 
daughter,  and  Mr.  Viney  dine  here,  and  in  the  afternoon 
Lord  Lewisham*  and  Mr.  North  ^  drink  tea.  Dinner  is 
on  table. 

Bulstrode,  13  Nov.  1749. 

Upon  examination  I  found  that  this  letter  will  reach 
you  as  soon  from  hence  as  it  would  have  done  from 
Oxford,  so  I  brought  it  on  to  add  the  sequel  of  my 
journal. 

The  young  men  drank  tea  with  us  as  expected.  Much 
disappointed  Lord  Lewisham  was  that  I  would  not  stay 

>  Dr.  Thomas  Shaw,  bom  1692,  died  1751.  A  great  traveller  in  Egypt  and 
the  Holy  Land  and  Africa.  In  1740  he  was  nominated  principal  of  St.  Etl- 
mund's  Hall,  which  he  soon  repaired,  and  restored  from  a  ruinous  state  by  his 
munificence.  He  was  also  made  Regius  Professor  of  Greek  at  Oxford.  The 
work  of  Dr.  Shaw,  which  has  been  translated  into  the  French,  Dutch,  and 
German  languages,  is  the  best  that  has  been  written  containing  an  account  of 
the  Algcrine  and  Tunisian  states.  His  geographical  researches  threw  light 
upon  the  ancient  and  modem  state  of  Kumidia.  In  the  course  of  his  travels 
he  collected  nearly  600  plants,  of  which  140  were  newly  discovered,  besides  an 
immense  number  of  minerals  and  medals,  many  of  which  he  presented  to  public 
institutions. 

*  William  Viscount  Lewisham,  born  in  1731,  succeeded  to  the  Earl4om  of 
Dartmontb  on  the  death  of  his  grandfather,  15th  December,  1750. 

>  Frederic,  son  of  the  1st  Earl  of  Guildford,  bom  12th  April,  1732,  and 
afterwards  the  well-known  Prime  Minister,  Lord  North. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  517 

long  enough  to  visit  his  rooms;  they  staid  till  near 
eight.  We  kept  Jemmy  Viney  to  eat  mutton  broth 
with  ns ;  went  to  bed  early,  and  rose  at  half  an  hour 
after  five,  breakfasted  at  nine  at  Tetsworth,  dmed  at 
twelve  at  Wickam,  got  here  at  half  an  hour  after  three ; 
but  what  was  my  vexation  when  upon  enquiring  after 
the  Duchess,  found  she  was  gone  to  London,  Lord  Titch- 
field  had  a  feverish  disorder,  and  she  and  the  Duke  were 
gone  ofi"  with  Babess  to  town,  and  they  did  not  know  when 
they  were  to  return ;  and  for  my  consolation  here  was 
Lady  Bell  Monck  1  I  can't  say  I  entered  the  house  with 
a  very  good  grace,  but  at  last  I  was  brought  to  myself 
by  the  caresses  and  obliging  behaviour  of  Lady  Betty  and 
Lady  Harriot,  and  a  messenger  is  just  come  to  say  Lord 
Titchfield  is  pretty  well  again,  and  I  hope  the  Duchess 
will  return  on  Wednesday.  My  spirits  were  so  sunk  on 
leaving  my  dearest  sister  that  I  could  not  aU  the  way 
raise  them  till  I  saw  the  walls  of  Bulstrode,  and  then 
the  thought  of  surprizing  the  Duchess  a  day  sooner 
than  she  expected  cheered  and  revived  me.  We  had  a 
very  pleasant  journey.  Whenever  you  hire  horses  let  it 
be  from  the  man  we  had  ours  of  in  Oxford ;  we  had  ex- 
cellent cattle,  and  the  civilest  best  humoured  coachman 
and  admirable  driver  that  ever  was  hired,  his  name  is 
Thomas  Bobinson.  Lady  Bell  occupies  the  yellow  apart- 
ment, Babess  has  the  ground  room,  and  we  have  Lady 
Oxford's  apartment. 

Mrs.  Elstob  is  pretty  well,  and  Mr.  Achard  in  good 
spirits. 

I  left  the  Irish  notes  for  Mr.  Dewes  on  the  harpsi- 
chord. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


518  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Lord  Guernsey  *  is  to  have  Lady  Charlotte  Seymour  for 
certain.  Have  you  had  any  account  from  Coventry  of 
the  two  boxes  of  shells  P 


Mn.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Bulstrode,  U  Nov.  1749. 

Lord  Titchfield  is  much  better — ^his  fever  quite  left 
him ;  but  as  he  is  to  take  physic  to-morrow,  the  Duchess 
don't  care  to  leave  him  till  the  day  after,  but  begs  of  us  to 
come  to  town  and  settle  our  affairs,  that  I  may  not  be 
obliged  to  leave  her  when  she  comes  to  Bulstrode.  I 
suppose  we  shall  return  together  on  Friday  or  Saturday. 
The  enclosed  came  from  my  nepheio's  mistress^  last  post. 
I  hope  he  will  be  in  good  spirits  to  answer  it. 

Yesterday  morning,  after  breakfast,  we  all  sallied 
forth  to  walk.  We  fed  all  the  animals,  such  as  bantams, 
guinea-fowl,  pheasants,  peacock,  ducks,  drakes,  widgeon, 
teal,  and  an  animal  that  is  neither  monkey,  fox,  nor  squir- 
ell,  but  something  of  each  creature,  very  harmless  and 
tame,  kept  in  the  flower-garden,  and  has  a  hard  name 
which  I  can't  remember ;  it  is  larger  than  a  great  cat.  In 
the  evening  we  tea  at  the  usual  time,  and  worked  till 
supper ;  after  supper  played  at  cribbage — Lady  Bell  and  I 
against  our  husbands ;  and  in  our  last  game  we  had  in 


'  Henenge  Lord  Guernsey  married,  6th  October,  1750,  Charlotte,  daoghter 
of  Charles,  6th  Duke  of  Somerset.  He  succeeded  his  father  in  the  Earldom  of 
Aylesford,  29th  June,  1757,  and  died  May  9,  1777. 

'  Miss  Mary  Hamilton,  who  kept  up  a  correspondence  as  a  child  mth  Court, 
the  eldest  son  of  Mrs.  Dewes.  Miss  Hamilton  married,  1763,  the  Rev. 
Nathaniel  Preston,  of  Swainston,  county  Meath. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  519 

playing  a  1 5,  a  pavroyal,  a  double  peroyal,  a  second  peroydL^ 
and  an  end  gaine^  which  was  27.  To-morrow  morning  we 
propose  setting  out  as  soon  as  it  is  light,  and  now  I  am 
called  to  tea,  and  shall  not  be  able  to  write  again  to  you 
till  Monday. 


Mr$.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Bulstrode,  20  Nov.  1749. 

I  shall  now  proceed  to  tell  where  I  have  been,  and 
what  I  have  been  doing  since  my  last  letter.  On  Thurs- 
day morning  we  got  horses  from  Uxbridge,  and  went  to 
town  in  our  chaise,  Smith  on  a  stool  at  our  feet.  We 
stopped  in  Park  Street  at  our  brother's,  who  did  not  expect 
such  visitors.  He  was  glad  to  see  us,  and  we  to  see  him ; 
he  looked  well  but  complained  of  a  cold  in  his  head.  He 
would  have  had  us  dine  with  him,  but  I  was  obliged  to  go 
on  to  Whitehall,  as  the  Duchess  of  Portland  was  in  doubt 
about  our  coming,  and  had  been  so  good  as  to  offer  us 
rooms  there  ;  so  on  we  went,  found  the  Duke  at  home^ 
Mr.  Lambert  with  him ;  Mrs.  Lambert  and  little  boy  very 
well.  D.D.  went  to  dine  at  Mrs.  Percival's,  to  enquire  if 
Donnellan  had  got  us  a  house.  It  was  near  three  :  I  dressed 
myself,  and  by  that  time  the  Duchess  came  home ;  Babess 
was  gone  to  her  sister.  I  dined  with  the  Duke  and  Duchess 
at  the  Bishop  of  St.  Asaph's.  Visited  Lord  Titchfield,  and 
drank  tea  with  him  in  the  afternoon;  he  haa  been  very  ill, 
but  is  well  again,  only  alittle  weak ;  he  is  a  charming  boy 
and  learns  £sister  than  his  master  desires  he  should ;  goes 
into  the  4th  form  as  soon  as  he  is  well  enough  to  return 
to  school.  I  left  him  at  7,  and  went  to  Whitehall  with  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


520  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

bad  headache*  Babess  came  home  soon,  and  Lady  Bute^ 
followed,  and  then  the  Duke  and  Duchess.  I  went  to  bed 
as  soon  as  I  had  supped ;  and  between  nine  and  ten,  D.D. 
and  I  set  out  a  house-hunting,  and  after  much  fatigue 
met  with  a  very  pretty  little  house  in  St.  James  Place, 
that  we  have  taken :  and  what  pleases  us  both  extremely 
is  that  there  is  a  very  good  bed-chamber,  a  large  dressing- 
room  (or  drawing-room  if  you  please),  a  little  room  for  a 
servant,  and  a  light  closet  within  the  bed-chamber,  which 
we  hope  my  dearest  sister  will  make  her  apartment  before 
the  first  of  March.  Lent  begins  and  oratorios  in  February  ; 
and  what  additional  harmony  your  conversation  will  be 
I  leave  those  to  judge  who  know  how  well  we  accord. 

I  am  at  last  relieved  from  the  perplexity  I  was  in  about 
a  certain  person's  coming  to  town  to  me  by  D.D.  who  has 
very  kindly  asked  Miss  Granville  to  be  with  us  till  you 
come  to  town,  which  she  has  promised  to  do,  and  as  I 
mentioned  that  to  Mrs.  Viney  (when  she  spoke  of  her 
daughter's  coming)  as  a  thing  likely  to  happen, 
I  think  it  will  put  a  stop  to  that  affair  very  well,  and  I 
hope  not  give  her  any  offence ;  for  I  have  so  great  an 
esteem  for  her,  that  it  would  grieve  me  to  disoblige  her. 
Poor  Betty  Granville  is  in  a  very  dangerous  sfaite  of 
health — a  constant  cough  and  pain  on  her  chest,  no  appe- 
tite, no  sleep,  though  they  give  her  laudanum,  and  Babess 
is  in  a  miserable  way  about  her.  Lady  Bell  Monck 
is  here:  they  were  to  have  left  us  to-morrow,  bat 
a  violent  creek  has  seized  Mr.  Monck's  neck,  and  he  can't 
stir.  The  Duchess  is  very  well,  and  very  sorry  she  had 
not  the  pleasure  of  seeing  you,  but  as  things  have 

*  Lady  Bute,  daughter  of  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu,  \4ife  of  Jhon  Earl 
of  Bute. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  521 

Iiappened  it  is  well  you  did  not  come  as  you  proposed,  for 
Lord  Titchfield's  illness  kept  her  a  whole  week  in  town, 
and  it  would  have  been  a  mortification  to  her,  I  am  so 
much  pleased  with  Lady  Betty  and  Toz  that  I  must  again 
repeat  that  I  never  saw  two  such  agreeable  girls  of  their 
age  in  my  life — so  civil,  lively,  humble,  and  conversable ; 
they  are  doatingly  fond  of  the  Duchess,  never  so  happy 
as  in  her  company,  and  at  the  same  time  in  such  awe  that 
they  watch  every  motion  and  look  to  observe  if  she 
approves  of  what  they  say  and  do. 

All  the  talk  at  present  is  about  Lady  Mary  Cook^  and 
her  strange  Lord,  She  has  been  cruelly  treated  by  him 
and  his  father  (who  perhaps  will  see  what  I  write  of  him, 
for  he  examines  all  letters  that  pass) :  he  wiU  reap  but 
Uttle  satis&ction  from  that  employment,  and,  like  lis- 
teners, hear  no  good  of  himself.  There  was  a  great 
meeting  at  Westminster  Hall  last  Friday,  where  she  was 
produced  in  Court,  lead  in  by  my  Lord  Cook ;  she  peti- 
tioned for  leave  to  see  her  relations,  lawyers,  and  physi- 
cians, which  was  granted  :  what  next  will  be  done  nobody 
knows,  but  a  modest  woman  is  much  to  be  pitied  who 
undergoes  what  she  must  do  if  a  trial  comes  on. 

The  Duke  and  Duchess  go  to  town  next  Friday,  and 
return  on  Monday :  I  shall  go  with  them  to  settle  all 
particulars  about  my  house.  I  saw  Miss  Sutton  and  her 
brother  Dick  on  Friday  morning  (after  we  had  seen 
houses)  at  Mr.  Percival's.  Our  chaise  took  us  up  there 
at  half  an  hour  after  eleven ;  we  called  on  my  brother,  his 
cold  better,  and  he  abroad.     We  then  drove  away  to 


*  Lady  Mary  Campbell,  daughter  and  oo-heiressof  John  Dnke  of  Argyll  and 
Greenwich,  married,  in  1747,  Edward  Viscount  Coke,  only  son  of  Thomas 
Coke,  Earl  of  Leicester. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


522  LIFE  AND  G0BRESF0N1»:NCE 

Bolstrode,  and  got  here  at  half  an  hour  after  three,  ex- 
pecting the  Duke,  etc.,  would  be  here  soon  after ;  hat  a 
messenger  came  to  tell  us  that  their  coach  brake  down  in 
Westminster  as  they  were  coming  out  of  town,  so  tiiey 
did  not  come  till  Saturday.  Now  we  are  rummaging  and 
sorting  shells,  and  making  preparaidons  for  a  thousand 
works  more  than  we  shall  have  time  to  finish.  Gould 
you  any  way  contrive  to  send  me  12  or  14  of  your 
cleaned  mussels,  those  that  look  transparent;  I  will 
faithiuUy  repay  you. 


Mrs.  Dekmy  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Bulstrode,  26  Nor.  1749. 

I  am  now,  I  assure  you,  as  well  as  you  can  wish  me 
to  be,  I  had  promised  the  Duchess  of  Portland  to  go  to 
town  with  her  as  last  Friday,  but  was  so  prudent  as  to 
let  her  go  by  herself,  though  I  really  had  business 
besides  the  pleasure  of  being  with  her :  she  and  the 
Duke  return  to-morrow  to  dinner.  Yesterday  Lady 
Bell  Monck  was  dying  with  a  gouty  cholic,  and  she 
scared  us  all ;  however  it  is  all  over  now,  and  she  only 
complains  of  a  violent  soreness  where  the  pain  was. 
Mr.  Monck  has  been  confined  for  a  week  past  with  a 
swelled  face,  and  Mr.  Achard  with  a  cough,  so  that  we 
have  been  a  house  of  invalids.  L.  B.  M.  is  a  sad  check 
upon  our  pleasures ;  they  have  named  three  different 
days  for  going  away,  and  yet  they  are  here,  and  I  fear 
will  be  as  long  as  we  stay  in  the  country,  which  is  truly 
a  mortification ;  the  Duchess  behaves  herself  in  the 
most  obliging  and  proper  manner  that  can  be  towards 
her,  but  it  is  much  thrown  away,  however,  it  becomes 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  523 

her  80  to  do,  though  her  pearls  are  unregarded.  Babess 
and  the  Gracelings  have  shewn  me  much  affection  and 
tenderness,  and  we  have  had  much  enjoyment  of  one 
another  since  my  confinement  to  my  room.  Lord 
Titchfield  is  very  well  again,  and  goes  to  school  to- 
morrow ;  the  Duchess  charges  me  with  kind  love  to 
you. 

I  thbught  you  would  be  disappointed  in  Gaudentio.^  I 
know  it  did  not  charm  me ;  D.D.  told  me  before  I 
read  it  that  there  "  was  little  in  it,**  and  unluckily  for 
Oaudentio  I  had  just  been  reading  Clarissa,  and  it  must 
have  been  an  extraordinary  book  that  would  have  been 
relished  after  that  I  ^^  Tom  Jones/'  in  his  married  state, 
is  a  poor  thing^  and  not  written  by  Fielding.  Lady 
Mary  Cook  fainted  away  when  she  was  brought  into 
Westminster  Hall ;  she  is  at  present  in  her  vile  hus- 
band's custody,  and  now  confined  in  a  little  dark  room  up 
two  pair  of  stairs ;  she  is  in  a  very  bad  state  of  health : 
her  mother,  sisters,  lawyers,  physician,  and  Lord  and 
Tiady  Bute  (her  near  relations)  are  permitted  to  see 
her  now  by  order  of  the  Court.  How  much  happier  is 
yowr  Namiy  Ward  than  Lady  Mary  Cook  with  all  her 
riches.  I  don't  find  she  has  by  her  conduct  in  any  way 
deserved  such  tyranny ;  the  worst  I  have  heard  of  her 
is  that  her  temper  is  not  good. 

Have  you  not  heard  of  the  second  box  of  Lish 
shells  ?  Mr.  Barber  writes  me  word  he  sent  them  the 
beginning  of  last  month,  directed  to  Mr.  Old  in  Coventry, 
as  I  desired  he  would  ;  if  that  is  gone  too,  I  shall  think 


^  The  History  of  Gaudentio  di  Lucca,  published  iu  1725.  Mrs.  Barbauld 
speaks  of  it  as  "  the  effusion  of  a  fine  fancy  and  a  refined  understanding  ;*'  and 
says  that  "  it  is  attributed  to  Bishop  Berkeley." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


524  LIFE  AND  OOBRESPONDENCE 

some  envious  sea  nymph  watches  an  oppoTtnnity  of 
seizing  a  treasure  belonging  to  her  own  regions,  jealous 
of  our  rivalling  her  with  her  own  productions.  It  will 
be  a  little  discouraging  if  we  meet  with  this  second  dis 
appointment.  When  Mr.  Harley  comes  I  will  remember 
the  sedan  chair ;  he  is  not  expected  till  the  week  before 
Xmas.  Dr.  Shaw  comes  here  neict  week  for  a  fortnight. 
Poor  Dr.  Young  is  in  great  trouble ;  his  daughter-in- 
law,  Mrs.  Haviland,*  (the  lady  he  recommended  to  me  in 
his  letter,)  is  dead,  it  is  said  she  died  suddenly  in  her 
coach  between  Drogheda  and  Dublin.  If  you  hear  of 
any  reports  of  a  disagreement  between  Lord  Anson* 
and  his  Lady  you  may  contradict  them — there  never  has 
been  any ;  she  is  a  little  coxcombical,  and  aflFecte  to  be 
learned,  which  may  sometimes  put  him  out  of  coun- 
tenance; but  Lord  Anson  is  a  most  generous,  good- 
natured,  amiable  man,  and  he  deserved  a  wife  of  more 
dignity.  Lady  Wallingford  has  been  extremely  ill,  but 
is  better.  She  is  in  a  wretched  state  of  health,  and  so  is 
our  cousin  Betty  Granville ;  she  went  in  the  morning 
to  the  Princess  of  Wales'  birthday,  but  looked  so  pale 
and  faint  that  both  the  Prince  and  Princess  desired  her 
not  to  come  at  night,  but  to  take  the  best  care  of  herself 
she  could.  Mrs.  Foley  proposes  being  in  town  the  9th 
next  month ;  Mrs.  Stock  leaves  her,  and  has  taken  a 
house  in  Cleveland  Court. 

Dr.  and  Mrs.  Tomlinson  are  to  be  in  London  this 


1  Lady  Elizabeth  Toung  had  two  daughters — ^tbe  eldest  married  Qie  Hon. 
Mr.  Temple,  son  of  Lord  Falmerston,  and  died  of  oonsumption  at  Lyons;  the 
youngest,  Caroline,  married  Major  Haviland,  with  whom  she  went  to  reside  in 
Ireland. 

2  George  Lord  Anson,  the  celebrated  naval  commander,  married  Lady 
Elizabeth  York,  daughter  of  Thilip,  1st  Earl  of  Hardwiok* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


.  OF  MRS.  DELANY.  525 

winter.  Mjr  brother  is  very  well,  and  Donnellan. 
Smith  desires  humble  duty ;  I  can't  guess  what  you 
mean  by  '^the  Drichess'  tickets^''  unless  some  of  her  visiting 
tickets,  which  are  stampt,  slipped  accidentally  into  your 
letter.  Could  you  procure  a  slip,  or  root  more  properly 
speaking,  of  Mr,  Sherwood's  fine  dark  polyanthus,  and 
send  it  in  a  pot  of  earth  packed  up  in  a  basket  to  be 
left  at  Gbrrard's  Cross,  directed  to  the  Duchess  of  Port-" 
land  ?  I  don't  know  whether  this  is  a  time  for  removing 
them. 

Lady  Nassau  Pawlet^  is  n^ ;  she  says  she  will  murder 
her  daughter  (a  girl  about  nine  years  old,  her  only  child), 
for  she  killed  her  brother  !  Lady  Nassau's  two  sisters — 
Lady  Grower*  and  Lady  Leicester,^  Lord  Cook's  mother — 
are  so  much  taken  up  with  persecuting  poor  Lady  Mary 
Cook,  that  they  have  no  thought  of  their  unhappy  niece. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Detoes. 

Bulstrode,  4  Dec.,  1749. 

I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  my  brother ;  he  is  very 
well.  I  know  nothing  of  Sir  Tony,  but  suppose  if  any- 
thing extraordinary  ailed  him  my  brother  would  have 
mentioned  him.  Your  wish  has  at  last  prevailed,  and  we 
are  free  from  all  inters^  but  not  till  last  Friday,  so  now 


^  Lady  Isabella^  daughter  of  Thomas,  6th  Earl  of  Thanet,  married  Lord 
Nassau  Pawlct,  brother  to  the  Duke  of  Bolton. 

«  The  Lady  Mary  Tnfton,  a  daughter  of  Thomas,  6th  Earl  of  Tbanet,  was 
bom  in  1701.  She  married,  Ist,  Anthony  Earl  Harold,  last  surviving  son  of 
Henry  De  Grey  Duke  of  Kent,  April  17,  1718,  and  on  his  death  became  the 
third  wife  of  John,  Ist  Earl  Gower. 

3  Lady  Margaret,  daughter  of  Thomas,  6th  Earl  of  Thanet,  married  July  2, 
1718,  Thomas  Earl  of  Leicester. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


526  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

otir  tStes-k-tdtes  and  works  go  on  swimmingly.  I  have 
begun  to  put  on  the  shells  on  the  lustre,  and  hope  it  will 
be  finished  in  less  than  a  fortnight :  we  could  do  nothing 
whilst  some  company  were  in  the  house  who  were  to 
be  treated  with  ceremony!  Poor  Babess's  apprehen- 
sions for  her  sister  increase — she  went  to  town  this 
morning.  One  day  last  week  (Friday,  I  think)  she  had 
a  letter  from  one  of  the  Maids  of  Honour  to  say  that  she 
supposed  she  did  not  think  Mrs.  B.  Gt}  so  ill  as  she  reaUy 
was,  and  that  she  was  grown  a  great  deal  weaker  and 
none  of  her  complaints  removed.  This  terrified  Babess 
extremely ;  she  was  for  going  instantly  to  town,  but 
we  prevailed  on  her  to  stay  till  to-day ;  she  is  excessively 
fond  of  her  sister,  and  has  indeed  not  only  been  a  kind 
sister,  but  has  acted  the  part  of  a  tender  parent. 

Did  I  not  say  that  Lady  Margaret  was  not  grown  in 
proportion  with  her  sisters  ?  she  is  pale,  and  quiet  in  her 
manner  ;  she  is  a  sensible  little  girl,  but  not  of  a  strong 
constitution  I  believe.  Lord  Edward  is  a  sweet  pretty 
boy,  but  not  so  forward  at  his  book  as  his  brother  was  at 
his  age.  Lady  Mary  Cook's  match  was  made  by  my 
Lady  Grower.  I  am  sorry  Lord  North  has  had  the  gout, 
I  never  can  congratulate  anybody  upon  having  so  severe 
a  companion.     When  does  he  go  to  London  ? 

I  diid  not  tell  the  Duchess  of  your  drawer  for  shells 
till  I  received  your  commands  so  to  do.  She  says  she 
must  have  just  such  another  for  that  purpose  and  twenty 
others;  but  a  material  thing  is  wanting,  which  can 
neither  be  borrowed  nor  purchased — a  thing  we  seldom 
know  the  true  value  of  till  gone ;  and  every  hour  that 


Mrs.  Betty  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  527 

strikes  ought  to  put  us  in  mind  how  fleeting  it  is, 
though  it  is  that  which,  if  well  and  rightly  employed, 
will  make  us  happy  everlastingly ! 

When  you  send  to  Snitsfield  pray  present  my 
hxmible  service  to  Lady  A,  Coventry,  and  let  her 
know  that  I  have  not  been  unmindful  of  the  book 
of  shells  I  mentioned  to  her,  but  there  is  not  one  to 
be  had  at  this  time;  the  bookseller  I  had  mine  of 
says  he  expects  some  over  from  France  soon,  and  has 
promised  I  shall  have  the  first  that  comes,  which  I  will 
take  care  to  send  to  Lady  Anne  Coventry  by  the  first 
opportunity,  I  shall  send  you  some  oranges  for  orange 
wine  as  soon  as  they  are  good,  I  give  you  notice  now  that 
you  may  have  your  sugar  and  vessel  ready.  My  house  is 
in  St.  James  s  Place,  the  landlady's  name  lynch. 

I  think  the  fringe  of  the  valance  and  bases  should  be 
the  same  depth  as  that  on  the  bottom  of  the  curtains.  The 
great  Dr.  Shaw  arrived  here  this  day  in  excellent  spirits. 
The  strange  odd  creature  I  named  is  a  Java  hare.^  Let 
me  know  instantly  by  what  carrier  I  shall  send  down  the 
oranges.  There  is  great  bustling  in  London  about  the 
Westminster  election  :  if  Lord  Trentham^  should  carry 
it,  which  it  is  thought  he  will  not,  he  will  pay  dearly 
for  it  they  say. 

A  few  days  ago  the  Duke  of  C —  went  with  some 
ladies  in  his  coach  to  ^e  the  election,  and  the  mob  took 

them  for  foreigners,  called  them  French and  was 

going  to  pull  them  out  of  the  coach,  but  on  their  vowing 
they  were  English  they  let  them  alone. 

^  There  are  two  water-colour  drawings,  by  Mrs.  Delany,  of  the  Java  hare. 
*  Lord  Trentham  was  opposed  (or  Westminster,  in  December,  1749,  by  Sir 
George  Vandepat. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


528  LIFE  AND  CORESPONDENCE 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Vetoes. 

Bulstrode,  10  Dec,  1749. 

I  am  glad  you  have  seen  the  bride  folks,  and  that 
Mrs.  Mills  is  as  lively  as  Miss  Wheeler  was :  I  hope 
she  will  be  able  to  communicate  some  of  her  spirit  to 
her  husband,  and  he  some  of  his  gentleness  to  her,  and 
that  will  make  a  mutual  amendment ;  though  for  the 
course  of  this  world,  and  the  cares  she  may  have  to  go 
through,  her  stock  of  spirits  may  be  very  necessary !  I 
desire  you  will  make  her  easy  about  the  payment  of 
the  money;  when  it  is  quite  convenient  to  her  will  do 
or  me.  I  think  you  are  much  in  the  right  not  to  put 
the  glass  into  your  chariot  till  you  have  something 
better  to  see  than  dirty  roads. 

Last  Thursday  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  went  to 
Eton  to  meet  Lady  Audover ;  Babess  went  with  her  to 
lie  that  night  at  Windsor,  in  order  to  meet  Mrs.  Foley 
at  Slough  next  day ;  she  complained  a  good  deal  that 
morning,  and  had  had  no  sleep  for  some  nights.  The 
Duchess  came  back  to  dinner  without  Lady  Andover, 
she  was  in  hopes  of  bringing  her  home  with  her. 
Babess  said  she  would  come  to  us  yesterday,  and  the 
coach  was  setting  out  for  her,  when  her  servant  brought 
me  a  letter  with  an  accoimt  of  her  having  been  so  ill 
she  could  not  go  to  meet  her  sister  nor  return  to  Bul- 
strode, but  to-morrow  the  Duchess  and  I  propose  fetching 
her.  I  don't  wonder  she  should  be  ill ;  the  constant 
anxiety  she  is  in  about  her  sister  is  enough  to  wear  her 
away.  She  went  to  town  last  Monday  to  see  her,  and 
returned  on  Tuesday  ;  she  foimd  her  not  worse,  but  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  529 

the  least  better.  Next  Thursday  the  coach  goes  to  town 
to  fetch  Lord  Titchfield  home  for  the  holidays.  I 
design  going  up  in  it,  to  settle  all  particulars  about  my 
winter-quarters,  and  to  see  poor  Betty  Granville  and 
Mrs.  Foley,  who  is  come  safe  to  town,  and  her  children. 
Lady  Mary  Cook  is  so  ill,  that  it  is  thought  she  can't 
live ;  she  is  confined  to  a  very  dismal,  ill-furnished  room 
up  two  pair  of  stairs.  I  have  not  yet  met  one  man  who 
does  not  pity  her  and- detest  her  tyrant ;  I  should  have 
an  ill  opinion  of  the  humanity  of  that  man,  that  could 
justify  such  cruelty ;  if  she  dies,  she  has  been  as  much 
murdered  by  the  severe  usage  she  has  met  with,  as  if  she 
had  been  poisoned.  I  am  very  glad  you  have  got  Miss 
fline^  with  you ;  she  seems  to  be  ^  good  kind  of  young 
woman.  If  she  knows  how  the  crokand  sugar  used  to 
be  done  at  Mrs.  NorcliflTs,  I  wish  yOu  could  prevail 
on  her  to  teach  Sally  how  to  do  it.  You  have  been 
very  good  to  Sally  ;  I  am  sorry  she  should  have  added 
to  your  number  of  sick  folks,  for  you  have  been  suflS- 
ciently  tormented  with  sickness. 

I  think  of  your  kind  intention  towards  St.  James's 
Place  with  the  greatest  pleasure ;  if  it  can  be  conve- 
niently and  agreeably  accomplished  it  will  make  D.D. 
and  me  extremely  happy.  I  have  not  yet  finished  the 
lustre ;  your  mussels  have  been  of  great  use,  but  I  hope 
in  ten  days'  time  it  will  be  done  and  hung  up  in  its 
place;  it  promises  to  be  very  gay,  and  the  Duchess 
likes  it  extremely.    I  have  made  her  six  baskets  :  she 

^  "Miss  Hine"  must  have  been  what  in  these  days  would  be  called  "a 
governess,"  but  the  subsequent  allusion  to  her  knowledge  of  confectionary  in 
the  place  she  had  previously  been  in,  proves  that  a  practical  acquaintance  with 
different  branches  of  housekeeping  was  then  naturally  to  be  expected  in  a 
governess. 

VOL.  II.  2  M 


Digitized  by 


Google 


530  LIFE  AND  CORBESPONDBNOE 

likes  them  so  well  and  finds  them  so  convenient,  tiiat 
if  I  have  time  I  must  make  her  a  few  more.  The 
great  tmd  mighty  Shaw  has  been  very  entertaining  and 
comical ;  I  gave  him  your  message  abont  the  shells ; 
he  says  he  has  none,  or  they  shonld  be  mnch  at  your 
service.  I  was  afraid  last  night  I  had  forfeited  all  his 
grace  and  favour,  he  told  us  a  very  droll  story  of  his 
journey  to  Sir  Thomas  Littleton's,^  and  of  his  having  a 
most  ridiculous  toss  out  of  the  chaise ;  he  was  thrown 
head  foremost  upon  the  board  over  **  the  leathern  apron," 
as  he  called  it,  but  catching  fast  hold  of  one  of  the 
horse's  tails,  he  saved  himself  from  falling  farther; 
but  being  a  little  unwieldy,  it  was  some  time  before  he 
could  be  raised  fron^  the  place.  This  happened  just  as 
he  stopped  at  Sir  T.  Littleton's  door,  all  the  ladies  and 
gentlemen  ready  to  receive  him ;  a  jerk  in  the  stopping 
of  the  chaise  suddenly  caused  this  downfal.  His 
humorous  way  of  telling  this  accident,  and  the  idea 
that  struck  us  all  of  his  figure  in  such  a  posture,  you 
may  believe  raised  a  great  deal  of  mirth  amongst  us ; 
and  the  Duchess  insisted  upon  my  making  a  drawing  of 
it,  which  I  did.  She  was  so  much  diverted  with  it,  that 
she  would  show  it  Dr.  S.  I  was  against  it,  but  she 
earnestly  begged,  and  I  consented,  as  I  had  done  things 
of  that  kind  by  him  before,  and  he  always  took  it  with 
good  humour.  This  did  not  succeed  so  well,  and  he 
walked  oflF  gloomy,  which  really  vexed  me ;  but  Mr. 
Achard  told  him  the  concern  I  was  under,  and  that  the 
drawing  was  destroyed ;  he  then  would  not  confess  he 


^  Sir  Thoraaa  Lyttelton,  Bart,  M.P.  for  the  oounty  of  Woicester,  &&er  of 
Q«orge  Lord  Lyttelton.    He  died  September  14,  1751. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  531 

had  been  angry ;  said  that  it  was  absurd  to  suppose  he 
should  take  anything  ill  of  me,  and  when  we  met  at 
supper,  he  was  as  merry  and  good-humoured  as  ever : 
so  "  all's  well  that  ends  well." 

Lord  North  passed  by  yesterday,  and  sent  in  a 
message  with  an  excuse  for  not  calling,  but  he  was 
lame  and  obliged  to  go  on.  I  was  a  good  deal  shocked 
last  Thursday  with  an  account  that  Bennet  had  had  a  fit. 
It  was  certainly  an  apoplectic  fit — he  had  one  twenty 
years  ago ;  1  hope  it  will  give  him  a  serious  and  proper 
way  of  thinking.  He  was  the  person  who  made  the  dis- 
turbance at  the  Sun  at  Cheltenham ;  he  was  blooded,  is 
to  have  a  blister  and  other  medicines  by  way  of  precau- 
tion. 

A  Rehvs  Bent  me. 

What  in  every  tavern  yon  usually  see, 

In  what  the  wrecked  sailor  would  willingly  be, 

Or  the  stone  that  has  built  half  the  churches  in  town, 

Is  the  name  of  an  amiable  friend  of  your  own. 

Could  Mrs.  Viney  send  the  Duchess  a  root  or  two 
of  the  bee-flower?  The  polyanthus,  she  will  be  ex- 
tremely glad  of. 


Mn.  Dekmy  to  Mrs,  DeweSj 

Bulstrode,  17  Dec.  1749. 

On  Friday  I  went  to  town  in  the  Duke  of  Portland's 
coach,  that  went  to  fetch  Lord  Titchfield.  D.D.  and  I 
set  out  from  hence  at  nine,  got  to  my  brother's  at  half 
an  hour  after  twelve,  just  asked  him  how  he  did,  and  as 
we  were  to  meet  at  dinner  at  Cuz  Foley's  I  staid  but  a 
little  while  with  him.     Thence  to  Mrs.  Percival's,  saw 

2h2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


532  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Miss  Sutton  and  Mrs.  Percival,  but  no  Mrs,  Donnellan. 
By  this  time  it  was  two  o'clock ;  the  Dean  walked  away 
to  Paul's  Church- Yard  and  I  took  a  chair  to  do  business ; 
went  in  the  first  place  to  Mr.  Dufour's,  the  famous  man 
for  paper  ornaments  like  stucco,  bespoke  a  rose  for  the 
top  of  her  Grace  of  Portland's  dressing-room,  where  the 
shell  lustre  is  to  hang,  which  was  finished  last  Thursday, 
(had  been  just  twelve  days  in  hand,  this  by  way  of 
digression).  From  thence  went  to  settle  with  my  new 
landlady.  She  not  at  home ;  and  there  I  staid  near 
three  quarters  of  an  hour,  at  last  she  came,  and  very 
courteous  :  and  for  five  guineas  a  week  goes  out  of  the 
house  and  leaves  it  free. 

It  was  half  an  hour  after  3  before  I  got  to  Mrs. 
Foley's,  where  I  was  to  spruce  myself  up  a  little  before 
dinner.  Mrs.  Foley  looks  very  thin,  and  I  fear  B. 
Granville's  illness  affects  her  a  good  deal,  though  she  has 
better  si)irits  about  her  than  Lady  Abbess ;  Mrs.  Foley 
and  I  went  in  the  afternoon  to  drink  tea  with  her.  The 
physician  that  now  attends  her  has  had  her  blooded,  and 
blistered  on  the  arm  and  the  pit  of  her  stomach,  and  with 
,all  these  operations  she  has  not  lost  her  strength,  which 
gives  me  hopes  that  her  youth  will  at  last  get  the  better 
of  her  complaints.  I  called  for  a  quarter  of  an  hour 
on  Lady  Wallingford,  who  looks  wretchedly,  and  has 
been  in  a  great  deal  of  danger, 

D.D.  and  I  met  at  Whitehall  on  Friday  evening, 
before  9  ;  we  supped  on  sprats  and  very  luckily  met  the 
box  of  shells  Mrs.  F.  Old  sent  me  from  Coventry,  but 
it  does  not  make  me  amends  for  the  box  lost,  for  this 
contains  only  trumpery  sorts,  none  that  are  fit  for  any- 
thing but  common  grotto  work.     We  returned  to  Bui- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  533 

strode  on  Saturday  with  Lord  Titchfield  and  Dr.  Shaw, 
who  went  to  London  for  a  few  days  on  business. 
As  you  forgot  to  enclose  my  Pauline's  measure,  she 
cannot  possibly  have  her  coat  before  Xmas.  I  will 
observe  your  directions  about  the  materials ;  I  think  it 
time  enough  for  her  to  be  dressed  in  silk. 

The  Duchess  would  with  great  pleasure  make  you  a 
visit  were  it  in  her  power ;  but  she  hopes  to  have  the 
pleasure  of  seeing  you  in  town  this  winter,  and  sends  you 
many  kind  services  and  wishes,  a  volley  of  which  were 
let  oflF  as  I  just  now  came  from  the  tea-table  and  saying 
I  was  going  to  finish  a  letter  to  you. 


Mn,  Delany  to  Mrs.  D&wes. 

Bulatrode,  22  Dec.  1749. 

As  next  Monday,  my  usual  day  for  writing,  is  Xmas 
day,  I  will  not  put  off  answering  your  last  letter,  and 
the  Duchess  finds  so  much  employment,  that  I  have  little 
time  for  writing.  I  have  finished  the  lustre^ — I  believe  I 
told  you  so  before — and  it  has  been  a  ffreat  work.  I  have 
begun  a  pair  of  candlesticks,*  for  her,  but  fear  I  shall 
hardly  finish  them,  as  not  a  flower  is  yet  made.  I  had 
a  letter  from  Mr.  M.  in  answer  to  one  I  writ  to  him  at 
Welsbdum  about  Mr.  Clifton  :  he  delivered  my  letter  to 
Mr.  Frankland,  who  said  many  obliging  things  of  me, 


*  ^*  The  lustre  "  and  the  '*  candlesticks  "  were  made  of  shells.  Mrs.  Delany 
excelled  in  shell  work,  and  attained  to  such  perfection  in  it,  that  she  executed 
cornices  of  the  most  beautiful  designs,  which  were  formed  of  shells,  which  when 
painted  or  coloured  over  appeared  like  the  finest  carving,  but  for  smaller  objects 
like  the  htstre,  &c.,  they  Avere  left  in  their  natural  colours,  which,  arranged  by 
her  unerring  eye,  had  the  most  beautiful  effect,  and  united  the  brilliancy  of  the 
colours  of  enamel  with  the  inimitable  tracery  and  harmony  of  nature. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


534  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  how  much  he  valued  my  recommendation ;  that  he 
would  do  all  that  lay  in  his  power,  and  in  the  meantime 
begged  his  acceptance  of  a  twenty  pound  note ! — was  not 
that  pretty  ?  indeed  something  more,  for  it  was  great 
liberality.  I  watched  the  eclipse,  but  was  more  pleased 
at  the  thought  that  your  eyes  were  at  the  same  instant 
placed  on  the  same  object  than  with  the  eclipse ;  I  believe 
it  was  not  much  above  a  third  part  of  the  moon.  I  know 
nothing  more  about  Lord  Trentham  than  what  the  news- 
papers say.  Lord  Guernsey  will  not  be  married  very 
soon ;  I  have  not  heard  that  the  day  is  fixed. 

Lord  Titchfield  is  a  fine  boy,  and  learns  surprisingly 
quick,  but  I  do  not  think  him  quite  so  agreeable  in  his 
manner  as  his  two  eldest  sisters,  who  are  so  modest,  so 
civil,  and  so  good-humoured  that  you  would  be  charmed 
with  them.  The  Duchess  keeps  up  her  authority 
amongst  her  children  as  she  used  to  do,  and  they 
watch  every  motion  of  her  eye.  Yesterday  we  carri^ 
home  Miss  Granville ;  she  had  some  affairs  to  settle  be- 
fore she  went  to  London.  Betty  continues  in  the  same 
way,  has  still  the  pain  in  her  chest  and  no  voice.  Her 
sisters  are  much  to  be  pitied,  who  suffer  as  much  in  their 
mind  as  she  does  in  her  body. 

The  Duchess,  &c.  send  you  many  loves  and  ser- 
vices. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MK8.  DBLANY.  535 


CHAPTER  IX. 
January,  1750,  to  Dbcembkr,  1750. 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

St.  James's  Place,  16  Jan.  If  4d-50. 

A  long  letter  should  have  followed  my  short  dab 
to  my  dearest  sister,  if  time  and  opportunity  would 
have  given  me  leave.  But  you  know,  and  will  know 
I  hope  again,  that  the  first  coming  to  London  occa- 
sions much  hurry  and  interruption.  I  cannot  forgive 
Mrs.  J.  stuffing  into  your  chariot,  and  being  so  airy  as 
to  give  you  cold ;  I  beseech  you  not  to  be  so  complaisant, 
and  I  still  owe  her  a  grudge  for  some  precious  moments 
she  robbed  us  of.  Lord  Harrington  does  not  go,  at  last, 
to  Delville,  at  which  I  most  heartily  rejoice ;  the  Lord 
Chancellor  *  has  prevailed  with  him  to  go  to  his  country 
house  at  Merion.  The  day  after  I  came  to  town  I  dined 
at  Mrs.  Percivars,  which  was  last  Thursday  (on  which 
day  I  wrote  you  to  tell  you  we  n^ere  safely  lodged — 
Sally,  trunks,  and  all.)  I  spent  the  whole  day  in  Han- 
over Square,  called  on  the  Maid  of  Honour  in  the 


>  Robert  Jooelyn,  Esq.,  appointed  Lord  Chancellor  of  Ireland,  September  7, 
1739,  created  29th  November,  1743,  Baron  Newport,  and  6th  December,  1755, 
Viscount  Jocelyn ;  and  died  Oct.  25th,  1756.  His  son  was  created  Earl  of 
Boden. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


536  LIKE  AND  COBKESFOXDEXCE 

ing ;  she  is  indeed  in  a  melancholy  way.  On  Friday 
morning  I  had  mercers,  &c.,  and  all  that  train*  Don- 
nellan,  Fred.  Montaga,  and  Mra  Montago^  then  dined 
at  Whitehall ;  visited  Lady  Bell  Monck  in  the  after- 
noon^ and  finished  with  Mrs.  Foley,  who  is  as  well  as 
can  be,  but  does  not  go  out. 

Saturday  morning,  full  of  business,  dined  at  Foley^s ; 
my  brother  met  us,  who  is  very  well,  and  in  good  spirits. 
In  the  evening  went  to  Betty  Granville,  finished  at 
Dashes,  and  met  our  Duchess.  Sunday  went  to  early 
church  at  St.  James'  Chapel,  dined  at  Montagu^  made 
Lady  Wallingford  a  visit  by  the  way,  who  looks  wretch- 
edly, but  is  better  than  she  was.  The  evening  I  spent 
at  Donnellan's,  met  Mrs.  Southwell  and  the  Duchess. 
D.D.  was  to  have  been  of  our  party,  but  has  got  one  of 
his  troublesome  colds ;  he  would  make  me  go  yesterday 
to  the  play  with  tlie  Duchess.  In  the  morning  I  had  Mr. 
Carr  and  silks,  and  have  bought  a  rich  satin  for  a  sack, 
as  near  the  colour  of  the  ribbon  we  bought  together  as 
1  could  get  it,  and  a  purple  and  white  flowered  silk. 
Then  in  came  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester,  who  staid  an 
hour ;  after  him,  General  Dalzil ;'  then  Mr.  Montagu, 
Mr.  Achard,  Mr.  Hill,  and  Lord  North;  so  that  with 
difficulty  I  was  dressed  by  three  quarters  after  3  :  dined 
at  Whitehall,  and  as  I  said  before,  went  to  the  new 
play,  "  Edward  the  Blfick  Prince,"*  which  entertained  me 


1  A  (IcBcendant  of  tho  celebrated  royalist  general  Sir  James  Dalzell,  Dalziell, 
or  DalycU,  of  BinoSf  Bart.,  who  raised  the  Scotch  Greys,  and  never  shaved  his 
board  after  the  death  of  King  Charles  I.  His  beard-comb  is  preserved  as  an 
heir-loom;  it  is  twelve  inches  in  breadth,  and  has  teeth  six  inches  deep. 
There  were  several  military  officers  among  his  descendants,  probably  the  one 
above-named  was  James  Dalyell,  who  in  1763  was  killed  in  America. 

3  Edward  the  Black  Prince,  (never  before  acted,)  "  was  played  for  nine  nights. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  537 

very  well,  though  it  is  rather  a  dull  play ;  but  the  story, 
or  rather  incident,  is  so  interesting,  and  Garrick  acts  it 
with  so  much  spirit,  that  I  liked  it  very  well.  The  Duke 
of  Portland  is  here ;  Miss  Thornhill  just  coming.  D.D.'s 
cold  not  better,  I  stay  at  home  all  day.  In  the  afternoon 
comes  '  Donnellan,  Miss  Sutton,  and  the  Duchess  of 
Portland.  I  can  add  no  more.  My  brother  dines  with 
us ;  he  complains  a  little  but  he  looks  well,  and  makes 
me  happy,  and  when  my  dear  sister  comes  my  happiness 
will  be  complete. 


Mrs.  Delany  to  Mr$.  Dewes. 

6  Feb.  1749-50. 

Yesterday  I  went  to  Brompton  with  Miss  G.  Lodg- 
ings are  taken  there  for  the  Maid  of  Honour,  who  is  so 
much  worse  than  when  I  last  wrote  that  I  think  there  is 
no  manner  of  hope  of  her  recovery.^  They  call  it  a  con- 
sumption, but  it  is  of  a  singular  nature.  The  pain  on 
her  breast  is  constant  and  violent,  and  at  times  she  is  so 
oppressed  that  if  not  instantly  bled  they  say  she  would 
expire,  and  yet  it  is  not  an  asthma.  The  physicians  talk 
learnedly  about  her,  but,  in  truth,  though  they  all  give 
her  up  as  irrecoverable^  they  don't  well  know  what  her 
distemper  is.     Pray  God  give  them  all  consolation  ! 

Now  as  to  your  coming  to  town,  pray  come  as  soon  as 


commencing  January  6, 1750,  at  Drury  Lane."  Some  parta  were  said  to  l)e 
weU  written,  bat  on  the  whole  it  was  dull  and  declamatory ;  and  the  character 
of  ''  the  Black  Prince  too  uniform,  too  cold  and  tame  for  such  an  actor  as 
Garrick." 

1  Mrs.  B.  Granville,  the  Maid  of  Honour  seems  to  have  been  one  of  the  most 
marvellous  instances  of  vitality  in  spUe  of  human  art  that  ever  existed ;  she 
survived  till  17iK)  I     Forty  years  after  this  letter  I 


Digitized  by 


Google 


538  LIFE  AND  CX)RRE8P0ND£NCE 

you  can,  for  Lady  Ab.  has  no  intention  of  returning  to 
me  again.  I  should  have  been  very  glad  to  keep 
her  a  fortnight  longer,  but  if  Brompton  agrees  with 
Betty  they  will  stay  on  for  some  time ;  if  not^  and  an 
end  is  soon  put  to  her  sufferings,  her  sister  designs 
going  directly  to  Windsor.  D.D.  insists  on  your  coming 
the  latter  end  of  this  month  at  farthest^  for  oratorios 
begin  the  2nd  of  March,  and  I  challenge  you  to  go  with 
me ;  and  if  the  dear  child  is  well  and  you  can  get  Mrs. 
Peters,  I  hope  you  will  comply  with  his  request.  I  beg 
you  will  answer  this  as  soon  as  possible.  What  joy  it 
will  be  to  me  if  I  may  expect  to  see  you  within  this  fort- 
night I  shall  not  forget  the  1 1th  February/  I  pray  God 
many  returns,  and  that  you  and  the  dear  child  may  en- 
joy it,  attended  with  health  and  happiness  of  every 
kind! 

I  have  this  morning  had  a  visit  from  Mr.  Bayley,  who 
begs  his  humble  service  to  you.  He  has  expressed  so 
much  gratitude  to  you  and  our  dearest  departed  friend,* 
that  it  has  (though  a  satisfaction  to  meet  with  so  grateful 
a  mind)  raised  a  tender  recollection  that  is  rather  more 
than  my  spirits  can  at  this  time  well  bear ;  but  as  I  think 
it  wrong  to  indulge  what  may  prejudice  one's  health,  I 
intend  going  about  this  morning  to  see  fine  pictures  and 
dine  at  Whitehall,  where  I  shall  meet  the  Duchess  of 
Queensbury,  and  spend  the  evening  with  Foley. 

*  The  birthday  of  Mary  Dewes.  *  Their  mother,  Mrs.  GranTille. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  539 


Mt9,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

St.  James's  FlAoe,  20  Feb.  1749-50. 

I  bless  God  that  my  dear  little  girl  has  missed  her 
ague ;  I  suppose  you  will  repeat  the  bark  plasters  to 
Mary's  wrists  before  the  usual  time  of  the  ague's  return- 
ing, which  is  generally  in  eight  days,  and  till  that  is  over 
I  don't  expect  you  should  fix  vour  day  at  all ;  only  let  me 
know  within  a  week  of  the  time,  that  Miss  Granville  may 
remove  to  Lord  Weymouth's,  where  she  intends  going 
as  soon  as  you  are  determined  to  come :  she  would  go 
sooner,  but  I  will  not  suffer  her ;  but  to  make  her  stay 
easy,  T  have  assured  her  that  you  will  not  defer  coming 
one  day  on  her  account.  Indeed  I  believe  she  will  soon 
be  released  from  her  painful  and  miserable  attendance 
on  poor  B.  G.,  who  is  now  reduced  to  the  last  weak- 
ness ;  she  was  so  ill  last  Saturday,  the  pains  on  her 
breast  and  at  her  heart  so  strong,  that  from  7  in 
the  morning  till  two  at  noon  she  was  in  the  utmost 
danger ;  the  physician  that  constanly  attends  her.  Dr. 
Monsey*  was  in  the  house  with  her,  and  says  he 
thought  she  was  expiring  several  times — she  had 
several  fits  of  strong  convulsions.  Unfortunately  that 
was  the  day  fixed  upon  for  the  Xtning  of  my  god- 
daughter. Miss  Mary  Foley .^  The  hour  appointed  was 
12,  to  meet  at  Mrs.  Foley's ;  the  Duke  of  Portland  god- 
father, the  Dudiess,  proxy  for  Lady  Mansel,'  who  was 


1  Dr.  MoDsey,  physiGian  to  Lord  Godolphiti,  who  lived  at  Gogmagog  Hill, 
near  Cambridge. 

'  Mary,  second  daughter  of  Thomas  (afterwards  Baron)  Foley,  married 
Richard  Clerk,  Esq.,  of  Kingston,  county  Oxford,  and  died  in  December, 
1844. 

*  Sir  Wiliam  Mansel,  married  Amy,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Richard  Cox, 
Lord  Chancellor  of  Ireland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


540  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

very  ill.  At  11,  just  as  I  was  going  to  dress,  a  messenger 
came  from  Brompton  to  let  me  know  B,  Q-.  was  so  ex- 
tremely ill,  and  that  I  was  desired  to  go  there  imme- 
diately, the  Dean  gone  out,  and  I  knew  not  where  to 
find  him.  so  I  took  a  hackney-coach,  called  at  the  end 
of  Stratten  Street,  and  sent  to  consult  with  Mr.  Foley, 
who  intreated  me  to  come  to  the  Xtning  and  not  say 
anythihg  to  Mrs.  Foley  till  it  ivas  over.  I  then  went  on 
to  Brompton,  found  poor  Babess  in  a  miserable  way, 
Dr,  Taylor  and  Sir  Edward  Hulse  ^  sent  for.  I  told  her 
the  necessity  there  was  of  my  going  to  the  Xtning,  and 
that  I  would  return  again  as  soon  as  it  was  over.  I  got 
home  as  fast  as  I  could,  much  discomposed  as  you  may 
imagine,  and  not  at  all  in  a  condition  to  see  Mrs.  Foley ; 
so  I  sent  a  note  to  her,  to  say  I  had  been  detained  by 
business,  and  begged  the  gossips  would  meet  me  at  May 
Fair  Chapel,  where  the  child  was  to  be  Xtned,  and  then 
I  consTilted  with  the  Duchess  how  I  should  break  the 
sad  news  to  Mrs.  Foley — as  we  then  imagined  the  poor 
Maid  of  Honour  could  not  outlive  the  day.  It  was  agreed 
I  should  tell  her  that  she  had  taken  a  medicine  which 
had  ruffled  her  very  much,  which  was  in  fact  truSj  and 
that  Babess  begged  of  me  to  come ;  this  alarmed  her 
immediately,  and  she  intreated  me  to  return  to  her 
sister,  which  I  did,  and  found  things  rather  better.-  She 
(that  is  Betty)  grew  easy  towards  evening ;  I  then  left 
her  to  go  to  Mrs.  Foley. 


1  Sir  Edward  Holse^  Bart.,  eldest  son  of  Sir  Edward  Hulse,  M.D.,  first 
physician  to  his  Majesty  George  II. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  541 


Mrs,  Delanyto  Mrs,  Deioes. 

St.  James's  Place,  1  March,  1749-50. 

Indeed  my  dearest  sister's  motherly  tenderness  and 
patience  lias  been  tried,  and  my  own  disappointment 
is  also  your  disappointment. 

B.  G.  continues  in  the  same  languishing  state,  always 
in  pain,  but  gains  no  ground  as  to  strength ;  she  was 
blooded  two  days  ago,  and  they  talk  of  bleeding  her 
again  to-morrow.  I  expect  our  Duchess  to  drink  a 
tete-Jt-tete  tea  with  me,  and  then  we  go  together  to  the 
Duchess  of  Queensbury. 

To-morrow  oratorios  begin — Saul,  one  of  my  beloved 
pieces — I  shall  go.  -  The  new  play  written  by  Mr. 
Whitehead,*  Lord  Jersey's  tutor,  is  now  acting,  and  much 
applauded ;  it  is  too  tragical  for  me  :  it  is  called  The 
Roman  Father,  written  on  the  plan,  as  I  understand,  of 
Oomeille's  Horace.  Lord  Titchfield  is  pretty  well,  though 
still  confined  to  his  room. 

I  am  glad  you  have  got  Mrs.  Peters.  Poor  Mrs. 
Lambard  has  buried  her  son ;  she  is  ready  to  lie  in,  and 
I  hope  will  have  another,  as  it  will  be  of  consequence 
to  their  fortune.  My  brother  is  well,  and  so  is  Sir 
Anthony.  Mrs.  Southwell  is  recovered  of  a  very  bad 
fever.  The  present  talk  of  the  town  is  of  an  affair  be- 
tween Lord  Hervey  and  Lord  Cobham.  Lord  Hervey 
was  at  a  drum  of  Lady  Cobham's;  he  held  his  hat 
under  his  arm,  the  inside  upwards ;  Lord  Cobham  laid 


*  ^The  Roman  Father.  A  tragedy  by  W.  Whitehead.  Acted  at  Dniry  Lane 
1750.  Founded  on  the  combat  of  the  Horatii  and  Curiatii.  Mason  says 
"it  is  an  improvement  on  Comeille." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


542  LIFE  AND  00RBE8P0NDENCE 

a  wager  with  Mr*  Nugent  of  a  crown  that  he  would  spit 
in  Lord  Hervey  s  hat,  and  did^  asking  Lord  Hervey 
pardon  for  doing  it,  and  telling  him  the  reason,  upon 
which  with  the  utmost  composure,  Lord  Hervey  offered 
him  his  hat  to  win  as  many  crowns  as  he  pleased ;  but 
next  morning  sent  Lord  Cobham  a  challenge.* 

An  interval  of  two  months  here  occurs  in  the  correspondence, 
during  which  period  it  appears  by  the  following  letter,  Mrs.  Dewes 
was  with  her  sister  in  London,  till  within  two  days  of  Mrs.  Delanj's 
return  to  Ireland. 


ifrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

7  o'clock,  4th  May,  1750. 

I  thank  you,  my  most  dear  sister,  for  the  happiness  I 
enjoyed  yesterday,  and  am  most  thankful  for  the 
happy  hours  we  have  spent  together  this  year,  and  hope 
we  shall  have  a  cheerful  return  of  them.  Yesterday 
was  a  day  snatched  out  of  the  shade :  but  I  fear  the 
fatigue  was  rather  too  great  for  you,  and  your  exert- 
ing your  spirits  in  the  kind  manner  you  did,  hurt 
you. 


1  Horace  Walpole  gives  a  different  yersion  of  this  story,  yiz.,  that  Lord 
Gobbam  laid  a  bet  of  a  guinea  with  Mr.  Nugent,  that  he  would  oommit 
this  "absurd  brutality,"  and  that  "Lord  Hervey  would  not  resent  it>" 
Lord  Hervey  with  great  temper  and  sensibility  asked  **  if  he  had  any  farther 
occasion  for  his  hat  f  **  Oh,  I  see  you  are  angry."  **  Not  veiy  well  pleaaed." 
Lord  Cobham  took  the  fatal  hat    * 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  543 


Mr$,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Deives, 

Chester,  6  May,  1750.    ' 

I  had  a  very  good  night,  I  thank  Grod,  at  Newport. 
We  set  out  at  6  precisely,  drank  a  cup  of  warm  whey, 
and  breakfasted  at  a  place  called  Hemehill.  We  got 
to  Whitchurch  by  one,  dined  on  salmon,  mutton,  and 
chicken.  We  came  to  this  place  by  eight  and  drank  tea ; 
we  were  much  fatigued.  Most  of  our  way  was  drag- 
ging through  hot  sands;  otherwise  the  roads  were 
everywhere  veiy  good,  and  we  have  reason  to  be  very 
thankfiil,  not  having  met  with  any  bad  accident.  I 
am  very  well,  and  just  come  from  St.  Peter's  Church. 
I  have  hardly  any  remains  of  my  cold.  The  yatcht 
left  Holyhead  last  Thursday  with  Mr.  Fox  and 
Lady  Caroline  *  and  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellis.  *  The  weather 
is  so  fine  and  temperate  that,  in  all  probability,  it  will 
be  at  Park  Gate  to-night,  or  to-morrow  morning  early, 
so  that  we  may  go  off  with  the  evening  tide.  We  pro- 
pose leaving  this  for  Park  Gate  to-morrow  at  nine. 

If  we  are  delayed  a  day  or  two,  which  I  hope  we  shall 
not,  it  will  be  pleasanter  to  be  near  the  sea-side  and 
green  fields  than  penned  up  in  a  hot  dull  town.  I  won't 
seal  this  letter  till  to-morrow  morning  :  by  that  time  I 
may  have  some  account  to  add  of  the  yacht,  or  Dr. 
Barber,  who  is  expected  every  hour.     I  found  a  letter 


'  Henry  Pox,  Esq.,  Seoretaiy-of-State,  married,  in  1744,  Lady  Georgiana 
CSaroline  Lennox,  eldest  dau^ter  of  Charles,  2nd  Duke  of  Richmond.  In 
1763  he  was  created  Baron,  and  his  wife  Baroness  Holland  in  1762. 

*  The  Bight  Honourable  Welbore  Ellis,  afterwards .  created  (17d4)  Lord 
Mendip,  married  Elizabeth,  only  daughter  of  Sir  William  Stanhope. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


544  LIFE  AND  00RRB8P0NDBN0E 

from  him.  He  thinks  himself  extremely  obliged  to  you, 
for  the  honour  you  have  done  him  in  desiring  him  to  take 
Welsbourne  in  his  way.  He  had  not  seen  Dr.  Gierke 
when  he  wrote,  who  is  to  be  his  conductor,  and  could 
give  no  answer  but  that  if  it  depended  on  him  he 
should  most  gladly  wait  upon  you.  I  found  the  box 
of  shells  here,  much  shattered,  and  have  sent  it  to 
Whitehall. 

Mrs.  Gordon,  the  lady  that  entertained  us  here  last 
summer,  and  was  so  agreeable  as  we  walked  on  the  wails, 
has  drunk  tea  with  me,  and  is  sensible  and  entertaining. 
She  has  one  daughter,  now  at  the  Bath,  that  she  doats 
on  and  commends  in  a  pretty  modest  manner.  She  talked 
of  her  daughter  and  I  of  my  sister,  and  have  promised 
that  whenever  you  come  to  Chester  you  will  make  her 
a  visit.  We  breakfast  with  her  to-morrow  before  we 
go  to  Park  Gate. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Delville,  18  May,  1750. 

I  had  an  intention  of  writing  to  you  last  poet  but 
— impossible — shoals  of  impertinences  made  it  impracti- 
cable. A  yearns  absence  makes  it  so  necessary  to  have 
a  thorough  inspection  into  everything,  and  I  am 
settling  my  family  in  a  different  way  from  what  it  was 
formerly,  which  obliges  me  to  be  Mrs.  Notable,  and  to 
do  much  more  than  I  ever  did  in  my  life,  and  I  hope  it 
will  agree  with  me ;  and  own  that  the  bustle  of  it,  (which 
once  I  should  have  thought  better  executed  by  a  servant 
than  myself,)  has  been  of  service  to  me,  as  it  has  oocu- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  545 

pied  every  moment  and  left  me  the  less  leisure  to  think 
of  some  moments,  the  recollection  of  which  are  yet  too 
tender  to  dwell  upon.  Smith  takes  to  her  new  employ- 
ment very  cleverly,  and  when  once  I  have  fxed  her  in 
the  method  I  like,  I  shall  return  to  my  less  necessary, 
but  more  pleasing  employments  of  painting,  &c. 

I  must  take  up  the  journal  still,  and  then  you  will  be 
more  exactly  informed  of  all  I  do  than  by  any  other  way 
of  relating  it.  On  Tuesday  morning,  the  two  Mrs. 
Hamiltons,  Miss  Bushe,  and  Miss  Anne  Hamilton  came 
here — all  well,  and  made  many  enquiries.  We  dined 
at  home  that  day,  and  spent  most  of  it  in  looking 
over  our  house  and  gardens,  and  find  everything  very 
well ;  the  garden  in  excellent  order.  Wednesday,  we 
dined  with  my  Mrs.  Hamilton,  spent  the  day  there ; 
Thursday,  with  Mrs.  Forde ;  yesterday,  with  Mrs.  F. 
Hamilton ;  to-day,  with  Mrs.  Clayton,  and  I  have  had 
Lord  Grandison,  Mr.  Mason,  Mr.  Curry,  LordMoming- 
ton,  Mr.  Fortescue !  It  is  almost  two  and  I  not  dressed 
for  dinner,  and  you  are  to  pay  for  this  strange  dab,  for 
send  it  I  will,,  that  you  may  know  we  are  very  well, 
never  in  better  health. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Delville,22May,  1760. 

I  was  interrupted  in  my  last  journal  by  a  train 
of  visitors ;  had  time  to  dress  and  get  to  Mrs.  Clayton 
by  a  Uttle  past  three,  staid  with  her  till  near  seven, 
made  a  visit  or  two  in  my  way  home,  and  had  just  a 
moment's  daylight  to  run  into  my  garden  and  see  two 
fine  myrtles  set — the  one  given  me  by  Mrs.  Hamilton, 
the  other,  Miss  Bushe.     Sunday  went  to  church  twice  : 

VOL.  II.  2  N 


Digitized  by 


Google 


546  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

neighbour  visits  in  the  afternoon ;  at  7,  D.D.  and  I 
went  to  see  Mrs.  Barber.  Yesterday  morning  I  had 
my  Mrs.  Hamilton  from  nine  to  one  to  myself,  which 
was,  I  believe,  a  mutual  pleasure ;  then  came  in.  the 
Bishop  of  Derry,  Mrs.  Barnard,  and  their  son,  and 
then  Dr.  Stopford  and  his  lady ;  all  left  us  to  a  tete-a- 
tdte  dinner  at  3.  At  5,  Mrs.  Helsham  and  Mrs. 
Roberts  came;  went  away  soon  after  six.  I  settled 
my  sheDs  op  the  outside  of  my  cabinet ;  the  inside  will 
take  up  more  time  than  I  can  spare  at  present.  I  have 
found  my  house  in  pretty  good  order,  and  the  garden 
is  Paradisaiml.  Oh  that  my  dearest  sister  could  see  it 
with  as  much  ease  as  gmng  to  Stratford  or  Warwick  ! 
and  yet  with  such  a  passage  as  we  had  from  Park  Gfate 
to  DubUn,  the  voyage  is  not  so  formidable  an  affair  as 
it  appears  to  be ; — for  we  dined  at  Park  (Jate  on  Sunday 
at  one,  and  the  next  day  at  DelviUe  at  5 ! 

After  all  the  bother  and  rout  I  made  about  my  part- 
able  garden  it  is  lost ;  the  box  can  nowhere  be  found. 
I  gave  it  in  charge  myself  to  the  captain  of  the  ship 
that  brought  it  over,  (it  did  not  come  with  us,)  and 
he  knows  nothing  of  the  matter.  Our  fruits  and 
flowers  have  been  much  hurt  by  the  easterly  winds; 
it  is  now  so  cold  that  a  fire  is  comfortable,  though 
the  sky  is  clear  and  the  sun  bright,  and  my  pro^[)ects 
in  great  perfection;  Tiger  is  perfectly  well,  and  our 
little  robins  as  familiar  as  usual.  The  greatest 
damage  I  have  sustained  in  my  absence  is  my  shell 
lustres  falling  to  pieces,  and  most  of  my  crayon 
pictures  mildewed;  but  as  they  are  the  works  of  an 
author  of  no  very  great  value,  it  gives  me  no  very  great 
concern.     To-day   Mr.   Frankland   and   his  daughter 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY,  547 

dine  with  us;  to-morrow  we  call  at  eight  o'clock  on 
Mrs.  P.  Hamilton  and  Busjie  to  go  to  Bray,  ten  miles 
off,  to  see  Miss  Mary  Forth,  who  is  there  drinking 
goat's  whey,  and  next  month  goes  to  Bristol.  Mrs.  F. 
Hamilton,  to  my  great  satisfaction,  does  not  go  to 
England  with  her  son ;  she  is  terrified  with  the  Eton 
rebellion,^  and  other  prudent  reasons  joined  have  de- 
termined her  to  stay  here.  Mrs.  Clayton  and  the  Bishop, 
and  Miss  Brown,  went  yesterday  towards  Clogher,  and 
we  are  preparing  for  the  North  as  soon  as  we  can  pack 
up  what  will  be  necessary  for  us. 

On  consideration,  my  scheme  of  staying  at  DelviDe 
this  summer  will  not  do :  as  it  is  on  my  account  that 
D.D.  is  absent  a  whole  year  it  would  not  be  well  in 
me  to  let  him  go  to  the  North  without  me,  and  I  should 
not  be  easy  to  have  him  there  alone.  Next  Friday  we 
dine  at  Chapel-Izod,  a  house  belonging  to  the  Govern- 
ment, lent  to  the  Bishop  of  Derry — ^a  sweet  place,  about 
two  miles  beyond  Deny ;  and  Saturday  we  are  to  dine 
at  Lord  Grandison  s. 

I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  Donnellan ;  she  tells  me 
the  Maid  of  Honour  goes  out  every  day  in  a  coach,  seems 
in  good  spirits,  looks  wretchedly,  and  the  Duchess  has  a 
very  bad  opinion  of  her.  I  own  I  carmot  think  she  will 
recover,  but  may  linger  a  great  while ;  I  hope,  in  God, 
she  will  make  a  proper  use  of  the  time  given  her. 
D.D.  went  at  6  to  see  my  Lord  Chancellor  at  Merion, 
six  miles  off.  I  am  at  a  great  loss  for  franks  now.  I 
can  get  none  here,  and  if  I  enclose  it  to  Sir  C.  M.  he 
may  be  at  Cheltenham,  and  to  send  them  roundabout 
to  Bulstrode  is  tedious;  however,  this  letter  shall  go 
that  way.  I  have  got  the  harp-shell,  and  will  send  the 
prints  of  the  gems  by  the  first  opportunity. 

2n  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


548  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mm,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Deioes. 

Delville,  29  May,  1750. 

What  depends  on  the  weather  we  must  bear 
without  repining,  but  when  our  loss  arises  from  the 
negligence  of  messengers  we  may  justly  be  angry* 
How  little  do  those  stocks  of  posts  know  the  hearts 
they  torment  by  their  carelessness.  You  can  easily 
imagine  how  little  time  I  have  had  at  command  since 
my  coming  to  this  place.  D.D.  dined  in  Dublin  at  Lord 
Grandison's,  and  left  Bushe  and  me  to  a  t^te-k-tfete  in 
my '  closet.  I  got  a  cold  by  a  succession  of  com- 
pany last  Sunday,  who  drank  tea  in  my  garden ;  the 
last  company  was  the  Duchess  of  Manchester,  Lady 
Arabella  Denny ,^  Mrs.  Fitzmorris,  who  staid  till  very 
late,  and  the  wind  north-east.  I  was*  taken  ill  that 
night  with  a  pain  in  my  head  and  sore  throat,  and  was 
blooded  on  Monday,  took  physic  on  Tuesday,  repeat  the 
same  to-morrow,  and  shall  not  attempt  writing.  But 
my  good  and  agreeable  Letitia,  who  now  makes  me 
happy  in  her  company,  will  add  a  line  or  two,  to  let 
you  know  how  I  do. 

Tuesday,  5  o^clock. — I  am  so  well  fo-day,  my  most 
dear  sister,  that  I  could,  with  pleasure,  and  no  sort  of 
inconveniency,  write  you  a  long  letter,  but  my  kind 
nurses  will  not  allow  it ;  so  that  pleasure  I  must  post- 
pone till  next  post. 

Continued  by  Miss-Buihe. 

With  true  pleasure  I  can  assure  you,  your  amiable 
and  worthy  sister  is  pure  well,  and  as  cheerful  as  she 

*  Arabella,  second  daughter  of  Thomas  Earl  of  Kerry,  married  Arthur 
Denny,  Esq.,  of  Tralee. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  549 

can  ha  separated  from  so  dear  and  deserving  a  friend 
as  yourself.  The  talk  is  of  you  hourly,  an  indulgence 
to  herself,  and  great  pleasure  to  one  who  has  reason  to 
think  so  advantageously  of  you  as  I  do.  Dear  Mrs. 
Dewes,  do  think  of  seeing  Ireland  and  a  group  of  people 
ready  to  receive  you  cordially,  and  amongst  them 
some  whimsical  characters,  that^  when  the  day  lowers 
and  the  air  is  heavy,  will  help  to  cure  spleen.  Since 
I  began  this,  I  have  been  mostly  thinking  how  I  shall 
say  what  I  ought,  or  what  I  think  on  your  pretty  token 
of  remembrance ;  but  I  am  so  bungling  at  expressing, 
though  indeed  grateful  at  heart,  that  I  will  only  assure 
you  I  shall  always  keep  and  value  it  as  you  should  wish 
a  person  to  do,  who  is,  with  truth  and  great  esteem, 
Dear  madam, 

Your  most  obliged  and  faithful  servant, 

L.  BUSHE. 

P.  S.  I  beg  you  may  constantly  think  that,  to  the 
best  of  my  capacity,  Mrs.  Delany  shall  be  nursed  and 
entertained ;  all  indeed  she  has  now,  thank  Gk)d,  any 
occasion  for. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detoes. 

Delville,  2  June,  1750. 

I  hope  my  letter  by  the  last  packet  gave  my  dearest 
sister  no  uneasiness  but  what  must  naturally  attend  on 
account  of  a  friend's  having  been  ill,  and  not  raised 
any  fears  of  my  being  still  out  of  order,  for  I  assure 
you  the  information  I  sent  was  strict  truth,  and  I  am 


Digitized  by 


Google 


550  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

now,  I  thank  God,  as  well  as  ever  I  was  in  my  life.  I 
have  taken  Salt  Polyckest  and  Cheltenham  waters. 
D.D.  whose  apprehensions  are  in  proportion  to  his 
tenderness,  sent  for  Dr.  Quin.  Monday  is  my  busi- 
ness day.  I  have  read  over  your  letters  since  my  con- 
finement, (which  was  but  from  Monday  to  Friday),  and 
they  have  been  my  castor ^  pearl  cordial^  and  sal  volatile. 
How  kindly  did  you  remember  the  14th  of  May.* 
I  enjoy  too  many  blessings  not  to  be  very  thankful  for 
the  return  of  that  day ;  with  earnest  prayers  that  I  may 
be  worthy  of  the  attention  and  love  of  so  many  valuable 
and  dear  friends.  Your  not  receiving  my  second  letter 
from  Park  Gate  was  very  vexatious ;  because  that  could 
have  saved  you  some  pain*  I  gave  you  an  account  in 
that  of  a  letter  I  had  written  to  Mr.  Richardson  *  of  the 
books  D.D.  ordered  him  to  send  you,  and  desired  you 
would  let  him  know  where  Eagles,  the  Keinton  carrier, 
puts  up  in  London.  As  you  read  Clarissa,  when  you 
object  to  any  particular  expressions  let  me  know  the  pa^e 
and  the  line.  I  am  very  glad  you  have  taken  your  build- 
ing in  hand,  and  enlarged  your  scale  so  as  to  give  you  all 
the  conveniences  you  want ;  and  I  think  you  are  in  the 
right  not  to  put  up  the  bed  till  you  have  done  your  build- 
ing. I  am  sorry  the  church  service  is  not  settled  to  your 
mind.     I  think  Sir  C.  M.  has  been  unreasonable.  I  have 


*  Mrs.  Delany's  birthday, 

'  Samuel  Richardson,  the  son  of  a  Derbyshire  farmer,  was  bom  in  1689. 
He  was  brought  up  as  a  printer,  and  carried  on  that  business  for  many  years  in 
Salisbury  Court,  Fleet  Street.  In  1740  he  published  his  "  Pamela,"  in  1749 
his  "  Clarissa,"  and  in  1763  his  Sir  Charles  Grandison.  In  1760,  he  bought 
'*  a  moiety  of  the  patent  of  law-printer/'  He  had  a  country  house  at  first  at 
Northend  and  afterwards  at  Parson's  Green,  where  he  exercised  great  hospi- 
tality.   He  died  July  4,  1761. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  551 

had  all  my  acquaintance  at  my  door,  but  D.D.  would  not 
let  me  see  anybody  till  yesterday,  that  Lady  Grandison, 
and  Lady  Meade^  came  in  the  afternoon.  To-day  the 
Veseys  dine  here.  I  am  in  debt  to  the  Duchess  of 
Portland  and  Mrs.  Donnellan.  I  don't  know  where  to 
direct  to  my  brother,  but  at  a  venture  shall  send  my 
letter  to  Park  Street,  till  he  informs  me  where  to  find 
him. 


Mrs,  DeUmy  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  8  June,  1750. 

My  dearest  Sister, 

Covered  with  dust  and  wearied  with  the  toils  of 
cleaning  and  new  arranging  my  cabinet  of  shells,  throw- 
ing out  rubbish,  adding  my  new  acquisitions,  all  which 
has  been  the  work  of  yesterday  and  this  morning  to 
the  present  hour  of  one — (and  which  could  not  have 
been  accomphshed  without  the  good  assistance  of  my 
Mrs,  Hamilton  and  Bushe,  who  have  toiled  hke  horses) 
— to  refresh  my  body  and  mind  I  am  retired  to  write  to 
the  sister  of  my  heart,  to  thank  her  for  her  last  charming 
letter,  and  to  assure  her  that  I  continue  in  as  good 
health  as  her  own  heart  can  wish  me. 

We  have  not  yet  fixed  our  time  for  the  northern  jour- 
ney, nor  can  we,  having  everything  to  provide  of 
furniture  for  the  house  we  go  to.  Sometimes  in  the 
midst  of  my  enjoyment  of  the  garden  it  makes  me  sigh 
to  think  that  my  fruits  and  flowers,  which  I  with  care 


^  GatheriDe,  widow  of  Sir  Kichard  Meade,  Bart.,  and  daughter  of  Henry 
Prittie,  Esq.,  married  secondly,  Henry  Cavendish,  Esq.,  who  was  created  a 
Baronet,  in  1756,  and  was  the  ancestor  of  Lord  Waterpark. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


552  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

and  pains  have  planted,  will  be  gathered  by  others. 
Not  that  I  am  such  a  churl  as  to  grvdge  my  friends, 
or  even  my  acquaintance,  the  produce  of  my  garden, 
but  I  wish  only  to  have  the  pleasure  of  bestowing  them 
myself  and  of  having  some  share  of  them:  then,  on 
the  other  hand,  when  I  consider  how  much  good  D.D/8 
presence  must  do  in  the  North — and  I  hope  /  viay  in 
a  small  degree  do  some — I  think  of  my  journey  cheer- 
fully, and  set  about  preparing  for  it  rnrntfully  I  Thai 
expression  does  not  suit  the  occasion,  for  if  the  men  were 
to  go  through  all  domestic  bustle  as  we  are  obliged  to 
do  when  we  acquit  ourselves  properly,  they  would 
think  themselves  somewhat  obliged  by  the  trouble  we 
save  them! 

This  day  se*night  we  dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Berry's, 
Chapel-Izod  ;  Mr.  Franklin  and  his  daughter  dined 
there,  and  Sign'  Pasquali,^  who  plays  very  neatly  and 
with  a  good  taste  on  the  fiddle.  Sunday  we  always 
pass  at  home.  Monday,  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton  passed  the 
day  with  me.  Tuesday,  we  went  (D.D.,  B.,  and  I)  to 
liucan  to  breakfast ;  D.D.  went  to  Leixlip,  two  miles 
further,  to  see  the  Primate,  and  Mrs  Vesey  carried 
Bushe  and  I  to  Carrtown  to  see  Lady  Kildare  and  Lady 
C.  Fox  ;  nobody  at  home  but  the  Dowager ;  dined  with 
the  Yeseys.  Wednesday,  I  travelled  all  over  Dublin 
shopping,  bespeaking  paper  for  hangings,  linen  for  beds, 
and  a  thousand  things  too  tedious  to  be  here  inserted. 
Thursday,  D.D.  went  to  Dublin  by  7,  and  attended  the 

^  Fasqualiy  (Nicolo,)  an  Italian  violin-player  and  composer,  was  first  known 
about  the  year  1743,  in  London,  where  he  then  resided.  He  afterwards 
settled  at  Edinburgh,  and  continued  there  as  a  teacher  to  the  period  of  his 
death,  which  took  place  in  1757.  He  published  several  musical  works, 
overtures,  &o* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  553 

college  examinations  for  fellowships;  sent  a  how  dee 
to  Mra  Fortescae,  just  brought  to  bed  of  another  son, 
and  to  Miss  Wesley  who  is  to  be  married  as  soon  as  her 
sister's  month  is  up.  Yisited  Mrs.  Smith  of  the  North, 
Mrs.  Helsham,  Mrs.  Burghs,  Lady  Meade,  and  Lady 
Blessington,^  four  of  the  five  at  home.  This  morning 
before  nine  came  Mrs.  F.  Ham.  Mrs.  Forth,  Miss  Anne 
Hamilton,  and  the  two  young  Hamiltons;  we  have 
breakfasted  and  walked  all  over  the  garden,  and  I  have 
stole  away  to  finish  my  letter,  with  a  promise  (this 
being  a  jubilee  day)  of  playing  to  them  on  the  harpsi- 
chord as  soon  as  I  have  done.  To-morrow,  Dr.  Mathews 
and  his  family  and  Mrs.  Marlay  dine  here;  Tuesday, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Ellis  and  Mrs.  Agar ;"  Wednesday,  Capt. 
Forde  and  his  lady,  Mr.  Ejiap  and  his  lady ;  Thursday, 
we  dine  three  miles  off,  at  Mr.  Cavendish's  and  Lady 
Meade's,  with  whom  Mr.  Mount  lives.  All  you  have 
heard  of  the  Miss  Gunnings  is  true^  except  their  having 
a  fortune,  but  I  am  afraid  they  have  a  greater  want 
than  that,  which  is  discretion  I 


Mrs.  DeUmy  to  Mn,  Dewes, 

DelviUe,  16  June,  1760. 

I  cannot  yet  settle  to  any  of  my  favourite  employ- 
ments ;  all  the  time  I  can  spare  from  necessary  affairs 
is  taken  up  at  home   or    abroad.     Last  Sunday   Dr. 

I  Anne  Boyle,  younger  daughter  and  eventually  heiress  of  Murrough  Vis- 
count Blesington,  married,  23rd  November,  1696,  William  Stewart,  second 
Viscount  Mountjoy.    Their  son  was  created  Earl  of  Blesington  in  1745. 

»  Henry  Agar,  Esq.,  of  Gowram  Castle,  married,  May  29, 1733,  Anne,  only 
daughter  of  the  Bishop  of  Meath.  Their  eldest  son  was  created  Viscount 
Clifden,  and  the  third  son,  Charles  Agar,  was  Archbishop  of  Dublin,  and 
created  Earl  of  Normanton  in  1806. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


554  LIFE  AND  COERBSPONDENOE 

Mathews  and  his  two  nieces  dined  here,  and  Mrs. 
Marley .  Between  church  and  dinner  I  had  a  visit  from 
the  Dowager  Lady  Blessington  and  her  two  nieces,  Miss 
Dugans.  A.fter  dinner  came  Lady  Meade,  (Sir  Bichard 
Meade's  widow)  and  her  daughter.  Monday  I  was  very 
busy  all  day  preparing  and  ordering  blankets,  &c.,  for 
the  North.  Tuesday,  Mr.  Ellis  and  his  lady  and  sister 
dined  here ;  he  is  one  of  the  Lords  of  the  ^dnoiralty,  and 
married,  against  consent  of  her  friends.  Miss  Stanhope, 
daughter  to  Sir  William  Stanhope — ^a  vast  fortune: 
she  is  very  plain,  quiet,  and  rather  dull  in  company. 
He  has  a  good  estate,  and  is  a  pretty  sort  of  man  :  I 
think  her  friends  were  unreasonable  in  their  resentment ; 
but  I  beUeve  she  deceived  her  father,  and  promised  him 
she  would  not  have  him  at  a  time  she  was  absolutely 
engaged. '  She  was  left  young  without  a  mother,  and 
I  fear,  had  not  an  example  from  her  father  that  would 
instil  or  fix  right  principles  in  her  mind, 

D.D.  was  much  delighted  with  Bunny's  attention  to 
what  he  reads,  and  bid  me  call  upon  him,  when  I  wrote 
an  answer,  that  he  might  explain  the  text  for  him ;  which 
I  shall  do  presently,  but  cannot  answer  for  his  comply- 
ing this  day  with  the  summons ;  he  is  this  moment  up 
to  his  chin  in  haymaking  in  the  lawn  under  my  closet- 
window,  and  the  whole  house  is  fragrant  with  the  smell 
of  it. 

Thursday  we  dined  at  Pickerstown,  about  four  miles 
off,  Mr.  Cavendish's  and  Lady  Meade ;  it  is  with  them 
Mr.  M.  is  fixed  to  take  care  of  Sir  John  Meade,  a  fine 
spoiled  boy  of  six  years  old ;  Mr.  M.  looks  wretchedly, 
and  is  fallen  away  to  a  shadow ;  I  fear  he  will  never 
recover  his  constitution.  He  is  now  in  a  very  easy 
situation,  and  much  esteemed.     He  says  though  Sir  R. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  555 

Meade  has  been  extremely  indulged  and  little  contra- 
dicted, that  he  is  naturally  good-natured  and  tractable ; 
and  Lady  Meade  is  so  wise  as  to  give  him  full  authority 
over  the  child :  we  were  17  or  18  in  company,  and  had 
a  vast  dinner^  and  such  a  vast  turbot  as  I  never  saw 
for  size.  Yesterday  we  dined  at  Lord  Chief  Justice 
Singleton's,*  af  Drumcondra,  a  mile  off.  Our  company 
were  his  brother  and  sister  Fowkes  (who  keeps  his 
house,  for  he  is  a  bachelor)  and  their  son  and  daughter, 
Mr.  and  Mrs.  Foster,  and  the  grand  connoisseur^  Mr. 
Bristowe.  After  tea  and  coffee  I  walked  out  with  the 
gentlemen ;  the  ladies  not  able  to  be  of  our  party. 

Lord  Chief  Justice  is  very  busy  adding  to  his  house 
and  altering  his  gardens ;  Mr.  Bristowe  has  the  entire 
direction  of  all,  but  I  cannot  say  he  has  shown  so  much  real 
judgment  as  conceit  in  what  he  has  done.  In  one  part  of 
the  garden  there  is  a  cold  bath  that  opens  with  an  arch 
Kke  a  cave,  this  is  put  under  my  care  to  adorn  and  make 
something  of,  and  I  have  presumed  to  undertake  it. 
When  finished  I'll  send  you  a  little  sketch  of  itc  I 
have  got  your  harp  shelly  and  will  send  it  you,  and  the 
Elizabeth  edging,  the  first  opportunity.  I  am  sorry  you 
have  not  been  able  to  see  Lady  Anne  C. ;  I  am  out  of 
countenance  when  I  think  of  the  letter  she  favoured  me 
with ;  but  my  being  ill,  and  the  violent  hurry  on  first 
coming  home,  delayed  it  so  long,  that  now  I  think  it 
would  only  be  impertinent  to  write ;  I  know  you  will 
do  me  justice,  and  assure  her  of  my  great  esteem  and 
good  wishes,  in  which  D.D.  joins.  I  am  surprized  at 
the  many  excuses  made   about   Sally  Chapone's  not 


'  Henry  Singleton,  Prime  Serjeant,  made  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common 
Pleas  in  Ireland,  1740 ;  resigned  in  1753,  and  made  Master  of  the  Rolls. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


556  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

coming  to  you;  their  Cheltenham  schemes  are  past  my 
comprehension,  one  month's  conversation  with  you  would 
be  of  more  use  to  her  than  all  she  can  meet  with  tliere 
in  twelve  I  Dr.  Barber  is  at  Cheltenham  now  with  the 
Chapons.  I  hope  this  letter  will  go  free,  as  in  duty 
bound.  Mr.  Ellis  has  given  me  franks  for  the  time  he 
stays  in  Ireland.  I  have  not  had  time  to  write  to  Mr. 
Eichardson ;  when  I  am  in  the  North  I  may  have  time. 
Mrs.  Mary  Forth  sails  for  England  to-morrow ;  she  is 
going  directly  to  Bristol  for  her  health. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  JB.  OranviBe^  Esq^ 

Delville,  17  June,  1760. 

I  hope  this  letter  will  find  you  enjoying  Calwich. — 
Happy  should  I  have  been  to  have  had  you  here; 
at  this  moment  D.D.  is  very  busy  making  hay, 

I  am  glad  the  Foundling  Hospital  was  so  full,  and 
carried  on  with  such  decency ;  I  am  sure  it  pleased 
our  friend  Handel,  and  I  love  to  have  him  pleased.*  I 
am  sorry  Lord  W.'  did  not  see  Lady  Abbess  ;*  I  fear 
it  mort^ed  her,  for  she  really  loves  him,  and  any 
appearance  of  slight  or  indifference  towards  her  I  know 
will  hurt  her. 

We  have  not  yet  fixed  our  time  for  the  North ;  I  be- 
lieve it  will  be  about  a  fortnight  hence — it  i:^nnot  be 


*  On  Tuesday  the  1st,  and  on  Tuesday  the  15th  of  May,  1750,  the  oratorio 
of  the  Messiah  was  performed,  under  Handel's  own  direction,  at  the  Foundling 
Hospital,  for  the  henefit  of  the  Institution.  On  these,  and  on  subsequent  oc- 
casions he  played  upon  the  fine  organ  which  he  had  presented  to  the  chapel  of 
the  hospital. 

'  Lord  Weymouth. 

•  The  Honourable  Anne  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  557 

sooner;  I  have  been  very  busy  in  cleaning  my  new 
shells,  and  arranging  them  in  my  cabinet,  and  adding 
those  I  brought  with  me, — and  now  they  make  a  dazzling 
show.  I  have  got  a  good  cargo  of  grotto  shells  for 
you,  and  will  send  them  to  Chester ;  let  me  know  how 
they  shall  be  sent  from  thence  to  Calwich.  I  spent  a  very 
agreeable  day  at  Lucan  with  the  Veseys ;  they  are  im- 
proving it  greatly — it  is  really  a  very  sweet  agreeable 
place  and  well-planted.  Did  I  write  you  word  of  my 
disappointment  about  my  traveUing^arden?  Not  a 
plant  saved,  all  jumbled  to  pieces ;  so  I  shall  no  more 
attempt  such  difficulties,  but  must  content  myself  with 
what  I  can  raise  from  seed. 

Yesterday  we  dined  at  Pickerstown,  at  Mr.  Caven- 
dish's, who  married  Sir  Eichard  Meade's  widow.  It 
is  a  flat,  but  pretty  enough ;  to-day  we  dine  at  Lord 
Chief  Justice  Singleton's  at  Drumoondra.  He  has 
given  Mr.  Bristowe  fuU  dominion  over  house  and 
gardens,  and  like  a  conceited  connoisseur  he  is  doing 
strange  things^  building  an  absurd  room,  turning  fine 
wild  evergreens  oia  of  the  garden^  cutting  dovm  fall 
grown  elms  and  planting  twigs  I  D.D.  has  no  patience 
with  him,  and  I  shall  be  under  some  difficulty  to-day 
to  know  how  to  commend  anything^  which  is  what  I 
wish  to  do.  I  am  called  upon  to  dress.  I  have  the 
pleasure  of  Miss  Bushe's  company  with  me  at  preesnt ; 
but  we  part  when  I  go  to  the  North.  D.D.  best  wishes 
and  humble  services  attend  you,  and  we  both  beg  our 
compliments  to  your  neighbours. 
I  am,  my  dear  brother, 

Your  most  affectionate  and  most 

Humble  servant,  M.  Delany. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


558  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

DelviUe,  22  June,  1750. 

My  garden  is  at  present  in  the  high  glow  of 
beauty,  my  cherries  ripening,  roses,  jessamine,  and 
pinks  in  full  bloom,  and  the  hay  partly  spread  and 
partly  in  cocks,  complete  the  rural  scene.  We  have 
discovered  a  new  breakfasting  place  under  the  shade  of 
nut-trees,  impenetrable  to  the  sun's  rays,  in  the  midst 
of  a  grove  of  elms,  where  we  shall  breakfast  this  morn- 
ing ;  I  have  ordered  cherries,  strawberries,  and  nose- 
gays to  be  laid  on  our  breakfast-table,  and  have 
appointed  a  harper  to  be  here  to  play  to  us  during  our 
repast,  who  is  to  be  hid  among  the  trees.  Mrs.  Ha- 
niilton  is  to  breakfast  with  us,  and  is  to  be  cunningly 
led  to  this  place  and  mrpriaed.  I  think  Mrs.  DeweBflatters 
me  extremely  in  saying  Pauline  is  like  me ;  I  hope  she 
will  be  better  every  way.  As  to  the  lustre  there  is  no 
way  of  repairing  it,  but  the  crayon  pictures  /  have 
recovered.  I  don't  pity  you  at  all  with  your  present 
companions — ^bricklayers  and  carpenters,  &c.  ,•  I  think 
them  a  pretty  amusement,  and  will  provide  you  with 
much  future  comfort  and  convenience.  I  delivered 
your  mesdage  to  Mrs.  Forth,  and  were  the  season  of 
Bristol  not  so  far  advanced  she  ^ould  accept  of  your 
agreeable  invitation,  but  she  is  obliged  to  make  all  the 
haste  she  can  to  drink  the  waters;  I  most  heartily 
wish  they  may  be  of  service  to  her, — she  is  a  valuable 
woman,  and  a  true  Xtian.  I  am  glad  you  have  seen 
Lady  Anne  Coventry ;  I  wish  she  and  Sproser  could 
change  situations ;  the  15  guinea  shell  was  the  tender- 
shell'd  nautilus;    Lady   Anne   has   one  of  the   kind. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  559 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  departure  of  the  nurse,  and 
that  she  gave  the  little  girl  so  little  uneasiness ;  and  I 
hope  Juliana  will  prove  a  proper  and  useful  servant. 
I  am  glad  you  have  heard  from  dear  Lady  Sarah  Cowper ; 
Mrs.  Hamilton  disappointed  us,  and  did  not  come  till 
twelve ;  we  breakfasted  in  our  new  grove  at  our  usual 
time,  for  she  knows  our  hours,  and  we  are  under  agree- 
ment not  to  loait.  No  ceremony  subsists  between  us ; 
it  is  laid  aside,  though  ceremony  is  proper  to  keep 
those  at  a  distance  that  otherwise  might  be  trouble- 
some. 

Last  Sunday  I  had  a  good  deal  of  company  :  Monday, 
dined  in  my  garden — the  Vesey  family  with  us.  In 
the  afternoon  drank  tea  in  my  orangerie ;  company  after 
company  till  9  at  night.  Tuesday,  dined  at  Lady 
Grandison's;  Wednesday,  with  Doct'  Clements,  an 
agreeable  Fellow  of  the  College.  Our  party :  Lady  Eoss,^ 
Mrs.  Hamilton,  Mrs.  Montgomery  (supposed  to  be  his 
wife,  but  not  owned),  a  modest,  sensible,  well-bred 
woman ;  we  made  it  a  very  pleasant  day,  saw  all  the 
varieties,  walked  in  the  garden  and  park  belonging  to 
the  cottage,  came  home  at  9 ;  Thursday,  dined  at  Mr. 
Franklin's ;  Friday,  spent  the  whole  day  without  any 
interruption  at  home — worked,walked,  talked  till  dinner, 
and  sat  quiet,  listening  to  the  harper,  till  6;  then 
picked  roses — three  baskets  full.  At  7,  drank  tea  in 
the  orangerie;  then  walked  all  over  our  meadows,  fed 
our  deer,  saw  two  beautiful  fawns  and  the  two  young 
favourite  coach-horses  eat  their  oats  in  the  field ;  stood 


1  Lady  Elizabeth  Kerr,  third  daughter  of  William,  2nd  Marquis  of  LothLin, 
married  George  Roes,  13th  Lord  Ross. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


560  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

by  whilst  the  cows  were  milking,  till  it  grew  so  late 
that  we  thought  it  prudent  to  come  home,  and  I 
hastened  to  my  closet  to  finish  this  letter,  because  to- 
morrow we  spend  at  Lucan,  and  are  to  call  Mrs.  Hamil- 
ton at  8,  who  goes  with  us,  and  I  shall  not  have  a 
moment  of  the  day  to  myself.  Thus  having  given  you, 
my  dearest  sister,  an  account  of  what  I  have  done  and 
what  I  am  to  do,  I  retire,  wishing  you  a  good  night : 
the  ingenious  Letitia  is  much  your  humble  servant  and 
sincere  well-wisher. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detves, 

DelviU#»,  30  June,  1750. 

•Your  letter,  my  dearest  sister,  dated  the  14th  and  16th, 
gave  me  infinite  pleasure  and  entertainment ;  I  believe 
by  the  account  Dr.  Barber  has  sent  to  his  wife  of  Harry 
Chapon,  that  he  is  in  eflFect  agent  victualler,  for  he  says 
"  his  place  is  now  five  hundred  pounds  a  year."  I  am  the 
more  pleased  with  this  news  as  I  think  my  recommend- 
ing him  by  word  of  mouth  to  my  Lord  Ck)wer  has  been 
of  service  to  him.  I  hope  Jack  will  find  Jamaica  as 
profitable  as  Hal  has  done  ;  and  that  they  will  be  enabled 
to  make  the  latter  days  of  their  parents  comfortable,  and 
provide  well  for  their  sisters,  who  otherwise  I  think 
have  a  melancholy  prospect,  for  all  young  women  bred  to 
idleness,  and  with  a  relish  to  the  gaieties  of  the  world, 
are  much  to  be  lamented.  I  have  not  heard  from  Mrs. 
Chapon  since  I  wrote  to  her  by  Dr.  Barber. 

I  am  obliged  to  you  for  your  particular  account  of  the 
church  aflFair,  and  hope  it  will  end  amicably  and  to  Mr. 
Dewes's  satisfaction ;   Whyte  is  a  troublesome  neigh- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  561 

bour  and  even  where  he  means  right,  he  has  so  in- 
judicious and  snarling  a  manner  of  proceeding  that  he 
must  give  offence  on  all  sides.  How  does  poor  Mrs. 
Whyte  ?  I  think  the  Sproser's  way  of  acting  with  Mr. 
A.  very  odd,  and  do  not  understand  it.  You  had 
better  have  told  me  who  called  Clarissa  ^^fool^^  for  I 
have  laid  it  to  the  charge  of  several,  by  turns,  and 
only  one  is  guilty !  I  hope  it  was  not  Mrs.  Dobson. 
To  call  Clarissa  fool^  argues  a  weak  judgment  in  the 
criiiciseT. 

I  shall  send  you  some  rags  and  your  shells  and  gloves 
as  soon  as  I  have  an  opportunity,  but  the  person  I  de- 
pended upon  (Dr.  Pococke  ^)  went  away  on  a  sudden, 
and  your  gloves  are  not  yet  made.  I  think  the  mosaick 
pattern  with  cloth  work  round,  will  be  prettier  than 
the  flower  pattern  for  your  window-curtains.  Have 
you  put  up  your  shell-work  over  the  chimney,  and 
painted  it  ?  and  how  does  it  look  ?  1  am  afraid  I  shall 
not  be  able  to  get  any  more  thread  of  the  sort  you  used 
to  have,  but  when  I  go  to  the  North  I  will  try.  I  don't 
know  what  to  do  about  the  pattern  for  Miss  Mordaunt ; 
I  am  ashamed  not  to  have  done  it,  it  sounds  so  like  a 
trifle,  but  /  really  have  not  time  to  do  many  things  that 
are  more  necessary  to  be  done:  I  will  enclose  you 
Mrs.  Hamilton's  fine  pattern,  and  desire  when  they  have 
done  with  it  to  return  it.  I  suppose  when  you  turn 
your  kitchen  into  a  parlour,  you  will  fit  the  wainscot  of 

>  Richard  Pococke,  a  learned  prelate  and  traveller,  was  bom  at  Southamp- 
ton in  1704.  He  was  educated  at  Ck)rpu8  Christi  College,  Oxford.  He  tra- 
velled in  the  East  fix)m  1737  to  1742,  was  successively  Precentor  of  Waterford, 
Archdeacon  of  St.  Patrick,  Bishop  of  Ossory  and  of  Meath,  and  died  in  1766. 
His  "  Travels  "  are  full  of  descriptions,  particularly  of  the  curiosities  of  Egypt 
and  Palestine. 

VOL.  IT.  2  O      ■ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


562  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

the  best  bedchamber  there,  and  hang  the  bedchamber 
with  paper.  Whenever  you  put  up  paper,  the  best  way 
is  to  have  it  pasted  on  the  bare  wall ;  when  lined  with 
canvass  it  always  shrinks  from  the  edges.  I  have 
stripped  down  old  stuff  beds  and  sent  them  to  Mount 
Panther,  and  in  their  stead  am  putting  up  bhe  and  white 
linen  and  blue  and  white  paper  hangings,  this  has  taken 
up  a  good  deal  of  attention,  as  I  am  new  sashing  the 
room,  new  setting  the  grate,  enlarging  the  room,  and 
several  alterations  that  require  my  overseeing  and  must 
be  done  before  we  leave  Delville,  that  the  rooms  may 
be  fit  for  use  by  the  time  we  return.  My  work-room 
I  am  going  to  new  model,  the  wainscot  wants  new 
painting,  is  cracked  and  has  started  in  some  places ;  the 
paper  I  have  chosen  is  pearl  colour  caffoy  paper ;  the 
pattern  like  damask  :  the  pictures  look  extremely  well  on 
that  colour,  and  the  crimson  damask  vsrindow-curtain 
and  chairs  will  suit  very  well  with  it. 

Miss  Hamilton  waits  with  impatience  for  Court's 
answer ;  I  hope  some  time  hence  they  will  be  able  to 
correspond  in  French ;  she  understands  French  very 
well.  We  had  an  account  last  packet  of  Mrs.  M.  Forth's 
safe  landing  on  Saturdayl  ast — a  tedious,  safe,  but  sick 
passage.  Bushe  is  copying  a  Claude  Lorraine.  As  to 
Dublin  news,  all  I  have  heard  is  of  a  notable  battle, 
most  valiantly  fought,  between  Capt.  Carr  and  a  hdy 
at  the  Dublin  Vauxhall,  the  night  before  last ;  the  gen- 
tleman kicked  and  swore,  the  lady  boxed,  and  scratched, 
and  swore  too  (I  suppose) — for  a  woman,  that  is  so  well 
accomplished  as  to  fight  in  public  (for  she  gave  him  the 
first  blow),  cannot  want  its  concomitant  qualification  of 
swearing  upon  occasion.    Though  the  lady  was  so  stout 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  563 

to  begin  the  onset,  the  gentleman  gave  the  first  provo- 
cation by  telling  her  that  was  not  a  place  for  a  woman 
of  her  character  to  appear  in. 

On  Monday,  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton,  Bushe,  D.D.  and  I 
went  to  breakfaast  at  Lucan,  left  this  at  half  an  hour 
after  7,  and  called  for  Mrs.  H.  at  Usher's  Key.  Pound 
breakfast  prepared  for  us  in  Mrs.  Vesey's  dairy,  and  the 
table  strewed  mth  roses ;  just  as  we  were  in  the  midst 
of  our  repast  came  in  Lady  Caroline  Fox,  Mr.  Fox, 
Mrs.  Sandford,  and  Master  Fox — a  fine  rude  boy,  spoiled 
both  by  father  and  mother;  Mr.  Fox  is  a  sensible, 
agreeable  man.  Lady  C.  F.  humdrum.  It  rained 
fdrionsly ;  so  we  fell  to  work  making  frames  for  prints. 
At  2,  the  supernumeraries  went  away ;  we  dined  in  the 
cold  bath — I  mean  in  its  antichamber ;  it  was  as  pleasant 
as  a  rainy  day  could  be  when  we  wanted  to  roam  about. 
The  cold  bath  is  as  far  from  their  house,  as  Mrs.  Whyte's 
is  from  you ;  the  coach  carried  us,  and  brought  us  back 
to  the  house  for  tea  and  coflfee.  They  are  pretty  people 
to  be  with,  no  ceremony,  everybody  does  what  they 
please.  In  the  afternoon  came  Mrs.  Stone,  with  an  in- 
vitation to  us  to  dine  at  Leixlip  (the  Primate's  house) 
on  Thursday — engaged  to  Grandison's — could  not  go — 
very  sorry.  On  Wednesday,  dined  at  Mr.  Stannard's ; 
very  busy  all  the  morning  in  my  garden ;  Tuesday  went 
to  Dublin  on  business ;  first  to  a  place  called  the  WorlcCs- 
End,  where  I  spent  an  hour  and  half  in  choosing  out  a 
set  of  earthen-ware  for  the  Duchess  of  Portland,  such  as 
yours,  and  a  dozen  baskets  for  Mrs.  Montagu,  as  she 
desired ;  then  bespoke  the  paper  for  hanging  my  rooms ; 
bought  the  blue  and  white  linen  for  my  bed ;  and  had 
just  time  to  dress  before  dinner.  Thursday,  the  Earl  and 

2o2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


564  LIFE  AND  OOBRESPONDENCB 

Countess  of  Grandison,  the  Countess  of  Kerry,  Vis- 
countess Grrandison,  and  Mr.  Mason  dined  here ;  my 
house  and  garden  very  spruce  to  receive  them,  and  they 
were  very  civil  in  commending  everything ;  the  lady  is 
near  lying  in ;  I  hope  she  will  have  a  child  that  will 
live,  she  has  hitherto  been  very  unfortunate  :  they  staid 
here  till  near  nine.  Yesterday  very  busy  all  the  morning, 
taking  down  and  putting  by  my  china  and  books: 
in  the  evening  L.B,  made  some  visits  in  Dublin,  and 
drank  tea  with  Mrs.  O'Hara.  This  morning  I  need  not 
tell  you  what  I  have  done — ^my  letter  shows.  I  spent 
an  hour  pr  more  in  the  garden  before  breakfast ;  would 
not  breakfast  in  it  because  nothing  should  delay  my 
writing,  for  fear  of  visitors.  Mr.  and  Miss  Frankland, 
Mrs.  Mountenay,  Bishop  of  Derry,  Mrs.  Barnard,  Mr. 
Barnard,  dine  here  to-day,  and  to-morrow  we  breakfast 
at  Lucan.  t 


Sir  Anthony  Wescombe  to  the  HonMe.  Bernard  OranvtUe,  Esq.^  at  Calwic\ 
near  Ashboum^  Derbyshire. 

July  the  1st,  from  Blacklanda. 

Yours,  my  dear  cousin,  of  the  3*  instant,  I  received ; 
most  people  inquiring  after  you,  but  I  could  not  sa- 
tisfy them.  Of  all  your  friends  there  is  none  left 
but  Charles  Hearne,  who  returns  his  hearty  service. 
Mr.  Luttrell,  I  have  not  seen  lately.  You  complain 
of  the  heat  you  had  after  your  arrival.  June  was 
rather  a  cold  month  till  the  latter  end,  and  all  this 
month  has  been  the  hottest  ever  known.  I  hear  the 
thermometer  is  at  eighty  degrees.  1  am  quite  burnt 
upj  and  have  several  shrubs  killed  in  the  wilderness. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  565 

My  apricots  fall  down  by  dozens,  and  my  people  never 
dine  without  a  dessert,  my  peaches  and  nectarines  swell 
very  little  yet,  plmns  none  ripe,  but  great  appearance 
of  grapes.  I  have  been  very  imlucky  in  my  melons. 
I  have  many  plants  of  cucumbers,  and  yet  I  have 
not  had  any  for  use  till  yesterday ;  in  short,  I  must  call 
this  a  bad  year  for  gardens. 

I  am  a  Utle  better  of  my  lameness,  and  thank  you 
for  your  kind  inquiry  about  it.     I  wish  good  weather 
to  your  garden,  and  that  your  labours  therein  may 
prosper.     I  am,  very  sincerely, 
Dear  sir, 

Your  most  affectionate  faithful  servant, 

A.  Wescombe, 


Mn.  De^any  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

DeMUe,  7  July,  1750. 

It  is  not  possible  to  secure  a  day  without  interruption. 
I  thought  myself  secure  of  this,  having  refused  some 
parties  on  purpose  not  to  be  hindered;  when  last 
night  a  note  came  to  inform  me  that  Lady  Caroline 
and  Mr.  Fox,  and  the  family  at  Lucan  would  breakfast 
here,  as  they  were  going  in  a  few  days  to  England. 
I  could  not  put  it  off,  so  have  set  all  my  best  china  ^ 
in  order,  and  prepared  everything  for  their  reception ; 
and  as  they  are  people  of  taste^  I  honour  them  so  far 
as  to  permit  them  to  breakfast  in  the  library !  it  has 
struck  eleven,  and  I  hope  they  will  not  come  till  12. 

I  felt  your  vexation  and  disappointment  when  Sally 


1  Mrs.  Delany  had  a  great  quantity  of  very  beautiful  old  China  in  which 
she  was  a  great  connoisseur. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


566  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

was  with  you,  for  an  old  affectionate  friend  as  she  is 
one  wishes  to  enjoy  without  interruption.  Ton  may 
forgive  some  from  your  neighbour  Sproser  for  the  good 
turn  they  did  you  at  that  time.  I  am  much  rejoiced 
at  the  good  fortune  of  young  Chapone,  and  hope  he 
will  be  enabled  to  provide  for  his  sisters.  I  am  glad 
Lady  A.  Coventry  liked  the  shell  work  I  have  sent  you 
by  Mrs.  Mountenay,  (a  lady  that  lives  with  Miss  Frank- 
land),  the  twelve  tea  napkins  you  desired,  a  little  box  of 
odd  shells  that  I  think  you  have  not  (amongst  them 
the  harp  shell  and  two  small  whole'acoUops)^  and  three 
old  smocks  for  cut  out  work.  I  desired  the  parcel  to  be 
left  with  Mr.  Gierke  in  Jermyn  Street,  where  you  may 
send  your  commands  for  them ;  I  fancy  the  doctors  will 
call  on  you  as  they  return.  They  are  very  different  men 
— some  affectation  in  one  and  whimsical  withal,  the  other 
plmn  and  sincere. 

D.D,  has  allowed  me  so  much  time  to  prepare  for 
our  northern  expedition,  that!  have  not  hurried  much 
about  it,  and  have  now  little  to  do.  Bushe  is  still  with 
me,  but  goes  on  Monday  next ;  I  wish  I  could  conveni- 
ently have  taken  her  with  me  to  the  North.  We  have 
at  last,  I  believe,  fixed  our  day.  We  propose  setting 
out  next  Monday  or  Tuesday  se'night :  we  go  to  Sea- 
forde,  to  Mr.  Forde*s  (two  miles  from  Mount  Panther), 
for  two  or  three  days  till  all  our  tackling  is  settled.  I 
am  glad  Lady  Sarah  Cowper  has  bought  a  house  near 
her  brother's,  and  hope  our  cousin*  will  know  how  to 
value  and  cherish  her  worth.  I  have  not  heard  from 
my  brother  a  great  while ;  I  suppose  his  removing  has 


1  The  Countess  Cowper,  daughter  of  Lord  Granville. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  567 

hurried  him,  and  though  hearing  from  him  is  a  vast 
pleasure  I  am  so  used  to  his  silence  that  it  does  not 
alarm  me. 

Last  Sunday  the  Veseys  engaged  us  to  breakfast  and 
dine  with  them  at  Lucan ;  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton  of  our  party ; 
her  wk  aiid  sprightliness  makes  her  a  good  addition  on 
such  occasions.  D.D.  gave  us  prayers  in  the  chapel, 
and  as  soon  as  they  were  over  we  set  out  in  open 
landau  to  Luttrell's  Town  (two  miles  from  Lucan);  the 
road  by  the  river  side,  on  the  other  hand  high  banks 
covered  with  trees  :  it  is  a  fine  place,  and  I  think  I  have 
described  it  to  you  in  some  of  my  former  letters.  We 
dined  very  agreeably  at  the  cold  bath.  Monday  was  a 
busy  morning,  spent  the  afternoon  with  my  Mrs.  HamiU 
ton.  Wednesday,  we  dined  in  great  form  at  Mrs.  Agar's, 
sister  to  Mr.  Ellis,  one  of  the  Admiralty ;  (he  and  his 
lady  there.)  Thursday,  had  made  a  pariy  to  breakfast 
again  at  Lucan,  ditto,  party  to  dine  at  Castletown,  Mrs. 
Conolly's — which  we  did;  and  there  also  dined  the 
Primate,  the  Archbishop  of  Cashell,^  Lord  George 
Sackville,^  Mrs.  Marley,  and  as  many  as  made  up  our 
dinner  company  nineteen. 

Yesterday  was  spent  in  tranquillity  at  home;  and 
this  day  may  prove  so  too,  for  nobody  is  yet  come,  and 
'tis  past  12  o'clock,  and  a  cloudy  rainy  day;  n'importe, 
only  bread  and  butter  is  spread,  and  water  boiling 
without  mercy.     On  Monday  next  we  are  invited  to  the 


1  Dr.  Arthur  Price,  Bishop  of  Meath,  made  Archhiahop  of  Caahell  in  1744, 
died,  1752. . 

2  Lord  George  Sackville,  third  son  of  Lionel  Duke  of  Dorset.  He  assumed 
the  surname  of  Germaine  in  1770,  and  was  created  Viscount  Sackville  in 
1782. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


568  LIFE  AND  CX)RRE8PONDEN0E 

Virtuoso  EpicurosOj  Mr.  Bristowe ;   and  you  shall  know 
to  a  pepper-corn  what  we  have  to  dinner. 

I  have  painters  and  carpenters  now  hammering  and 
brushing  away;  and  I  have  determined  about  my 
Minerva,  and^shall  paper  it ;  my  cabinet  of  shells  to  be 
removed  into  the  library  whilst  the  room  is  sprucing  up, 
for  fear  of  my  glass  doors ;  the  removing  it  will  be  a 
difficult  affair,  for  I  don't  mean  to  take  down  any  shells 
but  those  that  are  near  the  edge  of  the  shelves.  Was 
anything  more  teazing!  almost  3,  and  no  company 
come,  and  I  have  sauntered  away  the  greatest  part  of 
the  morning  looking  for  them  through  the  telescope, 
and  preparing  the  breakfast  things ;  there  must  have 
been  some  mistake.  I  have  not  entirely  lost  time 
though,  had  I  been  more  settled,  you  would  have  had 
rather  a  better  letter.  It  grieves  me  that  I  have  not 
written  to  Lady  Sarah  Cowper :  I  have  tried,  but  a 
damp  seized  my  spirits,  and  I  was  afraid  of  raising  or 
increasing  a  melancholy  I  fear  she  suffers  greatly  from ; 
but  I  wiU  wrUe  next  post.  How  can  people  say  we 
grow  indifferent  as  we  grow  old  ?  It  is  just  the  reverse ; 
the  longer  we  live  in  the  world  the  more  we  find  how 
necessary  a  faithful  friend  is  to  our  happiness :  every- 
thing else  grows  indifferent,  the  show  and  splendour 
and  laughter  of  the  world  dulls  and  palls ;  but  the  love 
of  our  friends  brightens  and  strengthens  as  our  follies 
abate.  No  philosophy,  no  reasoning,  can  root  out  that 
plant  if  sown  with  truth  and  sincerity ;  and  why  should 
it?  I  have  now  entered  on  a  subject  that  fills  my 
heart,  and  overflows  at  my  pen's  end,  but  have  no  more 
time,  dinner  being  ready. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  569 

Mrs.  DeUmy  to  Mrs,  Deives, 

BelviUe,  16  July,  1750. 

It  is  very  likely  this  letter  will  find  the  net  without 
the  bird ;  but  be  that  as  it  may,  write  I  must.  On  Tues- 
day next  we  propose  setting  out  for  the  North.  I  am 
now  as  busy  as  a  notable  housewife  must  be  on  such  an 
occasion,  and  the  more  so  as  alterations  are  going  on 
here,  as  well  as  preparations  for  the  place  we  are  going 
to.  I  have  done  up  a  little  apartment,  hung  it  with 
blue-and-white  paper,  and  intend  a  bed  of  blue-and- 
white  linen  —  aU  Irish  manufdctare;  and  hope  some 
day  to  be  so  happy  as  to  show  it  to  you,  but  your 
apartment  is  allotted  in  another  part  of  the  house. 
We  have  had  such  sultry  weather  that  it  has  hardly 
been  to  be  endured ;  I  think  it  veiy  little  short  of  the 
memorable  day  we  spent  at  Mr.  Williamson's.  I  hope 
you  are  now  enjoying  sweet  breezes  under  Calwich 
trees,  and  my  dear  little  Mary  playing  on  the  grass 
under  your  eye ;  she  is  too  much  a  jewel  to  be  trusted 
out  of  sight,  and  though  the  boys  are  as  valuable,  you 
must  be  a  little  weaned  from  them,  as  their  different 
education  must  call  them  from  you. 


Mrs»  Delany  io  Bema/rd  OranmUe,  Esq. 

Delville,  15  July,  1760. 

I  had  the  pleasure  last  packet  of  receiving  my 
dearest  brother's  letter  from  Calwich,  and  hope  the 
violent  heat  we  have  had  has  made  your  hay,  ripened 
your  fruit,  and  done  you  all  the  good  imaginable';  but  I 


Digitized  by 


Googk 


570  LIFE  AND  CX)RRBSPONDENCE 

don't  pity  you,  (though  it  has  been  ahnost  intolerably 
sultry,)  who  have  such  trees  to  shade  and  such  reviving 
cascades  to  cool  you,  1  never  enjoyed  Delville  so  much 
as  I  have  done  this  year,  there  having  hardly  been  a 
day  that  I  could  not  live  in  the  garden  from  morning 
till  night  I  am  in  hopes,  according  to  my  sister's  last 
letter,  that  this  will  find  you  together.  Now  I  have  told 
you  how  much  enjoyment  I  have  had  of  Delville,  I  must 
tell  you  we  are  on  the  brink  of  leaving  it.  For  some 
days  past  I  have  been  sending  all  sorts  of  household 
goods  and  stores  for  Mount  Panther,  and  propose  leaving 
this  on  Tuesday  next.  D.D.  is  finishing  alterations  in 
his  garden,  and  giving  directions  for  what  is  to  be  done 
in  his  absence.  I  smpresermigj  pickling,  and  papering, 
&c.,  &c,,  &c.,  &c.,  and  giving  directions  to  my  maids ; 
and  I  have  just  spruced  up  a  little  apartment  for  you, 
come  when  you  please.  I  have  a  thousand  times  re- 
solved never  to  &ay  a  word  more  on  this  subject ;  it  looks  like 
teazing,  but  I  do  not  mean  it  so :  my  heart  is  fiill,  and 
wishing  to  see  you  in  a  place  where,  I  thank  GKxi,  I 
find  myself  very  happy  in  evert/  re^^  hut  that  of  not 
seeing  ^feio  very  dear  friends  I 

Last  Tuesday  Mr.  Fox  and  Lady  Caroline,  and  the 
Vesey  family  breakfasted  here.  Lady  Grandison  was 
brought  to  bed  the  day  before  yesterday  of  a  son — ^great 
joy.  I  hope  it  will  live,  it  is  the  &th  child  and  none  alit^. 
The  present  talk  of  Dublin  is  of  Mr.  Tilson's  marriage 
with  Lady  Kerry^  last  Thursday — nobody  suspected  it; 
he  is  a  very  lively,  gay  man,  and  she  rather  of  the  insipid 


1  Countess  of  Kerry. — Lady  Gertrude  Lambert^  daughter  of  Richaid,  Earl  of 
Cavan,  married  first,  June  29,  1738,  William,  Earl  of  Kerry,  and  2nd,  James 
Tilson,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DBLANY.  571 

strain.  Miss  Hamilton  is  my  confectioner  to-day,  and 
is  at  this  time  making  orange-flower  bread  of  my  own 
orange flx/wers^  of  which  I  am  not  a  little  proud;  I  am 
called  to  assist,  but  must  first  tell  you  that  I  have  sent 
to  Mr.  Luke  Chtvin,  merchant  at  Chester,  a  barrel  of 
shells,  a  mixture  of  all  sorts,  let  them  be  separated  as 
you  unpack  them ;  I  have  done  ii  in  packing  them  as 
well  as  I  could,  and  now  I  leave  you  to  your  works  and 
go  to  mine.  The  best  of  services  and  wishes  attend 
Calwich  from  Delviile. 

I  am  yours, 

M.  Delany. 


Mrs,  lidany  to  Mrs,  Detves. 

(Dated  "  DdvUU,'*  evidently  hy  mistahe,) 
21  July,  1760. 

I  know  my  dearest  sister  wishes  to  hear  if  I  am  safe 
at  my  journey's  end  :  thank  God  we  are !  We  arrived 
a  little  fatigued  last  night;  but  a  good  night's  rest 
has  refreshed  us,  and  we  are  both  very  well.  We  had 
intended  staying  some  days  with  Mrs.  Forde  in  our 
neighbourhood,  not  thinking  we  should  find  our  habita- 
tion so  fit  for  our  reception  as  it  is ;  but  as  there  were 
many  things  to  settle,  which  could  not  very  well  be 
done  without  D.D.  and  my  directing  them,  we  thought 
it  best  to  rest  here.  We  shall  dine  to-day  at  Seaforde, 
and  to-morrow  at  Downpatrick.  You  who  have  had 
the  experience  of  such  affairs,  can  figure  to  yourself, 
my  present  bustle — trunks,  hampers,  unpacking,  hay 
flying  all  over  the  house ;  everybody  scrambling 
for  their  things,  asking  a  thousand  questions,  as 
"  Where  is  this  to  be  put?"— "What  shall  we  do  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


572  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

such,  and  such,  and  such  a  thing?**  However,  the 
hurry  is  pretty  well  over,  the  dust  subsides,  the  clamours 
cease,  and  I  am  hurried  away  to  dress ;  I  am  really 
surprised  at  Smith's  thorough  cleverness  in  going 
through  her  work — she  has  got  everything  almost  in 
as  much  order  as  if  she  had  been  here  a  week. 


Mrs.  Deives  to  Mr,  Oranvilh, 

Welsboum,  24  July,  1750. 

I  hope  to  have  the  happiness  of  seeing  you  soon,  but 
as  Mr,  Dewes  is  now  at  Mapleburrough  I  can't  fix  my 
day,  and  he  is  so  desirous  of  having  as  much  of  your 
company  as  he  can,  that  I  believe  we  shall  come  together ; 
and  since  you  are  so  good  to  permit  me  I  will  bring  the 
little  girl,  but  desire  you  to  mind  her  no  more  than  the 
favourites  we  used  to  have  of  another  kind,  Fripong, 
Daff,  &c. ;  and  indeed  I  don't  suflfer  her  to  be  so  trouble- 
some as  they  sometimes  were.  She  is  in  the  whole  pretty 
well,  but  is  subject  to  a  little  cough,  which  I  believe  your 
good  air  will  take  quite  off.  I  shall  leave  the  boys 
together  to  learn  French  before  they  go  to  school,  and 
the  maid  I  took  in  town  seems  a  sober  body,  and  I  dare 
say  will  be  careful  of  them,  and  she  has  another  to 
assist  her.  Mr.  Dewes  is  gone  for  two  or  three  days 
to  set  his  tythes,  which  is  always  a  troublesome  work. 

I  have  been  contriving  a  Staffordshire  oven  in  my 
kitchen  chimney.  T  heard  yesterday  from  my  sister,  who 
is  well.  In  hopes  of  seeing  you  soon  I  will  add  no 
more  but  compliments  as  due  to  and  from  all  friends. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  573 

Mrs,  Detoes  to  Bernard  OranviUe,  Esq. 

Welsbouro,  28  July,  1750. 

I  thank  God  I  can  tell  you,  my  dear  brother,  that 
Court  is  surprizingly  mended,  and  no  lameness  (which  I 
greatly  dreaded)  or  any  inconvenience  remains  from  his 
fall,  only  the  bruises  a  little  sore ;  and  the  poor  thing 
looks  sadly  in  the  face,  but  he  is  very  brisk,  and  has 
been  abroad.  Indeed  it  is  miraculous  that  he  was  not 
killed,  and  I  cannot  think  of  it  without  trembling,  and 
endeavour  to  recollect  it  as  little  as  possible,  and  hope 
to  banish  all  melancholy  thoughts  by  the  pleasure  of 
your  company.  Though  so  many  things  happen  in  my 
family  to  prevent  my  designs,  /  hope  nothing  wiU  now 
deprive  me  of  the  happiness  I  propose  in  being  at  Cal- 
wi«h  some  day  the  week  after  next,  which  will  be  about 
the  9th  or  10th  of  August ;  I  can't  fix  the  day,  but 
shall  write  again,  Mr.  Dewes  cannot  have  the  pleasure 
of  going  with  me,  for  his  building  will  not  be  covered 
in  this  fortnight  and  he  must  not  leave  his  workmen, 
but  he  hopes  to  follow  me.  If  I  don't  hear  I  shall  set 
out,  and  take  your  kind  permission  of  bringing  my  little 
girl,  who  has  a  little  cough  still  but  is  otherways  well ; 
I  propose  to  have  a  pair  of  horses  to  add  to  our  own, 
which  I  believe  will  draw  the  chariot  with  so  little  lug- 
gage as  I  have  occasion  for. 

Doctor  Barber  called  here  on  his  way  to  Ireland,  and 
left  Mr.  Kinersley  very  well  at  Cheltenham. 

These  letters  from  Mrs.  Dewes  to  her  brother  are  interesting, 
as  showing  the  very  formal  way  in  which  Mr.  Granville  was  treated 
by  his  sisters ;  and  as  it  does  not  appear  that  Ann  Granville  ever  dis- 
pleased him,  some  idea  may  be  formed  by  her  style  of  addressing  him 


Digitized  by 


Google 


574  LIFE  AND  OOREBSPONDENCE 

of  his  power  of  trying  the  feelings  of  Mrs.  Delany  by  cold  civility, 
after  she  had  offended  him  by  her  marriage  with  Dr.  Delany ;  the 
ceremonious  manner  in  which  he  was  addressed,  would  not  be  at  all 
surprising  if  there  was  anything  besides  form  in  these  letters,  but 
there  is  not ;  and  as  the  correspondence  of  the  sisters  with  each  other 
shows  how  much  they  cared  for  him,  it  is  evident  that  Mrs.  Dewes 
would  have  written  more  if  she  had  dared. 


Mr9.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

•  Monnt  Paother,  28  July,  1760. 

The  26tli  of  this  month  was  remembered,  my  dearest 
sister,  with  every  wish  the  heart  could  form  for  your  long 
enjoyment  of  every  earthly  blessing ;  it  was  not  cele- 
brated with  song  and  dance  and  other  external  expres- 
sions of  joy,  but  with  every  oblation  of  true  and  perfect 
friendship.  We  asked  our  good  friends  the  Fordeato 
dine  with  us  on  that  day,  but  Mrs,  F.  had  a  bad  cold 
and  could  not  come,  and  Mr.  Forde  staid  at  home  to 
take  care  of  her,  so  they  sent  us  three  of  their  daughters 
and  one  of  their  sons,  a  young  comet ;  very  pretty 
young  people,  modest  and  sensible,  especially  my 
favorite,  Cherry,  who  used  to  spend  some  time  with  me, 
but  I  am  afraid  her  eldest  brother's  wedding  will  rob 
me  of  her  this  summer.  He  is  going  to  be  married  to  an 
agreeable  young  woman,  Miss  Knox,^  with  ten  thousand 
pounds  fortune ;  the  wedding  is  to  be  next  week,  at 
the  young  lady*s  father's,  and  I  hope  they  will  all  come 
together  to  Seaforde,  which  will  make  our  neighbor- 
hood very  lively.  Mr.  Forde,  the  father,  has  done 
very  generously  by  his  son,  has  settled  £2100  a  year 


1  Elizatwih,  daughter  pf  Thomas  Knox,  Esq.,  and  sister  of  Thoroas,  1st 
Viscount  Northland,  married  Matthew  Forde,  of  Seaforde,  Esq.,  county  Down. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  575 

on  him ;  £1000  per  ann.  at  present,  and  his  house  at 
Seaforde  furnished  as  it  stands — which  is  a  fine  settle- 
ment for  a  man  who  has  six  sons  and  three  daughters ; 
but  there  is  one  error  which  most  fathers  run  into,  and 
that  is  in  providing  too  little  for  daughters;  young 
men  have  a  thousand  ways  of  improving  a  little  for- 
tune, by  professions  and  employments,  if  they  have 
good  friends,  but  young  gentlewomen  have  no  way, 
the  fortune  settled  on  them  is  all  they  are  to  expect 
— they  are  incapable  of  making  an  addition.* 

I  suppose  you  are  at  this  time  at  Calwich,  though  I 
will  not  venture  to  direct  this  letter  there ;  but  as  I  shall 
write  to-day  to  my  brother,  that  will  give  you  an  ac- 
coimt  of  us  and  serve  till  this  travels  to  you.  I  am  glad 
you  have  thoughts  of  taking  my  Pauline  with  you ;  I 
am  sure  my  brother  will  be  diverted  with  her  drollery, 
and  she  will  be  vastly  happy,  and  I  think  a  little  wean" 
ing  her  from  the  boys  (as  she  is  growing  too  old  to 
be  their  constant  playfellow)  will  do  very  well.  D.D. 
begs  little  Bunny's  excuse  for  not  answering  his  ques- 
tion about  the  verse  out  of  the  137th  Psalm ;  the  truth 
is  he  was  always  so  busy  on  the  days  I  wrote  my 
letters  that  he  had  not  leisure  to  give  me  the  explana- 
tion. The  verse  is  addressed  to  the  people  of  Babylon, 
who  were  then  in  the  height  of  wickedness.  The 
destroying  of  the  children  of  vile  and  wicked  parents 
(whose  example  might  lead  them  into  like  errors)  was 
rmrcy  to  the  children,  and  often  God  Almighty's  chas- 

>  The  opinion  here  expressed  about  "  young  gentlemen  "  does  not  oontnidict 
the  former  sentiments  of  Mrs.  Delany,  who  was  a  strong  advocate  for  all 
yonng  gentlewomen  who  had  not  any  fortune  assisting  in  their  own  main* 
tainance  by  practicai  usefulness  in  the  families  of  richer  persons ;  though  she 
was  well  aware  that  at  the  rate  of  remuneration  then  given,  few  oould  save 
much  towards  their  old  age. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


576  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

tisements  were  executed  by  angels  sent  for  that  pur- 
pose. 

I  will,  the  first  leisure  lazy  hour  that  comes  in  my 
way,  make  a  pattern  for  Miss  M.  I  should  accuse  my- 
self, who  have  been  above  a  year  and  half  without 
writing  to  Lady  S.  Cowper,  and  she  the  same  by  me, 
and  longer,  and  yet  I  know  we  love  each  other,  and  she 
has  talents  for  writing  which  Lady  Abbess  has  not,  and 
is  sensible  of  it ;  but  I  know  the  employment  is  painful 
to  her.  Betty's  voice  not  at  all  mended,  her  other  com- 
plaints better:  this  account  I  have  from  Mrs.  Forth, 
who  is  there — not  Mrs.  Hamilton ;  who  intends  fixing 
you  in  Ireland.  Mrs.  Grierson  understood  Greek,  not 
Hebrew^  I  believe. 

And  now  to  tell  you  a  little  of  Mount  Panther. 
To  begin  then :  Last  Sunday  dined  at  Downpatrick 
(after  church).  Mr.  and  Mrs.  and  Miss  Leonargan,  Mr. 
Bereton,  curate  of  Down,  Mr.  Trotter,  agent  to  Mr 
Southwell,  dined  with  us ;  went  to  church  again  at  4 
went  home  at  5,  two  hours  on  the  road^  and  visits  to  Lady 
Anne  Annesley  and  Mrs.  Bayley  and  their  husbands 
made  half  an  hour ;  tired,  supped,  talked  over  the  com- 
pany of  the  day ;  went  to  bed  before  eleven ;  up  next 
morn  early ;  routed  about  the  house,  found  many  repairs 
wanting  ;  sent  for  smith,  carpenter,  and  cowper ;  catch- 
ing showers ;  peeped  now  and  then  into  the  garden — 
excellent  gooseberries,  currants,  potatoes,  and  all  the  garden 
stuff;  fine  salmon,  lobster,  trout,  crabs,  every  day  at  the 
door.  Monday  evening  went  to  Dundrum,  a  mile  off,  a 
pleasant  nest  of  cabins  by  the  sea-side,  where  may  be  had 
kitchen  chairs,  French  white  wine,  vinegar,  Hungary 
water,  and  capers;  mugs  a,ndpigs,  of  which  we  bought 
some.   The  French  white  wine  is  five  pence  per  bottle 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  577 

we  have  not  yet  tasted  it.  Tuesday,  busy  all  the  morn- 
ing with  carpenters.  We  dined  at  our  neighbour's,  Mr. 
Anneslay ;  his  father  is  dead,  and  has  left  him  above 
£7000  a  year.  Yesterday,  we  went  in  the  morning  to 
Holly  Mount  (6  miles  off)  to  see  the  Prices,  who  are  in 
great  affliction,  having  buried  a  favourite  daughter  three 
weeks  ago.  Came  back  to  dipner,  and  had  for  company 
Mr.  Sturgeon,  Mr.  Mathews,  ReV*.  Mr.  Johnson  (D.D.'s 
agent),  and  his  nephew.  To-day  I  propose  writing 
abundance  of  letters  and  going  again  to  Dundrum ;  to- 
morrow to  preach  and  dine  at  Down,  and  so  ends  the 
round  0  of  my  journal. 


Mrs.  Dewes  to  Bernard  Oranville,  Esq.,  at  CcUwich,  near  Ashboum^  Derby' 
shire,  by  vxiy  of  London. 

Maplebunough  Qreen,  12  August,  1750. 

Last  Thursday  I  brought  my  three  sick  children  here. 
I  hope  this  air,  which  is  esteemed  very  good,  will  be  of 
service  to  them,  as  yet  there  is  no  amendment ;  the 
weather  has  been  so  wet,  that  I  believe  that  keeps  them 
from  mending.  Jackey  has  had  two  fits  of  an  ague. 
Mary's  cough  is  very  bad,  but  as  she  is  not  feverish  I 
hope  she  will  not  be  in  danger,  but  I  can't  help  having 
many  fears.  The  rural  quietness  of  this  place  would 
please  me  very  well,  had  I  not  set  my  heart  upon  being 
at  a  much  pleasanter  place  and  with  my  dear  brother, 
whose  kind  letter  I  received  yesterday,  and  return  many 
thanks  for  it  I  can't  tell  when  I  shall  be  so  happy  as 
to  appoint  your  servant  to  conduct  me  through  the 
waters,  which  I  shall  willingly  encounter,  so  earnestly 

VOL.  II.-  2  P 


Digitized  by 


Google 


578  LIFE  AND  OORRBSPONDENCE 

do  I  wish  to  see  you,  and  I  yet  hope  my  little  flock 
will  give  me  leave. 

The  tenant  who  has  the  farm  has  the  worst  part  of 
the  house ;  the  rest  being  ready  furnished  makes  it  very 
convenient  when  we  have  a  mind  to  be  here  at  any  time, 
or  bring  the  children,  and  I  believe  the  sCir  is  better 
than  Welsboum  as  the  situation  is  higher.  We  were 
chliged  to  ask  leave  of  Lady  Luxborough'  to  come 
through  her  grounds,  the  roads  being  so  bad  the  other 
way  a  coach  camiot  come.  She  was  at  the  door  to  re- 
ceive us,  and  obliged  me  to  go  in,  was  most  profoundly 
civil,  and  comes  to  see  me  this  week ;  I  am  not  vastly 
fond  of  her  acquaintance,  though  she  is  entertaining, 
and  has  made  her  house  and  garden  very  pretty. 

The  first  calf  Finch,  my  favourite  cow,  (which  you  gave 
me,)  had  was  so  beautiful  I  could  not  bear  to  have  it 
killed,  so  gave  it  to  this  tenant  to  breed  up,  and  it  is 
grown  a  fierce  stately  bull,  and  the  terror  of  me  and  the 
whole  neighbourhood.  It  tossed  his  master  and  gored 
him  so  badly  two  months  ago,  that  they  thought  he 
would  have  died,  and  he  has  not  yet  recovered  it,  but  he 
vnll  not  part  with  the  bull,  it  is  so  fine  a  creature ; 
though  Mr.  Dewes  would  have  given  him  the  value  of 
it  for  fear  of  farther  mischief;  but  he  is  at  a  distance 
from  the  house  safe  shut  up,  in  a  ground  only  milking 
times,  and  then  /  am  safe  shut  tp  m  the  house — ^indeed 
the  rain  has  kept  me  much  there  hitherto.    I  heard  last 

^  Henrietta,  eldest  daughter  of  Henry  Visoount  8t.  John,  and  half  sister  of 
Henry,  1st  Viscount  Bolingbroke.  She  married,  June  20,  1727,  Robert 
Knight,  of  Barrels,  Esq.,  in  the  county  of  Warwick,  who  was  created  an  Irish 
peer,  by  the  title  of  Lord  Luzborou^,  August  8,  1749,  and  made  Earl  of 
Catherlough  and  Visoount  Barrels,  April  30,  1763.  Lady  Luzborough  died 
in  1756. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  579 

post  from  my  sister,  who  is  well  at  Down  and  ima- 
gines  me  at  Calwich,  where  I  was  in  hopes  to  have 
been ;  Mr.  Dewes  brought  me  here,  and  then  went  back 
to  his  building.  I  forgot  to  bring  franks,  so  you  must 
pay  for  a  long  letter. 

The  constant  agues  which  children  suffered  from  in  the  last 
century,  and  the  incessant  course  of  drugs  which  they  imbibed  in- 
wardly and  outwardly,  give  cause  for  wonder  that  anybody  sur- 
vived to  be  bled  when  they  were  grown  up,  or  that  having  thus 
survived,  that  any  one  ever  arrived  at  old  age ! 

Horace  Walpole  ^ves  a  witty  and  amusing  account  of  Lady 
Luxborough  in  a  letter  to  Lady  Ossoiy,  and  also  to  Miss  Berry. 
To  the  fermer  he  states  his  expectation  of  being  diverted  by  Lady 
Luzborough's  letters,  and  his  recollection  of  her  "  wearing  her  little 
wizened  husband's  picture  in  her  great  black  bush  of  hair.''  He 
states  that  "  she  fell  in  love  with  Parson  Dalton,  (Prebendary  of 
Worcester  and  Bector  of  St.  Mary-at-Hill,  London,  who  adapted 
to  the  stage  Milton's  Comus),  and  that  they  rhymed  together,  and 
that  he  (Horace  Walpole)  never  saw  her  more  till  she  revived  in 
Shenstone's  letters,  and  was  a  great  performer  in  his  ballad  of 
Arcadia,  and  that  he  thought  these  materials  of  her  history  pro- 
mised well  for  entertainment  in  her  correspondence,  considering 
that  she  was  skter  bath  of  Lord  Bolingbroke  and  of  HoUis  St 
John."  Fourteen  years  after  these  remarks  he  answers  Miss 
Berry's  queries  about  Lady  Luxborough,  by  saying  that  **  she  was 
dead  and  forgotten,  except  on  the  shelves  of  an  old  library,  or  those 
of  his  own  memory ;"  that  "  Lady  Luxborough  was  the  first  wife  of 
Lord  Catherlough  before  he  was  an  Earl,  who  was  the  son  of 
Enight  the  South  Sea  Cashier,  and  whose  second  wife  lived  (1789) 
at  Twickenham ;"  that  "  Lady  Luxborough,  a  high-coloured  black 
woman,  parted  from  her  husband  and  retired  into  the  country,  and 
corresponded  with  the  small  poets  of  the  time,  but  as  there  was 
no  Theseus  amongst  them,  it  was  said  that  like  Ariadne  she  had 
consoled  herself  with  Bacchus,  although  this  might  be  a  &ble." 

This  little  narrative  of  Lady  Luxborough's  antecedents,  sufS- 

2p2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


580  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE  * 

ciently  explains  why  Mrs.  Dewes  did  not  wish  for  her  acquaint- 
ance»  and  regretted  being  compelled  to  be  under  an  obligation  to 
her. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mn.  Dewes, 

Without  date,  but  evidently  Augt.,  1750. 

I  am  glad  you  detest  the  tubs  of  hoops, — I  keep  within 
bounds,  endeavouring  to  avoid  all  particularities  of  being 
too  much  in  or  out  of  fashion;  youth  and  liveliness 
never  prompted  me  to  break  through  that  rule,  not  con- 
sidering I  had  graces  enough  of  my  own  to  carry  off  any 
extravagance,  and  now  my  years  and  station  tie  me 
down  to  that  which  has  ever  been  my  choice. 

I  must  go  back  to  Sunday,  on  which  day  I  went  with 
the  Dean  to  Bailee,  one  of  his  churches,  where  he 
preached,  and  afterwards  dined  at  Mr.  Johnston  s,  his 
agent  and  receiver  :  there  we  were  stowed  up  in  a  very- 
tiny  house  (but  very  neat)  in  a  most  sultry  day,  with  a 
table  crowded  with  all  sorts  of  good  things ;  our  coming 
home  was  very  pleasant,  great  part  of  the  way  over  a 
fine  strand.  The  place  I  gave  you  an  account  of,  where 
we  went  to  gather  shells,  is  not  within  a  walk,  'tis  two 
long  miles  from  hence;  next  week  hope  to  go  again. 
You  have  never  mentioned  Carolan's  tunes^  since  you 
said  you  had  received  them,  have  you  tried  them  ?  I 
think  some  are  very  pretty ;  Sir  Toby  Buck  and  Mich^ 
O'Connor    are    great  favourites.    We  have    the    same 


^  Garolan,  the  celebrated  Irish  harper,  of  whom  Walsh  says : — "  He  was 
the  last  of  our  native  Irish  bards,  whose  compositions  gave  celebrity  to  their 
author ;  he  died  in  the  year  1738,  and  with  him  may  be  said  to  have  expired 
what  remained  in  DubHn  of  that  taste  for  ample  and  touching  melody  so 
I)eculiar  in  its  character  and  so  long  cherished  in  this  country." 


Digitized  by 


Google 


*  OF  MRS.  DELANY.  581 

harper  in  the  house  we  had  when  at  Hollymount ;  he 
plays  very  well,  and  knows  a  vast  variety  of  tunes ;  and 
hot  as  the  weather  is  the  young  folks  meet  here  once  or 
twice  a  week  and  make  up  at  most  three  couple,  always 
dance  six  or  seven  dances^  and  I  love  to  see  them  mirthful, 
though  I  don't  find  myself  alicays  inclined  to  join  with 
them. 

The  happiest  mortal  breathing  (if  ever  they  think)  must 
sometimes  feel  an  alloy  to  their  most  enlivened  pleasures. 
Thursday  and  yesterday  I  spent  very  calmly  and  agree- 
ably. On  Thursday,  D.D.  and  Dr.  Mathews  went  to 
Downpatrick,  Miss  Ford  (of  whom  I  have  ^ven  you  a 
character  I  believe)  read  to  me  whilst  I  worked  at  my 
quilt*  till  the  gentlemen  came  home  to  dinner.  In  the 
evening  when  it  grew  cool  we  went  to  Clough  to  see 
Lady  Anne  Annesley  in  the  chaise,  and  walked  home. 
Yesterday  morning  between  six  and  seven  we  walked 
(with  our  harper)  to   Mount  Panther^  to  serenade  the 


1  This  might  have  been  either  of  tT?o  quilts,  parts  of  which  are  still  in 
perfect  preservation  :  the  one  was  an  intricate  pattern  of  leaves  cat  out  in 
white  linen  and  sewed  down  with  white  knotting  on  bright  dark  blue 
linen ;  or  it  might  have  been  the  commencement  of  another  most  won- 
derfiil  quilt  worked  by  Mrs.  Delany,  and  one  of  the  very  few  things  she 
never  finished.  It  appears  only  to  have  been  done  when  she  had  no 
painting  to  occupy  her,  and  when  old  age  at  last  forbad  the  execution 
of  pictures  (either  with  pencil  or  scissors)  this  quilt  could  not  be  com- 
pleted. It  is  on  white  linen,  worked  in  flowers,  the  size  of  nature,  delineated 
with  the  finest  coloured  silks  in  running  stitch,  which  is  made  use  of  in  the 
same  manner  as  by  a  pen  etching  on  white  paper ;  the  outline  was  first 
drawn  with  pencil,  each  flower  is  different  and  evidently  done  at  the  mo- 
ment  from  the  original. 

'  It  is  difficult  to  explain  how  the  Dean  and  Mrs.  Delany  could  walk  to 
Mount  Panther  at  six  in  the  morning,  when  they  were  residing  there ; 
but  the  only  explanation  seems  to  be  that  they  had  gone  to  a  friend's 
or  agent's  house  for  a  day  or  two,  taking  their  harper  with  them,  and 
leaving  Miss  Bushe  and  Miss  Forde  at  Mount  Panther,  or  else  tbat  **  Mount 
Panther^  was  written  by  mistake. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


582  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

ladies,  who  were  wakened  with  the  music ;  but  the  heat 
was  so  intense,  tho'  I  walked  hke  an  Indian  queen  with 
my  umbrella  over  my  head,  that  after  taking  the  tour  of 
the  garden  with  D.D,  we  all  came  home  in  the  chaise. 
All  this  was  performed  before  our  prayer  hour,  nine 
o'clock ;  after  that  and  breakfast  we  took  to  our  work 
and  book,  and  only  allowed  ourselves  dining-time  and 
an  hour's  composure  after  it,  and  finished  the  day  as  we 
had  begun  it,  at  Mount  Panther,  We  have  just  finished 
part  of  a  novel  entitled  L'Honnete  Homme,  or  the  Man 
of  Honour ;  it  is  a  fine  character,  but  we  have  left  the 
hero  of  the  story  in  80  forlorn  a  condition  that  we  repent 
having  read  it,  as  we  don't  hear  when  the  rest  will  be 
published.  We  are  now  reading  Guadentio  di  Lucca,  an 
entertaining,  well-invented  story,  that  pretends  to  be  true, 
I  have  finished  a  rose,  a  tulip,  an  auricula — with  their 
leaves,  since  my  coming  here,  and  a  dab  of  a  knot  stitch 
that  I  began  three  years  ago.  I  have  read  (or  rather 
heard  read)  The  Man  of  Honour,  Boderick  Bandom, 
and  the  Sieges  of  Drogheda  and  Derry. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Jfrs.  Detves. 

Mount  Panther,  17  Aug.,  1750. 

My  dearest  sister, 

I  have,  I  fear,  given  you  great  uneasiness  by 
concluding  you  were  at  Calwich,  for,  as  you  said  in 
your  last  letter  but  one  that  you  had  fixed  your  time  and 
had  given  my  brother  notice,  I  little  thought  of  your 
being  retarded  by  the  children's  illness ;  mine,  T  thank 
God !  is  over.  I  have  been  two  days  together  to  take 
the  air,  and  am  now  only  cautious  to  prevent  a  return 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MB8.    DELAKY.  583 

of  the  ague.  D.D.  sent  for  Bushe  to  oome  to  me,  but 
she  is  transacting  an  affair  of  great  moment,  on  which 
her  fortune  depends,  that  made  it  impossible  for  her  to 
come.  D.D.'s  uncommon  care  of  me  is  not  to  be 
described ;  it  is  only  such  a  heart  as  yours  that  can 
imagine  what  it  was.  I  shall  not  write  again  till  my 
usual  post  day,  and  shall  enclose  to  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land. Your  letter  directed  to  Rathfryland  came  very 
regularly,  but  now  direct  to  Delville  as  usual,  for  we 
propose  leaving  this  on  the  11th  of  next  month. 


Mrs.  Dewes  to  Lady  Sarah  Cowper. 

Mapleburrough  Green,  August  23rd,  1750. 

How  excessively  good  was  my  dear  Lady  Sarah 
Cowper  to  give  me  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  from 
her  own  kind  hand  that  she  is  pretty  well.  I  am 
very  glad  to  hear  your  Ladyship  has  been  prevailed 
upon  to  go  some  journeys,  change  of  air  being  the 
best  remedy  for  most  disorders  within  the  reach  of 
human  art.  What  affects  our  minds  can  only  be  re* 
moved  by  that  Q-reat  Hand  that  for  wise  and  unsearch- 
able reasons  ordains  our  sorrows,  and  to  Him  I  ardently 
pray  for  your  consolation.  I  have  lately  received  such 
a  miraculous  instance  of  the  power  and  goodness  of 
Providence,  that  my  life  is  not  sufficient  to  shew  forth 
its  thankfulness.  Three  weeks  since  I  was  riding  out 
with  my  eldest  son  for  a  little  air,  he  is  eight  years  old, 
and  has  rode  a  little  horse  several  months,  which  now 
threw  him ;  his  foot  hung  in  the  stirrup,  and  he  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


584  LIFE  AND  OORRESPONDENCE 

dragged  a  hundred  and  forty  yards :  the  footman  took 
him  up/(?r  dead.  He  was  senseless,  but,  thank  Gt)d,  not 
a  broken  bone  or  sprain ;  and  his  bruises  (which  toere 
hqd)  are  now  quite  weU,  and  he  has  not  the  least  incon- 
venience remaining,  but  jumps  and  runs  as  much  and 
as  weU  as  ever,  and  that  is  perpetually !  How  I  kept 
my  senses  and  did  not  fall  oflF  my  horse  I  don't  know. 
The  cares  of  a  nursery  are  incessant ;  my  two  youngest 
children  have  very  bad  hooping-coughs.  I  have  brought 
them  to  this  place  (a  house  of  Mr.  Dewes'  ten  miles  from 
our  constant  dwelling)  to  try  change  of  air,  but  they 
are  not  yet  better ;  I  wish  I  had  more  agreeable  subjects 
to  write  upon. 

My  sister  Delany  has  had  a  bad  feverish  cold,  but 
she  and  the  Dean  both  assure  me  last  post  she  was 
perfectly  well  again.  I  must  now  rejoice  with  your 
Ladyship  in  Lord  Coicpers  happiness — for  happiness  I 
think  must  be  mutual  in  a  married  state,  and  Lady 
Cowper  *  thinks  herself  perfectly  happy ^  expresses  the 
highest  affection  for  my  Lord,  and  is  delighted  with 
Lord  Fordwich  and  Lady  Caroline,  in  short  is  in  love 
with  all  your  family ;  and  as  if  aU  delights  were  reserved 
for  my  happy  cousin  you  have  taken  a  house  just  by 
Cole  Q-reen,  in  which  she  rejoices  very  much  indeed. 
I  believe  she  is  truly  worthy  of  all  she  possesses,  but 
I  can't  help  envying  her  a  pleasure  I  have  been  so  long 


'  Earl  Cowper  married  secondly,  on  the  Ist  of  May,  1750,  Georgiana,  widow 
of  the  Honourable  John  Spencer,  and  daughter  to  John  Earl  Granville.  His 
Ist  wife  was  Henrietta,  youngest  daughter  of  Henry  Earl  of  Grantham,  by 
whom  he  had  two  childi^n,  George  Viscount  Fordwich,  and  Caroline,  who 
married,  1753,  the  Honourable  Henry  Seymour,  nephew  to  the  Duke  of 
Somerset 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  585 

wishing  for — ^having  dear  Lady  Sarah  Cowper  for  her 
neighbour.     Being  with  great  aflfection  and  respect, 
Madam, 

Your  Ladyship's  most  faithluJ 

and  obliged  humble  servant, 

A.  Dewes. 

My  letters  are  directed  as  usual  to  Welsbourne.  Not 
knowing  where  your  Ladyship  is  I  take  the  liberty  of 
inclosing  this  to  my  Lord  Cowper.  I  beg  my  compli- 
ments to  the  Dean  of  Durham  ^  and  Mrs.  Cowper. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Mount  Panther,  24  Aug.,  1750. 

Last  Monday  we  began  again  our  public  days,  and 
shall  have  two  more.  We  propose  leaving  this  place 
on  Tuesday  the  llthSept.  Yesterday  we  dined  at  Mr, 
Bay  ley's ;  they  enquired  much  after  you  and  your  pretty 
son  that  they  are  acquainted  with ;  their  daughter  is 
a  fine  girl,  she  has  begun  on  the  spinnet,  and  promises 
to  have  a  good  hand.  To-morrow  we  dine  at  Mr. 
Price's ;  and  Sunday  the  Dean  preaches  at  one  of  his 
new  churches  (Bright),  and  we  dine  with  his  curate, 
Mr.  Hamilton ;  and  on  Monday  is  our  public  day.  The 
last  we  were  fifteen  in  company.  What  a  surprize.  Dr. 
Meade's  being  blown  up !  I  thought  he  had  had 
more  sense  and  prudence ;  but  your  virtuosi  are 
strangely  infatuated.   Your  journal,  the  account  of  Lady 


^  The  Honourable  Spencer  Ciowper,  Dean  of  Durham,  was  the  second 
son  of  the  Ist  Eart  Cowper.  He  married  Dorothy,  daughter  of  Charles,  2nd 
Viscount  Townshend,  and  died,  s,p.^  25th  March,  1774. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


586  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Luxborough,  your  farm-house,  and  all  matters  relating 
to  you,  entertained  me  extremely ;  and  I  hope  all  m j 
disagreeable  letters  about  my  illness  came  to  you  at 
once,  that  you  may  know  of  my  recovery  as  soon  as  of 
my  being  ill.  Have  you  met  with  the  new  System  of 
Fairerief  It  is  a  small  collection  of  fairy  tales  in 
English,  humorously  told,  with  pretty  sentiments  and 
morals,  and  quite  new ;  but  there  is  a  story  or  two  in 
the  second  volimie  not  quite  equal  to  the  rest — and  a 
little  indelicate.  I  like  "Cornelia*"  very  well;  it  is 
better,  as  you  say,  than  the  common  run  of  novels. 

Now  for  Lady  Luxborough.  I  am  vastly  enter- 
tained at  your  being  acquainted  with  her  in  spite  of 
your  prudence;  but  I  really  see  no  reason  why  her 
acquaintance  is  to  be  declined.  If  she  leads  a  discreet 
life,  and  does  generous  and  charitable  things,  she 
ought  to  be  taken  notice  of,  as  an  encouragement 
to  go  on  in  a  right  path,  and  your  conversation  and 
example  may  be  of  infinite  service  to  her.  She  has 
lively  parts,  is  very  well  bred,  and  knows  the  polite  world, 
and  you  may,  I  think,  divert  yourself  with  her  as  much 
as  you  can,  and  D.D.  says  you  will  only  do  a  meritorious 
thing  in  so  doing.  Dr.  Barber  has  spread  the  fame  of 
your  children  all  over  Dublin,  and  Mary's  hon-mots  are 
the  talk  of  the  town,  and  Bushe  has  abused  me  for  my 
modesty  in  not  blazing  her  perfections  half  enough. 
Did  you  write  me  word  that  our  cousin  Proby'  was  going 

1  Cornelia,  the  Vestal,  a  tragedy,  1750,  by  Henault  (Charles  John  FranciBX 
President  of  the  Court  of  Inquests,  and  Kequests  of  the  Parliament  of  Paris, 
an  eminent  French  writer,  bom  at  Paris,  1685,  died  1771. 

*  John  Proby,  Esq.,  M.P.  for  the  county  of  Huntingdon,  married  Jane 
Leveson,  eldest  daughter  of  John,  1st  Baron  Gk)wer.  Of  this  marriage  there 
were  six  children,  five  sons  and  one  daughter.    The  eldest  son  was  the  Bight 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY,  587 

to  be  married  to  Lady  Aliens  eldest  daughter ?  He 
dined  with  us  at  Gierke's :  Lady  Allen  settles,  at  present, 
£1000  per  ann.,  and  another  at  her  death ;  Mr,  Don- 
nellan's  son  is  married  to  a  Miss  Nixon,  an  heiress.  I 
enclose  you  two  of  Bushe's  last  letters  for  your  amuse- 
ment— full  of  Dublin  chat.  And  now  I  must  conclude, 
having  but  just  time  to  dress.  We  dine  at  Mr,  Price's, 
at  Holly  Mount.  Lady  Luxborough  is  weU  acquainted 
with  Hanover  Square  Montagu's. 


Mn.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Mount  Panther,  7  o'clock,  1  Sept.  1750. 

Last  Sunday  we  set  out  at  nine  from  hence,  and 
arrived  at  Bright  church  (6  miles  off)  at  a  little  after 
eleven.  It  is  placed  on  an  eminence  that  commands 
a  very  extensive  view  of  the  sea,  the  harbour  of  Killough 
full  of  shipping,  mountains,  hills,  and  valleys,  diversified 
with  cattle,  com,  and  bog,  the  solemnity  of  which  last 
(like  a  faded  leaf  in  wort)  makes  the  rest  more  lively  ; 
nothing  was  wanting  to  make  the  prospect  excessively 
beautiftil  but  trees.  The  church  is  that  which  hath 
raised  so  much  rancour  and  malice  in  a  certain  neighbour 
of  ours,  and  which  you  have  had  explained  in  the  letter 
before — (the  discourse  on  tithes)  it  is  not  quite  finished 
within,  but  when  it  is,  will  be  a  pretty,  decent  church. 


Hon.  Sir  John  Probyy  K.B.,  M.P  for  Huntingdonshire,  who  was  created  Baron 
Carysfort,  in  1752.  He  married,  August  27,  1750,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
John,  2nd  Visoount  Allen,  and  coheir  of  her  brother,  John,  3rd  Viscount 
Allen.    Their  son  was  the  Ist  Earl  of  Garysfort. 

1  This  simile  naturally  suggested  itself  to  Mrs.  Delany,  as  the  manner  in 
which  she  represented  faded  leaves  from  nature,  in  worsted  chenille  deyed  in 
the  remarkable  semv-^Ms  of  Autumn  foliage,  was  unriyalled. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


588  LIFE  AND  COREBSPONDENCE 

D.D,  preached,  and  with  as  much  spirit  as  ever  I  heard 
him.  We  were  to  dine  at  his  curate's,  Mr.  Hamilton's, 
half  a  mile  from  the  church  nearer  home.  D.D.  was 
excessively  fatigued  (and  I  hope  it  was  nothing  else) 
with  preaching,  and  could  not  eat  a  morsel,  was  sick 
and  faint,  and  continued  so  all  the  way  home,  hot  and 
feverish,  and  had  a  very  had  night ;  but  I  thank  Gk)d 
he  is  very  well  again  now,  and  at  this  moment  watch- 
ing his  workmen,  who  are  putting  up  new  palisades 
before  the  house.  Wednesday,  being  much  better,  he 
insisted  on  my  going  to  a  fine  strand  about  two  miles 
off,  where  there  are  a  great  many  very  pretiy  shells, 
though  none  curious :  accordingly  I  went  to  satisfy 
him,  and,  had  I  been  then  really  easy  on  his  account 
shoidd  have  been  very  agreeably  amused. 

I  don't  know  whether  I  told  you  that  Miss  Leonargan 
is  with  me,  and  has  been  about  a  fortnight ;  she  is  a 
clergyman's  daughter,  who  is  a  very  sensible  entertain- 
ing man,  an  old  friend  of  D.D.'s.  Mrs.  Leonargan  is  a 
sensible  good  woman — they  have  both  kept  very  good 
company  and  seen  a  good  deal  of  the  world.  This 
young  woman  is  their  only  child;  and  the  greatest 
advantage  she  has  ever  had  has  been  conversing  with 
her  parents.  In  her  appearance  she  is  plain,  but  not 
vulgar ;  her  manner,  from  shyness  and  reserve,  a  little 
awkward  :  she  is  about  27  years  of  age,  and  has,  on 
acquaintance,  very  good  sense,  pretty  sentiments,  loves 
reading,  has  read  a  great  deal,  reads  French  into  English 
as  fluently  as  I  read  English,  is  humble  and  obliging, 
and  very  smart  and  comical  when  she  thinks  she  may 
be  so  without  giving  offence,  and  a  most  tender  and 
dutiful  child.     I  knew  her  a  little  when  I  was  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  589 

North  before,  but  sbe  improves  very  much  on  better  ac- 
quaintance, and  it  is  an  agreeable  circumstances  to  me  to 
have  a  young  woman  in  my  neighborhood  (for  she 
lives  at  Down)  who  is  always  pleased  to  spend  some 
time  with  me  when  convenient,  and  that  I  need  not 
treat  with  much  ceremony ;  I  have  sent  her  this  morning 
to  Down  market  for  me.  Yesterday  morning  I  went 
to  Belville  to  work  a  corner  of  Mrs,  Bay  ley's  carpet; 
they  would  fain  have  kept  me  to  dinner  and  have  sent 
for  the  Dean,  but  I  feared  his  being  out  in  the  evening 
and  made  an  excuse,  and  how  do  you  think  he  served 
me  ?  why,  walked  away  in  the  evening  and  made  them 
a  visit,  while  I  sat  quietly  at  my  work.  To-morrow  we 
go  to  church  at  Downpatrick,  it  being  the  1st  Sunday  in 
the  month,  but  the  Dean  will  not  venture  to  preach ; 
next  week  will  be  a  hurry.  Monday,  our  last  public 
day ;  Tuesday,  I  go  to  Down  to  the  assembly,  and  lie  at 
Mr.  Leonorgan's ;  as  it  would  be  a  mortal  offence  if  I 
did  not  make  my  appearance  once  there;  and  that 
day  the  new  married  couple,  young  Mr.  Forde  and  his 
bride,  come  home,  so  on  Wednesday  I  must  make  my 
compliments  there.  Thursday,  spend  at  Belville,  Fri- 
day, Fordes  dine  here ;  Saturday,  pack  up  and  settle 
household  matter ;  Sunday,  preach,  and  dine  at  Bailee, 
another  new  church,  6  miles  off;  Monday,  finish 
packing ;  Tuesday,  we  shall  hoist  sail  for  fair  Delville. 
Last  post  I  had  a  letter  in  very  good  spirits  from 
my  brother,  though  he  expresses  great  concern  at  his 
disappointment  of  not  seeing  you  at  Calwich ;  indeed  I 
pity  him,^for  I  am  sure  he  feels  more  on  those  occasions 
than  his  taciturn  disposition  will  allow  him  to  express. 
I  have  not  had  a  letter  from  Bulstrode  a  vast  while,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


590  LIFE  AND  OOBRBSPONDENCE 

should  be  very  uneasy  but  that  I  know  Lady  Oxford  has 
been  there,  and  the  Duchess  has  no  time  when  she  is 
in  the  house  with  her. 

I  have  enclosed  you  Mrs.  Lawe's  case,  which  is  faith- 
fully and  well  drawn  up,  and  so  singular  and  barbarous  a 
persecution  that  it  is  worth  your  reading.  I  have  just 
had  a  letter  from  Sally,  with  a  petition  from  Mr.  BaUard 
to  dedicate  his  third  Century  of  Illustrious  Women  to 
me.^  I  confess  it  is  what  I  dislike  extremely,  and  have 
had  a  warm  dispute  with  D.D.  about  it  this  morning, 
but  he  insists  upon  it  that  I  shall  consent,  as  he  thinks 
it  will  mortify  the  man  if  T  refuse ;  I  dare  say  it  would 
not,  and  it  is  much  more  vexatious  to  me  to  consent — 
there  is  an  air  of  vanity  in  it  that  hurts  me. 


Mrs.  Ddomy  to  Mrs,  Vetoes. 

Mount  Panther,  16  Sept.  1750. 

I  was  at  Down  assembly,  and  it  put  me  much  in 
mind  of  the  Gloucester  ones  that  we  used  to  have  before 
Whitfield's  was  the  fashion  \  I  paid  my  compliment,  and 
hope  it  obliged.  I  am  now  in  a  hurry — I  prepared 
you  in  my  last  for  a  short  letter  this.  Yesterday  we 
went  to  Seaford  to  pay  our  compliments  to  the  young 
married  couple,  who  came  home  last  Tuesday;  the 
bride  is  a  handsome  well-behaved  yoimg  woman. 
To-day  we  dine   at  Mr.  Annesley's,   a  mile   off,   to- 


^  "  Memoirs  of  BritiBh  Ladies,  who  have  been  celebrated  for  their  WritingB 
or  Skill  in  the  learned  Languages^  Arts,  and  Soienoes.  By  George  Ballard,  of 
Magdalen  College,  Oxford."  This  work  is  well  executed,  and  quoted  by  Thomas 
Park  in  his  edition  of  Horace  Walpole's  "  Royal  and  Noble  Authors,"  1806. 
Ballaid  was  a  native  of  GomwalL 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  591 

morrow  the  Dean  preaches  at  one  of  his  new  churches 
called  Bailee,  and  we  dine  at  his  agent's,  who  lives 
close  to  the  church.  Monday  packing,  and  company 
dines  here  into  the  bargain,  which  is  a  little  tr&ublesome. 
I  can  get  some  good  thread  for  you — let  me  know 
what  you  would  have — 75,  the  pound. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Bewes, 

Delville,  18  Sept.  1750. 

We  came  home  yesterday  at  7 ;  set  out,  as  we  proposed, 
on  the  11th,  lay  at  Dundalk,  a  tolerable  inn.  Next  day 
got  to  Dunleer,  the  house  where  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton 
lived  when  her  husband  was  alive,  now  inhabited  by 
Dr.  Foster  and  his  lady ;  obliging,  good  sort  of  people, 
ingenious  and  hospitable.  There  we  staid  all  Thursday; 
spent  the  morning  in  going  to  the  seaside,  about 
three  miles  from  Dunleer,  picking  up  pretty,  odd,  sea- 
weed, dined  at  3  in  the  afternoon.  Dr.  Foster  produced 
some  books  of  fine  Italian  prints,  which  were  very  enter- 
taining. On  the  road,  by  way  of  entertainment,  I  r^td 
a  scurrilous,  nonsensical  book,  called  Dr.  Clancy's* 
Memoirea  Delville  looks  sweet.  I  have  walked  all  over 
the  garden.  Orange-trees  thriving,  and  my  deer  fat 
and  well-liking.  This  morning  I  had  a  visit  from  my 
allies ;  all  well,  and  glad  to  get  me  home  again.  Bushe 
can't  come  to  stay  with  me  yet,  not  till  towards  Xmas, 
but  I  hope  she  will  finish  her  aflfairs,  which  are  money 
matters,  sooner  than   that.     Doctor  Barber  was  here 


>  The  Memoirs  of  Michael  Clancy,  M.D.,  containing  his  Observationa  on 
many  Govmtriea  in  Enrope. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


592  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

this  morning ;  he  is  charmed  with  you,  your  hushand, 
and  your  children.  Rupy  Barher  and  his  wife,  and  Mr. 
Parker,  dined  here  to-day. 


Mr9,  Bdany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

DelviUe,  22  Sept.  1750. 

I  am  afraid  my  worthy  and  much  esteemed  Mr. 
Richardson  will  have  reason  to  retract  some  of  the 
kind  things  he  says  of  me.  I  have  not  yet  answered 
his  letter,  for  my  last  illness  has  put  me  so  behind- 
hand in  my  correspondence,  that  I  don't  know  when 
I  shall  pay  my  debts. 

I  am  glad  Sir  Tony  is  in  a  giving  humour :  pray  let 
me  know  what  sort  of  lace  ?  Last  Sunday  Dr.  Barber 
and  his  agreeable,  gentle,  wife  dined  here ;  I  saw  nobody 
else,  except  one.  (What  a  fib  I  was  going  to  tell — ^I 
was  at  church,  and  saw  a  full  congregation ;)  and  in  the 
afternoon  Mr.  Parker  and  his  sister  came,  and  drank 
tea,  and  supped  with  us.  On  Monday  two  Mrs.  Hamil- 
ton's, Bushe,  Miss  Hamilton,  Mr.  Sackville  Hamilton^ 
came  to  breakfast.  As  soon  as  that  was  done,  I  set  them 
all  to  work ;  gave  each  a  dusting-cloth,  brush,  sponge 
and  bowl  of  water,  and  set  them  to  cleaning  my  picture- 
frames.  Bushe  undertook  cleaning  the  pictures,  and  egg- 
ing them  out,  whilst  the  carpenters  and  I  fixed  up  the  shelves 
for  my  books  and  china :  everybody  that  popped  their 
head  in,  was  seized  to  work;  no  idler  was  admitted; 
a  very  merry  working  morning  it  was,  and  my  dressing- 
room  is  very  spruce  and  handsome.  I  have  pulled  my 
old  lustre  to  pieces,  and  am  going  to  make  one  just  like 


Digitized  by 


Google 


*  OP  MRS.  DELANY.  593 

the  Duchess's.  Tuesday  we  dined  at  Mrs.  Forde's,  and 
found  the  good  old  lady  pretty  well.  Wednesday,  dined 
at  my  Mrs.  Hamilton's,  met  by  the  other,  and  L.  B., 
and  spent  the  day  very  agreeably.  Miss  Hamilton  sung 
very  prettily  your  favorite  songs  of  the  Messiah,  accom- 
panied by  her  brother,  Mr.  Sackville  Hamilton,  on  the 
violin :  she  has  a  sweet-toned  voice  and  good  ear,  but 
wants  a  little  management  of  it. 


Mn*  Ddany  to  Bernard  OrantnRe,  Esq.fi(dwick. 

Delville,  22  Sept.  1750. 

1  have  been  in  such  a  hurry  ever  since  I  came  home 
that  I  have  not  had  leisure  to  answer  my  dear  brother's 
kind  letter.  I  have  been  very  well  since  my  leaving  the 
North,  though  I  have  no  reason  to  think  the  place  dis- 
agreed with  me,  as  I  had  not  been  well  some  time  before 
I  went,  but  I  thank  God  it  is  all  over.  The  weather 
is  delightful  at  present.  D.D.  very  busy,  topping 
exuberant  branches,  transplanting,  and  giving  air  to 
his  garden.  The  trees  and  shrubs  are  grown  so  thick 
that  we  are  obliged  to  thin  them ;  I  have  been  as  busy 
within  doors ;  have  hung  my  dressing-room  (which  was 
painted  olive-colour  before)  with  a  dove-colour  flock 
paper,  my  pictures,  books,  china,  placed  as  they  were 
before.  My  room  is  greatly  improved,  and  I  wish  you 
were  here  at  this  instant  to  give  me  your  opinion :  how 
often  does  that  wish  rise  in  my  heart  ?  Mrs.  F.  Hamil- 
ton has  just  finished  a  little  piece  of  flowers  and  butter- 
flies for  Mrs.  H.  Hamilton  that  is  really  exquisite  ;^  they 

^  The  Editor  possesses  some  of  Mrs.  Forth  Hamilton's  works  in  painting  and 
embroidery  which  she  gave  Mrs.  Delany,  which  exceed  any  thing  she  ever  saw 

VOL.  II.  2  Q 


Digitized  by 


Google 


594  LIFE  AND  CX)RRESPONDENCE 

are  a  pretty  set  of  people  that  would  please  you  ex- 
tremely, and  are  sincere  sensible  friends.  Mrs,  Mary 
Forth  is  at  Bristol,  and  has  found  great  benefit  from 
the  waters ;  she  and  our  cousins  are  acquainted,  and 
like  one  another  mightily.  I  hope  you  have,  got  your 
shells?  I  have  had  carpenters,  and  smiths,  and  all 
kinds  of  workmen  with  me,  and  some  waiting  for  me 
now. 

I  am  my  dear  brothers 

Most  affectionate  humble  servant, 
M.  Dblany. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  28  Sept.  1750. 

Temperate  and  pleasant  as  May !  I  have  just  been 
gleaning  my  autumn  fruits — melon,  Jigs,  beury  pears, 
grapes,  filberts  and  tvalnuts.  Walnuts  indeed  are  but 
just  come  in  with  us.  I  loaded  my  basket,  and  filled 
my  hands  with  honeysuckles,  jessamine,  July  flowers, 
and  pippins,  &c.  My  letter  begins  like  one  of  Millar's 
calender  months.  I  pleased  myself  whilst  I  was 
gathering  Flora's  and  Pomona's  gifts,  in  thinking  that 
my  dear  sister  might  be  occupied  in  the  same  way. 
The  garden  was  truly  particularly  pleasant  to  me  this 
day,  not  having  been  in  it  since  Monday  last.  D.D. 
has  not  been  well,  but,  I  thank  Gk>d,  is  this  day  enjoy- 
ing his  plantations.  We  were  to  have  had  a  bresi- 
fast  meeting  of  the  allies  at  Bushe's  on  Monday,  but  was 
forced  to  send  her  an  excuse.      Wednesday  she   and 

of  the  kind,  ancient  or  modern,  for  perfection  of  outline,  light  and  shade,  bril- 
liancy and  delicacy.  She  excelled  equally  in  flowers  and  insects,  which  she 
generally  represented  together. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  595 

Miss  Forde  spent  the  day  here.  Yesterday  morning 
the  two  Hamiltons  and  Miss  Ann,  and  to-day  we  are  to 
have  Mr.  Cavendish  and  Lady  Meade,  two  Miss  Caven- 
dishes, (their  mother  was  one  of  the  Miss  Pines, 
sister  to  Mrs.  Mainwaring,)  Sir  John  Meade  (a  boy), 
Mr.  Mount  his  tutor  (our  old  acquaintance),  and  young 
Cavendish,  who  was  Captain  in  the  rebellion  at  Eton. 
My  house  is  set  out  in  order  for  them,  and  I  shall  not 
be  sorry  when  the  fuss  is  over.  To  regale  and  compose 
me^  the  Hamiltons  have  promised  to  breakfast  with  me 
to-morrow,  and  assist  me  in  sorting  shells,  for  now  I  am 
all  whip  and  spur  to  get  my  lustre  revived.  I  have 
stripped  it  of  every  shell  and  scraped  it  to  the  bone.  I 
have  now  more  choice  of  shells  than  when  I  made  it, 
and  hope  the  second  edition  will  be  more  correct  than 
the  first. 

Such  a  t/oung  woman  as  Lady  Luxborough  was,  can 
never  make  a  tolerable  old  woman,  the  modesty  and  awful 
air  of  age  can  no  more  grace  her  than  the  fragrant 
rose  does  the  bare  rock  and  oozy  befich.  But  though 
she  may  not  be  a  desirable  friend,  she  is  an  acquaintance 
that  may  sometimes  amuse  an  hour  well  enough,  and 
make  a  variety  among  the  actions  of  the  world.  Apropos, 
did  I  tell  you  that  Mr.  Ballard  has  picked  me  out  (a  thing 
unknown  to  him,  but  from  report  of  a  few  partial 
acquaintances)  to  subscribe  his  Third  Century  to.  I  am 
vexed  at  it,  and  positively  refused,  but  D.D.  contradicted 
it,  and  says  it  will  be  using  the  man  ill.  I  hate  the  sort 
of  compliments  an  author  thinks  himself  obliged  to  pay 
the  person  he  dedicates  to ;  and  the  poor  man  will  be 
distressed,  for  he  will  think  himself  under  a  necessity  to 
say  fine  things ;  so  to  ease  him  of  farther  trouble,  and 
myself  some   confusion,  I  insist  on  your  sending  the 

2q2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


596  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

enclosed  dedication  to  him,  for  I  absolutely  shall  take  it 
ill  of  him  if  he  says  anything  in  a  higher  strain ;  I 
don't  know  how  to  direct  to  him,  or  I  should  have  sent 
it  directly  to  him  ;  I  am  quite  serious,  and  believe  you 
will  enter  into  my  feelings  about  it 

[EnclomL] 
Madam, 

I  am  very  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  indul- 
gence in  giving,  me  leave  to  dedicate  part  of  this  work 
to  you  ;  and  as  I  am  informed  you  were  resolved  against 
addresses  of  this  nature,  I  will  not  tire  you  with 
encomiums  on  your  family,  your  person,  or  your  qualifi- 
cations, as  my  intention  in  publishing  this  book  is  to 
raise  the  mind  above  the  common  concerns  of  this 
world ;  and  I  hope  the  examples  here  set  before  you  will 
animate  you  to  great  and  good  actions,  and  then  your 
obligation  to  me  will  be,  at  least,  equal  to  mine  to 
you. 

I  am,  &c.,  &c. 

I  wish  you  could  write  to  him  and  tell  him  you 
hear  he  intends  a  dedication,  and  should  be  obliged 
to  him  for  a  sight  of  it,  and  if  it  is  in  the  conmion 
style  of  panegyrick,  send  him  a  copy  of  this,  and  say 
/  desired  no  other  sort  of  dedication  might  be  pubUshed. 

I  have  not  yet  seen  Mrs.  Dillon  ;  she  is  gone  to  make 
a  visit  to  her  brother  Preston :  when  I  see  her  I  shall 
most  certainly  remember  you ;  I  hope  the  Duke  and 
Duchess  of  Beaufort  will  make  you  a  visit  at  Wels- 
boume ;  they  are  pretty  people ;  and  the  Duchess  and 
I  are  very  well  acquainted. 

You  are  much  in  the  right  to  choose  the  rock  for  our 
Pauline,  instead  of  the  ensnaring  quicksand.    I  hope  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  597 

happy  medium  may  be  found  for  her,  and  that  gen- 
tleness of  disposition,  tender  sentiments,  and  warm 
affections,  will  be  so  tempered  and  guarded  by  sound 
judgment  and  proper  fortitude,  as  to  make  her  act  with 
honour  to  herself  and  family. 

Saturday  morning. 

My  company  came — not  all  that  I  expected;  and 
when  they  were  gone  D.D.  and  I  enjoyed  ^  tete-a-tite 
evening.  Sir  J.  Meade  is  "heir  to  a  great  estate,  a  child  of 
six  years  old,  most  unreasonably  indulged — a  fine  sensible 
boy,  but  under  no  sort  of  command.  I  had  20  frights 
.  for  my  china,  shells  and  books  :  his  little  fingers  seized 
everything  with  such  impetuosity  that  I  was  ready  to 
box  him ;  had  I  been  his  mama  I  should  have  been 
m^st  heartily  ashamed  of  him.  With  pleasure  I  recol- 
lected that  my  little  nephews  would  have  been  much 
scandalised  at  his  behaviour,  and  wished  them  here  to 
set  him  a  good  example.  His  sister,  a  girl  about  ten,  is 
already  a  fine  affected  lady,  knows  everything,  and  pre- 
tends to  ridicule,  such  airs !  Well,  thought  I,  my  Pauline 
will  not  be  such  a  forward,  pert  thing !  that's  my  com- 
fort ! 

Lady  Meade  is  a  well-behaved,  handsome  Woman, 
not  bred  up  with  ekgant  politeness^  but  civile  and  does  not 
want  for  understanding  :  so  is  it  not  amazing  she  can- 
not see  the  wrong  behaviour  of  her  children,  and  how 
insupportably  troublesome  they  are?  Mr.  Mount  is 
better,  and  extremely  well  treated  by  Mr.  Cavendish 
and  Lady  Meade,  but  his  task  with  the  young  gentleman 
is  a  difficult  one,  though  he  seems  to  understand  the 
sort  of  charge  he  has  undertaken  very  well.  Mrs.  F. 
Hamilton,  her  son  and  daughter,  walked  from  Dublin 
this  morning,  and  we  have  been  this  hour  past  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


598  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

garden ;  she  never  will  come  into  the  house  till  the  hell 
rings  for  prayers,  for  fear  of  interrvpting  my  affairs.  As 
soon  as  breakfast  is  over,  to  work  we  shall  go. 

The  excellent  dedication  which  Mis.  Delany  wiote  for  Ballaid 
to  herself  was  not  adopted.  The  following  is  his  compo6iti(xi, 
which  proves  that  Mrs.  Dewes's  intervention  was  unsuccessful, 
or  that  she  declined  interference. 

'*  To  Mrs.  i)elan7,  the  truest  judge  and  brightest  pattern  of  all 
the  accomplishments  which  adorn  her  sex,  these  Memoirs  of 
Learned  Ladies  in  the  17th  and  18  th  centuries  are  most  humbly 
inscribed  by  her  obedient  servant,  George  Ballard/' 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Detves. 

DelviUe,  6  Oct  1750. 

I  am  now  as  deeply  engaged  with  "  Clarissa  "  as  when 
I  first  was  acquainted  with  her,  and  admire  her  more 
and  more;  I  am  astonished  at  the  author:  his  in- 
vention, his  fine  sentiments,  strong  sense-,  lively  wit, 
and  above  all  his  exalted  piety  and  ea:cellerU  design  in  the 
whole.  I  find  many  beauties  escaped  me  in  my  first 
reading ;  I  was  so  much  interested  and  run  away  with 
by  the  story,  that  I  did  not  give  due  attention  to  many 
delightful  passages.  I  am  just  got  to  her  triumph  after 
his  villany  :  how  poor,  and  despicable  a  figure  does  he 
make  upon  their  first  meeting,  and  how  noble  and 
angelic  is  her  appearance  and  behaviour !  The  contrast 
of  flagrant  guilt  and  injured  though  unconquered  in- 
nocence is  most  judiciously  and  beautifuUy  drawn. 
My  heart  was  almost  broke  with  her  frenzy,  but  that 
scene  afterwards  composed  and  revived  my  spirits,  and 
made  me  almost  rejoice  in  her  distress;  this,  and 
making  up  my  shell-lustre,  has  taken  up  every  home 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  599 

hour  that  has  not  been  interrupted  by  company ;  I  will 
not  lay  by  either  till  I  have  finished  them.  Last  Monday 
I  staid  at  home  and  gave  fuU  indulgence  to  my  industry. 
On  Tuesday,  went  to  Dublin  to  see  Mrs.  H.  Hamilton 
(received  the  enclosed  for  Court)  and  Bushe,  and  found 
the  latter  unengaged,  and  brought  her  home  with  me. 
Dined  the  next  day  together  at  Mrs.  Forde's.  Thursday, 
made  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton  a  morning  visit,  and  designed 
another  to  my  Kttle  Tommy  Greene ;  met  him  on  the 
road  coming  to  me ;  his  father  has  been  at  the  Bath,  and 
is  returning,  but  I  hear  little  the  better  for  it,  for  which 
I  am  much  concerned :  he  is  a  worthy  man  and  will 
be  a  great  loss  to  his  pretty  boy.  Yesterday  Mrs.  F. 
Hamilton  and  her  daughter  walked  here  to  breakfast ; 
Master  Hamilton  was  to  have  been  of  the  party,  and 
has  great  joy  in  coming  here,  but  he  had  not  performed 
his  task  well,  so  she  left  him  at  home. 

I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  Mrs.  Montagu,  she  in- 
forms  me  Lord  North*  is  made  governor  to  Prince 
George,  with  a  salary  of  £1000  a-year,  and  continued 
Lord  of  the  Bedchamber  to  the  Prince  of  Wales :  she 
desires  me  not  to  speak  of  it  till  it  is  public,  which  I 
suppose  it  will  be  before  this  salutes  you.  I  am  extremely 
glad  of  this  piece  of  news ;  so  excellent  and  so  agreeable 
a  man  must  be  of  infinite  service  to  -any  youth  that  is 
capable  of  receiving  good  from  precept  and  example. 
It  was  oflFered,  and  indeed  pressed  upon  him ;  it  must 
engross  his  time  very  much,  and  keep  him  from  his 
favourite  Wroxton.  I  believe  the  matrimonial  report  is 
over,  I  have  not  heard  anything  of  it  lately. 


1  Lord  North  and  Guildfoid  was  appointed  in  1760,  tutor  to  Prince  George, 
eldest  son  of  Frederic  Prince  of  Wales,  afterwards  George  111. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


600  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Mr.  L/s  case  was  not  drawn  up  by  the  Dean — he  saw 
and  approved  the  beginning  of  it  before  he  went  to 
the  North  :  there  are  a  few  things  in  the  latter  part  of 
it  that,  if  he  had  time,  he  would  have  pointed  out  to  be 
altered  I  believe.  The  poor  man  is  unfortunate,  and 
irreparably  hurt  in  his  character,  though  people  who 
know  him  best  seem  well  assured  of  his  innocence : 
'tis  well  that  clean  hands  and  a  pure  heart  can  give  us 
consolation  under  such  oppressions. — As  Clarissa  says ; 
" Heo^ven punishes  the  bad,  ^nd proves  the  best'* 

Mrs,  Dillon  not  yet  come  to  town.  Lord  Donneraile*  has 
left  Miss  St.  Leger,  (commonly  called  Bellinger,)  near  an 
hundred  thousand  pounds,  to  confirm  the  world  that 
their  censures  were  not  without  foundation.  I  heard 
that  Lady  Donneraile  said  she  would  not  go  into 
mourning  for  her  Lord,  but  I  hear  she  has. 

I  am  going  to  make  a  very  comfortable  closet; — to 
have  a  dresser,,  and  all  manner  of  working  tools,  to  keep 
all  my  stores  for  painting,  carving,  gilding,  &c. ;  for  my 
own  room  is  now  so  clean  and  pretty  that  I  cannot 
suffer  it  to  be  strewed  with  litter,  only  books  and  work, 
and  the  closet  belonging  to  it  to  be  given  up  to  prints, 
drawings,  and  my  collection  of  fossils,  petrifactions, 
and  minerals.  I  have  not  set  them  in  order  yet ;  a  great 
work  it  will  be,  but  when  done  very  comfortable. 
There  is  to  my  working  closet  a  pleasant  window  that 
overlooks  all  the  garden,  it  faces  the  east,  is  always  dry 
and  warm.     In  the  middle  of  the  closet  a  deep  nitch 


I  Arthur  Mohun,  3rd  Viscount  Doneraile,  bom  7th  August,  1718.  Hd 
married  first,  3rd  April,  1738,  Mary,  daughter  of  Anthony  Shepherd,  Esq., 
and  secondly,  3i-d  June,  1739,  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Viscount  Massa- 
reene,  but  died  s.p.,  in  1749,  when  the  honours  reverted  to  his  uncle,  Hayes, 
4th  Viscount. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  601 

with  shelves,  where  I  shall  put  whatever  china  I  think 
too  good  for  common  use,  but  trifling  and  insignificant 
is  my  storeroom  to  what  yours  is !  Mine  fit-s  only  an 
idle  mind  that  wants  amusement ;  yours  serves  either 
to  supply  your  hospitable  table,  or  gives  cordial  and 
healing  medicines  to  the  poor  and  the  sick.  Your  mind 
is  ever  turned  to  help,  relieve,  and  bless  your  neighbours 
and  acquaintance ;  whilst  mine,  I  fear  (however  I  may 
sometimes  flatter  myself  that  I  have  a  contrary  disposi- 
tion), is  too  much  jiUed  with  amusements  of  no  real 
estimation ;  and  when  people  commend  any  of  my  per- 
formances I  feel  a  consciousness  that  my  time  might 
have  been  better  employed. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Bewes, 

Delville,  13  Oct.,  1750. 

I  received  the  extraordinary  sermon,  and  had  not 
seen  it  before,  though  printed  in  Dublin ;  it  is  a  strange, 
mad  performance,  and  I  am  sorry  a  sober  clergyman  like 
Dr.  T.  should  provoke  the  poor  wretch  to  treat  him 
so  ill ;  but  a  madman's  satire  goes  for  little ;  I  wonder 
his  friends  don't  confine  him,  if  they  can.  I  hope 
as  your  neighbours  S.  are  grown  so  touchy,  that  they 
will  quarrel  with  their  situation,  and  r^m(?w— ^unsociable, 
idle,  inquisitive,  near  neighbours  ^are  intolerable.  The 
good  peace-maker  is  always  ready  to  promote  the 
happiness  of  his  friends,  but  natures  are  not  to  be 
altered ;  a  sullen,  surly,  captious  man,  and  his  wife, 
though  perhaps  not  cast  in  the  same  mould,  yet  not 
qualified  to  temper  those  defects,  will  ever  be  ready  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


602  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

receive  aflfronts,  and  return  them ;  what  a  misery  to 
themselves  and  others  are  such  tempers !  I  am  very 
happy  that  I  have  no  dangling  neighbours.  I  may  be 
thought  too  reserved  in  our  village,  but  I  choose  rather 
to  be  censured  for  that,  than  expose  myself  to  the  inter- 
ruption and  tittle-tattle  of  a  country  neighbourhood  : 
my  acquaintance  is  large  in  Dublin,  and  I  never  ivant 
company. 

D.D.,  I  thank  God,  is  very  well,  and  busy.  He 
has  laid  me  in  such  a  stock  of  billeting,  and  fire-fuel 
out  of  his  own  garden,  that  I  shall  not,  I  believe,  want 
coals  for  the  whole  winter,  except  for  the  kitchen,  house- 
keeper's room,  and  hall.  I  have  now  eighteen  head  of 
deer ;  we  killed  two  bucks  this  year,  that  proved  as  fine 
venison  for  fat  and  taste  as  could  be  eaten  :  I  own  it  is 
disagreeable  to  me  to  have  them  killed,  but  it  is  unavoid- 
able, they  increase  so  fast.  I  am  truly  grieved  for 
Mrs.  Buncombe,  for  though  she  is  of  an  age  that  her 
friends  cannot  hope  she  would  continue  long  amongst 
them,  it  is  sad  to  think  of  the  painful  course,  in  all 
probability,  she  will  go  through ;  I  shall  be  glad  to 
know  what  Mr.  Pye  thinks  of  her.  Miss  Forth  is 
determined  to  stay  the  winter  at  Bath,  and  take  another 
season  of  Bristol  before  she  returns  home ;  all  her 
friends  here  made  it  their  request  to  her,  I  wish 
before  she  returns  she  would  spend  a  week  or  so  with 
you ;  she  would  give  you  great  pleasure — s.  She  has 
a  most  exalted  mind,  few  men  have  mch  fortitudey  and  no 
tvoman  can  have  more  tenderness. 

I  have  all  this  week  worked  most  industriously  at 
my  lustre ;  two  mornings  more  will  finish  the  work, 
Mrs,  Hamilton  (of  Usher's  Q.)  has  began  an  imitation  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS.  DELANY.  603 

carving  with  shells  and  pasteboard,  to  be  fixed  on  the 
ceiling  to  hide  the  pulley,  and  for  the  line  to  come 
through  that  holds  the  lustre,  it  cannot  be  finished  in  a 
day,  and  I  shall  endeavour  to  prevail  on  her  to  spend 
some  time  with  me  here.  Bushe  is  still  detained  in 
Dublin  on  business :  my  house  has  not  been  ready  till 
now  for  company :  I  stripped  it  of  many  necessaries 
when  I  went  to  the  North,  and  have  but  just  recruited. 
It  is  well  my  good  Dean  has  his  garden  to  relax  and 
relieve  his  spirits,  for  now  they  are  much  turmoiled 
with  his  Tennison  lawsuit  ;^  it  is  to  come  on  next  term, 
he  prefers  his  cross  bill  in  a  few  days. 

I  am  going  on  with  "  Clarissa,"  I  thought  I  could 
have  read  it  a  second  time  without  being  greatly 
affected,  but  it  is  impossible.  The  distress  is  wrought  up 
so  naturally,  and  there  are  such  strokes  of  generosity  in 
Clarissa's  character,  and  such  tenderness  and  delicacy 
in  the  friendship  between  her  and  Anna,  that  quite 
overcome  me ;  I  am  now  at  her  letter  of  reproof  to 
Miss  How  for  speaking  ill  of  her  friends,  page  230, 
first  edition. 

I  believe  Donnellan  is  removed  by  this  time  to 
Hanover  Square ;  she  says  her  mother  declines  very  fast. 
I  am  in  pain  for  our  dear  Bell,*  in  case  there  is  a  break- 
ing up  of  that  family.  I  don't  think  she  would  choose  to 
come  to  Ireland,  or  that  Don.  would  care  to  engage  her 
to  settle  with  her,  and  it  is  what  I  could  not  wish  her 
to  do,  as  I  have  such  a  regard  for  her,  and  her  interests, 
that  I  cannot  help  looking  forward  fcrr  her,  and  having 

1  This  lawsuit  which  has  only  been  once  or  twice  slightly  alluded  to  before, 
lasted  for  years,  and  caused  great  anxiety  and  expense,  in  consequence  of  a 
claim  upon  the  Dean  of  Down,  by  relations  of  his  first  wife. 

■  Miss  Sutton. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


004  LIFE  AND  (CORRESPONDENCE 

an  anxiety  for  her  welfare.  The  last  private  conversation 
I  had  with  her  dear  mother^  has  made  a  deep  impres- 
sion ;  therein  she  expressed  her  anxious  desire  of  seeing 
her  well  settled,  and  bespeaking  my  friendship  for  her 
daughter,  and  as  long  as  I  live,  she  shall  have  it,  happy 
could  I  be  of  any  real  use  to  her. 

The  day  is  so  fine  now,  that  I  must  take  a  run  into 
the  garden,  where  I  have  hardly  been  this  week  past, 
the  weather  has  been  so  stormy.  Mr.  Greene  is  come, 
not  better  in  his  health.  I  went  to  town  to  see  Bushe, 
she  was  gone  out  with  Lady  Austin^  to  take  the  air,  and 
spend  the  day.  From  her  I  went  to  my  Mrs.  Hamilton, 
intending  her  only  a  morning  visit,  but  D.D.  was  with 
lawyers,  and  sent  me  word  he  was  obliged  to  stay  with 
them  till  even,  so  I  settled  myself  down  for  the  day 
very  comfortably  with  Mrs.  Hamilton. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,  20  Oct.,  1750. 

1  have  worked  like  a  dragon  this  week  at  my 
lustre,  and  completed  it  on  Thursday.  I  am  now  glad 
the  old  one  was  destroyed — this  I  think  prettier,  D.D. 
calls  it  the  Phoenix :  it  was  a  vast  work,  every  shell 
dried  and  sorted,  and  nobody  assisted  me,  but  Mrs- 
Hamilton  one  morning  made  some  of  the  flowers.  To- 
day Mrs.  F.  Hamilton '  and  her  son  and  daughter  come 


'  This  is  the  only  allusion  to  the  death  of  Lady  Sunderland,  which  must  have 
occurred  when  Mrs.  Delany  was  in  England — ^the  date  the  Editor  has  failed  to 
discover,  hut  her  sister,  Elizaheth  Tichhome  died  9th  Decemher,  1762. 

*  Sir  Robert  Austen,  M.P.  for  New  Romney,  in  Kent,  married,  in  Novem- 
ber, 1738,  Rachel,  daughter  of  Sir  Francis  Dashwood,  Bart. 

"  This  was  Mrs.  Forth  Hamilton,  horn  Dorothea  Forth,  and  married  to  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  605 

to  me  to  stay  some  time,  and  she  is  to  earn  her  bread 
here,  for  she  has  undertaken  an  imitation  of  carving 
for  the  ceiling  where  the  pulley  is  to  be  fastened.  Now 
for  the  journal ;  last  Monday  we  dined  by  invitation  at 
Lord  Grandison's ;  they  are  in  high  joy  and  spirits. 
The  little  Mason  is  a  fine  thriving  child,  and  I  hope 
will  live.  Bushe  met  me  there,  and  there  was  a  Mrs. 
Wogan,  ^  sister  to  Lord  Kilmare,  I  believe  bred  abroad, 
a  Roman  Catholic  ;  she  is  one  of  the  largest  women  of 
her  age  that  I  ever  saw ;  she  looks  about  30,  but  has  a 
charming  sweet  face.  She  gave  me  an  account  of  part 
of  her  brother's  estate  in  the  province  of  Munster,  the 
islands  of  Killarney,  which  are  covered  with  bays, 
myrtles  and  arbutus  trees ;  the  echoes  are  so  remark- 
able among  the  rocks  in  that  river,  that  people  every 
year  go  there  to  try  them,  and  if  you  fire  a  gun,  the 
echoes  return  the  sound  one  after  another  like  the  going 
off  of  loud  thunder  ;  they  say  one  can  have  no  notion  of 
the  effect  of  music  there,  such  as  trumpets,  French 
horns  and  hautboys.  I  am  very  desirous  of  seeing  this 
enchanted  place^  but  it  lies  entirely  out  of  my  way. 
Tuesday  I  staid  at  home,  worked  hard  in  the  morning, 
and  had  no  interruptions — that  was  comfortable.  Wed- 
nesday, went  in  the  evening  to  Dublin  to  the  Phil- 
harmonic concert.  We  made  four  visits  on  our  way 
to  the  concert — Lady  Roos,  Mrs.  Fitzmorris,  Lady 
Arabella    Denny   (found    her    at    home)   and    Lady 


Honourable  Francis  Hamilton,  a  younger  son  of  James,  6th  Earl  of  Aberoom. 
litis  was  the  same  lady  who  painted  and  embroidered  flowers  and  insects  from 
nature  so  wonderfully. 

'  Helen,  daughter  of  Valentine  Browne,  3rd  Viscount  Eenmare,  and  sister 
of  Thomas,  4th  Viscount,  married  John  Wogan,  Esq. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


606  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Knapton,  *  (Lady  Vesey  that  was),  then  called  in  Anne 
Street,  drank  tea  with  my  Mrs.  Hamilton,  and  carried 
her  and  her  daughter  Anne  with  ns  to  the  concert. 
Was  not  that  sprightly  doing"?  Came  hoine  safe :  D.D. 
sent  Rupy  Barber  for  my  guard,  and  at  home  by  ten 
o'  the  clock.  Thursday  the  Bishop  of  Kildare  *  (Fletcher 
by  name),  his  sister,  Dr.  Ledwytche  and  his  lady,  and 
Mr.  G-reene  dined  here.  I  was  in  the  morning  so  eager 
at  my  work  that  half  my  company  came  before  I  had 
begun  to  dress,  but  it  was  to  put  on  the  jmishing  sheU 
that  made  me  so  earnest,  and  I  shewed  them  my  work 
as  my  excuse.  Yesterday,  cold  as  it  was,  we  set  out  in 
our  chaise,  D.D.  and  I,  and  whisked  away  to  Lucan  to 
breakfast  with  the  Veseys ;  it  was  clear  and  pleasant, 
and  the  autumn  scene  rich  and  beautiful,  and  in  no 
place  it  appears  with  more  beauty  than  at  Lucan — ^the 
banks  of  the  river  being  covered  with  wood.  We  got 
home  half  an  hour  after  3. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  27  Oct.  1750. 

I  am  glad  your  works  go  on  so  well,  and  am  sorry 
I  have  no  knotting  of  the  sort  you  want  done.  I 
cannot  promise  too  much  for  you  till  I  have  finished 
a  plain  fringe  I  am  knotting  to  trim  a  new  blue  and 
white  linen  bed^  I  have  just  put  up ;  as  soon  as  that 

»  Sir  John  Denny  Vesey  was  created  Baron  Knapton,  10th  April,  1750. 
Ho  married  in  1732,  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  William  Brownlow,  Esq.,  and 
died  25th  July,  1761,  when  he  was  succeeded  by  his  son,  Thomas,  who  was 
created  in  1776,  Viscount  de  Vescl 

*  Dr.  Thomas  Fletcher,  Bishop  of  Dromore,  was  translated  to  the  Bishopric 
of  Kildare  in  1745. 

>  The  Editor  has  now  in  her  possession  a  set  of  oovers  for  chairs  made  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  607 

is  finished  I  will  do  some  sugar-plum  for  you ;  but  I 
fear  you  will  want  it  before  I  can  do  any  quantity  :  let 
me  know,  and  mine  may  lie  by  till  yours  is  done,  and 
send  me  the  sized  knotting  you  want ;  I  have  a  good 
knotting  friend  also  that  I  can  employ  I  believe  for  you. 
I  am  sorry  what  you  meant  a  friendly  meeting  proved  a 
sullen  one ;  the  little  mean  tiffs  and  affronts  given  and 
taken  between  people  that  have  professed  a  friendship 
for  one  another  is  a  disgrace  to  friendship,  let  them  be 
called  intimates,  but  not  friends.  True  friendship  can- 
not be  tainted  by  low  suspicums^  and  the  train  of  ills 
that  attends  it,  but  is  generous,  open,  candid,  and  deli- 
cate j  never  listens  to  malicious  insinuations,  nor  believes 
anything  to  the  prejudice  of  tender  aflfection  mutually 
professed^  not  judging  by  others,  but  by  their  own  ob- 
servation, and  ever  cautious  of  yielding  to  that  with- 
out such  manifest  reason  as  cannot  be  resisted,  I 
am  now  almost  frozen  by  the  fireside,  but  the  weather 
though  sharp  is  clear.  I  am  sorry  your  garden  suffered 
so  much  in  your  absence,  it  is  the  fate  of  all  gardens.  I 


linen  of  the  most  brilliant  dark  blue,  which  ahe  has  never  been  able  to  match. 
They  are  bordered  with  a  beautiful  pattern  by  Mrs.  Delany,  of  oak  leaves  cut 
out  in  white  linen  and  tacked  down  with  different  sorts  of  white  knotting, 
which  also  forms  the  veining  and  stalks.  There  are  constant  allusions  in  these 
letters  to  sending  thread  for  knotting,  and  to  "  sugar-plum  knotting,"  which 
was  used  for  the  most  ornamented  parts,  being  highly  embossed.  Mrs.  Delany 
and  her  sister  were  in  the  habit  of  using  their  knotting  shuttles,  (as  was  the 
custom  of  thu  time,)  at  those  periods  of  relaxation  when  the  German  ladies 
use  their  knitting  needles,  and  the  English  ladies  do  nothing ;  and  it  is  almost 
incredible  the  quantity  of  knotting  in  various  patterns  and  colours  which  was 
left  by  BCrs.  Delany,  and  which  still  exist,  being  the  remains  of  the  produce 
of  tea-table  leisure  hours,  although  such  a  large  supply  was  required  for  the 
works  which  she  completed  in  this  peculiar  style.  Her  favourite  colour  for 
the  wall  of  a  room  or  for  furniture,  was  blue  in  various  shades,  but  either  dark 
and  hrighi  or  sky  blue. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


608  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

have  not  indeed  reason  to  complain,  ours  was  well 
taken  care  of,  and  is  now  very  pleasant,  though  shifting 
off  its  summer  ornaments.  My  not  going  into  the  garden 
was  owing  to  the  bad  weather,  or  busy  works  within 
doors.  My  lustre  is  finished,  and  Mrs,  Hamilton  very 
diligent  in  making  the  ornament  which  is  to  hide  the 
pulley ;  as  soon  as  that  is  done  it  is  to  be  put  up,  and  then 
I  shall  take  painting  in  hand.  Lady  M.  is  vutgar  and 
proud,  and  thinks  that  the  noise  which  pleases  her  may 
very  well  be  suffered  by  other  people :  Mr.  M.  called 
here  last  Thursday ;  he  is  pretty  well,  and  always  desires 
his  particular  compliments  to  you.  I  am  glad  my 
Pauline  so  soon  made  her  peace  with  you,  I  hope  she 
will  very  early  have  such  a  fear  of  distressing  you,  as 
will  make  her  careful  of  her  behaviour.  The  awe  that 
proceeds  from  love^  as  the  heart  is  concerned,  can  never 
fail ;  but  that  which  is  raised  only  by  the  fear  of 
punishment  will  give  way  when  the  spirits  are  high 
and  they  are  wound  up  to  a  frantic  eagerness  of  doing 
what  they  have  in  view  for  their  present  pleasure.  Is 
not  that  too  often  seen  in  human  life  ?  where  people 
are  engaged  in  an  unprincipled  way  of  living,  they 
gratify  themselves  though  at  the  expense  of  their  best 
hopes  of  hereafter,  but  the  true,  well-disposed  Xtians, 
that  love  as  well  as  fear,  though  subject  to  errors  and 
frequently  guilty,  return,  and  repent,  with  grief  that 
they  ever  offended. 

Well,  I  can*t  help  it,  but  I  wish  Mr.  Ballard  had  not 
thought  of  honouring  me  with  a  dedication.  I  have  not 
vanity,  nor  merit  of  any  kind  suflScient  to  be  pleased  with 
or  worthy  of  such  a  distinction.  I  long  to  have  an  accoxmt 
of  Sir  Tony's  present  of  old  clothes So — a  violent  rap 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY;  609 

at  the  door :  vexatious !  who  can  it  be  ?  (Such  cold 
weather  might  keep  them  at  home).  Who  should  it  be 
but  a  mad  Councellor  Trench,  who  we  are  always  denied 
to,  but  my  footman,  not  knowing  him,  let  him  in,  and  put 
me  in  a  sad  flutter.  I  have  made  my  escape  into  Mrs. 
Hamilton's  room,  and  D.D.  has  taken  him  into  the 
garden  to  set  me  at  liberty.  I  thank  you  for  your 
account  of  Mrs.  M's  ball ;  where  there  is  so  large  a  com- 
pany, it  is  impossible  every  one  should  be  matched  to 
her  mind,  especially  where  the  partner  is  of  more  conse- 
quence than  the  dancing.  I  wonder  the  Duke  and  Duchess 
of  B.  did  not  return  their  visits,  though  it  might  happen 
they  had  more  to  return  than  their  time  would  serve 
for,  but  if  they  could  not  do  all,  they  could  not  properly 
do  any.  I  bless  God,  my  dearest  sister,  that  the  earth- 
quake^ was  not  felt  in  Warwickshire,  and  that  no 
damage  has  been  done  where  it  was  felt ;  surely  these 
frequent  shocks  are  meant  as  warnings  for  people  to  re- 
collect themselves.  Happy  for  those  who  will  consider 
them  in  that  light :  happy  every  awakening  to  our  duty 
and  to  a  sense  of  the  infinite  mercies  of  God,  and  of  our 
own  great  unworthiness ! 

Have  I  not  mentioned  Mrs.  Dillon's  distress  to  you  ? 
but  you  cannot  be  a  stranger  to  the  death  of  Mrs. 
Preston,  her  sister,  who  went  to  Bristol  to  Mr.  Pye, 
and  after  having  taken  some  of  his  medicines,  wrote 
word  to  her  husband  and  sister  that  she  was  surprisingly 
well  ?  the  next  account  was,  that  of  her  death ;  a  great 
shock  to  all  her  family  and  her  friends ;  she  is  truly 


On  Sunday,  September  30th,  1750,  a  violent  shock  of  an  earthquake  was 
felt  in  Northamptonshire,  T^icestershire,  and  Lincolnshire. 

VOL.  II.  2  R 


Digitized  by 


Google 


610  LIFE  AND  00BRE8P0NDENCE 

a  great  loss,  as  she  was  an  excellent  woman,  and  very 
agreeable.  Poor  Bushe  is  in  great  grief — she  was  a 
sincere  and  useful  friend  to  her.  She  stays  in  town  to 
comfort  some  that  are  more  nearly  concerned,  but  has 
not  spirits  for  such  an  undertaking,  and  I  will  get  her 
liere  as  soon  as  possible.  I  am  very  happy  in  having 
Mrs.  F.  Hamilton  with  me,  her  sprightly  good  humour, 
and  ingenious  works,  make  the  day  pass  very  agreeably. 
Yesterday  evening  we  went  to  a  concert  to  hear  a  new 
French  fiddler,  Morella  by  name,  he  has  a  particularly 
fine  execution,  plays  with  great  ease  and  prettiness,  but 
as  it  was  all  nonsense  music  I  am  not  sure  I  shall  like 
his  taste,  till  I  hear  him  play  music  of  consequence ;  and  I 
believe,  on  the  whole,  he  has  too  many  tricks  to  please  me 
often.  Now  we  are  going  to  work  hard  till  dinner, 
and  shall  take  it  up  as  soon  as  dinner  is  over,  for  we  are 
impatient  to  finish.  I  should  have  written  more  had 
not  the  mad  Councillor  come  in. 


Mrs,  Delany  to  Mrs,  Detves. 

Delville,  8th  Nov.  1750. 

I  don't  approve  of  your  walking  so  far  as  Loxley  and 
back  again  before  dinner ;  such  long  walks  never  agreed 
.with  you,  my  dearest  sister,  and  I  wish  you  would  not 
try  your  strength  to  the  utmost :  own  the  truth — had 
you  not  a  headache  next  day  ?  I  am  glad  poor  Miss 
Nanny  Viney  is  so  happy  as  to  be  with  you,  but  much 
concerned  that  Miss  Yiney's  hoarseness  continues,  it  is  a 
pity,  had  it  no  other  effect,  that  her  agreeable  voice  8hou\d 
be  hurt.     I  have  received  an  excellent  Berkeley  cheese, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MBS  DBLANY.  611 

who  am  I  indebted  to  for  it?  I  owe  Mrs.  Viney  for  a 
Frogmill  cheese  I  bespoke  when  last  in  Gloucester.  I 
hope,  ague  jits  are  over  now,  and  that  yon,  and  the  Dew 
drops  are  all  in  perfect  good  health. 

I  don't  know  whether  Mrs.  Richardson  is  a  proper 
person  to  find  a  servant  for  you  ;  she  is  a  retired  quiet 
sort  of  woman,  who  I  believe  cannot  have  had  any  op- 
portunity of  knowing  of  a  suitable  servant  of  that  sort. 

I  am  a  little  impatient  to  know  what  treasures  Sir 
Ant.  W.'s  box  contains.  I  suppose  the  clothes  are 
new,  though  made  up,  and  it  would  be  a  mortal  offence  \jo 
him  were  you  to  give  them  away !  I  was  much  diverted 
with  Pauline's  account  of  Lady  Luxborough.  I  have 
not  yet  seen  Mrs.  Dillon,  but  now  Mrs.  L.  Bushe  is  with 
me  I  shall  go ;  I  am  much  taken  with  the  young  Dillons 
-^they  are  innocent,  agreeable  girls.  I  am  truly  much 
concerned  for  poor  Mrs.  Duncombe,  her  disorder  is  often 
attended  with  sad  circumstances,  and  at  her  age  I  believe 
never  cured. 

I  had  a  letter  last  post  from  Babess — she  is  at  Bul- 
strode :  all  well  there  now.  I  had  a  letter  from  Cal- 
wich  a  few  weeks  ago,  my  brother  very  busy  planting, 
and  talked  of  going  to  town  as  soon  as  he  had  done ; 
he  complained  of  the  tedious  evenings.  I  have  not  heard 
from  Donnellan  a  great  while.  Dr.  Donnellan  is  in  a 
very  bad  state  of  health.  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton,  and 
Bushe  are  now  with  me — I  fetched  her  yesterday; 
Mrs.  H.  threatens  to  leave  me  on  Tuesday,  but  I 
will  try  to  keep  her  one  week  more,  for  we  are  now 
deeply  engaged  in  some  shell  carving  that  is  to 
be  placed  at  the  ends  of  my  book-shelves  in  my 
work-room.     We  have  been  so  much  taken  up,  that  we 

2r  2 


Digitized  by 


Google 


612  .     LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

have  not  either  gone  out  or  engaged  company  at  home, 
tliat  we  should  have  no  inters^  only  on  Wednesday, 
night  we  went  to  the  Philharmonic  concert,  which 
was  agreeable  enough,  and  we  design  to  go  to  the  first 
good  comedy  that  is  acted,  and  then  I  think  I  shall 
have  done  with  public  places  for  the  winter  season,  till 
February  is  over.  Yesterday  morning,  just  as  we  were 
setting  out  for  Dublin  to  fetch  Mrs.  L.  B.  and  Mrs.  Mon- 
gomGry,  (a  very  agreeable  woman,  and  friend  of  Mrs.  F. 
Hamilton)  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Vesey  came  to  breakfast,  which 
delayed  us  an  hour.  In  our  way  back  from  Dublin,  we 
called  at  Mr.  Smith's  {our  Chemnix)  to  see  a  pair  of  vases, 
which  I  think  the  finest,  and  prettiest  toys  I  ever  saw ; 
indeed  they  are  more  than  toys,  and  will  serve  for  de- 
canters or  ewers  very  well.  They  hold  above  a  quart 
each,  are  of  a  very  elegant  shape,  after  the  antique, 
made  of  the  Egyptian  pebble,  lined  with  gold,  set  in  the 
prettiest  manner,  and  ornamented  with  chased  gold  per- 
fectly well  wrought ;  he  got  them  unfinished,  and  finished 
them  here ;  the  price  three  hundred  guineas,  they  weigh 
an  hxmdred  and  fifty.  So,  madarriy  you  see,  though  we 
are  here  a  poor,  despised,  and  trampled  upon  nation, 
we  have  our  fine  things^  and  costly  things^  as  well — though 
not  quite  as  common — as  in  the  superbe  Angleterre  I  They 
really  are  so  very  pretty  that  I  would  rather  have  them 
than  £500  worth  of  jewels.  I  am  uneasy  I  have  not 
heard  from  Stoke.  Mrs.  Foley  wrote  me  word  of  Mrs. 
Tomlinson's^  being  brought  to  bed,  but  not  a  word  since. 
She  is  a  poor  tender  thing  I  am  in  some  fear  about. 


^  Sarah,  daughter  of  Thomas  Foley,  of  Stoke  Edith,  Esq.,  by  his  2nd  wife, 
married  Boulter  Tomliuson,  Esq.  of  Cheltenham. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  (il3 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes. 

Delville,  10  Nov.  1750. 

I  am  sure  your  visit  at  Snitfield  was  very  agreeable. 
There  is  something  in  that  old  lady^  so  refined  and 
delicate  that  she  looks  as  if  she  were  in  the  milenniwii 
state,  part  of  the  earthly  mortal  state  had  gone  off,  and 
somewhat  of  the  angelic  already  bestowed  on  her  !  This 
reflection  leads  me  to  consider  if  it  were  not  possible 
for  old  age  to  arrive  at  that  sort  of  perfection,  by 
throwing  by  all  the  mere  trifling  concerns  of  this  life, 
contracting  our  wants,  and  fixing  our  thoughts  on  the 
one  thing  necessary  above  all  others  to  make  us  endure 
this  life  and  fit  us  for  another.  I  don't  mean  by  this  to 
give  up  the  innocent  amusements  of  life,  or  to  endea- 
vour at  extinguishing,  or  even  lessening,  our  affections ; 
one  is  necessary  to  keep  up  good  humour  and  to  make 
us  agreeable  to  our  acquaintance ;  and  without  affections, 
or  with  lukewarm  ones,  what  wretches  should  we  be ! 
what  should  we  do  for  society,  and  how  weary  should  wo 
soon  grow  of  ourselves  !  But  the  condition  of  mind  T 
wish  to  arrive  at  is  to  enjoy  all  blessings  thankfully,  to 
consider  every  disappointment  as  a  merciful  correction, 
and  under  great  and  heavy  afflictions  to  submit  with 
entire  humiliation.  If  old  age  can  be  acquired  with  such 
a  disposition,  is  it  not  the  next  step  to  perfection,  as  the 
millennium  is  to  the  completion  of  utmost  blessedness  ? 

I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  meet  with  your  answer 
to  Con.  Phillips :  I  have  sent  to-day  to  enqure  about  it. 
I  am  impatient  to  see  it  after  wliat  you  have   said. 


*  Lady  Anne  Coventry'. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


614  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

You  shall  know  D.D/s  and  my  thoughts  upon  it  as 
soon  as  I  have  read  it.  I  am  glad  you  keep  up  your 
correspondence  with  our  good  friend  Mr.  Richardson. 
My  last  reading  of  his  "  Clarissa  "  has  given  me  a  higher 
opinion  of  his  capacity  and  excellent  heart  than  I  even 
had  before,  and  no  sensible,  imprejudiced  man  or  woman 
can  read  that  performance  of  his  with  proper  attention 
without  feeling  the  author's  extraordinary  merit.  I 
think  Miss  Nanny  Viney's  being  with  you  must  every 
way  be  an  advantage  to  her,  and  a  great  pleasure  to 
you,  because  you  delight  in  making  every  thing  happy 
near  you.  I  am  glad  to  hear  all  the  agues  are  gone. 
Mrs.  Kendal  is  a  sensible,  agreeable  woman,  but  some 
people,  through  modesty  (not  doing  justice  to  their  own 
judgment),  are  led  away  by  the  age  or  opinion  of  some- 
body they  are  partial  to,  though  perhaps  not  near  so  com- 
petent to  judge  of  what  they  pronounce  upon  as  them- 
selves; this  I  think  must  be  Mrs.  Kendal's  case,  or  she 
would  like  "  Clarissa."  I  never  heard  of  Con.  P.  having 
been  answered  till  you  mentioned  it. 

I  hope  the  Newland  French  woman  speaks  French 
well,  and  if  she  does  she  may  be  a  properer  servant 
than  a  Londoner.  I  have  not  read  Jo.  Thompson  •/  I 
have  heard  so  indiflferent  an  account  of  it  that  my  curio- 
sity has  not  been  raised.  Last  Monday  we  went  to 
town  to  see  Mrs.  Hamilton :  Court's  mistress  *  is  still 
much  out  of  order  with  her  slow  intermitting  fever.  I 
am  much  afraid  for  her,  and  never  saw  a  child  so 
altered ;   I  pity  Mrs.  H.,  for  this  is  a  fine  girl,  and  she 


'  The  Adventures  of  Joe  Thompson,  published  in  London  in  1750. 
5  Mary  Hamilton,  the  childish  correspondent  of  Court  Dewes. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  615 

is  a  most  tender  mother ;  I  am  glad  you  have  got  the 
Tony  box.  If  the  lace  is  fine,  I  think  Mechlin,  though 
not  80  showy,  as  pretty  as  Brussels.  The  lustre  and  the 
ornaments  for  the  ceiling  that  encloses  the  pulley  are 
finished  and  in  their  place,  and  I  have  given  another 
painting  to  the  Duchess  of  Queensbury ;  next  week  I 
go  to  work  on  the  Madonna  and  bambino,  for  the  chapel. 
Last  night  I  went  with  my  guest,  Mrs.  Hamilton,  to 
see  Macbeth,  and  was  very  well  entertained  with  it. 
Sheridan  acted  Macbeth  very  well,  the  other  parts  very 
tolerably  done.  Lady  Macbeth  by  Mrs.  Bland — a  very 
handsome  clever  woman,  acts  with  spirit,  but  wants 
judgment. 

On  Monday  we  go  to  Morella's  concert,  and  then  Mrs, 
Hamilton  leaves  us ;  business  obliges  her  to  go,  or  she 
flatters  me  that  she  should  with  pleasure  stay  longer 
with  me.  We  work  hard  all  the  morning,  and  Bushe 
reads  to  us  in  the  afternoon ;  I  read  till  seven  and  then 
we  play  at  puss  in  the  comer  with  the  children,  or  dance 
country  dances  to  a  very  bad  fiddle,  till  eight — prayer 
hour,  harpsichord  after  that,  and  after  supper  cribboge  or 
commerce.  We  have  read  Mr.  Richardson's^  "  A  Young 
Paint  jr's  Letters  from  Abroad,"  which  are  entertaining, 
and  give  a  particular  account  of  Herculaneum — the  city 
found  under  ground,  and  supposed  to  have  been  de- 
stroyed in  the  great  eruption  that  Pliny  gives  an  account 
of  in  his  Letters ;    and  now  we  are    reading  Spence's 


1  Jonathan  Richardson,  a  painter  and  writer  on  the  art,  born  about  1665, 
and  died  May  28,  1745.  After  Kneller  and  Dahl's  death,  Richardson  stood 
at  the  head  of  portrait  painters  in  this  country.  lie  published  several  works 
jointly  with  his  son,  and  in  1722,  "  An  Account  of  some  Statues,  Bas-reliefs, 
Drawings,  and  Pictures  in  Italy,  &c."  The  son  made  the  journey,  and  from 
his  observations  and  letters  this  work  was  compiled. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


616  LIKE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

Polymetis,*  that  explains  several  of  the  most  carious 
paintings  and  sculptures  of  the  antients ;  it  is  written 
in  a  very  good  style  and  in  a  very  lively  clear  manner. 
I  fancy  you  can  borrow  it  from  Sir  C.  Mordaunt,  and  it 
would  be  a  good  book  for  your  winter  evenings. 


Mrs,  Dektny  to  Mrs.  Deuxs. 

Delville,  17  Not.  1750. 

I  have  begun  a  large  Madonna  and  Child  for  the 
chapel,  which  is  a  great  imdertaking;  I  have  dead 
coloured  the  two  faces.  Last  Monday  Mrs.  F.  Hamilton 
and  I  parted  at  the  concert.  My  heart  aches  for  Mrs. 
Hamilton,  if  the  child  dies  it  will  be  a  most  severe  stroke 
upon  her,  for  though  her  piety  and  fortitude  are  very 
strong,  her  nerves  will  hardly  support  such  a  loss  long 
enough  to  give  time  for  their  salutary  workings. 

Last  Wednesday  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Donnellan  spent  the 
day  with  us, — they  are  very  good  agreeable  people.  I 
have  a  number  of  visits  on  my  hands,  but  whilst  Mrs. 
Hamilton  is  in  a  distrest  way  I  cannot  think  of  going 
to  anybody  but  her.  I  have  sent  you  by  Mr.  Dubourg, 
who  sailed  yesterday,  all  the  knotting  and  knotting 
thread  I  have — it  is  not  a  pound,  that  sort  of  thread  is 
not  to  be  houglU  in  London,  and  must  be  bespoke  in  the 
country,  so  that  the  soonest  I  could  get  to  send  would  be 
a  month.  The  double  knotting  I  have  sent  will  be  too 
fine  for  you,  I  fear.    Are  the  curtains  done  in  the  mosaic 


»  Poly  metis ;  or,  an  Enquiry  concerning  the  Works  of  the  Boman  Poets  and 
the  Eeraains  of  the  Ancient  Artists.  By  Dr.  Joseph  Spence,  1747,  author  of 
Anecdotes,  etc. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DEL  ANY.  617 

pattern  with  the  cloth  border  ?  I  am  angry  with  you 
that  you  sent  my  letters  to  Mr.  Richardson.  Indeed, 
such  careless  and  incorrect  letters  as  mine  are  to  you, 
should  not  be  exposed :  were  they  put  in  the  best  dress 
I  could  put  them  into,  they  have  nothing  to  recommend 
them  but  the  warm  overflowing  of  a  most  aflfectionate 
heart,  which  can  only  give  pleasure  to  the  partial  friend 
they  are  addressed  to. 

I  should  think  resting  a  few  days  with  you  would 
make  Miss  Bushe's  journey  less  fatiguing,  but  her  diffi- 
culty will  be  getting  to   Chester.     From  Bath  there 
are  often  return  coaches  that  go  back  cheap,  but  from 
Welsboume  I  can't  tell  how  she  can  be  acconmiodated ; 
she  does  not  return  till  Bristol  season  is  over.     I  had 
a  letter  from  Don.  last  post,  she  has  been  ill  and  much 
alarmed  about  Mrs.  Percival.     If  Mrs.  Percival  dies 
(as  her  age  and  infirmities  make  that  event  daily  to  be 
expected)  Miss  Sutton  will  be  at  some  loss  where  to  fix 
till  her  brother  returns  from  his  travels :  when  he  does 
they  will  settle  together,  and  Mrs.  D.  I  fancy,  would 
choose  to  fix  here  amongst  her  old  friends  and  relations. 
As  to  my  dear  Bell,  how  welcome  would  she  be  to  me, 
but  her  coming  to  Ireland  might  give  offence  to  some 
of  her  friends,  and  put  her  out  of  the  way  of  settling 
in  England,  though  were  I  to  indulge  my  own  incli- 
nation, without  any  other  consideration,  my  dear  friend's 
daughter  should  not  seek  for  a  home  out  of  my  house. 
The  loss  of  friends  is  a  painful  recollection ;  what  a  void 
is  this  life  when  they  are  gone  !     That  thought  alone, 
without  considering  the  infirmities  of  old  age,  makes  it 
by  no  means  a  state  to  be  anxious  to  arrive  at ;  but  if 
Providence  sees  fit  to  continue  us  in  this  probationary 


Digitized  by 


Google 


618  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

state  to  old  age,  we  ought  to  conclude  it  is  for  good  and 
wise  ends,  and  that  the  afflicting  losses  we  must  naturally 
meet  with  are  hut  momentary  sorrows  compared  to  the 
joys  we  shall  reap  if  we  submit  humbly,  as  we  ought  to 
do.  These  sort  of  reflections  are  called  melancholy, 
but  I  think  them  only  serious ;  they  prepare  the  mind 
and  help  to  fortify  it  against  the  day  of  adversity,  and 
make  the  blessings  we  are  permitted  to  enjoy  more 
lively  and- dear  to  us.  Can  you  get  Lady  Anne  Coven- 
try's recipe  for  the  rose  pattern  cross  stitch?  Many 
thanks  for  that  of  the  raisin  wine.  The  Duke  of  Dorset 
is  to  be  our  viceroy.  Bushe  and  I  went  last  Monday 
to  see  Mrs.  Dillon  and  her  sister  Lady  Austen :  they 
are  gone  to  pay  a  melancholy  visit  to  their  brother 
Preston — are  pretty  well,  and  so  are  the  agreeable  girls. 


Mrs.  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Detues. 

Delville,  24  Nov.  1750. 

I  don't  fear  your  prudence  in  the  management  of 
of  your  children.  Love,  coupled  with  fear,  are  the  bands 
that  must  confine  them  to  what  is  right.  A  wrong  and 
over-indulgent  conduct  of  parents  to  children  is  the 
greatest  cruelty  to  them;  for  if  they  never  meet  with 
contradiction  till  they  are  of  age  to  engage  in  the  great 
concerns  of  life,  how  will  they  be  able  to  sustain  the 
contradictions,  disappointments,  and  mortifications  they 
must  encounter  in  this  world  ?  But  a  perverse,  inju- 
dicious manner  of  contradicting  and  thwarting  them, 
and  very  severe  corrections  for  trifles,  does  them  I 
believe  almost  as  much  harm  as  a  universal  indulgence. 
Happy  are  my  dear  children,  who  are  I  hope  born  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  619 

prove  the  golden  mean  :  it  is  I  am  persuaded  to  a  very 
tender  mother,  a  most  self-denying  principle  to  refuse 
that  indulgence,  but  great  the  virtue  and  strong  the  obli- 
gation laid  on  her  to  correct  her  child  steadily  cmdproperly. 

I  am  grieved  for  what  poor  Nanny  Viney  suffers, 
though  she  has  a  balm  in  her  mind  ready  to  heal  all 
wounds.  How  gracious  is  Providence  in  making  up  to 
us  what  we  love  of  worldly  employments !  No  one  can 
want  consolation  that  justly  attends  to  his  merciful 
appointments ;  and  when  we  suffer  without  having  vio- 
lated his  commands  (as  far  as  human  nature  can  presume 
to  judge  of  their  own  intentions  and  actions),  how  great 
an  advantage  have  they  over  those  whose  consciences 
smite  them  with  having  brought  God's  judgments  on 
them !  and  a  trial  of  our  patience,  humility,  and  resig. 
nation,  is  a  happy  state,  compared  to  what  we  must  suffer 
when  conscious  we  are  chastised  for  our  €vil  deeds. 
Dr.  Barber  is  much  obliged  to  you,  and  expresses  great 
gratitude  to  you  and  Mr.  Dewes,  we  seldom  see  him, 
as  his  lectureship  take  up  three  days  in  the  week.  The 
ingenious  Letitia  is  now  exercising  her  fingers  on  my 
Indian  book. 

Have  you  yet  read  Mr.  West^  on  the  Employment  of 
Time  ?  I  have  not  finished  it :  it  is,  as  far  as  1  have 
gone,  charming.  We  are  now  reading  Carte's  History 
of  the  Duke  of  Ormond.  My  precious  knot  of 
friends  in  this  part  of  the  world  send  their  best  compli- 
ments. I  have  been  indeed  much  distressed  on  Mrs.  H. 
Hamilton's  account — ^but  I  hope  Court's  mistress  is  out 
of  danger. 


*  The  Employment  of  Time,  in  three  Essays,  published  in  1750,  was  not 
written  by  Mr.  West,  but  by  Dr.  Robert  Bolton,  Dean  of  Carlisle,  born  1697, 
died  1763, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


620  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

A/r».  DeUwy  to  Mrs.  Deives.     ■ 

Delville,  Nov.  30,  1750. 

I  am  glad  Mr.  Richardson  has  lent  you  the  Lancashire 
lady's  letters;  I  should  be  glad  to  read  them  again. 
I  thought  them  written  with  great  vivacity  and  wit ; 
though  against  my  own  judgment  as  to  the  catastrophe 
of "  Clarissa."  I  read  them  too  hastily  to  say  much 
about  them,  but  I  am  sure  your  observation  is  just  as 
to  her  obstinacy.  I  forget  who  you  thought  the  author 
of  Mrs.  Belfour's  letters. 

I  have  had  letters  from  my  correspondents  lately. 
The  Duchess  was  in  London  for  the  two  Birthdays ; 
Babess  and  Dash  with  her  at  Bulstrode  when  she  wrote 
last  to  me.  Doimellan  has  been  distrest  about  Mrs.  Per- 
cival,  who  declines  fast ;  and  Dr.  Donnellan  is  in  so  bad 
a  state  of  health,  that  his  friends  are  in  great  apprehen- 
sions for  him.  Miss  Forth  is  better — at  Bath,  and  Mrs. 
Hamilton,  I  hope,  will  have  her  fine  little  girl  preserved 
to  her.  Bushe  is  very  well  and  with  me,  very  busy  at 
this  time,  drawing  in  my  Indian  book.  ^ 

Yesterday  we  were  at  a  charitable  music,  performed  in 
the  round  church  of  Dublin ;  we  had  Corelli's  8th  Con- 
certo, Mr.  Handel's  Te  Deum  Jubilate,  and  two  anthems ; 
I  cannot  say  there  was  so  great  a  crowd  as  I  wished  to 
see  on  the  occasion.  We  had  promised  to  breakfast  and 
dine  at  Lucan  this  day,  and  to  come  home  by  moonshine, 
but  wind  and  rain  prevented  our  design.  I  never  heard 
a  fiercer  storm  than  it  has  been  all  night,  and  is  but  little 
abated.    The  first  part  of  this  week  I  have  spent  chiefly 

This  book  is  in  posseesion  of  the  Editor.  The  leaves  are  of  Indian  paper, 
and  the  drawings  are  chiefly  landscapes,  finely  finished  in  Indian  ink  ;  most  ot 
them  by  Letitia  Bushe. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  621 

in  painting  the  great  Madonna ;  I  have  not  yet  covered 
my  canvass.  Last  Tuesday  we  dined  at  Mr.  McAulay's, 
a  councillor  learned  in  the  law  :  there  we  met  the  Bishop 
of  Derry,  and  lady,  son,  and  cousin,  and  Mrs.  Stone,  her 
sister.  On  Monday  we  are  to  dine  at  the  Bishop  of 
Derry 's'.  I  hope  he  will  have  some  music — he  has  some- 
times :  he  has  a  very  good  collection  of  pictures.  Mrs. 
Bernard  is  a  very  agreeable,  clever  woman,  well  ac- 
quainted with  the  useful  part  of  the  world,  singular  in 
her  manner,  open  in  her  behaviour,  and  very  penetra- 
ting in  her  judgment :  I  never  met  with  a  woman  of 
quicker  parts ;  she  is  withal  very  good  and  charitable, 
which  crowns  the  rest. 

The  Duchess  of  Portland  has  given  me  great  satis- 
faction in  her  last  letter,  by  telling  me  that  the  Maid 
of  Honour  is  much  altered  in  one  particular,  in  which 
I  feared  there  never  would  be  amendment — in  great 
indifference  between  her  and  Lovelace ;  and  the  little 
woman  8  great  ease  confirms  the  Duchess  in  her  observa- 
tion. What  friends  sometimes  look  upon  as  a  great 
calamity  often  is  sent  us  as  a  great  blessing :  if  the 
Maid  of  Honour's  long  and  painful  illness  has  madd? 
a  happy  change  in  her  mind,  her  friends  as  well  as 
herself  will  be  paid  for  all  their  anxieties. 

I  wish  I  could  have  assisted  you  in  your  time  of  need 
with  thread  and  knotting.  I  am  sorry  you  have  been 
disappointed  of  the  French  woman,  as  beginning  French 
very  young,  gives  a  freer  and  better  pronunciation 
than  can  be  learned  when  they  are  older,  but  as  this 
is  an  embellishment  more  than  any  niatei^ial  accomplish- 
ment, and  if  (which  you  can  do  very  well)  you  teach 
her  the  grammar,  and  how  to  read,  that  will  do  for  some 
years,  and  when  you  meet  with  a  servant  to  your  mind, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


622  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

that  can  save  you  some  part  of  the  attention  you  now 
have,  take  her  by  all  means,  for  it  is  too  much  for  you  to 
have  the  whole  care  of  so  many  upon  your  spirits ;  I 
hope  the  boys  will  be  so  well  next  year,  that  you  may 
put  the  two  eldest  to  school.  Have  you  read  Mr.  West 
on  the  Employment  of  Time  ?  I  think  it  charming ;  he 
says  some  pretty  things  on  education ;  and  under  the 
conduct  of  Emiliu,  I  hope  my  Pauline  will  prove  a 
Leonora.  That  child  takes  up  much  of  my  thoughts. 
/  know  what  a  world  she  has  to  pass  through ;  how 
many  difficulties  to  encounter,  temptations  to  avoid,  afflic- 
tions to  support.  As  a  human  creature,  some  of  these 
trials  she  must  prove ;  but  I  hope  the  good  education 
she  will  receive  from  excellent  parents,  their  con- 
stant precepts  and  example,  will  enable  her  to  figkt 
them  mxmfuUy.  True  religion  and  a  command  of  her 
passions  will  be  the  best  armour  she  can  put  on.  I 
look  upon  it  as  a  great  advantage  to  our  girl,  that 
her  parents  are  not  too  youthful,  but  have  also  gained 
a  full  experience,  which  enables  them  the  better  to  per- 
form the  great  task  of  forming  and  bending  a  young 
•mind  to  what  is  right. 

I  return  you  Mr.  Richardson's^  letters,  and  many 
thanks  for  the  perusal  of  them ;  he  is  a  worthy  man, 
and  therefore  it  is  an  honour  to  be  esteemed  and  distin- 
guished by  him ;  but  I  am  afraid  a  man  equal  to  Clarissa 
will  be  hard  to  find!  Do  you  remember  our  short 
scheme  about  one  as  we  went  to  Birmingham  (that 
day  of  white  melancholy)  ?  Books  that  are  designed 
to  instruct  the  world  in  an  entertaining  way  are  a 
hard  task,  for  they  must  be  easy,  natural,  and  polite. 


'  The  author  of  CUmssaj  and  an  occasianal  correspondent  of  Mrs.  Dewes. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  623 

blended  with  the  strictest  moral  and  religious  prin- 
ciples ;  it  is  not  that  in  reality  they  are  incompatible, 
but  the  corruptions  and  effeminacy  of  the  fine  world  is 
such,  that  they  will  not  receive  and  entertain  honesty 
and  virtue,  unless  they  are  dressed  up  in  the  most  elegant 
and  fashionable  attire. 

I  am  much  concerned  to  hear  of  Miss  Viney's  hoarse- 
ness ;  it  is  a  thing  must  not  be  neglected,  and  if  she 
does  not  lose  it  before  spring,  by  all  means  she  should 
go  to  Bristol. 

Mrs.  Dewea  to  Bernard  OranviUe,  Esq,,  at  his  home  in  Park  Street,  near  Qroa- 
venor  Square,  London, 

Welsbourne,  3rd  Dec'.  1750. 

Poor  Miss  Nanny  has  been  very  ill  this  week,  but 
we  expect  Dr.  Burgh  in  his  way  from  Lady  Anne 
Coventry,  and  I  intend  she  shall  consult  him. 

I  don't  desire  long  letters,  as  I  know  you  don't  love  to 
write  them,  but  pray  let  me  know  how  Sir  Anthony 
does,  for  I  have  not  heard  from  him  a  great  while. 

I  hope  you  find  Mr.  Handel  well.  I  beg  my  compli- 
ments to  him :  he  has  not  a  more  real  admirer  of  his 
great  work  than  myself ;  his  wonderful  Messiah  will 
never  be  out  of  my  head  ;  and  I  may  say  my  hear^t  was 
raised  almost  to  heaven  by  it.  It  is  only  those  people 
who  have  not  felt  the  pleasure  of  devotion  that  can 
make  any  objection  to  that  performance,  which  is  calcu- 
lated to  raise  our  devotion,  and  make  us  truly  sensible 
of  the  power  of  the  divine  words  he  has  chose  beyond 
any  human  work  that  ever  yet  appeared,  and  I  am  sure 
I  may  venture  to  say  ever  will.  If  anything  can  give 
us  an  idea  of  the  Last  Day  it  must  be  that  part — "  The 


Digitized  by 


Google 


624  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

trumpet  shall  sound,  the  dead  shall  be  raised."  It  is 
few  people  I  can  say  so  much  to  as  this,  for  they  would 
call  me  an  enthusiast;  but  when  I  wish  to  raise  my 
thoughts  above  this  world  and  all  its  trifling  concerns, 
I  look  over  what  oratorios  I  have,  and  even  my  poor 
way  of  fumbling  gives  me  pleasing  recollections,  but  I 
have  nothing  of  the  Messiah,  but  He  was  despised^  &c. 
Does  Mr.  Handel  do  anything  new  against  next  Lent  ? 
surely  Theodora  ^  will  have  justice  at  last,  if  it  was  to 
be  again  performed,  but  the  generality  of  the  world 
have  ears  and  hear  not.  Mr.  Dewes  is  vastly  afraid  I 
shall  make  the  boys  love  music,  which  he  thinks  would 
interfere  with  their  necessary  studies,  but  I  doubt  they 
have  all  good  ears,  and  the  little  girl  really  can  sing  a 
tune,  and  he  allows  me  to  make  her  a  musician  if  I  can. 
I  am  sorry  the  Maid  of  Honour  is  relapsed.  Lord 
Mansel's  *  death  has  made  a  fine  widow  and  heiress. 
Mr.  Dewes  and  Miss  Viney  desire  their  best  wishes  to 
you.  I  heard  last  post  from  Ireland  :  all  there  are  well. 
Have  you  read  remarks  upon  Mrs.  Muilman's^  Letter 
to  Lord  Chesterfield  ?  It  is  worth  yeur  looking  over. 
I  want  to  see  **  The  Economy  of  Human  Life,"*  they 
tell  me  it  is  wrote  by  Lord  Chesterfield. 


^  Theodora,  an  English  oratorio  hy  Handell,  was  first  performed  on  the  16th 
of  March,  1750. 

^  Bussey  Mansell,  4th  and  last  Baron.  His  first  wife  was  Lady  Betty 
Hervey,  daughter  'of  John,  Earl  of  Bristol,  and  his  second  wife,  Barhara, 
widow  of  Sir  Walter  Blacket,  and  daughter  of  William,  Earl  of  Jersey.  Lord 
Mansell  died  in  1750. 

*  Letter  tb  the  Earl  of  Chesterfield,  by  Teresa  Gonstantia  Mailman. 
Published  in  1756. 

*  The  Economy  of  Human  Life ;  translated  from  an  Indian  manuscript 
written  by  an  Ancient  Bramin  :  to  which  is  prefixed,  An  account  of  the  man- 
ner in  which  the  said  MS.  was  discovered,  in  a  letter  from  an  English  Gentle- 
man now  residing  in  China,  to  the  Earl  of  ***.  Published  by  Robert  Dodsley. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  625 

You  know  poor  old  Mrs.  Kirkham  is  dead.^ 
I  had  a  bad  account  of  poor  Mrs.  Buncombe  from 
the  Bath  last  week.     She  has  a  cancer  in  her  side,  two 
surgeons  attend  her,  but  there  are  small  hopes  of  her 
life  ;  Mr.  Pie  at  Bristol  did  her  no  service. 

Your  nephews  and  niece  desire  their  humble  duty, 
you  would  think  them  vastly  grown,  they  are  all  very 
well.  • 

Mrs.  Dewes,  writing  to  her  brother,  Mr.  Granville,  Dec.  19, 
asks  him  to  allow  one  of  his  senrants  to  deliver  a  parcel  to  Mr. 
Eichaidson,  which  contained  some  rrumusGript  letters  he  had  sent 
her  to  read  and  which,  Mr.  Bichaidson  said,  "  were  of  value  to 
him.'' 


Mrs.  DeUmy  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  10  Dec.  1750. 

Last  Monday  we  dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Derry's 
(Bernard),  Mrs.  Stone  and  Mrs.  Mc  Aulay  of  the  party. 
I  was  very  well  entertained  with  looking  over  the 
Bishop's  pictures :  he  has  a  very  good  collection,  by 
above  200  different  masters'  hands,  original  pictures, 
well  preserved,  and  in  good  order ;  not  many  Italian, 
but  the  greatest  variety  of  Dutch  and  Flemish  I  ever 
saw  in  one  collection.  It  is  an  agreeable  house  to  go  to, 
the  Bishop  hearty  and  good-natured,  Mrs.  Bernard 
sensible  and  clever,  and  very  easy,  and  besides,  a 
library  well  furnished  with  portfolios  of  fine  drawings 
and  prints,  with  which  they  seem  pleased  to  entertain 
their  friends.  In  the  morning  I  called  upon  Mrs. 
Hamilton,  Miss  Mary  is  recovering  very  fast.   Tuesday 


1  The  ^ife  of  the  Rev.  Lionel  Kirkham,  of  Staunton,  and  mother  of  Sarah 
Kirkham,  Mrs.  Chapon. 

VOL.   II.  2  8 


Digitized  by 


Google 


626  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  sat  down  to  my  painting,  and  Bushe  to  her  drawing. 
In  the  evening,  when  tea  is  over,  we  settle  to  our 
different  engagements ;  she  reads  aloud  Mr.  Carte  s  Life 
of  the  Duke  of  Ormonde,  and  I  go  on  with  making  shell 
flowers  for  the  ceiling  of  the  chapel.  I  have  made  86 
large  flowers,  and  about  30  small  ones ;  I  believe  I  told 
you  this  before,  and  that  I  tire  you  with  repetition. 
Wednesday,  Thursday  and  Friday  spent  alike.  We  had 
a  pleasant  jaunt  on  Saturday.  Went  to  Lucan  to  break- 
fast, found  Veseys  up  to  the  chin  in  business,  hanging 
pictures  and  settling  other  decorations :  all  of  us  en- 
gaged in  their  business,  staid  to  dinner,  and  till  7  in  the 
evening,  came  home  by  a  charming  moonlight.  A 
comfortable  circumstance  belonging  to  this  country  is, 
that  the  roads  are  so  good  and  free  from  robbers,  that 
we  may  drive  safely  any  hour  of  the  night.  On 
Tuesday  morning  next,  the  rehearsal  of  the  Messiah  is 
to  be  for  the  benefit  of  debtors — on  Thursday  evening 
it  will  be  performed.  I  hope  to  go  to  both ;  our  new, 
and  t/ierefore  favourite  performer  Morella  is  to  play  the 
first  fiddle,  and  conduct  the  whole.  I  am  afraid  his 
French  taste  will  prevail ;  I  shall  not  be  able  to  endure  his 
mirodiuoin^  froth  and  nonsense  in  that  sublime  and  awful 
piece  of  music.  What  makes  me  fear  this  will  be  the 
case,  is,  that  in  the  closing  of  the  eighth  concerto  of 
Corelli,  instead  of  playing  it  clear  and  distinct,  he  filled 
it  up  with  frippery  and  graces  which  quite  destroyed  the 
qff^ect  of  the  sweet  notes,  and  solemn  pauses  that  con- 
clude it.  I  enclose  you  a  silly  nonsensical  description 
of  Killarney,  the  famous  Lake  and  Islands  I  gave  you 
some  account  of :  I  heard  it  was  published,  and  sent  for 
it  for  you^  and  wish  it  was  better  for  your  sake.* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANY.  627 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs,  Dewes. 

Delville,  15  Dec.  1750. 

I  was  this  morning  obliged  to  work  an  hour  and  a 
half  at  my  pictnre  which  by  Monday  would  have  been 
too  dry  for  some  softenings  that  were  absolutely  neces- 
sary, and  we  dine  abroad  at  Mrs.  Forde's,  who  is  an 
exact  person  as  to  hours.  Miss  Hamilton  continues  to 
mend,  and  will,  I  hope,  soon  be  quite  well. 

Your  account  of  poor  Mrs.  Buncombe  I  return  ;  but 
why  do  I  call  her  poor  ?  by  this  time,  in  all  probability, 
she  is  truly  rich  :  yet  good  and  valuable  friends  are 
such  a  treasure  to  us  in  this  world,  that  it  is  hard  to 
give  them  up,  though  to  their  advantage.  I  hear  Lady 
Westmoreland  is  dangerously  ill.  How  many  friends 
and  agreeable  acquaintances  shall  I  have  lost  within 
these  seven  years  I  some  indeed  were  a  grievous  affliction^ 
and  all  a  sensible  concern  :  but  we  must  turn  our  eyes 
to  the  many  undeserved  blessings  we  still  enjoy,  and 
be  thankful.  .  These  losses  ought  to  awaken  us  to  a 
more  eager  pursuit  of  those  joys  that  never  end. 

I  am  muct  pleased  that  you  have  advanced  so  far  in 
your  work,  and  sorry  I  have  not  been  able  to  give  you 
any  assistance ;  all  the  thread  and  knotting  I  had  I  sent 
by  Mrs.  Dubourg,  and  hope  you  have  got  it  by  this 
time.  I  think  you  have  judged  very  well  for  the  pattern 
of  your  window  curtains.  I  have  not  yet  got  the  answer 
to  Mrs.  Muilman,  and  am  all  impatient  for  it.  I  have 
read  "  The  Economy  of  Human  Life,"  and  think  it  very 
pretty,  all  but  the  chapter  on  love — and  that,  if  you 
leave  out  excess  in  the  first  sentence,  there  is  no  objec 


Digitized  by 


Google 


628  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

tion  to  it ;  that^  I  suppose  was  to  keep  up  the  Eastern 
custom,  but  as  it  is  meant  for  the  instruction  of  Xtians, 
that  part  should  have  been  blotted  out.  I  think  there 
are  many  beauties  in  the  book,  and  those  are  chiefly 
owing  to  the  Proverbs,  from  which  he  has  taken  all  his 
most  sublime  thoughts. 

'  As  to  our  heUe  amie^  engage  her  to  make  you  a  visit 
the  first  opportunity  she  has,  and  when  they  have 
met,  you  may  judge  if  any  steps  can  be  taken  to 
make  two  very  reasonable,  good  people  happy.  This 
week  I  have  had  a  feast  of  music.  At  the  rehearsal 
on  Tuesday  morning,  and  last  night  at  the  performance, 
of  the  Messiah ;  very  well  performed  indeed,  and  the 
pleasure  of  the  music  greatly  heightened  by  considering 
how  many  poor  prisoners  would  be  released  by  it.  You 
may  (Bushe  says)  write  to  Mrs.  Dillon  when  you 
please — she  is  sure  she  will  be  glad  to  hear  from  you ; 
her  two  modest,  innocent  girls  went  with  us  to  the 
Messiah,  and  asked  much  after  you.  We  go  this  after- 
noon to  the  Bishop  of  Derry*s,  to  hear  Morella;  he 
conducted  the  Messiah  very  well — mrprizingly  so,  con- 
sidering he  was  not  before  acquainted  with  such  sublime 
music. 

I  am  happy  in  Mr.  Richardson's  approbation;  it 
raises  my  emulation  of  being  more  worthy  his  esteem. 
When  I  am  commended  by  those  whose  distinction  is 
honourable  to  me,  I  am  ashamed  of  every  weakness 
that  may  hurt  me  in  their  opinion.  Is  there  a  better 
spur  to  good  actions  than  the  praise  and  encourage- 
ment of  wise  and  virtuous  friends  ?  Not  on  this  aide 
heaven,  I  am  sure. 


Digitized  by  VjOOQIC 


OP  MRS.  DELANY.  629 

Mrs,  Ddany  to  Bernard  QranmUe^  Esq,,  Park  Street,  Orosvenor  Square, 

Delville,  Dec.  18, 1750. 

I  think  I  have  lately  been  as  guilty  of  laziness  about 
writing  as  you  can  be,  but  though  it  may  have  appeared 
laziness,  truly  it  has  been  the  contrary.  Pour  days  in 
the  week  I  am  engaged  in  painting ;  I  am  now  copying 
a  large  Madonna  and  Child  after  Guido,  for  our  chapel. 
I  believe  it  is  an  original,  but  it  has  been  much 
damaged,  and  is  so  obscure  in  many  places,  that  it  is  an 
unpleasant  task.  I  shall  have  amends  made  me  after- 
wards by  a  picture  the  Primate  has  lent  me  of  BaphaeVs; 
I  fancy  I  gave  you  an  account  of  it.  Besides  my 
pencils,  I  am  busily  employed  in  making  shell  orna- 
ments for  the  chapel  ceiling,  but  those  are  my  candle- 
light work.  Bushe  in  the  evening  reads  Carte's  His- 
tory of  the  Duke  of  Ormonde  to  us,  and  the  days  that  I 
am  obliged  to  go  abroad  in  are  not  half  so  agreeable  to 
me  as  those  I  spend  at  home.  I  was  at  the  rehearsal 
and  performance  of  The  Messiah,  and  though  voices  and 
hands  were  wanting  to  do  it  justice,  it  was  very  tolerably 
performed,  and  gave  me  great  pleasure — 'tis  heavenly. 
Morella  conducted  it,  and  1  expected  would  have  spoiled 
it,  but  was  agreeably  surprized  to  find  the  contrary  ;  he 
came  off  with  great  applause.  I  thought  it  would  be 
impossible  for  his  wild  fancy  and  fingers  to  have  kept 
within  bounds ;  but  Handel's  music  inspired  and  awed 
him.  He  says  (hU  I  dmit  believe  him)  that  he  never  saw 
any  music  of  Handel's  or  Corelli's  till  he  came  to  Ire- 
land. I  heard  him  play  at  the  Bishop  of  Berry's  a 
solo  of  Geminiani's  which  he  had  never  seen ;  he  played 
it  cleverly,  as  his  execution  is  extraordinary,  but  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


630  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

taste  in  the  adagio  part  was  ill  suited  to  the  music.  He 
is  young,  modest,  and  well-behaved,  as  I  am  told,  and 
were  he  to  play  under  Mr.  Handel's  direction  two  or 
three  years,  would  make  a  surprizing  player.  We  are 
so  fond  of  him  here,  that  were  it  known  I  gave  this 
hint,  I  should  be  expelled  all  musical  society,  as  they 
so  much  fear  he  should  be  tempted  to  leave  us. 

I  had  a  letter  lately  from  Lady  Abbess,  who  tells  me 
poor  Betty  is  worse  again ;  but  that  in  some  particulars 

relating  to  her  conduct  with ,  there  is  such  an 

alteration  as  gives  her  great  satisfaction.  I  was  so  happy 
yesterday  as  to  hear  our  friends  at  Welsboume  are  well. 
How  does  Sir  Anthony  ?  Pray  make  him  our  compli- 
ments. Dr.  Donnellan  is  come  from  Inniscarra,  and 
lodges  at  ClontarflF ;  we  are  going  to  see  him  this  morn- 
ing ;  I  fear  he  is  in  a  bad  way,  though  his  brother,  who 
dined  here  yesterday,  says  he  is  better  than  he  expected 
to  see  him.  Did  you  hear  of  your  old  friend  Mrs. 
Burgh's  death  ?  She  is  much  lamented  by  her  family, 
but  had  the  pleasure  before  her  death  to  settle  all  her 
daughters ;  the  youngest.  Miss  Dolly,  was  married  last 
year  to  a  Mr.  Forster,  a  sensible,  clever  lawyer,  and  a 
very  good  fortime. 

We  have  many  projects  in  hand ;  planting,  levell- 
ing, and  railing  in  the  cold-bath  field,  to  let  the  deer  in. 
You  must  understand  that  field  is  in  the  midst  of  our 
garden.  (Alas !  I  talk  to  you  of  it,  as  if  you  were  as 
well  acquainted  with  it  as  I  and  the  Dean  most  heartily 
wish  you  were).  I  have  given  you  a  sketch  of  it. 
We  seem,  in  general,  well  pleased  that  the  Duke  of 
Dorset  is  named  for  us  :  anything,  rather  than  our 
last  V.R.,  who  is  detested  here. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OP  MRS.  DBLANY.  631 

Well  now,  my  dear  brother,  it  is  time  t^  cease  my 
babbling.  I  hope  to  hear  from  you  soon.  Accept  of 
best  wishes  for  the  season,  and  believe  me, 

Your  most  aflfectionate  sister  and  hmnble  servant, 

M.  D. 

Have  you  got  your  shells  ?  Shall  I  send  you  more  ? 
I  believe  the  best  way  when  you  have  more,  would  be 
to  send  them  by  Loughrea  to  London.  Pray  make  my 
compliments  to  Handel.  Is  Theodora  to  appear  next 
Lent  ?     Compliments  to  Hanover  Square. 

Upon  consideration,  I  don't  believe  the  paper  you 
have  would  suit  your  bed.  But  it  would  look  very 
handsome  in  your  hall,  give  it  a  finished  look — and  it  is 
cheaper  than  painting. 


Mrs,  Ddany  to  Mrs.  Dewes, 

Delville,  22  Dec,  1750. 

I  spent  two  comfortable  hours  with  Mrs.  Hamil- 
ton, who  is  quite  happy  in  the  recovery  of  her  little 
girl :  she  is  now  come  down  stairs,  and  is  as  lively  as 
ever,  though  a  little  skeleton.  I  thought  it  hardly  pos- 
sible she  should  recover,  but  I  thank  God  she  has !  her 
death  would  have  been  a  fatal  stroke  to  her  excellent 
mother,  whose  nerves  are  ill  able  to  support  such  a 
shock.  Her  eldest  daughter  is  a  good  creature,  and 
has  shewn  such  a  regard  to  her  mother  and  sister  on 
this  occasion,  such  attention,  and  been  so  useful,  that 
it  has  raised  her  greatly  in  my  esteem.      She  is  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


632  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

spend  this  day  with  me ;  if  I  could  transport  yours^Zf,  (I 
mean  my  dear  sister^aelf^  here,  you  should  be  here  to- 
day to  partake  of  our  musical  entertainment.  Signer 
Morellia,  our  present  famous  performer,  and  his  friend 
(whose  name  I  know  not)  that  accompanies  him,  and  a 
Mr.  Smith,  who  plays  well  on  the  harpsichord  (not  the 
Counsellor),  an  organist,  are  to  be  here  before  12,  and  to 
spend  the  day  here.  The  rest  of  the  company  are  to  be 
Mrs.  F.Hamilton,  and  Miss  Ann,  Bishop  of  Derry,  Mrs. 
Bernard,  their  son  and  niece.  I  can't  but  think  if  I 
had  the  power  of  transporting  you  hither  whenever  I 
wanted  you,  what  an  amazement  your  husband,  chil- 
dren, servants,  and  neighbours  would  be  in,  and 
if  this  thought  came  into  an  ingenious  head  it  might 
be  worked  up  to  something  droll  enough.  Miss  Forth, 
if  it  is  possible,  will  call  on  you  before  she  returns  to  us ; 
it  is  what  she  wishes  to  do,  were  it  but  for  an  hour ;  she 
is  much  better.  I  shall  not  paint  next  week,  there  being 
so  many  church  days,  but  shall  pursue  my  works  for 
the  chapel  of  another  sort.  I  am  most  heartily  sorry 
for  poor  Mrs.  Kendal.  I  like  Newton's  Fable  extremely. 
I  cannot  get  the  answer  to  Con.  P — . 


Mrs,  Delcmy  to  Mrs,  Dewes, 

Delville,  28  Dec.,  1760. 

I  thank  God  I  have  been  very  well,  but  very  busy, 
though  the  main  and  most  material  business  of  the  week 
I  was  not  able  to  pursue ;  for  since  Xtmas  day  it  has 
been  perpetual  rain,  and  our  horses  are  all  ill  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


OF  MRS.  DELANT.  633 

epidemic  disorder;  the  distemper  was  brought  here 
about  three  weeks  ago  by  horses  from  England,  and 
rages  everywhere,  and  several  have  died  of  it. 

I  have  just  seen  the  sun  rise  most  gloriously ;  the 
reflection  of  it  in  the  sea  and  the  gilding  of  the  ships 
and  buildings  was  beautiful.  Now  the  days  lengthen  I 
shall  grow  again  an  early  riser,  for  I  have  not  this  month 
past  been  up  before  8. 

I  don  t  think  I  half  answered  yours  of  the  7th. 
I  wish  you  joy  of  your  curtains  being  done,  and  hope 
you  have  got  my  thread  by  this  time :  I  am  sorry  to 
be  so  little  assistant  to  you  in  it,  but  D.D.  employs  me 
every  hour  in  the  day  for  his  chapeL  I  make  the  flowers 
and  other  ornaments  by  candle-light,  and  by  daylight, 
when  I  don't  paint,  put  together  the  festoons  that  are 
for  the  ceiling,  and  after  supper  we  play  at  commerce, 
one  pool.  Our  everyday  reading  is  still  Carte's  HiBtory 
of  the  old  Duke  of  Ormonde  :  he  is  one  of  the  greatest 
heroes  I  ever  read  of,  such  courage,  prudence,  loyalty, 
humanity,  and  virtues  of  every  kind  make  up  his 
character,  but  the  sufferings  of  King  Charles  the 
First,  though  there  but  in  part  related,  break  one's  heart ! 
I  think  the  periods  too  long ;  there  is  a  repetition  of 
facts  that  might  have  been  avoided ;  and  it  is  upon  the 
whole  rather  tedious,  but  the  subject  so  interesting 
that  it  carries  one  along.  Our  Sunday  reading  is  the 
Minute  Philosopher.^  What  a  work  of  genius  is 
that !  How  beautiful  the  style ;  and  for  sense  and  wit 
surely  nothing  can  exceed  it.  I  beg  you  will  read  it 
again.    I  thought  it  at  first  reading  more  abstruse  than 


«  *<  The  Minute  Philosopher/  hy  Dr.  BeAeiej,  Bishop  of  Clo/ne. 
VOL.  II.  2   T 


Digitized  by 


Google 


634  LIFE  AND  CORRESPONDENCE 

I  do  now ;  though  there  are  very  few  pages  (I  don't  know 
but  I  may  say  sentences)  but  what  you  will  perfectly  un- 
derstand, with  close  attention.  It  is  impossible  for  a 
minute  phUoscph^y  who  has  comprehension,  to  read 
that  book  and  not  become  a  convert ;  it  baffles  all  their 
absurdities  with  such  reasoning  and  such  lively  strokes 
of  wit  that  infidelity  must  fall  before  it  The  4th  day, 
that*  treats  of  vision,  is  too  deep  for  me  in  some  places ; 
but  there  is  enough  clear,  even  to  my  understanding, 
to  make  it  both  useful  and  extremely  entertaining. 
Your  observation  on  old  age  is  very  just :  it  certainly 
brings  many  satisfactions  unknown  to  youth,  and  has 
thrown  by  many  cares  and  worldly  anxieties ;  that  is 
a  reasonable  old  age, — ^for  when  it  is  not  that  it  is  a 
deplorable  state,  irksome  to  the  person  and  ridiculous  to 
the  world. 

I  am  sorry  poor  Miss  Viney  suflfers  so  much ;  but  the 
strength  and  excellence  of  her  mind  make,  up  for  the 
weakness  of  her  body,  and  when  Providence  sees  fit 
to  restore  her  to  her  health,  she  will  know  how  to 
enjoy  the  blessing  with  a  higher  relish. 

I  am  much  concerned  for  the  Maid  of  Honour.  My 
tenderness  for  her  has  increased  of  late,  on  my  receiv- 
ing a  very  satisfactory  account  of  her,  and  whatever 
may  be  the  event  of  her  illness,  it  is  a  great  comfort  to 
have  her  confirmed  in  a  right  way  of  thinking.  The 
Prince  and  Princess  have  been  very  kind  in  their 
behaviour  towards  her. 

I  have  not  heard  from  Sally ;  but  my  heart  feels 
for  her,  I   pray  God  her  son's  good  behaviour  and 
success  may  reward  her  pangs !     To  be  afflicted  at 
once  by  the  double  distress,  as  a  daughter  and  a  mother^ 


Digitized  by 


Google 


'op  MRS,  DELANY.  635 

is  a  most  melancholy  situation,  but  her  piety  will 
support  and  comfort  her  I  hope.  Poor  Mrs.  Pointz  !^ 
she  has  had  a  great  loss;  and  though  not  a  woman  of 
bright  parts,  had  discernment  enough  to  know  her  happi- 
ness in  having  such  a  worthy  guide,  companion,  and 
friend,  and  will  be  much  afflicted ;  and  I  believe  Lady 
Sarah  Cowper  nearly  as  much,  for  though  she  has  before 
had  a  much  greater  loss,  I  think  that  does  not  render 
the  heart  insensible  to  those  that  are  less,  but  rather,  as 
afflictions  naturally  increase  tenderness  of  nature,  it 
will  make  her  feel  this  the  more.  I  fear  I  shall  soon 
hear  of  Lady  Westmoreland's  death ;  the  last  account 
of  her  I  had  was  of  her  being  dangerously  ill. 

I  have  just  taken  a  run  along  my  portico  walk  into 
the  greenhouse ;  and  send  you  an  orange-leaf  and  a 
yellow  Indian  jessamine  of  my  own  raising;  I  wish 
they  may  not  lose  their  sweetness  before  they  kiss  your 
hands. 

1  The  Right  Hon.  Stephen  Poyntz,  formerly  preceptor  to  His  Royal  High- 
ness the  Duke  of  Cnmherland,  and  at  the  time  of  his  death  steward  of  his  house- 
hold, died  Dec.  17, 1750. 


END  OP  THE  SECOND  VOLUME. 


LONDOK  :   PRINTED   BT   W.   CliOWKS   AND  SONS,   STAMFOUD  8TRBKT. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Google 


