


THE 

DIARY OF AN INVALID 

BEING THE JOURNAL OF A TOUR 
IN PURSUIT OF HEALTH 

IN PORTUGAL ITALY SWITZERLAND 
AND FRANCE 

IN THE YEARS 1817 1818 and 1819 
BY HENRY MATTHEWS ESQ. A.M. 

FELLOW OF king’s COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE 

talking of the Alps and Apennines 

The Pyrenaean and the River Po — SHAKSPEARE 



FOURTH EDITION 

TWO VOLUMES 

VOL. II. 

LONDON 

JOHN MURRAY— ALBEMARLE-STREET 



MDCCCXXIV 



CONTENTS 

OF 

VOL. II. 



PAGE 

FLORENCE 1 

State of Society in Italy ...... 2 

Cavaliere Servente 3 

The Venus 8 

Italian Language 9 

Fiesole 13 

Italian Spring 14 

Leave Florence for Bologna 15 

BOLOGNA . 16 

Journey to Venice 19 

VENICE 20 

St. Mark’s 21 

Ducal Palace 23 

Fall of Venice . 25 

Albergo Favretti 27 

Titian — Arsenal 28 

Galileo’s Tower 30 

Gondolas — Rialto 31 

VOL. II. 



VI 



CONTENTS. 



VENICE (continued.) page 

Gold Chain Manufacture 33 

Armenian Convent 34 

Leave Venice for Milan 35 

Vicenza 36 

Verona 38 

Napoleon Buonaparte 39 

Austrian Dominion 43 

Plain of Lombardy 45 

Journey to Milan 46 

Arrival at Milan 47 

MILAN 48 

Cathedral 49 

Mint 50 

Amphitheatre 51 

Triumphal Arch 52 

Marionettes 53 

Milanese Honesty 54 

Lake of Como . 56 

Lago Maggiore 59 

Borromean- Isles . 60 

Reflections- on Prescience 61 

Simplon Road 62 

Goitres . . ‘ 69 

Cretins 70 

ThePisse-Vache 71 

Bex — ^Villeneuve 72 

Arrival at Lausanne 73 ,, 

Excursion to Martigny 74 



CONTENTS. Vll 

PAGE 

Inundation at Martigny 75 

■ Mont St. Bernard 77 

Convent of St, Bernard 78 

Return to Lausanne 80 

LAUSANNE 82 

M. De Seigneux 83 

.Government 84 

Revolution 85 

Police 86 

Sabbath 87 

BERN 90 

Swiss Constitution 92 

Lake of Thun 95 

Fall of the Staubach 96 

Grindelwald 97 

The Glaciers 99 

Interlaken 100 

Lake of Brienz 101 

Falls of the Giesbach 102 

Canton of Unterwalden 103 

Cantonal Governments ....... 104 

LUCERNE 106 

Scbwytz 107 

Ecroulement of the Rossberg ..... 108 

Falls of the Rhine 109 

Swiss Manufactures 112 

Zurich 113 

Zug 114 



Vlll 



CONTENTS. 



PAGE 

Rigi 1 15 

Management of Cattle 118 

Lausanne — Swiss Honesty 120 

GENEVA. ............. 121 

Ferney 123 

Voltaire 124 

Valley of Chamouni 128 

Chamouni 129 

Mer de Glace 130 

Album at Montanvert 131 

Album at Chamouni . 132 

Mont Blanc . 133 

Chamberry 135 

Road to Lyons 136 

LYONS 137 

Journey to Montpellier 140 

Sceneiy of the Rhone . 142 

Tain — ^Valence 143 

Militaiy Mania 144 

Loriol . 145 

Revolutionary Horrors 148 

Languedoc Kitchen 150 

Languedoc 151 

NISMES . . . . . . 152 

MONTPELLIER . 154 

Climate . 155 

Party Spirit 156 

Conscription . 158 



CONTENTS. 



IX 



MONTPELLIER ( continued.) page 

Property Tax 160 

Conscripts 163 

Buffon ■» . . 1 64 

The Iron Mask 167 

Rousseau 169 

Journey to Toulouse 173 

Beziers 174 

Canal of Languedoc 175 

Arrival at Toulouse 176 

TOULOUSE 178 

Jean Calas 180 

Battle of Toulouse 181 

French Politics . . . . . . . . . 184 

Theatre 188 

La Fontaine 189 

Law of Elections 192 

^ Recruiting 194 

IMayors — Theatre 195 

L’Ecole Royale . . . ‘ 196 

French Cookeiy 199 

French Cleanliness 201 

Theatre 204 

Criminal Procedure . 206 

New Year’s Day 212 

Party Spirit 213 

Prefect’s Ball . 214 

Mass for Louis XVT 215 

Theatre 216 



X 



CONTENTS. 



TOULOUSE C continued.) page 

Missionaries 217 

Law of Elections 220 

French Revolution ........ 222 

Convent 224 

Profession of a Novice 225 

Missionaries 226 

Racine 227 

French Drama 229 

Departure from Toulouse 239 

Voyage down the Garonne 241 

Anival at Bourdeaux 242 

BOURDEAUX 243 

Theatre 244 

Talma 245 

French Wines 248 

Talma 250 

Leave Bourdeaux for Paris 253 

TOURS 254 

AMBOISE 256 

Scenery of the Loire 257 

State of Society in France 258 

French Law of Inheritance 260 

Versailles 263 

Entrance to Paris 264 

Comparison of London with Paris . . . 265 

PARIS 266 

Restaurateurs 270 

St. Cloud 272 



CONTENTS. 



XI 



PARIS ( continued.) page 

Catacombs 273 

Palais Luxembourg 276 

Chamber of Deputies 277 

Theatre Franjais 283 

French Opera 288 

The Louvre 289 

French Women 291 

Gaming-tables 294 

Napoleon 296 

Fountain of the Elephant . ' 297 

Gobelin Tapestry 298 

The Deaf and Dumb 290 

Leave Paris for Dieppe 302 

French Character 303 

DIEPPE ■ . . 305 

Packet 306 

Conclusion 307 



DIARY OF AN INVALID, 




CHAPTER IX. 

State of Society in Italy — Cavaliere Servente System — 
Italian Language — Bologna — Journey to Venice — St. 
Mark’s Place — Fall of Venice— Gondolas — Rialto — Jour- 
ney to Milan — ^Verona — Napoleon Buonaparte— Austrian 
Dominion — Plain of Lombardy. 

May 16th, 1818. After six days of continued 
travelling, a short season of repose succeeds as 
an agreeable vicissitude. Let me employ a por- 
tion of it in recording my impressions of the 
moral and political state of the country in which 
I have been sojourning. 

The discontent of the people, particularly in 
the Papal and Neapolitan states, is loud and 
open ; — for, though the liberty of the press is 
unknown, they indulge in the fullest freedom of 
speech in canvassing the conduct of their rulers. 
There is indeed ample cause for discontent ; — 



VOL. II. 



B 



2 STATE OF SOCIETY IN ITALY. [maY, 

the people seem every clay more impatient of the 
civil and ecclesiastical oppressions to which they 
are subjected ; — and a revolution is the common 
topic of conversation. If there were any rational 
hope of revolution bringing improvement, it would 
be difficult not to wish for a revolution in Italy. 

A revolution, however, to be productive of 
benefit, ought to be effected by the quiet ope- 
ration of public opinion ; that is, of the virtuous 
and well-informed part of the public ; — and this 
would be, not revolution, but reform — the best 
way of preventing a revolution, in the modern 
sense of that term. But where shall we look, in 
Italy, for the elements of such a reform ? There 
can be little hope of its political amelioration till 
some improvement has taken place in its moral 
condition. How can any thing great or good be 
expected from a people where the state of society 
is so depraved as to tolerate the caraliere servente 
system ? — a system which sanctions the public 
display of apparent, if not real, infidelity to the 
most important and religious engagement of do- 
mestic life. And yet, constituted as society is in 
Italy, this system ought perhaps to excite little 
surprise. For marriage is here, for the most 
part, a mere arrangement of convenience ; and 



3 



1818 .] FLORENCE CAVALIERE SERVENTE. 

the parties often meet for the first time at the 
foot of the altar. An Italian does not expect 
from such an union the happiness of home, with 
the whole train of domestic charities which an 
Englishman associates with the marriage-state ; 
the spes animi credula miitui is certainly not the 
hope of an Italian husband — and the Cavaliere 
robs him of nothing which he is not quite content 
to spare. 

It is, indeed, nine times in ten, to the fault of 
the husband that the infidelity of the wife is to 
be ascribed. This is a reflection I have often 
made to Italian men, who have always seemed 
disposed to admit the truth of it ; but the truth 
is better attested by the exemplary conduct of 
those women, whose husbands take upon them- 
selves to perform the offices of affection that 
are ordinarily left to the Cavaliere. An Italian 
said to me one day, “ Una donna ha sempre bi- 
sogno d' appoggidrsi ad un uomo /” — If she cannot 
repose her cares and her confidence in the bosom 
of her husband, is it very surprising that she 
should seek some other support ? Consider the 
character of the Italian woman. Ardent and 
impassioned — jealous of admiration — enthusiastic 
alike in love or in resentment — she is tremblingly 

B 2 



4 FLORENCE — CAVALIERE SERVENTE. [maY, 

alive to the provocations which she has so often 
to endure from the open neglect and infidelity of 
the man who has sworn to love and protect her. 

The spretcE injuria formcB is an insult which 
has provoked colder constitutions than the Itahan 
to retaliate. What indeed is there to restrain her ? 
— a sense of duty? — there is no such sense. An 
Italian woman is accustomed to consider the 
conjugal duties as strictly reciprocal, and would 
laugh to scorn, as tame and slavish submission, 
the meek and gentle spirit which prompted the 
reply of the “ divine Desdemona ” — 

“ Unkindness may do much ; 

And Ids unkindness may defeat my life, 

But never taint my love.” 

And while there is so little to restrain, the 
effect of example is to encourage her to follow, 
the bent of her inclinations ; and she is attended 
by a licensed seducer, privileged to approach her 
at all hours, and at full liberty to avail himself of 
all the aid that opportunity and importunity can 
lend him for the accomplishment of his purpose. 

These observations can only be meant to apply 
to the higher classes of society, to which the 
Cavalier e system is confined; and it must not be 



1818.] FLORENCE — CAVALIERE SERVENTE. 5 

supposed, even amongst these, that there are not 
many examples of domestic virtue and domestic 

r 

happiness ; — or that husbands and wives may not 
be found in Italy, as in other places, fondly and 
faithfully attached to each other. Nor is it always 
a criminal connexion that subsists between a Lady 
and her Cavaliere, though it is generally supposed . 
to be so ; but many instances might be cited where 
it is well known that it is not. 

There is indeed a sort of mysticism in the 
tender passion, as it seems always to have existed 
in this country, which it is difficult to understand 
or explain. Platonic love, in the verses of Pe- 
trarch, if indeed Petrarch’s love were Platonic, 
glows with a rapturous warmth, which often 
speaks the very language of a grosser feeling ; 
while the most depraved of all passions has been 
clothed with a tenderness and delicacy of senti- 
ment and expression which would seefii to belong 
only to our purest affections. Witness Horace’s 
address to Ligurinus : — 

Sed cur heu Ligurine, cur 

Manat rara meas lacrima per genas ? 

Cur facunda parum decoro 

Inter verba cadit lingua silentio ? 



6 FLORENCE — CAVALIERE SERVENTE. [maY, 

What can be more tender, unless it be Pope’s 
beautiful imitation — 

But why — ah ! tell me— ah ! too dear ! 

Steals down my cheek th’ involuntary tear ? 

Why words so flowing, thoughts so free, 

Stop or turn nonsense at one glance of thee ? 

But to return ; — the Cavaliere system must ever 
remain the great moral blot in the Italian cha- 
racter ; — and yet, this system, founded as it is in 
the violation of all laws and feelings, has its own 
peculiar regulations, which it would be an un- 
pardonable breach of etiquette to transgress. 
The Lady must not have children by her Para- 
mour; — at least, the notoriety of such a fact 
would be attended with the loss of reputation. 
What can be said of a state of society that can 
tolerate such things, but — “ Reform it altogether.” 
I am afraid the morals of England will not de- 
rive much benefit from familiarizing our country- 
w'omen to hear these connexions talked of, as 
they constantly are, without censure or surprise. 
It would be impossible, however, to introduce the 
system into England as it exists here. 

Few Englishmen would be found to bear the 



1818.] FLORENCE — CAVALIERE SERVENTE. 7 

yoke that is here imposed on a Cavaliere. An 
Italian without pursuit or profession, may find in 
this philandering drudgery a pleasant mode of 
employing his time ; but in England, politics and 
field-sports would, if no better feelings or principles 
should oppose its introduction, be in themselves 
sufficient to interfere with such a system of female 
supremacy. But though much may be feared 
from familiarity with vice, I would rather hope 
that a nearer contemplation of its evil conse- 
quences will induce them to cling with closer 
affection to the moral habits and institutions of 
their own country, where the value of virtue and 
fidelity is still felt and appreciated as it ought to 
be ; — and to cultivate with increasing vigilance all 
those observances, which have been wisely set up 
as bulwarks to defend and secure the purity of 
the domestic sanctuary. 

I remember Fuller says — “ Travel not beyond 
the Alps. Mr. Ascham did thank God that he 
was but nine days in Italy ; wherein he saw in 
one city more liberty to sin, than in London he 
had ever heard of in nine years. That some of 
our gentry have gone thither and returned thence, 
without infection, I more praise God than their 
adventure.” If he entertained apprehensions for 



8 FLORENCE — THE VENUS. [mAY, 

the “ travel tainted” gentry of his time, we may 
well feel anxiety for the ladies of our own ; feel- 
ing, as we must, that it is to the female virtues of 
England we should look, not only for the happi- 
ness of our homes — but also for the support of 
that national character, which has led to all our 
national greatness for the character of a nation 
is ever mainly determined by the institutions of 
domestic life ; — and it is to the influence of ma- 
ternal precept and maternal example upon the 
mind of childhood, that all the best virtues of 
manhood may ultimately be traced. 

17th. The Venus pleases me more than ever. 
There is nothing in Rome, or elsewhere, that can 
be compared with her. There is that mysterious 
something about her, quod nequeo monstrare, et 
sentio tantum, impressed by the master-touch, 
which is as inexplicable as the breath of life. It is 
this incommunicable something, which no copy or 
cast, however accurate, is able to catch. I doubt 
whether the same thing can be observed of the 
Apollo; whence I am inclined to believe the 
notion, which, it is said, was first started by 
Flaxman — that the Apollo itself is but a copy. 
The style of the finishing has certainly not the 
air of an original work; — it possesses little of 



1818.] FLORENCE — ITALIAN LANGUAGE. 9 

that indefinable spirit and freedom, which are the 
characteristics of those productions in which the 
author follows only the conceptions of his own 
mind. The form and disposition of the dra- 
pery are said to afford technical evidence of the 
strongest kind, that the statue must have been 
originally executed in bronze ; and the materials 
of which the Apollo is composed, which, it seems, 
are at last determined to be Italian marble, favour 
the same opinion. 

18th. The Tuscan dialect sounds harshly, and 
almost unintelligibly, after the soft and sonorous 
cadence of the Roman pronunciation. However 
pure the lingua Toscana maybe, the hoccaltomana 
seems necessary to give it smoothness. It is de- 
lightful to listen to the musical flow of the words, 
even independently of their sense. Then how 
pretty are their diminutives! What answer could 
be invented more soothing to impatient irritability 
than — “ momentino, Signore !" The Romans how- 
ever are too apt to fall into a sort of sing-song 
recitative, while the Tuscans — that is, the loM^er 
orders — offend you with a guttural rattle, not 
unlike the Welsh. There is perhaps no country 
where the dialects vary more than in the different 
provinces of Italy. The language of Naples and 



10 FLORENCE — ITALIAN LANGUAGE. [mAY, 

the Milanese is a sort of Babylonish jargon, little 
better than gibberish. The origin of the Italian 
language has long been a subject of discussion. 
The literati of Florence are fond of tracing it up 
to Etruscan antiquity. We know that Etruria 
had a language of its own, distinct from the Latin. 
This was the language in which the Sybil was 
supposed to have delivered her oracles, and in 
which the augurs interpreted the mysteries of 
their profession. Livy says, “ Habeo auctores, 
vulgo turn Romanos pueros, sicut nunc Greeds, ita 
Etruscis Uteris erudiri solitos” This language is 
by some supposed to have continued to exist 
during the whole time of the Romans, as the 
sermo vulgaris — the patois — which was in com- 
mon use amongst the peasantry of the country ; 
while the Latin was confined to the higher classes, 
and the capital ; — to the senate, the forum, the 
stage, and to literature. 

This opinion does not seem entirely destitute 
of probability. We have living evidence in our 
own island of the difficulty of changing the lan- 
guage of a people. In France too, till within the 
last half century, the southern provinces were 
almost utterly ignorant of French ; and, even at 
present, the lower classes of the peasantry never 



11 



1818 .] FLORENCE — ITALIAN LANGUAGE. 

speak French, but continue to make use of a 
patois of the old Provencal language. 

In like manner it is supposed by many, that 
pure Latin was confined to the capital and to 
high life ; while the ancient Etruscan, which had 
an additional support in being consecrated to the 
service of religion, always maintained its ground 
as the colloquial patois of the greatest part of 
Italy. Thus, when Rome fell, the polished lan- 
guage of the capital fell with it ; but the patois of 
the common people remained, and still remains, 
in an improved edition, in the language of modern 
Italy. For, if this be not so, we must suppose, 
first, that the Etruscan was rooted out by the 
Latin, and that the Latin has again yielded in its 
turn to a new tongue. But innovations in lan- 
guage are the slowest of all in working their 
way ; and if the pure Latin of the classics had 
ever been the colloquial language of the common 
people, some living evidence of it would surely 
have been discovered, as we now find the ancient 
language of the Britons lingering in the fastnesses 
of Wales and Cornwall; but no information is 
handed down to us by which we can ascertain 
when Latin was the common spoken language of 
Italy, or at what period it ceased to exist. 



12 FLORENCE ITALIAN LANGUAGE. [mAY, 

Still however, on the other hand, it is perhaps 
equally extraordinary, that we should meet with 
no traces of this colloquial patois in the writings 
of the ancients. Some allusion indeed is made 
by Quintilian, to the sermo militaris — a dialect in 
use among the soldiery ; — but if the language of 
the common people was so distinct as it is sup- 
posed, it is strange that we do not find more 
direct mention of it; especially in the plays of 
Plautus, who with his love of broad humour, 
might naturally have been expected, after the 
example of Aristophanes, to have availed himself 
of such a source of the ridiculous. And when 
one reads in modern Italian such lines as the fol- 
lowing, the parent language seems to stand con- 
fessed in the identity of the resemblance : 

In mare irato, in subita procella 
Invoco te nostra benigna Stella. 

Or, again. 

Vivo in acerba pena, in mesto orrore, 

Quando te non imploro, in te non spero, 

Purissima Maria, et in sincero 
Te non adoro, et in divino ardore. 

These lines however were probably studiously 
composed in this indiscriminate character ; — and 



FLORENCE — FIESOLE. 



13 



1818.] 

they might be counterbalanced by examples of 
early Roman inscriptions, which certainly bear 
more affinity to the modern Italian than to the 
Latin; — and this would seem to show that the 
two languages might have existed and gone on 
progressively together. After considering there- 
fore all that is urged by opposite writers on this 
subject, one is reduced to the conclusion of Sir 
Roger de Coverley, of happy memory; — that 
much may be said on both sides. Thus much is 
certain ; that at least the guttural accent of Tus- 
cany is as old as Catullus, who has ridiculed it in 
one of his epigrams : 

Chommoda dicebat, si quando commoda vellet 
Dicere, et hinsidias, Arrius insidias. 

19th. An evening at Fiesole — which is situated 
on a commanding eminence, about three miles 
distant from Florence. The country is now in the 
highest beauty. Spring is the season for Italy. 
We have little Spring or Summer in England — 
except in Thomson’s Seasons. Climate, if it do 
not constitute the happiness, is a very important 
ingredient in the comfort, of life. An evening or 
night, in an Italian villa, at this season of night- 
ingales and moonlight, is a most delicious treat. 



14 ITALIAN SPRING. [mAY, 

How could Sliakspeare write as he has done, 
without having been in Italy ? Some of his garden 
scenes breathe the very life of reality. And yet 
if he had been here, I think he would not have 
omitted all allusion to the fire-fly, a little flitting 
insect, that adds much to the charm of the scene. 
The whole garden is illuminated by myriads of 
these sparkling lights, sprinkled about with as 
much profusion as spangles on a lady’s gown. 

There is something delightfully pleasant in the 
voluptuous languor which the soft air of an Italian 
evening occasions ; — and then the splendour of 
an Italian sun-set ! I shall never forget the im- 
pression made upon me by a particular evening. 
The sun had just gone down, leaving the whole 
sky dyed with the richest tints of crimson — while 
the virgin snows of the distant mountains were 
suffused with blushes of “ celestial rosy red 
when, from an opposite quarter of the heavens, 
there seemed to rise another sun, as large, as 
bright, and as glowing, as that which had just 
departed. It was the moon at the full ; — and the 
illusion was so complete, that it required some 
few moments to convince me that I was not in 
Fairy Land. 

But one season is wanting; there is no in- 



1818.] LEAVE FLORENCE FOR BOLOGNA. 15 

terval between clay and night ; and the “ sober 
livery” of gray twilight is here unknown. Night, 
however, of which we know little in England, 
but as it is connected with fire and candle, is now 
the most charming period of the whole twenty- 
four hours ; and there are no unwholesome dews, 
no sore-throat bringing damps, to disturb your en- 
joyment with fears of to-morrow’s consequences. 

20th. Left Florence at day-break, travelling 
as before in a voiturier’s carriage ; indeed, little 
would be gained in point of speed by travelling 
post, between this place and Bologna: for the 
road is so hilly, that you must necessarily be 
limited to a foot-pace. I was stopped at the 
custom-house on re-entering the Papal dominions, 
where they obliged me to pay the full value of a 
parcel of Italian books, which I had with me, 
giving me an order to receive the same again at 
the frontier custom-house, when I should quit the 
Pope’s dominions. It was explained to me that 
this was merely intended as a necessary pre- 
caution; — for it might be that I was a book- 
merchant, and wished to sell these books in the 
Pope’s territories, without paying the entrance 
duties. As there seemed no help for it, I was 
obliged to comply with the demand ; and take 



16 



BOLOGNA. 



[may, 

the officer’s word that the scrap of paper he gave 
me would reproduce my money at the opposite 
extremity of his Holiness’s territories. 

We slept at the half-way house between Flo- 
rence and Bologna. 

Slst. Wild romantic road over the Apennines ; 
— recalling the descriptions of Mrs. Radcliffe in 
her Romance of Udolpho. Reached Bologna 
early in the morning. Grand fete of Corpus 
Christi. All the streets were hung with satin, 
and covered in with splendid awnings, which on 
this occasion were of more use against the rain 
than the sun. 

One of the most striking ornaments of the town 
is John of Bologna’s bronze Neptune, who pre- 
sides over a fountain in the great square; but 
there is a poverty of water, and Neptune seems 
here — out of his element. 

22d. The more you travel, the less you will 
rely upon the descriptions of guides and itinera- 
ries. There are no degrees in their descriptions, 
and all you collect from them, in general, is the 
ignorance of the compilers. One of these com- 
pares the leaning lump of brick at Bologna, 
which looks like the chimney of a steam engine 
blown a little out of the perpendicular, to the 



BOLOGNA. 



17 



1818.] 

t 

graceful and elegant tower of Pisa. Bologna is 
very rich in paintings ; — the works of Guido, col- 
lected here, have shown him to me in a new 
light ; and have convinced me that I had not 
hitherto formed a just estimate of his merit. 
There is a force and grandeur in some of these, 
of which the generality of his pictures gives little 
indication. The Crucifixion^ and the Massacre 
of the Innocents^ are specimens of the highest 
-excellence of composition and execution.* 

It is necessary to come to Bologna, to appreciate 
properly the excellence of Guido, Domenichino, 
and the fraternity of Caracci. The Persecution 
of the Albigenses^ by Domenichino — a magnificent 
picture. A Madonna, by Ludovico Caracci — ex- 
quisitely elegant ; — but then it is the elegance and 
refinement of a woman of fashion. She is not the 
Madonna, such as Raphael has represented her, 
and such as she will ever exist personified in the 
imagination of him who has seen Raphael’s pic- 
tures. A Transfiguration, by the same painter — 
an admirable conception of a subject which, with 
reverence to Raphael be it spoken, does not seem 
adapted to painting. 

* The 8t. Peter- and St. Paul, which is at Milan, is 
another specimen of Guido’s best' nianner. 



VOL. II. 



C 



18 BOLOGNA. [may, 

The Cecilia of Raphael has, I suspect, been 
re-touched, and spoilt, at Paris. 

Bologna is a clean and well-built town ; though 
the arcades, which project in front of the houses, 
give it a heavy appearance. The fish-market is 
excellently arranged, with streams of water run- 
ning through it, securing cleanliness. 

This is a country famous for the excellence of 
its frogs, though the French alone bear the re- 
proach of eating them ; — if reproach there be in 
eating a very excellent dish. 

The reproach might, perhaps, with more reason 
be directed against the prejudice that prevents us 
from availing ourselves of the plentiful provision 
which nature has put within our reach. But I 
suppose nothing would induce the lower classes 
in England to have recourse to such means of sub- 
sistence, however wholesome and nutritious. 

The fish-market was full of frogs, ready pre- 
pared for dressing, and trussed upon skewers ; in 
the manner described in a simile of Ariosto, where 
he says, that Orlando spitted his enemies upon 
his spear — like frogs upon a skewer. 

After a long morning of picture-gazing and 
sight-seeing, I contrived to reach Tedo in the 
evening, on my way to Venice. 



1818.] JOURNEY TO VENICE. 19 

23d. Halted at noon at Ferrara — a large dull 
dilapidated town ; which contains nothing to 
interest or detain you, unless you can derive 
pleasure from visiting the prison in which Tasso 
was confined, and expectorating a few impreca- 
tions against the tyranny of his oppressor ; 
though, perhaps, after all, the more recent opinion 
may be better founded — that Alphonso confined 
the insane poet out of pure good will. 

Reached Ponte Lago-scuro early in the even- 
ing, the last town of the Papal territory ; where 
I was agreeably surprised by the recovery of my 
deposit-money, without deduction or difficulty ; — 
and so good bye to the Pope and the Cardinals ! 
— with whom I wish to part in charity and good 
humour ; though it is difficult to preserve those 
feelings towards them, amidst the constant vexa- 
tions to which one is subjected in travelling 
through their dominions. 

Quitted my carriage at Lago-scuro ; and cross- 
ing the Po — which is here much like the Thames 
at Putney — agreed with the Venetian courier for 
a place in his boat to Venice. The fare is 17 
francs 25 cents ; and for this he not only conveys 
yourself and your baggage a distance of 80 miles, 
but also provides a table for you on the way. 

c 2 



20 



VENICE. 



[may, 



Excellent boat; — the cabin fitted up with a 
settle on each side the table, in which a seat was 
elbowed in for each person. 

24th. On mounting the deck this morning at 
sun-rise, I found we had glided about forty miles 
down the stream in the course of the night, and 
were at the gate of the lock, where we were to 
quit the Po, to enter a canal, which connects this 
river with the Adige. From the height of the 
Po, it was judged unsafe to open the gate of the 
lock, for fear of inundating the whole country ; 
so that we were obliged to wait till the courier 
from Venice arrived with his boat on the other 
side of the gate. 

This occasioned a delay of five hours ; and 
when he did come, we had to shift passengers and 
baggage on both sides. 

We soon got into the Adige; after floating 
down which for a few miles, we entered another 
canal, which brought us into one of the lagune 
that lead to Venice. 

The accommodations of the passage-boat must 
be greatly improved since Arthur Young’s time, 
whose description had almost deterred me from 
venturing the experiment. Every thing was well 
managed ; our courier gave us an admirable din- 



VENICE — ST. mark’s. 



21 



1818.] 

ner ; and at sun-set we caught a glimpse of the 
domes of Venice, rising out of the sea. 

It was midnight before we reached the post- 
office. 

25 th. Breakfasted at a cafe in the Piazza of 
St. Mark. After threading a narrow line of alleys, 
not half the width of that of Cranbourne, I came 
unexpectedly upon this grand square, the first 
sight of which is very striking. It would be dif- 
ficult to compare it with any thing. It is unique ; 
rich, venerable, magnificent. The congregation 
of all nations, in their various costumes, who 
lounge under the purple awnings of the cafes — 
smoking, playing at chess, and quaffing coffee — 
add much to its embellishment, and are in cha- 
racter with the buildings; where all orders -ef 
architecture seem jumbled together. The cathe- 
dral certainly belongs to no single one ; — it is of 
a mixed breed, between a Mahometan mosque and 
a Christian church ; but, when it was built, the. 
imaginations of the Venetians were full of Con- 
stantinople, and the glorious exploits of Dandolo. 
The famous horses which he brought in triumph 
to Venice, as the trophies of his conquest of Con- 
stantinople, have again resumed their place over 
the portal of the cathedral. 



^2 VENICE — ST. mark’s. [mAY, 

In this age of scepticism, it is doubted whether 
these are indeed the famous horses of Lysippus 
which have made so much noise in history, con- 
nected with the names of Nero, Trajan, and Con- 
stantine ; and a passage is quoted from the Byzan- 
tine Fathers, to prove that they were cast at Chios, 
so late as the fourth century. However this be, 
I think they are scarcely worth the trouble that 
has been taken about them, that is, for any merit 
they have as representations of horses ; — though, 
if their identity be made out, they are great 
curiosities, as historical memorials of the rapacity 
of conquerors, and the instability of fortune. 
The fashion of hogging the mane, ugly as it is, 
may plead the example of these horses in its 
favour. They were reinstated in their former 
place at Venice, with great pomp and ceremony; 
and the Emperor Francis has recorded in a 
golden inscription, the robbery of the French, 
and his own triumph : 

QUATUOR EQUORUM SIGNA A VENETIS BYZANTIO 

CAPTA, AD TEMP. D. MAR. A. R. S. MCCIV POSITA 

QUiE HOSTILIS CUPIDITAS A. MDCCCIII ABSTULERAT 

FRANC. I. IMP. PACIS ORBI DAT.E TROPH.EUM A. 

MDCCCXV VICTOR REDUXIT. 

I rejoice that the horses have been restored. 



1818.] VENICE — DUCAL PALACE. 23 

and that France has been made to disgorge all 
her plunder; but they should not throw stones 
who live in a house of glass. The French had 
surely as much right to take them from Venice, 
as Dandolo had to bring them thither; — in both 
cases, it was but the right of the strongest. 

Before the door of the cathedral stand three 
bare poles, where formerly the flags of Crete, 
Cyprus, and the Morea, the three vassal king- 
doms of the haughty republic, floated in the 
wind. 

26th. Though there is enough in the historical 
recollections of Venice, to invest it with great 
interest, yet there is a further and more powerful 
fascination in its scenery, which is derived from 
the magic illusions of poetry. 

At least, in my own case, I confess that I 
thought more of Shakspeare and Otway — Othello 
and Shy lock — Pierre and Jaffier — than of Dan- 
dolo and all his victories. It is wonderful how 
place aids the effect of poetry. Went over the 
Ducal Palace, and sat in the seat of the Doge. 
The hall, where the senate used to assemble, 
remains in its ancient state. The chamber in 
which the famous Council of Ten held their 



24 VENICE — DUCAL PALACE. [mAY, 

meetings was converted by Napoleon into a Court 
of Cassation. 

The hall of the general assembly is now a 
library ; where there are some beautiful remains of 
ancient sculpture. 'The rape of Ganymede is 
an exquisite little morsel, and is thought to be the 
work of Phidias himself. Leda and her Swan is 
a hijou in the same taste. It is surprising that 
the French, who knew so well what to steal, 
should have overlooked two articles that might 
have been so easily carried away. 

The famous lion’s mouth is destroyed. The 
bridge of Sighs — il Ponte dei Sospiri — connects 
the ducal palace with the state-prison. Criminals 
were brought through a covered way over this 
bridge, from their dungeons, to the tribunal of 
the Council of Ten. Criminal proceedings are 
still carried on in secret, and I saw to-day a 
man being conducted back to prison after trial, 
through the covered passage over the bridge of 
Sighs. 

It is impossible to walk through these splendid 
chambers, decorated with pictures commemorating 
the most brilliant achievements, and the most sig- 
nal examples, of the ancient power and glory of 



FALL OF VENICE. 



25 



1818 .] 



the Venetian republic, without feehng sorrow for 
its present condition. The only consolation the 
people seem to feel is something like king Ar- 
thur’s in Tom Thumb, who congratulates himself 
that he has at least outlived all his neighbours ; 



“ Thus all our pack upon the floor is cast. 

And my sole boast is, that I die the last/' 

Thus, the Venetians appeal with triumph to 
their fourteen centuries of power ; — a longer 
duration than that enjoyed by any other people 
on record. Fourteen centuries were indeed a 
pretty long reign ; but, in fact, the republic had 
ceased to exist before the invasion of the French. 
Napoleon gave the co2ip de grace, but the life of 
the commonwealth was already expiring. The 
government had degenerated into an oligarchical 
tyranny, of all tyrannies the most detestable ; and 
the people had nothing left to fight for. It is 
ever thus ; for it seems, that there is in all go- 
vernments a tendency to abuse, and it ought 
perhaps rather to excite surprise that Venice 
endured so long, than that she fell at last. 

The Doge and his Privy Council yielded 
without a struggle at the first approach of the 
enemy ; and instead of dying ‘‘ with harness on 



26 FALL OF VENICE. [maY, 

their back,” they betrayed the interests of their 
country, to make favourable terms for themselves 
with the conqueror. Junot delivered Buona- 
parte’s threatening letter to the Doge himself in 
council ; thus insulting him to his face by the 
grossest breach of the laws of the republic. In 
the last scene of all, the Doge had the baseness 
to propose, and the Grand Council had the base- 
ness to consent to, a still more disgraceful com- 
pliance with the demands of Buonaparte; who 
insisted, as a preliminary condition to a treaty, 
that the three State Inquisitors, and the naval 
commander, who had alone evinced courage to do 
their duty in the defence of their country, should 
for this very performance of their duty, be ar^ 
rested and brought to trial. 

A few days afterwards, the Doge and the Coun- 
cil in full assembly, with pusillanimous unanimity, 
voted their own abdication. Such was the last 
inglorious act of a republic that had endured for 
fouteen hundred years — “ Oh lame and impotent 
conclusion !” 

Thus fell the Republic of Venice ; and when a 
republic does fall, — she falls like Lucifer, never 
to rise again. If there had been no hostility on 
the part of the great ones of the world to the re- 



1818.] VENICE — ALBERGO FAVRETTI. 27 

establishment of her free government, I believe 
it would have been impossible to find in Venice 
that life-blood of public spirit, which is necessary 
to restore animation and energy to the body po- 
litic of a commonwealth. A republic indeed can- 
not be restored; it is a constitution that must be 
claimed, and won, by the spirit and courage of 
the people themselves ; and where these qualities 
are wanting, a republic would not be maintained 
if it were restored. It is not every people that 
is fit to be free; and Machiavel has long ago 
pronounced, that to make a servile people free, 
is as difficult a task, as to make a free people 
slaves. 

27th. Established myself at the 
retti, near the grand ducal palace, commanding a 
fine view of the sea. I should prefer this in all 
respects to either of the two great hotels, even if 
it had not many recommendations on the score 
of economy. I give my landlord seven francs per 
day ; for which I have an excellent room, with 
breakfast and dinner, both good of their kind. 
Venice abounds in all sorts of fish;— mullet, 
thunny, an excellent variety of the sturgeon, and 
• the S. Pietro, or, as it is sometimes called , — II 



2S VENICE — TITIAN — ARSENAL. [mAY, 

Janitor e — from which is derived our own cor- 
ruption of John Dory. 

A tour amongst churches and palaces ; but I 
am tired of churches as curiosities to be stared 
at ; and having seen St. Peter’s, I shall content 
myself with the maxim of omne majus continet in 
se minus, and be satisfied with my own parish 
church for the rest of my life. 

Venice is rich in the works of her own Titian ; 
his two most celebrated pictures are the Mar- 
tyrdom of a St. Peter — not the apostle — in the 
church of St. John and St. Paul, and the As- 
sumption of the Virgin, in the academy. 

Connoisseurs have lavished encomiums upon 
, t hese pro ductions of Titian in the grand style of 
composition, but I confess, I.like him better when 
he confines himself to the primrose path of 
dalliance for it is in tjie representation of the 
soft and the beautiful, embellished with all the 
rich and glowing varieties of colour, that he seems 
to follow the bent of his genius, and to paint con 
amore. There are also many splendid works of 
Paul Veronese, and of Tintoretto. 

Visited the Arsenal ; where there were accom- 
modations for building six and thirty ships of 



VENICE — ARSENAL. 



29 



1818 .] 

war, under cover ; — but the ships and the comi 
merce of Venice have vanished with its freedom. 
There is now scarcely a cock-boat in the har- 
bour. The vulgar are taught- to believe, that 
England abstained from exercising her influence 
in procuring the restoration of the Republic, 
from feelings of commercial jealousy. Nobody 
seems to doubt our power to have effected this 
good work, both in the case of Venice and of 
Genoa. But, if it really were in our power, it is 
indeed difficult to account for our supineness. All 
commercial considerations would have prompted 
us to further this measure ; for, excluded as our 
manufactures are from the Continental States — at 
least, as far as the governments can exclude 
them — it would have been greatly to the advantage 
of England, that free commercial states should 
have been established at Venice and Genoa, 
which would have afforded channels of commu- 
nication for the introduction of English goods 
to the whole south of Europe. Austria would 
willingly, if she could, exclude all English manu- 
factures ; but the effect of her rigorous prohibi- 
tions is to put that money into the pockets of 
the custom-house officers, which she would 
otherwise receive herself, in the shape of duties. 



30 VENICE— Galileo’s tower. [may, 

The bribery of the custom-house has been re- 
duced to a regular system, and the insurance of 
the safe arrival of goods at Vienna is negotiated 
upon an accurate calculation of these expenses. 

In the evening I mounted to the top of St. 
Mark’s tower, where Galileo used to hold com- 
merce with the skies. It commands a fine pano- 
ramic view of Venice, and shows you all the details 
of this wonderful town, which rises out of the 
waters like the ark of the deluge. 

The height of the tower is about 330 feet, and 
when you look down to the busy crowds below, 
in St. Mark’s Place, they look like bees in a hive, 
or ants in a molehill, crawling about without any 
apparent object. 

^8th. The gondolas afford a pleasant lounging 
mode of moving about V enice. These light sharp- 
beaked boats glide along with great rapidity. In 
the middle of them is - a sort of tented cabin, 
covered with a black cloth awning, which gives 
them a very funereal appearance. This universal 
black colour was imposed by a sumptuary law of 
the Republic, to check the extravagant expense 
in which it had become the fashion to indulge, in 
fitting up these vessels. At night, they carry 
lanterns attached to the prow and stern, and the 



31 



1818.] VENICE — GONDOLAS — RIALTO. 

effect of these lights, scudding along in all direc- 
tions, while the vessels that carry them* are invisi- 
ble, is very pleasing. 

There are only eight horses in Venice : four 
are of brass, over the gate of the cathedral ; and 
the other four are alive in Lord Byron’s stable. 
The httle island of Lido affords room for a short 
canter. The Venetian women are superb ; — there 
is something peculiarly bewitching in their air and 
gait : hut, I believe, they are but little changed 
since the time of lago, and that still 

“ In Venice they do let Heaven see the pranks 
They dare not show their Husbands.” 

Walked upon the Rialto ; — ^if no more were 
included under this name than the single arch 
across the canal, the congregation of merchants 
before whom Antonio used to rate Shylock must 
have been a small one ; — nor could Pierre well 
have chosen a worse place for “ his evening walk 
of meditation.” 

The fact is, however, that the little island which 
formed the cradle of Venice, where the first church 
was built by the fugitives from the persecution of 
. Attila, was called Riva-alta, or Rialto. Here too 
was the Exchange where the merchants met. In 



VENICE. 






[may, 



process of time the bridge leading to this island 
was called the Rialto, and has at last become the 
sole proprietor of the name. 

In the evening to the opera. Venice is the 
land of late hours : the scene in St. Mark’s Place 
at midnight is more gay and animated than at 
any hour of the day ; and it is after the opera 
that evening parties and conversazioni commence. 
The Gondoliers no longer sing the verses of Tasso ; 
but you are frequently regaled with beautiful music 
from parties of dilettanti musicians, I ought to 
record, as an instance of the obliging civility of 
the Italians, that I met a serenading party in a 
Gondola to-night, singing very beautifully to their 
guitars the songs of a favourite opera. Supposing 
they were professional people, and under the idea 
that I was to make them a recompense, I detained 
them half an hour; and it was not till they 
explained their refusal of any remuneration that I 
found it was a nobleman’s family returning from 
an excursion to Padua. 

The cafes in the Place of St. Mark are brilliantly 
lighted, and you might fancy, when you see it for 
the first time, that it was a gala night of extra- 
- ordinary occurrence. The shops under the arcades 
are very handsome, particularly those of jewellery. 



1818.] VENICE — GOLD CHAIN MANUFACTURE. S3 

*One of the principal manufactures is that of gold 
chain, which is brought to the greatest perfection. 
The price of the chain is in proportion to its 
diminutiveness. I gave twenty francs for a small - 
specimen, not more than an inch and a half long, 
of the ne plus ultra of this manufacture : it is 
worked with the aid of microscopic glasses, and 
seems to be the absolute minimum of all that is 
little. 

29th. I was awakened from my dreams of poetry 
this morning by a sharp east wind from the 
Adriatic; bringing with it, as usual to me, cough 
and fever, attended with a most oppressive de- 
fluxion upon the lungs. What a miserable thing 
it is to depend upon the wind for the power to 
breathe! — especially at Venice, where you are not 
allowed to take what physic you please without 
the assistance of a physician. I sent a pre- 
scription to a druggist, and though the strongest 
ingredient in it was paregoric elixir, fhe answer 
he returned was, that he might not sell so potent 
a potion without medical sanction. 

I thought of Romeo’s apothecary; but my 
friend was less compliant than his, for he per- 
, sisted in his refusal ; and as I was equally reso- 



VOL. II. 



D 



S4< VENICE — ARMENIAN CONVENT. [maY, 

lute not to comply with his condition, I must 
have gone without my draught — which perhaps 
would have been the best course of all — if my 
friend the Vice-Consul had not supplied me from 
the consular medicine chest. 

Passed the morning at the Armenian convent ; 
— a very interesting establishment, where, as long 
as the present librarian — Father Paschal Aucher 
— a man of great learning, very extensive know- 
ledge of the world, and most amiable manners, — 
continues in office, a few hours may be passed 
most agreeably. 

Went afterwards to the Campo di S. Maria 
Formosa to see the house of the proud Priuli;” 
which still belongs to the family of that name. 
The east wind continues with such biting severity, 
that I feel I cannot stay here, and so, to-morrow 
— “ I must away toward Padua.” 

30th. Left Venice in the courier’s boat, and 
arrived at Padua in the evening. The voyage is 
dull and uninteresting. The banks of the Brenta 
are just high enough to prevent your view of the 
country, without possessing any beauty in them- 
selves to render them interesting. 

I found the apothecaries at Padua more accom- 



1818.] LEAVE VENICE FOR MILAN. 35 

moclating than at Venice; — and if I had been 
inclined to swallow poison, I should have met 
with no obstruction. 

31st. Engaged with a vetturino for a place in 
his carriage to Milan. I should have, as usual, 
engaged a small carriage to myself, but the plea- 
sure of this mode of travelling depends much 
upon the state of the weather, and the character 
of the scenery through which you pass. In the 
present case, the rain is pouring down in torrents ; 
and the plain of Lombardy offers no great promise 
of picturesque beauty ; so that I prefer studying 
life and manners in the inside of a vetturino’s 
coach. By the way, these vetturini are the 
greatest scoundrels upon earth, excepting perhaps 
the jackals or finder s,* who hunt down their prey 
for them. This is a regular profession in all the 
towns of Italy ; and a tribe of these fellows is 
constantly on the look-out for travellers, whom 
they cheat of course as much as they can ; — for 
their own profit consists of so much per cent, 

* The Italian designation of the finder is Sensale. He 
fleeces the Vetturino without mercy ; and in some of the petty 
states the latter is obliged to have recourse to him, and not 
allowed to make his bargain for himself ; the Sensale being the 
• agent of the Police, who must also have their share of the 
plunder. 

D 2 



VICENZA. 



36 



[JUNE, 



upon the bargain they make in behalf of tlieir 
employers. 

My companions are a ci-devant captain of in- 
fantry, in the army of the kingdom of Italy, who 
had served in Spain for many years, and who 
retired in disgust when his country was subjected 
to the government of Austria, and two Itahan 
ladies of the negoziante class. We halted in the 
evening at Vicenza. The rain prevented my 
attempting to see any thing, but I console myself 
with hoping that there was nothing to see. 

June 1st. Another day of rain. My military 
companion is a very intelligent man, and we have 
had much friendly discussion on all subjects, 
except politics — or, I should rather say, except 
military topics. It is truly provoking, after the 
achievements of the English at Waterloo, that 
their countrymen should have to fight the battle 
over again, as one ever has to do, when the sub- 
ject is canvassed out of England. 

The truth in this, as in most cases, will be 
found to he in the middle ; between the exagge- 
rated pretensions of the English, who insist upon 
having gained a complete victory, and the ridi- 
culous extravagancies of the French, who would 
wish to talk themselves and all the world into a 



VICENZA. 



37 



1818 .] 

belief that, if the Prussians had not robbed them 
of their prey, they should have annihilated the 
English. A calm retrospect of the objects that 
the two leaders proposed to themselves will, I 
think, show’ clearly how the question really stands 
between the English and the French, without 
embarrassing it with the Prussian co-operation. 

Napoleon’s object was to carry the English 
army by storm, and thus gain Brussels before 
the arrival of the Prussians ; — he pointed out the 
road to his soldiers wdth exultation — he triumphed 
by anticipation in the idea that, at last, he -had 
got the English within his gripe ; — “ Ah ! pour le 
coupje les tiens done, ces Anglais — and so con- 
fident was he of success, that he had prepared 
printed proclamations, dated from the royal palace 
at Brussels. The Duke of Wellington’s object 
seems to have been simply to prevent this, by 
standing his ground, and keeping the enemy at 
bay till he should be joined by his ally. 

This is all that the Duke of Wellington pro- 
posed to himself to do, and this is what he did 
do most completely and triumphantly, proprio 
marte. It is to the having repulsed the enemy, 
and defeated his object, that the claims of the 
English should be limited ; — and this is claim 



38 



VERONA. 



[JUNE, 

•enough. Then come the Prussians, and convert 
this repulse into a rout ; and now, those who ran 
away would fain hope, that between the English 
and the Prussians — as in the old fable of the 
stools — the glory of the day may rest upon 
neither. 

The evening cleared up as w*e approached Ve- 
rona, the environs of which are beautiful ; and the 
town itself has a gay and pleasing appearance. 

The amphitheatre has suffered little from the 
lapse of centuries, and it serves as an explanatory 
key to the great Coliseum at Rome. I have ob- 
served here again, that the mind is more im- 
pressed with the grandeur of what it has seen, 
-by a subsequent comparison of its recollections 
with smaller objects of the same kind, than by 
the actual contemplation of the objects them- 
selves. Thus the amphitheatre of Verona has 
made me more sensible of the prodigious scale of 
the Coliseum, than I was when within the walls 
of the Coliseum itself. 

I went in the evening to the theatre ; but the 
house was dull, dark, and dirty ; and the audience 
seemed to come with any other object rather than 
to hear the play, for they talked amongst them- 
selves as loud as the actors on the stage. 



NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE. 



39 



1818.] 



When there is no sympathy between the actor 
and the audience, nothing can be more tiresome 
than a play. The re-action is wanting, to give it 
spirit ; for when a play goes off well, it is, I be- 
lieve, because the audience bring at least one half 
the entertainment along with them. 

2d. Halted to breakfast at Desenzano ; on 
the bank of the Lago di Garda. On the island 
in the lake are the remains of Catullus’s villa. 
We were now passing over the scenes of Buona- 
parte’s Italian campaigns, and my military com- 
panion was very eloquent in the praise of the ci- 
devant Emperor. It is truly surprising, to witness 
the enthusiasm of feeling which this man has 
excited in his favour amongst those who have 
served under him. My companion spoke of the 
effect of his appearance on the field of battle, in 
its influence upon the spirits of his army, as some- 
thing supernatural. No man could ever act the 
hero better, when it suited his purpose ; and no 
man ever attained in greater perfection the art of 
gaining that ascendency over his followers, which 
constitutes the spell that strong minds hold over 
weak ones. 

He seems to have had a very happy knack in 
speaking as well as acting the sublime. The cap- 



40 



NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE. 



[JUNE, 



tain gave me two instances of this kind. At the 
battle of Lodi, there was a battery of the enemy, 
which was making dreadful havoc amongst the 
French ranks ; and repeated attempts had been 
made to storm it in vain. An officer came to 
Buonaparte to represent to him the importance 
of making another effort to silence it ; when he 
put himself at the head of a party, exclaiming. 
Quelle se taise! and carried it by storm. On 
another occasion, he was giving some impracti- 
cable orders, which were humbly represented to 
him to be impossible; when he burst out — Com- 
ment ? ce mot nest pas Fra7i^,ais. The most re- 
markable feature in the character of this stranee 

o 

being is his inconsistency ; displaying, as he does, 
at different times, the most opposite extremes 
of great and little — magnificence and meanness. 
This inconsistency, however, is sufficiently ex- 
plained by his utter want of fixed principles of 
right and wrong. What can be expected from 
him who laughs at religion, and does not even 
possess a sense of honour to keep him steady in 
the path of greatness ! Selfishness seems to have 
been the foundation of his system, the only prin- 
ciple which he acknowdedged ; and this will re- 
concile all the apparent inconsistencies of his 



NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE. 



41 



1818 .] 



conduct. Every thing was right to him that 
conduced to his own intei*est, hy any means, how- 
ever wrong ; and as his mind seems to have had 
the power of expanding with his situation, so it 
had an equal power of contracting again ; and he 
could at once descend from the elevation of his 
throne, to the pettiest considerations connected 
with his altered condition; accommodating him- 
self in a moment to all the variations of fortune. 
In a word, he was the Garrick of the great stage 
of the world, who could play the leading part in 
imperial Tragedy — carrying terror and pity into 
all bosoms — and re-appearing in the part of Scrub 
in the after-piece, with equal truth and fidelity of 
representation. We might admire the equanimity 
of such a temperament, if we did not find it asso- 
ciated with such a selfish and exclusive attention 
to his own personal safety, as robs it of all claims 
to our applause. After all, he is a truly extra- 
ordinary being — a wonderful creature, furnishing 
the most curious subject for examination to those 
who, abstractedly from all the national and po- 
litical feelings of the present time, can consider 
him merely as a singular phenomenon, an ano- 
malous variety in the strange history of human 
nature. 



42 



NAPOLEON BUONAPARTE. 



[JUNE, 



Whatever we may think of him in England, he 
is the great idol of adoration in this country. 
The people carry a little bronze image of him — 
like a Roman household God — in their waistcoat 
pockets, which they kiss with every mark of af- 
fection : and yet this very people helped to pull 
down the statues of the Emperor at his abdi- 
cation. How is this to be explained, and what 
could have been the charms of Napoleon’s do- 
minion ? Is it the natural fickleness of mankind ? 
or is it that the people were taught to believe, 
when Napoleon should be put down, a better 
order of things would be established ; but finding 
now, that though he has lost every thing, they 
have gained nothing, a re-action has taken place 
in public opinion, and the sentiment in his favour 
is increased, by mixing up their own disappoint- 
ment along with it. 

The Austrians rule Italy with a rod of iron ; 
or, as the Italians say, they rule it as if they were 
to be turned out of possession to-morrow. The 
conscription, the taxes, the rigid exclusion of 
English manufactures, are all continued ; and the 
manner in which their oppressors exercise their 
rule is as offensive to the Italians as its spirit. 
They are utterly without the suaviter in mode, 



1818.] AUSTRIAN DOMINION. 43 

which made the French individually popular, in 
spite of their oppressions ; and the Italians always 
speak of the TedescJii, as la brutta gente.* 

It is impossible not to sympathize with the 
Italians in their complaints; but the domestic 
jealousy of one another, that exists amongst the 
different States, will stand in the way of any 
general effort to throw off the foreign yoke, 
which galls them so severely ; to say nothing of 
that softness of character, approaching to imbe- 
cility, which seems to incapacitate them from 
sustaining the perils of such a struggle. Though 
there is much more firmness of tone in the cha- 
racter of the northern than of the southern in- 
habitants of Italy, yet my companion inveighed 
with vehement bitterness against the apathy of 
his countrymen ; and his constant prayer was, 
that the Austrians might carry their tyranny so 

* The popular sentiment was strongly manifested, during 
the late visit of the Emperor of Austria to his Lombardo- 
Venetian dominions. The Emperor was at the opera at 
Venice, with Maria-Louisa the wife of Napoleon. The au- 
dience were clamorous in their applause, and so particular 
in directing it to the Ex-Empress, that, as the best way of 
appeasing the tumult, Maria-Louisa quitted the theatre. 
The audience however rose with her, and accompanied her 
home, leaving the Emperor of Austria 

“With a beggarly account of empty boxes!’' 



AUSTRIAN DOMINION. 



44 



[JUNE, 



far, as to inflict daily a hundred blows of the 
bastinado upon every Italian; expressing his will- 
ingness to be the first to submit to this discipline. 
Upon my asking him what he meant, he ex- 
plained, that he thought this, and nothing less 
than this, might rouse his countrymen to a ge- 
neral insurrection, to free Italy from the into- 
lerable oppression of their German masters. 

The spirit of the Austrian government was 
signally displayed, in conferring upon a German 
the Archbishopric of Milan, the highest eccle- 
siastical preferment in their Italian territory, and 
worth about 8,000^. per annum. 

We have had some taste of the rigour of their 
police, in the vexatious examination of our pass- 
ports and baggage at every town through which . 
we have passed. 

The captain replies to all my sallies of im- 
patience by a significant shrug, adding, with a 
sort of sarcastic submission to his lot — V& victis f 
and then exclaiming, with an indefinable ex- 
pression. 



“ Exoriare aliquis nostris ex ossibus ultor !” 

We arrived late in the evening at Brescia. 

3d. Off again at sun-rise. It perhaps may 



PLAIN OF LOMBARDY. 



45 



1818.] 



be reckoned among the advantages of travelling 
with a voiturier — with whom “ lucet^ eamus is 
a standing order of the day — that it soon ac- 
customs you to rise at day-break without effort 
or fatigue. Nothing can be more uninteresting 
than the dull flat plain of Lombardy, where there 
is little to please any eye but the eye of the 
agriculturist. The land indeed is as rich and 

O 

fat as land can be, yielding four hay-harvests in 
the year. Besides, the whole plain is almost one 
continued vineyard, and the vine is not here the 
little dwarfish plant that it is in other places, but 
is trained to hang from tree to tree in rich fes- 
toons, as it is described by Virgil. 

The mulberry is the common tree of the soil, 
which is cultivated rather for the sake of the 
leaves than the fruit. These are stripped off, as 
soon as they arrive at maturity, to feed the silk- 
worms. This operation had just been performed, 
and the poor naked trees looked wofully out of 
fashion, at this season, when every scrub of a 
bramble is dressed out in a new suit of green 
livery ; but nature soon provides another set of 
leaves, and the silk-worms get a second harvest. 

Our vetturino crawled along more sluggishly 



46 



JOURNEY TO MILAN. 



lUNE, 



than usual, and we had nothing to interest us in 
the way of novelty, but occasional fields of rice, 
which were a new sight to me. 

Halted for the night at Caravaggio. 

4th. Vive le Roi !— My female companions 
talked a great deal to-day of England, and of 
English manners. They made the same charge 
against us, which is made by all the world, of 
pride and hauteur. In the course of our route 
to day, we saw a chariot at a distance advancing 
towards us. The ladies clapped their hands to- 
gether and cried out, Eccolo ! Eccolo ! Inglesi ! 
Inglesi / I asked them how they knew at such 
a distance to what nation the carriage belonged, 
when they laughingly pointed to the female do- 
mestic on the box. They cannot see the pro- 
priety of the distance which is preserved between 
English masters and their domestics — especially 
female domestics. The sight of a female posted 
on the outside of the vehicle shocked their notions 
of the deference and courtesy due to the sex — 
all considerations of rank out of the question — and 
was considered by them as an unpardonable act 
of high-treason against the divine right of woman- 
hood; nor could I make them understand that 



ARRIVAL AT MILAN. 



47 



1818.] 

tlie Abigail was probably better pleased to ac- 
company her fellow servant on the box, than 
to be admitted inside, subject to the constraint 
arising out of unequal association. 



48 



CHAPTER X. 

Milan — Lake of Como — Lago Maggiore — Borromean Isles 
— Simplon Road — Goitres — Cretins — Clarens — Chillon — 
Inundation at Martigny — Mont St. Bernard — Lake of 
Geneva — Lausanne. 

The approach to Milan is very grand; as soon 
as you pass the gate, you enter a noble street, as 
broad as Piccadilly, with a wide trottoir on each 
side for foot passengers. All this is the work of 
the French. 

Established myself at the Albergo Imperiale ; 
where I have engaged to give nine francs per 
day for my rooms, breakfast and dinner. 

There is something disagreeable at first to 
English feelings, in making a previous bargain 
for your entertainment at an inn; but it is the 
only way of securing yourself from a greater evil 
— a final dispute. Those to whom economy is 
an object, will find their advantage in this prac- 
tice ; for if the inn-keeper is made to understand 
that you do not travel en grand Seigneur, as the 
great mass of English are supposed to do, he 
will moderate his demands to your own terms, 






i 



MILAN — CATHEDRAL. 



49 



1818.] 



rather than allow you to seek another inn. 
Amongst the minor mortifications of a limited 
purse, there are few more disagreeable than the 
necessity it imposes of attending to considerations 
from which the rich man is exempt. What’s to 
pay ? is the only question he need ask upon his 
travels — and the answer to him is of small im- 
portance. 

5th. The Cathedral; — a new cathedral, espe- 
cially if it be built of white marble, as is the case 
at Milan, is an ugly staring thing. In the inside 
there is a curious subterranean chapel, in which 
the body of the Patron Saint, Charles of Borro-^ 
meo, is deposited. He was one of the best and 
most amiable men of his time, and was committed 
quietly to the peace of the grave, amidst the 
respect and regret of his contemporaries, Some 
twenty years after his death, however, his ca- 
nonization took place ; upon which, his body was 
removed from its former tenement, and deposited 
in state in this splendid tomb ; where he is now 
exhibited as a spectacle to every curious stranger, 
at so much a head. This little chapel is all gold 
. and silver, and the saint himself] arrayed in 
splendid robes, is laid in a case of transparent 
crystal. The face is visible — “ grinning horribly 



VOL. n. 



E 



50 



MILAN — MINT. 



[JUNE, 

a ghastly smile” — as if he felt the bitter sarcasm 
conveyed by the contrast of his present situation 
with the motto of his life — Humilitas! 

Went to the Mint ; where you may see in a 
few minutes the whole process of coining, from 
the rough bar of silver to the finished piece of 
money. 

The whole of the machinery is worked by 
water ; that part of it which stamps the impression 
works 1,500 pieces in an hour. The last act of 
the process is verifying the coin. The balance 
used for this purpose is so Vielicately constructed, 
that the eight-hundredth part of a grain is suf- 
ficient to turn the scale. 

Napoleon certainly excelled all the world in 
money-making. His Italian coin is perfect — at 
once handsome, commodious, and intelligible — 
and this last article is of great use to a stranger. 
In our own imitation of this coinage, how is a 
stranger to know that a shilling is a shilling — 
except by inspiration ? In the Italian Mint, the 
coin speaks for itself, and the value is inscribed 
on it in legible characters. 

They still continue to stamp the gold pieces of 
forty and twenty francs, and the silver pieces of 
five francs, with the image of Napoleon. 



1818.] MILAN — AMPHITTHEATRE. 51 

The coinage of the smaller money is discon- 
tinued. 

6th. Drove to the Piazssa Gastello; where 
there was a review of Austrian troops. The 
General rode on the ground, attended by his 
staff most sumptuously caparisoned. The in- 
fantry were all padded out about the chest, and 
skrewed in about the waist; according to the 
fashion that has sprung up, of improving nature’s 
model. — “ Heaven has given us one shape, and 
we make ourselves another.” 

From hence I went to the Amphitheatre of 
Napoleon, capable of containing 40,000 persons ; 
the seats are cut out of the shelving bank, and 
are covered with living turf. Here were given, 
in imitation of the games of antiquity, splendid 
fetes, with horse and chariot races, and naumachia. 
There are channels constructed for filling the 
area of the Amphitheatre with water. 

A grand gala is now in preparation, to cele- 
brate in the same place the birth-day of the 
present Vice-Roy, an Archduke of Austria.’ At 
the further extremity of the town, at the com- 
• mencement of the Simplon route, is the unfinished 
arch of Triumph, which was designed to record 
the glory of Napoleon. 

E 2 



52 MILAN — TRIUMPHAL ARCH. [jUNE, 

The bas-relief ornaments were all finished, re- 
presenting his victories over the Austrians ; — the 
surrender of General Mack, and his own tri- 
umphal, entry into Milan; and these tilings still 
remain, as if Austria thought the piece was not 
over, and that there might yet be 

“ A rare fifth act to crown this huffing play 

when these decorations would be called for. 

• Leonardo da Vinci’s famous picture of The 
Last Supper, in the refectory of the convent of 
the Madonna delle Grazie, is almost gone. The 
magnificent copy of it in mosaic, which was un- 
dertaken under the auspices of Napoleon, is 
finished; hut it has been sent off to Vienna ! the 
excellencies of this great work however will still 
live in the admirable engraving of Morghen. 

Lounged in the evening in the public gardens, 
which form an agreeable promenade. Here is 
a theatre without a roof, open to the heavens, 
where an Italian tragedy was performed. 

One is so accustomed to stage lights, that a 
play by day-light strikes one as a monstrous per- 
formance. And indeed, all prejudice out of the 
question, day-light destroys entirely the illusion 
of the scene ; — at least as long as the scenes are 



1818.] MILAN — MARIONETTES. 53 

made of painted canvass, and the actor’s dresses 
of tags and tinsel. 

If the stage were indeed the marble palace that 
it is made to represent — as was probably the case 
in the ancient theatres, if we may judge from the 
marble of the proscenium that still remains— and 
if every other decoration “ savoured equally of 
the reality” — the light of day and of truth might 
be safely admitted. 

The play was dreadfully dull, and the actors 
imitated nature most abominably. 

In the evening I went to the theatre of Ma- 
rionettes, a very clever exhibition, where puppets 
of four feet high moved about, and performed all 
-the action of the scene with great spirit and pro- 
priety, while the voices were supplied by persons 
from behind the scene; — so that of the two enters 
tainments it would be fair to say, that in the one 
the puppets acted like men, and in the other the 
men acted like puppets. 

7th. Cold wet day. Italian gossips. Uni- 
versal outcry against the 'paternal government'' 
of Austria. By the way, this cant phrase seems 
to be appropriated, as if in a spirit of mockery, 
to the very worst governments in Europe ; unless 
indeed it be taken from the old adage of “ he 



54 MILANESE HONESTY. [jUNE, 

who spareth the rod spoileth the child,” which 
seems to be the leading maxim of the paternal 
governments, in their conduct to their subject 
states. — Engaged a vetturino for twenty francs a 
day, to carry me to Lausanne, by any route I 
should choose, and to pay my board and lodging 
expenses on the road. 

8th. Rose at day-break ; — but my vetturino 
showed the caitiff so strongly at the very first 
step, by a breach of his agreement, that I was 
obliged to determine my contract with him at 
once. 

Breakfasted at a cafe adjoining my hotel. Some 
hours afterwards, in an opposite quarter of the 
town, I missed my purse, containing about se- 
venty Napoleons, which was all the money I had 
in the world. Remembering that I had taken it 
out at breakfast, I immediately set out on my 
return to the cafe; though with very little ex- 
pectation of recovering it. — As I walked along, 
I bethought me of the physiognomy of the waiter, 
and drew the most unfavourable conclusions from 
the knavish expression which I began to recollect 
in it ; and then I arranged the best mode of con- 
ducting my queries, with a view to arrive at the 
truth, in spite of the lies which I took it for 



MILANESE HONESTY. 



55 



1818.] 



granted I should have to encounter. Upon en- 
tering the cafe, however, before I had spoken a 
word, he advanced towards me, with my purse in 
his hand, saying — Ecco, Signore! 

I record this, as one of the many but perhaps 
the strongest instance that I have met with, of 
the honesty of the Italian people. This lad might 
have taken my purse without the possibility of 
detection, and almost without suspicion ; for 
numbers of persons were then breakfasting in the 
room, and many others must have entered it 
during the time of my absence ; and the confusion 
and crowd of an Italian cafe would have made it 
the easiest thing in the world for any one to take 
up the purse with the newspaper that I left with 
it on the table. 

Went in the evening to the theatre ; where 
Alfieri’s tragedy of Mirra was performed. The 
subject is revolting; but Alfieri has managed it 
with great skill, and in the representation there 
is nothing to disgust. On the contrary, I have 
seldom seen a tragedy where the distress is more 
affecting. The actress who played Mirra did it 
to the life; — her first entrance told the whole 
story of the play ; and the part is so managed, as 
to excite pity and sympathy for Mirra, in spite of 



56 LAKE OF COMO. [jUNE, 

the odious passion of which she is the victim. If 
terror and pity be the objects of tragedy, the 
part of Mirra is admirably contrived to excite 
both these feelings in the highest degree; for, 
while you shudder at the terrible workings and 
fearful energy of her passion, the struggles of her 
own native innocence of mind, and the horror 
with which she regards herself, make the strongest 
appeal to your compassion. 

They manage their Theatres better, in one re- 
spect at least, than we do in England. The hour 
of commencement, instead of being the same all 
the year round, varies with the season, — and the 
curtain does not rise till the sun has set. 

9th. Having accidentally encountered a voitu- 
rier, whose carriage and appointments are better 
than usual, I have engaged him to carry me, and 
me alone, whithersoever I will, for twenty francs 
a day ; which is to include the common expenses 
on the road. My first stage has been to Como ; 
and I have passed the day on the lake, enjoying 
all the pleasure that a fine landscape can give. 
Wliat that pleasure is would perhaps be more 
difficult to describe than the landscape itself, 
differing so much as it does in different people ; 
for how much more will one person see in a 



LAKE OF COMO. 



57 



1818.] 

landscape than another, and even the same per- 
son than himself, at different times ! He certainly 
made a notable discovery who first laid it down 
that beauty does not reside in things themselves, 
but in the eye that sees it ; and every eye sees a 
different beauty. I have heard a man argue that 
there was nothing in nature equal to the scenery 
of Covent-Garden ; Dr. Johnson used to say there 
w'as nothing like Fleet-street ; and every man, I 
. believe, thinks the finest prospect in the world 
is that which commands a view over his own 
land. 

But he is little to be envied who is dead to the 
enthusiasm of nature, whose heart and feelings 
are out of the reach of her influence, and who 
is insensible to the tranquil enjoyment which is 
derived from the contemplation of such charming 
pictures as the Lake of Como will present to 
him. 

The spot from which this noble lake is seen to 
most advantage, is from a point immediately oppo- 
site the Flume di Latte, a romantic little waterfall, 
which forms a succession of miniature cascades, 
from a height of several hundred feet, amongst 
the vineyards with which the side of the moun- 
tain is planted. There is a spot, opposite to this 



58 



LAKE OF COMO. 



[JUNE, 



waterfall, from which you command a prospect of 
the whole scene, without the disadvantage of a 
bird’s-eye view. You have the three branches 
of the lake under your eye at once. The principal 
one extends northward, in the direction of Chia- 
venna ; with the mountains of Fal Tellinay and the 
Julian Alps, for its more distant boundary. Full 
in front is the Monte Legnone; which, though 
not ranking, as Eustace ranks it, amongst the 
highest Alps, nor retaining its snow in summer, is 
yet, from its bold rugged form and its insulated 
position, one of the grandest and most command- 
ing of them. To the south you look upon the 
other two branches leading to Lecco,and to Como. 
This branch of the lake, from Menagio to 
Como, is of a very different character from the 
northern branch ; and though it is very beautiful, 
and at once wild and highly cultivated — with its 
banks studded with villas and villages — yet it 
wants the grander features of the northern pro- 
spect. At the villa Pliniana, the well, with its 
rustic masonry, is apparently in much the same 
state as in Pliny’s time, whose descriptive epistle 
is engraven on a tablet in the wall. The lake 
abounds with fish. I came up with the boats 
of a party of fishermen as they were hauling in 



1818.] LAGO MAGGIORE. 59 

their nets, in which was a fine trout of fourteen 
pounds. 

The inhabitants of the country about Como 
have a rage for seeing the world. They traverse 
all countries with pictures and barometers for 
sale; and when they have scraped together a 
little money, they return from their wanderings 
to pass the evenings of their days and lay their 
bones in their own country — a desire that seems 
to be natural to all mankind — “ dulces moriens 
reminiscitur Argos” 

The itinerant Italians, who carry on this traffic 
in England, will nine times in ten be found to 
come from Como. 

10th. Passed through Varese to Laveno, 
where I embarked my carriage to pass over the 
Logo Maggiore to Baveno, while I put myself 
into another boat to make a wider survey of the 
scenery of the lake. 

There is nothing in this, not perhaps in any 
other lake, that can be put in competition with 
the view from that point of the lake of Como 
which I have before alluded to ; but the Logo 
Maggiore is, I think, 'more interesting than the 
southern branch of the Como lake; because, 
with the same soft features in the bosom scenery, 



60 



BORROMEAN ISLES. 



[JUNE, 



there is, in the character of the hills immediately 
on its brink, a boldness and grandeur, which 
heighten the impression of the whole by the 
powerful aid of contrast. 

Amongst this bosom scenery, if the expression 
maybe allowed, are the Borromean Islands; — 
Isola Bella, and Isola Madre ; — the magic creation 
of labour and taste. Originally barren rocks, 
they have been furnished with soil, and planted 
with groves of cedar, cypress, citron, and orange- 
trees, and decorated with gardens, grottoes, and 
terraces. In the midst of this fairy land, which 
might serve as a model for a description of the 
island of Calypso, is the Palace, as it is called ; which 
is not the stately comfortless pile usually de- 
signated by that name, but a delightful villa, 
combining elegance with comfort. I observed 
here, what I have not seen elsewhere ; the statues 
have a drapery of real gauze thrown about them, 
which does not in fact conceal any thing, though 
it seems to do so. The effect is not unpleasing ; 
and, if it be the result of prudery, it is a much 
better expedient than a fig-leaf. 

I could have lingered at Baveno a month, 
during this delicious season ; and I was on the 
point of dismissing my voiturier ; but something 



61 



1818.] REFLECTIONS ON FRESCIENCE. 

is constantly whispering in my ear to hasten to 
Lausanne, where I expect letters from England. 
How are we to explain that presentiment of what 
is to come, or of what has already happened at a 
distance from us, whether of good or evil — though 
chiefly, I believe, of the latter — which every body 
has felt more or less ? It may be doubted how 
much, or even whether any, deference should be 
paid to those secret intimations. For my own 
part, I am not prepared to disregard them alto- 
gether. If it be a delusion, it is as old as Socrates, 
and may rank him amongst its victims. There is 
something strange and inexplicable in it ; but so 
there is in all the links of that mysterious chain 
of attraction and repulsion, affinity and hostility, 
sympathy and antipathy, by which all the parts 
of nature are united and separated. Second-sight, 
as it is called, by which, according to some, the 
fate of the absent has been often so unaccount- 
ably communicated, may be^but one of the many 
pbsenomena of this mysterious system, of which 
we know so little. There may be nothing really 
more surprising in this — though we are less able 
to explain it — than in the common fact of striking 
upon tlie chord of a violin, which produces a 
corresponding vibration in another that is in uni- 



62 



SIMPLON ROAi5. 



[JUNE, 

son with it ; — unless, indeed, we are prepared to 
decide that human heart-strings are made of 
less susceptible stuff than the strings of a fiddle. 

11th. Baveno is on the grand Simplon road, 
which I now entered upon for the first time. It 
is lined on both sides with short granite pillars, 
about the size of a common EngHsh mile-stone, 
placed, in regular succession, at very short inter- 
vals — scarcely more than six feet apart — which, 
on the edge of a precipice, are also surmounted 
with a wooden rail. The scenery soon becomes 
interesting, but it is not till you pass Domo 
d’ Ossola, and begin to wind up the Val Vedro, 
that ypu are introduced into the heart and core 
of the Alpine recesses. 

Near Crevola, where you begin to ascend, there 
lies on one side of the road a vast column of 
granite, wrought from a neighbouring quarry ; 
which was on its way to Milan, to form a part of 
Napoleon’s triumphal arch, when the news of his 
reverses arrested its progress. It is perhaps, in 
its present situation, a more striking monument of 
fallen greatness, than it would have been at Milan 
of prosperous ambition. 

In passing through the sublime and stupendous 
scenery of this part of the Alps, Napoleon will 



SIMPLON ROAD. 



63 



1818.] 

have no inconsiderable share in’ exciting your 
wonder ; especially if you are a disciple of that 
sect which sees nothing sublime or beautiful that 
is not founded on utility. 

For while you gaze with astonishment at the 
monstrous masses which nature has here heaped 
one upon another, in every mode of shapeless 
desolation, and feel that sensation of awe which 
it is the effect of such scenery to produce, by 
impressing the mind with a vague but over- 
whelming idea of the power of the mighty Master 
of nature — It is impossible not to be filled with 
admiration of the man who had the boldness to 
undertake, and the genius to accomplish, a com- 
plete triumph over such fearful obstacles. In 
this, as in many other instances, he has far ex- 
ceeded all former achievements. Hannibal, it is 
true, passed the Alps at the head of his army ; 
but Napoleon not only did this, but, as a lasting 
record of his contempt of all impediments, physical 
as well as moral, that stood in the way of the 
execution of his purpose, he has left this “ royal 
road," by which every puny whipster may do 
the same, without the precaution even of dragging 
the wheel of his carriage. 

This great work does, I think, eclipse all the 



64 SIMPLON ROAD. [jUNE, 

fabled exploits«>wliich Grcecia mendax, or Roma 
mendacior, has handed down to us. Xerxes’ 
adventure with Mount Athos was nothing to it. 
Napoleon has burst through solid rocks, that 
would have defied Hannibal with all his vinegar ; 
he has abridged rivers — in a word — he has played 
the very devil. The rocks frown at you, and 
seem 

^ “ To wonder how the devil you got there 

while they hang over your head, as if preparing 
every moment to come thundering down with a 
tremendous “ ttsSov^s xyXivb'gro,” to punish you for 
daring to invade their secret and solemn solitudes, 
and make 

“ At once your murder and your monument.’’ 

In fact, Napoleon has so catamaranned the 
foundations, that more than one ecroidement has 
already taken place. It is remarkable that he 
never traversed this road himself. It was besun 
and finished in five years ; but it is to be feared, 
from the negligence evinced in repairing it, that 
the indolence or the policy of the present rulers 
may suffer it to fall into decay. 

^ Austria, it is said, does not view with the same 



ISIS.] SIMPLON ROAD. 65 

admiration that a traveller does, the facility of 
ingress into Italy which is afforded by this and the 
Mont Cenis road — the sister work of Napoleon. 
She would much rather increase* than diminish 
the difficulty of access from that quarter of Europe, 
being quite content with her own approach through 
the Tyrol, by way of Trent and Verona. 

This is very natural; and in this spirit, it is 
said, she has exercised her influence with Sar- 
dinia to prevent the further completion of the 
road from Genoa to Leghorn, which had been 
begun by Napoleon. 

I lingered so long on the way, that darkness 
came upon us before I was aware, and I was 
obliged to halt at a wretched hovel at Isella. 

12th. I was glad to rise as soon as it was light, 
and escape, from the filth and vermin of the cock- 
loft in which I had passed the night, to the fine 
fresh morning air of the mountains. 

Soon after leaving Isella, we passed the Swiss 



* As an illustration of this I might notice the vexatious 
requisition of an Austrian signature to the passports of all 
strangers entering the Lombard o-Venetian territory, which has 
delayed or sent hack so many travellers approaching from 
Switzerland ; who, in ignorance of this regulation, often omit 
to get their passports countersigned by the Austrian Minister 
at Bern. 



VOL. II. 



F 



66 



SIMPLON ROAD. 



[JUNE, 



frontier, and after a long ascent, reached the 
village of the Simplon. This part of the Valais 
was incorporated into the French empire, but has 
now returned to its ancient connexion with the 
Swiss confederacy. At the top of the hill is the 
unfinished hopital, which was intended for the 
residence of the Capuchin monks, whose busi- 
ness and occupation it is to assist and provide 
entertainment for travellers, and who are now 
stationed in a less convenient situation. The new 
building is on a very large and handsome scale, 
but the progress of it has been arrested, like that 
of the granite column, by the downfall of Na- 
poleon. There is now little hope of its ever 
being completed ; at least the poverty of the 
state, to which it at present belongs — the Valais 
— is confessedly unequal to such works. 

The zig-zag ascent and descent are so skilfully 
managed, that you may trot up and down, without 
difficulty or danger. The character of the scenery, 
on the Swiss side, is much less bold and grand 
than on the Italian. The Val Vedro contains 
every ingredient of the sublime that can be found 
in natural scenery — Mountain — Rock — Precipice 
— Torrent — Water-fall — Forest — in all their wild- 
est forms ; — but when you arrive at the summit of 



SIMPLON ROAD. 



67 



1818.] 



the Simplon, you are presented with a softer 
scene, and look down upon the verdant valleys of 
Switzerland. The first impression of this land of 
liberty is very favourable. The little cottage inns, 
if I may judge from this of Bryg, where I have 
concluded the journey of to-day, are neat even to 
elegance, and there is in every thing an attention 
to comfort and cleanliness, which will remind an 
Englishman of his own mother country. 

13th. Intensely hot. Pursued my course through 
the Valais ; — but I must cease to “ babble of green 
fields.” As for natural scenery, even sketches con- 
vey but a faint idea ; — and descriptive sketches 
are ten times worse. The poverty of language is 
never so apparent, as when you seek to represent 
by words the infinite varieties of nature. 

Descriptions, to be of any value, should be 
peculiar and appropriate ; but how general and 
indefinite are the terms which you must use, if 
you are obliged to paint in words ; and how little 
is conveyed by the whole catalogue of phrases 
which the most fertile imagination can supply! 
If, indeed, by mixing up these phrases like 
colours on a pallet, you could produce the same 
variety of tints, it might be as easy to represent 
a landscape with the pen as the pencil. All 

F 2 



68 SIMPLON ROAD. [jUNE, 

however that the pen can do, I believe, is to give 
the poetical part of the picture ; by which I mean 
that part of it which appeals to the eye of the 
imagination, in the associations which the mind 
connects with the contemplation of the scene de- 
scribed ; and in this, the pen may perhaps have 
the advantage. But, as to presenting a clear and 
intelligible picture of a complicated landscape by 
verbal description, I believe it to be impossible. 
The best and most picturesque representations 
of this kind, are perhaps to be found in the 
writings of the inimitable author of Waverley; 
but I doubt whether even his sketches ever pre- 
sent any distinct image to the mind of the reader. 
I do not deny that his charming descriptions of 
nature, in her loveliest and boldest aspects, afford 
the greatest pleasure in the perusal ; — all I con- 
tend for is, that the pleasure is of a vague and 
general character, and not derived from a clear 
perception of the particular features of the scene 
described. Slept at Sion. 

14th. There is a great sameness in the views 
in the Vale of the Rhone. The road runs 
along the bank of the river the whole way; 
both pursuing their course in nearly a straight 
line. 



GOITRES. 



69 



1818 .] 

The Cretins are sad disgusting objects. I was 
prepared to expect the goitre ; — 

Quis tumidum guitur miratur in Alpibus?” — Juv. 

It would seem as if nature in these regions 
could not help breaking out into excrescence, 
as well in the animate as in the inanimate part of 
her creation. 

This loathsome appendage has been attributed 
• to many causes. It has been supposed, though 
. without foundation, that it is peculiar to those 
valleys which run from east to west ; and that it 
is not found in those that run from north to 
south. A more general notion has been, that it 
arises from the qualities of the water, which is 
here little more than melted snow. But the more 
probable supposition is, that it is the consequence 
of breathing the damp foggy air which is con- 
densed in valleys, situated between the ranges of 
high mountains ; — for the same disease is found 
in mountainous regions where no snow exists. 

This is the suggestion of Marsden, who, in his 
History of Sumatra, describes a similar disease in 
the hilly districts of that country; where the 
valleys are exposed to the cahoot, or thick fog, to 
the influence of which cold vapour, he very ra- 



70 CRETINS. [JUNE, 

tionally attributes the tumours in the throats 
of the inhabitants. 

Cretinage seems also to be peculiar to moun- 
tainous regions, though the cause and connexion 
are, in this case, still more inexplicable. It is 
found in the Pyrenees ; and also, according to 
Sir G. Staunton, in the mountainous parts of 
China ; and, in these cases, there is no common 
similarity of situation or climate, to indicate a 
common cause — except the single circumstance of 
hilliness. 

It is well for these poor helpless creatures, 
that the superstition of the country causes them 
to be regarded with more than common affection, 
as the peculiar favourites of Heaven ; for, being 
incapable of criminal intention, they are con- 
sidered as exempt from the obligations of moral 
responsibility, and as privileged exceptions from 
the common lot of mankind, who are doomed 
to be born in sin. 

But Switzerland is not the onlyparadise of fools.* 

* Sir Robert Wilson, in his Expedition to Egypt, says. 

In Egypt a fool is worshipped as a saint, and at Cairo they 
have many particular privileges ; but the most singular is the 
superstition which favours them so as to make their chil- 
dren considered the peculiar favourites of Heaven ; therefore, 



THE PISSE-VACHE. 



71 



1818.] 



In Egypt an idiot is held in still higher estimation, 
and even worshipped as a saint : — 



‘‘ If ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.” 



I have been much struck to-day with the neat- 
ness and personal beauty of the female peasantry, 
dressed in their Sunday costume. They still 
deserve the praises which St. Preux bestows upon 
them in his letter to Julie, describing the Haut- 
Valais, and they still retain “ leurs petites coiffures 
noires, et le reste de leur ajustement, qui ne 
manque ni de simplicite, ni d'^egance'’ 

Dined at Martigny ; — afterwards, in my way to 
Bex, stopped to examine the pisse-vache ; a cas- 
cade, of which Coxe says, that “he had seen higher 
waterfalls, but none more beautiful.” Since his 
time — forty years ago — its beauties have been 
diminished by the operations of a miller ; who, 
having built a mill under the fall, found it conve- 
nient to break away much of the projecting 
rock, to prevent the dispersion of the stream. 
The mill exists no longer ; the mischief remains ; 

in the public streets the most virtuous women have no 
scruples to them, and passengers, instead of disturbing, pray 
over their union. A woman so with child is highly esteemed 
amongst her own sex.” 



BEX VILLENEUVE. 



12 



[JUNE, 



— but it is still a beautiful waterfall. Situated as 
it is by the road-side, and therefore accessible 
Avithout any trouble, it is perhaps for that very 
reason less valued and less visited. For there is 
a stimulant in difficulties to be overcome ; and 
indeed it is certain, that retirement of situation 
would give an additional charm to the beauties of 
the pisse-vacJie. Arrived early in the evening at 
Bex, where there is one of the very best inns in 
the world, and truly characteristic of the neat and 
elegant simplicity of Switzerland. 

In Italy all the domestics of an inn are men, 
who perform the offices of waiters and chamber- 
maids ; here it is directly the reverse ; and Avhile 
attended by the Swiss Hebes of Bex, you may 
feel the force of St. Preux’s remark : — “ avec la 
figure des Valaisanes, des servantes mhnes ren~ 
droient leurs services emharrassants^ 

15th. At Villeneuve I came in full view of the 
lake of Geneva. From Villeneuve to Vevay the 
road is beautiful, and every step of it passes 
through the fairy land of poetry and romance. 
The “ snow-white battlement” of Chillon — the 



“ sejour charmant" of Clarens — and “ Lake Leman 
with its crystal face,” beautiful as they are in 
reality, speak to us with more than the dumb 



1818 .] ARRIVAL AT LAUSANNE. 73 

voice of nature, through the glowing periods of 
Rousseau, and the immortal verse of Byron. 

At Clarens, the shrubberies, and walks, and 
the bosquets, so minutely described in Rousseau, 
exist no longer ; they have long since given way 
to plantations of potatoes, corn, 8fc . ; for, as my 
honest host at Vevay observed, in allusion to the 
Nouvelle Heloise — Romances are good things, 
but bread is better.” 

From Vevay to Lausanne you pass through one 
continued vineyard all the way. The landscape^' 
is very pleasing, but it scarcely deserves the 
raptures of St. Preux, who, on his return from 
his tour round the world with Lord Anson to his 
native Pays de Vaud, describes it as “ ce pay sage 
unique — le plus beau dont I 'ceil humain fut jamais 
frappe, ce sejour charmant auquel je li avals rien 
trouve d'egal dans le tour du mondeT 

In arriving at Lausanne, I drove immediately 
to the house of M. de Seigneux, to whom I had 
been recommended, who receives strangers into 
his house en pension. My first inquiry was for my 
letters; — wliich quieted all my. anxieties. Those 
only who have experienced them can form an 
idea of the feelings with which a traveller re- 
tires 4;o his own room, to enjoy alone and at 



74 EXCURSION TO MARTIGNY. [jUNE, 

leisure the luxury of long-expected letters from 
home. 

17th. Paid a visit to the house in which 
Gibbon resided, which is within a few doors of 
us. Paced his terrace, and explored the summer- 
house, of which he speaks in relating, with so 
much interesting detail, the conclusion of his 
historical labours : — “ It was on the day, or rather 
night, of the 27th of June, 1787, between the 
hours of eleven and twelve, that I wrote the last 
lines of the last page, in a summer-house in my 
garden. After laying down my pen, I took 
several turns in a herceau or covered walk of 
acacias, which commands a prospect of the 
country, the lake, and the mountains. The air 
was temperate, the sky was serene, the silver orb 
of the moon was reflected from the waves, and 
all nature was silent.” Gibbon’s library still re- 
mains, but it is buried and lost to the world. It 
is the property of Mr. Beckford, and lies locked 
up in an uninhabited house at Lausanne. 

18th. Excursion to Martigny ; — to witness the 
dreadful effects of the late inundation. The cause 
of this calamity was as follows. Some months ago 
a glacier had fallen down in the valley of Bagne, 
choking up the course of a small river, and forming 



75 



1818.] INUNDATION AT MARTIGNY. 

the head of what in time became a very extensive 
lake. The inhabitants, fearing that as the warm 
weather advanced, this dam might thaw and give 
way, had cut a gallery through the ice to let off 
the water ; by which, if the dam had remained 
firm a few days longer, the whole lake would have 
been emptied without causing any damage. But 
on Tuesday the 16th the head of the lake gave 
way — and down came the waters with a prodigious 
rush, sweeping all before them. 

lapides adesos, 

Stirpesque raptas, et pecus, et domos 

Volventis un^; 

If it had happened in the night, all Martigny 
must have perished. Four hundred houses were 
washed away in a moment, as you knock down a 
building of cards. The poor host of the Swan 
inn, who presided at the table d’hote where I 
dined on Sunday the 14th, was on Tuesday swal- 
lowed up in an instant, in his own garden ; — and 
away went stables, carriages, and horses, in all 
directions. Perhaps it was my good genius that 
whispered me so constantly to hasten to Lausanne, 
and who prevented my halting at Martigny, as 
I had once thought of doing, in order to go from 



76 INUNDATION AT MARTIGNY. [jUNE, 

thence to Chamouny. If it were, I fear I am not 
so grateful to him as I ought to be ; for I would 
willingly have been a spectator of this dreadful 
visitation, even at the risk of being its victim. A 
poor painter was in the valley of Bagne, sketching 
this lake, at the time the dam gave way, and his 
escape was little less than a miracle. He has 
made a drawing of the perils that surrounded 
him. If he were a man of talent, such a scene 
ought to furnish him with materials for a picture 
of the Deluge, which has probably never been 
painted from nature. The scene at Martigny 
beggars description ; — ruin and havoc are every 
where. Water seems to be a more dreadful agent 
even than fire in the work of destruction. The 
operation of fire is at least gradual, and affords 
some chance of escape; but water is a radical 
destroyer, and jumps at once to the conclusion. 
A single fact will be sufficient to convey an idea 
of the rapidity with which the work of demolition 
was effected ; — the water travelled at the rate of 
twenty miles an hour. 

The loss of lives is great, and the loss of pro- 
perty still greater. Those who have escaped 
with life — and only life — are perhaps most to be 
pitied. They have not only lost their all, but 



MONT ST. BERNARD. 



77 



1818.] 

the very ground upon which their houses and 
crops stood, is a desert, covered with a coat of 
gravel and rubbish, and rendered utterly unfit 
for future cultivation. The despair of the poor 
creatures is very affecting ; they rub their eyes 
— like the King in the Fairy Tale when he no 
longer saw Aladdin’s Palace — as if they doubted 
the evidence of their senses. 

What a passing world this is ! and how foolish 
it is to fret and worry ourselves about the petty 
vexations of such a transient existence ; — at least 
such is the lesson which the contemplation of a 
scene like that of Martigny preaches, with more 
than the eloquence of words. 

20th. Excursion to, Mont St. Bernard. The 
convent is situated about 8,000 feet above the 
level of the sea ; and is the highest habitable spot 
in Europe. The approach to it, for the last hour 
of the ascent, is steep and difficult. The convent 
is not seen till you arrive within a few hundred 
yards of it. It breaks upon the view all at once, 
at a turn in the rock. Upon a projecting crag 
near it stood one of the celebrated dogs, baying 
at our advance, as if to give notice of strangers. 
These dogs are of large size, particularly high 
upon the legs, and generally of a milk-white, or 



78 CONVENT OF ST. BERNARD. [jUNE, 

of a tabby colour. They are most extraordinary 
creatures — if all the stories the monks tell you of 
them are true. They are used for the purpose 
of searching for travellers who may be buried in 
the snow; and many persons are rescued annually 
from death by their means. During the last 
winter, a traveller arrived at the convent in the 
midst of a snow storm, having been compelled to 
leave his wife, who was unable to proceed farther, 
at about a quarter of a mile’s distance. A party 
of the Monks immediately set out to her assistance, 
and found her completely buried under the snow. 
The sagacity of the dogs alone was the cause of 
her deliverance, for there was no visible trace ; 
and it is difficult to understand how the scent can 
be conveyed through a deep covering of snow. 

It is stated that the Monks themselves, when 
out upon search for travellers, have frequently 
owed their preservation to their dogs, in a manner, 
which would seem to show that the dogs are 
endued with a presentiment of danger. 

Many stories of this kind have been told, and 
I was anxious to ascertain their truth. The 
Monks stated two or three cases where the dogs 
had actually prevented them from returning to 
the convent by their accustomed route ; when, it 



79 



1818.] CONVENT OF ST. BERNARD. 

afterwards turned out, that, if they had not fol- 
lowed the guidance of their dog in his deviation, 
they would have been overwhelmed by an ava- 
lanche. Whether the dog may be endued with 
an intuitive foreboding of danger — or whether he 
may have the faculty of detecting symptoms not 
perceptible to our duller senses — must be deter- 
mined by philosophers. Be this as it may — even 
the dogs are sometimes deceived, and, with their 
masters, are overwhelmed in the avalanches that 
are frequently falling in the spring of the year. 
About eighteen months ago, two of the domestics 
of the convent, with two or three dogs, and a 
party of travellers who had been waiting with the 
courier from Italy, were lost in an avalanche. 
The bodies of these unfortunate persons may 
now be seen in the Charnel-house of the Convent 
of St. Bernard, where they are preserved, in order 
that there may be chance of their being identified 
by their friends. The coldness of the climate 
tends to retard putrefaction ; but, at this time, no 
feature is distinguishable. 

Buonaparte crossed this mountain with 60,000 
men, with whom he afterwards fought the battle 
of Marengo. He halted for two hours at the 
convent with a few of his staff, and took some 



RETURN TO LAUSANNE. 



80 



[jUNE, 



refreshment, but forbad the soldiers to enter or 
disturb the retreat of the Monks. I saw the spot 
where his life was saved by his guide. Buona- 
parte passed on without noticing the obligation 
at the time ; but, upon his return from the victory 
of Marengo, he sent for the man, and presented 
him a purse of sixty Napoleons. The guide still 
lives, and is called Buonaparte. 

21st. We left the convent deeply impressed 
with the hospitable and kind manners of the 
superior and his brethren. The support of the 
establishment is greatly dependant on charitable 
contributions ; but it has lately suffered consider- 
able loss, by the swindling device of some im- 
postors, who — assuming the garb of the mission- 
aries which the convent is in the habit of sending 
annually round the country to solicit support — 
contrived to levy very extensive contributions. 

In descending the hill, I looked into a sort of 
sheep-cot, about two miles below the convent. 
Here lay the skeleton of a man, in the garb in 
which he was originally deposited. The hat still 
remained on the skull, and his great coat lay 
spread beneath his bones. 

24th. In my way back to Lausanne I halted 
at Vevay, took a boat with three watermen, and 



81 



1818 .] RETURN TO LAUSANNE. 

crossed the lake to Meillerie ; but I sought in vain 
for the secluded spot so romantically described by 
Rousseau where St. Preux is supposed to have 
led Madame de Wolmar, after their escape from 
the storm. 

Rousseau’s description however of the view from 
the lake is as accurate as possible ; and I was now 
in the track of St. Preux — 

Nous avan§ames en pleine eau ; je dirigeai telle- 
ment au milieu du lac que nous nous trouvames 
bientot a plus d’une lieue du rivage. La, j’ex- 
pliquais a Julie toutes les parties dusuperbe hori- 
zon qui nous entouroit. Je lui montrois de loin les 
embouchures du Rhone, dont I’impetueux cours 
s’arrete tout-a-coup au bout d’un quart de lieue, et 
semble craindre de souiller de ses eaux bourbeuses 
le crystal azure du lac. Je lui faisois observer les 
redans des montagnes, dont les angles correspond- 
ants et parralleles forment, dans I’espace qui les 
separe, un lit digne du fleuve qui le remplit. En 
I’ecartant de nos cotes, j’aimois a lui faire admirer 
les riches et charmantes rives du Pays de Vaud, 
ou la quantite des villes, I’innombrable foule de 
peuple, les c6teaux verdoyants et pares de toutes 
parts forment un tableau ravissant ; ou la terre. 



VOL. II. 



G 



8^ 



LAUSANNE. 



[JUNE, 

partout cultivee et partout feconde, ofFre au la- 
boureiir, au patre, au vigneron, le fruit assure de 
leurs peines, que ne devore point I’avide publicain. 
Puis lui montrant le Chablais sur la cote opposee, 
(pays non moins favorise de la nature, et qui n’offre 
pourtant qu’un spectacle de misere) je lui faisois 
sensiblement distinguer les dilFerents effets des 
deux gouvernements, pour la richesse, le nombre, 
et le bonheur des hommes. C’est ainsi, lui disois- 
je, que la terre ouvre son sein fertile, et prodigue 
ses tresors aux heureux peuples qui la cultivent 
pour eux-m^mes. 

The contrast between the coast of Chablais, and 
that of the Pays de Vaud, still remains in full 
force, and, by way of commentary upon the text 
of Rousseau, I might cite the decrees and regu- 
lations stuck up in all the inns of Savoy, since the 
late changes ; where, amongst other arbitrary ar- 
ticles, there is one which strictly forbids any person 
to be seen in the streets after ten at night ; and 
the other prohibits all assemblies from dancing in 
public. Private balls in private families are gra- 
ciously allowed, provided, however, that it be done, 
sans rumeur et avec dtcence” Conversing with 
an inhabitant of the country, I asked him whether 



1818.] LAUSANNE — M. DE SEIGNEUX. 83 

the people were contented and happy under the 
government of Sardinia : “ Oh yes,” said he, “ we 
are as happy as fish in a frying-pan.” 

June 26th to August 15th. A life of idleness. 
M. de. Seigneux’s establishment combines every 
thing that can make a guest comfortable. Mon- 
sieur S. is a gentleman, in the whole extent of that 
term ; and Madame has every quality that a guest 
would most desire in the mistress of such an esta- 
blishment. Amongst all her attractions, there is 
perhaps none more remarkable, than that active 
well-informed common sense, which is awake at 
all times and on all subjects. This is the most 
companionable of all qualities ; especially when, as 
in this case, it is joined with great good-nature, 
and unmixed with a single grain of affectation. 
The house opens into a garden, and on this side 
of it we are completely in the country ; looking 
upon a fine expanse of water, backed by the hills 
of Savoy, with a rich fore-ground of meadows and 
vineyards descending to the lake, which is about a 
mile distant from us. By opening the street door 
we are in the town, and in the best part of it. If 
a man wish to be alone, his own room is his castle ; 
if he wish to mix with society, he will find the best 

G 2 



84 LAUSANNE — GOVERNMENT. [aUG. 

company of Lausanne in M. de Seigneux’s parlour. 
Perhaps society is never so free and unconstrained 
as in an establishment of this kind ; — there can be 
no lurking mistrust in the mind of either host or 
guest, to poison the pleasure of their association. 
This assurance of welcome is well worth buying 
at any price ; and, if either party be dissatisfied, 
the account is demanded or presented, — and there 
is an end of the matter. 

Sterne says, if he were in a condition to stipu- 
late with death, he should wish to encounter him 
at an inn ; — but perhaps Sterne had never lived in 
such a pension as this ; which is the very place for 
a man to live or die, in the most quiet and com- 
fortable manner. 

The Pays de Vaud, of which Lausanne is the 
capital, was for two centuries and a half under the 
dominion of Bern, if such a term can be applied 
to so mild a system of government. For, during 
the whole of this period, it would appear that no 
tax whatever was levied by the sovereign state 
upon the dependent province. 

Bern, in possessing itself of the Pays de Vaud, 
took possession also of the estates, which the Dukes 
of Savoy and the Bishops of Lausanne held in 



LAUSANNE — REVOLUTION. 



85 



1818.] 



this little territory ; and the produce of these was 
sufficient to defray the expenses of the administra- 
tion of the government. 

Things were in this state, when the French re- 
volution broke out. Switzerland was too near not 
to catch the infection ; and the contest between 
the have-somethings and the have-nothings — the 
two great parties into which Sancho divides man- 
kind — ended, as usual in such contests, in a com- 
plete revolution of the government ; which had 
hitherto been confined to the aristocracy, but which 
was now vested in a Landmann, and a representa- 
tive council, chosen by the people at large. 

But it perhaps may be doubted whether the 
Pays de Vaud have not lost more than she has 
gained by this revolution. She has, it is true, 
thrown off the yoke of Bern ; she has gained the 
rank of an independent state ; and she has ob- 
tained a free constitution ; but the public property 
which used to defray the expenses of the state, 
has been somehow or other lost in the scramble ; 
and the acquirement of cantonal independence has 
been saddled with the imposition of taxes, which 
may lead the people to doubt whether their old 
robes did not sit easier than their new. 



86 



LAUSANNE — POLICE. 



[aug. 



Much attention is paid in this, as in the other 
republics of Switzerland, to repress the growth of 
luxury ; and to check by the interference of the 
police all fashionable innovations, which may seem 
to threaten the corruption of the simplicty of re- 
publican manners. 

An English gentleman lately gave a private ball, 
at which the ladies of course continued dancing 

O 

long after the hours prescribed by the plebeian 
laws of Lausanne. The police made some attempts 
to fine all the persons concerned ; but finding it 
difficult to establish the proof, they contented 
themselves with imposing the usual fine upon the 
master of the house. He refused to pay it ; and 
the issue of this question was expected with some 
interest, when it was set at rest by some friend of 
peace, who, as it would appear, secretly paid the 
penalty on behalf of the defendant. He was how- 
ever so indignant, at having been supposed to 
comply with a demand which he considered un- 
just, that he offered a reward, by public advertise- 
ment in the Gazette of Lausanne, for the discovery 
of the person who had thus interfered. 

The religion of Lausanne is Calvinistic ; — but 
though we are so near the head-quarters of “ Bro- 



1818.] LAUSANNE — SABBATH. 87 

ther Jack” — there are no symptoms of that mor- 
tifying and ascetic spirit, which so often distin- 
guishes the followers of Calvin. 

To instance, for example, the observance of 
Sunday. Every body goes to church; and so 
sacred is the period considered which is conse- 
crated to public worship, that it would be an 
offence of which the public would take cognizance, 
to disturb the streets, even by driving your car- 
riage through the town, during the time of divine 
service. 

But, the offices of worship at an end, the leisure 
hours of the day are devoted to rational recrea- 
tions ; — and if Sunday be distinguished at all, it is 
by a more than ordinary cheerfulness and gaiety. 
Music and the common domestic amusements pro- 
ceed as usual, without any apprehensions that the 
recording angel is noting these things down as 
abominations. Sunday, in short, is kept without 
any of that gloomy formality, which seems to be 
thought by some essential to piety : — it is re- 
garded rather as a feast than a fast, — being the 
day dedicated to the preaching of that gospel, 
which brought “glad tidings of great joy to all 
people.” 

The difficulty in this, as in other cases, is to 



88 LAUSANNE SABBATH. [aUG. 

preserve a just medium; to remember the pur- 
pose for which the Sabbath was instituted and 
made holy,” without falling into the sour seve- 
rities which were first introduced by the Puritans, 
— a sect that seems to have borne some affinity to 
the Pharisees of old, who reproached even the 
Saviour of the world, with being “ a Glutton and 
a Winebibber.” 



1818.] 



89 



CHAPTER XL 



Tour of Switzerland — Bern — Swiss Constitution — Lake of 
Thun — Lauterbrunn — Grind elwald — Brienz — Giesbach 
— Lucerne — Schwytz — Valley of Goldau — Falls of the 
Rhine — Zurich — Zug — Rigi — Return to Lausanne. 

August 15tli. The tour of Switzerland might 
well furnish occupation for a whole summer ; but, 
if the object of the traveller be confined to the 
picturesque, a fortnight will perhaps suffice to sur- 
vey the finest features of this interesting country, 
and skim the cream of the landscape. With this 
limited object in view, I left Lausanne, with my 
friend D. in a one-horse Char, which resembles 
an English gig, only that the body is placed, on 
account of the narrowness of the roads, sideways 
between the wheels. For this we agreed to pay 
13^ francs per day ; this was to include the keep 
of the driver and his horse on the road, and indeed 
all the current expenses of the equipage, except 
the honne-mam to the driver ; which should always 
he contingent, and made to depend upon his good- 
conduct. 



90 



BERN. 



[aug. 

There is nothing between Lausanne and Pay- 
erne, our first day’s journey, to excite observation. 

16th. This day’s drive brought us to Bern, the 
environs of which have an air of magnificence, that 
announces the approach to a capital. The situa- 
tion of Bern is very striking. It is built upon a 
bold eminence, at the foot of which runs the Aar 
— clear and rapid — and in the distance, is a bold 
range of the Alps, covered with eternal snows. 
The town is well-built, of handsome stone, but the 
arcades on each side of the street, with their pro- 
jecting buttresses, give it a heavy and gloomy ap- 
pearance. The leading feature of the place is 
cleanliness ; nothing can be neater than the streets, 
which are freshened by streams of water, that flow 
down the middle of them, in channels prepared 
for their reception. 

The Bear is the patron of Bern, and Bruin’s 
portrait, as at the mansion of the worthy Laird of 
Bradwardine, meets you at every corner. A couple 
of these animals are entertained at the expense 
of the government in a court in the town-ditch, 
where a fir-tree has been planted, that they may 
exercise themselves in climbing ; and perhaps there 
is not much in Bern that will amuse a stranger 



91 



1818.] BERN. 

more than the gambols of this ponderous but 
active pair. 

The costume of the women — for the men seem 
to be laying aside that distinctive dress which used 
to characterize the different cantons — is any thing 
but graceful. Nothing can be more absurd than 
the cap of a Bernoise, for it answers no purpose 
of utility, with a broad, starched, black lace frill 
standing up all round it, in which she flits about 
as with the wings of a dragon-fly ; though this is 
a very bad comparison, for the rest of her dress 
gives her figure such a heavy Dutch look, that 
no wings could support it. The character of the 
Bernoise beauty might be given in the description 
which Henry the Eighth complainingly made of 
Anne of Cleves. With a delicacy of complexion 
that rivals the fair faces of England, there is a ro- 
bustness almost amounting to clumsiness in their 
figures, which is irreconcileable with the graces. 
Madame Roland, in characterizing the beauty of 
the women of Bern, says wittily enough ; — “ C’est 
le rosbif des Anglais pour les estomacs a toute 
epreuve.” 

The ancient government of Bern was an ab- 
solute aristocracy; — but an aristocracy that fur- 



92 SWISS CONSTITUTION. [aUG. 

nished the singular example of exercising its 
power for the advantage of its subjects. 

The French revolution, however, and its con- 
sequences, had deprived Bern of the rights of 
sovereignty, which it formerly exercised over its 
dependent states, and reduced it to the condition 
of a single canton in the new federal compact: in 
determining the principles of which, there was 
much opposition between the aristocratic and de- 
mocratic parties, which might have led to serious 
consequences, if the Swiss had not received a pretty 
strong hint, that if they could not settle their con- 
stitution amongst themselves, quietly and peace- 
ably, the Allied Powers would be obliged to step 
in and do it for them. Such an intimation from 
without had a wonderful effect in moderating the 
violence of party animosity within ; and in 1814 
the new constitution was concluded at Zurich. 

The leading principle of this constitution was 
the equalization of rights, not only amongst the 
different states composing the confederation, but 
also amongst the citizens of each state. The first 
step towards this was the abolition of the name of 
subject in Switzerland; and accordingly, the same 
rights were given to the vassal districts, hitherto 



SWISS CONSTITUTION. 



93 



1818.] 

called subjects, as to the cantons to which they 
belonged. This principle was strongly opposed 
by the canton of Bern, which hoped to recover 
its ancient dominion over the Pays de Vaud and 
Argovie; but it was fully established by the 
eighth article of the constitution ; — which also 
provides that the Diet, in whom the government 
of the confederacy is vested, shall consist of nine- 
teen deputies, one from each canton, who shall 
vote according to their instructions, each canton 
having a voice by its deputy. 

By the seventh article, the equalization of 
rights amongst individuals was established by the 
abolition of all exclusive privileges belonging to 
any particular class ; — and thus the triumph of 
liberty and equality, in the only intelligible mean- 
ing of those words, was complete. 

Since 1814, Geneva, Neufchatel, and the Valais, 
have been added to the confederacy ; and liberty 
is thus again re-established in her strong hold ; 
and here at least, amidst storms and whirlwinds, 
and poverty and precipices, she may hope to 
maintain her sanctuary. 

17th. The road from Bern to Thun passes 
through a beautiful country, which exhibits com- 
fortable symptoms of the general distribution of 



94 SWISS CONSTITUTION. [aUG. 

property. There are no splendid chateaus ; but 
the cottages are neat and elegant, and have all 
the appearance of plenty. Every village has it s 
public walk ; and wherever there is a fine view or 
a shady tree, you will find a 'public walk, and a 
public bench; where you may rest and enjoy 
yourself, without being afraid of an action of 
trespass. In short, you see every where a striking 
attention to the wants and comforts of the many. 
At Bern and Zurich, you may find equipages, and 
even liveries ; — but these last are held in general 
abomination throughout this land of equality, as 
base badges of servitude. Bern and Zurich, 
however, are large and wealthy towns, and it seems 
to be the natural effect of wealth and luxury, to 
destroy the true republican spirit. 

At Thun we sent our carriage to the right-about 
to give us the meeting at Zug ; while we made a 
boating and riding detour, through the lakes and 
valleys that lie between Thun and that place: 
and hiring a boat for eleven francs, we embarked 
for Neuhaus. 

The home scenery of the lake of Thun is pic- 
turesque and pleasing, and the range of the Ober- 
land Alps in the distance, furnishes a grander 
background to the picture than perhaps can be 



LAKE OF THUN. 



95 



1818.] 

seen from any other lake in Switzerland. At 
Neuliaus you find people with the waggons of the 
country on the look-out for passengers to Inter- 
laken. Interlaken is a charming village, situated 
in a retired and romantic spot, combining all that 
painters love to delineate, and poets to describe. 
The view from the hill behind the village, com- 
manding the lakes of Thun and Brienz, is superb. 

18th. Morning’s drive to Lauterbrunn. No- 
thing can well be imagined more grand and sublime 
than the scenery of the valley of Lauterbrunn. 
Mountains rise on each side of you ten thousand 
feet high, and a torrent roars at the feet of them, 
tearing its course afterwards through the valley 
with a brawling noise, that alone disturbs the 
solemn silence of this profound retreat. Occa- 
sionally you encounter the summer cabin of a cow- 
herd, perched like an eagle’s nest among the 
rocks; — which seem inaccessible to any animal 
without wings, except the chamois. 

At last, the valley widens a little, and you arrive 
at the village of Lauterbrunn. Here you see 
the cascade of the Staubach, which comes down 
at one fall from a perpendicular rock 800 feet high ; 
— nearly twice the height of St. Paul’s. This cas- 
cade would be the grandest in the world, if the 



96 FALL OF THE STAUBACH. [aUG. 

body of water were greater ; but it is composed of 
so small a rivulet, that it is dispersed into thin 
spray before it reaches the ground. Instead, 
therefore, of the tremendous thunder of a raging 
cataract, the Staubach “ droppeth like the gentle 
rain from heaven,” and presents a picture of en- 
chanting softness and beauty, which I should be 
loth to exchange for any more sublime and terrible 
display of the power of nature. Madame Roland, 
in comparing the fall of the Staubach with the fall 
of the Rhine, has expressed in a beautiful illustra- 
tion the different impression which nature pro- 
duces upon the imagination, as we contemplate 
her in her grand and fearful aspects, or in those 
soft and sunny spots, which, like an oasis in the 
desert, derive additional beauty from the horrors 
that surround them, as in the sequestered seclusion 
of Lauterbrunn. “ II semble,” says she, “ qu’une 
divinite imposante et paisible, ouvre une cataracte 
du ciel, et en fasse couler le Staubach devant soi 
pour s’annoncer aux mortels: — on dirait, de la 
chhte du Rhin, que le maitre des enfers, voulant 
effrayer la terre, la souleve avec le fleuve pour 
manifester son courroux.” 

While we sat at the foot of the rock within reach 
of this refreshing shower-bath, admiring the rain- 



GRINDELWALD. 



97 



1818.] 

bows produced by the morning sun in the falling 
spray, we were surprised by the sound of music, 
which seemed to be a duet of two hautboys ; and 
the echoes of the surrounding rocks produced 
the most pleasing eifect. But here again the evil 
genius of reality appeared to dispel the illusion ; 
— for the enchantment was at once dissolved, 
on discovering the cause of this music in the per- 
sons of two dirty old women. 

Their singing was from the throat, and the 
sounds resembled closely the tones of a flute. It 
is in the same manner that the famous Kureiholent 
or Ranz des Vaches, the national air of the Swiss, 
is sung; which does not consist of articulated 
sounds, nor is it accompanied by words ; but is a 
simple melody formed by the same kind of 
guttural intonations. 

After lingering many hours in this romantic 
solitude, we retraced our steps for some way, 
‘and then turned to the right into the valley of 
Crindelwald. The wooden cabins of the pea- 
santry are in appearance just what Goldsmith 
descril)es, 

“ Dear is tliat s/ied to which his soul conforms.” 

In Grindelwald there is less of sublimity than 



VOL. II. 



II 



98 



GRINDELWALD. 



[aug. 



in the valley of Lauterbrunn ; though the absence 
of wood, of which there is abundance in Lauter- 
brunn, gives a more wild and savage character to 
the scenery. 

19th. We had arrived at Grindelwald in a 
Char with two horses, with an intention of pur- 
suing our course with the horses alone — there 
being no road for a carriage any farther over 
the Scheidegg to Meyringen. But to avoid the 
unprofitable toil of climbing up one side of a hill 
merely to descend the other, we determined to 
return to Interlaken, and proceed by water to 
Brienz. 

All that is worth seeing may thus be seen, 
almost without quitting your carriage, or the high 
road. 

Grindelwald is surrouded by the mountains of 
Eiger, Mettenberg, and Wetterhorn ; but neither 
of these will compare with the Jungfrau, and 
Picvierge— so called from its inaccessible height 
— which are seen from Lauterbrunn. It is be- 
'tween the Mettenberg and Wetterhorn that the 
glaciers descend. These stupendous masses of 
ice, while they command our astonishment, afford 
additional proofs of the wisdom and goodness 
of the Author of Nature. They have been well 



THE GLACIERS. 



99 



1818.] 



described “ as performing the most important 
offices of utility, and while they serve as ma- 
gazines which nature keeps in reserve to re- 
plenish the rivers in Switzerland, the partial 
thaw which takes place in summer maintains the 
freshness and moisture necessary to promote the 
vegetation of those mountain pastures, which in 
this country constitute the chief wealth of the 
inhabitants. As the snow disappears, the flocks 
ascend the mountains following the productions 
of the spring, which rise to life under their feet 
from day to day, until the snows of autumn 
compel them to retire again into the valleys.” 
The life of the Sennit or cow-keeper, is thus a life 
of constant migration. He suspends bells of dif- 
ferent sizes to the necks of his cattle, in pro- 
portion to the merit of the cows ; and it is said 
that these animals are so susceptible of feelings 
similar to our own, that if the leading cow fall 
into disgrace and be deprived of her honours, 
she exhibits all the mortification of wounded 
pride, and of angry jealousy, at the promotion of 
a rival ; — and the question of precedence excites 
as much bitterness in the pastures of the Alps, as 
it can do in the drawing-room of the Tlmilleries, 
or St. James’s. 



100 INTERLAKEN, [aUG. 

j The greatest affection is described as sub- 
sisting between the Senn and his flock, which he 
. said to regard as a part of his family ; and the 
bells of his cows are made to harmonize with the 
Ran% des V aches ^ which is his constant strain. 
It is from the same icy mountains that Switzer- 
land derives its mineral waters, its hot springs, 
its crystal mines, and its cold baths ; which have 
been found so efficacious in the cure of various 
diseases. 

On our return to Interlaken, we had a dispute 
with the voiturier of whom we hired our horses. 
We had bargained for a journey of three days, 
intending to go to Meyringen ; but as we aban- 
doned this plan, and brought him his horses 
back the second day, we thought ourselves en- 
titled to some abatement. He argued that it 
was our own fault that we had not proceeded to 
the end of our journey — and stuck to his bond. 
As it was a rainy day, and we could not continue 
our route to Brienz immediately, we resolved to 
try the temper of Swiss law, and adjourned with 
the voiturier t'o the Bailli of the village. He 
ruled the case between us with ability and im- 
partiality, and I was delighted at the quickness 
with which he seized the real gist of the question. 



101 



1818.] LAKE OF BRIENZ. 

The cause was soon over, and — what seldom, I 
believe, happens— both parties retired perfectly 
satisfied with his arbitration. Having first brought 
us to an agreement as to the terms of our bar- 
gain ; — he decided, that we were bound by our 
contract, "and must pay the voiturier for three 
days ; but he also kept the voiturier to his part 
of the contract, and ordered, that if we chose to 
stay at Interlaken, we might ride his horses as 
much as we pleased, till those three days were 
expired. This produced a compromise between 

the litigants ; and we wished the honest Bailli 

1 

good morning, and a long possession of the 
judgment-seat of Interlaken. 

We paid six francs for a boat to carry us to 
Brienz. The upper part of the lake of Brienz is 
superior to any thing I have seen in Switzerland. 
It is a perfect picture, and completely satisfies the 
imagination ; — approaching nearer to the gaiety 
which is the character of the Italian lakes, as 
opposed to those of Switzerland, which have for 
the most part a sombre and gloomy air. The 
Italian lakes are, as Eustace says, “ on the right 
- side of the Alps” — in a land of wine and oil, 
instead of milk and water — where you have vine- 
yards instead of pine forests, and the villages, 
instead of being buried in liolcs, and thrust into 



102 FALLS OF THE GIESBACH. [aUG. 

corners, as in Switzerland, are hung out in the 
boldest and most prominent situations. Opposite 
to the village of Brienz is the fall of the Giesbach ; 
which has been less celebrated, though it is, I 
think, beyond all comparison the most magnificent 
cascade in Switzerland, and second only to Terni. 
And even when compared with Terni, its in- 
feriority is confined to the volume of water ; for 
perhaps there is more variety in the falls of the 
Giesbach, which comes foaming down with furious 
impetuosity, through magnificent forest scenery ; 
the effect of which is, to break the usual uni- 
formity of a cascade view. The view from the 
Alpine bridge, which has been constructed half 
way up the steep, commanding at once the look 
up and the look dov/n, is perhaps unrivalled. 
It is in a spot like this that we feel the impossi- 
bility of conveying by words any idea of the sub- 
lime imagery of nature. 

At Brienz, a party of female choristers offered 
their services to enliven our evening, by singing 
their national airs. Many of these were delight- 
fully simple and plaintive, and they “warbled 
their wood-notes wild” so sweetly, that perhaps 
science and instruction could have added nothing 
to improve the harmony. 

20th. We hired a couple of horses to cross 



103 



1818.] CANTON OF UNTERWALDEN. 

the Brimig to Sarnen, the road being impassable 
for a carriage ; and for this day’s journey we paid 
thirty-six francs : for in Switzerland they always 
charge you for their horses’ journey back, as well 
as for the journey you perform. Sarnen is the 
capital of the little canton of Unterwalden. If, 
as it has been objected, there is any natural con- 
nexion between the Roman Catholic iieligion and 
the doctrine of passive obedience, it would seem 
that the character of this religion is changed by 
the climate of Switzerland; — and here it loses even 
its intolerance. For the canton of Unterwalden 
was one of the first to assert and maintain the 
rights of liberty ; yet it was, and is, firmly at- 
tached to the church of Rome ; though this has 
not prevented it from extending the hand of good 
fellowship to the Protestant inhabitants of Upper- 
walden ; and these two cantons have long been 
incorporated together. Tliey sit in the same 
council, administer the same laws, and intermarry 
with one another, without at all disturbing their 
political or domestic harmony. 

It is pleasant, amidst the wild and savage re- 
cesses of the Alps, to find a moral scene of such 
a character; — where the bitterness of religious 
differences is softened by the kindly feelings of 



104 



CANTONAL GOVERNMENTS, 



[aug. 



human brotherhood ; and every sect enjoys a full 
and complete participation in all the privileges of 
society. 

The costume of the peasantry in this canton is 
grotesque, but not unpleasing. The women walk 
about in flat straw hats, which bear the same pro- 
portion to their figure that the head of a large 
mushroom does to its stalk. 

21st. The 'government of a pure democracy 
may still be comtemplated amongst some of the 
little cantons of Switzerland ; where the people 
meet en masse in the plain, to legislate and choose 
their magistrates. Here too may be seen the 
singular spectacle of a government without taxes ; 
the government lands paying all the expenses of 
the state : and this will not appear extraordinary, 
where we find that the salary of the Landmann, 
or chief officer of the state, is limited to eight 
pounds per annum. In this miniature shape, 
such a government may be conducted with mo- 
deration and justice; but the history of demo- 
cracies has too fatally proved, that it is perhaps 
of all forms of government the worst, when tried 
upon a large scale. Cruelty and injustice may 
disgrace the best formed constitutions ; but it 
would seem that they must he the characteristics 



1818.] CANTONAL GOVERNMENTS. 105 

of democracies. The history of Athens, the seat 
of arts and sciences, the country of historians, 
poets and philosophers, teaches us, in the banish- 
ment of Aristides, the condemnation of Socrates, 
and the death of Phocion, that the intellectual 
and moral character of a people affords no se- 
curity against their abuse of power; while the 
annals of the French Revolution will record in 
its true colours the savage spirit of a democracy 
acting under the bhnd impulse of ignorance and 
vice. This detestable spirit is completely ex- 
plained in the declaration of a favourite dema- 
gogue of that day — “ that true republicans ought 
not to bear even the aristocracy of virtue” — a 
sentiment which seems to be lineally descended 
from the Athenian, who employed Aristides to 
inscribe his own name on the shell that was to 
send him into exile. 

It is plain that these observations are not meant 
to apply to such mixed governments as have been 
founded on the representative system — the effect 
of which is, to counteract the inherent vices of de- 
mocracy ; though it may well be doubted whether 
this beneficial effect would not be completely 
neutralized, if the right of suffrage were made 
universal, with a new election every year. 



106 



LAKE OF LUCERNE — GERSAU. 



[aug. 



After a long conversation on Swiss politics 
with our worthy host at Sarnen — who held an 
important office in the magistracy of the canton, 
and who delighted us at once by his good humour, 
and the strong resemblance he bore to the Welsh 
Captain Fluellen of gallant memory — we proceeded 
in a char to Alpnach, where we hired a boat to 
take us to Lucerne, and afterwards to Gersau, 
for fifteen francs. There was a good deal of wind, 
and the boatman hoisted a sail ; but this is a dan- 
gerous practice ; for the boats are flat-bottomed, 
and the men very bad sailors, so that you run 
the risk of being upset by those puffs of wind 
to which you are constantly exposed on the 
lakes of Switzerland, from the nature of the sur- 
rounding mountains and valleys. There is little 
in Lucerne to detain you, except the model of 
the four cantons by General Pfiffer, which should 
not be omitted. 

The scenery of the lake in th£ neighbourhood 
of Lucerne is rather tame, but as you advance 
towards Gersau it assumes a loftier character, 
and the view towards Altorf is full of rugged 
magnificence. 

The little republic of Gersau, consisting of a 
territory of two leagues in length and one in 



SCHWYTZ. 



' 107 



1818.] 

breadth, was incorporated into the canton of 
Schwytz in 1798. There is an anecdote told by 
a French traveller to show how completely, in 
so small a community, the conduct of every in- 
dividual is under the eye of the public ; — upon 
entering the inn at this place, he found an ad- 
vertisement posted up prohibiting all persons 
from playing at any kind of game, or drinking, 
with two citizens of the republic, specified by 
name ; and the reason assigned for this prohibi- 
tion was, that the one of them was addicted to 
drunkenness, and the other to choler. 

22d. We proceeded up the lake, and dis- 
embarked at Brunen ; from whence it is a short 
drive to Schwytz — the cradle of Switzerland. 
The inhabitants of this canton displayed the 
same enthusiastic courage at the battle of Mont- 
garten, against the French, in 1799, which their 
ancestors had done on the same spot, against the 
Austrians, in 1315, in the memorable battle which 
established their liberty. The interval between 
these battles — nearly 500 years — was an interval 
of peace and prosperity ; but the havoc and de- 
vastation committed by the contending armies 
of Russians, Austrians and French, in 1799, re- 
duced- the poor Schwytzers to beggary and ruin. 



108 ECROULEMENT OF THE ROSSBERG. [aUG. 

The town of Schwytz is situated in a charming 
green valley, backed by the sharp and rugged 
heights of the Mythen. The Cerf at Schwytz is 
a perfect inn ; so delightfully comfortable, that I 
should have been well contented to remain there 
for some time, if the time had permitted it. It is 
necessary to penetrate into the core of Switzer- 
land to recognize the traces of that honest sim- 
plicity of character, which has been considered 
as peculiar to the Swiss people. In those places 
which are situated on the great high roads, the 
influx of travellers has produced the usual work 
of demoralization ; and the only competition seems 
to be who shall cheat the traveller most. The 
female cap of this canton seems to be fashioned 
with still less attention to utility than that of 
Bern ; and is, in fact, nothing but a stiff* frill of 
muslin, disposed uprightly on the top of the head, 
like the comb of a cock. 

In our rout from Schwytz to Art, we passed 
over the valley of Goldau, the fatal scene of the 
terrible ecroulement of the Rossberg ; a mountain 
which in the year 1806 slipped from its founda- 
tions, literally fulfilling the emphatic description 
of the Psalmist — “ The mountains skipped like 
rams.” — This overwhelming catastrophe swal- 



FALLS OF THE RHINE. 



109 



1818.] 



lowed up in a moment five of the most industrious 
villages in Switzerland, with some hundreds of 
their inhabitants, and a party of unfortunate tra- 
vellers. The moving masses which came thun- 
dering down are described as being a league in 
length, 1,000 feet in breadth, and 200 feet high; 
which in a few minutes converted this once cheer- 
ful and populous valley into a shapeless chaos of 
rocks and desolation. 

The weather was so bad when we arrived at 
Art, that we resolved to postpone our intended 
ascent of the Rigi till our return, and proceed at 
once to SchafFausen, the ultimate object of our 
tour. * , 

After a boisterous voyage along the lake from 
Art, we arrived at Zug, where we found our car- 
riage ; and as the rain prevented us from seeing 
any thing of that place, we pushed on to Thalwyl 
to sleep. 

23d. VVe proceeded as rapidly as possible, 
without making any halt at Zurich, in order to 
see the falls of the Rhine before sun-set. It had 
continued to rain during the whole day, but a 
short time before our Char stopped at the foot- 
path which leads to the falls, the weather sud- 
denly cleared, and we were fortunate enough to 



110 FALLS OF THE RHINE. [aUG. 

contemplate this splendid prospect lighted up by 
the rays of the setting sun. As the morning is 
the most favourable season for seeing the Stau- 
bach, so, from the difference of the aspect, the 
evening is the best period for looking at the falls 
of the Rhine. The impression of the first coup 
perhaps disappoints expectation, and it seems 
to require a longer survey to take in the whole 
magnificence of the scene. The best point of 
view is, I think, from the room of an artist imme- 
diately opposite to it ; in which he has constructed 
a camera obscura which transfers the whole scene 
with all its lights, and colours, and motion, upon 
the table of his apartment. One of the defects, 
which are incident to representations of cascades, 
is thus supplied, and the effect of this moving 
picture is very pleasing ; the want of sound, how- 
ever, is a defect which seems irremediable, for 
though in this instance you have the roaring of 
the real water-fall in your ears, you cannot, by any 
cheating of the senses, connect it with the mimic 
imagery of the picture. 

Twilight came upon us while we were yet gazing 
with undiminished admiration at the awful ma- 
jesty of the scene before us. I find that we have 
delayed our tour too long. The beginning of 



FALLS OP THE RHINE. 



Ill 



1818 .] 



July is perhaps the best period for an excursion 
in Switzerland ; for it is very important to have 
the evening as long as possible. At present it is 
nicrht at eisht o’clock, and the thermometer, which 
was a fortnight ago at 85 in the shade, was this 
evening as low as 52. 

We found shelter for the night at a wretched 
inn at lestetten. 

24th. There is nothing interesting in the 
country between Schatfausen and Zurich, and it 
is upon a road like this, that one is tempted to 
complain of the want of post horses in Switzer- 
land. The Diet seems to consider that the esta- 
blishment of posting would be too great an encou- 
ragement of luxury ; and accordingly a traveller 
is doomed to the snail’s pace of a voiturier’s team, 
whether he will or no. 

It is impossible not to wish well to any regu- 
lations that have a tendency to promote and main- 
tain uncorrupted the simple manners of the pea- 
santry ; and it is, I fear, a serious deduction from 
the advantages of good roads and mail coaches, 
that, while they promote the diffusion of know- 
ledge, they circulate the poison of immorality, 
and contaminate the country with the vices and 
licentiousness of the capital. Travellers have 



1 12 SWISS MANUFACTURES. [aUG. 

certainly done no good to Switzerland ; but per- 
haps she has more to fear from the mistaken 
policy of the Diet in encouraging the growth of 
manufactures. 

To say nothing of the absurdity of manufac- 
turing at home cottons and muslins, which she 
might purchase cheaper and better from Eng- 
land ; the profits of these establishments will be a 
poor compensation for the evil effects which they 
must produce upon the morals of the people. The 
only hope of duration that a democratical govern- 
ment can entertain must be founded upon the 
moral qualities of the great body of its popula- 
tion. 

It would surely be happier for Switzerland, that 
her population was confined to the honest and 
hardy followers of pasturage and agriculture, than 
that she should, by the establishment of manufac- 
tures, breed up an excessive population in par- 
ticular places, depending for support and subsist- 
ence upon the fluctuating prices of commerce, and 
infected with the vicious propensities which seem 
to be the necessary consequences of any system, 
that confines large numbers of human beings to- 
gether in sedentary employments. 

The Swiss, and particularly the inhabitants of 



ZURICH. 



113 



1818.] 



the neighbouring canton of Appenzell, have al- 
ways been celebrated for their skill in mechanics. 
A remarkable instance of their mechanical genius 
was furnished by Ulrich Grubenman. This man, 
who was a common carpenter, was the inventor of 
that sort of wooden bridge, which is in German 
called licengioerTc, 

In consequence of the repeated washing away 
of the bridges at Schaffau'sen, a committee was 
appointed to consider of a plan for a new structure. 
Grubenman, in order to avoid the force of the 
stream, proposed to erect a bridge which should 
consist of a single arch. The idea of throwing an 
arch across a width of 300 feet, was treated with 
ridicule ; and the plan was about to be dismissed 
as the project of a visionary; when Grubenman, 
as the story runs, answered the objections by 
jumping with his whole weight upon the minia- 
ture model of his intended work, which bore him 
up triumphantly, and his plan was in the end 
adopted. 

Zurich is celebrated for the literary characters 
it has produced, and has been called the Athens of 
Switzerland. Gessner and Lavater are amongst 
the names of which they are most proud. 

The last fell by the bayonet of a French ruffian. 



VOL. II. 



I 



114 



ZUG. 



[aug. 

when Zurich was taken by storm, during those 
terrible times which made the peaceful retirement 
of Switzerland the theatre of war and carnage ; 
and presented the awful spectacle of contending 
armies of French and Russians fighting hand to 
hand upon the Devil’s Bridge. 

The public library is large and curious ; but a 
traveller has seldom time to do more than look at 
the outsides of books. They show you an original 
manuscript of Quintilian, and a collection of ori- 
ginal letters in Latin, from our Lady Jane Gray 
to Bullinguer. In the evening we proceeded to 
Zug, along the banks of the lake of Zurich, which 
are gay and cheerful, though entirely without any 
of the higher characteristics of the sublime and 
the beautiful. 

25th. The little canton of Zug, like Schwytz 
and many others, proves, that there is no necessary 
hostility between the Catholic Religion, and liberal 
principles of government. We embarked for Art 
at day-break, in order to ascend the Rigi. The 
lake of Zug is famous for the variety and abund- 
ance of its fish. The season of carp fishing is 
drawing to a close. I am told they are sometimes 
caught of the prodigious weight of ninety pounds ; 
and frequently of twenty pounds’ weight. But 



RIGI. 



115 



1818.] 

the fish in greatest estimation is the rcetele, a sort 
of salmon-trout, which is found under different 
names in most of the lakes of Switzerland. The 
day had promised a fine sun-set, but, as is often 
the case, these expectations were disappointed. 
There are four different routes by which you may 
ascend the Rigi ; but that from Art is perhaps, on 
the whole, the best; not only as regards the road 
itself, blit because the views by the way are con- 
fined, and the grand panorama is reserved till you 
arrive at the summit. 

It took four hours and a half of good walking 
to reach the top. The evening was extremely 
cold, the wind at north-west, and Fahrenheit’s 
thermometer stood at 40. 

26th. We rose soon after four o’clock in order 
to see the sun rise, which he did in the fullest 
splendour j gilding the white summits of the Swiss 
Alps, of which you command a view from the 
Sentis in Appenzell, to the Gemmi in the canton 
of the Valais. Ebel says, that fourteen lakes are 
visible, but I could only make out eleven. It was 
a magnificent spectacle. A sun-rise upon the 
Rigi, — the Regina Montium , — forms an epoch in 
one’s life, which can never be forgotten. No man 
can help feeling on such an occasion some of those 

T 

1 



116 



RIGI. 



[aug. 

sensations, which Rousseau so eloquently describes 
as the effects of the air of high mountains, though 
it perhaps may he doubted whether the cause be 
not altogether moral, rather than physical. “ Ce 
fut la, — on the top of the Rigi for instance, — ce 
. fut la, que je demelai sensiblement, dans la purete 
de fair ou je me trouvais, la veritable cause du 
changement de mon humeur et du retour de cette 
paix interieure, que j ’avals perdue depuis si long 
terns. En effet, c’est une impression generate, 
qu’eprouvent tons les hommes, — quoiqu’ils ne I’ob- 
servent pas tous, — que sur les hautes montagnes, 
ou fair est pur et subtil, on se sent plus de facilite 
dans la respiration, plus de legerete dans le corps, 
plus de serenite dans I’esprit ; les plaisirs y sont 
moins ardens, les passions plus moderees. Les 
meditations y prennent je ne sais quel caractere 
grand et sublime, proportionne aux objets, qui 
nous frappent, — je ne sais quelle volupte tranquille, 
qui n’a rien d’acre et de sensuel. II semble qu’en 
s’elevant au dessus du sejour des hommes, on y 
laisse tous les sentimens has et terrestres, et qu’a 
mesure qu’on approche des regions etherees, fame 
contracte quelque chose de leur inalterable purete. 
On y est grave sans melancolie, paisible s.ans in- 
dolence, content d’etre et de penser ; tous les de- 



RIGI. 



1818.] 



ni 



sirs trops vifs s’emoussent, ils perdent cette pointe 
aigue qui les rend douloureux; ils ne laissent au 
fond du coeur qu’une emotion legere et douce ; et 
c’est ainsi qu’un heureux climat fait servir a la fe- 
licite de Thomme les passions qui font d’ailleurs 
son tourment.” 

Such is the description of Rousseau, of which 
every man has, more or less, felt the truth ; and it 
is, no doubt, to enjoy in Platonic perfection such , 
seraphic raptures, that a lady of Switzerland has 
fixed her residence on the summit of the Rigi 
during the summer ; where she receives and en- 
tertains such pilgrim visitors as may be thought 
worthy to participate in them. 

In descending, we took the road to Wegghis 
which is the shortest and the steepest. Here we 
embarked to cross the lake of Lucerne where we 
rejoined our carriage. 

27th and 28th. The road from Lucerne to 
Bern, by way of Zofingen, passes through the most 
fertile and best cultivated part of Switzerland. 
The views are of a softer .and richer character, 
and the landscape is constantly enlivened by herds 
of grazing cattle ; a feature which is often wanting, 
especially in the Pays de Vaud; where the fa- 
vourite system is to confine the cattle to the house. 



118 



MANAGEMENT OF CATTLE. 



[aug. 



In the neighbourhood of Lausanne, there is a 
large grazing farm where no less than a hundred 
cows are thus kept in the confinement of the stall 
during the whole year. The advantages of this 
mode, in a farming point of view, seem to be con- 
siderable. The grass which supplies theih with 
food during the summer, instead of being waste- 
fully trodden under foot, and daintily picked, is 
regularly and fairly cut, — fat and lean together, — 
and is thus made to go much farther ; while the 
vast quantity of manure which is accumulated 
from so large a stock is sufficient to support the 
pastures under the constant exhaustion of the 
scythe.* 

The animals on the other hand give more milk 
than if they were at liberty; and are in much 
better condition, in the grazier’s sense of the word ; 
— that is, they are always ready for the butcher. 
The only objections to this mode arise out of con- 
siderations for the happiness of the animals them- 
selves, to whom we are disposed to attribute human 



* Tlie Swiss are very attentive to the dressing of tlieir pas- 
tures, and to the preservation of the means of doing so, par- 
ticularly to the urinary part of manure, by far the richest 
and most valuable, of which they collect and treasure up every 
drop with scrupulous care. 



1818.] MANAGEMENT OF CATTLE. 119 

feelings and sentiments, and to imagine that they 
derive the same pleasure from browsing freely in 
the sunshine of the meadow, or reposing in the 
protecting shade of the woodland surrounded by 
the beauties of nature, which we should ourselves 
feel if similarly situated. 

But it may, I think, be fairly concluded that 
animals, though they may seem to participate with 
man to a certain extent in the faculty of reason, 
are utterly insensible to all the pleasures of taste 
and imagination. The beautiful has no charms 
for the brute creation ; for even in the passion of 
sexual desire, where, if any where, it might be 
supposed to have some influence, we do not per- 
ceive that youth, beauty, and cleanliness, make a 
more forcible appeal to their feelings, than age, 
dirt, and deformity. And it may be doubted 
whether the tranquillity and protection from flies 
during the summer afforded by the stall be not 
sources of greater gratification to these animals, 
with whom 

“ To live well means nothing but to eat,” 

than any which they could find in the enjoyment 
of liberty, or the contemplation of the landscape. 

29th. After again exploring the beauties of 



120 LAUSANNE — SWISS HONESTY. [SEPT. 

Bern, and its promenades, we retraced our steps 
to Payerne. 

30th. Returned to Lausanne ; — the more one 
sees of Switzerland, the more one is pleased with 
the country, and the less one is pleased with the 
inhabitants. 

Point darg€7it point de Suisse is a maxim of 
which every day’s experience demonstrates the 
truth. Our bill last night was just twice as much 
as it was a fortnight ago at the same place ; and 
our host was somewhat confused, when we pro- 
duced his former account, in opposition to his 
charge. Swiss honesty is a phrase that is much 
used, and it may have some application — out of 
Switzerland ; but is an article that seems to be 
cultivated solely for exportation, and none is re- 
tained for home consumption. 

September 6th. Packing up. Farewell visits. 
Last drive round the environs of Lausanne, which 
are studded with pretty villas ; amongst which La 
Chabliere is conspicuously beautiful, — the resi- 
dence of Mr. Canning, the British Minister, whose 
courteous and hospitable attentions will not be 
forgotten by any of his 'countrymen who have 
resided at Lausanne. 



1818 .] 



121 



CHAPTER XII. 

Departure from Lausanne — Geneva — Ferney — Chamouni — 
Mont Blanc — Mer de Glace — Aix — Chamberry — Lyons — 
Journey to Montpellier — Scenery of the Rhone — Hannibal’s 
Passage — Revolutionary Horrors — N ismes . 

September 8th. Left Lausanne in a voiturier’s 
carriage, consuming eight hours in the journey 
to Geneva. There is a metropolitan appearance 
about Geneva ; and it would seem that the people 
had acquired a taste for military foppery during 
their long connexion with France. 

The town is fortified ; — and there is as much 
pomp and circumstance in the examination of 
your passport at the gate as if you were entering 
the capital of a military despot. In the lower and 
trading part of the town, the houses, which are 
very high, have arcades of wood supported by 
pillars carried up to the roofs, something after 
the manner of Chester. The upper part of the 
city, which is built on a gentle ascent, is clean 
and handsome ; the houses are of fine stone ; and 
the views from the public walks towards the lake 
and neighbouring mountains are magnificent. The 



m 



GENEVA. 



[sept. 

Rhone issues out of the lake in two rapid streams 
of dark and transparent blue, which unite soon 
afterwards, before they join the muddy Arve. It 
is surprising how the notion could ever have pre- 
vailed, that the Rhone passed through the lake 
without mixing with its waters ; but there is this 
very extraordinary fact — at its going out, it re- 
sembles neither the muddy colour of its former 
stream, nor the crystal clearness of the lake 
through which it has passed, but is of as deep 
an indigo as the stream that runs from a dyer’s 
furnace. 

9th. Drove to Les Dtlices ; — the residence of 
Voltaire before he fixed himself at Ferney ; but 
there was nothing to be seen. Afterwards to 
Ferney. His bed-room and saloon remain pre- 
cisely in the state in which they were when he 
occupied them. 

Under the canopy of his bed is a portrait of 
Le Kain ; on one side of the hangings, a portrait 
of the King of Prussia — and on the other, one of 
Voltaire himself. On another side of the room 
is the Marquise de Chatelet, his mistress. On 
the third wall are the Empress of Russia ; Cle- 
ment XIV. better known by the name of Gan- 
ganelh; Voltaire’s Sempstress; and his Little 



123 



1818 .] FERNEY. 

Savoyard Boy. On the remaining side are a 
collection of prints. The family of Galas — De 
Lille— Diderot — Sir Isaac Newton — Franklin — 
Racine — Milton — Corneille — Antoine Thomas — 
Leibnitz — De Mairan — Helvetius — Washington 
— D’Alembert — Marmontel. All these remain as 
he had placed them. Here too is a model of the 
monument which he prepared for the reception 
of his own heart, with this inscription : 

Mes manes sont consoles 
Puisque mon ccEur 

Est au milieu de vous. 

All the prints are very poor performances, of 
small size. The Sempstress and Savoyard Boy 
are beautiful subjects, and very prettily done in 
crayons. I could not hear that there was any 
tale of scandal relating to either. The portrait 
of Frederic is a vile daub in oil colours, which an 
ale-house in England would scarcely accept as a 
sign. That of the Marquise de Chatelet is not 
much better, though her countenance apparently 
deserved an abler artist. Catharine of Russia’s 
portrait is executed in embroidery. Le Kain’s is 
a wretched performance in crayons ; and, if it was 
hke him, there never was an actor who had to 



124 GENEVA — VOLTAIRE. [sEPT. 

contend against greater disadvantages of person. 
Voltaire’s portrait is by far the best of the col- 
lection ; the face is full of vivacity and spirit. It 
must have been done when he was a very young 
man ; and, placed here, it looks as if he had been 
the god of his own idolatry. 

The portrait of Clement XIV. should have 
been inscribed with his memorable repartee to 
Voltaire, which has still higher merit than its wit 
to recommend it. 

The Baron of Gleichen, in his way to Italy, 
stopped at Ferney, and inquired of Voltaire what 
he should say from him to the Pope ? — His 
Holiness,"' replied Voltaire, “favours me with 
presents of medals, and of indulgencies, and even 
sends me his blessing : but I would rather that 
Ganganelli would send me the ears of the Grand 
Inquisitor.” — The Baron delivered the message: 
— “Tell him,” replied Clement, “that, as long as 
Ganganelli is Pope, the Grand Inquisitor shall 
have neither ears nor eyes.” 

The whole town of Ferney was of Voltaire’s 
creation. His estate consisted of about 900 acres. 
I talked with an old pair who spoke of him with 
the greatest affection, and told me tales of his 
various charities ; — of his portioning the poor, to 



GENEVA-— VOLTAIRE. 



125 



1818 .] 



enable them to marry — and of the kind interest 
which he took in all their concerns. He was very 
fond of rifle shooting, and encouraged popinjay 
contests amongst them, in which he himself took 
a part. An old domestic produced two relics of 
his master ; — the cap which he used to wear iri 
his study, made of white silk embroidered with 
tinsel — and a curious book, in which Voltaire had 
made a collection of the seals of all his corre- 
spondents. The seals were pasted in, and under- 
neath each he had written the address of the 
writer. It seems that it was his practice, when 
he received a letter, to examine and verify the 
seal by referring to his book; and, if it came 
from a quarter he did not like, he refolded it in 
an enveloppe, and returned it unopened to the 
writer. 

He built the church of Ferney close to his 
own gate, as if he had a mind to illustrate the 
old saying — the nearer the church, the farther 
from G — . 

So much for Voltaire, whose merits as an author 
seem to have been over-rated. Johnson’s praise 
of Goldsmith might with some limitation be ap- 
plied to him — nullum fere scrihendi genus non teti- 
git, nullum quod tetigit non ornavit ; but though 



126 



GENEVA — VOLTAIRE. 



[sept. 



he sparkled in almost every style of writing, he 
did not perhaps shine pre-eminently in more than 
one. He had more wit than genius — and his 
forte rather lay in cooking up the thoughts of 
others with his own sauce piquante, than in pro- 
ducing new sources of knowledge. He is perhaps 
only maximus in minimis ; an exquisite writer of 
a satiric tale ; unrivalled in wit, raillery, and 
sarcasm : — and inimitable in “ exposing knaves 
and painting fools.” Beyond this, there is little 
to say. His epic poetry, his tragedies, and his 
histories are only extraordinary in their combi- 
nation. Separately considered ; — his epic poetry 
would be placed by all but Frenchmen in the very 
lowest class of epic poems, all that Lord Chester- 
field says to the contrary notwithstanding ; — his 
tragedies are inferior in force and grandeur to 
those of Corneille, and in sensibility and pathos 

to those of Racine. Of his history much is 

« 

romance ; and the Age of Louis XIV. upon 
which his claims as an historian are founded, is 
rather a collection of materials for a history than 
an historical work. On many subjects it is plain 
he had but a smattering. Perhaps a stronger 
instance could not be given of the difference 
between a mouthful and a belly -full of knowledge 



GENEVA — VOLTAIRE. 



127 



1818 .] 

than would be afforded by a comparison of Vol- 
taire’s preface to CEdipe with Johnson’s preface 
to Shakspeare. 

His physiognomy, which is said to have been a 
combination of the eagle and the monkey, was 
illustrative of the character of his mind. If the 
soaring wing and piercing eye of the eagle opened 
to him all the regions of knowledge, it was only 
to collect materials for the gratification of that 
apish disposition, which seems to have delighted 
in grinning, with a malicious spirit of mockery, at 
the detected weaknesses and infirmities of human 
nature. Though a man may often rise the wiser, 
yet I believe none ever rose the better, fi'om the 
perusal of Voltaire. The short but admirable 
epitaph on him may well conclude his character — 

“ Ci git I’enfant gat6 du monde qu’il g^ta.’’ 

On our return to Geneva we had as usual a 
battle to fight with the voiturier — a kind of animal, 
of all others the most nefarious — and perhaps 
the Swiss species is the worst. The dispute ended, 
as most disputes do — by the fool submitting to 
the knave. I paid the rascal his demand, and 
proceeded to Bonneville to sleep ; — and the next 
day brought us to St. Martin. 



1S8 VALLEY OP CHAMOUNI. [sEPT. 

11th. Rainy morning; — nothing to be seen. 
On entering the valley of Chamouni it cleared 
up. Stopped to examine the glacier of Bossons, 
which is perhaps the highest glacier in Switzer- 
land. But all glaciers, look like frozen snoWy 
rather than frozen water ; and in fact they are all 
covered more or less with a thin coat of snow. 
Some of the pillars, or rather spires, of ice in this 
glacier are above a hundred feet high. 

Arrived at Chamouni before dusk ; — ^but Mont 
Blanc was invisible — enveloped in mist and clouds. 

It is now nearly a century since Pococke ex- 
plored this valley, which was till then as little 
known as the interior of Africa. There are now 
two well-appointed inns ; and during the summer 
season it has become the fashionable resort of all 
the idle tourists of Europe. 

12ih. Beautiful day; — but before the sun ap- 
peared above the, horizon, which it did not do till 
nine o’clock, it was bitterly cold. I had now for 
the first time a fine clear view of Mont Blanc, 

— — soaring snow-clad through its native sky, 

In the wild pomp of mountain majesty — 

with the whole range of needles ; some of which 
appear higher to an unpractised eye than Mont 



1818.] CH AMOUNT. 129 

Blanc itself. But the eye is of all witnesses the 
most inaccurate, and it is some time before it can 
be taught to distinguish which is really the summit 
of Mont Blanc. 

Rode to the cross of the Flegere ; a height on 
the opposite side of the valley to Mont Blanc. 
The best point of view to look at a mountain 
is from an opposite elevation, and not from the 
plain. From the height of the Flegere we en- 
joyed the prospect in full perfection ; — below, 
as Johnson would say, was “ immeasurable pro- 
fundity,” and above, “ inaccessible altitude.” The 
needles now sunk to a level with ourselves, while the 
round head of Mont Blanc rose higher than ever. 

After having inscribed our names on the cross 
of the Flegere, we prepared to descend, and in 
our way down stopped to refresh ourselves and 
our mules on the mossy bank of a clear spring, 
from whence the prospect on every side was su- 
perb ; — “ and all was rudeness, silence, and soli- 
tude.” A tranquil and happy hour! — I was re- 
minded of Johnson’s hour of rest on a “bank 
such as a writer of romance would have delighted 
to feign” in his Tour to the Hebrides. 

A full view of Mont Blanc at midnight, by the 
light of a glorious moon. 



VOL. II. 



K 



130 



MER DE GLACE. 



[sept. 



13th. Ascended Montanvert, to go to the 
Mer de Glace. It is impossible to describe this 
scene better than in the words of Coxe, who com- 
pares it to a raging sea suddenly frozen in the 
midst of a violent storm.” The glaciers which 
terminate the Mer de Glace debouch fairly into 
the valley of Chamouni in enormous masses, over- 
turning trees, protruding forward vast blocks of 
granite, and threatening to advance, notwith- 
standing the crosses which have been set up to 
check their progress ; many of these the Glaciers 
have actually overturned, in spite of the religious 
processions, which the superstition of the people 
leads them to hope will interrupt the course of 
nature. Vast pyramids of ice of all forms and 
sizes are constantly giving way, as they are 
pushed forward by those behind, or rather by 
the insensible movement of the whole mass, and 
they fall down with the noise of a peal of 
thunder. 

The Mer de Glace ^ or Valley of Ice, is one of 
those things which, like Vesuvius, does not dis- 
appoint expectation. As that represents “ the 
fiery floods” of the place of punishment, so this 
is the other extreme — the “ thrilling region of 
thick ribbed ice.” Nothing can be more awfully 



ALBUM AT MONTANVERT. 



131 



1818.] 

sublime; and there is just enough of danger in 
the chasms that yawn under your feet, and the 
occasional cracking of the surface, to impress the 
mind in a manner that disposes it to feel in its full 
force all the grandeur of the scene. Amongs 
other effusions in the Album at Montanvert, the 
Empress Josephine had written a quatrain, with 
her own hand ; but some unprincipled collector 
of autographs has torn out the leaf in which it 
had been inscribed. The registrar, however, 
retained the verses in his memory, and has re- 
written them in the book : 

“ Ah je sens qu’au milieu de ces grand phenomfenes, 

De ces tableaux touchans, de ces terribles scbnes. 

Tout elbve I’esprit, tout occupe les yeux ; 

Le coeur seul, un moment, se repose en ces lieux.” 

1810. 

An imperial quatrain is too great a curiosity to 
be within the reach of criticism ; but how shall 
we explain a sentence inscribed by Madame de 
Stael ! “ Si les passions n’aneantissait — (probably 
aneantissaient) — la sensibilite du coeur, on verroit 
les hommes s’abstenir des choses impures, et que 
le sentiment reprouve, mais fame inclinee vers sa 
perfection ne saurait composer avec ses principes, 

K 2 



ALBUM AT CHAMOUNI. 



132 



[sept. 



et jetter dans la vie une autre vie, qui conduirait 
a un avenir sans avenir. 

De Stael Holstein, 17 Aout 1815. 



I own I am not CEdipus enough to understand 
what the Sphinx would be at here ; though I 
have faithfully transcribed the sentence — even to 
a fault. If the author of the Rejected Addresses 
had visited Chamouni, one might almost suspect 
it was a It is certainly very like the style 

of the lady in question, particularly when — as it 
often happens to her — she does not seem to un- 
derstand her own meaning. This, I suspect, is 
frequently the case in the mystical and meta- 
physical parts of her writings ; which continually 
remind us of our old friend the Vicar of Wake- 
field, with his ” anarchon ara kai ateleutaion 
to pan'' 

I record one mere effusion, taken from the 
Album of Chamouni ; which is more intelligible, 
and perhaps applies as strongly to the foregoing, 
as to any other piece of galimatias in such col- 
lections : 

“ J’ai pense,” says the writer, “ que les grandes 
impressions que Ton re§oit ici donneraient de 
grandes pensees ; que la purete, la legerete de 



MONT BLANC. 



133 



1818.] 

I’air qu’on y respire les feroit rendre avec nettete ; 
parsuite j’ai donne en Juillet 1809 un registre 
au Montan vertj pour que les Voyageurs y con- 
signassent leurs reflexions: — Je m’en repens. Ce 
que j’y ailu — ce que je lis ici, me desespere. - On 
a du bon sens quand on se determine a voir la 
Vallee de Chamouni, mais je vois qu’on le perd 
en y arrivant.” 

My guide was one of ten who a few weeks ago 
attended a Polish count in an expedition to the 
summit of Mont Blanc. They pitched their tent 
the first night in a sheltered spot about two 
thirds of the way up ; the second day they suc- 
ceeded in reaching the top, and rested again at 
night in the same spot ; and the third day they 
returned to Chamouni. 

This was a mere excursion of pleasure and 
curiosity, unconnected with scientific observation, 
which made great part of the object of M. de 
Saussure’s expedition in 1787. It was a short 
time before this, that M. Paccard, the apothecary 
of Chamouni, and Jacques Balma the Guide — 
ever afterwards called Balma Montblanc , — went 
up without any other companions, and had the 
glory of being the first to explore the maiden 
snow of these uninhabited regions of frost and 



1 34 MONT BLANC. [SEPT. 

silence, which had never been disturbed by the 
tread of any living thing. M. de Saussure gives 
one caution to pedestrian travellers, which may 
be found of use. He advises you, before you 
enter upon a dangerous path, to familiarize your 
eye with the precipice beneath ; lest the sight of 
it should break upon the view unexpectedly, and 
occasion a dizziness, that might be fatal. The 
guides, on the contrary, always recommend you, 
when you are passing the brink of a precipice, to 
turn your eyes away from it. This may be the 
best rule, when it can be done ; but sometimes 
the precipice will obtrude itself upon you, whether 
you will or no, and then it is certainly as well to 
be previously prepared for it. 

14th. Returned to Geneva. — As the weather 
was fine, I had an opportunity of seeing all that 
is to he seen between Chamouni and St. Martin. 
Though the scenery is occasionally very grand, 
yet it cannot be compared with Lauterbrunn and 
Interlaken. Mont Blanc improves as one recedes 
from him. A mountain like a hero loses much 
from juxtaposition. I was disappointed in the 
impression he made upon me when I was face to 
face with him at Chamouni ; but at the Torrent- 
noir, or on the bridge of St. Martin, he might — 



1818.] CHAMBERRY. 135 

addressing me as the ghost of Banquo — say with 
Macbeth — “ Why so — being gone — I am myself 
again ! 

15th. Arrived at Aix — a small town in Savoy. 
The hot springs are much celebrated for their 
effects in removing all chronic pains. The baths 
are well built, and the expense of bathing is 
very trifling. It is a sulphurated water so hot, 
that the thermometer stands at 110. The general 
mode of bathing is the douche, as it is called ; — 
the water is made to fall from the height of some 
feet, and is conducted by a pipe, so as to play with 
considerable force upon the part affected. After 
being parboiled in this manner for twenty minutes, 
they wrap you up in a blanket, and carry you 
back to bed. The douche is very fatiguing. After 
a trial for ten days, the only effects it produced on 
me were nausea, headache, and general debility; 
so I resolved to change the scene. 

26th. Drove to Chamberry ; — passed the day in 
strolling with Rousseau’s Confessions in my hand 
to Les Charmettes, the quiet retreat in which he 
lived with his Maman, Madame de Warens. His 
description of her person is one of the most ani- 
mated pictures of grace and beauty that ever was 



ROAD TO LYONS. 



136 



[sept. 



penned ; and her gentle and benevolent character 
is still more interesting than her beauty. 

The house is situated in a valley surrounded 
by mountains ; but scarcely a vestige remains of 
the garden, which he tells us he cultivated with 
his own hands. 

27th. I once more consigned myself to a voi- 
turier to be conveyed to Lyons. The road across 
the mountains is romantic. This road is the work 
of Charles Emanuel, second Duke of Savoy, who 
has recorded his achievement in an inscription as 
— “ Romanis infentatum cceteris desperatuni ' — but 
it has been thrown into the shade by the imperial 
road-maker of the Simplon, who has here also 
cut his way in a' straight line through the moun- 
tain by a subterraneous tunnel of many hundred 
yards long. 

' At Pont-de-Beauvoisin our baggage was strictly 
searched. The custom-house is in the habit of 
instituting a very rigorous examination on this 
frontier, for the ostensible purpose of preventing 
the introduction of Geneva goods, particularly 
watches and jewellery; but it is notorious that 
cases of watches are carried over the mountains 
by men on foot in large quantities ; and the rate 



iS7 



1818.] LYONS. 

of insurance is so low, that it would lead one to 
suppose there must be a secret understanding be- 
tween the custom-house and the smuggler. 

The first impression of France is favourable ; 
but as you approach Lyons, the country becomes 
more bleak and open. 

28th. Arrived at Lyons before sun-set. Lyons 
is the Manchester of France ; filled with a manu- 
facturing, money-getting tribe, who wear their 
hearts in their purses. The sight of an English- 
man is wormwood to them ; and well it may — for 
we seem to be travelling fast towards surpassing 
them even in their own staple manufacture. 

The first view of Lyons is grand ; the Rhone 
and the Saone flow through it in parallel lines, 
and the broad-paved quays of the Rhone are 
magnificent. 

First sight of French soldiery ; — fine stout look- 
ing men ; but their pale livery has a bad elFect. 

29th. There are several interesting Roman 
antiquities in the neighbourhood of Lyons ; and 
the aqueducts of Marc Anthony still remain on 
the mountain Fourvieres. 

At the Hotel de Ville are the celebrated bronze 
tablets which record a memorable speech of the 
Emperor Claudius. 



138 



LYONS. 



[sept. 



Made a tour of the principal silk manufactories ; 
and, without professing to be a very accurate 
judge, I thought not only their pocket-handker- 
chiefs, but their silk stockings, very inferior to 
our own. The price of a handkerchief is live 
francs ; a pair of silk stockings of the best quality 
costs twelve francs. In all their stulFs the in- 
feriority of the French taste in the pattern is very 
conspicuous ; at least it is generally what we should 
call staring, flaunting, and vulgar — but perhaps 
there is no disputing about taste in the patterns 
of silk. 

Lyons seems to be fiill of Buonapartists. 
They received him with enthusiasm on his return 
from Elba ; and yet one might have thought that 
the recollections of the reign of terror — of Collot 
d’ Herbois, Fouche, and Chalier — would have 
given a bias to the Lyonese politics against this 
child and champion of the Revolution. 

30th. Nothing can be more evident than the 
hostile feeling towards England and Englishmen, 
5 vhich manifests itself here on every occasion. 
Nor is it surprising, when we consider that the 
Lyonese regard us as the causes of the decline of 
their commerce ; for the dulness of trade is as 
much the subject of complaint here as every where 



LYONS. 



139 



1818.] 

else, at the present moment ; and the odium mer- 
catorium is perhaps, next to the odium theologi- 
cum, one of the deadliest sources of enmity. 

The Valets de Place pointed out with precision 
the spot where Hannibal crossed the Rhone; 
though Whittaker, who acts as moderator be- 
tween Polybius and Livy, and occasionally sets 
them both right, would wish to make it quite clear 
that he crossed the river at Loriol in Dauphiny ; 
and that he marched up the course of the Rhone, 
keeping the river on his left, allthe way to Geneva. 

The accounts I hear of the climate of this place 
dissuade me from thinking of passing the winter 
here. No place is more subject to sudden changes 
from heat to cold. There is also a great deal of 
rain, and the winter is cold and long. Besides, 
it is not pleasant to reside in a town where the 
public feeling is so hostile to you ; and amongst 
a people who look daggers at you, though they 
may use none. 

October 1st. The great hospital at Lyons is a 
noble establishment, and all the arrangements are 
calculated to promote the comfort of the patients. 
It is attended by the Sosurs de la charite, who 
officiate as nurses, with a kind spirit of benevolence 



JOURNEY TO MONTPELLIER. 



140 



[oCT. 



that must be as beneficial to the minds as to the 
bodies of their patients. 

One cannot look without respect and admira- 
tion at these devoted sisters of Christianity, whose 
profession of vows has been made with a view to 
enlarge rather than to contract the sphere of 
their utility. 

None of the common objections to monastic 
institutions have any application to this order of 
nuns, which is founded on a practical imitation of 
the conduct of their Divine Master, who, ac- 
cording to the simple narrative of the Evangelist, 
“ went about doing good.” 

2d. While I was deliberating into what quarter 
of the world I should move, I stumbled on a 
voiturier, who was on the point of setting out for 
Montpellier. Wlien you have no decided will of 
your own, the best way, I believe, is to commit 
yourself to the tide of events, and let them carry 
you quocunque ferat tempestas. At least it was 
in this disposition of mind that I hurried back to 
my hotel to collect my packages — and before I 
had time to consider whether I had done well or 
ill, I found myself at Vienne where we slept. At 
this place, there are some relics of the Romans ; 



1818.] JOURNEY TO MONTPELLIER. 141 

and the people show you a house which they tell 
you belonged to Pontius Pilate, and in which they 
would have you believe that he died. 

It was here that Pius VI. the late Pope, 
breathed his last, who confirmed by the mis- 
fortunes of his reign the presentiment to which 
his title had given rise ; for the number six has 
always been considered at Rome as ominous. 

Tarquinius Sextus was the very worst of the 
Tarquins, and his brutal conduct led to a revolu- 
tion in the government ; — it was under Urban 
the sixth, that the great schism of the west broke 
out ; — and Alexander the sixth outdid in crime all 
that his predecessors amongst the Tarquins, or 
the Popes, had ventured to do before him. It 
was during his papacy, that the line was written, 
which in after times was applied to the election of 
his successor Pius VI. 

“ Semper sub sextis perdita Roma fuit.'' 

In Pius VI.’s life, “ nothing became him like the 
leaving of it and he attracted more respect by 
the piety and resignation with which he bore the 
insults heaped upon him by the French during 
his captivity, than he could ever have commanded 
in the palace of the Vatican. 



m 



SCENERY OF THE RHONE. 



[oCT. 



3d. I should have embarked in the Cocked' eau 
at Lyons, and descended the Rhone to Avignon; 
but the pleasure of this scheme depends entirely 
upon the state of the wind. If this be adverse, 
as in the present case, you may be detained many 
days, and there is no certainty of arriving at any 
habitable inn to rest at night. The views of the 
river with the surrounding scenery have to-day 
been very pleasing ; but it would be profanation 
to compare them with the lovely Wye, and “ the 
dear blue hills of my own country.” 

The more I see of France, the less am I able to 
understand how it has gained the title of La belle 
France. The phrase cannot certainly refer to 
picturesque beauty, of which no country has less 
to boast. Perhaps this deficiency may in some 
measure account for the utter want of taste for 
the beauties of nature, in the English sense of 
that phrase, which is so remarkable a feature in 
the French character. 

A Frenchman cannot understand the feeling 
that is delighted with the contemplation of pic- 
turesque beauty ; it is as unintelligible to him, as 
the pleasure of music to a man who has no ear. 

His beau ideal of landscape is that which pro- 
duces the greatest quantity of corn, wine, and oil. 



143 



1818.] tain — VALENCE. 

He will indeed cliatter about les belles horreurs 
of a Swiss scene ; but the very terms he uses prove 
how incapable he is of communing with nature, 
and interpreting the language she speaks in the 
sublime scenes which she there addresses to 
the imagination. 

4th. La belle France grows dirtier and dirtier. 
Sunday is no sabbath here. All the shops are 
open, and every thing goes on as usual. Even 
the butchers are at work, elbow-deep, in their 
horrid occupation. We halted in the middle of 
the day at the little town of Tain, near which are 
the vineyards so famous for their red and white 
hermitage. This tract, however, cannot supply a 
tithe of the wine which is sold under that name. 
It is a small black grape, rough and unpleasant 
upon the palate. It would seem that all the good 
wine is exported, for the sample which was given 
me as the best was but ordinary stuff. The end 
of our day’s journey brought us to Valence. It 
was at the military school of this place that 
Napoleon was educated, and he practised the first 
lessons of the art of war on the Champ de Mars 
of Valence. 

There is a story current here, that, from want of 



144 



MILITARY MANIA. 



[oCT. 

means, he was reduced to the necessity of leaving 
his boarding-house without paying his pension. 

5th. As you advance towards the south, the 
country becomes richer, and begins to wear an 
Italian appearance. 

Encountered a large troop of deserters. In 
England it requires three guards to prevent one, 
deserter from running away. Here, fifty deserters 
are conducted by three gens d'amies, like so many 
beasts being driven to a fair. They were most of 
them mere boys, and apparently in great misery. 

The mihtary spirit seems to have evaporated ; 
or the white flag has not the same fascination that 
the tri-coloured possessed. Under Napoleon, the 
military were every thing ; and the only road to 
honour and power was through the profession of 
arms. The airs of consequence which the army 
assumed, and the tyranny which they exercised 
over all the rest of the world, to whom they ap- 
plied the contemptuous appellation of pequins, 
were almost as intolerable as the old grievances of 
which the Roturiers complainedagainst the Nobles. 

This is no longer the case. The prestige of 
military glory received its death’s blow at Water- 
loo ; and the army feel now, that they no longer 



LORIOL. 



145 



1818.] 

enjoy that paramount weight and consideration 
in public opinion, upon which their insolence was 
founded ; 

Fortuna ssevo Iseta negotio, et 
Ludum insolentem ludere pertinax, 

Transmutat incertos honores — 

Fame and honour are now to be gained by fight- 
ing the battles of the Senate, towards which the 
public attention and public interest are almost ex- 
clusively directed. 

I deviated from the road at Loriol, to examine 
the banks of the river at this point, where Whit- 
taker would demonstrate that Hannibal passed 
with his army. He relies much upon a passage 
in Livv describing Hannibal’s course after he had 
passed the river : 

“ Postero die, profectiis adversa ripa Rhodani, 
mediterranca Gallice petit, non quia rectior ad 
Alpes via esset, sed, quantum a mari recessisset, 
minus ohvium fore Romanum credens, cum quo, 
priusquam in Italiam ventum foret, non erat in 
animo manus conserere. Quartis castris, ad in- 
sulam pervenit ; ibi Avar Rhodanusque amnes con- 
fiuunt in unum.’' 



VOL. II. 



L 



-146 



LORIOL. 



[oCT. 

So far so 'good.^ — Loriol would certainly be 
about four days’ march from Lyons, where the 
Rhone and the Arar (now the Saone) unite, and 
where they once formed an island. 

But, if the authority of Livy is to be relied on, 
how shall we reconcile what he says afterwards, 
with the supposition of Hannibal’s having marched 
up the Rhone to Lyons ? — Livy says, that after 
leaving this island ; — “ quum jam Alpes peter et, 
non recta regione iter instituit, sed ad laevam in 
Tricastinosjlexit, inde per extremam or am Vocon- 
tiorum agri tetendit in Tricorios, hand usquam im- 
pedita via priusquam ad Druentiam Jlumenper- 
venitr Now, the Tricastini were to the south of 
Loriol; and how he could have passed extre- 
mam oram Vocontiorum, to arrive at the Tricorii, 
will puzzle any one who will examine the map. 
But -the last is the greatest riddle of all ; what 
could bring himtotheZ)rM^«/m,now La Durance? 
Again, if Livy be correct, Hannibal passed the 
river in Volcarum agrum, which can hardly be 
made to extend to Loriol. But I believe we must 
conclude, from reading Livy’s account of this 
matter, which is throughout so inconsistent with 
itself, that he wrote it without his map of Gaul 



1818.] LORioL. 147 

before him, or else, that our map of Gaul is very 
different from his.* 

We halted at night at Montelimart. 

* Since writing the above, I have read an ingenious trea- 
tise, by M. de Luc of Geneva; who takes the text of Polybius 
for his guide, and gives very satisfactory reasons for setting 
Livy aside, wherever their authorities differ. M. de Luc 
makes Hannibal cross the Rhone lower down than Loriol, in 
the neighbourhood of Avignon. His four days’ march then 
brings him to the here, at the point where it falls into the 
Rhone. This river, which in the different editions of Poly- 
bius, is called hear or Scoras, by a corruption of the Latin 
text which puzzled the Commentators, has been converted by 
the editors of Livy, from Bisarar, into Arar. If, instead of 
three letters, they had been content with removing one, it 
would have left harar, which is very nearly its modern name. 
This then is the Insula at which Hannibal arrives ; — viz. that 
tract of country insulated on all sides but one, by the Rhone 
and the Isere. He then makes for the Alps, but not directly, 
on account of the mountains of les Echelks, over which there 
was no road at that time. He turns therefore ad loevam ; — 
that is, instead of due east, he marches north-east round these 
mountains, until he comes to the Druentia, which is not the 
Durance , — but the Drance. This river runs through Cham- 
berry, and falls into the Rhone near Yenne — the ancient 
Ejanna. M. de Luc, whose reasoning is for the most part 
clear and convincing, conducts Hannibal from the Drance to 
the pass of the little St. Bernard, and so down the valley of 
Aoste to Ivree. Here Hannibal is obliged to deviate from his 
direct road, in order to take Turin — the capital of the ancient 
Taurini, whose alliance he had been unable to conciliate; 
after which he marches with all haste to encounter Scipio on 
the banks of the Ticinus — now the Tesino; — and there M. de 
Luc leaves him. 



REVOLUTIONARY HORRORS. 



148 



[oCT. 



6th. Near ,Montelimart was the Chateau de 
Grignan; where Madame de Sevigne fella victim 
to maternal anxiety, and was buried in the family 
vault. The Chateau was destroyed during the 
fury of the Revolution, and the leaden coffins in 
the vaults presented too valuable a booty to be 
spared, by the brutal ruffians of those days. The 
body of Madame de Sevigne had been embalmed, 
and was found in a state of perfect preservation, 
richly dressed ; — but no respect was paid to virtue 
even in the grave ; every thing, even to the dress 
she wore, was pillaged and taken away; and the 
naked corpse left to mingle, as it might, with its 
native dust. 

This unnatural war with the dead is one of the 
most revolting features of the French revolution. 
What must be the character of that people who 
could find gratification in rifling the sanctuary of 
the tomb ; and who, carrying their enmity beyond 
the grave, could glut their brutal and cowardly 
revenge in offering insults to the defenceless re- 
mains of the most illustrious characters in the his- 
tory of their country ? No respect was paid to rank, 
or sex, or virtue ; andthis was not a solitary outrage, 
committed at a single place, but the general prac- 
tice throughout France. A fellow passenger tells 



149 



1818 .] REVOLUTIONARY HORRORSr 

me that he saw the body of Laura, the mistress 
of Petrarch, exposed to the most brutal indignities 
in the streets of Avignon. It had been embalmed, 
and was found in a mummy state, of a dark brown 
colour. It was the same every where. ; — the best 
and the worst of the Bourbons — Henry IV. — and 
Louis XL were exposed to equal indignities, nor 
could the deeds of Turenne himself protect his 
corpse from the profanation of these ferocious 
violators. All the cruelties committed upon the 
living, during the reign of blood and terror, will 
not stamp the French name with so indelible a 
stain, as these unmanly outrages upon the dead. 
The first may find some palliation, weak as it is, 
in the party rage, and political animosity, of an 
infuriated populace ; — but what can be urged in 
extenuation of the last ? it is worse than the fury 
of the beasts : for of the Lion at least we are told 
— that he “ preys not upon carcasses.” I blush, in 
venting my indignation against the French, at the 
recollection of the indignities that were offered in 
my own country, to the remains of Cromwell and 
of Blake, who were both taken from Westminster 
Abbey — the first, to be hanged at Tyburn and 
buried under the gallows — and the last, to be cast 
into a pit in St. Margaret’s church ; but I console 



150 



LANGUEDOC KITCHEN. 



[oCT. 



myself with thinking, that this was done by the 
“ express command” of the government of that 
day, in which the people had no share, and by 
which, I trust, our character as a nation cannot 
be affected. 

We crossed the Rhone at the Pont de St. 
Esprit j which is 3,000 feet long, being nearly three 
times the length of the bridge at Westminster. 
It is turned against the stream with a point like a 
bastion. From the road you command a view of 
the Pont du Gard, a splendid relic of Roman 
architecture, built to connect the ranges of an 
aqueduct which extends for seventeen miles ; — 
fragments of which are still remaining in various 
parts of the hills. 

The first entrance into Languedoc is not pre- 
possessing ; as you travel to the south you find 
all the comforts of civilization decrease, and dirt 
and wretchedness flourish. — Slept at Bagnols. 

7th. The kitchen of a village inn in Languedoc 
is enough to damp the strongest appetite. I 
wished for the pencil of Wilkie at Remoulins, a 
little village where we breakfasted this morning. 
While the host, who plays as many parts as 
Buskin in the farce, was killing the devoted fowl, 
his cat ran away with the sausages intended to 



LANGUEDOC. 



1818,] 



151 



srarnish it. Poor Chanticleer was laid down to 

O 

finish his death-song as he could, while the host 
pursued puss to her retreat, which was so well 
chosen, that a third of the sausages were gone 
before he discovered her. Puss however paid 
dearly for it in the end ; — for in endeavouring to 
make her escape under a door, the aperture was 
so small that her hinder legs and tail were left on 
the hither side of it, upon which mine host wreaked 
his vengeance, by stamping most unmercifully. At 
last we sat down to Grimalkin’s leavings; and 
though the landlord had no “ appliances and 
means” to help him, nor scarcely a stick of wood, 
with which to make a fire, he did contrive, some- 
how or other, to furnish a very tolerable breakfast; 
and this seems to be the great merit of French 
cookery — that it can make something out of no- 
thing. Moliere observes that any body can dress a 
dinner with money and materials ; and if a pro- 
fessed cook cannot do it without, his art is not 
worth a farthing. 

' This part of Languedoc may be very rich and 
productive, but nothing can be less pleasing to 
the eye — stone walls instead of hedges — no 
meadow — no cattle — and no trees, but the olive, 
which add little to the beauty of the landscape. 



152 



NISMES. 



[oCT. 

A poor Carmelite nun joined our party, who 
had been driven out of her convent in Spain by 
the French, and was now seeking an asylum. 

The rigid austerities practised in her convent 
had not however extinguished entirely the vanity 
of her sex, some remains of which still lurked 
under her coarse black hood, breaking out in the 
delight with which she traced up the antiquity of 
her order, higher than all other monastic institu- 
tions, to Elijah, and mount Carmel. 

Nismes, where we arrived in the evening, is full 
of Roman antiquities. There is an amphitheatre 
in good preservation ; and the Maison Quarrte, 
as it is called, is one of the most beautiful reHcs of 
ancient architecture that have come down to us. 
It has been supposed that this temple was built in 
the reign of Augustus ; and Monsieur Seguier has 
contrived to decypher an inscription which con- 
tains the names of Marcus Agrippa, and his sons ; 
but this inscription is not very satisfactorily made 
out ; and those arguments seem to be the strongest, 
which, from a comparison of the minuteness and 
profusion of ornaments of the Matson Quarrce 
with the more simple architecture of the Augustan 
age, would fix its date at a later period. 

8th, My first impression of the French cha- 



1818.] NisMES. 153 

racter is, that it must be greatly changed from 
that gay and lively frivolity, of vrhich we used to 
hear so much. My fellow passengers are serious 
and reserved ; each man seems to suspect his 
neighbour ; and at the Table d'Hote, where I have 
dined and supped during my route, the company 
could not have been more silent and sombre, if 
the scene had been laid in England during the 
month of November. There is a crest-fallen look 
about them, and they shake their heads and shrug 
their shoulders when they talk of the Congress, 
in gloomy apprehension of the future. 

This seventh day’s journey brought us at last 
to Montpellier ; where, being heartily tired of the 
jumbling of the carriage, I was well disposed to 
make a halt. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



Montpellier — Climate — Party Spirit — Conscription — Buffon 

— Iron Mask — Rousseau — Journey to Toulouse — Beziers 

— Canal of Languedoc. 

October 9th. The situation of Montpellier is 
very fine ; and the environs are pretty. The view 
from the Place de Peyrou, where from one spot 
you see the Mediterranean to the south, and on a 
fine day may command the Pyrenees to the vrest, 
and the Alps to the east, is superb. All the statues 
which once ornamented this place were destroyed 
during the inconoclastic fury of the revolution. 

10th. Engaged a lodging in a clean pro testant 
family on the Boulevard de la Comedie ; and for 
two rooms am to pay sixty francs per month. I 
would rather have established myself in a maison 
de pension^ but there is no such thing in Mont- 
pelher ; so that one is forced to dine at a restau- 
rateur’s, which to an invalid in winter-time is a 
serious inconvenience. 

There is a custom amongst the restaurateurs in 
this part of France, which to a resident is worth 



MONTPELLIER — CLIMATE. 



155 



1818.] 



knowing. If you dine regularly at the same house, 
you may, by paying a certain sum in advance, have 
credit for one-fifth more than you have paid. 

11th to 18th. A week of severe illness. It is 
difficult to conceive how Montpellier ever obtained 
a name for the salubrity of its climate. For pec- 
toral complaints it is probably one of the worst in 
the world. It is true, there is almost always a 
clear blue sky ; but the air is sharp and biting, 
and you are constantly assailed by the hise, or the 
marin ; — and it is difficult to say which of these 
two winds is the most annoying. 

The one brings cold, and the other damp. The 
climates of Europe are but litttle understood in 
England, nor indeed is it an easy thing to ascer- 
tain the truth, with respect to climate. Travellers 
generally speak from the impression of a single 
season, and we all know how much seasons vary. 

I believe that Pisa is the very best place on the 
continent during the winter for complaints of the 
chest; and Nice, of which I speak from good 
authority, is perhaps the very worst. The air of 
the first, which is situated in a low plain, is warm, 
mild, and muggy; that of the second is pure, 
keen, and piercing. The air of Montpellier is of 
this latter character ; — it is as different from Pisa, 



156 MONTPELLIER PARTY SPIRIT. [oCT. 

as frisky cider from milk and water, and every 
mouthful of it irritates weak lungs, and sets them 
coughing. If there be any climate preferable to 
Pisa, it may perhaps be Rome ; where the air is 
pure without being piercing ; and, if one might 
illustrate it by a comparison with a liquor, I should 
compare it to cowslip wine. 

19th. Nothing can be more dull than Mont- 
pelher is at present. There is nothing going on 
in the shape of amusement or instruction. It is 
vacation, and the lecture-rooms are shut. There 
is but little society ; and the good people here, as if 
civil dudgeon were not enough to set folks together 
by the ears, have seasoned their dissensions with 
the sauce piquante of religious hatred— and are 
with difficulty restrained from cutting each other’s 
throats. While the present king lives, things may 
continue quiet ; but the protestants seem to fear 
that under his more orthodox brother the tragedy 
of St. Bartholomew might be revived. 

Nor do these fears seem to be wholly without 
foundation. The scenes that took place here and 
at Nismes, in 1815, after the second abdication 
of Napoleon, were dreadful. The triumph of a 
party in France is something more than a change 
of ministry ; for the re-action that it produces 



157 



1818.] MONTPELLIER — PARTY SPIRIT. 

amongst the inflammable inhabitants of the south- 
ern provinces, is followed by proscriptions and 
massacres. 

The party that is uppermost cannot be content 
without cutting the throats of their opponents. 
This they proceeded to do in 1815, but the king 
interposed to check the outrageous zeal of his 
ultra-adherents ; and this is likely to happen again 
at any time, if, instead of endeavouring to be the 
common protector of all his people, the king by 
the formation of an ultra-royalist ministry were 
content to be the head of a faction. 

The way in which the election of deputies for 
the department of Gard was conducted in the 
year 1815, shows the means by which the ruling 
party in this part of the world would wish to 
maintain its ascendancy ; — no less than thirteen 
protestant electors were assassinated in their way 
to the electoral college. 

One is astonished by the amount of the popula- 
tion in the French towns ; Nismes is said to con- 
tain forty thousand souls, and Montpellier five- 
and-thirty thousand ; and you wonder where they 
can be stowed. 

I am surprised to find at this place, which has 
been so long the resort of well-informed people. 



158 



MONTPELLIER — CONSCRIPTION. [ocT. 

such a lamentable inattention to the most indis- 
pensable comforts and decencies of life. It would 
require the pen of Winifred Jenkins herself to 
describe some of the miserable expedients of la 
belle France ! 

Attended at the theatre, which was crowded to 
excess, to witness the drawing for the conscrip- 
tion. 

This law, which was held up as the great mo- 
tive for resisting the tyranny of Napoleon, is 
nevertheless still continued by his successors. 

The drawing was an amusing scene and truly 
French. The people assemble in a sort of am- 
phitheatre. The Prefet presides. The names of 
all those of the prescribed age are called over ; 
and every man of whatever rank, high or low, 
answers to his name, and draws his lot. If he is 
absent, the Prefet draws it for him. When any 
one drew a number above the complement re- 
quired, thereby ensuring his own exemption, his 
antics of joy were in the highest degree comic ; 
and when the number was within the complement, 
the exultation of the spectators, whose own pros- 
pects were thereby bettered, were expressed by 
the loudest applause, without any consideration 
for the feelings of the drawer. The present as- 



159 



1818.] MONTPELLIER — CONSCRIPTION/ 

sessment is light enough, as maybe collected from 
the price of a substitute, who may now be pro- 
cured for 500 francs, whereas, in Napoleon’s time, 
the price has been as high as 14,000 francs. 

There needs but one law more — a property 
tax, which is a conscription of money, as the other 
is of men — the one operating on the purses, as the 
other does upon the persons of men — to complete 
a perfect system of despotism. 

Wherever these two law^s are thoroughly esta- 
blished, and the people trained to submit to them, 
the rights of personal security and private pro- 
perty are annihilated. 

If governments would never raise more men or 
more money than the public interest required, both 
these laws are perhaps the best, because the sim- 
plest, the fairest, and the cheapest, in arriving at 
their object. But constituted as human nature is, 
none but an essentially popular government could 
be trusted with such a tremendous engine, which 
would place at its disposal every man, and every 
shilling that he has — in case of necessity; — a plea 
which was never yet wanting to justify any exer- 
cise of power. 

Napoleon did in fact take away the whole po- 
pulation at one fell swoop, and there is no saying 



160 MONTPELLIER — PROPERTY TAX. [oCT. 

where a property tax might stop, on this side of 
ninety-nine per cent. For the principle of the 
tax once admitted, the Sorites argument would 
never be wanting, to furnish the minister of finance 
with a pretence for plucking out one more hair ; 

Utor permisso, caudeeque piles ut equinze 

Paullatim vello : et demo unum demo etiam unum ; 

Dum cadat elusus ratione mentis acervi.” 

Still, however, there are so many arguments in 
favour of a property tax properly modified, that 
in a free government like England, where the 
people through their representatives exercise a 
control over the national expenditure, there seems 
but one condition wanting to make it the best, as 
it is unquestionably the fairest and cheapest mode 
of raising money, which is, that it should be the 
only tax. In this case, it might safely be trusted 
to the feelings of the representatives themselves, 
to take care that a tax, which came home so im- 
mediately to their own business and bosoms, was 
not unnecessarily increased. 

If this had been the system of raising the sup- 
plies in England during the last century, it may 
well be doubted whether such vast sums would 
have been expended; — sums which are easily 



161 



ISIS.] MONTPELLlEk — PROPERTY TAX. 

voted, when it is proposed, that they shall be raised 
by an increase of duty of a halfpenny upon this, 
and a penny on that article ; — a proposal that is 
agreed to, as a matter of course, and nobody thinks 
it worth while to pause and consider from whose 
pocket the money is to come* If then all other 
taxes were abolished, the property tax might be 
hailed as a security for economy of expenditure, 
as it is in itself the least expensive of all taxes, in 
the collection. It has been calculated that a man 
already pays at least the half of his income, in 
some shape or other, to the support of govern- 
ment. If this be so, he would surely not fare the 
worse by paying the same sum openly as a 50 
per cent, duty upon property ; which would then 
reach the exchequer without being subjected to 
the enormous deductions that are now made from 
it by all the various charges of collection. 

This would then be the only shape in which 
the tax-gatherer would appear, and England 
might hope to become again, beyond all others, 
the land of cheapness and plenty. 

But if the property tax be brought forward 
only when all other means fail ; for there is a 
limit to indirect taxation — when two and two no 



VOL, IF. 



M 



163 



MONTPELLIER — PROPERTY TAX. [oCT. 

longer make four — when increase of duty only 
produces decrease of consumption — if it be intro- 
duced as the pincers, to extract those sums which 
will not yield to the common turn-screw of taxa- 
tion, — it must then be regarded as an additional 
weight to the already enormous burden, under 
the pressure of which the agriculture, the trade, 
and the prosperity of the country are now lan- 
guishing. 

It would not be one of the least advantages of 
such a system of taxation, that it would take away 
the arguments of those who, for their own pur- 
poses, seek to persuade the labouring classes that 
the principal part of the taxes, as at present im- 
posed, is paid by them. These arguments, how- 
ever, have manifestly no foundation; for no axiom 
of political economy seems more clear, than that 
the taxes upon the necessaries of life are not, in 
point of fact, paid by the labouring classes them- 
selves ; and that by increasing or diminishing the 
duty of any article of their necessary consumption, 
little more is done, as it regards them, than even- 
tually to increase or diminish the rale of their 
wages. They do indeed feel all taxes, but it is 
remotely, and in the same way that they would 



163 



1818.] MONTPELLIER — CONSCRIPTS. 

really feel the property tax; — namely, by the 
operation of that and every other tax upon capi- 
tal, in abridging the means of employing them. 

One of the conscripts behaved so riotously, 
that the gens d’armes took him into custody ; but, 
as they were conducting him through the streets, 
his mother raised a mob in his favour, who, after 
a sharp struggle, succeeded in rescuing the pri- 
soner from his keepers, and bore him off in 
triumph. 

20th. While sitting at breakfast this morning, 
I saw my hero of yesterday with his mother, tied 
back to back in a cart, escorted by a large party 
of cavalry, who lodged them safely in the prison 
of the town. 

Attended the drill of the recruits, which is con- 
stantly going on, as if France were preparing for 
an immediate campaign. The dishabille of the 
soldiers, especially of the cavalry, is very slovenly. 
The infantry march to the sound of the drum 
alone, for there are no lifers amongst them. The 
troops in this quarter are small, slight, and 
scraggy ; and if I am not mistaken, there is more 
of muscle and sinew in one Englishman than in 
half a score of them. I speak only of the in- 
fantry ; for there is a great contrast between them 

M 2 



164 



. MONTPELLIER — BUFFON. 



[oCT. 



and the cavalry, who seemed to be picked men. 
Went to the theatre for the first, and for the last 
time. The actors were worse than I ever saw in 
England. 

21st to 28th. Confined to the house. Rambled 
through BufFon’s — Discours sur la Nature des 
Animaux — which is very ingenious and clever, ex- 
cepting his blasphemy against love, of which he 
seems to have had a very low opinion. He seems 
to think that love and friendship cannot be iden- 
tified, and felt for the same object. Did he judge 
from his experience of French w’omen ? 

Bufibn, with all his eloquence, is a remarkable 
instance of that national coarseness and grossness 
of feeling, which is so much the characteristic of 
the French. They are eminently deficient in sen- 
sibility, imagination, and enthusiasm ; when they 
attempt to be sentimental, they do but talk it, — 
and cannot even talk it well. I doubt whether 
the Pleasures of Imagination could be made in- 
telligible to them by any translation. Every man 
thinks he knows the meaning of sentiment ; — and 
yet, it is a difficult word to define, without deter- 
mining its application; but I believe it is commonly 
used in opposition to mere animal sense, which is 
all that the French word sentiment often signifies. 



MONTPELLIER — BUFFON. 



1G5 



1818.] 



For instance, the sentiment of love, in our use of 
the word, is something very different from the 
animal sense, which maybe perhaps the foundation 
of the passion between the sexes. It is sense re- 
fined and exalted, through the influence of mind, 
by purer thoughts, and higher considerations ; 
which, while they strip the passion of its gross- 
ness, increase its intensity and energy, and by 
expanding its views, convert the transitory enjoy- 
ment of animal desire, into a feeling as durable 
and lasting as the mind itself. 

But, let us .hear Buffon on this subject. 
“ Amour ! Desir inne ! Ame de la Nature ! — ^ — 
Source feconde de tout plaisir, de toute volupte, 
pourquoi fais-tu I’etat heureux de tous les etres, 
et le malheur de I’liomme ? 

“ C’est qu’il n’y a que la physique de cette pas- 
sion qui soit bon, c’est que, malgre ce que peuvent 

dire les gens epris, le moral n’en vaut rien. 

Les animaux guides par le sentiment seul leurs 

desirs sont toujours proportionncs a la puissance 
de jouir, ils sentent autant qu’ils jouissent, et ils 
ne jouissent qu’autant qu’ils sentent. 

“I/homme, aucontraire, en voulant inventer des 
plaisirs, n’a fait que gater la Nature. 



166 MONTPELLIER — BUFFON. [oCT. 

“ Tout ce qu’il y a de bon dans I’amour appar- 
tient done aux animaux tout aussi bien qu’a nous.” 

^ Who but a Frenchman could have written thus ? 
but a Frenchman cannot rise out of the mire of 
sensuality ; — and their literature is full of sneers 
and ridicule of that enthusiasm of heart, and ele- 
vation of soul, which seek to improve our nature, 

“ And lift from earth our low desire.” 

29th. Inspection of soldiers, and grand field- 
day. Nothing can be less showy than the ap- 
pearance of the infantry. They have no feathers 
or tufts in their caps, nor fifers in their band. In 
going through the manual exercise, the French 
seem to be much quicker than any soldiers I have 
seen. For instance — present arms — and — order 
arms — are performed at two motions ; which in 
our own drill, I believe, employ three distinct acts. 

The soldiers are as rapid in executing ma- 
noeuvres, as in going through the exercise. But 
the word of command is much more noisy than 
with us ; and it is repeated and vociferated by 
the officers, from the colonel downwards, so as to 
resemble the hallooing of cattle-drivers. 

30th. Crawled round the botanical garden ; — 



ISIS.] MONTPELLIER — THE IRON MASK. 1G7 

the pleasantest promenade in Montpellier. It was 
here that Young, the poet, buried his daughter. 
The longer I stay at Montpellier, the less I like 
it. The inhabitants are characterised in the pro- 
verbs of their own country. Pound seven Jews 
in a mortar, says one of these, and the juice will 
make one Montpelliard. — Proverbs must always 
be understood with some grains of allowance ; 
though they have generally a foundation in truth. 
But, it would be unfair to judge of Montpellier 
during the vacation. It is a celebrated school of 
medicine, and the lectures, in that liberal spirit 
which distinguishes the public institutions of this 
country — and I am glad of an opportunity of 
speaking in favour of France — are open to all that 
choose to attend, without any expense. 

31st. Stumbled “ in the course of my reading,” 
upon an account of the taking of the Bastile, in 
which there is an attempt to clear up the mystej’y 
of the man in the iron mask. It is stated that a 
paper was found, recording the arrival of Fouquet 
in the Bastile from the island of St. Marguerite, 
in an iron mask. 

This suggestion receives some corroboration 
from the history of Fouquet’s disgrace and punish- 
ment ; in which there are such remarkable coin- 



168 MONTPELLIER — THE IRON MASK. [oCT. 

cidences with the story of the Iron Mask, that I 
am surprised Voltaire, who, in his Age of Louis 
XIV., relates Fouquet’s fall immediately after his 
account of the mysterious prisoner, was not struck 
with them. For, he teUs us that Fouquet was 
sent to the Isle of St. Marguerite, and that the 
Iron Mask was brought fro7n the Isle of St. Mar- 
guerite; and, in concluding Fouquet’s history, he 
adds this remarkable circumstance, — that while 
the smallest action of his life was celebrated with 
the most minute detail, nobody knew when or 
where he died, 

Voltaire is unable to explain, and indeed there 
is something unaccountable, in the mystery and 
precaution which were thought necessary in the 
arrest and detention of Fouquet. The same rea- 
sons, whatever they were, might have suggested 
the continued concealment of his person in the 
iron mask, which has given rise to so much spe-? 
culation. 

Fouquet was aiTested in 1661, — the precise 
date of the Iron Mask’s arrival in the Island of 
St. Marguerite. We know that, after an imprison- 
ment of twenty-nine years, the Iron Mask was 
removed from St. Marguerite, by the keeper of 
the prison in that island, to the Bastile, upon his 



MONTPELLIER — ROUSSEAU. 



169 



1818.] 



appointment to the governorship of that fortress. 
Now, Voltaire tells us, that though nothing certain 
was known with respect to Fouquet’s end, yet, 
there was a notion amongst his friends, that he 
had quitted the Island of St. Marguerite before 
his death. 

These are remarkable coincidences ; nor is there 
any thing in Fouquet’s age to make the identity of 
these two persons impossible. The removal of 
the Iron Mask to the Bastile took place in 1690, 
and he died in 1703, after a captivity of forty-two 
years. Fouquet was born in 1615, and was In- 
tendant General of the Finances in 1643, at the 
age of twenty-eight. In 1661, the date of his 
arrest, he was forty-six, and forty-two years of 
captivity will make him eighty-eight at the time 
of his death ; — that is, if he were indeed the Iron 
Mask who died in 1703. 

November 1st to 8th. A week of confinement. 
Rambled through Voltaire, Bayle, and Rousseau. 
Rousseau’s “ Confession of a Savoyard Curate,” 
though written, as it would seem, to invalidate 
the authority of Christianity, leaves behind an 
impression in its favour, stronger perhaps than 
is produced by most works written purposely to 
defend it. 



MONTPELLIER — ROUSSEAU. 



170 



[nov. 



And indeed, Bishop Porteus has not disdained 
to quote it from the pulpit, to advocate the cause 
of religion. It is one of the most splendid spe- 
cimens of eloquence extant in any language, and 
the whole tone of the sentiments illustrates a pas- 
sage in ono of Voltaire’s letters to Hume. “ You 
are mistaken,” says he, “ in Rousseau ; he has a 
hankering after the Bible, — and is little better 
than a Christian after a fashion of his own.” 

After all, what is there that can he urged 
against Christianity, which may not be directed 
with equal force against Deism ? The doubts of 
the Atheist, considered as a question of abstract 
reasoning, can only perhaps be answered, — as 
Berkeley’s reasoning against the existence of the 
material world was answered — by boldly begging 
the question at issue, and resolving the cause of 
our belief into an original principle of our con- 
stitution. For the existence of an infinite first 
Cause can never be made a matter of demonstra- 
tion. The physical proof, derived from the order 
and arrangement of the universe, is manifestly in- 
conclusive. The intelligence of the work may 
prove an intelligent contriver: — but it cannot 
therefore follow, that the contriver is Eternal — 
Almighty — Infinite — all, in a word, that we in- 



1818.] MONTPELLIER — ROUSSEAU. 171 

elude under the sacred name. Again, the meta- 
physical proof, as it is called, which, from the con- 
sciousness of our own existence, would trace it up 
to some necessarily existing first cause, is not a 
jot more satisfactory. The sum and substance of 
the whole argument amounts to this. I exist — 
therefore something exists. If something exists — 
something must have existed from all eternity ; 
for “ Nothing can come of nothing ; ” — and this 
something is the first cause, of which we are in 
search. But the axiom on which this argument 
is founded, ex nihilo nihil fit, will cut both ways ; 
and it is perhaps more incomprehensible to human 
faculties to conceive an uncaused first cause, than 
to meet the difficulty in the first stage ; — and con- 
sider the world itself as uncaused and eternal. 
The Atheist indeed neither affirms nor denies ; 
but suggests that the existence of a Deity is an 
arbitrary hypothesis, to account for the pheno- 
mena of the universe. Can the Deist confute him 
by argument ? Must he not at last be brought to 
acknowledge that his own belief is founded upon 
faith ? — and the speculative Atheist will probably 
not deny that it is a faith, which we all feel im- 
pelled, by the very constitution of our nature, to 



172 MONTPELLIER — ROUSSEAU. [nOV. 

admit intuitively, as soon as we can comprehend 
the terms of the proposition ; — for Atheism is a 
doctrine which, however the head may be amused 
with its subtleties, the heart rejects. But does 
the faith of the Deist go far enough? Will Deism 
satisfy the head, or administer consolation to the 
heart ? Is it not a cold and comfortless creed, alike 
unsatisfactory to both? — Unless indeed we could 
return again to Paradise. Adam might have been 
a Deist, and contentedly a deist ; but fallen man 
has need of something more. The world is no 
longer a happy garden. Evil assaults us on every 
side ; and we need not look farther than our 
own hearts, for evidence of the continued exist- 
ence of that rebellious opposition to sense of duty, 
which we are taught was the cause of its intro- 
duction into the world. But be the cause what 
it might — the existence of evil, in every appalling 
form, cannot be denied ; here it is ; and how will 
the Deist reconcile these phenomena with his ab- 
stract ideas of a Deity, without having recourse to 
the Revelation that he denies ? — which not only 
explains the fearful mystery of our present situa- 
tion, but at the same time points out the remedy ; 
and furnishes us with assurances, which unassisted 



1818.] JOURNEY TO TOULOUSE. 173 

reason could never have suggested, by which wc 
are enabled to look forward with faith and hope^ 
to a better state of existence hereafter. 

9th. Left Montpellier in the diligence at night 5 
and arrived at Beziers to breakfast next morning. 

The French diligences have been very much 
improved of late years, but there is still room for 
further progress. The carrying six inside, which 
is the usual complement, is detestable. The con- 
ducteur, answering to our guard, rides in the ca- 
briolet ; while the vehicle is driven by a postillion, 
who manoeuvres his five horses, which are mar- 
shalled two at wheel and three leaders abreast, 
with admirable dexterity, riding on the near side 
wheel-horse. The horses seem to be trained with 
great care, and obey the word of command like a 
troop of soldiers. 

In Italy and France, the voice is much more 
used than the whip, in the government of horses ; 
indeed it is, I believe, with beasts as with men, — 
mild treatment will often reclaim tempers that 
kicks and blows would only tend to make more 
brutal and vicious. 

My companions in the diligence were all on the 
qui vive, for the carriage had been stopped and 
robbed two evenings before, by a single footpad. 



174 



BEZIERS. 



[nov. 



This fellow had practised a most ingenious stra- 
tagem to effect his purpose. He manufactured 
ten men of straw, and drew them up in the road 
in battle array ; — then, having taken his post a 
little in advance, he ordered the diligence to stop ; 
threatening, if the least resistance was offered, to 
call up his companions, and put all the passengers 
to death. In this manner he laid the whole party 
under contribution, amongst whom were two 
Spanish merchants, whose purses were heavily 
laden. 

10th. Beziers is situated on a commanding 
eminence, from whence there is a beautiful view 
of the river Orbe, and a rich and cultivated valley, 
for many miles. Its situation would have tempted 
me to make some stay, but the streets were so 
dirty, and the appearance of the people so mi- 
serable, that I despaired of finding a decent 
residence. 

There is a cache d’eau, which goes every day 
from Beziers at twelve o’clock, by the famous 
canal of Languedoc, to Toulouse. Finding that 
this passage-boat would be four days in making 
the voyage, as the weather was very bad, I de- 
cided to continue in the diligence. In fine weather 
the boat offers a pleasant and most economical 



1818.] CANAL OF LANGUEDOC. 175 

mode of traversing this country. The fare of each 
day’s passage is 30 sous, and the universal price 
throughout France, regulated by law, for supper 
at the table d’hote and lodging, is three francs 
and a half ; though an Englishman is generally 
charged as much again ; hut if he travels by a 
public conveyance, he need never pay more than 
the above named sum. 

This canal was the work of Paul Riquet under 
the auspices of Louis XIV., and has been of more 
use to France than all his victories, and a more 
splendid monument of his glory than all his play- 
thing waterworks at Versailles. It connects the 
Atlantic and the Mediterranean ; near this town 
it is carried through a mountain by means of a 
tunnel, which, however common now, was an ex- 
traordinary enterprize then. In some places it is 
conveyed by aqueducts over bridges, under which 
other rivers pursue their course. 

In order to secure a supply of water in dry 
seasons a basin has been constructed at Ferreol, 
which is perhaps the most extraordinary part of 
the whole undertaking. This immense reservoir, 
built of granite, is an English mile in length, 
and about half that distance in breadth, and 



17G 



ARRIVAL AT TOULOUSE. 



[noV. 

cotitaihs an area of 595 acres — collecting the 
waters of the various springs that rise in the Black 
Mountain. 

The road from Beziers offers little worthy of 
observation. Languedoc is very different in 
reality from the charming pictures which Mrs. 
Radcliffe has drawn of it in her “ Mysteries of 
Udolpho.” 

The people have a miserable look, denoting 
poverty and wretchedness. Shoes and stockings 
are very generally dispensed with ; or if shoes are 
worn, it is the wooden sabot, which is a sad clumsy 
contrivance. 

Manure seems an article in great request in this 
province. Boys run after the diligence for a 
mile after changing horses, to catch the first fruits 
of exercise upon a full stomach ; and I observed 
that a handful of this precious commodity was a 
common stake set between two lads in playing at 
quoits. 

The country improves as you approach Tou- 
louse ; a neatly painted cottage occasionally meets 
the eye, and something like an attention to comfort 
is observable. After two nights and two days in 
the diligence, we arrived at Toulouse. I remember 



1818.] ARRIVAL AT TOULOUSE. 177 

the time when the very idea of two days and two 
nights in a stage-coach, carrying six inside and 
full all the way, would have made me ill. But 
travelling “ brings us acquainted with strange bed- 
fellows,” and is the best receipt I know for curing 
a fine gentleman. 



VOL. II. 



N 



178 



[nov. 



CHAPTER XIV. 

Toulouse — Jean Galas — Battle of Toulouse — French Po- 
litics — La Fontaine — Law of Elections — L’6cole Royale — 
French Cookery — French Cleanliness — Criminal Juris- 
prudence. 

November 12th. The first impression of Tou- 
louse is favourable, though it has a deserted ap- 
pearance. It has lost much of its consequence by 
the Revolution, which has swept away its Par- 
liament ; grass now grows in some of its streets ; 
and the population, which was formerly as high as 
80,000, is now not computed at more than 55,000. 
It is built of brick, and this gives it a warmer look 
than the cold white stone of Montpellier. The 
bold line of the Pyrenees forms a noble back- 
ground to the view from the bridge, which is one 
of the chief ornaments of the town ; the Garonne 
being here above 800 feet wide. 

Established myself in a pleasant lodging in the 
Rue des Cordeliers^ looking due south into a large 
garden. Two rooms — 30 francs per month. 

13th. Explored the town. In the great square 



TOULOUSE. 



179 



1818.] 

is the capitol, containing the apartments in which 
the estates general of Languedoc used to hold 
their sessions. There are two public libraries, 
one or other of which is open to the public every 
day, containing large and valuable collections of 
ancient and modern books in all languages, with 
every accommodation for reading. At Toulouse 
there is an University containing at least 1,500 
students, and there are daily lectures in che- 
mistry, botany, and all branches of natural phi- 
losophy ; and these, like the libraries, are thrown 
open to all who have an inclination to benefit by 
them gratis. These are resources which make 
Toulouse a more agreeable residence than most 
provincial towns ; but a provincial town is bad at 
best. If one must live in a town, it should be in 
a capital ; — provincial politics and parish scandal 
are intolerably tiresome. 

The promenades here are extensive and pretty; 
though the beauty of these is sadly defiled by the 
abominably filthy habits of the people. But this 
is the case throughout France ; the sti-eets and 
the public walks are scarcely passable, owing to 
the disgraceful and disgusting practices of a people, 
who set themselves up as models of politeness and 
bienstance. 

N 2 



180 



TOULOUSE JEAN GALAS. 



[nov. 



14th -to 18th. Rain. My neighbour in my 
lodging-house is a fine old veteran of seventy- 
two, whose history would furnish the materials for 
a novel. He tells me he was present at the. exe- 
cution of poor Galas, in the square of St. George 
in this town. 

The successful efforts of Voltaire to establish 
his innocence, and to save his family from sharing 
his fate, have given notoriety to the tragic history 
of this venerable victim of bigotry and injustice, 
who, at the age of 65, was condemned to be broken 
alive on the wheel, for the supposed murder of 
his son, without a shadow of proof. It was urged 
against him that he had conspired with the rest 
of his family to put his son to death, to prevent 
him from becoming a convert from the protestant 
to the catholic religion, as one of his brothers had 
become before him. The truth seems to have 
been, that the son, who was of a melancholy tem- 
perament, had hanged himself. 

Poor Galas supported the agonies of his pu- 
nishment, which lasted two hours, with the most 
patient resignation; and while he calmly pro- 
tested his own innocence, spoke with charity and 
forgiveness of his judges. 

Nor were the blows of the executioner all that 



1818.] BATTLE OF TOULOUSE. 181 

he had to endure during these two dreadful hours ; 
for he was also subjected to the mental racking 
of a catholic priest, who was torturing him with 
exhortations to confess his guilt. 

At last the signal was given to the executioner 
to inflict the voup de grace; when the priest him- 
self, convinced by the calm and steady denial of 
the dying father, addressed the surrounding po- 
pulace in the following words, which seem to have 
been riveted in the memory of my old friend — 
“ Voild Vame du juste qui s’ etivole.’* 

19th. Went over the scene of the battle of Tou- 
louse. Soult’s position seems to have been ad- 
mirably chosen, and as strong as nature and art 
could make it. The difficulty of ascertaining the 
truth upon any one point, makes one doubt of all 
the details of history. The French, with their usual 
hardihood of assertion, would fain persuade you 
that the Duke of Wellington was informed of the 
events that had happened at Paris when he at- 
tacked Soult’s position, and fought the battle of 
Toulouse ; but that he was anxious to gather one 
more wreath of laurel. Napoleon abdicated on 
tlie 4th of April, and the battle of Toulouse was 
fought on the 10th. It has however been clearly 
proved in this case, that the officers despatched 



18^ BATTLE OF TOULOUSE. [nOV. 

from Paris to inform the Duke of Wellington of 
the revolution in the government were arrested 
and detained at Montauban by Bouvier Dumou- 
lart, Prefect of the district ; and they did not reach 
the Duke till the evening of the 12th ; — and hence 
this fruitless effusion of blood six days after the 
abdication of Napoleon, which in fact put an end 
to the war. 

20th. I find I have committed a great mistake 
in coming to Toulouse. I ought to have returned 
to Italy from Chamberry ; for I see that a winter 
in France will be intolerable, after dear dehghtful 
Italy ; but it is now too late to correct this error — 
and so I must e’en make the best of it. The 
English are regarded here with an evil eye, and 
it is not surprising that there should exist a sore- 
ness of spirit in this quarter, where the national 
vanity received so bitter an humiliation. I have 
heard my old neighbour describe the horror, in- 
dignation, astonishment, and shame, that he felt, 
on seeing an army of Englishmen profaning the 
sacred territory^' and marching into Toulouse en 
maitres ; though history might have furnished 
him with sufficient examples of similar invasions 
to diminish his surprise; — and even here, our 
Wellington was pursuing the very track which 



BATTLE OF TOULOUSE. 



183 



1818.] 



our Black Prince had traversed as a conqueror 
before him. But a Frenchman reads no history 
that does not furnish gratification to his national 
vanity ; and to talk to him of any thing anterior 
to the reign of Louis XIV., is to talk of what he 
knows as little, as of what happened before the 
Deluge. 

Though the French cannot forget or forgive 
the battle of Toulouse, yet they speak in terms of 
the highest praise of the good conduct of in- 
dividuals, and with admiration of the discipline of 
the army. It seems that they had been so ac- 
customed to associate war with plunder and con- 
tribution, that the good old-fashioned mode which 
the English have never forsaken, of softening as 
much as possible the evils of war by paying for 
the supplies they demanded, struck them as some- 
thing new and unheard of ; — though I doubt 
whether this admiration be not generally accom- 
panied with a suspicion of the motive, or a sneer 
at the folly of such conduct. “ Few people,” says 
Fielding, “ think better of others than of them- 
selves, nor do they readily allow the existence of 
any virtue of which they perceive no traces in 
their own minds ; for which reason, it is next to 
impossible to persuade a rogue that you are an 



184 < TOULOUSE — FRENCH POLITICS. [nOV. 

honest man ; nor would you ever succeed by the 
strongest evidence, was it not for the comfortable 
conclusion which the rogue draws, that he who 
proves himself honest proves himself a fool at the 
same time.” And yet the French ought to have 
learned, if nations could learn any thing from ex- 
perience — that honesty, in the end, is the best 
policy ; and that the policy of wisdom is, after all, 
the policy of virtue. 

21st. Napoleon is not in the south of France 
the idol of that blind adoration which the Italians 
still pay him. His character seems here to be 
very correctly appreciated, and every body is fully 
aware of the enormous evils which he inflicted 
upon France by his return from Elba. The king 
is denounced by the ultra-royalists as a Jacobin ; 
but the Jacobins do not recognise him as a true 
brother ; still, I believe, he has the great mass of 
the people on his side. United with the Charte, 
he will always have the majority with him ; but 
then he must not use the Charte like an umbrella, 
which is only brought out in foul weather, to ward 
off the pelting storm ; — for the people consider it 
equally necessary as a parasol, to shelter them in 
fair weather from the scorching rays of royalty. 
If the king have not a greater majority now, it is 



185 



1818.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH POLITICS. 

because there are some who see, or fancy they 
see, in the first acts of his reign, a disposition to 
establish principles, tending to invalidate the very 
existence of the compact between king and people 
— which they were certainly justified in believing 
had been solemnly accepted as the terms of his 
restoration. Thus, his dating his reign from the 
death of Louis XVII., his abandonment of the 
national colour which he had himself worn as 
Monsieur in 1789, and his second restoration at 
the point of foreign bayonets, have raised a spirit 
against him which nothing but time, and the most 
prudent conduct on his part, can soften. 

Mr. Fox has pronounced, that of all revolutions 
a restoration is the worst. Generally speaking it 
must be so ; for the restored family, bred up in 
ancient prejudices, can seldom forget the power 
which they once enjoyed; and the people will be 
for ever suspecting them of forming designs to 
recover it, whether they have such intentions or 
not. This want of good understanding between 
king and people must be greatly increased, wheh 
as in France, the restoration has taken place by 
foreign interference ; and when the people must 
feel that they have sinned beyond the bounds of 
forgiveness. It is indeed impossible, that there 
should be a cordial union between revolutionized 



186 TOULOUSE — FRENCH POLITICS. [nOV. 

France, and the legitimate claims of the Bourbons. 
Who can expect that the King, or the Comte 
d’ Artois, should divest theinselves of all fraternal 
feelings ; or who can be surprised that the 
Duchess d’Angouleme should shudder with horror 
at the sight of the murderers of her father, and 
at the recollection of the suflferings of her brother 
and herself? On the other side, it is equally na- 
tural that the French people, according to the 
maxim which lays it down that we never forgive 
those whom we have injured, should entertain 
a strong prejudice against the Bourbon family. 
The leading feature in the national character 
is vanity ; — now their national vanity has been 
humbled in the dust, and this humiliation is, un- 
fortunately for the Bourbons, inseparably con- 
nected with their restoration. The feeling against 
them was so strong on their second restoration, 
that proposals, it is said, were made to the Allies, 
offering rather to receive the King of Saxony, or 
the Prince of Orange, or any other King that the 
Allies would have vouchsafed to give them. 

The throne of the Bourbons seems then to be 
placed upon a barrel of gunpowder; nothing 
but consummate prudence can reconcile the people 
to their sway, and prevent a fatal explosion. 

It is a common notion, and the enemies of the 



187 



1818.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH POLITICS. 

Bourbons are at the greatest pains to strengthen 
it, that the Comte cV Artois disapproves entirely of 
the system of the king; and that he is determined 
to restore the ancient regime in church and state, 
and to be aut Ccesar aut nullm. It matters little 
whether this be true, or not ; the effect is the 
same — ^if the people can be persuaded to believe 
it. Accordingly, you hear a revolution talked of 
as a thing of course at the death of the king ; 
and there is no saying what might happen if he 
were to die immediately. But if he should con- 
tinue to live a few years, the system which he has 
commenced, will so have established itself ; and 
the people will be so sensible of the advantages 
which they have obtained from the Charte, that 
the future king, be he who or what he may, will 
be compelled to pursue the same course, and will 
be without the power, whatever his inclination 
may be, to disturb the order of the machine of 
government, or endanger the tranquillity of the 
nation. 

22d. Attended the church of the French 
Protestants. Heard a most excellent sermon, on 
the text — “ Je laverai mes mains dans Vinnocence, 
etje m' approcherai d ton autel, o Eternel." The 
service consisted of a lesson from the Old Testa- 



188 



TOULOUSE — THEATRE. 



[noV. 



merit, a few prayers, a good deal of psalmody, 
and a sermon which was preached memoriter. 
But in the prayers, and the sermon, there was a 
little too much onction for my taste. The priest 
pitched his voice in a recitative key, which must 
becoriie tiresome in a long service. 

The congregation was numerous ; each person 
had a chair ; and there was no kneehng down. 
The church was cold, and the men wore their hats 
without ceremony. 

23d. I am pleased to hear, in attending the 
lectures in chemistry and experimental philosophy, 
the constant mention of English names, and Eng- 
lish improvements, and discoveries, with the 
highest eulogiums upon those of our countrymen, 
from Newton downwards, who have advanced the 
progress of knowledge. In the hbrary to-day I 
discovered an iEschylus and Euripides,which had 
belonged to Bacine, with marginal notes in his 
own hand-writing ; but the notes were rather 
curious than valuable. 

In the evening to the theatre ; which is newly 
built and very handsome. Le parti de Chaise de 
Henri IV. was well acted. The air of Vive 
Henri Quatre, which was introduced in the supper 
scene, was very feebly applauded. 



1818.] TOULOUSE — LA FONTAINE.- 189 

24tli to 30th. Confined at home by severe in- 
disposition. — Amused myself with La Fontaine. 
Charming style ; — “ He seems to produce without 
labour, what no labour could improve.” This fa- 
cility of production is essential to poetry, and 
perhaps gave rise to the maxim — Poeta nascitur; 
for if there be any appearance of effort or labour 
-^if the numbers come from the brains like bird- 
lime from frieze — the whole charm is destroyed. 
Poetry has been well defined to be 

Thoughts that voluntary move 
' Harmonious numbers.” 

This definition is well enough as far as it goes ; 
but to thoughts should also perhaps be added 
feelings, for brains alone without heart will never 
make a poet. For example. Pope, with all the 
requisite qualities of mind, wanted the deep and 
fervid feelings which are necessary to the per- 
fection of the poetical character ; without which, 
the poet can never ascend the brightest heaven of 
invention. The character of his poetry may be 
well illustrated by one of his own lines. It 

“ Plays round the head but comes not near the heart.” 

He delights us by the fertility of his fancy, the 



190 TOULOUSE — LA FONTAINE. [NOV. 

elegance of his imagination, the point and play- 
fulness of his wit, the keen discrimination of his 
satire, and the moral good sense of his reasoning ; 
hut he is seldom pathetic, and never sublime. If 
Eloisa to Abelard be an exception to this observa- 
tion, it is a solitary one — and exceptio prohat regu~ 
lam; and even in that poem the sentiment seems 
rather to be adopted, than to be the genuine off- 
spring of the poet’s heart. 

What that soul of feeling is, that poetical vervcy 
by which alone the poet can rise to sublimity, and 
which Pope wanted; will be understood at once, 
by comparing his ode on music with Dryden’s 
divine effusion on the same subject. 

His merit even in versification seems to have 
been over-rated. Pope may perhaps be said to 
have done for verses, what Arkwright did for 
stockings, by the invention of a sort of mechanical 
process in their composition. His couplets are as 
regular, as if they had been made with the un- 
erring precision of a spinning-jenny; — and, in- 
deed, in speaking of his own talent, he himself 
makes use of a similar illustration ; 

If every wheel of that unwearied mill 

That turn’d ten thousand verses now stand still !” 



1818.] TOULOUSE — LA FONTAINE. 191 

The effect of this has been to supersede the ne- 
cessity of much skill in the individual workman ; 
and accordingly, we see every day how easy it is 
to imitate the versification of Pope — for the me- 
chanism was too simple to elude discovery ; but 
where shall we look for the freedom and variety of 
Dry den ? 

But to return to La Fontaine ; — what can be 
more affecting than his tale of the “ Two Pi^ 
geons V' It breathes the very soul of tenderness ; 
and there are throughout his writings touches of 
pathos and sensibility that will rarely be found in 
French poetry. What heart there is in the lines 
beginning with 

Qu’un ami veritable est une douce chose ! 

And his love of rural retreat is expressed with 
almost the force and feeling of Cowper: — 

“ Solitude ou je trouve une douceur secrbte 

Lieux que j’aimai toujours, ne pourrai-je jamais 
Loin du monde et du bruit, gouter I’ombre et le frais ? 

Oh ! qui m’arr^tera dans vos sombres asiles T 4'C. 4'C- 

December 1st. Now that the Congress has 
broken up, and the Allied troops are withdrawn, 
the attention of all parties is directed to the meet- 



192 TOULOUSE — LAW OF ELECTIONS. [dEC. 

ing of the Chambers. The Upper Chamber con- 
sists of 150 Peers ; the Chamber of Deputies, of 
250 Representatives ; one fifth of vrhich is dis- 
solved every year. The qualification for a deputy 
is the payment of direct taxes to the amount of 
1,000 francs per annum ; and it is also required 
that he should be 40 years of age. The quali- 
fication of an elector is the annual payment of 
taxes to the amount of 300 francs, and the full age 
of 30 years. And yet this is the new law of 
elections which the ultra royalists have denounced 
as being too democratical ! 

The chamber, which was dissolved by the king 
in 1815 for its ultra royalism, had been elected 
under the imperial system of electoral colleges ; — 
the people electing in the first instance the 
electors, and the electors then nominating the re- 
presentatives. The abuses which had crept into 
this system so utterly unfitted for its purpose — 
for it seems absolutely essential to a popular as- 
sembly that it should emanate immediately from 
the people — threw the whole power of election 
into the hands of the government; but it is to 
this system that the Ultras wish to return, for 
the result of the late elections has been very much 
in favour of the liberal party. That this should 



1818.] TOULOUSE— LAW OF ELECTIONS. 193 

have been the case is sufficiently extraordinary, if 
we consider the very limited number of the whole 
body of electors in France, which is said not to 
exceed 100,000; — a number so small, that it 
might be supposed — from the experience of what 
happens in England where the right of suffrage 
extends so much more widely — the influence of 
power and patronage would have been brought 
to bear against it with overpowering success. 
Though the popular spirit of the electors may be 
partly explained from the infancy of their insti- 
tutions, which corruption has scarcely yet had 
time to contaminate ; yet perhaps the real secret 
of their conduct may be found in their mode of 
voting by ballot. It is true that where the voting 
is secret, bribery may continue to be carried on, 
to a certain extent, by the reliance, which will 
always be placed in the performance of promises ; 
but the more pernicious influence of intimidation 
is effectually annihilated. It is this voting by 
ballot indeed, which is the only saving virtue in 
the French law of elections, and to which they 
ought to cling as the sheet anchor of their li- 
berties ; for without this, a system which vests 
the right of electing deputies for a nation of thirty 
millions in so small a body as 100,000 electors, 

VOL. II. 



0 



TOULOUSE — RECRUITING. 



194 



[dec. 



can afford no security for a real representation of 
the people. 

The other objects of contention between the 
Ultras and the Liheraux are the laws of recruit- 
ing, public instruction, and the appointment of 
mayors. 

The law of recruiting has been passed to con- 
tinue the conscription ; but it must be confessed 
that it is no longer the same terrible warrant of 
death and destruction which formerly bore that 
name. On the restoration of the king an attempt 
was made, but made in vain, to fill up the ranks of 
the army by voluntary enlistment. It was de- 
cided that France must have an army, and the 
present law was passed. This law subjects all 
the male population, who shall have attained their 
twentieth year, to the operation of the conscription. 
But it limits the period of their service to five 
years, when they have a right to their discharge ; 
and it throws open to the lowest ranks the hope 
of advancement. The equality of this law, in the 
obligation to serve and the right to promotion, is 
very distasteful to the Ultras, who can think only 
of the glorious privileges which the Nobles en- 
joyed in the army of the ancient regime. 

With respect to public instruction, the Ultras 



1818.] TOULOUSE— MAYORS — THEATRE’. 195 

wish to return to the old system of Freres Chre- 
iiens,' while the Liberaux patronise the Enseigne- 
merit mutuel, or system of Bell and Lancaster. 

The crown at present appoints the Mayors. 
The Liberaux would wish to introduce the sysUme 
municipal, by which the people would elect their 
own Mayors. 

There is a very general cry also against the ex- 
travagant emoluments of the Prefets, who are the 
creation of the Consular government. This of- 
ficer is the head of his department, and is in him- 
self what the Lord Lieutenant and the Sheriff 
are in our counties. The Prefets were of great 
use to Buonaparte in oiling the wheels of des- 
potism, and their salaries were in proportion to 
their utihty. The Prefecture of Toulouse is said 
to be worth 40,000 francs per annum. 

Went in the evening to the theatre. The play 
was Turcaret, an admired comedy of Le Sage ; — 
but it is a comedy of the old school, and the 
bags and swords of the ancient bon-ton will not 
make the modern canaille of the theatre look like 
gentlemen. I am surprised to see the waiting 
maids in the French comedy as well or perhaps 
better dressed than their mistresses. “ This is 
o’er doing termagant.” 

o 2 



196 TOULOUSE — l’ecole royale. [dec. 

2d. Went over L'tcole royale de Toulouse. 
The establishment consists of, the Proviseur, who 
is the Chef de la Matson; the Censeur, who is 
second in authority ; eleven professors of Latin ; 
three of mathematics ; one of Latin and French 
literature ; one of natural history ; one of natural 
and experimental philosophy ; one of history ; and 
seven Maitres d' etude or assistant masters. L'Au- 
monier, with a long train of assistants, tradesmen, 
and servants, from the surgeon to the shoeblack — 
complete the establishment. 

The whole number of ileves is 400. Those 
within the walls amount to 160. The terms of 
the school are 650 francs per annum — about 2^1. 
For this the boy is lodged and fed in sickness and 
in health, clothed and instructed in all that the 
above-named professors can teach him. The dress 
is a uniform of dark blue. Each boy has a small 
bed-cell to himself by night ; and a desk in the 
school-room by day. Their breakfast is bread 
and water ; dinner — bread, soup, meat, and wine, 
— supper — bread, cold meat and wine; — bread 
always a discrition. 

Nine hours per day are devoted to application. 
There are two months of vacation — September 
and October. With the exception of this va- 



197 



1818.] TOULOUSE — l’ecole royale. 

cation, the boys are kept under lock and key 
during the whole year within the walls of the 
college, beyond which they cannot stir without 
express permission. Their play-ground is within 
the w^alls, and to break these bounds without leave 
would be punished by expulsion. The internal 
discipline is conducted without having recourse to 
that brutal and degrading punishment, which, to 
the common disgrace of those that inflict and those 
who receive it, is still practised upon lads of all 
ages in the public schools of England. There is 
a sense of self-respect in every rational being, that 
revolts at the insult of being subjected to blows; 
and this sense is recognised and encouraged in 
the French schools, where no sort of corporal 
punishment is allowed ; nor do I believe it is ever 
necessary — except perhaps in early childhood, 
before the rational faculty has begun to develope 
itself. But blows present so easy a mode of car- 
rying on the business of school government, that 
it is not wonderful schoolmasters should be de- 
sirous to retain their birchen sceptre, in defiance 
of decency and common sense. But it is sur- 
prising, when the systems of Pestalozzi and others 
have been explained to all Europe, that the public 
opinion of England should not have operated 



198 TOULOUSE — l’ecole royale. [dec 

some change in this, as well as in some other par- 
ticulars of school government. 

The common means in the hands of the Pro- 
fessors of Toulouse for maintaining order are im- 
positions of tasks ; pain-sec, i. e. bread and water ; 
and penitence, which is confinement to the school- 
room under the surveillance of a Maitre d’ Etude. 
Solitary imprisonment, the heaviest of their punish- 
ments, cannot be inflicted without the sanction of 
the Proviseur, or the Censeur. Some disorders 
have lately broken out in many of the French 
schools, but these seem to have arisen from tem- 
porary causes. Party-spirit, which has so con- 
vulsed the political world, has not been entirely 
shut out of schools ; where Bourbon and Buona- 
parte have been words of discord, and the question 
Qai vive? has given rise to many a juvenile battle. 
Dame Religion too, who is seldom idle when dis- 
cord is abroad, has not been without her share 
in these disturbances, some of which have ori- 
ginated in the jealousies between Catholic and 
Protestant. 

3d. Toulouse is the land of cheap living, and 
all sorts of provisions are excellent in their kind. 
Bread is at two-pence a pound ; — wine, that is, 
the vin du pays, of very good quality, four-pence 



. 199 



1818.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH COOKERY. 

a bottle : — meat from two-pence to three-pence. 
The poultry is very fine ; you may buy a good 
turkey for 3s. 6d .. ; — a capon for Is. dd .\ — a fowl 
for a shilling ; — and a goose for 2s. 3d. Servants’ 
wages are also very low ; — I hire the attendance 
of a female servant to officiate as bed-maker, at 
half-a-crown per month. 

They have a custom here of fostering a liver 
complaint in their geese, which encourages its 
growth to the enormous weight of some pounds > 
and this diseased viscus is considered a great de- 
licacy. You get an excellent dinner at the table 
d’hote of either of the hotels, of two courses, 
dessert and wine d discretion, for 2s. 3d. I have 
established myself en pension with a family next 
door ; where I have my breakfast, dinner, wine, 
cafe, and liqueur, for 80 francs a month. 

In comparing French and English cookery, I 
think the balance is greatly in favour of the former. 
We may beat them in a few dishes, but they excel 
us in fifty. We have the advantage in soup — 
though they are fond of saying that our soups are 
nothing but hot water and pepper ; and we beat 
them in fish, because most fish cannot be dressed 
too simply. But they have an infinity of good 
things ; and if happiness consisted in good eating, 



200 TOULOUSE — FRENCH COOKERY. [dEC. 

I should recommend a man to live in France. It 
is quite a mistake to suppose that roast beef is 
confined to Old England, though the French do 
not present it in such enormous masses as we do. 
Nor indeed is there any great treat in sitting down 
to a huge limb hacked off its parent carcass, with 
an intimation that “You see your dinner;” — 
always excepting however a haunch of venison, 
or a round of corned beef, which are two of those 
morceaux peculiar to England that constitute a 
dinner in themselves. 

When you laugh at a Frenchman for eating 
frogs, he retahates upon you for breakfasting upon 
warm water and sugar. Nothing can he more 
incorrect than to suppose that the French live 
upon soup maigre ; — the lower orders indeed, I 
believe, are very temperate, and seldom taste meat; 
but, amongst the higher classes, one might almost 
parody one of our national maxims, and say — that 
one Frenchman would out-eat three Englishmen. 

Their dejedner a la fourchettey^s^^xi well served 
up, is, as they term it, superhe, magmfique; and 
wants only the addition of tea to rival the excel- 
lence of a Scotch breakfast. 

In comparing the cookery of the two nations, it 
is the general excellence of the French, that is so 



1818.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH CLEANLINESS. ^01 

much beyond our own. The best cooks in the 
various countries in Europe are nearly the same, 
for they are formed more or less after the French 
model; hut in France all are good. 

Man has been defined to be — a cooking, super- 
stitious, self-killing animal. I know not whether 
the outward signs of these inward propensities 
have yet been discovered, in cranial protuberances 
peculiar to the human head ; but when they are, 
the organ of superstition will probably be found 
to predominate in the Spanish, as that of suicide 
may perhaps prevail in the English, whilst, if there 
be any truth in craniology, the organ of cookery 
must be the leading feature of the French skull. 

So much for cookery. With respect to cleanli- 
ness ; — the balance here will incline very much in 
favour of England ; though in many particulars 
the observances of the French evince a greater 
niceness of feeling than our own. A napkin is as 
indispensable to a Frenchman at dinner as a knife 
or a fork. In the lowest inn you will always find 
this luxury, and, though it may be coarse, it is 
always clean ; nor is it confined to the parlour — 
all ranks must have their napkin, and all classes 
are equally nice in the use of a separate drinking 
glass. The silver fork too is almost universal, but 



202 TOULOUSE — FRENCH CLEANLINESS. [dEC. 

tlieir knives are villanous ; and the use, which even 
the ladies make of their sharp points in perform- 
ing the office of a toothpick, is worse. 

The ablutions of the bath are perhaps more 
generally practised in France than in England; 
though you seldom see a Frenchman with his face 
cleanly shaved, or his hands well washed. With 
regard to the ladies of the two nations — their 
pretensions to superiority in this respect were 
submitted to an emigre bishop, as an experienced 
judge of both countries, who answered — “ Les 
Atiglaises sont plus propres aux yeux des hommes 
— et les Fran^aises aux yeux de Dieu F 

But though in some few instances the French 
seem to shew a more delicate sense o^ personal com- 
fort than ourselves, yet in the general estimate 
they will be found far behind us. Their houses 
would shock our neat and tidy house-wives ; and 
their attached and detached offices are too filthy 
for description. In their persons too — though the 
bath may be used, the tooth and nail brush seem 
to be forgotten ; and they are always either smart 
or slovenly, as you see them in their evening dress, 
or in their morning dishabille. 

Lastly ; some of their habits must be condemned 
as shockingly offensive ; — what shall we say of 



1818.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH CLEANLINESS. 203 

the spitting about the floor, which is the common 
practice of women as well as men, at all times and 
seasons, not only in domestic life, but also upon 
the stage, in the characters of heroes and heroines, 
even in high imperial tragedy ? — to say nothing of 
the manoeuvres of a French pocket-handkerchief 
— called expressively by Young — “a flag of abo- 
mination” — which would disgust the feelings of 
any Englishman, without supposing him a fasti- 
dious elhe of Lord Chesterfield. 

In conversation too, though there is much of 
what may be called moral delicacy, which is shewn 
in little attentions to oblige, and a nice tact in 
avoiding whatever can give offence ; yet there 
seems a total want of physical delicacy on the part 
of the French. 

This will perhaps explain what has been much 
remarked upon by travellers; — that the French 
rarely smile at the blunders of foreigners. An 
Englishman feels his muscles irresistibly moved 
when a foreigner unwittingly touches in conversa- 
tion upon forbidden ground ; — but here, where 
there is scarcely any forbidden ground, similar 
mistakes cannot of course have the same effect. 

Feast of Sainte Barbe ; — military fete. The 
regiments of artillery had a feast, and the soldiers 



204 TOULOUSE — THEATRE. [dEC. 

in the evening cried Vive rEmpereur, in the great 
square. They were drunk, to be sure ; — but in 
vino veritas. The name of Napoleon is made to 
stand for any thing. In the mouths of the army 
it is only another word for military government 
and a military chief, without much individual at- 
tachment to him ; and in politics, if the cry of Vive 
Buonaparte have any influence, it can only be 
because it is considered as the badge of the Re- 
volution, and the changes which the Revolution 
has effected ; in opposition to the powers and 
privileges of the ancien regime. 

5th. The more I see of France and French- 
men, the more I am struck with the serious and 
sombre complexion of their manners, so different 
from the pictures of other times. Nothing can 
be more dull than their theatre ; that is, than the 
theatre of Toulouse. There seems to be no sym- 
pathy of feeling, no connecting link, between the 
audience and the actors. The laughter of the 
scene produces no correspondent emotion in the 
house. There is no applause, and scarcely any 
attention ; — the spectators sit by in sullen silence. 
But it must be owned that the actors are not the 
best in the world. 

The young students of the University, with little 



1818 .] TOULOUSE — THEATRE. 205 

respect to the well-behaved part of the audience, 
throw bo 2 iquets joi flowers on the stage to their 
favourite actresses. 

6th. The dulness of the theatre has been ex- 
plained to me. The audience is constantly made 
up of the same persons, and they are of course too 
familiar with the pieces and the actors to take 
much interest either in the one or the other. 

In the provincial towns of France every body 
subscribes to the theatre. The spectacle is abso- 
lutely necessary to fill up the evening of a French- 
man ; for neither conviviality nor social domestic 
parties are the fashion of the country. The theatre 
therefore is open every night, without excepting 
Sunday ; on which day, indeed, it is most crowded. 
Economy is the object of many of those who 
attend ; for it is cheaper to subscribe, and pass the 
evening from dinner till bed-time at the play, than 
to burn fire and candle at home. 

The subscription to the military who are quar- 
tered here is one day’s pay per month ; — this was 
a regulation introdued by Napoleon. The stu- 
dents are admitted for eleven francs, and all other 
persons for fifteen francs per month. For this 
you have a free admission to all parts of the house. 

The actors seem to be tolerably well paid, for 



206 TOULOUSE — CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, [dEC. 

a provincial tlieatre. There are none who have 
less than 1,200 francs per annum, and the leading 
actors have as much as 8,000 francs. But then 
the premiers roles in France are saddled with the 
expense of finding their own dresses. 

23d. Attended the assizes. A prisoner was 
brought up for horse-stealing. The president of 
the court, and three other judges were present, 
dressed in robes of scarlet ; but without any flowing 
horsehair on their heads. The Procureur Gmeral, 
or public accuser on the part of the crown, in 
the same costume, sat at the same table with the 
judges so close to the jury, that he was continually 
communicating with them in an under tone, and 
even during the defence, he from time to time 
suggested something aside to them, as it seemed, 
to do away the impression of what was urged in 
the prisoner’s favour. The jury consisted of the 
principal inhabitants of Toulouse, and of the pro- 
fessors of the university. The whole court seemed 
to consider themselves as pitted against the poor 
devil at the bar. The president acted throughout 
as counsel against him ; and even his manner, in 
the frequent cross-examination to which he made 
the prisoner submit, was what in England would 
be called unfeeling, and indecent. Though the 



1818 .] TOULOUSE — CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. 207 

charge involved so serious a punishment, the 
judges and Monsieur le Procureur seemed to 
think it a very facetious circumstance, and laughed 
heartily — when the culprit aided his own convic- 
tion by some ill-considered answer. 

Even the jury and the spectators seemed to be 
without any feelings of sympathy for the accused, 
and the address of his counsel was not listened to 
with a decent attention by any body ; — though it 
ought to be added in their excuse, that the address 
was a villanously stupid one. Still it was impos- 
sible not to be shocked at the apparent want 
of fair play in the whole procedure. 

The spirit of equality, which pervades every 
thing in France since the revolution, seems to have 
found its way into the courts of justice in some 
of their observances; and in these instances at 
least, we cannot condemn its influence. The 
prisoner and the witnesses are accommodated with 
seats, not as matter of favour, but as matter of 
right ; and the witnesses give their evidence sit- 
ting. This is surely nothing more than just ; it is 
a sufficient evil that a man, without any fault of 
his own, should be liable to the inconvenience of 
attending as a witness, without being subjected to 
the additional punishment of standing up in a 



208 TOULOUSE — CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. [dEC. 

witness-box, during an examination of as many 
hours as it may please the counsel to inflict upon 
him. 

The witness is not sworn upon the Bible ; but 
he holds up his hand, and to the charge of the 
president — Vous jurez, sans haine, et sans crainte, 
de dire la verite, toute la verite, et rien que la 
verite — he answers — Je le jure. 

No evidence was taken down ; and the summing 
up of the judge was only a recapitulation of the 
proofs against the prisoner. 

The jury retire to deliberate, and bring in their 
verdict in writing. 

The prisoner was found guilty, and sentenced 
to five years’ imprisonment. 

29th. Assizes again. — A very interesting trial 
of a man for shooting at another, with an intent 
to kill him. Before the commencement of a trial 
the names of the witnesses are called over ; and 
they are then sent out of court, that one may not 
hear the evidence of the other. The President 
opened the case to the jury. The proof was 
defective; at least, it was a very nice case as 
to the identity of the man; — and yet one of 
the questions of the Procureur General to the 
prisoner, in a cross-examination in aid of the 



1818.1 TOULOUSE CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. 209 

proof against him, was — Are you possessed of a 
gun? ! ! ! No evidence was taken down. When 
the evidence closed, the Procureur General spoke 
in support of the prosecution; the prisoner’s 
counsel then spoke in his defence, and lastly the 
President summed up, remarking, in this instance, 
upon what had been advanced on both sides ; but 
still it was the speech of an advocate against the 
prisoner, in which character the French judge 
seems to consider himself. In the course of this 
trial, the President examined the witnesses for the 
prosecution, as to the character of the prisoner, 
in this sort of way : — 

“ Do you know any thing of the prisoner’s cha- 
racter ?” 

“ Have you ever heard any thing against 
him?” 

“ Do you think it likely from what you know of 
him, that he would commit the crime with which 
he is charged?” 

In another trial, the judge, in his opening of 
the case, in order to influence the jury against the 
prisoner, commenced his speech by telling them — 
that the same culprit had very lately appeared at 
the bar, and had been acquitted by the jury on 
the score of his youth, as he was only one day 

VOL. II. 



p 



210 TOULOUSE— CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. [dEC. 

beyond the age which made him liable to legal 
penalty ; and that, in addition to this lenity, the 
jury had made a subscription for him in order 
that he might have something with which to begin 
the world again. This was the opening statement 
of the judge, unsupported by a tittle of evidence. 

So much for the criminal jurisprudence of the 
French ; of the very first principles of which they 
seem to be utterly ignorant. 

The golden maxim of the English law, which 
presumes that every man is innocent till it has 
been proved that he is guilty, and which shields 
the accused from the obligation of replying to 
any question lest he should criminate himself, has 
no influence in their criminal procedure. The 
prisoner, though not absolutely stretched upon the 
rack, is subjected to the terrible screw of cross- 
examination ; and a most powerful engine it is for 
extracting the truth. But it may sometimes con- 
found the innocent, as well as convict the guilty. 
If indeed a prisoner be really innocent, and if he 
have coolness and good sense enough to adhere 
strictly to the truth, he may have nothing to fear 
from the legal inquisition of the French — which 
is certainly well adapted for unravelling the in- 
tricacies of a complicated case. But as it is surely 



1818 .] TOULOUSE— CRIMINAL PROCEDURE. 211 

better that many guilty should escape rather than 
one innocent man should suffer, the spirit of the 
Enghsh sytem is infinitely preferable, in spite 
of the facilities it affords to the clever rascal of 
escaping from justice. 



CHAPTER XV. 



New Year’s Day — Party Spirit — Mass for Louis XVI. — 
Missionaries — Law of Elections — Profession of a Novice — 
Racine — French Drama — Departure from Toulouse. 

January 1st, 1819. The weather for the last 
ten days has been bitterly cold ; the thermometer 
has been below the freezing point, with snow, and 
sleet, and fog. This is a day of great bustle in 
France. All the equipages in. Toulouse are rattling 
about, leaving cards of congratulation; for it would 
be a breach of politeness amongst acquaintance not 
to exchange visits on this day. — New year’s gifts 
seem more in vogue in France than in England. 

16th. The agitation of the public mind, pro- 
duced by the late reports of changes in the mi- 
nistry, seems at last to be tranquillized by the ap- 
pointment of M. de Cazes and his friends. The 
heat and irritation produced here by the rumour 
of the appointment of an ultra-royalist ministry, 
which was believed for four-and-twenty-hours, was 
excessive. The ultra-royalist party awaited the 
arrival of the next courier with the most intense 



TOULOUSE — PARTY SPIRIT. 



21S 



1819.] 



anxiety ; and if it had brought a confirmation of 
their hopes, there is no saying what outrages and 
excesses might not have been committed. The 
ultra-royalist party in the south of France is cha- 
racterized by the spirit which massacred the pro- 
testants at Nismes ; the green cockade is its ensign, 
and this party is more royalist than the king him- 
self ; who is regarded by them as an apostate from 
the old principles of the ancient regime. These 
then say, as the friends of our second Charles said, 
that Louis has interpreted the oztdli and pardon 
of his brother’s dying injunctions, into an act of 
amnesty to his enemies, and an act of oblivion of 
his friends. On the other hand, the anxiety of 
those who have benefited by the Revolution — 
that is, the great mass of the people — was equally 
evident; for they are taught to regard the appoint- 
ment of an ultra-royalist ministry, as synonymous 
with a re-establishment of the tithes of the clergy, 
and the feudal rights of the seigneur, and a re- 
sumption of all the property which has been pur- 
chased under edicts of confiscation. 

This last is the tenderest point of all ; and it is 
certainly a hard case, that a man who was obliged 
either to fly his country or lose his head, should 
upon his return find his estate in the possession of 



214 



TOULOUSE — prefect’s BALL. [jAN. 

one of his own servants, who perhaps purchased 
it for almost nothing during the troubles of the 
Revolution. But this, it is to be feared, is one of 
those instances of injustice, which, by being com- 
mitted and defended by numbers, is placed beyond 
the reach of punishment ; for it is impossible to 
“ indict a whole nation.” The sentence of Fiat 
justitia would be accompanied with a popular 
convulsion, equivalent to the mat coelum of the 
original maxim ; which, however true in morals, 
will not always hold good in politics, of which ex- 
pediency is the basis ; and in which, I believe, we 
must be contented with what is practicable when 
we cannot obtain what is desirable. 

18th. Fe Prtfefs ball. The Prefect, who is 
considered, like our Lord Lieutenant, as the re- 
presentative of the sovereign in the department 
over which he presides, keeps up a certain state, 
and amongst other entertainments gives a ball 
every Monday. The ball was but a shabby busi- 
ness ; — three fiddlers, and no supper. Cotillions 
and quadrilles are so soon over, and the ladies are 
pledged so many deep, that every French beau is 
armed with his pencil and tablets to record his 
engagements, which he claims by presenting his 
partner with a bouquet of flowers. There is a 



215 



1819.] TOULOUSE — MASS FOR LOUIS XVI. 

very striking contrast between the fashion of the 
Englisli and French ladies’ dress, in disposing the 
drapery of the neck; and the advantage is for 
once so much on the side of the latter, in decorum 
and propriety, that I am surprised our country- 
women are not ashamed into an imitation of it. 

21st. Solemn service at the cathedral for the 
repose of the soul of Louis XVI. — The Prefect 
and the municipality, and the whole body of the 
professors of the university, attended this mourn- 
ing ceremonial in grand costume. The church 
was hung with black, and the funeral anthem was 
beautiful. 

The king’s will was read from the pulpit ; but, 
as far as it is possible to judge of the tone and 
sentiment of a public assembly, it did not appear 
to me that the impression produced upon the multi- 
tude was such as the authors of the ceremony must 
have contemplated. It might have been different 
at ihe^rst celebration of the anniversary of his 
murder ; and perhaps it would have been better to 
have limited the mourning to one single occasion ; 
for such feelings must in their nature be transient, 
and in time pass away altogether. What, for in- 
stance, can be more ridiculous than the pretended 
mournful observance of the 30th of January in 



216 TOULOUSE — THEATRE. [jAN. 

England? By the way, it is rather a singular 
coincidence that January was the month fatal alike 
to Louis and Charles, as May was the common 
month of the restoration of their successors ; — it 
will be for the Comte d’ Artois to take care that 
the parallel between the families, does not continue 
further. 

22d, In the evening to the theatre. The play 
was Eidouard en Ecosse ; founded on the adven- 
tures of the Pretender in England, the work of M. 
Duval, who is fond of dramatising English story. 
The part of Charles Edward was admirably played 
by Beauchamp. His face and appearance, when 
he first comes in, pale and worn out with fatigue, 
presented a striking resemblance of Napoleon. 
The political allusions with which the play abounds, 
were eagerly seized throughout, and applied to 
the Ex-Emperor. — “ Je nai fait que des ingrats’' 
was long and loudly applauded. In the last act 
of the play the air of “ God save the King” was 
incidentally introduced ; which afforded the au- 
dience an opportunity of manifesting their feeling 
towards England, which they did not neglect — 
and an universal hiss broke out. A pantomime 
followed, but a very faint imitation of the inimita- 
ble entertainment which is called by that name in 



1819.] TOULOUSE — MISSIONARIES. 217 

England. The first dancer is called Harlequin, 
without his wand or his tricks ; the first female 
dancer is Columbine ; and the unfortunate Panta- 
loon, in addition to his own part, is Clown also ; 
so that besides the kicks on the breeches which he 
receives in quality of the first character, he has 
also to endure the slaps of the face which fall to 
the lot of the second. His mock dance was ex- 
cellent ; and his animated sack, for he jumps into 
a sack and displays wonderful locomotive powers 
therein, was worthy of Grimaldi himself. 

February 1st. It is a subject of great complaint, 
that the time of the carnival should have been 
selected by the missionaries, who have lately made 
their appearance at Toulouse, for the period of 
their visit ; as their arrival and preaching have 
cast a gloom over the usual festivities of this season 
of the year. There is a sort of mystery in the 
institution and appointment of these peripatetic 
preachers, who traverse France from one end to 
the other, as if there were no local clergy to pro- 
vide for the religious instruction of their flocks. 
They preach twice a day, at the principal churches 
in the town ; and in order that this may not inter- 
fere with the labouring pursuits of the lower classes, 
the morning hour is as early as five, and the even- 



5218 TOULOUSE — MISSIONARIES. [fER. 

ing as late as six o’clock. There seems to be a 
great craving after religion at present, as if there 
were a re-action after the long reign of infidelity 
during the K evolution. The churches arc fillcHl 
long before the service begins, and the receipts 
at the rate of three sous a chair will amount to a 
considerable siim, if the zcid of the congregations 
should continue. 

The missionaries are represented in the most 
opposite colours, by the two parties of the state ; 
if you listen to the royalists, they work nothing 
but good, mid only excite the jealousy of the op- 
posite party, because it is feared, that they will 
restore the tone of the public mind, and bring 
back the people to “ fear God and honour the 
king while the liberal party represent them as 
the preachers of fanaticism, and the promoters of 
domestic dissension. For myself I must say, that 
I have attended the missionary who preaches at 
the cathedral, and have heard the best and purest 
precepts of Christianity, enforced by very extra- 
ordinary eloquence ; but a friend has told me that 
he heard at one of the minor churches, a sermon 
on the doctrine of transubstmitiation, in which the 
missionary preacher related the following story in 
confirmation of his doctrine. “ There was a wo- 



219 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — MISSIONARIES. 

man,” said he, “ who being in want of a decent 
attire to go to communion, went to a Jew to hire 
a dress ; and the Jew would only consent to let it, 
upon condition that she would bring him back a 
piece of the consecrated wafer. After much diffi- 
culty, his terms were granted. The Jew, as soon 
as he had got possession of the wafer, trampled it 
under his feet; when, to his great surprise, he 
perceived drops of blood to issue from it. Asto- 
nished at this, he put it into a saucepan, and boiled 
it upon the fire ; — when the surface of the water 
became covered with fat. This second miracle so 
wrought upon him, that he was convinced and 
converted, and forthwith became a Christian.” If 
such is the mode of expounding the mysteries of 
Christianity, in the nineteenth century, it is no 
wonder that the enlightened part of the nation 
condemn missions, and refuse to hsten to mis- 
sionaries. 

5th. In the evening to the theatre. M. Huet 
from the Opera Comique of Paris drew a full 
house. He played Adol/phe^ and Jean de Paris, in 
the originals, from which Matrimony and John of 
Paris have been translated ; but I thought him 
very tame and insipid after the delightfully spirited 
performance of Elliston in the same parts ; — who 



220 TOULOUSE — LAW OF ELECTIONS. [MARCH, 

is SO happy in the combination of heart and 
feeling, with vivacity and whim ; and inimitable 
in the management of dry humour and playful 
raillery. 

10th. The French seem to carry politics far- 
ther even than ourselves. Who ever heard in 
England of inquiring the politics of an actor ? Yet 
here, the arrival 'of M. Huet, who it seems is re- 
cognized as a staunch royalist, has been sufficient 
to throw the town of Nismes into a state of agita- 
tion. The royalist party made a point of attend- 
ing the theatre to support their champion ; in the 
same party spirit which had been shown hy the 
opposite faction, upon a late visit of Talma ; whose 
intimate friendship with the Ex-Emperor is well 
known. A spark is sufficient to kindle the flame 
of civil war between parties composed of such in- 
flammable material's, and nothing but the prudence 
of the police prevented an explosion. 

March 16th. The d'etat of creating fifty 
new peers has at last quieted the apprehension 
and anxiety, which had been occasioned by the 
success of the Marquis Barthelemy’s motion in 
the Chamber of Peers. The object of the motion 
was to consider the propriety of altering the law 
of elections ; and it was carried by a majority of 



221 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — LAW OF ELECTIONS. 

thirty-four voices against the ministry. This new 
creation of peers, which amounts almost to a re- 
volution in the government, ought to convince all 
parties of the king’s sincerity and good faith ; and. 
of his determination to oppose by any means the 
over-heated zeal of his own adherents. The friends 
of M. Barthelemy affect to consider the public 
alarm as unfounded and unreasonable, since his 
motion was confined to a mere consideration of 
the propriety of making an alteration in the law. 
But it is surely not surprising that a people just 
entering upon the enjoyment of political privileges, 
should be tremblingly alive to any attempt to 
tamper with a law which they are taught to con- 
sider as the great security of their rights. How 
for example would the king feel, if a member of 
the Chamber of Deputies were to succeed in a 
motion for considering the propriety of making 
some alteration in the settlement of the crown ? 
There are certain fundamental points in all con- 
stitutions, which ought not, and cannot be made 
the subjects of debate, without disturbing the 
stability of the whole edifice. 

It is only necessary to consider what the French 
have gained by the Revolution, to sympathize 
with the alarm excited by any measure that seems 



TOULOUSE — FRENCH REVOLUTION. [mARCH^ 

to indicate a disposition to return to the principles 
of the ancient government. 

Liberty and equality was a cry peculiarly cal- 
culated to produce an effect in France ; and how- 
ever it might have been afterwards abused, its 
original import meant a liberation from the in- 
tolerable grievances of feudal oppression, and an 
abolition of the injurious privileges of the nobles ; 
— who not only possessed an exclusive claim to all 
the honours and emoluments of the army and the 
church, but were also exempt from taxation ; and, 
even in the article justice, were placed above the 
level of their inferiors ; for, there was one tribunal 
and one measure of justice for the high, and an- 
other for the low. 

The direct power of the monarch was the least 
evil of which the French had to complain, and the 
rule of a single despot, in the person of Napoleon, 
must have seemed light to those, who remembered 
all the grievances of the ancien regime; — namely, 
the partial and oppressive imposts of the taille and 
the corvee ; and the ca^itaineries, by which a sort 
of free-warren was conferred over the lands of 
others, taking away the rights of the proprietors 
themselves, and vesting the game of a whole 
district — with the power of 'preserving deer and 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — FRENCH REVOLUTION. 223 

wild boars — in any single Nimrod whom the king 
might appoint. 

Last, and worst of all, were the feudal claims, 
and oppressive expedients — for an account of 
which see Arthur Young — by which the Seigneur 
might extort money from his vassals. But these 
and all the other sufferings of the people seem to 
be forgotten by all but themselves ; and nothing 
is now remembered of the French Revolution, 
but the crimes and excesses by which the cause 
of liberty was disgraced. 

This Revolution teaches indeed an awful lesson. 
But while we learn from it the dangers of popular 
excess, and the impossibihty of effecting a bene- 
ficial reform, by the agency of the mob ; we shall 
derive but little profit from it, if it do not also 
teach us the necessity of accommodating the in- 
stitutions of government to the progress of in- 
formation, so that they may be always kept in 
unison with public opinion. 

If such had been the conduct of the French 
government, w’e should never have heard of the 
French Revolution. The rulers who refuse to 
make those alterations which the progress of the 
age demands, seem to act as imprudently as the 
debtor who neglects to pay the interest of his debt. 



224f TOULOUSE — CONVENT. [MARCH, 

It is true he may delay paying any thing for a 
certain time, but in the mean time the arrears go 
on accumulating at compound interest, and when 
the day of reckoning does come, as come it must 
sooner or later, it comes with a vengeance, and 
brings ruin along with it. Those who have the 
direction of the machine of government would do 
well to watch the- signs of the times, and by a 
regular payment of the claims of society, main- 
tain a constant good understanding between debtor 
and creditor; — for this is the sort of relation in 
which the government and the people seem to 
stand towards each ather. 

25th. The Annunciation. Attended the cere- 
mony of professing a novice, in the chapel of the 
Benedictine Convent. The victim was a young 
and pretty girl, who had been on the point of 
marriage, for which the preparations had been 
made, and the day fixed. The destined bride 
however suddenly changed her mind, without any 
assignable reason ; and, in spite of the entreaties 
of her friends, resolved to renounce the world ; 
and, according to the French phrase, epouser le 
bon Dieu. She was arrayed in a superb dress of 
satin, with a profusion of lace, and wore a wreath 
of flowers upon her head. 



1819 .] TOULOUSE— PROFESSION OF A NOVICE. 225 

The service was long and tedious. After re- 
ceiving the communion, and hearing a sermon 
particularly addressed to her, which was dull and 
unfeeling beyond belief, the ceremony began. She 
was asked in the face of the congregation, whe- 
ther it was from her own sincere and unbiassed 
inclination that she sought the seclusion of a con- 
vent ; and having answered in the affirmative, the 
cierge and crucijix were delivered to her. She 
was then led out of the chapel by her two bride- 
maids, and re-appeared within the grate of the 
convent. Here her hair was cut off ; and quitting 
her worldly dress and worldly ornaments, she was 
invested with the coarse uniform of the order to 
which she was to belong. The novice then gave 
the kiss of peace all round to the sisters of the 
convent, and the ceremony concluded. At the 
expiration of a year, she repeats her vows, and 
takes the black veil ; it is then that the convent 
becomes her tomb ; and being considered as dead 
to the world, she is wrapped in a black shroud, 
and the funeral service is performed over her.- 
The father of the novice attended the ceremony, 
and seemed to be overwhelmed with affliction. It 
was a melancholy scene ; but less affecting than 
it would have been, if the profession of vows were 

VOL. II. Q 



226 TOULOUSE — MISSIONARIES, [mARCII 

now, as in former times, an irrevocable sentence 
of perpetual seclusion. This is no longer the case ; 
for as the law at present stands, no vows are 
binding for more than a year; so that if a nun, 
availing herself of the privilege of her sex, should 
think fit to change her mind, she may have her 
cage-door opened, and return to the world. 

27th. There was an intention of concludinof 
the mission to Toulouse by a grand ceremony 
and procession ; in which the missionaries were to 
walk barefoot, and plant a cross in one of the 
squares of the town ; but it has been prevented 
by the interference of the police, and postponed 
sine die. It is difficult to form a judgment of the 
general effects of these missions from the opposite 
representations of their friends and enemies. The 
only fact, that has come under my own knowledge, 
speaks in their favour. As we were sitting at 
dinner one day, the host of pension was called 
out to speak to a young woman, who desired par- 
ticularly to see him alone. Upon his return, he 
recounted his interview to us. It seems that the 
woman had formerly lived in his service, and the 
object of her visit was to confess to him sundry 
petty acts of theft, and to make him restitution of 
their amount. This, she said, she was led to do 



1819.] TOULOUSE — RACINE. 227 

from the representations of one of the missionaries, 
to whom she had confessed, and who had con- 
vinced her that repentance and absolution were of 
no avail, unless founded upon sincere resolutions 
of amendment ; and that the best pledge of future 
good conduct would be the atonement and re- 
paration of past sins, as far as it could be done. 
My kind-hearted host forgave his contrite do- 
mestic, and she had all the merit of good intention, 
without making any pecuniary sacrifice. 

30th. Finished a course of Racine. The de- 
lineation of female characters seems to be his forte. 
Phedre, Hermione, Agrippine, and Clytemnestre, 
are, I think, master-pieces in their way. All the 
faults of Racine must be attributed to the taste of 
his age and nation ; and, considering the tight 
stays in which the tragic muse is confined upon 
the French stage, Racine has done wonders. His 
heroes, to be sure, whether taken from Greek or 
Roman story, are all Frenchmen. This is the 
common fault of all the French tragic writers ; 
and it is exquisitely ridiculed by Grimm. “ Le 
celebre Hogarth, connu par le genie et I’esprit de 
ses compositions, a ecrit un ouvrage sur le beau, 
rempli d’idees extraordinaires. On y voit entre 
. autres une estampe ou un maitre de danse Fran- 

Q 2 



228 TOULOUSE — RACINE. [MARCH, 

§ais est vIs-a-vis la belle statue d’Antinous ; il s’oc- 
cupe a lui relever la tete, a lui efFacer les epaules, 
a lui placer les bras etles jambes, a la transformer, 
en un mot, en petit maitre 61egant et agreable : 
cette satire est aussi fine qu’originale. Je doute 
cependant que notre celebre Marcel efit touch6 a 
la contenance d’Antinous ; mais mettez a la place 
d’Antinous la statue de Melpomene I’Athenienne, 
et nommez les maitres de danse Corneille et Ra- 
cine, et le symbole ne s’^cartera pas trop de la 
verite.” 

His heroines are less national, the reason of 
which perhaps may be, that there is less national 
distinction amongst women, who have, as Pope 
has said, “ no characters at all a remark, which, 
though Pope meant it as a satire, needs not I think 
olFend the sex; on the contrary, it is perhaps 
the highest merit in a woman, that she is without 
those strongly marked peculiarities which con- 
stitute what is called character in man ; — for in 
her, to be prominent is to be offensive ; and her 
most engaging qualities are of that unobtrusive 
kind, which belong rather to the sex than to the 
individual. 

Racine’s women are the women of high life. 
We must not look for the charming effusions of 



229 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. 

natural feeling which Shakspeare has given, in 
Juliet, Imogen, Cordelia, and the divine Desde- 
mona. Such characters as these the French poet 
had not the head to conceive ; nor, if he had, 
would a French audience have the heart to feel 
their beauty; but Racine Jlias given most powerful 
and affecting delineations of the frailties and pas- 
sions of the factitious beings amongst whom his 
scene is laid. It is to the distresses of such beings 
that the sympathy of a French audience seems 
confined. It would appear as if there were only 
a royal road to their hearts, for the idea of a tra- 
gtdie bourgeoise is to them ridiculous ; and not 
satisfied with confining tragedy to the great, they 
have also prescribed such rigorous rules of bien- 
stance, that all the mighty play of the passions, 
which form the elements of tragedy, is limited in 
their expression by the arbitrary laws of poetic 
diction, and the strict modes of politeness, as they 
happened to exist in the time of Louis XIV. 

Grimm in his Correspondence has pointed out 
with great discrimination the defects of French 
tragedy ; but a few sentences of Rousseau com- 
prehend the substance of all that can be said on 
the subject. 



230 TOULOUSE FRENCH DRAMA. [mARCII, 

“ Communement tout se passe en beaux dia- 
logues, bien agences, bien ronflans, ou Ton voit 
d’abord que le premier soin de chaque inter] o- 
cuteur, est toujours celui de briller. Presque tout 
s’enonce en maximes generales. Quelque agites 
qu’ils puissent etre, ils songent toujours plus au 
public qu’a eux-m^mes. 

n y a encore une certaine dignite manieree 
dans le geste et dans le propos, qui ne permet 
jamais a la passion de parler exactement son lan- 
gage, ni a I’auteur de revetir son personnage, et 
de se transporter au lieu de la scene.” 

. We English contend that Shakspeare is the re- 
verse of all this ; that his plays, instead of being 
poetical descriptions, are genuine expressions of 
the passions ; that his characters do not talk like 
poetSj but like men; that he has the faculty which 
Rousseau says the French poets want ; and that 
he does, to use Schlegel’s illustration, after the 
manner of a ventriloquist, transport his imagina- 
tion out of himself, and successively animate every 
personage of his scene ; that his characters speak 
in the very language in which their living proto- 
types might be supposed to have spoken; so that 
in fact it appears as if he had stood by an eye- 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. 231 

witness of the scenes he describes, and had taken 
down in writing what actually passed between the 
parties ; that instead of the cold generalities which 
are bandied about by the “ intellectual gladiators” 
of the French stage, there is an individuality in 
Shakspeare’s characters which gives to his scenes 
almost the etFect of reality, and makes us regard 
the actors in them rather as real personages than 
as the mere fictions of his imagination. 

It is thus that we praise Shakspeare, — and for 
the most part justly ; though perhaps we may over 
do it a little. If the French have too much bien- 
seance, Shakspeare had too little ; and it may be 
doubted -whether Johnson was not right when he 
boldly said, that no one of his plays, if now pro- 
duced as the work of a living author, would be 
heard to a conclusion ; but, his faults are as 
“dew drops on the lion’s mane,” and maybe easily 
shaken off. 

Again ; — when we challenge for him so peremp- 
torily and exclusively the claim of the poet of na- 
ture ; — is he always natural ? Does he never make 
his characters speak rather like poets, than like 
men ? 

The language of highly-excited passion will 



232 TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. [mARCH, 

often rise into poetry ; and I will not cpiestion the 
propriety of the figurative imagery in which he 
delights to clothe the effusions of grief and de- 
spair. But, to give one instance out of many, let 
us turn to the dagger scene of Macbeth. The 
air-drawn dagger is a grand conception, and the 
execution is a mighty proof of the genius of Shak- 
speare. The scene is awfully sublime, — yet, 
verging as it does on the border of extravagance, 
in any other hands it would probably have been 
ridiculous ; but, what shall we say to the descrip- 
tion of night, which follows ? As a Poet's descrip- 
tion of night, admirably adapted to the circum- 
stances of the scene, it is excellent, and in a 
descriptive poem it would be strictly in place ; but, 
what is the condition of Macbeth’s mind ? 

Is it natural that his imagination should be at 
leisure to furnish the terrible accompaniments of 
a murderer’s night, which are there enumerated 
with a somewhat laboured detail ? To show how 
a Frenchman’s mind is impressed by Shakspeare, 
let me record the sentiments of my friend Mons. 
B. C., to whom I gave this scene to read aloud, 
as a sample of Shakspeare ’s best manner. He 
read the dagger speech with great admiration. 



23S 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. 

and though a little shocked at the coarseness 
of Lady Macbeth’s language while she is waiting 
for the re-appearance of her husband, he went on 
very well till he came to, 

“ I heard the Owl scream and the Cricket cry.” — 

The cricket was too much for his risible nerves ; 
— here he threw down the book, and fairly laughed 
out. He considered the introduction of so ignoble 
an image, as a high misdemeanour against the 
gorgeous dignity of tragedy, to say nothing of 
the absurdity of allowing Lady Macbeth to have 
leisure to listen to it. What would he have said 
to “ noi a mouse stirring The whole scene that 
follows, which I have always thought at once so 
natural and so terrible, he considered as utterly 
out of nature, and childishly ridiculous. 

Figurez-vous, said he, an ambitious chieftain, 
who has, under the impulse of that passion, con- 
ceived and perpetrated the murder of his sove- 
reign; yet, — in the very moment of its accom- 
plishment, instead of being engrossed with those 
aspiring thoughts and anticipations natural to his 
situation, he has no better employment than to 
entertain his wife with the conversation and cries 



234 < TOULOUSE — FRENCPI DRAMA. [mARCII, 

of the drunken domestics, who had been disturbed 
■from their sleep by his proceedings. 

‘‘ One cried God bless us ! and Amen ! the other,” 

was to his ears the very acme of the ridiculous. 

Such was the impression made upon an intel- 
ligent Frenchman, who understood English very 
well, by one of the finest scenes in Shakspeare. 
Racine would certainly have managed the whole 
business very differently. It would have been 
much less terrible, but much more polite and well- 
bred ; and Monsieur and Madame Macbeth would 
have rhymed it away through some scores of fine 
verses. Racine however is full of beauties, and, 
though he sinks into insignificance when compared 
w'ith Shakspeare, may perhaps challenge a com- 
parison with any other English tragic writer, 
excepting Otway. 

His knowledge of human nature too is con- 
siderable ; though it is not the knowledge of 
Shakspeare, who was profoundly intimate with 
the heart of man in all its passions and affections, 
as it exists in all times and all countries, and who 
painted with the nicest discrimination all tempers 
and dispositions; — the gay and the joyous — the 



1819.] TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. 235 

generous and the gallant — the serious and the 
sorrowful — the moody and the mad — the drunken 
and the desperate. The knowledge of Racine is 
more like that which has been displayed by Pope, 
and seems to be confined to factitious nature ; but 
this is beautifully and faithfully delineated. His 
distress is often very affecting ; and when the 
heart is not affected, the mind may generally find 
amusement and instruction in the beauty of his 
verses and the force of his reasoning. 

Though we generally begin by preferring Vol- 
taire’s tragedies, the beauties of which are more 
showy, Racine will in the end establish his supe- 
riority. Racine seems to have been fitted for the 
strict rules of the French drama, and he writes 
con amove. Voltaire, who understood English, 
had a taste for something better. Though he 
abuses Shakspeare, he was not above stealing 
from him very copiously ; and then, as Steevens 
wittily remarked, like a midnight thief, he sets fire 
to the house he has robbed, in the hope of pre- 
venting the detection of his guilt. 

There is something in Voltaire’s tragedies which 
seems to show that his genius was embarrassed by 
the cramp and confinement of the French literary 
laws ; of which indeed he himself complains 



23G TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. [mARCH^ 

Je regrettais cette heureuse liber te que vous 
avez d’ecrire vos tragedies en vers non rimes 
though he maintains elsewhere that rhyme is ab- 
solutely necessary to the French verse, and gives, 
by way of example and proof, a very fine passage, 
which, by being stripped of these appendages, 
loses all its pretensions to poetry. If this be so, 
what more severe could be urged in the way of 
sarcasm against French poetry? for in fact it 
amounts to this, — that there is so little of the soul 
and spirit of poetry in their writers, that poetry 
would be converted into prose by Person’s receipt 
of removing the final syllable of each line. 

Voltaire is the last man who ought to have de- 
preciated Shakspeare ; for if his Zaire be superior 
in animation and energy to his other tragedies, the 
superiority will be due to Shakspeare, from whose 
fire he has caught a few sparks. But his thefts 
are not always turned to so good account. He 
sometimes meddles with materials beyond his 
strength. The bow of Ulysses would have been 
of no use to a vulgar thief. The Ghost of Ham- 
let’s Father, under Shakspeare’s management, is 
awful and sublime ; but his counterpart in Semi- 
ramis is almost ridiculous. 

The question of the unities — so differently 



1819 .] TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. 237 

treated in the theatres of the two nations — has 
been nearly set at rest by Johnson in his admirable 
preface to Shakspeare. None will deny the ne- 
cessity of unity of action ; and the unity of time 
cannot obviously admit of much latitude of inter- 
pretation, without violating probability, and de- 
stroying the closeness of imitation, upon which 
much of the merit of a dramatic piece depends. 
The French contend, that their rigid adherence 
to the unity of place rests upon the same ground 
of closeness of imitation ; — but it is evident that 
this is founded upon a mistaken idea of illusion. 

For the fact is, that the imitation is not at all 
closer by the preservation of this unity, — but the 
contrary. For instance, would not the imagination 
of the spectator be more easily reconciled to oc- 
casional shifting of the scene, in the tragedy of 
Cato, than to the monstrous absurdity of bringing 
all sorts of people, on all sorts of errands, to talk 
of love, and treason, in the same public hall? 
The only effect of this practice has been to change 
the drama — from a representation of an action — 
into a series of conversations. The difference, says 
Grimm, between the English and the French stage 
is, that, in England, “ On fait courir le spectateur 



238 TOULOUSE — FRENCH DRAMA. [mARCII, 

aprh les tvhiemens ; in France, ce sontles cvhie- 
mens qui courent aprh les spectateursT In this, as 
in most other instances, the truth will lie some- 
where between the two extremes. Change of 
scene may surely take place without any violation 
of the illusion, if there be no objection on the 
score of time ; — and, with all due deference to Dr. 
Johnson, it is rather the intervention of time, than 
the change of place, that ought to separate one 
act from another; — and this, however small, 
should always make a pause in the drama. 

If there could exist any real doubt of the dra- 
matic superiority of the English muse, what strong 
proof might be adduced from the practice of the 
French actors themselves! Why is it that Talma 
perfers Hamlet and Manlius, to Orestes and 
Ninias, and other characters of the same kind, 
which are confessedly the chef s-d^ oeuvre of the 
French theatre; while Hamlet and Manlius are 
poor imitations of our own Hamlet and Pierre ? 
Is it not that Talma has studied these characters 
in their native language, and contrived to impart 
to the cold copy some portion of the life and spirit 
of the divine originals ? But more of French 
acting hereafter. 



1819.] DEPARTURE FROM TOULOUSE. 239 

31st. Bancal, the woman concerned in the 
murder of Fualdes, was brought before the court 
of assize, to hear her pardon read. When this 
was over, she was exhibited as a spectacle to the 
gentlefolks of the town, French and English. 

She conversed on the subject of the murder, 
and persisted in maintaining the guilt of Yence, 
and Bessiere Veysac, who were lately rescued 
from the hands of justice by a host of perjuries. 

Packing up ; — this is a melancholy part of a 
traveller’s life ; — to arrive and hear no welcome — 
to depart and hear no farewell — or, if he remain 
stationary for a time, to be called away just as he 
is beginning to form new connexions. 

Farewell visits ; — to Dr. Thomas, from whose 
medical skill, and friendly attentions, my health 
has derived the greatest benefit; — and to Mr. 
Kemble, to whom I have been indebted for many 
pleasant evenings of social intercourse. It is 
delightful to see the father of the English stage 
enjoying the evening of life in the tranquillity of 
literary leisure ; a man to whose public exertions 
we have all been indebted for the highest intel- 
lectual gratification ; who, by the charm of his 
art, lias become so identified in our imaginations 



240 DEPARTURE FROM TOULOUSE. [MARCH, 

with the ideal characters of Shakspeare, that 
those who have seen him can scarcely think of 
Macbeth — King J ohn — W olsey — Hotspur — Bru- 
tus — or Coriolanus, without embodying them in 
the form and features of — John Philip Kemble. 



1819 .] 



241 



CHAPTER XVI. 

Voyage down the Garonne — Bourdeaux — Theatre — Talma — 
French Wines — Journey to Paris — Tours — Scenery of the 
Loire — State of Society in France — Law of Inheritance — 
— Orleans — Versailles. 

April 1st. Voyage down the Garonne to Bour- 
deaux.: — The duration of this voyage depends 
entirely upon the state of the river. In flood time 
it may be done in two days ; but the ordinary time 
required is four. There is little in the scenery of 
the banks to demand notice. In so long a course, 
it is impossible that there should not be a few 
picturesque spots, but there are very few. It is 
but a comfortless voyage; there is no regular 
passage-boat, and the only vessels are small flat- 
bottomed barges, without any deck, or other pro- 
tection from the weather, than such a tent as you 
may he able to construct. Again — if the water be 
low, you are constantly liable to get a-ground ; 
and it can never be a matter of certainty where 
you may halt for the night. Still, if the weather is 
fine, it is well enough. There is a sort of mill for 
grinding corn in use on the Garonne, which might 

VOL. II. R 



242 ARRIVAL AT BOURDEAUX. [apR. 

perhaps be introduced with advantage on our own 
rivers. It is a simple wooden structure, contain- 
ing also the miller’s house, built upon a solid flat- 
bottomed boat, which is moored on the stream by 
means of strong iron chains. The streams are 
very rapid, and the Garonne is subject to sudden 
and violent floods ; nevertheless, these mills stand 
their ground; and there is scarcely a stream in 
the river without one between Toulouse and 
Bourdeaux. ' ’ 

There are some fine points of view ; particu- 
larly at the embouchure of the Lot, where you 
command a prospect of the town and chateau of 
Aiguillon ; and again at La Reole, where there is 
an ancient Benedictine convent, of late turned 
into the residence of the Prefect, which, with the 
surrounding scenery, forms a beautiful picture. 
But these points are of rare occurrence. It was 
not till the evening of the fifth day that we ar- 
rived within sight of Bourdeaux. The character 
of the scenery improves as you descend the river, 
and the approach to Bourdeaux is magnificent. I 
doubt whether it be not equal to Lisbon ; the 
river, which is rather an arm of the sea, is nearly 
as broad again as the Thames at London. It takes 
a bend at this point, and the town and the quays 



BOURDEAUX. 



243 



1819.] 

form a splendid crescent on the left bank, the 
whole circuit of which is taken in at one coup 
cTceil, while the opposite bank is rich with woods, 
and vineyards, and villas. The piers of a stone 
bridge are finished ; and the superstructure will 
soon be completed, which will form a magnificent 
feature in the prospect. The execution of this 
project, the possibility of which was long con- 
tested, is a splendid proof of the genius and 
ability of the architect. 

Such is the approach to Bourdeaux. The town 
itself will be by far the handsomest town in France, 
if the new buildings in the faubourg of Chartron 
are carried on upon the scale which is at present 
designed. The Chapeau-Rouge is already, as far 
as it goes, one of the finest streets in Europe. 
Here is the theatre, the fagade of which is a model 
of architectural beauty; and the bottom of the 
street terminates in the exchange, the quay, the 
river, and the shipping. Vessels of any size can 
come up to Bourdeaux ; a frigate and two brigs 
have been lately built for Ferdinand of Spain, 
and are now fitting out for the grand expedition 
to South America. 

10th. Every thing at Bourdeaux is on a grand 
scale ; the promenades are beautiful, and the public 

R 2 



S44 BOURDEAUX — THEATRE. [aPR. 

buildings are numerous and splendid. The catlie- 
^dral, as is the case with many of the handsomest 
Gothic buildings in France, was the work of the 
English, during the time they occupied this coun- 
try as masters. The price of lodging and pro- 
visions is somewhat dearer here than at Toulouse. 
The ordinary price of d. pension atBourdeaux, in- 
cluding board and lodging, is eight francs per day. 

17th. Attended the theatre — which is splendid. 
The boxes project like hanging balconies, in a 
manner that I have seen no where else, which 
brings out the company as it were in alto relievo^ 
and gives a very pleasing effect. Talma played 
Nero, in the Britannicus of Racine. The part is 
not a very prominent one, but he made the most 
of it. 

His style of acting is more like Kean’s than any 
other of our actors ; that is, he deals in electric 
shocks, which come flashing through the sublimity 
of the storm. His concluding words “ Narcisse / 
— suivez-moi ! ” were given with tremendous effect. 
His voice is magnificent, though perhaps none of 
his cadences are superior to the quiet low tones of 
Kean, when he is in his saddest mood, as in parts 
of Othello and Hamlet. Upon the whole, I was 
much delighted. He is a great actor — in spite of 



BOURDEAUX — TALMA. 



245 



1819 .] 



the French tragedy. He does all he can to bring 
it down to nature, and it is a proof of the charm 
of nature, to witness the effect which his delivery 
of the text produces, relieved as it is by occasional 
touches of nature and feeling, when compared 
with the tedious and tiresome uniformity of that 
declamatory recitative, which is the general prac- 
tice of the French stage. But great taste and 
discretion are necessary in the introduction and 
management of this familiar tone, which certainly 
may be carried too far — for nothing is worse than 
the affectation of being natural. Hear Voltaire 
on this subject: — “On s’est pique de reciter des 
vers comme de la prose ; on n’a pas considere 
qu’unlangage au-dessus du langage ordinaire, doit 
etre debite d’un ton au-dessus du ton familier.” 
18 th. Saw Talma again, in Oreste, in the An- 
dromaqne of Racine. He has in an extraordinary 
manner the faculty of altering his appearance, 
and one could scarcely recognise him as the same 
person who had played Nero, till he spoke ; but 
his voice is not to be mistaken — it is divine, and 
possesses every variety of expression; — his whisper 
is wonderfully impressive. There is something 
unhappy in the contour of his countenance. A 
thick double chin encumbers his physiognomy 



246 BOURDEAUX — TALMA. [aPR. 

and injures its expression, when the features are 
at rest; but when his face is agitated by the tem- 
pest and whirlwind of the passions, or when all 
expression is as it were annihilated, by the wild 
vacancy of despair, the effect is overwhelming. His 
action is overdone to an English taste; the con- 
stant shaking of the arms, and then slapping them 
violently against the thighs, has something ridi- 
culously vehement in it to us ; but those modes of 
expression are different in different countries, and 
it would be prejudice to assume our own as the 
standard of propriety. Still, till you are habituated 
to this gesticulation, it looks like tearing a passion 
to tatters, and has something of the effect of bur- 
lesque. His management of soliloquy is admirable. 
It is just what it ought to be — thinking aloud. 

It is impossible to conceive any thing more 
awfully terrible, than his scene in the fifth act. 
Raving madness is generally disgusting on the 
stage ; shocking the feelings by an exhibition of 
frightful bodily writhings, and nothing more, — 
“ the contortions of the Sibyl without her inspira- 
tion.” But there is a dreadful reality in Talma’s 
fury ; and the ghastly changes which affect his 
features seem to arise from the internal agonies of 
his soul. He made the blood run cold, and one 



BOURDEAUX — TALMA. 



1819 .] 






might have fancied it was indeed Orestes furiis 
agitatus, the victim of divine vengeance, that was 
on the scene. 

Though Talma is very fond of contrast, and 
puts forth his whole strength in particular passages, 
which resemble Kean’s bursts of passion ; yet he 
is also more attentive to the general effect of the 
character than our own actors are. From the 
moment of his entrance he seems to forget that he 
is Talma. No look or motion ever escapes him 
that betrays a consciousness that he is acting to 
an audience. This complete identification with his 
part is the great charm of his style. Nothing 
destroys this identity more, than the appearance 
of any consciousness of the presence of an audi- 
ence, on the part of an actor. Yet on our own 
stage the illusion is dispelled at his very first en- 
trance, by the acknowledgments which custom com- 
pels him to make to the plaudits of the spectators ; 
— a frightful solecism in our theatrical practice, 
which we should do well to reform, from the ex- 
ample of our neighbours. 

24ih. Voyage in the steam-boat to Pavillac, 
ten leagues down the river. The banks are tame 
and uninteresting. At the junction of the Dor- 
dogne and the Garonne, the confluence takes 



BOURDEAUX — FRENCH WINES. 



2iS 



[apr. 



place in such a manner that it is difficult to say 
which river it is that runs into the other ; and 
their magnitude is nearly the same. Hence, it is 
said, arose a great controversy between the par- 
tisans of the Garonne and the Dordogne, which 
of the two should give its name to the united 
stream. This was at last decided by the adoption 
of La Gironde — the name of the territory common 
to both rivers. 

House rent in the neighbourhood ofBourdeaux 
is low enough ; a ready furnished house, contain- 
ing every suitable accommodation for a small 
family, with five acres of vineyard yielding fruit 
enough to make a considerable quantity of wine, 
was offered me to-day for 500 francs per annum ; 
and there was a peasant residing on the estate, 
who for half the produce would have undertaken 
the care and management of the whole. 

It is more difficult to buy claret of the best 
quality at Bourdeaux than in London. The fact 
is, that all the produce of the vineyards is in the 
hands of a few merchants ; and it would scarcely 
answer their purpose to sell the very best quality, 
unadulterated, at any price — necessary as it is to 
them to leaven their whole stock. For the in- 
creasing demand for the wines of Bourdeaux, oc- 



249 



1819.] BOURDEAUX — FRENCH WINES. 

casioned by the growing consumption of Russia 
and the East Indies, augments the proportion of 
inferior wine which is mixed up in the general 
mass. The common wine of the Pays de Medoc 
— whence by the way comes our cherry whose 
name we have corrupted into May Puke — is light, 
and pleasant, and may be bought for about ten- 
pence a bottle ; but it has little resemblance to our 
English claret, which derives its peculiar flavour 
from being seasoned with a mixture of a strong 
wine of Burgundy. 

One of the best wines of the south of France is 
the wine of Cahors, which is rich and strong, and 
well calculated to please the English taste ; but 
unfortunately the system of commerce which we 
have so long acted upon, has transferred the wine 
trade to Portugal, where we buy worse liquor at a 
higher price. “ There are few Englishmen — said 
Hume eighty years ago — who would not think their 
country absolutely ruined, were French wines sold 
in England so cheap and in such abundance, as to 
supplant in some measure all ale and home-brewed 
liquors. But, would we lay aside prejudice, it 
would not be difficult to prove that nothing could 
be more innocent, perhaps advantageous.” The 
misfortune is .that now, when the true principles 



BOURDEAUX — TALMA. 



250 



[may, 



of commerce are generally understood and acknow- 
ledged, it is difficult to introduce them into prac- 
tice, on account of the long establishment of the 
old system of restraints and prohibitions ; the effect 
of which has been well described by Hume — as 
serving no purpose but to check industry, and to 
rob ourselves and our neighbours of the common 
benefits of art and nature. 

May 1st. Talma’s Hamlet is a chef d' oeuvre ; — 
in his hands it is the most affecting picture of filial 
piety that can be imagined. His power of ex- 
pressing grief is beyond every thing I ever wit- 
nessed on the stage, or in real life. As Hamlet, 
there is an appearance of concentrated sorrow 
impressed upon his features and figure, which 
•neveiTeaves him from beginning to end. He is — 
like the Niobe of whom his prototype speaks — 
“ all tears" — to the utter exclusion of that antic 
disposition” which the English Hamlet assumes, 
to the prejudice perhaps of our sympathy with his 
sorrows. The other alterations are chiefly these; 
Ducis makes Ophelie the daughter of Claudius, 
who is not brother to the murdered king, but 
premier prince du sa7ig ; and this certainly 
heightens the emharras of the French Hamlet, who 
is as much in love with Ophelie as the English; — 



1819 .] BOURDEAUX — TALMA. 251 

Immoler Claudius, — punir cet inhumain, 

C’est plonger a sa fille un poignard dans le sein ; 

C’est la tuer moi-meme ! 

The madness and death of Ophelie are also 
avoided. The lovers however quarrel violently ; 
the lady being determined to save her father, and 
Hamlet equally bent upon his destruction. Then 
for Gertrude — she does not marry Claudius; the 
infidelity has preceded the murder of the king, 
and she is thenceforward all penitence and horror. 
The Hamlet of Ducis too is fonder of his mother 
than the Hamlet of Shakspeare ; and the French 
hobgoblin is a much bloodier fellow than the Eng- 
lish ghost : — he insists upon it that Hamlet shall 
not only speak daggers, but use them also ; and his 
bloody commission extends to the punishment of 
both the guilty parties. It is in vain however that 
Hamlet attempts the assassination of his mother — 
his hand and heart fail him ; — ultimately however 
she saves him the trouble, and the Spirit is ap- 
peased and satisfied. The stage effect of the in- 
visible speechless spectre of Ducis — which is seen 
only in the expressive eye of Talma — is certainly 
. superior to the “ too solid flesh” of the “ honest 
. ghost” of Shakspeare. The moment the English 
ghost enters with his “ martial stalk” — the illusion 



252 



BOURDEAUX — TALMA. 



[may, 



is over. But perhaps the finest part of the French 
play is the scene where Hamlet relates to his friend 
Norceste his interview with his father’s spirit ; — 
this is the ne plus ultra of acting. Instead of 
Shakspeare’s expedient of the play “ to catch the 
conscience” of the guilty parties, Hamlet causes 
Norceste to announce to them, as news from Eng- 
land, a similar story of treason and murder, per- 
petrated there* 

Duels makes the conscience of Claudius immove-* 
able ; “ il nest point trouble” exclaims Norceste in 
doubt; “ Non /” replies Hamlet, ‘‘ No?i ! — mats re- 
garde ma mere /” the effect of these words as de- 
livered by Talma was truly astonishing. At the 
end of the play, the hostile approach of Claudius 
is announced to Hamlet, while he. is engaged in a 
most affecting eclaircissement with his mother : he 
starts up, exclaiming — Ltd ! ce monstre ! — quil 
Vienne ! — and then, after a pause, and a long start, 
a la Kean ; — Qiiil vienne ! je V attends ! — nia ven- 
geance est certaine / 

This burst — quit vienne! je V attends! is per- 
haps the most electrifying thing on any stage ; — 
and then the voice of Talma ! — non hominem sonat ! 
There is a supernatural impressiveness about it, 
that affects the soul in the most awful manner. 



1810.] LEAVE BOURDEAX;X FOR PARIS. S53 

•while it can melt in a moment into tones of the 
truest and most touching pathos. Talma stands 
alone upon the French stage, with no rival near 
the throne, at an immeasurable elevation above all 
competitors. It is a common, and I believe in 
general a just notion, that actors are stimulated 
by mutual excellence, and play better for being 
“ acted up to” — as the phrase is. But though 
this may be true of the superior actor in relation 
to the inferior, I doubt whether it be ever true 
vice versa; and it is easy to perceive that the 
powers of the inferior actors are paralyzed as they ^ 
approach the “ intolerable day” which Talma 
sheds around him, and “ ’gin to pale their in- 
effectual fire.” 

In a word. Talma’s Hamlet is “ the thing itself;” 
and may be classed with the Coriolanus of Kemble 
— the Queen Catherine of Siddons — the Othello 
of Kean ; and though last not least — the Sir Per- 
tinax Macsycophant of Cooke. 

5th. Left Bourdeaux in a voiturier’s carriage, 
in which we had not proceeded far before we 
discovered that one of the mules had almost the 
agility of Tickle-Toby’s mare in curvetting with 
her heels, and that our driver was a Provencal 
brute, of the true Marseillois breed ; — much more 
vicious and headstrong than the beast he drove. 



TOURS. 



254 



[may, 



There is little in the route from Bourdeaux to 
Tours, to make one wish to' linger on the way; 
and I had often occasion to wish that I had adopted 
a more rapid conveyance. The public walk at 
Angouleme commands a fine prospect; and the 
view from Poitiers is superb, independently of the 
historical recollections which make it interesting 
to an Englishman. Every town of France seems 
to have its promenade. The public walk at Poi- 
tiers is delightful ; and its situation on a lofty 
height affords facilities, which have not been 
neglected, in laying it out to the best advantage. 

On the sixth day of our journey we made a halt 
at Ormes, in order to see the chateau of M. d’Ar- 
genson. This is the only chateau I have seen in 
France that can bear any comparison with the 
country residence of an English nobleman. It is 
situated on the bank of the Vienne ; and the dis- 
position and laying out of the ground, from the 
back of the house to the river, which is within 
200 yards, is in the true style of English garden- 
ing ; — and I could have almost fancied myself on 
the banks of my own native Wye. 

12th. We this morning reached Tours, chiefly 
remarkable for a very handsome well-built street, 
wdiich is a rarity in France. The view from the 
hill before you arrive at Tours commands the 



TOURS. 



255 



1819 .] 

greater part of the Touraine. The character of 
the scenery is made up of that calm kind of beauty 
consistent with fertility, without any pretensions to 
the grand or the romantic. 

Soon after leaving Tours, our kicking mule had 
nearly played us a jade’s trick. The road lies on 
the bank of the Loire, under a range of rocks on 
one side, and with a shelving steep descending to 
the river on the other ; from which the road is 
protected by a low wall. Our mule, being on the 
side farthest from the river, seemed to think this 
a favourable opportunity for venting its malice ; 
and after a desperate effort, succeeded in forcing 
its companion over the wall. Our situation was 
one of great danger ; for the struggles of the poor 
animal, who remained suspended in the air by 
the harness, nearly dragged carriage and all over 
together. We succeeded however in cutting the’ 
traces, and the beast, thus set free, rolled down 
the steep without suffering any material injury; — 
and here we left our voiturier and his mule to 
settle their affairs as they pleased. W e might have 
had some difficulty in arranging our own affairs 
with him, but for that ready assistance which the 
law affords to every one who wants its aid in 
France. The mayors are invested with powers 
which have a much wider range than those of our 



AMBOISE. 



256 



[may, 



own magistrates ; and in all petty disagreements, 
you may at once summon your adversary, and 
have an immediate and summary decision of the 
matter in dispute. This, to travellers at least, is a 
very great comfort, for to them d, -delay ^ of justice 
would amount to a refusal. 

16th. At Amhoise there is a castle, the principal 
curiosity of which is a tower, by which they say 
the king used to ascend into the castle in his 
carriage. Here are the horns of a stag, eight feet 
long; and there is a joint of the same animal’s neck, 
as large round as a man’s body. This stag, whose 
horns are, if I remember rightly, still larger than 
those in Warwick Castle, is said to have been 
killed in the time of Charles VIII. The chateau 
of Chanteloup ought to be seen, as affording a 
superb specimen of the wretchedness of French 
taste. There is however an artificial rock there, 
which, if it were not crowned with a Chinese 
temple, would be worthy of an English garden. 

•• It is impossible not to be disappointed with the 
boasted scenery of the Loire. The road and the 
river as far as Blois are well enough ; and the 
views are occasionally very striking ; hut after 
you leave Blois, nothing can well be more im- 
interesting. 

- The peasantry too do not realize the pictures 



257 



1819.] SCENERY OF THE LOIRE. 

which the imagination would draw of the “ festive 
choir,” whom Goldsmith describes as having led 

“ With tuneless pipe beside the murm’ring Loire.” 

I have in vain looked for any specimens of female 
beauty amongst the lower classes ; — and indeed, the 
hard labour and exposure to the sun, to which they 
are subject, will sufficiently account for the want 
of symmetry of form, and beauty of complexion, 
so observable in the female peasantry of France. 

Blois is well calculated for an English residence. 
The people are said to be better disposed towards 
us, than in most other parts of France, and it is 
particularly rich in all the productions of the soil. 

The price of a pension, including all the com- 
forts of board and lodging, does not exceed 90 
francs per month. 

This too is a part of France which seems to 
have suffered less than most other places from 
the fury of the Revolution. And this is a great 
consideration; for, whatever political advantages 
France may have derived from the Revolution, it 
will require a long time to repair the havoc and 
confusion which that tremendous explosion has 
made in the strata of society — elevating the lower, 
depressing the higher, and disturbing all, Hie 



VOL. II. 



s 



258 STATE OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE. [mAY, 

axe of equality has levelled every thing in France, 
and to look for a gentleman, is to lose your labour. 
All the distinctions of rank have been cut down, 
like the old trees of the forest, and the new genera- 
tion that have sprung up, like the coppice, are all 
on a level; by which the social scene is as much 
disfigured, as the landscape would be by a similar 
process. You will seek in vain for that high-bred 
polish of manners which has been so much the 
boast, as peculiar to the haut-ton of France. The 
joung men have, generally speaking, a roue, rake- 
helly demeanour; — the officers in the army are 
only to be distinguished by their epaulets; and 
there is throughout society a coarseness of man- 
ners, which savours strongly of sans-culotism. In 
losing the external simagrees of the old school, 
the French have lost the greater part of their 
politeness; for if politeness consist, as Fielding 
has beautifully defined it, in an extension of the 
great rule of Christian conduct to behaviour — so 
as to behave to all as you would they should behave 
to you — the French had never at any time more 
of this true benevolence in trifles than their neigh- 
bours. 

True politeness indeed can only be associated 
\vifh principle and honour ; for it must be founded 



259 



1819 .] STATE OF SOCIETY IN FRANCE. 

as well on self-respect, as on a sense of respect 
for others ; and this can scarcely be expected in a 
country where it has been long a favourite maxim 
that every man has his price, and that every wo- 
man — is no better than she should be. The de- 
cline of morals has indeed been greater than the 
decline of manners; and the whole history of 
France since the Revolution exhibits a lamentable 
picture of the most degrading want of principle. 
The French were formerly distinguished, if by no 
very strict principles of religion, at least, by a 
high sense of honour. But the age of chivalry is 
gone; France is no longer the country of “ high 
thoughts seated in a heart of courtesy;” — and we 
shall in vain seek in the campaigns of the soldiers 
of Napoleon for any portion of that generosity of 
sentiment which animated the knight “ sans peur 
et sans reproche” It is common to hear the con- 
duct of French officers in breaking their parole, 
not only mentioned without censure, but praised 
and applauded — like a successful theft might have 
been in Sparta — as a justifiable and meritorious 
act of dexterity. It is to be hoped that the con- 
tinuance of tranquillity, the progress of education, 
and the revival of religious principles, may restore 
to the moral sense of the French people, that 

s 2 



2G0 FRENCH LAW OF INHERITANCE. [mAY, 

sensibility which has been almost destroyed by 
the long reign of license during the Revolution. 
There are, however, many obstacles that will pre- 
vent the re-organization of the “ Corinthian capital” 
of society in France; which it is desirable should 
exist in all countries — if it consist, as it ought, of 
a class elevated above the vulgar herd, not only 
by the amount of their possessions, but by their 
intellectual and moral superiority. 

One obstacle may be found in the spirit of 
equality, which it would be difficult to eradicate ; 
and which in France is associated with that in- 
dividual vanity which has no respect for high 
rank, or high station. 

Again, there is the law of inheritance ; the effect 
of which is to prevent the establishment of a per- 
manent aristocracy of families, whose hereditary 
weight and influence serve as ballast in keeping 
the vessel of society steady. 

Though a man may do what he pleases with his 
property during his life ; this law limits his power 
of disposing of it after his death. If he have only 
one child, he is allowed the absolute disposal of a 
moiety — the child Inheriting the other as matter 
of right; if he have two children, he can only 
■ dispose of a third ; and if he have more than two. 



261 



1819 .] FRENCH LAW OF INHERITANCE. 

three-fourths of his property must be equally di- 
vided amongst the children, and one-fourth only 
is left to his own disposal ; either to leave to a 
stranger, or to increase the portion of the child of 
his preference. If the father die intestate, the 
whole property is divided equally amongst the 
children. 

The law of general division, if confined to cases 
of intestacy, might, perhaps, be rational enough, 
as far as it is founded in the interests of the many, 
in opposition to the exclusive right of primogeni- 
ture. But any interference with the right of a 
man to dispose of his property at his death — 
excepting so far as the general good of society 
may make it necessary to guard against perpetual 
entails — is manifestly impolitic, as removing one 
of the greatest stimulants of human industry. The 
relations of private hfe, indeed, can never be the 
proper objects of legislative interference. The, 
interests of children may safely be left to the 
natural operation of parental affection; and the 
evil tendency of a law which makes children to a 
great degree independent of their parents, has 
already been very extensively felt in France. 

While such has been the effect of this law upon 
domestic life ; its consequences, in a national point 



262 I’RKNCH LAW OF INIIEKIT ANCE. [mAY, 

of view, will probably be still more pernicious. The 
pooiTaws of England have been well characterized 
by a French writer, as “ la vtrole politique de VAn- 
gleterre;’ but by what single term shall we de- 
signate the complicated evils which may be ex- 
pected to flow from tlie French law of inheritance? 
For while, on the one hand, its natural operation 
will be to produce an excess of population, by the 
equal facilities for marrying which it affords to all 
the members of a family ; it must, at the same 
time, be diminishing the means of support, by its 
constant attacks upon capital, in the continual di- 
vision and sub-division of property. Such a system, 
if permitted to continue, must, in the end, produce 
universal beggary ; for, if we follow it to its natural 
conclusion, every acre in France will finally be 
divided, to the utter extinction of all capital, and 
every Frenchman eventually reduced to the con- 
dition of a pauper. 

Though the morals and manners of the highest 
class of society have suffered much from the Re- 
volution ; though you will occasionally meet in the 
parlour with something that savours of the ser- 
vants’ hall ; you will perhaps meet with more of 
High Life below Stairs in France, than in any 
other country in the world. There is in France 



VERSAILLES. 



263 



1819.] 



an universal quickness of intellect and apprehen- 
sion, and a perfect freedom from that awkward 
embarrassment of manner, which is in England, I 
believe, denominated clownishness. As far there- 
fore as the mere outward air of good breeding 
goes, almost every Frenchman is well-bred; and 
you may enter into conversation with a French 
servant or a French cobler, upon any of the 
topics that are common to the mixed company of 
rational and intelligent people all over the world, 
without any fear of being disgusted by coarseness 
or vulgarity. 

14th. Orleans; — the cathedral is a beautiful 
structure, and the view from the tower will well 
repay the trouble of ascending it ; which cannot 
be said of all such expeditions. A walk of three 
miles will carry you to the source of the Loiret^ 
which is considered an object of curiosity. This 
river rises in a plain ; it is said to be navigable to 
its source, though no boats are to be seen ; and 
they tell you its source is unfathomable. 

15th. We diverged from the road this morning, 
to the left ; and, passing through a very interest- 
ing country, arrived to breakfast at Versailles. On 
the highest ground in the town stands the palace. 
The old front next the town, built by Louis XIII., 



264 



ENTRANCE TO PARIS. 



[may, 



is heavy and ugly. In the courts on this side were 
performed the tragic scenes that disgraced the 5th 
and 6th of October, 1789. The fagade of the 
palace on the garden side is very fine ; but the 
waste of expense in formal alleys, a mob of statues, 
and unmeaning buildings, hurts an English eye. 
We walked to Le petit Trianoriy the favourite re- 
treat of Marie Antoinette. The gardens are a 
tolerable imitation of the English taste, but still 
too artificial. The Tour de MalbrooJc is a foohsh 
thing enough ; — but the cottages are very pretty, 
and one might admire the taste which designed 
them, if they had been intended for the real habita- 
tions of clean and decent peasantry ; — instead of 
retreats in which the queen and her favourites 
might play at shepherds and shepherdesses. 

The approach to Paris from Versailles is ex- 
tremely grand. You come at once upon the Place 
Louis Quinze^ which is the finest spot in Paris, or 
perhaps in any other town. 

Drove immediately to the Hotel de Boston in the 
Rue Vivienne ; an excellent house in every respect. 



1819.] 



265 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Comparison of London with Paris — Catacombs — Chamber of 
Deputies — Theatre Franpais — Louvre — French Women — 
Gaming Tables — Place Vendome — Gobelin Tapestry — 
Deaf and Dumb — French Character— Journey to Dieppe 
— Conclusion. 

May 19th. In comparing Paris with London, 
the latter has, I think, decidedly the advantage 
in general magnificence, and all the attributes of 
a metropolis ; though perhaps the former may 
have the greater number of beaux morceaux in 
proportion to its size. But then, it must he re- 
membered, that Paris is not much more than half 
the size of London. 

Paris has certainly nothing that can he put in 
competition with our squares ; nor are there such 
places for riding and walking as the Park and 
Kensington Gardens. The Thames would be de- 
graded by a comparison with the Seine; and 
Waterloo Bridge is worth all the bridges in Paris 
put together. The Pantheon, — fine building as 
it is, — would not even by a Frenchman be placed 
upon a level with St. Paul’s ; nor can any English- 



PARIS. 



266 



[may, 



man allow Notre Dame to be mentioned in the 
same sentence with Westminster Abbey. Still, 
however, I think we must own that a walk from 
the Boulevards, down the Rue de la Paix, through 
the Place Vendome, to the Place Louis Quinze, 
and so on to the river, proceeding thence along 
the Quai to the Thuileries and the Louvre, would 
present an assemblage of magnificent objects, 
which exceed any thing that London has to show 
within the same compass. 

■ In making a survey of both capitals, one can- 
not help being struck with the distinctive dif- 
ferences of national character, which are so 
strongly marked in the leading features of the one 
and the other. Comfort seems to have presided 
at the building of London, and show at that of 
Paris. A drive through the streets of Paris will 
explain to you at once, that it is the capital of a 
people who have no taste for the privacy of home ; 
but who prefer to live in the glare and glitter of 
public amusements. The houses are of an im- 
mense height, but then no man’s “ house is his 
castle each story has its tenants, and if the 
effect of such wholesale buildings be magnificent, 
it is obtained at a prodigious sacrifice of domestic 
comfort. But, to make comfortable homes is not 
the object in Paris ; on the contrary, it is upon 



PARIS. 



267 - 



1 - 819 .] 

public places that attention and expense are al- 
most exclusively employed ; — and these are made 
as luxurious as possible. The cafts, the restaura^ 
teurs, and the thousand establishments for the 
entertainment and recreation of the public, will 
be found in the highest state of perfection ; and 
it is to enjoy themselves in such places, that the 
French escape from the comfortless retreat of 
their own dwellings. In London we find the re- 
verse of all this. For, though our public buildings 
are in the grandest style of magnificence ; yet, 
perhaps, the most striking feature in London is 
the evident and paramount object of all the vast 
siuns expended in its improvement ; — namely, the 
individual comfort of the inhabitants. Witness the 
paving and lighting the streets ; the admirable 
though invisible works, by means of which water 
is circulated through all the veins of the metro- 
polis ; — works of which Paris is wholly destitute — 
and the spacious laying out of the squares ; which, 
splendid as they are, seem less intended for show, 
than for the health and enjoyment of those that 
live in them. 

If the houses in London are not uniformly so 
high as those in Paris, it is because they are 
adapted for the use of different classes of people j 



S68 



PARIS. 



[may, 

and they rise, according to the rank of their pos- 
sessors, from the humble scale of the Suburbs, to 
the magnificent proportions of Grosvenor-square. 
I can easily believe that a traveller may be more 
struck with the coup d'oeil of Paris, than of Lon- 
don. But he has seen the least striking part of 
London, who has only seen the outside of the 
streets ; — “ there is that within which passeth 
show — for London must be seen in the luxury 
and comfort of its private society, which will fur- 
nish scenes of enjoyment, such as cannot he 
found, I believe, in any other metropolis in the 
world. 

If the two towns however be merely considered 
as scenes of gaiety, as places of holiday recreation, 
it is not surprising that Paris should be almost 
universally preferred by strangers. One may cer- 
tainly say of it, as I believe was said of Seneca’s 
style — abundat dulcibus vitiis — in other words — 
it is a charming place to play the fool in. But, 
whatever superiority it may have over London is 
derived chiefly from its very inferiority of scale 
and grandeur; for this gives it an advantage of 
the same kind with that, which a small theatre has 
over a large one ; inasmuch as the spectacle wdth 
all its details is compressed within a smaller com- 



I’ARIS. 



269 



1819.] 

pass, and brought nearer to the spectator. Thus 
the gardens of the Thuileries are very inferior in 
extent and beauty to those of Kensington ; but 
then the former are in the very heart of Paris ; 
while the latter, for any useful purpose to the ma- 
jority of the inhabitants of London, might as well 
be at York. 

Again — Tivoli is certainly not equal to Vaux- 
hall ; but then you may walk to Tivoli in ten 
minutes from the Palais Royal, see all that is to 
be seen, walk back again, and be in bed before 
midnight, without any of the fuss and trouble at- 
tendant upon an expedition to Vauxhall. Every 
thing, in a word, that Paris contains is come-atahle 
at pleasure ; and if you add, that there is no 
smoke, that a dollar will go as far as a guinea 
does in London, and that it has not, as far as I 
could see, the horrid nests of human vermin which 
are to be found in Wapping and St. Giles’s; you 
will have said nearly all that can be said in its 
favour. 

In the essential points of eating and drinking 
indeed, the Parisians may claim the most unques- 
tionable superiority over us. It is impossible not 
to admit, that cider cannot vie with champagne, 
and that burgundy is better than beer. Vii'e Paris 



270 



PARIS — RESTAURATEURS. 



[may, 



pour qui a de V argent ! says somebody ; but one 
might almost cry, Vine Paris pour qui rien a pas ! 
Witness the culinary affiches with which the walls 
are placarded. 

“ Tabar, Restaurateur: Diner a 30 sols (15f/. 
English) — On a Potage, 3 Plats tres forts, une 
demi-bouteille de bon vin, Pain a discretion, un 
beau dessert, — ou un petit verre de vieille eau-de- 
vie de Cognac. Le tout au choix. Le service se 
fait en beau linge ; argenterie; et porcelaine, &c.” 
If this should be too dear, you are tempted by 
another affiche close by. 

“ Unique dans son genre ! Diner copieux a 22 
sols {\ld. English) par tete, servi en convert et 
bols d’argent, en beau linge blanc. On a potage, 
3 plats au choix, dessert, un carafon d’excellent 
vin. Pain a discretion. On remplace le dessert 
par un petit verre d’eau-de-vie. 

“ Le public est prevenu qu’afin de meriter sa 
^confiance et flatter son gout, il trouvera la carte 
bien detaillee et variee tons les jours, tant en 
volaille, gibier, poisson, que patisserie et dessert.” 
This will suffice to show, that the Parisians 
understand the art of puffing and placarding, at 
least as well as the Londoners. It may be possible, 
Jn London, to get the substance of a dinner at a 



1819.] PARIS — RESTAURATEURS. SYl 

chop-house for as small a sum as two shillings; 
but in a wretched form, and without any of the 
accessories of luxury, or even comfort. In Paris, 
however, you may dine at the Salon Frangais in 
the Palais Royal, in a superb salon, as well fitted 
up, and better lighted, than the Piazza coffee- 
house in Covent-garden, and be served with soup, 
three dishes au choix, bread a discretion, a pint of 
Burgundy, and dessert, all for the sum of eighteen 
pence; — and the waiter makes you a low bow for 
the gratuity of three-halfpence ! 

20th. There is another advantage in Paris, 
which is derived from its inferiority of size ; — a 
walk of half an hour will take you from the centre 
of the town into the country. In London this is 
the work of half-a-day. And when you are once 
clear of the harritres, you are as much in the 
country, and breathe as pure an air, as if you were 
a hundred miles off. This facility of uniting the 
pleasures of town and country makes Paris very 
agreeable. St. Cloud, for instance, is a mere walk, 
and a more romantic scene can scarcely be con- 
ceived. 

The park at St. Cloud during a fete might be 
compared with a scene in Fairy Land. To com- 
pare it with something nearer home; — imagine 



272 PARIS — ST. CLOUD. [maV, 

sevei'Rl thousand people in Windsor Forest — 
though perhaps the wood at St. Cloud may be 
flattered by the comparison — temporary shops 
erected without number on each side of a fine alley 
of trees — and the whole forest animated by people 
amusing themselves in all sorts of ways; — here 
dancing in troops under the shade — there riding 
in round-about machines, with ships attached to 
the extremity of their poles, which sail round and 
round with an undulating motion, like that of a 
vessel under a steady breeze; — here enjoying the 
jokes of Punch and Merry Andrew — and there 
climbing paths that would not ill become the plea- 
sure-ground of an Esquimaux. The whole com- 
bination is enchantingly picturesque, and realizes 
the descriptions that I have read in some foreign 
novels, in which I always thought there was some- 
thing too poetical to be fact ; but the fact is not less 
poetical, if one may so say, than the description. 

The French, though without any taste for the 
romantic in nature, have a happy knack in the 
imitation of it. The gardens of Tivoli, for instance, 
though so inferior to Vauxhall in capabilities, are 
rendered much more rural and romantic ; and this 
is extraordinary enough, considering the different 
tastes of the two nations. Instead of taking your 



PARIS — CATACOMBS. 



27S 



1819.] 

refreshment in boxes, as at Vauxhall, you here 
take it under the trees, or in arbours ; the walks 
too are delightfully solitary, and the whole scheme 
of the entertainments is got up in a better taste 
than the fetes champUres on our side of the water. 

21st. Visit to the Catacombs. Our descent 
into these mansions of the dead was less impressive 
than it might have been, owing to the association 
of numbers. 

The elFect which such a scene is calculated to 
produce upon the imagination is almost entirely 
destroyed by the din and distraction of a large 
party. As, however, it requires some time to ex- 
plore these Cimmerian regions, the Custos limits 
his labours to a single exhibition per day; — so 
that all those who wish to accompany him assem- 
ble at the hour appointed for opening the door, 
and proceed together. 

Armed with tapers, we descended a flight of 
steps to the depth of about a hundred feet below 
the surface, and entered one of the low passages 
leading to the catacombs. These vaults are the 
work of ages, having been formed by excavating 
for the stone with which Paris was built. They 
. are of prodigious extent, and there are melancholy 
instances to prove how fatally a stranger may lose 

VOL. II. 



T 



m PARIS — CATACOMBS. [mAY, 

himself in the labyrinth of passages into which 
they are divided. 

To prevent a recurrence of such accidents, the 
proper route is indicated by a black line, marked 
upon the roof, which would furnish a straggler 
with a clue to retrace his steps, if he should happen 
to lose his way. 

■ After some time we arrived at a small black 
door, over which was the following inscription : — 

t 

Has ultra metas requiescant 
Beatam spem- expectantes. 

This is the entrance into the Cavern of Death, 
where the contents of the various cemeteries of 
Paris have been deposited; — and as the door is 
locked behind you, it is difficult to prevent an in- 
voluntary shudder from creeping over you, at the 
thought of being shut up with — two millions of 
skulls ! 

Here they are — grinning all around you; piled 
up in every form of fanciful arrangement; though 
the common mode of stowing them is in bins — 
like bottles in a cellar ; in which the thigh bones 
answer the purposes of laths. Upon the whole, it 
is a painful sight. You feel as if you were guilty 
of profanation, by intruding upon that privacy 



1819.] PARIS — CATACOMBS. 275 

which oucrht to be sacred — for the dead should not 

O 

be made a spectacle to the living. We do not 
meet on even terms. They had tongues, and could 
sing — once ! but their gibes and their flashes of 
merriment are gone ; “not one left to mock their 
own grinning ! — Quite chap-fallen.’’ 

W herever you turn, you encounter something 
to excite disagreeable sensations. In one chamber 
is a disgusting assortment of the osteological re- 
mains of disease and deformity; in another, the 
surgeon may study the old fashion of amputating 
limbs and trepanning heads, in the maimed relics 
there collected together. In one place the simple 
inscription of a date calls up the recollection of 
the massacres of the revolution, marking the place 
wdiere the bones of the victims are deposited : 

2 SEPTEMBRE, 1792. 

In another quarter, your eye is arrested by a 
sentence conceived in the worst spirit of French 
philosophy ; and obtruded upon you here in the 
worst taste — 

QujEris quo jaceas post obitum loco? 

Quo non nata jacent. 

At the further extremity of the vaults is a pretty 
fountain, in wdiich some gold fish were sporting 

T 2 



27G PARIS — PALAIS LUXEMBOURG. [mAY, 

ftbout, which seemed to thrive well, unconscious 
of the horrors that surrounded them. 

Though a visit to the catacombs leaves a painful 
impression, the moral effect is wholesome. You 
return to the world more disposed to be in good 
humour with yourself, and with it ; — and in re- 
ascending to the “ warm precincts of the cheerful 
day,” you taste the whole force of Virgil’s exclama- 
tion, where he describes the intense but fruitless 
longing of his departed spirits to return to a world 
which they had wilfully quitted : — 

Quam vellent asthere in alto, 

Nunc et pauperiem, et duros perferre labores ! 

9>2di. \he Palais Luxe77ibourg. Here is the 
exhibition of the paintings of living French artists. 
The style of the modern French painters is glaring 
and harsh, and they are too fond of introducing 
prettiness into interesting subjects. In Guerin's 
famous picture of Phcedra and Hippolytus, you 
may count the squares of the marble pavement, 
and trace all the curious needlework with which 
the garments of the figures are embroidered. All 
the accompaniments are in the same style. Guerin 
however has finely imagined the characters of his 
painting. Phaedra and Hippoly tus are admirable ; 



277 



1819.] PARIS — CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. 

the nurse absolutely speaks, though perhaps she 
has too much the air of a kitchen-maid. Theseus’s 
countenance expresses unmixed contempt — but 
surely there should be some mixture of anger. In 
the colouring of the French painters there is often 
great effect — but then it is almost always an un- 
pleasant effect their pictures are all glare and 
light ; they seem to despise, or to be ignorant of 
chiaroscuro — that delicate management of light 
and shade which gives to objects the relief of na- 
ture. David is the ringleader of this style, and he 
out-Fuselies Fuseli in the overstrained extrava- 
gance of his attitudes. Gerard is the most cele- 
brated artist of the present day, both in history 
and portraits. I endeavoured in vain to see his 
Battle of Austerlitz, which I am told is his best 
work ; but I saw his Entrance of Henry IV. into 
Paris, and the portraits of Mademoiselle Mars, 
and others. There is much merit in his works in 
both kinds. 

24th. Visited the Chamber of Deputies ; — a 
spacious hall of a semicircular form, handsomely 
fitted up with a profusion of marble, and decorated 
with the statues of Lycurgus, Solon, Demosthenes, 
Brutus, Cato, and Cicero. The president’s chair, 
and the desks of the secretaries, occupy the base 



278 PARIS CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. [mAY, 

of the semicircle ; in which the seats of the mem- 
bers are arranged in semicircular rows, rising one 
above the other, facing the president. The two 
centre benches on the floor, immediately opposite 
the tribune, answer to our Treasury Bench, and 
are appropriated to the ministers. Above is a 
roomy gallery for the public. Their hour of meet- 
ing corresponds with that of our own House of 
Commons, in less fashionable times than the pre- 
sent. The doors are opened at half-past eleven 
o’clock; the president takes the chair at one; and 
their debate is brought to a conclusion hy dinner- 
time. The chamber has not shaken off all the 
remains of the imperial stratocracy. Drums an- 
nounced the entrance of the president, who was 
followed by two serjeants at arms. His dress is the 
simple uniform of the Chamber — an embroidered 
blue coat — without wig or gown. These adjuncts 
may contribute nothing to a native dignity of per- 
son, but they are not without their use in supply- 
ing the ordinary deficiencies of nature. Nothing 
could be less dignified than the appearance and 
manner of the French president, who tripped up 
the steps to his chair, with the air of a footman in 
haste to answer his mistress’s bell. Private busi- 
ness, and the presentation of petitions, occupied 



279 . 



1819 .] PARIS — CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. 

the House till two o’clock ; by which time the 
ministers had taken their seats, and the president 
announced the order of the day. 

The ministers wear a uniform distinct from that 
of the Chamber ; and they have the right of speak- 
ing, but cannot vote. The assembly had rather a 
slovenly appearance ; some members being in uni- 
form, and others not; for the costume is only 
strictly necessary to those who mean to mount 
the tribune. The debate was dull and tiresome ; 
the first speaker read his oration from a written 
paper, and persisted for half an hour, though it 
was plain that no person paid the slightest atten- 
tion to a word that he uttered. Then followed 
an extempore orator, who spoke with considerable 
force, animation, and effect; but the mounting 
the tribune — which is placed immediately under 
the president’s chair, so that the orator necessarily 
turns his back upon him — has a bad effect ; it 
takes away the impression of the speech proceed- 
ing from the immediate impulse of the speaker, 
and gives the idea of a premeditated harangue, 
w'hich is always tedious. 

La Fayette sat on the left sidfe of the Chamber, 
which is filled by the Radicals, or as the French 
term them, the Lihtraux; while the opposite 



280 PARIS CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. [maY, 

benches, on the right side, are occupied by the 
Ultra Royalist party. It is impossible not to look 
with interest at this earliest child of the Revolution 
— which has been well compared to Saturn de- 
vouring his children — for his very existence is a 
standing 'miracle ; and excites the sort of feeling 
produced by the sight of a venerable oak, that 
has outlived the fury of a storm, by which the 
minor trees of the forest have been destroyed. 

The Count de Casses^ the popular minister of 
the day, is not more than thirty-eight years old ; 
being under the age prescribed for a deputy. • He 
is the great hero of the centre, which is composed 
of that party of the Chamber called Constitu- 
tionalists, who are supposed to be independent. 
It will be happy for France if this party be really 
composed of men, who having no interested 
views to gratify, are content to “ trim the boat 
and sit quiet;” and, by the judicious disposal of 
their weight, prevent the vessel from leaning toa 
much to the side of the radical royalists on the 
right, or the radical republicans on the left. It is 
such a party as this, founded on principles rather 
than men, and shifting its support as it may per- 
ceive danger from the encroachment of either of 
the ultra parties of the state, that can alone pre- 



281 



1819 .] PARIS — CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. 

serve a mixed constitution from being torn in 
pieces by the madness of democracy, or sinking 
for ever into the death-sleep of despotism. 

Such a body of men is especially necessary in 
France, to temper the excesses of party ascend- 
ency ; for in France, the party in power is omni- 
potent. Never was there seen such a land for 
ratting ; — nothing can equal the rapidity of the 
contagion, which is shown in an immediate com- 
petition amongst all classes to range themselves 
on the side of the strongest. This utter want of 
party attachment has often enabled a daring mi- 
nority, by the semblance of power, to frighten 
the nation into submission to a yoke, which a 
trifling effort would have been sufficient to shake 
off. There is nothing more surprising in the 
strange history of the French Revolution, than 
the barefaced impudence, with which a few daring 
demagogues disposed of the fates of the rest of 
their countrymen; unless it be the base and 
cowardly apathy, with which the great mass sub- 
mitted to the knife of their butchers. Let us 
hear how Madame Roland — the most amiable and 
the most enthusiastic of the partizans of liberty 
— expresses herself, in describing the horrible 
massacres of the prisoners in September, 1793: — 



282 PARIS — CHAMBER OF DEPUTIES. [mAY, 

“ Cependantjles massacres continuerent ^TAhhaye, 
du Dimanche au soir, au Mardi matin ; a la Force, 
davantage ; a Bickre, quatre jours. Tout Paris 
fut temoin de ces horribles scenes executees par 
un petit nombre de bourreaux. Tout Paris laissa 
faire — tout Paris fut maudit ^ mes yeux, et je 
n’esperai plus que la liberte s’etablit parmi des 
laches, insensibles aux derniers outrages qu’on 
puisse faire a riiumanite ; froids spectateurs d’at- 
tentats que le courage de cinquante bommes armes 

auroit facilement emp^ches. Le fait est que 

le bruit d’une pretendue conspiration dans les 
prisons, tout invraisemblable qu’il fut, I’annonce 
affectee de I’inquietude et de la colere du peuple, 
retenait cbacun dans la stupeur, jet lui persuadait 
au fond de sa maison, que c’etait le peuple qui 
agissait ; lorsque de compte fait, il n’y avait pas 
deux cens brigands pour la totality de cette in- 
fame expedition. Aussi ce n’est pas la premiere 
nuit qui m’etonne : mais quatre jours ! — et des 
curieux alloient voir ce spectacle!' — Non je ne 
connais rien dans les annales des peoples les plus 
barbares, de comparable a ces atrocit6s.” It was 
the same culpable apathy, the same selfish timidity, 
in the majority of the Convention, which enabled 
the originally contemptible faction of the Mountain 



1819.] PARIS — THEATRE FRAN 9 AIS. 283 

to subdue, proscribe, and condemn, all its op- 
ponents. The same facility of submission to any 
yoke, has been lately exemplified in the most 
striking manner in the exits and entrances of 
rival kings ; which have been conducted at Paris 
after the same quiet and bloodless manner, in 
which those things are generally exhibited on 
the stage. Madame de Stael, in describing the 
French character, does not omit this striking trait. 
“ Les Frangais,” says she, “ sont pen disposes a 
la guerre civile, parce que chez eux la majorite 
entraine presque toujours la minorite ; le parti qui 
passe pour le plus fort, devient bien vite tout 
puissant, car tout le monde s’y r6unit.” 

26th. In the evening to the Theatre Frangais. 
^Vhen a favourite piece is performed, it is necessary 
to be at the doors some time before they are opened. 
But the candidates for places have the good sense 
to perceive the inconvenience of thronging in a 
disorderly manner, and the established rule is to 
form d la queue as it is called ; that is, in a column 
of two a-breast, and every one is obliged to take his 
place in the rear, in the order in which he arrives. 
This is done with as much order and regularity as 
would be observed in a regiment of soldiers ; in 
consequence of which the whole business is con- 



284 PARIS — THEATRE FRAN 9 AIS. [mAY, 

ducted without the smallest tumult, and with ease 
to every one. It is true that the gens d’armes in 
attendance have authority to enforce this rule, if 
there should be any person so unreasonable as to 
refuse compliance ; but still great credit is due to 
the French for their ready adoption of what is 
rational. The play was Joanne d'Arc. Made- 
moiselle Duchesnois was the heroine, and a most 
alarmingly ugly heroine she made ; but bodily de- 
fects are of little importance if the soul be of the 
right temper. When that is the case — 

“ Pritchard’s genteel, and Garrick’s six feet high.” 

Her face, however plain, is capable of consider- 
able variety of expression ; and, what is of more 
importance than beauty, there is a great deal of 
7nind in her countenance ; for this is absolutely 
necessary to command our interest and sympathy. 
Who can sympathize with a simpleton, even if it 
be a pretty simpleton ? Duchesnois drew down 
much applause, and she deserved it ; — she feels 
justly, and has the faculty of expressing what she 
feels. This is the extent of her merit ; but here, 
where there is so much unnatural declamation, 
her style appears to the greatest advantage. 

Mademoiselle Volnais, for example, v'ith a plump 



1819.] PARIS — theatre fran^ais. S85 

unmeaning pretty face, chants out her part, with 
no more apparent feeling or understanding than a 
parrot. 

La Fond, who is a great favourite with the au- 
dience, played Talbot with something that was 
very like spirit and dignity ; but he can never 
conceal the actor ; he is all “ strut and bellow 
and his voice, though it has great compass, is 
harsh and unpleasant. The political allusions of 
which the play is full, particularly the prophetic 
denunciations of Joanne against England, were 
eagerly seized by the audience, and rancorously 
applauded. It must require all the vanity of the 
French, to sit and hear, as the audience did with 
patience and complacency, the most fulsome and 
disgusting flattery addressed to their national feel- 
ings, in the vilest and worst taste of clap-traps. 
The very gallery in England has grown out of its 
liking for this sort of stuff. 

A new after-piece followed — ‘‘ Les Femmes Po~ 
lltiques;' a pretty trifle written in elegant language, 
which was charmingly delivered. Mademoiselle 
Mars and Mademoiselle Dupuis played delight- 
fully ; Baptiste aine looked and spoke like the old 
gentleman he represented ; and Monrose excited 
a laugh without descending to buffoonery and 



286 



PARIS — THEATRE FRAN§AIS. [mAY, 

caricature. This sort of conversational French 
comedy is delightful j — it is Nature in her best 
dress — polite — well bred — and sparkling. 

• But, in comedies where there is more room for 
the exhibition of comic humour, the French actors 
are perhaps inferior to our own. We shall in vain 
look for parallels of what Lewis was, or what 
Munden and Dowton are ; and even with respect 
to Mademoiselle Mars, excellent as she is in the 
first and highest walks of comedy, for which she 
seems designed by nature — being very beautiful, 
very graceful, and perfectly well-bred; — yet, in 
characters of archness and humour, she might put 
a little more heart, and a great deal more mind 
into her representations. We miss the force, the 
richness, and the warmth of Mrs. Jordan’s acting, 
and the exquisite point that she had the art of 
giving to comic dialogue ; which only wanted the 
embellishments and good-breeding of the French 
Thalia, to constitute a perfect actress. 

The point of perfection would perhaps be found 
somewhere between the styles of the two nations. 
To take an example from the Tarty ffe ; — the 
famous scene between Tartuffe and Elmir e is 
scarcely played up to the intention of the author, 
by Damas and Mademoiselle Mars, and it certainly 



PARIS — THEATRE FRANCAIS. 



287 



1819.] 



might be coloured higher, without overstepping 
the modesty of nature. Dowton, in Cantwell, 
may go a little too far with Lady Lambert — and 
yet who can think so that remembers the effect 
produced by his management of the interview? — 
but Damas, in Tartuffe, does not go far enough 
with Elmire. The scene “ comes tardy off : * 

hienstance, when carried too far, is a millstone 
round the neck of tragedy and comedy. Con- 
greve says well, that a scene on the stage must 
represent nature, but in warmer colours than it 
exists in reahty. It is in Moliere particularly, 
perhaps exclusively, that the French comedians 
seem to fall short of the author ; for Moliere is 
the most humorous of all their writers. He is the 
Fielding of France, and there is a richness and a 
raciness about him which are sometimes frittered 
away in the representation. 

It might be curious to inquire the cause of the 
universal decline of the art of acting, during the 
present age. France has only two performers that 
are much above mediocrity ; but they are excellent ; 
— Talma in tragedy, and Mars in comedy. As to 
all the rest, though many have a considerable por- 
tion of merit, we may pass them over in silence, 
except Potier ; who is, as he deserves to be, a 



S88 l»ARlS — FRENCH OPERA. [mAY, 

prodigious favourite in farce and caricature, — but 
we possess a better edition of Potier than the 
French themselves, in our own inimitable Liston. 

The French opera is the most splendid theatre 
in Paris; but protect me from French singing! — 
especially if it be serious singing. Arthur Young, 
in speaking of French singing, describes it as “ the 
distortions of embodied dissonance,” and Rousseau 
inveighs against the “lamentable chant Frangais” 
as bearing more resemblance “aux cris de la co- 
lique qu’aux transports des passions ; ” and in their 
choruses there is a grand roar-royal, as if they 
all had the cholic together. The light airs of their 
comic operas are, however, very pleasing ; and 
there is at least this merit in their singing, that 
you can hear what they say. The airs of Gretry 
are delightful. The ballet of the French opera is 
perfect; — in dancing, as well as cooking, I believe 
we must acknowledge our inferiority, nor attempt 
to rival the French in agility of heels. I have 
seen, in the gardens of Tivoli, a pas de trois^ 
performed by two males and one female dancer, 
upon stilts, Thepiroiiettes on these seven-leagued 
legs were inexpressibly ridiculous; but if diffi- 
culty be the great desideratum in dancing, this 
style, of all others, ought to be entitled to the 
loudest applause. 



PARIS — THE LOUVRE. 



289 



1819.] 

27th. The Louvre^ stripped as it has been of 
the spoils which Buonaparte and his myrmidons 
had collected from all parts of Europe, is still a 
noble collection. The gallery itself — 500 yards in 
length — lined with pictures, is a magnificent sight. 

There are still remaining some beautiful spe- 
cimens of Raphael, Murillo, Titian, anJ Salvator 
Rosa. The gaps occasioned by the restoration 
of the spoils of Italy have been filled up with the 
Luxembourg pictures of Rubens, who has thrown 
away a vast deal of labour and fine colouring in 
hopeless and incurable allegories; and by the sea- 
pieces of Vernet, which are so beautiful, that we 
cannot, while looking at them, regret the absence 
of any pictures whatever. His views of the sea- 
ports combine all the beauties of painting with the 
most accurate fidelity of resemblance. But it is' 
in his fancy pieces that he gives the reins to his 
imagination, and indulges in every variety of tint 
and contrast ; and it is difficult to say whether he 
is most admirable, in the warm glow of sunshine — 
the pale silver gleams of moonlight — the gloomy 
gathering of a fog — or the terrific horrors of a 
tempest. 

Nicholas Poussin is the great hero of the French 
school of painting. There is a hardness of man- 



voL. ir. 



u 



290 PARIS — THE LOUVRE. [maY, 

ner in the generality of his works, which injures 
their effect — but his Deluge is sublime. There is 
a dark and terrible solemnity about it, admirably 
suited to the subject. The universal desolation 
is pictured by a selection of a few instances of the 
most affecting images, which do honour to the 
heart of the painter ; who represents love — con- 
jugal and parental love — as enduring through all 
trials, exerting its energy to the last, and over- 
whelmed only in the end — by the destruction of 
all things. One would almost fancy Poussin had 
wished to illustrate the sentiment of Solomon — 
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can 
floods drown it.” 

There is a picture in the Louvre by Lairesse, 
from which I think Sir Joshua Reynolds must 
have borrowed the idea of Garrick between Co- 
medy and Tragedy. 

The composition and arrangement of the figures 
are so precisely the same, that the resemblance 
can scarcely be accidental. The subject is Her- 
cules between Virtue and Vice; and Sir Joshua 
has not been even at the pains of adding legs to 
the half-lengths of the originals ; though he has 
certainly improved upon Lairesse’s Vice, in his 
exquisitely charming figure of Thalia. 

The Louvre collection of statues may still boast 



1819.] PARIS — FRENCHWOMEN. 291 

some of tlie most beautiful specimens of ancient 
sculpture. The Borgliese collection, amongst 
which are the famous fighting Gladiator, and the 
Hermaphrodite, was bought and added to the 
National Museum by Napoleon. 

28th. Before I leave Paris, I ought to record 
my impressions of the French women ; who must, 
I think, yield the palm to their English and Italian 
neighbours. They want the freshness and re- 
tiring delicacy of the first ; and the dignity and 
voluptuous enthusiasm of the second. Whatever 
beauty there is amongst them is confined to the 
upper classes, and the Grisettes. In passing 
through the country, I was everywhere appalled 
by the squalid faces of the peasantry ; so unlike 
the romantic pictures of Sterne. The point in 
which the Parisian ladies claim the most decided 
superiority over their English sisters is in thd 
elegance of their tournure ; — and for this claim 
there may be some foundation. The French 
ladies, however, sometimes carry their pretty 
mincing airs too far ; but even this is better tlftfti 
the opposite extreme, which is occasionally exem- 
plified in the striding gait of an Englishwoman. 
What Rousseau said of the Parisiennes, and of the 
silly spirit of imitation which induces other nations 

u 2 



292 PARIS — FRENCH WOMEN. [mAY, 

to deform their figures by adopting the deformities 
of French fashions, may well be applied to the 
present day ; when every Englishwoman is at the 
pains of making herself hump-backed, for no other 
reason, as it would seem, than that the native 
beauty of her form may he reduced to the French 
standard of symmetry. “ Menues,” says Rousseau, 
speaking of the Parisiennes, “plutot que bien 
faites, elles n’ont pas la taille fine ; aussi s’at- 
tachent-elles volontiers aux modes qui la de- 
guisent ; en quoi je trouve assez simples les femmes 
des autres pays, de vouloir bien des modes faites 
pour cacher les defauts qu’elles n’ont pas.” 

It is a curious fact that in 1814, the English 
ladies were so possessed with a rage for imitating 
even the deficiencies of their French sisterhood, 
that they actually had recourse to violent means, 
even to the injury of their health, to compress 
their beautiful bosoms as flatly as possible, and 
destroy every vestige of those charms, for which, 
of all other women, they are perhaps the most 
indebted to nature. 

The French women appear, what I believe they 
really are, kind, good-humoured, and affectionate ; 
but light, fickle, capricious, and trifling. Without 
having thrown off entirely the robe of virtue, they 



1819.] PARIS — FRENCH WOMEN. 292 

wear it so loosely as to admit of freedoms, which 
would shock the delicacy of more reserved man- 
ners. No woman in Paris, I believe, would feel 
offended at any proposals, if made d’une certaine 
maniere, et d'un air bien comme il faut ; — though it 
by no means follows that the proposals would be 
accepted; for, as Mrs. Sullen says, in the play, 
“ it happens with women as with men ; the greatest 
talkers are often the greatest cowards, and there 
is a reason for it: — those spirits evaporate in 
prattle, which might do more mischief if they 
took another course.” But there can be no de- 
scriptions of national characters without excep- 
tions; — Mesdames Ney and Lavalette, in these- 
days, and Mesdames La Roche Jacquelin and 
Roland, in the days of the Revolution, may chal- 
lenge a comparison with the fairest names that 
ever adorned the annals of womanhood. 

Matrimony, if one may take the evidence of the 
journals, seems to be a regular business of adver- 
tisement. I select three out of eight in one paper ; 
— and all too on the part of the ladies. 

“ Une demoiselle bien nee et aimable, ayant 
120,000 francs de biens, desire epouser un homme 
%e et riche.” 

“ Une demoiselle de 24 ans, jolie et d’une edu- 



294 



PARIS— GAMING TABLES. 



[may, 

cation distinguee, ayant 40,000 francs comptant, 
et par la suite, 200,000 francs, desire epouser un 
jeune homme aimable, et ayant de la fortune.” 

“ Une demoiselle, de 19 ans, sans fortune, mais 
jolie, aimable, et bien elev6e, desire epouser un 
homme age, et assez aise pour pouvoir faire 
quelque bien a sa m^re.” 

Perhaps agt means no more than ouv word aged^ 
as applied to a horse. 

This may suffice as a specimen ; — on the part 
of the gentlemen the paper offered no advertise- 
ment whatever. 

29th. The following document, taken from the 
Bibliotheque HistoriquCi will show the fearful 
extent to which gaming is carried in Paris at 
present. 

BUDGET DES JEUX PUBLICS. 

ETAT DES FRAIS ANNUELS DES JEUX DE PARIS. 

7 Tables de Trente-et-un. 

9 De Roulette. 

1 Passe-Dix. 

1 Craps. 

1 Creps. 

1 Biribi. 



20 



PARIS — GAMING TABLES. 



295 



] 819 .] 

These twenty tables are distributed about Paris ; 
the minimum established as a stake, varies from a 
Napoleon to a sous ; so that every man may find 
a table suited to his fortune. At some, women are 
admitted, and it is needless to describe the effect 
which such institutions must have upon the morals 
of the town. The current expenses of these esta- 
blishments are calculated at no less a sum than 
1,551,480 francs per annum. And in addition to 
these there is the “ hail^' or duty to government, 
6,000,000 francs ; and the bonus for the bail 
166,666 francs ; making together the enormous 
sum of 7,718,146 francs. 

From documents it appears that the average 
gain of the tables is 800,000 francs per month, 
amounting to 9,600,000 francs per annum; which, 
after subtracting the expenses, 7,718,146 francs, 
will leave a clear profit of 1,881,854 francs. And 
yet, in spite of this unanswerable logic of figures 
and facts, there are every day fresh victims, who 
are infatuated enough to believe that it is possible 
to counterbalance the advantage which the bank 
possesses, by a judicious management of the power 
that the player has of altering his stake. This is 
a fatal error. For though it is common to talk of 
the uncertainty of chance ; yet, in an unlimited 



296 



PARIS — NAPOLEON. 



[may, 



series, chance becomes certainty; and the doc- 
trine of the chances is founded upon the same 
general and immutable laws which direct all the 
operations of matter. There is a little pamphlet 
published at Paris, which ought to be read by 
every man who needs to be convinced that he who 
plays against the table must, at the long run, 
be made a beggar. 

30th. The “ zeal to destroy” is busily at work 
all over Paris, in endeavouring to obliterate Na- 
poleon’s renoAvn ; and indeed to convert the im- 
perial insignia into emblems in honour of the 
Bourbons. Thus, the N. is universally changed 
into an H. to pay a compliment to Henri Oxiatre^ 
of which he has no need ; and the Bee is trans- 
formed into a jleur de lis. The has reliefs too, 
which commemorate the achievements of the Ex- 
Emperor, are torn down without mercy. There 
is something pitiful in this disfigurement, which 
does little credit to those who ordered it. It is 
not only ill-judged, as being calculated to engrave 
deeper on the tablets of the memory the recollec- 
tion of those exploits, which, are thus unworthily 
treated ; but the attempt is manifestly impossible. 
All Paris savours of Napoleon; for instance — 
what can be done with the column in the Place 



1819 .] FOUNTAIN OF THE ELEPHANT. 297 

Vendome ? — can it be supposed that the white flag 
on the top of it, will efface the recollection that 
this pillar was composed of 1,200 pieces of cannon 
taken by Napoleon at the battle of Austerlitz? 

This subject has been well treated in the letter 
to the Duke of Wellington, which was attributed 
to Fouche: — “ Quand on a ete subjugu^ par Na- 
poleon, il y a peu de jugement k le d6nigrer — plus 
on cherche a I’abaisser plus on s’avilit soi-meme; 
— le Yoyageur sourit de piti6 en voyant effacer d 
grands frais les aigles, qui se trouvent sur les mo- 
numens qu’il a repares ou eleves : — comme si la 
memoire des faits devait perir avec les aigles!” 
The same work of destruction has been carried 
on at the Pantheon, where the fine mythological 
bas reliefs have been removed, though the ex- 
ample of St. Peter’s at Rome might be pleaded 
in their justification ; and the inscription on the 
frieze of the ’portico — “ Aux grands liommes la 
Patrie reconnoissante " — is about to give place to 
some more loyal and legitimate motto. 

Amongst the unfinished works of Napoleon is 
the Fountain which he intended should be erected 
on the site of the Bastile. This fountain was to 
consist of an enormous elephant, the model of 
which is now to be seen in plaster of Paris, on the 



298 



PARIS — GOBELIN TAPESTRY. 



[may, 



spot where the Bastile formerly stood. It is se- 
venty-two feet in height; the jet d'eau is through 
the nostrils of his trunk ; the reservoir, in the 
tower upon his back ; and one of his legs contains 
the staircase, for ascending to the large room 
within his body. The Elephant was to be exe- 
cuted in bronze, with tusks of silver, surrounded 
by lions of bronze ; who were to expectorate the 
water from one cistern to another. It is remark- 
able, how little the persons who live close to the 
Bastile know of the particulars which happened 
at the taking of that place by the populace — an 
event which happened so short a time ago. And, 
in the accounts which have been published, there 
is scarcely a circumstance which is told in the 
same manner by any two narrators. 

From the site of the Bastile, I went to the ma- 
nufactory of Gobelin Tapestry. It is extremely 
curious to see the operations of this manufacture. 
The material on which the tapestry is worked 
consists merely of single threads ; which are 
placed upon a frame, over which the workman 
leans. The outline of the pattern is marked in 
black chalk, upon the threads ; and the worsted 
being ready rolled, the artist then works it in, in 
the various proper shades, with no other direction 



299 



1819 .] PARIS — THE DEAF AND DUMB. 

to guide him than a coloured model which hangs 
near him. The extraordinary part of the work 
is, that he produces the desired effect, using the 
most brilliant colours and the softest gradations of 
tints, with the happiest use of light and shadow, 
without looking at the fair side of his work in its 
progress ; — for it is the inside, which is always 
next to him. 

June 5th. Visited the Institution for the Deaf 
and Dumb ; — the most interesting of all the esta- 
blishments in Paris. The system 'of education, 
invented by the benevolent Abb6 de I’Epee for 
the education of these helpless children, shut out, 
as it would seem, by nature, from the chief sources 
of intelligence, has been prosecuted with equal 
success by the Abbe Sicard. The difficulty ob- 
viously consists in establishing a medium of com- 
munication with the mind of the pupil. The Abbe 
de l’Ep6e, who, without preferment, or patronage, 
or other support than that of his own patrimonial 
means, devoted his life and fortune to the main- 
tenance and education of a large domestic esta- 
blishment of deaf and dumb, surmounted the diffi- 
culty, and invented a method of conveying ideas 
to the mind, by means of visible signs. This is 
done by writing the names of things, and, by a 
regular system of signs, establishing a connexion 



300 PARIS — THE DEAF AND DUMB. [jUNE, 

between the written words, and the ideas to be 
excited by them. This ingenious system would 
appear at first sight to be almost impracticable ; 
but, as the Abbe well observed, “ the connexio n 
between ideas and the articulate sounds, which 
are the ordinary means by which they are excited 
in the mind, is quite as arbitrary as that between 
these ideas and the written characters he used to 
represent them to the eye.” 

The mind once stored with ideas, and a channel 
of communication established, the pupil is soon 
taught — what may be called the mechanical part 
of his education — the use and exercise of the 
organs of speech ; and as a privation of any of 
the senses is found to produce a greater quickness 
in those that remain, the sense of sight becomes 
in the deaf and dumb so acute, that they can see 
the answer of the person with whom they converse, 
by observing the motion of the lips. 

Some of the definitions, which are recorded as 
the answers oiMassieu andZrCcfcrc, two 

of M. Sicard’s most celebrated pupils, at public 
examinations, are at once accurate and beautiful. 
To instance a few ; Eternite — un jour sans hier ni 
demain; Reconnoissance — la m^moire du coeur ; 
Les sens — des porte-idees. 

Many of the definitions of these pupils have 



301 



1819 .] PARIS THE DEAF AND DUMB. 

been recorded ; but there are none more worthy 
of record than the answers which they made to 
the following question : “ Quelle difference y a-t-il 
entre le desir et I’esperance reply is 

remarkable for metaphysical acuteness, and nice 
discrimination : “ Le desir est une inclination du 
cceur ; Vesp'trance — une confiance de I’esprit.” Le- 
clerc's answer displays more imagination, and is 
indeed less a definition than an illustration; — but 
it is a- beautiful illustration : “ Le desir est un 
arbre en feuilles ; Vesper ance — un arbre en fleurs ; 
la jouissance — un arbre en fruits.” 

The intellectual attainments of these persons 
furnish the strongest argument against those doc- 
trines which would persuade us that the soul of 
man is only the result of the organs of sense. If 
any farther argunlent were needed to convince us 
of the immaterial nature of the thinking being 
within us, we might surely find it in the example 
afforded by the deaf and dumb ; which seems to 
prove that the soul’s existence is independent of 
the senses ; — though their excitement may be re- 
quired to call out its powers, and a certain material 
apparatus be necessary to the manifestation of its 
faculties. 

It has been stated, as a singular coincidence. 



302 LEAVE PARIS FOR DIEPBE. [jUNE, 

that a deaf and dumb pupil, being asked to define 
his idea of the sound of a trumpet, compared it to 
the colour red ; as Sanderson, the famous blind 
Mathematical Professor, used to explain his idea 
of the colour red, by likening it to the sound of a 
trumpet. 

Drove afterwards to the Hotel Dieuy one of the 
largest hospitals in Paris. Every thing was neat 
and clean ; the furniture of the beds was white, 
and looked fresh and wholesome. In walking 
through the wards, though there was much to 
afflict the eye, there was nothing to offend any 
other sense. 

The French boast much of their surgical attain- 
ments ; and indeed their campaigns must have 
afforded them the most ample opportunities of 
practice and experience. 

One improvement, I believe, they may have in- 
troduced, which has been found of extensive 
benefit in military practice ; — that of immediate 
amputation before inflammation takes place ; in 
opposition to the old established system of wait- 
ing till the inflammation had subsided. 

7th. Left Paris for Dieppe, travelhng the lower 
road to Rouen ; which passes along the banks of 
the Seine, and abounds more in picturesque pro- 



FRENCH CHARACTER. 



303 



1819.] 

spect, than any other which I have yet seen in 
France ; though this is not saying much in its 
favour. But the view of Rouen, from a height 
about a league from it, is very fine, and might be 
admired in any part of England. Normandy, 
indeed, in many of its features, bears a striking 
resemblance to England ; and the likeness in- 
creases as you advance from Rouen towards 
Dieppe, through the green and fertile valley, rich 
in pastures and orchards, and peopled with the 
cotton-workers, by means of whom the French 
hope to rival our long-established superiority in 
that manufacture. 

Having now arrived at Dieppe, the last stage of 
the French territory, I would willingly part with 
them in good humour. There are some amiable 
traits of character, which are universally prevalent, 
and must strike the most common observer. They 
are, almost without exception, a temperate people ; 
and, with wine at command, which may be bought 
for almost nothing, they rarely drink to excess. 
It must be confessed too, that they are much kinder 
and gentler in their treatment of the brute part 
of the creation, than the lower orders of our own 
country ; and indeed the appearance of the animals 
confirms this opinion; for you never see those 



304 



FRENCH CHARACTER. 



[jUNE, 

maimed, broken-knee’d, miserable objects — the 
victims of ill-temper and ill-treatment — which so 
often shock one in England. 

Again — if the French have a much greater share 
of vanity than their insular neighbours, they are 
at least untainted with that ludicrous sort of 
pride which thrives so prodigiously in England — 
setting a fool in fermentation, and swelling him 
out with inflated ideas of self-importance ; — for no 
one here is above speaking civilly to his inferior, 
how great soever the distance between them. The 
French too in many instances exhibit a praise- 
worthy disregard of outward appearance, to which 
the English, from pride or mauvaise honte^ practise 
so obsequious a submission. In France no man 
need fear sinking in the estimation of his friends 
from the shabbiness of his coat, the height of his 
lodgings, or the fashion of his equipage. 

If I have seen little else to mention with com- 
mendation, it may be that I have been blinded by 
national prejudice ; for I believe it is difficult, if 
not impossible, to acquire that complete impar- 
tiahty which is so necessary in the pursuit of truth. 
It would seem that a man’s head was like a bowl, 
and that he came into the world with a certain 
bias infixed by the hand of nature herself. This 



DIEPPE. 



305 



1819.] 

bias in an Englishman’s head disposes him to dis- 
like every thing belonging to a Frenchman. I 
confess, till I had resided in France, I used to 
think that this prejudice was carried much too 
far ; but I leave it with a most devout wish that 
it may never be my misfortune to reside in it again ; 
and a very strong hope that the national feeling, 
which has so long kept us a distinct people in all 
our habits, feelings, and principles, may long con- 
tinue to be cherished ; and that the sound and 
sufficient sentiment of love of country may never 
be laughed out of countenance by the vain and 
visionary nonsense of universal philanthropy. 

9th. Dieppe. Labor ultimus ! — Ascended the 
cliff to snuff up the gale that comes from Old 
England. “ Oh England ! England 1 thou land of 
liberty — thou climate of good sense — thou tenderest 
of mothers and gentlest of nurses — how I long 
to embrace thee again ! And yet now that I am 
within twelve hours’ sail of thee, and that I can 
approach thee with amended health and brighter 
prospects, I feel a strange mixture of apprehension 
and anxiety. Who has not felt, though parting 
from friends is the severest of all trials, that meet- 
ing again is not without its disquietudes ; especially 
after a long absence from those with whom we 



VOL. II. 



X 



c 



LONDON: 

PRINTED BY C. ROWORTII, BELL YARD, 
TEMPLE BA U. 



[7 w 







r ■ 










