At 


ft 


MEMOIRS 


OF 


BARON BUNSEN. 


VOL. II. 


LONDON: PRINTED BY 
SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 
AND PABLIAMENT STREET 


" 
ma, 
vette, 





Henry Adar S¢- 





JULY, 1860. 


FROM A PORTRATT, BY ROSTING PAINTED AT BONN, 


MEMOIRS 


OF 


BARON BUNSEN 


LATE MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY AND ENVOY EXTRAORDINARY 
OF HIS MAJESTY FREDERIC WILLIAM IV. AT THE 
COURT OF ST. JAMES. 


DRAWN CHIEFLY FROM FAMILY PAPERS BY HIS WIDOW 


FRANCES BARONESS BUNSEN. 


SECOND EDITION, ABRIDGED AND CORRECTED. 


IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL, II. 


LONDON : 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 
1869. 


CONTENTS 


THE SECOND VOLUME. 


CHAPTER XI. 


BUNSEN AS PRUSSIAN MINISTER IN LONDON. 


PAGE 
Carlton Terrace—King of Prussia’s Visit to England—Reception 


at Windsor—Opening of Parliament—lIIlness of Bunsen—Lord 
Stanhope—Lambeth—Cambridge—Death of Arnold—Florence 
Nightingale— Dramatic Representations—German ‘ Hymn Book’ 
—Norwich—the Gurneys—Drayton Manor—Herstmonceaux— 
Journey to Berlin—The German Hospital—Reception by the 
King—Prince of Prussia—Emperor of Russia goes to England 
—Returns to London—Tour in England with the Prince of 
Prussia—Correspondence with Hare. . ; 5 : ; 1 


CHAPTER XII. 


CONTINUED RESIDENCE IN LONDON. 


‘Church of the Future’—The Queen’s Visit to Germany—Brihl 
—Stolzenfels— Visit to Corbach —Death of Mrs. Fry—the 
Oregon Question—Joseph John Gurney—Evangelical Alliance 
—Cassiobury— Windsor — Trentham—-The Prussian Constitu- 
tion—Felix Mendelssohn—Philological Studies—The Queen’s 
Visit to Cambridge—Audience of the Queen—Dr. Hampden— 
Woburn se aa Saat Louisa Stuart—the ee 
Revolution P : . , . 2 


vl CONTENTS OF 


CHAPTER XIII. 


‘AGITATION IN EUROPE. 
PAGE 
The Revolution of the 24th February—Baron Stockmar at Frank- 


fort—The Rising at Berlin—Prince of Prussia arrives at Carlton 
Terrace-—Totteridge—Letter to Mr. Reeve on German Progress 
—Excursion to Germany — Conflict between Frankfort and 
Berlin—Bunsen adheres to the Prussian Side—State of Berlin 
—Returns to England—Memoir on Events at Berlin . . 99 


CHAPTER XIV. 
CORRESPONDENCE. 


‘Nemesis of Faith’ — Christology — Occasional Memoranda — 
Relations with Austria — Osborne House — Prince Albert — 
Great Exhibition of 1851—Bunsen’s Speech — The Gorham 
Judgement—Death of Sir R. Peel—Broadlands—Danish Affairs 
—Egyptian Studies . : : : . : ‘ : . 1389 


CHAPTER XV. 
CORRESPONDENCE. 


Prospects of Germany ‘ Hippolytus’—Protocol of 8th May, 1852 
—Count Usedom’s Narrative—Visit to Gluszow—Inverary— 
Affair of Neufch&tel—The Mosaic Books—Mazzini—Despond- 
ing Views of Germany—Funeral of the Duke of Wellington— 
Letter on Religious Opinions—Lord Derby’s First Administra- 
tion—The French Empire—Change of ministry— Edinburgh 
Diploma—Crystal Palace—Cologne Singers—Naval Review— 
Dedication of ‘ Hippolytus ’—Theological Conferences at Berlin 
—Policy of Russia—Menace of War . . ‘ . 183 


CHAPTER XVI. 
RECALL FROM LONDON—INDEPENDENCE. 


Bunsen recalled from England—Departure from Carlton Terrace 
—Farewell to his Friends—Establishes himself and Family at 
Charlottenberg — Correspondence from Heidelberg — The Im- 
maculate Conception—State of Germany—Bible Work—Death 
of Archdeacon Hure . < ‘ ; ; ‘ . 205 


THE SECOND VOLUME. Vil 


CHAPTER XVII. 


LIFE AT HEIDELBERG. 
PAGE 
Literary Work—TInterview with the King—‘Signs of the Times’ 


—Fall of Sebastopol—' God in History’—‘ Biblework ’—Lettor 
from Frederica Bremer—Journey to Switzerland —Visit to 
Coppet— Schérer— Return to sea ae iia of Old eae 
—Close of the year 1856 ; : . 241 


CHAPTER XVITI. 
LAST VISIT TO BERLIN. 


Declining Health — Neufchatel —Article on Luther — Energctic 
Work—Letter to Mr. Harford—Letter to the Duchess of Argyll 
—Visit from Mr. Astor—Visit to Berlin—Letter from the King 
of Prussia—The Evangelical Alliance at Berlin i ; . 274 


CHAPTER XIX. 
JOURNEYS TO BERLIN AND SOUTH OF FRANCE. 


Elevation of Bunsen to the Peerage—Renan—QDord Derby’s 
Administration —India Bill—Death of Neukomm —Bunsen’s 
Religious Opinions—Visit to Baden—-Affair of Rastadt—Bun- 
sen’s Opinions on Clairvoyance—Visit to Berlin—The Prince 
Regent—Bunsen takes his Seat in the Prussian House of Peers 
— Journey to Geneva and the South of France —Cannes—Death 
of Tocqueville—‘ The Life of Jesus’—Campaign of 1859— 
Prussia and Austria—Sympathy with Italy—Irritation in South- 
ern Germany— Visit to Paris— Return to Cannes—Commercial 
Treaty of France and England : : . . . . 3811 


CHAPTER XxX. 
THE LAST YEAR OF LIFE—-NOVEMBER 1859 TO NOVEMBER 1860. 


Centenary of Schiller’s Birth—Bunsen finally leaves Heidelberg— 
Journey to Paris and Cannes—Family Troubles—Journey to 
Bonn—Purchase of a House there—Visits from his Children 
and their Families—His last Birthday, August 25, 1860—In- 

' crease of Suffering—Takes to his Bed, October 28, 1860— 
tallies again—His Death, November 28, 1860—His Funeral, 
December 1, 1860—Closing Remarks. . . ‘ . 860 


INDEX . . . . . «© 8 » 8 4 $08 


LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 


Portrait or Bunsen, by Roeting . . «. «. Frontispiece 


Bust or Bunsun, by Behnes, 1847 : in page 99 


Resipence oF BuNSEN aT Bonn : ‘; ; ? ; . 360 


Bunsen’s Monument at Bonn — x . : . . . $99 


s 


MEMOLRS 


OF 


BARON BUNSEN, 


CHAPTER XI. 
BUNSEN AS PRUSSIAN MINISTER IN LONDON. 


CARLTON TERRACE—KING OF PRUSSIA’'S VISIT TO ENGLAND-—RECEPTION 
AT WINDSOR—OPENING OF PARLIAMENT—ILLNESS OF BUNSEN--LORD 
STANHOPE—-LAMBETH—-CAMBRIDGE~—DEATH OF ARNOLD—FLORENCE 
NIGHTINGALE—-DRAMATIC REPRESENTATIONS——-GERMAN ‘ HYMN BOOK ’— 
NORWICH — THE GURNEYS—DRAYTON MANOR — HERSTMONCEAUX -- 
JOURNEY TO BERLIN-—-THKE GERMAN HOSPITAL-~RECEPTION BY THE 
KING-—PRINCE OF PRUSSIA-~—-EMPEROR OF RUSSIA GOES TO ENGLAND— 
RETURNS TO LONDON—TOUR IN ENGLAND WITH THE PRINCE OF PRUSSIA 
— CORRESPONDENCE WITH HARE. 


Tue concluding days of the year 1841 were marked 
by the journey of Bunsen’s family to rejoin him! 
They were received by Bunsen on the 6th January. 
at the Tower Stairs, and conducted to a place of 
abode almost appalling in its palace-like effect. That 
Bunsen should have engaged the beautiful mansion 
of Lord Stuart de Rothesay was well-judged, as the 
character of the house tacitly assumed for its oc- 
cupant the position which he instinctively felt to 
be indispensable, under present circumstances, even 


(rou. II, B 





2 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


though his predecessors had taken up their abode in 
very inferior situations. ' 

In giving a picture of Bunsen’s life in the begin- 
ning of his residence in England, much scruple is 
felt in introducing matter irrelevant to Bunsen’s inner 
life, and to the more serious views, and objects, and 
interests of his outward existence: but it was one 
of his own maxims, that without the knowledge and 
consideration of the surrounding scene and its bound- 
ing horizon a just view cannot be taken either of a 
man’s state of mind or of his course of action. Un- 
fortunately, during the entire period of Bunsen’s 
residence in London his own letters are comparatively 
scarce, because he was rarely parted from her to 
whom he failed not to furnish a journal of thought 
and of action when at a distance. Besides which, 
politics having become in England the predominant 
occupation of Bunsen, and being necessarily excluded 
from these Memoirs (except where contemporary 
mention casually occurs in any of the passages ex- 
tracted), there is not more but less to be reported of 
these maturer years than of those of his first period 
of private and public life. 


Extracts from Contemporary Letters. 


_ 19th January, 1842.—Yesterday morning, the 18th, 
Bunsen embarked on board the Firebrand to meet and 
fetch the King; but the vessel did not depart by the morning 
tide—I hope it did by theevening. George arrived in time 
to see his father, who has taken him with him. | 


4Er, 50} VISIT OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA. 3 


Extracts from Contemporary Letters. 


On Saturday, the 22nd, I drove to Greenwich, having a 
card of invitation to witness the King’s landing, at the 
Admiral’s house (as well as Neukomm, who was with me), 
through Lord Haddington. Before the King arrived, I had 
much pleasure in seeing Lady Stopford and her daughter, 
pleasing like all Stopfords that I know, and in being recog- 
mised by Lady Bloomfield, the only person not a stranger 
to me except Lord and Lady Haddington and Lord West- 
moreland. The King’s landing and reception were de- 
lightful to behold,—the sudden appearance of the much- 
watched-for steamer, the rapid lowering of the flag with the 
Black Eagle, and as rapid hoisting on the light boat in which 
the King and his attendants were conveyed to the stairs 
leading from the water’s edge to the terrace, to which we 
all descended to see the entrance, nm quick procession, of the 
King and Prince Albert, by a lane formed through the sohd 
mass of life assembled to behold and applaud. He entered 
and greeted the Admiral graciously, but declined coming up 
to the drawing-room (where refreshments were prepared), 
as he was in haste to proceed to Windsor Castle with 
Prince Albert. However, being informed that the Prin- 
cess Sophia of Gloucester was among the assembled ladies, 
he declared that he could not depart without speaking to 
her—but would not commit the disrespect of appearing 
before a lady of the Royal Family in his morning coat ; and 
in spite of the assurances of Prince Albert that change of 
dress was totally unnecessary, the King’s valet received 
orders to take out the evening coat, and, thus attired, the 
King came upstairs, and in his short but cordial greeting to 
the Princess, gave the party further opportunity of seeing 
him, before he proceeded, attended by the whole suite in- 
cluding Bunsen, who was invited to Windsor Castle for the 
whole time of the King’s stay. . . . On Wednesday, the 
26th, Bunsen wrote to give the earliest notice that a formal 
invitation would be sent to me for Friday, 28th, to stay at 

B 2 


4, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


Windsor Castle till Saturday morning—on which Satur- 
day the King would be pleased to take luncheon in this 
house (4, Carlton Terrace)—-when such persons would be 
invited as would not otherwise be seen by the King at all, 
or not as much as he might wish. On Thursday, Bunsen 
was at home for an hour or two, in the course of which time 
visits took place from the Archbishop of Canterbury and the 
Bishop of London, whom I was glad to see, but wished gone, 
wanting instructions, as I did, as to the invitations I was to 
write and send. On the Friday, I was at work till it was 
time to drive to the railway, taking up Bunsen by the way 
at Sir Robert Peel’s, whither he had attended the King, 
who had accepted a luncheon there. We were quartered in 
the York Tower, the apartment most complete and com- 
fortable,* the rooms all grouped together. Proceeding 
along the corridor as soon as dressed, we soon met Lord 
Delawarr and the Duchess of Buccleuch, and were directed 
where to go, that is, to walk to the end of the corridor (a 
fairy scene, lights, pictures, busts, and moving figures of 
courtiers unknown), and then through one splendid room 
after another, till we reached the magnificent ballroom, 
where guests were assembled to await the Quecn’s appear- 
ance. Among these guests stood the King himself, punc- 
tual to half-past seven. Soon after came Prince Albert, to 
whom Lord Delawarr named me: he said, ‘You were long 
in Rome. I have been in your house at Rome.’ We 
had not stood long, when two gentlemen, walking in, and 
then turning, with profound bows towards the open door, 
showed that the Queen was approaching. She came near 
at once where I stood; the Duchess of Buccleuch named 
me, and she said with a gracious, beaming smile, ‘I am 


* These indications of the truly royal hospitality of Windsor Castle 
have been inserted in contradistinction to the woll-known recollections 
of the correspondent, relating to the order of things in the provisional 
royal residence called the Queen’s Lodge, in the time of King George 
III. and Queen Charlotte, in the years 1784 to 1787. 


LET. 50] THE KING AT CARLTON TERRACE. b) 


pleased to see you;’ then, after a few moments’ speaking 
to the King, she took his arm and moved on, ‘God save the 
Queen’ having begun to sound at the same moment from 
the Waterloo Gallery, where the Royal dinner has always 
taken place since the King has been here. Lord Hadding- 
ton led me to dinner. The scene was such as fairy tales 
describe, in magnificence. Nothing was wanting but a 
little more youth and beauty among the ladies to make the 
spectacle complete: only Miss Cavendish (now Countess 
awdor) I thought pretty. 

As we expected the King in Carlton Terrace, we could not 
remain for the ten o’clock breakfast of the ladiesin waiting, 
but obtained all we wanted in our own rooms, and reached 
London by the eight o’clock train. Great was the fatigue, 
and greater the anxiety of getting all things ready, and as 
far as possible right. In the impossibility of knowing 
whether all turned out well or not (for those in the heat and 
heart of the engagement know little but what happens close 
to themselves) I will hope the best; and at least I am sure 
the object was attained of the King’s seeing, as he desired, 
many: who otherwise could not have had access to him. 
After the luncheon the King came up to the drawing-room, 
and there was pleased to notice those younger children of 
mine who had not before been in his presence, besides two 
sons grown up, and by degrees the guests; among others 
(not to name many Germans), Carlyle the historian, Dr. 
Arnold from Rugby, and Archdeacon Hare, were brought 
up to him by Bunsen. Moscheles having been commissioned 
by the King to purchase for him a pianoforte of Erard’s, it 
had been brought to this house for him to hear, and Mos- 
cheles was invited to display its powers. A short movement 
was played by Moscheles and Neukomm on pianoforte and 
organ, and we wished the King could have heard more of 
‘ that; but the time was short at best for all that had to be 
brought into it, and was in part occupied by an audience 
granted to two Dutch statesmen, who came unexpectedly. 


6 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1842 


On Monday, January 31, I was at Stafford House, where 
the King accepted an invitation to dinner from the Duke 
and Duchess, whose manner of receiving me was in harmony 
with their letters, and that is saying all. After the Duchess 
had granted me more words and moments, at first entrance, 
than I should have deemed it possible for her to spare, she 
presented me to the Duchess of Gloucester, by whom I was 
greeted as ‘ the daughter of her old friend ;’ then to Lady 
Elizabeth, whom I found charming even beyond the idea 
that I had formed of her, as everything really good always 
is. I was taken to dinner by Lord John Russell, whom I 
found a very agreeable neighbour, in no common way: he 
is one of the persons with whom itis possible to get directly 
out of the emptiness of phrases. The appearance of the 
house was wonderfully beautiful, the staircase in particular, 
where a band played all the evening, concluding with a com- 
position of Prince Radziwill’s, never before performed in 
England, as a mark of attention to the King. The Duke of 
Sussex invited me to the luncheon he was to give on the 
following day to the King. The way to Kensington Palace 
was lined by school-children with flags, and a vast crowd of 
people. I was received first by the Duke of Sussex himself, 
and he took me into the library to the Duchess of Gloucester 
and Princess Sophia, who greeted me most kindly, and 
made me sit between them; when afterwards they rose to 
speak to somebody else, I took the opportunity of gliding 
away and placing myself at a modest distance. Lord 
Lansdowne came up to speak to me, and persons without 
end—there is nothing like standing within the Bude-light 
of royalty to make one conspicuous, and sharpen perceptions 
and recollections! At table I sat down between Humboldt 
and Lord Palmerston, whom I found very ready to converse. 
The Duke’s speech to the King was, I hear, accurately given 
in the ‘ Morning Post.’ The King, on being asked by the 
Duke for the toast, gave—‘ To the greatest, most illustrious, 
and most amiable lady—great by her vast dominions, her 


Er. 50) THE KING’S VISIT TO LAMBETH. 7 


ancient descent, and most of all by the qualities of her heart 
and mind—to the health of Queen Victoria!’ This was the 
sense—the words may not be accurate. The moment the 
dinner was over a vast silver ewer made its appearance, 
which the Duke of Sussex took, and, rising, presented it to 
the King, who dipped his napkin in the rose-water, starting 
up with a demonstration of horror at being so served, and, 
most dexterously taking the ewer from the Duke, offered it 
to him in return, after which it was carried round to each 
guest. The whole was an animated féte, admirably arranged 
—the Duke’s colossal Highlander adding originality, if not 
charm, to the whole, by perambulating the dinner-table at 
the close with his deafening bagpipe. 

On Wednesday, February 2, the King’s visit to Lambeth 
was perhaps the most suitable and most agreeable to him 
of any that he has yet made. The magnificent building, 
the historical recollections, the perfection of style, well 
understood, the company so properly chosen—bishops and 
clergy, and few besides, no ladies but one near relation of 
Mrs. Howley and Mrs. Blomfield: everything pleased the 
King, and he enjoyed himself, and sat after luncheon was 
over, some time, talking to the Archbishop. He took leave 
of Lord Ashley most kindly, saying he must come and visit 
him at Berlin. At six I got home, and at ten dressed for 
the Duchess of Cambridge’s, where the King had dined, 
and whither he returned after midnight, having enjoyed in 
the meantime the ‘Merry Wives of Windsor,’ and a most 
heart-cheering reception. 


Extracts from Contemporary Letters. 
London: Monday, 14th February, 1842. 


The complication of Bunsen’s illness, following directly 
on the King’s departure, has only increased the difficulty of 
mastering contending elements, and of spending time ac- 
cording to any plan, determination, or inclination. He is 
all at once better, sooner than I expected, from the degree 


R MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


of fever and cough: the difficulty will be to prevent his being 
again harassed and over-excited, for the late indisposition 
had no other cause. 


Bunsen to Miss Davenport Bron:ley. 
London (4, Carlton Terrace): 15th February, 1842. 


Imagine that Neukomm has contrived to find ten most 
excellent professional performers, Moscheles at their head, 
who executed here the other evening the whole music of the 
Passion Week—and so much to their own delight as well as 
ours, that they have offered to repeat the performance on 
March 4. It was so like ome, and like home! Since that 
day I begin to feel at home in our beautiful house. 


Extracts from Contemporary Letters. 
22nd February, 1842. 


Were it possible to overcome and manage the incon- 
gruous mass that presses down one’s very soul, how many are 
the persons and things, the-best and most interesting, to be 
found in London! But one has but one life, and the day 
and hour cannot be made to carry double and treble. My 
internal ejaculation is daily—how long ?—when shall I get 
out, and get the children out of a place in which I feel not 
that we ever can live what can be called lifeP And first 
and foremost, when can I get Bunsen out? ... 

We are to go to Lord Bexley’s, Foot’s Cray Place, in 
Kent, on Easter Tuesday ; this was the third invitation, and 
I am glad Bunsen has accepted it, because rest and country 
air are much needed by him. 


Bunsen to Kestner. 
[Translation.] London, Downing Street: 13th March, 1842. 


I write these lines in the antechamber, while I am wait- 
ing, and can thus reply to your dear letter most literally by 
return of post. You have heartily scolded me, but still with 


Zar. 504 LETTER TO KESTNER. - @g 


affection, and, according to appearances, you were in the 
right. Your former letter arrived just when the King was 
here—but with yours came legions of other papers, and when 
three weeks ago I began (after a short illness brought on 
by over-exertion) to arrange them, I had first, about a hun- 
dred letters to the King to reply to, according to his direc- 
tions, which I completed only the day before yesterday— 
and then, your letter could not be found! neither by myself 
nor my wife. So, in the quiet of to-morrow (Sunday), a new 
hunt shall be made. 

Thus stands the case—I could not answer what I had not 
read—lI could not read what was mislaid: and for the mis- 
laying there were ‘ circonstances atténuantes,’ which I beg 
you, like the French jury, to take into account, and absolve 
me from the extreme penalty. For you have really brought 
a regular accusation against me. Believe me, that I never 
forget, even when I do not write and may seem not to*exert 
myself: but where nothing can be done, che vuol che gli 
dica ? 

I should like to give you an idea of our life. I have again 
in this place, as I had in Rome, the most remarkable situa- 
tion, and acknowledged the finest, for my dwelling-place : on 
the spot where Carlton House, the residence of George IV., 
formerly stood, which was pulled down, ‘not to interfere 
with a great plan of embellishment :’ and thence the name 
of Carlton House Terrace. . . . The distances therefore to 
the Ministers cost me little time, but the waiting for an in- 
terview, even when appointment has been made, costs much. 
Matters of business are innumerable here—visits and note- 
writing are a real distress: and, in one word, the labour to 
be accomplished is enormous. .. . ° 

You will imagine that general relations to society 
are favourable, when one has started with one’s King! It 
was @ joy indeed to my German heart to see him receive the 
homage of a free nation with such royal grace and dignity, 
and his own original supremacy of intelligence. Queen 


10 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


Victoria is most engaging—Prince Albert, amiable and full 
of tact as ever. Friend Neukomm leaves us to goto France 
—the same high-minded, attaching philosopher and man as 
ever. 


The last week in May, and the first in June formed 
a period of respite from the tumult of London life, 
and Bunsen with his family breathed once again freely 
on the cliffs of Ramsgate, although Bunsen himself 
could spare but a small part of that fortnight, the 
arrival of a courier from Berlin having soon called 
him away from the sunshine, the sea-breezes, and the 
green meadows. 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Julius Hare. (On the death of 
Dr. Arnold.) 


London: Sunday morning, 19th June, 1842. 


My pear Frrenp,—My heart has been with you, as I am 
sure yours has been with me. I returned last night from 
Rugby. O, what is the death of a great and good man! 
What distraction (humanly) and yet what consolation! 
Read the enclosed—I add nothing. All who saw him during 
the last month were struck by something more than usually 
heavenly-minded and awfully unearthly. . . . He has left 
the new volume of Sermons just filled; and it appears that 
it contains some of the finest he ever preached. His third 
volume of ‘ Rome’ is completed to the fortieth chapter. An- 
other colossal torso of Roman History! ... But there is a 
still more sacred trust. He wrote in 1838 a book on the 
Church, to prove, in his way, the general priesthood of all 
Christians, as the doctrine of the Gospel and of the Fathers, 
and the groundwork of the Church. The whole may form 
a volume of no more than 150 pages; butitis pure gold. It 
has formed the groundwork of long debates, as it in part ori- 
ginated in serious conversation and correspondence between 
us, in many @ hallowed hour. 


Er. 50] LINES BY BUNSEN ON DR. ARNOLD. 11 


Bunsen on Arnold, 1842.* (Translated by Anna Gurney, 1852.) 


iL 
The fight of faith undaunted 
Thou to the end hast fought, 
Whilst foretaste harsh of evil 
Thine own experience brought ; 
Thou saw’st the doom impending 
That might not pass away, 
Hast mark’d the sun rise lurid 
Before the carnage day. 


II. 


Then grew on thee the longing 
That lays the storm of hfe, 
In love, in pious trusting, 
Thy heart reposed from strife : 
How gladly then, our champion, 
Didst thou the angel greet, 
Sent, to thy home to guide thee, 
Thine habitation meet ! 


Ill. 


And now, the surging tumult 
Ts still’d beside thy grave, 
Whilst thou, a brilliant beacon, 
Yet tow’rest o’er the wave: 
From seeds in youthful bosoms, 

By thee profusely sown, 
The germs of holy purpose 
And noble deed have grown. 


* Tor the original German lines, see Appendix. 


12 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


IV. 

Apart from earth’s wild turmoil 
Thou calmly tak’st thy rest, 
The worst of sorrows spared thee, 
Vouchsafed of joys the best: 

The mystery of ages 
Unveiléd to thy sight, 

Each sequence clear before thee 
In God’s unchanging light. 


V. 
And we would still be waging 
The warfare thou hast waged, 
With hope and love and fealty 
On Virtue’s part engaged : 
Eternity before us, 
Eternal truth our end,— 
For this, our life’s brief moment 
How freely would we spend ! 


The correspondence of Bunsen with his Royal 
master, should it ever reach the light, would record 
the main subjects of interest in this year as well as 
in many before and after. From 1842 date the be- 
ginnings of many friendly connections, which grew 
and strengthened as time wore on; among which 
that with Florence Nightingale claims the first notice. 
Bunsen and his family met, and from the first valued 
her, on a few occasions, when nothing occurred pecu- 
liarly to rouse and reveal the soul which subsisted in 
her, in the fulness of its energy, or the powers which 
only waited for an opportunity to be developed; but 
her calm dignity of deportment, self-conscious with- 
out either shyness or presumption, and the few words 
indicating deep reflection, just views, and clear per- 


Er. 50] FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE. 13 


ceptions of life and its obligations, and the trifling 
acts showing forgetfulness of self and devotedness to 
others, were of sufficient force to bring conviction to 
the observer, even before it had been proved by all 
outward experience, that she was possessed of all that 
moral greatness which her subsequent course of action, 
suffering, and of influential power, has displayed. 
The date cannot easily be ascertained when she first 
began to ask the opinion of Bunsen on the ques- 
tion which occupied her mind, ‘ What can an indi- 
vidual do, towards lifting the load of suffering from 
the helpless and the miserable ? ’—but a correspond- 
ence which yet exists (though not with Bunsen per- 
sonally) shows that she had already thought and 
observed much with regard to one of those needs of 
humanity with which her name has since been con- 
nected. The excellent Dr. Sieveking (now physician 
to their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess of 
Wales) had spent much of his time, gratuitously, in 
attending to, and investigating the condition of, poor- 
houses and hospitals; and in the full consciousness 
of one of the awful evils which almost nullifies the 
benefit of hospitals, the vice and incompetence of the 
usual attendants on the sick, and, on the other hand, 
of the large amount of unemployed power among the 
female inmates of workhouses—he was anxious that 
ladies might be induced to combine for the purpose 
of giving help on both sides, by the transference of 
willing and capable females from the idieness of poor- 
houses to a sphere of well-remunerated usefulness. 
His reflections were submitted to Florence Nightin- 
gale, the result of whose considerations upon them 


14 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 1842 


was, that from her acquaintance with the inmates of 
poorhouses, not a single individual among them, 
however willing to obey a call to another condition, 
would be found competent to fulfil the arduous duties 
of the hospital without a regular training; and for 
such training a place and persons themselves in- 
structed were indispensable. It was owing to Bun- 
sen’s suggestion, that, long after this date, Florence 
Nightingale went to Kaiserswerth, not only to study 
the system, but to serve through a practical appren- 
ticeship in each and every subdivision of the labours 
there performed, previous to her arduous study at 
Paris among the ‘ petites Sceurs de Charité.’ 

The letters of Bunsen have often borne testimony 
to the benefit and the relief he experienced from a 
work of the highest art, such as the successful per- 
formance of u piece of Shakespeare, in clearing the 
mind of care and restoring elasticity to the’ over- 
strained powers; and he often had opportunity, during 
the managership of Mr. Macready, of enjoying that 
recreation and adding his meed of applause to the 
completeness of the entire arrangements, as well as the 
excellence of individual representation—for instance, 
in the case of Macready’s Brutus (as, in later years, 
of Lear), in which he felt that the conceptions of 
Shakespeare were made more perceptible than the 
mere dead letter could render them. Morethan once 
did he enjoy Handel’s ‘Acis and Galatea,’ then brought 
out in the full perfection of the combined fine arts, as 
each could be brought to bear on the performance. 

With the opera stage Bunsen had no patience, and 
though he visited it in London, in attendance on the 


Zar. 50} DRAMATIC REPRESENTATIONS. Th 


Prince of Prussia, even Jenny Lind (although he 
entirely felt her power of grace as well as voice) 
failed to reconcile him to that form of dramatic re- 
presentation against which he peculiarly protested, as 
being the betrayal of a good cause and the carica- 
ture of a kind of composition which he acknowledged 
to be founded in reason, aud desired to see revived by 
a real master of combined verse and harmony. The 
ballet he considered a thing of unmixed evil, and its 
highest and most applauded efforts as the exag¢gera- 
tion of ungracefulness; nor could he refrain from 
comments in sorrow and anger on the power of 
fashion, which draws the modest and the pure into 
the multitude of spectators of a different class. 
Often did he wonder, in this respect, at the contra- 
dictions in English life:—no difference perceived in 
the tendency and effect of styles of art—conceived in 
conditions of mind and with intentions and purposes 
the most various :—the tinkling strains, addressed 
to the sensual side of human consciousness, being 
allowed to find their way into houses where ‘ what- 
soever things are pure and lovely’ are striven after, 
and every approach to evil and corruption in other 
directions strenuously avoided ; the inmates of which 
would in no case enter a theatre, and yet will suffer 
in the decoration of their apartments objects utterly 
unsuited to their habitual tone of mind and tenour of 
life. 

Bunsen urged upon Mr. Macready the practica- 
bility of bringing out ‘ Judas Maccabeus’ and other 
oratorios of Handel with scenic decoration, and when 
he found him not disinclined to adopt the idea, but 


16 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


only apprehensive that the public would consider such 
representation as desecration, Bunsen managed to 
gain the sanction of Bishop Blomfield, who raised no 
objection to the plan, on the ground that the Macca- 
bean history formed part of the Apocryphal books ; 
and there actually was a probability of this plan 
being executed, had not Mr. Macready soon after re- 
signed the managership of the theatre. _ 

When the annual lull came over the rough waves 
of London life, Bunsen found his comparative leisure 
absorbed, not only by the unceasing succession of 
public business, which he still had to encounter alone 
(the younger Baron Canitz, then Counsellor of Lega- 
tion, having obtained a renewal of leave of absence), 
but by the preparation of the second edition of his 
‘Hymn and Prayer Book,’ first published in 1831, 
when, the entire edition having been immediately 
sold, a reprint was etrnestly asked for by the pub- 
lisher, Perthes, of Gotha. The account which has 
been given of events and avocations since that date 
may render the non-compliance of Bunsen with the 
friendly demand intelligible, without reconciling the 
minds of his friends, and those of the cause, to 
the result of the delay, which in a great measure 
defeated the end Bunsen had proposed to himself, 
and to which he devoted the freshest period of his 
life and faculties. The first edition met with so much 
favour, that had a second edition in a more popular 
form and of diminished size followed upon it, the 
matter might have pervaded the public mind, instead 
of being confined to the knowledge of a few; and 
Germans might have accepted the evidence brought 


Et. 50] SECOND EDITION OF HIS HYMN BOOK. 17 


forward to prove their neglect of one of the principal 
glories of their nation—the possession of the finest 
devotional poetry in existence. But the purpose of 
republication, which Bunsen unceasingly entertained, 
was not effected, because he contemplated a larger 
amount of alteration than others deemed necessary, 
and therefore put off the commencement of revision, 
in the hope of being enabled to look forward to a 
time when he might devote to the new edition his 
own undivided attention. This was, in the summer of 
1842, as far from practicable as it ever had been; and 
Bunsen was obliged to confine himself to the general 
arrangement and supervision, leaving a great amount 
of detail to the numerous, intelligent, and indefati- 
gable assistants, who were his household guests and 
inmates during nearly two summer months. It 
must be confessed that the omission of many much- 
cherished portions of the first edition, and the re- 
taining and insertion of much that must be termed 
ultra-dogmatical in the second, was not done in the 
spirit of Bunsen—a spirit thoroughly coinciding with 
that of the ‘ Union,’ for which his late Royal master 
had earnestly laboured, and in which the members 
of the Lutheran and Calvinistic Confessions might 
consent to worship and communicate together. The 
work in its present form was straightway sent to the 
so-called Rauhe Haus, near Hamburg, to be printed 
(at the press which formed part of the various esta- 
blishments of the admirable reformatory institution 
of Wichern) without the name of Bunsen, although 
his authorship was no secret. But though Bunsen’s 
‘Gesang und Gebetbuch’ was formally introduced only 
VOL. II. C 


18 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


at Jerusalem, in Rome, in a congregation at Liver- 
pool, at the German Hospital at Dalston, and in 
some colonies of Australia, yet the whole of that 
immense impression has in process of years been 
exhausted. Meanwhile the hope shall be indulged, 
that much of what he desired to bring home to the 
hearts of his countrymen may yet be, however si- 
lently, percolating the mass of the German-speaking 
populations, which are spread abroad among the 
nations. The work never met with any official notice 
or recommendation: and the desire of Bunsen, 
earnestly expressed, was well understood, that no 
support of authority was in any way to promote its 
circulation. The King generously assigned 1500 
thalers towards the expenses of printing, or, in other 
words, presented to Bunsen copies to the amount of 
that sum. *. 

The presence of Lepsius in London, as the guest of 
Bunsen (for the sake of a complete examination of 
the Egyptian monuments in the British Museum, 
previous to the expedition to the East, which he was 
about to undertake on Bunsen’s recommendation by 
the command and at the expense of the Prussian 
government), furnished to Bunsen the much desired 
opportunity for prosecuting his favourite study, and 
for carrying on the complicated system of enquiry 
resulting in his work on Egypt. He accomplished 
this in the manner most delightful to him, in the 
way of a daily conference with one whose zeal in the 
common pursuit equalled his own, thus procuring for 
himself that complete refreshment which became a 
necessity after the long course of unremitting official 


Er. 51] VISIT TO HERSTMONCEADUX. 19 


work; so that he needed, as little as he desired, to 
absent himself during the (so called) dull season, 
from his delightful London residence, which entirely 
satisfied all his requirements. 

If, however, his own health as yet stood the test 
of town air, that was not the case with his children, 
and it had gradually become clear that, used as they 
had been to a purer atmosphere, the confining them 
to that of London was out of the question. When, 
therefore, his wife departed in the last week of 
July to take the family (for the sake of two among 
the number) to the baths of Aix in Savoy, Bunsen 
combined a search after places in the country with a 
long-desired and promised visit to his beloved friend, 
Julius Hare, at Herstmonceaux, in Sussex, finding the 
desired object where least expected. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


[Translation.} | London: Sunday morning, 28th August, 1842. 


Once more I have a quiet day and hour in which to write 
to you. Yesterday at one o’clock Abeken departed, to hasten 
over the sea; the book he carried with him, our common 
work (sixty quarto pages of mine, and an equal number of 
his), was not finished till Wednesday evening, the 24th, 
being the last labour of the remarkable year of life just 
closed on that day. As last year, so was August 25 this 
year one of the busiest and most important of my life. I 
had six political reports to write, among which one was 
perhaps the most weighty I ever wrote, with twelve others 
of inferior rank, one accompanied by forty samples to 
serve for comparison of qualitv and price between English 
and German manufactures—a remarkable juxtaposition, 
for the possibility of which I am indebted to Sir John 
Guest. Thus did the newly-beginning year of life again 

c 2 


20 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


bring together, distinctly and strangely, the two poles of 
the orb of existence in which I am placed; a thread of 
connection extending from Zion in politics to the glove and 
stocking interest! Finishing seemed impossible, but yet it 
was accomplished. Among the twelve was a report on the 
Casa Tarpea (Archeological Institute, hospital, &c., on the 
Capitol) superintended by Braun; a detailed statement of 
the needs and requirements of the undertaking was made 
out by Abeken, and accompanied by three separate letters 
from myself to the King—the proposal and petition signi- 
fying payment of all the debts of the house, and an appoint- 
ment from January 1, 1843, of a regular ‘ House-father and 
House-mother’ (as we call the steward and matron), in 
the persons of the organist Schulz and his bride elect, who 
would live for and in the daily and hourly management of 
all household concerns. This plan (which I fully believe 
the King will graciously accept) implies a peculiarly per- 
sonal gratification (Angebinde) to myself—as the confiden- 
tial reply of Schulz, the organist, to Abeken’s private hint 
of the project, was that ‘the execution of such a design 
would make the happiness of two hearts.’ You will imagine 
how this providential dispensation of blessing comes home 
tome personally! May I ever keep it in thankful memory ! 
At half-past six all was done; and at seven we sat down 
to aremarkable parting-meal :—Abeken to Berlin,—Lepsius 
with Weidenbusch to Africa,—Sydow, Kuhlo, Stip, Maurice, 
and Prentiss,—the latter departing next day to America, 
an admirable man, who has shown me much attachment. 
Having in cheerfulness eaten and drank, we removed up- 
stairs for singing, as a finale, the ‘German Fatherland’ 
and the ‘Song of Blucher,’ until the hour, a quarter before 
twelve, converted mirth into the solemnity of farewell. 
From twelve to one o’clock I wrote the three letters yet 
wanting for Abeken (to the King, to the Minister von 
Thile, &c.), and let him depart, with heartiest wishes for 
every blessing. 


fer, 51] RESIDENCE AT HERSTMONCEAUX. 21 


I am thankful for all that has been realised, and for all 
that might be added to the picture—Zion and much be- 
sides—which could not enter my mind three years ago. To 
God be the glory! I willalso thank Him for my being fixed 
in the land of the mighty Unicorn, in the wave-encircled 
dwelling of the highly-favoured nation. Early on Saturday 
I began the revision of the Psalm Book, and read with 
Kuhlo in the Hebrew Psalms cxxxi. to cl. . . Here have I 
written a long letter, without saying that I have received 
your consent, and have engaged Herstmonceaux! Yet, 
what joy did your letter cause me, and how I thank God, 
that you do not merely agree, but that you feel as I felt 
when I first perceived the possibility! It seems a dream, 
so fabulously desirable is the whole. So by October 25 
you will have house and garden at your disposal, sea-air 
outside your windows, one of the finest ruins of the middle 
ages within a walk, and Hare for our pastor ! 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
London: 6th September, 1842. 


. . » London : 10th October.—I must thank you with a line 
for your kind and maternal reply to my letter,—I cannot 
say how thankful I am that you feel satisfied we are right 
in going to Herstmonceaux. ... It will do your heart 
good to read Hare’s letter, which I enclose: as well as one 
from that excellent man, Dr. Pritchard,—to whom I hope 
I may have been of use, in causing (through Lord Ashley) 
the mind of the Lord Chancellor to be directed towards 
him, with reference to a place of importance. 

In a letter of 23rd September.—Dr. Pritchard has been 
named one of the two physicians who are to inspect all the 
lunatic asylums in England. 


22: MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


Extract from a Letter of Bunsen’s of September 1842. 
(Uncertain to whom addressed.) 


(Translation. | 


. One thing I must beg of you: cast not away 
the yoke of Christ,—it is not only ‘an easy yoke,’ but of 
force to raise you above all the sufferings of earth :—from 
it can no one withdraw unpunished, for the false freedom 
of the age is spiritual death. I do not utter this by way of 
instruction, but as a profession of faith: by the help of 
which, all other things become equal or indifferent. 


Bunsen to his Wefe. 
[Translation.] 
Carlton Terrace: Tuesday, 20th September, 1842; 8 a.m. 

. I begin my day’s work,—after a walk on the 
terrace with the sun rising, and the lamps expiring around, 
under the clearest sky,—with a line intended to greet your 
arrival on the Belgian coast. You will come, alas ! into the 
midst of the equinoctial giles, but the Lord can conduct 
you and yours as safely through the waves on the 24th 
as on the lst of September. You will find us well (please 
God),—your two boys, myself, and the friends. The beauty 
and charm of London in August and September belong to 
the blessings generally unknown and unacknowledged. A 
delicious repose, and yet all the advantages of a well- 
arranged social existence, as in the whirling time called.‘ the 
season.’ 

The days spent at Norwich (Monday we travelled thither 
through the night, and Saturday we came back in the day) 
were rich ininterest. J had taken the liberty of quartering 
my two sons at Keswick Hall, with Mr. and Mrs. Hudson 
Gurney (as I wrote to you, I had made his acquaintance, 
and received an invitation for myself to his country resi- 
dence)—they were cordially received, and treated (as we | 
say in Germany) ‘as the apple of the eye.’ I too was not 


fet. 51] VISIT TO THE BISHOP OF NORWICH. 23° 


ill off at the Bishop’s Palace. Lord Northampton, Lady 
Willams, Miss Trotter, Mrs. Baring, and many other 
guests were there. The mode of life of the Stanleys is 
dignified and rational. The music was very fine—‘ the 
Creation,’—Spohr’s ‘ Fall of Babylon’ (a musical drama, 
called oratorio)—and ‘Samson.’ The text of the latter 
had been modified by Mr. Edward Taylor, so as to coincide 
with and comprehend that of Milton almost entirely, incor- 
porating the newly-introduced portions by interspersing 
other Handelian passages, selected from his forgotten works, 
whether operas, or small and little-noticed oratorios. Ac- 
cording to Mr. Taylor, Handel had adopted a movement 
from Palestrina, and worked out a passage of ‘Samson’ 
upon that guiding-thread; this suggested and gave oc- 
casion for the introduction of a hymn, founded upon an in- 
expressibly fine conception of Palestrina’s. Nobody was 
aware of this, and all declared it to be the most striking 
part ; the Bishop caused it to be repeated, and the whole 
assembly (above 2,000 in number) rose and remained 
standing, as during devotional pieces. After this piece, the 
greatest effect was produced by a short chorus, which no 
one had heard before: and that was, equally from the 
Septime, borrowed from Carissimo. 

Abeken writes from Berlin that all are satisfied to whom 
he was allowed to communicate the MS. My proposal as 
to the Law of Divorce is vehemently contended against in 
the Cabinet Council: and itis believed that this will give 
occasion for the King’s calling me to Berlin, when I should 
be ‘obliged to come.’ Je n’en vois pas la nécessité—that 1s, 
I see not any possibility of my aiding the good cause—the 
only gain would be to remove from the King’s mind all the 
deceptions which he makes to himself about my position at 
Berlin, and the yet greater entanglement into which he 
would bring me by such a summons. They have in writing 
my unchangeable opinion on the subject. Nitzsch, at 
Berlin, is entirely agreed in the contents of the MsS.— 


24 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


which was as little expected by, as it has been agreeable to, 
the King and to Eichhorn. | 


Bunsen to his Wife. (Addressed to Herstmonceauz Place.) 
[Translation.] Drayton Manor: Tuesday, 20th December, 1842. 


I had intended to send you a journal of ‘ Three Days at 
Drayton Manor ’—about this delicious and important stay 
with that truly great man. I should have remained here 
till Friday—were it not for the Committee I had sum- 
moned. You shall at least have this line to thank you 
for your dear letter, and to say that I shall return, D.V., 
on Christmas Eve, expecting the carriage to meet me at 
Lewes. 

Alas! dear Lady Denbigh! she called at our door the 
last day of her life—her birthday. She died, after her 
infant was born, in convulsions caused by pressure on the 
brain. 

It is grievous not to be able to supply from memory, 
out of Bunsen’s abundant communications by word of 
mouth, the want of the intended ‘journal.’ Many 
superior men were among the guests, and the conver- 
sation was Incomparably interesting. It was Bunsen’s 
desire and aim to elicit from Sir Robert Peel such 
sentences on matters touching the weal or woe of 
nations, as he had the peculiar gift of uttering, when 
the right question had been asked, in a few words of 
weighty import. He said, in reference to the King 
of Prussia, ‘I hope he will be ready to concede to 
the wishes of his subjects—it is well to make conces- 
sions while they yet can be made :—many Sovereigns 
have had cause to lament having let the hour of con- 
cession go by—which returns not.’ Bunsen observed 
upon Sir Robert Peel’s rare power of condensing 


Zin. 61] VISIT TO SIR ROBERT PEEL. 25 


enquiry into a question, the answer to which, if duly 
made, would be voluminous. 

The party were among the listeners to a sermon 
of the Rev. Hugh Stowell, preached in Tamworth 
Church. All joined in astonishment and admiration, 
whether matter or manner were considered: but 
neither Sir Robert Peel nor his guests, with the ex- 
ception of Bunsen, could bring themselves to believe 
that the sermon could be extempore, as they con- 
sidered that a composition, so faultless and yet so 
forcible, could not have originated but in an hour of 
quiet and seclusion, when it must have been carefully 
written down and committed to memory. Bunsen 
was better acquainted than the rest of the party with 
the effect of such practice, it being nearly universal 
in Germany, where congregations do not allow of 
the reading of a manuscript in the pulpit. He 
felt the manner of Stowell to be throughout con- 
tradictory of such a supposition,—arguing (but in 
vain) to convince the parliamentary orators that 
could they but attribute to the preachers of Christian 
truth as entire a possession of their subject, as 
great a warmth of feeling, and as thorough a con- 
viction, as they knew by experience to be the stimu- 
lus of eloquence in their own case, they would have 
no difficulty in crediting the spontaneity of ‘d’alta 
facundia inesauribil vena.’ Sir Robert Peel insisted 
that the position of the man who was called upon to 
treat subjects, the highest and holiest—not only to 
set forth the truth, but persuade others to accept it 
—was very different from that of one speaking on 
worldly interests ;—‘ if in Parliament one chances to 


26 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1842 


use the wrong word, or an insufficient expression, one 
may correct it,—if one has formed a sentence awk- 
wardly, one may correct it in progress of speaking ;— 
but how should a man be thus at his ease, and not 
hesitate when treating of sacred and spiritual things?’ 
Nothing more can be given as an authentic record of 
the conversation in question : but they who knew the 
mind of Bunsen will believe that his reply will have 
marked to the honoured objector that his attributing 
greater anxiety of mind to the preacher could only 
apply to him on the supposition of his having but a 
limited freedom of utterance, and of a possible con- 
sciousness of the boundaries drawn by forms of belief 
or theological circumscription ;—a condition which 
would necessitate premeditation and the weighing of 
words. But the preacher whose intellect is fraught 
with the knowledge, as his heart with the fervour 
and reality, of religion, niay fearlessly draw from:the 
depth of his own heart, believing that the Spirit 
which ‘ gave utterance’ will guide that utterance. 
The great statesman and Bunsen felt a mutual at- 
traction towards each other, and the fact of their so 
rarely meeting only proves the incompleteness of this 
our human existence, in which even the most active 
and well-ordered course of life will be found on retro- 
spection to resemble a web, the threads of which we 
have been unable to carry on to the end according to 
the design proposed. It is highly probable that on 
the occasion of this visit at Drayton, some word of 
Bunsen’s, or certainly his wonderful earnestness of 
manner, must have struck the mind of Sir Robert 
Peel, and sunk deep into his heart, to emerge again 


Zr. 51] LETTER TO HIS WIFE. 27 


at the hour of death; for in 1850, when the sufferer 
was almost past speaking, he is reported to have 
demanded three times that Bunsen should be sum- 
moned to his bedside. As the meeting was pre- 
vented by the rapid approach of the last moment the 
feeling which dictated this most affecting call must 
remain a mystery. 

It was at this time that when an allusion was made 
to hardness of hearing, Sir R. Peel mentioned his 
own unceasing inconvenience, not to say suffering, 
from a sound in his ears like that of boiling water 
—which began in consequence of the report of a 
fowling-piece, going off unawares close to his head 
very early in his life; and from which he had no 
respite. When Bunsen commented on the peculiar 
hardship attending such an infirmity in the case of 
the parliamentary debater, bound not to lose or mis- 
conceive a word, Sir Robert Peel admitted the effort 
of keeping up unbroken attention to be severe. 

In the calm and solemn brightness of Christmas 
days, in family intercourse, with the precious addition 
of the society of Archdeacon Hare and of the widow 
of the Rev. Augustus Hare, the year 1842 closed to 
Bunsen and his family, in their beloved refuge at 
Herstmonceaux. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Herstmonceauz.) 
(Translation. ] London: Sunday morning, 12th March, 1843. 
_ Tome the case stands clear before the mind’s eye that 
you will outlive me, and be called upon to guide the dear 
children further in life; this thought is firm in my mind 
these many years, although not from the very beginning. 
The Lord order the event according to His holy will! But 


28 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1843 


IT will this day make my will; a short one, for, God be 
thanked! I have little to dispose of, and what I have is 
yours; of that I shall speak no more. But what I have to 
say to you, in consciousness of our indestructible bond of 
love, is that your letter has caused me to look deeply and 
sorrowfully into my own heart. . . The wheel of life whirls 
round, and we with it, expecting that the motion will some 
day slacken, and that then life may be ordered anew, and 
omissions may be made good. But real wisdom consists in 
seizing the flying moment, and in pressing upon it the seal 
of the eternal and enduring; that is the great course of 
mora] endeavour under which life receives its due form, 
like the bleck of marble under the hand of the sculptor. 
The eternal and enduring here on earth consists in the 
morally-artistic use of time. This is but another form of 
expression for justification by faith. The amount of what 
is done, formed, accomplished, matters little so long as it is 
done in faith in that which is Unseen and only True. In 
this way, sanctification ig,the highest expression for the 
creative completeness of the Spirit’s impress. Rightly 
understood, all these considerations lead us back to the 
consciousness that of ourselves we can do nothing good, 
and that self and reference to self, me and mime, are the 
spoiling of all, inasmuch as the proper and peculiar work of 
God is attributed to one’s self; faultiness, therefore sin, 
cleaves to all that we do: but m Him, who is without fault, 
it will be pardoned in us. We must ever be brought back 
to the conviction that nothing but evil comes of our self- 
righteousness, thus only may we be kept in the reality of 
faith. All urging and hastening helps not: the time of 
quiet comes not, except we have it within us. The word 
of the Lord must be spoken over the waves of life, that 
they may be stayed: but then they are stayed indeed. 
Help me to pray, beloved, that this spirit of unselfishness 
(Entselbstung) and of tranquillity be granted to me, that I 
may perceive what belongs to my peace; what I can be to 


Er. 61} DR. PUSEY. 29 


you, and especially what I can do for our beloved children, 
and therewith cause them to feel the love that I bear to 
them in my heart’s depth. Our hfe in its present torn 
condition has many disadvantages, but that is not to be 
dwelt upon ; for it has on the other hand great advantages. 
So it is also with our frequent separation ; it is a cause of 
pain and trial, which implies its being good and wholesome 
for us. . . I will not to-day write on other subjects, but 
bless you in spirit, as being your gratefully faithful—C., 


Bunsen to One of his Sones. 


[Translution. | London: 3rd July, 1843. 

The day before yesterday appeared a work which will 
mark an epoch in the Church history of England.* 

9th July.—In order to seize the connection clearly between 
the sermon and the commentary, place before your mind the 
simple question of the Reformation—lIs the Godhead—latens 
deitus—in the consecrated wafer, which by the consecration 
is made the present body P—or is the bread and wine simply 
nothing, either before or after the prayer of consecration, 
except in and with the soul and body of the believing re- 
ceiver—in which connection it may be termed the symbolical 
or substantial body, according to the school that affixes the 
term ? 

Whosoever maintains the former is a Romanist, a servant 
of the Mass, and is under the obligation to take all conse- 
quences. 

But that is asserted everywhere in the sermon,—just be- 
cause without this assumption it 1s unintelligible. And 
why is this assumption at the bottom of the whole? Be- 
cause, instead of the living God and the Eternal Word— 
whose utterances are spirit and life—Dr. Pusey invests the 
priesthood, called by him the Church, with a magic power 
to give or to retain the blessing; therefore to create the 
body and to offer the sacrifice. This can be said in a 


* The well-known sermon by Dr. Pusey. 


30 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


thousand different ways; it was also clearly expressed by 
Luther, when he wrote the principles of defence to be 
maintained in the expected Council: ‘The Mass is the 
Dragon’s tail;’ and it was God’s judgment upon the un- 
happy Romanic humanity, that the Council in question 
confirmed that expression of its prophetic opponent; for 
the words of one of its Decrees are: ‘ Missa est sacrificium 
propitiatorium pro vivis et defunctis :’—the precise inver- 
sion of the death of Christ is the propitiation for all man- 
kind. 
Bunsen to his Wife. 


[Translation. ] London: Saturday, 3rd February, 1844. 


This has been an eventful day. The King has sent for me 
to come to Berlin ‘ for some months, to talk over with him 
many subjects ;’ so Bilow writes, and desires my answer 
to fix how soon I can contemplate availing myself of this 
leave of absence. 

I shall write that I wish ‘to await here the decision to 
be obtained at Constantinople by Sir Stratford Canning 
(about Jerusalem), and to sign the treaty with Venezuela, 
unless His Majesty commands my immediate departure.’ 

I do not think he designs to place me inthe Ministry. I 
do not believe the King can doit. I am still very unpopu- 
lar. He might follow another old plan, that of dividing the 
Ministry, and giving me the department of Public Instruc- 
tion, the only thing I could not refuse. 

This is a sad stroke through all calculations, and the 
separation from you 1s more sad to me than ever it was. 
But still, there is that in me which would either rush into 
the cannon’s mouth, or fight in peace the battles of our 
country or the Church, rather than sit still at a time of crisis 
like the present. And I feel my blood as youthful as it was 
twenty years ago when that chord is touched ; hoping, by 
the mercy of God, to act with more calmness and less of 
self and of self-confidence. 


Br. 52] DEPARTURE FOR BERLIN. 31 


To Archdeacon Julius Hare. 
London: Tuesday, 12th March, 1844. 

...In the sad days of parting (the King’s most 
gracious, but wholly unexpected, order having arrived for 
my going to Berlin) I must address a few lines to you, 
whose image has been continually before my mind since I 
left dear, ever dear Herstmonceaux. [After particulars of 
his writings, and referring the inscription upon Arnold’s 
tomb wholly to Hare’s correction and decision, he con- 
tinues:—] Let me thank you once more for the days of 
happiness which your friendship, unwearied kindness, and 
ever ready help and advice, procured me at Herstmonceaux. 
I look back to those days as to one of the happiest portions 
of my life, and 1 cannot help hoping that Providence will 
bring us once more near together, to exchange thoughts 
and feelings. ... 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


{ Translation. | 
Brussels: Friday, 15th March, 1844, half- past two. 


Twenty-four hours and a half after you and all my friends 
had vanished from my sight, J landed well and cheerful at 
Antwerp. Never have I had more prosperous seafaring 
expeditions than since I have been Envoy to the favourite 
of Neptune, the Queen of Great Britain! The cause is 
self-evident. I had begun by making myself at home in 
the state cabin, by using the upper hammock as a standing 
desk upon which I placed my book, supported on each side 
by book bags. When the rain had ceased I walked on 
deck: the sea was smooth, but the N.E. wind most pene-. 
trating. 


To the Same. 


[Translation. ] Cologne: Monday, 18th March, 1844. 
(Soft breath of Spring), eight o’clock, a... 


Already I have plunged into the open sea of the life of 
my people, and into the arms of old friends. I left Brussels 


32 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


early on Saturday, and arrived at seven o’clock in the even- 
ing at Cologne, where Helmentag fetched me from the 
station. We talked until after two in the mornmg. On 
Sunday Zwirner’s assistant showed us everything in the 
cathedral; for the first time I saw the apsis completed, 
according to the original plan. Helmentag suggested to 
me to visit the Archbishop, and one of the principal patri- 
cians of Cologne, the President von Grote. I enquired 
whether he believed the attention would be taken in good 
part? He was sure that there need be no doubt; and 
offered to ascertain the suitable time. Then we proceeded 
to the Protestant church, full to the very street door; the 
preacher, a true servant of the Gospel. Then I flew by 
railway to Bonn, and by one o’clock was on my pilgrimage 
to the monument of Niebuhr, which I beheld with un- 
speakable emotion. Then I went to Hollweg, with him 
to Brandis, with the latter to Arndt and Nitzsch, whence 
Hollweg again fetched me, and he with Brandis accom- 
panied me back to Cologne: on my arrival there, I was met 
by Helmentag with the intelligence that my announced 
visit would be very agreeable to the Archbishop. I drove 
to the palace, where I had not set foot since the eventful 
day of September 17, 1837; and had a conversation of an 
hour and a quarter with the coadjutor Archbishop, who 
met me in the most friendly manner, and after the first 
half hour treated me even confidentially. Having returned 
to Helmentag I met the President von Grote, at supper, 
and we sat in friendly talk together till midnight. Now, 
in half an hour I shall be on the way to Diisseldorf, passing 
by the side of a hospital building, where a fine Roman 
mosaic has been excavated, 500 square feet, with the images 
of the seven sages and their Grecian names. The kind 
President promises to show them to me. We two had 
never seen one another before, and we have parted as 
friends. The Archbishop requested me to express to the 
King his deep respect —that will please the dear King | 


LET. 52] GERMAN HOSPITAL IN LONDON. 33 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] Diisseldorf: Tuesday, 19th March, 1844. 


... The excellent Count G. looks at the condition of 
. things asI do, if not more gloomily still. With the noblest 
intentions and the highest gifts, mistakes continually take 
place; and the public mind (which is unjustly embittered) 
seizes upon them. Whatever is done is sure to be misin- 
terpreted—everything that takes place 1s disapproved, either 
because it is really faulty, or because it is not that which is de- 
manded, the desideratum being a Representative Assembly, 
(Keichstinde). That the King should have accepted the 
protectorate of the ‘ Gustav-Adolph Verein ’ has been matter 
of great irritation among the Roman Catholics, who intend 
to have an association for the benefit of poor Catholic com- 
munities (as the other is for Protestants), which they will 
call the Tully Society (!) They will not accomplish this. 
The minister has despatched a letter to the Catholic bishops 
defending and explaining the acceptance of the protec- 
torate, to obviate groundless suppositions ; which step is 
vehemently blamed—it is said, ‘ Quz s’excuse, s’accuse.’ If 
things look ill here, it is worse in the old provinces, as I am 
assured. 

One word about Kaiserswerth, which is an admirable 
institution, superior to what I expected. Not before next 
year (the autumn of 1845) will Fliedner be able to send 
us four or five deaconesses (for the German Hospital in 
London). 

A short notice must be given of the institution of a 
Hospital for Germans in London, here mentioned, 
though there is no paper in Bunsen’s own handwrit- 
ing to notify his discovery of the great need of such 
an establishment, or of his own sedulous labour to 
bring it into reality. Such statements were no doubt 
made in his communications to the King, who granted 

VOL. Ii. D 


84 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


munificent assistance as soon as it was applied for, 
the application not having been made until Bunsen 
could represent the undertaking as both existing and 
in a state of forwardness, according to his principle 
and invariable practice with regard to claims on the 
Royal beneficence. | 

The existing need of medical and surgical aid for 
the very large German population of London was 
not owing to any objection or difficulty being made 
to the admission of German patients into the London 
hospitals, but merely because the hospital room is 
(or was, at least) insufficient in that monster city, 
even for the wants of its own denizens; and because 
even if that had not been the case, the hardship to a 
sufferer and the embarrassment to a medical adviser, 
owing to the want of a language in common, called 
loudly for a remedy. # A subscription was made, to 
‘which not only the more affluent among the German 
mercantile class contributed, but to which a great 
number of English merchants and manufacturers 
(employers of the German working men) gave efii- 
cient help; and the English subscriptions grew year 
by year more liberal, as the German establishment 
became known as a benefit to the whole neighbour- 
hood,—advice and medicine being given gratis to any 
and every poor applicant, wounds and injuries from 
accidents receiving immediate relief, without respect 
of persons—a help the more prized and acknowledged, 
as no English hospital is to be found within a circuit 
of several miles around Dalston—a cheerful, sunny 
village, one of the many about to be swallowed up 
by the ever-advancing growth of London. Further 


ET, 52] GIFT OF THE KING'S PORTRAIT. oo 


details of the German Hospital (the arrangements 
and management of which have been much approved 
and admired) are not necessary here, where its men- 
tion only finds a place as one of the many subjects of 
interest which occupied Bunsen’s time during the 
whole of his residence in London... . 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin, Hotel de Russie: 
Monday morning, 24th March, 1844. 
- Here I am, safely arrived, and received by the King 
graciously, and the ministers kindly. So much by way of 
a preface. ... 

The King, I find, has adopted the ministerial proposal, 
to bamish decided improprieties from the practice of Divorce 
Courts, and from the list of the fourteen allowable motives 
for divorce which now exist :—the introduction of a Law of 
Divorce founded on gospel principles being for the present 
given up, on account of the violent excitement to which it 
would give occasion. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin: 27th March, 1844. 


.... The King received me the day before yesterday in 
his closet, from six o’clock to eight. Imagine! on coming 
from the Queen’s apartment into the Gothic hall where I 
awaited him, he at once led me up to a portrait of himself, 
saying, ‘ Here is the return for the head of Christ ;* it has 
been long finishing,—I hope you will be pleased with it.’ 
You can hardly imagine what a splendid gift the King has 
made me. It is an enamel, or miniature, a foot and a half 
in diameter, on: porcelain, of the finest finish; the frame of 

* A head of Christ with the crown of thorns, a much-admired piece of 
sculpture by a Belgian artist, Kessels, had been offered by Bunsen to 


the King, and graciously accepted, before he came to thethrone. A por- 
trait was asked for in return. 


D 2 


36 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


gilt bronze, expressly designed, and in great measure by the 
King’s own hand, is the result of three years’ artistical la- 
bour. The elder Schadow said to me, ‘ That is indeed a 
royal present !—you wil] be much envied, and intrigued 
against.’ I answered, ‘That was the case already ; such 
matters could not be made worse.’ .. . 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. } Berlin: 10th April, 1844. 


. . .. Theaudience granted by the Prince of Prussia was 
very important. The Prince spoke with me more than an 
hour, and in the first place about England, then on the 
great question—the Constitution. I told him all that I had 
said to the King of facts that I had witnessed. Upon his 
question, what my opinion was? I requested time for con- 
sideration, as I had come hither to learn and to hear; but so 
much I could perceive and openly declare, that it would be 
impossible longer to govern with Provincial Assemblies 
alone ;—it was as if the sglar system should be furnished 
with centrifugal powers only. The Prince stated to me his 
own position relative to the great question, and to the King, 
with a clearness, precision, self-command, and openness 
which delighted me. He is quite his father; throughout, a 
noble-minded Prince of Brandenburg—of that house which 
has created Prussia. 

This audience has created much surprise, and all those 
who as yet had avoided taking cognisance of my existence, 
are now full of attention and consideration. ... 


To the Same. 
[Translation. ] Berlin: 21st April, 1844. 


Yesterday evening, Tieck’s ‘Puss in Boots’ was per- 
formed admirably, in the concert-hall. The King had 
invited 300 persons, chiefly belonging to the learned pro- 
fessions. Although the execution was successful beyond 
expectation, yet one could not help feeling that the mockery 


JET. 52) LECTURE BEFORE THE ROYAL COMMISSION. 37 


of the public is spun out too much; besides which, the fairy- 
tale loses its attraction by the method of treatment. The 
merely negative can never furnish a thorough artistic en- 
joyment. I enclose the playbill, on which I have marked 
the names which are given by the wits of Berlin to each of 
the performers—they say the piece has long been performed 
at court—and in the distribution of parts, that of ‘ Souffleur ’ 
(prompter) is assigned tome. Never mind!... 


To the Same. 
(Translation. | Berlin: Wednesday, 24th April, 1844. 

.. . . Last Monday evening I gave my lecture before the 
Royal Commission,* which lasted an hour, and the com- 
ments made upon it two hours and a half; it ended with a 
declaration of entire agreement from all the ten. Indeed, 
several members had already pronounced opinions on most 
points to the same effect, which they had withdrawn in con- 
sequence of an express declaration of disapproval on the 
part of the King. I expressed, more especially to Herr von 
Rochow, my great pleasure in this happy coincidence of 
opinion. It was determined that the printed scheme should 
be worked out afresh, to be laid before the King, and that 
I should revise it. ... 


The King never having read the Greek tragedies 
in the original, or in a German translation, had only 
taken in an idea of them through the systematising 
phrases of his tutor Ancillon, and thus was enraptured, 
a8 with a new and splendid discovery, when Tieck, in 
one of his evenings of poetical reading at the palace, 
chose for his subject the ‘ Antigone’ of Sophocles, as 
translated by Béckh. The delight which the King 
experienced, he knew not how to give vent to more 
royally than by expressing a desire to see the tragedy 


* On the question of granting a constitution in Prussia. 


38 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


completely performed. Its success, on the Berlin 
stage, with the splendid compositions of Mendels- 
sohn, was considerable, and yet not such as to silence 
the opposition of a critical and gainsaying public, 
which, instead of beholding in the performance the 
gratification of artistic taste on the part of the King, 
was resolved to believe in a design to regulate or 
school the general taste by authority. At a later 
period, the ‘C@dipus at Colonos’ (the choruses by 
Taubert) was performed with good effect; and by the 
desire of the King, under Bunsen’s direction, the 
great works of Atschylus (the ‘Agamemnon,’ the 
‘Eumenides,’ the ‘Choephoroi’) were compressed 
by Professor Franz into one piece, called the ‘ Ores- 
teia.’ It was hoped that Mendelssohn would have 
undertaken the arrangement and musical composition 
of the choruses, but after much consideration, for 
reasons indicated in thé second volume of his pub- 
lished correspondence, he was obliged to leave the 
royal wish unfulfilled. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. } Palace of Sans Souci, Potsdam : 

Whit Sunday, 1844, twelve o’clock. 

Here, as at Berlin, all is in the greatest excitement—the 
courier announcing the Emperor’s arrival having come but 
two minutes before him. The Emperor had accomplished 
the 250 German miles in 106 hours, including the four hours 
that he passed before the gate of Berlin (in order not to rouse 
the Meyendorfs out of their sleep), changed his dress, drove 
to the Greek Russian Church, which was decorated with 
fresh flowers and branches for the festival, and all present 
on their knees, the mass having begun. The Emperor by a 
sign commanded stillness, and knelt close to the entrance, 


fit. 52] VISIT OF THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA. 39 


remaining thus (in his tight uniform) for half an hour, and 
then proceeded to his proper seat, before the singing of the 
‘Te Deum ;’ after that, to the railway, and on to Sans Souci. 
He is going by Holland to England, where he will remain 
eight or ten days, and so you will see him. <A grand 
presence! The journey hither, and to England, may be- 
come matter of universal history. All is in the hands of 
God, and this is the festival of the greatest of miracles ! 

He is, every inch of him, an Emperor. What courage, to 
go for his pleasure into the midst of five hundred Poles, who 
have all sworn to kill him! The King accompanied him 
back to Berlin, from whence, early to-morrow, he will pro- 
ceed to London by the Hague, and arrive in thirty-six hours ; 
sooner probably than this letter can reach you. That would 
have been a surprise, if I had brought it myself! ‘Meglio 
cosi—anzi, molto meglio!’ 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


[ Translation. ] 

Sans Souci: Whit Monday, 1844, twelve o'clock. 

. . . - No confidential mtercourse has taken place here 
between the King and the Emperor—of that Iam convinced: 
it was scarcely possible ; and, besides, they are upon no con- 
fidential footing. Were that the case I should now be on 
the way to London. The Emperor himself brought the 
matter near to me—‘ J’avais cru vous trouver 4 Londres. 
Quand y serez-vous de retour ?’ ‘J’attends les ordres du Roi, 
Sire.’ ‘Je peux donc me charger de vos commissions pour 
Londres ?? A low bow on my part. End of the conver- 
sation; the Emperor moved on; the King came near ; 
Humboldt remarked, as in joke, ‘ You ought to travel after 
the Emperor, and return with him.’ ‘Yes, indeed,’ said 
the King, ‘ that is true !’ ‘ But he would not arrive in time,’ 
observed Humboldt. ‘It might be possible, by Hamburg.’ 
‘Rather by Ostend,’ rejoined the King. I was silent, for I 
saw it was not the King’s intention, and could perceive no 


40 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


use in such a journey to and fro; on the contrary, it would 
give rise to erroneous suppositions, as though there were a 
yreat political plan between the two courts, into which I was 
to help to-induce England to enter; but that is not the case 
—the Emperor has indicated no such design. Of course I 
should go, had the King given the least sign of a wish to 
that effect. I believe he would like it as little as myself. 
Ideas or imagination the Emperor has not ; but there is an 
inward dignity in him. 

I cannot even comprehend how business can be per- 
formed as it is here—I mean really great and necessary 
business. All seem to be gliding quietly down the stream 
to the cataracts which are actually before them. The daily 
life of the court and of the ministers experiences no inter- 
ruption for a single day, as though we lived in the most 
commonplace period; and yet every one says that we are 
ina time of crisis! Non ci capisco niente! Often am 1 
haunted by the spectre of the court and ministry at Paris 
in 1788-89 ; but then, I say again, Prussia is not France, 
and, above all, Frederic William IV. is not Louis XVI. [ 
have shown throughout my life, that I am not nervous: I 
can sleep in the storm, and be silent in the fire; butif I 
sat at the helm, I should have no peace until a resolution 
had been taken, and I could then set about the work resolved 
upon. For delay between determination and action is as 
intolerable as between betrothal and wedding. 


To the Same. 
[Translation ] Tuesday in Whitsun-week. 


The day that the Emperor was here at dinner, I sat, as 
usual, opposite to the King, who addressed me in conver- 
sation more even than usual. He began by explaining the 
sense of Beethoven’s ‘Overture’ to the ‘Coriolanus’ of 
Shakespeare, which was performed under the windows of 
the dining-room, remarking that the composition designated . 
all parts of the action, dc. ; his subject led him to speak of 


LET. 52) VISIT OF THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA. Ay 


the ‘ Eumenides,’ and IJ mentioned that I had induced Franz 
to make a fresh translation, condensing the three parts ito 
one whole in three acts by the omission of unnecessary por- 
tions. The Emperor enquired what the matter in question 
was; and the King related, shortly and humorously, the 
subject of the tragedy, concluding with—‘ The thing ends 
thus : the Furies receive the title of Hxcellency, and a house 
rent free outside the gates,—and withdraw, on these condi- 
tions, well pleased !’ All the allusions contained in this jest 
you must get Thile to explain,—one allusion, among many 
others, is to aset of grumblers who a few days ago were dis- 
missed and paid off with the title just mentioned and other 
desirable things. The Emperor must have remained as en- 
tirely uninformed as before, and have thought his royal 
brother-in-law original in his jokes. The rest sat im mute 
unconsciousness,* with the exception of clever Meyen- 
dorf.... 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin: 6th June, 1844. 


. ... Imagine that we have more than twenty great 
composers in the style of Palestrina, all Protestant, mostly 
Prussians—one and all, hitherto, buried in oblivion—in 
whose works are choruses giving the ancient German choral 
melodies in four, five, and six parts, like the Innz of Pale- 
strina. Of these I shall place many in the ‘ Choral Book.’ 
But how does my heart yearn after other and weightier 
reforms! Could the Church of Christ but be freed from 
the stains fixed upon her by unbelief and false belief, by 
despotism and anarchy, by aristocratic greediness of gain! 
It will not be long before I shall be called a Jacobin, as 
before I was reckoned a Jesuit. Never mind! With God's 
help, I may yet attainthe end. Next week Iam to go to the 
King ; this week I requested him to leave free to me. ... 


* That is, unconscious of the analogy between certain passages in the 
history of the Emperor’s family and in that of Agamemnon. 


42 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


[in English. ] Berlin: Thursday morning, 13th June. 

I have to tell you an important fact, that 1 must be in 
London soon after the middle of July. The commercial 
discussions are becoming too important to allow of my 
being longer detained. 

The King has my two Memoirs, and I have announced to 
him my last word, which contains the Key, and which I 
have shown to nobody else. .... 


To the Same. (At Berlin.) 


{ Translation. ] 
From Sans Souci: Wednesday, 26th June, 1844. 


.... IT am still here, and shall probably also be here 
to-morrow, and the day after (Friday). I am to have a 
solemn audience—ihe audience. .... 

My heart is heavy, yet less so than last Sunday. God 
alone can here direct me to do the right thing, and He 
alone can give success! The King isin real earnest. .... 


Very gratifying and important to Bunsen was the 
favourable change in the sentiments of his Royal 
Highness the Prince of Prussia (the present King) 
towards him. At the date last mentioned, the Prince 
seemed determined upon a journey to St. Petersburg, 
but the next letter of Bunsen notifies his having 
decided upon visiting England, accepting Bunsen for 
his guide: and the favourable opinion, founded on 
the personal acquaintance begun in July 1844, ceased 
not to be evinced by his Royal Highness in innume- 
rable proofs of confidence and kindness, as long as 
Bunsen lived, and most touchingly after he died. 

The medical consultations, with a view to which 
Bunsen had summoned his wife to bring her invalid 
daughter to Berlin, ended in the recommendation of 


ZEr. 52] BUNSEN’S RETURN TO ENGLAND. 43 


a cold-water treatment, to be undergone at Marien- . 
berg, near Boppart, on the Rhine; and Bunsen and 
his wife departed in different directions from Berlin 
at the same time—he to be ready in London for the 
Prince’s arrival, and she for a temporary banishment, 
which prevented her being present to receive his 
Royal Highness at the dwelling of the Prussian 
Legation, then No. 4, Carlton Terrace. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] 

London, Carlton Terrace: 24th July, 1844, Wednesday. 
. You have been informed of our prosperous 
voyage, and you also know that the Prince of Prussia, in 
all probability, will arrive to-day, when he shall have re- 
ceived the intelligence of Queen Victoria’s safety. He will 
‘therefore find all things here prepared for his reception. I 

must consider this as providential. 

I have found the public mind with reference to Prussia 
much changed ; it is fancied that Prussia and England are 
no longer cordial in their relations to each other. I shall 
therefore go to-morrow to the Agricultural Dinner at South- 
ampton, and make a little speech to my friends, the Eng- 
lish farmers. .... 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] London: 7th August, 1844. 


. Tam just returned from Windsor Castle, where 
nie 18 pprcared for the friendly and dignified reception of the 
Prince. Prince Albert very happy in the birth of a second 
son, the Queen as well or better than ever. . . . . I 
shall to-morrow write and try to induce the King to cause 
the oldest obelisk in the world—that of Sesortosen (under 
whom Joseph was vizier)—to be sent to him from the 
Fayoum. , 


44, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


To the Same. 


[ Translation. | Badminton (residence of the Duke of Beaufort) : 
Friday, 30th August, 1844. 


. At length, on the twelfth day of the journey, a day 
of rest in this truly royal country-seat! We have seen 
Edinburgh (the magnificent) and Glasgow (on 24th August, 
the day on which Knox founded the Kirk of Scotland), the 
Lakes, and Liverpool (before this tour we had been at Ports- 
mouth and at Oxford), the splendid seat of Chatsworth 
(more than royal), Stowe, Warwick Castle (where I thought 
of you as well as at Edinburgh), Lowther Castle, Belvoir. 
To-morrow to the Queen; on the 4th (September) to Lon- 
don ; the Prince will embark on Saturday evening the 7th. 

This journey was a refreshment, and a great event. The 
Prince of Prussia has taken an affection for England— 
admires her greatness, which he perceives to be a conse- 
quence of her political and reliyious institutions. 

The old relation between the Prince and myself, of 1822, 
has been restored ; he it was that broke the ice, and began 
to speak upon all the weighty points, even the question of 
questions. He listened to my expression of opinion with 
composure, entered into all subjects, sometimes assenting ;— 
that same Prince, who could not endure the King’s listen- 
ing to me, even during the past month! ‘To God alone be 
praise! I amalways alone with the Prince in the carriage, 
with Captain Meynell, who, not understanding German, is 
no check upon our conversation. 

From the King I have had an admirable letter to-day— 
here it is :— 

‘Erdmannsdorf, 20th August, 1844.—DEaREst Bunsen,—I 
have received your four parcels with the many splendid 
letters, and read them all with the greater interest last 
night, until after one 4.M. 

‘On the subject of the attempt on my life you speak as 
a friend and as a Christian; for which, God reward you! 


JET. 53] BUNSEN TO HIS WIFE. 45 


He will turn, as it seems, the curse, in the purpose of man, 
to abundant, heavenly blessing. So be it! 

‘I should consider my preservation as a miracle, worthy 
to be placed by the side of those recorded in Scripture, 
were not I myself the object of 1t. The ball, fired at the 
distance of less than a foot, tore through all my clothing ; 
but I experienced not the slightest sensation, and it rolled 
off from the breast-bone, powerless into the carriage! Be 
silent, and adore! is my motto. 

‘The Obelisk will be lost to me. But may the Arazzi 
be mine! I will give the sum out of my pocket, and into 
the bargain the twenty guineas for the cameo of my great- 
uncle. Pray settle all at once. God be with you !—F.W. 

‘To William all that is cordial and affectionate! Talk 
over with him all things as much as possible—politics, 
church matters, the arts, Jerusalem in particular. I have 
begged. him, on his part, to discuss everything unreservedly 
with you—that will be most useful and very necessary.’ 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
(Translation. ] 

Carlton Terrace: Thursday morning, 5th Septemher, 1844. 
... . Lam this day to receive the Raphael-tapestry, and 
forward the pieces to the King, I hope before the equinoc- 
tial storms. On the journey with the Prince of Prussia I 
had occasion to see and know fine specimens of human 
nature, besides Wellington, Peel, and Aberdeen, with whom I 
have really lived, and conversed much and confidentially :— 
Lady Adeliza Manners, daughter of the Duke of Rutland 
(who translated Tholuck’s sermons), I saw at Belvoir 
Castle; and Lady Westmoreland, with whom I first became 
acquainted on this occasion. This flight through the 
country will save me half a year of future travelling, both 
tizne and expense, for I have seen much that I had need to 
see, and should long since have seen. One friend too have I 
gained—Stockmar. He will accompany me next Sunday 

to Oakhill. 


46 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


To the Same. 
FTranslation. | London: Monday, 9th September, 1844. 


The Prince has departed, and the end has passed off as 
happily as the beginning and the middle of the time. The 
Prince has heaped all possible kindness upon me, and, as he 
is true and sincere, I can thoroughly rejoice therein. He 
has not only allowed me to lay before him all important 
papers, but has discussed them with me. 


Numerous additions might have been made to this 
scanty report of the important and prosperous journey 
of his Royal Highness to and through England, in 
particulars related by Bunsen of conversations with 
the distinguished men whom he presented to the 
Prince, always endeavouring to lead to topics on 
which they might be moved to utter opinions, which 
he then reported in German to his Royal Highness. 
The Duke of Wellington readily replied to questions 
on military subjects, and his answers (as was always 
the case with every word that fell from him) would 
all have been well worth recording ; but only one is 
remembered—when asked about military regulations : 

—‘I know of none more important than closely to 
attend to the comfort of the soldier: let him be well 
clothed, sheltered, and fed. How should he fight, 
poor fellow! if he has, besides risking his life, to 
struggle with unnecessary hardships? Also, he 
must not, if it can be helped, be exposed to the balls 
before he is fairly in action. One ought to look 
sharp after the young officers, and be very indulgent 
to the soldier.’ 


ZEr. 53] LETTERS TO JULIUS HARE. 47 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Julius Hare. 


[Translation. ] Board of Trade: 4th September, 1844. 

I reply to your invaluable letter not till the third day, 
and from this place !—that must show you that I have had 
as much impediment to writing as I have had desire to 
write. May God’s richest blessing be upon the great and 
important change in prospect! I call it down, with truly 
confident belief that it will be granted to you. I feel as 
though a long-desired personal benefit had been conferred 
upon myself, when I see that happiness conferred upon 
you which I have so often desired for you. I am con- 
vinced that your heart’s impulse has guided you rightly, 
having felt myself drawn from the very beginning of my 
acquaintance towards that rare being who has won your 
heart, and given you hers. . . In blessing to be blessed, 
is the secret of earthly happiness, and an earnest of heaven 
—and that will be the lot of both of you dear and precious 
spirits, in a measure as full and ample as I desire for 


I have passed through four laborious and unquiet weeks, 
but, God be thanked! not in vain. My being together 
with the Prussian heir presumptive, a Prince whom in his 
very early years I had known and loved, but whom events 
had alienated from me, has been the occasion of important 
conversations, in the result of which I have all reason to 
rejoice. 


To the Same. 


4, Carlton Terrace: 5th November, 1844 (Gunpowder Treason). 


It is too great a happiness to have the privilege of ac- 
companying you to the place where so blessed a tie will be 
closed for life. I shall meet you with F. at the station, in 
time for the two o’clock train, Your arrangement seems 
to me excellent, and I hope to join in the Holy Communion 
with a blessing on that day, together with you and yours. 


48 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1844 


I think it certainly wise not only not to enjoin it (which I 
should consider wrong) but even not to press it—for it 
must, as human nature is, soon sink (as it is in all Roman 
Catholic countries) into a mere formality, like that of hear- 
ing @ Mass. I should therefore think it wrong to go further 
than your Church has done, when it enjoins the newly 
married couple to attend the Holy Communion soon after- 
wards; this, I suppose, is meant at an early occasion with 
the congregation to which they belong; coram ecclesid, in 
the proper sense. And this I think the more to be the 
right view of the case, as the original contract of marriage, 
coraim ecclesid, meant nothing else. But this need not pre- 
vent individuals from receiving the sacrament with their 
nearest and dearest friends, if they feel it right so to do. 
It is the same with the Communion every Sunday. Asa 
general custom, I should deprecate it, the history of the 
Church showing what the consequences are of suffering 
it to become a custom or rule. But who will doubt that 
many persons find it a comfort and a blessing? and the 
opposite view, in the Roman“Catholic Church, where the 
popular habit (in Rome and Italy) is the one paschal com- 
munion, is, a8 Calvin so truly says, ‘an invention of 
Satan.’ 

The article in the ‘ Times’ on Arnold was very malicious 
and insidious. Not venturing to ignore his book, and not 
daring to trample him under foot, the Tractarians do after 
the method of their brethren the Jesuits,—they praise the 
schoolmaster, declaring him to have been the greatest that 
ever lived, but, of course, nobody ever failed so signally as 
a controversialist. ‘A splendid boy he was indeed,’ as 
Moseley says in the insidious review in the ‘Christian 
Remembrancer.’ ‘ Luther was a great popular writer’ 
(Volksschriftsteller), says King Louis of saan only no 
theologian.’ 


| Er: 53] ACQUAINTANCE WITH MAX MULLER. 49 


To the Same. 
Oakhill: 27th November, 1844. 

I have received, from a highly respected quarter, a very 

strong recommendation of a young man of twenty-two years 
of age, much thought of by Schelling. He has made him- 
self known by a new edition of the ‘ Hitépadésa’ from the 
Sanscrit, and is a general scholar, altogether distinguished. 
He desires to live some years in England. . . He is the 
son of the celebrated poet and philologer Wilhelm Miiller 
(author of the Griechen-Lieder and Rimische itornellen), of 
high moral character, and, as far as I know, of serious con- 
victions.* 

My dear friend, what a turmoil is this in your Church? 
As yet is the storm only beginning to whistle: but the idols 
of the Tractarians must be blown to the four winds. Were 
but your sermon published about ‘ Unity and Uniformity !’ 
IT have often told you I was sure there was an anti- 
Tractarian fermentation in the bulk of the nation, which 
would burst out one of these days. The Tractarians wanted 
to impose on the Church (ie. the Christian people and 
their ministers) formularies and rites, not because they 
were well inclined towards them, but in spite of their 
not liking them. Why ?—1in order to ¢est the authority of 
the Church (i.e. the clergy), and in order to bring about 


* This is the first indication of an important event in the life of Bun- 

sen—the acquaintance (which at once became warm friendship) with Dr. 
Max Miller, now Professor of Philology at Oxford ; and his approach is 
hailed as the rising of a beneficent luminary on the horizon. Thekindred 
mind, their sympathy of heart, the unity in highest aspirations, a con- 
geniality in principles, a fellowship in the pursuit of favourite objects, 
which attracted and bound Bunsen to his young friend, rendered this 
connection one of the happiest of his life. Bunsen had always made 
advances to meet men of the younger generation, who sought his influ- 
ence and were willing to accept what he was always ready to give; and 
those who met his encouraging approach in the consciousness of close 
alliance in spirit, may congratulate themselves on having exercised a 
soothing power over his latter years, 


VOR. aT E 


fr 


50 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 1844 


that sham sanctification which in the blindness of their 
hearts they oppose to justification by faith. It is quite 
natural that under such circumstances forms should be 
rejected as forms, with the Rubrics (out of which you can 
make anything) and without them. But this is still but a 
very preliminary step: the deep-seated forces in opposition 
must in their turn come up in sight, and then people will 
see that there 1s no power but in Christ, the living Son of 
God, and in the faith which grasps the Divine grace,—in 
which, as our atmosphere, we live, with that awful free-will 
by which we can choose to die rather than to live, by re- 
fusing to inhale it. Arnold’s words will become every year 
‘more prophetical. 


Bunsen to One. of his Sons. 
[Translation. | London: 11th December, 1844. 


... The criticism of the historical school endangers 
not faith, but, on the contrary, is calculated to strengthen 
and confirm it. We do not,,in the least give up prophecy, 
but consider it as specifically different from divination 
and subtle combination : we place prophecy in its true light, 
by proving it to be based in every imstance on historical 
facts. 

Prophecy is essentially not the foretelling of an external 
event as such, that is, with indication of name and time: it 
is rather the perception of the divine and eternal element 
in the palpable facts of the present. There is no single in- 
stance of actual foretelling of the future with its details 
(names of persons and specification of years)—and where- 
fore ? that would be dealing with mere externals, and at the 
same time an encroachment on the freedom of God and man. 
Equally certain is it that not all prophecies are fulfilled : 
the prayers and the sins of men must retain their power: 
and both are frequently expressly taken into account. Who- 
ever thus believes in the Prophets believes in them essen- 
tially as the Apostles did, and the Fathers of the Church, 


AE, 63) LETTER TO ONE OF HIS SONS. 51 


Augustine and Luther at their head; only the language is 
not the same—our mode of expression is a more exalted one, 
but can confer salvation as little as any other. 

I know nothing more grand than the succession of the 
Prophets, contemplated in this spirit. Throughout all good 
and evil fortune, hemmed in by all individual and national 
trammels and limitations,—ever to have kept the kingdom 
of God, the reign of the True, the Right, the Good, in view, 
and to have interpreted all things by that standard !—all 
this forms a spectacle without example in history,—and, 
without taking into account the support of Divine grace, 
incomprehensible. 


Er 2 


52 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1845 


CHAPTER XII. 
CONTINUED RESIDENCE IN LONDON. 


‘CHURCH OF THE FUTURE ’—THE QUEEN’S VISIT TO GERMANY—BRUAL— 
STOLZENFELS—VISIT TO CORBACH—DEATH OF MRS. FRY—THE OREGON 
QUESTION—-JOSEPH JOHN GURNEY-—EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE—CASSIO- 
BURY— WINDSOR—TRENTHAM—THE PRUSSIAN CONSTITUTION —— FELIX 
MENDELSSOHN — PHILULOGIGAL STUDIES —- THE QUEEN'S VISIT TO CAM- 
BRIDGE-—AUDIENCE OF THE QUEEN —DR. HAMPDEN—-WOBURN ABBEY 
—~ALTHORP-——LADY LOUISA STUART—-THE NEAPOLITAN REVOLUTION. 


Tue following letter was addressed by Bunsen to one 
of his sons, then on a visit to Corbach, his own birth- 
place, in the Principality of Waldeck. After giving 
directions for the erection of a monument to his 
parents in the cemetery of his town, he proceeds :— 


[‘Translation. ] 7 London: 11th March, 1846. 


Be sure to see my friend, Syndic Wolrad Schumacher, at 
Arolsen ; he was the best-beloved of my youth in the school- 
years, and I have never ceased to be attached to him with 
all the peculiar tenderness of youthful feelings. Make a 
point of visiting Louise Cramer, with whom I was confirmed 
—an old maid, living m poverty. Remember me to 
Frederica Wigand, a Bunsen by birth, my cousin and play- 
fellow, now a widow anda grandmother. Visit the school- 
masters. I should hke to contribute to the Strube Fund.* 
Tell Curtze that I shall send my works for the school 
library. Greet the thatched roof under which your father 
was born, and where he lived for seventeen years; the 


* A foundation towards assisting needy scholars at the Corbach Latin 
Schools, in commemoration of Dr. Strube, fora long time one of its most 
meritorious masters. 


/ir. 58] LETTERS TO SIEVEKING AND MRS. FRY. 53 


Eisenberg, on which he often sat in waking dreams; and 
pray in the church of the old town, for yourself and us, and 
for the cherishing light and warmth needed by the whole 
country ! 


To the Syndic Sieveking, in Hamburg. 
[ Translation. | London: Thursday, 10th April, 1845. 


. .. The first part (of ‘The Church of the Future’) was 
added after the entire work had been written. I felt the 
need of clearly stating beforehand the idea which the work 
was intended to unfold, in its deepest roots and in its most 
extensive ramifications, shortly and yet fully. I am quite 
aware that I have thereby rushed into a new danger, but I 
could not do otherwise. I chiefly apprehend having given 
the ill-disposed a pretext for considering me a semi-Pela- 
gian, a contemner of the sacraments, or denier of the Son, 
a perverter of the doctrine of justification, and therefore a 
crypto-Catholic theosophist, heretic, and enthusiast, deser- 
ving of all condemnation. I have written it because I felt 
compelled in conscience to do so. Again, however, I think 
that many a German reader will understand me all the 
better, for (as Reck says) ‘a thorough German cannot 
convey the soup to his mouth without the spoon of meta- 
physics!’ ... 

Bunsen to Mrs. Fry. 
4, Carlton Terrace: 17th May, 1845. 

T can assure you I never passed a more quiet and 
truly satisfactory evening in London than the last, in the 
Queen’s house, in the midst of the excitement of the season. 
I think this is a circumstance for which one ought to be 
thankful. It has much reminded me of hours that I have 
spent at Berlin and Sans Souci with the King and the 
Queen and the Princess William ; and, I am thankful to add, 
with the Princess of Prussia, mother of the future King. 
It is a striking and consoling and instructive proof, that 


o4 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1845 


what is called the world, the great world, is not neces- 
sarily worldly in itself, but only by that inward worldliness 
which, as rebellion against the spirit, creeps into the cot- 
tage as well as into the palace, and against which no 
outward form is any protection. Forms and rules may 
prevent the outbreak of wrong, but cannot regenerate 
right, and may quench the spirit, and poison inward 
truth. ... 


Bunsen to Kestner. (In Rome.) 


[Translation. ] 
Oakhill (near London): Monday, 30th June, 1845. 

My dear old heart’s friend, this day closes the twenty- 
eighth year of the happiest married life; and this day it 
was given me to write to the beloved bride-elect of my dear 
Ernest the first letter, as to a daughter; and now do I ap- 
proach my desk again to announce to you this family event. 
You were always fond of my Ernest. Elizabeth Gurney is 
the same that he saw five years ago at Berlin, with her 
father and aunt, when the lgtter, Mrs. Fry, visited Ger- 
many. | | 
In my letters to Mr. Gladstone, I have maintained the 
lawfulness and the apostolic character of the German Pro- 
testant Church. You will find the style changed in this 
work, bolder and more free; I hope also easier to under- 
stand. Itis my endeavour to write as I speak; and I try 
to exercise both writing and speaking as an art. Frances 
writes to my dictation: she enters quite into my ideas, which 
18 @ great enjoyment to me. 

To act as a statesman at the helm, in the fatherland, I 
consider not to be in the least my calling: what I believe 
to be my calling is to be mounted high before the mast, to 
observe what land, what breakers, what signs of coming 
storm, there may be, and then to announce them to the wise 
and practical steersman. It is the same to me whether my 
own. nation shall know in my lifetime or after my death how 
faithfully I have taken to heart its weal and woe, be it in 


4Er. 53] VISIT OF QUEEN VICTORIA TO GERMANY. ao 


Church or State, and borne it on my heart as my nearest 
interest as long as life lasted. I give up the point of mak- 
ing myself understood in the present generation. Here, I 
consider myself to be upon the right spot: I seek to pre- 
serve peace and unity, and to remove dissatisfaction, wher- 
ever it is possible. And then I learn daily in this country 
much from life itself. Therein consists English greatness ; 
in art and science we have still the advantage. The true 
poetry and philosophy of England is in life, and not in the 
abstract consciousness of that same life. I was never a 
better German than since I have lived in England. Of 
Rome I think as of another planet, with all the longing of 
recollection, without the faintest wish ever again to breathe 
its atmosphere. 


In August Bunsen was summoned by the King to 
Stolzenfels, on the occasion of the visit of Her Majesty 
Queen Victoria and Prince Albert to Germany. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


[ Translation. ] 
Aachen: Monday morning, 10th August, 1845. 

. .. After a fine passage, a night’s rest, and an agreeable 
evening with the dear Arnims, I arrived happily at the 
old friend’s house (Brandis’ at Bonn), and, not having 
found other orders, I proceeded at three o’clock to Brihl, 
where the King was expected, and whither he came at 
four, to go on after an hour’s rest on the way to Aachen, to 
meet Queen Victoria at the frontier. JI hastened to join 
the King on leaving the train, which stops, as you know, just 
before the Palace. The King called to me from the 
carriage, saying, ‘ Well, Bunsen, have you received my 
letter ’ On my replying in the negative, he said, ‘ What 
a pity!’ Hardly had we entered the Palace, when he 
embraced me in presence of the whole group of attendants, 
and said, ‘ My letter was intended to have met you on your 
entrance into Cologne, to take you by surprise, and give 


56 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1845 


you the first greeting as Wirklicher Geheimer Rath (Privy 
Councillor of the First Class); they believed you would 
have arrived with the Queen, and so, I now greet you here,’ 
The Prince of Prussia congratulated me, and the whole 
Court echoed the ‘ Excellency.’ 

I drove on with the King (the Queen remaining in the 
Palace of Briihl) through Cologne to Aachen, where the 
King alighted at the house of the President von Wedel, 
and held a great reception; an hour afterwards to supper, 
which proved dinner to me, and was very welcome. Then 
appeared a procession of torches, with singing, and accla- 
mations animated and general. To-day at ten o’clock the 
King proceeds to the frontier. .. . 

The Prince of Prussia sends kind congratulations to 
Ernest; the King wishes all joy to him and you and 
me ; and he commented (in the railway-carriage) in his ani- 
mated manner upon the desirable circumstances of such 
a connection,—‘ to have Mrs. Fry for an aunt, and the 
excellent grand Samuel Gurney for a father-in-law!’ He 
added, ‘The first free hour we have, we will write a letter 
to Mrs. Fry; I shall give you my thoughts in German, and © 
you shall put them at once into English.’ 

I had of course got into one of the carriages of the suite, 
when the King, who was in the central carriage reserved 
for him, with the Prince of Prussia and the Ministers of 
State and General Thile, called to me to get in, saying, 
‘Bunsen will fill the whole carriage with English comfort- 
ableness, which does me good.’. 

Humboldt is here, greatly depressed by the tragical 
failure of Bilow’s health, at the moment when he might 
have had a brilliant close to his political life. Canitz and 
Radowitz are to arrive to-morrow. I believe the King’s 
object is to bring us three together; we have never yet 
had such an opportunity. I was to have been lodged in 
the same house with Bilow in the village of Briihl, but am 
now to have Arnim for my companion. 


Er. 53] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 57 


. When I am once more at home, I shall remain» 
with you. I cannot perform the charioteer-duty together 
with those who desire to put on the drag, in the apprehension 
that they are rushing down a steep, when J want to put on 
leaders to proceed up the ascent, slowly but safely! Full 
up for yourself the details of this image; with all my pon- 
dering, I can find no better. 


To the Same. 


[Translation.] Schloss Stolzenfels : 
Friday afternoon, 15th August, 1845. 


. Prince Metternich informs me, ‘ that he has occu- 
pied himself for three weeks almost exclusively with me 
and my pursuits: the great work on Egypt has attracted 
his most particular attention ; this book, and ‘‘ Cosmos,”’ 
and a few similar great productions, give him comfort in the 
midst of the follies of the day.’ I expressed to him the 
hope that I might succeed in rendering the two remaining 
volumes more worthy the attention of such a statesman: 
and that I desired to dedicate my life to researches con- 
nected with the ancient world. .... 


To the Same. 


[ Translation. } At ‘ Brandis-ruhe,’ Bonn: 
Tuesday morning, 19th August, 1846. 


.... After tea and after eight o’clock, the King sent 
me word that I must come to Sans Souci; there he would 
be on the 28th, and there he should have leisure; and the 
same he repeated by word of mouth early yesterday morning 
as he went off towards Frankfort. 

. My stay (at Berlin) will certainly not be a long 
one ; the King’s heart is like that of a brother towards me, 
but our ways diverge. The die is cast, and he reads in my 
countenance that I deplore the throw. THe too fulfils his 
fate, and we with him. 

I return ten years older, but unbroken in spirit of life, 


08 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1845 


and in the faith, which God has given me, and which may 
He preserve to me! My heart longs after the invisible 
world and its eternal centre—after the secrets of the human 
mind, their products and results ; but in humble conviction 
that no mortal can attain to the knowledge, otherwise than 
as in @ mirror or image. Latria, patria, atria,* Church, 
State, wedlock; to those will I. bear witness, if God will 
grant me life and strength as hitherto; and whatever the 
turn of fate may be, thus will I walk on through the path 
of life, to its end, by your side! with upward gaze towards 
Him. For that do I constantly pray, best beloved! ... 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Corbach: 25th August, 1845. 


An unhoped-for day of rest has been granted me, in the 
place of my birth, on my birthday. I came with the ‘ Snail- 
post’ (Schnell-post) from Elberfeld yesterday, and arrived, 
at two on Sunday morning, at Arolsen, whence, after some 
pleasant sleep, I proceeded at seven o’clock, accompanied 
by my ever-beloved friend of boyhood, Schumacher, towards 
Corbach, entering the old¢own of my fathers, with my 
sister Helen and her husband (who had driven to meet me), 
at nine. J had only reckoned upon staying over Sunday ; 
but my birthday anniversary just’following, I thought that 
to remain was indicated—if any day is a man’s own, besides 
his deathday, it surely is his birthday! This morning my 
first walk was to the graves of my dear parents. I had 
visited the spot after church with my sister and Siebert ; 
this time I went alone, and the half-hour spent there will, I 
hope, not have been without its due impression upon me. 
This day will be passed in the company of my sister (besides 
necessary letter writing), in visits, and in a pilgrimage to 
the Eisenberg, a hill from whence I have often, alone or 
with Schumacher (but the first time of all with my father), 


* The ancient motto of the Port family (of Iam, Staffordshire), to 
which Bunsen’s mother-in-law belonged. 


fEr. 54] VISITS HIS BIRTHPLACE. | 59 


watched the sun rising on a Sunday morning. I have had 
a welcome from the Burgomaster, and a deputation from 
the Gymnasium, the speaker being the Rector Weigel, whom 
I reckoned among my teachers. To-morrow I drive to Cassel 
with my sister—I am to arrive at one, and go on directly 
to Géttingen, where Liicke and Reck expect me. On 
Thursday to Halle; on Saturday, 30th, in good time at 
Berlin. When I have had the audience in Sans Souci, I 
depart forthwith. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. } Brunswick: Thursday, 28th August, 1845. 
My pDEAREsT,— ... You have had my report as far as 


the pilgrimage to the Eisenberg, the Sinai of my boyish 
years. We went through the flourishing plain (Dr. Curtze, 
the headmaster of the school, and Duncker, accompanying 
us) to the height crowned with wood, where, at the very top, 
are the ruins of the old castle of the Counts of Waldeck. 
Somewhat lower are the fine remains of an ancient forest, 
and a square mound artificially flattened and planted with 
oaks (the rest is beech), surrounded by a ditch, outside of 
which is a broad level which once a year serves the gay 
world of Corbach for a summer dancing-floor under the 
shade of trees and in full view of the town and of the sur- 
rounding hills. This place is called the Prince’s seat, also 
the King’s seat—and no one knows why or wherefore. 
Thence did I behold my original native soil spread before 
me—no longer as formerly, in the glow of the dawn, in the 
first rays of the sun, but in the calm light of declining day ; 
and the eye glided past the tower of Waldeck over a 
number of villages and small towns to the height of Cassel, 
the unknown object of childish gaze and conjecture. My 
entire life lay before me between aspiration and striving, 
from 1805 to 1845—forty years (a number not mythical, as 
in the patriarchal labyrinth), full of connected recollections. 
It was hard to break from the scene, and retrace my way 


60 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1845 


in the last rays of the sun through the corn-lands standing 
thick with golden sheaves ! 

For the evening a surprise had been contrived for me. 
In Waldeck, as elsewhere, singing associations have been 
formed—the vocal Round Table being the method by which 
the voice of Vetter Michel* breathes forth his deceived hopes, 
and keeps up his courage, although not his confidence, for 
the future. I had observed at eight o’clock an unusual 
movement and a low hum round the house, and at nine the 
whole society appeared with lanterns and music-books—at 
their head Herr von Hadeln, a much respected magistrate, 
one of the men of 1813, who had shed his blood at Ligny and 
Waterloo. They sang German songs, and last of all, the 
‘German Fatherland.’ Then came a deputation, and Herr 
von Hadeln made me a short and hearty speech—alluding 
to the German hospitals in Rome and in London. (He 
is a man of small income, of which more than half is 
given to the poor.) I answered, also from my heart, and 
begged the whole company to come in. There I saw many 
a good countenance, and shook hands with one and all, 
reminding them of our proverb, ‘God forsakes no Wal- 
decker ’—and of its connectidn with that other, still wider 
saying, ‘God forsakes no German.’ 

With Herr von Hadeln I conversed till late at night: he 
has both head and heart in the right place, and therefore 
both ache! 

After a short rest I drove at five o’clock in the morning 
towards Cassel, breakfasting with Schumacher at Arolsen 
by the way. Everywhere do I find the same condition of 
mind: the same highly developed intelligence, the same 
honest striving in the greater part of the nation—in too 
many exasperation, depression in all, From the Rhine to 
the Spree, one feeling, one speech !—the officials being not 
less excited than the rest. 


* Vetter Michel serves to designate the German people as John Bull 
does in England. 


Er. 54] DEATH OF MRS. FRY. 61 


Near Magdeburg I met Humboldt, with whom I drove as 
far as Kothen, learning much that was remarkable. He 
perfectly understands and approves my intention of leaving 
immediately. 

(Finished at Berlin.) All friends absent, except Pertz, 
Lachmann, and the faithful Roéstell. I am to see Béckh 
to-day. As soon as the King arrives I am to be announced 
for audience of leave. 

The weather is heavenly ; the harvest on the whole good ; 
the heat Italian. | 

Monday, 1st September.—The King did not arrive till this 
morning early, and goes on Friday morning to Stettin to 
meet the Empress. I have had a long audience of the 
Prince of Prussia. I have taken a place to-day on the 
steamer from Hamburg, for Thursday morning, the 4th. 
Deo gratias! All right! 


Contemporary Notice. 
21st October, 1845, 


Alas for the loss of dear Mrs. Fry! She fell down in- 
sensible, on Sunday the 12th, and expired early the next 
morning, was heard to utter words in prayer once, but 
otherwise she gave no sign of consciousness. It is believed 
that the dropsy which was gaining ground upon her and 
threatened lingering pain, suddenly affected the brain, 
and thus terminated at once a life which had been a con- 
tinual preparation for death. The consciousness of an 
irreparable privation is blended with much thankfulness for 
her having been spared lengthened suffering and gradual 
decay, and having had much comfort to brighten her 
last half year, in seeing her youngest son happily married, 
and having rejoiced hardly less in the marriage of Krnest 
with her niece Elizabeth Gurney. All had been arranged 
for our seeing her at Ramsgate on the lst of October, but 
a Ministerial Conference was fixed by Lord Aberdeen for 
the 2nd, and thus we could not go; and a succession of 


62 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1845 


appointments on public business ever since has never left 
Bunsen the necessary interval of three days; thus it could 
not be, and we regret in-vain. She had a great pleasure 
in the King’s having written to her with his own hand 
Jast month. Her funeral took place yesterday, and we 
could not attend, because Bunsen was confined to his bed. 


Contemporary Notice in a Letter to a Son. 


Oakhill: Saturday, 25th October, 1845. 


Your father’s illness has passed off entirely [he had caught 
cold at Windsor], and he is better than before the attack, 
in full activity of labour, and enjoying the critical emen- 
dation of the text of Ignatius, and the proofs elicited of 
systematic falsification for the sake of procuring something 
like divine honours for the hierarchy. I suppose you have 
been told before of the Syriac MS. purchased lately for the 
British Museum from an Egyptian convent and published by 
Dr. Cureton, which contains the original text of the Epistles 
of Ignatius—long suspected of having been interpolated 
without any possibility of proof. Your father will publish 
the corrected text with a German translation, accompanied 
by a commentary, in a series of letters of his own addressed 
to Neander. 


Contemporary Notice to a Son on the Continent. | 
Northrepps (Norfolk): 14th November, 1845. 


By a beautiful drive through Enfield and Cheshunt, we 
reached the railway at Broxbourne, and proceeded to Nor- 
wich and Earlham, experiencing the kindest reception from 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph John Gurney. Earlham is the image 
of a home of peace, intelligence, activity in all good, and 
refinement in happiness; gladly should we have stayed 
longer, but your father had only a few days to spare, and we 
had so many kind friends to see that we were bound to 
hurry on. The simple Bible reading with which the day 


HBr. 64] THE OREGON QUESTION. 63 


begins in Mr. Gurney’s house, short and earnest, accom- 
panied by deeply thought comments, will, I trust, not easily 
be forgotten. He took us to see Norwich, and Mr. Hudson 
Gurney at Keswick, one day, and the next accompanied us 
half way to this place. . . . We are received and cherished 
in this good county of Norfolk with a fulness of kindness 
and of considerate attention to all possible wants and 
wishes far beyond what I can describe. You will believe 
that we were struck with admiration of Anna Gurney! 
The victory of the mind over suffering never surely was 
more complete; for the countenance does not retain a 
trace of the conflict, beaming, as it does, with fnlness of 
benevolence and intelligence. Her linguistic talent is a 
matter of wonder, rising in proportion as it is examined 
into by those who are competent. .... 


The Oregon question is become a tale of other times, 
and it may be beyond the power of readers at the 
present time to conceive with what force it throbbed 
through all minds devoted to that which concerns the 
weal or woe of nations. Bunsen was much occupied in 
speaking, writing, and seeking a way out of the com- 
plication of claims and interests in this matter, until, 
by the wisdom and moderation of the Governments 
on each side of the Atlantic, the chaos was subdued 
into order, and the beautiful and promising colony 
of British Columbia was the unexpected result. The 
two honoured brothers, Joseph and Samuel Gurney, 
were urgent with the members of the Society of 
Friends in the United States to exert their influence 
in the cause of peace; and when arbitration was 
contemplated as the only means of preventing war, 
the idea was for a time entertained (and by Lord 
Aberdeen not discouraged) of suggesting a reference 


64 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1 B45 


to the respected chief magistrate of Hamburg, the 
Syndic Sieveking, in case there should be a difficulty 
‘in the choice of a crowned head. 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 
Oakhill: Monday evening, 8th December, 18456. 


At last Ignatius is getting ready! Of my seven epistles 
to Neander (the three have grown into seven, as the seven of 
Ignatius have shrunk into three) only one remains to be 
written, for which the preparations are made. It will bea 
snug volume in quarto of about thirty sheets, and I hope it 
will please you. But me it cannot please, until I have laid 
it before you, and improved it by your remarks, and enriched 
it by help of your books. Next week I could free myself 
from town. Can you receive me ? 


To the Same. 
Oakhill, 31st December, 1845. 


. In these concluding hours of a year which has been 
full of blessings to me, I feel the want of conversing with you, 
at least in writing, and of dwelling upon some of the hap- 
piest hours which were spent under your hospitable roof. 
They have been a real refreshment to me, and I hope will 
be a lasting benefit. I delight to reflect upon all the affec- 
tion, and charity, and piety, and thought, which I there 
beheld, and pray that your happiness may be long pre- 
served. I thank you for all the affection you bear to me ; 
of which I had a new proof on my arrival here, where I 
found your and your dear wife’s corrections of my letter to 
Gladstone, which make me say exaculy what I wished, but 
had failed to express exactly. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Oakhill: 12th January, 1846. 


Inscriptions in the arrow-headed (cuneiform) character, 
a short time since considered hopelessly sealed, have been 


#Er. 64] LETTER TO HIS SON AND DAUGHTER. 65 


read, and wonderfully confirm statements of Herodotus with 
reference to Darius Hystaspes. With what renewed interest 
we shall behold the ancient Persian bas-reliefs in the 
British Museum! But, apropos of these, J must mention 
that Bunsen saw three days ago, at Sir Robert Peel’s, just 
unpacked, two specimens of the sculptures of Nineveh, pre- 
sented to him by Sir Stratford Canning, to whom they had 
been sent by the consul at Mosul, A male and female head 
of exquisite execution, and without a particle of barbarism 
except the conventional mode of representing the eye in full 
front, while the faces are in profile. The French Govern- 
ment are expending large sums for the removal of masses of 
sculpture from the same tract. 


Bunsen to a Son and Daughter-in-law, staying at Rome. 
Oakhill: 16th April, 1846. 


How often in spirit do I fly over to my beloved Rome, 
and to the house of the dear friend* who has received 
you with such affection—to the Capitol, to the chapel and 
the hospital ! 

_ We have passed the quiet and holy week in such quiet as 
could be hadin London. Our dear child went through her 
preparation for Confirmation by the venerable Steinkopf, 
in deep seriousness and concentration of mind ; and on Palm 
Sunday, in the name of herself and her companions, pro- 
-nounced composedly her profession of faith. On Easter 
Sunday we partook with her of the Holy Communion. It 
was on Easter Monday that I peculiarly thought of you in 
_ the beloved chapel on the Capitol. Through all this course 
of serious thought, I had a very anxious affair to fight out, 
_ relating to the noble-minded Gobat, named by the King as 
the Bishop of Jerusalem, which has drawn upon him much 


_ * Kestner, the Hanoverian Minister Resident, who had found an apart- 
ment for the travellers under the & same roof with himself, and in every 
way cherished them, 


VOL. II. ¥ 


66 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1846 


envy ; and, moreover, I have had something to complete in 
my MS. of the two volumes of ‘ Ignatius,’ which are to be 
sent off to the press to-morrow. 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 


(Translation. ] London: Thursday morning, 30th April, 1846. 
(382 years after the taking of Paris.) 

. . . The more I reflect upon the present time and the 
future, upon my own generation and yours, and upon the 
laceration and dismemberment of intellectual and popular 
life among Germans, the more do I groan in spirit over hu- 
man folly. Wherefore labour to be possessed of the key of 
all knowledge, only to open therewith syllables and letters 
and trifles of antiquity ? or else, whether consciously or un- 
consciously, to prove that nothing is likely to be discovered 
which could remunerate the labour of opening or forcing 
the lock P Who has a right to break down, unless he pos- 
sesses will and the power to build up again? No man 
has a calling to deal with History, who is not clear in his 
own mind as to Religion, the social system, and that of the 
State ; and how should he become so without having studied 
theology and law? Between reality of knowledge and pre- 
tension to it, careful discrimination is essential, which, how- 
ever, is not difficult to a German philologer, who might as 
easily interpret the Bible and the Pandects, as Theocritus 
and Eustathius, and far more easily than the Ramayana and 
Menu; but first of all, he must have learnt to interpret 
Homer, Plato, and Thucydides. 

Take hold of the thing with spirit, my beloved son, and 
drive out of your head all useless self-contemplation ; in its 
place let your mind dwell on reality, the God-created object 
of intellectual contemplation. Leave alphabets and stones 
to others, from whom you may learn their just interpre- 
tation, and plunge into the history of the revelation of God 
in humanity, the centre of which is the Bible, and its 
outward inclosure the Pandects. The antiquated magic 


Fir. 54] LETTER TO ONE OF HIS SONS: 67 


spells, by which historical revelation was to be conjured up, 
are broken, or at least powerless ; not certainly because their 
object has ceased to exist, but’ because spells more potent 
have become visible on the mental horizon, in consequence 
of the more rapid revolution of the intellectual universe. 
In like manner is the Roman law system verging to its de- 
cline, to make room for a more perfect edifice. 

Religion is to the Christian, in the nearest sense (not as 
with the Jew, the Hindoo, the Arabian), that which enters 
into his flesh and blood ; just because it is the religion of 
humanity, and not a part of nationality. In other words one 
might say: therefore shall Christianity pervade both nation 
and state,—the dovoy shall unfold out of the iepdy; not as 
with the Jews, by direct revelation and tradition, but as 
by the Ionian mind, popularly worked out from the God- 
given essentially human feeling. That is what I should call 
a regenerate nationality ! But there are, alas ! mere shadows 
of Christianity in the world ! such is the Book of Common 
Prayer to the Englishman, and the General Assembly to the 
Scotchman. 

It is said that a Jesuit pupil has this advantage over the 
disciple of Deism, that revelation is of real worth to him. 
That is distorting the fact. Neither of them, neither the 
believer in authority nor the believer in an abstract God, 
take into consideration historical revelation. But inas- 
much as inward subjective religion is a moral conviction, 
and therefore a belief in reason and self-responsibility, the 
follower of Kant has an incomparably firmer hold on the 
truth of life than the scholar of Loyola. If the latter be ac- 
tually believing, then he is a converted Christian ; and of 
such I am not here speaking. But the person or the people, 
proceeding from that school, as natural men (not as born 
again in the Spirit of God), are the first to sink into unbelief 
of Christianity, and that all the more easily if they are of in- 
telligent mind and refined cultivation ; fer as all was to them 
authority, not inward consciousness, nor revelation, evidenced 

¥F2 


68 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1846 


-by competent testimony, they cannot avoid becoming aware 
of the deceit and hollowness of their foundation. But the 
Deist, under the same conditions of moral energy and in- 
tellectual activity, although on the domain of the natural 
man, is drawn into a struggle, which brings Christianity 
essentially near to him. Compare the history of Caney, 
and of Spain since 1780. 

T am resolved to encounter the school of Tibingen, to the 
full extent of their exertions ; in order to tear asunder the 
veil of romance in which they have enwrapped the history of 
the two first centuries with their web of self-delusion. . .. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Wildbad.) 
[Translation. | Carlton Terrace: Monday, 13th July, 1846. 


You will have heard of the two great days—the Con- 
‘secration of Gobat on Sunday, the 5th, with the Bishop 
of Calcutta’s memorable sermon; and the dinner-party 
‘(extemporised) on Monday, the 6th, with all the speeches 
and after-dinner songs from the ‘ Messiah.’ The excellent 
Gobat left us on Thursday for Antwerp; the day before 
we had got through all business matters satisfactorily. 
Friday and Saturday were very lazy days. Saturday 
evening I felt the spirit of composition and thought, which 
had sadly left me, to be returning, and next morning I 
rose soon after five and worked at Leiter VI. (to Neander) 
successfully. After five in the afternoon I walked with 
‘Meyer and Reumont to Kensington. To bed by ten, and 
this morning I went on where I had left off. I hope to 
read the whole letter this week to Hare, whose volumes 
are real treasures of thought and erudition. He and Mrs. 
‘Hare were among those most inspirited by that Monday 
dinner, when the Spirit fell upon us, including the Primate 
of the Church of England..... 

I have succeeded as to Lord Westmoreland’s remaining 
at Berlin. 


Ex. 55] _ LETTER TO SIEVEKING. | 69 


The Bishop and Elders of the Moravian Brethren, on 
June 25, in their meeting at Berthelsdorf, have decreed to 
present to me through Latrobe a copy of the new edition of 
Zinzendorf’s poems. I prize the gift higher than ten acade- 
mical honours or orders. 


To the Same. 
[Translation. ] London: 28rd July, 1846. 


.... My life here is full of important and varied in- 
terest. With the new Ministry I am on a very good foot- 
ing. Palmerston is like an old friend: he in the palace 
like a brother. The Queen’s half brother, Prince Leiningen, 
has also shown me much confidence: there is a new and 
popular spirit arising among these mediatised peers of the 
empire—a proof of the resistless impulse of the German 
nation towards unity and freedom. The Synod shows an 
excellent temper, good intentions, just appreciation of time 
and measure. Theiner has declared against the so-called 
‘friends of light’ and Ronge. .. . 


To the Syndic Siveveking, in Hamburg. 
[ Translation. ] London: 8th September, 1846. 


.... L[ hail, with you, the emigration of our countrymen 
to North America (the land of the Anglo-Saxons and of 
our own kindred), towards the Pacific Ocean and the Gulf 
of Mexico. I have daily the map before me, and contem- 
plate the Rio Bravo del Norte, of which I take possession 
from Santa Fé and San Felipe, and then the two Califor- 
nias* and the fine desert land between North California and 


* Whenever the curiosities of Bunsen’s diplomatic life in London see 
the light of publicity, his plan of accepting the offer made by the rulers 
of Mexico in 1842, to purchase California for the King of Prussia will be 
reckoned among the most original. Humboldt dissuaded His Majesty, 
and the matter was dropped. The Prussian Envoy at Washington, 
Baron Ronne, on the other hand, warmly applauded the project. ‘The 


70 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1846 


the Rio del Norte as the connecting tract; and then T 
draw a line southwards, if possible to the 25th degree 
(instead of the 42nd), as my boundary on the Pacific, 
and I feel the joy of the human race that God should 
have granted to it the length and breadth of the earth. 

‘Canada is not worth keeping long,’ is becoming here 
more and more the general feeling. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Saturday : 29th August, 1846, 


We had reason to be very thankful on Bunsen’s birthday 
for all attendant circumstances—it was a very cheerful day. 
Archdeacon Hare and his wife dined with us, and a charade 
was represented very cleverly in the evening, contrived be- 
tween Lepsius and Henry, and worked at by all in the 
course of that afternoon only, for the preceding evening the 
plan had not been decided upon, and all the morning of 
the 25th, from ten till after two, was passed at one of the 
meetings in Exeter Hall.. They acted the word ‘ grand- 
father’ (Grossvater), in allusion to the birth a few days 
since of the first grandchild. This was symbolised by 
Herodotus, the Father of History, the nine books of whose 
work are designated by the names of the Nine Muses, per- 
sonated by nine veiled figures; on each veil the name of 
the Muse was pinned. When the names had been duly 
observed, the veils dropped, and disclosed figures (in grace- 
fal drapery) portraying the various works of their own 
father—Frances, very picturesque in Grecian folds, formed 


time has come,’ he said in a letter to Bunsen, ‘ when we ought to take a 
grand and independent attitude. For this we must be united, and we must 
possess a fleet and colonies, Your idea of purchasing California is ex- 
cellent. I never ventured to express such far-stretching desires. But 
I pointed out in 1837 already, when reporting upon the condition of Ger- 
man emigrants here, that Mexico would perhaps resolve upon ceding a 
portion of California, Your plan of purchasing the whole is better in 
every respect.’ 


ZEr. 55] - LETTER TO STOCKMAR. 71 


by a red snawl, with a ‘ Basilica’ on her head, like a mural 
crown, and another in her hand; Emilia was robed as 
Roma with the Seven Hills as a diadem (alluding to the 
work on ‘Roman topography’); Mary, as the ‘Church of 
the Future,’ with a transparent veil and a mirrorin her 
hand; Theodora, with a lyre, veiled, held the ‘Hymn 
Book ;’ Lepsia (as we call Madame Lepsius) was ‘ Jerusa- 
Jem,’ in mourning robes and a mural crown; Lepsius 
himself, as an Egyptian statue, stiffly wrapped, with a high 
cap, represented the work on Egypt; Meyer bore aloft the 
work on ‘Ignatius,’ hiding behind the rest, to indicate its 
not being yet come out; Henry bore the ‘Roman Liturgy’ 
(that used in the Chapel of Palazzo Caffarelli); and Reu- 
mont, dressed as a Cabinet courier, carried a load of des- 
patches. 

The Princess of Prussia arrived yesterday (28th), and 
we are to dine with her at the Queen Dowager’s to- 
morrow. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[ Translation. ] 4, Carlton Terrace: 7th October, 1846. 


“ae I have been reading in the ‘ Pictorial History of 
England’ (Macfarlane’s), which Arnold considered the 
best for the eighteenth century, the Anglo-European rela- 
tion of the period from 1688 to 1720. So ho! So ho! 
King William for ever! My admiration for him rises the 
more I become acquainted with the immeasurable wicked- 
ness of the English nobility, the deep corruption of Parlia- 
ment and all officials, the indolence and selfishness of the 
entire nation at that time. Pray read William’s secret 
letters on the Spanish concerns and the French alliance, 
vol. iv. part 1, pp. 88 to 110. They were written for 
this year 1846, I shall not rest until I have penetrated to 
the very bottom of the thing before I open my mouth 
again, 


72 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1846 


Contemporary Notice. 
14th May, 1846. 


At the annual dinner of the Literary Fund last night, at 
which Bunsen took the chair, the Bishop of Lincoln (Dr. 
Kaye), in proposing Bunsen’s health, made, of course, a 
great eulogy upon him, and wound up by observing that it 
might be presumption in him to dwell upon this or that 
point, but that he must be allowed to bear testimony to his 
being ‘one of the ablest divines of the day,’ which is a 
sharp stroke against the Puseyites, who are very angry 
with Bunsen for his letter to Gladstone, and for having 
caused the appointment of Gobat as Bishop of Jerusalem. 
They accuse him of heresy on account of the work on 
Egypt, in the last number of the ‘English Review:’ for 
which condemnation he must be consoled by the favourable 
tone of the ‘Edinburgh Review,’ of the ‘Journal des 
Savans,’ the ‘ Prospective Review,’ and others, and above 
all by a good conscience. It is unusual for a foreigner to 
have been invited to preside at an English anniversary 
dinner like that of yesterday exening. Bunsen would have 
felt bound to decline the distinction, if he had not regarded 
it as a compliment to his King and country, and to the 
diplomatic body in general. 


Extract from a Letter of 24th June, 1846. 


IT am ever thinking of the words of Peel, in September, 
1841—‘ Let the King remember that Necker’s having 
slighted Mirabeau brought on the French Revolution.’ 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. | 
Windsor Castle: Monday (early), 9th November, 1846. 
. .. L have excellent news to give you! Prince Albert 
informed me yesterday evening of his intention of appoint- 
ing Meyer as his librarian and private secretary, in the 


Zr. 65] LETTERS TO STOCKMAR AND SIEVEKING. 73: 


place of Dr. Pretorius, who dces not return, owing to his 
wife’s ill health. Thus has Providence helped our excellent 
friend, for which we have reason to be truly thankful. I 
have suggested that Meyer should have a leave of absence 
occasionally, that he may in Ireland and Scotland study the 
remains of Celtic antiquity, as he has done already in the 
matter of the Welsh manuscripts. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[ Translation. } 4, Carlton Terrace: 11th November, 1846. 


It is the more welcome to me to have matter of business 
to communicate to you which obliges me to write; for the 
‘fair days in Aranjuez’ still exercise their influence, and: 
the habit of exchange of ideas draws me in spirit often back 
to the proud towers of Windsor. 

The bomb has burst over Cracow. Not even the idea of 
giving to it the character of a free imperial city (which 
according to the despatch was offered for consideration) 
has been reckoned possible. 

A certain Montesquieu said once, that the principle of a 
certain form of government was ‘la peur.’ We have made 
such progress in principle that ‘la peur de la peur’ 1s 
become the principle of modern rulers. 


To the Syndic Sieveking at Hamburg. 
[ Translation. ] London: 24th November, 1846. 


. . . I must lament with you over a new source of grief, 
although you know it too well. What a calamity, what a 
misery, is this Cracow business, this nefarious breach of 
treaties, this political madness in two out of the three 
Powers! Three months I wrote a warning officially; on 
the 15th October, confidentially, I reiterated the warning, 
in the most solemn manner. All in vain !—Oh! how can 
weakness be warped to aid in purposes which will bring 


The enclosure explains the wishes of the society. An 


74 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1846 


attempt to collect the wandering sheep of Germany out of 
this London abyss is the matter in question: and we have 
need of itinerant messengers of faith. The City Mission 
employs 200 such among the natives in London, who are 
fully occupied ; but they mostly belong to the class of Scrip- 
ture-readers or colporteurs. What we more especially 
need would be one of the brethren trained by Wichern. He 
would, of course, receive a competent salary, &c. Wintzer 
couducts the Young Men’s Association, which he and Kind 
(now gone back to Switzerland) together founded. The 
Association flourishes: but Wintzer has not leisure for 
exploring the east end, where by far the greater number 
of German mechanics are employed. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
Windsor Castle: the last day of the year 1846. 


. I have passed some happy and important days 
again in this beautiful palace, often turning my eyes 
towards the spot below the castle where you used to live. ... 

When at Trentham, I saw fhe fine portrait of that great 
and good man Sir Bevil Granville in armour, with his long 
and beautiful hair; the Duke showed it to me, and reminded 
me of the link between the two families, himself being 
seventh and my wife being sixth im descent from the common 
ancestor. 

To return to Windsor Castle—(whence I just perceive 
the dawn of this last day of the year, looking towards the 
Long Walk), the Queen is a wife and a mother as happy as 
the happiest in her dominions, and no one can be more care- 
ful of her charges. She often speaks to me of the great task 
before her and the Prince, in the education of the Royal 
children, and particularly of the Prince of Wales and the 
Princess Royal. She brought them all into the corridor tho 
day before yesterday, to shake hands with me. . . . I hope 
and trust I shall remain here; my position is all I could 
ever desire, and better than ever; and at home I sincerely 


ZEr. 55) LETTER TO SAMUEL GURNEY. (0 


believe that I could accomplish nothing worth the sacrifice 
of happiness and life. But I hope I place all, with single- 
ness of purpose and sincerity of heart, in the hands of the 
Almighty, ready to live and to die for the King and the 
fatherland, whenever and wherever it may be required ! 


Bunsen to Mr. Samuel Gurney. 


Carlton Terrace: 6th January, 1847. 


. . . TL revered and loved Joseph John Gurney as an elder 
brother. There was in him a union of Christian temper and 
deep piety with rare intelligence and fine acquirements. 
For many years I had loved and valued that combination of 
qualities; but the days spent in his house, last November 
twelvemonth, and the transactions and conversations which 
were the consequence of our intercourse at that time, treat- 
ing of the question of peace with the United States, brought 
us so much more closely together, that 1 have had the 
greatest longing ever since to enjoy his elevating and cheer- 
ful presence another time with greater leisure. This wish 
has not been granted by Almighty wisdom ; but he is enjoy- 
ing the happiness of those who behold God, before whose 
countenance he walked through the dark vale of life, and 
whose word and spirit were his guide in his writings, in his 
preaching, in his conversation, in his actions. We shall 
never see his like again on earth; we must look up to Him 
in whom all redeemed spirits live and are united together! 
Your brother’s memory will live also on earth, in his family, 
in the Society of Friends, among thousands of Christisas of 
all tongues and creeds. He found the key which opens all 
the secrets of faith, and he spoke the language which opens 
all hearts—love. And there was with him a living witness 
of the Spirit, a certain majesty of Christian gentleness and 
truth, which struck even persons who were not in the habit 
of seeing him. I shall not easily forget, how Sir Robert 
Peel and Lord Aberdeen spoke to me of the impression he 
had made upon them, when presenting the peace-petition 


76 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


which had such a blessed effect. I should desire the privi- 
lege of being present at the funeral, but that I am ordered, 
on account of a relapse into influenza, to keep to the house. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[ Translation. ] London: 8th February, 1847. 


The Constitution is made: as I said, it has appeared on 
the anniversary of the late King’s summons to his people, 
February 3, 1813. 

It is much better than the original design. 

The foundation is laid for a House of Peers. 

The right of petition 1s not infringed upon: and that is 
the new point gained, which was not promised by Frederick 
William ITT. 

So far, so good. Pray come soon to your faithful, 

BUNSEN. 


To the Syndic Sieveking, at Hamburg. 
[ Translation. ] London: 16th March, 1847. 


Again I close my post-work to-day with a few lines to you, 
for my refreshment and invigoretion. 

I have not yet replied to your declaration, ‘that for the 
alliance of England you would give up the German Naviga- 
tion Act.’ That would I not. Hither England will abrogate 
her own, and then we are not affected ; or she will maintain 
it, and then ours 1s the only possible means of bringing 
about moderation and fairness. The wish ofthe Government 
is to do away with the antiquated ordinance ; but first there 
must be a new Parliament, and the friends of Government 
will be rigorously catechised on the hustings. John Bull 
is an egotist ; we must not take it ill of him (for others are 
equally so, only not so openly), but we must not allow him 
to indulge in this egotism! I tell him so plainly, with a 
shake of the hand, but seriously and decisively; and he 
does not take it ill of me, but remains on the best terms. 

_ The prohibition of the ‘ Weser-Zeitung’ ought to be re- 


Er. 65] LETTER TO STOCKMAR. — | 77 


moved ; but I cannot write again to Berlin on the subject— 
the security in which they remain there is appalling to me. 
I have surely told you already, that Peel wrote to me an 
admirable letter of twenty-two pages in quarto on the sub- 
ject of the Constitution, in answer to a letter of mine with 
questions.* He is of opinion that the Government may be 
able to maintain the Constitution, if only sincere in desiring 
its due development, and prepared in mind for that develop- 
ment. That is here the general conservative opinion; the 
French assertion, ‘ que ce sera une constituante ou la révo- 
lution,’ finds no more response than the Orleanistic animo- 
sity in the ‘ Débats.’ .. . 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[Translation.] Thursday in Passion Week, 1847. 


It would be very popular, and indeed meritorious, if the 
Prince would undertake to bring Shakespeare again on the 
stage, where he hardly ever appears now. In Drury Lane, 
where once Garrick and Mrs. Siddons reanimated his crea- 
tions, elephants and horses are now performing! Macready 
would be the man. The aristocracy has never done anything 
for Shakespeare, which would have been so easy. If the 
Queen would be present at a Shakespearian performance, 
the entire aristocracy would flock thither the first day, fol- 
lowed by John Bull on the second. 

The ‘Times’ have placed couriers between the east and 
west railway (Hanover and Cologne) and ordered special 
trains, to receive the King’s speech before all other papers. 
I told the sub-editor that the King would never read a 
speech, but speak it as the Spirit should move him at the 
moment, He fancied that I might perhaps already have the 
speech in my pocket, or at least should receive it on the day 
of the opening of the Chamber., no Thursday, for the 
second edition, he expects to receive“it. 


* This letter has been sought for in vain. It must have been trans- 
mitted to the King. . 


78 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
Herstmonceaux Rectory: 9th April, 1847. 


I have been thinking much of you here, where every step 
brings back to me the memory of past days and years, happy 
times, happy above all through you! I feel that I am grow- 
ing old, for when this afternoon I walked by the side of our 
former house and the Castle (both in equal desolation now) 
I was overcome by my feelings, and could scarcely repress 
my tears. I was therefore doubly happy to have a letter 
from you to-day. Now for the various messages! The first 
is from the assembled primroses, daffodils, and violets which 
I met on my way—all greeting you tenderly; they looked 
so happy on their stems that I had not the courage to 
gather one for you. The second from Mrs. Augustus Hare, 
to let you know that she is coming to London to-morrow. 
The third message 1s from Lady Herschel, who wishes that 
tickets could be secured for her to hear the third rehearsal 
of ‘Elijah.’ She is very amiable, and her eldest daughter a 
musical genius. I hope you have seen Mendelssohn, and 
given him my love. 

Now I must dress—it is fifteen minutes past the dinner 
hour. Your own, Bunsen. 

We have Egyptianised the whole day ! 


Bunsen, with his wife and the whole family, accom- 
panied by Prince Lowenstein, Prussian Secretary of 
Legation, who was the ‘ best man’ on the occasion, 
went to Stoke Park on April 14, in order to be present 
at. the marriage of his eldest son, Henry, to Mary 
Louisa Harford-Battersby, which was celebrated on 
April 15, by Dr. Monk, Bishop of Gloucester and 
Bristol, previous té{Henry Bunsen’s institution to the 
vicarage of Lilleshall in Shropshire, to which he had 
been presented by the Duke of Sutherland. 


ZBr. 55] LETTER TO MRS. WADDINGTON. 79 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
Carlton Terrace: 28rd April, 18+7. 


My pear MorueEr,—I appear before you this day with 
my first English book, the first translation of a book of mine 
into English. When I was writing it, I often wished you 
might one day read it, and now that it is befure the world I 
have somewhat of the feeling of aversion by appearing in 
disguise before one by whom I should wish to be seen as 
IT am, eye to eye. The translation is faithful, without being 
slavish; I have myself rewritten some passages in English, 
and yet when I read it I feel it is not I who speak. Some 
parts sound harsher, some tamer ; almost all seem to me less 
clear and not flowing. The worst English is my own letter 
to Gladstone ; there is no style in it, but I wrote it one morn- 
ing, and sent it off almost before the nk was dry. Such as 
it is, the work contains some thoughts and hints, which will 
give matter for people to consider. Some of my historical 
statements will be attacked, and I shall reply to such attacks 
by my volume on Ignatius. I find only a part of the seven 
epistles attributed to him to be genuine, the rest interpolated 
or absolutely forged. But before the work on Ignatius (now 
printing) reaches England, 1 intend to appear before the 
English public with an Introduction to my work on Egypt, 
entirely written by myself, instead of that prefixed to the 
German edition. Three translations were attempted of 
that, but I was obliged to declare against all, and to tell my 
own tale. I well remember what you once told me (and I 
was struck by the acuteness of the remark), that you could 
not help smiling, in reading what I had written in French, 
at my assuming a French character. Indeed, it 1s very true, 
that one identifies oneself to a certain degree with the nation 
whose language one is writing ; and in writing French I am 
conscious of taking certain airs and allures which I should 
forego if writing German. But in English I have more 


‘80 - MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


courage—TI shall leave out all that is metaphysical, but ex- 
patiate more on what I can make tangible to my dear and 
worthy friend, John Bull, or rather to his ladies, for he him- 
self has given up reading books, and even sets his ladies to 
‘write what he would have written. Therefore, my dear 
mother, bear patiently with all Germanisms in this book, 
and you shall soon see me quite a steady, sober, arguing 
Englishman, in opening Egypt to the English public. In 
reading this translation you must retranslate into German— 
which you know by intuition, through Madame de Stal... . 


Contemporary Notice. 
Ist May, 1847. 


_ On Thursday afternoon, 29th April, we had the pleasure 
of a visit from Mendelssohn, who, having no evening to 
spare, came to luncheon, and afterwards gave us some 
magnificent music: he not only played himself, but kindly 
accompanied Ernest in singing, whose voice sounded better 
than ever. | 

Thursday, 6th May.—We walked to Sir Robert Inglis’s 
to breakfast, in so warm a sufishine that I could hardly bear 
the shawl which the morning before I had found not warm 
enough. A large party of men, mixed, as is the good cus- 
tom there; Lord Arundel and the Bishop of London, Lord 
Glenelg and Lord Charles Russell, Mr. Lyons and Mr. 
Stafford O’Brien, Mr. Richard Cavendish and Mr. Fos- 
ter. .. . Afterwards we saw Lord Ellesmere’s pictures, with 
Mendelssohn—to whom Lord Ellesmere offered, through 
Bunsen, to show them himself. Yesterday Mendelssohn 
again played to us in the afternoon, and we had a small 
number of persons, who considered themselves very happy 
to share the enjoyment. .. . Mendelssohn accompanied 
Ernest in his own composition, ‘ Auf Fliigeln des Gesanges,’ 
—and it was observed that he took the measure much 
slower than it is usually performed. He did not stay long, 
and departed in much emotion, 


JET. 55] MENDELSSOHN AT CARLTON TERRACE. 81 . 


This was a last meeting with that being of rare 
gifts and rare moral excellence, whose whole nature 
seemed pervaded by a sense of beauty and loveliness to 
which he could give utterance as few have ever been 
able todo. The tidings of his sudden death, in the 
month of November following, were a severe blow to 
Bunsen. He was much beloved by him, and his 
progress had been watched over and rejoiced in by 
Bunsen almost as though he had belonged to him by 
ties of blood. 

It may not seem irrelevant to the mention of 
Mendelssohn to add a ‘contemporary notice’ from 
the recollections of a son present on that last and 
memorable occasion. The last song accompanied by 
Mendelssohn was selected by himself from his Ora- 
torio of ‘St. Paul,’ saying, ‘ We will have this for a 
close !? It was the grand composition to the words, 
‘Be thou faithful unto death’ (Ser getreu bis in den 
Tod)—and having played the last note, he started up 
and precipitately left the room and the house, ex- 
claiming to those who followed him, ‘I cannot take 
leave! God bless you all!’ Itis not known what 
cause produced this unusual sense of the solemnity 
of parting ; but whether or not he may have been 
possessed with some foreboding, he was certainly 
about to be met on his return home by the tidings of 
his beloved sister’s sudden death,—the gifted Fanny 
Mendelssohn Bartholdy, wife of Professor Hensel—a 
loss most peculiarly afflicting to him. 

It was on this last occasion of Mendelssohn’s pre- 
sence in London, that he was requested to conduct 
the execution of the Oratorio of ‘ St. Paul,’ when the 

VOL. II. G 


82 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


Queen and Prince Albert had promised their presence 
at Exeter Hall. It is well remembered how striking 
was the effect of his reception by the orchestra, filled 
with musicians unusual in amount of numbers and 
of talent, who, as he entered, struck up the air of 
triumph, ‘See the Conquering Hero comes !’—after 
which, on Her Majesty’s entrance, ‘God save the 
Queen’ was given with thrilling effect. The Oratorio 
had (and has) but the one imperfection (shared with 
the ‘ Elijah ’) of over-tasking human powers of taking 
in the abundance of musical meaning—half the piece 
would be quite enough for thorough enjoyment. 

Later, in the last month of this year, the ‘ Elijah’ 
was finely performed at Exeter Hall, the whole or- 
chestra and most of the audience being in mourning 
for the death of Mendelssohn. On this occasion the 
rare powers of Jenny Lind called forth the full effect 
of the soprano passages, so grand in the last act. 

Bunsen to One of his Sons. 
(Translation. ] London: Sunday, 9th May, 1847. 


. For me, God ordained from earliest childhood a 
rigorous training, through poverty and distress; I was 
compelled to fight my way through the world, bearing 
nothing with me but my own inward consciousness, and 
the firm determination to live for my ideal aim, disregard- 
ing all else as insignificant. 


Bunsen to Mr. Graff, the Missionary. 
4, Carlton Terrace: 8rd June, 1847. 
.... Although I hope soon to have the pleasure of 
seeing you again, I cannot refrain from expressing my 


thanks for the papers entrusted to me, and my gratification 
at their contents. 


ET. 55] LITERARY ADVICE TO HIS SON. 83 


Your observations on languages show that you have ap- 
plied true philosophy to the most original and primitive 
province of the human mind. Your memoir on the con- 
nection of such linguistic-philological studies with the la- 
bour of a missionary, treats of a most important subject, 
which has occupied my mind for many years, and a clear 
understanding of which seems to me the indispensable con- 
dition of further progress in our missionary work. We 
have been long enough behind the Romanists in this 
respect, and we seem to have lost sight of the great and 
divine type held out to us, in this respect too, by the out- 
pouring of the Spirit. For the first fruit of that Spirit 
was the sanctification of the native tongues, hitherto only 
used for the purposes of common life, into hallowed organs 
for praising the ‘ great things of God.’ .. . 


Bunsen to a Son. 


London: Ist July, 1847. 
(30th anniversary of the wedding-day—Rome and Frascati.) 

I write to you to-day, because I cannot help it; having in 
fact more to do than the day can bear. 

First, [ must give vent to some thoughts, occasioned 
by your last letter. You are reading by way of study, 
and Thiers for refreshment. You will, however, find in 
not a single idea fruitful or capable of being so; for 
the man has none, although a good politician: and in Thiers 
you will find nothing but the newest appearance of his- 
torical sophistry, and the most deceptive form of deep- 
seated immorality. Why not take Niebuhr’s lectures upon 
ancient history, as a subject for study ; and then, the same 
again as refreshment? There you may decipher the great 
man in every line. Thiers will do for you to read when you 
are fifty years of age, and an invalid. But it is good also 


to recognise in the time of Napoleon its proper calling and 
purpose. 








G2 


54 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


Osborne House: Monday, 19th July, 1847. 


Here I am, well and quiet, just as if taken away from a 
seething cauldron, or awakened from a bad dream. The 
journey and the passage over the beautiful sea, and then a 
good walk which your good Queen took us, did me a vast 
deal of good. We arrived at Portsmouth in two hours, saw 
the Victory (Lord Nelson’s ship), going thither in a boat; 
then got on the Fairy, and passed the splendid fleet quite 
near, greeted by all ships with the royal salute, the men 
drawn up, and the band playing alternately the English and 
Prussian national melodies. Prince Albert was awaiting 
Prince Waldemar on the shore, and conveyed us all in a 
sort of char-a-banc. We drove between rows of laurel and 
myrtle, as in Italy, and on arriving found that the Queen 
herself had come towards us on the lawn, but had not been 
perceived by the party ! for which omission I was made re- 
sponsible as being the only one wearing spectacles! Now, 
my dearest, forgive me all my fretting, and impatience, and 
crossness, and all other things unamiable of the latter days. 
Something may be laid to the account of indisposition ; but 
the greater part of it I must take seriously to myself, and 
sol hope I do. The night’s result, when I awoke, was 
this—and you know all good thoughts come overnight,— 
I shall write (I think) to the King, stating that I need one 
year’s leave of absenee. So did Esterhazy—so did Bjérn- 
stierna—regularly. ... I must and will go away from 
London ; but I will take advice as to the manner. I have 
steered my life’s bark hitherto alone with my God, in all 
the great emergencies of my course; and thus I will do to 
my end, whenever the price of my life is at stake. I never 
weighed secondary considerations, and always found I was 
right. This is my night’s thought. We shall see how it 
will bear the scrutiny of the day. But I will not withhold 
it from you. 


Aer, 55] LETTER TO A SON. 85 


Bunsen to a Son. 
{ Translation. | Osborne House: 22nd July, 1847, five a.m. 


The news of Sieveking’s death struck me unawares, in 
spite of mournful anticipation, on my return, the evening of 
the 7th, from the Cambridge Installation solemnity. To 
Cambridge I had gone with an ever-strengthening feeling 
of oppression owing to the present course of life. During 
many months already have I been aware that it was 
crushing and disturbing me mentally, at the same time 
threatening me with ruin in outward circumstances. 

The attempt to carry on the life of Herstmonceaux and 
Oakhill—the hfe of Tusculum and the Hubel—has proved 
in London on trial altogether unsuccessful. Advancing age, 
accumulation of intellectual Jabour, increase of official, but 
yet more of social claims—all these together render the 
combination of diplomatic duties with the serene and pro- 
ductive service of the Muses tmpossible ;—but without this 
T cannot live. 

I am losing the power of tension which made it possible 
for me to work incessantly from five in the morning, and 
turn to account every moment gained from interruption. 
At the same time the aim of my varied researches stands 
clearer and truer before my eyes than ever. This is, there- 
fore, a Tantalus-existence, such as can only end in death, 
bodily or mental. 

Thus I felt and thought, when, on the 5th, obeying the 
Queen’s summons, I went to Cambridge with your incom- 
parable mother, after having shortly before passed a few 
days at Oxford, and had spoken there in the Ethnological 
Section of the British Association, to my own satisfaction, 
and with considerable approbation. Bothin my public and 
my private capacity, those three days were a time of great 
distinction to me. 

In the solemnity at Cambridge there was much that was 
heart-stirring and grand ;—the expression of homage from 


86 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


a free nation to their Queen; the glorious weather; the 
beauty of the Colleges and Halls; the number of celebrated 
and agreeable mcn, not only from England itself, but also 
from many parts of Europe; lastly, a spirit of unity among 
the thousands collected both in the open air and in the 
University buildings. Yet, with all that, I was oppressed 
by the feeling of the want of intellectual life. I felt that 
what is more especially vital in myself is here little under- 
stood ; that I and those around me are tending towards 
different aims; and that im the long run we may find 
ourselves on widely diverging lines. The immeasurable 
humbug in many, if not in all, the customs and ceremonies 
of the University, in so far as it affects the life of the 
spirit, vexed, disturbed, tormented me. For Englishmen 
there is in all a meaning, as a part of their political exist- 
ence, connecting the present with splendid recollections of 
the past ;—but what is it to a German ? 

Thus I returned home; with the prospect of another 
fortnight’s waiting upon the kind-hearted Prince Walde- 
mar. The first letter I epened on my return home told 
me of the death of Sieveking. That evening passed amid 
manifold reflections. 

When I awoke next morning a means of escape presented 
itself before me, which I had not before perceived... . 

On that morning, Bonn appeared before me; and after 
contemplating that image for half-an-hour, 1 declared to 
your mother (who was up and dressing) my determination 
to give up London and diplomatic hfe, and retire to Bonn. 
Without a moment’s hesitation she replied, ‘That would 
be ideally desirable.’ But other difficulties remained. On 
Saturday evening, the /th, therefore, I found myself again 
between the four dark prison-walls ! 

That evening and Sunday morning belong to the darkest 
times of my life. When I rose in the morning I found that 
you dear mother had placed close by my bedside the Hymn 
Book, open at Paul Gerhard’s hymn—‘ Commit thy ways 


Er.56]) ARRIVAL OF PRINCE WALDEMAR. 87 


unto the Lord,’ which I thoroughly felt all through. I 
went to Steinkopf’s church, and came out much tranquil- 
hised. A quarter of an hour afterwards, I was obliged to 
be at the railway station, to accompany Prince Waldemar 
hither. 

With a heated head and overclouded spirit I accom- 
plished the journey. The spectacle of the sea refreshed 
me. The noble fleet at Spithead saluted the royal flag 
of Prussia with far-echoing thunder; the musical bands 
of the five vessels of the line, as we glided past, played 
alternately ‘God save the Queen’ and the ‘ Landesvater ’ 
(which I had introduced in England in 1842), and the 
whole did me good. Seeing Prince Albert and the Queen 
in their beautiful tranquillity, in the isle of the south, 
overlooking the sea, rejoiced me. I am heartily devoted 
to them both, and they showed me all their accustomed 
kindness. 

I considered my plan yesterday, calmly and clearly, and 
I write it to you as it now stands before me. Now enter 
thoroughly into what 1 am about to write, make the con- 
dition of things entirely clear to yourself, and then read on. 

[The particulars follow of a plan, never executed, of a 
removal from London to Bonn. | 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 
(Translation. | London: 7th November, 1847. 

It is Sunday, and your birthday is in itself ever a festival 
to me; soin spirit I must pass half an hour with you. 

This present anniversary is a day of trial to you; may 
God grant you the blessed influences of His Spirit, that you 
may be enabled to be thankful even for that! Or, to 
express the same wish philosophically, may the Spirit 
which organised the eternal moral order of the universe 
which is the reality and perfection of reason, become so 
powerful in you that your proper self may not be prostrated 
by sorrow and discouragement! Every fatality is as the 


&8 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


marble to the sculptor—he cannot out of any and every 
block form a Zeus or a Mercury, but a divine image he 
may certainly achieve; and for that purpose it was given 
to him—as a moral problem. .... 


Contemporary Notice. 
20th November, 1847. 


We shall have Mr. Brooke (the Rajah of Borneo) to 
dinner, and many others ; Lady Raffles comes to meet him. 

22nd November.—The review in the ‘ Quarterly’ of Cap- 
tain Keppel’s ‘ Journal of H.M.S. Dido’ is written by Lord 
Ellesmere. The account is most interesting of all that Mr. 
Brooke undertook and executed for the benefit of the 
people of Borneo, following out the notions of Sir Stamford 
Raffles, formed so many years earlier, and which had not 
been acted upon by any Government... .. An attempt 
proved unavailing to-day to be present at a meeting re- 
lating to the Mission to Borneo; the crowd overflowed 
from the large Hanover Square Rooms, and it is only 
to be hoped that the subseriptions may be in proportion 
to the zeal displayed in listening to and cheering Mr. 
Brooke. 


To Julius Schnorr von Carolsfeld. 


[Translation. ] London: Sunday, 20th November, 1847. 

(Last Sunday in the Church Year.) 

... The present day brings to mind afresh the solemn 
intelligence which you communicated to me a year ago, 
and with it the feeling of the debt I owe you; together 
with the consciousness of undisturbed affection and friend- 
ship faithfully preserved in my heart. Whatever letter I 
do not answer at the very moment, alas! falls directly into 
the mass of things heaped up and put by to the hoped-for 
time of alleviation of my burden of official and social 
avocations. But we have indeed all mourned with you, 
and at the same time hailed the grace given to you to re- 


JET. 56] LETTER TO JULIUS SCHNORR. 89 


ceive the heavy blow as a child of God from the hand of a 
Father. | 

This day brings many precious dead to our remem- 
brance ; and last of all, my truly-beloved Felix Mendelssohn. 
Within our family circle we have lost Elizabeth Fry, who 
by Ernest’s marriage had become his aunt. On the other 
hand, the house-circle has been widened: Ernest’s Eliza- 
beth, the beloved of all, has made me grandfather to a fine 
boy. Henry’s dear wife is also a real daughter to us, and 
Henry is as happy as man can be—with a Christian con- 
gregation, in a beautiful county of England, enjoying and 
spreading around him that fulness of blessing which 
makes the position of a country clergyman in England 
unique of its kind. We old ones are in good health, and 
in our accustomed cheerfulness. I havo lately published 
the newly-discovered ancient Ignatius, with some letters of 
my own to accompany it; and I have desired the Rauhe 
Haus to send you acopy. Other thingsareinhand. The 
critical state of the Evangelical Church in the fatherland 
urges me to declarations: I am not satisfied with the 
manner in which the King’s ideas of Church and State 
have been carried out. Freedom and Love have I inscribed 
upon my banner, against the heads of parties, each and 
severally. 

. . . [cannot give up the wish to receive you in this house, 
and to see the magnificent cartoons of Raphael with you. 
The journey is so easy! You would find here many who 
admire your works. Now forgive your old friend his long 
negligence in writing, and accept, with all yours, from us 
all the hcartiest grecting ! 


The following transaction referred to a private 
letter of the King, addressed to Queen Victoria, 
which it was his desire that Bunsen should deliver 
in a private audience to Her Majesty: at the same 
time Bunsen was informed by a letter from the King 


90 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [18+47. 


to himself, that the subject of the communication 
was political, relating to Neufchatel. Bunsen having 
requested instructions from Prince Albert received 
in reply an invitation, in the name of the Queen, to 
come immediately to Osborne House, in company 
with Lord Palmerston (to whom Her Majesty’s invi- 
tation was simultaneously despatched), that the let- 
ter might be read without infringement of constitu- 
tional rules. This statement will account for the 
emotion with which Bunsen announces having safely 
steered between conflicting difficulties. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
Osborne House: Sunday, 5th December, 1847. 


My Be.ovep,—God be thanked! All right! Better 
than could be hoped! I delivered my letter last night, in 
private audience, to Her Majesty,—not speechless, but 
without a speech—after eight, before dinner. | 

T had desired Lord Palmerston to tell me what he wished 
me todo. As an abstract Whig, he said, ‘ It was unheard- 
of, quite unusual, that a foreign Sovereign should write to 
the Sovereign of England on politics.’ ‘ But,’ said I, ‘ you 
praised the Queen and Prince Albert for their excellent 
letter on politics to the Queen of Portugal.’ ‘ Yes, but that 
was between relations.’ ‘And this between friends. But 
you are informed of the arrival, and of the contents of the 
letter, and will learn all that is init. I shall, in handing 
over the letter to the Queen, say nothing but a few compli- 
mentary phrases, and plead the King’s cause in the way 
the Queen will direct, in your presence, thenext day. Will 
that do?’ ‘Perfectly,’ he replied. And so Idid. The 
Queen read the letter before dinner, and came down ten 
minutes before nine. After dinner, Prince Albert told me 
that the Queen and he had had Lord Palmerston with them 


ZET. 56} VISITS THE QUEEN AT OSBORNE. Ot 


before dinner (from six to eight), and that we should to- 
morrow settle the answer. In the morning, the Prince 
translated the political part of the letter into English, and 
then discussed with Lord Palmerston the heads of an 
answer. Then I was called in to see the letter, and plead 
the King’s cause, for which I was quite prepared. .. . 


If the ground swell was strong in the mind of Bun- 
sen during this occasion of experiencing the accus- 
tomed kindness of the Queen and Prince Albert at 
Osborne, his return from thence In company with 
Lord Palmerston was attended by serious com- 
motion of the elements without. In the boat which 
brought them to the shore Lord Palmerston was 
requested to take the helm, as it would seem, to 
enable all hands to help in rowing through the un- 
usually rough sea. Bunsen observed, that he had not 
been before aware of the necessary connection he 
now observed between steering the vessel of the State 
and steering a common boat—whereto Lord Palmer- 
ston answered, ‘Oh! one learns boating at Cam- 
bridge, even though one may have learnt nothing 
better.” They landed in safety, but the train was 
gone. Lord Palmerston declared that he must return 
to London on pressing busmess, and must have a 
special train. The railway officials protested that the 
risk of collision was too great for them to undertake. 
Lord Palmerston insisted, ‘On my responsibility, 
then !’ and thus enforced compliance, although every 
one trembled but himself. The special train shot past 
station after station, and arrived in London without 
causing or receiving damage, the Directors refusing 
all payment from Lord Palmerston, as having trans- 


92 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


gressed all rules in order to comply with his desire, 
and considering themselves overpaid by the happy 
result and their own escape from serious blame. 


Contemporary Notice. 
22nd December, 1847. 


A Puseyite clergyman said to a friend who informed us, 
‘You know whom we have to thank for Dr. Hampden’s 
appointment ? It is all Bunsen’s doing; he prevailed upon 
the Queen to lay her commands upon Lord John.’ 

The fact is, that Dr. Hampden is as much unknown 
among us as a person can be, who has been brought before 
the public. At Oxford Bunsen saw him once, among many 
other people, but had neither conversation nor correspond- 
ence with him—in short, no acquaintance, and he had 
been inclined to think Dr. Arnold too violent in his defence 
in the ‘ Edinburgh Review ’ of 1888. But now he has set 
about examining his books, and as far as he has proceeded, he 
has so greatly approved the contents, that he may perhaps 
end where he was supposéd to have begun, by becoming 
his partisan. 


Bunsen to las Wife. (In Monmouthshire, whither she had 
been summoned in consequence of her Mother’s illness. ) 


Woburn Abbey: Wednesday, 29th December, 1847. 


The day after to-morrow I may hope to find in Carlton 
Terrace an account of your dear mother. The Duchess in- 
sisted most graciously on my staying till Monday, but as the 
Prince goes to Windsor on Friday, I could make it clear to 
her that I must be in town at the end of the year. Certainly 
one has not known England, if one has not scen this mag- 
nificent seat of the Russells; for although less sumptuous 
in architecture, furniture, and gardens than Chatsworth, 
and less mignon than Trentham, it is the most royal residence 
that I have seen in this country, as a whole establishment. 


JET. 56] VISIT TO WOBURN ABBEY. 93 


The house is in an immense square, the old monastic form, 
with a portico on each side. There is a tea-room, where 
the Duchess is to be found from five o’clock to half-past, 
and where you may refresh yourself on arriving (as I did): 
it is ornamented with a fine collection of bronzes, a splendid 
genealogical tree, and the silver spade with which the 
present Duke turned up the first sod on the track marked 
for the neighbouring railway, with the wheclbarrow used 
on the occasion. The agricultural element pervades the 
greater part of the decorations. . . . 

- The morning is spent in the magnificent library, a wide 
gallery divided into four compartments, the middle one 
occupying two-thirds of the length: there the company 
meet, or occupy themselves separately. The Duchess sent 
a golden key, with directions to Stafford O’Brien to conduct 
me to the gallery of statues, a detached building in the 
midst of a garden, like the Braccio Nuovo; a beautiful hall, 
wide and long, with statues antique and modern ; the Lante 
Vase (from the Villa of Hadrian) and the Sarcophagus of 
Ephesus form the principal ornaments, with a splendid 
mosaic from Rome, which occupies the centre. At the two 
extremities are flights of steps, each conducting to an ezedra, 
or sort of temple: in the one are the Graces of Canova, 
which I did not worship; but the other, the Temple of 
Liberty, the sanctuary of the Whigs, interested me much. 
The present Duke’s predecessor had the heads of the friends 
Fox and Grey modelled, and executed in marble, and he 
planned the temple ; when dying, he disclosed the secret of 
his intentions to his brother, who executed the idea faith- 
fully. Opposite the entrance is the colossal bust of Charles 
Fox, with verses on the pedestal written by Georgiana, 
Duchess of Devonshire. On each side there are two busts 
of smaller dimensions—Lord Grey’s is the only very fine 
head ; a certain Fitzpatrick looks like a satire upon a sena- 
torial countenance. IJ admire and relish the idea, so well 
suiting the residence of the head of that illustrious family 


94, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1847 


of Russell, with the martyr and his angelic wife among 
them. ... 


To the Same. 


Woburn Abbey: 31st December, 1847. 


My dearest love will receive these lines, whether in this 
year or the next, with the blessings of thankful love! My 
heart is always with you, and though I cannot say that I do 
not miss you hourly, I must in truth declare myself glad to 
know you are where you ought to be. Your dear letter 
reached me a minute after I had sent my last, and com- 
forted me by the enclosure in your dear mother’s hand; I 
trust I may find equally good intelligence to-morrow at home, 
whither I shall fight my way through all the kindnesses of 
the Duchess and the further temptation to stay longer from 
Lord and Lady John’s affectionate manner and agreeable 
conversation. | 

Yesterday was a day of satisfaction for the house of 
Russell, the news having arrived of Dr. Hampden’s election. 
Lord John had been much yexed in the latter days by the 
unreasonableness of the peuple he had to deal with—but 
yesterday at three o’clock, when we were collected in ex- 
pectation and talking against time, in came little Johnny,* 
escorted by his aunt-like sister, and stationed himself at the 
entrance of the library, distinctly proclaiming, like a herald, 
‘Dr. Hampden,—a Bishop!’ We cheered him, and some 
one asked him whether he hked Dr. H.—‘I don’t mind 
(was his answer), for I don’t know him.’ His father came 
in afterwards, radiant with satisfaction. After dinner I sug- 
cested as a toast ‘The Chapter of Hereford,’ adding sotto 
voce to Lord John, ‘and he who has managed them.’ 
Milnes and Stafford gave ‘The Dean,’ in opposition, and 
we were just divided, like the Chapter, two against fifteen. 
Lord John took all very kindly ; he talked politics all the 


* Now Viscount Amberley, M.P. 


LET. 56] THE RUSSELL FAMILY. 95 


evening, unreservedly, about France, Spain, and Portugal. 
What I admired in him most is his unvaried simplicity, and 
the absence not only of all boasting, but even of exultation, 
with the greatest openness, Lady John copies papers for 
her husband, and is a very strong Presbyterian and anti- 
Tractarian. She has invited herself to come to see us at 
Carlton Terrace when you return, and hear our children 
play and sing: the fame of which house-music has been 
spread afar, particularly by Lady de Clifford, who says she 
always comes out on the terrace when told that music is 
going on, especially to hear the singing of the tenor. .. . 


To the Same. 
4, Carlton Terrace: 31st December, 1847. 


Under other circumstances I certainly should have re- 
mained till Monday at Woburn, as I was indeed verysmuch 
pressed to do. The decision of the Hampden affair made 
the time yet more interesting. You will see in a few days 
an excellent letter of Lord John’s, an answer to an address 
of the clergy of Bedfordshire in favour of Hampden. He 
had waited for such an opportunity in order to speak fully 
his own mind on the subject. Yesterday I went with Lord 
John to the Gallery of Sculpture and the Temple ; then he 
played at tennis with Stafford O’Brien, and on returning to 
the house was met by the Duke, with copies of the letter 
to the clergy and other papers, which he, the Duke, had 
been revising for him. It is the Duke’s glory to help his 
brother, in whatever way he can. 

. Nowhere is hospitality practised on so grand a 
scale, or at least nowhere grander, than at Woburn Abbey ; 
every room is the perfection of all credible and incredible 
comforts for the guest—all meals in inconceivable perfection 
of arrangement. The Duchess enacts visibly the Queen and 
Duchess, and invisibly (in the intervals, by her directions) 
the supreme Majtresse d’Hétel. The Dowager Duchess 
assists her with much tact. The day after my arrival a 


96 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


banquet was given, with a display of all the wonderful silver 
services, gifts of Louis XV. to Duke John: the other days 
all was more simple. I have reflected much on the posi- 
tion of a Duke of Bedford or of Sutherland in the nineteenth 
century, and do not think it could be essentially more than 
what the present representatives make of it. The charm 
here is the historical and political standing of the House 
of Russell. The house is evidently the work of the first 
Duke, and then of Duke John, who made the Peace of Paris. 
I find all that was good in it was his merit, against Bute 
and Egremont; still Lord John justly blames him for 
having consented to keeping the transaction secret from 
Frederick the Great. 

My plans are these, D.V.,—4th January, to Althorp ; 8th, 
to Castle Ashby; 11th, to Peel: then home, and one or two 
days gt Broadlands, with Palmerston, who returns to town 
on the 20th, as do the Russells, who want to see Prince 
Lowenstein at Richmond Lodge before that date. The 
grief of the House is the abstraction of the Marquis of 
Tavistock, who writes daily most intelligent papers on po- 
litical subjects, but will noédive at Woburn, nor take any 
part in active life. 

On the whole, I would not be the Duke of Bedford for all 
his income, if I was to lead his life but for one year. 


To the Same. 
Althorp: Thursday, 6th January, 1848. 


I have been very lazy ‘here, and that ever since I had 
your precious letter! The fact is, I have so much here to say, 
and to do, that I scarcely have time to limp out for an hour, 
and then I must rest till dinner time. Be not uneasy about 
me,—it is nothing but flying rheumatism, one day in one 
leg, another in the other, with toothache, sometimes to the 
left, sometimes the right. The library is unique : so is the 
gallery for family portraits, and originals of illustrious men, 


Montaigne, Arnauld, also Sacharissa and her husband, who 


ZET, 56] THE NEAPOLITAN REVOLUTION. 97 


resided here. Wan de Weyer and I live in the library. 
Host and hostess very kind and agreeable. To-morrow 
George and I go to Lord Northampton’s, Tuesday to Peel’s, 
from whence home on the 15th, and not stir a step, unless 
I must. 

Carlton Terrace: Friday, 7th January.—Here I am, my 
dearest ; my last evening and night were so uncomfortable 
‘from the pains I mentioned, that I resolved to cut short 
the proposed visits. Whether or not I go to Peel must 
depend upon the pain ; but what I can say already is, that 
I feel verycomfortable here, at my desk, in my room, in our 
dear house, with the good faces around me. 

Saturday, 8th Janwary.—I read last night Bancroft, with 
increasing admiration. What a glorious and interesting 
history has he given to his nation, of the centuries before the 
Independence. The third volume is a masterpiece; after 
having displayed all the plans and decrees of the monarchs 
of Europe from 1741 to 1748, he brings in ‘the son of a 
widow, gaining his livelihood by surveying land in remote 
and uninhabited districts—George Washington.’ 


Bunsen to lus Wee. 
| Translation. ] 4, Carlton Terrace: 3rd February, 1848. 

This is a grand day for politics! I can hardly keep my 
pen in order. The King of Naples has proclaimed, on 
Saturday last, January 29th, for his whole kingdom, the 
Constitution of Lord Wiliam Bentinck, given in 1812 to 
Sicily. O the Nemesis ! 

This rather crude, but not democratic, copy of the British 
Constitution, was given in spite of Caroline (who fled under 
execrations), and of Ferdinand, who abdicated. Francesco 
sanctioned it. 

Then Napoleon fell, and Castlereagh disowned the work ot 
Bentinck. The Constitution was abolished. Ferdinand pro- 
mised a Charte, ad la Louis XVIII; we know the scheme oi 
it,—it was never even finished, far less introduced. 

VOL. II. H 


98 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 


In 1815, the King, instead of all Constitutions, after 
a preamble, confirmed the ‘privileges granted to the 
Sicilians,’ and gave an Edict of Administration, a la mode 
de 0 Empire. 

In 1820, that reaction produced a revolution, which was 
put down by force in 1821. 

Then a quarter of a century, twenty-six years, absolutist 
misgovernment, which we have seen ! 

And now, wp to January 12, the Sicilians would have 
been satisfied, as well as the Neapolitans, with reforms d lu 
Pio Nono. January 12 wasto bethe day of decision. All 
was prepared for the outbreak; no publication appeared ; 
the people set to work ; Palermo was bombarded forty-eight 
hours, but resisted. The King’s heart sank, and he yielded. 
One eminent characteristic of this King 1s his fear—an heir- 
loom from father and grandfather. 

The consequences may be immense—incalculable. Lega 
Italiana—the Pope driven to secularise his government ; 
Sardinia and Tuscany to give a Constitution! Iam afraid 
that the waves set in motion by this event may be tvo 
boisterous for the frail Italian vessel. May God lead them 
to wisdom ! 





Bust of Bunsen, by Behnes. 


CHAPTER XIII. . 
AGITATION IN EUROPE. 


THE REVOLUTION OF THE 24TH FEBRUARY—BARON STOCKMAR AT 
FRANKFORT—THE RISING AT BERLIN—PRINCE OF PRUSSIA ARRIVES AT 
CARLTON TERRACE—TOTTERIDGE—-LETTER TU MR. REEVE ON GERMAN 
PROGRESS-——-EXCURSION TO GERMANY—CONFLICT BETWEEN FRANKFORT 
AND BERLIN-—BUNSEN ADHERES TO THE PRUSSIAN SIDE--STATE OF 
BERLIN-- RETURNS TO ENGLAND —MEMOIR ON EVENTS AT BERLIN. 


THis narrative of the life of Bunsen has now been 
brought down to the time when the French Revolution 
of February 24, 1848, changed the aspect of Europe, 
gave the signal of a general convulsion, and power- 
fully affected the lives and opinions of all those who 
were called upon to take any part in the momentous 
series of events which ensued. 


U2 


100 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


_ Bunsen’s deep interest in them, especially as they 
concerned the future welfare of Germany, is fully 
expressed in his correspondence from this date. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Cariton Terrace: Monday, 28th February, 1848. 


... We are all awe-struck and melancholy at this 
terrible state of things in France; and how is such a mob 
government to go on without war to employ the idle and 
flagitious hands demanding mischief ? 

On Saturday evening we were rejoiced to see our friend 
Max Miller arrive from Paris safeand sound. He had gone 
there a fortnight before to examine a manuscript, and 
found himself caught in the midst of a revolution. He went 
about the streets, and saw all he could, and got away on 
Thursday night by climbing over three different barricades 
in the direction of the railway to Havre, which, close to the 
station, had been broken up, but further on was in a con- 
dition to be used. The description he gives of the Pande- 
monium in the strects, th€’aspect of the savages, the wanton 
firing of shots aimed at quiet spectators, sometimes by 
mere boys (one of whom was heard to boast, ‘J’en ai tué 
trois!’), brings very close to us, as 1t were, scenes from 
which we believed ourselves separated by a long course of 
years. Jt is said that robbery is not to be apprehended, but 
destruction is the object. 

On Saturday, Bunsen dined with Sir Robert Pcel, and 
went afterwards to Lady Palmerston’s. I wanted to be 
told what people said—what people expected. He an- 
swered : ‘ Everybody is stunned.’ . ... It would seem as if 
the Ministerial difficulties would be much helped by tlic 
wars, and rumours of wars;’ people will feel that if the 
money had been spent it must be made up for somewhere, 
and in contemplation of a French debordement the idea of 
national defences being put in repair will not seem un- 
reasonable. 


Er. 56] THE RISING AT BERLIN. 101 


Bunsen to Usedom. 
(Translation. ] 
London: on the 22nd day after the Second Deluge, 
15th March, 1848. 

My pear Frienp,—Your arrival and that of Stockmar 
in Frankfort, as it were. on the same day, has been the 
fulfilment of two of my unceasingly cherished wishes of two 
months’ standing. Stockmar is one of the first politicians 
of Germany and of Europe—the disciple of Stein—staff- 
surgeon to the Sth corps d’armée, and superintendent 
of the military hospital in Worms—preceptor of Prince 
Albert—the friend and private adviser of Prince Leopold, 
afterwards King of the Belgians—finally, the confidential 
friend both of Lord Melbourne and of Sir Robert Peel :— 
that is the man who now represents Coburg at Frank- 
fort, to advocate which measure I earnestly advised, 
and Prince Albert as urgently entreated, Stockmar himself 
to undertake that position. Pray go to him directly: after 
«un hour’s intercourse you will partas friends. So much for 
the present. I love Stockmar sincerely, and he loves me. 
1 have no secret from him. 

Day and night I repeat: Only unity with one accord,— 
within three weeks at most. .. . 

No one in England any longer believes in our future. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Thursday, 23rd March. 


. From the papers as much may be known as we 
know of the awful scenes at Berlin. The result—the break- 
ing up of the Ministry, and the King’s awakening con- 
sciousness of the realities and necessities of things, in which 
he could not bring himself to believe, when for years sv 
many and various faithful servants have tried to obtain a 
hearing for their statements—rouses Bunsen’s sanguine 
nature to hope for the future. The choice of Ministers is 
on the whole that which it was to be hoped the King would 


102 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1848 


have made, at the close of the Diet (Veremigte Landtag) 
last: summer,—they being the individuals who commanded 
the confidence of that popular assembly. But now that 
they have been set a-going they have an immense work to 
do, and if they had been at it for the last eight months, the 
whole insurrection might have been prevented. The sha- 
dow of this event came beforehand, in the shape of a report 
from Paris of the King’s having abdicated, which many 
people believed in London the day before yesterday, and 
there was almost need of an extra servant to take in all the 
notes and visitors and enquiries at the door. Several of the 
notes contained kind offers of hospitality, if the King was 
coming to England—houses in town and country placed at 
his disposal. But everybody was answered that the King 
had certainly not deserted his post,—would certainly not 
sneak away; and that has proved to be a fact. 1 cannot 
get the awful scene from before my mind’s eye, when the 
slain were carried in solemn procession before the. windows 
of the King’s Palace—within the very court-yard; the 
bearers singing a hymn uswal at funerals: calling upon the 
King, who not only appeared at the window, but came 
down, uncovering his head at sight of the funeral procession 
—spoke to the people, was cheered, and, after a pause, all 
sung the hymn of thanksgiving (for promises received) 
which you have heard my children sing. People and King 
are made of different stuff to those of Paris! 


Bunsen to Stockmar. 
[Translation.]| London: Saturday evening, 25th March, 1848. 


A solemn seriousness ought now to fill the heart of every 
German: for without that, without self-conquest and self- 
control, we fall into the hands of Nemesis. 


On the morning of March 27, at eight o’clock, his 
Royal Highness the Prince of Prussia arrived at 
No. 4, Carlton Terrace, unannounced, and causing as 


Zit. 56] PRINCE OF PRUSSIA AT CARLTON TERRACE. 108 


much surprise as if, on reading the notice in the 
papers two days before his having retired from Berlin, 
the possibility of his directing his course towards 
England had not occurred to the mind of Bunsen. 
The Prince was pleased to accept the proposal to 
make a speedy arrangement of rooms for his resi- 
dence in the abode of the Prussian Legation. Some 
members of the family were at once quartered with 
friends, to make room for part of his Royal Highness’s 
suite; Ernest Bunsen, with his wife and child, 
having been received under the hospitable roof of 
Mr. and Mrs. Hudson Gurney, in St. James’s Square 
—therefore, so close at hand, as to enable Ernest to 
assist his father in daily attendance upon his Royal 
Highness, and in ordering things, as well as circum- 
stances allowed, to lessen the inconvenience of such 
a provisional mode of life to the honoured guest. 
Prince Lowenstein remained the only inmate of the 
house—being Counsellor of Legation. Extracts from 
letters, written during the period following this event, 
will furnish a slight sketch of the external circum- 
stances at a time of great commotion and excitement, 
almost to distraction, in Bunsen’s life ;—a time me- 
morable in the annals of Prussia by the close and 
appreciating study which the heir presumptive to her 
Crown applied to the working of the British Consti- 
tution. 

The dignity, the manly cheerfulness, the gracious 
kindness, the constant regard for others’ convenience, 
which marked from first to last the Prince’s demean- 
our, demand all the testimony that words can give, 
und the whole of the details remain deeply imprinted 


304. MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


on grateful hearts. It was indeed with zeal, the result 
of cordial devotedness, that Bunsen and each member 
of his family made their best efforts in his service ; 
but the manner in which services were acknowledged 
and accepted as ‘ kindness,’ which were but the fulfil- 
ment of bounden duty, will not be forgotten, while 
life is granted to the writer of these lines. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Carlton Terrace: Wednesday, 29th March, 1848. 

. . . I think all the business of accommodating the Prince 
has been got well through ; and if on the one hand one has 
trouble, on the other one is saved trouble, for of course no 
visitors are let in, and thus we can remain quiet. One great 
business on Monday was making out the list of persons to 
be sent to, and put off—as we had made invitations for a 
series of Tuesday evenings. This day the Prince will dine 
with the Duke of Cambridge; we were to have dined at 
Lansdowne House, but that was put off on account of the 
Cambridge House dinner, and at last Bunsen will not attend 
the Prince thither, for he is not well, having been obliged 
to stay late in bed these three mornings with a feverish 
cold; and thus we cannot go to Devonshire House either. 
The Prince came to breakfast with us all at ten o’clock, and 
was very amiable. IF. had fetched an armchair, and placed 
it in the centre of one side of the table ; but the Prince put 
it away himself and took another, saying, ‘One ought to be 
humble now, for thrones are shaking ;’ then I sat on one 
side of him, and he desired Frances to take her place on the 
other. He related everything that came to his knowledge 
of the late awful transactions. 

One longs to perceive in what manner a bridge can be 
constructed for his return home. He expresses much con- 
cern and scruple about the trouble he occasions; but now 
the arrangement has been made possible, it is infinitely pre- 
ferable that he should be here, where we can watch over 


fEr. 56] PRINCE OF PRUSSIA AT CARLTON TERRACE. 105 


everything and know what is wanted, rather than his having 
to hire a place of abode; and it is also much fitter for him 
to stay here than anywhere else. I have had a walk in the 
park, while Ernest attended on the Prince at his luncheon. 
The Prince reminds me much of his father the late King, in 
the expression of truth and kindliness in his face. 

. . « We have had our prospect again for the last week— 
the park and the Abbey becoming visible after three months’ 
for. 

Contemporary Notice. 
Carlton Terrace: 4th April, 1848. 

Friday, 7th April—Our great dinner party went off well. 
Iam glad to feel sure that all was successful, and looked as 
well as we wished it should, to show all respect to our good 
Prince, who was censé to reccive the guests himself—the 
house of the Prussian Legation being, in the first place, his 
residence. The Duke of Cambridge had an inflammation 
in his foot, and was forbidden by Keate to move, so he was 
obliged to send an excuse, and I am sure we regretted his 
unfailing goodnature and animation ; but the Duchess was 
very gracious, and has always much conversation. Before 
the guests had retired I learnt that my poor son Charles had 
arrived, having made a desperate effort to break away from 
Naumburg, without awaiting the end of his rheumatic fever, 
so stiffened in his limbs as to need being helped like a child. 
Not till all had departed could I go and welcome him, and 
was shocked at the sight. He had received most benevolent 
help from a Danish gentleman, with whom he crossed over 
the sea, and who saw him safe into the conveyance which 
brought him from the steamer. This proved to be a well 
known political writer, against whom Bunsen had been 
bound in duty to defend his King and the acts of Prussia in 
no mild manner. No one was ever more incapable than 
Bunsen of blending personal with political animosity; and 
assuredly in the case of the political antagonist in ques- 
tion (as a man entirely unknown to him) nosuch feelings 


106 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


existed, But it was with one of the many pangs attending 
this period of political feud that Bunsen had to discover in 
the kind and helpful fellow-traveller of his invalid son, to 
whose truly Danish goodnature he paid a heartfelt tribute 
of gratitude, the keen opponent whom he had keenly met in 
the battlefield of opinion.* 


Contemporary Notice. 
Carlton Terrace: 10th April, 1848. 


I had a walk before breakfast with T round the park 
this beautiful day, which, God grant, may close unstained 
with bloodshed ! Nothing was to he remarked but a few 
more policemen, and not so many passers-by as usual. At 
breakfast, the Prince’s aides-de-camp expressed surprise that 
I should have ventured out. I declared the impossibility 
on my part of believing that any disturbance would take 
place. On Saturday evening we had all been at Lady Pal- 
merston’s, when Bunsen approached the Duke of Welling- 
ton, saying, ‘Your Grace will take us all in charge, and 
London too, on Monday, tHe 10th ?’? (This day being that 
of the expected Chartist disturbance, on the occasion of 
presenting to Parliament the monster petition.) The Duke 
answered, ‘Yes, we have taken our measures; but not a 
soldier nor a piece of artillery shall you see, unless in actual 
need. Should the force of law—the mounted or unmounted 
police—be overpowered or in danger, then the troops shall 
advance—then is their time. But it is not fair on either 
side to call them in to do the work of police—the military 
must not be confounded with the police, nor merged in the 
police.” These were his words, as well as I can give them 
at second-hand; and grand are the maxims of political 
wisdom they imply. 





* The Danish gentleman’s name was Orla Lehmann, 


ZEt. 56] THE ‘LAND CREDIT’ SYSTEM. 107 


Extract of a Letter to Bunsen, from Herr von Schin, formerly 
Prussian Minister of State, dated Kénigsberg, April 15, 1848. 


[Translation. ] 


Your letter proves that England, however exclaimed 
against on the Continent as ultra Conservative, is, according 
to the order of the universe, in continual and steady progress. 
Hail to the example, for all States ! 

According to your desire, I send the outline of our land 
credit system ; and, in my opinion, such an institution might 
well be formed in Ireland, if the principle of our establish- 
ment should be sanctioned by Act of Parhament. There 
is, indeed, as yet no mortgage-system in Ireland; but with 
respect to the general guarantee, an Act of Parliament might 
supply that want, by declaring all Irish landed properties 
to be liable for the mortgage debts of each individual estate. 
For, with respect to the debts upon individual estates, the 
Quarter Sessions might take the place of our Mortgage Com- 
missioners, in keeping a register of cstates indebted to the 
land credit system, in which the debt of the estate would 
be specified, primo loco. The English mind would find the 
chief difficulty in allowing the Land Credit Association to 
act independently in collecting the interest themselves in 
the shortest way, without judicial authority ; but I suppose 
there the Sheriff might enter as an intermediate authority. 
The institution might, in my opinion, be of great use, more 
especially for Ireland, if managed with prudence. 


Contemporary Notice. 
Monday morning: 30th April; Totteridge. 
How we have enjoyed being here since Saturday afternoon 
I cannot describe. We were out for hours after returning 
from church, sitting and sauntering and reading in the 
charming garden, and in the finest weather. .. . I am glad 
to have waked early this morning, thus being enabled to 
write ; for as soon as we have breakfasted, I must drive to 


108 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


town directly, and plunge into the turmoil—going to the 
Queen’s Ball in the evening. 

Totteridge : 2nd May.—Yesterday, after disposing of much 
business, we were surprised by the appearance of Ernest and 
his father, Count Pourtalés, and Harry Arnim (nephew of 
our friends sent over as courier), who came to stay all night, 
and have left us this morning. Bunsen, having been, alas! 
quite ill, had excused himself from Lady Douglas’s, where 
the Prince was to dine—and thus took a few hours’ leave 
of absence. I trust he may go on better again. I think 
him grown a year older during these two months of violent 
excitement and no quiet. Ob how thankful I am for this 
Totteridge! Could I but describe the groups of fine trees, 
the turf and terrace-walks! I should like to know its his- 
tory. In one room hangsa plan of the estate (now belong- 
ing to Dr. Lee, the owner of Hartwell Hall in Buckingham- 
shire), where it is said to have belonged (about a century 
ago) to Viscount Bateman. The present meadows formed a 
park with many deer in it till about twenty years ago. 

ma 


Bunsen to Henry Reeve, Hsq. (On the Draft of a Constitution 
Jor the German Confederacy.) 
(Translation. | 
Saturday morning: 6th May, 1848, half-past seven o'clock. 

With heart and mind thus prepared, you have taken the 
Draft and its great object into consideration ; you have 
conceived both in their relative import to the world’s 
history ; you render justice to both,—and yet you have not 
attained to a belief in our future. 

What is with you essentially opposed to this is your 
rigorously conservative view as to the origin of the present 
Constitutional movement. You say poetically, ‘The truly 
animating principle comes from above—the shades of Endor 
rise out of the abyss.’ 

Let me follow up this idea, in wales to convince you that 
our struggle for freedom has rightly originated—that is 


aT. 56] LETTER ON GERMAN PROGRESS. 109 


from the Spirit—descendit celo. Was not its beginning 
indeed from above, in the minds of the great thinkers, 
who, from Lessing and Kant down to Schelling and Hegel, 
have, in conflict with the materialism of the past century 
and the mechanism of the present, proved both the reality 
and essentiality of reason, and the independence and free- 
dom of moral consciousness, and have thereby roused the 
nation to enthusiasm for the ideal of true liberty ? And 
did not poetry and the fine arts take the same way ? 
What is the signification of Géthe in the world’s history, 
if not that he had a clear intuition of those triths, and the 
art of giving them due utterance? Wherein consists the 
indestructible charm of Schiller’s poetry, but that he has 
sung as hymns to the supernal, supernatural, those de- 
ductions of philosophy ? 

Now to proceed to the time of our deepest depression, 
and of our highest elevation,—from 1807 to 1813. That 
which now would and should and must enter into life, was 
then generated, in the midst of woe and misery, in blood 
and in prayer,—but also in belief in that ideal, to the true 
recognition and realising of which the feeling of an exist- 
ing fatherland and of popular freedom is indispensable. 
Truly prophetical (as the truth must always be) are the 
words of Schenkendorf in 1813, ‘ Freiheit, die ich meine,’ 
&c., and ‘Wie mir deine Freuden winken,’ &c. And also 
Arndt with his grand rhapsody, ‘Was ist des Deutschen 
Vaterland ?’ and Koérner’s melodies of death, and Riickert’s 
songs, brilliant and penetrating as steel! All that may 
sound to the foreigner as mere poctic feeling: but to us, 
who then pronounced the vows of early youth, it was a 
most holy and real earnest, the utterance of overflowing 
hearts. And thus it remained to us; and our children 
learned from us to repeat the vow; and when we lay twenty- 
five years long in heavy bondage, when the very freedom 
of speech was suppressed, then through all suffering the 
spirit of liberty took refuge in the sanctuary of knowledge ; 


110 -MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1848 


but, not as was the case with our fathers, to expatiate in 
untried regions and seek freedom only in contemplation 
and speculation, but to fetch down the highest blessings of 
common life, as the poets of the former generation had in 
a vision beheld them, and as Scharnhorst and Stein and 
Niebuhr and Wilhelm von Humboldt had grasped them in 
will and wish. Then was the younger generation in- 
structed by persecuted men, that liberty is ancient and 
tyranny modern, and that to liberty alone belongs that 
legitimacy which unsound politicians have used as a weapon 
for her destruction. Then it was that English empiricism, 
French abstractions, and the feeble imitation of both in 
the new Constitutions of Southern Germany, were com- 
pared with history and with the true ideal—and a higher 
standing point was aimed at and gained for all. Thus 
did the year 1840 find us; but the hopes which that 
year brought were not finally realised. King and people 
(as Beckerath finely expressed it in the year 1844) spoke 
wholly different languages, and lived in different centuries. 
The path became dark, anf when the lightning and storm 
had ceased, the old state of things had vanished. Since 
then, seventy-three days have passed, and we are living, 
and the Draft of a Constitution was accomplished before 
seventy of those days had elapsed. 

Descendit costo, if ever that could be said of a popular 
movement named in history—in the humble form which is 
ever assigned to the Divine, revealedin humanity. Dragged 
in the mire by knaves, hung round with bells by the weak- 
minded, schooled by the ignorant, the work of liberty has 
not been crushed by any class of enemies. As a heavenly 
birth she is making her way through foaming waves, and, 
in the power of the Spirit, she has lifted her foot out of 
the depths, to place it upon the rock of law and right— 
a position well earned by her forty years’ wandering 
through the desert, amid the raging of nations, the vain 
fears and imaginations of Princes, the scorn and mistrust 


Air, 56.] LETTER TO USEDOM. 111 


of France and of England, actual insurrection, and latent 
anarchy. 

Descendit calo. Our Draft of a Constitution, the first- 
fruit of German political energy, is not a ‘ Declaration des 
Droits de l’Homme;’ it is not one of the numerous tran- 
scripts of the parchment Magna Charta upon continental 
blotting-paper; it is not the aping of the American or 
even of the Belgian constitution; it is as peculiar as the 
nation to which it offers a form. A nation! rather, many 
nations:—no nation, and yet a nation! and, so may 1 
please the Almighty, a great and afree nation! not one of 
yesterday, but of a thousand years of fame and of suffering. 
I cannot claim from you the enthusiasm I feel for the 
work which is the weighty subject-matter of the Draft in 
question: but I crave belief in it from you, for the very 
same reason that you, the true disciple of Burke, demand 
confidence in your own political faith. 

I am ready to give up to you the Committee of Fifty, and 
the seventeen ‘men of trust,’ and the entire Diet: but 
though the Fifty, and both assemblies of Seventeen were 
blown to the winds like the free corps of Herwegh and 
Hecker, yet the rock around which they collected will 
remain,—that is, Germany and the German people, even 
though humbled and torn in pieces for a thousand years, to 
many a mockery, to all an enigma! 


Bunsen to Usedom. 
{ Translation. } London: 17th May, 1848. 


... Peel said to me three weeks ago :—‘ Let not-Germany 
attempt to speak a word in Kuropean politics for six weeks 
—not till you are constituted. You speak in the feeling of 
a future m which we do not believe.’ 

Thus, we must with honour, but quickly, close the Schles- 
wig affair :—that is, here on this spot, by means of a protocol, 
conclude an armistice, 


112 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


Contemporary Notice. 
Carlton Terrace: Wednesday, 31st May, 1848. 


.. . As I was rising at six, Bunsen informed me that 
the courier, who had arrived late the night before, had 
decided the Prince to start immediately. Therefore I re- 
mained over breakfast-time to take leave. The Prince spoke 
most kindly and touchingly—‘ thanking for kindness re- 
ceived ’—-and saying that ‘in no other place or country 
could he have passed so well the period of distress and 
anxiety which he had gone through, as here, having so much 
to interest and occupy his mind both in the country and in 
the nation.’ ... After witnessing the departure of the Prince 
of Prussia, Bunsen came here [{Totteridge]| late on Sunday 
night, the 28th, and on Monday took his share with us of 
the luxury of sun and air, and rest and quiet, after walking 
with me in the morning (a rare treat—to go out in the very 
glory and perfection of the day, and such a day!) to High 
Wood, to fetch Lady Raffles. We sat on the dry turf, under 
the shadow of those lofty fif's, the pride of Totteridge. On 
Monday evening, we all returned to town, and to cares and 
bustle. 


Bunsen to Mis. Waddington. 
Carlton Terrace: 1st July, 1848. 


My pEaR Moruer,—I should long since have written to 
give you a sign of life, from the midst of this Second Deluge, 
if [ had not believed you had intelligence sufficient to con- 
vince you that we were still above water. But on the morn- 
ing of this anniversary, I must address a line to her, whose 
dear, kind image is always before me on the recurrence of 
that blessed day which made your Fanny mine, without 
tearing her away from your heart. Who would not be thank- 
ful?—and I hope I feel so more than ever in this fateful 
year. In the midst of the crushing of thrones, administra- 
tions, and favourites in Germany, in the abeyance of all 


Hir.56] REFLECTIONS ON GERMANY IN 18948. —«2118 


authority, in the birth-pangs of a nation of forty-five mil- 
lions, I not only have not been crushed, but I have received 
proofs of confidence more than ever, not only from successive 
Governments in my own country, but also from the nation 
at large. If I am thankful for all this, I am still more so for 
being conscious of perfect tranquillity of mind (which is 
God’s own gift), in looking to the future for myself and all 
mine, and for my dear country. It is not the tranquillity of 
apathy, but of conviction that all will be right in the end, 
in Germany, because country and nation are sound in heart, 
—but only in the end. 

My beloved King is in the position of one who, not having 
acted at his own time and opportunity, when present, is 
now obliged to see the nation act for him. . . . With all the 
facts that support my hopes, it 1s too possible that, as long 
as I live, I may not see the great work of regeneration com- 
plete: but at least I have seen its beginning, such as I 
looked forward to with all the friends of my youth, and with 
all my honoured elders—Stein, Niebuhr, Gneisenan, and 
others—thirty-four years ago, when it ought to have been 
accomplished, and when it could have been done in peace. 
In this country, the cause I have at heart has to encounter 
two great enemies: first, a commercial jealousy of one 
united Germany; and secondly, that apathy which is the 
offspring of egotism and the parent of ignorance. I have 
unspeakable satisfaction in saying this openly, when I hear 
rudotage about Germany. . . . The English press has done 
but too much to make the name of England an object of 
hatred. Fortunately, it must be the interest of both coun. 
tries to stand well together; and we can dispense with 
English sympathies. As to myself, although all delusions 
have been destroyed as to the politics of England, I shall 
never cease to be attached to it, and never forget the kind. 
ness I have received, and am receiving, from so many per- 
sons in this country, or cease to be grateful for the practical 
understanding of life which I owe entirely to my stay in it; 


e VOL. Ii. I 


114 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


and the blessings, above all, which through my connection 
with an English family, through your and Fanny’s kindness 
and affection, have become my portion ! 

And so I end as I began, with the assurance of being your 
truly grateful and attached son, of thirty-one years’ stand- 
ing, Bunsen. 


To the Same. 
Carlton Terrace: 4th July, 1848. 


My heart is too much moved by one of the kindest and 
most loving letters I ever was blessed with, not to yield to 
the impulse of responding to it immediately, hoping, how- 
ever, that you will never think of sending me any answer 
except from time to time the single words, ‘My dear son,’ 
‘Your affectionate mother.’ How these words penetrate to 
the inmost of my heart! I was afraid of having worried 
you with details of opinion, but I wrote what was uppermost 
in my mind, hoping on that account to be forgiven. How 
kind in you to take so encguraging an interest in all I have 
communicated to you! ... 

I send for your kind acceptance a copy of my ‘ Egypt in 
English, out of which your daughter, when she arrives, will 
read to you some passages containing thoughts which may 
interest you. ... 


Bunsen to Stockmar. 
[ Translation. ] London: 15th July, 1848. 


Gothe says :—‘ What man wishes in youth becomes his 
portion in age.” My case is yet better: what I wished for 
Prussia will (it is to be hoped) be fulfilled for Germany. 
You need not be told that the articles of the ‘ Deutsche Zeit- 
ung’ concerning yourself, are written as out of my very 
heart. May you but feel the courage to accept such a great 
and high proposal! I hear from various sides that you are 
the person in view for the German Ministry of Foreign 
Affairs. You should have seen the look of Lord P. when I 


Er. 56] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 115 


told him the news, as a diplomatic report. ‘That would be 
a happy choice indeed! He is one of the best political 
heads I have ever met with.’ 

. . - The-Queen and the Prince maintain an admirable 
position: it is a true pleasure to me to observe how the 
Prince becomes more and more known for what he is. 
Belgium is here, too, looked upon as a pattern country, and 
King Leopold highly honoured. 

There is no difficulty to be anticipated here, in the recog- 
nition of the German Empire—when once it shall exist. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (After receiving a call to Berlin.) 
f Translation. } 25th July, 1848. 

. . . Beust writes to Kielmansegge, that the post is to 
be offered tome, which Kamphausen has refused—that of 
Minister of Foreign Affairs for the German Empire. Who 
knows whether there be any truth in this ? 

Whoever now accepts the post will leap into the abyss 
of Curtius. It may be a duty so todo; but, oh! not fruit- 
lessly. ... 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] 
Cologne: Sunday morning, half-past six; 30th July, 1848. 

Here I an, sitting with my three sons, the glorious bells 
of the cathedral ringing in the thanksgiving for Germany’s 
Reichsverweser, or Administrator of the Empire (the ca- 
thedral itself is to be ready for opening on August 14, 1848, 
the first time since August 14, 1248) ; all soldiers with the 
citizens going about in their gold, black, and red cockades. 

When I alighted here, I saw George with Helmentag. He 
brought me a message from the old Oracle—‘ Accept. I have 
declared that I will accept the Premiership, if you take the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs.” Thile writes the same. But 
at Berlin they are not at all desirous I should... . 


12 


116 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


Contemporary Letter, 
30th July, 1848. 


.... After you had departed on Friday eveniny, Lord 
Ashley came in, direct from the chair of a meeting about 
the Ragged Schools. Nine young people, seven boys and 
two girls, who had distinguished themselves by good con- 
duct, were to embark for Australia next day, and Lord Ash- 
ley was going to Deptford to see them off. He believes that 
Serious measures will be taken to help off the young genera- 
tion of these helpless ones to another soil. The night before, 
he had been at the meeting which the 270 thieves had en- 
treated him to give them : he and Jackson, the distinguished 
City Missionary, and the thieves constituted the assembly. 
The unhappy men were quiet, respectful, and thankful,— 
communicating particulars of their wretchedness, represent- 
ing that they would do any work, submit to any labour,— 
but that, without character as they were, no possibility 
existed for them of access“to the overstocked labour-market. 
Lord Ashley promised them another meeting, after he should 
have had an interval in which to consider and consult as to 
a plan for helping them. The greater part were individually 
known to Jackson—he had talked to them, read to them ; 
but it was not his suggestion that they should apply to Lord 
Ashley—they thought of it, and consulted him on the sub- 
ject. When this communication was finished with reference 
to the criminal population of London and their miseries, 
Dr. Sieveking stated that he knew of a sphere of wretched- 
ness yet more affecting—that of industrious, respectable 
tradespeople and mechanics, people who had never begged, 
or committed any offence against society, who yet knew not 
which way to turn for employment and means of subsistence. 
He had a district in the parish of St. Pancras, where it 
would seem that much was done for the poor; but the 
families whom he attended as a physician had more need of 
nourishment than of medicine: and the distress was not to 


Zr. 56] OFFERED MINISTRY FOR FOREIGN AFFAIRS. 117 


be described of seeing want and privation which had not 
been incurred by any misconduct... . 


This passage, like many other ‘ contemporary no- 
tices,’ 1s inserted to mark some images in surrounding 
scenes, through which the track of Bunsen’s life 
was laid, which excited in him intense interest and 
sympathy, but as to many of which no written words 
of his own are tobe found. With respect tothe con- 
ditions of misery here indicated, much was done in al- 
leviation: and the many prayers which accompanied 
the efforts of Christian charity, in well-conceived 
and zealously-effected plans, have been heard and 
answered—even though ‘ the poor cease not from the 
land,’ and, wherever man is found, evil of every kind 
remains to be striven against. 


Letter to Archdeacon Hare. 
2nd August, 1648. 


Dear FRIEND,—Bunsen charged me, on the morning of his 
last day at home, to write and express his regret not to have 
had time to take leave of you, and explain the circumstances 
attending his departure. 

A letter arrived on Tuesday, the 25th July, to signify offi- 
cially the commands of the King, that Bunsen should come 
immediately to Berlin, ‘for a few days’ consultation,’—at 
the same time letters from more quarters than one, and pub- 
lic report even in newspapers, declared the intention to be 
to offer him the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the ‘German 
Empire.” Still, of this nothing has been communicated offi- 
cially. I shall not attempt to describe the complication of 
feelings called forth by the suspense of the crisis, nor how I 
dread his being dragged into the Maelstrom. I can only bear 
witness to his determination not to accept any apparent dig- 
nity, unless the power essential to usefulness, and suitable 


118 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


instruments, should be granted with it: and he continued 
of opinion that he was more likely to be able to serve his 
country at his post in England than anywhere else. He was 
expected at Berlin on the 26th, the day when the Archduke 
John was to be there,—the meeting of course was impossible, 
as the summons reached him only the day before. 

The Queen and Prince Albert desired to have seen him at 
Osborne House before his departure, and he did not feel at 
liberty to delay anether day. He lost no more time in set- 
ting out than,could be avoided, but he had promised to be 
present at the German dinner in celebration of the appoint- 
ment of the Archduke as Reichsverweser, and in honour of 
German unity, which took place on Thursday, the 27th July. 
Bunsen embarked on Friday night, the 28th. 

The renewal of hostilities in Schleswig will prove Bunsen 
to be right, in a way he will deeply regret. After he had 
been authorised to treat through the mediation of England 
( which his own personal weight with the Ministry here was 
chiefly instrumental in obtaining, for they frowned on the 
whole concern and were,jmwilling to have anything todo 
with it), and when, through that powerful mediation, favour- 
able and possible terms were made out, to establish the prin- 
ciple upon which preliminaries of peace might have rested, 
Bunsen refusing to consent to an armistice till that shonld 
be settled,—suddenly did the Government at Berlin, as if 
forgettang what had been authorised to be transacted in 
London, arrange an armistice, without settling prelimina- 
ries; thus causing the withdrawal of England’s mediation. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
(Translation. } Berlin: Thursday, 8rd August, 1848. 
This day (as the papers mention the Frankfort offer) I 
have delivered to the Minister von Averswald my written 
declaration:——‘ That, in the present condition of conflict 
between Berlin and Frankfort, I shonld never think of sepa- 


Zr. 56] PRUSSIA AGAINST FRANKFORT. 119 


rating my fate from that of Prussia; whether or not an 
offer to that effect should ever be made to me.’ 

IT saw the beloved King yesterday, and passed four im- 
portant hours with him, experiencing all his former undis- 
turbed confidence. 

All the rest by word of mouth. 

I shall not return by way of Frankfort. All Prussia is 
in a great state of irritation against Frankfort, as one man. 
The affair was not well managed from the beginning. 

I shall reward myself this evening with Gothe’s ‘ Iphi- 
genia,’ and Beethoven’s ‘ Adagio,’ in the theatre. 

God be with you, and all our precious ones! 


Bunsen to Stockmar. (At Frankfort.) 
[Translation.] Berlin: 4th August, 1848. 


G. will have communicated to you the motives which 
have dictated my resolution; on that subject there will 
hardly be any difference of opinion between us, for no spring 
of action can be suffered to enter into contention with 
honour and duty. 

I find a conflict existing, apparently not to be reconciled. 
I must consider Berlin, in several points, to be in the right. 
I perceive the impossibility for Prussia to act otherwise 
than is demanded by the truly spontaneous and natural 
popular feeling; and how can I then be doubtful what I 
have to do, having served Prussia thirty years, having 
interwoven my own interests most closely with its geod or 
ill fortunes, being bound to the King by every tie of grati- 
tude and affection? Still I feel the need of opening my 
heart entirely to you upon the thing itself. 

Now, my deeply-honoured friend, for our meeting again 
in London! Ido not intend to go through Frankfort; it 
could be of no use, and, besides, I believe that as soon as 
Biilow shall have come back with the reply, it would be 
well for me to be in London without loss of time; things 


120 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1848 


do not stand well with us there since the refusal of the 
ratification. 

Continue to me your affection and friendship, so infinitely 
precious to me! 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[{‘Translation. ] Berlin: Monday, 7th August, 1848. 


My stay was of pressing necessity, and I cannot be 
thankful enough for the impression that my presence here 
hasmade. That the King’s former affection towards me has 
flowed forth afresh notwithstanding all obstacles, and that 
his confidence in me has been, if possible, more unlimited 
than ever—must be mentioned first; but I believe I have 
also found favour with the Ministers, to all of whom I was 
a stranger, and to the greater part of them an object of sus- 
picion; and from the public in general no unfavourable 
voice has reached me. 

I believe I have not been useless here, as to several points 
of our public life; but the place for my remaining in is not 
Berlin, and still less Frankfort, as yet. The men of weight 
there have decided upon a course in which I could not go 
with them even were I not withheld by their opposition to 
Berlin... . 

My thoughts upon the condition of things here I shall 
write down at Totteridge, as soon as [ have the longed-for 
happiness of being with you again, all you beloved beings ! 

I only add further that everything went off quietly yester- 
day, when the Clubs and the Trades had arranged a so- 
called German festival procession to the Kreuzberg, with 
German banners and songs of German unity—while 4,000. 
peasants from Teltow, in the country, with Prussian banners 
and a cross borne before them, advanced towards the same 
point from the other side—but, happily, the latter were by 
two hours the earliest, had made their speeches, and sung 
their songs, and drawn off, before the first mentioned arrived, 
to go through similar evolutions, All went off quietly. 


ZEt, 57] LETTER TO ARCHDEACON HARE. 121 


The street riots here have decidedly no significance 
further than the evil effect of increasing by practice the 
lawlessness of the rabble of all sorts, and the boys more 
particularly. The spirit of agitation rules the town... . 

12th August.—The Frankfort people are in the wrong. I 
set my conscience and common sense against them all, being 
at the same time their best friend, and convinced that they 
will repent not having followed my way. Too late, perhaps ! 
but yet I hope the best... . 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 
4, Carlton Terrace: 9th November, 1848. 


My pear Friznp,—I have been long silent, but you never 
will have doubted that my soul is continually with you, as I 
know, to my inexpressible comfort, that yours is with me. 
But I suppose, that there was little correspondence in the 
time of the Deluge, at least between those who were aware 
it was a Deluge. I feel that I have entered into a new period 
of life. Ihave given up all private concerns, all studies and 
researches of my own, and live entirely for the present poli- 
tical emergencies of my country, to stand or to fall by and 
with it, Ele oiwvoc apiorog (Il. xii. 248). Hector’s creed 
is mine. In this spirit 1 have written a small volume of 
about fifteen sheets print,—‘ Deutschland’s Vergangenheit 
und Zukunft. It consists of three parts, as an introduction, 
two chapters— 

Wohin geht Europa ? (whither tends Europe?) 
Wohin geht Deutschland ? (whither tends Germany ?) 


Then twelve chapters on the past, to prove that the Germans 
have ever been one nation, and that a federal one, and to 
explain why their constitution was not completed and per- 
fected before. The last part contains a political analysis of 
the principles according to which the Federal Constitution 
of the United States may be applied toGermany. Of course 
I agree with Gagern that the German Empire cannot now 


122 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1848 


include the Austrian provinces, but that the two Empires, 
Germany proper and Austro-Germany, may be connected 
by a compact of eternal peace and unity (Dundesverwandt). 


Buneen to his Wife. (At Totteridge.) 
London: 28th November, 1848. 


. All accounts from Berlin are good, as far as they go; 
the revulsion strong and general in favour ofthe King. The 
Silesian country has offered two millions-—cities hke Mag- 
deburg (even) have offered to pay their taxes at once, be- 
forehand, for 1849. I enclose an admirable letter from the 
leader of the moderate Liberals—(Harkort, a NV esupualan) 
addressed to the workpeople. .. . 


To the Same. 
| Translation. ] 
London: Saturday morning, early, 9th December, 1848. 

{Jod be thanked ! the Constitution which the King has 
given (octroyée) is not the old project, but a much-improved 
one; and has much of that which I desire. I thank you for 
your letter. To have your approbation and agreement in all 
that I do is my highest reward, and therefore my pleasure 
in your expressions has been indescribable. 

Now the news—the Emperor of Austria has abdicated in 
favour of his nephew. 

The King has dissolved the Assembly, dismissed Man- 
teuffel, retained Brandenburg as President, and in the other 
Ministerial posts has placed men of Liberal principles. The 
Constitution is octroyée, to be in fature discussed. Prussia 
saved, and Germany too! 


Contemporary Notice, from the Diary of a Daughter. 
Totteridge Park: Monday, 11th December, 1848. 


My dearest father and Baron Stockmar arrived in the 
afternoon, when we had almost given them up, and joined 


Br. 57] SUMMONED TO BERLIN. 123 


us in walking on the terrace. They talked of the Prussian 
Constitution, of which my father promised later to give us 
a full account. I wish I could put down im detail all they 
said about it; on the whole they were well satisfied, but 
Stockmar insisted that there was much in the old project 
which ought not to have slipped into the Constitution. One 
article led to a discussion upon the abolition of the punish- 
ment of death ; Stockmar said he was for limiting the appli- 
cation of it as much as possible, but quite against its total 
abolition even in political crimes, which, as he said, are often 
more serious in their consequences than any private offence. 
His reasons for this were, first, that he thought private re- 
venge, for the prevention of which the severity of law was 
enacted, could not be prevented without it; and, secondly, 
that on the masses fear of death would exert a preventive 
influence impossible in the case of any other punishment. A 
French statesman having been named, whom my father was 
willing to consider an ‘honest man,’ even though disapprov- 
ing his conduct, Stockmar said, ‘Much understanding is 
required to be an honest man in public affairs,—understand- 
ing is necessary for a man to know whether he actually is 
honest or not; a man may wind round and round in a laby- 
rinth of action for twenty-five years, supposing himself to 
be honest; and not be so at last.’ 


At the commencement of 1849 Bunsen was again 
summoned to Berlin, to be consulted on the relations 
betwéen Prussia and the Germanic Body, in which he 
took a lively and unceasing interest. There can be no 
doubt that the ‘great work’ to which he refers was to 
induce the King to accept the Imperial Crown of the 
new German Empire. Bunsen was ardently favour- 
able to this measure, which the King finally refused 
to adopt. 


124, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 1984” 


| Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation.] Hétel des Princes, Berlin: 12th January, 1849. 


I am doing well, having remained in bed till noon, fasting 
upon barley-water. Last night I returned from the Palace 
at nine o’clock, voiceless, after four hours’ incessant discus- 
sion. The King’s reception of me was most kind and hearty. 
I enclose his letter, which met me at Potsdam. As soon as 
we were closeted, I said to the King, I was sure he could 
not believe I had meant what he at first supposed, by the 
words of my letter. ‘A kiss,’ said the King; ‘it is all 
right ’—and a hearty kiss was my ‘ yes.’ 

_I reserve all further particulars till my return. I feel 
almost certain that I shall depart the 19th or 20th for 
Frankfort, and be with you the first week of February. 
There is nothing now for me todo here. The 22nd Feb- 
bruary may change the face of affairs about Easter. In 
the meantime—bene vixit, qui bene latuit. 

I met Count Brandenburg, the Prime Minister, at the 
King’s—nothing could be moze kind than his reception of 
me: and all he said was in my way of thinking. I must 
make quarantine to-day and to-morrow, to recover the shock 
of this most severe journey. This laying-up is quite a God- 
send, otherwise I should be talking myself to death. Abeken 
keeps me au courant of what passes. Lepsius, Gelzer, Holl- 
weg, Pertz, Gerhard, are talking to me—which is a great 
treat. I do not believe I shall write to you again from 
Berlin,—but Charles will, who is very helpful. 


To the Same. 
[Translation.] 

Frankfort: Hotel de Russie: Saturday, 26th January, 1849. 

.... At length I feel my heart to be free to write to you. 
When I am in grief, I am like a horse, enduring in silence: 
and that has been my condition until a week ago, when, 
after two weeks of distress and anxiety, such as I never ex- 
perienced before, the King suddenly conceded all that I had 


JET. 57] LETTER TO HIS WIFE. 125 


been up to that moment craving and supplicating for in vain. 
In three minutes all was concluded, which it had seemed as 
if months, and even revolutions, might be required to effect. 
(The details you shall hear when we shall be again united— 
I hope, at the latest, in a fortnight.) As soon as this victory 
was accomplished, I resolved for once to take my fate into 
my own hands: and proposed immediately to go to Frank- 
fort, whither at the same time the official Declaration was 
despatched. The ostensible reason of my going was ‘ to con- 
fer in the matter of the Schleswig-Holstein instructions,’— 
and then receive at Berlin the definitive instruction. But I 
was also empowered to speak openly to Gagern what I 
should deem necessary in order to bring the great work to an 
end, with God’s gracious help, and not conceal, what the 
King had said to his Ministers and friends, ‘that in the main 
point he held one and the same opinion with me.’ 

Wherefore I arrived, after a journey of adventures, on 
Thursday evening, the 24th, at this place, yet too late to go 
to Kamphausen, who had invited a numerous party to meet 
me: yesterday I talked the whole over with him: he looks 
upon me as his political friend. 

Then I went to Gagern,—and we were soon united in 
Opinion as to the main point: to-day all has been arranged 
in detail. I have said nothing yet of Lord Cowley, who 
is the first of English diplomatists. He is as German as 
myself, and is most helpful to Gagern with the best advice. 
He is penetrated with the conviction, that if we do not 
succeed in carrying through the work within three weeks, 
a terrible revolution may ensue, and is even now at the door. 
He received me at a splendid banquet, after which Banks 
and I remained with him till late at night. 

Now, do you say with me, ‘ Lord, | am not worthy of the 
mercies Thou hast shown unto me!’ Not that we are yet at 
the goal! on the contrary, the conflict begins now in earnest, 
and we may all perish in it—but that is in the hands of God. 
I care no more for the rest of life, if only that great object is 


126 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


attained: such a fatherland is worth any sacrifice. It goes 
hard with me to break off from here: and yet I suppose my 
return is necessary for the work of peace. Could I so ar- 
range things as that a written communication were sufficient 
without first coming myself,—I should remain in Germany 
until the decision. The 15th February is known to be fixed 
for the breaking out of a Republican Revolution in Germany 
with fire and bloodshed. Yet not a hair will fall from our 
heads without the will of God,—and I fear nothing. 

I think, at the latest, I shall go to Berlin on Thursday 
next, the 3lst.* 


Two extracts from a Memoir by Bunsen, on the 
subject of his journey to Berlin and Frankfort in the 
months of January and February, 1849, and of subse- 
quent events—finished in June of the same year— 
may be inserted in this place, as an indication of the 
severe suffering to which his feelings, both as a Ger- 
man and as a devoted friend of his King, were exposed 
during those days, and, in fact, almost to the end of 
his days on earth. 


First Extract. 
[Translation.] 

I departed from Frankfort, February 10th, in joyful 
thankfulness for the success of my negotiations, for all the 
kindness I had found, and for the consolation and confirma- 
tion of belief, which I had obtained as a provision against 
the awful future, in the heart of the German nation. Never 
had I been possessed with a clearer intuition of the fact that 
Germany is one country, and that Germans have the desti- 
nation, the means, the strength, and the courage, to become 
the first nation of Europe. 

* The answer to this letter, dated 1st February, contained an exhor- 


tation to Bunsen, rather ‘ to remain a few weeks longer, to carry through 
by influence what only influence could accomplish,’ 


ZET. 57] MEMOIR OF EVENTS AT BERLIN. 127 


On Sunday morning, 11th February, at half-past seven, I 
was again at Berlin. I wrote directly a report tothe King, 
that I might not later have to write one in greater detail. 
With respect to the Schleswig affair, I said that the King’s 
peaceable intentions and proposals had met with a willing 
and cheerful acceptance. As to Germany, I stated five pro- 
positions as decided : the hereditary principle; the revision 
of the Constitution, yet without adjournment ; the necessity 
that Prussia should declare herself, in the spirit of the Cir- 
cular note of 23rd January, ready to take the lead (without 
Austria) in the Federal movement, at the same time leaving 
it to every other member to enter into it or not; lastly, 
urging that the lever of Frankfort should not be broken. 
When I now read through the four pages of this letter, and 
contemplate the course of the last two months, my heavy 
heart is yet more weighed down. 

The King answered me instantaneously and in haste, the 
same day, that of all that he would do nothing; the course 
entered upon was a wrong done to Austria; he would have 
nothing to do with such an abominable line of politics, but 
would leave that to the Ministry (at Frankfort) : whenever 
the personal question should be addressed to hum, then would 
he reply as one of the Hohenzollerns, and thus live and die 
as an honest man. 

Very soon after I received from the Ministers the commen- 
tary to this utterance. As soon as I had left Berlin for 
Frankfort the King had veered round at once ; a secret. cor- 
respondence was carried on by himself with Olmiitz; the 
necessity of the existence of the Chambers, and of an under- 
standing with them, was no longer taken into account; the 
King would not give up politics ; on the contrary, he would 
begin now really to direct them, and that alone. I was glad 
to have already announced to the King my departure for 
Wednesday. I was received with kindness. The King read 
to me his letter to Prince Albert, of which I was to be the 
bearer, in which he said, ‘He had never repented in such a 


128 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1849 


degree of any step as of that which I had advised him to 
tae, desiring that he, the Prince, should hear from myself 
what I had to say on the subject.’ 

The King communicated to me further the artful letter of 
the King of Wiirtemberg, who was now entirely won over 
by Austria. I was to observe from that how all the world 
was against Prussia. 

On the same evening I wrote to Kamphausen, to whom, 
with Vincke and Gagern, I had given the right hand of fel- 
lowship in faithful adherence to the German cause, entreat- 
ing that Berlin be considered the centre of gravity in Ger- 
man affairs, and that he and the other Prussian deputies 
would hasten hither to the opening of the Chambers. I 
wrote also to Vincke. I took leave of the King after he rose 
from the dinner table; towards the end he became as affec- 
tionate as he used to be formerly, and touched no more on 
painful points. He dwelt upon the comfort he had in des- 
perate moments experienced in faith and prayer, assuring 
me that even in the night between the 19th and 20th of 
March the last year he had heen wholly without fear or 
anxiety for his life. 

[The ‘great misunderstanding’ of the night of the 19th 
March, 1848, remains a secret. An aide-de-camp (whose 
mame no one knows) brought an order, in the King’s name, 
‘that the troops should withdraw,’ instead of which the 
King had commanded ‘that the troops should withdraw 
towards the palace.’ This enigma nobody could or would 
solve to me; but General N. assured me that at twelve 
o’clock on that night, the King was resolved to retreat out 
of the town with the troops, and to invest it ;—then began 
a state of wavering, until all was too late! | 

I left the King with tears, silently and with a heavy heart, 
Wednesday, 14th February. That evening, J] was at Lord 
Westmoreland’s dinner-party ; having had in the morning an 
animated scene with Meyendorf, to whom I communicated 
the main points of the Memorandum. He endeavoured tq 


Zit. 57] MEMOIR OF EVENTS AT BERLIN. 129 


intimidate me. ‘You know that you have never before 
spoken of Norway as an example of the form of federation— 
you have let yourself be talked over to that in Frankfort ; 
but that is a state of war! I am working against you; my 
position is inimical, &c.’ I rejoined, with entire composure, 
‘IT request you to refrain from that high tone, which makes 
no impression upon me. I could also speak peremptorily, 
but 1t were better we should confer tranquilly. You know 
well, that I used those same words to you, “the relation of 
Norway to Sweden must form the standard,” before my de- 
parture from this place to Frankfort; but, moreover, you 
must know better than I do, that Count Nesselrode, in a 
despatch to Budberg, expressed approbation of the “form 
of Norway.’ He thereupon softened (whether ashamed or 
not) into a tone of conciliation, and closed with honeyed 
words. 

Thus passed the last day at Berlin; but the evening 
brought me yet an hour of refreshment with the Prince and 
Princess of Prussia. The arrogance of Austria had irritated 
the Prince. 

I saw Pertz; and then hastened, late as it was, to the 
beloved Lepsius, with whom I met some young and Ger- 
man-minded friends, from two of whom (one from Nirn- 
berg, one from Bamberg) I obtained many useful notes 
towards my ‘Hssay on the Constitution. We drank 
together to the well-bemg of Germany, and parted at ten 
o'clock, when Abeken accompanied me to the railway. 

At eleven o’clock in the morning of Saturday, 17th Feb- 
ruary, I reached Carlton Terrace, after a delightful journey 
through the moonlight and the early morning-sunshine of 
spring, from Dover. 

I announced myself to Lord Palmerston, one day sooner 
than I had promised to return; and then drove with my 
beloved ones to our favourite Totteridge. 

As I had quitted Frankfort with the longing desire to be 
enabled, there in the centre of German life, to live and act, 

VOL. I. K 


130 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


so did I quit Berlin with a physical repugnance against the 
thought either of living or dying there. <A general con- 
sciousness of dissatisfaction had come over me already in 
1845, which in 1848 strengthened into disgust, and now 
were moral indignation, dejection, and grief fixed perma- 
nently in my heart. More than ever did I feel myself a 
foreigner in the chief city of my fatherland, repelled even 
in the very dwelling-house of my King. The antechamber 
countenances recalled to my mind the condition of 1806; 
there was no free spirit, no fresh and unshackled heart, no 
human sympathies among all those human forms there 
seated or gliding about. (An enumeration follows.) Lastly, 
X., . .. . now the organ of Meyendorf for communication 
with the King, by means of whom the King was plied every 
morning with all the bits of intelligence that could be 
found likely to irritate and displease him,—at one time, 
the rudeness of the Frankfort orators, at another, the so- 
called insurrectional plans and utterances of Gagern; 
again, the complaints of princes, of noblemen, and of the 
well-disposed, who felt themselves oppressed (no matter 
where they were), even mixing suggestions relative to the 
highest politics. Through this channel the Emperor of 
Russia transmitted menaces to the King, by word of mouth 
and in writing ; and thus were formed within the King’s 
inner Closet notions, plans, convictions, against which the 
Ministers vainly contended, and secret correspondences, 
which overruled politics and ruined diplomacy. Already 
in 1848 I had discovered traces of this system of by-play, 
and suffered from it; the malicious letter of Lady to 
Frau von Meyendorf came in this manner to the knowledge 
of the King; but now I] had penetrated further behind the 
scene, and could see and feel the destructive effects of the 
political agitation ceaselessly carried on. Of the Court in 
general the only positive characteristic among many nega- 
tions, was that of enmity to the popular cause. Hum- 
boldt’s presence was a consolation, as well as here and 





ZET. 57] MEMOIR OF EVENTS AT BERLIN. 131 


there a man of worth in office, known to me from former 
times. The hatred of the official body, and of the party of 
nobles, as such, which had persecuted me now during full 
twenty years, came upon me in yet coarser distinctness 
than ever, as well as their incapacity and the narrowness of 
their views, which the exasperation of 1848 had but more 
strongly brought to view. To Count Brandenburg I was 
drawn by his inartificial kindness, and his manly devoted- 
ness to the King; but his entire previous course of action 
was @ Censure upon mine, as mine was upon his. The 
general impression made by countenances all around was 
that of choking from suppressed rage. A real statesman 
was nowhere to be seen; and what could such an one have 
attempted at Charlottenburg, in the present state of things? 
The King was resolved to direct all politics by himself 
alone; he would have a Dictatorship by the side of the 
Constitution, and yet be considered a liberal constitutional 
Sovereign ; whereas he regarded the constitutional system 
to be one of deceit and falsehood. The faithfulness, the 
discipline, and the bravery of the army, being the object of 
his just pride, he reckoned upon being able to unloose the 
political knot at last by means of the military ; for his noble 
heart was corroded by habitual exasperation from the event 
of the 19th and 21st March, 1848, which was more and 
more transferred to Frankfort. Often did more liberal 
thoughts and feelings emerge from the flood; but the 
surrounding influences and the secret communications 
from Olmiitz and Munich allowed not of their permanence. 

However much I struggled against the thought, I could 
not be blind to the fact, that the noble King was preparing for 
himself and the country a dark and difficult future, which 
seemed inevitable ; humanly speaking, no help to be within 
reach, at least as long as the King remained in Charlotten- 
burg and Berlin. He might have been compliant with a 
German Ministry of high intelligence, high station, and 
European reputation; but never with one merely com- 

k 2 


132 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


posed of Prussian, Brandenburgian, Pomeranian, and Saxon 
materials. The idea that subjects, and those such as he 
felt to be inferior to himself both in abilities and experience, 
should direct his politics, should in any degree hinder his 
acting #s he pleased, was intolerable to him. What in 
earlier days, and even still in 1848, had appeared accidental 
and transitory with him, now assumed a fixed and fateful 
character ; and what was to my feeling the most painful, was 
that I could not perceive the same high and truly royal 
consciousness of right as existed formerly; also that his 
energy in action bore no proportion to his resolute bear- 
ing and declaration of will; that there were moments in 
which he might be said to sink exhausted, rather than 
to yield to argument! after which giving way his inward 
wrath was kindled. I felt myself ever bound to him by 
affection and gratitude, but the bond of souls was torn 
asunder, the hope that I had founded upon him had been a 
delusion; a nearer relation to him in the Ministry of the 
State had become impossible, or must have closed in an 
absolute breach. 

All around I was aware of disesteem, mistrust, hatred, 
indignation, directed against the King, by which my heart 
was irritated as much as wounded ; he occasionally spoke 
of abdication, and the idea that the act was, or might 
become necessary, was in the heart of thousands. And 
this in the case of a sovereign so rarely gifted, so noble 
minded, towering so far above his fellows; born to be 
the beloved of his people, the jewel and ornament of the 
age ! 

Thus did I leave Berlin, resolved never willingly to 
return thither; which feeling has been more and more 
confirmed. The four months which have since elapsed 
have only formed one course of mental suffering, anxiety, 
grief, pain, and vexation, with few glimpses of light; and 
I must call them the most distressful and afflicting of my 
life. 


ZET. 57) MEMOIR OF EVENTS AT BERLIN. 133 


Second Extract. 
[Translation. ] 

That which I regretted so deeply in Frankfort, that the 
measure I had earnestly recommended before my journey 
thither had not been put in force at the right time—namely, 
the exclusion of the Austrian members from the debates 
upon a Constitution which, since the declaration of their 
government at Kremsier, they could in no wise accept— 
soon revealed itself as the essential occasion of ruin to the 
work which had so far proceeded. The Prussian Govern- 
ments would not advance resolutely and firmly in the 
direction of the 23rd January ; the directions despatched to 
Kamphausen were good, but received no subsequent sup- 
port; the twenty-eight Governments acceded, in mere 
mistrust of Prussia, or were induced later, by the delay of 
Prussia in declaring herself, to act upon private and indi- 
vidual views. They decided for the second reading, in spite 
of all opposing considerations: and why ? because all confi- 
dence in Prussia had vanished, and fear was in every heart. 
The representations made were not attended to; and Gagern 
was under the necessity of yielding much to the Left, in 
order to obtain the passing of any proposition. The posi- 
tion of Kamphausen became a difficult one, which difficulty 
was further aggravated by the appearance of the arrogant 
and inimical declaration of Austria. Some members deter- 
mined to carry the question by storm; but the hereditary 
umperial dignity (Erbkaiserthum) for Prussia fell through. 
At length the question of chief ruler (Oberhaupt) was in all 
form debated, and but a small majority declared for it, as 
the Austrian members (all but three or four) voted m the 
opposition. 

Up to this time I had not resumed my correspondence 
with the King; I could not muster spirit to doso. The 
Prussian Chambers began well, but afterwards they did 
not keep up to their first standard. The entrance of Count 


134 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. _ [1849 


Arnim into the Ministry was an indication how entirely 
the politics of the King guided all. Bilow became the 
victim of his own consistency ; his resignation was, perhaps, 
unavoidable, but the choice of Count Arnim, the man of 
Metternich, the man of Cracow, would have seemed im- 
possible, save to those who knew that the King was his 
own Minister of Foreign Affairs, and only desired a passive 
instrument, which should be agreeable to Austria. 

On the 14th the King wrote to me, that Gagern was deter- 
mined upon war with Denmark, but he (the King) would 
not make that war; that Welcker intended to have him 
(the King) proclaimed Emperor, but that he would not ac- 
cept the crown of shame. According to these declarations 
I was desired to speak and act. I received this letter on the 
30th, and the day after had intelligence of the vote for an 
Emperor (290 assenting, and 248 members withholding 
their votes), and could not further continue silent, but 
urged his acceptance, quoting the saying, that ‘acceptance 
is the end of the beginning, but rejection the beginning of the 
end.’ (This was dated the morning of the 31st March.) The 
evening of that day I received a letter of the 27th, in which 
the King suggested ‘ that I should as soon as possible break 
off the connection with Frankfort, as I could not act accord- 
ing to opposite instructions.’ On the 26th I had received 
from Berlin the most incredible directions in the Danish 
matter, by which (but an error of the transcriber was after- 
wards recognised) I should have been called upon to act as 
much against my instructions as my convictions, and yet 
upon my own responsibility. The King’s counsel, therefore, 
came to hand at the right moment, and I wrote back the 
same evening, that I should the next day lay down my office 
as German Plenipotentiary; at the same time announcing 
to the King that he must dismiss me, if the Danish line of 
politics of Count Arnim was to be adhered to; for I could 
not sign the protocol which had been laid before me. I 


fET. 57] MEMOIR OF EVENTS AT BERLIN. 135 , 


was thoroughly disgusted with my position and all the trans- 
actions. 

This communication of mine arrived on the evening of the 
day on which the King had received the Frankfort deputies, 

Thus came round the precious season of Passion Week. 
On Good Friday the King wrote to me that ‘I must, for 
God’s sake, justify myself; if I had indeed said what Lord 
Palmerston attributed to me, that I could receive no com- 
mands from Berlin in the Danish negotiation, I must per- 
ceive what he would be obliged to do.’ This was a severe 
trial! I replied to the letter (which revealed the utter con- 
fusion of the King’s perceptions as to the nature of the 
negotiation, as one carried on by the Central Power), on the 
12th April, with a documentary statement of the history of 
the plenipotentiary office in question. 

Two days later I received the King’s Easter letter, in 
which was no mention whatever of the accusation ; but the 
King entered kindly, and with tolerable composure, into the 
reasons for which he neither could, nor ought to, act in the 
matter of the Imperial Crown according to my counsel. 

At the same time the Circular of the Ministry upon the 
subject of the King’s decision and reply came to hand; of 
which I sent a translation to Lord Palmerston, Lord John 
Russell, and Sir Robert Peel, and transmitted to the King 
the highly intelligent reply of the latter, in my answer of 
the 17th of April. He expressed himself as ‘fully aware 
that great objections lay against acceptance; but that re- 
fusal might bring yet greater dangers, by the delay to be 
apprehended in accomplishing a final arrangement. The 
King, however, had given a strong proof of an unambitious 
disposition,’ I entered no further into the subject of the 
King’s decision, as that could have led to nothing; but 
argued that nothing further remained, but, in the spirit of 
the Constitution, to call a Revision-Parliament, together 
with those Governments which were willing to unite. In 


186 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


conclusion, I addressed myself to the King’s conscience as to 
his expressions regarding the cause of Schleswig-Holstein, 
and implored him not to incur blame therein. 

Meanwhile the Congress of Princes was opened, under the 
presidency of Radowitz. I had always insisted that Rado- 
witz would remain faithful to his former professions, and to 
the sentiments he had expressed on the occasion of the voting 
for the choice of an Emperor; no one else, however, would 
believe it ; but as for a successful result with the King, I 
had my doubts as well. Those were sad weeks! Anarchy, 
civil war, insurrection, on all sides! But excess of distress 
brought at last a solution, as the Prussian army showed it- 
self to be unbroken, while other thrones were shaken or 
hurled down. The King’s appeal of the 15th May was a ray 
of light, which I joyfully hailed as such; but the time was 
gone for words to be effective ! 

The intelligence of the settlement with Hanover and Sax- 
ony arrived on the morning of Whit Sunday (27th May), 
not altogether unexpected by me; for all things indicated 
that result. The first sure intelligence I received was on the 
day of the Queen’s Drawing Room, on the 31st, from the 
Hanoverian Minister ; and I mentioned it to the Queen her- 
self, who, however, the next day (Ist June, at the concert 
at Court), expressed herself as still incredulous, and full of 
distressed anticipations for Germany. At length, on the 
2nd June, the document of the Constitution arrived. Stock- 
mar and I recognised in it a sincere acknowledgment of 
the tendency of the German endeavours, and a pledge of a 
final and happy solution; but the intrigues of Austria, 
Bavaria, and of the Archduke John at Frankfort (to gain 
time for other purposes), continued in activity. I expressed 
to the King my joyful congratulation, but also my appre- 
hensions and suggestions as to the law of elections, and the 
transition from dictatorship to constitutional rule: having 
previously communicated to him a letter, written in his name 
to Peel, in justification of the King’s line of proceeding. I 


Bx. 57] CHANGE OF RESIDENCE. 137 


also wrote to him again, on the 5th June, after the confer- 
ences of Gotha, and the betrayal on the part of the Kings 
of Hanover and Saxony. 

An event which in the beginning of March had not 
been anticipated, the removal of the Prussian Lega- 
tion from No. 4 to No.9, Carlton Terrace, took place 
in the third week of the month, when within two 
days all our possessions were cleared out of one house 
into the other, passing over the terrace so as to be as 
little as possible within public observation: and the 
family retreated to Totteridge before the night follow- 
ing the last of those days. Seven remarkable years 
had been past in the beautiful abode of Lord and 
Lady Stuart de Rothesay: but however much it had 
been deservedly valued, the gain in acquiring the 
house of Mr. Alexander was incontestable, both as to 
space, and amount of light, and also in the better 
arrangement ofrooms. A severe indisposition resulted 
to Bunsen from exposure to the March winds when 
superintending upon the terrace part of the work of 
removal—for the youthful period was now past in 
which he could show himself proof against shocks to 
body and mind ; and three days’ rest in bed sufficed 
not to remove the cough, with which he felt obliged 
to go to a dinner-party at Lord Palmerston’s, on 
Wednesday, the 28th, and to the Drawing Room on 
the 29th (marked in a contemporary letter as the first 
ramy Court-day observed during seven years), to avoid 
exciting a supposition of keeping out of sight from 
diplomatic reasons. The present period answered to 
that of the year before which followed the visit of his 
Royal Highness the Prince of Prussia, when Bunsen 


138 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


was also seriously indisposed, in a manner now be- 
coming distressingly frequent. But activity in official 
correspondence, far from having relaxed, seemed 
rather to increase in feverish excitement in pro- 
portion as the grounds of hope of any happy result 
diminished more and more. 


JET. 57 | FROUDE'S ‘NEMESIS OF FAITH.’ 139 


CHAPTER XIV. 


CORRESPONDENCE. 


‘ NEMESIS OF FAITH ’—FROUDE—CHRISTOLOGY—OCCASIONAL MEMORANDA 
——-RELATIONS WITH AUSTRIA— OSBORNE HOUSE—PRINCE ALBERT-—-GREAT 
EXHIBITION OF 1851—BUNSEN’S SPEECH—THE GORHAM JUDGMENT— 
DEATH OF SIR R. PEEL-——-BROADLANDS—DANISH AFFAIRS——EGYPTIAN 
STUDIES. 


Bunsen to Maa Miiller. 
[ Translation. ] Carlton Terrace: 22nd April, 1849. 


YESTERDAY evening, and night, and this morning early, I 
have been reading Froude’s ‘ Nemesis of Faith,’ and am so 
moved by it that I must write you a few lines. I cannot 
describe the power of attraction exercised upon me by this 
deeply-searching, noble spirit: I feel the tragic nature of 
his position, and long have I foreseen that such tragical com- 
binations await the souls of men in this island-world. 
Arnold and Carlyle, each in his own way, had seen this long 
before me. In the general world, no one can understand 
such a state of mind, except so far as to be enabled to mis- 
construe it. 

In the shortcoming of the English mind in judging of 
this book, its great alienation from the philosophy of Art is 
revealed. This book is not comprehended as a work of Art, 
claiming as such due proportions and relative significance 
of parts; otherwise many individuals would at least have 
been moved to amore sparing judgment upon it, and in the 
first place they would take in the import of the title. 

This book shows the fatal result of the renunciation of 
the Church-system of belief. The subject of the tale simply 


140 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


experiences moral annihilation; but the object of his affec- 
tion, whose mind he had been the means of unsettling in her 
faith, burst through the boundaries which humanity has 
placed and the moral order of the world imposes: they 
perish both,—each at odds with self, with God, and with 
human society: only for him there yet remains room for 
further development. Then the curtain falls—that is night, 
according to artistic rule of composition ; true and necessary 
according to the views of those who hold the faith of the 
Church of England; and, from a theological point of view, 
no other solution could be expected from the book than that 
which it has given. 

But here the author has disclosed the inward disease, the 
fearful hollowness, the spiritual death, of the nation’s philo- 
sophical and theological forms, with resistless eloquence ; 
and, like the Jews of old, they will exclaim, ‘That man is a 
criminal! stone him !’ 

I wish you could let him know how deeply I feel for him, 
without ever having seen him; and how I desire to admon- 
ish him to accept and endure“this fatality, as, in the nature 
of things, he must surely have anticipated it ; and as he has 
pointed out and defended the freedom of the spirit, so must 
he now (and I believe he will) show in himself, and make 
manifest to the world, the courage, active in deed, cheerful 
in power, of that free spirit. 


Bunsen to Lnicke. 


[ Translation. ] London: Christmas, 1847, 
(Sent off 25th April, 1849.) 


With you I long to confer upon Christology. Our points 
of view cannot, I apprehend, be very far apart. And I 
am convinced also that the rigorously rational line of argu- 
ment (from Lessing and Kant to Schleiermacher, in what 
may be considered the essence of his historical belief) 
claims its place, not in our Universities only, but also in 
the life of our congregations. If indeed no honest formula 


Zit. 57] CHRISTOLOGY. 141 


of real concord should be possible between that view and 
the other, as historically fixed in our Churches, then the 
world will have but the alternative of becoming either 
unchristian or Roman Catholic. But the one is as un- 
worthy an anticipation as the other. My own personal 
endeavours have ever tended, and now more than ever, 
towards three points :— 

1. To bridge over that divergence for the life of the 
congregation, not by means of formularies constructed by 
speculative ratiocination by so-called dogmas, but by the 
living act of worship; in which (subjectively) all religion 
takes its rise. Upon this point I can render honest account, 
historically and speculatively; yet I hold back until God 
snall show me that it 1s time, and my conscience shall tell 
me that I have made all parts clear to myself. But I learn 
daily so much at least as to perceive how little I know. 

2. To bring into full acknowledgment the Christian 
element, first, theoretically, then, in the State, by pro- 
moting the development of political freedom. 

3. And lastly, in the Church (i.e. congregation, com- 
munity of believers), by perfecting the diaconate,—Chris- 
tian socialism, or the system of mutual ministration. _ 

To the faithful and conscious followmg up, however 
feebly, of these three pomts, | find, after forty ‘years of 
learning and of wandering,’ now on the verge of my six- 
tieth year, the unity of my Ufe: and I am strengthened by 
clinging to it in the midst of conflicting currents, the dis- 
turbances and interruptions of my outward calling, and 
the commotions of the inner man, as Anteeus by the em- 
brace of his mother earth. This has been my ruling con- 
sciousness since 1841, and to this, the closer acquaintance 
with the Church of England, and with the decidedly 
erroneous direction which she has taken since 1843, has 
materially contributed, certainly not less than my critical 
examination of the original sources of Christianity. The 
hierarchical tendency now prevailing is untenable. 


142 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


From these words you will already gather my dissent 
from the policy of the Eichhorn Ministry; that is, from 
the present mode of carrying out an originally just idea of 
our piously-minded King, who however, since 1843, has 
veered as much to the right hand as I myself to the left. 
He is influenced by consideration of the destructive energy 
which he attributes to unbelief in positive Christianity, as 
taught in the churches, to enact limiting ordinances in 
the domain of conscience. I have done my utmost by the 
strongest statement of objections to clear the law of 30th 
March from the stains which render it a mere ‘ Hdict of 
Toleration ;’ and glad should I have been, could I have 
converted it imto a ‘law establishing religious and con- 
fessional freedom.’ But I could not attain my object; and 
now the mode of execution 1s wrong too. 

The wretched spectacle of a wholly lifeless Church and 
theological system, as well as a clear consciousness of the 
necessary and salutary consequences of critical enquiry, 
has brought me to oppose more strenuously than ever all 
government of the Church by the State, and to advance 
by all means in my power a purified faith. In my opinion, 
the King has fallen into two essential errors, in spite of 
my faithful and persevering warnings: first, His Majesty 
did not accept the saving formulary of Ordination, pro- 
posed by the General Synod of 1846; far less did he 
introduce into all provinces the Synodal system. Then, he 
has renewed, on the contrary, the old system (long since 
untenable) of consistorial administration, and endeavoured 
to govern witb it. I cannot discern how the King should 
get clear of the consequences of these errors as long as he 
lives. To turn again into the right way 1s, humanly speak- 
ing, under given circumstances, impossible. I scarcely need 
assure you that, for my own part, I have long arrived at the 
conviction that my calling cannot be in this direction. 

My ‘Church of the Future’ and ‘Ignatius’ have both 
been written under an irresistible pressure from within; 


Zr. 57] CHRISTOLOGY. 143 


but also with self-congratulation on the opportunity given 
me of rendering any mistake on the part of the King with 
regard to my views impossible. The Ministry of Public 
Instruction is also not to be thought of for me, in the 
present direction of the King’s Government. The more, 
therefore, do I endeavour to fight for the cause on literary 
ground, ‘Marcion,’ and ‘ Hegesippus,’ and the ‘ Tables,’ 
are as good as finished, but ‘Egypt’ demands two years 
more, and, until that time is over, I shall think much, 
but work little, on the domain of Christian doctrine and 
history. 

And, here, Christology claims attention in the first place. 
I start from this axiom: that Christology, as taught in the 
Churches, cannot be brought in union with the right inter- 
pretation of Scripture, with the historical views, the specu- 
lative thought, and the moral consciousness, of the time 
we live in. Therefore, I am somewhat angered at the 
second edition of Dorner, and do not agree with Nitzsch in 
his dogmatic writings. 

The question [ desire to put to you is the following :— 
Does the doctrine of the Logos, as still understood by 
Origen, in connection with the theory of identity, as founded 
by Schelling, but without losing the conception of per- 
sonality, open a way of reconciliation with the ultimate 
results of that criticism of which Schleiermacher, in his 
character as Exegete, is an embodiment ? 

I placed this very question before Tholuck in August last 
year, and he admitted to me that he had arrived at the 
same point; here, alone, he believed, was the solution to 
be sought for. We must reduce the difference to that 
between the infinite and the finite, i.e. dnfinitum in finito, 
the Eternal in time. 

At the first attempt to carry through that view, I am 
encountered by the Gorgon-head of Pelagianism, which 
Nitzsch held before me in all its terrors when we first con- 
ferred upon my theory of self-sacrifice. My axiom, ‘ Christ 


144, _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


is deified by His unique and unapproached sanctity,’ they 
denounce as heretical. And yet this, and no less, is asserted 
by Luther’s greatest teacher, the godly author of the 
‘Theologia Germanica.’ To me it is quite clear that the 
entire theological doctrine of Grace, as opposed to free 
agency, is a theological error and confusion; as incorrect 
as its opposite, but not a whit more true. 

Schleiermacher’s celebrated passages in arts. 13 and 93 
to 98 are not, to my mind, founded in fact. His reference 
to John iii. 10, for povoyevije as Christ’s own expression, is, 
to say the least, not quite clear. The above-named passages 
appeared essential to him for his argument. But that 
cannot make them true for me from the historical point of 
view. And speculatively also they are not, I believe, esta- 
blished. I can only agree with Schleiermacher’s art. g.g., 
in so far as the writer separates the necessary basis of 
belief from the two facts there mentioned. 

For this reason, I consider the Schleiermacher school in 
that respect not of a durable but a transitory nature. Just 
as little do I perceive help “Mm Hegel, less still in his Tii- 
bingen followers. Finally, Schelling’s last attempts will 
not bear examination, full as they are of splendid flashes of 
discovery, which, however, cannot be denied to Hegel either. 

Thus then it might appear as though enlightening en- 
quiry had not yet advanced since the days of Lessing and 
Kant (‘ Erziehung des Menschengeschlechts,’ and ‘ Religion 
innerhalb der Grainzen der reinen Vernunft’); but all that 
lives in me stubbornly resists such a conclusion, though 
T am conscious of standing on the basis of those two 
great men. 

The self-consciousness of Christ must not be assailed. But 
the question is (a question which Schleiermacher too sug- 
gests but discards), whether that self-consciousness could 
otherwise declare itself than within the general conditions 
of humanity, i.e. according to nationality and personality. 
And a second question is this,—whether, in order to believe 


Er. 57] CHRISTOLOGY. 14.5 


in Him as a Redeemer, we must nevertheless acknowledge 
that for that self-consciousness it was indispensable to be ut- 
tered as of a prototype, i.e. self-beginning (selbstanfanglich), 
for otherwise, Christ cannot be considered as First Cause ? 

The Father alone is free from the limitations of the tem- 
porary and transitory. The Son ‘was in the form of a 
servant,’ as long as His appearance on earth lasted. But 
is it less Divine, to reveal the essential nature of God in 
the purest, most universally intelligible form of human 
reality, than in a (supposed) supernatural mode of appear- 
ance? That which under the one supposition is attributed 
to the appearance, the other acknowledges as existing In 
the eternal cause of the appearance. Why may not both 
suppositions subsist together? We have not now to deal 
with scoffers like Voltaire, or with negations like those 
of the Encyclopedists and Materialists: but with a serious 
philosophy of the mind, and a critically-fowmded, positive 
system; and, in great part, with minds honest and serious, 
who accept and honour the Scripture. Need we be im- 
peded by the falsely so-called Apostles’ Creed, or the pre- 
eminence therein given to the mythical deposit of the deep 
impression produced by the Divine revelation in Christ, 
which has become predominant in the Churches? Must 
this so be, and can it thus remain? Why should not faith 
in the Divine revelation be true and vigorous when it 
assumes that man is the highest exponent of that Divine 
revelation given to us mortals ? 

It was my intention only to write to you a few words to 
shadow forth what I desire to discuss with you, by word of 
mouth, after our thirty years’ separation. [hope what I 
have said will not frighten you from complying with my 
invitation to come and see us. 

(Conclusion, dated London, 25th April, 1849.)—I cannot 
send off my letter written sixteen months ago, without a 
sign of life and an explanation. I let the letter lie, in the 
wish thoroughly to prove in my own mind the view therein 

VOL. II. L 


146 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


stated. The year 1848 drove the vessel of my life into 
storms and tempests, and I was shaken inwardly as well as 
outwardly by the violent swaying of the billows: but this 
present Easter I have granted myself a few days of contem- 
plation, and the result has been to find the system con- 
solidated into a part of myself, and living with my own 
life. 

Christology can never be rightly established, without a 
due development of the wholly neglected doctrine of the 
Spirit. For the Spirit of God is the power which reveals 
and realises God in the community of believers, constituting 
the mystery of spiritual unity which through successive 
generations is preserved in the multitude of individual 
souls. . 

To the whole period from Origen to Luther I feel an 
utter stranger. After Origen the Church-system, not the 
congregationdl but the hierarchical, was finally established, 
in opposition to that of Moses, as a new Law, and went on 
growing and developing itgelf up to the time of Luther. The 
new birth, however, is slow and difficult. Christ must and 
will become living flesh and blood nationally, as He did 
humanly—as He is becoming in the community of believers. 
Universal priesthood, instead of the former exclusive order ; 
works of love instead of professions of faith ; belief in God 
within us (i.e. Christ), with such awe and humility as can 
alone preserve Him to our souls ;—that is the Religion and 
Church of the future. All besides must fall, and is already 
spiritually annihilated. The Bible remains as the conse- 
crated centre of the world’s history, from the standing- 
point of the individual consciousness of God. 

In England everything, except the moral principle in 
the form of the fear of God, is deathlike. Thought itself is 
crudely rationalistic ; public worship in general lifeless ; 
the vivifying spirit startles like a spectre. The fall may be 
terrific, like that of ancient Rome ;—see my ‘ Egypt,’ vol. i., 
the chapter on the Learning of the Romans. 


Ber. 57] OCCASIONAL MEMORANDA. 147 


With us, the theological reaction will pass away like the 
political, and the anti-theological revolution like her daugh- 
ter the Red Republic. We are still the chosen people of 
God, the Christian Hellenes. I live my intellectual life m 
my native country. 


Occasional Memoranda, in Bunsen’s handwriting. 
[Translation. ] | July, 1849. 


. . . Meanwhile, English conditions and the politics of 
Great Britain did not give me much occupation. Ireland 
alone renfinded the English that they had a point of mor- 
tality. All that is false, corrupt, decaying, decrepid, over- 
done in their whole social system, they feel but as something 
artificial, confused, inconvenient, without such a sense of 
inherent evil as should rouse them to a thorough change. 
he He Be To speak with the English on forcign politics, is 
only worth while on the Roman question. All were agreed 
that France has cheated not only England, Austria, Naples, 
the Pope, and the Romans, but also herself. On the sub- 
ject of Germany the Tories were inimical, the Whigs apathe- 
tic, the Radicals alone reasonable. Only with Peel could 
I speak on the subject quite openly and with confidence. 

In the course of the day, I regularly saw Stockmar once, 
if not twice; we lived in German politics, as to which 
he, as usual, saw all things in the present in still darker 
colours than I did myself—both, however, agreeing in our 
faith in the great future of the fatherland. The greatness 
of events had banished from the mind of each of us all re- 
serve and misgiving, and each lay open and plain before the 
other. Our compulsory inactivity was the hardest to bear 
for both; at length he departed on the 3rd for Germany. 
In my mind the resolution was more than ever confirmed, 
to remain at my post as long as duty (i.e. opportunity of 
being of use) should retain me: but, as soon as an outlet 
should present itself, to consecrate the yet remaining days 
and years to enquiry and reflection upon the highest 

L 2 


148 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


things. Meanwhile, I determined to live now as much as 
possible in the country, at Totteridge. 


The projected Design of a Union with Austria. 


Even after the events of 1848 and my own experience in 
1849, it was to me as a thunder-clap in a clear sky to find 
on Friday, 20th July, in the Cologne paper, the intelligence 
that Prussia had made to Austria a proposal of Union, in 16 
Articles—according to which the two empires (Germany 
and Austria) should have one and the same diplomacy, 
therefore one line of politics, one political goverifment, and 
one Federal Court, consisting of four plenipotentiaries, under 
the presidency of Austria, to decide upon peace and war. 
Only one thing seemed incredible, that Austria should not 
at once have accepted the proposal. But this may be thus 
explained : first, by the boundless arrogance of Schwarzen- 
berg ; secon ly, by his consciousness of what Austria in- 
tends, as soon as Hungary shall be subdued—that is, to re- 
nounce all the mummer¥ of Constitutionalism—which has 
without doubt long been agreed upon in confidential con- 
ference with Russia; besides which, the design is in itself 
impracticable. Austria, with her own complications of 
States and of policy, can represent no German interests in 
foreign affairs ; 1t might as well be decidedly pronounced, 
that ‘ Austria should direct the politics and diplomacy of 
both empires, as she long has done.’ 

An hour later, at one o’clock, in a conference with Pal- 
merston, I represented to him the thing as credible, saying, 
‘That is the result of your policy—you would not have a 
German Federal State, and thus you drive us to throw our- 
selves into the arms of Austria, therefore into those of Rus- 
sia; an empire of seventy millions will, at least, suffice to 
command consideration for us, ind the rest will come of 
itself. To myself, of course, this turn of things is very 
painful, for if the project of a Union does not succeed, 
there will be endless confusion and internal conflicts ; while, 


Jar. 57] RELATIONS WITH AUSTRIA. 149 


if it succeeds, you and France will turn your enmity against 
us as the world’s chief anarchy; in either case, Germany 
loses her proper national course of politics—that ofa solely 
defensive Federal State, for which her nature, language, 
and history have long been preparing her. But the re- 
establishment of the old connection of States is impossible ; 
and, equally so, the subsistence of the several German 
States in single independence: wherefore nothing remains 
to us (as the world has conspired against the German 
Federal State) but fusion with Austria. See what will 
come of this! Officially 1 know nothing, but I believe in 
the thing as announced by the newspapers. We may be 
obliged to guarantee to Austria all her possessions, inclu- 
sive of Lombardy and Venice, and of course of Hungary.’ 
Palmerston endeavoured first to treat the matter as absurd 
and impossible, but I would not allow him thus to dismiss 
it, and at last he said, ‘ Well, the tendency towards a Ger- 
man Union was laudable, only it appeared merely good as a 
plaything ; could it be realised, it would be beneficial, and it 
would entirely suit the policy of this country. But the 
plan to erect such a monster of an empire is another thing. 
That would be a public nuisance. And what a policy for 
Germany to guarantee to Austria the possession of Italy ! 
It would produce a hostile position of England and France 
against it,—it would be a renewal of the Holy Alhance, 
only in a more practical and formidable form. That is im- 
possible.’ I requested that he would keep in mind what I 
had told him. 

That same Friday afternoon, 20th July, I took oppor- 
tunity, when Drouyn de |’Huys paid me his visit on 
assuming his post, to state to him academicamente the whole 
matter. He apprehended quickly all that I detailed, and 
gave me in return his concise and correct French formulary 
at once :— 

‘Le rétablissement de l’ancienne confédération est 1mpos- 
sible: les Etats ne sauraient se maintenir dans leur isole- 


150 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


ment. Le projet de Francfort, tel qu’il a été repris et 
remodelé a Berlin, donne & |’Allemagne Ja consistence né- 
cessaire, sans lui donner une force ou tendance aggressive : 
elle tient la balance vis-a-vis de l’Autriche et de la Russie. 
Si ce projet ne seréalise pas, 4 cause de Ja jalousie et de 
l'amour propre dynastique, il y aura ou la république ou 
lasservissement sous l’Autriche. La république remuerait 
l'Europe: la monarchie de 70 millions reproduirait les in- 
convénients de celle de Charles V et du Traité de la Sainte 
Alliance.’ 

He said further, that when he first became minister, 
they had confined themselves to a close observation of the 
German movement; but they were disturbed and brought 
to anxious consideration by the aggressive demeanour of 
Germany in every corner,—in Schleswig and in Limburg 
speeches had been heard treating of the recovery of Alsatia 
and of the Baltic provinces. A German Federal State, as 
I had described it, would cause no serious danger to France, 
and would therefore bring about no inimical feeling. He 
abominated the thought of the union of all Germany with 
Austria. 

For refreshment after this long day’s work, I visited, 
at six o’clock, my truly esteemed colleague Bancroft, who 
agreed in my view of things, and communicated to me 
the President’s instructions on the subject. The American 
diplomacy outruns the English by far. Already, on the 
22nd March, Squier, a8 secret negotiator, was on his way 
towards Leon, from whence to proceed to Nicaragua, to 
protest against the giving up of toll. 


Osborne House. 


The melancholy intelligence and gloomy prospects, under 
which I left London on the 205th July, were but tvo well 
confirmed by what I learnt at Osborne House, and by the 
letters which followed me thither. On the 26th, I had 
just time, after reading what the post had brought, to 


Z&t. 57) THE ROYAL FAMILY AT OSBORNE. 151 


despatch a letter written by Prince Albert to the Prince of 
Prussia, together with a letter of my own to his Royal 
Highness. Prince Albert had encouraged me to send his 
letter by the common post; he had no objection to its 
being known, wherever the packet might by the way be 
opened, how he condemned the acts and the persons by 
whom Germany was betrayed, as he had written his 
opinion to the Prince of Prussia. And why should it not 
be a matter of indifference to me, that whether on this or 
that side of the sea, my convictions should be read ?_ It is 
long since my ships have all been burnt, and that I have 
given counsel to friend and foe, without consideration of 
consequences to myself! I shall maintain my post here 
as long as I can, as a fortress of freedom ; but I shall not 
withhold a word of warning, in order to keep off the 
attacks that menace me, nor shall I go forth to meet them. 

All that J long after is beyond these trammels ;—leisure 
for reflection on the Divine which subsists in things human ; 
and for writing, if God enables me to do so. I live as one 
lamed ; the pinions that might have furthered my progress 
are bound, yet not broken. 

Sir James Stephen is to become Professor of Modern His- 
tory at Cambridge. He intends to lecture upon French 
History, and therewith to connect the general history of 
Kuropean civilisation. I observed to Prince Albert, that 
Stephen probably came to this determination from the 
desire to make Guizot’s work on the civilisation of France 
and of Kurope a foundation for his lectures ; but that pur- 
pose was ill judged, for the great epochs in art and science 
in the modern world belong to the Italians and the 
Germans, and not to the French. Yet much may be said 
for Guizot’s opinion, that the French have exercised so 
powerful an influence over the world; they form the 
medium between the practical English and the theoretical 
German. They have always best understood how to coin 
the gold of intelligence and bring it into circulation. But 
their influence is diminishing. 


152 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


The important thing would be, that Stephen should 
make of the Professorship of History a life-calling ; that he 
should dwve at Cambridge, and unceasingly labour to in- 
fluence the cultivation of mind in the youth of the Univer- 
sity, by a well carried out course of historical instruction, 
not only by aphoristic, dilettante lectures—although even 
such will constitute a step in advance. Stephen is said to 
be evangelical in principle, but not fanatical or narrow- 
minded, as is proved by his articles on Wilberforce and 
Hannah More. 

The Prince observed, when I had stated to him the 
theory of Guizot as to the relative position of the three 
nationalities to each other and to the world, that the 
danger of the French was in licentiousness; the. English- 
man’s besetting sin was selfishness; that of the German, 
self-conceit. Hvery German knows all and everything 
better than all others. 

I remarked to the Prince; that the single-action (Hin- 
spannigkeit) of the German was probably the consequence 
of our imperfect political condition, the want of centrali- 
sation; that individualising in things intellectual was a 
feature of character in the German, as federalism in things 
political. But were there a sufficient central power opposed 
firmly to this tendency, that would be just the requisite 
condition of the highest and most beneficial civilisation. 
England and France have a great advantage, in that each, 
by the joint operation of the most distinguished intellec- 
tual faculties to be found in each nation, can produce, and 
represent on every given occasion, the very best within its 
separate capacity; whereby the measure is given of what 
is attainable in that country—the standard is not only 
elevated but kept high. 


During the autumn of this year two days were 
spent at Fox How with Mrs. Arnold, wonderfully 
supported both in body and mind; Mr. and Mrs. 


ZiT. 58] THE AFRICAN EXPEDITION. 153 


Wordsworth were found well in health in their 
eightieth year, but utterly broken in spirit by the loss 
of their daughter, Mrs. Guillenan, two years before. 
The weather, unusually rainy during this expedition, 
allowed an interval in which to take a glimpse of 
some of the ‘scenes in strong remembrance set,’ to 
which all had, in the year 1839, been introduced by 
Dr. Arnold himself. On Saturday, 29th September, 
the party left Fox How, and reached in the afternoon 
Wootton Hall, in Staffordshire, from whence, two 
days later, Bunsen returned to London. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Llanover.) 
Carlton Terrace: Wednesday, 14th November, 1849. 

I am here, awaiting my African travellers, not yet ar- 
rived. Richardson finds he must start to-morrow, as the 
caravan for the Soudan leaves Ghat (a place already very 
‘deep in the desert) on February 2nd. Mrs. Richardson ac- 
companies him to Tripoli, where she awaits his return. 
Fairbairn is coming to-day to take his Berlin Commis- 
sioners in hand. Government has in a very handsome 
despatch thanked me for the plan and the mission of the 
two engineers. Stockmar arrived here on Monday, stayed 
all yesterday to have a good talk with me; will come again 
this morning, and goes to Windsor in the afternoon. 


~ Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington.* 
Carlton Terrace : Wednesday morning, 14th November, 1849. 
My pranest Motuer,—I cannot begin my day’s work 
before I have thanked you for your ever dear and precious 
words of love and affection! Dum spiro amo is the motto, 
I think, of one of your seals, but certainly it is that of your 
heart. You may believe me that I feel it; and that I do 


* This letter was the last ever written to her; two months later she 
had received the death-stroke. 


154 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1849 


so more and more, every time that I see yourself or your 
words. And love is the seal which God’s Spirit requires to 
find upon our souls; as one of the wisest and most pious of 
the Fathers (Clemens of Alexandria) says in explaining the 
saying of St. John to the same purpose, adding ‘ The Spirit 
is Truth.’ . I wish all those who consider themselves be- 
lievers would really believe in this word, and then certainly 
the result must be love to God and their neighbour. All 
our German speculation has at last come to this: that what 
the human heart believes in faith, but cannot prove to be 
true—is true ; and that love is the infallible exponent of 
faith in life. I believe also this to be at the bottom of 
what the Saviour has said of the sin against the Holy 
Ghost. There is no belief possible in Christ, without be- 
heving in the Spirit. 

Tam moved to write in this strain, because, although I 
am now in town for diplomatic business, my mind is full of 
the last three and a half happy days at Totteridge. I 
have at last come to the point, which I have been striving 
to obtain since 1817—‘ the Life of Christ ;’ and although 
I must begin by clearing the porch and outer hall of the 
temple, obstructed by the theologians still more than by 
the philosophers, yet do I perceive the breath of life pro- 
ceeding from the temple and its sanctuary. My dearest F. 
and M. have assisted me so well, that we have already cut 
out and pasted together, in the true chronological order, 
more than one-third of the four Gospels: I directing, M. 
finding the passage and cutting it out with her neat fingers, 
and F. receiving and registering all the pieces, and, after 
examination, finally pasting each in its proper place. When 
we tested our work on Tuesday morning, not one verse was 
found missing or misplaced. When J return, I hope to go 
on in the same manner, pasting in the evenings, and writing 
the outlines of the explanatory book during the day. When 
I have done, I shall go to Herstmonceaux, to read all to 
Hare. 


JET. 58] THE NEW PRUSSIAN CONSTITUTION. 155 


And now, my dear mother, I will harness myself, as Car- 
lyle says, for the day’s work. 
Ever your grateful and affectionate son, 
BUNSEN. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Llanover.) 
Saturday, 24th November, 1849. 


The expedition to Central Africa is settled. We are on 
the eve of great discoveries in Kastern Africa. Kilimand- 
jaro has been touched by travellers’ hands—it is a moun- 
tain like Chimborazo, an extinct volcano, 22,000 feet high. 
The sources of the Nile must be on the western slope, 
whither Redmann is gone. 


Dunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 
London: 10th January, 1850. 


Meanwhile there has been a most lamentable 
working upon the King’s mind, by the united Russian or 
Absolutist party and the Pietists. The latter have 
affected his conscience, saying that the Constitution was 
godless, destructive of the holy union between Church and 
State, that it had wnchristianised Prussia, &c. Were this 
sheer bigotry, I could tolerate it as error of conviction, but 
there is at the bottom a great amount of low and short- 
sighted interest of caste. The Constitution stipulates that 
the nobles of the ancient provinces shall in future pay the 
land-tax like all others. 

The King’s conscience, I helieve, is now righted ; but 
the secret is out: the King will hardly recover his place ih 
public estimation, although Vetter Michel is of a forgiving 
disposition. Fortunately, it is considered as what it is— 
weakness, not faithlessness; false scrupulosity, not word- 
breaking. At all events, the King freely gave the Consti- 
tution, 5th December, 1848, and it is now rather amended 
in the sense of moderation, The King receives the law 
back better for him than he gave it. 


156 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[Translation. | Carlton Terrace: 17th January, 1850. 


: . I remain silent owing to grief, which you will 
understand. Still I do believe in the possibility of an 
understanding between the Crown and a majority in the 
Chamber. 

I have received a most kind letter from the King. He 
desired, as he says, to write me a long letter, expressly to 
communicate congratulations with his original heartiness 
upon the engagement of my daughter Mary. Much love, 
but no politics, in the letter. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Llanover, after the death of her 
mother on the 18th January.) 
[ Translation. | London: February, 1850. 


. . . At Berlin all is right—although I have not yet read 
the King’s ‘last own speegh,’ as he called it—I belive, 
after all, it would have been better that he had not made 
it; but one must take him as he is, and he has to try to 
reconcile the 6th February, 1850, with the 3rd February, 
1847. Still everybody seems to be satisfied and pleased. 
The ceremony* was very solemn—the King affected to 
tears—all the bells rung, and 201 guns were fired, as he 
pronounced the sacred engagement. 

A passage has been found by G., showing that Milton 
was one of those who had called in question the authenti- 
city of the letter of Ignatius. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 


[ Translation. | London: Tuesday morning, 5th February, 1850. 


Last Saturday I buried a beloved mother, and I return 
from her grave (which her poor neighbours did not quit 


* Viz., of the King’s taking the solemn oath on the Prussian Consti- 
tution. 


ZEr, 58] INDUSTRIAL EXHIBITION OF 1851. . 157 


till they had filled it in with soil by single handfuls, that 
not the smallest stone might fall upon her coffin), to the 
bridal house from the house of death. Thus does the 
circling course of life reveal itself to our eyes. 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 


London: 20th February, 1850. 

You suppose I am going away from this country! I never 
dreamt of going—never was I more bound to London and 
England than at the present moment. Prussia is in the 
haven, as to herself; but the German Union, or ‘ United 
States of Germany,’ are yct to be born, and at this eleventh 
hour all the powers of evil double their efforts to prevent 
this great European birth, or rather this beginning of re- 
generation. But, ‘ porte inferi non prevalebunt contra 
eam!’ All the powers of the Continent are against us, 
and traitors arein the camp. ‘The Princes are wavering, 
more or less, now that the hour of danger is past. Still 
they are bound, by their popular parliaments, finances, and 
necessities, and cannot shake these off, as many do their 
words and engagements. 


A meeting was held on the 21st February, 1850, 
in Willis’s Rooms, on the proposed Great Industrial 
Exhibition of 1851, at which, after speeches made by 
Lord Carlisle, M. Van de Weyer, Mr. Abbott Law- 
rence, and the Bishop of London, Bunsen moved, in 
the following terms, the fourth resolution, expressive 
of the hope that all foreign nations would cordially 
promote the endeavour of England to carry out an 
undertaking in which all nations have an interest :— 


GENTLEMEN,—I believe this earnest hope is well founded ; 
I trust you will express it unanimously on this day, and I 
am sure the echo will come to you from all parts of the 
world, and the chorus of the response of nations will speak 


158 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


as harmoniously and as forcibly in reply. You have a right 
to expect from me the reason for anticipating with so 
much confidence such a result. My confidence is founded 
upon a general principle, in the truth of which I firmly 
believe, and to which all I have heard to-day from the noble 
Earl and my right reverend friend gives a powerful confirm- 
ation. 

This principle is—‘ Appeal frankly to the reason and 
goodwill of mankind, and mankind will answer you accord- 
ingly.’ Reason and goodwill are, thank God! as deeply- 
rooted in the human heart as the instinct of self-preserva- 
tion and self-interest. 

Whoever proposes what is based upon those eternal 
motives will find an echo in the human breast. Now, it is 
easy to prove, aud it must be clear to every foreign observer 
who has followed attentively the origin and progress of 
this great national movement, that the plan proposed is 
not useful to you alone, but to everybody, and that it is as 
reasonable and noble as it is calculated to promote your 
material interests. It addresses itself to the best feelings, 
as well as to the general intertst of other civilised nations. 
The Earl of Carlisle has proclaimed, and your applause has 
sanctioned, the great principle,—the admission is universal, 
the undertaking English; the Exhibition is international, 
the subscription national. 

This is a noble principle, and the only one worthy of the 
object and of yourselves. The response will be a corre- 
sponding one. The world, which has been your guest, will 
ask you to be theirs in their turn. You intend to admit, 
free of duty, all products of foreign industry to the Ex- 
hibition, as far as they are destined for this purpose only ; 
the same will be done to you in the future Exhibitions on 
the Continent of Europe and in the United States of 
America. . . . I rejoice to see your first houses everywhere 
the first in promoting this great national object. This 
spirit of true liberality does not surprise me. During a 


Fir. 58] SPEECH ON PROPOSED EXHIBITION OF 1851. 159 


stay at Birmingham and Manchester I had the opportunity 
of seeing with admiration how soon and how thoroughly 
all local and class interests gave way to patriotic and 
liberal feelings. . . . It was quite right that you should 
take the lead in a proposal which must form an epoch in 
the history of modern commerce and industry. Some 
years ago, Prussia gave the first example of an exhibition 
of all branches of industry for the whole of Germany, 
whether they belonged to the Prussian Customs’ Union or 
not. What Prussia has done for Germany, you are doing 
for the world. God bless you for it! It were very natural 
that you should entertam the anticipation of showing by 
such a gencral exhibition your own superiority; but the 
noble Karl has said, and I have heard it stated by other 
English authorities, that you think yourselves you may be 
beaten by foreigners m some branches of industry... . 
But, whatever the result of international competition for 
pre-eminence may be, I am sure of two things—first, that 
you will not fail to turn into triumph every defeat, if there 
be such, by your redoubled efforts to improve upon what 
you see others have done, and thus give a good example to 
others to do the same with similar energy and perseverance. 
Secondly, I am sure that you will prove yourselves superior 
in applying to general usefulness, and thus improving and 
diffusing over all classes of society and over all quarters 
of the world, the benefit of whatever may be invented by 
others. ... 

Your vast undertaking has also a political, and a still 
higher, I may say, a humanitary character, and these 
features will not be the last to be acknowledged and hailed 
by the other nations, and secure their zealous co-operation. 
All epochs and eras in history have their peculiar signs 
and symbols; there are, I am sure, many present here who 
recollect the Congresses of Princes of former periods. 
They began by assemblies of mighty emperors for ambitious 
purposes, and prospective warlike expeditions; then, after 


160 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


the peace had been secured, followed more peaceful Con. 
gresses of Princes for the preservation of the same; they 
did not produce, however, the desired effect, nor were 
people much satisfied with their results. Now, the symbols 
of a new era are peaceful associations for intellectual pur- 
poses and general improvements; lately, we have had 
Congresses for the improvement of prisons, and for peace 
itself. All nations want peace, but peace, lke all other 
heavenly gifts, must be nursed and cherished sedulously, 
reverently, incessantly. Peaceful meetings of nations for 
practical purposes and social improvements are the natural 
signs, indeed, the necessary pledges, of peaceable dispositions 
among the mighty nations of the earth; and there was the 
other day a clause adopted in a city meeting which bears 
immediately upon this question—the only machines and 
instruments to be excluded from this Universal Exhibition 
are to be those of destruction. I remember it was a striking 
circumstance, that when that general German Exhibition to 
which I have alluded took place in 1844, the Prussian 
Government, in looking out for the best public building to 
be sclected for that Exhibitidh, chose the celebrated Arsenal 
at Berlin. Thus, this magnificent building was emptied 
for that purpose, and the products of peaceful industry 
became, for months at Jeast, the inmates of the storehouse 
and very sanctuary of war. But the principle you have 
lately sanctioned holds out a lasting protest against war 
and strife; you have by that act expressed that the arts of 
destruction ought not to be encouraged by national exhi- 
bitions and prizes. I am not over sanguine in my expecta- 
tions; there is, and always will be; a mighty counteracting 
power of passions and evil desires, but there is a rational 
hope of gradual progress. . . . It is my firm belief that 
every good thing will be done whenever it can be done; 
and it can be done whenever the conviction becomes general 
among good and wise men that it ought to be done. I 
therefore would urge upon you to believe firmly in these 


Et. 58] SPEECH ON PROPOSED EXHIBITION OF 1851. 161 


principles, and to act boldly up to them; and be assured 
beforehand of the grateful acknowledgment and sympathy 
of all nations. They all want peace, and their immense 
majority strive and yearn no less for order in liberty than 
for liberty in order. The whole spirit of the undertaking 
calls our thoughts to something which appears to be even 
higher than what is generally called political relations; it 
may, under Divine Providence, become a signal progress in 
the great cause of humanity, of civilisation, and, therefore, 
of Christianity. Do you not think it a sign of the times 
that the Consort of the Queen of this mighty empire should 
have been the first to conceive, and the most zealous to 
promote, this Universal Mecting of civilised nations in 
this marvellous metropolis; that the Queen herself should 
come forward with her mighty word and bright example ; 
that this idea and proposal should be taken up so energeti- 
cally throughout this mighty empire as a great national 
cause; that the dignitaries of the Church should vie with 
the statesman, the nobleman with the manufacturer, and 
the artisan and operative with the master, In supporting 
this great national and social question, as a good work for 
everybody; that all nations should be ready to hear the 
announcement with joy and sympathy and honest rivalry— 
only two years after one of the greatest, most extensive, 
and deepest commotions in European society arose, and 
when the waves of that modern deluge have not yet sub- 
sided ? I see already with my muind’s eye hundreds of 
thousands of the most ingenious and enlightened classes of 
all civilised nations assembled, first here, in this ark of 
social order during the late deluge, and on this rock of 
true liberty ; and later, at Paris and im the other capitals 
on this and on the other side of the Atlantic. I see the 
visitors admiring not only the cattle show, and the imple- 
ments for agriculture, and the whole phalanx of the ma- 
chinery of industry, but also the master-pieces of genius 
and taste. I behold mentally the wise and good men of 


VOL. II. M 


162 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


all nations successively meeting in assemblies more elevated 
in object than those of the Olympic Games, and exchanging 
with each other wise thoughts and fruitful speculations. 
And do you not see with me how the walls of separation 
(unfortunately, still more or less connected with nationality) 
must fall down, not only before the trumpets of general 
industry and rivalry, but from the irresistible force of 
common feelings of brotherhood, of a consciousness that 
every nation in its day has to run the same glorious race of 
a truly ennobling progress of the leavening the things of 
this world with something higher, and freer, and nobler, 
and everlasting P Do you see how prejudices and evil 
feelings, still separating nations from nations, and brethren 
from brethren, will disappear before such an effusion of 
light and community like spectres and demons of night? 
Go on then, gentlemen — take the lead in this noble 
career—Europe and the civilised world has its eyes upon 
you; you have undertaken a work of astounding magni- 
tude, carry it out in that noble spirit in which it has been 
conceived. Fulfil the praphetic words of your poet!* Go 
on; give out the word of friendship and peace to all nations 
—-and the good men and good women of all nations will 
say, Amen! and the angels in heaven will say, Amen! 


Bunsen to his Son Henry. 
London, Foreign Office: 8th March, 1850, four o’clock. 


I am this moment come from the Privy Council, and have 
heard the most remarkable judgment pronounced, which 


* A passage from Pope had been quoted by Lord Carlisle at the close 
of his speech : 

‘The time shall come, when, free as seas or wind, 
Unbounded Thames shall flow for all mankind ; 

Whole nations enter with each swelling tide, 

And seas but join the regions they divide: 

Earth’s distant ends our glories shall behold, 

And the new world launch forth to meet the old.’ 


ZEr. 58] JUDGMENT ON THE GORHAM CASE. 163 


since the Reformation and the civil wars has ever been given 
in this country on a great point of faith. The judgment of 
the Lower Court is reversed; Mr. Gorham’s opinions not 
being heretical according to the Church of England, he has a, 
right to beinducted. The contrary opinion would be against 
the clear principles of the Church of England, and danger- 
ous to all subjects of Her Majesty, both for their spiritual 
and temporal interests. The Articles were to be taken as 
the doctrinal expression of the Church; the Liturgy as the 
devotional expression. The Burial Service would alone 
suffice to prove that the expressions of a Liturgy ought to 
be interpreted with restrictions, not unconditionally, The 
judgment goes besides through the Baptismal Service itself, 
and abstaining from all theological opinions, comes on legal 
ground to the decision. 

It is remarkable, that, as stated in the Exordium, the two 
Archbishops fally agree with this judgment, the Bishop of 
London not (though he sat with them to hear the appeal). 
I can guess his difficulty; he would not give up, what he 
once brought forward, that Rubrics and Liturgy also were 
to be used to find out the doctrine of the Church. My ex- 
cellent and truly vencrable friend does not see that Rubrics 
and Liturgy may be used to relax and take off the edges of 
doctrinal formularies, but not to make them more strict and 
cutting. There is the mistake. In the latter sense I always 
have stood up for a Liturgy: but, God knows, never in the 
other sense, Besides, people ought to consider that the 
Rubrics and liturgy were never intended to be a regula fidei, 
but only a rule of discipline, for good order. 

Well, my dear Henry, this is an important day for your 
Church. May God bless it! I sat on the Privy Council 
seats, behind the right side of the Judges, along with Dr. 
Wiseman! Going out I met first W. Goode (the protagon- 
ist of the Evangelicals), with whom I shook hands, and who 
was blissful: then my way was stopped in the lobby by two 
persons—and who were they ? Archdeacon Wilberforce and 


M 2 


164 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


Hope. They drooped their heads, and after some silence, 
going on and I following them, Archdeacon W. said, ‘ Well, 
at least there is no mistake about it.’ In which I heartily 
concur. B. has already announced (in a sermon) that he will 
go out. Bon voyage! 


The month of April, 1850, was marked to Bunsen 
and his family by an event rejoiced in at the time, and 
ever after dwelt upon with earnest satisfaction—the 
marriage of his third daughter Mary to Mr. John B. 
Harford, of Stoke, near Bristol, on April 4: on which 
occasion it was found possible to collect all the ten 
children, five sons and five daughters, for the second 
time, the first having been at the time of the mar- 
riage of his son Ernest. A third such meeting was 
not to take place; the difference of age between the 
eldest and youngest being nineteen years, they never 
were all assembled in childhood under the parental 
roof, although each arid all first saw the light in the 
same place, on the Capitol at Rome. A very serious 
illness followed this gratification of Bunsen’s. hopes 
and wishes: and he was for many days confined to 
bed by bronchitis and a gastric affection, for his entire 
recovery from which much time was required, even 
after he had returned to his accustomed activity. 
This was the description of disorder to which he from 
henceforth was perpetually subject,—preceding and 
accompanying the attacks of suffocation, which proved 
the gradual steps, in accelerated progression, of the 
mortal affection of the heart with which he struggled 
for ten years longer. 


fET. 58] DEATILT OF SIR ROBERT PEEL. 165 


Lziract from Daughters’ Diaries. 


Tuesday, 2nd July.—My father dined with Mr. Hudson 
Gurney, to meet Anna Gurney. In the evening Lady 
Waldegrave’s splendid ball was overcast, and in a measure 
broken up, by the melancholy news of Sir Robert Peel’s 
death at half-past eleven o’clock. We went home, and so 
did many people. Ever since Sir Robert Peel has been con- 
sidered in danger, a crowd has besieged the entrance of his 
house, and a bulletin was from time to time read aloud by a 
policeman. The deep and silent grief of all classes is most 
affecting. 

3rd July.—The all-absorbing subject of interest has been 
collecting and hearing everything that can be known about 
Sir Robert Peel; the newspapers give an interesting sum- 
mary of his life, and some of them were edged with black 
out of respect for him. The Queen’s grief is excessive: she 
is in a constant flood of tears, and with the greatest difficulty 
could be prevailed upon to hold the Levee, which, having 
been fixed for this day, could not be put off. Many expres- 
sions of hers are quoted, showing her full sense of the loss 
she herself and the country have sustained :—‘ I have lost, 
not merely a friend, but a father.’ 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[Translation. | London: 17th July, 1850. 


The loss of Peel can never be supplied. The Queen and 
the Prince have shown, on the occasion of this calamity, 
their own high standing in human nature. Altogether, 
what a treasure of sincerity, truth, and noble feeling is there 
in this royal pair! What a blessing for the country! A 
great impression has been made upon the Prince of Prussia 
by such a degree of mourning for a public servant. 


166 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 
9, Carlton Terrrace: Tuesday, 31st July, 1850. 


I intend to depart Thursday morning for Antwerp, to be 
at Bonn on Saturday early. I have leave of absence for the 
month of August. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. ] 
Monday, 5th August, 1850, Antwerp, Hotel de St.-Antoine. 

Here we have landed, after the most ideally beautiful pas- 
sage. The porpoises came dancing on the waves to meet us 
at the Nore, and at the North Foreland shoals of mackerel ; 
then a glorious sunset over the moving lake, and after that, 
what a night! All round the vessel a phosphorescence like 
the Mediterranean, and the stars as it were obtruding them- 
selves on my naked eye. I have been on deck all day; at 
half-past ten lay down on a sofa and slept quietly till near 
five o’clock, when I went on deck, and found myself in the 
Scheldt, with a sand-bank around, and no vessels. What a 
change from the last time of looking out! But the sky was 
more blue, and the sun hotter. Then we landed. We are 
three minutes’ walk from the cathedral, and I intend to stay 
here, instead of proceeding to iron Liege. Nothing is want- 
ing but the one thing, wanted every hour,—and that is your 
dear self, with the group around you. If Iam not strangely 
mistaken, I may bestow myself as a birthday present on 
the 25th. 


Bunsen to his Wife, 
fTranslation. | Bonn: Thursday, 15th August, 1850. 


Lepsius came back last night, two days earlier than his 
promise. We have worked all morning, and shall have done 
on Saturday. On Sunday I go to wait upon the Princess of 
Prussia, and sleep at Cologne. The King expects me at Ber- 
lin, so Abeken writes, and Lepsius tellsme. To avert such 
a calamity, I must be off before my four weeks are over. I 


Air, 59] FIRST SYMPTOMS OF DANGEROUS ILLNESS. 167 


shall, therefore, send off my letter from Cologne ; when the 
King receives it, I shall be on my way to London; whither 
I shall return on the 24th straight. 


Bunsen executed his purpose, and was restored to 
his family on August 24th, pleased to hear that a plan 
had been made to spend his birthday (the 25th) in an 
afternoon expedition to see Hatfield, to be met by 
Lady Raffles and some young friends of his daugh- 
ters—the whole forming a numerous and cheerful 
party, not one of whom could have anticipated the 
cloud which was to overcast the whole, in the disco- 
very, then first made, of Bunsen’s inability to walk 
even a short distance, from oppression on the chest. 
At Bonn he had first made the melancholy experience 
of this new infirmity, which he comforted himself 
with regarding as transitory, and had refrained from 
mentioning in his letters; nor could he yet make 
clear to himself that his physical existence was threat- 
ened, and his bodily powers no longer what they had 
been. With frequent resting, and much discomfort, 
he accomplished the round of the sights at Hatfield 
and of part of the park with the rest: but he had not 
been three days at home before the ever-increasing 
suffocation became complicated with a gastric disorder, 
from which, after many days, the strenuous regimen, 
imposed by the treatment of Dr. Curie, restored him 
to comfort and comparative health. But he was or- 
dered to take a bare quantity of indispensable food, 
with strict regard to diet, as to the quality and 
number of meals. Dr. Curie did not utter the sen- 
tence, implied in the term ‘disorder of the heart ;’ 


168 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


but his advice coincided with that of Sir Henry Hol- 
land two years later, who was the first person to give 
the true name to this breaking-up of health and ease. 
This disorder was critical in more ways than one ; for 
Bunsen had returned from his journey with the full 
determination at once to take leave of absence for a 
year, preparatory to a final resignation of his post 
and of diplomatic life; and his wife at his desire had 
commenced preparations for a family-removal, when, 
the illness intervening, the plan was indefinitely post- 
poned. 


Bunsen to One of his Sone. 
[Translation. ] 
London : Wednesday morning, 25th September, 1850. 

I have undertaken an immense work about the Chinese 
Dictionary, but it certainly will not be lke the labour of 
Sisyphus. The ripened frué is already there; the gold lies 
revealed in daylight—whcether the shaft be a productive one 
or not, leading into the heart of the world’s history, the 
event alone can show. I have extracted 180 out of the 400 
roots, and already worked out 70 of the ntmber. Thereby 
it has become highly probable to me, that for each of the 400 
roots the ‘hieroglyph’ is yet to be found; Rémusat says, 
he believes there exist 200 such, but I find many besides, 
which he scems to have overlooked. It is most natural, that 
there should have been as many hieroglyphs as words— 
otherwise the one-half must have consisted of compound 
hieroglyphics. Such there are—for instance, Sun and Eye 
together= Light. But each root must have been connected 
originally with a simple symbol. The system of writing was 
consolidated about 2950 years before Christ. The dryness 
of the work 1s relieved by the enjoyment of the naive poetry 
of the original language in transmitting significations. 


LET. 59] LETTER TO PLATNER. 169 


Bunsen to Platner (Saxon Chargé d’ Affaires at Rome). 


[ Translation. | London: 30th September, 1850. 


It was very kind in you to send me a few lines by our 
friend Emil Braun, with an account of yourself. More espe- 
cially do I rejoice to perceive that you are not only in health 
and strength at your advanced time of life, but that you re- 
tain that freshness and freedom of spirit, without which life 
is not life, and old age becomes a torment and chastisement. 
I learn from your communications that you, like myself, have 
steered again into the haven of free speculation and science, 
out of which we both sailed in youth into the open sea of 
present struggle and action. [ have been led back into that 
harbour of refuge by enquiry and thought, and the course of 
life and its experiences ; and I thank God, that I have not, 
either as a thinker or as a believer, suffered shipwreck, or 
bartered my liberty for any form whatsoever. 

I too have studied Giordano Bruno in late years with 
peculiar interest and deep sympathy; the recent occasion 
having been the translation of Schelling’s Dialogue, Bruno, 
by that truly uncommon woman, the Marchesa Florenzi 
Waddington, into the most exquisite Italian, with admirable 
intelligence and comprehension,—-which she requested me 
to examine critically with her ; and I did so the more readily, 
as her work had been one not of vanity, but of benevolence 
towards an Italian philosopher, Mamiani, eighty years of 
age, who, unacquainted with German, longed to read the 
work of Schelling in his own fine language. 

The work of Bartolmés of Strasburg (which received 
the prize in 1847), ‘Sur la Vie et les Ecrits de Giordano 
Bruno,’ gave me a second occasion of becoming more 
nearly acquainted with that strange, erratic, comet-like 
spirit, marked by genius, but—a Neapolitan ; whose life was 
but a fiery fragment. But, indeed, all that is of man 1s no 
more than a fragment! Even Schelling finds it impossible 


170 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1850 


to come to a close; his great work is not likely to appear 
till after his death, for he will be applying the file to the 
last moment. I can never cease to regret his having over- 
loaded himself with philosophical-historical matter, so that 
the ballast became too massive for the fire-ship Iread his 
earlier works with increasing admiration. .. . 

For political information, I refer you to Braun; and only 
assure you, with the frankness of an old friend, that you 
commit an anachronism in considering Kings and Princes 
(since 1848) as the leaders in German politics. 

Das gewaltige Schicksal, 

Meinen Herrn und Deinen. 
‘Events and mighty Fate—My Lord and Thine’ (as the 
divine Géthe says) are driving on the German national 
movement, which, after a short triumph of dynastic selfish- 
ness or blindness, will annihilate all the powers of evil which 
have been arrayed against it. We are already well ad- 
vanced in Germany, although but in the first act of our con- 
stitutional development. Tje storm is over, and has cleared 
the atmosphere. ... 


Bunsen to Friend Kestner, in his Museo-Kestneriano, Roma. 
[ Translation. | London: 30th September, 1850, morning. 


.... Jt was sad that our intention of mecting on the 
Rhine came to nothing. If you can but come here in 185], 
I hope it will be either late (end of July) or early (end of 
April), for between those dates I shall have no quiet: and 
you must live nowhere but with us. I have a real need to 
have a thorough intercourse, and a fresh weaving-in of life, 
with you. . 

... + We have read latterly in the evenings your 
‘Rémische Studien’ with great pleasure,—the images of 
Roman life and of your own life are refreshing. I hope this 
valuable little book will make its way, at this time of poli- 
tical evolution and provocation,—in spite of the mental 
confusion and narrowness which result therefrom. 


ZET. 59] LETTER TO ONE OF HIS SONS. 171 


What joy has been reflected, in our house, by the beam- 
ing countenance of our Mary, returned from her wedding 
tour, Braun can tell you. 

To yourself I wish a continuance of life untroubled in your 
chosen country of the arts, for I am convinced that you can 
only live at Rome; but all the more should you pay visits 
to the friends ultra montes, in Germany and England. 

My wife will write herself. How often we miss that re- 
flex of all grace and goodness, our mother, gone to her home ! 
And Christiana, too, is also gone, before her... . 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 
[Translation. ] Windsor Castle: 4th January, 1851. 


Soon comes the tempest of the World’s Exhibition and 
migration of nations—perhaps also of politics now slum- 
bering in our disgrace. My duty is of course to hold out 
until the end of the Exhibition, but then with all caution to 
endeavour after the execution of the plan of removal, which 
the hand of God so decidedly defeated last year—as I can 
now perceive, according to the eternal wisdom of His 
fatherly Providence. Imeditate going in August on leave 
of absence with your mother to Bonn, with purpose to re- 
turn only to take final leave. All this I shall talk over 
with you when you come in February—of course the plan 
is not to be spoken of; the Ministry would be too happy to 
send me away, but the King supports me faithfully and 
powerfully. My recall was demanded by Austria and pro- 
posed by Manteuffel. You know the reasons which make 
it a duty on my part not readily to yield to my adversaries 
this important post. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 


[Translation.] London: Monday, 6th January, 1851. 


The only thing important in a despatch received from 
Berlin to-day,—the first sign of life from that quarter since 
Ist November of last year,—is that, to judge from the 


172 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1851 


expressions made use of, the London Protocol at least is not 
to be signed. 

The days passed at Windsor have greatly refreshed and 
strengthened me; and I shall never forget your friendship 
then shown to me. 


Bunsen having been very generally supposed to 
have suggested the idea of the first Great Industrial 
Exhibition which in such various ways engrossed 
attention during the year 1851, it is necessary to 
insist upon the fact of his having had no other con- 
nection with the project, than by taking a strong 
interest in its accomplishment, and working with all 
the zeal and energy of his character in favour of the 
design of Prince Albert, and in defence of it. That 
it did not originate with him, is a simple fact ; but it 
may also be said that the idea was not of the kind 
native to his mind, to which the whole mass of 
interests connected with trade and the perfecting 
of objects of industry was foreign, and which could 
only enter upon the entire subject historically and 
statistically. Bunsen admired the royal grasp of 
mind in Prince Albert, which led to a conception 
productive of such beneficial and lasting effects, and 
perceived from the first, that the results could hardly 
fail to tend to that friendly amalgamation of nations 
in the pursuit of arts and objects of peace, towards 
which all his own efforts and wishes tended. The 
variety and virulence of objection made to a proposal 
for a comparative view of the products of various 
countries and of the results of industry of all nations, 
with a view to stimulate talent and to offer examples 


Er. 59] OPINIONS ON THE EXHIBITION. 173 


on all hands—however rational and natural it may 
seem to be, now that the complete success of Prince 
Albert’s design has created an insatiable desire of 
such Exhibitions—-would seem incredible, were it not 
sufficiently fixed in the memory of the contemporaries 
whose patience was tried by it; and Bunsen and his 
family were peculiarly exposed to the brunt of animad- 
version on the supposed absurdities of the plan, and 
the dangers and inconveniences anticipated, from the 
general attribution of the blame to him as being its 
originator. The greater part of the Corps Diploma- 
tique made open show of the ill-humour felt and ex- 
pressed by their respective Courts; the sentiments 
of which prevailed over the mind of the Kine of 
Prussia to such an extent, that in the first instance 
his permission was refused to the Prince and Princess 
of Prussia to accept the invitation of Queen Victoria, 
and was finally granted rather in consideration of the 
decided wish of the Prince to make the proposed visit, 
than in eonsequence of the arguments and the evi- 
dence which Bunsen forcibly brought before His Ma-~ 
jesty, to prove the tales of conspiracy which in conti- 
nental courts were received as credible to be whally 
fictitious. 

A nation which reads newspapers 1s capable of being 
acted upon by opinion, and of acting In unison as one 
man ; and certainly, from whatever cause, the opening 
of the Exhibition of the Ist of May, 1851, was a de- 
cided success—the weather was perfect, and the 
general good humour, as well as the demeanour and 
behaviour of the countless multitudes, proved that 
the English public resolved to do all honour to them- 


- 174 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1851 


selves, and the day, and the cause of popular in- 
terests, as well as to the Queen and to her Govern- 
ment. 
Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[Translation. | London: 18th January, 1851. 


. . The unmeasured expressions in the letters of X. and 

Y. and Z., as well as the utterances of L. and G. and other 
friends that have been repurted to me from Berlin,—and, 
at the same time, the assertions in a letter of Humboldt’s, 
subdued in language by eighty-two years of age and by 
Court life, yet in another way exciting, have brought my 
heart, already agitated by parting from Radowitz, into such 
a commotion and dashing of waves, that I find it doubly 
tranquillising to address to you a few lines, and seek in 
contemplation of you, of your patriotism, of your friendship, 
and of your steadiness of political judgment, to moderate 
the inward storm, and in some degree to lghten the 
burden that weighs upon me. It is hard indeed, in such a 
time, to be the servant of # King, and not a free man. 
But I am where God placed me. . . . Every man who is 
above fifty years old bears his history upon his own back. 
It is of no use to endeavour to make men other than they 
are: but where evil does not rule as a principle, and the 
Divine spark is not quite extinguished, much can be accom- 
plished, if the just complement can be found. 

May God be with you, anf the God-favoured Royal pair 
with whom you dwell! 

With a faithful, much saddened, but not desponding 
heart, BuNSEN. 


To the Same. 
[Translation.] London: Thursday morning, 18th March, 1851. 


Kiinzel wishes to give a characteristic sketch of Peel— 
and that is what you alone can write, or dictate. Pray do 
it. Life is short, and your words will remain. I refer 


Zit. 59} CORRESPONDENCE WITH STOCKMAR., 175 


you to-day, meanwhile, to your own letter (sent, I think, to 
the ‘ Deutsche Zeitung’) on the subject of the cavillers 
against Peel in Germany, in the autumn of 1850. You 
once devoted much time to Guizot, and I rejoice that you 
can now place Peel on a German pillar of honour,—that 
would be a work far more rewarding the effort, and for 
Germans more instructive, and more especially consoling. 

One of my dearest and best friends, Lachmann, has died 
in his fifty-eighth year, at Berlin. I am much grieved by 
this loss. Tieck too is dead. 

. . . The Tories are still spreading the alarm of plague, 
famine, insurrection, &c. &c., as likely to be the effect of 
the Exhibition. Mundus insanit. I am in ‘ Egypt.’ 


To the Same. 


[Translation. ] 26th April, 1851. 
. . . The Prince of Prussia is to arrive in the afternoon 
of the 29th... . I am finishing the fourth volume of 


‘Egypt’ for the press, having in the latter months re- 
touched the second and third for the English edition. The 
results are still more decisive than I had expected. The 
history of nations can, approximately, be carried on up to 
9,000 years before our time; the history of the dream- 
period, in which language and mythology arose, extends to 
between 15,000 and 20,000 years; and all this in the 
development of the race of our blood-relations. But our 
chronology extends with astronomical certainty to above 
3,600 years before Christ. 

Old President Schén has written me an admirable letter ; 
he is, in his eighty-seventh year, still full of hope for Ger- 
many and Prussia, and for the victory of what is right and 
good, and of the spirit and intelligence of the nation, just as 
when he wrote the letters to Stein in 1812 and 1818, which I 
hope you will have read in the ‘ Life of Stein,’ vol. m1. B.,.. 


176 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1851 


Bunsen to Julius Schnorr von Carolsfeld. 
[ Translation. ] London: 28th April, 1851. 

I rejoice to see in your case that misfortune and trial 
better reveal what is in the man, than good fortune; and 
that you maintain equanimity im the one case as well as in 
the other. Who could have beheved, dear friend, that 
there had been in Germany so much wickedness and faith- 
lessness ? Still we sing the Magnificat, out of which, in 
the indignation of your honest heart, you quote a suitable 
verse. I fear these times will deprive many a man of faith 
in the Divine government of the world—short-sighted 
though they be. Pray read with me the seventy-third 
Psalm, as I have translated it. 

Do you know, dear friend, that I think you ought to 
come to London during the Exhibition? My proposal is, 
that you should alight here, No. 9, Carlton Terrace, where 
your room is ready for you. The sooner you come, the 
better—says the mistress of the house, with best greeting. 
Surely, you will come ? 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. } April, 1851. 


Tell your excellent B that he should not take it ill 
of Germans, that they give him as an Israelite the hind- 
most place :—that will not be of long continuance ; it is ever 
more becoming clear to me, in beholding the Jewish dis- 
pensation from the stand-point of universal history, that 
whoever will not give up the world’s history in despair, 
must assume in his own soul the future fact of the Chris- 
tianising, Hellenising, Germanising, of the Jewish system ; 
and say to himself, as a son of Israel, that he is thus brought 
nearer to Abraham than he was before. Such sons of 
Israel must, therefore, help the sons of Japhet to Hellenise 
Christianity, to raise it to the idea of entire humanity; in 
other words, to found the true Hero-worship with the one 





ZEr. 59] OPENING OF THE GREAT EXHIBITION. 177 


true Dionysos-Osiris at its head. That sounds absurd, but 
is yet true! 


Extract from a Daughter's Letter. 
Carlton Terrace: 3rd May, 1851. 

. ... IT hope you will have heard something of my 
mother’s impression of the splendid opening of the Exhibi- 
tion on Thursday, the 1st—and I wish you could hear how 
my father speaks about it—he was so happy that all had 
turned out so well, that in the evening after EH. and G. had 
sung many favourite pieces of Handel and Mendelssohn 
and Neukomm, he asked us all to join in a few verses of 
‘Sei Lob und Ehr dem hochsten Gut ’—as the only appro- 
priate expression of his feelings of thankfulness and entire 
satisfaction. He looks upon this Exhibition as most im- 
portant also in a political point of view, in honouring the 
interests of the people at large, by an assemblage of the 
people, attended and countenanced and sympathised in by 
royalty and nobility; not as in former times, a costly 
gathering of and for kings and princes and grandees alone, 
with attendants and spectators. 


Bunsen to Max Miller. 


[Translation. ] Carlton Terrace: seven a.m., 15th May, 1851. 
(Olymp. 11. 1, by German chronology.) 
I must after all take my early hour for writing to yon, 
instead of writing or preparing a chapter for my fifth book 
on ‘Egypt;’ for I foresee that the day’s flood, beginning 
with breakfast-time, will not have ebbed till after midnight : 
and I must utter to you two sorts of things: first, my 
thanks and congratulations for the plan of your lectures. 
You have considered the Epos in its full significance as to 
universal history, and for the first time brought it in con- 
nection with the earliest time of the epic nations, and their 
original consciousness of language. That has given me in- 
expressible pleasure, and revived in me the longing after your 
VOL. Ii. N 


178 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1851 


presence, and of being enabled to read to you some chapters, 
the writing of which has been an exquisite delight to me. 

I undertook the restoration of the time of the patriarchs, 
in the belief of their reality, and by the method I have 
followed all through: and the greatness of the result has 
astonished me. Having finished this section, I felt the 
courage to add to the Preface composed last Easter, an In- 
troduction, entitled ‘ History and Method of the Contem- 
plation of the History of Humanity:’ and have thus 
reverted, as by a stroke of magic, to the last Paradise of my 
innermost consciousness of life; my prescient grasp of 
future discovery having been in the solemn nights from 
1812 to 1813 consecrated into a vow; and the statement 
thereof having been written at Berlin, to ask the con- 
firmation of Niebuhr in the last weeks of my German (as 
distinguished from my cosmopolite) life—January, 1816. 

What I wrote down in 1816 now comes full and fresh be- 
fore my mind, after thirty-five years: my Indian voyage is 
become an Egyptian voyage, and the life-voyage tends to- 
wards its close. But having, since 1816, sought the form 
and the occasion for seizing that original idea of youth, as 
a fixed point of aim, having devoted to it the life of life, 
thought, research, inquiry: having, in the narrow valleys 
of active duty and of individual investigation, lost sight of 
the glorious prospects from sunny summits (except in single 
moments of rapturous vision)—now, at length, has the 
flood of Egyptian inquiry, after a quarter of a century, lifted 
me once again upon the Ararat from whence I had descended 
into the conflict of existence. I only intended to give a 
summary view of the mode of treating the world’s history : 
and to my astonishment something different has come out, 
at which I start back amazed, but gaze with rapture, and 
devote myself with all my heart’s youthful glow. 

I believe I have to acknowledge a part of my happiness 
as procured to me by enemies and opponents ; for what the 
newspaper says is true, not only the Prussian Camarilla and 


ZEn. 59] LETTER TO MAX MULLER. 179 


her instruments in the Ministry, but those higher powers 
which seek to strangle in their embrace both Prussia and 
Germany, have demanded of the King my recall; but as yet 
he has supported me with the faithfulness of a friend, as well 
as of a King. Such attacks rouse in me at once both rage 
and courage: and since on the day of receiving the intelli- 
gence of our thorough defeat (20th November, 1850), I de- 
termined to complete my Egyptian work, God has graciously 
imparted to me such courage abundantly. Never have I 
worked with such a satisfactory result, since that time 
when, besieged on the Capitol by the Pope, and left to my 
fate by Berlin from the 6th January to Easter Sunday, 
1888, I first designed the five books on Egypt... . 

I have still something to suggest about the ‘ Nibel- 
ungen.’ Your admirable letter ripened in my mind a 
thought which often has shot through it,—that the slightly 
veiled historical foundations of the poem, as well as its 
most ancient nationalities, have never been sufficiently ex- 
amined into and brought into evidence. Grimm does not 
care for what is historical, farther than his own ‘ Begin- 
nings of Nations’ are concerned: and my deceased Lachmann 
was always disinclined to concern himself with it. When 
I wrote for Chateaubriand (in 1825) that short essay in 
French which he printed in his ‘ Mélanges,’ I read through 
all that had been published on the point which most nearly 
concerned me, and was surprised at the scantiness of matter 
collected; and since that time I have not heard of any 
further enquiry on the subject. Yet how can one believe 
that the notices of Giinther and the Burgundians in the 
poems, should stand alone and single of their kind? To 
me it is clear, for example, that the myth which brings 
Attila and the great Theodoric of the Visigoths together as 
contemporaries, has its historical root in the fact, that 
Theodoric King of the Visigoths fell in the critical battle of 
Chalons, 451, contending against Attila, while his son 
Thorismund, rallying the forces to revenge the death of his 

N 2 


180 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1851 


father, by a last effort overcame the Barbarians, and proved 
himself the victor: whereupon the Franks drove the Huns 
across the Rhine. Hence itis that Attila is connected with 
the great King of the Ostrogoths (who lived forty years 
later), and with the royal house of the Visigoths, and their 
kingdom itself—with all which nevertheless Attila could 
have had nothing to do. By neglecting such scattered 
particulars, one falls at last into the Gérres-Grimm-twilight, 
in which not only everything is everything, but everything 
becomes nothing. Htzel is to the perceptions of Grimm xot 
Attila, but a ‘raillery of tradition,’ allowing of no certain 
conclusion, I find, on the contrary, that wherever the in- 
strument is not wanting to point out and prove the process 
of fermentation and decomposition in the historical materials, 
out of which (by a mode perfectly analogous to the process 
of originating language in the first period of man) the epic 
tradition organically proceeds, the genius of epic poetry, 
when its due time is come, interposes its grasp, with an 
historical consciousness of gestiny ; as does the tragic poet 
ata later period. If you should have time, pray follow up 
this track... . 

The Exhibition is and will remain the most poetical 
event of our time, and one deserving a place in the world’s 
history. Les Anglais ont fart de la poésie sans s’en douter, 
as M. Jourdain was found to have made prose. As soon as 
you can, come to see the Exhibition and us! 


Extract from a Letter of «a Daughter. 
9, Carlton Terrace: 25th August, 1851. 


I should like to procure you a glimpse of our usual lun- 
cheon and tea-table, which (particularly the latter) is gene- 
rally surrounded by an average number of from twenty to 
twenty-six guests, very various and distinct from each other. 
First, you would see Wichern, from Hamburg, with his 
tall commanding figure, and his fine, mild, but yet decided 
and energetic countenance, and his deep bass is always 


Er. 60] LETTER TO HIS WIFE. 181 


heard pervading all other voices. Then (usually sitting 
next him) Bernays, from Bonn, forms the strangest possible 
contrast, with his small, quicksilver figure, and black- 
bearded, restless, clever face. Then Lieber, from America, 
with his fixed, melancholy, sentimental look, joining never- 
theless in conversation with great zest and interest, always 
mixing in strange outlandish compliments. Next to him, 
Waagen, with his inexhaustible fund of good humour and 
anecdote, always for the benefit of every one within reach of 
listening. Then Gerhard, with his benevolent expression, 
ready either for serious or learned talk, or for any joke or 
fun that may be going on; and his wife, with her never- 
failing, mild cheerfulness and interest in everything, without 
any fuss or fidgeting, thus giving only pleasure in daily in- 
tercourse and no trouble. These are the inmates of the 
house, to which you must suppose in addition a regular 
supply of unexpected guests drop in at every meal. Yester- 
day, Pastor Krummacher came with two daughters to make 
a, call ; and while we detained his daughters here, he joined 
Wichern and several others to inspect some Ragged Schools. 
They returned about eight o’clock, when the home set were 
just ready to rise from table, so room could be made for 
the five who entered. ... 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
St. Leonard’s: 4th September, 1851. 


I must tell you myself how happy I am, and how well ! 
The strengthening effect of the sea air is not to be described. 
I have only to take care not to be too much excited; for I 
should prefer never tosleep, but work on, except when lying 
. stretched out on the beach, as I feel no fatigue. It is here 
most enjoyable! E. and E. have arranged everything in 
perfection. Else von Arnim is lovely ; the Prince and Prin- 
cess of Wied most amiable; the brother of the Princess, 
Prince Nicholas of Nassau, is the handsomest prince I 
have seen. What luxury, in this security, not to be inter- 


182 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 851 


rupted! You are wanting to us—but we are glad of the 
reason why... . 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 
[ Translation. } lst November, 1851. 


IT am decidedly against your being modelled into a Govern- 
ment official. In the future condition of things, a young man 
of ability must only enter the public service when he is in- 
dependent, and can resign when he sees cause. The bureau- 
cracy of the Prussian State will be in future looked upon 
as servitude; wherefore, then, should you not strive to be 
first a free man, and then a candidate for office? The case 
may be different with philologers, theologians, judges, and 
luminaries of science. 

23rd December.—Louis Napoleon asserts, that he, as well 
as the first Napoleon, desires liberty in legality. But of 
what does his system consist? Solely of rule from above, 
without any degree of spontaneous activity below: The Na- 
poleonic system is more d@spotic than that of Nero. The 
modern police centralisation is a machine of oppression, un- 
known to the ancients, from which the Restoration and 
Louis Philippe had also to suffer, through their own fault. 
The parliamentary system, without municipal and provincial 
freedom, is an absurdity. 

12th February.—Beware of separating politics from right 
and rectitude !—not because ‘honesty is the best policy’ 
(which may be very falsely interpreted), but because poli- 
tical action rightly signifies nothing but the application of 
moral reason to public concerns and relations. 


Zit, 60] CORRESPONDENCE WITH STOCKMAR. 183 


CHAPTER XV. 
CORRESPONDENCE. 


PROSPECTS OF GERMANY—‘ HIPPOLYTUS ’"—PROTOCOL OF 8TH MAY, 1852— 
COUNT USEDOM’S NARRATIVE—VISIT TO GLASGOW—INVERARY—AFFAIR 
OF NEUFCHATEL—THE MOSAIC BOOKS—-MAZZINI—~DESPONDING VIEWS 
OF GERMANY—FUNERAL OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON—LETTER ON 
RELIGIOUS OPINIONS—LORD DERBY’S FIRST ADMINISTRATION — THE 
FRENCH EMPIRE—— CHANGE OF MINISTRY—EDINBURGH LIPLOMA — 
CRYSTAL PALACE—COLOGNE SINGERS~-NAVAL REVIEW—DEDICATION OF 
‘ HIPPOLYTUS '—-THEOLOGICAL CONFERENCES AT BERLIN—POLICY OF 
RUSSIA—-MENACE OF WAR. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockinvar. 


[Translation. ] London: New Year, 1852. 


Joy and well-being in the great and threatening year 1852, 
be to my dear friend Stockmar! shall be my first greeting 
in the ‘sacred hour of prime.’ I believe in God and in Ger- 
many, and then also in the vital powers of the principles of 
the English Constitution ; and nobody rejoices more than I 
do in the grand and high reality (single in its kind, however, 
since King William of Orange) of the Royal Pair on the 
throne of Great Britain. -If England and Germany remain 
united, what can the power of evil effect? You and I feel 
alike in protesting against the principle of death in preetorian 
imperialism, and in democratic police centralisation. And, 
lastly, we are agreed in the resolve to exert all the strength 
that is in us, to the end that neither superstition nor in- 
fidelity, neither priestcraft nor atheism, shall rule over the 
people. 

That for this purpose life from above may be granted by 


184 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


guidance of which the iron rule of the dark despot, Self,* 
may be broken through, and the reality of freedom evolved, 
—and, besides, that we and all who are dear and precious to 
us may be preserved in health,—is the wish uttered, in 
fulness of heart, to a dear friend, by 

BUNSEN. 


To the Same. 
{ Translation. | Sunday morning: 18th January, 1852. 


As I was on the way to your door in the Palace yester- 
day morning, I saw the Prince hastening in the same direc- 
tion, and therefore 1 withdrew without having told you how 
much the living with you in these latter days has refreshed 
me. You will feel that, when you consider that I am under 
no illusion as tothe condition of things at Berlin, and in the 
whole of Europe: of which you will be yet more aware when 
you read what the spirit has moved me to say as to the con- 
fusion and destitution of the spiritual condition in the whole 
of Europe. It was with a solemn consciousness that I paced 
up and down, before breakfast (at Windsor Castle), in the 
fine corridor, and beheld thé sunshine with the clearest blue 
sky above the towers and turrets: meditating upon the happi- 
ness that dwells within those walls, founded in reason and in- 
tegrity and love—a pattern of the well-ordered and inwardly 
vigorous and flourishing life that spreads all around, even to 
the extremities of the great island. And further off did I 
hear the roaring of the storm that sweeps now over the Con- 
tinent, and threatens our ever-beloved fatherland. And in 
that fatherland dwells also a noble people, a great people, 
fall of grand recollections and of the germs of future life— 
and a King, whose energies are so high and noble :—and yet 
all causes are dragging us within the compass of the whirl- 
wind of confusion and destruction! A blessing upon those 
walls, and the life within and around them. It is a conso- 


* ‘Das Ich, der dunkele Despot.’ See Riickert’s translation of King 
Jelai-ed-Din Rumi's lines. 


Ex. 60] CORRESPONDENCE WITH STOCKMAR. 185 


lation that such a spot should exist on earth; and I am 
thankful to have seen it, and for all the goodness and kind- 
ness I have there experienced. 


To the Same. 
[Translation. ] 20th January, 1852. 


.... & related to him, that when he was envoy at 
Vienna, Schwarzenberg sent for him one day, and said— 
‘The President offers, through Persigny (in exchange for 
the Rhine frontier and Belgium)—to Prussia, Hanover and 
Oldenburg ; to Austria, Moldavia and Wallachia ; to Russia, 
Constantinople.’ The Emperor Nicholas said the same to 
Lamoriciere. They both shrugged their shoulders. 

The younger Jerome communicated the following words 
of the President addressed to himself:—‘La chute de 
Palmerston est le coup le plus grave que j’aie recu : c’était 
le seul ami sincére que j’avais: tant qu’il était Ministre, 
Angleterre n’avait point d’alliés.’ 

Friday, 23rd January.—I have read, and considered, the 
highly instructive picture of that journey of May, 1851: 
and my result is :— 

Many are the rogues ; 


Few the men of honour; 
And prophets there are none. 


It is a comfort to think that an immoral and untrue 
nation may be yet worse off than one believing in truth and 
moral responsibility. We possess, indeed, no saving states- 
men, but we have prophets: therefore, we have a future in 
store. 


Bunsen to Archdeacon Hare. 
Hatchford : 22nd March, 1852. 

. . . Lam afraid that, when you come to see the Index 
of my ‘ Hippolytus,’ you will say, with a smile, that I have 
crammed into it an Universal and Church History, cum qui- 
busdam aliis. Still you will find, that I have done justice 


186 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


to the title within the smallest compass possible. When 
I come to the review of 1500 years’ Constitution of the 
Church, I resisted the temptation, or rather the claim of 
the subject, and entered not into what has passed between 
Hippolytus and our modern times. But when I attempted 
to slur over in a similar manner the 1500 years between 
the Christian sacrifice of believers at Rome, under Severus 
and Alexander, and our poor Ecclesia pressa in that same 
‘faithful city’ on the Capitol when I was living there, sub 
Pio, Leone, et Gregorio, the spirit stood in the way, and 
stopped me. Thus I have gone patiently through old 
papers and still older thoughts (from 1817 to 1840), and 
have given documents and results of the Greek, Gallican, 
African, and Roman Churches, and placed your own History 
of the Sacrifice from 1549 to 1764 (Scotch Communion 
Service) in the frame of Universal History, with chapter and 
verse, and all that in eighty pages and thirty notes... . 


On the 8th May, 1852, the fatal Protocol was 
signed, authorising a chagge in the law of succession 
to the Duchies of Schleswig and Holstein; against 
which Bunsen had constantly protested, and to which 
at last he affixed his signature, not, however, till he 
had received the King’s express command to do so. 
That it would have been more in character for Bun- 
sen to have resigned his post, and retired altogether 
from public life, instead of submitting to become the 
instrument of an act of which he felt the injustice 
and anticipated the danger, became clear even to his 
own family, and may be conjectured to have been so 
to himself, when the transactions had been viewed 
from a distance of time. But this is only uttered as 
conjecture, for a question on the subject would have 
seemed to imply reproach, and therefore no inquiry 


ZEr. 60] COUNT USEDOM’S NARRATIVE. 187 


was addressed to him; the less so, as he always pur- 
posed to write himself the history of his official life, 
and had promised to begin with the latter portion, 
and proceed backwards. As an authentic statement 
of particulars, a letter from Count Usedom shall be 
transcribed, as coming from a person most thoroughly 
acquainted with the entire subject, and who knew 
and comprehended the mind and character of Bun- 
sen, as could only be the case with a friend of many 
years’ standing, with a man of his intelligence and 
candour. 
Count Usedom to George von Bunsen 
{ Translation. | Turin: 23rd August, 1864. 

My pear Grorae Bunsen,—You wish to know what my 
recollection is of the part taken by your father in the 
London Treaty of May 1852, and of the negotiations which 
preceded its signature. To do justice to his memory in 
this matter is a duty imposed upon me by a friendship of 
many years’ standing, with which Bunsen honoured me: 
but, separated as I am from my papers, and relying there- 
fore on my memory alone, | shall perhaps but imperfectly 
perform this duty. 

Your letter to the ‘Times’ of the 18th July already 
raises the main question,—I mean Mr. Layard’s assertion 
of the existence of a Berlin Protocol of 4th July, 1850, and 
of a secret article in which Prussia promised to support the 
Danish wishes with respect to an alteration in the Law of 
Succession in the Duchies. You have pointed out how 
improbable such a secret promise on the part of Prussia 
must appear; and I shall now offer a few additional proofs 
in support of your assertion. 

First of all, two days before that date—that is, 2nd July, 


* Published in the ‘ Times’ of 1st September, 1864. The original ap- 
peared in the ‘ Kolnische Zeitung. . 


188 | MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


1850—the Peace of Berlin had been signed, by order of the 
King, and with the entire concurrence of Schleinitz and the 
whole Cabinet,—a treaty, as you may remember, negotiated 
and concluded by myself. In it the status quo ante bellum 
was rigidly upheld by Germany. Moreover, a memoir, 
which I delivered at the time of signature, expressly de- 
clared that term to signify the legal status, as created by 
the decree of the Federal Diet, of September 16, 1846. 
Now this decree had, in opposition to the Letters Patent of 
King Christian VIII., secured the entire ancient State 
rights of Schleswig-Holstein, and especially as regards 
the succession to its sovereignty, and Denmark was made 
at the time to acknowledge those rnghts. To promise 
an alteration would have contradicted and stultified this 
memoir ; and who can suppose such a change of views to 
have taken place within the space of two days P 

It is true that the Treaty of Peace, dated 2nd July, 1850, 
was accompanied by an executive Protocol, and also by a 
so-called ‘ secret article,’ in which Prussia promised to take 
part in future negotiations «pon the question of succession 
in Schleswig-Holstein ;—but this was all. Attempts have 
been made to interpret this article as a promise on the part 
of Prussia to assist in altering that succession in a Danish 
sense, the more so as such an assistance was given two 
years later; but, in reality, the meaning was exactly the 
reverse. The Danish Plenipotentiaries certainly had at the 
beginning of the Conferences proposed a wording which 
would have stipulated for such a promise on the part of 
Prussia. This being in contradiction to our preserving 
umtact the German and Schleswig-Holstein claim to the status 
of 1846, the Danish proposal met with a refusal, and the 
message was rescinded. The article as finally agreed to was 
quite unobjectionable : for, with or without it, Prussia, as a 
great Power, could never have stood aloof from European 
deliberations such as those, and I repeat nothing was deter- 
mined as to the tendency of her participation in them. 


ZEr. 60] COUNT USEDOM’S NARRATIVE. 189 


After this authentic statement, the only interpretation to be 
given to that secret article would be this—that Prussia 
would not side with Denmark in the coming conferences— 
that is, not support the Danish scheme of succession. I have 
never heard of any secret article but this. 

On the contrary, I am convinced that Prussia considered 
herself perfectly free as regards the question of succession 
during the first months of the ensuing year. The following 
circumstance (to which I should not refer were it not already 
well known) may serve as a proof. In February 1851, 
Count Sponneck brought to Berlin the Danish proposals re- 
garding the succession, still framed in rather general terms. 
His late Majesty of Prussia, of his own accord, but officially, 
demanded my opinion upon them. Besides giving this, I 
ventured to address a private letter to the King, which has 
since, in a manner unknown to me, found its way into pub- 
licity. It went to show, that the so-called integrity of 
Denmark was as yet neither a right nor a fact, but merely 
@ wish, which Prussia had no interest in fulfilling. Now, if 
Mr. Layard were right in asserting that Prussia had already 
secretly bound herself, how could the King of Prussia have 
demanded an opinion upon a subject which was settled 
already eight months before ? 

There would be no motive for saying a word with re- 
ference to the observations of Mr. Layard, if there were 
nothing further to point out in them but a slight error in 
the date and meaning of the secret article really extant, for 
a British Under-Secretary of State has more to do than to 
learn by heart dates and details fourteen years old. But 
Mr. Layard told his ‘ curious secret history ’ for the express 
purpose of explaining Prussia’s supposed obligations from 
a Protocol of 4th July, 1850. If this is allowed to stand, 
the charge against Prussia as having played a double game, 
and a corresponding charge against your father, would still 
remain in force. But we onght to know this ‘history ’ to 
be genuine before we can draw conclusions fromit. Until 


190 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


the above counter-proofs are shaken, it may be considered 
as not belonging to history, but as a piquant myth, one of 
those calligraphic flourishes, not rare in politics, which 
overlay and spoil ‘ Clio’s neat handwriting.’ 

You are aware that many adversaries of the London 
Treaty who were friends of your father, would have pre- 
ferred not seeing his name appended to a document to which 
his approval was wanting. It is said that he ought rather 
to have left the service, or have substituted a chargé 
d’affaires ad hoc. But, in 1852, the resolution of Prussia 
being unalterably fixed, could anybody seriously wish a 
statesman of his calibre to quit the service of his country on 
such a ground as this? As for a substitution of a chargé 
d’affaires, such a mode has always appeared to me a poor sub- 
terfuge, for, according to the traditions of every Govern- 
ment, a plenipotentiary who has unflinchingly and for years 
declared his own separate convictions will be considered to 
have fulfilled his duty. In the end the command of his 
Cabinet will be paramount, It is then a question not of 
opinion, but of service. * 

But what is of more importance to me than these con- 
siderations, a saying of your father’s came to my knowledge 
during those days of 1852, which I have reason to believe to 
be authentic. It was to this effect, ‘That he would affix his 
signature in order not to render still more heavy the sacri- 
fice which the King, his master, had to make. There was 
in Frederick William IV., and forming one of his chief 
characteristics, an unchangeable human benevolence, and a 
genuine sympathy of heart. As a politician, the King in 
1852 delivered up the Duchies to their fate: humanly, this 
resolve cost him a hard struggle; for Idoubt His Majesty’s 
having trusted the well-meant prediction of a Dane who was 
plenipotentiary in 1850, to the effect that ‘the Danish re- 
storation would be the omnis of areign of love.’ Bunsen, 
by withholding the signature from the treaty, might have 
offered a specious satisfaction to his private feelings. 


ZET. 60] COUNT USEDOM’S NARRATIVE. a9l 


Viewed in its relation to the King’s act, it would still have 
been but a demonstration and a reproof. Who would blame 
him for abstaining ? 

In your father’s judgment (this I can testify), the London 
Treaty, whether signed by him or not, would but have re- 
mained what it ever was, a ‘ Pragmatic Sanction,’ raised up 
artificially by parties unconcerned in the matter, against 
the rights, the interests, and the wishes of those really con- 
cerned—in short, against the nature of things. To render 
such an attempt possible, that powerful bias was necessary 
which then predominated in the Cabinets of Europe, and 
which was turned to a most favourable issue by Danish skill 
—an issue which was as unwisely made use of in the years 
that followed, as it had been skilfully gained. Few people 
can now imagine what evil times those were for the Duchies 
and their friends. So late even as 1860, when in conse- 
quence of the Crimean and Italian wars much was changed 
in European, politics, every mention of German rights in 
regard to Schleswig was sure to call forth a general outcry 
of indignation against the disturbers of peace. 

It is to be regretted that Bunsen did not live to see the 
year 1864, which has so signally verified his view of the 
London Treaty. This ‘Pragmatic Sanction,’ erected, like 
the Ice Palace on the Neva, in contempt of the laws of 
nature, has melted away before the irresistible force of 
things as they are. The Duchies, delivered at last from 
their long struggle for existence, will now be permitted to 
turn to higher things. To behold such a result would have 
been a joy of joys to your father. 

Iam, &c. UsEpom. 


The retrospect of the summer months of 1852 pre- 
sents a wilderness of objects and of interests of the 
most varied kinds, from which the numerous family 
broke away in various divisions and directions in 
August. Bunsen himself, with his wife and youngest 


192 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1852 


daughter, paid a visit of three days to Sir Harry and 
Lady Verney, at Claydon, from whence he proceeded 
to his eldest son at Lilleshall, in Shropshire, and went 
on with his youngest (Theodore) to the Duke and 
Duchess of Argyll, at Inverary, spending a day on 
the road at Sir Archibald Alison’s, Possil House, near 
Glasgow. At Inverary the kindness of the Duke and 
Duchess, and the manifold interests surrounding them 
might well have tempted him to a longer stay; but 
one of Bunsen’s peculiarities, constantly increasing 
upon him every year, was that of being restless when 
absent from his own room, his own writing-place, and, 
particularly, from the living accompaniments of home; 
so that he never without resistance was detained away 
from them, even in the most attractive society. This 
will account for the small amount of time spent in 
country visits during his twelve years and a half in 
England, where so muclagreeable hospitality always 
awaited his acceptance. On the present occasion he 
was fairly shut out of his own abode, and thus made 
time for a short visit to Lord Ellesmere at Worsley, 
and to the Bishop of Manchester, on returning south 
to his son’s dwelling at Lilleshall, where he rejoined 
his wife and youngest daughter, and was met by 
Lepsius ; so that he had a congenial group around him 
for the celebration cf his birthday, the 25th August. 
| Bunsen to Inicke. | 
{ Translation. ] Lilleshall: 13th August, 1852. 

I have just completed ‘ Hippolytus und seine Zeit,’ after 
thirteen months’ hard work, both in English and in German. 
To the German edition I have prefixed a Preface, armed at 
all points, for the Governments and the nation. One of my 
practical objects was, and is, to stir up the English out of 


ET. 60] COMPLETION OF ‘HIPPOLYTUS,’ 193 


their spiritual slumber and materialistic tendencies, before 
the great conflict of minds, and perhaps of nations begins ; 
and so far my book (‘Hippolytus’) is a contest for Germany, 
—for our only indestructible and peculiar property, I mean 
inward religious instinct and freedom of spirit. My English 
friends were at first alarmed on my account, at the matter 
I addressed to their countrymen: but I know the English 
nation better than they do, and have more Christian courage, 
because my convictions are stronger than theirs. When, 
after a life of serious enquiry, one has reached one’s sixtieth 
year, one must have attained to convictions instead of 
opinions, and also to the courage necessary for expressing 
them; even to the pretension of being wiser than the ‘raw 
recruits’ of the rising generation. In my ‘Life of Jesus,’ I 
consider His single personality as purely and truly Divine, 
because purely and truly human in appearance, in earthly 
reality: With us, the new generation is partly infidel, partly 
bigoted. There is a want of the courage aud enthusiasm 
necessary for carrying out the great task of our age... . 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


Tnverary Castle: early on Tuesday, 17th August.—Here 
T am, having had a rainy voyage, after which a carriage at 
the waiting-place brought me to the Castle, where the Duke 
and. Duchess received me with that hearty friendship which 
they have so invariably shown me. After an hour the 
weather cleared, and the open carriage was ordered for a 
drive in the indescribably beautiful Glenary, the mountain 
stream Ary flowing through it, and giving name to the 
residence (mouth of the Ary) : it has many waterfalls, one 
considerable, and very picturesque. On our return the 
Duke conducted me to the beautiful room intended for me, 
next the reception-room of the Duchess, where I am lodged 
as in a royal residence, with the fine arm of the sea, and the 
nobly wooded hills before me. At seven o’clock the pibroch 
greeted me before my window (a summons to dinner), which 
sounds very much better here than in a London Palace! ... 

VOL. II. O 


194 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


To the Same. 
London: Ist September, 1852. 


I can well feel with you the pain of revisiting places 
hallowed by the presence of your incomparable mother, for 
the first time since her death. Sheis in my thoughts on 
the occasion of every event in our family, more particularly 
when anything joyous renews the desire of communicating 
with her ready sympathy. Who ever felt with us as she 
did ? with what tenderness did she not follow us through 
every change and variety of life,—she, to whom our union 
was, humanly speaking, owing! So then, as we have been 
allowed the rare happiness of living for a quarter of a cen- 
tury in the enjoyment of her love and of her loveliness, let 
us, beloved, continue in that same consciousness to the end 
of our term of life. 

I send a letter from a remarkable American, Rev. Dr. H., 
of Mobile, in Alabama; who has in a learned work main- 
tained the literal, historical exactness of the book of Gene- 
sis, but, having finished and published it, and afterwards 
studying books of research and criticism, such as mine and 
Lepsius’s, he declared to his congregation (Presbyterian) 
that he felt compelled to examine personally our doubts and 
ourselves, and Hgypt. Upon which, they granted him leave 
of absence, and also money for his travelling expenses. The 
first of his wishes, a personal conference with me and 
Lepsius, he has at once obtained. I invited him, and read 
to him the discourse of ‘Hippolytus’ upon inspiration ; 
whereupon he said, ‘The whole must be literally true, or I 
can believe nothing.’ Then the spirit came over me to say 
to him, that I felt him to be a Christian brother in my very 
heart: but, according to his system, he was an enemy and 
not a friend of Moses—a Mahomedan, or a Rabbi—and 
‘that he would only find peace and faith again, by following 
out the system of research which with Germans had pro- 
ceeded from faith, from the beliefin Christianity as a reality 


ET. 61] TENDENCY OF JUDAIC BELIEF. 195 


of truth, and therefore capable of making head against the 
power of doubt anderror. ‘I must see myself,’ he replied ,; 
‘pray send me the book of “‘ Hippolytus’’ to the Pyramids, 
whither Iam going. If J am in the wrong, I give up my 
place. What should I preach to my people? May God 
help me!’ I cannot express how deeply I was affected by 
this man’s expressions. LL. was apprehensive, that if com- 
pelled to give up his Judaic belief, he would lose his senses. 
But I am of opinion that an Anglo-American, once having 
entered upon research, will go through with it, and be saved ; 
otherwise, indeed, his brains will turn: for that view of 
things (the Judaic) tends to madness. .. . 


Contemporary Notices from Diaries. 
3lst October, 1852. 

The conversation at dinner was most interesting; 1t turned 
on the years 1813-15, in the last of which years my father 
was at Berlin for the first time. It was striking to witness 
the almost Spartan simplicity of life at Court and in the 
highest society, which contrasted greatly with the luxury 
which he observed on returning after twelve years to Berlin. 
Whilst in the interval at Rome he had been accustomed to 
speak, with Niebuhr and the Germans there, the language 
of 1818-15, he found in Germany the tone altogether 
changed, and he seemed to be speaking in an unknown 
tongue. The table of the King (Frederick Wilham ITI.) 
was the only one that retained its plainness, and when, on 
occasion. of some royal visitor, a grander dinner had been 
prepared, the King commented upon it as ‘fit for a Privy 
Councillor.’ .. . | 

Thursday, 11th November.—At breakfast, my father took 
occasion of the mention of a meeting last night, at which 
Kossuth and Mazzini had spoken, to say that no one had so 
much endangered the cause of Constitutional Government 
in Italy by his fanaticism as Mazzini had done—whom he 


yet believed to be honest, though too much blinded to per- 
| 02 


196 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


ceive the consequences which must necessarily flow from his 
acts. The murder of Rossi, for instance, which was perpe- 
trated by Mazzini’s friends, was as tragical an event, under 
its peculiar circumstances, as that of Julius Cesar. But yet 
Mazzini had (he said) more head and better practical quali- 
ties than Kossuth, who was a mere talker, though an ex- 
traordinarily-gifted one. My father went on in a very serious 
tone of contemplation; he had often felt, but not trusted 
himself to pronounce, his bitter conviction, that our time 
would turn out to be one of those periods in history which 
seem to lie under a curse, which can be traced in many in- 
stances in past ages, when every effort after truth among 
nations, and after a higher life nationally, is blighted, and 
when it requires a firm faith to believe that out of such a 
hopeless state, the good, the right, and the true can ever 
come out victorious. As to Germany, he said it was well, 
and a blessing, that the present generation did and could 
still hope; but a man who had lived sixty years could only 
despair—if there was hope only for this world. The cause 
of Germany he believed naw to be lost for many generations 
to come ; in 1848 it was not yet lost—but it was lost in March 
1849, by the manner in which the imperial crown was 
offered to Frederick William IV., and the manner in which 
he refused it, instead of accepting it upon his own conditions. 
For the present, the only course for a lover of his country to 
pursue was to protect and hold fast what Prussia has; and in 
one way Prussia was certainly better off than before, as she 
possesses a Constitutional Government to which the King 
has sworn—and he will keep his oath—he and his successors 
being honest men... . 


Bunsen to a Lady. 
London: 18th November, 1852. 
You poured out to me yesterday in a solemn moment the 
very depth of your Christian heart, and gave me thus a proof 
of affection and confidence, deeply affecting to me. 
You feel the wrath of God, the All Just, more than the 


ZEr. 61] TO A LADY ON HER RELIGIOUS CONVICTIONS. #97 


love of God; and, if I understand you rightly, that is a con- 
sequence of the natural re-action of your heart and your 
reason against the one-sided formularies of theology: a 
re-action through which we, the free children of our time, 
are all bound to pass. You cannot find satisfaction either 
in the Calvinistic or the Evangelical formulary for the doc- 
trine of Justification and Reconciliation: your conscience 
tells you (as every other Christian) of sin, and of the union 
with God interrupted through sin; and your reason, in ter- 
ror, draws the conclusion, that every sin goes on in endless 
succession producing evil (a concatenation which you can 
feel no right to suppose broken off), and calling for punish- 
ment from the eternal justice of God,—as you qualify the 
moral order of the universe; and with this conception you 
connect the idea (perhaps without having made it quite clear 
to yourself’) that this punishment, be it now or hereafter, in 
this or in another life, will prove an expiation of the sin. 
Your mind receives not the satisfaction of Christ, which, in 
the form in which it has been presented to you, is made re- 
pugnant to your reason. 

I beg you not to be offended if I have misunderstood you ; 
but this appears to me the unavoidable logical consequence 
of your communication to me of yesterday. 

My conviction is, that faith in Christ is essentially no 
other than the solution of this enigma which has oppressed 
the heart of humanity for so many thousand years. The 
mere looking up to Christ, as pattern and prototype, is as far 
from being Christianity as even Religion, in any degree— 
any more than gazing out of the swamp into which one has 
fallen, up towards another standing safe and high on the 
bank, can prove the means of being drawn out of the swamp ; 
and the attempt, in the strength of Self (that is, of the crea- 
ture contemplating itself apart from God), to escape out of 
the swamp, is not in the slightest degree less irrational than 
the well-known assertion of Miinchausen, that in a similar 
condition he pulled himself out by grasping his own pigtail. 

But that is not your religion: you believe in Christ, you 


198 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1852 


lead a life of brotherly love for the brethren of Christ, and 
in His name; but the bridge which must be built between 
your conscience and the decisions of reason as to the eternal 
consequences of evil, and the Redeemer, you cannot with 
your own reason construct. In other words, you cannot feel 
that in that consciousness of sin, and the self-condemnation 
therein comprehended, the transfusion of faith and penitence, 
lies the reality of redemption: which is the solution of the 
enigma, the being loosened from the curse of the law (that 
is, of conscience) : from the ‘illusion of sin,’ as Novalis says. 
It is as if one in immediate danger of suffocation should 
wake up in the free air of Heaven, and yet doubt the saving 
quality of the atmosphere by which he is renovated, because 
he can neither see nor grasp it. 

Into this spiritual air of heaven has Jesus brought us, not 
only by His having declared God as Eternal love, but essen- 
tially yet more as having proved the fact of redemption by 
His perfect and all-sufficient self-sacrifice, completed for the 
entire human race. Nothing is thereby altered in God’s 
eternal nature, for that ig love; but in our consciousness of 
Him, as the centre of our life, the end and object, fraught 
with blessing, of all longing, as Him ‘in whom we live, and 
move, and have our being.’ 

This consciousness and that of our moral responsibility 
make out, whether evangelically or plilosophically con- 
sidered, the eternal, universal, and one only safe foundation 
of the doctrine of justification, as well as that of our eternal 
blessedness, of eternal life (John xvu. 3), 1m which we may 
live, even now, if we do not exclude ourselves. But the way 
thither lies in eating the body and drinking the blood of 
Christ (John vi.),—that is, in merging our own selfishness 
in a course of life, adopting and taking in His Divine self- 
devotedness in love to the brethren, in progressive self-re- 
nunciation. | 

-Tell me, whether I have misunderstood you, or whether 
you agree with me. Faithfully yours, BUNSEN. 


JET. 61] MONTALEMBERT’S BOOK. 199 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
[Translation. | Wednesday, 15th December, 1852. 


I hope to receive a word from you on the subject of the 
idea of an Anglo-Prussian alliance with Belgium and Hol- 
land. My view of the matter is,—let Prussia form its 
alliance with those two Powers, after having by wise modera- 
tion, and by the Customs Union (Zollverein), regained its 
position in Germany: and then, not before, let the question 
be asked of England. Allora sara altra cosa ! 

I send you a little excursion into the domain of the time 
between 1813 and 1839, on the occasion of a new edition of 
Niebuhr’s ‘Life and Letters.’ 


To the Same. 
(Translation. | London: 17th January, 1853. 

With many thanks I return to you Montalembert’s book. 
It is very eloquent, but yet the most embarrassed work of 
an embarrassed man. The key to it lies in chapters six 
and seven, and what follows. The heart of the mystery 
is his vexation that his own clergy have so shamelessly 
adhered to the despotism which he detests, which has 
crushed him, and scoffs at him. But so it is; no love of 
freedom without love of the fatherland, and the Catholic 
clergy bas no fatherland, first because it can have no le- 
gitimate offspring, but also because the rights of all other 
classes, all fellow-citizens, become obnoxious as such to 
it, or to its master the Pope, as soon as the practice of 
thinking gains a head. 

The first chapters are full of untruths: I had begun to 
mark them with a pencil, but the number is too great. 


Bunsen to Agricola (President of the Consistory of Gotha). 
{Translation. | London: 3rd Murch, 1853. 
I have interred Germany, as in Good Friday’s tomb— 
sure in hope of that Easter morning of resurrection, which, 
however, I shall not see. 


200 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1853 


: To a Son. 
[Translation. | 22nd March, 1853. 
The whole German system of study is irrational, because 
no bridge is contrived between theory and practice; and 
antiquarian research in separate branches of knowledge is 
substituted for the universal interests of humanity. 


Extracts from Diaries. 

Saturday, 18th June—My father having been invited 
to see the Crystal Palace in its still unfinished state, 
we packed ourselves a carriage full to accompany him. 
After passing Dulwich the country prospect became charm- 
ing, and soon we perceived the new building on a wooded 
height. Mr. Phillips, Mr. Layard, and Mr. Owen Jones 
guided us and a large party over this wonderful construc- 
tion, which promises to realise Aladdin’s Palave. From 
the galleries the view is beautiful, and was evidently en- 
joyed by the eighty singers from Cologne, who had been 
brought over by Mr. Mitchell. By degrees all visitors had 
collected (400 or 500) in a comparatively small corner of 
the galleries, when suddenly the eighty began to sing; 
and grandly did their voices sound, electrifying the work- 
people of all tongues and nations, who ceased hammering, 
and joined in a loud hurrah as soon as the first song ended. 
After the second song, the dinner bell summoned the 
thousands from their various places of work, and they were 
like a swarm of bees passing along all ladders and stairs 
and corridors; when the eighty sounded forth ‘God save 
the Queen!’ each and all remained standing, hat in hand, on 
whatever spot they had reached, till at the end they burst 
into another loud hurrah! It was a heart-stirring scene... . 

Wednesday, 6th July.—My father read at breakfast the 
Emperor Nicholas’s manifesto, which accuses the Porte of 
violation of faith, and declares a crusade and holy war! 
My father said, even the aggression of Napoleon against 
Spain was hardly so devoid of pretext as this act, which 


MOSUL—NINEVEH. 20] 


he considered to be a wanton rushing upon destruc$ion on 
the part of the Emperor. When my father went into his 
hbrary with me after breakfast, he could not refrain from 
beginning over again about this extraordinary event, of 
which he spoke with great emotion, as though he felt woes 
to be at hand... . 

 Phursday, 21st July—Mr. Layard at breakfast, with 
Captain Jones, who has been twenty-six years in the East, 
and sixteen of them in Mesopotamia. He brought with 
him plans made by himself of Mosul, and the site of 
Nineveh, where he has measured the ground almost by 
inches, and felt so perfectly at home, that in the great 
wilderness of London he is quite strange and solitary. 
His plans and explanations enable one to form a conception 
of these ancient cities, which was difficult so long as one 
remained confounded by the modern notion of a town as 
consisting of a heap of stones, more or less well arranged, 
with street crammed close to street, and scarcely room for 
the air to circulate, far less for fields, trees, and cultivation. 
It is plain that we are to think of Nineveh, Babylon, 
EKcbatana, as inclosures, with walls well fortified and capable 
of defence, including a space more like a small province 
than a town, in which herds of cattle and flocks of sheep 
could be contained and fed, in which were trees for shade, 
and space for cultivation; the buildings being in groups, 
well separated, as the ruins testify. The fortified inclosure 
was at the least a security against the incursions of nomad 
tribes, such as will not have failed to harass even the 
greatest empires of antiquity, until the Romans interposed 
their thorough-going system of absolute rule... . 


Bunsen to his Wife. (In London.) 
Bedford Hotel, Bighton: 24th July, 1853. 


I arrived safely, met Ernest at the station, and had a 
good walk with him and a short drive, before we entered 
these doors. I went early to bed, it being bitterly cold,— 


202 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [£td3 


on account, of course, of the dog days. This morning I 
drank in as much sea air as my lungs could receive. After 
breakfast set to work, and so successfully that I finished 
the whole article of Marcion to my satisfaction, before 
dinner. It is now near seven, and I have done all that I 
required cf myself, and sit down to prepare Justin Martyr 
with Hermasand the Ebionites in the foreground of the pic- 
ture. ‘Lucsday, I hope to do Polycarp, and then I have only 
to jump cvcr Irenzus to reach my own dear Hippolytus. 

La campagna e la quiete—that is the main thing, but 
the sea-air is also something. The dear children bear me 
about on their hands. 

You will be surprised at all that I have accomplished 
here. ... 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Llanover.) 
London: 10th October, 1853. 


[Bunsen had been urgently invited to be present at the 
Cwmreiggyddion, and had consented to look over the prize 
essays and give his award.) 

I cannot come—war has been eventually announced to 
Russia if she does not say formally what she wanted the 
other Powers to say—that is, the contrary of what she has 
said. J have conferences daily—telegrams and despatches 
twice! My award is being copied. 


Bunsen to Count Usedom. 
[Translation.] London : 8th December, 1853. 


First of all, as to my coming to Berlin. Iam in a course 
of regimen, with a view to becoming free from chronic suf- 
fering. JI am unequal to more than a very small amount of 
walking or other exercise, and yet exercise is an absolute 
condition of amendment. What here keeps me in tolerable 
health is, 1, regular diet : 2, frequent but short walks (on 
the terrace or adjoining park); and, 3, the mildness of 
the climate, which allows of these frequent daily walks. 


ZEr. 62] CLOSE OF THE YEAR 1853. 203 


For these rules of life, all things are here arranged. At 
Berlin, I could not lead the life I ought. Sir Henry 
Holland is of opinion, that by the month of April I may 
be better. 

In the second place, who should carry on the diplomatic 
relations? I see Clarendon almost daily ; he receives mein 
the early part of the morning in his own house. In the 
afternoon, I may read at the Foreign Office whatever I 
wish to see. With Aberdeen I have les petites entrées; also 
to Prince Albert when in London, regularly towards eleven 
o'clock in the morning, towards six in the afternoon, pri- 
vately, and between times by means of writing. I am in- 
formed of everything. Walewski, who is a power, com- 
municates with me personally with the greatest readiness ; 
so also Musurus and Buchanan. Only with Colloredo and 
Brunnow would a substitute do as well as myself, but an 
influence with the Cabinet and Ministry no one can obtain 
without length of time. I beheve that I possess all the in- 
fluence which, with our politics, is possible. 


Bunsen to Baron Stockmar. 
{Translation. | London: Sylvester evening, 1853. 


To you and yours be blessing, salvation, and happiness, 
in the approaching new year! ‘ Would he were here!’ 
is the close of Sir G. Cooper’s ‘letter enclosing that which 
I hereby forward. ‘Would he were here!’ resounds to me 
from all parts and various strata of the Palace. ‘ Would 
he were here !’ is daily in my heart, and often on my lips. 

The winter is, as to cold, that of 1812: will the spring 
turn out for Prussia and Germany that of 1813? I must 
hope so, since Pourtalés is come, who, as I neither cowld 
nor would go to Berlin, was, on my proposal, sent to me, 
and was a true Christmas present. At that earlier date, 
was a war of liberation : and now, what will it be ? Pour- 
talés is in the highest spirits, as well as Usedom. The for- 
ier will return to Berlin in a week. The Prince (Albert) 


204 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


sees me as often as I desire to confer with him: he is more 
energetic, but also more grave than ever. 

A destiny is in the course of evolution ; a fatality ripen- 
ing to its fulfilment. The wings of Nemesis are beating 
audibly: L’Hurope ne deviendra pas Cosaque. 

Aberdeen will not maintain himself much longer; it 1s 
his unpopularity which has made Palmerston the most 
powerful man in England, and the favourite of the people: 
he (Aberdeen) has learnt nothing since 1815 in foreign 
politics, except that he perceives, post factum, that he was 
in the wrong, because the world is no longer what in 1815 
it was made to be! God preserve our fatherland, the ever 
dear and great ! 


Extracts from Diaries (continued). 


lst January, 1854.—Before the close of the old year, we 
had already received the long-expected intelligence of the 
death of dear General Radowitz, on Christmas Day! We 
have the privilege of remembering many most interesting 
days during his stay with us three years ago, the impres- 
sion of which will not easily wear away. The conversation 
at breakfast turned upon Radowitz, of whom, bred up as he 
was at a Jesuit school, it might be said that his whole turn 
of mind was based upon what the head of a Jesuit school 
at Vienna had declared to my father to be the basis of their 
system of education—eligion (in their sense, i.e. the in- 
flexible binding rule) and Mathematics. . . . 

Sunday, 5th February.—My father said that the Emperor, 
when he was in England in 1844, already uttered the 
sentiments of which many versions have since been made:— 
‘Il y a dans mon Cabinet deux opinions sur la Turquie: 
Yune, qu’elle est mourante; l’autre, qu’elle est morte—la 
derniére est la mienne. I] serait ainsi bien que nous nous 
entendions sur Ja maniére de faire ses funérailles.’ 

Tuesday, 7th February.—At breakfast my father read Lord 
Clarendon’s declaration in the House last night, that negoti- 
ations were broken off and relations suspended with Russia. 


ZEr, 62] RECALL FROM ENGLAND. 205 


CHAPTER XVI. 


RECALL FROM LONDON—INDEPENDENCE. 


BUNSEN RECALLED FROM ENGLAND-——DEPARTURE FROM CARLTON TERRACE 
—-FAREWELL TO HIS FRIENDS——ESTABLISHES HIMSELF AND FAMILY AT 
CHARLOTTENBERG—CORRESPONDENCE FROM HEIDELBERG-—THE IMMACU- 
LATE CONCEPTION—STATE OF GERMANY—BIBLE WORK—DEATH OF ARCH- 
DEACON HARE, 


Extracts from Diaries (continued). 


On the 11th April, 1854, the first telegraphic announcement 
was made in the ‘ Times’ of my father’s being recalled from 
his post in London,—he himself not having received any 
notification of the fact, nor did he receive it officially for 
long after, although aware that the King had accepted his 
resignation, sent in the first week in April. The time of 
suspense and uncertainty was painful, but the kindly 
feeling towards my father and all of us, evinced in thou- 
sands of enquiries, notes, and letters of regret, when once 
the fact became known, was most gratifying. The feelings 
must be left out of the question with which we worked at 
despoiling our beautiful dwelling of the signs of our own 
especial life in it: yet when at last the great work was 
accomplished, it was with thankfulness that we left those 
desolate rooms, filled as they were with associations and 
recollections of an important period of life, abounding in joy 
and sorrow—and were glad to find a temporary home under 
the friendly roof of beloved ones in Abbey Lodge, Regent’s 
Park. 


206 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Contemporary Notice, by a Daughter-in-Law, in a Letter. 
23rd April, 1854. 


... The girls, no doubt, have written to you about their 
departure. The house to me never appeared more attractive 
than it did that afternoon, and it seemed hard to look on 
those beautiful rooms probably for the last time. But they 
seemed only quietly contented, and no one would have sus- 
pected the state of the case, except from my father’s words 
when I went to him in his library, when he embraced me 
tenderly, and said, ‘From this moment I feel that I belong 
to my children; from this moment I am my own master.’ 
He really has seemed to me a changed man the last week. 
What deeply interesting conversations he has had here with 
me, telling of his early life and strong governing impres- 
sions ! and how he has again and again retraced his stepsup 
to this point, telling me how he has often and often endea- 
voured to take the collar off, and give up public affairs, but 
never could do so before : and how, in 1849, he thought his 
way was clear, when ‘God threw him upon a bed of sick- 
ness, and again he had to resume his labours as the 
opportunity was past. And now this is the first time he 
could leave; and he added solemnly, ‘My whole life would 
have been a he to myselfif I did not run away the first mo- 
ment I could.’ They had hardly left the house before a 
letter from Prince Albert came. I will send you a copy of 
the translation of it to-day or to-morrow. 


Bunsen’s resignation of his post of honour and 
of labour in England, the cause, attendant circum- 
stances, and immediate occasion, form a wide subject, 
belonging not only to the political crisis of the 
moment, but to a previous condition of things, of 
long duration, such as can only be explained and 
placed in full light when the future historian shall 
be allowed the examination of, and the liberty of ex- 


Ex. 62] HIS RECALL FROM ENGLAND. 207 


tracting from, the vast amount of papers in his own 
handwriting, or written from his dictation, which 
exist in the Archives of the Prussian Government 
at Berlin, or in London. The hand which here 
attempts to preserve the reflection of his image, as 
it appears in his own utterance of thoughts and 
opinions to private friends, is wholly incompetent to 
undertake such a history of his entire political life as 
would prove an effectual defence and justification 
against many a bitter accusation; but if success is 
granted to the endeavour to show him such as they 
who best and most closely had contemplated him 
knew him to be, the result must be to prove that he 
was incapable of any intention or action inconsistent 
with his integrity and his devotedness to the good 
of his King and country, as he understood 1t. 

It is not for the writer of these lines to examine 
or determine where, and how far, Bunsen was en- 
tangled in errors of judgment; and therefore the 
question whether he would not have done better to 
resign his post previous to the signature of the Danish 
Protocol of London, in 1852, must be left, with many 
other questions, to the decision of others. That the 
resignation, at last tendered in April 1854, had not 
been much earlier determined upon, may be referred 
to the causes which made the final departure from 
England so indescribably painful. Nothing but the 
total impossibility of carrying on his diplomatic 
transactions with due regard to that unity of purpose 
and character essential to his conception of public 
duty could have brought him to the pitch of resolu- 
tion necessary for resigning, not indeed the show and 


208 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, — [1854 


importance of a high station (entailing labour and 

loss of time which were every year felt to be ,more 

oppressive), but the vivid succession of animated in- 

terests, moral, religious, political, intellectual, which 

made his daily existence one course of imbibing ideas, 

of taking in at will successive draughts of universal 
life, in nations or in nature, while resident on that 
spot of earth which he loved to call the world’s. 
metropolis. This universality of energy (all powers 

being with him ever living), and his inexhaustible 
stock of animal spirits, enabled him to meet the 
demands made upon him, by every variety of matter, 

to a degree which most persons would find it difficult 
to keep pace with, even in fancy; and the friction in 
every direction, which would have been wearing and 
overstraining to minds in general, furnished his with 
exactly the desired degree of stimulus, weariness 
never being the result of“any amount of mental exer- 
cise, but only the consequence of uncongenial or vex- 

atious occupation. Thus, for some time after his 
resignation had been sent in and accepted, he was far 
from having taken in the possibility or necessity of 
immediately withdrawing from the scene of a sojourn, 
in most respects so preferable to any other that could 
be imagined for him; and not till after he had fully 
considered the question of private life in Hngland, 
from every possible point of view, did his mind become 
resigned to the fact, that his immediate withdrawal 
from the scene of the activity of years was essential 
to complete his retirement from all connection with 
public affairs. The vision which had floated before 
him so long, of finally settling at Bonn, as Niebuhr 


Ja7T. 62] RESOLVES TO LEAVE ENGLAND. . 209 


had done, and, like him, by means of public lectures, 
acting. upon the rising generation of his country- 
men, might have seemed on the point of being realised ; 
but he desired to delay the actual fixing of his resi- 
dence in the Prussian dominions, until the influences 
at that time paramount at Court and in the Ministry 
should have somewhat changed in character. As he 
desired to live exclusively for his family, for literary 
research, and for contemplation, the prospect was 
galling to his feelings that, by living in Prussia, he 
would unavoidably be drawn into participation in the 
strife of political parties, which both his physical 
condition, and, still more, his personal relation to the 
King, seemed imperatively to forbid. Among Ger- 
man towns out of Prussia Heidelberg offered the 
cereatest amount of desirable circumstances, and was 
soon decided upon, after a transient longing after the 
shores of the Mediterranean, which caused Nice to be 
contemplated; but the idea was dismissed, as the 
neighbourhood of an University with its public 
library was an indispensable requisite in the choice of 
a place of abode. The resignation having been des- 
patched to Berlin in April, Bunsen and his wife went 
to spend the short pause, while awaiting the reply and 
acceptance, at High Wood, beyond Harrow,—with 
the faithful friend of many years, Lady Raffles, with 
her to reflect aloud, to look beyond, before, and around 
them, and in the beneficent stillness of the country 
and the spring, to collect fresh strength and spirit for 
days and weeks of trying transition. The royal license 
to depart having arrived, no longer delay was allowed 
to intervene but such as was indispensable for the last 
VOL. II. P 


210 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


arrangements. The painful resolution was made and 
executed, to part with multiplied memorials of past 
periods of animated existence, in the form of pictures, 
engravings, and other objects of art, and even with 
the greater portion of a library, more precious to 
Bunsen than all the rest. This he had at first de- 
termined to pack up and remove with him, until con- 
vinced on trial that the mass would be too great for 
any house that he would be likely in future to occupy, 
and a selection was made, which, however bulky, 
might well have been larger, since many works were 
subsequently required and purchased a second time. 
This difficulty once over, Bunsen was prevailed upon 
to leave the distasteful occupation of breaking up the 
complicated structure of domestic life which he and 
his family had enjoyed, to those whose labour and 
sense of repugnance was lessened and lightened by 
the consciousness that*he was spared all that he could 
be relieved from by accepting the kind hospitality of 
Mr. and Mrs. Wagner, at St. Leonard’s. ‘There, in 
the enjoyment of sea air and of the most soothing 
and gratifying attentions, he employed the leisure 
needed for the last finishing of various works, for 
which the printing press was, as it were, waiting. 
Extracts from a few letters will mark not only the 
individual occupations of the time, but also the 
fulness of vigour with which he had struggled, and 
gradually overcome, the trials of the crisis. He re- 
turned invigorated and refreshed to London, where 
the house of his son Ernest, in the Regent’s Park, 
afforded him a welcome and delightful abode during 
the short remaining time in which his presence was 


Zit. 62] PROPOSES TO SETTLE AT CHARLOTTENBERG. 211 


indispensable for consigning to the press his com- 
prehensive work, ‘ Christianity and Mankind,’ into 
which his second edition of ‘Hippolytus’ had imper- 
ceptibly grown. Mournful was the day of attending 
for the last time Divine worship at the German 
Church of the Savoy; after which, in the vestry, the 
venerable Steinkopf (fifty years officiating minister 
there) read an address of thanks for benefits received, 
which drew many a tear, the rather because it was 
not exaggerated, but abundantly deserved; for Bunsen 
had been indeed an effectual friend to the German 
inhabitants of London, collectively and individually. 
It would be a needless filling up of space to enumer- 
ate the persons, or the acts of kindness, which crowded 
round Bunsen, to deepen and strengthen the impres- 
sion of the sentiments of affection and approbation of 
his English friends; but the heart-warming effect, 
which was the object of such demonstration, was fully 
attained ; only the name of Samuel Gurney, as fore- 
most in kindly offices, and who lived less than three 
years after this, shall be uttered with the richly merited, 
‘Hail! and farewell !’ 

On the 10th June, Bunsen saw his wife and daugh- 
ters safe on board the steamer which conveyed them 
to Rotterdam, whence they pursued their way up 
the Rhine, to take possession of Charlottenberg, near 
Heidelberg, which had been sought out for them by 
their faithful friend Meyer, then a resident at Heidel- 
berg. The day of departure was that of the opening 
of the Crystal Palace at Sydenham, the gradual pro- 
gress of which they had watched during repeated 
visits ; but its completion coincided with a period to 

P 2 


912 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 11854 


them too solemn and mournful to admit of even the 
inclination to witness the celebration. The Steam 
Navigation Company would not accept payment for 
the transmission of the family and their bulky effects, 
nor would the porters of St. Katherine’s Docks allow 
of remuneration for the very considerable labour of 
conveying the latter on board, offering such labour as 
a token of much-prized respect. Bunsen remained 
with his son in the Regent’s Park as many days longer 
as were indispensable for delivering the whole of his 
work to the press. Friends continued to collect about 
him, and it was difficult to convince many of them 
that his remaining longer in England (at least for the 
period that might be required for complying with in- 
vitations to lengthened visits in the country) was for 
many reasons out of the question ; the principal rea- 
son always being that Bunsen could never be happy, 
for a continuance, but “in a home of his own; and 
after the breaking up of the home of years no time 
was to be lost in constructing another. At length the 
two busy and exciting weeks which formed the close 
of the important thirteen years of his life in England 
came to an end ; and the presence of his son George 
on his journey smoothed over the effort of his depar- 
ture. On the way up the Rhine the travellers stopped 
at Neu Wied, to visit the Prince and Princess of Wied, 
at their lovely country residence, Monrepos. They 
had but just returned themselves from Paris, where a 
residence of nearly a year had been blessed to them 
by the restoration of health to the Princess by the 
hands of Count Szapary. Bunsen was overpowered 
by paternal joy at the sight of his second daughter 


JET. 62] LETTER TO MRS. SCHWABE. 213 


Emilia, restored like the Princess to health and 
strength, by the same persevering endeavours, under 
the kind auspices of the Princess, who, in the begin- 
ning of the winter, had urged the having recourse to 
the same source of help that had, under the blessing 
of God, proved effectual in her own case. 


Letter to Mrs. Schwabe. 
[ Translation. ] Carlton Terrace: 2nd May, 1854. 


So much kindness cannot be resisted ! I accept your affec- 
tionate invitation to pay a visit to your charming abode in 
Wales, with pleasure and thankfulness—but at a time when 
you yourself will be there—in case that should be in summer 
or autumn, At present, and to the end of June, my pre- 
sence in the neighbourhood of London is indispensable ; but 
in July I hope to be able to dispose of myself. We shall 
hardly be able to fix ourselves in our new abode before the 
New Year. Between this time and then lie gloomy months 
for Prussia and Germany and the whole world. My resolu- 
tion is taken—I shall not again enter into public life, but 
devote the years yet remaining to me to reflection upon the 
great objects of eternal significance, to which, from earliest 
youth, I had consecrated my soul. Only, to depart from 
England is a thought intolerable to me, as though all heart- 
strings must be cut through. I write not to you about my 
retiring from office: generally speaking, it was as the 
‘Times’ indicated. The dear King is entangled in a web. 
The Queen, Prince Albert, Lord Clarendon, Lord John 
Russell have all expressed their approbation of my pro- 
ceeding in the most satisfactory manner. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
['Translation. | Ist May, 1854. 
You know how I struggled, almost desperately, to retire 
from public employment in 1850. Now the cord is broken, 
and the bird is free, the Lord be praised ! | 


214 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Extracts from Daughter's Letters. 


Saturday, May, 1854. 

. Last Sunday was a never-to-be-forgotten Whit 
Sunday: my father and mother and all of us went to the 
Savoy Church for the last time, and we stayed all together 
at the Holy Communion, after which we were asked to go 
into the vestry, where clergy and superintendents desired 
leave to present an address to my father. Dear old Stein- 
kopf was too unwell to read the address which he had written 
most warmly and affectionately, and 1t was read aloud by 
Schoell: the vestry was as full as it could hold of persons 
who had remained on purpose to be present. Then my 
father spoke a few words in answer, most beautifully— 
very different from his manner of speaking in English ; and 
giving such excellent parting advice as to the duty of all 
Germans in England, never to forget the fatherland, but to 
remain in spiritual communion with it, besides giving all the 
material aid in the power of every one severally. Half, at 
least, of those present wefé in tears; and the affectionate 
words and manner of each, as we all shook hands, were 
most affecting. The German Hospital Committee desire 
also to present an address, which they will bring on Thurs- 
day. Yesterday as we were to dine at Mr. Gurney’s to take 
leave, we passed by Dalston, to the joy of all the inmates, 
particularly of the matron, who feels that she 1s losing a 
support and protection often experienced, in the departure 
of my father and also of Frances. 


Extract of a Letter from a Son in London to his Brother 
m the Country. 

8th May, 1854. 
The letter of the Prince of Prussia was followed by one 
from the Princess—equally warm, and, in fact, affectionate. 
Prince Albert has been most warm in his expressions, in his 
own name and that of Queen Victoria. You will be de- 
lighted to read these letters, with those of many a real 


Fir. 62] LETTER TO MRS. SCHWABE. 215 


friend. Lord John Russell’s is a fine document. Lord 
Aberdeen kept my father two hours, and parted from him 
with tears in his eyes. ‘J was instrumental in fixing you 
here, thirteen years ago, and indeed I do not regret it—I 
cannot take leave of you.’ Lord Palmerston speaks as quite 
indignant at this break-up, and shows all the kindness 
he can. 

We felt it a great blessing to drive to church yesterday, 
for my father, as it were, to take leave. He was very 
happy, in a solemn temper. You would have been glad to 
have been present, when, during the last part of the hymn, 
he bowed down his fine head, leaning it on both his hands, 
and prayed silently, an abundant flow of tears rushing from 
his eyes. Nothing could be more mild and heavenly than 
his spirit all the day—open, bright, and generous to all 
whom he met. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 
[ Translation. | St. Leonard’s-on-Sea: 12th May, 1854. 

Your valued second letter has hit upon the very crisis of 
our life;—-we must give up Hngland, and we are about to 
remove to Germany, and to Heidelberg. To-morrow I shall 
learn whether the house there must be taken from the 24th. 
Should this be the case, we should be obliged to set ont 
about the 18th. 

Thus the fair prospect of Glyn Garth falls to pieces! 
This removal is the will of God for us: and as soon as we 
had perceived that, we ,have as fully entered into it as 
though it had been from the first our own will.* 


* The friendship which connected Mrs. Salis Schwabe with Bunsen 
and his wife was recent in date, but not the less real. Through a 
common friend, of high value to all, they had been for some yeurs ac- 
quainted, and were further drawn together by sympathy in the deep 
affliction of Mrs, Schwabe for the death of her excellent husband, two 
years before the present date. On this occasion, Mrs. Schwabe’s invita- 
tion and offer of such thorough-going hospitality as consisted in placing 
her beautiful residence of Glyn Gurth, in North Wales, at the sole dis- 


216 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Letter from a Daughter-in-Law. 
May, 1854. 


Your father came up from St. Leonard’s on Tuesday— 
that evening they had a few friends to take leave. On 
Wednesday he meant to have returned to St. Leonard’s 
early, as he had accredited Count Henckel as Chargé 
d’ Affaires the day before: but he was long with Prince 
Albert, so that when I went thither at three o’clock, he 
was only then leaving; I was so glad to be there, to be 
present at that closing scene. He was in the library with 
your mother, E.and G.: he looked full of deepest thoughts. 

. But how desolate it all looked! That beautiful room 
stripped of every book, ornament, and picture, and he only 
standing there waiting to be off! Then the brougham was 
announced. He said but few words—we followed him into 
the hall, full of piled-up boxes—the men-servants all stand- 
ing there. He said a few words to our mother, gave a few 
parting injunctions to Ernest, without a muscle of his face 
moving, and got into his carriage. I cannot tell you what 
we all felt. Our hearts were in our months, and yet no 
one spoke a word but himself. I got mn to accompany him 
—I could not bear his going alone ; and what an interesting 
drive we had! He talked so beautifully and touchingly of 
everything, especially of his visit to Prince Albert, saying 
he had referred. him to his translation of the 73rd Psalm, 
as the best description of the present time. So we got to 
the station, where he took leave of the old coachman; and 
then we paced up and down. He talked about us all, and 
all that his children were to him, now more than ever. 
And then he departed: and I returned to Carlton Terrace 
to talk to G. about business, and carry away my usual 
daily cargo of things set apart for you and Mary and 
ourselves. ... 
posal of the Bunsens for as long as they might be inclined to inhabit it, 


—claimed the return of cordial consciousness of sympathy, which caused 
Bunsen to keep up a frequent correspondence with her to his life’s end. 


Zr. 62) HIS «PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION’ 217 


Bunsen to lis Wife. 


[Translation. } 77, Marina, St. Leonard’s: 12th May, 1854. 


I arrived here prosperously, and was received at the 
station by Emily and a servant, to my great refreshment. 
I came on foot hither, where the excellent master of the 
house met me, followed by Mrs. Wagner, with the hearty 
kindness peculiar to himself—he having been cured of an 
indisposition, and called out of bed by yesterday’s success- 
ful election of Mr. North. After the ‘substantial tea,’ the 
two good girls played Beethoven and other things, and 
then I went (quite well) to bed, and rose early this morning. 
Before six I was writing at my ‘Conclusion’ for the press, 
which I hope to finish before noon. My feeling is that I 
may be suddenly called back to town. Hverything is ready 
for whatever may come, and whenever it comes. . . . 

14th May.—I still feel the pressure of care... the 
Lord will certainly help; one must do one’s own part, and 
then have patience. Tull now, the way has been beyond 
hope made plain to us—first, pointed out, and then traced 
and made smooth. What a beautiful letter, high-minded 
and affectionate, John Harford has written! God be thanked 
for so many precious hearts full of love that surround us! 
My close on the ‘ Philosophy of Religion’ has given me 
much trouble, but I am pleased with it at last. It consists 
of sixty pages (about forty in print), much eompressed, 
intelligible, and without circumlocution. I hope to read it 
to you on Friday printed. . 

Thursday evening, 10th Mar y. —Although I have the whole 
day been composing and writing in English, and matter 
from my soul’s innermost—yet am I moved now to close 
the working day with a few German words to you, best 
beloved! TI have had a true foretaste of the blessedness of 
a free and tranquil existence, to which the Lord will 
conduct us, through the midst of storms as to outward 
things, in the mild light of His grace and His peace, 


218 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1854 


according to our heart’s best longings, granting our most 
urgent prayer. And this has been granted to me before 
the bitter cup was wholly drunk out, and the fight fought 
out, the distress ended—and even during separation from 
you, and from the dear and valued beings whom God has 
granted to us. Ido not say in a strange land, for such is 
this land not to me, but rather a second fatherland. But 
the longing after the land of my fathers breaks out from 
time to time and strengthens me for the parting, not with 
splendour and dignity of station—for these are oppressive 
to me—but from the love and attachment which wind 
round my heart their thousand bands. May it be thus 
with us both when the hour of death approaches! .. . 


To Archdeacon Julius Hare. 
77, Marina, St. Leonard’s-on-Sea: 22nd May, 1854. 


My pearest Frienp,—I cannot be with you to-morrow 
bodily, but I shall be with you in soul and spirit on that 
auspicious day, which crowns so many noble and pious 
wishes, and hopes, and prayers, and sacrifices. God be 
thanked that you will see to-morrow that beautiful spot 
consecrated for ever to God’s service, on the outskirts of 
that population among whom you and yours have grown 
and lived. 

I am awaiting in this refreshing sea air and quiet the 
arrival of the letters of recall, the delivery of which to 
your noble and blessed Queen will be the last act of an 
official hfe of thirty-six years. My opponents have exactly 
been the instruments to help me to this harbour, towards 
which I long tended. My ties to England have been more 
closely knit together in this crisis than ever before, and 
will only be loosened by the last breath of my life. We 
hope to embark in time to be present at Matilda’s Con- 
firmation, which will fix our departure for the 18th June, 
that day of Belle Alliance on which I landed thirteen 
years ago as the King’s envoy. 


ZET. 62] CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE. 219 


At Heidelberg I shall find five out of the eight German 
theologians with whom I can agree... . 


To the Same. 
London: 2nd June, 1854. 


We may yet hope for the happiness of seeing you here; 
as to our leaving town, even for a day, it is impossible. 

Yes, my dear friend, I have sold all that in future will 
not be of use, or of essential use, for our living at a German 
University town, where you can have all books of reference 
sent to your own house, and I have kept of my museum 
only the head of Christ in marble, and the copy of the 
head in the Transfiguration, and (besides gifts, which of 
course we keep) my prints of the Old School collected in 
Italy. As to books, I have kept all classics, theology, 
philosophy, and history, which is all I want in future. 

We are staying with Ernest, at Abbey Lodge, Regent’s 
Park, and from Tuesday next we shall be at leisure to 
live to ourselves and our friends. Let me know when you 
arrive and where you are to be found. With indescribable 
longing to see you, ever your affectionate friend—-BunsEn. 


Bunsen to lis Wife. (At Heidelberg.) 
[Translation. | Abbey Lodge: Monday, 12th June, 1854. 


Only one line—a sign of life and love. I have had a 
delightful day with Max Miiller, who told me the result of 
the Turner Hssay, which I had no time to read; Trevelyan 
was also there, and Jowett, all full of kindness. I feel 
quite overwhelmed by so much affection; may I once leave 
the world, as now I leave England,—with love all around, 
but yet goimg willingly ! | 

To-day I shall be with Hare; to-morrow, Stanley; Wednes- 
day, the Thatched House; Thursday, Gladstone comes to 
breakfast; Friday, leave taking. The Prince and the 
Queen always most kind. All things prepared for de- 
parture. Harford has given me a copy of the ceiling of 


220 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


the Sixtine Chapel. Yesterday we had a terrible storm, 
but you will have been safe in port before that. 

Friday, 16th June.—This, beloved, has been a serious day, 
the last (seemingly at least) in England: besides which, 
until two days ago, it seemed to me impossible that I could 
accomplish all, even though thirty men of Spottiswoode’s 
printing establishment work day and night, and yet more 
impossible did Rowan and Spottiswoode deem it that I 
should keep pace with so many hands. In addition, my 
Japhetic translation of John vi. and xvii. was still due, 
and some of my xxx. Theses were not done to my mind. 
Lastly, I found that the Preface to ‘Hgypt’ u. had still 
need of a notice of two new works, which I had hardly 
read. God be thanked, all this zs finished, half an hour 
ago. Brandis and G. helped faithfully. This morning the 
last words, for the Thesis and some other chapters, came 
from my pen. Thus is my last English work completed, 
and has grown out of an occasional into a permanent work ; 
for the thoughts laid down in it will long outlive me, and 
perhaps here or in the Whited States will find a fruitful 
soil, sooner than in Germany, distracted as it is, without 
nerve for action. 

As Brandis is finishing the examination of the ‘ Chrono- 
logical Tables,’ I may freely turn my eyes and mind towards 
my German fatherland. Never in my life have I felt more 
conscious of the Divine support and blessing! and I hope 
that consciousness will keep me in humility as in faith. 


In the evening of that Friday, 16th June, several 
of Bunsen’s most intimate friends had been invited 
to dinner at Abbey Lodge, among whom were Hare 
and Maurice. The former addressed a few parting 
words to him, who was never again to grace that 
table, that house, that country, with his presence. 
The impressive address, spoken with deep emotion 
and listened to with no common sympathy, called 


JET. 62| FAREWELL ADDRESS TO HIS FRIENDS. 221 


forth a farewell from Bunsen to the country and 
to the relations and friends he was about to leave. 

What England had been to him before he had 
even seen her, what lasting impressions had been 
produced in him, on his first visit in 1839 as a pri- 
vate individual, as well as ever since during the 
thirteen years of his official residence in this country; 
what precious links had, under Providence, been’ 
formed, in the land which gave birth to his wife; 
how he trusted that his children’s children’s children 
would be enabled to maintain the happy relations 
which dearly connected him, more especially with Ger- 
many, Italy, and England, but also with France ;— 
these were the leading topics of his parting address. 

The next morning, Saturday, 17th June, he left 
England for Heidelberg, accompanied by his son 
George. 


Bunsen to his Daughter-in-Law. (Sent early to her room, 
before they had met, on the last morning.) 


Abbey Lodge: Saturday morning, 17th June, 1854; nine o'clock. 


I hope im this rainy weather you will not venture out, and 
I must in one line give you my blessing, and a father’s 
thanks, for being what you are, an angel of love and kind- 
ness. You know not what you have done and been for me, 
in these weeks passed under your hospitable and blessed 
roof. May God bless you for it, here and eternally ! 

Love and kindest regards to your children, and the whole 
house of Gurney. 

I leave England, as I hope and wish to leave this world 
—loving and beloved, but willing and cheerful. 

Think of me on Wednesday. My blessing again on your 
children, and the dear baby in particular—Ever your affec- 
tionate father—BuNSEN. 


222 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1854 


Bunsen reached Mannheim on June 22nd, at night, 
and was met by his wife and two daughters early on 
the morning of the 23rd, when they were all present 
at the Confirmation of the youngest, performed by 
the truly reverend pastor, Winterwerber, at the Edu- 
cational Institute (then presided over by Fraiilein 
Amalia Jung), where Matilda Bunsen had been placed 
the preceding year. This introduction of his daugh- 
ter, with a large number of her contemporaries and 
fellow-pupils, into the period of self-dependence, in 
itself solemn and affecting, was rendered more im- 
pressive by the earnestness with which the honoured 
teacher reiterated the convictions which he had long 
laboured to fix in the minds of his scholars; and it 
was heart-warming and soothing for Bunsen to re- 
enter—through this celebration of a Christian solemn- 
ity, upon which he set a,peculiar value—the life of his 
native country. After this, a short remaining railway 
journey brought him to the habitation, which had not 
been definitely engaged till after he should have seen 
it and acquiesced in the opinion of its being, not only 
the only house in Heidelberg that could have suited 
him, but also the spot which more especially com- 
bined the multiplied beauties of the valley of the 
Neckar. His image, as he stood leaning over the 
balustrade of the terrace of Charlottenberg, entranced 
by the prospect, which was gilded by the fulness of 
sunshine upon the full development of vegetation, and 
embalmed by the scent of orange-flowers and roses in 
the garden—forgetting that his wife and the lady who 
owned the house were waiting to show him the rooms 
—will remain while memory lasts in the mind of the 


Ex, 62] CHARLOTTENBERG. 923 


former. It was a great boon to have such a place as 
Charlottenberg provided for Bunsen’s latter years ; 
and his enjoyment of it was constant and unfailing 
each year, as long as the fine season lasted, that 
is, the period of long days and mild temperature. 
During the other half of the year, the reign of death 
in vegetation and of discomfort to all animated 
nature, which made the Continental winter a time 
of habitual bodily suffering to him, could not be 
laid to the account of that habitation. Had circum- 
stances allowed of his spending the winter months 
recularly on the southern coast of France, or even 
on that of England, to be invigorated by sea-air 
against the influence of damp and cold, his life might 
possibly have been protracted; but the regret must 
be checked by the consideration that the satisfaction 
of life for him consisted in the execution of his various 
works, which could not be carried on exceptionally, 
nor at a distance from materials of reference, such as 
could be furnished only by the public library of an 
University. 

Bunsen found at Heidelberg a few intimate friends, 
and was warmly greeted by many newer ones, besides 
which, during the summer and autumn, an unfailing 
current of travellers of all nations furnished him with 
opportunities of constant social intercourse with 
former or with fresh acquaintances. ‘The pleasure of 
such social meetings will be present to the minds of 
many persons, as well as that of the writer of these 
lines. Were but the practice of making notes of 
conversations more common, much of general interest 
might have been preserved from that time. 


294, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg : 28th June, 1854. 


My books are placed far more within reach, and arranged 
more according to inclination, than was possible in London. 
Your mother and sisters have done wonders, and the rooms 
look so home-like that one cannot admit the possibility of 
ever quitting them. The lower apartment, the terrace 
and its prospect, are enjoyable even in rainy weather, but 
in sunshine ideally beautiful. I feel cause to thank God 
daily for being here; for I experience almost tangibly that 
I have need of all my time and all my powers, to carry out 
the task laid upon me by the fifth volume of ‘ Egypt.’ I 
am, once for all, a German, placing before me the ideal 
problem as being capable of solution, because that solution 
is an intellectual necessity ; and at the same time I am an 
Englishman, who refers to history all questions concerning 
reality. | 

TSthe Same. 
{ Translation. | Charlottenberg : July, 1854. 

I thank God that I am here—first, because, as things are, 
I could remain with satisfaction nowhere else, in no other 
town, or house; secondly, because Heidelberg and Charlot- 
tenberg are the best of their kind, and both indescribably 
beautiful. But I miss John Bull, the sea, the ‘Times’ in 
the morning, and, besides, some dozens of individual fellow- 
creatures. 


To the Same. 
[Translation. | Charlottenberg: 27th July, 1854. 

I have chosen a form of representation in the work on 
Egypt which will give all facts collected into one focus. In 
the Preface I mean to set forth the results of the whole, for 
antiquarian research and for the philosophy of the human 
race, in mere ‘household words.’ My Dedi¢ation to Schel- 


Zr. 62] THE IMMACULATE CONCEPTION. 225 


ling pleases others, and myself too. That to Champollion 
may turn out well also: it is a sort of legend. 
To the Same. 
(Translation. ] 22nd August. 

The plans of the Camarilla are becoming more extrava- 
gant than ever. Being disappointed by Auerswald, one of 
them has conceived the design of preparing an alliance be- 
tween Prussia, Russia, and France ; of course, against Eng- 
land and Austria—Haugwitz outdone ! 

In a letter, dated Michaelmas 1854, Bunsen 
observes, on the subject of the dogma about to be 
proclaimed by the Pope as binding on the conscience 
of all Catholics,—that all that Protestants could do, 
would be to point out to reasonable Catholics to what 
a point they are being led by the Pope. At the same 
time he declares his conviction, that no good influ- 
ence can be exerted by Protestants upon Catholics, 
until they shall have achieved a right to speak with 
authority upon experience, by constituting and re- 
presenting real communities in home, Church, and 
State. 

Referring to a communication from the late Arch- 
bishop of Canterbury upon the subject of the Imma- 
culate Conception, he contrasts the truly Christian 
sentiments of the Patriarch of the Anglo-Saxons with 
those of the Patriarch of Alexandria, the persecutor 
of Nestorius, who, in an address to the Fathers of the 
Council of Ephesus, used these words :—‘ By the mo- 
ther of God the tempter is overcome, and fallen man 
is raised to Heaven.’ * . 

* It was in this same Council of Ephesus that the dogma of the Im- 


maculate Conception, of Mary was first introduced and approved, which 
the present Pope, in 1854, added to the Creed of the Roman Church. 


VOL. II. Q 


226 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Bunsen to Inicke. 
[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg: 24th August, 1854. 


The woes and wrongs of my beloved fatherland in gene- 
ral, of the condition of the Church and of religious instruc- 
tion in particular, weigh more heavily upon my heart than 
I could at a distance have believed possible. Not to be op- 
pressed in spirit by the spectacle requires a great effort of 
philosophical reflection. I shall keep away from the 
Kirchentag (general meeting of German Protestants), at 
least until the men who design to makc it an instrument of 
their separatist will shall have been excluded from the com- 
mittee. The first object ought to be, to support the Union 
against their system of violence and persecution ; the feeble 
basis of confederacy is not even accepted by them in sin- 
cerity. But what should be expected from those who pro- 
pose as law the Lutheran Liturgy for infant baptism, with 
Exorcism and Regeneration? I shall not go to that meet- 
ing, but other levers will. not be wanting to drive out the 
evil spirit, not by Beelzebub, but by the Word of the Lord ; 
to which work I feel, as you do, a fresh spring of youthful 
courage. 


A Fragment entitled ‘From 25th August, 1849, to 24th Au- 
gust, 1854, Five Years’ Withdrawal from Service,’—but 
broken off after the introductory sentences here translated. 


‘Should this not succeed, then will it be time to descend 
into the grave, or at least to quit public life.’ 

With these words I closed five years ago my political con- 
templations. Now, at the entrance of my sixty-fourth year, 
I find myself removed from the banks of the Thames to 
those of the Neckar, and from public life to the tranquillity 
of domestic and literary retirement. 

That long-foreseen moment came before the mind’s eye 
with unmistakable reality and death-like solemnity in No- 
vember 1850, How I then formed the determination to re- 


JET. 63] LETTER TO A SON. 227 


tire, as soon as an opportunity for so doing should offer, with- 
out neglect of duty towards fatherland or family ; how mean- 
while I resumed my work long since begun and laid aside, 
and betook myself to new research ; how at the same time 
I prepared the mind of the King, through Radowitz, for my 
resolution ; how in 1851 I went to Bonn, to take cognisance 
of the harbour in which I desired to find refuge; how on 
the very eve of asking leave of absence and permission to 
resign, I was suddenly detained by serious illness, and how 
the near approach of winter rendered removal impossible ; 
how in the beginning of 1852 I resolved to maintain the 
post as long as possible, which my political opponents pro- 
jected to occupy with one of their own number; how Il 
suffered the infliction of poor Marcus Niebuhr’s sad mission, 
which caused the last delusions as to the purposes of the 
Court with respect to the Constitution to vanish from my 
mind; how finally I entered upon the Eastern question with 
the ever-increasing consciousness of fulfilling o destiny, and 
the firm resolution to hazard all in the endeavour after a 
dignified position for Prussia in the impending struggle :— 
all that I shall another time state in all detail, with reference 
to events and to my political correspondence. But now I 
shall only tell of my retirement, and of the events which 
immediately led thereto. ... 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. | Charlottenberg: 7th October, 1854. 


My work gets on well. By the side of it I have arranged 
with Miss Winkworth the publication of twenty-six sermons 
of Tauler’s from Advent to Pentecost, with his life. The 
trial of skill has proved successful; she has hit the right 
tone. 

The Baltic is a Russian sea, and the King of Denmark © 
keeper of the gate. That must be thrown open, and thw 
union of Calmar re-established. Instead of the Protocol 


of the Danish succession, the present dynasty should be 
Q2 


228 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


suffered to die out. The dynasties must be consolidated, 
like the debts of a state after a bankruptcy. 

Schloss Monrepos: 26th October.—To-morrow I go to 
Géttingen. I seek my place in the fatherland, and feel that 
I shall find it; the minds come nearer to me, and I to 
them.... 


Bunsen to his Wife. (At Charlottenberg.) 
From Schloss Monrepos: Monday, 16th October, 1854. 


All right! I am in full sail, and I hope with due thank- 
fulness to our gracious God. 

Heavy, dreadful times are coming for Prussia and Ger- 
many,—happy he whois independent! .. . 

Gottingen, 22nd October.—My stay here is most gratifying 
and important to me. My old friends, Reck included, are 
all I could wish ; Ewald and the other new luminaries have 
received me with the greatest kindness and esteem. 


Bunsen to a Son, on his Engagement. 
(Translation. ] Gottingen: 23rd October, 1854. 


You know already how joyfully I hailed the first intel- 
ligence of your hopes, from all that you told me of your 
beloved, and also of your own state of mind. I distin- 
guished the hand of the Lord clearly in this contingency. 
All true, genuine love, that love which is ‘ stronger than 
death,’ which is of force to surmount victoriously all life’s 
changes and chances, begins with the consciousness of un- 
worthiness in relation to God, who had conducted us to re- 
ceive this pledge of His eternal love, as well as in relation 
to the beloved object ; and more especially must this be the 
feeling of the man, whose heart after storms and rough 
waves has found the haven of repose, and who for the 
first time thoroughly feels what it is to be permitted to call 
a pure and noble female heart his own. That feeling I had, 
when first on the evening of the 3lst May, on the sacred 
spot in the Colosseum, and then next morning in the pater- 


ZET. 63] LETTER TO A SON ON HIS ENGAGEMENT. 229 


nal house, your beloved mother uttered to me the solemn 
vow. Do you hold fast that feeling !—for it is the voice of 
God that called it forth ; it is the pulsation of eternal life 
within us so often crushed by the load of outward things, 
and kept down by the world’s pressure. This feeling is 
destined to expand more and more into pure thankfulness, 
to render our whole life a thank-offering, through ever in- 
creasing self-renunciation: It is the sole safe pledge of 
duration in the joy of love. Most men, and even most 
poets, suppose the beginning of love to be its culminating 
point: but whoever has really loved, and discriminated the 
nature of love (which among poets, only Plato, Dante, 
Shakespeare, and Géthe have done), will smile at such an 
error. 

That love, on the other hand, which is but self-idolatry, 
therefore the opposite to real love in the innermost heing, 
soon smoulders away self-consumed : for self-adoration can 
only subsist in the light of the accelerated process of decay 
and. dissolution. 

And now, dearest, look once back with me upon your 
(Lehr-und Wanderjahre) years of learning and wandering. 
Do you not see, and feel, and touch the fact, that all you 
have gone through was necessary, to enable you to find your 
true happiness? Look ever up to God, and hold fast by the 
invisible, the alone true, that your faith may be preserved. 

My stay at Gottingen has been so heart-cheering that 
I daily think over and contemplate it with more solemn 
earnestness. Itis now just forty-five years since I came 
here, with my courageous father’s blessing, and the letter 
to Professor Bunsen, who was to introduce me to Heyne ; 
it will soon be thirty-nine years since I quitted the ‘ Georgia 
Augusta’ for ever, and it is twenty-six years and a half 
since I saw Licke on my hurried passage from Berlin to 
Rome (April, 1828) for the last time. What lies not be- 
tween those dates! Yet I still know every house, and still 
find cordial esteem and affection flowing in upon me from 


230 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


all sides, from grey-haired men of science, and from those 
of later date, never seen before ; Liicke and even Reck are 
quite as of old; Liicke and myself have been led in different 
ways to the same convictions : only as to the means of bring- 
ing them into general acceptation, we stand not on the same 
ground, Asto these considerations, I feel that I have been 
raised above many of my German contemporaries: England 
has made me a practical man in this also: but all will reach 
the same point within the next ten or twenty years, and 
events may precipitate the result. All wish to proceed from 
knowledge into life; all are more or less conscious of com- 
munity, and feel that our place of union must be the 
Christian people organised (Gemeinde). But most, and the 
best hearts, are dispirited. I preach to them freshness of 
courage, and trust in German knowledge, the plant from 
whence will proceed the future, sown by the Spirit and by 
faith in reality, in the midst of the present materialistic and 
confused age. Their minds advance to meet me. I feel 
that I stand higher with my nation than when I was in 
high place and lived amorf¥ foreigners: and I have no- 
where been more aware of it than here. And I sit with in- 
describable pleasure at the feet of the great masters of 
science, and the admirable men of learning in this town of 
the Muses, to ask questions and receive information; this 
applies more especially to Ewald, also to Ritter and Her- 
mann, indeed to all theologians of the ‘ Georgia Augusta.’ 
Without explaining my plan to anyone but Liicke, I have 
brought all to feel that nothing is so necessary to the 
community of Christians as a Bible such as is by me pro- 
posed. Only by starting from the standpoint of Universal 
History can one persuade the German people to return to 
Bible-reading, as the food of life, and as a habit of life: and 
that is what thousands of hearts pine after. . . . 


His return from Gottingen was just before the set- 
ting in of a severe winter, and the gloom and confine- 


Zr. 63] HIS ‘BIBELWERK.’ 231 


ment of that season were only too severely felt, in- 
creasing the oppression of spirit caused by the reports 
of the Crimean campaign. But the following extracts 
from letters will prove satisfactorily, that, as on every 
previous occasion, Bunsen was raised above the present 
scene by intellectual and spiritual interests, and by 
labours for the benefit of the intelligent in Christian 
society. 
Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 


[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg : 19th November, 1854. 


I am very desirous to show you how agreeable our 
dwelling here is, and how we enjoy and profit by the hap- 
piness of quiet and peace, and I hope also by the leisure 
here granted. Not only have I, thank God! brought my 
work on Egypt nearly into readiness for printing, but I am 
busied with the thought of another work, which, more than 
any one yet undertaken, occupies and animates me,—the 
exccution of which isin closest connection with the ‘ Life of 
Jesus, and, in fact, as a preparation to it indispensable... . 


T'o the Same. 
[Translation.] Charlottenberg: 24th November, 1854. 


Each day I feel more convinced, that if my work is in- 
deed accomplished, much false beliefand much unbelief will 
come to anend. For the foundation of the general view 
with which I look at the Bible, and can explain it from be- 
ginning to end, as an Unity in Spirit,—an eternal declara- 
tion of ‘tidings of joy to man,’—the voice of God in the 
world’s history,—can be so clearly carried through, that all 
factitious systems based upon false views or the misunder- 
standing of theologians cannot stand against it. On the 
other hand, the earnest-minded among the Christian na- 
tions will more than ever recognise in the Bible their own 
book ; and in learning to understand the Scripture as the 


232 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


‘world’s mirror’ (as Gdthe says), will experience the 
strengthening of their fuith in Christ. Now, on the con- 
trary, nine-tenths of the Bible are a closed volume, to the 
one part of mankind venerable and sacred because unintel- 
ligible ; to the other, for that same reason, dead, or even 
repulsive. Here the explanation of every single passage is 
not the question ; with regard to many of them, different 
scholars would give different verbal explanations. The 
main matter ig the foundation laid for the view of the 
whole, in allits bearings; and that, once obtained, admits 
of no break—being the universal-historical development of 
the consciousness of God in humanity, which in Christ has 
its personal centre. The magnificence of the Old Testa- 
ment, when once one can understand it, is unique of its 
kind. I have begun to arrange the prophecies of the Seer 
of the new Jerusalem, and to write them in order; he lived 
in the Babylonian exile, and, towards the end of it, after 
the death of Nebuchadnezzar, preached and exhorted to the 
return from the death-doomed Babylon; and I consider 
him to have been no othersthan Baruch. These prophecies 
are contained in disguise as a beginning of the Book of 
Jeremiah (chap. 11.—xxi.) and in that of Isaiah (chap. xi. 
—xxvi.), and also in two passages of the real book of Isaiah 
(chap. xiii., xiv., and xxi, 1—10). Reading these in con- 
nection, and placing one’s own soul in the midst of that 
period so full of terrible judgments, and yet of hope,—one 
is admonished to recognise the eternal laws of God in the 
ordering of the course of the world, even in our own time, 
and in our own days ; and one perceives that a similar mode 
of world-contemplation may rightly belong to other and 
various dispensations. 

In Berlin it is reported that the King has named me to 
a peerage for life, with remainder to my son Ernest, sup- 
posing he purchases property and lives in Prussia. I know 
nothing of this. 


/ET. 63] CLOSE OF THE YEAR 18654, , 233 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 


[ Translation. ] Heidelberg : last evening of the year 1854. 


The melodious bells of all the churches are ringing out 
the old year—in the church a full and devout congregation 
have been singing, with trombone accompaniment, ‘Nun 
danket Alle Gott !’~-and your mother and I have said to- 
gether with tearful eyes, ‘ Praise the Lord, for He is gra- 
cious, and His mercy endureth for ever! Who maketh the 
lame to walk, and the blind to sec! What is man that 
Thou so regardest him, or the son of man that Thou so 
visitest him P” 

Lord! I am not worthy of the goodness and mercy 
which Thou hast shown me! What a year this has been! 
how dark was everything when the old year was hastening 
to its close! Once a gleam of hope appeared, but who 
would trust it? and immediately after the sky darkened 
altogether. | 

And where was a way to be found for us to escape from 
the slavery of life, and out of the ruin of all political 
hopes? Yet now, here we are sitting in happy rest and 
peace, in the German fatherland, surrounded by love and 
respect far and near. Emilia restored to activity, G. hap- 
pily married, your dear wife and children all well; and I 
(please God) entrusted with a work which fills my whole 
soul—a work far too vast for me ever to grasp it as a 
whole; but the most glorious guide from time to eternity, 
and, if my heart’s desire be blessed, from the present to 
the future. 

Darkness indeed reigns without, but tempests from the 
Lord are stirring and coruscating through the earth’s at- 
mosphere. The Lord is coming to judgment: He will 
judge the people with equity. The old order of things is 
jadged: forty years of peace have not improved it—it is 
falling to pieces; but everywhere, visible to the eye of 
faith, nations are coming forth out of dynasties, the con- 


234 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


gregation out of hierarchy: and voices of thunder utter in 
all languages the cry after truth, light, liberty! Among 
those voices are blended those of madmen ;—but who has 
driven them mad? and of infidels ;—but who has driven 
them to despair of God’s moral government of the world ? 

1 have bid adieu to politics, except in quarters where I 
may confess my faith, and utter my detestation as well as 
my affection. 

But in Church matters, I have spoken the word by which 
I hope to abide, and with which I hope to die— 


I go from the Jews to the Gentiles, 
From the Church to the congregation,— 
And I leave the dead to bury their dead. 


* 


Bunsen to Julius Schnorr von Carolsfeld. 


[ Translation. ] | 
Charlottenberg, near Heidelberg : 31st December, 1854. 

The year, my beloved friend, shall not close without my 
having written the letter long due and long intended. You 
know in general what has befallen me: writing on that 
subject would be too lengthy. Let it be enough to say, I 
could not with a good conscience remain to forward the 
measures which [I did not approve, and I thank God for my 
recovered freedom. I think you have confidence enough in 
me to believe that 1 feel incomparably happier in my retire- 
ment and leisure in the quiet vineyard, opposite to the 
walls of the ancient castle, close to the rushing Neckar, 
than in Carlton Terrace and in the diplomatic uniform. I 
have purposely avoided going into Prussia, and have de- 
clined very kind and gracious invitations to visit Berlin. 

The Spirit has moved me, and friends have encouraged 
me also, to the idea of a Bible for the People: we shall see 
what comes of it. ‘ The ‘ Life of Jesus’ is prepared. I have 
closed my work in England with seven volumes: hence- 
forward I write only in German... . 

Of the continuation of your Bible illustrations I have 


fit. 63] LAST LETTER TO ARCHDEACON HARE, 230 


received proofs full of life and spirit, by your kind direc- 
tions. 


Dusch and I have a plan to induce our valued Rehbenitz 
to visit us next summer. 

Do you keep up a fresh spirit in the midst of the judg- 
ments which are falling upon the world ; and in the midst 
of a fateful blindness, continue believing, and hoping in 
freedom and strength! (Sec Isaiah xlviii., last verse.) 
God grant us all His peace in the new year, and no other ! 


The year 1855 was marked at its very beginning 
by the death of one of Bunsen’s most beloved and 
valued friends, Archdeacon Julius Hare. A close 
intimacy began with their earliest acquaintance, in 
Rome, January 1833, and had been interwoven with 
the web of his life ever since. A letter from one of 
his sons, dated London, 25th January, thus commu- 
nicates the event :— 


Julius Hare, the high-minded affectionate friend, was not 
mistaken, when, under the arbour in this very garden, he 
declared to you (in June last),—‘ No, my dear Bunsen, we 
shall not meet again—we have parted this day.’ Since 
Tuesday, the 23rd, at seven o’clock, he has been no longer 
among the living on this earth. 


A correspondence was kept up between the friends, 
unfailing though not frequent, and Bunsen’s letters— 
‘carefully and tenderly preserved, and oh! how 
prized !’—were restored with these words, by the 
honoured widow, now, alas! no more amongst us. 
The very last of the series may be in part introduced 
here, a8 conveying a picture of the multiplicity of ob- 
jects in common, and of the degree of sympathy, 
between the friends :— 


236 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1854 


Charlottenberg, Heidelberg: 10th September, 1854. 


My perarest Frienp,—God be thanked that you are 
better! I hope that these lines will greet you in my stead 
on your birthday, and thank you for the kind imspiriting 
lines which greeted me from you on mine. The conscious- 
ness of communion in the mind must compensate for the 
absence of bodily presence; and well may it do so after a 
friendship of a quarter of a century! I never was so much 
satisfied with my work in seven volumes, as when I read 
from your hand that you liked its being dedicated to you. 
Of nobody have I thought so much, in composing it, as of 
you, without whom the first edition, and thus the whole 
undertaking, would never have existed. 

I cannot help believing that the results of my mytholo- 
gical researches, confined as they must be to the Theogonic 
and Cosmogonic sphere, will be more surprising even than 
those of the linguistic. Ancient Asia is the mother of all 
religious speculation, as in Egypt, so in Hellas, and in 
Italy. I myself had no idga in what degree all is true that 
I have said about it in the Introduction to ‘Egypt.’ The 
very names, often, and the ideas throughout, the same. 
The first verses in St. John are the sober recapitulation of 
the centre of God-Consciousness, from which the mytholo- 
gical Kpos of mankind has started! The Old Testament 
stands upon the basis of the most ancient consciousness of 
the Semitic tribes,—still more wonderful by what it keeps 
out of sight, than by what it displays of the relation of God 
and the universe. I believe I] have found a method to 
make the proof conclusive for my purpose. 

No words can give an idea of the beauty of this place, or 
of the delight which we take in it. As Gothe says (ina 
letter of 1797), ‘ Heidelberg is ideally beautiful.’ And 
our Charlottenberg is its centre and gem. I never in my 
life enjoyed nature so much. I have had here, besides 
Tocqueville and Layard, Laboulaye and the Vicomte de 
Rougé, who has decyphered a ‘ blue book’ about the history 


ZEr. 68] BUNSEN TO A SON ON ARCHDEACON HARE. 237 


of the seventeenth dynasty, and the transactions of Amos, 
predecessor with Apeps, the Shepherd-King. I expect Lep- 
sius, Gerhard, Abeken, Dietrich, and Susannah Winkworth 
in the course of this month; and G. and BE. next month. 
. . . Rothe and 1 have much comfort in cupg@idodoyeiv kai 
oupgirocodety. 

When will you come and see us P 


And thus was a relation closed, more inward and 
intimate than any of the kind still remaining to Bun- 
sen. This had been a friendship ‘without cataract 
or break,’ which had flowed on in an ever-increasing 
current of sympathy and mutual estimation from its 
first commencement; for the cutting-off of which by 
death no compensation could be made during the re- 
mainder of the survivor’s life, but which after all be- 
longed not to the temporal, and was ever of the kind 
which ‘ reacheth even unto life eternal.’ 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. | 


Charlottenberg: Sunday morning, January, 1855. 

My lines to Mrs. Julius Hare must have been on the way 
from London to Herstmonceaux, when you were among 
those who paid the last honours to the earthly remains of 
one of the most pure and noble-minded, as well as the most 
learned men, I have ever known ; and these will find you on 
your return from the house of mourning. I thank you 
cordially for the quick determination to represent me and 
our whole family on that day of solemnity! .I have written 
to the widow as to a sister, on all that must now occupy her 
mind; and also about the publication of the ‘ Charges,’ and 
the biography, which she should write herself, with mono- 
graphies by all his friends. I have offered myself to con- 
tribute ‘Julius Hare at Rome in 1832 and 1833.’ How 
lamentable, that bis library, that collection unique of its 


238 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


kind, the work of a life of intellectual activity, should in all 
probability be scattered about, or even sent to America! 
It ought to be purchased for Trinity College or Durham 
University ; for, alas! there is no modern renewal of the 
class of rich and noble landed proprietors, who look upon a 
classical library as a necessary ornament of their residences, 
and would think themselves fortunate in the acquisition of 
such a treasure... . 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. | 

Charlottenberg: Saturday morning, 20th January, 1855. 

Till the end of February, I shall master my impatience 
to see you again. You will find me changed. My work 
does not oppress me; on the contrary, 1t elevates me; but 
just in the same measure as I am clevated in spirit, I feel 
my carthly burden. For the first time I am conscious that 
the object before me is everything, and that I myself am 
nothing and nought. My courage increases, however, with 
every step in advance. I find so very much more than I 
ever anticipated, in confirmation of that intuitive view of 
the world’s life by which I have been consciously guided 
since 1812. All must become Mistory. The‘ People’s Bible’ 
manifests itself bodily—a corrected translation, with parallel 
passages, and comprehensive explanations of the sense and 
its connection, below the text—to the exclusion of all sys- 
tems. Thatis what my inmost feeling demands; the Scrip- 
ture stands equally high above the genuine as above the 
fallacious systems of men. Belief in the truth of Scrip. 
ture, of the Word of God in the Bible, and activity of 
Christian love in the congregation, these are the only real 
basis of the Christian community. Theology abounds in sys- 
tems arising from different conceptions of the same thing: 
so also do Philosophy and History; but, closely and indul- 
gently looked at, all such systems comnlete one another, 
and even their errors may be harmless in effect, if regarded 
only as a scaffolding and as steps by which every one mounts 


LET. 63} THE ‘PEOPLE'S BIBLE’. 239 


and makes entrance as he can, without mistaking them for 
the building itself. The Rationalists are in the right as to 
what they intend, but their opponents have brought much 
more moral earnestness to the enquiry, and thereby have 
furthered the deeper comprehension. The Spirit in the 
congregation of believers levels, adjusts, unites the whole 
into a divine harmony. 

Let us but have the one single objective reality that we 
possess—the Scripture—clearly before us, as represented 
by the nature and spirit of history, as a fact of the human 
mind, precise and positive as any fact of the material world, 
and the lever is given by which difficulties may be removed. 
That lever was wanting to the founders of the Society of 
Friends, as may well be understood ; but in spirit they de- 
sired nothing else; and their system, spiritually discerned, 
is right in all its negative part, while their positive part 
consists in their works of love to man. 

I had never anticipated that, for the re-establishment of 
the Bible as a book, so much had to be done, nor that it 
could, from the German standpoint, be done so easily. . . . 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. | Charlottenberg: 4th March, 18565. 


Here in this climate one has, literally speaking, cellular 
imprisonment for three months, with permission to per- 
ambulate the prison garden, wrapped in fur, as often as 
snow or wind shall happen to be moderate; from society 
one is altogether cut off in the long evenings. As to myself, 
I have passed through this winter in better health than for 
many years; but much longer I could not have borne the 
limitation of exercise in the fresh air to half an hour daily. 
In a southern winter I could work far better and easier 
than in this daily struggle for life and breath, whether 
beside the stove or outside the house. 


A detailed plan follows, for passing the next win- 


240 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1855 


ter at Palermo; but in July of thissame year (1855) 
began the anxious and sedulous enquiry and search 
after a regularly appointed learned assistant—the 
establishment of whom made remaining at home a 
necessity. 


Zit. 63] BARON PAUL VON HAHN. 241 


CHAPTER XVII. 
LIFE AT HEIDELBERG. 


LITERARY WORK—INTERVIEW WITH THE KING—‘ SIGNS OF THE TIMES *— 
FALL OF SEBASTOPOL —‘ GOD IN HISTORY’ — ‘ BIBELWERK’ — LETTER 
FROM ee BREMER —JOURNEY TO SWITZERLAND ——~ VISIT TO 
COPPET~—-SCHERER—RETURN TO HEIDELBERG-—-APPROACH OF OLD AGE 
—CLOSE OF THE YEAR 1856. 

THE year 1855 was distinguished by many circum- 

stances and occurrences which brightened the life of 

Bunsen. First may be named his having passed the 

winter months without actual illness, for the first time 

during several years, although the chronic state of dis- 
order which began while he was at Bonn in the au- 
tumn of 1850 made itself felt, as ever, by fits of 
suffocation, attributed to various causes with equal 
inaccuracy, and which did not admit of remedy or 
prevention. Next, mention must be made of the 
genial early spring, which brought temperature and 
sunshine in March, admitting of the possibility of 
sitting out in the garden, and cheering minds that 
yet clove with affection to the recollections of the 

South, with visions and promises as to climate, which 

the Cisalpine world could not realise. ‘To the short 

period of this exceptional garden life is to be re- 
ferred the much-enjoyed renewal of ancient inter- 
course and never-forgotten friendship with Baron von 

Hahn (of Karland) and his admired wife (née De 


VOL. II. R 


242 MEMOIRS OF BARON BCNSEN. 11854 


Graimberg), the reappearance of whose well-remem- 
bered faces, after twenty years’ separation, are asso- 
ciated in memory with that bright and inspiring 
scene. The first interview, and the beginning of 
friendship, with the Baroness Clara Boris von Uxkiill, 
belong to the same date and the same surrounding 
objects. This spring was further brightened to Bun- 
sen by the visit of his son George and his bride, over 
whose happy marriage the parents had rejoiced at a 
distance at the close of the preceding year. Be- 
fore their visit ended, the engagement of Theodora, 
the fourth daughter, to Augustus Baron von Ungern- 
Sternberg, was cheerfully consented to, as promising 
that reality of union and happiness in married life 
which proved, indeed, the blessed result of the con- 
nection—too soon to be severed by death! They 
consented the more readily to this marriage as, the 
bridegroom being in @n office under the Government 
of Baden and resident at Heidelberg, the separation 
was softened and seemed not absolute. The wedding 
took place on September 12, Bunsen having made a 
journey northwards just before, and another just 
after, of which the subjoined extracts from his letters 
give an account. He was occupied with intense in- 
terest on the work entitled ‘Signs of the Times,’ 
which was published in the autumn, and proceeded 
rapidly to a third edition. A translation was ad- 
mirably executed by Miss Winkworth, and printed in 
England; but the work would seem to have been too 
Continental to excite general attention in England, 
although it might be said that the evils against which 
the author contends are of all times and all countries, 


Et.68] PROBABLE AGE OF THE HUMAN RACT. 243 


only less impeded in their action on the Continent 
than in England. 

The spring was succeeded by a chilly and rainy 
summer, after which a peculiarly beautiful month of 
September heightened the charm of the Heidelberg 
valley, and a succession of friends of various nations, 
flowing in unbroken though ever-changing current 
over the garden-terrace and adjoining parlour of 
Charlottenberg, gave occasion to an amount of social 
cheerfulness and animated intercourse, which is 
looked back upon thankfully by the survivors, who 
felt the beneficial effect thus produced in refreshing 
and resting the mind of Bunsen. Could but the 
echoes of those hills restore the sounds they received. 


Bunsen to Agricola. — 
{ Translation. | Charlottenberg, Heidelberg: 31st May, 1855. 


Your letter, dear friend, has called back to my mind 
many an hour spent by us together at Gottingen, in philo- 
sophising upon things of the mind and of the universe. 
Each year and each day do I more absolutely find there the 
central point of thought and of research, and ever do I feel 
more strongly that neither thought nor research alone can 
satisfy and further us, but only the combination of both. 

Alas! the German feels compelled to dig so deep under 
the earth’s surface after his object, that he sooner finds his 
grave than the way to return to the surface; and thus, 
instead of a house, he constructs only the subterraneous 
portion of one ; or his building, if so far advanced, remains 
short of gable and roof; the gable being the forehead and 
glory of the house, as the roof is its security. 

By means of Egypt, and the researches into language 
and history connected with it (including the Old Testament), 
I have gained a solid foundation for the philosophy of the 


R 2 


24.4, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


history of the hnman mind which till now has been wanting 
to all. I can now prove, not only that the race of man can- 
not be older than 25,000 years, nor younger than 20,000, 
but also that but one course of civilisation, and but one race 
of men, has existed, with which all others of Asia and of 
Hurope can be proved to be related by blood; finally, that 
in all but one reason and one moral consciousness is revealed, 
by which the Kosmos of the mind’s universe is constructed. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 
[Translation. | 25th June, 1855. 


The Jubilee of Boniface (who as missionary to the Fries- 
landers suffered martyrdom in 755) bas furn’shed occasion 
for an extravagant demonstration of hierarchical arrogance. 
In the last place, simultaneously with that, has the well- 
known Professor Stahl at Berlin—a member of the Hccle- 
siastical Upper Council, in a speech made publicly, and 
since printed, on the subject of ‘ Christian Toleration ’—so 
openly preached intolerange and persecution, that it seems 
to me impossible for a Protestant who possesses voice and 
pen to keep silence. 

I called upon all my friends, one after another: no one had 
time or inclination. Courage is wanting—all are sunk into 
listlessness and disgust. Therefore it only remained to set 
myself to work, and I have written ‘Five Boniface-Letters 
upon Intolerance and Persecution,’ which are going next 
week to the press at Leipzig, to appearin July. I believe I 
have been successful in the letters, and that the work will 
excite much attention. Ihave had much to read on the 
subject, to be armed against the hail of attacks that will be 
made upon me by Jesuits and Protestant zealots. You 
know that God has before now granted me the courage of 
faith, and that He will not refuse it to me on this occa- 
B10, . . . 


ir. 63] JOWETT ON THE EPISTLES OF ST. PAUL... 245 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. ] 


Charlottenberg: Thursday morning, early, 6th July, 1855. 

They say that after amputation one always tries to touch 
the lost limb, and continues conscious of pain in it. Thus 
it is with me since your departure. I look out of the win- 
dow after the boat to cross the Neckar—take up my stick to 
walk towards it, or make it clear to my mind what question 
I had to ask as soon as you should come in, accompanied 
by dear Emma’s face. But then I awake from the dream— 
yet thanking God that you and she should have stayed so 
long with us, and that though we part, your journey is toa 
homestead, country, and country people. 

I have made myself acquainted with that Divine work, 
the ‘ Heliand ’—i.e. early Saxon paraphrase in verse of the 
Gospel-history and doctrine—wonderfully free from the 
corruptions of Rome. 


To the Same, 
[Translation.] . Charlottenberg: 12th July, 1855. 

Jowett’s publication of the Epistles of St. Paul is a great 
event—his commentary capital and honest, with truly ori- 
ginal dissertations. He istheright man. There is so much 
work spared me. It will form an epoch: itis a masterly 
work, of great freedom of judgment, and of Christian wis- 
dom: the text of Lachmann appealed to—the English 
translation well-revised—there are paraphrases and philo- 
logical explanations—also excellent treatises. I am over- 
joyed.... 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


[Translation.] 


Coblentz: 6th September.—I arrived here yesterday, and 
was so very kindly received by the honoured Princess that 
I could not resist the suggestion to remain till to-day at noon. 
Therefore I shall travel and arrive with E., sleeping at 


246 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


Mainz, to be with you on Saturday. Prince Frederick 
William started yesterday for Ostend, and thereby hangs a 
tale of an excursion to a fairy residence in a beloved 
island, in consequence of a kind invitation, accepted and 
consented to by the King! Of course all in deepest secrecy ; 
but this morning I read it in the ‘ Kreuz Zeitung ’— a secret 
at Berlin! ... 

I send you Astor’s letter to read. It has deeply affected 
me. I had for many years wished for a renewal of our old 
acquaintance. J had bestowed much love upon him, and he 
had considered and acknowledged meas his guide. He now 
writes with real friendship. 1 shall answer him as soon as 
I am again at Heidelberg,—using ‘ Du,’ as of old. 


To Marburg Bunsen was summoned in September 
1855, by the wish of the King’s First Chaplain, 
Dr. Hofmann, whose influence sufficiently prevailed, 
against other powerful influences, to induce the King 
to command Bunsen to come to the railway station at 
that place on the day ‘and at the hour when His 
Majesty intended to rest and dine there—in the 
manner called incognito, that is, not with the entire 
Court and suite. The mind of Hofmann was strongly 
set upon a plan which he considered to be nearly 
matured in the royal mind, of making important 
changes in ecclesiastical arrangements and practices 
relative to parochial appointments and management, 
so as to relieve Protestant congregations from a great 
amount of existing trammels; and his hopes were 
sanguine as to the effect of the voice and mind of 
Bunsen in realising this project. Bunsen’s letter to 
his wife notifies his arrival at Marburg. 


ET. 64) ARRIVAL AT MARBURG, 247 


Marburg, in the Ritter, opposite the Church of St. Elizabeth : 
[Translation. ] Tuesday morning, six o'clock. 


Here I am, beloved !—actually at Marburg—on the day, 
or thereabouts, on which, 46 years ago, I left the little 
town, to try my strength in and upon the world; opposite 
to me, that dear church, in which I had preached a sermon 
two months before. Hofmann arrived at the same time 
with myself (last night)—Roestell fetched me from the sta- 
tion. Hofmann announced himself as coming to me this 
morning early. I have sent him the copy intended for 
him of my second volume of the ‘ Signs of the Times.’ 

The King is coming through this place on Thursday, alone 
in strict incognito; his suite (except the Queen) preceding 
him. He is to sleep at Frankfort. All is uncertain, but if 
he will see me, so be it. 


Bunsen made, as usual, the best out of the circum- 
stances; but the meeting was a painful one. He 
found the King aged and altered, and, few as were the 
persons present, they succeeded in preventing the 
King’s speaking to Bunsen, except in the presence of 
others, and the intentions of Hofmann and of Bun- 
sen remained no nearer their fulfilment than before. 
The hours of waiting at Marburg were, however, 
agreeably spent by Bunsen in walks and excursions 
in his former haunts, in the country round the pic- 
turesque town and its fine churches, in the society 
of his two chosen friends; and he ever after referred 
with pleasure to this revival of recollections and this 
retrospection, and exulted in the amount of distance 
and of ascent that he had been able to accomplish in 
walking; the tone of triumph in overcoming in- 
creasing infirmity denoting clearly as well as affect- 
ingly his perception of the decline of his bodily 
powers. 


248 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
(Translation. ] 23rd September, 1855. 


. Lam just returned from a trying journey [that to 
Marburg]. My ‘ Signs of the Times’ are out of my hands! 
—two small volumes, which have given me much pain, in 
contemplation of the misery and of the danger of the 
present time, but also great consolation. I hope that I 
have succeeded in rising above the flood of the personal, the 
accidental, the transitory, and in lifting myself out of vexa- 
tion and grief, and all that draws the mind downwards, into 
the contemplation of things higher than that which shall 
come toanend. Had I not already written the book from 
inward impulse, not to be resisted, to declare the truth, I 
should have been compelled four weeks later to have written 
it, partly in self-justification, and partly to answer the 
demands made upon me. It is not merely one hornet’s 
nest, but three that I have roused: the Ultramontanes, the 
Confessionalists of the old Lytheran party, and the Despotic 
party. But I have not written from personal motives, from 
passion and hatred—but indeed from love of the truth, of 
my country, and of humanity. 

As soon as I had finished the first correction of the printed 
sheets, I hastened to my friends on the Rhine, to read them 
to Arndt and others, and to search out and observe many 
more recent facts. Then came the wedding of Theodora 
with August von Ungern-Sternberg, and immediately after- 
wards a private meeting at Marburg, where I also saw the 
King on his passage. On the 1st October, I shall return to 
the old beloved work ‘Egypt,’ and afterwards to the 
‘People’s Bible,’ alone and without interruption. By that 
time I hope to have here the young scholar whom I need as 
my assistant. Brockhaus has made me an offer to publish 
this work, Meanwhile, Troy has fallen—I mean Sebas- 
topol. 


Er. 64] LETTER TO ANNA GURNEY. 249- 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] 
Charlottenberg : Sunday morning, early, 7th October, 1855. 

You know that Magdeburg wishes to elect me. The 
burgomaster, Herr Hasselbach (highly respected, but per- 
sonally unknown to me), has written me a preliminary letter, 
in the name ofthe town having so remarkable a history as 
that of Magdeburg, over whose gate stand the words 
‘Verbum Dei manet in eternum.’ I have reason to believe 
that my ‘ Signs of the Times’ have done this. God knows 
what it costs me to refrain from flying to the place of com- 
bat! Tobe, or not to be—is the matter in hand. 

Hee hactenus: all is in the hands of God ; meanwhile my 
heart swells with grateful joy, when I perceive that I am be- 
loved by my fellow-countrymen, and have gained a place in 
the heart of the German people. Everything now seems to 
me a thousand times more easy. 


Bunsen to Anna Gurney. 
Charlottenberg, near Heidelberg: 19th October, 1855. 


Your excellent idea of making a beginning of an Idzoticum 
(or collections of idioms) in Norfolk (which I wonder does 
not already exist) has given Dr. M. and myself great plea- 
sure, and we intend returning the copy to you with our re- 
marks, and the note for which we collect materials, The 
most worthy of discussion seems to me to be Meyer’s obser- 
vation respecting Seal, which he proposes to derive from 
sigil, Anglo-Saxon for suntime—compare Saul, Gothic Sol, 
Hel, joc, Jal, also the Anglo-Saxon Rune for Sol. 

Why don’t you come to see us in this charming and 
charmed place ?—Ever your faithful friend,—BuNsEN. 


250 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] 
Burg Rheindorf, near Bonn: 27th November, 1855. 

Yesterday you will have received intelligence from G., and 
will therefore know how I was detained a whole day on the 
journey, and that I did not arrive till Sunday, in time, how- 
ever, for the christening and the dinner. You cannot faney 
how pleasing and enjoyable all is in this place. Arndt was 
never so youthful as after the second glass of Tokay at the 
christening-dinner. On board the steamers I accomplished 
an incredible quantity of work ; here completed, in writing, 
the ‘God-Consciousness.”* I shall bring the first volume 
with me, ready for printing, and thus secure the appearance 
of the whole, please God, in May, 1856. I read aloud to G. 
and Emilia, morning and afternoon, to our common satisfac- 
tion. Yesterday I walked without stopping for an hour and 
a half, over the fine fields with G. and Hartsteim. Ever and 
ever do [{ think of you and all the dear and beloved ones in 

Charlottenberg. 


The object of this journey was to be present at the 
baptism of George’s first-born at Burg Rheindorf, 
near Bonn; after which Bunsen went to Neu Wied, 
to witness the consecration of a hospital for the sick, 
just established by the Princess of Wied; and a 
letter dated Neu Wied, 5th December, speaks, in 
terms which, however strong, were not exaggerated, of 
the great enjoyment of the day’s intercourse with the 
Princess and her excellent and high-minded consort. 


[ Translation. | 
Whenever it may be that I return home, be assured that 
* These were the beginnings of Bunsen’s work, Gott in der Geschichte 


(‘God in History’), now translated into English by Miss Winkworth 
(Longmans, 1868). 


ZEr. 64] ‘GOD IN HISTORY? + OBL 


I long to be there, with you and all the dear ones with whom 
God has so richly blessed us; although, or more literally, 
just because I have been so well off, on this winter-expedi- 
tion down the Rhine, I have no time or inclination to write 
to you all that I had so much rather relate! But it has 
been a fine and fruitful time, at Rheindorf and at Bonn. 

It is a soothing sensation that I experience, to be acknow- 
ledged by the Christian community as their representative 
and speaker in the most sacred concerns; and this fact has 
been from almost all sides declared to me in the most dis- 
tinct and satisfactory manner. The intercourse I have had 
with G. and with Brandis has greatly incited me to com- 
position ; and the new book has received its final modelling, 
is as much as possible compressed and circumscribed, and 
many a sharp point and hook has grown ont of it, by which 
to catch and fasten itself on the present state of things and 
on individual minds. 


Bunsen reached home after a journey which was 
rendered disagreeable by the failure of the steamer 
(owing to lowness of the water and thickness of the 
fog on the Rhine), obliging belated travellers, like 
himself, to have recourse to the diligence, which, 
under all circumstances tedious, was doubly so upon 
roads blocked by a fresh fall of snow. He was 
thus kept on the road through the night in much 
bodily inconvenience from the position and the cold, 
and shared fully the general experience of the need 
of that complete railway communication which is 
happily now in existence along the whole length of 
the Rhine. His state of health was not calculated 
to resist any shock, and he was seriously indisposed 
after reaching home, with an obstinate catarrh and 
cough. During the days in which he was detained in 
bed, the novel ‘ Soll und Haben,’ by Freitag, was read 


252 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


aloud. Of the interest which it had for him he gave 
evidence later by the Preface to the English transla- 
tion ‘Debit and Credit,’ published by Mr. Constable, of 
Edinburgh, at whose request the Preface was written. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 
| Translation. ] Christmas Day, 1855. 


How shall I describe to you my astonishment, I might say 
my pleasure in sadness, when, on entering yesterday evening 
at six o’clock the room closed throughout the day, then bril- 
liant with the Christmas tree, I was greeted by the soft 
organ tones to which I was accustomed on the Capitol, and 
afterwards in Carlton Terrace, sounding forth from a hidden 
corner the ‘ Pastorale’ of Handel and then the German 
‘Chorale,’ to which the voices of twenty children and many 
others, those of Frances and Theodore and Sternberg pre- 
vailing, intoned the Hymn itself! I could not help thinking, 
in the midst of these pleasing ggunds, of the fine organ en- 
joyed so many years, left behind in England with so many 
other treasures. But when I turned to ask whence came 

‘the organ now heard P to whom belonging ? of whom bor- 
rowed’? Frances met me with the card containing your 
name and kind greeting, and then the pleasure became as 
complete as the surprise. For the vrgue expressif was our 
own, and it was your present— your Christmas gift! After 
the greater part of those present had retired, we again en- 
joyed the organ and Theodora’s playing, full of soul and feel- 
ing-—to no one more delightful and surprising than to her 
husband. Then we had ‘ He shall feed His flock’ of Handel, 
sung by Theodora. 


In the early days of this year (1855) it has been 
seen that Bunsen busied himself with a plan of Bible- 
readings, systematically grouped, intended to intro- 
duce the reader to a better knowledge of the Sacred 


ZET. 64] HIS LIFE AT CHARLOTTENBERG. 253 


Writings. This with him was no new matter, as he 
had already in Rome considered the subject, and at 
the Hubel, in Switzerland, in 1840-41, had made 
out a Calendar of Lessons after the manner of that 
in the English Common Prayer Book, which he had 
always admired, as to the idea, without entirely ap- 
proving the selection. That the completion of this 
design should have been put off (till that date, which 
he was not to see, of the publication of his last volume 
of the ‘ Bibelwerk’) is matter of deep regret, as such 
a guiding thread would probably have been found 
more useful to the mass of those who stand in need 
of a pioneer through the Scriptures, than any of his 
more voluminous works. Possibly some paper may 
yet be found in which his own words may better 
explain the cause of delay than this present conjec- 
tural attempt; but in all probability his sense of the 
imperfection of existing translations, more especially 
those of the Hebrew Scriptures, caused his disincli- 
nation to make use of them, feeling, as he did, that 
to be possessed of a renovated rendering of the text, 
such as he could put his hand and seal to, was only 
a question of time, as to which it was the habit of his 
mind to grasp the whole, and leap to the conclusion— 
considering that as actually done which his mind and 
hand had clutched. The contrast was remarkable 
(and probably uncommon in the annals of eminently 
intellectual men) between the hastiness and impati- 
ence to seize the end and hold fast the whole, and 
that intense conscientiousness and laborious patience 
of working out every detail of linguistic intricacy or 
critical commentary, which those who observed, and 


254 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1855 


yet more those who worked with him, had occasion to 
note. 

The arrival of Dr. Kamphausen, in October 1855, 
as Bunsen’s fellow-labourer and linguistic secretary 
in the Old Testament translation, marks the begin- 
ning of a period of peculiarly unvaried and unbroken 
labour, when the two were daily in close conference 
from nine o’clock in the morning till twelve, nomin- 
ally, but in fact they rarely parted until the summons 
to dinner, at one o’clock, had been more than once 
made. Bunsen was always up early, after his wont, 
but busied with anything rather than Hebrew cri- 
ticism, to which he therefore went fresh after break- 
fast; and the last half hour before his early dinner 
was assigned to a walk on the garden terrace above 
the Neckar. After dinner, he played at bowls in the 
garden with his son Theodore, as long as weather and 
season allowed ; for he was well aware that such still- 
ness after meals as might end in sleep must absolutely 
be avoided, and hard it was duly to diversify for him 
the unemployed time, after newspapers had been des- 
patched, until he allowed himself again to work, after 
an interval of at least three hours after dinner. This 
time of pause was one in which conversable visitors 
were particularly welcome—for the influx of a foreign 
element was more efficient to change the habitual 
current of thought than the everyday household 
supply. But the experience of winter proved that the 
luxury of being entirely in the country, as was the 
case at Charlottenberg, entailed considerable privation 
as to society ‘when skies were dark, and ways were 
miry.” What in the fine season was a most attractive 


fET. 64] HIS LIFE AT CHARLOTTENBERG. 255 


walk or drive, entered not in winter within the com- 
pass of Heidelberg custom or estimate of possibility. 
The draught of wind experienced in crossing the 
bridge is encountered, proverbially, ‘ at the risk of life,’ 
and seldom was a meeting for conversation found 
possible without express invitation—which natur- 
ally belonged to the evening, and was an exceptional 
occurrence; the more so, as the winter of 1855-56 
was inclement. It was not often that Bunsen could 
venture to accept the kind invitations for the evening 
of his Heidelberg friends, on account of the custom-. 
ary late supper, between nine and eleven o’clock, at 
all times unsuited to his habits, and at present, in his 
already shaken condition of body, inadmissible; and 
thus the progress of time, which changes so much, 
was powerless to modify the nature of things, render- 
ing the dark half of the year, in his present situation, 
strongly and undesirably contrasted with the cease- 
less animation of existence in London—where, what- 
ever the topic of interest which at the moment 
occupied him, he had but to stretch out a hand in 
the direction of the right person, to obtain the 
desired answer to every enquiry. Often did he re- 
mark upon the rapid circling of life in a great capi- 
tal (London, Paris, Berlin), compared to the more 
sluggish movement of the current in places distant 
from the centre. 


Bunsen to hie Wife. (The day after her departure, on a 
visit to her son George, at Rheindorf, near Bonn.) 


(Translation. | Charlottenberg: Tuesday, 22nd April, 1856. 
An affectionate good-morning to my heart’s beloved! It 


296 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


was a fine day, that on which she travelled away. I placed 
myself at once at my desk (half-past four in the morning), 
and sought after the enigma of the Indian Chronology. In 
the afternoon, I had found it, and early this morning I have 
written it down... . 


To the Same. 
(Translation. ] 
Charlottenberg: Saturday morning, eleven o'clock, 26th April, 1856. 

I am just returned from the Castle, whither I went at 
eight o’clock with T to the great Mohl breakfast, of 
twenty-four guests,—in fine weather, by the Carmelite 
ascent, turning to the right,—trees full of nightingales, the 
air full of a shower of blossoms, the sky full of rain-bearing 
clouds, the Hardt Mountains seemingly close at hand. 

27th April.—I have had a capital letter from Dr. Haug, 
who will undertake the translation and explanation of the 
great Zend-Document, ‘The Wanderings of the Indians ;’ 
just that which in 1812 was one of my principal points in 
the plan of the projected Indian campaign; and now, in- 
stead of my having perish®i in the trenches (as I un- 
doubtedly should have done), God has granted me the 
opportunity to assist in raising the treasure, and to be 
enabled to enter the fortress! Deo soli gloria! I send to- 
day an extract of my ‘Indian Chronology’ to Max 
Miller, that he may correct my exercise, and then we will 
compare it with his result, which I had begged him to send 
me by the Ist May. 

I am deep in the Vedas (with Lassen), and learn in- 
credibly. Lassen is the man; but from my standpoint one 
can go further than he does. So much must be finished 
directly, before the Alpine tour. 

What must be, will be. All right! 





fET, 64] JOACHIM—NEUKOMM. 257 


Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 
[Translation.] 28th May, 1856. 

To express my serious conviction I have considered 
throughout life as my duty, even before Kings and Princes. 
Hatred and ill-will are both foreign to me—God is my wit- 
ness. If I am misconstrued, I must bear it ; I am prepared 
to endure the consequences. Without entire sincerity, no 
friendship can be maintained, and least of all, Christian 
friendship. ... 

It was a pity that you did not come yesterday evening. 
We had some very animated conversation (Dr. Fischer was 
also there) on Swedenborg, Jacob Bohme, Schelling, and 
many others. 

10th June.—The arrival of the great violinist, Joachim, 
and the presence of Nenkomm, have caused us a succession 
of musical enjoyments, most thoroughly delighted in. 

I am ever busy with the file on my Egyptian work, but 
it will go offin four days. The ‘ God-Consciousness’ pro- 
ceeds rapidly, and I have great joy in it. My wife will 
probably remain at home, but Theodore and I shall cer- 
tainly join you in Switzerland. 

Our minds have been engrossed by the solemn and 
sublime spectacle of the decline of Samuel Gurney. He 
was yesterday still alive (at Paris), but he is daily and 
hourly fading away, in full clearness of mind and conscious- 
ness of death: no complaint, no sigh, only looks and some- 
times single words of love and thankfulness towards God, 
and the beloved ones who surround his bed of death day 
and night. Is not that the bliss of heaven yet on earth,— 
that is, in the heart ? 

To the Same. 
['Translation. | 
Charlottenberg: Sunday, 29th June, quarter past five in the morning. 
(Jubilee of the Reformation in the Palatinate.) 

Through and above the sounds of all the church bells 
and the gurgling of the Neckar, the trumpet tones from 

VOL. II. 8 


238 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


the tower of the Holy-Ghost Church rise to my balcony 
with the soaring hymn, ‘Hin feste Burg ist unser Gott’ 
(‘ God is our stronghold firm and sure’), and I hasten to 
tell you how beautifully the festival has opened, with the 
finest summer morning, after days of sultry thunder- 
weather. Let us hail the glad omen with thankful joy ! 
Throughout adverse contingencies, that heart of the 
world, the dear, noble German fatherland, moves forward, 
and particularly this much-favoured Palatinate, towards a 
happier future. Peace and freedom are secured, and unity 
will follow, if only we place God before us as our aim. The 
town was already yesterday in festival trim; every place 
hanging full of verdure, and triumphal arches of foliage 
were raised as by magic before each place of worship; and 
at eight o’clock sounded forth from every tower the hymn 
of sacred freedom, the psalm of God-trusting faith. We 
were all in the garden to hear it. Later, the exquisite 
tones of Joachim, pouring forth the highest poetry of com- 
position, delighted us till late in the night... . 

That thought of Jesug transfused into his congregation, 
which combines the memorial-festival with the self-sacrifice 
of thankful love, is so grand, so exalted, that no form, and 
no want of form, can spoil it to the candid and devoted 
heart ; and yet has human absurdity converted the central 
point of unity into a focus of unholy strife, and a cause of 
the deepest division ; and has occasioned a confusion, which 
1517 revealed, but did not resolve. So will we thankfully 
greet the union which incloses in peace the congregations 
here ; and feel to be ourselves united in spirit with all those 
who seek God in Christ, and humanity in Christ. 


Bunsen to Klingemann. 
[ Translation. | Charlottenberg: 21st June, 1856. 


Many as have been the sorrowful events that I have 
known in life, few have gone so deeply to my heart as that 
which has befallen you, my valued friend! I know how 


ZET. 64] LETTER TO MR. COBDEN. 259 


you and your honoured wife feel the loss; and I always 
prized and delighted in the child which has been taken 
from you, with peculiar feelings of affection and satisfac- 
tion, from his first appearance. Now, that loveliness and 
those hopes are yours no longer! ‘But I take comfort in 
the belief that from the depths of your grief you will behold 
the height of consolation, and that your heart being open 
to all that is noble and good, you will apprehend bow that 
which alone is true, and beautiful, and good is contained and 
inclosed in the Eternal. The beautiful and the good, having 
become consciousness in @ human soul, cannot perish, 
even though they pass through the birth-throes of death ; 
whereas its fuller expansion on earth might have been 
menaced by much suffering and difficulty, from which it 
may have been the purpose of the Eternal Wisdom of Love 
to grant an escape by death. And, finally, love, like all 
that is true, finds its chiefest blessing in itself, and in 
the memorial, which remembrance builds to the early de- 
parted. o 8 % : 


To Richard Cobden, Esq., M.-P. 
Charlottenberg: 4th July, 1856. 


The Memoir* you have read was never intended for. 
publication, but was destined as a sketch, and to give ma- 
terials for such an European treatise as I thought ought to, 
be written in English, French, and German, and might 
really solve the problem proposed by the Peace Congress. 
For, to speak frankly, now that the authors of the two 
Memoirs have received their prize, they were each a failure ; 
both insufficient and unpractical. The study of their con- 
tents, the discussions, verbal and written, with the best 
authorities on this field which I could find in Germany, 
combined with my own diplomatic experience, had matured . 
in my mind a plan, the outlines of which I had frequently 
discussed with English statesmen. I am thankful to see 


* The Memoir was drawn up by Bunsen for the Peace Society. 
s 2 


260 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1856 


that a great step has been made in the right direction, 
through the principle advocated by Lord Clarendon, whom, 
as well as Lord Palmerston, I knew always to be favourable 
to the two leading features—arbitration and non-intervention. 
Politically, however, we have gained nothing. Poland and 
Italy, the two envenomed wounds of Europe, have been left 
as they were, and, moreover, Italy has become, more than 
ever, the unavoidable object of the next war resolved upon 
by Louis Napoleon, and which may serve for pacification. 
On the whole, therefore, I consider the standpoint chosen 
or the Memoir the same as in 1854, The introductory re- 
marks give the real results of the essays. As to the details, 
they were merely given as materials for a discussion; and 
all I meant to effect by them was, that the objections raised 
against the plans hitherto proposed might be removed by a 
plan of the nature of that which I had brought forward. 
Nothing is truer than what you say, that details often mar 
the whole discussion; the opponents attach themselves to 
these in order to discredit the whole. On the other hand, 
there are many statesmen who will not listen to anything 
when there are no positive points to give a practical defini- 
tion of the scheme, and who, however, are fair enough to 
understand such details as a mere indication of the possible 
solutions which would offer themselves after having gone 
mto committee. ... 

The marriage of our Prince with the Princess Royal is 
the only star in the dark night of the future. 

The miseries caused by the tyranny of the Danes in the 
Duchies are heartrending, and a shame to Palmerston. 


The Introduction by Bunsen to the Translation of 
Caird’s Sermon, on ‘ Religion in Daily Life,’ proved 
more effectual than any of his larger works in making 
him known and acceptable to the great mass of his 
countrymen in the north of Germany, and is believed 
to have contributed largely towards the enthusiastic 


r.64] LETTER FROM FREDERICA BREMER. 261 


reception from the public at Berlin, which so deeply 
affected him in September 1857, when invited by the 
King to the meeting of the Evangelical Alliance. 


Letter to Bunsen from Frederica Bremer. 
[In the original English of the writer.] 
Heidelberg, 6th June, 1856. 

In the high North, in the capital of Sweden, two or three 
friends have this past winter often met to read and medi- 
tate your late works, ‘Outlines of Universal History,’ * 
and ‘Signs of the Times;’ and I cannot tell with what 
earnest appreciation, what delighted joy. These persons 
have been an Englishwoman of genius, married to a Swede 
—Mrs. Louisa Norderling (born Drummond Hay)—the 
pastor of the French Reformed Church at Stockholm, P. 
Trollet (an éléve of Vinet), and she who writes to you, and 
whom you have kindly favoured with the name of friend. 
She, who has been your most grateful and delighted reader 
of the three, has undertaken to thank you in their name, 
and to forward to you their grateful respects. Many and 
many a time during the past winter have I, in the joy of 
my heart over these your noble and inspiring words, wanted 
to write to you and tell you our feelings, but I was checked 
by uncertainty where a letter would find you; and later, 
when I knew that your home was Charlottenberg, near 
Heidelberg, then I decided that I would go myself, and he 
the bearer of our respects, and of those of many more 
Swedes (statesmen and men of science), to you. And now 
I am here, on the way to Lausanne, tarrying only a moment 
in order to see you, to bless you for the good you have done 
me and many in my land, and are still doing. Yea, blessed 
are you to have been able to bring the brightest gems of 
philosophy, such as only the German mind can dig out, to 
the light and to the general mind, in a clear, simple, and 


* The title of the third and fourth volumes of Bunsen’s work ‘ Chris- 
tianity and Mankind.’ 


262. MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


practical way, such as only the English mind can accom- 
plish ; blessed in the rare harmony of your organisation- 
which enables you to see both the diversity and the unity 
of things of this world, and those of a divine necessity, 
ruling and developing them for the highest good, to do jus- 
tice at once to God and man. ... 


A journey to Switzerland was commenced on the 
1st August: and some passages from Bunsen’s letters 
to his wife (who had declined belonging to the travel- 
ling party, on account of the expected confinement of 
her daughter, the Baroness Ungern-Sternberg) will 
give an idea of the pleasure he enjoyed in the society 
of Madame de Staél and her friends, at the Chateau 
de Coppet, and the earnest endeavours he made to 
take in all besides on the way that might have been 
refreshing to mind and body, had but the vigour and 
elasticity of youth been present to counterbalance the 
evil influences of exposure to heat, and of irregularity 
in meals. The retrospect of this journey and of 
this year is painfully affecting, because it proved to 
be the period from whence to date decay and decline. 
From the succession of illnesses which followed upon 
the disturbance of the whole constitution, which took 
place after leaving Coppet, he, in fact, never recovered, 
although the soundness of his system enabled him to 
struggle hard and long against it. The undertaking 
was altogether an imprudence, founded on a calcula- 
tion of powers past, and not of those still existing. 
Bunsen gave way to the kind invitation of Mrs. 
Schwabe to join her on a tour in Switzerland; his own 
temptation to a journey being the opportunity for 
social meetings and intellectual intercourse, to be 


Er. 64] HIS VISIT TO SWITZERLAND. 263 


afforded by Coppet and Geneva,—and, further, the 
consciousness that his own habits of intense and 
continual application of mind and thought to engros- 
sing and absorbing subjects required a compulsory in- 
terruption, such as could only be produced by change 
of place; and he considered too little, or rather not 
at all, that, accustomed as he had been for a number 
of years to every ‘appliance and means to boot’ for 
the comfort and ease of travelling, it was not now, 
in his impaired state of health, that he could be fit 
to endure the miseries of the (now obsolete) Swiss 
diligence in the Dog-days. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. ] 
Coppet: 3rd August, 1856, half-past five o’clock, a.m. 

From the few lines which our good friend contrived to 
write from Basle, you will have known that the indissoluble 
portion of our bodies arrived there at eight o’clock (1st 
August)—not as a caput mortuwm, but quick and fresh, to 
recover yet more thoroughly on a charming balcony, not on 
but over the Rhine ;—and in the best hope of getting 
through, did we enter upon the Sweating-valley—for so I 
must in future call that crevice or hollow of the Jura, of 
which a portion from Moustier (that is, Minster) is termed 
the Miinster-Thal. From Moustier, the descent to Biel is 
unique of its kind in beauty. At every stage we were 
called upon to change our Beiwagen, or supplementary 
coach, and to await, in the sun or in a stifling room, the 
appearance of its successor. At length, in despair, we 
sought and obtained the coupé of the carriage first in rank, 
in which two persons would have had close quarters, but. 
which, we were informed, was reckoned at ‘ trois personnes ’ 
—the third being balanced rather than joisted in between the 
two first occupants. The body of the conveyance contained 


264 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


twenty-nine, At eight o'clock, at Biel, we rowed round 
the lake, in the last rays of the setting sun: Theodore 
sung ‘Es fangt schon an zu dimmern’—after which we 
had tea with its accompaniments, and went out star-gazing 
until half-past ten. Yesterday we proceeded over the 
surface of three lakes in succession, conveyed by two 
vessels, and a beginning of railway, with a ‘ Black Hole of 
Calcutta’ as Salle d’attente provisoire. By five o’clock we 
arrived in sight of Coppet and of Madame de Staél, who 
awaited us, and conducted Mrs. Schwabe on foot into 
the Chateau, while her carriage took charge of me—(a very 
wise arrangement, owing, I believe, to a suggestion of 
yours)—hereupon the full current of conversation set in 
uninterrupted (except by the necessary toilet) until half 
post ten o’clock. Anna Vernet was there, and Edmond de 
Pressensé ; Broglie could not arrive so soon. At six this 
morning I await Pressensé, who must depart at seven. On 
the steamer yesterday I observed a portmanteau with ‘EK. 
Schérer, Geneve,’ marked upon it; a Genevese to whom I 
spoke assured me it could,not possibly be the celebrated an- 
tagonist of Gaussen ; but I had observed a face which might 
have been Schérer’s, and I imsisted upon the fact being 
ascertained. Soon he was brought up to me—the man 
was Schérer. Thereupon followed a long conversation, in 
which I endeavoured to dissipate his doubts of the genu- 
ineness of the Gospel of St. John,—and I am not without 
hopes. We are to meet again at Geneva, whither I mean 
to go the day after to-morrow. I wish to spend there 
three days. 

Hight o’clock.—Now only the steamer is arrived—and 
Pressensé has departed. Here itis delightful. I feel strong 
and as full of life as ever. I hope to write much here; the 
first Chapter of the Second Book (of ‘ Gott in der Geschichte’) 
announces itself as demanding new birth. I have pro- 
mised myself not to travel between ten o’clock and three 
until cooler weather comes :—and thus I shall have time to 


Fir. 64] THE JUNGFRAU. 265 


write. I shall not go out of Geneva, except to Chamounix. 
Theodore manages everything for me. How often do I 
think of you all!—and that you should not be here seems 
incredible. Well! in less than three weeks I shall be with 
you again! and with all my pockets full of admirable 
historical anecdotes, too good to write. 


A succession of hastily-scrawled letters give parti- 
culars of hours (instead of the intended days) passed 
at Geneva—interviews and interesting discussions 
with Schérer—a visit to M. Tronchin at La Prairie—a 
journey to Chamounix, and a continual struggle 
throughout the time against ever-recurring attacks of 
illness, with unflagging cheerfulness, and the determi- 
nation to make the best of a journey which had been 
undertaken in expectation of refreshment to mind and 
body. 


| Translation. } 


Interlaken : Hotel zur Jungfrau, 15th August.—Before me 
lies the turf-flat upon which this village is built, the finely- 
modelled green hills forming two halves of an amphi- 
theatre, which just in the centre draw back to constitute a 
frame for the Jungfrau, which in the purest splendour 
rises in front. 0! that you were here, with your ever 
warm heart for the magnificence of creation, your keenly- 
discerning eye, and artist-like hand, and I with you as my 
Priestess, to gaze into the sanctuary! But altogether, kind 
and affectionate and amiable as is all that surrounds me, you 
are yet ever wanting to me everywhere, and those dear girls 
who are with you! Thedrive from Vevay across the moun- 
tains (Bulle, Chateau d’Cix, and through the Simmenthal) 
is the finest of its kind. That is the real Switzerland, the | 
pasture-land of the Alps, with cheerful, well-fed, well- 
clothed freemen as inhabitants (and handsomer than any I 
have seen in this country, except in the Haslithal)—the 


266 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1856 


effect is indescribable of the green slopes alternating with 
portions of fir-forest, stretching to the hill-tops,—below, 
rushing streams—above, the blue sky! But we are indeed 
making a journey as 1t were through the Abruzzi, supposing 
any human being ever thought of making one there in the 
dog-days. 25° Réaumur in the inns—from 27° to 30° on the 
road—in the sun 40°—and yet better everywhere than 
close to the lake. Here, in a cool room, with the glorious 
prospect, and a German band playing below, all is forgotten. 
Friday, the 22nd, to Basle, and Saturday to be with you, 
please God. 


The return home was effected as intended—but, 
alas! the frequent recoveries so hopefully announced 
in Bunsen’s letters did not hold good; and although 
he took food on his arrival with the ‘ first relish’ (as 
he said) ‘that he had experienced for many a day,’ there 
was no help but he must pay the whole penalty of 
over-exertion: and tke first fortnight at home was 
spent more in bed than out of it, under various and 
equally exhausting sufferings. 

14th September.—The following prayers were com- 
posed and used by Bunsen, on the occasion of the first 
of several family meetings with his son Ernest and 
his daughter-in-law Elizabeth, for edification in the 
study of the Gospels :— 


[ Translation. | 


(1 John i.)—O God, Heavenly Father, who hast reunited 
us here, after a long separation and many painful experi- 
ences, and assembled us in this hour for the contemplation 
of Thy Holy Word, grant us Thy Spirit, the Spirit of Jesus, 
who will ever be ‘in the midst,’ when ‘ two or three are 
gathered together in His name.’ Amen. 

Yea, Lord, Heavenly Father! we have gazed upon the 


JET. 65] EFFECTS OF HIS SWISS TOUR. 267 


Word of Life, which once appeared as man and the Son of. 
Man on this earth. Not ‘with hands have we handled it, 
but with the eyes of the Spirit we behold it in the contem- 
plation of Thy Word. We behold it in the world’s history, 
ever since the appearing of the Eternal Word in the form 
ofa servant. We behold it in the judgments which have 
passed over the earth, from the destruction of Jerusalem 
and the fall of Rome even to our own days. But, above 
all, we behold it in our own hearts, in the acknowledgment 
of our nothingness as of ourselves, and of the consciousness 
of our eternal union with Thee, who art Love eternal. To 
that end, grant us Thy Spirit, that He may lead us, not to 
self-chosen works, but to showing forth our faith each in 
his proper calling, after the way that Thou appointest to 
every one: not in the blindness of zeal, but in the lowliness 
of love to the brethren as Thy children, and in remembrance 
of Him who gave His life in love, to the furtherance of Thy 
kingdom, 

Thy kingdom come: Thy will be done, as in heaven, so 
also on earth! Amen. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[' Translation. | 

Charlottenberg: Tuesday, 16th September, 1856. 
My much-beloved! again I place myself (although with 
somewhat swollen ankles) at my dear standing-desk, to 
thank you for your letter, after having been able to work 
from six to eight o’clock sitting, by means of a writing- 
arrangement of your mother’s invention, completing a nice 
additional chapter to the close of the Egyptian volume, 
My supporters will not bear their heavy burden without 
intermission, as formerly ; and the whole house, and house- 
physician together, insist upon their having rest. So there 
is no help for the admission, that I set out upon the journey. 
into Switzerland yet fresh in life, and have returned an 
aged man, more on three legs than on two. However I am 
otherwise well, and since the day before yesterday have 

been able to write, that is, to compose. 


268 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


To the Same. 


[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg: 5th November, 1856. ° 
(Die auspicato, pro die auspicatissimo. ) 

These lines shall greet you on your birthday with your 
father’s fullest blessing. To have had you here renewed 
and heightened the joy of thinking of you, and was a re- 
petition and strengthening of the impressions, which I 
received and retain from the time of being with you in 
Burg Rheindorf, of your life and household happiness. 
You have a good soil and foundation in every respect; and 
the harvest-prospect will in no way deceive your anticipa- 
tions, if you continue true to yourself and to the resolves of 
your childhood and youth. To which end, may God give 
His blessing, on that solemn festival day ! 

Now you shall hear much that will please you, relating 
to myself. First, ] have never worked better. When I 
had finished the Egyptian volume and the first of ‘ God- 
Consciousness,’ I had to make a resolution, and I determined 
that the latter work should be printed between this and 
Kaster; and thereupon began Book V. I had in the 
Preface (the fourth that I have written, and which I have 
at last approved of) so completely plunged again into my 
speculative views and the fundamental idea of the work, 
that I was driven by irresistible longing towards philosophy ; 
and I followed the impulse, because only when thus urged 
can I create anything in the domain of speculation. It has 
succeeded, I have studied through Leibnitz and Lessing 
afresh, and have so amplified my two articles of 1850 
(leaving that which was written untouched) that they may 
enable any uncultivated mind to pass judgment upon the 
achievements of those heroes with respect to a philosophical 
comprehension of universal history ; and of what they have 
left to be done. I begin with an exposition of their reason- 
ing, supported by suitable extracts; the ‘ Education of the 
Human Race’ I give entire, merely leaving out what is 


JET. 65] PROSECUTION OF HIS STUDIES. 269 


purely historical, and what is unfounded (§§ 23 to 82), 
adding besides the two Sibylline leaves upon the Trinity 
and the Metempsychosis, which Guhrauer has so happily 
brought into speculative connection with the ‘ Education of 
the Human Race.’ Then follows the criticism—there was 
still much to be done! To-morrow I go to Herder, and 
then to Kant: as to the former I had scarcely anything to 
add, and not much about: the latter. Kuno Fischer, with 
his great amount of reading, is a ready helper to me: he is 
now writing his work on Kant. 

I shall be able, according to agreement, to give Vol. III. 
to the press on the Ist January ; meanwhile, I work through 
Book IV.,to be completed by the middle of January, in 
which lies the fate of the work, and the position of your 
father in the Christian world: last ofall, Book III., the 
Hellenic, for the recreation of the natural Hellene in me. 

My life is divided into two parts. From nine to twelve 
the Bible—thus is the wheel ever turning. Haug no 
longer works with us together: he prepares by himself 
Numbers and Deuteronomy, finishing them up to be read 
for my revision and final arrangement. Kamphausen also 
prepares alone Joshua and Judges: both will have finished 
in January, and thenI give them the four Books of Samuel 
and the Kings, so that by Easter the second volume of the 
Old Testament text will have been prepared, as far as Isaiah 
and Jeremiah, which close the volume: in these I have 
myself done all the preparatory work, and I let no one else 
touch them. Now, however, comes the principal matter. 
By Easter I shall have worked through the Pentateuch, 
and the Introduction, and written the ‘ God-Consciousness’ 
(I hope even sooner): thus I shall have the hours free 
before nine and after twelve, for I am busy with the philo- 
logical part of the ‘Bibelwerk’ only in the three hours 
from nine to twelve. The time and strength thus remain- 
ing shall be devoted to the ‘ First Part of the New Testa- 
ment,’ the Gospels. This was your proposal last year, 


270 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


and thus you shall have it announced this day, as a birth- 
day-gift from yourself to yourself ! 

Without the ‘God-Consciousness’ as a precursor, I 
should be at a loss to give my thoughts full utterance; but 
the two works together will clear up one another. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Schwabe. 
[Translation. } Charlottenberg: 12th November, 1856. 


I can now again work with the same ease as before that 
Swiss journey, and my work gives me vast pleasure. 

22nd November.—To-day I have finished those last 
sheets of the work of twenty-four years’ pain (‘ The 
Exodus’), which yet I love so much! and also ‘ Leviticus.’ 
Pray read the admirable 25th chapter, about the Year of 
Jubilee. What a grand view of the State as a congregation 
of brothers! That was indeed only to be carried out ina 
real community, to which the Jews could not attain: they 
fell asunder into clans, and became the prey of strangers, 
and were afterwards enslased by priests and kings. The 
Maccabees brought reality into the communal system, when 
they had made Judah free: and it would seem to have sub- 
sisted thus even to the time of Josephus. 

If one learns through the Old Testament to understand 
better the New, how much more the Old through the New ! 
I rejoice in your spirited sympathy, as well as in that of 
our wise friend Neukomm. 

Sth December.—The imperfection of translations hitherto 
made becomes more and more clear to me. The celebrated 
proverbial utterance, the dying profession of the Jew (Deu- 
téronomy vi. 4)—‘ Hear, O Israel! the Lord thy God is one 
Lord ’——should be rendered, ‘ Hear, O Israel! the Eternal is 
our God, the Eternal alone.’ The sense is very different, 
and the true meaning goes higher and deeper than that of 
the common and wrong translation. . . 

12th December.—D.’s expressions of his feelings with 
respect to death are very touching. He would make the 


ZEr. 65] CLOSE OF THE YEAR 1856. 271 


explanation of them easier to himself, if he reflected that 
the soul in itself shrinks not from death, because conscious 
of that being the necessary birth into higher life. Well 
did Jellaleddin Rumi say, ‘Truly life shuddereth before 
death.’ But in the soul the divine principle is as really 
existing as the natural; as the poet best of all says, 
Through God do the human spirits stand in connection with 
one another, not otherwise: and there (in God) only as 
spiritual existences. 

Apparitions 11 the common sense I consider an utter 
absurdity: but that one spirit in the great and eventful 
moments of the mner life (for instance, at the moment of 
expiring) may gaze in upon another, is a certain fact. 
That is the Scotch second sight. An anecdote in Niebuhr’s 
life of his father (the traveller) is remarkable. These 
things take place most commonly in the unspiritual con- 
dition of mere nature, for instance, nm dreams or somnambu- 
lism; but what is possible in the state of nature must be 
so also further and higher. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 


[ Translation. | 22nd December, 1856. 


The King has most graciously accepted my book, de- 
livered by Humboldt (‘God in History,’ vol.i.), but added, 
‘Ts there no letter forme with it ? ’—I shall therefore write 
to him to-day, referring to my letter in print... . 

Besides this work, I have earnestly considered the burn- 
ing question of Neufchatel; and by an extraordinary con- 
currence of circumstances, I seem called upon to quit my 
absolute retirement from political concerns of the moment 
—God be thanked! it would seem that my efforts in 
various quarters have not been quite without effect. It is 
terrible to think of a war for a mere point of honour, as 
a possibility in our times; but I hold firmly the belief 
that it will not come to a war, and that the matter will 
be arranged in the way that I at first proposed. Lord 


272 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1856 


Palmerston at the beginning did harm by inconsiderate 
positiveness of language, and by underrating the import- 
ance and seriousness of the affair. 

When I overlook the past year, with its joys and suffer- 
ings, its bright and dark passages, my mind rests with true 
enjoyment on the days in Switzerland. The latter half of 
the journey was disturbed by bodily indisposition; and 
then followed my illness and loss of time in consequence ; 
but now all this has retreated into the background, and 
the impression of grand and splendid nature which we 
passed through in friendly intercourse recovers its full and 
enduring force. I feel that I have entirely recovered from 
my illness, but I have entered upon old age. Tranquil 
uniformity and sameness of life and diet are necessary to 
me: in this quiet course I feel well, and in mind as fresh 
as ever. Wisdom consists (as Koheleth says for King 
Solomon) in knowing that there is a time for all things; 
but he would not seem to have considered that, as every 
age has its privations, so also even old age has its peculiar 
enjoyments, or, at least, might have them. Experience 
and memory are great treasures, belonging to old age. . . . 

Imagine that my married children have united in making 
me a great surprise against the New Year by the valuable 
present of a billiard-table! Up to the day when it came 
and was put up, I played daily at bowls in the garden with 
Theodore, (who had, without saying anything, meanwhile 
arranged the whole), but since then it has become too cold 
for bowls; and thus the substitute has arrived exactly at 
the right time. You know, that for almost forty years 
without exception we have, alone in our home-circle, sat 
up to await the year’s beginning, with choral-singing and 
other solemn music, and in serious conversation with pauses 
between. ‘This time we shall also do so, but without the 
dear Sternbergs (as Theodora has the influenza), but they 
will be with us in spirit, and you also: is it not so? Now 
farewell, dear friend, and receive my heart’s thanks for all 


Er. 65] THE NEW YEAR. _ 273 


the kindness and friendship which you have shown me in 
this departing year! God bless you, and your house so 
rich in blessings, abundantly in the new year! To all, 
including the all-beloved Neukomm, my heartiest greetings, 

lst January, 1857.—Again, all hail and blessing for the 
new year! I shall begin the working-day with ‘In the 
beginning God created heaven and earth.’ O might I be 
found worthy yet, ere the departure of this year, to write 
‘In the beginning was the Word!’ I fully purpose doing 
this; but may God’s will be done, by us, or in spite of us! 


VOL. II. T 


274: MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN.  - [1857 


CHAPTER XVIII. 
LAST VISIT TO BERLIN. 


DECLINING HEALTH —— NEUFCHATEL — ARTICLE ON LUTHER — ENERGETIC 
WORK — LETTER TO MR. HARFORD— LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF 
ARGYLL — VISIT FROM MR. ASTOR— VISIT TO BERLIN-——LETTER FROM 
THE KING OF PRUSSIA—-THE EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE AT BERLIN. 


THE notice taken by Bunsen of his bodily condition, 
in the extracts of letters that have been given, is 
marked by an increasing desire to make the best of it, 
and believe it as much a state of convalescence as he 
desired and needed that it should be; but the period 
of irretrievable disorder had arrived, through which 
only energy such as his could have effected the amount 
of work which he still accomplished. After seemingly 
getting rid of the combination of catarrh and gastric 
affection which he brought with him from the journey 
into Switzerland, being many times ‘ well again’ and 
at his desk, and then disabled afresh, yet struggling 
on to keep his assistants at work (now two in number, 
for Dr. Haug was engaged in addition to Dr. Kamp- 
hausen), even when his own work of free composition, 
or of writing his commentary to the Bible, was neces- 
sarily suspended—he was, in January 1857, seized 
with lumbago, an evil previously experienced at 
Rome, Munich, andin London. In these cases, how- 
ever, it was dismissed with comparative ease: in 
Rome, by the use of leeches; in London, by that of 


ZEr. 65] HIS DECLINING HEALTH. 275 


vapour-baths. But this time the suffering was as 
obstinate as it was intense; and he had first to learn 
what was implied by sleepless nights, thus first tast- 
ing the cup of bitterness which he was to drink to 
the very dregs in his last illness. Cupping and blis- 
tering (under the friendly direction of Professor 
Chelius) proved unavailing to diminish pain, but 
probably helped to originate that swelling of the legs, 
at first, and for two years more, very slight, which so 
miserably increased in the last six months of life. 
The attack of lumbago at length wore itself out; but 
not till the month of May had brought a steady tem- 
perature was he restored to ease and comfort. The 
baths of Wildbad, in August, removed the last sensa- 
tion of pain and weakness in the legs; and among all 
the sufferings that awaited him later, the torment of 
lumbago never returned. The engagement of his son 
Charles (Secretary of Legation at Turin) had been a 
happy event of the last summer; and after long de- 
tention at his post of duty by the illness of his Chief, 
Count Brassier de S. Simon, Charles obtained at last 
in January the necessary leave of absence, to receive 
the hand of Mary Isabel, daughter of Mr. Thomas 
Waddington, of S. Léger near Rouen, at Paris, where 
the venerated friend of both families, the Pasteur 
Valette, with the eloquence of truth and love, solemn- 
ised their life-union. The young couple travelled to 
their own home at Turin, by way of Bonn and Heidel- 
berg, in which latter place their visit proved most 
cheering to the suffering father, who, on their first 
arrival, was entirely confined to his bed, but became 
better able to enjoy their company before they were 

. T 2 


276 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


bound to proceed on their journey. To behold a fourth 
marriage among his sons, and the establishment of 
family happiness in the case of this much-prized and 
highly-deserving son, removed by circumstances fur- 
ther than any other from the habits and comforts of 
either of his home-countries, was matter of devout 
thankfulness to Bunsen, who was radiant in satisfac- 
tion at the providential granting of this very earnest 
wish of his heart. 

During these months of confinement to his library, 
the pleasure he took in two canary-birds, which de- 
lighted to leave their cage and fly about, is strongly 
impressed on the memory of those who hailed his 
capacity of relaxation of mind. A cocoa-nut chalice, 
chased in silver (the gift of Lord Shaftesbury and 
other friends in 1842, in memorial of the Jerusalem 
Bishopric), always stood ready filled with fresh water, 
on a table before a mirror; and there he enjoyed see- 
ing the birds perch and drink, and to watch their 
surprise at their own reflection. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 


(Translation. | : 8th January, 1857. 

History must pass judgment upon every man, after his 
day’s work has been completed, that is, after his death ; but 
most certainly Cobden has proved himself, even to the con- 
temporary world, upright and high-minded as a man, a 
statesman, and a citizen, with a rare union of Insight with 
force of will. I have been for a long time greatly taken up 
with the affair of Neufchitel. Write to your inquiring 
friend :—the King was, in the opinion of Bunsen, perfectly 
right to demand, as preliminary to a direct negotiation, 
that Switzerland should abstain from sitting in judgment 


Er. 65] THE NEUFCHATEL AFFAIR. 277 


upon those whose conduct was justified, not only in his and 
their own eyes, but also in those of the Five Powers who 
signed with him the Protocol of 1852. But Bunsen knows, 
that as early as October the King had resolved to give up 
the sovereignty of Neufchatel, and acknowledge its inde- 
pendence. It is scarcely to be presumed that the Emperor 
undertook to act as mediator without knowing this, as well 
as Bunsen and many other persons, the Prince of Prussia 
included : it remains therefore to be explained why the Em- 
peror would not guarantee to Switzerland in his name, that 
after that conciliatory act on the part of Prussia, negotiations 
would be opened, on the basis of the independence of Neuf- 
chitel. That he refused to do so is afact. The article in 
the ‘ Monitewr’ was insulting to Switzerland, and reproached 
the Swiss, not for having refused to do what was right to- 
wards the Sovereign Prince of Neufchatel, but towards him, 
the Emperor. A different language, and acting in common 
with England, would have brought on the solution now at- 
tained a month earlier. Nothing is required but the neces- 
sity of self-limitation, which is the beginning of wisdom. 

18th January.—Since yesterday, I have been critically 
going through the translation of Caird’s sermon for the 
second edition, with Frances. Brockhaus writes that the 
first edition 1s as good as sold, and he wishes to print 
another of 1000 copies. I am very happy thus to help in 
your work of Christian charity. At the same time, Messrs. 
Black, in Edinburgh, have asked me to write the article on 
Luther for the new edition of the ‘Encyclopedia Britan- 
nica,’ This honourable commission to represent our great 
German hero to another body of Christians, and in their 
own language, cannot be declined. [have therefore con- 
sented to do so, and have set about the work. 


278 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1857 


Bunsen to a Friend. 


[ Translation. | 8th February, 1857. 

I stand again, for the first time quite without pain, at 
my dear desk, in the sunshine. Hundreds are skating 
within my view. The canary-birds have been transferred to 
my room, and they enjoy with me the sun and prospect. 
That was a bad fit of sciatica! I have lost fourteen entire 
working days, at least, for my compositions ; of those for 
Bible-conferences I have lost only six. In the sleepless 
nights (to me a hitherto unknown condition) I was able to 
meditate much: and thus, amid various (useless) tortures, 
such as cupping, for instance, and various (effectual) 
homoeopathic remedies, the time of recovery has arrived. 
To-morrow, please God, I begin work again. | 

Monday morning, 9th February.—I have had the first good 
night, and have been able to work a little at my desk. As 
soon as the cold gives way, I shall use a steam-bath. My 
two young people (Charles and his bride) rejoice my heart 
daily and hourly by the sight of their happiness and their 
animation. This evening, they go to a ‘ Museum’ ball, with 
the Sternbergs, Theodore, and Matilda. 

24th February.—At twelve our dear children will depart. 
Itis a truly valuable and richly-constituted heart with which 
we have made acquaintance; and we have new cause for 
thankfulness in God’s blessing. I have suffered much during 
the whole of this time from the sharp pain of the sciatica 
having gone down into my leg; but it is better, God be 
thanked ! and I have had to work hard, to make amends for 
time lost—for next Friday the Cabinet-Courier of the Eng- 
lish Embassy at Frankfort departs, by whom I must send 
my Lmther MS. (eighty closely-written quarto pages) to 
Edinburgh. Love to the incomparable Neukomm |! 


Er. 65] HIS WORK ON LUTHER. 279 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[Translation. | 5th March, 1857. 


I can to-day communicate to you, in confidence, a secret. 
The book I am preparing will be called— 


LUTHER ; 


An Historical and Autobiographical Picture, 
an Four Volumes. 


First volume.—Historical representation. 

Second volume.—Lather in his letters, confessions, recol- 
lections, and occasional outpourings. 

Third volume.—Luther in his reformation-declarations and 
writings. 

Fourth volume.—Luther in his Biblical sentences, writings, 
and hymns. 

You see that the three last volumes consist of Luther’s 
own words, but placed together to give an image of him, 
and accompanied by the necessary explanations and com- 
ments. All extracts and collections hitherto made are not 
to the purpose; they give no image, cannot be read as a 
whole, and are even in part unintelligible. 

The first volume is my own historical representation, a 
life description from the point of view of universal history. 
Tt will be in four books: 

I. The period of preparation and of arming, 1483 to 
1517, the first thirty-four years of life. Seven chapters. 

II. The period of progressive action, October 31, 1517, to 
the end of 1524. Twelve chapters. 

III. The period of suffering, and of executing learned 
works, 1525, till death, 1546. Twelve chapters. 

IV. Imther, a picture of character, in his various rela- 
tions—as a Reformer, as a writer, as a preacher, and, lastly, . 
asaman. Hight chapters. 

Now I will tell you how I came upon this, and how I 
have seemingly with such inconceivable quickness made 
the whole clear to myself. oO | 


280 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


The originating cause was Black’s proposal to write the 
article in the ‘Encyclopedia.’ But I had long known that 
no life of Luther existed, any more, or even still less, than 
a, collection of his voluminous writings (88 volumes in 8vo.), 
calculated to communicate the spirit of this man, unique of 
his kind, and to be generally attractive. This want I had 
felt in the working out of the fourth book of ‘God in 
History,’ in which Luther is, of course, after the Apostles, 
the most prominent character. It was not clear to me how 
I should be able to resolve the undertaking within the 
limits of that book. With respect to Christ, I could refer 
to my ‘ Life of Jesus,’ as soon to appear; but for the life of 
Luther, not even the materials he within the reach of the 
reading public. 

That was reason enough for my being glad and willing 
to write the article for the ‘Encyclopedia Britannica,’ and 
during the work the plan for executing the whole became 
clear to me. What decided me to the undertaking was 
that I should be enabled ta bring forward in the course of 
this work, in a more acceptable and penetrating manner, the 
thoughts and considerations prepared for the continuation 
of the ‘Signs of the Times.’ There is nothing of what I 
want to say that might not be, in the most striking man- 
ner, connected with the representation of Luther and his 
works. 

Therefore, I shall not continue the ‘ Signs of the Times,’ 
but close them, by a preface of about forty pages intended 
for a popular edition. 

Now came the necessity of convincing myself that the 
work may really succeed ; and, therefore, the same day that 
I sent off the article to Black (Friday in the week before 
last), did I set about it, to the inexpressible joy of my wife, 
who has, from the first, urged me to this work; and late on 
March 3 I had accomplished so much as specimen of the 
life-picture that I could present her with the whole design, 
and with that first chapter all but the close, on her birth- 


fit. 65] LETTER TO MR. HARFORD. 281 


day, at breakfast, March 4. Now I go back to ‘God in 
History’ without interruption, except from the Bible-con- 
ferences, from nine to twelve o’clock. 

I have, like a true German, expended 501. (whereas the 
article has brought me in 201.) for the necessary works of 
Luther and his biographers and commentators! Yet with- 
out these I could not have achieved anything as it ought 
to be done, for the Heidelberg Library does not possess the 
last edition of Luther’s works. Frances will help me to 
search through, and extract, about 86 volumes, in which are 
endless single gold grains of sentences, nowhere else to be 
found, because the Lutherans neither comprehend nor like 
them. She will attack the ‘ Sermons,’ while I shall in time 
(in the autumn, 1857) begin the ‘Commentary on the 
Biblical Writings.’ In six months, from the beginning, 1 
could get that finished. I shall offer Black the ‘first 
refusal’ of the work, as ‘a book for the million ’ in England 
and the United States. Noone knows what Luther essen- 
tially was! The whole shall be a reading book for every, 
even the commonest, reading Christian—please God! .. . 


Bunsen to John Harford, Esq., of Blaize Castle. 
Charlottenberg: 6th March, 1857. 


The day before yesterday your valued gift was put into 
my hands, and from that time to this evening hour I have 
done little besides reading the two precious volumes.* Let 
me tell you, that however much pleasure I anticipated from 
them, my expectations have been surpassed. Your work 
has transported me back to beloved spots and inspiring 
regions ; I have walked under your guidance through those 
glorious, although most melancholy, years of Republican 
Florence, displaying the aspiring religious mind of Italy, 
and. the wonderful development of the fine arts, and above 
all those two giants of genius and intellect, Michael Angelo 
and Raphael. You have prepared the threads out of which 


« The Life and Times of Michael Angelo Buonarotti, by Mr. Harford. 


282 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


you weave the narrative so skilfully and yet naturally, 
that it reads like a novel... . 

As to Michael Angelo’s patriotism, poetry, and philosophy, 
justice was never done to them before; and still nothing is 
truer than your statement. You have proved it convinc- 
ingly as to Platonism, by showing that without it you 
cannot explain his Canzone and Sonetti. As to his piety, 
it was certainly neither old age, nor love of the bright eyes 
of Vittoria Colonna, which first inspired him with religious 
feelings. Your memoir relating to her is in its proper 
place, and your readers will thank you for it... . 

I thank you particularly for having mentioned Valdez ; for 
it now seems clear that he was the cause of the conversion 
of Vergerio, and of many pious Spaniards. Something in 
proof of this has lately been published at Cadiz, and Dr. 
Bohmer, of Halle (a friend of Tholuck’s and mine), has 
discovered where papers of Valdez exist, and is sure of being 
able to get at them, if he should ever have the means of 
making a three months’ réSidence in Spain... . 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] 22nd March, 1857. 


There is a great movement among the Evangelicals in 
England, of every variety ; an admirable Declaration (by 
the Rev. Mr. Birks, of the Church of England, honorary 
secretary of the Evangelical Alliance), which might be called 
a Manifesto, or (as they call it) Confession of Faith, is said 
(by Sir Eardley Culling, who sent it to me printed, but 
marked ‘ Private and Confidential’) to have been accepted 
by the Alliance. There is a prospect of its being generally 
signed! but I consider it as too good. If it succeeds, the 
narrow party in Germany will be furious! In every case 
the movement is a good one, not only because it will be 
attacked by the Pope and others, but good in itself. . . . 

22nd April.—Rowland Williams has written a highly 
remarkable, philosophical, and learned book, ‘ Christianity 


Fir. 65) ‘CHRISTIANITY AND HINDUISM’ 283 


and Hinduism,’—being called upon to do so by another un- 
common man, Mr. Muir, late of the Bengal Civil Service, 
who had offered 500/. for a work which should in an intel- 
heible manner afford the Brahmins and learned Buddhists 
a comparison of those two systems of religion with Chris- 
tianity. This prize Rowland Williams has gained, by writ- 
ing a volume of 500 pages, which cost him ten years’ 
labour, from 1847 to 1856 ; which volume Muir sent to me 
and I received three weeks ago, just as I had worked through 
the self-same enquiry. Imagine my surprise, to find, under 
the form of a perfectly framed Platonic Dialogue, a repre- 
sentation more nearly similar to my own than any other that 
has been made in England or Germany ! 

4th May. . . . Meanwhile I must endeavour to regain 
t!. good graces of my friends im England. The author of 
an article in the ‘ National Review’ is of opinion that he 
can give no analysis of my work (‘God in History’), 
because the texture is ‘ too loose ;’ and he complains of the 
‘superficiality’ of some parts. The writer has read little of 
my book, and understood less, or he would have perceived 
two things,—1, that I not only know more of the matter 
than himself (what he knows is very little), but also more 
than the English writers who have treated the subject, 
whose works I have known these ten and twenty years, and 
recognised in them all that they contain of durable worth ; 
2, that I have brought forward no book-learning or detailed 
inquiry into subjects on which all men of study in Germany 
are agreed. As to the composition of the work, he might 
have been clear, had he but noticed the repeated warnings 
that I have given in many places, that it pretends not to 
treat of the Philosophy of Religion, nor to be a History of 
Religion, but of something very different. He evidently 
considers the ‘ developments’ as parts of the individual work 
—instead of lengthened remarks on the subject matter. 
When I brought forward new opinions, I needed to support 
them by new proofs; but wherefore should I prove what is 


284 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


well known and admitted P Had I but given the ‘ develop- 
ments’ in small print (which would have been certainly 
more practical), their purpose would have been more dis- 
tinct. Ewald, a rigorous judge, and a High-Church oppo- 
nent ina theological periodical, commends me as going deep 
into the matter—the reverse of ‘superficial’! ... 

All mine greet you, and regret that you cannot see and 
enjoy the magnificence of the blossoming trees and flowers 
on our hill and on our way to the Castle—the chestnut-trees, 
the lilacs. My wife and I are reading the ten volumes of 
‘ T’ Histoire de ma Vie,’ of George Sand—a wonderful book, 
which has been lent us. That woman has a deep, and, I 
think, a true, soul, and she is a disciple of Lamennais, as 
well as of Leibnitz, to whom she remains faithful. She is 
said to be ugly—which isa pity ; but as the Swabian wisely 
said, ‘ Unpleasant it is, butno sin.” The Rajah of Sarawak 
(Brooke) has again proved himself a hero, which I always 
considered him to be. It isa black sin of those who have 
been misled by Hume to attack that man as an enemy. 

24th May.—When a Ministry, a Parliament, a Nation, 
shows itself ever ready to follow good advice from Cobden, 
why should the whole public dissent from his opinion 
about Sir J. Brooke, if he really was in the right? You see 
from this, that m public life one must take political cha- 
racters as they are; one may hold different opinions as to 
their views, and yet honour them as men, and love them 
as human beings. But such a character is not to be con- 
verted, and as little can public opinion be changed ; only 
God can do that,—and Time, which judges all things, 

12th May.—To-day I am brisk and without pain, and have 
climbed to the upper terrace, twice resting by the way ; and 
in returning I almost ran down the hill. The Russian 
baths do me good. 


2x. 65] VISIT OF MR. ASTOR. 985 


Bunsen to a Daughter-in-Law. 
Charlottenberg: 15th May, 1857. 


I have entered into the greatest work and undertaking 
of my life, and begin to earn the fruits of much labour. I 
cannot move, unless forced, befure April 1861. The first 
free spring shall belong, if it please God, to England; the 
first free winter, to Mentone, or some such place. But the 
work to be done in the meantime is very great, although 
the hardest is over; and after Whit Sunday I shall be en- 
tering into smooth water, coming into regions where I have 
been before. It gives me now indescribable delight to write 
the ‘Introduction,’ in which I show, by copious specimens 
and self-evident examples, what is intended, and how much 
and how important that 1s. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
| 1ranslation. | 16th July, 1857. 

The intelligence of the preparation for the closing scene 
of our beloved and honoured friend Neukomm is very 
solemn—it confirms all my former apprehensions. 

Dr. Theodore Bunsen has obtained the highest academical 
honours—/first class—which no one had obtained, in the 
memory of man, in his branch of study (Political Economy 
and History), and altogether, no one in the whole philoso- 
phical faculty for many years in Heidelberg. 

Astor and family are to arrive on the 21st August; he 
embarks at New York on the oth, and travels straight to 
Heidelberg. Therefore, we shall go to Wildbad on the 
28th of this present month, that I may have completed my 
twenty-one baths before the 20th August. 

The only MS. of the Latin translation of the Old Testa- 
ment by Jerome (of the year 541) which has not been 
corrupted, is at Florence, and a collation of it for me is 
being made by Dr. Heyse, which is to be completed by 
September 10. 

Wildbad: 16th August.—The bath and the heat of the 


286 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


weather have so relaxed me that I find days and weeks pass 
as in a dream, and I feel as if I had done something enor- 
mous when I have corrected and expedited a sheet of the 
‘ Bibelwerk’! But the bathing has done me good decidedly, 
although I can stand itno longer. On Wednesday, the 19th, 
we shall set out early homewards, and at four o’clock the 
same day Dr. Kamphausen is appointed for a closing con- 
ference; on the 20th he leaves Heidelberg, for a three 
weeks’ tour of refreshment. 

Here it is indescribably beautiful, and should I be obliged 
again to go to a bathing place, it should certainly be Wild- 
bad. Excursions into the Forest are charming, the air is 
of the sort that I enjoy, the baths are most beneficial. We 
have met some friends here; Miss Wynn has just left us. 
Eliza Gurney, the American Quaker, widow of John Joseph 
Gurney, came here to see us, and we had a very fine and 
solemn day in her company. She had been at Berlin, and 
was admitted to see the King, to ask and obtain from him 
exemption from military service for a Quaker youth. 

30th August.—I have been expecting Astor daily, and at 
last he arrived yesterday evening, at the same time with the 
Prince of Wales. Astor’s faithful attachment to me, and 
the impression we receive of his excellence, give us true 
pleasure. 

To the Duchess of Argyll. 


Heidelberg: Ist July, 1857. 


My prak Ducurss,—This is the morning of the fortieth 
anniversary of my wedding. Full forty years lie before me 
of as unmixed happiness as mortal can bear, passed hand in 
hand with one who would have made a paradise to me out 
of a desert, and now stands by my side, well and happy in 
our quiet and retired, but neither idle nor solitary, life. 
We are surrounded, near and far, but all within reach, by 
ten children, and, as.yet, thirteen grandchildren, all happy ; 
together with four daughters-in-law and two sons-in-law, 
all united with us as if they were our own children; all 


#Eir. 65] LETTER TO THE DUCHESS OF ARGYLL. 287 


doing well in life, and attached to each other. Is it not 
a day to be thankful for, my dear Duchess? Nobody 
can appreciate that better than yourself, and nobody will 
believe more easily than you, that on such a day our heart 
is turned towards the friends whose kindness and affection 
have accompanied us through our pilgrimage. Your letter 
received last week has heaped fiery coals upon my head ; 
still I left them burning there, having firmly resolved 
to celebrate my platina wedding (as I call it, being 
between the twenty-five years of the silver and the fifty 
years of the golden wedding) by beginning the da¥ (it is 
now five o’clock) with these words addressed to you. It 
was only at seven o’clock last night (when I drove to the 
station to receive my Emiha well and strong, and moving 
about as freely as any of us) that I finished, as I had pro- 
posed, the Introduction to my ‘ Dibelwerk,’ to go to the press 
to-day, to appear by September 15, as the first of many 
volumes. . . . This work, perhaps the greatest, at 
all events, the most responsible, literary enterprise of the 
age, vowed in 1817, and again (after some preparatory 
work) at the time of my great illness in 1821, at Rome, 
and since prepared and composed ‘im silentio et spe,’ in 
great part, in ever dear England, particularly in 1850, 
when I wrote the ‘ Life of Jesus,’ was taken in hand soon 
after I had settled on these beautiful banks of the Neckar, 
first together with my ‘Egypt,’ and the ‘ Signs of the Times,’ 
and my book, ‘ God in History,’ and since has occupied my 
whole mind and time. Its magnitude overwhelmed me, 
when I perceived what it could not help attempting to 
be, to such a degree, that I resolved to throw aside for 
some months all other thoughts and occupations until 
that first volume, with its declaration in front, was 
secured. Itis only thus that I have sometimes been able 
to carry by storm a subject which otherwise would never 
have been mastered. Receiving and reading such letters 
as yours, my dear Duchess, is the greatest comfort and 


288 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


solace in such a state of mind—but answering them 1s 1m- 
possible. Only since last night could I tell you that the 
work is done. I have mastered it by having accomplished 
the first volume, for the work has been written backwards, 
so as to enable me to word safely and unhesitatingly the 
Introductory Address to the Christian People, or, as we call 
it in German, die Gemeinde. I have now only to hope to 
live (as I think I shall) to Easter 1861, when the last 
volume, the ‘Life of Jesus and the Eternal Kingdom of 
God,’ will be ont. . .. 

It may be said that we (in Germany) have been at this 
work (of revising the translation of the Bible) for 87 years, 
say 100; for in 1770, Michaélis at Gottingen published his 
great Translation and Commentary of the Old Testament, 
and yet the German nation has still the least correct of all 
Bible translations, although marked by the greatest genius, 
and in spite of unparalleled exertions made by our men of 
learning to effect a revision for the people. But as to 
England, it is more than 100 years that you have given up 
all really serious exegetical study of the Bible. Jowett’s 
and Stanley’s and Alford’s works are, however, excellent 
beginnings—at least, as fir as the New Testament is con- 
cerned, I think there are 3,000 passages requiring correc- 
tion in Iuther’s translation, and not more than 1,500 in 
the English, Dutch, and French—the three best ever yet 
made. Still 1,500 is a great deal in a volume where every 
word ought to be sacred! Only such ignorant talkers as 
can speak as though a more correct translation would 
not of itself open a new light to the Christian world! No- 
body can change the language of our Bibles, nor their 
groundwork; the precious metal requires only rubbing. 





To a Son. 
[Translation.] Charlottenberg: 25th August, 1857. 


. . . Here do I stand, on my sixty-sixth birthday, once 
more (after my return from Wildbad) at my old’ beautiful 


JET. 66] ARRIVAL OF ASTOR. 289 


desk, in my beautiful Charlottenberg, in the finest summer 
weather—after having closed, yesterday evening, the re- 
vision of my Introduction to the ‘ Bibelwerk ’—expecting 
Astor every hour! What will his visit bring ? 


Bunsen was eager to hasten back from Wildbad, 
hoping for the promised visit from Astor rather 
earlier than it actually took place. The meeting was 
most soothing to his feelings, in every respect except 
‘that of being only a meeting, and not such a visit of 
days and weeks as would have been a thorough 
renewal of intercourse and interchange of thought 
and opinion. Mr. Astor had promised his wife and 
granddaughter a tour in Germany and Italy, and his 
time was narrowly measured out in each resting- 
place: but few as were the days granted to Heidel- 
berg, they were sufficient to leave an enduring im- 
pression of satisfaction as to the lasting character of 
the attachment between the long-separated friends 
and in the new acquaintance formed with Mrs. Astor, 
and the young lady (now Mrs.: Winthrop Chanler)— 
whom it was really tantalising to have seen and con- 
versed with only during short hours, and then to 
part from for life!— although better hopes were at 
the time entertained, as Miss Margaret Astor Ward 
enjoyed so enthusiastically the manifold objects of 
interest offered to her eagerly-grasping mind in 
Kuropean countries, that she then promised herself 
and others to persuade her grandfather to repeat 
his journey the very next year. 

Soon after the rapid passage of Astor, a visit from 
Mr. Monckton Milnes, now Lord Houghton (a valued 
friend, whenever met—in Rome, 1833-35, or in 


VOL. IT. U 


290 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


London, 1839-54), contributed to the bright and 
summer-like character of this portion of Bunsen’s 
life, when his health was for a time in a condition 
of comfort from the joint effect of a steadily warm 
season and of the beneficent springs of Wildbad. 
And now followed an important event, in a summons, 
from the King’s own hand, to Berlin, to be present at 
the meeting of the Members of the Evangelical Alli- 
ance. The possibility of being called to Berlin had 
been, with reason, contemplated by Bunsen for the last 
year, and the result of his meditations had always 
been, that in such a case he would be bound to solicit 
permission to decline the call, on the ground of the 
pronounced infirmity of his health. But the wording 
of this letter so clearly signified that the Royal writer 
could not be satisfied without seeing Bunsen again, 
could not bear to know that he was absent where the 
interests of religion were to be discussed,— and, in 
short, so completely coastituted an appeal from a 
friend to a friend, ending with an expression to the 
effect of ‘You will surely not refuse to be the guest 
of an old friend in his own house! ’—that it was 
impossible not to yield to the will so affectionately 
intimated, although all indication of an especial 
purpose to be carried out by the journey was wholly 
wanting. Bunsen’s presence at the meeting was 
but that of a spectator, not belonging to the Evan- 
gelical Alliance, of which he would gladly have be- 
come a member, had they but been willing to adopt 
the ‘Confession of Faith’ sent him in March last 
and fully approved of by Bunsen (see p. 282). As it 
waa, he was obliged to decline becoming a member 


JET. 66] HIS RECEPTION AT SANS SOUCTI. ~ 291 


of it. He went, therefore, to Berlin ‘ pour faire acte 
de présence:’ with an inward determination not to 
leave the opportunity unused, but to ask an audience 
for the purpose of bringing before the Royal mind, 
with more urgency than ever, the crying evils of the 
present police-government in matters of conscience. 
The extracts which follow, from the abundant com- 
munications which his affection prompted, sufficiently 
tell the tale of that consolatory visit which shed an 
unhoped for gleam over the close of the remarkable 
and unparalleled connection with Frederick William 
IV., of precisely thirty years’ duration—as the two 
minds ‘met and united’ on the 15th October, 1827. 
These three weeks at Berlin proved a thoroughly 
happy time to Bunsen, in the enjoyment of the society 
of friends, and of objects of art and science, besides 
the chief gratification of all,—the consciousness of 
possessing his old place in the affections of the King, 
as to whose near-approaching decay of mental powers 
he was fortunately spared any feeling of presage. 
During those dinner-receptions, described in the fol-~ 
lowing extracts, the King must have been brilliant 
in conversation to the full degree observable in his 
best years, and his memory for every possible detail 
relating to his stay in Rome in 1828 as accurate as 
ever, even though instances would occur of his asking 
for help when seeking in vain after a name or an 
expression wanted to complete the utterance of some- 
thing that concerned the present. After the dimner 
at Sans Souci an utterance of the King’s was often 
alluded to and commented upon by Bunsen with 
deep emotion. Having risen from table, he stood 
U2 


292 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


with Bunsen at the window, looking out upon the 
prospect, bathed in the rays of the declining sun, 
which were caught and refracted by the innumerable 
fountains, amid a wilderness of flowers and orange- 
trees, beyond which woods and expanse of water 
stretched to the horizon. Bunsen commented upon 
the surpassing beauty of the assemblage of objects 
before him,—and the King replied meditatively, 
‘Yes, this 7s beautiful; and this prospect it is to 
which I and my Elise (the Queen) cling more fondly 
than to any other spot—and yet, this too we must 
leave!* A week later, on the 8rd October, the 
mortal stroke fell upon him!—although for three 
years longer he was to drag on a wretched body of 
death, before it ceased to breathe. 

Bunsen was accompanied homewards, on the 4th 
October, as far as Frankfort, by his son George, and 
there was met by his wife and daughter. 

Here follows a trazslation of the autograph letter 
of King Frederick William IV. to Bunsen (the last 
ever received from that gracious hand)—the tran- 
script having been found in a letter from Bunsen to 
one of his sons. 


King Frederick William IV. to Bunsen. 


Sans Souci: 5th September, 1857. 

My DEAREST Bunsen,—I express to you my heartiest 
thanks for all the great trouble you have undertaken and 
carried through with such splendid results (to my honour) 
for the Schlagintweits. For all this, and for so many 
letters, most interesting to me, I am in heavy debt to you: 
but time is wanting in a frightful manner to me for answer- 
ing you as I ought and desire todo! I write to you only 


JET, 66] THE KING’S LETTER TO BUNSEN. 293 


on account of a matter which I have at heart beyond all 
expression, and that is your appearing at Berlin during the 
Assembly of the Evangelical Alliance. I wish that, urgently 
and longingly, first for the sake of the thing itself, secondly 
for the sake of your good name, thirdly for my own sake :— 
you must once more show yourself outside the limits of 
that narrow circle (becoming ever more and more sus- 
picious) in which you now exclusively live! 

You must inhale fresh air of life—the breath of that life 
which alone is life, because it is the essential life proceeding 
from the one essential source of life. You must inhale this 
breath of life, there, where a yet unheard of mass of joyful 
confessors will assemble ; there, where it seems almost certain 
that a new future will be prepared for the whole Church 
and the entire body of the evangelical confessions. You 
must, by your appearance alone, stifle the malicious calumny 
which, in genuine German (especially North-German), 
contractedness of vision is beginning to raise against you, 
and to injure the holy cause of the Church. Thousands are 
watching for your non-appearance, to cast stones at you. 
That is what I cannot bear, if you by an error in conduct 
give occasion thereto. I conjure you, for the sake of the 
Lord’s cause, accept my offer, and accept from me, as an 
old and faithful friend, that I defray your journey, and 
provide you with lodging and sustenance in the Palace at 
Berlin, as my own peculiar guest! My commands have 
already been issued to that effect. You have but to lift 
your foot, from Charlottenberg to the Railway of Heidel- 
berg. That I at the same time hope, by this opportunity, 
to confer with you on much important matter, you will not 
take ill of me: and now, in the name of Christ to the 
work !—Vale ! 

(Signed) F. W.R. 
[ Received Monday, 7th September, at three o’clock a.m. | 


294, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


Bumsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg : Tuesday morning, five o’clock, 
8th September, 1857. 

. That is providential! After such a letter no friend’s 
invitation could be declined, and how should I decline that 
of the King, made in the name of Christ and of the father- 
land, resolved upon, clearly, in affection and faithfulness, 
and with such unheard of demonstrations of true friend- 
shipP I had never before been invited to lodge in the 
Palace at Berlin, but the King does this to gratify the old, 
heavily-laden man; it is also an unequivocal declaration 
towards the Court, the Town, the Country, and the World. 
Wherefore I go. 


Bunsen’s Letters to his Wife (the first written in English), 
from Berlin, 1857. 
The Palace at Berlin: Thursday, 10th September, 1857. 
Half-past two, afternoon. 

All right! a prosperous and interesting journey: the 
night in a great saloon carriage alone, comfortably bedded. 

Here all is in attendance: I had only just time to drive 
to the Garrison-Church for the meetin g, where about twenty 
speeches were made, in German and English, just now 
over. At four, Merle d’Aubigné is to deliver his great 
address. The spirit is very good. Sir E. Buxton is here, 
and lots of Americans, Scotch, Australians, Hungarians, 
&c. Itis a grand movement, indeed, which has been set 
a-going. ‘To-morrow, at six, the King receives the whole 
body of the Alliance. JI am to manage tq get permission 
for the ladies to have a corner somewhere. I shall not 
write to-morrow, but I shall, p.v., be with you in the 
middle of October. 


[Translation. | The Palace at Berlin—at the Apothecary’s, 
Friday, early, 11th September, 1857. 
My pearest Fanny AND THEODORE,—That. was a poetical 
entry, my ‘joyeuse rentrée’ into the Palace yesterday ! 


JET. 66] THE EVANGELICAL ALLIANCE AT BERLIN. 295 


Saturday, four o’clock.—So things go! I must break off 
the regular history, and relate that George came in to me 
at eight o’clock, glowing with light and love; and that at 
twelve the Falmouth telegraph announced that Ernest 
will set out Sunday night towards Calais, and hopes to be 
here on Tuesday. See, what rich and blessed parents we 
are! literally according to the Psalmist’s words. Thanks 
be to God! 

Yesterday was a great day, not to be forgotten. I dined 
with the King at Sans Souci, alone with Humboldt and 
the Court, to present the English at the great reception of 
the Members of the Evangelical Alliance, at five o’clock. 
The King entered the Hall, and came straight up to me, 
and instead of (as formerly) giving his hand, embraced me 
heartily, and then a second time, saying aloud, ‘I thank 
you from my heart, dear Bunsen, that you have fulfilled 
my request, and come here so quickly—-God reward you !’ 
Afterwards Humboldt told me that the scene had been 
observed with great astonishment. Ah! it is the very 
same dear royal countenance, and the same noble over- 
flowing heart: the kernel of hfe is not injured, but the 
signs of age are beginning to make their appearance. 

At half-past four I was at my post, in the New Palace: 
before the long front, and on both sides as far as the steps, 
were placed one thousand Members. 

I went to reconnoitre, in order to make a due report to 
the King, and first on the left wing came upon the twenty- 
two Americans, headed by the Envoy, Mr. Wright, of 
Indiana. When I addressed him, to offer thanks as a 
Prussian and a Christian for his fine speech at the opening, 
he took me for the King, and was about to present his 
countrymen: but | quieted him, and he said, ‘Sir, I come 
straight from the woods—forgive me: but I do love your 
good King. I am a Senator, and have been Governor of 
Indiana.’ I went along the endless row, received a thou- 
sand greetings, signs, and squeezes of the hand, and could 
assure the King (who was rather anxious) that it would 


296 - MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


all do admirably. Hardly had the King appeared, when 
‘ Lebe hoch!’ ‘ Hurrah !? ‘ Hljen !’ sounded forth thousand- 
fold from Germans, English and Americans, and Magyars. 
Mr. Wright made an address full of feeling. The King 
was agitated, almost to tears, but controlled himself, first 
thanked the Envoy in good English, then turned to the 
long line, and said, in German, ‘Gentlemen and Christian 
friends!—I am deeply moved by this sympathy. I had 
not expected so much. I have nothing to answer, except 
that my inmost prayer to the Lord is:—May we all depart 
hence, like the disciples of Christ after the first Pente- 
cost!’ ‘Amen!’ resounded from a thousand voices in 
front of us: and more softly, behind us, from the many 
English ladies, for whom I had obtained the King’s per- 
mission to be spectators, and whom he had himself gra- 
ciously received. 

Then I presented to the King, in succession, three Aus- 
tralians (natives of Germany), then about eighty English ; 
then came the Magyars, then the Belgians, then the Dutch 
(among them Cappadose, a converted Jew), then the Swiss, 
(Merle d’Aubigné), then the French (Matter-Pressensé was 
there), then those of the German tongue, and the Berlinese 
last. All made short and good addresses. At the close 
‘Lebe hoch!’—then sudden silence—the Germans had 
formed a circle, and as the King entered the portal of his 
Palace they burst forth with ‘Ein feste Burg ist unser Gott.’ 

The King gould not conceal his emotion. I hastened up 
to congratulate him. ‘God be thanked,’ he said, ‘ for this 
blessed day ! and what a pleasure that you are here!’ I 
went back (to Berlin) with the whole thousand ; right and 
left came one after the other, to wish me joy; ‘God bless 
you! Goon! Now you soon will come to England again.’ 
One came up and said, ‘I am not going to give you my 
name ; I am from Glasgow, and I longed to see that face 
again! God’s blessing upon you!’ I must go to the meet- 
ing—full as my eyes are with tears. Deo soli gloria! 


ZET. 66] EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOURNAL. 297 


[ Translation. | The Palace, Berlin: Monday, 14th September. 
(Humboldt’s birthday, and entry into his 89th year.) 

(Continuation of Journal broken off on Friday, the 25th.) — 
Arrived at the Palace (on the 10th). I sent for the Cas- 
tellan, who, with the utmost courtliness, conducted me up 
the colossal staircase, which leads to the apartments 
formerly occupied by Prince William. When apparently 
arrived at the summit, ‘ Now’ (said the consumptive Cas- 
tellan), ‘please your Excellency, we will rest a little; for 
now begins the ascent.’ That was most accurate. At 
length, however, we reached a splendid apartment of four 
rooms, and in half an hour I had recovered my breath, 
dressed, and came down just in time for the opening speech 
of Krummacher. My appearance in the royal seat in the 
Garrison-Church (whither I was directed) was not unob- 
served ; in going out I was greeted by many, and accom- 
panied to the royal carriage, which was in waiting. Then 
I wrote to announce myself to the King at Sans Souci, and 
to give him a first report of the speeches. In the afternoon 
again to the meeting, till seven o’clock. The evening I 
spent with Lepsius, who has built himself a fine English 
Gothic house. There I was as amongst -my children and 
grandchildren (five in number), all as fine and blooming 
as Horus and Isis, if not more so. Abeken was there too. 
The next day (Friday) they both accompanied me to the 
museum (of course the Egyptian), where I was hardly ar- 
rived when the King’s invitation called me to Sans Souci. 
The evening after the fine Union Festival at Potsdam 
(already described) I also spent with Lepsius. Saturday I 
paid my visit to the Minister-President (Manteuffel). I 
did not find the Minister of Commerce (Von der Heydt) at 
home, but he came in the evening, and spoke much of the 
present political crisis; he has been ill-used by the Cama- 
rilla, and has offered his resignation. I prophesied to him 
that he would remain what he is, and obtain the victory. 
Then came Sunday—the Prince of Prussia had arrived, 


298 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


and I, having three quarters of an hour before church-time, 
announced myself at his door; he kept me until within 
fifteen minutes of his train. He will stay here till the 25th 
or 26th, therefore as long as myself. 1 dined with Lepsius, 
where all was kindness and gaiety, and afterwards we 
played ‘ Boccia.’ ‘For this evening he has invited half the 
world: before that I am to plant an oak tree—a memorial 
for our grandchildren and theirs. On the way I am to see 
Reinhard Bunsen. The Emperor (Nicholas) is arrived, 
and stays till Tuesday. To-morrow and the day after, the 
six-days’ manceuvre, compressed into two, 1s to take place. 
The whole day the splendid regiments are in motion with 
bands before the Palace ; the first company breaks off from 
the rest, to fetch colours and the Eagle, with which in 
quickest march it bursts out of the Palace-gate, saluted by 
the remainder of the regiment. <A grand spectacle! which 
begins at half-past six in the morning, and fails not to call 
me out of bed; a row of acacias hides me, but I can see 
everything. (The acacias, limes, and chestnut trees are 
blossoming for the second time; they are selling cherries 
of the coud crop.) To-day, as aa between eight and 
ten I receive visits—whoever comes is welcome. At ten 
to the Museum, where Olfers showed me first of all, admir-. 
ably placed, what I had purchased or had proposed for 
purchase. To-morrow I go to the Egyptian Museum. I 
await (to go to Lepsius at six) my faithful George, who 
from morning till night watches over me. 

Tuesday, 17th September.—In coming out after the close 
of the Evangelical Alliance I received your letter. What a 
fulness of joy and blessing in all that you tell me, and, 
above all, in your love! Yesterday Ernest and George took 
much trouble about a silly intermezzo. Kroummacher of 
Duisburg (the brother of the well-known Krummacher), 
vice-president of the Berlin Committee, in a large evening 
assembly blamed Merle d’Aubigné for the offence he had 
given to the faithful, in publicly embracing me, I being a 
Rationalist and Romanist, &c. Merle made an apology, 


ET, 66] EXTRACTS FROM HIS JOURNAL. 299 


assuring the company that he abominated my errors, &. 
Schlottman (late at Constantinople) made a suitable reply ; 
but the irritation was so great, that the Chief Burgomaster 
of Berlin, Krausnik, and Schenkel, of Heidelberg, were 
called upon to compose an address, to which 800 signatures 
were at once offered; Schenkel, however, with much tact 
kept back the demonstration. I said merely, that Merle 
ought to make an explanation in the newspaper. Never 
mind ! 

To-day was the close; God be thanked! all in peace. 
The Prince of Prussia stayed also to the end, and came 
afterwards to me (I was with Ernest in the royal seat), 
and took my hand in sight of the assembly, and spoke to 
me for five minutes. As I went out, there stood ladies 
and men on both sides of the way, bowing and greeting me. 
I was much moved and abashed when Ernest made me 
observe this. 

To-morrow I dine with the Minister Von der Heydt, to 
whom I prophesied his triumph, which yesterday splendidly 
took place. I planted, at the request of Lepsius, a young 
oak in his beautiful garden. I held the tree, while the 
earth was thrown over its vigorous roots, in the cradle of 
soil prepared for its reception. Then a motto was de- 
manded (without which the tree would not grow, accoru- 
ing to German fancy), and I said, in giving the name :— 


Oak! I plant thee—grow in beauty ; 
Straight and firm and vigorous stand! 

Bunsen is the name I give thee — 
Flourish in the German land! 


For the House of Lepsius blooming, 
Through the storm grow fuir and free! 
And a shelter in the noon-day 
To his children’s children be! 


George then planted a Weymouth pine; motto, Wonne- 
muth (‘ Joyful courage’). To-day Ernest will plant his (a 
Thorn of Christ) on the way to the train—lomewards. 


300 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


[ Translation. | 
The Miller’s House, Sans Souci (dwelling of the late Count 
Stolberg): Wednesday, early, 23rd September. 


The last day was grand and fine, not to be forgotten. I 
had an audience,—‘a beautifully calm and yet troubled 
hour’ (as the King afterwards termed it), from a quarter 
past one till three o’clock. The statement I had to make I 
had written down in the morning, between nine and eleven 
o’clock, that there might’ be a minute of what had been 
proposed and debated. The King was quite as in former 
times, in the best sense—all his former openness and his 
own peculiar animation. I had brought everything into 
clear and distinct form, and such were also his replies: we 
understand each other fully. We had just finished, when 
three o’clock, his dinner-hour, struck. | 

To-day the General Superintendent Hofmann is to be 
here: and I shall not, till after the dinner, be finally dis- 
missed. 

To-morrow I wind up everything ; George accompanies 
me to Frankfort. He pleased the King greatly. On Fn- 
day the Emperor and Empress (of Russia) are to arrive. 
I, however, set out at seven o’clock in the morning on my 
journey home. 

You can form no idea of the beauty of these gardens ; the 
system of sprinkling showers of water upon them (as from 
the rose of a watering-pot) keeps everything in freshness 
of verdure and growth. When one ascends the nearly- 
finished buildings on the hills, to the highest landing-place 
in the tower, 100 feet above the level ground, one is asto- 
nished by the prospect; a fruitful plain with gardens, 
dwellings, churches, lakes, on the one side, and on the other, 
behind elevations of ground, the wide-spread city of Berlin. 
The sand is fast disappearing. What best pleases me is 
the Church of Peace, in memory of the time from 1848 to 
1850, with the inscription, ‘Christ is our Peace.’ It is San 
Clemente in every particular, with the atrium—all full of 


JET. 66} CHARLOTTENHOF. 301 


meaning and in good taste; an arcade goes all round, with 
views, between the columns, of the mirror of water, with 
splendid groups of trees—(which you would directly draw) 
——two side buildings join on, the one the abode of the 
Princess Alexandrine, the other the dwelling of the pastor 
with the school-house. Ina recess is a Pieta by Rietschl, 
the finest 1 know ; the mother is kneeling over the body of 
the Lord, which is the principal figure; the light falls on 
the countenance, divine in death. 

In the Pompeian house of Charlottenhof is a beautiful 
group by the late Henschen of Cassel—a maiden bearing 
water, and a youth who would willingly help her under her 
burden. The Castellan has named them Hermann and 
Dorothea. 

To-morrow I shall go again into the Picture-gallery, and 
the gallery of Casts. You are right im saying, we need 
from time to time the refreshment of the sight of works 


of art. Next spring you must take me to Nurnberg and 
Munich. | 


[Translation.] 
The Palace, Berlin: early, Thursday, 24th September, 1857. 

(I have obtained, at my earnest request, a room on the 
ground-floor—next to the apothecary’s! There was no 
other.) You know me, and you know Berlin,—and you 
will in the first place believe my word, that I had good 
reason for writing so positively of my departure even this 
morning ; and now again to announce, that I shall remain 
at least this week! So it is. The King had understood 
(from a letter of mine, in which there was nothing of the 
sort) that I wished to be gone—and he met me on Monday 
with the question, ‘ Will you indeed leave us already?’ I 
replied, ‘If your Majesty has no further commands for me— 
yes. Whereupon, when the King after dinner dismissed 
me, he added that ‘it would give him great pleasure to find 
me still here on his return on Friday.’ Therefore I made 
my visits of leave-taking :—and at Grdben’s in the evening 


302 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


(whither I had received a kind invitation) he said to me, 
the King had charged him with a message to me, that ‘if my 
business was not too pressing, he wished I should await his 
return, for that he must speak to me.’ I answered Grében 
with an explanation; and observed to him that the King 
had not yet granted me an audience. ‘ That he will do,’ 
replied Grében, ‘on Saturday or Sunday; at any rate, 
when the Grand Duchess Maria is gone.’ 

I have been well all the time, and enjoying the number of 
fine and grand works, and the company of men of art and 
science, which I have so long been without, and from which 
I had been almost weaned. George is delighted that I pive 
way to this impulse of the spirit. The friends outdo each 
other in kindness. Employment I have, more than I can 
master, in the Library ; most of the Museum has yet to be 
seen, and many distinguished men are yet to be visited. I 
have been to see Marcus Niebuhr—in a ruined condition of 
nerves ; he has a chronic low fever. Abeken’s kindness is 
indescribable ; the house of Lepsius is of all sputs here the 
one I like best. He and I] have worked much together, and 
I think to the profit of both. 


[Translation. } 
The Palace, Berlin: Sunday morning, seven o'clock, 
27th September, 1857. 


To-day, beloved, I was to have been with you, at latest : 
and as that is refused to me, I must make myself amends 
by sending you, to-day as yesterday, and henceforth daily, 
a greeting in writing, short or long, clear or unintelligible, 
but always true and warm. Yesterday I have indeed 
spoken with the King for the first time; and the requested 
audience is to take place on Tuesday, the day after to- 
morrow. Itis possible, but not probable, that that audience 
will be the last ; but, if not, certainly the last but one; and 
I shall go away before the arrival of the Emperor, on the 


2nd October. 


JET. 66] THE GRIMMS—BEKKER—ABEKEN. 303 


The dinner party at Charlottenberg had been arranged by 
the King himself, the Queen not having yet returned from 
Saxony. Humboldt and Grében sat at each side of him, 
opposite to him myself, with Abeken on the right and 
George on the left: the remainder were the aides-de-camp ; 
next to George was the son of the late Minister Count Stol- 
berg. When the dinner was over, then came the great 
moment. The King went into the recess of a window, and 
let Groben relate something to him—then he came towards 
me, and (following good advice) I seized the initiative, and 
reminded His Majesty that I had petitioned for one audience. 
‘I have every day thought of it,’ he said; ‘ but it was never 
Pees ’ * Perhaps to-day ?’ IT enquired. ‘ Yes, truly,’ said 
he, ‘ were it not that I must go with the Queen to the jubi- 
lee of an old actor, who to-day makes his last appearance. 
But it might be on Tuesday, at Sans Souci.’ ‘ Might it 
take place before dinner ?’ I enquired. ‘That would be 
best,’ said he; ‘ we will try to make it possible.” Witha 
few words I now indicated the subjects I desired to treat 
—and thus the ice was broken; I had an important pre- 
paratory audience in the window recess. The King’s 
heart met mine again; and I think I now comprehend how 
things stand. Thus did six o’clock come upon us, when I 
with George drove to the Grimms and Bekker who dwell 
on the same floor. Bekker, was at first not visible; and 
at Grimm’s I succeeded in evoking the soul of the house,— 
the wife ; she is full of life, and life-giving, though advanced 
in years. She told me that she had made Bekker not only 
speak, but laugh. He had once said, ‘ This is the first time 
I have spoken these three years.’ Soon the group divided, 
and she talked to George, while I drew close to the two 
brothers, and we entered upon our favourite learned dis- 
cussions. That wasa pleasure! With the Grimms one 
is ever grasping into a copious treasure-store. Presently we 
came to Luther, and the translation of the Bible—and 
probably we should still be sitting there, had not Bekker 


304 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


let me know that he was come home. His wife (showing 
her Spanish blood) keeps as handsome as ever; the son has 
grown up finely, and studies law at Greifswalde. Bekker 
himself has recovered the heavy loss of the savings of his 
life, and works again with spirit; his conversation dwelt 
upon you, and your never-to-be-forgotten mother. Nine 
o’clock struck, and I drove with George to Von der Heydt’s. 
We passed an agreeable evening there. You will receive 
the ‘ Kladderadatsch,’ and understand the allusions. Mer- 
lin and Christian Josias, parodied from Gdthe’s Faust, is 
witty. Arthur Stanley is here, and we must catch him to 
take him with us to Lepsius. I work daily in the Library 
—which is a great pleasure. Altogether, it would be de- 
lightful to live at Berlin, if one could only pass the winter 
in Italy, and the summer in the country ; not otherwise, and 
therefore not at all! I fail not to take rest, and let them 
take care of me. 


(Translation. } 
The Palace, Berlin: Monday, 28th September, 1857. 


Three o'clock, afternoon. 

My intercourse with yow to-day takes place later than 
usual! Yesterday, I had a fine afternoon: with Lepsius I 
worked (after we had been to church) two hours before 
dinner at Egyptian chronology, after which we had a cheer- 
ful meal, Arthur Stanley (who was delightful) being of the 
party, and also Abeken. Then we went to Strauss, and 
later to the admirable Hofmann: then to Olfers, till half- 
past ten. To-day, Bokh has brought me the diploma as an 
actual Member of the Academy, on the strength of which I 
may give lectures in every Prussian University. In the 
Library I worked for two hours: then went to the ex- 
cellent Nitsch. . . . All things are ready for my journey 
on Friday. To-morrow is the decisive day. I made my 
solemn determination yesterday in church, absolutely to 
give over into the hands of God whether I should now act in 
the great concern or not. ‘If it be good, so let it be; if 


JET. 66] AUDIENCE OF THE KING. 305 


not, tear Thou the web!’ What I have to say—what I 
can offer to do, and what not—I know; but whether it be 
God’s will that now, under the present ruling circumstances 
and persons, the great work should be undertaken,—that 
God alone knows, and He will show me the way. I re- 
main in reflection and doubt. 

My travelling plan remains as before. Saturday early, 
9.40, at Frankfort, there to rest, and see Schopenhauer, the 
Stiidler Museum, the Ariadne, and the Maine. Could you 
not come to meet me at Frankfort, and we could see all 
this together ? Now I commend you to God!... 


[ Translation. | 
The Palace, Berlin : Tuesday, early, quarter past seven, 
Michaelmas-day, 1857. 

The day is come! Iam invited to Sans Souci, to come 
by the twelve o’clock train, because His Majesty wishes to 
speak to me before dinner. There is much to be considered 
yet; from eight to nine, Trendelenburg will be with me for 
that purpose. I can therefore only give you a sign of life, 
beloved! I go to my work fresh, and firm in heart to my 
Sunday’s vow. ... 


Htract from a letter of the same day, from George Bunsen. 


My peaREsT Morner,—One must give over one’s hopes 
and fears into the Almighty’s hands, and just rest there. 
One of two things may be feared,—either that my father 
should be entangled again in the belief that something 
will be done; or else, that he should break off in a manner 
which would leave a sting. The former fear is counte- 
nanced by the general experience of all who have entered 
that magic circle; the latter apprehension springs with me 
from observing the independence of mind and hatred of 1n- 
coherence which are now predominant, My dear father is 
now sketching out what he wishes to say to the King; it 
has all been well matured in thought and conversation. 
Of course, latitude is left as regards the main point, viz. 

VOL. II. Xx 


306 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


the Constitution of the Church, there to say and do what 
the spirit bids at the moment. Truly glad I am of all these 
days having intervened; they have given time for the 
weighty consideration,—does he really mean to do it ? 

On my dear father’s health I say nothing that can sur- 
prise you when I speak of his constant difficulty in walking, 
and of the evil consequences in this respect of every meal, 
especially dinner. His general appearance is to me that of 
mental fatigue; and I would fain hope that this stay at 
Berlin, in spite of its many excitements, may have acted as 
a rest to the over-strained mind. He certainly needs and 
seeks physical rest a great deal more than he used to do this 
summer. His disposition is invariably cheerful and kind. 

Bunsen to his Wife. 
(Translation. ] 
The Palace, Berlin: Thursday, early, Ist October, 1857. 

The anchor is lifted, my beloved, and the vessel of my 
life is directed longingly to you and Charlottenberg. 

The King yesterday afternoon, after a long and affec- 
tionate embrace, dismissed me in the most gracious manner. 
This whole day, however, is devoted to his affairs. To- 
morrow, at seven mm the morning, we steam off towards 
Leipzig; the rest remains as settled. We shall arrive at 
Frankfort just at the time of Olympia’s wedding. God bless 
the dear child ! 

I part from the King and from Berlin as I wish and pray 
to depart from this earth—as on the calm still evening of 
a long beautiful summer’s day. 

This day we have a leave-taking dinner at Abeken’s, the 
Joving and amiable friend. I think he will come to pay us 
a visit. ... 

Leave-taking from Berlin. 
[ Translation. | 
The Palace, Berlin: Friday morning, five o'clock, 
2nd October, 1857. 

Praised be Thon, Eternal God, the God of faithfulness and 

truth, Thou that art All-merciful and All-wise, that Thou 


JET. 66] FAREWELL TO BERLIN. 307 


hast stifled the struggle of my heart, and quenched its bit- 
terness : that Thou hast led me hither against my will; and 
that Thou hast wrought great things, contrary to expecta- 
tion, and beyond all wish. Thy congregation in Christ will 
be planted amid this people, that general freedom may 
flourish on the consecrated soil;—this Royal House and 
this nation will be reconciled. ‘ Christ is our peace,’ in 
truth. The period of Thy kingdom, as the kingdom of the 
Spirit, of love, and of freedom, will come near, and Thy 
everlasting Gospel will be preached through all the earth. 
‘The yoke of the oppressor is broken, and Thy eye of love 
shines into all lands. Hallelujah !’ 

My tent Thou wilt place for me near my children, in the 
country of my choice, where my bones may rest beside those 
of Niebuhr—should it be Thy will that Thy work should 
prosper by my hands. 

But do Thou, O Lord, remain my succour and defence, 
and Thy will alone be done, to Thy glory, and to the for- 
warding of Thy holy kingdom, Thou that livest in eternity ! 
Amen! 

Present position of the matter. 
{ Translation. | 
The Palace, Berlin: Friday morning, 2nd October, 1857. 

1. The foundation is laid—the bridge 1s constructed—the 
seed is sown——the spur is apphed. But no more. 

2. That which has been proposed can alone become reality 
under an unalterable and firm will and rule. 

3. This must now be worked out, agreed upon, and con- 
sidered with the heir to the throne. 

4. Meanwhile, will Easter, 1858, come round P 

5. The beginning of execution must be made in 1858 in 
the Rhine province, or at least prepared there. There alone 
is the rod of Aaron which has blossomed. 

6. Before hand is laid on the work, each article must be 
paragraphed. 

7. (Concerns persons to be placed in office.) . . . 

x2 


308 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


8. I must undertake no office, but seek a firm place in the 
Rhine-land, cum otto ef dignitate, compatible with the Bible- 
work. 

9. If it be God’s will that this now be accomplished, this 
is the way—His will be done! 


The notes made by Bunsen on the subjects treated 
and on the observations uttered by the King, during 
that remarkable interview of two hours which he ob- 
tained on the last day of September 1857, shall be 
withheld, as not essential to the purpose of conveying 
an image of his life and character; as neither com- 
municating a new feature of the singular relation 
subsisting between those two men, nor materially 
strengthening impressions already given. The two 
extracts, just given, of devotional effusion and of 
sober reflection, will show that Bunsen had not re- 
linquished his life’s habit of hoping, and yet that he 
had, at the same time, an instinctive perception that 
the measure upon which he had set his heart—the 
independent self-government of Evangelical commu- 
nities—was not intended to be granted by the King, 
although he might, in affectionate indulgence to the 
convictions of Bunsen, refrain from summing up de- 
cisively the result of the sentiments which he suffered 
to transpire. 

Two subjects, apparently distinct, had been em- 
phatically commended to Bunsen’s conscientious con- 
templation by the King, not only often and urgently 
in earlier years, but with peculiar energy on the 
repeated though short occasions of conference during 
this last occasion of cordial intercourse—the proper 
style of architecture for the national and metropolitan 


Air. 66] INTERVIEW WITH THE PRINCE OF PRUSSIA. 309 


church, so long a favourite design with the King, and 
the form of government for the community of living 
intelligence, or the Church in the spiritual sense. 
These two subjects Bunsen, in his own commentary 
upon the King’s expressed intentions, studiously in- 
terwove into one—arguing that a congregation con- 
stituted on a free and rational, and therefore Christian, 
system, would itself expand into the form best suited 
to its public worship, and, unshackled by any archi- 
tectural forms merely traditional, would assemble 
from all sides to meet round the central altar-table, 
or table of communion, there to offer the one only 
sacrifice of the Christian—his reasonable soul and 
free will—when partaking of the symbols commemo- 
rative of the death and of the ever-living presence of 
Christ. | 

Bunsen having returned home after this period of 
deep interest, on the 3rd October (the very day of the 
King’s mortal seizure, which was not publicly known 
till later), had not long rested from the manifold 
fatigues and excitement of the three weeks at Berlin, 
when he was called upon to set out towards Coblentz 
on 31st October. 

The reasons which caused this interview at Coblentz 
with their Royal Highnesses the Prince and Princess 
of Prussia to be desired and commanded, belong to 
that under or rather upper current of thought and 
labour, which accompanied, broke into, and overruled 
Bunsen’s literary occupations after his retirement from 
public business. The high interest and gratification, 
as well as distinction, of being invited for the purpose 
of confidential conversation with the present King 


310 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


and Queen of Prussia, whether at Baden or Coblentz, 
occurred in the course of every year spent at Heidel- 
berg: but the last-mentioned journey and visit at the 
Palace of Coblentz, at a time and season so inconve- 
nient, are probably to be explained by the desire of 
the Prince of Prussia to be informed in detail of the 
subject-matter of Bunsen’s last important intercourse 
with the King at Berlin. The foregoing extracts, 
insignificant in themselves, are inserted for the pur- 
pose of completing the picture of a life so full of 
variety of strain on the mental faculties. The inter- 
ruption of literary labours seriously retarded the pub- 
lication of a large portion, long since nearly ready, of 
each of the works in hand; but interruption more 
serious resulted from the large proportion of days of 
illness in the following winter. The lengthening out 
of a fine autumn continued the possibility of air and 
exercise, so as to carry Bunsen m a tolerable state of 
health and in full aetivity of occupation through De- 
cember and into the new year; but the winter severity 
of January laid him low with one of the too well- 
known attacks of gastric disorders and harassing 
cough, which hung upon him until relief was brought 
by the warm air of spring. It will be seen in the 
extracts of letters, that visions of removal to the 
coast of the Mediterranean cheered the days of dark- 
ness; and by the end of March, the long-desired 
commencement of the publication of the ‘ Bibelwerk ’ 
brought with 1t the means, which were essential, to 
allow of his indulging in a journey to the South and 
in a six months’ residence there, without giving up 
Charlottenberg. 


ET. 66} REMARKS ON AFFAIRS AT BERLIN, ol] 


CHAPTER XIX. 


JOURNEYS TO BERLIN AND SOUTH OF FRANCE. 


ELEVATION OF BUNSEN TO THE PEERAGE—RENAN—LORD DERBY’S AD-~ 
MINISTRATION—-INDIA BILL—DEATH OF NEUKOMM-—BUNSEN’S RELIGIOUS 
OPINIONS—VISIT TO BADEN——AFFAIR OF RASTADT—BUNSEN 'S OPINIONS 
ON CLAIRVOYANCE—VISIT TO BERLIN-—-THE PRINCE REGENT-—BUNSEN 
TAKES HIS SEAT IN THE PRUSSIAN HOUSE OF PEERS—JOURNEY TO 
GENEVA AND THE SOUTH OF FRANCE—CANNES—DEATH OF TOCQUE- 
VILLE —‘ THE LIFE OF JESUS ’—CAMPAIGN OF 1859-——-PRUSSIA AND AUS- 
TRIA—SYMPATHY WITH ITALY-—-IRRITATION IN SOUTHERN GERMANY— 
VISIT TO PARIS-—RETURN TO CANNES-—COMMERCIAL TREATY OF FRANCE 
AND ENGLAND. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. ] 
Charlottenberg: Wednesday, 7th October, 18957. 
I wap only just placed my books and papers in order, and 
had set my own work and that of my expectant fellow- 
Jabourers a-going, when your much longed-for letter came to 
hand; and thus I reply at the moment. 

First, be assured, that among all things good and desirable 
that the journey has brought me, your cherishing love and 
cheerful devotedness to me, even in the midst of your own 
sorrow, has formed the culminating point of brightness 
during the whole of this late remarkable portion of my life. 
Your faithful affection is the strong arm upon which | lean 
and find support, now and in future: for which, may God’s 
richest blessing attend you! 

My general impression with respect to the condition of 
things is— 

1st —No singleness of purpose, and therefore no clearness. 

2nd—No chance of success, except by miracle. 


312 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1857 


To these observations belongs ‘ Never mind!’ in English, 
and ‘ Sursum corda’ in a Christian sense; and both, with 
God’s help, can my heart furnish. 


At the moment of writing the above, Bunsen was 
not aware of the serious character of the attack from 
which Frederick William IV. never recovered. Huis 
remarks, therefore, apply to a state of affairs which, 
in fact, had passed away. It will be remembered that 
the real condition of the King was not fully stated at 
once to the public after the stroke of the 3rd October. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] 21st October, 1857. 


What a melancholy complication at Berlin! and how con- 
solatory for me, to have seen the King once more in entire 
affection and cheerfulness! No one at Berlin believes in the 
possibility of his recovery, or that he can ever again sus- 
tain the weight of government. The public amuses itself 
with reports as to my future position at Berlin; but I know 
of nothing on the subject, except that I shall never again 
accept office. At Berlin I saw almost all my theological 
friends and acquaintances, and made many. valuable new ac- 
quaintances, It would have done your heart good to have 
seen how much kindness and respect was shown to me on all 
sides, and particularly by the people of Berlin. I am now 
again deep in my work—the publication of the first volume 
of the ‘ Bibelwerk’ has been retarded one month by my Ber- 
lin journey. At Leipzig I saw the first sheets struck off 
(stereotyped). 

2nd December.—The King is physically better, but his 
memory returns only occasionally for short intervals; not 
in the most distant manner can they speak to him on busi- 
ness; the cord once snapped cannot be restored. This con- 
dition has only so far affected my outward condition, that 
the King, without my knowledge, on 3rd October (the very 


ZEr. 66] CLOSE OF THE YEAR 1857. 313 


last day of his reigning, and giving his signature) com- 
manded and executed my elevation to the Peerage. The 
matter was an object of long negotiation and correspondence, 
ever since 1844, when I, in commission from the King, made 
out a system as to the increase of the order of nobles. Since 
then, I have declined to accept any proposal which should 
stand in contradiction to the principles therein set down, 
in all essential points answering to the English system. 
Again, in 1856, did the King make me a proposal, which 
again I declined. I have the proofs in hand, that the King, 
on the 38rd October, desired to do something, which, accord- 
ing to those principles, I could accept, and therefore under 
given circumstances must have accepted. But the Minister 
with whom the affair rested knew nothing of that. All this 
has cost me much writing, and some vexation. .. . 

6th December.—I rejoice to hear of the high position of 
your house of business, because I ever hold in honour the 
name of Schwabe, the founder, and because I expected no 
less. If I mistake not, England is already well over the 
crisis, and its consequences will be beneficial. On the Con- 
tinent it is just beginning. What a consolation to perceive 
the good feeling between labourers and employers! and 
how changed since 1840! 

The business of the Peerage as regarding myself is at a 
stand-still. I cannot refuse, but also I cannot accept, with- 
out some security for not being drawn into contradiction 
with my own political principles. The King alone could 
remove my doubt, and he is not in possession of his faculties! 
What a depth of suffering for a man of high intelligence and 
of the best intentions ! | 

30th December—We have passed cheerful and tranquil 
Christmas-days. What a Christmas-gift of God was the 
Relief of Lucknow ! 


The patent of nobility referred to in the preceding 
letter was granted by King Frederick William IV. on 
the 8rd October, 1857, a few hours before the seizure 


314. MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


which deprived him of his faculties. Thus, by a re- 
markable coincidence, the last act of his reign was 
to confer this merited honour and reward upon his 
attached Minister and faithful friend. The following 
passage occurs in a letter addressed by Bunsen to 
Arthur Schopenhauer, in reply to the congratulations 
addressed to him on this occasion :— 


{ Translation. ] Charlottenberg : 13th January, 1858. 


I have endured the elevation in rank, as I endured my 
birth into the world ; having, however, fought it off, accord- 
ing to my long declared principles, in so far as submission 
thereto might imply want of respect towards my own prdper 
condition, which is that of the cultivated middle class; or 
because an absurdity of pretension might be attributed to 
myself. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. ] Charlottenberg: 29th January, 1858. 


The course of events is dragging down Napoleon III. He 
has thrown himself into the military-clerical-police direc- 
tion, and has declared war against ‘ideas,’ on account of an 
abominable attempt at assassination. The whole of France 
divided among five commanders, and declared under con- 
tinnous martial law, in case of any movement, ipsp facto, 
without awaiting telegrams! All so-called impiété to ¥e per- 
secuted by the police! What a curse is annexed to imperial 
despotism! The Emperor’s real danger lay not in the at- 
tack of the 14th, but in his speech on the 18th. Will no one 
in Germany utter the truth? 

olst March.—The saying of Schulze Bodmer (which ori- 
ginated at Heidelberg) is going the round of Paris :— 
‘D’attentat a parfaitement réussi ; 0 HEmpereur a perdu la téte.’ 

How I rejoice that you courageously start with writing ! 
That is the only way. Whether the first cast succeeds or 
not, it must, if the spirit urges, have its way. Medias in res ! 


AT. 66 | ELEVATION TO THE PEERAGE. g15 


One cannot make research to good purpose, without having 
first placed a forming hand upon the object. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] 30th January. 


Surely you will have guessed that I have been laid up by 
the influenza. I can only to-day write two lines, that you 
may not first learn from the newspaper that the King has 
made me a Peer of Prussia, with seat in the Upper House 
as Baron (I’retherr). This is a triumph of progress in the 
English direction. The Court party wanted to make me 
pass through a preparatory stage of ordinary noblesse 
(Junkerthum)—but I insisted on giving up the whole, or 
that a creation should take place, as was done by Queen 
Victoria in the case of Macaulay, and that I should be a 
member of the House of Lords. This was the King’s inten- 
tion in October, but his illness made its execution impossible, 
until fourteen days ago, when the Prince Regent himself 
made some enquiry on the subject. The King interrupted 
the Prince with these words, ‘Just that, and nothing less, 
did I intend ;’ and he then went through the whole trans- 
action with great clearness, and remembered further that 
he had desired to grant my son Ernest (‘on account of his 
services to the Royal Legation in London’) the rank of a 
Counsellor of Legation. He showed himself cheerful and 
pleased that the thing should now be brought in order by 
the Prince. 

Slst March.—The accounts of Neukomm are sad. Pray 
send the enclosed lines to him. That dear, high-minded 
friend ! 

Sunday after Easter, April, 1858.—I know not for what 
treasure I would give up the satisfaction of knowing that 
my last proof of friendship—the letter of farewell to 
Neukomm—which an inward voice urged me to write and 
send on that day, should, by your kind care and quickness 
of despatch, have arrived just in time. It is soothing to 


316 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1858 


think that a dying friend should have departed with the 
consciousness of the affection expressed for him, and 
perhaps also impressed by the serious and tranquillising 
reflections and aspirations after the rest in God, which 
accompanied those expressions. The deep and high mean- 
ing of those three last words uttered by him will ever 
remain inmy mind. A fine and rare specimen of humanity 
has in him vanished away from among us. Much is 
required to work out a real human character—cultivation 
outward and inward, of the mind and faculties, knowledge 
of the world, the understanding of himself and his position ; 
but not less to form the real artist. The mere artistical 
training is difficult, and the inward still more than the 
outward; and how many of the professors of the art, more 
especially of feeling—the art of music—remain stationary 
half-way! Yet the thorough artist ought to possess a 
thoroughly cultivated understanding, he ought to be a 
thinker, and a self-conscious human being, which is most 
uncommon. Such was he who has just departed; and 
such was Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy. And how did 
Neukomm, like Géthe, keep up the energy of striving after 
further development and acquisition, and endeavour, even 
in his advanced age, to preserve his powers of composition ! 
and all that he was resulted from his own struggles and 
endeavours, and that often amid circumstances of extreme 
difficulty. I could fill pages with outpourings of my heart 
about this deceased friend. 


Bunsen’s reply to a Letter from Rudolph W., in Magdeburg 
(personally unknown to him), enquiring into his religious 
opinions. 

(Translation. ] Tuesday in Whitsuntide: 25th May, 1858. 
Dear CHRISTIAN BROTHER,—Your call, of the 20th of 
last month, went to my heart—as how should it not P but 
as I had much to finish before the Festival which did not 
admit of delay, I have reserved for a Whitsuntide pleasure 


JET. 66] BUNSEN’S RELIGIOUS OPINIONS. 317 


the answering of your question as a Christian—that is, 
sincerely and openly. Yes, my fellow-believer, the Lord 
taught me early that I am a sinner, and that only in Christ 
I can become well-pleasing to God, and a child of God. 
He, the same Lord (as you may read it stated shortly in my 
‘ Bibelwerk’), has preserved me by His Spirit in the same 
path, and given me strength to search His Word, in humble, 
sincere enquiry. For it is said, ‘The truth shall make you 
free ;’ how then should the enquiry after truth lead those 
into error, who, for the glory of God and not for their own, 
seek it where it is to be found? and where that is I have 
said, in terms not to be misunderstood, to yourself and all 
those who are willing to read before they judge or condemn 
ine—in the ‘Address to the Christian Reader,’ at the 
opening of my book ‘God in History,’—in the Word of 
(sod, the Bible, as reason and conscience explain it to us, 
and the whole history of the world confirms it,—as the 
‘power of God unto salvation to all those that believe.’ 
That I have not been hasty to address the congregation, 
you will see from that short history of my guidance in the 
beginning of the ‘ Bibelwerk. That this endeavour of 
mine,—dedicated to the entire congregation of Christ, and 
particularly to that portion of it dwelling in the German 
fatherland, with disregard of every other consideration,—is 
not well-pleasing to those theologians who place their own 
or their predecessors’ decrees, or the reiteration of the 
same, by the side of the Bible (therefore, in fact, above 
the Bible), must not surprise you, any more than it disturbs 
my inward peace. Hengstenberg, Leo, Nathusius, and 
those who echo their sentiments, are resolved to place the 
congregation under the Church; and protest against every 
free utterance, even while complaining of the folly and 
absurdity by which the free Word of God is placed in 
shackles (as by the ancient Scribes and Pharisees), and 
the light of the Spirit which ‘will guide into all truth,’ 
and ‘searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God,’ is 


318 MISMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


‘hidden under a bushel.’ Every true history of the Bible- 
translation is a heavy accusation and conviction of such 
theologians; for who but these, not the disciples of Luther, 
but of Lutheranism, have obscured the Bible of Luther, and 
hindered the completion of the work begun in the Spirit of 
God by that great and holy man, in the spirit in which he 
began it, for the service of the Lord’s congregation? If 
the facts I have stated in this matter are not true, let them 
be disproved ; but just because that cannot be done, railing 
accusations are being multiphed, where there is nobody to 
answer them. . 

Those who preach the curse and wrath of God against 
sin, are in the right; butif they do not at the same time 
preach the love of God, the eternal love of God in Christ, 
with which He has loved us all from the beginning—if 
they preach not that the Spirit makes known the love of 
God to all who reckon themselves to be, not much, nor 
little, but nothing, and God to be All in All—then they 
preach not the Gospel, nor the doctrine of the great 
Apostle of the heathen, who calls himself the ‘ chief of 
sinners,’ although conscious that by the grace of God he 
had become a chosen instrument for the work of God. To 
this point may the Lord conduct us all, and in this faith 
may He preserve us all! 

Do you go on faithfully searching the Scriptures, and 
He will give you the zeal of the Spirit in your heart, and 
preserve it to you to the day of death; and let no authori- 
tative declarations disturb you. In my writings you will 
not, I hope, find any such declarations, for I seek to lay 
before the congregation the reasons for my assertions, as 
they have become clear to me through the labour of forty 
years; and in this I am only doing my duty. 

In a few months you will receive the next volume of my 
‘ Bibelwerk;’ and if you will but go on studying with me, 
yon will discern in the Law the first burst of that light, 
which in the Gospel, in the person of Christ the Son of 
God, shone forth in full clearness and brightness. 


ZEr. 66] BUNSEN’S OPINION ON CLAIRVOYANCE. 319 


Again thanking you for your confidence, I remain in 
Christian affection and esteem, &c., BUNSEN. 


Extract from Dr. M'Cosh’s work, entitled ‘The Supernatural 
wm relation to the Natural,’ Sc. 

.... The last day I passed with him was a Sabbath— 
a Sabbath indeed : for I never in all my life spent a more 
profitable day. In the forenoon I sat with him in the 
University Church of Heidelberg, where we had the privi- 
lege of listening to a powerful Gospel sermon from Dr. 
Schenkel. I spent the afternoon in his house, where he 
read to us in German, or in English translations, out of 
the fine devotional works of his country, interspersing 
remarks of his own, evidently springing from the depths of 
his heart, and breathing towards heaven—whither, I firmly 
believe, he has now been carried. 


The living picture contained in the work above- 
mentioned is one instance of the kind of memorial so 
delightful to surviving affection, and is almost unique 
of its kind. The objections made by the excellent 
Dr. M‘Cosh to opinions uttered by Bunsen shall only 
be so far commented upon as to remind the reader 
of these lines, that Dr. M‘Cosh witnessed the oscilla- 
tions of a pendulum, by which it was often borne far 
away from the centre of gravity, to which it returned, 
and in which it rested:—and that she who had 
longest watched and witnessed the oscillations, has 
most reason to know and mark the fact, and the 
point of repose. 

On the opinion held by Bunsen as to mesmerism, 
Dr. M‘Cosh is believed to have misunderstood the 
distinction which he endeavoured to mark between 
total disbelief in a natural gift of the human animal, 
and the over-estimate of the gift which prevails 


320 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


among those who exalt its operations into sublimity 
and spirituality: whereas he believed that second 
sight, or clairvoyance, was only the product of a 
morbid state of body, a disturbance of health or of 
the nervous equipoise, and therefore a degraded and 
unsound condition. He would not close his eyes to 
the evidence of facts which he had had peculiar 
opportunity of ascertaining, but only endeavoured to 
divest them of the immense amount of deception and 
unfounded conjecture and false imaginings, which 
encompass the existence of a healing power in the 
human system depending on the human will. He 
was deeply grateful to the vigorous hand, the firm 
resolve, and untiring perseverance of Count Szapary 
in restoring the long-paralysed limbs of his beloved 
daughter to full activity and her frame to its natural 
health, and thanked God for the good gift granted to 
iman; protesting against the view which would at- 
tribute the work of kealing to evil powers. The two 
sets of facts (belonging to the magnetic gift, only 
because that gift may be the producing cause)—one, 
the faculty of second sight (whether spontaneous or the 
result of magnetism) to perceive transactions far re- 
moved in time and space ; the other, the possibility of 
healing disturbances in the physical system by the 
inherent power of a human hand and will,—he held 
fast as realities which he had been allowed the means 
of recognising as such: and, that being the case, he 
felt it to be not irreverent, in his historical investi- 
gations of the Bible, to assert the possibility of the 
use of powers inherent in man to produce results 
often classed with the preternatural: most certainly 


fET. 66] BUNSEN'S OPINION ON CLAIRVOYANCE. 321 


not intending to confound the direct action of the 
Holy Spirit (for which he ever so especially con- 
tended) with effects of essentially human origin. 
‘This is said in reference to Dr. M‘Cosh’s observation, 
that ‘Bunsen was apt to connect mesmerism and 
clairvoyance with the inspiration of the writers in 
the Bible :’ where the expression ‘ connect’ must be 
declined as incorrect. 

At so early a date as 1820, Bunsen wrote his 
Opinion and explanation on this much-engrossing, 
but then little argued, subject, to the late Dr. Brandis 
(father of his friend, C. A. Brandis, Professor at Bonn), 
in the form of a dialogue: requesting his confirma- 
tion or rejection of the theory. This dialogue met 
with approbation, but was mislaid among the papers 
of the correspondent, and has never been found again, 
though sought before and since his death. In the 
opiion of the only survivor of the few who had cog- 
nisance of its contents, the matter was treated con- 
vincingly and with much spirit and power, and it is 
difficult to believe that the dialogue can have been 
destroyed as waste paper by any hands into which it 
may have fallen at Copenhagen. The view of the 
subject therein unfolded and exemplified agreed 
with that which has been just stated. The strong 
protest which he never failed to make against the 
misuse of magnetism shall only be mentioned in 
addition. He considered as misuse all prying into 
the unknown for the gratification of idle curiosity, 
and all tampering with the nervous system and all 
acting upon faculties in a condition of morbid excite- 

VOL. II. X 


B22 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1858 


ment, a8 worse than misuse of a power granted for 
good—as an actual offence against our fellow-crea- 
tures. Thus he only considered the exercise of 
the gift to be lawful as a branch of the art of heal- 
ing. 
Bunsen to a Friend. 
[Translation.] . 


81st August. — The dear King has thought of me at 
Tegernsee! When a photograph was shown him of the 
statue of Hippolytus at Rome, of which a cast has been 
made for the Museum, lately arrived at Berlin, he said, 
‘Olfers must have a second cast made for Bunsen, and 
have it sent to Bunsen.’ I am inexpressibly moved by 
this! The thought can only be his own. 

Ath September.—I look upon the system of persecution by 
the Emperor Napoleon against the Protestants of Maubeuge 
(which case, alas! is not an isolated one), and the prohibi- 
tion of the sale of the Bible, even among Protestants, as a 
sign of an approaching judgment. A solemn promise was 
made to Lord Cowley, an 1853, to withdraw both the Or- 
dinances. The pretended reason for the persecution in 
Maubeuge is, that ‘formerly no Protestant worship had 
existed there.” This form is a mockery, even among this 
class of laws, just in the manner of those in the period pre- 
ceding the revocation of the Edict of Nantes. The Romish 
clergy of 1858 demands much more than that of 1680. 
The abominations in the inner parts of France, in the 
application of ‘La loi des suspects,’ exceed all belief. A 
colporteur in St. Rémy, Normandy, was threatened with 
Cayenne, because he had visited a sick woman and spoken 
words of Christian consolation toher. The only safe advice 
to give the man was to escape to England. ‘Ma mission 
n’est pas encore terminée,’ signifies in biblical terms, ‘La 
coupe de Ja colére de Dieu n’est pas encore remplie.’ There 
is a judgment impending! But God only knows the time 


ZEr. 67] VISIT TO BERLIN. 323 


and the hour. I say the same of the tyrant of Geneva: 
there the clouds ever grow more threatening. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg: 16th September, 1858. 


I have always found that the entrance through which 
I was called upon to penetrate opened spontaneously : it 
has never answered to me to press through by force. 

Your visit did my inmost heart good. The proof was 
that I wrote that last day, and the day after, the best that 
has yet come into my pen—upon the ‘ Consciousness of 
God’ in Jesus, and in the Apostles: often before had it 
vaguely floated before me in spirit. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. ] 
Hotel d’Angleterre, Berlin: 18th October, 1858. 

Here I am, happily arrived, accompanied from St. Eliza- 
beth’s at Marburg by Lang, the architect of the restoration 
in this royal city, favoured by the finest weather and re- 
ceived at the station by the two guides of your recent 
journey. I entered this best of hotels at ten o’clock, con- 
veyed in Lepsius’ carriage. We talked over our tea till 
midnight; and when I left the quiet adjoining bed-chamber 
this morning at seven, I saw the prospect, from my sitting- 
room, of the green square with flowers and a fountain 
playing, the river beyond, and above it the new high cupola 
of the Palace; on the left, the bridge with the eight colos- 
sal marble groups (the young warrior instructed by Pallas 
Athéné in the use of arms—guided in combat, in attack, in 
defence, in victory, in death—and the palm of triumph), 
and, behind all, that splendid Museum. Before breakfast I 
looked over some printed slips relating to the Edda, and 
read some of the papers, so well packed and arranged by 
my dear Frances—then breakfast and conversation with 
Stockmar and Usedom. Then I drove to the Prince (all 
absent at Babelsberg); then a suffocation came on, and I 

¥ 2 


324 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1858 


-hastened back, and recovered soon, to have a conversation 
with Cyril Graham (whom we knew as a boy), and who 
will set out to-morrow towards the Hauran, where last year 
he discovered eighty-seven cities in good preservation. 
Then did I talk long with our admirable friend, Abeken, 
and afterwards I was able, with the help of Charles’s arm, 
to walk, without consciousness of effort, to the Museum 
and through all the antiquities and pictures, and back 
again. 

In the night at Marburg, towards morning, I designed 
a great plan foran Academy with an Hthnological Institute, 
of which Egyptian lore would form a branch: the whole to 
be connected with the German Oriental Society. Lepsius 
would work out the particulars—a pittance of 20,000 
thalers yearly would be sufficient ! 


To the Same. 


[ Translation. } Wednesday, early, 20th October, 1858. 
(Before the opening of Parliament.) 
Soft, rainy weather—one knows not whether this day 
will clear into sunshive, or whether that will not yet be 
granted ; this expresses nearly the condition of the general 
temper of mind. Noone knows anything, in fact; but the 
feeling is general that the Prince Regent’s will is for the 
right and the good, and that he will bring it into execution 
at the time that he judges right. The confidence of the 
nation in the personal character and integrity of the Regent 
is indeed the anchor of security within and without—and 
it 1s certainly deserved. The two Houses will to-day, at 
twelve o’clock, await the Prince in the ‘ White Hall’ of the 
Palace, then separate, to meet each other apart to-morrow ; 
and on Monday will be the taking of oaths, after which the 
new Ministry will be announced. 


ET. 67] MEETING WITH VON DER HEYDT. 320 


To the Same. 
(Translation. ] Thursday, 21st October, 1858. 


I am just returned from the second sitting—all passed off 
with dignity. So far, so good! God be thanked! There 
is an elevating effect in the consciousness of an universally- 
spread feeling of the sacredness of constitutional forms. The 
members of each House are quite at home—form’ groups 
and discuss, as the masters in their own domain, until the 
President opens the Session. The Prince Regent has 
worked with the Ministers, but has seen nobody but the 
Prince his son, and the Princess. For to-morrow, Friday, 
I am invited to dinner, with Charles. As the dear old 
Magician * says, the Prince has displayed the great quality 
of silence, and is to be hailed as ‘ William the Silent II.’— 
as which, I suppose, he will continue. . . . 

Friday, 22nd October, three o’clock.—My neighbour in the 
House to-day was Daniel von der Heydt, a really Christian 
spirit, although theological. He did not recognise me at 
first, and spoke in commonplace terms; but presently, 
having refreshed his memory of 1825 in Rome, he met me 
with warmth, and related to me the death of his wife and 
her dying words. She sank under the small-pox ; her death 
was pronounced imminent three days before the spirit de- 
parted. Her husband asked whether she had any wishes 
or requests to express; she answered, ‘No wish—the 
blessing of God rests upon our children; as to yourself, 
you are I—I am you. For our Lord I have no prayer nor 
petition, but only praise and thanksgiving.’ Then he re- 
peated the first verse of a favourite hymn ; she pronounced 
the second, he continued with the third; in the fourth was 
the expression, ‘The Lord can save,’ which she altered 
into ‘The Lord has saved;’ and thus she proceeded, re- 
taining consciousness to the very last, and saying ever and 
again, ‘I am dead, I live in God.’ Not a single complaint 


* Baron Stockmar. 


326 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


was uttered by her. I said to him, ‘Those are the utter- 
ances not of a soul departing, but of one already entered 
into life eternal, yet returning for a moment.’* From all 
sides, members, whose names I know not, have come up to 
me to express thanks for attentions and kindness shown to 
them in one place or other. The expressions of surprise of 
those to whom I was a stranger are said to be remarkable: 
one had supposed me morose; another, worn-out; a Pome- 
ranian, who spoke to Usedom, had fancied me as ‘ knackselig ’ 
(done for). ‘ But,’ added he, ‘ the appearance is not so ; on 
the contrary, that of a sunshiny countenance.’ 


The journey to Berlin, to which the preceding ex- 
tracts refer, was considered necessary for the purpose 
of Bunsen’s taking his seat in the Chamber of Peers. 
The last token of kindness towards him, evidenced by 
the command to make out a Patent of Peerage, which 
was also the last act of Frederick William IV. before 
the disabling seizure that ended two years later in 
death, had been confiymed and executed in the most. 
gracious manner by the Prince Regent; and not to 
have availed himself of the favour, by taking posses- 
sion of his seat, would have seemed ungrateful as 
the Prince had personally expressed a wish to see 
him on the occasion referred to. Bunsen was more- 
over to all appearance no less able this year than 
he had been the year before, to undertake the 
journey. He summoned his son Charles from Turin 
to accompany him to Berlin. The interest of the 
journey to him was extreme as well as varied; and it 
is impossible to regret his having made the effort, as 
the abundance of impressions received, the inspection 


* This blessed departure sank deep into Bunsen’s mind, and occurred 
to him again on his own deathbed. 


Er. 67] TAKES HIS SEAT IN HOUSE OF PEERS. 327 


in person of a scene of things which so continually 
occupied his thoughts, the opportunity of intercourse 
with friends, and the renewed sense of the value in 
which he was held by those whose sentiments were 
prized by him, were all causes of satisfaction and re- 
freshment of mind to be thankfully contemplated, 
even in a retrospect which brings to mind the 
grievous fact, that these autumnal days, this month 
of October, were to recur but once more in what 
could be reckoned life !—for the October of 1860 tound 
him in the struggle of dissolution ;—and in so short 
a term as in reality remained, any expenditure of 
time and strength for a purpose alien to that which 
had ruled his whole existence might be deplored as a 
waste. But neither he nor others could then have 
supposed that life so vivid and intense was yet so 
nearly expended, even though the attacks of suffo- 
cation, always brought on by emotion and the irregu- 
larities unavoidable in travelling, were frequent, and 
alarming to his companion, unused as he was to the 
painful spectacle. The lateness of the meeting of the 
Chambers rendered unavoidable the exposure of Bun- 
sen to a violent change of temperature in the sudden 
setting in of winter, early in November; and as a 
great deal of necessary work for the press remained 
to be done after his return home, the long-planned 
journey to the South was reserved for the severest 
period of the year, when days were shortest and 
gloom deepest, instead of its having been, as it would 
have been if undertaken during the latter'end of a 
fine autumn, an expedition of pleasure and refresh- 
ment. 


328 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


In a letter written at the beginning of November, 
he mentions that ‘Humboldt is seriously ill—Schén- 
lein, however, still hopes to be able to preserve his 
life. I have just received a line from him, written 
from his bed. I am to see him at oneo’clock.’ This 
is the notification of the last interview that took place . 
between Bunsen and the distinguished man to whose 
kindness and encouraging appreciation he had felt 
himself much indebted during many years of his 
earlier life, and whose demonstrations of esteem and 
mutual understanding he never would have known or 
suspected to be otherwise than genuine, had he not 
survived just long enough to witness that unfortunate 
publication of letters to Varnhagen, which has had 
such a wide-spread influence in lowering the estima- 
tion in which the cultivated society of all nations had 
delighted to hold Alexander von Humboldt. 

Bunsen’s habitual ,hbopefulness of spirit created 
for him a vision, very cheering while it lasted, of 
the possibility of influencing and persuading the 
newly appointed Prussian Government and its much- 
honoured Head to begin their administration by such 
a disposal of moderate portions of the revenue as might 
raise the condition of art and science and classical 
lore ; endeavouring to meet the standing objection of 
‘want of funds for every avoidable purpose,’ by re- 
ferring to the high-mindedness of the Sovereign of 
the last generation (Frederick William III.), who 
created the University of Berlin at a time of most 
crushing pressure, by the French occupation of his 
dominions. Bunsen’s letters contain many passages 
indicative of the plans which he delighted to organise, 


67] PLAN FOR AN ACADEMY OF ARTS, ETC. 329 


and his friends will not have forgotten the enthusiasm 

with which he reckoned on their execution in the 
year 1860, so near at hand—which would bring the 
fifty years’ jubilee of the foundation of the University, 
and, as he deemed, a new era of prosperity. He had 
not given up the hope of success, when, in August 
1859, he, for the last time, enjoyed personal inter- 
course with the Prince Regent at Baden. Besides 
the endowment desired for the Academy of Arts 
and the Academy of Sciences, he was urgent for 
the granting of requisite funds for the publication 
of the much-needed Polyglot Bible, which he would 
have had a Tetraglot, to contain the original versions 
in the three ancient languages—the Hebrew and 
Septuagint (including the Greek New Testament), 
and the Vulgate or Latin version of St. Jerome: 
to which should be added the German version of 
Luther, revised. This publication he would have 
superintended himself, and he might be said to have 
had all the materials in hand, having at his own 
expense caused an admirable collation to be made (by 
Dr. Heyse) of the celebrated MS. of the Vulgate 
preserved at Florence; and for the comparatively 
mechanical labour further needed, he would have 
found competent and zealous assistants. This classi- 
cal monument will probably some day come into 
being ; and then, let it not be forgotten that, as far as 
thought and will could go, Bunsen had framed the 
design, worked out all its parts, and indicated all its 
details. 


330 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [18258 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
(Translation. ] 12th November, 1868. 

I arrived at home (from Berlin) two days ago, after a 
journey in a temperature of from 5 deg. to 9 deg. Réaumur 
of cold. I witnessed a grand spectacle—the change of 
Ministry is a change of Government; men both capable of 
office and true to the Constitution are filling the places of 
the late Ministers; all are my political, and many my per- 
sonal, friends. I have had the great good fortune of being 
acknowledged worthy of a Ministerial post, on the one 
hand, and, on the other, of being left at liberty to remain 
faithful to what I consider my especial mission and my 
higher calling. The Prince Regent showed me from first 
to last the kindest and most gracious confidence. . . 


Having accomplished his return to Charlottenberg 
under the care of his son Charles, Bunsen had yet 
indispensable work to do for the press, which detained 
him another month bafore the journey southwards 
could be undertaken; and not till the 9th December 
did the party set out towards Basle, where an agree- 
able evening at the house of Professor Gelzer, and 
the company of that valued friend during the next 
day as far as Biel, helped effectually to keep up that 
cheerfulness, so indispensable as a counterpoise to the 
unceasing consciousness of bodily discomfort, and the 
increasing susceptibility of actual or apprehended an- 
noyances, belonging to the harassing disorder which 
was making continual and resistless progress. Com- 
fortless was the transit, in those days, by help of 
two steamers, from Biel to Yverdun,—the walk from 
the landing-place to the station, the long waiting for 
the train, the arrival long after dark at Geneva, the 


“ar. 67] JOURNEY TO CANNES. 331 


ascent of the long staircase at the hotel,—all trifles 
unnoticed, or converted into causes of mirth, where 
health and spirit exist to meet the smaller as well as 
the greater rubs of life; but falling heavily upon an 
invalid. It is both affecting and consolatory to ob- 
serve in the ensuing extracts from letters, that he 
calls his journey an ‘agreeable one ’—thus proving 
that his judgment had duly weighed all existing 
causes of thankfulness, and appreciated on reflection 
the degree of success which had attended the watch- 
ful care by which evil was warded off wherever it was 
possible. Two days at Geneva were much enjoyed 
by all the party—in particular, the hours spent among 
friends in the house of Mdlle. Vernet Pictet. They 
had left Heidelberg under that solid sea of vapour, 
spread from one extremity of the horizon to the 
other, which cannot be called cloud, as it admits 
of no variety of form or thickness, but which 
is inseparable from the greater part of the winter 
in the central continent of Europe, and which was 
found on the present occasion to extend as far as 
Orange, south of Lyons, where first the tent broke 
into clouds, between which the sun came forth to 
renew the face of the earth. When travellers speak of 
winter, its storms or splendours are treated of, which 
are the rare exception; whereas this total abrogation 
of sunshine and of life and beauty is the rule— 
alluded to here, as unavoidably oppressive and de- 
pressing to the traveller, who seemed to imbibe new 
life on reaching Marseilles and the sea breezes, with 
so many signs of the desired South im evergreens 
and in temperature. As at that time the railway 


332 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


terminated at Marseilles, four-and-twenty hours of 
diligence-conveyance had to be encountered between 
that place and Cannes,—favoured by the full moon 
and fine weather; but all unpleasantness was cast 
into oblivion on being hailed at the entrance of 
Cannes by lights and voices which guided the travel- 
lers into a house, the Maison Pinchinat, so much 
liked from the very first. 


Bunsen to a Friend, 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: New Year's Day, 1859. 


I cannot begin the new year, any more than I could last 
night close the old one, without thinking of you, and wish- 
ing to give you intelligence of our progress. We have had 
a most prosperous and agreeable journey, beginning with 
the 9th December. Arrived at length here at Cannes, we 
found ourselves in a lodging on the sea-shore, engaged and 
arranged for us (Maison Pinchinat), which at once seemed 
to me the best and most beautiful that we could anywhere 
obtain. ] can only compare the situation to Mola di Gaeta, 
and the Villa di Cicerone there; but in this place, the 
mountains that half enclose the bay are much finer. Yet 
we judged it right to see Nice before we fixed; and there 
the long-threatened influenza burst out, and kept me im- 
prisoned for ten days. Nice isa bad Brighton. We gave 
up going to see Mentone, and returned here the day before 
yesterday to the former spot—to remain here, please God, 
till April... . 


In the course of the following month, Bunsen had 
the satisfaction of being allowed to pay a few short 
visits to M. de Tocqueville, and would gladly have 
gone oftener and stayed longer, but the precarious 
state of the invalid (evident to every one but himself) 
made it necessary to take extreme precautions against 


ZEr, 67] HIS LIFE AT CANNES. BBS 


his being over-fatigued or excited. The conversation 
of M. Gustave de Beaumont (the friend and afterwards 
the biographer of Tocqueville) often came in to supply 
the place to Bunsen of an anticipated interview with 
his dying friend, when it happened that the drive to 
Montfleuri proved ineffectual. He was of the number 
of those present at the funeral, which took place at 
Cannes, 20th April. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. | Cannes: 3rd January, 1859. 


We are living here in Paradise; the ancients tell of 
the Islands of the Blessed, and they must have had Cannes 
in view. Beyond the sea, on the edge of which we dwell, 
to behold each day the morning-star and the sun on first 
emerging; again to see the sun disappear in splendour 
behind the Siebengebirge (here called Estérel) ; to have a 
pier extending 200 yards into the sea, like a petrified vessel, 
the lighthouse as its prow; 12° of Réaumur in the shade ; 
our rooms all towards this southern magnificence, and my 
study having a terrace on one side, on which I can pace up 
and down as often as I desire more air than my open 
window admits ! 

T write, each morning, at the ‘ Life of Jesus,’ as it shall 
be printed, God willing. The principal matter is, however, 
to carry out boldly the idea which, im 1850, I timidly 
touched upon,—that the historical Christ has a history only 
lasting thirty months, but the spiritual (Christ in the con- 
gregation) a history of 1800 years: and that when you 
have exhausted the purely historical, the more general and 
spiritual side of the subject demands just acknowledgment. 
Thus, after sifting the histories of His birth and parentage, 
and, I hope, fully explaining them, the Introduction closes 
with ‘the eternal (ever-renewed) birth of Christ in the 


934 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


Soul and in Humanity,’—or the Incarnation; which, 
hitherto, was treated mystically (that is, without clear per- 
ception) or sentimentally ; and which must be brought into 
view as a solemn reality from the innermost consciousness 
of what constitutes life in Christ, and what is craved by 
the universal conscience of the nations of the world— 
‘Christ yesterday, to-day, and for ever.’ .. . 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: 31st January, 1859. 


We are all improving, but till the 20th my wife and I 
have both had to contend with the consequences of influ- 
enza. Having at last dismissed the enemy, we experience 
the full blessing of this incomparable climate, of our ex- 
quisite tranquillity, and of sea-prospect from the Maison 
Pinchinat. I can already walk quickly for half an hour at 
a time without pausing, and I walk out daily three or four 
times, or drive to Ernest’s Villa Ripére, on a height not far 
from Lord Brougham’s. Our house is the last of the town, 
towards France, or the first of villas; for most people seem 
to be afraid of the close neighbourhood of the sea, which is 
immediately under our witidow, or cannot bear the cease- 
less roar or murmur of the waves, which is, after light and 
sunshine, to me the greatest of enjoyments. We have ob- 
tained this abode comparatively cheap—ten rooms, and a 
terrace to the south, on which my study opens. Then I 
find my work so successful here that I have accomplished 
more already than would have been possible in the whole 
winter at Heidelberg. I shall try to remain here as long as 
possible, therefore, till Easter Tuesday, 26th April... . 


Bunsen to a Son. 
(Translation. ] Cannes: 5th March, 1859. 


We had a delightful day (yesterday). Charles had 
arrived the day before. We drove to Napoule (Neapolis), 


ZEr. 67] THE ‘LIFE OF JESUS’ 335 


and climbed the path among the rocks, in which your 
mother and I were not among the last. To-morrow we shall 
drive to see the popular festivity—an hour’s drive from 
hence, on the Golfe de Jouan, towards Antibes—held on 
the first Sunday after the 1st March, the day of Napoleon’s 
landing from Elba, originating with the people. 

My political views are the same as before—the Austrian 
Government in Italy, and the military occupation and con- 
tinual interference in countries not belonging to it, is no 
concern of Germany; and the sooner the abomination ceases 
the better for Austria herself. England and Germany are 
strong enough to prevent Italy from becoming a province 
of France. Palmerston’s speech utters serious facts, not 
the less true for the ironical form. Vetter Michel* is seized 
with madness (by his misconception of the drift of the 
belligerents), after a poisoning-process of years, by the 
infusion of Austrian and Ultramontane falsehoods. .. . 


Extract from a Journal. 


Cannes: 5th March, 1859. 


We were early fetched from our hotel to breakfast at 
the Maison Pinchinat, standing on the very edge of the 
beautiful bay. All the party are bright and thankful in 
seeing Bunsen so much better, and able to work again and 
to enjoy visits from bis friends. He took us out on the 
balcony overhanging the bright silvery sea, and seemed to 
drink in all its beauty ;—its calm seemed to be reflected on 
his face, which never looked more radiant or more full of 
satisfaction. He has his own home-circle around him, and 
Ernest and Elizabeth and their children near. He is full 
of hope for Italy, repeated passages from Lord Palmerston’s 
speech, and gave usa little insight into French and Austrian 
politics ; he is sure that war must come... . 


* A nickname for Germans. 


306 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: Friday, 25th March, 1859. 


By the 4th March I had so far finished the ‘Life of 
Jesus’ that, besides general revision, only a few chapters of 
the earlier period of teaching remained to be completed, 
for which completion I have need first to see how the ex- 
planation of the Gospels shapes itself under my hands, in 
order to know what I have still, critically or demonstra- 
tively, to treat in the ‘ Life.’ . . . 

The thing essential is to hold fast the eternal, which is 
beyond the conditions of time. When one has arrived at 
the conviction that the Kingdom of God does not begin 
beyond this earth, but is to be founded and perfected upon 
this earth, as far as the earthly can attain perfection; then 
one enquires, ‘ Where is Eternity ?’ To which the Gospel 
gives the same answer as to the question, ‘Where is the 
Eternal ? ’—viz. Where the bottom of the sea is when 
we contemplate its billows and tides, its smooth surface 
and breaking waves—invisible, and yet necessarily pre- 
supposed! No one ever perceived this more clearly, no 
one had a more vivid and enduring present consciousness 
of it, than Jesus—whethe as represented by the Evan- 
gelists or by St. John. All this appears clearly to lie 
before me. I utter my belief in the notes, courageously 
and unreservedly, as the spirit prompts me; and, on the ~ 
whole, I am sure that I have been successful. .. . 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[Translation | April, 1859. 
Heavy times are coming, as I have long anticipated, 
yet I hope nothing will come in the way of my return to 
Cannes by November 1. It is a hermit family life that we 
lead, not without stimulating and instructive communica- 
tion from without. 
15th April._Tocqueville still breathed yesterday evening, 
but unconscious, or at least speechless, 


ZB. 67] DEATH OF TOCQUEVILLE. 337 


20th April.—The steamer from Marseilles is not yet in 
sight——the faithful Ampére, if he arrives, will be too late 
for the funeral solemnity. 

30th April. — Ampére was informed of the death of 
Tocqueville at Marseilles, and arrived here the next day in 
time for the funeral. I had replied immediately to his 
telegraphic enquiry. He must now have long since reached 
Rome again. 





Bunsen to 
[Translation. ] Cannes: Easter Tuesday, 26th April, 1859. 


You ought (as the King said of myself) to come out 
once more into the genuine Prussian vital air, and to 
confer with friends and the (real) men of the day about 
the actual present. The air of the Rhine-valley is im- 
pregnated with priestly intrigue and agitation, and en- 
grossed by that Austro-Germanic phantom, which in 
1848-49 inveigled Gagern and Frankfort and Radowitz 
and Germany into the abyss, there to perish. 

That Prussia should (by the Peace of Basle) get out of 
that madly-undertaken war of political infatuation was felt 
as a necessity, by Pitt equally with ourselves; and that we, 
seven years later, in 1805, stood aloof in the hour of con- 
flict, was as much the fault of Austrian arrogance and 
faithlessness, as of our own irresolution. But then, a 
portion of Germany was actually invaded, whereas now 
Germany is not even threatened, but more secure than 
ever, under the guardianship and protection of Prussia. 
Now we have before us an European question, in short the 
essential question which has demanded solution ever since 
1832, not to say since 1817—the Papal and Jesuit rule, and 
the Austrian tyranny in Italy, against all treaties, not 
merely without the sanction of treaties. 

Has not every effort been made, on all sides, for thirty- 
six years to bring Austria to reason? Have not all the 
faithful and sagacious among European statesmen, including 
Canning, foretold to them what now has happened ? namely, 

VOL. II. Z 


338 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


that Austria would irresistibly provoke the power of France 
(as the history of half a century shows) to dislodge her 
from her brutal supremacy over Italy. Has not Austria 
slighted all warnings, persecuted and stigmatised all those 
diviners of truth, as well as all the moderate and earnest 
patriots of Italy. Has she not been continually imposing 
on her stronger chains and heavier burdens? But it is 
said, ‘ Who could think that Austria would be so obstinate?’ 
Nay, who could expect any other conduct? Only those 
who expect the Pope to become Gallican, Anglican, or 
Lutheran! Should Austria to-morrow evacuate Central 
Italy, the day after to-morrow it will be in the hands of the 
national party, which is now monarchical, not republican 
—conservative, not revolutionary. Then the system of that 
arrogant House will be struck down, and what more could 
be the result, even of an unsuccessful war P 

And now, what cause will be served by the agitation of 
these furious foes of France? 1. That of the Pope and 
the Jesuits. 2. That of the prolongation of Austrian 
tyranny. Therefore, its tendency is against our essential 
life, against Protestantism and confessional freedom, against 
Prussia, against the German Federal State! France and 
Russia are opponents #f a German Federal State, but the 
House of Austria alone is directly antagonistic to Germany 
herself. I will not conjure up the shades of Olmiitz and 
Dresden, but I must be spared the argument of Basle! 

This I utter, as a statesman grown gray, and as one who 
has endeavoured to take a lesson from the sufferings of the 
period from 1848 to 1850; but what I feel most heavy upon 
my heart is this :—It is the first time that the ruling public 
opinion of the moment in Germany contemptibly and piti- 
lessly renounces a great and noble cause, rebels against the 
providential agency of God in favour of a hardly-tried 
people, and that Protestants not only kiss the political but 
also the spiritual fetters, and lastly, that the organs of this 
public opinion either ignore, or wilfully distort, the reality 


SET. 67] THE WAR IN ITALY. 339 


of facts. Retribution is infallibly in store for this ; as surely 
as the levity of unripe politicians in 1848 met with its 
punishment and more deservedly. Is there no protecting 
instinct left against direct falsehood and childish misrepresen- 
tation ? Is there no Protestant instinct left, for or against P 
And is this wrath an ebullition of spirit ? Alas! too many 
are actuated by fear alone. ‘Germany cannot defend itself 
against France but by the aid of Austria,’ was written in 
the ‘Edinburgh Review,’ of April last. Without Austria / 
who herself gave notice, after 1815, that she could and would 
no longer defend Germany beyond the Danube—and, there- 
fore, ridiculed the idea of fortifying Rastadt! Austria! who 
in 1815 sent not a man to fight in Belgium for the common 
cause against Napoleon! In the policy of France and 
Russia may well be comprised the necessity of resisting a 
monster of seventy millions horse-power, such as the entire 
German Empire; but the same danger exists not in a Fede- 
ral collective State when once released by the Cesarean 
operation from the strangling navel-string of the House of 
Lorraine. The word uttered at Kremsier is the only solu- 
tion.* 

Now all has burst forth, all that I had on my mind, not 
against you, but against the air of the Rhine, to say nothing 
of that of Southern Germany. On this account I must give 
up going to the banks of the Rhine, where I should scandal- 
ise others, and be vexed myself. At Heidelberg I could not 
remain two days, were it not for necessary work, for I have 
no inclination to dispute on first principles with G. and M. 

Ath May.—This time I shall not enter into the question 


* This refers to a remarkable speech by the late Prince Schwartzen- 
berg, then Prime Minister, before the Austrian Parliament assembled 
at Kremsier, in 1848: ‘Let Austria consolidate herself into one body 
politic,—let Germany consolidate herself into another,—and on the day 
when both these processes shall have been completed, let both agree on 
a form of good understanding and close union.’ Austria and Prince 
Schwartzenberg himself soon abandoned this saving thought,—with 
what results the year 1866 has shown. 


zZ2 


840 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


which of the many dangers is the most threatening to our 
beloved German fatherland—my joy is almost too great, I 
mean the joy of beholding another nation, at least, and that 
the one which Germany and France have oppressed, the one 
for 800, and the other for 300 years, rising from prostration, 
and brave not in words only but in deeds of arms, going 
forth not in the anarchy of despair, but in the legality of 
hope and faith in the future, under the visible protection of 
Providence, to set free the first-born daughter of Christian 
civilisation. 


Contemporary Letter to a Daughter-in-Law, who had written to 
expluin that she could not visit Heidelberg. 


Charlottenberg: 26th May, 1859. 

I comfort myself that your not coming is providential. 
You can form no idea of the discomfort of the state of public 
feeling. There is a complex of nonsense brewed together 
into a poison, producing intoxication and a cloud over the 
intellect, in the case of almost every one you speak to; only 
Herr von Dusch, as an old statesman and diplomatist, upon 
whom Bunsen first called, looked upon things in the same 
light as himself; as do¢és also Gervinus, who latterly could 
hardly venture to go out but in the dusk, lest stones should 
have been thrown at him! The public mind has been worked 
upon (certainly by agitators) to such a pitch that Prussian 
travellers have been warned to keep out of sight, and not ap- 
pear at the table d’hdte, lest they should be insulted ! because 
Prussia, though well prepared and ready for war, intends 
to keep out of it, if she can; whereas the Southern States 
are, in fact, calling upon others to enter into the war which 
they presuppose and are endeavouring to kindle, not being 
themselves in any way prepared—having neither fortresses 
provided, nor regiments equipped. But enough, and too 
much! I tremble at every conversation, lest Bunsen should 
not put a guard upon his expressions, and pain those who 
are bound by their material interests to Austria. It is fear- 


4ET. 67] RETURNS TO CHARLOTTENBERG. Al 


ful to discover how many are entangled financially in the 
Austrian losses. . . 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] Charlottenberg : Whitsuntide, 1869. 


We arrived on the 20th May, in the finest sunshine, after 
days of heavy rain in Switzerland. In Geneva and Basle I 
had conversations both literary and political; the latter 
turned upon the great point which now occupies all heads 
and many hearts. On my journey to the South, in the 
beginning of December, I had to urge upon the unbelieving, 
deep sunk in the slumber of peace, the fact that war in Italy 
was at hand; this time 1 had to endcavour to persuade the 
thoroughly disturbed that peace was near, particularly in 
case of Palmerston’s return to the Ministry. From the state 
of deliriam into which the South of Germany is plunged, I 
was fortunate in recalling my friends in Switzerland, but 
not my friends here! With the exception of Gervinus and 
Schenkel, all desire to rush into a war with France, in order 
to help Austria—some, however, would rather wait till the 
immediate necessity shall have actually appeared. Those 
who, with Austria, endeavour to kindle a war, are,—a, the 
Priests; b, the Dynasties, which prop themselves up by 
means of Austria; c, the holders of Austrian State bonds ; 
d, the Ultramontanes of 1848. They may be classed as 
—reactionary and actionary, Ultramuntane and Ultra-Mon- 
tagne. All that will not signify, if only (as 1 firmly hope) 
Prussia will go forward with the declaration that Ger- 
many shall not be dragged into war! ... 


Bunsen’s departure from the beloved South, on the 
14th May, 1859, took place in a happy consciousness 
of improved health, and with the hope of returning 
before the close of the year. The journey by voi- 
turier, as far as Aix in Provence (where the railway 
could first be joined), was attended by the unwonted 


342 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


spectacle of a succession of French regiments, cheer- 
ful, well appointed, and orderly, on their way to the 
fields of Magenta and Solferino. Bunsen had followed 
the development of events during the last winter 
with his accustomed fervour of anticipation, and, 
with his usual hopefulness, reckoned upon success 
more complete to the Italian cause than was at once 
to be granted ; but having gone deeper than most of 
his contemporaries into the causes of the abasement 
of Italy, and estimating her capacity and her deserts 
at a rate not usuaily admitted among Germans, he 
considered that to rejoice in the prospect of her 
freedom and independence, and to believe in a high 
career of distinction among nations as reserved for 
her, were things of course. He was therefore not 
prepared for the state of universal feeling against 
Italy, and for the frantic enthusiasm in the cause of 
Austrian preponderance, which he found first in 
Switzerland on his way, and in yet greater intensity 
in the South of Germany. It was a new and painful 
experience to him to be expatriated in the midst of 
his own country, by the necessity of closing up in 
silence opinions that glowed with the heart’s fire, and 
were rooted in the convictions of his life. For few 
indeed were those who would attend with patience to 
his attempts, by reason and argument, to stem the 
current of convictions, the harder to be dealt with, as 
not being grounded in any tangible reality of fact, 
but resting on catchwords, ‘jealousies and fears.’ 
The prevailing sequence of argument would seem 
to have been ‘ Italy is not an object for which the 
French Emperor would pour forth his hundreds of 


ZEn, 67] SYMPATHY WITH ITALY. 343 


thousands, therefore it is the conquest of Germany 
that he intends; and therefore Germany must rise, 
and march to Paris to dictate a peace.’ Let it not 
be thought that such sentiments or expressions have 
been fabricated by subsequent fancy. On the contrary, 
every variety of cadence and variation was framed and 
reiterated on the tone that sounds through them : 
and individuals, whether insignificant or of weight, 
who risked ever so mild a dissonance, were subjected, 
in Heidelberg and elsewhere, to one form or other of 
proscription. The circumstance that Prussians were 
ut this time not merely railed at, but exposed to insult 
when venturing as single travellers into a mixed com- 
pany of Southern Germans, is a clue to the origin of 
the volcanic explosion of 1859, and perhaps the only 
one, until the time shall come for bringing to light 
the documentary history of the present day,—as has 
been done with that of the Seven Years’ War* now 
known to have been both roused and kept up by the 
universal efforts of the Romanist clergy, bound by 
authoritative commands to effect the destruction of 
the one only Protestant power of the Continent. 

In the extracts given trom letters, a few hints may 
be observed of the discomfort experienced by Bunsen 
in contemplating the state of the public mind. Had 
health and life been granted, much on this subject 
would have entered into those additional comments 
on the ‘ Signs of the Times,’ which he promised him- 
self to add to that work on the ‘ Life of Luther,’ 
which now only exists in the compressed sketch form- 
ing the article in the ‘Encyclopedia Britannica.’ 

* See Wutke, Geschichte Schlosiens. 


344, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


This experience of life sunk deep with Bunsen, and 
caused a momentary longing for removal to a scene 
of different interest and activity. It would seem that 
his friends had supposed that when he was in Berlin 
in the preceding autumn, he would have applied for 
the appointment of Envoy to the Swiss Cantons, 
resident at Berne, as a post of repose in his latter 
years: it could hardly be offered to him, after the 
higher position that he had held, but would have 
been granted at his request. During a short absence 
of his wife in 1859, at Wildbad, she was surprised by 
a letter, stating the prospect as follows :— 


[ Translation. | Charlottenberg : Monday, 25th July, 1859. 


A thought having occurred to me, beloved, without seck- 
ing it, which was yesterday (Sunday) morning as new as it 
will now be to you, I will now talk it over with yon, before 
I mention it to the children. If nothing should eome of 
it, there would equally be a reply to the inquiry that we 
address to Providence. 

May not the moment’ be come for applying for the Le- 
gation in Switzerland for myself? There is no Court, no 
representation! As Rochow said, ‘ Cattle and nature, beau- 
tiful,’—to which we add, ‘ Country and inhabitants good and 
free.’ In the German and in the French Switzerland we 
have valued friends right and left. The vexed question of 
Neufchatel is happily settled ; the Prince will in all sincerity 
maintain fnendship with the country, whose goodwill is 
courted by powerful rivals, with the two Emperors at their 
head : the nearest future will not alter this state of things, 
but will probably throw more light upon it. I can in 
Switzerland continue, and, please God, finish, the work of 
my life quite as well as here: indeed, as I have often thought 
and said, Switzerland is the proper soil of German tongue 
and evangelical spirit for my ‘ Bibelwerk’ and ‘ God-Con- 


ZET. 67] SWISS LEGATION THOUGHT OF. 345 


sciousness’ to take root in. Professor Schweizer, at Zurich, 
—Rillet, at Geneva,—Edgar Quinet, at Montreux! In case 
of need I could pass the winter at Montreux, instead of at 
Cannes; and to Cannes we should be two days’ journey 
nearer than from hence. Political concerns would not cost 
me more time there than they do here, with writing and 
speaking. And here all becomes intolerable! The hatred 
against Prussia is daily growing worse. Gervinus was a 
few days ago cast out of the Club, for having spoken in 
defence of Prussia! The Concordat with Rome, and bitter 
railings against Prussia, is the order of the day in the 
Carlsruhe newspaper. Vexation at all this has made me 
restless. 


His next letter, dated 30th July, begins as fol- 
lows :— 


[ Translation. ] 


What a comfort and joy, that you accept the idea of 
Berne so entirely and so joyfully, new and unprepared as it 
came to you! I have thereupon written to , and his 
reply to the confidential communication leaves nothing to 
be desired. Now that this has been done, I think no more 
of the matter, and I have not the feeling as if anything 
would come of it... . 





Bunsen to his Wife. (At Wildbad.) 
[Translation. | 2nd August, 1859. 


My last letter contained significant words which will have 
prepared you for what might else be incomprehensible. 
Switzerland is given up. I felt that my inward spirit was 
never satistied or tranquillised in the resolution to leave 
Germany. Soon after I had written to you, it knocked so 
loud that I was obliged to hear. I cannot, because I ought 
not to leave Germany: that would not be to remain on the 
height of my determination in 1854. It would be emigra- 
tion: for I should never return ! 


346 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


Here, or at Berlin to close my life—that J feel to be my 
calling, and for that I feel courage and strength. Should I 
have no call, Jremain whereI am. ‘ Wo du bist, da bleib,’ 
as Luther says. ... 7 


The plan of removal was given up, but the rest- 
lessness remained, which prompted removal; and 
never was the fulness of conscious life and power 
more observable in Bunsen or the belief in his own 
ability to meet the demands of public interests that 
might be confided to him, than in this, the closing 
year of actual buoyant life. The position originally 
held by Leibnitz at the head of the Academy of 
Sciences at Berlin was at one time about to be offered 
to him; but the project remained unexecuted for 
want of the funds necessary for a new endowment, 
and for placing the institution upon an improved 
system. It will be observed that the virulent hatred 
against Prussia, existing throughout Germany, is 
commented upon in the very saine letter which speaks 
of the sums disbursed to place the Prussian army on 
a war-footing for the defence of the common father- 
land against an aggression which was supposed to be 
imminent,—for which act of patriotism no thanks 
were considered due; on the contrary irritation was 
increased by the very spectacle of the power and 
preponderance of the one Protestant State, the one 
only rival of Austria, to whom the all-pervading, in- 
ostensible dictators of public feeling would give the 
undivided leadership of Germany. The fact of power 
and preponderance alone, without the existence of 
injuries to resent, is shown to be quite sufficient 
ground for the unsparing national hatred entertained 


ZEr. 68] VISITS PARIS. 347 


by a great proportion of Germans (whether Protes- 
tant or Romanist) against England; but the confes- 
sional ground of proscription takes in a far greater 
number of minds in Germany than that of jealousy of 
greatness. ‘The power and preponderance of Prussia, 
less in degree, gives more umbrage in fact than that 
of England, by being close at hand, within mea- 
surement, and supposed capable of being crushed. 
Which consummation may God avert! and that He 
will avert it, let others believe, with as firm a faith 
as Bunsen ever held !* 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. ] - Charlottenberg: 23rd October, 1859. 


.. . 2nd November.—Next winter, if I live, I shall not 
leave home ; I suffer too much by being separated from my 
library. My departure is fixed, please God, for Friday, the 
11th, right through to Paris. 


Bunsen to his Wife. (From Paris.) 
[Translation. | Paris: 24th November, 1859. 

I have just rejoiced over your letter from Basle. I think 
you will be soonest found at Charlotte Kestner’s, and 
therefore shall recommend this letter to her kindness. That 
amiable image of our never-to-be-forgotten Kestner com- 
bines, as he did, the heart full of loving-kindness with an 
ever-lively and fresh intelligence. 

I run up and down stairs daily at the Louvre and the 
Libliothéque ; and in the evening am very often occupied in 
conversation until eleven o’clock. In the morning, friends 
call from nine to twelve o’clock. I am imbibing a new 


* All the above passages were written before 1866. The events of 
that year have, indeed, confirmed the views and the hopes here ex- 
pressed. 


348 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1869 


world, and enjoy speaking to persons who think and know 
much. ... Cobden is here, still laid low by fever: yet it is 
believed that the danger of a more serious illness is past. 
His sojourn at Paris, and his life altogether, are of the 
greatest importance. 

My assertions as to the continuance of peace, and the 
Emperor’s pacific sentiments, met with universal oppo- 
sition at first; but now people begin to find out that I was 
right. The weather is incomparable; sunshine and a mild 
temperature. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. } 


Hotel de l’Univers, Lyons: Sunday, 4th December, 1859. 

Last night, having happily arrived, I found my dear 
family arrived before me after a cold journey ; and after a 
somewhat lengthened rest, 1 feel refreshed in the rooms, 
which want nothing but the presence of the kind friend 
who awaited us here in May last. My head and heart are 
so full, that I can write but a few poor lines. I have the 
entire fortnight of a whole life-period before me, and I long 
for the rest and stillness of my earthly paradise, to be able 
to arrange and put in order my impressions before I can 
write them down. But first of all 1 must express my thank- 
ful affection in return for your inexhaustible kindness and 
care—upon which my thoughts were for ever dwelling, 
during the somewhat too long, but agreeable drive of eleven 
hours... . 


Bunsen to a Son, 
[ ‘Translation. | Cannes: Friday, 9th December, 1859. 


In spite of remains of a cold, I am better than I ever 
was last year. With all the excitement and fatigue I went 
through at Paris, I was yet strengthened and refreshed 
there, bodily and mentally. I was received with the 
greatest distinction—and found all my powers called forth 
enjoyably in a congenial circle of independent minds belong- 


JET. 68] CONGENIAL SOCIETY. 349 


ing to various parties, who had been drawn to a point of 
union by my researches, or felt an attraction towards my- 
self; and I felt on my side an inward experience of that in 
which the French are before us, and of that in which we 
have the superiority over them ;—we, in research,—they, in 
the power of combining research and its results with the 
consciousness of the cultivated classes and the needs of the 
present time. They had supposed me personally more of 
an anchorite than they found me, and my books more 
learned than myself: and what they in reality encountered 
proved acceptable from first to last. I lived there as in a 
dream; conversation-hours, from nine o’clock to twelve, 
and again from three to five: from twelve to three, sights 
and visits: from five to six, sleeping, before the social 
campaign from seven to twelve. Speech and thought 
became unloosed, which before had seemed bound, in the 
society of such men as Mignet, Villemain, Cousin, Labou- 
laye, Renan, Milsand, Saisset, Pressensé, Bersier, Parieu, 
Michel Chevalier. The last-named insists upon my being 
presented to the Emperor (on my supposed return by Paris 
in May)—in order to speak to him of the mode of constitu- 
ting self-government in cities. The great work of peace is 
quietly progressing between the Emperor and Cobden, and 
will have wonderful results; Cobden makes full use of the 
‘franc parler’ allowed him; and he assures me he can only 
confirm what both Lord Palmerston and Lord John had 
said to him beforehand—that there has never been before 
upon the French throne a Monarch and Ally so trustworthy 
and. desirous of peace as Louis Napoleon. Gladstone has 
behaved admirably. We shall therefore have peace! And 
Non-intervention! That is all that is needed by the noble- 
minded, brave, wise, and moderate individuals and people 
of Italy. The Jesuits and their patrons will not return. 

I have contended much with Legitimists and Orleanists,— 
the spirit was moved in me to utter my convictions of 
truth. There is a want of political wisdom among them : 


300 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1859 


they are influenced by hatred and vexation,—vexation, 
when He does what they dislike, and yet greater, when He 
does that which they would have reserved for themselves 
to do. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] 
Cannes: Saturday morning, 10th December, 1859. 

Theodore’s appointment to the Japanese Expedition re- 

moves a weight from my heart. God be thanked! 
He will enter with one leap into the midst of a fine carecr, 
without the senseless, time-killing, ultra-Chinese examina- 
tions ; without fagging in the business of provincial Courts 
or a government ofice—mediam in rem—as if we lived 
under a rational system, based upon division of labour, 
resting and reckoning upon intellectual cultivation, and 
not upon the training of a ‘maid of all work.’ After the 
present fashion our diplomatic body must sink to the 
lowest ebb. The fundamental error is supposing that the 
State is bound to find a position for every man who has 
passed his examination. Here our national infirmity—I 
mean, poverty—is in fault ; but still more the system which 
draws off the strength tf the nation into military and 
government offices. 

Nothing pleases me more than that you should have 
resolved thoroughly to study the great practical science of 
the century — National Economy. Should you fall into the 
German sin, of bringing forward matter to which the last 
rédaction is yet wanting—take it not too much to heart. 
Other nations consider this the principal point of impor- 
tauce—as I clearly saw more than ever when present at the 
meetings of the French Institute. Everyone must learn to 
know what his own nature requires ; I never make out the 
right rédaction in what I write, without having had my 
first well-worked draft transcribed, so that I can with ease 
read it to myself; and often does it happen to me to con- 
sider that first sketch as the work of the pedant (Pihilister) 


ZEr.68] THE STUDY OF NATIONAL ECONOMY. 801 


in me, and after having made beginning and end clear to my 
mind, I make a new thing of it, writing it out fair, with a 
new pen, wholly or in part. To address other minds is an 
art that must be learnt and exercised,—like every other, in- 
cluding elocution, which in our schools ought to be more 
practised than singing: the latter is for a few, the former 
for all; the one is an ornament, the other a want and a 
necessity. 

To judge from my own experience, I should say you 
would never enter well into National Econumy but by 
studying the thing from its very beginning. That truly 
great man, the Kepler and Copernicus of ‘the science,— 
Adam Smith, seems to me still to be the best guide in that 
subject. All subsequent writers, more or eas consciously, 
base their arguments on Adam Smith, presupposing the 
student to be already possessed of his reasonings and results ; 
and pass lightly over that, which with him is in the act of 
struggling into life. Of these the most thorough-going, 
but also the most tiresome, 1s Stuart Mill. He works out 
all speculative questions by the four rules of logic, instead 
of employing higher methods; which to us Germans is in- 
tolerable, though it may be a wholesome discipline. The 
work of Minghetti is of its kind the most justly constructed 
on the basis of universal humanity, because he ranks 
National Economy below the moral-political, without dis- 
torting or falsely conceiving (like Atkinson) the fundamental 
truths of the science. Among the English Ministers, Pal- 
merston and Gladstone understand the thing thoroughly ; 
the former was a pupil of the great man. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 


[Translation. | Cannes: 30th December, 1859. 


A blessed New Year, and peace, be to our hearts, to the 
world, to this deeply diseased and confused humanity! I 
must send these words before I seat myself in the carriage 
which is waiting to take us for the rest of this year to Nice, 


302 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


where I shall this day and to-morrow visit the Grand 
Duchess Stéphanie and the Dowager Countess Bernstorff. . . 

2nd January, 1860, sia o’clock, morning.—The manifesto 
pamphlet of the Emperor Napoleon is the greatest event of 
this century; for it announces the decisive resolution of the 
one man of power of the time, to execute with wisdom at the 
right moment what Napoleon I. undertook in the spirit of 
conquest and achieved by violence. However, the writing 
has its weak parts; the logical proof goes only so far as to 
make out that neither the Pope nor any other can or ought 
to reconquer the Romagna, and that the diplomatic form of 
Walewski is the right one: ‘The Pope loses nothing, he 
retains all that he really possessed.’ .. . 


To the Same. 
{'Translation. ] 14th January, 1860. 
The day before yesterday I received the noble publication 
of Azeglio. Nothing could be better! Iam preaching it up 
in Germany, where the lazy spirits will not catch fire! ... 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: 26th January, 1860. 

Early to-day I received,*by your kindness, a great piece 
of intelligence, for France, for the peace of Europe, for the 
freedom of Italy. Cobden is become the first diplomatist of 
the world. He has stimulated the Emperor to the boldest 
of deeds, to attack the most hateful prejudices, just in that 
part of the population where he used to have many friends. 
May God bless the work! ... 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[Translation. ] Cannes: Sunday, 29th January, 1860. 

I reckon upon not spending the two next winters in the 
South. At this moment, placed upon the Alps, my heart 
calls out, ‘Italia! Italia!’ beholding Rome before my feet. 
But,my calling is—personal teaching and influencing others. 
I feel so greatly revived as not to give up this hope. .. . 


JET. 68] THE CONFERENCES AT ROME IN 1832. Sod 


I am composing with spirit and success; if 1t please God, 
I may, in the spring of 1861, be able to give a course of 
lectures ‘on the Theory and History of the Consciousness 
of God,’ in the Aula at Bonn. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. | Cannes: 8th February, 1860. 


It were to be wished that some Member of Parliament, 
interested in the Italian question, should ask for the papers 
relating to the European Conferences at Rome on the Reform 
of the Papal States in 1832. They have never been laid be- 
fore Parliament, and they could not be refused now, whereas 
the current negotiations will at present be withheld. And 
even if they should be in part communicated, the question 
of 1859 cannot be understood without a knowledge of the 
proceedings and results of 1852, and of some documents of 
Pio Nono (by Rossi), from 1848 to 1850. Lord Palmerston, 
as a true statesman, mastering the domain of diplomacy as 
no one else does, 77 urope, has expressly pomted to those 
conferences of 1832, and whoever has read the documents 
of that period will subscribe to every word that he has said. 


Bunsen toa Son. 
{ Translation. | Cannes: Saturday, 1ith February, 1860, 


.... We have all been touched by your observations, 
Yes, indeed ! the Lord brings us to rest, after an agitated 
and yet happy hfe, and after the wanderings of forty years, 
not in the desert, but in the early paradise of life, whether 
beyond or on this side of the Alps. And now ‘is the lot 
fallen to us in a fair place ’—on the Rhine, on the western 
boundary-land of Germany, within a day’s journey of Eng- 
land—-among friends and the graves of friends (Niebuhr, 
and now again Arndt!) and in an University which has a 
high calling. The house prepared. for us, a family-house, 
spacious and as if contrived en purpose for us, with the 
Kiosk looking on the Rhine and the Seven Hills. Yes, my 

VOL. II. AA 


354 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. | {1860 


beloved son, how often do I think of my entrance into 
Rome on 30th Otcober, 1816 (the festival of the Reforma- 
tion), when I had hastened on before the voiturier, on foot 
and with a staff crossing the Tiber,—not without the con- 
sciousness of a Future before me ; and with a cheerful spirit 
advancing to the conflict with Rome and with the world,— 
the deep saying of your inspired grandfather, about ‘the 
blue sky of God ever above me’ (which you so feelingly 
mention) strong on my mind... . 

I am longing for personal intercourse with the nation, 
such as I can only have by assuming the office of an acade- 
mical teacher. Jaboulaye, in his three remarkable articles 
upon Saisset (‘ Essais de Philosophie religieuse,’ ‘ Journal 
des Débats, 1-5 February), has treated of my position re- 
lative to the abstract systems of philosophy from Descartes 
and Spinosa down to Schelling and Hegel, as well as to the 
empirical endeavours to prove the being of God; and has 
made a representation, such as I can, according to my ob- 
jects and ideal conceptions, accept as my thought. You 
must read those articles; they are somewhat too indi- 
vidually directed against Vacherot ; but in the main points 
are just. To me, the theory has been clear before my soul, 
ever since January 1816, when I wrote it in that little 
book which has ever since accompanied me. But I need‘to 
speak on these subjects; thereby to find the final, definite 
form for the Organon Reale. Soon, I hope, we shall have 
at Bonn two Universities—for the Polytechnic Institute 
must not be placed at Cologne, but at Bonn! .. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
{ Translation. | Cannes: Wednesday, 17th February, 1860. 
Should a biographical sketch of the life of Neukomm be 
made out, I would gladly (in Bonn, that is, in July or 
August) give, by way of an appendix, a life-picture of him 
according to the impressions of many years of domestic 
intercourse with him. . 


ZEr. 68] MR. THOMAS BIRCH. 355 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: February, 1860. 


A matter which I have much at heart concerns Mr. 
Birch, who wrote to me on the 25th October of last year, 
in answer to the expression of my wishes for him—‘It is 
just this day sixteen years that I obtained through yoar 
kindness my present post; let me thank you again for 
it.’ He has an invalid wife—must himself watch over the 
education of his three younger sons; and is so worn by 
excess of labour as to say, ‘The work that I have under- 
taken for your supplementary volume (which, however, 
will appear with both our names) will be the last. I have 
no more strength left. I dread change, or even promotion, 
because we are all (at the British Museum) nothing but 
storekeepers of a national magazine, and the head of the 
establishment is only chief storekeeper. All is as it was 
settled 100 years ago; the English nation 1s too materialistic 
to think of men; things are wanted, and machines for doing 
the daily business.’ Alas! this is but too true; but there 
is a better element in the nation, only one must call it 
forth by an outcry. Birch is a member of the ‘ Institut 
de France’ (which even Grote is not yet); de Rougé in 
his admirable commentary of 1858 upon a Stele in the 
Louvre (of Rameses X.) calls Birch ‘le maitre,’ and 
Lepsius declares, that Birch alone was capable of such a 
review, as he has made of the ‘Book of the Dead.’ And 
how was that work accomplished ?—In the midst of family 
cares and sufferings, and laborious, monotonous business— 
(every Saturday must each individual article of the col- 
lections pass under inspection, in order to attest their 
being all safe)—and of what importance is not this ex- 
planation P ‘The Book of the Dead’ is the most ancient 
Document of Religion on earth—the text being found on 
monuments of the eleventh dynasty, about 2,800 years 
before Christ, and already at that time held sacred !—and 
the sole genuine ancient document of mankind regarding 


Aa 2 


356 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


the development of the consciousness of God in mythology, 
which began to unfold towards 11,000 years before Christ, 
and which up to about 4,000 or 3,500 years before our era 
was evolved amid that race of men. In my ‘ Preface’ I 
have only reckoned up facts, and then declared the results. 
' Have they not a right at Paris and Berlin to wonder 
how such a man can be suffered to wear himself out in 
mechanical business? The means and leisure should long 
since have been granted to him to collect the materials 
still wanting for a critical collation of all portions of the 
‘Book of the Dead,’ by a journey through France, Italy, 
and Germany, in order to accomplish a complete edition. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Cannes: 8th March, 1860. 


The malicious diary of Varnhagen has given sufficient 
scandal. Iam glad that the suppression of the book was 
rescinded; society ought spontaneously to carry out its 
sentence against the woman who published it. As far as I 
am, concerned, all my letters to Humboldt, and his to me, 
might be published; his are as far as mine from contain- 
ing anything disrespectful towards the Royal friend of 
each... . But you all make too much uproar about the 
gossip of Varnhagen; before twenty years have passed, 
very diferent things will have been revealed. I must, how- 
ever, have the book sent to me. 

16th March.—V arnhagen’s outpouring is the revenge of 
a ‘barbarian tamed in courts,’ as he styled himself, with 
his own signature, in Mrs. Schwabe’s album ; systemati- 
cally giving way to a malicious spirit, wounded by ill- 
usage experienced in 1820, and who hated me because I 
had never sought his acquaintance, and because he could 
not comprehend me. We never met but at the table of 
Prince Augustus. The man was uncongenial to me as an 
egotist and a negation; and men like Niebuhr, Stein, 
Schleiermacher, kept aloof from him. But the terrible part 


Air. 68] VARNHAGEN’S ‘ DIARY,’ joe 


of the book, to my feeling, is the maxim of Humboldt, pre- 
fixed as a motto: ‘One owes the truth only to those whom 
one deeply esteems.’ That is as bad as the worst utter- 
ances of Jesuitism. Jam of opinion that Varnhagen, and, 
through him, Ludmilla Assing, is completely empowered 
by Humboldt to publish the whole; but not, therefore, 
justified in doing so while the King is alive. That is in- 
human and immoral. | 

It is very difficult with dignity and truth to say any- 
thing about what concerns myself. It were mean to re- 
mark upon trifles: and to declare the whole truth without 
exposing the King to animadversion is scarcely possible. 
The nonsense about the two Archbishops is a proof of Varn- 
hagen’s half comprehension ; Humboldt must have alluded 
to a letter which the King desired me to write to the Arch- 
bishop, that is, of Canterbury ; and he must have made at 
the same time a witticism upon my always getting into 
archiepiscopal complications (Freiburg, Maintz), and thus 
the absurdity must have origmated. In short, I shall leave 
the thing to ripen with me—meanwhile I finish ‘ Egypt,’ 
and then it will be time enough to know what to do. Pray 
give a kind message from mc to the excellent Lange ! 

The Ides of March, in the year of salvation 13860, are 
come and gone, and never did they bring to humanity a 
finer gift than in the Scrutuniwm yesterday closed in Central 
Italy, when almost three millions of men have declared that 
they will live and die for one united Italy. At the utmost 
ten per cent. minority in Tuscany, in Romagna but one per 
cent. The demeanour of all has been dignified, and edify- 
ing to contemplate. The peace of the world will be pre- 
served, in spite of the spirit of evil. God be thanked!.. . 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
{ Translation. ] Cannes: 11th May, 1860. 
You know what a hard blow has fallen upon us !—but 
here again has the love and providence of God shown itself 
—helping and saving. 


358 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


A fall, utterly without fault or heedlessness,—from an ll- 
secured wooden flight of steps, which fell upon her while 
lying on a stone staircase, more than twenty feet below, 
might have caused death. The consequence must be a 
shortening of the limb, but, it may be hoped, not very con- 
siderably. Thus our fifth daughter may be again restored 
to us, as the second was! Matilda has shown all the 
clearness and strength of mind, resignation and resolution, 
which we believed her to be possessed of; and all admire 
her. We may hope by the 20th August to be again united 
in our home. I have been in a suffering state latterly—. 
much troubled by symptoms which deprive me of nightly 
repose. I have received all your kind communications 
about Paris, and regret having given you so much trouble 
on account of a sojourn there, which now cannot take 
place. My wife has been wonderfully supported through 
this heavy time. Frances is our helper in all things: we 
can hardly comprehend how we are to live without her. 
Meanwhile, Emilia, with George, has unpacked and ar- 
ranged everything in our new house at Bonn. I have, on 
account of illness, not been able to finish everything—still 
much has been sent off. I continue firm in my assertion, 
that there will be no war in Europe. Yet the Emperor has 
made great mistakes. 


Bunsen to a Son. 
[ Translation, ] Monday, 8th May, 1860. 


We are borne as on angel’s wings by the love and care 
of our children. Theodore is as ready as love itself for any 
possible sacrifice; but his embarkation from Trieste is fixed 
for the evening of the 26th,—and so our days here are 
numbered, 

I have finished a piece of hard work, which was a weight 
on my conscience, a retrospective view of the chronological 
system for the period between Moses and Joseph,—from the 
nineteenth dynasty to the twelfth. That the method I 


AT. 68] REMARKS ON BIBLE CHRONOLOGY. 309 


have pursued is the best of all as yet tried, and the only 
one justifiable, is confirmed to me: and it has also the 
recommendation of revealing the real result of the chrono- 
logy of Manetho. But for the time of the Hyksos, all con- 
trol is wanting, 1f Manctho is to be our guide. Therefore, 
after justifying with new arguments the method which I have 
hitherto followed, I declare myself in favour of the simple 
restoration of the reckoning of Hratosthenes and of Apollodorus. 
The Bible-history is hereby touched only so far as regards 
the date of Joseph, that is of the entrance into Egypt, and 
therefore, also, that of Abraham. The whole frame of 
history remains as it 1s; neither the Asiatic nor the 
Egyptian histories are concerned in the alteration, only 
the number of years taken away from the period between 
Menes and Amos is transferred to the more considerable 
period of political development immediately before Menes. 
According to this view, the Jews were only eight centuries 
anda halfin Egypt, from the entrance to the Exodus, of 
which 215 years formed the time of servitude, beginning 
under Thutmoses II. | 

The matter of Schleswig-Holstein might have been 
brought forward more diplomatically than has been the 
case with reference to the rest of Europe ; the difficulty can 
only be met with this syllogism :—Holstein belongs to the 
German Confederation ; Holstein is connected by privileges 
and duties with Schleswig; Holstein has claimed protection 
from the Confederation, wherefore for these privileges also. 


a 
sri TERE Ta 


mt 


il borne 





RUSIDENCEH, OF BUNSEN AT BONN, 


CHAPTER XX. 


THE LAST YEAR OF LIFE.—NOVEMBER 1809 TO 
NOVEMBER 1860. 


CENTENARY OF SCHI LLER'’S BIRTH—BUNSEN FINALLY LEAVES HEIDELBERG 
—JOURNEY TO PARIS AND CANNES—FAMILY TROUBLES—JOURNEY Tv 
BONN—PURCHASE OF A HOUSE THERE—VISITS FROM HIS CHILDREN AND 
THEIR FAMILIES—HIS LAST BIRTHDAY, AUGUST 25, 1860—INCREASE OF 
SUFFERING-—TAKES TO HIS BED, OCTOBER 28, 1860—RalLLIES AGAIN— 
HIS DEATH, NOVEMBER 28, 1860-—-HIS FUNERAL, DECEMBER J], 1860— 
CLOSING REMARKS. 


Tur month of November 1859 found Bunsen, as we 
have seen, still in Heidelberg, earnestly labouring to 


Air, 68} CENTENARY OF SCHILLER'S BIRTH. 301 


finish and send off the promised portion of his ‘ Bibel- 
werk,’ that he might feel free for the journey by Paris 
to Cannes, where the experience of the preceding year 
had been encouraging as to the effect of sea air and 
a southern climate in alleviating his habitual suffer- 
ing. He was eager and impatient to be gone, dread- 
ing the winter which had set in early and with an 
unusual degree of gloom and inclemency ; but he was 
also full of solemn emotion at the prospect of leav- 
ing the beautiful spot in which he had dwelt many 
years, and the cheerful room filled as it were with 
his thoughts, in which he had worked with so much 
energy and satisfaction. The vision of being ulti- 
mately settled at Bonn, and of entering there on a 
new course of mental activity and influence over the 
young, also occupied him much, although as yet no 
suitable house had been found; but he entertained 
no doubt that this difficulty would eventually be re- 
moved, and he grasped in idea the home of his own, 
which was to be the last he should occupy on earth, 
and not far from which was the spot destined for his 
grave. 

The celebration of the centenary festival of Schiller’s 
birth was partly witnessed by Bunsen and with pecu- 
har interest, for he had the most truly German heart, 
and gloried in every thing and every person who did 
honourto Germany. On the morning of that celebra- 
tion he drove into Heidelberg to see the procession 
of the dignitaries of the University and of the Town- 
Corporation, with a portion of the students and all the 
trades; and he heard some of the speeches in the 
hall of the University. But this was the last time in 


362 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


which he was able to take part in a national demon- 
stration. As it was, the agitation caused by his 
sympathy with the universal emotion produced much 
immediate suffering. That day was, however, singu- 
larly bright, and the night cloudless with a full 
moon, which showed the shadowy masses of the hills 
and the forms of the Castle, the bridge and the church, 
while the torches of the students glared along the 
streets and were reflected in the Neckar, contrasting 
with the Bengal lights which coruscated in front of 
the Castle,—the whole forming a spectacle not to be 
forgotten, as beheld from Bunsen’s study at Charlot- 
tenberg. 

A few days later he issued forth, for the last time, 
from the abode of five years, turning back at the door 
of his study to gaze around mournfully at the familiar 
scene to which he would never return, and then 
hastening to the carriage. He suffered much on 
the way to the railroad station. On the journey 
to Paris, Professor Charles Waddington of Strasburg 
(well known as a philosophical writer) performed a 
much-valued act of friendship by meeting him at Kehl, 
and seeing him safely into the train at Strasburg. 
Bunsen reached Paris at five o’clock the next morning, 
and was met at the station by his son Ernest, and con- 
veyed to a comfortable abode in the Hotel du Louvre. 
This arrangement was made in execution of a long- 
formed project of visiting Paris, in order at once to 
give him an opportunity of conversing with his nu- 
merous friends there, and to spare him the comfortless 
and depressing spectacle of the breaking up of his 
home at Heidelberg,— while to his wife and daughters 


fit. 68] RETROSPECT OF HIS STAY AT PARIS. 363 


that trial was lessened by his not being there to share 
it. After completing their task, they travelled by 
Basle and Geneva to Lyons, where Bunsen joined 
them in the evening of the 3rd December. 

His time at Paris had been divided between his son 
Ernest at the Hotel du Louvre and his friend Mrs. 
Schwabe at her house. Sometimes, but rarely, he 
was able to share in the high gratification afforded 
by those well-selected dinner-parties, for which Paris 
has been ever celebrated—one of which, in the house 
of M. and Madame Edouard Laboulaye, and another 
with M. and Madame Rosseuw de St. Hilaire, he re- 
membered with peculiar pleasure. | 

Kind friends were always ready to come and see 
him on the evenings when he could not leave his room ; 
and one such evening remained particularly engraved 
on his memory, when M. Renan discussed at length 
with him the matter of a commentary of the ‘ Song 
of Solomon,’ which he soon after published, and dedi- 
cated to Bunsen. The Comtesse de St.-Aulaire, and 
the venerable Chanoine Martin de Noirlieu, were 
among those whom he more especially rejoiced to 
meet again. 

The temptation is strong to dwell longer than would 
be reasonable upon days so gilded by intellectual and 
social enjoyments, that they heightened the feeling of 
life and vigour which was ever strong in him, and 
enabled him to forget for the moment the progress of 
that insidious disease which was gradually laying hold 
of him. The well-known haunts at Cannes were hailed 
with pleasure, but not enjoyed as much as the year 
before, because the unaccustomed frost of November 


364 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


1859 had left its traces upon the vegetation even in 
that favoured spot, and the weather was chill and 
wintry. The last two days of the year were spent at 
Nice, principally for the sake of renewing his inter- 
course with the venerable Countess Bernstorff, the 
widow of Bunsen’s patron and friend at Berlin in the 
early years of his diplomatic career. In January 1860 
they who loved and watched him were still allowed to 
entertain the hope ofa possible recovery. During that 
month and the greater part of February, besides work- 
ing with his usual vigour and zest at the Bible-trans- 
lation and commentary and at the last finishing 
touches and additions to the English edition of his 
work on Egypt, he was able occasionally to take more 
exercise in the open air than had for a long time been 
possible, and to enjoy much intellectual conversation 
with several welcome visitors, among whom were M. 
Prosper Mérimée, M. Jean Reynaud, Mrs. Cobden, 
and the Marquis ané Marquise de Lillers. But among 
the most precious and enjoyable recollectioms of this 
period was the visit of his son Charles and his wife 
from Turin, with their lovely boy, then in flourishing 
health, who, however, was only ‘ lent, not given,’ to 
his parents.* 

In the night of the 25th of February the actual 
stroke of approaching death was first experienced in a 
more than usually severe attack of suffocation, accom- 
panied by pain in the region of the heart, which 
differed only in degree, not in kind, from those to 
which he had been liable ever since his stay at Stolz- 


* He died at Turin, a few months before his grandfather, on 26th June, 
1860. 


éEr. 68] SEVERE ATTACK OF SUFFOCATION. 300 


enfels on the Rhine, in August 1845, on the occasion 
of Queen Victoria’s visit to King Frederick Wil- 
liam IV. The hour of intense suffering which he had 
to endure from this last-mentioned attack proved, 
one may say, to be the beginning of the end. On 
no previous occasion had he supposed himself to be 
dying—distressing as his condition often was to the 
eyes of others, as well as agonising to himself. Now, 
however, he did not expect to survive, and uttered 
expressions of solemn leave-taking, the names of 
children and friends, with prayer for a blessing upon 
them,—declared his faith in God through Christ,— 
in broken syllables, gasping for what seemed to be his 
last breath. 

Not then, however, was he to be released. And 
though it would hardly seem possible to conceive, 
that, after such an attack as the last, he should have 
flattered himself with the vain hope of a final recovery 
to health and strength, yet it is certain, that the con- 
sciousness of possessing in its fullest vigour the power 
to give utterance to, and to condense into written 
words, the stored-up treasures of a long life’s medita- 
tion, led him to hope on for intervals of time, suffi- 
ciently free from pain, to enable him to bring his 
ereat work, the ‘ Bibelwerk,’ somewhat nearer its 
completion. The requisite preliminary studies had 
been made,—it remained but to cast the well-prepared 
metal. Moreover, he indulged his fancy with a long- 
cherished plan of delivering lectures at Bonn, from 
which he anticipated a species of relief, instead of 
considering it an effort; and his natural hopefulness 
cheered him with the prospect of his exercising even 


366 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


greater influence over the minds of his youthful 
audience than he had been able to do by his writings 
over those of his contemporaries. 

A week after the seizure just described, he had, 
as usual, risen early, and sent to his wife, while she 
was dressing, a large letter, directed in full, as if it 
came from a distance, and marked ‘ By Air-Tele- 
graph.’ 

Aw-Telegram. 
(Translation. | 
From the Rhine Quay at Bonn: Sunday morning, 4th March, 1860, 
one minute past eight. 

My BeLovepd Fanny,—I arrived here two hours ago, and 
hasten to inform you that George has succeeded in pur- 
chasing the house for us at the price settled. I shall write 
by the commoner medium of communication the parti- 
culars to my duplicate self in the Jand of prose (Philister- 
land),—the Privy Councillor, I mean, whom I left fast 
asleep this morning at five o’clock. 

I am sitting here, looking out of the window, in sight of 
the Seven Mountains, after having completed my sketch 
for a course of public lectures on the history of world- 
contemplation (Weltanschauung), from a preliminary plan 
made on the 18th of last month, and written out for you. 
I send it to you,—for the Air-Telegraph conveys even 
parcels,—as a birthday greeting from that actual and real 
young Bunsen, im his character of M.A., who nearly forty- 
three years ago courted your love in Rome. I have left 
my duplicate self, the Philister, meanwhile with you (he is 
become a man of importance—a Privy Counciller), and 
shall come again in my own proper person, very humbly, 
to fetch you as the wife of a Professor of that very Uni- 
versity whither, in 1817, I promised to take you. 

I send the prospectus beforehand; in the afternoon, at 
four o’clock, I shall retrace my way through the air, and 
be ready to give my first lecture before you. 


JET. 68] HIS WIFE’S BIRTHDAY. O07 


The violet-mothers announce to you, with their sweetest 
greeting, that their daughters are still fast asleep, and it is 
to be apprehended that they will wake quite pale. But E. 
promises to deliver to them such an instructive course of 
lectures, that they will soon turn quite blue! 

All blessing to you, who are my blessing ! 

Your, CHRISTIAN CaRL. 


This 4th of March was his wife’s birthday, which 
he had never failed to greet with a more than ordi- 
nary effusion of feeling; and he sought, with an 
affecting mixture of joke and earnest, to contrive for 
her a birthday pleasure, on the first of those anniver- 
saries, during a long course of forty-three years, 
which had found her with a weight of sorrow and 
apprehension on her mind,—feelings which, though 
unexpressed, could not but be perceived by him. 
The acquisition of a house at Bonn, of an abode of 
his own, and the prospect of executing a desire, long 
entertained, of giving there a course of lectures to 
which he knew his wife had looked forward as a 
species of mental activity which would be in itself 
inspiriting and a relief from the constant work of 
composition ;—these were both points to dwell upon 
with satisfaction, and the attempt at pleasantry in 
pointing them out proved his own consciousness of 
the need to escape, if possible, from the depression of 
the present moment. That day, an unexpected visit 
from Count Pietro Guicciardini and the Baron and 
Baroness Boris d’Uxkiill from Nice was a peculiarly 
welcome stimulus to the depressed spirits of all; and 
a kind invitation to return their visit, by coming over 
to the Villa Potocka, on the Cimier-hill above Nice, 


368 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


was made and accepted, in the hope of some refresh- 
ment from the change. On the 3lst March Bunsen 
undertook the drive, accompanied by his eldest 
daughter, his wife remaining behind with the youngest 
and with the beloved grandson, who was so soon to 
lead the way through the gate of death, to be followed 
by his grandfather. It was the last time that Bunsen 
and his wife were separated, even for hours,—before 
the last earthly parting. The object of obtaining 
refreshment from change of air, of scenes, and of 
society, was not, alas! attained—he returned with 
the same mournful expression of suffering with which 
he had gone forth,—that expression which the last 
portrait taken of him by Roeting, of Diisseldorf, has 
almost too faithfully preserved. 

A visit of the youngest son, Theodore, to take leave 
of his parents on the way to Trieste, where he was to 
join the diplomatic mission of Prussia to Japan and 
China, headed by Cqunt Eulenburg,—and the return 
of his son Charles and daughter-in-law Mary from a 
tour to Rome and Naples, were events producing in 
some degree the solace and the variety but too much 
needed, to help in passing the time, until the north- 
ward journey to Bonn could be undertaken without 
the msk of too sudden a change of temperature. 
During December and January Bunsen was often 
making plans for seeing part of his beloved Italy 
again on his way home under the present more 
hopeful auspices ; and then again he would give up 
the greater undertaking, and promise himself the 
easier journey round by Paris, where he might renew 
the friendly intercourse upon which his mind dwelt 


ZEr.68] ACCIDENT TO YOUNGEST DAUGHTER. 369 


with so much satisfaction, and be enabled to enjoy 
the Louvre again, and to show his wife the paintings 
of Ary Scheffer. But since his attack in February 
these visions had vanished, and an inward con- 
sciousness of incapacity to exert or enjoy himself, 
as in times past, must have taken the place of the 
sanguine projects in which he had formerly delighted. 
And now, on 30th April, Bunsen and his family were 
to be reminded, that there may be much to add to 
the cup of affliction, even when, to human view, it 
may already seem full. The sudden fall of a heavy 
staircase upon his youngest daughter, Matilda, in a 
moment lamed for life the well-formed, vigorous girl, 
and rendered her for a long time helpless and suffer- 
ing. Her restoration to independent power of moving, 
and the experience that ‘ sweet are the uses of adver- 
sity,’ were mercies reserved for a later time, which her 
father did not live to witness.* The immediate con- 
sequence of this blow was the added trial of a family- 
separation,—for Matilda could not be moved, and the 
father had need to reach his northern home, before a 
hotter season should add to the risk and pain of the 
journey. The parents, therefore, escorted by their 


* Matilda was suddenly removed from the sorrows and joys and the 
restless yearnings of this life into everlasting rest, in the month of 
February, 1867, at Neuen Dettelsau, near Anspach in Bavaria, where 
she had sought and undertaken, but a few weeks before, the most ardu- 
ous duties which the calling of a deaconess can offer, and had performed 
them humbly, courageously, and efficiently. A bronchial affection had 
rapidly grown into an inflammation of the lungs, and death ensued a 
death of consciousness and peace, on the third day after she had, un- 
willingly, taken to her bed—almost as soon as danger had been per- 
eeived by the devoted friends who attended her. She expressed herself 
thankful for having been permitted to die in such a sphere of activity, 


VOL. ITI. BB 


370 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


youngest son, took their departure on the 14th May 
from Maison Pinchinat, the dwelling inhabited dur- 
ing two successive winters, which they had quitted 
just a year before with cheerful anticipations of re- 
turning, and now finally quitted with the anguish 
of leaving their youngest daughter to lengthened 
suffering, and the eldest under a weight of anxious 
care. That each would bravely bear up under the 
dispensation, and that a blessing would attend it, 
they doubted not; but it was truly a complexity of 
afflictions and anxieties in which the travellers set 
forth, still escorted by a son, from whom they were 
to part four days later, ‘it must be for years, and it 
might be for ever.’ At Olten in Switzerland, the 
place of railway junction, Theodore, after seeing 
his parents, with a quick farewell, into the train 
starting for Basle, betook himself to that which con- 
veyed him by Venice.to Trieste, to join at the ap- 
pointed moment the expedition to which his father 
was thankful he should belong. 

This pilgrimage of sorrow had been favoured by a 
variety of outward circumstances, for the weather and 
temperature were perfect, and the face of the earth 
expressed only joy and blessing, presenting fulness 
of beauty at the moment, and the gladdening promise 
of plenty for the future. The rocky barrier of the 
Hstérel, between Cannes and Fréjus, clothed in ver- 
dure with blooming cistus and golden broom, the 
varied vegetation and the granite mountains of Pro- 
vence, could not but soothe and cheer, contemplated 
at leisure, as the party travelled with post-horses 
to Toulon. Thence to Basle the railroad was not 


Zr. 68] HIS STAY AT BADEN-WEILER. 371 


quitted, except during the necessary pause at Lyons, 
and for a night at Geneva and at Neufchatel. On 
arriving at Basle, the 19th May, a few hours after . 
parting from one son, a telegram was found an- 
nouncing that another was expecting his parents at 
Baden Baden, where they had hoped to wait upon 
the Princess of Prussia on their way to Bonn. But 
Bunsen did not feel equal to that exertion and plea- 
sure : and Ernest was sent for by telegram to join his 
parents at Basle, where his father desired to rest and 
to seek relief at the hands of Dr. Jung. The conversa- 
tion and personal character of that eminent physician, 
however, had a more reviving effect than his medical 
treatment. The concluding advice received was that 
Bunsen should try the effect of days, or weeks, at 
Baden-Weiler, to which beautiful spot he proceeded, 
the fourth day after reaching Basle. He had been 
there once before, and was willing to anticipate a 
renewal of the refreshment then experienced. The 
sunshine, the spring-temperature, the rich vegetation, 
the abundance of blossom,—all these circumstances 
combined to grace Bunsen’s return to his native 
country. He hailed with delight the many pleasing 
characteristics of a German and Protestant village, 
more especially the part-singing of a numerous assem- 
bly of youths, under a tree after night-fall, guided by 
the schoolmaster of the place, who was discovered on 
inquiry to be one of those persons of education far 
above his condition in life, often found in Germany, 
who are not vulgarised by the struggle with each day’s 
necessities. Bunsen enjoyed the performance, and 
yet more did he delight in its origin. One song more 
BB2 


372 ‘MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


especially gave him particular pleasure. It was one 
which contained the often-repeated lines: ‘ Wo ist 
mein Haus? Im Himmel ist mein Haus !? (‘Where is 
my home? In heaven is my home!’) His kind 
notice and encouragement may probably be still re- 
membered there. He rode in the oak-woods, drove in 
the charming valley, and enjoyed his son’s soothing 
attention,—but after three days he became impatient 
to reach his home, feeling, only too well, that what he 
wanted was not attainable by means of air and scenery, 
and fixing his hope upon the well-known skill and 
judgment of Dr. Wolff of Bonn. It was peculiar to 
Bunsen to look up to a learned physician with that 
reverential confidence, somewhat akin to the deference 
usually paid to spiritual advisers—a feeling probably 
not unlike that with which in his childhood he used 
to look up to his teachers. He always respected 
authority. ms 

On the 24th May the party reached Mannheim, 
where Bunsen was met by his daughter Theodora 
with her husband Baron von Ungern-Sternberg. On 
the 25th the Rhine steamer conveyed him to Bonn, 
taking on board by the way, at Neu Wied, his daugh- 
ter-in-law, Elizabeth, and her children; and in his 
own house he was received by his daughter Emilia, 
his son George and daughter-in-law Emma, who had 
been indefatigable in their preparations for his com- 
fort. Thus was the last weary journey completed, 
and the last earthly resting-place attained. Gleams 
of hope and happiness returned, as Bunsen busied 
himself with arranging his books, placing his stand- 
ing desks, and at intervals resuming the works of 


7ir.68] MEDICAL OPINION OF HIS HEALTH. 373 


his life. On the house arrangements he made neither 
comment nor suggestion,—quite unlike his wont on 
all other occasions of a fresh settlement; but ex- 
pressed satisfaction at seeing that his own portrait 
had been placed in a recess, so as to look across 
at the ‘ Christ’ of Leonardo da Vinci: ‘ This is what 
I like!—I wish to be thought of as looking to 
Christ.’ 

The daily attendance of Dr. Wolff began the 
second evening after his arrival. By means of his 
prescriptions an interval of ease from attacks of 
oppression was obtained, which lasted almost a fort- 
night: but after the 11th June all trace of amend- 
ment vanished, and the downward way was never 
again interrupted. 

The opinion given by Dr. Wolff, after a few days’ 
study of the case, expressed with his accustomed 
clearness and sincerity to Bunsen’s family, was, that 
a disturbance of the functions of the heart existed, 
for which the medical art possessed no remedy ; that 
alleviation might be possible, but the disorder would 
have its course. When asked as to his calculation 
of the probable duration of life under such circum- 
stances, he replied, ‘ You, and I, and every one of us, 
have the germ of our death within us: but the 
struggle with life in Bunsen’s case may be short or 
long: it is impossible to say. God grant it may be 
short, and then death will be easy !’ 

The struggle, however, was to continue six months 
longer, and each several month was marked by in- 
creased suffering through the deepening shadow of 
death. The beautiful weather which favoured his 


374 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


homeward journey ceased on the 25th May, and the 
naturally bright festival of Whitsuntide was ushered 
in by a chilling storm, which proved the entrance on 
a series of ungenial months, frowning in succession, 
and suiting but too well with the mournful temper of 
the moral atmosphere. However, Bunsen continued 
daily his beloved occupation, which ought not to be 
called his work, if under the term be understood 
effort, for with him writing down the results of the 
meditations and researches of years was not labour, 
but a pouring out from his fulness. When taking 
his daily drive, he was anxious not to omit leaving a 
card to signify a visit, at the door of each of the 
dignitaries of the University in succession, with a 
message to explain his inability to ascend stairs ; and 
opportunities of intercourse, when he was able to 
receive the visits made in return, were always inter- 
esting to him, as they will have been to those who re- 
collect the animated flow of intellectual conversation, 
which betrayed nothing of the presence of a gnaw- 
ing disease. His chief solace at this time was the 
presence of sons and daughters ; each of whom in suc- 
cession was near him, occupied in constant and varied 
offices of love, in their endeavours to soothe the 
weary hours of continued want of rest. <A true and 
unselfish heart had his been at all times towards his 
children, and true and unselfish were their hearts 
towards him. 

In the course of July his portrait was painted by 
Professor Roeting, of Diisseldorf, at the earnest wish 
of his son Ernest, which he could not resist, although 
the effort of continuing long in the same position 


ZEr. 68] HIS SORROWS AND HIS JOYS. 375 


increased his sufferings. An attempt was made to 
entertain him by reading aloud some of his favourite 
passages from the poetry of Géthe; but an emotion, 
only too strong and too marked, was the consequence, 
the expression of which unfortunately remains in the 
picture. Yet the portrait is an invaluable one, be- 
cause a faithful shadow ‘of the time, its form and 
pressure ;’ and those only who most frequently saw 
and most strongly felt the peculiar majesty and 
solemnity of his appearance during that last period 
passed in the constant close contemplation of death, 
can duly estimate the merit of the painting. ._The 
representation is inaccurate only in colour, which is 
too much flushed. The contrast is great between this 
last likeness and the portrait by Richmond, beaming 
with joyous consciousness of intellectual life and 
bodily health, executed fourteen years earlier. 
Bunsen was deeply conscious of the sorrows which 
at this period crowded into this seemingly afflicted 
portion of a life which had in its previous course 
been so generally prosperous. The calamitous con- 
dition of his youngest daughter, and the trial of 
care and watching thereby entailed upon his eldest 
daughter called forth a constant exertion of his 
sympathy. But, above all, he was affected by the 
dangerous illness of his son Charles, who at Turin 
was attacked by the measles, together with his then 
only child, the lovely boy who in high health had 
parted from his grandparents at Cannes only six 
weeks before his death. On the other hand, a 
gleam of satisfaction and devout thankfulness broke 
through the habitual gloom, when, in the course of 


376 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


the summer, each of his two married daughters ob- 
tained the wish of her heart in the birth of a son. 
Harly in August, he was comforted by the return of 
his eldest and youngest daughters from their compul- 
sory banishment at Cannes, and he took an animated 
interest in securing the opinion of the famous Lan- 
genbeck, of Berlin, on his passage through Bonn, 
as to the possibility of some amends being made for 
the failure of the treatment by the French surgeon. 
When, a few weeks later, on the return of Professor 
Busch, the opinion of Langenbeck was acted upon, 
too late for the desired result, so great was the change 
which the progress of disease had wrought upon 
Bunsen, that the day and hour when the operation 
was to take place had to be kept secret from him, for 
fear of causing too greatan emotion. And yet he had 
taken all his life the most lively interest in surgical 
operations, having evidently a taste for that science. 
Life was now ebbing away fast, even though his 
eagerness to hurry on his ‘ Bibelwerk’ never flagged, 
any more than the interest he took in passing events. 
The arrival of the ‘Cologne Gazette,’ for instance, 
every evening, was looked forward to with impatience, 
and even after he had given up reading it himself, 
parts of it, and other papers, were read aloud to him 
for some time longer. 


Bunsen to his Son Henry (shortly before he joined him 
at Bonn). 


[ Translation. | Bonn: 22nd June, 1860. 
It must seem as though I had forgotten you; but your 
mother and sisters are my witnesses that it is not so. 
Never have I thought of you more often, and with more 


Aut. 68 | HIS LAST FOUR LETTERS. 307 


joy, than in these latter months of suffermg. I reckon so 
fully upon your coming here with wife and children, that 
I put off all favourite subjects to the time of personal 
intercourse; besides which, I cannot conceal from you that 
till very lately writing has cost me a severe effort. God 
be thanked! to-day, yesterday, and the day before, I have 
again been able to compose. I took in hand my ‘Epilogue’ 
to the English edition of ‘Kgypt,’ &. &. I am now 
recovering from the effects of the treatment, which has 
shaken me more than the disorder: it was a real poisoning, 
against which my digestion rebelled. The nights are more 
tolerable, in proportion to the revival of my strength. In 
two or three weeks, ‘Egypt,’ ‘Jeremiah,’ and ‘ Ezekiel,’ 
will be out of my hands, and, please God, you will find me 
when you arrive, there, where 1 hope to spend the rest of 
my days, dwelling upon and with Christ the Saviour, not 
only spiritually, but also as a writer. J am inexpressibly 
affected by the great kindness of the Duchess of Argyll, 
that she should remember me in the midst of her own 
anxieties. I thank God that those are lessened. But the 
Duke must allow himself rest. The first letter I can write 
shall be to her. 

Your love to me, in the midst of your beneficent activity, 
rejoices my heart. Farewell! soon to meet. 


Bunsen to a Friend. 
[ Translation. | 
Bonn : 25th June, 1860, seven o'clock in the morning. 


You already know, dear friend, that I have not written 
to you, because I could not write at all. The two past 
months have been very bad, and I have caused my family 
much trouble and anxiety. Now, however, I am somewhat 
better; I can again sleep a few hours, without being com- 
pelled to rise from a feeling of oppression. God has 
ordered all things graciously, and I cannot be thankful 
enough for all the consolation, help, and refreshment that 
I have found, and daily experience. You know that your 


378 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


kindness and sympathy I reckon as among not the least of 
these. ... 

My motto, as I yesterday said to my children, shall be, 
‘Withdrawal inwards.’ All threads with the outward world 
are already or will be by degrees cut off: but the threads 
which connect heart with heart belong not to the outer 
world. From the lst July I shall read no more political 
papers. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. | Bonn: 8th August, 1860. 


I cannot let our good Henry’s letter go without giving 
you the sign of life and affection which on account of 
illness I was prevented doing yesterday. The day after 
to-morrow, George will bring back to the paternal dwelling, 
from Paris, the two hardly-tried and nobly-proved sisters. 

Fear not that I work too hard; alas! alas! as long as 
the complication of my disorder with a troublesome cough 
lasts, 1 can work only two or three hours in the day. But 
I have written to you all this, that you may see that God’s 
good Spirit has not forsaken me. MHenry’s presence here 
is an hourly blessing. ™ 


Bunsen to the Duchess of Argyll. 
Bonn: &th August, 1860. 


My pearest Ducness,—Words of kindest affection, like 
those of your last letter, must draw down a blessing. 
Thanks! from my dying soul. Yes, my kindest friend, I 
have been supported, and am continually supported, by 
that Eternal Love, in which we live and move and have 
being, and which manifested itself in Christ Jesus. The 
days have been heavy, and the nights dark, but His light 
has surrounded and strengthened my soul, and will, I hope 
and believe, carry me through the gates of death to behold 
His eternal glory. 

My suffering is greater than the immediate danger of 


ZET. 69 | HIS LAST BIRTHDAY. o¢9 


my illness, particularly by transitory complications and 
aggravations, Still my spirit is not dimmed. I have 
carried an English and a German volume through the 
press. The printing of the Gospels begins on the Ist 


September, and this is the centre of my thoughts more 
than ever. 


I am surrounded by the tenderest love and care of wife 
and children, and enjoy this beautiful place daily, in spite 
of the incredibly unseasonable weather. 

I daily thank God that I have lived to see Italy free, and 
Garibaldi her hero! Now, twenty-six millions will be able 
to believe that God governs the world, and to believe in 
Him ! 

God bless you! Ever your affectionate friend, 

BUNSEN. 


The 25th August, his birthday, had been a glad- 
some festival for a long series of years; but it was this 
time to be celebrated, under the consciousness of all 
present, that it must be the last in which it would be 
permitted to them to behold him; that a prolonga- 
tion of his life was scarcely possible, and under such 
circumstances not to be desired by those who most 
loved him. 

A visit to the garden-pavilion made a refreshing and 
cheering impression upon him. The four portraits, 
accomplished by the masterly hands of Professors 
Sohn and Roeting, of Diisseldorf, had arrived, and 
were hung up, surrounded by all that fulness of 
tasteful decoration with green branches and wreaths 
of fresh flowers which is so peculiarly understood in 
Germany ; his own portrait was hung by itself at the 
one extremity of the room, at the other were the 
portrait of his wife and those of Ernest and his wife, 


380 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


one on each side. That they should be all four 
finished to adorn his birthday he had not anticipated ; 
and this pleasing surprise, together with the prepa~ 
ration for the family dinner party, which Ernest and 
his wife were making in that same cheerful garden- 
pavilion, contributed to cause a soothing emotion. 
One of his daughters remembers his melting into 
tears after looking for a time at the portrait of her 
mother—when it so happened that no one but her- 
self stood near him. Throughout the morning his 
whole being gave the impression of a continued 
struggle to command the multitude of thoughts and 
feelings which crowded upon him: but a short slum- 
ber somewhat restored him before he was fetched to 
dinner at one o’clock. 

It was determined to avoid as much as possible 
causing agitation of mind to the beloved object of the 
day’s celebration. Henry, his eldest son, by his well- 
chosen and impressive words, gave utterance only too 
fully to the mournful consciousness of the entire com- 
pany, referring, as he did, to the Scriptural words of 
the family motto, ‘ Jn silentio et spe’ (from Isaiah xxx. 
15), which appeared to be particularly appropriate on 
that solemn occasion, and closing with the benediction 
of the Old Testament, ‘The Eternal bless thee and 
keep thee—the Eternal make His face to shine upon 
thee—the Eternal lift up the light of his countenance 
upon thee, and give thee peace, now and evermore.’ 
While these hallowed words of blessing were uttered, 
he to whom they were addressed had taken off the 
black velvet cap from his head, and sat bowing for- 
wards with folded hands. 


LET. 69] HIS LAST BIRTHDAY. 3881 


When after a time he rose to speak, the ever fresh 
spirit could only by slow degrees cast off the body’s 
shackles, the depressing effect of suffering and emo- 
tion, in order to expand into native youthfulness. 

‘My beloved children and friends,’ he began, ‘1 
know one thing clearly and certainly,—that if in the 
counsel of God it is good for me, this will not be my 
last birthday celebration: and also, that if God calls 
me, I shall joyfully obey the summons and depart this 
life.’ Inallusion to the ornaments on the cake which 
was placed before him, containing the names of 
parents, children, and allied families, and in front of 
all the inscription, ‘ Bunsen — Waddington, Rome, 
1817,’ he spoke of the sojourn in the Eternal City by 
the side of his wife, in connection with those inesti- 
mable friends Niebuhr, Brandis, and others, one of 
whom (Gerhard) was present, surrounded by a me- 
morial of a mighty past, and borne up by hopes of a 
better and purer future. In an agitated epoch had 
he left Rome twenty-three years ago, with a heavy 
heart, and yet with the feeling which he had ex- 
pressed to his wife, on issuing forth from the door on 
that memorable morning of departure, ‘ With God’s 
help we will build another Capitol!’ And thus it 
was! After a bright period of greeting English 
friends (1838-9), and a short residence at the foot of 
the Alps, which had furthered and advanced many of 
his pursuits and researches, a new Capitol was con- 
structed in free England for him (1841), and enjoyed 
for twelve years and a half. How graciously had 
God conducted him during this whole time! 

During this speech, the emotion of all present had 


382 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


been with difficulty repressed, such was the peculiar 
emphasis, as well as the deep meaning expressed ; but 
when the speaker closed with a warm utterance of 
thankfulness and blessing towards all, collectively 
and individually, the feeling was that the hearts of 
all hearers, as well as his own, must burst. But soon 
his countenance and speech brightened into renewed 
joyousness. 

After a lengthened pause, during which a con- 
tinued flow of conversation was kept up, Bunsen, 
raising his voice, addressed another of his sons as 
follows :—‘ Dear Ernest, in such times, it were im- 
possible to disregard politics. We are all devoted in 
heart to our country, and bound in love and loyalty 
to the King and our dear Regent, and need no 
peculiar call to arouse that consciousness; but in 
another direction 1 am urged to demand of you to 
join me in wishing joy and prosperity to Italy and 
to Garibaldi!’ And he fose from his seat, and con- 
tinued, ‘ We all, dear Gerhard, who have known and 
loved Italy, have from of old anticipated and fore- 
seen the return to life of that blessed country, no 
matter whether in our own time, or in fifty or in a 
hundred years; and now we are actually beholding it 
in progress, with our astonished eyes, under the 
mighty shield of God! Italy, the cradle of our 
modern civilisation, of our intellectual advancement, 
is free. ‘The day has dawned, in which the most in- 
telligent, the most creative nation of Europe, for 
centuries degraded and oppressed, the sport of foreign 
Powers, and torn asunder by the violence of contend- 
ing parties, celebrates its own resurrection, strong in 


Fer, 69] ITALY AND GARIBALDI. 383 


self-sacrifice, in valour, and (what is highest of all) in 
moderation. The Hero has arisen to set his country 
free from thraldom, at once a hero without stain, and 
a highly gifted military commander. Garibaldi founds 
his hopes not alone on the sword, or even on negoti- 
ation, but upon the moral and spiritual resurrection 
of the entire nation. This remarkable man wrote 
not long since, ‘‘ The best of allies that you can pro- 
cure for us is the Bible, which will bring us the 
reality of freedom.” Rather than he should be 
tempted to undertake the least thing inconsistent 
with the glorious task of saving his country, may his 
great life find an honoured end !’ 

The spirits of all present rose in proportion to 
the evident improvement (however momentary) in 
Bunsen’s own state. One by one the absent were 
mentioned, who were sure to be present in spirit and 
in sympathy; and the joyous grandfather himself 
proposed with fervour the health of the infant, John 
Charles Harford, who in England was to receive 
baptism on this festival-day. The universal con- 
sciousness of family love and devout aspiration cast a 
warm glow even over the parting with Ernest and 
Elizabeth and their children, who, at four o’clock, 
started on their way to England. 

Though nothing in Bunsen’s state of health autho- 
rised the hope of his eventual recovery, there were 
yet several hours every morning during which he 
showed a wonderful capacity for work, and occupied 
himself with the critical examination and correc- 
tion of his ‘ Bibelwerk.’? Besides conferences with his 
assistant, Dr. Kamphausen, on the Old Testament, 


384 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


he was able to go through the three first Gospels, 
with the help of his son Henry, in whose rich 
fund of biblical knowledge and scholarship he felt 
cordial delight. Several occasions are remembered, 
of bright and cheerful conversation with friends 
from a distance, the pleasure of whose greeting sus- 
pended for the moment the sense of habitual suf- 
fering: as, for instance, when Abeken made a short 
but inspiriting visit, and joined with him m a dinner 
party at Rheindorf (his son George’s residence), 
on the 4th September, The departure of Henry and 
his family on the 14th of that month (returning home 
to his parochial duties) made room for his daughter, 
Mary Harford, who hastened over (with her husband 
and three of her children) as soon as she was able to 
travel, that she might once more look into the eyes 
of her father and feel the present warmth of his 
affection. But the days were come, in which all felt 
‘there was no pleasure in them.’ Meyer, the friend 
of long years, stayed for a time, departed and re- 
turned, watching for any occasion of usefulness: for 
many a day, he was the reader of the Cologne paper, 
until even that was too much for the sufferer. 

In the beginning of October, a decided change for 
the worse took place. On the 11th, a visit from 
the Princess of Wied was soothing to his feelings, 
but everything that used to be unmixed pleasure 
was now a painful effort. Still more was this the 
case, when the Princess (now the Queen) of Prussia 
granted him (on the 15th) her gracious and sympa- 
thising presence. How had he, on every previous 
occasion of approaching her, enjoyed the intercourse 


JET, 69] VISIT OF THE QUEEN OF PRUSSIA, 380 


to which he was admitted! Standing upright at the 
top of the stairs, dressed with his peculiar neatness 
(and looking cheerful, as if unwilling to inflict pain 
even by his looks), he awaited his royal visitor, whom 
his wife and Lady Llanover were conducting up- 
stairs. He asked leave to accompany her Royal 
Highness into his library, where a short but vivid 
conversation ensued on matters near to the heart 
and mind of both speakers. At her own desire 
the Princess was led by Bunsen to a neighbouring 
room, where Matilda lay on her bed, awaiting 
the result of Dr. Langenbeck’s operation; and he 
was able, without any visible effort, to remain during 
the visit which her Royal Highness then paid to the 
rest of the family assembled in the drawing-room. 
Two days later, a sudden interval of comparative 
ease made it possible for Bunsen to receive a visit 
from Mr. R. B. Morier, which gave an opportunity 
of expatiating on political subjects, in which the 
power and rich stores of his mind astonished the 
hearers. This was almost the last of the long and 
animated conversations, in which he used to delight 
to communicate to others his own rich and glowing 
thoughts, and to call forth the thoughts of others. 
After the arrival of his son Charles, on the 21st, he was 
once more enabled to converse on Italian and other 
public affairs, during the greater part of the afternoon. 
In the course of that week, he was twice taken to his 
favourite garden-pavilion, being carried downstairs 
on a seat borne on poles, then wheeled in a chair— 
the object being to see the cast of the colossal head 
VOL, II. cc | 


386 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


of Jupiter Olympius from the Vatican, which by his 
desire had been placed in the pavilion. It had been 
ordered from Berlin six weeks before, and he had been 
impatient of the delay in its arrival: but now that it 
was put up in its proper place, he could scarcely look 
at the much-prized object. The second occasion of 
being taken thither, on the 24th, he said ‘it would 
be the last time.’ Two days later he was taken out 
for an airing in an easy carriage. It was then that 
he expressed to his son George his last wishes on 
various matters—touchingly refraining from orders— 
but desiring that, 1f posscble, his collections (books and 
engravings) should not be dispersed, and remarked 
that though the outward air was refreshing, the 
effort of being brought into and out of the carriage 
was too great for him. Accordingly the 26th was 
the date of the last drive. On the 28th, the actual 
grip of death was upon him for the second time (the 
first was 25th February)—from morning till night 
the gasping and the*struggle ceased not. The ex- 
perienced eye of Wolff considered the last hour to be 
at hand—he uttered in a whisper, ‘ This is a fearfully 
prolonged death-strugele !’ 

On Monday, 22nd October, he made an effort to re- 
ceive the farewell visit of the venerable Pastor Wies- 
mann, on his removal as Superintendent-General to 
Coblentz. The pastor remained some time closeted 
with him, and when he left him he expressed hiniself 
very feelingly on the subject of the solemn impressions 
which he had received in that interview. Among 
other things he said that when he remarked to Bunsen 
that after all it was the personal communion with 


JET. 69] LAST MONTH OF HIS LIFE. 387 


Christ, in life as well as in death, which alone could 
bring us peace at last, Bunsen rejoined ‘that many 
had endeavoured to build all kinds of bridges in order 
to reach this goal, but that he had come to the full 
conviction that all those bridges must be broken down, 
nor should they be trusted to for effectual mediation, 
as there was nothing to hold fast by, except the 
simple faith in Christ.” Wiesmann then quoted some 
short passages of Scripture, the last being, ‘I can do 
all things through Christ which strengtheneth me’ 
(Phil. iv. 13). This passage Bunsen seized on with 
peculiar animation, and declared emphatically ‘ how 
he had felt the truth contained in these words daily 
more and more, and hoped to experience it yet more 
fully to the end.’ 


The Last Month. 


To record here some of the words uttered under 
the present sense of imminent death is due to the 
memory of him, whose reality of opinion and inmost 
conviction has been much misunderstood and mis- 
construed: but it would seem needless to give an 
account of each and every utterance, precious and 
consolatory though it might be to surviving love. 
A selection has been made, such as will give a true 
indication of the mind which had passed into life 
eternal even before its release from the poor suffer- 
ing body: for even before the critical 28th October 
speaking had become at times difficult, articulation 
being impeded by the inflamed condition of the throat, 
and by the gradual progress of the malady. 

But the whole of that 28th October will remain, as 


cc2 


388 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. - [1860 


long as consciousness lasts, impressed upon the minds 
of the surviving witnesses. The sufferings were in- 
tense, but the spirit remained throughout bright and 
clear; and its utterances, under the increasing con- 
viction of the near approach of dissolution, bore but 
one character— that of looking upwards to God, 
through Christ, and of turning to the past as well as 
to all around him with love and thankfulness. Many 
notes were made of the broken sentences uttered on 
the following day, felt to be very incomplete; yet 
they who heard them have resolutely refrained from 
allowing themselves to modify, interpret, or connect 
the ejaculations, a few of which follow:—‘ God be 
praised for all! ineternity—Amen.’ ‘His love is end- 
less, spread over all creatures—nearest to His own in 
Christ.’ ‘ Eternal love—that is the first, the origin. 
Love that wills—will that loves.”* His wife repeated 
a verse of a German Hymn, ‘In den Auen jener 
Freuden,’ to which he responded, ‘Amen! O could 
I but speak; coulé I but give utterance to my 
thoughts.’ Huis wife said, ‘God understands you.’ 
He continued, ‘I thank Him that He has taught me 
to understand Him. But God will yet grant to me— 
God will give’ (probably meaning the power of 
utterance). 

This (often repeated in various broken words) took 
place near the close of that terrible day. At one 
o’clock in the morning of the 29th, he said, with a 
clear and strong voice, ‘ During the last quarter of an 
hour a great change has come over my thoughts— 
not with reference to my immortal soul, not as to 





* ‘ Wollendes Lieben—liebendes Wollen !° 


Rr. 69] LAST MONTH OF HIS LIFE. 389 


Christ, the one only Saviour of my soul—but with re- 
gard to my body.’ For the first time since that sei- 
zure on the 25th February, he must have supposed the 
moment of departure to be at hand, for after a severe 
struggle, about two a.m., he suddenly and distinctly 
said, ‘My God! into Thy hands I commend my spirit! 
I bless you all, my children. Come, all of you, that 
I may declare before you all, that everything of which 
I can dispose I leave to your mother’s disposal: she 
knows all my intentions and wishes. To the Eternal 
God, the Almighty, the All-merciful, I commend my 
immortal soul. May He bless you all, and all friends ! 
Blessings upon the fatherland ! our dear fatherland !’ 
Having been helped to lie down, he turned his eyes, 
with an indescribable expression of affection and a 
long-dwelling smile, towards his wife—‘ Most precious 
Fanny, my first, my only love! In you I have loved 
that which is eternal. No one knows what you have 
been to me. Thanks, a thousand times, for your love!’ 
Thereupon he addressed, with a beaming look, each 
of his children present, and named the absent ones, 
more especially Theodore, the youngest son. Between 
each name he paused, as if in silent prayer for each 
individual, He mentioned the wives of each of his 
sons, and the husbands of his daughters. 

‘Prussia, Germany, England, Italy, and her free- 
dom, hail!’ ‘The Gospel over the whole world! may 
it rule the world!’ ‘ All blessings on the Prince and 
Princess of Prussia!’ ‘God bless the Prince and 
Princess of Wied!’ ‘Thanks be to Niebuhr—Stein !’ 

After a long pause he addressed his servant, 
‘Thanks, dear Jacob, for all your love and faithful- 


390 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


ness, which you have so constantly shown me! Re- 
main and hold fast by all mine, and they will stand 
by you.’ | 

‘Jt 1s sweet to die!’—he uttered these words with 
an unspeakably fine expression of countenance. ‘It 
is sweet to die!’ ‘ With all feebleness and imperfec- 
tion I have ever lived, striven after, and willed the 
best and noblest only. But the best and highest is to 
have known Jesus Christ. I depart from this world 
without any feeling of uncharitableness towards any 
one. No uncharitableness, no! that is sin’ (speaking 
with a kind of inward shuddering). 

On the morning of the 28th, George had tele- 
oeraphed to Ernest in London, that he believed he 
might yet see his father in life, if he could come im- 
mediately. ‘his seemed to all others to be answering 
for too much; but the summons procured to Ernest 
for nearly a month the mournful satisfaction of seeing 
and ministering to his father, and receiving his bene- 
diction in person. ‘In the course of the 29th, the al- 
teration of bright moments with longer times of un- 
utterable distress, gasping and struggling for breath, 
went on regularly. The sufferer.was pleased to be 
told that Ernest was expected; and he continued to 
utter ejaculations of farewell and benediction, as be- 
fore, interspersed with earnest declarations of his faith 
an and through Christ. 

On the morning of the 29th, about ten o’clock, after 
contending for a long time against confusion, he called 
each of the sorrowing party close to him, and gave to 
each words of tenderness. Extending both arms to- 
wards his wife, he said, ‘ We shall meet again before 


JET, 69] . LAST MONTH OF HIS LIFE. 391 


the throne of God. If I have walked towards it, it 
was by your help.’ Then he said to all, ‘ Watch well 
to keep up activity of life! Let life be evermore 
living! Forget not the light!’ ‘Good night—now 
shut the blinds—and close my eyes to eternal rest.’ 
He closed his eyes; the slumber of an infant came 
over him, but the final rest was not yet; and he 
awoke soon after, asking after Ernest. Seeing Bran- 
dis, he exclaimed, ‘ Dearest Brandis!’ adding to the 
bystanding family something indistinct, signifying 
that they should hold fast by Brandis. An affectionate 
greeting to Meyer, with the words, ‘You stand be- 
tween my German and my English world.’ One of his 
children pointed out to him the bright evening sky, 
and he exclaimed, ‘Glorious! love in all!’ (many 
times reiterated) ‘ God’s life—the life of God—lives 
in all!’ 

He recognised his son Ernest instantaneously on his 
arrival, Late that night he began, clear in thought, 
but not in utterance, in English :—‘ May I not say a 
word? My strength is going, but among my chil- 
dren and friends I wish to say a few words. Is it too 
hard a thing even to say a parting word to the 
world? It is some time since I have given up fulfilling 
any public duties. It is my wish, therefore, to dis- 
appear entirely. I die in perfect peace with all men. 
I have entirely the feeling of a man who has desired - 
to live at peace with all men, at the same time to 
speak the truth, and to say what he thought. So 
likewise, I wish all men, if they think of me, to think 
of me with benevolence, as of one who wished and 
strove to do good to all. I offer my blessing—the 


392 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


blessing of an old man—to all who wish to have it.’ 
‘T thank all for their kindness to me.’ ‘I see 
Christ, and I see, through Christ, God.’ ‘ Christ is 
seeing us,—is creating us. Christ must become all in 
all.’ 

On the 81st October he stretched out his hand, 
with a smile, on seeing Lady Llanover, and said, 
‘God be with you!—I have always felt for you, and 
with you, more than you ever knew.’ 

‘Where is mamma?—hasten to call her—I am 
dying, my time is come, and I must have a few words 
with heralone. I am quite clear, we are all sinners! 
There is only one—Christ in God.’ Turning round 
to those present, he said, ‘ Have you any doubts? I 
have none.’ Then addressing his wife, ‘We only 
exist in so far as we are in God; we are all sinners, 
but in God we exist and shall be in life eternal. We 
have lived in it, partly, already in so far as we have 
lived in God. All the restis nothing. We only are, 
in so far as we exist in love to God. You know 
that I love you, but my love to you is far greater 
than I could ever tell you. We have loved each 
other in God, and in God we shall see one another 
again.” Looking fixedly at her, ‘ We shall meet again, 
of that Tam sure—in the presence of God. I have 
assured you of my love—is there anything more ? 
Do you expect anything more of me?’ ‘Christ is 
the Son of God, and we are only then His sons if the 
Spirit of love which was in Christ is also in us.’ 

During the night following the 11th November 
he was for the last time quite himself, overflowing 
with affection in word and look, when, between two 


ZEx. 69] LAST MONTH OF HIS LIFE. 398 


and three o’clock on the morning of the 12th, he took 
solemn leave of his wife, with a last kiss, and a flood 
of light beaming from his eyes, which ‘looked their 
last,’ for they never had their own full expression 
again. He repeated as though he had not made im- 
pression enough before, ‘ Love, love—we have loved 
each other—live in the love of God, and we shall be 
united again! In the love of God we shall live on, 
for ever and ever! we shall meet again, lam sure 
of that! Love—God is love—love eternal ! ’ 

Taking food of any kind had for many days been 
impossible ; when the last attempt was made he said 
distinctly, ‘God sees it is no longer needful for me.’ 
So frequently had death seemed to be at hand and 
the continuance of such a life to be impossible, that 
no one supposed the release about. to take place, 
when it was actually imminent. The 26th and 27th 
November were days of misery indescribable ; a degree 
of composure, with a mournful gaze and smile, was 
only obtained on two occasions, when Emilia played 
on the orgue expressif, just beyond the door of the 
next room, while Ernest sung several favourite 
hymns, ‘Jesus, meine Zuversicht!’ ‘Wachet auf, 
ruft uns die Stimme !’ ‘Jerusalem, du hochgebaute 
Stadt!’ and others.* But only a little while did 
this endeavour to tranquillise him prove availing. He 
recognised, on the evening of the 27th, Lady Llanover, 
who had glided into the room and seated herself 
noiselessly at a little distance. He stretched out his 
hand to her, ‘ Very kind, very glad,’ were the only 


* These will be found incomparably translated by Miss Catherine 
Winkworth in that beautiful book, entitled ‘ Lyra Germanica.’ 


304 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1860 


words intelligible. Later, he sent for his eldest 
daughter, but what he eagerly endeavoured to utter 
could not be understood. Possibly the beautiful words 
of the Psalmist, ‘Oh that I had wings like a dove, for 
then would I fly away, and be at rest !’ may have been 
‘the cry of the soul that goeth home.’ 

The watchers round this bed of death had found 
it right and necessary to divide the night-time, and 
relieve each other, too many bystanders at once 
having plainly a disturbing effect. Emilia remained 
by her father’s side the first part of the last night, 
November 27th to 28th, till relieved by George about 
one o’clock in the morning. George retired between 
three and four o’clock, when Ernest took his place, 
and their mother came in at four o’clock, as had 
regularly been the case; the sufferer had. plainly 
indicated for some time that she should not sit up 
late, but in her approach early in the dark morning 
hour he was satisfied, Emilia had left the usual 
charge to George ‘ to let his father feel him near, but 
not see him,’ as she had remarked that the un- 
easiness, which she could not relieve, was increased 
when she looked at him. When his wife came in, she 
found him with closed eyes, and in perfect repose of 
body and limbs ; but the hand, of which she took hold, 
answered not to the touch as usual with a strong 
grasp; there was a continued sound as of clearing of 
the throat, but that had been noticed the evening 
before, and notified at his last visit to Wolff, who 
said, ‘ That embarrassment of the throat is not sur- 
prising, after a cough has lasted so long—that may 
. increase.” Thus everything contributed to prevent 


JET, 69] HIS LAST MOMENTS. 395 


the idea of the common sign of approaching dissolu- 
tion from occurring to her any more than to her sons. 
Soon, however, the fact became evident. As the clock 
struck five, a loud convulsive cough was followed in- 
stantaneously by a sudden stoppage of his breathing, 
which till then had been painfully loud. The two 
watchers, his wife and son, were going to raise him 
higher in his bed, but the head had already dropped 
upon her shoulder, and the last breath had fled! 
The family party came in haste, and remained some 
time round the beloved dead. The eyes continued 
closed,—the features, however, did not retain a trace 
of suffering,—the peace was profound: nothing of the 
ghastliness of death was there. For two whole days 
the remains continued beautiful, as in the most 
tranquil sleep: and invaluable was the privilege to 
the mourners of being enabled thus long to contem- 
plate them, and take in the full conception of the 
blessing granted in that life which had just closed. 
The immeasurable privation sustained in the death 
just witnessed could: only be taken in gradually, 
during the remainder of the survivors’ time on earth. 

In the afternoon of December Ist, the oaken coffin, 
containing all that was mortal of Bunsen, was con- 
veyed to the cemetery at Bonn, in the last rays of 
an unclouded sun. His wish was thus fulfilled; for 
on quitting Berlin in 1858 he had remarked to his son 
George, ‘ On such a day as this should I like to be 
borne to my grave !’ 

The sympathy of friends had covered his last 
earthly resting-place with wreaths of evergreens and 
flowers; and a large concourse of people from all 


396 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1860 


classes were waiting, in silence, to testify by their 
presence to the general respect entertained for the 
departed. 

As the procession of mourners began to move, the 
coffin was carried down the staircase by his sons,* 
Ernest, Charles, and George, and his son-in-law, 
Baron von Ungern-Sternberg, assisted by Drs. Kamp- 
hausen and Bleek, who had been Bunsen’s fellow- 
labourers in the ‘ Bibelwerk,’ and by them it was 
borne along the streets of Bonn to the cemetery, some 
of the students taking their turn as bearers. The 
sounds of a favourite hymn-tune, proceeding from 
the same orgue expressif, to which the departed had 
been so fond of listening, accompanied the coffin as 
it was borne down the staircase, and ceased not till 
it had left the house. And then the strain was 
taken up by the band of the 7th regiment, or the 
King’s Hussars, which attended by the orders of their 
colonel, Count von der Goltz, and was stationed out- 
side the house. The procession was then formed, 
the band heading it, and continuing to play on their 
wind instruments, all the way, a number of German 
hymn tunes which, when once heard, can never be 
forgotten—thus, not only adding to the solemnity of 
the occasion, but also breaking by soothing sounds 
the mournful silence of that funeral cortége, which 
moved on slowly on foot from the house to the 
grave. Next after the band followed a long line 
of students, being a deputation from the students 
of the University of Bonn, headed by their various 


* The eldest son, Henry, was unable, through illness, to be present : 
Theodore, the youngest, was in Japan. 


Er: 69] | HIS FUNERAL. 397 


banners, and attending, as a special mark of respect, 
in their various costumes. Then came the coffin, and, 
last of all, the friends who were able to attend. There 
were no hired officials: no outward trappings of 
funeral pomp. The whole was marked throughout 
as the work of affection and of friendship—it was a 
reality, not a ceremonial. 

As the procession neared the grave, the boys of the 
Protestant School at Bonn, who were stationed round 
it, began with their voices the last service. Then 
Pastor Wolters spoke a few words of exhortation, di- 
recting, with force and feeling, the thoughts of the 
bystanders from death to immortality, from the grave 
to heaven, from man to God. Another hymn was 
sung, and handfuls of earth, thrown into the grave 
by each relative and friend as they cast a last look 
on the coffin, soon hid from view the earthly remains 
now returning as earth to earth, as ashes to ashes, 
as dust to dust. 

‘His soul was joyful in God. Nor was this only 
the case in the latter years of his life: he had long 
before his death reached that innermost depth of 
faith, where all doubts cease and faith is lost in 
sight! He had ever remained unchanged amid the 
changes of the time, with that true piety of heart, 
which springs from the deepest recesses of a devout 
mind, and is for this very reason free from all dog- 
matic entanglements and from mere ritual service.’ 

Such were the concluding remarks on Bunsen, in 
an article written by a friend,* and such was the 


* Dr. Schenkel, professor at Heidelberg, in the ‘Allgemeine kirchliche 
Zeitschrift, Elberfeld, 1861. 


398 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1860 


close of a life on earth, whose course had been one of 
love to man and of aspiration after God. Whaierever 
his lot had been cast,—-whether in his native father- 
land, or in his beautiful Italy, or in that no less 
beloved England, the fatherland of his wife,—there 
he attracted all with whom he came into contact by 
his sympathy and benevolence, by the brilliancy of 
his wonderful mind, not less than by the depth of his 
genuine humility,—loving all and beloved by all,— 
his beaming countenance reflecting, however imper- 
fectly, a soul filled with the love of God. Thus, though 
dead to the world, he yet lives, and will continue to 
speak to his fellow-men through that heaven-born 
spirit, which is the offspring of Him in whom we all 
‘live and move and have our being,’ the Spirit of 
Truth and the Spirit of Wisdom, whose outgoings 
have been, and will ever continue to be, in Love, and 
in Truth, unto all eternity. 

In this spirit he now addresses all the readers of this 
book, in the words of that exhortation of the Prophet 
engraved on the monument which marks his last 
earthly resting-place at Bonn :— 


LaBt uns wandeln im Lichte des Cwigen! 


‘LET US WALK IN THE LIGHT OF THE ETERNAL.’ 


* Tsaiah ii. 8. 


Mit 
ut 


Hii iiceja wi 
Pr ie Wii ! 
ca Wh) ; 





BUNSEN’ S MONUMENT AT BONN, 


APPENDIX. 


An Arnold.* 


Du haft mit uns gefampfet des Glaubens heilgen Kampf, 
Sur alle tief empfunbden der bittren Leiden KRrampyf : 

Du fahft ber Menfdheit nahen Geridt und blut’gen Streit, 
Klar ftand vor deinem Auge der Sammer dbiefer Beit. 


Da traf did) jenes Gehnen, das ftillt ber Erden Gdymerz, 
Gs lSfte fic) in Liebe baé milbe Streiterhersz, 

Begrifteft, Held, alg Boten, gefandt vom Vaterland, 
Den Engel, der did) fihrte ins ew’ge Heimathland. 


Verftummt ift nun am Grabe des Borns und Haffes Wuth, 

Gin Leuchttyurm ragft du firahlend aus nddht’ger Sturmes Fluth, 
Gé fproffet hei ger Gamen in mander jungen Brufi, 

Gin Volk voll edlen Stolzes blickt auf gu dir mit Luft. 


Du felbft bift weggeritcet aus der Verwirrung Noth, 
Das fchwerfte Seelenteiden hat dir erfpart der Bod: 

G8 liegt vor dir enthullet bas Mathfel dtefer Welt, 
Sadauft nun, was du geglaubet, von Gottes Licht erbhellt. 


Wir aber wollen Eampfer, wie du es vorgethar, 

won DHoffnung und in Liebe, mit Glauben angethan, 
Die Ewigkeit vor Augen, Wahrhaftigkeit im Sinn, 
Und geben fiir die Wahrheit das Leben willig hin! 


* Prefixed to vol. ii. of Christianity and Mankind. The translation 
of these lines is given at p. 11 of this volume. 
VOL. II. DD 


INDEX. 


ABE 


BEKEN, Ludwig, ii. 19, 304. 
His friendship with Bungen, i. 

29. His recollections of him, 29, 
His account of Bunsen in Kome, 
286 

Aberdcen, Lord, ii. 204 

Accorambuoni, Casino, Bunsen’s re- 
sidence at, 1. 87 

Acland, Sir Thomas, i. 295, 296, 297 

Adelaide, Queen Dowager of Eng- 
land, ii. 71 

African expedition, the, if. 153 

Agricola, his friendship with Bun- 
sen, 1. 41 

Albert, Prince, ii. 4, 10, 48, 85, 114, 
203. His letter to the Prince of 
Prussia, 151. His conversation 
with Bunsen at Osborne, 152. 
His idea of the Great Exhibition, 
161 

Alertz, Dr., 1. 257 

Alexander, Rev. Dr., consecrated 
Bishop of Jerusalem, i. 373, 374, 
383 

Alfred of England, Prince, 11. 43 

Allegri, his music, 1. 124 

Altenstein, Herr von, 1. 170, 268, 
269 

Amrhyn, Chancellor, 1. 342 

Ancillon, 1. 176 

Anio, falls of the, i. 110 

Apostolic Succession, 1. 259 

Apponyi, Count, 1. 139 ; 

Archeological Institute at Rome, 1. 
214 

Argyll, Duke of, 11. 193 

Army, Prussian mode of treating 
the religious views of the, 1. 177 

Arnim, Baron Heinrich von, i. 142 


RER 


Arnold, Rev. Dr.,i. 190, 294, 311, 
329; 11.5. His ‘Roman History,’ 
i. 256, 291. Bunsen’s letter to 
the Bishop of Norwich respecting 
him, 334. His death, ii.10. Bun- 
sen’s lines on the event, 1] 

Ashley, Lord, i. 311, 368; i. 116 

Astor, William Backhouse, i. 24, 33, 
63, 66, 168; ii. 246, 285. His 
visit to Bunsen, 287 

‘Athenian Law of Inheritance,’ Bun- 
sen’s Essay on the, i. 17, 26 

Augustus of Prussia, Prince, 1. 149 

Austria, proposals of Prussia of a 
union with, 11. 148 

Azcglio, Massimo d’, his work on 
the Italian question, ii. 352 


ADER, his ‘ Emancipation of Ca- 
tholicism from Rome,’ i. 321 

Baini, Maestro di Capella, i. 125 

Bancroft, Mr., 1. 150. His ‘ Ifis- 
tory, 97 

Bartolomés of Strasbure, ii. 169 

Basle, missionary meeting at, 1. 352. 
The remains of the French bomb 
at, 354 

Beaulieu, General Charles do, 1. 
39-40 

Beaumont, M. Gustave de, ii. 333 

Becker, of Gotha, 1. 28, 42 

Beethoven, uncovering of the statue 
of, 11. 57 

Bekker, 11. 303 

Berlin in 1814, 1. 60,61. University 
of, 60. Berlin society in 1827, 172. 
The rising in 1818, ii. 101. Con- 
flict of Frankfort with Berlin, 118 


Dpd2 


404, 
BER 


Rornays, Dr., 11. 181 

Bernstorff, Count, i. 186, 1438 

Beuggen, reformatory at, 1. 355 

Bible, Bunsen’s study and examina- 
tion of the English and German 
texts of the, i. 90 

Bible readers, Tyrolese, i. 165 

Birch, Dr. Samuel, ti. 355 

Bischong, Madame de, i. 52 

Blaise Castle, 1. 295 

Blicher, Prince, 1. 59 

-Bodelschwingh, President von, i. 277 

Bombelles, Comte de, i. 331 

Bonaparte, Jerome, his rule in West- 
phalia, 1. 11 

Brandenburg, Count, ii. 124 

Brandis, Charles, i, 94 

Brandis, Dr., i. 59 

Brandis, Prof. C. A.,i. 87, 64, 94, 108, 
121. His ‘ History of Greek Phi- 
losophy,’ 40. His family, 41 

Breslau, Prince Bishop of, i, 173 

Brocken, Johanette Eleonore, mar- 
ried to Henrich Christian Bunsen, 
i. 5, 15. Her death, 20, 114 

Brooke, Sir James, Rajah of Sara- 
wak, 1i. 187, 284 

Bruno, Giordiano, i). 169 

Buckland, Rev. Dr., 1. 320 

Bulow, Herr von, i. 308, 372: ii, 56 

Bunsen family, eseutcheon of the, 1. 
F 


e) 

Bunsen, Maria Christiana, 1. 4, 45, 
47,55. Her influence over her 
young brother, 7,47. Visits him 
in Rome, 144 

Bunsen, Charles, 1, 128, 268, 333; 
il. 105, 275, 375 

Bunsen, Emilia, 11. 42 

Bunsen, Ernest, 1. 268, 333; ii. 54, 
61 

Bunsen, George, 1. 
300 

Bunsen, Helene, i. 4 

Bunsen, Henrich Christian (Bun- 
sen’s grandfather), 1. 5 

Bunsen, Henry, i. 234, 361, 377, 
380 ; ii. 78, 89 

Bunsen, Henrich Christian (Bun- 
sen’s father), i. 2,14. His say- 
ings, 3. His character, 3. His 


329; 1. 242, 


INDEX. 


BUN 


first wife and children, 4. His 
second wife, 4. Birth and bap- 
tism of his son, C. C. J. Bunsen, 
6. His prayer for his son’s wel- 
fare, 6. Death of his wife, 20. 
His death, 20, 55, 115 

Bunsen, CHRISTIAN CHARLES JOSIAH, 
Baron :— 

— His birth and parentage, 1. 2-6 

— His childhood, and early educa- 

tion, 1. 6-8 
— Influence of his sister Christiana, 


1.7 

— Anecdotes of his early life, i. 8 

— Reads a translation of Shaks- 
peare, 1. 9 

— His fondness for books, i. 9, 17 

— His inability to learn music, i. 9 

— His confirmation, i. 10 

—— His discourse on hope, 1. 10-11 

— Recollections of his schoolfellow, 
Schumacher, i. 11 

— Recites Schiller’s ‘ Bell,’ i. 16 

— Goes to Marburg University, i. 
21 

— Removes to Gittingen, i, 22, 23 

— His friends there, i. 29, 30 

— His motto at Gottingen, and in 
later life, i. 17 

— His essay on the - Athenian Law 
of Inheritance,’ 1. 17, 26 

— Commencement of his friendship 
with Mr. Astor, 1. 24 

— Accompanies Arthur Schopen- 
hauer on a tour, 1. 25 

— Presented to Gothe, i. 25 

— Goes with Mr. Astor to Dresden 
and Leipsig, i. 26 

— Becomes Doctor of Philosophy, i. 
26 

— His review of the year 1812, i. 


— His character of Heyne, 1. 32, 33 

— His journey with Mr. Astor to 
Vienna and the north of Italy, 
1. 33 

— Visits Munich, i. 34 

— His friendships and studies there, 
i. 35, 86 

— His band of friends there, and 
their characters, i. 36, 37, 41 


INDEX. 


BUN 


Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 

— Schulze’s account of Bunsen and 
their friends, 1. 37, 38 

— Bunsen’s first interview with 
Aug. Kestner, 1, 39 

— His first political essay, i. 43 

— Goes to Holland, i. 45 

— His purchase of Oriental MSS. i. 
47 

— Takes his sister home, i. 55 

— Returns to Gottingen, i. 56 

— Revisits Copenhagen, 1. 57 

— Goes to Berlin, 1. 60 

~~ H{is friends there, i. 60, 61 

—— Silver wedding of his parents, i. 
62 

— Death of his father, 1. 62 

—~ Visits Mr. Astor in Paris, 1. 63, 
66 

— His Persian studies there, i. 
66, 67 

— His proposed journey to America 
and India, i. 68 

—~ Goes to Florence, 1. 69 

—- Meets Alexander von Humboldt, 
1, 69 

— Mistaken for the Emperor Na- 
poleon, 1. 70 

— Parts with Mr. Astor. 1. 71 

— His life in Florence, 1. 71,73 

— His introduction to Mr. Cath- 
cart, 1. 72, 75, 77 

— Relinquishes his expedition to 
India, 1. 75, 76 

— His opinion of Niebuhr, i. 77 

— Reaches Rome, 1. 77 

— His life there, 1. 79 

~~ His views as to free intercourse 
between nationalities, 1. 80; 

— His cosmopolitan sentiments, 
i. 82 

— His introduction to Mr. Wad- 
dington and his family, 1. 83. 

— His introduction to his future 
wife, 1. 83 

— His correspondence with Mrs. 
Waddington, 1. 84, 85 

— His prayer at Frascati, i. 86, 


87 
—~- His life there, 1. 87 
— His study and examination of 


405 
BUN 


Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 
the German and English trans- 
lations of the Bible, i. 90 

— His translation of the Bible, 
1.91 

-~ Removes to the Capitol, i. 91, 92 

— Celebrates the jubilee of the Re- 
formation at his house, i. 92, 
93 

— Suddenly introduced to diplo- 
matic employment, 1. 93, 94 

— His answerto Mrs. Waddington 
on the necessity of frequenting 
society, 1. 96 

— His manner of observing Christ- 
mas Evo, i. 98 

— His remarks on his plan of study, 
1. 99,101 

— His prayer for blessing on his 
work, i. 101 

— Receives Louis, Crown Prince of 
Bavaria, 1. 102 

— His reflections on death, 1. 105 

— His parting from his friend 
Brandis, i. 108 

Visits Niebuhr at Tivoli, i. 110 

— Ilis religious progress, 1. 113 

— Ilis course of life at Rome, 1.113, 
114 

— Death of his father and mother, 
i. 114, 115 

— His investigation of the subject 
of liturgies, i. 134, 135 

— I]Iness and death of his daughter 
Mary, 1. 120, 122 

— His wife’s illness, i. 123 

— His own serious illness and re- 
covery, 1. 123 

— His regard for the Baron yon 
Stein, 1. 124 

— His study of ancient music, i. 124 

— Musical evenings at his house, 
1, 126 

— Birth of his son Charles, 1. 128 

— His collection ofhymns,i.178,223, 
228 

— Rewrites Platner’s ‘ Description 
of Rome, i. 128, 129, 170 

—- Goes to Albano with Platner and 
others, i. 182 

— Brought into personal contact 


406 INDEX. 


BUN BUN 
Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 
with the King of Prussia, 1. — Obtains a prolongation of leave 
133 of absence, 1. 176 
— Conducts the King’s two sons — At the Palace, i. 176 
over Rome, 1. 183 — Obtains an amelioration of the 
— Receives a present from the King, treatment of Roman Catholic 
1. 185 Prussian soldiers, 1. 178 
— Named by the King Counsellor — His reflections on the close of 
of Legation, 1. 135 1827, i. 180 
—— Becomes Chargéd’A ffuires during — Madame Mendelssohn - Bar- 
Niebuhr’s absence, 1. 136 tholdy’s account of him, i. 181 
— His proposed study of the Holy -— Named Privy Counsellor of Le- 
Scriptures, i. 137 gation, i. 183 
-— His letter to Count Bernstorff, i. — Sends his Liturgy to the King, i. 
143 184, 192 
— His reflections in January, 1824, © — Interview with the King on the 
i. 147 subject, i. 187 
— His friendship with Count von — Superintends the printing of the 
Radowitz, i. 149 Liturgy by order of the King, 
~—- His correspondence with Niebuhr, i. 188 
i. 150, 158, ¢t seg. — His first meeting with Dr. Arnold, 
— His first mention of Egyptian i. 190 
studies, i. 1538 — Receives a gift from the King, i. 
— His study of Egyptian antiqui- 195 
ties, i. 154 — Leaves Berlin, i. 195 
— His friends in Rome, 1. 155 — Returns to Rome, i. 196 
— Brings the English State papers © — His bust by Wolff, i. 196, 197 
inthe Vatican into notice, i. 156 =— Various portraits and medallions 
— His breakfast parties, 1. 159 of him, 1. 197, 198 
— His friendship with, and cont#m- = — His relations with King Frederick 
porary notice of, Neukomm the William ITT,, 1. 201 
composer, i. 160, 161 — His views on liberty of conscience, 
— His friendship with Kestner, i. 1. 203 
162 —— His ontanglement in the ‘ De- 
— His hymnological publications, scription of Rome,’ i. 204-208 
i, 167 —— His political opinions, 1. 209 
-—— His first official visit to Berlin, i. — His friends at Rome. i. 211, 212 
167 — Becomes secretary-general to the 
— His purchase of a Raphael, 1. 167, Archeological Institute, 1. 215 
169 — His Feyptian rosearches, i. 215 
~~ His arrival in Berlin, 1. 170 — Establishes the Infirmary for 
— His visit to the King at Paretz, Protestants at Rome, i. 217 
1.171 — Restores the Collegium Preuckia- 
— His visits to his friends, i. 172 num to its founder’s intentions, 
— His part in the Silesian negotia- 1. 218 
tions, 1. 173 — His life at Frascati, i. 221 
— Favours of the King and Crown — Returns to Rome, i. 222 
Prince conferred upon him, i. — His prief atthe death of Niebuhr, 
174, 182, 1838, 189, 255, 245 1. 225 
~~ Receives important papers for — His letter of condolence to Nie- 


study and comment, 1. 176 buhr’s widow, i. 228 


INDEX. 407 


BUN BUN 
Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 
— Visits Gregory XVI. at Castel — His review of England and Eng- 
Gandolfo, i. 230 lish life, 1. 305 
— Visited by Sir Walter Scott, i. — His visit to Oxford, i. 307 
231 — His first visit to the House of 
— Draws up the Memorandum of Commons, i. 309 
May 21, 1832, 1. 233 — His speech at the meeting of the 
— Mediates between France and Bible Society, i. 313 
Rome, i. 234 — Returns to Llanover, i. 318 
— His journey with his sons to Ber- — Works at the law of divorce, i. 
lin. 1. 245 318 
— Returns to Rome, i. 248 — His visit to Rugby, i. 318 
— Applies tobe removedfrom Rome, — His speech at the Bible Society 
i. 249 meeting, i. 328 
— His views on reform and revolu- — Dines with Lord Palmerston, i. 
tion, 1. 2538 324 
— His ideas of a national univer- — Hoars Handel's ‘Messiah’ for 
sity, 1. 255 the first time, 1. 326 
— His reception by the Pope, i. -— Again visits High Wood, i. 326 
257 — Degree conferred upon him at 
— Cause of the end of his mission Oxford, i. 327 
at Rome, i. 259 — His visit to Sir Harry Verney, i. 
— Goes to Berlin with his third 329 
and fourth sons, 1. 266, 268 ~- And to Dr. Arnold at Fox Howe, 
— Pleads for the Catholics in the i, 329 
Prussian army, i. 270, 271 — Appointed Swiss Minister, i. 
— His request granted by the King, 330 
i, 274, 275 — His policy in Switzerland, i. 331 
— His reception by Prince Metter- — Again at Oxford, i. 332 
nich, i. 280 — Attends the dinner of the Agri- 
— His return to Rome, 1. 283 cultural Society, i. 332 
— His departure from Rome, 1. 284 — Returns to Llanover, i. 333 
— Returns towards Berlin, i. 285, — His letter to the Bishop of Nor- 
288 wich respecting Dr. Arnold, 1, 
— But receives a prohibition at Mu- 334 
nich, i. 289 — His residence in Switzerland, i. 
— Takes his first Journey to Eng- 340 
land, i. 290 — His feelings on leaving England, 
— His ‘ Egyptiaca,’ 1. 291 i. 339, 340 
— His arrival in London, i. 292 — His friendships in Switzerland, i. 
— Detained through illness, i. 294 341 
— His first visit to Rugby, i. 294 — His advice to one of his sons, i. 
— His visit to Llanover and the 3465 
Cwmreiggyddion, i, 294 —- His recommendation of Profes- 
— His tour of visits among his sor Stahl, i. 351 
friends, t. 295 — Goes to the missionary meeting 
— His stay in London, 1. 297 at Basle, i. 351 
— His State papers on the Cologne -— His visit to the Bueggen reforma- 
question, 1. 303 tory, 1. 355 —_ 
— His opinion on the law ot divorce, © — Summoned to Berlin, 1. 363 


1, 3038 — His mission to England, i. 363 


408 INDEX. 


BUN BUN 
Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 
— His conversation with Radowitz, © — His‘ Church of the Future,’ 11. 53 
1. 364, 365 — His visit to his birthplace, Cor- 
— His audience of Frederick Wil- bach, ii. 51, 60 
liam IV., 1. 366 — His text and translation of the 
— His arrival in London, i. 371 Epistles of Ignatius, 11. 62, 64 
— Reception of his memoir by the — Marriage of his son Ernest, 11. 61 
King, 1. 374, 375 7 — Attends the Princess of Prussia 
— At Pusey, i. 375 in England, ii. 71 
— Prepares to retire from public — Takes the chair at the Literary 
life, 1. 378 Fund dinner, 11. 72 
— Appointed Prussian Minister to — Again at Herstmoncecaux, ii. 78 
London, 1. 379 — Marriage of his eldest son, 11. 78 
— His predilection for the English — His philological studies, 11. 83, 
Church, 1. 381 et seq. 
— His appointment as Prussian — At Osborne House, 11. 85 
Minister, 1. 387 — His reflections on the Cambridge 
—— His visit to Windsor Castle, 1.388 Installation, ii. 85, 86 
— His qualifications for his new — His determination to give up 
position, i. 390 London and diplomatic life, i1. 
— At Carlton Terrace, ii. 1 86 
— Meets the King of Prussia on his — His private audience of the Queen, 
way to England, ii. 3-5 11. 89 
— Receives the King at Carlton — Hisvisitto Woburn Abbey, ii. 92 
Terrace, 1. 5 — At Althorp, 11. 96 
— His illness, 11. 7 — Receives the Prince of Prussia at 
— His lines on the death of Dr. Ar- Carlton Terrace, ii, 102 
nold, ii. 11 — His illness, ii. 104 
-—— His fondness for dramatic repre- — At Totteridge, ii. 107, 108 
sentations, 11, 14 ae — His letter to Mr. Reeve on Ger- 
— His dislike of the opera stage, ii. man progress, 11. 108 
15 — His reflections on Germany at 
— Second edition of his ‘Hymn this period, ii. 113, 115 
Book,’ ii. 16 -—~ His English edition of ‘Egypt's 
— Prosecution of his Egyptian Re- Place in Universal History,’ ii. 
searches, 11. 18 114 
-—~ His life in London, ii. 19 — Goes to Prussia, 01. 115 
— Engages Herstmonceaux, 11. 21 — His work, ‘Deutschland’s Ver- 
— His visit to Sir Robert Peel at gangenheit und Zukunft, ii, 121 
Drayton Manor, 11. 24 — Again in Berlin, 11. 123 
— Summoned bythe King to Berlin, | — His memoir on events at Berlin, 
11, 30 i. 126, 127, 137 
— At Brussels, ii. 31 — His letter to Liicke on Christo- 
— Receives a gift of the King’s por- logy, 13. 140 
trait, 11. 35 — His ‘Church of the Future,’ ii. 
— His lecture on the grant of a 142 
Prussian Constitution, ii. 37 — His conversations with Lord Pal- 
— His ‘ Political Memoirs,’ 1i. 40 merston and Drouyn de Lhuys 
— His tour in England with the on the affairs of Germany, ii. 
Prince of Prussia, ii. 42 148, 150 


— Letter from the King, ii. 44 — At Osborne House, ii. 150 


INDEX. 409 


BUN BUN 
Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued - Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 
~~ His conversations with Prince — His ‘ Bibelwerk,’ ii. 234, 238, 
Albert, 11. 152 252, 253, 270, 281, 312, 361, 
— His speech on the proposed Great 383 
Exhibition of 1851, ii. 157 -— Named to a peerage for life, 11. 
— Marriage of his daughter Mary, 232 
it, 164 — His reflections on the close of the 
— His illness, ii. 164 year 1854, ii. 233 
— His ‘ Life of Jesus, ii. 1938, 234, — His life at Charlottenberg, ii. 
330, 336 234, 241, 264 
— His journey to Germany, ii. 166 — His last letter to Archdeacon 
— His return, ii. 167 Hare, 11. 236 
— First symptoms of his dangerous — Marriage of his daughter Theo- 
illness, 11. 167 dora, ii. 242 
— His philological studies, ii. 168 — His ‘Signs of the Times,’ ii. 242, 
— At work at his ‘ Mgypt’s Place in 248 
Universal History,’ ii. 175 — His calculations of the probable 
— His guests at Carlton Terrace, ii. age of the human race, ii. 244 
181 — His ‘Five Bonifuce-Letters,’ 11. 
— At St. Leonard’s, 11. 181 244 
— Publishes his ‘Hippolytus and — Goes to Marburg, ii. 246 
his Age,’ li, 185 — His ‘God in History,’ 11. 250, 
— His retlections in 1852, 11, 184 257, 271 
— His visit to Scotland, ii. 194 — Taken ill, ii. 251 
-— Completion of his ‘Hippolytus,’ © — Christmas festivities in 1855, ii. 
li, 192 252 | 
— Returns to London, ii. 194 — Discovers the enigma of the In- 
— His desponding views of Ger- dian chronology, 11. 256 
many, 11. 196 — His letter to Mr. Cobden, 11, 259 
— His letter on religious opinions, — His visit to Switzerland, ii. 262 
li. 197 — His return home and illness, 11. 
-— Recalled from his post in Eng- 266 
land, ii. 205 — His prayers, 11. 266 
-—— Proposes to settle at Charlotten- © — Prosecution of his studies, i. 268 
berg, 11. 211 — Remarks on his Bible translation, 
— His work, ‘Christianity and Man- ii, 270 
kind,’ ii. 211 — His last visit to Berlin, 11. 274 


— His audience of the Queen, 11.216 §— His declining health, ii. 275 
-—— His ‘ Philosophy of Religion,’ ii. © — Summoned to Berlin by the King, 


217 li. 289, 292 

— His farewell address to his — His reception at Sans Souci, ii. 
friends, 1. 221 291, 303, 305 

— Leaves England, ti. 221 — His leave-taking from Berlin, 11. 

— At Charlottenberg, 11. 224 306 

— At work at his book on Egypt, ©— His interview with the Prince of 
ii, 224 Prussia, ii. 309 

— His letter toason on his engage- §— His romarks on affairs at Berlin, 
ment, 11. 228 11. 311 

— At Gottingen, 11, 229 — Attacked by influenza, ii, 315 

— Returns from Charlottenberg, ii. — His expression of his religious 


230 opinions, 11. 316 


410 


BUN 


Bunsen, C. C. J.—continued 

— Dr. M‘Cosh’s interview with him, 
1i, 319 

——- His opinion on clairvoyance, ii. 
319 

— Visits Berlin, 11. 323 

— Tukes-his seat in the House of 
Peers, 11. 326 

— His plan for an Academy of 
Sciences, 11. 829 

—— Goes to Geneva and the south of 
France, 11. 330 

— His arrival at Cannes, ii. 332 

— His life there, 11. 332 

— Returns to Charlottenberg, 13. 
341 

— His sympathy with Italy, 11. 342 

— Proposes to apply for the Swiss 
levation, ii, 344 

— His visit to Paris, il. 347, 348 

.— Returns to Cannes, i. 848 

~~ His remarks on the study of po- 
litical economy, ii. 851 

— His researches in Bible Chrono- 
logy, ii. 358 

— The last year of his life, 11. 360 

—_ Retrospect of his stay in Paris, 
ni, 363 

— First stroke of his approaching 
death, 11. 864 

— Hig last celebration of his wife's 
birthday, 11. 367 

— His portrait by Roeting, 11. 368 

— Leaves Cannes, il. 370 

— At Basle, n. 371 

— His stay at Badenweller, ii. 371 

— His journey to Bonn, ii. 372 

— His sorrows and joys, 11. 375 

— His last four letters, 1. 376 

— His last birthday, 11. 379 

— Wishes joy and prosperity to 
Italy and Garibaldi, 11. 382 

— The last month of his life, ii. 387 

— His death, 11. 395 

— His funeral, ii. 396 

Bunsen, Mary, her illness and death, 

1. 120, 121 
Bunsen, Mary, ii. 164, 384 
Bunsen, Matilda, ii. 222, 358, 369. 
Her death, 369 
Bunsen, Robert, of Heidelberg, i. 5 


INDEX. 


COM 


Bunsen, town councillor of Arol- 
sen, 1. 12, 16 

Bunsen, Richard, 1. 59 

Bunsen, Theodore, 11. 285, 350, 368 

Bunsen, Theodora, her marriage 
with the Baron von Ungern-Stern- 
berg, li. 242 


AFFARELLI, Palazzo, Bunsen’s 
residence at the, i. 91 ° 

California, idea of purchasing for 
Prussia, 11. 69 

Cambridge, Duke of, 1. 105 

Cambridge Installation, the, 11. 85 

Canitz, Baron, the younger, 11. 16 

Cappaccini, Monsignor (afterwards 
Cardinal), 1. 153 

Cappellari, Cardinal (afterwards 
Gregory XVI., which see), i. 228 

Carlyle, Thomas, ii. 5 

Cathcart, Mr., 1. 72 

Champollion le jeune, his ‘Systéme 
Hiéroglyphique,’ i. 143, 154 | 

Charlottenhof, the, in. 301 

Chinese writing, ii. 168 

Christian VILI., King of Denmark, 
1. 127, note 

Christianity, remarks on the know- 
ledge of, 1. 100 

Christmas festivities at Gottingen, 

i. 27. German Christmas Live, 
98 

Christology, Bunsen on, 1i. 140 

Clairvoyance, Bunsen’s opinion on, 
ii. 820 

Claydon, visit to, 1. 329 

Clitford, Lord, in Rome, 1. 276 

Clifford, Mr. William, i. 79 

Cobden, Mr. 11. 276. Wis commer- 
cial treaty with France, 352 

Coffin, Sir E., it. 193 

Colchester, Lord, in Rome, i. 130 

Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 1. 305 

Collegium Preuckianum at Rome, 1. 
218 

Commons, House of, Bunsen’s first 
visit to the, i. 309 

Communion, the Holy, Bunsen’s 
views as to the historical treat- 
ment of the, i. 137 


INDEX. 


CON 


Consalvi, Cardinal, i. 110, 138. His 
death, 151. His lust acts, 161 

Copenhagen in 1814, i. 68 

Cornelius, the ariist,i. 78, 102. In 
London, 382. Sir Robert Peel’s 
opinion of him, 382 

Cottu, the pnblisher, i. 205 

Cowley, Lord, ii. 125 

Cracow, affairs of, in 1846, ii. 73 

Cramer, Louise, ii. 52 

Crystal Palace, the, ii. 200 

Cumberland, Ernest, Duke of, i. 
171 

Cureton, Rev. Dr., his ‘Epistles of 
Ignatius,’ 11. 62 

Curtze, Bunsen’s schoolmaster, i. 7 


ALSTON, German Hospital at, 
il. 33 

D'Aubigné, Merle, ii. 298 

Death, reflections on, i. 105 

Denbigh, Lady, her death, ii. 24 

Denison, Rev. Dr., Bishop of Salis- 
bury, 1. 298, 334 

Denison, Mrs. Edward, i. 300, 334, 
377. Wer death, 378 

Devotions, family, i. 177 

Divorce, Bunsen’s treatise on the 
law of, 1. 3038, 318, 321, 330 

Drouyn de Lhuys, on the affairs of 
Germany in 1849, ii. 149 

Dusch, Herr von, 11. 340 

Dutch, their religion, 1. 46 


ARLHAM, ii. 62 
Eberhard, i. 103 
Egerton, Lord Francis, 1. 325 
Egypt, Buusen’s studies in the chro- 
nology and history of, 1. 291 
‘Egypt’s Place in Universal His- 
tory,’ publication of the first 
English volume, ii. 114 
England in 1814, 1.117. Bunsen’s 
review of England and English 
life, 305. In 1849, 11. 149 
Erdmansdorf, settlement of the 
Tyrolese Bible readers at, i. 165 
Evangelical Alliance, meeting of 
the, in Berlin, 11. 290, 295 


411 
FRE 


Exhibition, the Great, ii. 161. Bun- 
sen’s speech on the, 158. Diver- 
sities of opinion on the, 172, 
Opening of the, 177 

Eylert, Bishop, i. 183 


ABER, the officer, i. 60, 52. 
Falk, Johannes, of Weimar, 1. 

358 

Fea, Abbé, i. 214 

Ferdusi, Bunsen’s MS. of, i. 47. 
His study of, 66 

Feuerbach, i. 36 

Florence in 1816, 1. 75 

Forster, Rey. C., his work on the 
Sinaitic inscriptions, 11. 80 

France, indifference to religion in 
general in, in 1880, i. 225. Re- 
volution of 1848, 11.99. Perse- 
cution of Protestants, 322. The 
Commercial Treaty with England, 
362 

Frankfort, conflict of, with Berlin, 
ii. 118 

Franz, Dr., i. 284 

Frascati, i. 87 

Frederick William ITI., King of 
Prussia, his visit to Italy, 1. 
133. His conversations with Bun- 
sen, 135. At Paretz, 171, 172. 
His kindness to Bunsen, 174, 183, 
195, 245. His reception of Bun- 
sen’s Liturgy, 186. His impres- 
sions from his visit. to England, 
198. His ‘Agenda,’ 199. His 
views on mixed marriages, 246. . 
His discussion with Bunsen as to 
Catholic soldiers, 274. Appoints 
Bunsen envoy to Switzerland, 3380, 
338. His death, 347 

Frederick William IV., when Crown 
Prince, i. 183, 171, 176, 213. His 
kindness to Bunsen, 174. His 
visits to Italy, 138, 218, 218. His 
views as to Church government, 
.346, 817. His letter to Bunsen, 
348. Gives audience to Bunsen, 
366. His work, 370. His re- 
ception of Bunsen’s memoir, 375. 


His visit to England, 1. 3. At 


412 


FRE 


Windsor, 4. At the houses of 
the aristocracy, 6. At the open- 
ing of Parliament, 7. His gift 
to Bunsen, 35. His letter to 
Bunsen, 44. Receives Queen 
Victoria in Germany, 55. His 
private letter to the Queen, 89. 
Takes the oath on the Prussian 
Constitution, 156. His last lette® 
to Bunsen, 292. His fatal illness, 
312. 

Freya, garden of, i. 59 

Freybe, Christian, Bunsen’s master, 
1. 21 

Friedrich Carl, Prince, i. 195 

Froude’s §‘ Nemesis of Faith,’ 11. 139 

Fry, Mrs., 1. 316. Visit to her, 317. 
Her death, 11. 61 


AGARIN, Prince, i. 211. 
Gagern, Heinrich von, prime min- 

ister, 11. 135 

Garibaldi, Joseph, 11. 382, 383 

Gau, the architect, i. 207 

Genga, Cardinal della, elected Pope, 
i. 139 

George, Prince, of Cumberland, 1.191 

Gerhard, Dr. Edward,1. 214; ii. 181 

Germany in 1814, 1. 42, 48. Bun- 
sen’s view of the true Germany, 
60. His letter to Mr. Reeve on 
German progress, 11. 108. His 
reflections on Germany in 1848, 
113, 114. Conferences with Lord 
Palmerston and M. Drouyn de 
Lhuys on a German union, 149. 
Prospects in 1852, 188, 196 

Gezler, Professor of Basle, i. 341; 
li. 330 

Gilbert, Dr., Vice-Chancellor of Ox- 
ford, 1. 328 

Gladstone, Right Hon. W. E., i. 
304, 310, 811. His ‘ Church 
and State,’ 1. 302, 304 

Glenelg, Lord, i. 328 

Gloucester, Duchess of, 11. 6 

Gobat, Bishop, 1i. 65, 72 

Gorham Case, the, ii, 163 

Gothe, Bunsen presented to, i. 25. 
His son, 232 


INDEX. 


HEN 


Gottingen, University of, in 1808, i. 
11. Bunsen at, 22 

Graham, Cyril, 11. 324 

Grahl, Augustus, miniature painter, 
1. 155 

Granville, Rev. Court, i. 380 

Granville, Sir Bevil, 11. 74 

Grattan, Mr., 1. 319 

Gregory XVI., Pope, i. 223, 230. 
His reception of Bunsen, 256 

Grimms, the, 1i. 303 

Groében, Count von der, i. 172 

Grote, President von, 11. 32 

Guizot, M., on the influence of the 
French on the civilisation of 
mankind, 11. 152 

Guruey, Anna, 11. 63 

Gurney, Eliza, 11. 286 

Gurnoy, Elizabeth, ii. 54, 61 

Gurney, Joseph John, ii. 62. Bun- 
sen’s testimony to his worth, 75 

Gurney, Samuel, 11. 257 


ADELN, Herr von, i. 60 
Hahn, Baron Paul von, 1. 212; 

ii. 241. Death of his wife, 325 

Hake, General Count, i. 177 

Hall, Sir Benjamin (afterwards Lord 
Llanover), 1. 221 

Hall, Lady (now Lady Llanover), i. 
221 

Hallam, Mr., i. 314 

Hamilton, Mr., English ambassador 
at Naples, 1. 155 

Hampden, Rev. Dr., 11, 92. His 
election, 92 

Hardenberg, Prince, his maxim, i. 247 

Hare, Augustus, i. 239. His death, 
243 

Hare, Julius, i. 877; ii. 5. His 
death, 235 

Harford, Mr., of Blaise Castle, i. 
295. His ‘Life of Michael An- 
gelo,’ ii. 281 

Hartford, Mr. J. B., marries Mary 
Bunsen, 11. 164 

Haug, Dr., ii. 256, 274 

Henckel, Count, 11. 216 

Hensel, Prof., death of his -wife, ii. 
81 : 


INDEX. 


HER 
Herbert, Mr. and Mrs. Algernon, i. 
825 


Herschel, Lady, ii. 78 

Hey, Wilhelm, i. 41. His friendship 
with Bunsen, 41. His ‘ Fables,’ 
42. His death, 41, 42, note. 

Heydt, Herr von der, ii. 297, 325 

Heyne, Professor, his kindness to 
Bunsen, i. 22, note, 23, 27. His 
death, 27. Bunsen’s character of 
him, 32, 33. 

Hieroglyphics, Dr. Young’s disco- 
veries in, i. 153. Lepsius’s re- 
searches, 216 

Hills, Mr. John, i. 217 

‘Hippolytus and his Age,’ published, 
ii. 193 

Hofmann, Inspector, i. 352 

Hofmann, Susanna Catherine, Hen- 
rich Bunsen’s first wife, 1.4. Her 
children and early death, 4 

Hope, Bunsen’s discourse on, i. 
10 

Howley, Rev. Dr., Archbishop of 
Canterbury, i. 368. Visit of the 
King of Prussia, ii. 7. And of 
Queen Victoria, 8 

Hubel, Bunsen’s residence at the, 1. 
338 

Humboldt, Alexander von, 1. 69, 
136,171. His illness, 11. 328 

Humboldt, Baroness Alexander von, 
i. 93 

Hymn tunes, German, 1. 189 

‘Hymn and Prayer Book,’ Bunsen’s 
i, 178, 223. Second edition pub- 
lished, 11. 16 

Hymns, Bunsen’s collections of, i. 
129, 178, 228, 228, Ancient hymn 
books, 178 


thee Epistles ef, ii. 62 

Immaculate Conception, Bun- 
sen’s remarks on the, 11. 225 

Indian chronology, restoration of, 11. 
256 

Inverary Castle, 11. 193 

Italinsky, M. d’, his friendship 
for Bunsen, i. 211 

Italy, war of 1859 in, 11. 387 


413 


LEP 


ACOBI, i. 34, 103, 104 
Jelf, Mr., i. 191 

Jerusalem, the Protestant Bishopric 
of, 1. 378 

Joachim, the violinist, ii. 257 

John, St., Liicke’s edition of the 
Gospel of, i. 40 

Joukofisky, Russian poet, i. 524, 
320 

Jowett, Rev. Mr., his ‘ Thessalo- 
nians,” li. 245 

Jung, Frailein Amalia, ii, 222 


AMPHAUSEN, Dr., ii. 
274 
Kaye, Rev. Dr., Bishop of Lincoln, 
li. 72 
Kestner, Augustus, i. 39. 
of, 162 
Kilimandjaro, Mount, ii. 155 
Kingston Lacy, visit to, i. 298 
Knesebeck, General von, 1. 176 
Knowledge, thirst for, i. 258 
Kocher of Stuttgard, his study 
of ancient music, i. 124 
Krummacher, Pastor, ii. 181 


254, 


Notice 


ABOULAYE, M., ii. 354 
Laboulaye, Madame Edward, 

il. 363 

Lachmann, Carl, 1. 38. His edition 
of the New Testament, 40. His 
early death, 40. His death, ii. 
175 

Land credit system, the, ii. 107 

Langles, 1. 67 

Lansdowne, Marquis of, i. 315 

Lansdowne, Lady, i. 315 

Laval-Montmorency, Duc de, i. 139 

Lawless Club, the, i. 61 

Layard, Mr., his discoveries in Meso- 
potamia, il. 201 

Lee, Dr., ii. 108 

Leo X., Pope, his election, i. 139. 
And obsequies, 219 

Lepsius, Richard, i. 216, 298, ii. 299. 
His Egyptian researches, i. 216. 
In Switzerland, 361. In England 
in 1842, ii. 18 


414 INDEX. 
LET LIN 


Letters from Bunsen to:—~ Letters from Bunsen to:— 


——, 11. 337 7 

Agricola, i. 31, 82, 74; 11. 199, 
243 

Argyll, Duchess of, 11. 286, 378 

Arnold, Dr., i. 190, 237, 249, 252, 
954, 258, 278, 279, 291, 304, 
343, 345, 346 

Becker, 1. 42, 57 

Brandis, Prof. C. A., 1. 45, 63, 64, 
65, 85, 102, 105, 109, 225 

Bremer, Frederica, 11. 261 

Bromley, Miss Davenport, 11. 8 

Bunsen, Frances, Countess von, i. 
168, 170, 172, 176, 180, 182, 


183, 196, 277, 298, 295, 202, 


308, 332, 341, 361, 353, 356, 
364, 370, 371, 372, 374, 377, 
378, 379, 382, 383, 385, 387; 
ii. 19, 22, 24, 27, 29, 31, 32, 
35, 55, 61, 68, 69, 72, 78, 85, 
90, 92, 94, 95, 96, 97, 114, 
118, 120, 122, 122, 124, 148, 
155, 156, 166, 166, 181, 194, 
201, 202, 217, 219, 245, 247, 
249, 246, 2638, 294, 306, 323, 
324, 344, 345, 345, 347, 366 

Bunsen, Maria Christiana, 1. 46, 
62, 65, 67, 77, 78, 79, 92, 99, 
108, 112, 114, 115, 116, 120, 
128, 133, 135, 143 te 

Bunsen, Rev. Henry, j li. 162 

Bunsen, Richard, i. 59 

Colden, Richard, 11. 259 

Father and Mother, i. 23, 27 

Frederick William IV. ii. 292 

Friend, a, 11. 248, 260, 270, 271, 
276, 278, 279, 282, 
$15, 822, 330, 3382, 333, 336, 
330, 332, 341, 348, 351, 352, 353, 
304, 3807, 377 

Fry, Mrs. Elizabeth, 1. 373 31 i. iF 

Gladstone, Right Hon. W. |, 
307 

Graff, Mr., ii. 82 


285, 312, 


Hey, Wilhelm, i. 104 

Hills, Mr. John, i. 304 

Kestner, i. 286, 290, 377; 11. 8, 
54, 170 

Klingemann, 13. 258 

Lady, a, 11. 196 

Liicke, i. 68, 60, 73, 79, 119 ,137, 
250; ii. 140, 192, 226 

Miiller, Dr. Max, ii. 139, 177 

Niebuhr, i. 150, 158, 169, 177, 
218, 222, 223, 225 

Perthes, Frederick, i. 8367 

Pertz, 1. 235 

Platner, i. 305; 13. 169, 108 

Rudolph, W., ii. 316 

Schnorr, Julius, i. 228; ii. 88, 
176, 234 

Schulze, Ernst, 1. 35, 74 

Schumacher, Wolrad, 1.34 

Schwabe, Mrs., 1. 218, 215, 231, 
238, 244, 252, 257, 248 

Sieveking, Syndic, ii. 53, 69, 73, 76 

Sons, his, ii. 29, 50, 52, 65, 66, 
82, 83, 85, 87, 166, 171, 176, 
182, 200, 213, 2238, 224, 225, 
227, 228, 238, 238, 239, 2434, 
249, 267, 288, 294, 3811, 314, 
323, 332, 334, 335, 336, 347, 
348, 350, 352, 353, 355, 356, 
308, 376 

Stanley, Rev. Dr., Bishop of Nor- 
wich, 1. 334 

Stockmar, Baron, ii. 71, 78, 77, 
102, 114, 119, 156, 165, 174, 
175, 183, 185, 201, 203 

Usedom, Herr yon, ii. 101, 111, 
202 

Waddington, Mrs., i. 84, 96, 129, 
840, 358, 363, 388; ii. 21, 74, 
79, 112,114, 153 


Letters to Bunsen from :-—~ 


Bremer, Frederica, ii. 261 
Peel, Sir Robert, i. 382 


Schon, Herr von, ii. 107 
Letter to Baroness Bunsen from:— 
Gurney, Samuel, 11, 7 i) Bunsen, George, ii. 3805 
Hure, Archdeacon, ii. 10, 31, 47, Licber, his personal appearance, ii. 
64, 117, 121, 155, 157, 166, 185, 181 
218, 219 ‘Light, Friends of,’ ii. 69 
Harford, John, ii. 281 Lind, Jenny, ii. 15, 82 


Gurney, Anna, ui, 249 


INDEX. 


LIT 


Literary Fund Dinner, 
chairman at the, 11. 72 
Liturgies, investigation of the sub- 
ject of, 1. 184, 135. Bunsen’s 
Liturgy submitted to the King, 
186, 192. Which is ordered by 
the King to be printed, 188. Its 
principal objects, 192 

Liverpool, visit to, ii. 152 

Louis, Crown Prince (afterwards 
King) of Bavaria, i. 102, 104, 
107 

Lucca, Duke of, 1. 802 

Liicke, i. 88. His edition of the 
Gospel of St. John, 40 

Liincberg saved by Dornberg, 1. 195 

Lushington, Dr., 1. 383 

Luther, Bunsen’s work on, 277, 279 

‘Lyra Apostolica,’ 1. 259 


Bunsen 


Mo Rev. Dr., i. 369 

Macaulay, Mr. (afterwards 
Lord), i. 314 

Macready, William, ii. 14 

Madama, Piazza. musical perform- 
ance in the, i. 132 

Mahon, Lord (now Earl Stanhope), 

1,815 

Mamiami, ii. 169 

Manners, Lady Adeliza, ii, 45 

Marburg, town of, i. 21 

Marburg University, Bunsen at, 1. 
22 

Marriages, mixed, Papal instructions 
as to,1. 222. Bunsen’s notes on 
the question of, 246. Quarrel of 
Prussia with Rome on the subject, 
260 

Married life, Bunsen on, i. 222 

Maubeuge, persecutions In, 11. 322. 

Maurice, Rev.F.,in Switzerland, i,361 

Mazzini, Joseph, ii, 195 

Melbourne, Lord, i. 809 

Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, Felix, 1. 
189, 220. At Rome, 220. At 
Carlton Terrace, ii. 80. His last 
visit there, 81. His death, 87 

Merian, Frau, 1. 352 

Merle, Bunsen’s first preceptor, 1. 6 

Metternich, Prince, i. 280; uu. 57 


415 
NIE 


Metz in 1816, 1. 65 

Meusbach, Herr von, i. 178 

Meyendorf, 11. 128 

Meyer, appointed librarian to Prince 
Albert, ii. 72 

Michuelis, ii. 288 

Michel Vetter, ii. 60 

Mill, John Stuart, ii. 351 

Milnes, Richard Monckton (now 
Lord Honghton). His visit to 
Bunsen, ii. 289 

Minghetti, ii. 351 

Mitscherlich, i. 43 

Montalembert, Count, i. 357 

Morier, Mr. David, i. 339, 861 

Morier, Mr. R. B., 11. 385 

Moscheles, it. 6 

Muir, Mr., ii. 283 

Miller, Dr. Max, 11. 49 

Miiller, Wilhelm, ii. 49 

Munich in 1813, i. $4, 36 

Music of the ancients, i. 124 


APLES, Revolution of 1848, ii. 
97 

Napoleon IIL, Emperor of the 
French, his system, ii. 182. 
Events in 1858, 314. His perse- 
cution of French Protestants, 322. 
The war of 1859 in Italy, 337. 
His manifesto, 352 

Neufchatel affair, the, 11. 271, 275 

Neukomm, the composer, i. 155, 
160, 861; il. 5, 8, 257, 316. Bun- 
sen’s notice of him, i. 161. Iis 
death, i1. 316 

Newman, Rey. Dr., 1. 252, 308, 369, 
376 

Nicholas, Emperor of Russia, his 
journey to England, ii. 38. Iis 
war with Turkey, 200 

Nicholas of Nassau, Prince, 11. 181 

Niebuhr, i. 61, 75, 77, 95,110. In 
Italy, 77. At Rome, 91, 93, 110. 
Conversations with, 110. At 
the grave of Bunsen’s daughter, 
122. His part in Platner's ‘ De- 
scription of Kome,’ 129. In- 
vested with the Grand Cross of 
the Order of St. Leopold, 129. 


416 
NIE 


Conducts the King of Prussia 
over Rome, 133. Receives a pre- 
sent from the King, 135. His 
departure from Rome, 136. His 
‘History of Rome,’ 204. His de- 
scription of the Nubian inscrip- 
tions, 207. His political senti- 
ments, 209, 210,211. His death, 
225. Bunsen’s letter of condo- 
lence to the widow, 228 

Niebuhr, Mareus, ii. 227 

Nightingale, Miss Florence, ii. 12 

Nineveh sculptures, the, ii. 65 

Noirleau, Abbé Martin de, 11. 368 

Nott, Rev. Dr., i. 168, 212, 

Nubia, Niebuhr’s account of the in- 
scriptions of, i. 207 


(aaa Daniel, his elo- 
quence, i. 314. 

Oenlenschliger, 1. 58 

Olfers, Herr von, i. 155 

Ord, Sir F., i. 291 

Osten, Baron Prokesch von, i. 215 

Overbeck, i. 78 

Oxford, visit to, i. 307 


ALESTRINA, his music, i, 124: 
11. 35 

Palmerston, Lord, i. 325. And on 
the Neufchatel affair, 11.90. Anec- 
dote of him, 91. Conversation 
with him on the affairs of Ger- 
many, 148. His speech in 1859, 
335 

Paolo, S., fuori le mure, burning of, 


1. 137 

Peel, Sir Robert, 1. 313, 381. In- 
terview with, 373. Visit to, ii. 
24. His death-bed, 27 

Persian language, the, i. 68 

Perthes, Clement, 1. 41 

Perthes, Friederich, i. 41 

Pertz, Dr., i. 156 

Pfuel, General von, 1. 277 

Philpotts, Rev. Dr. Bishop of 
Exeter, i. 298 

Pinchinat, Maison, Bunsen at the, 
11. 382, 334 


INDEX. 


ROM 


Pius VII., Pope, i. 78. His death 
and funeral ohsequies, 138 

Pius VIII., Pope, i. 223 

Platner, the artist, his ‘ Description 
of Rome,’ i. 128, 204 

Plessen, Herr von, i. 176 

Pope, funeral obsequies of a, 1. 138 

Prentiss, Mr., ii. 20 

Pritchard, Dr., i. 295, 296; ii. 21. 
His house, 1. 295 

Prophets, the old, ii. 50 

Prussia, Princess (now Queen), of, 
her visit to England, ii. 71 

Prussia, government of, 1.259. Its 
quarrel with the Court of Rome, 
259. Its constitution, ii. 77. The 
rising of 1848, 101. Proposals of 
a union with Austria, 148 

Pusey, Mr., 1. 159, 291, 312. Visits 
to him at Pusey, 307, 314, 316, 
376 

Pusey, Rev. Dr., his well-known 
sermon, ii. 29 


ADCLIFFE, Mrs., German 
translation of her novels, i. 9 

Radowitz, General von, i. 149, 365; 
11.186. His death, 204 

Raffles, Lady, i. 316. At High 
Wood, 326 

Raphael, his ‘Madonna della Fa- 
miglia di Lante,’ i. 167, 169, 176, 
182 . 

Reck, Dr., Schulze’s character of 
him, 1. 38. His life at Gottingen, 
41. His letters, 41 

Reformation; celebration of the jubi- 
lee of the, in Rome, i. 93 

Reichenbach, i. 36. His telescope, 36 

Rhine boundary, question of the, in 
1840, 1. 359 

Richardson’s novels, German trans- 
lations of, i. 9 

Rio, M., of Vannes, i. 282 

Ritter the geographer, i. 375 

Rogers, Samuel, i. 301 

Rome, the city in 1823, i. 139. Sun- 
day in, 141. English State papers 
in the Vatican, 156, 204. The 
‘Description of Rome,’ 208. The 


INDEX. 


ROS 


Archeeological Institute at Rome, 
214, The Infirmary for Protes- 
tants, 217. The Collegium Preuc- 
kianum, 218. The font in the 
German chapel, 231. Cholera in 
1837, 275 | 

Rosellini, his work on Egypt, i. 215 

Rosetta stone, the, 1. 153 | 

Rothe, Rev. Richard, chaplain in 
Rome, i. 142 

Rothschild, Baron, 1. 217 

Rouen, visit to, 1. 339 

Russell, Lady Rachel, at Totteridge, 
1. 326 

Russell, Lord John (now Earl), at 
Stafford House, 11. 6 

Russell, Lord William, 1. 370 

Russian sacred mnsic, i. 179, 183 


ACY, Silvestre de, i. 66, 68 
Sadi, Bunsen’s study of, 1. 66 
Sailer, Archbishop of Regensburg, 
1,178 

Sand, George, her ‘L’Histoire de 
ma Vie,’ 1i. 284 

Sandford, Rev. John (now Archdea- 
con, 1. 380 

Sandon, Lady Frances, 1. 310 

Sans Souci, military festival at, 11. 
310. Gardens of, 300 

_Savigny, 1. 61 

Schack, General von, 1. 
172. His services, 117 

Schadow, the sculptor, 1. 103 

Schelling, i. 35, 251. His lectures, 
290 

Schiller, centenary of his birth, i1. 
361 

Schleiermacher, 1. 61, 250 

Schleswig-Holstein question, the, 11. 
186, 191 

Schmolck, Benjamin, his devotional 
works, 1. 7 

Schnorr, Julius, 1. 155 

Schopenhauer, Arthur, his friend- 
ship with Bunsen, 1. 25 

Schopenhauer, Frau, 1. 25 

Schulze, Ernst, 1.65, 73. His friend- 
ship with Bunsen, 36. Bunsen’'s 
account of him, 37, note. His ac- 


VOL. Il. 


116, 17], 


417 
STA 


count of the friends at Gottingen, 
38. His death, 39 

Schumacher, Wolrad, his. recollec- 
tions of Bunsen, i. 12; ii. 52 

Schmedding, Under-Secretary, i. 246 

Schmieder, the Chaplain at Rome, 
1,111, 142. His sermons, 112 

Schou, President, ii. 175 

Schwabe, Mrs. Salis, ii. 215, note, 363 

Schwarzenberg, ii. 148 

Scipio, Wilhelm, Bunsen’s school- 
fellow, i. 11 

Scott, Charles, i. 232 

Scott, Sir Walter, in Rome, i. 231 

Seckendorf, i. 35 

Seeland, i. 59 

Senfft, Count, 1. 309 

Serre, Count de, i. 131 

Seymer, Louisa Ker (afterwards 
Mrs. Denison), 1. 300, 334, 378. 
Her death, 378 

Shakspeare, German translations of, 


1 9 
Sheridan, his ‘ School for Scandal,’ i. 
333 
Sieveking, Dr., ii. 13, 116 
Sieveking, Syndic, his death, ii. 85, 86 
Silesia, troubles in, 1. 173 
Smith, Adam, 11. 351 
Solly collection, the, 1. 176 
Somaglia, Cardinal della, i. 140 
Sophia of Gloucester, Princess, ii. 


Sovereigns, the Allied, in England, 
in 1814, 1.117 

Speckter, Otto, 1. 42 

Spencer, Earl, 1. 332 

Spiegel zu Darenberg, Count, Arch- 
bishop of Cologne, i. 174. His 
death, 247 

Sporlein in England, i. 376. His visit. 
to Dr. Newman, 376 

Spottiswoode’s printing establish- 
ment, 11. 220 

Stel, Madame Auguste de, ii. 262, 
264 

Stahl, Professor, 1. 350; 11. 244 

Stanley, Dr., Bishop gf Norwich, ii. 
22 


Stanley, Rev. A. P. (now Dean), i. 
361; 11. 304 


EE 


418 
STE 


Steffens, i. 172 

Stein, Baron von, i. 44, 124 

Stephen, Sir James, i. 151 

Stockmuar, Baron, ii. 101, 122, 147, 
153 

Stowell, Rev. Hugh, his sermons, 1i. 
25 

Strangeways, Mr., 1. 315 

Strauss, Dr., i. 173, 189. At the 
palace, 179. His ‘ Life of Jesus,’ 
250 

Sumner, Rev. Dr., Bishop of Win- 
chester, 1. 327 

Susemiehl, of Kiel, student of medi- 
cine, 1. 28 

Sussex, Duke of, 11. 6 

Sutherland, Duke of, 11. 6 

Sutherland, Duchess of, u. 6 

Switzerland in 1839, 1. 340, 341 

Sydow, Rudolph von, 1. 147.164. 230 


AULER, publication of his ser- 
mons, 11. 227 

Taylor, Edward, 11. 23 

Telescope, the, of Reichenbach, 1. 36 

Testament, New, Lachmann’s edition 
of the. 1. 40 

Thiers, M., his history, 11. 84 

Thiersch, Bunsen’s conversations 
with, i. 86 = 

Thile, General von, 1. 358, 378, 379 

Thirwall, Dr. (now Bishop of &t. 
David's), i. 107, 212 

Tholuck, 1. 172 

Thorwaldsen, his works, }. 126 

Ticknor, Mr., of Boston, 1. 107 

Tieck, his ‘Puss in Boots, 11. 36 

Tippelkirsech, Herr von, i. 147, 189 

Tivoli, Nicbuhr and Bunsen at, i. 
110 

Tocqueville, M. de, his illness, 11.332. 
His death, 337 

Totteridge, 11. 107, 108, 112 

Tractalianism in England, ii. 49 


LRICH, of Jena, student of me- 
decine, 1. 28, 29 


Ungern-Sternberg, Baron von, his | 


marriage, 1. 242 


t 


INDEX. 


WES 


University, national, Bunsen’s idea 
of a, i. 255 

Usedom, Herr von, 1. 164, 319 

Uxkill, Baroness Clara Boris von, 
ll, 242 


ALETTEH, M., 1. 351 
‘Varnhagen, Diary of,’ ii. 356 
Verney, Sir Harry, i. 329 
Vernon, Mrs., i. 380 
Vicovara, 1. 150 
Victoria, Queen, her reception of the 
King of Prussia, ii. 4. Hervisit to 
Germany, 55. Heranxiety respect- 
ing the education of her children, 
74. Grants Bunsen a private 
audience, 89, Effect on her of the 
news of Sir R. Peel’s death, 165 
Vienna in 1848, 11. 122 
Vischering, Baron Droste von, Areh- 
bishop of Cologne, 1. 264. Ar- 
rested, 266 
Voss, Henry, his song on the new 
year, 1. 28 


j ADDINGTON, Mr., and his 
family in Rome, 1. 79 
Waddington, Mrs., 1.79. Her ill- 


ness and death, 11. 153 

Waddington, Miss, Bunsen’s intro-. 
duction to, 1. 83 

Waddington, Marchesa Florenzi, ii, 
169 

Wagner, Mrs., 11. 217 

Waldeck in 1814, 1. 43 

Waldeck, Christine Wilhelmine, 
Countess of, 1.6. Her kindness 
to him, 21 

Walewski, Count, 11.203 

Weigel, Pfarrer, 1. 20 

Wellington, Duke of, i. 306, 31), 
315. His remarks on military 
regulations, ii. 46. And on the 
threatened disturbances of April 
10, 1848, 106 

Welsh music and poetry, 1. 
Literature, 357 

Westphalia, Jerome Bonaparte’s se- 
vere rule in. 1. 11 


307. 


INDEX. 


WEY 

Weyer, M. van de, Belgian ea tu 
England, 1i. 97 

Whately, Archbishop, i. 949 

Wichern of Hamburg, ii, 181 

Wiebeking, i. 36 

Wied, Prince and Princess of, ii. 
181, 212, 250, 384 

Wiesmann, Pastor, li. 386 

Wigand, Frederica, il. 52 

William, Prince (now King) of 
Prussia, his visit to Rome, 1. 133 

William I., King of Prussia, when 
Prince, 1. 183; it. 36. Visits 
England with Bunsen as_ his 
guide, 42. At Carlton Terraco in 
1848, 102. Returns to Germany, 
112. Prince Albert’s letter to 
him, 151. Bunsen’s interview with 
him, 309. Becomes Regent, 312 

Williams, Rowlard, his ‘ Christi- 
anity and Hinduism, ii, 282 

Willisen, Lieut.-Col., i. 155 

Winkworth, Miss, her translation of 
‘Signs of the Times,’ ti. 242 


419 
ZSC 


Wittgenstein, Prince, i. 185, 247 — 
Witzleben, General, i. 133 
Woburn Abbey, 11. 92. 
Wolff, the sculptor, 
Bunsen, 1. 196, 197 
Wood, Mr., of the High Church 
party, 1. 310 
Wordsworth, William, 1. 152, 1538 
Wyse, Mr., i. 314 


his bust of 


ORK, General, i. 116 
York, Count, son of the pre- 
ceding, 1, 155 
Young, Dr., his discoveries in Egyp- 
tian hieroglyphies, i 1.1038 


U cert ae director, at Benggen, 3. 
356 

Zelter, director of the Sing-Aka- 
demie, 1. 182 

Ziegler, Professor, of Berne, 1. 341 

Zschokke, i. 342 


THE END. 


LONDON: PRINTED BY 
SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STREET SQUARE 
AND PARLIAMENT STREET 


