a vai: . 
rte 


Biogra © 


VA gre 








iw 


cal 


MEMOIRS 


OF 


BARON BUNSEN. 


~——e a ee a eS a 


VOL, I. 


om 





rex e 


Hens, 24.ara 9%. 


Pay. 
i ALICV 
B47. 


FROM A PORTRAIT RY Rit HaAtan ry 


MEMOIRS 


OF 


BARON BUNSEN 


LATE MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY AND ENVOY EXTRAORDINARY 
OF HIS MAJESTY FREDERIC WILLIAM IV. AT THE 
COURT OF ST. JAMES, 


DRAWN CHIEFLY FROM FAMILY PAPERS BY HIS WIDOW 


FRANCES BARONESS BUNSEN. 


SECOND EDITION, ABRIDGED AND CORRECTED. 


IN TWO VOLUMES. 
VOL. I. 


LONDON : 
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO. 
1869. 





S20 
hur 


wt 
<. 





° PREFACE 


TO 


THE SECOND EDITION. 


OL ee 
} A 
THE PRESENT EDITION is an abridgment of the 


Memoir of Baron Bunsen published in 1868. 


The special aim held in view throughout this task 
has been so to shorten the griginal work, that no one 
of the many aspects of Bunsen’s life and character 
shoud be lost sight, of; and that, in fact, the shorter 
biography should convey as much knowledge of him 


as would be acquired from the larger volumes. 


February, 1869. 


CONTENTS 


OF 


THE FIRST VOLUME. 


CHAPTER I. 


EARLY YEARS. 
PAGE 
Birth and Parentage of Bunsen—Boyhood—Confirmation—Schu- 
macher’s Recollections— University of Gottingen—Letters to 
his Family—Abeken’s Recollections—Christiana Bunsen. . . ] 


CHAPTER II. 


Correspondence with Liicke— Niebuhr — Philological Studies — 
Mr. Astor—Visit to Paris—Projected Journey to America and 
India—Italy—Mr. Cathcart—Rome—Love and Marriage . . 6 


CHAPTER II. 


LIFE IN ROME. 


Residence on the Capitol — Reformation Festival — Diplomatic 
Employment — Christmas Eve—Crown Prince of Bavaria — 
Correspondence on German Nationality—First. Child—Church 
Music—Hymns—lIIlness ‘ , : , : . 90 


CHAPTER IV. 


Visit of the King of Prussia—Niebuhr’s Departure—Death of 
Pius VII.—Election of Leo XI1.—Death of Cardinal Consalvi 
—Egyptian Antiquities—Neukomm : ; . 132 


viii CONTENTS OF 


CHAPTER V. 


PRUSSIAN MINISTER IN ROME. 


Business of the Legation—Collection of Hymns — Journey to 
Berlin —Correspondence with his Wife—Reception by the King 
— Society of Berlin — The Crown Prince— Neander — Dr. 
Arnold 


CHAPTER VI. 
RESIDENCE IN ROME —(continued). 


Return to Rome — Prussian Liturgy — Musical Tastes—Church 
Affairs in Silesia—Description of Rome—Niebuhr’s Political 
Opinions—Visit of the Crown Prince to Italy—Archeeological 
Institute—Egyptian Researches—Death of Leo XII.—Revolu- 
tion of 1830—Deuth of Niebuhr—Sir Walter Scott—Corre- 
spondence with Arnold 


CHAPTER VII. 


DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRUSSIA AND ROME. 


Journey to Berlin—Mixed Marriages—Religious State of Ger- 
many —~ New Testament Studies — Quarrel of the Court of 
Prussia and the Court of Rome—Interview with the King— 
The Cholera at Rome—Bunsen leaves Rome 


CHAPTER VIII. 


FIRST JOURNEY TO ENGLAND. 


Reception in England—Sir Benjamin Hall—Mr. Pusey—Arch- 
deacon Hare— Explanation of Prophecy—Visit to Wales — Sir 
T. Agland — Powderham Castle—Gladstone on Church and 
State—Oxford—Parliament — Lord Ashley — ‘Quarterly Re- 
view ’ on Cologne Question—Mrs. Fry—Law of Divorce—High- 
wood . ; : : , ; ‘ 


CHAPTER IX. 


RESIDENCE IN SWITZERLAND, 


The Hubel, near Berne—Reception by the Diet—Swiss Politics 
—Letters to Arnold—Beuggen : ; 


PAGK 


164 


196 


240 


290) 


338 


THE FIRST VOLUME. ix 


CHAPTER X. 
MISSION TO ENGLAND. 
PAGK 
Audience ut Berlin—Bishopric of Jerusalem—Arrival in London 
— Queen Adelaide—Lord Palmerston — Puseyism—Death of 
Mrs. Denison—Dunchurch — Letter from Sir Robert Peel— 
Dinner to Bishop Alexander—Visit to Windsor Castle—Ap- 
pointment as Minister to the Court of St. James’s . . 363 
LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS. 
Portrait or Bunsen, by Richmond Frontispiece 
Bust of Bunssen, by Wolff, 1827 ‘ : im page 196 


MEMOIRS 


, OF 


BARON BUNSEN. 





CHAPTER I. 
EARLY YEARS. 


BIRTH AND PARENTAGE OF BUNSEN-—BOYHOOD—CONFIRMATION—SCHU- 
MACHER’S RECOLLECTIONS—UNIVERSITY OF GOTTINGEN—LETTERS TO 
HIS FAMILY—ABEKEN’S RECOLLECTIONS—CHRISTIANA BUNSEN. 


‘I hope I shall be pardoned for drawing an imperfect image of him, 
especially when even the rudest draught that endeavours to counter- 
feit him will have much delightful loveliness in it.’—Zntroduction to 
‘ Memoirs of Colonel Hutchinson’ 


Bonn : 29th December, 1860. 


Since the last breath was exhaled, and the life of 
life to me, and to so many besides, has been trdns- 
fused to a nobler existence, one month has elapsed, 
during which I have unceasingly meditated on the 
solemn charge given to me on this very day two 
months ago: ‘Write yourself the history of our 
common life. You can do it: you have it in your 
power ;—only be not mistrustful of yourself.’ 

The more I contemplate the richly-filled past, the 
more does it preseht itself as a series of dissolving 

VOL. I. B 


2 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1791 


views, and the more difficult, or rather impossible, is 
it to produce the distinctness called for by a subject 
which has a right to appear as historical truth, not 
mingled with fiction, as is the case with many well- 
known personal records. But my best endeavours 
shall not be wanting: and the result shall go forth, 
claiming the much-required indulgence of my readers. 

My husband was born on the 25th August, 1791, 
at Corbach, in the Principality of Waldeck ; the child 
of parents advanced in life, who had married (in 
1790) for the sake of companionship and mutual care 
in old age, and probably little anticipated such bless- 
ing upon their union. His father, Henrich Christian 
Bunsen (fourth son of an advocate of the same name), 
born 29th May, 1743, belonged to a regiment of 
natives of Waldeck, engaged in the Dutch service, 
which he was induced to enter by the promise and 
prospect of further provision after his term of mili- 
tary service should be past; that is, of such a post in 
his native country as should furnish opportunity of 
working. It was not the bread of idleness that he 
asked or desired. But after twenty-nine years of 
service in a country where, although he made friends 
and was much respected, he was yet a foreigner, 
he came back home-sick to Corbach, to find the 
graves of most of his family; his means of subsis- 
tence being restricted to the scanty produce of a 
few acres of land, and a small retiring pension 
from Holland, besides what his own industry in 
making’copies of law documents might work out in 
addition. 

He was distinguished for correctness of language, 


1791] HIS PARENTAGE. 8 


and an original terseness of expression, which. caused 
his sayings to be much quoted by his son and 
daughter, and to remain firmly implanted in their 
minds. A valedictory utterance, when his son de- 
parted to Marburg, was— 


e Inclothing, live up to your means; 
In food, below your means ; 
In dwelling, above your means. 


Another of his paternal precepts was— 
Werde nicht Soldat. Ducke dich nicht vor Junkern. 


Little as is known of the details of Henrich 
Bunsen’s life, the few outward facts are yet of impor- 
tance in the impressions which they were likely to 
make upon the mind of his son. He must have 
been possessed of very considerable mental powers ; 
was unswerving in rectitude, founded on deep-seated 
Christian faith; remarkable, in an age of general 
laxity in moral and religious observances, for the 
steadiness and fervency of his outward acknowledg- 
ment in word and deed of God and His Providence in 
the world. He gave proofs of unbiassed judgment and 
independence of opinion, not ‘calling evil good and 
good evil ’ because it might be high-placed in human 
society, a quality rare even in our own time, in spite 
of the public experience of the last seventy years, in 
which so many of the strongholds of prejudice have 
been broken down. He it was who implanted in the 
_mind of his son that strong independence of the fasci- 
nation of external circumstances of rank and condition, 
that decided estimation of the dignity of man as man, 
that contempt of pretensions based on the accidents 

B2 


4; MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1791 


of birth and station, upon which his conduct through- 
out life was grounded. Henrich Bunsen must have 
learnt well all that he had the opportunity of learn- 
ing’: he delighted in his Latin lore, and in reading 
as much as his scanty leisure allowed. He was a 
man of warm affections, and had dotingly loved the 
wife of his youth (Susanna Hofmann, married 1771), 
the companion of a part of his term of expatriation 
in Holland, the mother of his two daughters, Chris- 
tiana and Helene ; she died young, in 1782, in giving 
birth to twins, who quickly followed her to the grave. 
The widower, whose scanty means had just supplied 
the needs of himself and family while managed by 
a careful wife, may well have been heart- and spirit- 
broken on finding himself alone, the joy of his heart 
and eyes reft from him, with two very young daugh- 
ters left in want of care, food, clothing, and education. 
But help was near in the person of his sister, married 
in Amsterdam, who obtained the permission of her 
husband to receive her nieces into their family. 
Helene Stricker is said to have resembled her brother 
in person and character, being of strong affections, 
high-principled, and resolute in the performance of 
every duty. 

The course of military service was at length em- 
bittered to him beyond endurance by the successful 
opposition made to his promotion by officers of family 
connections: and he gave up at length, after twenty- 
nine years of ‘ hope deferred,’ and returned to Corbach 
in 1789. 

The family to which Bunsen belonged would seem 
to have dwelt at Corbach for centuries, and the three 


1791] HIS KINDRED. 5 


ears of corn in their escutcheon indicate the condition 
of agriculturists. Bunsen always expressed himself 
as proud to belong to ‘that kernel of the nation, 
the cultivated and cultivating class of society.’ His 
grandfather, Henrich Christian, an advocate in Cor- 
bach, born 1708, was the first of whom any record is 
preserved, as the family abode, with all the family 
memorials it contained, perished in a conflagration, 
which took place during the retreat of the French 
army in the Seven Years’ War. No individual of 
the branch of the family to which the subject of these 
memoirs belonged became known beyond the narrow 
circle of the Principality. Another branch, resident 
at Arolsen, spread into other parts of Germany, and 
from its ramifications have proceeded several persons 
justly held in honour, at Berlin, Gottingen, Frankfort, 
Marburg, Cassel,—from one of whom descends the 
present celebrated professor of chemistry, a man of 
genius equal to his moral and mental worth, Robert 
Bunsen of Heidelberg. 

Henrich Christian took to his wife, in 1790, Johan- 
nette Eleonore Brocken, then aged 41, who had lived 
fifteen years in the Palace of Bergheim, highly valued 
for her intelligent and devoted care of the young 
family of the Countess of Waldeck, Christine Wilhel- 
mine, born Countess of Ysenburg-Bidingen, who 
continued to her for life the small salary which 
she had before received, then considered ample, 
supplied her with the marriage portion of house-linen 
and furniture which a bride in Germany is expected 
to bring of her own, and honoured the wedding, 
which took placé in the church at Bergheim, by 


6 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1798 


giving a dinner and ball in the Palace to the mar- 
ried pair and their guests. These instances of favour 
indicate unusual merits in the object of them: and 
they must the less remain unnoticed, as Johannette 
Eleonore has left little other trace of her existence, 
besides the material one of being the mother of her 
son. But although she took the best care of the 
infant years of her only child, she made upon his 
mind no such impression of devoted love as to excite 
a warm return on his part, and his first consciousness 
of feminine tenderness and of the maternal qualities 
which attach a child was awakened by his eldest 
sister Christiana. The portraits of the parents tes- 
tify to the resemblance of the son to his father; of 
his mother’s features none could be traced in him 
but her short and curling upper lip. 

The birth of this son is marked by the father in his 
note-book on the 25th August, 1791, and his baptism 
on the 28th (the next following Sunday), in St. Kilian’s 
church at Corbach. After notification of the birth 
and baptism, the father has added the ejaculation, 
‘O God, guide him by Thy grace, and let him grow 
up in Thy love and fear and in all virtue, to the joy 
of his parents. Amen. Henrich Christian Bunsen.’ 

This prayer was indeed heard, and answered to the 
full. 

The same fatherly hand kept note of the date, 4th 
September, 1797, when his son, six years of age, began 
to have private lessons from a student named Merle, 
reading and writing having been previously taught him 
by the parents, whose handwriting was remarkably 
good. The date is also given, on the Ist January, 


Er. 7] HIS BOYHOOD. 7 


1798, of his reading the morning prayer out of the 
collection of Benjamin Schmolck* at the family devo- 
tions. When at Easter of the same year he was ad- 
mitted to the Gymnasium or Latin School of Corbach, 
under Curtze, who was then the master, he at once took 
a higher class than was usual with beginners. Hvery 
date has been preserved of his progress up to the high- 
est form, which .he reached at Michaelmas, 1808, at 
sixteen years of age. All accounts testify to his having 
seized upon the information offered as a property to 
which he had a natural claim, achieving tasks with a 
power and certainty as though he already possessed | 
by intuition the knowledge he was acquiring. Thus 
he became the delight of his teachers and the pride 
of his father, while with his schoolfellows in general 
he was popular, as he had always time and power to 
spare to execute the tasks which others had not ac- 
complished ; in return for which help he required 
those who possessed voices to sing to him, or when 
rambling in the woods to pick for him wild straw- 
berries, which his shortsightedness prevented him 
from seeing on the ground. 

The person whose influence, after that of his father, 
told most upon the years of his childhood was his 
sister Christiana, eighteen years older than himself, 
the greater part of whose early life was spent in the 
Netherlands. She paid a visit to her father at Corbach 


* The helps to devotion both in prose and poetry of this pious and 
venerable writer were widely spread in private families in Germany 
during the former part of the eighteenth century; and selections from 
them are found in Bunsen’g Hymn Collection, pubiished in 1832, where 
the catalogue of hymn-poets contains a short notice of his life. 


8 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1805 


(probably in 1798 or 1799) and had the power of 
interesting and attaching her young brother more 
than any other person, impressing upon his mind the 
conclusions of her powerful and independent under- 
standing, and her principles of unflinching rectitude 
and sound Christianity. Her recollections have fur- 
nished the few anecdotes that remain of his boyhood. 
She described him as a beautiful child, fair-com- 
plexioned and curly-haired, with the bright eye and 
fine chiselling of features which they who have seen 
him to the last still holdin remembrance: self-willed 
and unmanageable except by his father, to whose 
authoritative commands he never failed to yield, as 
with herself he readily gave way to reason, or pro- 
mised submission when she threatened never again 
to sing to him. An incident of earliest days might 
seem too insignificant to mention, were it not ever 
worth while to evoke a pleasing vision before the 
mind’s eye. He had been taken out to walk at some 
distance from his native town, where the corn and 
grass fields alternated without intermediate fences, at 
the time of year when both were grown high. His 
parents walked along the path, and he vanished from 
their sight. After a time they searched and called in 
all directions, and at length found him sitting, over- 
shadowed by the tall grass standing for hay, and so 
perfectly happy in seeking flowers that he was neither 
frightened at being alone, nor roused from his infant 
reverie and contemplation by the frequent sound of his 
own name. 

Throughout life he had intense delight in air and 
sunshine, and the sight of God’s creation; butymore 


Zr. 14] . EARLY READING. 9 


in its combined effect, than in its individualities ; and 
though capable of much bodily exertion, he had no 
taste for exercise for its own sake, but preferred to 
imbibe pleasure in perfect ease and repose, as in 
infancy. " 

Between the ages of thirteen and fourteen, Bunsen 
was in the habit of saving all the small coin he became 
master of, to purchase books, or to subscribe to the 
circulating library of Corbach, the catalogue of which 
was scanty in proportion to the rate of subscription, 
and consisted mainly of works of a class, upon which 
in the whole remainder of his life he bestowed the 
very smallest fraction of time and attention; namely, 
novels, chiefly translations from Richardson and Mrs. 
Radcliffe: but he found there, and eagerly devoured, 
a translation of Shakespeare’s works, which, however 
indifferent, was the best in existence previous to the 
incomparable work of Schlegel. Besides these he had 
read all the books in his father’s small collection, and 
those belonging to neighbours. About this time he 
learnt English, from the pastor of a distant village. 
Glover’s ‘ Leonidas’ is mentioned as one of the books 
they read together, a copy of which had strayed into 
the possession of the pastor, whose small store formed 
the whole amount of English literature thereabouts 
attainable. 

An attempt to teach him to sing, as all others were 
taught in the earliest school-years, was given up as 
fruitless. He had, however, great pleasure in hearing 
music, and an extremely keen perception of correct 
tune; but he couldnot accomplish the notes of the 
scale, and would himself relate that he could go up, 


10 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1808 


but always failed in coming down again. His father 
had made a point of his attending a dancing class for 
a short time, but all endeavours proved vain to drill 
and discipline the movements of his limbs. 

At the age of fourteen his Confirmation took place, 
after six months’ attendance upon the regular teach- 
ing of the Pastor of St. Kilian’s Church. From his 
recollections of the tone and tendency of this course 
of instruction, it must have been that of the latter 
half of the eighteenth century, in which a system of 
half-virtues and half-truths was inculcated under the 
name of Christianity; and it presented itself to his 
reflecting mind in strong contrast to the faith, which 
had been the support of his father through all the 
severe trials of his life, and to those manly Christian 
principles, to which Bunsen had listened with rever- 
ence from his infancy. Christian convictions, refer- 
ence to Providential guidance, ‘vindication of the 
ways of God to man,’ uncomplaining endurance of an 
uninterrupted course of labour and struggle under 
narrow circumstances, were by precept and example 
habitually inculcated in that paternal dwelling; and 
these impressions were so strong at that period of his 
life that the plan of devoting himself to divinity as a 
profession was the first he formed; and it was long 
adhered to, as extracts from his early letters testify. 


From a Letter to his eldest Sister, Christiana. 


f Translation. | Corbach: 14th I'ebruary, 1808. 
According to your desire, I send my discourse on Hope, 
which, as containing the thoughts of a brother, may not 
displease you. It is very short, because the regulation is 


x. 17) SCHUMACHER’S RECOLLECTIONS. 11 


absolute, not to occupy more than ten or twelve minutes, 
which is @ very narrow space for a subject so abundant. A 
copy was sent to the Countess at Bergheim, by her desire, 
and she thought well enough of it to send it for my better 
recommendation to Gottingen, from whence as yet no answer 
has been received ; and I doubt much whether any can soon 
be expected, for the Professors are in a state of extreme 
oppression, the contribution of 174,000 francs being laid 
upon forty of their number, to be divided among them as 
best they can, which may well fall heavily upon many. 


The oppressive and demoralising rule of Jerome 
Bonaparte weighed heavily upon Westphalia. 

This is the place most fitted for the introduction of 
portions of a valuable contribution connected with 
Bunsen’s boyhood, from a beloved schoolfellow, who 
survived him buta year. It seemed advisable not to 
suppress the latter part of this paper, written at the 
especial request of the editor of these pages, even 
though it extends beyond the period as yet under 
contemplation. The writer, Wolrad Schumacher, 
was often mentioned by Bunsen as one of the two 
schoolfellows between whom and himself the strong- 
est attachment subsisted ; the other being Wilhelm 
Scipio, selected in 1848 to be, for a short time, the 
ruling Minister in the Principality of Waldeck, to 
which he belonged. The only record of Wilhelm 
Scipio, who was early withdrawn from a life with 
which he was not fitted to contend, is in the follow- 
ing words of Schumacher :—‘ Wilhelm Scipio was an 
amiable youth, who, owing to his gentleness and 
an impediment in his speech, was much teased by 
schoolfellows ; therefore peculiarly adapted to seek 


12 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1806 


and find refuge and kindness with Bunsen, who 
loved what was refined and protected what was 
oppressed.’ 


RECOLLECTIONS OF BUNSEN. 


By Woxrap ScHUMACHER, OF AROLSEN. , 


[Translation. ] 

‘The question asked is, What was the boy Bunsen ? 
I can only reply by giving to understand what he 
was to me—what was the effect of his life and being 
upon me; and for that purpose I am compelled in 
the first place to speak of myself. 

‘T lived at Arolsen happily in the years of childhood, 
well off in everything that could rejoice or animate 
the heart of a boy. I hada father to whom I looked 
up as the model of what a man ought to be. ... 

‘I had a mother, as gentle, affectionate, ready to 
help and console in all conditions and contingencies, 
as good a support and refuge, as ever boy had. Also 
an elder and devoted sister, whose bright eyes were 
ever lovingly directed towards me; who led me to 
my earliest school, and with whom my relation was 
one of unruffiled peace. Opposite to me dwelt the 
friend early won and long preserved,* and his father 
the Town-Councillor Bunsen. .. . 

‘If my personal circumstances were favourable, local 
circumstances were not less so. The open, cheerful, — 
well-kept town, the many avenues of oak and chest- 


* This was Reinhard Bunsen, who entered the public service in Prussia 
early in life, and died a judge at Berlin in 1863; a friend through life 
to Bunsen, as his father had been among the first kind promoters of his 
outward interests. 


Er. 14] SCHUMACHER’S RECOLLECTIONS. 13 


nut trees, the abundant fruit-gardens in which the 
town seemed imbedded, the neighbouring woods, the 
wide spaces for kite-flying—nothing was wanting to 
our enjoyment. So far all was well; but I was now 
called to experience the first changes of fate, and 
what it is,in life to suffer privations. ... 

‘On a sudden it was decided that I was to be sent 
to school at Corbach, where I had an uncle. I had 
scarcely comprehended or fancied what was to betide 
me, when one Sunday in November, 1805, an oppor- 
tunity offered of a conveyance to Corbach by which 
I was to go at once. I left Arolsen with extreme 
sorrow, which was not diminished by the gloomy 
aspect of my new abode and my new teacher. But 
my heart did not break nor harden. All at once I 
found myself sitting beside Christian Bunsen, in the 
dwelling of his parents, kindly received by them as 
well as by their son. How this happened I have no re- 
membrance, so suddenly and rapidly did all the late 
occurrences drag me along with them ; butallat once 
I found myself spending whole winter evenings in 
that house. The father read the newspaper or a 
book, the mother sat by him knitting, a female 
servant was spinning in the corner behind the stove, 
Christian and I sat on a bench under the window 
towards the street, somewhat in the shade. Little do 
I recall of what was spoken, when suddenly we start 
up at the sound of a bell which summons me home; 
the leave-taking at the house-door extended to some 
length ; then he accompanies me to my home; I follow 
him back to his own; till at last parting becomes 
unavoidable. Thus passed the winter of 1805, when 


14 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1805 


in every free hour of the day I sought refuge in 
Bunsen’s abode. .. . 

‘To describe the external appearance of Bunsen at 
that age would be a task beyond my power; but the 
photograph after Richmond’s portrait has enabled me 
to recall much that was striking in the expression of 
his countenance even in those early years, particularly 
in the eye, with its bright clear depth, conveying the 
consciousness of cheerful, or rather joyous enthusi- 
asm; while the strength of character and power to 
rule and influence was instinctively felt, as though 
remaining in reserve until the will should summon 
them to action. 

‘The father of this remarkable boy was a little aged 
man, of strongly expressive features, with penetrating 
resolute eyes and bushy eyebrows; decided, hot-tem- 
pered, but, when the outer world showed itself peace- 
ably towards him, full of kindness and good-nature. 
Firmness, faithfulness, and integrity were clearly de- 
noted in his whole countenance, and also the power 
and will to defend himself to the uttermost against 
any aggression. He had quitted with honour the 
Waldeck-Dutch military service, his right shoulder 
and leg both injured ; butin spite of this infirmity he 
retained his upright carriage and military demeanour 
so thoroughly, that when, in exercising on certain 
days in the year a company of country militia, he 
stood in soldierlike bearing in his plain blue and 
yellow uniform with scanty epaulettes, sword, and 
cane, he might have been the very image of a worn 
and weather-beaten old English admiral. Except on 
such an occasion, or when, in his private capacity or 


JET, 14] SCHUMACHER’S RECOLLECTIONS. 15 


in that of a citizen, some right was to be maintained, 
he rarely showed himself in public. He lived upon 
a small pension and the produce of an insignificant 
landed property, with the help of what he could earn 
in transcribing the business papers of an advocate of 
Corbach. . . . 

‘The mother was a small delicately-formed woman, 
always active and occupied with the objects of her 
care; casting looks of respect upon her husband, 
while looks of love were all bestowed upon her darling 
son. Both parents Jived in the love and fear of 
God, and in habits of prayer and religious edifica- 
tion. ... 

‘Christian Bunsen’s own small room was in the 
upper story, towards the garden. Here, during my 
Corbach school-years, did I go in and out, finding 
my friend never otherwise than occupied, full of zeal 
and earnestness over his books. In the morning he 
was up with the sun, which shone straight into his 
window, looking to the east. During the summer 
evenings, when I came in the twilight to fetch him to 
walk, he was reading or writing, but ever turned 
from his occupation to receive me with bright kind- 
ness. Throughout the school, he was admired as a 
genius, but by no one so much as by myself. . . . In 
knowledge and comprehension, no individual could 
measure with him in any degree, and his laborious- 
ness cast all the rest into shade. The execution of 
an essay of forty-one pages, set as a task, in one 
week, was unheard of except in his case; and the 
sixty pages of fair ¢ranscript accomplished in one 
Sunday for the procrastinating advocate, to help his 


16 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1809 


overtasked father, might well astonish those aware 
of the fact. Yet more was his memory matter of 
astonishment. On a day of school-examination, Coun- 
sellor Bunsen of Arolsen, who was the appointed 
commissioner, expressed the wish to hear Schiller’s 
poem of “ The Bell ” declaimed the following day, and 
the question went round who would volunteer for this 
performance ; but as no one had already learnt the 
poem by heart, no one would offer to learn and recite 
it in that short time. Christian Bunsen, however, 
nothing daunted, and believing in the possibility, ac- 
cepted and executed the task... . 

‘I never saw him playing at games of skill or 
chance, nor indeed at any festival or fruit-gathering ; 
he loved to bathe, and sometimes would play at ball, 
also at chess or picquet with me alone, on which 
occasions I found that the niceties and refinements of 
the games were almost instinctively perceived by him. 
I had opportunity of observing the right feeling 
which dictated his behaviour towards a very young 
female cousin, who was for a time on a visit to his 
parents. She was thoroughly shy and apprehensive, 
but the kindness of his little cares and attentions 
soon gave her courage even so far as to venture to 
Join in our conversation. His notice of her was not 
owing to any preference, but granted as due to her 
tender age and her relationship. 

‘His share of the payment of the sivcats which 
his father failed not punctually to deliver to him as 
soon as obtained, was scrupulously laid by and never 
broken into, that it might accumulate into a suffi- 
ciency for the purchase of books (such as a new 


ZEr. 18] SCHUMACHER’S RECOLLECTIONS. 17 


edition by Wolff or by Voss), which when he was so 
happy as to have acquired he hastened to secure from 
injury in a handsome half-binding. I have never 
met in life a more passionate lover of books, and with 
the bookbinder he entertained ever a sort of intimacy 
and sympathy. Sometimes would he let fall a word 
about India, which was unaccountable to me, as at 
that time I connected only a geographical conception 
with that name. 

‘ His behaviour towards all his teachers was exem- 
plary; but his relation to each of them was differ- 
ent, and the variety of feeling was denoted distinctly 
though delicately, whether by tone of voice, or the 
expression of eye, or a more respectful distance in 
manner; but even where he doubted the authority of 
the weaker head, no sign of disrespect was suffered 
to appear. His gratitude towards the dispensers of 
instruction was invariable and deepfelt. ... With 
regard to his schoolfellows in general he was the 
inost inoffensive youth in the entire school, but in 
self-defence, if aggression were attempted, he could 
be terrible in expression of countenance and resolute 
demeanour; when, however, these means of intimi- 
dation had proved sufficient, sunshine returned in- 
stantaneously. 

‘Plus ultra was Bunsen’s motto during the time at 
Gottingen; later, as is well known, he chose In 
silentio et spe. 

‘The great event of his stay at Gottingen was his 
first literary attempt, an Essay on the Athenian Law 
of Inheritance, whichyobtained the prize, and at- 
tracted much attention. He accomplished this work 

VOL. I. Cc 


18 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1812 


in the summer of 1812, during which he attended the 
lectures on the Pandects by Hugo, in order to take in 
the whole subject of laws and customs regarding inhe- 
ritance, which he also went through with Dr. Reck, or, 
according to his own expression, caused to be beaten 
into him. On the important day of degision (15th 
November, 1812) I was stationed at the aula to bring 
instantaneous intelligence of the name to which the 
prize would be adjudged—to him who waited at home. 
I took my post close to the door, and as soon as 
Mitscherlich, having unfolded the sealed paper, had 
read the name, ‘ Christianus Carolus Josias Bunsen,’ 
I ran off without hearing what followed. The joy 
which my news created is not to be described ; it 
had no check, and seemed to have no end, making 
its way in rapturous demonstrations. At such times 
Bunsen was most attaching, pouring forth his very 
soul of light and love towards his sympathising 
friends. Great was my surprise the next morning 
early, to find him at his work, absorbed as usual, as 
though nothing uncommon had happened. 

‘The demeanour of Bunsen was peculiar and ori- 
ginal under the anticipation of any critical turn in 
life. Moved evidently in his inmost consciousness, 
he yet seemed to behold that which was impending 
as without him, or rather above him. From whence 
help was to come he doubted not, the question how 
occupied his serious cogitations; yet did he live on 
cheerfully the while in a certain quiet confidence. ... 

‘I saw Bunsen on his return from a visit to Berlin 
in 1828, at his birthplace. He had issued forth from 
that dwelling with the thatched roof ten years before 


fer. 21] SCHUMACHER'S RECOLLECTIONS. 19 


and was now &@ man upon whom many eyes and hopes 
were fixed. How handsome and how winning did I 
feel him to be! how greatly was I impressed by the 
maturity of his entire being, the grand style of that 
countenance, of energetic earnestness, never so strik- 
ing as wher lighted up by a smile! It was at this 
time that his likeness to Napoleon I., which in his 
journey through France in 1816 nearly brought him 
into trouble, was especially observed. (A portrait of 
Napoleon as First Consul, presented to the town of 
Briigge, and now hanging in a hall at the Townhouse, 
may be mentioned as bearing a remarkable resem- 
blance to Bunsen at this time.) In the year 1845, on 
his way from the Castle of Stolzenfels, I saw him 
again in his native town, and in 1852 I was with him 
on “the second Capitol” as he called Carlton Terrace 
in London. (This was an allusion to his words on 
leaving the long-enjoyed dwelling at Rome. In 
strongly compressed emotion he exclaimed, on passing 
through the door, never to be re-entered, to his wife 
and surrounding friends, ‘“‘ We go to build up another 
Capitol.”) His head had then gained a new beauty 
in softand waving silvery hair; otherwise in nothing 
did I find him altered. 

‘Overlooking his life, as I now can from first to 
last, I behold ever the same thread, the same tissue : 
I have never perceived a change, and to believe that 
any such had taken place would be impossible to me. 
At the time when his influence was great with 
Frederick William ITI. and with the Crown Prince, 
afterwards Frederick William IV., great was also the 
spite entertained against him in well-known circles : 


20 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1808 


@ consequence of which was his being accused of 
“intrigue,” and of being more sly than any man 
in the monarchy. Iconsider such tendencies to have 
been foreign to his nature, and that no crooked ways 
can be found in his course of action. The words 
of Gustavus Adolphus, used in allusion to himself, 
might apply here also: Qwi se fact brebis, loup le 
mange.® .. 

‘The current of certain conviction, rising from the 
depths of the heart, flows through the works of his 
riper age, in his ‘‘ Hippolytus,”’ in “‘ God in History,” 
in the “Introduction to his Bible Work:” like the 
gulf-stream, imparting renovating warmth wherever 
its influence reaches. 

‘Bunsen’s mother died the 27th December, 1819, 
his father on the 18th January, 1820. Inthe Church 
Register at Corbach, after the notice of the death of 
the latter, are inscribed the words “ Hominis probi,” 
by the incumbent, Pfarrer Weigel, well known as 
strictly conscientious, loving and observing truth: 
, and such a testimony to the worth of the deceased is 
the more to be noted, as single in its kind in that 
register. 

‘Had the death of that man’s son been marked in 
a similar manner in the Register at Bonn, I can for 
my part entertain no doubt as to the words which 
would have been suitable :—but the significance, the 

* Reinhard Bunsen, speaking of the subject of this memoir in a 
letter dated Berlin, 28th December, 1841, confirms this statement of the 
jealousy which many persons of distinction felt towards him at the time 
referred to. ‘Apart from his being,’ he says, ‘a parvenu and not noble. . . 
his demeanour, which is that of a man who crouches before no one, is 
peculiarly hateful to them.’ 


ZEr. 17] AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MARBURG, 21 


worth, the importance of Bunsen’s life, character, 
and works, are not yet acknowledged, according to 
his full desert, in the father-land: as they one day 
will, and as I believe they are beginning to be 
unfolded.’ 


During the combination of home-life with the 
school-teaching of Corbach, Bunsen’s father had made 
it possible, by dint of industry, to bear the cost of his 
son’s education; but, to meet University expenses, 
other help was indispensable, and as early as 1802 
application was made for one of the ‘ stipendia,’ or 
scholarships founded by the liberality of former rulers 
of Waldeck, for the support of students at the Univer- 
sity of Marburg. The testimony of merit granted by 
his master, Christian Freybe, dated May, 1808, was 
most forcibly worded; yet it was not without diffi- 
culty and delay that, at the intercession of his god- 
mother the Countess of Waldeck, Bunsen obtained 
the small allowance of fifty thalers, with which he set 
forth on the 29th October, 1808, with five fellow- 
students, towards Marburg, being entrusted with the 
money intended for three of them, besides a hundred 
thalers, the remnant of the savings of his father’s 
hard working years. His account-book, still extant, 
shows that he most scrupulously fulfilled the trust 
reposed in him. ‘ 

Bunsen always remembered with pleasure the year 
he spent in Marburg, and was strongly impressed by 
the picturesque aspect of the town, the beautiful 
architecture of the church of St. Elizabeth and the 
surrounding country; but he was soon convinced 


22 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1809 


that it was too small a University to offer the oppor- 
tunities he needed, both for advancement in his 
pursuit of knowledge, and for giving instruction to 
others with a view to self-support. It is recorded that 
Arnoldi, the chief Professor of Theology at Marburg, 
expressed regret at Bunsen’s not having been induced 
to remain there and follow that course of study ; the 
more so as he had once preached a sermon in the 
church of St. Elizabeth, as it seems, with general 
approbation.* Bunsen mentions in one of his early 
letters an apprehension that neither his voice nor 
chest were strong enough for the calling to which he 
then felt most inclined—a circumstance which may 
well surprise those who had opportunity of observing 
the uncommon power of both these organs, even to the 
close of his life. The decision to leave Marburg, and 
thus renounce the scholarship granted for studying at 
that especial University, was an act of great moral 
courage ; for he was well aware that at Gottingen 
his expenses would be greater, and his apparent 
means of meeting them still more inconsiderable ; 
‘but he reckoned upon the opportunities offered by 
the more distinguished University, and upon the 
countenance of the distinguished Heynet (to whom 
the Countess of Waldeck had recommended him), 

* It is not unusual in German Universities for students who have 
attended the lectures of Professors of Divinity to be invited and en- 
couraged to preach occasionally, even though they may not have decided 
finally upon following up that career. 

~ Hoeyne was at that time the leading classical scholar in Germany, 
and his edition of Jirgil is still a standard work. His place as a com- 
mentator is described as being not in the critical school, but rather 


among those who draw the reader’s attention to the matter treated, and 
to the esthetical merits of the author. 


ZEr, 18] ENTERS GOTTINGEN. 23 


and, above all, he was conscious of the ‘ man within 
him,’— 

‘And, full of sangftine youth’s ingenuous creed, 

Thought worth must rise and talents must succeed.’ 
The enlargement of mind and liberality of views which 
caused the father to grant the meed of his approba- 
tion to thé determination of his son, without any 
attempt at controlling his freedom of action by the 
dictates of common-place prudence, is worthy of 
the more admiration as his was an authoritative 
nature, and, during the childhood of his son, when 
he had expressed his will, he would be obeyed. But 
he had formed a just estimate both of the abilities 
and character of the treasure granted to his old age, 
and, far from trammelling his independence of action, 
he granted him the support of his confidence as well 
as of his devoted affection. 

In October, 1809, at eighteen years of age, Bunsen 
entered Gottingen, where Heyne, full of years and of 
honour, received and treated hin with paternal kind- 
ness, perceiving from the first that he had to do with 
a student of uncommon gifts and acquirements, and 
meeting with the sympathy of genius the confiding 
nature of Bunsen. But the memorials of this golden 
period of life, as Niebuhr calls it—Dvie goldene Zeit 
des Werdens—are, unhappily, very scanty. A few 
letters only have been preserved. 


Letter to his Parents. 
[Translation. ] Gottingen: 25th March, 1810. 
This letter will be unexpected by you, but yet more un- 
expected the intelligeng that you will find in it, which has 
been to myself no less surprising. .. . 


24 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1810 


Last Friday, Heyne sent me by his servant some puzzling 
passages in Persins and another writer, and wrote to desire 
that I would make a commentary upon them, and bring it 
to him on Saturday afternoon. 1 knew nothing of any 
further object, but sat down to work and wrote my essay, 
carried it to him, but found him so busily engaged with 
other persons that I could not anticipate having more than 
® momentary interview to deliver my paper. But I was at 
once informed by him that I was appointed to give four hours 
of instruction in Latin every week to the third class—he 
said he thought that was a thing I should hke. He was 
well aware of my condition and my wishes. I had fixed in 
my mind to go to him next Sunday to ask to be helped to 
an opportunity of giving private lessons, which request I 
had already made to Professor Bunsen. The work will 
give me little trouble. What salary I am to obtain I know 
not; it will not be considerable, but something at any rate, 
and a foundation stone. 


Letter to his Sister Christiana. 


[ Translation. ] Gottingen : 7th October, 1810. 


I am now in a very convenient position, residing altoge- 
ther with the son of an American merchant named Astor, 
boarded and lodged in the best manner, ... My own 
studies in Latin and Greek are necessarily somewhat inter- 
rupted in consequence, .but, on the other hand, I have occa- 
sion to improve in English, and such a mode of life is in 
more than one respect useful to me. . . . It is at the least 
a satisfaction that my teachers have chosen me for this post 
out of the whole mass of students. I continue giving my 
lessons as before in the school, because I retain thereby 
something certain in Gdttingen. God's providence will 
order all for the best, if I perform my own obligation, and 
duly exert the powers that He has given me, 


In February, 1810, little more than three months 


Ex. 18] TUTOR TO YOUNG ASTOR. 25 


after he reached Gottingen, he was recommended by 
Heyne as teacher of the German language to William 
Backhouse Astor, son of the celebrated Astor of New 
York, and thus commenced a connection which led 
to important results ; in the first instance as securing 
his independent position at the University, but chiefly 
because he and Mr. Astor became attached to each 
other. The latter took so much pleasure in the 
society of Bunsen, as to endeavour more and more to 
secure his company and guidance, wherever he wished 
to direct his way through Germany. 

It would seem, however, that during the first year, 
1810, Bunsen remained entirely at Gottingen. In 
1811, after a short visit in April to his parents at 
Corbach, he accompanied Arthur Schopenhauer (after- 
wards known by his metaphysical writings (on a tour to 
Gotha, Weimar, and Jena, during which he was some 
time in the house of the then celebrated Frau Scho- 
penhauer, the mother of his companion, who showed 
him every possible attention, although he could little 
have harmonised with her family in taste and opinions. 
The time he spent with them was important as his 
first introduction to the remarkable men of Weimar, 
who met in Madame Schopenhauer’s house, where he 
had the gratification of being presented to Gothe. 

Bunsen’s time at Gottingen was spent in constant 
and energetic mental activity, divided between the in- 
struction of Mr. Astor and his own varied pursuits, 
diversified by those social meetings among friends 
entertaining the same views of life as himself, and 
walks into the couatry with favourite associates, to 
which he ever looked back with peculiar satisfaction. 


26 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1811 


In the autumn he made an excursion with Mr. Astor 
to Dresden and Leipzig, and returned the 18th 
October to Giéttingen, where at Easter of the follow- 
ing year, 1812, he was appointed teacher of Hebrew 
in the highest form of the school, and for Greek in 
the next form,—a distinction which in his letters he 
mentions rejoicingly. The habit formed under the 
auspices of his judicious father of rising in the morn- 
ing long before the hour when even the most indus- 
trious began their day’s labour, stood him in good 
stead. During his years at school, his father was the 
person who always woke him at three o’clock in the 
morning, and at the University he never failed to se- 
cure for himself the undisturbed morning hours. He 
had through life the happy faculty of sleeping at 
will for minutes whenever fatigued in body or mind, 
after which he became fresh again to go on for hours. 

His ‘ Essay on the Athenian Law of Inheritance,’ 
the prize for which was adjudged to him in Novem- 
ber 1812, is said to take a standard position in the 
study of Athenian jurisprudence. The premium re- 
ceived on this occasion was twenty-five gold ducats ; 
and so much attention was attracted by this effort of 
the young student that three months later (12th 
February, 1818), the University of Jena bestowed 
upon him the unsolicited distinction of a diploma as 
Doctor of Philosophy. The essay exists to this hour 
only in the original Latin; for although, from pas- 
sages in his letters in the years 1817 and 1818, he 
would seem to have contemplated publishing it in 
an enlarged and more complete form in German, this 
intention was never fulfilled. 


Et. 21] LETTER TO HIS PARENTS. 27 


Bunsen to his Parents. 
[ Translation. ] Gottingen: 1st January, 1813. 


All blessing be upon my dear parents in the new year! 
Neither in person nor in the form of a letter could [ accom- 
plish appearing before you at the beginning of this year, 
but at least from my room I pour forth my greeting. 
Never did [ commence a new year with more emotion than 
now! When in the night of the last first of January, I 
sat solitary before my desk and looked over the series of 
wishes and of questions which in the same midnight hour 
two years ago | had written down, gazing with joy and 
hope into the future; and when I then contemplated the 
images of my past life, and considered how the Almighty 
has blessed me from earliest days in such kind parents, and 
otherwise so variously, and later, in a land of strangers and 
in a doubtful position, had cleared up my dark anticipations 
and fulfilled my timid wishes ; and when at last, turning to 
the present, I beheld a sufficient and satisfactory response 
to my yearnings after the future, in the guidance of my 
life, by ways so unexpected, to a point where I now tread 
those fields of knowledge which I had then loved rather 
than seen,—in the midst of friendship and happiness fully 
as great as I had ventured to desire, heightened by the re- 
membrance of those who are dear to me ;—then did sadness 
steal over me, and a melancholy doubt seize on my spirit, 
lest I should have enjoyed and possessed too much of good 
for the share of a mortal, and that some hard blow might 
tear away a portion of the blessings granted, to remind me 
of the transitory nature of all that is earthly. And yet 
has the year now past proved one of the most cheerful and 
fortunate in my life. Even the loss of Heyne reminds me 
of the abundant kindness he showed me to the very last. 
You will therefore feel how solemn was the consciousness 
with which I met its last hour. 

The whole Christntas time had been very precious, in 
allowing me one week in which to live entirely to myself 


28 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


and the Christmas festival brought a store of bright recol- 
lections from earliest childhood, I kept the holy eve with 
Iudwig Abeken, of Osnabriick, whom I have known since 
last autumn, and who is bound to me like a brother: with 
him, and a few others who are dear to me, I read the 
beginning of the Gospel of Luke and other portions of the 
Bible, which I have often before me, besides Plato and other 
books of study in Greek. The next morning I decked out 
my room with branches of fir and tapers, and a pianoforte, 
which I had borrowed for the festival time, as my friend 
plays it remarkably well. The following evening we met 
at supper in a somewhat larger party, but only of friends 
and habitual associates, and did not separate till after mid- 
night. Through the days between Christmas and the New 
Year study was unremitting, but on New Year’s eve I 
finished the large and important Greek book with which I 
had been busied. At ten o’clock I went with Becker of 
Gotha (son of a well-known author who is now imprisoned 
on that account by the French at Magdeburg), with Ulrich 
of Jena, and Susemiehl of Kiel (both students of medicine), 
and also with my old friend and countryman Wolrad 
Schumacher, to the room of my Osnabriick friend for a social 
meeting. Thus we were a company from all parts of our 
fatherland, and composed of all faculties : three philologers, 
Abeken and myself, each reckoned as half a theologian, one 
student of divinity, two of medicine, and one of law. Out- 
side, the entire long street shone with light and reverberated 
with music, vocal and instrumental. Then the clock struck 
twelve, all doors and windows burst open, and the street was 
alive with human heads and the voice of congratulation. We 
however, in deep silence, touched glasses to honour the ex- 
piring year, and severally embraced without the power of 
uttering a word, till after a pause we joined in the fine song 
of Voss: ‘The year’s last hour tolls forth with deep’ning 
chime a solemn sound.’ Then did the gloom of the im- 
minent parting and the probability that for the last time on 


rt. 21) ’ LETTER TO HIS PARENTS. 29 


earth I now looked upon many of those around me so possess 
my mind, that I could not refrain from tears, and by the 
time they came to the last verse I was wholly overcome, 
which seldom happens to me. Towards one o'clock we again 
became cheerful, and with singing and sound of guitar we 
moved homewards to my dwelling, where Schumacher re- 
mained with me, I began the work of the new year with 
that which had most occupied me in the last. Next morning 
I received the cordial salutations of my three favourite 
pupils. : 

At Easter, when I come to you, I shall beg for the ring 
which you presented to me four yearsago.* As to America, 
pray be not anxious; thither I shall not go as long as a 
Germany yet exists. 


An account may here find its place, which Ludwig 
Abeken, the friend mentioned with such endearing 
terms in the foregoing letter, gave of Bunsen at this 
time in a letter to a brother, dated the 16th Novem- 
ber, 1812, which has already been printed elsewhere. 
After details of utter depression of spirits, consequent 
upon a morbid state of body (in fact, as was known 
later, of an incipient tumour in the head, which 
caused, alas! not many years after, the premature 
death of this yifted youth), Abeken continues as 
follows :— 

[Translation. ] 


.... I feel irresistibly drawn to that admirable being: 
he met me with all the more kindness and tender con- 
sideration as Ulrich had informed him of my state of 
melancholy ; and I left the house touched and comforted. 


* The ring in question was his father’s betrothal ring, given to Bun- 
sen on the solemn occasio§, of departing to the University, and which 
he evidently declined to take possession of until he should have ‘ earned 
his spurs.’ 


30 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


On Sunday afternoon, they both came to fetch me for a walk 
on the Plesse,—and ever did it become clearer to me what a 
treasure I have found in my new acquaintance; in every 
subject of conversation was revealed the depth and polish of 
his mental cultivation. The ruins of the Plesse roused my 
mind to new pleasures ; in these as in Paulinzelle, trees rise 
out of the fallen building, just as in myself also ttew life had 
sprung up, and I could now turn a free and cheerful glance 
upon the world. On the way back, Bunsen joined me apart 
from the others, and related much of Heyne, to whom he has 
been considerably indebted for hisadvancement. We talked 
of Sophocles, of Plato, of Johannes Miller, of Herder. He 
told me what I might expect here in the way of philosophy, 
and what an enjoyment he had procured himself in the 
establishment of a philosophical society, which he invited 
me to join. I answered that I believed myself unequal 
to the requirements of the society, but he argued away 
my doubts, and I heartily thanked him for the offer. It 
was so unusual, that a man whom I could love and honour 
should advance to meet me! Hitherto, whenever I had 
found such, it was I who had to make the way ; and now did 
one of a standing far above mine, whom from the first 
moment I had loved and honoured, approach me closely : 
and this consciousness did my heart good. We resumed our 
conversation on the Antigone. Bunsen asked me with an 
indescribable look, a beam of kindness and benevolence, 
whether we should not be brothers? What a blessed mo- 
ment was that! J had not known before what it was to 
have a friend, and now my heart expanded. I could speak 
little, but the whole gloomy past vanished from my sight, 
and I held fast the happy present. I spent the evening at 
Ulrich’s, where Bunsen also was. After supper he read 
passages out of the New Testament,—that of the man who 
built his house on the rock, that of the lilies of the field, 
and the last chapter of John. Never had I felt so happy; 
my life, and what I am capable of becoming, seemed to clear 
up before me. The contemplation of a friend, so far 


Jer. 21] LETTER TO AGRICOLA. 31 


advanced beyond any other of those devoted to study in 
Gottingen, far from discouraging, inspires me with courage 
and power to urge my way forward, and strive to become 
worthy of him. . . . As suffering had left me no quiet, 
so joy allowed not of my becoming composed. My entire 
being is changed ; my friends call me in sport the New- 
born, and they are right: what I never thought to attain, 
the unclouded enjoyment of the present, and the power of 
holding fast and employing the moment, 1s granted to me 
in the highest degree. Sunday afternoon at 2+o’cluck I 
went with Becker to the lecture-hall, where Mitscherlich, 
in the presence of the assembled University, made a Latin 
address, at the close of which he announced the names of 
those to whom prizes had been adjudged. Imagine my 
delight when he finished with the words :—Auctor victricis 
commentationis est Carolus Christianus Bunsen. 1 rushed off 
to Bunsen, who assured me that the joy of his friends over 
his good fortune was more valuable to him than the prize 
itself. . . . 


The following letter breathes the same exalted and 
enthusiastic sentiments :— 


Bunsen to Agricola. 


(Translation. ] Gottingen : 1812. 


C. Bunsen on the blessed Christmas Day 
Hails his frend Agricola! 
Blessing and salvation in the New Year! 


.... When I think what an amount of all that is good 
and precious has flowed out to meet me in the course of 
the last year, and feel the joy of life within my heart, and 
courage by the activity of love to do good among my 
brethren—then this room becomes too narrow for me, the 
sky before me pours forth radiance, and with every gush 
my fulness of joy grows warmer, fuller, and more in- 
tense ! 

And then does the consciousness seize me of the all- 


32 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


ruling Nemesis, which dwells in the bottom of man’s heart, 
and recals him from exultation to sobriety of joy in life,’ 
with more or less sternness, compelling his return to self- 
possession, when happiness, even though fairly won and 
lawfully enjoyed, would have floated him in its exuberance 
over the bounds of humanity. 

It ig not so difficult to endure misfortunes but good 
fortune is a heavy burden, and to bear it as one ought is a 
difficult art to be learnt. This idea floated before me indis- 
tinctly in earliest childhood, in the brightest moments of 
existence ; and more clearly in overlooking the history of 
the revolutions in things human—where the contemplative 
spirit may discern an influence above thewhirlpool of events, 
by which all human purpose, when it has once transgressed 
its limits and ventured beyond its natural boundaries, is 
consigned inevitably to penal retribution. In the study of 
antiquity, this thought has pointed my way likea lightning 
flash ; and never may it be lost to my consciousness ! 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. | Gottingen: 13th July, 1813. 


. . . . Poor and lonely did I arrive in this place. Heyne 
received me, guided me, bore with me, encouraged me, 
showed me in himself the example of a high and noble en- 
ergy and indefatigable activity in a calling which was not 
that to which his merit entitled him. He might have su- 
perintended and administered and maintained an entire 
kingdom without more effort and with yet greater efficiency 
than the University for which he lived: he was too great 
for a mere philologer, and in general for a professor of mere 
learning in the age into which he was cast, and he was more 
distinguished in every other way than in this. Consider 
what it was to have guided the studies, influenced the men- 
tal cultivation of two generations, during half a century !— 
and, what is more, to have estimated and rated at its just 
value a far higher condition of intellectual development, 


Er. 21] LETTER TO AGRICOLA. 33 


with a measure of insight and devotedness just the reverse 
of what was attributed to him by the narrowness of 
opinion, founded only on the casual and insignificant 
utterances of his mind. And what has he established or 
founded at the cost of this exertion of faculties ? 

Learning annihilates itself, and the most perfect is the 
first submerged; for the next age scales with ease the 
height which cost the preceding the full vigour of life. 
Yet, two things remain of him, and will not perish—the 
one, the tribute left by his free spirit to the finest pro- 
ductions of the human mind, and what he felt, thought, 
and has immortalized in many men of excellence gone be- 
fore. Read his explanations of Tischbein’s engravings from 
Homer, his last preface to Virgil, and especially his oration 
on the death of Miiller, and you will understand what I 
mean. I speak not of his political instinct, made evident 
in his survey of the public and private life of the ancients. 
The other memorial, which will subsist of him yet more 
warm in hfe than the first, is the remembrance of his 
generosity, to which numbers owe a deep obligation, and 
which in me at least has left traces not to be effaced. 

Should 1 ever be able to effect anything not unworthy of 
him at least in scope and intention, to his manes shall it be 
in gratitude consecrated. 


The 7th April of this same year 1813 is marked as 
the date of his setting out on a journey with Mr. 
Astor by Frankfort and Wiirzburg to Vienna, from 
whence they went on to Milan and the lakes of the 
north of Italy, receiving intelligence of the great 
events by which the French armies were driven out 
of Germany, like indistinct echoes from a distance 
listened for with intense interest. 


‘ 
VOL. I. D 


34 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


Letter to Wolrad Schumacher. 


[ Translation. ] Vienna: 14th May, 1818. 


Although I have been for more than a month almost 
every day further and further removed from you, it is as if 
I had in fact come nearer; for no differencesof calling, no 
separate occupation, now keeps us asunder, and the former 
immediate contact of our souls, in which we lived only for 
our friendship and were one in will and deed, I feel with all 
its strength vibrating through my heart’s longings. If the 
course of life, after once drawing us together, has thus again 
parted us, let us nevertheless, in the innermost of our being, 
remain united! ... 


Bunsen to Ernst Schulze. 
[ Translation. | Munich: Ist July, 1813. 


. . . [have found more in Munich than I had ventured 
to expect: by Jacobi I have been received with uncommon 
friendliness ; he has interested himself in a truly paternal 
manner in me and my concerns, which was the more grati- 
fying, as I had been informed from the first that he was 
often found, even by his friends, cold and distant, under 
the irritation produced in his sensitive nature by recent 
events. In his house and through his introduction, I have 
seen and made the acquaintance of many remarkable men. 
... But I have not thereby been confined to one set. 
Schelling before all must be mentioned as having received 
me well, after his fashion, giving me frequent occasions of 
becoming acquainted with his philosophical views and judg- 
ments, in his own original and peculiar manner. His mode 
of disputation is rough and angular; his peremptoriness 
and his paradoxes terrible. Once he undertook to explain 
animal magnetism, and for this purpose to give an idea of 
Time, from which resulted that all is present and in ex- 
istence—the Present, as existing in the actual moment: 


fET. 21] LETTER TO ERNST SCHULZE. 35 


the Future, as existing in a future moment. When I de- 
manded the proof, he referred me to the word 7s, which 
apples to existence, in the sentence that‘ this 2 future.’ 
Seckendorf, who was present (with him I have become 
closely acquainted, to my great satisfaction), attempted to 
draw attention to the confounding the subject we (7.e. him 
who pronountes that sentence) with the objective: or, 
rather, to point out a simple grammatical misunderstand- 
ing—in short, declarcd the position impossible. ‘ Well,’ 
replied Schelling drily, ‘you have not understood me.’ 
Two Professors (his worshippers), who were present, had 
meanwhile endeavoured by their exclamations, ‘ Only ob- 
serve, all zs, all exists’ (to which the wife of Schelling, a 
clever woman, assented), to help me into conviction: and 
a vehement beating the air—for arguing and holding fast 
by any firm point were out of the question—would have 
arisen, if I had not contrived to escape by giving a playful 
turn to the conversation. I am perfectly aware that 
Schelling cowld have expressed and carried through his 
real opinion far better, 2. ¢. rationally. I tell the anecdote 
merely to give an idea of his manner in conversation. But 
the result of my intercourse with him has been an unlimited 
respect for his intellectual powers and for what he has done 
towards rationalising the natural sciences: and I reckon 
greatly upon him for the clearing up of several points, for 
the most part not of a speculative nature, which are ever 
pursuing one another in my head with contentions for and 
agamst. 

I converse almost daily with Thiersch: he is animated, 
active, dexterous, and clever in a high degree, at the same 
time communicative and extremely obliging—most charm- 
ing when in good humour. He lives here in most desir- 
able conditions, and with prospects still better; and will, 
without doubt, hold the first place within his especial field 
of action. But upon one point we cannot agree, and that 

D 2 


36 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


is no less than the fundamental principle of philology. We 
havo already given up the attempt to convert each other: 
I at least have not swerved a hair’s breadth from the point 
of view which I have held these two years, and I intend 
rather to apply what I mean, than attempt to prove it. At 
the suggestion of Thiersch, I have taken part in the in- 
struction in the Persian language, which the and a few 
others receive from Scherer. But my principal occupation 
is the study of criminal law, and the collecting of generally 
useful knowledge, to me as unknown and foreign as to my 
friend, and which there is here every encouragement to 
obtain. We intend, for instance, to make a second excur- 
sion to Landshut with Wiebeking and Reichenbach, whoso 
telescope is considered to be better than Herschel’s. In 
reading law we are assisted by Feuerbach himself, who has 
granted to me and my researches a most encouraging re- 
ception. 

Thus does the morning pass, mostly in work, which we 
occasionally interrupt by resorting to the collection of ob- 
jects of art to behold the Apollo, or a painting of Guido’s, 
or the like, or by making visits (which, I am glad to say, 
here are not stiff but generally agreeable), or by the sight 
of military exercises. In the afternoon various sights are 
visited, and the evening is spent in society or in the 
theatre. At the end of the day I let the present and the 
future contend with remembrance, until all are blended by 
the soothing power of dreams, and variously brought again 
before the soul. But the ‘hour of prime’ again belongs 
rigorously to the present and future. Thus does life glide 
easily along, and my position becomes daily more agreeable 
and valuable to me. 


A passage in the journal of Ernst Schulze, the poet, 
records and describes members of the band of intimate 
friends, who ministered so effectually to each other 
at Gottingen, and who all admired him ag their orna- 


Et. 21] LETTER TO SCHULZE. 37 


ment.* It is dated 9th May, 1815, but the intimacy 
of the writer with Bunsen was of earlier date; and 
many other parts of Schulze’s MS. contain notices of 
meetings with his friend. 

On recommencing his journal, after an interruption 
of nearly ong year and a quarter, of which time about 
half was spent in active service during the campaign 
against the French in 1818, E. Schulze describes his 
state of melancholy on his return to Géttingen to- 
wards the end of that year, and then writes as 
follows :—‘ My isolation led me back to my friends. 
By the untiring efforts of Bunsen our whole circle, 
consisting of Lachmann, Liicke, Reck, Bunsen, and 
myself, and further widened by the addition of the ad- 
mirable Brandis,—also in intimacy less close, by that 
of Brandis’s brother, of Jacobi, Klenze, and Ulrich— 
was brought together again. A spirit of zealous but 
friendly emulation arose amongst us; and onacertain 
cheerful evening, at my suggestion, we made a vow, 
each to each other and to all, that we would effect 
something great in our lives. It was a noble circle, 
in which an oppressed heart could expand and breathe 
again,—Bunsen, the man of kingly and all-ruling 
spirit, considering all branches of knowledge, all forms 
of mental exertion, but as means to accomplish a 

* In a letter from Bunsen of 1841, he thus mentions Schulze:—‘ He 
was one of my dearest friends, after whom I named my son Ernest. 
Of a circle of nine who lived together at Gottingen in the momentous 
years from 1809-1814, he was the first who left this earth; his affec- 
tion towards those left behind, you will see expressed in his poem 
‘Cecilia.’ There never was a nobler mind; he was 4 poet by nature, 


of chivalrous patriotism, despite bf bodily debility: of immense learn- 
ing, and as a friend, faithful and affectionate.’ 


38 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


single great object,—who, open at all times to every 
sort of impression, could with indescribable power 
appropriate and make his own all that seemed in 
nature most opposite,—who, with the keenest, and at 
times appalling clearness of intellectual perception, 
united a depth of sympathising feeling, and who, 
with an energy, ceaselessly diverted into a multitude 
of channels, never lost sight of his object ;—Brandis, 
whose cheerful faithful heart beamed from his counte- 
nance, and in whom much learning and keen intelli- 
gence had not lessened the power of pleasing, and 
being pleased ;—Lachmann, fine-grained, critical, 
satirical, and witty, but with the vague longings of 
a heart that knew not its will or its way, of irritable 
fibre, and almost feverish temperament ;—Liicke, in 
all the radiance of prosperous love and of religious 
enthusiasm, upright, firm, earnestly endeavouring 
after a sphere of active usefulness, yet deeply 
meditative, and inclined to mysticism :—lastly, the 
unimpassioned Reck, ever taking care of his friends, 
ever provided with good advice for every one, having 
a clear and intelligent but always politic view of life, 
and making amends to his associates by zeal and 
faithful attachment for his want of susceptibility of 
the beautiful, and for the absence of polish and 
refinement. The bond which united us was at this 
time riveted for ever, and I hope that our country 
will experience for good the effects of our associ- 
ation.’ 

This passage is in the original as eloquently ex- 
pressed as it is fervidly conceived; and now, after the 
lapse of nearly half a century, it revives mournful 


fET, 21) DEATH OF SCHULZE. BH) 


reflections on the short and joyless career of the 
writer. He who records the troth-plighting of this 
brilliant group of friends was the first to depart from 
a life, of which the most desirable distinction was that 
of having been beloved, admired, and regretted by all 
within his sphere of influence, in a degree hard to be 
comprehended by those, whose only further means 
of judging of him are derived from the biographical 
memoir compiled by Markgraff. He therein appears 
‘driven on the waves of this troublesome world,’ 
without rudder or compass, as having, even in such 
early youth, lost the freshness and elasticity of the 
moral fibre, so that a morbid longing after excitement, 
in order to escape self-consciousness, destroyed all 
capability of joy, or satisfaction in existence: and he 
died heart-broken, from having wilfully built on the 
sand. Poems of his were published, and are still 
much read, all showing poetic powers of a high order 
employed on insignificant subjects. His joining the 
Volunteers in the campaign of the year 1813 may be 
here mentioned on account of an anecdote proving 
the attachment of Bunsen, who, when he found that 
Schulze was not to be prevailed upon to desist from 
his purpose of risking with a weak constitution the 
hardships of military service, himself went to Hanover 
to make such representations to the officers who 
collected and commanded the Volunteers, as might 
induce them to assign to Schulze a position in the 
staff or otherwise among those least likely to be 
called into action. Bunsen on this occasion first saw 
and made his application to Augustus Kestner, him- 
self one of the Volunteers, and appointed by General 


40 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1813 


Beaulieu to receive and register applicants. The 
request was, in fact, attended to, for Schulze had his 
wish of joining the’ ranks of the defenders of his 
country, and yet returned unscathed from the 
campaign. Lachmann attained the distinction an- 
ticipated for him, among critical and. philological 
writers, being reckoned among the first in rank, as 
well as among the founders of the new school of 
criticism. His ‘ Edition of the New Testament’ is 
‘now regarded as the basis of the purest text of the 
Gospels. He therefore succeeded thoroughly in ful- 
filling the engagement entered into by the friends, 
though his course was cut short by sharp sufferings 
at a comparatively early date. Liicke was not called 
away from active and happy usefulness, till after he 
had accomplished his literary purpose in a critical 
edition of the Gospel of St. John, attaiming high 
estimation as a theological teacher and writer. Dr. 
Carl Reck and Prof. Ch. Aug. Brandis were the 
last survivors of that distinguished group: and the 
latter is to be congratulated as having also fulfilled 
the design of his life’s labour, in completing a ‘ His- 
tory of Greek Philosophy.’ Extracts from Bunsen’s 
letters will mark the love and the high estimation, in 
which he held his peculiarly valued friend Brandis 
from the first years of University fellowship to the 
last hours of life; and it would be neglecting one of 
the near interests of Bunsen’s heart not to mark that 
sentiments analogous to those which he entertained 
have been the willing tribute paid by all minds privi- 
leged to approach with any nearness to Brandis, whose 
portrait in the passage quoted from Ernst Schulze will 


ZET. 21] BRAN DIS—RECK—HEY—AGRICOLA. 41 


still be found accurate in resemblance. Brandis, 
though deprived by death of the object of his deepest 
affection, was happy in the possession of what all 
nations and ages have proclaimed the best of earth’s 
treasures,—a family of sons, well endowed in body 
and mind,ehigh in merit and in honour. Reck, after 
being a guide and oracle to his younger companions 
at the University, lingered on at Gottingen until 
every living interest in the place had died away or 
been withdrawn elsewhere : his distinguished faculties 
unemployed, except in writing occasional pamphlets, 
and his originally kind disposition soured, perhaps by 
comparing his own lot of insignificance with the dis- 
tinction attained by his early associates. His letters 
of unsparing comment, and advice, and clear-sighted 
calculation of the future, were always held in great 
account by Bunsen, gladly received and carefully 
preserved. Another of the intimate friends of Bun- 
sen was Wilhelm Hey, beloved and honoured by the 
whole circle, but not enumerated in the preceding list 
because he had sooner quitted the University than the 
rest. His was a refined and poetical spirit, although 
he possessed mathematical genius and power of 
highest rank; and his beneficent life as a teacher 
and an example of the purest Christianity closed in 
1855, in the parish of Ichtershausen, near Gotha. 
Agricola died a worthy President of the Consistory 
at Gotha; he and Becker were sons-in-law to Fried- 
rich Perthes, whose biography (the work of his son 
Clement, Professor at the University cf Bonn) is a 
worthy monument of a man, not merely good in him- 
self, and a promoter of good, but great in influence 


42 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1814 


and efficiency, whose existence has in a manner con- 
secrated the places of his habitation on earth, and 
whose spirit, in moral power, is yet felt to be living 
among his descendants. The letters received from 
Friedrich Perthes in Rome were among the most 
welcome to Bunsen, from his wide and intelligent 
grasp of fact and reality, whether in the moral, intel- 
lectual, or political conditions of society, as well as 
from the utterance of the cordial sympathy of the 
honoured writer. Becker was highly valued at Gotha 
as a publisher, and called by his fellow-citizens to 
posts of honour and trust, lastly to the German 
Parliament at Frankfort in 1848. He died in 1865. 
Hey’s ‘ Poetical Fables for Children,’ illustrated by 
Otto Speckter, ensure to his name the gratitude of 
posterity, as well as of his contemporaries. But, as 
is often the case with first-rate characters, the man 
was better still than his works.* 


Bunsen to Becker. 
[Translation. | Gottingen: 13th May, 1814. 


. . . What seasont could be better suited for the full and 
Joyous consciousness of one’s own happiness, or for the 
cheerful celebration of festivals of love and friendship, than 
the present? And also, when was a louder summons 


* In the days that preceded his dissolution Hey was for ever heard 
pouring forth his soul in beautiful verse, with sufficient distinctness of 
enunciation to be taken down in pencil by some of those that surroun- 
ded his bedside. ‘Precious Elijah—songs like unto those of the dying 
swan!’ exclaims Bunsen in a letter of November, 1856, ‘an instance of 
mortal man being carried to Heaven alive, 7. ¢. a spirit returning to the 
Father.’ 

+ Congratulation to Becker upon a joyful event in his family. 


ZET. 22] LETTER TO BECKER. 43 


heard to joint efforts in the great work to which we look 
forward, for the awakening of the great day, whose faint- 
est dawn already refreshes our innermost life, and gilds our 
holiest moments of joy ? 

Each of these sentiments has no doubt long possessed 
you, heart and soul. You have extended to me the right 
hand of fellowship in the first and last duty of man, to 
serve his fellow-creatures, even when I appeared to deviate 
from the line of our common aim. Nothing but the inner. 
most conviction that on my return I should find myself 
more vigorous, more steady for the appointed task, could 
have excited me just in this festival-time of our nation to 
act unhesitatingly upon a resolution, long cherished, and 
acknowledged to be the right one. . . . Through the day 
each of us friends is busied in his own peculiar ficld of 
occupation, our paths remaining separate; but the leisure 
of evening brings us together to converse upon what our 
usefulness for the nation may be, and how to start upon it 
worthily and manfully. We are resolved to let no oppor- 
tunity pass of labouring in the good cause in any way in 
which we shall be conscious of strength and calling. This 
spirit in us has been ‘yet more roused by the entrance of a 
fourth into a circle, a young Hast-Frieslander, Mitscherlich, 
—who having studied principally Oriental literature at 
Heidelberg and at Paris, is preparing here for a long and 
important journey to those regions. The similarity of his 
convictions and aims soon brought him into nearer inti- 
macy with us; and as his uprightness and candour of mind 
could not but open our hearts towards him, so did his 
clearness of understanding and strength of will command 
our esteem, as well as enliven and strengthen our own 
purposes. * 

On these points we are, I think, agreed, viz.:—That now 
or never Germany ought to obtain a strery Constitution, 

‘ 


* Mitscherlich’s purpose in life underwent achange. He distinguished 
himself greatly as Professor of Chemistry at the University of Berlin. 


44, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1814 


sheltered from despotism: That every one should be not 
merely permitted, but bound to make known, openly and 
fearlessly, the opinions which he holds conjointly with 
many worthy and rational men: That in no European 
country more than among us has a political instinct for the 
common weal been so long wanting, and is still wanting so 
far as action goes: That many have bent their recks under 
a disgraceful servitude, and also oppressed the free spirit in 
others : That no need is so pressing as to do for Peace what 
has been done for War. Most ofall are we bound to serve the 
public, who have not been allowed to raise an arm in battle 
and upon whom, consequently, the fatherland has double 
claims. 


A call from without soon made itself heard. 

The remaining portion of this letter, and several 
more letters to the same friend, record the first occa- 
sion of Bunsen’s writing for the Press, to remonstrate 
against threatened, and in part enforced alterations 
in the administration of his native Principality of 
Waldeck, by which the time-honoured remains of 
genuine Teutonic self-government would have been 
lost for ever under a modern Napoleonistic centrali- 
sation. Whilst he was engaged in writing, a general 
protest from persons of weight in the small State was 
laid before the great Minister Baron Stein, then at the 
height of his power, and through his advocacy with 
the Allied Powers the Edict, though already in pro- 
gress of execution, was revoked. For this reason 
Bunsen’s pamphlet, carefully worked out and eluci- 
dated by references and documents, needed not to be 
published. Without any regret but with a quiet 
satisfaction at having fulfilled a public duty he laid 
aside this his first political Essay. 


Er. 23) LETTER TO BRANDIS. 45 


Mr. Astor, having been summoned to America by his 
father, left Gottingen in August 1814, under a promise 
which he faithfully kept, even exceeding it in punctu- 
ality, to return to Europe within two years. Here- 
upon Bunsen had started also, as we have seen, in the 
company ef his friend Brandis, with Holland for his 
final object, there to visit his sister Christiana. ‘I 
cannot express,’ are his words, in a letter of 18th 
September, ‘ how full my heart is in the thought of 
at last seeing you. Surely in sight of the haven, 
Providence will not suffer me to be shipwrecked! But 
you must anticipate my arrival in a quiet spirit, and 
not form such an image of me in your fancy as would 
make me shy of presenting myself in person. May 
the Almighty keep and preserve you!’ 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
[ Translation. ] Rotterdam : lst November, 1814. 


.. . After celebrating the Festival of Victory at Cologne 
(the anniversary of the battle of Leipzig, Oct. 18) I has- 
tened on, and found indeed my own sister in heart and 
mind. A few days filled up the long chasm of eight years’ 
separation. She has given way to my entreaties to accom- 
pany me back to our own fatherland. I shall not be at 
Gottingen before December 1. 


The meeting which thus took place proved in its 
consequences an important epoch in the life of Bunsen, 
not only from riveting the bond which had connected 
him from early childhood with his sister, but from the 
deep impression which he received of religious life in 
Holland. He had imbibed the reality of Christianity 
from the devout habits of his earliest home, from the 


46 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1814 


tenor of his father’s conversation, and from his un- 
flinching faith and courage; but since he had been 
among men, no mind had been capable of acting upon 
him in such a manner as to’ develop and expand the 
religion of childhood, which, on the contrary, had 
to struggle for self-preservation in an atmosphere of 
indifference and forgetfulness. He had received his 
mother’s Bible as a farewell gift on departing for the 
University, and was one of asmall number of students 
who had not ceased to make use of such a book. In 
Holland he came into immediate contact with his 
sister’s strongly defined opinions and into the spiri- 
tual atmosphere of men and women of commanding 
intelligence, for whom Christianity was an all-per- 
vading element and guide of sentiment and conduct. 
‘Their religion not a restless doubt, still less a com- 
posed cant, but a great heaven-high Unquestionability, 
encompassing, interpenetrating, the whole of life :—it 
testified incessantly and indisputably to every heart, 
that this earthly life, with its riches and possessions 
and good and evil hap, is not intrinsically a reality at 
all, but a shadow of realities, eternal, infinite; that 
this time-world plays and flickers in the grand still 
mirror of eternity; and man’s little life has duties 
alone that are great’ (Carlyle, Past and Present, p. 90). 

Bunsen ever retained a grateful recollection of the 
short time spent in Holland and of the kindness with 
which he was received there, and would dweil with 
pleasure on the respect inspired by the serious, un- 
pretending manner of carrying out the weightier 
matters of the law, ‘judgment, mercy, and faith,’ con- 
spicuous in Dutch society. From Rotterdam he made 
a tour to Leyden, Amsterdam, and the Hague. 


JET. 23] LETTER TO HIS SISTER. 47 


In a letter from Leyden, November 27th, 1814, he 
suggests diplomatically that his sister may complete 
her preparations for departure as well or better in his 
absence, and assures her of his arrival within the week, 
if she shall announce being ready to accompany him 
to Sardane or Amsterdam, as she may decide upon 
one or the other as the point from whence to make 
their excursions together ; after which they will direct 
their way to Corbach. But on the day for which he 
had announced himself, his sister received a half sheet 
of paper, half-burnt in haste and excitement, contain- 
ing the words— 

[Translation. | 3rd December, 1814. 
(Birthday of my friend Ludwig Abeken.) 

Triumph! triumph! dearest sister, could I but run and 
show you the spoils of this day! but I can only write, and 
that very shortly. Only think! to-day was an auction of 
Oriental MS., among which was one, of which perhaps only 
eight or nine exist in Kurope—worth at least 300 thalers. 
I went without any hope of obtaining it, and I have pur- 
chased it for twelve florins! Besides this, I have bought 
eight others, which I could at once sell in Germany for 100 
florins. These shall cover the expense of our journey, but 
the first I keep. Oh! Iam so glad!* Your 

CHRISTIAN. 


Maria Christiana Bunsen, the elder half-sister, 
who exercised much influence over Bunsen’s younger 
years, and remained during the whole of her life the 
object of a respect and affection on his part rather 
filial than fraternal, was the first-born of her father’s 


* The MS. so peculiarly Sexulted over was of the Persian poet 
Firdusi: this purpose of selling any of these acquisitions was never 
executed. 


48 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. | [1814 


first marriage, and entered, on July 15, 1772, on a . 
life which proved a nearly uninterrupted course of 
severe trial. Her power of quick observation and 
strong feeling was early exercised by sharing and 
witnessing the energetic struggles and patient en- 
durance of her parents during the first ten years of 
her life. Calamity seemed to reach its height in the 
death of her mother and the twin infants. Her con- 
sequent removal, however, to dwell under the care of 
her Aunt Helene Stricker (married and settled at 
Amsterdam) was fortunate in its effect on the develop- 
ment of her character and the formation of her prin- 
ciples and habits of life; for the aunt was cast in a 
similar mould to her brother Henrich Bunsen, and 
united the same vigour of mind and character to the 
same clear-sightedness and self-devotedness. But her 
wholesome influence and judicious management ended 
too soon for the full benefit of her niece; for a short 
and violent disorder carried her off in the year 1787, 
when Christiana, barely fifteen years of age, had 
nearly been driven to follow her only proctectress to . 
the grave, by the combined effects of vehement grief 
and of unmeasured blood-letting. Christiana was laid 
low for a time, and blighted for the whole of life, 
never having known aught before but the health and 
strength which her tall and well-formed figure and 
clear complexion seemed to indicate; and never 
throughout her lengthened existence did her nerves 
recover a healthy tone. The widowed uncle acted the 
part of a charitable relative in retaining the two 
sisters under his roof until the elder found a home for 
herself, and the younger could be received by her 


Er. 23] CHRISTIANA BUNSEN. | 49 


father at Corbach, after his second marriage. In the 
note-book of Henrich Christian is the statement that 
his brother-in-law had received into his family, and 
caused to be instructed in Christianity, his two 
daughters, Maria Christiana and Helene Friderica, 
with the addation, ‘May God bless him and his only 
child for this!’ The pressure of such unavoidable pro- 
tection was not, however, lightened by a personal re- 
lation of affection as in the case of the deceased aunt; 
and it may be easily conceived how bitter to the high 
spirit and unsubmissive nature of Christiana was the 
necessity of waiting until she could attain a position 
in which her maintenance would depend upon her own 
efforts. She entered upon the arduous duties of com- 
panion and sick-nurse to an aged invalid lady. This 
difficult relation turned out satisfactorily, inasmuch 
as she was highly approved of, and returned by sincere 
attachment the kindness of her protectress, who be- 
queathed to her an independent provision after a long 
period of service, in which her remains of natural 
health and strength were effectually dissipated by 
fatigue and nearly total seclusion from fresh air, in 
sharing the room inhabited by her rheumatic patient 
by night as well as by day, where every aperture, even 
to the very key-hole, was carefully closed up against 
the possible entrance of air. The date of the old lady’s 
death, after which Christiana entered upon a period 
of unshackled activity, has not been ascertained ; but 
the beginning of this laborious imprisonment must 
have occurred between the year 1787, when her aunt 
died, and 1789, when her‘father left Holland and the 
army, and settled in his native town, therefore when 
VOL. I. : E 


50 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1814 


Christiana was between fifteen and seventeen; to 
which period is also to be assigned the short bright 
vision of the poetry of life, which came across her 
track but to vanish. Her acquaintance with a young | 
officer of good family, named Faber, can have been 
but of very short duration, but it wase sufficient to 
‘originate in him a preference so exclusive, and an 
attachment so decided, as to last for life. On occa- 
sion of his being under military orders to remove 
elsewhere, he wrote to express the sentiments which 
had been no secret to her, and entreat her to write to 
him and keep him informed of her place of abode, 
against the time when he might hope to return in 
circumstances of fortune such as would enable him to 
marry: an expectation not vague and unfounded, as 
his parents were wealthy. This proposal Christiana 
with trepidation showed to her father, who had a 
paternal interest in Faber, from his having been in a 
manner consigned to his care by relations, and who on 
that account considered his honour concerned in not 
allowing of any engagement between the young officer 
and his portionless daughter, whom he accordingly 
ordered to refrain entirely from answering that letter, 
or carrying on in any way any sort of correspondence 
with the writer. The harsh command was implicitly 
obeyed. It was not difficult to conceal the destina- 
tion of Christiana, and the enquiries instituted by 
Faber, after her father had left Holland, failed to elicit 
the name of her place of abode. The regiment to which 
he belonged was ordered off on distant service, as 
forming a portion of the French army (Holland being 
then under the compulsory direction of France); and 


Er. 23] CHRISTIANA BUNSEN. 51 


two-and-twenty years elapsed before Faber made the 
discovery that the object of his early and faithful at- 
tachment lived at Amsterdam, independent and re- 
spected. A meeting was appointed for them in the 
house of a female friend. Faber was easily recognised 
as less worn by the brunt of war than she had been 
by the struggles of every-day life; but in the pallid 
and emaciated woman of thirty-nine he could at first 
find nothing of the girl of seventeen, whom he had left 
in bloom and freshness; and the secret anguish of 
both, as in confidential conversation they mutually 
unravelled the web of their separate course, and traced 
the particulars of the divided existence which seemed 
as though it must have lasted for life, may be imagined 
by those whose sympathies have not been so absorbed 
by fictitious pictures of suffering, as to find the ro- 
mance of real life insipid. The stunning shock of 
the first glance once overcome, Faber was not long in 
retracing the qualities of heart and powers of mind, 
which in combination with long-lost youth had so 
long fixed his affections. He urged upon Christiana 
the immediate fulfilment of the engagement which, 
though never formally made, had yet been faithfully 
kept, and the more, as he was under orders with his 
regiment to form a part of the myriad army then col- 
lecting by order of Napoleon I. for the campaign of 
1812 in Russia, and his leave of absence was on the 
point of expiring. But Christiana insisted upon the 
delay of their marriage, until he should have returned 
from the Russian expedition—from which he never 
eame back. Thus his ‘departure from Amsterdam 
was to them a final parting. She had long to wait 
E 2 


52 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1814 


before anything like certain intelligence, that Faber 
was in the number of the fallen, arrived to confirm 
apprehension ; and before it came, the failure of banks 
and of mercantile houses throughout Holland (conse- 
quent upon the unsparing extortions of the Imperial 
government) had swallowed up the whole of the funds 
from which she derived her maintenance—the result 
of the labour and endurance of the best years of life. 
Without health and without earthly hope, she was 
therefore thrown upon her own powers of mind and 
body for subsistence, the more difficult to obtain as 
her pride suggested the keeping her unmerited mis- 
fortune secret. For a while she struggled on, retain- 
ing the same neat lodging as before, executing fine 
needlework for the linen warehouses, and meeting 
her daily expenses as she could with the produce of 
her industry, until her sight began to fail, and the 
already shattered frame gave way. A kind-hearted 
physician came unsummoned, and suspecting the 
cause to be the want of care and comfort, communi- 
cated in confidence his observations to a few of her 
friends, whose character and kindness would have 
deserved at her hands a willing and not compulsory 
communication of her distress. From that moment 
all appliances for the sick were supplied anonymously, 
with that persevering delicacy of benevolence so re- 
markable in Dutch society. On her recovery, she 
submitted to the necessity of disclosing the facts of . 
her condition to two female friends, one being 
Madame de Bischong (related to her former invalid 
protectress), a lady who considered her large fortune 
to be the patrimony of the poor, and whose life was 


JET, 23] CHRISTIANA BUNSEN. 58 


spent in the endeavour to relieve misery of every 
kind. She, from that time, made Christiana an 
allowance sufficient for her comtort, as long as she 
was without other provision, that is, until her brother 
was in a condition to maintain her. 

The visit af Christiana to her father in her bro- 
ther’s infancy (which probably took place in 1798 or 
1799) would seem to have been undertaken as a 
home-return for life; and the great affection which 
began and subsisted between her and the engaging 
child, whom every circumstance combined to make 
the sole hope and joy of a sorrow-stricken family, 
would have seemed reason sufficient for bearing and 
forbearing, in order to be able to remain under the 
paternal roof. But Christiana, though strongly at- 
tached to her father, had not enough of the spirit 
of conciliation in her nature to remain on peaceable 
terms with her stepmother and younger sister, except 
at a distance ; and the perpetual contact and friction 
of uncongenial characters in a household of limited 
means became intolerable. Her return, therefore, to 
Holland, and to a life of independence, active useful- 
ness among the poor and sick, and more desirable 
social relations, was felt by herself to be a necessity. 
But her father was never reconciled to the loss of her 
society ; and the need which he felt of his daughter’s . 
presence must have been made clear to the son at 
a very early age, as is proved by allusions to the sub- 
ject, and to the reasons which might induce her to 
prefer living in Holland, and even in schoolboy letters. 
This eager desire to make it possible to visit her, as 
soon as a journey from Géttingen could be afforded, 


54 - MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 1814 


is continually made evident, as well as the hope that 

his arguments, brought to bear in person, would be 
more effectual than in writing, to secure her return- 
ing to make amends, as far as might be, for his own 
absence from home. Of his sister’s misfortunes and 
indigent condition he had no idea till they met, as has 
been said, in October 1814, when the day |after a re- 
cognition, almost as rapturous as though the parties 
had been lovers instead of brother and sister, she dis- 
closed, in a paroxysm of tears, that she was not only 
penniless, but indebted to friends for her support, 
without prospect of relief but from him, as her bodily 
powers in their broken condition were utterly inca- 
pable of any kind of labour or exertion. The sympathy 
of the hearer was roused, as may be imagined, but 
no fear or mistrust was felt as to his being enabled 
to bear the additional weight, which so unexpectedly 
fell upon him, far as he was as yet from any distinct 
prospect of personal independence. He never, through 
life, shrank from responsibility, however great the 
personal risk incurred, and had a strong conviction 
that what ought to be done would be acomplished, 
even though the means of accomplishment were not 
visible ; as Providence would help, if only he should 
not be wanting in courage and perseverance. His 
sister must not be left a recipient of the alms even 
of her high-minded friend—that was clear; and she 
must be prevailed upon to re-enter the paternal 
household (in a far less expensive country than any 
part of Holland), where it might be within his power 
to contribute to meet the cost of her maintenance, 
until he should be appointed to a professorship, and 


Ex. 23] «CHRISTIANA BUNSEN. 55. 


thus be enabled to offer her to share a home of his 
own. He accordingly reconducted her, as it were, 
in triumph to his father’s house, where he caused by 
his presence the last gleam of joy that ever visited 
it; for not very long after this date his good father’s 
powers of mind and body declined together, and the 
year 1814 would seem to have been the last of full 
intelligence and self-possession. 

In that year, in the accustomed note-book, Henrich 
‘Christian reckoned up the amount of his earnings— 
‘Account of cash-receipts, by God’s mercy obtained 
for transcribing law-documents, between 1793 and 
1814: sum total, 3,020 thalers 33 groschen ;’? and he 
made three copies of the whole, one for each of his 
children. 


” LEG 
\ ie ‘a 


¥ f 
ALAR JUNG LIGRAR 
g , 


56 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1815 


CHAPTER Ii. 


CORRESPONDENCE WITH LUCKE-—-NIEBUHR—PHILOLOGICAL STUDIES—MR. 
ASTOR—-VISIT TO PARIS—-PROJECTED JOURNEY TO AMERICA AND INDIA 
—ITALY—MR. CATHCART—-ROME—-LOVE AND MARRIAGE. 


e@ 


Tue beginning of the year 1815 found Bunsen 
again at Gottingen, in a course of vigorous study, 
and of a species of social intercourse, which, though 
affording useful relaxation from close application, 
brought his faculties into no less strong action. 
Such habitual communion of aspiring minds, all fixed 
on intellectual progress, enjoying their own and each 
other’s development, not suppressing high spirits, 
nor losing individual independence in partisanship, 
but by common consent ‘snatching the life of life’ in 
a free interchange of thought and opinion, at the last 
moment before parting to be dispersed in various 
directions to their manifold destinations, is a spec- 
tacle which, it is to be feared, belongs to the past only ; 
and the high poetry (Sophocles, Shakespeare, Gdthe) 
which ruled the hour in these social meetings, alter- 
nating with ‘ heart-easing mirth,’ will rarely perhaps 
be found among the pastimes of any modern Univer- 
sity. 
~ Ina letter written in 1861, by Herr von Bethman- 
Hollweg, mention is made of the sensation produced 
by Bunsen’s suddenly quitting a lecture-room in the 
Gottingen University, in indignation at the unworthy 


ZEr. 23] HIS STUDENT LIFE AT GOTTINGEN. 57 


manner in which the most sacred subjects were 
treated by a certain dignified teacher of rationalism. 
The ‘ Herr Abt’ (a title in some places retained from 
Romanist times) paused at the interruption produced, 
and hazarded the remark, that ‘some one belonging 
to the Old Testament had possibly slipped in unre- 
cognised ;’ which called forth a burst of laughter from 
the entire auditory, all being as well aware as the 
lecturer himself who it was that had mortified him. 
The date of the occurrence is not given. The mem- 
bers of the circle of Bunsen’s peculiar intimates were 
all well known as being, each from his own point of 
view, in opposition to the ruling system of so-called 
religious instruction at that time. 


Bunsen to Becker. 
{Translation. ] Gottingen: 20th March, 1815. 


My journey into Holland last autumn was one of the 
most agreeable that I ever made. All that this remarkable 
people possess—land, language, manners, art—is so entirely 
of one character, and, as it were, out of one mould, that 
nowhere, perhaps, could the connection of these appearances 
with one another be more clearly perceived. Thus also is 
the inner nature and the history of the poetry of this nation 
a counterpart of their school of painting. In all, the Ger- 
man, or, if you will, the Teutonic character, is worked out 
into form in a manner more decidedly national than any- 
where else. Perhaps I may one day carry out the theme 
which rests on this example. 

This journey has yet more confirmed my decision to be- 
come acquainted with the entire Germanic race, and then 
to proceed with the development of my governing ideas 
For this purpose I am abbut to travel with Brandis to Co- 
penhagen to learn Danish, and, above all, Icolandic. 


58 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1815 


To Titeke: 


[Translation.] Copenhagen: 16th June, 1815. 


BeE.ovep Lice !—The sun shines brightly over the sea 
and the green slopes, which extend from the last line of 
waves to my cheerful dwelling: the noise of the town 
disturbs not the calm of my spirit, in which the sunbeams 
of memory are reflected, clear as the light of heaven in the 
water-mirror. Thus, I can fancy myself back again in 
your happy circle, on the flowery turf, in the garden, or in 
the snug corner of the friendly room. I have never thought 
more of Germany than in these latter days—now in glad- 
ness, and now in sadness—-and often seem to myself as if 
transported, out of the ocean teeming with life and rest- 
less in motion, into an artificial pond, in which nothing 
short of a tempest from without could create even a ripple 
on the surface, and impede the process of corruption. This 
is a just image of the contrast between the present national 
life in Germany and in Denmark. The sacred enthusiasm 
for the common cause of the country is found to have died 
away, soon after you have crossed the Hlbe, at least on my 
line of travel: the cultivator of the soil in his solitary 
abode exults in not seeing a soldier, and in not being 
obliged to become one, and knows and cares not what 
takes place beyond his own narrow horizon. The inhabit- 
ant of the town is only troubled by the stagnation in trade 
—and all national spirit is wanting. . . . In general I work 
alone with Brandis till three o’clock, then we join the 
Brandis family, and either remain with them till mid- 
night, or from thence proceed in the evening to the beauti- 
ful royal gardens, or visit some friendly house (of Oersted, 
Oehlenschlager, Kaalrupp, &c.), or return to our own peace- 
ful rooms. Visits have become more frequent, as I had need 
of practice in Danish conversation, instead of poring con- 
stantly over books; but they will again give place to the 
regular study of Icelandic, which I am about to begin. I 


LET. 23] LETTER TO REINHARD BUNSEN. 59 


put off till later making longer expeditions through the 
garden of Freya, as the Danes, not unfitly, name Seeland. 
The society here is pleasing, as being easy and uncon- 
strained, and animated by musical talent, but is not other- 
wise calculated to produce a strong impression. I am most 
intimate with Oehlenschlager, who reads with me his own 
tragedies, &nd is by far the most gifted and cultivated man 
among the Danes. He is vain of himself and fond of 
display, but in a childlike, rather than an arrogant manner. 
Brandis’s father * is decidedly the most distinguished and 
powerful individual whose acquaintance the journey to 
Denmark has procured to me; his stores of universal 
knowledge, his penetrating intellect and extreme animation, 
above all, his strong rectitude of judgment and unprejudiced 
views of life, proceeding from manifold experience, join to 
render intercourse with him profitable and invigorating, as 
well as enjoyable to me. 


Bunsen to Reinhard Bunsen at Berlin. 


[Translation.] Copenhagen: 15th July, 1815. 


No letter from home; but one from you, without which 
the day would have passed very gloomily, as the newspapers 
are not cheering; they have not yet announced the entry 
into Paris, and have been altogether silent about Blicher 
since the 26th. Yet I will dismiss anxiety—God will surely 
grant a good issue—and I shall give myself up to the feel- 
ings of joy called forth by the much that is to be rejoiced 
in. How often do I wish to be only for one hour in Germany, 
above all in Prussia, to share and communicate my enthu- 
siastic exultation and thankfulness with thousands and 
millions of souls equally inspired! that is the only thing 
here wanting to me. 


* Dr. Brandis, after an extensive practice in his native city of Hildes- 
heim, and having made himself known by medical writings of high 
merit, was called to Copenhagen as Physician to the King of Denmark. 


60 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


Bunsen to Lricke. 
[Translation, ] Copenhagen : 10th October, 1816. 


In answer to an enquiry addressed to Niebuhr by Brandis, 
he writes as follows :— 

‘That State in Northern Germany which gladly receives 
every German, from wheresoever he may come, ‘and. consi- 
ders every one thus entering ’as a citizen born, is the true 
Germany. That such a State should prove inconvenient 
to others of inferior importance, which persist in continu- 
ing their isolated existence, regardless of the will of Pro- 
vidence and of the general good, is of no consequence 
whatever; nor even does it matter, that in its present ma- 
nagement there are defects and imperfections. Taking all 
in all, 1 would not exchange our nation for that of ancient 


Rome.’ 


To the Same. 
[Translation. ] Berlin: 21st November, 1815. 


We left Copenhagen on the 30th, and soon encountered 
heavy gales. Our little boat was nearly capsized by the 
waves. ‘The greatest efforts of our sailors with their oars 
were required. At last, on the 6th, we reached the harbour 
of Swinemiunde. To consider Berlin as the centre of action 
for the newly awakened spirit is just and right; but to 
suppose the results hitherto obtained to be equal to existing 
demands would be an error. As an ideal treatment of the 
empirical sciences, and especially of history, had formerly 
taken root here, in opposition to the ancient lifeless and 
material system of study, so now a tendency to realism is 
wholly supplanting idealism; and it is on the ground of 
positivism that the new University is based, the impossi- 
bility having been felt of resisting the spirit of the age. 
Lachmann ought to come here with his Propertius : he may 
be sure, not only of subsistence, but of honour. Schulze 
must accompany him. With much awe and reverence did 


Er. 24] CORRESPONDENCE WITH LUCKE. 61 


I approach the great men of learning, and left them, with 
increase of the latter, but discarding the former. My visits 
to Neibuhr, Schleiermacher, and Solger demand the first 
notice, but I can now only speak of those to Niebuhr. It 
would be hard to describe my astonishment at his command 
over the entire domain of knowledge. All that can be 
known seems to be within his grasp, and everything known 
to him to be at hand, as if held by a thread. He met me 
at once with the advice to carry out my project of an 
Oriental journey of linguistic research for the Prussian 
Government. I should gladly write to you much more of 
Niebuhr—in particular of his indescribably pleasing and 
benevolent manner, which alone accounts for his not being 
repulsive and harsh, with so much decision of character 
and opinion. His heartis evidently full of kindness. ... On 
Saturday, he took Brandis and myself to dine with the so- 
called Lawless Club,* and made us acquainted with Savigny, 
Schleiermacher, and Reimer (the publisher) : nearly all the 
members call each other by the friendly Thou. 


The winter of 1815 to 1816, spent at Berlin, was 
in many respects important, and in none more so than 
through the influence gained over Bunsen’s mind by 
the preaching of Schleiermacher, aided by the per- 
sonal impression of his mind and character. But 
Bunsen’s chief aim was to condense and systematise 
the subjects of his habitual meditation, with a view 
to the great ideal aim of his life. The result, in a 
small number of pages, was submitted to Niebuhr, 
who granted it his earnest and approving, not to say, 


* This Club was established by the efforts of Schleiermacher, to bring 
together at a friendly meal, once a fortnight, men of varied occupations, 
and of different shades of opinion. The name was selected, on the 
first occasion of meeting, out, of a number proposed, to designate the 
absence of rule or of preeminence among its members. The Club still 
exists. 


62 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


admiring notice, and thereupon formed the opinion, 
afterwards expressed on an important occasion, that 
Bunsen was ‘perhaps the most distinguished of his 
younger countrymen.’ 

A letter dated Berlin, Jan. 27, 1816, expresses 
warm acknowledgments to his sister for hér success- 
ful arrangements for the celebration of the ‘silver 
wedding,’ and for the full account she had written of 
the family festival, into the pleasure of which the 
parents would seem to have fully entered. The scene 

was soon, alas! tochange. A violent attack of rheu- 

matic gout, to which his father was subject, brought 
on a condition of debility of body and mind which 
continued, only varying in degree, until he was re- 
leased by death four years later. His son felt the 
shock severely; it must have been the first sorrow of 
his life. 


[ Translation. ] 


And have I indeed looked upon him for the last time, as 
the ideal image ofa fine old age, in health of body and mind ? 
All, all that is passed! Since I quitted the home of child- 
hood, the most earnest wish of my soul has been, that he 
might have joy in me and in the conditions of my life; and 
now that my hopes and prospects brighten, he is become 
incapable of rejoicing over anything with full clearness or 
perception! This state of suffering pains me doubly, from 
its cause and nature—first because it has most probably 
been brought on, as you justly observe, by his unremitting 
and unsparing exertions by day and night; and next, be- 
cause he is tormented by a number of anxieties, which he 
did not allow to prey upon his mind, as long as it was in its 
native unconquerable vigour. On this account, your being 
with him is an inexpressible comfort to me, as I know that 


ZET, 24] LETTER TO BARNDIS. 638 


you alone possess influence enough over his feelings, to quiet 
down his distress into a mere sadness, and bring him back 
to rest in God and in the divine Mediator, and perhaps even 
to tranquil consciousness; so that you can, better than any 
spiritual guide, smooth his way to death. 


Mr. Astor, anticipating his promised return to 
Kurope and to his friend by fully three months, 
arrived at Paris towards the end of November, 1815. 
It was some time before Bunsen received his invita- 
tion to join him there, and this seems to have discon- 
certed the plans he had meanwhile formed for the 
winter. At first hopes were entertained that Mr. 
Astor would be induced to pay a lengthened visit 
to Berlin, then such an intellectual centre as it has 
probably not been before or since. A protracted cor- 
respondence took place between them. When at 
length it became clear to Bunsen that Mr. Astor had 
resolved to await his arrival at Paris, he started from 
_ Berlin, and spending a few days with his friends 
Becker, Hey, Agricola, &c., at Gotha, with Liicke 
and others at Gottingen, and with his sorely stricken 
family at Corbach, he made all haste to cross the 
French frontier. The following letters were written 
in the course of this journey :— 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
[ Translation. ] Gottingen: 19th March, 1816. 


BeELoveD Frienp !—This day is the anniversary of an hour 
of crisis, as strongly fixed in my memory as in yours; the 
origin not only of closer confidence and more intimate friend- 
ship, but of the peculiar love and estimation which binds my 
whole inward being indissolubly to yours. For even as the 
intensity of your suffering gave me occasion to see more 


64 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. 1816 


clearly than before into the depths of faithfulness and self- 
devotedness in your mied, so did also the moral energy, so 
eminently and powerfully developed in your manful struggle 
with grief, seize upon my mind with sympathetic attraction. 
When God shall send me sorrow, should I learn to endure 
and combat, should I ever attain to the power and the 
strength which I ask of God, I shall chiefly dcknowledge 
the benefit derived from the contemplation of your doing and 
suffering in the past year. 


To the Same. 
{ Translation. | Frankfort: January, 1816. 


That I am here, and wherefore I came, you will have learnt 
from the diary in which I have written of the concerns of our 
friends. These lines therefore are devoted to my dearest 
friend, to yourself, my beloved Brandis, and to your sorrows. 
I know that your wound is fresh, and I need not apprehend, 
by my mention of it, to tear it open anew; for a man has 
nothing more sacred, of all that is essentially his own, than 
his grief. Let us then again clearly utter the fact, that God 
saw not good to grant your heart’s desire; therein lies an 
abyss of suffering for your faithful and deeply sensitive 
nature, and also the beginning of a possibility of tranquilli- 
sation and of consolation. With the removal of hope, uncer- 
tainty (the most terrible of evils) has also been removed ; 
wherefore, renouncing all delusion, let the mind’s eye take 
in the whole affliction; and thereby, and therewith only, 
discern and receive the pervading ray of divine light and 
| strength within us. Consider your calling, by means of 
hard-earned power and virtue to further the work of God 
in suffering humanity; consider our divine Forerunner and 
Example. If you place Him before your eyes, and feel the 
influence of blessing which flows from this immediate repre- 
sentation of God through the contemplative soul, and con- 
sider how you are called, more than many and most, to the 
exercise of the work of love, and that you have not far to 


ZEr. 24] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 65 


look for opportunity, you cannot fail to experience the con- 
soling power of the Spirit of God. I can only refer you to 
yourself :—but though mistrustful of my own slumbering 
energy, I yet go forward with integrity of will and aroused 
spirit to meet my own time of trial. My own words must 
fall back upon me, if I should in my own case forget them ; 
you must theh place not only these my convictions but 
yourself before me. First, however, begin with the unhappy 
Schulze, who knows and will know nothing of that inward 
power, or of the demands of moral obligation. He is indeed 
wretched. 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 
[ Translation. | Metz: 2nd April, 1816. 


[After thanking her for advice given, he continues :—] I 
have thus received another proof, though for my conviction I 
needed it not, what a treasure of experience, judgment, and 
fortitude les in your mind. Consider well, that whoso- 
ever has such gifts, should rejoice in the life of usefulness 
pointed out by God, and not be cast down but joyfully rest 
in Him. I promise you work enough to do with me, and I 
will try to prove to you that I can learn to profit by your 
counsels. 

Amid the confused sounds of lamentation, abuse and com- 
plaint of the French that one hears, one would fain stop 
one’s ears. But I have contrived to conciliate my travel- 
ling companions, and to listen to the detail of their grie- 
vances. Some will in a degree hear reason, others not at 
all; but as to admitting that they can have been beaten in 
a regular battle, that is out of the question with every one 
alike. There are many families still at Metz of German 
origin, the town having become French only since 1550; 
but the people will not believe that, as they know nothing 
of history. Only at two hours’ distance from Metz, German 
is still the language of the ptople—but, it is true, everybody 
speaks French as well. 

VOL. I. F 


66 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


At Paris Bunsen was received by Mr. Astor with all 
the cordiality of their long-tried intimacy. But there 
was a difficulty, and Mr. Astor solved it in the most 
considerate manner. Despairing of the arrival of his 
friend, he had engaged himself to accompany a few 
of his countrymen on a three months’ teur to Rome, 
vid Florence, thus giving Bunsen time to conclude 
his Persian studies at Paris, under the auspices of 
Silvestre de Sacy, at that time, probably, the greatest 
Oriental scholar in Europe. It was agreed that 
Bunsen and Astor should meet in Italy three months 
later. 


Bunsen to Brandis. 

[ Translation. ] Paris: 27th April, 1816. | 

.. . Of myself I must tell you, that I am deeper in work 
than evor. In order to get well into the course of study, 
and at the same time to abridge the time of waiting, I have 
ventured upon great, and what you may reckon andacious, 
undertakings. At first I only planned following de Sacy’s 
lectures on Firdusi, which the Persian scholars in general 
do not attend, but which he carries on with two French 
pupils, one of whom has been eight, the other twelve years 
studying under him. To the great surprise of the latter 
I appeared among them, as a listener, a week ago; and to 
their vexation (because I was a cause of delay) in the next 
following lecture (which was yesterday), I already trans- 
lated my portion ; and as each time from 170 to 190 verses 
are gone through, there was enough to satisfy my appetite. 
But thereupon de Sacy would insist upon conducting me 
also into Meschoud and Sadi, partly from love to the 
subject, as he 1s de Sacy, and partly from the sort of noble 
pride the French have in showing how much they are 
willing to do for one; besides he thinks much of Germany 
and of his reputation there. I therefore entered upon those 


Ex.24] HIS ORIENTAL STUDIES IN PARIS. 67, 


lectures also, and having prepared myself as well as I could, 
and thus understood something of Sadi, I shall next week 
take my place in the ranks, and translate with the others. 
But this step drew another after it. For the understand. 
ing of the two latter poets a knowledge of Arabic is indis- 
pensable, if the thing is not to be done superficially, on 
account of the use of Arabic roots and idioms. Wherefore 
de Sacy proposed to me to attend an Arabic lecture, which 
he would as much as possible arrange for me. As I had 
now got well into the work, and felt that I should be able 
later to read on in Firdusi by myself, when I should have 
had the necessary practice, I accepted the offer, and shall 
begin next week to translate Pilpat, and possibly afterwards 
the Koran. When I now add that [continue twice a week 
to read Persian with Langlés, you will be aware that from 
morning till night I have enough to do in preparation and 
repetition: and this I do, with fury and delight, because 
I must get on, and I do get on. I[ have arranged my plan 
to my mind, with consideration of what I can learn here 
better than anywhere else. I work in the morning from 
five till ten ; then, in the garden of the Luxembourg (only 
three minutes’ walk), I drink my coffee. Then I work 
again, till five o’clock, when I dine. My hours are from 
nine to ten for Persian in the Collége de France (close by), 
and from three to five with Langlés, at the distance of a 
quarter of an hour’s walk. The Arabic is on Thursday 
from twelve to two; and between times I read MSS. atthe 
Bibliothéque, or go to Schlaberndorf From seven to half- 
past nine, or at the utmost ten, | am about some writing 
exercise; later I mean to give that time to the French 
theatre, for the sake of improvement in the language. 


Bunsen to lis Sister Christrana. 
[ Translation. ] | Paris: 11th May, 1816. 


4 
I thought I should have studied here all these three 
months only one language, the ancient Persian, that in which 
F 2 


68 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


my manuscript is written. But the modern Persian is in 
another respect important, as being in the East what the 
French language is, or was, in Europe,—that which every 
person of cultivation speaks. This modern Persian consists 
more than half of a mixture of Arabic, a language related to 
the Hebrew like the Danish to the German, which therefore 
must be learnt together with the Persian. It had been my 
‘project to learn Arabic in England; but Professor de Sacy 
‘here has met my wishes in so very kind and obliging a 
manner, and his method of teaching is so admirable, that I 
have been induced to attempt that also in this place, and I 
have to thank God for such a blessing upon my endeavour, 
that my progress has been more considerable than I had 
hoped. I may look forward to being able, when I leave 
Paris after three months, to read both the ancient and 
‘modern Persian and to speak the latter. Thus very possibly 
I may gain a whole year in my preparation for India, for I 
should not require to learn any other language in Europe, 
having made out that of the Indian tongues very little could 
be acquired at Paris, and to appear at Calcutta as a learner 
with respect to those would be no disgrace, as I might even 
surprise them there by being prepared in Persian. There 
and in England I should appear with no other pretension 
than that of being a Greek and Latin scholar, saying nothing 
about what I may have studied and learnt besides. You 
know that the English demand of every man to make one 
thing his profession, and one who pretends to many at a 
time is considered empty and not to be trusted. My prize 
essay (which I intend to improve and complete and reprint) 
treats of the connection between ancient Indian and Grecian 
Jaws and religious mysteries, and will thus prove doubly 
useful to me. Llook upon going from Italy to England with 
Astor as fixed; after that he means to be for some months 
in Germany,—‘ you can remain in England and in Germany 
as long as you wish (Astor said); but then, go to India by 
way of America; my father wishes to see you there, and 


JET. 24] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 69 


would send you on to Indiain one of his vessels.’ As to this 
point, I have come to no decision. I am perfectly well, and 
arrange my day as I like; work from six in the morning till 
four in the afternoon, only in the course of that time having 
a walk in the garden of the Luxembourg, where I also often 
study ; from four to six I dine and walk, from six to seven 
sleep; from Seven to eleven work again. In that manner 
I can make it possible to work in the evening, which other- 
wise I never could. I have overtaken in study some of the 
French students who had begun a yearago. God be thanked 
for His help! Before I go to bed I read a chapter in the 
New Testament (Jast night Corinthians xii.), in the morn- 
ing on rising one in the Old Testament; yesterday 1 began 
the Psalms from the first. 


On June 15, when preparing to leave Paris and 
proceed to Florence, to meet Mr. Astor, according to 
the promise given, he writes :— 

[ Translation. ] 


I can now help myself on alone in all that I had intended 
to learn here, as I have learnt in these two months the 
method of study and have become acquainted with the 
means of help; and an equally considerable gain has been 
the acquaintance of French Oriental scholars, and of a young 
German (Freytag), who is become a real friend, so that I 
can now reckon an Orientalist among my friends; and 
lastly, of the celebrated and illustrious Alexander von Hum- 
boldt, . . . who intends in a few years to visit Asia, where 
I may hope to meet him. He has been beyond measure kind 
and obliging to me, and from him I shall receive the best 
recommendations for Italy and England, as well as from his 
brother, now Prussian Minister in London. Lastly, the 
winter in Rome may become to me, by the presence of Nie- 
buhr, more instructive and fruitful than in any other place. 
Thus has God ordained all things for me for the best, accord- 
ing to His will, not mine, and far better than I deserve, 


70 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


: A letter dated August 6th, at Florence, announces 
his arrival there on July 23, after a journey, tedious 
enough according to modern notions, but which he 
designates as prosperous and agreeable, even though 
he had experienced, as far as the frontier of Italy, an 
uninterrupted course of cold and rainy weather, ‘so 
that cloaked and clothed as in winter, he had yet 
shivered in the midst of figs and olives.’ It was on 
this journey that he was placed in momentary embar- 
rassment, by his resemblance to Napoleon I. and his 
family, at one of the stopping-places of the Diligence 
between Lyons and Marseilles. He was called out 
by the police from the table d’héte, where he sat with 
his companions of the Diligence, and subjected to 
close examination, as a supposed Napoléonide, having, 
in spite of prohibition, crossed the frontier from 
Germany: the testimony, however, of all his fellow- 
travellers to his having occupied a place in the Dili- 
gence in their company all the way from Paris, and 
of one of them, that he had seen him at Paris, was 
finally admitted to be satisfactory. 

In Florence he found at the banker’s a letter from 
Mr. Astor, whom he immediately afterwards met in 
person. Mr. Astor had left Rome precipitately, on 
his way to New York, in consequence of his father’s 
having urged his speedy return. The disappointment 
on both sides was great. Mr. Astor renewed in the 
most pressing manner his request that Bunsen would 
accompany him to New York; but when he found 
Bunsen obdurate about not leaving Europe until he 
should be better prepared for his Oriental journey, he 


* 


Zr. 24} RESIDES AT FLORENCE. 71 


took leave of him. The friends parted to meet again 
in Heidelberg, after a lapse of forty-one years. 

After having seen Mr. Astor depart, Bunsen was 
left to reflections sufficiently discouraging to have 
crushed the energies of almost any other less buoyant 
nature—his*own cherished prospects broken up, and 
his sister’s letters giving the most heart-rending 
details of the bodily sufferings as well as the mental 
decay of his father. He labours to quiet the ap- 
prehensions of his sister, assuring her that having 
received this check is a sort of consolation, as it had 
seemed to him ‘unfair to be the only fortunate in- 
dividual in the family visited by sickness and trial 
of every sort, which he had not been able effectually 
to relieve.’ 


{ Translation. | 


By the late event my soul has been brought into a whole- 
some shade, far more beneficial than the former sunshine of 
fortune ; a feeling of repose, tranquillity, and peace of mind 
steals over me, and I am led to seek the inward, in propor- 
tion as J am deprived of the outward, support. And thus 
I become aware more than ever, of the power that God has 
placed in me, and also how much I have been wanting in 
the full exertion and worthy use (in and through God) of 
that strength which he has given. The only difference I 
find as regards my studies is, that I can now work much 
more than in the former condition of things, The forenoon 
is devoted entirely to the Persian language ; then I rest from 
exertion, and ,strengthen myself in coutemplation of the 
wonderful works of art that Florence possesses ; after which 
I dine, and return to my room, or wander in the beautiful 
valley amid vines, fig-trees, orange-trees, and cypresses. The 
only disturbance I experience is from the good-natured 


72 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


people with whom I lodge, and their children, who like to 
talk to me; but cheering and pleasing though they be, I 
know it is better to avoid this intimacy, and thus I am going 
to remove into the country, half an hour’s distance from 
Florence, to a lodging in a park (the Cascine) with the 
finest of prospects, where I may be quite free from disturb- 
ance. The same day that I was busy with niy removal one 
of my travelling companions from Paris arrived, an English- 
man, who at that time, for the sake of going further with 
me, took the Marseilles route, and on his arrival here sought 
me out at once. He liked the situation of my new lodgings, 
and immediately engaged rooms in the same house. He had 
a Frenchman with him as a kind of secretary, from whom 
he desired to learn French; but though studying with much 
application, he found his progress to be slow; and on my 
birthday (August 25) he asked me whether I could not put 
him into a way of really acquiring French ; if I would do him 
that service, he would gladly assist me in the execution of 
my Indian plans, of which I had informed him, when we 
were travelling together. 


The letter goes on with particulars of Mr. Cath- 
cart’s having allowed his French companion to give 
up his engagement, and induced Bunsen to spare him 
three hours daily for instruction in French for four 
months, besides showing and explaining to him the 
curiosities of Florence, and afterwards of Rome. 
This arrangement suited perfectly with Bunsen’s plan 
of awaiting the arrival of Niebuhr at Florence, on 
his way to Rome, and he writes further to his sister, 
‘See! thus far has God helped me! you will believe 
that I am thankful! Giving lessons disturbs me but 
little, as I may choose the hours that suit me, and I 
profit much by the practice of speaking English.’ 


FEr. 25] LETTERS TO LUCKE AND SCHULZE. 73 


Bunsen to Inicke. 
{Translation. ] Florence: 10th August, 1816. 


I am working here with real fury: in the morning at 
Firdusi till nine; from that time till twelve, at the Lau- 
rentian Library, over the Firdusi MS.; from twelve till 
three in the Gallery, where I imbibe undisturbedly the 
grandeur of those ancient forms, even to ecstasy, particu- 
larly the Niobe. At three dinner, and, from four to seven, 
again in the Library. At seven I return to my lodging, 
and find my landlady and her sister spinning in our com- 
mon hall, and talk or read Italian with them. ... I continue 
to read the New Testament, and desire to go through both 
Old and New in the original languages; but I have need 
first of more inward comprehension of the sense. ... I con- 
template working out a part of my general researches into 
the nature of language, as the beginning of the projected 
course well known to you. 


Bunsen to Ernst Schulze. 
{Translation. ] Florence: 25th September, 1816. 


Let me express to you something that I have borne about 
in my mind for years, and in full consciousness since 1813. 
Misunderstandings between you and me I have never ap- 
prehended ; but I did fear to wound the inner man, which 
ought to be held sacred, as the Egyptians shrank from un- 
veiling the image of Isis. This, too, I now fear no longer ; 
if I err in my confidence, you can but tell me. 

Every man, I believe, can only represent in entire truth, 
whether in life, or in any other art, what he has himself 
really known, beheld, experienced. Now we find that each 
individual, more or less, particularly in an age of high 
mental culture, has received into himself the forms, and, so 
to say, the phantasms belonging to his epcrh. To guard 
himself against the latter may well be difficult to one who, 
like yourself, is gifted with the seer’s wide-reaching and 


74 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


sympathetic vision. The very creative power which God 
has given him brings forth, out of adventitious views, foreign 
to his own, original forms of life and feeling in all varieties, 
and seduces the poet to handle such a world of supposed 
existence, as though it were properly his own and a reality, 
by the working of his inner man. Thus does it seem to me 
that, in the days that are past, your poetical soul has seen 
and represented much, without its being lived through, as it 
were in yourself; this therefore you could not inwardly feel 
and believe to be near and real. Now that is exactly what 
no mortal can do with impunity. Thus did you gradually 
lose the power of believing in what is true in itself; and for 
all your representations, whether of love, of faith, of all 
primary ideas in life, you ended by knowing no basis but 
that of your own fancy, which was able at any time to de- 
stroy the entire fabric of its creation. You suffered the fate 
of many a poet before you, viz. to be incapable of believing 
in that, by which you were bringing to consciousness the 
unspoken sensations of many a reader’s soul. 

But now, as I firmly believe, your life has taken a rare 
and most salutary turn. With few men has the leading 
hand of God shown itself more visibly than in your case. 
Heavy sorrow has been allotted to you. Truly, if you will 
but continue to live through in yourself what your verses 
contain, how glorious is the life that awaits you! The poet’s 
fine perception will find itself combined with a warm love 
of real life, and the artistic power which God bestows with 
the ethical which alone elevates man into man’s estate. 
Your first step must be, to throw off everything which 
threatens to separate in you the poet from the man. Tear 
yourself away, and—come to us! : 


Bunsen to Agricola. 
[ Translation. ] Florence: 7th October, 1816. 


You must imagine what I feel in wandering with Nie- 
buhr over the ruins of the ancient, pre-Roman, Etruscan 


ZEr.25] HIS CONNECTION WITH MR. CATHCART. 75 


magnificence, and then again among the splendid monu- 
ments of the destroyed liberty of the modern Athens, the 
city of Dante and Machiavelli. What can be more vene- 
rable and affecting than the melancholy, the mourning of a 
great man over the human race? It is like the Divine 
Spirit in human form beholding with human sadness the 
vain rushing? of the generations of men towards an abyss; 
or like Prometheus witnessing and deploring from his rock 
the gradual extinction of the sparks he had kindled. And 
with all this wide grasp of contemplation, what a clear and 
single eye has Niebuhr for everything individual, what a 
certainty in his knowledge of fact,—in a word, what inward 
completeness ! 


Thus far have I written and am at the end of my paper, 
without a word in reference to yourself and your labours ! 
Do with your law documents as I do with the vocabularies 
of languages,—be subject to them for a time, and then you 
will be able to subdue them ! 


The connection thus entered into with Mr. Cath- 
cart was carried through satisfactorily to the end, 
and it was the earnest desire of the latter to have pro- 
tracted it much longer, and to have induced his 
young friend to accompany him to England, where 
he believed he could have forwarded the fulfilment of 
his wishes with regard to India by introductions to 
persons of influence. But passages in letters written 
even before he left Florence prove that his conversa- 
tions with Niebuhr, and reflection on the information 
obtained, had gradually brought about a change in 
Bunsen’s view with regard to the necessity of his long- 
projected expedition to (ndia; and the question was 
considered, whether or not the same end might be 


76 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


accomplished within the limits of Europe. In every 
plan or prospect for himself (that is, in order to work 
out those philosophical and theological problems to 
which he had early resolved to devote his life) he 
never failed to combine that of supporting and com- 
forting first his parents, and secondly his beloved 
elder sister: the younger was married and provided 
for. The tenderest regard to spare the feelings of 
Christiana, as well as to minister to her needs in 
body and mind, is evinced in every letter, from the 
time of the renewal of their acquaintance and inter- 
course in October 1814; and his letters from Florence 
and Rome are peculiarly urgent upon her to accept 
quietly and without murmur the dispensation of Pro- 
vidence, which obliged her to be a receiver, instead 
of a giver. ‘My heart bleeds, not to be able to do 
anything for you, but to supply this wretched cash. 
I feel that I am not worthy of the happiness to be 
called upon to take care of you, my invaluable sister 
—you, who are so much more worthy than myself! 
Only my love towards you could give me a right to 
this privilege, and to the hope and confidence that 
you will not consider me unworthy to be the provider 
of those outward things, which it is a happiness to be 
able to give, and a proof of affection to accept. If 
it would but please God to restore your health and 
that of my old father, I should be the happiest of 
mortals !’ 

From the very precise accounts given in these letters 
of sums received and expended, it is clear that very 
little was used by himself, or laid out in books, his 
only temptation to expense. The greater part went to 


ZET. 25] HIS CAR FOR HIS SISTER. (2 


meet the present maintenance and past obligations 
of his sister, whose friends in Holland had advanced, 
in her time of extreme need, sums which were con- 
sidered by him as debts of honour, and entirely paid 
up by successive instalments, before October 1816, 
when he mentions rejoicingly that the last remnant 
of the debt was cleared off. | 

In another letter of October 1, he speaks with 
satisfaction of the ‘connection with Mr. Cathcart, 
which I regard as one of the most fortunate oc- 
currences of my life;’ and looks forward to the en- 
joyment of ‘Rome, with all its treasures, still the 
capital of the world,’ and of the society of Niebuhr, 
‘equally sole of his kind with Rome; him alone I 
can acknowledge as my lord and master, because his 
instructions, and his personal excellence in every re- 
spect, as well as in that of learning, stand highest 
in estimation among all the men I know. He is 
essentially the person to form me into a thorough 
man and citizen of my country : moreover, as regard3 
the realisation of my plans to become a Prussian, he 
is equally the man.’ 


Letter tu his Sister Christiana. 
(Translation. Rome: 13th December, 1816. 


.... To have a year of leisure now is worth more to 
me than I canexpress. Although in my Oriental studies I 
must here help myself on without a teacher, except in Arabic, 
for which I have found a native instructor, Don Tommaso 
Kl Kusch, yet do I expect to get on here better than else- 
where. One part of my necessary work (in Greek) is per- 
formed with the co-operation of the friend of my heart, 
Brandis; and then I have daily the instructive and inspir- 


78 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. | 1816 


ing presence of Niebuhr, . . . and on all sides the grand 
monuments of mental greatness in days of old... . Such 
surrounding scenes and objects are calculated to raise the 
human mind above the vulgarity, emptiness, and insignifi- 
cance of our time, which (with few exceptions) notwithstand- 
ing a vast parade of learning and enlightenment, is devoid 
of actual light and warmth: all that is great and true in 
character is lost in striving after external show. Where 
are now those marked and God-gifted beings, of whom one 
can say that they are complete men ? 

It is matter of rejoicing, that among the young German 
artists here a circle has been formed of such as seek to re- 
vive among themselves the earnest, pious, faithful spirit of 
the ancient painters, and who are in consequence achieving 
works of such high merit as excite general astonishment.* 
Alas! some of these, who before were unbelievers, but had 
come to the conviction that no help was to be found but in 
God, in disgust at the indifference and infidelity of the 
Protestants of Germany, and in despair of the cause, have 
sought their salvation in Roman Catholicism, which in truth 
has in this place many worthy and pious, and at the same 
time intellectually distinguished members, while the ac- 
knowledged piety of the present Pope (Pius VII.), and the 
indescribable splendour and solemnity of the public wor- 
ship, are yet more calculated to work upon the imagination. 
Brandis and I have told these new friends, that we shall 
never become Catholics, but that we honour them in their 
conviction, more than such as believe nothing. Now again 
would I call down the blessing of God upon you, upon our 
parents, our sister and brother-in-law. May He strengthen 
us all, whether for joy or grief, by His Spirit. 


* «Their frescoes, he suys in a letter to E. Schulze, dated 14th De- 
cember, 1816, speaking of Cornelius, Overbeck, and other artist friends, 
‘have so astonished Canova, that he intends to give them an opportunity 
of painting in the Vatican.’ 


#ir. 25) CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS SISTER. 79 


Bunsen to Lnicke. | 
(Translation. } ' Rome: 12th February, 1817. 


My most earnest longing is towards the study of the 
Bible. Could I but read the Bible with you! God will 
doubtless help. Were there but a spirit of power, making 
itself felt among Protestants! not trifling and toying. In 
our time, as in Martin Luther's, the kernel must be labo- 
riously extracted and contended for; strong and valiant 
minds are needed, which may God send! . . . This carry- 
ing on of pursuits so different, as enquiries historical, philo- 
sophical, and linguistic,—Plato, Firdusi, the Koran, Dante, 
Isaiah, the Edda, &c.,—calls for tranquillity and order, 
such as cannot subsist externally without being founded 
within. But much has yet to be done for such a founda- 
tion. 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 
(Translation. | Rome: 8th February, 1817. 


An English family with three daughters take an interest 
in me, and by them I have been introduced to the Duchess 
of Devonshire, and to other persons. A learned young 
Englishman (Mr. William Clifford) lodges now in the same 
story with me; I read German with him, and he corrects 
my English writing. I live altogether retired, to avoid 
interruption and loss of time, and am so absorbed in my 
own ideas and researches, that as to my susceptibility of 
heart, in every respect, you may be more at ease, if possible, 
than ever. How needful this repose is to me, I feel more 
every day. During the last few years I had taken in more 
than I could in the time digest, and had I been compelled to 
proceed to further researches, the fruit of former labour 
might have glided away from me. . . . Meanwhile Rome 
offers me everything that | could wish, for keeping me in 
animated activity, and in constant remembrance of what 
is alone true and great in life. At the same time, at this 


80 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1816 


season it is truly an earthly paradise ; the weather almost 
uninterruptedly fine, and the air never colder than with us 
in the finest spring. In my room, with a sunny aspect, I 
never need fire, and mostly sit to write with open windows ; 
the almond-trees are full of blossom, and everything ex- 
pandiug into verdure. I would willingly exchange with 
you as regards the cold, if I could thus enable you to 
experience the effect of the sun; but that is just now 
impossible. 

As to my writing on the subject of Holland, that is at 
present one of the many impossible things. When I am 
again in Germany and have all materials at hand and lei- 
sure, then I can take the subject into consideration ; but to 
write a book upon it does not fall in with the course of my 
present work. I could only make due mention of it in its 
proper place in my projected larger work. But the Dutch 
ought now to do something for themselves in profiting by 
the renewed freedom of all communication with Germany, 
for they are in many respects behindhand. 


The intention of earnestly "advocating a closer 
correspondence and more constant interchange of 
thought between Holland and Germany had been 
entertained by Bunsen when in Holland, and is 
mentioned in a letter from Leyden. The especial 
sympathy which he anticipated from the theological 
mind in Holland bas in a remarkable manner re- 
sponded to his hopes since his decease, in the con- 
victions of distinguished men at Leyden and at 
Groningen, whose system very much agrees with, 
and is, in some matters, founded upon his writings, — 
All those who have intimately conversed with Bunsen 
must be aware how earnestly be desired the increase 
of intercourse between thoughtful minds of each and 


Er. 25] INTERCOURSE BETWEEN NATIONALITIES, 81 


every one of the cultivated and free-spirited nations, 
and wished that the intellectual and intelligent of all 
lands had but as much acquaintance with each other’s 
mental occupation as in the age of the Reformation, 
when mind acted upon mind in despite of distance, 
like the refiéction and reproduction of light from cor. 
responding mirrors. More particularly did he labour 
to convince his own countrymen, that although 
Germans possess eminently the privilege of acting 
as the intellectual instructors of mankind, yet they 
should not forget that other nationalities may also 
strike out truths, by which the common stock may 
be increased; and he regretted, and never failed to 
reprove, the spirit of exclusiveness, which he con- 
sidered to be gaining ground in the world. The high 
value which he entertained for the English mind and 
the English nation is too well known, and too often 
expressed by him, to need further dwelling upon in 
this place; but he entered with fulness of interest into 
the characteristic excellences of every nation; and 
alien to his character and convictions as were what 
are termed French tendencies and principles, he had 
a high estimation of the intellectual and moral power 
and perspicuity of the French mind, and ardently 
desired and anticipated, that the debt due to human 
society would some day be splendidly paid, and the 
full contribution made which France is capable of 
making, to the sum of good in the Christian social 
system. <A passage in his preface to the German 
edition of his ‘ Hippolytus’ shows his estimation of 
the Italian, of the Spanish, and of the Russian nation- 
VOL. I. @ 


82 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


ality; and the image that he was fond of using with 
regard to Italy, of the ‘absence and the need of the 
Italian chord in the musical harmony of Europe, in 
which as yet only the vibrations of the German, 
the French, and the English chords are heard,’ 
might have been extended further, had but the mental 
conditions of all nations answered to his demands on 
the universality of intelligence, in all its varieties of 
form. Nor were his sympathies bounded by the 
Atlantic. He took the most affectionate interest in 
American progress, and deplored, as a public and 
private calamity, the existing causes of hindrance to 
that moral expansion, holding in highest estimation 
the capabilities of development, for the best purposes, 
of the young giant State ; and among his last vale- 
dictory utterances was the observation, ‘The Ameri- 
cans are ina difficult pass—have great difficulties 
to overcome— but they will succeed at last.’ His 
cosmopolitan sentiments had their root in an entirely 
German heart. It has been well observed of him by 
those who had enjoyed much opportunity of judging, 
that his cast of mind and character was essentially 
German, and it was from his own national centre 
of thought and contemplation that he looked out 
upon, and entered into, every worthy variety of 
humanity. 

The last letter to his sister notified Bunsen’s intro- 
duction toan English family, consisting of father, 
mother, and three daughters; the next, dated April 
80, 1817, after announcing that he had sent some 
Italian engravings, &c., to his sister, contains the 
following abrupt communication :— 


Er.25] INTRODUCTION TO HIS FUTURE WIFE. 83 


(Translation. | 

Another piece of news is, that for about eight days I 
have almost been a little in love. Be not alarmed; only 
a little, and without consequences. I visited the family 
mentioned in my former letter because they were very kind 
in inviting me, and I had frequent opportunities of inter- 
course with them. I conversed naturally with the eldest 
daughter most of all (the second being engaged, and the 
third a child of thirteen years of age)—she understands 
German very well, besides French and Italian. . . . I read 
German with her with pleasure, and liked to discuss and 
dispute with her—as she makes the same objections to the 
principles of German literature that you do, and is a 
very earnest Christian of the Church of England. All this 
went on well, until the time of their departure from Rome 
approached: and I yielded to my inclination to profit by 
the mother’s extreme kindness in inviting me, almost daily, 
to walk and drive out with them. Having, at first, be- 
lieved myself quite safe (the more so as I cannot think 
of marrying, without impairing my whole scheme of mental 
development—and least of all, could I think of pretending 
to a girl of fortune)—I thought there was no danyer. But 
I have really fallen in love a little with the amiable cha- 
racter and clear understanding and good principles of this 
girl—and so, of course, I no longer go so continually to 
visit the family. I laugh at myself very often: yet, [ am 
disturbed and uncomfortable when I have passed a day with- 
out seeing her. 


During the following month of May, the circum- 
stance mentioned in the closing words of the last 
sentence (i.e. the passing a day without meeting) 
became of rare occurrence. In the enjoyment of the 
innumerable objects of interest in and aLout Rome, 
in the finest weather and most beautiful season, daily 


and hourly opportunity was found, in common un- 
G2 


84. MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


consciousness of possible consequences, for that inti- 
mate, unchecked, and uninterrupted intercommunion 
of thoughts and opinions, by which human beings 
are enabled really and actually, not superficially, to 
become acquainted with each other, and to ascertain 
the existence of that degree of sympathy and ful- 
ness of satisfaction in each other which is known by 
instinct, rather than reflection, to be no transitory 
feeling, but a life condition; as in the present case 
was the blessed experience of forty-three years, 
looked back upon by the sad survivor with unmingled 
thankfulness. The marriage took place on July I, 
1817. 
To Mrs. Waddington. 
Rome: 28th May. 

My prar Mapam,— . . . I particularly thank you for the 
really kind way in which you have taken what I wrote to 
you concerning my return to Rome: if I except that you 
much overrate my conduct as well as my feelings, you have 
quite spoken my mind. But more than for anything, let 
me give you my best thanks for the permission of con- 
tinuing Miss Waddington’s acquaintance, in that way 
which alone could answer my wishes and my principles, 
but which, after my conviction, could only be proposed and 
arranged by you. You are very right, that it is sometimes 
very easy to mistake, and to confound in yourself and in 
others, the feelings and expressions of friendship, in its true 
and full sense, with those more tender of love; but, as since 
the twelfth year of my age, my heart has been moved to a 
degree of enthusiasm, perhaps only known in Germany, by 
the power of friendship, I could not so easily be deceived in 
myself, nor induced to mistrust my feelings: and you know 
(vanity set aside) you generally mistake just as much in 
others as you do in your own sentiments. 


Jer. 25] ANNOUNCEMENT OF HIS MARRIAGE. 85 


I, therefore, only might be blamed for the unrestrained ex- 
pression of a feeling which, always increasing, has been in 
my soul from the beginning of our acquaintance—and be- 
lieve me, had I not been sure that you were sufficiently 
aware of my, perhaps more than English, enthusiasm for 
excellence and amiability, as well as of the plans and cir- 
cumstances of my life, J long ago should have renounced 
the delight of our almost daily conversation. Only when 
I felt that there could exist or arise anything equivocal in 
iy conduct, I, of course, could not hesitate a moment to 
depart. But I part with regret. Now, as you have said, 
what only by you could be said, everything 1s clear and 
settled, and I feel as happy as I always do, when heart, 
mind, understanding, and principles go all together. .. . 


The following letter was written two days after his 


marriage :— 
Bunsen to Brandis. 


| Translation. ] Frascati; 3rd July, 1817. 


Even yesterday I wished to have written to you; to-day, 
however, I shall wait no longer, for although my soul 
‘dwells in blessed silence,’ yet do I feel urged to com- 
munication with you, the dearest friend of my heart, on 
my actual condition. First I must tell you that I am con- 
scious of an immensity of space between the new life just 
begun, and the late unquiet weeks, and again between 
these and the period preceding. As if by a magic stroke, 
« thousand things seem to be brought near to me, with- 
out driving the rest into distant space: and though joyous 
and frolicksome, as I had not been this long time, I am 
yet serious and contemplative. Never will the evening 
of arrival at Frascati be forgotten! Not till after long 
silence had I been able to speak—the solemnity of the 
marriage ceremony had agitpted me through and through 

The evening sky was glorious, the sun sank just as 


86 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


we entered the town-gate, and when after the shadows of 
the long street, the sunset glow burst upon us, in which our 
neat dwelling was wrapped, it was like immediate entrance 
into Heaven. . . . Our first wish is to see you. You must 
give us the assurance, that we are really living in a human 
and natural condition— everything here being so ideal! 
No tumult of daily life,.—myrtles al] around,—cheerful 
rooms: on the east, the olive-grove with Villa Mondragone 
on the summit; to the north, the Apennines ; to the west, 
Rome and the sea, and over all the brilliant sky. I shall 
endeavour to propitiate Nemesis by an earnest dread of 
growing presumptuous or indifferent, when I reflect that all 
this is but the framework enclosing my happiness. 


Extract from a journal :— 
| Translation. | Frascati: 19th July, 1817. 


Eternal, omnipresent God! enlighten me with Thy Holy 
Spirit, and fill me with Thy heavenly light! What in child- 
hood I felt and yearned after, what throughout the years of 
youth grew clearer and clearer before my soul,—I will now 
venture to hold fast, to examine, to represent. 

The revelation of Thee in man’s energies and efforts, Thy 
firm path through the stream of ages, I long to trace and re- 
cognise, as far as may be permitted to me, even in this body 
of earth. The song of praise to Thee from the whole of hu- 
manity, in times far and near,—the pains and lamentations 
of earth, and their consolation in Thee,—I wish to take in, 
clear and unhindered. Do Thou send me Thy Spirit of 
Truth ! that I may behold things earthly as they are, with- 
out veil and without mask, without human trappings and 
empty adornment; and that in the silent peace of Truth I 
may feel and recognise Thee. 

Let me not falter, nor slide away from the great end of 
knowing Thee. Let not the joys, or honours, or vanities of 
the world enfeeble and darken my spirit ; let me ever feel 
that I can only perceive and know Thee, in so far as mine is 


Er. 25] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 87 


a living soul, and in proportion as that soul ‘ lives and moves 
and has its being’ in Thee. 

Preserve me in strength and truth of spirit to the end 
of my earthly existence, if Thou seest good ; and should I 
not finish what I shall have begun, if I attain not that after 
which I endeavour, let me find peace in the conviction that 
nothing shall perish which is done in Thee and with Thee ; 
and that what I have imperfectly known, imperfectly con- 
ceived, and indistinctly expressed, I shall yet hereafter be- 
hold in completeness, in perfection, and in power :—while 
here some other man shall perfect, by Thy help and bless- 
ing, what I in will and deed shall have endeavoured to 
do. Amen. 


A letter to his sister, dated July 27, 1817, replies 
in much detail to her expression of well founded 
anxiety as to a connection, of which she had need to 
know all attendant circumstances more exactly than 
in a distant and foreign position was possible, in order 
to be assured of the prospect of happiness, which 
(God be. thanked !) proved a reality. The same letter 
describes the delightful place of abode in which the 
first unclouded months of married life were passed, 
Casino Accorambuoni, on the further side of Frascati, 
towards the south-east. 


{ Translation. } 


Our abode is a new, clean, neatly furnished summer- 
house, the only new building I have seen here, where 
everything else is old and out of repair. It lies at the end of 
the town, on a slight elevation, all alone. Towards the east, 
on the first story, is a terrace, upon the balustrade of which 
are pots of myrtles and flowers, in the centre a marble 
basin with a small springing fountain, which in this hot 
climate is refreshing to see and hear, This terrace is lo 


88 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


feet wide, and extends as far as the breadth of the house, 
about 30 feet; below is a vineyard enclosed by a wall 
covered with ivy, also a field of maize and fig-trees, behind 
which extends a fine olive-ground and a long alley of 
cypresses and pines, belonging to the great Villa Mondra- 
gone. Towards the north is my study, with a balcony, 
which is the coolest place to inhabit in the mérning; from 
this room we see on the left the Mediterranean in the dis- 
tance, and Rome in the centre, while on the right are the 
beautiful Sabine Mountains, which form a semicircle round 
that extremity of the plain; and when there is no sirocco 
wind, they are so clear that even dwellings on the slope are 
distinguishable, though ten miles off—so transparent is the 
air. Before the window is a small flower-garden with two 
springing fountains. Towards the south are my wife’s 
rooms, which in the latter part of the day are pleasant, 
being entirely closed up from the sun in the morning. We 
can only go out in the morning from four to seven o’clock, 
and in the evening after eight. Nothing can describe the 
charm of early morning and evening; by day the heat is 
now 380° of Réaumur. 


In a letter dated October 17, 1817, he commissions 
his sister with messages to his friends in Holland 
(Sharp, Tydeman, Molenaer), and a charge to tran- 
quillise them as to his purposes in life ; ‘ for when they 
hear that I have given up my journey to India, and 
am married, they may, like many of my acquaintance 
(not my intimate friends) in Germany, apprehend 
that all my undertakings are given up. But my 
journey to India was only to be a means to an end; 
and there was nothing grand or praiseworthy in the 
design to give the best part of my life to an under- 
taking, which, however it might be useful as a 
preparation for later undertakings, would absorb all 


Ex. 26) HIS LIFE AT FRASCATI. 89 


the strength and time I should have to give, both for 
the beginning and the end. Even though it may 
sound presumptuous to declare, that I think to attain 
that object without those means, that I hope to suc- 
ceed in forming a clear view of the earliest life of the 
Oriental nations, without crossing the line—yet do 
I make that declaration without misgiving.’ 


90 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1817 


CHAPTER III. 
LIFE IN ROME, 


RESIDENCE ON THE CAPITOL~—-REFORMATION FESTIVAL——-DIPLOMATIC EM- 
PLOYMENT—— CHRISTMAS EVE—-CROWN FRINCE OF BAVARIA— CORRE- 
SPOUNDENCE ON GERMAN NATIONALITY-——FIRST. CHILD-—-CHUKCH MUSIC 
—HYMNS—ILLNESS, 


THE beautiful summer months were passed in a 
state of animated tranquillity and busy repose, 
Bunsen returning with renewed activity to literary 
occupations for a time neglected, and carrying on 
that regular study of the Old and New Testament, 
which continued through life to form the unbroken 
net of thought and contemplation, into which other 
subjects might be interwoven, without changing its 
habitual texture. He began from the first, daily to 
read the Scriptures with his wife, whose enquiries as 
to the explanation of passages he earnestly applied 
his mind to satisfy. Ata very early period she ob- 
served to him that she had hoped, by becoming 
acquainted with the German translation by Luther, 
to have difficulties removed that she had experienced 
in the English translation, which in the books of the 
Prophets, and in many other parts of the Old Testa- 
ment, often fails to present any intelligible construc- 
tion; but the contrary had been the result, the 
German translation presenting at least as many 
passages which to the common reader gave no sense 


Er. 26] HIS RESIDENCE AT ROME. 91 


whatever. He hereupon commenced an examination 
of the German and English texts, with reference to 
the original, which convinced him that her observa- 
tion had been just, to a greater extent even than she 
could have imagined ; and the project of an improved 
translation, of which that of Luther should be the 
ground-work, originated in his mind at that time, 
although he did not begin till some years later to 
work upon Jonah and the Psalms. For the English 
translation of the Bible he had a great respect: the 
Dutch translation he considered still more perfect, 
as having profited by the merits of the English, and 
avoided some of its imperfections. 

In the beginning of October the much-enjoyed 
dwelling in Casino Accorambuoni was given up, and 
a removal effected to the Palazzo Astalli, Via di Ara 
Celi. 

The size and proportions of one or two rooms, and 
the convenience of the apartment being on the first 
story, and attainable by two flights of easy stairs, 
constituted the temptation to be satisfied with this 
dwelling ; but when the young couple had procured 
and placed the small quantity of necessary furniture, 
and taken possession of the house, it was found that 
the want of sunshine would preclude the possibility of 
coinfort; the height of the opposite houses shutting 
out prospect, light, and warmth. The first walk under- 
taken was up to the neighbouring Capitol, and there, 
in the Palazzo Caffarelli, we discovered an apartment 
on the second floor, which proved a home for twenty- 
two years, to which our children look back as their 
birthplace, and which remains to all the scene of hal- 


92 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


lowed recollections. Its condition then was beyond 
conception uncivilised ; but how little impression in 
its disfavour was thereby made upon the far-seeing 
mind of Bunsen is clear from the expressions, in 
which he informed his sister of his final establishment 
on the Tarpeian Rock :— 


{Translation. ] 15th November, 1817. 

From the sccond story of this Palazzo (where, according 
to tradition, the Emperor Charles V.was lodged) there is a 
view all round Rome; on the N. one-quarter of the town, 
with gardens and hills behind; on the W. another quarter 
with the Tiber; on the S. the ruins of ancient Rome and 
the Latin mountains, on the side of which lies Frascati; on 
the E., close to us, the Capitol. The prospect has not its 
equal, in beauty and interest combined, in Rome, nor, as far 
as I know, in the world, yet is it little known, the Romans 
being too lazy to climb the hill. I at once resolved to make 
every effort in order to have this for a dwelling-place; the 
difficulty consisted in gettung rid of the other house. 


Their apartment indeed long required much to 
meet common demands, or to become what it was 
to be in process of years, when in the year 1858 
(twenty years after Bunsen had left it, and forty 
years after he first took possession) it was preferred 
to the first story, as the residence of his late Majesty 
Frederick William IV. and his Queen. 

The very short period, only part of the month of 
October, passed in Palazzo Astalli, was, however, 
marked by incidents of interest; the first being the 
unexpected introduction of Bunsen into diplomatic 
employment; the second, the celebration, at his sug- 
gestion, of the tercentenary jubilee of the Reforma- 


ZET. 26] THE REFORMATION JUBILEE. 93 


tion, which on the 31st October was to be solemnised 
in all parts of Germany, and which he desired should 
not be passed over unobserved by the numerous Ger- 
man Protestants in Rome. 

The following details regarding this celebration are 
found in the letter already quoted from :— 


You know the Reformation Jubilee was to be celebrated 
in Germany the 3lst October: we had often (Niebuhr, 
Brandis, and I) spoken of it, and how desirable it would be 
to collect all the Germans in Rome for such a celebration. 
I proposed the arrangement—no German Protestant clergy- 
man being at hand, I would myself translate the English 
daily service, with alterations suited to the occasion, which 
I would read, and Niebuhr should make a discourse; the 
celebration should be in his house. To the two last points 
he objected, first, that he had not the least bit of a preacher 
bout him; secondly, that, as Prussian Minister, he must 
avoid giving offence. He therefore desired that I would 
undertake the whole, and have the celebration in my house 

. The matter had become known, and many expressed 
the wish that it should take place the following Sunday. 
Brandis and I invited all German Protestants to attend by 
a notice posted at the German coffee-house (the Café 
Greco) ; Niebuhr and bis wife, the Baroness Von Humbvoldt 
(wife of the present Prussian Minister in London) and her 
daughters I invited especially, and they came; about forty 
individuals besides, for whom our large hall was arranged 
with two rows of seats. . . . 


The circumstances which led to diplomatic employ- 
ment are related by himself :— 
[Translation. ] 


The Prussian Envoy to"ngland, Wilhelm von Humboldt, 
before his departure from Berlin, bad written that my being 
appointed at this present time (i.e. to a Professorship at 


94 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


Berlin or Bonn, with permission to remain abroad for three 
years) would be a thing of great difficulty, the Minister of 
the Interior being much disinclined to expenditure, and the 
whole system of administration extremely economical. At 
length, the other day, I received a letter direct from the 
Ministry, saying, ‘that under the specified unusual condi- 
tions, the Prussian Government could not make use of my 
valuable services.’ Niebuhr was very angry, and said to 
Brandis, ‘Were I minister at Berlin, without knowing any- 
thing more of Bunsen than was to be known by reading his 
letter, I should have granted his request.’ ... While I was 
reflecting on these things, Brandis, the faithful friend, became 
seriously ill, and his weakness increased rapidly to such a 
degree that he could scarcely walk, and his brother Charles 
(who lately came to visit him, and is a physician) urged 
upon him the necessity of no longer concealing from 
Niebuhr his long-entertained wish to return to Germany. 
Yesterday evening, I was commissioned by him to go to 
Niebuhr, and prepare him for a conversation on the sub- 
ject, and found the case to be, as so often happens in life, 
that two persons have an urgent desire to make a com- 
munication to each other, and yet each waits for the other 
to begin. Brandis had not spoken, in the fear that Niebuhr 
might suppose him weary of their close connection; and 
Niebuhr assured me that he should long since have taken 
steps to secure to Brandis a Professorship in Prussia, had 
he not feared to hurt him in his present state of low spirits 
(consequent upon ill-health) by a suggestion, which might 
have created a suspicion of a lessened value on his part for 
Brandis’s company. I hereupon explained fully the various 
motives which induced Brandis to desire to be settled in 
Germany, and Niebuhr resolved at once to insist upon his 
immediately taking two months’ leave of absence, to go to 
Naples for the benefit of his health; and afterwards, in the 
spring or summer, as he should desire, to return to the 


fatherland. I offered to supply his place to the best of my 


ZET. 26] HIS DIPLOMATIC EMPLOYMENT. 95 


power in the business of the Legation, during his two 
months’ leave. Niebuhr went up to Brandis’s room to 
speak with him, and the matter was settled in a moment. 
As soon as Niebuhr and I were again alone, he asked me 
whether, if Brandis should finally give up and go to Ger- 
many, I should be willing to take his place? I thanked 
him for his kindness in thinking of me, and said, ‘If it is 
your opinion that I am fitted for the situation, and that it 
is good for me, then, in God’s name, I accept. My first 
feelings (I continued) at this moment are, on the one hand 
that to remain, for a time, longer in Rome is no loss, and 
to enter into closer connection with you I regard as the 
highest good fortune: on the other hand, I know too little 
of the diplomatic calling to be aware, whether it may not in 
the course of time quite draw me away from the execution 
of my plan of study and literary labour.” He replied ‘If 
you are once in public business you may afterwards do 
what you will—leave of absence or permission to retire can- 
not be refused.’ 

I cannot, of course, think of leaving Niebuhr if Iam once 
engaged with him; but afterwards I would on no consider- 
ation remain in the diplomatic career, even though it should 
not be difficult for me after his departure from Rome to 
supply his place as Chargé d’Affa’res, and perhaps even to 
become Minister Plenipotentiary, as Niebuhr now is, after 
twenty years. I detest that course of life too much, and 
therefore only look upon it as a means of becoming inde- 
pendent. But in three years Niebukr will certainly have 
finished, and when the Concordat with the Pope is once 
settled, he will remain here no longer. You can well 
imagine, that on many accounts this arrangement is most 
welcome to me. I now stand on firm ground. The warm- 
est thanks of my heart to God for it! Towards Easter, pro- 
bably, I shall enter on the position. 

4 


96 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington (in reply to Admonitions on the 
Necessity of Frequenting Society. 
Rome: 6th December, 1817. 


What society is it of which you speak? What society 
is in one’s power? What is one’s place in it? Is it in 
one’s own country ? &c.—are questions too wide for present 
discussion. I could write a treatise in time upon this, if it 
would interest you. Now, I shall answer only in regard to 
myself and Rome, after having stated a distinction to 
which I must appeal. There are some who have no fixed 
object in life, neither as to a certain acquisition of knowledge, 
nor to a certain practical application of it, and there are 
some who form projects in the manner of a conqueror with 
the objects of his ambition, or of a coquette with those of 
her vanity. Among those in the first-mentioned class are 
many dilettanti, who select, here or there, an object to think 
of and study, much or little, as they may find convenient ; 
yet their case is still entirely different from that of the 
class mentioned secondly. If the latter have indeed an 
inward call, and according to that have chosen and fixed 
on a given point for their study and reflection, which is 
worth a man’s whole life,—be it a dictionary like Johnson’s, 
or a Roman history like Gibbon’s,—then, however great or 
small their powers may be in comparison with those of 
others, they have to consider, as sole master and ruler of 
their time and occupation, the required mass of acquisition 
in all its extent, which is called for by their serious under- 
taking ; but, yet more, to cultivate a certain disposition of 
mind and elevation of spirit, such as can alone enable a 
man to overcome difficulties and distinguish between things, 
and so to follow out his purpose, as to raise and purify and 
instruct his own soul, and that of his fellow-creatures. 
Both directions of life seem to me quite natural; and the 
last as natural and as much belonging to humanity as the 
other; and he who follows this latter makes no more pre- 
tension to become a Newton or a Leibnitz, than a common 


Zr. 26] CORRESPONDENCE WITH MRS. WADDINGTON. 97 


soldier to become a Napoleon. Therefore I do not hesitate 
to declare to you, that I really and truly reckon myself as 
one of this class, not as a sign of distinction for particular 
talents, but only as a mark of the direction I have given 
to my life, and shall, with God’s help, keep to as long as 
T live. Ihad a fixed object in my mind from a very early 
period of life, and became conscious of it eight years ago, 
since which time I have never ceased to regulate the em- 
ployment of my time and the line I was to keep in life, in 
accordance with this same object; and my friends and my 
sister know the thread, that rendered plain and easy the 
way through the labyrinth of travel and occupation in those 
years. Whatever it be, therefore, it is no object of ambition, 
or vanity, or pride, but my need and my love. 

I wanted therefore, and I yet want, first, time and leisure 
for my studies; secondly, uninterrupted direction of the 
mind to those objects, and what is congenial to them; 
thirdly, firm courage and fresh hope in doing all this. 
Were it only the first that I wanted, time, I could try to 
gratify you. Having spent the whole day in my studies, I 
might give the evenings to the purpose of frequenting and 
receiving society—English, Italian, and German circles, 
balls, concerts, &c.—although I think I should consider 
myself unwise, thus to deprive myself and my wife of the 
only opportunity of enjoying each other’s company, and 
that of one or the other chosen friend or acquaintance. 
_ But the two other points make it impossible. I know I 
have it in my power to go every evening into company, 
pay attention to grandees and to ladies, and talk away time 
to the insignificant ; and I have done it. I quitted Uni- 
versity employment in 1813 on purpose to see and know 
the world. I have seen and known the most distinguished 
men in my own country, and, wherever I was, I frequented 
the circles of ambassadors, princes, and ministers: I was 
reckoned anuable by someyof their ladies, clever by the 
learned, and bon enfant by the men. This cost me some 


VOL. I. H 


98 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


time, but has been a great lesson for me. Almost always 
in these societies I was liked and valued for that which I 
ridiculed in myself, and I could not go on in this way with- 
out scorning myself and my fellow-creatures too, and with- 
out losing that respect for human life and the human species 
which is indispensable to me; even (I fear when I consider 
my nature’s frailty) without losing my natural horror of 
the custom, or rather disease, of talking without thinking 
and without interest. 

There are, I know very well, sometimes useful facts to be 
picked up in this way, sometimes even persons found, that 
may be good acquaintances beyond the moment; but the 
above-mentioned rulers of my hfe and time will not allow 
me to purchase them so dearly, particularly as I do not 
know any mortal so rich as I am in real friends and valu- 
able acquaintance, adding to all these an excellent wife. 
Therefore I thank God that just now I live here, having no 
place in society but that of a pilgrim. 


The date of Christmas 1817, the first that oc- 
curred in Bunsen’s married life, would seem the most 
suitable place for a retrospect of the manner of 
observing Christmas eve faithfully adhered to from 
first to last, and the feeling which actuated him in 
every arrangement. He had often described to his 
wife the joyous family-festival, to which he had been 
accustomed from childhood; and he pleased himself 
with decorating a tree, not the fir of the north, but a 
bough of the lauro nobile, or bay tree of the south, 
with tapers and fresh-gathered oranges, to give an 
idea of the ‘ German Christmas-eve,’—one of the gifts 
provided being an engraving of the ‘ Madonna della 
Seggiola’ of Raphael, so placed as to be brightly 
illuminated by the tapers on the tree, and pointed out 


ZET. 26] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 99 


as containing the loveliest infant representation of 
‘Him who brought good gifts unto men.’ The com- 
bination, thus made, of an image of the infant 
Saviour with a tree, hung with gifts in token of 
human kindness, was felt to be just and satisfactory. 
The explanation of this custom appears to be simply 
this, that the remembrance of the Redeemer, on the 
anniversary of His birth into the world, was brought 
in to sanction and sanctify the ancient German 
custom of hanging gifts on a tree, dating from the 
time of heathen life in the forest. A similar arrange- 
ment was made as regularly as the 24th December 
came year by year in the Bunsen dwelling on the 
Capitol, and in each successive locality. 


To his Sister Christiana. 
[ Translation. } Rome: 28th December, 1817. 


The consciousness of God in the mind of man, and that 
which in and through that consciousness He has accomplished, 
especially in language and religion, this was from the earliest 
time before my mind. After having awhile fancied to 
attain my point, sometimes here, sometimes there, at length 
(it was in the Christmas holidays of 1812, after having 
gained the prize in November) I made a general and com- 
prehensive plan. I wished to go through and represent 
heathen antiquity, in its principal phases, in three great 
periods of the world’s history, according to its languages, 
its religious conceptions, and its political institutions : first 
of all in the East, where the earliest expressions in each 
are highly remarkable, although little known ;—then in the 
second great epoch, among the Greeks and Romans ;— 
thirdly, among the Teutonic nations, who put an end to the 
Roman Empire. And now, nothing was ever so certain to 


H2 


100 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1817 


me in my life, as that the journey to India, had I been abu. 
to accomplish it, would have caused me to miss the attain- 
ment of my main point; not that the journey would have 
been without use in itself, but I should have been crushed 
under the load it would have brought upon me, and in 
the means to my great end the end itself would not have 
been reached. To what should that mass of means serve, 
what could T do with it, without acquaintance with Christi- 
anity ? To what should the circle serve, without its centre ? 
or an assemblage of all colours, without the light? At 
first I thought of Christianity only as something which 
everyone knows intuitively, like the mother-tongue, and 
therefore not as the object of a peculiar study. But in 
January 1816, when I for the last time took into con- 
sideration all that belonged to my plan and wrote it down, 
I arrived at this conclusion, that as God had caused the 
conception of Himself to be developed in the mind of man 
in a twofold manner,—the one through revelation to the 
Jewish people through their patriarchs, the other through 
reason in the heathen,—so also must the enquiry and re- 
presentation of this development be twofold ;—and as God 
had kept these two ways for a length of time independent 
and separate, so should we, in the course of the examination, 
separate knowledge from man, and his development from 
the doctrine of revelation and faith, firmly trusting that 
God in the end would bring about the union of both. This 
is now also my firm conviction, that we must not mix them 
or bring them together forcibly, as many have done with 
well-meaning zeal but unclear views, and as many in 
Germany with impure designs are still doing. But herein 
I erred, that I supposed one might understand heathenism 
by itself, and that as regards Christianity one needed only 
so much knowledge as might easily be acquired: its docu- 
ments and dogmas I supposed to be long known and under- 
stood, as far as understanding them was possible,—and . 
that that must be sufficient. Herein lay my error: for who 


ZEr. 26)’ EXTRACT FROM HIS JOURNAL. 101 


knows Christianity, but he who makes it the central point 
of his thoughts and actions ? who knows the Bible, but he 
who makes it his confidential friend, his dictionary, and his 
grammar? Thus it is also with the calling to a compre- 
hension of the highest things. To know Christ and the 
Bible, and to extend on earth the kingdom of Christ, is 
the duty of every man, more especially of him who is busied 
with the contemplation of the highest things. 

All this has been working in my head almost daily for 
the last six months, and little or nothing would I write on 
the subject, because I desired that it should ferment, and 
clear, and shape itself. Next to God, my wife has had the 
greatest influence on my meditations ; for as since 1814 you 
. by your life and your faith have directed my mind to the 
contemplation of Christ and His teaching, so has Fanny 
now, in the same twofold manner. We have read the Bible 
together, as she was always accustomed todo before: and 
her acquaintance with the Scriptures (of which she knows 
a great portion by heart), her faith combined with clearness 
of understanding, and the Christian spirit which regulates 
her life,—have pointed out to me more and more the treasure 
of all¢treasures ; and I see clearly, that without thorough 
and deep study of the Bible and of Christianity and its his-: 
tory, I can neither accomplish anything good in my other 
philosophical and historical undertakings, nor find for my- 
self tranquillity of spirit, and the means of quenching the 
thirst for enquiry, and for regulating contemplation. Where- 
fore I am firmly resolved to undertake this, and see how far 
the Holy Spirit of God will help me forwards. 


Extract from Bumsen’s Journal. 
(Translation. | Ist January, 1818. 
My heart is with thee, my beloved fatherland, in thy 
hopes, thy blessings, thy dangers! and with you, beloved 
friends, who have joined with me in calling upon God to 
save and relieve the oppressed land of our birth, and whose 


102 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1818 


wishes and prayers will accompany mine for the same land, 
now returning to life. O Lord! could I ever forget that 
which Thou hast committed to me to do, then Jet me not 
return to my country, nor see my friends again, nor even 
look again upon my beloved parents and receive their bless- 
ing! Iam conscious of Thy call; I feel strength in Thee ! 
When my heart humbles itself before Thee, and seeks to be 
sanctified in Thee, then I feel secure and firm; but the 
power of indolence and of pride is great. Yet I know that 
Thy grace is greater. 

Grant me, above all things, truth inwardly,—for without 
that I cannot behold Thy truth. Let me not externally 
enclose my heart with a factitious, applied form of faith. 
Forasmuch as Thy truth is the truth, man need not, on the 
way to it, be terrified by any truth. Let me bring every- 
thing into connection with this central point. Let me not 
strive to add decoration to that which is in itself sufficient. 
Let me despise the world, not from pride, or from a spirit of 
opposition, but from love to Thee, and therefore in love. 
Let me tame my rebellious heart ! 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
{ Translation. ] Rome: 24th February, 1818. 


There has been much mirth here latterly, and in my 
house, too. I was told by Ringseis, that the Crown Prince 
Louis of Bavaria intended to come in the evening (but I 
was not to know beforehand), when a set of our accustomed 
friends were collected. I could have wished for another 
day, in order to make some preparation, as one cannot 
command amusement on the spur of the moment ; but there 
was no help; . . . Isummoned together those I could 
find, Bekker, Cornelius, Eberhard, Miller, Rudolph Scha- 
dow, Rhebenitz, Schnorr, Ruscheweih, Koch,—at eight 
o'clock ; Ringseis then came, and began singing, so that all 
were roused to join, by the time the Prince entered with 


Er. 26] LETTER TO BRANDIS. 103 


Senzheim, when he was received with the song, ‘ Landes- 
vater.’ I must say that he entered into everything with 
much spirit, and in the best manner; desired to offer 
‘Germany’ as his toast, and, in less than half an hour, 
brought the whole company into such thorough mirth and 
noise, that the former occasion (of which he had heard, and 
therefore offered to join such a party) was nothing to this. 
Every one sought to contribute his own portion of opinion, 
likely to be welcome; but Cornelius had without doubt the 
advantage over the rest, in bluntly declaring the truth, 
and urging upon him ‘to continue, as now, trustful towards 
the whole German people,—valuing all persons of merit 
without exception —for instance, Jacobi.” To which appeal 
the Prince replied, ‘ But he is now become an old woman.’ 
Cornelius suggested that ‘ what a man has been and has 
done in former days, is that which should be remembered.’ 
The Prince, however, had the last word, in declaring that 
‘ Jacobi’s reputation was founded upon his good kitchen ’— 
after which Cornelius could not but let the subject drop. 
I proposed later the health of Niebuhr, as ‘a patron of 
German art, and a true friend of the fatherland ;’ on which 
Cornelius observed, ‘he who in silence provides for artists.’ 
The health of Eberhard was called for (he had played on 
the pianoforte some clever compositions of his own), as 
‘the general magician’ ([Hexenmeister), somewhat in a spirit 
of opposition to the Prince, who noticed Schadow more 
especially, and told him ‘he was the most graceful of sculp- 
tors.’ The Prince proposed many patriotic toasts—‘AIl that 
speak German must become German!’ ‘ Germanic feeling!’ 
‘Germanic union !’——with ever-increasing merriment of the 
whole party, which when he was gone (about twelve) grew 
wilder than ever. Previously, however, I had preserved 
composure enough to make my observations, and I am not 
as much enchanted as most of the others. Patronage of 
the fine arts is not sufficient}to constitute an heir apparent 
to a royal crown. To rouse with cymbals and trumpets a 


104, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [181 


Third Punic War will not be the rebuilding of a Holy Roman 
Empire. Behind the zeal for the fine arts there lies hidden 
a vehement power of self-will, and behind Germanism peeps 
forth decided Bavarianism. The prejudice against Jacobi 
proceeds from the ultra-Bavarian party : I gather this from 
the spirit of a pamphlet forwarded to the Crown Prince ‘on 
the renewal of learned monastic institutions,’ . . in 
which complaint is made of the ‘ introduction of arropauit 
strangers’ (i.e. Germans not belonging to Bavaria), ‘ to the 
mortification of deserving Bavarian men of letters, consum- 
ing in salaries thousands belonging by right to the country.’ 
May God grant that the Crown Prince may achieve the 
happiness of Bavaria, but the salvation of Germany will 
not proceed from him! Enough of this : we shall see what 


comes of it. 


Bunsen to Hey (on occasion of his having entered on the duties 
of his parish, and found a welcome beyond his anticipations). 


[ Translation. | 11th July, 1818. 

I like your having been so cheered by the sympathy of 
those around you. There is something init of a conscious- 
ness remaining from better times gone by, and perhaps of a 
better future in store, not only, in general, for the union 
of the German people into one nation, but, in particular, 
for their becoming Christians, and being combined into a 
Christian organisation. As Antseus felt himself strength- 
ened by contact with the maternal earth, so does your spirit 
experience a new buoyancy in uniting with your own 
nation and community. The feeling of singleness, of sepa- 
rateness, of a torn condition, is deeply roused, in order that 
by sympathy (the only means of healing granted to our 
nature) the soul’s craving may be satisfied. As the other 
nations of Europe have no conception of the power of inner 
life in the individual, which exists in Germany; so do we 
not possess the consciousness of collective life and force, ex- 
cept in such moments as you have experienced. The com- 


ZET. 26] LETTER TO BRANDIS. 105 


munion of spirits is the highest communion, and that of the 
saints in Christ the most perfect: and though to us invi- 
sible, it claims to be represented in the domain of reality. 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
[Translation. } Rome: 27th July, 1818. 


That. death is the awakening of the soul! to a higher life 
is my innermost conviction. Never do I become more in- 
telligible to myself than when I follow up that thought. It 
bids me, in view of actual life, to consider the divinity of 
the nature I share—urges me to quell the phantasms of the 
senses, to contend against indolence and inaction as the in- 
firmity of the soul; and preserves me in the clearer con- 
sciousness of existing under Divine protection, so that 
nothing can betide me, but in accordance with the will of 
God. And when I behold the nothingness of all human de- 
signs and endeavours which are not based upon the idea of 
duty—when I look upon the torn and worn condition of 
existence and the tangled web of the times in which we live 
—it becomes ever clearer to me that Divine Grace only can 
enable me duly to carry out and execute what I have pur- 
posed. Intolerable would it be to me, in the solemn hour 
of departure, to confess to myself that I had sought my way 
through life to death, impelled by any other consideration 
than that of duty: my very soul seems to fall into dust, all 
spirit and energy to be annihilated, by that thought. In 
the fulness of this conviction, I perceive how great is the 
degree of obscuration of the Divine nature in actual 
humanity, how powerful the evil principle. It must be 
something diabolical in us that makes us so easily lose this 
consciousness, this vision of truth: and most commonly, by 
a merely apparent life of the soul, by a false, substituted 
activity of intellect, through which we becume, in fact, mere 
deteriorated animals. To.express my wholc thought—the 
Oriental mind has been, from the first, attractive to me, and 
an object of longing ; solely on account of this especial cha- 


106 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1818 


racteristic, the grandeur of its perceptions with regard to 
the nothingness of human action, and the child’s play of un- 
ceasingly wasting powers, and of efforts after things earthly, 
and in things earthly. My error was the folly of seeking, 
in that which was without, that which only could be found 
within myself. God be thanked for present light, if I only 
faithfully seek after it. Let us unitedly act on this convic- 
tion—for the sake of this, despise everything else incon- 
sistent with it—in this find all repose! I have no other 
notion of my life for the future, but that it must consist in 
cropping off, and in concentrating. From such a consolidated 
centre alone can I venture with joyous hopefulness upon 
outward activity, which then indeed will become a need to 
me. I know not how to believe that such enormous good 
fortune should be intended for me, when I reflect that it 
might have been my lot to live and die in the confusion and 
scattering of thought and power that 1 behold around me 
. One of the diseases of our time is, the seeking to 
patch and mend the inward with the outward. As the 
want of community of feeling 1s to be repaired by unifor- 
mity of fashion in clothing, so the want of religion of the 
heart by the building of churches, or by reflections upon the 
political necessity, the sesthetic beauty, the deep-seated 
reason of religion! Wherefore religion, taken in by the un- 
derstanding, has become the food ae vanity in the common 
world, as a means of displaying the intellect which deals 
with it. 


The letters preserved contain, fortunately, such 
abundant particulars of Bunsen’s inner and outer life, 
that much addition would not seem to be required. 
The winter of 1817 and the spring of 1818 were full 
of bright interests, from Bunsen’s peculiar pursuits, 
from his daily intercourse with Niebuhr, and from the 
cheerful society which collected around him in his 


ZEr. 26] CROWN PRINCE OF BAVARIA. 107 


own house, chiefly consisting of his own countrymen, 
studying and cultivating the fine arts of Rome, with | 
some intermixture of travellers—for instance, Mr. 
Ticknor of Boston, and Mr. Thirlwall (now Bishop of 
St. David’s), who have preserved through life the 
friendship which Bunsen then inspired, not to name 
others. The presence in Rome of the Crown Prince 
of Bavaria (since King Louis) caused great excitement 
of hope among the artists, to several of whom his . 
munificent undertakings for the decoration of Munich 
gave occupation for years after. He liked to enter 
society without pretension, and was pleased, on 
more than one occasion, to join in the unconstrained 
cheerfulness of a party of young men in Bunsen’s 
house. 

We have already heard of his giving the toast: 
Was Deutsch spricht, soll Deutsch werden! (May all 
that speak German become German!) his mind and 
speech dwelling much on the hoped-for recovery of the 
German provinces of France, Alsace, Lorraine, &c. 
Towards Bunsen he was well inclined, but soon per- 
ceived that he was not the man for him, after an 
evening when, the spirits of all present being by dint 
of free discussion excited to the point of absolute 
openness and sincerity, Bunsen was led to assert the 
incontestable fact that the free cities of Germany, 
Belgium, Holland, and Italy,had been the real fos- 
terers of the fine arts, whose patrons were found far 
oftener among citizens than among princes. Al- 
though the Prince of Bavaria well knew that he did 
not share the blame of disregard of the fine arts, yet 
did he feel instinctively that he had to deal with a 


108 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1819 


free spirit, for whom, though art and poetry were 
much, yet science and philosophy were more ; and the 
Prince loved not literature and science, nor those 
devoted to such pursuits. 

The happy birth of the first child (a son named 
Henry) and a multitude of minute particulars relating 
to mother and infant, form the subject of joyous 
communications extending through many letters of 
Bunsen to his sister. From one of these extracts will 
follow: but it ought to be mentioned, as generally 
applying to all similar instances, that his tone of 
animated delight and of devout thankfulness never 
varied, and was never lowered, as is too often the 
case with parents, whose offspring bears a large pro- 
portion to the visible means of worldly provision. 
The birth of a child was matter of unmixed rejoicing 
to him, from the first to the twelfth; and he did 
not suffer his soul’s exultation to be checked by gra- 
tuitous apprehensions ; practically exemplifying the 
sense of a verse in his favourite hymn— | 


[Translation (by Miss C. Winkworth). ] 
Was unser Gott erschaffen hat, Still for the creatures He hath made 


Das wird er auch erhalten ; Our God shall well provide ; 
Dariiber wird er friih und spat His grace shall be their constant aid, 
Mit seiner Gnade walten. Their guardian every side. 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 


[ Translation. } Tivoli: 13th June, 1819. 
The departure of my beloved and brotherly friend Brandis 
has at last taken place, and for the first time these many 
years have we parted, in great uncertainty when and where 
we can meet again. His way leads first to Florence and 
Venice, then to Paris for the winter, from thence to Eng- 


JET. 27] LETTER TO BRANDIS. 109 


land; and in 1820 he intends to be at Berlin. May God 
grant me to see him again! But I have sorrowful antici- 
pations. He has worked this last winter much too hard, and 
his chest is more affected than ever; besides, in addition 
to his former excellence, genuineness, purity, and equipoise 
of character, he has become of late so heavenly minded in 
benevolence, inward peace, and clearness, at the same time 
so convinced of the near approach of his end, that I can- 
not avoid the apprehension of his not remaining much 
longer on earth. But my feeling on this point seems 
strange to me. He has so impressed me with the conscious- 
ness of his being made by death free from pain and grief, 
and of his ripeness for a free and spiritualised and endless 
existence, that it is, as it were, a legacy that he bequeaths 
to me ; and I do not experience such pain in the contempla- 
tion of losing him, as I should have expected. The passage 
into another and more glorious state, in which the wings of 
the soul shall be unfettered, seems so natural in the case of 
a spirit like his, that earthly sorrow withdraws before the 
brightness of the glory approaching. And yet no one 
would be so hard struck by his death as myself; for a 
friend in heart and mind, the confidant of all my efforts, 
thoughts, and contemplations, such as he has been, I have 
none beside him, and I shall never find one like him again. 
He left us on the 2nd May... .* 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
{ Translation. ] Rome: 6th April, 1819. 


.... All this (i.e. pursuits in life and principles in 
action) has come more clearer than ever before my mind 
in the parting from you, the only friend of my heart. We 
are one in conviction: whether we shall succeed in the 


* Professor Brandis survived many years, and out'ived Bunsen him- 
self. He died at Bonn, whore’he filled the Chair of Professor of Moral 
Philosophy, in July 1867. 


110 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1819 


performance, we know not; butI feel my mind so enlarged, 
when I think of all that binds us together spiritually, that 
never has the consciousness of endless existence come with 
more power upon my spirit, than through this separation. 
I dwell upon you with a cheerful heart ; and it is as though 
there were no barrier between us. 


To the Same. 
{ Translation. | 21st May, 1819. 

I must tell you of my visit to Tivoli, from whence I re- 
turned with Fanny yesterday. Those were the brightest 
days that I ever passed with Niebuhr, and will ever belong 
to the happiest of my life. Cardinal Consalvi had offered 
him the use of his house at Tivoli, and Niebuhr invited us 
to occupy one story in it as his guests. I walked out with 
him daily ; he was very cheerful, and enjoyed the situa- 
tion. Fortunately, I had found a book which treated of 
ruins not commonly noticed, indicating the place of the 
original falls of the Anio, ... At dinner in the evening 
we were always together, which I particularly rejoiced in 
for Fanny’s sake, who for the first time had occasion to 
know Niebuhr in his simplicity of greatness and his in- 
exhaustible animation. ‘Niebuhr, too, treated her with 
much consideration and kindness, and his wife was very 
good to both of us. To me Niebuhr was most encourag- 
ing; and I communicated to him all circumstances and 


questions. 


The visit to Tivoli, here recorded, remains strongly 
impressed in the memory of the one survivor of that 
cheerful party, in manifold images of pleasure from 
beauty of nature and season and from social inter- 
course, in which the mind of Niebuhr was unfolded 
in its variety of power and intensity of interest in ‘all 
the good, all the true, all the learned, all the wise,’ as 


ZET. 27] PRUSSIAN CONGREGATION IN ROME. 111 


it were expanding in sunshine, enjoying the external 
world, and at ease in spirit; not haunted by the 
gloomy visions of public or domestic calamity, under 
the influence of which its balance often seemed lost, 
and its native lineaments became scarcely recogni- 
sable. The richness and charm of his conversation, 
when under benign influences, cannot be so described 
as to characterise it justly : he was peculiarly distin- 
guished from other gifted talkers by commanding the 
whole range of subjects, to which he led attention, 
not being absorbed or trammelled by any one in 
particular. He guided the mind’s eye from one class 
of ideas to another, not confounding them, but reliev- 
ing one portion by another. 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
[ Translation. | 
Niebuhr meditates organising with Schmieder a congre- 
gation, and with that an establishment for the poor and 
sick, for Protestants are very ill off in the hospitals here.* 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 
{ Translation. | Rome: 24th July, 1819. 


. Schmieder is in truth a distinguished man, of 
rare Tielke Although bred up among unbelievers, he has at- 
tained to a genuine Gospel faith in Christ, as though he had 
been taught by Augustine and Luther only. His mild and 
benevolent demeanour, combined with a native dignity, 


* The mind of Bunsen took up and never gave up this plan, formed, 
but not executed, during the period of Niebuhr’s residence in Rome; 
and the hospital for Protestants of all nations exists to this hour on the 
Capitol, established and maintaised in the face of difficulties seemingly 
insurmountable. 


112 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1819 


inspires both respect and confidence, and his hearers are 
astonished at the preaching, in Rome, of a pure Christi- 
anity, such as they had seldom or never known at home. 
Others, however, consider him to be not sufficiently enlight- 
ened, and some take him for an enthusiast. For, instead 
of giving moral contemplations and sentimental rhapsodies 
on the beauty of virtue and the goodness of the human 
heart, his sermons treat of repentance and conversion, of 
sin and guilt, of the incapability of the mere human will 
to attain to regeneration, and the consequent necessity of 
faith in Christ’s all-sufficiency. This he shows forth in a 
double manner, first as faith in Christ, who has died for us ; 
secondly, as faith in Christ, who, living in us, must be the 
death of the old man, in order that the soul, having suf- 
fered with Christ-Man, shall rise again with Christ-God, 
and expand into a new life: thus having begun with peni- 
tence and pain, and passed through the gloom into light. 
Human nature hkes this not; but yet it is satisfactory 
to perceive how the congregation by degrees, great and 
small, in high or low station, gathers round him and feels 
an attraction in this kind of teaching, in the midst of 
Rome, and of pompous ceremonies and dead observances in 
churches decorated with gold and precious stones,—con- 
trasted with the small number collected to hear the pure, 
unmixed Gospel in the stillness of a simply-arranged place 
of worship, joining in prayer and in hymns and psalms of 
praise and thanksgiving. It is peculiarly satisfactory that 
my wife should make acquaintance with German theology 
and worship in this manner; for, as things stand in general, 
I was afraid for her of the effect of such acquaintance. . . . 
Were but all preachers like Schmieder, and all devotional 
arrangements like this—full of life and Christian spirit— 
then would the German evangelical church be the first in 
the world. 


ZEr. 28] LETTERS TO CHRISTIANA. 113 


To the Same. ; 
[Translation.] 18th September, 1819. 


. . . L have worked much, and done much,—for which 
first I thank God, and the instructive intercourse by Him 
granted to me with Schmieder. For since I attained to a 
clear consciousness, by inward experience, that there is no 
way of satisfying the needs of the soul, or tranquillising the 
heart’s longings, but by the inner life in Christ—aspiration 
after eternal blessedness, and consequent direction of the 
‘ind and all its powers towards God—TI am aware of an in- 
crease of power for the work of my calling, whatever it be, 
and of joy and spirit in performing it. Nothing external, no 
learning, no philosophy, no study of the various religions 
of the earth can help towards the soul’s blessedness and 
living consciousness of salvation: it is the inward man, the 
essential centre of existence,—after all that is accidental has 
been cast off,—that must with the grace of God accomplish 
the work. Since I have clearly perceived this, I seek no 
more the things of religion far off and without me: nor do 
I delay the seeking after the one thing needful, or suppose 
the finding it to depend upon the higher degree of enlight- 
enment, to be attained by this or the other acquisition of 
knowledge : (that is, it is my deliberate resolution so to do.) 
Human learning, although it cannot confer eternal blessed- 
ness, is and must be for man’s benefit ; for God Himself di- 
rects us to cultivate the intelligence He has given. 


To the Same. 
[Translation.] 27th November, 1819. 


. . . We live almost entirely out of what is called the 
world; and that has come about naturally, without effort. 
Throughout the day, I work undisturbedly, till dinner time 
(at this time of the year five o’clock). Not always have I 
leisure before, or after dinner’ to walk out for an hour. The 
evenings from seven o’clock are thus engaged :—Sunday 

VOL. I. I 


114 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1820 


and Tuesday we read the Bible with Schmieder, and he 
expounds to us and a small number of friends: we have 
already read through Genesis. Every Thursday we are at 
Niebuhr’s, who receives the Germans on that evening. 
Monday we remain at home, receiving any friends that wish 
to visit us, or to meet for the singing of ancient church 
music. Saturday, I have to work for the post, the hour of 
departure being late: therefore Wednesday and Friday are 
the only evenings when we are alone. Fortunately for us, 
the Niebuhrs have a similar plan of life, and that is a yreat 
means of preventing my being compelled to join in any arti- 
ficial relations of society. . . . My various labours have ad- 
vanced well in the latter months, and meet with Niebuhr’s 
approbation. ... 


To the Same. 


[Tranelation. ] | Rome: 7th January, 1820, 

. My last accounts from home will have filled you 
with grief for the ever-increasing weakness of age in both 
parents; you will be prepared for the intelligence of my 
mother’s blessed end! Yes, dear sister, she, the faithful 
and affectionate mother, is no more with us on earth; on 
the 27th November she expired, in full consciousness of her 
state, and having two days before partaken of the Holy 
Communion together with our father. . . . He has become 
more calm than he was at first ; would not hear of removing 
to the house of his son-in-law and daughter, saying that he 
would only be carried out of his own to the grave. He is 
quite satisfied with the care and attention of the maid-ser- 
vant; yet I anticipate that the separation and change will 
be more than he can long bear, and that he may soon follow 
the dear companion of his old age. May we all be reunited 
to her! for surely she is with God. Deeply painful though 
it be for both of us, to look forward to the dear father’s 
death in our unavoidable absence, yet have we the comfort 
of certainty that Helene and her husband perform every 


Zr. 28) LETTERS TO CHRISTIANA. 115 


duty of children towards him. . . . I received the letter 
telling me of my mother’s death, when on the way with 
Fanny to make provision for Henry’s pleasure on Christmas- 
eve. Thus does the fresh life, ever germinating and pro- 
gressing, form fresh bonds to connect us with earth, while 
the old stem dies away below! 


To the Same. 
[Translation.] Rome: 29th April, 1820. 


The last fortnight of my dearest father’s life was a time 
of less violent emotion, but of deep sorrow and constant 
lamentation over the loss of the companion of his age; and 
in the uninterrupted consciousness of his own near-approach- 
ing end. He comforted Helene, when she could not refrain 
from tears, on hearing him speak of death ; and often spoke 
of me and my wife. On Monday before his death he desired 
to rise from bed to pray for his grandchildren, as had been his 
custom morning and evening ; but he was too weak to sup- 
port himself, and was lifted back into bed. From that time 
the powers of life were rapidly failing, yet were the Wednes- 
day and Thursday times of lighting up; he spoke much of 
me and of you, and reckoned that a letter from me might 
arrive on Sunday. On Saturday afternoon he became 
speechless, but lay in full consciousness ; on Sunday Helene 
sat by his bed, and about two o’clock asked how he felt, 
and whether he suffered much. He replied by a slight 
shrugging of the shoulders; she took his hand and kissed it, 
looked again at his face, and he had expired! Helene was 
thereupon seized with fever, and confined to her bed, and 
saw the corpse no more; but when the coffin was borne to 
the grave, it was on the way set down before her house, by 
express desire of the beloved deceased. He had said to her 
a few days before, ‘I shall no more be able to come to you, 
dear Helene, but when they carry away my remains, they 
shall rest on the way before your window.’ The graves of 
the parents are side by side in the family-burial place ; 

12 


116 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1820 


Helene means to plant roses there, and I shall cause a stone 
to be put up. May God grant to both the fulness of 
blessedness ! 


General von Schack came to Rome in the beginning 
of the winter of 1820, accompanied by his exemplary 
wife and his devoted brother, then only a heutenant, 
but who since has attained high military rank. The 
journey was undertaken in consequence of medical 
advice, in the hope that a mild climate might work 
the wonder of restoration from a state of disorder, 
found to be beyond the reach of medicine—the so- 
called ‘ atrophy of the spinal marrow’ (Riickenmarks- 
schwindsucht), brought on by over-exertion in the 
great campaigns which led to the liberation of Ger- 
many. The complaint was already in an advanced 
stage, and the exciting nature of the air of Italy pro- 
duced its accustomed effect of exhausting the remains 
of constitutional strength in the struggle against it. 
At first in the house of Niebuhr, but later, from 
rapidly increasing weakness, only in his own dwelling 
could the conversation of Schack be enjoyed; and 
great was the enjoyment of listening to the animated 
flow of thrilling historical narrative, of communi- 
cation of results of experience, of thoughts ever for- 
cibly expressed, of judgments powerfully convincing, 
which poured forth, like ebbing life, from the invalid 
reduced to a shadow in outward appearance, though 
intelligence and memory still survived, when bodily 
powers seemed only to subsist for prolongation of 
pain. Schack had been in very early youth a favour- 
ite aide-de-camp of General York. He was on the 


ZEr. 28] | ENGLAND IN 1814. 117 


spot at the time when the latter took the great resolve, 
which turned the fate of Germany, viz. to join the 
Russians, and to direct the arms of his division 
against the very power to whose service he had been 
bound. Schack was the messenger chosen to bear 
the tidings of this event to the King ;—a service 
performed against his express will and commands. 
Most graphic was the description he gave of the 
wonderful and unlooked-for coolness, with which the 
King received particulars of victory on his own part, 
and discomfiture of the oppressors of himself and his 
country, which Schack communicated with his na- 
tural enthusiasm, receiving thereby, as he observed, a 
lesson of self-command for the future. From this 
man of worth, knowledge, and genius, Bunsen re- 
ceived invaluable information as to characters and 
conditions in the, as yet, unknown regions of the 
Berlin world, and always had occasion to find the 
testimony of Schack borne out by facts. 

One of the subjects upon which Schack loved to 
dwell was his journey to England in the suite of the 
Allied Sovereigns, in 1814, when having followed 
General York and his harassed army through the 
perils of the campaign in Champagne, he had enjoyed 
with them the glorious entry into Paris, and subse- 
quently the transit to the shores of that country, 
which was alone in Europe, because unvisited by war. 
They approached the British coast at the moment 
of the departure of Louis XVIII. from his place of 
refuge to take possession of the throne won for him 
by force of arms, when he was greeted by the royal 
salute of 101 guns from the fleet in attendance upon 


118 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1820 


his passage. The grandeur of the line-of-battle-ships, 
world-renowned, but seen for the first time by one 
and all of the illustrious party, and the accompanying 
reverberation of sound in the majestic cliffs of Albion, 
could not be described, or ever be forgotten. Then 
to land, and be received by the acclamation of an 
entire people, in all its ranks and degrees, throwing 
into shade all that could be done to honour the guests 
in ceremonial welcome—the joyous crowds which in 
every town and village on the road to London strove 
to outdo each other in demonstration of respect and 
gratulation—the great amount of female beauty, 
which blended in the mass, bringing ornament as 
well as enthusiasm—even the peculiar attire of a 
nation, long impervious to the fashions of France,— 
the neat close bonnet, from within which such bright 
vlances and cordial smiles greeted heroes of the war 
of liberation, and the tight spencer and minimum of 
drapery (so soon renounced under Parisian influence), 
—all were dilated upon as forming an integral portion 
of the churm of the scene, and detailed with the elo- 
quence of strong feeling. But ever did Schack return 
to the heart-cheering appearance of a highly-culti- 
vated country, with its trees of ancient growth, un-| 
scathed by the blast of war, its buildings in repair, 
its fields adorned with flocks and herds, and every+ 
thing testifying to domestic and popular well-being, 
without external mark of sacrifices made and losses 
incurred in the public cause. 

Although Schack had not been relieved from the 
burden of life, when Bunsen for the first time visited 
Berlin in 1827, it will be observed, from one of his 


JET. 29] CORRESPONDENCE WITH LUCKE. 119 


letters, that the last sight he obtained of the general 
quite crushed his soul, an affection of that powerful 
and well-constituted brain having been the last of the 
ravages perpetrated by disease. 


Bunsen to Liicke. 
{Translation. ] Rome: 9th June, 1821. 


The times in which we live seem to me most unsatisfac- 
tory : the minds of men are unfixed, lost in self-interest, 
sentimentality, and self-contemplation. What there is of 
strength and talent, or at least such as is free to display 
itself, is destructive and decomposing ;, while the principles 
fixed above all conflict of ephemeral personalities, the con- 
ditions of universal well-being, on which the salvation of 
Church and State depends, have become indistinct and un- 
intelligible to most men, because to obtain insight into them 
is a work requiring moral energy, sense of duty, humility, 
faith, and devotedness. Yet there is a great commotion in 
the elements of society ; and the saving Angel of the Lord 
descends only when the waters are troublea. The dispro- 
portion existing between the cultivation of the understand- 
ing and that of the moral capabilities is the fundamental 
evil; and the dissolution of social relations and of their 
reciprocal regard and recognition is a fact which leaves, 
humanly speaking, littleroom for hope. If it is yet time to 
save anything, my firm conviction 1s, that the main point 
everywhere to be striven after is the revival of all that was 
essential and real (as opposed to hollowness of form), as 
possessed by our forefathers ; or at least the keeping open a 
possibility of such renovation. 

That intoxication of self-worship, which, devoid of moral 
intensity of conviction or of clear conception of the prob- 
lems actually calling for sokition, anticipated of late the at- 
tainment of unknown degrees of intellectual grandeur from 
& consummation of learning and science,—has begun to 


120 ~MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1821 


give place to. the barbaric delusion which casts all knowledge 
aside, and reckons upon the breathing of the Divine Spirit 
through the ‘ waste and howling wilderness’ of the empty 
mind, like the blast through the apertures of a ruined hall. 

’s conclusions, in general, can be admitted only 
by such as are convinced as fully as he is himself, of the 
impossibility of the wonderful fact of redemption. I, on 
the contrary, am convinced that this fact is the especial 
foundation of religion and the essential object of faith, in- 
deed the sole unvarying one. All dogmas not concerned 
with facts may live out their term, but will have an end. 
I am convinced, that all that is analogous to those facts in 
the inward history of every regenerate soul is but a single 
broken ray of the original light, proceeding from, and sus- 
tained byit. This is true, and the converse is not the truth. 
Whoever does not accept the facts of Christianity thus, but 
looks upon them as mere symbols of the true and essential 
ideas originating in the individual human mind, is not a 
Christian, and still less a theologian. This is my line of 
demarcation : all discussion must begin on this side of it, 
for on the other side it would be absurdity. 





Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 
[Translation. | Michaelmas, 1821. 


I will begin my letter, beloved sister, with the intelligence 
that I, my wife, and children, are at this moment all well, 
—but, dearest, we have been otherwise! The Lord has 
visited us—and although in mercy, yet was the blow hard, 
for those who for so long a time had been allowed to 
flourish almost beyond the portion allotted to humanity. 
We had an angel among us, which has returned home! 
Our Mary began already in May to lose her colour and her 
indescribable animation; the change could only be laid to 
the account of teething. . . I resolved to take a lodging at 
Albano for July and August, in the hope of lessening to 
the children the debilitating effect of the summer-heat, and 


Ex, 30] DEATH OF A DAUGHTER. 121 


thither I conveyed my wife and the children, returning my- 
self to Rome, and reckoning upon coming over every Sunday 
to remain with my family until Wednesday—the Legation- 
business detaining me during the latter part of each week. 
Scarcely was my wife settled at Albano when our mis- 
fortunes began—Henry seized with fever and Mary de- 
clining day by day. I was detained longer than I had 
reckoned at Rome, and when I came again on the 14th July 
to Albano, I found the darling shrunk to a skeleton, and 
with an expression of suffering that struck me to the heart. 
Alas! I saw her not again but as a corpse. The last days 
of her life comcided with those in which the Papal Bull, 
the object of long negotiation, was to be expedited, and I 
was held fast in Rome by my duty. The account received 
the last day, before I could return, was somewhat comfort- 
ing ; the day before that, my wife had written that we must 
be prepared for the worst :—‘ She well knew that God would 
either preserve the child to us, or give us strength to bear 
the loss.’ The 22nd July was the anniversary of our angel’s 
birth, and the last day's intelligence had inexpressibly com- 
forted me. On that morning I received a letter from Brandis, 
in which he announced his betrothal with the object of six 
years’ hopeless attachment; and, rejoicing in this intelli- 
gence, I drove with a lightened heart from Niebuhr’s door 
tuwards Albano. The last hour of the way is up-hill, and 
as I could make the ascent more quickly on foot than in 
the carriage, I was accustomed to leave it at the foot of the 
hill, and to be met by my wife near the gate of the town. 
As I approached the spot, I saw her coming—lI flew to meet 
her—and saw in her eyes, what she constrained her voice 
to tell with composure, ‘She is with God.’ At noon, two 
hours before the completion of her first year of life, our 
darling had expired. How my wife bore up under such 
lengthened and accumulated distress, as well as fatigue 
(for the suffering child wokld not remain in any arms but 
hers), having the two boys to care for besides, one of them 
being also ill, and therefore troublesome, ... . and still 


122 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, (1821 


mustered strength to walk to meet me that I might be the 
less startled—would be incomprehensible, humanly speak- 
ing ! but God gave the power. What a sight was the corpse ! 
God granted it to be lovely, even in death—nothing could 
be more like an angel. But few hours might the remains 
be seen—in this country burial must follow quickly upon 
death. On the third day my wife accompanied me to the 
Protestant burial-place, to deposit the earthly remains of the 
dearest of our children; two hours before sunset we reached 
the spot. Schmieder and many of our friends had assembled. 
When Schmieder’s prayer and words of consolation were 
ended, and the coffin let down into the grave, I feared my 
wife would have sunk under the anguish, as she knelt—but 
at that moment I saw her eyes fixed in looking up into the 
glorious blue sky, which, like the temple of God, arched over 
us—and she has since told me that as she looked into the 
grave which received her beloved, the words of the Angel 
to the women at the sepulchre of Christ came with power 
into her mind—‘ He is not here, but is risen, —and she felt 
strengthened to turn her eyes from earth to heaven. Nie- 
buhr did not arrive till after the ceremony—embraced me, 
and wept aloud; I could only say to him, ‘ My father!’ for 
such I felt him to be. He had ever been fond of Mary— 
he threw himself down, and kissed the earth that covered 
her, exclaiming, ‘ Thou lovely child !’ Many were moved to 
tears by seeing the great man so moved, who in general 
can so entirely command his feelings. At length we tore 
ourselves away from the grave, and returned for the night 
to our solitary home; the next morning early I accom- 
panied my wife to Albano, where I remained a week by 
Niebuhr’s absolute desire. Henry’s fever returned the week 
after, and on the Sunday I brought over the physician of 
most repute in Rome, whose opinion at least relieved us 
from the fear of a malignant disorder: he ordered bark, 
which the good child took unresistingly. At length my 
wife’s strength gave way,—a double tertian fever, however, 


ET. 30] HIS SERIOUS ILLNESS AND RECOVERY. 123 


was soon subdued; and I left them, resolved to return to 
fetch them all finally back to Rome on the following Sun- 
day, 26th August (the second day of my full man’s estate),* 
and I came accordingly, but had been seized with fever- 
shivering an hour before reaching Albano. The two phy- 
sicians of Albano were both uncertain what to order—at 
length determined upon bleeding, which the surgeon could 
not accomplish from the smaller vein, and, conscious of his 
want of skill, dared not attempt it from the larger. At 
length on Tuesday, the 28th, an interval of fever enabled 
us to remove to Rome. A malignant fever ensued, accom- 
panied by an oppression of breathing, which rendered sleep 
impossible during the nineteen days that it lasted. My re- 
covery was most wonderfully rapid, and, although weak, I 
never felt in better health than Ido now. .. . 


The illness concisely recorded in the last letter 
was a critical event in the life of Bunsen; and his 
complete recovery from a disorder so virulent and 
obstinate appears the more surprising, as now the 
painful experience of his closing years and months 
has too well disclosed what was the form of death to 
which his powerful constitution was at last to give 
way. ‘The resemblance is evident between the dan- 
gerous symptom which attended the febbre perniciosa 
throughout, and the affection which proved the sign 
and cause of his death in the end. A sensation of 
suffocation came on with every attempt to drop asleep 
during the nineteen days’ fever in 1821; but the 
fever once conquered by dint of Peruvian bark, this 
symptom ceased, and natural slumber returned in its 
habitual perfection. The period that followed was 
one of vigorous health, and the winter and spring of 


* On August 25th, 1821, he entered the 30th year of his life. 


104 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1821 


1821-22 are marked in my memory as peculiarly 
calm and cheerful, owing to the health and happy 
activity of Bunsen. He was less drawn into society 
than had been the case in the winter of 1819-20, 
when the presence of Baron von Stein called upon 
him for a sacrifice of time, willingly made, though 
considerable, in order to show him the objects of 
interest in Rome, thus giving him an opportunity of 
important intercourse. Stein was well aware of the 
value of these conversations to his young friend, and 
therefore urged his coming to him for hours together 
day after day. With reference to these friendly invi- 
tations Bunsen once made the remark, that ‘ he could 
not have given way so regularly and constantly to 
the demands of Stein upon his time, had he not 
felt the man to be his King.’ This testimony to 
the inbred royalty of Stein’s nature he never gave to 
any other individual, of whatsoever station. 

In the winter of 1820-21, Bunsen may be described 
as having much at heart, and following up in the in- 
tervals of all other occupations, however engrossing, 
the study of ancient music, that is the canto fermo, 
or plain chant, which is the basis of the music of 
Palestrina, Allegri, and the ancient school. This 
style was imposed by a special law upon the Private 
Chapel of the Pope, by the Council of Trent, as being 
considered the only style suitable to the solemnity of 
the Papal presence; the plain chant being itself — 
founded upon the scanty fragments of the musical 
system of the ancient Greeks which have, in an intel- 
ligible form, been handed down to present times. The 
presence in Rome of Kocher of Stuttgard, a musical 


ZET. 30) HIS STUDIES IN ANCIENT MUSIC. 125 


composer as much devoted to the ancient science of 
music, and as desirous of thoroughly comprehending 
it as Bunsen himself, was of essential use to the 
latter. On the other hand, the help of Bunsen was 
indispensable to Kocher, in interpreting to him the 
living lore of the venerable Maestro di Capella, Baini, 
and the dead-letter documents of the ancient art, in 
languages otherwise inaccessible to Kocher. The ob- 
ject of Bunsen was, as ever, to bring about a reform- 
ation in his own country; being fully conscious of the 
deteriorated condition, almost, if not quite, universal, 
of that choral harmony which yet is the pride of the 
Germans, and believing that a renewal of the spirit of 
other times could only be possible by reverting to the 
original fountain in its purity. As with the hymns, 
the outpouring of ancestral piety, so also with the 
tunes, their appropriate medium of communication, 
he hoped to succeed in removing all corrupt incrusta- 
tions, so that when offered in pristine perfection, 
they could not fail to be accepted, and to supersede 
the unedifying collections, which, although in many 
cases imposed by force upon congregations in the 
latter part of the eighteenth century, have now so 
taken root, that those in the habit of using them 
rarely enquire after their merit or demerit, and have 
generally forgotten that they were not, in their 
present form, the legacy of the Reformers. 

Those who have had opportunity of judging of 
the zeal and love with which Bunsen pursued these 
undertakings, not from literary and scientific taste 
only, but in the hope af reviving Christian worship, 
might well ejaculate: Tantus labor non sit cassus [— 


126 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1821 


_ and it may be reserved for his grandchildren to witness 
_ the free adoption by congregations in his own father- 
land of the treasures which he never would have en- 
dured to see introduced or even recommended by 
supreme authority. 

After persevering, but unsuccessful, endeavours to 
collect amateur singers who should give voice and 
effect to the ancient compositions, Bunsen succeeded 
in prevailing upon the Director of the Papal Choir 
to allow a certain number of its members to come 
quietly, on a regular evening, to his house, where 
during the winter months for many years he and his 
family and their chosen friends enjoyed those works 
of ancient genius in a degree of perfection nowhere 
else attainable: while the singers, undisturbed, and 
not compelled to confine their performance within .- 
restricted limits of time, and pleased, moreover, at 
being the sole objects of attention, gave full effect to 
every piece. The few who were assembled to hear 
this performance will scarcely have heard the like 
again. 

Among the events full of interest to Bunsen and his 
wife in these days, were the creations of Thorwald- 
sen’s genius, which abounded in the years 1820, ’21, 
and ’22. Once they were fortunate enough to find 
him at the very moment of an artist’s rapture, whilst 
giving shape to the thoughts in which he had been 
delighting—in the act of adding the last touches to — 
the clay, in which he had modelled his statue of 
Mercury (since become the property of Lord Ashbur- 
ton). He dilated then upon the course of sensations 
and images, rather than of reflection, which had 


ZEr. 30] THORWALDSEN, 127 


brought him to fix upon the position of a sitting 
figure, in perfect repose, but in an evidently animated 
promptitude for action, as upon a subject to which 
he would delight in giving shape, if he could find a 
situation to furnish it with a full and intelligible and 
satisfactory meaning. ‘ And then,’ he said, ‘I hit 
upon Mercury, who, having played on the Panpipe to 
subdue Argus into slumber, at the instant of obser- 
ving that his purpose has been accomplished, is 
removing the musical instrument from his lips 
(which thus are not hidden or disfigured), and with 
the right hand is grasping the sword’s hilt, but, still 
motionless, is watching lest the eyes should open 
again.’ In this same period may be placed the date 
of the statue of Christ, as to which he expressed 
himself as wishing to represent the Saviour inviting 
all to come to Him, and reminding them of what He 
had done and suffered; but that, dreading any ap- 
proach to theatrical effect, he had aimed at the ex- 
tremest simplicity of attitude. The conception of 
Christian art was foreign to the mind of Thorwald- 
sen, and only in compliance with the wishes of his 
native Sovereign* did he steel his courage to the 
attempt, after having failed in accomplishing for the 
King of Bavaria a group of the three women at the 
sepulchre—the design of which he destroyed in utter 
dissatisfaction. After the execution of the statue 
of Christ, Thorwaldsen expressed his conviction that 
he had reached his culminating point, and would now 


* Christian VIII., King of, Denmark, before his accession, had 
visited Rome in the winter of 1820-1821, with his beautiful Princess, 
who has long survived him as Queen Dowager. 


128 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1822 


decline in art; ‘for,’ said he, ‘I never was satisfied 
with any work of my own till Iexecuted the Christ— 
and with that, I am alarmed to find that I am satis- 
fied : therefore, on the way towards decay.’ 

In a letter dated November 9, 1821, after relating 
with the usual detail, and with expressions of peculiar 
thankfulness, the birth of a third son—who received 
his father’s name Charles—Bunsen tells of his present 
occupations :— 

[Translation. ] 


I can give no better proof how well I feel, and far better 
than for a long time before my illness, than by assuring you 
with what spirit Iam geting on with my work. When I 
considered myself in my late illness on the brink of eternity, 
I enquired searchingly of my own mind what I ought to 
make beyond all other things the work of my calling, if 
God should grant the prolongation of my life; for I felt 
that the human span is soon past, and what is to be accom- 
plished within it must be carried through, or no good pur- 
pose will be served :—and upon my theological labours I 
rested at last, as the quarter in which my calling was to be 


sought. ... 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 
[Translation. | Rome: 30th March, 1822. 


. . . . My occupations have not been so much interrupted 
by the presence of strangers, as in the winter of last year, 
and I have been able to work much; but, alas! not so 
much as I had hoped in the matter I had most at heart. 
Three years ago, a friend of mine (Platner) undertook to 
write a ‘ Description of Rome,’ and the publisher consented 
to very high terms, on the understanding that Niebuhr 
would grant him assistance in the antique, and I in the 
modern, portion to be described and explained. When, — 


Ex, 30] CORRESPONDENCE WITH MRS. WADDINGTON. 129 


however, the work was laid before us for inspection, 80 
much was found imperfect that for our own honour we 
could not suffer it to go to press. Then I experienced that 
promise begets debt; I have now for two months done 
nothing but labour at rewriting this work ; and if in three 
months more, from this time, I shall have finished, I may 
be thankful. It is quite certain that I learn much in this 
pursuit, which is serviceable to my own objects besides ; 
but this shall be a warning to me never again to undertake 
anything not immediately belonging to my calling—one 
cannot otherwise accomplish anything in life as it ought to 
be done. This book is to come out next autumn (at least 
the first volume), and I shall take care that you receive & 
copy. The most valuable part consists in the share taken 
by Niebuhr, who will treat of the antiquities ; I am to con- 
tribute an essay upon the ancient Christian Churches, and 
a description of some of them, as well as of the Colosseum. 
I cannot tell you how I shall rejoice when this business is 
finished. 


Bunsen to Mre. Waddington. 


22nd May, 1822. 

I have not yet mentioned Mr. Niebuhr’s having been in- 
vested by the Emperor of Austria with the Grand Cross 
of the Order of St. Leopold, a dignity which entitles him 
to the privilege of being addressed as ‘mon cousin’ by the 
Emperor; which distinction Mr. Niebuhr owes to having 
given a proof of courage and right judgment which has 
been of most essential service to the Austrian army. The 
Austrian Government having miscalculated the amount of 
funds at their command in Rome (in short, their own 
credit with the bankers), it turned out that when the army, 
intended to put down the Neapolitan insurrection, arrived 
at the gates of Rome, the bills of exchange in the hands of 
the commanders were found’ineonvertible into ready money 
—few being the bankers who had any, and those few de- 

VOL. I. K 


180 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1822. 


clining the risk. In this extremity Mr. Niebuhr offered to 
Count Apponyi to draw in his own name upon the bank at 
Berlin, and give his word for prompt repayment—on hear- 
ing which the reply of the bankers was, ‘His name is suf- 
ficient for any amount ;’ whereupon he drew upon Berlin 
for 200,000 crowns, and on his personal credit raised 40,000 
for the needs of the moment,—on which the bankers took 
courage to furnish further supplies on moderate terms, 
instead of the double interest which they had hitherto 
demanded for the most trifling sums. On this occasion 
Mr. Niebuhr expressed himself thus to the Minister :— 
J’ai agi selon le principe qu'un ministre doit toujours contem- 
pler la responsabilité avec toutes ses conséquences a laquelle il 
est exposé, mais que cette réflexion ne doitjamars Vinfluer a ne 
pas encourir les dangers qu'il connait. The King has caused 
his high approbation of the step to be notified to Mr. Nie- 
buhr. The affairs of Italy may be considered as finally 
settled. The populace of Naples are now busy insulting 
and maltreating the Carbonari by whom they had been 
misled. 7 


In this and in other letters, mention is made of 
Lord Colchester’s presence in Rome, and the satis- 
faction of Niebuhr in making his acquaintance; also 
the disconsolate remarks of that eminent man upon 
his own country —as to which, when asked whether 
the Constitution would last, he replied, ‘ Scarcely 
sixty years.’ He showed himself as deficient as the 
greater part of English frondeurs in the due con- 
sciousness of the duty of self-defence for the honour 
of the great community in which their lot had been 
cast. He is mentioned as having assented with energy 
to the severe condemnation pronounced by Baron 
Stein and by Niebuhr upon the course of reckless ex- 


ZET. 30] NIEBUHR’S SYMPATHY WITH FRANCE. 13] 


aggeration of evil which marked the conduct of only 
too great a number of individuals of the higher classes 
both in and out of England, and which was taken by 
them as an indication of the actual decline and fall of 
the nation. The mind of Niebuhr was drifting from 
the temper of those earlier days in which he almost 
worshipped the high ideal of national merit (at the 
head of which was placed the younger Pitt), into that. 
condition of alienation, from England and dissatis- 
faction with her Government, which disturbed his 
latter years, and which the intercourse he sometimes 
had with English travellers only tended to confirm. 
Not long after this date, he attached himself so 
strongly to the Count de Serre, as to induce the 
belief that he was inclined to seek an ideal, wherewith 
to console himself in the characters produced by the 
Restoration in France. 

The maxim professed and acted upon by Niebuhr, 
as to incurring personal responsibility, was treasured 
up only too faithfully by Bunsen’s courageous nature, 
though he made no profession of the doctrine; and 
the time came when he had to pay the penalty of 
following up what he considered to be the right course, 
without being supported by those sympathies which 
justified the act of Niebuhr in the eyes of his Govern-: 
ment. 


132 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1822 


CHAPTER IV. 


VISIT OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA—NIEBUHR'S DEPARTURE—DEATH OF PIUS 
VIIl.— ELECTION OF LEO XII.——-LEOPARDI—RADOWITZ—GENERAL DORN- 
BERG—DEATH OF CARDINAL CONSALVI-——-CAPACCINI-—EGYPTIAN ANTIQUI- 
TIES —NEUKOMM. 


THE summer of 1822 was little marked by variety, 
but animated throughout by the stirring sense of work 
accomplished, with fulness of health and vigour for 
its accomplishment, and the cheerful consciousness of 
a, rebound from beneath the grievous pressure of the 
several and continuous afflictions of 1821. At the 
period of the year corresponding with that of Bunsen’s 
severe illness, some alarm was felt lest the old enemy 
should reappear, and he was induced in September to 
go to Albano for the sake of ascending the highest 
hills with Platner and others. A few kind lines on 
the evening of reaching Albano announced to his 
wife his having ‘ walked to Ariccia,’ though ‘the way 
was painful’ (the scenes being associated with the 
illness and death of the beloved child), and arranged 
with Schnorr to go the next day to Monte Cavo, and 
on the day following to Cori. 

The following letter, addressed by Bunsen to his 
sister shortly before Christmas 1822, relates to an 
occurrence which had important consequences for his 
after-life; for it brought him, for the first time, into 


ZEr. 31] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 138 


personal contact with his Sovereign and two Princes 
of the Prussian Royal Family. 


[Translation. ] Rome: 7th December, 1822. 


BELOVED SisTER,—Joy to you on the holy Christmas 
festival and on the new year! This time I can hope to 
tranquillise you quickly and easily, both as to my silence 
latterly, and as to the shortness of this letter. You will 
have seen in the papers that our King made a journey with 
two of his sons from Verona to Rome and Naples; you can 
therefore imagine that during his presence here I was suffi- 
ciently occupied from morning to night, and also had to 
bestow much time before and after that period on arrange- 
ments and commissions. The King himself was conducted 
by Niebuhr, the two Princes by me, in going about Rome,— 
instead of the Roman antiquarians, generally appeinted by 
the Papal Court to attend such high personages, and ex- 
plain all the remarkable objects. You may suppose that I 
took care duly to prepare myself to fill the office with 
honour, and I have done so.as yet to the satisfaction of all 
concerned. The young Princes are both very observant 
and intelligent, the one twenty-three, the other twenty 
years of age, and at the same time patterns of engaging 
and yet dignified demeanour. Prince William, the elder of 
the two,* is of a serious and manly character, which one 
cannot behold and perceive without feeling heartily devoted 
to him, and in all sincerity to hold him in high esteem. 
To-morrow the King returns from Naples, and six days 
later the Princes, so that towards the middle of the month 
we shall be left to ourselves. It so happens, that General 
Witzleben, the King’s aide-de-camp and confidential ad- 
viser, who has accompanied him, is the person whom the 
King had peculiarly employed and consulted in the arrange- 
ment and construction of the liturgical order of public 


* King Frederick William’s sotond son, his present Majesty King 
William of Prussia. 


184 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1822 


worship at Berlin (of which you will have read in the 
papers) because he considered him to be a man of piety 
and right feeling. I had obtained a copy of the newly- 
published Liturgy from the hands of another officer (Count 
Von der Grében, aide-de-camp of the Crown Prince) on the 
5th November. I set to work at once, the day after, to 
write two essays, in which I laid down my own funda- 
mental principles in short sentences, and sketched the 
elementary features of such a formulary, with particular 
reference to the Liturgy published by the King’s order. 
This was completed, more rapidly than I can myself com- 
prehend, in two days and a half: so that I could still 
before the King’s arrival write down my own arrangement 
for morning and evening and for the Sunday worship. 
Thus I could completely overlook and contemplate the 
ground on which I stood. I spoke openly to Niebuhr on 
the subject, and declared my determination to quit diplo- 
matic employment and return to literary life, and that at 
once, in the coming year. He took an early opportunity 
of speaking in general terms of me and of my work to 
General Witzleben, who thereupon entered into conversa- 
tion with me, In this interview I did not enter into the 
matter of my own writien essay, but rather spoke of the 
historical studies and researches which I had made, and 
gave utterance to that which would most further my pur- 
pose of making him perceive, that this was no work for 
the uninformed, or for beginners in learning, if a complete 
and comprehensive Liturgy, similar to that of the Church 
of England, was aimed at,—for that is indeed what is 
wanted, if the whole work of the union of the two Confes- 
sions is not to come to a stand-still. By all this I strove to 
prepare the way for the assertion (which I kept back till 
be should have returned from Naples) that the King’s 
Liturgy could only be considered as a provisional and 
experimental arrangement. Should he ask to know more, 
I should either answer by word of mouth, or send my essay 
after him to Berlin... . 


Er. 31] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 135 


To the Same. 
{ Translation. ] Rome: 11th January, 1828. 


.... My letter was written before the King’s return from 
Naples; he arrived on that very 7th December, and was as 
gracious as ever. The next morning I was informed by a 
gentleman in attendance, Mr. Albrecht, that I had to thank 
the King for an antique Etruscan vase, which he had or- 
dered to be sent from Naples, together with one intended 
for Niebuhr. That day I found no opportunity of express- 
ing my thanks ; but the King caused a book to be given me by 
the hand of Prince Wittgenstein (one of H. M.’s Ministers), 
written by a person of weight at Berlin in favour of the 
King’s Liturgy, that I might read it through ; and when I 
returned it the next morning with suitable acknowledg- 
ments, and the Prince asked my opinion, I said, ‘The 
principles of the writer seem good, but I should have ex- 
pected a more vigorous developement, after what is said 
in the preface to the Liturgy on the King’s idea.’ Next 
morning, but before [ had found the desired opportunity of 
expressing my thanks, Prince Wittgenstein met me with 
the intelligence that the King had named me Counsellor of 
Legation ; and when I offered my acknowledgments for 
his supposed recommendation, he replied that he was glad 
of my appointment, but that it was entirely the act of the 
King, because he was pleased with me. The distinction is 
very considerable. The King received my thanks most 
graciously, and uttered ‘words of satisfaction. The same 
day at the royal table (whither I was daily summoned, 
and placed just opposite to the King), on occasion of a 
question of the King’s, relative to some sacred music that 
he was to hear, I replied, and my answer caused the King 
again to speak, so that I found myself obliged to make an 
objection to his observation, which drew on our conversation 
to the end of dinner-time. After rising from table, the 
whole company were vastly more friendly in manner to me 


136 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


than before; and Humboldt (Alexander, the celebrated 
traveller) said that he and the rest were equally surprised 
and pleased at my having known so well how to treat the 
King, and to bring him into discussion without putting him 
out of tune, but rather the reverse. I had expected any- 
thing rather than this; because, as I had determined not 
to ask anything of the King, I had been careful in his pre- 
sence, with all respect and attention, to avoid uttering a word 
that should not be expressly called for. The same scene 
was repeated the day of the King’s departure. He spoke 
with me during the greater part of dinner-time on his 
favourite topic, Church matters; and I again took the 
liberty of pointing out faults in existing things; the King 
took all in good part, and said on rising from table, ‘On 
many points you are probably in the right.’ Thus closed 
this act. 

After the King was gone, reflection ensued as to what 
was to be done. To ask leave to resign, after the distinctions 
bestowed upon me, was out of the question; it would have 
been an offence, and an act of ingratitude. To request leave 
of absence for a time would have been feasible, had not 
the King just granted the same to Niebuhr for one year 
from April or May next; soon, therefore, perceiving that 
such leave, if I asked it, could not be obtained, ... I 
wrote to Count Bernstorff to express my readiness to give 
up the year’s leisure for a journey to England, which I had 
strong reasons of private interest to desire, in consideration 
of his Excellency’s willingness (of which I had been in- 
formed) to grant me an independent position as Chargé 
d’ Affaires during the absence of Niebuhr. 

On the 3rd January I received the Count’s reply (together 
with the patent as Counscollor of Legation signed by the 
King), giving his assent, and promising to take into con- 
sideration my just wish for leave of absence, when the year 
should be past for which the post of Chargé d’Affaires was 


to be granted. 


2x. 81] LETTER TO LUCKE. 187 


Bunsen to Lnicke. 
[Translation. ] Rome: 16th August, 1828. 

. If God grants me health and His aid, I intend to 
devote the next coming years to a persevering study of 
the Holy Scriptures, and writings relating to them. 

. . . I must confess to you the wish to make the histori- 
cal treatment of the conception of the Lord’s Supper the 
principal work of my life in future years. 


The burning of S. Paolo fuori le mure, 16th July, | 
was an event in the eventful year 1828 which Bun- 
sen and his family too closely witnessed for it to be 
passed over unmentioned. That venerable building 
was the object of frequent visits in the summer after- 
noons of that year, and the many beautiful pieces of 
medieval sculpture and mosaic with which it was 
decorated were individually valued, as well as 
habitually delighted in, by all. 

A few days before this disaster Pius VII. had 
fallen from his accustomed seat in his own room, 
breaking the hip-joint. From the first, probably, 
no reasonable hopes could be entertained of his re- 
covery, as the cure of the fracture at his advanced 
age could not be calculated upon, any more than the 
continuance of his accustomed health in a lengthened 
confinement to bed. The commotion of the public 
mind was great during the remaining weeks of his 
life; and although his was one of the few characters 
in high station to whose merits and qualities the uni- 
versal voice did justice, and the numbers were con- 
siderable who venerated ‘him as a saint, yet the virtual 
transfer by him of the cares of government, and of 


138 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. «(1828 


all political decisions to his chosen and trusted Con- 
salvi roused the feverish desire for change in various 
quarters, where private interests were concerned in 
the approaching struggle for power. 

Although at first Pius VII. suffered so little from 
his accident, that the calmness of his disposition and 
his perfect resignation seemed to extend to his bodily 
frame, yet after a while pain and fever came on. In 
his delirium he ceaselessly repeated psalms and 
devotional exercises, never failing te recognise Con- 
salvi, whom he always answered rationally. He had 
many intervals of ease, but at last it was a hard 
struggle to enter into rest, his chest continuing to 
heave with convulsive strength, after every other 
function of life had ceased. On Sunday, August 17 
(the 20th was the day of his death), he remonstrated 
with his physicians, ‘ Perché fate tante cose? Vorrei 
morire ; sento bene che Iddio mi vuole richiamare’— 
and his indistinct utterances were ever prayers for 
release. Consalvi watched by him for the last three 
nights,—his own health being in so precarious a 
state that it could scarcely be expected he would 
survive the anxiety and futigue, superadded to the 
load of hourly care and mournful anticipation. 

The remains of the Pope lay one day at the Palace 
of the Quirinal, and were then carried to St. Peter’s 
to lie in state three days longer, previous to the nine 
days’ obsequies. On the last and most solemn of 
these days, the glorious ‘ Requiem’ of Pittoni was 
sung, with still greater effect than in the’ Sistina, 
although by the same singers. The next day, 
2nd September, many were invited to the apart- 


JET. 32] OBSEQUIES OF PIUS Vil. 139 © 


ments of Cardinal Consalvi, in the Palazzo della 
Consulta, opposite the Palace of the Quirinal, to 
see the Cardinals walk in procession to the Con- 
clave. The two colossal statues with the obelisk 
appeared larger than ever from the opportunity of 
measuring their height with human dimensions. In 
front of them stood the noble fountain, recently 
formed by putting together the two vast fragments 
of granite, which, when we first came to Rome in 
1816, lay, and had lain for centuries, under the 
arches of the so-called Temple of Peace: the water 
springing high fell back into a lake rather than a 
basin, glowing and sparkling in the sun, while the 
statues rising aloft with the shady side towards us, 
cast a long line of shadow over the crowd. Behind, the 
cypresses rose above the wall of the Colonna gardens, 
and St. Peter’s loomed large in the distance,—the 
whole forming a picture which, as to forms and 
colours, light and shade, was as peculiar to Rome, as 
are the names of the objects connected with it. 
During the supposed vapid, but in fact animated, 
period of the Conclave, the two ruling ambassadors 
(Count Apponyi of Austria, Count Laval-Montmo- 
rency of France) were assiduous in giving occasion, 
by receptions twice a week, to meetings of the higher 
classes and of the diplomatic body, in which the 
Conclave gossip, the reports and rumours of what 
was possible or impossible, and the pasquinades, 
whether fresh for the present occasion, or borrowed 
from a time long past, were topics of exciting interest. 
The election of Cardinal della Genga, under the 
name of Leo XII, put an end to suspense, and dis- 


140 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


appointed all calculations. The nominees of the three 
Catholic Powers were set aside, their vetos fell upon 
sham pretenders, who had no essential support, and 
the College of Cardinals exulted in a choice which 
had not been dictated. 

The first measures of the new reign were wise and 
salutary, leaving nothing to be desired but continu- 
ance in the same direction, and faithfulness in carry- 
ing them out. They consisted in a remission of taxes 
(the amount of which was the chief cause of the 
unpopularity of Consalvi), and in a diminution of 
the causes of expense. The new secretary of State, 
Cardinal della Somaglia, being eighty years of age, 
was rather an ornament to the new order of things 
by his blameless life and ingratiating deportment, 
than an effectual support, being a remnant of earlier 
times, and familiar with persons and conditions long 
since consigned to the past: and the Council of 
State, composed of six Cardinals, for the real control 
and apparent assistance of the Secretary of State’s 
office, was a novelty which had yet to prove its 
capacity and efficiency. 

Many of Bunsen’s letters to Niebuhr at this time 
show that he felt the entire absorption in his official 
business, and the want of an assistant in the regular 
and mechanical office-work, to be very irksome, he 
having no help but such as his wife could give. 

The month of October, with its abundance of 
charm, came this year with a power of refreshment 
more than ever felt after the long period of unusual 
exertion during the season of heat. The revival of 
spring verdure after the regular rain at the begin- 


Er, 32] OBSERVANCE OF SUNDAY AT ROME. 14] 


ning of autumn combined with the annual merriment 
of the Roman population to complete the effect of 
scenery and weather: every villa and garden, every 
open gateway, every accessible space round every 
entrance of the town being full of bright faces and 
the varied colouring of young and old, all intent upon 
social animation as the duty of the present moment. 
Those who have known and loved Rome will have 
felt that the marked character given by invariable 
custom to the various periods of the year is most of 
all missed after departure from Rome; and only those 
who have experienced the effect of the regularly re- 
curring mandate, understood by all, though pro- 
nounced by none, to be serious at one time and gay 
at another, can be aware how far this apparently 
arbitrary custom can influence the mind, and how 
the absence of it may leave a void. To minds which 
are the very opposite in character and habits to the 
Italian mind, this fact may be made intelligible 
by consideration of the solemn yet cheerful calm 
belonging in busy England to the recurrence of 
Sunday, as it gives an opportunity for everything 
that is good and beautiful in life, while compelling 
in the whirl of things external an interval of relax- 
ation and rest to the over-strained faculties. This 
effect of Sunday is indeed wanting in the Roman 
system, and is a want ever felt there; but the advan- 
tage to the mind of marking the year’s divisions, as 
at Rome, finds elsewhere no due substitute. The 
enjoyment of October animation on the present 
occasion was enhanced by the opportunity given of 
additional intercourse with the excellent and valued 


142 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1823 


chaplain, Schmieder, who, after five years of faithful 
exertions for the benefit of the congregation he had 
drawn together at the Capitol, was now about to 
depart and undertake a new sphere of usefulness at 
Pforta, the celebrated public school near Naumburg 
in Prussian Saxony. It was a necessity that he 
should accomplish the journey and enter upon his 
new establishment with his young family before the 
beginning of the northern winter, and thus the early 
October days were the last of his stay, as also the 
last of that intercourse in which the two households 
had been so closely interwoven for years. 

The successor of Schmieder at Rome was Richard 
Rothe, whose presence was essentially valuable to 
Bunsen in furtherance of his favourite pursuits, as 
well as from his true friendship, and that rare gift 
of pulpit eloquence, only too little heard, although 
everywhere prized, wherever his lot had been cast.* 

The passing through Rome, in going to Naples 
and returning, of Baron Heinrich von Arnim and his 
admired wife (née Strick van Linschoten) must not be 
omitted among cherished recollections. Baron Arnim 
was attached to the Prussian Legation at Naples 
before the occupancy of that post in 1825 by Baron 
von Olfers. On both occasions of resting in Rome, 
golden opportunity was given for intercourse, in- 
valuable to Bunsen and his wife, who looked back 
upon these meetings with redoubled thankfulness, 
when in later years the Arnims in Berlin and at 

* Dr. Richard Rothe, Professor of Theology at the University of 
Heidelberg, one of the most influential men in the Protestant Church of 


Baden, died, after a short but very painful illness, Joved and respected 
by all who knew him, at Heidelberg, August 13, 1867. 


Er, 32] LETTER TO CHRISTIANA. 148 


Brussels supplied the absence of parental care to 
their sons, when sent away from their Roman home 
for school-education. 


Bunsen to his Sister Christiana. 


(Translation. ] Rome: the last. day of the year 1823. 


The year shall not close without my fulfilling a promise 
never forgotten, dearest sister! When you receive these 
lines, my fate will probably be decided, and possibly already 
known to me. 

... Lwrote to Count Bernstorff, that the provisional posi- 
tion in which I was placed was full of inconveniences ; that I 
must wish, should His Majesty name another Minister Pleni- 
potentiary, that that personage might arrive, with his Secre- 
tary of Legation, early enough in the year for the possible 
accomplishment of my departure before the summer. Should 
His Majesty, however, after Niebuhr’s retirement, not name 
another Plenipotentiary, but rather decide on having, as 
formerly, a Minister Resident at Rome, I would request 
that nomination, as a peculiar mark of favour, for myself. 
On both points I have expressed myself cautiously but 
clearly. If 1 am considered necessary to them they may 
give me a fixed position ; if not, they must let me go; I have 
no inclination again to be Secretary of Legation for one or 
more years. There is no doubt but that they will on no 
consideration whatever make me Minister Resident; it 
would be an unheard-of promotion, after which at home 
they could do no less than make me Counsellor of State. 
This day my letters arrive at Berlin. Meanwhile we are 
preparing for departure. To leave this metropolis of the 
world will be hard; one can never be satiated with con- 
templation here ; all other towns are as villages and parvenus 
in comparison with this queen of the earth. The die is cast, 
and the result lies in the Hand of God ; I am infinitely more 

tranquil since I have taken this step, and I am sure I shall 


144 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1823 


not regret it. You ask, what I wish? Dear Christiana, a 
man is and remains a child when he sets about wishing ; he 
is like a boat on the sea, between ebb and flood, never at 
rest. Sometimes, to depart seems altogether the thing 
needful ; sometimes, to remain is what appears most de- 
sirable. All the attraction of founding and establishing a 
settled life belongs to the latter; also the pleasure of see- 
ing you here, how should that not tempt me? Possessing 
power in public affairs is also something, when one has 
earnest practical objects in life. God will rightly overrule 
all!—-He who has so wonderfully conducted me hither, sup- 
ported me with a Father’s love, and overwhelmed me with 
benefits. ... 


With the last day of the year 1823, the correspond- 
ence with Christiana is closed to survivors ; inexpli- 
cable though it be, that she, who had taken care to 
preserve the letters safely up to that date, should 
have lost or destroyed those which she must have 
received both in his earliest years and throughout 
1824. In January, 1825, she performed the long- 
proposed journey to Rome, and became an inmate of 
her brother’s house during seven years and a half, 
returning to Germany, by her own strong desire, in 
October 18381. 

From the sketch already given of her very un- 
common personality, it must be easy to conceive that 
her presence was not a matter of indifference in a 
family : and it was accordingly, from first to last, a 
ceaseless trial, putting feelings and principles to the 
severest test, and acting as a ‘refiner’s fire’ upon all 
sterling realities. Thus the result of her close jux- 
taposition was to render the union of heart and mind 
of Bunsen and his wife more absolute than ever, 


ZEr. 32] CHRISTIANA AN INMATE OF HIS HOUSE. 145 


-instead of disturbing it. It must not be for a mo- 
ment supposed that Christiana was capable of any 
vulgar mischief-making ; for nothing in her was low 
or commonplace. She knew right from wrong with 
matchless perspicuity, and could teach the highest 
and deepest truths of Christianity to the edification 
of others, while utterly unconscious that her own 
religion was that of the understanding only. This 
condition of mind caused her to live in delusions, 
irremovable by any human means, but which for- 
tunately changed as suddenly and incalculably as 
the barometer. It need hardly be observed, that 
bringing his sister into his own house was one of 
the greatest miscalculations that Bunsen ever made, 
from which in fact at last he suffered himself most 
essentially, because her presence dispelled the darling 
illusion of his life, which had represented her to 
him as the model of female excellence, who was to 
crown the happiness of his home by her cherished 
influence, by love and supposed sympathy, more 
maternal than sisterly, and by the exertion of her 
rare mental gifts. His acquaintance with her had 
been made in a limited number of hours and days, 
within a few weeks, in 1814, and continued in rare 
and scanty correspondence on her part by letter: so 
that of her natural uncongeniality to him he had no 
opportunity of becoming conscious. If Bunsen had 
exclusively the pain of disappointment, his wife had 
the greater share to endure of the difficulties in 
carrying on daily life, and her existence during that 
period might be likened to learning to maintain an 
even yait on the tossing tide with a vessel of water on 
VOL. I. L 


146 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1823 


the head. But in the end, strange to say, she proved 
the more favoured of the two, and found, to her 
astonishment, that, when they were once separated, 
the love of Christiana was always flowing towards her, 
and was evidenced by the utterance of high approba- 
tion among friends in Germany. It seemed essential 
not to omit this indication of an important element 
in the life of Bunsen; who, as well as his wife, ceased 
not to love and honour the memory of Christiana 
during her absence, though, from the scantiness of 
her communication by correspondence, she was in a 
manner dead to them long before her actual decease 
in March 1850, when she expired at Baden-Baden, 
having nearly completed her 78th year. 

Although the eight years which preceded the en- 
trance of Christiana into the household had been 
interspersed with many trials, these had been but as 
passing clouds, overcasting for a time the habitual 
joyousness and buoyancy of existence, which assumed 
another character from that date, more analogous to 
that indicated by the expression ‘ work-a-day-world ’ 
—not so much owing to the load upon time, and the 
check to animal spirits brought upon Bunsen and his 
wife by Christiana herself, as to the difficulties at- 
tending the education of the growing boys. The 
name of their first tutor, an instrument of moral 
flagellation to parents and children, who arrived and 
departed with Christiana, shall not here be recorded : 
but rather shall the renovating influence be hailed of 
the youthful band of gifted and highly cultivated 
friends, whose faithful devotedness and real efficiency 
compensated for much previous misapplication of time. 


Er, 32] REFLECTIONS BY BUNSEN. 147 


These were men like Ambrosch, Abeken, Kellermann, 
Meyer, and Urlichs, who successively ministered in 
the most essential manner to the happiness of the 
much tried parents, by furnishing the best instruction 
to their sons. Herr von Sydow also, when Secretary 
of Legation, and Herr von Tippelskirch, when chap- 
lain, kindly granted a portion of their well-filled time 
to the same purpose. The temptation is strong, to a 
grateful heart, to take the occasion of enumerating 
the above honoured names, in order to dwell upon the 
special ground of obligation to each several friend : 
but it must not be given way to, because these pages 
have a higher object than that of becoming a chro- 
nicle of the many distinguished members of human 
society in various nations, whom Bunsen and his wife 
were privileged to call friends. 

The desire to comprise into one passage the episode 
of Christiana’s abode in the house of Bunsen has led 
on far beyond the date at which the communications 
ceased which have proved so useful for giving a pic- 
ture of Bunsen’s life in his own words: and the corre- 
spondence with Niebuhr happily comes in, to supply 
the void for a time. 


Reflections by Bunsen, dated January 18, 1824. 
[Translation. ] 


To-morrow, perhaps, I may know in what place and in 
what calling I am to spend the next following years. My 
position in the world probably depends upon the decision 
which I have sought, and which, no doubt, has already taken 
place. A real, living faith in God and His attributes, and 
in the ever active power and love of Christ, can in this crisis 
prompt but one utterance—God’s will be done! I have felt 

L2 


148 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1823 


on this occasion that one must act, not without previous and 
most earnest deliberation, but without being driven hither 
and thither by hope and fear. This state of composure I have 
this time been enabled to maintain, and therefore I shall 
always rejoice at having resolved upon the step I took. I 
believe that it will be approved by Niebuhr, although he 
would not have advised it in that form. 

Oh! the deep meaning of the simile of Nizza—‘ the single 
rock on the shore.’* To carry on public business without 
giving up study, and both without disregard of the duties of 
domestic and social life, is difficult, because most men are de- 
ficient in strength of character to accept the means neces- 
sary to each end, and clearly to discorn the connection of 
consequences with their causes. All depends upon making 
of life an art, to be perfected as such. 

How has God blessed me without any desert of mine! 
What a soul is that which He has joined to mine! what 
young minds has he not placed under my guidance! what 
friends and guides has He not conferred upon me! pre- 
sumptuous confidence on my part would be incurring the 
Divine Nemesis: despondency would be thanklessness. 
‘With my staff did I pass over this Jordan,’ and as a 
people may be my return! Seemingly destitute did I 
enter the gate of this city where I found my happiness! 

Should the world revive, it must be with and through the 


Gospel. 
O deck mit Vaterhand, 
Herr, unser deutsches Land, 
Sei ihm ein Schutz! ¢ 


* That single mass of stone, at the entrance of the old port of Nizza, 
furnished matter of meditation to Bunsen, when he first entered Italy, 
solitary, and with prospects vague and comfortless; more than once did 
he speak of the impression he received then, but no further written in- 
dication has been found of his meditations on that spot. 

t Verse of the song, to the melody of ‘God save the King,’ written 
by Bunsen and Gerhard for 3rd August, atid regularly sung at Villa 
Piccolomini on that day, being the birthday of King Frederick William 
III. of Prussia. 


ZEr. 32] GENERAL VON RADOWITZ. 149 


In 1824 Major von Radowitz accompanied Prince 
Augustus of Prussia to Rome, and thus an opportu- 
nity was given for the formation of a friendship which 
lasted through life and stood the test of essential dif- 
ferences of opinion, in persons so decided in convic- 
tions, so faithful to their principles, and so distinctive 
in their character, as were Radowitz and Bunsen. They 
met on the common ground of personal attachment to 
the Crown Prince (afterwards King Frederick William 
IY.\, of devotedness to his best interests, to his best 
self, and to the good government of the country, 
which they both understood to be monarchical, with 
full admission of freedom of thought and action and 
respect for the public opinion of an intelligent and 
cultivated people ; and each had too much respect for 
the other to invade that innermost sanctuary which 
they had not in common. They also shared the 
universal sympathies for everything human, from 
which intelligence of the highest order can never 
exclude itself: and the native warmth of heart in 
each was the source of mutual attraction and the 
medium of union. They had met first at Berlin, on 
the occasion of Bunsen’s long visit there in 1817, but 
then, it would seem, with the consciousness of an 
organic difference, which was merged eventually in a 
sense of mutual understanding, from the moment that 
Radowitz in a manner domesticated himself in the 
home-circle of Bunsen at Rome. 

Radowitz and Bunsen did not meet again until 1838, 
when the latter with his family rested for a few days 
at Frankfort on their journey from Rome to England, 
and were received with indescribable kindness by 


150 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1824 


Radowitz, then Prussian Military Commissioner to 
the Diet, and his admirable wife. On later occasions, 
when Bunsen was summoned by his royal master for 
consultation from England, he may be said to have 
crossed the track of Radowitz, as he was called upon 
in more than one instance to consider a subject and 
give an opinion in matters previously submitted to 
Radowitz by the King; but, however various may 
have been the impulses given by the two favourites, 
naturally so different, and however varying the lines 
that each may have drawn over the chart of the royal 
lucubrations, it would not appear that jealousy or mis- 
trust had ever arisen between them ; so strong was the 
conviction in each of the integrity and absence of all 
party-views or of any crooked line of policy in the 
other. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[ Translation. ] 4th April, 1824. 

May the weather be less extraordinary with you than it 
is here! For the last three weeks, the hills have been 
covered with snow, and for the last six days even the plain 
of Albano down to the Frattocchie. ... All Rome is 
hoarse, and many have been the deaths ; among others that 
of the Duchess of Devonshire, who did not become a Roman 
Catholic. 


The month of May, ever so beautiful in Italy, and 
peculiarly luxuriant in its vegetation this year, was 
the more enjoyed by an excursion to Tivoli, Vicovaro, 
and San Cosimato, for the sake of showing some parts 
of the country to the a chaplain Rothe 
and his wife. 


Er. 32] CORRESPONDENCE WITH NIEBUHR. 151 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[ Translation. | 11th February, 1824. 


The death of Cardinal Consalvi occurred on Saturday, 
24th January. A last effort of nature had taken place for 
his relief during his stay at Porto d’Anzo by a decided 
outburst of gout; but on Wednesday night, the 21st, he 
was seized with high fever, the affection proved to be on 
the lungs, and his suffering was severe ; he expired at one 
o’clock on the Saturday. Opinions are divided as to the 
immediate cause of the last illness, which might well be the 
great effort he made to preside at the first session, after 
he had been made Prefect of the Propaganda. He began 
to ail at once the following morning, and since Thursday 
was aware that death was imminent, although it was 
not supposed so near as was the case. On Friday he spoke 
on many subjects with Capaccini. On Saturday morning 
he sent to the Pope, to beg for a last benediction, which 
was sent by Cardinal Castiglione, the Pope (Leo XII.) 
being confined to a sick bed, and deeply moved by the 
death of such a man. When I went on Sunday to look at 
the body lying in state, I observed many Romans in tears. 
Never was the aspect of a corpse more beautiful: the so- 
lemnity of death had removed the accustomed artificial 
compression of the muscle about the mouth, and the gran- 
deur of the forehead and eyelids harmonised so entirely 
with the majesty of his repose, that the contrast with or- 
dinary surrounding faces made them seem brutish or in- 
sane. All his last acts and commands were admirable: in 
many points grand. He dictated to Capaccini himself the 
terms in which he would have his death announced in the 
newspapers, and reiterated the command, long since given 
in writing, that his grave and that of his brother in the 
church of S. Marcello (where their family burial-place is 
situated), should be marked no further than by a tablet of 
marble inscribed with their names, and the datesof birth and 


152 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1824 


death. He had before, as you know, deposited 20,000 
piastres for the great monument of Pius VII. in St. Peter’s, 
which Thorwaldsen is to complete in three years. The 
Propaganda is the inheritor of about 150,000 scudi; besides 
a few legacies to Franciscan convents impoverished by the 
revolution, small remembrances to friends, 3,000 scudi to 
the poor, a sum to be kept towards the building of a facade 
to the churches of Ara Celi, La Consolazione, and S&S. 
Andrea delle Fratte (let us hope that before the front of 
Ara Celi shall have been disfigured, the sum may have been 
well nibbled at—mangiato)! His servants are well pro- 
vided for. As the legacies to individuals are all insignifi- 
cant, we must forgive his leaving Capaccini only a table- 
clock and 200 ounces of silver. Capaccini would have been 
sent to Vienna as Internuncio, were it not that Consalvi’s 
successor cannot spare him. 


After giving many particulars of correspondence 
with the Minister, relative to his own position, he 
continues, in this letter to Niebuhr :— 


Let me now in all sincerity and earnestness urge upon 
you, that, in case no suitable prospect should open, you 
should consent to remain at least a year longer as envoy in 
your present position. Are you indeed quite sure that you 
will not, within that time, resolve to see Rome again P You 
have at least leisure, if you will not return directly, to 
consider the step. I resolved, after well considering the 
matter, to make a representation, in order to secure that 
another chief be not placed overrme. Meanwhile I have an 
incomparable opportunity of discerning characters and sen- 
timents; in my friends, the wish for my remaining ; in 
others, well inclined towards me, disapprobation of .my 
insisting upon leave of absence; in those who consider me 
civiliter mortuus, disregard or oblivion ; again and lastly, 
in... &., undisguised rejoicing at my stupid mismanage- 


JET. 32] CORRESPONDENCE WITH NIEBUSR. 153 


ment in going away ;—all which varieties I behold in juxta- 
position. 
to the Same. 
[Translation. ] 25th May, 1824. 

I have to acquaint you to-day that Capaccini’s promotion 
and the Anno Santo are announced on the same day! Itis 
wonderful, that Cappacini’s attaining the dignity of prelate, 
and the enclosure of the Protestant Cemetery, should both 
take place in the Pontificate of Leo XII.! Great is my 
rejoicing, that the only man (besides Bain1), as to whom | 
have the feeling of trustful friendship in this nation, should 
be admitted into the class of those who, if made use of at 
all, cannot be treated as subalterns ! 


In a letter to Niebuhr of June 29, 1824, is contained 
the first mention of a subject which was soon, and to 
the end of life, to engross so essentially Bunsen’s 
thoughts and time :—‘ What is your opinion of the 
“Précis du Systéme Hiéroglyphique,” by Champollion 
le Jeune? Italinsky possesses it. I have a kind of 
shrinking from it,—because the knowledge of Coptic 
is probably indispensable to its comprehension: and 
the system of signs would seem arbitrary and far- 
fetched.’ 

Bunsen’s attention had been constant to the dis- 
covery made by Dr. Young of the interpretation of 
hieroglyphics, from the celebrated trilingual inscrip- 
tion of Rosetta, preserved in the British Museum, and 
the written papyri of divers collections. The ‘ Lettre 
a M. Davier,’ by Champollion (1822), had further con- 
vinced him that there was a man by whom the silent 
Egyptian monuments ‘would at last be made to speak. 


154 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1824 


But in the summer of 1825 M. Champollion arrived in 
person, closely following his ‘ Précis du Systéme Hié- 
roglyphique des anciens Hgyptiens,’ which, though 
published in 1824, had then only just reached Rome. 
Bunsen having, with indescribable energy, soon 
grasped the principle, and mastered the details of 
that work, zealously followed the master in his inves- 
tigation of the Egyptian antiquities in Rome. Hach 
day brought new conviction to his mind, and strength- 
ened the confidence with which he stood out against 
the resolute mistrust and indifference of his own 
countrymen to the new line of enquiry. It would 
not be easy, at this distance of time, to give an idea 
of the animation throughout Rome produced by the 
undertaking to read the time-honoured obelisks, 
which had ever stood in lofty silence, and now at 
last were to be subjected to aspell that should compel 
them to tell their tale! Groups of enquirers were 
ever and again following Champollion, to gaze on the 
various monuments which, in the full light of the sun, 
or in the seclusion of collections, invited his atten- 
tion ; and Bunsen with his family having driven (about 
June 7, 1825) to the Villa Albani, it is recorded that 
‘nothing beautiful or Grecian could be looked at, but 
everything Egyptian was sought out, and a statue 
having been found with hierpglyphics round the back 
and the base, was drawn at once, and the same 
evening shown to Champollion, who found therein the 
name of Sabaco, who flourished between the time of 
Sheshong and that of Sennacherib. Then was the 
name of Tutmoses, predecessor of Rameses, spelt out 
on the great obelisk of the Piazza del Popolo; and 


ZET. 32] JULIUS SCHNORR. 155 


then was the name of Antinous revealed, and the 
consequently modern date of the obelisk before the 
church of the Trinita dei Monti. 

Among the travellers visiting Rome, Lieutenant- 
Colonel Willisen and Count York, son of the renowned 
Prussian general, added much to the social pleasure 
in Bunsen’s house; and the short stay of Her von 
Olfers and his engaging wife was the occasion of the 
first entrance of Neukomm while in search of Olfers 
(with whom in Rio Janeiro he had formed an inti- 
macy), into a house of which he soon became the fre- 
quent and ever-welcome guest. 

The value in which Julius Schnorr, the painter, was 
held by Bunsen will be evinced by the correspondence, 
some extracts of which will follow. He lodged during 
several of these early years of Roman residence in 
an upper portion of the Palazzo Caffarelli, not then 
absorbed by the increasing family of Bunsen ; while 
Augustus Grahl, also gladly and almost daily seen 
in the evening assemblage of friends, exercised his 
beautiful art of miniature-painting in a separate wing 
of Palazzo Caffarelli, later occupied by the Counsellor 
of Legation, Herr von Sydow. Schnorr left Rome 
for Munich in 1825, and Grahl in 1830, to settle at 
Dresden, carrying on, each in his own way, the 
practice of the art to which they were devoted. The 
fresco-paintings of Schnorr, in Rome and at Munich, 
need no mention: the fine cartoons in which they 
originated are in the collection of the Grand Duke of 
Baden. 

In the early part of 825, the presence of Mr. Ha- 

milton and his family, on their return to England, 


156 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1825 


after long occupying the Legation at Naples, was 
a matter of great pleasure and interest to Bunsen. 
His friendship for Bunsen, originating on this present 
occasion, continued to the last days of his life, which 
closed not long before Bunsen bade farewell to Eng- 
land in 1854. But Mr. Hamilton’s visit to Rome 
was memorable on another account, as he met 
Bunsen’s wishes in bringing before the English 
Ministry a matter for which he had hitherto failed to 
find a channel of communication—namely, the present 
favourable opportunity for obtaining transcripts of the 
documents relating to English history in the archives 
of the Vatican. Bunsen had in this a merely scien- 
tific interest; but with him scientific interest was 
ever active, and he had not ceased to take pains for 
its furtherance since he had found, with his friend, 
Dr. Pertz, the treasures relating to German history 
which had been obtained, by permission originally of 
Pope Pius VII., through the amiable and intelligent 
Monsignor Marini, Prefect of the Archives. Dr. 
Pertz remained long in Rome, as agent to the asso- 
ciation organised by Baron Stein for discovering and 
collecting all unpublished materials relating to Ger- 
man history ; and aletter of Bunsen’s to Niebuhr will 
show that he had already exerted himself to bring 
before the King of Prussia and: his Ministers the par- 
ticulars he had ascertained as to the existence of 
Prussian documents, copies of which were to be made 
for the royal collections of Berlin. And now he re- 
joiced in the prospect of entire success, for Mr. 
Hamilton was more than willing to accompany him 
on his visit to Marini, and inspect the specimens of 


ZEr. 33] ENGLISH STATE PAPERS IN THE VATICAN. 1567 


MSS. which the latter was permitted to show in his 
own room and his own presence, but which he was for- 
bidden to carry into any other place: whereupon Mr. 
Hamilton, seeing at once the value of such an oppor- 
tunity, demurred not a moment to authorise Marini 
to begin immediately making the transcripts (all exe- 
cuted by his own practised hand), and to consign them, 
volume by volume, as fast as they were finished, into 
the hands of Bunsen. The business lasted long, for 
the quantity of documents was great, and the oppor- 
tunity proved a golden one for the good Marini— 
whose sole and great embarrassment was, how to 
reconcile his Roman conscience with the determina- 
tion of Bunsen not to accept of a percentage on the 
instalments periodically arriving from England—a 
percentage, as Marini insisted, ‘customary in every 
rank of life; according to all rule and order; a mere 
matter of justice, which one who is the medium of 
obtaining a great advantage for another has a right 
to share!’ It was a work of time, but accomplished 
at last, to convince him that Bunsen was really in 
earnest. More than once did Mr. Hamilton write, 
from London assuring Bunsen of the satisfaction of 
Ministers at this precious addition to those over- 
flowing materials for the most interesting of all 
national histories, which, in their totality, have as 
yet been but partially studied, and are now, for the 
first time, on the way to a condition of security, 
by a salutary reform as to localities and arrange- 
ments. | 

An offer was madé to Bunsen of a splendid gift, 
consisting of a copy of ‘Rymer’s Foedera,’ in recogni- 


158 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1825 


tion of the pains he had taken in this matter ; but it 
was declined with gratitude. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[ Translation. | Rome: 18th December, 1826. 


... . My conviction is firm and ever clearer that, when- 
evercontemporary minds shall renouncethe mere play of self- 
indulging fancy, and of self-reflecting speculation, and turn 
to the solemn and sacred concerns of humanity, and endea- 
vour to discern the track which God has made throughout 
its course,—finding (as they will) that the present world will 
neither hear nor heed, or at least that they are themselves 
losing courage and confidence to work out what heart and 
conscience are impelling them to do, they must of necessity 
have recourse, both in speculation and in research, to the 
records of the past, and with their Aaiuwy court the speech 
of the historic muse. Upon this anticipation only can I 
found a hope of the formation of a truly great historical 
literature in our fatherland. Could Burke have written in 
Germany ?—to die, or enter a madhouse, would have been 
his alternative. And who can get beyond, or without, the 
conditions of common humanity, providentially imposed 
upon us? Does not the contemplation of human matters in 
their apparently subdued historical form belong of necessity 
to that chorus of spiritual harmony of which we all perceive 
but single tones P Resolved as I am to drag on under the 
yoke of the present, until a High hand shall loosen me from 
it, yet will I seek to hold myself upright by faithfully hold- 
ing fast the life of a higher calling, interrupted in mani- 
fold ways though it be; the unity of which with present 
interests I have never lost sight of, although I have never 
yet given expression to this to my satisfaction. Content, 
if in this fast rushing existence I can succeed in hewing 
single stones of the building for which I have determined to 
labour, I look ever with more longing to the time when I 
may be enabled in my own country to bring together and 


Er. 34] ENGLISHMEN AT ROME. 159 


arrange, well or ill as it may be, the separate portions 
towards the attainment of my life’s practical object, and 
thus lighten my full heart of its burden. ... . 

There are many here who speak of a new 1688 as if they 
really desired it. But a new 1517 must come first! My 
refreshment from general society is, as ever, in that of the 
English. 


It has been justly said, that ‘a common interest in 
the great objects among which you are living, and 
their stirring and expanding influence on the mind, 
render the interchange and community of thought 
in Rome more easy than anywhere else;’ and this 
was in a high degree experienced in the delightful 
intercourse which in the case of Bunsen formed the 
foundation of invaluable friendships, for the begin- 
ning of which no other place could have afforded 
such favourable opportunities. This is particu- 
larly the case with Englishmen of high station, who 
in their own country are absorbed by the manifold 
duties of their calling and position, but in Rome 
become more accessible: and a few words must be 
allowed to mark the pleasure of those breakfast- 
parties which so frequently used to alternate, in that 
most charming part of the Roman year, the quiet 
month after Easter (during this year 1825), between 
the Capitol and the Palatine, on which latter hill the 
late Mr. Pusey resided in the Villa Mills; and many 
are the names of the now departed who might be 
enumerated as adorning those meetings. To the 
social cheerfulness of the breakfast hour Bunsen 
was as sensible as if ke had always been used to it, 
although the custom of assembling one’s family and 


160 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1825 


friends at breakfast scarcely exists in Germany ; and 
even in the latter years of declining health, it will 
ever be a precious remembrance to his sons and 
daughters, how bright and full of power and of 
cheerfulness was his appearance at breakfast,—how 
he would talk over public events,—and how he would 
pass from one subject to another, taking special 
delight in the free exercise of intellect in the freshest 
hour of the day. 

With the spring of 1825 dates the beginning of the 
intimacy of Bunsen and his family with Neukomm, 
the composer, a friend truly valuable and valued, 
and ever and again an inmate of the house, to the 
end of his long life, which closed in 1858. His 
remarkable course of existence, his journals and 
recollections, will be made public (it is to be hoped) 
by his intelligent nephew : and the picture of a track 
which crossed through such various conditions and 
states of society, and as it were bridged over nearly 
one-half of the past century, and quite one-half of 
the present, might prove matter of lasting interest. 

That remarkable and exceptional period of Neu- 
komm’s life during which he was the chosen inmate of 
Talleyrand’s house, wus still going on when he made 
his journey in 1825 on leave of absence, in order to see 
Rome; he had accepted the nominal post of maitre 
de chapelle to the Prince, who, detesting music, and 
desiring never to hear a note, yet wished for the 
company of Neukomm as a conversational member of 
his household—proving thereby his appreciation of 
the cultivated intelligence, the knowledge of men 
and things, which gave Neukomm the power of 


Er. 34] NEUKOMM. 161 


understanding Talleyrand’s meaning, to whatever 
subject he might. direct his observations. After 
Talleyrand’s establishment as ambassador in London, 
this connection was broken off, in consequence of a 
suggestion of the Duchesse de Dino that Neukomm 
should become regular music-master to her daughter, 
—an office of drudgery which he never had, in any 
position, undertaken ; and he in consequence resigned 
his post, and saw Talleyrand no more :—for Neukomm 
understood well, in the gentlest manner possible, how 
to preserve his independence. From the winter of 
1840, when he was long a welcome inmate in Bunsen’s 
house at the Hubel, near Berne, the various musical 
talents in the family, then in the process of unfolding, 
were incalculably indebted for their just development 
to his advice and directions, his rousing, encourag- 
ing and guiding hand: but his kind attention was 
always freely given, never solicited. 


Contemporary Notice, 1825. 


Neukomm must be gifted with more senses and powers 
of perception than other mortals; these he employs with 
consummate skill to give pleasure and avoid giving pain to 
those whom he likes; and even those whom he dislikes, or 
takes in utter aversion, he never offends. No cat walking 
between glasses, without touching them or causing any 
vibration, ever exceeded him in the talent of going his own 
way among all sorts of clashing characters, without dis- 
lodging any one, or discomposing the frame of society. Once 
having known him, it is impossible merely to feel a liking, 
or a commonplace wish to see him again: it is a real want 
of his society that is experienced, a consciousuess that the 
place he filled can be filled by no one else. These are ex- 
pressions to use only to those who know him,—to others 


VOL. I. M 


162 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1826 


they would seem too paradoxical. His affectionate disposi- 
tion, his power of strong attachment, stand in strange con- 
trast with a faculty of calculation that never was exceeded : 
never, probably, did he do anything but what he intended, 
and never was he taken by surprise. The apparent contra- 
dictions in him are numerous: all that is most exquisite in 
art or nature is to him matter of intense enjoyment ; and the 
female character, and the character of children (the flower 
and quintessence of creation), are his study and especial de- 
light, while for the Creator he can find no place—a fearful 
fact, only ascertained after long and close observation: for 
he avoids speaking out, as a general rule, but more particu- 
larly anything to shock his friends’ opinions. He is a deeply 
unhappy person; the keen susceptibility of his feelings is 
misery to him, for no wound that his heart ever received can 
ever heal: the arrows of death, the deaths of his friends, are 
ever rankling there, and remind him of that termination of 
his own existence of which he wishes not to think. One 
evening when he was leaving us late, having worked him- 
self into deep melancholy by extempore music, he used (in 
answer to something said about dreaming) the words of 
Hamlet, ‘When we have shaken off this mortal coil, what 
dreams may come ?’—by way of a question : to which Bun- 
sen replied, ‘ Then, I think, we shall awake from all dreams.’ 
—But Neukomm did not assent. 


The friendship. and habitual intercourse most 
closely interwoven, and for the longest period, with 
the domestic life of Bunsen, was that with Augustus 
Kestner, at first attached to the Hanoverian Lega- 
tion, and afterwards its chief as Minister Resident: 
whose name will have been noticed in a letter from 
Ernst Schulze of the year 1817, with a recommenda- 
tion no less just than strong in its terms, but in 
which the subsequent intimacy cannot be said to 


Br. 34] KESTNER. 163 


have originated, as it rather resulted from a spon- 
taneous and ever-growing consciousness of mutual 
appreciation, and of sympathy in many, and perhaps 
most, of the interests in the life of each. The small 
space which can here be granted to the affectionate 
mention of some few of the friends whom Bunsen 
loved and cultivated, is very insufficient for a due 
record of Kestner, or for giving expression of his 
especial value to each and all in the family of Bunsen : 
and his detailed biography ought to be undertaken 
as a monument to his memory by the hand of friend- 
ship such as, according to the saying of Gdéthe, 
“alone can be competent to measure and estimate 
the full circumference of his worth and merit.’ 


Die Freundschaft ist gerecht,—sie kann allein 
Den ganzen Umfang seines Werths erkennen. 
Tasso, of Gothe. 


164 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1825 


CHAPTER V. 
PRUSSIAN MINISTER IN ROME. 


BUSINESS OF THE LEGATION-—-COLLECTION OF HYMNS-—JOURNEY TO RERBLIN 
‘CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE-— RECEPTION BY THE KING — 
SOCIETY OF BERLIN—-THE CROWN PRINCE—NEANDER-——-DR. ARNOLD. 


Tue benefit was great, and duly valued, which was 
conferred upon Bunsen by the appointment as 
Secretary of Legation, in the autumn of 1831, of the 
youthful Rudolph von Sydow, whose rarely-equalled 
qualifications for a post which was no sinecure (even 
though for many years Bunsen had carried on the 
exercise of its duties together with those of chief) 
were gratefully remembered by Bunsen throughout 
his official life. 

The first portion of Bunsen’s official life was most 
peculiarly favoured in the efficiency of the helpmates 
granted to him: for the successor of Herr von Sydow 
in 1885 was Guido von Usedom, the object of especial 
desire and request on the part of Bunsen, who en- 
joyed his assistance in office only for two years, but 
his faithful friendship, throughout all changes, for 
life. In Usedom the Crown Prince also (afterwards 
King Frederick William IV.) took a great interest. 
This was occasioned in the first instance by an 
account which the young man, not yet in office, and 


JET. 34] PRUSSIAN MINISTER AT ROME. 165 


living at Munich, immersed in literary objects, took 
upon himself to give of the condition of a large 
portion of the “inhabitants of the Zillerthal in the 
Tyrol, who had been persecuted by the Archbishops 
of Saltzburg as incorrigible Bible-readers, and driven 
from home by the Austrian Government, after declar- 
ing (April 2, 1834) that they must either become 
Romanists or settle in Transylvania. To these 
meritorious fugitives the King (Frederick William 
III.) granted liberal help, with lands for their per- 
manent establishment at Erdmannsdorf, his private 
property in Silesia. Of the living Usedom, now 
Prussian Envoy at Florence, it would be out of 
place to say more than that, as he was always among 
the most cherished and admired of Bunsen’s friends, 
so he keeps faithful and true to the memory of the 
dead—in accordance with the well-known Ryder 
motto—‘ Servata fides cineri.’ 

To make the trials comprehensible with which 
Bunsen had to struggle in later years, some com- 
ment must be made on the peculiarities of his posi- 
tion. In doing this frequent recourse will be had to 
quotations from a paper most just and impartial, 
although from the hand of an attached friend, better 
acquainted with the facts and more competent to 
draw inferences than the writer of these pages. It 
is the article by Bunsen’s dear friend Abeken, in 
Unsere Zeit, for March 1861. ‘For the development 
of the ideas which were ever working in Bunsen’s 
mind, Rome,—where, ag Gdthe says, “we read the 
world’s history from the centre towards its circum- 
ference,’’— presented a peculiarly favourable position. 


166 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1825 


The advantages of the deepest retirement were 
united to those of the most animated and cosmopoli- 
tan society. Life seemed to be passed on an isolated 
pinnacle, against which the long-heaving swells and 
currents of ages might break, but at whose feet the 
smaller waves of daily occurrences, which elsewhere 
absorb so much intellectual energy, played unheeded : 
but they only seemed to add to the mighty influences 
which this capital of the world, and necropolis of 
Europe, exercised upon the mind.’ 

This condition of seclusion from the every-day 
interests and commotions of opinion in the German 
world had a great charm while the lengthened absence 
lasted, but led to much misapprehension on the part 
of Bunsen, and to a breach in his German conscious- 
ness, which rested on what he had known or con- 
ceived of his own nation while living in the midst of 
it, so that he had at last to admit of not being fully 
aware of the changes which had taken place, both in 
circumstances and in opinions. 

But if Bunsen could not be said to know his own 
country and the spirit working in it, till he was 
again a resident within its boundaries, still more 
serious was the misapprehension prevalent in Ger- 
many with respect to him: and great was the mis- — 
trust, and singularly varying in its character, with 
which the fatherland regarded that truly German 
heart, which ever clung to her best interests and 
would have given its best blood at any moment for 
her benefit. — 

Of the many occasions of being misunderstood, the 
most important, if not the first in date, was the time 


Fér. 34] HIS JOURNEY TO BERLIN. 167 


when he first published the results of his hymno- 
logical and liturgical studies. 

The varieties of opinion professed by those whom 
he met in familiar and friendly intercourse gave rise 
to many conflicting suspicions and suppositions re- 
garding him, amongst which the most common was 
the reputation of belonging to the hierarchical party 
in Church matters, and to the anti-liberal in politics, 
and of beiug a colleague and tool of those who were 
suspected of intending to force on the country an anti- 
Protestant, medisval and Romanist scheme of doc- 
trine and discipline. At the same time, the Romang 
and their clergy were under no mistake about him; 
they never found an opportunity which would have 
induced them even so much as to make an attempt 
at proselytism, though he lived in habits of friendly 
intercourse with many pious Roman Catholics, de- 
votedly attached to their Church, and who never 
looked upon him as one of its enemies. His own 
disinclination to a system of aggression, quite as much 
as his official position, kept him aloof from hostile 
controversies, and even from such a complete exposi- 
tion of his sentiments as would have precluded much 
misunderstanding in other quarters. 

In September 1827, Bunsen set out on his first 
official journey to Berlin, being summoned thither 
ostensibly for the purpose of conveying to its new 
abode in the Prussian Museum a fine picture by 
Raphael, the ‘ Madonna della Famiglia di Lante,’ 
which he had been fortunate enough to purchase tor 
his Government,—in reatity, to give advice in weighty 
matters of State. It will be seen by the extracts 


168 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1827 


which follow, that complications had arisen with some 
dignitaries of the Roman Church in Silesia and other 
portions of the Prussian dominions, for which all 
Bunsen’s intimate acquaintance with the ways and 
practices of the Papal Government was needed to 
suggest remedies. In the present case and for the 
time being, the negotiations ended in peace. 


Bunsen to lis Wife. 
[ Translation. | Florence: 4 p.m., 27th Sept., 1827. 


I must announce to you my happy arrival here, a quarter 
of an hour ago, and wish you good morning before I seek 
a few hours’ rest. True, you will not get these lines any 
earlier, but I shall have greeted you in spirit, and can lie 
down with more tranquillity. 


12 o’elock. 


T am so overwhelmed by my feelings, that they would 
overflow in tears, were it not forbidden to a man to shed 
them. My first walk was with Dr. Nott, to the Loggie di 
Orgagna. You remember that it was here, on my arrival 
in June 1816, that I read the letter of Mr. Astor, announ- 
cing that all was at an end between us, and the letter from 
home, telling of the hopeless decay of my parents and of the 
suffering state of Christiana. It was here, on the stone seat 
placed along the inner wall of the Loggie, that I struggled 
through a mixture of sorrow, pain, and disappointment, 
while the cold crowd of strangers passed before my eyes; 
and at last resolved to remain, and await Niebuhr and 
Brandis. Huitherward, therefore, did my heart first draw 
me; and with deep and thankful emotion did I think over 
the eleven years that lie between me and that time—the 
hopes fulfilled, the enjoyment of happiness never anticipated, 
the amount of undeserved blessings, and, lastly, my present 
journey. Then I went to see the much talked of picture 


JEr. 36] LETTER TO NIEBUHR. 169 


which I found just suited to my feelings and present temper 
of mind; then to the Madonna del Gran Duca, &c. I close 
with love and blessings upon you. How I think of you I 
cannot say, but you will understand from what I have 
written. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[ Translation. ] Wittenberg: 11th October, 1827. 


... Youask whether I am satisfied with the position which 
you congratulate me on obtaining, with your accustomed pa- 
ternal kindness. I must answer in the negative, for 1 am 
so thankful to possess the appointment, that I cannot allow 
myself the expression of mere satisfaction, Had I time to 
enter into particulars, you would perceive from the expla- 
nation of my deeply-felt conviction, that I duly estimate the 
whole of the unexpected and undeserved good fortune which 
has fallen to my lot; but, as it is, you will rest satisfied with 
my assurance that it isso. That with this full conviction 
I yet could wish for another position, is to be explained by 
the desire which I did entertain, and yet entertain, for the 
formation of a bridge towards an establishment in my native 
country... . I entreat you to be convinced that I have no 
need of being an eye-witness to be aware of the considera- 
tion in which you are held, not only in Bonn but through- 
out civilised Europe, and should I even behold you on the 
throne of Leibnitz,* or at the helm of the State, not by a 
single degree would my feelings of veneration towards you 
be increased. . . . I have entered upon a rich inheritance 
of personal esteem and confidence, and of affairs incompar- 
ably commenced, initiated, and prepared. I have a proud 
consciousness of having, as a grateful son, cherished this 
paternal inheritance conscientiously and to the utmost of 
my powers ; and if I have been, from time to time, so fortu- 
nate as to have added interest to the inherited capital, yet has 
it been my pride to acknéwledge to everyone everywhere to 


* Je, as President of the Academy of Sciences ut Berlin. 


170 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1627 


whom all the praise belonged. I speak this in self-justifica- 
tion, and not by way of bousting ; and you will surely receive 
and feel it to be the utterance of unchangeable gratitude 
and unvarying veneration. . .. I hope soon to be able to 
offer you my best thanks in the shape of the ‘ Description of 
Rome,’ the two first volumes of which I have actually con- 
ducted through the press. I left Savigny on the 3rd at 
Verona—could I but say well, oreven better! ... I bring 
you letters from Leopardi and Capaccini, or else I shal] send 
them on from Berlin; but I hope certainly to come for a 
few days to Bonn... . I must not omit to mention the greet- 
ings with which I was charged at Munich by King Louisa 
for yourself, your lady, and Marcuccio. The post-horses 
are waiting. I go with a joyful heart, without demands, 
without wishes, without hopes, and without fears, towards 
Berlin, and I hope to leave it on the lst November. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin: 12th October, 8 p.m. 


Here I am, having arrived ou the day and at the hour 
that I wished, in health and eheerfulness, after a journey of 
more than two hundred German miles, which appears on 
the retrospect as though made for pleasure alone, varied as 
it was with the sight of churches, palaces, pictures, and 
statues. Almost twelve years ure gone since I left this royal 
city in the same hour of night, to travel the same road, into 
the wide world, full of hopes, dreams, and plans, which are 
now recalled tomind. When I opened the window to look 
into the lighted street and endeavoured to recognise objects 
almost forgotten, my heart overflowed with thankful emo- 
tion, and in my solitude I felt the need of writing to you ; 
but you know the feelings with which I now look into the 
future, neither demanding nor wishing aught but to pre- 
serve the happiness granted to me, and to become worthy 
of such gifts as God has bestowed... .. 


Er. 36] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 171 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Sunday, 14th October. 


Yesterday I had hoped to write more, but was exhausted 
by the multitude of visits, and by witnessing the wretched 
state of General Schack.... I had wished to hear 
Schleiermacher preach, but had to wait at home for the 
expected messenger from Altenstcin to rid me of the 
charge of the picture ; instead of which came a messenger 
from Paretz, announcing that the King invited me to the 
family festival of to-morrow. The distinction is all the 
greater, as none of the officers of the Court are there. I 
am to drive thither with Alexander von Humboldt, and shall 
thus have the best society possible on our four hours’ drive. 


To the Same. 
{ Translation. ] Friday, 19th October. 


What a long interval! Yesterday I missed the post, 
but at least I shall now be able to write more particulars. 
On Monday (15th) we drove early to Paretz, and saw at once 
the Princes Wilhelm and Karl (who received me with the 
greatest friendliness); then Prince Albrecht, the Duke of 
Cumberland, the Prince of Hesse; to each of whom I was 
presented by Humboldt. Then appeared the King, who 
was most gracious, enquired after all in Castel Gandolfo 
(although I had never mentioned the fact of our residy 
there), and then, in presence of all, bestowed upon me hiffh 
commendation. I was presented to his kind wife, the 
Princess of Liegnitz, and received the gracious command to 
wear plain clothes instead of my uniform. As I was turn- 
ing round I met a gentleman unknown, who approached 
me with the words, ‘Surely you are Bunsen?—I am the 
Crown Prince ;’ to him, therefore, I was not presented. The 
Raphael could not be at,hand to be shown, but I had fortu- 
rately obtained at Perugia a fine drawing made from it by 
Rist, shortly before his death, with a view to its being 


172 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1827 


engraved, and this I had with me, thus occasioning much 
pleasure to the Crown Prince. 


To the Same. 
[Translation. ] Berlin: Tuesday, 23rd October, 1827. 


I have got over the worst of my unsettled state, by 
having taken now a private lodging, and a room in which 
I can work and be quiet, as well as one for visitors; and, 
moreover, have met several persons with whom I feel my- 
self no longer a stranger, and so can enjoy cheerful evenings. 
One is Steffens, whom I knew through his intimate friend 
General Willisen; another, Count von der Grodben, the 
son-in-law of Dornberg. Tholuck has been here, and is 
gone; but I came to an understanding with him on many 
' points, and I shall hope to see him again in Halle; his 
work on Oriental mysticism, the most important of the 
kind, I shall bring with me home as his gift. . . . 


To the Same. 


[ Translation. | 
[Conclusion of letter begun 3rd November, 1827. ] 


Before I write my chronicle I must tell of this evening 
(Tuesday, midnight). Having worked till noon, then dis- 
cussed matters of public business till three, dined and 
rested, I went at half-past four to Grdében, refreshed myself 
- the sight of those dear faces, and accompanied the 

unt to the Sing-Akademie, where ‘O Roma nobilis!’ and 
some of the choruses in Judas Maccabeeus’ were performed 
by two hundred voices. During the chorus, ‘ Give us free- 
dom or death!’ I thought of the Greeks confronting the 
Turkish artillery undismayed, and the heroes of Missolonghi. 
At seven, the music was over, and I could not pass by the 
faintly-lighted room of poor Frau von Schack. Alas! how 
often should I be there, were he capable of conversation ! 
She was pleased with my visit. I heard his voice and 
wandering effusions in the next room. At nine I went to 


Er. 36] BUNSEN AND THE SILESIAN NEGOTIATION, 173 | 


Strauss, who had seven students of theology with hin ; 
they come on two evenings in the week for what are called 
homiletic exercises; some point of Christian doctrine or 
history is treated of and explained or discussed. This had 
begun before I arrived, when I was introduced at my 
request..... 


From the above extracts of Bunsen’s letters written 
at this time, no idea can be formed of the large 
amount of correspondence which he accomplished, 
even though his head and hand might well have 
claimed the privilege of being excused from letter- 
writing, when the public business, which could not 
be avoided, was enough to absorb all his time and 
powers. The troubles in Silesia, which forced them- 
selves upon the notice of the Government of that 
time, ought to have made a greater impression than 
was the actual effect produced, by preparing their 
minds for the coming struggle: for it was there, 
within the Prussian Monarchy, that the first attempts 
were made for the resumption of that aggressive 
policy by the Church of Rome which, partly from 
universal apathy, partly from consciousness of weak- 
ness, had slumbered under Protestant rule during * 
eighteenth century. An account of the part which 
Bunsen was obliged to take in the Silesian negotia- 
tion could not be given without access to the several 
archives of Rome and Berlin, and belongs to the 
province of a future historian; but so much is in the 
remembrance of the writer of these lines, that Bunsen 
had a high opinion of the abilities and of the piety 
of the Prince Bishop sof Breslau of that day, who 
with Archbishop Sailer, of Regensburg, and the 


174 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1827 


Archbishop of Cologne, Count Spiegel zu Dezenberg, 
belonged to that group of dignitaries of the Church of 
Rome who expected from peace and good-fellowship 
with all that call themselves Christians, the only real 
furtherance of the best interests of Christianity. 
They alone, to whom the rules and practices of the 
Court of Berlin are thoroughly known, can be aware of 
the degree of distinction attending Bunsen’s reception 
there, of which the extracts given furnish but a slight 
notice. The King, with the true fidelity of his cha- 
racter, showed him in every instance the continuance 
of the favour which he had demonstrated from the 
very first, at Rome, in November 1822, and appeared 
to make a point of marking him to every class of 
persons about the Court, as ‘the man whom the 
King delighteth to honour. The hint was under- 
stood by one and all, causing demonstrations of 
good-will to be showered upon him so universally, as 
to render it difficult for him to retain all his self- 
possession ; but he possessed much of the instinct for 
discriminating between those who encouraged him as 
a possible instrument for furthering their own views 
d those, again, who were sincerely well inclined 
towards him as a promising public servant, because de- 
voted to the interests of the State. The Crown Prince 
(afterwards Frederick William IV.) delighted from 
the very first in his society, and poured forth upon him 
the abundance of his brilliant intelligence and ten- 
derness of heart in the frequent evening invitations, 
when Count Grében was generally the only person pre- 
sent, and Bunsen was called upon to communicate all 
the results and projects of his study and research. 


fi. 36] HOW ESTEEMED AT COURT. 17 


But, although Bunsen failed not to remind himself 
(as may be seen in a few passages), that present cir- 
cumstances could not be reckoned upon as durable, 
there can be no doubt that the general result of this 
first sojourn at Berlin had the effect of confirming 
and stimulating the sanguine temper of his mind; 
and such numerous instances of unprecedented suc- 
cess, by convincing him of his own uncommon power 
of personal influence, might well lead to so much 
confidence in himself with regard to overcoming diffi- 
culties in future, as to prepare the way for painful 
disappointments in days yet distant. These in- 
stances of success concerned not himself or his 
personal interests: on the contrary, he at all times 
carried even too far the repugnance to make repre- 
sentation of his own needs, which were ever increas- 
ing in proportion to the widening space he was now 
occupying among his fellow-creatures. The only 
pecuniary gain obtained by him this time at Berlin, 
and upon which he was compelled to insist, was the 
regular appointment of an assistant, or office-clerk, 
the expense of which had been borne by himself, to 
keep the registers of the Legation and the corre- 
spondence with the dioceses in Prussia and the Roman 
Government offices: a large amount of work, all 
accomplished by himself under Niebuhr, and till 
very recently, since his departure. Thus was this 
visit to Berlin in many ways a crisis in life, a retro- 
spect of which shows the gradual formation of those 
clouds and storms which overcast and disturbed a 
later period. 


176 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1827 


Not to anticipate, the extracts shall be continued, 
and what further elucidation can be given will follow. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. } Berlin: 11th November, 1827. 


. . . The King has issued his commands to me to super- 
intend the restoration of the Raphael picture, which as yet 
has been in his private room, contemplated by him with 
daily satisfaction. At the same time important papers 
were transmitted to me from the Cabinet, which it will be 
no small undertaking to study throngh and comment upon. 
Thus I have had to go to Count Bernstorff, and solicit a 
prolongation of my leave of absence, which application he 
received and granted with evident pleasure. .... On 
Friday, the 9th, I met at the King’s table Herr von 
Plessen, Minister in Mecklenburg-Schwerin, who expressed 
a wish to see the Solly collection of paintings purchased 
for the Museum, but as yet closed to the public. ... . 

In the evening I was invited by the Crown Prince: 
Prince Wilhelm and a Prince of Brunswick were there, 
Ancillon also, and General von Knesebeck. At first and 
till nine o’clock Rome was the subject of conversation, and 
plans, &c., were brought out and consulted; but then the 
affairs of Greece and Turkey were discussed, and an ani-— 
mated and warm debate came on between the two Princes 
(the Crown Prince and his brother) on the one side, and 
Ancillon and Knesebeck on the other. The views and feel- 
ings of the two Princes were admirable, and the Crowu 
Prince developed them with such eloquence and enthusiasm, 
judgment, and self-possession, that I often longed to ap- 
plaud. The most impartant and delicate points of political | 
life were touched upon freely, and even daringly : but not 
a word passed his lips that might not have been printed. 
Only at the very beginning had I any share in the discus- 
sion; afterwards it went on between the four already men- 
tioned. If I were to write down the conversation as a 


Zit, 36) LETTER TO NIEBUHR. 1e7 


memorial, twenty years hence it would hardly seem 
credible. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[Translation. ] Berlin: 17th November, 1827. 


.... To what a degree the acquisition of direct knowledge 
and the personal contemplation of the actual state of things 
is solemn and painful, I need not say. There is scarcely any 
one here, of those whose perceptions are not confined to eye- 
sight, or their feelings to their fingers, who does not envy 
me my otium Capitolinum, or at least would consider it en- 
viable if he knew it: and I feel that fully, when enjoyment 
and quiet are in question... . 

The very day on which I received your letter, I had an 
opportunity, in the presence of the Crown Prince, to speak 
of the scenes in our Rhenish churches which recall the 
Ghetto practices and Jew preaching at Rome: he said, that, 
alas! this practice had prevailed for ten years—an ordi- 
nance of the Minister of War, General Count Hake, having 
expressly asserted, that this was a portion of military duty, 
and not an act of church-worship. I have not yet found 
occasion to communicate with Witzleben on the subject, 
but it shall be brought to bear upon him. 


On this important subject—the compulsory presence 
of Prussian battalions in the Protestant churches in 
Westphalia and the Rhine Provinces, irrespective of 
the confession to which individual soldiers belonged, 
at the close of the Sunday morning’s parade—Bunsen 
had no opening, on the present occasion of being at 
Berlin, to lay the facts of the case before the King ; 
though he found that they were well known to the 
Ministry, and to all pergons in high station and office 
about the Court. It will be seen later that, in the 
year 1837, he made his way through the barrier of 

VOL. I. N 


178 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1827 


timidity and alarm which by custom encompassed 
Frederick William III.; and that an immediate 
command for rescinding the former ordinance for 
marching the troops from parade into church, was the 
consequence of the information thus communicated 
to the King. In general, Bunsen was unremitting 
in his efforts to discover and endeavour to procure 
the removal of any and every just cause of complaint 
among the Roman Catholic subjects of Prussia, in 
order to render them less open to the destructive in- 
trigues of the ultra-Popish party. In short, up to this 
time, he had been exposed to blame and suspicion, as 
being too favourable to them. 
Bunsen to his Wife. 
{ Translation. | Berlin: 29th November. 

Nicolovius brought me to Herr von Meusebach, a member 
of one of our tribunals, of great intelligence, a thorough 
judge of the German language, who possesses a fine collec- 
tion of ancient Hymn Books. He is very hard of hearing, 
but most cheerful and amiable. : 4 

This was the beginning of a series of meetings 
which were highly interesting and profitable to Bun- 
sen with regard to one of his favourite subjects of en- 
quiry—German Hymnology : not only did Herr von 
Meusebach present him with several duplicates out 
of his own collection, but communicated to him the 
results of his own life-labour, and directed him to the 
earliest and most unspoiled Hymns, as composed and 
used in the first freshness of Protestant love and faith 
before they were debased by the alloy of sentimental- 
ism and prosaic rationalism, as is the case with most 
of the Church books of the present day. The begin- 
ning was here made of the valuable mass of materials 


' ZEr. 36] CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE. 179 


for study and selection, which Bunsen procured at 
Berlin and elsewhere, and by which he was enabled to 
compose his own Hymn Book. 


[Translation. ] Berlin: 17th December, 1827. 


. . . On my return home I was astonished to find again an 
invitation from the King. I omitted in the account of the 
last occasion of being at his table (Saturday last) that he 
presented to me with his own hand a writing-case of em- 
bossed leather, as a Christmas gift. The surprise of the 
courtiers was evident at seeing me so soon again. During 
dinner very fine music was performed in the next room ; 
beginning with a warlike measure and then softening into 
choral symphonies, similar to the King’s own course of life. 
‘I never heard anything more perfect. On rising from table 
the King spoke with me for at least half an hour; then 
Strauss was addressed and drawn into the conversation. 
He having remarked that the Kyrie performed that morning. 
had struck him as particularly fine, the King rejoined, 
‘The words too are fine—full of meaning; but many 
people do not desire that the Lord should have mercy upon 
them.’ Then he proceeded to speak of Church music, and 
said, ‘I told you in Rome that I regretted not taking you 
with me to Verona to hear the singing in the Russian 
chapel: we must see what we can arrange here, for we 
have a small Russian colony.’ Then he called General 
Witzleben, and commissioned him to arrange that the 
Russian singers should perform on New Year’s day at 
Potsdam, whither he invited me. 

The results which you draw from my reports of Berlin 
are just. To be in the society of the Crown Prince, of the 
Bernstorff family, and of a few others, is exceptionally desir- 
able: but in a residence here all domestic aud literary life 
would be torn to pieces. mean to let Count Bernstorff 
know that I wish to remain as Jong as possible in Rome— 
‘that I desire no’ other diplomatic situation, and altogether 


180 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1827 


would prefer living in Rome, even to being settled in the 
fatherland, as I must prefer Berlin to any other German place 
‘of abode. Without some great and high object fixed before 
me I should not feel myself in my vocation; nay, rather, 
after four weeks’ official position here, I should be compelled 
either to act against my conviction or resign. On this 
point Iam agreed with all my nearest friends, and even 
with the Crown Prince himself. .... My: ruling conscious- 
ness is that of the transitory nature of all earthly conditions, 
and that keeps me cool and composed; may God preserve 
me thus, as He has granted me this conviction! Pray with 
me for His guidance. | 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin: 31st December—half-past 21 at night. 


Iam alone in the last hour of the year—alone, thank 
God! as I cannot with you in devout meditation await the 
opening of the new year; alone, thank God! because in 
spirit, that 1s, in God, I am with you. What a year of 
blessing now verges to its close! the year in which our 
place among our fellow-countrymen, acquired on the Capitol 
for the fatherland, has been secured ; which brought us our 
beloved Emilia, and which finally conducted me hither to 
obtain a clear consciousness of the value and import of my 
present relative condition. How much greater, how im- 
measurable will the blessing be for which I pray—to remain 
firm in the conviction that the Christian should abstain from 
plans as well as from anxious cares in things temporal. 
How differently has everything turned out to what I anti- 
cipated and desired! How unhappy should I now feel had 
our fate been decided according to my wishes! Wherefore 
no plans for the new year, but only the utterance of my 
almost three months’ experience, that I have nothing to 
wish and pray for, but to be permitted to serve my country 
on the Capitol ; and, secondly, that if I am called elsewhere, 
it may please God to call me hither. I would now turn 


Er. 36] THE COURT AND BUNSEN. 181 


from all contemplation of things earthly in this solemn 

moment to thank God with you for all his unmerited gifts, 
but peculiarly for His long suffering grace, which ever and 
again touches and renews our hearts with the breath of 
Divine life. O may we in the new year serve Him in pure 
love and childlike self-renunciation! May Hein His mercy 
grant us thus to do! Amen. Surely does His hand of 
mercy rest at this moment upon those precious souls which 

He has granted and confided to us, as over those two 

which fied in the days of innocence to the arms of the 

boundless love that in Christ unites us all: to which hand 

of mercy I commend myself and all my beloved for the year 

which is just beginning! 


Extract from a Letter from the Mother of Felix Mendelssohn- 
Bartholdy to M. A. Klingemann, Secretary to the Hanoverian 
Legation in London. 


[Translation. ] Berlin : 28th December, 1827. 


. We have made an agreeable and attractive acquaint- 
ance in M. Bunsen, Minister Resident at Rome. It is with- 
out example, I believe, that a man not belonging to the 
nobility should have enjoyed such favour from the highest 
personages as he has done ; he is daily with the King and 
the Princes, and has been commanded repeatedly to lengthen 
his sojourn here. This unusual favour is the more remark- 
able and honourable to him as he does not purchase it by 
flattery, but on the contrary maintains his opinion with the 
utmost frankness against one and all of the acknowledged 
authorities at Court and in society. He has a powerful 
decisiveness of judgment, and even sharp persistency in 
opinion, yet such a gift of intelligence to soften the edge of 
this otherwise repelling peculiarity, that his superiority is 
not oppressive, but is accepted as naturally resulting from 
the very charm of the ‘abyndance of his knowledge and 
animation of intellect. 

For us more particularly his being here has had this for- 


182 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


tunate result, that His Majesty has resolved to purchase the 
Bartholdy collections for the new Museum... . 

Bunsen has purchased for the King a fine painting of Ra- 
phael’s . . . . representing Mary with the Infant Jesus, of 
which Zelter* has said, ‘This is really a mother; the other 
Madonnas are but nurses. 


A conversation may find a place here, which is re- 
corded as having taken place during a Court Ball at 
Berlin, in the winter of 1827. Two gentlemen were 
speaking of the marvellous reception given to Bunsen 
by the King. ‘All royal favours are showered upon. 
him in an unexampled manner,’ said one of the in- 
terlocutors to the other; ‘nothing remains for His 
Majesty to dofor him.’ ‘Nothing,’ replied the other, 
‘unless the King means to adopt Bunsen.’ | 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] 4th January, 1828. 


How can I sufficiently thank you for the incomparable 
letter of the 17th December! Therein I recognise you as 
the angel hovering round me, as my conscience that never 
deceives me! You were right, dearest, to reprove my 
utterances of self-satisfaction. I am in truth well aware 
that what I wrote was intended to give you aclearer insight 
into the sorrounding circumstances; still, what you com- 
ment upon has so frequently been the case, when you could 
not know it, that I will not attempt self-justification. Often 
does it happen in life that blame falls where it is less de- 
served than in a hundred other cases unknown and unob- 
served, but everyone must take man’s disapprobation as the 


* Zelter was Director of the Sing-Akademie at Berlin. <A few of his 
compositions, and a great number of his quaint, sometimes hypercritical, 
sayings are preserved, and his valuable correspondence with Géthe: also 
the memory of his friendship with Beethoven, and of his early uppreci- 
ation of the genius that lay in Felix Mendelssohn. 


ZET. 36] CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE. 183 


voice of God, which He individually can alone interpret. 
Yet I have to thank God for composure and collectedness 
in action and demeanonr, and for having in the secret of my 
heart combated against, and often overcome, the evil spirit 
of self and of self-conceit. 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. ] 7th January, 1828, 


The King has treated me in these latter days with a degree 
of kindness which I can only term paternal. When I was 
invited at Christmas-time, all believed it was because of my 
approaching departure, it being the King’s custom to invite 
his diplomatic servants on their coming and going. But, 
on the contrary, I was again invited on the 30th—the birth- 
day of Prince Henry—on which occasion the King spoke 
affectingly of his brother and of his desire to see him. For 
the 2nd January he invited me himself to dinner at Pots- 
dam and to hear the singing of the Greek Church music,’ 
only the royal family and Bishop Eylert being present. On 
that day the King conversed with that peculiar power and 
just choice of words which is natural to him, whenever not 
overcast by native shyness. He expressed himself admirably, 
particularly on the subject of the Grecks, of which I will re- 
late more. 

On the 6th January I was again invited, and the King ad- 
dressed me often at table, speaking of plants and flowers in 
his garden, and other matters of observation in which he 
takes pleasure; then after dinner he came towards me and 
Humboldt, as we stood together, and with a smile said, ‘ The 
Privy Counsellor of Legation Bunsen has ordered the Opera 
of Alcestis for us this evening.’ (I made a request to be 
allowed to hear that fine work of Gluck, and Spontini having 
made difficulties, the Crown Prince had the kindness person- : 
ally to order its performance.) The King continued, with 
occasional pauses, as is his wont—as though he were uncer- 
tain how to express himself—‘I was determined to be the, 


184 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. _ [1828 


first to greet you by your new title; it was proposed to me 
this day by Count Bernstorff, and I have with pleasure 
granted his request. I am convinced that your zeal and 
activity in my service will not thereby be lessened.’ I 
answered, a8 you may suppose, in as few words as possible, 
and the King rejoined in the same tone of commendation as 
before. The Court supposed (not the Crown Prince) that 
this private conversation had been a leave-taking and dis- 
missal. This title will make no difference in Rome, but here 
it alters my position in the State. ... 

My way in life has not been made thus easy that I should : 
dwell upon delights as if they were Howers that spring up 
beside me, but rather gaze intently upon the serious calling 
of which I was conscious when, poor and unprovided, un- 
known and disregarded by the world, I strode forth with 
the wanderer’s staff joyfully into the regions under the blue 
sky, as my blessed, never-forgotten father, with upraised 
eyes, pointed it out to me on our parting in 1809, saying, 
* Behold the heavens are blue everywhere ! ea Should I now 
forget that calling, or the vow I made in prospect of death 
during my severe illness P No; I have to call upon God for 
strength not to belong to those in whom ‘the cares of this 
world have choked the good seed.’ It has been granted to 
me in the height of ripened manhood, during a very impor- 
tant period, to overlook from a prominent point of vantage 
my own beloved fatherland, and to discern the nothingness 
of the individual as such, but the importance of the weakest 
if a blessing be given to his smallest endeavours. .. . 


To the Same. 
[ Translation. | 
Berlin, 27th January, 1828; 8rd Sunday atter Epiphany. 

I hope to be able to mention in this letter what the re- 
sults are of the most important step that I ever publicly took 
in my life. The King has now in his hands, perhaps is at 
this moment reading, what has taken place among the 
Christians of the Capitol—all that relates to public worship.. 


Zn. 36] CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE. 185° 


The resolution has, during the last fortnight, stood fast with 
me; in my conscience the explanation was obligatory. I 
have examined all as in the sight of God, and considered it 
with true and Christian friends; and I rejoice to have exe- 
cuted it before circumstances rendered it necessary. I could 
not again have looked upon that paternal, gracious counte- 
nance without having made all known to him—that was my 
feeling. He had a right to know all, and a double right 
from his kindness to me—that was my conviction. Yet all 
that had been done then—all that I had to tell and explain, 
was only that which was ventured upon as being needful 
and indispensable for that particular congregation, according 
to its peculiar needs and its special constitution, for the 
maintenance of a Christian community. Nothing was ef- 
fected which lay beyond those limits... . 


The notices of the following days testify to anxiety 
of mind and want of rest at night. Then on Friday, 
[st February, he continues :— 


At last I am tranquil and cool once again, Had I not 
such a serious and engrossing task before me, how should 
I stand the anxiety and suspense, and besides the separation 
from you! Be convinced that in this activity and strain 
of mind only can I find strength, and be kept quiet. The 
weather is charming; perfect spring—open window—the 
sun only too hot. 

Monday, 4th February. 

After my long letter by the last post, you must be anxious 
for tidings without delay—so 1 write these hasty words to 
tell you that nothing has been said to me on the subject I 
spoke of, but that the King was peculiarly gracious and 
kind ; wherefore I cannot doubt his having got over a shock 
hike that which made Cesar exclaim, ‘ Et tu, Brute !’ 


| Friday, 16th February. 
God alone be praised ! 1° He has granted my prayer, not. 
according to my unworthiness, but according to His.own. 


186 - MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


mercy. The boldest, and yet best-considered, step of my life 
has not been in vain. 

Soon after I sent my last few lines I learnt from Witzle- 
ben that what I had done had given displeasure: the King 
had slightly and impatiently turned over the leaves, with 
the observation, that ‘he could not see why so much altera- 
tion should have been made. Alterations serve to little or 
no purpose. It was true that the congregation there, at 
Rome, was peculiar. He could not issue commands under 
the circumstances.’ And thereupon gave back the papers 
to be further reported upon. Two days later he invited 
me to dinner, and was very gracious; but the occasion was 
a visit from the Grand Duke of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, to 
whom I was to show the Raphael picture. A few days 
later the King resumed the subject with Witzleben; read 
my explanatory essay, which, written from my very heart, 
made its way to his feelings. On many points he expressed 
approbation: and having gone through the whole, and 
marked it with his pencil, he said—‘ Here, and in general, 
I could make no use of this; but the thing is good, and 
altogether answers to my own original intention.’ He then 
desired Witzleben to speak to me upon one or two points ; 
but added at last, ‘I shall speak to him myself.’ Of this 
I was informed when I was listening with many others, in 
a crowded room, to Humboldt’s lecture on physical geo- 
graphy. You may imagine what I felt. God be thanked! 
. .. On returning to my room, [ found a small liturgical 
book, entitled ‘Luther’ (said to have been written by the 
King himself in 1827), which Witzleben sent to me to read 
by command of the King. When I have read it, I shall go 
quictly, bearing in mind the words of the Lord—‘ Take no 
thought what ye shall say.’ 

7 5 o'clock in the afternoon. 

All has passed off much better than I had thought. The 
King received me at a quarter before eleven: spoke first of 
.... then, turning towards the writing:table, he said, 


Zr. 36] CORRESPONDENCE WITH HIS WIFE. 187 


‘You have sent me an essay, which, I tell you plainly, at 
first greatly displeased me, and I was about to send it back 
and decline taking further notice of the matter; but at 
length I read it from beginning to end, and perceived that 
it was a different thing to any other plan of alteration that 
has been brought before me. I am willing to admit what 
has been done: I pretend not to extend my jurisdiction as 
far as Rome, and will not issue commands, but only say 
what I wish and advise. I have made observations in 
writing upon your manuscript, and shall talk them over 
with you.’ He proceeded to read and comment; his man- 
ner becoming gradually milder, more gracious and friendly, 
but I cannot go into details. The King closed with the 
gracious words—‘I do the fullest justice not only to your 
sentiments, but also to your manner of proceeding: I have 
not experienced anything like this before: there is a right 


mind in the whole.’ 
26th February. 


This day the King has dismissed me with the same 
gracious kindness with which he received me on my arrival. 
After dinner, he asked me if I had seen the view of the 
Capitol, hung up long since in his closet ? and desired me 
to follow him that he might show it me; when he took the 
opportunity of saying, that he had had much pleasure in 
seeing me here, and was convinced that I should further 
serve him with the same zeal and fidelity as hitherto. My 
reply was graciously received; but the King added that he 
should see me once again, to entrust to me a letter for 
Prince Henry—at the latest on Friday. Wherefore my 
day of departure is (God be thanked!) at last fixed for 
Saturday. . . . When you receive this I shall have reached 
Bonn. 

4th March. 

My prEaREst,—I am still here, but God las blessed this 

day of joy and thankfulness * beyond all hope. 


* His wife's birthday, 


188 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


_ On Friday last, I was in the act of taking leave of the 
- Princes, when I received the King’s commands to dine with 
him at two o’clock. On my entrance, the King told me he 
wished I should delay my journey for a few days: Witzle- 
ben would explain all. 

To him therefore I went directly after dinner, and 
learnt that the King had resolved to have my liturgical 
arrangement for the chapel at Rome printed, with his own 
expressed sanction, and with a preface by his own hand ; 
and that I was to superintend the printing. This morning 
T received the fair copy, with the pencil marks in the King’s 
own hand, and the preface (also in his own hand) stating 
that this was only a development of the general form of 
public devotion, long since introduced by himself. 

I shall be able to move as soon as I have the printed 
copies. I am sure you thank God with me, hard as the 
duty is which imposes such a lengthened separation. ... 


10th March. 


-.... Since my last letter many communications have 
taken place: the King has taken each separate point into 
his most serious consideration, and has ended by allowing 
all. Paper and type have been selected, and the printing 
will begin to-morrow. When this morning I arranged the 
entire MS. for the press, all seemed to me as a dream; for 
often has this been in my dreams. How much now lies 
behind me! but ‘whoso layeth hand to the plough’ must 
not look back: and so I will only think how much still 
lies before me, if the Lord will grant me health and His 
blessing towards the fulfilment of my vow. 

_ It is indeed a blessing that the climate here agrees with 
me so well! I never sleep more than five or six hours, and 
have no rest all day, having to speak to a hundred persons 
about a hundred things, or to work in full strain of atten- 
tion, except when I drop asleep about nine o’clock, and yet 
I never was better in health, and am cool and cheerful. 


| ZEr, 36] THE PRINTING OF THE LITURGY. 189 


Lately I went to bed at half-past seven, rose before three, 
and worked till seven—as I used to do twenty years ago; 
in the evening I never work later than nine. 

Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, twenty years of age, is deep 
in chorale music. .... He is one of the most amiable and 
attaching human beings that I have ever known. I under 
stand from Poelchau, that many of our hymn tunes originate 
in popular songs: for instunce, that of the Evening Hymn, 
‘Now is rest in every wood,’ can be traced up to the year 
1480, as in use among travelling workmen, when it was 
composed, or adapted to the above hymn, by the maitre de 
chapelle of Maximilian I., a pupil of the celebrated Josquin. 
Several tunes can be proved to have been originally rhyth- 
mic, as I have always maintained they ought to be.* .... 


18th March. 


I can announce to you that the printers are hard at work 
. .. 3 but they will have an addition to their labours, as 
the King, of his own accord, has commanded that the Book 
of the Collects, Epistles, and Gospels should be printed 
with the rest. Wherefore Strauss, Tippelskirch, and my- 
self have to go through and prepare the MS. with all care. 

. . . . The kindness of the King tome, and the earnestness 
with which he views and considers the matter in hand, are 
worthy of all respect and thankful acknowledgment. On 
the day when the new command was transmitted to me, I 
was summoned to his table, where there was no other guest: 
and the King said, ‘1 have given you much to do—it has 
taken much time, and you have been long detained from 
your post ; but this has been a regular controversy that we 
have had.’ I have requested to be allowed to keep the MS. 
with His Majesty’s own remarks, and I am to have it—a 
memorial for myself and my descendants. 


* See the small publicatién of Becker and Billroth, tracing out 
ancient melodies to their origin in measured chant, for an explanation 
of ‘rhythmic.’ 


190 | - MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. —— -[1828 


The first meeting between Bunsen and Dr. Thomas 
Arnold, and the beginning of a friendship and mutual 
understanding, which increased and was drawn closer 
each year until cut off too soon and suddenly by the 
-death of the latter in 1842 (shortly after the estab- 
lishment of Bunsen in England), had taken place in 
May 1827, when Dr. Arnold (at that time still resident 
at Laleham) made a rapid holiday journey to Rome 
with two pupils. His stay was restricted to a few 
days, during great part of which Bunsen, with great 
zeal and pleasure, accompanied him in his inspec- 
tion of historical monuments, and communicated his 
own store of topographical information. Dr. Arnold 
wisely declined making any attempt to become ac- 
quainted with the Galleries of the fine arts, as such ; 
his ‘Roman History,’ and everything that could con- 
tribute to fix or render clear his conceptions of any 
portion of it, having an exclusive claim upon his time 
and attention. Arnold and Bunsen considered each 
other as friends from the first, and parted with the ex- 
pressed hope and purpose of not losing sight or know- 
ledge of each other. The first letter that passed be- 
tween them was written by Arnold, before the end of 


that same year. 


Bunsen to Arnold. 
[Translation.] Berlin: Easter Monday, 1828. 


The voice of esteem and hearty affection, from the lips 
of one whom one truly esteems and loves, is a precious 
boon to the heart, when granted as the result of long ac- 
quaintance; and only they who have thus experienced it 
can duly estimate its cheering sound from afar off, as the 
faithful echo of merely short hours of friendly intercourse. 


ZEr. 36] (‘FIRST LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. . 191 


Every degree of mutual inclination and affection is a free 
gift from man, but also a gift of the Lord, in whom only 
the fulness of friendship can be met, and, in a peculiar 
sense, felt to be such. 

This feeling, dear friend, was called forth by your letter 
sent after me hither from Rome; and as it has lived on in 
my soul ever since, I write the expression of it this day, to 
be delivered to you, with a parcel, by the excellent Mr. Jelf, 
tutor to Prince George of Cumberland, whom you knew at 
the University, and who is upon the point of starting for 
England. 

As you have been attracted by much in the German cha- 
racter and life, essentially allied to, and yet differing from, 
the national character of your people and their method of 
mental cultivation, so is it with me in regard to yours, in 
which I have found so much, not only to respect but to 
love. And as you have been disappointed in many of your 
expectations in the Germans of the present day, and have 
found in them what was chilling, if not repulsive to you,— 
so have I found, in the range of opinion which concerns 
the greatest political and religious problems of the day, pre- 
cisely among those of your countrymen towards whom I 
feel myself the most drawn (the men who hold Old Eng- 
land high above all else), points on which I cannot easily 
either make my own reasoning intelligible to them, or com- 
prehend and accept theirs. Therefore it was to me such a 
very great and unexpected joy, that in the intercourse of a 
few hours I found I could with you at once come to a com- 
mon understanding, which so opened my heart towards you 
as to make it easy to express what (as Plato says) the soul 
can only utter when conscious of communion with an allied 
spirit. Heartily, therefore, do I thank you for that friend- 
ship and kindness, which I hope to preserve for ever. . . . 
I rejoice in your remeval to Rugby, because I hope that, 
- gooner or later, it will secure to you that leisure which the 
Englishman of learning can rarely enjoy until he has paid 


192 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


his debt to public life by a course of practical usefulness. 
God grant that the abundance of business may not keep 
you entirely from your own pursuits ! 

A seemingly accidental circumstance caused my coming 
to Berlin, where I intended to remain only a fortnight, to 
become acquainted with the State which has adopted me 
since I have been in Italy, and to present myself before my 
hitherto unseen chiefs. But Providence has otherwise or- 
dained it; and on the day when six months will have elapsed 
since I entered the town, I shall depart, with unmixed thank- 
fulness for the more than kindness shown to me in my recep- 
tion by the King and the Royal Family, but with yet greater 
thankfulness towards the Lord, who has allowed the fulfil- 
ment of my most cherished wishes. 

My views on the subject of the Protestant Church in 
Germany, and particularly the need of a spiritual guide for 
the nation (geistliches Volksbuch) like your Common Prayer 
Book, I have communicated to you. My maxim is, No 
general Church without a Liturgy, and no Liturgy without 
a Church. The latter is, alas! not yet understood among 
us. In the consciousness of this need, I took it upon my- 
self to modify the King’s Liturgy for the chapel of the 
Roman Legation, after the pattern of the English Liturgy. 
My friends here were startled at this piece of daring, 
but the King has allowed it most graciously, and even 
given orders for printing the form of worship, with the 
addition of some liturgical fragments which I, with my 
friend Rothe (chaplain to the Legation), had selected and 
arranged for the use of the German congregation at Rome. 
Thus is the origin of the book I now send explained. Iam 
convinced that this form gives utterance to the idea of the 
ancient Church with respect to the Christian sacrifice ; and 
this, with the conception of the spiritual priesthood of all 
Christians, naturally connected with it, is not only freely 
expressed, but laid down as the foundation of the whole... . 

The principal objects of the whole are two.—1. The re- 


JEr. 36] DESIGN OF THE NEW LITURGY. 198 


presentation of the Evangelical conception of the believer’s 
sacrifice, in public worship without communion, so that, in 
the latter case also, the sermon shall not appear the culmi- 
nating point. 2. The connection of this idea with the cele- 
_ bration of the Lord’s Supper. The former was, alas! not 
attempted by the primitive Church in that decisive moment 
of the world’s history when the daily and universal com- 
munion of the congregation ceased; and the latter, alas ! 
soon sunk into obscurity and confusion—the external, 
purely symbolical, use of the zpocgévey of bread and wine 
being so exclusively brought into notice, as to overshadow 
the true idea of self-sacrifice—the continuous, spiritual 
giving of thanks, which is the self-sacrifice of the Christian ; 
and to prepare the way for the notion of the Sacrifice of the 
Mass. The true idea of sacrifice belongs to Divine worship, 
or adoration as such, and not to the Communion, in the 
celebration of which, however, it has its most: perfect adap- 
tation. These assertions I shall be better able to prove 
when I publish the ‘ Codex Inturgicus Ecclesia Universe.’ I 
experienced here, at first, much opposition and misunder- 
standing among theologians, but at length, in many quar- 
ters, encouraging and cheering concurrence. Dr. Tholuck 
(who is known in England) will go with me to Rome as 
chaplain to the Legation. 

On politics it were best to be silent. The Austro-Turkish 
oscillations of your great commander, and I must admit also 
the state of feeling of a very large portion of the nation, 
have grieved me to the heart. They must ever remain a 
spot of darkness in the constellation of Albion, and are 
among the greatest political errors I know of. If peace be 
yet preserved among the great Christian Powers, it is not 
certainly the result of this system. To the Lord I com- 
mend all! May He bless and preserve you and yours! Pray 


write to me soon! 
4 


VOL. I. oO ¢ 


194. MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. | Berlin: Wednesday, 9th April. 


_ . . . Shall you be grieved that Iam still here ? and can 
you believe that I shall really set out this week ? After all 
the printing and the binding were really completed, I had 
myself the joy of taking to the King the first copies of the 
Capitoline Liturgy, of which he gave me one in quarto 
as his gift to the congregation, and one of the octavo edition 
for myself. Then he again repeated to me the gracious 
expressions used before, regarding myself and Rothe : after 
which he gave me, for the first time, his royal right hand. 
Then he spoke with me for at least half an hour, things im- 
portant and not to be forgotten ; and gave me an oppor- 
tunity of saying many things. This was in the forenoon: [ 
was invited to the King’s table, and then finally dismissed 
with all signs of favour. As I departed from the Palace, 
General Witzleben informed me that the King intended a 
memorial gift for me; that he knew that I did not want or 
expect one, but that he wished to prove that he was very 
well inclined towards me. The King had (immediately after 
my last audience) desired the general to select some pieces 
from the porcelain manufactory, from which he would him- 
self make choice of one forme. ..... 


To the Same. 


[Translation. | Wittenberg : Sunday, 13th April, 1828. 


.... Yesterday evening, at half-past ten, I drove out of 
the royal city, in which I have met with more affection and 
kindness than in any other town of my native country. 

On Wednesday evening the King sent me a fine porcelain 
vase with two paintings, one being a view of the King’s 
Palace, the other of Berlin; he had chosen this himself out 
of twelve that had been brought to him for selection ; and 
the accompanying message was—‘As a memorial of himself 
and of his residence.’ Next morning other persons came 


Ex. 36] LEAVE-TAKING AT BERLIN. 195 


commissioned to pack the vase, and so it 1s now despatched, 
by Augsburg, to Rome. 

I remained over Saturday on account of the baptism of 
the young Prince, son of Prince Karl,* where I again met 
all the Royal Family. The Crown Prince said he would 
not take leave of me there in public, but conducted me to 
his own room, where, after the most gracious expressions, 
he presented me with a piece of ancient German sculpture, 
an ‘Ecce Homo’ in ivory, asamemorial. Thenit remained 
to me to bid farewell to my special friends, Schonberg, 
Witzleben, Neander, Grében, Savigny, Bernstorff, till half- 
past ten, when I left, oppressed with a multitude of feelings, 
which were merged in humiliation and thankfulness. The 
company of Tippelskirch wasa solace. I have to- day heard 
Heubner preach, and had a walk with him. I enjoy this 
rest in Wittenberg. 


* Prince Friedrich Karl, Commander-in-Chief of the Prussian forces 
in Schleswig-Holstein in 1864, and of the ‘ First’ Army in Bohemia in 
1866. 





Bust of Bunsen, by Wolff (1827). 


CHAPTER VI. 


RESIDENCE IN ROME—(continued). 


RETURN TO ROME—PRUSSIAN LITURGY— MUSICAL TASTES—-CHURCH AFFAIRS 
IN SILESIA-—DESCRIPTION OF ROME—NIEBUHR'S POLITICAL OPINIONS 
—-VISIT OF THE CROWN PRINCE TO ITALY—ARCH OLOGICAL INSTITUTB 
~--EGYPTIAN RESEARCHES—DEATH OF LEO XJI.—REVOLUTION OF 1830 
—DEKATH OF NIEBUHR—SIR WALTER SCOTT—-CORRESPONDENCE WITH 
ARNOLD. 


BuNSEN’s long term of labour, anxiety, and excite- 
ment, as well as of honour and favour at Berlin, 
1827-28, was critical in his life in more points than 
those yet mentioned. He returned home to his 
family and favourite position in May 1828, two days — 
earlier than he had finally announced himself, in good 


fér. 36] BUST AND PORTRAITS OF BUNSEN. 197 


health, but altered in person, having a fulness of 
cheek and a constant flush of colour, as well as a 
commencement of corpulence, a diminution of the 
original thickness of hair on the summit of the head, 
and a slight sprinkling of grey hair, such as testified 
to the close of youth and entrance on another period 
of life. These changes could in part be the more 
accurately noted, as in the beginning of September 
1827, just previous to the journey to Berlin, the 
accomplished Prussian sculptor Wolff had modelled 
the bust of Bunsen with a success universally ad- 
mitted. This bust he afterwards executed in marble 
with the highest finish, and it remains a precious 
family monument in the house of Ernest von Bunsen 
in London. It was an offering of gratitude on the 
part of Wolff, who desired to make some return, by 
the exercise of his acknowledged talents, for the 
essential services which Bunsen had sought and 
found occasion to render him. The gift of the artist 
could not be declined without a want of consideration 
for his feelings ; and Bunsen made a condition that 
he should be allowed to take on his own account the 
whole cost of the material, accepting with thanks 
the intrinsic value conferred on the block of marble 
by the mind and skill of the sculptor. The bust 
In question gives the exact representation of the 
face, the features, and the hair-growth in Bunsen’s 
youthful years, and the marble is not paler than he 
used to be: it may also be said to share, with three 
other portraits (viz. a,fine medallion vy Bohm of 
Vienna, executed in 1825, a pen drawing by Schnorr 
in 18385, and a miniature by Grahl in 1836), an 


198 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


excess of seriousness, almost amounting to sternness, 
which strongly contrasts with the bright cheerfulness 
of the portrait by Richmond in 1846, and of the bust 
by Behnes in 1849. The medallion by Monroe, exe- 
cuted in 1853, has the solemn look, which suits well 
with its present position upon the monument in the 
cemetery at Bonn. 

Although the letters to Christiana of December 
1822, and January 1828, indicate the commencement 
and the nature of Bunsen’s relation to King Frederick 
William III., some further explanation is necessary 
to render the extraordinary circumstances attending 
Bunsen’s stay in Berlin, from September 1827 to 
April 1828, intelligible. 

The impression produced by England on the mind 
of Frederick Willian ITI., on the occasion of his visit 
to that country after the occupation of Paris by the 
Allied armies, was strong and enduring in many 
respects; but nothing that he had witnessed was so 
congenial to his feelings as the solemnity of the quiet 
Sunday and the spectacle of the multitudes who, at 
least, showed the desire and seized the opportunity 
of worshipping God and of receiving edification on 
that day, which was thus shielded by custom from 
worldly occupations. He was intensely anxious to 
heal the wounds of his own ravaged and dissevered 
dominions, by effectually securing the advancement 
of Christianity, as the best means of renewing well- 
being in every direction; and he had a strong im- 
pression of the peculiar duty inherited by the House 
of Brandenburg, to create peace and unity between 
the observances of the Reformed (or Calvinistic) 


Er. 36] KING FREDERICK WILLIAM'S ‘ AGENDA?’ 199 


Churches and those of the Lutheran Confession. 
Could the King have had his wish, it would probably 
have taken the form of an absolute merging of varia- 
tions into a solid and uniform establishment like that 
of the Church of England, which he knew to have 
originated in a compound of the maxims of the two 
Reformers, to be modified according to German pecu- 
liarities. This is not the place to note in detail the 
course of serious study and the manifold difficulties — 
undertaken and worked through by the conscientious 
King and his favourite aide-de-camp, General Witz- 
leben, during many years. The King’s researches 
after modes of conciliation had encountered much 
opposition, and only in the military deference of this 
much-respected officer, and his honest appreciation 
of the object in view, did he find assistance in the 
construction of a form of prayer for his own private 
chapel, put together from various liturgical fragments, 
which he proceeded, after the mode of the long~- 
established paternal (i.e. absolute) government, by 
degrees to introduce throughout the kingdom. The 
King’s ‘Agenda’ became the authorised form of 
public worship in the ‘ United Evangelic Church of 
Prussia’ in the years following the tercentenary 
festival of the Reformation in 1817, when the King, 
although a Calvinist, had for the first time partaken 
of the Lord’s Supper in a Lutheran church. In the 
autumn of 1822, the King, when about to proceed from 
Rome to Naples, signified that a hall, properly fitted 
up for Divine service, was to be arranged within the 
residence of the Prussian Legation, in which on 
Sundays his own new ‘ Agenda,’ or form of devotion, 


200 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


was to be performed. On the urgent suggestion of 
Niebuhr, Dr. Schmieder had been appointed chap- 
lain in the year 1818 in order to collect together and 
to edify the scattered German inhabitants of Rome: 
but the form of worship was limited, by custom, 
to the sermon, preceded and followed by a very few 
passages of a fixed character, containing portions of 
Scripture and prayers, the fine choral hymns joined 
in by the entire congregation being the great point 
of union, as they are the pride, and justly so, of 
Protestant Germany. This arrangement for public 
worship was the King’s institution, and supported 
at his expense; therefore, when he directed the 
mode to be observed, this was only according to 
rule and custom; and the prescribed adaptation of a 
portion of the Prussian Minister’s dwelling in the 
Palazzo Savelli was, in accordance with the King’s 
command, effected, as well as the training of such 
volunteer performers as could be persuaded to lend as- 
sistance in forming an extempore choir (by dint of 
much exertion of influence, which fell principally to 
the share of Bunsen), within the short time of the 
King’s absence at Naples. On the one Sunday that in- 
tervened before the King’s final departure from Rome 
northward, he found all appearances fair and smooth, 
and was not aware that the performers of his favour- 
ite ‘Agenda’ would be and must be confined to the 
single occasion of his presence. It is not for me to 
explain why the course, seemingly most natural, of 
a straightforward statement to the King, that in an 
exceptional place like Rome the materials for a 


JET. 36) BUNSEN'S RELATIONS WITH THE KING. 201 


regular cathedral service were wanting, was not 
followed, nor his permission requested for a return to 
former practices as long possible; and it 1s my belief 
that had Bunsen been at the head of the Legation, 
he would not have been silent as to the reality of 
things ; for often has he been heard to say, that the 
truth of fact is at least as much due to a Sove- 
reign as to any other fellow-creature. The longing 
desire for an opportunity of open declaration of the 
state of things to the King was a principal reason 
for Bunsen’s suggesting to his chiefs in the Ministry 
that he should himself be the escort of the Raphael 
picture, which they had ordered to be despatched to 
Berlin like any common package, in unconsciousness 
of the danger of detention. His anxiety as to the 
effect that might be produced on the King’s mind by 
his communication will not seem surprising. But 
the result at last, which brought him an increase of 
favour and indulgence, proves a liberality and high- 
mindedness, a capability of examining into reasons, 
and a readiness to change an opinion on conviction, 
a sincerity in search of the right and just, and a 
power of self-renunciation in the King, which are 
deserving of all acknowledgment in proportion to 
the irritating nature of the trial. 

This was, no doubt, with Bunsen that ‘tide in 
the affairs of men, which, taken at the flood, leads 
on to fortune ’—understanding ‘fortune’ in the 
sense of the gratification of ambition in the at- 
tainment of high office. The inclinations of many 
persons in power, besivies the very highest, set in 


®. 
202 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


strongly towards retaining him at that time in Berlin ; 
and it was his own instinct fortunately telling him 
that a residence at Berlin was unsuited to the further- 
ance of his favourite pursuits, and the sincerity and 
urgency with which he expressed his desire to return 
to Rome and remain there, which saved him from 
becoming entangled in a position which he could not 
have mastered. 

One of the singularities of Bunsen’s relation to the 
Sovereign who showed him such paternal predilec- 
tion, was that he first met the King’s notice under 
the character (not self-assumed) of a judge and autho- 
rity in the fine arts. The first report which reached 
Berlin and the Court about the unknown favourite 
of Niebuhr, was that he passed his leisure among 
painters and paintings; and accordingly the first 
words of the King when Bunsen was presented to 
him, in 1822, were, ‘You are a great judge and 
connoisseur, I am told?’ ‘I do not pretend to be 
so, please your majesty,’ was the answer of Bunsen. 
On the next occasion of notice, at table, the King 
desired to receive information on the subject of Pales- 
trina, some of whose grand compositions were to be 
performed by a selection of the singers of the Sixtine 
Chapel at the residence of Cardinal Consalvi, in order 
to bring to the King’s notice one of the chief curi- 
osities peculiar to Rome. The King’s sudden and 
abrupt questions, ‘ Who was this Palestrina »’ ‘What 
is this music ?’ met not (for some unexplained reason) 
with the expected instantaneous reply from Niebuhr ; 
and the King’s eye, first directed to him, wan- 
dered on till it fixed upon Bunsen, the question 


FET. 36] THE NEW LITURGY. 203 


being at the same instant repeated, and replied to 
with the collectedness and presence of mind for which 
he was remarkable; so that the King, pleased with 
having been understood, and with the matter which 
his enquiry had elicited, continued the conversation 
with Bunsen till the end of dinner, to the astonish- 
nent of the Court party. In the momentary pause, 
before the King looked towards Bunsen repeating 
his question, he was heard to utter in a low voice, 
‘Habe wohl etwas dummes gefragt!’ (‘I suppose I 
have asked a stupid question!’) The King was shy 
—as if he were always conscious of his own neglected 
education ; and apt to apprehend that he was himself 
in fault, when not understood. 

To give an explanation of the peculiar labours, be- 
sides those already mentioned, into which Bunsen was 
drawn at Berlin in 1827-28, and which occasioned the 
first protraction of his stay there, is neither within 
the power nor the province of the writer of these 
pages. But it is certain that he was called upon to 
take part in other weighty matters such as those con- 
cerning the Church of Rome at Breslau, the effect 
produced in the northern and exclusively Protestant 
provinces by the introduction of the new liturgical 
form, and the attempt to unite the Lutheran and re- 
formed Churches. Bunsen was urgent from the be- 
ginning to the end of his career of public life, ‘in 
season and out of season,’ for the avoidance of every 
act of government which might have the slightest ap- 
pearance of imposing tyammels upon the conscience 
in matters of worship ever so seemingly indifferent. 
He had too good reason to know that the desire to 


204 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


serve the King in bringing about the execution of 
his benevolent designs had caused in many parts of the 
Prussian dominions a system of browbeating on the 
one hand and of coaxing on the other, which, though 
outwardly successful, had not tended to peace be- 
tween the variously-minded. It was his belief, on 
quitting Berlin in 1828, that on this field of exertion 
he had gained important points, and that beneficial 
results would follow, preparatory to that full and 
absolute liberation of the Church (i.e. community of 
believers) from the State, which he faithfully advo- 
cated, and sometimes believed he had succeeded in 
making acceptable to the heir apparent if not to the 
then reigning Sovereign. 

It will be seen, in the account of Bunsen’s last and 
memorable conference with the late King, in Septem- 
ber 1857, that he used a new line of tactics in order 
to bring his convictions to the royal acceptance, sug- 
gesting the rightful position of believers in the Chris- 
tian State, by analogy drawn from the way in which 
the different classes among worshippers are placed in 
a reasonably-constructed cathedral-church. Of his 
upright and earnest striving, of his prodigality of 
intellectual energy, in the cause of Christian inde- 
pendence and freedom of conscience, may the royal 
archives one day disclose the multiplied proofs to the 
historian of another generation ! | 

Bunsen’s entanglement in the ‘ Description of 
Rome’ may be said to date from the winter of 1817- 
18, when Niebuhr and Brandis, in conjunction with 
Bunsen, were endeavouring anxiously to find an occu- 
pation for Platner, by which his talents and acquire- 


ZET. 37] ENGAGEMENT OF PLATNER. 205 


ments might be turned to account for the support of 
his family. Platner had been till that time by pro- 
fession a painter, and an unsuccessful one, his father 
having destined him for that pursuit without enquir- 
ing what Nature had designed for his son. At last, 
a much-wanted new edition of the old ‘ Description 
of Rome’ by Volkmann and Lalande was suggested 
as an undertaking for which Platner might be well 
calculated, from his knowledge of works of art, of the 
antiquities of the middle ages, and of the history of 
Italy. But as, owing to his want of acquaintance 
with the Latin language, he was disqualified from 
going further than the Italian could carry him, 
Niebuhr and Brandis promised to manage between 
them the classical part of the work, and Bunsen 
undertook to help Platner whenever he should have 
need of reference to Latin writers. Cotta, the pub- 
lisher, passing through Rome that winter, entered 
with the greatest alacrity into the plan. The work 
was to be executed on his account, he was to pay two 
louis d’or for every printed sheet, and gave carte 
blanche for the purchase of the necessary books of 
reference. This was very liberal, but at the same 
time a good speculation; for Cotta judged rightly 
that a work for which Niebuhr and Brandis were 
vouchers would be worth his money. The contract 
was made in March 1818, and Platner set to work, in 
the first instance to make an historical description of 
the basilicas, or principal churches of Rome. But 
he was every moment reduced to a stand-still from 
the amount of Latin recessary to be waded through: 
and came about three evenings in every week for 


206 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


advice and correction of style—the latter being with 
Platner the most tedious of all matters, as he con- 
sidered it his duty to fight in defence of his own 
arrangement of materials, and his peculiar use of 
German words. Nearly three years passed before 
anything was so far finished as to be submitted to 
the inspection of Niebuhr, who, when he at last saw 
a description of the Lateran which had cost Bunsen 
time and breath beyond calculation, and more pa- 
tience than he could have been supposed to possess, 
exclaimed to Bunsen, ‘ Can you, my good friend, for 
a moment suppose that what Platner has here written 
can be sent to the press?’ This was a serious deci- 
sion, against the justice of which Bunsen could not 
protest, for it coincided with his own opinion; and 
he answered—‘ Then I must write the thing myself, 
for I cannot do more than I have done to help Platner 
to write it.’ Bunsen therefore began at the begin- 
ning, and very soon brought for Niebuhr’s inspection 
a history, description, and detailed criticism of the 
Lateran, and of 8. Paolo fuori le mure, which obtained 
not only his approbation but high commendation. 
It was now settled that Niebuhr would keep to 
ancient Rome and its vestiges, Bunsen to the middle 
ages and their remains, and Platner to the museums 
and galleries, for which he proved himself fully com- 
petent. Brandis had gone long since ‘over the hills 
and far away,’ and the time soon came when Niebuhr 
was also to depart, without having contributed any- 
thing to the work except a short dissertation, small! 
in bulk though great in importance, on the history of 
the first foundation, the improvement, the growth, 


Et. 37] THE ‘DESCRIPTION OF ROME’ 207 


diminution, and the destruction of ancient Rome. 
He was very sorry not to have done more, but a 
promise given in a weak moment was the cause of 
his being altogether prevented from fulfilling his 
favourite purpose. Gau, the architect, designed to 
publish some drawings of the antiquities of Nubia, 
and Niebuhr had promised a critical revision of the 
accompanying Greek inscriptions, which he had not 
intended to undertake till after having completed 
his portion of the work on Rome. But Gau, being 
at Paris, ventured to advertise his work, promising 
Niebuhr’s editorship and the whole publication with- 
in the year; by which proceeding Niebulir was en- 
trapped into working at the Nubian inscriptions up to 
the time of his departure from Rome, in the spring 
of 1823. Thus the whole weight of the Roman work 
remained on the shoulders of Bunsen, in addition to 
the entire business of the Prussian Legation, for 
which Niebubr and Bunsen together had not been 
more than sufficient. The antiquarian portion was 
afterwards undertaken partly by Gerhard and partly 
by Urlichs ; a portion of the middle ages by Réstell, 
—who in addition undertook to correct Platner’s 
writing. At a later period, the distinguished Roman 
archeologist, Sarti, was induced to execute a highly 
valuable portion of the work. 

The foregoing statement is accurate, so far as an 
outline of facts can go. But the import of the 
whole transaction in the life of Bunsen can only be 
estimated by those who witnessed the degree of 
disturbance created hy it, the uneasiness caused to 
him by the consciousness of responsibility, and the 


208 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


quantity of actual labour and intense application 
which he devoted to those portions of the ‘ Description 
of Rome’ which were his own exclusive work, and 
which he spared no endeavours to render complete 
and clear to the comprehension of every reader—a 
labour which was all the more keenly felt to be an 
exertion, as it was given to matters not falling with- 
in his natural province, and which would never have 
been selected by him for the occupation of serious 
hours. Topography and antiquarian lore were in- 
tensely interesting to him as matters of secondary 
importance, because they enhanced the pleasure of 
walks and excursions, and contributed to the elucida- 
tion of history or of extinct nationalities. But they 
occupied him only as accessories, and he grudged the 
time he was called upon to give to that which filled 
not the mind; and his instinctive repugnance to them 
grew stronger as he became additionally conscious of 
the attraction of his great historical, biblical, ltur- 
gical and hymnological investigations. But although 
inclination was with him a very powerful incentive, 
he had happily mastered in early life the conception 
of duty; and thus he performed to the full the 
self-incurred obligation, which proved for a period 
of eleven years (from 1818 to 1829) a serious impedi- 
ment to progress in his own favourite pursuits. 

The departure of Niebuhr in 18238, and Bunsen’s 
entrance upon the position of Chief of the Legation, 
formed an epoch in the life of the latter in more 
senses than one,—outwardly, inasmuch as he filled 
an independent post in society, and inwardly, because 
it formed the beginning of the emancipation of his 


Er. 37] POLITICAL OPINIONS OF BUNSEN. 209 


mind from the exclusive influence of Niebuhr’s 
opinions, which he had adopted to the pitch of seeirg 
the facts of public life only through, the medium 
which original temperament and much suffering had 
cast around the wonderful intelligence of the his- 
torian. Duriag Bunsen’s university years, his politi- 
cal sentiments and those of his associates would seem 
to have had no further aim than the expulsion of the 
French from the whole German territory, and the 
restitution of everything German into German hands: 
Bunsen himself had a strong and bitter consciousness 
of the hardships inflicted on the inhabitants of small 
States by the system of miniature Principalities, and 
an early conviction that only in the greater State 
(viz. Prussia) could any good be anticipated for the 
advancement of an individual or a cause. He agreed 
with his friends in abhorrence of the levelling prin- 
ciples generated by the French Revolution, and of 
the thirst after universal dominion which had spread 
French armies over Germany, as also in the trustful 
hope, with which they all looked to the introduction 
of those essential reforms required in every German 
State, by the hands of each Government within its 
own bounds. Too soon the proceedings within the 
first years after the expulsion of the French made it 
clear to Bunsen, as well as to Niebuhr, that the state 
of the Prussian dominions did not show that thorough 
renovation which was acknowledged to be requisite ; 
but the irritation of Niebuhr’s mind was directed 
against individuals who impeded the full efficiency of 
@ benevolent despotism in bestowing the best gifts 
upon those subjected to its power,—while he mis- 
VOL. I. P 


210 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. . [1828 


trusted and condemned as Jacobinical every effort of 
the liberal-minded to establish that representative 
system, which the King had promised to grant by way 
of a recompense for the patriotic efforts by which 
his throne had been preserved. Niebuhr’s inclination 
to trust government instead of the nation governed 
extended beyond his own country; and even the 
successive administrations of the Restoration in 
France did not affect his confidence in the capacity 
for good in each as it came. As to England, his 
admiration of the constitutional system was undoubt- 
ing; but he believed only in the Tory party as the 
real friends of the country; he adopted uncondition- 
ally the sentiments of Burke in his work on the 
French Revolution, and had the most unqualified 
admiration for Pitt and for his policy, believing that 
by favouring the national animosity against the 
French, and engaging every active interest in the war 
against them as regicides, he had checked the revo- 
lutionising process in the English mind. Towards 
England under Tory administrations he was well 
inclined and trustful, until he saw or suspected a 
swerving from the course under Whig influences ; 
which suspicion would seem to be the probable ex- 
planation of the strong turn his feelings took against 
Canning and Wellington, and of his virulent condem- 
nation of the peaceable attitude of England towards 
the new Government of Louis Philippe. The events 
of July 1880 may be said to have given the deathblow 
to Niebubr; for although he expired only in the 
beginning of 1831, yet from the time of the Paris 
disturbances he was in perpetual fever of alarm in 


Zr. 37) ITALINSKY, GAGARIN, VON HAHN. 211. 


anticipation of a European war, and would listen to 
no argument which tended to lead him to a more 
consolatory view of the future; uttering whether by 
word of mouth or in writing many of those phrases 
of condensed meaning peculiar to himself, such as 
‘The madness of the Polignac Ministry has broken 
the talisman which bound the demon of Revolution ;’ 
and qualifying the friendly relations between France 
and England as ‘ the alliance of the Tiger and the 
Shark, threatening destruction to the rest of the 
world.’ On the present occasion Bunsen had by 
letter submitted to Niebuhr, with his usual deference, 
a different view of things,—his reasons for antici- 
pating peace, and not a general convulsion: which 
proves that he had already achieved his independence 
in forming opinions. From the time that he had 
conducted the affairs of the mission alone, he con- 
sidered it a part of his duty to frequent the society 
which he had before avoided as much as possible ; 
always following up the practice of his life to seek 
intelligence at first hand, and to master facts inde- 
dependent of influences. From the first he was 
much drawn into the confidential circle of the vene- 
rable Russian Ambassador, Italinsky, who showed him 
the most encouraging kindness, and from whom, as 
he has often said, he derived a greater amount of 
sound political knowledge than from almost any in- 
dividual. In the company of Italinsky he formed 
other valuable intimacies, among which was that of 
the witty Gagarin, who succeeded after Italinsky’s 
death to the Russian mission at Rome. It was also 
in the house of Italinsky that Bunsen met the brilliant 
P32 


212 _ MEMOIRS OF BAROW BUNSEN. [1828 


young attaché, Baron Paul von Hahn of Courland, 
who—after a long course of public service, extensive 
and important, under the Emperors Alexander I. and 
Nicholas, finally as Governor-General of the Cauca- 
sus—came with his admirable wife (born Sophie de 
Grainberg), nearly at the close of his career, to 
Heidelberg, to shed a soothing influence, by faithful 
continuance of friendship and sympathy, over Bun- 
sen’s declining years. 

_In the course of various changes in the French 
Embassy during the fifteen years of Bunsen’s inde- 
pendent position at Rome, the list of diplomatists 
contains many names of interest to him: Chateau- 
briand, La Ferronays, Laval Montmorency, Latour 
Maubourg, St. Aulaire. To his English acquaint- 
ances, many of whom became cherished friends, he 
ever looked up with more especial sympathy, and 
from them he sought and received that great amount 
of knowledge of men and of things with which he 
came provided, to every one’s surprise, when at last 
he reached the shores of England. To enumerate all 
the names of more or less importance to him now 
would scarcely be possible, even were it desirable; 
but Thirlwall (now bishop of St. David’s) and Dr. 
George Nott may be named as the associates of the 
earliest years in Rome. The conversation of Bunsen 
may not have been without influence on the choice of 
@ profession in the case of the former, who was far 
from having decided upon taking orders when he 
came to Rome in 1818-19, and was probably struck 
by the higher interest -taken by Bunsen in theology, 
compared with everv other subject, and his admiring 


Er. 371 VISIT OF THE CROWN PRINCE TO ROME. 213 


preference of much in the Anglican system. With- 
out laying such a stress upon the influence of indi- 
viduals on the mind of Bunsen as would lead to a 
wrong inference, it may be said that f:om the ultra 
Tory creed of Niebuhr, which the latter had fully 
adopted as the standard of truth (even to the extent 
of holding in abhorrence, as political sinners, the 
great writers in the ‘Edinburgh Review’), Bunsen 
gradually turned to accept the moderate Whiggism 
of Hallam and of Arnold, and became opposed to 
every let or hindrance that could bar the influence of 
public opinion, in intelligent and cultivated nations, 
upon the conduct of government. Hence from in- 
most conviction, with all the energy of his character, 
he became an advocate for the thorough carrying out 
of the representative system. 

The visit of the Crown Prince (afterwards King 
Frederick William IV. of Prussia) to Rome in the 
autumn of 1828 was an event of which it is hard to 
give an adequate impression. Letters from Bunsen 
himself, when accompanying the Prince on his return 
to the frontier of Italy, and privileged to enjoy his 
society uninterruptedly by occupying a place in his 
own carriage, show his animated sense of the enjoy- 
ment, as well as of the distinction granted; add to 
this his clear perception that the future was not to 
be calculated upon according to the brightness and 
high temperature of the present, even though all such 
reasoning checked but little the intoxicating effect 
experienced at the time. Many persons have been 
under the spell of the; Prince for a shorter or longer 
time, some for the greater portion of their life; but 


214 | MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1828 


those who never saw him in Rome can hardly ima- 
gine how great was the expansion of all his most 
engaging characteristics in an atmosphere so genial, 
and how splendid the coruscations of wit and humour 
which were the natural result of a childlike gaiety, 
proceeding from the gratification of his life’s longing 
to see Rome. 

If the instances are many in which Bunsen was 
doomed to an immense amount of labour without 
the immediate and conscious result he had hoped for, 
yet there are many cases in which his success was 
great and salutary beyond expectation. A letter 
from him to Niebuhr gives the date of the first effort 
made to establish the still subsisting and flourishing 
Institute for Archeological correspondence at Rome ; 
which he was led to consider a necessity by the ex- 
perience of his invaluable friend Edward Gerhard* 
(then an early pioneer, and long an honoured centre 
of antiquarian studies in Germany). From the first 
it was open to all who took interest in the study of 
ancient Italy, for English, French, and Italians, as 
well as Germans ; and by means of lectures, meetings, 
papers, correspondence, and personal intercourse, all 
means were used to interest the literary public, so 
that the desired cosmopolitan object might be at- 
tained. The venerable Abbate Fea was the first among 
the Italians to give his cordial adhesion to the plan ; 
among the French, the Duc de Luynes; among the 
English, Sir William Gell, Mr. Hamilton, Mr. Millin- 
gen; of the Germans who gave active aid in the 


* Dr, Edward Gerhard died at Berlin, May 1867. 


Er. 37] ARCHZOLOGICAL INSTITUTE AT ROME. 215 


matter, the names are too many to be enumerated, 
besides Braun, Lepsius, Otto Jahn, Kellermann, and 
Wilhelm Abeken, who died also too early. In addi- 
tion to the unremitting labours of Gerhard, and the 
permanent support of Bunsen, the Institute was deeply 
indebted to the unceasing sympathy and watchful- 
ness of August Kestner. Bunsen, its secretary- 
general, obtained rooms for the establishment of the 
Institute, in its first beginnings, within the Palazzo 
Caffarelli; but in process of time, by dint of per- 
severance, of collections, of subscriptions, of contri- 
butions, ground was purchased and a building was 
erected on the Tarpeian Rock, which furnished a 
permanent and a suitable abode for the collections 
as well as for the managing secretary, including a 
hall for the meetings. Often, in the course of thirty 
years, was the destruction of the establishment threat- 
ened; but Bunsen lived to see it fixed upon a secure 
basis. 

The start made by Bunsen on his course of Egyp- 
tian research has been mentioned before, at the time 
when he first made the acquaintance of Champollion 
at Rome, in 1825; soon after which the careful 
examination of Egyptian antiquities in the Roman 
collections, and the publication of the great work of 
Rosellini, besides conversations with Baron Prokesch 
von Osten (whohad made researches and observations 
in Egypt and Nubia), had more and more confirmed 
Bunsen in the conviction that a grand field of histori- 
cal research was in fact opened ; and he longed to see 
due advantage taken of it by his own nation. He 
had as yet no personal acquaintance with Richard 


216 : MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, | [1828 


Lepsius, but having formed an opinion both of the 
man and of his powers, which experience proved not 
to have been exaggerated, he wrote to him in 1833 to 
state his views on the value of Egyption lore. His 
advice was that Lepsius (then at Paris) should turn 
his attention to the Egyptian treasures contained in 
the Louvre. He also expressed a wish that he would 
come to Rome as his guest, and consider the advi- 
sableness of bringing this new branch of historical 
information within the compass of the objects of the 
Institute. Lepsius entered with warmth and devoted- 
ness into the subject opened to him, and from this 
meeting there resulted not only a close and faithful 
friendship, but the plan of that important expedition 
to Egypt which some years later was accomplished, 
under the protection of King Frederick William IV., 
and at the expense of the Prussian Government. The 
plan was submitted to the King before his accession 
to the Throne, when he at once took in the full impor- 
tance of these studies, at a time when they were not 
countenanced by any of the learned in Germany, ° 
and continued to follow up the subject as one of pecu- 
har interest to himself throughout his life. The Prus- 
sian Treasury has rarely expended large sums with 
greater advantage to science or credit to the State. 
In the case of Bunsen the subject continued inter- 
woven with the whole texture of his occupations and 
meditations, even to the last year of suffering and 
decline. His published work, ‘ Egypt’s Place in His- 
tory,’ in the original German and in English (which, 
though a translation, has the recommendation of pos- 
sessing the latest additions by his own hand), sets 


Zr. 37] INFIRMARY FOR PROTESTANTS AT ROME. 217 


forth his full testimony to the weighty import of the 
discoveries made. 

On ground adjoining that on which the Institute 
was established (previously covered by ruinous but 
not ancient buildings), Bunsen succeeded, after years 
of persevering labour, in establishing the Infirmary . 
for Protestants, for which (it will have been observed 
in passages of letters) Niebuhr had already ascertained 
the crying need. Among the host of difficulties with 
which Bunsen had to contend, was that of proving the 
necessity of thus securing for Protestants due care in 
illness and protection from the proselytising system 
pursued in the Roman Hospitals; for he was bound 
to avoid publicity, and not to incur the reproach of 
want of respect to existing powers. Contributions 
soon began to arrive, from Sovereigns and other men 
of mark in various Protestant countries—among 
which it is remembered that Bunsen had peculiar 
satisfaction in the very liberal, though unsolicited, 
contribution from Baron Rothschild. Mr. John Hills 
assisted the work by the loan of a considerable sum ; 
the Prussian Government granted munificent assist- 
ance; and slowly and gradually, in faith and patience, 
with unremitting exertion, was the ‘Casa Tarpea ’ 
completed, and permanently annexed to the chapel of 
the Legation ; comprising within its circumference 
not only the Infirmary, but also the rooms of the 
Institute for archeological correspondence, with con- 
venient places of abode for the ever-renewed colony of. 
German scholars in Rome, and enjoying the finest 
air (as is generally adtnitted by the popular voice) 
and a fine prospect from the garden, like the one 


218 =» -MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1829 


so well known and admiredfrom the Palazzo Caf- 
farelli. 

The Collegium Preuckianum was an old Roman 
Catholic foundation in Rome (originating in a bequest 
of a Baron von Preuck, belonging to one of the 
Prussian provinces), which the efforts of Bunsen re- 
stored to the effectual fulfilment of its object, in afford- 
ing to young Roman Catholic students the means of 
residing in Rome for a given time, to follow up their 
intellectual pursuits. The endowment had sunk into 
forgetfulness at home, and on the spot its lands and 
buildings were neglected, and its diminished revenues 
became as a stream lost in the sand. But by dint of 
an amount of pains and of patience which can hardly 
be imagined, much less described, the mystery of its 
seeming disappearance was unravelled, and the whole 
replaced-in a state of efficiency. Two distinguished 
young men— Ambrosch, who died many years later 
as Professor at Breslau, and Papencordt, early cut off 
in the prime of life and of literary promise,—were the 
first to profit by this restoration, and were each of 
them friends and cherished associates in Bunsen’s 
house. The more ardent the piety of a friend, the 
nearer would he be to the sympathies of Bunsen: only 
_ dogmatisers, of whatever religious persuasion, repelled 
him, and were repelled by him. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr, 
{ Translation. ] 24th January, 1829. 
The information that engravings cannot be admitted in 
your Review* has hastened the realisation of a plan which 


* BRheinisches Musenm fiir Philologie, edited by Niebuhr, 


Er.37] CORRESPONDENCE WITH NIEBUHR. —_219 


has occupied me for some time, but to which I have hitherto 
had an objection, lest it might have the appearance of 
rivalry with that work, or with the archzological portion 
of it. The Duc de Luynes, Gerhard, and Panofka worked 
hard last winter at the idea of a Society to bring out period- 
ical publications, the object of which should be the com- 
munication of facts from Italy and from transalpme writings 
in the field of archsology, and the ‘Journal de la Société 
Archéologique’ was to appear at Paris. I was not aware 
that there was any particular call for me to take an interest 
in this; but I proposed to re-form the plan into a publica- 
tion confined to monumenti inediti and notices of facts, to 
be published in Rome. The Crown Prince seized the idea 
at once, more especially with a view to securing a con- 
tinuation of topographical notes from Rome, and demanded 
of me to take the matter into my own hands, promising in 
that case to become its patron. Wherefore I have proposed 
to establish an ‘Instituto di Corrispondenza Archeologica,’ 
divided into sections, the central points of whieh are to be 
the principal towns of Europe, but the seat of the adminis- 
tration, Rome. The prospectus on the subject, issued this 
day from the press, is not worth your paying extra post- 
age for, as I can forward a copy of it by the next courier 
to Berlin. The main point is that we have already the first 
fascicolo completed, containing the walls of Norba witha 
plan of the city, the so-called Porta Saracmmesca of Segni, be- 
sides three interesting iediti of vase-paintings. The text, 
besides explanations and report of excavations, will comprise 
a description of the newly-found sepulchral paintings in 
Corneto, and announcements of Gell’s and Westphal’s maps 
of the Campagna—to which I intend to add an extract from 
your work on the Etruscans and their works of art. 


On the occasion of the obsequies of Pope Leo XIL., 
in the spring of 1829,%a very unexpected communica- 
tion of opinion was made by M. de Chateaubriand. 


220 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1829 


In that part of the ceremonial in which the deceased 
Pope is absolved in each of the clerical orders held 
by him during life, a procession moves slowly round 
the catafalgue upon which the remains are de- 
posited, headed by the singers of the Papal Chapel. 
While this lasts, the diplomatic body and others 
not officiating stand apart, and converse in low tones 
unhindered for a few minutes, until the proces- 
sion again moves on, which must again be followed 
till the next pause. On these occasions Chateau- 
briand and Bunsen could approach each other, and 
many were the subjects talked over, the only one 
that has transpired being the remarkable event 
of Catholic emancipation in Great Britain, closing 
apparently the national as well as Parliamentary 
debate of such long standing, upon which Chateau- 
briand observed, ‘ For the sake of human nature I 
must rejoice in this event; but as a Catholic I regret 
it: the Church may abandon, in the exultation of 
triumph, her accustomed caution,—and prepare for 
herself dangers in the future.’ 

The winter of 1830-31 was marked by the presence 
at Rome of Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy, whose de- 
lightful letters (lately published) reflect with per- 
fect truth the rare charm of his mind and character, 
and retracing the passing scenes of his happiness in 
Rome, tell yet more of the ‘fine spirit, thus finely 
touched, and to fine issues.’ Bunsen’s feelings to- 
wards that graceful embodiment of genius were high- 
wrought and faithful, and it was given to him to re- 
joice, as over a son, at a course of life from first to 
last so bright and pure. 


Ex. 38] HIS LIFE AT FRASCATI. 221 


In the course of the next few years, when Bunsen, 
fortunately for his family, was not called away from 
home to Berlin, the materials from his own hand to 
mark their tenour are scanty, intense as was the con- 
tinuous activity of his life. In 1828, the large apart- 
. ment on the first story of the Villa Piccolomini at 
Frascati was secured for a summer retreat, and en- 
joyed by the family in each succeeding year of their 
stay in Rome; and gratefully do the survivors look 
back upon a residence which afforded them all the 
luxury of the summer and of the climate. Other 
luxury, or even elegance, there was none; but the 
inmates were broken into the habit of feeling that 
space, fresh air, and walls thick enough to keep out 
the heat, constitute all that is strictly indispensable 
in a southern climate ; while the amount of objects of 
necessity, in furniture, &c., is small to those who are 
habituated to discard conventionalities. Happy was 
that long succession of bright summers; happy was 
Bunsen in the undisturbed exercise of his faculties in 
productive labour, in teaching his eldest sons, and 
superintending their studies ; happy in the relaxation 
and recreation furnished by that beautiful neighbour- 
hood ; happy in the society of chosen friends. 

The years 1829-30 were marked by a family re- 
union with Mrs. Waddington and Mr. and Mrs. Hall 
(afterwards Lord and Lady Llanvver), who spent the 
' winter and spring in Rome. 

In October, 1830, Bunsen and his family visited 
Naples; and after a lapse of five weeks, in which the 
line of Sir William ones, ‘to be ali eye, and see 
through every pore,’ indicates the kind, though not 


222 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1830 


the degree, of pleasure experienced, the party returned 
refreshed to Rome ‘and busy life again.’ 


Buneen to Niebuhr. 
[{ Translation. ] 19th April, 1830. 


...«. On the subject of our concerns here J have already 
written to you. I have had to carry through the whole nego- 
tiation without instructions, except a single Cabinet order, 
which gave me time till Easter, and in all things else full 
liberty of action: both to the great alarm of the worthy 
Raumer, and to the horror of Altenstein. The Papal Instruc- 
tion contains the following three points :— 

1. In all past cases (of mixed marriages) the Bishops are 
permitted to act freely, and to remedy what was wrong 
(sanare) without any clause about education : even where 
marriages in the first degrees of kindred have been concluded 
without a dispensation. 

2. From March 25, 1830, all mixed marriages concluded 
extra formam Ooncilii Tridentini are considered good—(im- 
plicitly, therefore, those also which were celebrated by a 
Protestant)—they are matrimonia rata et vera. 

3. The priest may permit marriage, even without having 
received any promise as to religious education. 

4, The Bishop in the same manner, in the cases when he 
may accord a dispensation to Catholics. 

The Brevi remain what they are, but the Instruction says 
nothing about them and their execution. 

I had promised that the ‘acte civil’ should be given up 
in case they entirely satisfied the King, and I succeeded in 
obtaining the above concessions, because I accepted them 
ad referendum only ; so that an appeal is made to the King’s 
generosity, while more is granted than ever was granted 
before. 

The form of expression is excellent, both in the reply and 
in the Instruction: it is the composition of the Pope him- 


Zér. 38] HIS COLLECTION OF GERMAN HYMNS. 223 


self (Pius VIII.) and of Cardinal Capellari,* with whom I 
have had conferences since the 19th January, without which 
nothing would have been accomplished. Both are men of 
honour, but the Pope full of scruples, and besides rather 
irritable. 

The question is now, whether the Bishops will execute 
the Brevi without the clause? I believe they will make no 
difficulty. The basis given is wider than the Bishops have 
ever had before. 

Together with the Brevi, I sent to Berlin an account 
which I had written of all the negotiations on these matters 
from the year 1772 to the present time. Init I have proved 
that your view of the subject has been that on which I 
conducted the negotiation; and I have demonstrated, by 
extracts from your statements, that nothing but Harden- 
berg’s negligence and delay prevented you from acting 
decisively while the negotiation was yet pending, and that, 
later, you were left without reply to your communications 
of December 1822. So much by way of supplement to my 
letter by the post. 


Bunsen to Niebuhr. 
[ Translation. ] 19th June, 1830. 

.... Your valued letter, received through Count Beust, 
brought me the first exact account of the great misfortunet 
that has befallen you, for the particulars in newspapers and 
private letters were so contradictory, and at the same time 
so distressing, that I shall ever be the more grateful to 
Countess Voss for having written to me from Fulda the 
certain intelligence that your MS. of Vol. IT. of the ‘Roman 
History’ was saved, all but the introduction. . 

My leisure is now principally devoted to the completion 
of my Collection of Hymns of the German Church, the first 
quarter of which will be printed by Perthes. I have collected 
and prepared the materials according to settled principles, 


* Cardinal Capellari becathe Pope later, as Gregory XVI. 
¢ The burning of Niebuhr’s house at Bonn. 


224 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1830 


and I believe I am working on a good foundation. Youare 
possibly not aware that you yourself, originally at Berlin 
and afterwards in Rome, excited my enthusiasm for this 
branch of greatest vitality in our religious life—this sole 
and single witness for the continuity of our literature; but 
I have never forgotten what you said, and I hope that my 
work, with all its imperfections, may not be wholly un- 
worthy of its originator. . 

As to what concerns our own Government, I am driven 
to despair by the slow progress of the affair of the mixed 
marriages in our Ministry of Public Worship. My reports 
were replete with proofs incontrovertible, or rather self-evi- 
dent, that the Bishops must be forthwith decided upon and 
installed, lest intrigues and objections should come between. 
Count Bernstorff, in spite of his ill health and domestic dis- 
tress, urged on the matter just as I desired and suggested ; 
and yet, six weeks after the arrival of Roestell, as courier, 
the report to the King had not yet been sent in. During 
this delay, and because of this delay, many things have 
altered for the worst. I shall not shrink from writing the 
truth to the King in one of my next opportunities by way of 
postscript. And yet in all this there is no ill intention, only 
want of energy ! 

My position here is in every respect (except the economi- 
cal, and this they give me hopes will be improved) more 
advantageous than I could ever have anticipated, and every- 
thing that, out of my own country, I could desire. To be 
enabled to remain on the Capitol is an essential portion of 
my happiness, and the plan of making the acquisition of this 
property for the Crown is in good progress: the King has 
entered fully into it, and the sum received for the former 
intended purchase on the Quirinal is to be devoted to its 
execution. 

As often as my wife and I dwell on the consciousness of 
our happy condition, our thoughts turn to you, whom we 
have to thank for so many benefits, who have ever been 


ZEr. 39] LAST LETTER TO NIEBUHR. 225 


much and sometimes allin all tous. You must therefore 
allow me once for all to express this. 


Bunsen’s Last Letter to Niebuhr. 
[{ Translation. ] Rome: 7th October, 1830. 


I write on the point of starting for Naples, perhaps just 
before the closing of the gates there. At Paris, 1688 is 
come more quickly and more terribly than I expected. 
Those who sought to push backwards the chariot-wheels of 
the history of nations may now stand and behold how they 
have literally rolled back, though not in the direction which 
they intended. The work of 1814 and 1815 is destroyed, 
like an unravelled web. 

It is said that we are to have Chateaubriand here again ; 
his fencing in the air in honour of the Duc de Bordeaux 
was much less to my mind than the declaration of Fitz- 
james. Had Chateaubriand been thoroughly in earnest, and 
not bent on rhetorical effect and stage-heroism, why not 
attack the single vulnerable and inexcusable point of the 
late Revolution—the abrogation of the right of inheritance 
of the younger branch ? Jord Somers and his friends were 
indeed men of a far higher description. I must remain 
convinced, that no real 1688 is possible without a previous 


Many young Frenchmen here say that the present des- 
potism is more hateful to them than that which preceded it. 


Bunsen to Brandis. 
[ Translation. ] Rome: 22nd January, 1831. 


Your terrible intelligence of the death of Niebuhr struck 
me like lightning from a blue sky. I opened the letter 
without anticipation of its frightful contents, in spite of the 
black seal, for I knew that mourning was in your house ; 
but at the first mention of Niebuhr’s name I was seized with 
anguish, for ever since the receipt of his last letter I had 
been conscious of an inexplicable sadness, which I en- 

VOL. I. Q 


226 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1831 


deavoured to explain by the melancholy tone of the letter 
and of its prophetic utterances, and, what to you only would 
I mention, by my having not long since awakened from a 
dream about Niebuhr in tears and agitation—a thing which 
never happened to me before. My soul must have felt that 
a portion of its life was about to be torn away. 

With me, ever since the first independent awakening of 
mind, in the years 1811 to 1815, Niebuhr’s name and in- 
dividuality was the ideal that drew me onwards. My 
acquaintance with you urged further on the fire of youth- 
ful enthusiasm ; and you know what a fixed point it was in 
my purposes, previous to my intended Asiatic journey, to 
behold Niebuhr face to face. And how much more did I 
find (from November 1815 to January 1816) than I had 
ever anticipated, both of soul and of mind! and yet what 
was this compared to the meeting with him in Florence,—to 
his reception of me in Rome! Could a father do more for 
a son than Niebuhr did for me? Whom have I to thank 
for my household happiness, for the blessing of home never 
sufficiently to be estimated and acknowledged ? Whom to 
thank for a position in the country, towards which, in the 
days of common misfortune, my strongest wishes had been 
directed ? And if these personal bonds of gratitude were 
not enough to attach me for ever to that great man’s me- 
mory, who is there that I have honoured and admired like 
him, as the pattern of excellence and dignity of soul? All 
this passed through my mind while I glanced over your 
tale of woe. I sunk under grief as I have never sunk 
before : and when I roused myself to a consciousness of 
the loss experienced, it seemed as though it could not be 
a reality. To fancy myself without him—the fatherland 
without him—science, the world, without him—-was what 
I could not take in, because it seemed intolerable. For so 
many years accustomed to do nothing, to decide nothing, 
without his counsel, or at least without considering—what 
Niebuhr would say to it? what his judgment would be? 
The mainspring of the soul’s consciousness seemed snapped 


ZEr. 39] HIS GRIEF AT THE DEATH OF NIEBUHR. 227 


through. T am recovering but slowly from the blow; I 
wished to reply immediately to your letter, but could not. 
The Pharos has vanished in the storm, and I cannot yet 
learn to steer without it... .. 

I imagine his dying like Burke, in sadness as to the 
future of the world; and like Pitt, with the sigh or eja- 
culation, ‘My country ! how I love my country!’ His mental 
affinity to Burke, in political views, was always clear to me. 

Think me not ungrateful for what you have communicated, 
if I entreat you very soon to write me a fuller account of 
his last days—every dying word would be sacred to me, 
every detail precious. Tell me how much he caused to be 
read to him of the ‘ Description of Rome ?’ How it is with 
the MS. of the third volume of his Roman History and other 
preparatory writings ? How with the Notes of his lectures ? 
Did he speak of the whole Roman History ? His spirit was 
in its glory when he described the grand periods of the 
Republic—the times of the Gracchi, of Marius, of Cicero, 
and of Cvesar ; when he shed unanticipated light over great 
characters and events apparently familiar. Is this to be 
all lost in the dying away of the root ? 

As to the philological-antiquarian portion of his intellec- 
tual store I am less afraid; he will certainly have shed 
fruitful seed into receptive minds. But in historical matters 
it is far more difficult to seize the perceptions of historical 
genius ; indeed, for youths at the University it is impossible. 
And this is yet more true of his views and enquiries on 
finance and political economy. For his political Minutes (the 
best of which, in his own opinion, lies in the Archives of 
Holland) the time is not yet come to collect and publish 
them ; but it will come. . 

Before all other things, write to me more of yourself, be- 
loved friend! You ought to do something decisive for your 
health, and not, as usual, prepare yourself for a course of 
waters by redoubled labokr beforehand. Cast away from 
you the self-imposed burden, as far as possible, and re- 

Q 2 


228 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1831 


taining only a sufficiency of ballast, sail onwards. Publish 
of your Aristotelica what you have ready, and be convinced 
that sooner are a hundred scholars to be found capable of 
gleaning after you than one in a condition to carry in the 
general harvest. I become ever more sure of this fact, when 
I see how few men, in any and all times, have been of force 
and capacity to accomplish more than paving and treading 
a road traced out before them... .. 

In this letter shall I write of myself? I cannot leave 
unanswered the passage you write concerning me. I have 
taken in hand, yesterday and to-day, as the first work I was 
capable of in my present lacerated condition, the reading 
through of the four letters you objected to,—in presence of 
Niebuhr’s venerated manes. Of what use is it to contend ? 
IT must just tell you how I view the matter. My object 
was to show those who have concocted the official Hymn 
Books the unsound foundation upon which they stand. . . 
The nuisance of the alteration and deterioration of the 
ancient hymns is great and universal. I have exaggerated 
nothing. . . . When I reprint my four letters, I shall ab- 
stain from all personal recrimination, although many pas- 
sages offer great temptation, particularly that which speaks 
of the privilege of those who ‘occupy the pulpit.’ I sup- 
pose that means the privilege of distorting and wresting the 
words of other men, as though they were texts of Scripture : 
habeat sib... . . 


Bunsen to the Widow of Niebuhr, at Bonn. (Written imme- 
diately on recewing the intelligence of his death, but not re- 
cewed at Bonn till after she also had expired.) 


{ Translation. ] Rome: 22nd January, 1831. 


In the midst of your anguish, you cannot forbid the ap- 
proach of the children who weep for the loss of their father, 
and supplicate the mother to live for their sake: and thus 
may I also approach to mourn with you; for I, too, have 
lost a father, and am impelled to lay my grief at the feet of 


Er. 39} LETTER TO NIEBUHR’S WIDOW. 229 


his innermost life’s companion. Since I entered upon an in- 
dependent position, my own beloved and revered parents 
have been taken from me, and I have been called upon to 
bury two children, one of them, the peculiar darling of my 
heart, in a foreign soil. But yet no stroke of death has so 
moved my inmost soul as this last. It seemed to me as 
though the thread on which my whole consciousness rested, 
had been cut through: and how should it have been other- 
wise? How could a father do more, or be more to a son, 
than the great man, your husband, now passed away into 
eternity, did and was tome? With his own great and un- 
spotted name, and his own honour, did he, as it were, pledge 
himself for me, in the founding, first of my domestic life, 
secondly of my position in the State: and what devoted vene- 
ration is not due from me to his character and his memory, 
independently of the childlike love and gratitude which out- 
weigh all other feelings, and must bind me ever to him! 

What I have lost in him, nothing can replace ; and in the 
same complaint, the whole of science, the cause of human 
culture, the King, the fatherland, Europe at large, may join. 
But nothing can come up to the loss which you, most 
honoured friend, and your children have sustained! The 
keenest pain is that of the heart which wads most closely 
bound up with all that was most excellent and most emi- 
nent in the world, and whose very being was merged in his ; 
for to that heart the pang is hardest to bear of the separa- 
tion which attends all earthly conditions—and this is your 
lot, your anguish. But therein hes also your consolation, 
or the possibility of consolation; what 1s immortal and im- 
perishable has only been removed; it has not been torn 
away hopelessly or for ever; and when by this ray of faith 
the darkness is dispelled, then only can the unspeakable 
value of such a possession, with all the blessings which ema- 
nate from it, and extend beyond all space and time, fully 
rise upon the memory, sot to increase the pain of privation, 
but to soothe suffering by childlike thankfulness. 


230 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1831 


May it please God to preserve your precious hfe to those 
beloved children to whom the heart of the departed clung 
with such tenderness! ... We, the spiritual children of 
the great Niebuhr, can but follow you with respectful attach- 
ment, thankful if we are not found to disgrace his paternal 
friendship, and more thankful still if we shall be enabled to 
prove to you and yours on the pathway of life the devoted- 
ness and boundless gratitude with which, from the bottom 
of my heart, I remain, ... 

BUNSEN. 
Lixtracts from Contemporary Letters. 
Frascati: 15th October, 1831. 

Bunsen has been at Castel Gandolfo to wait upon the Pope 
(Gregory XVI.) who makes his autumnal villeggiatura 
there ; and after having received him (as ever) graciously, 
the Pope desired he would remain to dine with the Cardinal, 
the Maggior Duomo, and others of the suite. At dessert, the 
Pope came in himself, but his meals he takes alone, not to 
make ostentation of keeping to his monk’s fare; otherwise, 
as being in the country, he might, without sinning against 
rule, dine with other mortals, which in Rome is forbidden. 
The Pope entered into conversation, and was very animated, 
the whole party being so full of October cheerfulness that it 
was @ most original spectacle to be witnessed by the new 
Secretary of Legation, Herr von Sydow, only just arrived in 
the country. 


The personal predilection and kindness of Pope 
Gregory towards Bunsen, from the time of the friendly 
transactions during the reign of Pius VIII., when, as 
Cardinal Mauro Capellari, he was in the habit of 
having frequent conferences with him, rendered the 
subsequent change the more painful, when in 1836 
the Pope was induced by misrepresentations from the 
_Ultramontane clique, and the confounding of different 


ZEr. 40] SIR WALTER SCOTT. 231 


documents, neither of which proceeded from Bunsen, 
to believe in a purposed deception practised on him 
by Bunsen, trusting neither his explanations nor his 
solemn denial. 


Extract from a Contemporary Letter. 
10th May, 1832. 


We saw Sir Walter Scott often during the first week of 
his being here. The first time of meeting a shock was 
caused, as 1 was not prepared for his difficulty in speaking ; 
but, though his animation is gone, his conversation is much 
of the same sort as formerly, therefore most interesting and 
original, and his expression of goodness and benevolence 
truly venerable, in the midst of physical decay. He one day 
dined with us, with his daughter, Sir William Cell and 
Miss Mackenzie being the rest of the party. Bunsen had 
taken into consideration what subject would be interesting 
to Sir Walter Scott, and knowing that popular poetry had 
always attracted him, he sought out the German ballads 
so enthusiastically sung during the ‘ War of Liberation’ in 
1813, and after giving him an idea of the sense, made Henry 
and Ernest sing them. Sir Walter was evidently pleased, 
and observed of that noble struggle, quoting a verse of the 


‘Requiem,’ ‘ Tantus labor non sit cassus!’ He called the 
two boys to him, and laid a hand upon the head of each, 
with a solemn utterance of ‘God bless you!’ He gave us 


@ kindly worded invitation to visit him when we should 
come to England, saying, ‘I have had losses; much is 
changed ; but I have still ‘‘my two gowns, and all things 
handsome about me,” as Dogberry says.’ At taking leave 
he said, ‘I hope your own feelings will be your reward, for 
all the kindness and hospitality you have shown me.’ Once 
after this we found him at home, making a morning visit. 
I brought him a set of yordinary engravings, called devo- 
tional, relating of course to Madonna-worship, such as are 
universally spread about Rome, and he made the observation, 


232 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1832 


‘It ought to be a pure and mild religion, which finds its 
objects in a young woman and a child, the loveliest of human 
beings.’ I was not a little shocked by this tolerance, and 
of course made no reply ; but on reflection I make out that 
he meant to indicate a truth, though a one-sided truth. The 
mercy, indulgence, sympathy, which the struggling soul 
would seek in the invisible Arbiter of faith, are equally ex- 
cluded by Romanist practice and Calvinistic principle, from 
the conception of the Eternal Father, from Him ‘who is 
good unto all, and whose tender mercies are over all His 
works ;’ the Blessed Son, who ‘ Himself bore our iniquities,’ 
is represented as the inexorable Judge, driving the trembling 
sinner into unquenchable fire ; and the tenderness which the 
mind craves, and must find (on pain of losing its balance 
in the madness of despair), clusters round the image of a 
woman and a mother, too soft and lenient to condemn even 
sin, and only earnest in her interposition against its deserved 
punishment. Sir Walter is to depart in two days, if not 
made quite ill by the excursion intended for to-day, when 
Sir W. Gell will take him to Bracciano, driving from ten 
o’clock in the burning sun twenty-five miles. He ought not 
to have remained so late in the South; but although those 
around him are nervously anxious about his state, no healthy 
regulation would seem to be enforced. One anecdote more 
of him, on occasion of a morning visit, when Bunsen found 
him alone, with his emaciated-looking son Charles, silent 
and unoccupied, in a corner. Sir Walter asked questions 
about Gothe, and about his son, who died at Rome in 1830. 
Bunsen avoided giving the particulars of the manner of his 
death, caused by habits of intoxication, merely saying that 
‘the son of Gothe had nothing of his father but the name;’ 
and was startled by Sir Walter slowly turning his head 
towards his son, with the words, ‘Why, Charles, that is 
what people will be saying of you!’ Alas! this wreck of 
' # young man is the same being that I remember such an 
engaging child at Edinburgh in 1810! 


ZET. 40] MEMORANDUM OF MAY 21, 1831. 233 


It will have been observed in the letters of the 
year 1820, that in the Neapolitan Revolution of that 
date Niebuhr had not been able to discern any other 
cause than those workings of the Jacobinical spirit of 
destruction which he believed were only to be sup- 
pressed by force. But when, ten years later, after the 
events of the Three Days at Paris, the whole of Cen- 
tral Italy was in a state of insurrection, a different 
view of the condition of things, which had led to such 
efforts to bring about a change, had made itself clear 
to the mind of Bunsen, who had then become used to 
see with his own eyes and draw his own conclusions 
from facts, which had brought home even to the con- 
sciousness of some Continental Governments the ne- 
cessity of removing by reform in administration the 
stimulus to periodical disturbance. When, therefore, 
the Papal authority had been re-established by the 
military intervention of Austria in the central pro- 
vinces, the chiefs of the diplomatic missions at Rome 
were charged by their respective Governments to 
meet in Conference, the object of which was to present 
a respectful remonstrance to the Pope; and hence 
proceeded that Memorandum of May 21, 1831, so 
often referred to in later years, which was drawn up 
by Bunsen at the request of the collective members 
of the Conference. 

For a time Bunsen flattered himself with the hope 
of seeing the suggestions contained in this Memo- 
randum carried into practice. Papal decrees, em- 
bodying the recommendations of the Memorandum, 
were actually shown to him and his colleagues im 
print, and ready for immediate publication. But it 


234 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1832 


soon became evident that secret influences were at 
work, sufficient to have paralysed even a heartier 
good will towards the restoration of ancient muni- 
cipal liberties than the Pope had ever felt. At length 
the Governments were informed that Austria had 
entered her protest against the removal of grievances 
among the subjects of the Pope, on the ground that 
if such an example were given, her own system of 
government and suzeraineté in the rest of Italy would 
be endangered or rendered impracticable. Nothing 
whatever of all that had been proposed, was carried 
out—not even the plan of reform of judicial pro- 
ceedings, ostensibly proposed by the Austrian Go- 
vernment through M. de Sebregondis, which may yet 
be seen, skilfully worded in all its details, in many 
folio volumes, in the Roman archives. 

On the unlooked-for occupation of Ancona by the 
French, Bunsen assumed a mediatorial part, not un- 
welcome to the Roman Court, which wished to avoid 
a crisis, and was obliged to be content with enveloping 
the undiplomatic event in a diplomatic form. His 
conduct, at first, gave offence at Vienna, and even at 
Berlin, until the results were found so convenient 
that it was judged best to make use of them. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
30th June, 1832. 


We are now settled in the country, and four months 
(120 days) open before me, with the prospect of undis- 
turbed domestic happiness and literary employment. I 
have resumed my hours of instruction to the boys, particu- 
larly to my dear Henry, who deserves every moment and 
every word I can bestow upon him. Nothing is like his 


fer. 41] LETTER TO PERTZ. 230 


zeal and attachment. . . .The Berlin gossip, that I am to 
become Minister of Ecclesiastical Affairs, which has gone 
through the public papers, is more honourable than prob- 
able, and more flattering than profitable, as it operates 
as a new stimulus to envy; and I think the matter now as 
impossible as the King’s causing me to fly; because I know 
not my country enough to be equal to administration, until 
I shall have been a number of years in it. I must give an 
instance of my dear, excellent King’s paternal feeling 
towards me, which I have only just learnt. When Count 
Bernstorff proposed to His Majesty to grant me an increase 
of salary, he joined with it the proposal to confer the rank 
of Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary : 
when the King answered, ‘ Give him the additional money 
without the higher rank, which might oblige him to incur 
new expenses, and thus do away with the essential help I 
wish to afford him.’ 


Bunsen to Pertz. 
[ Translation. ] Frascati: 3rd June, 1833. 


After a long silence I at last greet you,—who have been 
drawn nearer than ever in late years to me in mind, 
although, alas! from a far distance—to offer you the first 
public result of my literary attempts, the commencement of 
which you know of old—in my ‘Book of Hymns and 
Prayers.’ You will discern the fatherland in the object as 
well as in the treatment of it, and you will read much 
between the lines, if your occupations allow you time to 
cast an eye over the work. I recommend it, therefore, to 
your friendship. ... I am urged to say a word to you 
upon our eternal concerns, and | wish I could speak with 
power on the subject, as a means of expressing my sense of 
the obligation I feel for your excellent periodical publication. 
I am proud of it, as your friend, and as a Cerman; and I 
esteem and honour the position you take. My heart 1s 
often ready to burst with longing after the beloved father- 


236 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1833 


land, and the small number of those who know, like 
yourself, what is best for it. You have fearlessly expressed 
that we can only be helped by efforts from within, from 
the centre of our national and historical consciousness, by 
a noble union of princes and people; that on this track 
outward power and strength, as well as inward prosperity 
and well-doing, may certainly be attained. That such is my 
conviction, you know: how it has been expanded and con- 
firmed in later years, I should wish to express, if time and 
Space were not wanting: could I do so, though we might 
differ on single points, I believe we should become the more 


‘clearly aware of the deep foundation of a common under- 


standing. Ever since my establishment in the independent 


‘exercise of a public charge, I have maintained and professed 


the belief, that the States which Ranke comprises under 
the term Romanic are hopelessly out of joint in consequence 
of the state of inward contradiction, in which they have 
been since the sixteenth century; that revolution proceeded 


| from the death-struggle against a despotism both spiritual 


aw 


and administrative, unknown to the middle ages, proceeding 
from the absolutism of sovereigns, nobility, and priesthood ; 
that this could only bring forth anarchy, and therefore 
military despotism; and that a true restoration could only 
have been possible, if a new element of life had come in, 
with power to reconcile, unite, and overrule the evil influ- 
ences; clearing away the ancient guilt and the ancient 
curse, and restoring reciprocal confidence, mutuam fidem. 
Only upon this ground can a regeneration of former rela- 
tions take place, such as we all need ; of the ancient rela- 
tions (of society), I mean, founded in our history and 
national habits, but renovated by the new social require- 
ments. Yet that has proved impossible in France; the 
history of the Restoration has set its seal upon my convic- 
tion that there 1s a fundamental contrast between the two 
halves of the civilised world. With us, on the contrary, 
all is still possible, but what is possible is also indispensable. 


seewre aweneeg 


Er. 41) LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 237 


The problem may and must be solved; but only in that 
way can it be solved. | 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold.* 
Rome: Idibus Martiis, 1833. 


. L have in mind written volumes to you; most of 
my thoughts about England in this momentous crisis are 
embodied in discussions with you. Consider what I am 
about to write as fragments out of those volumes; pray 
supply the proof of assertions to which you assent, and 
refute, in your answer, what you think erroneous. 

I must begin with thanking you for your letters on 
Reform, for you have rendered me a great service by them ; 
first, by the information and delight they have given me in 
themselves, and then by bringing me back to my original 
feeling, viz. that our opinion could scarcely differ toto celo 
as it appeared fora time. I think I should, had I lived in 
England, have taken a different line as to the persons 
addressed. I should, perhaps, have written letters to your 
Tories to show them the necessity of a bond fide efficient 
Reform ; I should have endeavoured to prove to them that 


eee 7 


to their idea, “of preserving an establishment by keeping 
to the spirit rather than to the letter, and by whetting the 
edge of the reforming knife neither against the glowing 
steel of passion nor against the rotten wood of interest, but 
against the exalted ideal of those who founded and trans- 
mitted it to our care. So far our line would have been 
different ; not that I am sanguine as to the effect that rea- 
soning and exhortation may be able to produce upon stub- 
bornness, self-interest, and the wrong pride of well-grounded 
right no, my dear friend — much experience has in the 
latter years of my life removed this delusion. But because 


* This letter and all subsequent ones addressed to Dr. Arnold were 
written in English. 


238 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1833 


I have once for ever set down for myself the principle (and 
I trust in God I shall in the hour of danger not abandon it), 
never to allow myself to be driven to the destructive side 
by the folly of those who ought to preserve, and who both 
destroy and prepare destruction by their blindness and in- 
fatuation and self-interestedness. But for this vow, I be- 
lieve I might long since have become a Jacobin. Yet I can 
conceive that others feel not this danger, neither for their 
own soul nor for the cause they wish earnestly to serve. 
Resolved as I am, although often with a reluctant mind, to 
hold on to the last wreck of historical liberty, rather than 
to embark on the double-pressure steam-engine of that of 
1789; rather to drive the nail through the rotten wood 
into my own hand, than to take out one peg from the 
stranding vessel, I can respect and love those who feel 
courage and vocation to seek safety in the course of events, 
to fill out the emptiness and shallowness of their party by 
the substantial weight of their wisdom and virtue. You 
have done so nobly. You can no more than I, approve the 
tendency of levelling principles, of unhistorical, dead, and 
deadening uniformity, nor think a principle of power, ac- 
cording to majority in population, other than fraught with 
evil; nor can you, in general, make to yourself any illusion 
about the main point, that durability and preservation 
cannot be built upon destruction and negation. Possibly, 
one who belongs to those unfortunate exclusively Catholic 
countries of the Romanic nations, may in our time arrive at 
the point of waiving all considerations, from the conviction 
that the past is irrevocably rotten, that the actually existing 
is without foundation, and without hope, either in Heaven 
or on earth. But that cannot be the case with you, the son 
of great Albion, the pride of Europe, and the triumph of 
Teutonic and of Christian hberty—who alone through a 
thousand years has retained the instinct of life, and known 
the mystery of creation, by making old things new, by 
clinging to the past, while calling forth a new manifestation 


ZET. 42] LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 239 


of existence. Not you, the historian of Rome, mighty 
rather by and through this wisdom than by force of arms 
and victories; not you, the antagonist of that dissolving 
atheism, political and religious, of 1789 ; not you, who will 
never bend the knee before the Trinity of the Utilitarians— 
the idol of shallowness—in which Washington is the Father, 
Franklin the Son, Steam the IIvetza; and, further, La- 
fayette the John, Robespierre the Paul, and Napoleon the 
Mahomet! 

In this conviction I read your Lectures with rapture, 
whether you astonished your hearers by praise of the bless- 
ings of aristocracy and Church, or whether you pointed out, 
unsparingly but without exaggeration, the rooted evils of the 
present state of things. As to some expressions in one of 
the letters, which were painful to me, I forgot not in what 
a moment they were written, and that in a free country no 
one can make a party for himself, but must adopt a party 
ready-made, if he feels the strength and will to influence his 
fellow-citizens. .... 


To the Same. 
Rome: 21st January, 1834. 


. .. I had the happiness of receiving a new letter from 
you, through Augustus Hare, who arrived the day before 
yesterday ; | am sorry to say in a very precarious state of 
health. To-morrow Lord Ashley sets out for Hngland, and 
IT avail myself of his kindness to secure the safe arrival of 
this letter. 

Accept first my thanks for the many, many signs and 
proofs of a friendship which has long since become a neces- 
sity of my heart. The first to be mentioned is your letter 
of May 1833, in answer to two of mine. Your protest 
against any association with one of the Demons of our age 
could not be made with greater force of argument and 
feeling, than in your publighed letters themselves, which I 
have read over and over again. The law of nature, that no 


wo ee 


240 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1834 


plant can grow without having a soil in which to fix itself, 
is not more certain than that of the spirit, that nothing new 
can be set up which has not its roots in the past, and 1s not 


. engrafted upon the eternal principles of the good, and the 
' right, and the just. That is the sense of what we call the 


historical principle. I disavow as much as yourself the 
principle of ‘letting well alone,’ supposing well can be what 
is in direct opposition to the principle of its existence. I 
feel as keenly as yourself, that it 1s insufficient to consider 
institutions merely in an historical and practical point of 
view, without ascending to principles, whenever the in- 
ternal feeling of life, which is the great mental sensoriwm, 
begins to fail and is in need of being refreshed by a new 
infusion of intellectual vigour, in order to counteract the 
assaults of an ill-disposed and degraded understanding. 
The higher the institution in question stands in the scale 
of intellectual and spiritual importance, the more necessary, 
in such epochs, is this reference to original principle. I 
further assert that our time is one that wants to be reformed 
by the right principle, as having been corrupted by false 
principles. But J insist that the historical principle alone 
can save us both from corruption and from destruction. I 
mean by this expression the going back to the real germ of 
the institution in question, not an abstract notion, but such 
as enables us to recognise the spirit of the institution in all 
the phases of its development: thus bringing us to the real, 
that is theoretical, historical, practical understanding of that 
phase which it is our task to restore. It is my inmost con- 
viction, that there is no institution of a higher order in 
ancient Europe, more particularly in the Church, which 
does not on the one hand want reform, and on the other 
require remoulding out of its own principle, and out of its 
own and other congenial elements and materials. . . I could 
not, in Church matters, feel confidence to alter a straw, if I 
did not stand firm on a scriptural basis, and had not the 
conviction that the alteration or reform proposed was a 


Er. 42] LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 241 


higher development of the Divine religion of Christ, and 
therefore also a calling to a higher life than that which it 
might seem to abrogate or modify ; and finally, if I was not 
convinced that the time is come, when that institution or 
Church must either be reformed, or perish, by that same 
Divine right which it justly claims for its existence. 
Should then, under such conditions, s reform be under- 
taken, all existing establishments must be examined un- 
sparingly as to what they are, rigidly as to what they 
ought to be, candidly as to what they could be, hopefully as 
to what they might be madetobe. That nothing can stand 
and remain as to the letter, and nothing ought to be changed 
as to spirit and principle, in so far as both can be proved by 
Scripture and history, will be the absolute and invariable 
result. This I supposed, when, sixteen years ago, on the 
anniversary of our glorious Reformation, I began with trem- 
bling hands to sweep the dust from the steps before the 
sanctuary ; this I have found to be positive truth, by the 
events of the last ten years, and by the results of my own 
fragmentary and imperfect but sincere researches and en- 
deavours. My principle is, not to sanction abuse, not ta 
seek to breathe life into a corpse, not to crush, or retard, or 
oppose reform ; not to represent the historical result as a 
definite existence—but as a point to start from, and as a 
preparation and transition to the new. It is as absurd to 
endeavour to bring back past ages, as to preserve the de- 
cayed leaves of our own autumn; but it 1s certain that no 
good can be done for the future, except by wisely connecting 
it with the past, which can only be done by bringing the 
pieces of metal into the fire, that, in the state of liquefaction, 
they may coalesce. 

. Butis the time come? (for reform of Liturgy and 
Kvticies) I believe the time 7s come, in so far as that the neces- 
sity is urgent to consider the matter above and before any- 
thing else. This consideration will show, that independently 
of all external circumstances, and of all expediency, there 


VOL. I. BR 


242 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [i834 


are internal reasons and arguments enough at hand to prove 
that the Liturgy may be more perfect, and thatit must now 
be revised, because it offers the only means of bringing 
about a more glorious manifestation of Christian spirit and 
the reign of Christ than before. How do I long to discuss 
such arguments with you! I feel angry with every word I 
write, because either I say what you have expressed yourself 
infinitely better, or I may seem to contradict you without 
giving reasons, when I am only cutting for myself a road 
through the thicket to join yours. But that is the blessing 
and privilege of real friendship, that neither of these cases 
can preclude mutual understanding. 

I have received Archbishop Whately’s letter, and such a 
one as makes me ashamed of myself, when I consider the 
partial opinion which your kindness and his own have given 
him of my person, but which it would be hypocrisy to say 
had not given me high gratification and I trust, also, edi- 
fication, because it has increased my consciousness of the 
spiritual communion of all members of Christ’s Church, and 
_my courage to devote all I have and am to the service of 
, Him who thus unites us. 

. . .. For your testimony to Niebuhr I feel more thank- 
ful than almost anybody else living can be, and I say this 
even though your friendship has alluded in the same passage 
to myself, in a manner that can only humble me. It is too 
important that such fanatical ignorance as has been shown 
here and there, in the writings of some of your countrymen 
should be put down as soon as possible. Niebuhr’s charac- 
ter in England could not be safer than in the hands of Hare, 
Thirlwall, and yourself. ... . 

P.S. On reading through my letter, I cannot reconcile 
myself to send it in so unsatisfactory a state, as respects my 
no-remarks on your Church reform. Let me state explicitly, 
that a union with the Dissenters ‘who worship Christ ’ 1s 
what I bear in mind these fifteen years as to my own country, 
and the Church in general. We must come to that, if God 


ZEr. 42) LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 243 


will save us and our countries. It will take place, once 
and somewhere, on earth. Blessed the land and Church 
who effect it, who throw off the yoke of doctrine and ritual 
tyranny, too long exercised by those who should be united 
in Christ and who ought to believe in facts, revealed and 
transmitted, not in words and abstractions ‘and formuls 
substituted for or annexed to them. These may be good, 
may be necessary, as disciplinary regulations for peculiar 
times, and nations, or societies: but they stand on another 
ground. I believe or disbelieve what is given to me by 
evidence of witnesses (and here one of the two witnesses is 
within us), but I assent to or dissent from what is established 
by reasoning upon, and drawing consequences from, divinely 
revealed facts, by application of the mental operations 
suited to other subjects. Let us never give up this glorious 
hope, nor even the courageous struggle. It is one of the 
few things in the world that rouse all my thoughts, and all 
the energy of which I am capable. 

I agree with you as to the necessity of allowing, even in 
that test of unity, the Liturgy, a certain latitude ; not, how- 
ever, on the ground of expedicncy, but on the higher ground 
of Christian wisdom and charity. . . . I claim liberty for ex- 
tempore prayer, liberty for silent prayer, liberty for abridg- 
ing the Liturgy, liberty for baptizing infants (provided 
you confirm them afterwards, as we do in Germany, by the 
most solemn act of human life, after the most solemn pre- 
paration, before the whole congregation), or adults; but 
not for expediency. 


To the Same. 


Rome: 19th February, 1834. 


My last letter having come too late to be conveyed by 
Lord Ashley, I have-been obliged to wait another opportu- 
nity. In the meantime, our dear Augustus Hare has left us. 
When this arrives, you will already have known that he 
expired yesterday, in a state of perfect bliss. He had given 

R2 


244, MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1834 


previous directions that he should be buried by the side of 
my children. I saw him twice, and loved him from the first 
moment, His thoughts were always with his friends, his 
country, his Church, but above all, and up to the last 
moment, with his Saviour. Fequiescat in pace! His excel- 
lent. wife has shown herself worthy of such a husband... . 


JET, 42] JOURNEY TO BERLIN. 245 


CHAPTER VIL. 


DIFFERENCES BETWEEN PRUSSIA AND ROME. 


JOURNEY TO BERLIN-——-MIXED MARRIAGES-——RELIGIOUS STATE OF GERMANY 
-—-NEW TESTAMENT STUDIES—QUARREL OF THE COURT OF PRUSSIA AND 
THE COURT OF ROME—INTERVIEW WITH THE KING—-THE CHOLERA AT 
ROME—BUNSEN LEAVES ROME. 


In the month of May, 1834, Bunsen set out for Ger- 
many, on leave of absence demanded for the pur- 
pose of taking his two eldest sons, one to Schulpforte 
in Prussian Saxony, the other to the Military Col- 
lege (Cadettenhaus) at Berlin. Weighty and anxious 
business, touching the marriages between Protestants 
and Catholics and the negotiations with the Roman 
See, was awaiting him in the Prussian capital. 

He was met with the truest kindness and confi- 
dence on the part of the King and of the Crown 
Prince. There was, in short, such unusual demonstra- 
tion of favour from the former, and such effusion of af- 
fection from the latter (not only in private meetings, 
but as it were publicly proclaimed), to be quite suffi- 
cient to account for the almost undisguised hostility 
which he encountered in other regions of power or 
influence, and to explain the unflinching courage 
which, grounded on explicit royal commands and 
fortified by consciousress of royal sympathies, carried 
him through an independent line of conduct which 


246 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1834 


laid him open to every adverse influence as soon as 
his back was turned upon Berlin. 

An opportunity will occur further on for explain- 
ing the circumstances which led to an estrangement 
between the Prussian Government and the Court of 
Rome. In this place it will be sufficient to point out 
in Bunsen’s own words the peculiar difficulties with 
which he had to struggle during his brief stay at 
Berlin in 1884. 

The following is an extract from notes written 
subsequently, in the year 1840 :— 


Extract from Retrospective Notes, written by Bunsen in 1840. 
[ Translation. ] 


The affair in question was the joint concern of two sub- 
divisions of Offices of State—that of Foreign Affairs and 
that of Public Worship, as well as of the Cabinet Council. 
The first-named had taken little note of spiritual interests 
since the retirement of Her von Raumer (with whom Bun- 
sen had conferred in 1827); an Under-Secretary alone was 
concerned in them. Hichhorn was engrossed by excess of 
labour in other directions; Biilow encountered the subject 
with misgiving, for the will of the Ministry of Public Wor- 
ship was sure to prevail, either by checking the action of the 
other through non-action, or by appealing to the Cabinet 
—the consequence of conferences with Schmedding (the 
Catholic Under-Secretary) being always a word of obstruc- 
tion from Count Lottum or from Prince Wittgenstein, the 
King’s Cabinet Secretaries. . . . 

The affair being thus left without guidance and ignored 
on the part of the Ministers, how was it regarded by the 
Cabinet? The King himself bore it in mind, and often re- 
monstrated, but was accustomed to find his remonstrances 
fruitless, except in giving occasion to a lengthened commen-. 


2r.42] RETROSPECTIVE POLITICAL NOTES. $247 


tary from the hand of Altenstein, stating fully the manifold 
lines of possible action, and the weighty objections to each 
—which the decision of His Majesty could alone obviate. 
Count Lottum was powerless against the dead-lock of 
Altenstein, except that he was sometimes moved to protest 
against the priestcraft attributed to Schmedding. Prince 
Wittgenstein, lastly, from want of belief in the strength of 
the religious element, considered the whole matter insig- 
nificant, and possibly, from the existing antagonistic in- 
fluences, incapable of solution. That many difficulties will 
solve themselves, if only not meddled with, was a maxim (and 
the only one) inherited from the late Chancellor of State, 
Prince Hardenberg. 

Public opinion had no organ by which to make itself 
heard, and had that been otherwise, where were tho ears to 
receive its utterances? The knowledge of many facts, of 
which Bunsen even in Rome was well aware, and which had 
been contirmed to him from many quarters on his journey, 
with regard to a clerical reactionary movement in Bavaria 
and in many other parts ever since the reign of Leo XIL, 
Lad not reached the seat of government at Berlin. 

Bunsen’s observations on this state of things were put 
in writing in the sense here mentioned, and in part reached 
the hands of the King; still the whole could not be fully 
stated, except to the Crown Prince, for most of the influ- 
ential personages disregarded his communications as ex- 
aggerations, or as the result of a monomania on the part of 
the dweller on the Capitol. A strongly-expressed opinion 
upon any subject concerning the public weal was ever held 
to savour of democratic tendencies, and it belonged to the 
indications of ‘right principles’ not to suggest disappro- 
bation of any act, or any omission, on the part of Ministers. 
This may indicate the prevailing element of the stifling 
_ mnidnight air of those times, teeming with saspicion, redo- 

lent of hypocrisy, saturated with death. Such had it seemed, 
in degree, to Bunsen, even in 1827, but the seven years 


248 _ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1834 


since elapsed had only helped to increase the evil. The 
most worthy and high-minded who were still living since 
that date, having sunk neither into the grave nor into dis- 
grace, felt oppressed and lamed, and were startled by the 
fearless utterance of opinion on the part of one whose na- 
tive vigour had been preserved in a different atmosphere. 
It would have been better, probably for the State, deci- 
dedly for Bunsen, had he been permitted to withdraw as a 
foreign element at once to his own Capitvline Hill. By 
documents it can be proved that he not only was careful not 
to press himself into this service, but that he remonstrated 
against the very command of the King to continue to serve 
him on that dangerous ground: when he obeyed, it was 
with an entreaty to be allowed to resign all concern in the 
negotiations with Rome, as soon as he should have given 
in his final statement of opinion. Then did he receive the 
written commands of his Sovereign, and armed himself to 
carry them out. 


On August 4, 1834, Bunsen, having been enabled 
to report to the King that all that had been desired 
of Spiegel and his bishops had been accomplished 
with alacrity, obtained leave to depart and return to 
his post. He had been eminently successful as a 
negotiator, and under very difficult circumstances. 
He could clearly do no more than urge the necessity 
of speedy attention to the accomplishment of all that 
had been promised, and point out unhesitatingly the 
danger of delay, in consideration of the efforts that 
would be made by the party adverse to peace, whose 
object would be to prefer accusations in Rome against 
the bishops, and to poison the mind of the Pope 
against those who alone were willing to comply with 
the wishes of the Government. | 


Er, 43] | RETURN TO ROME. 249 


- Besides the comfort of being restored to his family 
on the Capitol and on the Tusculan heights, Bunsen 
was made happy on his return by a reception more 
than kind, truly cordial, from the Pope, to whom he 
brought the preliminary assurance that all difficulties 
were to be satisfactorily solved; and soon after sub- 
mitted a communication of August 20, 1834, in which 
the King signified, in the most gracious terms, that 
his orders had been transmitted to the Minister of 
Public Worship, enjoining the speedy and punctual 
execution of all the measures promised on the part 
of Government. 

- But this satisfaction was of short duration; and 
_ Indeed who could expect, or ought to have expected, 
that, under the circumstances, those commands would 
be executed, when no one was on the spot to urge 
their execution, or find a way for making known to 
the King that the system of non-attention, non- 
action, was continued ? 

A state of open war soon commenced, not only 
against the King but against his envoy, who in the 
spring of 1836 made earnest application to be removed 
from a post which he felt to have become untenable. 
To this he received, after eight months’ delay, a flat- 
tering reply, declaring him to be indispensable to the 
King’s service in Rome. 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold. 
Rome: 5th December, 1834, 
.... Your friendship is a treasure of which I am not 
afraid of being deprived, but of which I delight to see new 
specimens, and such aretin every line of your letter (of Sep- 
tember last), only that I always feel how much in me ought 


248 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1834 


since elapsed had only helped to increase the evil. The 
most worthy and high-minded who were still living since 
that date, having sunk neither into the grave nor into dis- 
race, felt oppressed and lamed, and were startled by the 
fearless utterance of opinion on the part of one whose na- 
tive vigour had been preserved in a different atmosphere. 
It would have been better, probably for the State, deci- 
dedly for Bunsen, had he been permitted to withdraw as a. 
foreign element at once to his own Capituline Hill. By 
documents it can be proved that he not only was careful not 
to press himself into this service, but that he remonstrated 
against the very command of the King to continue to serve 
him on that dangerous ground: when he obeyed, it was 
with an entreaty to be allowed to resign all concern in the 
negotiations with Itome, as soon as he should have given 
in his final statement of opinion. Then did he receive the 
written commands of his Sovereign, and armed himself to 
carry them out. 


On August 4, 1834, Bunsen, having been enabled 
to report to the King that all that had been desired 
of Spiegel and his bishops had been accomplished 
with alacrity, obtained leave to depart and return to 
his post. He had been eminently successful as a 
negotiator, and under very difficult circumstances. 
He could clearly do no more than urge the necessity 
of speedy attention to the accomplishment of all that 
had been promised, and point out unhesitatinely the 
danger of delay, in consideration of the efforts that 
would be made by the party adverse to peace, whose 
object would be to prefer accusations in Rome against 
the bishops, and to poison the mind of the Pope 
against those who alone were willing to comply with 
the wishes of the Government. 


ZET. 43] RETURN TO ROME. 249 


Besides the comfort of being restored to his family 
on the Capitol and on the Tusculan heights, Bunsen 
was made happy on his return by a reception more 
than kind, truly cordial, from the Pope, to whom he 
brought the preliminary assurance that all difficulties 
were to be satisfactorily solved; and soon after sub- 
mitted a communication of August 20, 1834, in which 
the King signified, in the most gracious terms, that 
his orders had been transmitted to the Minister of 
Public Worship, enjoining the speedy and punctual 
execution of all the measures promised on the part 
of Government. 

But this satisfaction was of short duration; and 
indeed who could expect, or ought to have expected, 
that, under the circumstances, those commands would 
be executed, when no one was on the spot to urge 
their execution, or find a way for making known to 
the King that the system of non-attention, non- 
action, was continued ? 

A state of open war soon commenced, not only 
against the King but against his envoy, who in the 
spring of 1856 made earnest application to be removed 
from a post which he felt to have become untenable. 
To this he received, after eight months’ delay, « flat- 
tering reply, declaring him to be indispensable to the 
King’s service in Rome. 


Bunsen to Dr, Arnold. 
Rome: 5th December, 1834, 

. Your friendship is a treasure cf which I am not 
sft ‘of being deprived, but of which I delight to see new 
specimens, and such are in every line of your letter (of Sep- 
tember last), only that I always feel how much in me ought 


250 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1835 


to be better than it is, to deserve even a part of what your 
kindness judges of me. 1 trust that I shall only be strength- 
ened, and not spoiled by such friendship. . . . 

Come as soon as you can, with one of your boys, to the 
Capitol, and Jet us talk over again with more leisure the 
destinies of mankind, the glorics of Rome past, and the 
hopes of the future. 


Bunsen to Lniche. (With reference to the question of a sphere 
of activity at Berlin.) 


[Translation.] Frascati: 15th June, 1835. 


Hither I must live there free from all official duty, entirely 
for literary and scientific pursuits, or I must be authorised 
to act according to my views of what is just and right. . . 
This last winter I have been chiefly occupied with antiquity, 
with a revisal of the last volume of the ‘ Description of 
Rome,” and with researches and lectures on the Htruscan 
language and art, by which I have learnt much, and heartily 
enjoyed renewal of intercourse with subjects of undying 
interest. Now, returned to the quiet of country life, I have 
turned altogether to biblical studies, which are always inter- 
woven with everything else, ike the scarlet thread in the 
rope of Ocnus, which I am bound to twist to the end in 
Winter, 


After thanks for Liicke’s ‘Commentary on the Apo- 
calypse,’ and much commendation of the same, with 
communication of the result of his own meditation 
on the subject, he goes on to say: 





How much is it to be regretted that Niebuhr should not 
have exercised his master-power of historical contemplation 
upon the Old and New Testament, as in 1820 he desired and 
purposed! Ido not find in Schleiermacher such a gift of 
objective perception as is needed for a power of reproduction 
of the past ; his especial strength lay in criticism of the sub- 


JET. 43] LETTER TO LUCKE. 251 


jective and psychological, with a preponderance of specula- 
tion. His arrangement of Plato is a masterpiece, executed 
with an amount of vigour and of delight in the subject far 
greater than the scanty measure granted to the Gospel of 
Iuke. . . . The just point of view from which to do justice 
to this great writer I would rather express in the words of 
Schelling in his fine speech: ‘He is a champion for the 
sacred possession of our spiritual freedom and our moral 
(not conventional) convictions ;’ and it is now our calling 
to fight out the good fight, not only against heathenish, but 
against judaising rationalists: for such I must denominate 
wen like H. and G. They would prescribe to the Lord 
the manner in which He ought to reveal Himself, according 
to the loved theologic:, and all possible canonical dictates, 
with pragmatic, historical, and documentary exactness of 
prose. They insi-t upon maintaining the antiquity of the 
Book of Daniel in its actual state, spite of all throbbings 
of plnlological conscience ; first, en odtum auctoris (like the 
Inquisition of Rome), because unbelievers have attacked it ; 
and secondly, because, otherwise (as they suppose), God 
would have been unsuitably revealed, and the Lord would 
have spoken incorrectly. Alas! what straying from the 
right way! The ancient forms no longer serve their pur- 
pose. ... 

At Mumich I passed satisfactory days with Schelling: 
might but his great work svon come out! and, above all, the 
wholly speculative part. I wish that all mythology had 
rather been sunk in Lethe, than that this great thinker had 
suffered the best years of his life to be swallowed up in that 
abyss: it surely never was his calling to enter into such 
detail, although the ruling ideas in mytholagy are better 
recognised and stated by him than by anyone else. The Old 
Testament hes still in a state of neglect. Who will disclose 
that hidden treasure ? Would but somebody expound the 
Prophets according to their historical truth, and, at the same 
tune, their spiritual meaning ! 


252 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1835 


The Universities are either sunk, or sinking fast, in what 
is the main point, intellectual aewmen. The odious system 
of cramming (that is, of increasing to excess the quantity of 
teaching) in the preparatory schools must bear the chief 
blame, but much falls to the account of the want of all ar- 
rangements to render a lively correspondence and mutual 
understanding between teachers and students possible; 
which would Jead to the creation of that which is to the 
German most difficult—independent self-exertion (Selbst- 
thittighkeit). 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold. 
Villa Piccolomini, Frascati: 14th July, 18365. 


....» Youalso, my dear friend, have gone through a hard 
time, having experienced one-half of what you anticipated, 
the abuse and mistakes of those whom you oppose in politics ; 
the other half, the ingratitude or perverseness of those with 
whom we act, being generally reserved to the latter part of 
every honest public life im troubled times: the more bitter 
cup, indeed! I rejoice in hearing from all sides that you 
have borne it nobly, with that tranquillity of mind which a 
Christian alone can have, and to which, as far as it flows 
from Christian charity, the victory over the world 1s pro- 
mised and ensured. 

I have read Newman’s ‘ Arians,’ O heaven! what a book ! 
Newman, I always thought, had adreadful hankering after 
papism, but T hoped his inward Christianity and the air of 
England would set him right, together with a little sincere 
and thorough study. But his system of demonstration in 
this book as to the power and duty of the Church, the priest- 
hood, the Council, the Pepe; of setting up rules of faith in 
a far different sense from that which our Confessions war- 
rant; of the regula fider beyond Scripture ; of the ‘ apostolic 
tradition ’ and the ‘ secret. doctrine!’ is beyond all belief, 
It is the downright opposite of, and blind reaction against, 
that spirit of lawlessness and individualism of separa- 


JET 43] LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 2508 


tists, who think a Church ought to have no test whatever to 
control the opinions of her teachers. It is scarcely possible 
to say anything really new about the fundamental truth of 
the sovereign authority of Scripture, only every age must 
find out new modes of expressing it, in order to keep old 
women and children from selling their spiritual liberty to 
Popes, or Councils, or Congregations, or whatsoever the 
name be... . 

OQ! my dear friend, our state in Germany is dreadful. 
Our best friends, in practical Christianity as in practical 
polities, dress up in rotten and corrupted forms the elements 
of life which are still preserved to us by that gracious Pro- 
vidence which extends its saving father-hand over the coun- 
try of the Reformation and the land of lberty—over the 
still-sound heart of Europe and the gloricus Queen of the 
Isles, and ‘Isle of the Saints’ (ag Tholuck calls your dear 
country)—and cling to the scattered rags, when the ques- 
tion is to save the noble institution on which they hang. 
Many of them do so bond fide. Shall it be our fate to have 
these as our enemies? I look forth to the future, on this 
point, not with fear but with awe. As to our own opinions 
and feelings on this subject, my dear friend, we know they 
cannot differ essentially, although they differ im some respects 
in the expression. You are right to call the false Conserva- 
tives essential destructives ; but I am equally right in call- 
ing the Radicals the greatest enemies to liberty. ‘Men’ 
(as Niebuhr says) ‘can only bear a certain quantity of 
liberty ;’ and I should add, in Niebuhr’s sense, this quantity 
is proportioned to their private and political virtue, to their 
power of self-sacrifice—which is alinost saying that it is in 
an inverse ratio to ‘the progress of civilisation’ which is 
the art of shrouding selfishness and vice in certain regular 
and conventional forms, the efficient varnish of the animal 
instincts. I consider our Protestant countries to be pre- 
cisely in this respect distinguished from the Catholic, that 
we can advance by reform, and they only try to begin to ad- 
vance by revolution... . 


254 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1835 | 


To the Same. 


Rome : 20th December, 1835. 


. It is shown by the history of most ages, that man- 
kind pass to re-organisation by destruction, to the truth by 
the struggle of the extremes, as the entire frame of irra- 
tional nature has been formed by the eternal laws of oppo- 
sition, according to which each thing finite calls forth its 
counterpart, and that becomes the basis of higher life; but 
Christ came into the world, as the Spirit into matter, to 
break this law of necessity, and substitute for it ‘the glo- 
rious liberty of the sons of God.’ I feel, and know, that 
there is no man living who, more than you, agrees with me 
in these fundamental truths ; otherwise I should not express 
what might seem to imply a breach in the union of our 
opinions ; whereas I mean but to say to you, that there must, 
be a chasm, a lacuna in your appendix, because the second 
part seems to me, as I understand it, to follow least of all 
from the first. J know I have not proved my corollary from 
our common principles; but I shall try to do so in my 
theses. 

. Thail your idea of writing about the prophecies. .. . 
The subject is, perhaps, pe in your mnd; but what I am 
certain of is, that the Enghsh mind is not ripe for it. 
Your divinity, your literature, your worship, your devotion, 
—nothing is prepared for it. [say this on the supposition 
that you give up entirely the ancient system as untenable, 
but think it right not to do so betore giving at the same time 
the positive new system. T believe I have known that for 
ten or twelve years at least; but it was only very lately 
that 1 perceived the possibility of presenting it to myself and 
my readers, as not being essentially different from the former. 
Oh how I wish I might have some day s and nights to con- 
verse with you on this subject; even in Germany I have not 
many with whom I am conscious of agreeing entirely on 
both parts of the question. The Hengstenberg reaction in 


JET. 44) _ LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 255 


his Christology is only a reaction, and will die with the sys- 
tem it impugns ; there is as much Judaic rationalism in that 
as heathen rationalism in the other. I hope to write my 
book on the Gospels next summer. Strauss’s criticism, 
a product of unbelief and Hegelianism, bas produced a 
great, sensation in Germany ; and T do not see how he can 
be refuted on all points by the old system—not even as 
handled by Olshausen and Schleiermacher. 


To the Same. 
Rome: 4th March, 1836. 


I hail the idea of a national University, and what leads 
to it. The point I should have in view in England as in 
Germany, would be to unite the two methods,—the English, 
of tuition and spontaneous activity, and the German, of a 
regular course of professional lectures. The first forms the 
man more than anything, and accustoms him to find out 
things himself, by self-exertion and exercise, proprio Marte 
et periculo, under a friendly and respected helper, vd voce, 
and this is wanting in Germany, and (I believe) in Scotland, 
at least in Edinburgh. The consequence is that young 
men go through a course of lectures merely as hearers, 
at the best repeat what they hear and write down, believing 
that they understand and can reproduce it; in which they 
find themselves bitterly disappointed when they come to 
the task. Only when the student is obliged to construe 
and explain an author himself, to make out himself the ar- 
guments for a critical or historical or philosophical process 
of treatment, is he sure to be able to wield what he has ac- 
quired, and know what he can do.* Believe me, this is of 
far greater importance than you are aware of, feeling as you 
do the want of something else; and this other want must 
be supphed by a regular course of lectures, which can be 
done best by coupling it with the other. [Here follow de- 
tails of a proposed division in a three years’ course of study. ] 


r: ae ° . 
* Zu konnen was man weiss, und zu wissen was man kann. 


256 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1836 


This I submit to you as exemplifying what I mean by 
uniting the English and German methods; not forgetting 
Plato’s dictum: that the wise man requires seven years to 
seize the ideas, and fourteen to learn how to adapt them to 
reality.’ Strange to say, I see less difficulty in carrying out 
such a system in England than in Germany! It is easier to 
add learning to education than to make the seeker of learn- 
ing (the student) submit to education (tuition)... . 

How did my heart beat when I had read what you had 
done in Roman History! My last letter was an exhortation, 
and ought to have been an exultation. God bless you in this 
great and, I hope, immortal work! More wisdom is to be 
Jearnt from the Roman History than from any other. Your 
plan is the same I had always in mind, and took the liberty 
to suggest to Niebuhr, who, had he lived to rewrite the two 
first volumes, would have separated the researches from 
the narrative. I have quite the same religio as ever as to 
Niebuhr’s opinions ; often do I find, after years, the reason 
why his opinion was right. . . . 


Cuntemporary Notice in a Letter. 
Frascati: 27th October, 1836. 


A paragraph has appeared in an ultra-Protestant Swiss 
newspaper, so contrived that the worst enemy to the cause 
could not have imagined anything calculated to do it more 
injury, the sum and substance being that Protestants were 
gaining a footing in Italy, chiefly owing to the zeal and 
hberality of the King of Prussia—implying that he had es- 
tablished a sort of Propaganda in the country, with schools, 
libraries, and cvery instrument of conversion. A copy of 
this was sent officially to Bunsen, with a request for an ex- 
planation ; and he received additional private notice that the 
personage most disturbed by this paragraph [the Pope] had 
let fall expressions to the effect of‘ Bunsen keeps quite away ; 
I have hardly seen him for two years.’ These communica- 
tions suggested the necessity of doing two things—first, of 


Er. 45] VISITS THE POPE AT CASTEL GANDOLFO. 257 
writing a paragraph in the Berlin official newspaper, which 
he sent inpreviously for inspection, that he might know 
whether the formal and circumstantial contradiction which 
he was enabled to give would be considered satisfactory ; 
secondly, of making an attempt to prove that his having re- 
frained from seeking opportunities of personal interviews 
had not originated in any want of respect, but rather in 
delicacy, not to obtrude his presence,—from the nature of 
the negotiation and correspondence going on latterly. He 
therefore sent an official letter, stating that he had heard 
from the Governor of Frascati of His Holiness’s intention of 
coming over oue day thither in his way to Camaldoli to 
dine, and that he begged leave to offer a breakfast at Villa 
Piccolomini by way of refreshment on the way. The answer 
was gracious, declining the invitation for this tie, a promise 
having been made to alight at the residence of the Cardinal 
Pacea, and at the Villa Falconieri. At the same time, Bunsen 
received private information that this personal attention had 
given pleasure; and when he went over to Castel Gandolfo 
the day after the Pope’s arrival, he was met with kindness 
and even caresses, the Pope dwelhng with emphasis upon 
owing his late cure to a Prussian (Dr. Alertz), and saying 
further in allusion to a supposed personal likeness between 
Alertz and Bunsen,—‘ proprio un suo fratello che é venuto 
apposto per guarirmi.’ When a day or two later the visit 
of the Pope to Frascati took place, it had been settled that 
Bunsen should take the opportunity of presenting to him 
several Prussians, mostly Catholics, in the Sacristy, as less 
inconvenient to the Pope than such presentations in Rome; 
and accordingly he appeared with his train, and was desired 
to approach close to the chair of the Pope, for the greater 
convenience of presentation in the narrow space; the Pope 
spoke to each of the Catholic young men (one of them being 
Urlichs), and expressed himself pleased with them—‘ Buone 
faccie, mi piacciono.’ After the set had retired, Bunsen was 


VOL. I. 8 


258 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


about to leave his post of honour, but the Pope said, 
‘Restate, restate,’ and continued to talk to him so eagerly 
and continuously that no moving was possible while the 
Pope remained, having the cross on his slipper kissed by a 
current of friars, ladies, and persons of all ranks, as fast as 
they could get in and out. Alertz has received princely 
rewards for his fortunate exercise of medical judgment, 
and has been requested still to delay his departure,* per- 
haps that he may try to deal with the cholera, which, 
being actually at Naples, may well be apprehended as 


imminent. 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold. (After requesting Dr. Arnold to be- 
come godfather to his daughter Matilda.) 


Rome: 13th February, 1837. 


That want of spontaneous energy in the mind which you 
mention is what Niebuhr once complained of in his son 
Marcus, saying, ‘Er hat keine Sehnsucht’ (he has no 
intellectual longing). Indeed, nine-tenths of our know- 
ledge, if not all of it, are owing to that thirst after 
knowledge which is like the searching after the road 
which leads to our home we perceive it not from the 
foreign place in which we find ourselves. ... But we 
know there is a home, and a way to it. What you say 
struck me much of our picking up thousands of things 
that we want, and of which we know not how we came 
to learn them. That is the longing, the spontaneity, 
which is nothing but a more powerful action of inward 
consciousness. .. . 


* This excellent physician, who continued to honour his calling and 
his country in the city of the Popes, died there, whilst this Memoir was 
approaching completion (Nov, 1866), universally regretted. 


JET. 40] ROMAN DIFFICULTIES. 2Ot 


To the Same. 
Capitol: 15th May, 1837. 


. . » The reason why I should doubly rejoice in seeing 
you and Mrs. Arnold here, this summer, is that it is very 
probably my last in Rome. I have every reason to believe 
that, next spring, I shall pass the Alps and settle in Ger- 
many. I end with wishing nothing but to be where Provi- 
dence will have me. 

The Lyra Apostolica contains appalling things of that 
Sect: ‘Roman, Lutheran, Zwinglian novelties’ are put to- 
gether in one line. Now there is not one jot of doctrine 
in the Church of England which you did not take from 
Luther or Calvin, and in which we of the United Kvangehi- 
cal Church in Prussia do not agree; if, therefore, there be 
something which separates us as herctics from the true 
Church, it is the Apostolic Succession—they cannot get 
out of that argument. Christ died only for the English, 
for they have the Apostolic Succession in common with 
Rome and Moscow. Jam satis. Such positions will fall 
of themselves, and the sooner, the more really conservative 
1. e. reconstructive, principles are opposed to them. 


The cause of the clouds and storms which obscured 
and disturbed the latter years of Bunsen’s residence 
at Rome, and caused his final departure in 1838, re- 
quires an explanation which shall be as much con- 
densed as possible; but, to make the matter intel- 
ligible, circumstances must be looked ‘into, which 
seldom excite any interest at a distance from the 
scene of contending purposes and systems. 

The government of the Prussian dominions had 
always been a system of royal orders and decrees, 
constituted with exemplary regard to positive and 


actual law, and obeyed with military precision. 
5 2 


260 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


When the King’s will was once known, there was 
no question of remonstrance or of opposition :—for 
instance, when King Frederick William (father of 
Frederick the Great) resolved to maintain the cause 
of his Protestant brethren in Heidelberg (persecuted 
and driven out of their own Church by the Roman 
Catholic Elector), and therefore declared that, as long 
as they were not restored to their hereditary posses- 
sions, he would retaliate on the Church of Rome, by 
withholding from his Catholic subjects in Magdeburg 
their immunities and the use of their church, he was 
only considered as ‘doing what he would with his 
own,’ and never accused of a breach of vested rights. 
When, therefore, the Prussian dominions received the 
large accession of territory consisting of the ancient 
dioceses of Cologne, Tréves, and Paderborn, the Prus- 
sian ordinances were alone reckoned upon for the re- 
gvulation of the new countries as well as of the old. 
The Prussian troops were, as such, to march into the 
Protestant church after parade, whether recruited 
among the Catholic or the Protestant population ; 
and if a marriage was to take place between persons 
of different persuasions (a so-called ‘ mixed marriage’), 
the law of Prussia vested in the father the sole right 
over the religious education of his children, and for- 
bade his entering into stipulations on the subject 
before marriage. This was law, and the monarch’s 
will— and how should it be interfered with? The 
degree of power in the Church of Rome over its 
members, and the renewed and increasing determi- 
nation to exercise that power to the utmost, was al- 
together ignored. It may be still in the personal re- 


Er. 45] MIXED MARRIAGE QUESTION. 261 


collection of others, besides the writer of these lines, 
how common was the impression that the French Re- 
volution and its effects had crushed the Pope and his 
power, and that both continued to exist but on suffer- 
ance,—that they would and could make no demands, 
but were ready to acquiesce in whatever might be 
politically enacted. 

The possibility of a mixed marriage is denied by the 
Roman system ; and in countries of exclusive Catholi- 
cism no such marriage can by any means be legally 
contracted. The sufterance of the Pope has only 
been extended to such alliances between reigning 
families, for reasons of State ; and then by disregard- 
ing rather than by permitting, this condition of mere 
sufferance also applied to all mixed populations at a 
distance from Rome. In Prussia there had been as 
yet little or no experience of the difficulties attend- 
ing a mixed population, for the province of Silesia 
(the only one containing any considerable number of 
Roman Catholics) was too happy and contented in 
being under Prussian rather than Austrian rule since 
the conquest by Frederick the Great, to occasion any 
trouble. The clergy being peaceably inclined, and 
making no difficulty in granting to a ‘ mixed marriage’ 
the ‘ passive assistance’ which secured to it complete 
validity,— consisting only in the presence of the priest 
and his silent acceptance of the troth-plighting of the 
parties,—without granting them any form or degree 
of nuptial benediction. But the case was different 
in the stricter newly annexed provinces on the Rhine, 
where the clergy would not grant even this ‘ passive 
assistance” without the secret (and illegal) promise 


262 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


of the Protestant bridegroom to allow his children to 
be bred up in the Romish faith; and the umbrage 
given to the Prussian Government was becoming the 
greater in proportion as the influx of skilled labour- 
ers, artisans, and husbandmen from the neighbouring 
Protestant provinces, and the presence of the Prussian 
military, gave occasion for an ever-increasing num- 
ber of marriages between the Protestant immigrants 
and the Catholic daughters of the land. 

Previous to the Prussian rule, Protestants had for 
many years been known only from hearsay in that 
whole tract of country where the Reformation had 
originally taken strong root and flourished until it 
was extirpated under archiepiscopal dominion by the 
unsparing infliction of death or transportation. The 
zeal, therefore, of the Romish priesthood to secure 
wll future increase in the population to the Roman 
Catholic majority, as well as the growing anxiety 
of the Government to extend protection to its own 
people, may thus be conceived; and it must be re- 
membered that the Belgian clergy were indefatigable 
in stimulating the spirit of opposition in their neigh- 
bours within the Prussian frontier, and that the arch- 
bishopric of Breslau in the far east was beginning 
to awake from its pacific slumbers. 

At that time it was believed to be desirable to pro- 
mote mixed marriages, as tending to preserve peace 
between the two Confessions. All Germany, since 
the Peace of Westphalia, might be said to live ina 
condition of mixed marriage; and Bunsen, with most 
of the statesmen of his day, considered it an indis- 
pensable duty to maintain peace by virtue of this sort 


JET. 45] MIXED MARRIAGE QUESTION. 263 


of compromise. Had the desired peaceable arrange- 
ment taken root in Germany, it would, at least for 
a time, have been tacitly ignored at Rome; but the 
same spirit had arisen, which in Rome brought into 
power an unconciliating party, the influences of 
which were felt alike by the party of liberty and the 
party of absolutism, of self-government as of hier- 
archical dominion. When in 1827 the Government 
authorised the western bishops to apply to Rome 
for new instructions, and Bunsen (on occasion of 
his first visit to Berlin) received directions to enter 
into negotiations in support of the Prussian view 
of the subject—no one was aware of the danger of 
this step in the wrong direction. Later, it was said 
to Bunsen on high authority in Rome, ‘ Why do you 
demand everything from Rome? Let the bishops do 
their part; a peaceable understanding between you 
and them will be enough for us.’ On Bunsen’s 
return from Berlin to Rome in 1828, negotiations 
were carried on between him and Cardinal Mauro 
Capellari in the short reign of Pius VIII., which 
resulted in a Brief of March 25, 1830, more indul- 
gent in its terms than any such document before or 
since issued; but which in an evil hour the Prussian 
Government viewed with dissatisfaction, because it 
did not favour its own views as much as had been 
expected. For, although the priest was to grant the 
passive assistance, in case, after due examination of 
the state of mind of the Catholic bride, he should be 
convinced that she was not careless and indifferent 
in things sacred, but really resolved to use every 
means in her power to effect the bringing up of her 


264 - .MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


children as Romanists, even though no promise were 
made to that effect by the Protestant party, yet in 
no case was he empowered to bestow that nuptial 
benediction, without which the Catholic population 
considered a marriage to be to a certain degree dis- 
reputable. On the principle before mentioned, that 
everything should be done to encourage mixed 
marriages, the Government was urgent for the grati- 
fication of these pious feelings by the Church; whereas 
advice to the parties, either to renounce the marriage 
altogether, or to accept such ‘ passive assistance,’ or 
finally to be satisfied with the civil contract (which 
was in force wherever the Code Napoleon has become 
the law of the land, as in the Rhine Province), 
would have been the safer measure. Tedious were 
the negotiations and great the expenditure of thought 
and of energy, in the endeavour to gain a clear 
notion of the subject; and the hesitation about 
accepting the Brief in question, though it contained 
the best terms that ever could be obtained, may be 
considered to mark the loss of the cause. This 
hesitation lasted for years, and meantime the op- 
posing power gained strength daily. The Cardinal, 
author of the Brief, had become Pope Gregory XVI., 
and had appointed Cardinal Lambruschini as his 
Secretary of State and principal adviser: the Arch- 
bishop of Cologne, Count Spiegel Desenberg, had 
been cut off by sudden death, and was succeeded by 
Baron Droste von Vischering, a man of serious con- 
viction, but of views opposed to the cause of peace,* 


* When the King’s intention to name Baron Droste von Vischering to 
the See of Cologne was communicated at Rome by the Prussian Envoy, 


ZEr, 45] MIXED MARRIAGE QUESTION. 265 


and who proved regardless even of his own promise 
to fulfil the Convention of July 19, 1834. This 
Convention, founded on the principle of the Brief 
of 1830, was offered to the acceptance of the bishops 
with much prospect of success while Archbishop 
Spiegel lived. At the present time, though only 
a quarter of a century removed from that period, it 
will seem almost incredible that, in that Conven- 
tion, the abolition of the civil marriage so especi- 
ally obnoxious to Rome, and so self-evident a safety- 
valve to non-Catholics, was promised by Prussia as 
the recompense for compliance on the part of the 
bishops. 

Ten years earlier, everything might have been easy 
which now proved impossible; but the favourable 
season had been allowed to pass, and from this time 
forth the strife of contending elements was unceasing, 
until Bunsen was in a manner crushed by them, and 
the blame, chiefly incurred by others, was heaped 
upon him; but the moment his back was turned 
upon Berlin, adverse influences hindered all action, 
and caused the right moment to be lost. The follow- 
ing account occurs in a paper written by Bunsen at 
a subsequent period (in 1840). It was then handed 
to his friend Professor Gelzer, who published it after 
Bunsen’s death in the September number of the Pro- 
testantische Monatsblitter of 1861, an able periodical 
of which he is the editor. 

All efforts of the Government failing to effect a 


the Cardinal Secretary of State, with that naive frankness which charac- 
terises even the wiliest Italian, exclaimed with undisguised astonishment, 
‘Is your Government mad ?’ 


266 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1837 


peaceable solution of difficulties,* Bunsen was sum- 
moned by the King to Berlin, in the summer of 1837, 
to give his council and assistance in concerting de- 
finitive measures. He found the King fully resolved 
to carry matters with a high hand towards the Arch- 
bishop, who was proved to be engaged in violent 
opposition to the Government, and was accused, on 
strong evidence, of having entered into the ultra- 
montane combination of the Belgian bishops.t Ne- 
gotiations and conferences proved unavailing. Pro- 
posals to the Archbishop to resign his post or to ab- 
stain from all exercise of the authority belonging to 
it, were met with a decided negative. At last, the 
King caused him to be arrested (on November 20, 
1887) and conveyed out of his diocese, never to 
return. It has been one of Bunsen’s misfortunes to 
be regarded as the instigator of this strong measure: 
but it is very certain that he found the King and his 
Ministers resolved upon the point. All that he could 
do was to expend his powers of persuasion in endea- 


* A very serious complication was occasioned by the sudden proscrip- 
tion by the Archbishop of a number of theological teachers in the 
University of Bonn, who had been originally appointed with the full 
approbation of Rome, but who were, as followers of the late Professor 
Hermes (a teacher who in his lifetime was left unreproved), forbidden 
to preach or to give lectures. These acts were considered as part of a 
plan industriously pursued, to get the University entirely out of the 
hands of the King, who had endowed and supported it at his own 
expense. 

t It was the intention of the Government to bring the Archbishop 
before a court of justice, under an indictment of conspiracy against. the 
law of the country. The Archbishop’s secretary, however, having 
succeeded in removing all incriminating papers before the seizure of 
the Prelate, this saving portion of the scheme necessarily fell to the 
ground. 


“ET. 45] DISPUTES WITH THE HIERARCHY. 267 


vours to induce the Archbishop to take a more Prus- 
sian view of his duty: and he afterwards defended 
the proceeding in a public State paper, characteristic 
of himself and of the time in which it was written, 
as it rests upon the assumption of a close alliance 
between the two Churches in Germany, and of a 
certain hereditary connection between ‘the Church 
and the State.’ It may be said to mark a crisis in 
these views. The Catholic Hierarchy was already 
labouring to effect the dissolution of this connection, 
and it was inevitable that the State should on its 
own part seek a separation, as soon as its transfor- 
mation from an absolute into a constitutional form 
should be complete. The Prussian Government did 
not indeed give way after this crisis, but the whole 
affair was felt to be a defeat. No support was 
found in public opinion. No Parliament existed to 
take the matter out of the range of mternational 
transactions, and settle it by internal legislation. 
In general, the excitement in Germany at this 
period was not so much the result of enthusiasm 
for the Church as of indignation against despotic 
power. 

It might well be deemed a tragical fate which 
thrust Bunsen into a position incongruous to his own 
nature. Often had he exerted himself, incurred re- 
proach, and risked the loss of high favour, by advo- 
cating greater freedom for members of the Catholic 
Charch; and just before this very period, the soldiers 
were relieved from the obligation to attend the Pro- 
testant service after parade, at his special and per- 
sonal request to the King, the particulars of which 


268 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


remarkable occurrence will be related on a subsequent 
page. 

The order sent from Berlin, June 24, 1837, ad- 
mitted of no delay in obeying it, and Bunsen per- 
formed a rapid journey, gladly availing himself of 
the opportunity of conveying his third and fourth 
sons on their way, the one to the Blochmann Insti- 
tute at Dresden, the other to Schulpforte—which 
long-intended transfer furnished the ostensible ex- 
planation he was desired to give. He reached Berlin 
by the Ist August. Capaccini arrived on the 9th, 
and was received in a private audience by the King, 
who confirmed all that had been already stated by 
Bunsen and by Baron Altenstein (Minister of Public 
Worship and Education), and concluded by declaring, 
that unless the new Archbishop (Droste von Vischer- 
ing) would keep his promise and refrain from viola- 
ting the laws of the country, he would remove him 
from the diocese (‘che egli, il Re, l avrebbe allonta- 
nato dalla sua diocesi,’ were the expressions in the 
Report of Capaccini) ; and an order from the Cabinet 
authorised both the further negotiation with Mon- 
signor Capaccini, and the preparation of a complete 
Report by Bunsen on the state and the rights of the 
case. 

The Memoir was carefully and deliberately worked 
out, giving a detailed declaration of conviction as to 
the principles of the monarchy in its relation to the 
Church of Rome and the Romanist population, and 
in immediate connection with the questions at issue. 
On the 17th August Bunsen announced to the Crown 
Prince that his work would within a week be com- 


JET. 46] REMOVAL OF HIS FAMILY TO BERLIN. 269 


pleted, and that he entreated to be released from 
further negotiation on the subject, and allowed to 
return to his post. The same representation and 
request he also made to Herr von Altenstein, re- 
ceiving from each a protest equally positive against 
his departure. It was now that a great temptation 
was held out to Bunsen, in the suggestion that the 
situation of Director-General of the Royal Museum 
had lately become vacant, and that he might therein 
find the much desired opportunity of exchanging his 
position in Rome, however delightful in itself, for 
a permanent settlement at Berlin. In such good 
earnest was this plan proposed and dwelt upon, both 
by the friendly and the adverse parties, who with 
various intentions were now agreed in desiring to 
detain him, that his wife received on the 9th Septem- 
ber decisive directions for the removal of herself and 
her entire family to Berlin, for definitive residence, 
as speedily as she might find it possible to accom- 
plish her travelling arrangements. The cholera had 
scarcely ceased raging in Rome—it was equally raging 
at Berlin: the wide tract of country between was full 
of opposing lines of demarcation, with quarantine 
regulations ; yet the prospect of a journey, although 
next to impracticable, was in contemplation and pre- 
paration during four anxious weeks, until a letter of 
the 9th October gave notice that Bunsen might be ex- 
pected to return to Rome, although probably not for 
any length of time. The grant of the honourable 
and desirable position at the Museum was to be 
combined with the Presidency of a Commission for 
the despatch of Roman affairs; and in spite of the 


270 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


sanguine nature of Bunsen, which had so often led 
him to believe in the possible combination of in- 
congruities, it became clear that such a condition of 
apparent independence but of actual subordination 
to the Ministry of Public Worship must be avoided ; 
and that it was equally important for him to retain 
his position as chief of the Prussian Mission at Rome. 
These proposals would have detained him at Berlin, 
working hard in the cause, which, in fact, remained 
pending between higher powers than those of a 
negotiator, instead of allowing him to insist, as far 
as a public servant could insist, upon his release. 
The important Memoir was handed in, by permis- 
sion, for the King’s personal inspection, all but the 
concluding portion, by Bunsen, on the 25th August, 
his own birthday —a day often critical in his life, 
and which he was fond of rendering such when the 
means were within his influence. He wrote a short 
sketch of the contents of the concluding part; most 
important, because including, as the last of siz 
measures, considered indispensable for the pacifica- 
tion of the Rhine Provinces, the rescinding of the 
regulation of the Sunday parade, that is, the com- 
pulsory attendance of the military without exception, 
after parade, at a Protestant church. On delivering 
this into the hands of Prince Wittgenstein, Bunsen 
pointed out to him the particulars, and received in 
reply the most urgent representation of the offence 
that would be given to the King, and the advice to 
refrain from an attempt which would be unavailing 
to effect any good purpose, and would bring down 
upon himself condign displeasure. But Bunsen had 


Et. 46] AUDIENCE WITH THE KING. 271 


withstood, on this subject, influence far more power- 
ful in the arguments of the Crown Prince,—who had 
endeavoured to induce him to give up the attack on 
the King’s fixed determination, by representing that 
the application of the whole body of Ministers of 
State, with his own (the Crown Prince’s) urgent 
request, as a personal favour, had proved unsuc- 
cessful. 

At length, on the 3rd September, Bunsen was to 
be permitted to defend his statement by word of 
mouth; and he was invited to the royal dinner-table 
at Charlottenburg, with Count Lottum. The Crown 
Prince was also present, and took the opportunity, 
before the important audience (which was to take 
place after dinner), to give Bunsen a last warning, that 
he must leave out the obnoxious passage. On his 
reiterating the previous protest, the Prince charged 
him to be brief in his arguments—not to exceed 
twenty minutes, — and to be prepared to find the 
King sharp and positive in his objections. 

The King bade Bunsen take a seat exactly opposite 
to himself, as he sat with his back to the window in 
his cabinet; saying, ‘ You may be short in your com- 
munication, for I have read the whole.’ All went on 
well, even encouragingly, on the part of the King, 
till Bunsen observed, ‘To the last point I must 
entreat the peculiar indulgence of your Majesty, for 
it is most important.’ ‘I know all about that,’ said 
the King: ‘I thought you were aware that I desired 
to hear no more of it.’ ‘ But,’ rejoined Bunsen, ‘it 
is, please your Majesty, a case of conscience: and | 
have something new to communicate.’ The King’s 


272 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


countenance was flushed,—he was evidently impa- 
tient, and seemed about to rise and break off the 
audience: but the word ‘conscience’ detained him: 
he laid his hands one over the other, as if to listen, 
and said, ‘If that is the case I must hear what you 
have to say.’ Bunsen stated, first, that according 
to a contracted view of duty, though canonically it 
was a compulsory precept of the Church of Rome, 
no Catholic could, without committing actual sin, 
take part in any act of worship with Protestants: 
and to be present, though only as a spectator, was 
considered as taking part in it. A footing was thus 
gained for further pleading: the King protested 
strongly against the ussertion that the alleged com- 
pulsion had made martyrs, on the ground of an 
anecdote, which he deemed to be without foundation, 
that one of the soldiers had, at the church-door, 
exclaimed, ‘So fur, and no further!’ giving himself 
up to arrest. The King was sure ‘the thing could 
not be true, or he must have known it—such stories 
ought not to be accepted as fact from defamatory 
writings.” He was assured that the evidence had 
never been controverted; and, after further argu- 
ments, the King said, ‘If your pleading is finished, 
I will explain how I look upon the matter. In my 
army it has ever been the custom to call upon the 
Lord of Hosts before, or to return thanks after, a 
battle. Must we henceforward part, and Catholics 
go one way, and Protestants another, when we again 
have to fight for the fatherland? In order that our 
Catholic fellow-Christians might have no objection 
to pray with us on such occasions, I thought it ad- 


ZEr. 46] DISCUSSION WITH THE KING. 273 


visable that they should convince themselves. before- 
hand of our acknowledging Christ as the Saviour— 
for their priests seek to persuade them that we 
believe nothing, and our Rationalists have done all 
they could to confirm that impression. Therefore I 
caused an inoffensive Liturgy to be used, and I 
have forbidden preaching upon points of controversy, 
or at too great length. The King continued to 
speak, with much animation and a striking com- 
mand of language: at a pause, Bunsen offered with 
emotion the assurance that he had never doubted the 
nature of His Majesty’s sentiments, which it was 
most precious to him to hear thus explained, but 
that his conviction remained the same, that the 
King’s views and intentions were misunderstood,— 
the appearance of compulsion in a matter of con- 
science having closed minds against conviction. He 
had felt obliged to speak of this fact, it being most 
important at the present moment to prevent having 
both clergy and people irritated against the Govern- 
ment. Now came the most dangerous moment of 
the conversation, the King enquiring why, the prac- 
tice objected to being general, the compiaint against 
it should come from one place only? ‘I hear no 
complaint from the Rhine ;—yet the Rhenish people 
are not apt to be shy of grumbling.’ The ques- 
tion was embarrassing, for the King was the only 
person not aware that his generals in Rhineland and 
Westphalia had agreed silently to drop the custom of 
Sunday parade. It had become a rule to keep from 
His Majesty’s knowledge whatever might contradict 
his wishes and purposes—a mischievous rule for 
VOL. I. T 


274 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


public servants to follow towards their Sovereign. 
And yet no King had ever better deserved to be told 
the whole truth, which he ever desired to know: for 
although in the first moment of an unpleasing dis- 
covery a burst of dissatisfaction and of blame might 
take place, yet he was sure immediately after to 
acknowledge his mistake; and his weakness was 
rather that of too easily surrendering the decision of 
his own judgment. But it must be added, that in 
no one would the withholding of the truth have 
been more unpardonable than in Bunsen, who had 
in so remarkable a manner experienced that the 
King could reward the contradiction of favourite 
ideas with signal grace and favour, when once con- 
vinced of the uprightness of motive in the opposition 
given. 

Bunsen replied, that ‘however it might be with 
the utterance of a grievance, it was equally felt in 
both parts of the kingdom, and would not fail to be 
made known, particularly in the present time of ex- 
citement ; and it were better to be beforehand by 
removing the cause.’ ‘It is impossible,’ said the 
King, ‘ that T should abrogate the existing ordinance.’ 
He was reminded that a private direction to the 
commanders to drop the practice would serve the 
purpose. ‘What might be done’ (said the King) 
‘would be to give up the monthly parade, and hold 
it only three or four times a year.’ Bunsen felt that 
the combat was won; and he ventured to reply to 
the last remark,—‘ What has been wrong when done 
twelve times is not right when done three times!’ 
Then the King smiled, and said, ‘Well, I shall not 


ZEr. 46] THE CHOLERA AT ROME. 275 


write on this matter—let the generals be informed.’ 
With an expression of deep thankfulness Bunsen 
enquired whether His Majesty might be pleased to 
allow of his taking the route by Minster, to com- 
municate the royal decision to General Miiffling, as 
well as to the general at Coblentz, &c.... With 
that the audience was closed. The King gave his 
hand to Bunsen, with the words, ‘I shall be pleased 
to see you again.’ 

Bunsen was unspeakably happy,—and it was only 
a question whether the hour just passed, or that in 
which he related all that passed in it to the Crown 
Prince, was the most precious to him. 

What followed either ought not to have taken 
place, or he ought to have been permitted to keep 
himself clear of all participation, as he so continually 
desired and petitioned to do; but he was reserved for 
the fate of a victim and a scapegoat. 


Contemporary Notice of the State of Itome under the Cholera. 
18th August, 1837. 

On the 15th, an Englishman, teacher of languages, was 
attacked by the savage populace of Piazza Montanara as a 
poisoner. It is said he was imprudent enough to caress a 
child, and offer it a ciambella. The first three Carabinieri 
who tried to save him were overpowered, and a reinforce- 
ment at last succeeded in dragging him to the Hospital of 
the Consolazione, with eleven stabs. Some of the mur- 
derers have been imprisoned ; the women are said to have 
been more savage than the men. A priest, too, was in 
danger, but the Carabinieri were in tame to save him; he 
had given sugar-plums, and was accordingly suspected. 
The sensation is general among Germans and Danes of their 
own insecurity, and of longing after Bunsen. 

T2 


270 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


14th October.—A visit from Lord Clifford was matter of 
great interest. He spoke at length of the late dreadful 
period, said justly that the death of about 10,000 people, 
who had not the means of an honest livelihood (the entire 
mortality is estiniated by moderate calculators at 12,009), is 
not the calamity to be deplored, but the difficulty of provid- 
ing for the 4,000 orphans that remain ; and he used expres- 
sions curiously exemplifying the manner in which good 
Catholics avoid throwing blame upon the Papal Government, 
saying that ‘he had often urged upon his own (English) 
Government, what every one must now sec to be the fact, 
that the result of the policy of the Courts of Europe towards 
Rome would be that the Roman Government would have no 
authority left ;) that orders were given, but there was no 
power to enforce them ; that vast sums have been collected 
for the relief of the sufferers, and a number of plans made, 
but not one executed, so that little or no help had been 
received where most needed ; and in the course of conversa- 
tion he related anecdotes proving a state of vicious disor- 
yanisation everywhere, not explaining in what manner the 
blame should be due to ‘the policy of European Courts.’ 


The sketch of Bunsen’s life during this year of 
severe trial would have seemed incomplete without 
the preceding particulars of the condition of things 
which he had to look back upon when his mental 
gaze was turned with increasing longing towards his 
home. His family was happily removed to Frascati 
before the pestilence had reached Rome, and Frascati 
remained untouched by it. From his numerous 
letters no extracts have been found of general in- 
terest, with the exception of the following to his 
wife, which is inserted on the principle of conveying 
‘the very force and body of the time, its form and 
pressure’ upon his mind. How different the result 


7Br. 46} LETTER TO HIS WIFE. 277 


proved to his calculations, and how far his impres- 
sions were in many points from coinciding with 
reality, he was to learn to his exceeding cost; and 
that his state of spirit was morbid, owing to over- 
exertion of the mind and to impatience of the sur- 
rounding scene, was painfully evident to the receiver 
of his letters. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[ Translation. ] Berlin: Monday, 28th November, 1837. 


My BeEtovep,— You will have felt that my last letter came 
from a heavy heart ; and the newspapers will in part have 
given the explanation. It isa strange feeling with which 
one beholds in one moment a great and incalculable future 
stamped with its essential condition: that is what has 
really occurred. Perhaps I felt this not quite for the first 
time; but it was the first time that I was not alone con- 
cerned with the present. Not that I ever doubted of the 
final victory of truth and right, for that is wholly and 
entirely on our side; but I dreaded that blood might flow 
before it should be possible to bring the multitude out of 
their infatuation. But 1 took comfort in the thought, 
which I expressed to Herr von Bodelschwingh: ‘God will 
surely not let us pay the penalty for having exhausted all 
indulgence and Jong suffering in such long delay ;’ the King, 
with his own peculiar moderation and consideration, having 
worn out every form of persuasion towards that fanatical, 
crafty pretender to sanctity (the Archbishop of Cologne), so 
that he well foresaw his lot, and had prepared himself for it. 
His plan was, to escape into the Cathedral, to place himself 
before the altar, cause all the doors to be opened, and invite 
the violence he expected. But he wus taken by surprise, 
through the resolution and firmness of two distinguished 
men, the President von Bodelschwingh and the General von 
Pfnel (the same who in 1815 commanded at Paris, and in 


278 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1837 


1830 was governor of Nenufchatel), and thus time was gained 
for acting upon the population, the whole of which, as well 
as of the lower clergy, with few exceptions, are on the side of 
Government. The greater part of Germany, from the Baltic 
to the Alps, is not against us, but with us and for us, from 
motives the most various in kind. . . . That I, to the very 
last moment, strove to save the Archbishop, you will believe, 
without my assurance. The Crown Prince is now, almost 
more than his father, irritated at the unworthy behaviour 
of the man whom he recommended, and valued! He sees 
to what it tended. 

Tam, God be thanked, as well as I am busy. I sleep 
quietly, and take little food, yet you must be prepared for 
finding me grown stout, and 1 seem to myself to have 
become very old. JI am cheerful with all that, I think, 
although with little occasion for being so. 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold. 
Berlin: 17th October, 1837. 


It is only a short time that I have known with certainty 
that I shall, if alive, pass the next Christmas on the Capitol. 
I leave Berlin at the end of November, and am to embark 
on the steam vessel from Trieste on the 16th December. 
Whether my stay at Rome will be prolonged beyond next 
spring is uncertain, but if, and whenever, I leave it, it will 
be with my whole family. This is the great present result 
of my stay here this time. 

When this was decided, my first thought was directed 
towards the Capitol, my second to you. May I not hope to 
see you now, as you once intended, at Christmas? Might 
we not meet on the road? My days are numbered on 
account of business at Vienna. If you should go to Venice, 
our meeting on the road might be certain, for a daily steam- 
boat runs between Venice and Trieste. But I will not be 
unreasonable; let me only hope to celebrate a German 
Christmas-eve with you and yours on the Capitol, no dmpe- 
rator will ever have been happier. .. . 


Air. 46] EXTRACTS FROM HIS ‘NOTES!’ 279 


To the Same. 
> Berlin: December, 1837. 

After 150 days’ absence I am about to return to the 
Capitol, and must at least send some hurried lines to you. 
The great struggle between hierarchal arrogance and pre- 
tentions and sovereign and national power, has begun here. 
I have had to wield Jove’s thunderbolt by command, as 
before I had to propose and try the extremost measures of 
conciliation towards peace. 

People here believe that I am to return to Berlin in the 
spring. I only know that I shall protest against a second 
temporary stay with dictatorial powers, and claim an hon- 
ourable, free, though not ambitious permanent situation, if 
they want me. 


The transactions of October and November, 1837, 
are recorded in detail in Bunsen’s private notes, but 
shall be passed over in silence here with only the ex- 
pression of an opinion, at this distance of time and 
on a general review of facts, that the amount of 
unassisted labour and of responsibility foreed upon 
him produced a morbid excitement, and deprived him 
of the power of self-defence, while at the same time 
his instinct was strongly set against any final settle- 
ment at Berlin. The extracts from his Notes, both 
the preceding and the following, contain his senti- 
ments in his own words, considerably abridged. 

December, 1837.—‘ This was a time of mistakes; 
they arose from the nature of the task laid upon 
Bunsen, and which he had undertaken; it was not 
merely a difficult, but an impossible one, and so it 
had been in fact from the very beginning, at Berlin.’ 

After enumerating the difficulties which in 


280 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. _ [1837 


the course of so many years he had been enabled to 
overcome, he exclaims, ‘Why might not this time 
also the impossible be made possible, and peace con- 
eluded with Rome, by my personal representations ? ’ 
All around seemed to be persuaded of the probability 
of his success—why should he doubt? This state of 
feeling may explain, even morally excuse, but not 
remove the enormous error. On that last evening 
the Crown Prince had said, ‘ L’archévéque leur pése ; 
they know not what to do with him.’ So it was—a 
step had been taken without due estimation of its im- 
portance. He who had been called upon to take an 
active share in the transaction was the same who, 
following in the track of Niebuhr, had firmly opposed 
the system of imposing the unbending letter of the 
law upon the members of the Church of Rome, and 
thus had incurred the suspicion of Crypto-catholi- 
cism ; and the extremity, in which he had acted, was 
that which no one but himself had laboured to 
avert. Yet, with a little more circumspection and a 
greater calmness of mind, Bunsen himself might 
have foreseen the catastrophe in which he was to be 
the chief sufferer. 

The coming burst of indignation against him was 
kept back by tidings of the signal distinction with 
which he was received at Vienna by Prince Metter- 
nich. But this reception contributed still further 
to mark him at Berlin as a dangerous man, whose 
return thither must be prevented by every possible 
means. Signs many in number occurred on this 
journey, which, if attended to, would have withheld 
Bunsen from rushing upon what, in human language, 


Er. 46] PRINCE METTERNICH. 28] 


' might be called his ruin. One of the most remarkable 
was the goodwill shown him by Prince Metternich, 
not only in a long and confidential interview on the 
evening of his arrival, but by sending to him when 
the travelling carriage was already at the door, to 
ask for a second conference, when he read to him a 
despatch just received from Roine, urging upon Bun- 
sen yet more strongly than before not to venture 
upon returning to his post, and adding the remark- 
able words, ‘I advise you as a friend, remain here, at 
least a fortnight! I will answer for the speedy 
arrival of a fresh courier. I promise to make your 
stay agreeable to you. I take upon myself the re- 
sponsibility towards the King. Jn dubws abstine! 
is always my maxim.’ Never was better advice 
given; and to Bunsen it was so convincing, that he 
did not conceal from Metternich his belief that it 
would be right to wait, at least for further consider- 
ation. He actually dismissed the post-horses, but. 
sent to consult his colleague, Baron Maltzahn, the 
Prussian Envoy at Vienna, in whose friendly senti- 
ments towards him he had reason to trust. Malt- 
zahn, however, was decisive as to Bunsen’s immediate 
departure, and argued, with Herr von Thile (Bunsen’s 
faithful companion and friend), ‘ Wherefore should 
Metternich desire to detain you, but that he appre- 
hends Bunsen’s presence in Rome would bring things 
right again? How can you calculate the disadvan- 
tage of one day’s delay? At Berlin they could not 
forgive you for stopping half-way—it would look like 
fear.” Bunsen renewed the order for the post-horses 
—Maltzahn undertaking to convey his apology to 


282 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


the Prince. This was an inexcusable error on the 
part of Bunsen—who had again received a warning, 
but, alas! in vain. 

After travelling day and night, he reached Trieste, 
and found intelligence from Rome; not from the 
Chargé d’Affaires (Herr von Buch), but from Reumont 
and from his wife. The Pope had declared that he 
would never receive Bunsen. Should he now turn 
back? Having quitted Vienna, whither should he 
go? He embarked, and at Ancona received the news 
of the Pope’s Allocution,—that Capaccini had great 
misgivings as to his coming. A message from Buch 
signified that the Cardinal Secretary of State had 
let him know confidentially that Bunsen would not 
be received by the Pope, though no official intima- 
tion of this determination was to be communicated 
to him. 

From Ancona Bunsen addressed, on the spur of 
the moment, a note to the Papal Government, which 
failed of its purpose, because it rested upon a false 
supposition —the firm attitude on the part of his 
Government. 

In a letter of early days, about 1825, Bunsen’s 
course of then unassisted labour was described by 
one who daily saw and knew what he effected, as 
the life of a high-bred hunter, well kept and having 
abundance of all things necessary to well-being, but 
held at the full stretch of all his powers in unceasing 
exertion. Now, at length overdone, did the high- 
mettled steed rush homewards by instinct, having 
lost, in excess of strain, the power to discern objects 
in their reality. 


Er. 46] THE KING CONSENTS TO HIS RETIREMENT. 283 


Bunsen re-entered his sanctuary on the Capitol a 
few days before the beloved festival of Christmas, 
when worldly prudence would have dictated retreat- 
ing to Florence to await orders, or an immediate 
return to Berlin to defend himself and the cause he 
had advocated. But thankfully do all those who 
loved him look back upon the ‘refuge from the 
storm, the shadow from the heat,’ experienced by 
Bunsen during the following three months while he 
was awaiting the return of the courier despatched 
January 8, 1838, and then upon the much desired 
leave of absence, granted to him at last, for a journey 
to England, and a residence there for a year. During 
this period Bunsen found in his Egyptian researches 
effectual exercise and relaxation for a mind that could 
not rest in inaction; and the society of attached 
friends furnished the accustomed solace. 

The festival of Easter and the preceding Passion 
Week were invested with the greater solemnity, as 
the courier was shortly expected to arrive, and to 
bring a despatch, on the contents of which the future 
fate of Bunsen would depend. On the Monday after 
Kaster the expected messenger arrived, meeting Bun- 
sen and his family as they had just issued from the 
chapel after Divine service and after partaking of 
the Holy Communion, and were entering the garden 
at the foot of Palazzo Caffarelli. The moment was 
one of deep emotion, too powerfully swelling the 
heart in the consciousness of the past and the future, 
for uny admixture of common sorrow, as Bunsen 
opened the packet containing the King’s consent to 
his giving up his post and to his making use of this 
leave of absence for a journey to England. 


284 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1858 


Bunsen’s own words, in the Notes relating to the 
late transactions, testify to his consciousness of a 
blow which he had not anticipated, and of a fall 
for which he was not prepared, either for himself 
personally, or for the cause he had advocated. But 
the accompanying letter of the Crown Prince, while it 
explained and delineated that state of feeling towards 
Bunsen which he had been the first person to pre- 
dict on their parting at Berlin, conveyed as usual a 
balm to his wound, by proving that the express will 
of the King had interfered to prevent disgrace and 
mortification from being added in order to give 
bitterness to the unavoidable fall. He was simply 
permitted to make use of the requested leave of 
absence, and not dismissed. But the letter of the 
Crown Prince expressed his decided wish that Bunsen 
should come in person to Berlin, accompanying the 
courier who must be sent thither. Bunsen’s own 
feeling was against forcing himself in such a manner 
into the presence of his King; but he respected too 
much the opinion of the Crown Prince (who was 
persuaded that a personal statement by Bunsen would 
alter the King’s view of the circumstances) to refuse 
to act in accordance with it. Yet his extreme dis- 
inclination to make another break and separation in 
the family life, and the longing to take a gradual 
leave of Ituly and the period of his life which was 
now about to come to a close, induced him to resolve 
upon a degree of self-indulgence very foreign to his 
habits when important business was concerned. He 
fixed upon Dr. Franz (an excellent Greek scholar, 
afterwards Greek Professor at Berlin, then about to 


Air. 46) DEPARTURE FROM ROME. 285 


proceed with his family to Berlin), as courier, and 
took him in his own light travelling carriage with 
post-horses; but he gave way to the disinclination 
at once to part from his collective possessions in life, 
and instead of making a direct and rapid journey to 
Berlin, allowed himself to accompany the slow pro- 
gress of the large vetturino-carriage which contained 
his wife and the six younger children: nor did he 
part from them to proceed onwards with greater 
haste till after he had cast a last glance upon 
Florence. <A letter from Florence to Kestner gives 
an account of his feelings on this journey; but a 
few words must here be devoted to describe the bitter 
parting from Rome, which took place ten days after 
the arrival of the award from Berlin. The amount 
of business which had to be done, and the packing 
and arranging of everything, did much to prevent 
all brooding over the present sorrow; the days were 
too busy for receiving visits of farewell; but the 
evenings were filled up by the kind presence of re- 
sretful friends. For an account of their departure, 
the words of an attached and valued friend shall be 
quoted :— 

‘Bunsen left Rome on April 29, 1838, after a 
residence altogether of twenty-two years, twenty-one 
of which were passed on the Capitol. He quitted 
his beloved home with a firm step and unbroken 
spirit, saying to his wife, ‘Come, and let us seek 
another Capitol elsewhere.’ His carriage was sur- 
rounded by a band of faithful friends, as well as 
a number of younger men, most of whom he had 
himself drawn to Rome, whose minds he had guided 


26 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1838 


into new paths of intellectual discovery, whose 
career he had watched over and assisted, and whose 
hearts he had won for life by his affectionate and 
untiring care and sympathy. They saw in him the 
centre of an active intellectual life, which Rome has 
never known since, and which could have been main- 
tained only by a German, who, as Ampere truly said, 
was ‘not only the representative of Prussia to the 
Papal See, but of German learning to Roman an- 
tiquity... No one who was admitted in Bunsen’s 
time to the halls of Palazzo Caffarelli will ever for- 
get either their far-stretching prospect over Rome, 
or the assemblage of eminent men whom Bunsen’s 
power of attraction gathered round him every winter ; 
while the hospitable Villa Piccolomini at Frascati 
will live in the hearts and memories of a smaller 
circle, who were admitted to the happy unfettered 
family-life, which went on through the quiet sunny 
summer-months on those breezy and wooded heights. 
And the soul of this delightful domestic establish- 
ment was the head of the household, whose gifts of 
heart no less than of intellect, whose unceasing 
activity of thought, gave zest and animation to the 
family life at home, as well as to the friendly inter- 
course in other, wider, and more varied circles.’ * 


Bunsen to Kestner. 
| Translation. | Florence: Monday morning, 7th May, 1838. 


BELOVED FrienD !— Now it is that I indeed tear myself 
away from Rome, and from Italy, inasmuch as I qnit 
Florence, hasten towards the Alps, and take my last leave 


* Abeken, in the article of Unsere Zeit, 1861. 


Er. 46] LETTER TO KESTNER. 287 


of you. A great and splendid Past lies before my mind, 
closed and concluded ; out of which your image shines upon 
me, the image of faithful and high-minded friendship. 
That image will rise in all the strength of remembrance of 
the spring-time of life, in proportion as the chasm widens 
and deepens between the old and the new. Once again, 
therefore, in comparative nearness, from this side of the 
Alps, receive the thankful outpouring of the warmest at- 
tachment to you for all your kindness and affection ; and 
let not too much time elapse without a greeting by letter. 
I intend to be at Berlin on Thursday, the 16th: I found it 
impossible to tear myself away sooner from my family and 
from Italy. From Rome I drove with my wife in the open 
carriage, the children (with Meyer and Franz) going on 
before, in short day’s journeys (like a courier-drive of 
pleasure), as far as beautiful Siena; thence I broke away 
in the evening, and reached Pisa by midnight; next day I 
was with the faithful Rosellini, morning, noon, and even- 
ing, seeing between times the grand monuments of a 
renowned past. The Duomo of Pisa is the honour and 
ornament of Italian humanity in the eleventh and twelfth 
centuries, and the Campo Santo is the finest and most 
affecting conception of the kind in the whole of the middle 
ages. There my mind expanded in peace; and there I 
could wish to die were I not a German, and did I not hope 
to aid in the building of a new Campo Santo. The next 
morning I was at Florence; my first walk was to the Loggie 
di Orgagna. . . . Yesterday evening I went thither again, 
and not without a blessing upon the meditations which the 
place inspired. I entered doubting whether I should allow 
myself another day at Florence, and came out resolved to 
hasten with all speed towards Berlin. I take with me the 
freshened image of all that is most beautiful in the middle 
ages:—the Pisani, Luca della Robbia, Orgagna, Benozzo, 
Giotto, and Raphael, are those who are highest placed in this 
Pantheon. But now the call of the moment is, to turn heart 


288 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


and head towards the future and the fatherland. Whither? 
That may be decided in a month. I hope by the 15th June 
to greet the modern metropolis of the world, and for a 
hundred days to plunge into England and into English 
life. This had ever been my wish, as a fit close to a 
wandering life, and as the last act of consecration for 
work and influence in the fatherland and in the present ; 
and this wish, according to all appearance, will be granted 
to me. 


The courier-journey to Berlin, which Bunsen was 
induced to undertake, overcoming his own disin- 
clination in compliance with the strongly expressed 
desire of the Crown Prince, began in fact only when 
he broke away from Florence a week after having 
quitted Rome, thereby giving time for the exertion 
of influence on the part of his opponents to prevent 
his being allowed to reach Berlin. 


Bunsen to Kestner. 
[ Translation. | Munich: Sunday, 12th May, 1838. 


I hasten to announce to you that I arrived here safely, 
and I can add a piece of intelligence, not just what you 
would have expected, but yet to be rejoiced in. How hard 
the separation from you and the cluldren in Florence 
proved I have already expressed in my lines from Bologna; 
} did not anticipate that it would be so short. The intelli- 
gence I found on my arrival here has determined me to 
resume our former travelling plan, and to proceed straight, 
all of us together; and the directions are so distinct as to 
afford me the certainty that the Crown Prince will not be 
offended by my not complying now with his gracious invi- 
tation. The day after to-morrow I despatch my faithful 
travelling companion (Dr. Franz) with all the needful 
papers to Berlin ; and then I shall quietly await you here. 


Ait. 46] RECEIVES A DESPATCH FROM THE KING. 289 


I lodge with my sister. The rest which I shall now obtain 
may probably save me from an illness; for I travelled from 
Florence to this place in four days without sleeping. Next 
Wednesday I am to begin communicating to Schelling my 
‘ Agyptiaca.’ 


The statement in this letter is worded with studied 
precision, in anticipation of its being inspected by 
Austrian officials; but the shock was very severe 
when, a few hours after reaching Munich (10th May), 
not having found anything addressed to him at the 
Post-office, Bunsen received by estafette what he 
qualifies as a ‘ prohibition.’ It was a mildly-worded 
utterance of the King’s will, that he should ‘ at once 
make use of his leave of absence for the journey to 
England.’ He expresses in his Notes, that ‘ this was 
the hardest moment of the whole time.’ ‘ But,’ he 
observes, ‘ this too was overcome.’ 


VOL. I. U 


290 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


CHAPTER VIII. 
FIRST JOURNEY TO ENGLAND. 


RECEPTION IN ENGLAND—SBIR BENJAMIN HALL——-MR. PUSEY—ARCHDEACON 
HARE—EXPLANATION OF PROPHECY—VISIT TO WALES——DR. PRITCHARD 
——-BSIR T. ACLAND—POWDERHAM CASTLE—GLADSTONE ON CHURCH AND 
STATER—OXFORD—PARLIAMENT—LORD ASHLEY—‘ QUARTERLY REVIEW’ 
ON COLOGNE QUESTION-~—MRS. FRY—-LAW OF DIVORCE-—HIGH WOOD. 


At Munich not only rest of body and restoration of 
mind, but a variety of enjoyment awaited Bunsen and 
his family. To the latter this was the first introduc- 
tion to German life, and calculated to give the most 
favourable impression of that condition, so different 
from any that they had known. The refinement of 
thought and feeling, in the highly intellectual society 
with which they became acquainted, combined strik- 
ingly with a simplicity of habits and an absence of 
all attempts at external display, which might have 
been deemed ideal. 


Bunsen to Kestner. 
(Translation. | Munich: 11th June, 1838. 


BeEtovep Frrenp !—Here I am still at Munich, and shall 
remain over July ; so it is with human plans! but how glad 
I am to be here I wish to let you know. First, I had the 
joy of being able to take up and complete some unfinished 
writings; and then I found a copy (which I was able to 
purchase) of notes taken during Schelling’s lectures, and I 
was so seized upon by the giant conception, that I resolve 


Er. 46] LETTER TO DR. ARNOLD. 291 


to take time by the forelock, and in this place at once 
to sound its depths, as far as I should have power to do 
so. This is what constitutes my principal task here, and 
my progress in this direction is matter of continual delight 
tome. Much diversity of opinion arises, which I discuss 
with Schelling, but quite independently of the fundamental 
principle of this admirable work. My ‘ A‘gyptiaca’ have 
formed the outward point of connection with these re- 
searches, as the inward link lay in an ever-increasing sense 
of need on my part. Along with this there is much going 
on besides, and much is springing up anew, and getting 
finished. I feel as if it were impossible to part again from 
these pursuits. My friends in England are very impatient 
of my delay. The University of Oxford intends for me the 
honour of a degree, as soon as I shall arrive, of Doctor of 
Laws, the dignity they bestowed upon old Blicher in 1814 : 
and in London I have three invitations to friendly houses 
in which to take up my abode—one from Sir F. Ord, whom 
personally I know notas yet. Arnold has dedicated to me 
his ‘ Roman History,’ with the frankness of an Englishman 
and the effusion of a friend ;—so they write to me, for I have 
not yet seen the volume. Pusey will have me to live in his 
house in London, and afterwards accompany him to Pusey, 
So does everything present itself, according to all appear- 
ance, ina most friendly aspect ;—but who knows the future ? 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold. 
Munich: Ist August, 1838. 


I send these hurried lines, my dearest friend, on the very 
eve of our departure from this place, because I cannot de- 
lay longer expressing to you my gratitude for your admirable 
first volume of the ‘ Roman History,’ which I have been en- 
abled to see here, and for the kind and only too flattering 
manner in which your friendship has prompted you to 
connect my name with it. But let me now speak of the 
work itself, or rather tell you on what text I shall speak 

v2 


292 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


when we meet. Your plan is excellent, your style worthy of 
the subject, your research and judgment worthy of your 
great predecessors and standards, Niebuhr and Thucydides. 
That is not my opinion only, but that of all who have here 
seen it. 


At Frankfort, besides enjoying a friendly recep- 
tion from his old friends, Radowitz and Sydow, 
Bunsen received the commission from Berlin to write 
a State paper on the late transactions. It was ina 
degree soothing to his feelings to be called upon to 
do this, but, as he justly observes in his Notes, ‘To 
undertake this, without documents at hand, and with- 
out a hope that his work would be seen by the public, 
was the last error of many that he had committed.’ 

The Notes go on to give a few particulars of 
Bunsen’s public business after arriving in England, 
on his birthday, August 25, 1838. He was surprised 
at finding ‘ entire ignorance of the state of the case’ 
which had created such commotion in Germany : 
having then to learn, what he had afterwards frequent 
opportunity of observing, that the English public 
mind, dwelling upon an immense amount of inter- 
ests, general and individual, which belong to national 
concerns, requires time in order to take any cogni- 
sance of foreign transactions, not self-evidently having 
a bearing upon England. ‘ Among those who were 
most favourable to Prussia no distinct opinion had 
been formed: in the party of O’Connell enmity 
against Prussia was active as well as among the 
diplomatic representatives of the Catholic Powers. 
Personally, Bunsen was met with the most encourag- 
ing confidence and kindness by the decidedly Protes- 


JE. 47] ARRIVES IN LONDON.. 293 


tant and zealous party. Soon after, in the periodical 
publications, not only of the Roman Catholics, but 
even in the Ministerial ‘ Globe,’ attacks were made 
upon the Prussian Government; against which, in 
entire understanding with the Prussian Minister, 
Herr von Bulow (whose confidence never deserted 
him), Bunsen defended the cause by means of articles 
inserted in the ‘ Times,’ the ‘ Standard,’ in the 
‘Quarterly’ and ‘ Foreign Quarterly’ Reviews, 
written by friends, whom he furnished with particu- 
lars and documents. This summing up is given to 
avoid returning later to the subject; but some ac- 
count is due of the beginning of a period so fraught 
with interest and with consolation as that just com- 
menced in England. 

For a few days after the arrival of the party in 
London they remained together in the hospitable 
house, in Wimpole Street, of their brother-in-law, Sir 
Benjamin Hall, and enjoyed the warm reception of 
many friends whom they had first met and valued at 
Rome. On the 4th September Bunsen willingly saw 
his wife and children depart, to repair to the home 
prepared for them by Mrs. Waddington at Llanover, 
Monmouthshire, intending to follow them speedily 
after a few more visits to the spot of most attraction 
to him, the British Museum. A letter to his wife, of 
the 6th September, relates the cause which changed 
this plan. 

Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. } London: 6th September. 

It is unnecessary to say how my thoughts have accom- 
panied you, and how thankful I was for the fine night and 


294 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


morning which favoured your journey. I tried yesterday 
to do without you as well as I could; from the British 
Museum I went tothe Mint, with Mr. W. Hamilton, and 
from thence to the Club. I must confess that I have a 
developed sciatica ; in spite of the blister, the pain was so 
violent last night that I had scarcely any sleep. 

Sunday, 9th September.—. . . I am still suffering so much 
that I cannot dine to-day at Lord Ashley’s; I would not 
risk being shut up in London for months by a relapse, as 
happened at Naples to Mr. Elphinstone, who has come to 
see me regularly in my tortures. Iwas better this morning 
before your letter came to give me a new sensation of life. 

As to my plans, I have none; I know not yet when I 
can undertake to travel without danger, and long sitting 
is what I can least bear. Then I cannot leave London 
before the article is made up. 


The remainder of September was spent in await- 
ing convalescence: the arrival of Lepsius being the 
most effective of all in helping Bunsen through days 
of compulsory inaction, till at length he was able to 
venture upon the journey to Rugby, whither the 
railway was in that very week opened. That short 
visit to Rugby proved a bright spot in Bunsen’s life ; 
and the friendship kept alive by written communica- 
tions ever since the first meeting with Dr. Arnold at 
Rome in May 1827, and now confirmed and doubled 
by union in heart and sympathy with Mrs. Arnold, was 
thenceforth interwoven with the tissue of his life. 

From Rugby, Bunsen, with his wife and eldest son, 
who had rejoined him in London, returned to Llan- 
over in time for the Welsh festival in October, called 
the Cwmreiggyddion, a meeting with the object of 
encouraging and preserving the fine arts of music 


2x. 47] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 295 


and poetry, as cultivated from time immemorial in 
the Principality, and in the Welsh half of the county 
of Monmouth, which in earlier days must have been 
more exclusively Welsh than it is at present. 

Early in November, Bunsen left the maternal 
home for a tour of visits among friends, of which his 
letters give an account. The first is dated from 
Redcliffe Lodge, at Bristol, the residence of Dr. 
Pritchard, whose ethnological works were matter of 
all the more delight and admiration to Bunsen, as 
they were new of their kind in a country where eth- 
nology had yet to be admitted among the number of 
sciences worthy of cultivation. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


IT am sure that you and dearest mamma will have followed 
us on the wings of those glorious sunbeams that shone upon 
us yesterday. It was an ideal journey, as to the scenery 
and variety of interesting objects. Hall arranged all things 
s0 kindly and so cleverly for us that we saw every object 
well, and yet did not miss the packet at Newport, although 
arriving at the last moment. The Avon and the Bristol 
Channel are truly beautiful, and the situation of Clifton, 
close to Bristol, is the finest of any English town I have 
yet seen. We landed, and just a3 we were arranging our 
packages Sir Thomas Acland suddenly stood before me ; 
he had brought Mr. and Mrs. Harford from Blaise Castle to 
meet me; he was accompanied by another gentleman with 
& very prepossessing, well-known, unknown face, who in 
English and German claimed my old acquaintance ; it was 
Stapleton, whom I last saw at Gottingen, in 1812. 

Dr. Pritchard’s house stands on the foundation of an 
ancient abbey of Carmelites ; in the inside is the date 1590, 
and there is a splendid drawing-room, of which the walls 


296 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1888 


and ceiling are covered with the finest carving, of flowers 
and beautiful figures of angels. The whole family was col- 
lected, including the eldest son, who is Tutor at Oriel 
College, mother and daughter very pleasing, and taking 
interest in the occupations and studies of the husband and 
fatber. After dinner we had some good singing and play- 
ing, and we talked on till near midnight. 


Killerton (Sir Thomas Acland’s): 18th November, 1838. 


As to my plans, I must first await Tom Acland here, who 
is now in the midst of Parliamentary visits, dinners, and 
speeches. To-day I am not up to any resolution, first owing 
to having taken Dr. P.’s prescription, and secondly on 
account of the letter of good and faithful Usedom, which 
I enclose. You will see that matters are threatening, so 
that of my three creations at Rome perhaps not one will 
remain.” All is in the hands of God. I have long foreseen 
the present crisis. My private opinion is that the Cardinal 
intends not yet the breach; but they are going on in the 
spirit of fanaticism and folly. I shall answer Usedom that 
I do not intend to write one word to Berlin unless they ask 
my opinion. I care no more about my next external posi- 
tion than about the mountains in the moon; I know God’s 
will will be done, in spite of them all, and to my greatest 
benefit. What that is He alone knows. Only one thing 
T think I see clearly, my whole life is without sense and 
lasting use, if I squander it on affairs of the day, brilliant or 
even important as they may be. My world is in the future 
time, for that I have felt and thought; I have seen there 
dangers and wars, and schisms and confusion, but also the 
only safe place to flee to. These truths I will confess, with 
my life, and with my writings and counsels. I know that 
at present few people can say and do in these respects what 


* The intention of the Papal Government was to have closed both 
the chapel of the Prussian Legation in Palazzo Caffurelli, and the 
hospital on Monte Caprino the very day after Bunsen’s departure. 


ZEt. 47] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 297 


I can: there is my treasure and my heart. Tell me sincerely 
and openly, my love and good angel, what you think and 
feel about it: your own, own independent opinion, your own 
heart’s and conscience’s word. 


Killerton: Tuesday, 20th November, 1838, 


.. . Yesterday was the great day to visit the Bishop of 
Exeter: you may imagine how anxious he was to learn the 
state of the Cologne business. I gave him in two hours a 
sufficient sketch, and to-day have sent him the papers. To- 
morrow he will dine here : to-day Cockerell and Mr. Harford 
are expected. Thursday we are to go to the Earl of Devon, 
at Powderham Castle, and assist in the evening at a chris- 
tening. Saturday, Tom Acland and others will be here. 
Sunday, we go to Exeter for the morning service—it is 
hoped the Bishop will preach: the most ancient piece of 
music has been selected for the Anthem, for me to hear— 
in short, between the Member for the county and the Bishop 
of the diocese, I am well provided for. I was to have been 
present at a great school meeting on Tuesday, but have 
fought off that, as well as a dinner at the Bishop’s—else 
it is a great delight to talk with a man of such eminent 
talent. 

The atmosphere of this house does me good, even though 
of course a sort of whirlwind, not acknowledging time and 
hour, is ever circling; but there is true kindness and 
moral worth, with excellent intellectual qualities, through- 
out. 

Gladstone’s book is coming out. As to Rome, I have 
given the whole into God’s faithful hands. 

Wednesday, 21st.—It is rainy, and all things are wrapped 
in a wet blanket, impenetrable for the rays of the sun, 
equally for snow and frost. I walk about in the house, talk, 
and read and write, as I choose. In the evening we talk 
till twelve o’clock in accustomed cordiality and seriousness. 
It is a miserable season, certainly, for travelling, and were 


298 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


it not for the obelisk at Kingston Lacy, and the Ker 
Seymers at Hanford, I should not go a mile out of my way 
home. 

Sunday morning, 25th.—The parties, wanderings, dinners, 
journeys, of the last few days left me scarcely any minutes, 
and the arrival of the article for the ‘Quarterly Review,’ in 
proof sheets, absorbed those. 

This is a large Elizabethan house [Hanford], built 1620, 
with fine rooms, but cold. Thank God, the moral and in- 
tellectual atmosphere is warm, otherwise I should take a chill 
to my heart. Tell mamma she must send me to some good 
Whigs: this journey has made me more a Tory than ever 
I was. To return to Kxeter—on Sunday the Bishop 
preached: people said it was done for my sake, as he 
preaches but four or five times in a year, and had lately done 
so. His sermon was a Bishop’s sermon, argumentative and 
full: it contained matter for ten ordinary sermons. I told 
him so after church. I thank him for it the more, as it has 
left me a soothing impression : I should otherwise only have 
had before me the eloquent and sarcastic statesman. There 
is more in him, I really believe. The service was beautiful 
and moved me deeply. I know exactly now what I can 
adopt, and what are its defects. 


[Translation. | 
Hanford : ‘Tuesday morning, six o'clock ; 5th December, 1838. 

My Betovep !—All is still within and without, and thus 
T can set myself to write to you once more from this place, 
out of the depth of my heart—before Caspar comes and 
preparations must be made for the journey, which is to 
bring us to-day in eleven hours,a distance of 110 miles, 
to London. 

When heart and eyes have overflowed (not with a current 
of inundation, but as a tranquil well-spring rising to the 
sacred morning light from its dark depths), as has often 
been my blessed consciousness in this quiet room, then has 
my heart turned to you with unspeakable love and longing, 


ZEr. 47] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 299 


but also mournfully and painfully. While I have been 
refreshed and strengthened by nature, art, and contempla- 
tion of the human soul’s native beauty, and have drunk in 
new life from all I have seen and experienced, you are turn- 
ing singly and alone the heavy wheel of life’s daily work, not 
because you have no taste or opportunity for other pursuits, 
but because in your daily task you see the way of duty. 
You, beloved! in whose ardent earnestness, purity, and 
gentleness, the divine was first revealed to me personally, 
and the prospect opened, in community of love to wend our 
way to Heaven together (leaving those to watch over their 
cares, who are ever more deeply burying themselves in the 
dark chasm of self)—youw are overwhelmed with the cares 
of life, not those of selfishness, but of love and exertion for 
those nearest to you—you, who understand how to take 
advantage of every moment granted for raising the mind, 
and for the contemplation of ligher existence, yet have often 
in the blessed long day not an instant in which to rise out 
of the flood of laborious avocations! That you yet ever con- 
tinue fresh in capability is a peculiar grace of God, and your 
spirit is kept up by the consciousness of effecting good, and 
of the love and grateful veneration of the surrounding 
recipients of benefit, among which, the first, most blessed, 
and most thankful am I. But yet it is become clear to me, 
in these days of heaven’s hght, that so it must not go on. 
Our pilgrimage is now in the downward vale of life: let us 
try to secure frequent moments of solemn consecration, 
of taste for the higher consciousness, which presupposes 
leisure and repose. The intervals in which we used to 
edify and revive each other have become in the latter years 
ever more rare in recurrence—not because we have ex- 
hausted all utterance and feeling, so that only the earthly 
deposit of our married life remains—not as though we 
could no longer mutually kindle life and elicit sparks—no ; 
but merely because the load of our earthly day’s work has 
increased upon us, and its principal weight is thrown upon 


300 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


your shoulders. And that thought is oppressive to me; 
for with you I desire ever more and more to share the 
highest reach of spirituality—you not only understand me, 
but you fan, and clear, and purify the flame. In you and 
with you I shall ever be sure of finding the response to my 
better self. At this moment I know not how to help but 
by taking a larger share myself. I pray to be enabled to 
see more clearly, and that the way may be shown me. But 
you also, dearest, help me in this—think over our life, and 
tell me what you think. I hope to return to you, not all 
that I wish, a new-born, thoroughly earnest being, but re- 
freshed and stirred up in my innermost life: clearer than 
before as to myself and my lot. Nothing is near in this 
existence but the seeming distant; nothing true but the 
highest; nothing credible but the inconceivable; nothing 
so real as the seemingly impossible ; nothing clear but the 
deepest ; nothing so visible as the invisible ; and no life is 
there but through death. I could go on in this strain till 
the day should close; but its course is drawing me on— 
whither? To you, although by a circuitous way. 


The feeling that would have prompted the suppres- 
sion of the last letter has been silenced by the considera- 
tion that the object of these pages is to make Bunsen 
known, as no one ever knew him but the writer ; and 
this effusion, in his beloved ‘ hour of prime’ (to use 
his own language), is peculiarly characteristic. To 
the receiver it was so far a surprise, as she had not 
been aware of his even observing the amount of her 
avocations; he had probably been led to reflect upon 
this by questions mooted in conversation at Hanford 
with a lovely being, beloved both by Bunsen and his 
wife as an adopted daughter, of whom they had seen 
much in Italy, Louisa Ker Seymer, married in the 
following year to the excellent Edward Denison, 


ZEr. 47) LETTERS TO HIS WIFE.—ROGERS THE POET. 3801 


Bishop of Salisbury, and taken away from the hap- 
piest married life in September 1841. The sense ex- 
pressed by Bunsen of his wife’s excess of labour and 
care never was less applicable to the case in question 
than at that time, when, under the shelter of the most 
loving and lovely of mothers, she was enjoying peace 
and leisure for uninterrupted attention to her six 
younger children. 

From London Bunsen continued to write daily and 
fully ; but of a large portion of these letters nothing 
requires to be extracted, as their substance related to 
his unwearied and successful endeavours to bring the 
facts of the Cologne case before the probable writers 
of articles in various Reviews, by communicating to 
them documents which he alone could furnish. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
Travellers’ Club: 4th December, 1838, six o'clock. 


Here am I again in the midst of real life and business, 
speaking, hearing, thinking, feeling English, and therefore 
I write to you again in that shape. I have done a great 
deal of business since I sent off my last letter this morning. 

I shall not go away until I have set all things a-going, 
but I have no mind to be detained here or anywhere else. 
I am as active and as bustling as a spaniel after dinner, and 
berides, am longing to be with you, both with my English 
and German heart, with head, and mind, and everything. . . 

Saturday, 8th December.—I have been to Rogers, and saw 
his beautiful house and collection. It is not that poets are 
wealthy in England, but rich men write verses, i.e. measured 
prose. He is an amiable old man in manners, in whom the 
habits of mercantile life have helped to counteract that cor- 
rupt voluptuousness extending to intellect, so usual (and 


302 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


particularly in this country) among old bachelors delighting 
in the fine arts. My mind is in a balancing state, not quite 
sunk again in the common world, and no longer quite in the 
spheres of light. Schelling and England in the two poles of 
my existence are re-awakening the enfeebled electricity, and 
thus fresh life streams into the accumulated ballast with 
which I had loaded my vessel. I must endeavour to volati- 
lise this, or I shal] not stand the high seas; to rest in the 
haven of formalism and pedantry is once for all impossible. 
I feel that it were better to perish in the struggle with the 
highest, than lose a long existence among things of smaller 
value, and the deceptions of the moment, Take this as a 
moderate expression of what I feel much more strongly. 
The Lord has not guided me in both those ways in His 
wrath but with His eye of love; and may He grant me not 
to misuse the gifts of Heaven to follow mere inclination or 
the most inviting illusions of self and of sense! .. . 


To the Same. 


65, Wimpole Street, Thursday evening, half-past nine: 
13th December, 1838. 

Last night, at eleven, when I came from the Duke of 
Lucca, Gladstone’s book was on my table, the second 
edition having come out at seven o’clock. It is the book of 
the time, a great event—the first book since Burke that 
goes to the bottom of the vital question; far above his 
party‘and his time. I sat up till after midnight, and this 
morning I] continued until 1 had read the whole, and almost 
every sheet bears my marginal glosses, destined for the 
Prince to whom I have sent the book with all despatch. 
Gladstone is the first man in England as to intellectual 
power, and he has heard higher tones than anyone else in 
this island. To-morrow is resting day—places taken to 
Bath. 


Zr. 47) RESIDENCE AT LLANOVER. 303 


The remainder of the year, after Bunsen returned 
from London, was spent actively and happily. He ap- 
plied himself vigorously to the State paper which he 
had been commissioned to write, intending to close 
and exhaust the subject of the Cologne disturbance, 
and untroubled by any prophetic consciousness that 
his labour would remain a dead letter, scarcely ac- 
knowledged, and possibly not even perused. Thus 
was he enabled to exert his native energy in the 
composition. Scarcely had this been finished, when 
he was desired to write a full opinion on the subject 
of the Law of Divorce. In the notes he observes :— 
‘This work cost much time and money (to procure 
books of authority for reference), but both were gladly 
expended ; and an essay, at least conscientious, was 
sent in. From that time to the present (the date, 
October 1839) not a line of acknowledgment has 
been received.’ 

From the moment of reunion with his family 
Bunsen carried out the intention, so touchingly ex- 
pressed in his letter of December 4th, of sharing as 
far as possible in the family day’s work; and the daily 
Scripture-reading, with explanation and comment 
from him, ushered in by one of the beloved Hymns, 
again became the morning rule, unavoidably fallen 
into disuse during the year of travelling and con- 
tinual change of abode. Thus, for the first. time since 
the departure from Rome, the home-feeling was in a 
degree revived at Llanover. 


304 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


To Dr. Arnold. 
Llanover: 4th Sunday in Advent, 1838. 


The reason why I have allowed your dear letter of the 9th 
November to remain without answer is to be found less in 
the wandering life I have led since the 14th of that month, 
than in the unwillingness of the spirit to say to you I could 
not come,—together with the impossibility of saying the 
contrary. Being now returned to this my second home, I 
have worked so hard at my State paper, that I believe I can 
to-day fix a date which I longed to announce sooner. If 
nothing unforeseen happens I shall set out from hence the 
4th January. ... 

Now, my dearest friend, those eight days which I hope to 
spend with you must be consecrated to the great object of 
our thoughts, the crisis of the age, if not exclusively, at 
least principally. I read in London Gladstone’s book, in 
the night and following morning of the day it was pub- 
lished. It appears to me the most important and dignified 
work which has been written on that side of the question 
since Burke’s ‘ Considerations.’ Gladstone is by far the first 
living intellectual power on that side. He has left his 
schoolmasters far behind him, but we must not wonder if 
he still walks in their trammels—his genius will soon free 
itself entirely—and fly towards heaven with its own wings. 
Ihave sent my copy with some hundred marginal notes 
and effusions of heart to the Crown Prince of Prussia. You 
will see my thoughts run in the same channel with Glad- 
stone's; his Church is my Church, that is, the Divine con- 
sciousness of the State,—a Church not profaned and defiled 
either by Popery or the unholy police regulations of the 
secular power. I have no doubt that the Church of Eng- 
land as she is and may be, according to her nature and 
history, is this consciousness for England. . .. 


Air. 47] LETTER TO PLATNER. 305 


Bunsen to Platner. 
(Tranelation. } Llanover : 24th December, 1838. 


On this day, the evening of which we have ever celebrated 
in friendly union, I must address a greeting to you over sea 
and land... . 

The spectacle of a great national existence, such as the 
English people alone have at this present time, is, in itself, 
grand and elevating ; and to me the more so, as in the same 
measure as I recognise and admire the high superiority of 
the nearly-allied existence which yet is not the actual life to 
which I belong, the more I take in the full consciousness of 
what is to us, as Germans, individual, and rejoice init. As 
to everything practical, high and low, we have only to place 
ourselves at the feet of other people, to contemplate and 
learn ; and whoever loves to learn, and understands how to 
learn, will be taught here by the wisdom that walks the 
streets, by the very air that he inhales. It is another thing 
with philosophy. The power of thought belongs to us, the 
Germans, in this day of the world’s history; I mean the 
philosophical consciousness of the life and of the reason of 
things divine and human in thought. There is, however, a 
general sense of the need of this here among the higher 
‘minds : Coleridge is looked upon among them as a prophet, 
and he has left sayings of high and deep intelligence upon 
these subjects, but single and unconnected. 

This condition of enquiry and of development in minds 
at the present moment is infinitely attractive to me, and J 
am thereby brought into a new line of connection with men, 
to whom I was already closely drawn by inclination and 
opinion. I have travelled in many ‘directions and sven 
many parts of England, and have passed over more than a 
thousand English miles, without ever sleeping a night any- 
where but under the roof of old friends or of their friends. 
In a few weeks I hope to see the idol and admiration of all 


VOL. I. x 


506 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1838 


parties in the nation, the Duke of Wellington, whose works 
(eleven thick volumes, containing nothing but his official 
correspondence) best reveal the greatness of the man... . 


To John Hilla, Esq. 


Llanover : 26th December, 1838. 

[ have sent Gladstone’s work with my postilla to the 
Crown Prince. It is—in its principal bearings—second 
only to Burke’s ‘Considerations’ in my opinion; still he 
walks sadly in the trammels of his Oxford friends in some 
points, e.g. the Apostolical Succession as identical with the 
continued series of Bishops, although there be a duly ordered 
presbyteral order, of which (as it is so easy to prove) the 
episcopate is merely a branch, apostolical but not scriptural, 
primitive but introduced into Church government paulatim 
(as St. Jerome says), in the progress of time, not at once. 
{ wonder Gladstone should not have the feeling of moving 
on an inclined plane, or that of sitting down among ruins, 
as if he were settled in a well-stored house. The reason of 
these defects in his book I ascribe to the want of a deeper 
philosophy. It is the deficiency of the method of handling 
ideas in this blessed island which makes it so difficult for 
your writers, political and ecclesiastical, to find the seeds 
of regeneration in your own old blessed institutions, which 
to preserve you must reconstruct. This operation requires 
that the eternal spit should be drawn out of the decaying 
or decayed letter, and Sir Humphrey Davy did not teach 
you that. How wonderful that separation is between real 
life and ideal thought! One ought to be the image and 
Abglanz of the other ; and yet we, Germans, find it so diffi- 
cult to construct reality with our ideal thoughts, and you 
English to see your own great reality in the light of that 
thought and to sublimate it (verkldren) into that spirit 
which it embodies, and which to incarnate is the only good 
reason for its existence. .. . 


JE. 47] VISIT TO PUSEY. 307 


The year 1839 began with the performance of some 
of the promises of visits which had been accumula- 
ting; but all could not be accomplished (and thus 
tempting invitations to Sandon and Castle Ashby 
were given up) within the few weeks which inter- 
vened before the meeting of Parliament, at which 
time Bunsen’s inclination to be in London, to watch 
the supremely-interesting scene with which his 
thoughts had ever been busied at a distance, coincided 
entirely with the kind wish of Mr. Pusey and Lady 
Emily to receive him there as their guest. On the 
4th January Bunsen and his wife with their eldest 
son set out towards Pusey in Berkshire, remaining by 
the way for one clear day with their old friend, Mr. 
W. Clifford, at Perristone in Herefordshire, and for 
another day at Gloucester with their esteemed rela- 
tives, the Bishop and Mrs. Monk. At Pusey they en- 
joyed the society of Mr. Pusey and Lady Emily for 
a fortnight, other friends being also there during a 
portion of the time. A glimpse of Oxford was also 
contrived for them, driving thither early, and return- 
ing at night. There they saw the rooms at Oriel 
inhabited by their eldest son, and rejoiced that their 
own flesh and blood should share in the advantages 
of a situation so ideally attractive to eye and mind 
as Oxford. 

At Pusey, Bunsen and his wife parted, she to return 
to Llanover, he to finish his view of Oxford, profiting 
by the kind invitations to remain there on his way 
to rejoin Mr. Pusey and Lady Emily in Grosvenor 
Square, in time for the opening of Parliament. 


x2 


308 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1839 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
Merton College, Oxford: Friday, 24th January, 1839. 


I am luxuriating in the delights of Oxford—but have 
never more felt how I crave your presence. There has never 
been enough said of this queen of all cities. I have been 
received with the most friendly kindness. The Vice-Chan- 
cellor paid me a visit at once, and invited me for Monday, 
when Sir Robert Inglis is to dine with him. The whole 
day have I gone about with the different Heads, Wardens, 
Provosts, of twenty or thirty Colleges, to see the wonders 
of this Jerusalem. In the evening I dined at Merton Hall, 
and platonised with Sewell. I feel quite at home among 
the teachers of youth, and it is with and among such that I 
desire to pass my life. The ‘Standard’ has printed my 
letter. The ‘Globe’ has given a second article on the sub- 
ject, in which is said, ‘The Archbishop of Cologne had 
broken his word.” QOne is not an Englishman for nothing! 
even as a Papist, a man takes account of the truth. 

All Souls’, Oxford, Monday.—This morning I have had 
two hours at breakfast with Newman. O! it 1s sad—he and 
his friends are truly intellectual people, but they have lost 
their ground—going exactly my way, but stopping short in 
the middle. It is too late. There has been an amicable 
interchange of ideas, and a Christian understanding. Yes- 
terday he preached a beautiful sermon. A new period of 
life begins for me—may God's blessing be upon it ! 

35, Grosvenor Square, Tuesday, four v’clock.—I have seen 
the opening of Parliament, and the Queen,—a really beau- 
tafal sight. I had from Bilow a ticket for the Royal 
gallery : for to-night I have Lord Haddington’s ticket for 
the Lords, and Pusey’s for the Commons. Lord H. came 
to take me thither five minutes after I was gone. But the 
most important is what Bilow told me this morning, when 
L asked him whether he would advise me to go by Ham- 
burg about the middle of March. ‘You do not seriously 


#1. 47) VISIT TO THE HOUSE OF COMMONS. 309, 


think of leaving us? that is out of the question: I shall 
write to the King that I cannot maintain the war which is 
now only beginning. You must stay here at least till June.’ 
I could only reply, that ‘my leave of absence ceased with 
the end of March, when I should be expected at Berlin ; be- 
sices which, I had no reason for staying, but many for 
going.’ If he will write, and if they will send me the 
King’s order to stay, tanto meglio—but I shall let that come 
of itself. 

The King of Bavaria has commanded the Protestant 
soldiers to fall down before the Host. Those at Regensburg 
have refused ; and the King allows the alternative of quit- 
ting the service or complying. A letter has been published 
(to Count Senfft, the Austrian Ambassador Extraurdinary 
in London for the Belgian question) signifying that the Pope 
will never allow Roman Catholics (those of Limburg and 
Luxemburg) to be transferred to Protestant Sovereigns. Of 
both these things due use will be made here. 

Lord Melbourne complained of me at Lord Holland’s, 
saying, ‘ Bunsen is setting up the country against us—his 
article in the ‘ Quarterly ’ 1s in everybody’s hands, and makes 
people mad.’ Biilow endeavoured to soothe, saying ‘ that J 
had not written it, that the article was good and true, and 
he, Melbourne, would ruin himself and colleagues by oppos- 
ing its cause.’ Melbourne thereupon softened, but added, 
‘All the young people are growing mad upon religion—W. 
C., too, who preaches that article.’ 

Wednesday.—My first Parliamentary night is past. .. . 
Pusey arrived by 7,—after we had dined he thought it was 
too late for the Lords,—so we went together to the Com- 
mons, when the usher gave me a place on the benches op- 
posite tothe Speaker, behind the Members. . . I wish you 
could form an idea of what I felt. I saw for the first time 
man, the member of a true Germanic State, in his highest, 
his proper place, defending the highest interests of human- 
ity with the wonderful power of speech—wrestling (as the 


310 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


entire vigorous man instinctively wishes), but with the arm 
of the Spirit, boldly grasping at, or tenaciously holding 
fast power, in the presence of his fellow-citizens, submitting 
to the public conscience the judgment of his cause and of 
his own uprightness. I saw before me the Empire of the 
world governed, and the rest of the world controlled and 
judged, by this assembly : I had the feeling that had I been 
born in England I would rather be dead than not sit among 
them and speak among them. I thought of my own coun- 
try, and was thankful that I could thank God for being a 
German, and being myself. But I felt also that we are all 
children on this field in comparison with the English: how 
much they, with their discipline of mind, body, and heart, 
can effect even with but moderate genius, and even with 
talent alone! I drank in every word from the lips of the 
speakers, even those I disliked. ... Sandon walked with 
me home : his house is at the opposite corner of the square. 
Pusey had only come in a quarter of an hour before, hav- 
ing been at another Club. To-day I am to go with him to 
an agricultural meeting at twelve; then to see Lord Har. 
rowby, and try again to behold the face of Lady Frances 
Sandon : also try to get a little better dressed, which Tom 
says is absolutely necessary—not forgetting new gloves (he 
adds) and a better hat! Besides, I must see Gladstone. 
Read his beautiful letter ; it will do you good to see what 
he says of Abeken. Goulburn had sung his praises already 
to Sandon in the same tone. . . . I feel like Antaus, the 
stronger for having touched the soil of my mother-land ; 
for such I call and feel it—doubly blessed in having two 
moral parents as well as two natural ones. 

Wednesday, 7th February.—I breakfasted to-day at the 
Aclands, with Mr. Wood, the working hand of the High 
Church Newman party—with an eagle-nose, fine and intel- 
lectual,—and Lord Courtenay. Then went to Gladstone 
with Tom, and was delighted with the man who is some 
day to govern England, if his book is not in his way. We 


Br. 47) VISIT TO GLADSTONE. oll 


are soon to meet under four eyes, which is the only way for 
becoming known to each other. . . . 

Friday, 9th February.— Here, my beloved, is the answer 
of the Ministry : most obliging, and tolerably satisfactory. 
They make a secret towards me of the blow the Pope has 
given—but repeat wisely my own words, that the State 
paper cannot well be printed unless in reference to some 
new fact or event. ... The Arnolds are here: he is to 
sit for his portrait to Phillips, from eleven to one, and | 
hope then to be with him. I am in all the misery of note- 
writing and visiting: my next week is entirely taken up. 
But I will go to Parliament, and I wll see ‘ King Lear ’— 
with Tom (!) and Pusey... . 

Monday, 11th February.—I continue my Diary. Saturday 
Ashley took me to a meeting whose teudency and import- 
ance made that day one of the most important of my life. 
He and Sandon and others desire a lay-union for extension 
of Church rights; in order to call upon all lay-churchmen 
of England to stand up for two points—one, that the people 
shal] have a regular education in parish and commercial 
schools: the second, that the schools shall be under the 
clergy, directed by a diocesan board, consisting of clergy 
and gentry, under the Bishop. Ashley communicated the 
pian to the Duke. ‘ You will defend the Church, and you 
are right,’ he observed ; ‘but mark one thing: no frontier is 
good for defence which is not also good for aggression : take 
vantage-ground.’ The hint was acted upon, as you will see 
from the ‘Times’ of to-day. [Bunsen goes on to describe 
several speeches : the important question mooted, the Jong 
discussions and their final result, belong to the history 
of England of that period. The merits of the case need not 
be dwelt upon here; only so much is inserted to show the 
intense interest taken by Bunsen in the subject.] . . . 

, . On Sunday I went at eleven with Gladstone to 
his parish church, after which we began our conference, 
closeted in his room. He said it had been his wish that 1] 


312 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


should be prevailed upon to write a book on the present 
state of the Church of Rome—if not of the whole Church. 
I answered, that the first of a series of letters with which his 
work had inspired me had exactly that title and import: - 
but I had rather begin with the second, the apostolical suc- 
cession. This led to my declaration of love to him for having 
consciously thrown a stumbling-block in his own way as a 
statesman, and excited censure, because he came conscien- 
tiously to those consequences for which he was so violently 
attacked: and that I admired him (with permission for say- 
ing 80), particularly as to the point on which I differed from 
him, At five minutes before three he stopped me, in order 
to introduce me to his father, who was pleased to hear from 
me what I was so happy to express to him about his admi- 
rable son. Then we went together to church, and heard a 
very good sermon from the Bishop of London: then re- 
turned, and again had a conversation alone together. . . . 

As to the meeting between Pusey and Arnold, the latter 
could only come after breakfast, when there was merely time 
for half-an-hour’s conversation ; but this made both know 
and like each other, as each expressed to me. 

I wish I could give you un adequate idea of the love and 
admiration I feel for Pusey: admiration for his extraordinary 
statesmanlike judgment, wherever he is, on the ground of 
his parliamentary life and business, in which he moves as a 
fish in the water; not less for his admirable temper and 
character: and love for his unspeakable goodness to me, as 
well as Lady Emily’s. It is as if the house, and the life in 
the house, was for me alone; all is calculated (without 
showing it) to make me enjoy and profit by my stay here. 
In particular, he collects all papers, pamphlets, articles, &., 
to make me acquainted with parliamentary business, and 
lead me into the perfect understanding of parties, persons, 
and interests. We want one thing alone—time; for I have 
little, and he »une. A hundred things we settle to do, and 
for scarcely one can we find leisure. Pusey says it will be 


AEr. 47) SPEECH AT THE BIBLE SOCIETY. 313 


better later, but it appears to me that more stops of the 
organ are every day drawn out, and the music ever more 
complicated. .. . 

Peel is not the genius, but the tactician and experienced 
captain of the Conservatives. He reduced the plan to this: 
‘You will give a Board an immense power to appoint, direct, 
found, &c., and you speak of liberty of education, accusing 
us of exclusiveness : now, I say, your system is an encroach- 
ment upon liberty: we will educate our children according 
to the doctrines of our Church, and so also those who 
willingly come to us; let all others do the same if they like; 
if they prefer to be governed by you, let them! We will not, 
and never will.’ ... 


In a letter of February 16 mention is made of an 
invitation to make a speech at the great meeting of 
the Bible Society, and of Bunsen’s unwillingness to 
promise, ‘in the doubt of being able to say what he 
would most desire to utter.’ The next day’s letter, 
however, announces the ‘maiden speech’ as having 
been made and approved. 


In the evening, at the great dinner they speechified me 
as a toast, and I had vowed to tell them a piece of my mind 
if they did so. So in returning thanks I told them on what 
great principles I presumed England ind Germany stood 
together as to science and natural philosy;:)y. 

1. The most unlimited liberty in the investigation of 
truth. (Cheers. ) 

2. The ground for this to be, not the despair or mistrust 
of unbelief, but sound belief. (Cheers.) 

3. That as historical science is blind without natural, so, 
vice versd, natural philosophy is blind without philosophy 
of the mind and historical knowledge. 

Then I commented upon the constituent parts of this 
assembly, in allusion to some remarkable individuals met 


314 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1839 


together, with illustrious members of both Houses of Parlia- 
ment, surrounded by men high in every branch of know- 
ledge, and all connected with the object of the Society. This 
led to the conclusion. . 

I omitted to write about my breakfast at Hallam’s. 
Pusey, Lord Mahon, Macaulay (who is the Demosthenes 
and Cicero of the Whigs), Empson, and Kemble, the Anglo- 
Saxon scholar. I sat between Hallam and Macaulay, and 
the conversation was very lively and instructive; after 
breakfast its course was turned to what is now in every- 
body’s mind—the Church. It was evident that Macaulay is 
writing the article in the ‘ Edinburgh ’ on Gladstone’s book ; 
he spoke with all the power of his mind (or rather esprit) 
on the subject. They wanted to draw me into the debate, 
but I slyly departed, not wishing to tell them all I knew on 
the matter, and desiring neither to give them arms against 
my friends, nor to withhold my opinion. However I may 
agree with the Whig party in single points, I disagree with 
them in the general view of things human and divine, and 
I know they are wrong in this, and will never go with me. 
They invited me to a session of the Central Education 
Society, presided over by Mr. Wyse (whose wife was a 
Bonaparte), but I declined. I will not let them know how 
far I think them right, as in the whole they will go the 
wrong way... the best are negative spirits. They are 
good for the purpose of keeping the Tories awake and 
within bounds; the worst is, they are in O’Connell’s hands. 
It has been made out that O’Connell cannot be eloquent 
unless greeted by cheers from the opposite side; and in 
Parliament he is now heard in deep silence, and becomes 
weary and tiresome... . 

Sunday morning.— Having prepared my second and third 
letters to Gladstone, I went to church with Pusey, after an 
interesting conversation at breakfast about Rothe’s magni- 
ficent development of the idea of the Church in St. Paul and 
on Schelling. After one o'clock we returned, and discussed 


r.47] THE DUKES FONDNESS FOR CHILDREN. 315 


the Chronology of St. Paul’s Epistles, and the author of the 
Acts of the Apostles till after six, when I lay down for 
twenty minutes to rest, so as to be fresh for Lansdowne 
House, whither I went with Hall at a quarter to seven. 
Lady Lansdowne most graciously claimed my acquaintance, 
and made me sit on her right hand, between her and Mr. 
Strangways, her brother—a singular person, very mono- 
syllab:c and cold at first, but who afterwards became very 
animated, and brought out a vast deal of information on 
architecture. The house is princely and tasteful. After 
dinner, conversation with Labouchere and with Lord L. on 
National Education (you know he is now Minister of Edu- 
cation, as President of the Board founded the other day). 
He said I must allow him one morning expressly to show 
his gallery of statues. Returned home twenty-five minutes 
before eleven, read the Epistle to Timothy in the Greek 
Testament, and went to bed. Rose at a quarter past six 
this morning (Monday) and wrote. Breakfasted with 
Pusey upon ham and speculative philosophy. I wish [ 
could give you an adequate idea of tho speculative talent 
and depth of Pusey. There is no Englishman I know who 
has studied this subject so much ; he takes in Schelling ax 
easily as Plato... . 

Wednesday, 27th February.—On Monday (25th) we dined 
at Baring’s with Lord and Lady Mahon (she is agrecable 
and handsome), Carlyle, Henry Taylor (the poet, and u 
clerk in the Colonial Office), Mr. Greville (Clerk of the 
Privy Council). The party was very pleasant. I made 
Lord Mahon tell me about his own works and studivs. 
Amongst uther things he mentioned that the Duke is so 
fond of children that he has always those of some relation 
for a month at a time in the country, and plays with them 
for hours at football, letting them plague him as much as 
they please, and is like a child himself among them. . . . 

Friday morning, 1st March.—I1 breakfasted with Glad- 
stone. Found Sir Stephen Glynne with him. We had a 


316 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1839 


long conversation. I never speak English half as easily as 
when hearing him speak and seeing him. Of course we had 
not done till twelve, but I arrived at home in time to be 
fetched by Lady Raffles and Ella to Crosby Hall, in Bishops- 
gate Street, to sce Mrs. Fry. 

I think, of all moments spent in London, the time spent 
here was the most impressive and striking to me. On the 
long journey thither I had a conversation with Lady Raf- 
fles, in which I felt again more than ever all that she 
is. ... [Many particulars are given of Crosby Hall, and 
the arrangement on this occasion of a bazaar of work and 
books to be sold for the bencfit of female prisoners and con- 
victs.] In the middle, near the front stall, stood a tall, 
large figure, about 60 years of age, with eyes small but of 
sweet and commanding expression—a striking appearance, 
not plain, but rather grand than handsome. This was Mrs. 
Fry, my favourite saint. She promised, when we had made 
our circuit, to find a place in which we could have conver- 
sation; and this she did, in a gallery overlooking that 
glorious Crosby Hall. When she stopped speaking, I said 
something expressive of my feeling as to her work of love, 
and further ventured to say, ‘I have for many years wished 
to convince myself why you could and should not devise 
measures fur making such great and blessed efforts as yours, 
for so grand an object, independent of yourself,—to form 
something that might survive you.’ ‘First read the book 
which thou hast bought, and then let me hear thec. J will 
see thee at my house, and I will take thee to Newgate with 
me.’ Then she said, ‘I will see thee off; but I must go to 
my stall: I have now rested.’. 

Monday morning, 4th March. _[The first passage of this 
letter is in German. !—My beloved! I must, on the morn- 
ing of this day address to you a few lines, to have a sort of 
dialogue, in spite of the cold distance between us. 

May God bless you abundantly, and by penetrating you 
more and more with the consciousness of His love, reward 


Er. 47) VISITS MRS. FRY. 317 


you for all the love with which you make your husband and 
children happy! May He more and more draw out of your 
heart the sting of care and of anxiety as to that future 
which belongs to Him; and give you strength and power 
to commend all things with a ‘cheerful heart into His 
father-hand! May He grant you joy and blessing in all that 
is most dear to vou, and suffer your children all to thrive 
and flourish! When I utter these wishes and prayers for 
you I have need to double the supplicatious for myself! .. . 
Sunday, 10th March.—I found a note to announce that 
Mrs. Fry would set out on her journey to the Continent 
next Wednesday, and wished first to hear from me what 
hints or letters I could give her. I therefore resolved after 
church to go to Upton. The two ladies approved my sug- 
gestion that they should drive me thither, and with me see 
Mrs. Fry, to whom Mrs. Ward had been introduced at Paris, 
receiving also an invitation to call upon her in England. 
. (Continued on Monday morning, seven o’clock.)-—At 

Mrs. Fry’ s door the servant protested that she could not 
see anybody; yet we were let in. Mrs. Fry came, much 
fagged, but friendly. I began my statement of a plan for 
her journey, quite different to that which had been made 
out for her; she took my hint instantly. I gave her a 
picture of country and men from Stuttgard to Elberfeld, 
and before I reached Heidelberg she said, ‘ That is settled, 
I must go that way.” Then I took courage, and told her 
of Koépf’s establishment for lost children at Berlin, of the 
deaconesses at Kaiserswerth, &c. ‘ But the most interest- 
ing subject,’ I said, ‘is the present state of the Moravian 
Brethren—a matter I have for fifteen years longed to 
discuss with you—they should cease to be a sect, and 
become an order.’ I cxplained and enlarged; she said, ‘I 
think that would just be the thing—Lut dost thou think it 
can be done?’ I replied, ‘I think it must, and if it be the 
intention of Him who rules His people, it can.’ After fur- 
ther reiteration in general terms she fell into meditation, 


318 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


and then said, ‘It would be a beautiful thing—a great 
blessing. I now feel what thy friend Lady Raffles told me ; 
I ought to have seen more of thee—thou shouldst have been 
under my roof; I should have gone to High Wood to meet 
thee. Iam sorry for what I have missed ; shall I ever see 
thee again ?’ Then, having put on her long black cloak to 
go to their meeting, she took my hands and said, ‘Farewell! 
may God be with thee in all thy ways, and prosper all thou 
doest.’ It was an impressive and solemn interview, and 
we all felt. the power of her character. I came home by six, 
dined with Pusey, and then read with him tilleleven. .. . 


Bunsen returned to his family and his mother-in- 
law on Wednesday in Passion Week, and passed a 
bright Easter-time with them at Llanover, of which 
nothing further can be said, than that he worked 
energetically at the project of a Law of Divorce de- 
manded of him at Berlin, as to which subject he 
had been collecting materials and opinions. Early in 
April he returned to the affectionate hospitality of Mr. 
Pusey and Lady Emily, now established in Hertford 
Street, instead of their previous abode (the house 
of Lady Lucy Pusey) in Grosvenor Square. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
23, Hertford Street: Tuesday, 16th April, 1839. 


So Iam again, my most beloved, in the midst of this last 
stage of my Wanderjahre. 

When I was just about stepping into a fly, at seven 
o'clock, at Birmingham, to go to the inn (no train proceed- 
ing till half-past eleven at night), Mr. Lee stood before me 
—summoning me to his hospitable abode ; he had arranged 
with Dr. Arnold to keep me there, as it was out of the 
question that I should reach Rugby that day. I found 
Lake of Balliol, and we had a delightful dinner and evening 


My. 47) VISITS DR. ARNOLD AT RUGBY. © 319 


there till one in the morning. I breakfasted with Mr. Loe at 
seven, and by nine had mounted the mail with Lake. At 
Rugby, Mrs. Arnold and some of her children met me 
on the meadow. It was truly a reception of friends. Dr. 
Arnold gave me the continuation of his work on the Church, 
which furnished ample materials for conversation. When 
discussing the University system, it struck me that on the 
20th, when the Cathedral question comes on, four stalls 
might be detached from different cathedrals to be attached 
to either of the two Universities. My idea was approved 
—and I plan preaching this to my friends, to try whether 
I can gain them over to it. Iwish that besides the two 
Divinity Professorships and the Hebrew Professorship (all 
well endowed) there should be two for the New Testament 
—one for Ecclesiastical History—-Greek and Latin Pro- 
fessorship, &. . . . 

Thursday morning, 18th April, quarter past siz.—My be- 
loved—among the many comforts you bestowed upon me 
during our last meeting, there was one, greater than you can 
be aware of,—-I mean your way of approving my resolution 
as to Berlin, and your expressions about Usedom’s communi- 
cations.* I did not express my feeling to you, because I 
thought it unreasonable to be pained by being told plainly 
what I knew before and foresaw, and faithless to indulge a 
sentiment of this nature. As to Berlin, I should have 
waived all my reluctance, had you urged me to go. How 
could I read that letter of the Crown Prince without feel- 
ing all my heart’s affection and gratitude flow towards him 
who wrote it ? 

The debate has not advanced an inch the second and third 
day—it will perhaps not end befure Friday. Grote and some 
others say openly, ‘ Shall we overturn the coach ?’ Grattan 
mae a theatrical but eloquent speech, and concluded well. 

* The faithful Usedom had written in low spirits as to Bunsen’s 


prospects, and represented him as given up by all his former friends, 
who took it ill of him not to force his way back to Berlin. 


320 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


On coming home I found a most cordial note from Sir 
Robert Peel, in answer to mine, inviting me again for 
Saturday, and saying ‘he would try to collect a few persons 
whom I might be pleased to meet.’ Pusey says he never 
knew of such cordiality on the part of Peel... . 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
Monday, 22nd April. 


What an invaluable letter you have sentme! Don’t think 
me cruel for longing for an entire letter from you !—it is the 
fixed point of the day and the centre of my thoughts. But 
T am not ungrateful for a mere line, and you have sent me 
so many, with all your occupations, and the languor you 
experience—least of all am I thankless for any utterance 
of love, however brief: the fact is, I cannot do without an 
uninterrupted continuance of the accustomed intercourse 
and conversation. ... 

Tuesday morning. —I have risen early to write to the 
Minister, and acknowledge the receipt of the papers, saying 
that I should require a leisure interval of several months 
for the work entrusted to me (a detailed opinion upon the 
several documents, and in general upon the conception and 
treatment of the matter). 

My dearest love, the way will be shown to us; but let us 
look back, and say whether it has not been hitherto one of 
continued mercy? .... I know that all will go on well, 
so as to enable me to do what is my call to perform, if Iam 
only not faithless. Pray for this, with me! .. . 

The lhterary world has not its proper position! No 
thought beyond things tangible. Buckland is persecuted 
by bigots for having asserted that among the fossils there 
may be a pre-Adamic species. ‘ How,’ say they, ‘is that not 
direct, open infidelity ? Did not death come into the world by 
Adam’s sin ?’ I suppose then that the lions shown to Adam 
were originally destined to roar throughout eternity! . . . 

Sir Robert Peel’s dinner-party was really a very gratify- 
ing event to me; it waa the conclusion of my attendance on 


ZEr. 47] AT SIR ROBERT PEEL’S. 321 


that very long debate, the subject of which was naturally 
the leading topic for him and his friends. But he said be- 
sides many good things ; for instance, that the present Eng. 
lish style was usually so conventional and so little classical 
that he believed in future times the bok chiefly to be quoted 
out of this period as classical, as a sample of ‘good racy 
Saxon,’ would be the collection of despatches of Field Mar- 
shal the Duke of Wellington ; they were written merely to 
utter in the simplest manner what he had to say, without 
being in any degree apprété. To-day I shall call on Lady 
Peel, and leave her my plan of reading for her daughter. I 
have nothing further to tell, but that I wrote twelve hours, 
then refreshed myself in the Green Park, and in the evening 
with dearest Pusey. He is a most wnique union of a prac- 
tical Englishman and an intellectual German, so that when 
he is speaking in one capacity, one might think he had lost 
sight of the other... . 

Thursday, 5th April, four o’clock.—. ... The extract from 
my essay is in the press; I went through it to-day with 
the publisher. I have been invited (through Lord Ashley) 
_ to speak at the meeting of the Church Missionary So- 

ciety, and to move a resolution. I am resolved to accept 
whatever offers in this field, and see whether I can he of use; 
and how far the strength of my pinions may sustain me. . . 

Saturday, 27th April.— . . . I shall write an opinion (as to 
the Divorce Law) to be comprised in not more than from 
four to six pages, but such as to be & witness against them. 
.. .. I want to make Abeken translate Gladstone’s book, 
and I would write the preface myself, at Fox How or dear 
Lianover, this summer ; I will write it as for my beloved 
Prince. Pusey was struck with three words that the Prince 
put together about the Church of England, her ‘ beneficent, 
limited sufficiency’ (ihr wohlthatiges, beschrinktes Geniigen). 
Nobody but himself could express with three words the whole 
state of things. Old Bader at Munich has written a book, 
‘On the Emancipation of Catholicism from Rome.’ 

VOL. I. x 


322 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


Wednesday, lst May, eight o’clock, evening.—I must write 
to say that I have got out of one of the most difficult tasks 
I perhaps have ever laid upon myself, with God’s help, much 
better than I had anticipated. You know I had written a 
apeech to be read on the Natale di Roma, on Rome and Nie- 
buhr’s history, with which Pusey was much satisfied. Now, 
having to treat the same subject another day, I intended to 
make the speech a complete exposition of the German sys- 
tem of historical criticism, and of that of Niebuhr in parti- 
cular, Monday I set again to writing, finishing all up to 
the conclusion, and yesterday I revised all and wrote the 
close—it was half-past nine when I had done. Then we 
breakfasted, and Pusey revised the second part—it was fif- 
teen minutes before one when we had finished. The lecture 
went off very well. . .. My treatise on Niebuhr’s Roman 
History, however, cuts deepest to the quick; Pusey says 
it is the best I have yet written. After the meeting, Sir 
Thomas Acland, Lord Northampton, and Lord Burghersh 
spoke, to express to me the thanks of the Assembly, in the 
name of all the English who had been in Rome. The speech 
of Sir Thomas moved me greatly ; he said, ‘ He not only gave 
us to enjoy the hospitality of one of the most agreeable 
houses we ever visited, but he also raised the tone of social 
life among our countrymen.’ At home I found Pusey re- 
joicing in my success. I dined with Lady Emily alone; 
afterwards I lay down and slept till nine, and then set my- 
self to write my speech for Exeter Hall; but presently found 
that one cannot force nature to generate and produce. .. So 
I went to bed, and rose (this morning) at five, wrote the 
speeeh—eight full pages—and copied it out; it was then 
eight o’clock, and I endeavoured to get it by heart, in which 
I found I could not succeed. I went to breakfast at Sir 
Thomas Acland’s, and arrived at Exeter Hall ten minutes 
past eleven ; however, they had reserved a seat for me next. 
to the Bishop of Winchester. .. . 

Some things were said, just bearing upon my two points : 


Er. 47] CHURCH AND JEWISH MISSIONS. 828 


distribution by means of colporteurs (that is, by hawkers 
competent to read and explain, if admitted, not merely book- 
hawkers), and having training-schools for such, by the Mo- 
ravian Brethren (as I should suggest); and the peculiar 
enmity of the Papal hierarchy to this Society. The Bishop 
of Winchester spoke well; Lord Glenelg made a beautiful 
speech; after him, an American clergyman, speaking so 
heartily as to delight the hearers infinitely. It was rather 
cruel, that they made me speak after their two best orators, 
but there was no choice. I know not how I managed, but 
I delivered a speech of about forty minutes with tolerable 
fluency, and I think I did say what I meant to tell them, in 
parts better, in parts less successful than the written speech: 
beginning and end almost literally as it had been written. 
I was very much cheered, and cordially thanked by the 
directors... . I have had a delightful letter from Usedom ; 
—The Capitol 18 to be retained: Buch’s proposal has been 
rejected. God bless you! Do write me a ketter! 

Friday morning, 3rd May.—I am in the greatest hurry, as 
this morning I have been lazy and slept till eight o’clock, 
and Ashley fetches me at half-past ten to the Jewish Mis- 
sionary Society, and then I have to fly likea whirlwind till 
dinner time. . . . I inclose you my speech, begging you to 
write it out, and retouch it as you think best, according 
to the sense. What is added is what I spoke eatempore, 
making the whole a response to the report read. At Lord 
Bexley’s dinner I had the delight of sitting next to Lord 
Glenelg; he was in very good spirits, and we two serious 
persons attracted general observation by laughing the 
greater part of the dinner time! . . 


The daily letters, and regular journal, failed not 
to rejoice the heart of the receiver, up to the date of 
her own arrival in London on the 15th May: but 
although there exist full details of the animated 
scenes which Bunsen so ardently enjoyed, — with. 

Y 2 


824 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1839 


enumeration of interesting names among his new 
acquaintances, of delightful social meetings, of ever- 
fresh occasions of collecting materials for contem- 
plation, and for drinking in knowledge of men and 
conditions at the fountain head,—further extracts 
would seem unnecessary. 

This period of residence in London was in many 
respects a climax in life to him. Never could a more 
decisive opportunity have been granted to a man for 
experiencing and actually measuring what his own 
personal place was in society, reckoned according to 
moral weight and intellectual ascendancy. He may 
be said to have been the object in England of the 
homage of a nation, eagerly and affectionately granted 
to himself alone, in the face of circumstances which 
might have proved adverse. He had arrived, to all 
appearance, a man of ruined prospects and broken 
fortunes: supposed to have no chance for the future 
but through the favour of his own Government, 
which he seemed to have forfeited: yet hailed and 
cherished as he was in the first instance by the 
friends who had learned to love and value him in 
Rome, their animated interest in him and their 
persevering kindness brought by degrees, from all 
sides, characters the most various as well as distin- 
guished, within the sphere of his influence. 

The name of Joukoffsky often occurs both in Bun- 
gen’s own and in other contemporary letters: he was 
in London in attendance on his illustrious pupil, then 
the heir apparent, now the Emperor of Russia, and 
Bunsen hailed the opportunity of renewing his inter- 
course with that man of worth and genius, and of 


Ex. 47) PRESENT AT THE OLD BAILEY SESSIONS. 3825 


most original and attaching individuality, whose ac- 
quaintance he had made six years before in Rome. 
A farewell letter from Joukoffsky contains the re- 
markable expression, — ‘ Conservez toujours votre 
cour d’enfant! Vous étes le premier enfant de cin- 
quante ans que j’ai jamais rencontré.” The obser- 
vation was strictly just—and that ‘heart of a child’ 
—warm, trustful, hopeful, was not reserved to feel 
the touch of age, and that of death had no power 
over it! 

A contemporary letter of the 17th May records 
that—‘ Joukoffsky fetched us at ten o’clock to view 
the pictures of Lord Francis Egerton.’ Thence 
Bunsen proceeded with Joukoffsky to witness a trial 
at the Old Bailey, after which he was invited to dine 
with the Sheriffs and Judges and intended to stay in 
case he should find among the party one of the Judges, 
from whom he had been told that he could procure 
much of the information wanted on the Law of 
Divorce. ‘The evening of the 19th May was spent 
with Mr. Pusey and Lady Emily, in the company of 
Joukoffsky : when a card came from Lord Palmerston, 
inviting Bunsen to his dinner-party on the Queen’s 
birthday. This Mr. Pusey decides must not be de- 
clined : and thus the time intended for Cambridge will 
be cut short. At Mr. and Mrs. Algernon Herbert’s, 
at Ickleworth, on the way thither, we are to dine and 
sleep on the 22nd, then see what can be seen of 
Cambridge on the 28rd, and return on the morning 
of the 24th to London.’ 

On the 5th June Bunsen had the high enjoyment 
of hearing the ‘ Messiah’ of Handel for the first time 


326 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


as a whole: he had heard single pieces out of it, but 
in his earlier days the entire composition was never 
performed in Germany. The authority of German 
composers, well acquainted with the style of execu- 
ting the music of Handel in both countries (for in- 
stance, Mendelssohn and Neukomm), may be quoted 
for the fact that only in England is the Handelian 
tradition in real existence; and there alone, in the 
execution of passages of whatever character, that 
degree of force and energy, and that powerful light 
and shade, is preserved, which prevents the grave and 
solemn from sinking into monotony, and the mourn- 
ful from degenerating into the puling and mourn- 
ing: communicating every emotion as it ought to 
emanate from the human mind—in fulness of ten- 
derness, of awe, of applause, or of heroic resolution, 
without being oppressed or overwhelmed, and with- 
out losing dignity. 

A visit to High Wood, near Hendon, gave an op- 
portunity for commenting upon ‘the dignity, the order, 
the quiet activity, the calm cheerfulness, with which 
Lady Raffles ruled the house, the day, the conver- 
sation ;? and the place and its neighbourhood were 
full of those memorials of the honoured dead, which 
served to enhance the natural beauty of the prospect 
and the interest attaching itself to the residence of 
Sir Stamford Raffles. The ground of High Wood 
must have been trodden by the footsteps and hallowed 
by the life and sorrows of Rachel Lady Russell, even 
though no family recollection exists to mark the spot 
which she inhabited, when she dated some of her 
letters from Totteridge, a village lying near. But the 


1.47] | HIGH WOOD AND LADY RAFFLES. 327 


beautiful portion of original wood, in which Lady 
Rafiles’s friends have enjoyed walking with her, con- 
tains within its precincts a chalybeate spring, walled 
round, and marked by an inscription as having been 
inclosed by Mistress Rachel Russell, at a date when the 
eldest daughter of Lord and Lady Russell must have 
been under twelve years old: yet there is nothing 
unreasonable in the supposition that the mother 
should have caused the work to be performed as a 
public benefit (the healing quality of the spring being 
in repute among the poor), and assign to it the name 
of her daughter instead of her own. Moreover, in 
that wood there is a spot evidently cleared of trees 
in a regular circle, from the centre of which (as the 
lower class of inhabitants, at the time when Sir 
Stamford Raffles made the purchase of the ground, 
still remembered) a previous proprietor, about the 
iniddle of the last century, had caused the loose stones 
to be removed which had formed a ‘monument to 
the memory of the gentleman who was beheaded.’ 
This piece of forest might have been a portion of 
Lady Russell’s own large Southumpton inheritance : 
as an original Russell property, it is gone out of 
remembrance. 


Contemporary letter from Oxford, at Oriel College, while 
staying with the Provust and Mrs. Hawkins. 
10th June. 
Yesterday, Wednesday, 12th, was the great day of con- 
ferring degrees. Breakfast at nine, then arrived the 
Arnolds from Rugby. Bunsen having put on his uniform 
with the doctor’s crimson robe over it, the Provost con- 
ducted the ladies to the theatre, and then returned to 


328 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


accompany the procession of Heads of Houses, &c., which 
however, entered not till after eleven ; but the intervening 
time lacked not variety of interest to those waiting, first 
from the contemplation of a building the most perfect of its 
kind, a piece of living harmony in forms and proportions, 
enveloping and showing with the greatest advantage of 
light and shade the various subdivisions of spectators. The 
whole scene recalled paintings of Tintoretto or Paolo 
Veronese, with the superior effect of reality of life and light. 
. . . As the Doctors and Heads of Houses marched in, they 
were differently greeted—some with applause and some with 
hisses ; but on the appearance of Dr. Arnold, applause long 
and loud took place, with but one solitary attempt, soon 
drowned, at disapprobation. Tlenthe Vice-Chancellor (Dr. 
Gilbert, since Bishop of Chichester), a man of fine person 
and grand deportment, spoke in Latin to announce the 
individuals whom the University designed to honour ; he 
was interrupted by applause at the names of Herschel and 
Bunsen, loudest and longest at that of Wordsworth ; and 
when he had finished, the appointed persons, with their 
staves of office, marched off to fetch the persons to be hon- 
oured, and returned with them in procession. . . . 

This morning (Thursday, 13th) Sir Thomas Acland 
knocked at the door before we were quite ready to be taken 
to New College Chapel; the morning beautiful, the chapel, 
chanting, organ, all exquisite ; in the Cloisters one would 
gladly have gazed longer, but we were bound to return to 
breakfast. Every walk in Oxford is an inexpressible 
treat—leisure to enjoy would have been all that could have 
been wished—and yet how much has been enjoyed without 
leisure ! ° 


On Saturday, 15th June, a sunny drive of twenty- 
nine miles brought Bunsen and his wife and son 


from the hospitality of the Provost of Oriel and 
the varied attractions and excitements of Oxford, to 


ZEt. 47) CHARACTER OF DR. ARNOLD. 329 


Claydon, and a reception of cordial kindness from 
Sir Harry and Lady Verney. On the 17th June the 
party (increased by George Bunsen from Pforta) 
arrived at Rugby, whence, on the 19th, they ac- 
companied the Arnold family to their beloved and 
beautiful abode of Fox How, near Ambleside, West- 
moreland, where the remaining days of the month 
were passed in a constant succession of social and 
intellectual enjoyment, heightened by the habitual 
view of scenery, such as was capable, unaided, to 
have filled and occupied mind and time, rendering 
that short period an inexhaustible store of matter 
for remembrance and thankful meditation. The 
grand character, the impressive, commanding nature 
of Dr. Arnold were then well taken in, fully esti- 
mated, and honoured to the full extent of its rights 
and claims; and, happily for those who contemplated 
this great and good man, they knew not that this 
was the last opportunity they had for seeing him in 
comfort. After this date, except for a short glimpse, 
Dr. Arnold was not again seen by Bunsen. Could 
but the manifold interest of the conversation of Dr. 
Arnold, the cheerfulness of the social meal-times, 
the animation of the exploring walks, the variety of 
information communicated by the mind which never 
slumbered and never seemed weary—the grasp of 
intellect for which no subject was too great or too 
insignificant, as long as the prime interests of hu- 
manity were affected by it—the ardent longing after 
yet more knowledge, yet more capaciousness of 
spiritual comprehension—could all this and more 
but have been described and commemorated, as the 


830 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


hand of Bunsen alone could have described the man 
whom he admired and honoured! But it was not to 
be! To the fortunate auditors, however, of much of 
this rare intercourse nothing was more striking than 
Dr. Arnold’s power of putting questions, and exult- 
ing in having an associate before whom he could lay 
any difficulty upon which his mind was at work. 
‘No one can guess,’ he said, ‘the amount of gratifi- 
cation in being enabled once again to learn, when 
one’s life’s business 18 perpetual teaching; when 
the occupation of communicating to the ignorant 
the little one knows more than they, leaves little 
or no leisure for labouring to diminish one’s own 
ignorance.’ 

By the beginning of July Bunsen was again in the 
temporary home of his family, with Mrs. Wadding- 
ton, in Monmouthshire, and received shortly after- 
wards the announcement of his appointment as Envoy 
Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary from the 
King of Prussia to the Swiss Republic. The close 
of Bunsen’s notes (on the transactions, the result of 
which had been his removal from Rome), after 
mention of the commission received to work out an 
Opinion on the Law of Divorce, and of his having, 
“after considerable expenditure of time and money, 
effected and sent in at last a conscientious treatise 
on the subject, on which no comment had been 
made, nor even its safe arrival announced ’—contains 
merely the communication of the fact, that ‘the 
pressing solicitations of the Crown Prince for an 
appointment for him, the persevering hatred of his 
opponents (preventing, it may be supposed, his being 


ZEr. 47] APPOINTED ENVOY TO SWISS REPUBLIC. Sal 
named for a place at Berlin), and the faithful good 
will of the King, had effected his nomination to the 
post in Switzerland.’ 

This was beyond comparison the best provision 
that could have been made for Bunsen, under all the 
circumstances of the case; and he certainly esti- 
mated justly the kindness thus evinced towards him, 
and affectionately responded to the well-judged de- 
cision of the King, even though there was pain in 
the consciousness of being excluded from Berlin— 
in the probably long delay in the renewal of personal 
intercourse with the Crown Prince, and in the ap- 
prehension (so soon verified) that he would not 
again meet the benevolent glance of the King. His 
short comment on the nature of the office bestowed 
upon him, in the Notes so often quoted, had best 
follow here :— 

‘The direction received for his conduct in Switzer- 
land was—to do nothing. Bunsen vowed secretly to 
follow up the line pointed out; and did, to the best 
of his knowledge, avoid the exertion of any political 
influence, without being indifferent to the condition 
of things in the country. The Pope’s Nuncio, in com- 
bination with Austria, endeavoured to stimulate the 
Catholic Cantons to enter a protest against Bunsen’s 
nomination ; but he soon succeeded in prevailing 
upon his Austrian colleague (Comte de Bombelles) 
not only to lay aside his apprehensions, but to cause 
the cessation of attacks upon him in the ultramontane 
periodicals. He neither wrote in his own defence in 
the papers, nor did he cause anything to be written 
for him. Meanwhile slumber fell upon the project 


332 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


of the law of marriage and divorce, and deep sleep 
upon the Roman relations! ’ 

Extracts from letters will show that the remaining 
months of his residence in England continued to be 
filled with vivid and varied interests. On the 17th 
July Bunsen was again at Oxford with Mr. Pusey, 
having been invited to witness a great meeting of 
the Agricultural Society. At this meeting, Bunsen 
in a letter to his wife states, that when the toast 
of ‘the Agricultural Society of England and Lord 
Spencer’ was proposed, with great cheering, Lord 
Spencer 


Returned thanks in a beautifully simple speech, saying 
his whole heart was in farming, and his happiness to live 
among the farmers of England. He then said, the Asso- 
ciation had much to learn from other countries, especially 
from Germany, France, and Belgium; and then he named 
me individually, proposing the health of the foreigners 
present. Mr. Webster not being there, and I having been 
named, I was obliged to make a speech: on rising, I found 
I had friends in the room, for I was much cheered. I then 
said, how much this union of all classes and occupations 
struck me—that there was the strength of England, the 
agricultural interests being the basis of the social system— 
there was the power of the empire, whose greatness must be 
dear to every friend of humanity. Now, you should have 
heard the burst of applause! The gentlemen and farmers 
began to communicate observations on agriculture—and did 
it amply ; the farmers speaking in most genuine language 
of their own, and with good John Bullhumour. One (from 
Sussex) challenged all England with a hundred oxen ; Lord 
Spencer accepted the challenge for next year, but insisted 
upon their being shown alongside. . . . 

Monday, 22nd July.—I took George on Friday to see 


£r. 47)" INTERVIEW WITH DR. LUSHINGTON. 333 


‘ Othello.’ Kean and Cooper played much better than I had 
expected. Saturday we saw St. Paul’s and Westminster 
Hall—my dear boy overjoyed to have seen each. Then we 
saw the ‘School for Scandal,’ an infinitely clever piece, 
masterly and classically performed. It reminds both of 
Tom Jones and of Hogarth; it bears the character of the 
eighteenth century—great depravity, great elegance and 
cleverness, and no genius. I think, after all, there is more 
genius in Moliére than in Sheridan, but much more acute- 
ness in Sheridan than in Moliere. Sunday morning I con- 
veyed George to the steamer—saw the Reverend Mr. Pea- 
cock of Cambridge, and recommended George to him. 
.... Then Lepsius and I went down to Greenwich, philo- 
sophising on language—the day beautiful; returned by 
eight to goto Chelsea to dine with Hamilton, where we met 
Millingen and Gerhard—returned by twelve on foot... . 


The remainder of July was spent in the same 
animated succession of interests and occupations, the 
day following the last date being marked by ‘a de- 
lightful conversation of two hours with Dr. Lushing- 
ton, whom I am to see again to-morrow, and who 
has in the meantime collected all books that I want 
still to know and read: our principles as to that 
question agree almost entirely.’ Early in August 
Bunsen returned to Llanover, where he had at last 
leisure to rest, after his fashion of resting—applying 
himself with all his power to the execution of the 
commission received. A cheering event to him and 
his family was the reunion with their sons Ernest 
and Charles, for the former of whom a leave of 
absence from his regiment was obtained for a few 
months, to accompany his parents into Switzerland, 
while the latter had been withdrawn altogether 


334 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


from the Blochmann Institution at Dresden, to carry 
on his preparation for the University under his 
father’s special superintendence. A visit from Lep- 
sius at Llanover again enhanced all other pleasures ; 
and at length, the day before the festival of the 
Crown Prince’s birthday, Bunsen departed from the 
maternal home, for some concluding days of business 
in London, accompanied by Lepsius and his two sons 
—forming a joyous company on the top of the stage- 
coach. 

The last day and night in England, 28th October, 
were passed by Bunsen and his wife at the Palace, 
Salisbury, with the Bishop and his bride (their be- 
loved Louisa Ker Seymer). 

Thus was the remarkable first period in England 
closed, in thankfulness and hope, with reviving 


prosperity. 


Bunsen to (Dr. Edward Stanley) Bishop of Norwich. 
Llanover: 19th August, 1839. 


. . . Lenclose to your Lordship the letters of introduction 
which your son has desired to receive from me, and which I 
am happy to give, in order to procure to some of my most 
honoured friends the pleasure of becoming acquainted with 
one of the most distinguished and amiable young English- 
men I know. I always rejoice when I see that intellec- 
tual union between the two nations increase, from which 
alone, according to my firm conviction, the world can hupe 
(humanly speaking) to get out of its political and spiritual 
confusion. 

Allow me to avail myself of this opportunity to submit 
to your kind consideration some thoughts respecting our 
opmmon friend Dr. Arnold. Having had the happiness of 


Er. 47] LETTER TO BISHOP STANLEY 885 


ing some weeks with him, partly in Rugby, partly in 
Westmoreland, I feel on the one side more than ever elevated 
and edified by that rare union of a clear intelligence, great 
acquirements, and deep piety, which must ever endear him 
to his friends, and command even the respect of his enemies; 
but also, on the other side, I cannot help being oppressed by 
the moral certainty those visits have given me, that he must 
sink at no remote period under the pressure of duties and 
occupations each of which requires separately the life and 
strength of a man strong in mind and body, to be carried 
through for long together. It is useless to say in what a 
manner he fills his place as headmaster of a school which 
he has made from a very indifferent one, if not superior to all 
others, certainly inferior to none in England. Besides (not 
to speak of his duties as the loving father of a numerous 
family, over whose education he constantly presides) he 
preaches every Sunday elaborate sermons, as the Christian 
public knows from the volumes which are printed. He is 
engaged in classical editions of the most important and 
difficult Greek authors ; the second edition of his Thucy- 
dides being almost ready for the press: and last, not least, 
he has begun a work on Roman History, in comparison 
with which Gibbon’s undertaking is a trifling task, it being 
in fact nothing less than the History of the World through 
eight centuries before, and as many after, Christ. This 
work I consider as the great task of his life, as one by which 
with few others the learning, feeling, and in general the 
intellectual and moral standard of England and English 
thought will once be fixed, when all the bustle of party 
shall have subsided, and many an usurped reputation be 
forgotten. 

Now it 18 my decided conviction that he will sink under 
the weight of the work, if not relieved from the duties of his 
present situation. If this is possible, it must be not only 
an object of the wishes of his friends, but worthy of the most 
earnest consideration of those who preside over the destinies 


336 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


of the English nation and empire. I am aware that it is 
impracticable to place him on the episcopal bench ; I add, 
that were it even practicable, I should as a friend not wish 
it for him. In the present state of the Church of England 
where the Chapters have no share in the immense charge 
of the administration of a diocese (as they ought to have 
according to the Canons, and as they actually have in the 
Roman Catholic Church), the Bishop who is conscientious 
has no time for writing historical works, scarcely for read- 
ing them. | 

But it strikes me from what I have been enabled to ob- 
serve in this country, that a Deanery is the very place for 
a man like Dr. Arnold. For in vain have I looked around 
to discover such a place for him, as would be his in Germany, 
and which I must consider as the real destination of so 
eminent a literary man. I mean a Professorship in one of 
the two Universities, giving an honourable position with a 
competency and an ‘opportunity, by holding lectures, of 
exercising those functions which are the most healthy for 
a literary hfe. There is no such place in England! A 
Deanery would ensure the means of providing for a nu- 
merous family ; it would be equally honourable to Govern- 
ment, to the country, the Church, and himself. It would, 
moreover, insure leisure to him, thus granting the truly 
enviable otium cum dignitate which is all that the mighty of 
this carth can give to a man of genius and character who 
honours his age. 

If such a Deanery could be found vacant near a good 
public Library, and, if possible, a literary establishment, it 
would be ideal. Durham would perhaps be the most de- 
sirable, not only because it is ‘the golden Deanery,’ but 
because it would give an opportunity of usefulness to a 
young institution, which still wants the sanction of a great 
literary name; and also become a compensation for the loas 
of that communication with the rising generation, in which 
Dr. Arnold so much delights at Rugby. 


1.47) LETTER TO THE BISHOP OF NORWICH. 337 


Here, my dear Lord Bishop, you have the whole current 
of my thoughts. I knew I might allow them free course in 
addressing you, the more so, as I never have had any con- 
versation, or other communication, on the subject with Dr. 
Arnold himself. But I am of opinion that if such a situa- 
tion could be offered him, he would accept it: and I know 
that the success of his literary career and his very life are 
incompatible with his remaining many years more at Rugby. 
This belief and this conviction seemed to make it almost a 
duty tome to communicate my ideas on that subject to your 
Lordship. As to the theological prejudices against him, 
they are visibly dying away ;—how unjustly he has been 
dealt with on this score also, his six letters to the editor of 
the Hertford paper, on Chartism and the remedy against it, 
would prove even to his opponents. 


VOL. I. Zz 


338 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


CHAPTER IX. 


RESIDENCE IN SWITZERLAND. 


THE HUBEL, NEAR BERNE—RECEPTION BY THE DIET—SWI8S POLITICS— 
LETTERS TO ARMNOLD-——BEUGGEN—THE CYMREIGYDDION. 


THE period occupied by the residence of Bunsen with 
his family at the Hubel, near Berne, is strongly dis- 
tinguished from the previous and subsequent condi- 
tions of their existence. It was attended by circum- 
stances of peculiar comfort and benefit to all, and was 
looked back upon with affectionate thankfulness, even 
in the case of Bunsen himself, to whose taste and 
wishes it was by no means consonant. He was truly 
grateful to the kindness of the King, Frederick 
Wiham III., for putting a term to his ambiguous 
condition, by appointing him Envoy to the Swiss 
Confederation, in July 1839: but this, in itself so 
desirable a position and provision, was incompatible 
with his sanguine hopes of employment at home; 
for, strongly as events had spoken, they had not yet 
brought conviction to his mind, that he was a 
person out of the question at Berlin, and that 
Berlin was a place out of the question, as a sphere 
of action, for him. Besides, he had formed an 
estimate, which subsequent experience justified, that 
to follow up the internal transactions of the Swiss 
Confederacy demanded the same amount of study 


FET. 48] HIS DEPARTURE FOR SWITZERLAND. | 3389 


and attention as the public business of any one of the 
governing Powers of Europe; and that reports the 
most carefully digested, and views and opinions the 
most deliberately formed, failed to command the 
interest of the Berlin Cabinet. Deeply painful as 
had been the transactions between Rome and Berlin, 
they were concerned with the highest interests of 
humanity; and Bunsen felt less the pain of a life- 
enduring personal wound, than the privilege and 
satisfaction of having laboured in matters of evident 
European importance. Unwelcome to him, however, 
as was the settlement in Switzerland in itself, yet the 
journey thither was gladly undertaken, as a return to 
home life ; for the months spent in England, although 
full of causes of gratitude, and always looked back 
upon with deep affection to individuals and localities, 
had not the recommendation of having furnished an 
actual, independent, family-existence to the wan- 
derers, such as they found at the delightfully situated 
Hubel, a solitary country-house, standing on its 
own hill, looking across richly wooded and cultivated 
tracts of country towards the entire group of the 
summits of the Bernese Oberland in their eternal 
snow. 

Bunsen and his family left the beloved shore of 
England at Southampton, and crossed over to Havre 
on October 29, 1839, on the way to Paris, resting one 
day at Rouen, where the architecture and situation 
of the town, and particularly of the noble cathedral 
and the faultless church of St. Quen, made so deep an 
impression upon him, that he often afterwards urged 


upon travellers to make a point of seeing Rouen, as 
22 


a Cre 
34, | MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


‘the Niirnberg of France,’ and, with the exception of 
that town, unequalled in picturesque effect. 

A few lines transcribed from a letter of Bunsen’s to 
his mother-in-law, dated ‘ At the Hubel, December 1, 
1839,’ express his feelings in looking back upon the 
remarkable period passed in England. 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 


. .. If poor words had been necessary to make you 
aware of what I feel when thinking of the thirteen months 
passed with you, or near you, | could not have reached 
Paris without having written—but I am sure they are not 
required. I could not say a word when we parted, for it 
would have been choked by emotion, and have called forth 
emotion. Whatdo 1] not owe to you! and still I may say I 
am thankful for owing so much to you—to her whom my 
heart owns as a second,a true mother. Your kindness, and 
the happiness with which you surrounded me, rendered the 
memorable period which has carried me over the great crisis 
of my life one of the happiest I can remember—happy, from 
the affection I enjoyed and felt—happy from the enlivening 
impressions I received—happy from the strength and spirit 
I felt to undertake and to perform my work! 

. . . This house is a God-send—meeting all our wants. 
The view of the Alps glorious, and the weather most mer- 
cifully mild. . . . Things are improving in Switzerland ; I 
find I had judged the events of Ziirich nghtly—it is an ad- 
mirable and almost unparalleled popular movement. Be- 
sides, without it I might have had to fight the Pope again 
here. He had stirred up the Catholic population to pro- 
test against my nomination, and they had already persuaded 
some Protestant deputies to join them, when the scene and 
ruling influence were changed, by the whole Jacobin-athe- 
istic set of Ziirich being routed by the 20,000 psalm-sing- 
ing peasants. I have been received with great distinction, 


Ex. 48] HIS RESIDENCE AT THE HUBEL. 343 


and have reason to anticipate the same at Ziirich, where 
I am to make my solemn entry and speech, the seat 
of government being at the present moment there. . .. 
The contrast in passing from the Catholic Jura to Protes- 
tant Neufchitel was great: it was Sunday—on the French 
side the roads (in a horrible condition) were crowded with 
wheeled conveyances for enormous trees, perhaps fifty or 
sixty in number, accompanied by loud swearing and quar- 
relling drivers; on the side of Switzerland, in the same 
tract of country (a brook forming the boundary), the same 
race to the eye, the same language to the ear, but all quiet- 
ness, peace, mildness, and cleanliness ; bells were ringing, 
and the population going to church. How thankful I felt 
that we had to wait at the post station, because the postil- 
hons were gone to church! I was ashuimed of our travel- 
ling, and yet so glad of the visible proof of being in a really 
free and Christian country. 


In this beautiful land of strangers (in the sense of 
absence of personal acquaintances) Bunsen found one 
esteemed associate of his Gottingen years in Pro- 
fessor Ziegler, a native and resident of Berne, since 
deceased ; and at Christmas, as soon as possible after 
the settlement at the Hubel, Professor Gelzer, of 
Basle, was the first of many guests received under his 
roof. With what is called general society Bunsen 
and his family had little communication, and yet they 
never were in want of such a degree of social inter- 
course a8 was suited to their own habits and occu- 
pations. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


[Translation.] Zirich : 10th December, 1839. 


. . . Our first day’s easy journey brought us to Aaran at 
tive o’clock, where, the Session of the Great Council having 


 L<” 
ofy/ ed we MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1839 


begun, we obtained with difficulty a narrow resting-place ; 
and the same unanticipated political activity deprived me 
of the satisfaction of secing the celebrated Zschokke, who 
was occupied in a committee and offered to come and see 
me at eight o’clock the next morning, whereas I was bound 
to be seated in the carriage by half-past five. 

The sun having succeeded in penetrating the fog, we saw 
the finely-situated Baden, and entered Ziirich in the finest 
weather, where at the entrance, which I remember only 
surrounded by shabby receptacles, now stands a fine 
post-office and an hotel opposite, whence, after we had 
satisfied our hunger, Thile sallied forth to announce to the 
‘Chancellor of State’ my arrival, and communicate the 
transcript of the King’s letter. At five o’clock came the 
Chancellor and Secretary of State to make their visit, and 
announce the desire of the Council to bid me welcome to- 
morrow, the President proposing Thursday at twelve for the 
audience, and inviting me to dinner at three o'clock. The 
Guard of Honour is appointed to grace the front of the 
hotel for two days, according to custom; in short, all is 
arranged in high ceremony, the personages at the same time 
kind in manner... . 

Thursday, 12th December.—Yesterday, first of all I made 
the sketch of my speech, the spirit moving me to issue forth 
from the accustomed hollow phraseology ; and address to 
the Confederates afew words, speaking the exact truth... . 
I should have preferred to have left the paper, in order 
to speak freely what the moment suggested, but I con- 
sidered it my duty to impress the written words as dis- 
tinctly as I could on my memory, as the affair was not one 
of my own. Besides which, an inspiriting assembly of 
hearers is essential to unpremeditated speaking and to 
fluency of speech altogether: in addressing a small number 
of unknown persons one is at a disadvantage. Meanwhile 
the brightest sunshine spread over the hills, and the good 
population of Zurich crowded the streets and open places. 


Ex. 48] ADVICE TO ONE OF HIS SONS. 343 


Battalions of troops, roll of drums, waving of hats—no 
point of ceremony was left out... . After my address I 
received a well-expressed reply from the President, full of 
veneration towards the King and of good-will towards me, 
the close of which was: ‘Thus I bid your Excellency be 
welcome in the name of the Government of the Confederacy, 
and of the entire Confederation.’ I hasten to have a look 
at the lake in the sunshine. 


Bunsen to One of his Sons, in Schulpforte. 
{ Translation. } The Hubel, near Berne: Christmas, 18389. 


Read not too much of modern writers: Schiller’s drama- 
tic and lyric poctry and Gothe’s earlier verse, and Shake- 
speare—especially the historical pieces—are all good food ; 
but the ancients are, and remain, the main thing. Beware 
of losing sight of the historical. But, above all, seck to be 
firm in grammar ; otherwise, for the rest of your life, you 
will feel the want of a strong foundation. Practise the 
construction of German with an enquiring spirit; for in 
the present irruption of barbarism into the style of writing 
(approaching to the corrupt German of the pageant period 
of Louis XIV.) it is more than ever needful to be sure of 
one’s means of defence. Be not over-careful about forming a 
style: the style is the man himself: whoever thinks clearly, 
and seizes a subject honestly, will write well: all else is 
wind and emptiness. 


Bunsen to Dr, Arnold, 
The Hubel, Borne: 25th January, 1840. 

Thus I am at last established, if it please God, for good, 
at the foot of the Alps, my dearest friend, and my pen goes 
in the direction which my heart long since had given it. 
After having laid the basis of my social, political, and 
domestic life, I can begin to resume my own private life, 
with my books here, and my friends abroad. 

.. . Here are twenty-five political bodies—all sovereign 


344 " MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


—and an Union besides, revolutionising and revolutionised 
since 1798, and particularly since 1830. My predecessor 
had left me the legacy of two fresh revolutions (Ziirich and 
Wallis), and Tessin welcomed me to the third. My prede- 
cessor was gone: I knew less of the recent events of the 
Alps than of the ancient ones on the Nile: fifteen news- 
papers came in upon me daily, to inform me how much I 
had need to know before I could simply understand them. 
Disdaining to gain information by sacrificing existence to 
the nothingness of diplomatic life, I set my mind upon in- 
structing myself in the way that we philologers are forced 
to examine into ages past, and I think I have succeeded. At 
Ziirich I found friends in politics and religion, and true 
Germans, among the beads of the new Government, which 
has been the effect of one of the noblest and purest of 
popular movements. They enabled me even to learn things, 
of which my colleagues were not informed; and I think 
I am now so much at home that my political studies come 
in only for their regular share in the six days’ work, which 
ig allright. ... 

How I feel with the Swiss peasant, who inscribed on his 
house :— 


Bewahr diess Haus, Sanct Floman: 


Zind andre an, lass dieses stahn! 


If there must be revolutions their patron saint might 
kindle them elsewhere (of course our two countries ex- 
cepted). J have no time for them, and Switzerland has 
had her full share of that blessing—so much so, that the 
idea of government and law is almost vanished, and must 
be recreated, which is not easy... . 

Let us write to each other regularly, once a month, a la 
fortune du pot—whatever subject first offers itself. I cannot 
live without regular communications to and from yon. 


Zr. 48) RELIGIOUS COUNSEL TO ONE OF HIS SONS. 345 


Bunsen to One of his Sons. 
[ Translation. } The Hubel, near Berne : 23rd March, 1840. 


.... You are approaching a solemn day, the most 
serious and the holiest as yet of your life. The ancients 
expressed well the fact, in saying that everyone is in his 
Baptism inscribed as the combatant of Christ, but in his 
Confirmation receives the arms with which he is to contend 
under the banner of Christ. No one has a right to the 
excuse, that the duties are unknown, or the sacredness of 
the engagement, not considered. Your paternal friend, 
the honoured and excellent Professor Jacobi, gave you 
an excellent pattern in the hfe of Dr. Heim, whom I 
have often seen at Berlin. But first and last I would have 
you look up to the model above all others, Jesus Christ : 
think of His sufferings for us sinners ; and grieve not His 
spirit by unfaithfulness. There is nothing that can sup- 
port the fiery trial of temptation and of suffering, which is 
before you, but the belief in the revelation of God as Love, 
in the person of Jesus Christ. Let not mockery and scof- 
fers lead you into doubt—they are judged: and be not 
chilled by the coldness of those around you, but rather pray 
that by the sincerity of your striving after right, and the 
perseverance of love and patience, you may be found worthy 
to make the way to the Saviour easier to them. 

Friends you will find on the way of life, if you make them 
an object of prayer. There is no gift on earth more pre- 
cious than faithful teachers and friends. 


Bunsen to Dr. Arnold, 
The Hubel: 22nd April, 1840. 


... They have made in Switzerland 4» new revolution, 
or rather accomplished one begun last year, in the Valais , 
this has given me more to do (that is, to write to Berlin) 
than usual. When in the Holy Week I had despatched 
everything, I tock up the work begun at dear Fox How, my 


346 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


Order for Scripture reading, or Annus Dei, to try whether 
1 could this time succeed in getting through the prophets— 
viz.: bringing each vision to its rfht chronological and 
historical place; it has been five t@nes a Sisyphus-labour 
with Isaiah; this time I hope I hav@ succeeded. .. . 

We enjoy our existence here as te happiest we ever had, 
with thankfulness, and in the mo@t glorious weather and 
congenial air ; we are busy all daygand read in the evening 
with the children. I can do more fere in a day than in the 
life of Rome in a week. The Muses require leisure and a 
free mind, and the search after knowledge requires the whole 
man, at least for the time. The material to be conquered 
is immense, and still one begins only to live after having 
got through it. How my heart and sou! would rejoice if I 
ever saw you in a situation such as mine, I mean of otium 
doctum! Believe me, my dear friend, I am no prophet, but 
my feeling has rarely been wrong in such matters. You can 
dv impossible things, such as publishing the second volume 
of your ‘ Roman History’ in this year, when it was scarcely 
begun last year—a fact that is, indeed, as surprising as 
joyful to me; but you will never accomplish the whole work 
as you so nobly have conceived it, in all its extent, and as a 
aTijua é¢ aet, unless you soon find a place of leisure. Your 
work must be complete and must be a sterling work for all 
centuries ; but you will have for it only the ordinary period 
of strength allotted to other mortals. I feel as sure as of my 
existence that you will sink under it, if you overstrain and 
divide your energies, as you must do now, for a longer 
period, Forgive the boldness of a frend '—but what can I 
give you but the conviction of my soul? ... 


To the Same. 
The Hubel: 3rd June, 1840. 
... . The Crown Prince has sent mea letter of twenty- 
eight closely written quarto pages, containing his whole 
creed and system of government as to the Church. My two 


21. 48} DEATH OF FREDERICK WILLIAM III. 347 


vols. (MS.) have excited great sensation ; he caused them to 
be read to him in a committee, of which three persons were 
in many points opposed to my views: this made him study 
the matter thoroughly, and moved him to write that letter, 

. . . Lam convinced the King ought not to employ me 
as Minister, at least not of Ecclesiastical Affairs. The 
Ministry of Public Instruction, if separated, 1 should feel 
courage to accept, and it need not kill me. There, I under- 
stand and respect the machinery which exists ; which is not 
the case with the Church; and with my feeling in the latter 
instance one may be a prophet, but one is not fit to be a 
practical statesman. What 1 should hike best of all would 
be to be President of a Royal Commission for Church and 
Public Instruction, without having to undertake the ad- 
ministration itself... . 

The decease of Frederick William ITI., an event 
significant in its bearings on all sides, and peculiarly 
on the life of Bunsen, shall be rather recorded here 
in words written at the time, in a letter which has 
been preserved, than by any reminiscence. 


13th June, 1840. 

. For a whole week we have been expecting the 
close of a life, important to us among so many others :—and 
Bunsen had been overcome since Tuesday Jast by emotions 
very different from those the world in general would attri- 
bute to him. It was on that day that the account came of 
that convulsion of the chest, which nobody supposed the 
King could have outlived as lung as has really been the 
case : then we felt, that however death may be anticipated, 
nothing can prepare one for it—and the consciousness that 
the eye is closed which beamed with se much kindness— 
the hand is cold from which so many benefits have been 
received—and the spirit fled which operated much good, 
and willed nothing but good, during the long course of 
union with the body—fell with force unchecked by uncer- 


348 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


tainty. Bunsen has felt that a period of his own lie is 
closed; and whatever crisis calls upon us to be aware that 
the past has quite passed away, is in itself awful, even with- 
out concomitant circumstances, in the present case weighty 
indeed. He has not only lost his beneficent Sovereign, his 
paternal benefactor—but also the Crown Prince, whose 
friendship equalised the difference of rank and condition. 
Whatever the present King may be to him must in the 
nature of things be something different to what he has been. 
The value is thus, if possible, increased of that wonderful 
letter, or rather volume, reccived so few days since: to 
various parts of which Bunsen had been writing a succes- 
sion of letters in reply, up to the day which marked the 
necessity of a close. . . . From what he knows of the 
present King’s character, he believes that he will make no 
violent changes at first, but begin his own government with 
his father’s Ministers. 


The ‘letter, or rather volume,’ here referred to had 
been mentioned, as follows, in a letter dated May 30, 
1840. 


At last M. de Thile is returned, having been detained at 
Berlin, from whence it seems invariably difficult to get 
Away as soon as intended. He has brought to Bunsen an 
unique letter from the Crown Prince—endorsed ‘A long 
letter and a short one, for Friend Bunsen ’—containing 
twenty thickly-wrtten pages, and put into a leather case 
with a peculiar lock—which the Prince songht out in the 
presence of Thile, by way of envelope, and which he charged 
him to tell Bunsen was intended for him as well as the 
letter. This letter is a commentary on the voluminous 
communication of Bunsen at the end of last year—inimitably 
clever, and satisfactory beyond anticipation, as showing the 
Prince's satisfaction: his deviations and modifications ap- 
parently constituting no essential difference of opinion, and 

the expression of general convictions and views being such 


Er. 45] SYMPATHY BETWEEN BUNSEN AND THE KING. 349 


as do one’s heart good—to say nothing of the exquisite 
kindness of the whole. 


This passage is transcribed as containing a faithful 
record of Bunsen’s own feelings and opinion at the 
time equally with the preceding: but an observation 
shall not be withheld which the writer of these lines 
has had much opportunity of making, on the subject 
of the ‘satisfaction’ expressed, and the coincidence 
of views and convictions believed in, and often in- 
sisted upon, in the course of that remarkable and volu- 
minous epistolary correspondence which subsisted 
so many years, and which is no doubt all safely pre- 
served in one or other of the Archives at Berlin. At 
some future time the whole of it will prove an object 
of deep interest, whenever some future historian 
shall be permitted to inspect it. There were many 
points of similarity, as well as of sympathy, in the 
minds of the royal writer and of him upon whom 
he bestowed the honour of his confidence and of his 
correspondence. Each possessed the power of mani- 
fold development and expansion of the matter which 
occupied thought and feeling. With King Frederick 
William IV. the deep-seated root of opinion would 
be continually growing and branching out into an 
almost boundless luxuriance of vegetation. Then 
Bunsen would seize upon some portion of this growth 
and hold it fast, and, with his rare gift of combina- 
tion, he would argue and demonstrate its connection, 
whether seeming or real, with his own ‘ heart of oak.’ 
He endeavoured to prove, that taking for granted 
the positions so brilliantly stated and so eloquently 
elucidated, the results would be so and so, varying 


35U MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


greatly from the deductions of the royal writer, who 
late, if ever, gave up his belief in the possibility of 
persuading Bunsen to adopt views as his own, or to 
co-operate in measures which he himself best knew 
not to be those advocated by Bunsen. It seems due 
to the cause of truth, that the only surviving witness 
to the spirit and tenour of letters to which reference 
is impossible should give the testimony of her belief, 
that although the receiver was under deception, yet 
he alone was to be blamed. The sanguine nature of 
Bunsen bore him on for years over the difficulty of 
disguising from himself the fact, that from the 
opinions of the King such results could never pro- 
ceed as he had calculated upon, and as he considered 
essential to the well-being of Church and State. But 
this present date of June 1840 is far antecedent to 
the period when ‘hopes too fondly nursed were 
rudely cross’d:’—and how indistinctly as yet the 
purposes of the new Sovereign were discerned is 
shown in the remarkable circumstance of Bunsen’s 
being the medium of recommending to Royal notice 
and to promotion his future opponent, Professor 
Stahl. The opinion formed by Bunsen of the capa- 
bilities of Stahl, as a writer, to carry on active 
opposition to the current of infidel writings and 
lectures, at that time exercising such general and 
perceptible influence, must have induced the invita- 
tion to the latter, in the summer of 1840, to give 
him an opportunity of forming his personal acquaint- 
ance by a visit at the Hubel. A full report of the 
impression made by Stahl, during the two or three 
days of this visit, will of course exist in the collection 


Er. 48) PROFESSOR STAHL. 351 


of letters addressed to Frederick William IV.—but 
no notice of it has been found among Bunsen’s own 
papers. The result, however, was, that Stahl was 
recommended to the King, who from that time 
ceased not to look upon him with favour, and in 
time advanced him to that post of honour and power, 
as member of the supreme council on ecclesiastical 
matters, in which he so perseveringly laboured for 
the destruction of the union between the Lutherans 
and the Reformed Church, which Frederick William 
III. had hoped to secure upon sure and lasting foun- 
dations. 

To those most nearly connected with Bunsen, and 
most devoted in attachment to his memory, the ex- 
planation of the cause of this, one of the greatest 
and most widely operating mistakes of his life, would 
be matter of more interest and curiosity, than it is 
likely to be to the public at large:—but that he, the 
earnest advocate of the Union,—who, far as he was 
from being satisfied with the Church-regulations of 
the late Government, yet considered the Union as 
the first step in advance in the right direction— 
should have proved to be the means of bringing 
forward a strenuous opponent to their free and 
popular development, was indeed a singular fatality. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation. } Basle: Tuesday, 30th June, 1840. 

. . . Here do I ait, in dear, quiet Basle, with the hills 
of the beloved German fatherland before me. . . . At 
Solothurn, embosomed in verdure, under the grand rock- 
wall of the Jura, where we changed horses, the great 
Ursula Church, above a high flight of steps, was before us: 


3u2 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1840 


I had been told it was beautiful, but found a building after 
the pattern of S. Ignazio and the other Jesuit churches. 
Behind the church we entered a narrow defile, formed by 
primesval forces in the disruption of the Jura-chain, remind- 
ing me of the clift of the Adige-valley: to the narrowest 
part the name of Kluson (the closing) is given in each 
place. Then at Liestal, the fine valley of the Rhine opens 
upon us, with German hills on the further side. The air 
was delicious: at six o'clock we alighted at the Stork— 
found Inspector Hofmann waiting to invite me, first to 
come to the place of general greeting, and secondly to receive 
the hospitality of Frau Merian, who, with her late husband, 
has formed a principal support of the Mission-house. . . . I 
accompanied my honoured and gifted guide to the Antistes 
Burkhardt, with whom I found assembled about eighty 
persons, from France, Gormany, and Switzerland, seated in 
a circle, of whom he enquired in succession, beginning with 
the nearest, first the name, and then the matter, as to which 
%& communication would be asked or offered. Valette gave 
a message of friendly greeting from the Société Evangélique, 
and thanks for aid from Christians of Southern Italy— 
speaking German fluently, When my turn came, the 
Antistes named and welcomed me, and I replied shortly 
that I had long wished to see this establishment, and was 
glad to be enabled to return thanks in my own name, and 
that of many Protestant Christians in Rome, for the fraternal 
sympathy evinced at Basle—the gift of Testaments in 1830, 
and contributions to the hospital. The Antistes replied— 
‘ We have all long wished to behold you face to face ; you 
have laid a foundation of life for the Gospel Church, which 
will not perish ; our hearts and our prayers have been with 
you throughout the trials of the latter years, and will con- 
tinue to follow you. May the Lord bless you in all your 
undertakings!’ You wiil believe that I was much affected, 
for these were not empty phrases... . 


Ps 


Hx. 48) THE MISSIONARY MEETING AT BASLE. dod 


To the Same. | 
(Translation. ] The Hotel Baur, Ziirich: 5th July, 1840. 


.... 1 proceed with renewed powers, after a night's 
rest, to the continuation of my account. As I told you, the 
first day of the festival at Basle is dedicated to Israel. 
Strangers and natives are seen flocking in together, but 
the larger portion of the inhabitants of the town keep 
back (from meetings with a religious object), considering 
the thing solely as a party-movement—and thus it is with 
German Christianity among the people in general, with 
few exceptions. 

About 250 persons collected—one or other of the propric- 
tors of Basle kindly giving a private garden for the purpose, 
the master and mistress themselves receiving the guests 
and distributing tea, bread, milk, beer, and cherries fresh- 
gathered from the trees on the spot. Thero peasants from 
Wiirtemberg and Alsace might be seen mixing with clergy 
and professors—having come twenty or thirty or more miles 
to this most real festival,—kindly received among the 
higher-placed and wealthier denizens of the city. The greater 
part of the company wandered about, the prospect of the 
Rhine and the German hills and the picturesque town before 
them: by degrees groups were formed,—where one began 
to speak, others stood to hear, and animated interlocution, 
French or German, was heard on all sides. While I was in 
conversation with Major, a very aged blind woman (resident 
far beyond Strasburg) eagerly greeted him, as recognising 
his voice, which she had heard years before when he had 
preached at Strasburg, and had sought in vain to hear again. 
I stood for some time eating cherries out of the same basket 
with a Suabian carrier, who had much to relate of his wan- 
derings, and entered most earnestly into the deep interest 
of this meeting of partakers in a common Christian faith. 

The second day, Wednesday, was devoted to the heathen : 
but nevertheless the Committee of the Jewish Mission met 

VOL. I. AA 


354 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


at eight o’clock in the morning, to communicate experiences 
and proposals among its own members,—and the quiet 
earnestness of this arrangement attracted me. I went in to 
hear, but after others had spoken I was asked to speak, and 
felt that I had no right to keep silence. I told them of 
Italy, and then of London and M‘Caul,—and could not resist 
notifying my favourite idea of arranging a Jewish-Christian- 
Apostolic Synagogue, with school-teaching in Hebrew, or in 
the language of the country,—by means of which, without 
violence, to work against the Rabbinical Synagogue, and to 
point out a possible future for the existence of the Jews as 
a nation. I spoke also of the fine elements of worship in the 
Jewish Liturgy, their Psalmody, and the active part taken 
by the congregation in prayer and Scripture reading as their 
office and privilege. Hausmeister, from Strasburg, Dr. 
Bahrdt, from Calw in Wiirtemberg, and others, eagerly con- 
sented. Among all discouragements, it is a comfort to know 
that the women (among the Jews) are now taught to read, 
and permitted to join in prayer—whereas formerly even the 
mother and mistress of a family had nothing to do in honse- 
worship but to kindle the Sabbath-lamp on Friday evening, 
and extinguish it on Saturday... . 

On the last evening the Mission Society receive all guests 
in their own garden, and give them tea. I was at first in 
the inner hall with Hofmann alone, where, besides the por- 
traits of missionaries, lie the remains of the bomb which 
proved the founder of this establishment and that at Beug- 
gen. When the French were obliged to raise the siege of 
Hiiningen, on their retreat they wantonly threw the destruc- 
tive missile towards Basle—but it burst near the Leonhard- 
gate, outside the city wall—and, in memory of the merciful 
deliverance of the town, a number of individuals resolved to 
combine for the formation of an establishment for the pro- 
pagation of the Gospel ; and thus arose, in 1816, the Mission- 
house here, and the Reformatory at Beuggen. .. . 


A few words of explanation seem necessary in order 


SEY. 48] THE BEUGGEN REFORMATORY. B00 


to understand Bunsen’s extreme interest in the estab- 
lishnent of Beuggen. One of the awful consequences 
of a condition of long continued war and oppression, 
little commented upon but widely felt, was the re- 
duction of crowds of children to a state of savage life, 
in various parts of Germany; they wandered about 
like homeless dogs, seeking any and everywhere the 
means of supporting their wretched existence. Their 
dwellings and parents having perished in the horrors 
of war, the communities to which they had belonged 
could no more be discovered, and the distress was too 
great and general, even in towns and villages which 
had not been reduced to the last extremity, to enable 
them to afford efficient charity to vagabonds who 
had become the pests of society. This lowest con- 
dition of human misery moved the compassionate 
heart of Johannes Falk, of Weimar (a man of genius, 
the admired associate of Gothe), to give up the 
brilliant world of wit and letters which he had 
delighted in and adorned, and to devote himself to 
literally ‘snatching the brands from the burning,’ by 
receiving into his dwelling, and into his very life, 
beings repulsive from physical and moral impurity, 
upon whom he bestowed first of all bodily relief, and 
then sought to bring these outcasts to the knowledge 
of the love of God and of His patience towards His 
fallen creatures, by the experience they had made of 
the love and patience which he, a mere man, was 
capable of exercising. This is not the place for en- 
larging upon this subject, I mean the first of the 
many reformatory establishments now existing, the 
principle of which was, not to compel by severity the 


aa2 


m8-6 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


adoption of good practices (as if such a course could 
succeed), but the conquest of the reprobate spirit by 
the influence of humanising kindness, by habits of 
wholesome industry, and by the development of the 
higher faculties. It was during the calamities of 
war that Falk commenced his labour of love, and im- 
mediately after the conclusion of the general peace 
Zeller offered himself for a life of self-sacrifice, in 
order to rescue the outcasts who roamed about the 
country round Basle. His position in life was that 
of an official in that town, the income of which place 
secured a maintenance for himself and his family. 
This he gave up in faith and confidence that, in doing 
the work which he felt to have been put in his way 
by Providence, the necessaries of life would never be 
wanting. His wife entered with the same ardour as 
himself into the new line of irksome duty, and the 
numerous family grew up into efficient assistants to 
their parents. Like the school in Halle, founded for 
the destitute in the beginning of the eighteenth cen- 
tury, by Aug. Hermann Franke, and like the orphan 
establishment still flourishing near Bristol under its 
founder, George Miller, that of Beuggen has neither 
funded property nor any regular income, and the 
pupils and their directors live day by day on volun- 
tary gifts, cultivating their land, but never laying by 
money; and the faith of the Director has never failed, 
nor met with disappointment. Neither poverty nor 
riches,’ but ‘food convenient for all’ has been the 
portion of all. 


Ex. 48] THE EASTERN QUESTION. 


J) 
Ade | 
t Sen 


Bunsen to the Right Hon. William E. Gladstone. 
The Hubel, Berne: 3rd August, 1840. 


.... Let me now thank you in the name of all Chris. 
tians, and of all well-wishers to the glory and welfare of 
England, for your indefatigable efforts to rescue your dear 
country from the eternal reproach of the opium question. 
You can scarcely be aware what good you have done, in 
enabling the friends of England abroad to maintain their 
ground against her numerous enemies, all Romanists, 
Atheists, Jacobins, of all colours and nations, Montalembert 
and his friends at the head, throwing that question in our 
face, as proving the humbug and hypocrisy of all pretended 
Christian profession and works of the English nation, as 
abolition of Slavery, Bible and Missionary Societies, &ec. I 
have thanked God, that Sandon and all to whom my heart 
and soul are attached in England followed the same course 
with you. 

After a long and animated argument on the 
Eastern question of that day, he proceeds as 
follows :— 


It is surely impossible not to see the finger of God in the 
foundation of an English Church and a congregation of 
Christian proselytes on the sacred hill of Jerusalem. And 
would you do nothing to avail yourselves of political 
conjunctures which it is not presumptuous to term provi- 
dential in their coincidence with those symptoms of Zion’s 
revival ? 

You may now without an effort obtain for Christianity in 
the Sultan’s dominions, not only liberty and privileges. such 
as Christian Europe fought for in the middle ges, but cven 
territorial property, indispensable for the maintenance of 
the first. But, whatever you do, let not party politics lame 
the hands of England! She holds the balance of Europe 
under that condition... . 


_i8 «~~ MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
The Hubel, Berne: 18th November, 1840. 


Yam most thankful to be able still to write to you from 
this charming place of quiet and leisure. ... I certainly 
had been led to suppose I should be called to Berlin for 
October 15, by no inferior authority than that of the King 
himself, whose words, transmitted to me by a most confi- 
dential agent, implied much more than my mere presence at 
that great epoch. J am assured that the intentions of the 
King have undergone no change, but the unexpected readi- 
ness shown by the Pope for an amicable arrangement of the 
Cologne affair having brought on Conferences on that sub- 
ject at Berlin, to be held during this winter, the King 
could not send for me, as it would have appeared to the 
Pope a hostile rather than a peaceable measure ; and besides, 
would have brought me into open opposition to the majority 
of the Ministers of his late father—most of whom he yet 
retains. The new Minister of the Royal House, General 
von Thile (my very faithful friend), wrote to me soon after 
October 15, ‘If the King did not give you on that day a 
sign of his love and esteem, it will have been for your now 
rood and for the King’s good, and I know that this second 
reason will satisfy you.’ The King has not written to me 
directly, but sent me word that he intended to do so, desir- 
ing me in the meantime to be convinced of his ‘most 
friendly dispositions,’ and consulting me about the negotia- 
tion with Rome—the agent appomted to go thither having 
orders to pass privately this way and take my advice. The 
King has entrusted me besides with a negotiation about 
calling men of literary distinction to Berlin in his name, 
and has on my suggestion already nominated two, and 
desired Humboldt to write to me on the subject of the 
measures he has in view. ... I am thankful beyond 
mensure for the present prospect of being left quietly here, 
till the spring at least, to continue my Egyptian researches 


JET. 49] KING FREDERICK WILLIAM IV. 309 


and those on the Gospels; for, once removed hence, my 
leisure will be at an end, perhaps for ever. 

The letter notices the extreme excitement produced 
by the insolent tone assumed by the periodical press 
of France in anticipation of speedily recovering the 
Rhine as a boundary. As an effect of this, the song 
‘They shall not, shall not have it—our free, our 
German Rhine!’ was sung to one melody or another 
with ever-increasing enthusiasm, from one end of the 
country to the other; and the prose ejaculations ac- 
companying this music and poetry spoke of nothing 
short of the re-conquest of Alsace and Lorraine, and 
of dictating terms by means of the army of united 
Germany, alone and unaided, at the gates of Paris. 
Then it was that the brilliant eloquence of the new 
Sovereign, whenever he had occasion to address his 
enthusiastic subjects, led the German mind, beyond 
the limits of his own dominions, to connect its 
habitual speculations with the splendid apparition of 
a monarch so gifted with every quality and so worthy 
of love and admiration : and a vision of German unity 
accompanied this general, though brief, intoxication. 
A lady of authority in matters of fact, as well as high 
in rank and mental gifts, declared (in 18438) her 
conviction to Bunsen, that during the two first years 
after Frederick William IV. came to the throne 
he was ‘master of the situation,’ and might have 
effected anything in Germany as leader of the public 
feeling. 

The summer and autumn of 1840 were marked in 
the memory of Bunsen and his family by many op- 
portunities of enjoyment gratefully entered into and 


360 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


prized at the time, and in subsequent periods looked 
back upon the more affectionately as having passed 
away not to return. They had never before been 
enabled to reside in a place which they were not 
obliged to leave in search of refreshment during the 
fine season ; whereas the Hubel afforded a fixed home, 
ao situated as to facilitate excursions of short dura- 
tion into the finest scenery possible, yet itself com- 
manding such splendour of nature as not to admit 
of a craving for change; and the advantage, to the 
growing-up sons and daughters, of the uninterrupted 
tenour of daily existence in the midst of vaned means 
for the acquisition of knowledge suited to the needs 
and tastes of each, was duly felt by all, though by 
none so much prized as by the parents, who best 
knew how rarely such periods of animated leisure 
occur in the working years of life, and who luxuriated 
in the contemplation of what Niebuhr terms, with 
reference to Roman History, the golden time of 
development—‘ Die goldene Zeit des Werdens.’ On 
looking back upon this year in Bunsen’s life—a time 
of vigorous purpose, of energetic occupation, of ac- 
tivity not debased by struggle, of action unhindered 
by the necessity of resistance, of ‘ rejoicing as a giant 
to run his course,’ of overlooking, as from a vantage- 
point, the regions to be traversed, the intellectual 
provinces to be won, the mental victories to be 
achieved--the remark suggests itself, applied by 
Silvio Pellico to his friend and fellow-sufferer—‘ Quel 
fiore di salute, o come appassi !’ 

Four days spent in the Bernese Oberland in July, 
and in August a week divided between Geneva and 


ZET. 49] LIFE AT THE HUBEL. 361 


Neufchatel (besides the journey to Basle and Ziirich), 
made out the sum total of Bunsen’s absences from 
home. 
At the Hubel many valued guests were received 
in succession, among whom none were more prized 
than the Rev. Frederick Maurice and his first wife, 
and Arthur P. Stanley, then young in years, but in 
whom Bunsen already discerned the promise since so 
nobly expanded and perfected. The birthday of the 
new Sovereign, on October 15, was cheerfully cele- 
brated at the Hubel, under the gathering gloom of 
the early winter. The first sprinkling of snow 
appeared on that festival-day ; and, soon after, the 
arrival of Neukomm, valued as a friend and associate 
full of sympathy and intelligence, and delighted in 
as originating and stimulating the daily pleasure of 
music; of Henry, the beloved eldest son (who came 
to the Hubel after taking his degree at Oxford) ; and 
of Lepsius, the favourite associate of Bunsen in 
Egyptian studies—contributed in various modes and 
degrees to the energy of life and of social intercourse 
which bid defiance to the severity of a winter of a 
rigour unusual even in that mountain region, and 
also to the gloom, worse than the cold, caused by 
the long-enduring fogs rising from the Aar, and fill- 
ing every space up to a considerable height on the 
hills. A visit of two days made by Bunsen and a few 
members of the family at the Hubel to Mr. Morier, 
at Thun, was marked in their recollection, not only 
by the social pleasure there enjoyed, but also by the 
personal experience of the depth of the fog which 
concealed the lake even from the view of a house 


362 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1840 


separated from the water only by the breadth of the 
road. A walk of three-quarters of an hour, every step 
of which was uphill, through a portion of the forest 
which shook down the hoar-frost like hail upon the 
passengers, brought them to a point where the 
Jungfrau showed clear and massive in the full 
grandeur of eternal snow against the deep blue sky, 
‘the solar beams reflecting cloudless,’ nothing else 
being visible but the smooth and level surface of 
the sunlit masses of vapour, from which the giant- 
mountain seemed to rise as from a bed of down. 


Er. 49] MISSION TO ENGLAND. 363 


CHAPTER X. 
MISSION TO ENGLAND. 


AUDIENCE AT BERLIN —BISHOPRIC OF JKRUSALEM-——ARRIVAI IN LONDON — 
QUKEN ADELAIDE—LORD PALMERSTON —PUSEYISM——-DEATH OF MES. 
DENISON—DUNCHURCH-—LETTER FROM SIR ROBERT PERIL—DINNER TO 
BISHOP ALEXANDER—VISIT TO WINDSOR CASTLE—APPOINTMENT A8 
MINISTER TO THE COURT OF ST. JAMES'S. 


In April 1841 Bunsen was summoned, not unex- 
pectedly, to Berlin, to receive by word of mouth 
the commands and instructions of King Fredenck 
William IV., for a temporary mission to England, 
‘which would be explained to him in person.’ 


Bunsen to Mrs. Waddington. 
The Hubel, Berne: 5th April, 1841. 


Thus, my dearest mother, Iam coming to my Fanny’s 
country, as you might perhaps have wished to see me come 
the first time—as the Envoy of my Sovereign. Of all 
diplomatic missions this is the only one which I am thank- 
ful to have, it being merely on a special occasion for a sbort 
time, as is expressly stated to me. I thank God, besides, 
that J did not come so the first time; for I could only prove 
by entering the country as an individual, and rather against 
the tide, that I had frends in England as Bunsen. And 
again, if I had not been there, and had not been received as 
I was, the King would probably not have thought of this 
mission. Whatever the object is, I am sure it is an agree- 
able one, for the King wishes to give me an opportunity of 
success in the world. I believe 1 shall be in England by 
May, and again at Berne by July... . J am just finishing 


364 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


the last chapter on the ‘ Basilicas,’ the former part being in 
the press. The last volume of the ‘ Description of Rome’ 
passed through my hands the other day. Lepsius left us a 
week ago, taking with him the first volume of ‘ Egypt,’ 
written between the lst and 27th of February: since which 
IT have been printing the form of worship for the Holy 
Week. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


{ Translation. ] Naumburg: 26th April, 1841. 


At length I can write to you upon a course the most 
important and difficult, perhaps, that I may have to under- 
take, before that which shall lead to the grave: and yet the 
smoothest and most joyous—for I have been borne as by 
angels thus far. 

At Basle I saw many friends ; on all sides one felt the spirit 
of the Mission-festival ever active. Early in the morning 
the thought was clear and living before my soul, that th.- 
King had called me with a view to do something in the Holy 
Land ; and that it might be the will of the Lord, and pro- 
bably would be that of the King, that in Jerusalem the two 
principal Protestant Churches of Iurope should, across the 
grave of the Redeemer, reach to each other the right hand 
of fellowship. . .. The centre of the thought of all hearts 
is the Holy Land ; and many assured me that with prayer 
and with true affection they look to Frederick William IV. 
... At Frankfort, Sydow, the faithful friend, awaited me, 
and we went together to Radowitz, of whom I enquired 
whether he knew the object for which I had been called 
to Berlin? He answered, ‘No!’ and I rejoined, ‘ Neither 
have I been informed, but yet I believe I know,’—and I 
told him my supposition. ‘Then,’ said he, ‘the King has 
already set me to work for you;’ and he brought out the 
Memoir, written by him from the King’s dictation, in French, 
in March, just as it was sent in to the four Great Powers on 
the 30th of that month, as the King’s Address to European 


£1. 49] AUDIENCE WITH THE KING. 865 


Christendom, on the subject of the so-called Sacred Places 
in Palestine ; which was met, and blown to the winds, by a 
witticism—‘ Ce serait établir une Cracovie religicuse.’ 

Then did Radowitz give me a description (modelled in 
bronze, with his own well-known plastic power) of the con- 
dition of minds awaiting me at Berlin. Those of the Royal 
family he portrays as more favourable than I anticipated : 
elsewhere much of hatred and mistrust, and yet more of 
fear. But as of all these I feel in myself nothing but what 
I may hope with the help of God to overcome, I have no 
apprehension. .. . 


The letters of Bunsen to his wife were more abun- 
dant than ever during this period of absence; but of 
these deeply interesting effusions little can be ex- 
tracted to serve the purpose of completing the picture 
of his mind and life. The mere fact of his being 
called by the King was a cause both of joy and 
triumph, when the circumstances are considered 
which interposed a barrier, seemingly impenetrable, 
to his return to Berlin. 

Bunsen’s inner consciousness expanded and dilated 
in the genial atmosphere of the King’s presence, and 
his eminent power of being happy had rarely been 
more fully called forth than in the intercourse with 
the King granted to him during the five weeks to 
which his stay was extended. In the golden Now 
of the beginning reign hope ruled the hour and 
grasped the future; and the complications, the con- 
tentions of principles, the clash of highest interests, 
which were not long in making themselves felt, were 
‘hush’d in grim repose.’ The demeanour of the 
King towards him exemplified throughout the senti- 
ment conveyed in his own original utterance previous 


366 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


to the meeting, ‘I hunger and thirst after Bunsen !’ 
On the 2nd May Bunsen was received in the most 
affectionate manner in the Palace at Berlin, and con- 
ducted by the King into that same inner chamber, 
to the same spot which he had occupied at the last 
interview on December 2, 1837, where, after a few 
words of kindness, the King’s voice was choked as 
he alluded to the death of his father, and the degree 
of emotion in both needed silence in which to sub- 
side; then there followed a concise indication by the 
King of the commission to be entrusted to him. 
The arrival of the King of Holland as a guest at 
table broke off the communication, to be renewed 
when the King removed to Potsdam on the 6th, 
whither he commanded Bunsen to follow him, and to 
take up his abode in the’so-called Japanese House, 
a favourite dwelling of Frederick the Great. The 
charm of the Royal gardens, of the season of abun- 
dant blossom, and of the genial weather, were all 
circumstances of which Bunsen was strongly sus- 
ceptible. 

The subject of the commission entrusted to Bunsen 
cannot here be passed over, as having been one of 
great importance both at that time and afterwards ; 
but the comment shall be as short as is consistent 
with the endeavour to give a true re; resentation of 
the amount of Bunsen’s own views, which were 
infused into the design of the King ;—worked out 
by him with such earnest zeal, clung to through life 
as far as he felt them to be of real use to the cause 
of Christianity, but farthered in their very beginning 
by a strong breeze of delusion, which acted variously 


Zt. 50] BISHOPRIC OF JERUSALEM. 367 


on the several participators in the scheme, but which 
naturally flagged when their time was over. 


Bunsen to Frederick Perthes. 
[Translation. } London: 12th October, 1841. 
The King has from carly youth cherished the idea 
of amending the condition of Christians in the Holy Land; 
where, as throughout the Turkish Empire, the position of 
all Christians is altogether ignominions, and that of Protes- 
ants doubly so. 

The Treaty of July 15, 1841, appeared to him to indicate 
that the Princes of Christendom considered it to be their 
duty to remove this disgrace. He would have much pre. 
ferred that this object should have been effected by all the 
Christian Powers acting together, and to have seen it so 
effected that the Holy Places should have been given over 
into Christian hands, without interfering with Turkish su- 
premacy ; but that proved impossible. Then I was called 
the chief points were as follows :— 

A negotiation jointly with the English Government, in Con- 
stantinople, to obtain the acknowledgment of a Protestant 
body, as such, in the Turkish Empire; and a confidential ne- 
gotiation with the heads of the Church of England, desiring 
of them the establishment of a Bishopric in Jerusalem, with 
which other Protestant Christians might connect themselves. 


Into this noble purpose of the King Bunsen en- 
tered with all his soul’s energy; and if the word 
delusion has been unwillingly used, it applies not to 
the design, but to the effect of the exuberance of 
hope, picturing a grandeur of result such as human 
imperfection, whether in circumstances or individuals, 
has as yet only delayed, not defeated. Abundant 
have been the blessings diffased from the centre of 
Christian life which it was granted to Frederick 
William IV. to originate in Jerusalem; but the more 


368 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1841 


real, the more spiritual, the more belonging to the 
‘deep things of God,’ that work has been, the less is 
that establishment calculated to be ‘a renown in the 
earth.’ The day which shall ‘reveal the thoughts 
of all hearts’ will reveal the work of revival and of 
sanctification which it has been allowed to effect. 

Bunsen arrived with his instructions in London 
in the midst of a crisis from which he apprehended 
disturbance, but which proved highly favourable to 
his negotiations in every quarter. The Ministry of 
Lord Melbourne, then about to resign office, and that 
of Sir Robert Peel about to enter upon it, showed 
equal readiness to meet the wishes of the King of 
Prussia and encourage every plan which might in- 
crease national sympathy and union with the prin- 
cipal Protestant power on the Continent. Of the 
existing centres of opinion—‘ thrones, dominations, 
princedoms, virtues, powers ’—each and all in Great 
Britain, 80 independent in reality of influence, the 
greater part were, or became favourable, to the views 
of the subject which Bunsen brought to bear upon 
them. The mild and venerable Archbishop of Can- 
terbury, Dr. Howley, and the gifted and energetic 
Bishop of London, Dr. Blomfield, warmly encouraged 
the purpose; as did the entire party of a weight 
equal to its worth, termed Evangelical, with its 
distinguished leader, Lord Ashley, now Earl of 
Shaftesbury. 

As Bunsen always endeavoured to find, and often 
succeeded in finding for his highest ideas, some 
footing in practical realities, so did he find a start- 
ing-point for the new Jerusalem Bishopric in the 


Zr. 50] THE BISHOPRIC OF JERUSALEM. 369 


already existing mission to the Jews, where he who 
was the most influential man of the society, Dr. 
M‘Caul, entered into the matter with enthusiasm ; 
the spirit of the time in the mass of English society 
being directed to the reclaiming of the Jews with a 
degree of zeal that forms on retrospect a mortifying 
contrast to the present dispirited and discouraged 
condition of minds in respect to that great object of 
hope and prayer. 

The steady opponents of Bunsen’s negotiation were 
the men influenced by the opinions of J. H. Newman, 
who even in the altered form (greatly modified from 
the original design to provide unity and common 
action between Continental and English Christians) 
still found too much of the impress of the King’s 
original idea. 

At last, however, an English Bishopric was founded 
by Act of Parliament, to the endowment of which the 
King of Prussia furnished one-half of the requisite 
funds, the remainder being supplied by subscriptions 
in England among individuals ; the Prussian Govern- 
ment stipulating that German congregations and 
missions should share in the care and protection 
diplomatically procured and extended to the esta- 
blishment. It was, in a manner, the founding of a 
Colonial Bishopric, such as were afterwards founded 
in considerable number in English colonies; the 
colonists here being the Protestant Christians, or 
those willing to become such, scattered abroad in a 
wide district, like that to which the general Epistles 
of Peter were addressed. 

The intention of introducing a stipulation that 

VOL. I. BB 


370 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


German pastors labouring in the Holy Land should 
accept English Ordination shall only be mentioned 
here in order to specify that by the influence of 
Bunsen it was rescinded. As for the report spread 
and credited on the Continent that Bunsen, as well 
as his Royal master, intended surreptitiously to in- 
troduce Episcopacy and Episcopal Ordination into 
Prussia, it was solely founded on a supposition wholly 
unsupported by any act or measure proposed. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
[Translation.] Sans Souci: 8th June, 1841. 


Berlin now lies behind me; the next night will bring me 
on the way to Halle. I arrived here yesterday evening ; 
the King having expressed his wish that I might be ready 
by Monday. 

. .. » Lord William Russell had given me to understand 
that to commence the negotiation in prospect with me 
would be agreeable to Lord Palmerston, and Biilow’s re- 
port being to the same effect, I took opportunity to suggest 
to the King to give me my dismissal—which I expect to- 
morrow. .. . The King had desired me to remove to Sans 
Souci, as in the present rainy weather the Japanese dwelling 
might be cold. What can one express about so much 
kindness? Only consider how the King is engaged ; every 
day from nine in the morning till the hour of dinner (three 
o'clock) ! ministerial reports arc made to him; then again 
public business, from an hour after dinner till tea time at 
seven ; athalf-past ten he dismisses the company, and then 
sits down while others go to rest, to read papers and des- 
patches, and the letters which have arrived during the day ; 
after which he writes his own letters, and is often at work 
till one or two o'clock in the morning. When the accu- 
mulation is great, the excellent Queen sits up with him, to 
read papers aloud, or, in one way or another, to help. He 


Ex. 49] ARRIVAL IN LONDON. 371 


sees and feels everything defective, whether in persons or 
things, more clearly and deeply than anyone in his do- 
minions. 


After a journey marked by much enjoyment of the 
society of old friends, at Gotha, Naumburg, Bonn, and 
Brussels, Bunsen was enabled to date his first letter 
from London on June 24, St. John’s Day, the anni- 
versary of the commencement of the congregation on 
the Capitol. He clung with affection to ‘ signs and 
seasons, and days and years,’ though not to the extent 
that would have degenerated into superstition ; a date 
once marked by an event for good seemed to him a 
point round which all that was good and desirable 
might cluster for ever. 


Bunsen to hie Wife. 
{ Translation. } Wimpole Street: 24th June (St. John’s Day). 


Thus I write to you from London, from the same house 
and room which first received us on our flight out of Kyy pt. 
What years of blessing, what recollections, what events be- 
tween then and now! It sometimes appears to me like a 
dream. Then, trying to find my way in the much lonyed- 
for but unknown island, in narrow circumstances, avoiding 
by choice, yet more than by necessity, every degree of 
publicity; now returning as the Envoy of such a King, in 
such a cause, at this moment!.. . 

I am just arrived at the right moment. I shall have all 
the advantage of Lord Palmerston’s knowledge of the sub- 
ject, and the result of his negotiations at Constantinople ; 
he is willing to do what he can, and his successor cannot do 
less. Parliament is to meet on August 20, and Sir Robert 
Peel is expected to come in before the end of the month. 

... . Lord Ashley’s communications as to what bas been 
done here in the very sense of the King’s wishes are so 


BR % 


372 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1841 


romantic that the world will never believe that there existed 
no preconcerted plan. There is some alarm in the diplomatic 
world ; the Russian and French representatives said, I should 
be stirring up Lord Palmerston to remodel the Eastern ques- 
tion. Neumann (the Austrian) said to Biilow, when the 
question was asked, ‘What is Bunsen’s commission?’ ‘To 
form a second league of Schmalkalden.’ Lord Melbourne 
also took Biilow to task, saying, ‘ Bunsen is a stirring man: 
what is he todo?’ Biilow has behaved admirably, as the 
King’s minister, and as a friend ; it was most necessary that 
I should find him here. .. . 


To the Same. 
London: Monday, 5th July. 


I have begun my business, and—I have finished it— 
essentially—and well. God be thanked! ... 

Biilow leaves London in a week for Berlin, and will be 
the bearer of these good tidings. .. . 

The enemy will strive to sow weeds; but I hope the gar- 
dener will be too strong for him. 


To the Same. 
Bushy Park: Tuesday, 13th July. 


.... I must tell you that Monday (the day before I was 
at Bushy Park) was the most decisive and important day. 
I had written down the development of the principles con- 
tained in the King’s Instruction, having foreseen that their 
consequences might have a startling effect ; and this was the 
case. I, of course, demanded for the German congregation 
and converts the German service and the Confession of 
Augsbarg. But when I perceived that it was admitted that 
the plurality of tongues and of articles was not contrary to 
unity, I took the offensive, and argued that they must act 
in a catholic and not in an Anglican sense, and that they 
ought to be foremost in establishing the principle of ‘ unity 
in principle with national individuality ;’ that Rome was 


Er. 49) LETTER TO MRS. FRY. 373 


digging her own grave by taking the contrary course. This 
was yielded ; and then I took my higher flight... . The 
venerable Archbishop hailed in spirit the benefits that may 
result. . . . The Bishop of London spoke in the same strain, 
and Dr. Kaye (Bishop of Lincoln) assented. This ever- 
memorable conference lasted two hours. I then went to Sir 
Robert Peel, who had expressed to Lord Ashley the wish to 
see me at one o’clock—(in spite of his having the elections 
and the marriage of his danghter on his mind)—of course, 
I came not before two, but yet he received me, and I ex- 
plained the whole in a conference which lasted till four. 
He showed by his questions the difficulties he foresaw politi- 
cally, but took the greatest interest, and seemed satisfied 
with my explanations. ... 

Monday, 19th July, 1841.—This is a great day. Iam just 
returned from Lord Palmerston; the principle is admitted, 
and orders to be transmitted accordingly to Lord Ponsonby 
at Constantinople, to demand the acknowledgment required. 
The successor of St. James will embark in October; he is 
by race an Israelite—born a Prussian in Breslan—in con- 
fession belonging to the Church of England—ripened (by 
hard work) in Ireland—twenty years Professor of Hebrew 
and Arabic in England (in what is now King’s College). So 
the beginning is made, please God, for the restoration of 
Israel... . 


Bunsen to Mrs. Elizabeth Fry. 
Curzon Street : 9th July, 1841. 


May your prayer for me be heard, and the grace of God 
be vouchsafed to me, without which we can do nothing, and 
are nothing. The school through which, with few excep- 
tions, He has been pleased to conduct me has been that of 
success and prosperity, and you know, as a Christian, it is 
a trying one, and, without grace, more so than that of ad- 
versity ; we are so apt to ascribe to ourselves and our merit 
what is given to us, notwithstanding ourselves and our sins. 


374 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. (1841 


Self is the only power which God has given to man the awful 
liberty of placing between the rays of eternal grace and his 
own darkness. It absorbs the light divine, and takes away 
the blessing of all that we receive. Self-will brought on 
Adam's fall, self-will died on the Cross, at the foot of which 
alone we can, as priests of the Most High, sacrifice it with 
willingness of heart, out of thankfulness for love unspeak- 
able, and receive in its place a new heart, moving in the 
blessed sphere of the Divine Will. But self even tries to 
snatch away this very new life, if not guarded against— 
and more especially in prosperity. I feel that I have never 
such need of divine grace as in sueh moments. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 


Friday morning, 6th August. — ... Allis settled finally. 
The Bishops will request next Thursday the authorisation of 
the Crown to consecrate Professor Alexander as Bishop of 
the United Church, consisting of members of the National 
Churches of England and Prussia, at Jerusalem. Next 
Thursday, Dr. M‘Caul will have with Lord Ashley a confer- 
ence at Lambeth to lay down the preliminaries of an union 
of the Jewish Society with the Bishops. . . . I have ceased 
to wonder. How TI long to show and to explain to you all! 

I start immediately for Herstmonceaux, to Hare. 


15, South Audley Street: 11th August. 


18th August. —... The Memoir, with translation (eighty 
pages folio), goes to Berlin, I hope with my final report. To 
this I shall add a very solemn address to the King, express- 
ing my earnest prayer to be allowed (after having pre- 
sented myself to His Majesty) to retire to Bonn to work 
quietly in the cause of restoration of the Church ; and depre- 
cating any further interference with the practical business 
of the day. 

26th August. — ... In sending off the Memoir to the 
King, I repeated that although small it was the work of my 


Er. 50) LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 875 


life—yet written ina foreign land and s strange tongue—as 
my Liturgy on the Capitol, and my Hymn Book at Rome !— 
a tragical destiny, and yet blessed to me. On Wednesday 
came a courier with despatches and letters from General von 
Thile, expressing the King’s ‘most grateful acknowledg- 
ment,’ but at the same time some fears and apprehensions 
as to my putting the King too much forward—he desiring 
to act but as a humble Christian. My answer to these 
apprehensions (which are couched in the most touching 
terms) will have been the Memoir; but I could not have 
sent it earlier, although it was ready and delivered on the 
30th of July. On Friday came a second courier, in conse- 
quence of a misunderstood expression, from which he feared 
the idea might go forth as if an wnion of the two Churches 
were aimed .at—for which Germany certainly was not pre- 
pared. This time the King had written himself, in one of 
his nightly hours, one of his most precious effusions. . . . 

An admonition not to go on too fast, closed with the 
words, ‘Our digestion cannot yet bear strong meat. For 
God’s sake, for the sake of the holy cause, gently!’ I could 
only write two lines that evening to announce my explicit, 
and, I hoped, satisfactory explanation. . . 


Pusey: Ist September. 

Here I sit in the dear house, surrounded by those grounds 
we walked in in the winter’s gloom, but which now are 
clothed in all the beauty of the season and charm of Eng- 
lish verdure, under an Italian sky and sun! . . . It is 
impossible for me to be quite happy without you, otherwise 
I feel to-day very happy. I enjoy air and sun for the first 
time since I left you, quite as much as I did at Frascati and 
at the Hubel. 

Ritter, the great geographer, is in England, on his way 
to Scotland, and on his return will live in my house. Hare 
had just left me before I came hither... . 

Monday morning, 6th September.—I sit here in the love- 


376 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


liness and loneliness of an English morning at half-past: six, 
when of course no soul is awake. Jam tostart at seven, to 
be at home by eleven. Pusey is become more a farmer 
than ever, but delighted not the less in reading with me 
Demosthenes’ noble speech, ‘ De Coronf,’ which he knows 
almost by heart. 

The other day, Sporlein, the good pastor of Antwerp, my 
fellow-traveller, arrived, on his pilgrimage to seek comfort 
in the Church and faith of this country. At Oxford he 
went to Newman, who invited him to breakfast, for a con- 
ference on religious opinions. Sporlein stated his difficul- 
ties, as resulting from the consistorial government being in 
the hands of unbelievers, while in the evangelical society, 
which he had been tempted to join, the leading members 
protested against every idea of church-membership. The 
breakfast party consisted of fifteen young men, whom New- 
man invited to an expression of opinion and advice ; and the 
award (uncontradicted) was that ‘Pastor Sporlein, as a 
continental Christian, was subject to the authority of the 
Bishop of Antwerp.’ He objected that by that Bishop he 
would be excommunicated as a heretic. ‘Of course; but 
you will conform to his decision?’ ‘ How can I do that,’ 
exclaimed Sporlein, ‘without abjuring my faith?’ ‘But 
your faith is heresy.’ ‘How! do you mean that I am to 
embrace the errors of Rome, and abjure the faith of the 
Gospel?’ ‘There is no faith but that of the Church.’ ‘ But 
my faith is in Christ crucified.” ‘You are mistaken; you 
are not saved by Christ, but in the Church.’ 

Sporlein was thunderstruck ; he looked around, asked 
again, obtained but the same reply—whereupon he burst 
out with the declaration that ‘he believed in Christ cruci- 
fied, by whose merits alone he could be saved, and that he 
would not join the Church of Rome, abhorring her for in- 
truding into the place of Christ.’ One after the other 
dropped away, and Newman, remaining witb him alone, at- 
tempted an explanation, which however did not alter the 


Br. 50] DEATH OF MRS. DENISON. 377 


case. I repeated this lamentable story as Sporlein had told 
it to Hare and myself: and Pusey said it was like telling a 
man complaining of toothache that the infallible remedy 
would be cutting off his head. The story made such an im- 
pression on Hare, that it decided him to publish the notes 
to his sermons: and he said that if he could preach at Ox- 
ford, it should be on the text of Elijah, ‘If the Lord be 
God, serve Him; but if Baal, then serve him.’ 

‘Knox for ever!’ exclaimed Lord Haddington, when we 
spoke on the subject. I say not so—this is the reaction 
against the one-sidedness of Knox and his followers. But 
certainly, rather Knox than Papacy in its worst appearance ! 
QO ! this is heartrending. 


Letter to Kestner. 
{ Translation. | Pusey: 3rd September, 1841. 


I must begin with thanks for your newly-proved kindness 
and friendship to my good Henry. I hope on the 19th to 
be present in the Cathedral of Salisbury, at his ordination 
as Deacon. How gratifying it 1s, that he should share in 
the solemnity just in that place, under the worthy consort 
of a being whom I love and have loved as a daughter, and 
who has granted, and still grants, to me a daughter’s affec- 
tion !* It is a fine compensation to us old men, that the 
very loss of youth enables us to assume a paternal relation 
(so suitable to the masculine character) towards women. 
Is it not so? 

I have contrived for myself a few holidays, and revel in 
the incomparable verdure al] around me, and read Demos- 
thenes with Pusey. But the last eight weeks were no time 
of rest—never have I worked more, and never in matters 
more weighty. .. . 


* These lines had scarcely been written when the lovely and beloved 
being here spoken of, the ‘darling of each heart and eye,’ Mrs. Edward 
Denison (born Louisa Ker Seymer), was called away from the best lot 
of earth to the higher life after which her nature aspired. 


378 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
15, South Audley Street: 22nd September. 


My Dearest,—I have no good accounts from our dearest 
Louisa’s excellent Bishop (of Salisbury), who has kindly 
written to me three times in the last week. 

I am preparing for a decisive step. I shall write by the 
courier, who is to depart next Friday, to my paternal friend 
General von Thile, that I feel the duty of endeavouring to 
provide a home for my family, and consider the present mo- 
ment as favourable ; that the mission to London was an 
auspicious conclusion to twenty-three years’ diplomatic ser- 
vice ; but my returning to Berne, except for the purpose of 
fetching home my family, appeared to me unsuitable. It 
would be in the meantime my endeavour to become pos- 
sessed of a country abode, so as to go thither for a fixed 
residence next May, with aretiring pension. I deemed the 
moment favourable for such a communication of my plans 
and requests, when having succeeded in carrying out His 
Majesty's intentions, and having received his most unquali- 
fied commendations, my course of action could not be mis- 
understood. This will place the King and myself in a good 
relative position, and prove to all who desire not to have 
me in Prussia that I intend not to intrude myself into his 
service. 

Sometimes it appears to me impossible that the King 
should commit the seed that I have sown to other watching 
than my own; but nobody can escape the influence of the 
atmosphere by which he is surrounded, and the effects of 
the air he breathes: least of all a King. If free, I may 
perhaps serve him ten times better than if not. I shall 
finish the letter when I return from Lord Aberdeen... . 

P.S. 23rd September.—Louisa is no more on this earth. 
An hour ago I received Mrs. Webber's few lines, scarcely 
legible. All seemed going on well—when yesterday after- 
noon a fainting fit brought her to her rest. So she writes 


Er. 50] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 379 


Wednesday night—it was then no delusion—it must be 
really the sleep of death. Oh! lovely and beloved angel! 
may we all come where thou art! .. . 

I have sent my letter to Thile. Keep the copy to your- 
self: it will be a decisive one. O how I hate and detest 
diplomatic life! and how little true intellectuality is there 
in the high society here, as soon as you cease to speak of 
English national subjects and interests; and the eternal 
hurricane, whirling, urging, rushing, in this monster of n 
town! My stay in England in 1838-39 was the poetry of 
my existence as a man: this is the prose of it. There was 
a dew upon those fifteen months, which the sun has dried 
up, and which nothing can restore. Even with you and 
the children life would become oppressive under the diplo- 
matic burden. I can pray for ourcountry life, but I cannot 
pray for a London life, although I dare not pray against it, 
if it must be... . 

Sunday morning, 6th October.—Last night, at Sir Robert 
Peel’s, I had a deeply-felt conversation with Gladstone, who 
knew and venerated her whois gone. . . . 

O what is life, if it were not a passage to eternity and 
bliss! Our feelings are not commensurate with this inch of 
existence. 

God bless you and preserve you, and the dear precious 
children, prays your more than ever devoted and attached, 
—C. B. 


Lo the Same. 
80th September, 1841. 

... I thank God, that you as entirely feel as myself, that I 
for my honour’s sake cannot return to Berne, except to fetch 
you: and that you look upon the highest prize in the lottery 
of Prussian diplomacy as a pis-aller, as Ido. . . My whole 
nature longs more than ever after the repose of eternity, 
the contemplation of things divine, and casting uway of all 
others... . 

I fear the King combines not yet cause and effect suffi- 


382. . MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


ciently in his government. Great preparations are made, the 
world is in expectation, and the time flies past... . To 
what purpose are ideas, but to be realised? To what can 
thoughts serve, but to be brought into execution? ... 
Never in the history of the world was a great destiny twice 
offered to the same Prince,* and it would be self-deceiving 
to reckon in this present century upon deceiving the hopes 
of a nation, or lulling them to sleep... . 

I have seen Court Granville (now Vicar of Alnwick, 
Northumberland), and he pleased me so much that I en- 
tered into a conversation with him, after which I liked him 
still better. Since then I have heard from Mrs. Vernon 
(the Lady of the Manor in his parish of Mayfield), that he is 
exemplary and indefatigable in the care of the population 
confided to him, and has changed the condition of the parish 
in the four years he has been labouring in it. Yesterday I 
saw Ilam and Dovedale—what lovely valleys ! that of Dove- 
dale has the character of those of Northern Italy and the 
Adige, or properly the South Tyrolese. I could have kissed 
the ground at llam, in the thought that your mother was 
born there. The vicarage of your uncle Bernard Port is 
charming. . . . I met Mrs. Ram and Lady Jane, and shall 
visit them to-morrow; calling by the way at Mayfield, on 
Mra. Vernon (a true deaconess and nursing sister), and with 
her go to Court, who is worthy of the name of Granville. 


A letter from Rugby, whither Bunsen proceeded 
from Wootton Hall on his return to London, is full of 
the animated interest with which he contemplated the 
parish of Dunchurch, renovated materially and spiritu- 
ally under the influence of the Rev. John Sandford 
(since Archdeacon of Coventry), with whom his son 
Henry (whose Ordination had just taken place) was 
privileged to reside for a time as curate, in order to 


* And yet, a great destiny was offered to this Prince a second time. 


21.50] HIS VIEWS OF THE ENGLISH CHURCh. 388 


enter fully into the sphere of duty which he was soon 
to exercise in his own parish. 

The aspect of the parish of Dunchurch confirmed 
in Bunsen’s mind his predilection for the Church of 
England, and his satisfaction in beholding his son’s 
entrance upon duties which constituted a privilege 
rather than an obligation, within the limits of the one 
Christian community whose early Reformers had laid 
upon conscience no band more stringent (in the in- 
stance of the ‘burning question ’ of Bible interpreta- 
tion) than to accept as a fact that ‘Holy Scripture 
containeth all things necessary to salvation.’ 

If in the case of Bunsen ‘love waxed cold’ in subse- 
quent years to the English Church system it was be- 
cause constant inspection and observation proved a 
test too rigorous not to detect imperfection and dete- 
rioration. The ideal which he had formed to him- 
self, and admired before he was an inhabitant of the 
country, he admired to the end, and only deplored 
that ‘man should have brought in many inventions’ 
where under Divine influence the fabric had been 
“made upright.’ 

Bunsen to his Wife. 
London: Monday, 12th October. 

.. . On my return bome I found a letter from Sir Robert 
Peel, of which I encloseatranscript. I had written to him, 
having failed to receive a note which I knew he had sent 
to me (which to-day has come to hand, returned from Woot- 
ton), adding a few words of my feeling as to his distin- 
guished reception of Cornelius, with allusion to the words he 
had used in Parliament (‘that great and noble Germany ’) 
on the last night of the former Ministry. To this I owe a 


383. , -* MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


letter, which alone would have been worth a journey to 
England. The warmth of the expressions is such as one is 
not accustomed to in him. I shall send it for the King to 
see on his birthday. 


Sir Robert Peel to Bunsen. 
Whitehall: 10th October, 1841. 


My peak Mr. Bunsen,—My note merely conveyed a re- 
quest that you would be good enough to meet Mr. Cornelius 
at dinner on Friday last. 

I assure you that I have been amply repaid for any atten- 
tion which I may have shown to that distinguished artist, 
in the personal satisfaction I have had in the opportunity 
of making his acquaintance. He is one of a noble people, 
distinguished in every art of war and peace. The union and 
patriotism of that people spread over the centre of Europe 
will contribute the surest guarantee for the peace of the 
world, and the most powerful check upon the spread of all 
pernicious doctrines injurious to the cause of religion and 
order, and that liberty which respects the rights of others. 

My earnest hope is, that every member of this illustrious 
race—while he may cherish the particular country of his 
birth, as he does his home—will extend his devotion beyond 
its narrow limits, and exult in the name of a German, and 
recognise the claim of Germany to the love and affection 
and patriotic exertions of all her sons. 

I hope I judge of the feelings of every German by those 
which were excited in my own breast (in the breast of a 
foreigner and a stranger) by a simple ballad, that seemed 
however to concentrate the will of a mighty people, and 
said emphatically, 

They shall not have the Rhine. 


They will not have it—and the Rhine will be protected 
by a song, if the sentiments which that song embodies 
rvade, as I hope and trust they do, every German heart. 

You will begin to think that Iam a good German myself 


Ex. 50) LETTERS TO HIS WIFE. 883 


—and so I am, if hearty wishes for the union and welfare 
of the German race can constitute oue. 
Believe me, most faithfally yours, 
Rosert PEEL. 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
London: 15th October. 


. . On October 31 the Consecration is to take place 
cutie title will be, ‘Bishop of the Church of St. James at 
Jerusalem,’ in which al] parties are understood. 


To the Same. 
Killerton: Sunday morning, 24th October. 


Here I sit in delicious sunshine, inhaling the mild air, 
and experiencing the charm of the magically-southern 
Devonshire ; in front having the prospect of a hill, the slope 
of which, down to the garden, next the house, embosomed 
in flowers, is covered with fine evergreen oaks, and two 
grand cypresses, rising out of the dark foliage and rounded 
crowns of the others. We had an equally fine day for our 
arrival, and found Pusey and the Inglis’s. From Gladstone 
I have received a long and eloquent letter, but making 
difficulties. I must talk the whole well over with him this 
week ;—also get the articles finished for the Archbishop ; 
and come to an entire understanding with Sir Stratford 
Canning; lastly, Julius Hare will come on the 27th. Glad- 
stone writes, ‘I know from the questions I receive on this 
subject, that the novelty and (as yet) dimness of the 
scheme has made it act powerfully on the nerves of my 
countrymen ; you must give us the benefit of guiding us 
with a gentle and a steady hand.’ 

London : Tuesday.—Peel will grant a steamer to convey 
the new Bishop to Joppa, with his entire staff, from sixteen 
to twenty souls. Lord Ashley applied to Peel, and I to 
Haddington, who has interested himself warmly in the 
matter asa friend. This is another cause for great thank- 


384 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


fulness! The Newmanites continue their condemnation 
of the whole plan. 

London : Sunday noon, 81st October.—Here I stand at my 
desk, instead of being at church, having yesterday been 
obliged by a feverish cold to keep my bed and my fast, and 
to-day to remain within ; and just now a parcel has arrived 
with the King’s command, ‘to compose for the Syrian 
churches a form (taken out of the provincial Agenden or 
Orders of Worship) for Sunday use ; for festival days, how- 
ever, to take that appointed for the evangelical congrega- 
tion on the Capitol.’ How can I describe to you my feel- 
ings! The work dearest to me of all that I ever designed 
or executed is to be saved and transported to the Hill of 
Zion at the moment when efforts are making to tear down 
the tranquil sanctuary on the Capitol. You can feel this 
with me, beloved! I camnot write more to-day. 

London: Thursday, 4th November.—Important days have 
elapsed since I last wrote. Gladstone had been invited to 
become one of the Trustees for the Jerusalem Fund; and 
this led to a correspondence with me and with the Bishop 
of London. He is beset with scruples; his heart is with 
us, but his mind is entanglod in a narrow system. He 
awaits salvation from another side, and by wholly different 
ways from myself. Yesterday evening I had a letter from 
him of twenty-four pages, to which I replied early this 
morning with eight. We shall have a conference to-day or 
to-morrow. 

The Bishop of London constantly rises in my estimation. 
He has replied admirably to Gladstone; closing with the 
words, ‘My dear sir, my intention is not to limit and re- 
strict the Church of Christ, but to enlarge it.’ He shows 
me a degree of kindness such as I hope will prove the 
foundation of a relation for life. He is the man of the 
Church in the present moment—wherefore ‘a reconstructive 
reformer.’ 


Friday, 5th November.—To-day Ihave been from nine to 


Ex. 50] THE NEW BISHOP'S TITLE. 380 


eleven with Gladstone, weighing and considering his 
anxious scruples; then, till half-past eleven, with the 
Bishop of London; then on the railway to Croydon, with 
the Archbishop at one o’clock, to obtain his decision as to 
the name of the Bishop, in order that the warrant may be 
made out this very evening; then to Gladstone, to fetch 
his ostensible letter ; from thence to London House and 
to the Foreign Office, where all was despatched in five 
minutes, with the help of Lord Canning; Lord Aberdeen 
was induced to state as within the compass of the Bishop’s 
title, Syria and Chaldea, Egypt and Abyssinia (that is, in 
so far as souls should there be found desirous of belonging 
to his diocese); then again to London House, and at last 
back to my room, to read despatches and Jetters; and now 
I must dress to dine at the Royal Society with Sir Robert 
Inglis, from six to half-past seven ; then to Exeter Hall— 
Spohr’s ‘ Last Judgment.’ The 5th of November for ever ! 

Saturday, 6th November, nine o'clock, evening.—This is the 
calm eve of the great, serious, solemnity of the Consecra- 
tion; the stars are brightly shining, after a day bright and 
clear. 

The admission of the Augsburg Confession has kindled 
such a flame, that a letter was addressed to the Arch- 
bishop saying, ‘It is yet time to stop; if your Grace does 
not, | and my friends will join the Church of Rome.’ To 
have overcome the scruples of Gladstone is a wonder! 
The clear purpose of the Puseyites to unite with Rome 
has caused England to incline towards the Protestant 
Churches. 


Bunsen to hie Wife. 
London: Thursday, 5 o'clock, 181n November. 


My Beovep !—The lot is fallen. 

Lord Aberdeen had invited me to a conference to-day, at 
two o’clock; when he proposed to me just what I should have 
desired to request, that the Consul-General (Hugh Rose) 


VOL. I. cc 


356 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. {1841 


should be directed to accompany Bishop Alexander to Jeru- 
salem, and the vessel, therefore, should touch at Beyrout. 
(I had confidentially suggested this to Lord Canning, and 
he had prepared the matter.) Further, Lord Aberdeen 
desired me to pronounce whether the Bishop had _ best 
depart at once; and then he communicated to me des- 
patches respecting the Druses, in 2 manner so confidential 
as to surprise me. . When I| was taking leave he said, ‘Well, 
we can congratulate ourselves that we aretokeep you!’ I 
assured him of my ignorance of any such decision, and he 
revealed to me thereupon that by the last courier, a week 
ago, the King had caused a communication to be made 
through the Ministry, that in the wish to appoint an envoy 
to London such as should entirely answer the inclinations 
of the Queen, he had chosen the form (‘indeed quite un- 
usual,’ said Lord Aberdeen) of laying before her three 
names for choice. ‘Your name was of the number, and we 
have asked for you. I thought that Schleinitz must have 
communicated this to you.’ I thereupon informed him that 
I had requested the King to allow of my resignation, &c.; 
we came into further conversation, and parted as if we had 
been ten years intimate. 

Thus it is decided ; for, as you know, I had always re- 
solved to follow the King’s decision; naturally, under the 
condition of his granting me the means of subsisting with- 
out a weight of care, and doing him honour. 

Tucsday, 23rd November, half-past five, afternoon.—I am 
just come from Prince Albert. Well may we exclaim, 
what next? The Queen requests that the King will come 
hither the middle of January, to stand godfather to the 
Prince of Wales at his baptism. She wishes that he should 
come in person, and, in short, has set her heart upon it. 
The Prince of Wales was shown to me by his father ; and 
all possible gracious demonstration was made towards my - 
self. I hope the King will come. I shall write directly. 


ZEr. 50] LETTERS TO HIS WIFE, 387 


Bunsen to his Wife. 
London: 24th November, 1841. 


See in the enclosed what affection is shown me here, and 
help me to pray that I become worthy of it. The goblet is 
beautiful: [a carved cocoa-nut, chased in silver, with the 
inscription—‘ From Lord Ashley, as a memorial of labour 
and zeal in common interests.’| .. . 

Of course I could not write to the King of the nomina- 
tion, as the whole matter (according to Count Maltzahn’s 
communication to Schleinitz) was to be kept a secret from 
me, as well as from Count Dénhoff at Munich, and Count 
Arnim at Paris, the two competitors. But when I write 
again to the King, the day after to-morrow perhaps, some 
mode will occur to me of telling him what I know. At 
any rate, as to that which to me is the principal matter, 
your journey hitherward, I see no uncertainty, except it 
should prove a total impossibility. . . . . This is the 
highest prize in the lottery—in the eyes of the world. 
You are witness that I have not stretched out my hand 
towards it... . 

Never was a choice, in the case of an Envoy, more 
honourable, considering who the persons are with whose 
names mine was associated. Lord Aberdeen’s expression 
to Schleinitz was, ‘ Nuus désirons qarder ce que nous avons.’ 
Schleinitz 18 willing to remain as Secretary, which is an 
immeasurable gain to me. I have further announced to 
the King, that the baptism of the Prince might be delayed 
till the 14th February, should he promise to come; the 
Queen desires not that he should send a representative, but 
that he should come in person (and she is right), and I have 
used urgency as much as can be; the plain Enylish being, 
that all—the Queen, Bishops, Ministers, and nation, will 
take it ill, will not forgive it, if he does not come. 

London : Monday, 6th December.—The King has written to 
me immediately after his return from Munich: ‘My heart 

¢c2 


383 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


draws me to the baptism of the Prince of Wales; but the 
deep mourning, inward and outward, of my poor Elise, and 
the cold season of the year, keep me back. Till the Queen 
has returned from Dresden I can say nothing. May God 
direct in this also! Meanwhile do you remain in England. 
God be with you !—F. W.’ This was written on the 29th ; 
on the evening of the 30th Abeken will have arrived with 
my strongly worded despatch. 

London: Thursday, 9th December.—The King does come! 
and, if necessary, in the middle of January. I am to go in 
an English man-of-war to fetch him, probably to Rotterdam. 

The articles are signed, to my entire satisfaction... . 


To Mre. Waddington. 
Windsor Castle: Tuesday, 28th December, 1841. 


My pearest MoruEer,—... I am at Windsor Castle—near 
the place where you lived in youthful years (although the 
house has disappeared, I make out the spot from your de- 
scription )—I am there, where I daresay you wished I might 
come when you gave me your Fanny, and, thank God! I am 
here without having sought the position ; on the contrary, 
after having begged leave to retire from public hfe. Thus 
I can feel thankful to be here, and I hope Iam so. Never 
was a reception more distinguished than I have here met 
with. I had my audience at eight o’clock, just before 
dinner ; ] was directed to conduct the Duchess of Kent to 
her place opposite the Queen, and then to place myself on 
the Queen’s right hand. I had been told by Brunnow, that 
I had no chance of a place but by the side of the Duchess, 
or of Prince Albert. In obeying the Queen’s command, I 
thought of what the Popes say when receiving peculiar 
honour—‘ Non mihi, sed Petro ’—‘ Not to me is this offered, 
but to St. Peter :’ well aware that it is the King’s present 
high position which has raised mine: wherefore I can really 
enjoy it much. The Queen is quite different from the 
representation I had heard of her; speaking with much 


JET. 50] HIS MINISTERIAL APPOINTMENT. 3e9 


animation, encouraging conversation, relishing fun. We 
passed a cheerful evening ; in playing at cards with the 
Queen, I won a new shilling of Her Majesty’s especial coin, 
which Fanny shall have to keep. 


Nothing documentary having been found to explain 
the cause of the lengthened delay and indecision of 
the King as to Bunsen’s definitive position, it is only 
possible to offer conjectures, which can but vaguely 
refer it to the conflicting influence of the various 
currents of opinion, all opposed from various motives 
to the establishment of Bunsen in any office which 
should fix him within the circle of the King’s habitual 
associates. The King himself had probably a strong 
inclination to contrive a sphere of activity for Bunsen 
at home, which should secure the possibility of in- 
tercourse such as His Majesty had always found 
peculiarly to his taste, and in which he had taken 
more pleasure than ever on the late occasion, when 
he had detained Bunsen much longer on the way to 
London in May, than would have been necessary for 
the business in hand. But such purposes had been 
regularly frustrated as soon as formed, by the real 
and actual difficulties of the case, as well as by the 
jealousies of the powers existing. The capabilities of 
Bunsen for a ministerial position were undisputed; 
but no one knew better than the King that he was 
unfit to enter into a bureaucratic system ; in short, 
to be foisted into the existing fabric: a fact which 
Bunsen (as his letters show) was apt to forget at 
times, but of which he ever and anon became con- 
vinced. 

The King devoutly desired improvement, reform, 


390 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN, [1841 


renovation, but could only conceive of such as should 
in every point proceed from the dictation of the 
Crown, and would, as little as his late honoured 
father, have conceded the exercise of a free hand 
even to the favoured deputy to whom he might 
commit the carrying out of his plans. The evidence 
of facts, and the positive testimony of Baron Bilow 
(the late Envoy) as to Bunsen’s peculiar qualifications 
for succeeding him in the transaction of affairs with 
England, combined with the King’s desire to favour 
the man of his choice, pointed to the vacant post of 
honour, the appointment to which had been further 
complicated by half-promises to two diplomatists of 
high standing. 

But although the object of many persons would 
have been attained by an exile, however honourable, 
from the King’s person, yet the prospect of such a 
distinction and such a triumph was too intolerable 
to those who had so long laboured to perpetuate 
Bunsen’s condition of depression, not to cause 
another effort to be made against him, by insisting 
with the King that in so aristocratic a country as 
England to depute a person without the advantages 
of birth or rank, as his Minister and representative, 
would be most unsuitable for His Majesty, and to- 
wards Queen Victoria almost an offence. Thus was 
the King brought to the singular and unprecedented 
course of offering a choice of three names to the 
Queen: and her unhesitating selection of Bunsen 
would seem to have been almost as much a surprise 
to the King as to those advisers who, in the desire 
to defeat the triumph of Bunsen, had but added 


Zr. 50] HIS PROPOSED RETIREMENT. 391 


brilliancy to it. There is even some ground for the 
supposition that the choice was not what the King 
intended and anticipated. His feelings were gratified 
by having done so much for Bunsen as to put the 
great diplomatic prize within his reach ; but he would 
have preferred his being, as it were, restored to his 
disposal, to be placed (it is not known how or where) 
closer to himself. 

The determination expressed by Bunsen in a letter 
to his wife, to make conditions, and only give way to 
the King’s will (if it should be to place him in 
London) ‘in case he would enable him to live free 
from care ’—was ill carried out, owing to two of his 
own marked peculiarities—an unconquerable aver- 
sion to having to insist, in pecuniary matters, even 
upon what was just and right—and an incapacity of 
contemplating a large sum in prospect as being 
otherwise than inexhaustible. 

It is necessary to comment upon Bunsen’s mention 
of a plan of retiring from public life and settling 
upon a country property, lest he should be suspected 
of using arts to influence the King—a practice 
entirely foreign to his character. It was a project 
most seriously entertained, and which filled many a 
page in his letters—falling in with his habitual desire 
to be independent of all business claims, and to 
devote his whole time and powers to his projected 
works and to his family. That it remained unexe- 
cuted was not matter of regret, for a country life 
would never have been endured by Bunsen for a per- 
manence. He delighted in it when measured by single 
days and hours during the fine season : but the inter- 


(892 MEMOIRS OF BARON BUNSEN. [1841 


course of minds, the conflict of opinions, was the 
element of life to him, and accustomed as he had 
been to the high tide of European interests in Rome 
and at Berlin (and afterwards in London), the com- 
parative slack-water of smaller centres of intellectual 
activity would have been at all times, and in a greater 
degree as years rolled on and experience increased, 
inadequate to his mental demands. 

A remark in his letter of September 22, when, com- 
paring the present moment with the year 1834, 
he qualifies the earlier period as ‘beset with difficul- 
ties, among others that wretched one, of pecuniary 
needs,’ must be noted as characteristic. An imme- 
diate pressure removed, the evil was supposed to 
be gone for ever! Only once in the course of his 
diplomatic life had he enjoyed the comfort of feeling 
quite at ease in the matter of expenditure, and that 
was at Berne,—not because the country was inexpen- 
sive, nor because the government allowance was large, 
but on account of the simplicity of the mode of life, 
and the absence of all demands on the part of society, 
then remarkable ir that centre of Switzerland. But 
Bunsen’s spirits revived, and admitted not of any 
gloomy anticipations in the new phase of existence 
to be entered upon in the year 1842. 


END OF THE FIRST VOLUME. 


Spottiawcede & Co., Printere, Hew Street Square and 90 Partioment Street. 


Pe) 


