
Presented to the 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 

by the 

ONTARIO LEGISLATIVE 
LIBRARY 

1980 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 



94;)27 

FRIENDS AND 
MEMORIES 



ONTARIO 



94927 

MAUDE VALfiRIE WHITE 



LONDON 
EDWARD ARNOLD 

1914 

\A.ll rights reserved] 



J 



AFFECTIONATELY 
DEDICATED 

TO 

MY BROTHERS 
AND SISTERS 
AND FRIENDS 



PREFACE 

A SHORT time ago, during one of my periodical visits to 
London, a friend asked me if I had never thought of 
writing my memoirs. I was very much astonished, for 
it had never occurred to me that anyone would care to 
read anything I had to say about myself and my extremely 
erratic life. And I couldn't help thinking of a little story 
that had just been told to me by the landlady of the rooms 
where I was staying. She was one of the kindest and 
nicest women I ever came across, and was often extremely 
amusing. This was her story. 

In former days she kept a country hotel, and on one 
occasion some young man of the neighbourhood engaged 
her dining-room for the purpose of giving a dinner to the 
local cricket team. It was a very grand dinner, she said. 
When, after spending a good deal of money on various 
wines, the youthful host finally called for some expensive 
liqueur, she frankly protested against his extravagance. 
" I was 'orrified. I says to 'im, 4 Don't you order nothing 
more,' I says ; ' you've 'ad as much as is good for you ; 
the lot of you 'as 'ad enough.' Bless your heart, ma'am, 
they no more didn't want that there stuff than a cat 
don't want side-pockets, and I just told them so." 

My kind landlady's motherly and protective instinct 
was evidently aroused, and really I also began to feel 
motherly and protective towards the friends who might 
think it was their solemn duty to wade through my 
memoirs, should they ever find a publisher. But after a 
few days I began to consider the matter. 

" After all," I thought, " people sometimes do really 
want the most extraordinary things. I once knew a 
shopkeeper in Sicily whose stock in trade consisted almost 
exclusively of wooden life-sized gorillas and large china 



viii PREFACE 

babies slumbering peacefully in monster shells. These 
articles were evidently in demand, for he was making a 
small fortune out of them. "Who knows," I thought, 
" whether cats, if approached really tactfully on the sub- 
ject of side-pockets, might not respond to the suggestion 
with passionate enthusiasm ? " 

After a day or two, it seemed to me that nothing was 
more likely, and that as there were plenty of two-legged 
cats in the world who would be only too delighted to pick 
my literary side-pockets (to pieces) it would be quite a 
pity not to give them the chance of doing so ! 

M. V. W. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 



CHAPTER I. 

I WAS born in Normandy, in an old house on the Route 

d'Arc, near Dieppe, on the 23rd of June in the year 

Of course I have not the slightest objection to revealing 
my age what middle-aged woman ever has ? But I 
had hardly written down the date when I remembered 
having read somewhere that the greatest proof of genius 
is to know just when and where to use the pruning knife. 
So I decided to avoid all useless detail. To harp on so 
personal a subject seemed to me positively indelicate. 
So I just ran my pen through the date. Certainly virtue 
is its own reward : somehow I seemed to breathe more 
easily after making this little act of self-sacrifice. 

Well, then, I was born in France, and during the first 
years of my childhood I had every reason to bitterly 
regret the fact. I was nicknamed " Froggie," which I hated, 
and was repeatedly told by my small brothers and cousins 
that I would run away as a matter of course should I ever 
find myself on a field of battle, which of course was ex- 
tremely likely. They knew for a positive fact that French- 
men always ran away, whatever happened. Everyone 
knew that. If one had a grain of self-respect, one was 
born in England or in South America. That is what 
they had done. Of course England was best, but it was 
so grand to have sailed across half the world before one 
was eight that it came to more or less the same thing. I 
hadn't even managed to be born in Brittany, in which 
case I would at all events have been entitled to call myself 
a Britain. " Soyons net," as they say in France, and let 
me at once admit that I began life as a miserable French 
i 



2 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

failure and a rank outsider. No entente cordiale was 
possible on this subject I had even had a French nurse. 
She was naturally " on my side." She said she couldn't 
understand how civilised people could give so dreadful 
a name to her poor baby. " Voyons, est-ce que c'est 
possible d'appeler un enfant ' Maudit' ! " That was her 
way of pronouncing " Maudie." 

It seems that I had quite long black hair when I was 
born. Rose (my nurse) looked upon it as a sign of good 
fortune and, I suppose, must have refused to cut it off. 
Apparently no one else dared approach a new-born baby 
with a pair of scissors, and a coiffeur was actually sent for, 
who heroically, and without running away, though he was 
a Frenchman, performed the task to the despair of Rose 
and the satisfaction of everyone else. 

It certainly was a very cosmopolitan world into which 
I was ushered on my first birthday. My parents had just 
arrived from South America with their five elder children, 
who spoke nothing but Spanish. A German governess 
had been engaged for them by an old friend of my mother, 
Madame de Laboulaye (after whom I was called Valerie). 
Madame de Laboulaye was the wife of Edouard de 
Laboulaye, a very well-known literary man, the head of the 
College de France, and the author of Paris en Amerique 
and Le Prince Caniche, a political satire, which had an 
immense success at the time it was published. He was 
also a Senator. My mother spoke French perfectly. 
Though born in England, she went to live in France before 
she was a year old, and lived there till her marriage with 
my father, with whom she went out to Chile. My grand- 
father, Captain John White, was a naval officer, who on 
retiring from active service was appointed English Consul 
in Valparaiso. Chile was a sort of El Dorado in those 
days, and on leaving school my father joined him, and 
went into business there. My grandfather was the son of 
Lucy Nagle. She and the great Edmund Burke were 
first cousins, the children of a brother and a sister. Burke 
was very much older than herself, and after the death of 
her parents she went to live with him as his ward. She 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 3 

was a Catholic, but my grandfather was educated as a 
Protestant. It was his father's religion. In those days 
Catholics were not obliged, as they are at present, to make 
it a sine qua non to have their children baptized in the 
Catholic Church in the event of marrying someone of a 
different religion. My grandfather was extremely hand- 
some. Like Henry vin., he was " one of the greatest 
widowers that ever lived." He married four times, but 
as far as I know he did not decapitate his wives in his 
leisure moments ! One of his daughters married three 
times. And then people ask me why I am a spinster ! 
Of course the reason is obvious. I am a person with some 
idea of proportion, and an overpowering sense of duty has 
compelled me to restore the balance of things as far as lies 
in my power. My father was the son of his first wife. 
She was of Bohemian origin, and like so many people of 
Slav blood most members of her family were very artistic. 
The first to settle in England was a soldier. His name was 
Von Rinagel. He came over to England in connection 
with the Prince Charles Edward Stuart expedition in 1745. 
He fought at Prestonpans, and was imprisoned both at 
Stirling and in Dover Castle. He married, and became 
an English subject, and from that time spelt his name 
Reinagle. His son, Philip, and his grandson, Richard 
Ramsay Reinagle, were both well-known painters, and 
both were R.A.'s. One of the Reinagles was a very 
beautiful violoncello player, but he died quite young. 

My mother's father, Lieutenant Daniel Harrington, 
was also a naval man and an Irishman. He had the 
honour of serving under Lord Nelson on board the Victory, 
and fought at the battle of Trafalgar. Once when I was 
staying with my uncle, Frederick Harrington, I saw my 
grandfather's diary, a tiny book, in which he had written 
a short account of the battle of Trafalgar immediately 
after it had taken place. I have never forgotten the last 
words, though I read them so many years ago : 

" And I can safely say there isn't a man on board this 
ship that wouldn't gladly have laid down his life for his 
lordship." 



4 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

It was such a queer little book ! Facing this account 
of one of the most celebrated battles in the world was a 
list of clothes he had sent to the wash and the dates of his 
last letters to my grandmother ! 

After the battle of Trafalgar my grandmother received 
the official news of his death. She refused to believe it : 
she would not take the pension offered to her, nor did she 
wear mourning or put her children into mourning ! She 
said she felt it was not true. She had had a dream just 
after the battle in which she saw him sleeping on the deck 
of a ship that was not the Victory. And she was perfectly 
right. There had been a mistake my grandfather had 
written to her immediately after the battle and had given 
the letter to someone going back to England who never 
posted it. Almost immediately after the battle he was 
sent to the Dardanelles on another ship, and quite a long 
time went by before she received the good news of his being 
alive and well. She went down to Portsmouth when the 
Victory came home, and I've heard her describe the whole 
scene. She was over eighty, and I was a tiny child, 
but I remember how excited she got over it. She de- 
scribed it splendidly, and I can still see her before me, her 
eyes blazing with enthusiasm as she told us all about it. 

My grandfather fought in several battles besides 
Trafalgar, but he died a lieutenant for all that. Pro- 
motion was not rapid in those days. A friend of his, 
Sir Robert Arbuthnot, who was indignant at the way 
he had been treated, actually managed to bring his case 
before the late Queen Victoria, who wrote on the petition 
presented to her : " This case merits consideration." 
Even in spite of that, nothing was done for him. Yet we 
have in our possession a testimonial given to him by 
Lord Nelson and signed by him, giving him the very 
highest character. One of my aunts (who was already 
eighteen years old when my mother was born) once 
showed this paper to Lady Nelson. It was a little worn 
and crumpled. She said to her, " Ah ! some day you 
will all be very proud of this little piece of paper ; you 
mustn't let it fall to pieces;" and then she took it from 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 5 

my aunt and gummed it on to a lace handkerchief of her 
own. 

And she was quite right. We are proud of that piece 
of paper. Who wouldn't be proud of it if it belonged to 
them ? I hardly dared touch it when it was shown to me 
the paper was quite yellow and the ink was faded, but 
the writing was perfectly legible, and so was the celebrated 
and beloved signature. 

Sir Robert at the end of one of his conversations with 
my grandfather said to him, " Harrington, you are 
getting very bald." My grandfather, who wasn't an 
Irishman for nothing, answered, "Well, you can hardly 
wonder at that, considering all the men who have walked 
over my head ! " 

Before I was a year old we all left Dieppe and came to 
settle in England. My father had taken a house in 
Staffordshire, and we lived there till I was seven years old. 
The first thing I can remember is Christmas Eve at 
Chapel Ash that was the name of our house. I was 
between five and six years old, but I can still see the 
beautiful glittering Christmas tree that stood on a large 
table in the middle of the drawing-room. It was 
brilliantly lighted with wax candles, and was hung, 
German fashion, with apples, nuts, and oranges wrapped 
up in silver and gold paper. On the table beneath lay the 
gifts intended for each child. I have forgotten all the 
presents I received that Christmas, with one exception 
it was a book called Old Gingerbread, and was bound in 
light green. No present ever pleased me so much as a 
book, for I read both English and German quite easily 
before I was six years old. I owed this entirely to our 
German governess, Fraulein Marie Stieffel. She came to 
us shortly after I was born, and stayed with us till I was 
ten years old. The grown-ups of the family called her 
" Mademoiselle," but she was always " Mel " to all of us 
children. I remember my delight when I realised that the 
lovely green book was to be mine ; and though the 
presents were still being distributed, I went off into a 
corner and began reading it there and then. I don't 



6 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

believe any child ever loved reading more than I did. 
Everything was grist that came to my mill. German 
fairy-tales were what I enjoyed most Grimm, Hans 
Andersen, etc. But the Arabian Nights and Robinson 
Crusoe were also great favourites, and any and every book 
of travel that I could get hold of. I read The Discovery 
of America in German, in a child's edition, and I think it 
awoke in me the love of travel which has never left me. 
There was magic to me in the very sound of the names of 
far-away countries. Certain of them set my imagination 
galloping ! My favourite lesson was geography. We 
had an immense globe in the schoolroom which I looked 
upon as a delightful friend who was always suggesting 
thrilling and exciting adventures. I loved turning it 
round till I came to the Pacific Ocean, and wondered what 
the little islands were like with which it was dotted. 
I dreamed over that particular part of the globe and 
gazed at it till I conjured up visions of delight ! Visions 
of sapphire seas on which floated strange canoes rowed 
by wonderful people dressed in very little ; visions of 
marvellous coral reefs and golden sands on which lay the 
loveliest shells waiting to be picked up by lucky little 
savages of my own age; visions of cocoa-nut trees and 
bread-fruit trees, beneath which terrific cannibals sat 
during the heat of the day meditating on the delights of 
little-boy chops and little-girl cutlets ! This last vision 
was certainly very alarming, but even the awful idea of 
being served up as a succulent entre*e to a cannibal king, in 
the event of visiting his tropical realms, did not really 
quench my longing to start at once for the South Sea 
Islands. 

Just about that time Mel taught me how to knit. 
Perched up on a high chair, I learned to make socks. I 
sat at the same table where my elder sisters did their 
lessons and picked up information, whilst Mel picked up 
the stitches I dropped at every moment. Sometimes I 
had to read the book from which they did their dictation. 
I felt very grand dictating to my elders and betters. I 
remember a great scene which once took place in the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 7 

schoolroom. My three sisters, whose ages varied from 
sixteen to thirteen, had just had a history lesson. They 
had all answered the questions put to them to Mel's entire 
satisfaction with the exception of Annie, the youngest of 
the three. She hated lessons. This time she wasn't able 
to make a single satisfactory answer. Mel was very 
angry, but was almost struck dumb when my sister 
said dramatically, " Mel ! the lesson has been said, 
and well said. What does it matter to you who said 
it?" 

At the venerable age of seven I went to Germany with 
my mother and the rest of the family. Mel accompanied 
us, but my father was obliged to remain in England on 
business. We went down the Rhine, which I thoroughly 
enjoyed. I was delighted to be travelling at last. Then 
we made straight for Dresden, where my elder sisters were 
to be " finished." As I was hardly " begun," I was sent 
to Heidelberg with the faithful Mel. Heidelberg was her 
home, and I spent two years there with her and her kind 
old father. I always called him " Der Vater." We lived 
in a quaint old house at the corner of the Hauptstrasse. 
There was a stork's nest on the roof. It was still there 
when I passed through Heidelberg on my way to Ober- 
ammergau some years ago. 

I had rather a lonely life in the old house, and for a 
long time knew no other children. How well I remember 
the sitting-room in which I used to do my lessons. There 
was a window in the corner of the room which was ap- 
proached by a high step, so that when one sat in the 
window-seat one was slightly raised above the level of the 
rest of the room and was able to get a peep into the 
Parade Platz, and to look right down the Hauptstrasse as 
well. There was a draper's shop just opposite our house, 
and his shop windows towards Christmas were the joy of 
my life. He used to fill them with tarlatan ball-dresses 
which looked to me like the dresses fairies and princesses 
would wear. One of these tarlatan dresses was a lovely 
green, and I thought it looked like the sea, and began to 
weave all sorts of fancies around it. I peopled the folds 




the Trojans simply and solely because they "P 
Asia Minor, one of my beloved far-away countriejl 
on I lost my heart with equal fervour to Gree<?fN 
always losing my heart to someone or something 
was a child, but I generally lost it most hopff * 
beautiful places. 

I really adored Heidelberg. During the twoj I 
lived there we went for long walks every cHr 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 9 

mountains that surround the little town are lovely. They 
are not high, but they are covered to the summit with 
beautiful trees. The woods are full of lilies of the valley 
and wild strawberries. One has to be careful not to 
tread them underfoot in some places. To stand high up 
amongst the fragrant firs and to look down on the orchards 
of cherry-trees in full bloom is a sight of unforgettable 
beauty. I remember saying to my governess one day, 
" Mel, which would cost most, a view like this, or a 
grand piano ? " I really didn't know which I would 
rather possess for my very own. To this day, the smell 
of lilies of the valley carries me back to the days of my 
childhood, and suggests to my mind innocence and beauty 
as nothing else ever does. I honestly believe that were I 
on the verge of committing a murder and were a bunch 
of lilies of the valley to be put into my hand, I would 
instantaneously become incapable of hurting even a black 
beetle ! 

Mel was a first-rate musician, and played the piano 
beautifully. The first time I remember really appre- 
ciating music was on one winter afternoon. I was alone 
in the sitting-room, trying to do my lessons, perched up on 
my favourite window-seat. In reality I was listening to 
the trio my governess was playing in the next room with a 
violinist and 'cello player, friends of hers, who used some- 
times to come over from Mannheim to make music with 
her. I don't know what they were playing, it was pro- 
bably something classical, but it began to affect me very 
strangely. I felt horribly sad, but I wasn't crying. I 
was simply longing for something, but I didn't know what. 
After a while they left off playing, and Mel came into the 
sitting-room to see what I was doing. Evidently I 
didn't look quite normal, for she asked me what was the 
matter. I said in a choking voice, " I think I have a sore 
throat." I hadn't a sore throat, but it was the first time 
I had ever had a lump in my throat, and I didn't know 
what it meant then. 

One day I got into a terrible scrape ! 

Mel had gone out, and during her absence I conceived 



10 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

the idea of giving a concert in the Eckzimmer, the corner 
drawing-room, into which I was never allowed to set foot, 
because it was the home of the sacrosanct " Fliigel," on 
which I was only allowed to play when I had a music 
lesson. The programme was to consist exclusively of my 
own compositions, Op. 1 and Op. 2. 

These two noble works consisted of about four bars 
each. Each piece, if I remember rightly, had the same 
bass ! I can't say it showed much imagination, for it 

consisted exclusively of one chord jSP^j^j repeated at 

intervals. The melodies were no doubt equally interesting, 
but I have forgotten them. 

Of course there can be no concert without an audience. 
But I soon managed that. Tante Malchen, Mel's old 
aunt, lived in the same house, and I went and retrieved 
her in her little flat and escorted her triumphantly to 
the drawing-room, where she was asked to wait, while I 
went in search of the cook. I couldn't think of anyone 
else. When both ladies were in their seats, I climbed up 
on to the music stool and began to play. 

The concert lasted for about two minutes, with long 
intervals between each piece. The audience was more 
than kind, and I was much applauded. The cook's 
enthusiasm knew no bounds. Tante Malchen was sym- 
pathy in propria persona. Just as the congratulations 
were pouring in, the door was suddenly flung open, and 
in walked Mel ! There was a regular scene. Tante 
Malchen took my part like a brick, and the cook vanished 
like a beautiful dream, whilst Mel accused the old lady 
of encouraging me in disobedience. When it transpired 
that I had actually charged them a farthing each for ad- 
mittance, Mel's wrath rose like puff paste. In vain I 
pleaded that it wouldn't have been a real concert if they 
hadn't paid for their tickets. Mel refused to listen to 
my excuses. She might have forgiven the invasion of 
the sacred drawing-room, but what she couldn't get 
over was the revolting fact that I had done Tante Malchen 
and the cook out of a Kreutzer each. It was evidently 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 11 

the beginning of the end the dtgringolade of my whole 
being ! She considered that the white flower of my 
hitherto blameless life was faded and smirched and only 
fit for the dust-heap. Tante Malchen was purple with 
indignation. She was of opinion that since Mel's moral 
standard rose to Himalayan heights, it was quite im- 
possible to expect any child of eight years old to scale 
them. While they were quarrelling over me, I followed 
the cook's example and shot like forked lightning out of 
the room. I can't remember how it all finished, but one 
thing is very sure. It was my first and last recital in 
Heidelberg, and Op. 1 and Op. 2 are lost for ever to the 
world. 

In order to encourage me in habitual truthfulness, 
Mel made me read and ponder over the story of Ananias 
and Sapphira, till I literally shook in my shoes every time 
I was asked a question for fear of tampering with the 
truth and tumbling down dead. When I inked my 
fingers one day she said, whilst she scrubbed them 
with pumice-stone, " Those ink stains are like the 
stains of sin, very easy to put on, and very difficult 
to get off." I was tremendously impressed and rather 
frightened. 

But on the whole I was very happy in Heidelberg, 
and I have no doubt I richly deserved the punishments 
I sometimes got. Mel was honestly devoted to me, 
though her anxiety to do her best by me made her a 
little too severe at times. 

When I had been more than usually wicked I was 
sent to bed in the middle of the day, to repent of my 
misdeeds between the sheets. I don't think I ever did. 
But I felt fearfully humiliated at retiring to rest in broad 
daylight and without feeling in the least sleepy. On one 
occasion, as I lay in bed, I happened to put my hand to 
my back, and for the first time in my life felt my shoulder- 
blade. I was terrified. My ideas of anatomy were 
distinctly vague. I thought I had begun to grow a 
hump ! I kept this hideous suspicion to myself and 
suffered agonies. Every now and again I furtively put 



12 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

my hand to my back to see if the dreadful bone was still 
there. Yes, there it was, just in the same place and 
bigger than ever. Of that I was positively certain. At 
last it seemed to me it was taking the shape of a leg of 
mutton, and I went through an episode of absolute 
despair. It is all very fine to laugh now, but never shall 
I forget the silent torture that I endured. 

One day Mel gave me a beautiful little bed for my 
doll. When Easter came round she gave me several 
Easter eggs real eggs painted blue and green and red. 
She also gave me a dear little hare with long ears, made 
of sugar. I loved that hare. But those hard-boiled eggs 
set me thinking. I secretly determined to raise chickens 
out of them. But how? After a while, I had a real 
inspiration. When no one was looking I put the whole 
lot into my doll's bed, and tucked them comfortably up. 
Then I waited excitedly for the result. I constantly 
examined the bed when no one was looking, to see if they 
had arrived, and when I found nothing, waited patiently 
till the next day. I waited for a week or two. One 
morning, to my horror and disappointment, I found the 
doll's bed swarming, not with chickens, but with dreadful 
little worms ! I nearly had a fit. 

How I hated some of the German food to which I was 
introduced ! There was one dish which I utterly abhorred. 
The very name was enough," Schweinefleisch und Sauer- 
kraut" (pig's flesh and sour cabbage). When I saw it 
being brought to table my blood ran cold. I knew I would 
have to get it down somehow, for I was never allowed 
to make a fuss over anything and was expected to eat 
everything that was set before me, without making any 
remarks. Sometimes I protested, and once or twice, 
backed up by " der Vater " I came off victorious. He 
was a dear, kind old man, and I was very fond of him. 
Often, after the " Abendessen," a nondescript meal that 
was served at about seven o'clock, he used to lie on 
the sofa and tell me stories. I nestled up to him, and 
never allowed him to pause for breath. " Reinecke 
Fuchs " was the favourite story, and he told it very well, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 13 

as far as I was able to judge. He certainly held me spell- 
bound from start to finish. 

I thought that Mel and " der Vater " and I were going 
to live for ever and ever in the old house with the stork's 
nest on the roof, and was quite taken aback when one day 
a letter arrived from my mother saying they were all 
returning to England and that Mel and I were to join 
them in London. 

One of my aunts was returning from South America 
with her husband and children, and my mother wished to 
be in England to receive her. My uncle was very ill 
dying, in fact. 

Mel said I was to write a letter of condolence to my 
aunt. I was in despair. I really felt life wasn't worth 
living with such a task in store ! I couldn't imagine what 
to say. I didn't know my uncle, and hadn't the faintest 
idea what my aunt was like. There was a regular battle 
between us I felt the whole thing was utterly beyond 
me. From the very moment I was told that I was to 
write that letter, my mind became a complete blank. 
The proverbial village idiot was a Leonardo da Vinci 
compared with me. There I sat, staring vacantly at the 
sheet of note-paper and feeling perfectly miserable. 

At last Mel consented to help me. It wound up by her 
dictating the whole epistle ! At the end she wished me to 
say, " God help you in your trouble ! " But here I struck. 
I laid down my pen and refused to go on. 

14 Do as I tell you," said Mel. 

" No," I said. " I'm not going to say that." 

" And why not, I should like to know ? " 

" Because," I answered firmly, "it's so frightfully 
grown-up." 

Mel finally gave in, and I was allowed to finish the 
letter more naturally if less piously. 

My last recollection of Heidelberg is a concert given 
by the celebrated violinist Joachim. I was taken to it as 
a great treat, and wore a new silk dress for the occasion. 
I also wore a grand little opera-cloak trimmed with swans- 
down. To tell the truth, I was so taken up with the 



14 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

unusual splendour of my appearance that I hardly listened 
to the music. It is an awful confession, but I am obliged 
to make it. 

Shortly after the concert Mel and I packed up our 
trunks and started for England. I loved Heidelberg, but the 
idea of another journey was delightful to me. We were 
not going straight to England. We were first going to the 
Tyrol to see some of Mel's relations. 

I was just nine years old when I said good-bye to the 
kind old " Vater " and the stork's nest and the quaint old 
house, to the fascinating shop window with its fairy-like 
dresses, to the Parade Platz where I had so often met 
students whose faces were scarred with wounds, but 
whom I secretly admired nevertheless, and above all to 
the beloved and beautiful mountains where I had spent 
so many happy hours dreaming the happy, innocent dreams 
of happy, innocent childhood. A new life was beginning 
for me. I was to live again with my own people, I would 
have brothers and sisters and cousins to play with. This 
thought alone filled me with delight, and it was a very 
happy, excited little creature who again started on its 
travels one beautiful summer day many many years ago. 



CHAPTER II. 

I DON'T remember any of the details of our departure from 
Heidelberg, or of our journey to the Tyrol. But I do 
recollect arriving at a chalet and being shown into a room 
quite unlike any I had ever seen before. There was no 
paper on the walls, and everything in the room seemed to 
be made of wood. It looked extraordinarily clean and 
tidy. A short, stout lady of middle age was waiting there 
to receive us. She had a kind, nice face. This was Frau 
Sohm, Mel's married sister. Her husband, who was 
called " Der Sohm " by his wife and Mel, was a tall, dark, 
good-looking man, far more like an Italian than a German. 
He was so good-looking that I fell a victim on the spot. 
Nothing beautiful ever left me indifferent, so it was 
not likely that the handsomest man I had ever seen should 
make no impression on me, although I was only nine years 
old ! Fortunately for me, he seemed fond of children, so I 
suffered no disillusion. 

One day someone suggested an excursion into the 
mountains. I was in the seventh heaven of delight. The 
idea of a whole day among the pines with " der Sohm" 
in attendance seemed to me the height of bliss. Frau 
Sohm and Mel were not the least in the way, they simply 
ceased to exist from the moment we set out ! 

How I enjoyed that splendid summer day ! What I 
remember best is the wild, though shallow, mountain 
stream up which we wandered, jumping from stone to 
stone across the amber-coloured water. We were shut 
out from the rest of the world by the pine-covered moun- 
tains that rose on either side. This was life ! Life full 
of tremendous possibilities. One's foot might slip ; 

one might fall backwards into the foaming waters ; one 

15 



16 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

might, on the other hand, be rescued from the jaws of 
death by " der Sohm " which would indeed more than 
compensate for any amount of horrors. The fact that 
the water was so shallow that even the most suicidally 
inclined dwarf could not have succeeded in wetting more 
than his ankles did not in the least disturb my sense of 
adventure. Like all imaginative children, actual circum- 
stances did not in the least interfere with my dreams. 
Impossibilities were the rule, not the eternal exception ! 
How often had I not already transformed a mere brook 
into the great Amazon River, on which there floated a 
solitary canoe, with myself inside, wandering through 
mysterious tropical regions. A few hills became the 
Andes for me in the twinkling of an eye ; cats became 
tigers ; dogs became gazelles ; and Heaven alone knows 
what " der Sohm " became during that memorable picnic ! 
In any case, he was the magician who conjured up that 
glorious day, which I shall always remember as one of the 
happiest of my childhood. 

The rest of our visit to Dornbirn has completely 
faded from my memory. I can't even remember saying 
good-bye to anyone, though I probably shed "una fur- 
tiva lagrima " on parting with the beloved and black- 
bearded Sohm who had been so kind to me. But I 
quite forgot all about him and everyone else in my dis- 
appointment at Schaffhausen, where I had been taken, as 
part of my education, to see the Falls of the Rhine. 

Were these the celebrated Falls ? Was it this mere 
perpendicular sheet of water that everyone made such a 
fuss about ? I was positively indignant. If I was asked 
to believe that this was the Rhine, which I had seen only 
two years ago flowing peacefully through beautiful vine- 
covered hills crowned with ruined castles, then I found 
it far easier to believe that Mel had taken leave of her 
senses, or that she had cast her principles to the winds 
in an overwhelming desire to go one better than the 
hitherto much maligned Ananias and Sapphira. What 
I had expected to see was the Rhine, in its entire length 
and breadth, like some gigantic fluid personality falling 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES It 

in an ecstasy at the feet of Mel and myself towards four 
o'clock, as we sat at a little table in the neighbourhood 
drinking coffee and eating Zwieback. 

I now know what the American lady felt like when 
she saw the celebrated Venus of the Louvre for the first 
time. I now know why she whispered through her dis- 
appointed nose, " Daughter ! if that's the Venus of Milo, 
excuse me ! " 

Later in the evening we went for a row on the lake 
which somewhat consoled me, and next morning we 
started for England, via Ostend, where we spent a happy 
day on the beautiful beach. I bathed in the sea, and as 
I waded out and felt the waves rippling over my little 
bare legs, I thought how nice it would be to go on just 
like that till I reached England. I never thought how 
soon I would be out of my depth and that I hadn't the 
faintest idea how to swim. I never worried about in- 
significant details in those days. I always thought, 
" Something nice is sure to happen, and everything will 
be all right." And I am not at all sure that I don't feel 
very much the same now. The delicious blue sea isn't 
the only element, alas ! in which one is out of one's depth 
before one knows where one is. Yet again and again, 
when I have been sinking out of mine, after the first 
moments of distress I have certainly heard that happy 
little whisper, " Something nice is sure to happen, and 
everything will be all right." 

And even if one is mistaken all along the line, as far 
as this world is concerned, still, who would not be the 
happy optimist who, after a thousand disappointments, is 
convinced, even on his death-bed, perhaps especially 
on his death-bed, that " something nice is sure to happen, 
and everything will be all right" ? 

After Ostend we went to London, where we stayed 
for a few days, during which I was introduced to no end 
of new relations, including several Spanish-speaking 
cousins from South America who had just arrived in 
England. I also renewed acquaintance with my own 
people, from whom I had been separated for some time, 



18 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

though on two never-to-be-forgotten occasions I had 
been to see them in Dresden. During the two years I 
spent with Mel in Heidelberg, my mother lived in a 
large and charming flat in the Ostra Alice with the seven 
other children, her mother, and eldest sister. I loved 
being with them. They all seemed so happy. The flat 
was so pretty, so cosy and bright. Such a lot of inter- 
esting things seemed always to be going on there. We 
were such a larg>e party that every meal seemed like a 
small festivity. Dresden is a very cosmopolitan place. 
At least it certainly was in those days, and my people 
had friends of many nationalities. My mother had had 
introductions to several charming German families who 
had houses both in Dresden and in the country. This 
gave her a real insight into German life, which of course 
was very interesting to one who had never been in the 
country before. The best friend of my eldest brother 
was an American boy with whom he had fraternised at 
school. During the first year of their stay in Dresden, 
two of my sisters attended a famous girls' school which 
was run by a clever Frenchwoman, Madame Jung ; there 
they became acquainted with other children from every 
quarter of the globe, and their favourite friend was a 
charming and beautiful young Russian girl. Of course 
all these different people brought great colour and variety 
into their lives. 

Herr Fritz Spindler, a very popular composer of light 
music and a celebrated pianoforte teacher, was a great 
source of interest to me. Never before had I seen a real 
live composer. All those whose names were familiar 
to me were lying in their graves. He gave music lessons 
to my sisters, who used to practise with all the enthusiasm 
of youth the gay " Husarenritts " and " Bagatelles " and 
" Cascades " which he gave them in endless succession. 
Now and again they learned a sonata. Two of them 
played really well, and I think he was rather proud of 
them. 

My eldest sister was supposed to be " out " ; the 
other two were " in and out." BuJt they all seemed 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 19 

to me equally grown-up and of equal importance, especi- 
ally while their portraits were being painted by one of 
the Court painters. When they used to go off to his 
studio dressed in lovely white dresses, after having had 
their hair waved and curled into unusual splendour, I 
thought they were the most beautiful and enviable 
human beings on earth. A lady's-maid called Emilia 
seemed always to be turning out pretty dresses for one 
or the other of them. They even went to dances and 
coffee-parties. They really were frightfully grand. 

But in my opinion the climax was reached when my 
mother gave a ball followed by a delicious supper, which 
was smelt, but, alas ! not tasted, by the younger members 
of the family. It was attended by a great many grandly 
dressed ladies and smart officers in uniform. The loveliest 
dance music went on all night, right into the small hours, 
after which I was firmly convinced that the flat in Ostra 
Alice was the hub of the world ! I certainly thought my 
brothers and sisters far nicer than the skipping-ropes 
and hoops which were my only companions in Heidel- 
berg. Instead of solitary walks with Mel, I used to go 
with the younger children to the Grosse Garten, where we 
would play for hours together, and where we once made 
a quite unexpected acquaintance. One day not knowing 
what o'clock it was, my little brother Harry, who was 
about five years of age, ran up to an old gentleman who 
was passing by to ask him if he would tell him the time. 
The old gentleman consulted his watch, and was very 
kind and friendly to the little fellow. What was our 
surprise when the moment afterwards someone came up 
and told us that my small brother had had the honour 
of talking with the King of Saxony. The nurse was 
thrilled ! and so were we. 

I wonder if a quaint custom still exists in Dresden 
which was in full swing forty or fifty years ago ? There 
used to be public balls for the people which the men 
and maid servants attended with the greatest gusto. 
As the maids did not like to go alone, it became the 
fashion to hire a man chaperon ! A father was dirt 



20 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

cheap, so was an uncle ; a brother could be had for a 
mere song, a cousin cost a good deal more. A friend 
was downright expensive, and a lover well, one had 
to save up for weeks to be able to afford such a luxury, 
and when one finally appeared at the ball, attended by 
a swain whose professional duty it was to make love till 
the echoes of the last waltz had died away, one simply 
held the floor. The other unfortunate maids who were 
accompanied by mere blood relations looked on with 
covetous and hungry eyes and wished they were dead ! 
It was a glorious triumph. 

I must say those holidays in Dresden were the joy of 
my life. Sometimes we used to go to the Griine Gewolbe 
to look at the treasures there ; sometimes we went to 
the picture gallery to look at the lovely Raphael Madonna ; 
and once we all went out to the Bastei, in Saxon Switzer- 
land, where we roamed about the lovely hills all day. It 
was heavenly ! I was miserable when the time came 
for returning to Heidelberg. I remember a wonderful 
hamper that arrived for me one Christmas from Dresden. 
It was crammed full of lovely presents from all my dear 
ones. How sadly I unpacked the things, and how 
passionately I longed to be with them all, though kind 
Mel had provided me with a beautiful little Christmas tree, 
and had done all she could think of to make me happy. 

Now, however, my loneliness was a thing of the past, 
and I was once again a member of a large and happy 
family. My father had taken a charming old place in 
Staffordshire Pendeford Hall ; there was a capital 
school at Brewood, a village about four miles away, 
where he intended sending my two eldest brothers ; and 
Mel was to look after the education of the three younger 
members of the family Harry, Emmie, and myself. 

We all loved Pendeford ; and its crowning glory was 
that it possessed a ghost ! a ghost that was actually 
seen on one occasion by one of my sisters. I can't say I 
am a believer in ghosts, but I am bound to admit that 
several things occurred which were never satisfactorily 
accounted for. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 21 

I remember one of these occurrences perfectly. The 
nursery at Pendeford was shared at one time by the three 
youngest members of the family Emmie, Harry, and 
myself. One night we three children were startled and 
alarmed by a violent and sudden noise. We thought 
someone was throwing large stones at our windows. At 
last the noise grew so loud and so threatening that we 
rushed in terror out of the room, crying for help at the 
top of our voices. At the same time one of my sisters, 
who happened to be in her room close by, and who had 
also heard this extraordinary noise, ran out on to the 
landing, equally startled and frightened. My mother 
and the butler, who had heard nothing except our cries, 
were the next to appear on the scene. They found us 
shivering with fright on the landing, and all of us sobbed 
out the same story : " There is someone outside throwing 
big stones at the nursery windows." My mother tried 
to comfort us by telling us she was sure it was only a hail- 
storm. She even sent the butler down to see if that 
would not explain the whole matter. The man returned 
after a few minutes. He said there wasn't a breath of 
wind outside ; the night was calm and perfectly still. 
Two or three days later we heard that the heir to the 
property was dead. He died that same night. I heard 
afterwards that the house and grounds had been Church 
property and that a curse was supposed to have been laid 
on the family who took possession of the place : the eldest 
son would always be born half-witted for generation after 
generation. I believe there was a good deal of truth in 
the latter part of the story. 

The house was supposed to be haunted by a little 
crooked old woman, and my second sister had an experi- 
ence that was rather odd, to say the least of it. It occurred 
during the visit of an aunt of ours, an aunt by marriage 
Mrs. Dashwood Harrington. She was a woman of about 
sixty, and one of her shoulders was a little higher 
than the other, which gave her a slight look of deformity. 
One morning, just before luncheon, my sister Dora was 
coming down from her room on the second floor, She 



22 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

saw my aunt come out of her room, and followed her 
down the stairs from top to bottom. As they reached 
the ground floor she lost sight of her. She was rather 
puzzled, but went straight into the large room which was 
used as a general sitting-room. There she saw my aunt 
sitting on the sofa, quietly at work, 

" How in the world did you get here so quickly ? " 
said my sister. 

" What do you mean ? " answered my aunt. " I 
have been sitting nere all the morning." 

" Ah, you can't take me in I followed you down the 
stairs." 

" Followed me down the stairs ! Why, I've not been 
out of the room for the last three hours." 

My sister still thought she was joking, and said so. 
But when everybody else in the room corroborated my 
aunt's statement, she didn't know what to think, and felt 
rather nervous. It was an uncanny experience. W T hen 
she was told afterwards that the house was haunted by a 
little old crooked woman, she not unnaturally concluded 
that she had seen the ghost ! In any case, the matter was 
never explained away. 

But comical things as well as uncanny ones took place 
at Pendeford. 

And one day there was a perfect uproar in the 
nursery. The dramatis personae of the uproar were our 
old nurse, the venerable Anna Maria Cope Wiley Smith, 
and myself. She was a stern old woman who would 
have liked to rule us with a rod of iron. But that wasn't 
so easy. 

She lived in a chronic state of disapproval of every- 
thing we did and said, and almost daily we were made 
aware of the fact that Anna Maria Cope Wiley Smith 
would have none of our sauce ! The expression is hers 
not mine. I have not the slightest doubt that most of 
our responses were seasoned with a good deal of sauce 
piquante, which disagreed more or less violently with 
the poor old lady. But there is such a thing as self- 
defence ! 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 23 

She was rather a handsome old woman, although she 
always wore a hideous Early Victorian cap that would have 
spoiled the beauty of a Venus. It rose ominously from 
the back of her neck like a tidal wave of spotted net, and 
culminated in a jungle of black lace and ribbon that 
divided at the top and flowed in cascades down either 
side of her face. Should anyone be inclined to think that 
the description of this cap is exaggerated, let him re- 
member that " truth is stranger than fiction." 

Well, on this never-to-be-forgotten day she was " tidy- 
ing me up " for dinner ; the process consisted, as far as I 
can remember, in trying to scalp me to the best of her 
ability. If I have even three hairs left with which to 
adorn my middle-aged and aching head, it is not owing 
to the tender solicitude of the late Anna Maria. She did 
her level best to reduce my head to the state of a billiard 
ball, to such a pitch did she tug and pull at my hair, 
which was tremendously thick and always in a tangle. 
She had plumped me down on a chair opposite the dressing- 
table, and I was waiting quite resignedly to be operated 
upon. I really was not feeling out of the way wicked that 
morning. 

The storm did not burst at once, but there was an 
ominous and alarming crescendo, that culminated in a 
veritable pandemonium. She ordered me to " 'old my 
noise," and I refused flatly to hold anything in creation 
with such vehemence that it roused the tiger that slum- 
bered all too lightly in the jungle of Anna Maria's 
Early Victorian cap. She gave another vicious pull at my 
hair, and (of course) dramatically refused to have another 
drop of my " sauce." 

And then I had an inspiration. I threatened to go 
down to dinner just as I was, tousled hair, doubtful 
hands, filthy pinafore, muddy boots, and goodness only 
knows what else, and when Anna Maria sarcastically 
observed that she would like to see me do anything of the 
sort, I hastened, with malignant courtesy, to oblige her 
without a moment's delay, bounced out of the chair like 
an elastic ball, and would have been as good as my word 



24 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

when the old wretch suddenly secured one thick strand 
of hair to which she clung like grim death. I must say 
she was a grand old sportswoman, for she never once let 
go, though I dragged her through the nursery door, down 
a passage, on to the landing, down two flights of stairs, 
through the kitchen, across the yard, and right down to 
the bottom of the orchard ! It was a case of sturdy 
ten-year-old legs versus sixty-year-old spindle shanks, 
and of course the poor old thing collapsed while I was 
still as fresh as paint. 

She was almost speechless when, beneath an apple 
tree, she finally let go of my hair. I can't remember 
what happened after I regained my liberty. I have no 
doubt I strutted back to the house with my nose in the 
air, whistling carelessly, as though such victories were 
mere everyday occurrences. One thing, however, is 
perfectly certain. Never again did the venerable Anna 
Maria try to pull my hair out by the roots. No doubt 
she came to the conclusion that the game was not worth 
the candle. 

This capillary episode reminds me of another. 

Till she left us Mel and I shared the same bedroom, 
and great was my admiration of her rather scanty black 
locks. I used to lie in bed watching her as she braided 
her hair into two plaits that tapered beautifully away to 
nothing. " How lovely and graceful are the plaits of 
Mel ! " I thought wistfully. " How different from my own 
nasty ugly ones that are just as thick at the beginning as 
at the end ! " I knew nothing in those days of a Spanish 
proverb that says, " Hay gustos que merecen palos " 
(There are tastes that deserve the rod). 

While my brothers and boy cousins were at school, I 
also did lessons at home more or less satisfactorily. 
I went on with German and my beloved geography, and I 
learned little sonatas by Haydn, Mozart, and dementi. 
Mel never taught me anything but classical music, and I 
loved it. I also began to learn English History. I read, 
learned, but in no wise digested a volume by the eminently 
respectable Mrs. Markham on the subject. In fact, the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 25 

conversations carried on by the three children at the end 
of each chapter distinctly disagreed with my literary 
digestion. They seemed to me the three greatest prigs in 
Christendom. I thought that sugary little boys who 
thirsted for information and who constantly prefaced 
each question with " Pray, Mama," ought to be ducked 
in a pond. Their goody-goody reflections made me sick. 
This was the sort of thing : 

" Pray, Mama, ought we not to be deeply thankful 
that our own dear England is so very different from the 
rest of the unfortunate Continent ? " or 

" Indeed, Mama, it is very sad to think how many 
people still believe in the Roman Catholic religion ; ought 
we not to be deeply thankful ' etc. etc. 

Sometimes I indulged in lighter literature and read 
the stories in my little sister's spelling-book. There I 
learned, to my utter amazement, that " Miss Jane was a 
nice girl, but she was cross and told fibs." How could 
this be ? Nobody thought me a nice girl when I was 
cross and told fibs. My ears were boxed, or I was sent to 
bed in disgrace. I could not swallow this commentary on 
Miss Jane. If she was cross and told fibs, she was not 
a nice girl, she was a vile sneak. I gloried in the un- 
masking of Miss Jane. It was my first attempt at 
psychology. 

My grandmother Harrington and my aunt Dora 
Harrington always lived with us. " Auntie Dora," as 
she was called by friends as well as relations, was one 
of the most lovable human beings I have ever known. 
To the last day of her life there was something childlike 
and guileless about her that was infinitely touching. 
It isn't often that one can say with absolute truth that 
one knows one was really dear to another. But I would 
have had to doubt my own existence before I doubted 
her love for me. I was with her when she died, and 
even then she seemed more anxious to console me than 
to give a thought to herself and her own sufferings. 
She belonged to the fast vanishing type of woman who 
knows how to grow old gracefully. 



26 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I thought of her one night, long afterwards, in Rome, 
at a small dinner at the house of the well-known novelist, 
the late Marion Crawford. I sat beside a very agreeable 
and good-looking French naval attache, a man of about 
forty. Someone having remarked that there were no 
old women nowadays, he turned to me and said regret- 
fully- - 

" C'est peut etre vrai, mais comme c'est dommage. 
Ah, ce qu'elle etait delicieuse, ma vieille grand'mere. 
Elle portait toujours des machins comme cela ! " (Here he 
rolled imaginary curls round his fingers and touched his 
ears.) " Mais ou les trouver maintenant, ces adorables 
et charmantes femmes qui vieillissaient avec tant de 
grace ? " 

I have an idea we will find a good many of them in 
heaven if we ever get there ourselves. 

My grandmother and Auntie Dora were both Catholics. 
The Catholic religion, I am told, had never the same 
hold on my mother, who after her marriage with my 
father became a Protestant and brought us all up as 
Protestants. My mother was a clever and unusually 
sincere woman. She changed her religion from absolute 
conviction and for no convenient worldly reasons. I 
never heard a single discussion on religion in our house- 
hold. If " love is the fulfilling of the law," then certainly 
the law was fulfilled at home. I became a Catholic at 
the age of twenty-four ; but religious intolerance is 
utterly abhorrent to me. I am firmly convinced that 
loyalty to one's own convictions is absolutely compatible 
with a generous understanding of other people's sincere 
beliefs (or incapacity of belief) however opposite to 
one's own. If " charity understandeth all things," why 
should not we, at all events, do our best to try and 
understand that other people may be just as sincere as 
ourselves without arriving at the same results ? What 
bitter and useless discussions would be avoided in this 
way ! 

We often had visitors to stay with us at Pendeford, 
but the one who made most impression on me was 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 27 

General Milan, a Spanish general, who had come over 
from South America with my father. Before returning 
to Spain, he spent a few days with us. He was the 
most fiery little man I have ever seen. I was absolutely 
fascinated by his talk about the Carlists, Queen Isabella, 
etc. etc. I lived in a hotbed of romance and adventure 
during his visit. Never shall I forget the extraordinary 
nail he cultivated on the forefinger of one of his hands. 
It was like a bird's claw. I am certain it was quite an 
inch long. My little sister Emily some time afterwards 
grew a similar one on her own forefinger, and great was 
her distress when my mother unmercifully cut it off. 
She assured me the other day that she fainted during 
the process ! My admiration did not go to such lengths. 
True to the instincts of a budding musician, I preferred 
long hair to long nails, and left the cultivation of the 
latter to Spanish generals and baby-sisters. 

But the budding musician was all unknowingly on 
the eve of a great change. 



CHAPTER III. 

NEVER shall I forget my dismay and distress when I 
heard that Mel was going away. 

One of my sisters took me aside and told me what 
was about to happen. She said something to the effect 
that there was a strong feeling that Mel's influence was 
alienating me from the rest of the family and that my 
mother thought it was high time that it should cease. I 
asked for no details, in a vague sort of way I understood 
what my sister was trying to convey to me. But I had a 
strong affection for Mel, which was not shared by the 
others there was absolutely no reason why they should 
have felt the same affection ; they had never stood in 
quite the same relation to her as I had. I had been 
given almost entirely at one time quite entirely into 
her care. And during my sister's little speech I felt 
overcome by a strong feeling of loyalty and reserve. That 
Mel should have been weighed in the balance and found 
wanting seemed to me almost cruel, and the thought that 
she who had ruled my destiny for so many years was now 
no longer to rule her own, impressed me as humiliating 
and sad. I think I dimly realised for the first time in my 
life that even grown-up people are not always able to do 
as they like ; my instinct told me that she did not wish to 
leave us and that my mother's decision would make her 
suffer. I felt restless and unhappy, longing to console 
Mel, but feeling somehow as if that would not be quite 
loyal to my mother. I believe there was another reason 
which made her going away a necessity, but it was never 
discussed before me, nor had I any chance of ever forming 
an opinion of my own on the subject. 

No doubt my mother was perfectly right in the course 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 29 

she pursued as far as I was concerned, for I was so much 
with Mel, even sharing her bedroom for years, that I did 
perhaps begin to think I owed her more allegiance than 
anyone else. She was a very unworldly woman, and I am 
positively certain she was a good one ; the sacrifices she 
made for her own family after she left us convinced me for 
ever of that. But for some time she had been under the 
influence of a very Low Church clergyman, a really good 
man, but rather narrow-minded. I remember him per- 
fectly : he had snow-white hair and mild blue eyes ; he 
also had a cough, and a wife who threatened to turn 
him out of bed if he dared go on coughing two minutes 
longer than was quite agreeable to her. Now I know all 
about coughing, indeed I may say I am an authority 
on the subject, for I caught cold when I was eleven years 
old and have barked perseveringly through several 
decades. I have seriously alarmed my family, my friends, 
and my Sicilian servants by an apparently ruthless deter- 
mination to cough myself out of this world into the next ; 
and once, at the theatre, after choking and spluttering 
through half the first act of a new play, I detected on the 
face of the very kind friend who had not only invited me, 
but who had also presented me with my stall, an expression 
which really frightened me : it was the sort of expression 
that one would not exactly care to live with, or to meet 
at dusk on a lonely road. He will certainly recognise 
himself, should he ever read this, but I am too much of a 
coward not to preserve his incognito in these pages, as his 
name is very well known when he signs it to his own ! 

Considering these circumstances, I ought perhaps to 
understand the feelings of the old clergyman's wife, but I'm 
bound to say my sympathy rushes out unhesitatingly to the 
reverend gentleman whose better half had progressed so 
little under his spiritual direction. After all, if the result 
of prayer-meetings is, on the part of the " prayer-meeter," 
a violent and irresistible desire to turn an innocent and 
afflicted old gentleman, neck and crop, out of the conjugal 
four-poster, with nothing on his back but a nightshirt, 
and nothing in his mouth but a cough lozenge with 



30 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

which to get through the night in an arm-chair on the 
landing, all I can say is they can't be quite the right sort 
of prayer-meetings. 

When he wasn't coughing he took a keen interest in 
Mel, and I feel pretty sure he impressed her with the belief 
that it was her solemn duty to play the role of spiritual 
alarm-clock to my mother's slumbering conscience, which 
certainly showed no signs of awakening during the dances 
and picnics to which my grown-up sisters went as a matter 
of course. As to my father's conscience, I am quite certain 
it not only slept soundly but also snored cheerfully through- 
out the whole episode. He was one of the kindest-hearted 
men who ever lived, and he had a very keen sense of 
humour. I have seen him laugh till the tears rolled down 
his cheeks, and one of the most vivid of my childish 
recollections is the almost helpless way he used to wipe his 
spectacles after one of these prolonged and hearty laughs. 

Poor Mel ! I am afraid she gave the whole family up 
as a bad business. She constantly read the Pilgrim's 
Progress, and, I am sure, had visions of the Evil One 
flying off with Pendeford under his wings to the " Hill of 
Error," where its conversion into a second " Beelzebub 
Castle " was only a question of time. She had centred 
all her hopes on me, and I also was made to read the 
Pilgrim's Progress. If things had not come to an end when 
they did, no doubt I should have started private visions of 
my own in which I should have beheld the whole family 
rolling headlong down the " Hill of Error " into the 
" snares, pits, traps, and gins " of the celebrated book, 
Grannie and Auntie Dora leading the way as decorously as 
possible with due attention to their respective crinolines, 
father and mother behind them and all my brothers and 
sisters after them, while Mel and I stood sorrowing at the 
top in spotless garments of uncertain shape, shedding a 
few natural (if rather superior) tears, and quite unable, in 
spite of Mel's nationality and my own long residence in the 
Fatherland, to wish them " eine gliickliche Reise " with 
anything like heartfelt sincerity. 

I felt absolutely lost the day she left Pendeford. I 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 31 

could not imagine what was going to happen to me. 
When she kissed me good-bye and I saw the tears running 
down her sad, thin face, I felt really wretched both for 
her and myself. She may have had her weak points, and 
of course she had her faults like the rest of us, but I felt 
somehow as if I understood how things had gone wrong. I 
understood a good many things in a way that I honestly 
think was really rather unusual in so young a child. Many, 
many years afterwards I received a letter that amused 
and touched me, and made me hope that I had not alto- 
gether flattered myself in thinking that I had sometimes 
understood things a demi mot. The letter was from 
my dear and faithful friend Liza Lehmann. She wrote 
rather despondently, from Heligoland where she had 
gone for her health ; she was staying in lodgings in the 
Kartoffel Alice (Potato Avenue), a stodgy address which 
was hardly calculated to raise her spirits ! She said she 
felt ill and depressed, and in the course of the letter she 
wrote : "I wonder if you understand how . . . but 
there ... I know you understand ! It is the greatest 
feather in your cap, it trails along the ground for miles 
and is never out of curl." 

It was Mel who awoke my imagination, Mel who 
revealed to me the Wonderworld of Fairyland ; it was she 
who handed me the magic wand with which I peopled the 
dark mountain forests with fairies and witches, with 
gnomes and magicians, and myriads of tiny elves ; it 
was she who gave me the magic shuttle with which I wove 
the mossy carpet on which they danced in the moonlight 
with the wild hyacinths, till the warning bells of the lily 
of the valley rang out the coming of the dawn ; it was 
through her that I knew Dornroschen and Rothkappchen 
and I know not how many splendid young princes and 
beautiful young princesses, who, I felt quite sure, lived 
in wonderful and mysterious castles on the other side of 
the Heidelberg mountains, over which the lucky little 
birds were able to fly, but where I could never, never 
follow them ; it was she who led me by the hand through 
the enchanted regions of Greek mythology which I loved 



32 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

so much that it really changed the aspect of the whole 
world for me. I felt as if it were always radiant morning 
in that wonderful land of the imagination in which I 
secretly wandered for hours at a time. 

Not many years ago, in Sicily, on my way to Taormina, 
as the train ran beside the beautiful wild mountains with 
orange and lemon groves on one hand, and the Ionian 
Sea on the other, I saw a shepherd wandering along the 
golden sands, driving a herd of goats before him. It was 
early morning ; one of those heavenly blue Sicilian days 
when the world looks as if it had just left the hands of 
Almighty God with a cry of ecstasy at its own beauty, 
a world which it is impossible to connect with anything 
but radiant happiness. As I watched the shepherd and 
his shaggy goats I felt as though I were watching a scene 
which belonged not only to the youth of the world, but a 
scene which belonged ineradicably to my own. 

Vernon Lee has written a charming and touching essay 
on the subject of how much we owe our German gover- 
nesses. I endorse every word she says, for though I was 
only ten years old when Mel went out of my life, she left 
me with a treasure of which no one has ever been able 
to rob me, and for which I shall love and bless her memory 
to the end of my life. 

One day I was told that it had been decided to send me 
to a boys' school as a day-boarder. This was a piece 
of news with a vengeance ! The school was in Wolver- 
hampton, about four miles away from Pendeford. I was 
to drive there every day with my father when he went 
in to business, returning with him towards five o'clock. 
My little brother Harry and several little boy cousins 
(Harringtons) were already there as weekly boarders. 
My two eldest brothers, one of whom has spent most of 
his life soldiering in India and who is now a retired 
Colonel, were among the props of this establishment in 
their salad days. The school was kept by a delightful 
woman Miss Reach. I suppose she had a Christian 
name, but I never knew what it was. She was just Miss 
Reach. I can't imagine even her father or mother ven- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 33 

turing to call her anything but " Miss Reach " after she 
started her boys' school. It really was not necessary 
to glance twice at her to take in the fact that even as the 
Asra of Heine and Rubenstein belonged to the race of 
those that " die when they love," so Miss Reach belonged 
to the race of those who to the day of their death will 
stand " no nonsense." But she was a dear, for all that, 
you couldn't help liking her. I detected a twinkle in her 
eye on more than one occasion, and doubted whether she 
was as stern as she pretended to be. As to Miss Reach's 
hair, I simply raved about it. It was coal black and as 
stiff as a poker ; it looked as if she went over it carefully 
every morning with the best (the very best) boot-blacking. 
That Miss Reach anticipated Mr. Edwards and his hair 
drill by at least forty years I am perfectly certain, and Mr. 
Edwards would be the first to acknowledge the fact 
publicly had he ever seen Miss Reach's immaculate head, 
as she emerged from her bedroom towards eight o'clock 
in order to preside at the breakfast-table. Each well- 
drilled hair " knew its place " as well, if not better, than 
her polite parlourmaid knew hers. Of course I quite 
realise that this particular sort of hair may not rouse the 
same enthusiasm in other people as it did in me ; indeed 
I am quite prepared to admit a certain amount of change 
in my own taste since those days, for some years ago 
I almost came to blows with a German gentleman whom I 
met at a Sanatorium in Germany, and who refused point- 
blank to share my admiration for the glossy and really 
beautiful wavy hair of a young Jewess who sat opposite 
to us at dinner. 

" I do not like hair with a fat glance," x he said loftily, 
there and then dismissing the subject for good and all. 

But to return to Miss Reach and her school, which was 
attended by about forty little boys. For some reason or 
other, Miss Reach always liked to have one little girl to 
educate at the same time. I don't know why she limited 
herself to one ! Perhaps she thought that one girl was as 

1 A literal translation, I suppose, of " ein fetter glanz " " glanz " 
being the German for shine. 

3 



34 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

hard to manage as forty boys. Who knows ? Anyhow, 
the little girl who preceded me must have had artful 
designs on my eldest brother, for he spoke of her in the 
most disrespectful terms. When asked why he did not 
like her he said, " Because she is a frightful cockard " (he 
meant " coquette " !). 

Miss Reach was evidently on the look out for similar 
symptoms in myself, and she told my mother a story 
about me which, though I do not in the least recollect it 
and cannot personally vouch for the truth of it, I mean to 
relate, as I have no reason to believe that Miss Reach was 
in the habit of telling fibs. She informed my mother 
that a highly unattractive youth of about eleven had 
been seen kissing me in the corridor. She said that she 
had immediately sent for me and had sternly demanded 
an explanation. It appears that this chaste salute had 
affected me so very little that I was genuinely surprised 
at Miss Reach's attitude. Still, as she seemed to expect 
me to say something, I finally exclaimed, " I'll tell you 
what, Miss Reach, even if he did kiss me it was only by 
a fluke, so what does it matter ? " I remember the boy 
quite well, a skinny little wretch with red hair not at 
all my sort ! 

During school hours Miss Reach sat very primly on a 
straw chair in front of a round table covered with books ; 
a cane lay conveniently to her hand, but she did not 
often use it ; she generally busied herself with needle- 
work while the classes were going on. When the boys 
were unusually dense she sometimes jogged their memory 
by rapping their heads with her silver thimble. She 
never punished me, as far as I can remember. I dare say 
she thought it was punishment enough for a lively and 
restless child like myself to be obliged to retire every day 
at one o'clock with her and the assistant mistress to the 
ugly, dreary dining-room where a joint and a milk pudding 
generally awaited us. I was thankful when the meal 
was over and I was able to return to the large and cheerful 
schoolroom. My desk was at the top of the long table. 
I sat next a boy called Dickinson. He sharpened slate- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 35 

pencils to perfection, and sometimes he condescended to 
bestow his attention on mine, but in his heart of hearts 
he thought I was a mean cat. And so I was. For on 
one occasion I was altogether rather more diplomatic 
than is consistent with strict honesty. I may as well 
confess that where arithmetic was concerned I was stupid 
to the last degree. I knew that the fatal day would 
inevitably dawn when I would have to learn the Rule 
of Three, I even feared it would dawn ere long ; so I thought 
I would prepare the way by asking Dickinson, who was 
a shining light in " Vulgar Fractions," to initiate me 
into the mysteries. 

One day I said carelessly, " I say, Dickinson, how do 
you do the Rule of Three, by the way ? " I hoped he would 
fall into the trap; in any case, I hoped he would give 
me a hint in a kind and fatherly way, for after all he 
was thirteen and I was only ten. But Dickinson was 
even sharper than his celebrated pencil-points ! Do you 
think he was taken in for one single solitary second ? 
Not he ! He said something to the effect that I needn't 
think he didn't know why I was sucking up to him, 
because he did I 

His refusal to help me in this matter did not signify 
in the least. I foundered hopelessly in the quicksands 
of Long Division, and every effort to haul me out of 
them was perfectly useless. I only sank deeper. I was 
still in Long Division when I left Miss Reach's, though 
I had won a prize, and had even been " head boy " for 
about two minutes on one memorable occasion. Oh ! the 
miserable tears I have shed over sums so absurdly easy 
that it was no wonder my teachers thought they were 
well within my capacity. I was an idiot, a perfect idiot, 
over arithmetic. I now try to console myself by reflecting 
that to bring anything even idiocy to absolute per- 
fection is somewhat in the nature of an achievement. 

One morning a small boy had the misfortune to incur 
the righteous wrath of Miss Reach. I will call him 
Blumenkranz ; that was not his name, but it is near 
enough, and will prevent me at all events from being 



36 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

had up for libel. I don't know what the offence was, 
but I do remember the punishment. 

Blumenkranz a child of Israel was to be whipped 
that evening on his return from the dancing class : the 
whipping was to take place just before supper a sort of 
dreadful cock-tail ! Miss Reach called him " sir " when 
she pronounced his doom. I must say, had I been in 
her place there would have been no whipping that even- 
ing I would have decorated Blumenkranz and given 
him the D.S.O. For he heard his sentence like a hero ; 
though he was only a yard high, he didn't condescend 
to shed a single tear,, and he went bravely through the 
dancing lesson, though every time he glanced at his shin- 
ing pumps he must have thought with a shiver of Miss 
Reach's discarded slipper whose acquaintance he was to 
make that evening. He obeyed the order to " chassez, 
croisez," with cheerful alacrity; he stood with his toes 
turned gallantly out in the first position, though his legs 
must have been shaking with apprehension ; he waltzed 
with the rest of us round the room to the strains of old 
Mr. Ridgeway's fiddle, and I am not at all sure that he 
didn't invite me to hop through a polka with him. I 
believe he even danced a hornpipe ! My heart bled for 
Blumenkranz, for I had fully realised what lay in store 
for him. Most of our futures we are told lie on the knees 
of the gods. But the future of Blumenkranz, at all events 
his immediate future, and the whole of his diminutive 
anatomy, lay on the uncompromising knees of Miss 
Reach, and it was awful to see him pirouetting to his 
doom ! 

Music was almost entirely neglected during my years 
at Miss Reach's. I had no lessons, but was sent to 
practise by myself for an hour every afternoon on a 
horrid little upright piano in the dreary dining-room. 

Of course I did nothing of the sort ; in the first place, 
I had nothing to practise, for I certainly had no intention 
of learning any of the really dreadful drawing-room 
pieces with which the piano was covered. Occasionally 
I played through one of them, for I read music quite 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 37 

easily. How I jibbed at the " Priere d'une Vierge " ! 
The " Gems of Scotland," set in arpeggios and triplets, 
were sham jewels for which I had unmitigated contempt, 
and one or two pieces by Brinsley Richards made my 
flesh creep. I had such frightful attacks of low spirits 
in that dreary back room that I never think of it without 
horror. After some months I began to connect music 
itself with those four walls and those hideous tenth-rate 
compositions which lay in bilious green and yellow covers 
on the top of the piano, and it seemed to me that my 
own love of music was being slowly poisoned to death. 
So much for atmosphere ! When I left Miss Reach's 
at the end of the year, I would not have cared if I had 
never set eyes on a piano again. I almost hated the 
sight of one. Something lovely in me had died. Or 
had it only fallen into a deep and dreamless sleep, like 
the long sleep of the Dornroschen of legend ? 

At the beginning of each term we had to present 
ourselves to Miss Reach, who, seated at the round table, 
inquired of us the amount of pocket-money with which 
we had returned to school. When Gardner, the head- 
boy, arrived one term with thirteen shillings and sixpence 
in his possession, and informed Miss Reach of this fact 
before the whole school, there was a mild sensation ! 
A look of profound respect dawned even on the face of 
Miss Reach. Where were the rest of us, with our " Three 
and sixpences " and " One and ninepences " ? Simply 
nowhere. Gardner was the hero of the hour. Outwardly 
he remained perfectly calm, but he must have felt like 
an embryo Pierpont Morgan inside. I couldn't get over 
it. Thirteen and six I All of us, including Miss Reach, 
felt that we had heard the gentle lowing of the Golden 
Calf ! And with one accord we made our best bow to it. 

During the year I went to Miss Reach's I did my 
very best to forget that I was a girl. I coaxed the great 
Anna Maria into putting two pockets into all my skirts, 
one on each side ; I then stuck my hands into them, and 
cultivated the art of whistling. Emmie and I learned 
to ride, and were actually given a pony between us. 



38 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

This had for years been the goal of our desires. I envied 
the coachman who looked after it, and consulted anxiously 
with him as to whether it wouldn't be a good thing if a 
bed were made up for me over the stable. He was full 
of sympathy. We even went together to inspect a loft, 
which we thought might do. Unfortunately no one 
else shared our opinion, and I continued to sleep in the 
nursery under the lynx-like eye of Anna Maria. 

And now the first break in our family was to occur. 
My eldest sister became engaged to Captain James Marret, 
and after a short engagement went out to India with him. 
Her wedding took place in June. The house was filled 
with cousins, both boys and girls, for the occasion, and 
the way we tormented my poor sister and her fiance 
was perfectly scandalous. Did they meet in the hope 
of spending a quiet afternoon together, they were at once 
pounced on by relays of horrid little imps whose delight 
it was to discover whether any real love-making was 
going on. We thought the whole thing a huge joke, 
made plans to "catch them at it," to jump out at them 
when they least expected it, and to point the finger of 
scorn at them when the dinner-bell finally obliged them 
to emerge from the drawing-room, to which the poor 
persecuted " promessi sposi " sometimes retired, taking 
good care to lock themselves in. What did we care for 
that? The drawing-room had windows, and what are 
windows for after all if not to look either in or out of ? 

When the great day of the wedding finally dawned, 
and the ten bridesmaids and ten groomsmen had to be 
packed away in a perfect string of carriages (for the 
church was about four miles away), even the former 
imps were awed into something like good behaviour. 
We hardly recognised each other in our smart white 
dresses and immaculate Eton jackets ; we even refrained 
from pointing the collective finger of scorn at the happy 
pair as they came down the aisle arm in arm. There 
was a wedding breakfast with speeches, at which the 
youngsters of the family tasted champagne for the first 
time in their lives. It made me so sleepy that I cannot 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 39 

remember how the great day finished. Anyhow, for 
about eight of us our " occupation was gone." The 
nine fingers of scorn that had embittered the last weeks 
of my sister's maiden days retired into private life, where 
they died nine natural deaths, not in the least regretted 
by those who had known them ! 

One of my last recollections of Pendeford is that on 
one occasion the hounds met in our grounds. They 
met in a large field opposite the house, quite early one 
morning. It was the first scene of the sort at which 
I had ever been present, and it made a great impression 
on me. I thought all the red-coated riders were perfectly 
fascinating ; so was the pack of hounds which, however, 
I admired at a discreet distance, I was rather frightened 
to go amongst them. The boys ran after them for quite 
a good way, but I stayed at home to watch the prepara- 
tions which were being made for luncheon beneath a 
splendid horse-chestnut tree at the bottom of the lawn. 
To this day I associate spiced beef with huntsmen and 
horse-chestnut trees ; the smell and taste of it make 
me feel so young that I really should like to order it 
for luncheon every time a tactless hint from my looking- 
glass reminds me that " things as is, is not as 'ow as 
things as was" 

Shortly after the departure of my eldest sister and 
her husband for India my father was obliged to go out 
to South America on business. Before he sailed, it had 
been arranged that my mother with my two elder sisters 
should spend the winter in the South of England, as 
he did not care for them to remain alone at Pendeford 
during the winter ; my brothers were all at school, and 
my little sister would of course go with my mother 
wherever she went. 

But what was to become of me ? 

It seems that I had developed into such a tomboy 
during the Miss Reach episode that my father and 
mother thought it necessary to call an imperative halt 
in my mad career. The summer and winter holidays 
without the surveillance of a governess, which had been 



40 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

so delightful in my opinion had in theirs been absolutely 
disastrous. Just when things had reached a climax, 
my mother received a letter from Mademoiselle Lalande, 
the lady who had been French governess at the famous 
school in Dresden to which my elder sisters had been 
sent two years ago. In it she said that she and an 
English lady, who had also been a teacher at Madame 
Jung's, had set up an establishment of their own in 
Paris, and would be very much obliged to my mother 
if she would recommend pupils to them. My mother 
hurriedly recommended me ! I remember the morning 
my fate was sealed : I was called into the dining-room, 
where my father often invited me for the express purpose 
of chopping off the top of his egg, which I was afterwards 
allowed to eat, and I went down without any horrid 
suspicions. But I had hardly crossed the threshold 
when I realised that it was not the egg's head but my 
own that was in danger. My usual flair told me that 
some plot was being hatched in which I was intimately 
concerned, and I felt guilty and uncomfortable during 
the inspection that followed, and after which I was 
pronounced "perfectly hopeless." I remember feeling 
vaguely miserable when the interview was over. I can 
still see the whimsical and puzzled expression on my 
father's kind face and the slightly desperate look on 
my poor mother's. No doubt I had only myself to 
thank for this unfavourable verdict. It was ten chances 
to one that the " nasty ugly plaits " that were just as 
thick at the top as at the bottom were guiltless of the 
smart black bows which ought to have finished them 
off, and that my pretty frock was gaping at the back, 
with half the hooks undone. And if the inspection of 
my fat little hands had proved satisfactory, no one 
would have been more genuinely surprised than myself ; 
for very often, to say the least of it, they were the sort 
alluded to by the little boy whose schoolmaster asked 
him to describe the nature of water. He replied, " It is 
a white liquid which becomes perfectly black the moment 
you dip your hands into it." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 41 

I remember the way my parents sighed, half de- 
spondently, half humorously, and I distinctly heard one 
of them say, " Well, we must see if Paris can do any- 
thing for her." I was then told to " run away." 

But my step was not as elastic as usual. My " mad 
career " was at an end, though I still had some years of 
childhood before me. 



CHAPTER IV. 

IT was about the end of September when my mother and 
one of my sisters accompanied me to Paris. I had never 
been in France since I left it as a tiny baby. That Paris 
was the capital to which my father sometimes went and 
from which he occasionally returned with a wonderful 
pate* de Strasbourg, was about all I knew of my native 
land. The only French book I had ever read up till 
then was Les Malheurs de Sophie, by Madame de Segur. 
I believe it is the first story-book that even French 
children are usually given, though it isn't by a French 
writer at all. Madame de Segur was only French by 
marriage; she was a daughter of the famous General 
Rostopchine who, it is said, ordered Moscow to be set 
on fire rather than allow it to fall into the hands of the 
great Napoleon. 

It seems to me strange now that I should remember 
absolutely nothing of my last days at Pendeford, which 
I had really loved. Why should tiny details relating to 
absolutely insignificant circumstances stamp themselves 
so indelibly upon one's memory while events which really 
alter one's life should so entirely fade from one's mind, 
leaving no trace whatever of their existence ? Who can 
say ? But how strange it seems ! 

We arrived in Paris at dusk, and on our way from 
the station caught a glimpse of the Place de la Concorde 
and the Arc de Triomphe as we crossed the brilliantly 
lighted Champs Elys6es on our way to the Rue Kepler, 
where Mademoiselle Lalande had established herself. 
Rue Kepler is a short street not many minutes' walk 
from the beautiful Avenue, and close to the Avenue 
Marceau, which then was called Avenue Josdphine. The 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 43 

gay days of the Empire were still in full swing, and those 
who have only known Paris in its Republican dress can 
hardly imagine how its aspect has changed. A Republic 
may suit France, but it doesn't suit Paris in my humble 
opinion. The splendid Palace of the Tuileries had not 
yet been torn down by the cruel and brutal hands of 
its destroyers. It still hid from view the Place du 
Carousel, completing the great quadrangle that on three 
sides was composed of the vast Palace of the Louvre. 
Outside it was the very ideal of an Imperial home ; it 
was shut off from the Place de la Concorde by great and 
beautiful gates which only swung open for the Emperor 
and Empress when they went out driving on great occa- 
sions. I once had the good fortune to be taken over 
the state rooms, and for a few minutes I stood on the 
balcony which led out of the throne-room, to look at the 
view. Though I was still so young, I remember how it 
thrilled me. Yes, those were the fit surroundings for 
even the kings of my childhood's dreams : the palace 
itself with the Louvre in the background, the Place de 
la Concorde with its wonderful obelisk in the centre 
evoking visions of Oriental splendour, the great fountains 
playing on either side, the Corps Legislatif and the 
Ministere de la Marine facing each other, the long sweep 
of the Champs Elys^es crowded with carriages and people 
on foot, and lined on either side with chestnut trees in 
full bloom, sloping gently upwards towards the great Arc 
de Triomphe, beyond which one caught sight of the 
Avenue de 1'Imperatrice (now Avenue du Bois) losing 
itself in the lovely woods and lakes of the Bois de Boulogne 
... it was an unforgettable sight, and one that was 
enough to fire the imagination of any child who saw it 
for the first time from the throne-room of the famous 
palace. When I think that never again shall I see that 
beautiful pile, I could cry with sheer despair at the 
wanton stupidity of the Vandals who razed it to the 
ground and wiped out in a moment of frenzy one of their 
most beautiful buildings from the face of the earth. 

Sometimes when I walk across the stretch of ground 



44 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

that formerly was the Emperor's private garden, and 
where the poor little Prince Imperial used to play in the 
days of his own unclouded childhood, I feel like an im- 
pertinent intruder and would almost welcome the sergent 
de vitte who took me by the shoulders and turned me 
out! 

The Empress, in those days, drove constantly in the 
Bois, so did Princess Metternich, the famous Princess 
Pauline, whose husband was then Austrian Ambassador. 
She had nicknamed herself " le singe a la mode " ! 
Whether she maligned herself or no, I am unable to say, 
as I never saw her till she was a woman of fifty, when 
I happened to meet her, twenty years later, at an anti- 
quary's shop in Vienna, and then she was so made up 
that it was almost impossible to tell what she had looked 
like when young. But that she was the most fascinating 
of women I don't think anyone ever attempted to deny. 
Her escapades and witticisms were the town talk. 

Offenbach's comic operas were the rage just then, and 
the whole world flocked to see Mademoiselle Schneider 
in the Duchesse de Gerolstein. Wherever one went some- 
one was sure to be humming " J'aime les militaires " or 
*' Voici le sabre de mon pere." Ambroise Thomas was 
then head of the Conservatoire, which had just introduced 
to the theatrical world one of its greatest glories 
Mademoiselle Sarah Bernhardt. His operas and Gounod's 
were among those most often given in Paris at that time. 
It seemed to me that there was a glitter and excitement 
about everything and everybody. Certainly echoes of 
what was going on penetrated very frequently even the 
walls of No. 6 Rue Kepler. The fact is, Mademoiselle 
Lalande's house was not only a school. She also received 
guests ; some of whom rich Russians and Americans 
mingled a good deal with the great world outside. 

At dinner, where we all met, and where for the first 
year I was the only child at table, the conversation was 
often really worth listening to, as it continually turned on 
topics of the day which drew still more interest from the 
fact that some of the guests present had actually taken 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 45 

part in them, or were acquainted personally with the people 
concerned in them. 

A great many foreigners were received at the Court of 
Napoleon in., and now and again some of them would 
come to Rue Kepler for the winter months. They all 
seemed to have heaps of money and heaps of friends, and 
their lives were one perpetual round of gaiety. Of course 
they had their own private sitting-rooms, but when they 
dined at home it was at the table where Mademoiselle 
Lalande and her partner Miss Morton sat with the rest of 
us. Sometimes there would be quite a small party and 
someone would say, " Eh bien, elles ne dinent pas ce soir, 
Madame X. et ses filles ? " '" Mais non," would come the 
answer, " ces dames dinent aujourd'hui a I'Ambassade de 
Russie " or "a I'Ambassade d'Ame*rique." These 
words would set my little brain whirling. What was an 
Embassy ? A palace, I felt quite sure. And an 
Ambassador what was he ? Someone tremendously im- 
portant, that was perfectly certain, or else " ces dames " 
would not have made such a fuss about what they were to 
wear when they went to dine with one. 

I hadn't been many months in Paris before I realised 
that Monsieur Worth was almost as important a person as 
the Emperor himself, and that it was very nearly as exciting 
to spend an hour with him in the Rue de la Paix as to go to 
a ball at the Tuileries. And, what was an attache like ? 
I longed to see one. Oh to be grown-up and visit all the 
wonderful countries that had embassies in Paris ! Oh to be 
clever enough to talk to an attache", or, perhaps, some 
day, to an Ambassador ! What bliss to speak as many 
languages as the beautiful Princess Alexandrine who 
came with her charming mother, whose name I quite for- 
get, to stay with us during the great Exhibition, when 
Paris literally overflowed with royal visitors. Princess 
Alexandrine was a maid of honour to the Empress of 
Russia. On one occasion when she and her mother were 
going to a ball at the Tuileries they begged for me to be 
allowed to sit up to see them in their Court dresses. 
Princess Alexandrine was about nineteen ; she looked 



46 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

lovely that night ; and, if I remember rightly, she wore on 
her shoulder a miniature of the Empress set in diamonds. 
All Russian maids of honour are obliged to do so, I believe, 
but I knew nothing of the custom at that time. I thought 
she was a privileged and unique specimen of humanity and 
admired her with all my heart. I would have gone cheer- 
fully to Siberia with her had she been exiled, and would 
have thought myself lucky had she consented to take me 
with her. For years she lived in my memory as a sort 
of " Etoile du Nord." Meyerbeer's opera was just then 
being given very often in Paris , and the name had fascinated 
me when I read it on the hoardings in the street. 

But to go back to my first evening in Paris. We 
arrived just in time for dinner. A group of pretty 
English and American girls, beautifully dressed, were 
standing about in the hall and the drawing-room when we 
came down. I gathered from their conversation that they 
were going to the Opera. I think it was to hear Faust. 
" Oh," I thought, " if only they would ask me to go with 
them ! why don't they ? I'm not a bit tired. Why 
doesn't Mademoiselle Lalande ask mother to let me go ? " 
And all through dinner, during which I never uttered a 
word, I sat almost trembling with excitement, waiting to 
be invited. It was, of course, so very likely ! I hadn't 
been an hour in the house, and, after the long and tiring 
journey, bed was my destiny not Les Italiens or the 
Ope*ra Comique. When I saw all the pretty girls rising 
with one accord from the table with their chaperon before 
dinner was actually over, so as to arrive at the theatre in 
time for the Prelude, a feeling of despair invaded me. 

" It's too late now," I thought ; " in two minutes they'll 
be gone, and I'll be left alone with all these old ladies ! 
Why, why, why ? " 

And there I sat, disappointed and dejected, and trying 
to imagine what an opera was like, and suddenly feeling 
that music was again desirable and beautiful. My only 
experience of the theatre was a pantomime to which I had 
once been taken in Wolverhampton one Christmas. But 
it hadn't made much impression on me. I didn't care 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 47 

about the clown, and almost hated the pantomime itself, 
which was, I believe, Puss in Boots, and which I thought 
was going to be a beautiful fairy story, but which was quite 
spoilt by a lot of vulgar jokes and all sorts of incidents 
that had nothing on earth to do with either Puss or his 
boots. The whole thing was a regular fraud. I hadn't 
been three hours in Paris, but my instinct already told 
me that an opera there was likely to be very different to 
a pantomime in Wolverhampton ! 

And I made another discovery that evening. A woman 
need not necessarily be young to be extremely attractive ! 
After a while I noticed a delightful old lady, who apparently 
had found a good deal to talk about, with my mother. As 
a matter of fact she cannot have been more than forty- 
five or fifty, but children are as vague as Arabs on the 
subject of age. 

She was a Brazilian, and her name was Madame 
Navarro d'Andrade. For some years she had made 
Paris her headquarters. I never saw anyone who re- 
sembled her in the slightest degree. She was extremely 
good-looking, really clever, as fiery as old General Milan, 
and passionately fond of things intellectual ; she also 
adored music. She used to go regularly to the College 
de France, and was a great admirer of Monsieur de 
Laboulaye who used to lecture there, and who, as I 
have said in a previous chapter, was the head of the 
College and one of my mother's oldest friends. My 
mother happened to mention this in the course of con- 
versation, which naturally interested Madame Navarro, 
and they struck up a friendship which after my mother's 
departure was extended to me, and which I am glad to 
say I thoroughly appreciated from the very beginning, 
young as I was. Madame Navarro, as she was always 
called, was one of those women who had an instinctive 
love for everything beautiful, no matter what form it 
took, and her personality was quite out of the way de- 
lightful. She was never idle, never bored, never too busy 
to be kind, and she was alive, alive to her finger-tips ! 
Not only was she interesting herself, but she managed 



48 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

to convey to others how amazingly interesting life can 
be, and that it rests with ourselves to make our lives 
successes or failures quite independently of circum- 
stances. She herself had known great happiness and 
great sorrow. After a few years of happy married life, 
she had lost not only the husband she adored, but her 
only son ; it was then, I believe, that she came to Europe 
in the hope of finding new interests with which to fill the 
void in her life. Only once did I ever hear her allude 
to her dear ones, and then such a look of unutterable sad- 
ness came into her charming face, so gay and animated 
as a rule, that I realised that her grief had been no surface 
sorrow, but one that had gone deep and hit hard. How 
often and often in after years have I wondered what it is 
that makes some people (and all that concerns them) 
stand out so vividly from the many others who, while 
they please, and even charm us, do not succeed in really 
*' holding "us. I use the word " hold " purposely, for 
it has sometimes seemed to me that there are some per- 
sonalities that literally grip us, to such a degree are we 
unable to detach our interest from them. Of course I am 
not alluding to the people with whom we fall in love, 
for they are often hopelessly dull, and when nine engage- 
ments out of ten take place it is no wonder that a thousand 
amateur composers immediately rush to their desks, 
inspired by the happy couple to re-set the eternal old 
chorus, " What could she see in him ? What on earth 
attracted him to her ? " I once made this remark 
myself to a very charming old lady, the sister of a former 
Ambassador to the United States. She had seen a good 
deal of the world, I need hardly say, and on this occasion 
she replied, " Well, my dear, what I always say to you 
critical young people is : c Did he ever make love to 
you ? ' or, c Did she ever give you the chance of making 
love to her ? ' That makes a good deal of difference, 
you know." Perhaps it does, but surely for only a very 
short time ! A donkey remains a donkey even if one's 
imagination paints him with the stripes of a zebra, and 
paint, alas ! washes off very easily. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 49 

No, the people I mean are those rare ones of the earth 
whose minds are as responsive as electric bells in perfect 
working order : however lightly you touch them, you 
immediately hear them ring. Don't we all know, on 
the other hand, how maddening it is to go on pressing 
our thumbs to a stupid button which stares us silently 
in the face, till we hate the very sight of it ? 

And the people I mean may be as rich as Croesus or as 
poor as church mice, but in either case it is they who 
really possess the earth. It is they who see the beauty, 
the interest, the eternal pathos and the eternal humour 
in all things, till at last, to those who know and love them, 
they stand for the incarnation of all that makes life the 
splendid thing it is. They seem to absorb the beauty 
of all that touches them just as the ocean acquires addi- 
tional beauty from the radiant light of the rising sun ; 
just as the snow-capped mountains of Calabria become 
still more ethereal beneath the silver light of the moon. 
To feel things intensely, to be genuinely fascinated by 
what is intrinsically interesting, to let oneself go without 
reserve when an appeal to one's sympathy is made, to 
fling the doors of one's imagination and of one's heart 
wide open to welcome the splendid visitors, who if once 
admitted would return again and again laden with precious 
gifts this is in itself a power, this in itself is bound to 
attract others to us. 

Often when I passed the door of Madame Navarro's 
sitting-room I heard the sound of the piano. She played 
with a verve and an enthusiasm that quite carried me 
off my feet in a whirlwind of emotion. She had real 
temperament. Her eyes positively blazed when she was 
excited over anything. No wonder she woke me out of 
my lethargy and indifference and made me long to look 
at everything through her eyes. I began to study music 
again with Monsieur Jacques Baur, a first-rate teacher 
and a really good musician. He at once gave me Bach's 
little Preludes, and after a time I began to learn the 
easier preludes and fugues in the Wohltemperirtes 
Klavier. Sometimes instead of practising I began to 
4 



50 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

improvise. But no sooner had I begun to enjoy myself 
in this way than a governess would poke her head into 
the room : " Allons, finissez, ma chere combien de fois 
faut-il qu'on vous disc que c'est 1'heure d'etudier votre 
piano ? " I obeyed at the time, but the temptation to 
improvise whenever I got the chance was always perfectly 
irresistible. 

Once, during the visit of the beautiful Princess Alexan- 
drine and her mother, a very smart and nice-looking young 
man came to call upon them. He was shown into the 
drawing-room where I happened to be improvising as 
usual, instead of studying Bach. He said to me, in such 
a pleasant voice, " Continuez, continuez, Mademoiselle ; 
je vous en prie, ne vous derangez pas," that I decided to 
go on. Unlike Op. 1 and Op. 2 of Heidelberg fame, which 
firmly refused to budge outside the limits of a single 
octave, this new inspiration fled from top to bottom of the 
piano, like a hunted hare with a pack of hounds in full 
pursuit. I believe I really didn't play at all badly for a 
little girl whose skirts hardly reached below her knees 
anyhow, the nice-looking young man was quite impressed. 
He cried, " Brava ! bis ! Mais comme vous jouez bien 
c'est e*tonnant, c'est vraiment etonnant ! " I didn't 
look round, but I was " tickled to death," as my American 
schoolfellows would have said, at so unexpected and 
warm a tribute to my performance. Then the old 
Princess and her daughter appeared on the scene, and I 
beat a hasty retreat, feeling triumphant but suddenly shy. 

It wasn't often that I had such a chance of " showing 
off," and like everyone else I had my little share of vanity, 
even at that early stage of my career ! It has had a good 
many knock-down blows since, but what a hardy perennial 
it is ! It flourishes on the sandiest soil and in the most 
inclement weather, and shows no signs of premature 
decay ! 

I had only been at school a short time when I received 
the news of my dear father's death. I felt utterly desolate 
and miserable when I thought that never, never again 
should I see his kind good face. I can't remember his ever 






FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 51 



having spoken a single harsh word to me, nor do I believe 
that a kinder, more tender-hearted man ever lived. He 
died on his way home from South America ; he caught 
yellow fever in the neighbourhood of Panama and was 
buried on the little island of Tobago in the Pacific Ocean. 
He was only taken ill in the morning, but they buried him 
before sunset. To my poor mother, who had only just 
had a letter from him saying he never felt better in his 
life, his death was a frightful blow, from which she never 
recovered. My father adored her ; when he was only 
fourteen years old he made up his mind that he would 
marry her, and though he was only a lad when he went out 
to Chile to join his father, he never forgot her. When he 
returned to Europe after several years the first thing he 
did was to come to Dieppe to ask her to marry him in real 
earnest. It is worth while being loved like that, but it 
doesn't happen very often. Everyone in the house was 
kind and good to me when they saw how unhappy I was, 
and they all did their best to lead my thoughts into 
another channel. That Christmas Eve I was taken out to 
see the pretty booths that had been erected all along the 
Boulevards, extending from the Boulevard de la Made- 
leine to the Boulevard Bonne Nouvelle. It was a wonder- 
fully gay sight ; the child doesn't live who wouldn't 
be delighted by the fascinating shop-windows of Paris 
at Christmas. I believe it was the first time I had ever 
been for a walk there ; our daily promenade was generally 
limited to the Champs Ely sees, or the Avenue de 1'Im- 
peratrice. 

When Christmas Day came round they got up a little 
tree for me and gave me presents one of the presents, a 
pretty little Yule-log which looked as if it were burning, 
and which was filled with delicious chocolates, I remember 
to this day, also the kind-hearted and graceful American 
girl who gave it to me. I had never to my knowledge 
seen an American till I went to Paris, all my ideas of 
North America and its inhabitants having been gleaned 
from Uncle Tom's Cabin, which had fascinated me as it 
had fascinated everyone else. I distinctly remember the 



52 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

very strong impression made upon me by my American 
schoolfellows, most of whom were very much older than 
myself, their ages varying from sixteen to nineteen. 
I thought of them as the personifications of independence, 
good looks, chic, and unlimited wealth, whose parents 
were entirely under their control and existed merely to 
carry out their orders beings who had consented to come 
into this world on the sole understanding that they were 
to be allowed to do exactly as they chose. If they chose 
to study well and good ; if they chose to have an attack 
of nervous prostration (they called it noivous prawstra- 
tion) instead of learning French grammar or having a 
music lesson, that was their own affair and concerned no 
one else. They just waved the Stars and Stripes, and cast- 
iron rules were upset like teacups in their favour. I expect 
they threatened to have themselves removed elsewhere 
unless they were allowed to follow their own inclina- 
tions in everything. They knew (and poor Mademoiselle 
Lalande knew) that they would be backed up to the hilt 
by the proverbial, if sometimes mistaken, kindness of their 
parents. When they disapproved of anything the youngest 
of them would suddenly acquire the look of a woman of 
long years' experience, who knew just exactly how to 
deal with people who must be got rid of. 

" Mamzelle Lalande," they would say, thrusting 
forth a beautifully shod foot, and looking at it approv- 
ingly, " vous ne savvy pas les Americaines. A New 
York nous trouvons cette espece de chose que vous 
parliez parfaitement ridiqioole, vous savvy." The aplomb 
with which they would fire off their atrocious French was 
simply great. If, after any such speech, the argument 
showed signs of prolonging itself, an attack of " noivous 
prawstration " immediately took place, with complete 
success. In those days I thought that this was a strange 
disease which only attacked American girls. Children 
certainly have some queer beliefs, for I knew an American 
girl who, as a child, was so firmly convinced that her 
country was able to outdo all others, that for years she 
thought no one but Americans were able to have indiges- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 53 

tion. Later on she thought it was a curious privilege 
which did not extend beyond her own immediate family 
circle, a sort of hall-mark of distinction like that which 
enables you to keep your hat on in the presence of the 
King. 

As to American children of my own age, I felt a mere 
baby in their company. On one never-to-be-forgotten 
occasion the twelve-year-old daughter of a New York 
banker, Miss Allie G , who used to come to the danc- 
ing class at Rue Kepler, made me feel not only like a baby, 
but like a baby-worm ! 

On the afternoon of my great humiliation, kind Miss 
Morton had taken me to " Old England," the big shop 
on the Boulevard where they supply a great number of 
excellent English goods, and where she was going to buy 
me a new hat for everyday wear. My boyish instincts 
were still alive, and I had pleaded so hard to be allowed 
to have an English sailor hat that Mademoiselle Lalande 
had at last given in, though it was quite against her 
principles to let me wear anything so rakish ! But even 
Miss Morton had been on my side ; after all, I was only 
eleven it would hardly have been natural had I wished 
to wear a velvet bonnet with a sable tail, though that 
happened to be the fashion just then for ladies of Mademoi- 
selle Lalande's age. Well, we had just secured seats in 
the omnibus that was to take us home, and I was nursing 
my new hat quite happily on my lap when the conductor 
pulled up again to take in two more passengers Miss 
Allie G and her maid. Allie was, as usual, beauti- 
fully dressed, and looked like a vision from that desirable 
world where everyone does exactly what pleases them 
best, and economy is a thing unknown. She sat down 
beside me and immediately noticed my parcel. 

" Been shawpping ? " she inquired airily, through her 
pretty nose. 
I nodded. 

" Let's have a look." 

" It's only a sailor hat," I said, feeling suddenly that 
she would think it hideous. 




54 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" Oh," she said, " one of those nice velvet ones, I 
guess, with a band of moire* ribbon that's the sort I 
always buy to go around in the morning." 

" No," I said humbly (wishing passionately that I 
could have said, " Yes, of course "), " no, it's only made 
of toile cire*e." 

Dead silence. I suppose she couldn't believe her 
ears. 

" Do you import your clothes ? " was her next ques- 
tion. She tossed off this amazing query as though the 
wardrobe of a child of eleven was, as a matter of course, 
under her own control. 

: I squirmed. I longed to say I had imported my 
clothes from Paris from the day of my birth. Not in 
vain, however, had I been brought up on Ananias and 
Sapphira, and with bitter regret I told the truth. I knew 
to what depths I should sink in the estimation of Miss 
Allie G . 

" We always do," she went on, drawing herself up 
with the air of a seasoned woman of the world. " We 
live in New York. Mama imports all her clothes, and I 
import all mine it's the only thing to do." 

By this time I felt not only a worm but a worm of 
doubtful, not to say criminal lineage, for my mother 
most certainly had never thought it the least neces- 
sary to import her clothes from Paris when she lived 
elsewhere, although she had passed more than half 
her life in France ; as for me, I was being brought up 
according to French ideas, which decree that a child at 
school should be dressed with a simplicity bordering on 
the verge of downright ugliness. I writhed as I looked 
down on my hideous black cotton gloves, and then at the 
six-button " gants de Suede " of the little American, at 
her beautifully made " suit " and dainty hat. My love 
of beautiful clothes dates, I honestly believe, from that 
afternoon, and it has never left me, though I have seldom 
been able to indulge it ; but oh, the joy when I have 
thrown discretion to the winds and shopped recklessly 
in the Rue de la Paix regardless of consequences ! 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 55 

But every dog has its day ! When holiday time drew 
near I also became the possessor of a charming hat and 
a trim little suit, and when I was allowed to buy myself 
a beautiful pair of long buttoned boots, finished off at 
the top with little tassels, my cup of bliss was full to 
overflowing. I did my duty by those pretty boots 
I fainted in church and was carried out by two members 
of the congregation, who, it is to be hoped, admired them 
as much as I did, for my first words on recovering con- 
sciousness were, " Anyhow, it was a good thing I had on 

those boots." No longer was Miss Allie G " the 

only pebble on the beach." She was obliged to share it 
with me, whether she liked it or not. 

I travelled back to England alone, under the charge of 
the guard, who saw me safely on to the boat. I didn't 
lose my head on the journey, but I did lose my hat, which 
was blown overboard. Much I cared ! there were too 
many humiliating memories connected with that sailor 
hat for me to regret its loss. 

The first days of my holidays were spent with my 
cousins, the Robertsons, at Brewood. They at once began 
to jeer at my French clothes. " You've got on top-boots, 
like a man," they said scornfully ; " why don't you wear 
decent things like ours ? " The " decent things " were low 
boots with elastic sides hideous things, made in the village 
but they themselves were so pretty that it didn't matter 
in the least what they wore, they always looked nice. 

This time, however, I was invulnerable. For staying 
in the house was our trustee, Mr. Rose-Innes, and from the 
very first moment we met, he took me under his wing, and 
made me feel that I had a friend who would always be on 
my side as long as he lived. I grew to love him dearly, 
and had every reason to do so. 

My mother, who was not at all musical, was dreadfully 
disappointed with the results of my musical studies in 
Paris, but Mr. Rose-Innes (whom we always called Mr. 
Innes) told her she was quite mistaken, and that I had been 
extremely well taught. Of course Mr. Jaques Baur, who 
was really a fine artist, had not wasted either his time or 



56 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

mine by giving me any of the " showy " drawing-room 
pieces that were the fashion just then in England, and no 
one appreciated this more than Mr. Innes, who assured my 
mother I could not possibly be in better hands, and that 
she would realise the truth of his words in the years to 
come. It was during these holidays that he took my 
sisters to the Birmingham Festival, and it was when they 
returned that for the first time I heard of the famous 
baritone, Charles Santley. They spoke so enthusiasti- 
cally about his magnificent singing that I could hardly 
resign myself to the fact that I had been left behind. 

1 How little I thought then, that I was to make my first 
bow to the real public hand in hand with the great singer, 
when for the first time he sang my song, " Absent yet 
Present," at a crowded " Monday Pop." But those 
days were still very far away. I was only just twelve 
years old. Who knows whether, if I had been taken to 
hear him then, I would have proved any more appreciative 
than the little son of Madame de Navarro (the celebrated 
and beautiful Mary Anderson of former days). He is a 
boy of seventeen now, and one of the most sincere young 
music lovers I have ever known. He loved music even as 
a tiny child, and on the strength of his achievements on 
the piano his mother took him when he was only ten 
years old to hear Elijah at the Birmingham Festival. I 
have known him from his birth, as his parents and I lived 
next door to each other for years in the lovely little village 
of Broadway in Worcestershire, and " Toty " and I often 
had confidential chats together. On their return from 
Birmingham we had one of these talks, " a quattr' occhi," 
and I said to him 

4 Toty, do tell me what you enjoyed most at the 
Festival ? " He thought for a while, and then said, 
almost surreptitiously 

" Well, if you really want to know what I liked best, 
really and truly best in the whole Festival, it was John 
Harrison's moustache." 

I dare say if half the tiara-wearing ladies of Covent 
Garden were to tell the plain unvarnished truth after a 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 57 

performance of the Ring, for instance, their answers might 
be quite as irrelevant as that of Mary Anderson's little son. 

That summer I drove with my mother and one of my 
sisters, in our small phaeton, from Staffordshire to 
Merionethshire, where we were to spend a few weeks by 
the sea. It was a delicious experience, though I dare say 
in these days of motor-cars we should think it a tedious 
way of travelling. But the scenery was so lovely and so 
was the weather that I enjoyed every moment of the day. 
I have lately come to the conclusion that I have a capacity 
for enjoyment that is absolutely unlimited, for even now 
it shows no signs of abatement. 

I expect the good fairy " Joie de vivre " accompanies 
some of us through life and casts her beautiful shadow over 
the path we tread from the cradle to the grave. Even 
when life locks us up from time to time in the dark prison 
of sorrow, she slips in with us and begs the gaoler to be 
merciful to her dear ones, and when he locks the door upon 
us, she persuades him to leave the key with her, and it is 
never long before we again escape together into the blessed 
sunshine ! 

I learned the slow movement of the Beethoven C 
sharp minor sonata during those holidays. My sister 
Annie taught it to me. It was to her that, many years 
afterwards, when she was far away in South America, I 
dedicated my song, " Absent yet Present." She was the 
ideal grown-up sister to all of us ; it was she who shared 
our games, told us stories by the hour, and took our part 
whenever we got into trouble. It was she who was the 
favourite cousin of every boy and girl in the family, and 
it was she with whom my brothers' schoolfellows fell hope- 
lessly in love when they came to Pendef ord. One of them, 
who shall be nameless, for he is married to someone else, 
and is not only a father but a grandfather into the bargain, 
actually went the length of having her name tattooed 
upon his arm, and though none of us followed his example, 
perhaps her name is still more indelibly engraved upon the 
hearts of her brothers and sisters who are still alive and 
who love her as dearly as they ever did in days long past 



CHAPTER V. 

MY second and third year in Paris were rather differ- 
ent from the first one. My beloved Madame Navarro 
d'Andrade was still there, but none of the other grown-up 
people seemed particularly interesting to me when I 
returned after the first holidays. 

On the other hand, there were a good many more 
pupils ; some of them were not far from my own age, 
and though I was still the youngest of them all, I was 
no longer the only child to be petted and spoiled by 
kind guests I was just one of the crowd. 

We worked really hard. From 7.30 to 8.30 we had 
a German lesson ; after that we had prayers ; we also 
read a chapter in the Bible, each pupil in turn reading 
a verse. One morning the whole class disgraced itself 
by giggling en masse at the mistake made by a rotund 
damsel of nineteen who stammered quite dreadfully. 
She went through a regular process of spluttering and 
choking that was embarrassing to the last degree. The 
blood surged to her face, her eyes filled with tears, and 
her lips protruded like those of an anxious negro in the 
effort to dislodge the obstinate word which tossed about 
on her pouting lips like a paper boat on an angry sea. 
We all sat staring at the poor thing waiting for the 
mysterious bomb to burst which would shatter the 
word to pieces and fling it forth upon our expectant ears. 

On this particular morning she had to read a verse 
from the seventh chapter of St. Paul's First Epistle to 
the Corinthians, containing the sentence, " How knowest 
thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife ? " But 
she read it, " How knowest thou, O man, whether thou 
shalt shave thy wife ? " whereupon a yell of delight 

5 8 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 59 

went up that lasted so long that the class had to be 
broken up. 

Breakfast, consisting of coffee and " petits pains," 
took place at nine o'clock. During my first year I had 
always been allowed to order what I liked best on 
Sunday morning, and a cup of chocolate accompanied by 
a boiled egg figured with monotonous regularity on my 
little menu. Mademoiselle Mathilde, the resident music- 
mistress, whose brother was an opera singer, thoroughly 
approved of this arrangement. 

" C'est comme cela," she said cheerily, " qu'on fait 
aimer le Dimanche aux petits enfants." 

I don't know whether St. Francis of Assisi or St. 
John of the Cross would have approved of her argument, 
but mercifully neither of them were there to raise vexed 
questions. 

I generally had a headache and felt squeamish on 
Sunday afternoons, but I took good care to keep this 
fact to myself, for if there was one thing on earth I 
delighted in, it was that cup of chocolate and that egg. 

One Monday morning, however, the consequences of 
the dominical orgy were so disastrous that it was tabooed 
in cetei'num. My sister Emily and many other cousins 
went to that school a few years later, but not one of 
them ever succeeded in coaxing a cup of chocolate and 
a boiled egg out of Mademoiselle Lalande. When they 
plaintively protested, they always received the same 
answer : " Ma chere, tu sais parfaitement bien que 
Maude avait tou jours mal au cceur quand on lui permettait 
de prendre une tasse de chocolat avec un ceuf." In 
vain they argued that though the family features might 
resemble each other, the family insides might be very 
different, but they always received the same answer : 
" Ma chere, tu sais parfaitement bien," etc. etc. Poor 
things ! They can't have blessed my memory. 

Most of the day was devoted to preparing our lessons 
for the " Cours " of Monsieur Levi d' Alvarez, a very 
well-known professor of that time who held classes for 
girls. They were very well attended. Nearly all the 



60 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

pupils were French. Two of Be"ranger's granddaughters 
were among the nicest girls there. They were charming 
and extremely pretty children of twelve and fourteen. 
Both spoke English beautifully too beautifully 
altogether in the opinion of Monsieur Levi d' Alvarez, 
for his wrath, when on one occasion Claire, the eldest, 
made some trifling grammatical mistake, was positively 
frightening. " Quand on a 1'honneur d'etre la petite- 
fille de B6ranger," he cried indignantly, " au moins on 
n'6corche pas la langue Franyaise." He almost attacked 
her, and poured forth a torrent of sarcasm on the 
absurdity of learning foreign languages before one was 
able to speak one's own correctly. The poor child was 
terrified. 

No doubt it is very stupid to make mistakes in one's 
native language, but all I can say is that one sometimes 
makes them in uncommonly good company. I remember 
the late Lord Northampton, who was a very kind friend 
of mine to the day of his death, asking me if I had ever, 
during the whole course of my existence, heard anyone 
speak of the India Office as anything but the India 
Roffice. I have heard a man whose name is known all 
over the English-speaking world say " my year " instead 
of " my ear " ! And once at a great house in London, 
after I had finished accompanying a beautiful young 
girl in my song " How do I love thee," Lord Northampton, 
who happened to be at the party, came up to me and 
said, " Do, do try and persuade her not to ruin those 
lovely words of Mrs. Browning by saying, ' Heow, he*ow, 
do I love thee.' ' I told him I had done my very best, 
but she clung to her Cockney pronunciation of the word 
as though she suspected me of trying to rob her of it 
for my own benefit. Certainly nothing that I could say 
or do was able to induce her to part with it. However, 
people in glass houses should not throw stones ! The 
late Lord Tennyson once told me that my own English 
was abominable, and far be it from me to deny it ; for 
anyone who has read up to this chapter will probably 
have found it out for himself. He hated slang, and I 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 61 

am afraid I used several unorthodox words during a 
conversation we once had. He pitched into me quite 
unmercifully, till at last I offered to continue our talk 
in Spanish ! Then he laughed, and said I had him there, 
as he could not speak one word of that language. I 
would have enjoyed my little victory far better had I 
not read somewhere that some great man I forget who 
once said it was a pity to know too many languages, 
as one was quite enough in which to make a fool of 
oneself. 

Another interesting pupil who used to go to the class 
of Monsieur Levi Alvarez was Emilie Mocquart, the 
delightful little daughter of the clever and witty Monsieur 
Mocquart who was secretary to Napoleon in. She was 
not exactly good-looking, and she had a slight defect in 
her speech, but her little face was charming and intelli- 
gent, and her personality was very sympathetic. One 
day Monsieur Levi d' Alvarez asked us if we could tell him 
what were the absolutely necessary attributes of a picture. 
Some of the answers were not bad, but no one thought of 
saying that shade as well as light was an important 
factor. To all our answers he kept on saying, " Tres bien, 
mes enfants, mais il y a encore quelquechose qui est 
absolument ne*cessaire." At last little Mademoiselle 
Mocquart had an inspiration. " Monsieur," she cried 
eagerly, " c'est le cadre ! " 

A German governess superintended our afternoon 
studies and conscientiously did her best to poison the 
hours she spent with us. She was susceptibility in prop, 
pers. Eighty-eight per cent, of middle-class Germans, 
and certainly ninety-nine per cent, of German gover- 
nesses, according to my experience, live in a chronic state 
of what for want of a better word I will call " Semi- 
Offence." They don't fly into honest rages like the rest 
of the world ; indeed, to go to the kitchen for a simile, 
they don't boil over, they mysteriously simmer ! For 
hours together it is impossible to know what has offended 
them. Sometimes they don't even simmer ! They retire 
into private little polar regions of their own and freeze 



62 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

up altogether. These private little polar regions are 
evidently strictly entailed, for I never yet met a German 
governess who wasn't the possessor of a few frozen acres. 
And they are such exemplary landladies ! Dear old Mel 
was the only occasional absentee I ever came across ! 

I never knew one who wasn't the victim of some deadly 
wrong at least twice a week. Did anyone call Fraulein 

von Fraulein , omitting the " von," there was a 

regular scene. The " von " had of course been left out 
with the deliberate intention of insulting her, and for the 
rest of the day she would refuse to speak to the innocent 
criminal except in haughty monosyllables. Did a pupil 
smile during the class, she at once jumped to the con- 
clusion that she was sneering at her, and would refer 
hysterically to her distinguished ancestors, giving us to 
understand that generations and generations of Hoch- 

wohlgeboren von s were at that very moment writhing 

in their graves at the mere thought that a scion of their 
noble family should be reduced to earning her daily bread 
by associating with an untitled crowd of insignificant little 
schoolgirls like ourselves. 

Poor thing ! she climbed up that family tree till her legs 
must have ached ! 

I couldn't bear her, and there was no doubt that she 
disliked me more than any of the others. Perhaps for 
the same reason that the prophet Jeremiah disliked the 
poet Le Franc, who translated his Lamentations and, I 
am afraid, translated them very indifferently. A witty 
Frenchman at the time of their publication wrote the 
following lines : 

" Savez vous pourquoi Jeremie 
A tant pleure pendant sa vie ? 
C'est qu'en prophete il prevoyait 
Qu'un jour Le Franc le traduirait ! " 

Perhaps Fraulein von - - felt in her bones that I 
was " taking stock " of her for future purposes ! 

Once, and once only, did I get the better of her ! Some 
money was missing, and she actually accused me of having 
stolen it. She turned me out of the schoolroom and refused 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 63 

to allow me to associate with the others till I had restored 
it. But the top of the schoolroom door was made of 
glass, and I remember how I stood in the passage outside 
trembling with rage and shaking my fist at her, while a 
dear schoolfellow, some few years older than myself 
and the best friend I had during the whole of my school- 
life (her name was Selma, and she has been married for 
many a long year to a professor in Boston), bearded the 
lioness in her den and stood up bravely for me and told 
her what she thought of her. 

Of course the whole thing was cleared up perfectly 
satisfactorily, but I was in such a state of fury and in- 
dignation that Mademoiselle Lalande insisted on her 
apologising to me. I tried hard to be magnanimous 
when I heard what was to happen, for I realised that to 
beg my pardon would be absolute agony to her. But I 
didn't succeed in the very least. She had raised a lusty 
little devil in me that secretly capered with joy over her 
downfall, and though to the very last I tried to heap coals 
of fire on her sleek head, I would certainly not have been 
in the least distressed had they set her hair ablaze and 
left her completely bald. 

She was a rabid anti-Catholic. Luther was her hero, 
her god. We studied German history with her, and when 
we came to the Reformation she was in her element. 
Day after day she fed us on the Diet of Worms. No 
wonder that after a week or two of this succulent dish 
I began to feel seriously ill I who couldn't even digest 
a cup of delicious French chocolate and a fresh egg ! 
Joking apart, my health really began to break down under 
her hateful severity and unkindness, and I wrote such 
desperate letters to my mother that at last she forbade me 
to go on studying with her. My nerves were all to pieces, 
and the doctor ordered special baths, to which I was 
taken several times a week, and which did me a great deal 
of good. One day we were kept waiting in the anteroom 
for a little while, and seeing a book lying on the table I 
took it up and began to read. I wish to goodness I could 
remember the name of that book. It was a tiny little 



64 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

volume hoary with age. The opening page contained as 
far as I can remember the graphic account of a quarrel 
between a man and his wife. He cursed the whole race 
of women, and even had his knife into poor innocent Adam 
for consenting to the surgical operation of which Eve was 
the result. When he further realised that she was the 
universal mother of us all and that without her his wife 
would never have existed, he lifted up his voice and 
wept. " Ah, funeste cotelette, c'est toi qui m'as gate la 
vie ! " 

I always practised the piano for two hours a day. 
What a relief it was to be alone for a little while doing 
something I really cared for ! I liked my music-teacher, 

Monsieur Baur, and he (unlike Fraulein von ) 

liked me and encouraged me very much. I learnt to play 
compositions by Bach, Beethoven, Haydn, Chopin, and 
Mendelssohn. One day he told me to get Mozart's 
Symphonies arranged for four hands, and at my next 
lesson we played through the first movement of the 
G Minor. How I loved it ! Even now the first page of 
that symphony moves me as few other things have power 
to do. There are three pieces of music which seem to 
me to breathe the very essence of the spirit of youth. 
One of them is the subject with which the G Minor 
Symphony of Mozart opens : it is like the fleeting melan- 
choly that sometimes falls like a gossamer veil over the 
tender, impressionable heart of youth, that longs, it hardly 
knows for what. Another is the beautiful song in the 
Meistersinger, " Am stillen Herd," with its heavenly 
little prelude and its delicate, exquisite orchestration : 
it seems to me like gifted youth awakening to a sense 
of its own genius and bravely determined to go its own 
way ; like gallant youth for whom no difficulties exist ; 
like enthusiastic youth to whom even the stars seem not 
wholly unattainable ! 

And the third is Schumann's glorious " Friihlingslied." 
Isn't it like the ecstasy of youth ? Can't one almost hear 
the heart of youth quivering with excitement, the sky, 
the sea, the mountains, the trees, the flowers, the beloved 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 65 

confidants of its hopes and fears ? Oh, that wonderful 
heart of youth overflowing with love and waiting so 
tremulously and often so humbly to be loved in 
return ! 

My young friend Jose de Navarro, when he was quite 
a little boy, once asked his mother if when saying his 
morning and evening prayers, he might pray for anyone 
he liked. His mother said of course he might. What 
was her astonishment when next day the baby music- 
lover said, " God bless Beethoven and Brahms." Well, 
that is how I feel about my three composers. That 
instinct of a little child was touching and beautiful. 
We are all glad enough to take the splendid gifts of 
genius, but how many of us feel personally grateful to 
the geniuses themselves ? I think, and I have always 
thought, that gratitude is one of the most lovable virtues 
in the world. Never shall I forget a little scene which 
once took place just outside the Duomo in Taormina, 
where I lived for many years. It was, I think, the year 
after the frightful Messina earthquake. As I came out 
of the church one Sunday morning after Mass, three pale 
little children dressed in black ran up to me and kissed 
my hand. I didn't know who they were, they asked 
for nothing. I was rather surprised at their attitude, for 
one is often persecuted in the streets of Taormina by 
children clamouring for soldi, so I said to them, " I 
don't think I know any of you, how is it you seem to 
know me ? " The eldest child looked at me with her great 
eyes, and said quite simply, " You gave us bread." I 
have never forgotten that little scene. I never shall. 

We were made to work very hard at Rue Kepler 
during the winter, far too hard as far as I was concerned ; 
for my health, very indifferent at the best of times, began 
to suffer seriously in consequence of the strain put upon 
it. We did not get half enough exercise ; only one hour's 
walk in the middle of the day, no regular games, no 
recreation of any sort except dancing and gymnastic 
lessons once every alternate week. The dancing lessons 
were given by the celebrated Madame Taglioni. Of 
5 



66 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

course we all knew that she had been the most famous 
dancer of her time and that in her youth she had had 
the world at her feet, so one evening when she said to 
me, " Allons ! Faisons un tour ensemble," I could have 
hugged her, especially when, a moment later, she turned 
round to Mademoiselle Lalande, who was watching us, 
and said 

" La petite valsera bien." 

I adored dancing, and now that the unkind years 
have brought that arch-fiend rheumatism in their 
train, and I can dance no more (except now and again 
with rage when the dressmaker sends home a more than 
usually triumphant misfit), I heartily enjoy playing for 
others to dance. 

Madame Tagliorii sometimes brought her little Russian 
granddaughter with her when she came to give us our 
lesson. She was a mongrel little princess with a vengeance ! 
Her mother, Madame Taglioni's only daughter, had 
married Prince Troubetzkoy. Madame Taglioni (herself 
an Italian) had married Comte Gilbert des Voisins, a 
Frenchman. And to complicate matters she had Swedish 
as well as Italian blood in her veins, for her grandfather 
was a famous Swedish singer called Karsten. It seemed 
to me very strange indeed that you could be a princess 
when your father wasn't a king, and when you lived in 
a flat like everybody else, instead of in a. palace like the 
Tuileries. A little girl with a snub nose and wee little 
Tartar eyes, whose evening dress was a sort of glorified 
alpaca pinafore, did not correspond at all to my idea of 
what so exalted a personage should look like. My little 

American friend, Miss Alice G (who imported her 

clothes from Paris whenever she found herself in New 
York), cut a very different figure when she came to Rue 
Kepler to be taught by Madame Taglioni. When her filmy 
skirts flew up as she danced joyously round the room, it 
was only to reveal still more wonderful little petticoats all 
trimmed with Valenciennes lace. Oh, those petticoats ! 
I would cheerfully have consented to live on dry bread for 
a fortnight could I have possessed even one of them ! 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 67 

Once a week we had gymnastic lessons with a Polish 
lady Mademoiselle Sierawska. The only thing I re- 
member about her is that she was always talking about 
her experiences with Monsieur Un-Tel and Madame Une- 
Telle. I thought they were old and valued friends of 
hers a married couple and wondered again and again 
why in the world she pronounced their names differently 
whenever she mentioned them to us ! 

As to the gymnastic lessons they were just like any 
others. I, as usual, was made to wear a frightening 
costume, consisting of a horrid, shapeless little tunic, 
and equally horrid, shapeless little knickerbockers. It 
was as ugly as the Spanish gentleman's waistcoat described 
by Fernan Caballero as " insolente de feo." It was like 
the dreadful sort of reach-me-down suit that a shy little 
orang-outang might wear if suddenly called upon to 
join in mixed bathing with a bevy of old-maid gorillas of 
unusual modesty. 

I suppose dear old Mademoiselle Lalande thought that 
hideous clothes were good for the soul ! She was cer- 
tainly under the impression that the uglier the dress the 
more surely would the Cardinal Virtues settle down for 
life between its ungainly folds. Was it not perfectly 
natural for any normal woman-child to long for a really 
charming frock, if only for a change ? The sort of frock 
in which the seven deadly sins, for instance, might 
sometimes care to spend a gay week-end ! 

Now and again English friends turned up in Paris 
and would come to take me out for the day. This was a 
great treat. On one of these occasions we went to Ver- 
sailles ; the party consisted of a brother, two sisters, 
and myself ; they presented me with a box of chocolates 
before we started, and I am afraid I dedicated far more 
attention to that box than I did to the famous State 
Apartments ! But I loved the gardens and the fountains. 
They were not wasted on me. 

That evening there was a magnificent sunset, and I 
remember distinctly stealing away by myself and sitting 
on the grass at the edge of a long sheet of water to watch 



68 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

the glorious procession of colours as they melted into 
each other and gradually faded away. 

Even as a little child I loved to be alone with my 
dreams, and that evening my imagination flew away 
with me to a fantastic country in the sky, where moun- 
tains of fire towered one above the other, where golden 
meadows lay smiling at their feet, and soft little clouds 
like fairy boats sailed peacefully across an ocean of 
mystical and ethereal beauty. And then that dearest of 
companions dropped me gently into one of those fairy 
boats, and together we floated away, away across the 
magical sea, into unlimited space ! 

A few days later one of my schoolfellows asked me to 
write in her confession book ; when I came to the ques- 
tion : " What is your idea of happiness ? " I wrote in 
perfect good faith : " To look at a beautiful sunset while 
eating chocolate ! " 

And down I fell from the clouds into the outstretched 
arms of greedy " Little Mary " ! 

My school life in Paris was rapidly coming to an end, 
though I was not yet quite fourteen. One day my 
mother wrote to say that her brother, Frederick Harring- 
ton, had returned from South America, that he was going 
to spend a week or two in France, and that he would 
take me back to England with him. I didn't know my 
uncle, but I was quite nervous at the idea of meeting him. 
For he, and he alone, had it in his power to reveal a 
secret that had been carefully locked in my breast for 
one whole year ! I had done something that I felt 
perfectly certain would cause Mademoiselle Lalande's 
hair both back and front to stand on end, should it 
ever come to her ears (I mean my crime, not her hair). 
Something that she would condemn as inconvenable to 
the last degree, not to say downright rakish and im- 
proper. And now to make a clean breast of it. It was, 
as the servants would say, " all along of " Mademoiselle 
Mathilde, our resident music-mistress. I thought her 
most attractive and delightful, and was devoted to her. 
Mademoiselle Lalande's outlook differed radically from 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 69 

mine. In her opinion she was a cut between a siren 
and a minx ! But then I am bound to say she was always 
suspicious of anything or anybody of unusual attraction. 
To quote a funny old masseuse who once attended me, 
and who was a regular Mrs. Malaprop, she thought there 
was something very " superstitious " about attractive 
people. Therefore when the fascinating Mademoiselle 
Mathilde introduced me sub rosa (not to say sub rosissima) 
to her equally fascinating brother, the opera-singer, it 
goes without saying that we both came to the conclusion 
that it would be just as well to keep this little episode 
to ourselves. He had just been engaged to sing in 
Valparaiso and Santiago. He had no friends there. 
But Mademoiselle Mathilde happened to know that I had 
relations in Valparaiso, and being a kind sister as well as 
a siren and a minx, she wished me to meet her brother 
in order that I might give him a letter of introduction 
to my Uncle Fred. There was only one difficulty in the 
way. I didn't happen to know him, and as he lived at 
the other end of the world, and hadn't been in Europe 
for years, there was no reason to suppose that he was 
even aware of my existence ! After a few moments of 
anxious reflection we all agreed to hope that my mother 
had sent him the English equivalent of a lettre de faire 
part on the great occasion of my birth. But what was I 
to say to my uncle ? I hadn't the vaguest idea how to 
write introducing a gentleman I had known for a few 
minutes to another I didn't know at all ! However, I 
tackled to, and finally produced an epistle which was 
pronounced perfectly satisfactory by both brother and 
sister. I don't know how they came to this conclusion, 
seeing that neither of them understood a word of English ! 
But it was certainly very kind of them to feel so sure 
that I had done my best. 

After Signor Altavilla (that was his stage-name) had 
bowed himself out of the drawing-room (I have a vague 
recollection that he improved the shining hour by kissing 
my hand) I rushed upstairs to my room again as fast 
as my trembling little legs could carry me. For Made- 



70 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

moiselle Lalande was a Frenchwoman of the old school. 
An actor or opera-singer in her opinion had no right 
to exist except on the stage. Tous ces gens Id were 
taboo. Had she found Signor Altavilla talking to me, 
there would have been a regular scene. But had she 
caught him kissing my hand, she would have " raised 
Cain " ! (to use an Americanism). 

And now my imagination began to torment me. 
What would happen if I were found out ? What would 
happen if my uncle wrote to my mother and my mother 
wrote to Mademoiselle Lalande ? I felt sick with appre- 
hension. A veritable reign of terror commenced for me. 
I began to feel that writing a letter of introduction for 
Signor Altavilla was next door but one to eloping with 
him. Would I be obliged to marry him when I grew 
up ? I lay awake for hours in a cold perspiration at an 
appalling thought that had begun to haunt me. Was 
I irrevocably in Signor Altavilla's power ? Would he, 
could he, wreck my life ? I feared he could. Would 
people cut me dead when I returned to England ? In 
fact, to put the whole matter in a nutshell, was I, or 
was I not, a -woman with a Past. 

And now I was actually to meet my uncle ! I was 
frightened to death when they came to tell me that he 
was in the drawing-room waiting to see me. Well, 
there was no help for it, I had to face the music. My 
relief and unbounded joy can be imagined when, after a 
few minutes' conversation, he said, " By the way, Maude, 
what a nice fellow that friend of yours is ! Altavilla, 
you know. I liked him very much indeed. So did 
everyone, and he made a great success at the opera." 

Had I been quite Irish I am positively certain that I 
would have gone down on my knees there and then and 
breathed a fervent " Glory be," but being half English 
I restricted myself to a silent though jubilant thanks- 
giving ! 

My uncle thoroughly spoiled me during his visit to 
Paris. He took me out constantly and introduced me 
to several of his French friends. And one day he even 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 71 

let me accompany him to the Ministere de la Marine, to 
see Monsieur Rene de Laboulaye, the son of my mother's 
old friend. I had never thought to penetrate into so im- 
posing a building, and was greatly excited. To know 
Monsieur Rene was almost as grand as to know an attache* 
(the goal of my ambition !) 

Had I known then that he was the brother of a future 
ambassador to Russia, whose acquaintance I was to 
make some years later, I believe I might have succumbed 
to a violent and incurable attack of megalomania ! 

My last experience in Paris was thoroughly character- 
istic of that delightful city. I was escorted to a hat 
shop by two charming French ladies, friends of my 
Uncle Fred, and initiated into the proper way of buying 
a hat. It certainly was not Mademoiselle Lalande's way I 
It was far more thrilling. To begin with, my old hat 
was removed with shrill cries of horror and indignation 

by Madame B and her assistants. I may say it 

was literally hissed off my head. After these prelimin- 
aries the two French ladies sank back in their chairs 
and looked as if they were going to make a day of it. 
Then the shop was ransacked for my benefit. My 
friends were quite determined that, for once, at any rate, 
I was to be "coiffee a la perfection." Goodness knows 
I was just as keen as they were, and stood excitedly in the 
middle of the room, surrounded by mirrors, into which 
I longed to gaze at myself as each successive hat was 
tried on. I should certainly have done so, but I felt 
far too shy to admire myself in front of so many other 
people. At last a beautiful little toque was discovered and 
placed at a coquettish angle on my head amidst thunders 
of applause. I thought regretfully that the stance was at 
an end, but I was quite mistaken ; it was only now that it 

had begun in dead earnest. Madame B , the only one 

of the party who had kept cool during the enthusiasm 
roused by my sudden transformation, had evidently a good 
deal more to say on the subject. She drew back a few 
paces and surveyed me critically. So may William Tell 
have surveyed the apple-crowned head of his little son. 



72 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

44 Je ne sais pas ce que c'est," she murmured anxiously ; 
44 c'est un de nos plus beaux modeles pourtant. . . ." 

Another long silence. It was broken at last by the 
head saleswoman. 

" Madame," she said, with a little shrug of her 
shoulders, " pour moi, il faut absolument des fleurs a ce 
chapeau la." 

There was an immediate chorus of approval, led 

generously by Madame B . She looked admiringly 

at the girl with a " Cette-petite-ira-loin " expression on 
her face. Someone was immediately dispatched for a 
box of flowers. The next moment they were all tossed 
aside with a " Non, non, non, ce n'est pas $a ! Ce qu'il 
nous faut. . . ." Another pregnant silence. Then after 
a moment's hesitation she said in a voice that held a note 
of triumph 

" Mesdames, ce qu'il nous faut c'est une rose, une 
rose pale ! " 

The assistant, who looked as if she would " go far," 
said in a voice that sank to a whisper on the last word 

44 Madame a parfaitement raison, pourvu que la rose 
soit tres, tres pale sans cela. ..." 

A shrug of the shoulders intimated that she refused 
all further responsibility in the event of her advice being 
disregarded. 

But Madame B was equal to the occasion. In 

a voix blanche (the sort of voice in which heroines say, 
44 Where am I ? " at the end of the third act, on 
recovering from a fainting-fit) she murmured 

44 Mesdames, il faut meme que la rose soit ex ... 
ces ... si ... vement pa - . . ! " 

The two last letters died in silent ecstasy upon her 
lips. Their last moments were as edifying as any saint's. 
And there wasn't a woman in the room, including my- 
self, who did not know to a nicety the exact shade of 
the rose that was to be the crowning glory of my toque ! 

A few days later I left Paris with my uncle. Before 
returning to England we spent some delightful days at a 
chateau in Normandy belonging to old friends of his. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 73 

Haymaking was in full swing on every hillside, and I 
could hardly be persuaded to spend a moment indoors. 
One day my uncle nearly had a fit ! Liberty and the 
sun combined had proved too much for me. Shamelessly 
and happily I was rolling down the hill in front of the 
house, gathering, not roses, but hay, " while I might." His 
horror was all the greater, inasmuch as he had begun to 
look upon me almost as a grown-up young lady ; he had 
even taken a certain amount of pride in showing me off 
to his friends, because I spoke three languages and played 
the piano whenever I was asked. Much I cared for the 
three languages and the piano-playing ! And as for 
any French polish that I might have acquired at Rue 
Kepler it can have been nothing but very inferior Nubian 
blacking, for it melted away in the twinkling of an eye 
among the golden haycocks on the lovely, sunbathed 
hills of Normandy, 



CHAPTER VI. 

I NEVER went back to Rue Kepler. 

Our trustee, Mr. Rose-Innes, who had been in South 
America for some time, arrived in England a month or two 
before my uncle and myself. His wife and family were to 
follow him in a few weeks. When he heard from my 
mother how unsatisfactory my health had been in Paris, 
he begged her to let me come and live in London with 
them, suggesting that I should finish my education with 
his eldest daughter, who was only a year older than myself. 
This arrangement he thought would really prove a mutual 
advantage. I would be nearer home in case of illness, and 
his daughter would have a companion of her own age. He 
urged with perfect truth that in London I could have the 
best of everything in the way of tuition, and of course 
this greatly influenced my mother, who had just settled 
down in a country house in Cheshire, not far from the little 
town of Nantwich. I had had such exceptional advan- 
tages in Paris that she felt it would not be fair to bury me 
in the country at the age of fourteen, in a place where it 
was quite impossible to get hold of good masters. After 
a little persuasion she agreed to accept Mr. Rose-Innes' 
offer, and when the holidays came to an end she took me 
up to London to make the acquaintance of the rest of the 
family. After about a week she returned home, leaving 
me with them. I was to stay till the following Christmas, 
and if everything went well, I was to spend two years 
with them in London. 

Mrs. Rose-Innes was a Chilian, and everyone in the 
house spoke Spanish, with the exception, of course, of the 
English servants. I was delighted with the opportunity 
of adding another language to my repertoire, especially 

74 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 75 

as Spanish is not only beautiful but extremely easy. The 
Spanish spoken in Chile is exactly like that of Andalusia. 
When I was in Seville some years ago, it seemed wonder- 
fully familiar to me. I had just come from Madrid, where 
they speak quite differently and far more correctly, but, 
all the same, there is a sort of slipshod charm about the 
Andalusian Spanish that is rather attractive. How easy 
a language it is may be inferred from the fact that I learnt 
to speak it quite fluently in five months. I am afraid I 
made a perfect nuisance of myself during the whole of that 
period, for as soon as I knew a few words I began to write 
letters to the entire family. No one could go to bed with- 
out finding a note, in execrable Spanish, pinned to his 
or her pillow. I even victimised the nurse, a sweet and 
gentle woman whose name was Avelina. She always 
called me "La Senorita Mor." The Chilians of the 
upper classes are mostly of Spanish descent, but the lower 
classes have intermarried to such a degree with the 
Araucanian Indians, that they are of quite another type 
rather short, very dark, with masses of black hair and 
extremely low foreheads, while their features are blunt, 
and their eyes, as a rule, dark brown and very large. The 
kindness of these half-Chilian, half-Indian women to 
children can hardly be exaggerated. They often remain 
for years in the same family, and it is no unusual thing 
for a mother and child to have had the same nurse. Miss 
Rose-Innes, my trustee's eldest daughter, who became the 
second wife of Sir Charles Santley, is a case in point. 
When her son her only child was born some twenty- 
eight years ago, it was her faithful old Chilian nurse 
Carmen who received him into her arms, nursing him 
with the same devotion in far-away England as she had 
nursed his mother in her own semi-tropical country on the 
shores of the great Pacific Ocean. 

We lived in a large and charming house in Porchester 
Terrace, close to Kensington Gardens. It was delightful 
inside, and quite unusually arranged for a London house. 
The reception rooms were all downstairs, and included a 
very fair-sized billiard-room. The drawing-room, which 



76 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was a really fine room, looked on to a beautiful conserva- 
tory filled with palm trees. Mr. Innes had spent a great 
part of his youth in Brazil, and loved anything that 
reminded him of that country. No flowers were ever 
allowed there. He had had some difficulty in finding a 
satisfactory home. To rich people accustomed to live in 
Chile the usual London house seems positively tiny. 
They, at any rate, felt that they would be miserable 
in so restricted a space. Out there the houses in olden 
times were generally built, Spanish fashion, round a court 
(the patio). Every room, even the bedrooms, opened 
on to it, and any arrangement more delightful in a warm 
climate can hardly be imagined. Before the house in 
Porchester Terrace had been discovered I don't know 
how many they had been to see. One day Mrs. Rose- 
Innes, who had never been in England before, came home 
in rather better spirits than usual. She said she had at 
last seen a house which might do, as it had a patio. 
Of course she had only seen it from outside and did not 
know if it was to let. It wasn't anything out of the way, 
but still . . . Her husband was rather amused when she 
took him to see her trouvaille. It was Grosvenor 
House ! 

As soon as we had settled down, I began to study the 
piano with Herr Ernst Pauer. Personally I liked him 
very much indeed. He was so kind and cheery. But I 
cannot honestly say that I think he was a first-rate 
teacher, though so admirable a musician. He used to 
walk up and down the drawing-room, looking at the 
furniture, the statues, the various objets d'art, and 
occasionally suggesting that I should play a passage slower, 
or faster, as the case might be. Sometimes he would play 
the whole piece through himself, and I am quite sure I 
learned more from him in that way than in any other. 
But there was none of that unswerving attention to every 
detail of the pupil's performance that is the hall-mark of 
the teacher who works miracles with any moderately 
intelligent student under his care. However, he intro- 
duced me to Schumann, whose music at that time was quite 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 77 

unknown to me, and with him I learnt some of the 
novelletten and shorter pianoforte pieces ; but I never 
played them well ; I muddled through them, and after a 
while I felt horribly discouraged, and began to succumb 
to the apathy that had fallen on me once before at Miss 
Reach's school. I had never heard the expression cui 
bono ? but that is what I began to feel. It seemed to 
me that Herr Pauer, though he was always a perfect dear 
to me, didn't really care a brass button whether I got 
on or not. I was just one of many amateur pupils who 
in two or three years would be going to balls and parties, 
and who would never give another serious thought to 
music once that stage was reached. His attitude affected 
me strongly and generated a sort of disbelief in myself, 
as far as music was concerned, which I found almost im- 
possible to shake off. There was something lukewarm 
in the whole atmosphere that was horribly depressing. 
Now by nature I am not lukewarm over anything or 
anybody. I feel unhappy when the breath of life ceases 
to blow lustily and cheerily within me. I simply cannot 
live in a state of mental sirocco. But I found an outlet 
for all these feelings, which I was then far too young to 
analyse with any degree of accuracy. Mr. Rose-Innes 
had a genuine love of music, and made me play to him 
every evening. But the music he cared for was of a very 
different kind to any I had ever heard. Like most people 
who have lived much in South America, he was devoted 
to operatic music chiefly Italian. Those were the days 
when Adelina Patti and Christine Nilsson drew the whole 
world to Covent Garden and Drury Lane, the days of 
Tietjens and Scalchi and Trebelli Bettini, of Faure and 
Campanini and Cotogni, whose gay Don Giovanni I 
adored as a child. Mr. Rose-Innes constantly took me 
to the opera with his eldest daughter, and bought me the 
pianoforte scores of nearly every opera we heard. They 
were arranged " tant bein que mal" (generally mal) for 
two hands, but that did not disturb me much. Night 
after night I played him scenes out of all these operas, 
endeavouring to the best of my ability to reproduce the 



78 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

vocal and orchestral effects I had heard at the theatre, 
and referring as little as possible to the dull pianoforte 
arrangement before me. If I didn't play a solo with all 
the tenderness, or charm, or brio with which some great 
singer had sung it, he would stop me over and over again. 
" No, no, you haven't got it ; don't you remember the 
splendid virility with which he simply brought the house 
down with such and such an aria ? Don't you remember 
how she lingered on that note ? " Or, " Try and make that 
finale sound as if there were a crowd of people singing," etc. 
etc. And I took to this Italian operatic music like a duck 
to water. There was something emotional in it that 
appealed to the youth in me, and I loved to try and make 
the piano a living and breathing human voice. That my 
playing of these scores gave real pleasure to someone 
very dear to me was in itself a powerful incentive. Per- 
haps the actual music only stirred me on the surface 
still, even surfaces are facts that cannot be denied, and 
have to be reckoned with. And I adored, with every 
reason, the really beautiful singing I heard so constantly ; 
my love of vocal music grew apace, and in my admiration 
for the singer I often failed to detect the flimsy quality 
of the music. Perhaps it may seem incredible to any 
musician of the present day that anyone should have been 
able to work themselves up into a state of excitement 
over operas like Traviata, Lucia, the Sonnambula, etc. 
Well, I can't help it! I did. And, anyhow, incredible 
or not, it seems to me still more hateful and absurd to 
pretend that in the days of one's youth one was any 
cleverer or subtler than actually was the case. I dare say 
it would have been more admirable and worthy of me to 
have turned up my small nose at Verdi and Meyerbeer 
and Donizetti and Bellini. But I didn't, and there is the 
end of it. At the same time I cannot say I have the 
slightest wish to be treated to another note of Lucia, 
and I don't think a herd of wild horses would succeed in 
dragging me to the opera to sit through La Sonnambula 
again, not even if cocaine were poured into my ears dur- 
ing each entr'acte ! Some years ago I went out of sheer 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 79 

curiosity to hear the Huguenots. I hated the whole thing 
from beginning to end, though I tried hard to recapture 
the mood in which I had first heard it as a child. But 
it was dead and gone. I couldn't even raise its ghost. 
Had I succeeded let us hope it would have frightened me ! 
For, anything more alarming to a musician than to find 
that he or she was genuinely admiring that sort of music 
again, I cannot imagine ! 

One winter we went to some evening classes at the 
house of a German lady, Madame Leupold. There we 
practised choral works of not too ambitious a character. 
Mendelssohn's Hear my Prayer, glees by Henry Leslie, 
Smart, etc. I still see before me the attractive boy at 
the piano who accompanied us, and who in a few years 
became so well-known I allude to Frederic Cowen, who 
in those days cannot have been more than twenty-two 
or twenty-three. His two charming and pretty sisters 
sang in the chorus. Among other things we performed 
a cantata of his called The Rose Maiden. I rather 
enjoyed those classes, and sat amongst the contraltos and 
helped to make a noise. But there was one member of our 
little society who made a great deal more noise than I did, 
for he was able to sing two different notes at one and the 
same time ; the effect was quite startling, so much so that 
I was positively fascinated by him, and stared at him with 
such interest that Mr. Rose-Innes, who sang with the basses, 
laughingly accused me of having lost my heart to him ! 
If I did, it must be acknowledged that my first love was a 
unique specimen of humanity. Perhaps he was double- 
faced as well as double-voiced ! Who knows ? I, at all 
events, had no opportunity of setting this question at rest 
or of ascertaining whether I was loving " not wisely but 
too well," for he never vouchsafed to take the smallest 
notice of my insignificant self, beyond glaring fiercely at 
me for about two seconds from beneath his black and bushy 
eyebrows when on one occasion he caught my wondering 
eyes fixed on his. Under these circumstances I can hardly 
flatter myself that I had a " lucky escape," nor have 
I any reason to suppose that " we should never have 



80 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

been really happy together," the consecrated phrase, I 
believe, when some nebulous person is discovered to have 
as much intention of marrying, as of skinning, the lady or 
gentleman whose heart is overflowing with gratitude as 
boundless as it is unnecessary ! 

Madame Leupold gave me a few harmony and singing 
lessons, after which I never saw her again. My health 
again became very indifferent, and lessons were almost 
put on one side. The doctor advised plenty of open-air 
exercise and thought riding would do me good. I was 
only too delighted when this new regime was decided 
upon. At the same time I suffered dreadfully not only 
from blinding headaches, but also from severe muscular 
pains, to which I have been subject nearly all my life, at 
all events from the age of ten, and which have interfered 
a good deal, alas ! with my physical enjoyment of many 
delightful things ; but really, when everything that goes 
to make up the sum-total of one's personality has been 
allowed to bask uninterruptedly for years in a private 
and unclouded little sun of its own, one would indeed be 
a monster of ingratitude to give more than a passing 
thought to the discomforts of one's tiresome old body ! 

We often read aloud in the evenings Walter Scott, 
Dickens, etc. I much preferred Dickens, and as to Miss 
Fanny Squeers and her letter to the gentleman who 
shed " the gore of her Pa," they were one of the joys of 
my youth. 

We had a charming governess during my last year at 
Porchester Terrace. Her name was Miss Forster. She was 
a gentle, dear woman, and everyone in the house was 
fond of her. She went by the name of "La Frosta " 
with us children. She came to us just after leaving the 
house of a Neapolitan marchesa, to whose daughters she 
had been English governess. They must have been very 
emotional young women, to say the least of it ! Did 
anything occur to disturb their equanimity they at once 
sent their maid for handkerchiefs, which they tore to 
pieces with their teeth to relieve their feelings ! I used 
to listen spellbound to the misdeeds of the two wicked 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 81 

young marchesine and longed to go to Italy where such 
extraordinary things happened. 

Miss Forster once told me a story that amused me a 
good deal. 

" You know, Maudie," she said, " I am a Catholic, 
heart and soul. I really am. But once I was accused 
of having no faith." 

" Oh," I said, genuinely surprised, " I can't think 
that." 

44 It's quite true, nevertheless, I assure you." 

44 But why ? I can't imagine why ! " 

44 Well, I was told that I ought to believe everything, 
but literally everything, the Pope says. I said, 4 Of course 
I believe everything the Pope says ex cathedra,'' 4 No,' 
answered my friend ; 4 you must believe everything he 
says anyhow.' She declared she certainly would. So then 
I said laughingly, 4 Well, but surely if the Pope told you 
he could make a plum-pudding jump out of a candlestick 
you wouldn't believe him ? ' And, just imagine, she said, 
4 Yes, I would.' And I said, 4 Well, I wouldn't.' And then 
she said I had no faith. We had quite a painful scene." 

I couldn't help laughing. The weird religious beliefs 
held by some old people in remote parts of the world 
are rather staggering even now, and the theological 
questions sometimes raised are what I may call 44 Genre 
Torquemada." 

An old Sicilian woman I knew told me that she had 
once spent several hours praying with a friend who was 
being tormented by an evil spirit. 

44 How dreadful ! " I said. 4 ' But why in the world 
was the evil spirit tormenting her ? " 

She lowered her voice and said mysteriously 

44 Two evil spirits were tormenting her ! One wanted 
her soul, and the other wanted her ear-rings ! " 

I wasn't a Catholic at the time of that conversation 
with Miss Forster, and I am now, but my scepticism with 
regard to acrobatic plum-puddings and wonder-working 
candlesticks is, I am afraid, on a par with hers ; in fact, 
we are in the same boat, and it is my firm belief that the 
6 



82 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

dear Holy Father would have very little objection to 
giving us a helping hand with the sculls ! 

I can, however, speak far more authoritatively with 
regard to his views on jam (of all subjects in the world !), 
especially a certain Armenian jam made of dates stuffed 
with almonds and smothered in syrup. I don't think it 
can possibly be his first favourite jam, for the other day 
when he was presented with several large tins of this 
preserve by an Armenian bishop, he hurriedly handed 
them over to those of his private chamberlains who 
happened to be on duty that week. My old friend Tony 
de Navarro was amongst them. He is a great favourite 
of His Holiness, to whom he is much attached, and when 
his tin was presented to him he was ribald enough to ask 
him if he would do him the honour of attending his 
funeral in the event of his succumbing to the temptation 
of eating his way out of it without the assistance of his 
family or friends ! He may have been tempted, but he 
certainly did not fall, for when he returned to Florence 
to the Villa Nuti, where he and his wife and son were 
staying with my sister Emmie (Mrs. Edmund White), 
he shared the contents with us, and very good they were. 
A little Californian girl who was staying at the Villa was 
very much interested to hear that the jam was a present 
from His Holiness. " I suppose," she said meditatively, 
44 it is what you would call one of the Pope's relics ! " 

Breakfast at the Vatican must be a unique meal, for 
Mr. de Navarro tells me it consists for the most part of 
black coffee, cakes, bonbons, and ice-cream ! 

Dear, kind Miss Forster died a short time after she left 
the Rose-Innes'. Till within a few years I sometimes 
saw her brother, a tall, good-looking priest, when I went 
to the nine o'clock Mass at the little Catholic Church 
close to Victoria Street. He was, and for aught I know 
still is, chaplain to the Catholic soldiers stationed at the 
barracks in St. James's Park. They almost filled the 
church, and it was sometimes quite difficult to find a 
seat. He never preached to them for more than ten 
minutes, but he certainly held their attention during 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 88 

that time. One morning he closed his sermon with the 
following words : "I know how seldom it is that you 
can call your time your own, but it does not take long 
to say the Paternoster and the Ave Maria. Say them, 
my men, and say them on your knees." And then he 
made the sign of the Cross and said, " In nomine Patris," 
etc., and walked out of the pulpit. That was nearly 
twenty years ago, but how often, when I have felt sleepy, 
or tired, or in a hurry, I have heard Father Cyril Forster's 
kind voice across the stretch of years : "It doesn't take 
long to say the Paternoster and the Ave Maria . . . 
Say them, and say them on your knees." I dare say this 
little detail may seem very superfluous to those people 
who sometimes ask you why you think it necessary to 
say your prayers in a stuffy church when their experience 
is that one can pray so much better in the open air under 
the roof of Heaven. A man once made this remark to 
me. I couldn't resist the temptation of saying to him, 
" Well, now, do tell me, when the rest of us go to church, 
do you always go into the fields to pray ? " He laughed 
rather awkwardly, but being a perfectly truthful person, 
he owned up that he did nothing of the kind. The roof 
of Heaven in most of these cases means a delightful basket- 
chair under a shady tree, and the prayer-book is for the 
most part strangely like a novel ! 

And now my two years in London were over, and it 
was time for me to return to my mother's little place in 
Cheshire. I never cared for it. There was something 
dreary to me about that part of the country. I don't 
think she really cared for it herself, as she was never well 
there. Some of my sisters had married, two of my 
brothers had gone abroad. I had no companion of my 
own age, for my sister Annie was seven years older than 
myself. Had it not been for my little brother and sister, 
Harry and Emmie, and six little Harrington cousins whose 
parents were in Chile, and who always came to us for the 
holidays, filling the house with the welcome noise of their 
chatter and laughter (and occasionally of their quarrels), 
it would have been dreadfully lonely. Emmie gloried 



84 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

in being the only girl among this crowd of boys. If 
flowers were uprooted or windows smashed by cricket or 
croquet balls, the exasperated gardener would always 
begin his speech with 

" If you please, ma'am, the seven young gentlemen, 
with Miss Emily at their 'ead," etc. etc. 

One day a favourite dog was missing. Emmie and little 
Fred Harrington were in despair. The way in which they 
went to work to find him was delicious. There was a 
field close to the house in which there stood a deserted 
shed. They rigged it up to look as much as possible like 
a chapel ; a pulpit was erected in the corner and a service 
was held for the recovery of the truant. They both got 
into night-dresses and swung the little black trousers be- 
longing to some evening suits across their shoulders to 
look like stoles. After they had been conscientiously 
through the evening service, one of them read a sermon 
not very edifying, I am afraid, for it was an extract from 
Arthur Sketchley's inimitable " Mrs. Brown at the Paris 
Exhibition." Then they turned out to see if the dog had 
returned. No, there wasn't a sign of him. They were 
greatly dejected. What was to be done ? A council 
was held, during which one of them proposed that they 
should sing the hymn for those at sea ! They then 
returned to the shed and went steadily through every 
verse. " And then," said little Fred when he excitedly 
told me the story, " by Jove, if we didn't see the beggar 
running up the drive wagging his tail just as we finished 
the last verse ! " 

When the jolly little crowd went back to school every- 
thing in life seemed drab-colour, except, indeed, Monday 
mornings and Saturday afternoons, when Emmie went to 
and returned from the house of a clergyman and his wife, 
who received her as a weekly boarder. If Saturday 
afternoon was couleur de rose, Monday morning was 
funereal black ; never did a child hate leaving home as she 
did. She always cried so bitterly on her way back that 
at last, one Monday afternoon, Leach, our coachman, sent 
up word to ask if he might speak to my mother. " If 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 85 

this goes on," said the kind-hearted fellow, with the tears 
in his own eyes, " I can't stick it, ma'am ; I must give 
warning. I can't be the one as drives the poor child 
back." Whether it was the kind coachman's threats, or 
my little sister's horror of life in a parsonage, or my poor 
mother's rheumatism, I don't know, but she suddenly 
made up her mind that we should spend the winter in 
London. 

It was with unmitigated joy that I turned my back 
upon Cheshire; devoted as I am, and always have been, 
to the country, there was something about Parkfield 
that left me absolutely indifferent. The house and 
grounds were not really attractive, nor can I remember 
meeting a single interesting person in the neighbourhood, 
though certainly one lady with a very interesting personal- 
ity indeed occasionally visited relatives of hers who lived 
within f a few miles of us, and with whom my mother had 
a slight acquaintance. But I never met Miss Rhoda 
Broughton myself, to my knowledge, till many years 
afterwards, when we were introduced to each other by 
Sir John E. Millais at his beautiful house at Gloucester 
Gate. The great painter was devoted to music ; in fact 
to be a musician was to be certain of his sympathy. On 
more than one occasion he said to me, " I love the pro- 
fession." He happened to be at St. James's Hall the night 
that Mrs. Hutchinson introduced four songs of mine 
settings from Tennyson's " In Memoriam" at a Monday 
Pop. She sang them beautifully, with great tenderness 
and feeling, and she looked so charming into the bargain 
(" ce qui n'a jamais gate rien ") that it is no wonder she made 
a success of them. We had studied them carefully to- 
gether, and I accompanied her that night. How grateful 
one feels to the really unselfish singer who enters heart and 
soul into the spirit of one's composition, and how much 
one owes them ! I am sure I owed the pleasure of know- 
ing Sir John Millais in a great measure to the touching way 
Mrs. Hutchinson sang " 'Tis better to have loved and 
lost," for he liked it so much that he asked someone to 
introduce me to him shortly afterwards, 



86 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Sir John Millais may have had a soft place in his heart 
for musicians, but Miss Rhoda Broughton most emphati- 
cally had not I And I had a comically sincere proof of it. 
She, I am sure, has forgotten all about the following little 
scene, but I remember it very well. What little nobody 
at the bottom of the ladder does not remember his or 
her introduction to a celebrated " Somebody " at the top ? 
But if it is a great moment for the one, I am afraid that 
in some cases it is rather a trial for the other ! Well, 
I didn't happen to know anyone at this particular re- 
ception at Lady Millais', for it was the first time I had ever 
been to her house. The beautiful studio was crowded 
with well-known people who stood in little groups before 
the pictures, or sat talking gaily together, and I felt 
rather shy and lonely, when all of a sudden I saw Sir 
John's cheery face in the distance ; he came straight up 
to me, and after the kindest greeting he said, " What, 
you don't mean to say you know no one here ? Come 
along with me, and I will introduce you to someone in- 
teresting," and he sailed down the studio with me, like a 
big ship with a little one in tow. We anchored in front 
of Miss Rhoda Broughton, who for the moment was not 
talking to anyone. Poor lady ! She certainly did not 
expect to be bombarded when she set out that evening 
for Lady Millais' party in a charming and most becoming 
gown, but there what are we, after all, but puppets of 
fate ? And here was Sir John heading her off from the 
rest of the community, and raking her fore and aft with 
praise of myself and my compositions ! Sir John had 
that kind, that really adorable kind ring in his voice that a 
great artist often has when he is backing a young beginner 
in whom he believes to someone quite ignorant of his 
existence. He must have forgotten for the moment that 
to Miss Broughton music was the dullest subject on earth. 
A look of desperation began to run up and down her face, 
and in it I read plainly that she feared Sir John intended 
saddling her with me for the rest of the evening. But 
his attitude was really so much that of the kind father who 
is sure that everyone is going to be as encouraging to his 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 87 

child as he himself, that I don't believe he saw it, and 
at last Miss Broughton like Julius Caesar crossed the 
Rubicon, and said out loud what hundreds of unmusical 
people struggle hard to keep to themselves under similar 
circumstances. Looking both of us straight in the face, 
she said, with heroic frankness, " Unfortunately I hate 
music," then she turned her back on us and hastily began 
a conversation with someone else ! Never before had I 
been hurried into a back seat with such brilliant success, 
though I have often since been offered one decorously, 
smilingly, and even enthusiastically ! Sometimes I have 
accepted them, and sometimes I have not, but this time 
I really had no alternative. However, even back seats 
have their compensations. Shortly afterwards I found 
that mine was close to where the late lovely Duchess of 
Leinster was sitting, and I quickly recovered from my 
discomfiture in the contemplation of her radiant young 
beauty. 

But this is a digression. It all happened many years 
later, and I must go back to the time when I was sixteen, 
when all the world was reading and enjoying Miss 
Broughton's clever novels. The agony of the snub was 
so short, and the pleasure she had always given me so 
great, that the one was very quickly swallowed up in the 
other, and I only hope we may meet again some day, if 
only to have a good laugh over the whole thing. She 
would, I am sure, offer me a comfortable arm-chair now, 
and even if her whole soul longed to toss me into a back 
seat, she would be confronted with the stern fact that a 
certain amount of avoirdupois has physically, at any 
rate made it quite impossible for anyone to attempt 
to do so without considerable danger to themselves ! 



CHAPTER VII. 

WE spent the autumn of '71 and the spring of '72 in 
London, thankful to be out of Parkfield, which had by now 
developed into a sort of white elephant. We wished to 
let it, but apparently other people found it as unattractive 
as we did. It was quite a long time before we found a 
satisfactory tenant, and when fortune smiled on us at 
last, it was in the shape of a massive lady who dropped her 
aitches and was the proud sister of a wealthy brother who, 
she informed us, lived in Russia and drove " the 'and- 
somest quadrupeds in Petersburg ! " 

The months in London, though pleasant, were quite 
uneventful. I wasn't supposed to be grown-up, though I 
was the possessor of a beautiful white silk dress with a 
long train. I had worn it at the wedding of a young girl 
with whom I was only slightly acquainted, who had asked 
me to be her bridesmaid. Both she and her husband died 
long ago. After the ceremony I swept up the aisle on the 
arm of a grey-trousered and black frock-coated gentleman 
whose face and name have entirely vanished from my 
memory, but not so the ecstasy with which I heard the 
swish of the silk train ! I don't believe the bride was half 
as excited as I was, but then her bridegroom wasn't 
half as thrilling as my white silk dress ! That was a thing 
of beauty ! He was a thing of sixty, no beauty, with a 
long nose that looked as if it had had a chequered career, 
full of naughty little episodes for which it was still blushing. 

I did .absolutely nothing that winter, or the following 
spring. I was too young to go to parties, and the beautiful 
white silk dress languished in a cupboard upstairs while 
I led an aimless, semi-grown-up life downstairs that bored 
me to death. My married sisters were staying with us 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 89 

with their husbands and children one from India, the 
other from Chile. The drawing-room was always full of 
people, and there was no room in the house where I could 
shut myself up and go on with my studies. Naturally, 
another period of mental sirocco set in as far as music 
was concerned indeed, as far as everything was con- 
cerned ! But again our kind trustee, Mr. Rose-Innes, 
came to the rescue. The house we had taken for the 
winter was close to Porchester Terrace, where he lived, 
and he often came to see us, and constantly invited my 
sister Annie and myself to go to the theatre and opera 
with him and his eldest daughter. The Carl Rosa Opera 
Company was performing in London about that time. 
Sir Charles Santley was a member of it, and it was while 
he was in that company that I heard him sing for the 
first time in the Trovatore, Fra Diavolo, and many other 
operas. His singing and exquisite phrasing were a 
revelation to me. I have heard him criticised as an 
actor, but at that time, as a singer, he was absolutely 
perfect. He possessed to a superlative degree all the 
qualities which make a singer stand head and shoulders 
above his contemporaries. The " timbre " of his warm 
baritone voice was quite beautiful, " simpatico " to the 
last degree, his technique superb (he had studied with 
Lamperti of Milan, the greatest professor of singing who 
ever lived, I suppose), and he had not only a great tempera- 
ment, but he was a finished musician into the bargain, 
reading the most difficult music easily at sight, and able 
to express any and every shade of feeling. Whether the 
music were passionate or tender, graceful or virile, 
emotional or serene, sad or gay, he sang it with equal 
insight. He must have been about thirty-seven when I 
first heard him. About six or seven years ago I drove 
over from Broadway to Cheltenham to hear him sing 
once more at a concert that was being given at the Winter 
Gardens. Naturally his voice was not what it had been 
some thirty-five years ago. How could it be ? But the 
old charm was there, the technique was absolutely 
remarkable for a man of his age, and when, as an encore, 



90 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

he sang a very simple little ballad, it was with all the 
old charm and beautiful tenderness ! It was worth 
driving any distance merely to hear words pronounced as 
he pronounced them. And I am glad, more than glad, 
to have this opportunity of saying what I think what 
I have always thought about his art, for in my opinion 
he is, all round, by far the greatest English singer we 
have ever had. 

Whilst I that winter idled away my days in London, 
Annie took singing lessons from one of the professors of 
the Royal Academy of Music. I don't think he could 
have been responsible for the whole of her repertoire, 
at least, for the reputation of the R.A.M., let us hope not, 
for among many charming songs it included one quite 
hideous little ballad called " My Bark is on the Rhine." 
I must say that bark was a great deal worse than any 
bite I have ever been called upon to endure in any of 
the mosquito-ridden countries which it has been my lot 
to inhabit at various periods of my life. I once made a 
perfect idiot of myself over that song. It was at a musical 
party at the house of some Scotch friends. My host, a 
venerable old gentleman of about seventy-five, was in the 
habit of saying quite openly that Bellini was equal, if 
not far superior, to Beethoven, and, what is more, he 
expected everyone to agree with him. Accustomed as I 
was at that time to the glorification of Italian music, I 
couldn't stand that, and rebelled openly. However, when 
I was invited to a musical party at his house, I naturally 
realised that it would be useless to play anything but 
Italian music. Liszt's arrangement of the quartet from 
Rigoletto was one of my show-pieces ; I had just heard 
it played splendidly by Madame Teresa Carreno at one 
of the Covent Garden Promenade Concerts. She was 
little more than a girl herself at that time, and what a 
beautiful girl ! How she played even then ! A piano- 
forte arrangement of the overture to William Tell was 
another of my " battle horses," and I played both these 
pieces that evening. After I had been complimented and 
thanked by my old host, a dark, clean-shaven barrister 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 91 

with a clever face came up to speak to me. He had a 
brusque manner that was rather alarming, and a jerky 
abrupt way of talking that disconcerted me from the 
outset. 

" Do you play Bark ? " he asked, almost severely, and 
looking me all over. 

I suddenly felt guilty. I really didn't understand 
what he meant. 

" Bark ? " I said timidly ; " Bark ? " 

"I say, do you play Bark ? " he repeated impatiently, 
and raising his voice as if I were deaf. 

" Bark ? " I again repeated stupidly ; " did you say 
Bark ? " 

"Yes," he almost shouted back at me. "Bark. 
Don't you know Bark ? " 

He looked at me as if he thought that nothing short 
of ringing the tocsin would ever wake me out of my 
torpor. 

" Oh," I said hastily, at a venture, " yes, I do know 
it. You mean ' My Bark is on the Rhine,' don't you ? " 

He looked at me as if he would have liked to strangle 
me ! I'm certain he thought I was purposely misunder- 
standing him. 

" Bark's fugues ! " he roared. 

And then I made the greatest gaffe of all. " Oh," 
I said, the light dawning at last, " you mean Bach," 
and I pronounced it German fashion without the very 
remotest intention of being offensive, which, of course, I 
was. My trustee stood close by, highly amused at the 
little scene, and finally came and rescued me. 

" He'll never forgive you," he said, laughing ; " that 
was the last straw, correcting his German." 

"I didn't! I didn't!" I protested. "Anyhow, I 
never meant to. Let's go home." 

And, of course, I hadn't meant anything of the sort, 
but I felt that the sooner I said good-bye the less chance 
I would have of disgracing myself a second time. 

I heard afterwards that my barrister was a first-rate 
musician and a great lover of classical music. No doubt 



92 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

he thought it was a pity I didn't play music of a higher 
class. Who knows ? we might have made quite good 
friends that evening had I not had what I may call a 
rush of brains to the toes ! And I thought he was the 
idiot, clamouring for " My Bark is on the Rhine " ! 
Such are the little ironies of Life ! 
We left Cheshire for good in the autumn of '72. A 
week or two before we left Parkfields my sister Annie 
started for Chile with Dora, my other married sister, 
who was returning there with her husband and children. 
We thought she was only going for a short year's visit, 
but unfortunately for us she married and settled there. 
Before leaving Parkfields my mother made up her mind 
to take a house in London, and we found one to suit us 
in a little street next Queen's Gate, close to Kensington 
Gardens. It was called Hyde Park Gate South in those 
days, and being a street with no outlet there was little 
or no traffic ; it was charmingly quiet, a real advantage 
as far as my mother was concerned, for she was a great 
invalid and was often laid up for days together. I was 
seventeen years old when we went to live there. How 
I enjoyed it after vegetating in Parkfields, where, towards 
the end, I had again fallen ill, gradually becoming so weak 
that I could hardly turn from one side to the other of the 
sofa on which I was obliged to lie during most of the 
day ! I recovered after a slight operation, and again 
began to enjoy life. 

About three weeks after my sisters sailed for Chile in 
a beautiful steamer called the Tacora, belonging to the 
Pacific Steam Navigation Company, we saw, to our horror, 
the following telegram in all the papers : " Total wreck 
of the Tacora. Seventeen passengers lost." I was still 
in bed recovering from my operation when this news 
reached us. We lived through twenty-four hours of 
agony, when, to our inexpressible relief, we received a 
telegram : "All safe. Have been taken in an English 
gunboat to Monte Video." I think it is Schopenhauer 
who says that happiness, the greatest happiness, is the 
cessation of misery. I have often heard this indignantly 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 93 

denied, but I must say I think there is a great deal to be 
said for his point of view. Hardly anything can equal 
the joy of knowing that one's best beloved are safe and 
well when one has had every reason to fear that one has 
lost them for ever. The Tacora struck against a rock in 
the night, and, like the Titanic, was lost on her first voyage, 
but in the case of the Tacora there was time, thank God, 
to save the passengers and crew. The only ones who 
were lost were those who, panic-stricken, threw them- 
selves into the sea and tried to swim ashore. The rest 
were landed on a desolate beach, where, fortunately for 
them, there was a lighthouse, in which they found two 
kind Frenchmen who wired for help. I believe the gun- 
boat took them the next day to Monte Video. 

" Kennst du das Land, wo die Citronen bliihn, 
Im dunkcln Laub die Gold-Orangen gliihn 
Ein sanfter Wind vom blauen Himmel weht 
Die Myrte still, und hoch der Lorbeer steht 
Kennst du es wohl ? 

Dahin ! Dahin ! 
Mocht ich mit dir, o mein Geliebter, ziehn ! " 

That spring I went to Italy with a little party of 
friends. It was a very hurried visit " a 1'Americaine." 
In fact, it was a kind American friend of my Uncle Fred 
Harrington who suggested that I should join the party. 
He was travelling about with his daughter, and thought 
she might like a companion. We were joined in Paris by 
a very agreeable young married couple Chilians from 
Santiago, I believe. We were only to be away a short 
time, but that was better than nothing. Italy was Italy, 
and it was something to catch a glimpse of it, if only for 
twenty-four hours ! I was in a perfect glow of delight 
at the prospect. Though I knew very little of Italy 
from an art point of view, I was, of course, aware that it 
was a marvellous treasure-house of pictures and statues. 
Nevertheless, it was not the Italy of galleries and museums 
that made my heart beat at the mere idea of going there. 
It was the magical, dimly remembered country of Mignon 



94 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

that was the Italy of my dreams, the Italy that I had 
conjured up for myself from Goethe's lovely poem, 
" Kennst du das Land ? " I longed to see the orange 
and lemon groves of the South, to feel the caress of the 
soft and balmy breezes on my face, to see the lovely 
deep blue of the sky by day and the dance of the fireflies 
by night, to see mountains again ! Mountains whose 
wooded sides were seamed with narrow tracks up which 
the mules climbed steadily, disappearing into regions of 
mystery ! In his celebrated " Italianische Reise" Goethe 
says, alluding to a lovely little place half-way between 
Terracina and Naples : " Mignon hatte wohl recht sich 
dahin zu sehnen ! " (" Well may Mignon have longed to be 
there once more ! ") And then he speaks of the lovable 
smiling landscape with its background of mountains, 
the grey-green myrtles that grow beneath the shadow 
of the grey fantastic cactus bushes, the orange trees 
shimmering in the sunlight with their heavy burden of 
fruit, the olive and pomegranate trees, and detaching 
itself from the rest of the vegetation a lovely exile from 
the East, one solitary graceful palm. 

The fisherman of Amain who headed the revolution 
against the cruel Spanish duke and championed the poor 
people of Naples against the great ones of the earth 
was still alive for me, and, though he had been murdered 
more than two hundred years ago, for me Masaniello still 
harangued the excited mob from the scaffolding in the 
streets of Naples ! 

And I was to see Venice and Florence and Rome ! 
It seemed too good to be true. What with Greek legends 
and Italian romance, echoes of heroic deeds of the Ris- 
orgimento, visions of Calabrian brigands, lines from 
Childe Harold, revealing glimpses of the Dying Gladiator, 
the Tarpeian Rock, St. Peter's my brain literally whirled ! 
Garibaldi in his red shirt, the central figure of the world 
just then, spun round with the Three Graces the sirens 
were entangled in the colossal moustachios of Vittorio 
Emanuele Pio Nono and Fra Diavolo walked arm in 
arm ! What a pasticcio ! 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 95 

Pasticcio or no, / was in a perfect fever of excitement 
when we started. To this day I always feel when I have 
crossed the Channel " Now anything may happen ! " 
Alas, I was to be disillusioned from the very outset, and, 
what is more, all along the line. We stayed in Paris 
for two or three days at the Hotel du Louvre. It was 
my first introduction to a table d'hote, and I also saw a 
menu for the first time ; on this one I remember perfectly 
a strange dish called, " Petites pattes de Cendrillon ! " 

I had not been in Paris since the Franco-German War, 
and was miserable at the disappearance of the beautiful Palais 
des Tuileries, round which I had woven so many childish 
romances. I went, of course, to Rue Kepler to see dear old 
Mademoiselle Lalande, who, I knew, had been through 
all the horrors not only of the siege but of the Commune. 
Like scores of others, she had faced the grim spectre of 
hunger. The Commune was almost worse than the siege, 
I believe, as far as she was concerned, for during those 
terrible weeks she was obliged to fetch her portion of 
food (horse-flesh, for the most part) from a bureau in the 
Faubourg St. Honore, and to get there she had to cross 
the Champs Elysees generally under a fusillade. The 
shots were fired from the Arc de Triomphe, I believe, and 
sometimes hit the poor people who, afraid to walk upright, 
very often crawled across the great avenue on their knees 
to lessen the danger as much as possible. 

From Paris we went to Milan, and from Milan to 
Venice. When I think of the joy that a visit to Venice 
means to me now, I realise all I missed then. After we 
had been there two days it was decided that there was 
nothing more to be seen, and that we had far better 
44 move on." I knew very little more about art than 
any of the others, but I felt desperate. St. Mark's and 
the Ducal Palace, the Grand Canal with its splendid 
palaces, the Rialto, the mysterious and narrow waterways 
through which we glided in our gondolas, to emerge 
presently in front of the famous Piazza a contrast which 
to this day always gives me an extraordinary feeling of 
excitement all these things had set my imagination on 



96 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

fire. I didn't want to go away, and when it was decided 
that we were to spend our last precious hours in Salviati's 
glass warehouse, I felt miserable. I was perfectly certain 
we were leaving hundreds of beautiful things and places 
unseen, though I hardly knew what they were, but still 
I felt I would be able to find them out easily enough 
were I given time to do so. As we were not leaving 
Venice till quite late in the evening, I suggested one last 
expedition to see I really forget what, but I know it 
was something or some place that I had read about with 
great interest. I was alone in a gondola with my uncle 
when I ventured to touch upon the subject. But though 
he was the very kindest of men, he didn't really care for 
the arts, except music. He had had quite enough of 
Venice, and agreed with the rest of the party that it 
would be a waste of time to spend more than three days 
there. " Now look here," he said to me, " you know 
quite well you only want to go to this place just to say 
you have been there. You've seen quite enough to satisfy 
anyone," etc. etc. I said no more. What was the use ? 
That evening we left for Florence. 

And the same thing happened there. We rushed 
through galleries, stared at people copying pictures, stood 
hypnotised in front of mosaic tables and horrible modern 
statuary in the shop windows, and saw nothing, literally 
nothing, of the real Florence. We didn't even see the 
pictures we looked at ! It was a real case of " having 
eyes, they saw not, and having ears, they heard not." 
But if dear old Uncle Fred were alive and able to look 
over my shoulder at this moment I am pretty sure he 
would say, " My dear, since you are being so very funny 
at our expense, you had better add that whatever was 
the matter with our eyes and ears, our noses were in 
perfect working condition, which is more than can be 
said of yours, since you admit yourself that the horrid 
smells in every town we went to had not the slightest 
effect upon you, whereas they made us sick." Whenever 
he made a speech of this sort it was accompanied by what 
we used to call " Uncle Fred's heavenly smile ! " How 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 97 

often and often have not his own children joined us 
in a good laugh over this funny little characteristic 
indeed, during his lifetime how often has he not laughed 
at it with us ? 

The dear old fellow's patience was visibly exhausted 
long before we got to Rome. He couldn't bear the sight 
of a St. Sebastian, no matter who had painted the picture. 
Every now and then he would burst forth with 

" I've had quite enough of these fellows smiling away 
with arrows sticking out all over their bodies ! Now, I 
ask you, in the name of all that's sensible, would you or 
I be likely to smile under such circumstances ? What 
I say is why the blank do these painter chaps keep on, 
hammer and tongs, at the same everlasting subject ? 
What ? What's that ? Oh, my dear, don't talk rubbish. 
You don't care about these things any more than I do. 
Stuff and nonsense ! I know what I am talking about." 

Our host was kindness personified and treated us 
splendidly ; we always went to the best hotels, had 
delightful rooms and champagne at every meal. In the 
evenings the men of the party went off to play billiards. 
If I said that they went to try and shake off the impres- 
sions of the day, I really don't believe I should be 
far wrong ! Well, we can't all of us be lovers of Nature 
and Art, that is very certain, and though I am assuredly 
not going to champion this way of visiting Italy, still, 
I'll try and be as just to my kind friends as a twelve- 
year-old cousin was to me when he once heard that some- 
one had accused me of snoring (of all awful things!). 
" Surely," he said indignantly, " there's no dishonour in 
snoring ! " 

And certainly there is no crime in preferring a billiard- 
room to the galleries of the Ufnzi, or the golf links of 
St. Andrews to the Roman Campagna, and I suppose 
the only really odious thing in the world is to pretend to 
be something you are not. Only, I must say I am still 
wondering which of the party suggested that visit to Italy ! 

It was just the same in Rome, where we rushed through 
everything in the same aimless, half-unconscious way. 
7 



98 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

But in Rome there were two really interesting episodes, 
though certainly they were as far removed from each 
other in their essence as it is possible for anything to be. 
Both, however, were unforgettable. One was the famous 
riderless race instituted by Pope Paul 11. the Venetian 
Pope. The horses galloped from beginning to end of 
the Corso, as far as I can remember, and the race took 
place during the last days of the Carnival. There is a 
spirited description of the whole thing in the first volume 
of Marion Crawford's delightful book, Ave Roma Immor- 
talis, which I strongly advise anyone to read who wishes 
to know what sort of scenes took place in the old Roman 
days during the week or so that preceded Lent. I sup- 
pose the riderless race I saw in '73 was one of the last 
that was ever run. Our cicerone hired a balcony for us 
on the first floor of a house in the Corso, and, high up 
though we were, we were pelted with confetti and flowers. 
But we also had our bag of confetti and did our very 
best to pay our assailants back in their own coin. It was 
one of the merriest scenes I ever saw; the streets were 
thronged with people in carriages and on foot, many of 
them wearing masks and almost all of them disguised 
in the most fantastic garments it is possible to imagine. 
After a while the streets were cleared for the coming race. 
Every head in the crowd was turned in the direction 
from which the horses were expected ; the excitement 
grew apace at the first sounds of their hoofs on the 
pavement, and when at last they rushed wildly past, 
almost maddened by the shouts and cheers of the multi- 
tude, there was something so primitive, so barbaric, so 
frantic about it, that it almost frightened me, safe as 
we were on our first-floor balcony. It looked horribly 
dangerous, and I believe that occasionally some appalling 
accident took place. I don't know for what reason these 
races were abolished, unless, perhaps, on that account. 

Our other interesting experience was a visit to the 
Vatican. The young Chilian couple who were travelling 
with us much wished to see the Holy Father (Pope Pius ix.), 
and although they were the only Catholics of our little 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 99 

party, we all accompanied them to the audience, which took 
place, I believe, in the Sala del Trono as it does now. There 
were a great many people there beside ourselves. The 
men were in evening dress and the women wore black 
gowns and black lace mantillas. I can only half remember 
the kind, good face of Pius the Ninth ; and a great many 
details of the audience have, alas, escaped my memory, 
but I recollect that we all knelt down as he walked slowly 
past in his white soutane, blessing the little crowd of 
kneeling people, and making the sign of the Cross over 
Catholics and Protestants alike. I didn't become a 
Catholic till eight years later, and at that time it was 
chiefly the " mise en scene " of the whole thing that 
attracted my attention. But I must say even to the 
merest outsider it is an impressive sight, from the first 
moment when, at the entrance, you see the famous Swiss 
Guards in their picturesque costumes designed by Michael 
Angelo grey coats, black and yellow stockings, and 
soft flat hats to the last moment of all, when the Holy 
Father gives the blessing to all present, including in that 
blessing the crucifixes, the rosaries, the medals, etc., 
which so many pilgrims have brought with them, some- 
times from the uttermost ends of the earth. I have not 
yet seen Pius the Tenth, but I hope to do so ere long, and 
" en attendant " I have two little rosaries that were 
brought to me from the Vatican only the other day by 
a dear friend. Both of them had special blessings at- 
tached to them by the Holy Father, and I feel pretty 
certain that I, who have lost nearly everything I possess 
in the way of jewellery, will never lose these simple little 
" corone." 

Naples was the last Italian town we visited, and we 
stayed there about three days. No " dolce farniente " 
for us ! No basking in the sun, no siesta under vine- 
covered pergolas, or on sunlit terraces smothered in roses ! 
No iniquitous waste of time ! The museum had to be 
seen, and it might have been on fire the way we hurried 
through it. As to the famous ruins of Pompeii we " did " 
them as rapidly as though we feared our mere presence 



100 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

might irritate Vesuvius into another untimely eruption 
(I only wonder it didn't!), and finally we mounted six 
sad-looking little donkeys who toiled up the mountain 
with us, followed by a string of beggars clamouring for 
" piccoli soldi." When we got to the top we did our 
duty by the crater by gazing into its mouth like so many 
amateur dentists ; and after a hurried luncheon and a 
look at the view, we remounted our little donkeys and 
were jogged down to the bottom. I don't think any of 
the party cared for the Bay of Naples, in fact, there was 
a general feeling that the beauties of the " Golfo di 
Napoli " had been grossly exaggerated. They said the 
bay of Rio Janeiro was far more beautiful. As I was the 
only one of the party who hadn't seen it, I was obliged 
to accept their verdict. But I have seen it three times 
since then, and it certainly is beautiful very, very 
beautiful but all the same, give me the Golfo di Napoli 
" all the time and every time ! " Were I to be told that 
I would never have another chance of seeing the bay of 
Rio Janeiro again, I would accept my fate with perfect 
equanimity; but did I know that never again was I to 
see Isola di Capri floating dreamily on the blue waters of 
the Bay of Naples, as I have seen it often and often be- 
tween five and six o'clock on some splendid July morning 
on my way back from Sicily, when Sicily was my home 
my beloved home I think the tears would not be very 
far away. It is no use arguing with any one who has 
succumbed to the spell of Italy or Sicily. They are the 
sirens of the world, and may they hold me fast in their 
embrace till I draw my last breath ! 

Although our trip was nearly at an end, I still hoped 
to carry out a little plan on which I had irrevocably set 
my heart. I had read about Capri and the wonderful 
Blue Grotto, and it was the dream of my life to see this 
fantastically beautiful sea-cave. I had conjured up a 
vision of such unearthly beauty that I doubt if even 
the lovely grotto itself could have equalled it. It seemed 
to me the ideal home for Hans Andersen's little mermaid 
for the sirens that sung to Ulysses for Neptune and his 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 101 

sea-nymphs. What wonder if the Blue Grotto appeared 
to me to hover on the very threshold of the realms of 
phantasy ! The longing to see it became intense, in- 
creasing with every day. I had taken no one into my 
confidence, but I secretly hoped that one of the grown- 
ups would propose an excursion to the lovely island. 
But the idea didn't occur to any of them. At last the 
subject had to be broached the day of our departure 
was fixed, and there wasn't another moment to be lost. 
I asked my uncle if he would not take me there, and, to 
my intense delight, he didn't seem to have any objection, 
and went to find out the best way of getting there. 

The result of his inquiries was anything but satis- 
factory to him. It was many, many years ago, and he was 
told that there was no steamer communication between 
Naples and Capri that the only way of reaching the 
island was by rowing there in a boat. When I heard 
this I was keener than ever ; it seemed to me an ideal 
way of travelling ; the bay was like a sheet of glass, 
the weather divine, and the journey, so they said, would 
not take more than five or six hours. My uncle, however, 
refused point-blank to go by boat. He said that so 
many hours in a mere cockleshell was utterly out of the 
question ; he clung to life if I didn't. I pleaded in 
vain, and at last gave in. 

But what with the fatigue of sightseeing, the constant 
rush in the heat of the day, the disappointment about 
Capri a really bitter one to me the feeling that I had 
not had one single ideal Italian day from beginning to 
end of our journey, what with all this I suddenly collapsed 
and had a nasty little breakdown that lasted for about 
two days. The others went on I forget where and I 
was left alone with my uncle in Naples. It was not till 
I was lying ill in bed that I realised how I had counted 
on that day at Capri. I thought of " Kennst du das 
Land," and felt that no human being could have written 
in that way about Italy if it had given him no more 
than it had given me. I felt there was something we 
had all missed. I was certain there was something 



102 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

magical, something almost divine, in the country that 
could call forth that terrible longing, that splendid 
nostalgia, that immortal cry that has been echoed by so 
many hearts from one end of the world to the other 

" Dahin, dahin, mocht ich 
Omein Geliebter, mit dir zieh'n ! " 

After a day or two we started for London via Marseilles 
and Paris, and four days later I slept once more in my 
little bedroom at Hyde Park Gate South. 

It was fifteen years before I saw Italy again. But 
she, like Nature, has never yet disappointed the heart 
that loves her, and perhaps it was because I had so trusted 
her, even when she veiled her lovely face from me, that 
in the years to come I was to see her in all the radiance 
of her immortal beauty, with outstretched hands laden 
with precious gifts, that now, thank God, lie safe in mine. 




CHAPTER VIII. 

MY people gave me a very warm welcome on my return 
from Italy, though they must have been disappointed 
that I did not bring home the usual amount of travellers' 
tales. I felt depressed when one of my grown-up cousins 
asked me if I had seen this, that, and the other in Venice 
things of universal and historic interest. I had to 
say " No," each time, and felt like an idiot. When he 
heard that I had been to the Vatican to see the Pope, he 
said in a very serious voice 

" My dear Maudie, I am greatly disturbed to hear that 
the Holy Father picked you out of the crowd, and said, 
4 Mon enfant, difficilement vous vous sauverez.' Tell me, I 
beseech you, if there is any truth in this sinister report ? " 
I was indignant until I saw that he was laughing at me. 
And then I laughed too. Anyhow, whether my ultimate 
salvation was trembling in the balance or no, I had 
seen the celebrated Pio Nono around whom such contro- 
versies had raged, and my cousin had not, though he 
was many years older than I was, and had done all sorts 
of remarkable things. He was an extremely clever 
engineer ; his name was John Maclean Price, and some 
years later, when he was Surveyor of Public Works at 
Hong-kong, he laid out the gardens there, and I have 
been told by no less an authority than Mr. Alfred - Parsons, 
the well-known painter of so many lovely gardens, that 
they are really beautiful. 

Years and years afterwards he and Mr. Parsons helped 
me to plan my little garden at Broadway I was indeed 
fortunate to have such valuable assistance. I told Mary 
Anderson who had the charming old house next door 

to mine that my cousin had come down to help me with 

103 



104 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

my garden that I might have as nice a one as hers, and I 
remember how amused she was when I added that among 
other things he had said, " We must do our best to put 
her pretty nose out of joint (for once at all events !)." 
But so little did we succeed in our plot, that it was she 
who put our noses out of joint for ever and a day, for the 
garden and every tree I planted in it belongs to her at 
the present moment, and it is ten times bigger and ten 
times more beautiful than it was in my time. And as 
regards the little operation that my cousin was so anxious 
to perform on her pretty nose, I believe it is an open 
secret that no one living has ever succeeded in doing 
anything of the kind, and I must say, for the benefit of 
humanity in general and photographers in particular, 
I am glad our knavish tricks were so completely frustrated. 

When I returned from Italy our family party had 
dwindled down to five people mother, Auntie Dora, 
Emmie and her governess, and myself. But for a short 
time we were joined in London by my eldest sister, 
Fanny Marret, and her little girl Eva. She was a dear little 
creature very gifted and very amusing. I was devoted 
to her. I remember some one asking her one day, " And 
what is your papa doing in India, Evie ? " She answered 
promptly, " Making money for mumsey and me to 
spend in London." Another time, just before her father 
returned to India, she came down to breakfast with 
shining eyes and flushed cheeks. " Oh," she cried to 
her father, "I had such a lovely dream last night. I 
dreamed you had taken me to the bank with you, and 
the banking man was so kind. He opened a drawer full 
of gold, and he kept on saying, 4 Help yourself, Captain 
Marret, help yourself.' ' 

Poor child, she had heard so much about the rise and 
fall of the rupee, that at last money affairs obsessed her 
little mind. She died when she was only nine or ten 
years old. I felt her loss very, very much 

Fanny had a really charming soprano voice, and while 
she was at Hyde Park Gate with us she studied singing 
with Signor Alberto Randegger. One afternoon an 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 105 

unforgettable one for me I was sitting alone in the 
drawing-room when something compelled me to go to 
the piano and sing Byron's " Farewell, if ever fondest 
prayer." I knew the poem well, and improvised the 
music to the words without the slightest difficulty. It 
is the way I have composed the melody of almost every 
song I have ever written, naturally working up the 
accompaniment and adding many little details after- 
wards. I was so surprised so utterly taken aback with 
the rapidity with which the whole song had taken shape, 
that I thought it could only be a mere coincidence which 
would never be repeated. I wrote it down as well as I 
could, and asked my sister if she would show it to Signor 
Randegger, without, however, telling him who had written 
it merely saying it was a first attempt. She came home 
with the verdict after her next lesson. 

" Signor Randegger," she said, " played your song 
over, and he said, ' Whoever wrote this music ought 
most certainly to study seriously.' ' 

I was very much excited when I heard this, but it all 
seemed too good to be true. I felt perfectly certain it 
was my first and last attempt at anything of the sort. 
All through my life, when dotting down the final bars of 
a new composition, I have always thought, " Oh dear, 
I suppose this is the last thing I shall ever write." On 
this occasion I really felt that the sun was more likely 
to shine at midnight than that I should succeed in writing 
another note. When my mother said to me, " If you 
compose five more songs I will have them printed in a 
little book for you," I merely thought " Five more ? 
As if that were possible ! " A few days later I set Sully 
Prudhomme's beautiful words, " Ne jamais la voir ni 
1'entendre." This time I was far more excited ; it was 
a very much better song, and I gave it to one of my 
cousins to try over. She had a soprano voice and sang 
with a good deal of dramatic feeling. The melody I had 
composed was broad and flowing, and there was some- 
thing in the song that made it possible for a singer to 
"let himself go" in it. I was almost beside myself with 



106 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

joy when I heard her sing it for the first time. She 
threw herself into the spirit of the words and sang the 
music with real passion, as she has sung many a song of 
mine since then. " Who knows," I thought, " perhaps 
after all I may be able to write four more." 

What surprises me now is that the French song should 
have been so superior to many of those written after I 
began to learn harmony another proof that fools are 
not such fools after all when they occasionally rush in 
where angels fear to tread. No doubt the sudden know- 
ledge that one's success has been due to a lucky chance 
is rather a rude awakening, and it is some time before 
one can shake off the feeling of very real timidity when 
trying to judge of the merit of one's work. At least 
that was my case when I became aware how much there 
was to learn before one could stand firmly on one's feet. 
Still to go back to the French song there was no 
" meandering " about it ; it really did go straight to the 
point from beginning to end, which is, of course, the 
reason why my cousin Luchie Falcon was able to 
phrase it so successfully. The English song didn't begin 
badly, but well, it lost its figure at an early stage of 
its career. The French song, on the contrary, refused 
point-blank to spread in the wrong direction, and con- 
sequently kept its figure intact (being French, it did so 
instinctively, I suppose). 

We spent the winter of '74-' 75 in Torquay on account 
of my poor mother's health. She was a dreadful sufferer, 
but her patience was absolutely inexhaustible, and she 
was always ready to laugh with us. She used to be 
dreadfully distressed at times because, as young girls, 
neither Emmie nor I were as tidy as we ought to have 
been. We were always losing our various belongings 
from hairpins to jewellery. 

" I cannot understand it," she said one day quite 
dejectedly. ' You certainly have not inherited this 
unfortunate failing from me," which was true enough, 
for she was beautifully dainty with regard to her personal 
appearance, and quite exceptionally neat and tidy. " As 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 107 

to your grandfather," she went on, " he was always 
tirk a quatre epingles ; no matter the hour of the day or 
night, he always looked as though he had just come out 
of a bandbox." We must have been hard-hearted little 
wretches, for the vision of an old gentleman in naval 
uniform rising painfully from a cramped position in 
such an abode, in which he could not have ever expected 
to be really comfortable, did not impress us in the least. 
I suggested that unless my mother's memory were at 
fault, our grandfather must have looked exactly like a 
hat. Fortunately I had never heard the expression "a 
bad hat," or my remarks might have been still bolder. 
Poor mother was quite nonplussed for a moment, and 
the lecture came to what Mr. Weller would have called 
" rather a sudden pull-up," but it ended in a good laugh 
all round. Though my reformation was despaired of, 
Emmie was given to understand that her chances of 
resembling our grandfather were far greater than mine, 
as she was my junior by five years. 

Fortunately my mother did not exert herself in any 
way to bring about a physical resemblance in either 
Emmie's case or my own, for her poor dear old father 
had the misfortune to lose his nose at the battle of 
Trafalgar the first time, I am sure, that he ever mislaid 
anything ! Two heads may be better than one, but I 
shall always cling passionately to the belief that one nose 
is better than none, in spite of the fact that, as noseless 
ladies, we might have achieved a veritable triumph in 
post-impressionist circles, where we would probably have 
been looked upon as symbolical of the charity that 
suffereth long and is kind. For who can deny, even in 
these marvellous days, that it is perfectly impossible to 
turn up a non-existent nose at anything whatsoever, no 
matter how profound one's legitimate contempt ? 

That autumn it was decided to send Emmie to Paris 
for two or three years, so that she might finish her educa- 
tion under the supervision of Mademoiselle Lalande, and 
in consequence of this arrangement I was alone in Tor- 
quay that winter with mother and Auntie Dora. But I 



108 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was not dull. Indeed, that is a state of mind with which 
I have always steadily refused to have anything to do. 
I have been miserable enough, so miserable that I have 
dreaded going to sleep for fear of waking and facing 
the next morning, but whenever dullness in her dingy 
robes appears on my horizon, I am always to use the 
expression of an energetic old lady I once knew " packed 
and off " ! 

I rather liked Torquay. I enjoyed the mild climate 
and thought the surrounding country very lovely. We 
often went for long drives and got to know the neigh- 
bourhood really well. The house we lived in was cheer- 
ful and attractively situated, and when we discovered 
that the climate suited my mother and my aunt, and 
that Mr. W. S. Rockstro lived there and was willing to 
give me lessons in harmony and counterpoint, we were 
all perfectly satisfied. Mr. Rockstro had, as a young 
man, studied at the Leipzig Conservatorium, and was 
a personal friend of Mendelssohn a fact I simply could 
not get over. If he had told me that he had, in the days 
of his youth, played Cat's Cradle with the Queen of Sheba, 
or Puss in the Corner with Moses and Aaron, I could 
hardly have been more surprised. My outlook at that 
time must have been very like that of the man who re- 
fused to allow Signor Randegger into the artists' room 
while a concert was going on. 

"But you must let me in," he persisted; "I am 
taking part in the concert." 

" What is your name ? " 

" Randegger." 

" It isn't on the programme." 

" Indeed it is. I am accompanying one of my 
songs," and he pointed to a number beneath which stood 
the words : " Accompanied by the composer." 

" Oh," said the man, " in that case I expect it's all 
right, but I thought all real composers were supposed to 
be dead." 

And so did I ! At least I found it very difficult to 
believe that any composer whose music was already 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 109 

publicly acknowledged as classical should have been alive 
at the same time as one of my own friends. Mr. Rockstro 
was the kindest of teachers. He taught extremely well, 
and made the lessons very interesting. I was always 
sorry when they were over. Sometimes he told me 
anecdotes of his student life in Leipzig ; it seemed to 
me that no life could be more delightful, more exhilarating, 
and I hoped fervently that some such experience might 
fall to my lot. He also told me stories about various 
well-known musicians who lived in Leipzig in his time, 
and having once passed through that famous musical 
centre on my way from Dresden to Heidelberg as a little 
child, I at once peopled the streets I remembered with 
musical and literary celebrities. For the first time I 
heard about the historical Gewandhaus concerts, where 
so many masterpieces were introduced to the public ; 
but what fascinated me most of all were his accounts of 
the gay Sunday evening suppers at Mendelssohn's house, 
where he must have met everyone worth knowing in 
Leipzig. It took him back to his own youth to talk 
to me about those happy times. How he could resign 
himself so cheerfully to the lonely and monotonous life 
at Torquay, where he lived quite alone with his old 
mother, a chronic invalid, was an enigma to me, but 
certainly a more devoted son never lived. I was nineteen 
years old when I first knew him, and sometimes when 
I looked at his pale, worn face (he was a very delicate 
man consumptive, I believe), a great wave of compas- 
sion swept over me. It seemed to me so frightful that 
his life the life begun so gaily should die away on so 
mournful a note ; so frightful that his life the real 
life that matters should be over when mine had only 
just begun ! He can't have been more than fifty, if as 
much, when he taught me, and I wondered then, as I have 
often wondered since, at the heroic way some human 
beings devote their existence to their relations, rubbing 
off the colours from the palette of their own lives, in order 
that others should have the use of it ! 

Of course I know that when one has reached the age 



110 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

of forty-five or fifty, one is supposed to have descended 
from the mountain heights where dreams are dreamed, 
for one has reached middle age and the dull flat meadows 
where middle age is supposed to dwell in placid content 
where such things as love, the siren call of distant lands, 
the intoxicating wine of liberty, the hope of new warm 
friendships, do not even enter into the scheme of things. 
But is this true ? At all events at that age ? Do not the 
lips of middle age often refuse to admit what they know 
to be a sacred truth ? Are not people conscious, in 
hundreds and thousands of cases, that within them still 
flames the torch that illuminates the road lined with 
many and many a future year filled to the brim with a 
rich capacity for happiness ? But convention and fear 
of ridicule keep them silent and help to forge another 
link in the chain of pitiful lies that clank round middle 
age. And when a man or woman of forty-five or fifty 
makes the sacrifice of his or her life to an aged relative, 
and often enough to one who is not even dear to them, 
more than half the world ignores the beautiful unselfish- 
ness of the sacrifice, and speaks of it as something quite 
natural " at their age." 

And as I am on the subject of age, I should like to 
say what I think what my heart thinks, independently 
of my head about the man and woman, no longer 
young, sometimes on the verge of old age, who, in the 
afternoon or evening of their lives, exchange the lonely 
desert from which they have never seen happiness, ex- 
cept through the eyes of others, for the oasis, the beauti- 
ful oasis of wedded friendship and tenderness. I think 
they are right to accept the precious gift of happiness, 
and to accept it gratefully at the hands of Almighty 
God, whether He chooses to send it early or late. Isn't 
there a saying, " God's time is the right time " ? 

But I should also like to say what I think about those 
people whose imagination seems to desert them when 
they begin to criticise the man or woman, no longer 
young, who dares to love unhappily, without return, 
who, in their eyes, are indeed objects at which, to quote 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 111 

Heine, " the sun, the moon, the stars, all laugh." If one 
says quite simply that one sees nothing to laugh at in a 
situation unutterably sad, one is silenced by a succession 
of indignant expostulations. 

" Oh, my dear, don't be absurd ! The man's a fool ! 
As if any woman would give him a second thought ; he's 
as ugly as sin, anyhow, and hasn't a shilling to bless him- 
self with fat, into the bargain. Besides, really at his 
age ! " Or 

" A dowdy old thing like her ! Really, the woman 
can't have a grain of self-respect. She ought to be 
ashamed of herself. I've no patience with such a want of 
dignity at her age, tool" 

The last line of Heine's poem was not inspired by one 
of these ridiculous people, but it certainly might have 
been 

"-And I laugh too and die." 

But everyone is not the same. I have in my mind 
one human being who is kind, kind to the heart's core, 
without being in the least quixotic, from whom the 
dreary miseries of uninteresting people, their disappoint- 
ments, the cold indifference which surrounds themselves 
and their concerns, their often unfortunate appearance 
or manner, has never called forth any cheap sarcasm. 
I have seen the sad expression in many a face trans- 
formed too often into one of comparative happiness, 
almost gaiety, by this unfailing kindness, not to realise 
how entirely lovable a quality it is. 

But I have wandered far away from Torquay, and 
must return there. 

An old friend of my mother's Miss Agnes Carter 
lived not far from the house we had taken, and it was 
through her that I made the acquaintance of some 
delightful people, whose friendship made a very great 
difference in my life. Miss Carter had known my mother 
intimately when she was a girl in Normandy. She was 
the daughter of a clever journalist, who died suddenly, 
leaving her next to nothing. She was an extremely 



112 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

clever and amusing woman, and when I knew her she 
made her living by giving lessons in Torquay. My 
mother was very fond of her, and she was naturally 
our first visitor. After we had been a few days in 
Torquay, she said to us 

" You really must know the mother of two girls I am 
teaching. She is a very great friend of mine. I have 
spoken to her about you all, and she would so much like 
to come and call upon you." 

This lady was Mrs. Arbuthnot Feilden, the wife of the 
Rev. Henry Arbuthnot Feilden, who at that time was 
chaplain of St. Raphael's Home, a delightful house where 
poor ladies were able to go for rest and quiet after they 
had been ill. I believe it was, in fact, a Convalescent 
Home. He was a most agreeable and cultivated man. 
She was that most delightful of human beings, an un- 
worldly, thoroughbred woman of the world. She became 
one of my dearest friends, and to say she completely 
transformed Torquay for me is not to say half enough. 
She was genuinely devoted to music, and took a real 
interest in me when she heard that I was studying seriously. 
That winter she asked me if I would help her with a 
concert she was getting up for St. Raphael's Home, and, 
of course, I consented with all the pleasure in the world. 

It was on this occasion that for the first time I met 
Miss Mary Wakefield, who some years later became so 
well-known in musical circles for the successful musical 
competitions that she started all over the country. She 
was about twenty-three years old at that time, and had 
a charming contralto voice ; she also was a pupil, a very 
favourite pupil, of Signor Randegger, and sang really 
well, for she was an admirable musician into the bargain. 

I liked her from the first moment I saw her. There 
was something whole-hearted and generous about her 
that made an instantaneous appeal to one. I wish, how 
I wish she were alive now ! It would be such a joy to me 
were she to know how gladly I acknowledge, in this little 
record of my own life, all the beauty and interest she 
helped to bring into it. Her outlook was a far wider one 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 113 

than mine from one point of view. In the first place she 
was four years older than myself, and in the second, 
she had had the inestimable advantage of associating 
on intimate terms with many celebrated men and women, 
whose names, I am ashamed to say, meant absolutely 
nothing to me when I first met her. I really knew very 
few root-and-branch English people. My own immediate 
family had lived so much abroad, and so had I, that most 
of our friends were people who had also spent the greater 
part of their lives out of England. I remember how 
much Mary Wakefield interested me. I longed to know 
more of her. Mrs. Feilden was devoted to her. 

I don't remember much about the concert we gave, 
except that for the first time two of my songs were per- 
formed. They were sung by my cousin, Miss Sophie 
Robertson. I remember the way everybody laughed at 
me when I was recalled. My dear old friend, Mr. Rose- 
Innes, who came down for the occasion, handed me on 
to the platform, and I felt so overwhelmed and shy when 
I found myself for the first time in front of an audience, 
that I am told I buried my face in his shirt front. I 
never heard the end of it, and was chaffed to death about 
the way I had behaved. Before we all separated after 
the concert, Mary Wakefield asked me to come and see 
her in her lovely home, Sedgwick, near Kendal, and I 
accepted with alacrity. I had never stayed on a country- 
house visit in England, and was longing to know what it 
was like. It was then I heard all about the Lake Country 
and the celebrated poets who had made it their home. 
One of the stories I heard from Mrs. Wakefield was, I 
thought, very amusing. She happened to be driving 
past Wordsworth's house, and the cabman turned round 
and said to her : "It was a poet as lived there, ma'am, 
'e's dead now, but I 'ear 'is good lady carries on the 
business." 

I helped at another charity concert before I left 

Torquay, but this time the concert took place at a village 

near Dartmoor, and the programme consisted of a series of 

musical (?) disasters. To begin with, hardly a ticket was 

8 



114 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

sold ! Finally, when the unfortunate rector of the parish 
was on the verge of hysterics, the squire who was half 
mad decided on sending his butler to represent him at 
the concert. This was a move in the right direction. 
One stall was sold, and everyone cheered up. The butler 
sat for some time in solitary state, looking exactly like a 
full stop ! I believe the rector in despair drove two other 
shy servants into the front seats later on in the evening. 
The one butler-filled stall got on his nerves. No wonder ! 
If that poor functionary enjoyed himself it is more than 
anyone else did. One of the pieces on the programme 
was : " What are the wild waves saying ? " No doubt they 
were saying what everyone else was thinking, i.e. that 
the concert was quite enough to drive them wild ! 

I forget what I played, but I distinctly remember 
being asked if I felt nervous ! Considering there was 
hardly a soul in the room there was really nothing to be 
nervous about. A scandalous cottage piano had been 
carried from the rectory to the concert-room through the 
pelting rain, and the keys were sopping when I sat down 
to play. My hands slipped off every other second, and 
I was thankful when the whole thing was over. I believe 
we made 8, but my mother had sent 5, and I feel 
certain someone else must have sent 2, 15s., as there 
were only a few labourers and village children in the 
back seats. The concert was given for the express 
purpose of buying a harmonium for the parish church. 
I remember my genuine surprise when one of the rector's 
daughters said to me next day 

" The whole thing has been far more successful than 
we anticipated ; so much so that we have given up all 
idea of a harmonium and intend to buy an organ ! " 

I nearly died of laughter, but to my credit, be it 
said, I did not ask if she meant to provide the parish 
church with a barrel organ ! 

It was my first experience of a village concert in 
England, and I must say I got a good deal of fun out of 
it. The rector had twelve children, and his income was 
under 200 a year ! We sat in the kitchen the morning 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 115 

after the concert, as it was the only room in the house 
where there was a fire. It was a charming kitchen, and 
I thoroughly enjoyed the experience. Some of the sons 
were at Oxford. They were all clever and had won 
scholarships. I remember thinking how much more 
tragic poverty was for the daughters than for the sons. 
The eldest son was tutor to some rich boy, and was 
travelling round the world with him, while his poor sister 
sat in the kitchen mending stockings, and when she sat 
anywhere else her nose was red, when it wasn't blue, from 
cold. I thought the contrast between those lives was 
horribly tragic. The first time I saw him in a nice dress- 
suit and remembered the appalling and dowdy dress his 
sister had worn at the concert, I could have torn it off 
his back with sheer rage at the difference that began 
with their clothes, but that, alas ! did not end there. Of 
course it was all perfectly fair, for the clothes were the 
result of his own hard work, but she hadn't even had 
the chance of working ! 

They all went quite out of my life, and I heard no 
more about any of them for years and years, when, to my 
surprise and delight, one of them made a good marriage 
and gave a musical party, at which I was engaged as one 
of the artists ! 

Taking it altogether, the winter had proved a charming 
one for all of us. My mother and aunt had enjoyed the 
beautiful climate and the pleasant society with which 
they had been so unexpectedly surrounded, and I had 
enjoyed everything that had come my way with one 
exception, however I had a perfect terror of the world 
suddenly coming to an end, which often cast its shadow 
over everything. Sometimes I quite dreaded going 
upstairs, even for five minutes, to wash my hands or 
change my frock. I thought : " It would be just like my 
luck if it happened while the others were downstairs." Of 
course I often forgot all about it; after all, it really was 
not my affair, and I tried to realise that when it did 
happen I would not be the only person to be taken at a 
disadvantage. It was an experience that would certainly 



116 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

have to be shared with one or two others. So I cheered 
up and learned to skate on rollers and went to the rink 
with a very nice boy of my own age Morrison Denison 
with whom I skated for hours together to the strains of 
spirited waltzes and polkas which I didn't despise in the 
least, although I had been through Richter's Harmony 
and had begun to study Cherubini's Counterpoint with 
kind Mr. Rockstro. 

Before we left Torquay I persuaded my mother to 
allow me to invite Miss , the daughter of the concert- 
giving clergyman, to come and stay with us for a week. 
She died many, many years ago, poor girl, but never 
shall I forget the way she enjoyed that week, though it 
was in a way peculiar to herself, for she had barely an 
ounce of spirit left with which to enjoy anything here 
below. Still that ounce went on its way rejoicing from 
one blissful Monday morning to the following Saturday. 
Before she left us she confided to me that the height of 
her ambition was to go to an Oxford Commemoration 
and to pay a round of calls. I could have wept when I 
heard this. Fortunately we had a day still left, and 
though it was out of my power to take her to Oxford, I 
made up my mind to go and call on every human being 
I knew in Torquay, and to take her with me. I thought 
it was a dreary sort of ideal, but still, what did that 
matter ? And off we started in a fly, jogging up and 
down the hills of Torquay to visit people we hardly knew 
from Adam and cared for rather less. I honestly believe 
the classic words, " Is Mrs. So-and-so at home ? " 
repeated at intervals, gave her a succession of thrills. 
After her deadly monotonous life at home, was it any 
wonder that every front door of every pretty house we 
went to assumed the aspect of the gate of Paradise 
a Paradise in which she might be invited to partake of 
exquisite, unknown joys ? The visits were sometimes 
dull and sometimes pleasant, but in every case, alas ! she 
sat silently apart, taking no part in the conversation. 
Naturally she made no new friends, which distressed me 
a good deal, as, in my heart of hearts, I had hoped that 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 117 

the visit to our house would prove to be only the first 
of many others that eventually might really cause the 
sluggish stream of her existence to flow into other 
channels. 

I felt quite touched when she wished me good-bye. 
She threw her arms round my neck and said in rather a 
hoarse voice 

" Darling Maude, I have so enjoyed myself." 

But I felt that my attempt to play the fairy god- 
mother had been a regular failure. No fairy prince had 
turned up for her either at home, or at the skating rink, 
or even during the celebrated " round of calls," and 
my only consolation was that no fairy prince had turned 
up for me either. I am bound to say that in Torquay 
these desirable beings were chiefly conspicuous by their 
absence ! 

All the same, I was really sorry when the day of our 
departure drew nigh. Friends like Mrs. Feilden don't 
grow in the hedges. I listened to the advice she gave 
me, as many a girl listens to a woman she admires and 
respects when she doesn't, for some extraordinary and 
utterly incomprehensible reason, listen to her own mother. 
We often had long talks together, and she opened my 
eyes to a good many things, among others to the beauty 
that lies in the never-failing consideration for others. 
How well I remember her saying to me once, when I 
looked puzzled : " Oh, I don't mean any extraordinary 
sacrifice ! This is the sort of thing I mean When you 
are just about to take a comfortable arm-chair, give a look 
round the room and see if there isn't someone older than 
yourself who is standing, or some tired person or some 
delicate person who really needs that chair far more 
than you do. In fact, stick all your life to the golden rule : 
' Think of yourself last of all,' and you won't go far 
wrong." 

" Ah," she said to me once, referring to this con- 
sideration for others in which I had evidently been want- 
ing, " I can tell you this much, my child true courtesy 
to others, no matter who they may be, is the hall-mark 



118 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

of a thoroughbred man or woman, and when it comes 
from the heart it is uncommonly like true religion." 

And then she won me over for good and all, for she 
added : " And if you want to know what this sort of 
woman looks like, you have only got to look at your 
own mother and Auntie Dora." 

And I did look at them with quite different eyes after 
this little talk, and was kind enough to think their opinion 
might be worth something after all, though they were 
only just " Mother and Auntie Dora." 

Another friend from whom I parted with real regret 
was a charming and clever woman of about thirty-three, 
Miss Edith Bromley. She was either a daughter or niece 
of Sir Henry Bromley, I believe, but she lived in Torquay 
with an old friend of hers Miss Baldwin to whom she 
was much attached. Miss Baldwin was a very lovable 
woman of about sixty, and a touching and beautiful friend- 
ship existed between them. Edith Bromley was an ardent 
lover of books, and when she found out how much I also 
cared for reading, she was kinder than ever, and advised 
me a good deal on that subject, lending me many a 
volume. I spent several delightful and profitable hours 
with her. She certainly did most of the talking, for 
she had a thousand interesting things to say, about 
which I knew absolutely nothing, and for once, at all 
events, I held my tongue and was an eager and inter- 
ested listener. Mallock's New Republic had just come 
out. I suppose she thought I was too young to read that 
brilliant book, but she read me extracts from it which 
made a very great impression on me. Could anyone 
ever forget such remarks as these ? 

" Life is but a preface to Eternity ! " 

" Yes, but it is a preface that is generally dedicated 
to the wrong person." 

I quote from memory, and the actual words may not 
be correct, but that was the gist of the matter. Many 
years afterwards I read the whole book through, and I 
think that the two first chapters of Book III. ought to 
be read by every boy and girl on reaching the age of 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 119 

eighteen. Never was there a more perfect description 
of what true and genuine culture means. I really cannot 
resist the temptation of quoting one short sentence 

" Culture ... is the education of all our tastes, 
of all our powers of enjoying life." 

I wouldn't be without a copy of The New Republic 
in my library and chiefly for the sake of those two 
inspiring chapters for anything in the world. They 
are stimulating to the last degree, and I never read them 
without feeling as though my mind had suddenly in- 
herited a great fortune, and if that isn't enough to make 
one feel grateful to an author, I don't know what is. 



CHAPTER IX. 

WHEN Mr. Rockstro knew that I was again to spend 
some months at Hyde Park Gate, he strongly urged me 
to continue my studies with a friend of his Mr. Oliver 
May. He said he was quite the best teacher he knew. 
And he never spoke a truer word. Never in my life 
have I come across anyone professing to teach composi- 
tion or the pianoforte who more efficiently or more 
faithfully fulfilled the task. And he knew how to impart 
his own knowledge in a way that was almost unique. 
His patience was inexhaustible. He continued to ex- 
plain away difficulties till everything was as clear as 
crystal. He never left one in doubt about anything, 
though sometimes he would say, laughing 

' You know I really can't give you any stock receipts 
for composition." 

He made me understand that only gradually could 
one hope to come into one's kingdom ; his personality 
was sympathetic and very attractive. I loved the old 
man, who was so good and patient with me, and longed 
to do him credit. I often said to him 

" Oh, Mr. May, what an idiot you must think me." 
Then the kindest look came into his dear old blue eyes, 
and he would screw them up and say 

" Well, Miss Maude, do you think me an idiot because 
I don't know Chinese ? Why in the world shouldn't 
you find this counterpoint difficult when you have never 
done it before ? Now, then, let's get on." 

And we would plod on till my head reeled, and he 
would say 

" I think you have had about enough of this " 

But in spite of headaches, his lessons had a splendidly 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 121 

stimulating effect on me. Here was someone who was 
quite certain that I wished to work seriously; never 
from the first moment did he treat me as an amateur, 
and for that alone I felt more grateful to him than words 
can say so grateful that I almost worked myself ill to 
please him. The only thing he ever teased me about 
was the enormous amount of music paper I wasted. He 
used laughingly to call me " the girl of wealth and pride," 
and assured me that many an overture or symphony had 
been written on less paper than I wasted on my counter- 
point exercises, or on some wretched little song. The 
fact is and perhaps this is the moment to be quite honest 
and to state what is a simple but undeniable fact I am 
not at all quick at grasping anything that is not abso- 
lutely lucid, absolutely clear. To this day I am obliged 
to make constant copies of anything I may be composing 
in order to realise exactly where I am, and what it is all 
about. A few erasures or additions in pencil confuse 
me completely. There seems to be a fissure in my brain 
box that can only be spanned by dogged perseverance. 
Once I get across it I am all right again. The fact is, 
my brain seldom goes at an " Allegro moderato." It 
sometimes feels hustled if set to the tempo of a Funeral 
March ! At other times it goes off " Presto furioso " 
for hours on end without the slightest feeling of 
fatigue ! 

Apropos of this little idiosyncrasy I must tell a story. 
Last year I was lunching with a very kind friend, Mrs. 
William Rathbone, who, when I arrived at her house, 
said to me 

" Miss is also lunching here. She is supposed 

to be an extraordinarily good palmist. Do let her look at 
your hand. I know she has never seen you, and I have 
not told her that you are coming. It would be interest- 
ing to hear what she has to say, if you don't mind." 

I said I hadn't the slightest objection to her reading 
my hand, provided she limited herself to character reading. 

Well, she certainly was astonishingly clever, but the 
most interesting thing that happened during the stance 



122 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was certainly the following. Looking a trifle disconcerted, 
she said apologetically 

" I am afraid you will be annoyed at something I am 
going to say." 

"Oh no," I answered. "What does it matter? 
None of us are pieces of perfection." 

" Well," she said. " Your hand shows plainly- 
again she hesitated. 

I encouraged her to go on, and so did Mrs. Rathbone ; 
our curiosity was aroused. 

" I can't help it ! " she blurted out ; " the fact is, 
you are sometimes astonishingly stupid ! " 

Mrs. Rathbone protested indignantly, but I couldn't 
help laughing. I told her she had hit the right nail on 
the head and was absolutely right. She continued to say 
that this streak of stupidity went hand in hand with 
another that wasn't stupid at all, which I heard with a 
pleasant sense of relief ! She kept on saying 

" Of course I do not know who you are, but that is 
what is marked on your hand." 

After telling her again how absolutely right she was, 
I said 

" Isn't there something I can do to get rid of that 
queer dull feeling that sometimes takes the edge off my 
powers of perception ? " 

She answered : " No, there is nothing you can do, 
but you have such a very unusual amount of perseverance 
that you will generally achieve what you really set your- 
self to accomplish, only it will cost you far more labour 
than it would cost someone else with the same amount of 
talent." 

And then she added 

" For there certainly is some special talent marked 
very clearly in your hand, but what it is I cannot make 
out." 

I am positively certain that there is no one who has 
ever tried to teach me anything, from orchestration to 
the game of Poker, or from the Russian language to the 
knitting of baby shoes, who will deny the truth of what 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 123 

that palmist saw during the half-hour she examined my 
hand. Should anyone chivalrously attempt to do so, 
I, for one, shall ungratefully suspect him of a fissure in 
his own brain ! 

I wrote several songs during the months I studied 
with Mr. May, one or two of which I admired enormously 
they moved me to tears ! What was my horror and 
indignation when he unhesitatingly advised me to burn 
the whole lot. I couldn't believe my ears ! I thought 
he must be raving mad. Alas, he was quite abnormally 
sane ! I felt certain that after I had lovingly pointed 
out all their secret beauties he would certainly revise his 
judgment. But he only screwed up his kind eyes and 
looked kinder than ever, He had a funny little habit of 
rubbing his nose and eyes before saying anything of im- 
portance, and on this occasion he scrubbed away at them 
for half a minute or so. Then he said 

" Be brave and burn them. You can do lots better 
than that." 

I thought desperately, " Lots better ? Jamais de la 
vie." 

And I didn't destroy them for some days. I really 
hadn't the courage. I thought to myself 

" It is all very fine, my good Mr. May, but you little 
think what you are asking me to do. These are probably 
the last things I shall ever write, and you are calmly 
suggesting that I should burn my swan songs before 
lifting up my voice to sing them to an admiring and 
appreciative world ! " 

During those days Life was a hollow mockery ! 

But I burned those songs thank goodness ! 

When July came round my mother went to Wiesbaden 
for a cure, and Emmie and I went with her. There I met 
Miss Louise Jarrett, the daughter or adopted daughter, 
I forget which of Sarah Bernhardt's famous manager. 
I was first attracted to her by her extraordinary likeness 
to Christine Nilsson, whose singing I loved, and who was 
really the most ideal " Marguerite " it is possible to 
imagine. She looked lovely when she played the part as 



124 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

quite a young woman in London. Somehow or other I 
struck up an acquaintance with Miss Jarrett, and when 
she told me in the course of conversation that she was 
intimately acquainted with Christine Nilsson and would 
ask me to meet her, I was in the seventh heaven of delight. 

From Wiesbaden we moved on to Heidelberg. I was 
excited and happy at the idea of again seeing dear old 
Mel and all my old haunts, and it says a good deal for 
the real beauty and charm of Heidelberg that on re- 
visiting it I thought it even lovelier than before. We 
only stayed there two or three days. During one of 
those days there was a frightful thunderstorm, and while 
it was going on I set to music the words in Goethe's 
Faust : " Es war ein Konig in Thule." It is in the first 
volume of German songs that were printed a few years 
later. They were published by Stanley Lucas, Weber & 
Co., who at that time had a shop in New Bond Street, 
where the Parisian Diamond Company now stands. 

I shall never forget the welcome Mel gave me. There 
was something so touching about her whole attitude 
that to this day it makes me cry when I remember it. 
I never realised how much she must have centred her 
affection on me as a little child till I saw her again in 
Heidelberg. She looked thin and ill, for she had almost 
worn herself out, working for her little nephews and 
nieces, who, owing to her, received a splendid education. 

The tears were streaming down her face as she kissed 
me again and again ; she had a scar on one cheek, and I 
remember feeling as if I could have defended Mel against 
the whole world when I saw the tears running over that 
scar. There was an expression of such love and kindness 
in her eyes that my heart went out to her in a rush of 
love. It would have been horrible had it been otherwise, 
for any pretence of affection would have been a cruel 
blow to her. I spent the whole afternoon of one day 
alone with her and a dear old friend of hers. How we 
enjoyed ourselves ! I played to Mel, and she was so 
delighted to think I had some talent for composition 
that she laughed and cried with pleasure, and hugged me 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 125 

after every little song I produced ! I wonder if one is 
ever loved in after life so utterly unselfishly as in the days 
of one's youth by one of these childless mothers ! As I 
write, I think of a little boy far away in South America 
whom I have never seen. He has no mother of his own, 
but I doubt if any mother living could be more to him 
than my niece Anita. Only a few years ago she was 
more like an independent jolly boy than a girl. But 

now What miracles little children can work, and what 

miracles of love they inspire, and how one's heart goes 
out to the Anitas of the world, and how it loves and 
understands them ! 

That autumn Mr. Rose-Innes invited me to go for a 
trip to Chile with him and his three daughters. They 
were to be away about six months. I was longing to go. 
I had heard so much about the delightful life that young 
people led out there, the extraordinary liberty they were 
allowed to have, the balls and tertullas 1 that followed 
each other in endless succession, the picnics, the moon- 
light riding parties, and the cortege of admirers that 
every self-respecting damsel managed to surround herself 
with, that I must say I refused with something very like 
a heavy heart. But, had I accepted, mother and Auntie 
Dora would have been left quite alone, and I couldn't 
bear the idea of that. So they sailed without me, and I 
made up my mind to spend the winter in Bath with my 
people. 

Heavens ! What an awful place it seemed to me ! 
I don't know what it may be like now, but when I was 
twenty, it was about as lively as a churchyard ! The 
whole place seemed to be inhabited by old Generals and 
Admirals with one foot in the grave and the other in a 
list slipper ! Old ladies in black silk gowns, lace caps, 
and bugle-trimmed capes, kept them company, and they 
all went to tea-parties at each others' houses. Some- 
times I was invited to one of these awful functions. 
Needless to say I refused whenever it was possible. I 
1 Small dances. 



126 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

still occasionally gave a thought to the end of the world, 
but the gaieties of Bath had so chastened me, had reduced 
me to such depths of depression, that I began to feel 
that it was my own end that was far more likely to occur ! 
Alas, neither took place, and I had to face the problem 
that now stared me in the face, i.e. how to go through the 
rest of the winter without allowing dear old mother and 
Auntie Dora to see how I hated and loathed the place. 
I made up my mind to work hard at composition, and to 
study French regularly. I spoke it quite fluently and 
rather well, but still there were a hundred ways in which 
I felt certain I could improve myself. That winter I did 
lots of harmony exercises, and wrote a few songs, three 
of which were subsequently published. One was an 
" Ave Maria," the other was " The Lassie I love best," by 
Burns, and the third was a little poem by Moore called 
" When Twilight Dews," which my dear little niece, Anita 
Compton, persistently called " Twilight Jews." These 
" Twilight Jews " were singularly un-Semitic ! At all 
events they refused to have anything to do with financial 
success. 

I sent all three songs to Mr. May, and asked him to tell 
me what he thought of them, and this time his verdict 
was far more satisfactory. He liked the melody of the 
Ave Maria, but advised me to make the accompaniment 
more interesting. After a few days I again sent it to 
him, and when he returned the manuscript, it was accom- 
panied by a really encouraging letter. He said all three 
songs would pass muster. After this letter I determined 
on a bold stroke. I remembered that my Wiesbaden 
friend, Miss Louise Jarrett, had told me that she and her 
father shared their home in Tavistock street with Mr. 
James and William Davison. Mr. James Davison was 
musical critic to the Times. I wrapped up my three 
songs, and, though I felt very nervous at the step I was 
taking, I wrote a little letter saying I was sending him 
some MSS. that I had been studying for a year or so, 
and that I would be extremely grateful to him if he 
would tell me exactly what he thought of them. I told 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 127 

him that I would abide entirely by his decision, and that, 
unless he advised me to go on studying, I would abandon 
all idea of composing, as I hated the idea of wasting my 
time trying to do something I might never be able to 
accomplish. I felt that if the verdict of a critical outsider 
were favourable as favourable as that of Mr. May, for 
instance I would be justified in hoping that I might, in 
course of time, compose something worth listening to. 

I waited anxiously for three or four days, and then 
his answer came. I have it still, locked away in a case 
of books that, more fortunate than myself, is at this 
present moment in beautiful Sicily, with many of my 
other possessions, so I can't quote it entirely, but well 
do I remember the last sentence. After a letter that was 
more than kind, he finished with the words 

44 Go on and prosper." 

I nearly cried with pleasure and relief when I read 
them. I felt now that I really might " go ahead " ; even 
Bath seemed perfectly bearable, and before I turned my 
back upon it for ever, I was, to my amusement and 
indignation, asked to chaperon a spinster of forty-three 
to a concert! She said it was quite impossible for her 
to go alone. I wondered why ! She was certainly very 
nice-looking, but still at forty-three ! I was twenty, 
but after this I felt that I was a seasoned woman of the 
world ! If I were able to take ladies of forty-three under 
my wing, there was no reason to suppose I would not be 
able to take very good care of myself. I don't know 
that I have managed to do so very successfully, but still 
that is an irrelevant detail ! 

Shortly after Christmas I fell ill, and towards the end 
of February my mother determined to return to London. 
Our house at Hyde Park Gate was let till Easter, but we 
took rooms in Bayswater, close to a house where my 
aunt, Mrs. Gerald Hyde-Smith, was staying with her two 
daughters Sophie and Fanny Robertson. And now I 
should like to say something about them, because Sophie 
was very closely concerned with my introduction to the 
big world of London. 



128 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Their mother, my Aunt Fanny, was my mother's 
youngest sister. She was called Fanny after Lady 
Nelson, who was very fond of my grandparents. Before 
the birth of my aunt she had asked them to call the 
child Horatio if a boy after Lord Nelson ; if a girl 
Fanny after herself. When a banquet was given some 
years ago to the surviving sons and daughters of the 
officers who fought at Trafalgar, I believe my aunt was 
the only daughter alive to accept the invitation. She is 
still alive, I am happy to say, and it is certainly no wonder 
that her children made a success when they were before 
the public as professional singers many years ago, for 
they inherited not only her musical talent, but a great 
deal of her charm and attraction. Her sense of humour 
is still so keen that I am quite sure she will forgive me 
for giving her away on one subject. She has a perfect 
genius for using the wrong word " every time," as they 
say in America ! One day, while strongly recommending 
a particularly delectable pudding to a friend, she said 

" My dear, you never in your life tasted anything so 
delicious ! I will send you the receipt. You will bless 
me for it to the end of your days, for without any exaggera- 
tion it is simply food for the dogs ! " 

After some years of widowhood she married the Rev. 
Gerald Hyde-Smith, and shortly afterwards they all went 
to live in Cornwall, where he had been appointed Rector 
of Bodmin. Both her daughters had beautiful voices. 
I dare say many people may still remember Miss Sophie 
Robertson (now Mrs. Stanley Stubbs), whose phenomen- 
ally high soprano voice attracted a good deal of attention 
during the four or five years of her professional life. 
Her sister Fanny (now Mrs. Hallowes) also had a fine 
contralto voice, and their brother Jack was the fortunate 
possessor of a really charming tenor of unusually pleasing 
quality. 

Both sisters married and said good-bye to public life 
after a very brief apparition, but my cousin Jack stuck 
to the musical profession. Two of my songs he sang 
really beautifully and with very great success, i.e. " To 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 129 

Mary," and " A Youth once loved a Maiden." In fact, 
he sang them so often that one day I said to him, laughing 

" You know, Jack, they really are not the only songs 
I have written." 

He was engaged by Sir Henry Irving to sing " Sigh 
no more Ladies," when he produced Much Ado about 
Nothing at the Lyceum (his mother, of course, called 
it " Much Ado about Nothing at all "), and the way he 
sang that song was certainly among the most attractive 
things in the performance. Although as Balthazar he 
had to call himself " an ill singer," the moment he had 
finished the last note I am quite certain that very few 
people in the house were ever found to agree with him. 
His personal appearance, too, was entirely in his favour, 
and how often have I not heard Mary Anderson with 
whom he was a great favourite allude to him as " your 
attractive cousin with the lovely voice and merry brown 
eyes." 

Both his sisters and he studied entirely with Signor 
Alberto Randegger, who was very much attached not 
only to them but also to their mother. He certainly was 
a good and faithful friend to them, both in private and 
public, and I never heard him mentioned by any of them 
except with affection and gratitude. 

Both the sisters and brother were great favourites 
with every one, and I must say it was small wonder. They 
were all young, nice-looking, full of spirits, they sang 
delightfully, and were always willing to perform whether 
it were for the benefit of their friends or for the charities 
in which their friends were interested. They never 
allowed anything to weigh on their minds for more than 
five minutes, and it goes without saying that they never 
bored themselves or any one else for even one ! They 
had the social gift to a quite unusual extent ; this they 
also undoubtedly inherited from their mother, who was 
the most popular of women wherever she went. It is 
my belief that all the members of that family were born 
with rose-coloured spectacles on their baby noses, and 
that they must have been in the habit of presenting 
9 



130 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

another pair to everyone with whom they came in contact, 
for, with very few exceptions, they were spoken of with 
universal kindness and affection. Whatever they did, 
they did well; they were capital at games, rode well, 
danced well, in fact, they were youth incarnate, and when 
they first came before the public they were three of the 
happiest young butterflies that any one could wish to 
meet. The two sisters really drifted into professional 
life, for neither of them had ever had the slightest intention 
of taking seriously to music. They had first begun to 
give concerts with the object of raising money enough 
to restore their stepfather's church. They sang for some 
time all over England, organising concerts wherever they 
had friends and acquaintances, and generally secured the 
help of other clever amateurs who were only too willing 
to go on tours with so charming a party. 

They often had the most amusing adventures. At 
one of their concerts the hall was not what one might 
call " sold out ! " for the audience consisted of one 
soldier and a woman with a baby in her arms. She 
had calmly wheeled the baby's perambulator into the 
artists' room, and then had taken her choice of the many 
stalls left at her disposal. My cousins waited for a 
considerable time before starting to sing, fully confident 
that any amount of seats would be sold at the door. 
But time went on and the hall remained empty. Finally, 
the baritone, a gay young officer with a charming voice, 
suggested that the tenor should wheel him on to the 
platform in the baby's perambulator ! This was actually 
done amid roars of laughter, and to the delight of the 
woman and the soldier in the audience. I don't suppose 
they went through the programme, but I am quite 
certain that they all won golden opinions from their 
very limited audience, and I am only sorry I wasn't 
there myself, for it would have been a unique experience 
and one I would have thoroughly enjoyed. 

The late Lord Dudley was, I believe, the first person 
to ask my cousin Sophie to sing professionally at his 
house in Park Lane. I well remember the discussion 




FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 131 

that took place in our drawing-room at Hyde Park 
Gate when the subject was mentioned to my mother. 
She hated the idea of such a thing. She had been brought 
up entirely in France, where to this day the feeling is 
very strongly against a gentlewoman appearing in 
public, either as an actress or a singer. My aunt, 
keen on raising the money for her husband's church 
(she had worked as hard as any of the others, taking 
her part in duets and trios, and playing almost all the 
accompaniments at the various concerts they had given), 
and very much more modern than my mother, who 
was her senior by a good many years, was not only 
in favour of her daughter accepting the engagement 
that Lord Dudley had offered her, but she also approved 
of her singing professionally. Needless to say she 
carried the day, and, backed by Signer Randegger, who 
felt quite sure they were running no risk of failure, both 
my cousins began to sing in public. Sophie very soon 
had as many engagements as she cared to accept, both 
public and private. I remember distinctly hearing my 
cousins at St. James's Hall when they sang in Verdi's 
Requiem. Their voices blended quite beautifully in 
the lovely "Agnus Dei"; the opening phrase sung in 
octaves by the soprano and contralto affected me 
strongly. I did not know it at all at that time, and 
well though I know it now, that "Agnus Dei" always 
touches me by its purity and simplicity and strong 
religious feeling. 

It goes without saying that Sophie, whose voice 
reached up to G in alt, without the slightest difficulty, 
was perpetually requested to include the famous song 
from the Magic Flute in her programmes. Two or 
three of my songs also figured in her repertoire. One 
of them was a lyric, by Heine, which I had been bold 
enough to translate into French, as she did not know 
German. She made a great success of it, and it is in 
a great measure to that little song that I was invited to 
my first party in what it has been agreed to call "the 
great world." It all came about very simply. Sophie 



132 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was asked one day to sing at a charity concert at 
Grosvenor House. The concert was, I believe, organised 
by Mrs. Gladstone. My cousin put this little song on 
the programme and asked me to accompany it. I 
forget whether I was allowed to do so, for my mother's 
prejudices against these public appearances were very 
deeply rooted. But at all events I was at the concert, 
and after it was over Mrs. Gladstone came to ask Sophie 
if she would be able to accept an engagement to sing 
at a party she was giving at her own house in a few 
days. I believe Mr. Gladstone was Leader of the 
Opposition at the time, and they were living in Mr. 
Arthur Balfour's house in Carlton Gardens. Mrs. 
Gladstone added that Princess Louise was dining with 
them, and that they wished to have some music after 
dinner. She was seated between Sophie and myself as 
she said all this. I was just twenty, and although I 
had travelled a great deal for my age, I had been very 
little in society. It all sounded tremendously brilliant 
to me. I began to think it was rather grand to have 
a cousin who was invited to sing to Royalties and Ex- 
Prime Ministers, and was listening to the conversation 
with the deepest interest and attention when suddenly 
Mrs. Gladstone turned to me 

" Would you like to come ? " she said kindly. 

I was so much taken aback at this unexpected invita- 
tion that I hardly know what I said, but one thing is 
certain I did not refuse it ! I was very much excited. 
I was dying to see Mr. Gladstone. Mr. Rose-Innes, who 
was a staunch Liberal, was always talking about him, 
and I wished to goodness he could have been invited 
also ! I felt rather shy at the idea of meeting a real 
live Royalty, but hoped to survive it, though the mere 
idea of such a thing thrilled me to the backbone. I am 
quite sure I felt like a youth I once heard of who went 
to Paris to see what he called " Lar vee." He, however, 
if rumour was correct (which it probably wasn't), con- 
tented himself with driving round and round the Bois de 
Boulogne at the wrong hour, whereas I had every intention 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 133 

of driving straight to Carlton Gardens at precisely the 
right one. Sophie had arranged to sing one or two of 
my songs, and I was to accompany her. I remember 
being very thankful that I happened to have a lovely 
new evening frock for the occasion. I had just been to 
Paris with the Rose-Innes's, and had frivolously spent 
everything I possessed on pretty clothes, in fact, I had 
spent more than I possessed, and my kind brother Fred, 
who was at that time a young lieutenant in the 4th 
Dragoon Guards, was so full of sympathy for the tragic 
state of my finances, that he presented me with 20 to 
avoid my being " found out." This prevented me from 
getting the " wigging " I deserved, and I blessed him 
then, as I have often blessed him since, for many a dear, 
kind action. I remember one quite comical incident in 
connection with this celebrated party, and it was comical 
in spite of it being connected with a solemn vow I had 
taken. 

Mrs. Gladstone's party " To have the honour of 
meeting H.R.H. Princess Louise," occurred in Lent, 
and during that time we were in the habit of making 
some little sacrifice of our personal tastes. This Lent 
I had soared to unusual heights. (Mile Islande would 
have said to me, had she been there, " Ah, ma pauvre 
Maude, en voila encore une de tes idees lumineuses ! ") 
I had actually conceived the heroic idea of not curling 
my hair from Ash Wednesday to Easter Sunday. It 
was the fashion at that time for everyone to cut the 
front hair in a fringe, which was curled and trained to 
lie lightly on the forehead, while the back hair was worn 
in a coil on the nape of the neck. I believe Mrs. Langtry 
was responsible for this coiffure. When I realised that 
I would have to go to my first big London party without 
curling my hair, I knew the full meaning of the word 
despair. It was one thing to look a pious fright at 
home, another to look a pious fright at Mrs. Gladstone's 
grand party ! I felt as if I had been taken at a mean 
advantage. I felt certain I would never have the 
courage to keep that vow. And I really can't conceive 



134 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

how I managed to do so. As I dressed for the great 
occasion I fervently hoped that no one would look at 
me, though, as I was to accompany my cousin, I didn't 
see how it was possible to escape observation altogether. 
I thought to myself 

"With this sleek front hair I look exactly like a 
low-spirited seal, and that is about the long and short of 
it. What is the use of trying to imagine that I look nice 
when I just simply know that I don't." 

The knowledge that I was trying to behave what the 
boys would have called "jolly decently " kept me up to 
some slight degree once I had torn myself away from the 
looking-glass, which, in the most maddening and anti- 
pathetic way, refused to tamper with the truth, and told 
no friendly and comforting falsehoods. I finally drove 
away with only one faint hope, and to that I clung frantic- 
allyI hoped that I had succeeded in arranging my back 
hair so becomingly that no one would notice the dull and 
prosy effect of the front ! It makes me laugh now to 
remember the agonies I went through that evening at my 
toilet-table. I only wish I had known then what I know 
now, i.e. that one hardly exists for people in London unless 
one happens to belong to their particular set, or unless one 
is a well-known person of some sort. By a merciful dis- 
pensation of Providence, neither of these conditions applied 
to me on the evening of my debut in the great world of 
London. 

I have only the vaguest recollection of the party that 
was the occasion of so severe a struggle with my conscience. 
I believe that Mrs. Gladstone kindly presented me to the 
Princess, but on that subject I feel rather like the little 
boy who was prepared to take his oath but hesitated to 
bet sixpence ! But on one fact I can stake every sixpence 
I am ever likely to possess. After my cousin had finished 
singing my first song, she was at once surrounded and made 
much of. This was only natural, as she was already a 
well-known and very popular young artist. I was perfectly 
unknown, and, as a matter of fact, had not a single ac- 
quaintance among the guests. So I remained standing 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 135 

by the music stool from which I had just risen, feeling 
rather forlorn in spite of the brilliant crowd scattered over 
the room. All of a sudden my heart went pit-a-pat. Mr. 
Gladstone was making his way to the piano where I stood 
quite alone, and was coming to speak to me. And then I 
suddenly felt that I didn't care a brass button if every man 
or woman in the room ignored me so long as the " Grand 
Old Man " didn't think me beneath his notice. He said 
a few kind words in the beautifully modulated voice which 
so many of us can still remember, and asked me some 
questions with the simple and charming courtesy which 
so often fascinated even those who hated him politically. 
I thought him a perfect darling ! I knew nothing about 
politics. I only knew that one of the people I loved best 
in the world admired him very much and would be pleased 
that he had been kind to me. 

From that time forth I was an enthusiastic Liberal, 
firmly convinced that if one thing was more certain than 
another, it was the fact that Mr. Disraeli was not fit to 
black the boots of the parish in which Mr. Gladstone 
lived 1 



CHAPTER X. 

THAT same winter (1876) I heard that there was to be 
a competition for a pianoforte scholarship at the Royal 
Academy of Music, which then was situated at No. 4 
Tenterden Street, Hanover Square. Any girl under twenty- 
one was free to send in her name as competitor. Mr. May 
was my informant on this subject, in fact, it was he who 
kept me posted up in most musical matters. He had been 
a student at the R.A.M. in his youth, and later on, when 
Sterndale Bennett was Principal, he was on the staff of 
professors. He always spoke of Bennett with real liking 
and regard. 

I was one of the many young girls who entered the 
lists. I played Sterndale Bennett's " Allegro giojoso " on 
this occasion, but the scholarship was won by Miss Ethel 
Goold who was a far better pianist than myself. I was 
very much disappointed, as I had secretly hoped to win 
it, but to my surprise and pleasure I received a letter two 
or three days after the competition from the Secretary of 
the Academy, to say that the Directors had desired him 
to write and tell me that, in consideration of the way I 
had played, I was at liberty to become a student without 
paying the preliminary entrance fee. This was balm in 
Gilead, but owing to some quite private reason I did not 
take advantage of this very kind offer, and continued my 
studies at home with Mr. May. 

I worked hard all the spring and summer at our house 
in Hyde Park Gate, and was delighted to think that we were 
to remain a winter in London. But towards the end 
of the autumn I began to feel very restless. I loved my 
lessons with Mr. May, but at the same time I felt a great 
longing to come quite definitely out of my amateur shell. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 137 

Mr. May, like Mr. Rockstro, often spoke to me of his young 
days and of his happy student life at the Royal Academy, 
and it was during those conversations that I realised what 
far greater opportunities I would have for developing 
any talent I possessed if I also went to some such public 
School of Music. 

At the Royal Academy there was an orchestra com- 
posed of professors and students, and a choir composed 
of students alone ; important orchestral and choral works 
were constantly being performed there, and, as a student, 
I would have the right to attend these rehearsals whenever 
I pleased. I would also have the chance of playing with 
the orchestra. This was a tremendous inducement, but 
when I heard that those who made composition their 
principal study were able to have their scores rehearsed, 
and sometimes actually performed at the Student's 
Orchestral Concerts at St. James's Hall, I hesitated no 
longer. I felt very strongly that the time had come to 
desert the great army of amateurs. The only thing I 
really hated was having to tell dear Mr. May the decision 
I had arrived at. I was afraid of hurting his feelings. 
How little did I know him ! When at last I screwed up 
my courage and told him, he was so kind, so understanding, 
that I began to cry, and it was he who was cheering me up 
at the end of the interview. I made him promise not to 
go out of my life, and asked him if he would mind giving 
me lessons now and again if ever I wanted extra help. 
He said 

44 Of course I will. You really mustn't distress your- 
self like this. Why, you never did a wiser thing in your 
life ! " 

But it was a long time before I felt that I had been 
anything but a monster of ingratitude. 

My mother also had to be consulted ; her prejudice 
against even the shadow of public life would have to be 
overcome, and I knew that this would be no easy task, 
but, fortunately, the Zeitgeist was on my side, and even 
a Napoleon would find it difficult to make much headway 
against so subtle an enemy. Of course the usual " sincere 



138 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

friend " appeared on the scene, warning her of the 
appalling dangers to which I would be exposed if allowed 
to associate with the students of the R.A.M. Those 
dangers were indeed enough to make one's flesh creep ! 
She said I might be obliged to associate with the children 
of tradespeople ! I am thankful to say my mother 
refused to be properly impressed. She might be old- 
fashioned, but anyone less of a snob never existed. This 
" sincere friend " also feared that it might lead to my 
introducing young men with long hair and doubtful nails 
into the bosom of my family. (As a matter of fact, the 
only young man I ever made friends with was the late 
Arthur Goring Thomas, and he was quite exceptionally 
attractive and agreeable ; he was really gifted, and had 
he not died at so early an age would, I am sure, have 
done great things.) If I didn't drop my aitches, and if 
all my friends didn't drop me by the time I left, it 
would be little short of a miracle, etc. etc. She would 
have been very much surprised had she known one 
tradesman's daughter with whom I made friends. She 
was one of the most charming and charming-looking 
girls I ever had the pleasure of meeting. I once asked 
her to come to the opera with me. I remember the 
occasion quite well. Lady Ripon then Lady de Grey 
had very kindly lent me her box one night, and I invited 
this young girl to come with some other friends. I shall 
never forget her telling me that her father kept a chemist's 
shop, after which she said quite simply 

" I thought perhaps you didn't know when you asked 
me. Perhaps Lady de Grey mightn't like me to come." 

I certainly didn't know it at the time, but as Lady 
de Grey had not thought me too much beneath her to 
lend me her box, I thought I would certainly be a rank 
snob myself if I didn't follow her lead, especially as I was 
" nicht einmal geboren " myself ! (" not even born ") 
as they say in Germany when one happens to be just 
one of the crowd, without any handle to one's name. 
What a comical expression that is ! Really, when one 
has taken the trouble to come into the world with a con- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 139 

siderable amount of inconvenience not only to one's dear 
mother but also to one's precious self (nobody having 
taken the slightest trouble to find out whether it suited one 
or not) when one has consented to live on an absurd and 
monotonous milk-diet for at least twelve months, as if 
one were raging with fever, when anyone can see with 
half an eye that during the process of feeding, at all 
events, one is as calm as a Hindoo idol when, finally, 
one has shown the greatest magnanimity (compulsory, 
I admit) to one's nurse and her soldier by never addressing 
a single word of reproach to them when they repeatedly 
tore one's character to shreds during the dull and un- 
comfortable drive in the degrading " pram " in which 
one has been wheeled along as though one were so much 
refuse on one's way to the dustheap, I say that when 
one's sense of dignity and justice has been outraged to 
such a degree for the first two years of one's existence, 
it is rather too much of a good thing to tell one, when one 
reaches years of discretion, that one isn't even " born " ! 
I wonder that any self-respecting infant consents to 
come to life in Germany without making special arrange- 
ments with the editors of the Almanack de Gotha. 

I became a student at the Royal Academy of Music 
in the autumn of 1876, unless my memory is very much 
at fault. I accomplished this feat though I was not 
" born," and no one showed the slightest sign of astonish- 
ment at this remarkable achievement. Nature went on 
her way as usual, and I was inscribed on the list of students 
without even a comet making its appearance ! Sir 
George Macfarren, the Principal, took me into his class 
for harmony and composition; Mr. Westlake gave me 
pianoforte lessons; and for a very short time I studied 
the violin with Mr. Ralph, but I was obliged to give up 
all idea of ever playing that instrument, as owing to the 
severe muscular pains I always suffered from, I found 
it impossible to hold it properly for more than five minutes 
at a time. I also attended the sight-singing classes which 
were held by Mr. Eyres. I dreaded those classes. It 
really is rather alarming to be suddenly picked out from 



140 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

thirty or forty girls, and to be what the Germans call 
" fixiert " by a professional eye, while a professorial 
voice proclaims (without a shade of justification) 

" And now Miss Maude White will kindly give us 
the leading note in the scale of E sharp, after which she 
will sing the minor third above it." 

Alas, neither kindly nor unkindly did I ever give poor 
Mr. Eyers anything he asked for. Never did I take a 
note within even measurable distance of the one I was 
so politely requested to produce with my raucous bass 
voice. I could easily go down to the low E flat, but to 
come up to the scratch at the critical moment was alto- 
gether beyond me, and at last my repeated failures caused 
the eyes of Mr. Eyres to grow perfectly round with sur- 
prise ; indeed, on some occasions they looked like out- 
raged saucers ! 

The fact is I have an atrociously bad ear. I can 
hear a piece of music three or four times without recognis- 
ing it, and, as a young girl, sang quite cheerfully out of 
tune without the slightest idea I was doing so. I was 
rather like the lady whose husband said to her 

" My dear, how charmingly you would sing if you 
stuck to the key. But since you persist in warbling in a 
bunch of keys, don't you think it might be wiser to give 
it up altogether ? " 

My principal study, of course, was composition, and 
during the three or four years that I was in his class, 
I had many an opportunity of admiring the extraordinary 
patience and cheerfulness of dear old Sir George Mac- 
farren. I don't think he had received his knighthood 
when I first became his pupil, but at all events that is 
the name by which we all remember him now. He was 
stone blind, as everyone knows, and well do I remember 
the wave of compassion that used to rush over me when 
he was led into the classroom by Mr. Eyres or Mr. Gill, 
who then was Secretary to the R.A.M. He was kind- 
ness itself to all of us. I am afraid I was rather an un- 
ruly pupil, for I would persist in writing songs long before 
I had finished the exercises in the dear old man's treatise 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 141 

on Harmony, which was a far more elaborate affair than 
the book in which I had studied with Mr. Rockstro. He 
used to sit by the piano, alert and attentive, and it was 
almost impossible to believe he was blind, so extra- 
ordinarily accurately did he follow the manuscripts we 
played to him. In fact, his terrible infliction, which he 
bore so bravely, didn't interfere in the least with his 
work. At least, it only interfered in one way he was, 
of course, not able to judge how we had actually written 
down our compositions. We naturally played them as we 
had conceived them, and though he continually asked 
us whether we had slurred legato passages, and put 
dots on staccato ones, etc., still it was impossible for a 
blind person to know whether his instructions had been 
carried out carefully or not, either by us or by the 
secretary he employed at home to look over them again. 

I believe this accounts for my own compositions 
being so defective in this respect. I didn't want to 
worry Sir George at every moment over what I then 
thought was an insignificant detail, but as I didn't feel 
quite sure how I ought to mark what I wrote, I just 
didn't mark anything at all ! 

Singers and accompanists have constantly said to me 

" I can't quite make out how you wish this passage 
phrased. You have indicated nothing in the way of 
phrasing or expression." 

Though I very much regret my carelessness in this 
respect (for I certainly ought to have taken the trouble 
to learn what is after all a perfectly simple thing), still 
there is one thing I do not regret, and that is the fact 
that the dear old blind man wished to have me in his class. 
He taught splendidly, but oh, what a mystery it is to me 
how any gifted human being can have the patience to 
go on teaching for hours on end, when some of his pupils 
are certainly anything but stimulating. " Old Mac," 
as we affectionately called him behind his back, took us 
all perfectly seriously. I never remember his powers of 
endurance collapsing to any appreciable extent except 
on one memorable occasion, when a pupil brought him a 



142 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

really horrible little ballad she had composed. I can 
see him now, frowning and fidgeting on his chair. He 
always sat bolt upright with his hands on his knees. 
After she had finished singing the first verse he said 

" I can't make head or tail of it ; perhaps you had better 
read me the words first." 

And she did so. Poor thing they were dreadful ! 
Absolute doggerel ! 

Then he said dryly 

" Let's get on to the music, please." 

Alas ! The music was worse than the words. It 
was all over the place. From an artistic point of view 
it was what I once heard described as " un desastro " 
by an Italian friend of my acquaintance ! 

" Look here," said Old Mac rather irritably, " get 
back to the place where your gentleman dies at the stile 
on G flat, and lets see what we can do with him." 

The poor lady protested. In a flurried, nervous way 
she suggested that the professor had slightly misunder- 
stood the drift of the words . . . perhaps she had better 
sing the whole thing over again ? . . . etc. etc. I can't 
say that I have actually seen anyone jump out of his 
skin, but Old Mac at this prospect looked as if, for him at 
all events, the feat was quite within the bounds of possi- 
bility ! His face naturally a long one fell as suddenly 
as a barometer in April, he looked almost dangerous, 
and the next moment he and his pupil were in a state 
that can only be described as " hairy-teary " ! I can't 
remember whether the hero of that song did actually 
expire at the stile on G flat, or whether he pulled some- 
body's nose at the stile on A natural, or whether he cut 
his fiance" e's throat at the stile on an arpeggio, but what- 
ever he did at that unfortunate stile, and on whatever 
note (or notes) he did it, it was something so outrageous 
and unpardonable that it brought the lesson to an un- 
timely end. And the only wonder is that dear Old Mac 
didn't cut the composer's throat on two big, big Ds one 
of them very natural indeed, and the other double sharp ! 

He once lost his temper with me, but I must say it 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 143 

was only for a few seconds. He thought it was a pity 
that I devoted myself so exclusively to vocal 
music, and advised me to try my hand at something 
instrumental. Unfortunately he suggested a concerto. 
I was in despair. I told him I was positively certain 
I was incapable of such a thing, but he insisted on it, and I 
went home to do my worst ! He had been so kind 
and encouraging over all the songs I had written during 
the term, that it was gall and wormwood to me to think 
of bringing him something that he would cut up un- 
mercifully. And, of course, that is just what happened 
at my next lesson. He listened for a minute or so in 
grim silence. 

" Do you call that music ? " he growled at last. 

I said I most emphatically did not, and so heartily, 
so thankfully, did I agree with him that my dreary 
manuscript was only fit for the waste -paper basket, 
that there was nothing more to be said on the subject. 

Once we had a tremendous discussion. He wished 
me to change something in a song I had brought him, 
but I clung desperately to what I had written. I said 
that whether it was right or wrong I loved it like that, 
and that I had meant just that and nothing, nothing else. 
What was my surprise when suddenly the dear old fellow 
laughed outright. 

" Keep it," he said ; " I love your obstinacy." 

I could have hugged him. 

I was allowed to publish some of the songs I wrote 
during my first two or three terms. Several of them were 
afterwards included in a " German Album," published by 
Messrs. Stanley Lucas, Weber, & Co., and became quite 
popular ; among them were " A Youth once loved a 
Maiden " and " The Sea hath its Pearls." Of course I 
wrote the music to the original German poems by Heine, 
though I afterwards translated them very feebly, I am 
afraid into English ; but no translation that I could 
get hold of fitted my music, which accounts for my dashing 
into literature (Save the mark !). 

We used to have informal little concerts every two 



144 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

weeks, at which the students were among other things 
allowed to perform each other's compositions. Most of 
the professors used to attend these " Fortnightly Meetings," 
as they were called, and in this way they were able to 
see how we were all getting on. I once wrote a most 
sentimental little ballad that was performed at one of 
these Fortnightlies. It was called " Loving and True." 
Needless to say the words were utter trash, for I had 
written them myself after reading a novel that had 
harrowed my feelings to a considerable extent. I thought 
they were very beautiful and pathetic. Alas, I had not 
yet heard that there was such a word as " bathos " in 
the dictionary ! " Loving and True " lives in my memory 
chiefly in connection with an amusing mistake that 
occurred in the first proofs I received. Two of the lines 

ran thus 

" I've never once forgotten 
The vow I made that day." 

My feelings can be imagined when I found that they 
had printed them 

" I've never once forgotten, 
The Row I made that day." 

Considering that in my heart-rending poem a lady, 
whose disposition is extremely loving (who has, in fact, 
been engaged from birth in the " little clinging ivy " 
business), is parting with an equally loving and devoted 
swain, the mistake was indeed a cruel one. This new 
version suggested rather too painfully that the fidelity 
of the gentleman had only been secured by violent threats 
on the lady's part, not altogether unconnected with an 
unsavoury little process known as " breach of promise." 

As in duty bound I had shown the song to the Principal. 
I felt as though I were laying bare the innermost recesses 
of my soul as I sang the words, into which, by the way, 
I put as little expression as possible, " pour me donner 
une contenance," but either he was too busy listening 
to the music or he was too kind to chaff me about them. 
In spite of the dreadful sentimentality of the words 
perhaps for that very reason the song had an unqualified 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 145 

success. It was loudly encored, and both the singer and 
I stepped off the platform highly pleased with each other. 
I had never written anything the least like it. It belonged 
to the same category of songs as Sir Arthur Sullivan's 
44 Let me dream again " and 44 Once Again " two songs 
which one never hears now, but which had an immense 
vogue at the time they were written. Madame Christine 
Nilsson introduced the first of these ballads to the public. 
Her English was not always beyond criticism, and when 
she sang the words of the refrain 

" Oh, do not wake me, 
Waking would be pain." 

she sang something which sounded dangerously like 

" Oh, do not whack me, 
Whacking would be pain." 

Mr. Edward Lloyd, I believe, brought out 44 Once 
Again," which had an extraordinary and instantaneous 
success. But it received its death-blow at the hands of 
Punch, who caricatured it so unmercifully and so amusingly 
that it sent the whole of England into a roar of laughter 
one Wednesday morning. The picture, as far as I re- 
member, represented a long street in which a shabby- 
looking individual was singing the celebrated ballad. 
Underneath were written the words of the refrain 
" Meet me once again." 

The roofs of the houses were covered with cats, who, 
at the first sound of the dear, familiar word 44 Meet," had 
rushed out to secure a meal. 

At my next lesson Sir George congratulated me on 
the success of my song, and told me I might take it round 
to Mr. Stanley Lucas to see if he would publish it. 

Mr. Stanley Lucas's father had at one time been 
President of the R.A.M., so he himself was on the friendliest 
terms with everyone connected with that Institution. I 
had a very hearty liking for Mr. Lucas. I don't think 
he was a good business man in fact, I know he was 
not, but not being a shining light in that direction myself, 
this did not impress me in the least. He took my first 

10 



146 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

compositions when I was only too thankful to have them 
accepted, and I am quite certain he can't have made 
more than sixpence out of them. When my trustee 
suggested after a while that he should make a regular 
business contract with me, he was perfectly willing to 
do so, and we were the very best of friends to the day 
of his death. He was one of the kindest-hearted men 
that ever breathed. Many is the laugh I have had with 
him in Bond Street, where he sat from morning till night 
in the little office at the end of his long and narrow shop 
which has, alas, disappeared for ever, like St. James's 
Hall and so many other dear, familiar haunts. I can 
see him now standing in the middle of that shop and 
brandishing the MS. of " Loving and True " in my face. 

44 1 say," he exclaimed, " what an awful title you 
have got hold of. c Loving and True ! ' That will never 
do." 

No one knew that I was the author of the words and 
was responsible for the title. I had taken good care to 
keep that to myself. 

" It has got to do," I said firmly. " That's the name 
of the song." 

" Call it something else," he urged. " You can easily 
find another name for it. ' Loving and True ! ' Good 
heavens ! " 

And he began to argue with me in real earnest. He 
said we would both be the laughing-stock of the town 
if we brought out a song with so sentimental a title. 

"/ NEVER DID," he kept on saying. "I say, Miss 
White, really, it's beyond everything ! You MUST see 
that for yourself." 

I squirmed, but I wouldn't give in. I had almost 
shed tears over the composition of that sugary little 
poem, and it wasn't the " likes " of Mr. Lucas who was 
going to make me rechristen my beloved and only 
literary child. 

44 Look here," he said, 44 be a good girl, and think it 
over. 4 Loving and true,' he murmured again," " Oh, 
it's perfectly impossible." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 147 

I could have smacked him. 

" Well," he said at last despondently and resignedly, 
" I suppose you must have your own way, but " 

He was turning over the pages of the song as he 
spoke, and a horrid suspicion crossed my mind that 
he might begin to declaim my poor, wretched, little verses 
in front of the salesmen who stood behind the counter 
grinning like Cheshire cats. And without another word 
I bolted ! 

Dear old Stanley Lucas ! He did more than face 
the music ! On this occasion he faced that title-page ! 
And, thank goodness, the song had quite a little success, 
and sold fairly well for a time. 

Another song I wrote during my first or second year 
at the Academy was Victor Hugo's " Espoir en Dieu." 
This I orchestrated, and, while it was still in manuscript, 
it was sung by a charming contralto Miss Orridge 
at one of our orchestral concerts at St. James's Hall. I 
recollect an amusing incident that occurred in connection 
with that song, which is dedicated to Miss Mary Wakefield. 
She was, as I have said in a former chapter, an admirable 
musician, and it was a delight to try over a new com- 
position with her, as she read music extremely well and 
with real insight. She generally spent the season in 
London with the rest of her family, and when they 
didn't go to Brown's Hotel in Dover Street, they took 
a house in the neighbourhood of Wimpole Street or 
Portland Place. I had a general invitation to go there 
whenever I liked, and as I was extremely fond of the 
whole family I continually took advantage of it, though, 
of course, it was Mary who was my special friend. We 
had a number of things in common and got on splendidly. 
One day I thought I would go and lunch there on leaving 
the Academy. When I was shown into the dining-room 
I found that luncheon was finished, and the room empty 
except for Mary and a very nice-looking, middle-aged 
man to whom she introduced me, but whose name I 
didn't catch. She explained that I was studying com- 
position at the R.A.M. and said a few kind words about 



148 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

the things I had already written, but she evidently 
didn't think it in the least necessary to explain him to me. 

" Well, Maude," she said cheerily, " what are you 
working at now ? " 

I said I was orchestrating the song I had just dedi- 
cated to her, and said something enthusiastic about 
the poem and something still more enthusiastic about 
Victor Hugo. 

" Oh," said the nice-looking man, " are you a great 
admirer of his ? " 

The words were innocent enough, goodness knows, 
but I thought they were said in a very superior way, 
and felt, and I am afraid looked, slightly hostile. 

" / should rather think I am," I answered. " So 
is everyone who knows anything about poetry, I should 
imagine." 

" Well," he said, in a very agreeable voice, and not 
in the least disturbed by my rather aggressive tone, " I 
think he is a good deal over-estimated as a poet, and I 
cannot share your admiration." 

" Do you know ' Espoir en Dieu ? ' ' I said icily. (I 
longed to crush him.) 

" I can't say I do," he answered, smiling agreeably, 
and evidently quite unaware that I had summed him 
up in my youthful mind as a person who didn't know 
what he was talking about. " But isn't Victor Hugo's 
poetry just a trifle well, is it is it quite first-rate ? 
Isn't it . . . ? " And then he proceeded to dissect him. 

I was absolutely indignant, and poured a red-hot 
flood of protest over him, which apparently didn't even 
singe a hair of his whiskers. As a matter of fact I had 
only read a few of Victor Hugo's detached poems 
none of his plays and was quite incapable of discussing 
the subject from a really literary point of view. But I 
thought then that I was a very good, not to say a 
brilliant, judge of French literature, and at that moment 
I was positively certain I knew a great deal more than 
this creature who was laying down the law as if he were 
Poet Laureate to the great Panjandrum. It suddenly 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 149 

struck me that Mary Wakefield was keeping very quiet ; 
once or twice she looked quite uncomfortable I couldn't 
make it out. 

" I suppose like all Englishmen," I said as sarcastically 
as possible, " you hate everything French and foreign, 
no matter how good it is." 

" Oh no," he said, smiling indulgently, " not at all 
not at all." 

This certainly ought to have soothed my savage 
breast, but it didn't. I felt as I imagine a baby might 
feel to whom Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup is being 
administered against its will, and I suddenly determined 
to " let him have it." 

" It wouldn't surprise me in the least," I said, with a 
withering glance (which he didn't seem to resent in the 
slightest degree either), " to hear you had never read one 
single word he ever wrote." 

When he received this staggering blow from the 
shoulder he didn't smile in a superior way. An expression 
of such kindly humour came into his face that I was 
quite taken aback. He looked so attractive that I had 
a sudden revulsion of feeling. It was a regular volte 
face on my part. I forget what he actually said in 
answer to my accusation ; I only remember that it 
seemed to amuse him a good deal, and that Mary Wake- 
field looked absolutely horrified. When we parted a 
few minutes later we shook hands quite warmly, and 
were on the friendliest terms. Mary went to see him 
off, and I remained in the dining-room to " get outside " 
an uncommonly good luncheon that the servant had 
just brought in. She returned after a few minutes' talk 
with her guest. She still looked scandalised, but far 
less anxious. He had evidently convinced her that he 
bore me no malice. 

It was Matthew Arnold whom she had just escorted 
to the front door ! 



CHAPTER XL 

ONE day I received a letter addressed in a handwriting 
unknown to me. It was from some one at Mitchell's 
Box Office in Bond Street. The writer said he had been 
asked by Lady Sophia Macnamara to find out the name 
of the " young lady " who had accompanied Miss Sophie 
Robertson some months ago at an evening party at Mrs. 
Gladstone's my name had been given to him and he 
wished to know if he had been correctly informed. I was 
very much surprised. Why on earth did this lady want 
to know my name ? I wrote, however, to say that I 
was the person in question, and thought no more about 
it. What was my surprise when, a day or two later, I 
received a letter from Lady Sophia herself, telling me 
that she had been desired by H.R.H. Princess Louise to 
invite me to an evening party at Kensington Palace 
that was to take place in a few days. 

I hardly knew which feeling predominated pleasure 
or alarm ! But what young girl would not have been 
flattered and delighted at being remembered by so exalted 
a personage after so long a time had elapsed ? At the 
same time I was rather frightened at the idea of going 
alone to a party of that sort. I had seen for myself 
at Mrs. Gladstone's reception that certain formalities 
were observed when a member of the Royal Family was 
present, and I felt dreadfully shy at the idea of a royal 
lady being my hostess. Some one probably one of my 
cousins told me that I would have to curtsey and to 
say " ma'am " (at the same time I realised I needn't 
trouble to drop my aitches like those people who curtseyed 
and said " ma'am " to me). 

If I had known how charming the Princess was, and 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 151 

how immediately she was going to set me at my ease by 
the kind way she received me, presenting me to her 
husband the Marquis of Lome as he was called then 
and several other of her guests, I would not have felt 
anything like as timid. 

Our small household was quite excited at the unusual 
prospect that lay before me. The question arose, " How 
was I to go ? " As I had been invited alone, my mother 
decided that the best thing to do would be to send me 
in a brougham attended by Cobbett, our butler, who for 
the occasion was to play the role of footman and sit on 
the box, etc. etc. But the transformation of Cobbett 
from a butler into a footman was a far more serious affair 
than the transformation of Cinderella into a princess, 
and thereby hangs a tale ! 

Never shall I forget, when it was all over, how we 
screamed with laughter at the recollection of the vehement, 
the passionate, protestations of this usually mild function- 
ary when he was given to understand that on one con- 
dition alone would he be allowed to escort me to Ken- 
sington Palace. To be frank, there were certain details 
connected with his personal appearance that were in 
startling contradiction to what is generally known as 
" The Proper Thing." Connoisseurs of that subtle 
art " What's What " would certainly have fallen foul 
of " Our Mr. Cobbett." Now, whatever that mystic 
" What " may be, Cobbett at all events had made up his 
mind to treat it as a negligible quantity. He said he was 
a relation of the great William Cobbett. This may or 
may not have been true. I certainly will not take it 
upon myself to say who or what Cobbett was, for it is 
my firm belief that his origin, like that of the unicorn, 
was shrouded in mystery. But he certainly might have 
been an incarnation of the United States of America by 
the desperate way he fought for his independence, and 
though the results of the struggle were not equally suc- 
cessful, still they were on the same heroic scale. 

But the time has come when I must speak plainly, 
even at the risk of my whole family losing caste for ever. 



152 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Well, then, Cobbett, our butler Cobbett, who opened the 
front door, and stood behind my mother's chair at dinner 
Cobbett, who certainly ought to have known better, 
who, as a matter of fact, did know better Cobbett wore 
an enormous military moustache, and neither mother nor 
Auntie Dora had ever insisted on its removal. They 
hadn't dared ! 

But there were extenuating circumstances. I feel 
that I must hold a brief for my mother and aunt, lest we 
all be suspected of hailing from the purlieus of Peckham, 
where I have heard that strange liberties are taken with 
" the proper thing " as understood in Grosvenor Square. 

Well, then, Cobbett was married to Sarah, who for 
years and years had combined the duties of parlour-maid 
with those of attendant on my dear mother who was a 
great sufferer. Mother and Sarah could simply not be 
imagined apart. We talked of them as other people 
talk of " body and soul " or " pepper and salt " the one 
instinctively suggesting the other ! 

Cobbett first knew Sarah in Torquay where he was 
footman in the service of a family who had taken apart- 
ments in the same house as ourselves, and propinquity 
had gone busily about its business as usual. They met 
they walked out on Sunday and let us hope they loved, 
for they certainly exchanged vows, and, for aught I know, 
exchanged hats, which in certain circles is, I believe, 
a sure sign that Cupid is hovering about the neighbour- 
hood. When everything was satisfactorily arranged 
between them, Sarah hypnotised my mother into engag- 
ing Cobbett as our butler. According to her, no butler 
that had ever buttled was fit to be compared to him. 
Mother, of course, did as she was told, and Cobbett was 
taken on. 

And then Cobbett did a mean thing ! Instead of 
growing mustard and cress in the cellar, he started grow- 
ing a moustache in his bedroom. None of us noticed 
what was happening, till, lo and behold, THERE IT 
WAS bright red into the bargain ! 

What was to be done ? 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 153 

It really was like the house that Jack built. Mother 
took on Cobbett, and Cobbett took on a moustachio, 
and both the Cobbett s " took on somethin' crool " at the 
bare idea of shaving it off. The situation was really 
fraught with peril ! What if Cobbett (the only man in 
the house, after all) should suddenly assert himself ? 
What if he suddenly braced up his loins and gave warn- 
ing ? If, instead of taking off his moustache, he should 
take off the indispensable Sarah ? 

That was the real rock ahead. That was the secret 
of mother's lamentable want of spirit. Auntie Dora's 
attitude (she was a peaceful soul) was : " My dear, far 
better leave the man alone, his moustachio can't do Us 
any harm." As far as I was concerned I didn't care two 
straws if Cobbett chose to grow a pea-green moustache 
beneath his turned-up little nose (as well as under ours), 
so long as he didn't ask me to follow his example. The 
conventions didn't trouble me in those days. (I can 
hear certain intimate friends murmuring, " Much they 
trouble you now.") And the whole affair blew over. 

The lionesses (mother, Auntie Dora, Emmie, and 
myself) lay down with the lamb, and the lamb once more 
lay down in perfect security with his moustache and 
his Sarah, when he retired to rest after the toil of the 
day. 

But all unknown to us the apple of discord was growing 
on a far-away tree in South America, and was to be 
plucked ere many weeks were over, and, what is more, 
it was to be stored away safely in one of the many trunks 
of my sister Annie, now Mrs. John Compton, who, with 
her two little boys, was coming to England to pay us a 
visit. 

And as she unpacked her trunks at Hyde Park Gate, 
out rolled the fatal pippin, and Cobbett's moustache 
again became the sole topic of conversation. Annie was 
frankly indignant. 

;t You oughtn't to stand it for a moment longer," she 
said to mother. "It is a piece of rank impertinence on 
his part. Sarah knows perfectly well, and so does he, 



154 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

that it's all wrong. They are both taking advantage of 
your kindness, and you ought to IN-SIST on his shaving 
off that absurd moustache this very day ! No, mamma, 
I am not mistaken, I am perfectly right. Sarah may 
be a perfect angel, but Cobbett is a devil and a hypocrite 
if he dares to pretend that he doesn't know that butlers 
do NOT wear moustachios." Etc. etc. 

And then came the famous invitation to Kensington 
Palace. 

At this crisis Annie took matters into her own hands. 

" If Cobbett is really to take Maudie to this party," 
she said firmly, " he CANNOT do so without shaving off 
his moustache. Believe me, mamma, I know what I am 
talking about and so do you. Don't tell me he isn't 
dying to go, if it's only just to show off to the other 
servants when he gets back. Conceited little wretch ! 
Now is the moment now or never." 

She was quite right. Cobbett was secretly devoured 
by ambition. He longed to know what it would be like 
to go and stand outside Kensington Palace, to converse 
on equal terms with gentlemen who powdered their hair, 
and wore beautiful white silk stockings and plush knee- 
breeches. It was a unique opportunity; he must think 
twice before he tossed it aside. " South America " had 
thrown out dark hints as to what would eventually 
happen unless he consented to change his tactics ! 

And before the day was out " South America " was 
complete mistress of the situation ! 

On the morning of her famous victory, Annie said 
cryptically 

" Just you leave Cobbett to me ! " 

If she didn't bribe him with the promise of a brand- 
new overcoat ! It was to be le dernier cri in livery, 
and, buttoned up inside it, she assured him that he 
would be able to " hold his own " with all the other 
" gentlemen's gentlemen " with whom he would be called 
upon to mingle in exalted spheres hitherto unknown to 
him. 

Annie had gauged her man rightly. Cobbett was 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 155 

dazzled. The head of Cobbett reeled at the idea of all 
he might miss if he obstinately persisted in retaining 
the offensive appendage, to which, in his heart of hearts, 
he knew he had no right. That evening he shaved off 
his moustache the next day he went to be measured 
for the coat, and, a week later, attended by a perfectly 
correct footman, I drove in solitary state to my party. 

And instead of being frightened to death I enjoyed 
myself very much indeed ! After presenting me to Lord 
Lome and several other people, the kind Princess finally 
put me under the wing of Lady Herbert of Lea, who 
was there that evening with her beautiful daughter, Lady 
Gladys Herbert now the Marchioness of Ripon ; her 
eldest daughter, Lady Mary von Hiigel, who for many 
a long year has been one of my most faithful friends, 
was not there that night, but her mother looked after 
me as kindly as she herself has done on many an occasion 
when her house in London has been my pied a terre for 
weeks at a time. Miss Violet Lindsay was also there 
with her father. She is the Duchess of Rutland now. 
Then she was a slim young girl, and well do I remember 
how frail and lovely she looked in a filmy white dress 
with a broad blue sash round her waist. Lady Herbert 
told me who everyone was, which, of course, made the 
evening far more interesting to me than it would other- 
wise have been. While we sat talking, there was a sudden 
stir in the room ; some one unusually interesting had 
evidently arrived. We looked in the same direction as 
everyone else, and saw that a graceful, most lovely woman 
of about twenty-two was making a very low curtsey to 
the Princess. It was the most enchanting curtsey I 
ever saw in all my life. It was more like a flower swaying 
for a moment in a gentle breeze than anything else. 
Madame Pavlova herself would have found it difficult to 
surpass the consummate grace with which it was accom- 
plished. As she rose leisurely, and stood beside the 
Princess, slim, erect, and absolutely radiant with youth 
and beauty, one really no longer wondered at the extra- 
ordinary way her name had spread all over the English- 



156 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

speaking world. For it was Mrs. Langtry who had 
caused that sudden stir in the room the celebrated Mrs. 
Langtry who inaugurated the era of the professional 
beauty, whose photographs filled the shop windows 
and sold by the thousand, whose hats and dresses were 
copied by every woman in the kingdom in the vain hope 
of achieving some fleeting resemblance to the famous 
beauty the celebrated Mrs. Langtry who dressed her 
beautiful hair so simply that simplicity became the 
fashion, and coiffeurs were reduced to despair and wept 
like children at the cruel way they were neglected ! 

She made a sensation wherever she went, and people 
actually stood on their chairs in Hyde Park to catch a 
glimpse of her as she walked or drove past. Her eyes 
were glorious, and shone like two splendid blue stars. 
It really was not surprising that people went down before 
her like corn before the sickle. 

I was not introduced to her that night, but I met her 
some time afterwards at a delightful party given by Sir 
Johnston Forbes Robertson at his studio in the house in 
Bedford Square, where he still lives with his beautiful 
wife and children. I saw those little children for a 
minute or two a short time ago. Their father was stand- 
ing with me at the front door of his own house, wishing 
me good-bye, as they returned from their morning walk 
with their nurse. He has had a successful and brilliant 
career, as we all know, but I expect he will agree with me 
that those three little children are worth a good deal 
more than all the applause the world has ever given him. 
Their innocent loveliness made such an impression on 
me that I shall remember it as long as I live. They 
reminded me of Longfellow's lines 

" Ye are better than all the ballads 
That ever were sung or said, 
For ye are living poems 
And all the rest are dead." 

It was at this same party at Kensington Palace that I 
first had the pleasure of hearing Herr Georg Henschel. 
I was told that he had only just come over to England, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 157 

and that some German Royalty had given him an intro- 
duction to Princess Louise, who, as everyone knows, is 
devoted to Art in every shape and form, and is herself 
not only a painter but a sculptress into the bargain. 
I think it was Herr HenschePs first appearance at a big 
private party in London, and he was so young that I can 
well believe it. We were all young then, for this party took 
place a very long time ago nevertheless, I remember how 
beautifully he sang, and how beautifully he accompanied 
himself in several interesting songs of his own composition. 

Lady Herbert said to me that evening 

" I must introduce my son-in-law to you some day. 
He is a composer, you know." 

But I didn't know ! And then she explained that 
his name was Hubert Parry, and that he had married her 
daughter, Lady Maud Herbert. But, as a matter of fact, 
it was Sir Charles Santley who introduced him to me 
some years later at the Gloucester Festival. In his 
youth, Hubert Parry was one of the handsomest and most 
attractive men I have ever seen, with a " way wid' him," 
as they say in Ireland, that " knocked everyone sideways," 
to quote the favourite phrase of his son-in-law, Mr. 
Plunket Greene ! I fell a victim like everyone else, and 
a few years later my sister, Annie Compton, and her 
husband helped to swell the list, for when Sir Hubert 
once went to Chile, for the sake of the long sea journey, I 
gave him an introduction to them, and to this day they 
speak affectionately and appreciatively of the pleasant 
hours they all spent together, in company with Mr. Franklin 
Taylor, with whom, I believe, he made the journey. 

It was not long before I again met at various houses 
most of the people to whom I was introduced that even- 
ing at Kensington Palace. Often and often when I 
think of them now, my mind travels back to the Past, 
and I see them once more as I saw them that night in 
the beautiful drawing-room of the historical old palace, 
in all the radiance of their youth and beauty, with the 
world at their feet, and their lives before them to make 
of them what they chose ! 



158 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I don't know if the clean-shaven Cobbett enjoyed his 
evening as much as I did, or whether, like Shelley's 
widow-bird, he "sat mourning" (his moustache) "on a 
wintry bough " in the gardens which were so conveniently 
near ; but I have no doubt he related his experiences 
to Sarah and the other servants in the kitchen, with 
much the same gusto as I related mine to mother and 
Auntie Dora and Emmie, in what Sarah, born and bred 
in the country, persisted in calling " The Room." 

In spite of the utter failure I made of the concerto 
that Sir George insisted on my attempting to write, and 
whose epitaph might well have been that of the Somerset- 
shire baby 

" Since I was so quickly done for, I wonder what I was begun 
for" 

I determined to try my hand at a pianoforte piece, 
and wrote a rondo, taking one of Beethoven's very simple 
ones as a model. I called it " Rondo Scherzando," 
because everyone used to laugh when they heard the last 
tiny phrase, which was totally unexpected, and which, 
occurring after a long pause, sounded quite comical. It 
was the sort of effect that ought really to have been 
thought of by a composer with a turned-up nose, and 
now I come to think of it it sounded exactly like a wink ! 
But it had quite a success, and not only was it performed 
at one of our Academy concerts or Fortnightlies, I forget 
which, but I was also allowed to publish it, and this time 
Mr. Stanley Lucas accepted it, title and all, without 
turning a hair ! 

Miss Margaret Bucknall played it charmingly for me. 
She was a very favourite pupil of Mr. Walter Macfarren, 
a clever musician, and so pretty, and kind, that she was 
one of the most popular girls in the place. She gave 
herself no end of trouble to play it just according to my 
ideas ; indeed, I can never say half enough for the good- 
will and cordiality with which my fellow-students under- 
took to get up the various songs and pieces I composed 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 159 

during the four years I worked at the R.A.M. Everyone 
who has ever had to decipher a musical manuscript 
knows how tiresome a task it is, and my MSS., I am sorry 
to say, often left much to be desired from every point 
of view. 

Shortly after composing that Rondo, I received 
a letter from Mrs. Feilden, with whom I had always kept 
up a warm correspondence, asking me if I would again 
come down to Torquay for another concert, the proceeds 
of which were to be given, as usual, to St. Raphael's 
Home. She said that Mary Wakefield had promised 
to sing for her, and that Mr. Charles Wade and Mr. 
Spencer Lyttelton were also going to help. 

I think, but am not quite sure, that my cousin Sophie 
Robertson was again to be the soprano. I was delighted 
at the prospect of seeing my dear, kind friend, and 
accepted to take part in the concert with very real pleasure. 
Mrs. Feilden said she was putting up Mary Wakefield, 
and asked me also to stay with her. I had been working 
hard, and was rather glad to get away from the Academy 
and London for a few days. When I arrived in Torquay 
I found we were all booked for a dinner-party, I forget 
where, though I still remember the extraordinary names 
of three people to whom I was introduced that evening, 
Mrs. Death, Miss Dance, and Mr. Tombs. Mr. Tombs 
took me into dinner, and I recollect expressing a mild 
hope that he might prove to be less sepulchral than his 
name, but I am afraid this rather obvious witticism was 
not at all appreciated in consequence of which I wisely 
refrained from asking him if he thought he could ever 
be induced to tear himself away from the Family Vault 
to come and see me in London. I devoutly wished I 
were at the other end of the dinner-table where Mary 
Wakefield and Mr. Lyttelton evidently had a great deal 
to talk about, whereas Mr. Tombs and I could hardly 
drag a word out of each other. But the longest dinner- 
party reaches the stage when the hostess catches the eye 
generally the glad eye of her most important guest, 
and at that moment I escaped from my charnel-house 



160 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

into the drawing-room with the other women of the party. 
Mary Wakefield, always my staunch friend, took me aside 
immediately 

" Look here," she said, " promise me, that if you are 
asked to play to-night, you will give them that ' Rondo 
Scherzando' of yours. I particularly want you to play 
that." 

I said I'd do so with pleasure, and asked her why she 
made such a point of just that particular piece. 

" Well," she said, " Mr. Lyttelton and I have been 
having a regular battle royal about you. I said you had 
written things I thought good, and he did nothing but 
laugh at me. He said he knew quite well what ' young 
ladies' ' compositions were like ! I stuck to my point, so 
now, of course, I am anxious that he should hear what 
you can do, and then afterwards I might sing ' Espoir 
en Dieu,' and some of your German songs." 

Mr. Lyttelton was not staying at Mrs. Feilden's house ; 
he was the guest of the people who gave the dinner-party, 
and there had been no opportunity, nor indeed any reason, 
for introducing us to each other before dinner. Little I 
thought that I was about to make a really good friend that 
evening, and one whose death following so closely on 
that of his brother Alfred, so much beloved, and so deeply 
mourned by every one was to make me feel so sad. 
He was quite a young man in those days, only twenty-nine. 
Many people thought him handsome, but I don't know 
that I should have used quite that word to describe him. 
I think it was something unusually distinguished about 
his whole appearance that set him apart from other men. 
His personal appearance was undoubtedly attractive, but it 
certainly was that look of extreme distinction that first 
drew my attention to him. He had a curiously brusque 
manner that almost took aback those who only knew him 
slightly. But his abrupt little speeches were so often 
followed by a smile so kind and genial, so lovable, that one 
never remembered anything else; indeed, his friends 
and almost everyone who knew him was his friend never 
spoke of any of his little idiosyncrasies without laughing 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 161 

affectionately about them. Only the other day Sir 
Rennell Rodd, our Ambassador in Rome, said to me 

" Spencer Lyttelton had a very tender heart beneath 
that brusque manner," and then after a moment he said, 
laughing 

" Do you remember that never-to-be-forgotten speech 
of his to George Leveson-Gower when, in the middle of the 
conversation, he said suddenly 

" c George, your language is coarse and your meaning 
obscure ! ' " 

Long before one had time to be indignant at being 
apostrophised in so startling a manner, to say nothing of 
being hurled neck and crop so unceremoniously into the 
Palace of Truth, one was laughing with everyone else, 
completely "bowled over " by something in his personality 
which we all loved. 

We used to quote these " Spencerisms " to each other, 
for everyone of us were victims in turn, but never did the 
conversation wind up except amid hearty laughter, and 
everyone would agree that " no one but an idiot could 
ever be offended for more than two minutes if that 
with anything " dear old Spencer ever did or said." 

There was something about him perhaps that in- 
definable something that is the essence of charm, and that 
like the wind " bloweth where it listeth " that appealed 
to scores of us who knew him from our youth. There was 
something in him that could be stirred to profound 
compassion, something really indestructibly kind. He 
was a man to be trusted blindly, and I can say so, for I 
once had an occasion to trust him up to the hilt, and a 
truer, more loyal, friend never existed. Perhaps it is only 
a woman friend who has made an appeal to his friendship 
in an hour of acute mental distress, who can adequately 
speak of the firm rock of deep-down chivalry on which 
his whole character was founded. 

It is not for nothing that a man is universally popular 

while he is alive not for nothing that when he passes 

away even his little weaknesses and peculiarities are dwelt 

on so affectionately, so tenderly, among those that are left 

ii 



162 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

behind, and who miss his genial, kind face at every turn. It 
is because there is something about a man whose heart is 
in the right place that disarms criticism, something that, 
when that heart has ceased to beat, makes his friends 
realise how much they cared for him, and how dear he 
was to them. 

But I want to forget for a little while that he is no 
more among us, and will now go back to the evening I first 
met him at that dinner-party in Torquay. 



CHAPTER XII. 

IT was quite a long time before the men returned to the 
drawing-room, and at last it was decided to begin the 
music without them, but at the very first sounds I saw 
Spencer Lyttelton's tall figure in the doorway. He was a 
genuine lover of music ; seldom, indeed, did he ever miss a 
concert of any importance, and his face must have been a 
familiar one to many a concert -goer with whom he was 
personally unacquainted. He was interested in a great 
variety of subjects, and was exceptionally well-informed, 
indeed, to know " le dessous des cartes " about everything 
that was going on was of absorbing interest to him ; 
he delighted in books and was a great traveller, and he 
certainly enjoyed a good story as much as anyone. His 
interest in politics was naturally very keen, for he was not 
only a nephew of Mr. Gladstone, but also one of his three 
private secretaries. The other two were Mr. Eddy 
Hamilton and Mr. George Leveson-Gower. For many 
years a photograph of Mr. Gladstone, surrounded by his 
three secretaries, and signed by all four of them, stood 
on my writing-table that photograph has, alas, been lost, 
so often have I changed my abode, so often have I been 
a wanderer on the face of the earth, and I cannot say how 
sorry I am to possess it no longer, for it reminded me of so 
many happy and delightful days. I can hardly say I 
knew Mr. Leveson-Gower, for I only met him once or 
twice ; on one of these occasions we were both guests at a 
week-end party at Panshanger, the beautiful country place 
in Hertfordshire that belonged to the late Earl Cowper, 
whose wife I loved from the first moment I met her. I 
often wondered that Spencer Lyttelton never tired of going 

to so many festivals, orchestral and Chamber concerts, 

163 



164 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

private recitals, etc., but his interest in music was so keen 
and unflagging that only a very few days before his death 
he went to a classical concert, the last music, alas, that 
he was ever to hear ! 

I forget with what we opened our little concert that 
evening, but later on, when I was asked to play, I 
naturally began with the " Rondo Scherzando." I 
wasn't often nervous when I was asked to play in 
drawing-rooms, though I always hated having to perform 
a solo in public, in fact, I have always disliked public 
appearances, and the concerts I used sometimes to give 
myself always weighed on my mind like so many tons 
of lead till they were things of the past ! But on this 
occasion I felt a little excited, as if I were being put 
through my paces, for I realised that I must do my 
very best to live up to the musical reputation on which 
dear Mary Wakefield had almost risked her own. Her 
kind eyes shone with satisfaction as I played the last 
bars (the bars that sounded like a wink !) for she saw 
Mr. Lyttelton making his way up to the piano, evidently 
with the intention, to judge by the expression on his 
face, of making friends. And so he did. He beamed 
on me with that nice smile of his, and said something 
that put me very much at my ease. 

" Do tell me," he said quite eagerly, " who is the 
composer of that charming Rondo. I don't remember 
having ever heard it before." 

I said that I had written it, and added that Mary 
Wakefield had told me all about their conversation at 
dinner, and that I was quite au courant as to his 
opinion on the subject of women composers, He threw 
back his head and laughed, and for the first time I heard 
that sudden " Ha ! " that all his friends used to try and 
imitate whenever they quoted a " Spencerism." " Come 
and have a talk," he said ; " I'm quite open to conversion 
You certainly haven't gone in for the c Goutte d'Eau ' sort 
of drawing-room piece which is the only thing up to now 
connected in my mind with lady composers. Do tell me 
what you are doing, and with whom you are studying." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 165 

And that was the way our friendship began. 

Mrs. Feilden's concert took place on the following 
afternoon, and went off capitally. Though the singers 
were all amateurs, yet they were real musicians ; they 
had studied seriously, and knew what they were about 
almost as well as any professionals. Few indeed were 
the concerts given for charitable purposes in which all 
three of them did not constantly take part. As for 
Mr. Charles Wade, he sang all over England for years, 
but Londoners would, I think, connect him specially 
with the celebrated performances of Bach's Passion 
Music, which always took place in Lent at the church 
of St. Anne, Soho, of which his father was the Rector. 
He had a very agreeable tenor voice. 

While Mary Wakefield and Mr. Wade were singing 
a duet, Mr. Lyttelton and I were left to entertain each 
other in the artists' room. He suddenly said to me 

" Why don't you join Henry Leslie's choir ? Miss 
Wakefield is a member of it, so am I, so is Wade. I 
believe you would enjoy the practices, and you would 
meet any amount of pleasant people there." 

I thought it sounded delightful, and told him so, and then 
he said he would arrange everything for me, and would 
let me know when the next rehearsal was to take place ; 
they sometimes met at the house of one of the members. 

I did not happen to know Mr. Henry Leslie, who was 
a very important person in those days, but I knew his 
son, Mr. William Leslie, very well indeed. He had been 
introduced to me, at the house of my trustee, by Mr. 
John Lloyd, a barrister friend, and I had often danced 
with him, both at home and at Porchester Terrace. No 
doubt his dancing days, like mine, are over, but when 
he was a youth no one ever waltzed better, and he was 
quite one of my favourite partners. I was always glad 
when I saw him making his way up to me in the beautiful 
drawing-room of the Rose-Innes's house, which we often 
used for dancing purposes. And he was a charming 
companion as well as a perfect dancer. Everyone was 
fond of " Willie Leslie." 



166 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Mrs. Feilden's concert had gone off so well that we 
all promised to return for another in the following year. 
She loved getting up concerts. Her eldest daughter 
used to say laughingly, " When mother goes to heaven, 
she won't be really happy unless she is allowed to 
organise some sort of a performance there every now 
and again." And Mr. Rose-Innes, who was very fond 
of her, used laughingly to accuse her of deliberately and 
systematically by some means known to herself alone 
undermining the foundations of St. Raphael's Home, 
and maliciously causing dry-rot to ensue, with the sole 
object of having another concert. He said the annual 
collapse of some portion of St. Raphael's Home amounted 
to a phenomena ! 

Two or three days after I returned to Hyde Park 
Gate, I received a note from Mr. Lyttelton saying that 
the next practice of the Henry Leslie Choir was to take 
place at Mr. Arthur Balfour's house in Carlton Gardens ; 
he added that the members would shortly give a concert 
at St. James's Hall, and that there was some idea of asking 
me to play at it. I went to that practice with my sister 
Emmie, and to my surprise the first person to greet me, 
after Mr. Lyttelton, was Princess Louise, who was also 
a member of the choir. I think she sang with the 
soprani ; she was sitting close to the door, as I came 
in with my sister, and was as kind to me as the last 
time I had the honour and pleasure of meeting her. I 
have often thought that the charming courtesy shown 
to others by the various members of our Royal Family 
that I have had the honour of meeting, is an object- 
lesson to all of us. And so is the consideration and 
kindness of most members of the English aristocracy 
with whom I have come in contact during the course 
of my life. When I became a bona fide professional, 
some few years later, I was continually asked to teach 
my own songs to many of them ; I was also asked, in some 
cases, to give pianoforte lessons and to play or accompany 
compositions of my own at private parties at their houses. 
Some of my pupils were married women, some of them 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 167 

young girls who were already going out into society. I 
hadn't the slightest idea what life would be like from 
a teacher's point of view, but I had made up my mind 
to give lessons for some time, as I was anxious to make 
a certain sum of money for one or two objects on which 
I had set my heart. Most of those lessons are among 
the most delightful recollections of my early woman- 
hood ; all my pupils became intimate and close friends, 
with very few exceptions, and a lesson generally meant 
a delightful luncheon party as well, at which, in course 
of time, I met almost everyone worth knowing in London. 

I saw Mr. Arthur Balfour for the first time at that 
rehearsal. I thought there was a certain likeness but 
not at all of face between him and my new friend, 
Spencer Lyttelton the same careless way of wearing 
their clothes, the same " something " that I think often 
exists between men born and bred in the same milieu, 
who have been at the same school, the same university. 
But I never met him to speak to until some time after- 
wards, when he took me in to dinner one evening at Lady 
Cobham's house. Mr. Balfour is also a great lover of 
music, but whenever he has asked me to play, he has 
generally asked for Bach. I recollect, however, also play- 
ing Brahms' Hungarian Dances for him, and those he 
seemed to like very much ; in later years, when we met 
at the houses of common friends, he would also ask me 
to play certain of my own songs. I don't think modern 
music, what we understand by modern music now, has 
ever appealed to him much. 

Mrs. Edmund Wodehouse and I played a duet, by Bach, 
for two pianos at the next Henry Leslie concert at St. 
James's Hall. She was in every sense of the word a 
beautiful pianist, for she was as beautiful as she was 
talented. She was a daughter of Rev. C. W. Bagot, Rector 
of Sandringham. Sandringham, as every one knows, was 
the favourite country home of the Prince of Wales (after- 
wards King Edward vn.). I became very friendly 
with her, and it was she who, a few years later, wrote a 
little paragraph about my songs in Sir George Groves' 



168 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Dictionary of Music. I met her not long ago at one 
of my own concerts in London, and felt inclined to ask 
her whether she had spent the intervening years in search- 
ing for, and finding, the Elixir of Youth. I had not seen 
her for about twenty years, and she was not in the least 
changed. She told me that her mother was so extra- 
ordinarily young looking that, at a ball at Sandringham, 
where she was present with her eldest daughter, one of 
her partners asked her if it were her own first ball ! I 
had an exactly opposite experience, alas ! When I was 
eighteen, I once stayed at an hotel in Scarborough where 
I had gone with my trustee and his three daughters for 
a breath of sea air. His second daughter, a pretty girl of 
fourteen, was one day walking upstairs slightly in front 
of me, when I was joined by a portly lady of about fifty, 
who entered into conversation with me. " What a charm- 
ing girl," she said, pointing to my little friend, " your 
own, of course ? " Her face was a study, and so, no 
doubt, was mine, when I told her I was only eighteen 
myself. Needless to say she did not believe me, I could 
see that, and silently and sadly I swallowed the bitter 
pill. A few years later, when I was only twenty-two, 
I was asked after my six darling little children (pill No. 2). 
I had been mistaken for one of my married sisters nearly 
nine years older than myself. Since then I have always 
felt in sympathy with the old Irishwoman who lived 
somewhere in an un-get-at-able bog in County Kerry, 
and who applied for a widow's pension on which she 
lived contentedly for years. One fine day it was dis- 
covered that she was not a widow at all. She was a 
single lady of spotless reputation ; her life had been 
almost criminally blameless. Had she written her memoirs, 
the police would have been absolutely justified in arrest- 
ing her (and her publisher) on the charge of " wilful 
murder," for without the shadow of a doubt every copy 
sold would have bored some one to death. When she was 
accused of having behaved in a most deceitful manner, she 
was indignant. 

" Divil a bit, yer Honour," she said. " Isn't it the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 169 

worst kind o' widdy I am, since I niver had a husband at 
all, at all ! " 

No more had I at least if I had, I don't remember 
who he was, so the probability is that I also am the 
worst kind of widdy, and, what is more, I haven't even 
had a pension to keep my spirits up. Even my godmother 
never gave me anything but a bog oak owl with glaring 
eyes of yellow glass ! It was made up into a large brooch, 
and she really expected me to wear it when I was only 
nine years old. Somehow I mislaid that brooch. 
True, that when she died she left me a legacy of twenty 
pounds which was forwarded to me by her lawyer, but 
it was borrowed on the spot by a relation, who, with a 
" flair " that can only be described as uncanny, called 
upon me the very evening I received the cheque ! Need- 
less to say, not a penny of it was ever returned. I can't 
say I was much upset. To this day it makes me laugh 
to think of the cinematographic rapidity with which the 
whole affair was transacted, and which was worthy of 
being described by the immortal Jingle 

" Godmother in extremis Extra twenty pounds kicking about 
Codicil godchild. Godchild bit of an idiot receives cheque 
10 a.m. entire sum relation's pocket 10 p.m. MEM., HOPELESS." 

Yes, it's a serious thing to be the worst kind of widdy, 
and I must say that since married people are allowed so 
unblushingly to make such capital out of their weddings 
in the first instance, and then again out of their silver 
and golden weddings in the second and third instance, 
spinsters and bachelors might at least in common justice 
be allowed one miserable, paltry, little Jubilee upon reach- 
ing the age of forty-five. If presents came pouring in 
whether one were married or not, I for one would not 
succumb to such appalling attacks of low spirits when 
I lunch or dine out with prosperous couples whose tables 
and sideboards are literally groaning beneath the weight 
of silver dishes and ornaments for which they certainly 
have never paid one single, solitary brass farthing. 

" One of our wedding presents, wasn't it, John, 
darling ? " 



170 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Or- 

16 The dear Howards sent it to us for our silver wed- 
ding, didn't they, Charlie, dear ? " 

It's more than spinster blood and flesh can bear. I 
lose my appetite and my spirits when I think that never, 
never has any one given me two perfectly useless silver 
tankards, or a silver bowl the size of a baby's bath ; 
never have / been given nine umbrellas or eighteen 
photograph frames, just because I'm a spinster, forsooth ! 
I think of that bog oak owl (that's the sort of present 
spinsters are presented with, even when they are only 
nine), and the tears roll silently down my soured expres- 
sion, and when " John, darling " or " Charlie, dear " asks 
me with sham anxiety " What is the matter ? " I answer 
with perfect truth (for after all we are at table) that 
it is something that has stuck in my throat, and that I 
simply cannot swallow ! 

Mary Wakefield and Mr. Lyttelton introduced me to 
so many of their own friends, and were, indirectly, the 
cause of my meeting so many other interesting and agree- 
able people that I soon began to go out a great deal. 
I thoroughly enjoyed it ; people were so charming to me 
that I began to think they had all formed a " League 
of Kindness " for my special benefit ! 

But I worked as hard as ever I think, indeed, that 
I worked even harder, for I had read in the Times that 
there was to be a competition for the Mendelssohn 
Scholarship in February 1879, and I had made up my 
mind to go in for it. The Scholarship was one that had 
been founded in honour of Mendelssohn, and though it 
had been only held by men up to the time of which I 
am writing, it was also open to women. In the article 
I read, it said that the preference would unhesitatingly 
be given to composers, unless a singer or instrumental 
player should give some proof of genius far superior to 
any shown by the composers. The latter were free to 
send in anything they chose vocal or instrumental ; they 
were at perfect liberty to send in compositions written 
two or three years ago or compositions specially written 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 171 

for the occasion. But one had to be under twenty-four 
to be eligible. When I read the article in the Times, 
I thought to myself, " Here is my one and only chance 
of winning a scholarship." Hitherto there had always 
been certain cut-and-dried conditions attached to every 
prize I had gone in for at the Academy ; either a special 
piece had to be played, or a special composition to be 
composed. As a rule (and I am afraid in my case there 
was never an exception to prove the rule) the mere fact 
of having to conform to any conditions whatsoever 
crippled me to an extent that was almost pathetic. I 
invariably did my worst, or at any rate very far from 
my best, on these occasions, and if I never won a scholar- 
ship at the Academy it was because I never wrote any- 
thing that deserved to win one. The Mendelssohn 
Scholarship had nothing to do with the Academy. Any- 
one, provided he or she were a British subject, was 
eligible. There was a freedom, a latitude, about the 
whole thing that appealed to me. Manuscripts had to 
be sent in by a certain date, and on another day, about 
a month later, there was to be a viva voce examination, 
when composers would have to perform their scores to 
the best of their ability, improvise, read music, etc. etc., 
while pianists and singers would have to play and sing 
the pieces they had prepared. I think I am right in 
saying that singers also were eligible for this scholarship, 
though it is all so long ago that I find it difficult to re- 
member details which did not concern me. Eighteen 
students entered their names for the Mendelssohn Scholar- 
ship in 1879 sixteen youths and two girls, Miss Cecile 
Hartog and myself. Miss Hartog was half, if not wholly, 
French, but being a naturalised Englishwoman she was 
eligible. The scholarship was really well worth having, 
for it meant eighty pounds a year to the successful com- 
petitor, who was generally sent to Leipzig or any other 
place in Germany where the very best tuition was to be 
had. I was told that one or two students had spent 
the years during which they held it with some well-known 
German composer. If so, they were very fortunate ; to 



172 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

live in a congenial atmosphere is certainly half the battle, 
as any artist knows who has been obliged to struggle 
along in one at variance with his temperament. As soon 
as I had sent in my name to the Committee, I held a 
council of war with my dear and faithful old friend, Mr. 
Oliver May. I believed in him as I believed in no other 
teacher of music living. As I have said before, the 
Mendelssohn Scholarship had nothing to do with the 
R.A.M. ; I had asked and received permission to compete 
for it, and now I considered it was my business to prepare 
for it to the very best of my ability. I have forgotten 
to say that composers were also expected to play two 
or three pieces. The pianoforte was only my second 
study at the R.A.M., and I had only two lessons a week, 
which lasted half an hour Excellent as they were, I 
felt they would not be sufficient to enable me to get up 
the pieces which I had chosen. For on this occasion I 
would be expected to play like a pianist, not like a com- 
poser two very different things ! I knew that Mr. May 
would be absolutely pitiless with me. If he told me I 
was fit to play, I felt quite certain it would be all right. 
What a blessed thing it is to be able to trust anyone ! 
I knew that though it was quite on the cards that some- 
one else might carry off the scholarship, still, if Mr. May 
" backed me " there was no chance of my disgracing 
myself, and that was always something. 

We decided that I was to get up the following three 
compositions : 1. Liszt's arrangement of Bach's Organ 
Fugue in G Minor. 2. Mendelssohn's Andante and 
Presto cappricioso. 3. Sterndale Bennett's Allegro 
giojoso. 

He advised me to play the Mendelssohn piece because 
the Scholarship was in his honour, and he thought that, 
as an English student I ought most certainly to include 
a composition by an Englishman. I thought so too. I 
am the most out-and-out cosmopolitan that ever lived, 
but on one subject I feel English to the backbone, and 
that is in my desire to let everyone know that if I have 
ever done anything that has given pleasure to my con- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 173 

temporaries, it is owing to the training I have received 
from English professors. 

Mr. Rockstro and Mr. Oliver May were the first to 
teach me the rudiments of harmony and counterpoint, 
and I wrote a few songs under their guidance. 

At the Royal Academy of Music I studied composition 
with the Principal, Sir George Macfarren, and during the 
time I held the Mendelssohn Scholarship I had extra 
lessons with his son-in-law, Mr. Frank Davenport. Many, 
many years afterwards, when I was working on my own 
account, I studied orchestration with that best of pro- 
fessors and kindest of friends, Mr. Sydney Waddington, 
of the Royal College of Music. Later still I had lessons 
in orchestration from Mr. Herbert Bedford. He is not 
attached either to the R.A.M. or to the Royal College of 
Music, and more's the pity, in my humble opinion, for 
he teaches splendidly. Were I going to open a school 
of music I should refuse to do so till I could head my 
list of professors with Mr. Sydney Waddington and Mr. 
Herbert Bedford as Professors of Orchestration, for they 
both have the secret of imparting their knowledge to an 
extent I have never seen equalled, to say nothing of 
their kindness and patience. To all these men I owe a 
debt of deep and affectionate gratitude, and I am glad 
and happy more happy than I can say to acknowledge 
it publicly now that I have the chance of doing so. 

I don't think I consulted anyone as to the compositions 
I should send in to the Committee. I felt that I was 
very much " on my own " in this affair, and thought I 
would simply dispatch whatever I cared for most myself. 
I had no concerto or symphony with which to " fare 
figura" as they say in Italian. But at any rate I had 
some songs that had been a real labour of love, and one 
composition on a somewhat larger scale. This was an 
"Agnus Dei" for solo voices and chorus. It was scored 
for full orchestra, and was afterwards performed at one 
of our Orchestral concerts at St. James's Hall. How well 
I remember a remark dear old Signer Randegger once 
made to me about it. He was playing it through one 



174 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

day at Porchester Terrace, where he had been having tea 
with us. 

When he came to the phrase 

" Agnus Dei qui tollis peccata mundi, dona nobis pacem " 

he played it quietly and calmly. He could not imagine 
that any one could wish to interpret these words otherwise. 
He was almost shocked when I said to him 
" Don't play it in that calm way, play it with passion." 
He turned round in his chair and said very seriously 
" My dear child, what do you mean ? That is not the 
way to interpret those beautiful, sacred words." 

I remember our conversation as though it had taken 
place yesterday. After a while he said 

" Your conception of this is all wrong ; you are not 
praying, you are ordering the Almighty to give you 
what you want." 

I said that was not what I had intended, but that I 
wanted to convey in my music that it was some one who 
longed for peace so desperately, that he could only pray 
for it desperately. But we both understood each other 
before we said good-bye that evening. He had a kind, 
a tender, heart. 

The three songs that I remember sending in to the 
Committee were " Espoir en Dieu," " Chant ez, chant ez, 
jeune inspired ! " (both poems by Victor Hugo), and a 
setting of " My ain kind dearie O ! " by Burns. I had 
written the music to the latter in a fit of red-hot 
enthusiasm 

" Gi'e me the hour o' gloaming grey, 
It makes my heart sae cheery O 
To meet thee on the lea-rig, 
My ain kind dearie O ! " 

Mary Wakefield, very little older than myself, sang it 
with such spirit, that (though I who say it certainly 
shouldn't) it really brought the house down whenever 
we did it together. The accompaniment, toned down to 
meet the publishers' requirements, was a terror, as I 
played it myself. It was ten times more difficult than 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 175 

the printed one, and dashed along like a mountain torrent 
gone mad with joy ! 

" Down by the burn where scented birks 
Wi' dew are hanging clear, my jo, 
I'll meet thee on the lea-rig, 
My ain kind dearie O ! " 

I loved that poem. The youth of all womanhood, 
glowing with love, seemed to me to live and breathe in 
those lines ; the eternal woman who will meet her " ain 
kind dearie," though all the legions of hell stand between 
them to bar the way ! The eternal woman who laughs 
at obstacles and welcomes them almost joyously, so that 
they may be overcome and flung aside proofs of a love 
that is strong stronger than anything that dare confront 
it, stronger than Death itself. 

Burns knew woman, the heart of woman, when he 
wrote that last line 

" My ain kind dearie O ! " 

Father Faber says somewhere 

" Kind words are the music of the world." 

But the beautiful, unfailing kindness of the man to the 
woman he loves, and who loves him what music can 
equal that ? 

Each candidate for the Scholarship had received a 
memorandum from Mr. Julian Marshall, Secretary to 
the Committee, advising him of the day and hour which 
had been fixed for the competition. It had been decided 
that it should take place at the house of the late Mr. 
W. G. Cusins, which was, if I remember rightly, at the 
top of Wimpole Street. 

And the great day dawned at last the day that meant 
so much to all of us ! 

On arriving at the house towards three o'clock, I was 
ushered into the dining-room downstairs, where a number 
of young men and one young girl were standing round 
the fire. I knew and liked Miss Cecile Hartog, and I 
was on pleasant terms with several of the boys, who, 
like myself, were students at the R.A.M. I remember 



176 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

thinking "I wonder which of you will win the Scholar- 
ship." Of late I had been asked so often, " Who do you 
think has the best chance ? " that I had begun to think I 
had founded my own hopes on very little. 

And after a few moments the ordeal began. One by 
one we were summoned to the drawing-room upstairs. 
It was Mr. Eyres, the professor of the sight-singing class 
at the Academy, who appeared every quarter of an hour 
or so at the dining-room door, and called out the name 
of the student who was to go up for examination. He 
looked almost, if not quite, as solemn as my bog oak owl, 
and could hardly have looked more impressive had he 
been summoning us to the gallows ! Those left behind 
tried to talk, but we were all far too nervous, far too 
excited, for any real conversation. 

At last, after what seemed an eternity, my turn came 
round, and I followed Mr. Eyres up the staircase. As I 
entered the drawing-room I glanced at the long table at 
which about a dozen men were sitting. My old professor, 
Sir George Macfarren, the veteran of the party, sat at 
the head of it in his capacity of Principal of the R.A.M. 
There was a look of real anxiety on his kind, blind face, 
and a longing to do well for his sake as well as mine 
rushed over me. I remember noticing the rather leonine 
head of Mr. Norman Grosvenor, who was also on the 
Committee. Mr. Julian Marshall next attracted my 
attention, as well he might, for he was extremely good- 
looking. Then I saw the tall figure of Mr. Cusins, who I 
only knew by sight. I had seen him conduct at the 
Philharmonic concerts at St James's Hall. 

And then I saw a very well-known face, the face of a 
man with whose name the whole of England was familiar, 
the composer of the innumerable and delightful comic 
operas that have gone the round of the world and have 
certainly done their share to contribute to the gaiety of 
nations. I saw the clever, genial face of Sir Arthur 
Sullivan, the last man to hold the scholarship. As I came 
in he looked at me, I thought, kindly. I liked him straight 
away, I liked those clever, kind, brown eyes. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 177 

I began with the Bach fugue, and played it from 
beginning to end. Then I played part of the other two. 
After that I was asked to read a piece, composed for the 
occasion, and to improvise on a theme which Sir Arthur 
gave me. 

And then I sang " My ain kind dearie." I heard 
afterwards that it was that song that had made Sir 
Arthur my friend, for he mentioned it to Signor Randegger, 
and referred amusingly to the hoarse voice in which I 
sang it. The hoarse voice, alas, is mine still, and on the 
day of the competition it was even more like a raucous 
bass than it is now, for I had hardly recovered from a 
really dreadful cough from which I had been suffering 
all the winter. 

I was trembling as I finished playing and singing 
the last notes, and felt really giddy with excitement. 
Just as I was about to get up from the piano, thinking 
everything was over, one of the examiners gave me a 
little score to read. Sir Arthur came and stood beside 
me ; how I blessed him for it the next moment ! I have 
never found it easy to read the alto or tenor clefs, I cannot 
imagine why, but to this day they embarrass me, and to 
read a really difficult score means a blinding headache to 
me after a very short while. 

Of course I begun to stumble over this one, and a 
feeling of despair seized me. 

All of a sudden Sir Arthur snatched the music away 
I didn't know what was going to happen ! 

" Leave her alone," he said. 

Then, turning to the other examiners, who were 
sitting at the long table, he said 

" Leave her alone, she's dead tired." 

I really loved him at that minute. 

Then Mr. Eyres solemnly opened the door for me again. 
I went back to the dining-room, where I was at once 
surrounded by the anxious little crowd 

" How did you get on ? " 

" Isn't it an awful ordeal." 

" Weren't you fearfully nervous ? " etc. etc. 



178 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I must say that what made me more nervous than 
anything else was the scratch, scratch of the quill pens 
with which the examiners recorded their impression of each 
candidate, and which could be heard with painful distinct- 
ness although the piano stood at the other end of the 
room. 

After about an hour had elapsed, Mr. Eyres once more 
came downstairs. 

All of us were standing anxiously round the fire, shiver- 
ing with cold and excitement, but we turned en masse as 
he opened the door. 

We were expecting to hear the verdict, but he merely 
said 

" The examiners would feel much obliged if Miss White 
would kindly return to the drawing-room for a few 
moments." 

I can't describe what I felt on hearing these words. I 
hardly dared look round. I felt that a dreadful dis- 
appointment was in store for the others, and it almost 
spoiled the overwhelming joy that had suddenly invaded 
my heart. For no one else had been recalled. It was 
quite late, about seven o'clock, if not more ; they must 
have made up their minds by now. But had they ? 
Had they ? Oh, what was going to happen ? Again I 
followed Mr. Eyres up the stairs, and once more I stood 
in front of the examiners. Sir George was the first to 
speak, and his first words set my heart beating faster than 
ever. 

" The Committee wish to know if in case of your 
being elected Mendelssohn Scholar you would be content 
to go abroad to Germany for two or three years ? 

I said 

>c Yes, I will go anywhere you like." 

Just then Sir Arthur said something in an undertone 
to the Principal, and then, a moment afterwards, he turned 
to me and said thoughtfully 

" You are very young." 

Then, after a little pause, and with such a kind ring 
in his pleasant voice, he added 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 179 

" You are very young to go abroad alone." 

I liked him better than ever, but to my dying day I shall 
regret not having made the obvious retort, " Anyhow, 
I'm not in pinafores," which certainly he was, for his 
celebrated comic opera, H.M.S. Pinafore, was having an 
almost phenomenal success just then. 

I said I wasn't a bit afraid of going anywhere alone, 
that I knew Germany, and could speak German, and that 
I was certain I would be allowed to go that I was sure it 
could be managed somehow. 

And then I was again escorted to the door by Mr. 
Eyres. I had been told nothing definite. I did not feel 
absolutely certain that they would decide in my favour. 
I thought with despair of my youth my sex would 
they stand in my way ? I felt in a fever of apprehension. 

When I returned to the drawing-room the others again 
surrounded me 

" Why did they send for you ? " 

" What did they say to you ? " 

" Are they going to give it to you ? " 

I said I didn't know I really, really didn't know. 

Five minutes later the door was thrown open and Mr. 
Eyres once more stood there. 

He didn't speak for two or three seconds. The silence 
was almost unbearable. 

" The Mendelssohn Scholarship has been won " 

He paused and looked round the room for the successful 
candidate. And then he called out my name very slowly 
and distinctly. 

And I should like to print in letters of gold the way 
those boys and that one girl, to whom it must have been 
such a bitter disappointment, surrounded me for the third 
time and shook hands with me and generously congratu- 
lated me on my success. I could cry when I think of it 
now, notwithstanding all the years that lie between that 
day and this. 

Two of them I specially remember they were my 
fellow-students at the R.A.M. 

The first to give me the warmest handshake a boy 



180 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

ever gave a girl was Mr. Tobias Matthay who has done 
such first-rate work himself. He played splendidly that 
day, and I am sure that had it not been for the hard and 
fast rule that composers were to be given the preference, I 
would not have stood half a chance of competing successfully 
against him. Mr. Eyres must have forgotten to close 
the drawing-room door during his turn, for I heard him 
perfectly, and I remember the spirit, the " entrain," and 
the faultless execution with which he played. I recollect 
thinking, " That puts an end to my chances." I have 
always cared tremendously for the player who plays with 
absolute conviction and vitality. 

The other student was Miss Cecile Hartog. I 
can still see her sensitive, dark, little face, can still re- 
member the kind pressure of her little hand as she gener- 
ously and warmly wished me joy. I never see either of 
them now I have lived away so many years out of 
London, out of England ; but it would be a real joy to 
me should they ever come across these few lines should 
they ever know how deep an impression their kind words 
made upon me that day. 

Till I got out of the room I can honestly say there was 
as much pain as pleasure in the whole thing. But when, 
for the third time, I accompanied Mr. Eyres upstairs, 
when the examiners all shook hands with me, when kind 
Sir Arthur Sullivan wished me joy, and I saw the look 
of real pleasure in dear old Sir George's blind face, when 
even Mr. Eyres suddenly looked like a soft-hearted human 
being, incapable of being suspected of any relationship 
whatsoever to owls of any description, then my cup of 
happiness really ran over. 

Well do I remember Sir George's parting words to 
me 

" Miss White, would you remain in England after 
all ? it seems to me hard that we should always send 
away the pupils who are likely to do us credit." 

I said 

" Of course I will remain, I will consent most willingly 
to do anything and everything you think best." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 181 

Then he said (the others were all standing up ready 
to go) 

" Will you tell us again where you were born ? " 

I said 

" I was born in Normandy." 

The old professor threw up his hands in comic despair 

" It's no use," he said. " Can't anyone be born in 
England ! " 

When it was all over I flew down the stairs, into the 
street, and hailed the first hansom I saw. I told the 
man to drive to Hyde Park Gate as quickly as possible ; 
no doubt he carried out my instructions, but oh, how that 
horse crawled ! 

But we reached the house at last. I rushed up to 
my mother's little sitting-room on the first floor, but she 
had heard my ring at the bell, and was at the door to 
meet me. 

" Mother," I cried, " I've won it I " 

" No," she said, with a little catch in her voice ; 
" no, no, you can't have won it ! " 

" But I have, I have, I can't believe it myself, but 
it's true it really is " 

How she hugged me ! 

And when the hansom cabman rang at the door nearly 
three hours later (I had quite forgotten to pay him in my 
excitement) she only laughed, and said it didn't matter. 
After all one didn't win the Mendelssohn Scholarship 
every day of one's life and (this was what she was really 
proud of) it had never been won before by a woman. 

Next day there was a paragraph in the Times I found 
it in my mother's little workbox after her death. 

And the day after I received over seventy letters 
of congratulation. I was so happy and so tired that I 
celebrated the event by breakfasting in bed. I felt as if 
nothing could ever go wrong again in the world, and as 
if anything that ever had gone wrong must inevitably 
come right now ! 



CHAPTER XIII. 

THE first few days that succeeded the competition were 
indeed pleasant ones ; wherever I went I was congratu- 
lated and made much of, everyone said something kind, 
and invitations to luncheons, teas, and dinners poured in, 
in fact I tasted popularity for the first time, and very 
good it tasted too ! Even Mr. Charles Wade, who I met 
coming out of St. James's Hall after a Sat. Pop., stopped 
me to say, " Well done you." I say, " Even Mr. Charles 
Wade," because it was the first and the last compliment 
he ever paid me in his life. For some occult reason we 
always behaved to each other like two Kilkenny cats ; 
we couldn't be five minutes in the same room without 
coming to loggerheads, and the fur flew did we catch 
sight of each other, though it were only on the horizon. 
Had we crossed the Atlantic in opposite directions and 
met for a brief span in mid-ocean, I am certain there 
would have been strange atmospheric disturbances for 
which the oldest salt on board would have been unable 
to account. The humorous part of the situation was 
that we never really quarrelled about anything at all ! 
My private opinion is that Mr. Charles Wade anticipated 
a swollen head on my part ; he evidently thought that 
prevention was better than cure, that a little stern 
discipline would be a very good thing for my character, 
and that, as none of my friends showed the slightest 
disposition to take me in hand, he would proceed to do 
so himself. No honeyed words ever fell from his stern 
lips into my poor ears ; quite the reverse. There was 
far too much of Mr. Gilbert's "Happy, undeserving A " 
about me to please him. Had he been the arbiter of my 
fate I am sure I would have been condemned to play 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 183 

the r61e of " Wretched, meritorious B " from one year's 
end to another. Mary Wakefield used to laugh heartily 
at the persistent way he cast about for a bone to pick 
with me. Alas, such bones were always lying about ! 
On one of these memorable occasions I happened to be 
wearing a white dress ; it was a charming evening-dress, 
and I delighted in it. He looked at me sardonically for a 
minute, and then said in withering accents, " I suppose 
you think you look like a bride," after which he stalked 
away with a " you-are-the-only-person-who-thinks-so- 
anyhow " expression on his face. It was really fright- 
fully funny, if a trifle unceremonious, but I didn't think 
so at the time ; my sense of humour took wings at the 
mere sight of him, and I longed, like the bluebottle of 
one's nursery days, to " fly away home." 

One of the people who rejoiced most sincerely at my 
election to the Mendelssohn scholarship was dear Mr. 
Innes. He beamed all over when I told him my good 
news, and his first thought was, as usual, a kind one ; 
he said 

" Do ask Mr. May to come and dine with us. We 
must all meet here to give you three cheers and drink 
your health, and he must be one of the party, for certainly 
he has been one of your truest friends." 

What a gay little dinner it was ! I think Mary Wake- 
field and Signor Randegger came to it, and, if I remember 
rightly, I sat between Mr. Innes and Mr. May. I felt 
rather shy when they drank my health, but in my heart of 
hearts I was as proud as Punch. 

The first time I went to have a lesson at the R.A.M. 
in my new capacity as Mendelssohn Scholar was also a 
delightful experience. Dear " Old Mac " received me 
with open arms, and every time I met a student with 
whom I was even superficially acquainted, he or she 
stopped to say something kind and nice. " Old Mac " 
said 

" Now that you are so rich you can have any amount 
of extra lessons, and I don't think you can do better 
than go to Mr. Frank Davenport for them." 



184 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Mr. Frank Davenport was his son-in-law. I liked 
him immensely. He often gave me my lessons in a 
little room at the top of Mr. Stanley Lucas's shop, and 
they were a very great source of pleasure to me. Of 
course it all meant a lot of extra work, but I didn't mind 
that. 

I composed a great many songs that spring German, 
French, and English. " Absent yet Present " was among 
the number. It was admirably sung for the first time 
at one of our Fortnightly Meetings by a German student 
Miss Reimers. She had a fine contralto voice, and 
sang with a good deal of temperament. She spoke 
English perfectly, and both singer and song had a great 
success that evening. I was allowed to print it at once. 
How well I remember meeting Signer Randegger in 
Bond Street next day, on my way to Mr. Lucas's with 
the manuscript ! Signor Randegger was a great 
favourite with us all, and was certainly one of the most 
popular professors at the R.A.M. He was so warm- 
hearted, so kind, so willing to do a good turn to anyone 
who stood in need of it, that it was no wonder that 
everyone was fond of him. He was as everyone knows 
an Italian from Trieste, but he might have been a 
boy from Taormina by the way he gave you his candid 
opinion whether you liked it or whether you didn't ! 
But what does anything matter when you are " simpatico " 
from top to toe ! He had been at our little concert the 
night before. (I think Miss Reimers was one of his 
pupils.) 

When I told him I was taking my song to Mr. Lucas 
as I had received permission to publish it, he shook his 
head and said 

" Well, my dear child, I only hope Mr. Lucas will 
take it. I like the song. I like it very much indeed, 
but the publisher's point of view isn't always the same 
as the musician's, you know." 

This was rather disconcerting, and I suppose he saw 
the look of disappointment on my face. 

" I am not saying that I think Mr. Lucas won't 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 185 

take it. What I mean is that there is absolutely no 
sale for songs of that sort. It isn't what the public 
wants." 

He spoke very decidedly, and I began to feel de- 
pressed. 

" But look what a success it had last night," I said 
tentatively. " That goes for something, doesn't it ? " 

' Yes, yes," he said impatiently, " but a success of 
that sort means nothing from a business point of view. 
Your song was sung to a lot of musical people who knew 
what it was all about, but the public the real public 
won't care about it. They won't be able to make head 
or tail of it. It is over their heads, believe me." 

"Over their heads?" I exclaimed; "but it is quite 
simple ! " 

" That accompaniment is enough to ruin its chances," 
he answered. " You oughtn't to make your accompani- 
ments so difficult." 

Well, thank goodness, Mr. Lucas didn't see things 
quite in the same light ! And I suppose that, taking 
it altogether, " Absent yet Present " sold better and 
was sung longer than any song I ever wrote. 

It seems almost incredible a Vheure qtfil est to think 
that a song so absolutely straightforward as " Absent 
yet Present " could ever have been considered over the 
head of any human being in possession of one ! Such, 
however, was the opinion of a man, an excellent musician 
himself, who certainly was in touch with the concert- 
going public of that day. 

But what on earth would become of the unfortunate 
song-writer who kept his eye on the sort of person who 
is really next door but one to the phenomenon who 
tells you that he is very fond of music, though as a 
matter of fact he knows no more about it than the lady 
who frankly admitted she couldn't tell the difference 
between " God save the Weasel " and " Pop goes the 
King." 

I wrote " Absent yet Present " in 1879. On 12th 
November 1903, I received the following letter from 



186 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Messrs. Chappell & Co. I have just found it among 
some old papers 

" DEAR Miss WHITE, I have not the actual figures 
by me regarding the sale of your song " Absent, yet 
Present " at the sale of Messrs. Stanley Lucas, Weber, 
Pill, and Hatzfeld's copyrights at Messrs. Puttick & 
Simpsons, but to the best of my belief I bid on behalf 
of Messrs. Chappell & Co. up to 470 for the copyright, 
but I was outbid by Mr. Stanley Lucas who, I think, 
gave 600 for the song. 

" These figures could be verified by the auctioneers 
Messrs. Puttick & Simpson, Leicester Square. Yours 
faithfully, for Chappell & Co. Ltd., 

"E. GOODMAN." 

My days were very full just then. Hyde Park Gate 
was too far away from Hanover Square to make it 
possible for me to return there for meals, so I frequently 
lunched outside. Between the various classes I often 
went to Mr. Lucas's place and worked in one of the little 
rooms at the top of the house ; I was so often there 
that we got to know each other very well. In fact, we 
were quite fond of each other ! I also liked Mr. Weber, 
his partner, very much indeed. I felt at home in that 
little shop where they always gave me so kind a welcome. 
I almost loved it ! 

Those little top-rooms were the scene of many a 
jovial rendezvous with kindred spirits. What fun I 
have had up there ! It was in a little room whose 
windows looked into Bond Street that with one singer 
after another I rehearsed half the songs I wrote, that 
week after week I foregathered with my friends and 
made delightful plans. " Let's meet at Stanley Lucas's " 
were words that were constantly on their lips and mine. 

I remember distinctly how, in May or June, I loved 
the contrast of going down from my eyrie on the third floor 
into the gay and animated street below, with the 
knowledge that in five or ten minutes I also would find 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 187 

myself one of a delightful luncheon party in some charming 
house close by. I loved the combination of hard and 
serious work with a certain amount of relaxation in a 
really brilliant milieu, and, if contrast is the salt of life, then 
certainly I had nothing to complain of. 

That summer I went out a good deal, and after the 
season was over I was invited to several interesting 
country-houses ; they were all in the north of England. 
I think the first house I stayed at was Sedgwick Mary 
Wakefield's home in Westmoreland. I have such delicious 
recollections of my visits to Sedgwick that it is a joy to 
me to write about them. To begin with, I was fond of 
every member of the Wakefield family. It really was 
the happiest household imaginable. Mrs. Wakefield was 
American, but she had lived so long in England that she 
had completely identified herself with her adopted country. 
She was a beautiful and lovable woman, and it is no wonder 
that she was adored by her husband and family. Mary 
was the eldest of her seven children. Though in a way 
she was totally different to her own people (she had the 
artist's temperament to a quite unusual degree), she 
nevertheless got on splendidly with them. She loved and 
appreciated their qualities, and most certainly they loved 
and genuinely admired hers. I suppose it was because of 
this rare and beautiful understanding that the house was 
so delightful a one in which to pass a few weeks. I 
certainly spent some of the pleasantest hours of my life in 
the tower situated at the top of the house. Mary's " den " 
was in this tower, and a more attractive, a more fascinating 
little room I have never seen. She seemed to have packed 
away a miniature world within those four walls in which 
one wandered happily for hours together. 

The room was octagonal with quaint little windows 
commanding a splendid view of the surrounding country, 
and all round the walls were low bookcases ; never did 
I go to them without finding just exactly the sort of book 
I wished to read, for whatever was interesting whether 
new or old found its way sooner or later to those tightly 
packed shelves. Mary had many intimate friends among 



188 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

the interesting and celebrated people whose country 
homes were in the Lake Country. Ruskin was a friend of 
hers, so was Matthew Arnold, and at their houses she met 
many other delightful people who invariably attached 
themselves to her. Indeed, it was hardly possible to know 
her without being attracted to her rich and generous 
nature to the buoyant spirit that informed her whole 
being. Photographs of several of these friends stood on 
the broad shelves above the bookcases, many of them 
signed, with a few affectionate words written across them ; 
great bowls of beautiful flowers stood amongst them ; 
there were flowers everywhere, and the effect was enchant- 
ing. A beautiful little piano covered with music stood in 
the middle of the room and her musical library was as 
interesting as her literary one ; it was a perfect joy. I can't 
remember the colour scheme of the room, I can only 
remember the extraordinary attraction it held for me. 
There was something positively eloquent about it. I don't 
believe any imaginative person could have spent an hour 
in it without longing to know the woman whose tremendous 
vitality had been able to charge it with such an atmosphere. 
You felt it was the beloved retreat of one who had 
accumulated rare experiences, who had not only been to 
beautiful places, but who had adored them, who had lived 
a rich, full life in them with gifted people the sort of 
woman who could indeed have said, " Culture is not a 
substitute for life but the key to it." I always felt that 
Mary Wakefield possessed that magic key, that she realised 
more than any human being I have ever met the inexhaust- 
ible treasures that literally lie at our feet if we remove 
the scales from our eyes the scales that prevent us from 
seeing the glory, the beauty, that surrounds us on every 
side the tragic scales that force some of us so cruelly 
and persistently to dwell on the cramped enclosure of our 
own personal interests till we see nothing else, till we are 
like caged animals tramping desperately up and down our 
prison. 

The walls of this little room were covered with pictures. 
I think there were several Venetian scenes amongst 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 189 

them, for I seem to recollect a lovely little reproduction 
of a picture by Burne-Jones representing the Spirit of 
Dawn flying at break of day through the waterways of the 
Wonder-City. And I remember being singularly impressed 
by another reproduction of a picture I had never seen. It 
was by Rossetti, whose work was then quite unknown to 
me. It represented Mary Magdalene before her conversion 
making a triumphal procession through the town followed 
by a troup of adorers. She is radiant with beauty, her 
marvellous hair falls like a royal mantle about her body. 
To the right is a house, and through the barred window a 
face is visible it is the face of our Lord gazing with a look 
of unutterable sadness and pity at the scene in the street. 
I think I saw a replica of the original, or at all events 
a very beautiful copy, many years afterwards at Wilton, 
during the lifetime of George, Earl of Pembroke. Wilton 
was his country-place near Salisbury, and the picture fasci- 
nated me then as it had fascinated me many years ago. 

Strong contrasts ! How they set one thinking ! 
How they appeal to the imagination ! As I write, my 
thoughts wander to Florence to the Church of Santa 
Trinita, where, in a niche, stands a very different repre- 
sentation of Mary Magdalene. The statue carved in 
wood is the joint- work of Desiderio di Settignano and 
Bernardino da Maiano. Nothing is left of the famous 
beauty whose fame has lived through the ages ; gone 
are the beautiful lines of the body ; it is emaciated and 
gaunt from long fasting, the lovely eyes are dim with 
weeping, suffering is stamped on every feature, and, as one 
gazes at it, one almost feels as if one had no right to intrude 
on a sorrow so sacred, so profound, on a love born of a con- 
trition so intense, so limitless. After catching a glimpse 
of the unfathomable deeps of that heart, it is difficult 
to reconcile oneself to the paltry limitations of one's own. 

It was Mary Wakefield who made me realise what 
Italy could mean to one who loved her, for it was in that 
little room that I realised just exactly what it was that 
I had missed in my own disappointing first experience. 
It was there that once again I heard the heart of Italy 



190 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

beat audibly, that I heard her call, " Come back, come 
back, I have great gifts for you also. Never again shall 
you leave me with such disappointment in your heart, 
never, never again." 

How I longed to return ! 

But I had my work cut out in England for the time 
being, and it was my destiny to go to the other end of 
the world before recrossing the Alps. 

Two or three years before Mary died, I played her an 
Italian song I had written in Sicily to the words of 
Gabriele d'Annunzio. The song is called ' Isaotta 
Blanzesmano " (Isolde of the White Hand). I chose 
three verses out of a long poem, celebrating the loves of 
famous men and women Dante and Beatrice, Paolo 
and Francesca, Petrach and Laura, etc., etc. But the 
verses that set my imagination on fire were those in which 
the poet speaks of Isaotta. I saw one of those verses 
for the first time in the well-known novel by my dear 
friend, Robert Hichens, The Woman with the Fan, and it 
evoked a vision of beauty of romance that absolutely 
refused to leave me for days and days. 

In speaking of an imaginary song set to those words, 
the author says 

" You seemed to see a world of spread wings a world 
in which you can only dream and wonder, as when you 
look at the horizon line and pray for the things beyond." 

And I dreamed and wondered. And then I tried to 
write the music to that song. 

There is a garden I know that lies on the shore of the 
loveliest lake in Italy, where oleanders and magnolias 
grow almost to the water's edge. Mountains covered 
with chestnut trees shelter it lovingly from the winds, 
and an old wall hung with wreaths of trailing ivy hides 
moss-covered steps that lead through shady paths to 
the heights above. It is a garden where dark trees 
spread their branches over a green lawn where the grass 
grows happily as it chooses, where the roses bloom among 
the grass a garden where I have stood in the early 
dew-laden hours of a radiant summer morning and 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 191 

gazed across the shimmering waters at the lovely pro- 
montory in the distance, on which a white little village 
lies peacefully, as though it had fallen from heaven in 
its sleep, so softly, so gently, that it isn't yet awake ! 
a garden where I have sat drowsily through the hot and 
languorous hours of a July afternoon, almost hypnotised 
by the wonderful light in which mountains and lake were 
bathed, by the delicious smell of flowers with their subtle 
suggestion of a happiness beyond words, by the gentle 
caress of the soft and balmy air a garden where I have 
dreamed dreams, happy even when I awoke, because I 
faced a beauty, a reality, I loved. 

And when the glory of the sunset had faded into the 
pale mystery of the night, and that companioned by a 
million quivering stars, I looked down into the green 
waters of the lovely lake where the tinkle of the little 
bells attached to the fishermen's nets mingled occasionally 
with the melody of a far-away song that floated across 
the water from an invisible singer in an invisible boat, 
I understood ah, how well I understood why those who 
have known happiness in Italy can never recall that 
happiness, that " lull in the hot race," without a rush 
of feeling that, after years and years, can still bring the 
tears to their eyes. 



" Torna in fior di giovinezza 
Isaotta Blanzesmano 
Dice : Tutto al mondo e vano 
NeH^imore ogni dolcezza. 

Fanno Tore compagnia 
Alia bionda Blanzesmano 
Dicon : tutto al mondo e vano 
Nell' amore ogni dolcezza 

S'apra come rosa in fiore 
Alia gioia il cuore umano 
Poi, che tutto al mondo e vano 
Nell' amore ogni dolcezza." 

These were the words of that imaginary song, and as I 
dreamed and wondered, I conjured up a vision. 



192 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I saw a man in that garden, and his heart was asleep, 
dreaming. And in his dream he saw Isaotta Blanzesmano. 
Once more she returned to earth in the flower of her youth, 
and he heard her cry 

" Tut to al mondo e vano 
NelP amore ogni dolcezza." 

He saw the attendant Hours, symbolical of all man- 
kind, but represented by women, because the heart of 
woman has always accounted the world well lost for love, 
and they echoed her cry 

" Tut to al mondo e vano 
Nell' amore ogni dolcezza." 

And I saw him stir in his sleep, I heard his heart 
awake, I heard it quiver with life. I heard its passionate 
response to that call 

" S'apra come rosa in fiore 
Alia gioia il cuore umano." 

And I knew, as the vision faded from his sight, that 
he would dream no more pale dreams he would live 
live splendidly and love would spin the web from which 
are woven the immemorial days that are the gift of God 
to bestow as He thinks best. 

I remember that when I finished singing those lovely 
words to dear Mary Wakefield, I thought, " You must 
have known happiness in Italy." 

She was standing close to the piano, her eyes were 
dim with tears she tried to speak, and failed. There 
was another woman in the room, but she said nothing. 
Nor did I. 



CHAPTER XIV 

WINNING the Mendelssohn Scholarship had proved such 
an altogether delightful experience that I made up my 
mind to enter my name for another. This time it was a 
local affair, and took place in the concert-room of the 
R. A.M. It was a pianoforte scholarship for girls. I may 
as well say at once that I was not the successful candi- 
date, though I was one of the three students who were 
recalled after every one had played the piece selected 
for the occasion. (What it was I can't remember.) 
The examiners had agreed to differ with regard to our 
respective merits, and we were asked to go through the 
ordeal again. I behaved on this occasion like a horrid 
little boy who once visited us at Pendeford. One day 
at dinner he made a remark which made his neighbour 
laugh very heartily so heartily that my dear father 
asked him to repeat what he had said. The odious 
little monkey refused point-blank. 

" No, no, Mr. White," he said, " I never say a good 
thing twice." 

Well, I very seldom did a good thing once, and to 
do it twice was utterly beyond me. I was tired and 
nervous the second time and played less well, and the 
scholarship was, with perfect justice, awarded to one of 
the others. But something better than a scholarship 
awaited me this time ! That afternoon was a turning- 
point in my life, and I was to realise, what I have so often 
and often proved to be true in later years, that it isn't 
always apparent success that yields the richest results, 
and that what looks very like a failure may only be 
the forerunner of something far better than one has ever 
dared to hope for. 
13 



194 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Though an unsuccessful competitor, I was neverthe- 
less on the eve of an episode that was to lead me straight 
on to the high road to success, for among the examiners 
was the famous singer, Charles Santley, and it certainly 
is to him and to his generous and immediate championship 
that I owe my successful introduction to the real public. 
Of that I will speak a little later on. I remember per- 
fectly a little scene that took place after the competition 
at the door of the concert-room of the R.A.M. It was 
nearly dark, for it was still winter ; the students had 
already dispersed, and the examiners were just about to 
do so, after which I knew that the room would be locked 
up. I had lingered behind with a roll of music in my 
hand. Inside the roll was a copy of " Absent yet Present " 
and another of " Montrose's Love Song." It had been 
the aim and object of my life for months to get Santley 
to look at these songs. I felt perfectly certain they 
would suit him. That he would sing them as no one 
else on earth was capable of singing them, I was also 
convinced. I had heard him too often not to know 
what he could do with them ! As I stood near the door 
wondering whether I dare stop him on his way out, I 
thought of the words of my song 

" He either fears his fate too much, 

Or his deserts are small, 
Who dares not put it to the touch, 
To win or lose it all." 

All of a sudden I saw Signer Randegger, and at 
sight of him I took my courage in both hands. I had 
worked myself up to such a pitch of nervousness that I 
hardly dared move from my point of vantage near the 
door. I felt that if I deserted my post the great singer 
would be sure to choose that very moment to leave the 
room. Now, however, my old friend was close enough 
for me to be able to talk to him. 

" Oh, Signor Randegger," I said nervously, " do you 
think you could ask Mr. Santley if he would have a look 
at these two songs of mine ? " 

" Well," he answered, looking round, " but he is 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 195 

just going. They've been here for hours, you know, and 
must be wanting to get home." 

Just then I saw Santley approaching us. It was now 
or never. 

" But it wouldn't take him five minutes," I pleaded. 
" Oh do, do ask him ; it's a chance that may never 
occur again. Oh, dear old Rannie, be a brick and ask 
him." 

As I have said before, Signor Randegger had the 
kindest heart in the world. As Santley passed, he turned 
round and said 

" I say, Santley, there is a girl here who is dying to 
show you some songs she has written. Could you spare 
five minutes or so ? " 

" Why, of course I can," he answered kindly. " Is 
there any room close by where we could run through 
them ? " 

I felt suddenly as though the dark room were flooded 
with sunshine. 

" Let's go to my room," said Signor Randegger 
quickly; " it's here just round the corner." 

When we got there we found two girls who were 
waiting for their singing lessons. The professor told them 
he would attend to them presently, and then he said 

" Now, then, Maude " (he pronounced it Mode), 
" fire away." 

And I fired away for all I was worth ! 

By the little remarks and exclamations they both 
made while I played, I knew that all was going well 
more than well. And when I had finished, Mr. Santley 
turned to Signor Randegger and said something about 
the songs in Italian that made my heart beat with ex- 
citement and pleasure. I didn't speak Italian at that 
time, but I spoke Spanish, and many of the words in 
both languages are identical ! 

Then he turned to me 

" I shall sing both these songs next Monday night at 
St. James's Hall, and you must come and accompany 



196 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I nearly gasped. To have two of my songs sung by 
Charles Santley at one of the Monday Pops., the cele- 
brated Monday Pops, which were justly considered by 
far the most important concerts of chamber music in 
London ! I couldn't believe my ears ! It was more 
than I had ever dreamed of ! 

Dear old " Rannie " shook me warmly by the hand. 
He was delighted with the result of the interview. 

" Well," he said heartily, " you are a lucky girl and 
no mistake ! " 

" I am I am," I thought, in a tumult of excitement 
at this wonderful and unexpected denouement to the 
real business of the afternoon. As to the scholarship 
I had hoped to win it had simply vanished from my 
mind. I could think of nothing but the fact that Mr. 
Santley was going to sing my songs at the Monday Pop. 
that I was to play them for him (I who had never 
played at anything but little amateur concerts and our 
own students concerts), and that when I told dear Mr. 
Innes he would be almost as pleased as I was. He 
adored Santley's singing. I knew just exactly the way 
he would receive my news ! 

After I had thanked Mr. Santley again and again 
for his kindness, a rehearsal was arranged, and he took 
my name and address. 

" 1*11 come round to your place," he said, " and we 
will have a great go at both these songs." 

And then I said good-bye, but not before I had 
thanked and blessed " Rannie," to whom I owed this 
unique opportunity. I only hope from the bottom of 
my heart that I may ever have the chance of doing 
to other young artists one-half of the kind, good things 
that were done to me in my youth, for in looking back 
it seems to me that kindness was literally lavished on 
me. One hears a great deal about professional jealousy, 
etc. etc., but I have never come across anything but 
real and genuine kindness from almost every musician 
I have ever met; they have always given me a helping 
hand, always given me kind and encouraging words, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 197 

always been ready to try over my things or to get others 
to do so, and more than ready to sing and play at the 
concerts I have given from time to time. As to the 
occasions when any one has been sarcastic or disagreeable, 
they have really been so few and far between that I 
can hardly remember them. 

The Principal spoke to me about my interview with 
Mr. Santley at my next lesson. 

"Is it true," he said, "that Santley is to sing two 
of your songs at the next Monday Pop. ? " 

" Yes," I said, " it is quite true. He's going to sing 
4 Absent, yet Present,' and ' Montrose's Love Song,' 
and he has asked me to accompany him." 

I tried to speak quite simply, but I was feeling so 
proud and excited at being able to announce this fact 
that I couldn't quite disguise my feelings. 

I didn't really want to " show off " before the other 
students that would have been too utterly odious 
and yet that little note of exultation refused point-blank 
to keep quite within bounds ! 

I expect Old Mac knew exactly what I was feeling, 
for he laughed and said affectionately 

" Oh, you lucky young composer ! " and then we 
had our lesson as usual. 

Two or three days later Mr. Santley came round to 
Porchester Terrace, where I was living for the time being 
with my trustee and his family, as my mother was 
wintering at Nice, and our own house was let for several 
months. Never to my dying day shall I forget the 
way he sang " Absent, yet Present." I had indeed 
been right when I thought that no one living would ever 
be able to sing it like him ! He threw a fire, a passion, 
into the music that absolutely startled me. It was 
splendidly virile, splendidly strong. I had no idea 
that anything written by me could ever have sounded 
like that. Then he went through " Montrose's Love 
Song," which he sang with the same vigour, the same 
glorious sense of rhythm that he put into his interpreta- 
tion of " To Anthea." 



198 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I had always loved his singing, but when I heard 
my own music treated so superbly, it was an absolute 
revelation to me, and I realised the immense debt of 
gratitude that a composer must always owe the really 
great artist who throws himself with fervour into his 
work. After we had gone through both songs several 
times, he told me he was quite satisfied, and then he 
asked me to come to the artists' room at St. James's Hall 
on the Monday evening following, begging me to come 
rather early so as to run through the songs once more, 
if necessary, before going on to the platform. 

Mr. Innes and his eldest daughter came to that 
concert with me, and I think Mrs. Feilden accompanied 
them. They left me at the door of the artists' room, 
where I met Mr. Santley. After greeting me very 
kindly, he told me not to mind if he didn't talk to me, 
as he always liked to keep silent before going on the 
platform. I felt like an impertinent microbe for daring 
to be there at all ! It all seemed too strange to be 
true. 

I waited there for over half an hour while Herr Joachim 
and his colleagues played their quartet, and while Mr. 
Santley walked ceaselessly up and down with both my 
songs in his hands, evidently committing the words 
to memory. It seemed to me positively amazing that 
the greatest English singer living should be giving him- 
self so much trouble about anything written by an 
insignificant little student like myself. I had yet to 
learn that it is only the really great artist who never 
thinks any trouble too great when it is a question of 
carrying through even the smallest thing he has under- 
taken ! 

The quartet was drawing to a close, and Mr. Santley 
told me to follow him into the narrow passage furnished 
with benches, from which a flight of steps led on to the 
platform. Presently a perfect torrent of applause broke 
loose, and the players with their instruments came down 
the steps into the passage. There was an attempt at 
conversation, but the applause went on so persistently 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 199 

that they all had to go back. My heart beat furiously 
during this second wait. I wished the whole thing were 
over, and yet, somehow, I longed to go up ! But I never 
felt so nervous in my life. At last our turn came. As 
we walked up the steps I saw that the room was crowded 
there didn't seem to be a vacant seat in the place. 
The Prince and Princess of Wales with their suite sat in 
a front row by themselves, and in front of the Princess 
(Queen Alexandra) was a little table on which lay her 
bouquet and program. They all looked up as Mr. 
Santley walked on to the platform. He had a splendid 
reception, and at the sound of the applause I suddenly 
felt less frightened. Of course I knew it was all for him, 
for I was utterly unknown (I believe, but am not sure, 
that the words " Mendelssohn Scholar " were printed 
after my name on the program); still, the warmth 
of his welcome sent a glow through my veins. The songs 
were well received, but without any special signs of 
approval. The clapping, however, continued after we 
had reached the last step of the little staircase leading 
from the platform to the passage. And then Santley did 
a kind, a generous thing. Instead of returning to the 
platform to bow, as ninety-nine singers in a hundred 
would have done, he seized hold of my hand. 

" Come back with me," he said; " I am going to sing 
again." 

And how he sang the second time ! I am not quite 
certain which song he repeated he believed in them 
both. But so determined was he to give me my chance 
that he absolutely attacked the audience with the 
splendour of his singing, with the magnetism of his 
personality. It was like a tidal wave sweeping every- 
thing before it, and of course he carried the crowd away 
with him and won the day for me, for the song was re- 
ceived very differently the second time he sang it. I 
remember perfectly well feeling half frightened at the 
idea of going back to face that multitude of people whose 
applause, I thought, in no way justified my reappearance 
at all events. But of course I did as I was told. On 



200 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

how frail a thread one's fate sometimes hangs ! And how 
one remembers, how gratefully one remembers the hand 
that might have snapped it so easily, but that wove it 
into something strong and durable by a beautiful and 
generous impulse ! 

I owe whatever success I have had in my musical life 
to the way Santley championed my first attempts, and I 
shall never forget it. I should hate myself if I did ! 

He repeated both " Absent, yet Present," and " Mon- 
trose's Love Song " at St. James's Hall that same week 
on the following Saturday, and made a very great success 
with them. But it was "Absent, yet Present," that 
every one cared for. The other song had its little day 
and then disappeared, and I don't suppose any one re- 
members it now. The approval of the audience that 
flocked to the Saturday Pops, was well worth having. 
St. James's Hall was generally crowded on those occasions, 
not only with Londoners, fashionable and otherwise, but 
with masses of people who streamed in from the suburbs 
to hear the celebrated Joachim quartet party. Perhaps 
the hall was, as a matter of fact, rather too big for chamber 
concerts, but one didn't feel critically disposed when 
one was listening to that perfect quartet, or to the solos 
that were so often performed there by the greatest artists 
in the world. Never shall I forget a performance of 
Schumann's E flat quartet that I heard there for the first 
time and the way they played the divinely tender Andante 
Cantabile ! I remember feeling as if the heavens had 
opened when, towards the end of the second movement, 
the tender, lovely theme returned, floating like a water- 
lily on the waves of surely one of the most perfect accom- 
paniments with which a genius was ever inspired. One 
seemed to see two happy lovers united for ever, wandering 
through the fields of heaven ; one seemed to hear the 
words, " And God shall wipe away all tears from their 
eyes, and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow 
nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain." 

It was at one of those concerts that I heard Clara 
Schumann play her husband's romantically beautiful 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 201 

concerto in A minor. I suppose no one ever interpreted 
it quite as she did. How could it be otherwise ? Who 
ever loved and understood him in the same way ? In 
one of his letters to her long before they were married 
long before her father would consent to even an engage- 
ment he wrote to her a propos of one of his compositions 
that " whatever I may have put into it das wird mir 
meine Clara herawfinden." 

It is an enormous asset to know personally and inti- 
mately the creator of any work. Somehow it alters one's 
whole point of view. Things that one saw by the insig- 
nificant light of one's own intelligence are suddenly 
illuminated by that brilliant search-light, a real knowledge 
of the Creator's intention. What was merely a sketch in 
black and white becomes a glowing picture. It is depress- 
ing to think of the many treasures that undoubtedly lie 
buried deep in the masterpieces of the world, and that are 
only brought to light at long intervals by some great artist 
whose insight amounts to genius. 

Even a very humble composer like myself knows by 
experience how seldom it is that any one interprets a 
piece of music just exactly as one has conceived it oneself. 
It reallyjis Jthe rarest thing on earth. How often and 
often after successful performances of my own songs have 
not really clever musicians come up to congratulate me 
heartily on the way they have been sung, under the 
impression that there could not be two opinions on the 
subject ; and yet I have been secretly chafing under a 
cruel sense of disappointment, for it has seemed to me 
that the one thing necessary the subtle something that 
is the essence of the song has hardly been indicated 
has often been entirely absent ! 

But sometimes a singer crosses one's path who has 
the heart of a poet, and then, oh, the difference, the 
splendid difference ! No one ever sang those earlier 
songs of mine, " Absent, yet Present," " To Blossoms," 
44 Heureux qui peut Aimer," 44 When Passion's Trance," 
44 To Electra," and "The Devout Lover," like . Santley . 
The way he sang the closing phrase of the latter song 



202 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was so beautiful and touching that those who never 
heard it can hardly imagine the difference between 
his interpretation and that of every one else. He once 
wrote me during those first few weeks of our friendship 
a little note that I prized more than I can say. In it 
he said, among other things 

" Your young enthusiasm has roused to life the youth 
in me that was dead." 

I think many a middle-aged artist has felt a certain 
lassitude, a certain weariness, that has utterly vanished 
when brought into contact with a youthful tempera- 
ment which reminds him of his own young days. Santley 
was wonderfully kind to me. Sometimes after singing 
" Montrose's Love Song " he would say laughingly 

" You must tell me when your Montrose turns up, 
you know." 

There was something in Santley's voice that touched 
me to tears. I have seldom heard it in any other. It 
suggested youth fearless, passionate, enthusiastic youth. 
It also suggested a terrible capacity for suffering. The 
only singer in whose voice I have heard just that same 
ring is my dear friend Harry Plunket Greene, of whom 
I shall speak later on, for he is another singer to whom 
I owe a great deal. 

Whenever I hear even an echo of that sound in either 
the speaking or singing voice of any human being it 
undoes me. The years roll away. " Youth's sweet- 
scented manuscript" once more lies open; "the nightin- 
gale that in the branches sang" sings once again. 
Again I stand on the threshold of life, forgetful for a 
moment of the long years that separate me from those 
glowing days when I couldn't believe that I wasn't 
going to be gloriously happy some day, when I couldn't 
believe that suffering and disillusion and bitter disappoint- 
ment are the common lot, and that I certainly deserved 
no more than any one else. But blessed is the human 
being who, having seen happiness pass by his own door, 
reaches the early evening of his life without fainting 
by the way, and lives long enough to see the radiant 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 203 

figure pause and knock at the door of a dear child or a 
beloved friend. For him a star shines in the darkness, 
" still a garden by the water blows," and he realises 
with a thrill of unspeakable joy that his heart's desire 
is not always for himself. 

I became a Catholic in the autumn of that year on 
the 15th of September 1880. 



CHAPTER XV. 

SOME happy months followed the episode alluded to in 
the last chapter, and then there came the inevitable turn 
of Fortune's wheel. My dear mother's health began to 
fail ; money troubles cast their ugly shadows across our 
path, and we had to resign ourselves to the fact that it 
was no longer possible to keep on the house at Hyde 
Park Gate. I still remember the despair with which 
I heard that we might possibly have to live in Dulwich. 
I was absolutely miserable at the idea of leaving London, 
which I loved, and which was associated in my mind 
with so many happy days of work and pleasure. It 
seemed to me one might just as well bury oneself alive. 
However, Mr. Innes again came to the rescue, and asked 
me to come and stay at Porchester Terrace till a new 
house had actually been decided upon, and as I was still 
studying at the R.A.M. I was only too thankful to do so. 
Auntie Dora went to live with relations in the country, 
and mother and Emmie, with two of my little nieces 
(their mother, my eldest sister, had left them with us 
on returning to India), went to live in rooms till a satis- 
factory home should be found. 

It was a sad, a horrible winter. My mother's health 
went from bad to worse, and at last it was only too 
evident that she had not long to live. Mr. Innes, with 
several members of his family, was obliged to go to Chile 
on business, and though his wife did not accompany 
him, she also was going to the Continent during his 
absence. But they all begged me to stay on at Por- 
chester Terrace under the care of Mrs. Ramsay, their 
excellent and kind Scotch housekeeper. Fortunately, 
the rooms which my mother had taken were quite close 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 205 

to Porchester Terrace, and I was able to go there every 
day. Work was difficult under these circumstances. My 
mind was so distracted by the sense of coming disaster 
that I could not concentrate it upon my studies, and 
the sad hours I spent with my own people affected my 
health and spirits so much that soon I found it impossible 
to do anything except by fits and starts. It distressed 
me to see my mother laid up in dull and dreary lodgings. 
It seemed so cruel that she should have had to turn out 
of her charming little house when she was so wretchedly 
ill and weak. The future seemed to hold nothing but 
sorrow in store. My trustee came to me two or three 
days before sailing for South America and said 

" I am afraid your mother is very, very ill, and now 
I also must go away. Should anything happen to her 
you will not know what to do. I have put a certain 
sum of money in the bank for you which will enable 
you to act as you think best in case of her death, so on 
that score at least your mind can be at rest." 

He was far more like a father to me than a trustee, 
and I recollect how touched I was when he said, after 
telling me that he had remembered me in his will 

" I would like to take care of you even when I am in 
my grave." 

And how often have I not blessed him for that kind 
thought ! I have made many a hopeless muddle of my 
affairs, for I am a wretched business woman, and hate the 
very sight of an account book. And I am sorry to say 
that I let everything slide and just trust in a vague way 
that things may not go too hopelessly wrong. When 
they have done so it has always been my dear trustee's 
little legacy that has come to the rescue and set me on 
my feet again. How often have I not seemed to hear 
his kind voice saying 

" 1 should like to take care of you even when I am 
in my grave." 

And certainly his kind and tender wish has been 
fulfilled. 

My dear mother died a short time after he sailed. 



206 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I remained in London for two weeks or so, till I knew 
what was going to happen to my sister Emmie, who was 
still a minor. I loved her dearly ; we have been close 
friends all our lives, nor has any woman living been so 
much to me. Eventually she, and our two little nieces, 
who had been left in her care, went to live with my 
sister Dora, who was now settled in Birkenhead with 
her husband and children. 

I then made up my mind to go to Chile. My sister 
Annie was married out there; my trustee, I knew, was 
to be there for a year, and I was certain that they would 
give me a home till I could decide on something definite. 

My trustee's eldest son, George, who was about two 
years younger than myself, was just going to Valparaiso 
to join his father, so I would be able to travel with him ; 
and when Mr. Santley heard of our intended journey, 
he asked us if we would allow his son Michael, a boy of 
about sixteen, to accompany us. He had been ill, and 
the doctors had advised a long sea journey. 

I remember how bitterly I cried on leaving Europe. 
I, who was so fond of travelling, dreaded going away 
to the other end of the world, though under ordinary 
circumstances there is nothing I would have enjoyed 
better. But I didn't know what else to do. I felt lost 
without my mother and my trustee, for I had never 
been called upon to do a really practical thing in the 
whole course of my existence. I was always told 
laughingly, " That isn't your department," and I was 
only too willing to agree to anything that left me free 
to go my own way and follow my own bent. 

George Rose-Innes and myself, accompanied by Mr. 
Santley and his son, went to Paris, where, if I remember 
rightly, we met Mrs. Rose-Innes. We were only to 
spend a day or two there, and were then to join our 
ship, the Magellan, at Bordeaux. 

We were to go to Chile via Lisbon, the Cape Verde 
Islands, Rio Janeiro, Monte Video, and the Straits of 
Magellan. It had been arranged that we were to land 
at Lisbon, where the ship halted for one day. My 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 207 

mother's old friend Madame de Laboulaye had written 
to her son, Monsieur Paul de Laboulaye, who was French 
Minister in Lisbon, to tell him that we were on our way 
to Chile, and would be able to spend some hours on 
shore, whereupon he had invited us to lunch at the 
Legation. I remember how odd it seemed to me to 
think of lunching in Portugal, where I had never been, 
with M. Paul de Laboulaye, whom I had never seen, 
and winding up the afternoon by " popping over " to 
South America with two boys younger than myself, as 
if it were a tea-room round the corner. It seemed to 
me as if the Mad Hatter himself could hardly have 
arranged a stranger proceeding. 

We had a horrible journey from Bordeaux to Lisbon. 
The Magellan was one of the Pacific Steam Navigation 
Company's oldest ships, and had none of the comforts 
or conveniences of a modern steamer. I lay in my berth 
and wished I were a pair of boots or an umbrella, or 
anything else that rolls about a cabin without dreadful 
consequences. I never realised how wretched a sailor 
I was till I found myself on board that appalling old 
steamer, and to say that I was thankful when we reached 
Lisbon is indeed to put it mildly. I more than enjoyed 
the few hours we spent at the Legation ; it was such a 
blessed relief to get out of that evil-smelling old tub 
into a pretty house, and to sit down to a charmingly- 
served French dejeuner in a bright room. After luncheon 
we went for a drive. There was no time, alas ! to go to 
Cintra, but our kind host took us to see the church 
that was built to commemorate the discovery of the 
Cape of Good Hope by Vasco di Gama. The pillars 
of that church are so extraordinarily slender that one 
can't help wondering why the whole place hasn't 
collapsed years ago in one of the numerous earthquakes 
that have shaken Lisbon to its foundations. 

After about five days we reached St. Vincent. By 
this time the sea was calm and the weather magnificent. 
All day long we watched little negro boys dart in and 
out of the exquisite sapphire-coloured sea, diving for 



208 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

money or anything else one chose to throw into the 
water. It was so beautifully clear that one could see 
right down to the bottom. 

Then came ten or twelve interminable days of tropi- 
cal weather. The heat made me ill and weak, and I 
succumbed entirely to depression. I felt so sad, so 
unutterably sad at the sudden change in my life, that 
I sat for hours and hours in my deck-chair without 
stirring, simply gazing out from morning to night over 
the great waste of waters, unable to talk, unable to 
read, unable to take an interest in anything. One day 
some kind soul brought me an English novel. I opened 
it listlessly and began to read. There was a description 
of an English country house in it, a description of hounds 
meeting on a crisp winter day ; the scenery was described, 
the field, the coverts. I remember closing the book 
and leaning back, while a feeling of absolute despera- 
tion took complete possession of me. A vision of dear 
Pendeford had arisen in my mind. I saw my father 
and mother again, and remembered the gay and careless 
days when so many of us were happy little children, 
unconscious that so horrible a thing as death existed, 
with its anguish of eternal separation, on this earth at 
any rate. I thought of the dear ones I had left behind. 
I saw dear old Auntie Dora's kind blue eyes, the eyes 
that had always looked at me with such unfailing tender- 
ness, and terror struck at my heart. She was really old. 
What was to prevent her dying before my return ? The 
frightful uncertainty of life hit me like a blow, and 
imagination, so dear a friend, so terrible an enemy, 
tortured me. It tortured me for days and nights. The 
ship seemed to me like a horrible trap into which I had 
walked in a moment of mental aberration. The captain, 
a very kind man, told me afterwards that he had been 
seriously alarmed by the state I was in. He thought 
that I was not only very ill, but that my mind was 
affected. 

Now and again I made an effort to rouse myself, and 
then Itried to teach a few words of Spanish to young 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 209 

Santley. He was only to be a fortnight with us in 
Valparaiso, still, he thought he would like to understand 
as much as possible, and I helped him to the best of my 
ability. 

There were hardly any first-class passengers on board. 
Except an English naval officer and his wife, a young 
French couple and ourselves, I remember no one. The 
French couple bitterly regretted the fact that there 
were no other French people on board, and hated the 
journey almost as much as I did. 

One day the poor young wife could no longer restrain 
her feelings. 

" Quel voyage, mon Dieu, quel voyage ! Oh ce que 
Ton s'ennuie quand il n'y a que des Beefs a bord ! " 

That was her name for the English, and I remember 
blessing her for it, for it made me laugh. Her husband 
was equally bored. One day I heard him say dejectedly 

" Eh bien, puisqu'il n'y a rien a faire, je m'en, vais 
conter les moutons." 

One must indeed be hard up for occupation when one 
is reduced to counting sheep, while the perspiration runs 
down one's face like a miniature Niagara ! 

But one day there was a great stir on the ship, and 
though it was only four or five o'clock in the morning 
every one was on deck. Land was in sight. In an hour 
or two the steamer would be lying in the famous Bay of 
Rio Janeiro, and I would be able to see for myself whether 
it had been justly extolled so far above the Bay of Naples 
by my uncle and his friends eight years ago, on the occa- 
sion of our visit to Italy. 

No wonder they thought it beautiful ! I suppose it 
really is one of the loveliest scenes in the tropics. The 
bay is dotted with little islands covered with palms, which 
look as if they had floated into it from some marvellous 
region of languid splendour and enervating luxury. I 
could not imagine either living or dying in such a place. 
I once heard a man say of a piece of music 

" C'est comme un reve d'opium." 

Well, that is just the effect the Bay of Rio had on me. 
14 



210 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

For all their tremendous wealth of vegetation, those 
islands in no way suggested life life with its glorious 
possibilities, its fierce battles, its splendid victories, its 
sometimes equally splendid defeats. Nor did they 
suggest death death that to the Christian, at all events, 
suggests a supreme gathering up of all his forces to meet 
a tremendous event, an event that means translation, 
not annihilation, though of what nature he knows not. 

Those islands suggested dreams, beautiful dreams 
leading to a world of beautiful shadows. To me the Bay 
of Rio is like an exquisite body without a soul ; the appeal 
is entirely to the senses. No doubt there is some such 
appeal in the Bay of Naples, but it doesn't end there ; 
there is an appeal to the heart, to the memory, to the 
mind, that is like a cry of joy. He who has heard it 
and understood it will never be able to forget it, never. 
Above the din and confusion of the world, that cry will 
reach him; it is music in his ears, music that sings of a 
glorious past, of an exquisite present, music that expands 
his soul, music that in sorrow and disappointment can 
soothe and console him as none other can. That is the 
music that fills the air from Monte Rosa to Etna for him 
who has ears to hear ! 

I had not then read Sir Rennell Rodd's lovely little 
book, " The Violet Crown." I don't think it was written 
till some years later; but oh, how some of those poems 
would have appealed to me that day ! 

Of course we went on shore to see the town of Rio. 
There was a market-place close to the landing-stage. It 
was crowded by negroes ; the men were only half dressed, 
and the women wore nothing but cotton skirts and 
beautifully embroidered chemises, that showed their 
glistening black necks and arms. All sorts of tropical 
fruits lay piled on little stalls. I remember walking 
languidly through the crowd with my two companions. 
I must evidently have looked very tired and ill, for all of 
a sudden I felt a touch on my arm. A kind old negro 
with a little straw chair in his hand begged me to rest in it ; 
then he fetched two oranges magnificent ones and 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 211 

insisted on presenting them to me he absolutely refused 
to be paid. I recollect feeling quite tender over that old 
negro, and wondering, as I have wondered a thousand 
times, at the beauty, the irresistible charm of real kind- 
ness. 

We paid a visit to the Botanical Gardens, and saw 
the magnificent avenue of royal palms ; then we wandered 
about the narrow streets of the town, gazing into the 
wonderful jewellery shops, and at the extraordinary 
feather flowers, butterflies, and beetles that are made 
into ornaments for personal wear. The people we met 
in the streets had all the same parchment-like skin, the 
same shrivelled-up appearance, the effect, of course, of 
the fierce heat. We did not visit Tijuca, the beautiful 
summer resort high up in the hills, where a delicious 
hotel, with a swimming bath, lies buried in palms 
and banana trees, among which brilliant and enormous 
butterflies fly in and out all day long. That was reserved 
for the home journey. 

We returned to the ship towards evening and slept 
on board. Next day we started for Monte Video, where, 
owing to the roughness of the sea, we did not go on shore. 
Many of the passengers had left the ship ; the Argentine 
Republic was their goal. How I envied them ! We had 
another fortnight at sea to get through, and those last 
days were wearisome and horrible beyond description. 
The weather became colder and colder, greyer and greyer ; 
the sea was always rough ; the wind howled incessantly, 
and I was so ill that I was quite unable to leave my 
cabin. Oh, the horrors of those last days on board ! 
At last we reached the Straits of Magellan. If we had 
reached Paradise I could hardly have been more thankful. 
It was perfectly smooth inside the Straits, and I was able 
to get up and go on deck. It was very cold, but there 
was something grand, I thought, in the snow and ice- 
covered mountains past which we steamed for two whole 
days. The Straits of Magellan cannot, however, be 
compared for beauty with the Norwegian fjords; they 
have none of their romantic charm and poetry. There 



212 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

is something stern and repellent about them that makes 
me shudder when I remember them. I can conceive of 
nothing more frightful than to be exiled to such a region. 

Shortly before leaving the Straits I heard a great sound 
of hammering. I asked what was the reason of it, and was 
told that they were nailing down various things in the 
saloon, as they anticipated the usual storm on passing out 
of the Straits. Rounding Cape Pillar, they said, was 
always a serious matter. My heart sank within me. I 
only wished they could have nailed me into my berth. 
Anything more miserable than trying to avoid being 
tossed out of one's berth, for hours and hours together, 
feeling horribly sea-sick into the bargain, it is difficult to 
conceive. However, I reflected with infinite relief that 
we would soon be at our journey's end. Eight days more 
and the whole thing would be over ! Had I known the 
horrors of a long sea journey I should certainly have felt 
like a little Belgian girl I once knew. She was taken to a 
place she hated. I happened to be there, and I heard her 
say with a deep sigh (her French was anything but perfect) 

" Si j'aurais su, j'aurais pas venu ! " 

Before reaching Valparaiso, we landed at a place in the 
south of Chile called Lota, where there is an immense 
property belonging to Seiiora Cousino, one of the richest 
women in the world. We spent some time wandering 
about her curious mountain garden, which was open to 
the public, and there I saw some llamas for the first time, 
pretty, graceful little animals. But I didn't care for the 
garden, which was rather artificial. 

At last the long-wished-for day arrived, when we were 
told to pack up our traps, as we would be in Valparaiso 
towards eleven o'clock next morning. I had sent a cable 
to Mr. Innes to tell him I was coming, and felt certain that 
he and my sister Annie would be at the landing-stage to 
meet us. What I did not expect, however, was that they 
would come and fetch us in a charming little launch. 
A young naval officer, a friend of ours, who had known 
us in England, had had this happy idea, and had received 
permission to take them out to meet the steamer on the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 213 

launch belonging to the man-of-war to which he was 
attached. 

Oh, how glad I was to see their dear familiar faces ! 
I felt safe once more. That dreadful feeling of loneliness 
vanished almost at once ! My sister's home was a little 
way out of Valparaiso, on a hill called the " Cerro Allegre," 
but my trustee lived in a delightful old Spanish house in 
the town, in the " Calle de la Victoria." It was destroyed, 
and the whole street, almost the whole town was destroyed, 
in the terrific earthquake of 1906, but it will always live 
in my memory. 

I shall never forget the vivid impression made on me 
by the Bay of Valparaiso. It has been painted by 
Whistler. His picture is a night view, but it is beautiful 
at any time, to my mind. It is flanked on one side by the 
superb range of the Cordillera, on which the snow lies 
eternally. The great Aconcagua, which is sometimes 
visible, stands supreme even among those giant mountains, 
and suggests strength amounting to absolute splendour. 
The bay itself is connected in my mind with a peculiar 
glitter, a tremulous brilliancy which I have never seen 
equalled anywhere. In the early morning, when the sun 
shines upon its waters, the effect is dazzling. There is 
something almost intoxicating in the vision of the sparkling 
waves, which seem to dance throughout the live-long day 
in a blue ecstasy of delight. 

But how good it was to be on " terra firma " again ! 
How good after the dark and terrific desolation of the 
Straits of Magellan to find oneself once more in the sun, 
surrounded by gay crowds of people, and, best of all, by 
dear ones ! It was like escaping from prison into the happy 
world again. 

I enjoyed everything that day. To begin with, there 
were no tiresome formalities about the luggage. I think 
we had to thank the kind little naval officer now an 
admiral for that boon ; and instead of being detained for 
hours at the Custom-house, we drove straight to the Calle 
de la Victoria, where my sister Annie was to lunch with us. 

I think the first view of Mr. Innes's house made me 



214 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

realise more than anything else that I was indeed in a 
different continent the rooms were lofty and large ; but 
what delighted, what enchanted me, was the large " patio " 
round which they were built. I had never been in Spain 
then, and had never seen the exquisite architecture of 
many of the houses in Seville. Still, this house, which 
must, I imagine, have been an old Spanish one, built in the 
time when Chile was still a Spanish colony, had a distinct 
charm of its own. A fountain played in the middle of 
the square, a fountain surrounded by orange trees and 
large floripondia bushes, these latter were laden with 
curious white flowers that looked like bells ; there were 
other semi-tropical trees and plants whose names I can't 
remember, and beneath them were arranged beds of other 
brilliant hued flowers. The smell of roses, heliotrope, 
and a peculiarly fragrant jessamine filled the soft air 
it is a smell so unforgettable, so delicious, and I lived 
with it so many months, that even now, after thirty 
years, it can waft me in one second to the shores of the 
Pacific. A strange, a far-away feeling steals over me, and 
once more the Past holds me in its mysterious embrace. 
I remember with what delight I saw a humming-bird 
for the first time. As it flitted in and out the flowers of 
the sunny patio it seemed to me as emblematical of the 
Southern Hemisphere, as the brilliant Southern Cross 
that shines at night amidst a million other stars in the 
dark blue sky. 

Even the food that was served at luncheon that day 
the " almuerzo," as it is called out there made me realise 
that eight thousand miles lay between England and 
ourselves. The very aspect of the table was different. 
So was Celestino, the swarthy, nice-looking little butler 
who waited upon us. Celestino was a character. He had 
a way of announcing visitors that was priceless. One 
day he informed my trustee that " Someone " had been 
to see him. 

" A man or a woman ? " inquired Mr. Innes. 

Celestino intimated that it was not a man. 

" Well, then, I suppose it was a lady ? " 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 215 

Celestino shook his head. 

" Good gracious, what has been to see me ? " 

" Senor," answered Celestino mysteriously, " it was 
a half-hair lady ! " 

The word he actually used was " Medio pelo." People 
touched with the tar-brush were originally labelled 
" medio pelo," but in Chile the word is now applied to 
would-be ladies and gentlemen very much the reverse of 
the real thing. 

However, to return to my first luncheon in Chile. 
The piled-up dishes of fruit, some of which were unknown 
to me, were all protected by wire covers to prevent the 
flies getting at them, and there were strange dishes which 
I had never seen though I had heard of them. How 
delicious they were ! I am sure that any one who has 
ever been to Chile will agree with me in thinking that 
the food one gets there is very difficult to beat, both as 
regards its quality and the way it is dressed. 

" Casuela " and " Carbonada " are two standing 
dishes, both extremely savoury; the first is a sort of 
soup made with chicken and rice, and coloured red with 
an ingredient called " Color." There is also a delectable 
soup in which float pieces of golden pumpkin, rice, Indian 
corn, potatoes, and goodness only knows how many other 
good things. " Empanadas " and " Humitas " are other 
delicious dishes. The first consists of shells of fairy -like 
pastry, and is stuffed with minced meat, raisins, and hard- 
boiled eggs; the second, of Indian corn, which is served 
piping hot in its own leaves. 

And what vegetables grow there ! The asparagus is 
positively gigantic, and its flavour enough to rejoice the 
palate of the greatest gourmet alive. As to the pumpkins, 
I feel perfectly certain that Cinderella's famous specimen 
must have been imported from Chile by a wave of her 
godmother's fairy wand, for those that grow there are 
certainly quite worthy of being transformed into a 
beautiful coach-and-four ! As to the fruit, I have never 
tasted any to be compared to it. The grapes are famous, 
and the raisins from which they are made, the " Pasas 



216 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

de Huasco," more famous still. Such greengages, peaches, 
raspberries, melons, sandillas (water-melons), pome- 
granates, figs, I have never seen anywhere ; and, of course, 
one often sees tropical fruits that are brought down from 
Peru, such as the delicious custard-apple, etc. The 
Panquehue wine is almost the most perfect light wine I 
have ever tasted; and as I am on the subject, I must 
mention the celebrated " Chicha," a wine that is much 
drunk all over the country, and which is made both of 
grapes and also of apples. 

Yes, that first luncheon on shore refuses to depart 
from my greedy memory ! I ate some crisp rolls and 
fresh butter with a feeling of positive joy, and when later 
on I poured some delicious fresh milk into my tea instead 
of the horrible condensed stuff which had been the only 
thing obtainable for the last six weeks, well well ! ! ! 

Of course I went to see my sister Annie the next day, 
and renewed my acquaintance with her husband and two 
jolly little boys. We then arranged that I was to stay 
till the following spring in Chile, spending every alternate 
fortnight at one or other of her houses. In this way I 
saw a good deal that interested me. The Rose-Innes's, 
whose mother was a Chilian, naturally saw a great deal 
more of Chilian life than most of the English colony who 
lived on the two hills near the town, the Cerro Allegre 
and the Cerro de la Concepcion. Personally, I have 
always thought it a great pity that English residents 
abroad keep so very much to themselves ; it is really 
absurd to cut oneself off so deliberately from the people 
in whose country one has elected to dwell. No other 
nation does this to the same extent as ourselves, and 
most certainly it is we who are the losers. 

In Chile there is no earthly reason to do so. The 
Chilians are the most hospitable and generous people in 
the world. They give one the warmest, the kindest 
welcome from the very moment one is introduced to them. 
To be the guest of a Chilian lady or gentleman means 
that everything he or she possesses is put absolutely at 
your disposal, and when they tell you that their houses, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 217 

their servants, their horses, are "a la disposicion de 
Usted," the words are meant sincerely and in perfect 
good faith. I speak from experience, for when I have 
been a guest in a Chilian house I have been treated with 
a courtesy, a kindness, a consideration that it is impossible 
to beat, and very hard to equal. 

I recollect the extraordinary impression made upon 
me the first time I went to Mass at the church of La 
Merced. Hats are strictly tabooed. Every woman wears 
a manto, a thin black shawl made of nun's veiling that 
is often very becomingly draped round the head and 
shoulders; she also carries her own little prayer-carpet 
in her hand, at least she did in my day. The effect of 
hundreds of kneeling figures swathed in black is really 
solemn. But what certainly was not solemn, what was 
really comical, was the selection of music that was some- 
times played during Mass or Benediction. Tunes from 
the Mikado and Pinafore were thought perfectly suit- 
able, and one repented of one's shortcomings to the 
gay strains of polkas and galops. One day when I was 
feeling absolutely indignant at the horrible discrepancy 
between the sacred words that had been said at the 
altar and the cats' -concert that had accompanied them, 
and just as I was about to give my opinion on the subject 
very plainly indeed, I was reduced to silence by a poor 
woman one of the servants, I believe who said with 
a happy little sigh : " Ay, que linda esta musica ! Da 
tanta devocion ! " l I realised on that occasion what I 
have realised very often since : true charity really consists 
in a heroic and persistent determination to sit in your 
stockinged feet from morning till night, ready at a 
moment's notice to take a flying leap into other people's 
shoes. 

As I was in deep mourning, I naturally led a very 
quiet life. After I had been a few weeks in Chile I went 
with my sister and her four children to her country 
place, " Placilla," which was about ten miles from 
Valparaiso. It was a straggling, picturesque sort of 

1 " What lovely music ! How devout it makes one feel ! " 



218 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

bungalow, buried among tall poplar trees. A low 
verandah, ran round the front of the house and there was 
a wild garden at the back. I loved the place. I didn't 
do a stroke of work for months. I bought a guitar on 
which I played for hours at a time, and, of course, I picked 
up no end of strange little songs and samacuecas (the 
samacueca is the national dance) from huasos (country 
people) in the neighbourhood. There is a curious noise 
that is often heard towards night-time in a Chilian village. 
It is seldom indeed that some member of the family 
does not play the guitar, and often, in the cool of the 
evening, you will see dusky, half Indian-looking people 
seated just outside the door of their ranchos with their 
instruments on their knees. They do not always pluck 
the strings ; sometimes they take the notes of a chord 
with the left hand while they hit the strings with their 
closed fingers to the rhythm of the samacueca ; the 
faint chords struggle to make themselves heard, but are 
almost drowned by the persistent noise made on the 
lower part of the instrument by another member of the 
family who beats time with his knuckles. When a great 
many people are playing and " tambureando " singing 
at the same time and interrupting their song with cries 
of " Viva, Viva " and " Ay-ay, Ha-yai," while a man 
and woman dance opposite each other, waving hand- 
kerchiefs, the woman encouraging the man to pursue 
her, the man nothing loth, the result is distinctly at- 
tractive and picturesque. I have seen the samacueca 
exquisitely danced. My cousin and brother-in-law, 
Edmund White, who was born out there, danced it 
remarkably well, and on one occasion danced it, I don't 
know how many times in succession, for Don Carlos, the 
Spanish Pretender, when he visited the country years and 
years ago. 

" Bailamos una cuequita " is generally suggested at 
any gathering of friends, especially in the country, and 
a charming wind up it is to a gay afternoon or evening. 

During a visit I once paid to some Chilian friends in 
Santiago I had an amusing experience They had in- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 219 

vited a wonderful guitar-player a fat old woman who 
arrived swathed in a " manto " with a guitar almost as 
big as herself. But they had also invited a young girl 
called Nieves Fernandez, and anything more enchanting 
than her dancing it has never been my lot to witness. I 
well understood the feelings of Don Carlos, and like him 
I begged her to repeat the dance again and again. She 
really floated about the room like a feather ! A song is 
always sung during the dance, and the dancers move 
backwards and forwards according to the verses. Before 
winding up, a verse is often improvised in honour of the 
guest of the evening, and it always begins with the fol- 
lowing words " Que viva la Senora " (or Senorita, as 
the case may be) . . . and then the name of the guest is 
mentioned. On this occasion I was playing the role 
of " distinguished foreigner " ! I had been asked a 
great many questions about England by the fat old 
guitar-player, who was also a singer among other things 
she asked me if I had ever seen an English lord ? 

She was very much impressed when I told her that 
I had not only seen, but had actually spoken to several 
of these exalted beings. I can't imagine the process that 
went on in her brain for the next ten minutes, but after 
that time I was told that a special song was to be sung in 
my honour. My amusement can be imagined when she 
wound it up by singing 

" Que viva las Miss Lord White ! " 
only she pronounced it 

'< La Miss Lor Why ! " 

Riding was a perfect joy in Chile. I don't know 
what it may be now, but when I was there some thirty 
years ago, one rode across country wherever one pleased. 
There were no tiresome hedges to prevent one galloping 
right away to the Andes if one chose. My sister's cook, 
a wizened diminutive woman of about fifty, who looked 
seventy, used to mount me on a little horse on which I 
felt I could have travelled round the world, so gently, so 
smoothly, did he canter along. Once with a party of 



220 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Chilian friends I crossed a shallow, but broad river on 
horseback. I was more fortunate than my sister Emmie, 
whose horse on a similar occasion lay down and rolled 
in the river it was a dreadful moment, and she was 
nearly drowned. During the struggle the horse kicked 
her in the face ; and how she escaped death is a marvel 
to me. 

I remained about ten months in Chile, and on the 
whole I enjoyed it. One evening, returning home from 
my ride, I saw a little star nestling in the curve of the new 
moon. It reminded me of Shelley's poem " To Mary," 
and I set it to music there and then. I hardly ever hear 
it sung without recalling that lovely evening under the 
shadow of the great Andes. I think it was the only 
song I composed while I was in Chile. But I collected 
a great many airs and dances of the country, and after 
my return to England they were published as a piano- 
forte duet by Messrs. Boosey & Co. 

It was in the latter end of February, accompanied by 
my trustee, his three daughters, and Mr. Patrick Young, a 
delightful young Irishman, and quite the handsomest man 
I have ever seen in my life, that we all embarked for 
England. What a different journey it was this time ! my 
trustee, knowing what a shocking sailor I was, actually took 
a cabin for me that was meant to hold four people it was 
one of the most beautiful on the ship. I was, as usual, 
obliged to lie up during the whole journey ; but this time 
I wasn't lonely. Mr. Innes sat with me by the hour so 
did Pat, and together we wrote a book ! Such a book ! 
It was intended to be a skit on Ouida. Pat wrote to my 
dictation and made occasional priceless suggestions, and 
we both laughed over our noble work till the tears ran 
down our faces and our eyes looked like boiled goose- 
berries ! Pat was certainly the most delightful and 
sympathetic secretary it is possible to imagine. His sense 
of humour was Irish ; and what more can I say ? We 
introduced into this literary masterpiece a funny little 
Chilian characteristic over which we giggled like two 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 221 

hopeless young idiots ! The Chilians occasionally pro- 
nounce their B's like V's, and vice versa. The result is 
sometimes extremely funny, and is really comical when it 
is done in speaking English. To be asked suddenly at 
dinner whether you prefer " Veef to Beal " is rather 
startling, and makes one long to say, " Thanks, I never 
eat either I am a Begetarian." 

When our story was finished Pat read it to the 
Captain, who was a great ally of ours. He laughed over 
it almost as much as we did, and quoted it at meals till 
the passengers were positively furious. Poor Mr. Innes 
was so sick of hearing extracts from our inane book that 
he forbade us even to mention the fact of its existence. 
But the Captain, on whom he could lay no commands, 
already knew long sentences by heart, and at last the 
situation became comical to the last degree. Did a 
round of beef make its appearance at dinner, there was 
an ominous silence. Mr. Innes frowned in company 
with other middle-aged passengers, while his daughters 
and Pat didn't dare look at each other, and sat with 
stony faces, biting their lips and glaring into their 
respective plates. 

They might as well have tried to ladle out the 
Atlantic Ocean with a fork as to stop the yell of laughter 
that always followed after a minute or two. " Veef " 
was written in gigantic letters on the face of every person 
at table as clearly as " Mene, Mene, Tekel " was written 
on the walls of Nebuchadnezzar's banqueting hall. 

For weeks after I arrived in England I received 
postcards from Pat, which were brought to me on a 
silver salver by a solemn English butler, as we sat in the 
drawing-room after dinner. When I saw his handwriting 
on the back I didn't dare read it, if Mr. Innes were in 
the room. I knew far too well what Pat had to say to 
me it was always the same thing 

" Which do you prefer, Veef or Beal ? Personally 
I much prefer Vacon." 

The morning post would bring another card (this 
sort of thing) 



222 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" On the whole I'm not sure that Vaked Veans 
doesn't veat voth." 

That summer I happened to go to a large party at 
No. 4 St. James's Square, the town house at that time 
of Lady Cowper. A young man was brought up to be 
introduced to me, and to my speechless amazement, 
before he said a word, he quoted at length a passage 
from the famous work. 

" Oh yes," he said. " I know all about The Krux's 
Doom (that was the title of our book), Pat has told me 
all about it." 

He was Lord Frederick Hamilton ; he and Pat had 
been at Harrow together, and Pat, during the intervals 
he could spare from the sweet Irish girl he subsequently 
married, found nothing better to do than to " make 
propaganda " for our joint inspiration, and his old 
schoolfellow was his first disciple. 

I saw Pat the other day in London. He is as 
attractive and handsome and kind as ever, and he told 
me a delicious story. I hope it isn't a chestnut, but 
I'll risk that. 

He told me that an old Irish woman who was seated 
opposite two ladies in a London omnibus, heard them 
discussing the watering-places at which they had passed 
the summer. Both places, they declared, had been 
completely spoiled for them by the presence of a great 
number of objectionable Irish people. The old woman 
listened to the abuse of her countrymen quite quietly, 
but when she got up to leave, she looked them straight 
in the face 

" If it's the Oirish ye'll be objecting to," she said, 
" go to hell, ladies ! ye'll find no Oirish there ! " 

If that is really the case I shall certainly do my 
very best to go to Heaven. 



CHAPTER XVI. 

WE had hardly been three months in England before 
my dear old Auntie Dora fell seriously ill. She was 
living at that time in Birkenhead, at the house of my 
Uncle Fred Harrington. Emmie was also living there 
with our two little nieces. My uncle's wife, a beautiful 
and lovable woman of whom we were all exceedingly 
fond, had begged her to make her home with them for 
the present, as for various reasons it had not been possible 
for her to continue living with my sister Dora, to whom 
she had gone immediately after my mother's death. I 
was living at Porchester Terrace with my trustee when 
I received the news of her illness. I need hardly say I 
went at once to see her ; but I felt quite sure from the 
very first that it was impossible for her to recover, and 
I immediately made up my mind to stay with her to 
the end. They were sad days, but oh, how thankful I 
was that she had not fallen ill while I was at the other 
end of the world ! I tried to fill up the hours during 
which I was not allowed to be in her room, with work ; 
there is nothing like it when one is sad or distressed ; 
of course it is difficult, frightfully difficult, to collect 
one's thoughts under some circumstances ; it requires 
a good deal of courage even to make up one's mind to 
go to one's room, with a firm determination to try and 
fix one's mind deliberately on something far far away 
from what is tormenting one's heart. But it can be 
done, and only those who have sought refuge in work 
in times of dreadful distress, can testify to its wonderful 
and beneficial influence ; there is nothing like it, and 
the reward is out of all proportion to the effort made 
in the first instance. For work is a noble tonic, and 



224 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

tones and braces the nerves when everything else has 
failed to do so. 

One morning, before I had finished dressing, Emmie 
came to my room with a handful of letters forwarded 
from London. At that time I received a great many 
letters from people unknown to me, almost all of them 
containing verses which they begged me to set to music. 
In most cases they were absolute doggerel, and at last, 
I am sorry to say, I often put them aside after merely 
glancing at them to make sure they were not letters from 
friends. On this occasion I opened one of the envelopes 
and said impatiently, " Oh, another set of these eternal 
verses," and threw them on to the floor, without even 
reading them through. Fortunately for me my sister had 
remained in the room. 

" May I have a look at them ? " she said, picking up 
the sheet of paper. 

I said, " Yes, of course," and went on doing my hair. 

She read the verses and then handed them to me. 

44 1 believe you could do something with this," she 
said. " I like it it's far better than what they usually 
send you ; it's really quite different." 

44 Let's have a look," I said, holding out my hand for 
the sheet of paper. 

It was indeed a good thing for me that my sister had 
picked it up and read the verses, for they were written 
by Walter Herries Pollock, and the song enclosed was 
44 The Devout Lover." 

As far as I can remember, I set the poem to music 
that same day it appealed to me there were some 
lines I really loved in it. 

" Not mine to sit and sing my love in idleness." 
I liked that, and I loved the line 

" The thousand beauties that I know so well." 

I thought of endearing and lovable traits that I myself 
knew 44 so well," and I tried with all my heart and soul 
to express my enthusiastic appreciation of them. 

When the song was finished, I recollect playing it over 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 225 

very, very softly so as not to disturb my aunt, and then 
I called Emmie, and played it again for her, without 
opening the cover of the piano, and keeping down the 
soft pedal from beginning to end. I loved to have my 
sister's opinion about my compositions she was really 
musical ; she had a strong love of beauty in every shape 
and form, and instinctively knew what one was aiming 
at. And she played very well herself. Her touch on 
the piano was really beautiful. I remember dear old 
Mr. May saying to me, after hearing her, " Ah, if you 
only had your sister's touch, what a difference it would 
make in your playing." 

I don't know how she managed it, but I have heard 
her play on a veritable tin-kettle of a piano, which I have 
mistaken for quite a passable instrument till I have 
tackled it myself, and then oh, the difference ! 

Auntie Dora died a few days later. I felt her death 
dreadfully. It was quite impossible to know her without 
loving her and longing to protect her. She aroused this 
feeling in me more than any one I have ever known. She 
was tenderness incarnate ; any one more innocent, more 
guileless, more beautifully good it is impossible to imagine. 
She was never married. In her youth she loved, and I 
believe was engaged to, a young Spaniard. He was 
drowned when she was only twenty -two or twenty-three, 
and from that time her hair became quite white. 

I returned to London after the funeral, and dear 
Mr. Innes, who had been devoted to her, and knew better 
than any one how much I felt her loss, suggested a visit 
to the Continent towards the end of the season. He 
thought it would give me something to look forward to in 
the meantime. One of his married daughters lived in a 
pretty country place near Hamburg, and he proposed 
that we should stay there for a fortnight, and pay a 
flying visit to Dresden to see the beautiful picture- 
gallery. I was only too glad to agree to this plan. 

Just before my aunt died, I received a letter from 
Lady Bective, to whom I had been introduced in West- 
moreland, by Mary Wakefield. She told me that the 
15 



226 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Princess of Wales (Queen Alexandra) was going to tea 
at her house, and had expressed a wish to hear me play 
some of my songs. I was very disappointed that the 
invitation should have come just when it did, for natur- 
ally I would have liked to accept it ; but nothing in the 
world would have made me leave Auntie Dora, and I 
wrote and explained how matters stood. 

Before we went to Hamburg, I composed the music 
to a poem of Shelley's, " When Passion's trance is over- 
past." I recollect writing almost the whole of that song 
between the first and second dinner-bell ; and well do I 
remember the feverish haste with which I scribbled down 
the melody, and dotted down chords here and there to 
remember the harmonies of the accompaniment, for 
the whole song had suggested itself to me so quickly, 
that I felt it might evaporate equally rapidly ! Needless 
to say, I was late for dinner. My trustee was a very 
punctual man, but when I told him what I had been 
doing, he forgave me on the spot. 

The first person with whom I tried over " The Devout 
Lover," and " When Passion's Trance " (which were com- 
posed within a few days of each other), was Edith Santley 
(now Mrs. Robert Lyttelton). She was Mr. Santley's 
eldest daughter, and had inherited a good deal of his 
temperament. She certainly had every right to a tem- 
perament, for her mother was a Kemble, a daughter of 
John Kemble, the celebrated philologist, and through 
her mother she was related to the great actress, Mrs. 
Scott-Siddons, whose famous portrait as " The Tragic 
Muse " is one of the chief art treasures of Grosvenor 
House. Edith's voice was small, but she sang with 
astonishing fire and passion, and she had the same 
splendid sense of rhythm as her celebrated father. It 
was at their house in Upper Hamilton Terrace that one 
afternoon we rehearsed the songs. I had given her both 
MSS. a few days previously. I hadn't been there more 
than a few minutes when she said to me 

" As I was singing ' The Devout Lover ' yesterday, 
papa came into the room. ' What's that you have got 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 227 

hold of ? ' he said. I told him it was a new song of 
yours, and he said, ' That isn't a song for little girls 
that is a song for me. 5 ' 

That it was a man's song was, of course, undeniable, 
and I was more than delighted to think he wished to 
appropriate it. While we were still rehearsing he came 
into the drawing-room, and taking up the MSS. of " The 
Devout Lover " he sang it straight through. It was the 
final phrase of each verse that he liked so much, and that 
he sang so magnificently : 




The thou - sand beau - ties, the thou - sand beau - ties that I 
rail 




know, that I know so well. 



He said the phrase had life in it, or something to that 
effect. I remember the thrill of excitement that went 
through me at the bare idea of his thinking that I had 
written something that might last. Subsequently he 
sang " The Devout Lover " throughout the length and 
breadth of the United Kingdom, and I think perhaps it is 
the most popular song I ever wrote. I remember being 
very much amused one day, when a dear old relative of 
mine introduced me to some friends of hers as the com- 
poser of " The Devoted Husband." I laughed and 
corrected her, whereupon she said, " Well, my dear, 
isn't it the same thing after all ? " I thought she 
was an uncommonly lucky old lady to be able to 
make such a remark if she were speaking from personal 
experience. 

Santley also included " When Passion's Trance " in 
his repertoire, and sang it as splendidly as he sang every- 
thing else ; but it suited his daughter (who had just begun 
to sing professionally) so extraordinarily well that they 
agreed to share it. I never heard any one interpret it 



228 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

more beautifully than she did, nor shall I ever forget 
how she began the second verse 

" It were enough to feel, to see 
Thy soft eyes gazing tenderly." 

The way she lingered over the notes to which those words 
" thy soft eyes " were set, was absolutely lovely ; nor 
have I ever heard it sung with anything like the exquisite 
tenderness and restrained passion she put into it. It 
certainly is supremely interesting to a composer to see 
how a singer can identify himself with certain of his 
compositions till he really cannot think of the song apart 
from him. To me the opening phrase of the second 
verse of " When Passion's Trance " is like a lifelike 
portrait of Edith Santley, nor can I ever connect any one 
else with it. 

I wrote a good many songs that summer. " Mary 
Morrison " was among the number that Edith sang con- 
stantly, and a Spanish song, " Es tanto lo que te quiero," 
that her father translated into English and that was 
published by Messrs. Boosey. She also sang my song, 
" Ich habe gelebt und geliebt." The poem is taken 
from Schiller's Wallenstein. This I translated myself, 
and I remember how kindly Matthew Arnold helped me 
with my task. I still have a little note from him sug- 
gesting alterations, which I was, of course, only too 
thankful to make. 

But it was with another of my Shelley songs that she 
made one of her greatest successes at the Monday Pops., 
when her beautiful singing and splendid interpretation 
of the poem and music roused the audience to real en- 
thusiasm. I remember how excited we both were the 
night she sang " My soul is an enchanted boat " for the 
first time the poem is out of Prometheus Unbound, and 
is to my mind absolutely perfect. I adored it ! The 
ethereal loveliness of the words affected me so strongly, 
they evoked a vision of such ideal beauty, such ineffable 
happiness, that a burning longing arose in me to capture 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 229 

if only one drop of that essence, to make that one drop 
my own my very own. I longed to make a casket to 
enshrine those words a casket of music. I never 
thought that to do so was far beyond my power, that it 
wanted a genius equal to Shelley's to undertake such a 
task. Fortunately we are ignorant of our limits when 
we are young, or we would never attempt anything at 
all. Perhaps it is just as well ! We are still sailing 
happily on " Youth's smooth ocean," where everything 
seems possible, where goals exist only to be reached with 
perfect ease, and where storms and wrecks are unim- 
aginable catastrophes. Sometimes we really do bring 
some tiny boat safely into the harbour, and our little 
success gives us an almost pathetic confidence in our- 
selves. But I would no more dare to set those words 
now, than I would attempt to translate a golden shower 
of falling stars into music. 

Here are the verses. I made a sort of recitative out 
of the first ten lines, and the actual song began on the 
words, " My soul is an enchanted boat." 

RECITATIVE 

Thy words are sweeter than aught else but his 
Whose echoes they are : yet all love is sweet, 
Given or returned. Common as light is love 
And its familiar voice wearies not ever. 
Like the wide heaven, the all-sustaining air, 
It makes the reptile equal to the god, 
They who inspire it most are fortunate, 
As I am now : but those who feel it most 
Are happier still, after long sufferings 
As I shall soon become. 

SONG 

My soul is an enchanted boat 

Which like a sleeping swan doth float 
Upon the silver waves of thy sweet singing. 

And thine doth like an angel sit 

Beside the helm conducting it 
Whilst all the winds with melody are ringing. 

It seems to float ever, for ever 

Upon that many winding river 



230 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Between mountains, woods, abysses, 

A paradise of wildernesses, 

Till, like one in slumber bound 

Borne to the ocean, I float down, around 

Into a sea profound of ever spreading sound. 

Meanwhile thy spirit lifts its pinions 

In music's most serene dominions, 
Catching the winds that fan that happy heaven, 

And we sail on away, afar 

Without a course, without a star 
But, by the instinct of sweet music driven ; 

Till through Elysian garden islets 

By thee, most beautiful of pilots, 
Where never mortal pinnace glided, 
The boat of my desire is guided ; 

Realms where the air we breathe is love, 

Which in the winds, on the waves doth move, 

Harmonising this earth with what we feel above. 

I can still hear the splendid passion which Edith Santley 
threw into those last three lines. She held the audience 
from start to finish, and that they really caught something 
of our young enthusiasm as we finished the last beautiful 
words was only too evident by the reception they gave us. 
Even the critics were kind that evening more than kind. 

I have just re-read those words, and as I finished doing 
so it flashed across my mind that any human being who 
has ever responded, heart and soul, to the call of beauty 
but I mean beauty in the very highest sense of the 
word beauty of conduct will respond to the end, no 
matter under what circumstances no matter where it 
may lead him. For this wonderful call comes from the 
same mysterious region as Love, and even as Love it is 
stronger than Death. 

Perhaps it is never so clear, so penetrating, as when it 
calls for the accomplishment of some heroic deed, some 
great sacrifice, when it almost summons the soul from the 
prison of the body and bids it act in splendid defiance of 
its fetters, oblivious of its shackles, mindful only of its 
Divine origin. Captain Gates heard that call amidst the 
terrific desolation of the Polar regions and responded to 
it with his life. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 231 

But seldom does one hear that call in early life, seldom 
does it reach across the horizon-line the horizon-line 
that lies on the edge of the dark and turbulent sea of Self. 

Those who are able to steer their boat alone across 
that sea, across that line, are indeed the chosen few. 
Many perish in its waters and never reach those regions 
where " the air we breathe is love " that beautiful love 
for others that grows like a rose on the soil where self- 
interest lies dead. 

But a different fate is reserved for many and many 
of God's children. When Destiny drives us across that 
raging sea up to that horizon-line and bids us cross it in 
our pitiful little cockleshell, when we look helplessly, 
wildly, around in the horrible black night and realise that 
there is no escape, that we must cross it, that we must face 
the empty horror of despair that we are so certain lies 
beyond it, then at that crucial moment to how many 
of us has not been sent a pilot ? a pilot at whose advent 
Destiny has relaxed her grip, for she has recognised the 
messenger of God, the Pilot who has seized the helm just 
as our poor little boat was about to founder on the cruel 
rocks 

" And thine doth like an angel sit 
Beside the helm conducting it." 

Oh, dear and steadfast Pilot, you who have kept our 
courage up until the dawn of that wonderful new morning 
by whose soft and steady light you have conducted us 
safely across that dangerous horizon-line to those serene 
dominions, to that " happy heaven " which it is so 
desperately difficult for some of us to reach without 
human help you bear the same name the whole world 
over the beloved name of Faithful Friend. 

And it is music in our ears, for we trust you in the dark, 
and you save us ! 

Just before the end of the season I heard again from 
Lady Bective. She asked me if it would be possible for 
me to come now and play my songs to the Princess of 



232 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Wales, who was again going to tea at her house I think 
she was living in Portland Place at the time. I wrote and 
said I was able to come and that it would give me very 
great pleasure to do so some one had told me that the 
Princess knew a good many of my songs and often played 
them. So when the appointed day came round, I took 
the manuscript of " When Passion's Trance " with me. I 
thought she would perhaps allow me to dedicate it to her. 
In any case I felt I would very much like to ask her to 
accept it. It wasn't yet published. 

I forget entirely which songs I played to her that 
afternoon, but in all probability they were those she had 
heard sung by Mr. Santley naturally they were the ones 
by which I was known best. When the music was over 
I made my little request, and well do I remember the 
charming incident that took place before she left the 
house. She was carrying my manuscript in her hand as 
she bade good-bye to her beautiful hostess ; on seeing this, 
one of the gentlemen-in-waiting went up to her and 
offered to take it to her carriage. She thanked him and 
shook her head ; a minute later another of the guests a 
lady this time asked her if she might carry it down for 
her. Again she shook her head with a few words of thanks. 
I could see what was happening, and I remember feeling 
distinctly pleased at her refusing to give my manuscript 
into the keeping of any one else. Presently she passed me 
on her way out of the room ; she paused for a moment to 
wish me good-bye, then, pointing to the little roll of music 
in her hand, she said with a charming smile - 

" When some one gives me a present I like to take care 
of it myself." 

That August we went to Hamburg and Dresden, as we 
had arranged. I enjoyed the few days we spent on the 
Alster, and Hamburg struck me as one of the most delight- 
fully cheery towns I had ever been in. We also visited 
Lubeck with its splendid old Rathhaus, and in one of the 
churches I forget which we saw Holbein's celebrated 
"Dance of Death." It gave me the creeps. I should think 
Monsieur Saint-Saens must have had some such picture 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 233 

in his mind when he composed his celebrated "Danse 
Macabre," which I believe will live longer than anything 
else he has ever written, on account of its extraordinary 
and arresting originality. I heard it for the first time in 
Paris at a Larnoureux Concert in the Champs Elysees, 
and I shall never forget the uncanny impression conveyed 
from the very outset. 

The haunted graveyard lies before one's eyes, desolate 
and abandoned, with the little mortuary chapel in its 
midst ; the cold white tombstones stand out between 
the grassy mounds from which presently shadowy figures 
will creep, at the summons of Death, the cadaverous 
musician, whose skeleton figure stands beneath a cypress 
tree tuning his instrument for the ghastly dance that is 
presently to follow ; one literally hears the rustle of the 
dead leaves on the dank grass, the dreary soughing of the 
autumn wind through the dead branches of the naked 
trees, as the dreadful revel grows wilder and wilder, the 
music more and more unearthly. And then the sudden 
disappearance of the ghostly revellers whose graves 
once more close silently over them, the sudden shaft of 
light that pierces the darkness as the cock crows ! One 
awakes almost with a start from the musical nightmare, 
one of the cleverest and most realistic pieces of music 
ever written. 

We only paid a flying visit to Dresden. I had no 
time to visit any of my old haunts. What I chiefly 
remember, besides the famous picture gallery with its 
little room dedicated exclusively to the heavenly Sistine 
Madonna and Child, was a performance of Der Freis- 
chutz I had never heard it before. I enjoyed the music 
and was still young enough to look forward with excite- 
ment to the Incantation scene with its hobgoblins, etc. 
I had expected to be tremendously thrilled ; I had ex- 
pected my hair to stand on end as Caspar made his com- 
pact with the Evil One, and was extremely disappointed 
to find that it did nothing of the sort. It behaved 
exactly like an apathetic wig whose spirit had been com- 
pletely crushed by a prim, suburban hair-net. 



234 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

We returned to England in time for the Birmingham 
Festival at which Mr. Santley was singing. It had been 
a long-standing arrangement that Mr. Innes and his eldest 
daughter should stay in Birmingham, during the Festival 
week, at the same hotel as himself. Edith Santley and 
I were among the guests who had been invited for that 
week to Patshull, the beautiful country house of the late 
Earl of Dartmouth, whose daughter, Lady Frances Legge, 
had introduced herself to me some two or three years 
previously at one of the Henry Leslie choir practices as 
an old friend of Mr. Spencer Lyttelton. We soon got to 
know each other pretty well, and through me she made the 
acquaintance of Edith. I remember introducing the 
latter to her future husband, Mr Robert Lyttelton, in 
the dining-room at Patshull. She was married to him 
not long afterwards. But how little did any of us dream 
of the dreadful sorrow which was to come into our lives 
before the week was out ! 

We all met at the hotel after the first performance, 
which I believe was Elijah, but when Edith and I 
went there next morning I found, to my consternation, 
that dear Mr. Innes had returned to London. He had 
begged his daughter to stay on for the evening perform- 
ance, but, as he was not feeling quite fit, he thought 
he would rather go home. He made so light of his in- 
disposition, and was so anxious not to spoil her pleasure, 
that she really felt no sort of alarm. But, somehow, I 
felt frightened. I had expected to see him. I had not 
heard his reassuring words, and I experienced a sensation 
of dread when I heard he had gone back to London. He 
adored Santley 's singing and liked him personally, and 
I knew he had been looking forward to the Festival 
with real pleasure. I felt so sure that he had slipped 
away quietly so as not to spoil things for the others, that 
I telegraphed to say I was coming home, that I wanted 
to be with him. He wrote and told me not to do so on 
any account, adding, " I really wish you to stay. Lady 
Fanny has always been so kind and charming to you, it 
wouldn't be kind to break up the party after you have 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 235 

only just arrived. Stay on, if only to please me. I am 
not at all ill I only felt I would be better at home ; you 
mustn't be alarmed." 

Of course this letter quieted me somewhat, though 
it did not entirely remove the restless feeling that had 
taken possession of me. Next morning I again went to 
the performance with Edith. Her father was singing in 
Gounod's Redemption, I believe. It was there that 
I saw Cardinal Newman for the first time. I remember 
the very great interest he aroused when he was seen to 
enter the hall. He looked old and was very bent. I 
recollect thinking that he had a kind and very expressive 
face. He seemed touched by the way he was greeted on 
all sides, and smiled almost anxiously as the crowd made 
way for him, as though he would be sorry not to respond 
kindly to every individual greeting. As far as I can 
remember he wore a black cassock with the usual red 
sash tied round the waist, which is, I believe, the only 
thing that differentiates a cardinal's dress in private 
life from that of any other priest. During the few 
minutes in which he walked past, the whole atmosphere 
seemed charged with sympathy and reverence I could 
swear to that. 

Some time afterwards I went down to Birmingham 
with Mr= Santley to help at one of the concerts they used 
to have at the Oratory. Cardinal Newman loved music ; 
he played the violin himself, and sometimes played in 
concerted music with his friends. That evening I made 
the acquaintaince of an extremely kind and attractive 
priest, Father Richard Bellasis, who arranged that I 
should meet the Cardinal next morning, when, to my 
surprise and pleasure, he gave me one of his books, with 
a few words written on the fly -leaf . Later on I had some 
very kind little letters from him which are still in my 
possession. I once consulted him on a very difficult 
question. I hesitated a good deal before intruding my 
private affairs on such a great man, but when I received 
his answer, as wise as it was kind, I felt more than glad 
that I had not hesitated to consult him. 



236 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

When we returned to Patshull that afternoon we found 
a telegram lying in the hall. It was addressed to me. I 
opened it and to my horror read 

" Tell Edith to return at once. Her mother is dying. " 

We managed to catch a train that took us back to 
London that night, and were met at the station by the 
doctor and Edith's brother, Michael. But we were too 
late. Her mother had died while we were still en route. 

I went back to Porchester Terrace alone. When I 
arrived I found the house strangely quiet, and was met 
almost on the threshold by Lizzie Rose-Innes, who had 
returned that morning. She told me her father was not 
at all well, but that she had not written to me as he had 
said 

" Don't write to Maude don't frighten her." 

She added 

" Perhaps it would be best not to go to him to-night. 
You can see him early to-morrow." 

Next morning, just as I was about to go to his room, 
I heard a terrible cry. It was followed by a still more 
terrible silence. He had passed away. None of us knew 
that he had heart-disease. 

I can't write about the days that followed they were 
horrible. 

But I shall never forget the tenderness of some of the 
letters I received. Some of the kindest were from Mary 
Wakefield, Mrs. Feilden, and dear old Randegger. The 
first person to come and see me was Spencer Lyttelton, 
and two women whose kindness I shall never forget were 
Lady Fanny Legge and Mrs. Henry Gaskell. Nor can 
I ever forget the unselfish tenderness with which Lizzie 
Rose-Innes (afterwards Mrs. Santley) associated me with 
her own grief. She realised more than any one to what an 
extent her kind father had also been a father to me. 



CHAPTER XVII 

SOME weeks after dear Mr. Innes's death the household 
was, more or less, broken up. His wife went abroad, 
and I then made up my mind to take rooms and set up 
a tiny establishment of my own. Fortunately I adapt 
myself very easily to circumstances, and though I 
thoroughly enjoy, and even revel, in luxurious surround- 
ings, I am equally happy au fond in a perfectly simple 
cottage, or little flat, so long as I have the right colours 
about me, which, of course, is very easily managed in one's 
own house. What I simply cannot stand, what I abso- 
lutely loathe, is a dreary suburb. I would infinitely 
prefer a comfortable grave in a cheerful country church- 
yard. 

I eventually found some nice sunny rooms in Albion 
Street a little street not far from the Marble Arch and 
within a stone's-throw of the Park. I could see green 
trees and grass from my sitting-room window, and soon 
made the little apartment delightfully cosy. I re- 
member my astonishment on being asked by the land- 
lady if I were able to give satisfactory references. I had 
just been wondering whether she were all right, and 
whether I dare go and live there alone ! I happened to 
have a program in my pocket of a concert where Mr. 
Santley was singing some of my songs. I showed it to 
her and said 

" That is my name." 

She glanced at the program and smiled approvingly. 

" It will be all right, ma'am," she said, in a perfectly 
different voice ; " our curate sings ' Habsent, yet 
Present.' " 

On the strength of this I was allowed to set up my 



238 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

household gods in Albion Street, where I lived very 
comfortably and happily for four or five years. I lived 
there alone for a year, but after that Emmie joined me, 
and once more I realised the difference the heavenly 
difference between loneliness, and living with a dear 
comrade with whom one is in real and deep sympathy. 

I was particularly glad to have found satisfactory 
rooms in Albion Street, because it was close to the house 
of Mrs. Henry Gaskell known to her very large circle 
of friends as May Gaskell. She meant a good deal to me 
just then. I had first met her shortly after my dear 
mother's death, just before I went to Chile, and she had 
been wonderfully kind and sympathetic. Now that fresh 
sorrow had come into my life and deprived me of so dear 
a friend, it was only natural to seek the society of one 
to whom the word " friendship " meant a great deal 
more than it does to most people. She was an extremely 
popular woman, and had the gift of attaching people 
to her to a very rare degree. She was really generous 
generous with her time, which can seldom be said of a 
woman who is a great favourite in society, generous with 
her sympathy, generous with her money, and always 
ready to be of service to her friends. I was very fond 
of her and loved going to her pretty house at No. 3 Marble 
Arch, where I often met very delightful and interesting 
people. It was there that I met Mr. Henry James for the 
first time. We made friends notwithstanding the fact 
that he unblushingly confesses that all he can say of 
music is that it is perhaps ! the least unpleasant of 
noises ! But he had no prejudices against musicians 
that is very certain, for I met him once at a small supper 
party at the home of Liza Lehmann, long before she was 
married, and he sat beside me and close to Signer 
Randegger, and we laughed till we positively ached ! 
Till then I had chiefly met him at formal parties, and 
I had no idea how amusing he could be. This was the 
first time I had ever seen him at the house of an in- 
timate friend, in the same profession as myself. I suppose 
breezes from the delectable land of Bohemia must have 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 239 

floated in at the window and flown off with our company 
manners. One thing is certain, that supper party re- 
mains in my memory as one of the merriest and most 
absolutely delightful I ever went to. But then, what a 
hostess we had ! or perhaps I ought to say, what 
hostesses ! for all four sisters, in the absence of their 
mother and father, entertained us, and that they were 
exceptionally witty and quite deliciously light in hand 
will, I think, be corroborated by every one who knew 
them. Liza was one of my best friends. I delighted 
in her then, and delight in her to this day, for, added 
to many other endearing qualities, she is one of those 
fortunate people who will certainly lose her life before 
she will lose her sense of humour. 

I specially recollect one evening that I spent with her 
and her husband in their little London flat. Liza had 
just returned with him from an orchestral rehearsal at 
the Crystal Palace, where one of her compositions was 
to be given next day. Suddenly, when we were half-way 
through dinner, she exclaimed 

" Herbert, there's a mistake in one of the parts ! 
It will ruin the whole performance. I must return to 
the Crystal Palace at once." 

44 Well," he answered, " that is quite impossible. 
The place is locked up, and locked up it remains till the 
performance." 

44 1 must get in," she said tragically. " The question 
is How ? " 

After a moment " I shall offer to char for the 
Palace." 

We suggested that in all probability the Crystal 
Palace (whoever he, she, or it may be) might possibly 
prefer the services of the highly satisfactory professional 
lady who was already in permanent attendance, to that 
of the most distinguished composer in creation ! 

" I must get in," she repeated ; 4 ' it's got to be managed." 

A pause. 

44 Shall I send for a complete set of burglars' tools ? 
Shall I offer a silver thimble to the Drum's mother ? " 



240 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

We had just come to the conclusion that the Drum 
provided he were of the affectionate disposition that 
rotund people are generally supposed to possess might 
possibly be led astray, might even be induced to break 
recklessly into the Palace and secrete the poor, distracted 
composer inside his instrument, when, with a touch of 
real genius, she laid her finger on the weak spot in our 
arrangements. " Ten chances to one," she said, " the 
Drum's mother will have been dead for years. He will 
think I most certainly ought to have known it, and I 
shall only make a deadly enemy for life." 

There are dangers to which no sane person voluntarily 
exposes himself, and it was finally decided to let things 
slide. 

No doubt they did ! 

It was at Mrs. Gaskell's house that I also met Alfred 
Lyttelton for the first time. He was a bachelor then 
I don't think he can have been more than six or seven- 
and-twenty I can see him now as if it were yesterday 
standing on the hearth-rug, with his back to the fire, 
as I was shown into the drawing-room. We were both 
dining there that night. I liked him from the very first 
moment I saw him. He had an extraordinarily expressive 
face. Though he was so young and looked so happy 
and successful, he already had that wonderfully kind 
look in his eyes that drew everyone to him. It was not 
possible to know him without being attracted to him, 
for he was one of the most lovable of human beings 
It was not long afterwards that he married his first 
wife, Miss Laura Tennant, the daughter of Sir Charles 
Tennant of The Glen, Innerleithen, and sister to Mrs. 
Asquith. I remember sending him the manuscript of 
my little song, " Liebe, Liebe," when I heard of his en- 
gagement, little thinking that his married life would 
hardly be of one short year's duration. I gave him the 
MSS. of another of my songs, "It is na Jean," after 
her death. He was a real lover of music, like all the 
Lytteltons, but I had no idea he even knew his notes 
till one evening, when I was staying at his country house 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 241 

at Wittersham, about a year before his death, when to 
my surprise I heard him playing my song, " The Bonny 
Curl," softly to himself. 

I recollect a touching little episode in connection 
with " Liebe, Liebe " it certainly put a seal on to the 
strong feeling of sympathy I had for him. It was during 
the year of his first marriage. I had been asked to a 
party at his house. During the course of the evening 
some one, standing quite close to me, said something so 
cruelly unkind about one of my compositions that it 
literally made me wince. It was said in so loud a voice 
that many people heard it. I naturally said nothing, 
but made up my mind to leave much earlier than I 
intended and as soon as was possible, without attracting 
attention. Alfred must have heard the remark, for when 
I said good-bye to him he said, " Oh, I am coming down 
with you." We stood for a few moments in the hall, 
while the servant whistled for a hansom. All of a sudden 
he said to me 

" Don't go for a moment." 

He left me, and went into the small library on the 
ground floor that was his special sanctum. After a few 
seconds he returned with a little roll of music in his hand. 
I have never seen a look of greater kindness in any man's 
eyes as he said gently 

" Just see how I prize this." 

It was the manuscript of " Liebe, Liebe " that I had 
sent him some months before. Could any amende 
honorable for another's shortcomings have been made 
with more consideration, with more manly tenderness ? 

I told his wife that little story only the other day, a 
few days after his death. 

With Alfred Lyttelton's first wife, Miss Laura Tennant, 
I was only very slightly acquainted. It was her sister 
Margot now Mrs. Asquith who was my friend, who 
still is my friend, and who once said to me so affectionately 
that I recall it with real tenderness 

" You say it is you who generally come forward to 
make friends well, you can never say that in my case." 
16 



242 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Those words were spoken many, many years ago, and 
there has been time enough and to spare for two women 
to go completely out of each other's lives, especially 
when one of them becomes the wife of the Prime Minister 
and the other doesn't. Yet only a short time ago 
Mrs. Asquith put herself out for me as I am perfectly 
certain not one woman in a thousand would have done 
under similar circumstances. It was in the month of 
March 1912. I was to have gone to the United States 
for some recitals, but there was so much trouble and 
worry connected with the whole affair that at last it 
was given up. In one way I was glad, as I was rather 
dreading the fatigue and rush involved in such an under- 
taking ; on the other hand, abandoning the enterprise 
meant the loss of the money I had already spent in 
preparing for it, and which, to me, meant a great deal 
just then. 

I was on the very eve of sailing when I received the 
final cable from New York that clinched matters. It 
was during those anxious weeks of the great Coal Crisis 
which certainly must still be fresh in the memory of 
most people. Before public affairs had become as serious 
as they eventually did, I asked Mrs. Asquith if she 
thought it would be possible for her to lend me the great 
dining-room at Downing Street in order to give a recital 
of some of my new compositions with the assistance of 
Mr. Robert Maitland, an artist for whom I have the 
greatest admiration and who sings many of my latter, 
and several of my earlier, songs as I have seldom heard 
them interpreted. 

I told her the exact circumstances, and never shall 
I forget the warmth and kindness with which she im- 
mediately responded, or the sympathetic way in which 
Miss Violet Asquith and her young sister, Elizabeth, and 
another charming member of the household Miss 
Way, Mrs. Asquith's private secretary threw them- 
selves into my interests and sold tickets right and 
left. For, under the circumstances, we had decided to 
keep the concert a completely private affair. The 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 243 

political horizon was growing darker and darker every 
moment. I went twice to Downing Street during the 
week that preceded the concert to suggest giving it up 
altogether, as it seemed to me it could only be a source 
of very great inconvenience to have the house upset by 
my arrangements at such a time. But I always received 
the same answer " that I must think of my own interests 
and not dream of giving it up, that it would be quite 
all right." 

A Cabinet Council was going on downstairs on the 
morning of my concert, 19th March 1912. Shortly after 
the arrival of the carts that brought the chairs that 
were necessary for seating the audience, quite a little 
crowd had gathered round the front door anxious to 
know what was going to take place. But they soon 
dispersed when they found that no explanations were 
forthcoming. It would indeed have been a poor return 
for such exceptional kindness on the part of Mr. and 
Mrs. Asquith, if, on a day when it would have been so 
very much pleasanter for them to have had the house to 
themselves, I had been the cause of subjecting them to 
any of the unfriendly criticisms that might so easily 
have been made, had it been supposed that they were 
giving some great entertainment at so critical and anxious 
a moment. Of course no musical critics had been invited, 
nor was the slightest notice taken of the concert, except 
by the very great number of people who, fortunately for 
me, were able to come, and whose presence secured a 
financial result which was more than satisfactory. 

As far as the music was concerned I specially remember 
the touching and beautiful way Mr. Maitland sang my 
setting of Cardinal Newman's words, " Lead, kindly 
Light." I don't think any one could have interpreted 
either words or music to greater perfection, and I shall 
never forget the infinite pains he took with even the 
tiniest detail of the song whilst we studied it together. 
It was my dear friend, Robert Hichens, who suggested 
to me that I should write the music to that poem. It 
was, of course, quite familiar to me. I knew it in the 



244 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

way we know a person of whom we are fond but whose 
real self we cannot know profoundly because we have 
not loved him profoundly. I never realised the depth 
of feeling contained in those words till I began to set 
them. Once, when we were discussing them, I happened 
to say that I thought they expressed repentance of a 
singularly poignant character, and I remember being 
struck by his answer, " Yes, but it is the repentance of 
a good man." This remark opened my eyes to something 
I had not seen in them at first, and after that I felt so 
afraid of missing anything that might be hidden between 
the lines of the poem, that I studied it till it literally 
took possession of me. Here is no anaemic resignation 
to a Power so infinitely stronger than himself that it is 
useless to defy it, but a superb trust in the splendid 
nature of that Power not so much a profound repentance 
for some terrible sin as the heart's passionate con- 
demnation of itself for having clamoured so persistently 
for the fulfilment of its own desires, desires which, if 
fulfilled, he now realises would have utterly wrecked 
his life, for having rebelled with such insane pride 
against the will of Him whom he has at last recognised 
as the God of Love. In those lines, if one studies 
them deeply, one seems to hear the beating of a 
heart perhaps Newman's own absolutely regenerated, 
absolutely conquered, by the sheer beauty of Divine 
Love. 

And then how one understands those words 

" But now lead Thou me on " 

It little matters where with such a guide ! 

There were four other songs of mine that Mr. Maitland 
sang most beautifully that afternoon, " 'Tis better 
to have loved and lost " (Tennyson), " Wer zum 
ersten Male liebt " (Heine), and two gipsy songs 
one Russian and one Hungarian. The Russian song 
I found in N. Minsky's French translation of Tolstoi's 
play, Le Cadavre Vivant. It is called, " Mon petit lin," 
and is published by Messrs. Boosey in a little volume 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 245 

with two other gipsy songs from the same play these are 
called, " Mes jeunes gars " and " A la pelouse." I set 
the words of " Mon petit lin " (" Song of the Flax " in 
Mr. Paul England's translation) while I was detained 
in London waiting for my American affairs to be decided. 
I had taken a very comfortable room in Seymour Street, 
Portman Square, for some weeks, and wrote all three 
songs there. The weather was often gloomy and de- 
pressing, but I hardly noticed it. The words of those 
gipsy songs flew away with my imagination, and set me 
down far, far away in the south of Russia on the great 
steppes near the Sea of Azov, where the heat in summer, 
as I well know from experience, is almost tropical in its 
fierce intensity. I seemed to see the solitary, picturesque 
figure of a poor Russian peasant tilling the ground, and 
praying, with the fervour which is so characteristic of his 
kind, that the soil on which his very life depends may 
yield an abundant harvest. I seemed to see him in a 
vast landscape, suggestive in its flat immensity of the 
ocean, or the sky, and bending over the flax, as a father 
might bend over his little child whose welfare was all 
the world to him. I could almost hear the poor peasant 
pleading with it and whispering anxiously 

" Reussis, reussis, blanc et fin, mon petit lin." 

I loved writing the music to it. 

The Hungarian gipsy song, by Petofi, poet and 
patriot, was of a very different character, but Mr. Mait- 
land sang it equally well, with splendid fire and very 
great dramatic feeling. It describes a mad procession 
of gipsy musicians through a Hungarian village ; one of 
the gipsies, the one who is supposed to sing the song, is 
almost crazy with grief the girl he worships has aban- 
doned him for another. He implores the other gipsies 
to play something sad and miserable, while he lets him- 
self go to the despair that possesses him ; but as they 
approach the cottage where his beloved now lives in 
utter forgetfulness of him, he tells them to strike up the 
wildest tune they know, and there, beneath her window, 



246 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

they dance and sing like madmen ; she is never to know 
that she has wrecked his life. 

" Mog's die Falsche nimmer wissen 
Wie sie nur das Herz zerrissen." 

Those are the last lines, and the keynote of the whole 
song. 

It was a bachelor friend of the Tennants whose ac- 
quaintance I made at Mrs. Gaskell's house Mr. Godfrey 
Webb who years and years ago asked me one day if I 
knew them. I said I did not, whereupon he said, " Well, 
you simply must meet each other. I am sure you would 
all get on capitally." 

A few days later he wrote to me, " They have invited 
us both to tea at Grosvenor Square, and I hope you will 
allow me to escort you. They will all be there, and you 
will meet Chartie (Lady Ribblesdale, the eldest daughter), 
Lucy (Mrs. Graham Smith), Laura, and Margot. I'm 
certain you will like them all." 

He was devoted to the whole family, and was one 
of their most sincere friends. I remember that my 
own impression was a delightful one. The house was 
beautiful, and contained many valuable pictures. I 
recollect noticing Watts' lovely little picture, " Good 
Luck to your Fishing," on one of the walls. Instead of 
being shown into the sitting-room downstairs, we were 
taken upstairs to the first floor, where two large drawing- 
rooms opened one into the other. The one at the back 
was used chiefly as a reception or music room. A very 
beautiful grand piano stood at one end. The room 
was rather bare, as they often danced there. I remember 
thinking that Lady Ribblesdale looked exactly like a 
Gainsborough picture ; she was tall and very fair, a com- 
plete contrast to her sister Margot, who was dark and 
petite. I thought all the sisters, with the exception of 
Lady Ribblesdale, looked as if they had French blood in 
their veins. Margot really cared about music, and had 
a good deal of talent. She played not only with great 
feeling but with unusual charm, and, what is extremely 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 247 

rare for an amateur, she played Chopin with real compre- 
hension of the melancholy, capricious, fascinating quality 
of the music. It suited her perfectly. She also danced 
quite beautifully. In those days solo-dancing was a 
thing one seldom saw off the stage, but she had such real 
talent for dancing that she studied seriously and took 
lessons with Miss Letty Lind. This charming talent 
seems to run in the family, for her nieces, the daughters 
of her brother Frank, all dance with extraordinary grace. 
It is very seldom indeed that one meets a young girl with 
so strong a personality, with so much magnetism. All 
the same, what specially attracted me was the genuine 
warm-heartedness that showed itself in hundreds of 
delicately kind little actions that no one ever knew any- 
thing about except those who benefited by them. When 
at the end of a great many years you find the same lovable 
qualities in a friend that you discovered when you first 
met, you have some right to believe that your opinion 
rests on a very solid foundation. I have known Margot 
Tennant so splendidly loyal under circumstances that 
were difficult, and sometimes even distressing, that I 
should like to say quite publicly how I admire and love 
that quality in her. As every one knows, she was a 
tremendous favourite in society. She had the social 
gift to a very rare degree, and was as light in hand as she 
was clever. I recollect her saying to me a propos of a 
very celebrated man we both knew 

" Do tell me, how do you get on with ? " 

I said I found him distinctly difficult to get on with, 
as it was really next door to impossible to keep up a con- 
versation with him. 

She answered at once, " Well, it's only natural, since 
he positively decapitates each subject as one introduces 
it." 

I thought it would not have been easy to give a better 
explanation, and was a good deal amused at her ready 
answer. 

Before she married I stayed with her people both in 
London and in Scotland, at their delightful home " The 



248 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Glen." On one of these occasions there was a large 
house-party Lord and Lady Spencer, Lord and Lady 
Granville, Lady Ripon, Mr. Arthur Balfour, Mr. George 
Curzon (now Lord Curzon of Kedleston), and several 
other people whose names I can't remember. But I 
do remember a little conversation that took place be- 
tween Lady Ribblesdale, Margot, and myself after the 
greater part of the guests had left. During most of the 
visit I was very busy translating a book, and I used to 
spend long hours of the day in my own room, absorbed 
in my work. One morning, just before luncheon, I came 
down and found the two sisters talking over the party, 
and discussing the events of the week. As I came in 
they both turned to me. " Oh, Maude," one of them 
exclaimed, " we were just talking about you." 

" Well," I said, " I hope you were saying something 
nice about me." 

" We were indeed ! We were just saying that you 
were one of the most delightful guests who had ever 
stopped here." 

I said, " I'm not a bit surprised, and, what's more, 
I even know why you thought so." 

They both looked so taken aback at this conceited 
speech that I couldn't help laughing. One of them said 

" Now why did we think so ? " 

I said, " Because, as it happens, I was always shut up 
in my room doing that translation, and as I was hardly 
ever downstairs I never gave you a chance of finding out 
what a ghastly bore I can be." 

They both protested indignantly, but they had to 
laugh all the same, and to acknowledge that entertaining 
would certainly be much easier if every guest cultivated 
the gentle art of disappearing into space at the psycho- 
logical moment ! 

I remember Liza Lehmann telling me that she had 
once dined at the house of that very talented American 
singer, the late Madame Nordica, and that she had been 
asked to stay on for a little while after the departure of the 
other guests. Evidently some of them had been rather 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 249 

heavy in hand, for when they had driven off to their 
respective bolsters, their poor jaded hostess sank into an 
arm-chair in a complete state of physical and mental 
exhaustion. After a moment she said feebly but firmly 

" Liza Lehmann, I just despise entertaining ! " 

Now wasn't that a real cri du cceur ? 

If the people who had reduced her to this pitiable 
condition had only taken themselves off immediately 
after the second entre*e, they might have lived in her 
memory as delightful, if eccentric, guests ! 

A propos of eccentric guests, I must say I think it 
would be hard to beat Rubinstein. Once at a dinner- 
party I know for a positive fact that he became so bored 
that he pushed his plate aside, jumped up, exclaimed 
desperately, " Ich halt's nicht aus " (I can't stand this), 
rushed into the hall, seized his hat and overcoat, and fled 
like a hare from the house, leaving his hostess and the 
other guests literally gasping with astonishment. 

At another dinner-party, happening to sit beside a 
lady with a very beautiful white neck, his feelings got the 
better of him and he bent down and kissed it. She was 
furious. He, however, seemed quite unaware that he had 
done anything unconventional (to put it mildly !). 

" Ne vous agitez pas, chere madame," he said calmly, 
" il n'y a pas de quoi une petite habitude Russe Voila 
tout ! " 

While I am on the subject of unconventional behaviour, 
I really think I must relate an experience of my own that 
was rather comical. Mademoiselle Lalande, at whose 
school in Paris I was educated, wrote to me one day and 
asked me if I could do anything to help an Italian sculptor 
in whom she was interested. The poor man had just lost 
his wife and was absolutely broken-hearted. He was a 
very nice fellow, she said, but dreadfully badly off, and 
now he wanted to see if he could get any work in London. 
He came to call on me, and I liked him. He was a gentle, 
kindly man, with such a sad look in his face that one 
really longed to cheer him up. I was fortunate enough to 
get him a commission, after which he asked me if I would 



250 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

sit to him, as he would like to make me a present of a 
little bust of myself. I said I would willingly pose for 
him, and during the sittings, what between the combined 
efforts of Emmie and myself (this all happened in the 
Albion Street days when we were both in the " twenties "), 
we actually managed to raise a few smiles on his face. 
He said we were deux types. Next day, when we re- 
ferred to ourselves as i due Tippilini, hoping this might 
be the correct Italian version, he almost laughed, and 
quite visibly cheered up. He nearly took my breath 
away by informing me one day that my neck was like 
that of a Roman matron ! Which reminds me that once, 
when I was nineteen, I had a really priceless dream. I 
dreamed that a young man with whom I had had a mild 
flirtation had driven up to our house, before breakfast, in 
an immense barouche drawn by two prancing steeds in 
order to ask me to marry him. He said in a voice that 
shook with emotion 

14 Some are too tall, and some are too short, but you 
are such a Venus ! " 

Alas, why does one ever wake up ! The only other 
person who ever came to an equally wild conclusion in real 
life was an old lady who had knocked out one eye (her 
weather eye, without the shadow of a doubt) while 
wrestling with the cork of a soda-water bottle ! 

However, to return to my sculptor. After ten days 
or so the little bust was finished. It was rather a flatter- 
ing likeness, but I can't honestly say I objected to that ! 
We both felt quite sorry when he told us that he would be 
obliged to return to Paris the following day, and begged 
him to stay on to tea. He accepted. Emmie, I think, 
was dining out that day anyhow, I know she was not in 
the room, when finally, towards dusk, he got up to go. 
He thanked me with real warmth for the work I had been 
able to put in his way, for now at last he would be able to 
raise a monument to his wife which lack of funds had 
hitherto made impossible ; indeed he was so really grateful 
that I was quite touched, especially as he still looked very 
thin and pale. Then he shook hands in the most friendly 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 251 

way, after which, to my astonishment, he put his bag on 
the floor, deliberately leaned his umbrella up against the 
wall, looked me straight in the face, and without any 
further ado folded me to his sad and sable waistcoat (he 
was still in deep mourning) and embraced me for about 
three seconds (Greenwich time !). I was so utterly dumb- 
founded that I was speechless, but the next moment I 
nearly died of laughing. He picked up his bag and re- 
trieved his umbrella, opened the door, and was just about 
to depart, when he said, with the same depressed expression 
on his face as before, and in a dejected voice that admitted 
of no possible misunderstanding 
" Absolloumong comme un frere ! " 



CHAPTER XVIII. 

ONE day I thought I would very much like to show one 
of my compositions to Herr Hans Richter, who happened 
to be in London just then conducting a series of concerts 
at St. James's Hall. Every one knows that he is one of 
the most celebrated chefs d'orchestre in the world, and in 
this country he certainly is one of the most beloved into 
the bargain, for it is almost impossible to mention his 
name without some one making a kind and affectionate 
allusion to him. Again and again did I go to St. James's 
Hall to hear him conduct the Beethoven Symphonies 
and many another masterpiece ; and I really pity any 
one who loves Wagner's music who has not heard him 
conduct it. I remember as quite a young girl being taken 
to hear a great Wagner concert at the Albert Hall, and 
being fortunate enough to catch a glimpse of Wagner 
himself as we came out. It was the only time I ever saw 
him at close quarters, and, alas ! he was doing nothing 
more extraordinary than getting into his overcoat. 
Richter conducted that day, and I was young enough 
and ignorant enough to wonder how on earth Wagner 
could allow any one to usurp his rights ! As if composing 
music and conducting it were not two very different 
things ! 

I still have ringing in my ears the exquisite way that 
under Richter's direction the orchestra played the cele- 
brated Introduction to the Third Act of the Meister- 
singer, surely one of the most heavenly pieces of music 
in existence. I know nothing that can beat it for noble 
dignity, for beautiful serenity. Here is indeed a lifelike 
portrait of the immortal and adorable shoemaker, who 
was " captain of his soul," as it is given to very few of 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 253 

us to be ! I don't know whether it is an equally good 
portrait of the Hans Sachs, who actually lived in Nurem- 
burg and wrote songs there in the Middle Ages, but what 
does that matter ? Wagner has created the man who 
will live for ever as the type of the ideal artist. There is 
no more lovable character in fiction than that middle- 
aged Meistersinger, Hans Sachs, or if there is, I have 
never come across it ; the man whose passionate love 
does not blind him even for one second to the merits of 
the handsome young aristocrat, who is his rival the 
man who teaches that rival the secrets of his own art in 
order to enable him to win the prize at the great musical 
contest ! Ah, and how much more than the prize, since 
the woman they both love is included in it ! The man 
who refuses to listen to his own heart when Eva, only the 
evening before, tells him she will marry him ; for the poor 
child who dares not hope that her knight will prove the 
successful candidate, feels that if she must belong to 
another, then let that other be her dear old friend ! 

I confess that while Hans Sachs is helping young 
Walther to shape the Preislied, the lump in my throat 
grows bigger and bigger. He does it so absolutely simply, 
as though it were the most natural thing in the world for 
one man to teach another how he may best rob him of 
his heart's desire how he may best wall up the window 
through which the light might otherwise stream into his 
own house of life ! 

But it is the last act that really is enough to move 
any one to tears when Walther, having carried off the 
prize (and Eva into the bargain), says he doesn't par- 
ticularly wish to be elected a Meistersinger ; he is a knight, 
and needs no other distinction. 

And he owes his entire happiness to a Meistersinger ! 

When Hans Sachs cries with noble indignation, 
" Ehret mir die Deutsche Meistersinger " (I'll have you 
honour the German Masters), " and remember to the end 
of your days that it was not as a knight that you won 
the woman you love, but as an artist " well, if one 
happens to be an artist oneself, no matter how insignifi- 



254 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

cant, one feels such a rush of emotion to the heart, one 
is invaded by so happy, so legitimate a pride when he 
refuses to have that name belittled, that one longs to 
cheer him ! 

I don't know how other people may feel when they 
see Hans Sachs presented with that laurel wreath in the 
last act, but, personally, I feel that I can hardly bear it. 
A laurel wreath instead of happiness ! The irony of it ! 
One might as well present a man with a bouquet of 
orchids instead of a bed when he is dead tired ! Not 
that I wish to undervalue fame or success or any of the 
pleasant things the laurel wreath stands for, but they 
can't satisfy a hungry heart. If any one is inclined to 
think that I am talking sentimental nonsense, let him 
read Romain Rolland's life of Michael Angelo, the man 
whose name is immortal and whose heart was starved 
to death. I never read anything sadder than the terrible 
way he hungered for the happiness that for some 
mysterious reason he was called upon to forgo, from 
the beginning to the end of his life. I declare I would 
far rather be the wife of a crossing-sweeper I loved and 
who loved me ; nor would I care a brass button if his 
family tree had its roots in the garden of the Foundling 
Hospital. 

But not if he were like the crossing-sweeper to whom 
I gave pennies when I was a child. He had a wooden leg, 
which in course of time gave way, so he asked us to buy 
him another. And when he had strapped on the new one, 
if he didn't turn to, and beat his wife with the old one ! 

However, I must get back to the morning when I took 
my song, " Ich habe gelebt und geliebt," to the great 
conductor. I think, indeed I am almost certain, that 
Edith Santley accompanied me to his house. She sang 
it splendidly, and I need hardly say I fully realised that 
he was far more likely to be favourably impressed if he 
heard her sing it than if I merely played it. 

The interview was very satisfactory. I didn't know 
him personally till that morning, and he looked at me so 
gravely through his spectacles that I felt quite nervous ; 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 255 

but after he had heard the song he said something so 
kind and encouraging, that I made up my mind there 
and then to exert myself to the very utmost, and to do 
the very best work of which I was capable. I knew what 
a great musician he was, and those few words of praise, 
which were far beyond anything I had hoped for, sent 
my spirits up sky-high. 

I wanted very much to study orchestration with him, 
but I don't think he ever took pupils. He told me, 
however, to be sure to come and see him if ever I went 
to Vienna ; and of course I was only too delighted to 
accept the invitation, though at that moment I hadn't 
the remotest intention of going there. 

But those chance words set me thinking. I realised 
how much there was still for me to learn, how very little 
I knew. I hadn't studied counterpoint really seriously, 
for whilst I was at the Royal Academy I was always 
interrupting my studies to write songs, and I knew very 
little about orchestration. What I had done in that 
way was really not worth mentioning. I felt this to 
be a very serious drawback indeed. And suddenly, at 
the beginning of the following winter (1883), I made up 
my mind to spend six months in Vienna. I didn't know 
a soul there except Herr Richter, but I realised how 
far easier it would be to study quietly in a town where 
I had no friends, than in London where I knew such 
crowds of people that it really wasn't at all easy to lead 
the secluded and quiet life so necessary to any composer 
who wishes to achieve anything. Herr Richter, I knew, 
would give me the very best advice as far as my studies 
were concerned, but where was I to live when I got there ? 
This was the next question that arose, for I certainly 
didn't wish to live either at an hotel or at a pension. 
As usual, I fell on my feet. Mr. Frank Schuster offered 
to write to some Austrian friends of his, a painter and 
his wife, who had an apartment in the Schottenring (a 
charming quarter of Vienna), and who occasionally took 
a student or two to live with them. Emmie had decided 
to accompany me, and they were asked whether they 



256 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

could put us up for six months or so. The answer came 
almost by return of post, saying that any friends of 
his would be welcome, and we decided to start in about 
a fortnight or three weeks. 

Mr. Frank Schuster is so very well known as one of 
the most ardent music lovers in London, that it is hardly 
necessary to explain who he is. But he is the kindest 
and most constant of friends, and a most congenial 
comrade into the bargain, for his happy sense of humour 
is absolutely unique, and surrounds him as the sea sur- 
rounds Sicily ! As I happen to be one of the lucky fish 
that have often swum in those delightful waters, I feel 
that I have every right to say that they are exhilarating 
and refreshing to a very unusual degree ! His lovely 
little house in Great Queen Street, Westminster, has been 
for years and years one of the chief centres of musical 
London, and few indeed are the artists of distinction, 
both English and foreign, who have not at some time 
or other enjoyed the hospitality of this kindest of hosts. 

His Sunday evenings are certainly amongst the most 
attractive social gatherings in London. For Mr. Schuster 
is far too wise in his generation to invite nothing but 
musical celebrities to meet each other ! His guests in- 
clude celebrated authors, celebrated painters, celebrated 
statesmen, and hosts of other delightful men and women 
of the world ; and some of the latter are so exception- 
ally beautiful (and so are their gowns this is an aside 
to which I am certain none of them will object) that 
the only wonder is that while his " evening stars sing 
together, " all the " sons of God " that have been invited 
to meet them do not " shout for joy " as they sink com- 
fortably down beside them on the delectable divans that 
line the walls of this most fascinating music-room. 

Only a day or two before the day fixed for our de- 
parture, Mr. Schuster came to tell me that owing to a 
very serious illness in their house, Frau Schon (I think 
that was the name of his friend) would not be able to 
receive us herself, but that she had asked a friend of 
hers, Baroness Ferstel, if it would be possible for her to 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 257 

take us in, at all events till we were able to find rooms 
for ourselves. He added that she had most kindly con- 
sented to do so, and that she was expecting us. 

Well, off we started. Both of us were rather ex- 
cited at the idea of spending the winter in Vienna, where 
neither of us had ever been. Its situation almost on the 
threshold not exactly of the East, but of strange and 
remote countries on which the East has cast its un- 
mistakable shadow held a real attraction for me. When 
I first went there, there was something distinctly exotic 
in the atmosphere. One saw all sorts of curious-looking 
people in the streets wearing strange and picturesque 
costumes. These were generally peasants from Styria 
or Carinthia. German was certainly the language univer- 
sally spoken, but at every moment one met Hungarians, 
Poles, and Bohemians, who naturally spoke their own 
language among themselves, although they were Austrian 
subjects. And Jews abounded, especially Polish Jews of 
the lower classes, who looked as if they were in the last 
stages of decay ! They wore filthy cassocks, not unlike 
in shape to those of Catholic priests, and two great- 
black ringlets, like low-spirited sausages, hung dejectedly 
on either side of their thin and sallow faces, whose ex- 
pression was one of mingled sadness and greed; the 
nose alone looked as if it had not had all the spirit 
knocked out of it, and stretched so pathetically into 
space that one couldn't help wondering if it wasn't 
perhaps making a supreme effort to fly away, for good 
and all, from its depressing and ignoble surroundings. I 
am afraid they were not attractive specimens of humanity. 
As the Germans would say 

" Ja, schdn ist was Andres ! " 

We travelled straight from Paris to Vienna, and 
arrived there at a quite unearthly hour of the morning ; 
it was still pitch dark, and could not have been more 
than half-past five when our Einspdnner drew up before 
a fine block of houses in the Maximilianplatz. No. 10 
was our destination, and the apartment of Baroness 
Ferstel was, if I remember rightly, on the first floor. 



258 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

A nice little Bohemian maid, whose face was bright with 
smiles even at that early hour, opened the door and 
showed us to our rooms. They were so different to 
what we had expected that we were genuinely surprised. 
The first thing that struck me, notwithstanding that I 
was half asleep, was a fine piece of Gobelin tapestry that 
hung on one of the walls of the sitting-room, and one or 
two very good oil paintings ; one was by Sal vat or Rosa. 
Our bedroom was a delightful room. Everything was 
dainty in the extreme, so much so that my sister said 
to me 

" I've an awful feeling that we have come to the 
wrong house. These rooms are too good to be true." 

We determined, however, to turn in (even if we were 
only to be turned out again). The two pretty wooden 
beds with their silk coverlets and finely embroidered 
sheets and pillows were far too fascinating to be resisted, 
and we were soon tucked up and fast asleep. 

Baroness Ferstel, who had so kindly consented to be 
our hostess, was a perfect dear, and we hadn't been there 
many days when we became such good friends with her 
five sons and one daughter, that all idea of going any- 
where else was completely abandoned. Their ages 
ranged from twenty-five to fourteen. We were very 
much amused when they told us how furious they had 
been with their mother for allowing us to come at all, 
and amidst roars of laughter they confessed what they 
had expected us to be like. In the first place, they had 
quite decided that we were Jewesses, with red hair and 
immensely long feet. (It seems that " Weiss," the 
equivalent for " White," is a very usual Jewish name in 
Austria.) They also had made up their minds to give 
us a very wide berth, and to show us from the start that 
they intended to have nothing to do with us. The pre- 
judice against Jews in Austria is evidently quite in- 
eradicable. They were positive also that it was Emmie 
who had come to study, and that I was a bony old-maid 
sister who had come to look after her and to show my 
prominent teeth (of course they were bound to stick out 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 259 

like a miniature fan, as I was an English Jewess) to any 
one who dared approach her. 

We only arrived on Saturday morning, but on Sunday, 
by midday, they were already inclined to take a more 
hopeful view of things. One of the boys had caught a 
glimpse of Emmie's boots outside our door, and had 
immediately spread the good news that they were not 
only pretty, but small. 

On Sunday I went to Mass at the Votiv-Kirche, the 
beautiful church on the Maximilianplatz, which was 
built to commemorate the escape from assassination of 
the Emperor Franz Josef. On my way out I happened 
to catch sight of a bust beneath the pulpit ; the face 
struck me as not only very handsome, but refined and 
sensitive, and I asked the sacristan whose portrait it 
was. He told me it was that of Baron Ferstel, the archi- 
tect of the church. It seems he was only twenty-four 
years old when all the architects in Austria were invited 
to send in designs for the new church. His were so much 
more beautiful than any of the others that they were 
chosen by unanimous consent. 

On returning to the house I noticed the same name 
on a brass plate fixed to the front door. Oddly enough, 
up to that moment I had not once thought of my hostess' 
name in connection with that of the celebrated architect. 
I rang the bell, and the door was opened almost at once 
by a tall and extremely nice-looking boy of about eighteen, 
who had evidently been expecting one of his brothers, 
for he looked embarrassed when he saw me. I was, 
however, so interested by my discovery, that after a 
hurried " Good morning " I said in German 

" I have just been to Mass at that lovely church in the 
square, and they told me it was built by Baron Ferstel. 
Do tell me if he is a relation of yours ? " 

The boy looked decidedly pleased, and said that Baron 
Ferstel was his father. 

I congratulated him heartily on the fact, and after a 
few words went to our own sitting-room. 

Here was another agreeable surprise ! Evidently I 



260 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was not a Jewess, since I went to Mass at a church built 
by their own father ! And my hair was brown. There 
could be no two opinions on that subject. Whether one 
is an old maid when one isn't much more than half-way 
through the twenties, was of course for them to decide, 
but not even a council of Trent could have decreed that 
I was a scraggy one ! not even a proclamation ex 
cathedra from the Vatican. The Catholic Church knows 
where to draw the line, and would not put quite such a 
strain on the faith of her children. Wholesale decimation 
is not part of her program ! Nor was a weighing 
machine necessary to pronounce a cool and dispassionate 
verdict in my favour ; the naked eye was all-sufficient. 
In fact, to put the matter in a nutshell, as I squeezed 
past Baron Carl Ferstel in the doorway on that memorable 
morning, I took up so much space that there wasn't 
room for even a lingering doubt on the subject ! 

That afternoon, or next day, we all made each other's 
acquaintance. Baroness Ferstel asked us to come and 
have coffee with her, and was so kind and cordial that we 
both lost our hearts to her there and then. She said to us 

" Yesterday, when I heard you singing so gaily after 
that long and tiring journey, I thought you must have 
happy dispositions, and I felt sure I would like you." 

That was very pleasant to hear, though it applied 
more to Emmie than myself. It was she who went about 
the house singing so happily, for my voice, from constant 
coughs, was already hoarse and unmanageable, and though 
I often hummed to myself when composing, I never really 
sang after I was twenty-two, when my throat became 
dreadfully weak. 

I think it was Erwin Ferstel who was our first visitor. 
He was the second son, and a more attractive and charming 
lad I have never met in all my life. A beautiful Russian 
once said to me, " He is one of the most popular youths 
in Vienna; " and I must say that when one is clever and 
amusing, kind-hearted to a quite unusual degree, and 
extremely simpatico and nice-looking into the bargain, 
it was hardly to be wondered at. We made friends on the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 261 

spot ! And friends, faithful friends, we have always 
remained from that day to this, nor can I imagine any- 
thing that could destroy a friendship that has always 
meant so much to me, though of late years we have met 
but seldom. But that makes no difference. I shall 
never forget how delighted I was some years ago, in 
Taormina, at a really curious coincidence that happened 
in connection with him. I had been to tea with an 
American friend, Mr. Clifford Putnam, whose pretty little 
house and lovely garden are just outside the Messina 
gate. It was in the spring, and gradually the room became 
so oppressively hot that I asked if I might go and stand 
on the terrace for a minute. As I stepped on to it, a 
carriage drove past, with Erwin Ferstel and his brother 
inside ! I couldn't believe my eyes. One of them, I 
knew, lived in Bosnia and the other in Austria. Their 
surprise can be imagined when I called out their names 
and signed to the driver to pull up. Had I been one 
second later I would have missed them altogether, for 
they were not going to my hotel, and were only paying 
a flying visit to Taormina on their way home. 

As soon as we had settled down at Maximilianplatz I 
made up my mind to go and call upon Herr Richter. He 
was just then living in Wahring, a little way out of the 
town. He received me with the greatest kindness, and 
asked me in what way he could be useful to me. After a 
little conversation he gave me a big score to read, but it 
was utterly beyond me at that time, and I told him so. He 
then advised me to study with Herr Robert Fuchs, whom 
he recommended as quite the best professor he knew in 
Vienna. Before I took my leave, Herr Richter introduced 
me to his wife such a pretty woman, a Hungarian, I think 
and then to his little girls. I remember how they stood 
round the grand piano while their father made them sing 
the bridesmaids' chorus in Lohengrin for my benefit. 
They were dear little things, and piped up the moment 
they were asked without making the slightest difficulty. 

I think it was Herr Richter who was accused of saying, 
when on one occasion he refused an invitation for his wife 



262 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" My wife is not very strong ; she must always lie in 
the afternoon ; if she does not lie, she swindles." l 

I dare say it isn't true, but he was most certainly re- 
ported to have made this amusing mistake, and I only 
give the story for what it is worth, on the chance of some 
of my younger friends not having heard it. 

Needless to say, as soon as I got home I wrote to Herr 
Fuchs and asked him if he could spare me an hour twice a 
week. Fortunately for me he was able to come to Maxi- 
milianplatz, and I started work without any further loss 
of time. I liked him extremely. He was a delicate, 
rather small man of about forty, and a wonderfully good 
teacher. The Ferstel boys used to call him " Serenaten 
Fuchs " I believe it was his nickname in Vienna, given 
to him because he had written several charming serenades 
for orchestra that had taken the fancy of the public and 
made him one of the most popular composers of the day. 
He was very much amused at the unceremonious way we 
talked about the young Ferstels as " die Buben." They, 
by the way, were all "Baron Erwin, Baron Carl," etc. 
etc., as in Austria every child inherits a title if his father 
happens to possess one. 

" Ach was ! " he exclaimed, after I had introduced 
Erwin to him one day, " Sie nennen so ein fescher junger 
Herr ein Bub ! " 2 

"Oh," I said (a la Rubinstein), "that is only an 
English custom ! We always call young men ' boys ' 
over there." 

Those titles sat so very lightly on the heads of the 
dear young Ferstels that it is no wonder they rolled off a 
few days after our arrival. To our infinite amusement it 
was Emmie and I who were promoted by a Viennese dress- 
maker, who addressed parcels to us, " Fraulein Maude 
and Emily von White." When I told the boys, they 
were not in the least surprised, and only wondered that 
they had not been addressed to the two, " Grafin von 

1 Schwindeln is the German for feeling giddy or faint. 
1 " What, you mean to say you call this smart young man a 
boy ? " 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 263 

White." Erwin went so far as to declare that the love 
of titles in Austria amounted to a monomania, and 
that he was quite sure the cook and the concierge never 
dreamed of addressing each other except as " Frau von 
Kochin " and " Herr von Portier " in private life ! 

These explanations were all given in English, the 
language we habitually spoke together. With the rest of 
the family we always spoke German. But Erwin, who 
was studying for the diplomatic service, was only too 
pleased to speak English. He had also been in England 
with his father to see Sir Tatton Sykes, whose acquaint- 
ance they had made in Vienna, and who afterwards 
begged Baron Ferstel to come to London, as he wished to 
consult him about building a Catholic church on the lines 
of the Votiv Church. The negotiations came to nothing, 
but at all events Erwin picked up some more English, 
and the mere fact that he was the only one of the family 
who could talk to us about London, was a sort of link 
from the very outset. 

He certainly made some very funny mistakes at the 
beginning, and I remember how I laughed when he told 
me that a certain brilliant artist had given proofs of such 
extraordinary eccentricity, that his friends had insisted 
on his being removed to a " foolery." 

On another occasion I said enthusiastically about a 
very beautiful woman whom I admired a good deal more 
than he did 

44 Well, all I know is, that if I had a nose like hers I'd 
ask nothing more of life." 

He merely answered 

44 Look here, I don't say that yours is an idle nose, but 
I must say I like it just as it is." 

Now that is what I call a satisfactory friend ! 

His youngest brother a boy of about fifteen used 
occasionally to pay us visits after school hours, and to 
this day we laugh at the strenuous efforts he made to 
entertain us. After fidgeting about on his chair for a 
few seconds he came to the conclusion that he ought 
to make some graceful allusion to our country. Our 



264 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

amusement can be imagined when he suddenly said in a 
hoarse voice 

" In England soil das Beef grossartig sein." 

And of course we assured him that with horse-radish 
sauce and Yorkshire pudding as adjuncts, it could defy 
every other article of food in creation ! 

But it mustn't be supposed that we did nothing but 
amuse ourselves at Maximilianplatz. We all worked 
very hard. The boys were all preparing themselves for 
various professions, and I spent four mortal hours of each 
day grinding over counterpoint. I wouldn't let myself 
off even a quarter of an hour, for I was really anxious to 
get on. I showed Herr Fuchs most of the things I had 
already written, and he encouraged me tremendously. 

But, like Sir George Macfarren, he thought it a pity 
that I wrote nothing but vocal music, and strongly advised 
me to write something instrumental de longue haleine. 
Again I tried and again I failed. This time my failure 
was accompanied by such appalling depression that I 
felt as if I wanted to wipe music right out of my life. 
For the first time I was hearing the great Wagner operas. 
Herr Richter had lent me some scores. And instead of 
spurring me on, as the study of such scores would now, 
they simply seemed to shriek my own incompetence 
aloud. I felt that even in a world of microbes I only 
deserved a rickety back seat. I wasted some weeks trying 
to compose a concerto, and at last I felt as if every scrap 
of music in me were dead. Then, in sheer despair, I 
wrote to Mr. May and told him how miserable I felt 
about it all. He knew that I never shirked work and 
that I was capable of real application. I longed to have 
a talk with him. 

By return of post arrived one of the kindest and wisest 
letters I have ever received in my life. It not only com- 
forted me and put new life into me, but before a few days 
had elapsed I proved to myself the wisdom of his words. 
He said 

" I most strongly advise you to give up trying to 
write anything in the nature of a concerto, etc. I can 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 265 

see from your letter that if you continue to work at 
things which are so distasteful to you, for which you feel 
yourself so entirely unsuited, that you will not only fail 
completely in that direction, but that you will eventually 
maim the talent which you undoubtedly possess. In 
the constant endeavour to produce music artificially, 
you will lose the spontaneity which up to now has been 
so evident in all you have written. Learn all you can, 
but if you feel that song-writing is your vocation, stick 
to it." 

I blessed him for that letter. I told Herr Fuchs, what 
was the simple truth, that I was growing to detest the 
very sight of music-paper, unless I might be allowed to 
cover it with something that I didn't hate and despise 
while actually slaving away so unwillingly to produce it. 
And I'm thankful to say he gave in, when he saw that I 
was willing to work harder than ever so long as I wasn't 
asked to compose things that I felt were utterly beyond 
me. 

No sooner did I feel that no one expected me to write 
sonatas or concertos than I began to compose again with 
the greatest ease. The relief of finding that I still could 
write was a real joy. Instead of feeling that mentally 
I was developing into the equivalent of something 
rather more stodgy than a half-boiled suet pudding, I 
began to feel like a gay and cheerful soufflt. That winter 
I wrote about eight of the songs contained in my first 
German Album. Frau Rosa Papier, who was one of the 
principal Wagner singers of the Vienna Opera House, 
heard some of my compositions, and asked me to accom- 
pany her at a concert in " Absent, yet Present " and 
" When Passion's Trance," for both of which Erwin 
Ferstel made admirable German translations. She had 
a beautiful voice, and I was, of course, delighted at her 
wishing to sing them. Some of my German songs were 
shown to one of the professors at the Conservatorium, 
and his criticisms were also extremely kind, and when 
the month of May came round I had begun to feel as 
happy as I had felt miserable in the winter. I heard a 



266 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

great deal of music during the six months I spent in 
Vienna, both at the Symphony Concerts, to which I 
sometimes went with Emmie or Erwin Ferstel, and where 
I once heard Rubinstein and Madame Essipoff on the 
same day. I loved those concerts. Including the in- 
terval they lasted an hour and a half. Richter always 
conducted the two orchestral pieces that were de rigueur, 
there was generally a solo by some great pianist, and, if I 
am not mistaken, one vocal piece. I recollect a perform- 
ance of the music to the Midsummer Night's Dream, 
under Richter's direction, which was quite beautiful. 
I've heard it many and many a time since, but never have 
I heard the nocturne invested with such poetry, such 
romance ! 

We also went a good deal to the Opera. Richter 
always conducted on Wagner nights, and it was in Vienna 
that, with the exception of Lohengrin and Tannhailser, 
I heard most of his great operas. That is one of the 
things in my musical life for which I have always been 
truly grateful. I remember, as though it were but yester- 
day, the tremendous impression made on me by the perform- 
ance of Tristan and Isolde. What affected me most of 
all that first time, was the beautiful music in the second 
Act where Brangane keeps watch for the two lovers. It 
is extraordinarily, almost magically, suggestive. The 
voice of the faithful friend outside reaches the man and 
woman who, hi an ecstasy of love, are clasped in each 
other's arms through a wonderful haze of sound that 
like nothing else I have ever heard suggests not only 
ineffable, undying love, not only its surroundings during 
those immemorial hours the touching beauty of the 
lovely summer night, the dark-blue, star-strewn sky, the 
haunting perfume of sweet flowers but a growing appre- 
hension, a stealthy approach of danger 

" Habet Acht ! Habet Acht ! die Nacht entweicht ! " 
(Beware, beware ! night is waning.) 

I have forgotten many beautiful things I have heard, 
but I could never forget that splendid performance of 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 267 

Tristan and Isolde if I lived to be a hundred years old. 
Richter was a magician when he conducted Wagner's 
operas. 

What must have been Wagner's feelings the first time 
he saw that scene, and heard those waving viole and 
celli, those exquisite sustained chords in the wind, the 
heavenly sound of the harp flowing like a silver stream 
through a moonlit garden, the strange cor Anglais, 
suggesting an epoch so remote that the mind fails to 
reach it, and involuntarily conjures up a fantastic bizarre 
period that never existed outside the frame of some 
antique and faded piece of tapestry the mystic call of 
the horns, and the tender, exquisite voice of the single 
viola that every now and again makes itself heard above 
the streaming melodies and waving figures of the strings, 
and the subdued murmur of the rest of the orchestra ! 

I know, of course, that to be completely up-to-date 
I ought to speak without any particular enthusiasm of 
Wagner's music. Well, I can't do that. I can't speak 
coolly, or dispassionately, about anything or anybody I 
really love or admire. And even if the whole modern 
school has more or less " done " with Wagner, I imagine 
there are a good many people besides myself who will 
never have done with him. William James says in one 
of his essays, " Real culture lives by sympathies and 
admirations, not by likes or disdains," and certainly if a 
greater than Wagner should appear on the musical horizon, 
I hope I shall not be such a fool as not to appreciate him. 

Meanwhile, I am bound to say I had a good laugh 
one evening on coming out from one of these performances. 
As we stood in the vestibule waiting for the attendant to 
hand us our wraps, we heard him say to his companion 

" Na, Gott sei dank dass der Wagner tod ist sonst 
bekamen wir noch so ein paar Oper, und mussten noch 
ofter die liebe lange Nacht hier sitzen." l 

One day a delightful thing happened. Hidden in a 

1 " Thank God, Wagner is dead ! otherwise we'd be treated to 
another couple of operas that would keep us here the livelong 
night." 



268 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

corner of my desk I found twenty pounds ! I had put 
them there and forgotten all about them. That settled 
a question we had been debating for some time. Could 
we afford to pay a flying visit to Hungary ? We had 
been down to the Prater one afternoon where we had 
come across a band of gipsy musicians, and the desperate 
melancholy, the capricious gaiety, and utterly reckless 
joy of the music had gone to my head like strong wine. 
I felt I wanted to kick over the traces and do something 
to make the combined hair of the Universe stand straight 
on end ! Instead of doing that, I began to cry ! I don't 
know what possessed me, but I suppose that, after the 
hours and hours that I had forced myself to work at 
counterpoint with its cut and dried rules, the lawless, 
devil-me-care vitality of that gipsy music woke up some- 
thing in me that has never gone to sleep again, some- 
thing that will live as long as I have breath, something 
that made me feel as if my heart and the heart of all 
humanity had been laid bare to me for a moment, so 
that I might understand, once and for all, the heights 
and depths of emotion at white heat, the heights and 
depths of joy, grief, love fierce, passionate, demanding 
all, and giving all magnificently, counting no costs 
hate, jealousy, the ecstasy of liberty, the sheer delight in 
tremendous spaces, vast horizons, the immediate re- 
sponse to the imperious impulse of the moment, whether 
for good or evil, so that I might understand, in a word, 
the human heart let loose like a horse on the wild 
Hungarian puszta, with no guiding light beyond the 
flaming torch of its own passions the human heart to 
whom religion has never made its noble, its equally 
passionate, but superbly unselfish, appeal ! 

We told the boys of our intention to go to Hungary, 
and Erwin, as usual, was full of sympathy. He had 
done his military service in Hungary, and described to 
me in glowing language the delight with which he had 
galloped for hours and hours across the vast deserted 
stretches of land characteristic of Hungary as the great 
steppes are of Russia, and on which, at immense intervals, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 269 

one sometimes sees a lonely csarda. That is the name 
not only of a dance but of the solitary little inn that can 
be seen from far, far away, and that stands alone on the 
puszta, affording not only a resting-place for travellers, 
but as often as not a hiding-place for betjars (horse-stealers) 
who do not look upon their thefts as anything repre- 
hensible, since if horses run wild on the face of the earth 
they see no reason why they should not appropriate them. 

A band of black-eyed gipsies was fiddling on the plat- 
form as we arrived at one of the desolate little country 
stations at which the train stops before reaching Pesth. 
They were wild, unkempt creatures, dark as Indians, 
and played with the same astonishing fire as those I had 
heard in Vienna, and though their instruments were 
certainly nothing to boast of, it was extraordinary what 
they were able to get out of them ! 

But never, to my dying day, shall I forget the gipsies 
I heard that same night in Pesth. They came and 
played in the hall of the hotel where we had arranged to 
stay for two or three days. The landlord said to me, 
" Ah, you are in luck ! There is no such other ' Zig- 
euner ' band in the whole country. When Liszt was here 
he kept them playing half through the night." And so 
did I ! I half -ruined myself over them. Never have I 
spent money so recklessly I felt I really could not bear 
to let them go. More than ever did I feel as though I 
had suddenly been brought face to face with my Doppel- 
ganger, as if some impassioned lover of happiness and 
freedom, who had once been myself, had threaded her 
way through the wild mazes of that mad, fantastic music 
to look into my eyes, to claim recognition, to remind me 
of those splendid, vanished days ! Ah ! she needn't have 
been afraid of my denying her ! Every drop of blood in 
my veins claimed her as my own my very own ! I 
longed to lay my hand in hers, to shake the dust of cities 
off my feet, and wander carelessly again through the 
beautiful world of golden days and starry nights, and 
drink deep draughts of ecstasy, and quench my thirst for 
ever and ever ! 



270 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

We did some sight-seeing during the two or three 
days we were in Pesth and crossed the river to visit 
Buda and the great white palace on the hill, but every- 
thing seemed tame after that music ! 

I recollect being very much impressed with the good 
looks of the Hungarians both men and women the 
former looked particularly well in national dress. I saw 
it worn by several men of the upper classes they had 
spendid figures and looked not only extremely picturesque 
but quite out of the way distinguished in their long 
cloaks, knee-breeches, top-boots, and the smart, military- 
looking astrakhan cap with the aigrette clasped right in 
front. I don't know if this dress is still habitually 
worn by Hungarian nobles in their own country, but I 
sincerely hope it is. It would be a thousand pities to 
give it up. 

Another thing that made a strange impression on me 
was a gipsy village through which we passed. The guide 
had not told us what to expect, and when he informed 
us that we had arrived, I thought I must surely have 
misunderstood him, for I saw nothing but a smoking 
field ! A few stark naked children were playing together. 
He then explained that the whole village was under- 
ground, and that the smoke we saw was curling up from 
the little hovels in which they lived. I had no idea 
that gipsies ever lived anywhere permanently, but was 
told that some of them did, though an enormous quantity 
tramped about all summer and only herded together in 
the winter when it was too cold to camp out. 

After our return to Vienna, we were invited to a party 
at the house of a very charming and good-looking Russian 
lady, a great friend of the Ferstels, by whom she went 
by the name of " Die schone Frau." Her name was 
Frau von Dutschka ; she was married to a wealthy 
banker, and her house was a rendezvous for most of the 
interesting people who passed through Vienna. The 
apartment in which she lived was a large and beautiful 
one, and one room was specially dedicated to music. 
On this occasion I was asked to play. After I had 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 271 

finished, an old gentleman came up to me, and, without 
even asking to be introduced, said to me 

" You have Slav blood in you, I am sure." 

I laughed and said, " Oh no, you are quite mistaken 
I am English." 

He answered, " I am absolutely certain you have Slav 
blood in you. Heredity is a subject I am specially 
interested in, and I assure you I am very seldom mistaken." 

" But," I said, " what in the world makes you feel so 
sure ? If you don't think I look English, you have only 
to look at my sister, who is quite unmistakably so." 

He said rather impatiently, " I am talking about you, 
not about your sister, and I say, after hearing you play, 
that even if you know nothing about it, you have either 
Bohemian, or Polish, or Russian blood in your veins." 

Well, it was evidently no use contradicting him, and, as 
he said good-night, he said 

" Write home to your people and try and find out 
whether I am not right." 

He had really interested me by the way he stuck to 
his opinion, so much so, that I wrote to my brother 
Fred and told him what the old man (he was a Member 
of Parliament) had said. I closed my letter with these 
words : " Of course I told him that he was quite mistaken." 

I was more than astonished when my brother wrote 
back and said, " Your old man was perfectly right, and 
you ought to be ashamed of yourself for not knowing that 
on our father's side there is Bohemian blood, and that 
several members of the family married Hungarians." 

And I've wondered ever since whether a gipsy wasn't 
among those Hungarians ! 

Just before leaving Vienna, Emmie and I paid a 
visit to the famous Abbe Liszt. We were taken to his 
flat by a clever, gay, young Austrian composer whose 
name, I am sorry to say, I have quite forgotten, and whose 
acquaintance we made through Viennese friends to whom 
Mr. Frank Schuster had introduced us. 

It seemed so extraordinary to see him dressed in a 
priest's cassock, though I suppose he was just about as 



272 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

little of a priest as it is possible to be ! He certainly 
wasn't able to say Mass. A friend of mine, who was inti- 
mately acquainted with the Roman society of Liszt's day, 
always declares that it is a well-known thing that he became 
an abbe" for the sole reason of getting out of a marriage 
which was being forced upon him. I can't vouch person- 
ally for the truth of this story, but I can imagine that 
such might very possibly be the case ! Liszt was made 
tremendously much of by a good many great ladies, and 
I believe fascinated quite an extraordinary number of 
women. I thought him ugly his face was covered with 
warts, but it was tremendously powerful. One could 
well imagine that he might exercise a very strong in- 
fluence over any one he chose. The long, very straight, 
white hair which framed his face seemed to differentiate 
him from any one I have ever seen, though, goodness 
knows, long-haired musicians are not unusual ! It was 
on that occasion that he told us about an experience of 
his with the famous gipsy band in Pesth when he kept 
them playing to him half through the night. After a 
while they said to him 

" Now, won't you play something for us ? " 

He did so, and just as he was about to leave the piano, 
the gipsy who led the orchestra came up to him and 
said 

" We would be very much obliged if you would play 
that piece once more." 

Liszt sat down and played it again. 

" What was my astonishment," he said to us, " when 
these men played the whole thing to me five minutes 
afterwards ! They played it quite marvellously, with an 
accuracy that was little short of a miracle." 

The next time I saw the famous old Hungarian was 
at St. James's Hall, when he was present at a performance 
of his oratorio St. Elizabeth. He died shortly after- 
wards. He wrote a Life of Chopin, which I do not think 
is very universally known. It quite fascinated me when 
I read it in my youth not that I really admired the 
style of the book (I believe it was originally written 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 273 

in French), which was much of it rather flowery and 
ornate, but it dealt with subjects that interested me 
enormously. He describes really well the subtle and 
peculiar fascination of the Polish women of the upper 
classes, and the way they used to exercise this fascination 
on the Russians, with whom they danced the famous 
mazourkas at balls that took place in Warsaw while 
Poland was secretly preparing for a great revolution. 
He relates how many a husband and lover and brother 
owed their lives to their womankind, whose charm was 
so great that the men who were under it could refuse 
them literally nothing. And he describes really bril- 
liantly the peculiar fascination of the mazourka as it 
is danced in Poland. I read only the other day, in an 
interesting article in a French review, words to this effect 
" The Czar's most subtle enemy in Poland is the 
mazourka ; it rouses feelings in the people that are 
impossible to stamp out, and as long as it is played and 
danced in the country, so long will the two nations con- 
tinue to hate each other." 



18 



CHAPTER XIX. 

THOUGH it was with real sorrow that I said good-bye to the 
dear Ferstels and to Vienna, to the charming apartment 
in the Maximilianplatz, to the lovely Opera house, and 
the Volks Theatre where I had laughed till I thought 
I should never leave off again to the beautiful medieval 
Stefans Kirche one of my favourite churches in Europe 
to the gay Ringstrasse with its Greek-looking Houses of 
Parliament, to the Votiv Church and the fine University, 
designed by Baron Ferstel, still, the idea of returning 
to London and of seeing all my good friends again was 
far too pleasant a prospect not to be thoroughly enjoyed. 
We went back to our old rooms in Albion Street which 
had been very prettily done up, and which looked really 
cosy and homelike. But evidently we were not half 
appreciative enough to suit our landlady. I remember 
how amused we were when, two or three days after our 
arrival, she came panting up from the kitchen, looking 
decidedly " sniffy," not to say outraged. 

" I must speak to you, ma'am," she said. 

"Well," I asked, " what is the matter, what is 
wrong ? " 

" Indeed, and it's ' What's the matter ' with Miss 
Emily, ma'am, ever since you've been back. 'Am and 
eggs isn't good enough for 'er England isn't nowhere 
nothing but ' Abroad ' doesn't do for Miss Emily now." 

I soothed her savage breast to the best of my ability, 
and I am sure she left the room persuaded that as far 
as I personally was concerned, Mazawattee tea and ham 
and eggs not " new laid " or " fresh " but just " eggs " 
were my own ideal breakfast, though I am quite sure I 
never said so ! But I hadn't been spending the winter 

in the society of a budding diplomat for nothing ! 

274 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 275 

I had written to Mr. Stanley Lucas from Vienna, 
telling him that I had composed a good many new 
" lieder." I had also asked him if he thought it would 
be possible to print them in a little album including all 
those other German songs of mine that he had already 
published. He agreed to do so, and, soon after my return 
to England, he brought out my first " German Album of 
Sixteen Songs " ; what is more, he paid me for them, 
and gave me a royalty on the album into the bargain. 
It sold splendidly, and very soon almost every singer of 
the day included one or other of the songs in his or 
her repertoire. 

That summer I also saw a good deal of an extremely 
interesting girl whom I had met at Mrs. GaskelPs house 
just before sailing for South America. Miss Edith 
Balfour known to her innumerable friends as " DD." 
afterwards became the second wife of Mr. Alfred Lyttel- 
ton, but when I first met her she was only sixteen and 
was still wearing her hair down her back. She was 
born in Russia, and spent some years of her childhood in 
Petersburg, but she told me she never, to her great regret, 
learned to speak Russian fluently. 

I took a very great fancy to her, for there was some- 
thing frank and fearless about this charming and 
picturesque child that was very lovable, something 
enthusiastic and tremendously alive that appealed to me 
quite irresistibly. I remember how amused I was at the 
way she plunged into any subject that happened to in- 
terest her. She threw herself into it, heart and soul, 
and was so absolutely and deliciously natural, so entirely 
absorbed in what was being discussed, that one very 
soon forgot to be only amused and became very genuinely 
interested oneself, though she was only a schoolgirl. 
Her conversation would range from politics and social 
questions to hats and Nebuchadnezzar an absurd but 
quite deliciously funny game into which I was initiated 
a few weeks later when I had quite unaccountably quickly 
become an intimate friend of the rest of the family. It 
was something like Dumb Crambo, but with this differ- 



276 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

ence you were only allowed a bath sponge and a bath 
towel as stage properties ! The bath towel was turned 
alternatively into Roman togas, Greek tunics, Highland kilts, 
Court trains, etc. etc., while the bath sponge was equally 
eclectic, and I have known it used as Yorick's skull, a 
sporran, and the emblem of the globe, when on one 
occasion I played the part of a great queen. Only once 
did I plead for just one extra adjunct ; the towel was 
right enough, but the sponge was worse than useless 
and I offered to give it up if they would let me have a 
hip bath in its stead. When, swathed in the bath towel, 
I finally rose from its depths as Venus from the sea 
though anything less like a shell and less like Venus 
than that bath and I, can hardly be imagined I was 
received with veritable thunders of applause by an 
audience consisting chiefly of little Balfour boys. Another 
time I swam across the stage in a black satin evening dress 
(fortunately not of the superior sort that " stands alone "), 
whilst DD. waved the bath towel from the opposite side, 
and the audience shouted, " Hero and Leander ! " 

That summer I went with them to Sweden, where 
Mr. Balfour had taken some shooting and fishing for 
about six weeks. We went to Yemtland and lived in 
little cottages that were scattered about the tiny village 
of Medstiigan. It was about thirty miles from Diifed, 
which was the nearest town, and was surrounded by 
lakes and pine forests. 

The journey from Hull to Bergen was a nightmare, 
but if anything can cement a friendship it certainly is 
the fact of being able to be sea-sick together in the same 
cabin, without actually hating one another ! I have 
heard love described as two hearts in one body, but never 
have I heard friendship described as two heads in one 
basin ! Life, however, is rich in experiences, as I have 
found out on more than one occasion ! How DD. and 
I have laughed over the conversation we had just before 
going on shore at Bergen (where,by the way, I was so anxious 
to see reindeer and elk that I mistook a large cat for 
some strange inhabitant of the Arctic regions who had 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 277 

wandered disconsolately South in search of food). Mrs. 
Balfour (Mummy, as she was always called, not only 
by her children, but by the many friends who loved her 
dearly) was never sea-sick, nor was her second daughter, 
May (now Mrs. Jack Talbot). They belonged to the 
favoured few who never get untidy or hot or dusty on a 
journey. Alas, DD. and I could not truthfully say 
the same ! As for me, I am one of those unfortunate 
people whose complexion grows a shade darker at the 
mere sight of a ticket-office, while the atmosphere 
of a railway carriage seems in some extraordinary way 
to affect my very clothes with what R. L. Stevenson 
calls " the inherent malice of inanimate objects." Pins 
which I have stuck half-way through my head, as 
well as through my hair, in the laudable attempt to 
keep my hat firmly on my head, begin a game of " general 
post " with the first lurch of the train. Buttons fly 
off my gloves, as I try to open the window, which in- 
variably sticks much closer than a brother every 
time I try to open it ! Coats that sat upon me like a 
dream at home, sleeves that were loose and comfortable, 
develop into the most frightful misfits as I try to lean 
back in the third-class carriage in which I now habitually 
travel not in the least by choice ; the coat proves to be 
too narrow in the chest and the sleeves so tight that cir- 
culation is seriously impeded. And on one occasion a 
skirt which was far too wide to suit the fashion of the 
day when I started from Broadway, became so extra- 
ordinarily tight by the time I reached Leamington, that 
instead of stepping from the carriage on to the platform, 
I halted on the step and then dived head-first into the 
crowd, landing on the pavement in a swimming attitude ! 

I feel I have now said more than enough to prepare the 
" gentle reader " for anything that may follow. 

Just before we landed in Bergen I rolled out of my 
berth and instinctively made for the looking-glass. 
Equally instinctively I recoiled. For in that one second 
I had realised that I was face to face with that legendary 
object the last straw ! Whatever could go wrong with my 



278 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

personal appearance had gone wrong. I was on the verge 
of despair when I caught sight of DD., and cheered up on 
the spot. She was much younger than I was, and ten 
thousand times better-looking, but she had been dogged 
by the same unmerciful fiends as myself, and was almost 
unrecognisable. As I realised this, I said in a faint voice 

" Oh, DD., how nice it is to be travelling together." 

Those two immaculate wretches (Mummy and May) 
had just been in to see us ; they looked the picture of 
health, bright and rosy and very smart in their neat 
travelling-suits, not a hair out of place, everything just right. 
The sight of them had almost maddened me it certainly 
had reduced me to the last stages of acute self -contempt, 
and it was just after they left our cabin that I fully 
realised DD.'s condition and made my treacherous speech. 

44 Yes," I went on, "we're so alike you, DD. darling, are 
every bit as hideous as I am, and look just as appalling ! " 

" What ? " she screamed. " What's that ? " 

4 ' Well," I said (I was getting more resigned every 
minute), 44 just you have a look at yourself in the glass." 

And then, in spite of everything, we had a good laugh. 
We were every colour of the rainbow except the right 
one, and both of us were almost blind with headache, but 
not so blind that we couldn't see a joke ! By the time we 
landed we felt a great deal better. Under these circum- 
stances the first, indeed the only thing to do is to avoid 
a looking-glass like the plague ! Recovery is literally im- 
possible while there is such a thing on the premises. I 
would have smashed every mirror on board that boat, 
even at the risk of being put into irons as a dangerous 
lunatic, rather than have run the risk of catching another 
fleeting glimpse of myself in the condition I was in ! 

The beautiful fjords of Norway are so well known, and 
have already been described such hundreds of times, that 
the best thing I can do is to leave them strictly alone. But 
I must say I revelled in every minute I spent on the breast 
of those quiet waters. Sometimes DD. and I sat together 
in a lonely part of the boat and sang folk-songs. I had 
brought my Chilian guitar with me, as I knew that we 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 



279 



would have no piano for six or eight weeks, and I think, if 
I am not mistaken, that DD. had also brought one with 
her. It was from her I first heard the delicious little 
Russian song that I afterwards adapted to Moore's poem, 
" A Finland Love Song." It became very popular, 
though I am sorry to say I did not get hold of the melody 
quite correctly. I never knew this till the other day, when 
a Russian friend in Florence sang it for me ; the difference 
is very slight, but there is a little dip in the beginning 
of the melody that greatly adds to its charm. It is the 
simplest of folk-songs, yet I have never sung this Russian 
version of it to any one who has not felt its almost irre- 
sistible tenderness. 

English Version. 



saw the moon rise clear 






snow ; Nor told my fleet 




hills and dales of 










rein - deer The way I wished to go. 

Russian Version. 






Spra - tal - sia mies - siaz za tutch - ku Nie 

y fe_^S N N , r * fc N 1 s- 

ho - chet on bol - she gu - Hatch. Dai - tie mnie va - shu 



rutch - ku 



K puil - Ru - mu serd - zu pri - jatch. 



280 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I have written the Russian words beneath without 
using the actual Russian characters ; but of course I can 
only give an indication of the way the words are pro- 
nounced, as there are letters in the Russian alphabet 
which are not in our own. The " u " is pronounced as in 
Italian. 

During the days we spent on board I noticed a man 
of about twenty-seven who, without in the least intruding 
upon us, always came and sat close enough to hear the 
words of our songs. His face was extremely expressive, 
and he really seemed to love the English, Scotch, Irish, 
French, German, Italian, and Russian folk-songs which 
we sang softly to ourselves in our secluded little corner. 
Of course he soon found out that we were English, and 
belonged to the large party of English travellers who had 
come on board at Bergen ; indeed we were far too 
numerous to be ignored. We were fourteen altogether : 
Mrs. Balfour, her seven children and myself, Lady Sullivan 
and her son and daughter, a cousin of the Balfours (Bob 
Harrington), and Mrs. Balfour's maid Ann, who had been 
in the family for years and called them all by their 
Christian names. She not only accompanied us into the 
wilds of Yemtland, but, according to one of the little 
Balfour boys, she almost expired there from the results of 
what he called " a spasm from an egg." A whole world 
of conjecture lies in these five simple words. Was the 
spasm due to the strange quality of the Swedish egg, or to 
the strange quality of Ann's English inside ? Which was 
at fault ? The question was passionately discussed at 
the time, but no really satisfactory conclusion was arrived 
at. I haven't the shadow of a doubt that there were 
faults on both sides. As the Spanish proverb says 

" Cuando no es man ana ? " (When is it not to- 
morrow ?) 

But to return to our fellow-traveller. One afternoon 
young Fred Sullivan came up to us and told us that he had 
been having a long talk with " the chap who is always 
listening to you two singing." He told us that he was a 
Swedish doctor, that his name was Axel Munthe, that he 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 281 

lived in Paris, but knew Italy well ; in fact, he had been 
in Naples all through the last frightful epidemic of cholera. 
Now he was on his way to Lapland. 

I looked at him with envy. Personally, I wished to 
push on rather farther than the North Pole ; still, Lapland 
sounded delicious. " Oh dear," I thought, " why can't 
one be every one and go everywhere ? " I said something 
of the sort, whereupon Fred said 

44 Shall I bring him up and introduce him ? " 

We eagerly assented. 

He was eventually presented to the rest of the party, 
and we made such friends that we invited him to come 
and see us at Medstiigan on his return from Lapland. He 
told us how he loved Italy : he described with real feeling 
the lovely island of Capri ; life among the fisher-folk ; the 
Bay of Naples (where none of the others had ever been) ; 
the strange and picturesque crowd of poor people with 
whom he had been brought into contact during his 
tragic experiences when the cholera literally decimated the 
stricken town. And then he told us that the letters he 
had written to the Stockholm Dagblad had been collected 
and had just been brought out in a small volume. 

" Oh," I said, " have you a copy with you ? I should 
so love to see it." 

He laughed and said, " No, I haven't, but even if I 
had it would be of no use to you, since you don't speak 
Swedish." 

" Well," I said, " surely I shall be able to pick up a 
good deal while we are in Yemtland." 

He looked incredulous, but I was so anxious to see 
the book my old longing to know more about the Italy 
that could rouse such enthusiasm in the hearts of the 
lucky people who had not been flung from Turin to 
Vesuvius, as a cricket-ball is flung from wicket to wicket, 
was so intense that at last he said he would send me 
the book from Stockholm. 

I have the volume still. On the flyleaf is written 

" Vous n'en comprendrez pas un seul mot." 

Well, he was wrong there, for I translated it, and it 



282 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

was published two years later under the title of, Letters from 
a Mourning City. 

We spent six delicious weeks at Medstiigan. Every 
one fished except Mummy and myself. One day I felt 
so dreadfully " out of it " that I determined to go down 
to the river and catch something even if it was only a 
cold. I'm bound to say I coaxed one of the boys to come 
with me in order to put on the worms, but though I 
turned my head away while he did it, it made me sick 
merely to think of what was going on. I actually caught 
one fish, but when the poor thing nibbled I felt such an 
unspeakable sneak that there and then I made up my 
mind that I had fished for the first and last time. Evi- 
dently Mummy must have gone though much the same 
experience, for when I said to her 

" Look here, Mummy, what do you really feel about 
fishing ? " 

" Well," she said, " when I don't catch anything I'm 
bored to death, and when I do, I simply hate it ! " 

Neither of us are real sportswomen, that is very 
clear ! 

Our attitude to fishing reminds me of a Viennese song 
I once heard sung by one of the attache's of the Austrian 
Embassy in London. The song relates how a young man 
met a young girl in the electric tram, and how, while 
making ardent love to her, he nevertheless combined 
business with pleasure and transferred her purse to his 
own pocket. The last line ran thus 

" Ja, die wahre Liebe war dass nicht ? " * 

But fishing was not always the order of the day. 
Sometimes we went for long excursions to some distant 
lake miles and miles removed from any human habita- 
tion. Those silent dark lakes of Sweden, surrounded 
by pines, are extraordinarily romantic. They give the 
impression of such extreme remoteness, that as one 
wanders along their deserted shores one realises what 
the child in the fairy tale must have felt when she reached 
1 Now this was not really GENUINE love. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 283 

the edge of the world and looked over the brink. I 
specially remember one of these lovely lakes, some thirty 
or forty miles from Medstugan ; it lay hidden in the 
heart of a dark, mysterious pine-forest, as a deep and 
beautiful love lies hidden in a lonely heart. There are 
some lines in an exquisite poem by the Irish poet, Herbert 
Trench " Deirdre Wedded " which I read many years 
later, but which now I always connect with that vision of 
northern beauty. These lines describe a forest 

" Dark with the swarth locks of ten thousand stems 
In naked poise. These make no rustle save 
Some pine cone dropt, or murmur that condemns 
Murmur." 

Do not these lines convey a wonderful impression of 
stillness, of profound and intense silence ? The mute and 
fragrant eloquence of all the pine-forests of the world 
seems to float between them. 

And I remember another day when I saw something 
so beautiful that it has never faded from my memory. 
I had lost sight of the rest of the party, and found myself 
standing absolutely alone in a vast, a tremendous land- 
scape on the top of a little hill surrounded by hundreds 
of other hills that rose from the surface of the earth like 
the sand-hills in the Sahara. On the distant horizon was 
the everlasting and irregular fringe made by the tops of 
the distant pines. The light on the hills was lovely ; the 
first shades of evening were just falling, and the silence 
was unbroken by a single sound. 

All of a sudden, while the spell of this extraordinary 
silence was upon me, I saw far away on a distant hill the 
lovely silhouette of a reindeer. It stood quite still for a 
few seconds with upraised head, drinking in the pure and 
splendid air. And then it disappeared. A few minutes 
later I saw a bonfire on another hill. Some Laps were 
travelling south, and had camped for the night beneath 
its shadow ; the reindeer, no doubt, belonged to them. 

They passed through Medstugan one day, and a tiny 
little woman belonging to the company came to the 
cot -age where DD. and I were staying. We were in the 



284 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

garden, and she saw one of the guitars lying on a bench 
near us. She picked it up eagerly and brought it to us. 

44 Play, play ! " she said in Swedish. 

I took it up and said to DD., " Let us sing her that 
little German Volkslied, ' Verlassen, Verlassen.' " 

She didn't take her eyes off us from beginning to end. 
She seemed utterly lost to everything else around her. 
As we finished the tender little melody, to which I sang an 
alto part, she suddenly buried her face in her hands and 
burst into tears ! She cried and cried, till we felt quite 
distressed. After a few moments she took up the guitar 
and stroked it lovingly. I only knew a few words of 
Swedish, but I managed to tell her that I would make her 
a present of one, and she was so delighted that I was more 
than glad to have had this happy thought. 

But one week when the rain fell steadily and with 
maddening persistency for four or five days on end, we 
had to give up our beloved excursions and had to amuse 
ourselves as best we could. It was then that some one 
DD., I expect suggested that we should all write stories. 
When they were finished, Mummy was to read them aloud 
to the whole community. 

Some of these stories were absolutely priceless, 
especially those composed by the younger boys. One of 
them, I remember, dealt chiefly with a Viking who had 
a beautiful wife ; he had met her, during the season, in 
London ! Another was a thrilling account of a brigand 
who terrorised Sweden from north to south, and who 
rejoiced in the really original name of " Foscoroso 
Stink." The juvenile author explained in another 
paragraph that he was a regular " Half -hair " ! I had 
imported this literal translation of Medio pelo from 
Chile, but I must say I never expected to hear the word 
applied to a fierce brigand ! 

He wrote another story some time afterwards about a 
man who had one side of his face bitten off by a hyaena 
in the Desert of Sahara. He went on to say that when 
the ghastly news reached his aged mother, it gave her 
such a vile shock that she died a few days later in a 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 285 

comfortable four-post bed. The unfortunate man's sisters, 
he told us, were last heard of in the poor quarters of 
Rome; and the story finished up with these words 
"It is needless to say what became of them I " 
Perhaps they also were bitten to death. Bad luck 
runs in some families. Hyaenas are not the only animals 
in the world, and I don't remember having ever heard 
that the poor quarters of Rome are specially celebrated 
for their scrupulous cleanliness ! 

My own contribution was distinctly sentimental, 
not to say melodramatic. It described the death agony 
of a little Savoyard organ-grinder. I had arranged that 
it should take place in a rat-infested cellar. The floor 
was strewn with the remains of a broken bottle, and it 
was pitch dark into the bargain. This dreadful scene 
took place in Paris, and I had taken care to describe a 
Punch-and-Judy show in the Champs Elys^es in the 
opening chapter, so as to have plenty of contrast. I 
shed copious tears over this masterpiece, which was 
laughed to scorn by every single member of the party; 
in fact, so unmercifully was I chaffed about it, that for 
days and days after it was read aloud I hardly dared 
show my face amongst them. 

And to such a pitch did I fall in the estimation of the 
little boys, that one of them said to me one afternoon 
" I say, Miss White, why aren't you married ? " 
Before I could even give him a bird's-eye view of my 
vie sentimentale, he said in a digage sort of way 
" Ah well, I suppose nobody ever asked you ! " 
Once we performed a play. Such a play ! I was the 
author by general request, in spite of my Savoyard story. 
DD. at that time was reading The Dialogues of Plato in 
Jowett's translation, and from time to time she quoted 
an extract which impressed me tremendously. But it 
didn't seem to impress Mummy to the same extent, for 
she announced quite coolly one day that in her opinion 
Socrates was an old bore ! After this I felt that Socrates 
ought to be introduced into the play, with DD. to repre- 
sent him, as she was the only one of the party who was 



286 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

on familiar terms with him. The rest of us, to quote a 
vulgar old woman I once heard of, " didn't speak beyond 
a bow." When the play was finished we got hold of a 
large barn and invited all the villagers to come and see 
it. The play opened in a gipsy's cave. The gipsy, a 
toothless lady of seventy summers, had, by some unholy 
means, fascinated a youthful knight of extremely pre- 
possessing appearance, and together they dwelt in perfect 
harmony in their unpretentious country house. One day 
a still younger knight asked for admittance, and was 
received by the loving husband with the following 
indignant speech 

" And who art thou, thou beardless youth, upon whose 
cheek there is scarce a trace of manly down ? How 
DURST thou intrude into the mountain home of this 
distinguished lady and myself." 

These words were hissed out by little Christopher 
Balfour, who said them so dramatically that he became 
absolutely crimson and nearly burst a blood vessel. He 
looked as if he were on the verge of an apoplectic fit of 
the worst kind ! It was here that it was thought judicious 
to introduce a calm note, so Socrates, draped in the bath 
towel, made his appearance. He was talking to himself 
and was lost in contemplation. He sighed deeply and 
said 

" From one to two, from two to three, from three to 
four, from four to five. Merciful Zeus ! when, oh when 
shall I reach the end of this most subtle argument ? " 

In the meantime Monty Balfour, disguised as a monkey, 
was performing antics all over the mountain home of the 
distinguished lady, while the villagers hurrahed their ap- 
proval and never took the slightest notice of any one else ! 

I don't think I ever enjoyed anything more in my life 
than those six weeks in Sweden, though I was almost 
disfigured for life by mosquito bites, and had to sit for 
one whole afternoon with my legs in a pail of water ! I 
had gone on my one and only fishing expedition in open- 
worked stockings, and this was the result. Monty 
Balfour and I were bitten to such a pitch that at last 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 287 

we decided to have our photographs taken together by 
the camera fiend of the party. Our faces were covered 
with white rags steeped in eau-de-Cologne and water, 
and anything more appalling than we looked cannot 
easily be imagined. 

Dr. Munthe paid us a visit whilst we were at Medstiigan, 
and we listened spellbound to his account of the little 
Laps he had visited, their tents, their reindeer, and their 
kindly, simple hospitality. Again and again we made 
him repeat his experiences during the cholera epidemic 
in Naples, and again I told him to be sure and send me 
a copy of his book. He strongly advised us to visit 
Dalecarlia before going south, and described the country 
and the peasants so picturesquely that I made up my 
mind to go, even if I went alone. None of the others 
seemed inclined to leave Medstiigan till it was absolutely 
necessary. 

On the evening of my departure from Medstiigan I 
felt very low spirited. I thought I was rather an ass 
to go and "flock all by myself" in Dalecarlia, when I 
might have had another jolly week with the rest of the 
party. 

However, the die was cast. Come what might, I felt 
I had committed myself irretrievably to plunge into the 
wilds of Scandinavia, and that I must stick to it, even if I 
perished there ! 

I addressed the entire party from the step of the tiny 
vehicle that was to convey me to the railway station at 
Dufed. I said impressively 

" Good-bye, children. This is a solemn moment. 
Heaven alone knows what may happen during the next 
few days. I may never see any of you again. I shall 
probably be dead by the time I return." 

But they weren't in the least impressed, and jeered 
at me en masse \ 

All the same, I felt that the journey was fraught with 
peril. I couldn't speak more than ten or twelve words 
of Swedish, though I once acted as interpreter for Mr. 
Balfour, whom, later on, I nicknamed "Macfiend," on 



288 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

account of certain little peculiarities ! (He in return 
called me " MacGush," so I got the worst of it.) How- 
ever, we could afford to abuse each other, as we were then, 
and are still, the very best of friends. On this occasion it 
happened to be pelting with rain. One of the peasants 
having called at the cottage with a message, Mr. Balfour 
said to me 

44 Now then, Maude Valeria, you say you know a little 
Swedish. Just ask this fellow if he thinks there is any 
likelihood of its clearing up." 

Well, I managed to ask the question, but I couldn't 
for the life of me make head or tail of the answer. This 
was distinctly humiliating. Mr. Balfour more or less 
intimated that I was a fraud, which sent me flying for 
dictionaries, " Svensk Parlors," and the equivalent of 
" Swedish without Tears." For one solid hour did I sit 
there asking that yokel the selfsame question. For 
one solid hour he repeated the selfsame answer, and for 
one solid hour Mr. Balfour and his entire family, clad in 
mouse-coloured mackintoshes, stood in the hall hanging 
on our lips. Mr. Balfour remarked at intervals 

44 You can always trust these fellows to know what 
turn the weather will take." 

At last, when it finally dawned upon me what this 
precious wiseacre had really been saying all the time, I 
could hardly speak for laughing. 4 ' Macfiend " by this 
time was almost foaming at the mouth with impatience, 
and the language that is supposed never to pass any 
lady's lips was not only passing his, but had taken up its 
permanent abode upon them ! It was quite pathetic 
to think that in another minute his beautiful faith in the 
Swedish peasant as weather prophet was, to quote his 
literary little son, to have a ' 4 vile shock." 

But I'm bound to say he laughed even more than I 
did when he was told that in answer to my question, 
44 Do you think it's going to clear up ? " the wretched 
youth had merely said about fifty times in succession 

44 1 don't know." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 289 

I was absent for about five days. Needless to say, 
I was not devoured by elks, nor did a belated Viking 
make the slightest attempt to carry me off. I met 
several very fat Swedes on board the boat that took 
passengers from one end of the lake of Dalecarlia to the 
other, and ceased to wonder at their circumference when 
I saw the amount of beer they managed to put away ! 
I must say it never seemed to have the slightest effect 
upon them. Saturday and Sunday I spent in a little 
village on the borders of the lake, where the peasants, 
without exception, wore the extremely picturesque 
national dress. 

On Sunday I watched them row across the lake on 
their way to church ; each boat was decorated with a 
little fir tree, and the effect of all these moving trees 
on the smooth water was perfectly fairylike. Consider- 
ing that my only guide in Dalecarlia consisted of Dr. 
Munthe's account of the cholera in Naples, I managed very 
well indeed ! It doesn't sound very practical, I must 
confess; but with the help of a pocket dictionary, and 
a persevering nose which was buried for hours at a time 
between the pages of the Resebreffrdn Napoli, which was, 
I believe, the title of the book, I really learned so many 
words that I began to translate the book there and then. 
This sounds a far greater achievement than it actually 
was ; heaps of words are so like English and German 
that it was really quite easy. 

On the evening of the fifth day I joined the Balfours 
and Dr. Munthe in Stockholm, and for at least half an 
hour after my arrival I enjoyed something of a popular 
triumph. I had piloted myself successfully through 
Dalecarlia, and in spite of the most ghastly prophecies 
on " Macfiend's " part, I had not been laid prostrate 
by the high-heeled French boots I insisted on wearing 
on every occasion, and which he assured me in extremely 
highly-coloured language would be the death of me ! 
And then we all parted. The Balfours returned to 
London, Dr. Munthe to Paris, and I went via Copenhagen 
(where I stayed a few hours to see the Thorwaldsen 
19 



290 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Museum) to Korsor, and from thence to Kiel. I was 
going to spend a few days with friends in North Germany. 
The crossing by moonlight was perfectly heavenly ; 
I walked up and down the deck, while the soft and 
balmy air blew across my face, and every now and again 
I turned to watch the fast disappearing shores of the 
Danish coast. And while I was on that quiet sea, Hans 
Andersen and his lovely fairy tales took complete posses- 
sion of me. Dear Hans Andersen, how I love him ! How 
I pity the child, how I pity any one, who has not suc- 
cumbed to the spell of surely one of the greatest magicians 
who ever lived ! He has filled the world with beauty, 
with tender and lovable images. I have only to read 
The Snow-Queen, The Little Mermaid, The Story of the 
Eleven Swans, The Ugly Duckling, to feel young again, 
deliciously, absurdly young, with that happy, buoyant 
youth of the heart, so much more precious a possession 
than the youth of the body, which lasts, alas ! so tragically 
short a time, whereas the other can last as long as life 
itself, and is able to strew our path with summer roses 
to the very, very end ! 






CHAPTER XX. 

THAT winter my life changed to some extent. I received 
so many letters from people asking me to teach them my 
songs, to give them pianoforte lessons, and to play pro- 
fessionally at their musical parties, that at last I made 
up my mind to oblige them all ; and notwithstanding 
that this naturally took up a good deal of my time, I 
found that it didn't interfere to any great extent with my 
usual work. I wrote a very great number of songs that 
year. Many of them are printed in two volumes that 
were published a few years later by Messrs. Pitt & 
Hatzfeldt under the title of New German Album. I set 
several poems by the Hungarian poet Petofi, some more by 
Heine, and as a result of the journey to Sweden I set a 
few poems by Bjornsen, Hans Andersen, and Carl Snoilsky. 
I also set a good many French poems. Perhaps the 
best known of these is Sully Prudhomme's " Ici-bas." 
Monsieur Jules Diaz de Soria, to whom it is dedicated, 
sang it most beautifully. I dare say there are many of us 
who remember his lovely baritone voice, and the absolutely 
perfect way he sang certain French songs " Cre*puscule," 
and " Serenade," by Massenet, for instance. His singing 
was full of fascination and charm. The voice was not 
a very big one, but its quality was absolutely perfect. I 
remember thinking on one occasion, "If a palm tree 
could sing, it would sing like de Soria." 

There was something extraordinarily exotic in his 
voice which also suited his appearance admirably, for he 
looked exactly like an Oriental. When he sang a love 
song he held one spellbound. The beautiful voice, so 
warm, so soft, so languorous, but which at times could 

be fierce and passionate, exercised an almost hypnotic 

291 



292 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

influence on many people. Involuntarily one dreamed 
of love, intense, voluptuous, in some far-away tropical 
island. I think it was that year that I also wrote the 
duet, "It is na Jean," dedicated afterwards to the late 
Alfred Lyttelton, in memory of his first wife. It is, of 
course, very difficult to remember just exactly when 
certain songs were composed, and I must have written 
quite thirty or forty while I lived in Albion Street. It 
was there that I wrote the four songs from" In Memoriam," 
which were introduced at the Monday Pop. by Mrs. 
Hutchinson, and to which I have referred in an earlier 
chapter. Mr. Lionel Tennyson was among the audience at 
St. James's Hall that evening. (He said to me once, " I am 
so tired of people asking me if I am the Tennyson's son 
that now I always say, c As a matter of fact he's my 
father.' ") He wrote to me next day asking me if I would 
go down to Aldworth with him to play them to his father. 
He also asked me if I thought Mrs. Hutchinson would 
care to sing them to him. Of course we both accepted 
the invitation with the greatest pleasure, and spent a day 
and night at Hazlemere at his charming country house. 
It was the first time I had ever seen the poet, though 
his face, of course, was perfectly familiar to me, as I 
had seen it in innumerable photographs and engravings. 
He made me feel rather nervous at first, his manner 
was so brusque. And he knew absolutely nothing about 
music, which made it extremely shy work for Mrs. Hutchin- 
son and myself to sing and play for him. Afterwards 
he had a long talk with me about the way he thought 
words might be set to music. But it was a way that 
most certainly could never be carried out effectively, 
even nowadays, when, to quote a contemporary French 
critic, M. Louis Laloy, " Le developpement disparait de 
la musique a me"sure que s'y introduit le caractere." 
For instance, in the line 

"Be near me when my light is low" 

he would have liked some ethereal sort of rendering of the 
word " light " and some dark sound for the word " low." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 293 

I explained to him that it was really impossible 
to break up musical phrases in that way ; that almost 
any musician would agree with me that it is the spirit 
of the poem the " something " that lies between the 
lines of all fine poetry that he tries to translate into 
music, not the exact meaning of each word (though, if 
he be anything of an artist, he will certainly not write 
the word " sleep " on B flat in alto, nor will he mark it 
"JJ feroce ! ") 

I don't think, however, that I convinced him in the 
least, and no more was said on the subject. After he 
had heard the songs, we talked about everything else 
under heaven and earth except music, which, to my 
relief, was left strictly alone ! In the evening he made a 
very great impression upon me by his reading. He had 
a strange way of chanting his poetry which, personally, 
I thought very impressive, especially in pieces such as 
the " Ode on the Death of the Duke of Wellington." 
When he read out those beautiful words in which he 
speaks of him 

" As the greatest only are 
In his simplicity sublime " 

it affected me very much indeed. I think he saw how 
much I was enjoying and appreciating it, for he spoke 
very kindly to me and said, " I'll read you some more." 
Then he read some extracts from "Maud" and "Boadicea." 
To my very great surprise he said, a propos of "In 
Memoriam," that he had not personally experienced a 
great many of the feelings expressed in the poem. This 
was rather a shock to me, for I must say I had personally 
felt every single word of the four songs from the same 
poem that I had just set to music. However, I have 
heard other authors make the same remark. The late 
Marion Crawford went so far as to tell me that no one, 
no novelist, was really sincere in his work. Well, he was 
a novelist himself, and I suppose he spoke en connaissance 
de cause. All the same, if Anna Karenina is not sincere 
if most of Tourguenieffs stories are not sincere then 



294 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

what in the name of literature is sincere ? The best 
friend I have in the world is a novelist, and I have heard 
him say not only once, but repeatedly, " I have put my 
real self into my books far oftener than I have put it 
into my conversation with most people." And I can only 
say that his books those portions of his books where 
he speaks as author, where he reflects, criticises, etc. 
are so exactly like the man himself, that whoever reads 
the novels of Robert Hichens knows him not only well 
but very well indeed. 

I went out a great deal that year ; not that I cared at 
all for going out for its own sake, but it interested me 
immensely to make the acquaintance of the really cele- 
brated men and women whom I was constantly invited to 
meet. I often went to delightful luncheon-parties at No. 
4 St. James's Square, the town house of Lord Cowper. Earl 
Cowper, to give him his full title, had been Lord-Lieutenant 
of Ireland for several years, and was the very best type of 
English aristocrat, very handsome indeed, distinguished, 
courteous, and the kindest, the most agreeable of hosts. 
Of his wife, who became a dear friend, I will speak a little 
later on. I often heard public affairs discussed at their 
table by men who were members either of the House of 
Lords or the House of Commons. With Lord Beacons- 
field in the one House and Mr. Gladstone in the other, it 
can easily be imagined that there was plenty to talk about. 
How interesting it was during some great crisis to hear it 
discussed by those who were really behind the scenes ! How 
interesting, after some big speech by Mr. Gladstone, for 
instance, to hear the comments on that speech by men and 
women who knew the great man not only personally, but 
often intimately, and who discussed both speaker and 
speech from a totally different point of view to those who 
were only able to follow public events by the light of their 
daily papers ! 

I have often thought how curious it was that during 
the first seven or eight years of my grown-up life I should 
have had so few real friends among other musicians, 
artists, writers, etc. workers like myself. That was a 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 295 

privilege, a very real joy that was to come into my life in 
later years. But, greatly owing to my friendship with 
Mary Wakefield and Mr. Spencer Lyttelton when I was so 
young, I was thrown from the very outset into their world, 
and their world was the big world, where one met big 
people at quite the top of the tree, and where I very often 
was the only person on one of the lowest branches of that 
tree ! Many people in that big world were genuine lovers 
of music, and made me so welcome in their midst that it 
would have been strange indeed had I not enjoyed myself 
amongst them. Several of them became true and faithful 
friends, and in almost every instance were most agreeable 
and delightful acquaintances. 

But there was one woman in that big world whom I 
really loved, and that was Lady Cowper. She was one 
of those rare women one meets but seldom, but whom one 
remembers and loves to the end of one's life. Her whole 
character was built on broad and splendid lines there 
wasn't a small thing about her there was a nobility, a 
capacity, for strong feeling in her that appealed to me 
more than I can say. She was the type that G. F. Watts 
must have had in his mind when he painted his allegorical 
picture, " And she shall be called Woman." In this 
picture, which I saw for the first time in the great painter's 
private gallery, the ideal woman is represented with her 
head in the clouds, her feet planted firmly on the earth, 
her hands outstretched in the act of giving flowers twine 
themselves about her body, bright-winged birds fly 
round her, her thoughts are in heaven, but she herself 
is on the earth, sent by Almighty God to be a blessing to 
her fellow-creatures. 

I will tell one story which is very characteristic of Lady 
Cowper. I was sitting with her one day in her little 
sitting-room at St. James's Square when she said to me 
suddenly 

" Maude, if you were in trouble, would you come to 
me?" 

I said, " What do you mean ? what trouble ? " 

She said, " If you were in any money trouble, if you 



296 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

were worried, would you come to me, would you let me 
help you ? " 

I said quickly, " Oh no, no I couldn't accept such a 
thing . . . ! " 

She answered, " It isn't kind of you to say that it is 
putting a value on money that it simply doesn't possess." 

I forget what I said to this, but she went on 

" I have asked you here very often since you have been 
playing professionally, yet I never felt never that you 
would think I was taking advantage of our friendship when 
I asked you again and again to play for me. Did you ever 
think of it in that light ? " 

" Oh," I cried, " how can you think such a thing, even 
for a second. I love playing for you it is a joy to me " 

" And don't you think it would be a joy to me if I 
thought you would let me help you over a difficult 
moment, if such a moment came to you ? I am very rich, 
and you are not. What might make a great difference to 
you would make hardly any to me." 

I was so touched I could hardly speak. 

" Well," she said, " what do you say now ? " 

I answered, " I never thought of it in that light, but 
should I ever need anything I will come to you without a 
moment's hesitation." 

" That's a promise ? " 

" Yes." 

Some months later I wished to give a concert. To 
give a concert in London isn't so simple an affair as it may 
seem. In old days it cost twenty guineas to hire St. 
James's Hall, and though I never employed an agent 
while I lived in England, and was always assisted, free of 
charge, by fellow-artists, still, what with advertising, 
printing, etc., one seldom spent less than seventy to 
eighty pounds, and one had to sell tickets to that amount 
before one made a farthing. It was not a matter to be 
undertaken lightly when one could not afford to lose that 
sum. On this occasion I thought 

" I shall ask Lady Cowper to lend me the 4 saloon ' at 
St. James's Square." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 297 

And I wrote her a note telling her that I wanted to give 
this concert. I added, " You told me to come to you if I 
needed anything ; well, if you will lend me your beautiful 
room it will save me twenty guineas, and that will be a 
t emendous help, I can assure you." 

By return of post I received her answer. She wrote 

" DEAREST MAUDE, Alas ! you have asked me the 
one thing I can't do for you. The workmen are in 
possession of No. 4, and won't be out of the house till long 
after the date you have fixed for your concert. But you 
will let me send you this little present, won't you ? 
Yours affectionately, KATIE C." 

And a cheque for twenty guineas the price of St. James's 
Hall was enclosed in the envelope. 

For a moment I was utterly taken aback. I didn't 
know what to do. And then I remembered our con- 
versation ; I realised the contemptible, the cheap, quality 
of the pride that could refuse to accept a present offered 
in such a spirit by such a friend, and I wrote her a little 
letter and asked her if, in memory of her darling kind 
thought, she would accept the dedication of a little song 
I had just written to words by Christina Rossetti. The 
song was called " Did One but Know." It was reviewed 
a few weeks later by the celebrated novelist, Mr. Robert 
Hichens. He was quite a young man then, an excellent 
musician, and at that time was musical critic of the World. 
I did not know him personally till several years later, and 
only saw his criticism by chance. I was travelling, and 
had bought the World to read on my journey. He has 
written many a brilliant piece of psychology, but he never 
summed up a situation better than when he wrote the 
following words : 

" This is a song of tender memories." 

It is indeed ! Of course he was only alluding to the 
words and music, but never do I see the title-page with 
its inscription, " Ded. to K. C." without remembering 
the dear friend who said to me, " Would you come to me 
if you were in trouble ? " 



298 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Well do I remember the first time I met her. I was 
playing at some big house for a charity connected with 
soldiers and sailors which had been got up by the late 
Lady Dartmouth. She was very much interested in the 
subject, and I offered to help her. I said I would play 
professionally for a short time at parties, and would give 
her whatever I made. I had never played professionally 
in my life, though by this time I was well-known as a 
song-writer. 

I have forgotten who gave the party. I have for- 
gotten every incident of that evening except one. As I 
got up from the piano, someone offered me a chair it 
happened to be next to Lady Cowper's I can't even 
remember whether anyone introduced us to each other. 
I only remember that she laid her hand on my arm and 
looked so kindly at me that my heart went out to her 
there and then. She said 

" I know why you are playing professionally, I have 
just been told, and I have been wondering whether you 
would play at my house next week ; it would be such a 
pleasure to me if you would." 

And what a pleasure it was to me ! And how often 
and often afterwards did I not go to St. James's Square 
and to Panshanger, her beautiful country home in Hert- 
fordshire which I learned to love. I never connected 
her with any of her other houses with Wrest, for instance, 
though I stayed there and enjoyed the visit. Wrest 
always seemed to me a show place, a perfect place for 
entertaining guests, for ceremonious dinner-parties, for 
great balls. Panshanger, on the contrary, impressed one 
as the owner's beloved home ; though it was a large place, 
one never felt its size, and one always felt its charm. 
I loved staying there. 

Breakfast at Panshanger was one of the most delightful 
experiences in the world. Instead of coming down to the 
usual dining-room, which, however beautifully decorated 
and furnished, almost invariably bears the stamp of a 
room from which, after all, one is very glad to get away 
once the meal is over, one went straight from one's cosy 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 299 

bedroom down to the picture gallery, a lovely room 
where one was only too glad to linger. Two or three 
large round tables were always laid there for the house- 
party, and the arrangement of the tables was a picture 
in itself. Fruit was always served at breakfast, and I 
remember thinking that the great clusters of white and 
purple grapes, the peaches and pears, that lay side by 
side in tall and graceful dishes, made such a picture in 
themselves that it was almost a pity to touch them. 
I always tried to slip into a chair facing the large French 
windows at the far end of the room, through which one 
caught glimpses of stately old trees and a vast expanse 
of smooth green lawn that sloped gently down to the 
edge of the delicious river that flowed through the grounds 
dark woods beyond gave a touch of mystery to the 
scene. When the sun streamed into the room on a 
radiant morning in May or September, and the light 
from outside mingled with the soft, rich glow of the 
beautiful pictures on the wall, the effect was absolutely 
lovely. I have always cared intensely for the beauty 
of the early hours of the day ; the quality of that beauty 
seems to me to draw its essence from something that is 
very close to God. There is something soul-stirring, 
something extraordinarily vital, in that beauty, some- 
thing that makes a splendid appeal to all that is highest, 
to all that is most generous, in one's nature. Mountains, 
woods, gardens, lakes all seem to me more eloquent seen 
by the radiant light of morning. 

The loveliest picture that hung on the walls of the 
Panshanger gallery was the picture known as the " Little 
Cowper Madonna," one of Raphael's greatest master- 
pieces. Mr. Berenson, the well-known authority on 
Italian art, classes this picture as regards quality and 
beauty with two of the most celebrated Raphaels in the 
world the famous " Madonna di San Sisto " in Dresden, 
and the " Madonna del Gran Duca " in the Pitti Palace. 
It was bought by the third Earl Cowper when he was 
British Minister in Florence, somewhere about 1780, and 
was certainly one of the greatest of the many art treasures 



300 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

at Panshanger. But no longer does the lovely picture 
hang in its former place in the room I loved so much. It 
was bought only a short while ago by Messrs. Duveen, 
and is now in America. 

Lady Cowper died last year. After the death of her 
husband she led a very retired life. Never did a woman 
love a man more devotedly than she loved him. She 
told me one day she had never given a thought to any 
other man in all her life. She added, " Had Francis not 
asked me to marry him, I would have remained single 
all my life." 

Lady Cowper was not only a very grande dame, she 
was a splendid woman. The whole-hearted love that 
belonged to her husband shed its beautiful light on others, 
on poor and rich alike. She left no one out, and though, 
alas, she was childless, many a faithful friend survives to 
" rise up and call her blessed." 

I shall never forget the afternoon I was introduced 
to Jenny Lind. It was at an afternoon party at Sir 
Frederick Leighton's beautiful house, to which I was taken 
by Mr. Santley. The room was crowded with celebrated 
people. The Joachim quartet was playing, and he was 
singing some of my songs in which he had asked me to 
accompany him. After the music was over the introduc- 
tion took place, and I was very much surprised to find 
myself talking to an old lady in rather a severe poke bonnet. 
Somehow I had never imagined a Swedish Nightingale 
in a bonnet of any description whatsoever ! She rather 
frightened me, and I felt subdued and chastened. 
I have a vague idea that she said she hoped I was 
grateful to God for the gifts He had bestowed on me. 
While she was speaking to me I felt as if I were being 
birched ! I longed to say something frivolous, some- 
thing positively outrageous. Perhaps if I had, she would 
have felt like the old lady in the story who complained of 
some one being excessively rude to her one Sunday 
morning just as she was starting for church. 

" He spoke to me," said she, " such as no 'usband 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 301 

wouldn't never have done ; 'is language was well, there ! 
And me with me bonnet on ! ! " as if that fact made the 
offence ten thousand times more heinous. 

A charming dinner-party I remember was one given 
by Mrs. Earle, the author of that delightful book, Pot- 
pourri in a Surrey Garden. On this occasion I had the 
pleasant experience of being recognised by someone I 
had not seen for years and by whom it was certainly very 
agreeable to be remembered. I sat that evening almost 
opposite, but not quite, to an extremely distinguished 
and nice-looking man. That he was a soldier was quite 
unmistakable. He was also the guest in whose honour 
the dinner was being given, and I had considered myself 
very fortunate in having been invited to meet him. It 
was shortly after the Ashantee War. He looked at me 
every now and again, but it was so long since we had met, 
and then it had only been once, that I felt rather shy of 
responding to the look of recognition which I thought 
I saw in his face. After dinner, when the men came up 
to the drawing-room, he came straight to me, and, after a 
few charming words of greeting, he referred to our first 
meeting, and said 

" I wonder if you would play me an ' Ave Maria ' you 
wrote and that you sang for me that afternoon ? " 

I was very much astonished at his remembering the 
song, and told him so, but it seems that he had really 
liked it so much that he had never forgotten it. Of course 
I played it to him, and after that he asked me for one 
thing after the other, and finally took a chair and sat by 
the piano for the rest of the evening, never moving till 
his carriage was announced. I felt quite guilty, though 
I must own that I felt very pleased. But Mrs. Earle, the 
kindest of hostesses, put me completely at my ease the 
next moment. She realised that I had not in the least 
purposely monopolised her guest, and no sooner had he 
left the room than she came up to me and said laughing 

" Well, you have made a conquest of our ' One and 
Only ! ' I congratulate you." 

It was Lord Wolseley, who had liked and remem- 



802 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

bered my " Ave Maria " a very simple Ave Maria indeed, 
that I wrote long before I went to the Royal Academy of 
Music, and that Mr. Santley once sang very beautifully 
at the Carmelite Church in Kensington at Benediction. 
I had met him one afternoon at tea at Lady Westbury's, 
and I remember the way both he and she smiled at a 
perfectly idiotic remark I made, and for which I hope my 
youth alone was responsible. Lord Wolseley then Sir 
Garnet seemed so fond of music that at last I said to him 

" Do you sing yourself, Sir Garnet ? " 

" Oh no ! " he answered quickly. 

" Ah," I said, " then I expect you play ? " 

He smiled and said, " I'm afraid I neither play nor 
sing, fond though I am of music 

" Oh," I said, " I am surprised. Do you mean to say 
you can't do anything ? " 

He laughed, and so did Lady Westbury. 

" Well," he said, " I do try sometimes to do one or 
two other things to the best of my ability." 

I thought him very attractive indeed. There was 
something lovable and perfectly simple about him. Not 
long ago, when I read in the paper an extract from a letter of 
his that was quoted in a sermon preached at Rochester 
Cathedral by Bishop Taylor-Smith, Chaplain General of 
the Forces, and that was written in 1895, I was more than 
ever confirmed in the idea that my impression had been a 
correct one. In this letter he said 

" Thank you most cordially for your kind and very 
welcome letter almost all my life I have been a firm 
believer in the efficacy of prayer, and rejoice to think 
that you and the Army and Navy Prayer Union remember 
me in your prayers to God. The last day I ever saw 
poor dear Charles Gordon, when he left England never 
to return, he told me he mentioned three men in his 
daily prayers, and that I was one of the three. He was 
an old and valued friend, but I always felt and more 
than ever feel now that I was never worthy to pipe-clay 
his belt for him." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 308 

Another friend whom I often saw during my Albion 
Street days was the late Lady Sandhurst, who asked me 
to give her piano lessons. She was such a dear ! I 
remember once teaching her a fugue and saying to her 

" Look here, the way you play this fugue reminds me 
of a giddy old maid ; it really isn't staccato from be- 
ginning to end." 

When I went to give her the next lesson I found to my 
amusement that she had written at the top of the page 

" This page is to be played like a married woman." 

Lady Sandhurst never wore any but tailor-made 
dresses in the daytime, and she looked so fresh and neat 
in them that I wasn't the least surprised to hear a very well- 
known man say the other day 

" When I think of all the hideous and outrageous 
fashions of to-day and remember the simple and neat way 
the late Lady Sandhurst always dressed, I experience a 
feeling of positive relief at the mere thought of her." 

It was at Spencer House, where Lady Sandhurst often 
stayed with her sister, Lady Sarah Spencer, that I first met 
the beautiful Millicent, Duchess of Sutherland, when she 
was only eighteen years old. She was perfectly lovely then, 
as the whole world knows, but when I saw her a very short 
time ago I thought her lovelier than ever. Youth has a 
thousand delicious attributes who doesn't adore it, for 
what is in itself more entirely adorable ? But still, it is 
the years that often bring a look into the face that appeals 
quite irresistibly to those that have eyes to see and hearts 
to feel, and that makes what was very lovely in the begin- 
ning, still more attractive and a hundred thousand times 
more interesting. 

I think I really must relate the following conversation 
which has taken place for the last twenty-five years at 
almost every house I have lunched at when the cigarettes 
have been handed round. 

" Have a cigarette, Maude ? " 

" Thanks so much, but I don't smoke." 

41 Oh ! 'since when ?" 



304 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" I've never smoked in my life I don't know how to." 

" Oh, come now. I've seen you heaps of times." 

" No, you haven't. I've only had a cigarette in my 
mouth once, for exactly one second, and I hated it." 

Nobody believed me ! They declared I wouldn't 
smoke with the rest of them because I thought it improper ! 
(Psychologists good ones evidently don't grow in the 
hedges!) And at last I began to feel like John Knox 
when the cigarettes made their appearance. I haven't 
the slightest objection to any one smoking though I simply 
hate to do it myself, because, though I love the smell of a 
cigar or cigarette, I really loathe the taste. 

It was the late Lord Rowton, I recollect, who once 
persuaded me to try a cigarette at Panshanger, when I 
was quite a girl. We went for a walk together, and my 
one and only attempt at smoking was made in the strictest 
privacy in the park at Panshanger ! I never think of 
Lord Rowton without a little pang of pleasure, for once, 
years and years after the smoking lesson, I met him again 
at Panshanger. Lady Cowper said to him as I came into 
the room 

" I forget if you know Miss White ? " 

He answered, " I've never forgotten a woman who 
loved her sister very much indeed." 

I suppose I must have spoken about Emmie to him 
during that memorable smoking lesson, but I was more 
than touched by those kind words. 

When I wasn't composing or teaching, I worked hard 
at Dr. Munthe's book, which I was quite determined to 
translate into English. The subject interested me im- 
mensely, and I could see, in spite of my scanty knowledge 
of Swedish, that it was written by a passionate lover of 
Italy and a most sincere sympathiser with " les de"sherite*s 
de la vie." My old longing to revisit Italy grew stronger 
with every page I translated, and when I wrote the closing 
lines of the chapter called " Golfo di Napoli," I made up 
my mind that there was only one thing on the earth 
which I really longed to do, and that was to revisit the 
lovely bay, on which I had been sailing in imagination 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 305 

throughout the long, dark, English winter, during which I 
had been a good deal alone, for my dear sister had been 
away in Algiers. She had been very ill with bronchitis, 
and the doctor had insisted on her going South to avoid 
the fogs. I specially recollect one night when I was 
translating the chapter " How Puck was lost " (Puck was 
Dr. Munthe's immense dog to whom he was devotedly 
attached). In this chapter there is a description of the 
thieves' quarters in Naples, which, though it is quite short, 
is graphic and vivid to the last degree. Dr. Munthe 
relates how, just as he was leaving the dark old church of 
Santa Maria del Carmine, which is in one of the poorest 
quarters of Naples, and where he had turned in for a few 
moments' rest after a hard day's work among the cholera 
patients, he saw a man enter the church. He threw him- 
self on his knees and despairingly and repeatedly struck 
the ground with his forehead. The sacristan was just 
about to lock the church up for the night, and the man, 
on becoming aware of this, rose hurriedly and left the 
church. As Dr. Munthe passed the spot where he had been 
kneeling, he stumbled over a long Calabrian knife. He 
overtook the man, who snatched it out of his hand. He 
looked so pale, so desperate, that the doctor asked him if he 
was in distress. 

The man muttered, " Cholera in casa." His child was 
dying. 

Dr. Munthe explained who he was, and when the man 
was fully convinced that he had nothing to do with the 
municipal authorities he asked him to come with him. By 
this time it had become quite dark. They turned off into 
a narrow little street, and then began to thread their way 
through a succession of sinister and evil-smelling alleys 
in the heart of the quarter chiefly dedicated to thieves and 
Camorrists. They went through a vaulted passage and 
crossed a yard, pulling up finally before a wretched little 
hovel. It was in this hovel that the child lay dying of 
cholera. Dr. Munthe has described the scene so admirably 
in the book I translated, that it is useless for me to do 
so here. I have merely mentioned this opening scene 

20 



306 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

because, the night I translated it, I entered so completely 
into the spirit of it that at last I felt it was not only the 
doctor, but I also, who was following the unhappy thief 
through the maze of wretched little passages that were lit 
at intervals only by the tiny lamp that hung before 
the Blessed Virgin's picture. When the servant came to 
ask me if I didn't think it was time for me to be in bed, I 
was so startled that I only then realised how completely I 
had been carried out of myself. 

I finished the book that summer at a lovely little place 
in Switzerland called Champ6ry, where I again spent the 
summer holidays with the Balfours. I sent the first two 
or three chapters to Dr. Munthe after I had finished 
them, and when he saw that I really had managed to 
translate them, he gave me a considerable amount of 
help by writing the meaning in French underneath each 
word that he felt sure I would not understand. This 
saved me endless trouble, and I got on far quicker with 
the rest of the book. Once or twice I went over to 
Paris for a few days, and we then read the rest of the 
book together, translating it viva voce so that I should 
be able to work quicker. On these occasions I generally 
stayed at Rue Kepler, at my old school ; poor Made- 
moiselle Lalande, who no longer was able to control my 
actions, thought I was on the high road to perdition 
when I told her that I spent the afternoons and some- 
times the evenings working with Dr. Munthe, who was 
laid up with a bad foot. He had insisted on going up 
Mont Blanc, and had hurt himself very seriously. There 
is a poetical and attractive account of this ascent in 
another of his books called Vagaries. One day, while 
we were at work, we heard a ring at the bell. We instantly 
told the servant not on any account to let any one in, for 
we had so very few days at our disposal that we did not 
wish to sacrifice even quarter of an hour of our time. 
But just before I left, the servant brought in the visitor's 
card. I could have cried with disappointment. It was 
Bjornson who had called. On my second visit to Paris, 
Dr. Munthe was up and about again, and one day he 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 307 

and Mademoiselle Lalande ran across each other. They 
hated each other on the spot. Mademoiselle Lalande 
totally disapproved of him, though she did not know him 
from Adam and knew absolutely nothing about him 
except what was really eminently respectable, i.e. that 
he was a nephew of the Swedish Minister in Paris, and 
that I was translating a book he had written and of 
which he certainly had no reason to be ashamed rather 
the contrary. But no ! He was " un docteur que cette 
bonne Maude a de'niche* au fond de la Suede et dont nous 
ne savons ab-so-lu-ment RIEN." He was equally un- 
complimentary, in fact, he was ten thousand times more 
uncomplimentary, for that summer he said to Emmie 
and me 

44 Vous savez, votre fameuse Mademoiselle Lalande ! 
eh bien, elle n'est pas jolie. C'est un singe ! " 

We were furious and indignant, but we really could 
not help laughing when he added after a moment 

44 Encore est ce que je demande pardon aux singes ! " 

After that we felt that any attempt to reconcile them 
to each other would be worse than useless. 

On one of these visits to Paris I went with Baroness 
Jacques de Gunzburg to a party at the house of Princesse 
Mathilde, who married the Russian Prince Demidoff. 
She was quite an old lady then, but she still received a 
good deal, and that evening her salon was filled with many 
distinguished people. Someone asked her in front of me 
the name of the delicious perfume on her handkerchief. 

She answered 

44 Cela s'appelle * Bouquet d'Orleans.' Avouez que je 
n'ai pas de prejudices ! " 

Princess Mathilde, as everyone knows, was related 
to the Emperor Napoleon in. 

It was dear Mary Wakefield who suggested showing 
my translation to the famous publisher, Mr. John Murray 
of Albemarle Street. She had read a good deal of the 
book in manuscript, and had, I believe, already spoken to 
him about it. To my intense delight he accepted it at 
once, and it was published in the spring of 1887. It was 



308 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

very well reviewed by all sorts of important papers 
The Saturday Review, Athenceum, World, Literary World, 
etc., and I must say when I read in the latter paper that 
I had accomplished my task " with a taste and delicate 
charm of expression that cannot be too highly praised " 
I felt nunc dimittisy from top to toe! And when 
even Matthew Arnold said something kind about it 
well, I was set up ! But when one night, at a party 
at Lady Tennant's, her daughter (Lady Ribblesdale) came 
up to me and said 

44 Do you know that Mr. Gladstone has had part of 
your translation of Dr. Munthe's book read to him by 
his daughter, and he says he would like to have a little 
talk with you," I was so pleased that I almost forgot 
to be nervous at the idea! What had interested Mr. 
Gladstone was Dr. Munthe's account of the terrible 
state of the prisons in Naples. He talked to me for some 
time on the subject, and towards the end of the con- 
versation he said 

44 Ah, what a dreadful pity it is that Italian is not 
universally taught to the youth of the present day." 

He said that in his opinion Italian was the first foreign 
language a child ought to learn, and I must say I think 
so too (though this last observation of mine savours 
perhaps a little too strongly of the remark made by 
the lady who said, 44 St. Paul and I quite 'agree that," 
etc. etc.). 

We were still talking when Sir Charles Tennant, who, 
no doubt, thought I had had more than my share of the 
great man's conversation, came up and said to him 

44 Mr. Gladstone, the Duchess of wants so much 

to speak to you." 

I remember my unbounded satisfaction when he said 
a little impatiently 

44 Very well, very well, but I haven't done with Miss 
White yet." 

And for the second time but not for the last time 
in my life, I thought him a perfect darling ! 

That same summer I saw a great deal of Herr Raimond 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 309 

von Zur Miihlen. I don't believe a finer Lieder singer 
ever lived. People's opinion used to differ about his 
voice, but real musicians were unanimous about his 
splendid interpretation of German music. Rubinstein 
once put off a performance of one of his works because 
Von Zur Miihlen was not able to sing in it. To hear 
him interpret Schumann and Brahms was a perfect 
revelation. To my intense delight he took up a great 
number of my German songs, and I can only say that I 
adored the way he sang them. He sang with splendid 
rhythm, with such pathos, such deep feeling, and 
often with such real ecstasy, that it was quite impos- 
sible for any musician not to feel enthusiastic over 
him. And it was delightful, perfectly delightful, to re- 
hearse with him. No trouble was too great he 
would try effect after effect till he got the right one. 
What happy hours he and Emmie and I have spent to- 
gether in the little sitting-room at Albion Street. He 
was one of the most amusing human beings I ever knew 
into the bargain. Never shall I forget my sister's un- 
qualified amusement when one day he almost insisted 
in mounting her on a donkey that, harnessed to another, 
was waiting patiently to be milked for the benefit of an 
invalid in a house close to ours. 

" We will at once go for a ride in Hyde Park," he 
announced, as he prepared to mount the other himself ! 
My sister isn't what may be called " hide-bound " by 
convention, but she struck at this, and the ride was 
abandoned amidst roars of laughter. Sometimes I had 
very funny letters from him. His English was most 
original once, when he wanted me to accompany him 
at a concert he wrote 

"DEAR FRIEND, Will you pour upon me the basin 
of your kindness, and play two of your songs for me ? " 

I answered that I'd be only too delighted to allow 
him to plunge about in the hip-bath of my benevolence. 
And once, when I wrote to ask him whether it was possible 



310 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

to go to Carlsbad as early as February, he answered by 
return 

" DEAR FRIEND, Carlsbad is open all the year 
round for roundish ladies ! " 

He also informed me in one letter that he had been 
ill, something the matter with his foot. The doctor 
advised sea baths, whereupon he wrote 

" . . . So next August I go to dip the marble white- 
ness of my left leg in the Baltic." 

Dear old Zur Miihlen he was a real good friend, an 
incomparable artist, and not only the most amusing 
but one of the most interesting companions any human 
being could wish to have. He sang my songs divinely, and 
I remember how pleased I was to hear that once, when 
he had been to stay for some days with Bismarck, the 
great man had asked him to sing my song "Mit Kosen 
und Lieben " every evening without exception, and that 
his wife had said one night as he sang the last notes 
(and don't I know how he sang them !) 

" Nein ! dass ist zum Fenster heraus zu springen ! " 

I accompanied him once at one of his Berlin recitals. 
He sang a good many of my German songs that night, 
among them were, " Ich fiihle deinem Odem," " Die 
Himmelsaugen," " Liebe, Liebe," and " Wir wollten mit 
Kosen und Lieben." 

Princess Bismarck was at the concert, and we tactfully 
put this song at the end of the group, so that she was at 
perfect liberty to jump out of the window when it was over, 
without missing any of the others ! 

That summer, 1887, I had rather a nasty little break- 
down, and the doctor sent me to Carlsbad. I was there 
for about four weeks with Emmie, who would not let 
me go alone. In the train we met an extremely hand- 
some and kind old gentleman, who said he also was 
going to Carlsbad. He heard us say that we were going 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 811 

to stop en route somewhere or other, and offered as 
he himself was going straight to Carlsbad to engage a 
room for us. He said the place was always so full that 
we ought not to risk going there without having secured 
suitable lodgings. He was as kind as he looked, and 
was perfectly charming to us during the whole of our 
visit, and what is more, he was so witty and amusing that 
he kept us in fits of laughter from morning till night. 
One day, however, he appeared before us with a face as 
long as a fiddle. He wasn't recognisable. " Ah, mes 
enfants," he cried, " quelle scie, mon Dieu, quelle scie 1 " 
He then told us that he had received a letter from a 
man in Belgium begging him to look after a friend of his, 
who, accompanied by his son, a boy of about fourteen, was 
going to Carlsbad to do a cure. 

" Voila la fin de nos belles promenades," he cried. 
" Ah sacre notaire ! car c'est un notaire par dessus 
le marche*." 

He then began to suggest all sorts of sinister ways of 
getting rid of him, but it was the last one that was really 
priceless ! He suggested that he should be lured into 
the sewers and left there ! 

" C'est a," he cried triumphantly. " Nous allons le 
fourrer la dedans ! Nous nous garderons bien de lui apporter 
quoi que ce soit pour manger ou pour boire il mourra 
de faim et je ne vous dirai qu'une chose, mes enfants : 
s'il meurt en odeur de saintete, eh bien, il aura de la chance" 

When the notaire and his son finally appeared on the 
scene, it was all we could do not to laugh in their faces. 
The father took an unholy fancy to Emmie, and entreated 
her to accompany him in his walks abroad. But as he 
refused to wear anything but carpet slippers, Emmie re- 
fused, on her part, to be seen in his company ! We were 
often obliged to lunch together, but then, at all events, 
the carpet slippers were under the table ! Our old 
Belgian friend used to take him off to perfection, when 
we sometimes managed to get away for a walk " a trois." 
One day he said 

" C'est tout de meme gentil comme il vous admire, 



312 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

mes enfants ! Vous rappelez vous cet apres-midi quand 
il a dit a son fils, 4 Celestin, mon fils, prends ton carnet 
et inscris moi tout ce quelles disent ce sont deux 
demoiselles tres distingue*es. Tache de leur ressembler.' 
Et puis le fils qui disait, ' Mais, papa, je ne suis pas une 
fille ! ' Et puis le notaire qui lui re*pondait, 4 Aussi, 
mon fils, je ne te demande pas de changer de sexe ce 
serait excessif.' " 

Far from spoiling things for us, the notary and his 
son were a source of everlasting amusement, and when 
our four weeks were over, and we were obliged to say 
good-bye to them, and to our kind old Belgian friend, 
we were quite cut up. We had privately informed 
the latter that in our opinion the notary was a singularly 
perfect specimen of a " Half hair." The old gentleman 
literally leaped at the word he knew exactly what it 
meant. Alas, he had every reason to know what it 
meant, for when he asked us to visit him at his own 
home he said sadly but whimsically, " Venez, mes 
enfants, cela me ferait bien du plaisir. Je ne suis pas bien 
heureux, voyez-vous. Ma femme Eh bien, voila ! ce 
n'est pas seulement un notaire c'est un demi-cheveu. 
II vaut mieux que vous le sachiez tout de suite." 



> 



CHAPTER XXI. 

IT was in the winter of 1887 that I was introduced to a 
lovely girl, who subsequently became one of my closest 
and dearest friends. I had gone alone to a Saturday 
Pop. to hear the incomparable Joachim quartette, and 
was in one of the side seats in the middle of the hall. In 
the stalls, opposite the platform, and quite close to me, 
sat Monsieur Jacques Blumenthal. Just before the 
music began he whispered to me 

" Do you know who is sitting just behind you ? " 

I felt sure from the expression of his face that it was 
someone well worth looking at. " Who is it ? " I said 
with interest. 

" Well," he said, " don't look round for a minute. 
It is Mary Anderson, She is sitting immediately behind 
you, with Miss Minnie Chappell." 

I knew Miss Chappell slightly, and I took good care 
to look round as soon as the minute was up ! (That 
famous minute that I am quite positive never yet took 
anyone in !) It seems that Miss Chappell had recog- 
nised me, and had told Mary Anderson that it was I 
who had composed "Absent, yet Present," a song of which 
Mary was very fond, and which she often sang. So 
when we were introduced to each other, we had some- 
thing to talk about " right away," and from that moment 
something like twenty-seven years ago we have been 
dear friends. She was then at the very height of her 
really phenomenal success, and was acting in the Winter 9 s 
Tale at the Lyceum. Everyone knows how much beloved 
she was both by the public and by her friends, and every- 
one knows how lovely she was ; but everyone doesn't 
know that a few days after that introduction both of 



314 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

us went down for the week-end to Wilton, the country 
house of the Earl of Pembroke, and that when we re- 
turned to London in the second-class carriage in which 
I always travelled, and into which she unhesitatingly 
followed me, we both talked till it was literally a case of 
" Rien ne va plus," and if we didn't sink gasping into our 
respective corners towards the end of the journey, it is 
because both of us were blessed are still blessed with 
what a friend of mine calls " titanic " constitutions ! When 
we reached Paddington, a number of people recognised 
her, and began to stare at her and to nudge each other ; 
but Mary didn't seem to realise that she was attracting 
any more attention than any other second-class passenger. 
She was, with characteristic absence of vanity, wearing 
a sealskin cap that entirely covered her lovely brow and 
the lovely hair which refuses to become grey, and is still 
the same colour as that of her little girl ; and she was 
chiefly occupied in poking at our luggage with her 
umbrella, so as to draw the attention of the guard 
to it. 

Before we separated we agreed that we must certainly 
see a good deal of each other, an agreement that was 
carried out to the letter, for some years later we lived 
next door to each other in Broadway, a lovely little 
village in Worcestershire, which is still her home, though 
it is, alas, no longer mine. We had a thousand things 
in common that we were both Catholics was, in itself, a 
link ; we both had the same joie de vivre, the same delight 
in Nature, the same love of all that was beautiful and the 
same horror of all that was morbid. Both of us enjoyed 
a humorous situation up to the hilt, even if the joke was 
against ourselves. To hear Mary Anderson laugh is to 
this day a real joy. It makes me laugh even to write 
about it, for I never heard anything so joyous, so absolutely 
light-hearted. 

I recollect a Sunday-evening supper at Court Farm, 
her delightful country home, when the only people present 
were Mary and her husband (Tony de Navarro), Robert 
Hichens, Father Leonard, the Rector of the Passionist 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 315 

Monastery in Broadway, a dear friend of the whole 
party, and myself. 

Father Leonard was not talking very much. He 
hadn't a chance. He was listening alternatively to what 
we four were talking about. Tony de Navarro and 
Robert were talking hard at their end of the table, and 
Mary and I were talking harder still at ours ! All of a 
sudden Tony called out 

" You two gramophones are talking at such a rate 
that Roberto and I are positively unable to keep up any 
sort of conversation ! " 

We protested indignantly, and Mary retorted with 
some heat 

" I like that ! Why, you and Roberto have never 
ceased talking from the moment we sat down ; and if 
Maude and I are gramophones, I should very much like 
to know what you two call yourselves." 

Tony answered without a moment's hesitation : 
" Roberto and I are two seolian harps, to whom it is a 
privilege to listen ! " 

And on this occasion Father Leonard like Father 
O'Flynn didn't " lave gaiety all to the laity," for he, as 
well as the rest of us, including Mary herself, had a good 
laugh at the way her husband had turned the tables 
against her ! 

Mary is perfectly frank on the subject, and I heard 
her say one day 

" Very well I own to it I do like talking ! I just 
LOVE to hear the words rolling out of my mouth ! " 

I am not half as honest. I invariably argue the point, 
and have sometimes almost convinced myself that a fish 
is eloquent in comparison to myself. 

But I have never convinced anyone else on this sub- 
ject ! 

Another time, at breakfast, she and I had a tremendous 
religious discussion. She stuck to her point and I stuck 
to mine like a leech, till she finally said triumphantly 

" All I can say is, St. Thomas Aquinas agrees with 
me." 



316 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I was just going to say something about St. Augus- 
tine agreeing with me, when Tony said, laughing 

" Give it up, Maude. It is no use trying to get the 
best of Mamie once she has enlisted Tom on her side ! " 

The discussion ended, as all the discussions at Court 
Farm invariably do end, in a good laugh all round. I 
remember at one of our cosy, jolly little dinner-parties I 
was talking nineteen to the dozen to my neighbour, while 
Tony was vainly trying to tell me something for the third 
or fourth time. At last he became desperate. 

" Maude," he almost shouted, " your tongue may be 
tripping with wit, but your ears are plugged with ego- 
tism. For Heaven's sake give me a chance ! " 

Another time he described a very thin woman of our 
acquaintance as " a rare being, built on the voluptuous 
lines of a pine plank." 

But Mary wasn't married in those days to which I 
must now return. 

I know no one who can tell a better story than Mary 
Anderson. Whether it be a Jew story, a nigger story, or 
a ghost story, she tells it equally well. In fact, she tells 
ghost stories rather too well, for she once almost frightened 
me to death with one ! It was during this same visit to 
Wilton. The whole atmosphere of Wilton, even from 
outside, is suggestive of a past that was both splendid 
and interesting ; and this impression is certainly not 
diminished as you enter the hall decorated with armour 
(among which hangs the coat-of-mail which once was 
worn by Anne de Montmorency, Connetable de France), 
and pass into the double set of cloisters round which the 
house is built. It was the famous Sydney Herbert, who 
was War Minister at the time of the Crimean War, who 
was the father of our host, George, 13th Earl of Pembroke, 
and of Lady Mary von Hiigel, both dear friends of Mary 
Anderson and myself. He was half Russian a son of 
Ekaterina Worontzoff, the daughter of the famous Simon 
Worontzoff, one of the only Russian noblemen who 
loyally refused to acknowledge the great Catherine as 
Empress when she unjustly^usurped the throne. He 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 317 

broke his sword in two as a sign that he would not serve 
her as her subject. For this he was exiled. I suppose 
he was too important a personage to be got rid of in any 
other way ! And he was sent to England as Ambassador, 
where he lived for the rest of his life. His only son, 
Michael, was the famous soldier who conquered the 
Caucasus and whose statue stands in the principal square 
at Tiflis, where I saw it two years ago. Part of the garden 
at Wilton was laid out by Ekaterina Worontzoff, and it 
was in one of the beautiful and lofty rooms that look on 
to this garden that we were still seated round the tea- 
table one evening, about half-past five, when someone 
asked Mary Anderson (" M. A.," as Lord Pembroke always 
called her) to tell one of her famous ghost stories. There 
was no large house-party Lady Brownlow, Mrs. Henry 
Gaskell, Mary, and myself were the only week-end guests. 
The room in which we were assembled was the one 
known as " The Single Cube," and it opened out on to a 
still larger and more beautiful room called " The Double 
Cube," whose walls were covered with family portraits by 
Van Dyck. 

A dark evening in December close upon Christmas, an 
old historical house, a stately and fascinating room only 
partially illuminated by shaded lamps and the logs that 
burned in the great fireplace, a subdued light that lent a 
touch of mystery to the dark old pictures on its walls but 
that was not sufficient to enable one to see clearly into 
its many nooks and corners what better setting for a 
ghost story could be imagined ? 

There were three large windows in this room, around 
which heavy red damask curtains had been drawn and 
behind which it would have been easy enough for several 
people to conceal themselves. They also were in semi- 
darkness. The light, in fact, was almost entirely con- 
centrated upon the cosy tea-table round which we five 
women were comfortably seated when Mary began her 
ghost story. It was a gruesome tale a perfect crescendo 
of horrors. She told it in her own inimitable way, and 
after a few minutes my hair was almost standing on end ! 



318 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I couldn't take my eyes off her ; we all listened in breath- 
less silence, though every now and again one of us would 
start and look nervously around as a log fell forward 
in the fireplace and shed its light on her expressive face 
while she continued to speak in a hollow voice, accom- 
panied by dramatic gestures that increased the horror 
of each ghastly detail to an almost unbearable extent. 
At last she came to some such words as these, which she 
said in a sepulchral whisper 

" And then, a feeling of abject fear took possession of 
him, for he heard a sound so appalling, so unearthly, that 
he felt the blood freezing in his veins." 

The words had hardly passed her lips when we heard 
a deep groan ! It came from behind the red damask 
curtains at the farther end of the room Mary told me 
afterwards that she would have given anything to have 
been able to reproduce the look of terror on my face. She 
said it would have been a perfect fortune to her ! 

I started up and rushed out of the room as if pursued 
by a thousand devils, only to find myself in the moonlit 
cloisters. The statues (they once belonged to Cardinal 
Mazarin's collection) looked so ghostly in the dim light, 
and my nerves were so strung up, that had they stepped 
down from their pedestals and walked towards me I 
would hardly have been surprised. I tried to find my 
room and failed, and when at last I stumbled over a 
big dog, and the next minute almost ran into Lord Pem- 
broke, my relief was so great that I could have cried. 

" What is the matter, do tell me what is the matter ? " 
he said kindly. 

" Oh," I said, panting, " how thankful I am to see 
you ! How thankful ! " 

" Why, you are quite upset ! What on earth has 
happened ? " 

I told him the whole story, and still shivering with 
fright I spoke about the horrible groan we had heard at 
the selfsame moment that Mary reached the most blood- 
curdling part of her ghost story. 

He laughed heartily at the whole thing, and of course 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 319 

we found out almost immediately that the " horrible 
groan " had been produced by nothing more unearthly 
than a nice old dog who had been lying behind those 
heavy damask curtains ; it was he who had sighed so 
horribly opportunely just as Mary was describing the 
appalling nature of the unearthly sound that had sent 
me flying out of the room ! 

All's well that ends well, but before we separated for 
the night Lord Pembroke said to me 

44 Now you mustn't lie awake all night imagining 
horrors. Come and see where our rooms are they are 
close to yours, and if you are frightened, just knock 
us up." 

I don't believe it was possible to know Lord Pembroke 
without being fond of him he was so handsome, so 
clever, so kind. I came to know him very well indeed, 
and had a very strong feeling of affection for him. He 
was the most absolutely natural human being I ever met 
in all my life. 

Needless to say, I did not knock him or anyone else 
up that night. Instead of that, I made such a huge 
fire in my pretty bedroom that it is a wonder I didn't 
set the chimney ablaze ! But oh, what a comfort a fire 
is under such circumstances! I believe I lay awake 
till daybreak in order to make quite sure of it not going 
out. In fact, I felt very much as I did on a similar 
occasion when Mary told another of her flesh-creeping 
ghost stories quite late one night at my sister Emmie's 
flat in Queen Anne's Mansions. Just as she was leaving 
with her husband, and as I was preparing to go to my 
room, she said to me 

44 Why, you are quite pale ! What a goose you are. 
It hasn't made Emmie nervous ! It hasn't made me 
nervous ! " 

I said to her 

44 It's all very fine for you two you have Tony and 
Emmie has Toby (her husband), but I haven't anybody. 
For Heaven's sake ring the bell and order me a hot- water 
bag and a glass of port ! " 



320 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

I never heard the end of this, and even now I am 
always told that I need never regret not having married, 
since I am evidently of opinion that a hot-water bag is 
as great a protection as a husband, while a glass of port 
is ten times more comforting ! 

It was during that week-end visit that Mary invited us 
all to see her in the Winter's Tale. She said she would 
send Lady Pembroke a box, and it was arranged that 
after the performance we should all go to supper in what 
I believe is called the Beefsteak Room at the Lyceum. 
That was a delightful evening for me. It was the first 
time I had ever seen her in the Winter's Tale, a play 
that suited her to perfection, both as Hermione and 
Perdita. But it was as Perdita dancing that I shall always 
remember her. Even in these days of supremely beautiful 
dancing, anything more graceful, more poetical, more 
suggestive of youth and joy, it is impossible to imagine. 
I can't think of that dance without feeling strongly 
moved. It was absolutely lovely ! In addition to her 
radiant beauty, there was something innocent about 
Mary Anderson that made a very touching appeal to 
those who care about what is essentially pure. She 
sang as she came on to the stage, and the quite delicious 
quality of her voice arrested my attention from the very 
first note. It was rich and mellow, and she produced it 
beautifully. That I may not be accused of allowing my 
personal feeling of affection to run away with my judg- 
ment, I will only quote what Mr. Plunket Greene once 
said to me with real enthusiasm: " Had she been trained 
for the musical profession, she would have been the ideal 
Isolde of our day." 

The night of that little supper-party she wore a white 
dress and a little embroidered Greek jacket in which she 
was afterwards photographed. The photograph is included 
in those published in her own Memoirs, and is a speaking 
likeness of what she was in those days. Even now it is 
astonishingly like her, and I prefer it to any other. 

I didn't see much more of her that winter, for I was on 
the eve of going abroad. I was going to spend the winter 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 321 

in Italy. My travelling companion was to be a Spanish 
lady the widow of a Swedish artist, Hugo Birger a 
great friend of Dr. Munthe's. He had spoken to me 
about her, and had told me what a sweet and lovable 
woman she was. My sister Emmie was going to spend 
the winter with my sister Annie Compton. I wanted 
a companion, so I was only too pleased when she con- 
sented to come with me. 

About a week before I started I received a letter from 
Lady Brownlow asking me if I would come to Ashridge 
their beautiful place near Berkhamsted. She said the 
Prince and Princess of Wales were to be there. I knew 
that Lord and Lady Pembroke were to be there also, 
and though I always felt rather shy when I was invited 
to meet Royalties, I thought it would be really too idiotic 
to let that feeling get the better of me. So I accepted, 
and I am very glad I did, for it enables me to tell a little 
story about the Prince (King Edward vn.) that I think 
is very characteristic of his kindness and well-known tact. 

When the Royal party arrived we all went to meet 
them in the hall. I was naturally at the tail end of the 
little procession, as there were a great many important 
people staying in the house, who of course took pre- 
cedence. The Princess, however, recognised me, and 
shook hands. The Prince, to whom I had been intro- 
duced some time previously at a luncheon-party at 
Mrs. Hartmann's in Grosvenor Square, did not recognise 
me, and merely bowed as I made my curtsey like everyone 
else. Then they all dispersed. I remained for two or 
three minutes in the empty hall where some of my music 
was lying about, and was just putting it together, when 
to my surprise I saw Lord Brownlow coming down a 
little flight of steps that led into the hall. The Prince 
was immediately behind him. Lord Brownlow came up 
to me and said 

" Oh, Miss White, the Prince has just been telling me 
that he met you some time ago at Mrs. Hartmann's, and 
wants to know if you remember ..." 

Just then the Prince came forward, and shaking 

21 



322 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

hands with me said something about having met me 
at a luncheon-party there. And then we had a little 
talk. 

Did I remember ? Well, I wasn't invited every day to 
meet future kings, and I remembered it very well indeed. 
What I thought perfectly extraordinary was the fact 
of his having remembered meeting me. And I was 
really touched by the kindness and courtesy with which 
he returned downstairs to say these few words to me. 
There are not many people among one' s own acquaintance 
who would have taken the trouble to do such a thing 
had they not recognised one, but that day I realised 
that the courtesy and tact of the Prince had not been 
in the least exaggerated, and I thought it not only 
attractive but very lovable. 

At dinner that same night, just as we were about to 
leave the table, Lady Brownlow, who was wearing a most 
beautiful rope of pearls, gave a little exclamation of dis- 
may. The string had broken, and several of the pearls 
were rolling away in every direction. The Prince, who 
had of course been sitting next his hostess, immediately 
helped her to look for them. After this we all went in to 
the great drawing-room, where coffee was served to the 
Prince and Princess. I still remember the quite beautiful 
service that was used on this occasion. Afterwards coffee 
was served to the rest of the guests. We were all standing 
in different parts of the room, for, as everyone knows, it is 
not etiquette to sit down unless invited to do so by one of 
the Royalties present, and I remember Lord Pembroke 
whispering to me 

" Oh dear, oh dear, I wonder if you are as tired of 
standing on your hind legs as I am ? " 

I played a good deal that night ; and next morning I 
had a very kind little note indeed from Lady Brownlow, 
in which she asked me if I would not prolong my visit 
until the departure of the Prince and Princess. They 
were going to have theatricals, she said. But it wasn't 
possible for me to do so. I had promised faithfully to be 
at a farewell dinner that dear Mary Wakefield was giving 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 828 

for me at her cosy flat, and I wouldn't have missed it for 
anything in the world. 

Lady Brownlow quite understood, and then asked me 
if I would send them certain draperies, etc., from Liberty's 
which they required for the theatricals, and of course I 
undertook the commission with pleasure. 

That evening we also had theatricals. I've no doubt 
they were not as elaborate as those that took place at 
Ashridge, but I am quite certain they were quite as 
amusing. There were very few guests. I think the 
party consisted of Mary Wakefield, Miss Marion Terry, 
Mr. Berkeley Squire, Mr. Frank Schuster, my sister Emmie, 
and myself. No doubt there were two other men, but I 
can't remember who they were. Mr. Schuster and I 
played Nebuchadnezzar for their benefit ; we did a scene 
from the Bride of Lammermoor. 

Mr. Schuster laughed so hopelessly while I dressed him 
up as the Master of Ravenswood that I thought we 
would never get to the end of his toilette. It really is 
rather difficult to pleat a bath-towel into a kilt, and to 
fit it on to a man who is literally doubled in two ! While 
I was finishing him off with the large bath sponge as a 
sporran, he literally brayed ! And so did I ! 

I started for Italy next day ; and oh, the difference of 
this visit ! I first spent two or three weeks on the 
Riviera, to which I had never been I remember meeting 
Lady de Grey (now Lady Ripon) one day at Cannes, and she 
carried me off to dine at the house where she was staying. 
It was quite a long way out of Cannes ; a lovely villa 
looking over the sea. The garden, which I only saw 
through the windows, seemed to me to slope right down 
to the shore. That villa beneath the shadow of the lovely 
Esterel mountains has always remained in my memory as 
an ideal home in the South. A copy of Tolstoy's Ma 
Religion, which had just come out, was lying on the table 
of the pretty sitting-room into which I was shown, and 
I remember reading it with great interest whilst waiting 
for my unknown hostess. I think, but am not sure, that 
the villajbelonged to one of the Rothschilds. 



324, FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

(I forgot to say that my Spanish friend very Spanish 
indeed, for she was born inside the walls of the famous 
Alhambra at Granada had joined me in Paris.) 

After we left Cannes we spent some delicious days in 
Mentone, where we were joined by Dr. Munthe, or 
" Munthe," as we always called him, and then we went to 
Florence, where Miss Burke (sister to the Mr. Burke who 
was assassinated at the same time as Lord Frederick 
Cavendish) had very kindly secured us rooms. She was 
a great friend of Lady Cowper's, who had given me a 
letter to her, as she was living in Florence at the time. 
It was during that visit that I made the acquaintance of 
Mrs. Hodgson Burnett, whose story of Little Lord Faunt- 
leroy was extremely popular just then. At her house I also 
met Mrs. Janet Ross, the author of several very interest- 
ing books on out-of-the-way parts of Italy. I remember 
playing to her, after which she dedicated a very charming 
poem to me. I was tremendously pleased, though the poem 
was far too flattering; still I am afraid there is no 
doubt that one can swallow a good deal when it is nice 
enough ! That same afternoon I also met the hero of 
Ouida's novel Friendship. He was a tall, good-looking 
man to whom I could well imagine any woman losing her 
heart. We had a long talk together. He spoke Italian 
and I spoke Spanish, but we both understood each other 
perfectly. I am always sorry I never met Ouida. The 
people in her novels are undoubtedly preposterous, but her 
descriptions of scenery are, I think, very lovely, and on 
that subject she writes with real poetry. I was speaking 
about her one day to a friend, who said 

" I was not personally acquainted with her, but my 
friend, Lord Lytton, knew her well. One day I met him 
in Florence he was looking excessively tired quite 
exhausted. I asked him what in the world he had been 
doing to reduce himself to such a state. He answered 
with a deep sigh 

" ' My dear fellow, I've been sitting the whole afternoon 
on a tiger-skin with Ouida ! ' 

We went straight from Florence to Capri, where we 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 825 

remained about a month. Dr. Munthe came with us. 
Madame Birger and I stayed at a little inn on the Marina, 
and he, I believe, stayed at Anacapri. How I enjoyed 
that month ! I spent long heavenly days at the Villa 
di Tiberio, up on the heights, lying on the grass, revelling 
in the beauty of the wonderful shore opposite, and dream- 
ing the hours away to my heart's content. Sometimes I 
wandered down to the sea, to the Faraglione rocks ; some- 
times I took a donkey and went up to Anacapri, and this 
time,you may be sure,I found my way to the lovely fairy -like 
Blue Grotto which was even lovelier than I had imagined 
it ; and once we all three went right across to the other 
side of the island. It was absolutely wild then. I haven't 
been to Capri for many, many years, and only trust it is as 
lovely now as it was then. One night we all went up to 
Anacapri, where several fishermen and girls danced a 
tarantella for us. The music was absolutely irresistible ! 
We looked on for some time, and then we began to realise 
that, after all, we were neither of us Methuselahs ! 

" Come on," cried Munthe. " Why shouldn't we dance 
too ? " 

I hesitated for a moment. I didn't know the steps, 
and said so. 

" What does it matter ? Just let yourself go to the 
music ! Corraggio ! Avvanti ! " 

How we danced under that vine-covered pergola ! It 
was a splendid moonlight night there wasn't a breath 
of wind. Naples was visible in the distance with its 
flaming girdle of lights, and the contrast between our 
moonlit, star-lit mountain ball-room, and the glittering 
town, from which the sea divided us, was too beautiful 
for words. Every ten minutes or so one of the pretty, 
dark-eyed girls went round with wine, and we were obliged 
to make a pretence of sipping at the tumbler every time, 
or our hosts would have felt aggrieved. At last I had 
to give in. I had danced till I could dance no more, and 
we still had to walk down to the Marina to our little inn 
by the sea. 

But before we left, Munthe had made a delightful 



326 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

arrangement with one of the fishermen. He had coaxed 
him into letting us have his big smack, in which we were 
to travel to Amalfi a day or two later. 

And to Amalfi we sailed one sun-bathed morning, 
across the heavenly Golfo di Napoli, which was like a 
sheet of glass, and even I was satisfied at last ! This was 
the way I had dreamed of seeing Italy this way and 
no other. We put up that night at the old Monastery 
of the Cappucini, and next day we all three went on 
donkeys to Ravello. 

Oh, the view from Ravello, from the terraces of that 
wonderful mountain garden ! the garden of which 
Wagner wrote : " At last I have found Klingsor's garden, 
at last I have found the garden of my dreams." 

I wonder if there is anything lovelier in the world ! 

Next day we drove to Paestum, where one hardly feels 
oneself in Italy, so tremendously and overwhelmingly 
Greek is the impression made upon one by the great 
temple dedicated to Neptune that now stands in solitary 
splendour looking out over the sea. That same afternoon 
we were all of us very nearly killed. Our horse took 
fright as we were crossing the piazza at Sorrento, and the 
next second he had bolted, and was making straight for 
the sea, which lay far below us. There wasn't even a 
railing round the piazza to prevent our fall, which would 
have been terrible. The struggle lasted for about a 
minute, during which we were pursued by a yelling crowd. 
The coachman jumped off the box, and tried to drag the 
horse back. Fortunately for Madame Birger and myself, 
Munthe remained on the box, and between them both 
they finally managed to stop him about two yards from 
the edge. It was a horrible experience, and one I shall never 
forget. They then took us to a restaurant and gave us 
some cognac. We certainly needed it ! After that we 
got into a little boat, and rowed to Prajano, a tiny village 
where a carriage was waiting to take us to Sorrento. 
The sea was not as smooth as the day before, and as I am 
so bad a sailor I immediately lay down in the bottom of 
the boat, hoping for the best, and preparing for the worst ! 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 327 

Munthe was very much amused at my careful preparations. 
He adored the sea and everything connected with it. 
Every now and again he got up and looked at me with the 
greatest interest. 

" Savez-vous," he said gravely, " que vous ressemblez 
absolument a Napoleon Bonaparte ? " 

I laughed feebly. I certainly didn't feel like him ! 

Then he sat down, and again I closed my eyes. 

After ten minutes or so he got up for the second time 
and again examined me critically. 

" Mais c'est une ressemblance vraiment 6tonnante ! 
C'est frappant ! C'est extraordinaire ! " 

I didn't dare move, but, squeamish though I felt, I 
couldn't help laughing, and the more I laughed the more 
eloquently did he congratulate me on my Napoleonic 
courage, my imperial dignity, my heroic fortitude ! At 
last we reached Prajano, from whence we drove by moon- 
light to Sorrento. 

I shall never forget that drive, that exquisite drive 
along the mountain road, that exquisite view across the 
dark-blue bay that lay spread beneath its canopy of 
stars ! It was an ideal Southern night, and for two 
or three miles before we reached Sorrento the soft wind 
blew the delicious smell of orange blossoms towards us 
the delicious smell that conjures up visions of the South 
so magically, and fills the lover of the South with such 
unspeakable nostalgia ! 

It was after that drive that, some weeks later, shut 
up in a room in London, I wrote, " So we'll go no more 
a-roving ! " 

And it was during that same visit to Capri, one splendid 
spring morning, that, in full view of the dancing waves 
of the beautiful bay, I wrote the music to Chamisso's 
poem 

Giojoso. 







Wir woll - ten mit Ko - sen und lie - ben 

which I dedicated to Mary Anderson. 



328 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

It was also during that trip that I wrote a good many 
of the short pianoforte pieces included in the Collection 
called, " Pictures from Abroad." 

On my way home I stayed a few days in Florence. 
There I met the late Mrs. Spender Clay who afterwards 
married Mr. Beresford Melville, brother to Mrs. Henry 
Gaskell. She asked me if I would stay with her in London 
and teach her little girl music. I said I would teach her 
anything she liked, on condition that my evenings were 
at my own disposal, and that I was perfectly free to 
acccept any professional engagement, etc., that turned up. 
I was anxious to make a certain sum of money, in as 
short a time as possible, for an object on which I had 
set my heart, and it was while I was with Mrs. 
Spender Clay that I thought of giving a performance at 
the Haymarket Theatre, the proceeds of which were to go 
to the fund I was trying to raise. Sir Herbert Beerbohm 
Tree, then Mr. Beerbohm Tree, met me one day at Mary 
Wakefield's flat, and told me that he would lend me 
the theatre on condition that I undertook to fill the boxes. 
I agreed to do so on the spot ! He then said he would give 
a performance of Gringoire with his company as his 
contribution to my fund. (For some time past my song, 
" The Devout Lover," had been sung every night in this 
play.) I was so delighted at the success of my interview 
that I went off to see Mary Anderson who then was living 
near Hampstead to ask her if she would also help 
me. She had not been acting that season. I told her that 
I thought of beginning the entertainment with a concert 
at which I would ask many well-known singers to perform, 
and then I asked her if she would recite something. 
To my delight she said she would ask Sir George Alex- 
ander then Mr. George Alexander to act a scene from 
Romeo and Juliet with her. The result of this com- 
bination was splendid. I sold every box in the house, 
except one, which I kept for my sisters and myself, and 
we were only obliged to advertise the performance once 
in all the papers, after which the entire house was sold 
out ! We cleared 240 that afternoon after all the 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 329 

expenses were paid. Everything went splendidly, and 
I asked Mr. Beerbohm Tree to accept the dedication 
of "So we'll go no more a-roving," in grateful remem- 
brance of his invaluable help. How well I remember it 
all ! I lunched that day at Carlton House Terrace, at the 
house of a dear, good friend, Mr. John Penn, who was 
going to the performance with a large party. I had 
come up to town that day from Ford Manor, Mrs. Spender 
Clay's place in the country, and had bargained for a 
whole holiday, and I had with me a little black terrier 
which Munthe had given me and to which I was very 
much attached. Mr. Penn suggested that she should 
be left at his house during the performance under the 
care of a housemaid ; we were all to meet there for tea, 
when she was to be returned to me. Just as I drove up 
to the door at about half-past five, John Penn ran down 
the steps to receive me. He looked rather worried. 

" I am so distressed," he said, " but your little dog 
has escaped, and we cannot find her anywhere. Oh, 
please, please, don't feel so badly about it," he added 
kindly. 

I was so dead tired after all the worry and anxiety 
of the performance, and the idea of my poor, faithful, 
little dog being lost in London made me so perfectly 
miserable, that the tears came into my eyes. 

John Penn had a heart of gold ! 

" Don't cry," he said impulsively, taking hold of 
my hand. " I'll get that dog back for you if I have to 
offer a thousand pounds reward for it ! " 

And the best of it is he would have stuck to his word 
if there had been no other way of restoring it to me. But 
I can imagine someone on reading this saying to them- 
selves 

" Just imagine being such a fool as to take such a 
speech seriously." 

Well, I should be insulting the memory of a dear 
friend who is now in his grave if I entertained the 
slightest doubt on the subject. But I don't. 

All the same I couldn't help smiling through my 



330 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

tears ; my dog was so small and the reward he suggested 
was so tremendous ! 

There were a lot of people in the drawing-room up- 
stairs, and in less than a minute they had all heard that 
the dog was lost, and that the reason I hadn't gone up to 
the drawing-room was because I was crying my eyes out 
in dear John Penn's little library downstairs. Every- 
one offered to help to find her, and the wisest of the 
party, a dear American girl called Gertrude Hall known 
to all her friends as " Kitty " and who is the author of 
some very charming poems suggested going off to look for 
it at Mrs. Spender Clay's house in Charles Street, Berkeley 
Square, where I had dressed for the concert. I was so 
frightfully tired that they all insisted on my remaining 
where I was. To my joy I heard, after about half an 
hour, that my dear little dog had been found there, and 
that the caretaker, recognising her, had let her into the 
house and had shut her up in my bedroom. I rushed 
off at once to fetch her, and oh, how happy I was when the 
poor little thing flew into my arms ! She was nearly 
mad with joy, and cried and jumped up at me till I 
thought I would never be able to pacify her. 

She had not been long in my possession when Dr. 
Munthe informed me that he had originally intended 
giving her to the wife of the Swedish Minister in Paris. 

" Soignez la bien," he added, " et n'oubliez jamais 
qu'elle a abandonne* une carriere diplomatique pour etre 
a vous ! " 

That summer I was invited by the late Lady Kenmare, 
one of the most beautiful and graceful women I have ever 
met, to stay at her lovely home at Killarney. Unfortun- 
ately I was unable to do so, and I never regretted it so much 
as one afternoon when I called upon her in London and saw 
some water-colour pictures of the exquisite and romantic 
gardens which owe so much of their beauty to her ! 
They were painted by Mr. Hamilton Adie, and hung round 
the walls of her charming little sitting-room in London. 
She had an equal genius for making her rooms attractive. 
Years afterwards I used to go a good deal to her flat 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 881 

in Rome, when my kind and dear friend, Lady Mary 
von Huge], was staying there on a visit, and I enjoyed 
nothing more than wandering about the beautiful little 
rooms and looking at all the lovely things they contained. 

My sister went to Chile that autumn and I went to 
Scotland, to Minard Castle in Argyllshire, to stay with my 
friend, Mrs. Lloyd. I was still collecting money for my 
fund, and Mrs. Lloyd, knowing this, asked me if I would 
come to her for three months to give piano lessons to her 
two pretty twin daughters. She also asked me if I would 
read French and German with them, to which I gladly 
consented. I thoroughly enjoyed my stay there. Ex- 
cepting for about two hours a day my time was entirely 
my own. The house and grounds were beautiful. The 
lawn sloped right down to Loch Fyne, and the views 
everywhere were splendid. It was very lonely, but I 
rather liked that. I composed a great deal during those 
three months, and almost every fortnight I sent a manuscript 
to my sister Emmie in Chile. It was there I wrote several 
of the German songs in Volume II. of my " New German 
Album," and I think it was there that I wrote " The 
Bonny Curl " and several of the " Pictures from Abroad." 
Among other things I set a poem of Rossetti's called 
" Songs and Music." Someone had given me his two 
volumes of poetry, and I had read them with the keenest 
interest. I had just seen an exhibition of his paintings 
at Burlington House, and the poems seemed to me ex- 
traordinarily like the pictures, which I thought wonder- 
fully romantic. They made a very great impression 
on me. I read rather a cynical review upon them the 
other day by a very well-known literary man, but I am 
glad to say it didn't in the least alter my opinion about 
them. 

My host and hostess were kindness personified, and 
my two pupils were perfect dears. Sometimes they had 
relations to stay with them, but the only visits of cere- 
mony that were paid were, as far as I can remember, by 
a curate and a whale. The whale was caught, within 
sight of the house, and no doubt the curate, who was the 



332 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

only marriageable man within miles, has also been caught 
by now ! Or perhaps he proposed marriage to the lady 
of his affections in the same way as the young Scot of 
whom I heard the following story 

" Jessie,'* he said to the girl he had been courting, 
" I've called at your house on Monday, I've called at your 
house on Tuesday, I've called at your house on Wednesday, 
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, and now it's the 
Sabbath ! Canna ye smell a rat, lassie ? " 

I returned to London in February, and the first person 
who again celebrated my return by a merry little dinner 
was Mary Wakefield. That summer I spent some months 
in a little private hotel in Bond Street, where I waited 
for my sister to return from Chile. 

When I next saw her she was engaged to be married 
to a dear cousin of ours. He wasn't particularly well 
off, nor was he particularly good-looking. Someone once 
asked her why she was going to marry him. / never 
did, for the simple reason that I thought him one of the 
most lovable human beings I have ever met. I really 
loved him. She was obliged to come away from Chile 
almost immediately after her engagement, and shortly 
afterwards he wrote to her 

" They all tell me here that a charming girl like you 
will never stick to a chap like me, but, compared to my 
faith in you, the Rock of Gibraltar is a quivering mould 
of blancmange." 

Her marriage was arranged for the following summer, 
and that winter we spent together in a delightful way. 
As it was only too evident that she would have to spend 
most of her married life in South America, I suggested 
that she should see something of Europe before exiling 
herself, and together we planned a seven months' tour. 
Before we started on it, I went to Marienbad to do a cure. 
After that cure I joined the dear Balfours in Solden, a 
heavenly little village buried in the heart of the Tyrol, 
where DD. and I again discussed everything under heaven 
and earth, while my little black terrier, who never left me, 
lay at my feet or on my lap. One day we were sitting 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 383 

outside the chalet when I suddenly missed her. I looked 
round and saw her creeping along the edge of a high 
wall. I gave a piercing yell ! 

DD. started. " What's the matter ? " she cried. 

I screamed back, " My dog will certainly fall from 
that wall and will be killed on the spot ! " 

" Oh," said DD., rather relieved to find it was nothing 
else, " dogs don't fall down so easily." 

I thought she was a heartless wretch, and said with 
some heat, " Dogs do ! " 

She said calmly, " Dogs don't ! " 

I said savagely, " Dogs do ! " and rushed to the rescue, 
while she shrieked after me 

" Dogs don't I " 

And, thank goodness, my dog didn't, and lived to a 
ripe old age. But to this day it is a regular saying in the 
Balfour family. Whatever the discussion may be, after 
a while somebody always clinches the matter by an- 
nouncing in a tone that admits of no contradiction 

" Dogs do I " or " Dogs don't I " 



CHAPTER XXII. 

BEFORE I left Marienbad I received a letter from Mr. 
Frank Schuster asking me to be one of his guests at Casa 
Wolkoff, an enchanting little palazzo on the Grand Canal 
at Venice. He said that Lady de Grey had very kindly 
undertaken to play hostess for him. I was longing to 
accept this invitation, but my doctor positively forbade 
me to go to Venice without first spending, at least, a 
fortnight in the Tyrol ; besides I was expecting Emmie, 
with whom I was shortly to start on a tour round Europe. 
How reluctantly I wrote and told him that I was un- 
able to come can easily be imagined. But what was my 
delight when, by return of post, I received a kind and 
charming letter saying, "You mustn't disappoint one of 
your oldest friends I really want you to come, and so as 
to enable you to do so I have taken on Casa Wolkoff for 
another week ; as far as your sister is concerned, do, 
pray, bring her with you." 

Of course I was only too pleased to accept the invita- 
tion under these conditions. It is one thing to go to 
Venice as a tourist, quite another to stay there as the 
guest of a kind friend in an ideal little palazzo ! And I 
immediately wrote to my sister, gave her Mr. Schuster's 
message, and asked her to join me at Casa Wolkoff in a 
fortnight. 

Mr. Schuster came to meet me at the station in a 
private gondola. The gondoliers were dressed in white 
from head to foot with broad scarlet sashes round their 
waists. The change from the stuffy train to the gondola 
was delicious. After a while he made them lay down 
their oars in a dark, narrow canal and said to me 

" Now, if you don't mind a little walk, we will land 
here." 

334 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 885 

I wondered why we did not go straight to our destina- 
tion as it was nearly midnight, when he continued 

" I want you to shut your eyes and to promise me not 
to open them till I give you leave." 

I promised, and wondered again what was going to 
happen ! He led me by the hand, and at last, after what 
seemed to me an age, he said 

" Now, then, open your eyes and tell me what you 
think of this ? " 

We were on the Piazzo San Marco. I had had the 
good luck to arrive on a magnificent moonlight night in 
September, and the scene, which is far too well-known to 
need any description, was so absolutely lovely that it 
gave me a lump in the throat. My kind friend bestowed 
on me a wonderful gift when he gave me that impression 
of Venice. The picture hangs safely in the museum of 
my memory, and it is not within the power of the most 
determined suffragette alive to destroy it, thank good- 
ness ! After that we rowed to Casa Wolkoff, which then 
belonged to the well-known Russian artist of that name. 
It is ideally situated, and well do I remember the really 
enchanting impression made upon me by the drawing- 
room on the first floor with its five Gothic windows which 
look down on to the Grand Canal and on to the beautiful 
palaces opposite. The room was not only picturesque 
and interesting, but it was cosy beyond description, and 
arranged with the perfect taste that characterises every 
room I have ever seen with which Mr. Shuster has any- 
thing to do. 

I spent one of the most delightful weeks of my life at 
Casa Wolkoff, and certainly quite one of the most un- 
conventional, for at the last moment Lady de Grey 
telegraphed to say she was unable to come, and my 
sister Emmie never turned up either ! She, poor dear, 
was detained by a fiend of a dressmaker, who with 
characteristic malice never sent her clothes home in 
time. I had already left the Tyrol when Mr. Schuster 
received Lady de Grey's wire, so it was impossible to 
put me off, in consequence of which I was the only woman 



386 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

in the house during the whole visit. Needless to say that 
every man who had been invited arrived without fail. 
Poor Mr. Schuster, who thought, with every reason, that 
the situation was rather embarrassing for a still youngish 
woman, rushed off to call on every nice woman he knew 
in Venice, and to one and all he said the same thing. 

" You absolutely must come and call on Miss White 
as soon as she arrives, so that she may feel that every- 
thing is all right." 

Well, no end of charming people did call the very 
next day, and I had quite a reception. Every one was 
rather amused at what had happened. The dear Balfours 
were staying almost opposite Casa Wolkoff with their 
uncle, Mr. Frederick Eden, the owner of one of the rare 
gardens in Venice, and I need hardly say that they 
unhesitatingly undertook to " see me through " ; in fact, 
they were as amused as every one else at the unexpected 
turn things had taken. As for me, I felt like the woman 
in the French play who said 

" II n'y a qu'a moi que ces choses la arrivent," and 
then prepared to enjoy herself to the top of her bent. 

I enjoyed every minute of my stay ; the delicious 
hours spent in the gondola in which we made countless 
expeditions, the wonderful city itself, the pictures, the 
people, the everything. I had my little black terrier 
with me, and even the insulting fact that Mr. Schuster 
said she looked exactly like an ink-pot and that he longed 
to screw off her head, as he felt sure she was really full 
of " Stephen's Blue-Black," was insufficient to mar my 
enjoyment. And just as this pleasant merry week came 
to an end, my poor sister turned up without a single one 
of the garments for which she had given up her week at 
Casa Wolkoff! That was her reward for having waited 
from day to day for a parcel that never arrived, and 
without which she started on an eight months' journey 
one hot September morning with the perspiration of 
despair rolling down her tired face. One can only hope 
that there is a private little inferno for dressmakers in 
which they will be made to flit about from flame to flame 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 337 

in ghostly replicas of the misfits they have provided for 
their unfortunate customers, while one of those awful 
mirrors which make one look three-foot-nothing when 
one is five-foot-ten flits round with them. The mere 
thought of such a thing puts new life into me, and makes 
me feel as if I had spent a week at a bracing seaside 
place ; Whitstable or Cromer, for instance. 

We took a large room near the Edens and stayed on 
for ten days or so, and Emmie had a chance of seeing 
Casa Wolkoff after all, for it was taken on by our friends, 
the Blumenthals, with whom we went about a good 
deal. During that week we made the acquaintance of 
Sir Henry and Lady Layard, and of Mr. and Mrs. Curtis, 
whom we went to see in their lovely palace. 

Sir Henry Layard, who had once been English Am- 
bassador in Constantinople, had quite a long talk with me 
when he heard that we were going there. He immedi- 
ately offered to give us letters of introduction to friends of 
his who, he said, would show us everything worth seeing. 
I was, of course, only too glad to accept these letters, 
as I knew the enormous difference they would make to 
our enjoyment. He wanted us to start at once. He 
said October was an ideal month on the Bosphorus. 
But we couldn't do that. My sister didn't know Italy, 
and as the object of our trip was to give her a bird's-eye 
view of Europe, it would have been indeed incomplete 
had we missed out Italy and Sicily. I was tremendously 
interested when I heard that Sir Henry had spent a long 
time excavating on the site of Ancient Babylon, and 
longed to rush off and " do likewise." However, I limited 
myself to rushing off to Ravenna, where one of the guides 
told me not to look at a certain venerable monument, 
because it was " moderno e non vale la pena." This was 
the tomb of Theodoric, and dated from the fourth century. 
We drove out to the beautiful tomb of Galla Placida, 
that miracle of mosaic work, and then to the interesting 
church of San Apollinare that stands alone and deserted 
outside the city which itself looks half dead, and there 
I looked at the wonderful mosaics that decorate the apse 

22 



338 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

of the church. They looked extraordinarily familiar to 
me. I was wondering where on earth I had already seen 
those strange Byzantine figures, when the guide said 

" Victorien Sardou sent an artist here to copy those 
mosaics; he wanted to reproduce all those costumes in 
his play of Theodora" 

And then I remembered having seen Sarah Bernhardt 
in her famous role. People used to say it wasn't a good 
play, but all I can say is that it was an uncommonly 
effective one, and she was splendid as the Byzantine 
Empress in the great scene where the palace is mobbed 
and she refuses to be driven out of it by any one on earth, 
and finally persuades the Emperor to stay there too and 
defy the rebels with her. 

After Ravenna we made a tour through the rest of 
Italy, and then we went to Sicily, where we visited 
Palermo, Girgenti, and Taormina. 

How different was Taormina twenty-four years ago 
to what it is now! The beautiful terraces of the Hotel 
Timeo at which we stopped did not exist then. They 
stand on the site of vineyards, from which in old days one 
walked straight into the Greek Theatre at the back of the 
hotel. 

This one can do no longer, and though I regret the 
fact, I nevertheless think those terraces are the only 
" improvements " I have ever seen that I find it quite 
impossible to quarrel with. 

He would indeed be difficult to please who, on a May 
morning, could find fault with that upper terrace on which 
one sits so peacefully beneath palms and pepper trees, 
and beside pillars which, set at some little distance from 
each other, are smothered in a mass of golden Fortuna 
roses and throw out flower-laden branches from one to the 
other in an ecstasy of splendid prodigality, that reckless 
prodigality of the south that almost intoxicates one with 
its superb generosity.l Through that lovely tangle of 
colour one looks out over the Ionian sea, that beloved 
sapphire sea of legend, and across to the snow-covered 
volcano round which the Ancients wove their immortal 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 339 

and beautiful fancies, and then ah, then, one forgets 
everything except that one has found a spot where 
happiness, that dearest, that most beautiful legend of all, 
still hides among the roses of the south ! 

But there was only a tiny little terrace at the H6tel 
Timeo when we arrived there one evening twenty-four 
years ago. After dreaming away the whole of one after- 
noon in the Greek Theatre, I spent the entire evening on 
that little terrace with a Taormina boy who taught me to 
play the village tarantella. 



n Giojoso. ^ | 


J 


_^J_ . J 


vr- fr 


J 


J 


-j^ ^ 




^ * 


ife * +-- 

Xq? 






:~5l-: 


:> T 



^ ~ l 



etc. 



I bought that guitar from him and carried it round Europe 
with me. Taormina was even lovelier then than it is 
now. There were very few hotels at that time, and I 
believe I am right in stating that the Hotel San Domenico 
was still a Dominican Convent. I am not sure whether the 
Villa Santa Caterina, which also was a convent in old 
days and is now the private residence of Lady Hill, had 
already been secularised. That, alas ! has been the fate 
of so many churches, so many convents in Sicily. It 
gives me a pang every time I go down the principal 
street of Taormina to see the antiquary shops literally 
overflowing with what once belonged to the churches. 
The altars of God's houses are spread with ugly cretonne 
covers as often as not, while the exquisite altar-cloths 
that were worked with such love and care by devout 
hands now lie by the score on counters to be bought by 
rich tourists, who will decorate their sideboards and dress- 
ing-tables with them. I once managed to rescue one of 
these altar-cloths, and now it belongs to a little mountain 
church in Mola, the white village high up above Taormina. 
I only wish I could have rescued them all ! A Via 



340 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Crucis (the fourteen Stations of the Cross which com- 
memorate the Passion of our Lord) existed then in the 
lovely lane that runs at the bottom of Dr. Cacciola's great 
garden, and prayers used to be said there by the monks 
and people in front of the little altars. 

Those altars have almost all been destroyed. Electric 
lamps have been substituted for the lights that burned 
beneath the sacred pictures. I have no quarrel with what 
is modern and useful, but why not have left the altars 
there ? They were a joy to those whose faith in God is 
indestructible ; they were a joy to the poet and the artist, 
and what harm could they possibly do even to the greatest 
unbeliever alive ? He wouldn't destroy a venerable altar 
dedicated to Apollo or Diana ! Why cannot he rest till 
he has overthrown those raised to Christ ? But there 
is one thought that I carry about with me and that 
always consoles me. People don't quarrel with what is 
dead ! In the present case they are quarrelling with the 
outward and visible sign of what is alive what it is, 
thank God impossible to destroy ! 

I had a servant somewhat younger than myself who 
used to tell me all about the old days in Taormina when 
there were very few hotels, and no luxuries to speak of, 
when the banished monks looked kindly and affectionately 
after those who were unable to look after themselves, and 
distributed food every week to the aged and infirm, and 
when the poor were far happier than they are now, not- 
withstanding all the charities that have been organised. 
A chicken in those days cost thirty centimes ; now you 
can hardly get a good one for two francs, and hundreds of 
people go from one year's end to the other without ever 
tasting meat. One little boy I knew sometimes lived on 
nothing but the herbs he found on the hills, and trusted 
pathetically to the charity of others to provide him with 
a piece of black bread with which to get through the day ! 

From Sicily we went to Greece. We travelled in 
rather a rickety old ship, and the stewardess on board was 
a regular character. I lay in the lower berth of the cabin 
horribly ill, and Emmie lay in the top one perfectly well, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 841 

while the stewardess gave us snapshots of her married life. 
Occasionally she bent over me with a tender solicitude 
with which I could well have dispensed, for as far as I 
could make out she lived entirely on garlic. Once she 
said, sighing odoriferously 

" My husband is a very strange man ; the moment I 
arrive home from one voyage he says to me, ' You must be 
off immediately on another.' I can't imagine why." 

My sister heard this remark and began to laugh, and 
even I chuckled feebly, though I felt desperately giddy 
and miserable. We imagined without the slightest diffi- 
culty why any husband might object to her. But she 
merely shook her finger at my sister. 

" It is not kind of you," she said, " to laugh at your 
suffering relative." 

Well, it was no use entering into explanations. 

The first time I stood on the Acropolis, notwithstanding 
the magnificence of the world-famous ruins by which I 
was surrounded, my first thought was 

" The world looks as if it had been created only an 
hour ago." 

There is something about the view from the 
Acropolis that suggests youth eternal, radiant triumph- 
ant youth ! and the morning on which I saw it was 
beautiful beyond description. Somehow the beauty of 
that view had never been mentioned to me. W T henever 
the Acropolis was spoken of, its glorious setting had been 
ignored by those who spoke so keenly, so appreciatively 
of its temples, its statues, etc. I was rather glad of this, 
for the sight of those grand mountains, those lovely blue 
bays in the distance, was one of those splendid surprises 
that one remembers to the end of one's life. After a day 
or two we made friends with two kind American pro- 
fessors from the American school who lent us books and 
accompanied us to the Acropolis, and of course their 
society and conversation greatly increased the enjoyment 
and interest of those visits. One of them came with us to 
Marathon, and both advised us how to make the very best 
of our short time in Greece. 



842 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

We went to Eleusis, and revelled in every minute of 
the drive, in every moment that we spent among the 
colossal and imposing ruins. And we also went to 
Salamis, where I remember sitting for a long, long time 
gazing out over the quiet waters, while my thoughts 
wandered away to Xerxes and far-away Persia, till I 
hardly realised who or what I was myself, for my own 
personality seemed to have evaporated into thin air ! 

One evening at dinner, during a talk with one of the 
American professors, I happened to mention that one of 
the dreams of my life had always been to go to Troy. 

He answered, " Well, why don't you go now that you 
are so near ? " 

I said I didn't quite know how to set about getting 
there. 

" Oh," he said, " that is easily managed." And he 
told me, as a first step, to go and call on the English 
minister, who would give me all the necessary information. 
He added, " And I will give you a letter of introduction 
to Dr. Schliemann, who is a personal friend of mine, and 
who is in Troy at this very moment making excavations." 

I was simply overjoyed. I felt as if all my Heidel- 
berg dreams were coming true, and as if I were almost 
on the eve of being introduced to every person in the Iliad. 
I asked Emmie whether she would care to make the 
expedition, which, we were told, would be long and tiring, 
and fortunately for me she was just as keen as myself. 

Next day I went to call on our minister. When he 
heard that we were going to Troy absolutely alone he 
protested. 

" It isn't possible for girls of your age to go alone 
on such an expedition," he said. (I privately thought I 
could a tale unfold on the subject of my age, but it was 
so delightful to be taken for six or seven years younger 
than I actually was, that I preserved a tactful silence.) 
" I will give you a letter to the English Consul at the 
Dardanelles," he continued, " and will ask him to arrange 
this expedition for you, but on no account must you go 
alone." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 343 

Before leaving Greece we resolved to make an ex- 
pedition to Argos and Mycene. We slept one night at 
Nauplia, and went to a little hotel, where we found 
it perfectly impossible to make ourselves understood. 
Finally, a soldier who was sauntering in the square out- 
side was reluctantly dragged into our bedroom by one 
of the servants. He was able to speak a little French, 
and from him we heard that the son of the house was 
away from home but would be back that night, that he 
was a great linguist, and would take us wherever we wanted 
to go. 

The walls of the public sitting-room of this little hotel 
were covered with photographs of the Austrian Imperial 
family. They were all signed, and included several very 
good ones of the late Empress Elizabeth. We were very 
much astonished at this, but when the son returned that 
evening he told us that he had accompanied the Empress 
on many of her Greek expeditions, and had also been 
with her to Austria. 

" We went for long walks," he said, " and I accom- 
panied her on many of her mountain excursions. Ah, 
how she walked ! She was never tired, but I was some- 
times so exhausted that it was all I could do to keep up 
with her." 

This young man accompanied us to Argos and Mycene. 
We drove there in an open carriage along the broad and 
beautiful valley between the mountains, and I think the 
greatest thrill I experienced that day was when, with a 
wave of the hand, he pointed to a mountain on the left 
and said 

" That is the mountain on which Hermes was born." 

And for the rest of the day the messenger of the gods 
flew on before us ! He seemed to me more real than 
anyone or anything in the whole vast landscape, and 
once again I realised the eternal charm, the eternal 
fascination, of those immortal legends of Greece. Those 
few words had wiped out the whole existing world for me, 
and wafted me back to Arcadia. We saw the wonderful 
tomb of Agamemnon, as it is called, where Dr. Schliemann 



344 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

discovered the bodies of the seven prehistorical kings, 
who crumbled to dust before his very eyes shortly after 
they were exposed to the air ! We also saw the Agora 
of Mycene, into which you enter through a gate beside 
which the two famous stone-lionesses still keep watch 
as they did how many thousand years ago ? 

With what reluctance we left Greece ! We had to 
remind ourselves at every moment that we had only set 
out on this journey with the deliberate intention of taking 
a bird's-eye view of each country, or we would certainly 
never have gone any farther than Italy ! 

After disembarking at the Dardanelles, we drove 
straight to the house of the English consul. To my sister's 
infinite astonishment she saw the picture of a friend of 
hers on the mantelpiece. This was Mr. " Billy " Russell, 
the well-known correspondent of the Times, with whom 
she had returned from South America in the same steamer 
a few short months ago. The Consul turned out to be his 
son, and when he heard that my sister knew his father, he 
was kinder than ever. He got a little escort for us, and 
the next day we drove off to Troy. It was a twenty-two 
miles drive. We had a Circassian coachman, a Turkish 
soldier, and a Spanish Jew dragoman to look after us ! 
The cart in which we travelled had no springs. A mat- 
tress had been spread at the bottom and we had been 
provided with innumerable pillows ; but by the time we 
reached Mr. Calvert's farm, where we were to spend the 
night, and which was at a short distance from the scene 
of the excavations, we had almost had the life shaken 
out of us ! The hairpins stood round our heads like the 
bristles of porcupines, and the only respectable one among 
us was my little black terrier ! She still looked perfectly 
correcte, as they say in France, in her tiny shining 
black coat, presided over by the two long ears which, 
when she cocked them, always reminded Mr. Schuster 
of the towers of Notre Dame ! 

How strange it seemed to me to be sleeping in a farm 
in Asia Minor ! How extraordinary to wake on the great 
plain of Troy ! The next morning we drove down to 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 845 

the huts where Dr. Schliemann and his assistants had set 
up their temporary homes ; he received us with the 
greatest kindness, and invited us to luncheon there and 
then. Dr. Dorpfeld was also there, and several other 
archaeologists from Berlin, whose names I forget. It 
was not possible to forget Dr. Dorpfeld, for he was not 
only charming but extremely nice-looking. Dr. Schlie- 
mann (who talked Spanish to us, and who told me that 
he had always been able, in six weeks, to pick up any 
language sufficiently well to make himself understood) 
took us himself to see the excavations. He had not then 
been very long at work. He told me that many of the 
treasures, which I afterwards saw in Athens, had been 
discovered in rather an unexpected way. He told me 
that before he sunk a single shaft he felt absolutely 
convinced that great treasures lay hidden where Troy 
once stood. He said that the foundations of the city he 
had discovered still bore the traces of fire, that it was 
evident that some tremendous conflagration had taken 
place on that very spot, and that it was from these signs 
that he concluded he was actually on the site of what 
was once the city of Troy. He then commenced his 
search for the treasures in whose existence he so firmly 
believed. He searched in vain for many weeks, but 
nothing shook his faith, and at last he pulled down the 
hut in which he was then living and began to excavate 
beneath it. 

And, sure enough, there lay the wonderful array of gold 
ornaments that were afterwards carried to Athens ! 
There were many other things besides jewellery ; I think 
there were golden goblets and ewers and plates, but as it 
is so long ago, and as I am writing absolutely from memory 
without any notes whatsoever, I dare not speak too 
surely on the nature of the objects found there. But 
that they were excavated beneath the hut in which Dr. 
Schliemann had been living, I know for a positive fact, 
for I had it from his own lips. He gave me his card, and 
on it he wrote " Kyrie Cassandra." On my sister's card 
he wrote " To Nausicaa," and then he said 



346 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" I think we must call your little dog ' Argus ' after 
the faithful dog of Ulysses." 

And now, whenever I remember that day, I think 
of my little faithful terrier and remember the lines in 
Stephen Phillip's lovely play, when Ulysses says to his old 
servant 

" You that are human know me not : and yet 
If Argus my old hound should see me now, 
Though he were dying, he would wag his tail." 

We started for the Dardanelles that night, but were 
overtaken by a terrible downfall of rain, which made it 
almost impossible to continue our drive across the plain 
the ground was full of holes, and the mud and slush were 
appalling; at last the coachman drove deliberately into 
the sea, and for some time we drove along in the water. 
Finally we sighted a Greek village where we halted at a 
dirty little inn for supper. It was almost dark by now. 
To our horror we heard our men quarrelling outside the 
room where my sister and I were resting ; the Turkish 
soldier and the Circassian coachman were evidently using 
violent language to each other, and at last I felt so alarmed 
that I went out and asked the interpreter to tell me what 
was the matter. He answered 

"The soldier who is in charge of you has solemnly 
undertaken to bring you back to the English Consul's 
house to-night. He says he will get into serious trouble 
otherwise. And the coachman refuses to go on. He says 
it is not safe ; the ground is too full of holes, and it is so 
dark he cannot see to drive." 

I felt rather nervous; the inn looked a cut -throat 
sort of place, and I wondered whether it was safe to stay 
there. Then I reflected that the soldier was evidently 
to be trusted, and that it certainly was an appalling night 
on which to continue our drive across the desolate and 
dangerous plain. So I told the interpreter to tell him 
that we would take the responsibility on ourselves and 
would sleep there. We then locked ourselves in with 
the little terrier. It was bitterly cold, and she lay alter- 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 347 

nately on my sister's feet and on my own to keep us 
warm ; but I was thankful, indeed, when morning dawned 
and we were able to continue our drive back to the 
Consul's house. 

We left for Constantinople the next night, and there 
we remained about a week. How grateful we felt to 
Sir Henry Layard for the letters he had given us to his 
charming friend, Mrs. Hanson. She called upon us immedi- 
ately, and, owing to her, we saw more of Constantinople 
in a week than many people see in a month. 

Constantinople absolutely fascinated me. It was my 
first glimpse of the East, though it was not my sister's 
she had already spent a winter in Algiers. But it was 
all absolutely new to me. My sister said to me while we 
were still on board waiting to land 

" 1 know what you are thinking of ! You are wishing 
that you could have arrived here on Hans Andersen's 
Magic Carpet like the man in the fairy tale." 

And it was quite true ! 

We stayed at an hotel in Pera, but of course all our 
time was spent on the other side of the great bridge. We 
saw Santa Sophia, the imposing mosque of the Sultan 
Suliman ; we drove to the Sweet Waters of Asia, to the 
Turkish cemetery where the tombstones are crowned 
with turbans and look so strangely desolate without the 
familiar and beloved cross at their head. And then we 
went to the bazaars, and though I have seen those of 
Cairo and Tunis, I must say I think they do not in any 
way come up to those of Constantinople. Never in my 
life have I seen such exquisite stuffs and embroideries. 
We were given Turkish coffee to sip while they spread 
the enchanting wares before us, and of course we suc- 
cumbed to temptation, and spent our money so recklessly 
that we had hurriedly to telegraph for more ! But almost 
the most interesting of our experiences was a visit to a 
Turkish harem. Mrs. Hanson knew the old Pasha who 
lived in this fascinating old house on the Bosphorus 
with his sons and their wives. He was seated in cross- 
legged fashion on a divan near one of the windows of the 



848 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

room into which we were shown, and immediately entered 
into conversation with us by means of Miss Hanson's 
maid, who spoke Turkish. I remember feeling dreadfully 
uncomfortable as the ladies of the house slipped shyly in 
one by one. They would not sit down in our presence, 
and were told by the Pasha to kiss our hands ; it seemed 
to me dreadfully humiliating for them, and I was very 
much embarrassed by that part of the visit. They were 
all dressed in the most extraordinary way ; most of them 
wore long coats, rather like men's dressing-gowns, made 
of blue or pink cashmere trimmed with swansdown. 
After a while a coal black slave appeared with a tray full 
of cakes, sweetmeats, and rose-jam which we had to taste, 
and which I, personally, thought rather sickly. But 
that afternoon I scored off all the others for just ten 
seconds ! The Pasha began a long conversation with 
the maid, who, after a while, looked towards me and 
began to smile. I felt curious and begged her to tell me 
what he was saying. 

The maid answered, " He says he likes you far better 
than the other two." 

I was chuckling with gratified vanity when she 
added 

" He says he likes you so much better because you are 
so much stouter than they are ! " 

I collapsed ! And I never cheered up till I was told 
about the lady who couldn't even get into her nightgowns 
without using a shoe-horn. 

Before we left Constantinople Mrs. Hanson arranged 
for us to see the ceremony known as the Selamlik, when 
the Sultan drives in state to the Mosque followed by his 
wives and his suite. Sir Vincent Caillard, whose ac- 
quaintance we made that day, had secured seats for us, 
and we saw the procession splendidly. It was extremely 
picturesque. He was followed by Orientals of every 
sort and description, by Turks, Abyssinians, Nubians, 
and other retainers of I know not how many other nations 
the ladies of the harem followed in closed carriages ; 
their faces, except for their eyes, were entirely veiled. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 349 

I think it was that same night that we left Con- 
stantinople and travelled in the " Blitz " train to Vienna. 

There we stayed rather longer than we intended, for 
both of us were laid low with influenza, and lost almost 
three weeks of our precious time in bed. But at all events 
we spent several delightful days with the Ferstels, who 
were quite thrilled by the news of Emmie's engagement. 

Erwin made one of his amusing mistakes and said 

" Now then, Emily, though you have told us you are 
engaged to be married, you have told us nothing about 
your engager ! " 

They thought we were quite mad to go to Russia in 
the depths of winter, especially after having had influenza, 
and so much did they dwell upon the appalling nature of 
the Russian climate, so earnestly did they impress upon 
us the necessity of wrapping ourselves up carefully, that 
as we approached Petersburg I, for one, made up my 
mind to follow their advice. Shortly before the train 
drew up at the station I emerged in a toilette such as I 
have never worn before or since. I was dressed from 
head to foot in two of everything and three of some ! I 
had even donned the equivalent of two hats, for I had 
twisted a woollen comforter round my sealskin cap. I 
was as stiff as a Noah's Ark figure so stiff that I had 
to be removed " all sides up with care " by my sister and 
the guard. I was so hot that I nearly fainted. There 
hadn't even been an attempt at a frost for several days, 
and the cold in Vienna had been infinitely greater ! We 
stayed at an hotel close to the great Isaacs Church, and 
I must say, though the cold was appalling before we 
left, and though the tip of my tongue was frostbitten 
(how such a thing could have happened is, of course, 
inconceivable), still, I enjoyed that visit to Petersburg 
from start to finish. I certainly enjoyed the excellent 
meals they gave us at the hotel and the delicious 
"zakouska" that always preceded dinner, and that 
consisted of innumerable hors d'ceuvres of the most 
varied character. And though I revelled in the splendid 
picture-gallery and the magnificent collection of art 



350 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

treasures at the Hermitage, still, it was the country itself 
the country and its customs that, as always, fascinated 
me most. I adored flying over the hard snow in the 
tiny sledges that were driven by strange, exotic coachmen 
who looked exactly like huge figures out of a Noah's Ark 
that Goliath might have played with, with their large fur 
caps and their curious long coats which look more like 
gigantic dressing gowns trimmed with silver buttons 
than anything else. The fatter a Russian coachman 
can make himself look the smarter he is considered, 
and a Russian friend told me that a Jehu, whom I once 
mistook for a second edition of Tichborne, was in all 
probability quite a slim young fellow. She added 

" They stuff themselves out, and pad their clothes to 
such an extent that if by any chance there is an accident 
and they are thrown to the ground, they are absolutely 
incapable of getting up without assistance their weight 
is so great ! " 

I thoroughly enjoyed the one opera I heard in Peters- 
burg Glinka's La Vie pour le Czar. I love the Russian 
language, which, when sung, sounds to me particularly 
soft, and full of charm, and it was during that performance 
that I saw a polonaise danced for the first time. It 
roused me to absolute enthusiasm. I never saw anything 
more graceful than the way, at the end of the dance, 
each man threw himself at the feet of his partner. The 
music of the opera is charming ; though simple in charac- 
ter, the score contains many delightful folk-songs. 

That night I couldn't help looking up constantly at 
a box that was occupied by a party of officers who wore 
the Tcherkess uniform, a dress which is quite unusually 
becoming and picturesque and which is worn by most 
men throughout the length and breadth of the Caucasus. 
The sight of those men made me suddenly feel how far 
away I was from home. I had heard Russians talk 
of " going to Europe " and had thought it a curiously 
inappropriate expression, since their own country was in 
Europe, but after I had been only a few days in Russia 
I quite understood how it was they used it, for often, 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 351 

when I looked at the Tartar faces which surrounded us on 
all sides, I could easily have fancied myself in Mongolia. 

I loved the sensation of going out from the warm, 
comfortable rooms with their double windows, on to the 
frozen Neva, where, to my sorrow, I found that I had 
almost forgotten how to skate, and where, just on the 
point of coming a cropper, I remembered to shout to the 
man from whom I had hired my skates, " Daitie mnie 
vashu rutchku," which was hardly what he expected to 
hear, I am quite sure. 

I saw some beautiful skating in Petersburg. The way 
the men skated down the steep ice-hills with sledges 
containing either a man, woman, or child smothered in 
furs, was something extraordinary ; it looked to me 
horribly dangerous, but they said it was perfectly easy. 

One night our guide suggested that we should drive 
out to the Islands in a troika and have supper there 
a troika is a large sledge to which three horses are 
harnessed, and a great net is drawn right over the sledge 
to prevent the occupants being too badly hit by the snow 
that is kicked up by the horses. I got many a hit in the 
face that night, but I didn't really mind it ; there was 
something splendidly exhilarating in that rush through 
the biting air. We had supper in a large restaurant, 
but that night, to our disappointment, no gipsies were 
singing there. We heard them another night at a small 
theatre, but I didn't care for the performance gipsies 
in a theatre was a combination that held no attraction 
for me. I prefer them in a less conventional atmosphere. 

One day I wandered into a church on the Nevsky 
Prospect, and there I heard the wonderful effect that 
can be obtained by a choir of Russian men. To my mind 
a fine bass or baritone is the most beautiful of all voices, 
and you certainly hear them to perfection all over 
Russia. I happened to mention the great beauty of the 
singing I had just heard in that church to a Russian 
friend with whom we were dining, and at the same time 
I mentioned a specially beautiful effect of the organ in 
conjunction with the voices. 



352 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

He said, " But there is no organ in that church on 
the Nevsky Prospect." 

44 Oh yes, there is," I answered, " and what is more, 
I remember perfectly the quite beautiful effect of a deep 
pedal note as the men sang the melody above it." 

" I assure you, you are mistaken," he answered. 
" What you thought was an organ note was the ensemble 
of the bass voices on one note. I have often heard that 
effect in the churches here." 

I found it difficult to believe him, but it was, of course, 
quite true. 

Before we left Petersburg we went to a very interest- 
ing orchestral concert at the "Salle de la Noblesse," 
and there I heard pieces for the first time by Rimsky- 
Korsakow, Borodin, and Cesar Cui ; the latter, who 
was a military man, came forward in his uniform to bow 
to the audience. Borodin, I believe, was also a Pro- 
fessor of Chemistry. The friend who took us to the 
concert was devoted to music. He said, alluding to 
combinations and harmonies that then were considered 
extremely daring and eccentric 

44 Quand a moi, j'aime bien cette musique moderne 
il y survient tou jours quelque petit malheur interessant 
et amusant quand on ne s'y attend guere." 

That night they played the nocturne out of Sche- 
herazade, Rimsky-Korsakow's famous ballet. One phrase 
executed by the clarionets had a peculiarly gurgling 
sound. Our friend was not only musical, but humorous. 

44 Tiens ! Voila Scheherazade qui se brosse les dents 
avant de se mettre au lit. Ecoutez-moi 9a ; la voila qui 
se gargarise. Mais c'est tres bien, sapristi, c'est parfait ! " 

I forget whether it was in Petersburg or Moscow 
that I saw the really marvellous collection of saddle- 
cloths given by a Shah of Persia to one of the Czars, but 
I think it was in Petersburg. One of them I recollect 
perfectly. It was made of beautiful heliotrope cloth 
which was studded with large and splendid diamonds ; 
the value of that cloth must have been something fabulous. 

From Petersburg we went to Moscow, where we 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 353 

stayed for a few days. Whenever we weren't sightseeing 
I read extracts from La Guerre el la Paix and Anna 
Karenina. Somehow it helped me to understand both 
towns, which are so often mentioned by Tolstoi, and 
which are the scene of so many episodes in both books. 
The strange splendour of the Kremlin appealed to me 
immensely, and the other day, when I saw Chaliapine 
in Boris Godounow in the great, almost barbarically 
splendid room designed by Bakst, I felt as if I were once 
again within its walls. 

I saw some wonderful icons while I was in Moscow, 
icons that are held in the greatest veneration ; artistic- 
ally speaking they are not, I should think, of much 
account, but they must be worth thousands and thousands 
of pounds, for they are literally encrusted with magnifi- 
cent and enormous diamonds and precious stones of 
every sort and description. 

I cannot think without laughing of the scene that 
took place ' in our hotel bedroom the day we arrived 
in Moscow. We got there at a very early hour in the 
morning. Neither Emmie nor I spoke Russian, and the 
sleepy chambermaid who showed us to our room spoke 
nothing else. We tried to explain that we wanted 
some hot water, but it was quite impossible to make her 
understand. At last Emmie said 

" Oh, she's hopeless ; let's ring for some one else." 

But we saw no signs of a bell, and then we tried by 
every means at our disposal to find out from our pudding- 
headed attendant whether there was such a thing within 
reach. I walked up and down the room ringing an 
imaginary bell and singing, " Ting-a-ling-ling ! Ting-a- 
ling-ling ! " and did my best to look like a living note 
of interrogation, but she only stared at me with eyes 
as round as saucers. 

Then Emmie had an inspiration. She took hold of 
her hand, drew her to the wall, pressed an imaginary 
button, put her ear to the wall, and gave a prolonged 
whistle. The woman's eyes grew rounder and rounder, 
and at last, when I again began to pace up and down the 
2 3 



354 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

room ting-a-linging for all I was worth, a look of absolute 
terror came into her face, and she rushed out of the room 
as fast as her legs could carry her. She wasn't worth 
pursuing, and we sank on to our beds roaring with 
laughter, for it was quite evident she thought we were 
two escaped lunatics. 

We passed through Berlin on our way to the south. 
It was then that Von Zur Miihlen asked me to accompany 
him at one of his recitals, and it was on that occasion that 
he sang a group of my songs, including, " Wir wollten 
mit Kosen und Lieben." 

We wound up our tour in the Pyrenees, where we 
stayed with my cousin, John Price. He had a villa outside 
Pau, and we stayed there for about three weeks. Mrs. 
Harry White whose husband, Mr. Harry White, was 
formerly Ambassador in Rome and afterwards in Paris 
was spending the winter at the Hotel Gassion, and we 
saw a good deal of her. One day she gave me a new volume 
of poems by Tennyson. It included a poem called " The 
Throstle," which I set to music during that same visit 
to the south of France. It has been, I think, one of the 
most popular of my songs at least if the very, very kind 
reception it always meets with every time I have accom- 
panied it at concerts is any criterion. While I was at Pau 
I received news that obliged me to return to London, where 
I was detained for two or three months. I gave a concert 
that season at Prince's Hall (now Prince's Restaurant). 
Mr. Herbert Thorndike, who sang my baritone songs 
beautifully, was unable to assist me this time, and I was 
wondering whom I should ask, when a friend said to me 

44 Why don't you ask Plunket Greene ? He sings 
beautifully." 

44 Oh," I said, 44 1 have never heard him ; besides, I 
don't know him ! " 

My friend answered, ' 4 He sings your 4 Devout 
Lover' splendidly. I believe he'd like to sing for you. 
In fact, I'm certain he would do so, for he is perfectly 
charming. And he certainly is the coming man, though 
he is only about twenty-four." 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 355 

" Well," I thought, " I'm such years older than he is, 
I'll risk it." 

And that was the beginning of a dear friendship that 
meant a great deal to me. By return of post he wrote 
me one of the most delightful little notes I have ever re- 
ceived, saying he would sing for me with all the pleasure 
hi life ; and when we met for a rehearsal a day or two 
later, I thought him just as charming and even kinder 
than his kind little note. As to his singing, I loved it there 
and then. I love it still. I should love it if he hadn't 
a note left in his voice ! but at the time I am speaking 
of, his voice was lovely. It always touched me inexpress- 
ibly. His is the only voice that ever really reminded 
me of Santley's ; it had the same ring of enthusiasm in it 
that appealed to me so strongly in the older man. Years 
ago, at one of his recitals at St. James's Hall, he sang an 
old German sacred lullaby in which these words occur 

" O Jesu liebstes Kindelein 
Du kleines Kindelein 
Wie gross ist doch die Liebe dein 
Schleuss in das Herze mein 
Die grosse Liebe dein." 

I shall never forget the tenderness with which he 
sang those lines, the enthusiastic, the beautiful quality 
of that tenderness. He made you admire what he ad- 
mired ! He made you love what he loved ! And that day 
he evoked a vision of the little sacred Child as lovely 
and as touching as any that has been handed down to us 
by the great painters of old. 

The day I heard him sing that beautiful old song I 
had to make a decision, a decision that it cost me a good 
deal to arrive at. And what helped me to make up my 
mind to do what I thought bravest and best was the sheer 
beauty of the Divine Love suggested by his singing, the 
enthusiastic admiration with which he sang those lines 

" O Jesu liebstes Kindelein 
Du kleines Kindelein 
Wie gross ist doch die Liebe dein 
Schleuss in das Herze mein 
Die grosse Liebe dein." 



356 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

And as he sang, what seemed an intolerable sacrifice 
suddenly appeared to me in the light of a great, a unique 
opportunity of trying for once, at all events, to throw 
open the doors of my heart in order to allow that Love 
to enter and take complete possession of it. 

Ah, it's a great thing to be the artist who can make a 
fellow-creature feel like that ! 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

AFTER that long spell of travelling I began to think it 
would be rather nice to settle down for a while. The idea 
of a really charming flat in London, furnished according 
to my own ideas, where I could work in peace, where I 
could receive my many friends, and where I could lead 
the interesting and varied life that generally falls to the 
lot of most artists, smiled on me to a very considerable 
extent, and in the February of 1892 I took a flat in 
Ashley Gardens, Westminster. Mrs. Blackburn and her 
daughters were living in the flat above us ; one of them, 
Miss Grace Blackburn, afterwards married the Earl of 
Wemyss, who died only a few days ago. I saw a good 
deal of her, and also, during one season at all events, 
of Madame Melba, who took the flat on the first floor a 
few weeks after I had settled down. Her little boy and 
my small nephews, Jack and Edmund Compton, used to 
spend their exeats from school in London with us. 
One evening all three of them were playing cards in my 
flat. I was seated alone in the drawing-room when 
suddenly Jack opened the door and peeped in. He 
looked very mysterious. 

" I say," he whispered, " we haven't any counters, 
and young Armstrong says we can have his mother's 
pearls instead. He says he knows where they are. What 
do you think ? " 

Poor Madame Melba was singing at Covent Garden 
that night, little dreaming of the plot that was being 
hatched. But fortunately I was on the spot to tell the 
young monkeys what I thought, in very plain language 
indeed. 

That summer I met the great painter, G. F. Watts, 



358 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

for the first time. I went to his house one afternoon 
to play him a song I had written called " A Woman's 
Love." Miss Nellie Rowe, an Australian singer with 
a lovely contralto voice, was to have sung it for him, 
but she felt so nervous at the last moment that she begged 
to be let off, and I had to sing it myself, which, alas ! was 
a very different thing. I shall never forget the kindness 
with which he received us, nor the kindness he showed 
me on another occasion when I spent a Sunday at his 
delightful home at Limnerslease. Mrs. Watts had in- 
vited Harry Plunket Greene and myself to come down 
together and lunch there. We had a little music first, and 
then he took us into his studio, where his great picture, 
" Love Triumphant over Death and Time," was still 
hanging. The beautiful ecstatic figure of Love flying 
upwards affected me very strongly. I only remember 
being moved to tears by two pictures in all my life, and 
there was the same look of ecstasy in the. faces of both 
the principal figures. One was Titian's " Assumption 
of the Madonna " in the Accademia in Venice, and the 
other was this picture by G. F. Watts. 

Watts, as is well known, bore a strong resemblance 
to Titian. His personality was wonderfully attractive 
and sympathetic, and though he was already quite an old 
man when first I met him, he did not in the least convey 
an impression of age, nor did I at all feel that I was 
talking to some one so very much older than myself. A 
few days after that visit I received a letter from Mrs. 
Watts, accompanied by a beautiful photograph of the 
picture by which I had been so strongly moved. The 
celebrated signature in the tiny writing was in the corner. 
That picture hung for some years over the piano in my 
cottage at Taormina. One day I found my Sicilian 
servant Giovannino gazing at it very earnestly. As I 
came into the room he turned to me and said 

" I am glad this picture hangs over your piano, 
Signorina ! " 

I was surprised and said, " Why are you glad I hung 
it there ? " 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 359 

He answered, " Because you work here, Signorina. 
That figure," he continued, pointing to the beautiful 
central figure of Love flying upwards, " looks to me as if 
it were saying to you, ' Coraggio ! Avvanti ! ' " 

The splendid old artist was no more among us when 
Giovannino made this little speech, but I think it would 
have pleased him could he have heard it, for I remember, 
among other things, he said to me 

" We should always try to the best of our ability to 
help others by our work." 

That summer I went to Bayreuth for the first and 
only time. I heard Parsifal twice. It made a great im- 
pression on me ; the beautiful overture and exquisite 
Good Friday music could hardly fail to move any one ; 
nevertheless, I cannot say that the opera, as a whole, 
roused me to anything like the same enthusiasm as the 
Meistersinger, which of all Wagner's works is the one I 
love far and away the best. I remember once when I 
was very hard up indeed, a performance of the Meister- 
singer was announced with a very brilliant caste. I made 
up my mind to see it, even if I had to climb up to the gods ! 
And so extraordinarily unexpected are the incidents in an 
artist's life, that as a matter of fact I heard that per- 
formance from the Royal box at Covent Garden ! It had 
been lent to Countess Valda Gleichen for that night, and 
she invited me to go with her. That was only one of the 
many good turns she has done me, for a kinder and more 
faithful friend never lived. That performance took place 
on my birthday, the 23rd of June, the Johannemacht on 
which the story is supposed to have happened. Harry 
Plunket Greene was also there. His birthday is on the 
24th of June (Johannestag), and it is, of course, on that 
day that the great Meistersinger competition takes place 
in Wagner's opera. For years we used to wire to each 
other on our birthdays 

" Griiss Gott, Johanna ! " and, " Gliick auf , Hans ! " 

Before Emmie and her husband left for Chile, I gave a 
little party at Ashley Gardens. Madame Melba offered to 
sing my song " John Anderson," and you may be sure I 



360 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

had no refusals once it was known that she was going to 
sing for me. The party, which began in the most proper 
and orthodox way, had a really comical ending. One of 
my friends entered the room on tiptoe, while Mr. David 
Bispham, I think, was singing. His whole attitude 
proclaimed that he wished to be seen and heard as little 
as possible. Alas, all his precautions were perfectly 
useless ! Fate led him to a chair with a detachable seat, 
which flew out amongst the guests, while he went through 
the empty hole on to the floor, to every one's undisguised 
amusement except his own. The Due d' Orleans was 
one of my guests that day. I asked him to sing, and he 
answered that he would do so with the greatest pleasure 
the moment I wished to break up the party ! As he 
assured me his singing was always followed by a general 
exodus, I pressed him no further. 

I spent some delightful months at Ashley Gardens, but 
eighteen months after my sister's marriage I went out to 
Chile to see her. It was at sea (outside the bar, near 
Paulliac) that I wrote my "Farewell Song," which, later 
on, Miss Marie Brema sang so beautifully. That visit to 
Chile was in many respects very like the first one. So 
much so, that to describe it would be almost like going 
over old ground. The only thing of real interest was 
the return journey, when I rode over the Andes with my 
sister and her husband. 

The mountains can now be crossed by rail and by 
carriage, but when we crossed the Cordillera twenty years 
ago, it still took twelve hours' hard riding. The scenery 
was superb. We were caught in a severe snowstorm on 
the Argentine side, and when we arrived at the shanty 
where we were to spend the night, the snow on the front of 
my riding jacket had frozen to a solid sheet of ice and my 
hands were numb so numb that I had ridden for the last 
two or three hours with the bridle thrown over my wrist ! 

I returned to England towards Easter in the year 
1893, and again spent the summer at Ashley Gardens. I 
composed a great many songs that summer. I wrote an 
album of six Volkslieder, and set several poems by Sully 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 361 

Prudhomme and Rossetti. " Si j'etais Dieu " and 
" Priere " by the former, and " Infinite Love " by the 
latter poet, were two of my own favourites. " Si j'etais 
Dieu " has been often and beautifully sung by Madame 
Conti, who was introduced to me by a dear friend of my 
girlhood, Mrs. George Holland. Madame Conti on very 
many occasions has most kindly helped me at my con- 
certs. " Infinite Love " was sung most beautifully 
both by Mr. Plunket Greene and Miss Marie Brema. 

Although I thoroughly enjoyed my time at Ashley 
Gardens, still I did not renew the lease in fact, I never 
again had a flat of my own in London. I took a tiny rose- 
covered cottage at Pinner and lived there for eighteen 
months. It was there that I received an amusing letter 
from Lord Pembroke, inviting me to spend Christmas at 
Wilton. My cottage was situated in a pretty shady lane 
which rejoiced in the absurd name of " Love Lane." He 
wrote 

" I am sending this letter to your sweetly squalid 
address and only hope it may find you ! " 

I wrote back to say it might sound squalid but that I 
loved it, and that anyhow it suited the squalid state of my 
finances to absolute perfection ! 

Dear Liza Lehmann was one of my near neighbours 
during that time, and I used to see a good deal of her. I 
was dining at her house in London not long ago, and she 
recalled to my mind an absurd story which Mr. Landon 
Ronald, who was also dining there, insisted on repeating 
from beginning to end, to my infinite amusement. Here 
is the story as it stands after being " edited " first of all by 
Mr. Barry Pain, then by Mr. Pett Ridge, and finally by 
Mr. Landon Ronald ! 

Liza had been to stay with her sister Amelia (Mrs. 
Barry Pain), and had announced that she was feeling very 
slack, " as if I must flop," to use her own words. Barry 
Pain then said, " Look here, Liza, try Kepler's Extract 
of Malt. I hear it is marvellous." It was after this that 
she and I met in the underground, and had the following 
conversation 



362 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

LIZA. " How are you, Maudie darling ? " 
I. " Oh, not at all well ; as weak as a rat. I feel 
exactly as if my legs were made of brown paper soaked 
in hot water." 

LIZA. " Why, how extraordinary ! That is ex- 
actly my case, but Barry tells me that Elliman's Em- 
brocation is too marvellous for words, and I'm going to 
try it. And so must you. Believe me, Barry knows 
what he is talking about." 

We then parted and went off to our respective ap- 
pointments. 

We met again after a few days, and again we reverted 
to the same topic. 

LIZA. " Well, Maudie, how are you ? But I needn't 
ask you look a different creature ! " 

I. " I am indeed ! I took that Mother Seigel's 
Syrup that you and Barry recommended so strongly, and 
all I can say is, I feel ten years younger. It has been a 
huge success." 

LIZA. " My dear, what Barry recommended was 
4 Pink Pills for Pale People.' That is what / have been 
taking and they have done wonders for me. But you 
can always rely implicitly on anything that Barry recom- 
mends. He knows ! " 

Mr. Landon Ronald told this tale with all sorts of 
additions, and told it so amusingly that I said to Liza 

" He really is a born raconteur." 

" Oh," she said laughing, " no wonder he tells that 
story well. He has dined out on it for the last ten 
years ! " 

It was at Pinner that I received a letter from Mary 
Anderson, whom I had not seen for a very long time, 
saying that she was back in London, and was longing to 
introduce her husband to me. Wouldn't I come and 
dine with them ? I was perfectly delighted to hear from 
her again, and also to meet her husband, and it was not 
long after that dinner that she asked me to come and 
spend a few days with them at the Lygon Arms, at Broad- 
way. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 363 

" I do so want you to see this lovely little village," 
she wrote. " We are staying here to be near our dear 
old friends, the Millets ; you must know them too, for I 
am certain you would get on splendidly together." 

And that is how, a few days later, I came across the 
old Bell Farm a tumble-down cottage with which I fell 
in love on the spot, and which I determined to take on a 
long lease. It would be easy enough, I thought, to restore 
it. 

There was another and larger house next door, also 
in rather a tumble -down condition, with which Mary had 
fallen equally in love. She persuaded her husband to 
take it. He did so, and, after a few weeks, Mr. Grimmett, 
the local builder, had invaded both houses with a host of 
workmen. We thought we were never going to see the 
last of them ! We talked " Grimmett," we ranted 
" Grimmett," we dreamed " Grimmett " in fact, we 
never had his name off our lips, but at last we got rid of 
him and his workmen, and the spring of 1896 found us 
both happily installed in our new homes, slowly recover- 
ing from what Frank Millet called " an acute attack of 
4 Grimmettisis ' ! " 

I spent about five years in Broadway. I am now 
writing these lines in my old bedroom with its lovely 
look-out on to the wooded hills and peaceful meadows 
that I love so much, and I find it difficult indeed, when 
I look at my dear, kind hostess, to realise that so many 
years have elapsed since this charming old house passed 
from my possession into hers. The years have indeed 
dealt kindly with Mary Anderson. They have not 
robbed her of any of youth's most precious possessions ; 
she is still beautiful, still slim, still light-hearted and 
gay in fact, were she to return to the stage, the public, 
I venture to say, would hardly believe its own eyes. 
And if the years have been kind to her, even they haven't 
been half as kind as her husband dear, kind, beloved old 
Tony, than whom a truer, a more unselfish, and con- 
siderate friend never existed. 

When I first made my home in Broadway, Frank 



364 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Millet lived there with his wife and family all the year 
round. He lost his life in the tragic wreck of the Titanic, 
when all of us lost a dear and incomparable friend. To 
him, indeed, one could apply those words of Hamlet 

" He was a man, take him for all in all 
I shall not look upon his like again." 

He was not only lovable and amusing but I think he 
was, without exception, the most versatile human being 
I have ever known. Edwin A. Abbey, the well-known 
American artist, used to say of him 

" Frank can do anything, from untying a knot to 
restoring a Gothic chapel." 

He was clever all round. When he wasn't painting 
he was writing; among other things he wrote a book of 
charming short stories called A Capillary Crime. He 
was an admirable war correspondent, and was decorated 
by the Czar's brother for an act of signal bravery during 
the Russo-Turkish War. 

I had known him for years before I ever heard of the 
following incident, and when at last he told me the history 
of the beautiful medal that hung on a nail in an out-of- 
the-way corner of his studio at Broadway, he told it with 
characteristic simplicity. He was accompanying a de- 
tachment of Russian cavalry which was going to the 
rescue of comrades who had been attacked by the Turks. 
They came to a river and, to their horror, found that the 
bridge had been destroyed. Without a moment's hesita- 
tion Frank rode his horse into the water ; when they 
saw him crossing the river they all followed to a man. 

The last time that dear Frank Millet was seen alive, 
he was helping a poor Italian emigrant woman into one 
of the boats into which every friend who loved him felt 
so certain that he would never set foot while there was 
a woman or child left on board the ill-fated Titanic. 
He was seen, cheery to the last, waving his hand to her. 
He loved Italy and the Italians. I spent a week with 
him at the Villa Aurelia in Rome only three months 
before his death, just after he had been appointed Head 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 365 

of the American School of Art in that city. He was 
popular with literally everyone. During that week he 
asked me if I would help him to entertain his guests at 
a big reception which he intended giving in his official 
capacity. Mrs. Millet (who afterwards wrote me a very 
amusing letter on the subject, saying, " Frank has written 
to tell me all about the party you gave, and now you write 
and tell me all about the party Frank gave ") was in New 
York at the time, so I gladly agreed to play hostess, 
and again I found my unconventional situation backed 
up by everyone ! We entertained a goodly portion of 
the Foreign colony, including the English, American, and 
Chinese Ambassadors, and the Church was represented 
by Cardinal then Abbot Gasquet, who came over from 
San Anselmo, the Benedictine Monastery on the Aventine 
Hill, to our eyrie on the Janiculum. He was extremely 
fond of Frank Millet, who was devoted to him. I also 
knew him pretty well, for I had often met him in Broadway 
where we once were both visitors for a week or so at 
Court Farm. I remember how we all three laughed to- 
gether at this new edition of " His Official Wife ! " and 
I said to Abbot Gasquet 

" Well, the only thing I can think of to make this pro- 
ceeding quite correct is for you to bless this temporary 
and unholy union between Frank and myself." 

And he was of opinion that it could be quite easily 
managed ! I can't, however, say truthfully that the 
ceremony actually took place ! 

I loved Frank Millet, and I think I may say, without 
exaggerating, that he was very fond of me too. I re- 
member the twinkle in his eye when, at one of the Court 
Farm dinner-parties, Mary said to him 

" Frank, will you take in Maude ? " 

He gave me his arm and said in an audible whisper, 
" Would a duck swim ! " 

He and Mary used to call each other " The Twins," 
and to see them dance a cake-walk together, while they 
both sang nigger songs, was too amusing for words. How 
often have we not all sat up together late into the night 



366 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

telling stories round the great log fire in the old hall 
at Court Farm ! Tony and Mary, Alfred Parsons, Frank 
Millet and his wife, Harry Plunkei Greene, and myself 
what laughing and chaffing went on ! 

One of these stories is so characteristically American 
that I really must tell it. 

One fearfully hot day a woman, overcome with 
fatigue, staggered into a small store in some city "way 
out West." The shopman was half asleep behind the 
counter. She asked faintly for some powder, whereupon 
the man said drowsily 

" Face, gun, or bug ? " 

But an English story I know can hold its own with any 
American yarn ! A Londoner went down to the country 
for a rest, and after a week requested that his bill should 
be sent in. He thought it very reasonable till he came 
to the last item. After reading that he had had two 
shillingsworth of eggs, he was informed that he must pay 
another two shillings for " Wear and tear of hen ! " 

On one occasion Harry Plunket Greene, who was 
always playing practical jokes on one or other of us, left 
a disgraceful old shaving-brush behind him. Tony 
attached a label to it, and, to pay him out, sent this mangy- 
looking object to the Junior Carlton Club where it lay 
for days unclaimed. But Harry had his revenge. One 
day a hamper arrived from Scotland marked " Game," 
with large bunches of heather sticking out on all sides. 
There were great rejoicings. We all had visions of 
grouse galore ! Not a bit of it ! There was nothing in 
the hamper except a tiny parcel at the very bottom, 
which turned out to be the horrible old shaving-brush. 
After a month or so the same trick was played on me, 
and I also was completely taken in ! 

I was so impatient to get into my house and settle 
down that I did not even wait for the front door to be 
put up. My sister and her six children were staying 
with me so were Countess Valda Gleichen, Harry Plunket 
Greene, and Kennerley-Rumford. None of them seemed 
to care two straws whether there was a front door or not. 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 367 

In fact, when I invited Harry down, I told him he would 
very likely have to sleep in the kennel with a huge dog 
I had just bought. I thought this dog would be quite 
as effective as a front door. With such a party in the 
cottage I then thought the next best move would be to 
buy a huge sirloin of beef. This was hung up in the 
kitchen. But " divil a bit " of beef was there the next 
morning. Whether the dog had walked off with it, or a 
passing tramp, I know not, but I dropped a tear over the 
butcher's book that week and hurried up the front door ! 

There is no doubt that my new dog unlike my little 
terrier was what I once heard a poor woman call a 
militant suffragette, i.e., "A disgrace to her seek ! " 
but the de Navarros had a dog who beat mine hollow ! 
He indulged in strange and fearful meals perhaps he 
was a Futurist dog but anyhow it was discovered one 
day that he had dined on a box of liver pills, half a porous 
plaster, and an " Ode to St. Cecilia ! " 

I don't know who first thought of instituting the famous 
cricket matches which took place for three or four years 
at Broadway, but the rival Elevens consisted of literary 
men versus artists, and, to my certain knowledge, several 
brilliant men who most distinctly hit the public taste 
never once hit the cricket ball that was used on these 
occasions, though others played really well. Among the 
men who played in these cricket matches were 

Sir A. Conan Doyle, J. M. Barrie, Augustine Birrell, 
A. E. Mason, Owen Seaman, Bernard Partridge, Alfred 
Parsons, Frank Millet, Tony de Navarro, Harry Plunket 
Greene, Kennerley-Rumford, and several others whose 
names have escaped my memory. We always wound up 
by a dance in Frank Millet's studio which was followed 
by a merry supper. After one of these cricket matches 
J. M. Barrie wrote a most amusing letter to his host 
Tony de Navarro. He wound it up with the following 
words 

" Give my kindest regards to your beautiful wife whose 
enthusiasm for cricket only equals my ignorance thereof." 

Now and again we found it difficult to make up the 



368 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

two Elevens, for it was an absolute sine qua non that all 
the visitors should be well-known literary men, or well- 
known painters or musicians. Once, when we were in a 
quandary, I proposed that the father of the local tailor 
should be invited to make up the Eleven. His name was 
Lyes. It seemed to me that the " Father of Lies " was 
a good deal more celebrated than all the rest of us put 
together, and this in spite of the fact that Alma Tadema 
and John Sargent were sometimes guests at Russell 
House the Millet's lovely home at Broadway. There 
is a portrait of Mrs. Millet in the drawing-room of Russell 
House that is one of the most beautiful portraits I have 
ever seen. Needless to say it is the work of John Sargent. 
At an exhibition in America I can't remember in 
which town it was unanimously agreed that it was to 
have the place of honour. As the portrait was put on 
the easel for the Committee to pass its judgment, there 
was one unanimous cry 

" Up she goes ! " 

And in dear Frank Millet's old studio hangs the sketch 
that John Sargent made for his celebrated picture, 
" Carnation Lily, Lily Rose." Polly and Dorothy Bar- 
nard, the daughters of F. Barnard, the well-known 
black-and-white artist, are the original of the two children 
in the picture. 

Ah yes, we had gay times at Broadway. Sometimes 
I gave a concert at the Lygon Arms in the big room 
where the county balls are held. One of my concerts 
took place during the week that Mr. Pinero was staying 
there putting the finishing touches to his play, The Gay 
Lord Quex. He had gone there to ensure having a 
perfectly quiet time, poor man ! And there were we 
invading the lovely old inn, having the huge billiard- 
table transformed into a platform, and generally turning 
the whole place topsy-turvy. 

The concerts always went off splendidly. One farmer, 
when asked how he liked rny playing, said 

" Why, Miss White, she do pick up the notes of the 
pianner as quick as my hens do pick up the grain ! " 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 369 

Again and again have I been assisted by Miss Marie 
Brema, Madame Conti, Miss Louise Dale, Wieniawski's 
brilliant daughter, who writes under the pseudonym of 
Poldowski, and who in private life is Lady Dean Paul ; 
Lady Maud Warrender, whose beautiful contralto voice 
has so tender a ring in it ; Lady Maud Bowes-Lyon, one 
of the finest amateur violinists I know ; Harry Plunket 
Greene, Kennerley-Rumford, and Theodore Byard. 

Miss Louise Dale, who is now Mrs. Ronald Earle, 
once told me of an amusing experience she had at some 
seaside place where she had taken her little boy. They 
were quietly seated on the sands when a man, dressed 
in a shiny black frockcoat and black shiny trousers, 
rolled the latter up to his knees and waded out into the 
water to catch shrimps. On his head he wore a black 
bowler. The little boy looked at him with the greatest 
interest, but presently a look of awe dawned on his face. 
He crept to his mother's side and whispered 

" Mummy, is that God ? " 

And once Lady Speyer came down and played at one 
of these concerts. She was not Lady Speyer then, but 
she was one of my guests at the old Bell Farm, and so 
was Sir Edgar Speyer. They met for the first time at my 
cottage, and I had the pleasure of introducing them to 
each other. A year or two afterwards I received a 
telegram signed by both of them 

" We are going to be married. Thank you so much 
for having invited us to your cottage ! " 

And I think Sir Edgar must have felt very grateful 
indeed, for he certainly has always been an exceedingly 
kind friend to me. No wonder he fell a victim ! Lady 
Speyer not only looked quite beautiful that evening, 
but she played splendidly. I accompanied her, and well 
do I remember the enthusiastic way she was applauded 
by every one. And I had actually tried to persuade her 
not to come down for the concert. I had said to her, 
"It's only a village concert ; it's really not worth 
your while." But she had answered 
24 



370 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

" Well, I feel as if I'd like to play at a concert in 
England, and I'll come anyhow." 

No wonder the Arabs say that fate has hung each 
man's destiny round his neck ! And when I saw Lady 
Speyer at the Russian Opera the other night, fate had 
hung a very beautiful rope of pearls round her neck into 
the bargain. 

That delightful artist, Phil May, often visited Broad- 
way. On one occasion, while Kennerley-Rumford was 
singing my song, " The Protest," in my little study at Bell 
Farm, I noticed that he was sketching. The words, " I 
will not let thee go " and " I dare not let thee go," occur 
in this poem, and when I finished accompanying my song, 
Phil May handed me two sketches. One of them repre- 
sented a thief, just collared by a policeman, the other a 
man clinging to the mane of his horse in front of a six- 
barred gate ! 

I wrote a great many songs while I lived in Broadway, 
among others, the " Three Little Songs," called 1. " When 
the Swallows Homeward Fly " (which Frank Millet always 
called, " When I swallowed home-made pie ! ") ; 2. " A 
Memory " ; 3. " Let us Forget " which became very 
popular, and which were most beautifully sung by 
Kennerley-Rumford. He and Harry Plunket Greene be- 
tween them sang most of my bass and baritone songs : 
" How do I love Thee ! " " King Charles," " The Pro- 
test," " Marching Along," " Crabbed Age and Youth," 
" Stand to your Horses," and " The Old Grey Fox," to say 
nothing of innumerable of my German songs, which they 
sang from one end of England to the other. I shall never 
forget one concert that was given at Epsom, near Ken- 
nerley-Rumford's home. I had been miserably unwell 
for a very long time. My friends were always urging 
me to take a rest, or go abroad, but a composer is, in 
most cases, anything but a millionaire, and my one answer 
was, " I simply can't afford it." When I received a 
letter from Bertie Rumford, asking me if I would accom- 
pany Harry Greene and himself in a number of my songs 
at Epsom, I was feeling really ill, but I was so fond of 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 371 

them both that I felt I simply couldn't refuse. And I 
went from Broadway to Epsom and played a solo and 
helped with the accompaniments. I was putting on my 
cloak in the artists' room at the end of the concert when 
Harry came up to me. He said excitedly 

" Just you go and give Bertie Rumford the biggest 
hug you ever gave any one in all your life ! " 

I said, " Good gracious ! Why ? " 

" Why ? " he cried ; " because it's been your concert, 
because you've been ill, and because he wants this very 
minute to hand you over the whole of the proceeds." 

I could have cried my eyes out when he told me this ; 
it was so absolutely and utterly unexpected, and the 
kindness and delicacy with which the whole thing had 
been arranged bowled me completely over. 

And I did give Bertie Rumford " the biggest hug I 
ever gave any one in all my life " a regular bear's hug ! 
He was a bachelor in those days, and I was very nearly 
old enough to be his mother but not quite ! (I mustn't 
give myself away all along the line !) 

One day Miss Minnie Chappell asked me to tea. 
I loved going to the pretty house in Weymouth Street, 
where she kept house for her uncle " Uncle Arthur," 
as every one called Mr. Arthur Chappell. And I had 
grown very fond of her. She gave charming little dinners, 
at which one always felt quite certain beforehand that 
one was going to enjoy oneself. On the afternoon in 
question she had invited me to meet Robert Hichens, 
and from that day to this he has been my faithful friend. 
At the time of the Berlin Congress, years and years ago, 
I remember reading in the papers that Lord Beaconsfield 
was the only man who did not wear a decoration, and that 
he stood out from the whole crowd from this very fact. 
Well, I am going to decorate dear Robert Hichens with 
the badge of Silence the decoration I know he would 
prefer, the badge that shall distinguish my dear best 
friend even among the lovable crowd who, each one, 
has so warm a place in my heart. 

My life in Broadway was nearly over. I had a dreadful 



372 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

illness there that, following shortly after a bad accident 
out riding, and another fall while climbing up a hill, 
made a complete invalid of me for some time. After I 
recovered I went to Ober-Ammergau, and saw the beauti- 
ful and touching Passion Play, and for almost the first 
time in my life I realised the divine beauty of some 
failures, the ugliness and cruelty of some triumphs. 

I returned to Broadway for the winter, and that spring 
Robert Hichens came to pay me a short visit, and wrote 
the first chapter of The Garden of Allah in my cottage. 
We had an interesting conversation before he began the 
book. He thought, and asked me if I did not think, that 
the great sacrifice made by Domini would be even finer, 
if made by a woman with a definite religion, but who was 
too fine to stand between the man she loves and his own 
conscience. I said I thought no woman on earth would 
make such a sacrifice, unless her own religion, deeply 
believed in, laid it upon her as a sacred duty. I thought 
most emphatically that otherwise she would cling to her 
happiness and never let it go. He eventually, as all the 
world knows, made both his hero and his heroine root 
and branch Catholics. 

I remember with what anxiety I read the first criti- 
cisms, and with what pleasure I read in the admirable 
and long criticism in the Daily Telegraph that the fact of 
his having made Domini a Catholic made the whole story 
seem far more probable and was likely to rouse far more 
sympathy on her behalf. 

In November 1901 I left Broadway for good. I felt 
sure my health would be better if I lived in the south, 
and fortunately for me the de Navarros were quite 
willing to take my house off my hands, as they were 
anxious to enlarge their own. Just before leaving 
England Robert Hichens invited me to a supper-party 
he was giving in honour of Madame Sarah Bernhardt, who 
was, among other things, acting L'Aiglon in London. 
I sat beside Sir Henry Irving, who sat next Madame 
Bernhardt, and I certainly had my work cut out that 
evening, for Sir Henry didn't speak French Madame 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 373 

Bernhardt only spoke a few words of English and I was 
their interpreter from the beginning to the end of that 
supper. I remember thinking that Sarah Bernhardt had 
the most attractive smile I had ever seen; the way it 
lit up her face was enchanting. I liked Sir Henry Irving 
very much indeed. Lady Cowper once said to me 

" He is the greatest gentleman I know." And her 
opinion was certainly well worth having. 

I wrote the incidental music for The Medicine Man, 
a play by Mr. Traill and Robert Hichens, which was 
produced at the Lyceum, and I saw a good deal of Sir 
Henry during that time. His kindness and courtesy 
were unfailing, and it was a real pleasure to have any- 
thing to do with him. But oh, what agonies it is to 
write incidental music for a play ! At every instant 
the orchestra was stopped and some one would say, even 
if they were playing pianissimo 

" We can't hear ourselves speak. Please take out all 
the wind instruments and put mutes on the violins." 

No sooner had this been done than another objection 
was raised. 

" Heavens ! How dull it sounds ! Isn't something 
wanting ? " 

I felt inclined to rush out and say 

" Look here, if some one cut off your noses, and pulled 
out your teeth, all of you would also be rather less good- 
looking than you are now ! " 

Bad luck as far as my health was concerned 
pursued me even on to the Continent. I had intended 
spending part of the winter in Rome and Naples, but 
I was again taken ill in Paris at No. 6 Rue Kepler, my old 
school, where I had gone to stay for a few days. I was 
so dreadfully ill that I asked to be removed to the Hospital 
of St. Joseph just outside Paris, and there I lay for nearly 
six weeks with pneumonia and bronchitis. It was a 
horrible experience, but I was nursed with the greatest 
tenderness by a dear sister of charity, Sceur Vincent. 
She was a Bretonne. Once she said to me 

" Ecoutez ! je m'en vais a la chapelle prier le bon 



374 FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 

Dieu pour vous, mais si vous toussez a mon retour, eh 
bien, demain je lui dirai des sottises ! " 

She was a perfect darling. The portress who an- 
swered the telephone was anything but a darling. When 
my friends telephoned for the third or fourth time to 
know if I was still alive, she was so bored that she 
telephoned back 

" Elle va parfaitement bien et mange comme un ogre ! " 

But at last a day came round when the doctor said to 
me, " Savez vous que vous allez guerir," and about three 
weeks later I was allowed to leave the hospital. 

I spent two or three days at the Hotel des deux Mondes, 
in the Avenue de 1' Opera, where I had asked my cousin, 
Juanita Drury, to meet me, as I had decided to go to 
Sicily and did not dare travel alone. The doctor had 
advised either Sicily or Algiers, but I chose Sicily. 
During the whole time I was ill I had had the kindest 
letters from Robert Hichens, cheering me up, assuring 
me that the climate of Taormina was certain to restore 
me to health and strength. He was out there himself, 
having fallen in love with the place, and his accounts 
of Sicily made me long to go back there. 

One night the kind English doctor from the Rue 
d'Agesseau, Dr. Robinson, came to fetch me in his 
brougham. He took me to the station and saw me into 
the train. I heard afterwards that none of my friends 
really expected me to live. But I didn't know that, 
and with the exception of a day's rest in Florence and 
a few hours in Naples, I travelled straight through to 
Taormina. 

I can't think of that arrival in Sicily without crying. 
I was still very weak, a mere wreck of my former self, 
but as we drew near the Straits of Messina and looked 
out over the sea to the beautiful blue mountains of Sicily, 
as the train rushed past the splendid golden orange 
groves, the wild fantastic cactus bushes and the great 
showers of scarlet geraniums on one side, the lovely 
stretches of beach on the other ; as I watched the little 
fishing boats sail away in the wonderful light of that 



FRIENDS AND MEMORIES 



375 



God-blessed morning to the shores of the enchanted, 
the beloved island that lay like the Promised Land in 
front of us, bathed in the glow of the rising sun, a vision 
of happy, radiant loveliness I felt as if the Spirit of Joy 
had suddenly snatched me up in her arms, and was 
breathing new life into my tired body, new hope into my 
tired heart. Oh, the change, the splendid change from 
the sad, dark hospital, from the snow and slush of Paris ! 
I can still hear the sound of my own voice, weak and 
shaky as it was, calling to my cousin 
:c Wake up ! wake up ! it's summer ! " 
Yes, it was summer, though it was Christmas Eve ! 
It will always be summer for me in Sicily, where the first 
music I heard was that of the beautiful old Pastorale, 
that is played in all the churches and in front of all the 
mangers that are set up in many a Taormina cottage 
to celebrate the birth of the dear Bambino. 

I lived for many years in Sicily, but every year, with 
one exception, I returned to England and to Broadway 
dear Broadway ! But there is something in Italy, 
something in Sicily, that lures me back, that holds an 
eternal charm for me. I am happy there. What more 
can I say ? 

Giojoso. 



^=d*=t 
^=fc^ 



|S _ I j 



Oh, Si - ci - ly, Si - ci - ly, crowned with the foam of the 




blue I - on - ian sea ! 



INDEX 



ABBEY, EDWIN A., 364. 

Aconcagna, Mt., 213. 

Adie, Hamilton, 330. 

Albion Street, 237 ff. 

Alexander, Sir George, 328. 

Alexandra, Queen, 226, 232. 

Alexandrine, Princess, 45-6, 50. 

Altavilla, Signer, 69-70. 

Amalfi, 326. 

Americans, 51 ff. 

Andersen, Hans, 290. 

Anderson, Mary. See de Navarro, Mme. 

Ann, 280. 

Arbuthnot, Sir Robert, 4-5. 
Argos, 343. 

Arnold, Matthew, 148-9, 188, 228, 

308. 

Ashley Gardens, 357. 
Ashridge, 321. 
Asquith, Mrs. (Margot Tennant), 241 

ff, 246 ff. 

Miss Elizabeth, 242. 

Miss Violet, 242. 
Athens, 341. 
Avelina, 75. 

B , Mme., 71-2. 

Bach, 167 ; as " Bark," 91. 

Bagot, Rev. , 167. 

Baldwin, Miss, 1 1 8. 

Balfour, Mr. (" Macfiend "), 287-8. 

Mrs., 277, 282. 

A.J., 167, 248. 

Christopher, 286. 

Monty, 286-7. 

family, 332, 336. 

Barnard, Polly and Dorothy, 368. 
Bath, 125-6. 
Baur, M., 64. 

Jacques, 49, 55. 
Bayreuth, 359. 



Bective, Lady, 225, 231. 
Bedford, Herbert, 173. 
Bellasis, Father Richard, 235. 
Bennett, Sterndale, 136. 
Bcranger's granddaughters, 60. 
Berenson, Mr., cited, 299. 
Bernhardt, Mme. Sarah, 44, 338, 

372-3- 

Birger, Mme., 321, 324, 325. 
Birmingham Musical Festivals, 56, 234. 
Bismarck, Prince, 310. 
Bispham, David, 360. 
Bjornson, 306. 
Blackburn, Mrs., 357. 
Blumenkranz, 35-6. 
Blumenthal, Jacques, 313, 337. 
Borodin, 352. 
Brahms, 167. 
Brema, Marie, 360-1. 
Brewood, 55. 
British exclusiveness, 216. 
Broadway, 314, 363 ff; garden at, 

103 ; cricket matches at, 367-8. 
Bromley, Edith, 118. 
Broughton, Rhoda, 85-7. 
Brownlow, Lady, 317, 321-3. 
Bucknall, Margaret, 158. 
Buda, 270. 
Burke, Miss, 324. 
Edmund, 2. 
Burnett, Mrs. Hodgson, 325. 
Burns "My ain kind dearie O!" 

174-5- 

Caillard, Sir Vincent, 348. 
Cannes, 323. 
Capri, 100, 324-5. 
Carlos, Don, 218-19. 
Carlsbad, 310-12. 
Carreno, Mme. Teresa, 90. 
Carter, Miss Agnes, 111-12. 



377 



378 



INDEX 



Celestino, 214. 
Champery, 306. 
Chapel Ash, 5. 
Chappell, Arthur, 371. 

Minnie, 371. 
Chile : 

church customs in, 217. 

food and cookery in, 215. 

guitar-playing in, 218-19. 

language peculiarity, 220-2. 

Loba, 212. 

natural products of, 215-16. 

reports of, 125. 

riding in, 219-20. 

second visit to, 360. 

Spanish domestic architecture in, 214. 

Valparaiso, 213 ff. 

voyage to, 206 ff; voyage home, 

220-2. 

Chilians, 75, 216. 
Cobbett, , 151-5. 

Sarah, 152-3. 
Compton, Anita, 125, 126. 

Annie, 7, 83, 90, 92, 153-4, 204, 

212, 216 ; devotion to, 57. 

Jack and Edmund, 357. 
Constantinople, 347-8. 
Conti, Mme., 361. 
Cordillera, 360. 

Court Farm, 314. 
Cousine, Sefiora, 212. 
Cowen, Frederick, 79. 
Cowper, Earl, 294. 

Lady, 295 ff ; quoted, 373. 
Crawford, Marion, 26, 293. 
Cui Cesar, 352. 

Curtis, Mr. and Mrs., 337. 
Curzon, Lord, 248. 
Cusins, W. G., 175, 176. 

Dalecarlia, 287, 289. 

d' Alvarez, M. Levi, 59-60, 6r. 

d'Andrade. See Navarro. 

Dartmoor village concert, 113-14. 

Davenport, Frank, 173, 183-5. 

Davison, James, 126-7. 

de Gunzburg, Baroness Jacques, 307. 

de Laboulaye, Mme., 2, 207. 

Edouard, 2, 47. 

Paul, 207. 

de Navarro, Mme. (Mary Anderson), 
introduction to, and early friend- 



ship, 313 ff; ghost stories, 316 ff; 

as Perdita, 320; at Broadway, 

56, 103-4, 314 ff, 362-3, 365 ; 

quoted, 129. 

de Navarro, Jose ("Toty"), 56, 65. 
-Tony, 82, 314-15, 363. 
de Segur, Mme., 42. 
de Soria, Jules Diaz, 291. 
Demidoff, Prince, 307. 
Denison, Morrison, 116. 
des Voisins, Count Gilbert, 66. 
Dickens, Charles, 80. 

Dickinson, , 34-5. 

d'Orleans, Due, 360. 
Dornbirn, 15-16. 
Dorpfeld, Dr., 345. 
Dresden, 18-20, 233. 
Dudley, Lord, 130. 

Earle, Mrs., 301. 

Mrs. Ronald (Louise Dale), 369. 
Eden, Frederick, 336. 

Edward vn., King, 321-2. 

Eleusis, 342. 

Elizabeth, Empress of Austria, 343. 

Epsom, concert at, 370-1. 

Essipoff, Mme., 266. 

Eugenie, Empress, 44. 

Eyres, Mr., 139-40, 176, 179-80. 

Falcon, Luchie, 105-6. 

Feilden, Mrs. Arbuthnot, 112, 117, 

159, 166, 198, 236. 
Fernandez, Nieves, 219. 
Ferstel, Baron, 259. 

Baroness, 256, 258, 260. 

Carl, 260. 

Erwin, 260-3, 265. 268, 349. 

family, 258 ff. 

Florence, 82, 96, 324 ; statue in Santa 

Trinita, 189. 
Forster, Miss, 80-2. 

Father Cyril, 82-3. 
Freischutz, Der, 233. 

Fuchs, Herr Robert, 261-2, 264-5. 

G , Alice, 53-4, 66. 

Gardner, 37. 

Gaskell, Mrs. Henry, 236, 238, 317. 

Gasquet, Cardinal, 364. 

German governesses, 61-3. 

Gill, Mr., 140. 



INDEX 



379 



Gladstone, W. E., 135, 163, 308. 

Mrs., 132-4. 

Gleichen, Countess Valda, 359, 366. 

Glen, The (Innerleithen), 247-8. 

Goold, Ethel, 136. 

Gordon, General, 302. 

Granville, Lord and Lady, 248. 

Greece, 340 ff. 

Greene, H. Plunket, voice of, 202, 355 ; 
friendship with, 355 ; birthday of, 
359 ; shaving-brush of, 366 ; the 
Epsom concert, 370 ; quoted, 320 ; 
mentioned, 157, 358, 361. 

Grosvenor, Norman, 176. 

Groves, Sir George, 167-8. 

Hall, Gertrude, 330. 

Hallowes, Mrs. (Fanny Robertson), 

128. 

Hamburg, 232. 

Hamilton, Lord Frederick, 222. 
Hanson, Mrs., 347. 
Harrington, Bob, 280. 

Lieutenant Daniel, 3-5. 

Mrs. Dashwood, 21-2. 

Dora, 104, 125, 204, 208; estimate 

of, 25-6, 118, 225; illness and 
death of, 223-5. 

Frederick (uncle), 68-70, 73, 93 ff, 

223. 

Frederick (cousin), 84. 

family, 83-4. 
Hartmann, Mrs., 321. 
Hartog, Miss Cecile, 171, 180. 
Heidelberg, 7-14; revisited, 124. 
Henschel, Herr Georg, 156-7. 
Herbert of Lea, Lady, 155, 157. 
Hichens, Robert, at Broadway, 314-15 ; 

friendship with, 294, 371 ; The 
Garden of Allah, 372 ; mentioned, 
190, 243, 374 

Holbein's " Dance of Death," 232. 

Holland, Mrs. George, 361. 

Hugo, Victor, 147-9. 

Hungarians, 270. 

Hungary, 288 ff. 

Hutchinson, Mrs., 85, 292. 

Hyde Park Gate South, 92, 204. 

Hyde-Smith, Mrs. Gerald, 127-9. 

Innes. See Rose-Innes. 
Irish not for hell, 222. 



Irving, Sir Henry, 372-3. 
Islande, Mile., 133. 
Italian opera, 77-8, 89. 
Italy, magic of, 190-2, 374-5. 

visit to (1 873), 93. 

James, Henry, 238. 

Jarrett, Miss Louise, 123-4. 

Jews, Austrian prejudice against, 258. 

Polish, 257. 

"Twilight," 126. 
Joachim, 13, 198, 200. 
Jung, Mme., 18. 



Karsten (Swedish singer), 66. 
Kenmare, Lady, 330. 
Kennerley-Rumford, A., 366; 

Epsom concert, 370. 
Krux's Doom, The, 220-2. 



the 



Lalande, Mile., at school under, 40, 
44, 52, 53, 67 ; in the commune, 
95 ; Dr. Munthe's estimate of, 
306-7 ; mentioned, 107, 249. 

Laloy, Louis, quoted, 292. 

Lamperti, 89. 

Langtry, Mrs., 155-6. 

Lapland, 287. 

Layard, Sir Henry, 337. 

Leach, 84-5. 

Lee, Vernon, cited, 32. 

Legge, Lady Frances, 234-6. 

Lehmann, Liza, 31, 238-9, 248, 361-2. 

Leighton, Sir Frederick, 300. 

Leonard, Father, 314-15. 

Leslie, Henry, 165. 

William, 165. 
Leupold, Mme., 79-80. 
Leveson-Gower, George, 161-3. 
Limnerslease, 358. 

Lind, Jenny, 300. 

Letty, 247. 
Lisbon, 207. 

Liszt, Abbe, 269, 271-2. 
Lloyd, Mrs., 331. 

Edward, 145. 

John, 165. 

Lome, Marquis of, 151. 

Lota, 212. 

Louise, Princess, 150-1, 166. 

Lubeck, 232. 

Lucas, Stanley, 145-7, 186, 275. 



380 



INDEX 



Lyttelton, Alfred, 240-1. 

Mrs. Alfred (Edith Balfour), 275 ff, 

332-3- 
- Robert, 234. 

Mrs. Robert (Edith Santley), 226-8, 

234- 

Spencer, 159-65, 236, 295. 
Lytton, Lord, 324. 



Macfarren, Sir George, 139-43, 176, 
1 80, 183, 197. 

Walter, 158. 

Macnamara, Lady Sophia, 150. 
Magellan Straits, 211-12. 
Magellan , voyage on, 206 ff. 
Maitland, Robert, 242-5. 
Mallock's New Republic, 118-19. 
Marret, Mrs. (Fanny White), 88-9, 104. 

Eva, 104. 

Captain James, 38. 
Marshall, Julian, 175. 
Mathilde, Mile., 59, 68-9. 

Princess, 307. 
Matthay, Tobias, 179-80. 

May, Oliver, studies with, 120, 123, 
126; kindness of, 137; reliance 
on, 172; advice from, 264-5; 
mentioned, 136, 183, 225. 

Phil, 370. 

Medicine Man, The, 373. 
Medstiigan, 276, 282. 

' ' Mel." See Stieffel, Frl. Marie. 

Melba, Mme., 357, 359. 

Melville, Mrs. Beresford (Mrs. Spender 

Clay), 328. 

Mendelssohn Scholarship, I7off, iSoff. 
Mentone, 324. 
Messina earthquake, 65. 
Metternich, Princess, 44. 
Milan, General, 27. 
Millais, Sir John, 85-7. 
Millet, Frank, 363-5. 

Mrs. Frank, 365. 
Minard Castle, 331. 
Minsky, N., 244. 
Mocquart, Emilie, 61. 
Morton, Miss, 45, 53. 
Moscow, 352-3. 

Mozart G Minor symphony, 64. 
Munthe, Dr. Axel, in Sweden, 280, 
287 ; Letters from a Mourning 



City translation, 281-2, 304-8 ; 

in Italy, 324-57. 
Murray, John, 307. 
Music : 

Chilian churches, in, 217. 
composition beginnings of, 105-6 ; 

idiosyncrasies in, 121. 
depressing experiences at school, 

36-7 ; under Pauer, 77. 
early appreciation of, 9. 
Hungarian gipsy, 269-72. 
improvisation, 50. 
incidental, difficulties of, 373. 
instrumental, efforts at, 143, 264-5. 
interpretation of, 201. 
Mendelssohn Scholarship, 1 70 ff, 

iSoff. 
pianoforte scholarship examination, 

193. 

Polish mazourka, 273. 
professionals' kindness, 196-7. 
R. A. scholarship examination, 136 ; 

student days, 139 ff. 
" Rondo Scherzando," 158, 164. 
Russian choir, 351-2. 
singing deficiencies, 140. 
voice-tones characteristic of youth, 

202, 355. 

youth-spirit pieces, 64-5. 
Mycene, 344. 

Nagle, Lucy, 2. 

Naples, visit to (1873), 99~ioo ; Letters 

from a Mourning City, 281-2, 

304-8. 

Bay, loo, 210, 326. 
Nauplia, 343. 
Navarro, Mme. (Mme. Navarro 

d'Andrade), 47-9, 58. 
Nelson, Lady, 4-5, 128. 
Nelson, Lord, 3-5. 
Newman, Cardinal, 235; "Lead, 

kindly light," 243-4. 
Nilsson, Mme. Christine, 123-4, 145. 
Nordica, Mme., 248-9. 
Normandy, 72-3. 
Northampton, Lord, 60. 
Norwegian fiords, 211, 278. 

Gates, Captain, 230. 
Ober-Ammergau, 372. 
Orridge, Miss, 147. 



INDEX 



381 



Ostend, 17. 
Ouida, 324. 

Paestum, 326. 
Pain, Barry, 361-2. 
Panshanger, 298-9, 304. 
Papier, Frau Rosa, 265. 
Paris : 

Commune in, 95. 

illness in, 373-4. 

schooldays in, 42 ff. 
Parkfield, 83, 85, 88. 
Parry, Hubert, 157. 
Parsons, Alfred, 103, 366. 
Patshall, 234. 
Pau, 354. 

Pauer, Herr Ernst, 76-7. 
Paul, Lady Dean, 369. 
Pembroke, Lord, 317-19, 322 ; letter 

from, 361. 

Pendeford Hall, 20-2. 
Penn, John, 329. 
Pesth, 269. 
Petersburg, 349 ff. 
Petofi, 245. 
Pinero, 368. 
Pinner, 361. 
Pius ix., Pope, 99, 103. 
Pius x., Pope, 82, 99. 
Poldowski, 369. 
Polish Jews, 257. 
women, 273. 
Pollock, Walter Herries "The Devout 

Lover," 224. 
Pompeii, 99-100. 
Porchester Terrace, 75-6. 
Prajana, 326-7. 

Price, John Maclean, 103, 354. 
Putnam, Clifford, 261. 

Ralph, Mr., 139. 

Ramsay, Mrs., 204. 

Randegger, Signor Alberto, encourage- 
ment from, 104, 105 ; anecdote of, 
1 08; the ' 'Agnus Dei, "173; criticism 
by, of " Absent yet Present," 184 ; 
introduction by, to Santley, 194-6 ; 
mentioned, 112, 129, 131,236,238. 

Raphael's Madonna at Panshanger, 299. 

Rathbone, Mrs. Wm., 121-2. 

Ravello, 326. 

Ravenna, 337. 



Reach, Miss, 32-7. 

Reimers, Miss, 184. 

Reinagle family, 3. 

Rhine river, 7 ; falls, 16-17. 

Ribblesdale, Lady, 246, 308. 

Richter, Hans, 254-5, 261, 264 ; as 

Wagner conductor, 252, 266-7. 
Ridge, Pett, 361. 
Rimsky-Korsakow, 352. 
Rio Janeiro Bay, 209-10; town, 210-1 1. 
Ripon, Marchioness of, 138, 155, 248, 

323, 334- 
Robertson, Jack, 128-9. 

Sir Johnston Forbes, 156. 

Sophie. See Stubbs. 
Robertsons of Brewood, 55. 
Robinson, Dr., 374. 
Rockstro, W. S., 108-9. 

Rodd, Sir Rennell, quoted, 1 68 ; The 

Violet Crown, 210. 
Rolland's life of Michael Angelo, cited, 

254. 

Roman Catholic Church, 3, 25, 26, 81, 
372 ; reception into (1880), 203. 

Rome (1873), 98. 

Ronald, Landon, 361-2. 

Rose-Innes, Mr., kindness of, 55, 89, 
205 ; household of, 74-5 ; musical 
tastes of, 77-8 ; house in Chile, 
212-13 > home voyage, 221 ; illness 
and death of, 234-6 ; legacy from, 
205; mentioned, 91, 113, 125, 
132, 166, 183, 225. 

Mrs., 76. 

George, 206. 

Lizzie. See Santley. 

Michael, 236. 

family, 74-5. 
Ross, Mrs. Janet, 324. 

Rossetti, 331 ; "Mary Magdalene," 189. 

Rostopchine, General, 42. 

Rowe, Miss Nellie, 358. 

Rowton, Lord, 304. 

Rubinstein, 249, 266, 309. 

Ruskin, J., 188. 

Russell, Mr., 344. 

Russia, visit to, 349 ff. 

Rutland, Duchess of, 155. 

Saint-Saen's " Danse Macabre," 233. 
St. Vincent, 207-8. 
Salamis, 342. 



382 



INDEX 



Sandhurst, Lady, 303. 
Sandringham, 167. 
Santiago, 218-19. 

Santley, Lady (Lizzie Rose-Innes), 
236 ; nurse of, 75. 

Mrs., 236. 

Sir Charles, debut with, 56, 1946. ; 

" The Devout Lover," 201-2, 227 ; 
estimate of, as a singer, 89-90 ; 
generous kindness of, 199-200 ; 
friendship with, 202 ; mentioned, 
157, 302. 

Edith. See Lyttelton, Mrs. Robert. 

Michael, 206, 208-9. 
Sardou, Victorien, 338. 
Sargent, John, 368. 
Saxony, King of, 19. 
Schliemann, Dr., 342, 343, 345. 
Schneider, Mile., 44. 

Schon, Frau, 256. 
Schumann, Clara, 200-1. 
Schumann's " Friihlingslied," 64-5. 
Schuster, Frank, 255-6, 323 ; at Casa 

Wolkoff, 334 ff. 
Schwab, Gustav, 8. 
Sedgwick, 187. 
Shelley, "When Passion's Trance," 

226 ff; "Prometheus Unbound," 

228-30. 
Sicily, 32 ; visit to (1890), 338 ff. See 

also Taormina. 
Sierawska, Mile., 67. 
Smith, Anna Maria Cope Wiley, 22-4. 
Sohm, Der, 15-16. 

Frau, 15. 
Solden, 332-3. 
Songs : 

" Absent yet Present," 184-5; sun g 

by Santley, 195 ff. 
"Ave Maria," 301-2. 
"Devout Lover, The," 201-2, 224, 

226-7. 

" Did One but Know," 297. 
German Album, 275 ; New German 

Album, 291, 331. 
Gipsy, 245. 

" Isaotta Blanzesmano," 190-2. 
" Liebe, Liebe," 240-1. 
" My Soul is an Enchanted Boat," 

228-31. 

11 The Throstle," 354. 
" When Passion's Trance," 226 ff. 



Sorento, 327. 

Spanish language, 74-5. 

Spencer, Lady Sarah, 303. 

Lord and Lady, 248. 
Speyer, Lady, 369-70.' 
Spindler, Herr Fritz, 18. 
Squire, Berkeley, 323. 

Stieffel, Herr (der Vater), 7, 12-13. 

Fraulein Marie, 5-14, 20, 24, 28- 

32 ; revisited, 124. 

Stubbs, Mrs. Stanley (Sophie Richard- 
son), 113, 127-32, 134. 

Sullivan, Lady, 280. 

Sir Arthur, 145, 175-9. 

Fred, 280. 

Sutherland, Millicent, Duchess of, 303. 
Sweden, voyage to, 276 ff. ; visit to, 

282 ff. 
Sykes, Sir Tatton, 263. 

Tacora, 92-3. 

Taglioni, Mme., 65-6. 

Talbot, Mrs. Jack, 277. 

Taormina, children's gratitude at, 65 ; 
Ferstels at, 261 ; visit to, in 1890, 
338 ff. ; Watts' picture at, 358-9. 

Taylor, Franklin, 157. 

Taylor-Smith, Bishop, 302. 

Tennant, Sir Charles, 308. 

Laura (Mrs. A. Lyttelton), 240-1. 
Tennyson, Lord, 60-1, 292-3. 

Lionel, 292. 

Terry, Miss Marion, 323. 
Thomas, Ambroise, 44. 

Arthur Goring, 138. 
Thorndyke, Herbert, 354. 
Tijuca, 211. 

Titanic wreck, 364. 

Titian's "Assumption of the Madonna," 

358. 

Tombs, Mr., 159. 
Torquay, 106 ff. 
Trafalgar, battle of, 3-4. 
Tree, Sir H. Beerbohm, 328. 
Trench, Herbert, " Deirdre Wedded," 

283. 

Troubetzkoy, Princess, 66. 
Troy, 344. 

Valparaiso, 203 ff. 

Venice, 95-6 ; revisited, 334 ff. 

Verdi's Requiem, 131. 



INDEX 



383 



Versailles, 67. 

Victoria, Queen, 4. 

Vienna, 255 ff. ; Symphony Concerts, 

266; revisited, 349. 
Von , Fraulein, 61-3. 

Dutschka, Frau, 270. 

Hiigel, Lady Mary, 155, 316, 331. 

Rinagel, 3. 

Zur Miihlen, Raimond, 308-10, 354. 

Waddington, Sydney, 173. 

Wade, Charles, 159, 165, 182. 

Wagner, Richard Die Meister singer, 
252 ff, 359; "Am Stillen Herd," 
64 ; operas in Vienna, 266-7. 

Wakefield, Mary, friendship with, 112- 
13, 147, 160 ; musical ability of, 
112,147-9, 174; "den "of, 187-9; 
the Italian song, 190, 192 ; men- 
tioned, 159, 164, 295, 323, 332. 

family, 147, 187. 

War render, Lady Maud, 369. 

Watts, G. F., 357-9; "Love Trium- 
phant over Death and Time," 358 ; 
Allegorical Woman, 295. 

Way, Miss, 242. 

Webb, Godfrey, 246. 

Weber, 186. 

Wemyss, Earl of, 357. 

Westbury, Lady, 302. 

Westlake, Mr., 139. 



White, Dora (Mrs. ), 21, 88-9, 

92, 206. 

Edmund, 218. 

Mrs. Edmund (Emily White), as 

weekly boarder, 84 ; riding 
accident of, 220 ; musical ability 
of, 225 ; at Albion Street, 238, 250, 
309 ; trip to Vienna, 255 ; in 
Algiers, 305 ; at Carlsbad, 310- 
II ; engagement, 332 ; European 
tour, 336 ff; affection for, 304; 
mentioned, 27, 37, 59, 82, 83, 
104, 107, 166, 204, 233-4, 274, 

321, 359- 

Fred, 133 ; letter from, 271. 

Harry, 19, 32. 

Mrs. Harry, 354. 

Captain John, 2-3, 40-1, 50-1. 

Mrs. John, 51, 54, 106-7, 118 ; at 

Parkfield, 74, 83 ; the Mendels- 
sohn Scholarship, 181 ; illness and 
death of, 204-5. 

Wieniawski, 369. 

Wiesbaden, 123. 

Wilton, 314, 3i6ff. 

Wodehouse, Mrs. Edmund, 167-8. 

Wolseley, Lord, 301-2. 

Worontzoff, Simon, 316-17. 

Wrest, 298. 

Young, Patrick, 220-2. 



Printed by 

MOKRISON & GIBB LIMITED 
Edinburgh 



c k 1 T f lt &* m \ : 41 and 43 Maddox Street, 

" Scholarly, Reg. London." 

_ ' Bond Street, London, W. 

Telephone : 

No. 1883 Mayfair. 4M4 J 9 l6 - 

Mr. Edward Arnold's 
SPRING 

ANNOUNCEMENTS, 1916. 



VERDUN TO THE VOSGES. 

IMPRESSIONS OF THE WAR ON THE FORTRESS 
FRONTIER OF FRANCE. 

By GERALD CAMPBELL, 

SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT OF "THE TIMES" IN THE EAST OF FRANCE. 

With Illustrations and Maps. Demy Svo. IDS. 6d. net. 

At the beginning of September, 1914, Mr. Campbell was 
commissioned by The Times to go to France as its representative 
on the Eastern Frontier, and he made his headquarters at Nancy 
until January, 1915, after which date no correspondents were 
allowed in the zone of the armies, and he retreated to the vantage 
ground of an adjacent neutral state. Mr. Campbell's very 
interesting letters to his paper were highly appreciated by all who 
read them, and he was, moreover, the only English newspaper 
correspondent who has been stationed for any length of time on 
the long length of front between Verdun and Belfort. In this 
volume, after describing his journey through France, and the 
situation as he found it at the date of the battle of the Marne, the 
author details the events immediately succeeding the outbreak of 
war, and goes on to describe the French offensive in Alsace and 
Lorraine, and its abandonment after the check at Morhange. 
There is a particularly interesting account of the attack on the 
Grand Couronne of Nancy, a battle which lasted nearly three 
weeks, and was one of the most important of the whole war, for 
on the result depended the fate of all the other armies further 
north. Among the many illuminating points of view that the 
author has gleaned is the astonishment of the Swiss, and even 
many French people, that we should be so quixotic as to intervene 
in the war because the soil of Belgium has been invaded. 

LONDON : EDWARD ARNOLD, 41 & 43 MADDOX STREET, W. 



2 Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 

YEARS OF CHILDHOOD. 

By SERGE AKSAKOFF. 
Translated from the Russian by J. D. DUFF, 

FELLOW OF TRINITY COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE. 

With Portrait, ics. 6d. net. 

Serge Aksakoff, the author of this autobiography, was born at 
Ufa, in the district of Orenburg, on September 20, 1791. His 
father held some office in the law-court of the town, and his 
grandfather lived in the country as the owner of large estates, to 
which Aksakoff ultimately succeeded. 

His childhood is here described down to the winter of 1799, when 
he went to school at Kazan. From school he proceeded to the 
university of the same city, and left it in 1807, when many of his 
classmates were joining the army to fight against Napoleon. He 
entered the Civil Service in 1808 and served until 1839. He 
married in 1816, and his two sons, Constantine and Ivan, both 
played a conspicuous part in the public life of Russia. He died at 
Moscow on April 30, 1859. 

Aksakoff was always keenly interested in literature, and wrote a 
number of books ; but his reputation, which stands very high in 
Russia, depends mainly upon two volumes of Memoirs, which he 
wrote at the end of his life. The first of these he called "A 
Family History," and the second, which is here translated, "Years 
of Childhood." 

As to the merits of the work, the following description, by 
Mr. Maurice Baring, may be quoted. He is referring, of course, 
to both the volumes of Memoirs. He says : " The story is as 
vivid and interesting as that of any novel, as that of the novels of 
Russian writers of genius, and it has the additional advantage 
of being true. . . . It is impossible to put down the narrative 
after beginning it, and I have heard of children who read it like 
a fairy-tale. . . . One is spellbound by the charm, the dignity, the 
good nature, the gentle, easy accent of the speaker, in whom 
one feels convinced, not only that there was nothing common or 
mean, but to whom nothing was common or mean, who was a 
gentleman by character as well as by lineage, one of God's as well 
as of Russia's nobility." Mr. Baring adds that no book in Russian 
so richly deserves translation into English. 



Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 3 

A PHYSICIAN IN FRANCE. 

By SIR WILMOT HERRINGHAM, C.B., 

PHYSICIAN TO ST. BARTHOLOMEW'S HOSPITAL ; CONSULTING PHYSICIAN 
TO THE FORCES IN FRANCE. 

One Volume. Demy 8vo. IDS. 6d. net. 

How the war, as seen at close quarters, strikes a man eminen 
in another profession than that of arms is the distinguishing 
feature of this volume of personal impressions. It is not, how- 
ever, merely the outcome of a few weeks' sojourn or " trip to the 
trenches," with one eye on an expectant public, for the author 
has twice seen autumn fade into winter on the flat countryside of 
Flanders, and is still at his post rendering invaluable services 
amidst unforgettable scenes. After some introductory pages, the 
book takes the form of letters to friends in England and 
America. The author's comments on the day-to-day happenings 
are distinguished by a tone that is at once manly, reflective, and 
good-humoured. Medical questions are naturally prominent in 
the correspondence, but are dealt with largely in a manner that 
should interest the layman at the present time. Sir Wilmot was 
with Lord Roberts when he died. A very pleasing feature of the 
book is the constant revelation of the author's love of nature and 
sport, and his happy way of introducing such topics, together with 
descriptions of the country around him, makes a welcome contrast 
to the stern events which form the staple material of his letters. 
There are some very amusing stories. 



LOVE, WORSHIP, AND DEATH. 

SOME RENDERINGS FROM THE GREEK ANTHOLOGY. 
By the Right Hon. SIR RENNELL RODD, G.C.M.G., 

AUTHOR OF "THE VIOLET CROWN," "BALLADS OF THE FLEET," ETC. 

Small Crown Svo. 2S. 6d. net. 

The interpretation of these lyrics has been the sole and grateful 
distraction of the British Ambassador at Rome during a period of 
ceaseless work and intense anxiety in the tragic years of 1914 
and 1915. 



4 Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 

A FRENCH MOTHER IN WAR TIME. 

By MADAME E. DRUMONT. 

Translated by Miss G. BEVIR. 
Crown 8vo. Cloth. 35. 6d. net. 

The writer of this frank and simple narrative is the wife of the 
famous anti-Semite, but the young airman son, to whom she is 
devotedly attached, is the child of a first marriage. The volume 
consists of her diary from July, 1914, to August, 1915. This 
anxious French mother makes no attempt to represent herself as 
more heroic than she was or is, and her honesty gives a special 
value to her picture of the central and really fine figure in the 
book that of her son Paul, many of whose letters to her during 
the war are here given. Among other interesting passages in the 
book is a description of the scene at the Paris Cabinet Council, 
when General Gallieni was asked by the Ministry if he would 
defend Paris. 

OUTLINES OF EUROPEAN HISTORY 

(1814-1914) 

By G. BURRELL SMITH, M.A. 
With Maps. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 2s. 6d. 

This well-informed, concise outline of the main current of 
European events can hardly fail to be useful to anyone wanting 
a handy book of reference to accompany the study of the many 
problems of the war associated with the interests of the countries 
concerned. Commencing with the Congress of Vienna in 1815, 
the ground is covered down to the day the crime of Serajevo 
precipitated the present cataclysm. 

THE DAYS OF ALKIBIADES. 

By C. E. ROBINSON, M.A., 

ASSISTANT MASTER AT WINCHESTER COLLEGE. 

With a Foreword by PROFESSOR C. W. OMAN. 
Illustrated. Crown Svo. Cloth. About 55. net. 

This is a series of sketches illustrating Greek life at the time of 
Alkibiades. They are mainly in narrative form, and comprise the 
various sides of public and private life, as, for instance, an Attic 
Farm, the Theatre, the Assembly, the Mysteries, the Market 
Place, Battles by Land and Sea, Olympia, the Great Dionysia, 
Delphi, the Piraeus, Sparta, Education, a Wedding, a Funeral, a 
Dinner Party, Home in Athens, a Trial by Jury, etc. The inten- 
tion is to give a clear picture of the background of Greek literature 
in a manner free from the ordinary associations of a Dictionary of 
Antiquities. The author has travelled in Greece, so that he is 
able to describe the setting of his instructive and entertaining 
sketches at first hand. 



Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 5 

THE MIGRATION OF FISH. 

By ALEXANDER MEEK, M.Sc., 

PROFESSOR OF ZOOLOGY, ARMSTRONG COLLEGE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF DURHAM, AND 
DIRECTOR OF THE DOVE MARINE LABORATORY, CULLERCOATS. 

With numerous Illustrations. Demy Svo. About 155. net. 

A great deal of information relating to the migrations of fish 
has been accumulated, especially during the last twenty years. 
But it is scattered in books and periodicals frequently difficult to 
obtain. The author of this work has aimed at giving a systematic 
account of this knowledge, developing at the same time a theory 
of migrations based on the conduct of the various stages in the 
growth of the fish with respect to currents. The book contains 
descriptions of the spawning habits, the eggs, and the young, the 
usual passive drift to the feeding ground, and of the distribution 
due to migrations of the species and of the schools into which 
they are resolved. The important species and families of food 
fish of the northern hemisphere have received a detailed treatment, 
but practically all families have been considered. The essential 
facts are brought conveniently together in a manner which will 
be welcome to the zoologist and the legislator, to the student and 
to the fisherman. An account of migrations without reference to 
the distribution, past and present, would be incomplete, and it 
will be found that this aspect of the subject has been fully dealt 
with. The geological evidence as to the relationship of land and 
water in the period of the past is, so far as is necessary, presented, 
and has been used as a basis for a critical examination of the 
known facts of distribution. The work is illustrated by numerous 
figures, photographs, maps, and diagrams. 

NEW AND REVISED EDITION. 

FOOD AND THE PRINCIPLES OF 
DIETETICS. 

By ROBERT HUTCHISON, M.D., EDIN., F.R.C.P., 

PHYSICIAN TO THE LONDON HOSPITAL, AND TO THE HOSPITAL FOR SICK CHILDREN, 
GREAT ORMOND STREET, LONDON. 

Fourth Edition. With Illustrations. Demy Svo. i6s. net. 

A new edition of this well-known standard work of reference 
upon a subject of vital importance requires very little introduction 
to the medical profession. It may, however, be reiterated that, 
while the book has been specially designed to meet the require- 
ments of students and practitioners of medicine, it has also been 
found useful and intelligible to many of the general public who 
are interested in the problems of nutrition and food values. The 
Spectator has said that : " Our readers will find this most sugges- 
tive book not only intensely interesting but amusing. A man of 
forty who reads it and still goes on his way unheeding deserves 
to be called something uncomplimentary." 



6 Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 

RECENT BOOKS ON THE WAR. 

A SURGEON IN KHAKI. 

By A. A. MARTIN, M.D., F.R.C.S. ENG. 
Third Impression. With Illustrations. IDS. 6d. net. 

" A superlatively interesting book." Graphic. 

" A book full of life and human feeling. * A Surgeon in 
Khaki ' will certainly live as a first-class description of a portion 
of the great war." Field. 

"A book of extraordinary interest. There are many stories, 
grave and gay, in this book, which should be widely read. It is 
quite a remarkable book and gives a wonderful vision of what 
war is." Birmingham Daily Post. 

WITH OUR ARMY IN FLANDERS. 

By G. VALENTINE WILLIAMS. 
Second Impression. Illustrated. 125. 6d. net. 

" Mr. Williams has written an excellent book, one of the most 
vivid and informing accounts that have yet been produced of our 
men in the field. Like all good correspondents, he has an eye for 
significant detail. His knowledge of Germany helps him to many 
instructive comparisons. He is the master of an easy, vigorous 
style, which occasionally reaches real eloquence. Above all, he 
has a great gift of enthusiasm. The book is written in a fine 
spirit, not captious, or egotistical, or flamboyant, but honest and 
understanding." Spectator. 

" This book is no mere compilation of the day-to-day dispatches 
from Mr. Williams, but a complete study of the army at work and 
at play, touched by many a scene of pathos, enlivened by many a 
page of vivacious anecdote, and marked throughout by keen study 
of all the phases and problems of the war." Daily Mail. 

THE CAPTURE OF DE WET. 

INCLUDING A SHORT ACCOUNT OF THE CONQUEST OF 
GERMAN SOUTH-WEST AFRICA. 

By P. J. SAMPSON. 
Illustrated, ics. 6d. net. 

11 1 have perused the work with interest, and must congratulate you on 
the accurate, impartial, and comprehensive manner in which you have dealt 
with a much-to-be-regretted episode in the history of South Africa."- 
From GENERAL BOTHA'S letter to the author. 

" What he unfolds is a drama we might almost call it an epic 
of South Africa in action, in which the principal figures stand 
out boldly and the principal events happen again before our 
eyes." Morning Post. 



Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 7 

THE LATEST BOOKS OF REMINISCENCES. 

THIRTY-FIVE YEARS IN THE 
NEW FOREST. 

By the Hon. GERALD LASCELLES. 
With Illustrations. Demy Svo. 125. 6d. net. 

"The charm of the book arises from the fact that the author 
has been in complete accord with his environment and the wood- 
land spirit, which he expresses happily throughout the book, 
together with an energetic and observant individuality, and a 
whole-hearted love of outdoor life." Morning Post. 

" A delightful blend of sport, forestry, and tradition." Saturday 
Review. 

"A book for the readers of Country Life. They are sure to 
delight in it." Country Life. 

THIRTY YEARS A BOXING 
REFEREE. 

By EUGENE GORKI. 
Illustrated. Demy Svo. IDS. 6d. net. 

" A genuine treat for all lovers of boxing." Referee. 

" This breezy book on boxing is just characteristic of the 
author. It is a great cheery volume to the end." Morning Post. 

FROTH AND BUBBLE. 

By MONTY HARBORD. 
Illustrated. IDS. 6d. net. 

" As full of incident and adventure as 'Monte Cristo.' Whether 
ranching in Montana, or fighting in South Africa, or fighting against 
nature in British East Africa, we always have the feeling that we 
are getting nothing but the truth." Evening Standard. 

"A book more full of the joy of a roaming life and of the 
delight of conflict there could not be than ' Froth and Bubble.' " 
Westminster Gazette. 

" Altogether a capital work of its kind." Liverpool Daily Post. 



8 Mr. Edward Arnold's Spring Announcements. 

GOD AND FREEDOM IN HUMAN 

EXPERIENCE. 
H StuoB of Degrees of iRealtts- 

By the Right Rev. CHARLES F. D'ARCY, 0.D., 

BISHOP OF DOWN. 

One Volume. Svo. IDS. 6d. net. 

" It was time that we should have a new apologetic, incorporat- 
ing, among other things, the fresh contributions which have been 
made to thought by Bergson. The Bishop of Down has set 
himself to supply this need. . . . He has produced what is for the 
present the best available statement of Christian Theism. "- 
Church Times. 

" A remarkably stimulating book." Guardian. 

11 Bishop D'Arcy is by far the ablest writer upon philosophic 
subjects in Ireland to-day." Saturday Review. 

NIETZSCHE AND THE IDEALS OF 
MODERN GERMANY. 

By HERBERT LESLIE STEWART, M.A., D.PH., 

PROFESSOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY, HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA. 
AUTHOR OF " QUESTIONS OF THE DAY IN PHILOSOPHY AND PSYCHOLOGY." 

One Volume. Demy Svo. Cloth. 75. 6d. net. 

LORD CROMER in the Spectator. " Professor Stewart has done 
a real service alike to the thinker, the practical politician, and 
the general reader, by giving them a brief but singularly lucid 
sketch of Nietzsche's philosophy, and by exposing the fallacies of 
his reasoning." 

" Professor Stewart's book has a value that is independent of 
current events. It is certainly one of the best statements of the 
case against Nietzsche that has been made in an English book." 
Daily News. 

MODERN ESSAYS 

REPRINTED FROM LEADING ARTICLES IN "THE TIMES." 

With an Introduction by DR. J. W. MACKAIL, F.R.S.L. 

Crown Svo. Cloth. 55. net. 

"We have found them ideal reading for those odd moments 
when the brain is flagging, but not fatigued. When rest is to be 
found in thought, not in thoughtlessness." Glasgow Herald. 

" We get here touches of real wit, real imagination, real 
thought, and always there is style." New Statesman. 

LONDON : EDWARD ARNOLD, 41 & 43 MADDOX STREET, W. 



?* 



ONI AKIO 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SUPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



ML 

410 

W64 



White, Maude Valerie 
Friends and memories 



Music 



