\ 


^v 


/.  1 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 
in  2013 


http://archive.org/details/irishbeautyofregOOcalv 


AN    IRISH    BEAUTY 
OF   THE    REGENCY 


BY  THE  SAME  AUTHOR 

MEMOIRS   OF  A   VANISHED 

GENERATION 

Illustrated.     Demy  8vo 


PRESS  OPINIONS 

Pall  Mall  Gazette.  —  "  Entertaining 
reading.  ..." 

Spectator.  —  "There  is  an  atmosphere  of 
old-fashioned  goodness  and  kindness,  high 
morality,  warm  affection,  all  kept  fresh, 
gay,  and  healthy  by  a  keen  sense  of  the 
absurd,  which  makes  the  book  a  charming 
contrast  indeed  to  some  family  chronicles, 
French  and  English,  one  could  name." 

Daily  Telegraph.  —  "Mrs.  Warrenne 
Blake  has  connected  the  letters  with  a 
pleasant  narrative,  and  her  work  should 
prove  highly  popular  with  all  readers." 

Daily  Chronicle. — "Well  worth  atten- 
tion." 

Daily  Graphic. — "Always  interesting." 

World.— "Delightful." 


TO 

ETHEL  MARY  RICHARDSON 

GREAT-GRANDDAUGHTER  OF  THE  "  IRISH  BEAUTY 

IN   WARM   APPRECIATION   OF  HER 

UNTIRING    HELP 


PREFACE 

MY  first  and  only  interview  with  Mrs.  Calvert 
took  place  at  her  house  in  Cavendish  Square 
more  than  half  a  century  ago.  It  was 
characterized,  as  far  as  I  can  remember, 
by  awestruck  shyness  on  my  part,  and  on  hers  by  the 
placid  indifference  with  which  the  very  old  are  apt  to 
regard  the  very  young,  whose  future  can  in  no  way  con- 
cern them.  Neither  I  nor  the  frail,  white-haired  old  lady 
sitting  in  her  arm-chair  had  the  least  idea  that  I  should 
ever  have  the  privilege  of  editing  those  famous  journals 
written  for  her  "  beloved  children,"  and  kept  under  lock 
and  key  for  over  forty  years  at  Furneaux  Pelham  Hall, 
the  old  manor-house  which  the  Calvert  family  have 
owned  for  at  least  two  centuries. 

Mrs.  Calvert  at  ninety  years  old  was  almost  blind, 
and,  like  the  majority  of  very  aged  people,  had  survived 
most  of  those  she  loved  best — indeed,  she  sometimes 
complained  that  Death  had  forgotten  her.  Her  memory 
was  good,  and  stored  with  interesting  events.  A  wonder- 
ful link  between  past  and  present,  those  dim  eyes  of  hers 
had  wept  over  the  murder  of  Louis  XVI,  and  the  death 
of  Nelson,  and  her  trembling  fingers  had  clasped  those 
of  many  a  bygone  celebrity  and  hero.  In  1814  she  took 
part  in  the  splendid  festivities  given  in  honour  of  the 
Allied  Sovereigns,  when  all  London — rather  prematurely 

a  2  ix 


x  PREFACE 

as  it  turned  out — went  mad  with  joy  over  the  downfall 
of  the  tyrant  Bonaparte.  And  after  the  battle  of 
Waterloo  she  lay  awake  in  an  agony  of  never-to- 
be-forgotten  anxiety,  wondering  if  her  dear  son  Felix 
were  alive  or  dead. 

She  was  on  visiting  terms  with  the  beautiful  Duchess 
of  Devonshire,  immortalized  by  Gainsborough,  with 
troublesome,  clever  Lady  Caroline  Lamb,  and  her 
husband,  afterwards  Lord  Melbourne,  and  the  great 
Duke  of  Wellington  was  her  friend  and  kinsman.  She 
knew  the  Prince  Regent  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  well,  and 
in  days  when  the  relations  between  Court  and  Society 
were  of  a  simple  and  friendly  description,  she  had  been 
honoured  by  the  kindly  notice  of  Queen  Charlotte,  and  of 
the  six  blooming  Princesses  of  whom  Hoppner  has  left  us 
such  delightful  portraits. 

Mrs.  Calvert  remembered,  as  a  time  of  rioting  and  up- 
roar, Sir  Francis  Burdett's  being  taken  to  the  Tower  of 
London,  and  the  mob  shouting  "Bread  or  Blood,"  and 
breaking  doors  and  windows  in  frantic  opposition  to  the 
Corn  Laws.  Not  having,  as  she  says,  "  a  musical  soul," 
the  singing  of  Catalani  and  contemporary  artistes  left 
her  cold,  but  she  was  deeply  moved  by  the  pathos  of 
Mrs.  Siddons  and  the  marvellous  acting  of  Kean,  Macready, 
and  the  Kembles. 

In  her  journals  she  unconsciously  reveals  her  many- 
sided  character.  We  see  her  by  turns  as  the  brilliant 
beauty  going  joyously  to  Court  in  purple  and  fine  linen, 
as  the  devoted  wife  and  tender  mother,  distracted  with 
anxiety  if  anything  ailed  her  children,  as  the  keen  poli- 
tician ;  then  again,  as  the  good  and  conscientious  woman, 


PREFACE  xi 

severe  on  her  occasional  sins  of  infirmity  to  a  degree 
that  almost  seems  to  us  morbid  and  exaggerated.  We 
cannot  help  admiring  a  character  so  fine  and  upright 
and  sincere,  or  congratulating  her  numerous  descendants 
on  an  ancestress  of  whom  they  may  be  so  justly  proud. 

A  book  of  this  sort  necessarily  partakes  somewhat 
of  the  nature  of  what  our  Transatlantic  neighbours  call 
a  Friendship  quilt.  Many  are  the  kind  helpers  who  have 
supplied  me  with  interesting  bits  of  information,  without 
which  the  book  would  have  been  far  from  complete,  and 
family  portraits  which  add  much  to  whatever  charm  it 
may  possess.  Most  of  all  are  my  thanks  due  to  Mrs. 
Arthur  Richardson,  at  whose  suggestion  I  undertook 
what  has  been  an  arduous,  though  a  most  delightful  task. 
I  much  regret  that  I  cannot  here  express  my  gratitude 
to  the  late  Mr.  Felix  Calvert,  who  was  kind  enough  to 
entrust  me  with  the  journals  ;  I  can  only  hope  that 
Captain  Walter  Calvert,  their  present  owner,  will  accept 
my  thanks  instead.  I  would  wish  also  to  offer  my  respect- 
ful acknowledgments  to  Their  Royal  Highnesses  Prince 
and  Princess  Christian  for  identifying  the  portrait  of  the 
Duke  of  Schleswig-Holstein,  and  for  other  information 
which  has  been  of  great  service  to  me. 

For  their  kindness  in  allowing  me  to  reproduce  valuable 
old  family  pictures  and  miniatures,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Earl 
and  Countess  of  Darnley  and  Lady  Kathleen  Brownlow  ; 
also  the  Countess  of  Antrim,  the  Earl  and  Countess  of 
Ranfurly,  Lady  Constance  Leslie,  Sir  James  Stronge, 
Lord  and  Lady  Rathdonnell,  Mrs.  Raymond  Nugent, 
Miss  Magdalen  Ker,  Miss  Emily  Knox,  Miss  Ormsby, 
Mrs.   Montgomery,   the   Reverend   Francis   Warre,   Mr. 


xii  PREFACE 

Arthur  Dasent,  Mr.  Percy  Noverre,  and  Mr.  John  Lane. 
I  have  also  had  much  kind  assistance  from  Lady  St.  Helier, 
Mrs.  Hamilton  Cox,  Miss  Clara  Wigram,  Count  Conrad 
Zeppelin,  Mr.  Arthur  Knox,  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Hewitt, 
Mr.  G.  Milner  Gibson  Cullum,  Mr.  James  St.  Leger,  and 
Mr.  Beresford  Chancellor,  to  all  of  whom  I  feel  sincerely 
grateful  for  the  sympathy  and  interest  which  have  been 
so  great  a  help. 

ALICE    E.    BLAKE. 

Easton  Vicarage,  Norwich. 


CONTENTS 


CHAPTER    I 

PAGE 

The  Hon.  Frances  Pery — Her  birth  and  parentage — Her  marriage 
to  Nicolson  Calvert  of  Hunsdon — London  gaieties — "  God 
save  the  King  " — The  French  Revolution — Birth  of  Felix 
Calvert — Marriage  of  the  Duke  of  York — The  Prince  of  Wales 
and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert — Lord  Howe's  great  victory — George  III 
at  Windsor — An  unhappy  Royal  marriage — Lady  Jersey — 
The  Irish  Rebellion — Wedding  of  the  Princess  Royal — Mrs. 
Calvert  at  Brighton  Pavilion — Loss  of  the  Babet — The  King's 
insanity — Mr.  Calvert  in  Parliament — Fears  of  invasion — 
Murder  of  the  Due  d'Enghien — Description  of  Mrs.  Fitzherbert 
— Her  adopted  child,  Mary  Seymour    .....         3 

CHAPTER    II 

Mrs.  Calvert  at  Hunsdon — Inoculation — England  at  war — Sir 
John  Sebright — Lord  and  Lady  Boringdon — A  divorce  in  high 
life — Mrs.  Devis  of  Devonshire  Place — The  Duke  of  Welling- 
ton's mother — Mary  Seymour  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert — Bona- 
parte's coronation — Mrs.  Calvert  in  Albemarle  Street       .         .       19 

CHAPTER    III 

Lord  Limerick — Death  of  Mr.  Lamb  —  Princess  Charlotte's 
governess — A  dinner  at  Grillon's — Lucky  at  cards — Lady 
Almeria  Carpenter — Mrs.  Calvert  at  Court — A  latter-day 
prophet — Death  of  Lady  Maria  Micklethwaite — Chapel  Royal 
— A  Scotch  party — Lord  Melville's  impeachment — Installation 
at  Windsor — Lady  Derby — Lady  Caroline  Lamb — A  ball  at 
Hatfield — Bad  news  from  India — Country  neighbours      .         .       28 

CHAPTER  IV 
The  battle  of  Trafalgar — Death  of  Nelson — An  unwelcome  visit 
— Felix  and  Isabella — A  penitent  letter — Wars  and  rumours  of 
wars — Lord  Nelson's  funeral — Death  of  Mr.  Pitt — Lord  Pery 
— His  funeral  at  Pelham — A  beautiful  duchess — Sir  Arthur 
Wellesley's  engagement — Lady  Lansdowne's  masquerade       .       53 


xiv  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER    V 

PAGE 

Esther  Acklom — Catalani — Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  and  his  wife — 
Felix  Calvert  is  confirmed — An  all  night  sitting — A  practical 
joke — Lord  Cochrane — Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  assembly — A  lover 
and  his  mistress — Marlborough  House — The  Prince  of  Wales 
and  Lady  Hertford — The  Pavilion  once  more  ....       70 

CHAPTER  VI 
Mrs.  Calvert's  Journal  continued — Pavilion  gaieties — Firle  Place 
— Siege  of  Copenhagen — A  visit  to  Paine's  Hill — Bonaparte 
and  Josephine — Felix  enters  the  Army — Sir  John  Moore — 
Brighton  gossip — A  sad  parting —  Une  femme  de  quarante  ans — 
Death  of  Lord  Thomond — Miss  Hope  Vere — A  brilliant  soldier       82 

CHAPTER  VII 
Princess  Amelia  and  the  measles — Lady  Caroline  Lamb— Mil- 
bourne  House,  Hamilton  Place — Felix  is  ordered  off — Carac- 
tacus — Death  of  Mrs.  Forde — Lady  Sarah  Spencer — The 
Princess  of  Wales — Engagement  of  Lord  Tavistock — The 
Smiths  of  Parndon — Good  News  from  Spain — Mary  Felicia  is 
born — Le  Malade  Imaginaire — Felix  in  Spain — Burning  of 
Covent  Garden  Theatre  . 95 

CHAPTER    VIII 

Invalids  at  Madeira — Country  visits — A  famous  brewer  and 
politician — Affairs  in  Spain — Mrs.  Calvert's  anxiety — Death  of 
Sir  John  Moore — Good  news  at  last — Return  of  the  troops — A 
happy  meeting — The  Duke  of  York  and  Mrs.  Clarke — Burning 
of  Drury  Lane  Theatre — Sir  David  Baird — Sydney  Smith     .     114 

CHAPTER  IX 
Influenza — Sir  David  Dundas — Vapour  baths — Revolution  in 
Sweden — Bishop  Porteous'  last  confirmation — Lady  Sarah 
Napier  and  her  son — Mrs.  Calvert  on  her  travels — Lord 
Cochrane  and  the  Varsovie — Isabella's  first  ball — The  Euro- 
pean Museum — Taking  of  Oporto — Lady  Wellesley's  anxiety 
— A  false  report — A  famous  victory — Haileybury  School — 
The  beautiful  Lady  Haggerston 128 

CHAPTER  X 
The  Walcheren  Expedition  and  its  result — A  ball  at  Hatfield 
House — Arrival  of  Felix — Lord  Castlereagh  and  Mr.  Canning 
fight  a  duel — Riots  at  Covent  Garden — Professor  Malthus — 
A  visit  to  Ramsgate — Jubilee  of  George  III — Lord  Cranley 
as  a  poet — The  fair  Francesca — A  Royal  divorce     .         .         .140 


CONTENTS  xv 

CHAPTER    XI 

PAGE 

Twelfth  Night — Lady  Keith — Isabella  goes  to  Court — Disap- 
pearance of  the  Hon.  William  Eden — His  body  found  in  the 
Thames — Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone — A  change  of  houses — 
Capture  of  Guadaloupe — Sir  Francis  Burdett  is  taken  to  the 
Tower — Terrible  riots  in  London — Marriage  of  Lord  Ely — 
Felix  Calvert  is  given  a  staff  appointment — A  Venetian  break- 
fast— Attempted  murder  of  the  Duke  of  Cumberland — Release 
of  Sir  Francis  Burdett     .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .151 

CHAPTER    XII 

Vauxhall  Gardens — Sir  James  Stronge — Isabella's  engagement — 
Marriage  at  St.  George's,  Hanover  Square — Death  of  Princess 
Amelia — Hopeless  insanity  of  the  King — The  Prince  is  ap- 
pointed Regent — "  Old  Q." — Miss  Pole  and  Lord  Burghersh 
— Battle  of  Barrosa 164 

CHAPTER  XIII 
Hunsdon  House — The  Roman  bath — Once  a  nursery  for  the  Royal 
children — Baron  Hunsdon' s  death — Arrival  of  Lady  Stronge 
— London  goes  mad  on  waltzing — Sudden  death  of  Lord  Mel- 
ville— Esther  Acklom  again — The  Prince  Regent  gives  a  ball 
— The  Siege  of  Badajoz — Proposed  marriage  of  the  Duke  of 
Clarence 174 

CHAPTER    XIV 

Love  affairs  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence — Birth  of  James  Stronge — 
Miss  Acklom's  engagement  broken  off — Blind  Man's  Buff  at 
Woburn  Abbey — Felix  Calvert  arrives — Ciudad  Rodrigo  is 
taken — Murder  of  Mr.  Perceval — Lady  Georgiana  Cecil  and 
the  Berkeley  peerage — Dissolution  of  Parliament  expected — 
Lord  Cranborne  defeated — Country  visits — The  siege  of  Burgos 
— John  Knox  is  wounded — Death  of  Mr.  Acklom  .         .         .181 

CHAPTER  XV 
Princess  Charlotte  and  her  governess — Councillor  Ego — Mrs. 
Calvert  goes  to  Court — The  Regent's  ball — Sir  Thomas  Gra- 
ham— A  Princess  with  a  grievance — Appeal  to  the  House  of 
Commons — Her  Royal  Highness  is  acquitted — Mrs.  Siddons 
— Marriage  of  Edmond  Knox  to  Miss  Hope  Vere — Battle  of 
Vittoria — Countess  Lieven  at  the  Pavilion — The  Prince  of 
Orange — Joseph  Bonaparte's  sword — Strawberry  Hill    .         .193 


xvi  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER    XVI 

PAGE 

Siege  of  St.  Sebastian — Hon.  William  Pery  killed  in  action — 
Madame  de  Stael — Defeat  of  Bonaparte — Insurrection  in 
Holland — The  great  fog  of  1814 — Theatricals  at  Brighton — 
A  perilous  journey — Lord  Althorp  and  Miss  Acklom — Ed- 
mond  Knox  escorts  the  Due  de  Berri  back  to  France — Bona- 
parte is  sent  to  Elba — Louis  XVIII  returns  to  Paris        .         .     208 

CHAPTER    XVII 

Foreign  politics — Unpopularity  of  the  Regent — Proposed  mar- 
riage of  Princess  Charlotte — Mrs.  Fitzherbert  still  beautiful — 
A  crowded  Drawing-room — Death  of  Josephine — An  injured 
woman — Princess  Charlotte  shows  her  spirit — The  gallant 
Bliicher — Trial  of  Lord  Cochrane — Splendid  fete  at  White's — 
Lord  Cochrane's  terrible  sentence — Thanksgiving  Day — 
Carlton  House  in  its  glory — Ovation  to  the  Duke  of  Wellington 
— London  festivities .222 

CHAPTER    XVIII 

War  with  America — Battle  of  Bladensburg — General  Ross  is 
killed — Lady  Hertford  at  the  Pavilion — The  Regent  plays 
Patience — Marriage  of  Lord  Byron — Disturbance  on  account 
of  the  Corn  Laws — Riots  in  Berkeley  Square — Defeat  at  New 
Orleans — James  Knox  is  wounded — Return  of  Bonaparte 
from  Elba — The  Hundred  Days — Lady  Althorp — Poodle  Byng 
— The  Abbe  Sicard — Coke  of  Norfolk — Princess  Amelia  and 
General  Fitzroy 237 

CHAPTER    XIX 

Miss  O'Neil  as  Mrs.  Haller — The  Battle  of  Waterloo — Bonaparte 
abdicates — Good  news  at  last — A  graphic  account  of  the 
actions — Louis  XVIII  in  Paris — Miss  Kitty  Stephens  in  the 
Beggar's  Opera — Sir  Peregrine  Maitland — Queen  Charlotte  at 
Brighton — Escape  of  Lavallette — Agricultural  distress — 
Marriage  of  Princess  Charlotte — Frances  Calvert     .         .         .     249 

CHAPTER    XX 

A  Leve'e  and  a  Drawing-room — "An  antiquated  couple" — 
Princess  Charlotte  at  Camelford  House — The  Argyle  Rooms 
in  18 16 — The  Ladies  of  Llangollen — A  visit  to  Tynan  Abbey — 
Colonel  and  Mrs.  Brownlow — Lord  Harewood — An  unex- 
pected legacy — A  broken  heart — Unpopularity  of  the  Regent 
— Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone's  engagement       ....     264 


CONTENTS  xvii 

CHAPTER   XXI 

PAGE 

Mrs.  Calvert  on  her  travels — Youth  and  crabbed  age — Contra- 
band goods — Arrival  at  Brussels — La  Belle  et  la  Jolie — A 
group  of  regicides — Bonaparte  at  Laeken — Lady  Clancarty 
at  the  Embassy — A  visit  to  Antwerp — Mrs.  Calvert  at  Waterloo 
— Jane  Shore — A  journey  to  Spa — The  smells  of  Cologne — 
Sight-seeing — Napoleon  as  a  landscape  gardener     .         .         .     273 


CHAPTER    XXII 

Heidelberg  and  its  Castle — Baden-Baden — The  Grand  Duchess 
Stephanie — Count  Rostopchin  and  the  burning  of  Moscow — 
A  visit  to  the  Queen  of  Wurtemberg — Switzerland — Comtesse 
Liederkerke — A  duel  and  its  tragic  ending — Geneva — Prince 
Paul  of  Mecklenburg-Schwerin  —  Death  of  Madame  de 
Stael — Mrs.  Calvert  ascends  Montanvert — Journey  to  Paris 
— Fontainebleau — Lady  Elizabeth  Stuart — Mrs.  Calvert  is 
anxious — Presentation  at  Court — Sight-seeing        .         .         .283 


CHAPTER    XXIII 

A  ball  at  the  Embassy — Frederick  William  III — The  Due  and 
Duchesse  de  Berri — Neuilly  and  Malmaison — Environs  of 
Paris — The  fete  of  the  Rosiere — Departure  for  Holland — 
Broek  and  Saardam — Leyden  and  its  organ — Home  at  last — 
Mrs.  Calvert's  village  school — Macready  and  Liston — Death 
of  Princess  Charlotte — National  sorrow — Marriage  of  Prin- 
cess Elizabeth — The  Duke  of  Devonshire  and  Sir  Richard 
Croft — Lady  Althorp — Disappearance  of  Lord  Charles 
Murray — The  Dandy-killer — Strange  discovery  at  the  Cape — 
A  very  young  couple 300 


CHAPTER    XXIV 

Lord  Weymouth  and  Fanny  Calvert — Engagement  of  the  Duke 
of  Clarence — Sir  Humphry  Davy — Lady  Anson's  ball — The 
Duke  of  Holstein  and  his  suite — Illness  and  death  of  Lady 
Althorp — Birth  of  Mary  Knox — Death  of  Queen  Charlotte — 
A  lady's  maid's  letters — The  Pavilion  again — Burglars  at 
Hunsdon — Princess  Victoria  is  born — The  Persian  Ambassador 
— Mr.  Brand  becomes  Lord  Dacre — The  Bury  fair — The 
Duchesse  de  San  Carlos'  ball — A  menacing  mob    .         .         .316 


xviii  CONTENTS 

CHAPTER    XXV 

PAGE 

House-hunting — Death  of  the  Duke  of  Kent  and  of  George  III — 
Proclamation  of  George  IV — The  Duke  de  Berri's  assassination 
— Cato  Street  conspiracy — Flesh-coloured  stockings — Birth 
of  Thomas  Edmond  Knox  —  The  Duke  of  Holstein  in 
England — Exeter  Change — Queen  Caroline — Alderman  Wood 
— George  IV's  first  Drawing-room — A  mutiny  and  a  riot — 
William  Wilberforce — Hatfield  House — The  fair  at  Hert- 
ford :  a  charity  bazaar — Queen  Caroline's  trial — Coke  of 
Norfolk — Lady  Conyngham  at  the  Pavilion — Death  of  Lady 
Pery — Coronation  Day — Death  of  Queen  Caroline — John 
Knox  is  married — Mrs.  Calvert  at  Bath — Marriage  of  Mr.  Coke 
and  Lady  Anne  Keppel — The  Primate  of  Ireland — Tynan 
Abbey — A  typical  Irishwoman       .         .         .         .         .         •     337 


APPENDIX 

I.     Testament  of  Louis  XVI         ......     369 

II.     Letter   from    William    Gerard    Hamilton    to    Edmond 

Sexten  Pery         ........     374 

Index 381 


ILLUSTRATIONS 


Frontispiece 

FACING   PAGE 

6 


Hon.  Mrs.  Calvert  (Photogravure) 

From  a  miniature  belonging  to  Miss  Magdalen  Ker. 

Hon.  Frances  Pery  (Mrs.  Calvert) 

From  a  miniature  by  Hone  belonging  to  tbe  Rev.  Francis  Warre. 

Nicolson  Calvert,  M.P.  .  .  ...        8 

From  a  picture  at  Furneaux  Pelham. 

The  Opera  Fan,  1800     .  .  .  ...       12 

By  kind  permission  of  the  Countess  of  Antrim. 

General  the  Hon.  John  Knox.     d.  1800  .  .  .        .       14 

From  a  miniature  belonging  to  Mrs.  Warrenne  Blake. 

Hon.  Anne  Vesey,  Viscountess  Northland,     d.  1803       .        .       16 

By  kind  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

Hunsdon  House  .  .  .  ...      20 

From  a  photograph  by  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Hewitt. 

Hon.  Mrs.  George  Knox.     d.  1811  .  .  30 

From  a  miniature  belonging  to  Miss  Emily  Knox. 

Diana  Jane  Pery,  ist  Countess  of  Ranfurly        .  32 

From  a  picture  at  Dungannon  Park. 

Viscount  Pery  .  .  .  ...      60 

By  kind  permission  of  Miss  Florence  Knox. 

Mary  Seymour  (Hon.  Mrs.  Dawson  Damer)  .  80 

From  a  miniature  by  Isabey.     By  kind  permission  of  Lady  Constance  Leslie. 

Louisa  Brunton  (Countess  of  Craven)    .  .  82 

From  a  miniature  belonging  to  Mr.  Percy  Noverre. 

Mrs.  Forde  of  Seaforde  .  .  ...     100 

From  a  miniature  belonging  to  Mrs.  Raymond  Nugent. 

Mrs.  Mary  Anne  Clarke  .  .  ...     124 

xix 


xx  ILLUSTRATIONS 

FACING   PAGE 

John,  4TH  Earl  of  Darnley        .  .  . 

From  a  painting  by  Gainsborough. 

Elizabeth  Brownlow,  4TH  Countess  of  Darnley 

From  a  picture  by  Hoppner.     By  kind  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Darnley. 


Lady  Olivia  Sparrow    ..... 

From  a  painting  by  Biickner.    By  kind  permission  of  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Hewitt. 

Sir  James  Stronge,  Bart.  .  .  . 

Isabella,  Lady  Stronge  .  . 

From  a  bust  by  Bertolini.     By  kind  permission  of  Sir  James  Stronge,  Bart 

Thomas  Knox,  2nd  Earl  of  Ranfurly  . 

From  a  miniature.     By  kind  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

Cobham  Hall,  Kent       ..... 
Lady  Robinson  ..... 

From  a  miniature.     By  kind  permission  of  Mrs.  Montgomery. 


148 

150 
162 


164 
168 

178 

188 

242 


Mrs.  Thomas  Knox  (afterwards  2nd  Countess  of  Ranfurly)    246 

By  kind  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

The  Ladies  of  Llangollen  .  .  ...     266 

From  the  collection  of  the  Countess  of  Bessborough. 

Queen  of  Wurtemberg  (Princess  Royal  of  England)    .        .     288 
H.S.H.  Prince  Paul  of  Mrcklenburg-Schwerin,  1817     .        .     292 

From  a  picture  by  Massot.     By  kind  permission  of  Lord  Rathdonnell. 

The  Rt.  Rev.  Henry  Bathurst,  Bishop  of  Norwich       .        .     306 
Hon.  Mrs.  William  Knox  .  .  ...     309 

From  a  miniature.     By  kind  permission  of  Miss  Ormsby. 

H.S.H.  the  Duke  of  Schleswig-Holstein,  1817     .  .        .     318 

By  kind  permission  of  Lord  Rathdonnell.     From  a  painting  by  Massot. 

Thomas  Knox,  Viscount  Northland,  1 729-1818     .  .        .     322 

From  a  picture  by  Hickey.     By  kind  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

Marchioness  Conyngham  .  .  ...     350 

From  a  miniature  by  Singry  (about  1825-1830)  in  the  Wallace  Collection. 


Viscountess  Pery 


352 


General  Felix  Calvert  .  .  ...     356 

From  a  picture  by  Massot.     By  kind  permission  of  Sir  James  Stronge,  Bart. 


AN    IRISH    BEAUTY 
OF   THE    REGENCY 


AN  IRISH  BEAUTY 
OF  THE  REGENCY 


CHAPTER   I 

The  Hon.  Frances  Pery — Her  birth  and  parentage — Her  marriage 
to  Nicolson  Calvert  of  Hunsdon — London  gaieties — "  God 
save  the  King  " — The  French  Revolution — Birth  of  Felix 
Calvert — Marriage  of  the  Duke  of  York — The  Prince  of 
Wales  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert — Lord  Howe's  great  victory — 
George  III  at  Windsor — An  unhappy  Royal  marriage — Lady 
Jersey — The  Irish  rebellion — Wedding  of  the  Princess  Royal 
— Mrs.  Calvert  at  Brighton  Pavilion — Loss  of  the  Babet — 
The  King's  insanity — Mr.  Calvert  in  Parliament — Fears  of 
Invasion — Murder  of  the  Due  d'Enghien — Description  of  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert — Her  adopted  child,  Mary  Seymour. 

THE  Hon.  Frances  Pery  was  born  in  Sackville 
Street,  Dublin,  on  February  4th,  1767,  three 
years  after  the  birth  of  her  elder  sister,  Diana 
Jane.  Although  destined  to  spend  so  large 
a  part  of  her  life  in  this  country,  she  had  probably  not 
a  drop  of  English  blood  in  her  veins.  Her  father,  Edmond 
Sexten  Pery,  hailed  from  Co.  Limerick,  and  possessed 
a  considerable  amount  of  property  there.  A  man  of 
great  power  and  unquestioned  integrity,  he  was  Speaker 
of  the  Irish  House  of  Commons,  and  on  resigning  that 
office  he  was  created  a  Viscount,  and  granted  a  pension 
of  £3000  a  year.    Lord  Pery  had  married  in  1762  the  Hon. 

3 


4       AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1789 

Mrs.  Handcock,  the  young  and  charming  widow  of  Robert 
Handcock,  of  Waterstown,  Co.  Westmeath. 

Lady  Pery  was  by  birth  the  Hon.  Elizabeth  Vesey, 
eldest  daughter  of  Lord  Knapton,  and  on  her  mother's 
side  she  was  descended  from  the  Earls  of  Abercorn,  who 
were  of  Royal  lineage  and  belonged  to  one  of  the  oldest 
families  in  Scotland.  Elizabeth,  Countess  of  Abercorn, 
who  was  married  in  1686,  had  a  rare  but  not  unique 
experience,  for  she  lived  to  behold  her  great-great-grand- 
daughter, Elizabeth  Handcock,  Lady  Pery's  daughter  by 
her  first  marriage.  This  gave  rise  to  an  old  saying  still 
quoted  in  the  family  : 

"  Rise,  daughter,  and  go  to  your  daughter, 
For  your  daughter's  daughter's  got  a  daughter." 

All  five  were  named  Elizabeth. 

In  Frances  Pery's  time,  as  now,  a  knowledge  of  French 
was  considered  an  essential  part  of  the  education  of  every 
young  woman  of  fashion.  That  may  be  the  reason  why 
she  calls  her  reminiscences  "  Mes  Souvenirs  "  when  dedi- 
cating them  to  her  beloved  children.  She  adds,  with  a 
pretty  touch  of  pathos,  "  that  by  the  time  those  children 
read  her  memoirs  she  herself  will  be  mouldering  in  the 
grave."  To  realize  our  own  death  is  perhaps  as  hard  a  thing 
as  any  of  us  can  do  ;  and  we  must  not  forget  that  when 
our  heroine  first  sat  down  to  write  her  Journal,  she  was 
in  the  prime  of  her  very  lovely  womanhood,  and  had  still 
over  sixty  years  of  happy  and  prosperous  life  before  her. 

As  Lord  Pery  had  no  son,  the  title  became  extinct  at 
his  death  in  1806.  His  two  daughters,  Diana  Jane  and 
Frances,  married  respectively  the  Hon.  Thomas  Knox,1 

1  He  succeeded  his  father  in  1818,  and  in  1832  was  created  Earl 
of  Ranfurly.  He  was  a  Whig  and  a  supporter  of  Lord  Grey.  His 
eldest  son,  afterwards  2nd  Earl  of  Ranfurly,  was  a  Conservative,  and 
represented  the  family  seat  at  Dungannon  for  many  years. 


1789]  LONDON   GAIETIES  5 

eldest  son  of  Viscount  Northland,  and  Nicolson  Calvert, 
Esq.,  afterwards  of  Hunsdon  House,  Herts,  who  for 
thirty-two  years  represented  that  borough  in  Parliament. 
Mrs.  Calvert  gives  the  following  account  of  her  marriage  : 

"  It  was  at  Buxton  that  I  met  your  dear  father,  and 
we  became  mutually  attracted.  After  a  good  many 
delays,  Mr.  Nicolson  Calvert  and  I  were  united  on  the 
9th  of  January,  1789.  The  ceremony  was  performed  in 
my  father's  house,  Russell  Street,  Bath,  by  Lord  Rokeby, 
Primate  of  Ireland." 

At  the  time  of  her  marriage — indeed  for  long  afterwards 
— Mrs.  Calvert  was  extremely  handsome  and  attractive. 
She  was  tall  and  fair ;  with  blue  eyes,  and  the  stately 
bearing  for  which  many  women  of  her  day  were  remark- 
able. She  inherited  much  of  her  father's  wit  and  clever- 
ness, as  well  as  the  goodness  and  tenderness  of  heart  that 
made  Lady  Pery  so  beloved.  She  and  her  sister,  as  co- 
heiresses, were  well  dowered  :  Mrs.  Knox  succeeded  to 
most  of  Lord  Pery's  landed  property  in  Ireland,  and 
Mrs.  Calvert's  portion  of  £60,000  was  thought  in  those 
days  to  be  a  considerable  fortune. 

Mr.  Calvert's  father  at  that  time  lived  in  Portland 
Place,  where  he  took  his  young  wife  for  a  day  or  two  to 
introduce  her  to  his  family.  At  the  beginning  of  April 
we  find  the  young  couple  in  London,  whither  Lady  Pery 
accompanied  them.  Mrs.  Calvert  thus  describes  her 
visit  : 

"  We  found  it  a  scene  of  the  greatest  gaiety.  The 
King,1  who  had  been  for  some  time  out  of  his  senses,  had 
recently  been  cured  by  Dr.  Willis.2    There  was  nothing 

1  George  III. 

2  The  King's  three  physicians  were  Baillie,  Heberden,  and  Willis. 
Hence  the  epigram — 

"  Uncertain  which  most  sure  to  kill  is, 
Baillie,  Heberden  or  Willis." 


6       AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1789 

going  on  but  illuminations,  balls,  etc.  I  went  to  one  of 
the  latter  given  by  White's  Club  at  the  Pantheon,  but 
found  it  so  full  and  so  hot  that  I  declind  going  to  any 
more.  We  were  all  splendidly  dressed  in  a  uniform  of 
white  and  gold,  with  '  God  save  the  King  '  embroidered 
on  our  head-dresses." 

Loyalty  is  a  grand  virtue,  but  was  not  this  carrying  it 
a  little  far  ? 

"  Very  soon  after  that  my  dear  mother  left  us  to  go 
to  Ireland.  We  went  as  far  as  Windsor  with  her  and 
slept  there. 

"  Never  shall  I  forget  the  sensation  I  experienced  when, 
early  in  the  morning  as  I  lay  in  bed,  I  heard  the  step  of 
her  carriage  put  up,  and  the  carriage  drive  from  the  door. 
I  felt,  as  it  were,  abandoned  amongst  strangers,  and  I 
believe  should  have  been  long  in  recovering  my  spirits, 
but  for  the  kindness  of  your  dear  father,  who  fully 
understood  my  feelings. 

"  That  August  we  went  to  Weymouth,  the  first  year 
of  Their  Majesties'  being  there.  I  had  never  been  pre- 
sented at  Court,  but  they  were  so  gracious  as  to  intro- 
duce themselves  to  us  and  speak  to  us  constantly  on  the 
Esplanade  in  the  most  condescending  manner,  enquiring 
for  my  father  and  mother,  and  so  on.  We  determined 
to  be  presented  at  Court  on  our  return  to  London. 

"  Just  at  this  time  (1789)  the  French  Revolution  broke 
out.  The  papers  were  full  of  it,  and  it  was  the  theme 
of  every  tongue. 

"  In  November  we  were  presented  at  St.  James'. 
Mr.  Calvert  by  Lord  Cremorne1  and  I  by  Lady  Cour- 
town."2 

After  paying  a  few  visits  in  Ireland  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Calvert  settled  themselves  in  a  small  furnished  house  in 
Cork  Street. 

1  Thomas  Dawson,  created  Viscount  Cremorne  1785. 

2  Lady  Courtown  was  Elizabeth  Smythy,  daughter  of  the  Bishop 
of  Down  and  Connor. 


HON.    FRANCES   PERY   (MRS.  CALVERT) 


i79o]  THE  FRENCH   REVOLUTION  7 

"  I  had  my  box  at  the  Opera,  and  I  really  think  this 
was  the  happiest  time  of  my  life.  Never  having  met 
with  a  real  misfortune,  I  thought  I  was  to  be  exempt 
from  the  common  lot  of  mortality.  It  was  in  another 
furnished  house  [in  Dover  Street]  that  you,  my  beloved 
Felix,  were  born  on  the  16th  October,  1790.  Oh'  joyful 
moment !  never,  never  to  be  forgotten. 

"  My  dear  Felix  was  inoculated  for  the  small-pox  by 
Sir  Walter  Farquhar.1  He  was  so  ill  after  it  that  we  very 
nearly  lost  him. 

"  The  following  November  I  had  a  sweet  little  girl, 
whom  alas  !  I  have  since  lost.  She  was  christened 
Lavinia  after  Lady  Spencer,2  who  was  her  Godmother. 

"About  this  time  the  Duke  of  York3  married  Fredrica, 
daughter  to  the  King  of  Prussia.  I  was  presented  to  her 
at  the  Drawing-room  that  took  place  shortly  afterwards. 
She  seemed  to  me  to  be  a  poor-looking  little  thing ;  ill- 
dressed,  and  with  a  great  deal  of  rouge.4 

"Whilst  we  were  on  a  month's  visit  to  Dungannon,5 
the  seeds  of  rebellion  first  began  to  appear  in  Ireland. 

"We  returned  to  England  with  our  family,  and  as  we 
stepped  on  board  the  boat  the  custom-house  officer  in- 
formed us  that  the  unfortunate  King  of  France  had  been 
gillotined. 

"At  Birmingham,  where  we  stopped  to  change  horses, 
I  remember  shedding  many  tears  on  reading  his  will,6 
which  was  most  affecting. 

"  On  the  5th  of  April,  1793,  my  dear  Isabella  was  born 
in  a  furnished  house  in  Weymouth  Street.  It  was  about 
that  time  that  Mr.  Calvert's  father  came  to  reside  at 
Hunsdon  House,  having  inherited  it  on  the  death  of  his 

1  Sir  Walter  Farquhar  was  created  a  Baronet  March  ist,  1796,  and 
appointed  physician  to  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

2  Hon.  Lavinia  Bingham,  daughter  of  the  ist  Lord  Lucan,  wife  of 
George  John,  Earl  Spencer. 

3  Second  son  of  George  III. 

4  The  Duchess  of  York  died  1820,  leaving  no  children. 

6  Lord  Northland's  place  in  Tyrone.     Lady  Northland  was  Lady 
Pery's  sister,  and  therefore  aunt  to  Mrs.  Calvert. 
8  See  Appendix. 


8       AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1793 

eldest  brother.  He  sold  May  Place  to  his  cousin  Lady 
Fermanagh.1  A  little  later  Mr.  Calvert  and  I  went  for  a 
few  days  to  Lord  Maynard's,  Easton  Lodge.2 

"  In  August  of  that  year  we  went  for  a  short  time  to 
Brighton.  Our  house  in  West  Street  was  next  door  to 
Sir  William  and  Lady  Pitt,3  who  were  most  kind  and 
attentive  to  me. 

"  Lady  Pitt  presented  us  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  who 
invited  us  to  a  ball  at  the  Pavilion.  She  also  made  us 
acquainted  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  who,  although  she 
certainly  could  not  be  the  Prince's  wife  according  to  the 
law  of  the  land,  had  had  the  marriage  ceremony 
performed,  and  was  very  much  considered  and  re- 
spected. 

"  Lady  Jersey4  was  there  at  the  time,  and  I  saw  the 
beginning  of  that  flirtation.  It  afterwards  caused  the 
rupture  between  the  Prince  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  which 
ended  in  his  marrying  the  Princess  of  Wales." 

There  was  a  small  country  house,  named  Boningtons, 
within  a  walk  of  Hunsdon,  and  there  the  young  couple 
took  up  their  abode  on  their  return.  Mrs.  Calvert  men- 
tions a  visit  from  her  sister  and  brother-in-law  (who  was 
also  her  cousin),  and  the  whole  party  went  for  a  short 
time  to  stay  at  Cobham  Hall,  Lord  Darnley's  place  in 
Kent. 

Lord  Darnley  had  married  in  1791  Elizabeth,  third 
daughter  of  the  Right  Hon.  William  Brownlow  of  Lurgan.5 

1  Mary,  posthumous  daughter  of  the  Hon.  John  Verney  and  May, 
daughter  of  Jonas  Nicholson,  who  remarried  Richard  Calvert.  Was 
created  Baroness  Fermanagh  in  1792,  and  died  unmarried  November 
15th,  1 8 10. 

2  Now  owned  by  the  present  Countess  of  Warwick,  who  was  the 
granddaughter  of  the  last  Viscount  Maynard. 

*  General  Sir  William  Augustus  Pitt,  k.b.,  of  Heckfield,  Co.  South- 
ampton. He  married  the  Hon.  Mary  Howe,  fourth  daughter  of  Emanuel, 
2nd  Viscount  Howe,  and  d.s.p.  in  December,  1809. 

4  Frances  Twysden,  wife  of  George  Bussey,  4th  Earl  of  Jersey. 

6  His  son  Charles  Brownlow,  born  1795,  was  created  in  1839  Baron 
Lurgan  of  Lurgan. 


NICOLSON    CALVERT,    M.P. 


1794]  GEORGE   III   AT  WINDSOR  9 

Later  on  he  presented  a  petition  to  King  George  IV  in 
which  he  claimed  the  Dukedom  of  Lennox.  The  petition 
was  referred  to  the  House  of  Lords,  but  as  they  came  to 
no  satisfactory  conclusion,  the  matter  went  no  further. 

Considering  what  a  fearful  scourge  smallpox  was  in 
the  early  part  of  the  eighteenth  century,  one  cannot 
wonder  that,  in  the  upper  classes  at  any  rate,  every 
child  was  as  a  matter  of  course  inoculated.  The  custom 
met  with  great  opposition,  and  even  as  late  as  1760  was 
denounced  by  the  clergy  as  wicked  and  unnatural.  Mrs. 
Calvert  refers  to  the  subject : 

"  In  November  I  inoculated  Isabella  for  the  small  pox, 
and  she  had  it  most  favourably. 

"  1794. — The  1st  of  June  was  the  day  of  Lord  Howe's1 
splendid  victory.  On  the  same  day  I  had  another  little 
girl  named  Mary,  whom  I  have  been  so  unfortunate  as  to 
lose.2  My  grief  was  unbounded  ;  unused  to  misfortune 
as  I  was,  I  hardly  knew  how  to  bear  it. 

"  Before  going  to  Ireland  I  paid  Lady  Kingston3  a 
visit  at  a  small  cottage  she  had  near  Windsor.  One  even- 
ing we  took  a  walk  on  Windsor  Terrace  with  Felix. 
The  sweet  fellow  attracted  the  attention  of  the  King, 
who  was  there,  and  he  talked  to  him  for  an  hour.  So 
pleased  was  His  Majesty  with  his  appearance  and  con- 
versation, that  he  begged  I  would  bring  him  the  next 
evening  to  the  Terrace,  as  he  wished  to  show  him  to  the 
Queen  and  Princesses.  We  accordingly  obeyed,  and 
never  was  a  little  creature  so  admired  and  caressed. 
He  was  perfectly  at  his  ease,  called  His  Majesty  plain 

1  He  defeated  the  French  off  Ushant,  took  six  ships  of  war,  and 
sunk  one.  An  old  story  relates  that,  when  a  great  banquet  was  given 
in  honour  of  this  gallant  commander,  the  host  announced  that  the 
toast  he  was  about  to  propose  would  be  found  in  the  first  words  of  the 
third  Psalm  :  "  Lord  How." 

2  Little  Mary  died  at  Edmondsbury,  near  Dublin. 

3  Caroline,  the  only  child  of  Richard  Fitzgerald  of  Mount  Ophaley, 
married  in  1769  Robert,  2nd  Earl  of  Kingston. 


io     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1795-6 

'  George  ' — sometimes  '  King  ' — and  delighted  them  all 
with  his  innocence  and  vivacity." 

"  1795. — While  in  Ireland  we  heard  of  the  Prince  of 
Wales'  decided  rupture  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  and  of  his 
marriage  with  Caroline,  daughter  of  the  Duke  of  Bruns- 
wick. At  his  wedding,  he  is  said  to  have  been  dread- 
fully agitated,  and  has  indeed  ever  shewn  a  most  in- 
veterate dislike — one  may  almost  say  disgust — to  his 
unfortunate  wife." 

1796. — The  Princess  Charlotte  was  born  during  the 
following  winter,  but  her  birth  does  not  seem  to  have 
had  the  effect  of  reconciling  the  ill-assorted  pair.  Mrs. 
Calvert  gives  her  opinion  of  the  estrangement : 

"  Great  dissensions  were  said  to  have  taken  place 
between  the  Prince  and  Princess.  Lady  Jersey  was 
supposed  to  be  the  cause  of  this  ;  there  is  no  doubt  that 
she  took  every  sort  of  pains  to  set  His  Royal  Highness 
against  the  Princess,  and  most  fatally  succeeded.  Very 
soon  after  that  he  quarrelled  with  her  Ladyship.  He 
never  speaks  to  her  now,  and  I  believe  hates  her  most 
cordially,  but  so  it  is  imagined  he  does  the  Princess. 

"  Lady  Jersey  became  very  unpopular  with  the  mob, 
and  one  evening,  as  I  was  going  through  Covent  Garden 
in  my  chariot  at  the  time  of  an  election,  I  was  taken 
for  her  (I  have  always  been  considered  very  like  her), 
and  my  carriage  and  servants  were  well  pelted  with 
mud  before  we  got  clear  of  them." 

In  spite  of  very  troublous  times  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Calvert 
started  in  their  curricle  for  Ireland  the  following  July, 
their  children  following  in  a  chaise.  At  her  father's 
place,  Edmondsbury,  poor  Mrs.  Calvert  lost  two  more 
children,  Edmond  and  Lavinia,  who  died  from  some 
childish  epidemic.  It  was  probably  owing  to  this  sad 
misfortune  that  their  devoted  mother  went  through 
agonies  of  alarm  whenever  even  a  slight  illness  invaded 


1797-9]    AN   UNHAPPY   ROYAL  MARRIAGE  n 

her  nursery.  The  little  Calverts,  however,  seem  to  have 
been  a  sturdy  and  handsome  flock,  and  one  cannot 
help  thinking  that  a  little  wholesome  neglect  would  have 
done  them  no  harm  occasionally. 

1797. — A  mutiny  in  the  Fleet  caused  much  alarm,  but 
was  fortunately  quelled.  Matters  in  Ireland,  meanwhile, 
did  not  improve,  and  at  last  became  so  alarming  that 
Mrs.  Knox  and  her  sons  were  sent  over  to  England  for 
safety.  In  July  the  Rebellion  broke  out.  Numbers  were 
murdered,  and  many  more  fled  the  country.  By  this 
time,  Mrs.  Calvert  was  back  in  England,  and  we -hope 
had  recovered  her  spirits,  for  she  gives  us  an  amusing 
description  of  a  Royal  wedding. 

"  1797. — The  Princess  Royal1  was  married  in  May  to 
the  Duke  of  Wurtemburg.2  I  intended  to  have  gone  to 
the  drawing  room  afterwards,  but  did  not  on  account  of 
my  mourning  for  Lady  De  Vesci.  I  went  a  few  days 
later  to  see  Lady  Kingston,  and  walked  one  evening 
with  her  on  the  Terrace.  We  met  the  Royal  Family, 
who  stopped  to  speak  to  us.  The  Duchess  of  Wurtem- 
burg3 looked  very  happy,  leaning  on  her  husband.  I 
never  saw  so  large  a  man.  You  could  have  sat  upon  the 
projection  of  his  lower  Stomach  with  as  much  ease  as  in 
an  arm-chair.    They  left  England  shortly  afterwards." 

In  spite  of  this  auspicious  beginning,  it  is  to  be  feared 
that  the  marriage  was  not  a  very  happy  one,  for  the 
King  of  Wurtemberg  did  not  prove  either  a  kind  hus- 
band or  a  faithful  one. 

1799. — Lavinia  Frances  Calvert  was  born  on  January 
31st.  She  was  named  Lavinia  after  the  little  sister  who 
died  in  Ireland ;    this  was  a  very  common  fashion  in 

1  Charlotte  Augusta  Matilda,  born  1766. 

*  Afterwards  King  of  Wurtemberg.  There  were  no  children  of 
the  marriage. 

3  The  Queen  of  Wurtemberg  died  1828. 


12     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1800 

those  days,  and  often  caused  considerable  confusion.  By 
this  time  Lord  and  Lady  Pery  had  left  Ireland,  and  hired 
Hertford  Castle  from  Lord  Downshire,  and  there  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Calvert  and  their  children  came  to  live  with 
them.  Feeling  anxious  about  her  son  Felix's  health, 
Mrs.  Calvert  took  him  to  Brighton,  where  a  third  son — 
named  Nicolson,  after  his  father — made  his  appearance. 
Mr.  Nicolson  Robert  Calvert,  born  in  1800,  was  of 
Quenton  Castle,  Co.  Down.  He  married,  1826,  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  the  Rev.  Samuel  Blacker,  Prebendary  of 
Mallabrack,  and  had  two  daughters :  (1)  Rose,  subse- 
quently Mrs.  Ker,  and  (2)  Flora  Louisa,  who  married 
Lieut. -Col.  Alfred  Tippinge  (Grenadier  Guards),  and  had 
three  daughters :  (1)  Isabel,  married  Peter  Hawker  of 
Longparish  House,  Hants ;  (2)  Violet,  married  Egerton 
Leigh  of  Judrell  Hall,  Cheshire,  and  (3)  Helen,  married 
Arthur  Irwin  Dasent,  youngest  son  of  Sir  George  Webbe 
Dasent.  The  Diary  gives  an  interesting  sketch  of  society 
in  Brighton  at  that  period  : 

"  1800. — There  was  at  this  time  a  remarkable  pleasant 
society  at  Brighton — numbers  of  agreeable  families — and 
we  lived  in  the  most  sociable  way,  meeting  every  night 
at  one  another's  houses. 

"  The  Prince  of  Wales  came  for  a  few  days  to  the 
Pavilion.  He  gave  one  musical  party  at  which  I  was. 
I  played  a  pool  at  Commerce  with  His  Royal  Highness. 
Although  he  always  spoke  in  the  most  condescending 
manner  to  me  whenever  we  met,  I  had  never  till  then 
seen  so  much  of  him  as  on  that  evening  when  I  was  (as 
everyone  must  be)  quite  enchanted  with  his  manners, 
which  are  superior  to  everyone's. 

"  1800. — Another  evening  I  met  him  at  a  very  small 
party  at  Lady  Heron's,  but  he  soon  left  Brighton.  He 
was  at  that  period  entirely  engrossed  with  endeavouring 
to  be  reconciled  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  and  this  he  at  last 
effected. 


i8oi]  THE  KING'S  INSANITY  13 

"It  is  confidently  asserted  that  the  Queen1  herself 
interfered  to  reconcile  them,  and  it  is  even  said  that  the 
Princess  of  Wales  wished  it.  I  can  hardly  believe  this, 
but  altogether  it  is  a  strange  business,  and  of  so  delicate 
a  nature,  that  I  think  the  less  that's  said  of  it  the  better. 

u  1801. — At  the  end  of  December,  I  quitted  Brighton, 
and  went  to  London  to  our  house  in  Albemarle  Street. 
The  9th  of  January  being  our  wedding  day,  we  had  a 
large  family  party,  and  Nicolson  was  christened  by  the 
name  of  Nicolson  Robert.  We  also  had  him  inoculated 
with  the  Cowpox,  being  the  first  of  our  children  who  was 
not  inoculated  with  the  Small  pox. 

"About  this  time  we  got  the  melancholy  account  of 
the  loss  of  the  Babet,  the  ship  in  which  our  dear  John2 
(General  Knox)  was  gone  out  as  Governor  and  Commander 
in  Chief  to  Jamaica.  Many,  many  tears  did  I  shed  for 
him,  I  loved  him  as  a  brother,  and  never,  I  believe,  was 
there  a  man  so  deserving  of  the  regard  and  regret  every- 
one expressed  for  him.  We  long  had  hopes  that  the  ship 
was  not  lost,  as  it  was  not  seen  to  go  down,  but  years 
have  elapsed  since,  therefore  no  hope  can  be  indulged, 
though  I  am  sometimes  fool  enough  to  feel  some,  in 
spite  of  my  almost  conviction  that  it  is  impossible  they 
ever  should  be  realised.3 

"  My  father  continued  in  such  indifferent  health  that 
he  suddenly  determined  on  leaving  Hertford  Castle.  He 
went  to  our  house  in  London,  and  there  remained  for  a 
long  time,  desperately  ill. 

"  At  this  period,  the  King  was  again  attacked  with 
insanity,  but  soon  got  well.    Mr.  Pitt  quitted  Administra- 

1  Queen  Charlotte. 

2  He  was  Lord  Northland's  second  son,  and  therefore  first  cousin 
to  Mrs.  Calvert,  and  brother-in-law  to  her  sister. 

3  There  is  in  the  Knox  family  a  strange  superstition  that  one 
member  will  be  drowned  in  every  generation.  General  Knox  was  a 
very  distinguished  officer.  His  services  in  the  expedition  to  Holland 
are  mentioned  in  the  despatches  of  the  Duke  of  York,  dated  Head- 
Quarters,  Alkmaar,  October  6th,  1799.  He  was  chosen  by  H.R.H. 
to  conclude  the  armistice  between  the  combined  English  and  Russian 
and  French  armies,  to  which  he  signed  his  name  at  Alkmaar  October 
1 8th,  1799. 


14    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1802-3 

tion,  and  to  everyone's  surprise,  Mr.  Addington  was 1 
made  Prime  Minister." 

In  the  following  April,  Felix  Calvert  went  to  Harrow. 
His  family  shortly  after  went  to  live  at  Hunsdon  House, 
owing  to  the  ill-health  of  Mr.  Calvert's  father,  who  took 
up  his  abode  in  London. 

"  The  Limericks2  came  at  this  period  to  settle  in  Eng- 
land, and  purchased  a  house  in  Mansfield  Street,  and 
the  Knoxes,  who  had  a  house  that  winter  in  Hill  Street, 
purchased  their  present  house  in  Grosvenor  Street.3 

"  1802. — In  July,  Mr.  Calvert  was  elected  Member  for 
the  Borough  of  Hertford  without  opposition,  Mr.  Cowper,4 
brother  to  Lord  Cowper,  being  the  other  Member. 

"  1803. — On  the  8th  of  February,  you,  my  dear  William, 
were  born  in  Albemarle  Street.  Early  in  May,  we  took  up 
our  abode  at  a  small  house  belonging  to  us  at  Hunsdon, 
Mr.  C.  having  been  persuaded  by  his  architect  to  pull 
down  part  of  Hunsdon  House,  and  build  a  new  one. 

"  My  sister,  Mrs.  Knox,  and  her  daughter  Fanny,  who 
had  been  at  Nice  for  some  months,  returned  by  way  of 
Paris.  They  landed  a  few  days  before  war  was  declared 
and  therefore  escaped  being  detained  as  prisoners  by 
Bonaparte.  Since  the  war  began,  there  has  been  con- 
stant apprehension  of  invasion,  numbers  very  nervous 
about  it,  others  more  bold.  I  confess  I  have  been  alter- 
nately both.  Your  father  has  invariably  thought  the 
French  would  never  come.  As  yet,  though  constantly 
threatening,  they  have  not  made  the  attempt,  and  I 

1  Henry  Addington,  afterwards  Lord  Sidmouth,  was  born  in  1757, 
and  died  in  1844.  He  was  nicknamed  "  the  Doctor,"  because  his 
father  had  been  a  physician. 

2  Edward  Henry,  2nd  Baron  Limerick,  born  1758,  created  Viscount 
Limerick  1800,  and  Earl  of  Limerick  1803.  He  married  1783  Mary 
Alice,  only  daughter  and  heir  of  Henry  Ormsby,  Esq.,  and  died  1844. 
He  was  first  cousin  to  Mrs.  Calvert. 

3  Mr.  Knox  and  his  wife  lived  at  31  Upper  Grosvenor  Street  until 
the  year  1823,  when  they  took  up  their  residence  abroad. 

4  He  represented  it  in  Parliament  thirty-two  years.  In  politics 
Mr.  Nicolson  Calvert  was  a  Liberal.  The  Hon.  Edward  Spencer  Cowper 
was  born  1779,  married  1808  Catherine  Phillipps,  and  died  in  1823. 


GENERAL   THE    HON.  JOHN    KNOX.       I).    l8oO 


i&>3-4]    MURDER  OF  THE  DUC  D'ENGHIEN      15 

trust  we  are  now  so  fully  prepared  for  them  that  they 
would  be  instantly  crushed  to  atoms,  if  daring  enough  to 
approach  our  sea  girt  shores. 

"  1803. — At  the  end  of  September,  we  went  to  Town 
for  a  little  while,  and  I  placed  Isabella  at  Mrs.  Devis' 
in  Devonshire  Place,  as  I  found  I  could  not  properly 
attend  myself  to  her  education. 

"  In  October,  my  sister's  son,  James,  got  a  Typhus 
fever  at  school,  and  was  brought  to  my  father's  house. 
We  had  just  heard  of  poor  Lady  Northland's  death,  and 
I  was  staying  with  my  mother  to  keep  up  her  spirits.1 

u  1804. — On  the  1st  of  February,  Parliament  met. 
The  King  was  again  attacked  with  insanity,  and  con- 
tinued in  that  state  all  the  winter  ;  a  Regency  was  often 
talked  of,  but  nothing  done. 

"  Mr.  Addington  was  turned  out  of  office  in  the  Spring, 
and  Mr.  Pitt  replaced.  A  great  effort  was  made  to  get 
Fox  into  office,  but  the  King  obstinately  refused." 

"  At  the  beginning  of  March,  I  gave  a  great  Assembly, 
the  first  I  ever  had  at  my  house.2  It  was  much  crowded, 
but  people  seemed  pleased.  I  did  not  invite  the  Prince, 
on  account  of  His  Majesty's  illness,  but  when  I  gave 
another  in  May  the  King  being  pronounced  well,  I  invited 
his  Royal  Highness,  and  he  came.  He  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert 
were  the  last  people  in  the  house  (except  my  sister) ,  and 
I  was  much  surprised  at  their  going  away  in  the  same 
carriage,  but  that,  I  found  afterwards,  they  always  did." 

"  In  the  course  of  that  Spring,  I  went  to  hear  High 
Mass  celebrated  for  the  repose  of  the  Due  d'Enghien's 
soul,  whom  Bonaparte  had  put  to  death.3  I  saw  there 
besides  the  Due  d'Orleans,4  Montpensier,  Beaujolais,  and 

1  Lady  Northland  was  the  Hon.  Anne  Vesey,  sister  to  Lady  Pery 
and  Lady  Staples. 

2  The  Calverts  at  that  time  were  living  in  a  furnished  house,  22 
Albemarle  Street. 

3  The  Due  d'Enghien,  who  was  descended  from  the  great  Conde, 
was  seized  in  Baden  by  order  of  Bonaparte,  conveyed  to  Vincennes, 
and  after  a  hasty  trial  shot  by  torchlight,  immediately  after  con- 
demnation, March  21st,  1804. 

4  Afterwards  King  Louis  Philippe. 


16     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1804 

Berri,  (all  of  whom  I  had  seen  before).  Monsieur  x  is 
brother  to  the  King  of  France.  I  was  much  struck  by 
his  appearance.  He  is  a  very  fine  looking  man,  with  quite 
the  air  of  a  Prince,  which  none  of  the  others  have.  The 
Due  de  Berri  2  is  very  ugly  and  little.  Montpensier  3  also 
is  ugly ;  Orleans  nothing  particular,  except  that  he  has 
an  expression  of  countenance  I  don't  like.  I  know  him 
a  little  to  speak  to,  also  Beaujolais,  who  is  well  enough 
looking,  but  has  no  manners. 

"  Shortly  after  the  beginning  of  August  I  went  on  a 
visit  to  my  sister  at  Brighton,  taking  Isabella  and  Ed- 
mond  with  me.  There  I  remained  nearly  six  weeks. 
During  that  time  I  was  invited  six  or  seven  times  to  the 
Pavilion  (the  Prince  of  Wales).  One  of  the  nights  there 
was  a  very  pleasant  ball ;  the  other  nights  his  band 
played.  It  is  a  prodigious  fine  band,  as  he  has  taken  a 
great  deal  of  pains  with  them,  being  passionately  fond  of 
music.  He  sung  two  nights  himself,  which  he  does  very 
agreeably. 

"  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  lives  in  a  house  communicating 
with  the  Pavilion  till  one  she  is  building  is  finished. 
She  lives  entirely  with  the  Prince,  and  in  a  manner,  does 
the  honours  of  his  house.  His  attachment  and  attention 
to  her  is  unbounded  and  surprising.  She  is  now,  I  believe, 
about  fifty,  very  fat,  but  with  a  charming  countenance, 
her  features  are  beautiful,  except  her  mouth,  which  is 
ugly,  having  a  set  of  not  good  false  teeth,  but  her  person 
is  too  fat,  and  she  makes  a  great  display  of  a  very  white 
but  not  prettily  formed  bosom,  which  I  often  long  to 
throw  a  handkerchief  over.  Her  manners  are  good 
humored,  (though  I  think  I  can  at  times  discern  a  look 
of  ill  temper  glide  across  her  countenance),  unaffected  and 
pleasing,  but  very  absent,  and  I  often  have  thought  she 
was  not  happy,  for  she  heaves  such  deep  sighs  sometimes 

1  He  ascended  the  throne  September  16th,  1824,  under  the  title  of 
Charles  X. 

2  Younger  son  of  Charles  X.  Assassinated  at  the  Opera  House  in  Paris, 
February  13th,  1820,  by  Louvel.     He  married  Maria  Caroline  of  Naples. 

3  Brother  of  King  Louis  Philippe.     He  died  1807. 


HON.    ANNE   VESEY,    1ST    VISCOUNTESS    NORTHLAND 
D.   1803 


i8o4]    MRS.  FITZHERBERT'S  ADOPTED  CHILD    17 

in  one  of  those  fits  of  absence,  that  I  have  actually  started. 
There  does  not  seem  to  me  to  be  any  brilliancy  about 
Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  no  agreeable  talents,  or  powers  of 
captivation,  but  captivation  there  must  be  about  her, 
though  I  don't  perceive  it,  as  she  has  captivated  His 
Royal  Highness  for  so  many  years.  She  has  a  sweet 
little  girl  who  lives  with  her ;  the  orphan  daughter  of 
Lord  Hugh  and  Lady  Horatia  Seymour  j1  she  is  about 
five  years  old.  Lord  Hugh's  family,  and  also  Lady 
Horatia's  have  objected  to  her  living  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert 
for  many  reasons.  They  very  naturally  consider  the 
Prince's  mistress,  (for  what  else  can  one  call  her,  he 
having  a  wife  ?)  not  the  most  respectable  protectress — 
besides,  she  is  a  Roman  Catholic.  But  she  has  carried 
her  point,  and  keeps  her,  promising  faithfully  to  educate 
her  in  the  Protestant  religion,  and  I  understand  she  has 
a  clergyman  of  that  persuasion  to  come  to  her  two  or 
three  times  a  week.  The  Prince  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert 
are  passionately  fond  of  this  little  creature,  whom  they 
always  call  '  Minny.'2  She  calls  Mrs.  F.  '  Mama,'  and  the 
Prince  '  Prinny,'  and  I  hear  at  the  time  that  her  family 
wanted  to  get  her  from  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  she  often  clung 
with  her  little  arms  round  the  Prince,  saying  '  Prinny, 
won't  you  fight  for  me  ?  You  won't  let  them  take  me 
from  you/  The  Prince,  I  hear,  has  engaged  to  give  her 
ten  thousand  pounds. 

"  The  Pavilion  is  fitted  up  in  the  Chinese  style,  and 
very  beautiful ;  it  puts  me  in  mind  of  descriptions  in  the 
Arabian  Nights. 

"  The  Dukes  of  Clarence  and  Kent  came  down  on  the 
Prince's  birthday  for  a  few  days.  I  had  a  great  deal  of 
conversation  one  night  with  the  Duke  of  Clarence  ;  his 
manners  and  looks  are  very,  very  inferior  to  the  Prince's. 

1  Lord  Hugh  Seymour,  youngest  son  of  the  ist  Marquess  of  Hert- 
ford, was  born  1759,  became  an  Admiral,  married  1786  Anne  Horatia, 
third  daughter  of  James,  2nd  Earl  Waldegrave,  and  died  in  1801. 

2  Mary  Georgiana  Seymour  married  in  1825  Colonel  the  Hon. 
George  Damer,  from  whom  is  descended  the  present  Earl  of  Portar- 
lington.    She  died  October  30th,  1848. 


18      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1804 

He  had  two  natural  sons  with  him — fine  boys.  Mrs. 
Jordan  is  the  mother ;  they  are  called  Fitz  Clarence.  I 
am  not  acquainted  with  the  Duke  of  Kent,  but  I  don't 
like  his  looks. 

"  While  I  was  at  Brighton  the  Prince  went  to  London 
for  a  few  days,  and  it  was  hoped  he  was  going  to  be 
reconciled  to  his  Royal  father,  with  whom  he  has  been 
long  at  variance,  but  he  returned  without  that  being 
effected,  which  is  much  to  be  deplored. 

"  I  had  the  pleasure  of  shewing  Isabella  to  the  Prince, 
who  admired  her  extravagantly,  and  said  she  was  the 
most  beautiful  creature  he  ever  saw.  I  was  sadly  afraid 
my  dear  Isabella,  your  head  would  be  turned,  for  though 
he  did  not  say  it  in  your  hearing,  yet  his  manner  shewed 
he  admired  you.  It  is  the  custom  on  the  Prince's  birth- 
day, to  go  to  his  house,  and  in  the  hall  the  porter  gives 
you  a  book  where  you  write  down  your  name.  While  I 
was  in  the  act  of  doing  this  (Felix  and  Isabella  and 
Edmond  were  with  me),  the  Prince  came  into  the  hall. 
With  his  usual  condescending  manner,  he  thanked  us 
for  the  honor  we  did  him.  My  sister  and  Lady  Bridget 
Bouverie1  were  also  of  the  party.  The  Prince  spoke  in 
the  kindest  way  to  my  children,  and  upon  some  rain 
coming  on,  insisted  upon  our  waiting  till  his  coach  came 
to  the  door,  and  then  put  us  all  in  it,  and  sent  us  home. 

"After  I  had  concluded  my  visit  to  my  sister,  I  returned 
to  town  for  two  nights,  left  Isabella  at  Mrs.  Devis, 
Felix  went  to  Harrow,  and  I  came  down  to  Hunsdon, 
where  I  have  been  ever  since. 

"  My  sister  is  delighted  with  Nicolson,  whom  I  had 
sent  down  to  Brighton  to  visit  her.  She  thinks  him 
beautiful,  and  had  taken  him  to  visit  Mrs.  Fitzherbert, 
who  did  nothing  but  kiss  and  caress  him. 

"  I  am  just  come  back  from  Church,  and  have  brought 
up  my  Souvenirs  to  this  day,  September  30th,  1804." 

1  Lady  Bridget  Douglas,  daughter  of  James,  14th  Earl  of  Morton, 
married  1777  the  Hon.  William  Henry  Bouverie,  second  son  of  the 
1st  Earl  of  Radnor,  and  died  1842. 


CHAPTER    II 

Mrs.  Calvert  at  Hunsdon — Inoculation — England  at  war — Sir 
John  Sebright — Lord  and  Lady  Boringdon — A  divorce 
in  high  life — Mrs.  Devis  of  Devonshire  Place — The  Duke 
of  Wellington's  mother — Mary  Seymour  and  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert — Bonaparte's  coronation — Mrs.  Calvert  in  Albemarle 
Street. 

1804. 

WHEN  Mrs.  Calvert  began  the  Diary,  which 
she  kept  for  many  years  with  admirable 
regularity,  she  was  living  at  Hunsdon 
House  with  her  children  and  their  governess, 
apparently  very  busy  and  contented.  Early  in  October 
she  writes  : 

"  1804. — This  morning  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr. 
Chilver  enclosing  some  Cow-pox  matter,  as  I  wish  my- 
self to  inoculate  all  the  poor  people  about.  I  have  this 
morning  inoculated  two,  our  gardener's  wife  and  eldest 
daughter.  The  latter  was  so  frightened  and  shook  so,  I 
fear  I  shan't  have  succeeded." 

Those  were  troublous  times, 

"  Accounts  in  the  papers  to-day  of  our  having  de- 
stroyed 150  of  the  enemy's  gunboats  ;  I  hope  it  may 
prove  true.  A  letter  from  Edmond  Knox  *  my  sister's 
son  (who  is  a  midshipman  on  board  the  '  Juno  '  with  Lord 
Nelson  in  the  Mediterranean)  mentions  that  there  are 
the  greatest  apprehensions  that  Tom  Knox,  the  Bishop 
of  Derry's  son,  a  midshipman  in  the  '  Narcissus,'  is  lost 

1  Afterwards  Admiral  the  Hon.  E.  S.  P.  Knox,  who  died  in  1867. 

19 


20     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1804 

in  a  small  prize  which  his  Captain  sent  with  him  to 
Malta.    It  has  not  been  heard  of  for  several  months.1 

"  Lady  Limerick  has  got  an  eighth  daughter.  She  is  to 
be  called  Albinia."  2 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  undoubtedly  a  good  hater.  Writing 
from  her  sister's  house  in  Grosvenor  Street  she  remarks  : 

"  Sir  John  Sebright  3  is  a  particular  friend  of  Mr.  C.'s, 
though  very  unlike  him.  He  has  some  good  qualities, 
but  also  a  great  many  disagreeable  ones.  He  has  a 
violent  temper  and  is  very  odd  and  strange.  At  times 
he  is  entertaining,  but  much  oftener  tiresome,  a  great 
egotist  and  an  incessant  talker.  He  is  extremely  attached 
to  Mr.  C.  who  of  course  cannot  but  have  a  regard  for 
him,  although  fully  aware  of  his  faults. 

"  My  poor  Mother  is  very  low,  as  she  has  heard  that 
her  only  brother,  Lord  De  Vesci,  has  had  a  paralytic 
stroke  and  is  at  the  point  of  death."  4 

Informal  visiting  seems  to  have  been  a  good  deal  the 
fashion  at  that  time,  the  dinner  hour  being  very  early. 

"  When  we  were  all  sitting  at  our  work,  talking  of  a 
hundred  things,  Miss  Conyers  came  in  with  her  work 
to  pay  us  an  evening  visit.  She  stayed  the  whole  evening, 
which  was  a  great  restraint,  and  I  really  for  a  time  felt 
quite  out  of  humour  with  the  poor  woman." 

This  little  picture  puts  us  in  mind  of  Cranford.  The 
Diary  goes  on  to  describe  a  Mrs.  Brownlow,5  mother  of 
Lady  Darnley. 

1  Thomas  Knox,  eldest  son  of  the  Bishop  of  Derry,  was  drowned 
in  1804. 

2  She  died  young. 

3  Sir  John  Sebright,  sometime  M.P.  for  Herts,  born  1767.  He 
married  1793  Harriet,  only  daughter  and  heir  of  Richard  Crofts,  Esq., 
of  West  Harling,  Norfolk. 

4  Lord  De  Vesci  died  October  13th,  1804. 

5  Wife  of  the  Rt.  Hon.  William  Brownlow,  of  Lurgan,  an  ancestor 
of  the  present  Lord  Lurgan. 


» 

£^* 

i8o4]  LORD  AND  LADY  BORINGDON  21 

"  We  sat  at  our  work  and  supped  together.  Mrs. 
Brownlow  is  an  uncommon  pleasing  woman  but  bad 
tempered,  which  from  her  appearance,  which  is  all 
softness,  one  would  never  suppose.  It  is  a  pity  she  ever 
gives  way  to  it,  as  she  is  otherwise  so  charming — so  like 
a  gentlewoman  in  ideas  and  manner." 

Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  another  friend  of  her  mother's  as 
being 

"  so  gentlewoman-like,  obliging  and  pleasing.  She 
often  puts  me  in  the  mind  of  my  mother,  but  I  don't 
believe  she  ever  was  so  handsome." 

A  little  gossip  is  by  no  means  unwelcome  occasionally. 

"  Lord  Carhampton  tells  me  that  Lord  and  Lady 
Boringdon  1  are  going  to  part — that  she  says  he  is  so 
cross  she  can't  live  with  him.  They  are  only  married 
a  few  months  ;  what  a  pity  it  is  that  people  don't  con- 
sider more  than  they  do  their  tempers  before  they 
marry  !  " 

Lord  and  Lady  Lucan  2  are  going  to  part,  from  her 
misconduct ;  wretched,  silly,  infatuated  woman  !  Lady 
Spencer  and  Lady  Ann  Bingham  3  are  to  have  the  care 
of  the  children.  They  are  fortunate,  for  they  will  now  be 
brought  up  by  respectable  sensible  women." 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  always  fond  of  reading,  and  appears 
at  this  time  to  have  been  enjoying  Scarron's  Roman 
Comique. 

1  John  Parker,  2nd  Baron  Boringdon,  and  afterwards  1st  Earl 
of  Morley,  was  born  1772,  and  married  1804  Lady  Augusta  Fane, 
daughter  of  John,  Earl  of  Westmorland,  which  marriage  was  dissolved 
by  Act  of  Parliament,  1809. 

2  Richard,  2nd  Earl  of  Lucan,  in  1794  married  Lady  Elizabeth 
Belasyse,  third  daughter  of  Henry,  last  Earl  of  Fauconberg.  She 
was  the  divorced  wife  of  Bernard  Howard,  afterwards  Duke  of  Norfolk. 

3  Lady  Ann  Bingham,  sister  to  Lord  Lucan,  died  1840. 


22     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1804 

"  He  certainly  has  a  great  deal  of  wit,  but  of  too 
low  a  sort  to  please  me  much.  However  I  shall  read  it 
through." 

Her  next  book  was  Miss  Lee's  Life  of  a  Lover,  which 
also  rather  shocks  her. 

"It  is  very  interesting  and  well  written,  but  as  far 
as  I  have  read  yet  (which  is  only  the  first  volume)  the 
heroine  gives  herself  up  too  suddenly  to  love,  and  too 
violently  for  a  delicate,  well  brought  up  young  woman, 
and  when  she  discovers  that  he  is  a  married  man,  I 
cannot  conceive  that  she  is  not  instantly  cured  of  her 
passion." 

What  would  Mrs.  Calvert  think  of  some  of  the  heroines 
of  modern  fiction  !  The  second  volume  of  the  Life  of  a 
Lover  she  found  interesting,  but  the  heroine  decidedly 
too  impassioned. 

"  Mr.  C.  and  I  went  yesterday  morning  to  visit  Miss 
Grimston,  Lord  Grimston's  eldest  sister.1  She  is  a  good 
humoured  woman,  not  genteel  in  either  figure  or  manner, 
verging  on  being  an  old  maid,  but  very  good  tempered 
and  doesn't  want  for  sense.  She  and  her  sister  Charlotte 
(who  is  also  nearly  an  old  maid  but  don't  think  herself  so)2 
live  in  a  very  pretty  house  in  Chesterfield  Street. 

"  Upon  the  whole  they  are  friends  and  favourites  of 
mine,  though  I  can't  help  laughing  in  my  sleeve  at  Char- 
lotte's beauty,  airs,  and  dress. 

"  Nov.,  1804. — Bonaparte  has  been  guilty  of  a  most 
daring  outrage.  In  the  dead  of  night  two  hundred  and 
fifty  French  soldiers  crossed  the  Elbe  and  carried  off  our 
'  Charge  d'affaires,'  Sir  George  Rumbold, 3  f rom  Hamburg, 

1  Hon.  Frances  Cooke  Grimston  died  1848. 

2  Hon.  Charlotte  Grimston  died  1837. 

3  Sir  George  Berriman  Rumbold,  2nd  Baronet,  born  1764,  married 
1783  Miss  Caroline  Hearn.  Sir  George  was  Minister  Resident  at 
Hamburg,  when  he  was  seized,  October  25th,  1804,  by  order  of  the 
French  Government,  and  carried  a  prisoner  to  the  Temple  in  Paris,  but 


i8o4]  SIR  GEORGE  RUMBOLD  23 

and  all  his  papers.  It  is  a  most  unexampled  event  carry- 
ing off  an  ambassador  from  neutral  ground,  and  I  think 
it  must  rouse  the  powers  of  Europe." 

There  were  no  society  papers  a  hundred  years  ago,  and 
one  wonders  what  people  would  have  done  without  a 
fashionable  doctor  to  bring  tit-bits  of  gossip. 

"  Mr.  Chilver,  who  was  here  yesterday,  said  he  was  just 
come  from  Lady  Rumbold  who  was  in  great  trouble. 
She  had  received  a  few  lines  from  her  husband,  but  of 
course  being  in  the  hands  of  the  enemy,  he  could  write 
no  particulars.  I  almost  wonder  that  they  allowed  him 
to  write  at  all." 

Mrs.  Calvert  writes  from  Hunsdon  : 

"  I  had  a  long  letter  from  Mr.  C.  to-day.  He  has  taken 
No.  5  Albemarle  Street,  which  belongs  to  Mr.  Cavendish 
Bradshaw.  We  have  taken  a  lease  of  it  and  are  to  pay 
£35°  a  year,  independent  of  taxes,  coach  houses  or 
stables." 

"  Hunsdon  House,  Nov.  12th. — I  have  this  morning 
inoculated  twelve  people.  I  hope  I  shall  succeed.  Mr. 
Hammond,  a  neighbouring  Clergyman,  paid  me  a  visit 
this  morning.  I  don't  like  him,  he  is  not  what  a  Clergy- 
man ought  to  be — he  attends  Newmarket  Races,  etc., 
and  is  what  I  abominate — a  Buck  Parson. 

"  I  hear  that  the  King  and  Prince  of  Wales  have  had 
an  interview  and  are  reconciled.    This  is  very  good  news." 

Mrs.  Calvert  made  an  appointment  with  Mr.  Gillow, 
the  upholsterer,  to  meet  her  in  Albemarle  Street  and 
settle  what  was  to  be  done  there.  She  then  went  to 
"  chuse  "  furniture  at  this  excellent  and  evidently  old- 
established  shop,  one  of  the  very,  very  few  that  have  not 
changed  hands  since  then. 

was  released  after  an  imprisonment  of  three  days.  He  died  at  Memel 
December  15  th,  1807. 


24     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1804 

'*  At  Curzon  Street  Chapel  on  Sunday  I  heard  an  ex- 
cellent sermon  from  Mr.  Coombe,  junior.  I  met  Mrs. 
Walpole  *  coming  out,  who  told  me  that  the  reconciliation 
is  perfect  between  the  King  and  the  Prince,  and  the  Prince 
is  in  high  spirits.  Mrs.  Walpole  sees  a  great  deal  of  him, 
being  very  intimate  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert." 

There  was  in  those  days  living  in  Devonshire  Place, 
near  the  top  of  Harley  Street,  a  certain  Mrs.  Devis,  in 
whom  the  great  Lady  Salisbury  took  considerable 
interest.  She  recommended  many  of  her  friends  to  send 
their  daughters  to  Mrs.  Devis'  school,  and  little  Isabella 
Calvert  was  for  some  years  a  pupil  there.  Her  mother 
now  and  then  called  to  take  her  out,  but  one  morning 
she  says  : 

"  I  had  the  inexpressible  mortification  of  hearing 
that  she  had  been  very  pert  to  Mrs.  D.  who  requested 
that  I  would  not  take  her.  I  actually  shed  tears,  I  was 
so  hurt,  but  I  applauded  Mrs.  Devis  for  informing  me, 
and  I  trust  this  will  be  a  useful  lesson  to  Isabella.  She 
cried  the  whole  time  I  was  in  the  room." 

Mrs.  Calvert  describes  the  Dowager  Lady  Rossmore  a 
of  that  day  as 

"  a  most  agreeable,  chearful,  pleasant,  elderly  woman. 
She  has  all  the  gaiety  of  youth  in  her  conversation, 
without  levity,  and  enjoys  the  world  and  her  friends  as 
much  as  if  she  were  younger.  She  is  rather  too  fond  of 
cards — I  quiz  her  for  it — and  she  owns  they  are  meat  and 
drink  to  her. 

"  When  I  returned  to  Hertford  Street  3  I  found  Lady 

1  Margaret,  daughter  of  Sir  Joshua  Van  Neck,  Bart.,  and  sister  to 
1st  Lord  Huntingfield,  married,  November  22nd,  1757,  Hon.  Richard 
Walpole,  M.P.  for  Yarmouth,  third  son  of  Horatio,  Lord  Walpole 
of  Wolterton.     She  died  May  9th,  18 18. 

8  Elizabeth,  widow  of  the  1st  Baron  Rossmore,  who  died  in  1801. 
She  was  a  daughter  of  John  Murray,  Esq. 

3  Where  she  was  staying  with  Lord  and  Lady  Pery. 


i8o4]  THE  DUKE  OF  WELLINGTON'S  MOTHER     25 

Croft  on  1  paying  a  morning  visit.  What  a  trifling 
silly  woman  !  Extravagant  and  unthinking — the  mother 
of  nine  children,  all  grown  up  and  some  married  with 
families.  She  was  dressed  yesterday  like  a  girl,  a  small 
green  velvet  hat  turned  up  on  one  side,  and  a  long 
feather  hanging  down  on  the  other  ;  her  meagre,  wrinkled 
face  forming  a  fine  contrast  to  her  youthful  head-dress. 

"  Nobody  dined  with  us,  the  Dowager  Lady  Lucan  2 
and  Lady  Mornington  3  came  in  the  evening.  Lady 
Lucan  is  a  very  agreeable  old  woman,  not  a  woman 
that  I  could  either  love  or  esteem  (though  she  has  always 
been  strictly  virtuous).  She  is  insincere,  satyrical, 
violent  and  odd-tempered,  but  she  is  uncommonly 
agreeable — a  great  deal  of  wit,  information,  and  words 
at  command.  She  dresses  in  a  costume  of  her  own, 
and  looks  so  like  a  little  old  witch  that  you  can't  help 
looking  for  her  broom  stick.  However  I  like  her  dress 
infinitely  better  than  poor  Lady  Crofton's  attempt  at 
youth. 

"  As  for  Lady  Mornington,  she  is  a  common-place 
character,  with  soft,  gentlewoman-like  manners,  and 
has  that  sort  of  conversation  and  manner  which  makes 
her  please  more  perhaps  than  would  a  more  learned 
woman,  or  one  of  more  distinguished  intellect.  She  is 
mother  to  Lord  Wellesley,  now  Governor  General  in  India. 

"  Lady  Lucan  gave  us  the  whole  account  of  her 
daughter-in-law's  conduct.  What  a  depraved  horrid 
woman  she  is  !  Lord  Lucan  has  been  quite  distracted 
by  his  wife's  conduct.    He  actually  idolized  her. 

"  My  dear  father  has  made  me  a  present  of  £400  to 
buy  furniture  for  my  new  house.    I  have  been  to  deposit 

1  Baroness  Crofton,  of  Mote,  Co.  Roscommon.  She  died  1817, 
having  married  1767  Sir  Edward  Crofton,  M.P.  His  wife  was  elevated 
to  the  Peerage  of  Ireland  1797,  an  honour  intended  for  Sir  Edward, 
had  he  lived.  Lady  Crofton  was  the  only  daughter  and  heir  of  Thomas 
Croker  of  Baxtown,  Co.  Kildare. 

2  Sir  Charles  Bingham  was  created  Earl  of  Lucan  in  1795,  and  died 
1799.  He  married  in  1760  Margaret,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  James 
Smith,  M.P.,  of  Cannonsleigh,  Devon. 

3  Mother  of  the  great  Duke  of  Wellington,  and  daughter  of  the  1st 
Viscount  Dungannon. 


26     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1804 

it  at  Bank  Buildings.  I  then  bought  myself  an  Eight  in 
the  Lottery  at  Richardson's,  a  good  luck  number,  11,009. 
"  I  have  been  reading  the  '  Memoirs  of  Agrippina ' 
which  are  extremely  pretty.  They  are  written  by  Miss 
Hamilton,  whom  Lord  Lucan  has  got  for  a  governess. 
I  hear  he  is  to  give  her  £200  a  year." 

We  cannot  help  wondering  whether  the  Memoirs  of 
Agrippina  was  exactly  the  sort  of  book  that  one  would 
expect  an  instructress  of  youth  to  write  ! 

Felix  Calvert  was  at  Harrow,  and  his  mother  was 
somewhat  disturbed  at  hearing 

"  a  sad  account  of  it.  Mr.  Sandford  says  they  drink  and 
game  there.  God  preserve  my  darling  Felix  from  those 
baneful  vices  !  " 

"  Dec.  1,  1804. — Little  Miss  Seymour's  family  are 
endeavouring  to  get  her  from  Mrs.  Fitzherbert ;  it  is 
now  being  tried  in  the  Law  Courts,  and  they  think  they 
will  gain  their  point.  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  in  consequence 
is  in  such  grief  that  she  keeps  Her  bed  and  is  in  strong 
hystericks." 

Mary  Seymour,  the  little  girl  in  question,  had  been 
confided  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  care  by  her  mother, 
Lady  Hugh  Seymour,  before  her  departure  for  Madeira. 
Lady  Hugh  was  by  birth  Lady  Horatia  Waldegrave,  one 
of  the  three  lovely  sisters  immortalized  by  Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds.  Both  she  and  her  husband  died  young,  and 
their  child  remained  under  the  care  of  Mrs.  Fitzherbert 
(who  adored  her),  much  against  the  will  of  her  father's 
relations. 

"  I  hear  that  the  King  and  Prince  of  Wales  are  dis- 
puting which  is  to  have  the  charge  of  Princess  Charlotte's 
education.  Six  of  the  judges  have  given  it  in  favour  of 
His  Majesty  and  six  for  the  Prince.    Tomorrow  is  the 


i8o5]  BONAPARTE'S  CORONATION  27 

day  appointed  by  Bonaparte  for  his  coronation.  It  is 
the  idea,  and  I  may  say  hope,  of  many  that  he  will  be 
assassinated  on  that  day.  Lady  Lucan  says,  however, 
that  he  is  very  much  beloved  in  France.  They  think  an 
Emperor  a  much  finer  thing  than  a  King,  and  delight 
in  all  the  splendour  and  pageantry  that  Bonaparte  is 
surrounded  with." 

Mrs.  Calvert  returns  to  Hunsdon  House  for  Christmas, 
and  resumes  with  great  ardour  the  work  of  inoculation. 

"  But  out  of  the  fourteen  I  inoculated  only  Thomas 
Pigram  has  taken  the  infection  !    I  am  very  unlucky." 

Notwithstanding  her  excellent  intentions,  we  cannot 
help  suspecting  that  the  tenants  must  have  felt  many  a 
sick  qualm  of  terror  at  the  sight  of  the  Squire's  lady  and 
her  lancet ! 

Mr.  Hammond,  who  was  evidently  no  favourite,  comes 
in  for  a  word  of  disapproval : 

"  The  gentlemen  sat  at  their  bottle  till  ten,  which 
I  laid  to  Mr.  Hammond  as  he  likes  drinking  too  well  for 
a  Clergyman.  I  had  a  letter  from  my  mother  to-day. 
They  have  been  settled  a  week  in  their  new  house,  no 
Park  Street.1  Poor  Theodosia  Pery,2  Lord  Limerick's 
second  daughter,  is  I  fear,  dying  of  consumption." 

"  1805,  Albemarle  Street,  Jan.  nth. — Our  house  here 
looks  delightfully,  I  think,  and  the  furniture  is  beautiful 
indeed.  I  go  about  my  rooms  like  a  child  admiring  a 
new  plaything.  Mr.  Addington  is  created  Viscount 
Sidmouth  and  coming  into  office.  It  is  said  that  Lord 
Buckinghamshire3  is  to  go  as  Lord  Lieutenant  to  Ireland. 
There  are  rumours  of  peace,  but  I  fear  unfounded." 

1  Both  Lord  and  Lady  Pery  died  in  this  house. 

2  Lady  Theodosia  Pery  recovered  and  married,  July  nth,  1811, 
Thomas  Spring  Rice,  afterwards  Lord  Monteagle.    She  died  1839. 

3  Robert,  4th  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  born  1760,  died  February 
4th,  1 8 16. 


CHAPTER    III 

Lord  Limerick — Death  of  Mr.  Lamb — Princess  Charlotte's  gover- 
ness— A  dinner  at  Grillon's — Lucky  at  cards — Lady  Almeria 
Carpenter — Mrs.  Calvert  at  Court — A  latter-day  prophet 
— Death  of  Lady  Maria  Micklethwaite — Chapel  Royal — 
A  Scotch  party — Lord  Melville's  impeachment — Installation 
at  Windsor — Lady  Derby — Lady  Caroline  Lamb — A  ball 
at  Hatfield — Bad  news  from  India — Country  neighbours. 

"  1805,  January  15th. 

1  DINED  in  Park  Street  yesterday  and  Lord 
Limerick  dined  there  too.  He  is  an  agreeable 
pleasant  creature,  but  selfish  and  vain,  and  taken 
up  with  his  own  importance.  I  quiz  him  constantly. 
I  must  say  he  bears  it  very  good-humouredly, 
though  he  can't  like  it — one  can't  help  laughing  at  him. 
It  does  him  good  for  a  while,  but  vanity  breaks  out 
again,  and  in  spite  of  his  good  sense  he  can't  help  boast- 
ing of  his  great  acquaintance,  fine  invitations  and  the 
civil  things  people  say  to  him.  '  Dear  me  ! '  said  I 
to  him  ironically  yesterday  (he  had  been  telling  me 
how  Lord  Hawkesbury  and  so  many  of  the  ministers 
has  asked  him  to  dinner),  '  what  a  fine  thing  it  is  to  be 
so  great  a  man  !  ' 

"  He  told  me  an  anecdote  of  Mr.  Jekyll,1  a  great  wit. 

1  Joseph  Jekyll,  born  1754,  only  son  of  Captain  Edward  Jekyll,  r.n., 
educated  at  Westminster  School  and  at  Christ  Church,  Oxford.  M.A. 
1777.  He  was  called  to  the  Bar  at  Lincoln's  Inn  1778.  He  transferred 
himself  to  the  Inner  Temple  in  1795,  and  became  in  turn  bencher,  1795, 
reader,  18 14,  and  treasurer,  18 16.  His  practice  was  not  large,  but  his 
fame  soon  spread  as  a  diner-out,  a  wit,  and  contributor  to  the  news- 
papers. His  contributions  chiefly  appeared  in  the  Morning  Chronicle 
and  the  Evening  Statesman.  On  August  20th,  1787,  he  was  returned, 
through  the  favour  of  Lord  Lansdowne,  M.P.  for  Calne,  Wilts,  and 
represented  that  constituency  continuously  until  he  resigned  the  seat 
on  February  23rd,  18 16.  He  married,  August  20th,  18 10,  Maria, 
daughter  of  Hans  Sloane,  of  Paultons,  M.P.  for  Lostwithiel.     He  was 

28 


i8o5]  MR.  JEKYLL'S  BON  MOT  29 

He  was  at  a  dinner  where  Toasts  were  given.  One  person 
gave  the  Duke  of  Bedford  and  the  House  of  Russell, 
another  Lord  Lansdowne  and  the  House  of  Petty,  and 
so  on.  When  it  came  to  Mr.  Jekyll's  turn,  he  said,  '  Well, 
gentlemen,  I  give  you  the  twelve  judges,  and  the  House 
of  Correction.' 

"January  20. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  at  Lord  Darnley's, 
Lord  and  Lady  Charlemont  *  were  there.  Lord  Charle- 
mont  seems  a  very  good  sort  of  young  man,  Lady  C. 
a  very  pretty  little  woman. 

"January  23. — We  dined  at  Lord  Carhampton's* 
Lord  Loftus  was  there.  Lord  Loftus  2  is  son  to  the 
Marquis  of  Ely — a  little  squat,  ugly  man,  who  fancies 
himself  like  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  dresses  at  him. 
He  really  accomplishes  making  himself  a  frightful  cari- 
cature of  His  Royal  Highness. 

"  January  25. — Mr.  Lamb,3  (Lord  Melbourne's  eldest 
son),  is  dead.  He  was  member  for  Hertfordshire.  We 
do  not  yet  know  who  means  to  start.  They  talk  of  Mr. 
Brand.4 

"  January  27. — I  went  out  visiting  with  my  sister. 
We  went  to  see  Lady  Rossmore,  and  met  Lady  Camden  5 
there.  How  altered  she  is,  from  a  very  pretty,  round- 
faced  girl,  which  I  remember  her,  with  an  elegant 
little  figure,  and  beautiful  teeth,   she  is  now  a  little 


elected  a  F.R.S.  June  3rd,  1790,  and  F.S.A.  December  16,  1790.     He 
died  1837,  leaving  two  sons. 

1  Francis  William,  k.p.,  5  th  Earl  of  Charlemont,  born  1775,  married 
1802  Anne,  daughter  and  co-heir  of  the  late  William  Bermingham,  of 
Ross  Hill,  Co.  Galway,  and  died  1863. 

2  Lord  Loftus,  afterwards  2nd  Marquis  of  Ely,  born  1770,  married 
1 8 10  Anna  Maria,  daughter  of  Sir  H.  W.  Dashwood,  Bart.,  and  died 
1845. 

3  By  the  death  of  his  elder  brother  William  Lamb  became  heir  to 
his  father's  title  and  estates. 

4  The  Hon.  Thomas  Brand,  born  March  15th,  1774.  M.P.  for  the 
County  of  Hertford.  Married,  December  4th,  18 19,  Barberina,  relict 
of  Valentine  Wilmot,  of  Farnborough,  Hants,  and  daughter  of  Admiral 
Sir  Chaloner  Ogle,  2nd  Baronet  of  Worthy.  He  succeeded  his  mother 
in  October,  18 19,  as  20th  Lord  Dacre. 

6  Lord  Camden  married  1785  Frances,  daughter  and  heir  of 
William  Molesworth,  Esq.,  of  Wembury,  Devon. 


3o      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

hump -back  wizened  woman,  with  black  teeth,  and 
yet  she  is  not  much  above  forty.  We  heard  that  the 
Dowager  Lady  De  Clifford  *  is  appointed  governess 
to  Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales.  She  is  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's 
bosom  friend,  which  I  think  makes  the  choice  a  very 
improper  one,  and  is  devoted  also  to  the  card  table. 
I  should  think  her  but  little  calculated  to  instruct  our 
future  Queen  in  anything  but  a  game  of  whist. 

"  I  went  afterwards  to  Lady  Claremont's,  as  I  was 
going  out  of  the  room  in  the  passage  I  met  the  Prince 
of  Wales  coming  in  to  visit  Lady  Claremont.  He  stopped 
me,  and  shook  me  by  the  hand  in  his  usual  gracious  way, 
enquiring  after  all  my  little  ones. 

"  January  29. — I  went  out  yesterday  morning,  and 
called  upon  Lady  Neave — she  was  obliging  enough  to  tell 
me  that  when  she  lived  in  this  house,  it  stunk  of  sewers.2 
She  sent  me  home  fretting  myself  to  fiddlestrings. 

"  George  Knox  3  was  to  be  married  yesterday  to  his 
cousin  and  mine,  Anne  Staples.  We  had  not  heard  a 
word  of  its  being  about  to  take  place  till  yesterday. 
She  is  an  amiable  good  girl,  but  not  pretty.  George 
has  taken  a  house  in  this  street,  which  will  be  a  great 
comfort  to  me,  as  I  am  very  fond  of  him. 

"  February  4. — This  is  my  birthday.  I  am  thirty-seven, 
quite  an  old  lady  ! 

"  February  6. — I  dined  at  Grillon's  Hotel  in  this  street, 

1  Lady  de  Clifford  succeeded  Lady  Elgin  as  governess  to  the 
Princess  Charlotte.  She  was  Sophia,  daughter  of  Samuel  Campbell, 
of  Mount  Campbell,  Co.  Leitrim,  wife  of  the  20th  Lord  de  Clifford, 
and  died  in  1828,  aged  eighty-five. 

2  Though  sanitary  inspectors  were  then  unknown,  it  seems  strange 
that  a  person  so  nervous  about  illness  as  Mrs.  Calvert  should  not 
have  satisfied  herself  as  to  the  healthiness  of  the  house  before  going 
into  it.     Two  bad  cases  of  fever  occurred  very  shortly  afterwards. 

3  The  Right  Hon.  George  Knox,  fifth  son  of  Viscount  Northland, 
married  1805  Anne,  second  daughter  of  Sir  Robert  Staples,  Bart.  She 
died  of  consumption  in  181 1. 

George  Knox  was  called  to  the  Bar  in  1788,  and  subsequently 
represented  the  University  of  Dublin  both  in  the  Irish  and  Imperial 
Parliaments.  He  was  for  a  short  period  a  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  and 
was  created  a  Privy  Councillor  in  1806.  He  was  characterized  by  the 
Marquess  of  Lansdowne  as  "  one  of  the  ablest  men  that  Ireland  has  ever 
produced." 


HON.    MRS.    GEORGE    KNOX 


i8o5]  LADY  ALMERIA  CARPENTER  31 

with  Lord  and  Lady  Cassilis.1  Mr.  C.  was  detained 
at  the  House  of  Commons.  Lord  and  Lady  C.  are  Scotch, 
and  I  think  uncommonly  pleasing.  She  is  rather 
pretty,  but  looks  very  delicate  ;  he  is  a  very  well  looking 
young  man,  lively,  and  gentleman-like  in  his  manners. 
Lady  Charlotte  Lennox,2  Lord  Rosslyn,  Lord  Limerick, 
and  Lord  Archibald  Hamilton  3  dined  there.  We  did 
not  dine  till  half-past  seven.  Lady  C.  Lennox  is  a 
daughter  of  the  Duchess  of  Gordon.  She  is  no  great 
favourite  of  mine.  However,  she  was  better  humored 
yesterday,  and  pleasanter  than  usual.  Lord  Archibald 
Hamilton  is  a  handsome  man,  son  to  the  Duchess  of 
Hamilton.  I  don't  believe  he  wants  for  understanding, 
but,  being  very  deaf,  though  a  young  man,  is  I  think, 
dull.  Lord  Rosslyn  I  have  known  for  many  years. 
He  was  Sir  James  St.  Clair  Erskine.4  He  is  just  come 
into  his  title,  by  the  death  of  his  uncle,  and  is  a  pleasant 
man.  I  went  at  night  to  a  party  at  Mrs.  Jones's,  and 
played  rubbers  at  casino.  I  won  £2.  There  were  three 
other  card  tables.  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  was  there,  but  not 
her  Royal  Lover.  She  looked  very  well.  I  felt  rather 
cold  to  her,  as  I  thought  she  was  not  civil  to  my  Sister 
at  Brighton,  but  she  was  so  cordial  in  her  manner  to  me 
that  my  coldness  involuntarily  vanished. 

"  February  8. — We  dined  in  Grosvenor  Street,  at  Mr. 
Knox's.  I  carried  two  Miss  Bouveries  there  to  dinner.  Mr. 
Knox  and  I  went  at  night  together  to  Lady  Almeria  Car- 
penter's.5   There  were  three  card  tables  there;  I  won  £3. 

1  Archibald,  12th  Earl  of  Cassilis,  born  1770,  raised  to  the  Mar- 
quisate  of  Ailsa  1831.  He  married  1793  Margaret,  second  daughter 
of  John  Erskine,  Esq.,  of  Dun,  Angus. 

2  Lady  Charlotte  married  1789  Charles  Lennox,  afterwards  4th 
Duke  of  Richmond,  and  died  1842. 

3  Lord  Archibald,  second  son  of  the  9th  Duke  of  Hamilton,  born 
1769,  died,  unmarried,  1827. 

4  Sir  James  St.  Clair  Erskine,  Bart.,  succeeded  his  uncle  as  2nd 
Earl  of  Rosslyn  1805.  He  was  a  general  officer,  Colonel  of  the  9th 
Regiment  of  Dragoons,  and  a  K.C.B.  He  married  1790  Elizabeth, 
eldest  daughter  of  the  late  Hon.  Edward  Bouverie,  and  died  1837. 

6  Lady-in-Waiting  to  the  Duchess  of  Gloucester.  She  was  a 
daughter  of  Lord  Tyrconnel.  Her  natural  daughter  by  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester  married  in  1803  Godfrey,  3rd  Lord  Macdonald  of  Slate. 


32      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

"  February  11. — We  payed  a  good  many  visits  yester- 
day. We  got  in  at  Lady  Charlotte  Lennox's.  I  cannot, 
somehow,  like  her,  and  I  can't  say  why.  Her  sister, 
the  Duchess  of  Bedford,1  was  sitting  with  her.  She  is 
a  pretty  young  woman,  but  I  think  there  is  a  hauteur 
about  her — a  careless  look  of  conscious  superiority, 
of  rank,  which  offends  me,  not  but  what  she  is  civil 
enough  in  her  manner,  but  she  don't  hit  my  fancy. 

"  We  visited  afterwards  the  Duchess  of  Athole.2 
She  is  a  very  pleasing  woman,  without  the  least  height 
in  her  manner.  The  Duke  was  married  first  to  a  cousin 
of  my  Mother's,  and  has  several  grown-up  children. 
We  saw  only  two  to-day  ;  Lady  Amelia,3  and  Lady 
Elizabeth,4  both  very  ugly.  Lady  Amelia  seems  good- 
humored,  but  Lady  Elizabeth  looks  very  cross. 

"  In  the  evening,  I  wrote,  played  on  the  pianoforte, 
and  read  the  '  Spectator '  till  eleven,  when  I  went  to  bed. 

"  February  14. — Lady  Limerick  pretends  to  be  in  a 
great  fuss  at  being  invited  by  the  Queen  to  the  ball  at 
Windsor.  I  think  it  all  pretence,  for  nobody  dislikes 
being  distinguished  by  Royalty. 

"  February  15. — I  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's. 
There  was  an  assembly  there.  I  played  at  casino.  The 
Prince  shook  me  by  the  hand,  but  I  did  not  think  with 
the  same  cordiality  as  usual,  nor  did  he  ask  for  Mr.  C. 
I  attribute  it  to  Mr.  C.  having  voted  with  the  Ministers 
a  few  nights  ago.  If  that  is  the  case,  I  must  say  it  is  a 
littleness  in  a  Prince.    But  perhaps  it  is  only  my  fancy. 

"  February  19. — We  dined  at  Mr.  Knox's.  Lord 
Limerick  told  me  that  Theodosia  was  bled  just  before 
he  came  out.     My  sister  had  a  party  in  the  evening. 

1  Lady  Georgiana,  fifth  daughter  of  Alexander,  4th  Duke  of  Gordon, 
married  1803  (as  his  second  wife)  John,  6th  Duke  of  Bedford,  and 
died  1853. 

2  Marjory,  eldest  daughter  of  Lord  Forbes  and  widow  of  Lord 
Macleod,  married  (as  his  second  wife)  1794  John,  4th  Duke  of  Athole, 
and  died  1842. 

^3  Lady  Amelia  Murray  married  Viscount  Strathallan,  and  died  1849. 
4  Lady  Elizabeth  Murray  married  Sir  Evan  Macgregor,  Bart.,  and 
died  1846. 


DIANA   JANE    PERY,    1ST    COUNTESS    OF    RANFURLY 
From  a  picture  at  Duvgannon  Park,  by  permission  of  the  Earl  of  Ranfurly 


i8oS]    QUEEN  CHARLOTTE'S  DRAWING  ROOM     33 

I  played  at  casino  with  Mrs.  Malcolm,  Lady  Went- 
worth,1  and  Lady  Harcourt,  and  won  £5. 

"  This  is  fast  day,  and  I  have  just  come  back  from 
Church. 

"  February  22. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  Court  yesterday 
with  Mr.  K.  and  my  sister.  My  dress  (what  signifies  the 
dress  of  a  woman  of  thirty-seven  ?  but  I  will  mention  it, 
that  many  years  hence  my  grandchildren,  if  I  ever  have 
any,  may  know  the  Costume  of  1805)  well !  my  dress 
was  a  crape  petticoat,  embroidered  in  stripes  of  purple 
velvet,  trimmed  with  swan's-down — no  ruffles,  but  two 
rows  of  very  fine  point,  laid  flat  on  the  sleeves  instead, 
my  head  without  powder,  hair  turned  up,  in  a  bunch 
behind,  with  diamond  comb,  low  on  the  forehead,  in 
little  curls,  a  wreath  of  diamonds  with  some  purple 
velvet,  and  seven  flat  white  feathers.  This  dress,  some 
years  ago,  would  have  been  too  youthful  for  thirty- 
seven,  but  now  there  is  little  distinction  in  the  dress 
of  a  woman  of  sixty  and  a  girl  of  sixteen. 

"  The  Drawing-room  was  very  full,  and  the  crowd, 
getting  up  to  the  Queen  (who  stood  with  her  back  to 
the  wall,  instead  of  walking  about),  was  intolerable. 
Her  Majesty  received  me  most  graciously,  and  said  it 
was  a  long  time  since  she  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  me. 

"  I  have  not  been  at  Court  these  two  years.  Four  of 
the  Princesses  were  there,  Princess  Augusta  and  Elizabeth 
spoke  to  me  with  great  kindness,  enquiring  for  my 
children,  etc.  The  Princess  of  Wales  was  there,  really 
looking  handsome,  but  with  a  quantity  of  rouge.  The 
Prince  never  went  to  the  part  of  the  room  where  she  was. 
He  shook  me  very  cordially,  twice,  by  the  hand.  The 
Duke  of  Cambridge  also  spoke  very  civilly  to  me.  We 
returned  home  very  much  tired,  at  half  past  four.  I 
went  to  dine  with  the  Knox's,  Mr.  Calvert  to  the  House 
of  Commons.  My  sister  and  I  sat  for  a  couple  of  hours 
with  my  Mother,  and  then  went  to  an  assembly  at  Lady 

1  Thomas  Noel,  Viscount  Wentworth,  married  Mary,  daughter 
of  Robert,  Earl  of  Northington,  but  had  no  issue.     He  died  1815. 


34     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

Headfort's,1  where  there  were  a  great  many  fine  people. 
The  Prince  was  there,  and  spoke  to  me  for  some  time 
with  his  usual  cordiality.  I  invited  him  for  my  sister 
to  an  assembly  on  the  6th  of  March.  I  found  Mr.  Calvert 
returned  from  the  House.  It  had  been  expected  to  be 
a  very  late  day.  Mr.  Windham's  motion  on  the  Defence 
of  the  Nation,  but  it  unexpectedly  ended  about  ten 
o'clock.  Mr.  C.  voted  with  the  Opposition,  so  I  suppose 
the  Prince  will  ask  for  him  when  we  next  meet,  which 
he  did  not  last  night,  though  so  cordial  with  me,  and 
yesterday  at  Court,  he  only  nodded  to  him,  and  when 
I  was  at  Brighton,  he  used  to  profess  the  most  violent 
friendship  for  him.  '  Put  not  your  trust  in  Princes,' 
the  Bible  says,  and  a  very  true  saying  that  is,  for  I 
believe  there  is  no  sincerity  in  them. 

"  February  23. — I  dined  alone,  and  in  the  evening 
went  to  a  party  at  Lady  Neave's,2  where  I  played  at 
Casino,  with  Mrs.  Beadon,  the  Bishop  of  Gloucester's 
wife,  Lady  Francis  Radcliffe,  Mrs.  Malcolm,  and  a 
terrible,  disagreeable  Miss  Johnes — I  lost  £13. 

"  February  24. — There  are  great  apprehensions  of  there 
being  Yellow  Fever  among  the  Cadets  at  Woolwich,  and 
they  say  there  is  a  cordon  of  troops  drawn  round  it  to 
prevent  any  communication.  I  don't  feel  very  comfort- 
able about  it,  especially  as  I  am  a  little  superstitious, 
and  I  hear  Brothers  3  prophecied  some  years  ago  that 

1  Thomas,  2nd  Earl  of  Headfort,  married  1778  Mary,  only  daughter 
of  George  Quin,  Esq.,  of  Quinsborough,  Co.  Clare. 

2  Sir  Thomas  Neave,  Bart.,  of  Dagnam  Park,  Essex,  married  1791 
Frances,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  William  Digby,  Dean  of  Durham,  who 
died  1835. 

3  Richard  Brothers,  born  December  25th,  1757,  in  Newfoundland, 
sometime  a  lieutenant  in  the  Navy.  He  became  half  crazy  and  the 
idea  that  he  was  charged  with  a  mission  from  God  grew  upon  him. 
Towards  the  end  of  1794  he  began  to  print  his  interpretations  of  pro- 
phecy, his  first  production  being  A  Revealed  Knowledge  of  the  Prophecies 
and  Times  in  two  successive  books.  Before  this  he  had  prophesied 
the  violent  deaths  of  the  King  of  Sweden  and  Louis  XVI.  In  1795  he 
was  placed,  by  order  of  the  Lord  Chancellor,  in  a  private  asylum, 
under  Dr.  Simmons,  at  Fisher  House,  Islington.  He  was,  however, 
released  in  1806.  He  died  from  consumption  in  Upper  Baker  Street, 
January  25th,  1825.     He  left  a  widow  and  married  daughter. 


i8o5]    DEATH  OF  LADY  M.  MICKLETHWAITE    35 

there  would  be  a  dreadful  fever,  and  plague,  in  the  year 
1805  in  England,  which  would  sweep  away  thousands. 
To  be  sure,  Brothers  is  a  madman,  and  that  is  some 
comfort ! 

"  February  25. — I  hear  the  King  has  borrowed  a  great 
deal  of  plate  for  his  ball  at  Windsor  to-morrow,  and  from 
some  people  who  are  not  invited  there.  I  think  that  a 
comical  circumstance. 

"  February  27. — I  dined  last  night  as  did  Mr.  C.  in 
Park  Street,  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Walpole's,  where  I 
played  at  Casino,  and  won  £16. 

"  Poor  Lady  Waldegrave  1  has  lost  her  only  daughter, 
Lady  Maria  Micklethwaite,2  in  her  lying  in.  She  was 
a  very  amiable  young  woman.  I  hear  she  asked  those 
about  her  if  she  was  in  danger.  They  at  first  hesitated, 
but,  upon  her  urging  them  to  tell  her,  saying  she  had 
a  particular  reason  for  wishing  to  know,  they  owned 
she  was.  Upon  that,  she  requested  to  have  the  Sacra- 
ment administered  to  her,  and  expired  as  she  was  re- 
peating the  last  prayer.  What  a  glorious  death  !  I 
have  been  to  Church  to-day,  being  Ash  Wednesday, 
and  heard  a  most  excellent  sermon  preached  by  the  Bishop 
of  London.3    I  hope  I  shall  be  the  better  for  it. 

"  I  don't  think  Lady  Limerick  and  Mary  were  much 
delighted  with  the  ball  at  Windsor.  They  say  it  was 
magnificent,  but  so  crowded,  that  they  hardly  got  a 
seat  all  night.  I  think  it  was  a  mad  freak  of  the  King's 
having  eighty  Eton  boys  there.  Poor  things  !  They 
were  shut  up  in  a  hot  room  to  hear  the  Oratorio  of  Esther 
performed,  and  sent  away  without  even  being  allowed  a 
peep  at  the  ball-room. 

"  March  1. — Lady  Lucan  came  in  the  evening  to  see 
us.  She  told  us  that  the  King  did  not  ask  one  of  the 
foreign  ministers  to  the  ball,  except  Woronzow.    I  think 

1  George,  4th  Earl  of  Waldegrave,  married  1782  his  cousin,  Lady 
Elizabeth  Laura  Waldegrave,  daughter  of  James,  2nd  Earl. 

2  Lady  Maria  Waldegrave  married  Nathaniel  Micklethwaite  of 
Taverham  Hall,  Norfolk,  and  died  February  20th,  1805,  leaving  a  son. 

3  Bishop  Porteous. 


36     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

this  was  a  most  impolitic  action,  especially  at  the  time 
when  it  is  so  much  our  wish  and  interest  to  conciliate 
the  foreign  powers.  Mr.  C.  and  I  went,  at  ten  o'clock 
to  Lady  Salisbury's.1  It  was  very  full.  I  played  one 
rubber  at  Casino,  and  won  £3. 

"The  Prince  of  Wales,  Dukes  of  Cumberland,  Cambridge, 
and  Kent  were  there.  I  never  saw  the  latter  before — 
he  is  of  gigantic  stature,  a  very  bad  likeness  of  the  Prince 
of  Wales,  and  looks  out  of  health.  The  Prince  and  Duke 
of  Cambridge  both  spoke  to  me  with  great  cordiality. 
The  Duke  of  Orleans,  Beaujolais,  and  the  Duke  de  Berri, 
were  also  there.  I  got  acquainted  with  Mr.  Brand, 
and  think  him  a  very  pleasing  gentleman-like  man.  Mr. 
C.  introduced  him  to  me.  We  laughed  about  the  report 
of  my  having  canvassed  for  him.  He  had  heard  it,  but 
said  he  knew  I  had  not,  but  hoped  I  would  another 
time. 

"  March  2. — Mr.  Brand  called  on  me  yesterday  morn- 
ing. We  had  a  long  discussion  on  politics,  but  I  don't 
approve  of  his  political  sentiments,  and  I  am  much  afraid 
he  has  not  much  religion,  from  some  expressions  he 
dropped,  when  we  talked  of  the  question  of  Catholic 
Emancipation.  Lord  Marsham  2  called  in  soon  after 
he  went.  He  has  a  good  benevolent  countenance, 
without  much  animation,  but  is  too  fat  for  a  young 
man. 

"  March  3. — I  dined  at  Lord  Kingston's.3  Lady 
Kingston  is  a  pretty,  pleasing  little  woman.  I  met 
Prince  William  of  Gloucester,  a  thin  slim  man,  very  well 
caricatured,  in  the  shops,  under  the  denomination  of  a 
slice  of  Gloucester  cheese.    I  always  think  he  takes  more 

1  James,  7th  Earl  of  Salisbury,  married  1773  Mary  Amelia,  daughter 
of  Wills,  1st  Marquis  of  Downshire.  She  was  burnt  to  death  with  the 
west  wing  of  Hatfield  House,  1835. 

2  Charles  Marsham,  Viscount  Marsham,  and  eldest  son  of  the 
1st  Earl  of  Romney.  He  was  born  1775.  The  family  derives  its  name 
from  the  village  of  Marsham  in  Norfolk,  where  it  held  a  high  station 
as  far  back  as  the  twelfth  century. 

3  George,  3rd  Earl  of  Kingston,  born  1771,  married  1794  Helena, 
only  daughter  of  Stephen,  1st  Earl  of  Mount  Cashel. 


i8o5]  CHAPEL  ROYAL  37 

consequence  on  himself  than  the  other  Princes  of  the 
Blood,  and  from  his  Mother  being  a  subject  and  a  natural 
child,  I  look  upon  him  as  very  trumpery  Royalty. 

"  March  4. — I  went  to  Chapel  Royal  yesterday,  and 
heard  a  sermon  badly  delivered,  by  the  Dean  of  Christ- 
church,  Dr.  Jackson.  He  is  reckoned  a  very  sensible 
man.  At  half  past  nine,  I  went  for  half  an  hour  to  sit 
with  Lady  Mildmay.  The  two  Miss  Grimstons,  or  as  I 
call  them,  the  old  Grims,  to  distinguish  them  from  their 
nieces,  were  there.  They  are  good-natured,  good  sort  of 
old  maids. 

"  Lord  Petre's  daughter1  has  run  away  with  her  tutor. 
I  don't  believe  they  are  found  yet.  She  is  just  eighteen. 
What  a  disgraceful  thing  !  Oh,  my  dear  girls  !  May  you 
never  do  a  thing  of  that  sort  !  I  believe  it  would  break 
my  poor  heart. 

"  March  5. — I  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's, 
where  there  was  a  small  party.  The  Prince  was  there, 
and  I  asked  him  to  come  to  me  Thursday,  the  fourteenth, 
when  I  am  to  have  an  assembly.  He  told  me  he  should 
make  it  a  point  to  come  to  it. 

"  March  7. — The  House  of  Commons  sat  until  past 
four  in  the  morning  ;  Mr.  Sheridan's  motion.  Mr.  C. 
voted  with  Opposition.  He  says  Mr.  Sheridan  gave  Pitt 
a  fine  trimming.  I  have  had  visits  from  Lord  Grimston,2 
and  Lady  Hinchinbrook.3  She  is  a  sweet,  pretty,  pleasing 
young  woman.  She  was  educated  at  Mrs.  Devis'.  How 
delighted  I  shall  be  if  my  Isabella  has  such  manners  as 
she  has  ! 

"  There  is  very  bad  news  to-day,  that  the  French  have 
taken  our  Smyrna  fleet  of  merchantmen,  worth  £700,000. 

"  March  12. — I  visited,  with  my  sister,  the  Archbishop 


1  Mary,  daughter  of  Robert  Edward,  ioth  Baron  Petre,  of  Thornden 
Hall,  Essex,  married  Mr.  Stephen  Phillips,  her  drawing-master. 

2  James,  3rd  Viscount  Grimston,  born  1747,  succeeded  his  father 
1773. 

3  George  John  Montagu,  Lord  Hinchinbrooke,  born  1773,  married 
1804  Louise,  daughter  of  Armar,  1st  Earl  of  Belmore,  and  succeeded 
his  father  18 14  as  6th  Earl  of  Sandwich. 


38      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

of  Dublin,1  and  then  the  Dowager  Duchess  of  Rutland.2 
The  Duchess  is  still  the  finest  woman  of  her  age,  and  time 
does  not  alter  her  as  fast  as  most  people.  I  remember 
her  twenty  years  ago  the  most  beautiful  creature  I  ever 
beheld.  She  is  uncommonly  pleasing,  but  her  great  beauty 
has  been  her  bane.  It  led  her  into  many,  many  faults  (I 
am  afraid  indiscretions  is  too  mild  a  word),  and  I  am 
much  mistaken  now  if  feeling  that  it  must  be  on  the 
wane  is  not  a  source  of  misery  to  her.  She  is  a  very  good 
mother,  and,  indeed,  one  cannot  help  exclaiming,  with 
the  poet,  '  If  to  her  share  some  female  errors  fall,  look 
in  her  face,  and  you'll  forget  them  all.' 

"  March  13. — I  dined  at  home,  and  alone  yesterday, 
and  went  at  night  to  Lady  Bulkeley's.3  I  played  at 
Casino  with  Lady  Harcourt,  Lady  Albemarle,4  Lady 
Tancred,  and  Mrs.  Walpole,  and  won  £14. 

"  March  14. — Sir  Walter  Rawlinson,  who  is  married 
to  an  aunt  of  Mr.  Calvert's,  died  suddenly  this  morning — 
he  has  left  his  wife  everything.  We  were  in  great  trouble 
at  the  idea  of  my  having  an  assembly  to-morrow,  and 
wished  to  put  it  off,  but  found  it  impossible  from  the 
numbers  I  have  asked,  and  the  shortness  of  the  notice. 
Mr.  C.  don't  mean  to  appear. 

"  March  15. — The  first  of  my  company  came  before 
nine.  I  had  a  most  brilliant  assembly  of  fine  people,  and 
my  house  and  furniture  extravagantly  admired.  The 
Duke  of  Cambridge,5  and  Prince  William  of  Gloucester, 
were  here,  and  told  me  they  meant  to  come  again  on 
the  28th. 

1  Charles  Agar,  ist  Earl  of  Normanton,  so  created  1806.  Bishop 
of  Cloyne  1768,  Archbishop  of  Cashell  1771,  and  in  1801  consecrated 
Archbishop  of  Dublin  and  Primate  of  Ireland.  He  married  in  1776 
Jane,  eldest  daughter  of  William  Benson  of  Co.  Down. 

2  Charles,  4th  Duke  of  Rutland,  K.G.,  born  1754,  married  1775 
Mary  Isabella,  youngest  daughter  of  the  4th  Duke  of  Beaufort.  She 
died  183 1.  3  Emma,  Viscountess  Dowager  Bulkeley. 

4  William  Charles  Keppel,  4th  Earl  of  Albemarle,  born  1772, 
married  1792  the  Hon.  Elizabeth  Southwell,  daughter  of  Edward, 
Lord  de  Clifford. 

5  H.R.H.  Prince  Adolphus  Frederick,  seventh  son  of  King  George 
III,  born  1774;   died  1850. 


i8o5]  A  SCOTCH  PARTY  39 

"  March  16. — I  dined  at  Lord  Cassilis.  The  Duchess 
of  Gordon1  was  there,  uncommonly  agreeable,  and  enter- 
taining. She  took  a  prodigious  fancy  to  Mr.  Calvert. 
She  told  me  she  thought  him  the  handsomest  man  she 
ever  saw.  Mr.  C.  and  I  stayed  after  all  were  gone,  and 
supped  with  Lord  and  Lady  Cassilis.  They  are  a  very 
pleasing,  hospitable  couple,  and  really  uncommonly  kind 
to  us. 

"  March  20th. — Mr.  Butler  has  been  with  me  this 
morning.  The  Governors'  votes  about  choosing  a  master 
for  Harrow  School  are  divided.  The  casting  vote  lies 
with  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  I  hope  Mr.  Butler 
may  get  it. 

"  Willy  is  far  from  well  to-day.  I  think  him  worse 
and  am  quite  miserable. 

"  March  26th. — I  dined  with  Lady  Cassilis.  The  com- 
pany were  Lord  Montgomerie,  Lord  Douglas,  and  Lord 
Archibald  Hamilton  (sons  to  the  Duke  of  Hamilton),  Sir 
David  Baird,2  and  Mr.  Harry  Erskine  ;  the  only  woman, 
Lady  Jane  Montgomerie,3  daughter  to  Lord  Eglinton,  a 
good  humoured  Scottish  lassie.  Lord  Douglas4  has  lived 
a  great  deal  abroad,  and  affects  foreign  manners.  He 
is  well-looking,  but  a  great  coxcomb.  He  was  dressed  in 
a  long  great-coat,  boots  (which  he  apologised  for),  the 
House  of  Commons  having  detained  him,  and  rings  on 
five  fingers.  Lord  Archibald  thinks  himself  irresistible. 
/  think  him  tout  au  contraire.  Sir  David  Baird,  who  is 
uncle  to  Lady  Cassilis,  seems  a  very  pleasing,  worthy 
man.    It  was  he  who  took  Seringapatam.5 

1  Jean  Maxwell,  Duchess  of  Gordon,  married  in  1767,  and  died  in 
1812. 

*  Sir  David  Baird,  k.c.b.,  born  1757,  entered  the  Army  at  the  age 
of  fifteen,  and  achieved  high  military  fame.  He  was  created  a  Baronet 
1809. 

3  She  married  in  1828  Archibald  Hamilton  of  Carcluie. 

4  Alexander,  afterwards  10th  Duke  of  Hamilton  and  7th  Duke  of 
Brandon,  was  born  1767.  He  married  18 10  Susan  Euphemia,  daughter 
and  co-heiress  of  the  late  William  Beckford  of  Fonthill  Abbey,  Wilts, 
and  died  1852. 

5  Corunna  was  the  last  of  Sir  David  Baird's  battles.  He-  could  not 
serve  under  Wellington,  who  was  his  junior,  and  he  never  again  com- 


40     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

"  March  2jth. — Willy  was  not  so  well,  and  finding  my 
spirits  unequal  to  the  idea  of  an  assembly,  I  have  deter- 
mined to  put  off  mine  for  tomorrow.  I  have  had  cards 
printed,  '  Mrs.  Calvert  is  prevented  receiving  company 
tomorrow  by  the  indisposition  of  one  of  her  children,' 
and  I  have  written  respectful  notes  to  the  Prince  of 
Wales,  Duke  of  Cambridge,  and  Prince  William  of 
Gloucester. 

"  March  28th. — Princess  Sophia  of  Gloucester1  has 
done  me  the  honour  of  sending  to  enquire  how  Willy  is. 

"  March  29th. — Willy  continued  to  mend,  though 
slowly.  My  knocker  was  never  quiet  all  yesterday,  with 
enquiries  after  him. 

"  April  4th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  Lady  Limerick's 
Assembly,  and  stayed  till  one.  Willy  is,  thank  God, 
charmingly.  The  Duke  of  Cambridge,  and  Prince  William 
were  very  civil  about  him.  Mr.  Butler  is  chosen  Master 
of  Harrow  School. 

"  April  8th. — Mr.  Calvert  did  not  get  home  from  the 
House  of  Commons  till  a  quarter  before  six.  It  was 
Mr.  Whitbread's  motion,  relative  to  Lord  Melville,2  who 
is  accused  of  having  embezzled  the  public  money.  The 
House  divided  216  for  him,  and  216  against  him.  The 
casting  vote  therefore  remained  with  the  Speaker,  who 
gave  it  against  Lord  Melville.  He  will,  of  course,  be  no 
longer  in  the  Admiralty.  The  Prince  of  Wales  told  Mr. 
Calvert  he  wished  it  had  been  him  instead  of  Mr.  Whit- 
bread  who  had  brought  forward  the  motion,  as  coming 
from  such  an  independent  man  it  would  have  had  still 
more  effect. 

manded  an  army  in  the  field.  He  was  perhaps  not  a  very  great  General, 
but  he  certainly  was  a  most  gallant  soldier.  There  was  about  him  a 
chivalry  which  made  the  old  pun  "  Not  Baird  but  Bayard  "  applicable 
to  him. 

1  Sophia  Matilda,  only  daughter  of  the  ist  Duke  of  Gloucester 
and  Maria,  Countess  of  Waldegrave,  was  born  1773,  died  1844. 

2  Henry  Dundas,  born  1742,  youngest  son  of  Robert  Dundas  of 
Arniston,  elevated  to  the  Peerage  1 802  as  Baron  Duneira,  and  Viscount 
Melville.  He  was  impeached  by  the  House  of  Commons,  and  after  a 
trial  by  his  peers  in  Westminster  Hall  adjudged  Not  Guilty.  He  died 
May  29th,  181 1. 


i8o5]  INSTALLATION  AT  WINDSOR  41 

"  April  nth. — I  am  going  to  Islington  Spa  to  drink 
the  waters. 

"  April  21st. — We  dined  in  Park  Street  yesterday  ;  in 
the  evening  came  home  and  dressed,  and  had  a  party  at 
home,  about  one  hundred  people.  I  gave  the  Company 
sandwiches,  wine  and  water,  and  they  stayed  till  be- 
tween one  and  two.1 

"  April  23rd. — I  went  last  night  to  Lady  Affleck's,2 
where  there  was  a  card  party  ;  I  played  at  Casino,  with 
Lady  Albemarle,  Mrs.  Walpole,  and  Lady  Tancred,  and 
won  £y.  I  am  tired  to  death  hearing  of  the  installation. 
It  takes  place  today  at  Windsor.  There  is  to  be  a 
Drawingroom  and  Ball  at  the  Castle  in  the  evening — to- 
morrow, I  believe,  a  review,  and  on  Thursday  a  break- 
fast, and  Fete  Champetre,  at  Frogmore.  It  will  be  a 
most  expensive  business,  and  I  declare  in  these  times 
quite  shocking.  The  King  must  be  very  mad,  or  he 
would  not  enter  into  such  extravagant  plans. 

"  April  24th. — The  papers  today  are  entirely  filled 
with  accounts  of  the  Installation. 

"  April  28th. — Lord  Buckinghamshire3  and  Lord  Sid- 
mouth4  have  resigned  their  offices.  Everybody  is  sur- 
prised, and  do  not  know  what  this  portends. 

" April  29th. — I  read  Milton's  '  Paradise  Lost '  all  the 
evening.    I  never  felt  a  colder  day. 

"  April  30th. — Lord  Sidmouth  and  Lord  Buckingham- 
shire are  reconciled  to  Mr.  Pitt.  I  think  they  were  very 
foolish  to  publish  their  quarrel. 

"  May  2nd. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  with  Colonel  and  Mrs. 
Hamilton  ;5  he  is  a  cousin  of  mine.  They  are  an  elderly, 
worthy  couple,  but  talk  rather  too  much. 

1  Entertaining  must  have  been  less  costly  than  nowadays,  if  people 
were  satisfied  with  such  simple  fare  ! 

2  Sir  Edmund  Affleck,  born  1735,  a  gallant  naval  officer,  married 
first  Esther,  daughter  of  John  Ruth,  Esq.,  secondly  Mary,  widow  of 
W.  Smythies,  Esq. 

3  Robert,  4th  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  born  1760. 

4  Henry  Addington,  Esq.,  born  1757,  late  Speaker  of  the  House 
of  Commons  1789,  and  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  1801,  created 
Viscount  Sidmouth  1805. 

6  Mrs.  Hamilton  was  a  Miss  Ewart. 


42     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

"  May  $th. — Mr.  C.  and  Felix  went  down  to  Hunsdon 
in  the  buggy  yesterday,  to  stay  till  Tuesday.  Lady 
Cassilis  called  on  me  in  the  morning,  as  did  the  Dowager 
Duchess  of  Rutland,  looking,  though  fifty  years  old,  still 
most  divinely  handsome.  At  night  I  went  to  the  Duchess 
of  Bolton's,1  played  Casino,  and  won  £6.  Lord  Cranley 
told  me  a  piece  of  wit  of  Mr.  Jekyll's.  The  King  had  a 
Baron  of  Beef,  roasted  at  Windsor,  on  the  day  that  Lord 
Melville  was  impeached  in  the  House  of  Commons.  Mr. 
Jekyll  made  the  following  lines  on  it : 

'"  Dukes,  marquises,  earls,  look  about  you, 
Lest  roasting  be  carried  too  far  on. 
There's  Parliament  roasting  a  Viscount, 
And  his  Majesty  roasting  a  Baron.' 

"  There  are  great  apprehensions  about  the  destination 
of  the  Toulon  fleet ;  it  is  a  most  anxious  time  indeed. 

"  May  yth. — Lord  Melville  erased  from  the  Privy 
Council.  I  called  for  Isabella,  and  left  her  to  dine  in 
Grosvenor  Street,  as  she  was  to  go  to  the  Play  with  her 
Aunt  Knox,  to  see  the  King  and  Queen.  Mr.  C.  and  I 
went  to  dine  at  Lady  Clare's.2  I  played  at  Casino,  and 
won  £16.  Lady  C.  has  been  a  beautiful  woman.  She  is 
now  about  forty,  and,  with  the  help  of  a  quantity  of 
rouge,  has  great  remains  of  beauty.  She  has  very  brilliant 
black  eyes,  which  do  not,  I  think,  always  glance  modest 
looks.  She  is  widow  of  Lord  C.  and  during  his  lifetime 
her  conduct  was  very  far  from  correct,  but  as  he  chose 
to  be  blind,  she  continued  to  be  received  in  Company. 
Since  his  death,  she  has  been  more  circumspect,  and 
seems  to  wish  to  establish  her  character — at  the  same 
time,  there  is  a  freedom  in  her  conversation,  and,  had  I  a 
daughter,  grown  up,  and  going  about  with  me,  I  should 
have  declined  my  Lady  C.'s  invitation  for  yesterday. 

1  Catherine,  daughter  of  Robert  Lowther  and  sister  of  James, 
Earl  of  Lonsdale;  she  married  April  8th,  1765,  Harry,  6th  and  last 
Duke  of  Bolton. 

2  Anne,  daughter  of  Richard  Chapel  Whaley,  of  Whaley  Abbey,  Co. 
Wicklow.     She  became  a  widow  in  1802. 


i8o5]  LADY  ANNE  BARNARD  43 

She  is  certainly  clever,  but  has  a  malicious  tongue,  and 
I  own  I  should  be  sorry  to  offend  her.  She  yesterday 
took  away  the  character  of  a  young  woman,  who,  I 
always  supposed,  and  do  still  suppose,  to  be  virtuous. 
Her  two  boys  are  at  Harrow,  and  great  friends  of  Felix's. 

"  May  nth. — I  went  to  dine  in  Park  Street,  and  dressed 
in  the  evening,  and  went  to  a  very  fine  Assembly  at  the 
Dowager  Duchess  of  Rutland's.  I  never  saw  anything 
look  so  lovely  as  she  did — no-one  would  have  supposed 
she  was  grandmother  to  a  little  boy  of  near  six  years 
old,  who  was  running  about  the  room.  She  was  most 
splendidly  dressed,  a  gold  coronet  on  her  head,  and  a 
profusion  of  diamonds — she  really  looked  like  the  Queen 
of  the  Company. 

"  May  12th. — I  dined  at  my  sister's  ;  Lady  Hard- 
wicke,1  Mr.  Barnard  and  Lady  Anne  Barnard,2  Lord  and 
Lady  Henry  Stuart,  Lord  Enniskillen,  and  Sir  Thomas 
Pechill  dined  there.  Lady  Hardwicke  is  a  great  favourite 
of  mine  ;  her  husband  is,  at  present,  Lord  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland.  Lady  Anne  Barnard  is  her  sister,  and  a  very 
agreeable  woman.  Lord  Henry  Stuart3  is  a  younger  son 
of  Lord  Bute's.  He  is  going  shortly,  as  Ambassador  to 
Stuttgart.  Lady  Henry  is  a  most  amiable  woman.  She 
was  Lady  Gertrude  Villiers,  only  daughter  and  heiress  to 
Lord  Grandison,  and  fell  in  love  with  Lord  Henry,  who 
is  a  very  amiable  young  man,  with  very  little  fortune.  I 
think  she  very  wisely  bestowed  herself  and  her  large 
fortune  on  him,  and  they  seem  a  very  happy  couple. 
Mr.  C.  is  just  gone  to  Tittenhanger  to  pay  Mr.  Yorke  a 
visit.  He  means  to  return  tomorrow  for  the  debate  in 
the  House  of  Commons  on  the  Catholic  business. 

"  May  13th. — The  House  sat  till  two  this  morning, 
and  then  adjourned.     The  Division,  it  is  thought,  will 


1  Philip  Yorke,   3rd  Earl  of  Hardwicke,  born   1757,  married   1782 
Elizabeth,  daughter  of  James,  5th  Earl  of  Balcarres.     She  died  1858. 

2  Lady  Anne  Barnard  was  well  known  as  the  author  of  the  song 
"  Auld  Robin  Gray." 

3  Lord   Henry   Stuart,    born    1777,   married    1803   Lady  Gertrude 
Villiers,  and  died  1809. 


44     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

not  take  place  till  tomorrow.  Mr.  Grattan,  Mr.  Calvert 
says,  made  the  most  eloquent  speech  he  ever  heard. 
He  paid  my  Father  a  compliment,  saying  that  Lord 
Pery  (referring  to  his  formerly  having  favoured  the 
Roman  Catholics)  was  the  wisest  man  Ireland  ever  pos- 
sessed. 

"  May  15th. — Mr.  Calvert  did  not  come  home  till  be- 
tween five  and  six.  The  Roman  Catholic  question  was 
negatived,  the  numbers  for  it  124,  against  it  336. 

"  May  jyth. — I  went  to  a  great  Assembly  at  Lady 
Derby's1 — a  very  pleasing  woman,  and  still  very  hand- 
some. She  was  a  famous  actress,  Miss  Farren,  but  has 
always  conducted  herself  remarkably  well,  and  every- 
body rejoiced  at  her  elevation. 

"  May  21st. — The  papers  announce  today  that  Madame 
Jerome  Bonaparte2  is  landed  at  Dover.  The  Monster,  her 
brother-in-law,  would  not  let  her  come  to  France,  and 
they  say,  has  put  Jerome  in  prison,  and  all  for  marrying 
this  pretty  American.  I  should  like  to  see  her.  The 
papers  describe  her  as  very  handsome. 

"  May  22nd, — I  had  a  visit  from  Colonel  Vereker,3  a 
handsome,  vulgar,  forward  Irishman.  He  is  Member 
for  Limerick,  and  Lord  Limerick's  greatest  enemy.  I 
think  it  was  rather  impudent  of  him  coming  to  see  me, 
as  I  really  scarcely  know  him.  I  believe  I  looked  very 
cool  at  him,  for  he  seemed  confused,  and  said,  '  I  believe, 
Mrs.  Calvert,  you  don't  know  me.'  '  Perfectly,  Sir — 
Colonel  Vereker,'  was  my  dry  answer. 

1  Edward,  12th  Earl  of  Derby,  born  1752,  married  (as  his  second 
wife)  Miss  Eliza  Farren,  a  celebrated  actress,  who  died  1829.  Walpole 
pronounces  her  "the  most  perfect  actress"  he  had  ever  seen. 

2  Miss  Betsy  Paterson  of  Baltimore. 

3  The  Rt.  Hon.  Charles  Vereker,  afterwards  2nd  Viscount  Gort, 
born  1768,  whose  gallant  defeat  of  the  French  forces  under  Gen. 
Humbert,  at  Killala  Bay,  near  Coloony,  Co.  Sligo,  September  5th, 
1798,  was  rewarded  by  the  thanks  of  both  Houses  of  Parliament, 
and  by  a  grant  of  supporters,  and  other  honourable  augmentations 
to  his  family  arms.  He  was  Colonel  of  the  Limerick  Militia,  Constable 
of  the  Castle  of  Limerick,  M.P.  for  that  city  from  1790  to  18 17,  in 
which  year  he  succeeded  his  uncle  as  2nd  Viscount.  He  became  a 
representative  peer  for  Ireland,  and  died  November  2nd,   1842. 


i8oS]  LADY  CAROLINE  LAMB  45 

"  May  25th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  an  Assembly  at  the 
Marchioness  of  Hertford's,1  the  Prince  and  all  the  beau 
monde  there — full  and  hot,  and  I  was  not  sorry  to  get 
home  ;  I  am  grown  very  lazy  about  going  out. 

"  May  28th. — I  sent  for  Dr.  Clarke  yesterday,  and  he 
has  ordered  me  to  be  bled,  which  I  have  just  been,  by 
Mr.  Chilvers. 

"  Yesterday  I  went  at  eleven  o'clock,  to  a  ball  at 
Lady  Spencer's.2  It  was  very  splendid.  Lady  Sarah,3 
her  eldest  daughter,  is  just  come  out.  She  is  not  hand- 
some, but  has  an  interesting,  pleasing  countenance,  a 
good  figure  and  sweet,  unaffected  manners.  I  think  her 
a  charming  girl.  Lord  Althorp  the  eldest  son,  is  just 
grown  up.  He  is  not  handsome,  and  don't  look  like  a 
man  of  fashion,  but  he  seems  very  good-humoured  and 
pleasing. 

"  May  29th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  tete-a-tete.  In  the 
evening,  I  went  to  Lady  Campbell's,  where  I  played  at 
Casino  with  Lady  Douglas,  Mrs.  Butler,  and  Mrs.  Wal- 
pole — won  £iy. 

"  Lord  Cowper4  is  to  be  married  directly  to  Miss  Lamb, 
Lord  Melbourne's  daughter,  and  Mr.  Lamb  to  Lady 
Caroline  Ponsonby.  There  is  a  very  odd  story  circulated 
in  the  fashionable  world,  which  is  that  Mr.  Cowper,  Lord 
Cowper's  brother,  is  going  to  unlaw  him,  but  I  believe 
this  story  is  a  fabrication  of  some  ill-natured  person,  and 
indeed,  I  hear,  Mr.  Cowper  goes  about  contradicting  it." 

Lady  Caroline  Lamb,  one  of  the  most  remarkable 
figures  of  the  early  part  of  the  last  century,  was  born  in 
1785.  The  eldest  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Bessborough, 
she  married  in  1805  the  Hon.  William  Lamb,  afterwards 

1  Isabella  Anne  Ingram,  second  wife  of  the  2nd  Marquess  of  Hert- 
ford, who  died  in  1822. 

2  George  John,  2nd  Earl  Spencer,  k.g.,  married  1781  Lavinia, 
eldest  daughter  of  Charles,  1st  Earl  of  Lucan.    She  died  1831. 

3  Lady  Sarah  Spencer,  married  18 13  William,  3rd  Lord  Lyttelton  ; 
died  1870. 

4  Peter  Leopold,  5th  Earl  Cowper,  f.r.s.,  born  1778,  married  1805 
Anne,  daughter  of  the  1st  Viscount  Melbourne. 


46     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY     [1805 

Viscount  Melbourne.1  Lady  Caroline  was  small,  fair  and 
vivacious  ;  clever,  impulsive,  generous  ;  and  now  and 
then  excitable  to  a  degree  that  bordered  on  insanity. 
She  was  passionately  infatuated  with  Byron.  After  their 
first  introduction  she  described  him  in  her  Diary  as  a 
man  who  was  "  mad,  bad,  and  dangerous  to  know/' 
Her  novel  Glenarvon  (the  hero  of  which  was  supposed  to 
represent  the  poet)  was  written  in  the  middle  of  the 
night  and  published  anonymously  in  1816,  after  their 
final  rupture.  A  dramatic  incident  took  place  when 
Lady  Caroline  accidentally  met  Lord  Byron's  funeral 
on  its  way  to  Newstead.  Partly  owing  to  the  shock  of 
this  encounter,  her  mind  gave  way,  and  the  following 
year  (1825)  she  was  separated  from  her  husband.  She 
died  in  1828,  aged  forty-two,  and  was  buried  at  Brocket. 

"  June  yd. — This  is  the  King's  birthday,  and  I  think 
I  never  saw  such  a  crowd.  This  street  is  a  continued  line 
of  carriages,  and  I  don't  envy  my  friends  whom  I  see 
going  by. 

"  June  13th. — Lord  Melville  is  not  impeached,  but  is 
to  be  tried  by  common  law. 

"  June  14th. — Mrs.  Plumer2  visited  me.  She  brought 
a  beautiful  little  girl  with  her  of  six  years  old  ;  her  niece,3 
daughter  to  Lady  Cecil  Copley,  Lord  Abercorn's  divorced 
wife.4 

1  William  Lamb  (i  779-1 848),  afterwards  Viscount  Melbourne, 
Prime  Minister.  In  after  life  he  formed  a  connection  with  the  Hon. 
Mrs.  Norton,  which  in  1836  ended  in  divorce  proceedings,  and  caused 
much  scandal,  although  nothing  was  proved  against  them. 

2  Jane  Hamilton,  born  February  26th,  1768,  seventh  daughter 
of  the  Rev.  the  Hon.  George  Hamilton,  Canon  of  Windsor,  son  of 
the  7th  Earl  of  Abercorn.  She  married  first  in  1791  William  Plumer, 
m.p.,  secondly  in  1825  Commander  Richard  John  Lewin,  r.n.,  and 
thirdly  in  1828  Robert  Plumer  Ward.     She  died  March  26th,  1831. 

3  Lady  Cecil  Frances  Hamilton,  born  July  19th,  1795,  married 
February  16th,  18 16,  William,  4th  Earl  of  Wicklow,  k.p.  She  died 
July  7th,  i860. 

4  Lady  Cecil,  eighth  daughter  of  the  Rev.  and  Hon.  George  Hamilton. 
She  was  born  March  15th,  1770,  advanced  to  the  rank  of  an  Earl's 


i&>5]  MRS.  CALVERT  PLAYS  CASINO  47 

"  June  15th. — I  have  just  had  Mr.  Blake,  the  famous 
hair-cutter,  to  make  a  smart  crop  of  me.  He  is  a  great 
curiosity  in  his  way,  and  the  greatest  coxcomb  imaginable. 
I  really  do  not  look  within  ten  years  as  old  as  I  am, 
with  my  hair  cut  short. 

"  June  16th. — People  came  to  my  Mother's  last  night 
— too  many  to  enumerate.  We  all  supped  there.  There 
was  a  shameful  riot  at  the  Opera  House  on  Saturday, 
occasioned  by  the  curtain  being  dropped  before  the  per- 
formance was  concluded.  The  gentlemen  broke  the 
lustres,  scenes,  musical  instruments  etc.,  to  the  tune  of 
£1,500.    I  hope  sincerely  they  may  be  punished. 

"  June  20th. — I  dined  in  Park  Street,  my  sister  and 
Lady  Staples  *  there.  I  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Beadon's, 
where  I  played  at  Casino,  with  Mrs.  Walpole,  Mrs. 
Cussans,  and  Miss  Jeffries.  A  nasty  cross  thing  Miss 
Jeffries  is — I  declare  I  would  rather  not  touch  a  card 
again  than  be  at  her  party.  I  dare  say  she  don't  like 
me  a  bit  better,  for  when  she  spoke  very  gruffly  to  me 
for  some  card  I  had  played  which  she  did  not  approve  of, 
I  very  coolly  answered,  '  I  should  do  exactly  the  same 
were  I  to  play  it  over  again.'  She  is  toady  to  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert,  and  her  bosom  friend,  so  thinks  herself,  in 
consequence  a  very  great  personage.  I  lost  £7.  If  I  go 
on  in  this  way,  I  shall  soon  cut  cards,  for  I  don't  choose 
to  lose  my  money.  I  went  late  to  an  Assembly  at  Mrs. 
Thompson's  in  Grosvenor  Square.  She  is  a  good-hum- 
oured, vulgar  woman  of  low  extraction,  but  has  wound 
herself  into  the  first  company  by  balls,  concerts,  suppers, 
etc.,  and  nobody's  house  is  more  fashionably  attended. 
I  had  intended  to  have  gone  also  to  Marlborough  House, 
but  was  afraid  of  the  fatigue. 

"  June  24th. — Mrs.  Hamilton  came  in  the  evening. 
She  says   Lady  Catherine   Hamilton,   Lord  Abercorn's 

daughter  by  sign  manual  October  27th,  1789,  married  on  March  4th, 
1792  (as  his  second  wife)  John  James,  1st  Marquess  of  Abercorn,  k.g., 
who  divorced  her  by  Act  of  Parliament  April,  1799.  She  remarried 
JVtay  21st,  1799,  Col.  Sir  Joseph  Copley,  Bart.,  and  died  June  19th,  1891. 
1  Sister  to  Lady  Pery. 


48      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

daughter,1  is  certainly  to  be  married  to  Lord  Aber- 
deen. 

"  June  2$th. — Lord  Grantham2  has  proposed  for  Lady 
Henrietta  Cole.  He  will  have  an  immense  fortune.  She 
is  just  twenty-one,  very  tall,  a  good  figure  on  a  large 
scale,  and  a  pleasing  face,  clean,  fresh  and  wholesome. 
He  proposed  at  Lady  Salisbury's  concert  on  Monday 
night. 

"  June  26th. — The  House  of  Commons  sat  till  between 
two  and  three. 

"  It  is  now  settled  that  Lord  Melville  is  to  be  impeached, 
instead  of  being  tried  by  common  law,  as  had  been  settled 
by  the  House. 

"  July  3?d. — I  went  in  the  evening  to  Mrs.  Butler's, 
played  at  Casino,  and  won  £15.  I  don't  mean  to  go  any 
more  into  the  gay  world  this  year,  so  I  close  my  card 
account.  I  am  a  winner  of  £11,  though  I  can  scarcely 
call  myself  that,  as  my  cards  have  cost  me  between  seven 
and  eight  pounds. 

"  Hunsdon,  July  yth. — Isabella  and  I  left  Town  yester- 
day, at  three  o'clock  having  dined  at  two.  We  drank 
tea  while  the  horses  rested  at  Waltham  Cross,  and  arrived 
here  about  eight  o'clock.  This  is  an  indifferent  day,  and 
I  mean  to  keep  quietly  to  my  sofa,  as  I  am  a  good  deal 
tired  coming  down  here. 

"  Juh  8tfA. — I  spent  yesterday  reading  and  playing 
with  my  Darlings.  I  feel  delighted  to  be  settled  quietly 
in  the  country. 

"  July  14th. — My  dear  Mother  arrived  from  Town 
yesterday  to  spend  a  few  days  with  me — you  may  imagine 
how  rejoiced  I  am  to  have  her  with  me. 

"  July  iSth. — My  Mother  and  I  visited  Mrs.  Jocelyn. 
She  is  a  melancholy  looking  woman,  the  old  Captain 
deaf,  and  tiresome,  and  the  two  daughters  bred  at  a 

1  By  his  first  marriage  to  Catherine,  daughter  of  Sir  Joseph  Copley, 
Bart. 

2  Thomas  Philip,  Lord  Grantham,  born  1781,  succeeded  his  aunt 
as  Earlde  Grey,  married  1805  Lady  Henrietta  Cole,  youngest  daughter 
of  the  1st  Earl  of  Enniskillen. 


i8o5]  A  BALL  AT  HATFIELD  49 

Queen  Square  boarding-school,  think  themselves  the  pink 
of  gentility,  whilst  the  walls  are  covered  with  their  daubs 
of  paintings. 

"  /w/y  20th. — A  letter  this  morning  from  London,  to 
say  my  father  insists  on  my  mother  coming  to  London. 
He  will  not  do  without  her  any  longer.  I  cannot  ex- 
press how  grieved  I  am. 

"  July  29th. — Mr.  C.  went  yesterday  to  Hatfield  House. 
He  was  to  sleep  there.  He  stays  for  the  ball,  and  I  ex- 
pect him  tonight. 

"  July  30th. — Mr.  C.  came  home  at  two  this  morning. 
There  was  a  very  large  party  at  Hatfield,  the  brides, 
Lord  and  Lady  Cowper1  (she  was  Miss  Lamb,  Lord  Mel- 
bourne's daughter,  married  about  ten  days),  and  Mr. 
Lamb  and  Lady  Caroline.  She  is  daughter  to  Lord 
Besborough.  The  ball,  he  says,  was  uncommonly  full, 
and  intolerably  hot.     I  am  very  glad  I  did  not  go. 

"  August  6th. — We  find  building  the  new  house  so 
dreadfully  expensive  a  job,  that  we  meditate  giving  the 
matter  up,  though  we  have  completed  cellars,  etc.  We 
think  of  adding  to,  and  repairing  the  old  house  instead, 
which  we  fortunately  as  yet,  have  not  pulled  down.  It 
will  cost  half  as  much,  perhaps  only  a  quarter  as  much 
as  a  new  house  would.  I  am  strongly  for  the  prudential 
side  of  the  question,  and  I  think  we  shall  certainly  em- 
brace it.  Another  inducement  is,  that  Mr.  Leach  says 
we- shall  be  able  to  get  into  it  next  July  twelvemonth, 
whereas  the  new  house  would  take  years  to  finish. 

"  August  10th. — There  are  great  hopes  that  Lord 
Nelson  has  fallen  in  with  the  combined  fleets. 

"  August  nth. — Sir  George  Duckett,  a  smooth  spoken 
old  man,  and  a  Mr.  Glover,  a  prosing  boring  old  bachelor, 
dined  with  us  yesterday.  I  have  been  much  shocked  by 
hearing  of  the  death  of  young  Lady  Sydney.2  She  was  a 
sweet  creature,  and  I  have  known  her  from  a  child.    She 

1  Afterwards  Lady  Palmerston. 

2  Lady  Caroline  Clements,  third  daughter  of  the  ist  Earl  of  Leitrim, 
married  (as  his  second  wife)  1802  John  Thomas,  2nd  Viscount  Sydney, 
and  died  1805,  leaving  an  only  son,  afterwards  Earl  Sydney. 


50     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

was  daughter  to  neighbours  of  ours  in  Ireland,  Lord 
and  Lady  Leitrim.  She  died  in  child-birth,  an  hour 
after  she  was  delivered  of  a  boy.  My  Mother's  letter  and 
the  newspaper  are  full  of  alarms  about  Invasion.  She 
seems  quite  frightened. 

"  August  16th. — We  have  quite  determined  upon  adding 
to  the  old  house.  I  am  delighted  at  it,  as  I  think  building 
the  new  one  would  have  involved  us  deeply,  and  if  any- 
thing happened  to  us  soon,  would  leave  Felix  with  too 
large  a  house  for  the  property  he  would  inherit. 

"  I  am  very  low-spirited.  Lady  Sydney's  death  preys 
upon  my  mind.  I  try  not  to  think  of  it,  for  it  is  no  rule 
because  she  has  died  in  her  lying-in,  that  the  same  thing 
is  to  happen  to  me,  but  I  can't  banish  the  idea,  and  I 
feel  most  terribly  frightened  this  time — however,  God's 
will  be  done. 

"  The  papers  today  speak  in  the  most  terrifying  and 
certain  terms  of  the  approaching  Invasion,  and  mention 
that  Lord  Keith1  is  so  sure  of  its  soon  taking  place,  that 
he  has  removed  his  family  from  the  coast.  Our  weather 
is  very  pleasant.  I  hope  it  may  continue  so  for  the  harvest 
and  that  the  odious  French  will  not  come  to  interrupt  it. 

"  August  iSth. — There  is  shocking  news  from  India. 
Lord  Lake2  has  been  repeatedly  defeated  by  Holkar, 
and  a  vast  number  of  officers  and  soldiers  killed.  Stocks 
are  down  at  fifty  seven — in  short  public  affairs  look  very 
gloomy. 

"  Tuesday,  20th. — We  went  yesterday  to  Mr.  Giles's, 
Youngsbury,  where  we  dined  and  slept.  It  is  a  very 
comfortable  house,   and  pretty  place.     Mr.   Giles  is  a 


1  George,  Viscount  Keith,  g.c.b.,  Admiral  of  the  Blue,  married  first 
1787  Jane,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  William  Mercer,  second  in  1808 
Hester  Maria,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  Henry  Thrale.  He  died  March 
10th,  1823,  without  male  issue. 

2  Gerard,  1st  Viscount  Lake  of  Delhi,  born  1794.  He  received  the 
thanks  of  both  Houses  of  Parliament  for  the  high  military  talents 
and  personal  valour  he  had  displayed  in  the  command  of  the  army 
during  the  Mahratta  War.  He  married  in  1770  Elizabeth,  only  daughter 
of  Edward  Barker,  of  St.  Julians,  Co.  Herts.  He  died  in  1808,  and  was 
succeeded  by  his  eldest  son. 


i8o5]  COUNTRY  NEIGHBOURS  51 

pleasant,  hospitable  bachelor,  turned  of  forty.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Caswall,  and  a  Miss  Pickford  dined  there,  also  Mr. 
and  Miss  Byde.  Mr.  Byde  is  a  good  sort  of  man,  and 
would  be  pleasant,  were  he  not  very  deaf.  His  sister  is 
the  image  of  him,  has  as  much  beard  as  he  has,  and  is  as 
deaf.  Mrs.  Caswall  was  a  grocer's  daughter,  looks  like 
a  housekeeper,  but  has  brought  Mr.  Caswall,  I  believe, 
nearly  £200,000.  He  is  handsome,  but  vulgar,  talks  loud 
and  pompously.  He  is  building  a  fine  house,  about  ten 
miles  from  this,  and  values  himself  much  on  that  and  his 
riches. 

"  Wednesday,  21st. — Mr.  William  Calvert  and  Walter 
came  in  the  evening — what  dull  company  they  are — God 
bless  them  !  They  have  no  ideas  beyond  a  crop  of  wheat, 
or  field  of  potatoes. 

"  Wednesday,  28th. — An  account  today  of  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester's  death.1  I  knew  him  very  well,  and  some 
years  ago  we  played  many  a  rubber  of  Casino  together. 
He  was  a  man  of  amiable,  mild,  pleasing  manners,  no 
great  brilliancy,  but  good-natured  and  humane. 

"  Friday,  30th. — I  went  yesterday  to  Hertford,  Isabella 
with  me.  We  visited  Baroness  Dimsdale,2  and  then 
went  to  buy  mourning  for  the  Duke  of  Gloucester. 

"  Sunday,  September  1st. — I  had  a  letter  from  my 
Mother  today.  She  says  there  have  been  shocking  re- 
ports about  the  King,  and  that  he  had  cut  his  throat, 
and  I  know  not  what,  but  it  turns  out,  thank  God,  un- 
true, and  the  papers  today,  in  large  characters,  an- 
nounce him  as  being  extremely  well. 

"  Monday,  2nd. — I  had  a  visit  yesterday  from  Captain 
and  Mrs.  Jocelyn  and  the  two  Miss  Jocelyns.  They 
looked  a  most  dismal  set,  in  the  very  deepest  mourning 
for  the  Duke  of  Gloucester.     I  dare  to  say  they  would 


1  William  Henry,  born  November  14th,  1743,  third  son  of  King 
George  II,  Duke  of  Gloucester  and  Edinburgh  and  Earl  of  Connaught, 
married  1766  Maria,  Countess  Dowager  Waldegrave,  and  died   1805. 

a  Elizabeth,  third  wife  of  Baron  Dimsdale,  married  1779.  A  Barony 
of  the  Russian  Empire  was  conferred  on  his  father  by  the  Empress 
Catherine  of  Russia  1762. 


52      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

not  for  the  world  have  put  on  an  article  that  was  not 
ordered  in  the  Gazette.  I  am  not  quite  so  strict,  and  I 
dare  say  they  thought  me  very  ignorant  and  vulgar  in 
my  white  gown,  with  only  a  bit  of  black  round  my  head. 
In  the  country,  I  think  one  may  indulge,  and  really 
black  is  so  hot  and  dirty  at  this  time  of  year,  I  can't 
bear  it. 

"  Monday,  gth. — We  went  to  Church  at  Curzon  Chapel 
yesterday.  Afterwards  we  went  to  see  the  Miss  An- 
guishes. We  only  saw  Miss  Maria.  Charlotte  is  gone 
out  of  Town,  nearly  cured  of  a  very  bad  complaint  in 
her  stomach,  by  magnetism  and  warm  ale.  There  was  a 
funeral  oration  at  Grosvenor  Chapel,  and  fine  anthems 
sung.  The  Chapel  hung  in  black,  and  lit  with  tapers,  the 
crowd  and  heat  so  dreadful,  that  people  were  nearly 
killed. 

"  Thursday,  12th. — I  took  my  dear  Isabella  to  Mrs. 
Devis  yesterday,  and  left  her  there — her  eyes  overflowed 
when  parting  with  me.  A  great  number  of  the  Guards 
are  ordered  abroad,  and  almost  all  the  Cavalry.  The 
idea  of  Invasion  seems  quite  over,  and  we  are  going  briskly 
to  war  on  the  Continent. 

"  Hunsdon,  Friday,  13th. — I  stopped  at  Waltham  Cross 
for  an  hour  and  a  half  to  rest  my  horses,  as  I  came  here 
all  the  way  with  them.  I  arrived  to  dinner  at  six,  and 
found  all  well,  and  delighted  to  see  me.  Mr.  C.  had  been 
to  Mr.  Brand's  ball  at  the  '  Hoo  '  seventeen  miles  from 
this.  He  says  it  was  a  very  pleasant  one,  and  all  the 
County  there — the  beauty  of  the  ball  was  the  youngest 
daughter  of  Mr.  Hale,  only  fifteen.  He  says  she  is 
beautiful,  and  she  promised  to  be  so  when  last  I  saw  her. 

"  Thursday,  26th. — I  had  a  letter  to-day  from  my  sister, 
mentioning  that  an  account  was  come  of  the  Russians 
having  defeated  Bernadotte  and  destroyed  his  whole 
army.    I  hope  it  may  be  true." 


CHAPTER   IV 

The  Battle  of  Trafalgar — Death  of  Nelson — An  unwelcome  visit 
— Felix  and  Isabella — A  penitent  letter — Wars  and  rumours 
of  wars — Lord  Nelson's  funeral — Death  of  Mr.  Pitt — Lord 
Pery — His  funeral  at  Pelham — A  beautiful  duchess — Lord 
Wellesley's  engagement — Lady  Lansdowne's  masquerade. 

1805. 
yA    S  Mrs.  Calvert  was  driving  through  Ware  one 
/%        day  early  in   November,  she  was   met    by 
/     ^     heavy  tidings. 

"  1805. — Lord  Nelson  had  engaged  the  com- 
bined fleets,  taken  nineteen  sail  of  the  line  and  blown  up 
one.  But  he  has  fallen  in  the  action,  which  took  place 
on  the  21st  of  October. 

"  The  latter  part  of  this  news  has  completely  damped 
the  delight  which  the  first  part  would  have  created. 

"  The  next  morning's  post  brought  a  full  confirmation 
of  the  news.  Two  of  the  nineteen  ships  made  their  escape. 
We  have  got  the  Admiral  (Villeneuve)  but  alas  !  our 
gallant  hero  is  too  surely  no  more.  He  lived  to  hear 
victory  proclaimed  and  was  killed  quite  at  the  end  of 
the  action  by  a  rifleman.  Great  and  decisive  as  this 
victory  is,  the  loss  of  that  gallant  man  nearly  annihilates 
the  joy  of  everybody.  The  whole  account  of  poor  Lord 
Nelson's  death  is  in  the  papers.  I  really  could  not  read 
it  without  tears." 

We  have  said  that  Mrs.  Calvert  was  a  good  hater.  Her 
description  of  some  unwelcome  visitors — who  happened 
also  to  be  relations — is  quaint  enough  to  provoke  a 
smile. 

53 


54      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

"  Hunsdon  House,  Nov.  igth. — My  head  aches,  and  I 
am  sick  at  the  thoughts  of  my  company.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Tash  1  and  Mrs.  Winter  are  to  dine  with  us  and  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  T.  sleep  here.  I  devoutly  pray  that  they  may  go 
away  to-morrow. 

"  Nov.  20th. — Alas,  my  prayers  have  been  in  vain  ! 
They  stay  till  Saturday,  and  heartily  sick  I  am  already 
of  making  the  agreeable  from  morning  till  night.  They 
arrived  yesterday  just  before  dinner. 

"  Nov.  21  st. — I  have  got  them  all  out  walking  at  last, 
by  which  means  I  have  a  few  minutes  to  myself.  Never 
was  I  so  tired  of  any  people  in  my  whole  life. 

"  I  had  a  letter  from  my  sister  to  say  that  my  Felix 
is  in  town  with  her.  I  would  give  anything  to  go  and 
have  a  peep  at  him,  but  here  I  am,  tied  by  the  leg  by 
these  odious  people.  I  am  quite  out  of  sorts.  Yesterday 
evening  I  worked  and  played  a  little  at  backgammon 
with  the  agreeable  Mr.  Tash.    Oh,  what  a  Beast  he  is  !  " 

An  interesting  event  was  expected  in  the  Calvert 
family,  and  Mr.  Tash  intimated  to  his  nephew  by  mar- 
riage that  he  very  much  wished  that  Honor  should  be 
the  name  of  the  baby  if  it  happened  to  be  a  girl. 

"  I  actually  screamed  when  Mr.  C.  told  me  this,  and 
he  has  promised  to  tell  Mr.  Tash  I  cannot  bear  the  name, 
especially  as  I  have  set  my  heart  on  calling  her  after  my 
angel  Mary.  But  if  it  gives  him  any  pleasure,  she  shall 
be  called  Mary  Honor." 

Mr.  Tash  was  evidently  not  satisfied  with  this  conces- 
sion, for  a  later  entry  in  the  Journal  says  : 

"  Of  course  he  could  not  object,  but  declines  having 
Honor  as  the  second  name,  as  he  wished  to  keep  it  in 
reserve  for  another.    So  there  it  rests." 

1  Honor  Calvert,  sister  to  Mr.  Felix  Calvert,  of  Portland  Place, 
married  1745  Thomas  Tash,  of  Vale  Mascall,  Kent,  son  of  Sir  John 
Tash,  Sheriff  of  London,  who  was  knighted  17 19. 


i8o5]  AN  UNWELCOME  VISIT  55 

It  is  impossible  not  to  admire  the  delicacy  and  decorum 
with  which  this  triangular  discussion  seems  to  have  been 
carried  on,  as  well  as  the  naivete  with  which  Mrs.  Calvert 
takes  us  into  her  confidence. 

"  Mrs.  Tash,  whose  name  is  Honor,  is  to  be  Godmother, 
and  seems  much  pleased.  Poor  woman,  she  is  dull  and 
tiresome,  but  good  natured.  He  is  without  exception 
the  greatest  hog  I  ever  saw — but  he  is  rich,  and  the  hope 
that  he  may  consider  some  of  my  children  keeps  me  in 
order  and  makes  me  civil.  They  seemed  much  pleased 
with  their  visit,  and  have  just  taken  their  leave,  to  my 
great  joy.    I  feel  like  a  boy  out  of  school !  " 

Who  does  not  know  that  delightful  sensation  of  relief  ? 
Mrs.  Calvert  joyfully  hurried  to  London  directly  she  had 
got  rid  of  her  unwelcome  guests. 

"  We  found  Felix  in  Park  Street,  looking  very  well  and 
a  good  deal  grown.  I  confess  I  was  a  good  deal  hurt  at 
his  not  seeming  the  least  glad  to  see  us." 

Felix,  who  was  then  just  fourteen,  was  probably  not 
more  demonstrative  than  most  school-boys  of  his  age,  but 
evidently  not  wanting  in  filial  affection,  for  the  next 
morning  his  conscience  smote  him,  and  he  ran  off  to 
Albemarle  Street  to  see  his  mother,  assuring  her  of  his 
love  for  her, 

"  which  he  did,  poor  fellow  !  deluged  in  tears.  We  are 
too  ready  to  believe  what  we  wish,  but  at  all  events,  it  is 
a  pleasing  delusion. 

"  Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  in  Grosvenor  St.  There  was  a 
good  deal  of  company,  Lady  Headfort,  General  Hastings, 
Lord  De  Vesci  and  Sir  John  Doyle.1  He  produced,  after 
dinner,  a  snuff  box  with  the  Seraglio  represented  on  the 

1  Sir  John  Doyle,  a  general  officer,  G.C.B.,  was  created  a  Baronet 
1805,  and  died  unmarried  1834. 


56     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

lid  in  diamonds,  a  present  of  the  Grand  Vizier  to  him. 
There  were  some  very  sweet  pastilles  in  the  box,  of  which 
I  much  admired  the  smell.  I  think  he  might  have  given 
me  a  small  one. 

"  Nov.  2jth. — My  Mother  took  me  yesterday  to  see 
Isabella  ;  she  looked  delightfully.  It  went  to  my  heart 
to  be  obliged  to  lecture  her.  She  means  nothing  wrong, 
but  the  love  of  talking  is  so  strong  in  her  that  I  think  it 
necessary  to  check  it  whenever  I  can." 

Those  were  evidently  the  days  when  little  girls  were 
meant  to  be  seen  and  not  heard.  A  few  days  later  her 
mother  writes  : 

"  I  received  a  letter  to-day  from  my  dear  Isabella,  with 
which  I  was  very  much  pleased  indeed.  It  was  beautifully 
written,  and  in  a  very  good  style,  but  what  pleased  me 
still  more  were  the  sentiments  it  contained — she  acknow- 
ledges candidly  her  fault  in  talking  too  much,  and  in  the 
prettiest  manner  assures  me  she  will  endeavour  to  correct 
herself  of  all  her  faults." 

Isabella's  pretty  and  penitent  letter  touched  and 
pleased  her  mother  so  much,  that  she  kept  it  until  the 
day  of  her  death.  It  was  found  amongst  her  papers,  and 
ran  as  follows  : 

Copy. 

"  My  ever  dearest  Mama, 

"  I  cannot  tell  you  how  sorry  I  am,  I  should  have 
given  you  such  just  cause  of  displeasure,  but  I  hope  I  shall 
never  do  so  again,  by  talking  less.  Indeed,  Mama,  if  you 
knew  how  perfectly  unhappy  I  was  before  you  wrote  me 
that  sweet  letter,  you  would  not  doubt  that  I  intend  to 
correct  myself  of  all  the  faults  you  point  out  to  me.  I 
will  not  attempt  to  justify  myself,  for  that  would  be  im- 
possible. I  know  too  well  that  I  am  too  apt  to  talk  much 
and  by  that  led  to  say  things  that  I  ought  not,  but  in- 


i8o5]  A  PENITENT  LETTER  57 

deed,  dear  Mama,  I  will  correct  myself.  I  hope  I  shall 
never  meet  you  again  with  that  look  of  displeasure.  I 
could  tell  by  your  face  that  I  had  been  doing  something 
wrong.  Pray  think  no  more  about  it,  and  you  shall  see 
me  quite  different  when  you  come  to  town.  My  Aunt 
Knox  was  so  good  as  to  take  me  to  the  play,  Wednesday, 
to  see  Henry  the  fourth,  the  Wild  Islanders  and  For- 
tunes Frolic.  I  should  have  written  to  you  before,  but 
Saturday  being  the  day  the  young  ladies  write,  I  hope 
you  will  excuse  it.  Pray  give  my  best  love  to  my  brothers 
and  sister  with  duty  to  Papa.  Mrs.  Devis  desires  her 
compliments. 

"  Believe  me,  dearest  Mama, 
"  to  remain  your 

"  dutiful  and  affectionate  daughter, 

"  Isabella  Calvert. 
Devonshire  Place, 

"  December  yth,  1805." 

"  Wednesday,  18th. — I  was  so  uneasy  and  uncomfort- 
able all  day  that  it  was  settled  I  should  go  to  Town. 

"  Albemarle  Street,  Thursday,  igth. — Felix  and  I  left 
Hunsdon  yesterday  morning.  Mr.  C.  was  so  careful  of  me 
that  he  went  with  me  as  far  as  Bonnington's  Hill,  and 
walked  up  it  with  me  as  it  was  slippery,  and  he  was 
afraid  the  horse  might  fall.  Dear  soul,  how  kind  he  is 
to  me  !  We  arrived  in  Park  Street  just  before  dinner. 
My  sister  and  Mr.  K.  John  and  James  dined  there.  John 
is  grown  a  fine  young  man  ;  he  is  going  in  March  to  a 
University  at  Leipsick.  There  has  been  a  great  battle 
between  the  combined  armies  and  the  French — great 
losses  on  both  sides.  The  Emperor  Alexander  headed 
his  army,  and  behaved  with  the  greatest  bravery.  Mr. 
Chilvers  has  just  been  here,  and  bled  me — I  feel  better 
already. 

"  Friday,  20th. — I  sent  for  Isabella  and  she  dined  and 
spent  the  day  in  Park  Street  with  us — but  before  I  went 
there  to  dinner,  I  had  a  great  fright  by  my  arm  bursting 
out  bleeding  so  violently  that  we  in  our  flurry  could  not 


58     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1805 

stop  it.  Mr.  Tupper  was  sent  for,  who  bound  it  up,  and 
stopped  it ;  but  before  he  came  I  was  much  frightened, 
and  so  were  my  two  children.  Felix,  especially,  was  as  pale 
as  a  ghost,  and  indeed  so  anxious  about  me  that  I  have 
no  reason  to  doubt  the  darling  boy's  affection.  This 
second  bleeding,  I  believe,  was  favourable  to  me  for  the 
first  had  not  cured  my  side,  but  this  had  quite. 

"  Saturday,  21st. — I  am  quite  another  creature  since  I 
was  bled.  The  Russians  beat  the  French  on  the  Fourth — 
at  least,  so  it  is  believed. 

"  Monday,  2yd. — I  dined  in  Park  Street.  Mrs. 
Beaumont  also  spent  the  evening  there.  She  is  a  great 
favourite  of  mine,  only  I  wish  she  was  not  so  fond  of 
holding  forth  on  her  riches,  establishment,  etc.  She  is 
a  sensible  woman,  and  I  am  surprised  she  does  not  per- 
ceive the  ridicule  of  it.  It  lessens  one's  opinion  of  her 
good  sense,  but  nobody  is  wise  at  all  times.  I  believe  there 
is  a  Latin  saying  to  that  effect.  Felix,  however,  knows 
I  am  not  fond  of  Latin  quotations,  so  if  I  knew  it,  I  should 
not  repeat  it. 

"  Sunday,  2gth. — I  went  with  my  Mother  to  see  Anne 
Knox.1  They  were  just  arrived.  George  was  gone  out, 
but  I  saw  Anne  and  their  little  boy,  Thomas  Pery  ;  he  is 
ten  weeks  old,  a  fine  child  but  not  pretty. 

"  Tuesday,  31st. — Terrible  reports  of  the  Austrian  and 
Russian  armies  having  surrendered,  and  an  armistice 
concluded  by  them  with  Bonaparte,  and  there  are  hopes 
that  this  is  false,  but  we  are  all  in  a  sad  fright.  I  went 
with  my  sister  to  visit  Lady  Lucan,  and  Lady  Clermont — 
we  talked  of  nothing  but  the  dismal  news. 

"  January  ist,  1806. — I  had  a  long  visit  from  Colonel 
Hamilton  yesterday,  and  was  very  tired  of  him,  he  is  a 
good  old  man,  but  so  dreadfully  prolix  that  I  thought  he 
would  never  leave  me.  I  went  out  afterwards  with  my 
sister.  We  drove  into  the  city — coming  back  in  the 
Strand  we  were  stopped  by  a  great  crowd,  which  we 
found  occasioned  by  a  dreadful  accident.    A  stage  coach 

1  The  Hon.  Mrs.  George  Knox. 


i8o5]  LORD  NELSON'S  FUNERAL  59 

had  broke  down,  and  a  woman  had  her  arm  shattered  in 
a  dreadful  manner.  A  poor  man  was  killed  on  the  spot, 
and  we  had  the  horror  of  seeing  him  carried  lifeless 
stretched  out  on  a  door.  We  dined  in  Park  Street.  My 
sister  went  to  the  Opera,  and  the  Dowager  Lady  Kingston 
and  Anne  Knox  spent  the  evening  in  Park  Street.  How 
Lady  Kingston  does  talk  !  And  poor  woman,  how  excel- 
lent does  she  think  her  own  understanding  and  judgment. 
She  really  does  not  want  for  good  sense,  but  by  over- 
valuing it  so  much,  one  does  not  give  her  credit  even 
for  what  she  possesses. 

"  Friday,  yd. — Alas  !  Alas  !  All  the  bad  news  is  true. 
That  pusilanimous  Emperor  of  Austria  has  made  peace 
with  Bonaparte,  and  the  Russians  are  on  their  way  back 
to  their  own  country. 

"  Monday,  6th. — Lady  Headfort  and  Lady  Mary  Taylor1 
visited  me  yesterday  morning.  They  are  great  favourites 
of  mine  ;  Lady  Mary  is  not  handsome,  but  a  sweet  young 
woman. 

"  Wednesday,  8th. — Mr.  C.  is  gone  with  my  sister  to 
Thames  Street  to  see  the  Procession  of  Lord  Nelson's 
funeral  by  water  as  it  comes  from  Greenwich.  He  is  to  be 
buried  to-morrow  at  St.  Paul's.  Such  a  pretty  letter 
from  Felix  to-day — so  affectionate  it  brought  tears  to  my 
eyes.  God  preserve  him,  and  all  my  darlings  to  me  ! 
They  are  wound  and  twisted  round  my  heart. 

"  Thursday,  gth. — The  streets  are  all  alive  with  people 
going  to  Lord  Nelson's  funeral.2  I  suppose  I  shall  not  be 
able  to  write  again  for  some  time — if  ever. 

"  If  I  die,  my  last  prayer  will  be  for  my  beloved  hus- 
band and  children.  God  grant  me  strength  of  mind  and 
body  to  bear  the  pain  I  must  necessarily  endure  !  " 

But  it  is  pleasant  to  record  that  Mrs.  Calvert's  sad 
presentiments  were  not  fulfilled.  After  the  birth  of  a  boy 

1  Lady  Mary  Taylor  was  Lady  of  the  Bedchamber  to  H.R.H.  the 
Princess  Augusta.     She  died  in  September,  1843. 

2  It  is  not  generally  known  that  the  black  silk  neckerchief  worn  by 
sailors  first  came  into  vogue  at  Lord  Nelson's  funeral. 


60     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1806 

on  January  9th,  she  made  a  good  and  rapid  recovery. 
He  was  baptised  by  the  names  of  Richard  Charles,  but 
died  in  less  than  three  weeks  owing  to  some  organic 
defect.  His  death  was  quickly  followed  by  that  of  Lord 
Pery,  who  had  long  been  in  failing  health. 

"  1806.  Jan.  15^. — Mr.  Pitt  is  dangerously  ill ;  nobody 
knows  what  will  be  the  result,  and  everyone's  mind  is  on 
the  stretch  of  anxiety.  Mr.  Sheridan  called  here  before 
Mr.  C.  came  to  Town,  and  was  very  anxious  to  see  him. 
I  find  what  he  and  the  Opposition  party  wanted,  was  to 
have  Mr.  C.  second  Lord  Henry  Petty 's  amendment  to- 
day, but  now,  were  he  inclined  to  do  so,  he  would  have 
no  time  to  prepare  a  speech.  It  is  very  flattering  to  have 
him  sought  for  on  such  an  occasion. 

"  Wednesday,  22nd. — All  opposition  to  the  address  was 
postponed  till  Monday,  on  account  of  Mr.  Pitt's  illness. 
Mr.  C.  a  few  minutes  ago,  came  in  to  say  he  had  just 
heard  that  Pitt  is  dead — if  true,  what  changes  this  will 
produce ! 

"  January  2yd. — No  truth,  as  yet,  as  to  Pitt's  death. 
Yesterday  the  whole  Town  talked  of  nothing  else.  This 
morning  the  papers  announce  him  as  much  better.  If 
he  really  recovers  I  shall  have  my  doubts  whether  he  ever 
has  been  so  ill.  I  have  strong  suspicions  that  it  has  been 
a  party  trick  to  put  off  the  expected  opposition. 

"  January  24th. — I  wronged  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  party  by 
my  surmises,  for  poor  man,  he  expired  yesterday  morn- 
ing at  half  past  four.  He  died  like  a  Christian,1  and  re- 
ceived the  Sacrament.  Lord  Althorp  and  Lord  Henry 
Petty  have  set  up  for  the  University  of  Cambridge  in 
his  place.  Nobody  knows  anything  yet  of  who  are  to 
form  the  Administration.  There  are  numberless  con- 
jectures, bets,  etc.    The  Knoxs  had  a  great  dinner  last 

1  A  public  funeral  was  decreed  to  Mr.  Pitt,  and  ^40,000  to  pay  his 
debts.  He  was  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  under  his  first  Administra- 
tion, from  1783  to  1 80 1.  The  second  Administration  was  formed  1804, 
and  terminated  by  Mr.  Pitt's  death. 


viscount  i-krv 


i8o6]  DEATH  OF  LORD  PERY  61 

night.  The  Duchess  of  Gordon  was  to  have  been  of  the 
party,  but  sent  an  excuse  as  her  grief  for  Mr.  Pitt  was 
so  great  she  could  not  quit  her  room. 

"  Tuesday,  Feb.  4th. — My  sister  sat  with  me  yesterday 
evening.  She  thought  my  poor  Father  indifferent.  I 
fear  he  is  fast  declining.  God  grant  he  may  not  suffer 
in  his  last  moments  !  That  is  all  we  have  to  wish  for  him. 
He  has  long  ceased  to  enjoy  life,  and  he  will  exchange  this 
for  a  blessed  eternity.  A  better  man  never  existed,  and 
happy  will  it  be  for  those  he  leaves  behind,  if  they  can 
die  with  as  cheering  a  prospect. 

"  Tuesday,  25th. — At  a  little  after  twelve  yesterday 
morning,  my  beloved  Father  breathed  his  last.  I  was 
sitting  at  his  bedside,  and  he  expired  without  a  pang — 
nature  completely  worn  out,  for  he  wanted  very  little 
of  eighty  seven.  I  kissed  his  cold  cheek  soon  after,  and 
on  my  knees  by  his  bedside  vowed  to  Heaven  to  en- 
deavour to  correct  all  my  faults.  My  dearest  Mother  has 
borne  her  loss  with  gentleness  and  resignation.  He  looks 
as  if  he  were  in  a  placid  composed  sleep.  We  have  had 
a  caste  taken  of  him,  and  I  trust  my  children  will  pre- 
serve it  with  care  as  a  relic  of  the  best  of  men,  who  has 
been  an  honour  to  his  family. 

"  February  26th. — My  beloved  Father's  will  was  opened 
yesterday.  He  has  in  it  considered  my  sister  a  great  deal 
more  than  me.  I  should  feel  infinite  mortification  if  I 
thought  it  was  from  a  greater  affection  for  her,  but,  if  he 
had  a  preference  it  was  for  me.  I  believe  he  was  in  the 
dark  about  his  affairs  from  his  great  age,  and  thought  he 
made  it  more  equal  as  he  often  said  that  was  his  intention. 
I  only  regret  it  as  it  makes  us  less  able,  my  children,  to 
provide  handsomely  for  you. 

"  February  2jth. — There  is  a  fine  character  of  my 
Father  in  all  the  papers  to-day,  written  by  George 
Knox.  I  will  copy  it  into  my  Journal  at  the  first  leisure 
moment. 

"  I  have  said  nothing  of  public  news  lately — my  mind 
has  been  too  much  occupied  by  private  misfortune.  I 
must  now  mention  that  we   have  taken  the  Cape  of 


62      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1806 

Good  Hope  ;  accounts  came  yesterday  of  the  capture 
of  it.1 

"  I  saw  Lord  Limerick  for  the  first  time  yesterday,  he 
being  the  heir  to  my  Father's  estates,  made  him  think 
we  might  feel  more  at  seeing  him  than  another  person. 
He  begged  to  kiss  me,  which  I  readily  did  ;  but  I  could 
not  look  at  his  sable  dress,  without  pain.  We  have  not 
yet  put  on  our  mourning,  and  shall  not  till  Tuesday,  the 
day  on  which  the  beloved  remains  are  to  be  consigned 
to  our  family  vault  at  Pelham.2  My  sister  and  I  intend 
going  to  the  awful  ceremony  as  mourners.  It  was  my 
particular  wish.  I  must  say  I  dread  it,  but  will  not  shrink 
from  the  trial. 

"  Monday,  yd. — This  morning  my  lamented  parent's 
remains  have  set  out  on  their  way  to  Pelham.  My  sister 
and  I  leave  Town  at  five  to-morrow  morning  in  order  to 
overtake  them.    We  shall  sleep  at  Hunsdon." 

Extract  from  The  Oracle  of  February  26th,  1806  : 

"  Died  on  Monday  last,  at  his  house  in  Park  Street,  in 
the  eighty  seventh  year  of  his  age,  Edmond  Sexten  Pery, 
Lord  Viscount  Pery.  His  Lordship  was  born  April  3rd, 
1719,  and  married  first  Martha,  youngest  daughter  of 
John  Martin,  Esq.,  who  died  without  issue.  He  married 
secondly  Elizabeth,  sister  of  Thomas  Viscount  de  Vesci, 
and  has  issue,  Diana  Jane,  born  1764,  married  Thomas, 
eldest  son  of  Viscount  Northland  ;  Frances  married  1789, 
Nicolson  Calvert  Esq.  His  Lordship  was  chosen  to  the 
exalted  station  of  Speaker  to  the  House  of  Commons  in 
Ireland,  in  three  successive  Parliaments.  He  resigned 
his  high  office,  September  4th,  1805,  with  a  farewell 
address,  and  afterwards  received  the  thanks  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  who  moved  an  address  to  His  Majesty  of 
his  faithful  services,  when  His  Majesty  was  graciously 

1  It  was  taken  by  Sir  David  Baird  and  Sir  H.  Popham  January 
9th,  1806,  and  finally  ceded  to  England  in  August,  1814. 

2  Furneaux  Pelham  Hall,  Herts,  has  been  for  over  two  hundred 
years  in  the  Calvert  family.  Lord  and  Lady  Pery  are  buried  in  the 
vault,  also  Lady  Ranfurly,  their  elder  daughter,  who  died  in  Paris  1839. 


i8o6]  HIS  FUNERAL  AT  PELHAM  63 

pleased  to  grant  him  a  pension  of  £3,000  per  annum. 
His  Lordship  dying  without  male  issue,  the  pension,  and 
his  title  become  extinct.  His  Lordship's  two  surviving 
daughters  are  the  Honourable  Mrs.  Knox,  and  the 
Honourable  Mrs.  Calvert,  two  ladies  of  amiable  character, 
well  known  in  the  fashionable  world." 

In  the  next  day's  Oracle  appeared  the  character 
written  by  George  Knox. 

"  The  late  Viscount  Pery. 

"  Perhaps  no  man  ever  passed  through  a  long  life  with 
such  universal  approbation  in  the  sister  kingdom.  The 
dignity  with  which  he  filled  an  important  post  for  many 
years,  his  profound  knowledge  of  the  Constitution,  his 
firmness,  the  mildness  of  his  deportment,  his  independent 
spirit,  and  above  all,  his  scrupulous  impartiality,  are  still 
remembered  with  gratitude  and  admiration.  In  private 
life  he  was  truly  the  idol  of  his  relations  and  friends.  The 
gentleness  of  his  manners,  the  indulgence  with  which  he 
received  the  opinions  of  others,  and  his  freedom  from 
every  appearance  of  selfishness,  procured  from  all  around 
him  an  affection  mingled  with  respect.  It  is  with  much 
pleasure  that  we  can  add  that  his  life  was  as  prosperous 
and  happy  as  it  was  long  ;  his  prosperity  he  owed,  not  to 
any  efforts  to  promote  his  own  interests,  but  to  his  well- 
earned  reputation  alone,  and  from  the  consciousness  that 
he  had  merited  the  esteem  and  gratitude  of  all  his  con- 
temporaries." 

"  Wednesday,  $th. — At  six  o'clock  yesterday  morning, 
my  sister  and  I  left  Town.  We  arrived  about  half  past 
eleven  at  Pelham.  We  saw  my  beloved  Father's  remains 
deposited  in  the  vault.  I  went  into  it,  and  had  my  little 
angel's  coffin  moved,  and  put  on  his  feet.  As  it  was 
earlier  in  the  day  than  we  expected,  we  proceeded  to 
Town,  first  stopping  to  rest  the  horses,  and  dine  at 
Hunsdon.  I  have  been  to  see  my  dearest  Mother  this 
morning.  Our  meeting  affected  her  terribly,  and  I  am 
glad  it  is  over.    I  trust  she  will  now  get  better. 


64      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1806 

"  Sunday,  23rd. — Sir  J.  Duckworth  1  has  captured  the 
whole  of  the  French  fleet,  which  had  gone  to  the  West 
Indies.  I  have  heard  the  guns  firing  since,  in  honour  of 
it.  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Bedford  are  gone  to  Ire- 
land. He  is  the  new  Lord  Lieutenant.  It  is  said  the 
Ministry  would  not  allow  her  Mother,  the  Duchess  of 
Gordon,  to  go  with  her,  as  she  is  such  a  strange,  flighty 
woman,  and  would  set  the  country  in  a  flame.  She  goes 
about  abusing  Ireland,  and  says  going  there  is  as  bad 
as  being  banished  to  Siberia.  It  is  said  she  made  that 
speech  to  Lord  Darnley,  who  coolly  answered,  '  Yes, 
Duchess,  or  to  Scotland.' 

"  Poor  George  Knox  has  lost  his  office,  one  of  the 
Secretaries  of  State  for  Ireland.  They  have  given  it 
to  Mr.  Parnell,  who  is  married  to  Lady  Caroline  Darner,2 
Lord  Portarlington's  eldest  daughter.  I  fear  he  will  be 
obliged  to  let  his  house  in  this  street,  as  his  circumstances 
will  be  reduced  so  much. 

"  March  24th. — It  was  five  sail  of  the  line  that  Sir 
J.  Duckworth  defeated — three  he  has  captured,  and 
two  burnt. 

"  Sunday,  30th. — The  business  in  the  House  last  night 
was  the  Budget.  The  Property  Tax  is  raised  to  10% 
from  5%.  I  wonder  where  our  taxes  will  end  !  The 
Duchess  of  Devonshire  3  is  dying.  It  was  said  yesterday 
she  was  dead,  but  that  was  not  true.  I  have  sent  this 
morning  to  enquire  after  her. 

"  March  31st. — The  Duchess  of  Devonshire  died  at 
half  past  three  yesterday  morning.  Her  debts,  I  hear, 
are  immense.     The  Duke  paid  some  years  ago  £120,000 

1  Admiral  Sir  John  Thomas  Duckworth,  g.c.b.,  born  1747,  was  a 
distinguished  naval  officer.  He,  as  Captain  of  the  Orion,  shared  in 
the  victory  of  the  1st  June,  1794,  and  when  Vice- Admiral  signally 
defeated  a  French  fleet  near  Ocoa  Bay,  1806.  He  was  made  Baronet 
in  181 3,  and  died  1817. 

2  Lady  Caroline  Darner  married  1801  Sir  Henry  Parnell,  Bart.,  M.P., 
afterwards  1st  Lord  Congleton,  and  died  1861. 

3  Georgiana,  daughter  of  Earl  Spencer,  married  1774  William, 
5  th  Duke  of  Devonshire.  She  was  celebrated  for  her  beauty  and 
charm  of  manner ;  the  Prince  of  Wales  spoke  of  her  as  "  the  best  bred 
woman  in  England." 


i8o6]  A  BEAUTIFUL  DUCHESS  65 

for  her.  It  is  hardly  credible  how  a  woman  could  make 
away  with  so  much  money.  But  she  lost  a  great  deal 
gambling  in  the  Alley.1  She  was  unbounded  in  her 
charities,  but  as  she  paid  no  trades  people,  and  borrowed 
money  from  everyone  who  would  lend  it  to  her,  one  must 
say  her  charity  was  at  the  expense  of  other  people.  Many, 
they  say,  have  been  ruined  by  her.  She  was  a  celebrated 
beauty,  and  had  most  captivating  manners,  was  very 
good-natured  indeed,  and  easy  in  her  disposition.  It  is 
incalculable  what  mischief  she  has  done  in  this  Town,  but 
I  hear  on  her  death  bed,  she  was  very  penitent — may  her 
penitence  be  accepted  ! 

"  Tuesday,  April  1st. — I  went  to  my  Mother  yesterday 
evening.  Lady  Portarlington 2  and  my  sister  were  there. 
Lady  P.  told  us  that  her  brother-in-law,  Lord  Macartney, 
was  dying,  and  this  morning,  I  hear,  he  is  dead.  I  knew 
him  pretty  well,  and  he  was  a  very  agreeable  man.  He 
had  been  ambassador  at  different  Courts  ;  among  the 
rest  in  China,  and  had  a  great  many  anecdotes  and  in- 
formation, which  made  him  a  particularly  pleasant  com- 
panion. 

"  Wednesday,  2nd. — I  hear  that  the  unfortunate 
Duchess  of  Devonshire  asked  if  she  were  in  any  danger, 
and  they  assured  her  not.  How  barbarous  to  keep  any- 
one in  the  dark  on  such  a  subject,  and  especially  in  such 
a  case  as  hers — cut  off  in  the  full  career  of  her  folly,  to 
use  no  harsher  word.3 

"  Thursday,  10th. — I  had  a  visit  from  Captain  Black- 
wood of  the  Ajax.  He  is  an  old  friend  of  mine,  and  a 
very  good  sort  of  man.    He  was  in  the  engagement  when 


1  "  The  Alley  "  was  at  that  time  the  usual  way  of  alluding  to 
Change  (or  Exchange)  Alley  in  Cornhill,  where  stocks  and  shares 
were  sold  or  gambled  with.  References  to  the  Alley  will  be  found  in 
Pope's  Letters,  also  in  Gay  and  Swift. 

a  Lady  Caroline  Stuart,  daughter  of  the  Favourite,  the  Earl  of 
Bute.     Her  sister  Jane  was  wife  of  George,  Earl  Macartney. 

8  The  Duchess  was  so  adored  by  her  daughters,  Lady  Carlisle 
and  Lady  Harriet  Cavendish,  who  looked  up  to  her  as  the  most  per- 
fect of  women,  that  one  cannot  but  hope  that  Mrs.  Calvert  was  mis- 
taken. 


66     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1806 

Lord  Nelson  lost  his  life,  and  was  the  person  who  brought 
over  the  despatches  with  the  account  of  it. 

"  April  16th. — I  hear  there  is  hardly  a  bit  of  old 
Hunsdon  House  left  standing,  so  it  is  merely  the  name 
of  adding  to  it — it  will  be  nearly  a  new  house. 

"  Tuesday,  29th. — This  is  the  first  day  of  Lord  Mel- 
ville's trial.1  There  will  be  a  fine  crowd  there.  I  shall 
not  attempt  it. 

"  May.  Monday,  5^. — Part  of  Sir  John  Borlase 
Warren's  squadron  have  taken  the  Marengo — eighty 
guns — from  the  French,  with  Admiral  Lenoire  on  board, 
and  a  frigate. 

"  I  went  to  see  my  Mother  and  found  Lady  Wellesley 
with  her.  She  is  just  married  to  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley. 
She  was  a  Miss  Pakenham,  daughter  to  the  late  Lord 
Longford.  It  has  been  a  ten  years'  attachment.  He  was 
abroad  all  that  time,  principally  in  India,  where  he  has 
distinguished  himself.  He  had  proposed  to  her  before 
he  went,  but  was  rejected  by  her  family,  as  he  had  little 
or  nothing,  and  they  parted  without  any  engagement 
whatsoever. 

"  During  those  ten  years,  they  have  had  no  sort  of 
communication  either  directly  or  indirectly,  but  secretly 
nourished  their  attachment.  The  instant  he  landed  from 
India  he  wrote  to  her  to  Ireland  to  propose  for  her,  and 
was,  of  course,  accepted.  About  a  month  ago,  he  got 
leave  of  absence  for  a  few  days  only.  He  flew  to  Ireland, 
the  settlements  in  the  meantime  had  been  drawn  up. 
He  landed  on  Tuesday,  was  married  on  Thursday,  and 
the  Friday  sennight  he  and  his  bride  found  themselves 
in  London.  She  is  now  about  two  or  three  and  thirty, 
and  he  about  seven  and  thirty.  He  must  have  found 
her  sadly  altered,  for  she  was  a  very  pretty  little  girl, 
with  a  round  face,  and  fine  complexion.  She  is  now 
very  thin  and  withered  (I  believe  pining  in  his  absence 
helped^to  make  her  more  so).     I  think  she  looks  in  a 

1  Lord  Melville,  who  was  impeached  by  the  House  of  Commons  for 
embezzling  the  public  money,  was  acquitted  June  12th,  1806. 


i8o6]    WELLESLEY'S  ROMANTIC  MARRIAGE       67 

consumption,  which  idea,  a  short  cough  increases,  and  I 
know  Sir  Walter  Farquhar  has  desired  her  to  take  great 
care  of  herself.  She  is  gentle  and  amiable.  I  hear 
that  when  someone  told  Sir  Arthur  he  would  find  her 
much  altered,  he  answered  that  he  did  not  care  ;  it 
was  her  mind  he  was  in  love  with,  and  that  could  not 
alter.1 

"  Wednesday,  yth. — I  walked  twice  in  Hyde  Park 
yesterday — the  weather  very  warm.  My  nephew  Ed- 
mond  Knox  arrived  to-day  from  sea.  He  is  a  sweet  crea- 
ture, and  I  was  rejoiced  to  see  him,  after  an  absence  of 
three  years  and  a  half.  Mr.  C.  was  in  the  House  of 
Commons  till  between  one  and  two  this  morning. 

"  Saturday,  10th. — I  dined  at  Mrs.  Wright's.  In  the 
evening  came  a  parcel  of  vulgar  people.  I  stayed  till  ten 
and  played  one  rubber  at  Casino,  and  then  was  glad  to 
make  my  escape  home. 

"  Friday,  16th. — I  dined  at  Lord  Clif den's.  The  Mr. 
Howard,  who  will  be  Duke  of  Norfolk,  (from  whom  Lady 
Lucan  was  divorced,)  dined  there.  Lady  Clifden  is 
daughter  to  the  Duke  of  Marlborough.2  She  has  been, 
and  is  still,  rather  pretty,  but  she  is  shy,  and  seems  so 
frightened  in  company,  that  she  wants  manner  and  ease  ; 
also,  she  is  so  afraid  of  catching  cold,  and  so  careful  of 
herself,  that  from  keeping  herself  quite  in  cotton  she  is 
very  delicate.  She  is  very  cordial  and  kind  to  me,  and 
I  think  has  taken  a  fancy  to  me,  perhaps  from  my  talk- 
ing to  her  of  her  children,  of  whom  she  is  passionately 
fond. 

"  21st. — I  went  with  Isabella  yesterday  morning,  to  see 
the  Exhibition  of  pictures  at  Somerset  House.  Lady 
Headfort  lent  me  her  private  box  at  Drury  Lane.  The 
Play  was  *  The  Wonder  Woman  keeps  a  Secret,'  and  the 
1  Forty  Thieves.' 

1  The  marriage  was  only  a  moderately  happy  one.  "  Kitty 
Pakenham  "  died  Duchess  of  Wellington  in  1831. 

8  She  was  Lady  Caroline  Spencer,  eldest  daughter  of  George, 
3rd  Duke  of  Marlborough,  and  married  1792  Henry,  2nd  Viscount 
Clifden.    She  died  18 13. 


68     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1806 

"  Thursday,  22nd. — A  report  of  Jerome  Bonaparte 
being  taken  prisoner.    I  hope  it  may  be  true. 

"  Hunsdon,  24th. — I  feel  so  delighted  to  be  in  the 
country  again.  My  Mother  arrived  about  seven  in  the 
evening.    How  glad  I  am  to  have  her  ! 

"  2jth. — My  Mother  and  I  took  a  long  drive  in  the 
evening  in  her  landaulet.  We  went  to  Haileybury,  where 
there  is  a  College  building  for  young  men,  who  are  to  go 
out  as  Cadets  to  India.  In  the  meantime,  there  is  a 
school  for  little  boys.  If  we  hear  good  accounts  of  it,  we 
think  of  putting  Edmond  there  as  it  is  a  fine,  healthy 
situation. 

"  Saturday,  31st. — I  went  to  the  school  at  Hunsdon 
Street  for  the  poor  people,  and  heard  some  of  the  girls 
read. 

"Friday,  June  6th. — Mrs.  Devis  gives  Isabella  an  excellent 
character.  She  says  she  is  open-hearted,  honest,  and  true, 
and  much  loved  in  the  house.  To  hear  this,  gave  me  in- 
expressible pleasure. 

M  London,  Thursday,  12th. — This  morning,  at  ten 
o'clock,  I  went  with  my  sister  and  Lady  Cassilis  to  Lord 
Melville's  trial,  and  heard  him  acquitted.  I  cannot  say  he 
is  acquitted  in  my  mind.  The  Royal  Dukes  voted,  but  the 
Prince  of  Wales  was  not  present. 

"  Friday,  13th. — I  went  for  a  few  minutes  to  Lady 
Bridget  Bouverie's  yesterday  evening.  Her  daughters 
were  dressed  for  Lady  Lansdowne's  masquerade.  Maria, 
in  a  Spanish  dress  of  white  and  silver,  and  a  large  Spanish 
hat,  really  looked  quite  pretty,  and  little  Emma  as  a 
fairy,  which  suited  her  diminutive  figure,  looked  very 
well.  But  as  I  looked  at  them,  I  thought  to  myself,  '  I 
will  never  take  my  girls  to  a  masquerade.  I  think  it  an 
improper  place  for  a  young  and  delicate  female/  When 
a  woman  marries  she  may  very  well  go,  under  the  pro- 
tection of  her  husband,  but  not  without  him  while  very 
young.  At  my  age,  (if  it  amused  me)  I  should  have  no 
scruple  in  going,  but  if  I  die  while  you  my  Isabella  and 
Lavinia  are  under  thirty,  take  my  advice,  and  never  go 
to  a  masquerade  without  your  husbands. 


i8o6]  ROSSI,  THE  SCULPTOR  69 

"  Saturday,  14th. — I  went  with  my  sister  to  Rossi,  on 
the  New  road.1  He  is  making  a  bust  of  my  dear  Father. 
I  was  much  affected  at  the  sight  of  the  cast,  which  is 
strikingly  like  him." 

1  Now  known  as  the  Euston  Road.  It  seems  that  sculptors  pre- 
ceded the  monumental  masons,  who  in  later  years  have  become  very 
numerous  in  this  road. 


CHAPTER   V 

Esther  Acklom — Catalani — Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  and  his  wife — 
Felix  Calvert  is  confirmed — An  all-night  sitting — A  practical 
joke — Lord  Cochrane — Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  assembly — A  lover 
and  his  mistress — Marlborough  House — The  Prince  of  Wales 
and  Lady  Hertford — The  Pavilion  once  more. 

1807. 

IT  was  early  in  1807  that  Miss  Esther  Acklom  was 
mentioned  for  the  first  time  in  Mrs.  Calvert's 
Journal.  She  was  the  only  child  of  Mr.  Richard 
Acklom,  of  Wiseton  Hall,  Notts ;  a  great  heiress 
and  a  famous  London  beauty  ;  at  one  time  very  intimate 
with  the  Calvert  family.  It  is  to  be  feared  that  Miss 
Acklom  was  somewhat  of  a  flirt — though  that  word  does 
not  appear  to  have  been  invented  a  century  ago.  One 
evening  in  February  Mrs.  Knox,  Mrs.  Calvert,  and  Miss 
Acklom  went  to  the  Opera  together,  escorted  by  Mr. 
Charles  Calvert  and  Lord  Kinnoull,  who  is  described  as 
"  a  very  disagreeable  young  man." 

"  Catalani  sang ;  she  certainly  has  great  powers  of 
voice,  but  somehow,  I  do  not  extravagantly  admire  her." 

On  her  next  visit  to  the  Opera  Mrs.  Calvert  tells  us, 

"  Catalani  displayed  her  full  powers,  but  she  is  not  to 
my  taste ;  she  screams  so  loud  and  I  was  glad  to  get 
home." 

In  those  days  Catalani  was,  nevertheless,  at  the  summit 
of  her  fame.    Born  at  Sinigaglia  in  1779,  her  success  lasted 

70 


i8o7]  CATALANI  71 

nearly  thirty  years.  She  was  a  magnificent  -  looking 
woman,  of  regal  presence,  and  when  she  made  her  first 
appearance  at  Venice  when  only  fifteen,  her  voice  took 
the  musical  world  by  storm,  so  great  was  its  compass, 
flexibility,  and  power.  In  1804  her  salary  was  £3000,  but 
she  had  an  extravagant  husband  who  largely  helped  to 
dissipate  her  earnings.  Catalani  died  at  Paris  of  cholera 
in  1849. 

"  At  Lady  Mansfield's  Assembly  I  saw  my  old  friend, 
Sir  Arthur  Wellesley.  I  don't  believe  I  had  seen  him 
for  twenty  years." 

Shortly  afterwards  she  calls  on  Lady  Wellesley  and 
finds  her  at  home. 

"  She  has  a  nice  little  boy  of  three  weeks  old.  Sir 
Arthur  was  there  too,  and  Lady  Salisbury  and  the  Ladies 
Cecil  came  in  while  I  was  there.  I  never  saw  anything 
so  pretty  as  Lady  Emily  in  her  mourning  dress.  She  is 
like  a  pretty  trinket  to  hang  to  one's  watch  chain." 

The  pretty  Lady  Emily  married  in  1812  George,  1st 
Marquess  of  Westmeath,  and  had  one  child,  Lady  Rosa 
Nugent.1 

"  We  dined  at  Limerick's  to  meet  Sir  Home  Popham. 
He  is  at  present  under  arrest  and  is  to  be  tried  for  acting 
without  orders,  and  going  to  Buenos  Ayres,  instead  of 
remaining  at  the  Cape.  He  seems  most  perfectly  at  ease 
on  the  subject  and  talks  of  it  with  the  greatest  unconcern. 
He  seems  a  pleasant  man,  but  a  dasher.  Lord  Digby,2 
who  was  there,  is  a  stupid,  dull  man,  but  Limerick  thinks 

1  Rosa  Emily  Mary  Anne,  only  child  of  the  ist  Marquess  of  West- 
meath, married  April  28th,  1840,  Col.  Fulke  Greville-Nugent,  created 
in  1869  Lord  Greville  of  Clonyn. 

a  Edward,  2nd  Earl  and  8th  Baron  Digby,  of  Sherborne,  Dorset, 
was  born  1773,  succeeded  his  father  1793,  and  died  unmarried  1856, 
when  the  Earldom  became  extinct. 


72     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

him  charming,  because  he  is  an  Earl,  and  has  a  fine 
Castle  and  Estate." 

"  I  really  think  Charles  Calvert  is  in  love  with  Esther 
(Acklom)  and  she  certainly  likes  him.  I  should  be  de- 
lighted if  it  were  a  match,  but  as  she  is  entrusted  to  my 
care,  I  don't  think  I  ought  to  encourage  it.  Probably  her 
parents  look  higher  for  her,  and  I  would  not  have  them 
think  I  had  privately  made  it  up.  How  rejoiced  I  should 
be  to  have  her  for  my  sister  !    And  she  dotes  on  me." 

"  All  the  fine  world  were  at  Lady  Darnley's  Assembly 
last  night  and  the  Prince  was  there  too.  He  looks 
wretchedly,  and  is  now  a  thin  man.1  Mr.  Grimston,  (Lord 
G.'s  son)  is  to  be  married  to  Lady  Charlotte  Jenkinson.2 
I  am  sure  he  would  not  be  to  my  taste.  The  Ministry  is 
certainly  to  be  changed,  and  a  Dissolution  of  Parliament 
talked  of.    Heaven  grant  that  may  not  be  true  !  " 

The  love  affair  in  the  meantime  was  not  going  very 
well. 

"  Esther  declares  she  would  never  marry  a  man  over 
thirty.  This  augurs  ill  for  Charles  and  I  felt  snappish 
and  not  of  humour  with  her  all  the  rest  of  the  day." 

A  few  days  later  Mrs.  Calvert  writes  : 

"  All  hope  of  that  match  is  over,  Charles  is  in  despair. 
I  felt  provoked  with  Esther  for  she  certainly  gave  him 
every  reason  to  think  she  liked  him.  Mrs.  Walpole  tells 
me  she  has  a  bad  opinion  of  the  state  of  the  Prince's 
health.  She  loves  him  much  and  watches  him  closely, 
and  she  thinks  him  in  a  very  bad  way. 

"  The  Ministry  is  arranged — the  Duke  of  Portland  at 
the  head  of  it,  Lords  Westmoreland,  Camden,  Hawkes- 

1  This  recalls  Beau  Brummel's  historic  remark  to  Lord  Alvanley, 
"  Who's  your  fat  friend  ?  "  after  his  rupture  with  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

2  Lady  Charlotte  married  on  August  nth,  1807,  the  Hon.  James 
Walter  Grimston,  who  succeeded  his  father  as  4th  Viscount  Grimston 
in  1809.     He  was  created  Earl  of  Verulam  November  24th,  18 15. 


i8o7]  A  PRACTICAL  JOKE  73 

bury,  Messrs.  Perceval,  Canning,  Long,  etc.,  compose  it. 
There  was  a  division  yesterday  on  the  propriety  of  Mr. 
Perceval  having  the  Chancellorship  of  the  Duchy  of 
Lancaster  for  life.  The  present  Opposition  carried  their 
point  by  a  great  majority. 

"  Yesterday  was  an  important  day  for  my  Felix.  I 
went  with  him  to  the  Chapel  Royal  and  he  was  confirmed 
by  the  Bishop  of  London.1  I  was  much  affected.  It  was 
an  impressive,  awful  moment,  and  the  Bishop  of  London 
delivered  a  short  but  excellent  lecture  afterwards. 

"  April,  1807. — The  Duke  of  Richmond  2  tells  me  he 
goes  to  Ireland  on  Saturday  as  Lord  Lieutenant  and  Sir 
Arthur  Wellesley  as  his  Secretary.  The  house  did  not 
break  up  till  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning.  I  was  in  a 
grand  fuss  at  Felix  being  up  all  night.  Alas  !  the  Opposi- 
tion are  beaten  3  two  and  thirty  majority.  There  are  a 
sad  number  of  rats.  I  hear  Mr.  Brand  4  spoke  very  well, 
Mr.  Lamb  5  still  better,  but  Mr.  Grattan  6  (who  used  to  be 
a  famous  orator)  very  poorly." 

Mrs.  Calvert,  still  young,  and  full  of  fun  like  most  Irish 
women,  could  not  resist  a  practical  joke  at  her  cousin's 
expense. 

"  I  have  bought  a  yard  of  blue  ribbon,  the  colour  of  the 
Order  of  St.  Patrick,  and  a  yard  of  green,  (the  Order  of  the 
Thistle,)  which  I  have  enclosed  in  covers,  as  from  Lord 
Castlereagh,   one  to  Limerick,  and  the  other  to  Lord 

1  Bishop  Porteous  died  1809. 

2  Charles,  4th  Duke  of  Richmond,  k.g.,  born  1764.  He  became 
Governor-General  of  Canada,  and  died  there  in  18 19  from  the  bite  of 
a  dog. 

3  On  the  Catholic  question. 

*  Afterwards  Lord  Dacre. 

6  Afterwards  Lord  Melbourne. 

•  Henry  Grattan,  the  celebrated  Irish  statesman  (1 746-1820), 
was  a  zealous  Whig,  but  no  revolutionist,  and  as  a  statesman  his 
views  were  broad  and  judicious.  After  the  dissolution  of  the  Irish 
Parliament  (1800)  he  was  elected  one  of  the  Members  for  the  city 
of  Dublin,  and  represented  that  constituency  until  his  death.  He 
possessed  none  of  the  gifts  of  an  orator,  but  few  could  equal  him  in 
fervidness  and  originality. 


74     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

Cassilis,  and  I  mean  to  have  them  brought  in  after  dinner 
as  a  quiz,  as  it  is  supposed  that  they  are  looking  out  for 
these  ribbons.  Lord  Castlereagh  is  at  present  with  the 
Opposition,  but  there  have  been  suspicions  of  his  desert- 
ing. The  Prince  has  deserted  them — they  say  he  wanted 
them  to  bring  in  a  bill  to  separate  him  from  the  Princess 
while  they  were  in  power,  but  they  refused  to  do  his  dirty 
work,  and  I  think  it  speaks  much  in  their  favour.  The 
present  Ministry  x  are  dirty  fellows,  and  will  do  or  promise 
anything  to  keep  their  places. 

"  We  hear  that  Parliament  is  certainly  to  be  dissolved 
on  Tuesday.  Sir  John  Sebright  and  Mr.  Brand  mean 
to  stand  for  Brighton." 

Mrs.  Calvert,  at  the  end  of  April,  took  her  children  to 
this  favourite  watering-place.  They  established  them- 
selves at  17  Marine  Parade,  "  a  very  comfortable  house 
with  a  delightful  view  of  the  sea,  and  a  large  garden 
behind  for  the  children  to  play  in." 

The  Pavilion  had  not  long  been  finished,  and  immense 
sums  had  been  spent  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  on  it  and  its 
decorations.  It  was  not  until  the  year  1803  that  he  began 
to  build  the  stables,  which  took  six  years  to  complete 
and  cost  over  £70,000.  "  They  are,"  says  Mrs.  Calvert, 
"  a  most  superb  edifice,  indeed  quite  unnecessarily  so." 

"  I  hear  that  the  Princess  of  Wales  is  to  be  received 
at  Court  on  the  14th,  I  shall  not  belive  it  till  I  actually 
hear  she  has  been  there.  A  conversation  took  place 
between  Lord  Lauderdale  2  and  the  Duchess  of  Gordon. 
He  asked  her  where  her  friend  Lord  Melville  was. 

"  '  Dining/  said  she,  '  at  the  Princess  of  Wales'  at 
Blackheath.' 

"  '  Very  good  company  for  each  other,'  remarked  his 
Lordship,  '  two  acquitted  felons.' 

1  The  Tory  Government. 

2  James,  8th  Earl  of  Lauderdale,  17 59- 1839. 


i8o7]  LORD  COCHRANE  75 

"  '  Oh,'  replied  the  Duchess,  '  had  your  correspondence 
with  Brissot  in  1783  been  intercepted,  you,  my  Lord, 
would  not  have  been  an  acquitted  felon.'  " 

Truly,  people  in  those  days  were  nothing  if  not  out- 
spoken ! 

"  Mr.  C.  writes  that  his  election  comes  on  tomorrow, 
and  everything  goes  on  quietly.  But  at  St.  Albans  they 
are  very  riotous,  burning  the  Pope  in  effigy.  Mr.  C.  says 
that  Lord  Spencer  will  lose  the  election  from  having 
favoured  the  Roman  Catholics.  Lord  Duncannon  stands 
upon  his  interests.  It  is  reported  that  Sir  Frances 
Burdett  x  has  been  dangerously  wounded  in  a  duel  with 
Mr.  Paul.2 

"  My  sister  is  busy  electioneering  for  Lord  Cochrane.3 
I  did  not  know  that  she  knew  him.  My  Mother  writes 
that  she  can  talk  of  nothing  else.  A  cart  full  of  sailors 
was  driven  up  to  Grosvenor  Street  and  gave  my  sister 
three  cheers  !  My  Mother  is  quite  in  a  fright,  lest  she 
should  get  into  the  papers.  For  my  part  I  believe  she  is 
crazy." 

To  get  into  the  papers  was  evidently  considered  a 
most  "  ungentle  woman-like  "  thing  to  do. 

By  the  end  of  May  the  Westminster '  Election  was 
over. 

"  Lord   Cochrane   and   Sir   Francis   Burdett   are   the 


1  He  was  a  Member  for  Westminster,  and  the  father  of  the  late 
Baroness  Burdett  Coutts. 

2  On  the  death  of  Fox,  Paul  became  a  candidate  for  Westminster, 
and  Burdett  subscribed  ^iooo  towards  his  election.  He  was,  however, 
defeated,  and  the  following  year,  owing  to  some  misunderstanding, 
Paul  challenged  Burdett  to  a  duel.  Both  were  wounded,  and  they 
were  conveyed  to  London  together  in  Paul's  carriage. 

3  Lord  Cochrane,  afterwards  ioth  Earl  of  Dundonald,  was  born 
1775,  and  has  left  a  name  of  high  distinction  in  our  naval  annals, 
his  career  being  one  of  brilliant  exploit  and  daring.  In  1809  his  de- 
struction of  the  enemy's  ships  in  the  Basque  roads  dealt  a  crushing 
blow  to  Napoleon's  maritime  efforts. 


76     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

successful    ones,    but    Mr.    Sheridan *    petitions  against 
Lord  Cochrane." 

While  spending  a  few  days  at  her  sister's  home  in 
Grosvenor  Street,  Mrs.  Calvert  had  an  encounter  with 
Sir  John  Sebright  on  the  subject  of  politics. 

"  He  was,  as  he  often  is,  extremely  disagreeable  and 
I  was  very  warm.  However  we  shook  hands  at  parting. 
If  I  can  possibly  prevent  it  Sir  John  shall  never  represent 
our  country  again.  A  woman's  talk  can  have  great  effect 
in  a  County  Election,  and  I  won't  be  sparing  of  mine  !  " 

One  cannot  read  her  Journal  through  without  being 
convinced  that  Mrs.  Calvert  was  a  very  firm  friend,  and 
it  is  evident  that  she  could  also  be  a  bitter  enemy. 

"  Poor  Lady  Hardwicke  2  has  entirely  lost  her  voice. 
For  these  two  months  she  has  explained  herself  by  signs, 
and  had  a  slate  and  pencil  in  her  hand,  in  case  she  had 
anything  particular  to  say.  I  really  feel  afraid  she  will 
never  recover  her  speech. 

"  June  $th,  1807. — My  sister  and  I  went  late  to  an 
Assembly  at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  3  where  were  all  the  fine 
world.  The  Prince  of  Wales,  Duke  of  York,  Dukes  of 
Clarence,  Cambridge  and  Kent  were  all  there,  dressed  in 
full  uniform.  I  had  some  conversation  with  the  Prince 
and  the  Dukes  of  Clarence  and  Cambridge.  The  others 
I  do  not  know." 

Mrs.  Fitzherbert  seems  to  have  been  not  only  received 
by  the  Royal  Family,  but  to  have  been  very  popular  with 
them.    After  long  hesitation  she  had  consented  to  a  secret 

1  Richard  Brinsley  Sheridan,  born  175 1  in  Dublin.  He  had  as  a 
dramatist  no  equal  among  his  contemporaries.  He  married  Miss 
Linley,  and  died  18 16. 

2  She  was  Lady  Elizabeth  Lindsay,  daughter  of  James,  5th  Earl 
of  Balcarres,  and  married  1782  John  Yorke,  5th  Earl  of  Hardwicke. 
Lady  Hardwicke  died  in  1858. 

3  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  then  lived  at  6  Tilney  Street,  Park  Lane. 


i8o7]      MARRIAGE  OF  MRS.  FITZHERBERT        yy 

marriage  with  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  it  took  place 
on  December  15th,  1785,  at  her  house  in  Park  Street. 
The  Reverend  Robert  Burke,  a  young  curate,  who  had 
not  long  been  in  Holy  Orders,  performed  the  ceremony, 
receiving  as  his  fee  £500.  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  uncle,  Mr. 
Errington,  gave  her  away,  and  he  and  her  brother  Jack 
Smythe  acted  as  witnesses,  the  doors  being  locked  and 
the  greatest  secrecy  observed.1 

"  June  14th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  an  Assembly  at  the 
Dowager  Duchess  of  Rutland's.2  I  think  I  never  saw 
anybody  look  so  transcendently  beautiful  as  she  did. 
The  Prince  of  Wales  was  there,  and  talked  to  us  for  a 
quarter  of  an  hour." 

In  ten  days  or  less  Mrs.  Calvert  was  back  at  Brighton 
with  her  children.  She  gives  us  a  pretty  little  pen  and 
ink  sketch  of  a  young  couple  in  whom  she  is  interested. 

"  I  visited  Lady  Harriet  Sullivan  and  found  her  at 
home,  also  Captain  Stuart,  who  is  to  marry  Miss  Sullivan. 
He  was  standing  by  his  mistress,  talking  to  and  admiring 
her  while  she  worked. 

"  Mr.  Abbot  is  again  chosen  Speaker.  Mr.  Yorke  pro- 
posed him,  and  was  seconded  by  Mr.  Bankes.  My  sister 
writes  that  Esther  Acklom  has  refused  Lord  Lindsay  (of 
Balcarres)  and  Mr.  Wynne — so  poor  Charles  has  com- 
panions in  misfortune  !  " 

In  the  meantime  "  Mr.  C."  keeps  his  wife  posted  up  in 
political  news.  He  had  been  the  night  before  at  Lord 
Howick's  3  and  heard  the  amendment  read. 

1  Taken  from  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  and  George  IV  by  Wilkins. 

2  She  was  Lady  Mary  Isabella  Somerset,  daughter  of  the  4th  Duke 
of  Beaufort,  and  married  1775  the  4th  Duke  of  Rutland.  She  died 
1 83 1  at  her  house  in  Sackville  Street,  Piccadilly.  She  was  a  great 
beauty,  painted  four  times  by  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds. 

3  Lord  Howick  was  born  1764.  He  maintained  for  twenty-one 
years  a  leading  position  in  the  House  of  Commons,  succeeded  his 
father  as  Earl  Grey  November,  1807,  and  died  1845. 


78     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

M  It  was  temperate  but  strong,  and  entirely  confined 
to  one  subject,  namely  the  Dissolution  of  Parliament, 
ending  with  a  slight  reprobation  of  the  '  No  Popery  ' 
cry.  Public  opinion,  (says  Mr.  C.)  seems  to  anticipate 
the  fall  of  the  Ministry  which  he  thinks  they  richly 
deserve,  and  adds  that  he  would  not  partake  of  the  sensa- 
tions of  His  Majesty's  present  Ministers,  for  all  that  the 
King  could  bestow. 

"  I  dined  with  the  Poles  yesterday.  Sir  Charles  *  is 
a  good  humoured  pleasant  man,  but  I  do  think  Lady 
Pole  is  the  most  disagreeable  little  snuffling,  grumpy 
woman  I  ever  saw. 

"  Lady  Anne  Yorke  is  to  be  married  to  Lord  Pollington 
(Lord  Mexborough's  son).  He  is  an  ugly  little  man, 
younger  than  herself,  I  should  not  like  my  daughter  to 
marry  Lady  Mexborough's  2  son.  Evil  communications 
corrupt  good  manners  and  she  could  not  avoid  associating 
with  her  mother-in-law." 

In  Upper  Grosvenor  Street  the  following  week,  Mrs. 
Calvert  writes  : 

"  I  had  a  visit  from  Sir  John  Sebright,  who  wants  to 
make  peace  with  me,  but  I  am  not  peaceably  inclined 
towards  him.  There  was  a  great  dinner  here  yesterday, 
some  of  the  heads  of  Opposition,  the  Duke  and  Duchess 
of  Bedford,  Lord  and  Lady  Spencer,3  Lord  and  Lady 
Grenville,4  Sir  George  Shee  and  Mr.  Brand.  The  dinner 
went  off  extremely  well.  Lady  Spencer  is  agreeable  and 
talkative.      The    Duchess    of    Bedford    handsome    and 

1  Sir  Charles  Pole  was  created  a  Baronet  in  1791.  He  took  the 
name  and  arms  of  Pole  by  Royal  Sign  Manual,  having  married  Milicent, 
daughter  and  heir  of  Charles  Pole  of  Holtcroft.     He  died  18 13. 

2  John,  2nd  Earl  of  Mexborough,  married  1782  Elizabeth,  only 
daughter  and  heir  of  Henry  Stephenson,  Esq.,  of  East  Burnham, 
Bucks. 

3  George  John,  2nd  Earl  Spencer,  k.g.,  born  1758,  married  1781 
Lavinia,  eldest  daughter  of  Charles,  1st  Earl  of  Lucan.    She  died  1831. 

4  William  Wyndham,  brother  of  the  Marquess  of  Buckingham, 
born  1759,  a  distinguished  statesman  elevated  to  the  Peerage  1790  as 
Baron  Grenville. 


i8o7]  MARLBOROUGH  HOUSE  79 

pleasant  enough — at  least  she  was  in  the  humour  to  be  so 
yesterday.  Lady  Grenville  x  is  gentle  and  extremely 
pleasing.  I  never  saw  so  silent  and  pale  a  man  as  the 
Duke  of  Bedford.  Lord  Grenville  don't  look  very  much 
alive." 

The  custom  of  inviting  other  people's  guests  or 
"  running  "  a  hostess  seems  to  have  been  not  unknown 
a  hundred  years  ago. 

"  We  went  to  an  Assembly  at  Lady  Kingston's.  Then 
to  a  ball  at  Miss  Noel's  in  Cavendish  Square.  We  were 
invited  to  the  latter  by  the  Duchess  of  Rutland.  Miss 
Noel  having  but  few  acquaintances,  the  Duchess  asked 
most  of  the  company.  Lady  Cork,  I  hear,  had  also 
liberty  to  ask  people,  so  among  them  they  made  the  ball 
a  most  amazing  crowd. 

M  The  Prince,  Dukes  of  Cambridge  and  Gloucester  were 
there.  The  garden,  which  was  lit  up  like  Vauxhall, 
looked  very  pretty  and  some  danced  there. 

"  July  16th,  1807. — We  went  to  an  Assembly  at  Marl- 
borough House.2  We  visited  Lady  Clermont  3  yesterday 
and  got  in.    What  a  disagreeable  old  woman  she  is  ! 

"  The  Emperor  of  Russia  and  Bonaparte  have  made 
peace.  We  shall  be  left  completely  in  the  lurch.  Mr.  C. 
is  going  to  Hatfield  house  to  sleep  there  and  meet  the 
Judges  as  the  Assizes  are  tomorrow.  I  think  it  very  ill- 
bred  of  her  Ladyship  not  asking  me." 

There  was  evidently  not  much  cordiality  between  the 
families,  perhaps  owing  to  the  fact  that  they  differed  in 

1  Lady  Grenville,  married  1792,  was  the  Hon.  Anne  Pitt,  sister  of 
the  last  Baron  Camelford. 

2  Marlborough  House  did  not  become  a  Royal  residence  till  18 17, 
when  it  was  purchased  by  the  Crown  as  a  residence  for  the  Princess 
Charlotte  and  Prince  Leopold. 

8  Frances,  daughter  of  Col.  John  Murray,  M.P.  for  Co.  Monaghan. 
She  married  in  1752  William  Henry  Fortescue,  Earl  of  Clermont. 
She  died  December  3rd,  1820. 


80     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

politics.  At  the  Hertford  ball  Mrs.  Calvert  met  Lady 
Salisbury,  who 

"  looked  very  foolish  when  she  saw  me,  and  mumbled 
something  about  thinking  I  was  at  Brighton.  This  by- 
the-bye  was  a  great  fib,  for  she  saw  me  at  Miss  Noel's 
ball,  and  I  told  her  I  was  come  to  stay  some  time." 

"  July  25th. — Last  night  we  went  to  a  ball  at  Lady 
Headfort's.  The  Prince  was  in  high  spirits  and  looks 
better.  I  think  poor  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  much  deserted  by 
him  now.  He  has  taken  it  into  his  head  to  fall  desperately 
in  love  with  Lady  Hertford.1  She  is  near  fifty,  has  been 
and.  indeed  still  is  beautiful,  but  on  a  very  large  scale.  I 
think  her,  without  exception  the  most  forbidding, 
haughty,  unpleasant  -  looking  woman  I  ever  saw.  She 
seems  to  smile  on  his  Royal  Highness,  at  least  she  is 
flattered  by  his  attention. 

"  Lady  Anne  Yorke  introduced  her  futur,  Lord  Polling- 
ton,2  to  me.  He  is  an  ugly,  insignificant  looking  little 
mortal,  but  appears  good  humoured.  She  seems  as 
happy  as  possible.  I  hear  the  Russians  are  extremely 
dissatisfied  with  the  Emperor  Alexander  for  making 
peace  with  Bonaparte  and  it  is  quite  likely  he  may  be 
knocked  on  the  head  before  six  months  are  out. 

"  August  $th. — The  Prince  and  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  are 
expected  here  either  to-day  or  to-morrow.  It  is  reported 
that  the  King  and  Queen  are  to  come  to  the  Pavilion 
after  the  races.  The  Prince  going  to  Cheltenham  to  be 
near  his  beloved  Lady  Hertford.  Alas !  poor  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert ! 

"  August  8th. — Today  the  Prince  passed  me  close  in 
his  landau,  and  made  me  a  low  bow,  taking  off  his  hat,  so 
the  children  had  a  full  view  of  his  face.     Mr.  C.  and  I 

1  She  was  Isabella,  eldest  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  Charles  Ingram, 
9th  Viscount  Irvine,  and  married  1776,  as  his  second  wife,  Francis, 
2nd  Marquess  of  Hertford.     She  died  1836. 

2  John,  Viscount  Pollington,  was  born  1783,  and  succeeded  his 
father  as  3rd  Earl  of  Mexborough  1830.     He  died  i860. 


MARY  SEYMOUR  (HON.  MRS.  DAWSON  DAMER) 

From  a  miniature  by  Isabey 

By  kind  permission  of  Lady  Constance  Leslie 


i8o7]  THE  PAVILION  ONCE  MORE  81 

visited  Mrs.  Fitzherbert.  She  seemed  extremely  glad  to 
see  us,  and  took  us  all  over  her  house,  which  is  a  very 
pretty  one.  I  think  the  Prince  looks  dismally.  He  has 
quite  lost  his  affable  smiling  ways." 

Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  house,  on  the  Steine,  was  then 
lately  furnished  and  is  still  in  existence.  It  has  a  large 
verandah  on  which  she  and  the  PrinCe  often  sat.  His 
Royal  Highness  was  very  fond  of  sending  impromptu 
invitations.  After  an  evening  walk  on  the  Steine  with 
her  husband,  Mrs.  Calvert  returned  home  to  dress,  when 
a  message  came  desiring  her  presence  at  the  Pavilion, 

"  I  therefore,  in  a  hurry  went  to  dress.  The  Prince 
was  in  good  spirits  and  the  Band  played  several  pretty 
things. 

"  The  next  night  we  went  to  the  Pavilion  about  ten. 
There  was  a  conjuror  who  performed  tricks.  Miss 
Seymour  was  there,  and  a  very  nice  little  girl  she  is. 
They  were  all  so  ill-natured  to  the  conjuror,  doing 
everything  they  could  to  put  him  out  and  spoil  his 
tricks.  The  Prince's  manner  was  so  different,  and  so 
good  natured  applauding  whenever  he  could.  I  thought 
it  very  disrespectful  of  them,  particularly  as  he  two  or 
three  times  said, '  Let  the  poor  man  alone.' 

"  August  13th. — Mr.  C,  Felix  and  I  went  to  the  ball 
in  honour  of  the  Prince's  birthday.  It  was  an  immense 
crowd  and  dreadfully  hot.  Lady  Gage  and  I  kept 
together.  The  Duke  of  Clarence  was  so  drunk,  Charles 
was  obliged  to  lead  him  home.  He  took  a  loving  fit  for 
Mr.  Calvert,  and  told  him  he  loved  him  drunk  or  sober 
in  his  heart.  The  house,  lighted  up,  looked  very  pretty, 
but  I  was  a  good  deal  tired  and  not  sorry  when  it  was 
over." 


CHAPTER    VI 


Mrs.  Calvert's  Journal  continued — Pavilion  gaieties — Firle  Place 
— Siege  of  Copenhagen — A  visit  to  Paine 's  Hill — Bonaparte 
and  Josephine — Felix  enters  the  Army — Sir  John  Moore — 
Brighton  gossip — A  sad  parting — Une  femme  de  quay  ante  ans 
— Death  of  Lord  Thomond — Miss  Hope  Vere — A  brilliant 
Soldier. 


"  1807.     Brighton,  17,  Marine  Parade,  August  ijth. 

1NOW  enter  upon  the  fifth  volume  of  my  Journal, 
or  Mes  Souvenirs.  They  are  often  scrawled  in  a 
great  hurry,  but  I  think  when  I  am  dead,  they  will 
prove  interesting  to  my  children,  and  I  please 
myself  in  thinking  that  a  hundred  years  or  so 
hence  (if  they  are  preserved  so  long),  when  I  have 
been  long  mouldering  in  the  silent  grave,  they  will  be 
far  from  uninteresting  to  my  descendants — at  least  I 
know  I  should  be  delighted  if  some  of  my  Ancestors  had 
written  a  Journal. 

"  I  don't  know  how  much  longer  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  stays 
here.  She  has  got  her  sister,  Lady  Haggerston1  with  her. 
Lady  H.  is  very  handsome  still,  though  a  grandmother, 
but  this  is  the  age  for  grandmothers  to  be  handsome 
and  admired.  I  suppose  by  the  time  I  become  one,  I 
shall  be  a  great  beauty.  Alas  !  however,  I  must  own  I 
pluck  out  many  gray  hairs  every  day,  and  my  glass  tells 
me  I  am  altering  fast.  I  feel  a  little  mortification  at  it, 
but  only  a  very  little,  and  I  shall  be  quite  content  now  in 

1  Frances,  younger  daughter  of  Walter  Smythe,  and  grand- 
daughter of  Sir  John  Smythe,  Bart.,  of  Eshe,  Durham,  married  Sir 
Carnaby  Haggerston,  of  Haggerston  Castle,  Northumberland,  and 
left  an  only  daughter,  afterwards  Lady  Stanley.  Lady  Haggerston 
died  in  1836. 

82 


LOUISA    BRUNTOX,    COUNTESS    OF    CRAVEN 


i8o;]       MRS.  FITZHERBERT  ENTERTAINS  83 

contemplating  Isabella's  improvement,  which  will  com- 
pletely obliterate  all  regrets  at  my  own  falling  off. 

"  August  18th. — Last  night  at  half  past  ten,  Mr.  C. 
and  I  went  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's.  We  found  two  card 
tables  and  a  few  sitters  by.  Mr.  C.  and  I  played  two 
rubbers  at  Casino,  with  Mr.  Rycroft  and  Lady  Hagger- 
ston.  I  think  her  remarkably  pleasing,  and  she  really  is 
beautiful.  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  has  ordered  a  play  for 
Friday,  and  she  has  begged  I  will  go  with  her.  I  want  to 
bespeak  a  play  some  night,  which  will  amuse  the  children. 

"  August  22nd. — Last  night  I  went  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's 
box  at  the  Play.  Miss  Vanneck  (Lord  Huntingfield's 
daughter),  and  Miss  Jefferies  were  the  only  women,  but 
there  were  a  good  many  men.  It  was  Miss  Brunton's 
benefit.  She  is  certainly  a  very  handsome  woman,  but 
I  don't  think  her  looks  pleasing.  She  has  prodigious 
fine  black  eyes,  but  she  rolls  them  about  too  much. 
Lord  Craven  is  supposed  to  be  very  much  in  love  with 
her,  and  many  think  he  will  marry  her.1  I  have  ordered 
a  Play  for  Tuesday.  It  is  to  be  '  The  Provoked  Husband,' 
and  *  The  Devil  to  Pay.'  I  have  been  sitting  with  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert  this  morning.  She  is  to  come  to  my  box  on 
Tuesday,  and  to  bring  Miss  Seymour — nothing  can  be 
more  cordial  than  she  is  to  me.  She  asked  me  to  come 
whenever  I  can  of  an  evening  with  her.  She  told  me  the 
Prince  had  given  them  a  great  fright  since  he  went  away, 
having  been  one  day  very  ill,  but  he  is  now  well  again. 

"  I  had  a  letter  this  morning  from  Esther.  She  says 
she  is  persecuted  by  Lord  Lindsay,  and  Mr.  Walpole,2 
but  she  won't  have  either  of  them.  She  desires  to  be 
kindly  remembered  to  Charles  Calvert. 

"  August  2yd. — I  dined  and  supped  at  Lady  Rawlin- 
son's.    We  played  at  Cribbage  in  the  evening.    I  had  a 

1  William,  ist  Earl  of  Craven,  born  September  ist,  1770,  married 
on  December  12th,  1807,  the  celebrated  actress  Louisa,  daughter 
of  John  Brunton  of  Norwich. 

2  Lieut.-Col.  the  Hon.  John  Walpole,  fourth  son  of  Horatio,  2nd 
Earl  of  Or  ford,  born  November  17th,  1787.  He  was  Charge  d' Affaires 
in  Chili,  and  died  unmarried  on  December  10th,  1859. 


84     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

visit  in  the  morning  from  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough,1 
and  her  only  unmarried  daughter,  Lady  Amelia  Spencer,2 
who  is  rather  pretty,  but  looks  formal  and  not  at  her  ease. 
They  say  the  Duchess  has  always  been  a  most  disagree- 
able mother,  indeed,  some  go  as  far  as  to  say  an  un- 
natural one,  but  a  common  acquaintance  as  I  am,  can  see 
nothing  of  it.  She  is  the  best  bred  woman  I  ever  saw, 
and  has  great  suavity  of  manners,  but  there  cannot  have 
been  so  much  smoke  without  fire,  and  she  is  proverbial 
for  unkindness  to  her  family.  Lord  Francis  Spencer,3 
her  youngest  son,  is  married  to  a  daughter  of  the  Duke 
of  Grafton's,  who  seems  an  amiable  little  woman.  They 
have  four  children,  and  the  Duchess  talked  of  them  with 
great  tenderness.  They  have  a  house  opposite  to  Marl- 
borough House,  where  they  sleep,  but  the  Duchess  says 
they  eat  all  their  meals  with  her. 

"  August  25th. — There  is  an  account  in  the  papers  of  the 
death  of  the  Duchess  of  Gloucester.4  I  wonder  whether 
there  will  be  a  Court  mourning.  She  never  was  received 
at  Court,  but  as  her  children  are  acknowledged,  I  don't  see 
how  it  can  be  avoided.  At  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  last  night, 
while  I  was  out  from  cards,  I  read  at  least  seven  news- 
papers of  the  day.  I  said  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  '  What  a 
number  of  papers  you  take  in.'  She  answered  they  were 
the  Prince's,  which  he  sends  her. 

"  August  2jth. — I  went  last  night  to  the  Play.  It 
was  ordered  by  Lady  Charles  Somerset,5  and  a  more 
miserable  House  I  never  saw.     I  had  the  next  box  to 


1  George,  4th  Duke  of  Marlborough,  married  1762  Caroline,  only 
daughter  of  John,  4th  Duke  of  Bedford. 

2  Lady  Amelia  married  18 12  Henry  Pytcher  Boyce,  Esq.,  and  died 
1865. 

3  Lord  Francis  was  created  Lord  Churchill  on  August  nth,  18 15. 

4  Maria,  Countess  Waldegrave,  illegitimate  daughter  of  Sir  Edward 
Walpole.  Married  in  1766  H.R.H.  William  Frederick,  Duke  of  Glouces- 
ter and  Edinburgh,  brother  of  King  George  III. 

5  Lord  Charles  Somerset,  second  son  of  the  5th  Duke  of  Beaufort, 
was  born  1767.  A  general  officer  and  Governor  of  the  Cape  of  Good 
Hope.  He  married  first  1788  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  2nd  Viscount 
Courtenay.  She  died  181 5.  His  second  wife  was  Lady  Mary,  daughter 
of  John,  4th  Earl  Paulett,  k.x. 


i8o7]  FIRLE  PLACE  85 

Lady  Charles.  She  is  a  civil,  silly  woman, — Lord  Charles 
a  haughty,  disagreeable  man.  The  Play  was,  '  She 
Stoops  to  Conquer.'  I  was  very  much  diverted  as  to 
Isabella.    She  was  in  fits  of  laughter. 

"  August  28th. — The  heat  is  intense.  About  half  past 
ten,  I  went  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  Lord  Huntingfield, 
and  Miss  Vanneck,  to  the  Master  of  the  Ceremonies  ball, 
and  a  more  deplorable  ball  I  never  saw.  The  only  thing 
to  amuse  was  Lady  Pomfret  *  (far  from  a  young  woman), 
curiously  dressed,  dancing  away  with  all  her  fat  loosely 
shaking  like  blanc  mange.  Her  companion's  dress 
afforded  us  much  fun.  She  was  a  little  squab  figure, 
with  brilliant  rings  on  every  finger — diamonds — watches 
— bracelets  all  in  profusion — her  gown  blue,  and  a  blue 
ridicule  to  match,  dangling  on  her  arm.  We  stayed  till 
twelve,  and  I  took  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  home.  I  am  very 
sorry  she  is  going  away,  for  I  like  her  extremely,  and  I 
find  my  Whist  party  very  comfortable.  I  have  declined 
going  to-night,  as  I  expect  Mr.  C. 

"  I  never  saw  such  a  fool  as  poor  Miss  Vanneck  is  ! 
She  has  a  great  hesitation  in  her  speech,  and  the  only 
words  she  articulates  well,  and  those  she  uses  every 
minute,  are  "  My  gracious."  I  really  was  quite  sick  of 
"  My  gracious  "  last  night.  Poor  girl  however,  she  is 
very  inoffensive.  How  unfortunate  Lord  and  Lady 
Huntingfield  are  in  their  family.  Their  eldest  son  is  a 
terrible  gambler,  and  their  youngest  has  epileptic  fits. 
Their  eldest  daughter  has  most  dreadful  health,  and 
their  youngest  Miss  Caroline  (the  one  above  mentioned) 
is  I  think  very  few  degrees  removed  from  an  idiot. 

"  Firle,  September  1st. — Mr.  C,  Felix  and  I  came  here 
(Lord  Gage's)  yesterday.  We  arrived  in  time  to  dress  for 
dinner.  The  party  in  the  house  consists  of  themselves, 
and  two  sons,  Lady  Caroline  Bertie,2  and  her  brother 


1  George,  3rd  Earl  of  Pomfret,  married  in  1793  Mary,  daughter  and 
heiress  of  Thomas  Trollope  Browne  of  Gretford,  Lincolnshire. 

2  Lady  Caroline  Bertie  married  in  1821  Charles  John  Baillie  Hamil- 
ton, Esq.,  m.p.,  and  died  1870. 


86     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

Mr.  Peregrine  Bertie.1  These  are  near  relations  of  Lady 
Gage's,  and  have,  since  the  death  of  their  parents,  Lord 
and  Lady  Abingdon,  lived  with  the  Gages,  who  are  their 
guardians.  I  do  not  admire  Lady  Caroline  ;  she  seems 
very  silly.  In  addition  to  these,  Mrs.  Ogle,2  one  of  Lord 
Gage's  sisters,  is  here.  She  is  a  very  pleasing  woman, 
and  I  like  Lord  and  Lady  Gage  much.  Felix  and  the  eldest 
boy  have  been  out  shooting  all  the  day.  Four  officers 
also  dined  here  yesterday  ;  Colonel  Fuller,  Lord  Gage 
and  I  played  a  rubber  at  Whist.  This  is  an  ugly  place, 
an  ugly  country,  and  I  think  a  disagreeable  house,  but 
I  am  partial  to  the  family. 

"  September  yd. — I  walked  yesterday  morning  with 
Lady  Gage  and  Felix,  to  see  a  monkey.  We  sat  at  work 
the  rest  of  the  day.  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Vansittart  3  came 
before  dinner  and  are  still  here.  He  is  a  plain,  thin  man  ; 
she  (a  daughter  of  Lord  Auckland's)  rather  pretty  and 
very  pleasing,  Lord  and  Lady  Chichester,4  and  Lord 
Sydney  Osborne,  a  youth  of  about  eighteen,  half  brother 
to  Lady  Chichester,  dined  here  yesterday,  but  went  away 
before  supper.  Lord  C.  is  a  gentlemanlike  pleasing  man, 
Lady  Chichester  gentle,  civil,  and  apparently  amiable, 
but  formal  and  stiff  in  looks  and  appearance.  She  looks 
at  least  ten  years  older  than  she  is,  and  she  dresses 
herself  in  a  starched  precise  way.  But  there  is  something 
about  her  I  like,  and  I  am  sure  she  is  good. 

1  The  Hon.  Peregrine  Bertie,  son  of  the  4th  Earl  of  Abingdon,  was 
born  1790,  and  died  1849. 

2  Charlotte  Margaret,  daughter  of  General  the  Hon.  Thomas 
Gage,  Commander-in-Chief  of  H.M.  forces  in  North  America,  and 
sister  of  Henry,  3rd  Viscount  Gage,  married  in  1802  Captain  Charles 
Ogle,  r.n.,  son  of  Admiral  Sir  Chaloner  Ogle,  Bart.  She  died  in  18 14. 
Her  husband  became  acting  post-captain  at  the  age  of  nineteen,  the 
youngest  ever  known.  He  succeeded  his  father  in  18 16  as  2nd  Baronet, 
and  became  Admiral  of  the  Fleet  in  1857. 

3  Col.  Arthur  Vansittart  of  Shottesbrooke,  Berks,  married  in  1806 
the  Hon.  Caroline  Eden,  daughter  of  the  1st  Lord  Auckland. 

4  Thomas  Pelham,  2nd  Earl  of  Chichester,  born  April  28th,  1756, 
represented  the  county  of  Sussex  for  many  years  in  Parliament, 
and  was  Secretary  to  Lords  Northington  and  Camden  when  they 
filled  the  office  of  Viceroy  in  Ireland.  He  married  1801  Lady  Mary 
Henrietta  Godolphin,  daughter  of  the  5th  Duke  of  Leeds,  and  died 
1826.    Lady  Chichester  died  1862. 


i8o7]  SIEGE  OF  COPENHAGEN  87 

"  I  am  rather  hurt  by  Felix  behaving  in  a  cross  sort  of 
way  to  me.  I  think  he  cannot  be  sensible  of  the  unpleasant- 
ness of  his  manners,  or  he  would  endeavour  to  correct 
them.  I  cannot  express  how  it  frets  me ;  I  could  have 
cried  with  vexation  last  night,  for  it  makes  him  appear 
to  such  disadvantage.  This  morning  he  never  even  said 
1  Good  morning  '  to  me,  and  yet  I  have  stayed  on  purpose 
to-day  to  give  him  another  day's  shooting.  When  I  am 
no  more,  he  will  read  this,  and  will  know  how  much  I 
felt  his  conduct,  but  I  trust  he  will  have  corrected  him- 
self long  before  that. 

"  Brighton,  September  4th. — We  took  our  leave  of  the 
family  this  morning,  and  a  more  amiable,  worthy  family 
I  never  met  with.  I  delight  in  both  Lord  and  Lady  Gage. 
Felix  has  never  spoken  a  word  to  me  since  the  night 
before  last.  What  can  possess  him,  for  I  am  sure  he 
loves  me  ?  I  hope  he  won't  go  away,  without  making  me 
an  apology,  for  I  think  I  ought  not  to  speak  to  him  till 
he  does,  and  yet  I  shall  not  like  to  let  him  go  without 
blessing  him.  He  and  Mr.  C.  are  to  set  out  to-morrow 
on  a  tour  to  Portsmouth,  and  divers  places. 

"  September  $th. — My  beloved  Felix  made  me  an 
apology  yesterday.  If  he  knew  how  my  heart  yearned 
to  forgive  him,  he  would  never  put  it  off.  I  cannot  think 
what  possessed  him  to  behave  so,  indeed,  I  believe  he 
does  not  know  himself,  but  I  trust  in  God  it  never  will 
occur  again.1 

■'  This  morning,  soon  after  nine,  Mr.  C.  and  Felix  set 
out  on  their  tour.    They  go  on  Monday,  to  Portsmouth. 

"  September  6th. — We  have  landed  our  forces  in  the 
Island  of  Zeeland — we  have  invested  Copenhagen,  and 
begun  a  regular  siege.  Bloody  work  is  expected,  as  the 
Danes  seem  determined  on  resistance.  Stralsund  has 
surrendered  to  Bonaparte. 

"  September  nth. — I  had  a  letter  from  Mr.  C.  from 
Portsmouth.    He  and  Felix  had  met  Sir  Charles  Hamil- 


1  On  April  27th,  1808,  Mrs.  Calvert  wrote  in  her  Diary:  "  It  never 
has,  God  bless  him  !  " 


88      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1807 

ton,1  who  had  shown  them  the  Docks,  and  taken  them 
on  board  his  ship,  the  Temeraire. 

"  Paine 's  Hill,2  September  20th. — On  Friday  morning, 
Isabella,  Timewell  [her  maid],  and  I  set  off  from  Brighton, 
and  arrived  here  soon  after  five.  We  found  nobody  here 
in  addition  to  Eliza  Luttrell  3  (who  lives  here)  but  Miss 
Canning.  Mr.  Secretary  Canning  came  here  in  the  morn- 
ing. I  don't  like  the  Secretary.  I  thought  he  made  me 
a  very  uncivil  bow,  when  his  niece,  Miss  Canning,  intro- 
duced me.  We  have  been  to  Church  to-day,  and  since 
then,  I  have  been  with  Lady  Carhampton  in  her  little 
phaeton.  We  went  to  see  Lady  Tankerville.4  We  drove 
home  through  Oatlands  Park,  the  Duke  of  York's.  This 
place  is  beautiful,  and  the  weather  is  delightfully  fine, 
but  cold  enough  to  have  good  fires. 

"  September  2yd. — Lady  Tuite,5  who  lives  near  this, 
dined  here  yesterday — she  is  a  widow,  entertaining,  but 
very  eccentric.  She  is  more  like  a  man  than  woman  in  her 
pursuits,  but  she  rather  amuses  me. 

"  September  25th. — Miss  Canning,  Isabella  and  I  drove 
yesterday  to  Hampton  Court  to  see  the  Palace,  and  were 
very  well  amused. 

"  Bonaparte  I  hear  told  the  Queen  of  Prussia  that, 
when  he  was  at  Warsaw  he  had  fruit  constantly  brought 
there  from  Paris,  for  his  beloved  Josephine." 

On  returning  to  Hunsdon  Mrs.  Calvert  heard  to  her 
grief  and  surprise  that  her  son  Felix  had  made  up  his 
mind  to  choose  the  Army  as  his  profession. 

1  Sir  Charles  Hamilton,  2nd  Bart.,  k.c.b.,  Admiral  of  the  Red,  married 

1803  Henrietta,  the  only  daughter  of  George  Drummond.    He  died  1849. 

a  Paine's  Hill,  Cobham,  Surrey,  the  seat  of  the  Earl  of  Carhampton. 

3  Elizabeth,  eldest  daughter  and  co-heiress  with  her  sister,  Honora, 
Countess  of  Cavan,  of  Sir  Henry  Gould,  one  of  the  Justices  of  the  Court 
of  Common  Pleas  in  England.  She  married  April  26th,  1778,  the  Hon. 
Temple  Simon  Luttrell,  third  son  of  Simon,  1st  Earl  of  Carhampton. 
He  died  February  14th,  1803,  without  issue. 

4  Emma,  younger  daughter  and  heiress  of  Sir  James  Colebrooke, 
Bart.  ;    died  1836. 

6  Elizabeth,  widow  of  Sir  Henry  Tuite,  daughter  of  T.  Cobbe,  Esq., 
of  Newbridge.    She  died  in  1850,  aged  eighty-five. 


i8o7]  SIR  JOHN  MOORE  89 

"  His  father  neither  approves  nor  disapproves,  but  says 
that  if  he  is  in  the  same  mind  at  Christmas,  he  shall  not 
prevent  him." 

A  few  days  later,  however,  we  find  Felix,  who  evi- 
dently knew  his  own  mind,  calling  on  his  cousin,  General 
Calvert,  who  at  that  time  was  Adjutant-General,  and 
likely  to  be  a  very  useful  friend  to  him.  Those  were 
not  the  days  of  stiff  examinations.  In  another  month 
Mr.  Calvert  had  decided  on  purchasing  an  ensigncy  in 
the  52nd  Regiment  for  Felix. 

"  General  Sir  John  Moore  is  the  Commander,  and  they 
say  he  is  a  remarkably  good  one,  and  very  strict  in  his 
regiment.  The  first  battalion,  in  which  Felix  is  to  be, 
is  just  returned  from  Copenhagen." 

Mr.  Creevey,  who  was  not  given  to  indiscriminate 
praise,  speaks  thus  of  Sir  John  Moore  : 

"  Of  all  the  men  I  have  ever  seen,  General  Moore  is  the 
greatest  prodigy.  I  thank  my  good  fortune  to  have  seen 
so  much  of  him — such  a  combination  of  the  most  touch- 
ing simplicity,  and  yet  most  accomplished  manners,  the 
most  capital  understanding  captivating  conversation, 
and  sentiments  of  honour  as  exalted  as  his  practice."  * 

When  Mrs.  Calvert  went  back  to  Brighton  she  called 
on  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  who  took  her  all  over  her  new  house, 
kitchen,  etc.  "  It  is  very  compact  and  comfortable,"  she 
says. 

There  was  a  certain  Lady  Winchester  2  with  whom 
she  was  also  very  friendly. 

1  The  Creevey  Papers,  chapter  I,  page  n. 

a  Charles  Ingoldsby  Paulet,  13th  Marquess  of  Winchester,  married 
1800  Anne,  second  daughter  of  John  Andrews  of  Shotney  Hall, 
Northumberland.    She  died  1841. 


90      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1807 

"  She  really  is  a  good  humored,  pleasant  creature,  but 
often  indelicate  in  her  conversation,  which  puts  me  to 
the  blush.  She  dotes  on  her  husband  and  children,  of 
whom  she  has  six — fine,  chubby  red-headed  ones,  the 
eldest  six  years  old. 

"  Nov.,  1807. — Lady  Winchester  tells  me  she  has  heard, 
from  very  good  authority  that  the  Prince  don't  mean  to 
return  any  more  to  Brighton,  that  he  is  completely  tired 
of  Mrs.  Fitzherbert  and  means  to  spend  his  Christmas  at 
Ragley1  with  Lady  Hertford." 

Miss  Esther  Acklom,  to  Mrs.  Calvert's  great  annoyance, 
embarked  about  this  time  on  a  flirtation  with  her  sailor 
nephew,  Edmond  Knox.2 

"I  am  sorry  to  say  poor  Edmond  has  been  feeding 
himself  with  false  hopes  for  she  has  not  the  least  thought 
of  him.  She  has  a  way  of  encouraging  men,  without 
meaning  to  have  them,  and  I  gave  her  a  good  lecture  on 
the  subject. 

"  November  30^. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  at  night  to 
Mrs.  Fitzherbert 's.  I  think  she  looks  ill,  and  out  of 
spirits. 

"  December  12th. — Glentworth  3  has  followed  Felix's 
example,  and  is  going  into  the  ninth  foot.  I  am  sure  it 
is  necessary  we  should  have  a  great  many  military,  for 
we  are  now  at  war  with  nearly  all  the  world.  Russia  has 
declared  war  against  us.  Sir  John  Moore  with  seven 
thousand  troops  is  gone  from  Sicily  to  the  Tagus,  to  co- 
operate with  Sir  Sydney  Smith.  These  are  indeed, 
perilous  times  ! 

"  December  14th. — Miss  Brunt  on  was  married  yester- 

1  Ragley  Hall,  Warwickshire,  was  built  about  the  middle  of  the 
eighteenth  century  by  Lord  Conway,  an  ancestor  of  the  present  Mar- 
quess of  Hertford.  It  is  a  fine  house,  of  noble  size  and  proportions, 
and  stands  high.  The  park,  which  is  very  large,  contains  some  splendid 
oaks. 

2  The  second  son  of  the  Hon.  Thomas  Knox. 

3  Eldest  surviving  son  of  the  ist  Earl  of  Limerick,  and  father  of 
the  2nd  Earl. 


i8o8]  FELIX  JOINS  HIS  REGIMENT  91 

day  to  Lord  Craven — another  actress  is  become  a  Coun- 
tess.   She  has  a  very  good  character.1 

"  December  15th. — I  went  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  last 
night,  and  played  five  rubbers  at  Whist.  I  never  was 
more  tired,  but  they  could  not  make  up  the  table  without 
me,  so  I  would  not  break  it  up.  John  Knox  has  got  a 
Lieutenancy  in  the  sixty-sixth  Regiment. 

"  1808.  Jan.  yd.  Albemarle  St. — Felix  dressed  him- 
self in  his  regimentals  to-day  for  me,  and  really  looked 
very  handsome. 

"  January  6th. — My  beloved  Felix  sets  off  this  evening 
in  the  mail,  to  join  his  Regiment.    I  am  very  low. 

"  January  yth. — Mr.  C,  Felix,  and  I  dined  together. 
At  half  past  six  the  dear  boy  took  his  leave  of  us.  I  shed 
many  tears,  and  his  own  eyes  were  far  from  dry.  I  was 
low  and  wretched  all  the  evening.  God  Almighty  protect 
him,  and  spare  him  to  us. 

"  January  8th. — I  have  received  a  letter  from  my 
Felix  to  say  he  was  arrived  safe  at  Deal — had  been  to  call 
on  his  commanding  ofhcer,  Major  Arbuthnot,  and  had 
been  introduced  to  twenty  brother  officers. 

"  January  gth. — Our  wedding  day — nineteen  years.  I 
believe  I  may  safely  say  we  are  both  even  fonder  of  each 
other,  than  we  were  then. 

"  January  10th. — Doctor  Knighton  2  has  ordered  me 
to  be  bled  to-morrow,  and  keep  very  quiet  for  a  few 
days. 

"  January  13th. — Glent worth  has  just  left  me.  He  is 
grown  tall  and  thin,  and  is  a  gentlemanlike  young  man, 
but  a  great  puppy,  and  no  great  conjuror.    Felix  says  all 


1  Miss  Louisa  Brunton  was  a  celebrated  actress,  the  daughter  of 
John  Brunton  of  Norwich.  She  died  i860,  leaving  three  sons  and  a 
daughter. 

2  "  Sir  William  Knighton  (1776-18 36)  was  Keeper  of  the  Privy  Purse 
to  George  IV,  who  created  him  a  baronet  because,  as  His  Majesty 
remarked  to  Sir  Walter  Farquhar,  '  he  was  the  best-mannered  doctor 
he  had  ever  met.'  As  one  of  the  King's  physicians  he  possessed  an 
authority  over  his  weak  mind  which  few  of  his  ministers  enjoyed. 
He  attended  him  in  his  last  illness,  honestly  fulfilling  the  duties  of  a 
very  delicate  position"  {Die.  Nat.  Biography). 


92      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1808 

the  officers  are  very  kind  and  civil  to  him.  They  are  to 
march  to-morrow  to  Sandwich,  six  miles,  and  the  next 
day  twenty  two  miles  to  Ospringe,  where  they  are  to 
remain. 

"  January  15^. — I  am  as  cross  as  a  cat,  for  Miss  Acklom 
has  just  called,  and  sent  me  word  she  would  come  and  sit 
with  me.  I  can't  refuse  her,  but  I  can't  bear  her,  as  she 
behaved  so  ill  to  Charles,  and  Edmond.  She  persecutes 
me  with  her  visits. 

"  January  16th. — Lord  Winchester  paid  me  a  visit 
yesterday,  as  did  Lady  Normanton,  the  Archbishop  of 
Dublin's  wife.  She  is  a  pious  and  good-humored  ever- 
lasting chatterer.  Charles  Calvert,  and  all  the  Knox  boys 
visited  me.  Edmond  fortunately  escaped  Esther,  and  so 
did  Charles,  but  the  latter  says  he  don't  care  a  farthing 
about  meeting  her.  I  never  felt  anything  so  cold  as  the 
weather.    I  can  scarce  sleep  at  night  for  cold. 

"  January  iSth. — This  is  the  Birthday,  and  my  sister 
has  just  gone  by  to  Court.  I  hear  that  poor  Mr.  Barnard, 
who  was  married  to  Lady  Hardwick's  sister,  is  dead  at 
the  Cape.1 

"  January  igth. — I  dined  in  Grosvenor  Street  yesterday. 
In  the  evening,  there  was  a  very  good  Assembly.  Miss 
Acklom  has  at  last  found  out,  I  believe,  that  I  don't  like 
her,  for  she  was  as  cold  as  an  icicle  to  me.  I  think  Glent- 
worth  is  smitten  with  her.  He  was  there  in  his  regi- 
mentals, as  he  had  been  to  Court  in  the  morning. 

"  January  21st. — Poor  Edmond  Knox  came  to  take 
leave  of  me,  as  he  was  to  set  out  at  night  in  the  mail  for 
Plymouth.  He  is  appointed  to  the  Princess  Charlotte 
frigate. 

"  January  26th. — I  had  a  long  letter  from  dear  Felix 
yesterday.    He  was  in  a  great  fuss,  poor  fellow,  having 

1  Mr.  Andrew  Barnard  was  a  son  of  the  Bishop  of  Limerick.  He 
was  appointed  Colonial  Secretary  to  Lord  Macartney  at  the  Cape 
of  Good  Hope,  and  died  there  without  issue  1807.  He  married  1793 
Lady  Anne  Lindsay,  a  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Balcarres,  and  the 
authoress  of  "  Auld  Robin  Gray."  After  her  husband's  death  Lady 
Anne  returned  to  England,  and  lived  with  her  sister  in  Berkeley 
Square,  where  they  entertained  Burke,  Sheridan,  and  other  celebrities. 


i8o8]        UNE  FEMME  DE  QUARANTE  ANS  93 

lost  £20  out  of  his  pocket.  He  gives  me  a  whole  account 
of  his  military  duties  and  seems  very  happy.  John  Knox 
has  just  been  here.  He  has  got  his  lieutenancy  in  the 
twenty  seventh  foot,  Lord  Moira's  Regiment,  and  is  to 
go  out  in  a  month  to  the  Mediterranean.  He  is  in  high 
delight. 

"  January  31st. — Colonel  Eustace  paid  us  a  visit 
yesterday.  He  is  just  returned  from  abroad,  with  Lord 
Hutchinson,  whose  aid-de-camp  he  is.  They  were  a 
long  while  at  Petersburg,  and  lived  a  great  deal  in  the 
most  familiar  way,  with  the  Emperor  Alexander,  who, 
he  says,  is  a  prodigious  fine  young  man.  He  was  very 
favourable  to  us,  till  our  attack  on  Copenhagen,  which 
Eustace  says  has  set  the  whole  Continent  against  us. 

"  1808. — Poor  Lord  Gage  is  no  more.  Indeed,  I  am 
most  sincerely  grieved  for  him. 

"  February  2nd. — At  Lady  Bulkeley's  last  night  the 
thermometer  was  at  seventy,  too  warm  for  the  first  of 
February. 

"  February  4th. — To-day  I  am  forty  years  old — a  fine 
old  lady.  Mr.  C.  was  not  home  from  the  House  of  Com- 
mons till  near  seven,  and  obliged  to  be  up  again  at  nine 
to  attend  his  committee.  John  Knox,  to  his  great  joy, 
is  going  to  Sicily  instead  of  to  Ireland. 

"  February  6th. — We  dined  in  Park  Street.  Colonel 
and  Mrs.  Hamilton,  her  niece  Miss  Hope  Vere,  and  the 
Knox's  dined  there. 

"  February  nth. — Poor  Lord  Thomond  *  (past  eighty 
years  old)  was  killed  yesterday  in  Grosvenor  Square.  He 
fell  from  his  horse  and  an  errand  cart  going  by  ran  over 
him.  He  died  almost  instantly,  so  I  hope,  poor  man,  he 
did  not  suffer. 

"  February  20th. — Colonel  Hamilton  and  Miss  Hope 
Vere  2  (Mrs.  Hamilton's  niece)  called  on  me  yesterday. 

1  Murrough  O'Brien,  Earl  of  Inchiquin,  was  created  1800  Marquess 
of  Thomond  and  Baron  Thomond  of  Taplow.  He  married  first  1753  his 
cousin,  Mary,  Countess  of  Orkney,  and  secondly  Mary  Palmer,  niece  of 
Sir  Joshua  Reynolds.  At  his  death,  February  9th,  1808,  the  Barony 
of  Thomond  became  extinct. 

2  Miss  Hope  Vere  afterwards  married  Edmond  Knox. 


94      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1808 

The  latter  told  me  that  Captain  Ewart  of  the  52nd  had 
written  to  his  sister  from  Ospringe,  saying  he  had  found 
many  fine  young  men  there,  but  none  equal  to  young 
Calvert.  How  proud  I  felt  of  my  Felix  !  Poor  Lord  Lake1 
is  dead,  of  an  inflammation  on  his  lungs. 

1  He  was  by  birth  Gerald  Lake,  of  Aston  Clinton,  Bucks,  born  1744, 
a  brilliant  and  distinguished  soldier.  He  was  Commander-in-Chief 
in  India  (1 800-1 805),  and  in  conjunction  with  Lord  Wellington  brought 
the  Mahratta  War  to  a  successful  close,  after  the  battles  of  Delhi, 
Assaye,  and  Laswary.  He  received  the  thanks  of  Parliament,  and 
was  created  Lord  Lake  of  Delhi  and  Laswary.  He  married  1770 
Elizabeth  Barker.  Being  an  inveterate  gambler,  Lord  Lake  died  in 
great  poverty  1808. 


CHAPTER   VII 

Princess  Amelia  and  the  measles — Lady  Caroline  Lamb — Mel- 
bourne House,  Hamilton  Place — Felix  is  ordered  off — Carac- 
tacus — Death  of  Mrs.  Forde — Lady  Sarah  Spencer — The 
Princess  of  Wales — Engagement  of  Lord  Tavistock — The 
Smiths  of  Parndon — Good  news  from  Spain — Birth  of  Mary 
Felicia — Le  Malade  Imaginaire — Felix  in  Spain — Burning  of 
Co  vent  Garden  Theatre. 

1808. 

IT  so  happened  that  that  Spring  there  was  a  great 
epidemic  of  measles.  Princess  Amelia,1  who  had 
the  greatest  dread  of  them,  was  seized  while  at 
church  with  this  childish  but  troublesome  com- 
plaint. Mrs.  Calvert,  at  her  house  in  Albemarle  Street, 
was  enjoying  various  London  gaieties. 

"  My  sister  and  I  went  together  to  Lady  Caroline 
Lamb's  Assembly  at  Melbourne  House.  It  is  a  very 
fine  house,  and  the  crowd  was  immense,  but  by  walking 
to  the  carriage  we  got  away  very  well." 

Melbourne  House,  originally  owned  by  Fox,  stood 
next  to  Burlington  House  in  Piccadilly,  and  was  bought 
by  Lord  Melbourne  in  1770.  "  The  Courtyard  in  front 
was  at  that  time  enclosed  by  gates,  and  the  space  now 
covered  by  the  chambers  of  the  Albany  was  a  garden 
having  an  entrance  opposite  Savile  Row.  On  its  adorn- 
ment large  sums  were  lavished  by  Lady  Melbourne  with 
no  ordinary  taste  and  skill.    Cipriani  undertook  to  paint 

1  Princess  Amelia  was  the  youngest  daughter  of  George  III,  and 
his  favourite  child.  She  died  unmarried  in  November,  1810,  and 
grief  at  her  death  brought  on  his  last  attack  of  madness. 

95 


96      AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1808 

the  ceiling  of  the  ball-room.  Wheatley  embellished 
several  of  the  other  apartments,  while  to  Rebecca  * 
fast  rising  into  note  as  a  humorist  in  fresco — the  remain- 
ing decorations  were  assigned."  2 

One  is  inclined  to  think  that  the  craze  for  flowers  is 
quite  a  modern  one,  but  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  having 
gone  "  to  Tubb's  Nursery  Garden  in  the  King's  Road  to 
buy  some  flowers  for  my  room." 

She  visited  Lady  Harriet  Sullivan  in  Hamilton 
Place,  "  a  new  street  nearly  at  the  top  of  Piccadilly, 
opening  with  gardens  into  the  Park — a  most  delightful 
situation." 

In  a  charming  little  book  called  Wanderings  in  Picca- 
dilly, Mr.  Beresford  Chancellor  says  that  the  above  street 
was  so  named  after  the  Hamilton  who  was  Ranger  of 
Hyde  Park  during  the  reign  of  Charles  II.  ''The  houses 
in  this  street  were  rebuilt  by  Adam  in  1809  (?),  but  it 
was  not  until  sixty  years  later  that  the  street  was  carried 
through  to  Park  Lane,  and  became  its  chief  outlet  into 
Piccadilly." 

"  Hunsdon  House,  April  19th. — It  is  snowing  as  hard 
as  possible.  A  letter  from  General  Calvert  with  the 
unwelcome  news  that  my  beloved  Felix  is  ordered  upon 
immediate  service,  under  the  command  of  Sir  John 
Moore.  It  is  a  great  shock  to  me,  but  God's  will  be  done. 
Their  destination  is  Sweden. 

1  Memoirs  of  Viscount  Melbourne,  by  W.  M.  Torrens,  chapter  i, 
page  12. 

2  Biaggio  Rebecca  (1735-1808),  a  well-known  painter  and  Associate 
of  the  Royal  Academy,  was  a  native  of  Italy,  and  excelled  in  decorative 
painting.  Together  with  Cipriani  and  J.  F.  Rigaud,  he  obtained  a 
large  practice,  this  style  of  ornamentation  being  much  in  vogue  in 
most  important  houses  towards  the  end  of  the  eighteenth  century. 
Rebecca  was  employed  in  work  of  this  kind  at  Windsor  Castle,  where 
his  eccentricity  and  quaintness  caused  much  amusement  to  the  Royal 
Family.    He  died,  aged  seventy-three,  at  his  lodgings  in  Oxford  Street. 


i8o8]  A  SAD  PARTING  97 

"  Sir  John  Moore  kindly  gave  leave  to  Felix  to  come  up 
and  see  us  for  a  day  or  two.  He  arrived  by  the  night 
coach,  looking  remarkably  well.  He  delights  in  going 
this  expedition,  the  only  drawback  to  his  happiness  is 
my  not  liking  it.  He  says  I  was  his  first  thought  when 
he  heard  of  it.  Dear  boy,  he  is  everything  I  can  wish. 
He  went  yesterday  with  James  Knox  to  Englehart,1 
the  painter,  as  he  is  getting  his  picture  done  for  me. 

"  April  25th. — My  spirits  are  much  depressed  at  my 
beloved  boy's  going.  Dr.  Butler  2  visited  me  this  morn- 
ing ;  he  spent  yesterday  in  company  with  General  Moore, 
who  is  a  most  charming,  amiable  man.  He  asked  Dr. 
Butler  a  great  many  questions  about  Felix.  I  have  not 
seen  him  this  morning,  as  he  went  at  nine  o'clock  to 
Englehart  about  his  picture.  I  hope  it  will  be  like.  It 
will  be  such  a  comfort  to  me  in  his  absence. 

"  April  2jth. — Yesterday  was  indeed  a  most  dismal 
day  to  me,  as  I  parted  with  my  beloved  Felix.  He 
brought  me  his  picture  which  is  the  very  image  of  him. 
We  dined  at  half  past  four,  as  he  was  to  set  off  at  six. 
A  most  dismal  dinner  it  was  indeed.  I  will  not  dwell  on 
that,  or  our  leave  taking — indeed,  words  could  not  express 
what  I  felt. 

"  We  talked  of  nothing  but  him  yesterday  evening,  and 
agreed  that  there  never  was  a  boy  so  improved  in  every 
respect.  His  picture  was  under  my  pillow  last  night.  I 
must  take  it  to  Englehart  to  be  finished.  I  hope  he  will 
not  keep  it  long,  for  it  is  my  greatest  comfort,  and  I  look 
at  it  five  hundred  times  a  day. 

"  April  2gth. — I  continued  very  melancholy  all  Wednes- 
day, and  indeed  I  am  not  over  and  above  gay  now, 
though  everyone  says  it  is  a  most  desirable  expedition, 
and  attended  with  hardly  any  risk.     Never  was  any- 

1  George  Engleheart,  a  celebrated  miniature  painter,  exhibited 
at  the  Royal  Academy  from  1773  to  1812,  close  upon  forty  years. 
In  1790  he  was  made  miniature  painter  to  the  King,  who  greatly 
admired  his  work.  He  sometimes  painted  in  enamel,  but  his  principal 
works  are  on  ivory,  well  drawn  and  coloured,  and  full  of  power 
(British  Miniature  Painters  and  their  Works,  J.  J.  Foster). 

2  Head  Master  of  Harrow. 


98     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1808 

thing  like  my  dear  husband's  attention  and  affection 
to  me. 

"  The  accounts  in  the  papers  from  Sweden  are  good. 
They  say  the  Russians  are  retreating. 

"  April  30th. — I  got  in  yesterday  at  Lady  Limerick's. 
She  is  dreadfully  out  of  spirits.  Glen t worth  is  behaving 
as  ill  as  he  possibly  can,  and  they  are  much  afraid  of  his 
making  a  most  dreadful  match.  Limerick  has  solemnly 
sworn  that  in  that  case,  he  will  never  see  him  more.  I 
had  a  letter  from  Felix  this  morning,  saying  they  were 
to  embark  to-day  from  Ramsgate,  a  most  delightful  day 
— wind  quite  fair.  May  he  come  back  soon,  safe  and 
covered  with  glory  ! 

"  May  yd. — Limerick  has  set  off  for  Ireland  to  bring 
away  Glentworth  if  he  can.  They  hope  he  is  not  married, 
but  if  he  is,  he  will  break  it  if  possible.  The  young  lady, 
I  hear,  is  beautiful  and  pleasing,  and  only  seventeen. 
I  rather  pity  the  poor  girl. 

"  May  4th. — I  begin  a  new  Science  to-day — shoe- 
making.  It  is  all  the  fashion.  I  had  a  master  with  me 
for  two  hours,  and  I  think  I  shall  be  able  to  make  very 
nice  shoes.  It  amuses  and  occupies  me,  which  at  present 
is  very  useful  to  me. 

"  I  went  last  night  to  Mrs.  Beadon's,  a  dull  enough 
party,  but  in  truth  I  am  not  in  spirits  to  be  amused 
anywhere. 

"  May  $th. — At  half  past  ten  last  night,  I  went  to 
Lady  Eliot's,  who  was  to  have  an  Assembly.  Upon 
driving  to  the  door,  the  servants  informed  me  that 
something  had  happened,  which  prevented  her  seeing 
Company.  I  could  not  find  out  what,  but  this  morning 
I  find  there  are  great  fears  that  Lord  Royston  is  lost, 
coming  from  Russia  ;  he  is  her  nephew,  Lord  Hardwicke's 
son,  an  uncommon  clever  young  man.1  I  have  just 
finished  a  shoe  by  myself. 

"  May  8th. — Took  the  children  with  me  in  the  open 

1  Philip,  Viscount  Royston,  was  lost  in  a  storm  off  Liibeck,  April 
1st,  1808.    Lord  Hardwicke's  two  remaining  sons  died  young. 


i8o8]  DEATH  OF  MRS.  FORDE  99 

carriage  to  Kensington  Gardens,  where  they  walked  and 
I  sat.  My  sister  and  I  went  to  the  Play.  It  was  '  Carac- 
tacus,1  a  Ballet ' — very  stupid,  and  I  think  very  improper 
to  represent  on  our  stage  at  present — an  English  King 
going  conquered  in  chains  to  Rome  !  All  the  fighting 
made  me  melancholy,  and  I  went  home  at  night  quite 
dispirited. 

"  May  gth. — I  do  not  like  the  accounts  to-day  from 
Finland.  My  mind  is  in  a  constant  state  of  anxiety,  and 
it  is  so  hard  to  arrive  at  the  truth.  I  am  amusing  myself 
at  present  reading  Voltaire's  '  Life  of  Charles  the  Twelfth/ 
everything  relating  to  Sweden  interests  me. 

"  May  nth. — I  received  a  letter  yesterday  from 
Yarmouth  Roads,  from  my  beloved  Felix.  He  says  they 
are  very  tired  of  being  detained,  and  a  senior  officer  had 
come  on  board  and  deprived  him  of  his  cot,  so  that  he 
was  obliged  to  sleep  on  the  floor  in  a  tiny  cabin.  My 
Mother  called  on  me  yesterday  morning  to  tell  me  of  the 
death  of  poor  Kitty  Forde,  Lady  Darnley's  sister.2  Her 
death  was  very  sudden.  She  appeared  perfectly  well, 
dined  out — went  to  a  Ball,  and  while  playing  at  cards, 
was  taken  ill,  and  died  in  the  carriage  going  home.  She 
was  expecting  a  child  for  the  six  and  twentieth  time ! 3 
She  is  universally  regretted,  being  a  most  amiable  woman. 

"  May  12th. — I  went  to  see  my  Mother  in  the  evening, 
and  stayed  a  short  time,  but  was  forced  to  return,  for  my 
coachman  nearly  tumbled  off  drunk,  from  the  box.  I 
insisted  upon  getting  out  in  Park  Lane,  and  walked  back 
to  my  Mother's,  and  my  sister's  carriage  took  me  home. 
I  have  forgiven  my  coachman  this  once. 


1  Caractacus,  by  W.  Mason,  was  published  1759.  It  was  styled 
by  Horace  Walpole  "  a  barbarous  exhibition."  Dr.  Doran,  on  the 
contrary,  pronounces  it  "  a  noble  effort." 

2  She  was  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Rt.  Hon.  William 
Brownlow  of  Lurgan,  and  married  in  1782  Matthew,  eldest  son  of 
Matthew  Forde  of  Seaforde,  by  his  wife  Elizabeth  Knox,  sister  of 
Thomas,  1st  Viscount  Northland. 

3  In  twenty-six  years  !  She  married  in  1782,  and  died  in  1808. 
But  I  am  assured  by  her  grand-daughter  that  she  only  had  in  all 
twenty-one  children. 


ioo    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1808 

"  May  14th. — Glent worth  is,  I  believe,  certainly 
married.  Lord  Limerick  insists  on  their  not  being  ad- 
mitted into  the  house  should  they  come  to  London. 
What  a  feeling  for  a  mother  to  be  obliged  to  turn  from 
her  door  a  beloved,  though  offending  child  ! 

"  May  iSth. — I  took  my  children  to  see  my  sister's 
supper  tables  and  rooms  laid  out,  as  she  was  to  have  a 
ball  at  night.  I  went  home  and  dressed,  and  then  went 
with  Mr.  C.  to  Grosvenor  Street.  It  was  a  very  smart, 
good  ball,  but  what  made  it  particularly  pleasant  to  me 
was  that  I  heard  an  excellent  character  of  my  Felix. 
Captain  Ewart  saw  him  go  off  in  his  transport,  which 
happened  to  be  the  first,  and  led  the  way.  He  stood 
upon  deck,  throwing  up  his  hat  and  cheering,  and  the 
people  on  shore  gave  them  three  cheers.  I  slept  in 
Grosvenor  Street  last  night,  and  did  not  get  to  bed  till 
near  four.  My  Mother  was  there  till  past  one.  The  ball 
was  led  off  by  Lady  Sarah  Spencer,1  to  whom  my  sister, 
in  fact,  gave  the  ball.  The  Duke  of  Gloucester  was  there, 
but  the  Prince  did  not  come. 

"  Hunsdon,  May  21st. — The  accounts  from  Sweden  are 
very  unpleasant ;  the  Russians  are  succeeding  in  Finland, 
and  the  Swedes  in  Norway  have  been  repulsed  every- 
where. Alas  !  I  tremble  for  what  may  happen  when 
our  troops  arrive  there. 

"  Albemarle  Street,  Tuesday  24th. — My  Mother,  sister 
and  Mr.  Knox  visited  me  yesterday  ;  they  have  consented 
to  James  going  into  the  army,  and  mean  to  get  him  a 
commission  if  they  can  in  the  52nd. 

"  Felix  writes  that  they  fry  everything  in  oil.  Neither 
he  nor  Lord  Wellington  2  much  relish  that.  He  says 
he  thinks  they  are  coming  back  to  England,  which  he 
says  would  be  an  expedition  worthy  of  our  present 
ministry. 

"  We  dined  on  Tuesday  at  Mr.  Knox'.    Lord  and  Lady 

1  Lady  Sarah,  daughter  of  the  2nd  Earl  Spencer,  married  18 13 
William  Henry,  3rd  Lord  Lyttelton,  and  died  April  13th,  1870. 

2  This  must  have  been  a  slip  of  the  pen.  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley 
was  not  created  Viscount  Wellington  until  September  4th,  1809. 


MRS.    FORDE    OF    SEAFORDE 
From  a  miniature 


i8o8]  LADY  SALISBURY'S  CONCERT  101 

Rosslyn,1  Lord  and  Lady  Winchester,  Lord  and  Lady 
Bulkeley,  Mr.  Jekyll  (considered  a  great  wit),  Mr.  Lyttle- 
ton  (Lord  Lyttleton's  son) ,  and  Lord  Gower  (Lord  Staf- 
ford's son)  were  the  Company.  I  liked  Lord  Rosslyn  very 
much,  and,  being  one  high  in  the  army,  I  wish  to  culti- 
vate his  acquaintance  on  my  Felix's  account. 

"  Yesterday,  Mr.  C,  Isabella,  and  I  went  to  dinner  at 
Limerick's.  We  found  Limerick  just  arrived  from  Ire- 
land. He  vows  vengeance  against  Lord  Glentworth,  who 
he  has  not  seen,  and  declares  he  never  will  see  him,  but  I 
hope  he  will  relent.    /  am  not  for  implacability. 

"  I  have  just  had  a  letter  from  Edmond  and  Nicolson. 
Two  Spanish  grandees  arrived  yesterday  to  solicit  our 
aid,  they  say,  and  it  is  also  added  that  they  bring  word 
that  several  of  the  provinces  in  Spain  are  in  a  state  of  in- 
surrection against  the  French,  but  there  are  so  many  lies, 
one  does  not  know  what  to  believe. 

"  Hunsdon,  Sunday  evening,  June  4th. — On  Friday  in 
the  evening  I  went  to  a  concert  at  Lady  Salisbury's* 
Catalani,  Seboni,  Naldi,  and  many  others  sung,  but  I 
believe  I  have  not  a  musical  soul,  for  I  was  very  tired  of  it, 
and  nearly  asleep  once  or  twice. 

"  This  morning  brought  me  a  letter  from  my  beloved 
Felix,  still  cooped  up,  as  he  says,  on  board  their  trans- 
ports in  Gottenburgh  Roads. 

"  Isabella,  Lavinia,  and  I  went  to  Church  to-day.  I 
dined  at  three  with  them,  and  at  five  we  went  to  pay 
Edmond  and  Nicolson  a  visit  at  Haileybury.  I  never  saw 
anybody  in  such  spirits  as  Nicolson.  They  got  into  the 
carriage  with  us  ;  his  little  tongue  ran  incessantly  ;  he  is 
delighted  with  school.  He  has,  he  says,  '  licked  '  some 
boys,  and  has  been  '  licked  '  himself,  but  he  don't  mind 
it.2  I  thought  Edmond  seemed  very  grave,  but  he 
assured  me  he  was  quite  well. 

1  Sir  James  St.  Clair  Erskine,  Bart.,  succeeded  his  uncle  as  2nd 
Earl  of  Rosslyn  1805.  He  married  1790  Henrietta,  eldest  daughter 
of  the  late  Hon.  Edward  Bouverie.  She  died  in  18 10  ;  Lord  Rosslyn 
in  1837. 

2  One  hardly  thought  that  "  licking  "  was  so  archaic  an  expression. 


102    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1808 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  Sunday,  June  igth. — On 
Friday  I  left  Town  with  Mrs.  Robinson,  for  Blackheath, 
soon  after  two,  and  in  about  an  hour  arrived  at  Lady 
Saltouns,  where  most  of  the  Company  were  assembled. 
The  Princess  of  Wales,  and  her  mother,  the  Duchess  of 
Brunswick,1  were  there.  The  Princess  has  certainly  a 
handsome  face,  but  she  wears  too  much  rouge.  Her 
person  is  bad,  being  short  and  fat,  and  she  had  on  a 
quantity  of  lace,  ill  put  on,  and  some  looking  not  too 
clean.  She  wore  silver  tipped  boots,  and  was  altogether 
rather  a  singular  figure.  She  has  no  dignity  of  manner, 
and  lets  herself  down  very  much  by  her  giggling  ways, 
dancing  about  wherever  she  is  asked.  The  Duchess  of 
B.  is  the  image  of  her  brother,  the  King — voice,  face, 
and  manner  are  so  alike,  you  could  not  fail  knowing  that 
she  belongs  to  his  family.  She  kissed  the  Princess  when 
she  came  into  the  room.  Between  four  and  five  we  went 
to  breakfast,  or  rather,  dinner.  It  was  very  handsome — 
a  profusion  of  fruit,  etc.  etc.  They  began  dancing  on  the 
Lawn  behind  the  house.  The  Princess  did  not  dance 
while  I  staid,  but  I  heard  she  intended  doing  it  later. 
At  a  little  before  eight  Mrs.  Robinson  and  I  left  Black- 
heath,  and  she  set  me  down  here.    I  was  a  good  deal  tired. 

"  Tuesday,  June  28th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  at  half  past 
three  on  Sunday,  and  I  took  him  to  Waltham  Cross  in 
the  evening  on  his  way  to  London.  He  and  Sir  Joseph 
Yorke  went  on  together.  Isabella  and  Lavinia  were  with 
me.  We  got  home  about  nine.  Yesterday  evening  my 
Mother  arrived  to  tea,  and  this  morning  she  brought  me  a 
letter  from  my  beloved  Felix — still  in  Gottenburgh  Roads. 
He  is  completely  tired  of  being  cooped  up  in  a  transport 
— their  destination  still  unknown. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  July  3rd. — My  Mother  and  I 
dined  at  three  o'clock  at  Hunsdon  on  Friday,  and  set  out 
in  the  evening  for  this  place,  where  we  arrived  to  tea.  We 
found  Mr.  C.  and  Lord  Carhampton  had  dined  here,  and 

1  The  Duchess  of  Brunswick  was  by  birth  Augusta,  eldest  daughter 
of  King  George  II,  and  married  1764  Charles  William,  Duke  of  Bruns- 
wick Wolfenbiittel. 


i8o8]  ENGAGEMENT  OF  LORD  TAVISTOCK    103 

Lady  Arlington  came  in  the  evening.  There  is  great  news 
from  Spain,  and  we  are  in  hopes  we  are  in  possession  by 
this  time  of  the  French  fleets  at  Cadiz.  I  had  a  letter 
from  my  beloved  Felix — perfectly  well  thank  God,  but 
still  cooped  up  in  their  transports,  and  their  destination 
unknown.  We  all  went  yesterday  morning  to  a  break- 
fast, or  rather,  cold  dinner  at  Lord  Spencer's  at  Wimble- 
don. Mrs.  Beaumont  went  in  the  carriage  with  us.  It 
is  really  a  beautiful  place,  and  the  day  being  very  fine, 
and  an  immense  concourse  of  people  all  walking  about 
gaily  dressed  in  groups  was  very  pretty.  The  Spaniards, 
who  are  come  Ambassadors  from  the  Patriots,  who  have 
risen  to  oppose  Bonaparte,  were  there.  They  have  not 
I'air  noble,  and  I  do  not  believe  are  people  of  rank,  but 
two  of  them  have  rather  interesting,  sensible  counte- 
nances, in  spite  of  olive  complexions.  The  Duchess  of 
York  was  there — she  is  a  poor  little  dab  of  a  looking 
thing.  The  Dukes  of  Cambridge  and  Gloucester  were 
the  only  other  Royals  present.  Everybody  was  in  high 
spirits  at  the  Spanish  news. 

"  Lady  Anna  Maria  Stanhope  received  joy  upon  her 
approaching  nuptials  with  Lord  Tavistock.  It  is  a 
monstrous  match  for  her,  and  I  should  suppose  that  the 
Duke  of  Bedford  must  dislike  it — Lord  Tavistock  is 
barely  twenty — Lady  Anna  Maria  eight  and  twenty. 
She  is  well  spoken,  and  very  pretty,  but  I  think  the  con- 
nection (independent  of  the  disparity  in  years)  a  very 
exceptionable  one.  It  is  said  Lord  Hartington1  is  to 
be  married  to  Lady  Augusta  Greville,2  Lord  Warwick's 
daughter.  He  is,  I  believe,  not  older  (at  least  very  little 
older)  than  my  Felix.  I  think  it  a  terrible  thing  these 
boys  marrying  so  young,  but  this  match  as  yet,  is  only 
report.  He  certainly  is  very  attentive  to  her.  She  is  a 
very  pretty  girl,  but  I  should  imagine  she  is  twenty, 
which  is  older  than  him  by  above  two  years. 

1  This  match  never  took  place.  Lord  Hartington,  afterwards 
6th  Duke  of  Devonshire,  died  unmarried  1858. 

2  Lady  Augusta  Greville  married  182 1  Heneage,  5th  Earl  of  Ayles- 
ford,  and  died  1845. 


104    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1808 

"  There  is  a  report  in  '  The  Observer/  that  Joseph  Bona- 
parte (whom  Napoleon  had  sent  to  be  King  of  Spain)  is 
killed.  I  hear  the  Duke  of  York  has  applied  to  be  the 
Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Forces  going  to  Spain,  that 
Council  has  sat  upon  it,  and  that  he  is  to  be  refused,  which 
I  sincerely  hope  will  be  the  case,  he  being  by  far  the  most 
unfit  person  to  send. 

"  Hunsdon,  July  4th. — I  mean  to  stay  here  as  long  as 
I  have  courage  to  remain,  as  I  am  to  move  to  Town  to 
lie  in,  but  shall  put  off  leaving  the  Country  as  long  as 
I  can. 

"  Tuesday  evening,  July  $th. — Collings  is  just  arrived 
from  Town  on  her  return  from  Brighton,  and  she  brings 
me  word  that  the  2nd  Battalion  of  the  52nd  are  under 
orders  for  Spain.  My  poor  sister,  she  says,  is  in  despair, 
as  James,  who  is  just  gone  into  the  52nd  is  to  go  with 
them.  I  pity  her  from  my  heart.  The  news  from  Spain 
continues  to  be  good,  but  alas,  there  is  a  great  deal  to  do 
yet! 

"  Thursday  evening,  July  yth. — Yesterday  morning  we 
received  a  letter  from  Walter,  stating  a  melancholy  event. 
Poor  Tom  Calvert  (son  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thomas  Calvert) 
dropped  down  dead  on  Monday  night,  or  rather,  Tuesday 
morning,  while  dancing  a  reel  at  Lady  Campbell's  ball. 
Baillie  x  was  sent  for  directly,  who  said  he  was  dead 
actually  before  he  fell.  He  added  that  it  might  be  a 
satisfaction  for  his  family  to  know  that  he  could  not  have 
lived  a  year,  his  frame  and  constitution  were  so  delicate. 
He  was  just  twenty.  I  saw  him,  poor  boy,  apparently  in 
perfect  health  at  Lady  Spencer's  breakfast.  How  much 
to  be  pitied  his  poor  parents  are  to  have  him  brought 
home  a  corpse  to  them  ! 

"  Walter,  who  is  returned  from  Town,  has  sent  the 


1  Dr.  Matthew  Baillie,  morbid  anatomist,  and  brother  to  Joanna 
Baillie,  was  Physician  Extraordinary  to  George  III  and  lived  in 
Grosvenor  Street.  He  was  a  man  of  great  talent  and  acuteness, 
and  made  some  valuable  medical  discoveries.  His  health  was  ruined 
by  overwork,  and  he  died  of  phthisis  September  23rd,  1822,  at  the  age 
of  sixty-two. 


i8o8]  GOOD  NEWS  FROM  SPAIN  105 

Morning  Post  here  of  to-day.  There  is  no  fresh  news — I 
begin  to  long  for  a  letter  from  Felix. 

"  July  10th. — Mr.  C.  received  a  letter  from  General 
Calvert  to  inform  us  that  the  Brigade  under  Sir  John 
Moore  is  returning  directly  from  Sweden — that  they  were 
to  sail  the  2nd  so  we  may  now  hourly  expect  to  hear  of 
them  being  landed.  I  have  not  been  so  pleased  as  I 
otherwise  should  at  my  beloved  Felix  returning  home, 
as  I  feel  quite  certain  that  they  will  be  sent  directly  on 
some  other  Service.  The  accounts  from  Spain  continue 
very  favourable.  I  have  driven  most  days  to  Hoddesdon 
to  read  the  papers  that  come  down  by  the  coaches,  to  re- 
ceive besides  the  one  by  the  Post  in  the  morning,  a  paper 
by  the  Hadham  Coach  at  seven  in  the  evening.  We  are 
at  present  ravenous  after  News. 

'*  I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  my  Mother,  who  is 
settled  very  comfortably  at  Tunbridge,  and  expected 
Miss  Flint  and  Fanny  that  day.  I  got  a  letter  from  my 
sister  to-day  from  Tuxford  on  her  way  to  Ireland.  She 
is,  poor  soul,  wretched  at  parting  with  James.  He  was 
gone  (the  day  she  left  Town)  to  Ramsgate  to  join  the 
2nd  Battalion  of  the  52nd.  Poor  Tom  Calvert  was 
opened.  It  was  his  heart,  they  say,  and  he  could  not 
have  lived  many  months.  He  was  dancing  with  Miss 
Walpole  (Lord  Walpole's  daughter)  who  fainted  from  the 
shock,  and  was  carried  home  in  a  dreadful  way.  It  must 
have  been  a  terrible  scene. 

"  Tuesday,  12th. — They  have  got  excellent  accounts 
from  Spain.  They  have  got  possession  of  the  French 
fleet  in  Cadiz — Sir  John  Moore  not  yet  arrived.  The 
King  of  Sweden  and  he  had  a  quarrel — no  particulars 
have,  however,  as  yet  transpired. 

"  Thursday  night,  14th. — Very  good  accounts  still  from 
Spain.  Sir  John  Moore  not  arrived  yet,  but  a  ship  is 
arrived  which  passed  through  the  fleet  within  a  day's 
sail  of  England,  so  they  may  be  expected  every  hour. 

"  Sunday  evening,  lyth. — Bob  (who  is  at  the  Parson- 
age ;  he  came  last  night)  visited  me,  and  tells  me  that, 
just  before  he  left  Town  yesterday,  an  account  had  come 


io6    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1808 

to  the  Admiralty  that  Sir  John  Moore  and  his  trans- 
ports were  arrived  in  the  Town.  I  should  be  in  the 
transports  at  it,  only  I  feel  certain  that  they  will  be  sent 
directly  somewhere  else.  Mr.  C.  has  written  to  General 
Calvert  to  know  if  there  will  be  any  leave  of  absence 
given  to  officers  ;  if  not,  he  will  go  himself  to  see  our 
darling.  I  have  written  to  him  to-day,  and  hope  on 
Tuesday  to  receive  a  letter  from  his  dear  self.  Mr.  C, 
Isabella  and  I  have  been  this  evening  first  to  call  on  the 
Burgoynes,  who  were  not  at  home,  and  then  to  Mrs. 
William  Smith's,  Parndon.1  We  found  them  at  home, 
and  staid  there  till  nine.  He  is  a  very  sensible,  pleasant 
man,  and  she  is  not  unentertaining,  and  seems  a  good 
sort  of  woman.  She  is  a  little  of  a  blue  stocking,  but 
really  not  unpleasant.  They  have  ten  children,  five  of 
each  sort,  and  we  were  introduced  to  Patty's,  Joanna's 
Julia's,  Octavia's  etc.  etc.  till  I  thought  there  was  no  end 
of  them. 

"I  see  by  the  papers  that  the  2nd  Battalion  of  the 
52nd  are  embarked  for  this  new  expedition.  I  am  quite 
provoked  with  James  for  not  writing  to  me  before  he 
embarked,  as  I  wanted  to  know  something  about  him, 
and  their  destination  is  unknown. 

"  Albemarle  Street,  July  20th. — Yesterday  morning  Mr. 
C.  received  a  letter  from  General  Calvert  to  tell  him  that 
the  transports  were  gone  to  Spithead  to  re-victual  pre- 
paratory to  going  to  the  coast  of  Spain,  upon  which 
Mr.  C.  resolved  to  go  there  to  see  our  beloved  Felix.  We 
dined  yesterday  at  three  (as  I  determined  to  come  this 
far  with  him)  and  left  Hunsdon  a  little  after  five.  We 
stopped  coming  into  Town  at  Lord  Limerick's.  They 
made  me  stay  and  sup  with  them,  and  sent  me  home  at 
night.  Mr.  C.  had  business,  so  could  not  stay,  but  met 
me  here  soon  after  eleven. 

1  Mr.  William  Smith  was  the  father  of  Mrs.  Nightingale,  and 
grandfather  of  Florence  Nightingale.  The  Smiths  of  Parndon  were 
country  neighbours.  He  was  Member  for  Norwich  and  a  pronounced 
Abolitionist.  He  was  also  a  connoisseur  of  painting,  and  bought  a 
good  many  pictures  at  Antwerp. 


i8o8]  HATFIELD  HOUSE  107 

"  Mr.  C.  and  I  breakfasted  at  eight,  and  he  set  off  soon 
after  in  a  chaise  with  Byrne  for  Portsmouth.  God  pre- 
serve him  !  He  is  the  tenderest  and  kindest  of  husbands. 
I  believe  it  is  better  for  me  not  to  see  Felix  ;  the  taking 
leave  of  him  now,  would  be  too  much  for  me.  The 
accounts  from  Spain  and  Portugal  continue  to  be  ex- 
cellent, but  where,  alas,  is  anybody  safe  ? 

"  I  have  ordered  my  bed  to  be  put  in  the  back  parlor, 
against  I  come  back,  being  the  only  quiet  cool  place  in  the 
house.  Limerick  is  more  outrageous  than  ever  about 
Glentworth.    Poor  Lady  Limerick  is  very  low. 

"  July  24th. — I  have  received  a  letter  from  Mr.  C.  from 
Portsmouth.  He  was  writing  with  dear  Felix  sitting  by 
him.  He  says  he  is  very  much  grown,  and  delighted 
at  the  idea  of  going  to  Spain.  The  only  melancholy 
moment  he  ever  has  is  when  he  thinks  of  me. 

"  Hunsdon,  July  2jth. — Mr.  C.  arrived  last  night, 
having  left  Portsmouth  on  Monday.  Our  beloved  boy 
was  just  gone  on  board  his  transport  and  they  were  on 
their  way  to  Portugal.  Mr.  C.  says  he  believes  Felix 
loves  me  better  than  everybody  put  together.  He  saw 
Sir  John  Moore  twice  ;  he  spoke  very  familiarly  and 
kindly  to  Felix,  who  seemed  quite  at  his  ease  with  him. 

"  July  30th. — I  see  by  the  papers  that  Sir  John  Moore 
is  still  at  St.  Helen's  from  contrary  winds. 

"Albemarle  Street,  August  2nd. — On  Sunday  I  arrived 
at  Hatfield  House  in  time  to  dress  for  dinner.  There 
were  above  ninety  guests.  The  Judges,  Lord  Ellen- 
borough,1  and  Chief  Baron  Macdonald  were  there.  It 
was  very  hot,  and  I  was  very  tired,  otherwise  I  really 
should  have  liked  it.  I  left  Hatfield  for  Town  soon  after 
two.  I  sleep  in  the  back  parlor,  which  is  a  quiet,  cool 
room,  and  I  have  not  to  go  up  and  down  stairs. 

"  August  6th. — The  Duke  of  York  is  certainly  not  to 
go  to  Spain.    The  idea  of  his  commanding  our  forces  has 

1  Edward  Law,  born  1750,  soon  attained  eminence  and  celebrity 
as  a  lawyer.  In  1801  he  succeeded  Lord  Kenyon  as  Lord  Chief  Justice 
of  the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  and  the  following  year  was  raised  to 
the  Peerage  as  Baron  Ellenborough.     He  died  18 18. 


108    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1808 

created  universal  dissatisfaction.  The  Ministers  even 
say  they  never  thought  of  it,  and  that  it  was  only  an  ill- 
natured  story  of  the  Opposition. 

"  August  gth. — Yesterday,  hearing  that  there  was 
great  news  from  Spain,  I  drove  to  the  Horse  Guards, 
and  General  Calvert  was  so  good  as  to  come  down  to 
the  carriage  to  me.  He  did  not  believe  it,  however,  it 
turned  out  that  he  was  mistaken.  General  Dupont  has 
surrendered,  after  an  engagement.  All  his  troops  are 
prisoners  of  war,  and  all  his  baggage  is  taken.  His 
army  consisted  of  twelve  thousand  men,  and  there  was 
a  reinforcement  of  eight  thousand  more  coming  to 
him,  which  are  included  in  the  capitulation,  but  they 
are  to  evacuate  Spain,  and  return  to  France  by  sea. 
This  news,  General  C.  writes  me  word,  must  have  the 
most  favourable  effect  upon  the  operations  in  Portugal. 
How  cheering  this  is  !  God  grant  this  horrid  Bonaparte, 
the  oppressor  of  mankind,  may  be  hastening  to  his 
destruction. 

"  My  sister  is  very  low  at  not  hearing  from  James  or 
Thomas,  indeed,  her  sons  are  very  negligent  of  her — how 
unlike  my  precious  Felix  !  I  don't  think  Lucy  Pery 
mends;  she  is  sure  there  is  another  needle  in  her  leg, 
and,  poor  soul,  she  must  dread  it,  for  the  pain  of  cutting 
it  out  is  excruciating.  How  the  needles  got  in,  nobody 
can  conceive — the  one  in  her  side  was  two  inches  deep. 

"  August  10th. — I  drove  with  Mary  Pery  about  the 
Town  to  shops,  till  near  dinner  time.  There  was  a  good 
deal  of  thunder,  but  from  the  rattling  of  the  carriage, 
we  never  heard  it. 

"  August  nth. — Lady  Anna  Maria  Stanhope  was  mar- 
ried to  Lord  Tavistock1  two  days  ago.  The  Prince  of 
Wales  gave  her  away,  and  brought  her  a  present  from  the 
Queen,  of  a  superb  diamond  cross.  He  gave  her  himself 
some  fine  ornaments  of  precious  stones.  The  Duke  of 
Bedford  tied  his  mother's  pearls  round  her  neck,  and 

1  Lord  Tavistock  succeeded  his  father  as  7th  Duke  of  Bedford 
1839.     He  died  1861. 


i8o8]  BIRTH  OF  MARY  FELICIA  109 

somebody  gave  her  a  fine  lace  gown.  She  was  loaded 
with  ornaments,  and  had  a  wig  on,  cried  all  the  time, 
and  looked  very  ill.  But  at  seven  o'clock,  when  she  was 
going  out  of  Town,  she  changed  her  dress,  came  down 
in  a  round  muslin  gown,  with  her  own  hair,  a  cross,  and 
without  ornament,  and  looked  very  pretty.  She  is  at 
least  six  or  seven  years  older  than  Lord  Tavistock,  who 
is  not  quite  twenty  1 — foolish  boy  !  !  ! 

"  August  12th. — I  was  bled  yesterday,  and  felt  remark- 
ably well  all  day.  My  beloved  husband  arrived  about 
four  o'clock.  Joseph  Bonaparte  has  made  a  precipitate 
retreat  from  Madrid  and  carried  off  all  the  Royal  treasures. 
I  hope  he  may  be  intercepted. 

"August  24th. — Thank  God,  I  have  a  lovely  little  girl, 
whom  I  trust  Providence  will  preserve  to  me.  Mr.  C. 
left  Town  last  Friday,  but  I  expect  him  to-morrow,  and 
he  is  to  bring  Isabella  to  visit  me. 

"  August  25th. — My  little  woman  and  I  continue  very 
well.  Very  good  accounts  in  the  papers.  We  have 
liberated  Spanish  prisoners  from  the  Island  of  Funen 
to  the  amount  of  ten  thousand,  and  are  sending  them  to 
Spain. 

"  I  was  taken  very  ill  last  night,  and  thought  I  was 
dying.  I  sent  up  for  Mr.  C.  and  for  Dr.  Knighton,  who 
gave  me  port  wine,  and  cordial.  I  am  now  hourly 
mending. 

"  August  30th. — Mr.  William  Calvert  came  on  Tuesday 
and  churched  me,  and  at  five  o'clock  he  came  and  christ- 
ened the  dear  little  woman.  Her  names  are  Mary  Caroline 
Anne  Felicia,  after  my  beloved  Felix,  who  is  her  god- 
father. 

"  On  Friday  the  glorious  news  of  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley's 
victories  over  Junot  on  the  17th  and  21st  arrived.  I  was 
very  nervous  till  I  got  a  note  from  General  Calvert, 
assuring  me  that  the  first  Battalion  of  the  52nd  had  not 
arrived  in  time.    Poor  Captain  Ewart  is  wounded,  but  I 

1  Mrs.  Calvert  makes  a  slip  here,  for  Lord  Tavistock  was  turned 
twenty  when  he  married.  He  was  born  on  May  13th,  1788,  and  married 
on  the  8th  not  the  9th,  as  Mrs.  Calvert  states,  of  August,  1808. 


no    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1808 

hope  not  badly,  and  I  trust  James  Knox  is  safe  ;  they 
expect  hourly  to  hear  that  Junot  has  surrendered.  I 
trust  in  Heaven  there  will  be  no  more  fighting.  I  have 
seen  nobody  for  some  days,  but  Lady  Templetown  for  a 
few  minutes.  Isabella  reads  to  me,  and  Mary  Caroline 
Felicia  smiles  and  grows,  and  with  my  great  and  little 
girl,  I  am  very  comfortable. 

"  September  yth. — Isabella  read  Moliere's  '  Malade 
Imaginaire/  to  me — she  laughed  so  heartily  she  could 
scarcely  read.  This  morning  I  had  a  visit  from  Lord 
Longford,  who  is  brother-in-law  to  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley, 
and  has  had  two  letters  from  him.  They  hourly  expect 
despatches  to  announce  the  surrender  of  Dupont.  Sir 
A.  W.  is  now  superceded  ;  there  are  so  many  Generals 
arrived  in  Portugal  above  him  in  rank  (though  probably 
not  in  merit)  that  he  is  only  7th  in  command.  There  has 
been  no  account  of  our  troops  being  landed,  but  the 
transports  were  lying  safe  off  the  coast  of  Portugal. 
Lady  Clare  called  to  see  me  this  afternoon.  Her  daughter, 
Lady  Isabella  Fitzgibbon  was  with  her — a  genteel,  slim 
looking  girl,  of  not  quite  thirteen.  I  don't  think  she  will 
ever  be  as  handsome  as  her  mother. 

"  I  hear  Glentworth  has  been  very  ill,  and  I  think 
there  is  a  chance  that  Limerick  will  forgive  him  in  time. 

"  September  16th. — The  Easts  came  to  me  on  Monday 
evening,  Mrs.  E.  vulgar  and  loud  as  usual — Mr.  E.  quiet 
and  gentlemanlike.  Miss  Anne  Eliza  the  ditto  of  Miss 
Jenny  Wronghead — pert  and  talkative — and  Mr.  Jeremy 
East  a  chattering  pert  Jackanapes — so  much  for  my 
Company. 

"  Junot  and  his  army  are  to  evacuate  Portugal  and 
the  Russian  Fleet  is  to  be  in  our  possession  till  six  months 
after  peace  is  concluded  between  England  and  Russia. 
These  terms  are  not  as  favourable  as  we  were  led  to  hope, 
but  I  must  consider  them  good,  as  there  has  been  no 
fighting. 

"  Felix  writes  from  the  Camp  near  Cintra  that  he  is 
sleeping  on  the  ground  under  tents  made  of  the  boughs  of 
trees,  which  neither  keep  out  cold  nor  wet.    He  was  sorry 


i8o8]  BURNING  OF  COVENT  GARDEN  THEATRE  in 

he  had  not  brought  his  Camlet  cloak,  as  his  blanket  did 
not  half  cover  him.  He  regretted  much  not  having 
been  in  the  engagement,  and  envied  James,  who,  he 
says,  carried  a  soldier's  firelock,  and  I  don't  know  how 
many  ball  cartridges,  and  fired  away  at  the  French. 
He  says  that  grapes  are  growing  quite  ripe  on  the  road- 
side, but  that  he  eats  sparingly  of  them.  He  says  the 
people  in  the  villages  they  pass  through,  are  very  fond 
of  them,  and  cry  '  Viva,  viva,  en  Angleterra  and  Portu- 
gal.' 

"  September  18th. — General  Calvert  paid  me  a  visit  this 
morning.  He  says  that  the  greatest  dissatisfaction 
prevails  about  the  terms  that  have  been  made  with  the 
French — the  King  is  very  much  displeased,  and  the 
Generals  who  signed  it,  will  certainly  be  brought  to  an 
account.  I  took  General  Calvert  back  in  the  carriage 
with  me  to  Kensington.  When  I  came  home  I  had  a  long 
visit  from  that  everlasting  gossip  Lady  Crofton.  My 
Felix  is  now  a  lieutenant. 

"  September  20th. — Covent  Garden  Theatre  is  burnt 
down,1  and  many  lives  lost. 

"September  25th,  Hunsdon. — We  left  Town  on  Thursday 
to  my  great  joy.  Isabella,  Mary  Felicia  and  I.  We  found 
Mr.  C.  and  the  children  in  perfect  health,  and  delighted 
to  see  us. 

"  September  28th. — Isabella  and  Lavinia  read  Homer's 
1  Odyssey.' 

"  October  1st. — A  letter  on  Friday  from  Felix  in  perfect 
health.  They  had  got  into  tents,  but  had  neither  got 
bedding  nor  baggage.  James  Knox  had  been  ill  from 
eating  too  many  grapes,  but  is  now  quite  well  again. 

"  October  2nd. — Mr.  C.  and  I  are  to  set  out  to-morrow 
on  a  round  of  visits.  We  go  first  to  Gaddeston  Park, 
Mr.  Halsey's. 

"  October  6th. — We  arrived  soon  after  six,  dressed  after 
dinner,  and  there  was  a  great  ball  at  night,  and  a  large 

1  Covent  Garden  Theatre  was  destroyed  by  fire  on  September  20th, 
1808,  but  as  the  managers  opened  the  Opera  House  six  days  after- 
wards, the  performers  suffered  little  loss. 


ii2    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1808 

party  in  the  house.  Mr.  Henry  Brand  x  is  very  well 
looking  and  pleasing. 

"It  is  a  thousand  pities  that  he  is  married  to  the 
divorced  Lady  Gordon.  I  like  the  Halseys  much  ;  he  is 
a  very  well  conducted  man ;  she  a  good-tempered, 
merry  little  creature,  but  would  not  set  the  Thames  on 
fire.  Mrs.  Halsey  and  I  went  in  the  donkey  cart  yesterday 
to  visit  the  Miss  Greens.  I  think  the  donkey  cart  the 
most  disagreeable  equipage  I  ever  was  in.  I  begin  to  be 
very  impatient  to  get  home,  if  only  to  kiss  my  dear 
little  Mary  Felicia. 

"  Beechwood,  October  10th. — We  found  in  the  house  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Martin ;  he  is  a  good  sort  of  man,  but  vulgar. 
He  made  his  fortune  in  the  East  Indies,  and  is  now  a 
banker.  Mrs.  Martin,  though  an  apothecary's  daughter, 
is  elegant  in  looks  and  manners,  and  extremely  pretty. 
Mr.  Brown  is  a  great  astronomer,  and  mathematician  ; 
always  wrapt  up  in  the  clouds,  and  consequently  not 
particularly  agreeable.  There  was  also  l'Abbe  Vincent, 
who  teaches  the  girls  Geography  and  French.  But  I 
think  all  foreigners  detestable.  We  played  Commerce 
at  night,  and  in  the  morning  Lady  Sebright  and  I  drove 
to  visit  Lady  Bridgewater. 2  We  are  going  to  the  Hoo 
(Mr.  Brand's)  but  Lady  Sebright  don't  go. 

"  Oh,  how  I  should  hate  to  be  married  to  Sir  John  !  ! 
He  is,  I  think,  the  most  disagreeable  husband  I  ever  saw. 
He  was  very  cross  to  her  this  morning  when  she  cried. 
I  long  for  Thursday,  the  day  we  intend  going  home. 

"  Hunsdon,  October  13th. — We  arrived  at  Mr.  Brand's 
about  five  o'clock  on  Monday,  and  found  his  mother, 
Lady  Dacre  there.  I  like  her  very  much.  She  is  about 
fifty  seven,  very  pleasing,   cheerful,  and  gentlewoman- 

1  The  Hon.  Henry  Otway  Brand,  c.b.,  a  lieut. -general  and  colonel  of 
the  31st  Regiment,  who  distinguished  himself  in  the  Peninsula  War. 
He  married  Pyne,  second  daughter  of  the  Very  Rev.  and  Hon.  Maurice 
Crosbie,  Dean  of  Limerick,  divorced  wife  of  Sir  John  Gordon  of  Park, 
Bart.,  and  sister  of  William,  9th  Lord  Brandon.  He  succeeded  his 
brother  in  185 1  as  21st  Lord  Dacre,  and  died  in  1853. 

2  Charlotte  Catherine  Anne,  only  daughter  and  heiress  of  Samuel 
Haynes,  married  1783  General  the  7th  Earl  of  Bridgewater. 


i8o8]  LADY  DACRE  AT  THE  HOO  113 

like.  I  have  seldom  been  more  pleased  at  anyone. 
Miss  Brand  is  a  sensible,  pleasing  woman,  but  plain. 
We  left  the  Hoo  this  morning,  and  I  was  rejoiced  to  see 
my  darlings  again. 

"  October  16th. — My  beloved  Felix's  18th  birthday. 
Heaven  bless  and  preserve  him.  I  have  ordered  the 
servants  punch  to  drink  his  health  to-night.'* 


CHAPTER   VIII 

Invalids  at  Madeira — Country  visits — A  famous  brewer  and 
politician — Affairs  in  Spain — Mrs.  Calvert's  anxiety — Death 
of  Sir  John  Moore — Good  news  at  last — Return  of  the  troops 
— A  happy  meeting — The  Duke  of  York  and  Mrs.  Clarke — 
Burning  of  Drury  Lane  Theatre — Sir  David  Baird — Sydney 
Smith. 

1808. 

IN  those  days  Madeira  was  supposed  to  be  the  only 
cure  for  consumption,  but,  it  is  to  be  feared,  by 
no  means  a  certain  one.  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions 
that  Lord  Claud  Hamilton  *  died  there  (probably 
of  consumption)  and  her  cousin  George  Knox  2  had  gone 
there  with  his  wife,  who  was  threatened  with  the  same 
disease. 

"  1808. — A  Russian  and  a  French  messenger  are 
arrived  from  Tilsit  3  where  Bonaparte  and  Alexander  are. 
I  dare  say  it  is  some  insidious  overture  of  the  latter." 

At  Paine's  Hill,  where  Isabella  Calvert  and  her  mother 
went  on  a  short  visit  in  October,  the  company  come  in  for 
a  certain  amount  of  criticism. 

"On  Wednesday  morning  Lady  Clare4  and  I  were  mostly 

1  Second  son  of  the  Marquess  of  Abercorn  ;  he  was  born  1787, 
and  died  1808. 

2  The  Right  Hon.  George  Knox,  d.c.l.,  fifth  son  of  Viscount  North- 
land, married  1805  Anne  Staples,  who  died  181 1. 

3  The  Peace  of  Tilsit  had  been  concluded  on  July  7th  of  the  pre- 
ceding year. 

4  Anne,  daughter  of  Richard  Chapel  Whaley  of  Whaley  Abbey, 
married  1786  John  Fitzgibbon,  Lord  Chancellor  of  Ireland,  created 
in  1795  Earl  of  Clare.     He  died  1802.     His  countess  lived  till  1844. 

114 


i8o8]  A  FAMOUS  BREWER  AND  POLITICIAN    115 

together.  She  makes  the  good  amazingly  before  me,  and 
really  is  very  pleasant.  She  takes  great  pains  with  Lady 
Isabella's  1  education.  In  the  evening  a  Mrs.  Gunn,  with 
three  daughters  arrived.  I  never  saw  such  girls  as  the 
Miss  Gunns  !  2  They  sing  divinely  and  are  very  enter- 
taining, but  they  are  very  impudent  young  women, 
setting  their  caps  at  every  man  they  meet." 

Their  next  visit  was  to  Lord  Limerick. 

"  On  Sunday  the  clergyman  of  the  parish  dined  and 
supped  with  us,  an  elderly  man  named  Pettingall,  and 
the  greatest  curiosity  I  ever  saw.  He  does  not  want  for 
information,  but  talks  more  nonsense  than  anybody  I 
ever  met  with.  He  is  too  familiar,  and  too  fond  of  wine 
for  a  clergyman,  though  he  was  not  actually  drunk." 

A  long  drive  of  thirty-four  miles  took  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Calvert  to  Southill  Park  in  Bedfordshire.  Mr.  Whit- 
bread,  their  host,  was  Member  for  the  County,  and  a  very 
wealthy  man.  He  was  born  1758.  His  father,  the  elder 
Samuel  Whitbread,  had  entered  the  Brewery  as  clerk, 
and  by  dint  of  hard  work  and  good  luck  had  become  its 
owner  before  his  death.  His  son  married  in  1789  Eliza- 
beth, eldest  daughter  of  Sir  Charles,  afterwards  Lord 
Grey.  It  was  perhaps  partly  owing  to  the  rise  in  his 
social  position  that  Mr.  Whitbread  was  elected  as  Whig 
Member  the  following  year.  He  was  an  eloquent  speaker, 
and  from  the  year  1809  till  that  of  his  death  spoke  more 
frequently  than  any  other  Member  of  the  House  of 
Commons.  Latterly  his  mind  became  unhinged,  and  in 
1815  he  committed  suicide  at  his  town  house,  35  Dover 

1  Lady  Isabella  FitzGibbon,  born  January  ioth,  1796. 

2  The  daughters  of  George  Gun,  afterwards  Gun-Cuninghame,  of 
Mount  Kennedy,  by  Jean  Gordon,  his  wife.  They  were  at  one  period 
the  most  admired  belles  of  the  Viceregal  Court  of  Ireland,  one  of  them 
married  Francis  Jack,  2nd  Earl  of  Kilmorey. 


n6    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1808 

Street.    Mrs.  Calvert  remarks  in  her  shrewd  way  on  the 
occasion  of  this  visit. 

"He  is  certainly  a  clever  man,  but  I  cannot  help 
thinking  that  he  and  his  wife  Lady  Elizabeth  place 
themselves  on  too  high  a  form.1 

"  I  never  was  much  more  tired  of  being  anywhere,  or 
where,  without  rudeness,  there  was  so  little  pains  taken 
to  amuse  you.  Lady  Elizabeth  has  been,  I  believe, 
pretty,  though  there  is  an  expression  about  her  mouth 
particularly  disagreeable  to  me.  She  is  civil  enough  to  me, 
but  does  not  hit  my  fancy,  and  I  dare  say  I  do  not  her's. 

M  The  eldest  daughter  is  just  seventeen,  but  never 
appears  except  for  a  short  time  of  an  evening.  She  is 
always  educating — understands  Latin,  mathematics,  etc., 
but  appears  a  modest  unassuming  girl,  plain,  with  red 
hair,  and  a  good  figure.2  I  never  saw  so  attentive  a  hus- 
band as  Mr.  Whitbread  appears.  Lady  Elizabeth  has  a 
beautiful  suite  of  apartments  dedicated  to  herself,  in  fact 
she  and  her  daughters  inhabit  a  wing  entirely  to  them- 
selves. We  go  home  to-morrow,  to  my  great  joy.  My 
sister  sent  me  a  letter  from  James,  who  writes  in  very 
good  spirits.  He  says  the  females  are  very  handsome 
in  Portugal — with  beautiful  eyes.  James  is  very  fond 
of  the  fair  sex  !  '* 

Admirers  of  old  miniatures  may  be  interested  to  hear  of 

"  a  very  beautiful  one  of  Sir  Walter  Farquhar,  beauti- 
fully finished,  and  a  striking  likeness.  It  is  done  by  a 
man  called  Saunders,3  but  however  much  I  may  admire 

1  This  is  a  curious  but  expressive  phrase,  which  I  do  not  remember 
to  have  seen  elsewhere. 

2  Miss  Whitbread  married  in  1812  William,  8th  Earl  Waldegrave, 
and  died  1843. 

3  John  Sanders  or  Saunders,  born  1750,  son  of  John  Saunders,  a 
pastel  painter.  He  was  a  well-known  portrait  painter,  and  gained 
the  silver  medal  of  the  Royal  Academy  in  1770,  and  was  an  exhibitor 
there  the  following  year.  He  is  mentioned  by  Madame  d'Arblay  in 
her  Journal  as  painting  a  portrait  of  Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales. 
He  married  about  the  year  1780  at  Norwich  a  Miss  Arnold  of  that 
town,  and  died  in  1825,  leaving  five  daughters  and  a  son. 


i8o9]  MRS.  CALVERT'S  ANXIETY  117 

his  work,  I  am  not  likely  to  employ  him,  as  his  price  is  a 
hundred  guineas. 

"  There  are  very  proper  orders  in  the  papers  from  Sir 
John  Moore,  commanding  good  behaviour  on  the  part 
of  the  troops.  When  they  get  on  the  frontier  of  Spain, 
they  are  to  add  the  Spanish  cockade  (which  is  red)  to  the 
English. 

"  The  news  from  Spain  improves.  It  is  hoped  now  that 
a  junction  between  Sir  John  Moore  and  Sir  David  Baird 
may  be  effected. 

"  Dec.  10th. — Alas  !  the  various  reports  are  enough  to 
terrify  one.  I  believe  that  our  troops  are  retreating  to 
Portugal,  and  Sir  David  Baird  about  to  re-embark. 

"  Mr.  Warre  called  on  us  on  Saturday.  He  has  a 
nephew  in  Spain,  aide-de-camp  to  General  Ferguson. 
It  seems  we  have  been  much  deceived  in  supposing  the 
Spaniards  are  so  bitter  against  the  French.  On  the 
contrary  the  peasantry  say  that  if  they  are  to  be  plagued 
with  soldiers  they  would  just  as  soon  have  the  French 
as  us  ! 

"  Dec.  18th,  1808.  Three  days  later. — The  '  Globe  '  an- 
nounces in  the  French  papers  that  the  French  are  in 
possession  of  Madrid.  General  Hope  has  joined  Sir  John 
Moore,  and  there  is  an  easy  communication  between  him 
and  Sir  David  Baird.  Moore,  with  his  army  is  to  march 
to  the  borders  of  Portugal,  and  by  that  means  secure  a 
free  communication  for  provisions  and  troops  to  reach 
them.    They  say  we  shall  have  in  all  80,000  men. 

"  It  said  in  one  of  the  papers  that  when  Sir  John 
Moore  was  on  the  march  several  of  the  officers  when 
passing  through  towns  went  off  and  danced  till  summoned 
by  the  bugle.  I  don't  imagine  Felix  was  of  the  dancing 
party  ! 

M  Lord  Liverpool  is  dead.  Lady  Liverpool  has  been 
nearly  burnt  to  death,  but  the  papers  say  she  is  re- 
covering. 

"  1809.  January  yd. — From  the  papers  it  seems  likely 
that  Sir  John  Moore  and  the  French  will  soon  have  a 
battle.    May  God  preserve  my  darling. 


n8    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

"  Yesterday  there  was  a  report  in  London  that  the  King 
was  dead,  but  for  this  there  appears  to  be  no  foundation. 

"  I  have  had  a  letter  from  my  beloved  Felix  from 
Salamanca.  He  and  James  were  in  high  spirits,  and 
longing  to  march  against  the  French,  who  they  felt 
confident  of  beating. 

"  Lord  Grimston1  is  dead.  He  has  left  £30,000  apiece 
to  his  daughters. 

"  January  nth. — At  length  there  have  been  despatches 
from  Sir  John  Moore.  He  had  been  obliged  to  retreat 
in  consequence  of  Bonaparte  coming  suddenly  from 
Madrid  with  such  a  force  that  he  could  not  possibly  have 
withstood  them.  He  was  arrived  at  Astorga  and  was 
to  retreat  to  Villa  Franca  and  if  necessary  to  the  coast. 
Mr.  Knox  writes  to  say  that  he  had  been  at  the  Foreign 
Office,  and  they  assured  him  that  the  Ministers  were  under 
no  apprehensions  for  Sir  John  Moore's  army.  The 
Spaniards  seem  very  slack  in  their  own  cause." 

Unable  to  bear  the  suspense  of  waiting  for  news,  Mrs. 
Calvert  left  Hunsdon  for  her  house  in  Albemarle  Street, 
where  she  writes  : 

"  This  is  a  most  critical  anxious  time  and  I  was  much 
agitated  all  yesterday.  I  visited  my  Mother,  and  there 
met  my  sister,  who  astonishes  me  by  her  composure. 
She  was  going  to  the  Opera,  and  wanted  me  to  accompany 
her,  but  indeed  I  am  in  no  Opera  humor. 

"  January  2yd. — I  have  been  so  agitated  to-day  !  Mr. 
C.  heard  the  news  last  night,  but  kindly  concealed  it  from 
me.  He  himself  passed  a  wretched  night.  The  first  thing 
I  saw  in  the  papers  to-day  was  that  on  the  14th  the 
French  had  attacked  our  troops  that  were  not  embarked. 
The  French  were  repulsed,  but  alas,  alas  !  our  gallant 
General  Sir  John  Moore  was  killed,  and  Sir  David  Baird, 
I  fear,  mortally  wounded.    At  first  we  knew  not  but  that 

1  James,  3rd  Viscount  Grimston,  married  Harriet,  only  daughter 
of  Edward  Walter  of  Stalbridge,  Dorset,  and  left  two  unmarried 
daughters. 


i8o9]  DEATH  OF  SIR  JOHN  MOORE  119 

the  same  might  be  the  fate  of  our  beloved  boy.  Mr.  C. 
wrote  at  once  to  Lord  Paget,1  who  is  just  arrived,  to 
know  if  he  could  tell  us  anything  of  Felix  or  James.  His 
answer  was  that  he  was  certain  their  names  were  not 
amongst  the  killed  or  wounded. 

"  Soon  after  General  Calvert  kindly  wrote  us  word  that 
the  52nd  had  marched  to  Vigo  and  there  embarked, 
therefore  our  dear  boys  were  not  in  the  action.  Poor 
General  Moore  !  from  my  heart  I  lament.  A  cannon 
ball  carried  off  his  arm  and  shoulder  and  half  his  breast, 
yet  he  lived  I  believe  an  hour  and  spoke.  He  was  carried 
into  Corunna.  Sir  David's  arm  was  shot  off  by  a  cannon 
ball,  and  afterwards  amputated  to  the  socket  of  the 
shoulder,  and  it  is  feared  that  he  cannot  live. 

"  January  25th. — The  Gazette  was  published  yesterday 
— Sir  David  Baird  there  are  hopes  of.  He  is,  I  believe, 
arrived  in  the  Ville  de  Paris  along  with  the  remains  of  the 
lamented  Sir  John  Moore.  Sir  John  Moore,  I  have  since 
found,  was  buried  at  Corunna.2  General  Hope  3  took 
his  command.  He  is  a  remarkable  brave  officer,  and  his 
dispatch  does  him  honor.  Our  troops  behaved  with 
unparalleled  bravery,  and  the  French  could  not  stand 
them  ;  had  it  not  been  for  their  immense  superiority, 
we  should  have  beat  them  to  atoms.  As  it  is,  they  had 
above  double  our  number  it  is  supposed  killed. 

"  Mr.  Peter  Moore,4  a  violent  oppositionist,  gave  Mr. 
C.  a  horrible  fright  in  the  House  of  Commons.    He  told 

1  Lord  Paget,  afterwards  2nd  Earl  of  Uxbridge,  created  Marquess 
of  Anglesey  18 15,  a  most  distinguished  officer,  was  born  1768.  He 
was  the  gallant  leader  of  Sir  John  Moore's  cavalry  brigade  in  the 
Peninsula,  and  mainly  contributed  to  the  glorious  result  of  Waterloo. 
He  was  twice  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland.  He  was  a  Field  Marshal, 
K.G.,  G.C.B.,  G.C.H.,  and  died  1854. 

2  The  9th  (now  the  Norfolk)  Regiment  had  the  honour  of  carrying 
him  to  his  grave. 

3  Sir  John  Hope,  k.c.b.,  who  for  his  gallant  services  in  the  Peninsula 
War  was  raised  to  the  Peerage  (18 14)  as  Baron  Niddry.  He  married 
1798  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  the  Hon.  Charles  Hope  Vere  of  Craigie 
Hall,  and  succeeded  his  half-brother  as  4th  Earl  of  Hopetoun  18 17. 
He  died  1823. 

4  Mr.  Peter  Moore  was  a  brother  of  Sir  John  Moore,  and  Member 
for  Coventry.     He  had  three  daughters,  all  noted  for  their  beauty. 


120    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

him  there  were  no  transports  at  Vigo,  and  that  the  troops 
that  were  there  must  be  abandoned  to  their  fate,  and 
left  behind  !  Mr.  C,  in  an  agony,  called  Lord  Castle- 
reagh  aside,  who  assured  him  that  there  were  two  men- 
of-war,  and  plenty  of  transports  for  them  at  Vigo.  This 
relieved  his  mind,  in  addition  to  Admiral  de  Courcy's 
gazette,  announcing  that  he  had  left  the  Alfred  and 
Endymion,  and  transports  at  Vigo,  to  bring  away  3,500 
men  who  had  marched  there  under  Generals  Alten  and 
Crawford.  Oh,  how  I  long  to  hear  of  their  arrival ! 
Edmond  Knox  wrote  a  few  days  ago  to  a  friend  of  his 
at  Plymouth,  and  received  per  post  this  morning,  the 
following  answer,  '  This  instant  (3  p.m.)  I  received  your 
letter,  and  have  made  a  few  enquiries,  such  as  time  would 
permit,  after  your  brother  and  cousin,  as  the  army 
officers  are  now  landing  from  Corunna.  They  are  in  the 
most  miserable  state,  some  without  hats  or  shoes,  so  that 
should  I  see  your  relations,  perhaps  I  may  be  of  service 
to  them.  If  I  can,  you  may  be  sure  they  may  command 
me.  I  will  enquire  of  all  the  officers  that  land,  and  hope 
to  be  able  to  get  scent,  not  only  for  the  regard  I  have 
for  you,  but  in  hopes  of  assisting  two  brave  fellows.' 
It  is  very  comfortable  to  think  that  when  our  dear  boys, 
please  God,  land,  they  will  meet  with  a  friend.  Mr. 
Chilver  told  me  to-day  that  Lord  Paget  told  him  that  if 
he  had  an  army  of  50,000  men,  ten  of  them  cavalry,  he 
would  undertake  to  march  all  through  Spain,  and  never 
enquire  how  many  French  there  were  in  it.  What  a  pity 
that  Ministers  sent  so  few  with  Sir  John  Moore,  and 
scattered  those  about.  It  seems  to  have  been  sadly  mis- 
managed. l 

"  January  2jth. — I  had  yesterday  a  note  from  Mr. 
Ward  of  the  Admiralty  to  say  that  they  had  received  a 
letter  from  the  Captain  of  the  Alfred,  dated  Vigo,  the 
1 8th,  saying  the  troops  had  all  arrived  safe  there  without 
any  interruption  from  the  Enemy.  So  far,  so  well,  but 
alas  !  the  dangers  of  the  sea,  and  there  have  been  terrible 

1  How  history  repeats  itself  ! 


x8o9]  RETURN  OF  THE  TROOPS  121 

winds — every  blast  nearly  kills  me.  One  transport  is 
lost  with  some  of  the  7th.  A  son  of  Lord  George  Caven- 
dish, Lord  Waldegrave's  younger  brother,1  and  others. 
Oh  !  Heaven  preserve  my  boy  !  !  !  Sir  Harry  Bernard's 
son,  aide-de-camp  to  General  Moore,  is  dead  of  his  wounds 
— in  short,  nothing  but  disasters. 

"  January  30th. — One  transport  with  troops  from 
Vigo  has  arrived  at  Portsmouth  with  the  German  Legion, 
but  alas  !  alas  !  the  52nd  are  not  arrived,  and  no  one 
knows  where  they  are.  All  we  know  is  they  were  em- 
barked altogether  in  a  very  large  ship  on  the  13th  but 
had  not  sailed  on  the  21st — when  the  transport  which  is 
arrived  cut  her  cables  and  was  forced  to  sea.  They  may 
be  still  there,  and  God  grant  they  may  !  Otherwise,  they 
must  have  been  exposed  to  these  dreadful  gales.  I  have 
been  this  morning,  first  to  the  Admiralty — Mr.  Warre 
came  out  to  me — and  then  to  the  transport  office,  where 
I  went  into  Sir  Rupert  George's  who  is  at  the  head  of  it, 
to  make  enquiries.  They  all  say  they  are  not  uneasy, 
but  they  would  not  tell  me  if  they  were.  In  short,  I  am 
at  present,  the  most  miserable  of  creatures — the  wind 
roaring  hideously.    I  must  lay  my  pen  down. 

"  February  3rd. — Yesterday  relieved  me  from  the 
greatest  state  of  suffering.  I  had  been  in  a  state  almost 
bordering  on  distraction  since  I  wrote  last — in  addition, 
yesterday  morning's  paper  announced  the  loss  of  a  trans- 
port off  Plymouth  with  troops  on  board,  but  two  hours 
after  I  had  read  this,  I  had  the  inexpressible  delight  of 
receiving  a  few  lines  from  my  beloved  Felix  himself 
written  on  board  a  transport,  the  day  before,  off  Dover, 
in  which  he  said  they  were  proceeding  to  Ramsgate. 
At  the  same  time  I  received  letters  from  Ramsgate 
written  that  evening  from  Esther  Acklom,  and  another 
from  Miss  Bouverie  announcing  that  he  was  actually  in 
the  harbour,  quite  safe,  and  that  Lady  Bridget  had 
written  a  note  to  him  to  ask  him  to  dinner  the  next  day, 

1  Hon.  Edward  Waldegrave,  born  1787,  son  of  the  4th  Earl  Walde- 
grave,  was  unfortunately  drowned  on  his  return  from  Spain  January 
22nd,  1809.     He  was  a  lieutenant  in  the  7th  Dragoons. 


122    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

for  he  could  not  be  allowed  to  leave  his  transport  till 
then.  I  happened  to  have  Esther's  letter  put  into  my 
hands  before  Felix's,  so  hers  was  the  first  to  announce 
me  the  thrice  welcome  news.  This  has  quite  reinstated 
her  in  my  affections.  I  hardly  knew  all  yesterday  whether 
I  was  on  my  head  or  heels.  My  friends  joined  in  to 
congratulate  me. 

"  My  sister  had  a  letter  from  James  who  was  safe  at 
Portsmouth,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  was  to  sail  instead  of 
marching  to  Ramsgate.  The  wind  blew  a  good  deal  in 
the  night,  which  made  me  feel  very  uneasy  about  him  ; 
that  together  with  my  flurry  of  spirits,  would  not  let  me 
sleep. 

"  February  jth. — My  mind  is  all  chaos.  I  have  been 
so  happy — so  flurried.  I  dined  with  my  sister  on  Friday, 
and  Mr.  Acklom  came  in  the  evening.  He  brought  me 
a  letter  from  my  darling  boy,  and  a  most  excellent 
account  of  his  health,  etc.  as  he  had  seen  him  at  Rams- 
gate the  day  before.  On  Friday  he  marched  to  Deal,  and 
getting  permission  from  Lieutenant  Colonel  Ross  to  come 
to  Town,  stepped  instantly  into  a  postchaise  with  a 
brother  officer,  and  was  at  my  bedside  at  eight  o'clock  in 
the  morning.  I  cannot  describe  my  transports  at  seeing 
his  beloved  face — at  seeing  him  escaped  in  health  and 
spirits  from  all  his  perils  and  dangers.  He  is  grown,  and 
though  thin,  looks  in  most  perfect  health — very  much 
sunburnt,  which  does  not  misbecome  him.  He  was  a  most 
dismal  figure  as  to  clothes,  as  he  had  scarcely  a  rag  to  his 
back.  I  took  him  as  soon  as  he  was  cleaned,  dressed  and 
breakfasted,  to  see  my  Mother,  and  then  my  sister.  Poor 
fellow,  he  was  nearly  lost  on  the  Needles  in  the  Sunday 
night's  storm,  and  I  have  since  found  that  at  Portsmouth 
their  transport  was  given  up  as  lost,  but  God  Almighty 
was  merciful,  and  spared  him  to  me." 

There  is,  surely,  something  of  the  joy  of  Heaven  about 
the  exquisite  happiness  of  such  meetings  as  this  one. 

"  Yesterday   James   arrived   in   perfect   health   from 


i8o9]  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK  AND  MRS.  CLARKE  123 

Portsmouth.  I  never  saw  him  look  so  well.  He  had 
given  Felix  up.  Mr.  C,  Felix  and  I  dined  and  spent 
yesterday  evening  comfortably  together.  I  am  never 
tired  of  asking  him  questions.  Colonel  Ross  only  gave 
him  leave  to  stay  till  yesterday,  but  General  Calvert, 
with  whom  he  was  yesterday,  got  him  leave  from  the 
Duke  of  York  to  stay  till  Monday. 

"  February  gth. — James  and  Felix  amused  us  much 
with  their  accounts  of  Spain.  They  were  in  high  spirits, 
and  have  not,  thank  God,  suffered  by  all  they  have 
gone  through.  Felix  was  two  days  without  eating,  except 
a  little  bit  of  biscuit  which  he  begged  from  one  of  the 
soldiers.  Yesterday  Mr.  C,  Felix  and  Edmond  went  to 
Hunsdon.  I  went  to  the  Chapel  Royal  as  it  was  fast 
day.  The  Duke  of  Cambridge  and  Princess  of  Wales  were 
there.  The  latter  looked  like  a  bundle  of  dirty  clothes.  I 
dined  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  at  home. 

"  I  hear  poor  General  Moore's  conduct  is  much  blamed. 
I  dare  to  say  Ministers  would  like  to  lay  their  own  faults 
at  his  door.  There  is  a  great  piece  of  work  going  on  at 
present  in  the  House  of  Commons.  An  examination  of 
Mrs.  Clarke,  a  mistress  of  the  Duke  of  York's,  who  has 
been  selling  commissions  in  the  army,  with,  as  they  say, 
the  consent  of  the  Duke.  I  trust  it  will  prove  that  the 
latter  part  is  untrue,  and  that  she  and  her  accomplice 
will  be  punished. 

"  February  nth. — I  went  out  in  the  carriage  with  my 
sister.  We  visited  the  Limericks  who  are  come  to  Town, 
and  got  in  there,  and  at  Lady  Clermont's  and  Lady 
Rawlinson's.  Sir  James  is  with  her.  They  all  expressed 
the  greatest  interest  about  Felix  and  compassion  for  me 
during  my  anxiety.  Indeed,  Lady  Clermont  quite  gained 
my  heart,  she  appeared  so  sincerely  interested.  I  must 
say  I  have  met  with  a  great  deal  of  kindness  on  the  occa- 
sion. 

"  February  12th. — Mrs.  and  Miss  East  sat  with  me 
some  time.  I  feel  great  compassion  for  them,  as  they  are 
reduced  to  very  confined  circumstances  from  the  West 
India  estates  yielding  nothing,  and  have  been  forced  to 


124    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1809 

give  up  their  carriage,  which,  poor  people,  they  have  done 
with  a  very  good  grace. 

"  February  14th. — We  dined  at  four  o'clock,  and  set 
off  about  five.  Mr.  C.  went  then  to  the  House,  and  was 
not  home  till  three.  It  was  upon  the  Duke  of  York's 
business,  and  he  thinks  it  going  very  much  against  him. 

"  February  22nd. — Nothing  talked  of  but  Mrs.  Clarke 
and  the  Duke  of  York.1  At  night  I  took  Isabella  to  a 
dance  at  my  sister's.  I  felt  very  anxious  about  her 
appearance.  I  was  rather  disappointed  ;  at  the  same 
time  she  looked  very  well,  but  her  want  of  height  is  a 
great  disadvantage.  She  danced  tolerably  with  young 
Wingfield  of  the  Guards,  and  young  Hornby.  We  went 
home  at  two. 

"  February  26th. — I  dined  at  four  o'clock  with  Mr.  C. 
that  he  might  go  to  the  House — Mrs.  Clarke's  business 
still — God  knows  how  it  will  end  !  I  went  at  night  to 
Mrs.  Chaplin's,  and  then  to  Lady  Salisbury's,  where  I 
staid  till  one  in  the  morning.  Yesterday  I  dined  at  home, 
and  took  Miss  Graham  at  night  to  sit  with  my  Mother. 
Mr.  C.  did  not  come  home  from  the  House  till  half  past 
six  in  the  morning.  It  was  upon  the  Convention,  and  he 
voted  against  the  Ministers — Opposition  had  a  prodigious 
fine  minority.  A  few  more  such,  and  Ministers  cannot 
stand. 

"  L'Abbe  Vincent  says  Isabella  reads  and  writes  French 
incomparably. 

"  February  27th. — My  sister  and  I  went  to  an  Assembly 
at  Lady  Camden's  ;  the  Duke  of  York,  with  a  letter 
to  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons,  declaring  to  the 
House  upon  the  honor  of  a  Prince  that  he  is  innocent  of 

1  This  was  one  of  the  great  scandals  of  that  period,  and  led  to 
the  Duke  of  York's  resigning  his  office  as  Commander-in-Chief.  Mrs. 
Clarke,  his  mistress,  was  accused  of  obtaining  money  unfairly  by  using 
her  influence  with  H.R.H.  She  was  a  person  of  humble  origin,  but 
considerable  fascination.  She  had  a  large  house  in  Gloucester  Place, 
and  her  extravagance  was  unbounded.  It  is  said  that  her  wine  glasses 
cost  four  guineas  a-piece,  that  she  kept  ten  horses  and  twenty  servants, 
and  ate  off  the  plate  that  had  belonged  to  the  Due  de  Berri.  She 
died  in  1852  at  a  very  advanced  age. 


MRS.    MARY    ANNE    CLARKE 


i8o9]  BURNING  OF  DRURY  LANE  THEATRE    125 

the  charges  against  him,  and  wishing  for  a  fair  trial,  and 
the  witnesses  to  be  examined  on  oath,  which  they  have 
not  yet  been.  This  day  week  the  discussion  on  that 
subject  is  to  take  place. 

"  I  dined  at  my  sister's,  and  went  at  night  with  Thomas 
and  Edmond  to  an  Assembly  at  Lady  Carhampton's.1 
About  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  we  went  home,  we 
were  told  that  there  was  a  dreadful  fire  in  Piccadilly.  I 
felt  rather  fussed  lest  it  should  be  near  me,  but  I  soon 
found  it  was  Drury  Lane  Theatre.  I  went  up  upon  the 
top  of  the  House  when  I  got  home  to  see  it,  and  a  most 
awful  and  beautiful  sight  it  was.  The  whole  sky  was  on 
fire,  and  I  could  see  the  building  quite  plain,  the  arches 
of  the  windows  beautifully  illuminated.  Mr.  C.  did  not 
get  home  from  the  House  till  near  four,  and  was  obliged 
to  get  up  in  three  hours  to  go  to  Hertford  to  a  meeting 
of  Deputy  Lieutenants. 

"  March  $th. — In  the  evening  my  sister  and  I  went  to 
an  Assembly  at  Lady  Salisbury's,  where  we  staid  till  one 
in  the  morning.  There  I  heard  a  great  deal  of  conversa- 
tion about  the  burning  of  Drury  Lane.  It  seems  to  be 
a  general  idea  that  it  was  done  on  purpose.  It  is  reported 
that  the  Prince  of  Wales  had  received  some  time  ago  an 
anonymous  letter  telling  him  that  all  the  public  buildings 
and  great  places  should  be  burnt  one  after  the  other. 
They  say  the  Theatre  was  set  on  fire  on  purpose.  There 
is  scarcely  a  night,  but  there  is  not  a  fire  somewhere  or 
another,  and  last  night  there  came  up  an  account  from 
Oxford  that  Christ  Church  is  burnt  down,  but  no  lives 
lost.  Lord  Limerick,  who  has  been  just  here,  tells  me 
that  Mr.  Perceval  told  him  yesterday  that  he  received 
many  threatening  letters.  It  is  said  that  a  train  of  gun- 
powder was  found  under  the  Opera  House.  I  know  I 
feel  so  nervous  about  it,  that  I  requested  my  Felix  not 
to  go  to  the  Opera,  as  I  expect  to  hear  every  night  of  its 
being  burnt. 

"  On  Wednesday  Felix  and  I  dined  tete-a-tete,  and  went 
at  night  with  Isabella  to  a  dance  at  my  sister's,  where  we 

1  Lord  Carhampton  lived  at  what  is  now  Crewe  House. 


126   AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

staid  till  past  two.  Felix  did  not  dance.  Isabella  danced 
with  Mr.  Hornby,  Mr.  Walker,  and  Mr.  Campbell.  It 
was  a  great  trouble  to  both  her  and  m  ,  her  being  obliged 
to  dance  with  little  Walker.  He  is  such  a  comical, 
smirking  little  thing,  and  so  forward  that  everyone  was 
laughing  at  him.  I  feel  a  good  deal  disappointed  and 
mortified  about  Isabella.  I  expected  her  to  be  prettier 
and  more  admired.  If  she  did  but  take  to  growing,  all 
would  yet  be  well. 

"  Lady  Somers  J  and  her  daughter  have  been  here,  and 
poor  dear  Edmond  Knox  to  take  leave  of  me  as  he  goes 
tonight  to  Portsmouth  to  embark  for  the  West  Indies. 
God  Almighty  preserve  him,  and  send  him  back  safe 
from  that  horrible  country  !  !  ! 

"  March  wth. — Mr.  C.  came  to  Town  on  Monday  as  I 
expected,  and  was  in  the  House  of  Commons  till  near 
seven.  The  House  sits  every  day  now  on  the  Duke  of 
York's  business.  God  knows  how  it  will  end  !  Lady 
Charlotte  Wellesley,  the  wife  of  Mr.  Henry  Wellesley, 
and  mother  of  four  children,  has  run  away  with  Lord 
Paget,  also  a  married  man  with  a  lovely  family.  The 
Town  rings  with  it.    Indeed,  it  is  too  shocking  to  think  of. 2 

"  The  Duke  of  York's  business  not  yet  over.  It  creates 
great  ferment  in  the  public  mind.  We  have  made  peace 
with  the  Porte  of  Austria,  and  I  believe  are  certainly 
going  to  war  with  France. 

"  Isabella  and  I  went  to-day  to  see  the  British  Gallery 
of  Pictures  in  Pall  Mall.  There  is  a  picture  there  of 
Thomson's  Lavinia,  the  image  of  Isabella,  only  hand- 
somer. 

"March  igth. — Mr.  C.  went  down  to  the  House  at  nine — 
still  the  Duke  of  York's  business.  There  have  been  since 
that,  several  late  days,  and  divisions  upon  it.    Court  and 


1  Anne,  daughter  of  Reginald  Pole-Carew,  married  in  1772,  as  his 
second  wife,  Charles  Cocks,  1st  Lord  Somers.  Her  only  daughter, 
Anna  Maria,  married  1797  the  Rev.  Philip  Yorke,  Prebendary  of  Ely. 

2  Lord  Paget' s  first  marriage  having  been  dissolved  by  the  laws  of 
Scotland,  he  married  in  18 10  Lady  Charlotte  Cadogan  (Wellesley), 
who  died  1853. 


i8o9]  SYDNEY  SMITH  127 

Ministerial  interest  procured  him  majorities  against  the 
Sense  of  the  country,  but  he  has  resigned  as  Lord  Limerick 
informed  me  a  little  while  ago.  He  certainly  (I  am 
afraid)  knew  of  Mrs.  Clarke  receiving  money,  but  at  the 
same  time  he  has  been  a  most  excellent  Commander  in 
Chief — more  owing  to  the  merits  of  those  about  him, 
than  to  any  of  his  own,  but  he  must  be  allowed  merit  for 
choosing  them  well.  I  am  truly  sorry  he  is  turned  out, 
and  I  hope  in  God  it  may  not  affect  General  Calvert. 

"  I  went  at  night  to  sit  with  my  Mother,  and  afterwards 
Felix  and  I  went  to  an  Assembly  at  Mrs.  Thompson's. 
He  looked  very  handsome.  Yesterday  I  dined  at  Sir 
John  Sebright's.  Mr.  C.  dined  at  Lady  Cassilis's — Felix 
at  Colonel  Beaumont's.  I  went  at  night  to  Lady  Cas- 
silis's. There  I  found  Sir  David  Baird,1  who  had  dined 
there.  Poor  man,  I  could  not  bear  to  see  him  without  his 
arm.  He  is  a  charming  man — so  manly  and  placid  in  his 
manners,  and  very  pleasant.  His  wound  is  healed,  but 
his  lungs  appear  affected,  and  I  fear  much  he  will  never 
quite  recover  the  dreadful  blow  he  had.  I  hear  it  took 
three  hours — the  operation  of  extracting  out  of  the  pan 
of  the  shoulder  the  shattered  remains  of  his  limb. 

"  Isabella  and  I  have  been  this  morning  to  Berkeley 
Chapel,  where  we  heard  Sidney  Smith  preach.  He  is 
reckoned  a  famous  preacher.  He  is  going  to  quit  London, 
having  got  a  living  somewhere  in  the  country. 2  This  was 
his  farewell  sermon.  Upon  the  whole  I  liked  him,  he 
commanded  my  attention,  but  I  was  disappointed  in  him 
— I  had  heard  so  much  of  him. 

"  March  23rd. — On  Tuesday  and  yesterday,  Isabella 
went  to  Grosvenor  Street,  to  be  prepared  with  Fanny 
Knox  for  Confirmation.  Mr.  Butler,  a  clergyman,  came 
for  that  purpose. 

1  Sir  David  Baird,  k.c.b.,  was  born  at  Newbyth  December  6th, 
1757,  entered  the  British  Army  at  fifteen  years  of  age,  and  achieved 
high  military  honours,  distinguishing  himself  repeatedly  in  India, 
at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  at  the  bombardment  of  Corunna, 
where  he  lost  an  arm.  He  was  created  a  Baronet  1809,  and  died  1829. 
He  has  been  called  a  good,  but  not  a  great,  commander. 

2  Foston,  in  Yorkshire. 


CHAPTER   IX 

Influenza — Sir  David  Dundas — Vapour  baths — Revolution  in 
Sweden — Bishop  Porteous'  last  confirmation — Lady  Sarah 
Napier  and  her  son — Mrs.  Calvert  on  her  travels — Lord 
Cochrane  and  the  Varsovie — Isabella's  first  ball — The  Euro- 
pean Museum — Taking  of  Oporto — Lady  Wellesley's  anxiety 
— A  false  report — A  famous  victory — Haileybury  School — 
The  beautiful  Lady  Haggerston. 

1809. 

THAT  spring,   Mrs.  Calvert  informs  us,  there 
was  a  visitation  of  influenza,  and  the  Duchess 
of  Bolton  was  one  of  its  first  victims.    It  was 
of  a   serious   kind,   though   not   perhaps   so 
deadly  as  the  Russian  influenza  of  1891. 

A  new  Commander-in-Chief  was  appointed. 

"  Sir  David  Dundas  1  who  is  seventy-six,  but  I  believe 
an  able  man.  Many  think  that  it  is  only  temporary  and 
that  they  mean  to  bring  back  the  Duke  of  York.  We 
have  taken  Martinique,  and  they  say  the  news  from 
Spain  is  favourable.  But  I  fear  poor  Saragossa  has  at 
last  fallen,2  and  Palafox  is  dead.3 

1  Sir  David  Dundas,  born  in  1735,  was  a  collateral  descendant 
of  Sir  James  Dundas,  ist  Lord  Arniston.  He  was  an  able  and 
distinguished  soldier,  constantly  on  service  during  the  French  War. 
In  1809  he  became  Commander-in-Chief,  and  held  that  appointment 
two  years.  He  died  in  1820.  His  portrait  by  Raeburn  hangs  on  the 
walls  at  Arniston — not  the  least  valuable  of  the  treasures  that  most 
interesting  house  contains. 

2  The  French  took  Saragossa  February  21st,  1809. 

3  Don  Jose  de  Palafox  (1 780-1 847),  the  intrepid  defender  of  Sara- 
gossa, lived  for  many  years  afterwards. 

128 


i8o9]  LADY  SARAH  NAPIER  129 

"  My  sister  took  me  to  Mr.  Basil  Cochrane's *  in 
Port  man  Square.  He  is  a  man  of  large  fortune — uncle  to 
Lord  Cochrane.  He  is  civil  and  good  humoured,  but 
entirely  engrossed  with  inventing  Baths.  He  took  me 
over  his.  They  are  Vapor  Baths,  and  he  sadly  wanted  me 
to  go  into  one,  saying  it  would  infallibly  cure  my  cold. 

"  There  is  a  revolution  in  Sweden.  The  King  2  is 
deposed  and  the  Duke  of  Sudermania,3  his  uncle,  is 
appointed  Regent.  Whether  this  has  been  effected  by 
French  influence  or  not,  time  will  shew." 

Isabella  Calvert  and  her  cousin  Fanny  Knox  were  about 
this  time  confirmed  at  St.  James's  Church  by  the  Bishop 
of  London. 

"  Poor  man,  I  believe  it  is  the  last  time  he  will  do  it, 
for  he  looks  dying.    It  was  very  affecting."  4 

In  the  meantime  Felix  and  his  cousin  James  had  been 
recruiting  near  Battle,  but  not  very  successfully,  for  they 
only  managed  to  get  five  men  between  them. 

The  next  entry  in  Mrs.  Calvert's  Journal  carries  us  back 
quite  half  a  century,  to  the  days  when  "  lovely  black-haired 
Sarah  Lennox,  about  whose  beauty  Walpole  has  written 
in  raptures,  used  to  lie  in  wait  for  the  young  Prince,  and 
make  hay  at  him  on  the  lawn  of  Holland  House.  He 
sighed  and  he  longed,  but  he  rode  away  from  her."  5 

"  On  Friday  I  went  to  an  Assembly  at  the  Duchess  of 
Leinster's,  and  chaperoned  Miss  Calthorpe,  Lady  Cal- 
thorpe's  daughter.    Lady  Sarah  Napier, 6  who  I  have  not 

1  The  Hon.  Basil  Cochrane  died  in  1816. 

2  Gustavus  IV. 

8  He  ascended  the  throne  under  the  title  of  Charles  XIII,  but  was 
deposed  in  his  turn  by  Bernadotte. 

4  Bishop  Porteous  died  on  May  14th,  1809. 

5  Thackeray's  Four  Georges. 

6  Lady  Sarah  Lennox,  fourth  daughter  of  the  2nd  Duke  of  Rich- 
mond, married  in  1762  Sir  Thomas  Bunbury,  and  afterwards  in  1781 
the  Hon.  George  Napier,  who  died  1804. 


130    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

seen  for  years,  was  there.  She  is  now  an  old  woman,  but 
really  very  pretty,  and  looks  most  interesting.  She  is 
stone  blind,  which  misfortune  happened  to  her  since  we 
met,  and  I  really  felt  so  affected  when  her  sister  Lady 
Louisa  Conolly1  told  her  who  I  was,  that  for  a  minute, 
I  could  only  return  the  pressure  of  her  hand,  and  falter 
out  my  congratulations  on  the  safety  of  her  son,  Major 
Napier,  who  was  also  there,  and  who  I  had  known  as  a 
boy.  He  was  supposed  to  be  killed  at  the  Battle  of 
Corunna,  and  his  family  had  mourned  for  him.  About 
six  weeks  ago  it  was  reported  that  he  was  a  prisoner  and 
not  dead.  Lady  Bathurst,  who  is  niece  to  Lady  Sarah, 
persuaded  Lord  Mulgrave  to  send  a  flag  of  truce  to  Soult 
to  enquire  about  him,  the  result  of  which  was  their 
allowing  him  to  come  over  here  himself.  It  may  readily 
be  imagined,  the  transports  of  his  poor  mother.  He  is 
an  excellent  young  man,  and  the  best  son  that  ever  was, 
but  very  plain.  Never  was  anything  like  the  kindness  he 
met  with  from  the  French  Generals.  It  was  a  drummer 
saved  his  life  when  the  French  soldiers  were  going  to  kill 
him.  Soult  handsomely  rewarded  the  drummer.  Soult 
is  going  to  erect  a  monument  to  Sir  John  Moore's  memory. 
I  think  it  is  a  fine  reproach  to  our  Ministry  who  are 
endeavouring  to  blacken  his  memory,  instead  of  cele- 
brating it.  I  hear  his  noble-minded  mother  has  refused 
a  pension  on  that  account.  People  seem  a  good  deal 
frightened  about  the  times.  This  business  of  the  Duke 
of  York's  has  created  such  a  ferment.  I  hear  Lords 
Grenville,  Buckingham,  Grey,  and  the  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire, the  heads  of  the  Opposition,  have  grown  frightened, 
and  mean  to  retire  from  Opposition,  and  it  is  said  Lord 
Grey  has  quarrelled  with  his  brother  in  law  in  consequence, 
who  is  a  terrible  violent  man.  I  hear  they  are  going  to 
bring  charges  in  the  House  against  Lords  Sidmouth, 
Hardwicke,  and  Mr.  Yorke.2  God  knows  how  it  will  all 
end  !  !  !  " 

1  Lady   Louisa   Lennox   married    1758    the    Right    Hon.    Thomas 
Conolly,  of  Castletown. 

2  The  Right  Hon.   Charles  Philip  Yorke  was  born  in   1764,   and 


i8o9]       MRS.  CALVERT  ON  HER  TRAVELS         131 

Mrs.  Calvert  is  never  more  amusing  than  when  she  is 
severe  upon  her  own  sex. 

"  April,  1809. — Miss  Bouverie  is  going  to  be  married 
to  Mr.  Forbes.  She  is  terribly  in  love.  He  has  very  little, 
I  believe,  but  a  good  character.  They  are  to  go  to  India, 
where  he  has  some  appointment.  Lady  Cassilis  told  me 
yesterday  that  she  never  saw  anything  like  Miss  Bou- 
verie's  transports  at  her  approaching  marriage.  What- 
ever she  may  feel,  I  think  it  very  indelicate  for  a  woman 
to  show  such  joy." 

Our  heroine  was  undoubtedly  a  nervous,  highly-strung 
person,  and  the  terrors  that  she  suffered — sometimes  quite 
unnecessarily — were  to  her  very  real.  It  so  happened  that 
early  in  April  Mrs.  Knox's  eldest  son  fell  ill  at  Dungannon 
of  a  fever,  and  Mrs.  Calvert  on  the  impulse  of  the  moment 
started  for  Ireland  with  her  sister.  Although  Mr.  Calvert 
was  the  most  indulgent  of  husbands,  this  seems  to  have 
been  a  step  which,  in  a  calmer  frame  of  mind,  she  would 
not  have  dared  to  undertake  without  his  sanction.  The 
ladies  travelled  sixty  miles  without  stopping  ;  but  by  the 
time  they  reached  Grantham  Mrs.  Calvert  felt  that  she 
had  not  the  courage  to  proceed  further,  and  very  un- 
willingly allowed  her  sister  to  go  on  without  her.  The 
agony  of  mind  she  suffered  would  have  expiated  a  much 
worse  crime. 

"  Here  I  am,  quite  alone — without  even  a  servant ! 
I  have  written  for  Timewell  and  James  Knox  to  come  for 
me  in  the  mail,  but  they  cannot  be  here  till  the  day  after 
to-morrow.  What  a  dismal  time  I  must  spend — afraid 
of  everything  and  everybody.     I  have  sent  to  a  library 

was  at  one  time  of  the  Tellers  of  the  Exchequer,  and  some  time  First 
Lord  of  the  Admiralty.  He  was  a  friend  of  Mr.  Calvert's,  and  his 
tenant  at  Boningtons,  near  Hunsdon.  He  died  1834;  had  he  lived 
eight  months  longer  he  would  have  been  4th  Earl  of  Hardwicke. 


132    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

to  see  if  I  can  get  any  books,  though  God  knows  I  shall 
attend  very  little  to  what  I  read.  There  is  a  fair  in  the 
street.  I  have  put  down  the  blinds  in  order  to  exclude  it 
and  also  to  prevent  myself  being  seen,  for  I  should  be 
quite  shocked  if  any  common  acquaintance  were  to  go 
by  and  see  me  here  unattended.  It  would  have  such  an 
extraordinary  appearance. 

"  I  trust  Mr.  C.  will  not  be  angry,  but  I  do  dread  seeing 
him.  If  he  is  not  angry,  I  shall  not  tell  him  I  was  afraid 
he  would  be,  lest  I  should  put  it  into  his  head. 

"  The  noises  of  the  Inn  quite  distract  me.  Yesterday 
was  Quarter  Sessions,  and  I  had  the  Justices  dinning  and 
roaring  in  the  next  room  to  me.  And  to-day  the  Mayor 
and  Corporation  are  to  dine  here." 

This  last  prospect  proved  too  much  for  the  unhappy 
lady's  nerves,  and  she  took  refuge  in  her  bedroom,  where 
she  bolted  herself  in.  Too  terrified  even  to  go  to  bed 
that  night,  she  lay  down  without  undressing. 

"  The  good  landlady  is  very  attentive  to  me,  and 
visits  me  whenever  she  has  a  moment  to  spare.  Two  of  her 
maids  sleep  in  the  next  room  to  protect  me,  and  yet  I 
can't  be  easy.  What  am  I  afraid  of  ?  I  believe  of  my 
own  shadow." 

One  feels  quite  relieved  to  hear  of  the  arrival  of  James 
Knox  and  the  faithful  Time  well,  who  brought  better 
accounts  of  the  invalid,  and  a  few  kind  lines  from  Mr.  C. 
His  wife  reading  between  the  lines  felt  sure,  however, 
that  he  was  "  not  pleased  with  her."  He  received  her 
kindly  when  she  reached  Albemarle  Street,  but  did  not 
conceal  the  fact  that  he  had  been  much  displeased. 

"  There  is  bad  news  from  Spain,  and  also  great  un- 
easiness about  our  Army  in  Portugal.  Vigo  has,  however, 
surrendered  to  the  British  ships  and  Spaniards. 

"  April  2 1st. — A  few  minutes  ago  I  heard  the  Park 


i8o9]     LORD  COCHRANE  &  THE  VARSOVIE      133 

guns  firing,  and  I  sent  to  enquire  the  reason.  They  have 
just  brought  me  word  that  it  was  because  Lord  Cochrane 
had  entirely  destroyed  the  French  fleet." 

Later  news  affirms  that. 

"  April  25th. — Lord  Cochrane  complains  sadly  at  not 
having  been  seconded  properly  in  his  attack  on  the 
French. 

"  The  French  captain,  whom  he  had  taken  prisoner, 
expressed  a  great  wish  to  go  on  board  his  ship  x  in  order 
to  save  his  papers  and  charts.  Lord  Cochrane  represented 
to  him  the  great  danger  of  doing  this,  as  the  ship  might 
blow  up  at  any  moment.  He  seemed  so  anxious  about 
the  matter,  however,  that  Lord  Cochrane,  willing  to 
gratify  him,  ordered  his  boat  to  be  lowered,  and  got  into 
it  with  him.  He  called  out  '  Well  my  lads,  who  will 
volunteer  to  go  with  us  ?  ',  and  four  or  five  sailors  did  so. 

"  When  they  got  near  the  ship  owing  to  the  heat,  which 
was  very  great,  one  of  the  guns  went  off,  killing  the  French 
captain  on  the  spot.  At  the  same  time,  a  little  dog,  terri- 
fied at  the  noise,  jumped  through  one  of  the  port  holes  into 
the  sea.  '  Damn  it,  Captain/  exclaimed  the  sailors, 
1  though  it  is  a  French  dog  we  will  try  and  save  its  life.' 
And  in  spite  of  the  imminent  danger  they  rowed  up  to 
the  little  dog  and  saved  him.  He  proved  to  be  a  beautiful 
little  creature,  and  Lord  Cochrane  has  brought  him  to 
London.  I  wish  he  would  give  him  to  my  sister,  she 
would  like  it  so  much. 

"  April  26th. — There  was  an  attack  in  the  House  of 
Commons  on  Lord  Castlereagh  for  having  bartered  a 
writer  ship  for  a  seat  in  Parliament.  The  House  sat  till 
four  this  morning. 

*■  April  28th. — I  went  in  the  evening  to  my  Mother's. 
The  Dowager  Lady  Lucan  2  and  Lady  Harberton  3  were 

1  The  Varsovie. 

2  Margaret,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  James  Smith,  m.p.,  of 
Cannons  Leigh,  Devon,  married  1760  Sir  Charles  Bingham,  created  in 
1795  Earl  of  Lucan.     He  died  in  1799,  and  was  succeeded  by  his  son. 

3  John,  4th  Viscount  Harberton,  in  Holy  Orders,  married  October 
31st,  1785,  Esther,  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  James  Spencer. 


134    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

there.  Lady  Lucan  was  uncommonly  agreeable.  She  told 
me  that  Lord  Spencer  received  from  Paris  a  month  ago  the 
Memoirs  of  the  great  Duke  of  Marlborough,  most  magnifi- 
cently bound,  published  in  Paris,  with  a  note  saying  that 
it  was  sent  to  him  from  the  Author  by  order  of  the 
Emperor  Napoleon. 

"  She  says  the  Duke  of  Marlborough  is  Bonaparte's 
great  admiration,  and  that  he  says  there  never  has  since 
the  time  of  Caesar  been  a  real  good  General,  but  him. 

"At  Lady  Stronge's  Isabella  and  I  met  Miss  Cochrane, 
who  is  first  cousin  to  Lord  Cochrane  and  had  got  in  her 
arms  the  little  dog  that  he  saved.  They  have  named  it 
Varsovie  after  the  ship  it  jumped  out  of.  It  is  a  nice 
little  pug. 

"  After  that  I  called  on  Esther  Acklom,  and  took  her 
to  Lady  Somers'  assembly.  There  was  a  very  great 
crowd,  and  I  really  was  tired  of  my  young  lady.  She  is 
such  a  flirt,  there  is  no  getting  by  any  men,  and  she 
shakes  hands  and  is  so  intimate  with  all  the  young  men 
that  I  think  it  a  most  terrible  style." 

Poor  Mrs.  Calvert  !  What  would  she  think  of  present 
fashions?  Isabella's  debut  was  naturally  a  matter  of  great 
interest  to  her  mother.  At  sixteen  she  went  to  her  first 
party,  but,  being  then  raw  and  unformed  in  spite  of  her 
good  looks,  the  result  was  not  altogether  satisfactory. 

"  Isabella  vexes  me  amazingly,  she  will  not  take  any 
pains  to  hold  up  her  head,  and  it  really  mortifies  me 
exceedingly  to  see  what  a  dowdy  thing  she  looks.  My 
expectations  were,  I  believe,  too  high  wrought  about  her, 
and  my  disappointment  is  proportionately  great. 

"  May  1st. — Isabella  promises  me  faithfully  that  she 
will  take  pains  with  her  carriage,  and  I  hope  she  will.  It 
will  just  make  all  the  difference  of  her  being  a  fine  looking 
girl,  or  one  quite  the  reverse. 

"  May  8th. — Isabella  and  I  have  been  this  morning  to 
see  Sir  John  Sebright's  daughters  take  their  lessons  in 


i8o9]  THE  EUROPEAN  MUSEUM  135 

dancing.  They  dance,  I  believe,  remarkably  well,  but 
to  see  great  tall  ugly  girls  kicking  and  dancing  about  like 
Opera  Dancers  is,  I  think,  disgusting." 

Perhaps  a  classical  dance,  d  la  Maud  Allan,  would  have 
been  more  appreciated  ! 

"  The  Austrians  have  had  a  most  dreadful  beating.1 

"  Oh  that  horrible  Bonaparte  !  I  really  believe  he  is 
invincible. 

"  May  20th. — I  took  Isabella,  Lavinia  and  William 
yesterday  to  the  European  Museum. 

"  There  is  a  beautiful  picture  of  a  Duchess  of  Mans- 
field [Mansfeld],2  who  lived  in  the  time  of  Elizabeth, 
and  was  reckoned  the  image  of  Mary  Queen  of  Scots.  I 
never  saw  so  lovely  a  countenance.  We  saw  the  cap 
Charles  I  was  beheaded  in  with  several  stains  of  blood 
on  it,  also  two  chairs  belonging  to  Oliver  Cromwell,  and 
many  other  curiosities. 

"  I  hear  that  Lord  Hamilton,  Lord  Abercorn's  son  is 
very  ill  in  the  North  of  Ireland  with  a  fever.  Dr.  Pember- 
ton  set  off  yesterday  for  Baronscourt.  It  is  odd  that  he 
and  Thomas  should  be  ill  at  the  same  time.  They  are 
rival  candidates  for  the  next  election  at  Tyrone. 

"  May  2yd. — Mrs.  Campbell  3  has  been  sitting  with 
me,  very  miserable,  poor  soul,  about  her  husband  who  is 
with  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley  in  Spain.  I  hear  there  is  a 
report  that  Sir  Arthur  has  taken  Oporto,  in  which  case 
there  has  probably  been  an  engagement,  but  this  of 
course  I  did  not  name  to  Mrs.  Campbell." 

The  news  was  confirmed  the  next  day. 

"  A  dreadful  disorder  has  broken  out  in  the  North  of 
Ireland.  They  die  as  in  the  plague,  in  twenty  four  hours. 
It  is  really  frightful,  but  people  here  seem  to  think  of 

1  The  French  took  Vienna  in  May,  1809. 

2  Mansfeld  was  only  a  Comte. 

8  Mrs.  Campbell  was  the  widow  of  Colonel  Thomas  Knox,  and 
married  secondly  Colonel  (afterwards  Sir)  Henry  Campbell,  k.c.b. 


136    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

nothing  but  amusement.  If  Bonaparte  was  at  their  very 
doors,  and  plague,  pestilence,  and  famine  raging,  I  believe 
they  would  still  go  on  in  a  round  of  dissipation. 

"  May  26th. — Yesterday  I  was  awoke  at  half  past  eight 
by  the  Tower  and  Park  guns  being  fired.  It  turned  out 
to  be  for  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley's  having  beat  Soult  and 
taken  possession  of  Oporto. 

"  General  Paget  has  lost  an  arm.  He  wrote  to  his 
mother,  Lady  Uxbridge. 

"  '  Dear  Mother — You  will  hear  that  I  have  lost  a  fin, 
but  I  am  very  well.'  The  French  cavalry  could  not  stand 
five  minutes  before  ours  ;  we  took  them  so  by  surprise 
that  the  English  actually  eat  the  dinner  which  was  pre- 
pared for  Soult. 

"  Last  Wednesday  the  Ministers  were  beat  by  five  on 
Colonel  Shipley's  motion  concerning  Lord  Burghersh, 
who  has  been  promoted  contrary  to  the  regulations. 
Though  they  were  beat  again  by  four  last  night,  I  dare 
to  say  they  will  not  resign.  Lord  Cranley's  bon  mot, 
that  they  are  like  horses  in  a  stable  on  fire,  who  won't 
stir  out  of  their  places,  is  an  excellent  simile. 

"  May  29th. — I  had  a  great  many  visitors  after  Church. 
Lady  Wellesley  among  the  rest.  She  told  me  they  were 
in  momentary  expectation  of  very  interesting  news  from 
Portugal.  Poor  little  woman  !  She  is  very  much  at- 
tached to  Sir  Arthur,  and  must  be  very  anxious,  but  she 
carries  it  off  very  well.  She  brought  two  nice  little  boys 
with  her.  There  are  no  hopes  of  Lord  Hamilton,  Lord 
Abercorn's  only  son. 

"  May  30th. — It  was  reported  yesterday  (for  what 
reason  I  do  not  know)  that  Mr.  Tierney  *  had  shot  Sir 
Francis  Burdett  in  a  duel.    I  hear  there  was  a  crowd  all 

1  George  Tierney  (1761-1830)  was  elected  Member  for  Southwark 
in  1796,  and  at  once  plunged  into  active  opposition  to  Pitt,  who 
accused  him  (1798)  of  want  of  patriotism,  and  for  many  years  they 
fought  a  bloodless  duel.  Had  Tierney  been  the  contemporary  of  men 
less  brilliant  than  Pitt,  Burke,  Fox,  and  Sheridan,  his  reputation  as  a 
debater  would  have  stood  very  high,  for  his  logic  was  strong,  his  wit 
ready,  and  his  sagacity  great.  Like  Whitbread,  he  sprang  from  the 
mercantile  class. 


i8o9]  THE  KING'S  BIRTHDAY  137 

the  morning  before  Sir  Francis'  house  to  enquire  after 
him. 

"  June  2nd. — An  express  had  come  to  Dungannon  to 
beg  that  Dr.  Saunders  might  come  to  see  Lord  Hamilton 
as  he  was  very  bad,  thought  himself  going,  and  had  re- 
ceived the  Sacrament. 

"  June  yth. — Last  Monday  was  the  King's  birthday. 
It  was  the  most  crowded  that  has  been  seen  for  years. 
My  room  and  balcony  were  full  all  the  morning,  and  in 
the  evening  I  drove  about  the  town  to  shew  the  children 
the  illuminations.  I  afterwards  went  to  an  assembly 
at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's.  The  Prince,  Dukes  of  Clarence, 
Cambridge  and  Kent  were  there.  The  Prince  received 
me  most  cordially,  shaking  hands  in  his  usual  gracious 
way.  I  had  a  great  deal  of  conversation  with  the  Duke 
of  Clarence.  He  spoke  of  Mr.  C.  in  the  highest  terms  of 
commendation,  and  said  he  was  "  a  fine,  noble,  gallant 
fellow.'    Lord  Hamilton  is  recovering. 

"  June  25th. — I  have  had  a  great  shock — the  52nd  are 
under  orders  for  foreign  service.  The  place  of  destination 
is  unknown.  Dr.  Knighton  is  going  to  Spain  for  two 
months  with  Lord  Wellesley,  as  physician  to  the  Em- 
bassy. He  is  to  receive  £5000  from  him  and  a  guinea 
a  day  for  life  from  the  Government. 

"  Lord  Stuart1  is  staying  in  Grosvenor  Street.  He  is  a 
very  ugly,  but  I  believe,  a  very  good  young  man.  He 
married  without  his  father's  consent  three  years  ago, 
and  has  never  been  forgiven  by  him.  He  is  only  allowed 
£500  a  year. 

"  July  gth. — A  dreadful  fire  broke  out  last  night  in 
Conduit  Street  at  a  Miss  Sturke's — a  milliner.  Her  house 
and  Mr.  Frederick  North's  were  burnt.  The  best  part  of 
his  valuable  library  was  saved,  but  all  his  beautiful  furni- 
ture and  curiosities  from  Ceylon  were  destroyed. 

"  Lady  Catherine  Stewart  has  just  heard  from  her 
husband  who  is  with  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley.    She  says  the 

1  Robert,  Lord  Stuart,  married  in  April,  1806,  Jemima,  the  only- 
daughter  of  Colonel  Robinson,  r.a.  He  succeeded  his  father  August 
26th,  1809,  as  2nd  Earl  of  Castle  Stewart. 


138    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

Portuguese  Generals  are  much  surprised  at  seeing  him 
and  Sir  Arthur  riding  about  without  a  servant,  for  they 
never  stir  themselves  without  twenty  or  thirty.  He  gives 
a  curious  account  of  Chesta  (?)  who  heads  the  Spanish 
forces.  To  begin  with  he  is  eighty-three.  He  is  very 
methodical,  and  most  superstitious,  and  sometimes  so 
desponding  that  he  won't  speak  for  days.  He  never  will 
mount  his  charger  except  on  the  field  of  battle  and  always 
crosses  himself  before  he  mounts. 

"  July  18th.  Hunsdon. — Felix  was  to  embark  at  Deal 
yesterday  and  James  (Knox)  was  going  also.  I  met  Mr. 
Luscombe  who  took  us  all  over  Hertford  Castle  where  the 
Haileybury  School  is  to  remove  on  the  1st  of  August. 

"  I  never  have  Felix  out  of  my  head.  His  picture  has 
taken  its  usual  station  when  he  is  on  active  service — 
under  my  pillow. 

"  July  25th. — At  half  past  one  Mr.  C.  and  I  set  out  for 
Hatfield  House.  We  went  in  a  little  German  barouche 
which  we  have  just  got — the  lightest  thing  imaginable. 
Mr.  C.  and  I  inside,  and  on  the  box  (which  is  part  of  the 
carriage)  Timewell  and  my  footman. 

"  We  dressed  at  Hatfield  and  went  to  dinner  about 
half  past  four.  The  judges  and  about  eighty  people  dined 
there.  Miss  Hale  is  to  be  married  on  Thursday  to  her 
cousin  Cholmeley  Dering,1  which  was  the  reason  they  did 
not  come. 

"The  Austrians  have  concluded  an  armistice  with 
Bonaparte  for  a  month,  and  seem  to  be  prostrate  at  his 
feet. 

"  August  i$th.  Albemarle  Street. — We  came  to  Town 
yesterday  in  the  Barouche.  On  arriving  we  found  that 
the  Tower  guns  had  fired  on  account  of  Sir  Arthur 
Wellesley  having  beat  the  French,  headed  by  Joseph 
Bonaparte.  They  had  45,000 — we  under  20,000.  We 
have   taken   twenty   pieces   of   cannon,    and   remained 


1  Cholmeley  Dering,  second  son  of  Sir  Edward  Dering,  born  1785, 
married  1809  Charlotte,  eldest  daughter  of  William  Hale,  Esq.,  of 
King's  Walden,  Herts. 


i8o9]  A  FAMOUS  VICTORY  139 

masters  of  the  field  of  battle,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  we 
have  lost  a  dreadful  number  of  men — 5,367  killed, 
wounded  and  missing — an  infinite  number  of  officers.  The 
French  are  supposed  to  have  lost  10,000,  but  a  few  such 
victories  would  soon  annihilate  our  army.  Mr.  C.  went 
to  Brooke's  to  get  particulars,  and  to  procure,  if  he  could, 
an  account  of  the  killed  and  wounded  (the  Gazette  was 
not  published  till  this  morning).  He  got  what  he  thought 
an  accurate  list,  and  finding  General  Campbell's  name  not 
among  them,  I  instantly  wrote  off  to  my  poor  friend  Mrs. 
Campbell  to  tell  her  so,  when,  alas  !  the  Gazette  an- 
nounces him  this  morning  as  severely  though  not  danger- 
ously, wounded.  I  am  sincerely  grieved  for  her,  and 
quite  vexed  that  I  should  have  written,  but  I  did  it  for 
the  best.  Bonaparte  was  forty  yesterday.  There  has  long 
been  a  prophecy  that  after  that  age  he  would  not  prosper. 
God  grant  it  may  be  true  ! 

"  Mrs.  Campbell  has  had  a  letter  from  her  husband 
assuring  her  that  his  wound  was  not  dangerous.  A 
musket  ball  entered  his  nose  and  passed  through  his  ear, 
which  it  tore  in  a  dreadful  way.  But  he  declares  that 
neither  his  sight  nor  hearing  are  affected.  No  fresh  news, 
but  the  surrender  of  Flushing  is  hourly  expected.  I  had 
a  visit  on  Thursday  from  Lady  Haggerston,  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert's  sister.  I  enquired  after  Mrs.  F.  but  from  the 
coolness  of  her  answer,  I  fancy  they  are  not  on  good 
terms.  What  a  beautiful  creature  Lady  Haggerston  still 
is ! " 


CHAPTER    X 

The  Walcheren  Expedition  and  its  result — A  ball  at  Hatfield 
House — Arrival  of  Felix — Lord  Castlereagh  and  Mr.  Canning 
fight  a  duel — Riots  at  Covent  Garden — Professor  Malthus — 
A  visit  to  Ramsgate — Jubilee  of  George  III — Lord  Cranley 
as  a  poet — The  fair  Francesca — A  Royal  divorce. 

1809. 

THE  object  of  the  Walcheren  Expedition,  as 
we  need  hardly  remind  our  readers,  was  to 
destroy  Napoleon's  fleet  and  arsenals  on  the 
Scheldt,  the  troops  that  usually  defended 
them  having  been  withdrawn  in  order  to  take  part  in 
the  Austrian  campaign.  The  attacking  force — nearly 
40,000  strong — was  commanded  by  the  Earl  of  Chatham,1 
while  Sir  Richard  Strachan,  with  thirty-five  ships  of  the 
line  was  to  co-operate  with  the  land  forces.  Owing  to  a 
want  of  energy  or  initiative  on  the  part  of  its  general, 
the  expedition  was  a  miserable  failure. 

"  Great  Chatham,  with  his  sabre  drawn, 
Stood  waiting  for  Sir  Richard  Strachan, 
Sir  Richard,  longing  to  be  at  'em, 
Stood  waiting  for  the  Earl  of  Chatham." 

The  above  epigram  probably  describes  the  situation. 
The  disastrous  result  was  predicted  by  Napoleon,  who, 
however,  afterwards  admitted  that  Antwerp  could  have 

1  John  Pitt,  2nd  Earl  of  Chatham,  K.G.,  born  September  10th, 
1756.  He  married  July  9th,  1783,  the  Hon.  Mary  Elizabeth  Townshend, 
daughter  of  Thomas,  1st  Viscount  Sydney.  He  died  September  24th, 
1835,  when  the  Earldom  became  extinct. 

140 


i8o9]  THE  WALCHEREN  EXPEDITION  141 

been  captured  by  a  sudden  assault.  But  the  French 
were  given  time  to  escape  to  Antwerp,  and  a  glorious 
opportunity  thus  lost.  The  expedition  was  withdrawn 
almost  directly,  but  the  garrison  of  15,000  men,  who 
were  left  to  defend  the  island  of  Walcheren,  suffered  most 
severely  from  its  pestilential  swamps.  Chatham's  failure 
provoked  a  storm  of  recrimination  from  Parliament. 
He  was  nevertheless  promoted  to  the  rank  of  general  in 
1812,  and  on  the  death  of  the  Duke  of  Kent  in  1820  he 
was  made  Governor  of  Gibraltar.  He  held  that  appoint- 
ment until  his  death  in  1835,  which  took  place  at  his 
house  in  Charles  Street,  Berkeley  Square. 

"  August  28th. — I  had  the  delight  of  getting  a  letter 
from  my  beloved  Felix  from  South  Beveland.  He  says 
*  it  is  not  known  whether  they  are  to  proceed  or 
retreat,  but  it  appears  that  at  Antwerp  there  is  a  great 
force  to  resist  them.  There  is  a  great  deal  of  sickness  in 
the  army,  and  the  climate — particularly  in  Autumn — is  a 
most  unwholesome  one.  This  business  seems  to  have 
been  most  miserably  conducted,  so  much  delay  that  the 
French  have  had  time  to  collect  a  large  force  at  Antwerp, 
and  it  would  be  madness  for  us  to  attack  them.'  Sir 
Arthur  Wellesley  is  made  Baron  Douro  and  Viscount 
Wellington  of  Talavera.  I  cannot  say  I  think  he  has 
done  anything  to  deserve  such  promo t ion.' ' 

We  wonder  how  long  it  was  before  Mrs.  Calvert 
changed  her  mind  ! 

"  September  5th. — A  letter  from  Edmond  Knox  from 
on  board  the  Felicite  at  Antigua  written  in  the  highest 
health  and  spirits.  Sir  Alexander  Cochrane  had  ap- 
pointed him  to  the  Pull  tusk  *  Brig,  and  had  promised 

1  Pulltuska  is  a  town  in  Russia,  where  a  battle  was  fought  December 
26th,  1806,  between  the  Russians  and  the  French,  under  Lannes. 
In  allusion  to  his  brig  and  its  singular  name,  Edmond  Knox  wrote 


142    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

him  a  fine  sloop  soon.1  He  says  the  West  Indies  are 
perfectly  healthy  but  very  expensive." 

In  the  midst  of  her  anxiety,  Mrs.  Calvert  received  an 
invitation  to  a  dance  at  Hatfield  House,  and  "  bespoke  " 
for  Isabella  a  very 

"  pretty  muslin  dress  with  fine  lace  let  into  it.  I  am 
going  there  as  I  don't  like  to  disappoint  her.  Otherwise, 
alas  !  I  am  not  in  the  humor  for  a  ball." 

The  entertainment  was,  however,  a  great  success. 
Isabella 

"  looked  very  well,  and  danced  very  well,  and  really 
was  very  much  admired.  I  never  saw  anyone  so  happy 
as  she  was  in  my  life,  and  indeed  I  was  very  much 
gratified  and  pleased." 

"  September  21st. — Just  as  we  had  left  the  parlor 
yesterday  evening  my  beloved  Felix  unexpectedly 
arrived.  He  looks  extremely  well,  is  grown  tall,  and, 
in  short,  I  was  enchanted  to  see  him.  He  has  only  got 
leave  of  absence  for  three  or  four  days. 

"  September  2yth. — Poor  Mrs.  Campbell  is  low  about 
the  General,  and  talks  of  going  out  to  Lisbon  to  him.  The 
wound  don't  heal,  and  the  muscles  of  his  jaw  are  quite 
immovable.  They  can  just  force  a  teaspoon  with  a  little 
liquid  into  his  mouth. 

"  The  Ministry  are,  I  believe,  certainly  to  be  changed, 
but  nothing  is  yet  arranged.  Mr.  Canning  and  Lord 
Castlereagh  fought  a  duel  a  few  days  ago.  Mr.  Canning 
has  been  wounded  in  the  thigh,  but  is  doing  well.  It  is 
supposed  to  have  been  occasioned  by  this  late  expedition.2 

long  afterwards  :  "  I  was  appointed  in  1809  to  the  command  of  the 
Pull-tusk.  Charles  Napier  had  her  before  me  ;  he  had  on  the  men's 
hats  a  Russian  drawing  a  Frenchman's  tooth  !  " 

1  Captain  Knox,  though  a  keen  sailor,  retired  from  the  Navy  when 
peace  was  proclaimed  in  18 14. 

2  "  Believing  that  Canning  had  been  intriguing  against  him  behind 
his    back,    Lord    Castlereagh    demanded    satisfaction.      Such    events 


i8o9]  THE  O.P.  RIOTS  143 

"  Covent  Garden,  which  opened  last  week,  has  been  a 
scene  of  terrible  confusion  owing  to  the  price  of  admission 
being  raised,  and  also  objecting  to  Catalani's  performing.1 
In  consequence  she  has  relinquished  her  engagement 
and  the  Theatre  is  shut  up  until  some  arrangement  is 
made  about  the  prices.  They  performed,  I  think  four 
nights,  during  which  time  not  a  word  could  be  heard  of 
the  performance. 

"  Hunsdon,  October  Sth. — On  Friday  I  went  in  the 
barouche  to  Hertford  to  make  some  visits.  We  got  in  at 
Mrs.  Malthus' ;  she  seems  a  pleasant  woman.  She  is 
married  to  Mr.  Malthus,  one  of  the  Professors  of  the 
College,  a  very  clever  man,  who  has  written  upon  popula- 
tion." 

It  was  in  1798  that  Mr.  Malthus  published  anonymously 
his  first  Essay  on  Population,  which  affirmed  that  if 
population  were  permitted  to  increase  at  its  natural  rate, 
it  would  soon  overtake  the  means  of  subsistence.  Malthus 
was  born  in  the  county  of  Surrey  in  1766.  He  was 
ordained  and  afterwards  travelled  much  in  the  North  of 
Europe,  making  notes  of  whatever  he  saw.  A  very 
clever  man,  of  great  accuracy  and  knowledge  of  human 
nature,  he  exercised  much  influence  over  public  opinion, 
and  his  books  were  largely  read  even  by  those  who 
differed  from  his  principles.    He  was  appointed  Professor 

provoked  little  censure  in  those  days,  but  their  enmity  broke  up  the 
Government "  (The  Political  History  of  England,  by  William  Hunt  and 
Reginald  Poole,  m.a.,  Vol.  XI). 

1  "  In  ten  months  a  new  Covent  Garden  Theatre  had  arisen,  built 
by  Smirke,  on  the  model  of  the  Acropolis  of  Athens,  at  a  cost  of 
£1 50,000.  The  expense  being  so  heavy,  the  proprietors  raised  the 
price  of  admission  to  the  boxes  from  6s.  to  7s.,  and  to  the  pit  from 
3s.  6d.  to  4s.  The  house  opened  on  September  18th,  1809,  with  Mac- 
beth and  The  Quaker.  The  audience  was  dense  and  furious,  and  sat 
with  their  backs  to  the  stage,  or  stood  on  their  seats  to  hiss  and  hoot 
the  Kemble  family  especially,  and  not  a  word  of  the  performance  could 
be  heard.  Such  was  the  first  of  nearly  seventy  nights  of  riot,  called 
the  O.P.  (old  price)  Riots"  (Their  Majesties'  Servants,  Dr.  Doran). 


144    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

of  Political  Economy  at  the  College  of  Haileybury  in 
1805,  and  remained  there  until  his  death  in  1836. 
He  married  in  March,  1804,  Harriet,  daughter  of  John 
Eckersall  of  Claverton  House,  St.  Catherine's,  near  Bath, 
where  he  died  suddenly  of  heart  disease  on  December  23rd, 
1834,  and  he  was  buried  in  the  Abbey  Church  at  Bath. 

A  Captain  Gosselin,  a  sailor,  whose  acquaintance  Mrs. 
Calvert  made  about  this  time,  told  her  that  he  had  taken 
Sir  John  Moore  to  Sweden,  and  was  to  have  brought  him 
back  from  Spain.  He  was  in  the  room  with  him  when 
he  died. 

"  Albemarle  Street,  October  15th. — The  riots  at  Co  vent 
Garden  still  continue.  I  hear  that  when  Lord  Mulgrave 
went  to  the  King  to  speak  to  him  about  Lord  Castlereagh 
and  Mr.  Canning,  he  stopped  him  before  he  could  say  a 
word,  exclaiming,  '  I  know  two  Cabinet  Ministers  have 
fought  a  duel,  but  I  don't  want  to  hear  any  more  about 
them.'  " 

Towards  the  end  of  that  month  Mrs.  Calvert  and 
Isabella  went  to  stay  with  the  Knoxes  at  Ramsgate. 

"  We  slept  at  the  George  Inn,  Sittingbourne,  breakfasted 
at  Canterbury,  and  arrived  at  two  o'clock.  We  found 
no  one  but  Mr.  Knox  and  Fanny,  as  my  sister,  Thomas 
and  Edmond  had  sailed  to  the  Downs." 

Amusements  were  simple  in  those  days,  and  young 
people  easily  pleased.    The  next  night 

"  Lady  Wellington  dined  here  ;  in  the  evening  came  the 
Duchess  of  Manchester,1  Lady  Saltoun,2  her  son  Lord 
Saltoun,  and  two  daughters,  and  several  other  people. 

1  William,  5th  Duke  of  Manchester,  married  1793  Lady  Susan 
Gordon,  daughter  of  Alexander,  4th  Duke  of  Gordon. 

2  Alexander,  15th  Baron  Saltoun,  married  1784  Margaret,  daughter 
of  Simon  Fraser,  and  died  1793. 


i8o9]  THE  DUCHESS  OF  HAMILTON  145 

There  was  a  fiddle,  and  twelve  couples  danced  till  past 
twelve  o'clock.    Isabella  was,  of  course,  very  happy. 

"  Nothing  is  talked  of  here  but  the  approaching 
Jubilee  on  the  King's  having  reigned  fifty  years  ;  a 
most  absurd  business.  Lady  Emily  Percy  is  to  be 
married  to  Lord  James  Murray,1  and  Lord  Douglas  to  Miss 
Susan  Beckford,  who  is,  I  am  told,  the  most  beautiful, 
fascinating,  and  accomplished  of  creatures." 

Lady  Douglas,  afterwards  Duchess  of  Hamilton,  was 
indeed  a  wonderful  musician,  a  great  beauty,  and  a 
faithful  friend.  But,  in  spite  of  all  this,  her  life  was  a  very 
unhappy  one,  and  full  of  bitter  disappointments. 

"  1809.  October  24th. — It  was  reported  here  yesterday 
that  Princess  Amelia  was  dead  ;  should  that  be  true, 
there  would  be  no  Jubilee,  which  would  be  no  loss. 

"  October  2jth. — A  transport  arrived  with  sick  from 
Walcheren.  Lady  Dering  fortunately  told  me  they  were 
landing  on  the  Pier,  for  I  should  not  like  to  have  gone 
among  them.  One  was  brought  on  shore  dead,  and 
another  dropped  down  dead  going  into  the  barracks. 
They  were,  I  hear,  a  most  deplorable  spectacle.  They 
say  the  illness  is  decreasing  at  Walcheren,  but  they  are 
in  prodigious  want  of  fresh  provision,  bark  and  port  wine ; 
the  two  last  being  quite  indispensable. 

"  October  29th. — Yesterday  we  dined  at  Mrs.  Townley's. 
There  were  sixteen  at  dinner,  among  the  rest  the  Duchess 
of  Manchester,  who  is  lively,  pleasant,  and  eccentric. 
The  papers  declare  that  Bonaparte  is  mad,  but  for  this 
I  fear  there  is  no  foundation.  Peace  was  signed  between 
France  and  Austria  on  the  fourteenth  of  this  month. 

"  November  yd. — The  riots  at  Covent  Garden  are 
worse  than  ever,  and  begin  to  assume  a  most  terrifying 
aspect.     They  stormed  Kemble's  house,  and  broke  all 

1  General  Lord  James  Murray,  k.h.,  afterwards  created  Lord 
Glenlyon.  Married  May,  1810,  Lady  Emily  Frances  Percy,  fourth 
daughter  of  Hugh,  2nd  Duke  of  Northumberland,  k.g.  His  eldest 
son  succeeded  his  uncle  as  6th  Duke  of  Atholl  in  September,  1846. 

L 


146    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1809 

his  windows.     They  set  their  faces  particularly  against 
the  private  boxes. 

"  1809.  November  gth. — Lord  Cranley  *  visited  us 
again  yesterday  evening.  He  had  been  making  verses 
on  a  very  ridiculous  occurrence,  Mrs.  Chaplin  taking  a 
cloak  of  mine  last  May  from  an  Assembly  at  Lady 
Somers'.  I  missed  my  comfortable  cloak,  but  never 
knew  who  had  taken  it  till  a  few  days  ago,  when  I  met 
her  walking  with  it  on.  I  instantly  challenged  it  and  she 
owned  she  had  taken  it  as  she  could  not  find  her  own. 
I  expected  as  soon  as  I  claimed  it  she  would  send  it  back. 
No  such  thing,  but  at  last,  after  her  friends  the  Warres 
had  over  and  over  again  represented  to  her  the  impro- 
priety of  her  keeping  what  did  not  belong  to  her,  I 
received  the  following  note  : 

"  '  My  dear  Madam, 

"'I  forgot  to  tell  you  yesterday  that  since  you 
claim  the  brown  cloak,  it  has  never  been  worn,  and  if 
you  like  to  have  it  after  my  use  of  six  months  I  beg  you 
will  say  so,  and  it  shall  be  returned. 

"  '  Yours  sincerely, 

"  '  Bettina  Chaplin.' 

"  I  returned  the  following  answer  : 

"  ■  Dear  Madam, 

"' I  am  quite  sorry  you  have  had  the  trouble  of 
writing  a  note  about  the  cloak,  which  is  of  no  sort  of 
consequence.  If  you  like  to  give  it  to  my  maid,  I  dare  to 
say  she  will  be  very  thankful,  and  not  mind  your  having 

" '  Sincerely  Yours, 

"  'F.  C.'" 

Would  it  be  possible  to  stab  anybody  with  more 
politeness  ? 

1  Arthur  George,  afterwards  3rd  Earl  of  Onslow.  He  was  born 
1777,  and  married  in  18 18  Mary,  eldest  daughter  of  George  Fludyer 
of  Ayston,  Rutlandshire.  He  died  1870,  and  was  succeeded  by  his 
grand-nephew,  the  present  Earl  of  Onslow,  g.c.m.g. 


i8o9]  LORD  CRANLEY  AS  A  POET  147 

"  The  cloak  accordingly  was  sent  home,  and  Time  well 
looks  very  smart  in  it,  but  it  is  an  odd  transaction  for  a 
gentlewoman. 

"  Lord  Cranley  has  written  the  two  following  copies  of 
verses  on  the  occasion  : 

"  '  That  Bettina  should  steal  lovely  Calvert's  best  cloak, 
Was  not  moral,  nor  civil,  and  not  a  good  joke. 
If  each  woman  who  wore  it  could  look  like  you  in  it, 
I  think  you  would  lose  a  cloak  every  minute. 
The  humble  petition  of  F.  C.  to  Bettina  Chaplin,  widow,  etc., 
I  venture,  dear  Madam,  with  humble  submission, 
To  submit  to  your  notice  my  present  petition, 
And  to  trust  to  that  candour,  good  breeding  and  taste, 
With  which  all  your  acquaintance  must  feel  you  are  graced 
I  can't  fail  in  my  object,  I'm  sure  of  success. 
You'll  meet  my  ideas,  I  shall  meet  your  redress, 
And  I  really  imagined  before  I  had  spoke, 
You'd  have  saved  this  petition,  by  sending  my  cloak. 
To  the  loss  of  your  Own,  you  of  course  must  resign, 
There's  no  reason  in  Ethics  why  I  should  lose  mine. 
So  depend  on't  dear  Betty  to-morrow  I'll  call. 
I'm  determined  I  won't  lose  my  time  or  my  shawl. 
The  men  will  all  tell  you  again  and  again, 
Nature  never  ordained  me  to  sue  much  in  vain. 
Don't  be  deaf  to  entreaty,  my  case  is  distressing, 
Though  I'm  undressed  by  you,  yet  I  owe  you  a  dressing. 
Therefore,  take  my  advice,  and  let  this  be  your  line, 
Get  a  cloak  for  your  conduct,  but  send  me  back  mine.' 

"  'An  irregular  ode  to  her  Cloak,  by  the  Hon.  F.  C.  after 
the  manner  of  that  sublime  work  entitled  "This  is  the 
House  that  Jack  Built.' ' 

" '  This  is  the  cloak  that  I  lost, 
This  is  the  lady  all  forlorn, 

By  whom  the  poor  cloak  was  so  tattered  and  torn, 
And  for  five  or  six  months  so  indecently  worn. 
The  cloak  of  the  fair  Francesca, 
This  is  Francesca's  own  favourite  maid, 
Who  declared  to  her  Lady,  "  She  was  not  afraid, 
In  earnest  or  joke 
To  accept  of  the  cloak 


148    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

Which  the  lady  forlorn 

Had  so  shamefully  torn, 

And  for  so  many  months  so  indecently  worn." 

The  cloak  of  the  fair  Francesca, 

This  is  the  man  who  applauded  the  maid 

For  telling  the  Lady  "  she  was  not  afraid," 

And  for  claiming  her  right, 

In  truth  and  in  spite, 

Of  the  vile  machinations 

And  black  speculations 

Of  the  lady  forlorn, 

Who  so  vilely  had  torn, 

And  so  shamefully  worn 

The  cloak  of  the  fair  Francesca. 

And  this  is  the  man,  who  one  truth  will  disclose. 

He  declares  open  war  against  any  of  those 

Who  appear  in  the  light  of  dear  Frances's  foes. 

The  fairest  of  all  Francesca's, 

For  this  is  a  feeling  he'll  never  revoke, 

If  'twere  even  the  very  last  word  that  he  spoke, 

He  adores  and  he  envies  the  cap  or  the  cloak, 

That  covers  the  fair  Francesca.' 

"  All  these  verses  have  made  such  a  noise  in  Ramsgate 
that  I  hope,  for  poor  Mrs.  Chaplin's  sake,  it  will  soon  be 
dropped." 

On  their  way  from  Ramsgate,  the  Calverts  stayed  at 
Cobham  Hall,  Lord  Darnley's  beautiful  old  place  in 
Kent. 

"  We  found  in  addition  to  themselves,  Charles  Brown- 
low,  Lady  Darnley's  eldest  brother,  and  his  daughter. 
I  think  I  never  beheld  so  affected  a  girl  as  Miss  Brownlow. 
She  was  as  entertaining  as  a  scene  in  a  play — die-away, 
and  romantic  in  every  action,  indeed  it  made  me  sick." 

Happily,  this  is  a  type  wellnigh  extinct  ! 

"  I  cannot  say  Lord  Darnley  is  a  favourite  of  mine, 
he  has  so  much  hauteur  about  him.    But  I  believe  he  is  a 


JOHN,    4TH    EARL   OF    DARNLEY 
Gainsborousli 


i8o9]  LADY  HARRIET  CAVENDISH  149 

very  good  man,  and  certainly  he  is  one  of  the  best  and 
most  attentive  husbands  I  ever  saw,  and  Lady  Darnley 
is  a  most  excellent  woman,  and  has  been  beautiful. 

"  Hunsdon,  November  igth. — Lady  Harriet  Cavendish 
is  to  be  married  to  Lord  Granville  Leveson." 

Lady  Harriet  was  the  younger  daughter  of  the  beautiful 
Duchess  of  Devonshire,  very  clever  and  extremely 
charming,  as  all  will  agree  who  have  read  her  delightful 
letters.  She  is  better  known  as  Lady  Granville,  the 
popular  Ambassadress  who  spent  so  many  years  in  Paris, 
until  her  husband's  failing  health  obliged  him  to  give  up 
his  post  in  1841. 

Two  nephews  of  Mrs.  Calvert,  Thomas  and  Edmond 
Knox,  came  down  to  escort  her  to  the  Hertford  Ball,  but 
this  proved  rather  a  disappointment. 

"  Isabella's  figure  did  not  look  well,  and  her  neck  was 
more  uncovered  than  she  or  I  liked.  It  fretted  me  all 
the  time,  and  so  it  did  her,  and  made  her  stoop  in  order 
to  hide  her  nakedness." 

Poor  dear  Isabella  !    But  brighter  days  were  coming. 

"  Mr.  Brand  and  Sir  John  Sebright  were  stewards.  Mr. 
Brand  led  off  with  Lady  Georgiana  Cecil,1  and  afterwards 
danced  with  Mrs.  Sheridan,  wife  of  the  great  orator. 
She  is  a  most  dashing  looking  woman,  and  dances  in  a 
most  dashing  style." 

Sheridan's  first  wife,  the  beautiful  Miss  Linley,  died 
in  1792,  and  three  years  later  he  married  a  Miss  Ogle,  who 
had  a  fortune  of  £5000.  She  was  first  cousin  of  the  Miss 
Ogle  (Mrs.  Wilmot)  whom  Mr.  Brand  afterwards  married. 

1  Lady  Georgiana  Cecil  married,  as  his  second  wife,  February  27th, 
18 16,  the  1st  Lord  Cowley,  g.c.b.  Her  only  child,  Georgiana,  married 
December  9th,  1848,  Henry,  Lord  Dalling  and  Bulwer,  who  d.s.p.  1872. 


150    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1809 

"  December  gth. — I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  Edmond 
Knox,  who  tells  me  a  ludicrous  anecdote  relating  to  Lord 
Wellesley's  entry  into  Seville.  The  mob  took  the  horses 
from  his  carriage,  and  drew  him  along.  A  woman  among 
them,  quite  six  feet  high,  was  not  content  with  that, 
but  took  his  little  Lordship  in  her  arms  out  of  the  carriage, 
and  carried  him,  kissing  and  hugging  him  all  the  time, 
to  where  the  junta  was  assembled,  and  put  him  down 
among  them,  saying  she  had  brought  them  the  saviour 
of  their  country. 

"  December  29th. — On  Christmas  day  my  beloved 
Felix  arrived  in  high  health,  spirits  and  beauty.  I  think 
he  is  much  improved.  On  Tuesday  he  went  out  hunting 
on  a  new  hunter,  for  which  his  father  had  given  100 
guineas. 

"  Bonaparte  and  Josephine  have,  by  mutual  consent, 
divorced  themselves,  as  they  have  agreed  that  for  the 
good  of  France,  it  is  right  that  Bonaparte  should  marry  a 
younger  woman  in  order  to  have  children.  It  makes  one 
sick  to  read  their  hypocritical  expressions  of  affection, 
grief  etc.  at  the  sacrifice  they  are  making  for  the  good  of 
their  country,  and  the  mean  flattery  of  all  around  them 
is  quite  disgusting.  Holland  is  to  be  annexed  to  Bona- 
parte's dominions.  Alas !  poor  England.  Everything 
seems  to  prosper  with  Bony,  and  we  have  such  a  set  of 
dolts  for  Ministers  that  really  it  is  most  disheartening.' ' 


ELIZABETH    BROWNLOW,    4TH    COUNTESS    OF 
From  a  picture  by  Hopp?wr 


CHAPTER   XI 

Twelfth  Night — Lady  Keith — Isabella  goes  to  Court — Disappear- 
ance of  the  Hon.  William  Eden — His  body  found  in  the 
Thames — Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone — A  change  of  houses — 
Capture  of  Guadaloupe — Sir  Francis  Burdett  is  taken  to 
the  Tower — Terrible  riots  in  London — Marriage  of  Lord  Ely 
— Felix  Calvert  is  given  a  staff  appointment — A  Venetian 
breakfast — Attempted  murder  of  the  Duke  of  Cumberland — 
Release  of  Sir  Francis  Burdett. 


"  Jan.  3rd,  1810. 

THE  papers  say  that  Princess  Amelia  is  very 
ill.  Should  that  be  so  there  will  probably  be 
no  Birthday,  which  would  be  a  great  dis- 
appointment to  Isabella.    She  was  to  be  pre- 
sented on  that  day. 
"  January  8th. — The  children  amused  themselves  on 
Twelfth  Night  dressing  themselves  in  character,  and  they 
were  very  merry. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  St.,  Jan.  12th. — I  went  yesterday  to 
Miss  Hare's  to  bespeak  Isabella's  and  my  birthday  gown. 
Hers  is  to  be  white  satin  and  beads  ;  mine  yellow  and 
silver.  There  are,  however,  so  many  reports  floating  about 
that  there  will  be  no  Birthday  that  I  have  sent  to  her  to 
suspend  operations. 

"  I  believe  there  will  certainly  be  an  American  war — 
bad  accounts  from  the  West  Indies. 

"  After  all  Bonaparte  has  not  annexed  Holland  as  I 
thought  to  his  territories.  Lady  Keith  has  produced  a 
daughter — she  is  fifty  years  old." 

This  enterprising  lady,  better  known  as  Queenie  Thrale, 

151 


152    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

was  a  daughter  of  the  celebrated  Mrs.  Thrale  and  married 
in  1808,  as  his  second  wife,  Admiral  Viscount  Keith,  one 
of  the  most  distinguished  naval  commanders  of  the  time. 
Lady  Keith,  who  was,  like  her  mother,  the  friend  of  Dr. 
Johnson,  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  and  Fanny  Burney,  lived 
for  many  years  at  no  Piccadilly,  and  died  in  1857  at 
the  age  of  ninety-five. 

"  January  igth. — Yesterday  was  a  very  busy  day, 
being  the  Birthday.  We  were  dressing,  I  think,  all  the 
morning.  Isabella  had  a  white  satin  gown,  a  petticoat 
of  crape  and  beads,  and  seven  white  ostrich  feathers  in 
her  head.  She  looked  very  handsome  and  yet,  upon  the 
whole,  my  expectations  were  disappointed.  I  was  dressed 
in  a  yellow  satin  gown,  the  petticoat  white  and  silver, 
my  diamonds  were  new  set,  and  looked  very  brilliant. 
We  had  quite  a  levee  to  see  us,  and  maidservants  without 
end.  For  the  time  of  the  year  it  was  a  full  Court.  The 
Prince  and  the  Princesses,  and  indeed  everyone  I  knew 
at  Court  expressed  their  surprise  at  seeing  me  with  a  grown 
up  daughter.  The  Queen  asked  me  how  many  children  I 
had.  I  told  her  the  number,  and  added  that  my  eldest 
son  had  the  honour  of  serving  His  Majesty  in  the  Army. 

"  When  she  spoke  to  my  sister,  the  Queen  told  her  that 
her  niece  had  just  been  presented  to  her,  and  said  some 
handsome  things  of  her,  adding  however,  what  did  not 
gratify  my  vanity  in  the  least,  '  but  she  is  not  so  hand- 
some as  her  mother/  I  would  rather  she  had  said  the 
reverse.  Princesses  Augusta  and  Elizabeth  and  the  merry 
Dukes  of  Kent,  Sussex,  Cambridge  and  Cumberland  were 
there  also,  the  Princess  of  Wales  and  the  Duchess  of  York, 
but  not  the  Prince  of  Wales. 

"  Isabella  liked  the  drawing  room  very  much.  She 
heard  around  a  good  many  praises  of  her  beauty,  which 
I  dare  say  gratified  her,  and  her  manners  were  very  good 
and  very  composed,  but  she  did  not  hold  herself  well." 

It  seems  that  Mrs.  Devis  had  much  to  answer  for. 


i8io]  DISAPPEARANCE  OF  MR.  EDEN  153 

"  Yesterday  we  visited  Albinia,  Dowager  Countess  of 
Buckinghamshire,1  as  she  styles  herself.  She  has  built 
herself  a  house  which  she  calls  Hobart  House.2  It  is  '  at 
the  end  of  the  world ! '   beyond  Grosvenor  Place. 

"  January  25th. — A  dreadful  thing  has  happened  in  the 
Auckland's  family.  Mr.  Eden,  Lord  Auckland's  eldest 
son,  a  fine  sensible  young  man  of  twenty  five,  the  idol 
of  his  parents,  went  out  on  Friday  night,  about  nine 
o'clock,  saying  he  would  be  home  in  half-an-hour.  From 
that  time  to  this  he  has  never  been  heard  of.  His  family 
are  distracted,  and  hand  bills  are  being  circulated  to  try 
and  discover  what  has  become  of  him.  There  are  great 
fears  that  he  has  been  murdered,  but  all  is  full  of  mystery. 

"  February  2nd. — That  tiresome  Sir  John  Sebright 
came  at  eleven  o'clock  to  tea,  and  stayed  till  half  past  two 
in  the  morning." 

Query  : — What  could  an  unfortunate  hostess  do  in  such 
a  case  ? 

"  February  16th. — John  3  is  just  arrived  from  Sicily. 
He  has  grown  so  fat  that  he  is  not  near  so  well-looking 
as  he  was. 

"  February  21st. — Sir  David  Baird,  whom  I  like  very 
much,  called  on  me.  He  seems  to  have  quite  recovered 
the  use  of  his  arm. 

"  February  2jth. — Mr.  Eden's  body  has  been  found  in 
the  Thames.  It  was  identified  by  his  watch  and  seals. 
Mr.  Percival  has  given  his  place,  Teller  of  the  Exchequer, 
to  Mr.  Yorke  ;  4  it  is  worth  £3000  per  annum.  Last 
night  we  went  to  a  children's  ball  at  Lady  Darnley's, 

1  George,  3rd  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  married  1757  Albinia, 
daughter  and  co-heiress  of  Lord  Vere  Bertie,  and  granddaughter  of 
Robert,  1st  Duke  of  Ancaster.     She  died  18 16. 

2  Nothing  remains  of  the  original  Hobart  House. 

3  John  Knox,  her  nephew,  who  was  particularly  handsome. 

4  The  Right  Hon.  Charles  Philip  York,  2nd  son  of  Lord  Chancellor 
York,  who  died  suddenly  January  22nd,  1770.  He  was  sometime  First 
Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  F.R.S.,  F.S.A.  Born  March  12th,  1764,  married 
July  1st,  1790,  Harriott,  daughter  of  Charles  Manningham.  He  d.s.p. 
March  13th,  1834. 


154    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1810 

Isabella  was  extremely  admired.  The  Prince  of  Wales, 
Dukes  of  Cumberland  and  Gloucester  and  the  Persian 
Ambassador  were  there. 

"  I  had  so  many  compliments  paid  me  about  Isabella 
that  I  came  home  quite  conceited.  Lord  Darnley  said 
she  was  by  far  the  handsomest  girl  in  the  room. 

"  March  6th. — A  grand  dinner  party  at  my  sister's  ; 
the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  Lord  and  Lady  Keith,  Miss 
Mercer  Elphinstone,  a  great  heiress  &c." 

A  great  celebrity  was  Margaret  Mercer  Elphinstone, 
the  only  child  of  Lord  Keith  by  his  first  marriage.  She 
was  born  in  1788,  and,  her  mother  dying  the  following 
year,  she  later  on  inherited  the  Barony  of  Nairne,  which 
had  been  in  abeyance.  She  was  very  ugly — nevertheless, 
Hoppner  represents  her  as  a  very  lovely  woman — and 
Mrs.  Calvert,  who  did  not  mince  matters,  spoke  of  her 
as  "  detestable."  At  one  time  she  was  very  intimate  with 
the  Princess  Charlotte,  but,  having  been  accused  of 
betraying  some  of  the  latter's  confidences  to  the  Prince 
Regent,  the  friendship  cooled  considerably  and  never 
was  resumed.  It  seemed  probable  that  Miss  Elphinstone 
would  marry  the  6th  Duke  of  Devonshire,  but  after  her 
rupture  with  the  Princess  all  chance  of  this  brilliant 
match  was  at  an  end.  Miss  Elphinstone  had  a  passion 
for  political  intrigue  and  scandal.  She  married  in  1817, 
at  Edinburgh,  the  Comte  de  Flahault,  aide-de-camp  to 
Bonaparte  and  a  great  favourite  of  his,  a  very  handsome 
and  agreeable  officer,  said  to  be  the  son  of  Talleyrand  by 
Madame  de  Souza ; *  Monsieur  de  Flahault  became  Am- 
bassador at  Rome,  Vienna,  and  afterwards  to  St.  James's. 
For  a  short  time  he  and  his  wife  lived  at  106  Piccadilly. 
Harriet,  Lady  Granville,  describes  Mme.  de  Flahault  in 

1  The  Creevey  Papers,  Vol.  I,  page  250. 


i8io]  MISS  MERCER  ELPHINSTONE  155 

1842  as  "  much  softened  in  manner  and  subdued  in 
spirits,  very  agreeable,  and  with  the  finest  teeth  in  the 
world ;  the  asperity  of  her  countenance  quite  gone." 
She  died  in  Paris  in  1867,  aged  seventy-nine.  Her 
daughter,  Baroness  Nairne,  married  Henry,  4th  Marquess 
of  Lansdowne,  and  was  mother  of  the  present  Lord  Lans- 
downe. 

Much  to  her  vexation,  Mrs.  Calvert  was  obliged  that 
spring  to  part  with  her  pretty  house  in  Albemarle  Street. 

"  Our  object  in  doing  so  is  to  get  our  London  establish- 
ment into  a  smaller  scale,  as  in  these  hard  times,  we  should 
find  a  large  house  in  Town  and  a  large  one  in  the  Country 
too  more  than  we  could  well  afford.  It  is  a  bitter  pill  after 
being  accustomed  to  this  large  mansion,  but  I  take  my 
physic  well,  and  indeed  it  was  my  own  proposal,  for 
Mr.  C.  is  so  kind  to  me,  that  though  he  wished  it,  the 
suggestion  never  would  have  come  from  him. 

"  March  13th. — Yesterday  I  took  a  house  No.  5 
Hanover  Square,  till  the  end  of  October.  I  hope  Mr.  C. 
will  be  satisfied  with  what  I  have  done.  The  Square  looks 
so  cheerful  and  pleasant  that  I  should^always  like  to  live 
in  one. 

"  We  have  taken  Guadaloupe.1 

"  Great  preparations  are  being  made  for  the  arrival 
of  Bonaparte's  bride,  the  Archduchess  Maria  Louisa  of 
Austria.  There  is  a  report  (which  nobody  believes)  that 
she  has  eloped  to  avoid  the  marriage. 

"  March  2yd. — On  Wednesday  night  we  went  to  a 
grand  ball  at  the  Duchess  of  Dorset's.  We  supped,  but 
left  directly  after  supper,  Isabella  hates  dancing,  and  did 
not  like  it  near  so  well  as  an  Assembly.  No  one  ever 
was  more  admired  than  Isabella.  It  is  far  beyond  my 
most  sanguine  expectations. 

1  Guadaloupe,  a  West  Indian  island,  was  discovered  by  Columbus 
in  1493.  Having  been  taken  several  times  by  the  English,  it  was 
eventually  restored  to  France  in  1814. 


156    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

"  April  2nd. — Isabella  and  I  went  to  a  very  select,  but 
very  dull  party  at  Lady  Sefton's.1  We  went  for  the 
honour  and  glory  of  it,  as  it  was  very  fine.  Afterwards 
we  went  to  a  concert  at  my  sister's,  where  Catalani  etc., 
sang. 

"  William  Pery  2  has  been  playing  the  deuce.  He  ran 
away  from  his  ship  more  than  once.  However  they 
hushed  up  the  matter,  and  the  Limericks  think  we  know 
nothing  of  it.  He  is  going  to  leave  the  Navy  and  go  into 
the  Army,  the  excuse  being  that  he  prefers  it." 

Sir  Francis  Burdett  3  became  at  this  time  a  very  im- 
portant public  character.  As  Member  for  Westminster 
he  supported  Mr.  Jones,  a  Radical  orator,  in  a  seditious 
speech,  was  accused  by  Mr.  Lethbridge  of  breach  of 
privilege,  and  a  warrant  issued  for  his  arrest.  The  West- 
minster mob  gathered  to  protect  him,  and  very  stormy 
scenes  were  the  result.  At  last  he  was  conveyed  to  the 
Tower,  where  he  remained  some  weeks,  the  town  mean- 
while being  guarded  by  thousands  of  soldiers. 

"  The  Ministers  carried  their  point  of  sending  him  to 
the  Tower,  and  a  pretty  piece  of  business  they  have 
made  of  it.  He  will  not  surrender  himself,  and  London 
has  been  ever  since  in  a  state  beyond  description.  God 
knows  how  it  will  end.  The  Military  are  out  day  and 
night ;  there  has  been  firing  and  some  lives  lost.  On 
Friday  night  just  after  I  had  got  into  bed,  I  was  alarmed 
by  hearing  '  Light  up,  light  up  !  '  and  on  getting  up  I 
found  that  the  mob  had  come  through  the  Square,  in- 
sisting upon  everybody  illuminating,  and  breaking  the 
windows  of  those  who  would  not.    We  of  course  put  lights 

1  William  Philip,  2nd  Earl  of  Sefton,  married  1792  Maria,  daughter 
of  the  6th  Lord  Craven. 

2  The  Hon.  William  Pery,  born  in  1791,  was  killed  at  St.  Sebastian 
in  1813. 

3  The  third  son  of  Sir  Robert  Burdett,  he  was  born  1770,  and  in 
1793  married  Miss  Sophia  Coutts. 


i8io]  SIR  FRANCIS  BURDETT  157 

in  the  windows,  and  were  obliged  to  do  the  same  last 
night. 

"  Some  of  the  Knox's  were  broke  also,  but  the  mob 
sent  a  message  by  the  watchman  to  apologise  for  it,  as 
they  had  mistaken  the  house/' 

Sir  Francis  Burdett  was  probably  the  most  popular 

politician  of  his  time.     Mr.   J.   H.   Jesse  identifies  the 

house  No.  80  Piccadilly,  one  door  east  from  the  corner 

of  Bolton  Street,  as  that  from  which  he  was  carried  to 

the  Tower.    He  quotes  the  following  jeu  d' esprit  on  the 

arrest  : 

"  The  Lady  she  sat  and  she  played  on  the  lute, 
And  she  sang,  '  Will  ye  come  to  my  bower  ? ' 
The  Sergeant-at-arms  had  stood  hitherto  mute 
But  now  he  advanced,  like  an  impudent  brute 
And  said,  '  Will  you  come  to  the  Tower  ? ' "  * 

"  Will  you  come  to  my  bower  ?  "  was  a  popular  ditty 
in  those  days.  We  who  know  our  Thackeray  can  re- 
member that  it  was  one  of  the  weapons  with  which 
Glorvina  O'Dowd  laid  siege  in  vain  to  the  affections  of 
Major  Dobbin. 

"  I  dined  yesterday  at  Grosvenor  Street.  Lord  and 
Lady  Temple,  Lord  and  Lady  Spencer,  and  some  men 
dined  there.  Of  course,  there  was  no  conversation  ex- 
cept about  the  riots.  Between  nine  and  ten,  Lady 
Temple,  who  was  going  to  the  Opera  set  me  down  at 
home.  We  found  the  streets  in  this  neighbourhood,  and 
in  the  Square  all  illuminated,  as  the  mob  had  been  there 
not  long  before,  but  were  dispersed  by  a  party  of  horse. 
The  Military  paraded  the  streets  all  night,  and  so  I  sup- 
pose they  will  to-night. 

"  Lord  Limerick  has  just  been  here.  He  went  to  the 
Opera  last  night,  which,  he  says,  was  very  thin,  as  people 
were  afraid  to  go,  which,  I  am  sure  I  don't  wonder  at.  He 
got  into  the  crowd  while  they  were  firing,  which  was 

1  Old  and  New  London,  E.  Walford. 


158    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1810 

enough  to  terrify  anyone.  Many  families,  I  hear,  have 
left  Town.  It  came  into  my  head  last  night,  when 
frightened,  to  carry  off  the  children  there  to-day,  but, 
reflecting  that  Mr.  C.  will  be  in  Town  to-morrow,  I  know 
I  should  be  terrified  away  from  him.  This  part  of  the 
Town  is  very  quiet  at  present,  but  Heaven  knows  what 
is  going  on  in  Piccadilly.    It  is  a  very  anxious  moment. 

"  April  10th. — I  drove  out  on  Sunday  to  see  what  was 
going  on.  I  did  not  actually  go  into  Piccadilly,  but  went 
into  Albemarle  Street,  and  I  saw  the  crowd,  the  military, 
and  cannon  planted  in  Berkeley  Square.  Felix  arrived 
in  Town  before  dinner.  We  spent  the  evening  at  home  ; 
everything  went  off  quietly.  We  had  dragoons  all  the 
night  in  the  Square,  yet  we  were  fools  enough  to  illumin- 
ate, although  no  mob  came  near  us. 

"  Yesterday  morning  Sir  Francis  was  at  last  seized 
and  carried  to  the  Tower.  There  was  an  immense  mob, 
and  the  military  fired,  and  some  lives  were  lost,  but, 
considering  all,  I  think  there  were  fewer  accidents  than 
one  could  have  expected.  He  has  written  a  most  im- 
pertinent letter  to  the  Speaker,  which  is  to  be  debated 
upon  to-day.  Mr.  C.  arrived  in  Town  yesterday ;  every- 
thing went  off  quickly  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  the 
mob  all  dispersed  after  Sir  F.  was  lodged  in  the  Tower, 
but  I  suppose  they  expect  more  riots,  as  such  quantities 
of  troops  are  ordered  up. 

"  April  nth. — Everything  continues  quiet.  Felix  is 
gone  to-day  to  join  his  regiment  in  Soho  Square.  He 
came  to  visit  me  in  his  regimentals,  and  looked  very 
handsome. 

"  April  16th. — Lord  Ely1  is  to  be  married  directly  to 
Miss  Dash  wood.  She  is  a  very  amiable  young  woman, 
and  in  point  of  rank  and  fortune  he  is  a  great  match,  but 
I  cannot  say,  were  I  a  young  woman,  he  would  be  to  my 
taste.  She  seems  prodigiously  happy,  so  I  suppose  she 
likes  him,  though  I  think  him  a  very  disagreeable  man. 

1  John  Loftus,  2nd  Marquess  of  Ely,  was  born  1770,  and  married 
1 8 10  Anna  Maria,  daughter  of  Sir  H.  W.  Dashwood,  who  died  1857. 


i8io]        DEATH  OF  LORD  COLLINGWOOD  159 

"  April  18th. — Yesterday  we  had  a  visit  from  the 
Persian  Ambassador.  He  came  to  the  door  to  show 
himself  on  horseback,  and  Mr.  C.  went  out  and  invited 
him  in.  Mary  was  so  afraid  of  his  beard  and  cried  so,  I 
was  obliged  to  send  her  out  of  the  room. 

"  He  really  is  very  well-looking  and  pleasing,  and 
though  he  had  no  interpreter  with  him,  we  contrived  to 
make  ourselves  understood. 

"  That  gallant  Commander,  Lord  Collingwood  is  dead. 
His  remains  are  arrived  in  England." 

Admiral  Lord  Collingwood  was  born  at  Newcastle 
1750,  and  went  to  sea  as  a  midshipman  at  the  age  of 
eleven.  He  was  an  intimate  friend  of  Nelson,  and,  after 
the  latter  had  received  his  death  wound,  he  assumed  the 
command  and  gloriously  completed  the  victory  so 
splendidly  begun.  He  was  a  thorough  sailor,  unsurpassed 
by  any  officer  in  the  Navy,  and  beloved  by  all  ranks.  He 
died  at  sea  March  7th,  1810. 

"  April  igth. — General  Graham,1  who  commands  at 
Cadiz,  has  written  at  Mr.  Brand's  request  to  offer  to  take 
Felix  into  his  family  as  Aide-de-camp.  Felix,  is  of  course 
in  raptures.  He  has  got  leave  to  go  from  the  Commander- 
in-Chief,  and  will  proceed  to  Cadiz  as  soon  as  he  can  get 
a  passage.  I  am  not  in  raptures,  but  I  reconcile  myself 
to  the  idea  from  seeing  him  so  happy,  and  hearing  what 
a  very  advantageous  thing  it  is  for  him. 

"  May  1st. — I  took  Lavinia  yesterday  to  a  children's 
ball  at  Mrs.  Beaumont's.  She  was  certainly  the  prettiest 
girl  there,  and  her  figure  superior  to  any. 

"  Mr.  Yorke  is  now  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  and 
poor  Lord  and  Lady  Hardwicke  have  lost  their  only  son, 
who  died  of  scarlet  fever.  How  I  feel  for  them  !  It  is 
just  two  years  since  Lord  Roys  ton  was  drowned. 

"  The  children  and  I  walked  to-day  in  Kensington 

1  Afterwards  Baron  Lynedoch. 


160    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

Gardens,  where  we  met  the  Persian  Ambassador  who 
walked  a  little  way  with  us.  We  saw  him  throw  his 
javelin  several  times  at  one  of  his  attendants  on  horse- 
back, who  had  to  show  his  dexterity  by  avoiding  the 
blow,  which  to  say  the  truth  seemed  rather  a  service  of 
danger." 

This  fiery  Eastern  potentate  showed  such  warm  admira- 
tion of  the  lovely  Isabella  that  we  at  one  time  trembled 
lest  he  should  make  proposals  for  her  hand,  but  matters 
never  seem  to  have  gone  quite  so  far  as  this. 

"  May  6th. — The  poor  Hardwickes  are  come  to  Town. 
They  are  very  composed,  I  hear,  indeed,  they  say  her 
composure  is  frightful.  She  never  speaks  or  cries,  but 
seems  quite  transfixed.  God  help  her,  poor  soul !  She  is 
severely  tried. 

"  May  lyth. — On  Tuesday  at  twelve,  dear  Felix  left 
Town  for  Portsmouth.  Mr.  Yorke  had  written  to  tell 
him  that  the  Ganymede  was  to  sail  immediately  for 
Cadiz,  and  that  he  had  requested  Captain  Cathcart  to 
take  him. 

"  May  igth. — We  went  last  night  to  an  Assembly  at 
Mrs.  Chaplin's.  I  never  saw  Isabella  look  so  handsome. 
Princess  Amelia,  they  say  is  dying,  if  not  actually  dead. 
It  keeps  the  Town  in  a  great  state  of  anxiety  ;  not  so 
much,  poor  soul,  on  her  account  as  because  it  will  suspend 
all  balls,  assemblies,  etc.,  for  a  time. 

"  May  23rd. — Yesterday  Isabella  and  I  went  to  a 
Venetian  breakfast  at  Lady  Buckinghamshire's.  She 
lives  beyond  Grosvenor  Place,  just  on  the  King's  Road. 
She  has  a  very  pretty  house  and  garden,  and  everything 
was  well  arranged,  the  day  delightful,  everyone  in  good 
humour,  and  disposed  to  be  pleased.  We  stayed  till 
near  seven,  and  came  home  much  pleased. 

"  Isabella  looked  beautiful,  and  was  extremely  ad- 
mired. She  had  on  a  very  pretty  gypsy  hat,  with  yellow 
flowers,  which  became  her  much,  and  people  (the  Persian 


i8io]  AN  ATTEMPTED  MURDER  161 

Ambassador  among  the  number)  said  that  daylight 
became  her  vastly.  There  were  numbers  in  fancy  dresses, 
and  some  good  masks.  Lord  Courtney  was  dressed  as  a 
fine  lady  in  search  of  a  husband.  His  mask  was  so  like 
Lady  Shaftesbury,  and  his  dress  and  manner  so  like  her, 
that  I'm  sure  he  meant  to  caricature  her.  Miss  Dash  wood 
is  now  Marchioness  of  Ely.  She  was  married  yesterday 
at  St.  George's.  The  Duchess  of  Manchester  came  to  the 
breakfast  after  the  wedding.  Princess  Amelia  is  better, 
to  the  great  relief  of  the  ball  giving  and  ball  going 
ladies. 

"  May  30th. — Yesterday  I  visited  Lady  Spencer  and 
other  people  with  my  sister.  Nothing  was  talked  of  but 
a  shocking  attempt  made  at  three  in  the  morning  to 
murder  the  Duke  of  Cumberland.1  He  had  locked  him- 
self in,  so  that  the  assassin  was  secreted  in  the  closet 
adjoining.  He  was  awoke  by  a  dreadful  cut  across  his 
head  with  a  broad  sword.  His  light  was  extinguished,  he 
therefore  could  not  see  the  assassin.  He  endeavoured, 
of  course,  to  save  himself,  but  received  several  wounds 
before  he  reached  the  door.  When  he  got  out,  he 
screamed,  *  Murder  ! '  and  when  his  attendants  got  to  him, 
he  was  weltering  in  his  blood.  He  desired  them  to  call 
a  confidential  Italian  servant,  who  had  lived  with  him 
twelve  years,  and  him  they  found  expiring  with  his 
throat  cut,  and  a  razor  lying  beside  him.  His  slippers 
were  found  in  the  Duke's  closet,  and  the  track  of  his  feet 
to  be  seen  in  blood  by  his  bedside.  There  was  no  reason 
to  suspect  him  otherwise,  and  now  it  is  a  most  mysterious 
business.  They  say  the  Duke's  wounds  are  not  dangerous, 
if  fever  does  not  come  on.  I  could  not  get  this  out  of  my 
head  last  night,  and  felt  half  afraid  of  going  to  sleep  for 
fear  of  being  murdered.    Mr.  Quin,  (Lord  Adare's  2  son), 

1  Ernest  Augustus,  King  of  Hanover  and  Duke  of  Cumberland, 
the  fifth  son  of  George  III,  was  born  1771,  and  died  November  18th, 
1 85 1.  His  only  child,  George,  succeeded  him  as  Duke  of  Cumberland 
and  King  of  Hanover. 

2  Lord  Adare  was  in  1822  created  Earl  of  Dunraven  in  the  Peerage 
of  Ireland.  He  married  1777  Lady  Frances  Muriel  Fox-Strangways, 
daughter  of  the  1st  Earl  of  Ilchester. 

M 


162    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

is  to  be  married  to  Miss  Wyndham,  a  great  heiress.1  She 
is  not  handsome,  but  is  well  spoken  of. 

"  June  2nd. — I  went  yesterday  morning  to  the  Pan- 
theon to  hear  Lancaster  the  Quaker 2  lecture  upon 
schools.  There  were  two  hundred  boys  belonging  to  his 
school  there.    I  got  very  tired  of  it. 

"  The  Duke  of  Cumberland  seems  to  have  borne  a  bad 
character.  I  hear  the  soldiers  on  guard  say  they  wish 
he  had  been  cut  to  pieces  instead  of  wounded.  The  busi- 
ness is  a  most  mysterious  one,  and  endless  stories  are 
circulated. 

"  June  14th. — We  have  just  been  to  Colonel  Byde's 
to  see  the  Whip  Club  set  off.  There  were  not  more  than 
four  barouches,  and  hundreds  of  people  collected  to  see 
them.    One  fool,  they  say,  makes  many  ! 

"  June  16th. — On  Thursday  night  we  went  first  to  a 
very  dull  party  at  Lady  Olivia  Sparrow's,3  and  then  to 
a  grand  one  at  Devonshire  House.  Yesterday  we  went 
to  a  party  at  Mrs.  Montagu's  in  Portman  Square  and  got 
home  a  little  before  one. 

"  June  20th. — There  was  an  Assembly  last  night  at 
Mrs.  St.  John's  ;  not  very  gay,  the  Prince  was  there. 
He  spoke  but  a  word  en  passant  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert, 
who  looked  much  annoyed,  and  darted  out  of  the  room 
directly.  I  believe  they  are  on  very  bad  terms,  and  he 
is  entirely  devoted  to  Lady  Hertford.4    I  have  been  with 

1  Windham  Henry,  2nd  Earl  of  Dunraven,  born  1782,  married 
December  27th,  18 10,  Caroline,  daughter  and  sole  heiress  of  Thomas 
Wyndham  of  Dunraven  Castle,  Glamorganshire.  In  consequence  of 
this  match,  he  in  1 8 1 5  adopted  by  sign  manual  the  additional  name  of 
Wyndham  before  that  of  Quin. 

2  Joseph  Lancaster  (1778-18 38)  joined  the  Society  of  Friends, 
and  became  extremely  active  in  teaching  poor  children  to  read  long 
before  there  was  any  organised  system  of  education.  Some  of  his 
sayings  have  passed  into  maxims,  e.g.  "  A  place  for  everything  and 
everything  in  its  place."  His  portrait  by  Hazlitt  is  in  the  National 
Portrait  Gallery. 

3  The  eldest  daughter  of  Arthur,  1st  Earl  of  Gosford.  She  married 
1797  Brigadier-General  Robert  Sparrow  of  Brampton  Park,  Hunts.  He 
died'i8o5.*i?Lady  Olivia  survived  him  nearly  sixty  years,  dying  in  1863. 

4  Francis,  2nd  Marquess  of  Hertford,  married  secondly  1776 
Isabella,  eldest  daughter  cf  the  9th  Viscount  Irvine.     She  died  1836. 


A1»Y    OLIVIA   SPARROW 

''cm  a  painting  by  Buckner 


i8io]  MRS.  MEE'S  MINIATURES  163 

my  sister  to  see  Mrs.  Mee's1  miniature  paintings.  She 
is  doing  a  collection  of  English  beauties  for  the  Prince 
of  Wales,  and  engravings  are  to  be  done  of  them.  I  think 
there  are  several  who  don't  deserve  to  be  ranked  as 
beauties,  Lady  Castlereagh  2  among  them.  Lord  Percy  3 
came  in  while  we  were  there — a  chattering,  good- 
humoured,  civil  young  man,  Mr.  C.  is  at  present  at  the 
Duke  of  Bedford's,  sheep  shearing. 

"  June  23rd. — Thursday  was  expected  to  be  a  very 
riotous  day,  being  the  one  on  which  Parliament  was  to 
be  prorogued  and  Sir  Francis  Burdett  liberated.  In  con- 
sequence there  was  a  great  concourse  of  people  assembled 
in  Piccadilly,  and  on  Tower  Hill. 

"  A  triumphal  car  was  prepared  for  him,  but  he  went 
privately  from  the  Tower  in  a  boat,  and  on  to  Wimbledon, 
to  avoid  creating  confusion.  I  think  he  deserves  infinite 
credit  for  his  moderation  and  propriety." 

1  "  Mrs.  Mee,  whose  collection  of  miniatures  excited  much  attention, 
was  a  highly  educated  woman,  clever  as  a  musician,  a  poet,  and  a 
painter.  She  was  capable  of  very  creditable  work,  and  some  of  her 
miniatures  painted  in  the  style  of  Cosway  are  of  unusually  high  merit. 
At  the  very  zenith  of  her  popularity  she,  like  Angelica  Kauffmann, 
married  an  adventurer.  She  soon  left  him,  but,  nevertheless,  con- 
tinued to  support  him  for  many  years.  Several  of  her  miniatures 
are  in  the  Royal  Collection  at  Windsor.  She  commenced,  but  never 
finished,  a  work  of  engraved  beauties  of  the  time  of  George  III  [the 
one,  no  doubt,  to  which  Mrs.  Calvert  alludes].  In  1812  she  was  living 
at  64  Upper  Berkeley  Street,  W.  Mrs.  Mee  died  at  a  great  age  May 
28th,  185 1  "  (taken  from  Dr.  Williamson's  book  on  Miniatures). 

2  Charles  William,  Lord  Castlereagh,  afterwards  3rd  Marquess  of 
Londonderry,  married  1804  Catherine,  youngest  daughter  of  the  Earl 
of  Darnley. 

3  Lord  Percy  was  afterwards  3rd  Duke  of  Northumberland. 


CHAPTER    XII 


Vauxhall  Gardens — Sir  James  Stronge — Isabella's  engagement — 
Marriage  at  St.  George's,  Hanover  Square — Death  of 
Princess  Amelia — Hopeless  insanity  of  the  King — "  Old  Q." 
—  The  Prince  is  appointed  Regent  —  Miss  Pole  and  Lord 
Burghersh — Battle  of  Barrosa. 


NOT  the  least  delightful  thing  about  our 
ancestors  is  the  zest  with  which  they  seem 
to  have  enjoyed  simple  pleasures.  And 
probably,  of  their  many  happy  hunting 
grounds,  Vauxhall  Gardens  was  the  one  they  loved  the 
most. 

It  was  Jane,  the  widow  of  a  certain  Baron  Vaux,  who 
gave  her  name  to  the  gardens,  the  eleven  acres  on 
which  they  stood  having  been  originally  hers.  Everybody 
knows  Vauxhall  Bridge  Road,  and  it  is  rather  pleasant 
to  find  old  landmarks  preserved,  even  by  something  as 
prosaic  as  a  railway  station  and  its  vicinity.  As  a  place  of 
public  amusement,  Vauxhall  existed  for  quite  two  hundred 
years,  and  Mr.  Pepys  and  Horace  Walpole,  at  widely 
different  intervals,  have  taught  us  to  regard  it  as  an 
earthly  paradise  in  which  nightingales  and  other  birds 
might  be  heard  ;  and,  to  quote  Mr.  Pepys,  "  here  a 
fiddle  and  there  a  harp." 

Horace  Walpole  in  his  turn  tells  us  how  "  they  minced 
seven  chickens  into  a  china  dish,  which  Lady  Caroline 
(Petersham)   stewed  over  a   lamp   with   three   pats   of 

164 


SIR  JAMES    STRONGE,    BART 


i8io]  SIR  JAMES  STRONGE  165 

butter  and  a  flagon  of  water,  stirring,  rattling,  and 
laughing,  and  we  expecting  every  moment  to  have  the 
dish  fly  about  our  ears."  How  childish  this  seems,  but 
how  jovial ! 

We  are  sure  that  in  later  days  Thackeray  must  often 
have  been  at  Vauxhall,  for  does  he  not  describe  in  his  own 
inimitable  way,  "  the  delights  of  the  gardens,  the  hundred 
thousand  lamps  that  were  always  lighted,  the  fiddlers  in 
cocked  hats  .  .  .  the  dark  walks  so  favourable  to  the 
interviews  of  young  lovers  ?  " 

The  price  of  admission  varied  from  a  shilling  to  half  a 
sovereign  on  gala  nights,  but  then  one  could  not  expect 
to  hear  such  stars  as  Incledon,  Mrs.  Billington  and  Kitty 
Stephens  for  nothing,  not  to  mention  the  chance  of 
meeting  the  Prince  Regent  and  other  distinguished 
persons.  The  most  fairylike  refreshments  were  supplied 
at  famine  prices,  and  one  has  even  heard  of  a  waiter  who 
boasted  that  he  could  cover  the  whole  eleven  acres  of 
ground  on  which  the  gardens  stood  with  slices  from  one 
ham  !  It  must  have  been  a  matter  of  sentimental  regret 
to  many  old  and  middle-aged  folk,  to  whom  they  were 
full  of  pleasant  associations,  when  Vauxhall  was  closed 
in  1853,  and  five  years  later  sold  for  £20,000. 

This  was  quite  half  a  century  after  the  eventful  night 
when  Aunt  Diana  Knox  took  her  lovely  niece  Isabella 
there  on  a  certain  June  evening,  on  which  occasion,  as 
Mrs.  Calvert  solemnly  informs  us,  "  Sir  James  Stronge 
was  their  beau,  and  went  with  them."  This  is  the  first 
time  we  hear  of  the  young  Irish  baronet  who  was  to  play 
so  important  a  part  in  Isabella's  history.  We  can  fancy 
how  attentive  he  was  to  the  two  fair  ladies,  perhaps  even 
offering  an  arm  to  each,  as  our  countrymen  were  so 
fond  of  doing  until  they  were  laughed  out  of  it  by  jokes 


166    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

about  "  un  tine  a  deux  panzers  "  by  their  neighbours  over 
the  water. 

We  are  sure  that  Mrs.  Knox  herself — a  very  handsome 
and  attractive  woman — was  the  most  vigilant  of  chaper- 
ons, but  still  she  must  have  remembered  her  own  young 
days,  and  Sir  James's  admiration  for  Isabella  could  not 
have  escaped  her  notice.  Or  else  how  is  it  that  we  find 
him  proposing  to  her — again  at  Vauxhall — not  more  than 
three  weeks  later  ?  Her  behaviour  on  that  occasion  did 
honour  to  Mrs.  Devis's  up-bringing,  for  all  she  did  was 
to  give  a  favourable  answer,  subject  to  her  parents' 
approbation.  Sir  James,  overjoyed,  lost  no  time  in 
sending  his  stepfather,  Mr.  Holmes,1  down  to  Hunsdon 
on  an  embassy  of  which  Mrs.  Calvert  in  her  own  words 
shall  tell  us  the  result. 

"  July  12th. — Mr.  C.  has  given  no  positive  answer,  but 
Mr.  Holmes  is  gone  back  to  town.  It  has  flurried  me  so, 
I  scarce  know  what  I  am  doing.  His  fortune,  though  a 
good  one,  is  not  so  large  as  I  could  wish,  but  if  Isabella 
is  satisfied,  I  must  be  so.  Belonging  to  another  country 
is  the  principal  objection.  Mr.  Holmes  says  his  disposi- 
tion is  quite  angelic. 

"  Hunsdon,  July  16th. — We  went  to  Town  on  Friday 
and  spent  all  that  day  in  consultation  with  the  Knox's. 
They  gave  Sir  James  the  most  excellent  character,  and 
as  Isabella  seems  to  have  a  decided  preference  for  him, 
we  determined  at  length  to  give  our  consent.  His  fortune 
is  more  considerable  than  I  thought.  Mr.  C.  and  I  like 
him  extremely,  he  seems  a  most  amiable  young  man, 
and  I  really  think  they  will  be  a  very  happy  couple." 

We  feel  certain  that  Isabella  would  have  endorsed  this 
sentiment  at  the  end  of  her  fifty-two  years  of  matrimony. 

1  Sir  James  Stronge's  mother,  by  birth  Miss  Helen  Tew,  married 
secondly  William  Holmes,  Esq.,  late  Treasurer  of  the  Ordnance. 


i8io]  WEDDING  PRESENTS  167 

"  We  left  London  a  little  after  eight.  The  children's 
remarks,  astonishment,  and  at  first,  disbelief,  has  been 
very  ludicrous.  Sir  James  drives  down  four  beautiful 
horses,  which  Isabella  admires  very  much.  His  carriage 
is  built  like  a  stage  coach,  with  a  railing  round  the  top. 
He  is  very  near  sighted,  and  I  should  tremble  at  being 
drove  by  him. 

"July  2yd. — On  Monday  Sir  James  arrived  about  an 
hour  before  dinner.  We  like  him  every  day  better  and 
better,  and  he  is  now  quite  like  one  of  ourselves.  He 
seems  very  much  in  love  with  Isabella,  and  she  is  not 
behind-hand  in  liking  him.  He  makes  her  play  for  him 
every  evening  on  the  pianoforte,  and  sits  over  her, 
admiring  her.  We  have  the  pianoforte  in  the  ante-room, 
and  we  talk  in  the  drawing-room  with  the  door  open. 
The  lovers  are  at  this  moment  sitting  under  a  tree  before 
the  windows  reading,  '  The  Lady  of  the  Lake,'  and  I 
have  sat  down  to  write.  On  Tuesday  we  had  nobody 
here  but  Sir  James.  We  sauntered  about,  sat  out,  and 
sometimes  they  went  to  the  pianoforte. 

"  July  31st. — Isabella  has  had  splendid  presents  from 
all  the  Knox's.  Mr.  Knox  has  given  her  a  watch  and 
chain,  and  my  sister  a  beautiful  lace  gown,  immense 
veil  of  lace  and  lace  cap.  This  is  to  be  her  wedding 
attire,  and  my  mother  has  desired  me  to  lay  out  £100  in 
lace,  or  anything  else  she  likes  best,  for  her." 

A  month  later  Mrs.  Calvert  expresses  herself  "  com- 
pletely tired  of  love  making,  though  I  suppose  Sir  James 
is  less  trouble  than  any  other  young  man  would  be." 
Much  to  her  horror  Edmond  came  up  from  school  "  with 
a  face  all  black  and  blue,  having  had  a  battle  with  a 
boy." 

"  Mr.  C.  and  I  have  been  to  look  at  a  house  in  Gros- 
venor  Place,  which  I  think  it  not  at  all  unlikely  we  may 
take.  It  will  be  a  fine,  airy  situation  for  the  children, 
though  rather  out  of  the  way." 


168    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1810 

The  course  of  true  love  meanwhile  was  running  very 
smoothly,  settlements  were  being  drawn  up  with  all 
imaginable  speed,  and  we  have  a  list  of  the  future  Lady 
Stronge's  wedding  clothes,  the  word  trousseau  not  having 
been  as  yet  imported.  It  includes  many  muslin  dresses,  as 
well  as  silk  and  satin  spencers  and  a  brown  sarsnet  gown. 
A  "  sealskin  shawl  "  sounds  rather  a  weird  garment,  and 
it  is  difficult  to  imagine  "  a  yellow,  a  blue,  and  two  white 
caps  "  on  the  head  of  the  youthful  bride  of  seventeen. 
On  September  5th  the  wedding  took  place  at  St.  George's, 
Hanover  Square,  the  Rector  of  Hunsdon  being  the 
officiating  clergyman. 

"  Isabella  looked  very  pretty  in  her  superb  lace  dress 
and  was  very  composed  in  her  manner.  At  a  little  after 
two  they  set  off  for  Hunsdon  in  their  stage  coach  and 
four  ;  post  boys  and  servants  with  favors.  They  took 
Lavinia,  Nicolson  and  William  in  the  carriage.  Though 
I  was  tired  of  the  love-making,  I  miss  Sir  James  and 
Isabella  dreadfully.  I  feel  to  have  nothing  to  do,  and 
the  house  looks  very,  very  dreary." 

"  September  25th. — This  day  fortnight  I  had  a  very 
fine  little  girl.1  I  have  had  constant  charming  letters 
from  my  dearest  Isabella,  who  says  she  is  the  happiest 
of  creatures.  They  were  in  Dublin  when  I  heard  last, 
and  were  to  set  out  for  Fairview  the  next  day." 

Fairview,  now  called  Tynan  Abbey,  was  the  property 
in  Armagh  of  which  Sir  James  Stronge  was  the  owner. 

"October  ~L$th. — Princess  Amelia  is  not  expected  to  live. 

"  There  has  been  a  brilliant  action  in  Portugal.  Lord 
Wellington  has  beaten  Massena  ;  there  are  2000  French 
killed,  and  they  say  8000  wounded,  and  300  prisoners, 
forty  of  whom  are  officers.   The  52nd  took  most  of  the 

1  The  baby  was  called  Harriet  Diana  ;  she  was  the  youngest  of 
Mrs.  Calvert's  numerous  family. 


ISABELLA,    LADY    STRONGE 

From  a  bust  by  Bertolini 

By  kind  permission  of  Sir  James  Stronge^  Bart. 


i8io]  DEATH  OF  PRINCESS  AMELIA  169 

prisoners.  We  have  lost  500  men  in  killed  and  wounded, 
the  Portuguese  (who  by  the  by,  behaved  famously), 
about  as  many.  Major  Napier  is  severely  wounded,  and 
his  brother  in  the  52nd.  I  feel  sincerely  for  poor  Lady 
Sarah.  This  is  the  Major  Napier  whom  the  family  went 
into  mourning  for,  thinking  he  was  killed  at  the  Battle  of 
Corunna.  The  Tower  and  Park  guns  were  fired  last  night. 
An  account  of  another  battle  is  hourly  expected.  Princess 
Amelia  is  better. 

"  Isabella  is  going  to  have  a  little  farm  of  her  own, 
which  delights  her.  She  says,  *  I  am  as  happy  as  the  day 
is  long.  James  is  a  dear,  dear  creature.  I  would  not 
change  him  for  all  the  world.'  " 

On  November  8th  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  that  Princess 
Amelia  died  on  the  previous  Friday.  This  sad  event 
precipitated  the  insanity  of  the  poor  old  King,  for  she 
was  his  favourite  daughter. 

"December  21st,  1810. — Mr.  Perceval  sent  to  propose  to 
the  Prince  to  be  Regent  with  the  following  restrictions. 
He  was  not  to  change  the  Ministry  for  a  year,  not  to 
dissolve  Parliament,  and  not  to  create  Peers.  The  Prince 
has  rejected  it  with  disdain. 

"  Christmas  Day,  1810. — *  Old  Q.,'  in  other  words  the 
Duke  of  Queensberry,  is  dead.  He  was  in  his  85th  or  86th 
year,  the  most  profligate  man  with  regard  to  women  that 
ever  existed.  Some  say  he  was  charitable,  and  that 
covers  a  multitude  of  sins." 

The  last  Duke  of  Queensberry  was  buried  in  St.  James's 
Church,  Piccadilly,  under  the  Communion  Table.  He 
evidently  had  a  horror  of  dying,  for  we  are  told  that  he 
adopted  the  Chinese  plan  of  paying  a  doctor  to  keep  him 
alive,  and  when  very  infirm  and  old,  the  Pere  Elisee — 
formerly  physician  to  Louis  XV — was  supposed  to  be 
always  within  call.  He  was  allowed  a  large  sum  as  long 
as  the  Duke  lived,  but  nothing  more  after  his  death. 


170    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [i8n 

A  great  patron  of  the  turf  was  his  Grace  in  his  younger 
days,  and  in  1756,  as  Lord  March,  he  won  a  race,  riding 
himself  in  his  own  colours.  When  he  grew  old  he  sold 
his  house  at  Newmarket,  and  lived  at  what  is  now  138 
Piccadilly,  the  peculiar  porch  of  which  is  still  in  existence. 
It  was  built  to  suit  his  growing  infirmities.  Most  of  his 
days  were  spent  in  the  corner  of  the  bow-window,  from 
which  he  used  to  look  out  at  the  passers-by,  and  there 
was  never  a  pretty  woman  who  escaped  his  notice. 
Partly  owing  to  his  admiration  for  dancers  and  prima 
donnas,  the  Italian  Opera  was  munificently  patronised 
by  the  Duke.  Raikes  describes  him  as  "  a  little,  sharp- 
looking  man,  very  irritable,  and  in  the  habit  of  swearing 
like  ten  thousand  troopers." 

"  1811.  January  13th. — I  like  the  Prince's  answer  to 
the  Lords  and  Commons  very  much.  He  has  accepted 
the  Regency  in  a  very  dignified  and  proper  manner,  at 
the  same  time  stating  that  his  feelings  are  hurt  by  the 
restrictions.  I  think  it  shameful  their  having  imposed 
them." 

A  little  later  Mrs.  Calvert  writes. 

"  The  Ministers  have  carried  out  all  their  restrictions, 
and  the  Prince  is  to  be  invested  tomorrow.  George 
Knox  writes  word  '  Lady  Stronge  is  greatly  admired  in 
Dublin  for  her  beauty,  unaffected  manners,  and  innocent 
vivacity.'    This  is  a  delightful  account. 

"  Bonaparte  was  one  night  at  the  Play  in  Paris,  and  it 
happened  to  be  Julius  Caesar.  Talma,  the  famous  actor, 
performed  the  part  of  Brutus,  and  when  he  knelt  to  Caesar 
and  said  '  Give  us  back  our  liberties,'  the  acclamations 
all  over  the  house  were  so  great,  that  nothing  could  be 
heard  on  the  stage  for  many  minutes.  Bonaparte, 
meanwhile,  was  taking  snuff  in  his  most  violent  way, 
which  he  always  does  when  agitated.  The  next  day  he 
sent  orders  that  that  Play  was  not  to  be  acted  any  more. 


i8n]    MISS  POLE  AND  LORD  BURGHERSH        171 

"  March  yd. — Sir  David  Baird  and  his  bride  dined  at 
Lady  Cassilis  on  Wednesday.  She  is  about  forty,  a 
good  humoured  Scotch  woman,  with  a  large  fortune." 

Sir  David  married  1810  Miss  Preston  Campbell  of  Fern 
Tower  and  Locklane,  Perthshire.  He  died  without  issue 
in  1829,  when  the  Baronetcy  devolved  upon  his  nephew. 

"  March  14th. — The  Duke  of  Richmond  met  Isabella 
at  a  ball  and  asked  her  to  dance,  but  she  refused,  which 
I  am  not  sorry  for,  as  he  is  a  great  flirt,  and  she  is  so  young 
and  handsome.    They  are  very  civil  to  her  at  the  Castle. 

"  Miss  Pole  is  not  to  be  married  to  Lord  Burghersh. 
They  say  the  match  would  very  likely  have  taken  place 
but  for  Mrs.  Pole's  endeavours  to  bring  it  about.  After 
a  time,  she  asked  Lord  Burghersh  what  his  intentions 
were.  I  suppose  she  fully  expected  he  would  then  pro- 
pose. Instead  of  that,  his  Lordship  declared  he  had  no 
intentions,  so  I  suppose  they  don't  speak  now."  1 

Mrs.  Calvert,  usually  so  accurate,  was  mistaken  for 
once,  for  Lord  Burghersh,  eldest  son  of  the  10th  Earl  of 
Westmorland,  married  on  July  26th,  1811,  Priscilla 
Anne,  daughter  of  the  Rt.  Hon.  William  Pole,  afterwards 
3rd  Earl  of  Mornington.2  Lady  Burghersh's  charming 
letters,  when  abroad  with  her  husband,  are  too  well 
known  to  require  description. 

The  account  of  the  Battle  of  Barrosa,  in  which  her  son 
Felix  was  engaged,  filled  Mrs.  Calvert  with  agitation 
and  delight.    She  writes  on  March  25th  : 

1  This  was  evidently  mere  gossip.  Lord  Burghersh,  as  his  family- 
well  knew,  had  been  much  attached  to  Miss  Pole  before  he  went  out 
to  Spain  three  years  earlier,  but  she  was  then  considered  too  young  to 
marry. 

2  The  marriage  took  place  in  Mr.  Pole's  house  in  Savile  Row. 
Lady  Burghersh  afterwards  told  her  daughter  that  she  had  wished 
to  be  married  in  a  church,  but  was  told  that  this  was  quite  impossible, 
"  as  people  would  think  it  so  odd  and  unlike  other  people  !  " 


172    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [i8n 

"  I  thank  God  my  beloved  Felix  is  safe,  after  being 
in  a  most  bloody  battle.  The  time  that  elapsed  between 
the  first  hearing  of  it  and  seeing  the  return  of  the  killed 
and  wounded  was  agony.  Mr.  Holmes  had  flown  to  the 
Foreign  Office  to  see  the  return  before  it  was  published, 
and  came  to  me  with  the  thrice  blessed  intelligence  that 
the  dear  boy's  name  was  not  on  the  list. 

"  It  has  been  a  most  brilliant  business.  General 
Graham  had  but  5000  British  troops,  and  the  French 
8000,  commanded  by  Victor.  We  have  taken  I  don't 
know  how  many  officers  and  men,  besides  cannon  and 
one  eagle.  I  have  been  rendered  almost  crazy  with 
delight  by  a  note  from  Mr.  Brand  enclosing  a  letter  to  Mr. 
C.  from  General  Graham.  The  letter  from  the  dear 
General,  (for  I  will  call  him  dear,  though  I  never  saw 
him  in  my  life),  is  as  follows  : 

"  '  Cadiz. 
"  '  March   10th. 

"  '  My  dear  Sir, 

"  '  I  have  but  one  instant  to  tell  you  that  nothing 
could  exceed  your  son's  good  conduct  in  the  action  of  the 
5th  instant,  and  I  am  sure  the  Commander  in  Chief  will 
consider  it  a  good  opportunity  to  allow  him  to  obtain 
that  promotion  which  his  coolness  and  gallantry  entitle 
him  to. 

"  '  I  remain  yours  very  truly  and  obediently, 
"  '  Th.  Graham.' 

"  Oh  !  What  inexpressible  joy  to  a  parent  to  read  such 
an  account  of  a  beloved  child." 

Felix's  letter,  which  arrived  soon  after,  described  the 
action  as  being 

"  as  severe  a  one  as  ever  was  fought  by  British  troops. 
At  the  time  it  commenced,  we  had  been  marching  for 
20  hours,  we  were  advancing  in  our  fatigued  state  out  of  a 
wood,  and  up  a  hill  under  a  most  dreadful  fire  with  the 
French  nearly  double  our  numbers,  and  wholly  unsup- 
ported by  the  Spaniards.     I  remained  with  the  General 


i8n]  BATTLE  OF  BARROSA  173 

for  the  first  quarter  of  an  hour  after  the  action  commenced, 
when  somebody  observed  that  from  the  number  of  the 
Staff  collected,  we  were  drawing  the  enemy's  fire  upon 
him.  Most  of  us  then  branched  off  to  different  parts 
of  the  field.  I  followed  Colonel  Macdonald,  D.  A.  General, 
to  where  the  Guards  were  very  hotly  engaged.  .  .  . 
I  remained  there  till  the  enemy  was  driven  completely 
off  the  field,  when  I  was  witness  to  a  very  fine  charge 
made  by  50  of  the  German  cavalry  upon  a  body  of 
French  cuirassiers  four  deep.  We  both  escaped  without 
a  ball  touching  our  clothes,  though  my  horse  was  wounded 
twice  during  the  action.  Poor  Eyre  (Colonel  Eyre's  son), 
was  shot  through  the  head,  and  stripped  immediately 
by  the  rascally  Spanish  stragglers  who  left  their  regi- 
ments to  plunder.' 

"  On  Wednesday  I  was  made  extremely  happy  by  a 
visit  from  Lt.  Col.  Macdonald,  Deputy  Adjutant  General 
of  General  Graham's  forces.  I  had  never  seen  him  before, 
and  it  was  very  good  of  him  to  come.  He  came  to  give 
us  an  account  of  our  dear  Felix's  behaviour  in  the  engage- 
ment. He  was  near  him  all  the  time,  and  he  says  he 
never  saw  anything  like  his  bravery.  His  coolness  and 
courage  were  beyond  what  could  be  described,  and  he  says 
they  all  looked  on  him  with  surprise  from  his  youth,  and 
being  the  first  time  he  had  been  in  action.  Oh,  how  proud 
I  feel  of  him  !  Col.  Macdonald  told  me  that  when  he  was 
ill  of  cholera  after  he  went  to  Cadiz,  that  he  was  so  bad 
one  day  the  physicians  had  not  a  hope  of  his  life.  General 
Graham  was  so  affected,  he  shed  tears,  but  thanks  be  to 
the  Almighty,  the  dear  boy  was  spared  us  !  !  !  Con- 
gratulations from  all  our  friends  pour  in  upon  us.  Colonel 
M.  has  trumpetted  about  the  dear  boy's  praises  every- 
where." 


CHAPTER    XIII 


Hunsdon  House — The  Roman  bath — Once  a  nursery  for  the 
Royal  children — Baron  Hunsdon 's  death — Arrival  of  Lady 
Stronge — London  goes  mad  on  waltzing — Sudden  death  of 
Lord  Melville — Esther  Acklom  again — The  Prince  Regent 
gives  a  ball — The  Siege  of  Badajoz — Proposed  marriage  of 
the  Duke  of  Clarence. 


IT  was  a  great  event  in  Mrs.  Calvert's  life  when 
Hunsdon  House  was  finished  at  last.  "To-day," 
she  writes  on  April  nth,  "  we  dined  here  tete  a 
tete  in  our  new  dining-parlor.  God  grant  that  we 
may  enjoy  ourselves  and  the  society  of  those  we  love  for 
many  years,  and  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  our  blessings." 
Surely  so  good  a  woman  deserved  a  happy  home. 
Hunsdon  House,  as  it  has  existed  for  the  last  hundred 
years,  is  a  substantial,  well-built  Georgian  mansion, 
probably  much  more  comfortable  to  live  in  than  its 
predecessor,  which,  however,  it  is  impossible  not  to  re- 
gret because  of  its  deeply  interesting  historical  associa- 
tions. 

In  the  first  place,  it  seems  probable,  from  the  fact  of 
Ermin  Street  not  being  far  off,  that  Hunsdon  was  the 
site  of  a  Roman  villa.  Quite  in  late  years  a  Roman  bath 
was  discovered  in  it,  and  the  well  from  which  Hunsdon 
House  is  supplied  to-day  with  water  is  the  same  one 
which  was  made  by  the  Romans  to  supply  the  bath. 

For  nearly  two  hundred  years  after  the  reign  of 
Edward  I  the  manor  of  Hunsdon  was  owned  by  a  family 

174 


i8n]  A  ROYAL  NURSERY  175 

named  Engayne.  From  them  it  passed  to  a  certain 
Sir  William  Oldhalle,1  of  whom  Mr.  Cussans  says  that 
he  took  a  very  prominent  part  in  the  Wars  of  the  Roses. 
and  helped  to  build  both  the  house  and  the  church. 
The  estate  being  escheated  after  Bosworth,  it  became 
Royal  property,  and  in  1514  was  given  to  Thomas,  Earl 
of  Surrey  (afterwards  Duke  of  Norfolk),  as  a  reward  for 
his  services  on  Flodden  Field  by  his  son,  who  was  father 
of  the  poet  Earl  of  Surrey. 

When,  in  1524,  Henry  VIII  resumed  possession  of  the 
manor,  he  enlarged  the  house  and  created  it  a  palace 
Royal.  There  he  lived  for  some  time,  but  he  chiefly  used 
it  as  a  nursery  for  his  three  children,  Mary,  Elizabeth, 
and  Edward.  Lady  Bryan  was  governess  to  the  Princess 
Elizabeth,  and  one  of  her  letters  from  Hunsdon  and  also 
some  written  by  Prince  Edward  are  given  in  Strype's 
Memorial. 

Various  gifts  presented  to  Prince  Edward  on  New 
Year's  Day,  1539,  are  mentioned  in  an  article  by  Viscount 
Dillon,  f.s.a.,  that  appeared  in  the  Home  Counties  Maga- 
zine of  1899.  The  Lady  Elizabeth,  who  was  then  nearly 
five  years  old,  presents  a  "  shyrte  of  cam'yke  of  her  own 
workynge." 

When  he  came  to  the  throne,  Edward  VI  gave  Hunsdon 
to  Princess  Mary,  who  lived  there  during  his  reign.  Here 
it  was  that  the  news  of  his  death  was  announced  to  her. 
On  October  7th,  1537,  she  was  sponsor  to  the  child 
of  "  one  Welshe  beside  Hunsdon,"  baptised  in  Hunsdon 
Church. 

Queen  Mary's  reign  being  ended  by  her  death,  the 
estate  passed  to  Queen  Elizabeth,  who  granted  it  to  her 

1  Sir  William  Oldhall  was  M.P.  for  Hertfordshire,  and  was  elected 
.Speaker  in  1450. 


176    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [i8n 

cousin,  Sir  Henry,  son  of  William  Carey  and  Mary 
Boleyn,  sister  of  the  mother  of  Elizabeth.  She  created 
him  Baron  of  Hunsdon ;  he  craved  to  be  Earl  of  Wiltshire 
as  well  in  right  of  his  mother,  but  Elizabeth  refused,  and 
the  disappointment  was  so  great  that  he  fell  ill  in  conse- 
quence and  died.  It  seems  rather  pathetic  to  find  that 
before  his  death  the  Queen  thought  better  of  the  matter, 
the  patent  was  made  and  his  robes  made,  the  latter  being 
spread  on  his  bed  when  she  visited  him  in  order  to  confer 
the  dignity  of  Earl  upon  him.  But  he  declined  the 
honour,  saying  that  as  the  Queen  had  not  granted  it  to 
him  in  his  lifetime,  he  could  not  accept  it  now  that  he 
was  about  to  die.  He  was  buried  in  Westminster  Abbey, 
and  in  a  splendid  altar  tomb  in  the  church  lie  the  recum- 
bent figures  of  his  son,  the  2nd  Baron  of  Hunsdon,  and 
his  wife,  said  to  have  been  prepared  by  the  former  before 
his  death. 

For  about  a  hundred  years  longer  Hunsdon  remained 
in  the  Carey  family.  Lord  Willoughby  of  Parham,  who 
married  Anne  Carey,  sold  it  after  her  death  to  Matthew 
Bluck,  one  of  the  six  clerks  in  Chancery.  His  grandson 
Matthew  mortgaged  it  in  1737  to  Mr.  Nicolson  ;  and  he 
bequeathed  it  to  his  nephew  Mr.  Nicolson  Calvert,  m.p., 
who  already  owned  a  considerable  amount  of  property 
in  Hertfordshire.  After  remaining  for  many  years  in  the 
Calvert  family,  it  passed  into  other  hands,  Mr.  Charring- 
ton  being  the  present  owner. 

The  church  was  once  rich  in  stained  glass,  placed  there 
in  1440-50  by  Sir  William  Oldhalle,  then  owner  of  Huns- 
don House.  In  the  upper  lights  of  the  east  window  are 
depicted  the  Annunciation  and  the  Adoration  of  Our 
Lord  in  Glory.  The  white  rose  of  York  and  the  fetter 
locks  may  be  seen  in  the  south  chancel  windows.    Sad  to 


i8n]  DEATH  OF  LORD  MELVILLE  177 

say,  the  original  font  was  restored  in  185 1  in  such  a  way 
as  to  make  it  appear  quite  new.  On  two  occasions  Queen 
Elizabeth  officiated  there  as  sponsor.1 

Lady  Stronge  was  her  mother's  first  visitor. 

"  How  delighted  I  was  to  see  her  !  She  looks  beauti- 
ful, and  is  enchanted  to  see  us.  I  am  very  careful  of  her 
as  she  is  between  two  and  three  months  with  child." 

"  May  12th. — Last  Saturday  we  got  the  account  of  poor 
Mrs.  George  Knox's  death  at  Shrewsbury." 

Meeting  her  husband  shortly  afterwards,  Mrs.  Calvert 
says  : 

"  I  did  not  think  him  so  much  affected  as  I  expected 
him  to  be,  but  he  has  great  fortitude  and  a  high  sense 
of  religion." 

"  All  the  ladies  in  London  are  gone  mad  over  waltz- 
ing ;  Lady  Cowper,  Lady  Boringdon,2  and  in  short  too 
many  to  enumerate.  I  think  it  will  end  by  their  all 
losing  their  characters,  it  introduces  so  much  freedom  with 
the  men.  I  hear  some  of  the  husbands  are  beginning  not 
to  like  it.  Some  one  the  other  day  asked  the  Prince  of 
Wales  at  the  Antient  Music  whether  he  did  not  think 
some  girl  pretty.  '  Girl !  '  answered  he,  '  Girls  are  not 
to  my  taste.  I  don't  like  lamb  ;  but  mutton  dressed  like 
lamb  !  ' 

"  Lord  Melville  3  was  found  dead  in  his  bed  a  few 
days  ago  at  Edinburgh  where  he  had  gone  to  attend  the 
funeral  of  a  particular  friend. 

14  Thomas  Knox  came  to  consult  me  about  marrying 
Esther  Acklom.    I  did  not  discourage  him,  only  begged 

1  Most  of  the  above  account  is  taken  from  an  article  on  Hunsdon 
House  in  The  Architect  and  Reporter  of  August  3rd,  1906. 

2  Frances,  daughter  of  Thomas  Talbot,  married  as  his  second  wife 
1809  John,  Lord  Boringdon,  afterwards  1st  Earl  of  Morley. 

3  Viscount  Melville,  the  youngest  son  of  Robert  Dundas  of  Arniston, 
was  born  1742,  and  elevated  to  the  Peerage  1802.  He  married  secondly 
1793  Jane,  daughter  of  the  2nd  Earl  of  Hopetoun. 


178    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [i8u 

him  to  wait  till  he  had  his  father's  sanction.  I  really 
believe  her  to  be  a  very  good  girl,  only  with  some  faults 
in  manner. 

"  June  23rd.  Hunsdon. — We  invited  the  Corporation 
to  dinner,  but  only  four  came,  Archer  the  butcher,  (who 
is  Mayor),  Gilbertson,  the  haberdasher,  Rook  the  at- 
torney, and  Colbeck,  the  apothecary.  We  gave  them  a 
very  handsome  dinner,  and  they  seemed  well  pleased. 

"  Thomas  informed  me  he  had  proposed  the  night 
before  to  Esther  at  Lady  Jersey's  concert,  and  been 
accepted.  He  has  written  to  his  father  (which  ought  to 
have  been  done  in  the  first  instance),  and  I  long  till 
his  answer  comes.  I  walked  on  Wednesday  morning 
to  Manchester  Square  with  Thomas  to  visit  them.  Poor 
Esther  was  a  good  deal  agitated  at  seeing  me,  but,  how- 
ever, she  soon  got  over  it.  I  chaperoned  her  at  night 
to  the  Prince  Regent's  ball,  which  was  magnificent  beyond 
description.  The  house  is  beautiful,  and  everybody  as 
fine  as  hands  could  make  them,  the  Prince  gracious  to 
everyone.  He  was  dressed  very  fine  in  a  field  marshall's 
uniform,  and  he  had  a  quantity  of  fine  diamonds  in  his 
hat.  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  York  were  there,  Princess 
Sophia  of  Gloucester,  the  Dukes  of  Clarence,  Cumberland, 
Cambridge  and  Kent,  Sussex,  and  Gloucester,  and  all 
the  French  Royal  Family.  The  King  of  France  is  very 
fat,  the  Duchess  D'Angouleme  1  a  pleasing,  modest  look- 
ing young  woman.  There  was  room  for  everyone  at  sup- 
per. The  Conservatory  was  allotted  for  the  Prince  and  his 
party,  which  consisted  of  the  royal  families  of  both 
countries,  and  duchesses,  marquises,  and  marchionesses, 
and  earls  and  countesses,  the  latter  only  by  invitation  as 
far  as  the  table  would  hold.  I  went  in  to  look  at  them  at 
supper.  There  was  a  stream  of  water  from  one  end  of  the 
table  to  the  other,  and  fish  swimming  in  it,  which  was  the 
curiosity  of  the  night.  We  got  home  between  five  and 
six,  a  good  deal  tired,  as  I  had  been  on  foot  the  greatest 
part  of  the  night,  and  it  was  very  hot. 

1  Daughter  of  Louis  XVI  and  Marie  Antoinette. 


THOMAS    KNOX,    2ND    EARL   OF    RANFURLY 


i8n]  THE  SIEGE  OF  BAD  A  JOS  179 

"  June  30th. — Mr.  Knox  and  my  sister  have  sent  their 
full  and  free  consent  to  Thomas  marrying  Esther. 

"  Felix  writes  that  there  are  hourly  expectations  of 
hearing  another  engagement  of  Lord  Wellington's,  and 
it  is  expected  to  be  a  most  bloody  one.  Mr.  Acklom  and 
Mr.  Knox  don't  agree  upon  settlements.  I  don't  know 
how  it  will  end,  but  anyhow  Thomas  and  Esther  are  deter- 
mined to  marry.  I  think  Mr.  Acklom  looks  as  if  he  would 
not  live  long.  He  still  holds  for  his  demands,  which  are 
for  a  much  larger  present  income  than  Mr.  K.  will  give. 
I  don't  know  how  it  will  end,  but  I  should  not  be  sorry 
if  it  was  to  break  off,  as  I  am  by  no  means  clear  in  my 
opinion  of  her.  Sometimes  I  think  very  well,  at  others 
not  so  well.  Time,  however,  will  shew,  and  I  trust  in 
God,  for  dear  Thomas's  sake  my  first  opinion  is  correct,  ij 

"  To-day  there  is  an  account  that  Lord  Wellington 
has  retreated,  and  raised  the  siege  of  Badajos.  Sir  James 
made  me  very  happy  to-day  by  telling  me  he  won't  take 
my  dearest  Isabella  to  Ireland  this  year.  She  is  to  remain 
with  us,  and  lie  in  in  London.  He  must  go  to  Ireland  for 
a  short  time.  I  am  enchanted  at  the  prospect  of  having 
them  for  so  long." 

Early  in  July  the  King  was  so  ill  that  everybody  in 
London  was  buying  mourning,  but  this  seems  to  have 
been  somewhat  premature.  The  accounts  of  His  Majesty 
were,  however,  as  bad  as  they  could  be, 

"  really  quite  melancholy  to  read,  he  suffers  so  much. 
His  life  seems  again  in  danger,  and  the  malady  in  his 
brain  is  pronounced  incurable." 

By  the  end  of  September  nothing  was  settled  about 
Thomas  Knox's  engagement. 

"  Mr.  Acklom  had  been  very  troublesome  about  settle- 
ments, and  they  were  all  at  daggers  drawn.  I  don't  think 
that  Thomas  is  at  all  in  love,  and  all  the  family  dislike  the 
match  so  much  that  I  suspect  he  would  not  be  sorry  if  it 


i8o    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [i8u 

were  off.    But  he  reckons  himself  in  honor  bound,  and  I 
trust  all  will  turn  out  better  than  now  seems  likely." 

"  November  3rd. — The  Duke  of  Clarence  and  his 
daughter,  Miss  FitzClarence,  dined  at  Mr.  Knox's  on 
Wednesday.  The  Duke  has  proposed  for  Miss  Long,1 
the  great  heiress,  and  has  promised  that  the  Regent  will 
get  the  Act  of  Parliament  repealed  which  prevents  the 
Royal  Family  marrying  subjects.  She  has  refused  him, 
but  still  encourages  him,  and  some  think  it  will  be  a 
match." 

1  Katherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Sir  James  Tylney  Long.  She  was 
much  courted,  and  Lady  Granville  wrote  of  her  "  refusing  right  and 
left."  She  married  in  1812  Hon.  William  Wellesley  Pole,  who  after- 
wards became  Lord  Mornington,  and  died  September  12th,  1825, 
after  a  very  unhappy  married  life. 


CHAPTER    XIV 


Love  affairs  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence — Birth  of  James  Stronge — 
Miss  Acklom's  engagement  broken  off — Blind  Man's  Buff  at 
Woburn  Abbey — Felix  Calvert  arrives — Ciudad  Rodrigo  is 
taken — Murder  of  Mr.  Perceval — Lady  Georgiana  Cecil  and 
the  Berkeley  peerage — Dissolution  of  Parliament  expected 
— Lord  Cranborne  defeated — Country  visits — The  siege  of 
Burgos — John  Knox  is  wounded — Death  of  Mr.  Acklom. 


"  November  12th,  181 1. 

THE  Duke  of  Clarence  and  his  daughter  have 
been  paying  Lady  Darnley  a  visit.  He  told 
her  that  he  had  proposed  for  Miss  Long  and 
had  been  refused,  but  he  did  not  despair,  for 
he  felt  sure  that  the  tenth  time  he  would  be 
accepted.  Lady  Darnley  says  that  Miss  Long  is  a  very 
high  young  lady.  '  Set  her  up/  say  I  !  The  Duke  is 
going  to  part  with  Mrs.  Jordan.  I  have  heard  again 
that  the  Regent  is  going  to  build  a  palace  near  Portland 
Place  which  is  to  cost  some  millions. 

"  I  hope  the  Acklom  affair  is  quite  at  an  end  for  I 
don't  think  Esther  was  worthy  of  the  sacrifices  that 
Thomas  was  ready  to  make  for  her. 

"  Last  Saturday,  my  beloved  Isabella  was  not  well 
and  I  sat  up  with  her,  she  was  very  ill  all  Sunday  and 
Doctor  Knighton  ordered  her  to  be  bled,  and  on  Monday 
morning  she  was  (the  Lord  be  praised)  brought  to  bed  of 
a  very  fine  boy.  She  had  a  most  dreadful  time,  which 
she  bore  like  an  angel.  She  and  my  dear  little  grandson 
are  going  on  as  well  as  possible.  Lady  Stronge,  my 
sister,  and  I  were  with  her  all  the  time. 
"  Miss  Long  has  accepted  Mr.  Wellesley  Pole,  so  the 

181 


182    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1811 

Duke  of  Clarence  wears  the  willow.  Nobody  rejoices  at 
Mr.  Pole's  success.  He  is  an  ill  conducted,  and  I  believe 
not  a  very  wise  young  man.    She  has  an  odd  taste." 

The  above  story  is  probably  not  very  well  known.  It 
would  be  interesting  to  have  more  particulars  about  the 
young  lady  who  ten  times  refused  the  chance  of  becoming 
Queen  of  England. 

"  December  6th. — The  match  is  at  last  completely  off. 
Thomas  has  returned  Miss  Acklom's  picture  and  letters, 
and  she  has  done  the  same  with  his.  Never  was  there 
anything  equal  to  the  conduct  of  the  Acklom  crew,  Miss 
at  the  head. 

"  December  gth. — General  Graham  writes  that  Felix 
is  just  setting  out  for  England  but  he  hopes  that  he  will 
return  by  the  opening  of  the  Campaign.  He  adds,  '  He  is 
so  keen  a  soldier,  that  I  am  sure  he  will  be  as  anxious  to 
return  to  me  as  I  shall  be  to  have  him.  I  am  perfectly 
satisfied  with  his  conduct,  in  every  particular.' 

"  Lord  Ilchester  *  is  going  to  marry  Miss  Murray, 
daughter  of  Lady  George  Murray,  and  Miss  Montagu, 
daughter  of  Mrs.  Montagu  of  Portman  Square  2  is  engaged 
to  Mr.  Goulburn  of  the  War  Office. 

"  The  Saldhana  frigate  is  lost  off  Lough  S willy.  Captain 
Pakenham,  brother  of  Lord  Longford,  commanded  her. 
He  is  a  charming  young  man,  he  and  every  soul  on  board 
perished." 

Colonel  Macdonald  paid  the  Calverts  a  visit  at  Hunsdon 
that  winter. 

"  He  came  from  Woburn  Abbey  and  was  very  full  of  it. 
The  Duchess  of  Bedford,  he  says,  is  the  life  of  the  party. 
She  made  them  all  play  at  Blind  Man's  Buff  every 
night,  and  all  sorts  of  romping  games." 

1  Henry  Stephen,  3rd  Earl  of  Ilchester,  born  1787,  married  18 12 
Caroline  Leonora,  daughter  of  the  late  Right  Rev.  Lord  George  Murray. 
She  died  18 19. 

2  Montagu  House  is  now  owned  by  Lord  Portman. 


i8i2]  RETURN  OF  FELIX  183 

This  lively  young  Duchess  was  Georgiana,  the  fifth 
daughter  of  Alexander,  4th  Duke  of  Gordon,  married  in 
1803.    She  died  at  Nice  1853. 

"December  18th. — Isabella  and  her  child  are  delightfully. 
He  was  half  baptized  on  Monday  by  the  Bishop  of  Derry  * 
and  called  James  Mathew." 

On  Christmas  Eve  Felix  Calvert  arrived  at  Hunsdon. 

"  Oh  !  how  enchanted  I  was  to  see  him.  It  was  almost 
too  much  for  me.  He  has  got  an  enormous  pair  of  whis- 
kers which  shadow  his  whole  face.  Everybody  abuses 
them  and  he  means  to  cut  them  off.  Anyhow  he  looks 
very  handsome. 

"  The  great  and  little  bells  rang  for  his  arrival  last 
night,  which  annoyed  him  very  much.  The  whole  house 
was  in  joy  at  seeing  him. 

"  February  gth,  1812. — Ciudad  Rodrigo  was  taken  by 
Lord  Wellington,  on  the  19th  of  January.  We  lost  two 
hundred,  killed  and  wounded.  I  think  Felix  is  on  the 
fidgets  to  go  out  again." 

Six  weeks  later  the  young  soldier  was  on  his  way  to 
Portsmouth. 

"He  goes  with  very  good  heart  and  something  whispers 
to  me  that  I  shall  see  him  again  before  long.  The 
Duchess  of  Gordon  died  on  Saturday,  all  her  family  with 
her  till  the  last." 

"  April  26th. — We  went  to  visit  Mrs.  Fitzherbert, 
who  was  quite  affectionate  and  glad  to  see  us.  Miss 
Seymour  is  grown  very  tall,  but  I  don't  think  promises  to 
be  pretty." 

This  was  at  Brighton,  where  Lady  Stronge  was  stay- 
ing with  her  mother  and  sister.  The  ladies'  favourite 
amusement  was  donkey  -  riding,   but  this  came  to  an 

1  The  Right  Rev.  William  Knox,  d.d.,  Bishop  of  Derry  1803. 
He  was  brother  of  Thomas,  1st  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 


i84    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [181a 

untimely  end,  when  Isabella's  donkey  chose  to  lie  down 
with  her  and  threw  her  among  a  heap  of  stones. 

"  She  was  not  in  the  least  hurt,  but  we  were  all 
frightened,  and  it  has  given  us  a  great  distaste  of  the 
donkey  race." 

More  tragic  by  far  is  the  next  event  related  by  Mrs. 
Calvert. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  May  12th. — A  most  horrible 
event  happened  yesterday  in  the  lobby  of  the  House  of 
Commons.  At  five  o'clock  Mr.  Perceval1  was  assassinated 
by  a  man  of  the  name  of  Bellingham,  who  shot  him 
through  the  heart. 

"  To  describe  the  horror  and  confusion  this  occasioned 
is  impossible.  The  man  was  secured.  Indeed,  he  neither 
attempted  to  deny  it  or  escape.  Mr.  P.  exclaimed,  '  I 
am  murdered,'  and  expired  in  Mr.  Smith's  arms.  The 
man  underwent  an  examination,  was  sent  to  Newgate  in 
a  carriage,  but  not  until  guards  were  procured  for  fear 
of  a  scene  when  the  people  huzza'd,  and  shewed  pleasure 
instead  of  horror  at  the  dreadful  catastrophe.  Nobody 
knows  at  present  whether  it  was  the  sole  act  of  this  man, 
or  whether  it  is  a  plot.  At  all  events,  independent  of 
the  horrible  thing  it  is,  it  is  very  alarming  the  guards 
were  all  out  last  night  for  fear  of  any  tumult.  Indeed, 
too  many  precautions  cannot  be  taken.  We  went  to 
Lady  Stafford's,  and  of  course,  nothing  was  thought  of 
or  talked  of  but  Mr.  Perceval,  and  it  threw  a  gloom  on 
every  countenance.  I  think  the  Regent  will  be  a  good 
deal  frightened,  and  he  is  a  nervous  man.  It  is  said  the 
populace  said  last  night,  '  Perceval  is  down,  and  the 
Regent  must  be  down  next.' 

"  May  15th. — The  Stronges  dined  here  Tuesday. 
Nothing  is  talked  of  but  Mr.  Perceval.     It  is  terrible  to 

1  The  Right  Hon.  Spencer  Perceval,  second  son  of  the  ist  Earl  of 
Egmont,  born  1762,  a  member  of  the  English  Bar.  He  afterwards 
became  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  and  succeeded  the  Duke  of 
Portland  as  Premier  1809. 


i8i2]  EXECUTION  OF  BELLINGHAM  185 

find  how  the  common  people  in  the  streets  talk  on  the 
subject,  and  accounts  to-day  from  the  manufacturing 
towns,  that  they  rung  the  bells,  had  bonfires,  and  showed 
the  most  savage  joy,  when  the  account  of  his  death 
arrived.  However,  the  military  soon  dispersed  the  mob. 
This  town  is  quiet,  but  I  dare  say  would  not  be  long  so 
were  there  not  a  strong  military  force.  There  were 
printed  placards  put  on  the  House  of  Commons  yesterday 
stating  that  Mr.  Perceval's  ribs  were  only  fit  to  broil  the 
Regent's  heart  on.    How  horrible  ! 

"  A  letter  from  my  beloved  Felix  from  Castello  Branco, 
the  29th  having  retraced  their  steps  there.  They  were 
going  into  Cantonments  I  believe  for  ten  days.  Poor 
fellow,  the  muleteer  had  carried  off  his  two  mules,  which 
he  had  given  £80  for — a  sad  blow  upon  his  finances. 

"  The  House  of  Commons  are  busy  settling  a  provision 
for  Mr.  Perceval's  family.  A  proper  one  was  voted 
unanimously,  but  now,  very  foolishly,  they  want  to 
increase  it,  and  that  has  produced  squabbling.  I  have, 
however,  just  heard  that  it  is  increased.  They  have 
voted  Mrs.  Perceval x  £2000  per  annum  for  life,  £50,000 
for  the  children,  £1000  a  year  for  the  eldest  son  until  he 
is  of  age,  and  then  £2000  a  year  for  life.  Bellingham  is 
to  be  tried  to-day — no  fresh  Ministry  as  yet  arranged. 
I  believe  the  Regent  finds  it  difficult  to  do.  He  is  de- 
tested, and  universally  abused.  His  infamous  connec- 
tion with  Lady  Hertford  is  the  subject  of  universal 
reprehension.  By  the  by,  she  was  to  have  had  an 
assembly  to-night,  but  has  put  it  off,  I  suppose  because 
of  this  business. 

"  May  18th. — Mr.  Perceval  was  buried  Saturday. 
Bellingham  was  to  be  hung  to-day.  I  have  heard  no 
particulars  yet,  but  every  precaution  is  taken  to  keep 
the  Town  quiet. 

"  May  25th. — There  was  not  the  least  disturbance  in 
consequence  of  Bellingham  being  hanged.  He  per- 
sisted to  the  last,  that  he  was  perfectly  justified  in  what 

1  She  was  Jane,  daughter  of  Sir  Thomas  Spencer  Wilson,  Bart. 


186    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [i8« 

he  had  done,  and  although  a  fortnight  has  elapsed  since 
Mr.  P.  was  shot,  there  was  no  Ministry  arranged.  Lord 
Liverpool  x  was  Premier  for  one  day  and  Mr.  Vansittart  2 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  but  they  resigned  in  con- 
sequence of  an  address  from  Parliament ;  moved  by  Mr. 
Stuart  Wortley,  and  carried  by  a  majority  of  four  to  the 
Regent  to  appoint  a  more  efficient  Ministry.  The  Prince 
has  such  a  dislike  to  the  Grenville  Squad,  that  he  is 
doing  all  he  can  to  do  without  them,  but  it  is  much  thought 
he  will  not  be  able  to  effect  that.  In  the  meantime 
everything  is  at  sixes  and  sevens,  and  we  have  no 
Government — great  apprehensions  of  scarcity  and  dis- 
turbances all  over  the  country.  What  a  fine  prospect ! 
The  Prince  is  horribly  unpopular.  He  has  done  a  very 
foolish  thing,  offering  a  reward  in  the  Gazette  of  £1000 
for  the  discovery  of  the  writers  of  two  vulgar  anonymous 
letters,  threatening  his  life.  They  say  the  letter  was  a 
quiz  from  some  gentleman  at  White's.  At  all  events,  the 
Prince  acted  very  foolishly.  I  hear  Mr.  Ryder  went 
down  on  his  knees  to  him  not  to  do  it. 

"  May  30th. — We  went  to  the  play  Tuesday  night.  I 
had  Mr.  Ladbroke's  private  box.  It  was  '  Macbeth,' 
and  '  The  Spoilt  Child,'  the  last  a  very  stupid  thing, 
but  Kemble  and  Mrs.  Siddons  performed  admirably  in 
Macbeth. 

"  June  4th. — No  Ministry  is  arranged.  I  hear  the 
Prince  and  all  parties  blamed  just  as  people's  politics 
incline  them.  God  knows  how  it  will  end  !  They  are  all 
squabbling  among  each  other,  and  we  hear  a  great  deal 
of  discontent  among  the  lower  sort  of  people. 

"  It  is  said  that  Lady  Georgiana  Cecil 3  is  to  be  married 

1  Sir  Robert  Bankes  Jenkinson,  2nd  Earl  of  Liverpool,  K.G.,  born 
1770.     He  was  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  from  18 12  to  181 7. 

2  Right  Hon.  Nicholas  Vansittart,  f.r.s.,  born  1776.  He  was 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  from  181 2  to  the  beginning  of  1823, 
when  he  was  created  Lord  Bexley.  He  married  1806  Hon.  Caroline 
Isabella  Eden,  daughter  of  William,  1st  Lord  Auckland.    He  d.s.p.  1851. 

3  Lady  Georgiana  Cecil,  married  February,  18 16,  the  Hon.  Henry 
Wellesley,  who  was  brother  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  and  after- 
wards created  1st  Lord  Cowley.     Lady  Cowley  died  i860. 


i8«]      THE  BERKELEY  PEERAGE      187 

to  Colonel  Berkeley — not  a  good  character — his  fortune, 
however,  is  very  large.  For  a  long  while  he  was  called 
Lord  Dursley,  but  on  his  father's  death  it  was  proved 
that  his  mother  was  not  married  to  him  till  after  the 
death  of  the  second  son." 

The  singular  story  of  Lord  Berkeley's  marriage  must 
have  made  a  good  deal  of  sensation  at  the  time.  Frederick, 
5th  Earl,  married  1796  Miss  Mary  Cole,  and  on  his  death 
in  August,  1810,  was  succeeded  by  his  fifth  son,  who, 
however,  did  not  assume  the  title. 

There  was  said  to  have  been  a  previous  marriage  to 
the  same  lady  in  1785,  but  this  was  not  allowed  by  the 
House  of  Lords  to  be  proved  satisfactorily,  and  Viscount 
Dursley,  the  eldest  son,  was  therefore  compelled  to  waive 
all  claim  to  the  title.  He  was  born  in  1786,  created  in 
1 83 1  Baron  Segrave,  and  in  1841  Earl  Fitzhardinge.  He 
died  unmarried  in  1857. 

"  July  1st. — On  Monday,  we  went  to  a  breakfast  at 
Lady  Anne  Barnard's  in  Berkeley  Square.  It  was  just 
like  an  assembly,  only  of  a  morning,  and  that  there  was 
some  waltzing,  which  I  never  saw  before,  and  which  is  a 
very  stupid  thing." 

A  dissolution  of  Parliament  being  expected,  Lord 
Cranborne  announced  his  intention  of  offering  himself 
as  a  candidate  at  the  next  election.  Mrs.  Calvert  was 
staying  at  Hatfield  at  the  time  this  was  announced. 

"  Mr.  C.  has  refused  Lord  Cranbourne  his  interest,  and 
I  dare  say  we  are  in  no  great  favour.  However,  there 
was  no  appearance  of  it.  Lady  Salisbury  is  an  excellent 
actress  !  " 

Owing  to  some  trouble  with  regard  to  his  eyes,  Sir 
Thomas  Graham  was  obliged  to  come  home  about  this 
time,   and  brought   his   aide-de-camp,   Felix  Calvert, 


188    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1812 

"  who  is  in  perfect  health,  but  so  tanned  that  he  looks 
like  a  Spaniard.  There  seems  no  probability  of  their 
leaving  England  soon,  which  is  great  joy." 

"  August  5th. — There  is  a  report  of  a  great  victory 
gained  by  Lord  Wellington  over  Marmont.1  God  grant 
it  may  yet  be  confirmed  !  The  Gazette  is  not  yet  pub- 
lished, so  we  are  very  anxious  about  poor  John  Knox. 

"  August  19th. — Miss  Acklom  is  certainly  to  be  married 
to  Mr.  J.  Madocks,  a  very  amiable  young  man  with  about 
£4000  a  year.  I  don't  envy  him  his  bargain,  and  I  must 
say  I  think  Thomas  has  had  a  great  escape. 

"  We  drove  yesterday  to  St.  Leonard's,  (Near  Windsor) 
to  visit  Lord  and  Lady  Harcourt.2  We  arrived  about 
three,  and  they  had  done  dinner,  but  they  made  us  go 
in,  and  they  had  their  coffee  while  we  stayed.  St.  Leo- 
nard's is  a  beautiful  little  place ;  the  view  from  the  back 
of  the  house  the  most  superb  I  ever  saw,  all  over  Windsor 
etc.  Lord  Harcourt  is  a  very  gentlemanlike,  pleasing  old 
man,  Lady  H.  a  lively,  agreeable,  eccentric  woman." 

Mrs.  Calvert  certainly  did  not  enjoy  country  visits. 
From  Fulmer,  where  Mr.  Richard  Calvert  lives,  she  writes  : 

"  I  have  stole  up  to  write,  for  it  rains  hard,  and  I  can't 
get  out.  Thank  my  stars,  we  leave  this  tomorrow ;  not 
but  what  they  are  the  best  kind  of  people  imaginable  and 
very  kind  and  attentive  to  me,  but  we  have  no  ideas,  no 
acquaintance  in  common,  and  live  quite  in  a  different 
style.    I  am  tired  to  death  !  " 

She  was  not  much  happier  at  Cobham. 

"  Lord  and  Lady  Darnley  are  very  religious,  and  bring 
up  their  children  with  excellent  principles,  but  I  dislike 
Lord  D.  extremely.  I  believe  he  is  a  very  good  man, 
but  he  is  so  proud,  and  thinks  himself  so  superior  to 
everyone  that,  though  civil,  it  breaks  out  in  every  word, 
and  I  think  is  disgusting.     Lady  D.  is  very  civil  and 

1  The  Battle  of  Salamanca,  July  22nd,   18 12. 

2  Lord  Harcourt  succeeded  his  father  1809. 


i8i2]  LORD  CRANBOURNE  DEFEATED        189 

attentive,  but  somehow  I  don't  feel  comfortable  there, 
and  was  very  glad  when  I  turned  my  back  on  the  place.' ' 

The  word  boredom  was  probably  not  invented  a 
hundred  years  ago,  but  evidently  then  as  now  it  was 
the  bete  noire  of  the  leisured  classes. 

Historical  and  very  domestic  news  is  told  in  the  next 
entry  in  the  Journal. 

"  September  6th. — Lord  Wellington  has  got  possession 
of  Madrid.  He  has  got  great  stores,  clothing,  etc.,  and 
above  all,  2000  prisoners.  I  had  a  letter  from  Isabella 
to-day,  her  baby  has  cut  four  teeth. 

"  September  2jth. — Parliament  was  dissolved  on  Tues- 
day, and  at  the  Mayor's  feast  that  day  Lord  Cranbourne  * 
announced  that  he  meant  to  stand  for  the  Borough  of 
Hertford,  which  Mr.  Calvert  had  represented  for  many 
years.  This,  of  course,  was  a  most  unexpected  and 
vexatious  thing,  but  I  trust  Mr.  C.  is  safe.  He  has  been 
canvassing  ever  since,  and  writes  me  word  that  he  hopes 
to  be  at  the  head  of  the  Poll.  I  feel  very  anxious,  and  we 
all  abominate  that  miserable  little  animal,  Lord  C.  for 
giving  all  this  trouble  and  expense. 

"  October  8th. — On  Tuesday  morning,  a  little  after 
seven,  James  Knox  and  I  set  off  for  the  Election  in  my 
barouche.  We  took  four  horses  from  Walt  ham  Cross  to 
make  a  figure,  and  adorned  with  blue  favors  made  a 
very  fine  one.  A  crowd  was  gathered  round  the  hustings. 
Everyone  was  most  kindly  interested  for  us.  The  state 
of  the  poll  was  brought  me  by  some  friend  or  other,  every 
quarter  of  an  hour.  Mr.  C.  after  the  first  start  was  always 
at  the  head  of  the  poll,  which  was  not  closed  till  quite 
dark,  when  the  returning  officer  declared  the  state  as 

Calvert  365 

Cowper  316 

Cranbourne  256 


follows 


1  The  eldest  son  of  Lord  Salisbury.     He  was  born  1791,  and  suc- 
ceeded his  father  as  2nd  Marquess  1823.     He  died  1868. 


igo    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1812 

"  The  two  former  were  therefore  declared  duly  elected. 
Mr.  C.  came  forward  and  made  a  very  good  speech — well 
heard  and  much  applauded — but  as  to  Mr.  Cowper  they 
made  such  a  noise  with  mingled  groans  and  hisses  that 
not  one  word  could  be  heard,  nor  could  I  hear  a  word  of 
Lord  Cranbourne's  either.  By  this  time  it  was  so  dark 
that  it  was  not  thought  safe  to  chair  them,  as  Lord  C.'s 
mob  was  very  riotous,  so  it  was  put  off  till  the  next 
morning.  During  the  whole  of  the  day,  Lord  C.'s  mob 
was  terribly  noisy.  He  had  a  band  of  music  and  I  was 
half  deafened  by  the  uproar.  Lady  Salisbury  and  Lady 
Cecil  arrived  in  a  landau  a  little  before  three,  but  I 
believe  were  not  enchanted  at  the  state  of  things,  and 
went  away  long  before  the  close  of  the  poll.  I  must  own 
I  was  not  sorry  to  have  their  high  blood  pulled  down  a 
little.  Lady  Cowper  and  all  the  Cowper  family  came  to 
see  me  through  the  mob,  which  I  could  have  excused  as  I 
wished  to  avoid  all  appearance  of  coalition.  I  never  saw 
Mr.  C.  in  such  good  spirits  and  we  were  all  rejoiced  that 
the  little  Lord  was  beat.  We  dined  with  Mr.  Dallinger 
our  agent.  I  found  some  of  our  friends  the  electors  there, 
and  though  dreadfully  tired,  I  never  felt  more  pleased. 
When  we  reached  Hunsdon  the  bells  were  ringing  merrily 
for  our  success. 

"  October  iSth. — The  Baroness  Howe,  daughter  to  the 
late  Lord  Howe,  and  widow  of  Lord  Curzon's  son,  by 
whom  she  has  children,  a  woman  between  forty  and 
fifty,  has  gone  and  married  Phipps,  the  oculist !  The 
Duke  of  Cumberland  gave  her  away.  I  hear  she  began 
to  cry  during  the  ceremony,  upon  which  the  Duke  began 
to  laugh.  The  Royal  Family,  who  have  always  taken  a 
great  interest  in  the  Howe  family,  are  very  indignant  at 
this  horrible  mesalliance.  Indeed  one  cannot  wonder 
at  it,  for  it  is  most  degrading.1 

1  Sophia  Charlotte,  Baroness  Howe  of  Langar,  eldest  daughter  of 
the  celebrated  Admiral  Howe,  k.g.,  who  was  created  Earl  of  Howe 
August  19th,  1788.  At  his  death  in  1799  the  Earldom  became  extinct, 
but  the  above  Barony  devolved  on  her.  She  married  1787  the  Hon. 
Penn  Assheton  Curzon,  eldest  son  of  the  1st  Viscount  Curzon.     Their 


i8i2]  THE  SIEGE  OF  BURGOS  191 

"  November  1st. — Poor  Lord  and  Lady  Somers,  how  I 
pity  them  !  They  have  lost  at  Burgos,  their  eldest  son, 
Colonel  Cocks,  a  most  amiable  and  promising  young  man, 
and  so  good  an  officer  as  to  be  a  great  loss  to  the  Army. 
Burgos  Castle  still  holds  out  and  it  was  in  one  of  the 
sallies  from  it  that  this  young  man  was  unfortunately 
killed." 

It  was  during  the  siege  of  Burgos  that  John  Knox,  a 
nephew  of  whom  Mrs.  Calvert  was  extremely  fond,  had 
the  misfortune  to  lose  one  of  his  eyes.  Great  anxiety 
was  felt  by  his  family  until  further  news  arrived. 

"  He  arrived  at  Salamanca  on  November  1st  perfectly 
well  thank  God,  but  alas  !  his  left  eye  is  totally  destroyed. 
It  was  a  musket  ball  which  went  across  it,  Poor  fellow  ! 
We  must  however  be  thankful  that  he  is  alive  and  well." 

The  third  son  of  the  Hon.  Thomas  Knox,  he  was  born  in 
1788 ;  he  was  very  young  when  he  obtained  a  commission 
in  the  3rd  (now  Scots)  Guards,  and  at  Salamanca  he  had 
the  honour  as  junior  ensign  of  carrying  the  colours  of  his 
regiment.  For  the  loss  of  his  eye  at  Burgos  he  was  given 
a  pension  of  seventy  pounds  a  year ;  and,  as  he  lived 
sixty  years  after  that,  he  was  able  to  boast  that  his 
eye  had  cost  the  country  £4200.  Strange  to  say,  his 
son-in-law,  Count  Wilhelm  Zeppelin,  who  was  in  the 
Austrian  service,  lost  both  eyes  in  much  the  same  way 
in  1849,  at  the  siege  of  Brescia  ;  but  the  pension  he 
received  was  only  forty  pounds  a  year.1     John  Knox 

eldest  son,  Richard,  assumed  the  name  of  Howe,  and  was  in  1821 
created  Earl  Howe.  She  married  secondly,  as  his  second  wife,  in 
October,  18 12,  Jonathan  Wathen  Phipps,  g.c.h.,  son  of  Joshua 
Phipps.  He,  as  sole  heir  to  his  uncle,  James  Waller,  assumed  by  sign 
manual  in  18 14  the  surname  and  arms  of  Waller  only,  and  was  created 
a  baronet  May  30th,  18 15.  He  was  Groom  of  the  Bedchamber  to 
William  IV,  and  died  January  1st,  1853. 

1  Count  Zeppelin  died  at  Stuttgart  on  March  30th,  19 10,  exactly 
sixty-one  years  after  he  lost  his  sight. 


192    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1812 

married  in  1822  Lady  Mabella  Needham,  a  daughter 
of  Lord  Kilmorey,  who  survived  him  many  years.  He 
was  very  handsome  and  distinguished-looking,  and  even 
the  loss  of  his  eye  was  hardly  a  disfigurement. 

"  December  13th. — There  is  great  news  of  the  Russians 
beating  the  French  and  pursuing  them.  Still,  where  Bony 
is  nobody  knows,  but  it  is  supposed  at  Smolensk. 

"  December  31st. — Mr.  Acklom  was  found  dead  in  his 
bed  on  Thursday.  He  has  left  his  daughter  £10,000  a 
year,  and  all  his  personals,  and  his  wife  £16,000.  It  is 
supposed  that  Esther  will  now  jilt  Mr.  Madocks." 


CHAPTER    XV 

Princess  Charlotte  and  her  governess — Councillor  Ego — Mrs. 
Calvert  goes  to  Court — The  Regent's  ball — Sir  Thomas 
Graham — A  Princess  with  a  grievance — Appeal  to  the 
House  of  Commons — Her  Royal  Highness  is  acquitted — 
Mrs.  Siddons — Marriage  of  Edmond  Knox  to  Miss  Hope 
Vere — Battle  of  Vittoria — Countess  Lieven  at  the  Pavilion 
—  The  Prince  of  Orange — Joseph  Bonaparte's  sword — 
Strawberry  Hill. 

"  January  24th,  1813. 

MR.  C.  and  I  have  had  an  invitation  from 
the  Regent  to  a  Ball  on  the  5th  at  Carlton 
House.  This  will  oblige  us  to  go  to  Court 
on  the  4th,  to  the  celebration  of  the  Queen's 
birthday.  I  grudge  the  expense,  though  I 
like  being  asked. 

"  Princess  Charlotte  is,  I  hear,  to  be  presented  at  the 
Birthday  to  the  Queen,  and  everybody  is  to  be  presented 
to  her  at  the  Ball.  I  am  told  that  her  conversation  is 
very  superior  to  that  of  most  girls  of  her  age.  The 
Dowager  Duchess  of  Leeds  x  is  appointed  governess  in 
the  place  of  Lady  De  Clifford,  and  it  seems  that  the 
Princess  is  very  indignant  at  having  a  governess.  She 
says  that  if  she  is  reckoned  at  eighteen  by  her  people 
old  enough  to  reign,  she  is  certainly  old  enough  at  seven- 
teen to  do  without  a  governess. 

!i  The  papers  say  that  Bonaparte  had  a  very  narrow 
escape  of  being  taken  when  he  was  running  away  from 
his  army  in  Russia.    The  Cossacks  entered  a  yard  just  as 

1  Catherine,  daughter  of  Thomas  Anguish,  Accountant-General 
of  the  Court  of  Chancery,  married  1788,  as  his  second  wife,  Francis, 
5  th  Duke  of  Leeds,  k.g.     He  died  January  31st,  1799. 

O  193 


194    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

he  was  jumping  out  of  a  back  window,  and  escaped.  How 
unlucky  ! 

"  February  2nd. — Last  Saturday  I  dined  with  Isabella, 
who  has  a  snug  little  house,  22  Upper  Grosvenor  Street. 
I  sent  the  little  boys  to  the  Sanspareil  Theatre1  on  Friday 
evening.  We  dined  in  Grosvenor  Street  Sunday.  Lord 
Erskine,2  Sir  Charles  Hastings,  and  Sir  George  Shee,3 
dined  there  also.  Richly  did  Lord  E.  deserve  the  nick- 
name which  he  got  some  years  ago,  of  Councillor  Ego, 
for  never  did  I  hear  anyone  talk  so  much  of  themselves. 
He  is  the  vainest  creature  imaginable,  evermore  the  hero 
of  his  own  tale. 

"  February  $th. — Yesterday  was  the  birthday,  and  I 
went  to  Court.  It  was  my  own  birthday  also,  being 
forty-five  years  old.  May  I  grow  better  every  day  now 
as  I  get  older  !  !  !    I  am  not  yet  satisfied  with  myself. 

"  My  dress  at  Court  was  a  white  satin  petticoat  with 
a  beautiful  patent  net  drapery  (gold  Brussels  and  fringe) 
gown,  and  train  of  green  velvet,  ornamented  with  gold ; 
head  dress  seven  white  ostrich  feathers,  and  diamonds.  It 
does  not  sound  like  a  grandmother  of  forty-five,  but  I  really 
look  wonderfully  young.  I  set  out  from  this  at  a  little  after 
two,  but  the  crowd  was  so  immense  that  I  did  not  get  in 
until  near  four,  and  when  I  did  get  in,  it  was  a  service  of 
difficulty  getting  up  to  the  Queen.  She  received  me  with 
her  usual  graciousness.  The  Regent  stood  at  her  left 
hand,  and  shook  me,  as  usual,  kindly  by  the  hand.  I 
then  spoke  to  Princess  Elizabeth,  Mary,  and  Sophia  of 
Gloucester,  who  were  all  very  civil,  and  afterwards  I 
spoke  to  the  Dukes  of  Cambridge,  and  Clarence.  The 
Princess  of  Wales  was  at  Court,  but  not  Princess  Char- 
lotte.    It  is  said  she  would  not  appear,  as  her  mother 

1  Afterwards  known  as  the  Adelphi. 

2  The  Hon.  Thomas  Erskine,  born  1750,  the  third  son  of  the  5th 
Earl  of  Buchan,  was  appointed  in  1806  Lord  High  Chancellor  of  Great 
Britain,  and  elevated  to  the  Peerage  the  same  year  as  Baron  Erskine. 
He  was  gifted  with  the  most  powerful  eloquence.  Lord  Erskine  died 
1823. 

3  "  Le  Chevalier  Shee  "  was  the  hero  of  many  of  Talleyrand's 
famous  stories. 


i8i3]  A  BALL  AT  CARLTON  HOUSE  195 

was  not  allowed  to  present  her.  I  was  introduced  to  Sir 
Thomas  Graham.  He  is  a  very  ugly  man,  but  very  civil 
in  his  manner. 

"  John  Knox  is  expected  over  directly.  I  believe  he 
will  leave  the  army.  James  is  exchanged  into  the  85th 
which  is  quartered  at  Hythe,  therefore,  will  come  back 
directly  from  Ireland. 

"  February  8th. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  at  ten  o'clock  to  the 
Regent's  ball.  I  was  dressed  in  white  satin,  very  beauti- 
fully done  with  gold — feathers  and  diamonds  on  my  head. 
Nothing  could  be  more  superb  than  the  fete.  The  Queen, 
Princess  Elizabeth,  Mary,  Sophia  of  Gloucester,  and 
Princess  Charlotte  were  there,  and  all  the  Royal  Dukes, 
except  Gloucester,  were  present.  Nobody  knows  why  he 
did  not  go.  Princess  Mary  led  off  the  ball.  Princess 
Charlotte  is  a  good-humoured,  white,  fat  girl,  like  the 
Royal  Family,  but  there  don't  seem  much  grace  or 
dignity  about  her.  She  gives  me  more  the  idea  of  a 
boarding-school  girl  than  a  Princess.  Nobody  was  pre- 
sented to  her.  We  all  went  up  to  the  Queen,  who  sat  in 
a  great  chair,  and  were  very  graciously  received.  I 
afterwards  went  and  talked  some  time  with  Princess 
Elizabeth,  who  was  very  civil  and  asked  me  about  all 
my  children,  putting  me  in  mind  of  my  having  taken 
Felix  to  Windsor  Terrace  eighteen  years  ago.  I  en- 
quired after  Princess  Augusta,  and  she  told  me  she  was 
very  well,  but  they  made  it  a  rule  never  all  to  leave 
Windsor  at  a  time,  so  she  and  Princess  Sophia  remained 
there.  She  said  she  should  tell  her  I  enquired  about  her, 
and  she  was  sure  she  would  be  quite  delighted  to  hear  about 
me.  The  Prince  was  very  gracious  in  his  manner,  and 
upon  the  whole  I  should  have  spent  a  pleasant  evening 
had  I  felt  well,  but  my  head,  back,  and  every  part  of  me 
ached,  and  I  felt  completely  ill.  We  supped  at  about 
half  past  one.  The  Queen  and  Royal  Family,  and  a  few 
of  the  Nobility  supped  in  the  Conservatory.  I  went 
afterwards  to  look  at  it.  It  was  beautiful.  The  Russian 
Ambassadress,  Countess  Lieven,  was  there.  She  is  not 
very  pretty,  but  I  thought  her  dress  remarkably  so.    It 


196    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

was  black  velvet  up  to  her  throat,  and  long  sleeves,  and 
a  ruff  like  Mary,  Queen  of  Scots,  with  a  great  many 
diamond  chains,  etc.  I  had  ordered  my  carriage  at  half 
past  two,  but  could  not  get  it  until  nearly  five.  I  never 
was  so  tired  in  my  life.  I  really  felt  ill  all  Saturday.  I 
had  a  visit  on  Saturday  morning  from  my  poor  Friend, 
Lady  Sebright.  She  is  regularly  parted  from  her  husband 
— he  behaved  so  ill  to  her,  and  made  mistresses  of  all  her 
maids  and  governesses,  that  she  could  not  continue  with 
him.  He  has  let  his  house  in  Curzon  Street  for  four  years, 
and  lives  at  lodgings.  Lady  S.  has  got  a  small  house  in 
Baker  Street.  She  has  the  six  youngest  daughters,  he 
the  two  eldest.  The  son  is  at  Westminster.  He  is  a 
strange,  good-for-nothing  man. 

"  General  Graham  paid  me  a  visit  yesterday.  I  think 
him  an  uncommonly  ugly  and  not  at  all  prepossessing 
man  in  appearance,1  but  those  that  know  him  well  quite 
idolize  him." 

Sir  Thomas  Graham  of  Balgowan  was  born  in  1748 
and  was  the  son  of  Thomas  Graham  of  Balgowan,  and 
Miss  Christian  Hope.  He  married  in  1774  Mary,  third 
daughter  of  the  9th  Baron  Cathcart,  a  very  lovely  woman. 
She  died  in  1792,  and  the  romantic  story  of  her  picture 
by  Gainsborough  is  too  well  known  to  need  repetition. 
After  being  lost  or  put  away  for  many  years  it  is  now  in 
the  Scottish  National  Gallery  in  Edinburgh. 

Overcome  with  grief  at  his  wife's  death,  Thomas 
Graham  joined  Lord  Hood's  fleet  in  the  Mediterranean 
as  a  Volunteer  in  1793.  On  going  home  he  raised  a 
battalion  called  the  Perthshire  Volunteers  (now  the 
2nd  Scottish  Rifles)  and  his  commission  is  dated  1794. 
He  was  a  crack  shot  and  devoted  to  horses.  Sir  Thomas 
Graham  accompanied  Sir  John  Moore  in  his  expedition 

1  Later  Mrs.  Calvert  wrote  that  she  quite  retracted  what  she 
had  said,  and  added  :  "  He  improves  amazingly  on  acquaintance, 
and  I  think  him  very  pleasing." 


i8i3]       A  PRINCESS  WITH  A  GRIEVANCE         197 

to  Sweden ;   he  was  with  him  during  the  retreat  from 
Corunna,  and  actually  present  at  his  death. 

In  1814  he  was  created  Baron  Lynedoch,  and  received 
the  thanks  of  Parliament  for  his  distinguished  services  in 
the  Peninsula.  He  died  at  his  house  in  Stratton  Street 
in  1843,  at  the  age  of  ninety-five,  being  almost  totally 
blind.  It  was  Lord  Lynedoch  who,  in  1815,  started  the 
idea  of  a  club  for  the  sister  Services,  and  in  1817  the 
first  stone  of  the  Senior  United  Service  Club  was  laid  in 
consequence.  His  portrait  by  Sir  Thomas  Lawrence  is 
one  of  its  chief  ornaments.  Lord  Lynedoch  left  no  heir, 
and  at  his  death  the  title  became  extinct. 

"  February  13th. — I  visited  Lady  Spencer  Wednesday 
morning ;  Lady  Holland  came  in.  Nothing  is  talked  of 
but  a  letter  the  Princess  of  Wales  has  written  to  the 
Prince  and  which  has  been  published  in  all  the  newspapers. 
She  complains  of  not  being  allowed  to  see  enough  of  her 
daughter,  and  of  her  education  being  neglected.  It  is 
reckoned  a  very  unadvised  step,  and  she  is  much  blamed. 

"  February  igth. — Sir  James,  Isabella,  Edmond  Temple 
and  Felix  dined  here  yesterday,  also  Miss  Smith,  the 
actress.  My  mother  got  acquainted  with  her  at  Lady 
Kingston's  with  whom  she  lives  a  great  deal.  She  is 
little,  with  fine  eyes,  fine  teeth,  and  an  animated  counte- 
nance. She  is  lively  and  agreeable  in  conversation,  and 
I  believe,  is  reckoned  a  good  actress.  She  read  scenes 
out  of  '  The  Rivals/  and  '  The  Merchant  of  Venice/  and 
recited  most  beautifully,  a  beautiful  ballad  by  Southey, 
'  The  Maid  of  the  Inn.'  It  is  very  affecting,  and  I  was 
fool  enough  to  shed  a  good  many  tears." 

Lady  Stronge's  second  son  was  born  on  February  21st, 
at  22  Upper  Grosvenor  Street. 

"  February  25th. — Nothing  can  go  on  better  than 
Isabella  and  her  babe.  She  recovers,  I  think,  much  better 
than  last  time.     Our  dear  John  Knox  arrived  yesterday 


198    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1813 

from  Lisbon.  He  seems  very  well,  thank  God,  and  looks 
very  well,  except  that,  alas,  his  left  eye  is  completely 
gone.  It  is  sunk  in  ;  he  wears  no  patch  on  it,  and  it  is 
really  less  disparagement  than  one  would  expect. 

"  Colonel  Byde  tells  me  that  there  is  a  treaty  of  mar- 
riage on  foot,  and  pretty  far  advanced  between  the  Duke 
of  Clarence  and  a  sister  of  the  Emperor  of  Russia.  She 
is  plain,  he  says,  but  well  behaved,  and  well  educated, 
and  speaks  English  well. 

"  Mr.  Cochrane  Johnston  has  given  notice  of  a  motion 
on  Monday  of  enquiring  into  the  Princess  of  Wales's 
conduct.  There  are  various  opinions  about  her ;  some 
very  bad,  all  accusing  her  at  least  of  levity.  God  knows 
how  it  will  end !  The  accounts  from  Russia  are  good. 
They  have  taken  Koningsberg  and  other  places,  and 
there  are  rumours  of  still  further  successes,  and  the  King 
of  Prussia  has  withdrawn  himself  from  the  power  of  the 
French,  but  how  he  will  act,  remains  to  be  seen.  I  sat 
with  Isabella  sometime  yesterday  evening.  She  is  going 
on  very  well,  thank  God.  I  think  the  little  fellow  will 
be  a  pretty  child. 

"  March  yd. — I  sat  with  Isabella  from  nine  until 
between  ten  and  eleven,  when  I  went  to  Lady  Salisbury's, 
which  I  thought  a  very  dull  Assembly,  and  did  not  get 
home  till  near  one.  Lord  Cremorne  died  yesterday  morn- 
ing. My  sister  and  I  inherit  a  small  estate  in  Wales,  which 
was  left  when  I  was  but  seven  years  old  by  a  Lady 
Primrose  in  reversion  to  us.  We  are  in  hopes  it  will  turn 
out  a  better  one  than  was  thought. 

"  The  Speaker  read  a  letter  to  him  from  the  Princess 
of  Wales,  throwing  herself  on  the  House  to  give  her  a 
fair  trial.    This  has  produced  a  great  sensation. 

"  Mrs.  Robinson  has  had  a  letter  from  Richard.  He 
was  married  last  Friday  to  Lady  Helena  Moore,  and 
wrote  three  hours  after  the  knot  was  tied. 

"  There  are  a  great  many  scandalous  reports  propa- 
gated about  Princess  Charlotte,  most  infamous  things, 
and  I  hear  they  are  chalking  it  about  on  the  walls.  It 
must  be  some  wicked  ill-designing  person. 


i8i3]  MRS.  KNOX'S  ASSEMBLY  199 

"  March  8th. — Lady  Somers  paid  a  visit  here.  I  have 
not  seen  her  since  her  son  was  killed,  and  was  astonished 
at  her  composure  and  cheerfulness.  She  has  great  merit, 
for  it  cannot  be  doubted  but  that  she  must  feel  his  loss 
most  bitterly.  I  afterwards  sat  with  Isabella  from  five  till 
half-past  six,  while  there  Lady  Darnley  and  her  daughters 
came  there.  They  brought  General  Stuart's  son,  a  boy  of 
near  seven  with  them.  I  never  saw  so  agreeable,  clever, 
or  charming  a  boy.  They  say  his  passions  are  dreadful 
and  uncontrolled,  but  he  was  in  a  very  good  humour, 
gave  his  opinion  on  every  subject,  joined  in  conversation, 
and  sung  an  Italian  song  for  us.  I  should  be  terrified  if  I 
had  such  a  child  ! 

"  March  gth. — Chaperoned  Fanny 2  to  Lady  Salisbury's. 
Lady  Isabella  Fitzgibbon  2  came  out  for  the  first  time 
last  night.  I  took  a  great  fancy  to  her.  She  is  a  very 
pretty,  pleasing  unaffected  girl.  Lord  Gage  was  married 
yesterday  to  Miss  Foley. 

"  March  20th. — My  sister  had  a  very  brilliant  Assembly 
last  night,  all  the  fine  people  of  London — the  Dukes  of 
Clarence  ;  Cambridge  and  Gloucester ; — The  French 
Princes,  Monsieur,  and  the  Due  de  Berri,  Isabella  was 
there  and  not  at  all  the  worse  for  it. 

"  March  25th. — I  dined  yesterday  in  Grosvenor  Street 
and  went  at  night  to  a  very  select  Ball  at  Lady  Carhamp- 
ton's  ;  I  own  I  like  a  fuller  one  much  better.  Waltzing 
was  attempted — Lady  Boringdon,  Mrs.  Drummond  and 
Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone  stood  up  twice  and  began,  but 
nobody  following,  they  stopped.  I  came  home  at  one 
o'clock. 

"  The  Duchess  of  Brunswick  died  yesterday,  Lady 
Harriet  Sullivan  put  off  her  party  in  consequence,  which 
nobody  seems  to  think  was  at  all  necessary — although 
she  is  the  King's  sister. 

"  April  6th. — Yesterday  was  my  dear  Isabella's 
twentieth  birthday.    Little  John  Calvert  was  christened 

1  Hitherto  called  Lavinia — her  name  was  Lavinia  Frances. 
8  Lady  Isabella  FitzGibbon  was  the  daughter  of  the  ist  Earl  of 
Clare.     She  died  unmarried. 


200    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

yesterday  by  Mr.  W.  Calvert  having  been  only  half 
baptized  before. 

"  April  14th. — The  City  of  London  have  presented  an 
address  to  the  Princess  of  Wales  at  Kensington  on  her 
acquittal — the  crowd,  they  say,  was  immense.  I  own  / 
don't  think  her  acquitted,  I  side  with  the  Prince  Regent. 
I  am  sorry  to  say  the  popular  tide  at  present  is  against 
him,  but  I  don't  despair  of  its  changing. 

"  April  2jth. — Sir  Joseph  Yorke  is  going  to  marry  the 
Dowager  Lady  Clanricarde — her  third  husband  !  The 
old  ladies  seem  quite  to  have  a  rage  for  marrying.  Lady  C. 
is  forty-five,  and  Lady  Sligo,  who  has  just  married  Sir 
William  Scott,  is  forty-six.1 

"  May  yth,  Park  Street. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  in  Grosve- 
nor  Street.  Mr.  Pigot,  a  cousin  of  mine  was  there,  married 
about  a  year  ago  to  a  very  pretty  but  I  think  disagreeable 
young  woman — such  pert,  conceited,  'Bath  Miss'  manners. 

"  May  13th. — We  went  in  the  morning  to  see  the  Ex- 
hibition at  Somerset  House  and  yesterday  to  see  Sir 
Joshua  Reynolds'  collection  of  pictures. 

"  May  15th. — Accounts  arrive  from  Paris  of  Bona- 
parte having  beaten  the  Russians  and  Prussians.  General 
Murray  has  however  beaten  Suchet  in  the  East  of  Spain 
and  that  is  some  little  comfort. 

"  May  26th. — On  Monday,  Mr.  C.  was  at  the  House  all 
night.  The  Catholics  lost  their  Bill  by  four  ;  the  Prince 
set  his  face  violently  against  them — bribing  and  canvass- 
ing till  he  carried  his  point. 

"  May  30th,  Hunsdon  House. — I  went  with  my  sister 
to  a  very  crowded  assembly  at  Lady  Ellenborough's  and 
another  at  Mrs.  Thompson's.  The  Regent  was  at  the 
latter,  talking  a  great  deal  to  Mrs.  Siddons.  Now  I  am 
come  home  to  pack  up  as  we  go  next  Saturday  to  Brighton. 
The  little  dear  women  (Mary  and  Harriet)  are  thank  God 
very  well." 

In  June  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  reports  of  some  terrible 
fighting  in  Germany,  and  adds  : 

1  Mrs.  Calvert's  idea  of  old  age  is  rather  amusing. 


rti3]  MARRIAGE  OF  EDMOND  KNOX  201 

"  The  French  claim  the  victory,  whilst  the  allies  do  the 
same.  However,  the  former  gain  ground,  and  it  is  said 
that  they  are  in  possession  of  Hamburg." 

Later  in  the  month  she  went  with  her  children  to 
Brighton,  where  she  took  a  house  in  the  Marine  Parade. 
On  June  13th  she  writes  : 

"  I  had  a  letter  from  Mr.  C,  announcing  that  Edmond 
Knox  is  going  to  be  married  to  Miss  Hope,  niece  to  Colonel 
and  Mrs.  Hamilton.  I  knew  he  was  about  it.  She  is  a 
very  good  young  woman,  and  extremely  well  educated, 
but  not  pretty." 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  mistaken  in  thinking  that  Miss  Hope 
was  niece  to  Mrs.  Hamilton.  She  was  the  daughter  of 
her  first  cousin,  Mrs.  Hope  Vere,  of  Craigie  Hall  and 
Blackwood.  Jane  Hope  Vere  had  been  adopted  by  Mrs. 
Hamilton  during  her  parents'  lifetime,  and  lived  with  her 
for  some  years  before  her  marriage,  but  her  life,  owing  to 
Mrs.  Hamilton's  tyrannical  temper,  was  an  unhappy  one, 
and  it  is  pleasant  to  find  that  her  husband's  devotion  after- 
wards made  up  for  all  that  she  had  suffered  so  patiently. 

"  Mr.  C.  writes  me  word  that  everything  is  settled  for 
Edmond's  marriage.  Mr.  Knox  settles  £10,000  upon  him 
and  my  sister  £10,000  at  her  death.    Miss  H.  has  £15,000." 

The  marriage  took  place  at  St.  George's,  Hanover 
Square,  on  July  3rd,  1813,  and  the  young  couple  went 
down  to  Lady  Pery's  house  at  Richmond.  Mrs.  Hamilton 
followed  them  almost  immediately,  but  met  with  a  very 
cool  reception  from  the  bridegroom. 

"  My  mother  wrote  me  an  account  of  the  wedding. 
Fanny  Knox  and  Lady  Elizabeth  Hay  *  were  brides- 

1  Lady  Elizabeth  Hay,  a  daughter  of  the  Marquis  of  Tweeddale, 
was  at  that  time  engaged  to  James  Hope  Vere,  and  married  him  very 
shortly  afterwards. 


202    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [i8ij 

maids,  and,  besides  the  near  relations,  Lady  Stronge, 
Mr.  Holmes,  Lady  Betty  Gavin  1  and  the  Ladies  Hay 
were  the  only  people  present." 

"  June  29th. — When  I  went  to  the  Library  to  get  a 
book,  I  saw  on  a  slip  of  paper  printed,  '  It  has  been  com- 
municated by  telegraph  that  Lord  Wellington  has  gained 
a  complete  victory  over  the  French.'  This  came  by  one 
of  the  coaches  from  London,  and  knowing  by  this  there 
had  been  a  battle,  I,  of  course,  felt  very  unhappy  about 
my  beloved  Felix.  About  nine  at  night,  however,  I  was, 
thank  God,  most  agreeably  relieved  by  my  dear  Thomas 
sending  an  express  from  London  with  a  list  of  the  killed 
and  wounded,  and  an  account  that,  (blessed  be  the 
Almighty,)  his  name  was  not  among  either.  The  battle 
was  at  Vittoria,  and  the  French  have  lost  all  their  cannon, 
provisions,  money,  etc.  Jourdan's  Baton  is  sent  over 
here.  I  had  the  happiness  this  morning  of  receiving  a 
few  lines  from  dear  Felix,  dated  the  23rd,  saying  that  he 
was  quite  well,  and  had  escaped  untouched  at  the  battle 
of  the  21st.  He  says  he  had  not  time  to  write  more,  but 
the  first  moment  he  could,  he  would  send  me  an  account 
of  it.  His  column  was  just  setting  out  to  try  and  inter- 
cept a  convoy  with  money  going  to  Barcelona.  General 
Calvert  writes  word  that  Captain  Freemantle,  who  came 
over  with  the  dispatches,  saw  Felix  in  perfect  health  after 
the  battle.  Sir  Thomas  Graham  seems,  by  Lord  Welling- 
ton's dispatches,  to  have  done  a  great  deal.  Lord  W.  is 
gazetted  a  Field  Marshal,  and  I  dare  to  say  he  will  be  a 
Duke. 

"  We  had  a  great  illumination  here  for  the  victory. 

"  July  nth. — We  have  taken  the  '  Chesapeake,'  an 
American  frigate." 

It  was  about  this  time  that  General  Graham  was 
wounded  at  Tortosa,  though  very  slightly.  Indeed,  the 
wound   would   never  have   been  noticed,   but   for  the 

1  Lady  Elizabeth  Maitland,  eldest  daughter  of  James,  7th  Earl 
of  Lauderdale,  married  1770  David  Gavin.     She  died  1826. 


i8i3]       MRS.  CALVERT  AT  THE  PAVILION        203 

patient's  restless  activity,  which  gave  it  no  chance  of 
getting  well.  Felix  Calvert  wrote  his  mother  an  account 
of  the  fighting,  mentioning  that  he  had  had  a  great  escape, 
for  a  ball  struck  his  hair  without  touching  his  skin. 

"A  telegraphic  account  has  come  from  the  Pavilion  that 
Soult  has  attacked  Lord  Wellington,  and  has  been  defeated 
by  him.  There  are  also  despatches  from  Sir  Thomas 
Graham,  but  the  fog  was  so  great  they  could  make  out 
no  more.  Much  agitated  by  the  news,  I  met  Colonel 
Bloomfield,  who  lives  with  the  Prince,  and  he  promised 
me  faithfully  that  he  would  send  me  word  if  any  further  in- 
telligence arrived.  About  five  o'clock,  I  received  a  mes- 
sage from  the  Prince  to  go  in  the  evening  to  the  Pavilion, 
which  I  accordingly  did,  though  in  very  bad  spirits.  I 
never  can  forget  the  Prince's  extreme  kindness,  and  good 
nature  to  me  the  whole  of  the  evening.  He  crossed  the 
room  from  where  he  was  sitting  the  instant  I  came, 
both  hands  extended  to  me,  and  telling  me  how  happy 
he  was  to  see  me  once  more  in  that  house — that  he  did 
not  know  I  was  there  until  his  brother  that  morning  had 
told  him  he  had  met  me  walking,  and  that  he  sent  directly 
to  hunt  me  out.  He  made  me  sit  by  him  several  times  in 
the  course  of  the  evening.  At  one  time  Colonel  Bloom- 
field  brought  him  a  letter.  I  gave  an  involuntary  start, 
thinking  it  was  despatches,  which  he  observing,  turned 
to  me  in  the  best-natured  manner,  and  said  it  was  only 
a  letter  from  Sussex,  and  he  would  make  me  read  the 
signature  before  he  read  the  letter.  He  afterwards  read 
me  the  letter.  It  was  from  Dr.  Jackson  (who  was  Dean 
of  Christchurch)  refusing  the  Bishopric  of  London,  which 
he  had  offered  him,  and  which  the  Prince  regretted  much, 
as  he  says  he  is  the  fittest  person  in  England  for  it.  The 
letter,  I  think,  reflects  the  highest  credit  on  the  Prince. 
The  respectful  familiarity  of  it  was  most  pleasing.  He  had 
been  his  tutor.  It  was  a  very  well  written  letter,  and  from 
the  Prince's  character  of  him,  he  must  be  a  most  excellent 
man.  By  the  bye,  I  never  heard  so  high  a  character  as  the 
Prince  gave  my  beloved  Husband.    He  concluded  it  with 


204    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1813 

much  warmth,  saying,  '  I  wish  to  God  there  were  many 
more  like  him/    How  gratifying  this  was  to  me  ! 

"  The  Duke  of  Clarence  was  also  very  kind  to  me. 
He  was,  as  well  as  myself,  in  great  anxiety,  having  two 
sons  with  Lord  Wellington.  He  told  me  his  eldest  son 
went  over  in  the  ship  with  my  beloved  Felix  the  last 
time,  and  wrote  of  him  in  the  highest  commendation, 
and  said  he  was  the  finest  fellow  he  knew. 

"  The  only  ladies  besides  myself  at  the  Pavilion  were 
Lady  Charles  Somerset,  and  her  daughter,  Mrs.  Hervey 
Aston  (a  sister  of  Lady  Hertford's),  and  her  daughter, 
Lady  Burrell,  (a  very  pleasing  woman,  natural  daughter 
to  Lord  Egremont,)  Lady  Sarah  Bailey,  a  Mrs.  Paulet, 
wife  to  a  son  of  Lord  Paulet 's  in  the  Navy,  Catalani,  and 
Madame  Bianchi  were  there.  I  forgot  also  the  Countess 
Lieven,  the  Russian  Ambassadress.  She  played  on  the 
pianoforte,  which  she  does  very  finely,  principally 
voluntaries.  She  played  the  march  the  Russians  march 
to  battle  with  ;  it  is  beautiful. 

"  We  left  the  Pavilion  at  near  one.  The  Prince  at 
parting  said  he  hoped  to  find  me  here  on  his  return, 
which  is  to  be  Tuesday.  They  all  went  away  yesterday, 
and  the  Duke  of  Clarence  told  me  he  would  call  on  me 
when  he  returned." 

Poor  Mrs.  Calvert  describes  herself  as  "  most  wretched  " 
during  this  trying  time  of  suspense. 

"  Vague  and  horrible  reports  are  in  the  papers  brought 
by  the  Swallow.  The  most  frightful  paragraphs  appear 
that  500  have  been  killed  and  wounded  in  an  unsuccessful 
attack  on  St.  Sebastian,  perhaps  a  tenth  of  them  officers. 
What  a  cruel  surmise,  if  only  a  surmise  !  The  Pilot 
mentions  that  Sir  Thomas  Graham  and  his  staff  had  a 
narrow  escape  while  inspecting  the  trenches,  by  a  shell 
bursting,  that  he  and  those  about  him  threw  themselves 
on  their  faces,  and  escaped  unhurt.  The  Lord  be  praised. 
I  endeavour  to  hope  and  think  the  best,  but  at  times  I  am 
in  an  agony,  and  when  near  the  time  I  expect  intelli- 


i8i3]  THE  PRINCE  OF  ORANGE  205 

gence,  it  increases  to  a  most  painful  degree.     At  other 
times,  I  reason  myself  into  being  sure  he  is  safe." 

The  poor  anxious  mother  found  herself  unable  to  sleep 
without  doses  of  laudanum — a  dangerous  remedy  that  Mr. 
C.  would  certainly  not  have  approved  of.  In  the  mean- 
time she  went  every  night  to  the  Pavilion,  and  nobody 
could  have  been  kinder  or  more  sympathetic  than  the 
Prince. 

"  Yesterday  I  dined  there  to  meet  the  Russian  Am- 
bassadress. There  were  no  women  besides,  except  Mrs. 
Aston  and  her  daughter.  I  sat  between  the  Duke  of 
Clarence  and  the  Russian  Ambassador,  Count  Lieven, 
who  is  a  remarkably  pleasing  gentlemanlike  young  man. 
He  told  me  that  he  is  quite  certain  that  the  armistice  will 
not  be  prolonged,  which  I  am  delighted  at.  I  don't 
admire  the  Countess.  She  looks  very  haughty,  and  as  if 
she  despised  us  all. 

"  Last  night  there  was  a  fine  ball.  The  Prince  having 
been  so  good  as  to  invite  Fanny,  I  took  her.  She  was 
promoted  to  great  honour,  for  she  led  off  the  Ball  with 
the  young  Prince  of  Orange.  He  is  a  very  fine  young  man, 
nearly  twenty  one,  remarkably  gentlemanlike  and  pleasing 
in  his  manners.  Why  the  Duke  of  Clarence  fixed  upon 
Fanny  to  introduce  to  his  Serene  Highness  I  know  not, 
but  you  may  suppose  she  was  much  pleased.  The  Prince 
deputed  the  Duke  of  Clarence  to  act  as  master  of  the 
ceremonies,  which  he  did  most  actively,  getting  all  the 
ladies  partners.  He  introduced  (the  next  set)  to  Fanny 
a  young  Russian,  with  whom  she  chattered  French  at  a 
great  rate.  The  set  after  Major  Howard  asked  her 
himself.  He  is  one  of  Lord  Carlisle's  sons — a  very  hand- 
some gentlemanlike  young  man.  He  is  one  of  the  Prince's 
Equerries.  We  came  away  at  the  end  of  that  set,  being 
nearly  four  and  I  told  the  Prince  I  was  afraid  to  let  her 
stay  any  longer.  The  Duke  of  Clarence  took  her  under 
one  arm  and  me  under  the  other  to  supper,  and  sat 


206    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

between  us.  He  took  such  care  of  her,  giving  her  every- 
thing he  thought  she  would  like  to  eat.  The  young 
Prince  of  Orange  sat  at  the  other  side  of  me  at  supper, 
and  I  was  very  happy  to  talk  to  him  about  Felix,  who 
he  knows  very  well,  and  saw  in  perfect  health,  thank 
God,  the  day  he  sailed.  He  says  he  thinks  it  very  likely 
I  shall  see  him  soon,  for  that  his  opinion  is  that  when 
St.  Sebastian  falls,  he  will  be  sent  with  the  despatches. 
However,  he  charged  me  not  to  feel  too  sure,  for  fear  he 
should  be  mistaken.  He  is  very  well-bred,  and  mild  in 
his  manners.  He  told  Fanny  he  hoped  she  would  write 
her  brother  word  that  he  had  had  the  honour  of  dancing 
with  her.  Fan  looked  really  very  well.  Her  figure 
appeared  to  great  advantage,  her  manners  very  modest 
and  quite  composed.  At  first  she  looked  rather  pale, 
and  trembled  from  head  to  foot,  but  that  soon  went  off, 
and  she  enjoyed  everything  very  much.  The  Prince  at 
parting  shook  her  very  kindly  by  the  hand,  and  hoped 
she  had  been  amused. 

"  Friday,  August  2jth. — I  was  on  Monday  as  usual  at 
the  Pavilion.  Captain  Blankley  arrived  in  the  course  of  it, 
and  brought  in  Joseph  Bonaparte's  sword,  taken  at  the 
Battle  of  Vittoria,  to  present  to  the  Regent.  It  is  a  most 
splendid,  highly  polished  one,  Napoleon's  name  engraved 
upon  it,  and  a  present  to  him  from  his  brother,  which 
the  Prince  told  me  he  always  gives  with  the  Order  of 
Merit.  Yesterday  I  got  my  message,  as  usual,  to  go  to 
the  Pavilion,  but  about  eight,  I  got  another  message 
from  the  Prince  to  beg  I  would  bring  Fanny.  I  ac- 
cordingly did,  and  there  was  a  very  pleasant  impromptu 
dance.  Fanny  danced  with  Major  Howard,  the  Duke  of 
Clarence  and  Captain  Jansen,  a  gallant  young  Irish 
officer,  who  has  lost  an  arm  in  the  service  of  his  country. 
The  Prince  danced  a  few  couple  himself  with  Lady 
Mildmay,  but  almost  directly  sprained  his  ankle,  and 
seemed  to  be  in  a  good  deal  of  pain  for  some  time,  but 
it  went  off.  Fanny  looked  remarkably  well.  I  think 
people  seem  to  like  her,  and  think  her  pretty.  I  went 
away  with  her  directly  after  supper,  as  I  was  afraid  to  let 


i8i3]  STRAWBERRY  HILL  207 

her  stay  longer.  At  going  away,  I  thanked  the  Prince  for 
all  his  kindness  to  me,  and  he  shook  us  both  very  kindly 
by  the  hand.  He  left  Brighton  this  morning,  as  did  the 
Duke  of  Clarence,  I  believe  to  return  no  more  this  season. 
There  is  great  news  arrived  this  morning — that  Austria 
has  joined  the  allies.  I  trust  in  God  that  horrible  Bony 
will  now  meet  with  his  deserts  ! 

"  I  have  been  walking  and  driving  this  morning,  and 
am  a  good  deal  tired,  and  shall  now  go  to  bed  for  the 
first  time  these  ten  days,  at  a  reasonable  hour. 

"  I  saw  in  the  papers  to-day  an  account  of  the  Prince's 
ball.  They  say  it  was  opened  by  the  Hereditary  Prince  of 
Orange  and  '  the  lovely  Miss  Calvert/  which  amused 
Fan  very  much. 

"  August  30th. — I  have  engaged  No.  6  on  the  Pavilion 
Parade  for  nine  guineas  a  week,  but  I  had  scarcely 
settled  myself  before  the  woman  of  the  house  came  and 
told  me  I  must  give  her  a  guinea  more  a  week  than  I  had 
engaged  to  do.  I  was  so  angry  that  I  jumped  up  and  said 
I  would  not  stay  an  hour  under  her  house  to  be  so  im- 
posed upon.  I  therefore  crossed  the  road,  and  engaged 
the  house  I  had  taken  for  my  sister  for  three  weeks,  and 
moved  my  family  into  it  at  once. 

"  Sept.  yth,  Grosvenor  Street. — Lady  Stuart,  mother  to 
Sir  Charles  Stuart,  Minister  at  Lisbon,  and  her  nieces, 
two  Miss  Hobarts,  dined  here. 

"  We  have  been  this  morning  to  see  Strawberry  Hill. 
It  belongs  to  Lady  Waldegrave.  The  collection  of 
pictures  there,  and  other  curiosities,  all  collected  by  the 
late  Horace  Walpole  (Lord  Orford,)  are  very  curious. 
They  are  all  enumerated  in  his  works,  therefore  it  would 
be  absurd  of  me  to  enter  them  here. 

"  I  have  chosen  a  very  pretty  paper  for  my  Sitting 
Room  at  Hunsdon,  an  imitation  of  the  Old  Indian  papers. 
I  hear  that  Miss  Acklom  has  paid  all  the  expenses  Mr. 
Madocks  incurred  on  her  account,  to  the  amount  of 
some  thousands  of  pounds/' 


CHAPTER    XVI 

Siege  of  St.  Sebastian — Hon.  William  Pery  killed  in  action — 
Madame  de  Stael — Defeat  of  Bonaparte — Insurrection  in 
Holland — The  great  fog  of  1814 — Theatricals  at  Brighton — 
A  perilous  journey — Lord  Althorp  and  Miss  Acklom — 
Edmond  Knox  escorts  the  Due  de  Berri  back  to  France — 
Bonaparte  is  sent  to  Elba — Louis  XVIII  returns  to  Paris. 

YESTERDAY  I  received  a  letter  from  General 
Calvert  to  tell  me  that  Felix  was  safe  and 
well  after  the  storming  of  St.  Sebastian  which 
took  place  on  the  31st.  After  a  most  san- 
guinary resistance  they  got  possession  of  the 
Town.  Thank  God,  my  beloved  boy  escaped  unhurt. 
He  is  mentioned  in  General  Graham's  despatch  in  very 
flattering  terms.  Why  he  did  not  come  with  the  des- 
patches I  cannot  think  ;  Major  Hare  has  brought  them. 

"  The  poor  Limericks  have  lost  their  son  William,1 
who  was  killed  in  the  storming  party.  I  am  most  sincerely 
grieved  for  them. 

"  Bonaparte's  General,  Vandanne,  has  been  beat  in 
Germany  and  killed.  Things  seem  going  on  very  well 
there,  but  I  can  think  of  nothing  but  Spain.  We  sent 
an  excuse  to  Hatfield  House  (where  we  were  going  to  a 
ball,  and  to  sleep  last  night)  on  account  of  the  death  of 
William  Pery. 

"  September  21st. — On  Friday,  Fanny  and  I  went  to 
Richmond,  where  we  arrived  in  time  for  dinner.  We  all 
went  in  the  evening  to  Lady  Kingston's,  where  we  met 

1  The  Hon.  William  Cecil  Pery,  born  1791,  killed  at  St.  Sebastian 
August  21st,  18 1 3. 

208 


i8i3]  MADAME  DE  STAEL  209 

the  famous  Madame  de  Stael,1  Necker's  daughter.  She 
has  nothing  captivating  in  her  appearance,  which  is 
coarse  and  vulgar,  and  her  movements  are  ungraceful. 
She  has  ugly  long  teeth,  but  there  is  intelligence  in  her 
eyes,  and  her  hands  and  arms  are  reckoned  handsome. 
I  wished  to  have  heard  more  of  her  conversation,  but 
Lady  K.  bored  us  with  her  favourite  Miss  Smith,  the 
actress,  reciting  and  reading  scenes  out  of  plays,  when 
I  would  much  rather  have  listened  to  this  extraordinary 
woman.  She  did  not  stay  long,  so  I  heard  her  speak 
but  a  few  sentences,  but  that  few  made  me  wish 
to  hear  more.  Her  daughter  was  with  her.  She  is 
neither  well,  nor  ill  looking,  and  has  no  particular  ex- 
pression of  countenance." 

Lady  Holland  wrote  to  Mrs.  Creevey,  "  The  great 
wonder  of  the  time  is  Madame  de  Stael.  She  is  surrounded 
by  all  the  curious,  and  every  sentence  she  utters  is  caught 
up  and  repeated  with  various  commentaries.  She  is  much 
less  ugly  than  I  expected,  her  eyes  are  fine,  and  her  hands 
and  arms  very  handsome.  The  servants  at  Assemblies 
announce  her  as  Mrs.  Stale." 

"  A  letter  which  was  brought  me  by  the  second  post 
from  London  caused  me  the  greatest  agitation.  It  was 
dated  Brighton,  and  from  my  beloved  Felix,  saying  he 
was  just  arrived  there,  but  was  so  weak,  that  he  was 
unable  to  follow  me,  and  hoped  I  would  come  to  him. 
He  added  that  he  was  sorry  to  tell  me  he  had  felt  so  hurt 
at  Sir  Thomas  Graham's  having  past  him  over,  and  sent 
another  with  the  despatches  when  it  was  his  place  to 
have  come,  that  he  had  given  up  his  situation  on  his 
staff. 

"  We  arrived  at  Brighton  soon  after  one,  and  found 
my  beloved  boy  very  weak.  His  illness,  I  believe,  was 
partly  brought  on  by  vexation.    Indeed,  I  think  General 

1  Madame  de  Stael  used  to  describe  London  as  a  "  province  in 
brick." 


210    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

Graham  behaved  very  unkindly  to  him,  but  although  he 
feels  that,  and  was  too  much  hurt  to  remain  in  his  family, 
he  is  still  so  much  attached  to  him,  that  he  is  anxious  to 
be  on  the  same  friendly  terms  with  him. 

"  September  28th. — Mr.  C.  had  a  letter  to-day  from  poor 
Limerick.  He  expresses  in  his  letter,  in  spite  of  his  own 
sorrows,  great  anxiety  for  Felix,  who  he  says,  his  poor 
boy  wrote  word,  had  been  so  kind  to  him,  that  had  it  not 
been  for  his  generous  kindness  to  him,  he  would  have 
sunk  under  the  privations  and  hardships  of  the  campaign. 
Limerick  says  he  never  shall  forget  it.  Dear  Felix  never 
made  a  boast  of  his  kindness,  so  we  were  quite  ignorant 
of  it. 

"  Poor  Lady  Sebright  is  here.  She  lives  in  a  dismal 
place.  Her  health  is  wretched,  and  she  really  is  the  most 
forlorn  looking  creature  I  ever  saw,  and  her  children 
most  miserably  ugly.  I  feel  great  compassion  for  her  in 
every  particular.  She  seems  in  a  most  nervous  fidgety 
state. 

"  Mr.  C.  has  seen  Mr.  Brand,  who  says  General  Graham 
acted  under  a  mistaken  idea,  thinking  that  my  Felix  had 
not  served  his  time,  he  thought  he  would  reap  no  ad- 
vantage by  coming  with  the  despatches.  Mr.  B.  thinks 
he  was  wrong  in  not  having  any  explanation  on  the  subject 
with  Felix.  Mr.  C.  says  everybody  says  Sir  Thomas 
was  wrong,  and  Felix  acted  perfectly  right,  and  Mr. 
Yorke  told  him  he  would  have  done  exactly  as  he  did. 
This  is  all  very  consoling.  Mr.  Brand  told  Mr.  C.  that 
Sir  Thomas  has  often  told  him  that  of  all  men  he  had 
ever  been  under  fire  with,  from  the  Private  to  the  General 
officer,  he  never  met  one  possessed  with  such  coolness 
and  intrepidity  as  Felix. 

"  My  poor  Flora  is  dead  of  the  distemper,  so  I  will 
have  no  more  dogs,  as  I  was  really  grown  fond  of  her. 

"  October  1.0th. — Fanny  and  Miss  Ryder  have  read, 
'  Col.  Hutchinson's  Life  '  out  loud  of  an  evening  to  me, 
and  now  they  are  reading  Kotzebue's  '  Life  in  Siberia.' 

"  Lady  Helena  Robinson  has  had  a  son,  who  only  lived 
to  be  baptized.     Miss   Lizy  Townshend   (Lord  John's 


i8i3]  DEFEAT  OF  BUONAPARTE  211 

second  daughter)  is  to  be  married  to  Captain  Clifford,1 
son  to  the  late  Duke  of  Devonshire,  by  his  second  wife, 
Lady  E.  Foster,  previous  to  the  death  of  his  first  wife. 

"  October  31st,  Brighton. — Mr.  Brand  told  us  that  Sir 
Thomas  Graham  was  here,  and  desired  him  to  tell  Felix 
that  he  should  be  happy  to  see  him  at  breakfast  the  next 
morning.  This  was  holding  out  the  olive  branch.  Mr. 
B.  advised  Felix  not  to  talk  upon  the  subject  to  General 
Graham.  He  said  that  what  he  had  done  was  certainly 
owing  to  misapprehension,  and  that  he  had  no  intention 
of  hurting  Felix,  and  that  he  knew  his  last  act  before  he 
quitted  Spain  was  to  write  to  Lord  Wellington  recom- 
mending Felix  as  his  first  A.D.C.  at  the  Battle  of  Vittoria, 
for  promotion.  He  therefore  thought  he  had  much  better 
let  the  matter  drop.  Felix  agreed  to  this,  and  went  to 
breakfast  the  next  morning  with  the  General,  who  received 
him  with  his  usual  cordiality,  so  there  the  matter  ends. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  Nov.  5th.  —  We  went  last 
night  to  the  Baroness  Montalembert's.  There  was 
dancing  and  waltzing.  Sir  Thomas  Graham  was  there. 
I  must  say  he  is  no  favourite  of  mine. 

"  Glorious  news  !  Bonaparte  completely  beaten,  but  he 
has  hitherto  escaped  himself.  There  never  were  such 
splendid  victories.  Liepsick  taken,  with  the  King  of 
Saxony  and  his  family  in  it ;  French  Generals  killed  and 
taken  without  number.  The  Saxons  deserted  in  the 
battle  to  the  allies,  and  turned  their  arms  against  the 
French.    There  is  to  be  a  general  illumination  to-night. 

"  November  nth. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  Hunsdon  on 

1  Sir  Augustus  William  James  Clifford,  Bart.,  c.b.,  born  1788. 
A  most  distinguished  naval  officer.  He  was  Admiral  of  the  Red 
1864.  M.P.  for  Bandon  Bridge  1818-20,  for  Dungarvan  1820-22, 
and  again  for  Bandon  Bridge  from  July  23rd,  1831,  to  December  3rd, 
1832.  He  was  nominated  a  C.B.  December  8th,  181 5.  He  was 
appointed  July  25th,  1832,  Gentleman  Usher  of  the  Black  Rod.  On 
various  occasions  between  1843  and  1866  he  acted  as  Deputy  Lord 
Great  Chamberlain  of  England,  in  the  absence  of  Lord  Willoughby 
d'Eresby.  He  died  February  8th,  1877.  Married  October  20th,  181 3, 
Elizabeth,  afterwards  Lady  Elizabeth  Frances  Townshend  ;  she  was 
born  August  2nd,  1789,  and  died  at  Nice  April  10th,  1862.  He  was 
a  patron  of  the  arts,  and  formed  a  unique  collection  of  paintings, 
sculpture,  etchings,  engravings,  and  bijouterie. 


212    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1813 

Saturday.  They  go  on  but  slowly,  but  I  now  see  some 
prospect  of  their  getting  to  the  end  of  it.  The  Drawing 
Room  looks  very  well  with  the  doors  and  windows 
painted  oak. 

"  We  got  the  account  the  day  before  yesterday  of  the 
surrender  of  Pampeluna.  Bony  has  escaped  to  Frankfort. 
I  am  afraid  he  will  certainly  get  safe  back  to  France. 

"  Nov.  2yd,  Brighton. — On  Sunday  I  went  twice  to 
the  Free  Chapel.  Mr.  Marsh  preached  in  the  morning, 
but  not  in  the  evening.  He  is  called  a  Methodist,  but  I 
like  his  preaching  much. 

"  We  hear  of  nothing  but  the  great  news  from  Holland, 
where  there  has  been  a  great  insurrection.  They  have 
drove  the  French  out,  and  have  sent  over  here  for  the 
Prince  of  Orange  and  for  troops  which  are  going  directly. 
General  Graham  paid  me  a  long  visit  on  Saturday.  He 
has  called  four  times  while  he  was  here. 

"  November  29th. — Sir  Thomas  Graham  is  going  out  to 
Holland  as  Commander  in  Chief.  He  has  not  offered  to 
take  Felix,  which  shows  he  is  not  over  cordial  to  him. 
It  does  not,  however,  annoy  Felix  which  I  am  happy  at. 

"  December  6th. — I  dined  in  Marlborough  Row  (with 
my  sister),  and  went  to  my  Mother's  in  the  evening. 

"  On  Friday  I  dined  and  spent  the  evening  at  Lady 
Dunalley's.1  Sir  James  de  Bathe,2  and  a  Miss  Lydia 
White,3  (a  blue  stocking)  dined  there.  A  good  many  came 
in  the  evening. 

1  Henry  Prittie,  ist  Lord  Dunalley,  born  1743,  married  1766 
Catherine,  widow  of  John  Bury,  and  second  daughter  and  co-heiress 
of  Francis  Sadleir  of  Sopwell  Hall,  Co.  Tipperary. 

a  Sir  James  Wynne  de  Bathe,  Bart.,  born  1792,  died,  unmarried, 
1828,  when  the  title  devolved  on  his  brother. 

3  Lydia  Rogers  White  was  the  third  daughter  and  co-heiress  of 
Stephen  White,  a  merchant  of  Bristol,  by  his  wife,  Cecil  Basset,  of 
Miscin,  Glamorganshire.  Lydia,  who  on  the  death  of  her  father 
came  into  a  fortune  of  some  ^1200  per  annum,  lived  for  some  time 
at  the  house  of  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  on  the  terrace  at  Richmond. 
She  later  moved  to  113  Park  Street,  where  she  founded  her  famous 
salon,  and  lived  there  till  her  death  in  1827.  She  often  visited  her 
sister,  Mrs.  Saunderson,  in  Ireland,  which  gave  rise  to  the  belief  that 
she  was  of  Irish  birth.  She  travelled  on  the  Continent  and  visited 
Florence  in  18 16,  Naples  in  18 18,  and  was  at  Venice  in  18 19.    In  1808 


i8i4]  THE  GREAT  FOG  OF  1814  213 

"  December  8th. — The  Prince  of  Orange  has  arrived  in 
Holland,  and  been  proclaimed  Sovereign  Prince  of  the 
Netherlands,  by  the  title  of  William  1st. 

"  December  18th. — Yesterday  I  took  Fanny  to  my 
sister's,  where  there  was  a  very  nice  ball.  There  were 
three  sets  of  Country  Dances,  and  waltzing,  the  former 
of  which  Fanny  partook,  but  of  course  not  the  latter. 

"  I  made  the  acquaintance  on  Thursday  at  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert's  with  Colonel  Robarts  of  the  10th.  He  is  a  very 
pleasing,  gentlemanlike  young  man,  and  I  felt  much 
pleased  at  his  saying,  that  Felix  had  done  a  most  spirited 
and  proper  thing  in  quitting  Sir  Thomas  Graham,  who, 
he  thought,  had  used  him  very  ill. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  December  21st. — Yesterday  we  came 
down  here,  and  found  all  the  children  in  perfect  health, 
and  we  are  all  very  merry  and  pleasant  together.  To-day 
is  a  lovely  day  and  the  frost  is  returned. 

"  Christmas  Day,  1813. — We  were  all  at  church  to- 
day, and,  being  Christmas  Day,  received  the  Sacra- 
ment. 

"  December  29th. — Major  Lake  and  Walter  dined  here 
yesterday.    We  played  at  Loto  in  the  evening. 

"  Brighton,  Jan.  2nd,  1814. — We  were  saluted  in  Lon- 
don by  the  most  horrible  and  extraordinary  fog  I  ever 
saw.  They  had  been  enveloped  in  it  since  Sunday,  and  I 
left  them  yesterday  in  that  state.    On  Friday,  in  spite  of 

she  visited  Sir  Walter  Scott,  and  spent  some  weeks  with  him  at  Abbots- 
ford,  after  which  she  took  a  long  tour  in  the  Highlands.  She  was 
described  by  Scott  as  "  nineteen  times  dyed  blue,  lively  and  clever, 
and  absurd  to  the  uttermost  degree,  but  exceedingly  good-natured." 
During  the  Regency  Lydia  White's  parties  obtained  an  ascendancy 
which  they  never  lost  over  London  society.  At  her  gatherings  in 
Park  Street  were  to  be  met  such  celebrities  as  Sydney  Smith,  Tom 
Moore,  Hallam,  Lord  Ward,  afterwards  Lord  Dudley,  Sir  Roderick 
Murchison,  "  Conversation  "  Sharp,  Sir  John  Copley,  afterwards  the 
famous  Lord  Lyndhurst,  and  such  well-known  ladies  as  Lady  Char- 
lotte Bury,  Mrs.  Siddons,  Miss  Edgeworth,  Mrs.  Morcet,  the  feminine 
expert  in  political  economy,  Mrs.  Somerville.  Amongst  her  friends 
she  numbered  Lord  Byron  and  Bulwer  Lytton.  For  some  years  before 
her  death  she  had  become  bedridden  from  dropsy,  and  had  to  receive 
her  guests  propped  up  on  a  sofa.  She  died  at  her  house  in  Park 
Street  January  28th,  1827.  See  W.  P.  Courtney's  Eight  Friends  of 
the  Great,  page  149. 


214    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

the  fog,1  I  walked  a  little  about,  and  could  not  see  the 
opposite  houses,  and  towards  the  evening  it  was  still 
worse,  the  lamps  giving  no  light,  and  people  running 
against  each  other.  I  was  truly  happy  yesterday  to  get 
safe  out  of  it,  as  there  are  numberless  accidents.  I  went 
into  Felix's  room,  who  was  in  bed,  to  kiss  him,  and  to 
wish  the  dear  boy  many  happy  new  years. 

"  This  place  is  fuller  and  gayer  than  ever — nothing  but 
balls,  waltzing  etc.  I  don't  much  like  the  complexion  of 
things  on  the  Continent.  It  appears  to  me  that  Austria 
is  not  staunch  to  the  good  cause.  Lord  Castlereagh  is  gone 
to  try  and  conciliate  matters. 

"  I  hear  that  when  the  Count  of  Grammont  was  with 
Lord  Wellington's  army,  his  tenantry  in  that  part  of  the 
world  flocked  to  see  him,  and  were  in  transport  at  the 
sight  of  him,  kissed  his  hands,  and  shewing  every  demon- 
stration of  joy.    This  sounds  well. 

"  January  6th. — On  Tuesday  night  '  The  Critic  '  was 
acted  by  Mr.  Brownlow  North,  Mr.  Dangle  ;  Mrs.  Dangle, 
(Miss  Lydia  White),  Sir  Fretful  Plagiary  (Mr.  Douglas), 
and  Puff  (Mr.  Hare).  There  was  afterwards  a  French 
proverb  '  L'Avocat  Chansonnier,'  Baron  Montalembert 
and  Mr.  Douglas  performed  the  best — indeed,  remarkably 
well,  and  I  was  very  much  amused. 

"  It  is  now  blowing  and  snowing  at  a  great  rate,  and 
is  most  completely  disagreeable.  I  am  glad  I  came 
here  when  I  did,  for  had  I  put  off  my  journey  until  now, 
I  don't  think  I  could  have  travelled. 

"  January  10th. — Edmond  and  Fanny  accompanied  me 
to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  where  there  was  partly  a  children's 
ball,  and  then  the  grown  up  girls  danced. 

"  The  allies  have  crossed  the  Rhine  and  have  entered 

1  This  was  one  of  the  worst  fogs  of  the  last  century.  For  several 
days  London  was  enveloped  in  a  darkness  which  might  be  felt,  and 
business  was  almost  entirely  at  a  standstill.  The  Prince  Regent 
set  out  on  a  visit  to  the  Marquis  of  Salisbury  at  Hatfield,  but  after 
an  absence  of  several  hours,  during  which  the  carriages  had  only 
got  as  far  as  Kentish  Town,  and  one  outrider  had  been  deposited 
in  a  ditch,  the  Prince  was  obliged  to  abandon  the  attempt  and  return 
to  Carlton  House  (Bygone  London  Life,  by  G.  L.  Apperson,  i.s.o.). 


i8i4]  THEATRICALS  AT  BRIGHTON  215 

France,  and  it  is  very  generally  believed  that  Monsieur 
is  going  to  France  or  gone. 

"  Miss  Wykeham,1  who  is  a  great  heiress,  has  positively 
refused  Lord  Cranbourne.    All  the  men  are  after  her. 

"  There  has  been  a  grand  piece  of  work  to-night.  My 
sister  is  always  at  home  on  a  Friday.  Baroness  Montalem- 
bert,  although  she  has  a  general  invitation,  chose  to  fix 
a  French  Play  at  her  house.  However,  in  the  midst  of  it 
all,  the  mother  of  one  of  the  performers  died  this  morning, 
which  has  put  an  end  to  the  play,  though  it  does  not  pre- 
vent our,  and  indeed,  everyone  thinking  the  Baroness 
had  behaved  very  ill.  However,  I  recommend  peace  and 
harmony,  though  I  am  of  the  same  opinion,  in  spite  of 
which  I  meant  to  have  gone  to  the  play  for  my  amuse- 
ment. 

"  January  18th. — I  took  Fanny  to  my  sister's  dance. 
I  am  quite  surprised  to  find  how  she  is  admired. 

"  Lord  Cranbourne  is  come  down  on  a  visit  to  Mrs. 
Bertie.  He  was  seen  walking  arm  in  arm  with  Miss 
Wykeham  yesterday  on  the  Steyne.  Everyone  thinks 
they  will  certainly  be  married. 

"  January  28th. — We  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Bertie's  to 
see  the  play.  The  performers  were,  Mr.  Douglas,  Mr. 
Hare,  Lord  Cranbourne,  Mr.  Hoare,  Miss  White,  Lady 
Charlotte  Lindsay,  and  Miss  Wykeham. 

"  Mr.  D.  acted  very  well — Miss  White  tolerably — Lord 
Cranbourne  looked  like  the  footman  he  meant  to  repre- 
sent, but  I  would  not  have  hired  him  ;  he  delivered  his 
messages  so  ill.  I  wonder  whether  Miss  W.  will  engage 
him  for  life.    Her  friends  evidently  wish  it. 

"  The  Dowager  Lady  Lucan  is  dead,  also  Lady  Maria 
Hamilton,  Lord  Abercorn's  only  surviving  daughter  by 
his  first  wife. 

"  Sweden  has  made  peace  with  Denmark,  and  the  latter 
has  given  up  Norway  to  the  former.  We  have  also  made 
peace  with  Denmark.  The  Allies  do  not  seem  to  be  very 
active,  but  Monsieur  is  gone  to  them,  the  Duke  D'An- 

1  Sophia  Elizabeth  Wykeham,  created  Baroness  Wenman  June 
3rd,  1834,  died,  unmarried,  1870. 


216    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

gouleme  to  Lord  Wellington,  and  the  Duke  de  Berri 
(where  is  not  known),  so  we  may  expect  soon  great 
matters.  There  are  accounts  from  different  parts  of  the 
country  of  the  frost  and  snow  which  are  deplorable. 
From  many  parts  the  mails  did  not  arrive,  and  there 
has  not  been  known  such  a  frost  in  the  memory  of  man. 

"  February  2nd. — We  were  at  the  ball  at  Miss  White's 
on  Friday,  and  since  then  at  the  French  Play  at  Baron 
Montalembert's,  and  Lady  Westmoreland  really  acted 
very  well,  as  Clara.  The  Play  was,  *  Les  Deux  Prison- 
niers.'  The  Baron  in  Auguste  was  incomparable.  Lady 
Westmoreland  was  extravagantly  admired. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  February  $th. — I  sent  the 
children  off  from  Brighton  at  seven,  and  we  followed  at 
half  past  eight.  The  first  part  of  the  journey  was  dreadful 
— so  slippery  that  we  were  obliged  to  get  out  and  walk 
often,  and  our  horses  tumbled  down.  However,  we  went 
on  prosperously  until  we  arrived  in  London,  when  we 
found  the  pavement  in  such  a  state  from  the  snow  and 
ice,  that  we  were  three  quarters  of  an  hour  coming  here 
from  the  horse-guards. 

"  I  have  written  to  Monk  at  Waltham  Cross  to  send  us 
horses  tomorrow  if  the  road  is  safe  to  travel. 

"  February  8th. — A  shocking  accident  happened  a 
short  time  ago  to  one  of  Edmond  Knox  *  (Mr.  K.'s 
brother's  children,  a  fine  boy  of  seven  years  old.  The 
nurse  had  had  some  vitriol  in  a  glass  by  her  bedside  to 
apply  for  toothache.  The  child  got  up  in  the  night  and 
drank  it ;  he  died  in  eight  and  forty  hours.  How  much 
to  be  pitied  the  poor  parents  are  ! 

"  There  has  been  a  great  fair  upon  the  Thames,  but  it 
has  been  broken  up  on  account  of  the  thaw. 

"  Yesterday  our  waggon  arrived  from  Town.  It  went 
for  our  Brighton  luggage,  and  they  lost  it.  Fortunately, 
those  sort  of  things  don't  fret  me. 

"  February  13th. — There  is  an  account  in  the  papers  of 
the  Custom  House  being  burnt  to  the  ground.     There 

1  The  Hon.  Edmond  Knox,  Bishop  of  Limerick,  third  son  of  Viscount 
Northland.    He  died  184Q. 


i8i4]  NO  PROSPECT  OF  PEACE  217 

are  great  fears  that  the  Allies  are  going  to  make  peace 
with  Bonaparte.  Funds  are  at  71  in  consequence,  al- 
though the  public  do  not  like  the  idea,  indeed,  we  could 
have  no  expectations  of  its  being  durable.  Byrne  and 
Timewell  are  returned — no  chance  of  our  things  being 
recovered. 

"  February  20th. — The  prospect  of  peace  seems  over 
for  the  present,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  Bonaparte  has  had 
some  victories.  I  am  quite  in  despair  at  it.  Alas  ! 
Felix's  regiment  is  at  Gibraltar,  where  he  must  soon  go 
to  join  it. 

"  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  February  26th. — I  have 
driven  out  every  morning  with  my  sister.  Lady  Georgina 
Spencer  is  going  to  be  married  to  Lord  Quin. 

"  The  Allies  have  fallen  back,  and  Bonaparte  has 
certainly  been  several  times  successful,  though  he  cer- 
tainly exaggerates  his  successes.  I  think  Felix  has  at 
last  got  well,  and  this  reconciles  me  more  to  the  idea  of 
his  going  out  to  Gibraltar.  He  only  waits  for  a  passage. 
Lord  Cassilis's  eldest  son,  barely  nineteen  is  going  to  be 
married  to  a  Miss  Allardice,1  a  Scotch  heiress.  I  hear  that 
she  is  very  ugly,  but  that  her  riches  are  countless,  so  I 
dare  to  say  his  parents  made  up  the  match.  I  think  it  is 
a  thousand  pities  !  I  hear  he  is  a  very  handsome,  pleasing 
boy,  but  quite  a  boy. 

"  The  papers  bring  very  unpleasant  accounts.  Bona- 
parte has  got  to  Troyes,  and  the  Allies  have  retired. 
Everything  now  seems  to  favour  him.  Alas  !  I  fear  his 
spell  of  good  fortune  is  not  over  ! 

"  March  14th. — Lord  Balgonie  2  dined  in  Grosvenor 
Street  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Saturday.  He  is  a  good- 
humoured,  pleasing  young  man,  but  seems  in  bad  health. 

1  Eleanor,  only  daughter  and  heiress  of  Alexander  Allardyce, 
m.p.,  of  Dunnottar,  by  Hannah,  daughter  of  Alexander  Innes,  of 
Cowie.  She  married  May  ist,  1814,  Lord  Cassilis,  eldest  son  of  the 
1st  Marquess  of  Ailsa.     They  both  died  1832,  in  his  father's  lifetime. 

2  Eldest  son  of  Lord  Leven  and  Melville,  born  1785.  He  was 
a  shipmate  of  Edmond  Knox,  with  whom  he  kept  up  a  lifelong  friend- 
ship. He  succeeded  his  father  as  10th  Earl,  married  1820,  and  died 
in  i860. 


218    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

"  My  sister  and  I  went  to  levy  a  fine  before  Sir  William 
Garrod  on  the  Welsh  estate  which  has  produced  by  the 
sale,  £20,000  each  to  my  sister  and  me. 

"  Nothing  is  talked  of  but  the  fraud  on  the  Stock 
Exchange. 

"  I  saw  Limerick  in  town.  He  said  that  poor  William, 
in  his  letters,  had  expressed  himself  in  terms  of  grati- 
tude to  Felix,  who  he  says  found  him  out,  and  actually 
saved  him  from  starving.  He  has  got  four  of  Glent- 
worth's  children  with  him.  Glentworth  has  been  behaving 
very  ill  to  him,  and  they  are  at  daggers  drawn.  He  and 
Lady  G.  and  their  youngest  child  are  in  Ireland. 

"  March  igth. — Bony  has  been  beaten  by  Bliicher.  The 
Tower  guns  were  fired.  General  Graham  has  been  beat 
in  an  attack  on  Bergenopzoom.  We  have  lost  a  terrible 
number  of  men,  among  them  poor  Mr.  James  Macdonald. 
It  seems  to  have  been  a  rash  attempt  of  Sir  Thomas. 
Major  Stanhope  has  come  home  with  the  despatches. 
Felix  writes  me  word  he  had  been  at  the  Duke  of  York's 
levee,  who  said  nothing  to  him,  but  asked  him  when  he 
went.  It  seems  like  a  hint.  However,  he  has  as  yet  heard 
nothing  of  a  passage. 

"  Miss  Acklom  is  going  to  be  married  to  Lord  Althorp,1 
Lord  Spencer's  eldest  son,  and  they  are  delighted  at  the 
match,  and  Lady  S.  says  she  has  been  '  so  well  educated 
on  the  Continent.'  Heaven  preserve  me  from  so  well 
educated  a  daughter-in-law. 

"  We  have  heard  that  Lord  Wellington  has  had  a  great 
victory,  and  since  that,  has  got  possession  of  Bordeaux, 
and  they  have  there  hoisted  the  white  cockade,  pro- 
claimed the  Bourbons,  and  torn  down  the  eagles  etc. 
However,  whether  there  will  be  peace  or  war,  whether 
the  Allies  are  staunch  or  not,  seems  to  be  involved  in 
perfect  obscurity.    It  is  a  most  anxious  crisis,  especially 

1  John  Charles,  Viscount  Althorp,  married  April  14th,  1814,  Esther, 
only  daughter  and  heiress  of  Richard  Acklom  of  Wiseton  Hall,  Notting- 
hamshire. He  was  a  distinguished  Member  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  was  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  from  1830  to  1834.  He  succeeded 
his  father  as  3rd  Earl  Spencer  November  10th,  1834.    He  d.s.p.  1845. 


i8i4]        THE  DUCHESS  OF  OLDENBURGH         219 

for  those  who  have  sons  and  husbands  engaged.  The 
Duchess  of  Oldenburgh,  sister  to  the  Emperor  of  Russia, 
is  arrived  in  London.  She  lives  in  the  Pulteney  Hotel, 
Piccadilly.1  She  has  the  whole  of  it,  and  people  say  pays 
£500  a  week  for  it.  I  think  that  impossible.  Report  gives 
her  in  marriage  to  the  Duke  of  Clarence.  The  Royal 
Family  are  very  attentive  to  her,  and  indeed,  they  are 
very  right.  It  is  said  she  has  unbounded  influence  with 
her  brother,  the  Emperor. 

"  April  gth. — We  saw  dear  Felix  on  arriving  in  Grosve- 
nor  Street,  who  met  us  with  the  good  news  that  Bony's 
troops  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Paris  had  been  beaten  ; 
that  Paris  had  capitulated,  and  the  Allies,  headed  by  the 
Emperor  of  Russia  and  King  of  Prussia  had  entered  it. 
The  Tower  guns  had  fired,  and  everyone  was  in  the 
highest  spirits.  This  morning  we  have  the  additional  of 
the  Senate  having  dethroned  Bonaparte.  Tallyrand  and 
others  of  his  friends  had  arranged  it. 

"  The  fish  women  had  waited  upon  the  Emperor  of 
Russia  and  presented  him  with  a  nose-gay,  and  begged 
for  the  Bourbons.  Particulars  are  not  yet  known  on  the 
head  of  the  Bourbons,  but  we  suppose  they  will  be  re- 
established. What  delightful  news  !  We  are  all  in 
ecstacies  ! 

u  February  15th. — We  hear  that  Bonaparte  has  sub- 
mitted to  the  decree,  and  has  signed  his  abdication.  We 
can  scarce  believe  it  possible  that  we  are  going  to  have 
peace  and  quiet,  and  an  end  to  Bonaparte's  horrors  and 
dominion.  He  is  to  retire  to  Elba.  I  own  I  would 
rather  there  was  an  end  of  him.  I  dread  his  starting 
up  again.  Everybody  seems  to  despise  Bony  for  his 
submission. 

"  Sunday,  April  lyth. — To  our  agreeable  surprise 
Edmond  Knox  arrived.    He  is  just  arrived  from  taking 

1  Originally  known  as  Barrymore  House,  having  been  built  in 
1780  by  Novosielski  for  the  Earl  of  Barrymore.  After  a  fire  had 
occurred  there,  the  place  was  repaired  and  opened  as  the  Old  Pulteney 
Hotel,  and  it  was  here  that  the  Emperor  of  Russia  stayed  in  1814 
{Wanderings  in  Piccadilly). 


220    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1814 

the  Duke  de  Berri  *  to  Cherbourg,  where  he  was  most 
enthusiastically  received.  Edmond  likes  him  very  much. 
He  spent  two  very  pleasant  days  at  Cherbourg.  Poor 
fellow,  he  brought  Fanny  and  me  and  his  own  family 
presents  of  lace.  I  was  quite  vexed  he  had  spent  so  much 
money,  but  he  would  have  been  quite  hurt  had  I  not  at 
last  accepted  it.  Miss  Acklom  and  Lord  Althorp  were 
married  last  Wednesday  ! 

"  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Warre  and  Jack  Warre,  my  sister  and 
all  her  family  left  me  to-day.  They  all  expressed  to  have 
been  most  highly  pleased  with  their  party,  which  was 
very  gratifying.  How  much  I  like  Mrs.  Warre  !  She  is 
a  charming  woman,  and  I  flatter  myself  she  likes  me. 
Jack  is  also  a  great  favourite  of  mine.  Mr.  Thomas  Warre 
is  an  amiable  good  soul,  but  I  think  in  very  indifferent 
health.    I  like  also  Lord  Balgonie  very  much. 

"  April  29th. — The  papers  are  full  of  Louis  i8th's  en- 
trance into  London.  He  left  it  yesterday  for  Dover  to  em- 
bark. The  Regent  has  paid  him  the  compliment  of  going 
with  him  to  the  water-side.  The  Duke  of  Clarence  takes 
him  across  the  water.2 

"  May  1st. — I  received  a  letter  to-day  from  my  beloved 
Felix,  dated  Friday,  Portsmouth,  saying  he  had  received 
orders  to  embark  in  the  Eurotas  and  proceed  to  Gibraltar. 
He  wrote  in  high  spirits  at  going  with  Edmond,  who  takes 
out  Admiral  Fleming  to  Gibraltar,  and  he  says  he  antici- 
pates a  delightful  passage,  as  he  is  sure  Admiral  Fleming 
will  like  to  stop  at  Cherbourg  and  Bordeaux.  He  says, 
thank  God,  he  is  in  perfect  health.  This  letter  was  a 
great  blow  to  me,  as  I  had  flattered  myself  all  idea  of  his 

1  The  Due  de  Berri  returned  to  France  in  the  Eurotas,  of  which 
Captain  Knox  took  command  on  March  29th,  18 14.  The  batteries 
and  shipping  there  hoisted  the  white  flag  and  fired  salutes,  and,  as 
soon  as  the  Eurotas  had  anchored,  a  barge  came  alongside  to  convey 
the  Due  de  Berri  on  shore.  He  was  assassinated,  at  the  Opera  House 
in  Paris,  February  13th,  1820. 

2  Louis  XVIII  left  his  retreat  at  Hartwell  on  April  20th,  and 
reached  his  capital  on  May  3rd,  to  find  it  occupied  by  foreign  armies, 
and  to  discover  that  his  French  escort,  composed  of  Napoleon's  Old 
Guard,  was  of  doubtful  loyalty  (The  Political  History  of  England, 
G.  C.  Brodrick  and  T.  K.  Fotheringham). 


i8i4]  BUONAPARTE  GOES  TO  ELBA  221 

going  to  that  odious  Gibraltar  was  at  an  end.  It  is  sup- 
posed the  29th  will  proceed  to  America,  in  which  case 
he  will  not  have  long  to  stay  at  Gibraltar. 

"  Thomas  Knox  is  at  Paris.  They  have  had  two  letters 
from  him.  He  does  not  seem  to  think  the  Parisians  very 
warm  for  the  Bourbons  or  well  affected  to  the  cause.  I  hope 
sincerely  he  is  mistaken.  The  papers  are  full  of  Louis's 
entrance  into  Paris,  and  of  his  fine  reception.  Bonaparte 
has  set  off  for  Elba.  The  Empress  is  now  Duchess  of 
Parma.  They  have  set  off  for  Germany.  I  own  I  have 
my  fears  we  shall  see  Bonaparte  one  of  these  days  again 
formidable.  However,  I  shall  be  very  happy  to  have 
my  opinion  to  be  proved  erroneous. 

"  Tuesday,  10th. — Mr.  C.  is  gone  to  Town  to-day.  He 
means  to  go  to  the  Prince's  levee  to-morrow. 

"  Lord  Wellington  is  made  Duke  of  Wellington  ;  Sir 
Thomas  Graham,  Lord  Lynedoch. 

"  I  hear  Miss  Pole  writes  word  that  it  is  not  the  fashion 
at  Paris  to  talk  with  unmarried  women.  She  danced  at  a 
ball  with  the  Emperor  of  Russia  who  did  not  speak  one 
word  to  her,  but  when  he  had  done  dancing,  handed  her 
to  her  mother,  to  whom  he  talked  away. 

"  Thomas  tells  me  Lady  Catherine  Gordon  *  is  to  be 
married  to  Mr.  Cavendish.  He  is  but  twenty.  Early 
marriages  are  the  fashion.  Lord  Cassilis's  son,  not 
twenty,  is  just  married  to  a  Miss  Allardice,  a  great  heiress. 
John  saw  Lady  Althorpe  in  her  box  at  the  Opera  one 
night.  She  seemed  very  glad  to  see  him,  and  talked  a 
long  time  with  him.  I  hear  Lady  Spencer  cries  from 
morning  till  night." 

1  Lady  Catherine  Susan  Gordon,  eldest  daughter  of  George,  9th 
Marquess  of  Huntley,  k.t.,  married  June  16th,  18 14,  Hon.  Charles 
Compton  Cavendish,  fourth  son  of  George,  1st  Earl  of  Burlington. 
He  was  created  Lord  Chesham  January  15th,  1858. 


CHAPTER   XVII 


Foreign  politics — Unpopularity  of  the  Regent — Proposed  mar- 
riage of  Princess  Charlotte — Mrs.  Fitzherbert  still  beautiful — 
A  crowded  Drawing-room — Death  of  Josephine — An  injured 
woman — Princess  Charlotte  shows  her  spirit — The  gallant 
Bliicher — Trial  of  Lord  Cochrane — Splendid  fete  at  White's 
— Lord  Cochrane 's  terrible  sentence — Thanksgiving  Day — 
Carlton  House  in  its  glory — Ovation  to  the  Duke  of  Welling- 
ton— London  festivities. 


May  iSth,  1814. 

ON  arriving  in  Upper  Grosvenor  Street  from 
Hunsdon,  Mrs.  Calvert  found  a  large  "  dinner 
company "  assembled,  and  foreign  politics 
were  freely  discussed. 

"  The  accounts  from  Paris  are  not  pleasant ;  there 
seems  to  be  a  great  spirit  of  insubordination  in  the  Senate, 
the  army  and  the  people  seem  to  be  pulling  different  ways, 
and  unless  things  are  greatly  exaggerated,  the  Royal 
Family  are  infinitely  to  be  pitied.  Bonaparte  has  arrived 
at  Elba,  in  spite  of  many  ridiculous  reports  which  have 
been  circulated  to  the  contrary.  It  was  said  that  he 
would  not  be  received  at  Elba,  that  he  was  gone  to 
Gibraltar,  about  to  come  to  England  etc.,  etc.  Surely 
party  spirit  never  ran  higher  than  it  does  in  London  at 
the  present  moment.  The  opposition  are  really  scanda- 
lous in  their  conduct  and  gross  abuse  of  the  Regent. 
Just  at  present  there  is  a  terrible  work  about  a  fete  which 
is  to  be  given  by  White's  Club.  The  Prince  wishes  to  ex- 
clude the  Princess  of  Wales,  and  she  is  determined  to  go, 
and  in  spite  of  the  rule  that  tickets  were  not  to  be  trans- 

222 


i8i4]  A  PROPOSED  MARRIAGE  223 

ferable,  she  has  had  five  presented  to  her  by  Lord  Sefton.1 
One  never  hears  the  same  story  twice.  Mr.  Holmes  has 
just  told  me  that  if  the  Princess  goes,  the  Prince  will  not 
be  present,  nor  will  the  Emperor  of  Russia,  the  King  of 
Prussia  etc.,  who  are  expected,  and  if  so  the  whole  thing 
will  be  spoilt. 

"  I  have  been  to  see  a  picture  on  porcelain  of  Bona- 
parte, reckoned  extremely  like  him  ;  a  very  interesting 
but  anxious  countenance. 

"  Lord  Longford,  a  brother  of  the  Duchess  of  Welling- 
ton, has  made  me  very  happy  by  saying  that  not  only  the 
whole  army  in  Spain,  but  the  Duke  of  Wellington  himself 
were  indignant  at  Lord  Lynedoch's  sending  Colonel  Hare 
with  the  despatches  instead  of  Felix  :  he  spoke  in  the 
most  flattering  terms  of  him,  and  said  how  highly  he  was 
thought  of  in  the  Army. 

"  On  Friday  I  went  to  a  great  assembly  at  the 
Marchioness  of  Stafford's.  The  Prince  Regent  was  very 
gracious  and  kind.  He  told  me  I  had  grown  very  fat,  in- 
deed I  have  been  told  this  before,  I  believe  the  present 
fashion  of  puffy  (or  as  they  call  them  Bishop)  sleeves, 
helps  to  make  me  look  so. 

"  The  Prince  of  Orange  enquired  after  Felix,  and  I 
said,  *  Sir,  he  did  not  come  with  the  despatches.'  '  No,' 
said  he,  '  I  know  he  did  not,  but  I  told  you  it  was  his 
turn,  and  I  was  right.' 

"  A  great  deal  of  tracasserie  goes  on  about  this  ball  at 
White's  and  another  at  Boodle's.  A  foolish  ball  is 
made  a  complete  party  business,  right  or  wrong,  how- 
ever, I  side  with  the  Prince.  Various  reports  are  circu- 
lated as  to  the  marriage  of  the  Prince  of  Orange  and 
Princess  Charlotte.  Some  say  she  will  not  have  him 
unless  it  is  guaranteed  by  Parliament  that  she  is  to  live 
nine  months  of  the  year  in  England  and  only  three  in 
Holland.  Others  say  that  the  Duchess  of  Oldenburgh 
has  talked  so  much  of  her  brother  Prince  Nicholas  (who  is 
only  sixteen  but  transcendently  handsome)  that  Princess 

1  William  Philip  Molyneux,  2nd  Earl  of  Sefton. 


224    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1814 

Charlotte  is  determined  to  see  him  before  irrevocably 
engaging  herself.  Another  story  is,  Miss  Mercer  Elphin- 
stone,  Lord  Keith's  daughter,  who  is  a  dear  friend  of 
the  Princess  but  a  violent  democrat,  is  doing  her  best  to 
break  off  the  match.  Some  hitch  there  evidently  is,  but 
what  the  real  truth  may  be,  it  is  impossible  to  say.  At 
Lady  Clermont's  yesterday  I  met  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  look- 
ing really  beautiful. 

"  May  20th. — I  am  going  to  the  Drawing-room  next 
Thursday,  having  routed  out  some  black  things,  as  Lord 
Hamilton  is  dead,  and  I  must  go  in  mourning.  The  Queen 
has  written  to  the  Princess  of  Wales  to  request  that  she 
will  not  come  to  the  Drawing-room,  as  the  Regent  will 
never  meet  her  in  public  or  private. 

"  The  Princess  of  Wales's  answer  to  this  letter  was  very 
spirited.  She  wrote  to  the  Queen,  consenting  to  her  re- 
quest, but  insisting  on  her  right  to  be  present,  and  the 
whole  correspondence  appeared  in  the  newspapers.  The 
Drawing-room  was  extremely  hot  and  crowded. 

"  All  the  different  branches  of  the  Royal  Family  were 
present,  the  Duchess  of  Oldenburgh  and  her  attendants, 
Countess  Lieven  etc.,  Princess  Charlotte  stood  near  the 
door  and  looked  extremely  well.  The  Queen  was  very 
gracious  in  her  manner  and  so  were  the  Princesses  Augusta 
and  Mary.  I  had  not  seen  Princess  Augusta  for  years, 
and  she  received  me  quite  affectionately.  She  told  me 
she  had  often  enquired  for  me,  and  that  she  was  so  glad 
to  hear  such  a  delightfully  amiable  character  of  my 
daughter,  and  that  she  had  such  a  fine  boy.  She  told  me 
that  Eliza  (so  she  called  Princess  Elizabeth)  had  given  her 
a  message  from  me  last  year,  when  I  enquired  about  her 
at  Carlton  House.  In  the  meantime  I  had  lost  Fanny  in 
the  crowd,  and  was  in  great  distress,  as  they  were  going  to 
sweep  me,  as  well  as  the  rest,  out  of  the  Presence  Chamber. 
I  told  the  Regent  my  dilemma,  and  in  the  kindest  way 
he  made  me  stand  close  to  him,  so  that  I  might  not  be 
sent  away  till  Fanny  was  found,  which  she  was  not  for 
some  minutes.  He  shook  me  by  the  hand  two  or  three 
times  and  enquired  for  '  Nicolson  '  as  he  calls  Mr.  C.    He 


i8i4]  DEATH  OF  JOSEPHINE  225 

had  been  obliged  to  leave  town  yesterday  as  Mr.  Coke  of 
Norfolk  was  expected  at  Hunsdon. 

"  The  Duchess  of  Oldenburgh  is,  I  think,  a  very 
pleasing,  intelligent  looking  woman.  She  has  thick  lips, 
and  a  little  the  look  of  a  Calmuck,  but  I  think  her  appear- 
ance much  to  be  liked,  and  I  hear,  that  in  point  of  under- 
standing she  is  a  most  superior  woman. 

"  I  chaperoned  the  Robinsons  that  night  to  Lady 
Hampden's  and  met  Lord  Burghersh  there,  just  arrived 
from  Paris.  He  told  me  that  the  Emperor  etc.,  will  be 
here  on  Monday  or  Tuesday,  the  preliminaries  of  peace 
being  signed.  Poor  Josephine  is  dead  (how  I  wish  it  had 
been  her  husband  Bony  instead  !)  some  say  that  she  was 
poisoned,  but  most  people  seem  to  think  that  she  died 
from  a  sore  throat. 

"  Yesterday  there  was  a  mob  hired  to  hiss  the  Prince 
of  Wales.  Limerick,  who  mingled  among  them,  says  that 
he  never  saw  such  a  set  of  ragamuffins,  evidently  hired  for 
the  purpose. 

'  The  Princess  of  Wales  (by  way  of  making  a  row) 
went  last  night  to  the  Play.  She  was  received  with  great 
applause  ;  they  called  for  God  Save  the  King,  and  cheers 
for  an  injured  woman.  To-day  Mr.  Paul  Methuen  brings 
forward  a  motion  to  address  the  Regent,  and  enquire  why 
he  excluded  the  Princess  from  the  Drawing-room.  I 
think  it  very  impudent  of  him  to  interfere  between  man 
and  wife  ;  I  dare  say  that  the  Regent  had  good  reasons 
for  what  he  did,  though  it  is  to  be  lamented  from  the 
commotion  it  has  occasioned. 

"  May  25th. — Yesterday  I  chaperoned  Fanny  Knox  to 
a  large  assembly  at  Lady  Bridgewater's.  I  think  the 
Prince  of  Orange  remarkably  pleasing.  I  understand  that 
the  marriage  is  soon  to  take  place,  and  that  he  is  the 
Princess  Charlotte's  own  choice.  The  Regent,  feeling 
how  unhappy  he  had  been  in  his  own  marriage,  would  not 
control  her,  but  told  her  to  choose  out  of  all  the  different 
Princes  she  could  marry,  and  her  choice  fell  on  the  Prince 
of  Orange,  who  is,  I  believe,  most  worthy  of  the  distinc- 
tion.    Mr.  Methuen's  motion  is  withdrawn  as  all  the 


226    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1814 

moderate  opposition  were  against  it.  Mr.  Whi thread  as 
usual  very  violent,  and  that  noisy  Mr.  Giles  declaiming 
loudly  against  the  Regent,  which  does  not  improve  my 
opinion  of  either  of  them. 

"Lady  Winchester  told  me,  that  on  Thursday,  when 
the  Queen  and  Princesses  and  Princess  Charlotte  dined 
at  Carlton  House,  the  Prince  Paul  of  Wurtemburg,  from 
motives  of  pure  ill  nature,  made  a  set  at  the  Prince  of 
Orange  trying  to  make  him  drunk.  He  succeeded  in  this 
mischievous  attempt  and  the  Prince  had  to  be  taken  home 
in  his  carriage  by  Lord  Liverpool.  The  Prince  Regent 
was  very  angry,  and  when  the  Prince  of  Wurtemburg 
went  up  to  speak  to  Princess  Charlotte  she  drew  herself  up 
indignantly  and  said,  '  Sir,  I  don't  wish  to  have  anything 
to  say  to  you.'  The  Prince  Regent  was  much  pleased  at 
her  showing  this  spirit. 

"  June  6th. — I  had  a  good  many  visitors  yesterday, 
amongst  the  rest  Lady  Charlemont,  who  I  really  think 
the  prettiest  creature  there  ever  was. 

"  Old  Blucher  was  dining  at  Paris  in  company  with 
Lady  Burghersh  and  the  Duke  of  Wellington  and  made 
this  speech,  a  propos  of  what  I  don't  know  : 

"  *  J'aime  le  Due  de  Wellington  et  je  respecte  Lady 
Burghersh.  Voila  ce  que  dit  ma  bouche.  Mais  mon  cceur 
dit  au  contraire.  J'aime  Lady  Burghersh  et  je  respecte 
le  Due  de  Wellington,' — a  very  neatly  turned  compliment. 
I  hear  the  Emperor  etc.,  are  landed,  terrible  gloomy 
weather  for  them. 

"  June  10th. — On  Tuesday  we  spent  all  the  morning 
at  Mr.  North's  house  in  Whitehall,  hoping  to  see  the 
foreign  potentates,  but  they  disappointed  us  by  slipping 
in  incog.  To-day  they  are  all  gone  out  of  town  to  Ascot 
Races.1  The  only  person  I  have  seen  is  Blucher  on  Lady 
Castlereagh's  balcony,  a  fine  looking  old  man  with  a  bald 
head. 

1  The  Tsar  of  Russia  and  the  King  of  Prussia,  having  accepted 
an  invitation  from  the  Prince  Regent,  landed  at  Dover,  and  were 
afterwards  received  with  the  utmost  enthusiasm  in  London  (The 
Political  History  of  England). 


i8i4]  TRIAL  OF  LORD  COCHRANE  227 

"  At  Lady  Charleville's  we  had  some  very  good 
singing,  Naldi *  and  the  other  Italians.  I  hear  there 
are  to  be  2000  at  the  Fete  at  Carlton  House,  so  I 
think  I  have  some  chance  of  being  invited.  Yesterday 
after  church  we  went  to  Kensington  Gardens,  the  day 
was  lovely  and  we  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the  Em- 
peror of  Russia,  who  is  fair  and  not  ill  looking,  he  was 
dressed  in  scarlet  regimentals.  Lady  Salisbury  had  a 
party  last  night,  at  which  they  all  were,  but  she  was  un- 
kind enough  not  to  ask  me.  I  don't  go  to  parties  of  a 
Sunday,  but  to  see  these  great  personages  I  really  would 
for  once  have  gone. 

"  June  16th. — Lord  Cochrane  and  Mr.  Cochrane  John- 
stone are  found  guilty  of  the  fraud  on  the  Stock  Exchange. 
It  is  a  most  dreadful  disgrace  ;  many  people  think  Lord 
Cochrane  innocent,  but  he  will  however,  have  the  dis- 
grace of  punishment.  It  is  supposed  that  they  will  be  ex- 
pelled from  the  House,  and  Lord  Cochrane  deprived  of 
his  ribbon,  which  means  that  his  spurs  will  be  sawn  off 
by  the  King's  Cook.2 

1  Naldi,  once  a  lawyer  at  Bologna,  became  a  celebrated  buffo 
singer,  and  spent  many  seasons  in  London,  where  he  was  a  great 
favourite.  He  was  killed  at  his  friend  Garcia's  in  Paris  (1821)  by  the 
accidental  explosion  of  an  apparatus  used  for  cooking  by  steam. 

2  Lord  Cochrane  towards  the  end  of  18 13  was  nominated  flag- 
captain  to  the  Tennant,  the  flagship  of  his  uncle,  Sir  Alexander  For- 
rester Inglis  Cochrane,  g.c.b.,  who  had  been  appointed  to  the  Command- 
in-Chief  on  the  North  American  station.  The  Tennant  not  being 
ready,  Sir  Alexander  went  out  to  America  in  a  frigate,  leaving  his 
nephew  to  equip  and  bring  out  his  flagship.  While  engaged  in  fitting 
out  the  Tennant,  Lord  Cochrane  had  recommended  to  him  as  a  skilled 
rifle  instructor  and  pyrotechnist  one  Captain  de  Berenger,  a  French 
refugee  and  officer  in  one  of  the  foreign  regiments.  There  is  no  reason 
to  doubt  that  de  Berenger  was  fully  qualified  for  this  post,  but  he 
was  an  unscrupulous  adventurer  gifted  with  boundless  impudence. 
On  February  20th,  18 14,  while  at  Dover,  he  sent  word  to  the  Admiral 
at  Deal  (whence  the  news  was  brought  to  London)  that  he  was  Lord 
Cathcart's  aide-de-camp,  and  was  the  bearer  of  news  from  Paris 
to  the  effect  that  Bonaparte  had  been  killed,  that  the  Allies  were  in 
full  march  on  Paris,  and  that  immediate  peace  was  certain.  The  funds 
rose  suddenly,  and  then  fell  ;  out  of  the  fluctuations  one  of  Lord 
Cochrane's  uncles,  Colonel  Andrew  Cochrane  Johnstone,  netted,  it  was 
said,  a  very  large  sum.  De  Berenger  meanwhile  posted  up  to  London, 
and  drove  to  Lord  Cochrane's  house  in  Green  Street,  changing  on 
his  way  from  the  scarlet  coat  of  a  staff  officer  to  his  own  green  coat 


228    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1814 

"  The  Duke  of  Rutland  has  lost  his  only  son  of  ten 
months  old,  at  whose  Christening  there  was  such  a  work, 
the  Regent  standing  in  person. 

"  June  22nd. — Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  at  Mr.  Robinson's 
and  met  Lord  and  Lady  Kingston,  Lord  and  Lady  Gage, 
Lord  and  Lady  Ashbrook,  Lord  Kilworth  and  Lord  Clif- 
den.  In  the  evening  came  Lord  Mount  Cashel  and  his 
beautiful  daughter  Lady  Jane  Moore.1  Lady  Ashbrook 
played  on  the  harp.  I  never  heard  anyone  play  so  de- 
lightfully as  she  does,  the  sounds  she  brings  out  are  quite 
divine.  On  Saturday  I  went  with  my  sister,  her  Fanny 
and  my  Fanny  to  see  the  procession  to  Guildhall  where 

of  a  rifleman,  and  in  Green  Street  again  changing  into  plain  clothes, 
which  he  borrowed  from  Lord  Cochrane.  He  was  traced  to  Green 
Street,  and  Lord  Cochrane  thus  learning  that  he  was  the  perpetrator 
of  a  swindle,  gave  information  that  led  to  his  arrest.  De  Berenger, 
Johnstone,  and  with  them  Lord  Cochrane,  were  all  apprehended  and 
brought  to  trial.  The  case  of  Lord  Cochrane,  who  knew  absolutely 
nothing  of  the  affair,  was  mixed  up  with  that  of  the  other  two,  who 
were  undoubtedly  guilty  ;  all  three  were,  however,  convicted,  and 
Lord  Cochrane  was  sentenced  to  stand  in  the  pillory  for  an  hour, 
to  pay  a  fine  of  ^1000,  and  to  be  imprisoned  in  the  King's  Bench  prison 
for  a  year.  The  standing  in  the  pillory  was  remitted,  on  account  of 
his  fellow-Member  for  Westminster,  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  announcing 
his  intention  of  standing  with  him,  and  the  Government  feared  a  riot  ; 
but  his  name  was  removed  from  the  Navy  List  (June  25th)  ;  he  was 
expelled  from  the  House  of  Commons  (July  5th),  and,  with  every 
possible  indignity,  from  the  number  of  the  Knights  of  the  Bath. 
Within  a  few  days  of  his  being  expelled  from  the  House  of  Commons 
he  was  enthusiastically  returned  by  Westminster,  the  electors  in  a 
mass  meeting  passing  a  unanimous  resolution  that  he  "  was  perfectly 
innocent  of  the  Stock  Exchange  fraud,  and  that  he  was  a  fit  and 
proper  person  to  represent  their  city  in  parliament,  and  that  his 
re-election  should  be  secured  without  any  expense  to  him."  He,  how- 
ever, had  to  undergo  his  term  of  imprisonment,  which,  after  he  had 
escaped  and  been  recaptured,  was  made  cruelly  severe.  On  June  20th, 
18 1 5,  he  was  told  that,  the  term  having  expired,  he  would  be  set  at 
liberty  on  paying  the  fine  of  ^1000.  On  July  3rd  he  reluctantly  ac- 
cepted his  liberty,  paying  the  fine  with  a  bank-note,  on  the  back  of 
which  he  wrote  :  "  My  health  having  suffered  by  long  and  close 
confinement,  and  my  oppressors  being  resolved  to  deprive  me  of 
property  or  life,  I  submit  to  robbery  to  protect  myself  from  murder, 
in  the  hope  I  shall  live  to  bring  the  delinquents  to  justice."  This  note 
is  still  preserved  at  the  Bank  of  England. 

1  She  married  June  17th,  18 19,  the  Right  Hon.  William  Yates 
Peel,  p.c,  m.p.,  brother  of  Sir  Robert  Peel,  Bart.  She  died  September 
5th,   1847. 


i8i4]  SPLENDID  FETE  AT  WHITE'S  229 

the  Regent  and  all  the  potentates  were  going  to  dine.  It 
certainly  is  a  fine  sight,  but  not  worth  sitting  several 
hours  stuck  on  benches  at  a  window.  I  am  sorry  to  say 
the  Regent  was  hissed,  and  some  say  even  pelted  at 
Temple  Bar.  On  Monday  there  was  a  Grand  Review  in 
the  Park,  the  Regent  and  all  the  potentates  being  present. 
We  all  dined  early  at  my  sister's,  and  dressed  there  for 
White's  ball  at  Burlington  House.  I  wore  violet  coloured 
satin,  richly  trimmed  with  gold,  feathers  and  diamonds. 
We  went  about  nine  o'clock  and  found  the  house  and 
courtyard  brilliantly  illuminated,  one  seemed  to  drive 
into  a  blaze  of  light.  The  rooms  were  all  temporary  ones, 
and  quite  beautiful,  the  ball  room  hung  with  pink  calico, 
not  many  lamps,  but  waxlights  in  beautiful  chandeliers. 
There  were  twelve  stewards  with  black  wands,  and 
Limerick  was  one  of  them.  About  eleven  the  Regent 
arrived,  God  save  the  King  was  played,  and  the  stewards 
cleared  the  way,  and  formed  a  lane  along  which  the  pro- 
cession passed.  It  would  be  impossible  to  describe  all 
the  Princes  and  Grandees  of  different  nations  who  were 
present.  The  Emperor  of  Russia  is  a  fine-looking  man 
and  seems  good  humored  and  lively.  He  danced  country 
dances  and  waltzes.  The  King  of  Prussia  looks  grave, 
melancholy,  and  interesting.  They  say  he  has  never  re- 
covered the  death  of  his  wife.  He  walked  about  scarcely 
talking  to  anyone,  his  eyes  wandering  about,  but  ap- 
parently resting  on  no  one.  He  seemed  to  enjoy  nothing. 
His  brother  and  two  sons  were  there,  the  latter  good 
looking  boys  of  seventeen  or  eighteen."  * 

Frederick  William  III.  of  Prussia  succeeded  to  the 
throne  in  1797,  having  married  in  1793  Louise  of  Meck- 
lenburg-Strelitz,  who  was  niece  to  our  Queen  Charlotte 
and  born  in  1776.  Her  portrait,  by  Gustav  Richter,  at 
Cologne,  represents  her  as  a  very  lovely  woman,  and  she 
was  as  good  as  she  was  beautiful.     After  the  disastrous 

1  The  younger  son,  Prince  William,  born  1797,  was  afterwards 
William  I,  King  of  Prussia  and  German  Emperor. 


230    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

wars  with  Napoleon,  and  his  shameless  attacks  on  her 
character,  came  the  Peace  of  Tilsit.  The  extortionate 
treaty  was  signed,  and  Queen  Louise,  broken  in  spirit, 
returned  to  Memel.  While  on  a  visit  to  her  father  she 
died  in  1810  after  a  short  illness,  greatly  beloved  and  re- 
gretted. 

"  I  was  introduced  to  Plat  off,1  and  we  shook  hands. 
Blucher  made  me  three  bows  while  I  was  talking  to  the 
Regent.  He  does  not  look  so  old  as  I  thought ;  they  say 
he  is  a  debauched  old  fellow. 

"  Now  that  I  have  seen  her  close,  I  think  the  Duchess 
of  Oldenburgh  very  ugly.  She  has  the  features  of  a 
negress,  with  a  very  white  skin  ;  her  manners  however 
are  very  graceful.  The  Prince  Royal  of  Wurtemburg 
bears  a  very  good  character,  but  his  brother  Prince  Paul 
is  universally  detested,  and  the  more  I  look  at  him,  the 
more  horrible  his  countenance  seems  to  me.  At  about 
two  o'clock  a  silk  curtain  flew  up  and  disclosed  the  Royal 
supper  room,  which  was  beautiful.  The  sides  of  the  wall 
were  painted  like  a  panorama.  The  room  itself  was  sup- 
posed to  represent  a  ship  with  masts  and  rigging.  One 
side  of  the  wall  was  painted  to  represent  Calais  and  the 
other  Dover.  There  were  £50,000  worth  of  plate,  and 
£10,000  of  chandeliers.  One  table  was  raised  a  little  above 
the  rest  for  the  Royal  personages,  and  two  along  the  room 
for  a  selection  of  Dukes,  Duchesses,  Marquises  and 
Marchionesses,  Earls  and  Countesses,  and  there  was 
another  supper  room  for  the  remainder  of  the  company. 
It  was  curious  to  see  the  various  uniforms  of  different 

1  Count  Platoff,  born  circa  176$  on  the  banks  of  the  Don.  After 
the  Peace  of  Bucharest  (1812)  he  was  appointed  Hetman  of  the  Cos- 
sacks, and  at  the  head  of  twenty  regiments,  during  the  disastrous 
retreat  from  Moscow,  he  caused  the  French  Army  as  much  harm  as 
the  cold  and  famine,  and  he  regained  from  the  soldiers  the  booty 
they  had  taken,  as  well  as  making  a  great  number  of  prisoners.  Platoff 
entered  Paris  with  the  victorious  Allied  Sovereigns,  and  accompanied 
them  to  London,  where  he  was  received  with  triumph,  and  presented 
by  the  City  Merchants  with  a  Sword  of  Honour.  He  died  in  Russia 
in  the  year  18 18. 


i8i4]  A  TERRIBLE  SENTENCE  231 

nations.  We  did  not  get  away  till  near  seven,  and  I  lay- 
in  bed  till  near  one  yesterday,  far  less  tired,  however, 
than  I  expected. 

"  The  Prince  of  Orange's  match  is  broken  off.  Princess 
Charlotte  will  not  have  him,  and  I  hear  that  he  left 
London  yesterday.  She  (the  Princess)  sent  back  his 
picture,  etc.  Everybody  pities  the  Prince,  who  has 
certainly  been  very  ill  used.  The  Regent  is  very  much 
annoyed,  and  indeed  has  plenty  to  worry  him  just  now. 
He  is  very  tired  of  his  Royal  visitors,  who  all  go  off  to 
Portsmouth  to-day,  and  I  am  glad  of  it,  as  one  cannot 
go  quietly  along  the  streets  whilst  they  are  in  London. 

"  Lord  Ellenborough  has  pronounced  sentence  on 
Lord  Cochrane — twelve  months'  imprisonment,  a  fine  of 
one  thousand  pounds,  and  to  stand  for  one  hour  in 
pillory  !  The  last  part  of  the  sentence  is  considered  to  be 
too  severe,  and  the  mob  (with  whom  Lord  Cochrane  is 
very  popular,)  threaten  to  pull  down  Lord  Ellenborough's 
house.  Nobody,  I  believe,  doubts  Lord  Cochrane's  guilt, 
but  everyone  is  sorry  for  him — nobody  for  Cochrane 
Johnstone,  who  has  gone  off  to  France  and  therefore 
will  be  outlawed.  People  think  that  Lord  Cochrane  will 
certainly  commit  suicide,  though  it  is  supposed  that  the 
Regent  will  remit  that  part  of  the  sentence  which  relates 
to  the  pillory. 

"The  Duchess  of  Leeds  has  resigned  her  situation  about 
Princess  Charlotte,  because  of  her  having  broken  off  her 
engagement  to  the  Prince  of  Orange,  without  consulting 
her  or  any  of  her  family.  The  Princess  is  much  blamed  by 
everyone,  and  it  is  thought  that  she  acted  under  the  in- 
fluence of  her  abominable  Mother,  who  never  could  bear 
the  Prince  of  Orange.  Lord  Castlereagh  made  a  most 
excellent  speech  upon  Mr.  Methuen's  motion  on  Friday; 
indeed,  he  placed  the  Prince's  conduct  in  regard  to  the 
Princess  of  Wales  in  so  favorable  a  light  that  I  hope  it 
will  change  the  current  of  public  opinion  which  has  been 
much  against  him. 

"  My  sister  and  Mr.  Knox  went  yesterday  to  Brighton 
to  take  up  their  house  of  which  they  have  got  an  eight 


232    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

years'  lease,  they  return  on  Tuesday.  The  Duke  of 
Dorset  1  is  to  be  married  to  Lady  Elizabeth  Thynne,2 
she  is  a  very  nice  girl. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  July  2nd. — My  dear  Isabella,  Sir 
James  and  two  grandsons  arrived  last  Thursday.  Jemmy 
is  a  very  pretty  boy,  with  a  fine  temper,  but  rather  spoilt. 
Johnny  is,  I  think,  one  of  the  plainest  children  I  ever 
saw.  He  seemed  very  good  humored,  but  I  cannot  kiss 
or  fondle  him,  he  is  not  what  I  call  an  inviting-looking 
child.  I  am  very  glad  to  find  myself  at  home  again,  but 
oh  !  that  I  had  my  Felix  here  !  It  is  reported  that 
Princess  Charlotte  repents  having  refused  the  Prince  of 
Orange  and  wants  to  have  him  back,  but  that  he  won't 
come,  and  that  the  Dutch  are  delighted  that  the  Match 
is  broken  off.  Old  Mrs.  Howe  is  dead  at  93.  She  had  no 
religion — said  she  often  tried  to  believe  but  could  not — 
how  dreadful ! 

"  Hunsdon  House,  July  10th. — Thursday  being  Thanks- 
giving Day  the  Regent  went  to  St.  Paul's ;  there  was  a 
grand  procession  but  I  saw  nothing  of  it.  The  Duke  of 
Wellington  went  in  the  same  carriage,  which  did  not, 
however,  prevent  the  Regent  from  being  hissed.  Parlia- 
ment has  voted  the  Princess  of  Wales  £50,000  a  year, 
she  has  chosen  only  to  accept  £35,000 — not  from  any 
good  motive,  but  to  court  popularity,  and  do  as  much 
mischief  as  she  can. 

"July  23rd. — On  Thursday  Sir  James  Stronge  came  to 
Town  and  went  with  us  to  Carlton  House.  It  was  a  most 
superb  fete  indeed !  An  immense  temporary  room 
(like  Ranelagh)  was  built  into  the  garden,  which  in  every 
part  was  brilliantly  illuminated.  Since  I  was  there  last 
a  new  supper  room  has  been  built — magnificent  beyond 
description.  The  Royal  Family  and  Grandees  supped 
there,  and  we  went  into  it  after  they  had  done.  The 
plate — all  gold — is  beautiful.     Impossible  is  it  to  de- 

1  George,  4th  Duke  of  Dorset,  born  1793,  was  killed  by  a  fall  out 
hunting  near  Dublin  February  14th,  181 5. 

2  Lady  Elizabeth  Thynne,  born  1795,  daughter  of  Thomas,  2nd 
Marquess  of  Bath,  k.g.,  married  18 16  John,  1st  Earl  Cawdor. 


i8i4]         CARLTON  HOUSE  IN  ITS  GLORY  233 

scribe  all  the  rooms  and  decorations,  it  was  like  fairyland. 
The  members  of  the  Royal  Family  present  were  the 
Queen,  Princesses  Augusta  and  Mary,  Dukes  of  York, 
Cambridge  and  Kent.  The  Princess  Charlotte  was 
out  of  town.  The  Regent  looked  ill  and  out  of  spirits — 
how  could  it  be  otherwise,  tormented  as  he  is  ?  He 
shook  me  very  kindly  by  the  hand.  The  Duke  of  Welling- 
ton was  there — just  the  same  good-humoured,  unaffected 
creature  he  ever  was.  He  met  me  very  kindly,  enquiring 
after  Felix.  '  He  left  us  early,'  said  he,  '  I  was  very 
angry  with  him  for  going  away.  I  would  not  have  let 
him  go  if  I  could  have  helped  it,  not  but  he  had  cause 
to  be  displeased,  Graham  did  not  use  him  well,  he  ought 
to  have  sent  him.'  Sir  Thomas  Pic  ton  enquired  for  him 
too  adding,  '  I  hope  he  is  in  a  way  to  get  his  promotion 
which  he  fully  deserves,  having  entered  with  so  much 
spirit  into  his  profession.'  " 

No  wonder  Mrs.  Calvert  speaks  of  these  kind  words 
as  very  gratifying  to  her  ! 

"  Miss  G.  Fitzroy  looked  very  happy,  leaning  on  the 
arm  of  her  future  husband,  Lord  Worcester.  Miss  Pole 
is  to  be  married  to  Lord  Fitzroy  Somerset,1  he  is  appointed 
Secretary  to  the  Duke  of  Wellington  at  Paris. 

"July  2jth. — Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  Hatfield  on  Sunday 
to  meet  my  Lords  the  Judges." 

This  seems  to  have  been  an  annual  visit  but  particu- 
larly interesting  on  the  present  occasion. 

"  The  Duke  of  Wellington  was  there,  and  before  dinner 
we  all  assembled  in  King  James's  Room,  and  the  Corpora- 
tions of  Hertford  and  St.  Albans  came  and  presented  him 
with  the  freedom  of  their  boroughs  in  gold  boxes.    They 

1  Lord  Fitzroy  Somerset,  youngest  son  of  the  5th  Duke  of  Beaufort, 
born  1788,  was  raised  to  the  Peerage  as  Baron  Raglan  1852.  He  lost 
an  arm  at  Waterloo,  became  a  field  marshal  in  1854,  and  assumed 
command  of  the  British  Army  in  the  Crimea.  He  died  1855,  during 
the  siege  of  Sebastopol. 


234    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

made  him  a  speech  to  which  he  replied.  There  were  about 
120  people  at  dinner,  a  very  fine  one,  and  the  band 
playing  all  the  time.  Directly  after  dinner  Lord  Salisbury 
gave  the  health  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  which  was 
drunk  with  bursts  of  applause.  When  the  gentlemen 
came  out,  we  all  walked  on  the  lawn  ;  round  the  paling 
an  immense  crowd  were  assembled.  The  Duke  shook 
hands  with  all  he  could  reach,  while  they  rent  the  air 
with  shouts  imploring  blessings  on  his  head,  and  calling 
him  the  *  glory  of  England.'  His  modesty  and  unaffected 
simplicity  of  manner  are  quite  delightful." 

Apropos  of  this  latter  trait,  I  remember  a  story  my 
father  used  to  tell  of  the  great  Duke.  When  quite  old, 
and  obliged  to  go  over  a  dangerous  crossing  in  London,  a 
gentleman  darted  forward  and  offered  his  escort,  which 
was  gratefully  accepted.  Arrived  safely  on  the  kerb-stone, 
the  stranger  took  off  his  hat,  and  bowing  profoundly, 
began  a  long  oration,  saying  that  this  was  the  proudest 
moment  of  his  life,  and  he  felt  honoured  beyond  measure 
to  have  been  of  some  slight  service  to  so  great  a  man — 

"  Don't  make  a  d d  fool  of  yourself,"  briefly  replied 

the  Duke. 

"  We  slept  at  Hatfield  and  so  did  the  Duke,  but  he 
went  to  town  on  Monday,  to  attend  the  marriage  of  Lord 
Worcester  and  his  niece."1 

Mrs.  Calvert  went  soon  afterwards  to  Grosvenor 
Street  (as  Lady  Stronge  expected  another  interesting 
event),  and  remarks  : 

"  I  think  I  never  felt  hotter  weather,  we  were  all 
expiring,  and  Sir  James  and  Mr.  C.  were  obliged  to  take 
off  their  coats  and  waistcoats  at  dinner." 

1  Henry,  Marquess  of  Worcester,  married  July  25th,  18 14,  Georgina 
Frederica,  daughter  of  the  Hon.  Henry  Fitzroy,  by  whom  he  had  two 
daughters.     Lady  Worcester  died  in  1821. 


i8i4]  LONDON  FESTIVITIES  235 

The  heat  must  have  been  very  oppressive  indeed,  to 
induce  them  to  such  desperate  measures  in  those  days 
of  strict  decorum  !  London  in  spite  of  its  sultriness  was 
very  gay  just  then,  and  there  were  universal  rejoicings, 
for  she  goes  on  to  say : 

"  We  drive  out  every  day  in  my  barouche.  Hyde 
Park  is  full  of  booths,  and  the  Serpentine  covered  with 
men-of-war.  The  other  parks  are  full  of  temples,  pagodas, 
Chinese  bridges  etc.    All  London  seems  gone  mad. 

"  August  yth. — Monday  (the  great  day  of  all)  went  off 
better  than  I  expected.  We  dined  at  three  o'clock  and 
at  four  went  to  Stable  Yard  (Mr.  John  Calvert's)  where 
we  stayed  until  two  in  the  morning  seeing  the  balloon  go 
off,  fireworks  etc.  It  certainly  was  very  beautiful,  but 
I  got  very  tired  of  it.  I  believe  I  am  growing  too  old  to 
be  much  amused  by  sights,  and  was  also  terribly  afraid 
lest  Isabella  should  be  taken  ill  there.  The  Pagoda  took 
fire  and  was  consumed,  and  two  men  lost  their  lives. 
The  crowds  in  the  parks  were  immense,  but  the  mob  so 
good-humoured  that  few  if  any  accidents  have  happened. 

"  Limerick  tells  me  that  Princess  Charlotte,  after 
refusing  the  Prince  of  Orange,  proposed  herself  to  the 
Prince  Royal  of  Prussia,  brother  to  the  King,  but  when 
he  went  in  great  delight  to  inform  his  brother,  he  was  at 
once  ordered  to  quit  the  country  and  think  no  more  of  it. 
She  then  proposed  herself  to  the  Prince  of  Saxe-Cobourg, 
but  the  Regent  promptly  put  an  end  to  his  hopes.  What 
a  little  Gypsey  ! 

"  The  Princess  of  Wales  is  going  abroad ;  Mr.  Tierney, 
one  of  her  greatest  advocates,  told  Mr.  Holmes  that  '  she 
might  go  to  the  Devil  for  him,  for  to  his  knowledge  she 
had  being  going  the  Road  to  Hell  these  five  years.'  " 

A  little  girl,  afterwards  named  Frances  Helen,1  was 
born  on  August  14th  at  Mr.  Holmes's  house  in  Grafton 

1  Frances  Helen  Stronge  married  1835  Thomas  Vesey  Nugent,  Esq., 
and  died  1909,  aged  ninety-six. 


236    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1814 

Street,  and  Mrs.  Calvert  was  able  soon  to  return  to 
Hunsdon.  Shortly  after  that  she  commenced  a  Sunday 
school  for  the  poor,  which  was  well  attended — she  men- 
tions having  had  eighty  to  ninety  scholars.  She  gives 
many  evidences  in  her  Journal  of  deep  religious  feeling, 
and  it  would  be  a  hard  heart  that  was  not  touched  by 
the  fervour  with  which  this  good  and  pure  woman  prays 
for  forgiveness  of  "  her  own  sins  and  the  sins  of  those 
whom  she  loves." 


CHAPTER   XVIII 

War  with  America — Battle  of  Bladensburg — General  Ross  is 
killed — Lady  Hertford  at  the  Pavilion — The  Regent  plays 
Patience — Marriage  of  Lord  Byron — Disturbance  on  account 
of  the  Corn  Laws — Riots  in  Berkeley  Square — Defeat  at 
New  Orleans — James  Knox  is  wounded — Return  of  Bona- 
parte from  Elba — The  Hundred  Days — Lady  Althorp — 
Poodle  Byng — The  Abbe  Sicard — Coke  of  Norfolk — Princess 
Amelia  and  General  Fitzroy. 

1814. 

ON  June  18th,  1812,  an  Act  of  Congress  had 
I  declared  America  at  war  with  Great  Britain. 
'  Hostilities  begun  in  1813  were  during  the 
following  year  renewed  with  fresh  vigour, 
and  Upper  Canada  was  once  more  invaded.  The  fall  of 
Napoleon  enabled  the  English  Government  to  devote  its 
whole  strength  to  the  struggle  with  an  enemy  that  it  had 
at  last  ceased  to  despise. 

General  Ross,  with  a  force  of  4000  men,  appeared  in 
the  Potomac,  captured  Washington,  and  before  evacuat- 
ing the  city  burned  its  public  buildings  to  the  ground. 
Few  more  shameful  acts  are  recorded  in  our  history.1 

"  October  2nd. — We  went  on  Wednesday  to  Hoddesdon 
in  great  anxiety  to  read  the  papers,  having  seen  in  the 
'  Courier  '  the  account  of  a  great  battle  and  the  taking 
and  destruction  of  Washington  by  General  Ross.2 

"  James  Knox,  who  was  with  him,  has  thank  God, 

1  Green's  History  of  the  English  People. 

2  The  Battle  of  Bladensburg,  five  miles  from  Washington,  was 
fought  on  August  24th,  18 14. 

237 


238    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1814 

escaped,  although  the  brunt  of  the  action  fell  on  his  regi- 
ment, eleven  officers  in  it  being  wounded,  and  three 
killed. 

"  '  The  85th,  wrote  James  Knox  to  his  brother,  '  had 
the  brunt  of  the  day,  when  I  saw  our  three  field  officers 
down,  and  eight  or  nine  of  the  others  sprawling  on  the 
ground,  thinks  I  to  myself,  thinks  I,  '  by  the  time  this 
action  is  over,  the  devil  is  in  it  if  I  am  not  either  a  dead 
Captain  or  a  walking  Major.'  " 

Mrs.  Calvert's  anxiety  about  her  sister's  sons  was 
almost  as  great  as  her  agitation  about  her  own  Felix. 

"  I  have  had  a  letter  from  him,  dated  Belfast.  They 
arrived  a  few  days  ago,  without  any  baggage — not  even 
a  clean  shirt — nor  had  he  taken  off  his  clothes  since  he 
landed,  but  thank  God  he  is  safe  and  well.  Poor  General 
Ross  has  been  killed.1 

"  October  29th. — Thomas  Knox  2  has  fallen  in  love  with 
the  Primate  of  Ireland's  eldest  daughter.  He  has  written 
for  his  father's  leave  to  propose,  and  Mr.  Knox  has  con- 
sented. I  hear  she  is  a  very  fine  girl  and  very  well  spoken 
of.  Sir  James  Stronge  writes  a  charming  account  of 
Miss  Stuart,3  and  I  very  much  hope  the  marriage  may 
take  place." 

In  November  we  find  Mrs.  Calvert  at  Brighton.  The 
Regent  asked  her  to  the  Pavilion  and  received  her  as 
usual  with  both  hands  held  out  and  the  greatest  kindness. 

"  Only  fourteen  ladies  were  present  including  myself — 
Ladies  Hertford,  Cholmondeley,  Asgill  etc.  These  with 
some  men  made  up  the  whole  party.  Lord  Lynedoch  was 
there,  and  sat  some  time  with  me,  we  met  most  cordially 

1  He  fell  in  an  assault  on  Baltimore,  on  September  12th. 

2  Afterwards  2nd  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

3  Mary  Juliana  Stuart,  daughter  of  the  Archbishop  of  Armagh, 
was  descended  from  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu,  and  Thomas 
Penn  was  her  maternal  grandfather.  She  was  a  person  of  rare  excellence 
and  strength  of  character.     She  died  July  nth,  1866,  in  London. 


i8i4]    LADY  HERTFORD  AT  THE  PAVILION     239 

— the  reason  of  my  cordiality  being  that  Sir  John  Cradock 
had  told  me  the  moment  before  that  he  had  given  Felix 
the  highest  character.  By  and  by  the  Regent  enquired 
very  kindly  for  him.  Lady  Hertford  was  very  civil  in 
her  manner  and  I  did  not  think  her  nearly  so  grand  as  I 
did  in  London.  She  looked  extremely  handsome.  Lady 
C.  Cholmondeley  played  on  the  pianoforte  which  she  does 
very  well  indeed.  We  broke  up  a  little  after  twelve.  My 
sister  and  Fanny  were  invited  but  not  able  to  go." 

The  next  night  Mrs.  Calvert  went  again  to  the  Pavilion, 
but  it  was  not  very  lively. 

"  The  Prince  was  dreadfully  out  of  spirits  ;  he  sighed 
deeply  and  repeatedly  which  threw  a  gloom  over  the 
whole  party.  It  would  be  much  pleasanter  if  he  asked 
more  people,  however,  one  must  take  it  as  a  greater  com- 
pliment to  be  selected." 

M  Last  night,  (Thursday)  it  was  very  pleasant  there. 
There  were  more  people  and  we  played  first  at  Casino  and 
afterward  Vingt  et  un.  When  I  had  finished,  I  went  and 
looked  over  the  Regent  playing  at  Patience  with  Lady 
Hertford  and  he  was  so  good  as  to  shew  me  how  it  was 
played.  The  Duke  of  Clarence  looks  wretchedly  ;  he 
says  Fanny  is  grown  a  very  pretty  girl. 

"  November  30th. — Last  night  at  the  Pavilion  I  played 
Vingt  et  un  till  one  in  the  morning.  Never  was  anything 
so  kind  as  the  Regent  was  to  me.  He  desired  me  when- 
ever I  wanted  assistance  or  advice  in  his  profession  for 
my  son  to  come  to  him.  Taking  my  hand  kindly,  he 
said,  '  You  know  you  and  I  are  old  friends.'  For  nearly 
an  hour  he  talked  to  me,  and  Lord  Lynedoch,  who  was 
standing  with  me,  afterwards  congratulated  me  on  the 
very  pleasant  and  kind  offer  of  help  I  had  received.  I 
walked  yesterday  for  an  hour  with  the  Duke  of  Clarence, 
and  then  he  walked  home  with  me  and  stayed  another 
hour.  I  had  settled  to  leave  Brighton  on  Tuesday,  but 
last  night  the  Prince  told  me  he  wished  I  would  stay  till 
Friday,  as  he  wanted  to  make  up  a  little  dance  and  he 


240    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1815 

thought  it  would  amuse  my  daughter.     But  I  do  long 
to  get  home." 

The  ball  took  place  on  the  Thursday  as  arranged. 
Fanny  danced  till  five  in  the  morning,  looking  very  pretty 
and  no  doubt  greatly  enjoying  herself,  and  the  Regent 
and  Duke  of  Clarence  took  leave  of  her  and  her  mother 
in  their  usual  gracious,  kindly  fashion.  Mrs.  Calvert's 
quiet  life  at  Hunsdon  must  have  seemed  rather  colourless 
after  basking  in  the  smiles  of  Royalty,  but  she  took  a 
good  walk  every  day,  and  heard  a  bit  of  society  scandal 
to  enliven  her. 

"  I  hear  that  the  King  of  Prussia's  brother  has  taken 
Miss  Emily  Rumbold  1  (one  of  Lady  Sydney  Smith's 
daughters)  as  his  left-handed  wife. 

"  January  1st,  1815. — Peace  with  America  is  signed  at 
Ghent.  It  does  not  seem  to  give  general  satisfaction,  and 
there  are  even  doubts  of  its  being  ratified." 

A  little  later  Mrs.  Calvert  records  Lord  Byron's  marriage 
to  Miss  Milbanke  (who  was  for  some  time  Mr.  Knox's 
opposite  neighbour  in  Grosvenor  Street),  and  General 
Calvert  being  made  a  K.C.B.,  much  to  her  satisfaction. 

"  Mrs.  Spencer  Perceval,  widow  of  the  murdered  Mr. 
Perceval,  the  mother  of  twelve  children,  and  over  forty 
years  of  age,  has  gone  and  married  General  Carr,2  who  is 
brother  to  the  Vicar  of  Brighton,  and  a  dozen  years 
younger  than  herself.    Everyone  cries  shame  on  her." 

What  would  Mrs.  Calvert  think  of  these  days  of  "  baby- 
snatching  !  "  She  grieves  a  little  over  advancing  years 
and  altered  looks. 

"  I  was  forty  seven  yesterday,  alas,  I  am  growing  old. 
A  cousin  of  Mr.  C.'s,  whom  we  have  not  seen  for  twenty 

1  She  married  Baron  Delmar. 

2  Afterwards  Lieut. -Colonel  Sir  Henry^Carr,  k.c.b. 


i8i5]  RIOTS  IN  BERKELEY  SQUARE  241 

five  years,  came  here  on  Friday.  I  should  not  have 
known  him,  and  of  course  he  must  have  found  me  sadly 
altered.  I  know  I  think  myself  terribly  so  during  this 
last  year.  I  am  fool  enough  to  be  uncomfortable  at  it, 
but  no  doubt  I  shall  get  used  to  it  in  time. 

"  My  mother  leaves  me  on  Tuesday.  I  don't  know  what 
I  should  do  if  the  Stronges  were  not  here,  it  would  be  so 
dull !  I  miss  a  house  in  town  very  much.  Living  all  the 
winter  in  the  country  is  not  to  my  taste,  and  when  Mr.  C. 
built  this  house  my  pleasure  and  comfort  were  consider- 
ably diminished.  However,  it  will  be  all  the  same  a 
hundred  years  hence  !  " 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  by  no  means  a  grumbler,  and  she  had 
many  domestic  virtues,  but  it  was  natural  that  a  person 
used  to  so  much  admiration  should  regret  the  gaiety  of 
London  life,  and  the  almost  daily  intercourse  with  a 
mother  and  sister  to  whom  she  was  devoted. 

At  the  Prince's  levee  early  in  the  year,  Mr.  Calvert 
met  with  a  very  gracious  reception  and  kind  enquiries 
after  his  wife.  The  Prince  hoped  that  he  was  not  angry 
with  him  for  keeping  her  at  Brighton,  but  he  thought  it 
would  amuse  the  "  young  lady  "  to  stay  for  the  ball,  and 
the  Duke  of  Clarence  spoke  of  Fanny  with  great  admira- 
tion. 

There  was  about  this  time  much  disturbance  in  London, 
on  account  of  the  Corn  Laws,1  and  Mrs.  Calvert  was  much 
alarmed  one  night  on  hearing  that  there  were  riots  in 
Berkeley  Square,  and  that  Lord  Darnley's  2  house  was 
being  pulled  down.  Matters  were  not  quite  so  serious  as 
this.  Nevertheless,  all  the  windows  were  broken,  and  also 
the  door  and  windows  of  Mr.  Yorke's  house.  Mr.  Robin- 
son (a  brother  of  Lord  Grantham)  had  his  house  invaded 

1  Mr.  Robinson's  Act,  permitting  the  importation  of  wheat  when 
its  price  should  have  reached  80s.  a  quarter,  was  not  passed  till  18 15. 

2  Lord  Darnley  was  a  supporter  of  the  Bill. 


242    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

by  the  mob,  who  destroyed  all  the  furniture  they  could 
lay  their  hands  on. 

"  Mr.  Tupper1  was  nearly  killed  by  them  at  Lord 
Darnley's  door.  They  wanted  to  drag  him  out  of  his 
carriage,  and  his  poor  wife  went  on  her  knees  to  them, 
assuring  them  that  he  was  not  Lord  Darnley.  At  last 
he  escaped  from  them,  but  his  carriage  was  broken.  The 
troops  were  called  out,  and  yesterday  were  stationed 
before  the  different  doors,  where  there  were  crowds 
gathered  to  see  the  devastations  of  the  night.  Mr.  C, 
Isabella,  and  I  walked  through  them.  I  did  not,  however, 
venture  to  visit  Lady  D.  Mr.  Knox  did,  and  found  them 
close  prisoners,  as  they  could  not  venture  out.  They  had 
soldiers  in  the  hall.  We  dined  at  Mr.  Robinson's,2 
Albemarle  Street.  I  felt  a  little  nervous  coming  home, 
but  met  no  mob.  There  was  a  dreadful  storm  at  night, 
which  made  me  nervous  too.  God  preserve  my  Felix  ! 
I  hear,  in  spite  of  the  Guards,  several  windows  were 
broken  last  night.  There  were  seven  pieces  of  cannon 
planted  on  carriages  at  the  back  of  this  house,  ready  to 
go  anywhere  in  case  they  were  wanted.  Mr.  C.  is  gone 
to  the  house  of  Commons,  but  I  believe  that  now  is  as 
safe  a  place  as  any,  as  every  precaution  is  taken.  The 
walls  are  covered  over  with,  '  No  Corn  Bill,  Bread  or 
Blood,'  and  a  great  many  more  things,  all  tending  to 
inflame  the  public  mind." 

"  Park  Street,  March  15th. — Just  after  I  wrote,  Mr. 
Knox  came  in  in  great  agitation  to  tell  me  that  accounts 
had  arrived  from  New  Orleans  that  we  were  dreadfully 
beat.  Generals  Pakenham3  and  Gibbs  and  many  others 
killed,  and  poor,  dear  James  wounded,  and  landed  at 

1  Mrs.  Calvert's  doctor. 

2  Mrs.  Robinson  was  a  Miss  Spencer,  a  very  beautiful  woman, 
sister  to  Mrs.  William  Knox,  and  to  Lady  Harberton. 

3  A  brother  of  the  Duchess  of  Wellington.  Sir  Edward  Pakenham, 
g.c.b.,  was  born  1778.  He  distinguished  himself  during  the  Peninsula 
War,  and  received  the  thanks  of  both  Houses  of  Parliament.  He  fell 
in  action  January  8th,  18 15,  near  New  Orleans. 


LADY    ROBINSON 


i8i5]  JAMES  KNOX  IS  WOUNDED  243 

Portsmouth,  but  no  particulars  known.  I  went  off  directly 
to  Grosvenor  Street,  and  spent  the  day  there,  except  driv- 
ing down  to  the  Horse  Guards  to  enquire  about  James. 
I  saw  Sir  Harry,  who  referred  me  to  Captain  Wyvill,  who 
brought  the  despatches.  I  drove  directly  to  the  Hotel 
where  he  was,  and  sent  him  in  a  message.  He  sent  me 
down  word  that  James  certainly  had  been  wounded,  but 
was  quite  recovered,  and  would  be  in  Town  either  that 
evening,  or  the  next.  This,  of  course,  was  a  great  com- 
fort, and  the  next  day,  poor  fellow,  he  arrived  quite  early. 
He  had  had  a  desperate  wound.  The  ball  went  in  at  the 
back  of  his  neck,  went  under  his  blade  bone,  and  came  out 
at  the  opposite  side.  It  is  now  healed,  but  he  had  a 
wonderful  escape." 

Apropos  of  this  wound  of  James  Knox,  it  was  for  many 
years  a  joke  in  the  family  that  his  mother  used  to  intro- 
duce him  to  friends  as  "  my  son,  who  was  shot  in  the 
back,"  and  he  considered  this  by  no  means  an  enviable 
distinction. 

The  news  of  Bonaparte's  escape  from  Elba  produced 
immense  excitement. 

"  Monsieur,  and  the  Duke  of  Orleans,  set  off  instantly 
for  Lyons,  and  Macdonald.  Massena,  who  commands  in 
the  South,  has  written  to  assure  Louis  18th  of  his  fidelity, 
but  the  reports  in  the  absence  of  certain  intelligence  are 
various,  and  some  very  unfavourable.  They  say  he  has 
reached  Lyons — that  Murat  has  declared  in  Italy  for  him, 
and  many  joined  him — others  say  none  have — in  short, 
we  must  wait  patiently  till  intelligence  comes.  The  ratifi- 
cation of  the  peace  with  America  is  come,  which  is  so  far 
good,  and  the  riots  in  London  are  all,  for  the  present, 
over,  but  we  have  strong  military  protection.  The  Corn 
Bill  is  over  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  is  now  going 
through  the  Lords. 

"  They  say  the  failure  of  the  business  at  New  Orleans 
was  occasioned  by  the  cowardice  of  a  Regiment  headed 


244    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

by  the  Honourable  Col.  Mullins,1  an  Irish  man.  He  was 
under  arrest  when  James  came  away. 

"  March  20th. — On  Friday  Sir  James,  Edmond  Knox, 
and  John  arrived  from  Paris.  They  had  come  off  in  a 
violent  hurry,  as  did  the  Duchess  of  Wellington,  and 
shoals  of  English  on  account  of  Bonaparte's  advance. 
Indeed,  for  two  or  three  days,  the  accounts  were  most 
dismal,  but,  thank  God,  these  two  last  days,  the  horizon 
has  been  cleared.  Bony  has  been  obliged  to  retreat, 
and  there  is  every  hope  he  will  be  surrounded,  as  people 
seem  to  be  fast  rallying  round  the  Throne.  Almost  all 
the  marshals  are  staunch.  There  has  been  a  good  deal  of 
disaffection  in  the  army,  but  many  who  have  deserted 
have  returned,  ashamed  of  their  conduct.  In  short,  every- 
thing at  present  seems  more  favourable.  We  talk  and 
think  of  nothing  else. 

"  March  26th.  Easter  Sunday,  Hunsdon  House. — 
Alas  !  The  accounts  from  France  are  as  bad  as  possible. 
Bonaparte  has  literally  walked  over  the  course,  and  is 
now  in  peaceable  possession  of  Paris.  The  English  and 
emigrants  have  all  fled.  Louis  18th,  and  the  other 
Princes  of  the  blood,  with  some  of  the  Marshals  who  have 
stuck  to  him  are  fled  to  Lisle.  I  believe  Massena  is  among 
the  traitors,  but  we  don't  know  yet  for  certain  who  are, 
and  who  are  not.  Clarke  (Due  de  Feltre)  is  come  here. 
There  has  not  been  a  shot  fired.  The  soldiers  all  deserted 
to  him,  and  the  people  either  are  favourable,  or  are  afraid 
of  appearing  otherwise.  The  Allies  talk  of  marching 
against  him.  If  they  do,  it  must  be  speedily,  before  he 
has  time  to  make  preparations.  Many  think  he  will  yet 
be  routed,  but  I  own  /  am  very  desponding  on  the  subject. 
Mme.  Talleyrand  and  Mme.  Moreau  arrived  a  week  ago, 
but  it  is  really  impossible  to  say  who  has  arrived. 

"  I  went  on  Thursday  to  the  Chapel  Royal  with  Fanny 
to  have  her  confirmed  by  the  Bishop  of  London.2    God 

1  Lieut. -Colonel  the  Hon.  Thomas  Mullins,  third  son  of  the  ist 
Baron  Ventry,  d.s.p.  1823. 

2  John  Randolph  succeeded  Porteous  as  Bishop  of  London  in  1809. 
He  died  July  28th,  18 13. 


i8i5]  LADY  ALTHORP  245 

preserve  her,  and  make  her  ever  good  and  pious  !  !  !  The 
Bishop  of  London  has  a  very  bad  delivery,  and  his  manner 
has  not  that  impressiveness  which  I  so  much  admired  in 
poor  Porteous,  and  which  always  affected  me. 

"  Parliament  adjourned  on  Thursday  until  Monday  sen- 
night. The  Prince  gave  the  royal  assent  to  the  Corn  Bill. 
Lord  Cochrane  went  on  Tuesday  to  the  House  of  Com- 
mons. He  was  arrested,  and  sent  back  to  the  King's 
Bench.  The  man  must  be  mad.  They  say  he  had  his 
pockets  full  of  inflammable  powder,  and  meant  to  blow 
up  the  House  (but  I  won't  vouch  for  the  truth  of  any- 
thing). 

"  The  Allies  seem  to  be  making  great  preparations 
against  Bonaparte,  who  holds  very  moderate  language, 
wanting  peace,  but  this  is  merely  to  gain  time.  It  is  to  be 
hoped  they  won't  trust  him  or  the  French  people,  who 
seem  so  glad  to  have  got  him  back  again." 

In  April  Mrs.  Calvert  went  to  a  very  crowded  Drawing- 
room  to  present  her  daughter,  Lady  Stronge,  on  her 
marriage. 

"  The  Queen  received  me  very  graciously,  as  did  the 
Princesses  Augusta  and  Mary,  and  the  Regent,  also  the 
Duke  of  Clarence. 

"  Fanny  and  I  went  at  night  to  a  very  pleasant  party 
at  Mrs.  Robinson's.  There  was  a  good  deal  of  waltzing. 
I  met  Lady  Althorp  there.  We  renewed  our  acquaint- 
ance, and  are  as  good  friends  as  ever.  She  is  quite  affec- 
tionate to  me,  and  I  like  her  much.  I  went  to  see  her 
mother,  Mrs.  Acklom,  this  morning.  She  was  sitting  with 
her,  and  kissed  me  going  in,  and  coming  away.  I  am 
quite  glad  we  are  reconciled,  as  I  really  think  her  very 
pleasing.  Thomas  and  his  bride  x  are  arrived.  They 
were  here  to-day.  I  do  not  think  her  handsome,  but  she 
seems  pleasing,  and  has  a  good  figure,  but  fidgets  and 
wriggles  rather  too  much  when  speaking.  Perhaps  when 
she  is  more  at  her  ease  she  will  lose  some  of  that.    They 

1  They  were  married  on  February  28th. 


246    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

have  got  a  house  in  South  Audley  Street.  Thomas  looks 
very  happy.  We  are  going  to  meet  them  at  dinner  in 
Grosvenor  Street. 

"  April  2yd. — We  all  dined  at  Grosvenor  Street  on 
Saturday,  and  were  much  pleased  with  Mrs.  Thomas 
Knox's  appearance  and  manners,  though  she  is  still  too 
fidgetty.  I  believe  it  is  partly  shyness,  and  partly  trick. 
I  begin  to  think  her  pretty.  Lady  Darnley  came  there 
in  the  evening.  On  Sunday  they  all  dined  here,  and  Miss 
Tew  and  Isabella.  Mr.  C.  went  to  Hunsdon.  Lady 
Dufferin  x  and  Mrs.  Delap  2  came  in  the  evening.  On 
Monday  I  dined  in  Grosvenor  Street,  and  at  night  went 
to  an  Assembly  at  Lady  Salisbury's.  I  met  my  friend, 
the  Regent,  there,  and  had  twice  in  the  course  of  the 
evening,  a  very  kind  shake  of  the  hand  from  him. 

"  Yesterday  we  dined  early  and  went  at  night  to  the 
play.  It  was  one  written  by  Mrs.  Wilmot,3  sister  to 
Lady  Asgill.  It  was  condemned,  and  I  think,  with  great 
reason.  I  have  seen  Lady  Al thorp  several  times  since  ; 
she  has  been  here,  and  I  with  her  two  or  three  times. 
She  is  as  affectionate  as  possible. 

"  When  I  returned  from  Church,  I  had  a  most  unex- 
pected happiness.  My  beloved  Felix  had  arrived  from 
America.  He  left  Custine  a  month  ago,  only  in  the 
Tenedos — had  a  blustering  passage,  but,  thank  God, 
here  he  is  ! 

"  Hunsdon  House,  May  yth. — Last  Wednesday  we  went 
to  a  large  Assembly  at  my  sister's.  The  Duke  of  Clarence 
was  the  only  Royal  there.     He  was,  as  usual,  very  kind 

1  The  Hon.  Anne  Dorothea  Foster,  only  daughter  of  John,  ist  Baron 
Oriel,  married  November  15th,  1801,  James,  2nd  Lord  Dufferin  and 
Clandeboye. 

2  William  Drummond  Delap  of  Monasterboyce,  Co.  Louth,  married 
September  5th,  1805,  Catherine,  eldest  daughter  of  Rt.  Rev.  William 
Foster,  d.d.,  Bishop  of  Clogher,  and  brother  of  John,  ist  Lord  Oriel. 
He  took  by  Royal  Licence  in  1861  the  name  of  Dunlop.  Lady  Dufferin 
and  Mrs.  Delap  were  first  cousins. 

8  Mrs.  Wilmot  was  the  third  daughter  of  Sir  Chaloner  Ogle,  Bart., 
and  one  of  the  most  accomplished  women  of  her  time.  She  was  born 
in  1768,  and  died  in  1854,  having  married  as  her  second  husband  (1819) 
Thomas  Brand,  20th  Lord  Dacre. 


MARY    STUART,    2ND    COUNTESS    OF    RANFURLY 


i8i5]  "POODLE"  BYNG  247 

indeed,  and  also  spoke  very  kindly  to  all  belonging  to  me. 
When  I  introduced  Sir  James  he  said  he  must  shake  hands 
with  him,  as  he  was  always  happy  to  do  it  with  anyone 
allied  to  me. 

"  On  Thursday  I  went  to  see  Mrs.  Thomas  Knox, 
dressed  for  court.  She  was  to  be  presented,  and  what  was 
an  odd  coincidence,  Lady  Althorp  was  also  presented, 
and  sent  to  me  to  come  and  look  at  her,  which  I  did. 

"  Amongst  others  we  met  Mr.  Byng  x  (a  brother  of 
Lord  Torrington's,  nicknamed  '  Poodle  '  from  his  curly 
hair). 

"  May  1.2th. — We  went  at  night  to  a  ball  at  my  sister's. 
Fanny  liked  it  very  much,  and  danced  until  four  in  the 
morning,  and  looked  really  extremely  well.  Felix  is  still 
at  Hunsdon.  The  only  Royals  at  my  sister's  were  the 
Dukes  of  Clarence  and  Gloucester.  There  was  one  room 
entirely  for  waltzing. 

"  May  18th. — Felix  received  a  few  lines  from  General 
Calvert  saying,  '  You  are  born  under  a  lucky  military 
planet.  Prepare  yourself  for  Flanders.  You  are  ap- 
pointed to  a  Majority  on  full  pay,  in  the  32nd  there.' 
Felix  came  off  directly,  and  is  busy  preparing.  He  is  de- 
lighted. He  is  to  be  in  next  Saturday's  Gazette.  I  do 
not  feel  grieved  as  I  generally  do  when  I  hear  he  is  ordered 
on  Service.  Somehow,  I  feel  as  if  all  would  be  arranged 
before  he  is  ready  to  go.  France  seems,  by  no  means, 
reconciled  to  Bonaparte's  return.  I  feel  a  sort  of  pre- 
sentiment that  he  will  be  put  down  without  a  war. 

"  May  29th. — We  returned  to  Town  last  Monday. 

"  On  Tuesday  we  went  to  a  card  party  at  Lady  Essex's, 
and  afterwards  to  a  horrible  squeeze  at  Lady  Pole's.  I 
was  amused  there  with  conversing  with  the  Abbe  Sicard, 
the  teacher  of  the  deaf  and  dumb  at  Paris.    He  had  two  of 

1  He  was  the  Hon.  Frederick  Byng,  fifth  son  of  the  5th  Viscount 
Torrington.  He  was  in  the  Foreign  Office,  a  well-known  man  about 
town,  and  a  great  autocrat  at  Brooke's.  He  married  Miss  Catherine 
Neville,  and  died  in  1871.  He  was  one  of  the  four  last  people  to  appear 
in  blue  coats  and  brass  buttons  at  Bowood  in  1850 — the  other  three 
being  Lord  Palmerston,  Lord  John  Russell,  and  the  host  (Lord  Lans- 
downe). 


248    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

his  pupils  with  him,  and  it  is  very  curious  to  see  how  he 
makes  them  understand  everything  by  signs. 

"  On  Monday  Mr.  C.  and  I  dined  at  Lord  Limerick's.1 
There  were  eighteen  to  dinner,  eleven  of  whom  were 
females,  which  I  think  not  pleasant.  The  Prince  dined 
opposite  at  Lord  Bathurst's,  and  stood  at  the  window. 
He  told  Limerick  yesterday  he  saw  me,  and  kissed  his 
hand  to  me,  but  I  was  too  near-sighted  to  perceive  it. 

"  On  Thursday  my  sister  and  I  went  to  Harrow  to  hear 
the  Speeches.    Doctor  Butler  gave  a  fine  collation. 

"  On  Friday  I  went  in  the  evening  to  Lady  Stronge's. 
Sir  Thomas  Picton  2  dined  there,  whom  I  like  very  much. 

"  June  13th. — Mr.  Coke  of  Norfolk,3  General  Fitzroy, 
(brother  to  the  late  Lord  Southampton),  and  married  to 
his  cousin,  (daughter  of  the  present  Duke  of  Grafton), 
and  Mr.  Grey  came  here  yesterday.  Charles  Calvert  ar- 
rived here  in  the  evening.  Mr.  Coke  seems  a  very  amiable 
man,  and  is  much  liked  and  respected.  General  Fitzroy 
is  very  pleasant  and  lively  ;  he  gave  me  the  account  of 
his  brother  General  Charles  Fitzroy,  and  Princess  Amelia's 
attachment.  He  does  not  think  they  were  married,  but 
that  they  intended  being  so.  He  has  seen  her  letters,  and 
he  says  her  attachment  was  very  strong.  She  left  him 
her  residuary  legatee  and  executor,  but  the  Regent  per- 
suaded him  to  give  it  up,  as  he  said  it  would  create  scandal. 
He  insists  on  the  fact  that  the  Regent  behaved  very  ill, 
(and  his  brother  quarrelled  with  him  in  consequence), 
and  indeed,  he  says,  cheated  him,  but  I  am  slow  to  believe 
all  I  hear.  He  says  the  Princess  Mary  4  was  also  very 
much  in  love  with  his  brother,  and  jealous  of  her  sister, 
and  created  a  great  deal  of  mischief.  He  abused  them 
all,  and  says  they  are  liars,  selfish,  and  are  on  no  occasion 
to  be  depended  upon.  If  his  report  is  true,  I  am  sure  it 
is  a  lamentable  case  to  have  such  a  Royal  Family." 

1  In  Mansfield  Street.  2  Afterwards  killed  at  Waterloo. 

3  Afterwards  Earl  of  Leicester.  Well  known  to  readers  of  Mrs. 
Stirling's  delightful  book.  He  was  born  1752,  and  died  1844,  having 
been  many  years  M.P.  for  Norfolk. 

4  Princess  Mary  married  in  18 16  her  cousin,  the  Duke  of  Gloucester, 
and  d.s.p.  1857. 


CHAPTER    XIX 

Miss  O'Neil  as  Mrs.  Haller — The  Battle  of  Waterloo — Bonaparte 
abdicates — Good  news  at  last — A  graphic  account  of  the 
actions — Louis  XVIII  in  Paris — Miss  Kitty  Stephens  in  the 
Beggar's  Opera — Sir  Peregrine  Maitland — Queen  Charlotte 
at  Brighton — Escape  of  Lavallette — Agricultural  distress — 
Marriage  of  Princess  Charlotte — Frances  Calvert. 

1815. 

THE  slowness  with  which  news  travelled  ninety- 
five  years  ago  must  have  added  much  to  the 
horrors  of  war-time. 
Felix  Calvert  sailed  for  Flanders  just  a 
week  before  Waterloo  Day.  On  the  night  of  the  Duke  of 
Richmond's  memorable  ball  Mrs.  Calvert  and  her  sister, 
having  dined  early  together  in  Grosvenor  Street,  went  to 
Covent  Garden  to  see  Miss  O'Neil  in  the  part  of  Mrs. 
Haller,  little  dreaming  of  the  deadly  struggle  that  was 
so  very  near. 

It  was  barely  six  months  since  this  famous  actress  had 
first  appeared  at  Covent  Garden,  and  taken  the  London 
world  by  storm.  For  five  years  she  was  a  reigning 
favourite,  and  throughout  her  theatrical  career  maintained 
an  unblemished  reputation.  Macready  says  of  her  that 
"  her  beauty,  grace,  simplicity  and  tenderness  were  the 
theme  of  every  tongue."  As  Miss  Fotheringay  in  Pen- 
dennis  Thackeray  has  made  us  well  acquainted  with  her, 
and  it  was  in  the  character  of  Mrs.  Haller  that  she  made 
her  last  appearance  on  July  13th,  1819.    At  the  end  of  that 

249 


250    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

year  she  married  Mr.  William  Becher,  an  Irish  Member 
of  Parliament,  who  afterwards  succeeded  to  a  Baronetcy.1 
For  this  lovely  and  brilliant  Irishwoman  Mrs.  Calvert 
has  nothing  but  warm  praise. 

"  She  certainly  is  a  most  excellent  actress.  Her  face 
is  not  expressive,  perhaps,  but  her  actions  are  most 
graceful,  her  voice  melodious,  and  her  manners  so  natural 
that  you  can  scarcely  believe  she  is  not  the  person  she 
means  to  represent.  I  believe  there  was  not  a  dry  eye 
in  the  house." 

On  June  20th  Mrs.  Calvert,  who  had  gone  down  to 
Brighton,  received  a  letter  from  her  husband  saying  that 
Bonaparte  was  at  the  head  of  his  army  advancing  against 
the  Duke  of  Wellington.  The  next  day  brought  the 
news  that  two  battles  had  been  fought,  and  Bonaparte 
entirely  defeated. 

"  June  23rd. — I  went  at  four  o'clock  to  the  Library, 
and  soon  after  the  papers  arrived,  giving  an  account  of 
the  Duke  of  Wellington's  great  victory  of  the  18th.  He 
beat  Bonaparte  to  atoms  and  took  150  pieces  of  cannon. 
Blucher  also  captured  a  large  amount.  Though  our  loss 
is  stated  to  be  immense,  only  a  few  names  are  given, 
that  of  poor  General  Picton2  among  them. 

"  I  returned  home  in  great  anxiety.  But  a  few  minutes 
after  I  received  by  the  coach  a  letter  from  Mr.  C,  saying 
that  Sir  James  and  Mr.  Holmes  had  searched  through 
the  list  of  killed  and  wounded  at  the  Foreign  Office, 
and  Felix's  name  was  certainly  not  among  them.  I  am 
always  fearing  that  there  may  be  some  mistake. 

"  June  24th. — Mr.  C.  sent  me  the  Gazette.  No  fresh 
news,  except  that  prisoners  were  coming  fast.  The  Duke 
of  Wellington  was  going  to  send  home  7000  directly.    I 

1  Lady  Becher  died  October  29th,  1872. 

2  The  remains  of  General  Picton  lay  in  state  at  21  Edward  Street 
on  their  arrival  in  London  after  the  Battle  of  Waterloo.  He  was 
buried  in  the  cemetery  in  the  Uxbridge  Road,  Bayswater. 


i8iS]  ABDICATION  OF  BONAPARTE  251 

feel  very  unhappy  at  not  getting  a  letter  from  Felix. 
What  can  be  the  reason  ? 

"  Bonaparte  has  abdicated  in  favour  of  his  son,  but 
nothing  is  settled.  Various  are  the  reports  ;  some  say 
that  he  is  assassinated.  The  Duke  of  Wellington  is  at 
Compiegne — within  forty  miles  of  Paris.  But  I  care  for 
nothing  till  I  hear  from  my  beloved  boy. 

"  June  30th. — I  am  the  happiest  creature  imaginable  ! 
This  morning  brought  me,  thank  God  !  a  letter  from  my 
Felix  dated  June  22nd,  safe  and  well,  though  he  had  been 
in  the  whole  of  the  actions  of  the  16th  and  18th.  On 
the  16th  a  piece  of  his  boot  was  torn  off  by  a  shell, 
and  on  the  18th,  his  horse  was  killed  under  him  and  four 
or  five  shots  went  through  his  coat.  But  he  himself,  the 
Lord  be  praised,  was  untouched.  His  regiment  was  part 
of  Sir  Thomas  Picton's  brigade,  and  has  suffered  much — 
32  officers  killed  and  320  men.  There  are  various  reports 
here — that  the  Duke  of  Wellington  is  at  Paris  and 
Bonaparte  in  custody — but  there  is  no  believing  any- 
thing one  hears. 

"After  Sir  Thomas  Picton's  death  Felix's  regiment 
became  attached  to  the  division  of  Sir  James  Kempt  *  who 
thanked  him  particularly  for  his  conduct  during  the 
battle." 

Very  gratifying  to  Mrs.  Calvert's  maternal  vanity  must 
have  been  a  letter  forwarded  to  her  by  her  friend  the 
Adjutant-General. 

"  Sir  James  Kempt  says  that  there  does  not  exist  in  the 
service  a  finer  young  man  than  Felix,  or  a  more  promising 
officer,  and  that  he  had  so  distinguished  himself  on  the 
1 6th  and  18th  by  his  gallantry  and  good  conduct  that 
he  had  thought  it  his  duty  to  recommend  him  in  a  very 
particular  manner  to  the  Duke  of  Wellington  for  a  step 
of  Brevet  promotion.  How  I  shall  rejoice  to  have  him  a 
Lieutenant  Colonel — and  by  his  own  merit  !  " 

1  General  Sir  James  Kempt  commanded  the  18th  Division  at  the 
Battle  of  Waterloo. 


252    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1S15 

Major  Calvert's  own  account  of  the  action  will  interest 
many  of  our  readers. 

"  Bavay. 

"  June  22nd,  1815. 

"  My  dear  Mother, 

"  I  seize  the  first  opportunity  of  writing  to  you 
what  has  occurred  since  the  severe  and  glorious  actions 
we  have  lately  been  engaged  in.  I  have  been  anxious  to 
relieve  you  from  any  apprehensions  on  my  account  for 
these  several  days,  but  we  have  been  incessantly  marching 
and  without  baggage.  It  is  impossible  for  a  regimental 
officer,  whose  attention  is  entirely  directed  to  his  own 
command,  to  give  a  good  general  account  of  an  engage- 
ment. You  must,  therefore,  look  for  that  in  the  Duke's 
despatches.  I  can  only  tell  you  what  our  own  division 
did,  and  in  truth  that  was  no  little.  At  one  o'clock  in 
the  morning  of  the  16th,  we  marched  from  Brussells  in 
consequence  of  Bonaparte  having  attacked  the  Prussians, 
who  were  cantoned  on  the  left  of  our  Army,  and  at  about 
half  past  one  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  arrived  at  our 
position  two  miles  in  front  of  the  village  of  Genape. 

"  Here  the  5th  division  found  itself  the  only  British 
one  on  the  ground,  though  we  had  a  good  number  of 
Belgians,  Nassau  soldiers,  and  Brunswickers.  Whether 
Bonaparte  discovered  this  I  cannot  say,  but  he  very 
soon  put  in  motion  some  heavy  columns  to  attack  us. 
Our  brigade  was  posted  on  the  slope  of  a  hill  among  the 
corn,  at  the  bottom  of  the  hill  ran  a  hedge,  occupied 
by  the  French  Tirailleurs.  Their  columns  of  attack  were 
formed  in  a  narrow  meadow  on  the  other  side  of  it,  from 
which  the  ground  rose  gradually  to  their  position  where 
their  reserves  were  posted.  Under  cover  of  a  heavy 
cannonade  from  a  numerous  artillery  their  troops  moved 
on  as  usual  in  masses  to  attack  us,  and  in  spite  of  the 
heavy  fire  we  kept  up  upon  them,  they  gradually  ascended 
the  hill.  When  they  had  arrived  half  way  up  Sir  T. 
Picton  gave  the  order  to  charge,  which  we  did  most 
efficaciously,    and    our   regiment    broke    and   dispersed 


i8i5]  SEVERE  FIGHTING  253 

immediately  whatever  was  in  front  of  them.  We  pressed 
them  to  the  foot  of  their  own  position,  and  then  retired 
in  good  order,  though  with  considerable  loss  to  our  own. 

"As  we  had  suffered  a  good  deal,  we  hoped  that  the 
enemy  had  been  satisfied  with  his  first  reception,  but 
very  different  were  his  intentions.  In  about  half  an  hour 
fresh  columns  came  down  and  attacked  us,  and  were 
again  received  in  the  same  manner.  After  remaining  in 
position  under  cannonade  for  an  hour  or  two  longer,  we 
were  ordered  to  form  a  second  line,  and  a  Brigade  of 
Germans  was  advanced  in  our  place.  Our  services, 
however,  were  not  at  an  end  here,  as  the  enemy  had 
gained  considerably  on  our  right,  and  had  made  several 
desperate  charges  of  Cavalry  on  General  Pack's  brigade. 

"  They  had  likewise  gained  the  wood  on  our  right, 
and  were  rapidly  turning  it,  when  one  of  the  brigades  of 
Guards  arriving  most  opportunely  drove  them  out  of  it 
after  some  severe  righting.  Our  regiment  was  then 
moved  up  to  support  Pack's  brigade,  and  the  enemy 
finding  he  could  make  no  impression  upon  us  retired  at 
dusk.  We  bivouacked  that  night  on  the  field  of  battle. 
In  the  morning  of  the  17th  inst.  the  enemy  made  no 
attempt  upon  us  and  we  remained  in  position.  About 
mid-day,  however,  we  found  that  in  consequence  of  the 
Prussians  having  been  driven  back,  it  was  likewise 
necessary  for  us  to  retire,  which  we  accordingly  did  in  the 
best  possible  order,  covered  by  our  cavalry,  which  had 
arrived  during  the  night  and  morning  after  the  action. 
We  took  up  a  position  in  front  of  the  villages  of  Braine 
l'Alleud  and  Waterloo,  the  grand  chaussee  leading  to 
Brussels  running  through  our  position  :  our  division 
was  placed  on  the  left  of  the  chaussee,  the  British  in  the 
first  line,  the  Hanoverians  in  the  second  ;  our  regiment 
the  right  one  of  the  division  being  next  the  chaussee. 
The  enemy  advanced  a  few  men  to  feel  us  in  the  evening, 
and  being  warmly  received,  and  finding  our  whole  army 
up,  rested  quiet  for  the  night.  The  night  proved  the 
most  rainy  I  ever  recollect,  enough  to  cool  the  courage 
of  both  parties. 


254    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

"  On  the  morning  of  the  18th  the  enemy  did  not  show 
himself  in  very  great  force.  He  was  probably  waiting 
the  arrival  of  all  his  troops.  At  about  10  o'clock,  how- 
ever, he  attacked  our  right  with  great  vivacity.  As  I 
could  not  see  that  part  of  the  line,  I  can  say  nothing 
about  it.  At  about  twelve,  however,  they  made  their 
first  grand  attack  on  our  centre,  where  our  division  was 
posted,  and  advanced  with  the  greatest  gallantry  to  the 
very  muzzles  of  our  guns.  We  succeeded,  however,  in 
repelling  them  with  that  never  -  failing  weapon,  the 
bayonet.  They  came  so  close  to  us  that  a  French  officer 
actually  seized  hold  of  our  colours,  but  three  or  four  balls 
and  as  many  bayonets  in  his  body  made  him  repent  his 
audacity.  We  made  immense  slaughter  of  them,  and  the 
Colonel  of  the  French  grenadiers  which  attacked  our  regi- 
ment was  killed.  I  have  bought  his  Croix  de  la  Legion 
d'Honneur  from  a  soldier  of  the  95th,  who  plundered 
him,  which  I  am  keeping  for  you.  They  made  afterwards 
desperate  attempts  (I  cannot  tell  how  many)  and  were  as 
often  repulsed.  Towards  the  evening,  however,  we  had 
lost  so  many  men,  that  I  began  to  fear  we  should  lose 
the  day,  and  he  had  actually  established  himself  on  a 
part  of  our  centre,  when,  whether  from  the  Prussians 
having  arrived  and  commenced  an  attack  on  his  right, 
whether  from  our  right  having  defeated  his  left,  or 
whether  from  despair  of  forcing  us  from  our  position,  to 
our  inexpressible  delight,  he  retired  with  the  greatest 
precipitancy.  The  Cavalry  immediately  followed,  and 
the  pursuit  was  continued  by  them  and  the  Prussians 
till  long  after  dark.  The  fruits  of  the  action  you  know. 
Our  loss  has  been  severe,  as  you  see  by  what  I  have 
written  above,  our  division  was  not  idle.  Poor  Sir 
Thomas  Picton  was  killed  in  the  rear  of  our  regiment.  He 
was  struck  in  the  head  by  a  musquet  or  grape  shot.  The 
loss  the  32nd  has  sustained  is  32  officers  and  upwards  of 
320  men. 

"  I  escaped  uninjured,  with  my  usual  good  luck.  On  the 
16th  I  was  struck  on  the  heel  with  the  splinter  of  shell, 
which  did  me  no  other  harm  than  tearing  my  boot,  and 


i8i5]  THE  KING  RE-ENTERS  PARIS  255 

on  the  1 8th  my  coat  was  shot  through  in  four  or  five 
places  ;  and  my  little  horse,  which  I  bought  of  John 
Monk  and  valued  so  highly,  was  killed  under  me. 

"  It  was  lucky  that  I  quitted  London  when  I  did. 
Had  I  left  it  a  day  later  I  should  have  missed  being  in 
the  first  action,  as  I  only  joined  my  regiment  the  night 
before  they  marched.  Tell  John  Knox  I  am  very  angry 
with  Mr.  Laterlo,  as  he  got  panic  struck,  and  has  gone 
off  to  Antwerp  with  my  baggage.  God  knows  whether 
I  shall  ever  see  it  again. 

"I  am  a  pretty  dirty  figure,  having  been  sleeping  in 
the  mud  these  six  nights.  I  have,  however,  just  bought 
some  fowls  and  mutton  and  a  dozen  of  claret  which  will 
soon  console  me  for  my  present  misery. 

"  Yours  etc. 

"  F.  Calvert."  * 

"  July  2nd. — The  more  I  think,  the  more  grateful  do 
I  feel  for  the  preservation  of  my  Felix.  Every  day  brings 
fresh  accounts  of  officers  of  all  ranks  who  have  been 
killed  and  have  not  been  put  in  the  return.  There  are 
various  stories  here,  a  fishing  boat  from  the  coast  of 
France,  having  arrived  last  evening.  They  came  in  with 
the  white  flag  flying  and  brought  letters  to  the  Due  de 
Castries  who  is  here.  These  letters  state  that  the  Allies 
are  in  Paris,  and  that  Louis  is  to  make  his  public  entry 
there  to-day.2  But  I  fear  there  is  no  truth  in  either 
story. 

"July  gth. — After  many  unpleasant  reports  we  were  re- 
lieved on  Friday  by  despatches  from  the  Duke  of  Welling- 
ton. Paris  surrendered  on  Tuesday  and  there  has  been 
no  fighting  since.  Nobody  knows  what  has  become  of 
Bonaparte. 

"  Mr.  Whitbread  has  cut  his  throat,  nobody  knows 

1  A  nephew  of  Major  Calvert's,  the  Rev.  Francis  Warre,  relates  that 
as  a  little  boy  he  was  present  when  his  uncle  was  dressing  for  the 
Waterloo  banquet,  and  asked  him  what  the  Battle  of  Waterloo  was 
like.  "  Devilish  hot !  "  was  the  answer.  A  concise  but  graphic  de- 
scription not  easily  forgotten. 

2  Louis  XVIII  re-entered  Paris  July  3rd,  18 15. 


256    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1815 

why. 1  He  made  a  speech  in  the  House  last  Thursday.  The 
Allies  are  in  Paris,  and  so  are  the  Emperors  of  Russia 
and  Austria  and  the  King  of  Prussia. 

"  There  is  a  disagreeable  report  in  London,  that  the 
Duke  of  Wellington  is  assassinated.  God  forbid  it  should 
be  true  ! 

"  Juty  19th. — A  letter  from  Felix  to-day  dated  July 
10th,  written  from  the  Camp  before  Paris.  He  speaks 
with  great  contempt  of  the  French  and  of  '  King  Log ' 
as  he  calls  him.  He  has  been  but  once  into  Paris  to  see 
the  King's  reception,  which  was  he  says,  most  nattering." 

Felix's  time  was  so  much  occupied  that  his  long-looked- 
for  letters  arrived  at  rare  intervals,  and  occasionally  they 
were  lost. 

"  I  am  very  sorry,"  he  writes,  "  that  my  last  letter  is 
missing.  I  think  I  enclosed  it  in  one  to  the  Adjutant 
General,2  which  I  would  not  have  meet  any  other  eye 
than  his  for  a  good  deal,  as  I  entered  largely  into  Regi- 
mental detail.  I  shall  be  very  glad  to  see  Isabella  when 
she  comes  over  here,  but  would  see  her  at  the  devil  before 
I  would  squire  her  about,  for  the  Parisians  laugh  heartily 
at  our  female  costume,  and  there  are  caricatures  of  it  in 
all  the  print  shops.  The  town  swarms  with  English. 
They  gape  about,  and  are  fools  enough  to  admire  the 
greatest  absurdities. 

"  There  are  continual  quarrels  in  Paris,  principally 
among  the  French  themselves.  Some  one  cries — '  Vive 
l'Empereur  !  '  a  row  ensues,  and  two  or  three  people 
generally  lose  their  lives,  or  get  wounded.  The  National 
Guards  behave  admirably  ;  indeed,  but  for  them,  anarchy 
would  soon  prevail.  I  have  no  doubt  that  when  the 
foreign  troops  have  withdrawn  from  the  country,  the 
French  will  kick  out  their  present  lout  of  a  king.3    That 

1  There  was  a  report  that  Mr.  Whitbread  had  been  engaged  in 
some  conspiracy  which  was  discovered,  but  this  does  not  seem  to 
have  been  generally  believed.  2  Sir  Harry  Calvert. 

3  He  died  without  issue  September  16th,  1824. 


i8i5]  A  CHEERY  PARTY  257 

they  may  do  so,  is  my  hearty  wish,  for  he  is  a  great 
beast." 

There  was  some  idea  that  Mrs.  Calvert  might  accompany 
her  daughter  and  son-in-law  to  Paris  about  this  time, 
but  she  was  not  an  intrepid  traveller,  and  could  not  make 
up  her  mind  to  the  thirty  hours'  passage  to  Dieppe. 
Edmond  Knox  and  his  wife  joined  the  expedition,  and 
Felix  gives  an  amusing  account  of  their  visit. 

"  I  was  not  much  surprised  at  their  coming  out,  as  I 
know  when  once  a  woman  has  set  her  heart  upon  any 
expedition,  go  she  will. 

"  They  of  course  are  delighted  with  everything  they  see 
here.  We  dine  every  day  in  the  coffee  room  at  Verrey's 
the  Restaurateur's  near  the  Tuileries  ;  the  four  married 
people  at  one  table,  and  John  and  I  at  another.  The 
reason  we  do  not  mess  together,  is  that  Edmond  is 
caterer,  and  they  are  so  stingy,  they  almost  starve 
themselves,  and  drink  nothing  but  Chablis,  and  Beaune 
Ordinaire.1 

"  Paris  has  a  shocking  effect  upon  the  English.  Its 
demoralising  effects  are  already  visible  in  Mrs.  Edmond 
and  Isabella. 

"  They  walk  all  about  the  camp  with  the  greatest 
sang-froid,  though  the  men  are  running  about,  some 
without  shirts,  and  others  without  inexpressibles.  And 
they  have  accumulated  such  a  heap  of  frippery  under  the 
denomination  of  gowns,  ruffles,  bonnets,  etc.,  that  I 
expect  the  Baronet  and  the  Sailor  will  go  mad.  They  go 
every  night  to  one  or  other  of  the  Theatres,  and  wanted 
to  take  a  box  at  one  of  them  for  this  (Sunday)  if  I  had  not 
remonstrated  with  them  on  the  impropriety  of  it.  They 
have  persuaded  their  foolish  husbands  to  stay  a  week 
longer  than  they  intended,  by  which  time  they  will 
probably  be  quite  spoiled. 

1  Lady  Stronge  adds  in  a  note  to  this  letter  :  "  Don't  believe  a 
word  he  has  been  saying  about  us,  for  we  live  very  well  indeed." 

S 


258    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1815 

"  I  am  in  great  hopes  of  selling  my  old  horse  to  the 
Emperor  of  Austria,1  as  he  is  looking  out  for  English 
mares  to  breed  from.  If  he  takes  a  fancy  to  her,  he  shall 
have  her  cheap.' ' 

On  July  30th  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  going  to  hear  the 
Beggar's  Opera.2  But  she  tells  us  elsewhere  that  she  has 
not  a  musical  soul,  and  though  Miss  Stephens  3  sang,  she 
was  glad  to  get  home.  It  was  much  the  same  thing  when 
she  went  to  the  Regent's  box  with  Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone 
to  see  Miss  O'Neil  as  Juliet :  "  Miss  O'Neil  is  certainly  a 
most  charming  actress,  but  I  hate  tragedies,  and  cannot 
endure  Romeo  and  Juliet."  There  are  people  who  think 
it  the  proper  thing  to  admire  what  they  can  see  no  beauty 
in,  but  Mrs.  Calvert  was  made  of  sterner  stuff  than  that. 


€< 


October  22nd. — Lady  Sarah  Lennox,  the  Duke  of 
Richmond's  daughter,  has  run  off  with  Sir  Peregrine 
Maitland  ;  4  he  has  not  a  penny." 

1  Francis  II,  Emperor  of  Germany,  became  Emperor  of  Austria 
August  nth,  1804. 

2  This  celebrated  piece  was  written  by  John  Gay  in  1727,  and 
was  a  satire  on  the  corrupt  and  venal  politicians  and  courtiers  of 
the  day.  The  overture  was  written  by  Dr.  Pepusch,  who  adapted 
many  of  the  popular  songs  of  the  day  to  Gay's  libretto.  The  success 
of  the  Beggar's  Opera  (brought  out  by  Rich  at  Lincoln's  Inn  Fields 
Theatre)  is  said  to  have  made  "  Gay  Rich,  and  Rich  Gay." 

3  Catherine  Stephens,  the  renowned  vocalist  and  actress,  born 
1794,  was  the  daughter  of  Edward  Stephens,  a  carver  and  gilder 
in  Park  Street,  Grosvenor  Square.  She  first  appeared  at  Covent 
Garden,  September  23rd,  1813,  as  Mandane  in  A rtaxerxes,  and  obtained 
an  immediate  success.  She  was  held  to  have  the  sweetest  soprano 
voice  of  her  time,  a  natural  manner,  and  a  simple  style  ;  and  as  a 
ballad  singer  was  unequalled.  She  retired  in  1835,  and  three  years 
later  married  at  5  Belgrave  Square,  George,  5th  Earl  of  Essex,  an 
octogenarian  widower,  who  died  just  a  year  later.  Lady  Essex  sur- 
vived him  forty-three  years,  dying  in  1882,  in  the  house  in  which  she 
was  married. 

4  It  was  on  account  of  his  poverty  that  the  Duke  refused  his  con- 
sent. Sir  Peregrine,  who  was  extremely  handsome,  afterwards  be- 
came Governor  of  the  Cape.  But  the  Duchess  of  Richmond  always 
spoke  contemptuously  of  her  daughter  as  "  Barrack  Sal."  Lady 
Sarah  died  in  1873. 


i8i6]      QUEEN  CHARLOTTE  AT  BRIGHTON       259 

In  November  Lady  Pery  and  the  Stronges  joined  the 
family  party  at  Brighton,  and  they  all  went  together  to 
a  little  dance  at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's.  The  Regent  paid  a 
few  flying  visits  to  the  Pavilion,  which  the  following 
month  was  being  prepared  for  the  reception  of  Queen 
Charlotte  and  the  Princesses,  who  at  last  arrived  with  a 
great  train  of  nobility. 

"  December  ijth. — The  Duke  of  Clarence  walked  with 
me  three  days,  went  in  with  me  to  see  my  mother  and 
Isabella,  and  in  short  has  been  as  kind  and  attentive  as 
possible.  But  the  Prince  has  never  invited  us,  and  I  fear 
will  not  do  so.  The  parties  are  very  small,  but  I  had 
hopes  which  are  now  ended. 

"  December  21st. — On  Tuesday  I  received  an  invitation 
to  the  Pavilion.  The  Queen  and  Princesses  were  very 
gracious  to  me ;  the  Prince  very  civil,  but  somehow  I  did 
not  think  his  manner  as  kind  as  usual.  It  may  have  been 
my  fancy  ;  however  I  am  glad  I  was  asked. 

"  Felix's  regiment  is  returned  from  France  and  is  to 
remain  in  England,  which  I  am  delighted  at.  It  is  at 
present  quartered  at  Sheerness. 

"  1816.  January  1st,  Hunsdon  House. — Lucy  Pery x 
is  going  to  be  married  to  a  Mr.  Stephenson,  a  young  man 
of  good  character,  and  his  father  has  £14,000  per  annum. 
Lady  Limerick  wrote  me  word  in  great  joy  about  it. 

"  I  walk  constantly,  and  play  battledore  and  shuttle- 
cock, to  keep  myself  from  growing  fat.  The  times  make 
me  often  low.  The  tenants  can't  pay,  and  we  are  very 
poor.  I  fear  we  shall  never  be  able  to  have  a  house  in 
town,  though  I  felt  so  sure  of  one  this  year.  Well !  it 
will  be  all  the  same  a  hundred  years  hence.  That  is  my 
only  comfort. 

"  January  21st. — Sir  Robert  Wilson,  Captain  Hutchin- 

1  Lady  Lucy  Pery,  third  daughter  of  Lord  Limerick,  married 
March  16th,  1816,  Rowland  Stephenson,  who  afterwards  took  the 
name  of  Standish.  They  lived  much  in  Italy,  and  at  Florence  the 
Casa  Standish  was  well  known.    Lady  Lucy  died  1845. 


26o    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1816 

son  and  Mr.  Crawford  are  taken  up  in  Paris  for  having 
favoured  the  escape  of  Lavallette.  It  seems  a  very 
strange  business." 

The  story  of  Antoine  M.  Chamans,  Comte  de  La  Valette, 
is  one  of  the  most  romantic  episodes  in  modern  French 
History.  He  was  born  in  Paris  1769.  He  was,  as  one  of 
the  National  Guards,  devoted  to  Marie  Antoinette,  and 
remained  faithful  to  the  Royal  Family  until  obliged  as 
his  only  chance  for  life  to  join  the  Army.  He  became 
aide-de-camp  to  Napoleon,  who  made  a  match  between 
him  and  Emilie  de  Beauharnais,  niece  of  Josephine's 
first  husband. 

On  the  downfall  of  Napoleon,  and  return  of  Louis 
XVIII,  La  Valette  was  arrested,  and  sent  to  the  Con- 
ciergerie,  not  indeed  by  the  King's  desire,  but  he  was 
overpowered  by  the  ultra-Royalists. 

On  December  21st,  1815,  the  evening  before  the  day 
fixed  for  her  husband's  execution,  Mme.  de  La  Valette 
managed  to  effect  his  escape  by  disguising  him  in  the  same 
way  that  Lady  Nithsdale  rescued  her  husband,  and  she 
stayed  in  prison  in  his  stead.  La  Valette  remained  hiding 
in  Paris  for  nearly  two  months.  Eventually  he  put  on 
the  uniform  of  an  English  colonel  at  the  house  of  Captain 
Hutchinson,  and  drove  through  Paris  with  the  English 
General,  Sir  R.  Wilson.  At  the  frontier  they  parted,  Sir 
R.  W.  returning  to  Paris,  where  he  was  arrested.  His 
two  countrymen,  Bruce  and  Hutchinson,  shared  the 
same  fate,  and  were  sentenced  to  three  months'  imprison- 
ment. 

In  1822  La  Valette  was  allowed  to  return  to  Paris. 
Poor  Mme.  de  La  Valette  suffered  severely  for  her 
wifely  devotion.  After  being  imprisoned  for  a  short 
time,  she  went  out  of  her  mind,  and  never  recovered.    She 


i8i6]  AGRICULTURAL  DISTRESS  261 

is  buried  with  her  husband,  in  Pere-la-Chaise.     (Taken 
mostly  from  Links  with  the  Past,  by  Mrs.  Bagot.) 

"  January  28th. — Poor  George  Knox  has  lost  his  wife.1 
She  has  been  very  long  dying  of  a  consumption." 

Lady  Pery  had  a  dangerous  illness  about  this  time 
which  much  alarmed  her  daughters,  but  from  this  she 
entirely  recovered,  and  at  the  end  of  a  month  Mrs. 
Calvert  describes  her  as  "  remarkably  well." 

"  February  2jth. — The  Prince  of  Saxe  Coburg  2  is 
arrived.  He  is  certainly  to  be  married  to  Princess  Char- 
lotte of  Wales.  Times  are  terribly  gloomy — the  agri- 
cultural distress  dreadful." 

The  cause  for  this  was  not  far  to  seek.  The  peace  that 
closed  the  great  war  with  Napoleon  left  Britain  feverish 
and  exhausted.  The  pressure  of  the  heavy  taxation,  and 
of  the  debt,  which  now  reached  eight  hundred  millions, 
was  embittered  by  the  general  distress  of  the  country. 
The  scarcity  caused  by  a  series  of  bad  harvests  was 
intensified  by  the  selfish  legislation  of  the  landowners  in 
Parliament.  Conscious  that  the  prosperity  of  English 
agriculture  was  merely  factitious,  and  rested  on  the  high 
price  of  corn  produced  by  the  war,  they  prohibited  by  an 
Act  passed  in  1815  the  introduction  of  foreign  corn,  till 
wheat  had  reached  famine  prices. 

Society,  too,  was  disturbed  by  the  great  change  of 
employment  consequent  on  a  sudden  return  to  peace 
after  twenty  years  of  war,  and  by  the  disbanding  of  the 
immense  forces  employed  at  sea  and  on  land.  The  move- 
ment against  machinery,  which  had  been  put  down  in 

1  The  Right  Hon.  George  Knox  had  married,  secondly,  Harriet, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Fortescue,  Esq.,  by  whom  he  left  a  son  and  a 
daughter. 

2  He  became  Leopold  I,  King  of  the  Belgians,  in  183 1. 


262    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1816 

1812,  revived  in  formidable  riots,  and  the  distress  of  the 
rural  poor  brought  about  a  rapid  increase  of  crime. 
(Green's  Short  History  of  the  English  People,  page  1831.) 

"  March  15th. — The  Regent  has  had  a  relapse,  and  is  ill 
at  Brighton.  They  say  he  has  got  a  stone  in  his  bladder, 
and  is  dropsical.  If  this  is  true,  he  will  not,  poor  man,  be 
long  for  this  world.  The  Prince  of  Saxe  Coburg  is,  they 
say,  very  amiable.  He  stays  at  Brighton  for  the  benefit 
of  the  baths.  But  many  say  it  is  because  the  Princess  is 
so  coming.  It  is  not  reconed  safe  that  they  should  be  too 
much  together  before  the  knot  is  tied.  It  is  said  that  the 
wedding  takes  place  on  the  16th  of  April,  that  they  are 
to  inhabit  Camelford  House,  and  that  the  Prince  is  to 
be  created  Duke  of  Kendal — an  odd  thing  to  give  him  the 
title  of  George  the  First's  mistress  !  I  hear  the  Princess 
Charlotte  says  she  is  the  happiest  creature  in  the  world. 
I  hope  he  will  be  able  to  keep  her  in  order,  for  I  have  not 
the  very  highest  opinion  of  her. 

"  April  14th. — The  wedding  is  put  off  to  the  25th. 

"  Park  Street,  May  $th. — Princes  Charlotte  was  married 
last  Thursday.  I  hear  she  read  her  prayers  with  the 
greatest  devotion,  and  made  her  responses  quite  loud. 
As  soon  as  she  was  married,  she  went  on  her  knees  to  her 
father,  who  gave  her  his  blessing,  in  a  most  impressive  and 
graceful  manner.  They  went  to  the  Oatlands  after  the 
ceremony. 

"  I  saw  Lady  Al thorp  yesterday.  She  is  grown  im- 
mensely fat.  She  says  she  is  the  happiest  creature  in  the 
world — nothing  wanting  but  a  child. 

"  May  12th. — On  Monday  night  Fanny  and  I  went  to 
a  small  party  at  Lady  Francis  Douglas's,  on  Tuesday  to  a 
ball  at  Mrs.  Gage's.  There  was  but  one  set  of  country 
dances,  all  the  rest  was  waltzing  and  quadrille." 

It  was  not  until  after  the  peace  that  quadrilles  were 
introduced  from  France,  and  at  first  there  were  very  few 
people  who  knew  how  to  dance  them.  Many  people 
could  not  waltz,  or  did  not  approve  of  it,  and  the  proper 


i8i6]  FRANCES  CALVERT  263 

thing  was  after  each  dance  for  a  partner  to  bring  his  young 
lady  back  to  her  mother  and  make  her  a  bow.  Such  a 
thing  as  sitting  out  was  unheard  of  at  that  time,  and 
indeed  for  many  years  afterwards. 

"  On  Friday  we  went  to  a  great  Assembly  at  Lady 
Cardigan's.1  I  hear  that  Fanny  is  reckoned  very  pretty. 
I  really  think  she  looks  so,  and  she  is  very  lady-like." 

Frances  Calvert  never  married.  She  died  in  1862,  at 
William  Street,  Knightsbridge,  the  house  of  her  sister-in- 
law,  Mrs.  Nicolson  Calvert.  I  can  dimly  remember  her 
face  in  a  close  white  cap  ;  it  was  still  beautiful,  but 
almost  severe  in  its  expression  of  intense  earnestness  and 
thought. 

She  took  great  interest  in  the  building  of  All  Saints', 
Margaret  Street,  and  contributed  largely  to  the  funds  col- 
lected for  it.  A  chair  was  always  kept  for  her  as  long  as 
she  was  able  to  attend  church.  Her  first  name  was 
Lavinia,  after  a  little  sister  who  died  young.  When  she 
grew  up,  she  begged  to  be  called  by  her  second  name, 
because  people  would  call  her  the  lovely  young  Lavinia, 
after  a  song  much  in  vogue  at  that  time. 

"  I  hear  that  Princess  Charlotte  had  to  sit  half  an  hour 
in  her  carriage  the  evening  she  was  married,  waiting  for 
her  bridegroom  who  could  not  find  his  great  coat.  When 
the  Regent  heard  it,  he  exclaimed  in  a  great  rage 
'  Damn  his  great  coat !  '  But  how  true  this  may  be  I 
know  not." 

1  Robert,  6th  Earl  of  Cardigan,  married  1794  Penelope  Anne, 
daughter  of  George  Cooke,  of  Harefield  Park,  Middlesex.  She  died 
1826. 


CHAPTER    XX 

A  Levee  and  a  Drawing-room — "  An  antiquated  couple  " — 
Princess  Charlotte  at  Camelford  House — The  Argyle  Rooms 
in  1816 — The  Ladies  of  Llangollen — A  visit  to  Tynan  Abbey 
— Colonel  and  Mrs.  Brownlow — Lord  Hare  wood — An  unex- 
pected legacy — A  broken  heart — Unpopularity  of  the  Regent 
— Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone's  engagement. 

"  May  19th,  1816.    Park  Street. 

I  AST  Tuesday  we  came  to  town.     Mr.  C.  went  to 
the  Levee  at  Carlton  House,  and  on  Thursday 
Fanny  and   I   went  to  the  Drawing   Room. 
^J  Really  I   was  much  pleased — she  looked  so 
pretty.     She  was  dressed  in  white  satin,  and 
draperies  of  figured  gauze  tied  up  with  bunches  of  roses. 
The  feathers  became  her,  and  altogether  I  was  well  satis- 
fied with  her  appearance. 

"  We  were  most  graciously  received  by  the  Queen  and 
Princess  Elizabeth,1  and  Princess  Charlotte  curtsied  as 
we  passed.  She  looked  very  handsome,  and  Prince 
Leopold  is  a  very  good  looking  soldier -like  person- 
age. 

"  Lady  Smith  Burges  and  Lord  Poulett,2  an  antiquated 
couple,  are  going  to  be  married,  and  were  flirting  away 
at  Mrs.  Egerton's  party,  where  we  met  the  Duke  of 
Clarence. 

"  June  gth. — To-day  I  have  been  to  Church,  and  since 

1  Princess  Elizabeth  married  18 18  H.S.H.  the  Prince  of  Hesse- 
Homburg,  and  died  1840. 

2  John,  4th  Earl  Poulett,  was  born  1756,  and  married,  secondly, 
Margaret,  daughter  and  sole  heiress  of  Ynyr  Burges,  Esq.,  of  East 
Ham,  and  relict  of  Sir  John  Smith  Burges,  Bart. 

264 


i8i6]  CAMELFORD  HOUSE  265 

then  to  enquire  at  Camelford  House  *  for  Princess  Char- 
lotte, who  has  been  ill. 

"  I  hear  of  nothing,  but  how  happy  she  is  with  her 
husband. 

"  He  was  in  such  a  state  of  agitation  when  she  was 
bled  the  other  day  that  it  made  her  worse,  and  they  were 
obliged  to  get  him  out  of  her  room. 

"  Report  gives  Princess  Sophia  2  to  the  Duke  of  Cam- 
bridge.3 

"  June  16th. — On  Monday  we  dined  at  Grosvenor 
Street,  and  went  to  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  after  going  to  Lady 
Beauchamp's. 4  They  were  both  balls.  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert's was  the  finest  of  the  fine — Lady  Jersey  5  and 
all  her  set — the  Dukes  of  York,  Clarence  and  Kent. 
Quadrilles  and  waltzing  were  the  order  of  the  day,  and 
we  got  very  tired  of  it  although  so  fine.  To  say  the  truth  a 
less  fine  place  would  have  been  pleasanter. 

"  On  Thursday  Fanny  and  I  dined  at  home,  and  went 
to  the  French  play  in  Argyle  Rooms,6  which  we  liked 
very  much." 

In  July  Mrs.  Calvert,  with  her  children  Edmond  and 
Fanny,  started  off  for  Ireland,  Lady  Stronge  being  in  a 

1  Camelford  House,  Park  Lane,  was  let  to  Prince  Leopold  and 
Princess  Charlotte,  when  they  first  married.  It  was  called  after 
Pitt,  Lord  Camelford,  and  the  widow  of  the  last  Lord  Camelford  died 
there  in  1803.  The  front  of  the  house  is  towards  Oxford  Street,  and 
the  entrance  at  the  side.  It  is  remarkable  for  nothing  but  its  dingy 
appearance. 

2  Princess  Sophia,  fifth  daughter  of  George  III,  died  unmarried  in 
1848. 

3  Adolphus,  Duke  of  Cambridge,  married  18 18  Princess  Augusta 
of  Hesse-Cassel. 

4  The  1st  Earl  Beauchamp  married  Catherine,  only  daughter  of 
James  Denn,  Esq. 

6  Lady  Jersey's  sobriquet  was  "  Silence,"  probably  on  account  of 
her  talent  for  conversation. 

6  The  Argyle  Rooms  formerly  stood  at  the  corner  of  Little  Argyle 
Street.  They  were  founded  under  the  auspices  of  Colonel  Greville, 
a  noted  sportsman  and  man  about  town  under  the  Regency.  He 
purchased  a  large  house  and  turned  it  into  a  place  of  entertainment 
as  a  rival  to  the  Pantheon.  In  18 18  the  rooms  were  rebuilt  in  a  hand- 
some style  by  Nash  the  architect,  but  the  building  was  burnt  down 
in  1850. 


266    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1816 

delicate  state  of  health.  They  travelled  as  usual  in  the 
barouche,  and  as  it  had  been  such  an  unhealthy  season, 
Mrs.  Calvert  thought  it  necessary  to  fumigate  the  beds 
at  the  inns  where  she  stayed.  I  wonder  who  would  take 
such  precautions  nowadays  ! 

At  Llangollen  she  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  two  old 
friends,  Miss  Ponsonby  and  Lady  Eleanor  Butler,  the 
celebrated  "  Ladies  of  Llangollen." 

"  luh  3yd- — They  received  me  with  the  greatest 
possible  cordiality,  and  I  really  thought  I  should  never 
have  got  away.  I  have  not  seen  them  for  twenty  six 
years,  and  they  assured  me  I  was  not  the  least  altered. 
Alas  !  I  wish  I  could  believe  them.  They  walked  back 
to  the  inn  with  us,  not  to  lose  a  moment  of  my  delightful 
society.    This  house  is  a  beautiful,  romantic  little  place."  x 

1  Lady  Eleanor  Butler  was  the  third  daughter  of  Walter  Butler, 
by  his  wife  Eleanor,  eldest  daughter  of  Nicholas  Morris  of  The  Court, 
Co.  Dublin.  Her  only  brother,  John,  established  his  right  to  the 
ancient  family  title  in  1790,  and  became  the  17th  Earl  of  Ormonde. 

Miss  Sarah  Ponsonby  (called  by  Lady  Eleanor  "  Zara  ")  was  the 
daughter  of  Chambre  Brabazon  Ponsonby,  m.p.,  by  his  second  wife, 
Louisa,  daughter  of  John  Lyons  of  The  Mount,  Co.  Westmeath. 
The  history  of  these  remarkable  ladies  is  full  of  incident.  By  a  singular 
coincidence  they  were  both  born  in  Dublin,  according  to  some  accounts 
on  the  same  day  in  the  same  year.  They  were  brought  up  together, 
and  passed  much  of  their  youth  at  Kilkenny  Castle,  the  country 
seat  of  Lord  Ormonde.  In  the  year  1778  they  embarked  in  a  Welsh 
trader,  and  were  landed  among  the  romantic  mountains  of  North 
Wales.  They  settled  down  at  Plas  Newydd,  in  the  lovely  vale  of 
Llangollen.  Here  they  spent  over  fifty  years  under  one  roof,  in  wonder- 
ful peace  and  harmony,  occupied  with  good  works  and  charitable 
deeds.  Though  they  called  themselves  recluses,  they  were  often 
visited  by  old  friends,  many  of  whom  were  well  known  to  fame.  Both 
Scott  and  Wordsworth  came  to  see  them,  also  the  Duke  of  Wellington. 
Madame  de  Genlis,  who  has  done  them  but  justice  in  her  Souvenirs  de 
Fe'licie,  visited  them,  accompanied  by  her  young  protegee,  Mdlle. 
d' Orleans.  In  1796  they  received  a  visit  from  Miss  Anna  Seward,  who 
has  paid  them  a  beautiful  tribute  in  her  poem  Llangollen  Vale.  The 
following  description  of  them  was  written  by  Prince  Piickler-Muskau 
in  a  letter  to  a  friend  after  visiting  them  in  1828  :  "  Both  wore  the 
hair,  which  is  quite  full  yet,  combed  down  straight  and  powdered, 
a  gentleman's  round  hat,  a  gentleman's  cravat  and  waistcoat,  instead 
of  the  *  inexpressibles,'  however,  a  short  Jupon,  and  gentleman's 
boots.    The  whole  was  covered  by  an  overdress  of  blue  cloth  of  quite 


mm 


THE    LADIES    OF    LLANGOLLEN 
From  the  collection  of  the  Countess  of  Bessborough 


i8i6]  TYNAN  ABBEY  267 

News  met  the  travellers  at  Capel  Curig  that  Lady 
Stronge's  little  son  had  arrived  somewhat  prematurely. 
They  reached  Dublin  after  a  good  passage  of  seventeen 
hours  from  Holyhead,  and  found  the  invalid,  as  usual, 
quickly  recovering.  But  the  weather  was  wet,  and  poor 
Mrs.  Calvert  (in  spite  of  Fanny  in  her  room,  and  the 
faithful  Timewell  close  by)  suffered  much  from  nocturnal 
terrors,  for  there  were  workmen  in  the  house,  and  Tynan 
Abbey  for  the  most  part  devoid  of  doors  or  windows. 
She  politely  concealed  her  feelings,  but  was  delighted 
to  start  for  home  again. 

On  the  way  she  stopped  at  a  relation's  house,1  but  the 
visit  was  hardly  a  success. 

"  He  is  my  Mother's  first  cousin,  remarkably  gentle- 
manly, but  cold  hearted  (I  think)  and  selfish,  as  I  under- 
stand things." 

Mrs.  Brownlow  also  came  in  for  some  scathing  criticism. 

"  His  wife  is  a  Comedy.  She  has  been  a  beauty,  and 
still  a  fine  figure,  dresses  in  the  extreme  of  fashion  with 
her  petticoats  up  to  her  knees. 

"  She  is  affectation  personify  ed,  and  I  actually  could 
often  scarcely  keep  my  countenance.  Her  daughters  are 
really  pretty  and  pleasing,  but  also  tinctured  with  affecta- 

a  peculiar  cut,  keeping  the  middle  between  a  gentleman's  overcoat 
and  a  lady's  riding  habit.  Over  all  this  '  toggery  '  Lady  Eleanor 
wore  (1)  the  grand  cordon  of  the  Order  of  Saint-Louis  round  her 
waist  ;  (2)  the  same  Order  round  her  neck  ;  (3)  the  small  cross  of  the 
same  Order  in  the  button-hole  ;  et  pour  comble  de  gloire,  a  silver  lily 
of  almost  natural  size  as  a  star  ;  on  her  breast — all  these  being,  as  she 
told  me,  presents  from  the  Bourbon  family."  Lady  Eleanor  later 
became  quite  blind,  and  passed  away  on  June  2nd,  1829.  Her  desolate 
friend  and  companion  lived  on  till  December  8th,  1831.  They  were 
buried  in  the  churchyard  at  Plas  Newydd,  where  there  was  erected 
a  triangular  pyramid  with  three  tablets,  which  are  inscribed  with 
the  names  of  Lady  Eleanor  Butler,  Miss  Sarah  Ponsonby,  and  their 
faithful  friend  and  servant,  Mary  Carryl. 

1  Lieut. -Colonel  Charles  Brownlow  of  Lurgan,  an  ancestor  of  the 
present  Lord  Lurgan.  He  was  born  1757,  and  married  1785  Caroline, 
daughter  of  Benjamin  Ashe,  Esq.,  of  Bath. 


268    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1816 

tion  (not  so  bad  as  the  mother).  It  poured  all  the  after- 
noon and  evening,  and  I  was  rather  tired  of  my  visit. 
We  were  sent  to  bed  supperless  at  half  past  twelve.  I 
happened  to  be  very  hungry,  not  having  eat  much  dinner, 
and  was  looking  forward  with  great  gusto  to  my  supper, 
when  some  iced  water  *  was  brought  in,  and  no  other 
thing  offered.  I  really  could  not  go  to  sleep  for  a  long 
while,  wishing  for  something  to  eat. 

"  On  the  way  home  we  stopped  at  Harewood,  intending 
to  go  on,  but  were  so  kindly  pressed  to  stay  there,  that 
we  passed  the  day  with  them.  In  addition  to  the  old 
Lord,2  Lord  and  Lady  Lascelles  and  a  lovely  family  of 
children,  General  Crawford,  and  the  Dowager  Duchess  of 
Newcastle,3  to  whom  he  is  married,  and  Miss  Hall,  a 
niece  of  Lord  H.'s,  were  there.  Edmond  was  very  happy 
with  his  friend  Edwin  Lascelles,  with  whom  he  had  been 
at  Dr.  Birch's.  The  house  is  very  handsome  and  very 
comfortable,  and  the  place  is  very  pretty.  We  walked 
about  a  good  deal  in  spite  of  the  storm,  but  did  not  ven- 
ture in  a  carriage  as  the  wind  was  so  high,  the  coachman 
said  it  would  be  unsafe  in  the  high  grounds.  I  played  at 
Whist  with  Lord  H.  at  night. 

"  Early  in  the  morning  we  took  our  departure  and 
breakfasted  at  Ferrybridge.  We  slept  that  night  at 
Newark  in  the  house  where  I  spent  such  a  wretched  two 
or  three  days  at  the  time  I  set  off  with  my  sister  for  Ire- 
land and  stopped.  I  slept  in  the  same  bed,  and  we  sat 
in  the  same  room.  The  mistress  of  the  house  recognised 
my  voice  the  instant  she  heard  me. 

"  We  breakfasted  next  morning  at  Grantham,  stopping 
to  see  Burleigh,  with  which  Fanny  and  Edmond  were 
delighted. 

1  This  rather  upsets  the  idea  that  "  iced  water  "  is  a  modern 
institution  introduced  from  America. 

2  Edward  Lascelles,  ist  Earl  of  Harewood,  born  1740,  died  1820, 
was  succeeded  by  his  only  son,  Henry,  Viscount  Lascelles,  born  1767, 
who  married  Henrietta,  daughter  of  Lieut. -General  Sir  John  Sebright, 
and  died  1841. 

3  Thomas,  3rd  Duke  of  Newcastle,  married  1782  Anna  Maria, 
youngest  daughter  of  the  2nd  Earl  of  Harrington.  He  died  1795, 
and  her  Grace  married  1800  Lieut. -General  Sir  Charles  Crawford,  g.c.b. 


i8i6]  AN  UNEXPECTED  LEGACY  269 

"  We  got  up  between  four  and  five  yesterday  and 
arrived  at  home  to  breakfast.  All  well,  thank  God  !  and 
in  raptures  at  seeing  us.  My  beloved  Husband  seems  to 
be  so  happy  at  having  me  again,  that  I  feel  quite  flattered, 
and  am  indeed  glad  to  be  with  him  and  my  darlings  again." 

During  Mrs.  Calvert's  absence  in  Ireland,  her  wish  for 
a  house  in  town  had  been  unexpectedly  fulfilled.  Mr. 
Tash,  her  old  enemy,  had  died  quite  suddenly,  leaving 
his  house  in  Wimpole  Street  to  his  wife's  nephew,  Mr. 
Calvert,  who,  as  his  residuary  legatee,  would  probably  in- 
herit a  further  sum  of  £20,000,  a  "  very  welcome  windfall 
in  these  hard  times."  Mr.  C.  gallantly  begged  his  wife 
to  accept  the  house  as  a  present  from  him.  There  is  no 
rose  without  a  thorn  !  Though  very  comfortable  for  its 
size,  and  very  clean,  Mrs.  Calvert  finds  her  new  house 
inconveniently  far  from  the  part  of  London  she  is  most 
used  to.  She  does  not,  however,  seem  to  have  entertained 
the  idea  of  selling  it,  though  her  husband  had  given  her 
full  permission  to  do  so  if  she  wished. 

The  autumn  was  then,  as  now,  the  time  for  country 
visits,  and  Mrs.  Calvert  and  her  husband  paid  several 
after  her  return  from  Ireland  in  September. 

"  On  Wednesday  we  went  to  Cassiobury,  Lord  Essex's,1 
which  is  a  very  pretty  house,  and  more  full  of  comforts, 
curiosities,  and  pretty  things  than  any  house  I  ever  saw. 
Lord  2  and  Lady  Holland,  Lord  Auckland,3  and  several 

1  George  Capel,  5th  Earl  of  Essex,  born  1757,  married  first,  1786, 
Sarah,  daughter  of  Henry  Bazett,  Esq.,  of  St.  Helena.  She  died  1838, 
Lord  Essex  married  the  same  year  Catherine  Stephens,  born  1794,  the 
celebrated  actress,  and  d.s.p.  1839. 

2  Richard,  3rd  Lord  Holland,  born  1773,  married  in  1797  Elizabeth, 
daughter  and  heiress  of  Richard  Vassall,  and  widow  of  Sir  Godfrey 
Webster,  Bart.  She  was  extremely  witty,  and  Holland  House  was 
for  many  years  the  rendezvous  of  literary  celebrities.  Lady  Holland 
died  in  1840. 

3  George,  2nd  Lord  Auckland,  born  1784,  was  Governor-General  of 
India,  and  died  1849. 


270    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY  [1816 

more  men  were  in  the  house.  Lady  Holland  is  a  very  fat, 
large  woman,  and  except  that  she  kept  her  page  waiting 
behind  her  chair  after  all  the  servants  had  left  the  room, 
I  saw  nothing  different  in  her  from  other  women,  but  they 
say  she  was  in  one  of  her  quiet,  well  behaved  moods,  so 
I  was  disappointed  in  being  amused  by  her.  Lord  Holland 
seems  a  very  amiable  man.    It  is  a  pity  he  is  so  matched. 

"  On  Thursday,  Lady  Essex  took  us  all  over  her  flower 
gardens,  which,  I  believe,  are  the  most  complete  in  Eng- 
land. She  afterwards  took  us  in  her  Park  carriage  (which 
goes  sideways  and  holds  a  great  many  people),  all  over 
the  Park.    On  Friday  we  came  home. 

"  The  weather  is  very  unfavourable.  Terrible  accounts 
of  the  crops ;  much  despondency  everywhere.  God 
knows  where  it  will  end  ! 

"  Felix  arrived  on  leave  from  Guernsey,  bringing  beau- 
tiful presents  of  scarves  and  shawls.  He  has  brought  me 
a  picture  of  himself,  which  though  a  frightful  thing,  shows 
such  a  kind  attention  to  me,  that  it  gratifies  me  much." 

Soon  after  this,  Felix  and  Edmond  Calvert  went  into 
Norfolk  to  look  at  some  hunters  of  Sir  William  Hoste's,1 
and  the  former  was  considered  to  have  made  a  great 
bargain  when  he  bought  three  for  £250. 

At  the  Hertford  Ball  Mr.  Brand  incurred  Mrs.  Calvert's 
wrath  by  paying  her  and  Fanny  no  attention  whatever, 
although  he  was  one  of  the  stewards,  and  introduced 
partners  to  everyone  else. 

"  There  we  sat  solitary.  Captain  Byron  whispered  to 
Walter  that  it  was  a  crying  shame  to  see  her,  the  prettiest 
girl  in  the  room,  sitting  by,  and  did  he  think  she  would 

1  Sir  William  Hoste,  Bart.,  k.c.b.,  k.m.t.,  a  distinguished  naval 
officer.  He  was  created  a  baronet  in  1814,  in  consideration  of  his 
gallant  services  upon  divers  occasions,  but  particularly  for  the  victory- 
he  had  achieved  over  the  combined  French  and  Italian  squadrons, 
at  the  head  of  four  frigates,  after  a  brilliant  action  of  six  hours,  March 
13th,  181 1,  off  the  island  of  Lissa.  He  was  born  1780,  and  married 
18 1 7  Lady  Harriet  Walpole,  fourth  daughter  of  Horatio,  2nd  Earl 
of  Orford.    Sir  William  died  in  1828. 


i8i6]  A  BROKEN  HEART  271 

stand  up  with  him  ?  Walter  advised  him  to  try,  and 
accordingly  she  did.  But  not  in  a  hurry  shall  I  forgive 
Mr.  Brand  or  Lord  Cranbourne  (who  even  danced  with 
one  of  the  Caswalls),  for  not  asking  her,  and  I  came  home 
completely  disgruntled,  and  she  looked  so  particularly  well. 
"  Mary  Pery  is  going  to  be  married  to  a  Mr.  Wrightson, 
a  clergyman,  and  a  younger  son — a  poor  match,  and  not 
much  to  the  satisfaction  of  her  family.  Limerick  is  in 
Ireland,  and  I  believe  it  will  not  be  officially  announced 
until  his  return." 

The  marriage,  however,  never  took  place.  Lord 
Limerick's  consent  had  so  long  been  withheld  that  his 
daughter  fretted  herself  into  ill-health,  and  died,  it  is 
said,  of  a  broken  heart,  a  sore  grief  to  her  father,  for  she 
was  his  favourite  daughter. 

While  staying  in  Grosvenor  Street,  Mrs.  Calvert  went 
to  see  Miss  O'Neil  as  "  Lady  Townley  "  in  The  Provoked 
Husband.  They  did  not  particularly  admire  her  in  it, 
but  were  delighted  with  Kemble  as  "  Lord  Townley." 

"  Elizabeth  Burgoyne,  and  her  cousin,  Miss  Wilbraham, 
came  to  stay  a  night  at  Hunsdon  House.  Miss  W.  is 
rather  pretty,  but  affected  and  fine,  and  is  the  dear 
friend  of  all  the  Grandees  that  are  talked  of." 

Evidently  then,  as  now,  there  was  nothing  so  well- 
bred  as  simplicity. 

"  There  have  been  riots  in  London,  and  though  at 
present  quelled,  I  should  think  them  very  likely  to  break 
out  again.    These  are,  indeed,  perilous  times. 

"  On  Thursday  Major  and  Mrs.  Stewart  dined  and  slept 
here.  The  Smiths  of  Parndon  were  to  have  done  the  same. 
We  waited  dinner  till  seven  for  them,  but  they  never 
arrived,  and  yesterday  came  their  excuse  in  a  copy  of 
verses,  saying  they  had  set  out,  but  found  the  waters  so 
deep,  they  were  forced  to  return." 

It  is  to  be  hoped  that  the  cook  forgave  them. 


272    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

"  1817. — The  Regent  was  insulted  while  going  to  the 
House  of  Lords,  and  his  windows  broken  by  stones.  Lord 
James  Murray,1  who  was  in  the  carriage,  and  reported  it  to 
the  House  of  Lords,  said  that  a  pistol  had  been  fired,  but 
no  bullet  found.  There  seem  great  doubts  about  it.  At 
all  events  His  Royal  Highness  was  pretty  well  frightened 
and  as  there  is  such  a  bad  spirit  about,  the  10th  Regi- 
ment are  ordered  up  from  Brighton. 

"  Edmond  comes  up  on  Tuesday  to  London  to  begin 
being  a  brewer.2 

"  He  will  live  with  his  uncle  Charles  until  his  rooms 
at  the  brew  house  are  ready.  I  find  my  house  very  com- 
fortable indeed,  and  am  very  grateful  to  Mr.  Tash  for 
leaving  it  to  me. 

"  March  2jth. — This  morning  at  eight  o'clock  my 
beloved  Felix  came  into  my  room  to  take  leave  of  me. 
I  felt  very  sad  when  I  heard  his  barouche  drive  from  the 
door.  He  is  going  to  travel  for  some  time  but  I  hope  to 
see  him  in  June  in  Switzerland.  Fanny  and  I  are  going 
there  in  May,  with  Isabella,  Sir  James,  Edmond  Knox 
and  Jenny.  Mr.  C.  is  to  follow  when  Parliament  is  up, 
and  will  meet  us  in  Paris. 

"  Miss  Mercer  Elphinstone  is  going  to  be  married  to 
M.  de  Flahault,  a  foreigner,  a  bald  headed  man,  without 
fortune,  character,  or  birth.3  He  was  aide-de-camp  to 
Bonaparte  and  is  a  natural  son  of  Talleyrand. 

"  In  consequence  of  this  pretty  match,  Lord  Keith 
means  to  cut  her  off  as  far  as  he  has  the  power.  Never- 
theless she  will  be  Lady  Keith  at  his  death  and  besides 
£6,000  a  year,  she  has  £30,000  in  right  of  her  mother."4 

1  Second  son  of  the  4th  Duke  of  Athole.  He  was  born  1782,  and 
died  1837. 

2  Calvert's  Brewery  was  in  Thames  Street.  Many  members  of  the 
family  lost  money  by  its  failure  in  1858. 

3  Though  Mrs.  Calvert  does  not  seem  much  impressed  by  M.  de 
Flahault's  looks,  he  was  the  original  "  jeune  et  beau  Dunois,"  the  hero 
of  Partant  pour  la  Syne. 

4  It  was  said  that  she  gave  up  an  inheritance  of  ^30,000  a  year  to 
marry  Flahault.  "She  has  a  warm  heart,  but  a  cold  head,"  wrote 
Princess  Lieven  to  her  brother. 


CHAPTER    XXI 

Mrs.  Calvert  on  her  travels — Youth  and  crabbed  age — Contra- 
band goods — Arrival  at  Brussels — La  Belle  et  la  Jolie — A 
group  of  regicides — Bonaparte  at  Laeken — Lady  Clancarty 
at  the  Embassy — A  visit  to  Antwerp — Mrs.  Calvert  at 
Waterloo — Jane  Shore — A  journey  to  Spa — The  smells  of 
Cologne — Sight-seeing — Napoleon  as  a  landscape  gardener. 

1817. 

IT  was  on  May  1st,  1817,  that  Mrs.  Calvert  started 
on  her  first  trip  abroad.  Was  it  a  success  ?  We 
are  not  certain.  She  had  at  any  rate  the  advantage 
of  charming  company.  Sir  James  and  Lady 
Stronge,  Edmond  Knox  and  his  most  amiable  and  de- 
lightful wife  made  up  a  party  with  which  it  would  have 
been  hard  for  the  most  captious  person  to  find  fault.  But 
at  nearly  fifty  years  of  age,  the  charm  of  novelty  is 
nothing  compared  with  that  of  comfort.  Mrs.  Calvert  felt 
ill,  and  had  a  dread  of  growing  worse  and  perhaps  dying 
in  a  foreign  land  far  from  her  beloved  husband,  and  her 
home. 

It  is  true,  however,  that  our  worst  misfortunes  are 
those  which  never  come  to  pass.  Various  little  incon- 
veniences were  inevitable  in  a  tour  of  so  many  weeks,  but 
nothing  half  so  bad  as  what  had  been  pictured  by  Mrs. 
Calvert's  vivid  imagination.  One  feels  that  the  low  spirits 
in  which  she  started  must  have  been  rather  depressing  to 
the  four  young  people  who  were  on  pleasure  bent.  At 
Canterbury,  having  got  through  the  first  stage  of  the 
journey,  she  writes  : 

t  273 


274    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

"  I  feel  very  ill  indeed,  and  a  hundred  and  fifty  times 
already  have  I  wished  myself  at  home.  Taking  leave  of 
Mr.  C.  and  my  other  treasures  half  broke  my  heart  and 
were  it  not  that  I  could  not  disappoint  Fanny,  I  would 
never  go  this  tour.  However  I  trust  in  God  that  we  may 
get  safe  back  again  and  find  all  I  love  well.  My  Swiss  man 
whom  I  had  hired  was  out  of  the  way  when  I  wanted 
to  set  out,  so  I  have  determined  on  taking  one  of  my 
English  ones  and  a  good  humoured  stumpy  Swiss  maid." 

The  travellers  reached  Calais  after  a  very  rough 
passage  of  two  hours  and  three-quarters  in  a  very  clean 
yacht.  Mrs.  Calvert,  though  alarmed  about  herself,  was 
now  and  then  considerably  amused,  especially  when  on 
asking  the  name  of  a  street  in  Calais  she  was  answered 
thus  :  "  On  l'appelait  autrefois,  Madame,  la  Rue  de 
l'Egalite,  ensuite  la  Rue  de  l'Empereur,  et  a  present 
(with  a  significant  shrug)  c'est  la  Rue  Royale." 

Three  of  the  most  miserable-looking  horses  that  were 
ever  seen  contrived  somehow  to  drag  Mrs.  Calvert's 
barouche,  though  they  were  so  small  that  they  could  all 
have  gone  into  the  postilion's  jack-boots.  The  man  and 
maid  meanwhile  at  the  back  of  the  carriage  amused  each 
other  and  their  mistress  by  trying  to  converse  alternately 
in  French  and  English. 

"  The  road  from  St.  Omer  to  Lille  is  abominably  bad, 
but  the  three  little  horses  scramble  about  so  beautifully 
and  the  postboy  manages  them  so  cleverly  that  I  never 
feel  in  the  least  afraid. 

"  Going  through  Lille  I  bought  a  little  Brussels  lace 
and  trimmed  my  pelerine  with  it  so  that  it  might  not  be 
seized.  The  Custom  House  officer  came  up  to  my  carriage 
and  asked  if  I  had  anything  new  ? 

"  I  grew  scarlet,  and  answered  nothing  but  what  I 
had  worn  which  was  quite  true,  as  I  had  it  on  !  At  last 
he  let  me  proceed,  but  I  was  in  a  grand  fright. 


i8i7]  SOCIETY  IN  BRUSSELS  275 

"  Arriving  at  Brussels  we  visited  Lady  Clancarty,1  a 
great  friend  of  mine,  whose  husband  is  Ambassador  here. 
She  received  me  like  a  sister,  asked  us  all  to  dine  with 
her  to-morrow,  and  told  me  that  she,  her  carriage  and 
everything  belonging  to  her  was  at  my  service  during 
our  stay. 

"  The  Ladies  Trench  are  pleasant  good  humoured  girls, 
and  Fan  is  as  happy  as  possible  with  them. 

"  In  the  street  I  met  Madame  de  Nagell,  the  Prime 
Minister's  wife  whom  I  had  known  formerly  in  England. 
She  flew  across  the  street  with  both  hands  out,  delighted 
to  see  me,  and  begging  us  to  come  to  her  the  next  evening 
and  meet  the  Prince  of  Orange. 

"  Lady  Clancarty  kindly  lent  me  her  box  at  the  theatre. 
But  to  say  the  truth  I  was  so  overcome  by  the  heat  that 
I  fell  fast  asleep,  and  heard  little  or  nothing  of  the  per- 
formance. 

"  At  Madame  de  Nagell's  there  were  scarcely  any 
English  but  ourselves.  The  Prince  is  as  civil  as  ever, 
and  talked  to  me  a  good  while.  I  introduced  Fanny  to 
him,  and  reminded  him  that  she  had  had  the  honor  of 
dancing  with  him  at  Brighton.  The  Princess  stopped 
and  spoke  to  me  for  a  few  minutes. 

**  She  is  not  handsome,  but  is  a  most  fascinating  per- 
sonage. She  is  not  tall  but  beautifully  and  gracefully 
formed,  with  a  skin  like  white  satin,  and  the  gentlest, 
sweetest  manners  imaginable.  The  Princess  Dowager  is 
grown  an  immense  size.  The  fat  of  her  arms  is  really 
astonishing,  and  her  elbows  have,  at  each  end,  a  piece  of 
fat  of  a  deeper  color  than  the  rest  of  her  arms.  At  first 
I  took  them  for  two  wens  until  I  was  told  it  was  fat ! 

"As  a  rule  the  Belgian  ladies  are  not  handsome,  but 
there  are  two  Mesdemoiselles  de  Fagelles  who  are  re- 
markably so  ;  they  are  called  La  Belle  et  La  Jolie.  La 
Belle  is  not  young,  but  she  must  have  been  beautiful ; 

1  William  Power  Trench,  m.p.,  born  1741,  advanced  to  the  Earldom 
of  Clancarty  1803,  married  1762  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of  the  Right 
Hon.  Charles  Gardiner,  and  sister  of  Luke,  1st  Lord  Mountjoy.  She 
died  1829. 


276    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

tall  and  pale,  with  magnificent  features,  and  eyes  as 
piercing  as  an  eagle's.  She  is  wife  to  the  Ambassador  to 
England  ;  a  woman  of  high  character,  but  at  the  Church 
door  they  quarrelled  and  have  never  lived  together. 

"  The  other  sister  is  a  young  woman  and  deserves  the 
name  of  Jolie. 

"  How  I  miss  the  comfortable  English  grates  !  I  cannot 
warm  myself  at  the  miserable  bits  of  wood  on  the  ground 
— they  never  light  up,  and  invariably  smoke. 

"  We  have  been  to  see  a  fountain  erected  by  Lord 
Ailesbury,  out  of  gratitude  for  the  forty  years  of  good 
health  he  enjoyed  here.  I  believe  there  is  a  good  deal 
of  bad  blood,  and  Bonaparte  has  many  friends  here, 
and  the  Dutch  and  Belgians  not  on  the  best  of  terms. 
It  is  unlucky  that  the  Royal  Family,  amiable  as  they  are, 
do  not  try  to  conciliate.  They  are  all  quiet  and  retired 
in  their  ways  and  will  not  exert  themselves  even  to  give 
Drawing-rooms  for  people  to  be  presented  to  them.  The 
young  Princess  is  extremely  accomplished.  She  speaks 
almost  every  language,  Greek  and  Latin  included,  but 
she  takes  no  pains  to  be  popular  and  likes  to  sit  in  her 
room  at  her  books  and  work.  This  won't  do,  and  at  the 
first  opportunity  dissatisfaction  will  break  out  and  they 
will  lose  this  country. 

"L'Abbe  Sieves,1  Cambaceres  and  David — all  Regicides 
— are  here.  I  have  not  seen  them,  but  there  they  are 
walking  every  day  in  the  Park,  and  there  are  also  many 
ladies  who  in  secret  are  plotting  and  doing  no  end  of 
mischief. 

"  May  14th. — Yesterday  we  went  to  Laeken,  which 
I  think  worth  seeing,  though  it  is  only  a  small 
villa.  Bonaparte  furnished  it  entirely,  and  seems  to 
have  known  what  he  was  about.  He  seems  to  have 
very  good  taste,  but  the  want  of  grates,  carpets,  sofas 
and  easy  chairs  does  not  convey  much  idea  of  comfort, 
although  the  inlaid  floors  are  beautiful,  and  so  are  the 

1  The  Abbe  Sieves  was  Vicar-General  of  Chartres,  and  one  of  the 
greatest  politicians  of  his  time.  He  was  the  author  of  several  of  the 
most  important  measures  of  the  Revolution. 


i8i7]  BONAPARTE  AT  LAEKEN  277 

richly  gilt  chairs.  We  walked  about  the  gardens,  but 
there  is  nothing  to  see ;  all  the  hot  houses,  orangeries 
etc.,  were  destroyed,  and  have  not  been  replaced.  I 
amused  myself  talking  to  the  gardener  who  has  lived 
there  some  years  and  was  there  with  Bonaparte.  He 
pointed  out  a  vista  he  had  made,  and  said  he  intended  to 
do  a  great  deal  more.  When  he  was  at  Laeken  (the  man 
told  me)  he  was  always  '  renferme  dans  son  cabinet  d 
ecrire  '  ;  sometimes  he  took  a  turn  or  so.  But  Marie 
Louise  1  walked  a  great  deal,  and  used  to  fish  half  the 
day.  **| 

"  May  15th. — We  visited  the  Cathedrale  St.  Gudule 
yesterday  and  at  half  past  eight  went  to  a  party  at 
Lady  Clancarty's.  I  must  say  the  Belgian  parties  are 
very  noisy.  They  play  at  all  sorts  of  games,  (that  is  the 
young  people)  and  their  shrieks  of  laughter  at  nothing  at 
all  quite  tired  me.  They  all  seem  like  uneducated  board- 
ing school  girls.  But  Lady  Mary  Lennox  2 — the  Duke  of 
Richmond's  daughter — is  a  charming  girl,  so  mild  and 
ladylike.  She  desired  to  be  introduced  to  Fanny  and 
they  sat  together  during  a  great  part  of  the  evening. 

"  May  16th. — On  our  way  to  Antwerp  to-day  we 
changed  horses  at  Mechlin,  which  is  a  beautiful  little 
town,  the  cleanest  I  ever  saw.  Whilst  the  horses  were 
feeding  we  went  to  see  the  very  fine  Cathedral  which  has 
a  splendid  painting  by  Vandyke  of  our  Saviour  on  the 
Cross  ;   it  was  recovered  from  the  spoils  at  the  Louvre. 

"  A  very  flat,  uninteresting  road  is  the  road  to  Ant- 
werp. Directly  we  arrived  we  engaged  a  commissionaire 
and  went  off  sight  seeing.  At  Notre -Dame  there  are 
some  fine  paintings  by  Rubens — all  recovered  from  the 
Louvre.  Attached  to  it  is  a  most  curious  place — made 
by  two  Dominican  friars,  whose  sculptured  figures  adorn 
the  entrance. 

"  One  side  is  filled  with  figures  of  the  Apostles  and 

1  The  second  wife  of  Napoleon,  Maria  Louisa  of  Austria,  married 
1 8 10,  died  1847. 

8  Lady  Mary  Lennox  married  1820  Sir  Charles  FitzRoy,  k.c.b., 
and  died  1847 


278    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1817 

Evangelists,  and  others  representing  all  the  virtues  of  our 
Saviour.  On  the  other  side  you  go  down  a  few  steps 
into  what  they  call  '  L' Enter  ' — where  carved  figures  are 
in  a  lake  of  fire  burning  in  agonies,  and  an  angel  pours 
liquid  fire  out  of  a  vial  upon  them.  I  never  saw  such  a 
horrible  place  !  Yesterday,  being  Ascension  Day,  the 
Virgin  and  Child  were  dressed  in  their  best  silk  clothes. 

"  At  the  Port — being  a  holiday — the  ships  too  were 
all  dressed  and  the  flags  of  all  nations  were  flying  and 
looked  very  gay.  This  seems  an  excellent  harbour — all 
the  work  of  Bonaparte.  Everywhere  do  we  see  proofs 
of  his  energy  and  marvellous  ability — what  a  pity  it 
seems  that  a  man  like  him  should  have  so  misapplied  his 
talents  as  to  end  at  St.  Helena  ! 

"  In  the  India  House  on  the  Port  we  saw  the  marks 
of  Lord  Lynedoch's  bombs.  About  400  houses  were 
destroyed,  40  people  killed  and  many  vessels  sunk  when 
he  bombarded  Antwerp. 

"  We  went  afterwards  to  see  a  great  many  collections 
of  pictures,  some  very  fine  ones  by  Rubens,  Vandyke, 
Raphael  and  Guido.  At  one  place  they  told  us  that  they 
had  sold  a  good  many  pictures  to  Mr.  Smith,  a  member 
of  Parliament.  This  happens  to  be  our  neighbour  at 
Parndon.  Vandyke's  picture  of  his  second  wife  is  charm- 
ing,— the  picture  of  his  first  wife  is  exactly  like  Lady 
Ellenborough."  1 

Returning  to  Brussels  Mrs.  Calvert  was 

"  made  happy  by  receiving  a  letter  from  her  beloved 
Husband.  The  only  really  happy  minute  I  have  since  I 
came  abroad  is  whilst  I  am  reading  his  letters." 

"  May  2,2nd. — Dear  George  Knox  unexpectedly  arrived 
— a  delightful  addition  to  our  party.  At  half  past  eight 
we  all  went  to  Lady  Clancarty's.  The  Prince  and  Princess 
of  Orange,  Duke  of  Wellington  and  all  the  beau  monde 

1  Lady  Ellenborough  was  the  wife  of  the  ist  Lord  Ellenborough, 
married  in  1789,  and  daughter  of  the  late  George  Towry,  Captain  R.N. 
She  died  1843. 


i8i7]  MRS.  CALVERT  AT  WATERLOO  279 

of  Brussels  were  there.  But  I  am  very  much  affronted 
with  the  Duke.    He  never  asked  for  Felix  ! 

"  The  next  day  we  all  visited  Waterloo,  accompanied 
all  the  time  by  La  Coste,  a  most  intelligent  person  who 
explained  everything  so  clearly  that  I  understand  the 
battle  perfectly.  I  saw  the  spot  on  which  poor  Picton  fell 
and  the  bridge  where  the  32nd  were  stationed.  La  Coste 
was  with  Bonaparte  during  the  whole  of  the  18th.  He 
says  it  is  quite  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  he  headed  his 
army  or  exposed  his  person.  He  was  the  entire  time  on 
the  high  road  to  Charleroi,  behind  his  own  cannon  !  He 
seemed  in  very  good  spirits  till  the  arrival  of  the  Prussians, 
when  he  turned  '  pale  comme  la  mort/  He  then  galloped 
off  to  Charleroi,  La  Coste  also  of  the  party,  his  horse 
having  been  fastened  all  the  time  to  that  of  the  aide-de- 
camp at  Charleroi.  Bonaparte  said  to  La  Coste  '  Vous 
pouvez  retourner  chez  vous.'  The  aide-de-camp  then 
gave  him  a  Napoleon,  and  that  was  all  he  had  for  his 
agreeable  day's  work — it  was  not  paying  like  an  Em- 
peror. 

"  We  saw  a  very  small  chapel  at  Hougomont  in  which 
forty  five  wounded  soldiers  were  laid  after  the  battle.  It 
caught  fire  ;  part  of  the  floor  was  burnt,  and  also  the 
feet  of  a  figure  of  our  Saviour  on  the  Cross.  No  more  than 
that,  for  instantly  the  fire  dropped  down  and  was  ex- 
tinguished, and  this  La  Coste  seemed  to  attribute  to  a 
miracle. 

"  On  Friday  there  was  a  play  at  the  Duke  of  Rich- 
mond's, acted  by  some  of  his  sons  and  a  few  other  ama- 
teurs. The  play — which  was  Jane  Shore — was  most 
miserably  performed.  A  Mrs.  Barnett  acted  the  part 
of  the  heroine — not  so  badly,  but  she  is  old  and  ugly. 
The  audience  were  convulsed  with  laughter,  which  they 
tried  to  conceal  by  clapping.  There  was  a  supper  after- 
wards, but  I  was  tired  of  the  whole  business. 

"  The  Duke  of  Wellington  was  there  with  Colonel  and 
Mrs.  Hervey  in  his  train.  She  is  not  long  married  and  was 
a  Miss  Caton,1  sister  to  Mrs.  Paterson,  a  genteel  looking 

1  Of  Baltimore,  U.S.A. 


280    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1817 

young^woman.  It  is  the  fashion  to  make  a  fuss  about  her 
because  the  Duke  of  Wellington  is  in  love  with  Mrs.  Pater- 
son,1  whose  sister-in-law  is  married  to  Jerome  Bonaparte. 
"  On  Sunday  we  dined  with  the  Clancartys  and  after- 
wards took  an  affectionate  leave  of  them,  as  we  left  the 
next  day." 

Mrs.  Calvert  and  her  party  travelled  through  Namur 
to  Liege,  along  the  beautiful  banks  of  the  Meuse  in  per- 
fect weather,  the  dust  being  the  only  inconvenience.  An 
unpleasant  accident,  however,  probably  not  rare  in  those 
days,  befell  one  of  the  postilions.  Two  of  his  horses 
suddenly  fell  on  the  top  of  each  other,  and  he  being  buried 
beneath  their  weight  had  much  difficulty  in  extricating 
himself.  Pale  as  death  and  covered  with  blood,  he  was 
dragged  out  at  last,  to  Mrs.  Calvert's  great  relief. 

"  He  went  into  a  house  close  by,  washed  the  blood  from 
his  wounds,  got  some  brandy  and  came  out  with  two 
immense  bruises  on  his  face,  saying  gaily  *  ce  n'est  rien.' 
Though  evidently  much  hurt  he  mounted  little  Bidet 
saying  '  c'est  un  tres  bon  cheval,  et  sa  premiere  faute,' 
and  performed  the  rest  of  the  stage,  which  was  a  very 
long  one,  without  seeming  to  be  the  worse  for  it. 

"  From  Namur  to  Spa  is  but  twenty  five  miles  ;  it  took 
us  six  hours  to  get  there,  but  we  had  the  same  horses  all 
the  way,  and  had  to  stop  before  a  post  house  to  have 
them  fed.  It  is  a  very  hilly  journey  and  some  of  the  hills 
I  thought  terrific. 

"  We  are  at  the  Hotel  d'Orange,  and  I  can't  say  that 
I  was  very  well  satisfied  with  our  yesterday's  dinner, 
which  was  abominable.  We  had  no  potage,  a  hare  without 
a  head,  which  was  voted  a  cat,  an  old  cock  so  strong  and 
tough  there  was  no  eating  it,  and  some  bad  asparagus 
and  potatoes.  I  dare  say  that  in  the  season  this  place 
is  very  pleasant,  but  it  does  not  begin  for  at  least  three 
weeks,  and  there  are  very  few  people  travelling  this  way. 

1  She  eventually  married  his  elder  brother,  the  Marquess  Wellesley. 


i8i7]  FROM  SPA  TO  COLOGNE  281 

Every  house  is  engaged  by  English  families  for  next  month, 
but  at  present  it  looks  dreary,  the  shops  not  being  yet 
open.  My  spirits  are  very  low,  my  pulse  quick  and  my 
appetite  bad,  and  besides  this  I  am  dreadfully  deaf. 
It  begun  by  my  having  stopped  my  ears  so  as  not  to  hear 
Edmond  disputing  with  the  postilions.  I  think  it  gets 
worse  and  there  is  a  confusion  in  my  head  as  if  it  were 
full  of  cotton.  I  am  terribly  hipped  and  often,  often  wish 
myself  at  home." 

At  last  Mrs.  Calvert  determines  on  the  desperate  step 
of  applying  leeches  to  her  temples,  in  the  hope  of  curing 
these  unpleasant  sensations. 

"But  the  apothecary  had  none,  for  they  will  not  live 
here  on  account  of  the  water  being  so  impregnated  with 
steel.  He  sent  for  some  to  Verviers  a  town  some  miles  off. 
I  must  say  my  young  fellow  travellers  are  very  kind  and 
attentive  to  me,  for  they  were  all,  male  and  female,  busily 
employed  in  the  evening  helping  to  put  them  on.  They 
must  have  fastened  on  the  arteries,  for  they  bled  most 
properly,  however  my  deafness  is  just  the  same. 

"  Sunday,  June  1st. — This  is  a  lovely  day.  We  had 
prayers  first,  then  went  out  on  ponies.  I  was  a  long  time 
before  I  could  persuade  myself  to  get  on  mine,  and  then  I 
made  my  guide  hold  the  bridle  all  the  time. 

"  We  leave  this  to-morrow  to  my  great  joy  for  I  am 
most  heartily  tired  of  it.  I  have  never  ceased  wishing 
myself  back  in  Wimpole  Street  since  I  left  it." 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  not  favourably  impressed  with 
Cologne,  where  the  travellers  remained  some  days. 

"  Although  I  admire  the  scenery  which  is  magnificent, 
I  cannot  say  that  I  like  the  interior  of  a  German  house. 
Never  did  I  see  anything  equal  to  the  dirt,  and  as  to  the 
smells — ah  Ciel ! 

"  My  bed  was  a  dreadful  one.  When  I  got  into  it,  it 
instantly  broke  down,  and  I  was  obliged  to  summon  the 
chamber-maid  to  mend  it.     *  Ah,  ma  pauvre  dame  !  ' 


282    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

she  exclaimed,  and  then  set  to  work.  She  cobbled  it  up, 
and  in  I  got.  They  say  hunger  is  the  best  sauce,  and 
evidently  fatigue  is  the  best  soporific,  for  I  was  very  soon 
asleep. 

"  The  streets  are  terribly  narrow  and  dirty,  but  I  was 
much  amused  with  the  Churches,  particularly  that  of 
St.  Ursula,  where  we  saw  the  bones  of  eleven  thousand 
virgins  ;  also  one  of  the  flagons  which  held  the  water 
which  our  Saviour  turned  into  wine." 

At  Frankfort  the  travellers  dined  for  the  first  time  at 
table  d'hote. 

"  There  were  only  men — all  Germans.  They  picked 
their  teeth  with  their  knives,  but  did  nothing  else  out  of 
the  way.  We  had  a  very  good  dinner.  The  master  of 
the  house  said  he  hoped  I  liked  it  but  I  should  have  a 
better  one  to-morrow — roast  beef  and  plum  pudding. 
I  answered  that  I  was  not  particularly  fond  of  it,  but  I 
suppose  I  have  a  John  Bullish  look,  for  he  seemed  un- 
convinced. 

"  June  nth. — They  had  not  forgotten  my  roast  beef 
to-day.  The  man  put  it  down  for  me  to  look  at  and  said 
*  Le  voila,  Madame,  le  voila — regardez — vous  Faimerez 
bien.'  We  laughed  very  heartily,  and  every  eye  was 
turned  on  me  and  the  roast  beef,  which  however  proved 
to  be  excellent. 

"  I  took  a  delightful  walk  round  the  town  this  morning 
on  what  was  formerly  the  ramparts.  Bonaparte  de- 
stroyed them  and  turned  the  ground  into  gardens  and 
shrubberies.  He  has  better  taste  than  anybody  :  they 
are  beautiful,  and  I  longed  to  convey  them  to  Hunsdon." 


CHAPTER    XXII 

Heidelberg  and  its  castle — Baden-Baden — The  Grand  Duchess 
Stephanie — Count  Rostopchin  and  the  burning  of  Moscow — 
A  visit  to  the  Queen  of  Wiirtemberg — Switzerland — Comtesse 
Liedekerke — A  duel  and  its  tragic  ending — Geneva — Prince 
Paul  of  Mecklenburg  -  Schwerin  —  Death  of  Madame  de 
Stael — Mrs.  Calvert  ascends  Montanvert — Journey  to  Paris 
— Fontainebleau — Lady  Elizabeth  Stuart — Mrs.  Calvert  is 
anxious — Presentation  at  Court — Sight-seeing. 

"  Heidelberg,  June  14th,  1817. 

WE  are  very  comfortably  lodged  at  an  Inn 
close  to  the  bridge.1  I  want  sadly  to  get 
up  to  the  old  castle,  which  is  not  very  far 
from  this. 

"  They  have  an  odd  way  of  serving 
the  dinners  in  this  country.  First  comes  the  soup,  then 
a  joint  of  boiled  beef,  which  is  cut  up  and  carried  about 
in  slices.  After  that  comes  spinach  or  asparagus,  and 
perhaps  slices  of  Bologna  sausage.  This  is  succeeded  by 
fish,  veal,  chicken  or  game,  and  some  dishes  whose  names 
I  don't  know,  nor  do  I  wish  to  try  them.  Nobody  need 
starve  if  they  have  an  appetite  ! 

"  Baden-Baden,  June  18th. — My  first  question  on  ar- 
riving here  last  night  was  as  to  when  the  beds  were 
slept  in  ?  With  great  naivete  the  waiter  answered 
1  Pas  cette  annee.'  Of  course  they  were  damp,  but  it  is 
far  better  to  know  the  worst,  for  then  you  can  apply  the 
remedy.  An  English  waiter  would  have  lied  through 
thick  and  thin. 

"  This  morning  at  breakfast  I  invited  the  master  of 
the  house  to  sit  down,  and  a  most  agreeable  entertaining 
old  man  I  found  him. 

1  Probably  the  Hotel  de  Hollande. 
283 


284    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

"  The  Grand  Duke  x  is  married  to  Mademoiselle 
Beauharnais,2  cousin  to  Eugene  Beauharnais  and  his 
sister  the  ex-Queen  of  Holland,  and  adopted  daughter 
of  Bonaparte. 

"  The  Grand  Duke  was  Hereditary  Prince  when  he  was 
made  to  marry  her,  and  for  a  long  time  he  disliked  her 
very  much.  The  people  too  were  much  prejudiced 
against  her,  but  nevertheless  she  has  managed  to  con- 
ciliate them,  and  is  now  universally  loved.3  As  for  the 
Grand  Duke,  nobody  likes  him — '  II  n'est  pas  mechant, 
mais  il  dort  toujours,  et  ne  fait  rien."  Half  his  subjects 
are  starving,  and  will  continue  to  do  so  until  the  harvest. 
I  think  that  sort  of  apathetic  indolence  becomes  a  real 
crime  in  a  Prince,  and  it  is  lamentable  to  see  how  many 
of  them  are  guilty  of  it.  At  most  places  along  the  road 
we  have  heard  the  same  complaint,  except  at  Darmstadt. 

"  We  spent  this  morning  visiting  the  hot  spring,  which 
is  like  a  cauldron  of  boiling  water.  Then  we  mounted — 
Oh,  what  a  hill,  and  what  a  broiling  sun  ! — two  miles  and 
a  half  to  the  ruins  of  an  old  castle.  We  were  fully  re- 
warded by  seeing  the  most  beautiful  ruin  I  ever  beheld. 
When  we  descended  the  mountain  we  went  to  see  the 
castle  in  which  the  Grand  Duke  lives,  and  the  under- 
ground rooms  in  which  the  secret  tribunal  used  to  hold 
their  meetings.  We  were  each  given  a  lighted  candle 
and  looked  very  like  heroines  as  we  went  along  the  low 
narrow  passages,  but  I  did  not  feel  at  all  like  a  heroine 
when  I  thought  the  Guide  was  going  to  shut  one  of  the 
immense  doors  which  are  all  formed  of  one  single  stone 
and  each  weighs  ten  thousand  pounds.  We  went  into  the 
torture  chamber  and  saw  the  room  with  a  trap  door, 
through  which  condemned  prisoners  were  let  down  in  a 
bucket  or  basket,  and  never  heard  of  again. 

1  Charles  Louis  Frederick,  the  reigning  Duke  of  Baden. 

2  She  was  always  known  as  the  Grand  Duchess  Stephanie.  Her 
only  daughter,  Princess  Marie  of  Baden,  married  1843  William,  nth 
Duke  of  Hamilton. 

3  In  later  years  Mrs.  Edmond  Knox  and  her  daughters  were  often 
received  by  the  Grand  Duchess — "  Madame,  je  n'ose  plus  vous  retenir  " 
was  the  graceful  formula  with  which  she  used  to  dismiss  her  guests. 


i8i7]  COUNT  ROSTOPCHIN  285 

"  At  table  d'hote  we  had  a  delightful  band  playing  in 
the  gallery,  and  during  dessert  a  conjuror  came  and 
amused  us  with  his  tricks.  During  our  drive  this  after- 
noon we  met  the  ex-Queen  of  Sweden  (who  was  a  Princess 
of  Baden)  in  her  barouche,  but  she  went  too  fast  for  us 
to  see  her.  I  have  just  seen  riding  by,  the  Russian 
General  who  burnt  Moscow.1    He  is  an  ugly  Christian. 

"  June  igth. — We  are  still  here,  for  two  reasons,  one 
is  that  Jenny's  maid  Evans  is  very  ill,  and  a  physician  is 
sent  for.  Besides  this,  the  Grand  Duchess  has  taken 
away  all  the  horses  to  Carlsruhe. 

"  The  physician  has  arrived.  From  his  appearance  I 
would  not  let  him  doctor  a  favourite  cat  if  I  had  one. 
He  is  a  little,  odd,  facetious,  frisky  old  man,  who  seems 
to  like  to  chatter  better  than  to  listen.  He  asked  to  feel 
Jenny's  pulse,  so  that  he  might  know  what  the  pulse  of  an 
Englishwoman  in  health  is  ! — I  am  sure  this  is  no  certain 
rule  to  go  by.  He  says  Evans'  complaint  is  all  bile,  and 
has  ordered  her  some  medicine,  but  does  not  think  she 
can  leave  for  two  or  three  days." 

Happily  the  doctor  was  mistaken,  and  the  following 
day  found  the  travellers  on  their  way  to  Stuttgart. 
Here  Mrs.  Calvert  found  to  her  disappointment  that 
the  Dowager  Queen  of  Wurtemberg  2  had  gone  three 
days  before  to  the  baths  of  Teinach,  some  five  and 
twenty  miles  from  Stuttgart.  Mrs.  Calvert  at  first 
proposed  to  forward  the  letter  and  parcel  from  Princess 
Elizabeth,  of  which  she  was  the  bearer,  by  Mr.  Taylor, 
the  British  Envoy  to  Stuttgart.  Eventually,  however, 
a  gracious  message  from  Her  Majesty  decided  her  on 

1  Count  Feodor  Rostopchin  (born  1765,  died  1826)  is  believed 
to  have  ordered  the  burning  of  Moscow  in  18 12,  but  if  this  be  true, 
he  never  confessed  it.  His  daughter  became  Comtesse  de  Segur, 
and  wrote  the  delightful  Livres  Roses  which  have  enchanted  several 
generations  of  French  and  English  children. 

2  Princess  Royal  of  England,  eldest  daughter  of  George  III,  born 
1766,  married  1797  Frederick,  Duke  (afterwards  King)  of  Wurtemberg. 


286    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

delivering  it  in  person.  In  the  meantime  she  and  her 
daughters  went  over  the  Palace,  and  were  very  much 
charmed  with  all  they  saw. 

"  It  is  magnificent  and  full  of  comforts,  which  the  late 
King  seems  much  to  have  considered.  Several  rooms  are 
fitted  up  with  Gobelin  *  tapestry,  all  presents  from 
Bonaparte,  who  seems  to  have  been  quite  Vami  de  la 
maison.  We  saw  his  bedroom  covered  with  eagles. 
Delightful  as  the  Queen  Dowager's  apartments  are, 
she  had  never  occupied  them  since  the  King's  death. 
Though  he  behaved  very  ill  to  her,  she  was  doatingly 
fond  of  him.  Strange  to  say  she  hates  the  English  ! 
There  are  several  rooms,  the  chairs  of  which  she  has 
embroidered.  She  must  have  had  plenty  of  time  for  it, 
as  she  never  appeared  in  public  during  the  King's  life 
time,  but  always  lived  shut  up  in  state.  She  gets  up  at 
five  every  morning  and  dines  at  one  o'clock. 

"  The  present  King  2  has  forty-six  palaces  !  He  does 
not  seem  to  be  very  popular." 

The  visit  to  Teinach  took  place  the  next  day,  and  Mrs. 
Calvert  gives  us  a  graphic  description  of  it. 

"  June  26th. — The  Queen  Dowager  wrote  a  most 
complimentary  letter  to  Mr.  Taylor  about  me,  indeed  she 
said  I  was  a  '  charming  little  woman  whom  she  always 
used  to  admire.' 

"  We  did  not  arrive  at  Teinach  till  past  one — thirty 
miles  in  Germany  is  a  journey  indeed  !  The  Queen's 
house  is  just  opposite  the  post  house.  She  heard  the 
carriage  and  at  once  sent  off  a  servant  to  ask  us  over  to 
dinner.  We  had  scarcely  time  to  get  off  our  bonnets 
etcetera.    Never  was  I  so  warm  in  my  life  as  when  I  took 

1  This  manufacture  was  begun  in  the  reign  of  Francis  I  by  a  man 
called  Giles  Gobelin.  One  of  its  great  excellences  consisted  in  the 
beauty  of  its  scarlet  dye. 

2  William  I,  born  1781.  He  abolished  serfdom  in  18 18,  instituted 
representative  government  in  18 19.  In  1862  he  was  the  oldest  living 
sovereign.     He  died  two  years  later. 


i8i7]    DOWAGER  QUEEN  OF  WURTEMBERG     287 

the  Lord  Chamberlain's  arm  ;  he  on  his  side  was  all  bows 
and  courtesy. 

"  Crossing  the  road,  we  went  upstairs  and  found  the 
Queen  and  her  household  at  dinner.  She  got  up  at  once 
and  came  forward  to  meet  me  in  the  kindest  way.  I  sat 
on  one  side  of  her  and  Isabella  on  the  other. 

"  My  dinner  was  not  very  comfortable  from  my  being 
so  warm.  The  others  had  just  finished,  so  everything 
was  brought  back  for  us.  All  eyes  were  upon  us,  but  the 
Queen  did  everything  she  could  to  put  us  at  our  ease 
and  by  the  time  I  got  a  little  cool  I  felt  completely  so — 
her  manners  are  so  amiable,  so  conciliating,  and  not  the 
least  high. 

"  After  dinner  we  went  into  an  adjoining  room  where 
we  all  stood  during  coffee.  The  Queen  then  invited  me 
into  her  own  apartment  where  we  sat  chatting  together 
most  comfortably.  She  is  as  absolutely  unreserved  with 
me  as  if  I  were  her  equal — among  other  things  she  gave 
me  an  account  of  her  husband's  death  and  cried  a  good 
deal.  She  seems  to  have  been  warmly  attached  to  him, 
which  people  wonder  at,  as  he  was  far  from  kind  to 
her. 

"  Time  passed  so  quickly  that  I  was  quite  sorry  to  be 
obliged  to  tell  her  Majesty  that  my  fear  of  driving 
through  the  Black  Forest  in  the  dark  must  force  me  to 
make  an  early  start.  She  seemed  really  grieved  to  lose 
me,  and  lamented  so  not  being  at  Louisbourg  *  where  she 
would  have  been  glad  to  invite  me  to  spend  two  or  three 
quiet  days  with  her.  I  should  have  liked  this  much  for 
she  is  very  pleasing. 

"  Isabella  and  Fanny  found  her  ladies  and  gentlemen 
very  agreeable,  there  are  four  of  each,  and  she  seems  to 
live  on  very  sociable  terms  with  them.  The  Queen  has 
grown  very  large  but  not  so  much  so  as  I  expected. 

"  She  charged  me  with  a  great  many  respectful  mes- 
sages to  her  Mother  and  kind  and  affectionate  ones  to 

1  "  Louisbourg  is  about  twelve  miles  from  Stuttgart  ;  the  palace 
was  sumptuous,  the  opera  house  the  largest  in  Europe  "  {Lady  Holland's 
Journal,  1793).    Louisbourg  was  the  residence  of  the  Queen-Dowager. 


288    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1817 

her  sisters,  and  she  gave  me  a  letter  and  a  ring  for  Princess 
Elizabeth. 

"  She  begged  me  to  come  back  and  take  leave  of  her 
when  I  was  ready  to  go.  I  accordingly  did  so,  and  really 
she  bade  me  a  most  affectionate  farewell.  It  is  sad  to 
take  leave  of  a  person  whom  one  is  almost  certain  never 
to  see  again  in  this  world.1  She  kissed  me  three  times  and 
thanked  me  over  and  over  again  for  my  kindness  in 
coming  so  far  to  see  her.  She  was  very  kind  too  in  her 
manner  to  the  girls.  She  said  that  Isabella  was  exactly 
like  me,  and  that  Fanny  reminded  her  of  my  Mother,  to 
whom  she  desired  to  be  remembered.  She  whispered  to 
Fanny  that  I  was  not  in  the  least  altered  !  That,  begging 
Her  Majesty's  pardon,  was  one  great  fib,  at  least,  so  my 
glass  uncivilly  tells  me. 

"  It  was  between  three  and  four  when  we  left  Teinach, 
and  the  finest  afternoon  I  ever  saw.  But  in  this  horrible 
climate  there  is  no  depending  on  the  weather  for  five 
minutes  and  before  long  we  were  caught  in  one  of  the  most 
tremendous  storms  I  ever  witnessed.  It  hailed,  it 
thundered  and  the  rain  came  down  in  sheets.  As  the 
boy  could  not  see  to  drive  they  dragged  us  under  an 
archway  for  shelter  and  there  we  remained  at  least  an 
hour.  Many  of  the  streets  were  impassable  from  the 
floods  caused  by  the  torrent  that  had  descended  on  us. 
When  we  arrived  at  Stuttgart  they  had  given  us  up, 
and  our  gentlemen  had  gone  to  bed,  for  it  was  long  past 
eleven. 

"  S  chaff  hausen,  June  30th. — Oh,  how  can  any  one  be 
disappointed  in  the  falls  of  the  Rhine  ?  Where  were 
Felix's  eyes,  mind  and  soul  ?  I  never  was  so  enchanted. 
It  is  the  most  wonderful  thing  I  ever  saw,  and  far  sur- 
passed my  expectations.  Owing  to  the  late  rains,  it  was 
particularly  full,  and  such  was  its  magnificence  and 
beauty,  we  really  could  hardly  tear  ourselves  away." 

At  Zug  the  party  separated  for  a  short  time.     Mrs. 
Calvert  and  her  daughter  Fanny  went  by  road  to  Lucerne, 
1  The  Queen  of  Wiirtemberg  died  October  6th,  1828. 


CHARLOTTE,    QUEEN    OF   WURTEMBERG    (PRINCESS    ROYAL   OF    ENGLAND) 


i8i7]  SWITZERLAND  289 

while  the  Stronges  and  Knoxes  made  up  their  minds  to 
cross  the  lake,  ride  up  the  Rigi  and  down  on  the  other  side. 
On  Lady  Stronge's  part  this  seems  to  have  been  rather  a 
bold  venture,  for  she  was  far  from  well,  and  had  suffered 
more  or  less  severely  from  spasms  during  the  whole  of 
the  tour.  But  nothing  would  induce  her  to  give  up  the 
expedition,  and  we  are  rather  amused  to  hear  that  she 
and  the  rest  of  her  party  "  took  their  night-caps  in  case 
of  accidents,"  as  it  was  just  possible  that  they  might  be 
delayed  by  the  weather.  Poor  Lady  Stronge's  courage 
was  not  rewarded,  for  she  was  visited  with  no  less  than 
eleven  spasms  in  the  course  of  a  single  night. 

Mrs.  Calvert  meanwhile  waited  at  Lucerne  for  the  rest 
of  the  travellers,  her  vivid  imagination  conjuring  up  every 
sort  of  disaster ;  and,  in  great  uneasiness,  she  writes  : 

"  They  are  not  arrived,  and  God  knows  when  they 
will.  I  feel  very  uncomfortable,  for  torrents  of  rain  are 
still  falling,  and  unless  it  clears  it  is  impossible  they  can 
cross  the  lake.  Fanny  and  I  got  up  at  seven  and  had  a 
pleasant  walk.  We  crossed  a  curious  long  bridge  covered 
and  adorned  with  a  quantity  of  paintings." 

Visitors  to  Lucerne  will  remember  that  quaintest  of 
bridges  and  its  weird  mediaeval  pictures  ;  but  in  most 
people  they  would  inspire  horror  rather  than  admiration. 

"  Morgenthal,  May  1st. — Oh  what  a  horrible  place  for 
thunderstorms  is  this  Switzerland.  Just  after  a  bright 
flash  and  clap  which  shook  the  house,  the  landlady  rushed 
in  in  an  agony  exclaiming  '  II  brule,  il  brule — un  village 
entier  I  "  As  we  looked  out  we  saw  in  the  distance 
volumes  of  flames  and  red  glare.  The  chambermaid 
tells  me  that  a  fortnight  ago  they  had  a  very  bad  storm 
which  burned  thirteen  houses.  And  how  suddenly  they 
come  !  To-night  there  was  not  even  a  black  cloud  till 
the  minute  it  began." 


2Q0    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

It  was  a  relief  the  next  day  to  hear  that  it  was  not  a 
village  that  had  caught  fire,  but  a  solitary  house  standing 
alone,  which  with  all  its  contents  was  burnt  to  ashes. 

"  Berne,  July  8th. — We  dined  at  Kirchberg  and  arrived 
here  at  six  ;  delighted  with  the  beauty  of  the  town,  and 
extremely  well  lodged  at  the  '  Faucon.'  I  am  much 
amused  with  all  the  different  costumes  of  the  Cantons. 
Some  I  think  very  pretty,  but  I  am  astonished  that  the 
women  wear  such  short  petticoats,  for  their  legs  are 
monstrous  thick. 

"  July  9th- — Count  Liedekerke,  Ambassador  from 
Belgium,  (to  whose  wife  I  brought  a  letter  of  intro- 
duction from  Mademoiselle  de  Nagell)  called  on  us  this 
morning.  He  lives  at  a  chateau  four  leagues  from  this. 
He  seems  a  good  humoured  young  man,  and  very  obliging. 
I  also  had  a  visit  from  Monsieur  TEnvoye  Freudeneck, 
to  whom  the  Wickhams  1  had  written  to  recommend  me  ; 
a  comical  old  man,  who  seemed  very  much  fidgetted  that 
he  could  show  no  civility,  as  we  go  away  tomorrow. 

"  July  10th.  Thun. — We  left  Berne  at  eleven  this 
morning  and  arrived  about  two  at  the  Chateau  de  Kurser, 
where  Count  Liedekerke  lives.  We  dined  at  three.  The 
Countess  is  a  young  woman  of  twenty  or  thereabouts, 
very  pleasing  and  agreeable.  Her  father  and  mother, 
the  Comte  and  Comtesse  de  la  Tour  du  Pin,  are  staying 
with  her — most  charming  people.  The  Comtesse,  a  very 
superior  woman,  has  great  remains  of  beauty,  and  there 
is  a  dignity  in  her  manner  which  obliges  you  to  look  up 
to  and  admire  her.  They  have  met  with  terrible  mis- 
fortunes. Not  long  ago  they  lost  a  lovely  daughter,  who 
was  to  have  been  married  to  the  Comte  d'Argenteau, 
and  their  eldest  son  was  killed  in  a  duel  with  a  brother 
officer  about  a  year2  ago.    They  have  now  only  Madame 

1  Mr.  Wickham  had  been  for  some  years  British  Envoy  to  Switzer- 
land. 

2  Hombert  de  la  Tour  du  Pin  Gouvernet,  who  was  only  twenty- 
two.  The  story  of  this  duel  and  its  tragic  termination  is  related  in 
the  Memoirs  of  the  Comtesse  de  Boigne,  Vol.  II,  page  92. 


i8i7]  COUNTESS  LIEDEKERKE  291 

de  Liedekerke  and  a  very  delicate  boy  of  ten,  in  whom 
they  are  wrapped  up  heart  and  soul.  They  are  a  most 
charming  family.  We  have  been  to  call  on  Lord  George 
and  Lady  Georgiana  Quin,1  who  have  got  a  beautiful 
little  cottage  not  far  off.  She  is  confined  to  her  room, 
and  he  was  out,  so  I  saw  neither.  The  Comtesse  de  la 
Tour  du  Pin  has  promised  to  give  me  a  letter  of  intro- 
duction to  the  Duchesse  de  Duras  2  in  Paris,  and  the 
Comtesse  de  Liedekerke  will  write  one  to  a  Princess 
whose  name  I  forget.  The  Stronges  and  Knox's  are  to 
cross  the  lake  early  tomorrow  and  go  on  a  tour. 

"  July  nth. — This  morning  I  hired  a  corbeille  and  went 
with  Fanny  to  see  a  cascade  with  which  I  was  delighted. 
A  corbeille  is  a  very  pleasant  equipage,  and  I  rather  wish 
I  had  one  at  Hunsdon.  It  is  drawn  by  one  horse  and  has 
four  wheels,  and  is  so  low  that  one  can  step  in  and  out 
of  it  with  ease. 

"  Jufy  12th. — At  seven  this  morning  Fanny  and  I  set 
out  in  the  corbeille  for  the  Chateau  de  Wimiss.  The 
drive  there  is  superb  ;  we  wound  among  the  mountains 
and  down  almost  perpendicular  hills,  but  in  the  dear  little 
corbeille  nobody  can  be  afraid.  Part  of  the  way  the 
country  is  very  like  Wales,  but  far  more  magnificent. 
There  was  a  bridge  over  a  very  rapid  mountain  torrent, 
into  which  a  young  lady  jumped,  strange  to  say  without 
being  drowned.  I  should  like  to  have  known  her  story, 
but  our  driver  could  not  speak  a  word  of  anything  but 
German,  and  besides  this  had  lost  the  palate  of  his  mouth, 
so  it  was  with  difficulty  that  we  made  out  what  we  did. 

"  July  14th.  Berne. — We  left  Thun  yesterday  at  nine, 
calling  at  the  Chateau  de  Kursen  to  take  leave.  The 
Duchesse  de  Duras  and  the  unknown  Princess  have  left 
Paris,  so  I  shall  have  no  recommendatory  letters  after  all. 

1  Lord  George  Taylour,  son  of  the  ist  Marquis  of  Headfort,  born 
1792.    He  assumed  the  name  of  Quin,  which  was  that  of  his  mother. 

2  The  Duchesse  de  Duras  was  Mademoiselle  Claire  de  Kersaint, 
who  was  born  at  Brest  1778,  and  died  in  1828.  While  exiled  from 
France  during  the  Revolution  she  married  Amedee  Bretagne  Malo, 
Due  de  Duras,  peer  of  France.  Madame  de  Duras's  house  was  con- 
sidered the  pleasantest  in  Paris.  She  was  a  person  of  much  tact  and 
cleverness,  and  welcomed  all  foreigners  of  talent  and  distinction. 


292    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

"  July  16th. — We  left  Berne  at  eight  this  morning,  and 
dined  at  Fribourg.  What  an  extraordinary  town ! 
It  is  up  and  down  some  very  steep  hills — a  nasty  place, 
and  I  was  glad  to  leave  it.  At  the  Convent  des  Ursulines 
we  were  very  much  disappointed  at  seeing  only  two 
ugly  old  nuns.  They  took  us  through  the  house,  and 
showed  us  one  of  their  cells,  a  comfortable  little  room, 
and  I  saw  no  skull,  only  two  or  three  hour-glasses. 

"  I  have  discovered  that  Madame  de  la  Tour  du  Pin  is 
sister  to  Madame  Bertrand.1   We  go  tomorrow  to  Geneva. 

"  Geneva,  July  igth. — Edmond  and  Jenny  have  got  a 
villa  here,  and  would  not  allow  me  to  go  to  the  Inn. 
The  Stronges  have  also  got  one,  and  they  will  have  beds, 
for  us  tomorrow,  when  we  shall  move  in  there.  The  road 
from  Lausanne  here  is  beautiful ;  really  like  travelling 
through  fairy  land.  We  have  got  an  invitation  to  a  ball 
at  Prince  Paul  of  Mecklenburg-Schwerin's,  to  which,  of 
course,  we  are  most  happy  to  go. 

"  July  22nd. — We  went  at  nine  to  the  Prince's  ball ; 
he  gave  it  in  honour  of  his  father,  the  Duke  of  Mecklen- 
burg, who  is  come  here  to  pay  him  a  visit.  The  Prince 
is  only  seventeen,  a  nice  boy,  with  a  look  of  our  Royal 
Family,  and  he  is  here  for  his  education.  He  seemed 
very  happy,  dancing  away,  and  his  father  is  remarkably 
civil.  He  even  attended  us  at  supper,  bringing  plates 
etc.  I  did  not  know  him,  but  took  him  for  one  of  the 
household,  and  treated  him  with  great  familiarity.  I  was 
quite  shocked  when  I  found  it  out,  and  made  him  a 
hundred  apologies,  which  he  took  most  good  humouredly. 
There  were  a  great  many  people.  Quadrilles  and  waltzing 
were  the  order  of  the  day,  and  there  was  only  one  country 
dance.  To-day  I  hired  a  char-a-banc  and  went  to  Geneva. 
Fanny  and  I  go  to  Chamounix  tomorrow.  The  cele- 
brated Madame  de  Stael  is  dead.2 

1  General  Bertrand,  as  is  well  known,  accompanied  Napoleon 
to  St.  Helena,  and  his  family  went  with  him. 

2  Anne  Louise  Germaine  Necker,  daughter  of  the  celebrated  M. 
Necker,  Finance  Minister  of  Louis  XVI  immediately  before  the  Revo- 
lution, was  born  in  Paris  1766.  She  married  in  1786  Baron  Stae'l- 
Holstein,  Swedish  Minister  at  Paris,  but  separated  from  him  a  few 


H.S.H.   PRINCE    PAUL    OF    MECKLENBURG-SCHWERIN,    1817 


i8i7]  MRS.  CALVERT  ASCENDS  MONTANVERT  293 

"  Vallee  de  Chamounix,  July  24th. — At  an  early  hour 
this  morning  Felix  mounted  a  mule,  and  Fanny,  John, 
and  I  got  into  a  char-a-banc.  It  is  impossible  to  describe 
the  magnificence  of  the  scenery.  The  road,  to  look  at, 
seemed  impassable,  but  somehow  or  other  as  '  Vappetit 
vient  en  ntangeant,'  so  '  le  courage  vient  en  avangant.' 
But  we  were  almost  shook  to  mummies,  it  was  all  so 
rough  and  generally  along  a  precipice,  and  in  some  parts 
the  road  was  so  narrow  that  the  wheels  reached  quite  to 
the  edge  and  we  were  nearly  over.  The  height  of  the 
mountains,  Mont  Blanc  especially,  is  really  astonishing. 

"  July  28th. — I  have  been  up  Montanvert,  and  I  am 
alive  !  At  six  this  morning  we  mounted  our  mules.  I 
was  much  delighted  with  mine,  until  I  began  to  go  up  the 
mountain.  I  then  felt  that  I  had  never  done  anything 
so  fatiguing  or  so  disagreeable.  It  was  all  I  could  do  to 
keep  my  seat  when  the  animal  bounded  from  one  rock 
to  another.  I  only  managed  to  do  it  by  holding  fast  to 
the  pummel  and  saddle  and  bending  double  over  the 
mule's  neck.  When  the  bridle  was  left  on  his  neck  he 
picked  out  the  way  most  pleasing  to  himself,  and  really 
his  sagacity  was  quite  astonishing.  But  he  made  me 
rather  nervous  by  always  going  to  the  very  edge  of  the 
precipice,  and  looking  over  it  as  if  he  meant  to  descend 
it.  I  must  say  I  was  not  sorry  when  the  time  came  for  us 
to  dismount  and  take  to  our  feet,  as  it  grew  too  dangerous 
at  last  for  the  mules. 

"  The  guides  were  quite  astonished  and  said  that  they 
never  saw  ladies  walk  so  well,  that  we  really  were  like 
chamois.  They  allow  four  hours  for  the  climb  and  we 
did  it  in  two  hours  and  a  half.  At  the  top  we  rested  a 
little  and  then  went  down  to  the  Mer  de  Glace  where  we 
bounded  over  the  chasms  with  the  help  of  our  poles. 
After  a  very  good  collation  of  strawberries  and  milk 

years  later.  She  engaged  in  a  plot  for  effecting  the  escape  of  the  Royal 
Family  to  England,  and  was  eventually  exiled  by  Napoleon  in  conse- 
quence of  her  hostility  to  him.  At  the  age  of  forty-six  she  married 
privately  Monsieur  de  Rocca,  aged  twenty-five.  She  died  in  Paris, 
and  was  buried  at  Coppet. 


294    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

and  vin  de  la  Cote,  we  all  stretched  ourselves  out  on  the 
grass  while  the  guides  ate  up  our  scraps.  I  fell  asleep, 
but  was  soon  awoke  by  the  noise  of  an  avalanche,  which 
is  like  thunder.  We  saw  four  as  we  descended  the 
mountain,  a  process  which  I  found  quite  as  fatiguing  as 
ascending.  It  is  now  nine  and  after  tea  we  are  going  to 
bed,  for  mounting  Montanvert  is  no  trifle." 

On  her  return  to  Geneva  Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  that  the 
Stronges  had  all  the  Gunn  family  to  dinner,  and  many 
more  in  the  evening. 

"  The  Miss  Gunns  sang  divinely  ;  they  have  wonderful 
talents  and  are  very  agreeable,  but  rather  too  dashing 
for  my  taste. 

"  I  took  leave  of  my  dear  Felix  (whom  Heaven  preserve) 
at  Isabella's  gate,  as  we  were  to  set  out  the  next  day. 
We  got  up  at  four,  and  Isabella  and  Sir  James  would  get 
up  too,  and  give  us  our  coffee.  Dear  Isabella  was  in 
terrible  grief  at  parting  with  us. 

"  So  Fanny  and  I  set  off,  John  Knox  escorting  us  to 
Paris.  I  was  very  much  surprised  to  hear  that  they  had 
all  kept  a  secret  from  me.  It  seems  that  the  courier  with 
letters  from  Geneva  had  been  robbed  on  the  way,  and 
they  all  thought  I  should  be  afraid  of  travelling  if  I 
knew  this. 

"  The  Jura  mountains  are  very  tiresome  to  pass — so 
steep,  and  with  the  most  terrible  precipices. 

"Auxonne,  July  31s/. — We  are  delighted  to  have  taken 
our  leave  of  the  Jura,  and  got  into  a  flat  for  we  are 
quite  tired  of  hills,  rocks  and  precipices. 

"Sens,  August  2nd. — Yesterday  morning  we  left  Auxonne 
soon  after  five  and  breakfasted  at  Dijon,  a  large  town, 
but  we  did  not  stay  long  enough  to  see  anything.  At 
Montbard  (where  we  slept)  Fanny  and  I  walked  to  see 
the  Chateau  and  garden  of  Buffon  the  famous  naturalist, 
but  I  cannot  say  they  were  worth  seeing.  The  road, 
though  not  interesting,  has  been  excellent  all  the  way. 
The  country  seems  very  quiet,  but  I  find  there  were 


i8i7]  FONTAINEBLEAU  295 

riots  a  few  weeks  ago  about  corn.  Two  men  and  a  woman 
were  guillotined  in  consequence.  I  asked  what  the 
woman  had  done.  The  chambermaid  told  me  that  she 
put  some  grass  into  the  Prefect's  mouth  and  said '  Manges, 
coquin,  nous  n'avons  que  cela/ 

"  Hotel  de  Hollande,  Paris,  August  yd. — We  got  up  at 
half  past  three  this  morning,  and  at  four  were  seated  in 
the  carriage.  At  Fontainebleau  we  breakfasted  and  then 
went  to  see  the  Castle  which  is  very  beautiful.  Some 
magnificent  furniture  was  put  in  by  Bonaparte  ;  they 
showed  us  the  room  in  which  he  signed  his  abdication, 
and  the  table  on  which  he  wrote  it,  even  the  marks  of  his 
nails  as  he  clawed  it  in  his  agitation.  There  is  also  a  fine 
gallery  built  by  Francis  I. 

"  We  are  most  comfortably  settled  here  in  a  nice  clean 
Hotel,  with  a  dear  little  suite  of  apartments  for  which 
we  pay  eight  napoleons  a  week.  We  got  a  most  excellent 
dinner  from  a  restaurant  close  by. 

"  August  4th. — John  procured  us  a  laquais  de  place 
and  a  carriage  and  Fanny  and  I  have  been  to  several 
shops  and  sat  a  long  time  with  Lady  Elizabeth  Stuart, 
the  Ambassador's  wife.1  She  is  one  of  Lord  Hardwicke's 
daughters,  and  a  most  delightful  person.  She  has  given 
me  her  box  at  the  Play  for  tomorrow  night.  I  am 
delighted  with  Paris,  and  only  wish  I  had  more  money 
to  spend. 

"  August  5th.  —  We    have  had  a   visit   from   Lady2 

1  Lady  Elizabeth  Lindsay,  the  youngest  daughter  of  the  5th 
Earl  of  Balcarres,  married  in  1782  Philip  Yorke,  afterwards  3rd  Earl 
of  Hardwicke.  Lady  Elizabeth,  their  third  daughter,  married  Sir 
Charles  Stuart  (afterwards  Lord  Stuart  de  Rothsay),  and  became 
the  mother  of  Lady  Canning  and  Lady  Waterford.  It  was  considered 
very  remarkable  that  so  plain  a  couple  as  Lord  and  Lady  Stuart 
should  have  two  such  beautiful  daughters.  Their  mother  accounted 
for  it  by  her  ceaseless  contemplation  of  the  masterpieces  at  the  Louvre 
previous  to  their  births. 

2  Elizabeth,  Dowager-Countess  of  Aldborough,  lived  for  many 
years  in  Paris.  She  was  a  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Frederick  Hamilton, 
grandson  of  William,  Duke  of  Hamilton.  She  married  in  1777  John, 
3rd  Earl  of  Aldborough,  who  died  in  1823.  Lady  Aldborough  died 
1845. 


296    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

Aldborough — also  an  invitation  from  Lady  Mansfield  1 
for  to-night. 

"  August  6th. — I  really  think  Mr.  Calvert  might  have 
contrived  to  meet  us  here,  for  it  is  not  quite  the  thing  to 
leave  us  alone  at  an  Hotel.  However  we  are  pretty  safe. 
We  went  last  night  to  the  Theatre  Francais.  I  can't  say 
I  was  pleased  with  it,  as  it  was  a  ranting  tragedy,  ludicrous 
at  first  and  then  very  tiresome.  There  was  great  applause 
at  some  speech  which  referred  to  the  times.  Then  came 
a  noise  of  disapprobation  ;  my  heart  jumped  to  my 
mouth,  for  I  thought  there  was  going  to  be  a  riot,  but  it 
was  nothing.  Lady  Mansfield's  ball  afterwards  was  a 
very  good  one.  Denon,  who  was  in  Egypt  with  Bona- 
parte and  has  written  so  much,  was  there — a  particularly 
ugly  old  man. 

"  August  gth. — On  Thursday  we  dined  at  the  Ambassa- 
dor's. The  company  consisted  of  ^Lord  and  Lady  Jersey,2 
Lord  and  Lady  FitzRoy  Somerset,  3  Sir  William  and 
Lady  Gordon, 4  and  twelve  other  gentlemen.  We  did  not 
dine  till  half  past  six  and  broke  up  at  eight,  when  we 
came  home.  Yesterday  we  went  to  the  Palais  Royal, 
and  walked  about  with  Miss  Stanhope.  I  was  very  much 
amused  with  the  shops. 

"  August  10th. — No  Mr.  Calvert  yet  !  I  am  perfectly 
miserable,  but  endeavour  to  keep  myself  tranquil.  If  I 
once  yielded  to  my  fears  I  should  be  distracted.  We  went 
(in  order  to  drive  away  thought)  to  Lady  E.  Stuart's — 

1  Frederica,  daughter  of  William  Markham,  d.d.,  Archbishop  of 
York,  married  William,  3rd  Earl  of  Mansfield,  in  1797,  and  died  in 
i860. 

2  George  Child,  5th  Earl  of  Jersey,  was  born  1773,  and  married 
1804  Sarah,  eldest  daughter  of  John,  10th  Earl  of  Westmorland. 
Lord  Jersey  died  October  3rd,  1859. 

3  Lord  FitzRoy  Somerset,  afterwards  field-marshal  in  the  Army, 
born  1788,  youngest  son  of  the  5th  Duke  of  Beaufort.  He  was  raised 
to  the  Peerage  as  Baron  Raglan  1852,  and  died  1855  during  the  siege 
of  Sebastopol.  He  married  18 14  Emily,  daughter  of  William,  Earl  of 
Mornington. 

*  Sir  William  Duff  Gordon,  born  1772,  second  son  of  Alexander, 
Lord  Rockville,  and  grandson  of  William,  2nd  Earl  of  Aberdeen. 
He  married  18 10  Caroline,  daughter  of  Sir  G.  Cornwall,  Bart.,  and 
died  1823. 


i8i7]  PRESENTATION  AT  COURT  297 

a  dull  English  party,  rendered  still  duller  by  my  being  so 
out  of  spirits.  To-day  (Sunday)  we  have  been  there  to 
prayers,  but  it  was  more  like  an  Assembly,  and  I  don't 
like  it.  I  have  taken  quite  an  aversion  to  Paris.  Oh, 
that  I  was  at  Hunsdon  and  knew  all  were  well ! 

"  August  nth,  4  o'clock  a.m. — I  went  to  bed  where, 
unable  to  lie,  I  have  got  up.  It  has  occurred  to  me  that 
as  John  is  here  they  have  written  to  him  to  break  some 
misfortune  and  the  letter  is  lying  at  the  Post  Office.  I 
am  perfectly  wretched.  Oh  !  that  I  had  never  left 
home. 

"  August  13/A. — Most  unwillingly  I  went  last  night  to 
Court.  My  name  had  been  sent  in  to  the  King1  and  he 
had  appointed  eight  o'clock  to  receive  me,  therefore  I 
was  bound  to  go.  We  were  presented  first  of  all  to  His 
Majesty,  then  in  another  suite  of  rooms  to  the  Duchesse 
d'Angouleme,2  and  in  another  to  the  Due  d'Angouleme. 
They  received  us  very  graciously,  and  spoke  to  me. 
The  Due  d'Angouleme  asked  me  several  questions  and 
said  that  I  spoke  French  tres  bien. 

"  The  King  is  a  fat,  good  humoured  looking  man  ;  the 
Duchesse  moderately  good  looking,  but  her  voice  is 
disagreeable.  The  Due  I  took  rather  a  fancy  to,  though 
he  is  very  plain.  The  whole  thing  was  over  in  half  an 
hour. 

"  The  next  day  I  drove  to  the  Post  Office  to  get  my 
letters,  and  finding  none  returned  home  in  the  depths 
of  despair.  Jack  Warre  tried  to  comfort  me  by  assuring 
me  that  the  post  was  uncertain,  but  I  refused  to  be 
comforted.  At  last  to  my  great  relief,  came  a  letter  from 
Mr.  Calvert  telling  me  that  everyone  was  well,  and  that 
he  was  to  leave  London  on  Saturday  and  pour  surcrott 
de  bonheur  at  about  seven  o'clock  the  dear  soul  arrived 
himself  safe  and  sound.  I  was  in  raptures  at  seeing  him, 
and  indeed  I  believe  he  was  just  as  glad  to  see  me. 

1  Louis  XVIII,  King  of  France,  re-entered  his  capital  July  8th,  1815. 

2  Madame  Royale,  only  daughter  of  the  ill-fated  Louis  XVI  and 
Marie  Antoinette,  married  her  first  cousin,  the  Due  d'Angouleme,  son 
of  the  Comte  d'Artois,  afterwards  Charles  X. 


298    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

"  August  14th. — We  went  last  night  to  the  Theatre 
Francais,  Lady  E.  Stuart  having  lent  us  her  box.  We 
saw  '  Le  Joueur  '  and  '  Le  Somnambule.'  I  cannot  say  I 
was  much  amused.  Afterwards  we  went  to  drink  tea 
with  the  Spencer  Stanhopes. 

"  We  walked  this  morning  on  the  Boulevards,  saw 
the  Garde  Royale  and  went  to  the  Pantheon,  a  very 
beautiful  building.  We  mounted  into  the  Dome  and  had 
a  magnificent  view  of  Paris  from  the  Galleries. 

"  August  15th. — Last  night  we  went  to  the  Jardin  de 
Beau j on,  in  which  are  what  they  call  the  Montagnes 
Francaises,  a  great  rage  at  present.  They  have  cars 
which  hold  two  people,  and  a  bar  across  to  prevent  their 
tumbling  out,  as  they  go  with  a  velocity  that  is  really 
surprising  to  look  at.  No  accident  has  happened  as  yet, 
but  I  should  not  like  to  go  in  one.  We  went  over  the 
Luxembourg.  They  are  repairing  Catherine  de  Medici's 
room  which  is  beautiful. 

"  August  15th. — Yesterday  we  walked  in  the  Tuileries 
gardens.  At  night  we  went  to  a  ball ;  Fanny  danced  with 
Captain  Hay  and  Mr.  Spencer  Stanhope.  To-day  we  have 
been  to  see  a  fountain  which  is  being  erected  on  the  spot 
where  the  Bastille  stood.  It  will  be  long  finishing,  if 
ever  done.  An  elephant  of  immense  size  is  to  be  placed 
on  the  top.  A  staircase  is  to  be  in  one  of  its  legs  and  a  room 
in  its  belly,  and  at  the  top  there  is  to  be  a  gallery  from 
which  there  will  be  a  view  of  all  Paris. 

"  August  18th. — We  went  last  night  to  the  Duchesse 
d'Escars.1  She  lives  at  the  Tuileries,  perched  up  so  high 
that  we  were  quite  out  of  breath  getting  to  her  apart- 
ments which  are  very  low,  and  rather  like  the  cabin  of  a 
ship.    All  the  fine  people  were  there. 

"  August  20th. — Mr.  Smith  2  (a  son  of  Lord  Carring- 
ton's),  Jack  Warre  and  a  Mr.  Hort  dined  last  night  at  the 
Thompson's  with  us.     Soon  after  nine,  we  adjourned  to 

1  The  Due  d'Escars  lived  at  the  Tuileries,  he  being  the  first  Chamber- 
lain to  Louis  XVIII. 

2  The  Hon.  Robert  John  Smith,  born  1796,  succeeded  his  father  as 
2nd  Baron  Carrington  1838.  He  married  1822  Elizabeth,  daughter  of 
Cecil  Weld,  1st  Lord  Forester. 


i8i7]  SIGHTSEEING  299 

the  Ruggieri  Gardens,  where  there  were  fire- works  and 
1  Montagnes  Suisses  '  which  means  going  down  an  almost 
perpendicular  place  in  cars — very  terrific  to  look  at. 

"  August  21st. — To-day  we  have  been  to  Vincennes 
and  saw  the  spot  on  which  the  poor  Due  d'Enghien  was 
shot,  his  coffin  in  the  chapel  and  the  stone  with  which 
they  broke  his  head,  as  the  two  shots  had  not  killed  him. 
The  man  who  told  us  this  was  much  affected  while  re- 
lating it.  After  driving  through  the  Bois  de  Vincennes 
we  walked  through  a  place  a  quarter  of  a  mile  long 
excavated  by  Bonaparte  for  a  canal  but  never  finished. 

"  At  the  Veterinary  College  we  saw  some  dissections, 
which  made  me  feel  very  sick." 


CHAPTER    XXIII 

A  ball  at  the  Embassy — Frederick  William  III — The  Due  and 
Duchesse  de  Berri — Neuilly  and  Malmaison — Environs  of 
Paris — The  Fete  of  the  Rosiere — Departure  for  Holland — 
Broek  and  Saardam — Leyden  and  its  organ — Home  at  last 
— Mrs.  Calvert's  village  school — Macready  and  Liston — 
Death  of  Princess  Charlotte — National  sorrow — Marriage  of 
Princess  Elizabeth — The  Duke  of  Devonshire  and  Sir 
Richard  Croft  —  Lady  Althorp  —  Disappearance  of  Lord 
Charles  Murray — The  Dandy-killer — Strange  discovery  at 
the  Cape — A  very  young  couple. 

"  1817.     August  2nd. 

1AM  heartily  tired  of  Paris,  and  I  long  to  set  out  for 
Holland.  Last  night  we  went  to  a  ball  at  the 
Embassy.  The  King  of  Prussia  1  was  there.  He 
has  a  distinguished  look  that  would  always  attract 
attention,  but  he  holds  himself  awkwardly,  and 
has  a  long  face,  or  rather  nose,  that  gives  an  unpleasant 
look  to  his  countenance  ;  he  is,  however,  reckoned  hand- 
some, though  rather  anxious  and  melancholy  in  appear- 
ance. 

"  All  this  morning  we  have  been  at  the  Louvre,  and  to 
see  the  manufacture  of  Gobelin  tapestry. 

"  August  25th. — At  the  Duchesse  d'Aumont's  concert 
we  met  the  King  of  Prussia,  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  and 
all  the  fine  world. 

"  This  is  a  bad  St.  Louis,  which  is  unlucky,  as  the 
people  were  to  have  been  amused,  and  they  require  to 
be  kept  in  good  humour  with  the  Royal  family.  I  was 
amused  with  a  brochure  I  heard  yesterday  : — 

"  '  Une  ferme  a  vendre.    Un  gros  cochon  appele  Louis, 

1  Frederick  William  III.  He  succeeded  to  the  throne  in  1797, 
having  married  1793  Louisa  of  Mecklenburg-Strelitz.     He  died  1840. 

300 


i8i73  ROYALTY  IN  FRANCE  301 

un  dindon  appele  D'Artois,  un  coq  d'Angouleme,  et  une 
poule  qui  ne  pond  pas — le  tout  pour  un  Napoleon/ 

"  August  28th. — The  Princess  Castelcicala's  ball  was  on 
Monday.  The  crowd  in  the  streets  was  so  great  that  we 
did  not  get  into  the  house  till  twelve  o'clock,  just  in  time 
to  see  the  Due  and  Duchesse  de  Berri,1  who  were  on  the 
point  of  going  away.  She  is  rather  pretty — he  a  little 
plain  man.  The  Due  and  Duchesse  d'Orleans  were  there, 
also  the  Dowager  Duchesse,  and  Monsieur.2  I  was  also 
gratified  with  the  sight  of  many  of  the  French  Marshals, 
Suchet,  Marmont,  etc. ;  also  of  the  Duchesse  de  Ragusa, 
Marmont's  wife.  I  am  told  they  never  speak  to  each 
other.  Almost  everyone  was  covered  with  jewels,  and 
gold  and  silver. 

"  Yesterday  we  went  to  Neuilly,  but  were  not  allowed 
in,  as  the  Due  d'Orleans  3  was  there.  Then  we  went  to 
Malmaison,  hardly  worth  seeing  except  as  the  residence 
of  such  celebrated  people.  There  is  a  beautiful  picture 
of  Josephine  ;  a  most  interesting  face,  and  she  seems 
to  have  been  amazingly  beloved. 

"  We  proceeded  to  St.  Germains,  where,  while  our 
dinner  was  preparing,  we  went  to  see  the  Castle  and  the 
apartments  James  II.  inhabited.  A  more  dilapidated 
miserable  place  I  never  saw ;  most  of  it  is  converted 
into  barracks. 

"  Directly  after  breakfast  to-day  we  went  to  the 
Chateau  de  Meudon.  It  was  formerly  the  residence  of 
Louis  XVFs  aunts,  and  since  then  of  the  little  King 
of  Rome  4  and  his  governess.  The  view  from  the  top 
is  magnificent,  the  finest  I  have  seen  since  we  came 
here. 

"  After  seeing  the  china  manufactory  at  Sevres  we 

1  The  Due  de  Berri  was  the  younger  son  of  the  Comte  d'Artois, 
afterwards  Charles  X.  He  married  Maria  Caroline  of  Naples,  and  was 
assassinated  February  13th,  1820. 

2  The  Comte  d'Artois,  afterwards  Charles  X. 

3  Afterwards  King  Louis  Philippe.  He  was  born  1773,  chosen 
King  of  the  French  1830,  abdicated  1848,  died  August  26th,  1850. 

*  Only  child  of  Napoleon  and  Marie  Louise,  sometimes  called  the 
Duke  of  Reichstadt.    He  died  July  12th,  1832. 


302    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

went  to  St.  Cloud,  a  beautiful  palace,  furnished  with  the 
greatest  taste  by  Buonaparte. 

"  August  2gth. — My  sister,  Mr.  Knox,  and  Fanny 
arrived  yesterday  evening.  John  had  engaged  comfort- 
able apartments  for  them  at  the  Hotel  des  Departments 
du  Rhin  *  in  the  Place  Vendome.  After  visiting  them 
we  went  to  Tivoli,  where  a  balloon  went  up  with  a  lady 
in  it  who  lets  off  fireworks  when  up  in  the  skies. 

"  September  1st. — We  dined  at  Riches  last  night,  and 
then  went  to  the  Italian  Opera  ;  not  so  bad  as  the 
French,  but  I  soon  tired  of  it.  On  Sunday  Fanny  and 
I,  who  had  got  tickets  for  the  Church  at  Suresnes,  went 
there  to  see  the  Concurrence  of  the  Rosiere,  who  was 
to  be  crowned  by  the  Duchesse  de  Berri.  She  is  cer- 
tainly not  pretty  ;  her  face,  in  repose,  is  stupid  and 
expressionless.  But  it  improves  when  she  smiles  or 
speaks.  She  was  dressed  in  pink,  with  roses  on  her  head, 
and  diamonds.  Her  ladies  all  wore  court  dresses.  One 
of  them,  the  Duchesse  de  Reggio,  is  very  handsome. 
The  rosiere,  unfortunately,  was  ugly.  High  Mass  was  per- 
formed, and  the  sermon  was  like  the  acting  of  a  French 
play.  Getting  out,  the  crowd  was  quite  unpleasant,  and 
the  soldiers  brutal  in  their  manner.  Fanny  and  I,  with- 
out a  gentleman,  were  an  hour  before  we  found  the 
carriage. 

"  Sept.  yd. — We  dined  '  pick-nick  '  with  my  sister 
yesterday,  and  this  morning  early,  took  leave  of  Paris, 
which  I  cannot  say  I  have  the  least  wish  to  see  again." 

Mrs.  Calvert  and  her  party  travelled  through  Belgium 
into  Holland,  with  which  she  was  very  much  delighted. 

"Haarlem,  Sept.  13th.  —  The  roads  in  this  country 
are  charming,  in  many  places  paved  with  brick.  At 
seven  in  the  morning  we  embarked  in  the  passage  boat 
to  visit  North  Holland.  We  breakfasted  under  some 
trees  at  the  side  of  the  canal,  and  there  hired  a  '  karabou/ 
a  comical  sort  of  carriage  with  three  rows  of  benches,  one 

1  Now  called  the  H6tel  du  Rhin. 


i8i7]  BROEK  AND  SAARDAM  303 

behind  the  other.  It  contained  us  three,  our  two  servants, 
and  a  laquais  de  place  we  had  hired  for  the  day.  We  pro- 
ceeded to  Broek  where  we  had  to  leave  the  carriage,  as 
the  streets  are  not  made  to  drive  in.  They  are  beautifully 
paved  with  bricks  in  different  shapes  and  the  houses  are 
most  curious,  highly  ornamented,  and  very  much  in  the 
Chinese  style.  Their  cleanliness  is  extraordinary.  They 
paint  twice  a  year,  and  wash  without  ceasing,  but  they  are 
not  equally  tidy  in  their  persons,  and  their  appearance 
is  certainly  a  disgrace  to  such  well-kept  houses. 

"  We  after  that  went  to  Saardam  ;  not  so  pretty  as 
Broek,  but  very  curious.  There  are  150  little  bridges 
in  it  leading  into  houses.  Peter  the  Great  *  made  it 
famous  from  his  having  lived  there  and  learnt  the  trade 
of  ship  building.  We  saw  his  house — a  little  miserable 
place — and  we  sat  in  his  chairs  which  he  made  himself. 
Everything  was  exactly  in  the  state  in  which  he  left  it. 
North  Holland  seemed  to  me  ugly  and  disagreeable — all 
cut  up  by  water.  We  did  not  get  back  to  Amsterdam  till 
three  o'clock ;  owing  to  various  delays  in  that  stinking 
town  (for  the  smell  of  the  canal  was  really  pestilential), 
we  did  not  leave  till  seven.  It  was  then  nearly  dark,  and 
before  we  had  gone  half  a  mile  it  began  to  lighten  and  the 
whole  sky  seemed  in  a  blaze.  Never  was  I  out  on  such 
a  night.  I  covered  my  face  with  a  pillow,  and  I  resigned 
myself  to  my  fate.  Whenever  I  peeped  out  it  was  either 
pitch  dark,  or  else  the  sky  perfectly  illumined  by  the 
lightning,  all  the  time  our  road  lay  close  to  the  canal,  and 
there  was  some  danger  lest  we  should  drive  into  it.  Even 
Mr.  C.  owned  that  he  did  not  know  what  might  happen. 
Thank  God  we  arrived  here  safe,  but  very  wet,  after  a 
drive  of  two  hours  and  a  half,  and  delighted  to  get  into 
a  comfortable  inn,  where  we  drank  some  hot  tea  and  went 
to  bed. 

"  Ley  den,  Sept.  14th. — We  were  enchanted  with  the 
organ  here  ;  its  powers  are  really  beyond  description.  The 

1  Peter  the  Great,  born  at  Moscow,  became  sole  Sovereign  of  Russia 
in  1689.  He  visited  Holland  and  England  in  1697,  and  worked  in  the 
dockyard  at  Deptford. 


304    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1817 

man  played  a  battle  and  a  storm,  and  really  I  could  have 
imagined  I  heard  the  cannon  roar.  As  to  the  thunder 
it  was  quite  terrific. 

"  Rotterdam,  Sept.  15th. — We  have  been  to  the  King's 
Palace  in  the  wood,  and  I  saw  some  paintings  and  a 
Chinese  room.  I  like  Rotterdam  infinitely  better  than 
Amsterdam.  We  are  at  a  very  good  inn,  kept  by  an 
Englishman. 

"  Antwerp,  Sept.  16th. — I  hear  we  have  to  ferry  across 
the  Scheldt.  I  thought  we  had  done  with  those  odious 
ferries  ! 

"  Calais,  Sept.  igth. — Here  we  are  arrived,  and  worried 
to  death  by  the  sailors,  who  all  want  us  to  go  in  their 
respective  vessels. 

"  It  really  was  like  a  scene  in  a  play  when  they  actually 
followed  us  into  our  room,  all  talking  at  once.  In  the 
meantime  the  wind  is  high,  and  not  favourable.  How- 
ever, we  have  settled  to  go  in  the  '  Lord  Sidmouth  '  to- 
morrow. I  am  sick  at  the  thoughts  of  it,  and  could  eat  no 
dinner. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  Street,  Sept.  22nd. — After  all,  the 
weather  was  beautiful  for  our  voyage,  and  the  tide  in  our 
favour.  At  eleven  we  set  off  in  a  little  boat  guided  by  a 
Frenchman.  I  was  a  good  deal  frightened,  and  did  not 
like  this,  and  we  had  quite  half  a  league  to  go  before 
reaching  the  ship.  It  was  very  comfortable,  a  nice  ship, 
and  a  very  civil  captain.  There  were  no  other  passengers 
except  a  lady  and  gentleman  and  their  little  boy.  We  all 
sat  on  deck,  and  glided  along  with  hardly  any  motion,  so 
much  so  that  we  feared  it  would  be  too  calm  to  arrive. 
However,  we  disembarked  most  joyfully  at  Dover  after 
six  hours'  passage,  and  slept  at  the  '  Ship '  Inn,  reaching 
London  the  next  day  in  time  to  dine  with  my  dear 
mother.  I  must  now  write  to  Princess  Elizabeth  to  tell 
her  of  the  Queen  of  Wurtemburg's  parcel,  so  I  can  add 
no  more." 

Before  she  left  London  Mrs.  Calvert  received  a  very 
kind  note  from  the  Princess  with  directions  about  the 


i8i7]       DEATH  OF  PRINCESS  CHARLOTTE        305 

parcel,  and  assurances  that  the  Queen  of  Wurtemberg 
was  delighted  to  have  seen  her. 

1   National  education  was  at  a  low  ebb  in  those  days. 
Mrs.  Calvert  writes  soon  after  her  return  : 

"  We  have  just  set  up  a  school  for  the  poor,  and  Fanny 
and  I  have  spent  five  hours  each  day  assisting  Mrs. 
Corney,  the  schoolmistress.  I  do  not  mean  always  to  do 
that,  but  I  shall  go  often  for  some  time  to  come  in  order 
to  see  that  all  goes  on  well. 

"  November  2nd. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  town  and  took 
up  our  abode  in  Grosvenor  Street,  instead  of  Wimpole 
Street.  At  night  we  went  with  Miss  Tew  to  Co  vent  Gar- 
den, and  saw  '  The  Siege  of  Belgrade/  and  '  Father  and 
His  Children,'  at  which  we  cried  terribly.  Macready  *  did 
the  part  uncommonly  well,  but  it  is,  I  think,  a  horrible 
representation.  On  Wednesday  we  went  again  to  the 
Play,  and  were  much  amused  with  Liston  2  as  '  Tony 
Lumpkin.' 

"  There  are  terrible  accounts  from  Ireland  of  the  fever. 
It  is  really  like  the  plague." 

Mrs.  Calvert  goes  on  to  describe  the  melancholy  event 
that  plunged  England  into  mourning  about  this  time. 

"  Nov.  nth. — On  Friday  we — indeed  the  whole  nation — 
were  greatly  shocked  at  the  news  of  poor  Princess  Char- 
lotte's 3  having  given  birth  to  a  still-born  son  and  expired 
a  few  hours  later.  Never  was  there  anything  like  the  sen- 
sation produced  by  this  unexpected  calamity.  No  one 
could  read  the  account  without  tears,  and  I  hear  that  all 
London  is  in  a  state  of  despondency  and  gloom.  Owing 
to  the  general  mourning  it  will  remain  so  for  a  long  time." 

1  Macready   (William   Charles)    1 793-1 873.      He   was   a   thorough 
artist,  and  a  man  of  undoubted  genius.     In  some  Shakesperian  char- 
acters (King  Lear,  for  example)  he  seems  to  have  had  no  successor. 
K   2  Liston  (John)  1 776-1 846,  a  celebrated  comic  actor.     He  obtained 
the  largest  salary  ever  paid  in  his  time  to  a  comedian. 

3  Princess  Charlotte  Augusta  of  Wales  was  born  March  7th,  1796  ; 
married  May  2nd,  18 16,  Prince  Leopold  of  Saxe-Coburg,  and  died 
in  child-bed  November  6th,  18 17. 


3o6    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [iSiS 

Our  recent  national  bereavement *  may  help  us  to  form 
some  idea  of  the  universal  grief  and  depression.  But  in 
the  Princess  Charlotte's  case  a  touch  of  pathos  was  added 
because  she  was  so  young  and  so  absolutely  happy,  and 
it  was  on  her  that  the  hopes  of  the  nation  were  centred. 

"  Nov.  18th. — Princess  Charlotte  is  to  be  buried  to- 
morrow. The  papers  are  full  of  her  and  of  the  lamenta- 
tions of  the  entire  kingdom. 

"  Fanny  and  I  have  been  out  to  dine  and  sleep.  We 
met  the  Bishop  of  Norwich  2  and  his  daughters,  the 
former  a  delightful  old  man,  only  rather  too  fond  of 
embracing  the  part  of  the  Catholics,  who  call  him  their 
Pope. 

"  On  Christmas  Day  James  Knox  arrived.  Sir  John 
Sebright  and  his  children  left  us  that  day  and  travelled 
(I  think  very  indecently)  just  at  the  hours  of  Divine 
Service." 

"  The  King  can  do  no  wrong."  Sir  John  Sebright 
apparently  could  do  no  right,  according  to  Mrs.  Calvert, 
who  cordially  disliked  him. 

"  January  ist,  1818. — We  are  now  entering  upon  a 
new  year.  I  am  anything  but  satisfied  with  my  own 
conduct  this  last  year.  I  have  been  often  peevish, 
testy,  and  out  of  humour,  but  somehow  I  feel  as  if  I  was 
going  to  improve.  I  am  so  determined  on  it.  Heaven 
grant  I  may  be  right  !  !  ! 

"  Our  tenants'  ball  took  place  on  the  second.  There 
were  some  very  pretty  girls,  and  all  went  off  very  well. 
We  took  our  leave  of  them  at  twelve  o'clock,  and  went 
to  our  supper,  but  my  boys  and  the  young  men  kept  it 
up  until  five  or  six  o'clock  in  the  morning. 

1  May  6th,  19 10. 

2  The  Right  Rev.  Henry  Bathurst,  ll.d.,  born  1744,  Bishop  of  Nor- 
wich 1805-37,  married  1780  Grace,  daughter  of  Charles  Coote,  Dean  of 
Kilfenora,  and  sister  of  Charles,  2nd  Lord  Castlecoote.  When  he 
visited  Ireland  he  was  presented  by  the  Irish  Catholics  with  a  tablet, 
on  which  is  inscribed  an  address  thanking  him  for  his  efforts  in  support 
of  religious  liberty. 


Augn  Edouart,  fecit,  r82Q 
THE    RIGHT    REVD. 
BISHOP    OF 


HENRY    15ATHURST, 
NORWICH 


i8i8]    MARRIAGE  OF  PRINCESS  ELIZABETH     307 

"  Upper  Wimpole  Street,  Feb.  18th. — The  mourning  for 
Princess  Charlotte  is  out  to-day.  We,  however,  are  in 
mourning  for  Lord  Abercorn,1  who  has  just  died  of  a  liver 
complaint. 

"  Feb.  8th. — Last  Monday  we  had  dinner  at  Lord 
Limerick's.  The  Bishop  of  Norwich,  the  Bishop  of  Deny,2 
and  Mrs.  W.  Knox  were  there.  Mrs.  and  Miss  Bathurst, 
and  the  Bishop  of  Derry's  daughter  came  in  the  evening. 

"  Last  Wednesday  I  became,  Alas  !  a  complete  old 
woman — fifty  years  old.  Well !  The  worst  is  now  over. 
I  always  dreaded  that  age.  Now  all  pretence  to  any- 
thing like  youth  is  over.  I  hope  I  shall  bear  growing  old 
with  a  better  grace,  and  God  grant  I  may  grow  better  ! 

"  On  Friday  we  dined  at  home,  and  at  ten  o'clock 
Fanny  and  I  set  out  for  Lady  Charleville's,3  but  when  we 
arrived  in  Grosvenor  Square,  the  coachman  stopped, 
and  said  he  could  not  venture  any  further  as  the  fog  was 
so  impenetrable  that  he  could  not  drive  with  any  safety, 
therefore  we  were  forced  to  grope  our  way  home  again. 
On  that  same  afternoon  when  Edmond  was  coming  to 
dinner  he  saved  Mr.  Vaughan's  life.  A  man  had  knocked 
him  down,  and  was  beating  him  about  the  head.  Edmond 
rescued  him,  pursued  the  robber,  and  secured  him,  and 
took  him  to  the  watch-house. 

"  Mr.  C.  dined  with  the  Speaker  4  to-day.  I  had  a  great 
many  gentlemen  morning  visitors. 

"  Feb.  qth. — Princess  Elizabeth  is  going  to  be  married 
to  the  Prince  of  Hesse  Homburg.5  They  say  he  pro- 
posed twenty  years  ago  for  her,  that  the  King  put  the 

1  James,  ist  Marquess  of  Abercorn,  born  1756,  died  January,  18 18. 

2  Right  Rev.  the  Hon.  William  Knox,  d.d.,  Bishop  of  Derry, 
1 794-1 83 1,  fourth  son  of  Thomas,  Viscount  Northland,  married  1785 
Anne,  daughter  of  James  Spencer. 

3  Charles  William,  ist  Viscount  Charleville  (the  title  is  now  extinct), 
married  1798  Catherine,  widow  of  James  Tisdall,  Esq.,  and  daughter 
of  Thomas  Townley  Dawson,  Esq. 

4  Sir  Charles  Manners-Sutton,  g.c.b.  Speaker  from  1817  to  1834, 
eldest  son  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  He  was  created  Viscount 
Canterbury  March  10th,   1835. 

5  Princess  Elizabeth,  third  daughter  of  George  III,  born  1770, 
married  1818  H.S.H.  Frederick  Landgrave  and  Prince  of*Hesse- 
Homburg.    Her  Royal  Highness  died  at  Frankfurt  January  10th,  1840. 


308    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

letter  in  his  pocket ;  the  German  troubles  came  on,  and 
it  was  no  more  thought  of.  I  believe  it  is  a  very  poor 
match.1  The  family  are  a  very  amiable  one.  Mr.  Langs- 
dorff,  who  was  with  me  yesterday,  says  the  Principality, 
though  very  small,  is  quite  a  little  Paradise.2 

"  The  Duke  of  Clarence  has  sent  his  proposals  to  the 
King  of  Denmark's  daughter.  I  hear  she  is  very  ugly, 
having  white  hair,  eye-brows,  and  lashes,  and  red  eyes. 
The  Duke  of  Cambridge  is  to  be  married  directly  to  the 
daughter  of  the  Prince  of  Hesse  Cassel.3  They  seem  all 
marrying  mad  ! 

"  Feb.  10th. — Fanny  and  I  drove  out  to  pay  visits 
yesterday.  We  got  in  at  Lady  Westmeath's.  She  is  a 
dear  little  woman,  and  has  got  the  nicest  little  girl  of 
nearly  four  years  old,  Lady  Rosa  Nugent.  She  ought  to 
be  pretty  with  such  a  pretty  name. 

"  Feb.  14th. — Mr.  C.  dined  at  the  Bishop  of  Norwich's. 
Fanny  and  I  dined  tete-a-tete.  We  went  in  the  evening  to 
Mrs.  Bathurst's,  and  afterwards  to  Lady  Charleville's. 

"  There  is  nothing  talked  of  but  a  story  that  the  Duke 
of  Devonshire  4  is  illegitimate  ;  that  he  was  not  the  late 
Duchess'  son  but  Lady  Elizabeth  Foster's,5  by  the  Duke, 
and  was  changed  for  the  Duchess'  daughter.6    The  Duke 

1  The  Landgrave's  income  was  said  to  be  only  ^300  a  year. 

2  Visitors  to  Homburg  will  remember  the  quaint  old  castle  in 
which  Princess  Elizabeth  passed  most  of  the  remainder  of  her  life, 
its  delightful  shady  gardens,  and  the  hunting  box  which  she  built 
in  a  wood  and  surrounded  with  fir  trees  in  order  to  recall  her  beloved 
English  home. 

8  The  Duke  of  Cambridge  married  18 18  H.S.H.  Princess  Augusta 
of  Hesse-Cassel,  who  was  born  1797. 

4  William  Spencer,  6th  Duke  of  Devonshire,  k.g.,  born  May  21st, 
1790,  died  unmarried  January  17th,  1858. 

6  Lady  Elizabeth  Hervey,  second  daughter  of  Frederick,  4th 
Earl  of  Bristol  and  Bishop  of  Derry.  She  married  first  John  Thomas 
Foster,  cousin  of  Lord  Oriel,  and,  secondly,  in  October,  1809,  as  his 
second  wife,  William,  5th  Duke  of  Devonshire,  k.g.  She  died  March 
20th,   1829,  without  legitimate  issue. 

6  This  absurd  story  was  not  generally  believed,  as  will  be  seen 
from  the  following  extract  from  a  letter  written  in  April,  18 18,  by 
Mrs.  Howard  of  Corby  Castle  to  Lady  Bedingfield :  "  Prince  Hesse 
Homburg's  marriage  put  a  stop  to  the  scandal  circulated  about  the 
Duke  of  Devonshire,  which  was  as  infamous  as  unfounded — Lord 
St.  Helens  sat  in  the  same  box  at  the  Opera  with  Lady  Elizabeth 


HON.    MRS.    WILLIAM    KNOX 


i8i8]  A  STRANGE  STORY  309 

married  Lady  E.  Foster,  who  is  now  living  in  Italy,  and 
they  say  Lord  George  Cavendish,1  who  would  be  Duke 
if  this  were  true,  is  gone  abroad  to  enquire  into  it.  Sir 
Richard  Croft,2  who  attended  the  two  ladies,  and  was  of 
course,  if  this  is  true,  privy  to  it,  shot  himself  yesterday 
morning  while  attending  a  Mrs.  Thackeray.3  Some  say 
that  he  thought  she  would  die,  and  that  the  recollection 
of  Princess  Charlotte's  losing  her  life  under  his  care  pro- 
duced insanity.  Others  say  he  was  so  hurt  at  the  Prince's 
not  speaking  to  him  at  the  Levee  that  that  produced  it. 
Others  again  say  it  was  shame  at  the  discovery  made  of 
the  share  he  had  in  changing  the  children.  Be  it  as  it  may, 
however,  he  retired  into  a  room  where,  unfortunately, 
were  a  pair  of  pistols,  and  shot  himself.  It  is  a  very 
extraordinary  story. 

"  Feb.  jyth. — Mrs.  William  Knox  sat  with  me  some 
time  yesterday  morning,  and  afterwards  Lady  Davy,4 

Foster  the  night  of  his  birth  at  Paris  ;  and  his  observation  was  that 
she  looked  as  thin  as  a  Wrayle  "  (Jerningham  Letters,  II,  p.  120). 

1  Lord  George  Augustus  Henry  Cavendish,  third  son  of  William, 
4th  Duke  of  Devonshire,  k.g.  He  was  in  183 1  created  Earl  of  Burling- 
ton, his  grandson  William  succeeded  his  cousin  as  7th  Duke  of  Devon- 
shire on  January  17th,  1858. 

2  Sir  Richard  Croft,  6th  Baronet  of  Croft  Castle,  the  celebrated 
accoucheur,  born  1762,  married  1789  Margaret,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Denman,  m.d.,  and  sister  of  Thomas,  1st  Lord  Denman.  He  had 
been  the  unlucky  attendant  on  Princess  Charlotte  when  she  lost 
her  life  at  the  birth  of  her  child.  That  sad  event  had  preyed  on  his 
mind  so  much,  that  while  attending  at  the  lying-in  of  Mrs.  Thackeray, 
in  Wimpole  Street,  whose  labour  was  tedious,  he  agreed  to  retire 
for  a  few  hours  to  another  room  ;  there,  unfortunately,  he  found  a 
brace  of  loaded  pistols,  and  made  away  with  himself.  His  widow 
survived  until  1847. 

3  She  was  Mary  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of  Alexander  Cottin  of 
Chevrells,  Herefordshire,  and  married  18 16  George  Thackeray,  d.d., 
Provost  of  King's  College,  Cambridge,  Vice-Chancellor  and  Chaplain- 
in-Ordinary  to  Kings  George  III,  George  IV,  and  William  IV.  He 
was  first  cousin  to  Richmond  Makepeace  Thackeray,  the  father  of 
the  great  novelist.  He  died  October  21st,  1850.  His  wife  lost  her 
life  at  the  birth  of  her  daughter  February  18th,  18 18. 

*  The  daughter  and  heiress  of  Charles  Kerr  of  Kelso,  and  the 
widow  of  Mr.  Apreece.  Lady  Davy  was  a  brunette  of  the  brunettes, 
and  her  devoted  friend,  Sydney  Smith,  used  to  say  of  her  that  she 
was  "  as  brown  as  dry  toast."  She  was  a  woman  of  great  powers 
of  mind  ;  was  acquainted  with  Madame  de  Stael,  and  is  said  to  be 
the  original  of  "  Corinne."    She  died  in  Park  Street  in  1855. 


310    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

who  is  very  agreeable.  She  is  very  blue,  and,  as  I  am 
very  anxious  to  get  into  that  sort  of  society,  I  like  to 
cultivate  her.  She  has  asked  us  Saturday  evening. 
Fanny  and  I  dined  tete-a-tete  and  went  at  night  first 
to  Lady  B.  Bouverie,  then  to  Lady  Ellenborough's,  then 
to  Lady  Salisbury's.  At  the  last  we  saw  the  Prince  of 
Homburg.  The  first  exclamation  of  everyone  was, 
'  Well. !  '  He  really  is  not  as  hideous  as  I  expected.  He  is 
short  and  fat,  and  really  ugly  enough.  He  has  but  one 
long  tooth  in  his  head,  but  his  moustache  nearly  conceals 
the  deficiency.  He  don't  much  look  like  a  gentleman,  but 
I  hear  Princess  Elizabeth  is  very  much  in  love  with  him. 

"  Feb.  2yd. — I  visited  Lady  Al thorp  yesterday,  who 
is  expecting  a  child  in  May.  She  is  rather  nervous  about 
herself,  which  I  do  not  wonder  at,  as  so  very  many  have 
died  in  that  way  lately. 

"  After  Mrs.  Thackeray's  death,  her  sister,  whose  house 
she  was  in,  went  mad.    It  is  a  dreadful  tragedy. 

"  Last  night  Mr.  C.  and  I  went  to  a  blue  party  at 
Lady  Davy's.  There  were  a  great  many  clever  men  there. 
Baron  Humboldt  *  (the  Russian  Ambassador),  Sir  James 
Mackintosh,2  Dr.  Holland,3  who  has  written  a  very  enter- 
taining book  of  travels,  Mr.  Paine  Knight,4  and  others 

1  Baron  von  Humboldt,  elder  brother  of  the  naturalist,  eminent 
as  a  statesman.     He  was  born  at  Potsdam  1767,  and  died  1835. 

2  A  celebrated  philosopher  (1 765-1 832).  He  was  one  of  the  chief 
celebrities  at  Holland  House. 

3  Sir  Henry  Holland,  born  1788.  He  was  one  of  the  best-known 
men  in  London  society  and  a  great  traveller.  In  1837  he  was  appointed 
Physician-Extraordinary  to  Queen  Victoria,  in  1840  Physician-in- 
Ordinary  to  the  Prince  Consort.  He  refused  the  Baronetcy  offered 
him  by  Lord  Melbourne  in  1841,  became  Physician-in-Ordinary  to 
the  Queen  in  1852,  and  accepted  a  Baronetcy  in  1853.  His  maternal 
grandmother  was  a  sister  of  Josiah  Wedgwood  (the  potter).  He  was 
author  of  many  medical  and  scientific  works,  and  in  18 15  wrote  Travels 
in  the  Ionian  Isles,  Albania,  Thessaly,  Macedonia,  etc.,  during  18 12- 
18 1 3.  He  was  father  of  1st  Lord  Knutsford  and  of  the  late  Canon 
Francis  Holland. 

4  Richard  Payne  Knight  (1 750-1 820),  a  numismatist.  As  a  con- 
noisseur and  authority  on  ancient  art  his  reputation  stood  very 
high.  He  had  a  collection  of  bronzes  which  far  surpassed  any  other — 
many  of  them  had  belonged  to  the  Due  de  Chaulnes,  who  died  at  the 
beginning  of  the  French  Revolution.  No  less  remarkable  was  his 
collection  of  Greek  coins. 


i8i8]  A  SOCIAL  PROBLEM  311 

whose  names  I  do  not  recollect,  were  there.  Lady  Holland 
was  sitting  like  a  queen  in  the  corner.  We  staid  until 
nearly  twelve.  I  hope  she  will  invite  me  again.  I  read 
prayers  and  a  sermon  at  home.  Yesterday  I  went  for 
a  short  time  to  Lady  Charleville's  in  the  morning  as  she 
had  sent  to  me  to  consult  me  upon  a  little  dilemma  she 
found  herself  in  ;  namely,  that  she  had  only  intended 
asking  Mrs.  W.  Knox  for  a  special  Friday,  and  that  she 
came  every  Friday,  and  brought  two  daughters  with  her, 
to  her  great  annoyance.  It  is  evident  there  has  been  some 
mistake  in  the  card,  and  I  advised  her  (as  the  only  way 
to  rectify  it  civilly)  to  send  another  card  for  one  night, 
which  would  shew  her  she  was  not  expected  every  one. 
She  is  in  a  grand  fuss  about  it,  and  I  am  doubtful  whether 
she  will  take  any  step  for  fear  of  offending. 

"  Feb.  8th. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  a  party  at  Lady 
Salisbury's.  Prince  Homburg  was  there.  He  is  really 
a  very  good-humored  man.  There  is  nothing  talked  of 
but  the  Duke  of  Clarence  having  been  refused  by  the 
Princess  of  Denmark,  and  having  proposed  since  for 
Miss  Wykeham,1  who  has  accepted  him.  I  believe  there 
is  no  doubt  of  the  truth  of  this,  but  it  is  not  thought  that 
they  will  be  allowed  to  marry. 

"  We  have  been  busy  arranging  draperies  for  our 
Court  dresses  to-morrow. 

"  Feb.  2jth. — We  went  to  the  Drawing-room  yesterday. 
It  was  not  as  full  as  was  expected,  but  people  contrived 
to  crowd  the  rooms  sufficiently,  and  I  really  should  have 
been  squeezed  to  a  mummy  but  for  a  very  civil  man  who 
protected  me  to  the  best  of  his  abilities.  I  did  not  know 
him.  He  had  large  moustaches,  with  '  Niagara  '  and 
other  words  on  his  helmet. 

1  The  Greville  Memoirs  state  of  William  IV  :  "He  wanted  to 
marry  Miss  Wykeham,  a  half-crazy  woman  of  large  fortune,  on  whom 
he  afterwards  conferred  a  Peerage.  George  IV,  I  believe,  put  a  spoke 
in  that  wheel,  fortunately  for  the  Duke  as  well  as  for  the  country." 
She  was  Sophia,  only  daughter,  by  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  W.  Marsh, 
his  first  wife,  of  William  Richard  Wykeham,  of  Swalcliffe  Park.  She 
inherited  Swalcliffe  and  Thame  Park  in  Oxfordshire,  was  created 
Baroness  Wenman  June  3rd,  1834,  and  died  unmarried  August  9th, 
1870. 


3i2    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1818 

"  I  hope  if  I  meet  him  out  of  uniform  I  shall  recognise 
him,  as  he  was  particularly  kind,  both  to  Fanny  and  me. 
They  talk  of  the  Queen's  being  in  bad  health,  but  I  think 
she  looked  remarkably  gay.  Princess  Elizabeth  seems 
quite  rajeunie  by  the  prospect  of  matrimony.  She  talked, 
of  course,  to  me  about  the  Queen  of  Wurtemburg  and  told 
me  how  delighted  she  was  to  see  me. 

"  I  am  most  agreeably  surprised  by  Fanny's  being  very 
much  admired  this  year.  It  is  the  fashion  to  think  her 
very  handsome.    I  hope  people  won't  change  their  minds. 

"  March  yd. — I  went  to  my  sister's  to  play  at  Loo. 

"  We  visited  Mrs.  War  re  ;  General  Grenville  had  just 
been  there,  and  told  her  the  Duke  of  Clarence  had  told 
him  the  day  before  that  Miss  Wykeham  and  he  did  not 
intend  to  marry  until  they  could  do  it  legally,  and  have 
the  consent  of  Parliament,  before  whom  he  means  to 
bring  it.  There  is  a  fine,  flaming  paragraph  in  the  British 
Press,  puffing  her  in  a  most  absurd  way.  It  will  be  very 
disgraceful  to  permit  him  to  marry  her.  Her  mother 
was  a  kitchen  maid.  I  think  if  he  comes  to  be  King,  such 
a  marriage  would  justify  a  rebellion. 

"  March  $th. — I  went  with  Fanny  to  Almack's.  The 
Duke  of  Sussex  and  Prince  Homburg  were  there.  A 
shocking  thing  has  happened  in  the  Athol  family.  Lord 
Charles,1  the  second  son,  a  young  man  of  about  nineteen 
years,  has  absconded,  and  no  one  can  tell  what  has  be- 
come of  him.  He  ran  off  a  few  years  ago  from  Harrow  in 
a  fit  of  insanity,  and  has  often  since  been  deranged.  He 
has  now  a  tutor,  and  there  were  people  stationed  in  the 
hall  to  watch  that  he  should  not  go  off  (as  his  mind  seemed 
bent  upon  going  to  America).  He,  however,  managed  to 
get  out  of  the  window  in  the  night,  and  was  not  missed 
until  the  morning.  The  poor  Duchess  is  in  a  dreadful 
state.  He  is  her  only  child,  and  she  idolizes  him.  Lord 
Tullibardine,2  who  is  the  Duke's  eldest  son,  has  long 

1  Lord  Charles  Murray  was  the  only  son  of  the  4th  Duke  of  Athole 
by  his  second  marriage  with  the  widow  of  Lord  Macleod.  Lord  Charles 
was  born  in  1799,  and  died  in  August,  1824. 

2  Afterwards  5th  Duke  of  Athole.  He  was  born  June  26th,  1778, 
and  died  unmarried  September  14th,  1846. 


i8i8]  THE  DANDY-KILLER  313 

been  shut  in  a  mad  house.  What  are  rank  and  riches 
with  such  misfortunes  ! 

"  Mr.  Mayler  (known  by  the  name  of  the  '  Dandy 
Killer/  from  having  been  the  cause  of  driving  Beau 
Brummel  out  of  England)  fell  off  his  horse  while  hunt- 
ing two  days  ago,  and  was  killed  on  the  spot. 

"  March  6th. — I  hear  the  Regent  said  (upon  hearing 
that  the  Duke  of  Clarence  had  assured  people  that  he 
should  not  shew  any  displeasure,  when  King,  at  those 
who  opposed  his  match),  '  So,  William,  I  hear  you  won't 
let  Frederick  *  or  me  reign.'  The  match  is  certainly 
quite  off.  Neither  the  Regent  nor  Ministers  would  hear 
of  it. 

"  There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  mischief  done  by  the 
tremendous  storm  on  Wednesday.  A  cook  to  a  family 
in  Somerset  was  killed  by  a  wall  falling  in,  and  other 
servants  hurt  who  were  sitting  with  her  in  the  kitchen. 
A  stack  of  chimneys  at  Arthur's  was  blown  down.  It 
penetrated  through  to  a  room  under,  where  a  party  of 
gentlemen  were  at  dinner,  but  they  escaped  unhurt. 

"  March  Sth. — Mr.  C.  arrived  in  town,  and  he  and  I 
dined  with  Mr.  Yorke.  Lord  Hardwicke  and  Lord  Cale- 
don  were  there,  also  Sir  Thomas  and  Lady  Williams,  and 
Mr.  Barrow.2  Mr.  Barrow  is  a  very  clever  man,  and  has 
published  books  besides  writing  things  in  the  quarterly 
reviews.  He  told  me  some  extraordinary  discoveries  that 
have  lately  been  made.  One  is  of  a  cedar  ship  which  has 
been  dug  out,  about  ten  miles  from  the  Cape,  and  a  hun- 
dred yards  above  the  level  of  the  sea.  The  discovery  was 
made  when  digging  for  coals.  There  are  many  surmises 
with  regard  to  this  same  ship.  One  is,  that  it  was  one  of 
King  Solomon's  going  to  Shittim;  others,  Noah's  Ark, 
which  had  floated  there  ;  in  short,  everyone  has  a  serious 

1  Frederick,  Duke  of  York  and  Albany,  second  son  of  King  George 
III.     He  died  in  September,  1827. 

2  Sir  John  Barrow,  1st  Baronet,  born  1764,  so  created  1835.  He 
was  a  distinguished  author  and  traveller,  and  for  many  years  filled 
the  office  of  Second  Secretary  of  the  Admiralty.  He  married  1798 
Anna  Maria,  only  daughter  of  Peter  John  Triiter,  of  the  Cape  of 
Good  Hope,  member  of  the  Court  of  Justice.     Sir  John  died  in  1848. 


314    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1818 

or  a  ridiculous  surmise,  but  the  fact  is,  such  a  ship  has 
been  found,  but  what  is  very  provoking,  they  are  ex- 
tracting it  by  pulling  it  to  pieces  instead  of  trenching 
round  and  getting  it  out  whole. 

"Another  discovery  is  of  a  river  in  New  Holland  (?). 
A  party  travelled  up  and  came  to  a  part  which  was  very 
wide  and  navigable.  They  stopped  there,  built  a  sort 
of  vessel,  and  killed  and  salted  some  kangeroos,  and  then 
embarked  about  seven  or  eight  in  number  on  a  voyage 
of  discovery.    They  have  not  yet  returned. 

■'  I  hear  the  Queen  was  so  shocked  when  she  heard  of 
the  Duke  of  Clarence's  intention  of  marrying  Miss  Wyke- 
ham,  that  she  covered  her  face  with  her  handkerchief, 
and  remained  in  such  a  state  that  they  were  quite 
frightened  for  her.  It  is  now  reported  that  the  Duke 
of  Clarence  has  sent  to  propose  for  a  Princess  of  Hesse. 

"  Everyone  says  that  the  future  Duchess  of  Cambridge 
is  charming.  She  is  called  by  the  flattering  appelation 
of  '  The  Pearl  of  Princesses.'  Princess  Elizabeth  is,  I 
hear,  the  happiest  of  mortals.  She  says  the  more  she  sees 
of  Prince  Homburg,  the  more  she  likes  him,  and  that 
she  considers  herself  the  most  fortunate  woman  in  the 
world  in  having  engaged  his  affections. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  March  16th. — I  have  sent  out  invita- 
tions for  a  dance  on  the  27th  and  am  as  nervous  as  possible 
about  it.  I  am  very  glad  to  be  quiet  here  for  a  little  while. 
The  weather  is  delightful. 

"  March  31st. — We  dined  with  my  sister  on  Friday,  and 
returned  early  to  prepare  for  my  ball,  which  went  off  most 
famously.  They  danced  quadrilles,  and  though  I  had 
nearly  150  people,  there  never  was  a  crowd.  Refresh- 
ments in  the  room  below,  and  an  excellent  standing 
supper.  Everybody  was  in  good  humour,  and  the  Com- 
pany select,  and,  as  the  '  Morning  Post '  says  :  *  Com- 
posed of  the  most  distinguished  personages,  the  most 
fashionable  youths  of  both  sexes.'  There  is  a  fine  long 
puff  in  the  '  Morning  Post '  about  it.  Fanny  would  not 
dance  all  night,  as  she  did  not  think  it  right  at  home  to 
take  up  the  room  of  others  ;    however,  she  danced  six 


i8i8]  A  VERY  YOUNG  COUPLE  315 

quadrilles.  The  dancing  was  kept  up  with  the  greatest 
spirit  till  between  three  and  four. 

"  April  1st. — Fanny  and  I  went  last  night  to  Lady 
Mansfield's  at  an  assembly.  I  got  nothing  but  compli- 
ments about  my  ball.  I  am  almost  tired  of  the  subject. 
I  took  John  and  Frances  yesterday  to  take  leave  of  my 
Mother,  and  they  set  off  early  in  the  coach  with  Mr.  and 
Miss  Hope  for  Dover.  Poor  little  souls  !  I  trust  in  God 
they  will  perform  their  long  journey  well. 

"  April  yth. — I  had  a  visit  yesterday  morning  from  the 
Due  and  Duchesse  de  San  Carlos.  They  told  me  their 
daughter  is  going  to  be  married  to  a  young  man  of 
eighteen,  and  she  is  but  fourteen — a  pretty  couple  !  " 


CHAPTER    XXIV 

Lord  Weymouth  and  Fanny  Calvert — Engagement  of  the  Duke 
of  Clarence — Sir  Humphry  Davy — Lady  Anson's  ball — 
The  Duke  of  Holstein  and  his  son — Illness  and  death  of 
Lady  Althorp — Birth  of  Mary  Knox — Death  of  Queen 
Charlotte — A  lady's  maid's  letters — The  Pavilion  again — 
Burglars  at  Hunsdon  —  Princess  Victoria  is  born  —  The 
Persian  Ambassador  —  Mr.  Brand  becomes  Lord  Dacre  — 
Description  of  Mr.  Lamb — The  Bury  fair — The  Duchesse 
de  San  Carlos'  ball — A  menacing  mob. 

"  1818.     April  10th. 

LAST  night  we  went  to  a  ball  at  Lady  Grey 
Egerton's.1  She  has  a  fine  house  in  Grafton 
Street,  but  it  was  too  full  and  too  hot  for 
J  dancing.  There  was  a  fine  supper,  which  is 
now  not  a  usual  thing.  Mr.  Foley  amused  me 
by  telling  me  that  Lord  Weymouth  2  told  him  that  it  is 
reported  that  he  is  to  be  married  to  Fanny  !  Perhaps  that 
is  why  he  did  not  ask  her  to  dance  at  the  last  Almack's. 
It  is  very  tiresome  that  a  young  man  cannot  dance  often 
with  a  girl  without  people's  thinking  of  matrimony. 

"  April  15th. — The  Ministers  were  beaten  yesterday. 
They  wanted  to  get  a  great  addition  of  income  for  the 
Duke  of  Clarence,  to  enable  him  to  marry  the  Princess  of 
Hesse-Meiningen,  and  this  no  doubt,  was  to  include  the 
other  princes.  Parliament  offered  £6000  per  annum  for 
the  Duke  of  Clarence,  in  case  he  married,  but  Lord  Castle- 

1  The  Rev.  Sir  Philip  Egerton  married  1804  Rebecca,  youngest 
daughter  of  the  late  Josiah  Du  Pre  of  Wilton  Park,  Bucks.  She  died 
1870,  aged  ninety. 

2  Thomas,  Viscount  Weymouth,  eldest  son  of  the  2nd  Marquess 
of  Bath,  was  born  1796,  married  1820  Harriet,  daughter  of  Thomas 
Robbins,  Esq.,  and  d.s.p.  1837. 

316 


i8i8]  CARLTON  HOUSE  317 

reagh1  said  he  could  not  marry  under  £10,000,  so  I  suppose 
the  poor  little  man  must  give  up  his  bride.  £6000  per 
annum  was  voted  to  the  Duke  of  Cambridge,  but  not  a 
penny  would  they  give  Cumberland.  They  voted,  how- 
ever, £6000  to  the  Duchess  in  case  she  survived  him,  and 
spoke  most  highly  of  her.  I  hear  the  Regent  is  very 
angry  with  the  Ministers  for  the  way  in  which  they  have 
managed  their  business. 

"  April  igth. — I  went  last  night  to  a  Loo  party  at  my 
sister's  and  heard  there  that  after  all  the  Duke  of  Clar- 
rence  is  to  be  married.  He  condescends  to  accept  £6000, 
as  he  can  get  no  more." 

Mrs.  Calvert  mentions  meeting  Sir  Humphry  and  Lady 
Davy  2  at  dinner  shortly  afterwards,  and  adds  : 

"  Mr.  C.  and  I  are  invited  to  a  dress  party  at  Carlton 
House  to-night  to  meet  the  Queen.  Poor  Fanny  is  not 
asked,  which  I  am  so  sorry  for." 

She  describes  the  entertainment  as 

"  a  most  brilliant  assembly.  The  Queen  and  all  the 
princesses  were  there.  They  were  all  very  civil,  but  I 
don't  think  the  Regent  has  quite  his  old  cordial  way.  I 
talked  two  or  three  times  to  the  Princesses  and  sent  a 
message  to  the  Queen  of  Wurtemburg  by  the  Duchess  of 
Hesse-Homburg.  We  went  at  ten  and  got  home  between 
two  and  three.  I  was  a  good  deal  tired,  having  stood 
all  the  time. 

"  May  1st. — Went  to  a  most  disagreeable  squeeze  at 
Lady  Anson's,3  in  St.  James'  Square.  She  told  me  she 
had  asked  1300  people,  and  I  really  believe  they  all  came." 

1  Robert,  2nd  Marquess  of  Londonderry,  an  eminent  statesman, 
well  known  as  Lord  Castlereagh,  born  1769,  died  1822. 

2  Sir  Humphry  Davy,  the  inventor  of  the  safety  lamp,  a  celebrated 
chemist  and  natural  philosopher,  born  December,  1778,  died  at  Geneva 
1829,  "  not  only  one  of  the  greatest,  but  one  of  the  most  benevolent 
of  men." 

3  Anne,  second  daughter  of  Thomas  Coke,  Esq.,  of  Holkham, 
Norfolk,  married  1794  Thomas  Anson,  Esq.,  who  was  created  Viscount 
Anson  1806.  Creevey  wrote  of  her  :  "  Lady  Anson  is  as  good  as  ever 
she  can  be." 


318    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

Another  daughter  was  born  to  Sir  James  and  Lady 
Stronge,  who  were  still  at  Geneva.  Her  godfathers  were 
Prince  Paul  of  Mecklenburg,1  and  the  Duke  of  Holstein,2 
and  she. was  christened  Pauline,3  after  the  Prince. 

At  Lady  Grantham's  fancy  ball  Fanny  Calvert  looked 
very  handsome  in  a  Polish  dress  of  pink  and  silver  and 
sable.  She  wore  a  Lancer's  cap  of  pink  satin  and  a  plume 
of  feathers,  and  was  adorned  with  other  borrowed  plumes 
in  the  shape  of  emeralds  and  diamonds  belonging  to  her 
Aunt  and  Mrs.  Thomas  Knox.  Lord  Weymouth  returned 
to  his  allegiance  and  asked  her  to  dance,  but  evidently  the 
acquaintance  never  ripened  into  a  warmer  feeling,  for 
Miss  Calvert  died  unmarried. 

"  May  15th. — Fanny  and  I  went  last  night  to  music 
at  the  Duchess  of  Montrose's.4  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of 
Cumberland  5  were  there.  I  think  her  very  plain.  We 
then  went  to  Gloucester  House.  The  Duchess  6  is  really 
very  pleasing  ;  she  talked  for  a  long  time  to  me.  There 
were  1700  people  asked,  and  the  crowd  was  horrible. 

1  Prince  Paul  of  Mecklenburg-Schwerin  was  born  September  15  th, 
1800.  He  was  the  eldest  son  of  the  Hereditary  Grand  Duke  Frederick 
Louis,  who  died  November  29th,  18 19.  He  succeeded  his  grand- 
father as  Grand  Duke,  and  married  Princess  Alexandra  of  Prussia, 
daughter  of  William  III,  King  of  Prussia,  and  died  March  7th,  1842. 

2  Christian  Augustus,  Duke  of  Schleswig-Holstein,  was  born  July 
19th,  1798.  He  was  the  eldest  son  of  Frederick  Christian,  Duke  of 
Schleswig-Holstein,  and  his  wife  Louise,  daughter  of  Christian  VII, 
King  of  Denmark.  He  married  September  18th,  1820,  Louise  Sophia, 
daughter  of  Christian  Conrad,  Count  of  Daneskjold-Samsoe.  He  was 
father  of  Frederick,  the  late  Duke  of  Schleswig-Holstein  (father  of  the 
present  Kaiserin),  and  of  Prince  Christian,  who  married  Princess  Helena 
of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland. 

3  Pauline,  daughter  of  Sir  James  Stronge,  married  1842  Captain 
William  McClintock  Bunbury  of  Lisnavagh,  Co.  Carlow,  and  was 
mother  of  the  present  Lord  Rathdonnell.     She  died  in  1876. 

4  James,  3rd  Duke  of  Montrose,  married,  secondly,  1790  Caroline 
Maria,  daughter  of  George,  4th  Duke  of  Manchester.     She  died  1847. 

5  Ernest  Augustus,  Duke  of  Cumberland,  fourth  son  of  King 
George  III,  married  18 15  Princess  Frederica  of  Mecklenburg-Strelitz, 
who  died  1841. 

8  Princess  Mary,  fourth  daughter  of  George  III,  born  1776,  married 
1816  her  cousin,  the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  and  d.s.p.  1857. 


H.S.H.    DUKE   CHRISTIAN    AUGUSTUS   OF   SCHLESWIG-HOLSTEIN, 


i8i8]  ILLNESS  OF  LADY  ALTHORP  319 

We  did  not  get  to  Lady  Pole's  ball  till  nearly  three  in 
the  morning.  I  ate  my  supper  while  Fanny  danced  a 
quadrille.  A  day  or  two  later  we  dined  at  four  and  I 
took  the  children  to  Astley's.     They  were  all  in  raptures. 

"  May  26th. — My  beloved  Willy  (God  preserve  him  !) 
went  to-day  to  Harrow.  I  was  much  shocked  yesterday 
at  seeing  in  the  papers  that  poor  Lady  Campbell  (Mr. 
Burgoyne's  daughter)  has  died  at  Florence  after  giving 
birth  to  a  daughter.  The  Queen  is  better — indeed  quite 
recovered. 

"  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Cambridge  x  are  arrived. 
I  hear  she  is  pretty — like  Lady  Jane  Paget  2  whom, 
however,  I  don't  admire,  though  she  is  extravagantly 
admired  by  everyone  else.  I  have  a  great  aversion  to 
those  Pagets  ;  they  give  themselves  such  airs  and  are  so 
haughty.  I  paid  Lady  Althorp  a  visit  to-day.  Poor  soul ! 
she  expects  every  hour  to  be  taken  ill.  She  has  promised 
to  make  Lord  Althorp  write  me  a  line  when  the  event 
takes  place. 

"  We  have  very  hot  summer  weather,  and  spent  a  good 
deal  of  time  yesterday  in  Kensington  Gardens,  where  we 
met  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Cambridge  walking.  She 
seems  very  pretty.  At  Mrs.  Scott  Murray's  3  ball  the 
report  was  that  the  Queen  was  so  ill  she  was  not  expected 
to  live  through  the  night. 

"  June  8th. — My  servant  has  just  come  back  from 
enquiring  after  Lady  Althorp.  The  child  is  dead — poor 
thing,  I  feared  as  much,  for  it  was  so  protracted  a  business. 
I  trust  she  will  do  well  herself.  I  will  drive  there  in  the 
course  of  the  day  for  I  really  am  very  anxious  about  her. 

"  June  gth. — Lady  Althorp  better,  but  she  has  been  in 
great  danger.  Parliament  is  to  be  prorogued  to-day  by 
the  Regent ;  the  first  time  it  has  been  prorogued  from 
the  throne  since  the  time  of  Charles  II. 

1  H.R.H.  the  Duke  of  Cambridge  married  1818  Princess  Augusta 
of  Hesse-Cassel. 

2  Lady  Jane  Paget,  daughter  of  the  1st  Marquess  of  Anglesey, 
was  born  1798,  and  died  1876,  Marchioness  of  Conyngham. 

8  Wife  of  Mr.  Scott  Murray  of  Danesfield,  Bucks.  She  was  for 
many  years  a  popular  London  hostess. 


320    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

"  June  10th. — Poor  Lady  Althorp  has  been  at  the 
point  of  death,  but  I  hear  is  better. 

"  June  nth. — Lady  Althorp  very  bad  indeed — high 
fever  and  delirious.  Dearest  Felix  is  going  with  Lord 
Balgonie  1  on  a  tour  into  Greece  and  Constantinople.  I 
wish  he  had  not  chosen  such  hot  weather. 

"  June  12th. — Just  after  I  wrote  yesterday  my  mother 
came  and  told  me  of  poor  Lady  Althorp's  death.  She  had 
recovered  her  senses  and  the  physicians  thought  her 
better,  and  had  just  left  her.  Then  Mr.  Tupper  came  in, 
and  found  her  eating  a  little  bread  and  milk.  He  felt  her 
pulse  and  found  it  so  weak  that,  feeling  much  alarmed, 
he  went  to  Lord  Althorp  and  told  him  he  could  not 
conceal  from  him  that,  unless  they  could  get  some  brandy 
down  her  throat,  she  had  not  many  minutes  to  live. 
They  accordingly  mixed  some  in  arrowroot  that  it  might 
not  burn  her  throat.  But  they  only  got  a  very  few  drops 
down,  for  she,  rinding  it  difficult  to  swallow,  showed 
some  impatience  at  being  made  to  take  it,  and  very  soon 
expired.  They  say  that  Princess  Charlotte  died  in 
exactly  the  same  way.  I  hear  Lord  Althorp  is  distracted,2 
and  how  I  pity  her  unfortunate  mother  !  She  really  was 
the  best  daughter  that  ever  lived. 

"  June  13th.  —  I  took  the  little  girls  to  the  Soho 
Bazaar  3  to-day,  and  they  were  very  much  delighted 
with  it. 

"  June  ijth. — Mr.  C.  came  to  us  in  the  evening,  and  is 
now  gone  back  to  Hertford.  The  Election  is  to-day,  so 
I  suppose  he  is  M.P.  again  ere  this.  The  Duke  of  Cumber- 
land told  Limerick  that  he  intends  leaving  England  soon 

1  David,  Baron  Balgonie,  the  eldest  son  of  Lord  Leven  and  Mel- 
ville, was  born  1785,  and  entered  the  Royal  Navy.  He  succeeded 
his  father  as  8  th  and  7th  Earl  1820,  was  a  retired  rear-admiral,  and 
died  i860. 

2  It  is  said  that  he  never  recovered  her  loss. 

3  In  Soho  Square.  Most  middle-aged  people  will  recollect  it  as 
one  of  the  best  of  the  London  bazaars  ;  it  was  the  first  to  be  opened, 
and  probably  the  last  to  be  closed.  It  was  established  by  Mr.  John 
Trotter  (to  whom  the  ground  belonged),  in  aid  of  the  widows  and 
orphans  of  those  who  had  fallen  in  the  long  wars  against  Napoleon. 
Queen  Charlotte  opened  it  in  18 16. 


i8i8]  VAUXHALL  GARDENS  321 

for  ever — for  he  thinks  he  has  been  very  ill-used.     I  am 
sure  he  will  be  no  loss  to  the  country. 

"  June  18th. — Fanny  has  just  had  a  letter  from  Isa- 
bella, who  has  taken  to  dancing,  and  has  laid  down  a  plan 
of  tours  that  will  take  at  least  four  years.  Mr.  C.'s  election 
went  off  quite  well  and  quietly  on  Wednesday.  The 
nomination  for  the  County  was  on  Friday,  and  he  has 
proposed  Mr.  Brand. 

"  June  24th. — The  Regent  has  a  ball  to-night — it 
begins  by  a  children's  ball,  and  ends  with  a  grown  one. 
The  good-for-nothing  man  has  not  asked  us  !  Charles 
Calvert  is  to  have  my  barouche  on  Tuesday  to  go  in  the 
Procession  (that  being  the  day  of  the  Election)  and  he 
is  to  have  six  horses  ornamented  with  blue  ribbons. 
Colonel  Davies  has  got  his  election  for  Worcester,  and  Mr. 
Waithman  is  elected  for  the  City. 

"  There  is  a  great  piece  of  work  at  Westminster,  where 
I  believe  Sir  Francis  Burdett  and  Sir  Samuel  Romilly  * 
will  be  elected.  Poor  Sir  Murray  Maxwell,  the  unpopular 
candidate,  has  been  shamefully  used  by  the  mob.  I 
believe  he  is  keeping  his  bed  at  this  moment  in  conse- 
quence of  the  blows  he  received. 

"  June  28th. — We  went  on  Friday  evening  at  ten  to 
Mrs.  Robinson's  and  proceeded  with  a  party  to  Vauxhall 
at  eleven.  I  took  Mr.  Stuart  and  Mr.  Vincent  in  the 
carriage  with  me,  and  they  gave  us  their  arms.  It  is 
certainly  a  very  brilliant  spectacle,  but  the  fireworks  not 
equal  to  Tivoli.  We  returned  about  two  to  Mrs.  Robin- 
son's, where  we  supped  and  then  went  home.  The 
weather  is  very  hot. 

"  July  1st. — Yesterday  morning  Mr.  C,  Fanny,  and  I 
went  to  the  Committee  Room  at  the  Bricklayer's  Arms 
to  see  Charles's  Procession.  We,  our  horses,  and  servants 
were  adorned  with  light  blue  ribbon — Charles's  colors. 
The  procession  really  was  very  gay.    Edmond  rode  in  it, 

1  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  a  great  statesman  and  philanthropist, 
member  of  a  French  Protestant  family,  which  had  taken  refuge  in 
England  after  the  Revocation  of  the  Edict  of  Nantes.  He  was  born 
in  1757,  elected  for  Westminster  in  1818,  and  died  the  same  year. 

Y 


322    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

looking  very  handsome.  Charles  had  my  barouche,  with 
six  white  horses,  adorned  with  blue  ribbons.  He  was  very 
much  applauded  and  hurra'd. 

"  The  Princess  of  Saxe  Meiningen  (the  Duchess  of 
Clarence  elect)  and  her  Mother  are  arrived  in  England, 
and  so  are  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Kent.  I  do  not  know 
what  the  latter  is  like,  but  I  hear  that  the  Duke  of 
Clarence's  bride  is  very  ugly,  fair,  with  red  eyes.  The 
Duke  and  Duchess  of  Homburg  are  gone.  I  am  told  that 
he  already  behaves  ill  to  her,  but  the  lady  would  have  a 
husband. 

"  July  26th. — Mary  Knox  l  has  produced  a  daughter.2 
She  was  so  quick  in  her  time  that  whilst  Thomas  ran  for 
the  Doctor  and  a  servant  for  the  Nurse,  little  Miss  popped 
into  the  world,  with  only  the  maid  in  the  room. 

"  The  accounts  of  Lord  Northland  are  very  bad — 
poor  man.    I  think  we  shall  soon  hear  of  his  death." 

Mr.  Calvert  had  a  farm  at  Childerley  near  Cambridge, 
and  during  tfyis  very  hot  summer  his  wife  and  children 
spent  some  weeks  there,  and  made  friends  with  some  of 
the  neighbours. 

"  Aug.  23rd. — Fanny,  the  boys,  and  I  went  to  General 
Needham's,3  about  ten  miles  off,  and  dined  and  slept  there. 
We  also  called  at  Gog  Magog,  Lord  Francis  Osborne's  4  and 
spent  a  couple  of  hours  there  and  ate  our  luncheon.  Lady 
Francis  is  too  ill  to  see  anyone,  but  we  walked  about  with 
him.  Lord  Northland  has  got  quite  well — recovered  his 
strength  and  appetite — he  is  indeed  a  wonderful  old  man. 

"  Sept.  20th.  Upper  Grosvenor  Street. — The  newsmen 
have  been  crying  about  that  the  Queen  died  at  half  past 
three  this  morning,  but  I  hear  it  is  not  true.  What  an 
indecent  thing  to  do  !  " 

1  The  wife  of  Thomas  Knox,  afterwards  2nd  Earl  of  Ranfurly. 

2  Afterwards  Lady  Mary  Reade. 

3  The  Hon.  Francis  Jack  Needham,  afterwards  12th  Viscount 
Kilmorey,  was  born  1748,  and  was  Colonel  of  the  86th  Foot.  He 
succeeded  his  brother  18 18,  and  in  1822  was  created  Viscount  Newry 
and  Morne,  and  Earl  of  Kilmorey.     He  died  1832. 

4  Second  son  of  Francis,  5th  Duke  of  Leeds. 


THOMAS    KNOX, 


1ST    VISCOUNT    NORTHLAND. 
Fro  vi  a  picture  by  Hickcy 


1729-1818 


i8i8]  A  JOYFUL  SURPRISE  323 

Felix  Calvert  had  for  some  time  been  with  his  regiment 
at  Corfu,  but  obtained  leave  of  absence  early  in  the 
autumn  and,  after  staying  a  short  time  with  his  sister 
and  her  husband  at  Geneva,  he  returned  to  England. 
"  Oh  !  joyful  surprise,"  writes  his  mother  ecstatically, 
when  the  door  opened  at  Hunsdon  and  he  unexpectedly 
walked  in. 

"  October  18th. — He  has  brought  me  from  Con- 
stantinople a  purse,  a  necklace  and  a  quantity  of  otto 
of  roses,  and  from  Milan  two  little  bronze  figures  of 
Bonaparte.  Everything  that  shows  I  am  in  his  thoughts 
is  most  gratifying  to  me.  Sir  James  has  sent  me  a  picture 
of  Isabella  in  the  Bernese  costume — beautiful,  and  the 
very  image  of  her.  Our  weather  is  glorious.  Fanny 
rides  her  grey  pony,  and  I  drive  the  donkey  chaise  and 
take  the  little  ones  with  me.  Last  Thursday  we  dined 
in  Grosvenor  Street.  Lord  and  Lady  Darnley  and  their 
two  daughters  dined  there.  They  saw  a  good  deal  of 
Isabella  at  Geneva. 

"  Oct.  26th. — She  and  Sir  James  are  gone  to  spend  the 
winter  in  Italy,  and  have  left  their  four  children  at  Geneva 
under  the  care  of  Isabella's  German  mistress. 

"  Felix  has  got  a  Lieutenant-Colonelcy  in  the  72nd 
Regiment,  which  is  at  the  Cape,  but  the  second  Lieut.- 
Colonel  is  to  be  reduced  next  month,  so  he  will  go  on  half 
pay.  I  am  very  glad  he  has  been  able  to  manage  this, 
as  he  was  very  anxious  about  it.  He  is  everything  that 
is  pleasant  to  me ;  so  kind  and  affectionate  and  atten- 
tive. His  manners  are  much  improved  and  softened, 
and  he  is  such  lively,  animated  company  that  he  is  quite 
delightful. 

"  Nov.  25th. — Sir  James  and  Lady  dined  here. 

He  is  a  remarkably  agreeable,  clever  man,  Milady 
somewhat  vulgar,  and  Miss  a  little  ugly,  frightened 
thing.  Yesterday  he  got  the  news  of  the  Queen's  death. 
Having  no  gentlemen  at  home  the  last  day  or  two  we  have 
read  a  novel  out  loud  of  an  evening  ;  a  very  stupid  one, 


324    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

and  prolix,  but  we  have  extracted  mirth  out  of  both 
circumstances,  and  laughed  very  heartily. 

"  December  4th. — The  Queen  was  buried  yesterday. 
Miss  Dash  wood  is  going  to  marry  Sir  Jacob  Astley,1  an 
immense  match  for  her.  He  is  just  of  age,  she  two  years 
older.  Lord  Kilmorey  is  dead,  so  his  brother  General 
Needham  is  now  Lord  Kilmorey,  and  comes  into  an 
immense  fortune." 

Mrs.  Calvert  was  a  person  of  active  habits.  On  Decem- 
ber 31st  she  writes  : 

"  I  have  walked  a  great  deal  with  the  gentlemen,  our 
weather  being  delightful,  but  I  was  a  good  deal  knocked 
up  by  walking  eight  miles  a  day  or  two  ago,  so  I  have 
given  it  up.  We  play  short  whist  and  cribbage  every 
night." 

It  was  about  this  time  that  Lady  Stronge,  who  was 
then  in  Naples,  sent  home  for  her  mother's  amusement 
a  copy  of  two  letters  actually  written  by  an  English  maid 
there,  and  dropped  in  the  street,  where  they  were  picked 
up  by  her  mistress.  The  punctuation  and  spelling  are 
remarkable. 

"  Naples, 
"  December,  1818. 

"  My  Dear  Mr.  Shaw, 

"  As  I  promised  you  some  account  of  our  journey  i 
would  not  wish  to  be  worse  than  my  word,  more  particular 
to  you  who  have  alleways  been  so  constant  to  me  as  i 
may  say,  but  I  should  first  tell  you  I  was  much  dis- 
apointed  in  this  same  Naples  having  allways  heard  of 
the  beauty  of  forrin  parts  where  I  must  needs  own  i  have 
seen  nothing  to  compair  to  the  grate  hall  of  Barkshire 

1  Sir  Jacob  Astley,  ancestor  of  the  present  Lord  Hastings,  was 
born  1797,  and  married  1819  Georgiana,  second  daughter  of  Sir  Henry 
Watkin  Dashwood,  Bart.  He  had  the  abeyance  of  the  ancient  Barony 
of  Hastings  terminated  in  his  favour  May  18th,  1841.  This  title  had 
been  abeyant  for  450  years,  the  last  holder  being  the  Earl  of  Pembroke, 
who  d.s.p.  December  30th,  1391. 


i8i8]  A  LADY'S  MAID'S  LETTERS  325 

were  i  lived  with  my  first  Lady.  However  I  have  seen  a 
great  deal  of  the  world  which  is  what  one  lives  for  having 
met  with  an  overturn  in  a  sad  dangerous  place,  and  had 
all  like  to  have  been  tumbled  into  a  grate  river  I  think 
they  call  the  Rone.  The  people  there  were  very  kind 
to  us  and  behaved  very  unlike  those  here  which  seem  to  me 
as  far  as  I  can  say  as  heathenish  a  set  as  ever  I  met 
with  they  make  nothing  of  picking  and  steeling  before 
one  can  turn  one's  back,  and  my  mistress  as  conscien- 
tious and  virtuous  a  Lady  as  ever  broke  bread  tell  of  a 
grate  Marquis  who  stole  nine  silver  spoons  one  ball  nite, 
for  the  matter  of  that  the  English  themselves  seem  to 
run  stark  mad  as  soon  as  they  sniff  this  air,  going  to  the 
Operas  on  every  nite  of  the  week — and  one  of  the  Quallity 
who  has  been  expelled  from  her  husband's  bosom  walks 
about  at  open  day  with  her  Concubine  on  her  arm,  if 
she  had  belonged  to  these  parts  i  could  not  have  much 
wonder'd  but  for  English  vice  to  hold  up  her  head  in 
another  country  is  what  i  can't  understand.  She  passed 
Mistress  and  our  Miss  so  close  as  to  touch  her  Pelise  a  new 
one  i  had  just  been  making,  i  am  astonished  at  her 
awdacity  i  must  not  forget  to  mention  i  saw  the  most 
beautifullest  court  dress  the  other  day  besides  Virgils 
tomb  and  a  part  of  a  temple  dedicate  to  Jupiter  Seraph 
whom  i  take  to  have  been  one  of  the  Roman  Hemperors. 
Mistress  have  promised  I  should  go  and  see  Pompey 
before  we  go  back,  but  i  own  i  am  rather  disinclined  to 
such  a  party,  since  a  jirman  Courear  in  a  service  here 
told  me  of  two  Gentlemen  who  were  stripped  to  the  skin 
by  Ruffians  at  broad  day  and  a  recurrence  of  the  like 
would  not  be  pleasant  to  me  as  i  should  not  think  it 
seemly  to  visit  the  'tiquities  in  my  buff,  being  only  a 
servant  i  should  not  have  told  you  all  this  only  as  we 
have  been  keeping  of  company  five  years  come  next  Lady 
Day  i  remain  your  loving  friend  E.W. 

"  P.S.  I  dont  sign  as  i  hear  the  King  sometimes  opens 
our  letters,  he  makes  butter  two,  but  we  don't  get  it,  i 
dont  know  why  for  certainly  she  has  as  good  a  rite  as 
the  rest." 


326    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1818 

"  My  dear  Sister, 

"  As  their  is  no  making  one's  soul  in  these  heathen- 
ish parts,  there  being  neither  church  nor  Stepel  nor 
Parson  to  pray  for  us  who  dont  worship  these  images  i 
take  up  my  pen  to  wish  you  well  hoping  you  and  your 
good  man  employs  yourselves  in  praying  for  those  who 
travel  by  sea  and  by  land  ;  i  am  sure  they  were  wanting 
upon  account  of  the  storm  for  all  on  board  was  frightened 
except  Mistress  who  has  been  so  long  used  to  the  bottom 
of  the  sea  that  she  was  not  a  whit  the  worse,  not  so  our 
imperial  and  trunk  poor  souls !  for  they  both  got  so 
drenched  they  never  recovered  it  that  is  the  clothes. 
Mistress  took  it  easy  but  being  elderly  and  passed  such 
things  i  could  not  so  much  wonder  tho'  i  must  say  there's 
exemption  nowadays  betwixt  old  and  young,  but  as  to 
Miss  her  not  taking  on  for  her  loss  which  may  lose  her 
a  husband  in  the  end  shews  her  to  be  rather  harden'd. 
I  cant  say  I  think  much  of  Mount  Vesufius  tho  I  perused 
it  when  it  was  vomitting  fire  and  flame  i  was  not  much 
edified  by  the  same.  Saint  Bartholemey  holding  his 
skin  was  a  much  pleasanter  sight  to  me  who  had  lately 
seen  so  many  naked  statutes,  he  looked  so  modest  and 
clever  in  comparison.  Mistress  have  parted  with  our 
servant  who  as  he  spoke  my  mother's  tongue  i  am  sorry 
for  otherwise  he  was  nothing  better  than  a  jobbernowl 
to  be  sure  for  an  Irishman  to  write  a  book  which  was  the 
occasion  it  seems  he  came  to  be  hired  is  something  passed 
endurance  how  could  a  feller  born  out  of  England  pre- 
sume to  have  education  a  walet  (valet)  in  a  grate  place 
here  i  visits  told  me  he  herd  his  master  say  before  lords 
and  barrownites  that  England  was  ruinated  and  parley- 
ment  must  do  something  immediately  for  my  part  i 
think  nothing  but  a  tax  upon  servants  can  save  the  nation, 
if  people  who  eat  of  fat  in  the  land  were  made  to  hire 
Natives  instead  of  Frenchmen  and  tallions  (Italians) 
they'd  here  no  more  of  rebelions  and  ryots,  talking  of 
Rufians  nothing  but  our  religion  sav'd  us  they  were  all 
robb'd  which  would  have  been  a  great  misfortune  as  i 


i8i9]  THE  PAVILION  AGAIN  327 

had  a  matter  of  twenty  pound  besides  dollars  and  other 
outlandish  coins." 

(N.B.    The  rest  of  this  letter  was  lost.) 

"  1819.  Jan.  10th. — Yesterday  was  our  thirtieth  wed- 
ding day.  God  Almighty  bless  and  preserve  my  beloved 
husband  to  me  ! 

"  Jan.  14th.  Brighton. — Fanny  and  I  have  come  here 
to  see  my  dearest  sister,  and  I  am  grieved  to  find  her  far 
from  well.  She  does  not  dine  with  us,  but  sits  with  us 
of  an  evening  and  likes  to  see  us  play  at  cards. 

"  January. — They  are  doing  a  great  deal  to  the 
Pavilion  ;  it  will  perhaps  be  handsome  when  finished, 
but  at  present  its  appearance  is  extraordinary  indeed. 

"  Jan.  24th. — Last  Sunday  we  were  invited  to  the 
Pavilion,  and  went.  The  Regent  was  very  civil — but 
none  of  his  former  cordiality.  As  usual  the  band  played 
beautifully,  and  Fanny  was  delighted  with  it.  The 
music  room,  which  is  a  very  fine  room,  and  the  whole 
when  finished  will  be  magnificent.  There  was  a  regular 
supper  in  the  gallery,  but  we  were  home  by  twelve.  The 
young  Queen  of  Wurtemburg  is  dead. 

"  Jan.  25th. — We  went  to  the  Pavilion  last  night ;  it 
was  much  in  the  style  of  last  Sunday's  party.  Fan  and  I 
stayed  to  supper.  Sir  B.  Bloomfield  told  me  that  the 
Regent  admires  Fanny  very  much,  and  had  been  remind- 
ing him  of  his  giving  her  a  ball  a  few  years  ago.  I  never 
knew  before  for  certain  that  it  was  given  for  her,  but  this 
accounts  for  the  Duke  of  Clarence  making  her  lead  off 
with  the  Prince  of  Orange. 

"  Jan.  26th. — Mary  Knox,  Fanny  and  I  took  a  walk 
yesterday,  in  spite  of  the  weather.  Our  petticoats  were 
so  blown  about  us  that  really  we  might  almost  as  well 
have  had  no  clothes  on.  However  black  draperies 
perhaps  conceal  rather  more  than  white  ones  would. 
Col.  Gibbs  and  his  sisters  came  in  the  evening  ;  we  sat  at 
our  work. 

"  Jan.  31st. — The  Duchess  of  Gloucester  arrived  last 
night  at  the  Pavilion  •    we  are  going  there  to-night. 


328    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1819 

"  Feb.  /\th. — We  found  the  Pavilion  pleasant  enough, 
Fan  and  I  stayed  to  supper.  The  Duchess  of  Gloucester 
shook  hands  most  cordially  with  me.  Her  manners  are 
very  pleasing,  but  she  is  grown  fat  and  has  a  redness  in 
her  face. 

"  March  21st. — Mr.  C.  and  Felix  went  on  Thursday  to 
the  Regent's  Levee.  He  received  them  very  coldly,  only 
making  a  bow  and  not  moving  his  lips.  Everyone  went 
in  deep  mourning  for  the  Queen  with  weepers.  The 
officers  were  made  to  wear  black  waistcoats,  breeches, 
and  stockings,  and  belts  and  scarfs  with  their  regimentals. 

"  April  2nd.  Hunsdon  House. — On  Monday  night  this 
house  was  broken  into  !  The  thieves  got  into  the  drawing 
room,  kitchen,  and  larder,  but  only  carried  off  the  silver 
candlesticks,  tray,  and  snuffers,  and  Mr.  C.'s  coat  (which 
were  in  the  drawing  room)  and  some  meat  and  butter 
out  of  the  larder.  We  suppose  they  must  have  been 
frightened,  and  decamped  in  a  hurry,  or  they  would  have 
taken  more.  It  has  annoyed  us  a  good  deal,  and  I  feel 
a  little  nervous  now  at  night. 

"  April  29th.  London. — We  went  at  night  to  a  chil- 
dren's ball  at  Lord  Grantham's.  Mary  and  Harriet  were 
the  happiest  of  the  happy,  and  danced  quadrilles  and 
country  dances  all  night,  Mary  with  Lord  Grantham's 
son  and  Lord  Grimston,1  and  Harriet  with  Lord  Stanley's  2 
son  and  one  of  Lord  Winchester's.3  Never  was  anything 
so  admired  as  Harriet,  not  for  her  beauty,  but  for  her 
dancing,  her  manners,  cleverness,  and  engaging  ways. 
Lord  Grantham  told  Limerick  the  next  day  that  she  was 
the  delight  of  the  ball  room. 

"  May  4th. — I  borrowed  23  Albermarle  Street,  and  gave 
a  most  excellent  ball,  with  numbers  of  fine  people,  in 
spite  of  the  wettest  night  I  ever  saw — everybody  seemed 
pleased,  and  liked  it. 

1  James  Walter,  eldest  son  of  the  ist  Earl  of  Verulam.  He  was 
born  1809,  and  succeeded  his  father  1845. 

2  Edward  Smith,  Lord  Stanley,  born  1775,  succeeded  his  father 
1834  as  13th  Earl  of  Derby. 

3  Charles  Ingoldsby  Paulet,  born  1765,  succeeded  his  father  as 
13th  Marquess  of  Winchester  1800. 


i8i9]  BIRTH  OF  PRINCESS  VICTORIA  329 

"  May  13th. — We  went  to  Almack's  last  night.  Fanny 
danced  with  Mr.  Petre,  Sir  James  Hope,  Lord  Graham  x 
and  Lord  Clifton. 

"  May  22nd. — We  had  a  visit  yesterday  from  the 
Persian  Ambassador — the  same  who  used  to  admire 
Isabella  so  much.  He  sat  here  a  good  while,  and  was 
very  merry.  He  took  a  great  deal  of  notice  of  the  little 
girls,  especially  Harriet.  He  made  her  sit  on  the  sofa 
with  him,  and  took  up  a  book  and  made  her  read  to  him. 
He  seemed  quite  astonished  at  hearing  her  read,  which  I 
suppose  Persian  girls  can't  do.  Fanny  Pery  is  going  to 
marry  Sir  Henry  Calder  2 ;  he  is  of  a  good  family  but  the 
fortune  is  small. 

"  May  28th. — Went  at  night  to  Lady  Ouseley's  3 
where  Lady  Ashbrook4  played  beautifully  on  the  harp. 
We  are  going  presently  to  write  our  names  for  the  Duchess 
of  Kent,  who  has  produced  a  Princess.5 

"  June  $th. — Went  yesterday  to  an  Assembly  at  Lady 
Stafford's,6  and  then  to  a  ball  at  Mrs.  Scott  Murray's. 
Yesterday,  when  out  driving  we  met  the  procession  of 
mail  coaches  being  the  4th  of  June. 

"  June  12th. — On  Monday  Lady  Darnley  gave  a  fancy 
ball  at  the  Hanover  Square  Rooms.  Fanny  was  dressed 
as  a  Hudson's  Bay  Indian  ;  Edmond  in  a  blue  and 
silver  jacket. 

"15  Wimpole  Street,  June  15/A. — Fanny  and  I  went  at 
night  to  an  assembly  at  Lady  Hertford's  where  we  met 
the  Regent  and  all  the  fine  world. 

1  Lord  Graham,  afterwards  4th  Duke  of  Montrose,  born  1799, 
succeeded  his  father  1836. 

2  Sir  Henry  Roddam  Calder  was  born  1790,  and  married  18 19 
Lady  Frances  Pery,  fourth  daughter  of  the  1st  Earl  of  Limerick.  She 
died  1855. 

3  The  Right  Hon.  Sir  Gore  Ouseley,  g.c.h.,  f.r.s.,  born  1770,  was 
created  a  Baronet  1808,  married  1806  Harriott,  daughter  of  John 
Whitelocke,  Esq.     He  was  in  18 10  appointed  Ambassador  to  Persia. 

4  Henry,  4th  Viscount  Ashbrook,  married  1812  Emily,  daughter 
of  Sir  Thomas  Metcalfe. 

6  Afterwards  her  late  Majesty  Queen  Victoria. 

6  George  Granville,  2nd  Marquess  of  Stafford,  was  created  Duke 
of  Sutherland  1833.  He  married  1785  Elizabeth,  Countess  of  Suther- 
land and  Baroness  of  Strathnaver  in  her  own  right.    She  died  1 8  39. 


330    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1819 

"  June  16th. — Later  hours  seem  to  be  coming  into 
fashion.  We  set  out  at  ten  o'clock  for  Mrs.  Thompson's 
Concert,  which,  however,  had  not  begun  when  we  went 
on  at  half  past  eleven  to  Mrs.  Taylor's  ball.  Afterwards 
we  went  to  the  Persian  Ambassador's  where  there  was  a 
fine  assembly.  We  went  upstairs  to  see  the  fair  Circassian 
who  lives  with  him.  Two  black  eunuchs  were  perched  on 
the  stairs  in  order  to  prevent  any  male  creature  from 
going  up.  She  really  is  not  worth  seeing.  Her  eyes  are 
fine,  but  her  complexion  and  figure  bad.  She  looked  like 
a  French  maid,  in  a  morning  cap,  and  with  a  dark  shawl 
rolled  round  her.  She  seemed  frightened  and  humble.  I 
believe  she  is  only  a  slave,  but  so  much  has  been  said 
about  her  that  everyone's  curiosity  is  excited. 

"  Sunday,  June  2.0th. — We  read  prayers  at  home  ;  had 
a  visit  from  Baron  Langsdorff,  who  is  just  come  back  from 
Germany.  He  has  seen  a  great  deal  of  the  Grand  Duchess 
of  Hesse  Homburg  and  says  she  seems  very  happy.  She 
desired  him  to  tell  anyone  in  England  who  enquired  after 
her  that  she  is  '  the  happiest  woman  in  the  world.'  * 

"  June  2jth. — Read  prayers  and  a  sermon.  Dined 
and  spent  the  evening  at  Lord  Limerick's.  Including 
Fan  and  me  and  the  ladies  of  the  family  there  were  ten 
petticoats  and  only  five  men,  which  made  a  very  dull 
dinner.  Lord  and  Lady  Westmeath  have  parted  ; 
temper  being  the  cause,  and  that  was  a  violent  love 
match ! 

"  June  28th. — Felix  and  John  Knox  dined  with  us. 
We  went  at  night  for  a  short  time  to  my  mother's,  and 
then  to  a  fancy  ball  at  Almack's.  Fanny  was  dressed 
in  pink  and  silver,  and  looked  very  well.  She  danced  with 
Sir  James  Hope,  Mr.  Petre,  and  Lord  Weymouth.  It 
was  very  crowded  ;  there  was  a  great  mixture  of  company 
and  many  odd  figures. 

"  July  $th. — We  went  at  night  to  Mrs.  Robinson's  ball. 

1  Lord  Kilmorey  and  his  daughters,  when  passing  through  Hom- 
burg, called  on  the  Grand  Duchess,  who  asked  them  to  dinner.  It 
was  a  midday  meal,  and  they  wore  their  travelling  dresses,  while 
their  hostess  appeared  en  grande  toilette,  for  which  she  apologised, 
saying  that  she  did  it  "to  please  the  Germans." 


i8i9]  WORTHING  331 

Prince  Leopold  was  there.  He  looks  very  much  older. 
Nothing  is  talked  of  but  the  Comet,1  which  has  appeared 
within  the  last  few  nights,  but  I  have  not  seen  it  yet. 

"  July  6th. — Dined  at  four  and  we  all  went  to  Astley's, 
and  afterwards  to  Vauxhall.  James  (now  Colonel  Knox) 
went  with  us.  We  stayed  till  one  o'clock  ;  it  was  a  most 
beautiful  night,  but  there  was  no  appearance  of  the  Comet. 

"  July  13th. — Went  in  the  morning  with  Fanny  to 
the  House  of  Lords  to  hear  the  Regent's  speech  and  see 
Parliament  prorogued — for  once  it  is  a  pretty  sight. 

"  July  15th. — I  got  a  letter  from  Dover  from  Isabella 
to  say  they  had  landed  and  would  be  in  town  at  six.  We 
waited  dinner  until  eight,  but  they  did  not  arrive  before 
ten.  They  had  hired  the  stage,  having  sold  their  carriages 
at  Calais.  Isabella  looks  very  well,  but  extremely  tanned, 
and  I  do  not  think  her  way  of  dressing  becomes  her.  She 
is  nervous,  and  sometimes  in  high,  sometimes  in  low 
spirits.  Sir  James  and  the  children  all  look  remarkably 
well.  Pauline,  the  youngest,  is  a  good  humoured,  fat 
stump,  with  pretty  black  ej'es,  and  I  dare  say  she  will 
have  a  pretty  face.  The  Regent  gives  a  great  fancy  ball 
to-night  and  has  asked  all  London  but  us  ;  why,  I  cannot 
think,  but  I  shall  not  forgive  him  in  a  hurry. 

"  Worthing,  July  18th. — We  got  up  between  five  and 
six  yesterday  morning,  stopped  at  Dorking  for  dinner, 
and  got  here  at  five.  I  am  not  in  love  with  the  place. 
Our  house  is  very  small,  and  I  pay  seven  guineas  a  week 
for  it — a  great  deal  more  than  it  is  worth.  We  are  close 
to  the  sea — indeed,  closer  than  I  like.  For  I  think  a 
spring  tide  might  carry  us  away.  We  dine  at  three  with 
the  children ;  drink  tea  at  seven,  walk  till  nine,  read, 
work  and  sup,  and  to  bed  at  eleven.  This  is  the  life  I 
mean  to  lead. 

"  August  yd. — A  letter  today  from  Isabella,  enclosing 
a  tiny  bit  of  Fanny  Pery's  wedding  cake.  She  was 
married  yesterday  to  Sir  Harry  Calder. 

"  August  25th. — We  went,  little  girls  and  all,  to  the 

1  Probably  Encke's  Comet,  which  was  first  discovered  by  M.  Pons, 
November  26th,  18 18. 


332    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1819 

Play  last  night.  I  took  the  stage  box.  Really  it  is  a 
beautiful  little  theatre,  and  we  were  much  amused.  It 
was  *  The  Marriage  of  Figaro,'  '  Where  shall  we  dine  ?  ' 
and  '  Bombastes  Furioso.' 

"  August  29th. — We  leave  this  tomorrow,  to  our  great 
joy.  I  had  a  letter  from  Felix.  Poor  fellow  !  his  gig- 
horse  has  fallen  down  and  cut  his  knees  so  dreadfully 
that  he  is  good  for  nothing.  He  gave  150  guineas  for  him 
the  other  day.  He  is  very  unlucky  about  horses  ;  I  am 
quite  vexed. 

"  Sept.  14th.  Hunsdon  House. — We  had  a  Turtle 
Feast.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Feilde  (a  pretty  little  doll)  Mr. 
Money  Wigram  (a  handsome  young  man)  Mr.  Boldero,  and 
Colonel  Johnson  all  dined  here. 

"  October  6th. — I  heard  to-day  from  Mrs.  Robinson, 
saying  that  she  is  sorry  she  cannot  receive  us  on  the  12th, 
(on  which  day  we  were  to  have  gone  to  her  for  the  Bury 
Fair).  Her  son  Henry  has  eloped  from  his  tutor,  and 
they  are  gone  to  London  in  a  great  hurry.  Lady  Dacre  x 
is  dead,  so  Mr.  Brand  is  now  Lord  Dacre,2  and  there  is  a 
vacancy  for  the  county. 

"  October  yth. — Mr.  Lamb  3  means  to  stand  for  the 
county. 

"  October  nth. — Fanny  and  I  drove  to  breakfast  at 
Bury  and  engaged  lodgings  for  the  Fair  time.  I  am  to 
pay  eight  guineas  for  them  ;  a  great  sum,  but  I  could 
not  bear  to  disappoint  Fanny,  who  had  set  her  heart  on 
going. 

"  Bury,  October  15th. — We  arrived  at  our  lodgings  at 

1  She  was  the  Hon.  Gertrude  Roper,  succeeded  her  brother,  18th 
Lord  Dacre  1794,  and  married  1771  Thomas  Brand,  Esq.,  of  The  Hoo, 
Herts. 

2  Mr.  Thomas  Brand  was  the  eldest  son  of  Lady  Dacre,  of  Kimpton 
Hoo,  Luton,  and  was  born  in  1777.  He  began  life  as  a  sailor,  but 
gave  up  his  naval  career  before  long,  and  was  eventually  called  to  the 
Bar.  He  must  have  been  a  good  walker  as  well  as  a  devoted  son,  for 
he  went  down  on  foot  every  Saturday  to  the  Hoo  to  spend  Sunday 
with  his  mother,  returning  on  Monday  to  London  (about  30  miles). 
The  heavy  debts  of  honour  left  by  his  father  were  all  paid  off  by  him 
before  he  allowed  himself  to  live  at  the  Hoo.  He  died  March  21st, 
18  5 1.     Lady  Dacre,  after  his  death,  lived  in  Chesterfield  Street. 

3  Afterwards  Viscount  Melbourne. 


i8i9]  THE  "ANGEL"  AT  BURY  333 

about  three,  and  sallied  out  walking  directly.  We  went 
about  six  to  the  Ordinary  at  the  '  Angel/  where  all  the 
world  dined.  We  parted  to  dress  and  then  went  to  the 
Ball,  which  was  very  crowded,  but  we  did  not  know  a 
great  many.  Fanny  danced  two  quadrilles,  one  with  a 
Mr.  Throckmorton  and  the  other  with  Captain  Rowley. 

"  October  16th. — We  went  this  morning  with  Sir  William 
Rowley  x  to  see  the  gaol ;  it  is  a  most  excellent  construc- 
tion, and  Mr.  C.  was  so  delighted  with  it  that  he  means 
to  try  and  have  one  like  it  at  Hertford.  Afterwards  we 
drove  over  to  Ickworth,  Lord  Bristol's.2  It  is  a  monu- 
ment of  the  late  Lord's  eccentricity,  for  it  is  built  quite 
round,  and  looks  like  a  very  large  watch  tower,  not  quite 
finished.  There  are  foundations  for  two  wings,  but  I 
suppose  the  expense  will  prevent  its  ever  being  done. 

"  We  went  at  night  to  the  Play  in  company  with  the 
Rowleys,  and  sat  in  the  Pit,  part  of  which  was  divided 
off  and  cost  the  same  as  the  boxes.  We  were  much  amused 
with  the  farce  '  X.Y.Z.' 

"  Sunday,  Oct.  jyth. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  church,  and 
had  a  charity  sermon  at  St.  Mary's — a  very  good  one, 
and  all  the  Bury  world  was  there.  We  dined  at  the 
ordinary,  and  had  a  very  pleasant  dinner.  Lady  Rous,3 
whom  I  think  very  pleasant,  proposed  that  we  should 
stay  and  drink  tea  together  at  the  Inn,  and  we  did  not 
part  till  near  eleven.  The  young  people  were  very  merry 
and  played  at  '  Cross  Questions,'  *  Commands,'  and 
another  game. 

"  October  18th. — Fanny  and  I  sauntered  about  the  Fair, 
and  went  with  the  Rowleys  to  a  play  in  the  booths — 
such  a  thing  !  We  had  a  great  deal  of  laughing.  We 
were  the  only  people  in  the  boxes,  and  there  were  a 

1  Sir  William  Rowley  of  Tendring  Hall,  Suffolk,  was  born  1761, 
and  succeeded  his  father  as  2nd  Baronet  1790. 

2  Frederick  William,  5th  Earl  of  Bristol,  born  1769,  created  Mar- 
quess of  Bristol  and  Earl  Jermyn  1826,  died  1859. 

3  Sir  John  Rous,  M.P.  for  the  county  of  Suffolk  from  1780  to  1796, 
was  raised  to  the  Peerage  1796  as  Baron  Rous  of  Dennington,  and 
created  1821  Earl  of  Stradbroke.  He  married  1788  Miss  Frances 
Warter  Wilson  of  Bilboa,  Co.  Limerick. 


334    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1819 

parcel  of  school-boys  in  the  pit.  Mrs.  Robinson  writes 
to  say  that  she  will  send  Louisa  and  Henrietta  to  me  for 
the  ball  to-night,  so  I  have  engaged  beds  for  them  at  the 
Inn. 

14  Tendring  Hall,1  October  19th. — We  went  to  the  Ball 
at  ten  ;  Fanny  danced  with  Captain  Rous  and  Captain 
Rowley,  and  this  morning  we  came  here.  This  is  a 
comfortable  house,  and  there  is  nobody  but  ourselves. 

"  October  20th. — Mr.  Robinson  2  is  made  a  Baronet,  and 
Mr.  Tew,  Sir  James's  uncle,  is  dead. 

"  October  22nd. — I  drove  with  Lady  Rowley  this 
morning  to  see  an  old  friend  of  mine,  Mrs.  Philip  Yorke, 
who  lives  in  this  neighbourhood.  Weather  quite  wintry, 
and  there  has  been  a  heavy  fall  of  snow. 

"  October  30th. — Poor  Lady  Dunalley  3  is  dead,  also 
Mr.  Douglas,  Lord  Glenbervie's  son.  He  married  Miss 
Wrightson  quite  a  short  time  ago. 

"  Nov.  2nd. — We  went  to  the  Hertford  Ball ;  came 
home  before  supper.  Lady  Salisbury,  the  Cowpers,  and 
Lambs  were  there. 

"  Nov.  3rd. — The  Corporation  of  Hertford  dined  with 
us,  also  Mr.  Lamb,  who  slept  here.  The  Corporation 
played  at  whist,  and  seemed  to  like  their  party.  Mr. 
Lamb  will  come  in  for  the  county  without  opposition. 
I  don't  much  like  him  ;  he  has  no  manners,  but  is  hand- 
some, and  I  believe,  clever. 

"  Nov.  10th. — My  mother  was  not  very  well  to-day,  and 
though  her  illness  seemed  slight  we  took  fright  and  sent 
for  Mr.  Chilver.  He  strongly  advised  us  to  get  her  to  settle 
in  town  before  the  winter  is  much  more  advanced,  as  at 
her  age  everything  is  alarming,  so  far  from  advice. 

"  Nov.  nth. — I  told  my  Mother  to-day  that  we  intend 

1  Tendring  Hall,  Stoke-by-Nayland,  Suffolk,  now  the  seat  of  Sir 
Joshua  Rowley,  5th  Bart. 

2  John  Friend,  born  1754,  Archdeacon  of  Armagh,  assumed  the 
surname  of  "Robinson"  by  sign  manual  1793,  and  was  created  a 
Baronet  18 19.  He  married  1786  Mary  Anne,  second  daughter  of 
James  Spencer  of  Rathangan,  Co.  Kildare. 

3  Henry,  2nd  Baron  Dunalley,  married  1802  Maria,  only  daughter 
of  Dominick  Trant,  Esq.,  of  Dunkettle.    She  died  18 19. 


i8i9]  A  MENACING  MOB  335 

going  to  town  for  the  meeting  of  Parliament  on  the  23rd 
upon  which  she  said  she  would  go  also,  as  she  should  not 
like  to  be  here  alone.  I  am  glad  we  have  managed  so 
that  it  should  be  her  own  proposal,  as  we  do  not  wish  to 
alarm  her  or  make  her  think  we  had  any  fear  of  her  being 
here  alone. 

"  Nov.  22nd.  Upper  Wimpole  Street. — Fanny  and  I 
went  up  in  the  coach  and  four  to  London  without  stopping, 
except  for  hay  and  water.  We  were  only  three  hours  and 
twenty  minutes  from  door  to  door.  We  called  on  Isa- 
bella in  Grafton  Street ;  she  seems  remarkably  well,  and 
in  high  spirits.  She  walked  up  to  Wimpole  Street  with  us, 
and  then  back  again,  so  she  must  be  very  strong. 

"  November  2yd. — Mr.  C.  and  Felix  arrived  from 
Whitton.  Parliament  met,  and  we  went  to  the  House  of 
Lords  to  hear  the  Regent  make  his  speech.  It  was  very 
full,  and  we  were  well  amused.  The  Duke  of  Clarence 
was  there,  and  quite  glad  to  see  me,  and  we  had  a  great 
deal  of  conversation. 

"  Nov.  25th. — Mr.  C.  was  not  at  home  till  six  this 
morning.  He  voted  in  the  minority.  The  majority  for 
the  Ministers  was  381 — minority  150.  We  dined  with  my 
mother  who  is,  thank  God,  very  well.  I  rejoice  that  she 
is  in  town,  for  the  weather  is  very  severe. 

"  Dec.  14th. — I  have  been  nursing  a  heavy  cold  all 
day,  for  we  are  going  to  a  Ball  at  the  Duchesse  de  San 
Carlos' — a  great  fete  to  celebrate  the  nuptials  of  the 
King  of  Spain.1 

'*  Dec.  16th. — At  eleven  o'clock  we  went  to  the  ball. 
The  house  was  brilliantly  illuminated,  and  such  a  mob 
gathered  round  we  could  hardly  get  in.  They  were  very 
noisy,  but  they  cheered  us ;  however  they  were  not  so 
kind  to  others,  but  hissed  and  hooted,  and  a  good  many 
were  frightened.  I  hear  Lady  Hertford  in  her  chair  was 
so  insulted  that  she  was  terry fyed  and  so  was  the  Regent. 
Lavender  said  he  could  not  answer  for  the  consequences 
if  the  military  were  not  called  out,  so  the  Horse  Guards 

1  Ferdinand  VII  of  Spain,  restored  to  his  throne  1813.  He  married 
1819  Princess  Marie  Josephine  of  Saxony,  and  died  1833. 


336    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1819 

were  sent  for.  The  ball  was  magnificent,  and  a  most 
splendid  supper.  The  Regent,  Dukes  of  Clarence  and 
Kent  and  their  Duchesses,  the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  and 
Prince  Leopold  were  there.  The  Regent  was  more 
cordial  in  his  manner  than  he  has  been  for  some  time. 
The  Duke  of  Clarence  presented  me  to  the  Duchess  ;  she 
is  very  thin  and  very  fair,  and  almost  pretty  ;  she  seems 
very  pleasing  and  civil.  The  Duchess  of  Kent  looks 
good-humoured,  but  plain.  Fanny  danced  two  quad- 
rilles with  M.  de  Poligny  and  Mr.  Waldegrave  ;  we  got 
home  about  three. 

"  Dec.  24th.  Hunsdon  House. — Fanny  and  I  left 
Town  to-day.  All  my  eight  children  are  assembled  here, 
which  is  a  great  delight  to  me. 

"  Xmas  Day. — We  all  went  to  Church  to-day,  and  I 
had  the  happiness  of  seeing  my  four  boys  in  the  pew  with 
their  father,  and  my  four  girls  with  me.  God  Almighty 
preserve  them,  and  my  dear  mother  also." 


CHAPTER   XXV 

House-hunting — Death  of  the  Duke  of  Kent  and  of  George  III — 
Proclamation  of  George  IV — The  Due  de  Berri's  assassina- 
tion— Cato  Street  Conspiracy — Flesh-coloured  stockings — 
Birth  of  Thomas  Edmond  Knox — The  Duke  of  Holstein  in 
England — Exeter  Change — Queen  Caroline — Alderman  Wood 
— George  IV's  first  Drawing-room — A  mutiny  and  a  riot — 
William  Wilberforce — Hatfield  House — The  fair  at  Hert- 
ford :  a  charity  bazaar — Trial  of  Queen  Caroline — Coke  of 
Norfolk  —  Lady  Conyngham  at  the  Pavilion  —  Death  of 
Lady  Pery — Coronation  Day — Death  of  Queen  Caroline — 
John  Knox  is  married — Mrs.  Calvert  at  Bath — Marriage  of 
Mr.  Coke  and  Lady  Anne  Keppel — The  Primate  of  Ireland — 
Tynan  Abbey — A  typical  Irish  woman. 

1820. 

IT  appears  that  the  house  in  Upper  Wimpole  Street 
was  not  much  to  Mrs.  Calvert's  taste,  for  in  January 
we  find  her  "  busy  house  hunting  all  day,  in  spite 
of  the  weather."    Eventually  the  family  settled  in 
No.  9  Grafton  Street,  next  door  to  Lady  Stronge.1 

Mrs.  Calvert  begins  her  Journal  as  usual  by  wishing 
her  husband  and  children  many  happy  New  Years, 

"  and  may  we  all  correct  what  is  wrong  in  us.  I  cannot  say 
that  I  have  at  all  improved  this  year.  I  can  only  hope  to 
do  so  ;  I  will  not  say  endeavor  as  I  have  so  miserably 
failed." 

To  judge  from  contemporary  diaries,  a  habit  of  intro- 
spection, more  or  less  morbid,  seems  to  have  been  a  good 
deal  the  fashion  in  those  days,  and  one  cannot  help  wonder- 
ing whether  on  the  whole  people  were  the  better  for  it. 

1  15  Wimpole  Street  was  finally  disposed  of  in  November,  1822. 
z  337 


338    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1820 

To  dig  a  plant  up  by  the  roots  is  not  the  surest  way  to  im- 
prove its  health  ! 

"  Jan.  25th. — Mr.  Calvert  is  gone  to  the  Hertford  Ball. 
I  was  surprised  that  it  was  not  put  off,  as  the  Duke  of 
Kent  *  is  dead.  He  died  at  Sidmouth  of  an  inflammation 
in  his  lungs. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  Jan.  30th. — The  King  is  very  ill. 
I  fear  he  will  not  live  long,  and  then  there  will  be  another 
dissolution  of  Parliament.  John  Knox's  servant  is  just 
come — he  says  he  heard  at  the  Coach  Office  that  the  King 
died  yesterday  evening. 

"  Jan.  31s/. — John  and  James  Knox  arrived  from  Lon- 
don. They  heard  George  IV  proclaimed  before  they  left 
town.  We  heard  the  tower  guns  here.  George  III  died 
between  seven  and  eight  on  Saturday  evening.  The 
present  King  is  not  well  himself. 

"  Feb.  yd. — Mr.  Calvert  writes  that  Parliament  is  to 
be  dissolved  at  Easter.  The  King  has  been  dangerously 
ill  but  is  recovering.  Sir  Matthew  Tierney  2  they  say 
saved  his  life  by  taking  80  ounces  of  blood  from  him,  and 
50  ounces  more  two  or  three  days  later. 

"  Feb.  4th. — This  is  my  fifty-second  birthday.  Alas  ! 
what  an  old  woman  I  am  getting,  without  feeling  I  am  in 
the  least  better  or  at  all  more  reconciled  to  the  departure 
of  my  youth  and  good  looks.  The  King  is  better,  and  I 
believe  considered  out  of  danger  for  the  present. 

"  Feb.  16th. — The  King  was  buried  to-day,  so  all  the 
shops  are  shut.  There  have  been  great  dissensions 
between  his  present  Majesty  and  his  Ministers.  He  wants 
a  divorce  from  the  Queen,  but  they  say  that  although 
her  conduct  abroad  has  been  and  is  most  infamous  yet 
actual  guilt,  so  as  to  justify  a  divorce,  cannot  be  proved. 
Sir  John  Leach  did  persuade  the  King  that  he  could  get 

1  H.R.H.  Edward,  Duke  of  Kent  and  Strathearn,  fourth  son  of 
King  George  III,  was  born  November  2nd,  1767,  and  died  January 
23rd,  1820. 

2  Sir  Matthew  John  Tierney  was  Physician-in-Ordinary  to  George  IV 
and  Physician  to  the  Household  at  Brighton.  Sir  Matthew  was 
created  a  Baronet  in  1818,  which  title  became  extinct  on  the  death  of 
the  3rd  Baronet  in  i860. 


i82o]  CATO  STREET  CONSPIRACY  339 

one,  but  his  ministers  oppose  the  attempt  and  the  King 
has  been  obliged  to  yield.    Sorely  against  his  will. 

"  Feb.  ijth. — Parliament  met  to-day.  It  is  to  be  dis- 
solved on  the  1st  of  March  and  the  new  Parliament  will 
meet  on  the  25th  of  April. 

"  I  heard  rather  an  unfeeling  story  to-day  of  my  friend 
the  Duke  of  Clarence. 

"  The  day  before  the  Duke  of  Kent's  funeral  he  said 
'  We  made  a  sad  bungling  business  of  the  Queen's  funeral, 
but  however  we  shall  have  a  rehearsal  to-morrow,  so  I 
hope  we  shall  manage  the  King's  better. 

"  A  most  shocking  event  has  happened  in  Paris.  The 
Due  de  Berri  has  been  assassinated  while  handing  his 
wife  into  her  carriage  after  the  Opera.  He  died  that 
night,  and  the  assassin  has  been  seized.  It  appears  to 
have  been  done  for  political  reasons  :  it  is  a  horrid  busi- 
ness. 

"  Feb.  20th. — It  snowed  all  the  morning  and  at  eleven 
o'clock  it  was  so  dark  that  I  could  not  see  to  read  in  my 
front  drawing-room.  Being  Sunday  we  read  prayers 
and  a  sermon  at  home. 

"  Feb.  24th,  Cato  Street  Conspiracy. — A  dreadful  thing 
occurred  last  night.  It  was  fortunate  that  the  ministers 
had  notice  of  what  was  intended,  a  plot  to  murder  them 
all  at  a  Cabinet  dinner  at  Lord  Harrowby's.  The  Bow 
Street  officers  went  to  Cato  Street x  where  the  murderers 
were  assembled.  They  had  a  bloody  fight,  and  one  of  the 
conspirators  (Smithers)  was  killed.  Then  the  Guards 
under  Captain  Fitz- Clarence  2  arrived  and  arrested  a 
good  many,  but  a  number  escaped.  Some  more  have  I 
hear  been  taken  to-day  and  people  talk  of  nothing  else. 
They  say  now  that  they  were  all  to  have  been  murthered 

1  The  Cato  Street  Conspiracy  consisted  of  a  gang  of  desperate 
men  headed  by  Arthur  Thistlewood,  who  assembled  in  Cato  Street, 
Edgware  Road,  and  proposed  the  assassination  of  the  Ministers  of 
the  Crown  at  a  Cabinet  dinner,  and  the  overthrow  of  the  Government. 
They  were  betrayed  by  one  of  their  number,  and  Thistlewood  and 
four  others  executed  as  traitors  May  ist,  1820. 

2  Eldest  illegitimate  son  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence,  afterwards 
William  IV.    He  was  created  Earl  of  Munster  on  June  4th,  1831. 


340    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1820 

at  the  Due  de  San  Carlos'  ball,  had  not  the  troops  arrived. 
These  are,  indeed,  awful  times  ! 

"  Feb.  25th. — I  visited  Isabella  in  her  new  house  1 
which  she  has  furnished  very  prettily. 

"  Feb.  26th. — Fan  and  I  dined  at  five,  and  went  at 
night  to  the  Play  to  see  the  Antiquary.  Lord  and  Lady 
Northland  had  got  Mr.  Coutt's  box  which  is  a  delightful 
comfortable  one. 

"  Feb.  29th. — Went  at  night  to  Play  at  Loo  at  Mrs. 
Champagne's. 

"  March  1st. — Went  to  Almack's,  most  miserably  thin  ; 
only  nine  dancing  men  in  the  room  I  Fanny  danced  with 
Mr.  Gunning  and  we  came  home  at  one. 

"  March  yd. — Dined  at  home.  Lord  and  Lady  North- 
land, the  Dowager  Lady  Stronge,  Baron  Langsdorff, 
George  Knox  &c  to  dinner.  In  the  evening  came  fourteen 
or  fifteen  people.  I  had  two  Loo  tables  and  the  young 
people  sat  and  laughed  and  talked  in  the  next  room. 

"  March  nth. — I  went  at  night  to  the  Opera  with  Mrs. 
Champagne  who  had  Lord  Anglesey's  2  box.  I  had  not 
been  to  it  for  eleven  years.  The  Opera  is  very  bad  :  Lord 
Wallscourt  3  and  Mr.  Waldegrave  stayed  a  good  while  in 
the  box.  Lord  Wallscourt  told  us  many  odd  stories  about 
the  fine  ladies  whom  he  laughs  at — amongst  others  of 
Lady  Worcester  4  who  he  says  wears  thin  flesh  coloured 
stockings,  so  as  to  show  her  blue  veins  which  are  so  pretty ! 

"  March  16th. — I  went  at  night  to  a  little  music  at 
Mrs.  Thompson's.  Jenny  Knox  has  had  a  son  5  and  is 
doing  very  well." 

The  birth  of  a  son  and  heir  to  Captain  Edmond  Knox, 
Lord  Northland's  second  son,  was  a  great  event  in  the 
family,  for  it  came  after  many  disappointments. 

1  No.  16  Dover  Street. 

2  Created  Marquess  of  Anglesey  after  Waterloo,  1815.  His  mother 
was  a  daughter  of  the  Very  Rev.  Arthur  Champagne,  Dean  of  Clon- 
macnoise. 

3  Joseph  Henry  Blake,  3rd  Baron  Wallscourt,  born  1797,  died  1849. 
*  She   was    Georgiana    Frederica,    daughter    of   the    Hon.    Henry 

FitzRoy.    Married  1814,  died  1821. 

5  Afterwards  General  Thomas  Edmond  Knox,  c.b. 


i82o]  EXETER  CHANGE  341 

"  March  24th. — My  sister  had  a  small  party.  We  went 
afterwards  to  Lady  Castlereagh's  where  there  was  all  the 
fine  world.  Princess  Esterhazy  was  there  and  I  saw  her 
for  the  first  time.  I  do  not  think  her  handsome,  but  she 
is  reckoned  very  fascinating.  I  believe  she  and  her 
husband  do  not  care  at  all  for  each  other. 

w  April  13th. — Fanny  and  I  went  at  night  to  a  very 
nice  little  dance  given  by  Isabella  to  the  Duke  of  Holstein, 
who  is  over  here  for  a  short  time.  Fanny  danced  the  first 
quadrille  with  the  Duke,  and  the  second  with  Comte  de 
Basse witz  who  is  here  with  him. 

"  April  14th. — The  Duke  of  Holstein  paid  me  a  long 
visit  this  morning,  also  the  Comte  de  Bassewitz  who  is 
a  very  pleasing  young  man,  with  a  great  look  of  our 
Royal  Family,  to  whom  he  is  nearly  related.1 

"April  2,2nd. — I  went  at  night  to  the  Opera  with  Fanny 
and  Isabella.  Count  Blucher  sat  in  our  box  most  of  the 
time  ;  he  is  a  delightful  young  man. 

"  April  24th. — I  had  a  large  dinner  party  and  an 
Assembly  of  150  people  in  the  evening.  Both  went  off 
very  well.  My  dinner  company  was  the  Duke  of  Holstein, 
Comtes  Blucher  and  de  Bassewitz,  Mrs.  and  Miss  Caul- 
field,  Sir  Robert  and  Lady  Macfarlane,  Sir  James,  Isabella 
and  Felix,  etc. 

"  April  2jth. — We  went  at  night  to  a  very  small  party 
at  Lady  Breadalbane's,  where  the  Duke  of  Holstein  and 
his  suite  had  dined — afterwards  to  a  dance  at  Lady 
Robinson's. 

"  April  2%ih. — Went  with  my  children  and  grand- 
children to  Exeter  Change  2  to  see  the  wild  beasts,  and 

1  This  is  a  mistake,  which  a  member  of  our  Royal  Family  has  been 
gracious  enough  to  correct  for  me.  Count  Bassewitz  was  in  no  way 
related  to  the  Royal  House  of  England. 

a  Exeter  Change  was  built  on  the  ruins  of  Exeter  House,  and  in 
the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth  century  contained  a  menagerie  of 
wild  beasts,  to  which  country  cousins  were  always  taken  on  their 
first  arrival  in  London  ;  hence  "  to  see  the  lions  "  passed  into  a  pro- 
verb. After  the  death  of  the  elephant  Chunee  in  1826  the  glory  of 
Exeter  Change  departed,  and  in  1830  it  was  entirely  taken  down. 
The  site,  which  runs  obliquely  from  Catherine  Street  to  Wellington 
Street,  Strand,  still  belongs  to  the  Cecil  family. 


342    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1820 

afterwards  to  consult  Alexander  the  oculist  about  my 
eyes,  which  are  bloodshot  and  uneasy.  He  ordered  me 
leeches  and  other  things. 

"  April  29th. — My  eyes  much  better  from  the  leeches 
etc. 

"  May  gth. — Gave  a  dance  here.  My  Company  were 
of  the  finest,  both  men  and  women.  Fanny  danced  with 
the  Duke  of  Holstein,  Mr.  Campbell,  Captain  Rowley, 
etc.  The  Duke  of  Sussex  1  was  here — everyone  seemed 
pleased. 

"  May  nth. — I  gave  another  dance  :  it  was  a  very  good 
one — rather  more  crowded  than  the  last.  The  Duke  of 
Gloucester  came  to  it.  Fanny  danced  with  Lord  Moles- 
worth,2  Lord  Harley,3  Mr.  Strutt,4  Lord  Erroll  and  Mr. 
Campbell. 

"  May  12th. — I  was  completely  worn  out  after  my 
ball ;  dined  and  spent  the  rest  of  the  day  at  home.  The 
Duke  of  Holstein  and  Bliicher  came  to  take  leave  of  us. 
They  leave  to-night  and  embark  at  Harwich  to  go  by 
long  sea  to  Hamburgh. 

"  May  16th. — Isabella  seems  very  well  to-day.  She 
dined  with  us  and  stayed  till  Fanny  and  I  went  to  music 
at  the  Duchess  of  Wellington's  where  there  were  many 
fine  people. 

"  May  2yd. — Dined  at  Sir  Charles  Rowley's  .  .  .  my 
darling  Will  was  confirmed  by  the  Bishop  of  London, 
God  bless  him  !  " 

Mrs.  Calvert  goes  on  to  describe  various  gaieties — 
"  a  most  disagreeable  ball  at  Lady  C.  Strutt 's  ;  5    an 

1  Augustus  Frederick,  Duke  of  Sussex,  the  6th  son  of  King  George 
III,  born  1773,  died  April,  1843. 

2  Richard  Pigott,  7th  Viscount  Molesworth,  born  1786,  died  un- 
married 1875. 

8  Edward,  Lord  Harley,  born  1820,  eldest  son  of  Edward,  5th  Earl 
of  Oxford  and  Earl  Mortimer,  he  died  in  the  lifetime  of  his  father  on 
January  1st,  1828,  unmarried. 

4  John  James  Strutt,  born  1796,  only  son  of  Colonel  Joseph  Holden 
Strutt,  M.P.  for  Maiden.  He  succeeded  his  mother  as  2nd  Lord  Ray- 
leigh,  on  her  death  September  12th,  1826. 

5  Lady  Charlotte  FitzGerald,  daughter  of  James,  1st  Duke  of 
Leinster,  was  created  Baroness  Rayleigh  July  18th,  1821. 


i82o]  QUEEN  CAROLINE  343 

Assembly  at  Lady  Derby's  (which  we  may  hope  was 
pleasanter)  ;  a  very  pleasant  ball  at  Lady  George  Sey- 
mour's who  lives  at  Knightsbridge  ;  a  very  pleasant 
musical  party  at  the  Duchess  of  Wellington's." 

Fanny's  partners  are  always  recorded,  and  one  feels 
that  this  may  have  caused  her  no  small  trepidation,  in 
case  they  should  not  always  be  exactly  those  of  which 
her  family  and  future  readers  of  the  Journal  would  ap- 
prove. But  more  important  matters  began  to  agitate 
society  at  this  time. 

"  June  5th. — Nothing  is  talked  of  but  the  arrival  of 
the  Queen.1  Her  affairs  are  brought  before  Parliament, 
and  no  one  knows  what  will  be  the  result.  She  is  at 
present  at  Alderman  Wood's  2  in  South  Audley  Street 
and  there  is  always  a  mob  before  the  doors,  and  people 
who  do  not  take  off  their  hats  are  pelted  !  There  have 
been  partial  illuminations." 

One  can  hardly  imagine  the  worry  and  vexation  caused 
by  this  one  misguided  woman  to  many  more  besides  King 
and  Ministers. 

"  June  yth. — The  House  of  Commons  have  deferred 
the  Queen's  business  until  Friday,  in  hopes  that  matters 
may  be  arranged  quietly,  but  there  seems  little  chance 
of  that.  In  the  meantime  the  town  is  in  a  constant 
ferment,  and  windows  are  broken  every  night. 

"  June  Sth. — We  dined  in  Grosvenor  Street  and  went 
at  night  to  a  ball  at  Mrs.  Beaumont's.  There  was  a  riot 
in  the  Square  in  the  course  of  the  night  and  the  Life 

1  Caroline  of  Brunswick,  wife  of  George  IV. 

a  Sir  Matthew  Wood  (i  768-1 843)  became  an  alderman  in  1807,  and 
as  Sheriff  of  London  and  Middlesex  performed  the  unpleasant  duty 
of  arresting  Sir  Francis  Burdett.  He  was  Lord  Mayor  of  London 
during  the  troublous  period  of  18 15-16,  and  during  his  second  year 
of  office  rescued  three  Irishmen  who  had  been  mistakenly  condemned 
to  execution.  He  was  one  of  the  chief  friends  and  supporters  of  Queen 
Caroline,  and  on  her  arrival  in  London  from  abroad  she  took  up  her 
abode  at  his  house,  77  South  Audley  Street. 


344    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1820 

Guards  called  out.  Windows  were  broken  —  a  great 
many  in  this  neighbourhood,  but  not  exactly  in  this 
street. 

"  June  gth. — The  debate  about  the  Queen  is  adjourned 
to  Monday,  as  she  has  sent  a  message  with  some  pro- 
posals to  Ministers.  She  has  moved  from  Alderman 
Wood's  to  Lady  Ann  Hamilton's  x  in  Portman  Street. 

"  Sunday,  June  nth. — Went  to  Vere  Street  Chapel : 
wretched  weather.  Isabella  has  had  very  bad  attacks 
of  spasms  and  saw  a  new  doctor  (Clarke)  who  ordered 
cold  water  to  be  thrown  on  her  whenever  they  attack 
her  ;  it  seems  so  far  to  lessen  them. 

"  June  14th. — Isabella  better,  but  her  doctor  has 
settled  to  bleed  her  to-morrow  in  the  neck  which  he  hopes 
may  stop  the  spasms. 

"June  i$th. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  Court;  the  Drawing- 
room  was  very  full,  but  as  hoops  are  abolished  it  was 
much  pleasanter  and  less  fatiguing.  We  were  all  pre- 
sented to  His  Majesty  and  had  a  kiss.  He  looked  well 
and  in  good  spirits,  whether  assumed  or  real  I  do  not 
know.  Princess  Augusta,2  the  Duchess  of  Gloucester  and 
Princess  Sophia  of  Gloucester  were  there  and  all  spoke 
very  kindly  to  me.  The  King  said  '  How  do  you  do, 
Mrs.  Calvert  ?  which  was  all  he  had  time  to  do  to  any- 
body. The  costumes  were  all  the  same  as  at  the  French 
Court  and  I  think  very  pretty.  Fanny  and  I  had  white 
net  gowns  prettily  trimmed  and  blue  gros  de  Naples 
trains  three  yards  and  a  quarter  long.  You  hold  them 
on  your  arm  until  you  get  into  the  room  to  the  King  and 
then  you  let  them  down.  Several  banks  have  broke  in 
Ireland,  and  everything  seems  to  be  going  on  badly. 

"  June  16th. — There  has  been  a  Mutiny  amongst  some 
of  the  Guards,  which  has  been  magnified  and  a  hundred 
stories  circulated  about  it,  but  I  believe  it  was  not  an 
affair  of  much  importance.  There  was  a  riot  at  night  in 
Charing  Cross,  and  the  riot  act  read,  when  they  dispersed. 

1  Lady  Ann,  daughter  of  the  9th  Duke  of  Hamilton,  died  1846. 

2  Princess  Augusta,  second  daughter  of  George  III,  was  born  1768, 
died  unmarried  1840. 


i82o]  WILLIAM  WILBERFORCE  345 

"  June  18th. — One  of  my  coach-horses  died,  and  the 
others  are  ill ;  it  seems  to  be  a  sort  of  influenza. 

"  June  igth. — The  Queen's  business  is  deferred  until 
Wednesday,  and  papers  are  laid  before  the  House  and 
to  be  printed  to-morrow,  containing  the  correspondence 
between  her  and  Lord  Liverpool  in  order  to  shew  that  they 
have  not  been  able  to  arrange  matters  amicably. 

"  June  21st. — Lady  Astley  gave  a  fancy  ball  at  the 
Argyle  Rooms.  Fanny  looked  very  well  dressed  as  an 
Italian  peasant,  Edmond  had  Felix's  regimentals  and 
Nicolson  was  a  capital  Turk.  The  crowd  was  immense, 
we  did  not  get  home  till  past  four. 

"  Mr.  Calvert  did  not  return  from  the  House  till  past 
five.  He  voted  with  Mr.  Wilberforce  x  for  an  Address  from 
the  House  of  Commons,  entreating  the  Queen  to  submit 
to  an  accommodation  and  forego  her  wish  to  be  included 
in  the  Liturgy. 

"  June  24th. — The  Queen  has  refused  to  comply  with  the 
wishes  of  the  House,  and  everybody  anticipates  the  most 
dreadful  consequences.  Fanny  and  I  dined  at  four  to-day 
and  went  with  the  little  girls  to  sit  in  Kensington  Gardens, 
and  at  half  past  seven  to  drink  tea  with  my  mother. 

"  June  25th. — We  are  almost  dead  with  the  heat  !  Had 
a  visit  from  Limerick  and  Aubrey  Hunt  2  whom  I  have 
not  seen  for  nine  years.  He  is  a  good-humoured,  ugly  red 
nosed  overgrown  cub. 

"  Poor  Colonel  Byde  died  last  Thursday ;  he  has  left 
Mr.  Calvert  £100  as  one  of  his  executors. 

"  July  1st. — Isabella  and  Sir  James  came  to  take  leave 
of  me  this  morning  as  they  are  going  back  to  Ireland. 
They  brought  me  their  youngest  child  Pauline,  whom 

1  William  Wilberforce  (1759-1833),  philanthropist.  In  1780  he 
was  elected  Member  for  Hull,  and  spent  ^8000  or  £9000  on  his  election. 
It  was  in  1789  that  he  moved  twelve  resolutions  condemning  the  slave 
trade,  but  the  abolition  question  made  slow  progress.  The  Bill  finally 
received  the  Royal  Assent  in  March,  1807,  the  motion  having  been 
carried  by  283  to  16.  Mr.  Wilberforce  was  a  man  of  singular  charm 
and  attractiveness. 

2  Sir  Aubrey  Hunt,  2nd  Bart.  He  assumed  the  name  and  arms 
of  De  Vere  in  1832.    He  was  nephew  of  Lord  Limerick. 


346    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1820 

they  have  made  me  a  present  of.  She  is  a  dear  fat  good 
humoured  thing  of  two  years  old. 

"  July  Afth. — A  bill  is  brought  in  to  divorce  the  Queen 
for  improper  behaviour  with  Bergami.1  God  knows  how 
it  will  all  end  ! 

"  Hunsdon  House,  July  10th. — Fanny  and  I  made  a 
mistake  in  the  day.  We  thought  this  was  the  day  we 
were  to  dine  at  Hatfield  House  for  the  Assizes — whereas 
it  was  to-morrow.  We  did  not  discover  our  mistake 
till  we  arrived  there.  Lady  Salisbury  was  out  riding. 
I  did  not  wait  for  her  return,  but  instantly  ordered  post 
horses  and  set  off  for  home.  I  found  all  well,  but  much 
surprised  to  see  us. 

"  Hatfield  House,  July  nth. — We  came  here  this  morn- 
ing and  found  the  house  full ;  we  were  above  a  hundred 
at  dinner.  Judge  Wood  (the  only  Judge)  played  at  Loo 
in  the  evening.  The  Duke  of  Wellington  dined  here  but 
returned  to  town  at  night. 

"  July  12th. — The  gentlemen  went  to  the  Assizes  in  the 
morning  and  dined  there.  We  had  a  dinner  of  nineteen 
here.  We  went  to  the  Hertford  ball  at  night ;  it  was  a 
very  thin  one  indeed. 

"August  $th,  Aldenham  Abbey. — Mr.  Calvert,  Fanny 
and  I  took  leave  of  London  for  the  season  to-day  and 
came  here  (Sir  Charles  Pole's) 2  to  dinner.  Nobody  in  the 
house  except  an  Admiral  Young  and  Miss  Amabel  Pole 
Carew.3  It  is  rather  dull,  but  they  are  a  very  amiable 
family. 

"  August  6th,  Sunday. — It  poured  all  day,  and  as  we 
could  not  go  to  Church  Lady  Pole  read  prayers  to  us. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  August  yth. — Here  we  are  at  home, 
and  found  all  my  treasures  quite  well,  Heaven  be  praised  ! 

"  August  8th. — My  mother  and  Mrs.  C.  Anderson  have 
arrived.    The  Duchess  of  York  is  dead. 

1  Her  Italian  courier. 

2  Sir  Charles  Morice  Pole,  Admiral  of  the  Red,  was  in  1801  created 
a  Baronet.  He  married  1792  Henrietta,  daughter  of  John  Goddard,  of 
Woodford  Hall,  Essex. 

3  She  was  niece  to  Sir  Charles  Pole,  and  daughter  of  his  brother, 
the  Right  Hon.  Reginald  Pole-Carew,  p. a,  m.p. 


i82o]  TRIAL  OF  QUEEN  CAROLINE  347 

"  August  14th. — My  William  came  home  to  go  with  us 
to-morrow  to  a  Fair  at  Hertford,  which  is  to  be  held  in 
the  Assembly  Room  for  the  benefit  of  the  Girls'  School — 
all  fancy  things  done  by  the  ladies — and  young  ladies  are 
to  stand  at  the  booths  and  sell  the  articles.  Fanny  is  to 
be  one  of  them." 

From  Mrs.  Calvert's  description,  bazaars  for  charitable 
purposes  seem  to  have  been  rather  a  novelty  ninety  years 
ago. 

"  August  15th. — We  all  went  to  the  Fair.  Fanny  made 
a  most  excellent  shop  woman  and  I  felt  quite  proud  of 
her.  Ladies  Salisbury,  Dacre,  Cowper,  Caroline  Lamb,  and 
all  the  neighbourhood  were  there  and  the  things  were 
soon  all  sold.    About  500  people  were  present. 

"  August  xyth. — We  had  two  morning  visitors,  Mrs. 
Hanbury  (a  ladylike  pleasing  person)  and  Mrs.  Gordon 
sister  to  the  late  Mr.  Whitbread,  a  strange,  flighty  woman. 
The  Queen's  trial  begins  to-day. 

"  August  iSth. — Everything  went  off  quietly  in  London 
in  spite  of  a  great  concourse  of  people.  The  Queen  went 
to  the  House  of  Lords  and  means  to  go  every  day.  If 
the  charges  against  her  are  true,  she  is  a  most  infamous 
Jezebel.  Mr.  Clutterbuck  *  (who  is  writing  a  history  of 
Hertfordshire)  and  his  son  came  here  to-day. 

"  August  21st. — The  accounts  in  the  papers  of  the 
examination  of  witnesses  against  the  Queen  are  horribly 
indecent. 

"  August  2jth. — I  had  to-day  a  letter  from  John  Knox, 
which  vexed  me  a  good  deal.  He  says  he  was  quite 
shocked  at  hearing  that  my  name  was  mentioned  as  one 
of  the  married  ladies  who  addressed  a  petition  on  the 
Queen's  behalf.  Colonel  King  had  also  heard  it  and  had 
taken  upon  himself  to  contradict  it,  for  which  I  feel  very 

1  Robert  Clutterbuck  (1772-1831),  topographer,  of  Watford, 
Herts.  He  was  educated  at  Harrow,  and  became  a  county  magistrate 
and  a  Fellow  of  the  Society  of  Antiquaries.  For  eighteen  years  he 
was  busily  engaged  in  compiling  a  new  history  of  his  native  county, 
The  History  of  Antiquities  of  the  County  of  Hertfordshire. 


348    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1820 

much  obliged  to  him.  I  find  Mrs.  R.  Calvert  *  is  a  great 
advocate  of  the  Queen,  and  I  dare  say  I  am  confounded 
with  her.  It  is  however  a  most  unpleasant  idea,  and  I 
have  written  to  beg  John  to  contradict  it. 

"  September  1st. — John  Knox  who  has  arrived  here 
tells  me  that  it  was  Mrs.  King's  maid  who  said  she  heard 
of  my  having  signed  the  Address,  but  he  was  only  joking 
when  he  said  he  was  shocked,  for  it  is  too  absurd  a  thing 
for  one  to  believe  about  me. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  Street,  Sept.  6th. — I  visited  Limerick, 
who  says  he  is  quite  worn  out  with  attending  the  House 
of  Lords.  I  visited  Lady  (William)  Rowley.2  Susan, 
her  eldest  daughter,  is  going  to  be  married  to  Colonel 
Mercer.3  They  seem  pleased  with  the  match,  and  I  hear  an 
excellent  character  of  him,  but  I  believe  he  is  poor  enough. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  September  10th. — There  was  an 
Eclipse  of  the  Sun  by  the  moon  last  Thursday,  not  total, 
so  that  it  was  not  near  so  much  obscured  as  I  expected, 
but  it  was  a  very  visible  one.  The  House  of  Lords  has 
adjourned  for  three  weeks,  when  the  Queen  is  to  enter 
on  her  defence. 

"  September  24th. — I  am  sorry  to  say  Felix  is  appointed 
on  full  pay  to  the  54th  Regiment,  now  at  the  Cape.  I 
have  some  hopes,  however,  that  he  will  not  accept  it." 

Early  in  October  we  find  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Calvert  paying 
some  country  visits.  First  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  James  at 
Worlington,  then  to  Sir  John  and  Lady  Robinson  at 
Buckenham  House,  where  they  met  a  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Waddington.  One  wonders  if  this  could  have  been  the 
Miss  Port  so  often  mentioned  in  Mrs.  Delany's  Memoirs, 
the  mother  of  Lady  Llanover  and  Mme.  Bunsen.  Mrs. 
Calvert  continues  : 

"  Holkham,  October  6th. — We  left  Sir  John  Robinson's 

1  Her  sister-in-law. 

2  Sir  William  Rowley,  of  Tendring  Hall,  Suffolk,  married  1785 
Susannah,  daughter  of  Admiral  Sir  Robert  Harland,  Bart. 

3  Susan  Arabella  married  November  2nd,   1820,  and  died  1862. 


i8*>]  COKE  OF  NORFOLK  349 

soon  after  breakfast,  and  arrived  here  soon  after  four. 
Miss  Coke  *  is  an  amiable  person.  Two  of  Lord  Albe- 
marle's daughters,  Lady  Anne  2  and  Lady  Mary,3  good 
humoured  girls  of  sixteen  and  seventeen  are  here,  also  a 
family  of  Blackwells  related  to  the  late  Mrs.  Coke.4  A 
strange  set  are  staying  in  the  house  !  I  must  say  I  ex- 
pected to  find  a  gayer  one.  Not  a  male  but  Mr.  Coke  5 
himself  and  a  young  Mr.  Blackwell,  aged  twenty  !  It  is 
a  magnificent  house  ;  everything  on  a  grand  scale.  Miss 
Coke  read  prayers  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  Audit  room. 

"  October  yth. — Drove  out  in  the  barouche  with  Miss 
Coke. 

"  October  gth. — Drove  to  the  sea  with  Fanny  and  picked 
up  shells  for  Mary  and  Harriet.  Felix  has  to  my  great 
joy  declined  the  appointment  to  the  54th  and  therefore 
does  not  go  to  the  Cape. 

"  Buckenham,  October  nth. — We  left  Holkham  and  re- 
turned here  to-day. 

"  Angel  Inn,  Bury  St.  Edmunds,  October  13th. — We 
came  here  a  large  party  with  the  Robinsons  for  the  Fair, 
and  have  rooms  at  this  inn.  They  had  given  me  a  very 
uncomfortable  sitting-room,  but  Captain  Rous  6  insisted 
on  my  taking  his.  He  is  Steward  and  a  very  pleasing 
young  man.  Captain  Rowley  is  the  other  Steward,  but  as 
he  cannot  leave  his  ship  his  brother  Charles  acts  for  him. 
The  Rowleys  are  all  at  the  Fair,  and  a  great  many  others 

1  Elizabeth  Wilhelmina,  third  daughter  of  Mr.  Coke,  married 
1822  John  Spencer  Stanhope,  Esq.,  of  Cannon  Hall,  Yorkshire,  and 
died  October  30th,  1873. 

2  Lady  Anne  Keppel  married  (as  his  second  wife)  Mr.  Coke,  February 
26th,  1822.  She  married,  secondly,  1843  the  Right  Hon.  Edward 
Ellice,  m.p.,  and  died  July  22nd,  1844. 

8  Lady  Mary  Keppel  married,  firstly,  February  20th,  1826,  Henry 
Frederick  Stephenson.  She  married,  secondly,  1868  Samuel  Charles 
Whitbread,  and  died  September  20th,  1884. 

4  Anne,  eldest  daughter  of  James  Lennox  Dutton,  and  sister  to 
Mrs.  Coke,  married  Samuel  Blackwell,  Esq.,  of  Ampney  Park,  Glouces- 
tershire.   She  died  1821. 

6  Thomas  William  Coke,  well  known  as  Coke  of  Norfolk,  was  for 
many  years  M.P.  for  the  county.  He  was  created  Earl  of  Leicester 
in  1837,  and  died  June  30th,  1842. 

6  Probably  Henry  John,  second  son  of  the  first  Lord  Stradbroke, 
born  1795,  became  an  admiral,  and  died  1877. 


350    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1820 

we  know.  We  dined  at  the  Ordinary  and  went  at  night 
to  the  Ball  which  was  very  crowded.  Fanny  danced  with 
Mr.  C.  Rowley  and  Captain  Rous. 

"  October  14th. — We  went  in  the  morning  to  see  the 
Horsemanship  and  wandered  about  in  large  parties  the 
rest  of  the  time.  Went  at  night  to  the  Play — Henri 
Quatre  and  the  Promissory  Note.  Everybody  is  so  kind 
and  attentive  to  us  that  it  is  quite  delightful,  and  Fanny 
seems  very  popular. 

"  Sunday,  October  15th. — Went  to  Church  and  after- 
wards made  visits.  Took  a  long  walk  with  the  Rowley 
girls — dined  at  the  Ordinary  and  all  drank  tea  together. 
The  young  people  amused  themselves  as  they  did  last 
year  and  were  all  very  merry. 

"  October  16th. — I  spent  the  morning  with  our  friends 
and  wandering  about  the  Abbey  grounds  and  the  Fair — 
also  to  see  the  wild  beasts.    Went  to  the  ball  at  night. 

"  Buckenham  House,  October  lyth. — Captain  Rous 
breakfasted  with  us  ;  he  is  a  most  delightful  young  man. 

"  October  igth. — It  is  thought  that  the  Queen  will  be 
acquitted.    The  ministers  are  in  a  fine  scrape. 

"  Madingley,  October  20th. — Fanny,  Nicolson  and  I  left 
Buckenham  after  breakfast.  Nic  got  out  at  Newmarket 
and  got  at  the  top  of  the  stage  to  go  to  Hunsdon  and  we 
came  here.  There  was  a  biting  wind  and  in  the  open 
carriage  we  were  almost  frozen.  A  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Haggett 
and  Mr.  Pepys  dined  here  and  we  played  at  whist.  Mr. 
Calvert  came  in  the  evening  from  the  Quarter  Sessions 
at  Cambridge. 

"  Saturday,  October  21st. — I  drove  with  Lady  Cotton  to 
see  Mrs.  Alick  Cotton.    Nobody  dined  here. 

"  Hunsdon  House,  November  8th. — I  was  in  town  last 
Tuesday  and  spent  a  dull  day  alone  in  Wimpole  Street. 
After  breakfast  I  went  to  see  Lady  Rowley  and  Louisa 
and  took  leave  of  them,  as  they  are  going  directly  to  the 
West  Indies  for  three  years.  They  go  out  in  the  '  Sybille  ' 
of  which  Captain  Rowley  is  Flag  Captain.  I  dined  with 
Theo  Rice  and  her  husband — Limerick  was  there.  I  left 
town  on  Wednesday  glad  to  get  back  again. 


MARCHIONESS   CONYNGHAM 
From  a  miniature  by  T.  Singry  (about  1S25-30)  in  the  Wallace  Collection 


i82i]  LADY  CONYNGHAM  351 

"  November  2jth. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  Digwell  (Mr. 
Spencer  Cowper's)  to  dine  and  sleep.  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Lloyd  and  Mr.  Giles  stayed  in  the  house,  and  also  Mr. 
and  Lady  Caroline  Lamb,  Mrs.  Henry  Cowper  and  two 
Miss  Murrays  dined  there.  Lady  Caroline  is  a  very 
strange  person  and  amused  us. 

"  November  28th. — Mr.  Lloyd,  Fan  and  I  walked  in  the 
morning  to  Brocket  Hall  to  visit  Lady  Caroline  Lamb 
and  ate  our  luncheon  there.  We  all  went  at  night  to  Lady 
Salisbury's  At  Home  at  Hatfield.  There  was  dancing 
and  Fanny  danced  with  Mr.  Frederick  Franks  and  Tom 
Sebright. 

"  December  5th. — Miss  Eliza  FitzClarence  married 
Lord  Erroll.1  The  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Clarence  were 
at  the  wedding. 

"  December  16th. — Last  Saturday  the  Duchess  of 
Clarence  produced  a  daughter.  She  is  christened  Eliza- 
beth." 2    f}. 

Early  next  year  Mrs.  Calvert  and  her  daughter  Fanny 
went  to  stay  with  Lord  and  Lady  Northland  at  Brighton. 

"  January  12th. — Lady  Stronge  and  Miss  Tew  came 
in  the  evening ;   we  played  at  Loo. 

"  January  15th. — They  are  all  gone  to  the  Pavilion, 
but  Fanny  and  I  were  not  asked,  very  different  from 
former  times  ! 

"  January  ijth. — Went  at  night  to  the  Pavilion  a 
large  party.  The  King  received  me  very  graciously, 
much  better  than  when  I  was  last  here.  Princess  Augusta 
is  with  him  :  she  is  grown  fat  and  plain,  but  received  me 
very  well  and  enquired  for  Isabella.  The  King  looks  thin 
and  old,  and  not,  I  think,  as  if  he  had  long  to  live.  The 
Pavilion  is  quite  beautiful,  really  like  fairy  land.  Lady 
Conyngham  3   the   reigning   favourite,    I   don't   admire. 

1  William  George,  17th  Earl  of  Erroll,  born  1801,  married  December 
4th,  1820,  Elizabeth  FitzClarence,  sister  of  the  1st  Earl  of  Munster, 
and  natural  daughter  of  His  Majesty  King  William  IV. 

2  Princess  Elizabeth  died  on  March  4th,  1821. 

3  Henry,  1st  Marquess  Conyngham,  married  1794  Elizabeth, 
daughter  of  Joseph  Denison,  Esq.    She  died  1861. 


352    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1821 

Her  daughter  Lady  Elizabeth  1  is  very  pretty.  The  fool 
of  a  husband  is  ugly  and  contemptible  ;  I  have  known 
him  for  many  years.  I  really  think  the  Court  looked  more 
dignified  in  Lady  Hertford's  reign  ;  that  I  believe  is  quite 
over.  We  came  home  about  twelve,  it  was  stupid  and 
terribly  hot.  Lords  Castlereagh  and  Liverpool  were 
there. 

"  January  18th. — We  went  to  a  stupid  party  at  Mrs. 
Fitzherberts,  played  at  Loo. 

"  January  igth. — Lady  Blackwood  2  dined  here  :  Lady 
Perth  3  came  in  the  evening,  played  at  Loo. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  Street,  January  23rd. — We  got  a  sad 
fright  yesterday  about  my  dearest  Mother.  Mr.  Tupper 
sent  an  express  to  say  that  he  thought  her  very  unwell, 
a  bad  cold  and  very  weak.  My  sister  and  I  therefore, 
feeling  very  miserable,  set  off  at  six  o'clock  in  her  coach 
and  four  with  Mr.  Chilver  and  arrived  in  town  driving 
straight  to  Park  Street  at  twelve  at  night.  We  found 
my  mother  thank  God  better,  and  Mr.  Chilver  relieved 
my  mind  very  much.  Though  I  sleep  here,  I  spend  all 
day  in  Park  Street.  I  am  still  very  uncomfortable  about 
my  dear  Mother,  though  certainly  better,  she  is  still  very 
weak.  She  gets  up  late,  and  we  sit  with  her,  but  she 
dozes  constantly  and  says  very  little.  Parliament  met 
to-day  and  the  King  was  much  applauded. 

"  January  24th. — My  Mother  much  the  same.  We 
dine  and  spend  all  day  in  Park  Street. 

"  January  26th. — The  House  divided  on  Lord  Archi- 
bald Hamilton's  motion  about  restoring  the  Queen's 
name  to  the  Liturgy.  Mr.  C.  voted  with  the  opposition. 
They  sat  till  7  o'clock.     Ministers'  majority  101. 

"  January  29th. — My  Mother  better.    I  have  very  bad 

1  Lady  Elizabeth  Conyngham  married  Charles,  ioth  Marquess  of 
Huntly,  and  d.s.p.  1839. 

2  The  Hon.  Sir  Henry  Blackwood,  k.c.b.,  born  1770,  youngest 
son  of  Sir  John  Blackwood  and  Baroness  Dufferin.  He  was  created  a 
Baronet  18 14,  having  attained  high  rank  in  the  Navy.  He  married, 
thirdly,  1808  Harriet,  daughter  of  the  late  Francis  Gore,  Governor  of 
Granada. 

3  James,  nth  Earl  of  Perth,  born  1749,  married  1785  Clementina, 
daughter  of  Charles,  ioth  Lord  Elphinstone.    He  died  1800. 


VISCOUNTESS    PERY 


i82i]  DEATH  OF  LADY  PERY  353 

headaches  and  am  very  low,  on  many  scores,  but  I  don't 
like  to  commit  to  paper  what  makes  me  very  unhappy. 

"  February  yth. — Mr.  C.  was  not  in  bed  until  eight 
this  morning,  from  the  House.  He  voted  with  the 
Opposition. 

"  February  10th. — Dined  and  spent  the  day  in  Park 
Street.    My  mother,  thank  God,  delightfully.' ' 

The  improvement  in  Lady  Pery's  health  continued,  and 
Mrs.  Calvert  was  able  to  return  to  Brighton,  and  went  with 
her  sister  to  a  ball  at  the  Pavilion  on  February  19th. 

"  February  20th. — We  were  home  soon  after  one.  The 
ball  was  like  all  other  balls,  the  King  civil  enough.  Fanny 
danced  with  Lord  Graham.    She  really  looked  very  pretty. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  Street,  March  18th. — Visited  my 
mother  after  Church,  she  was  asleep  the  whole  time. 
The  Duke  of  Clarence's  daughter  is  dead. 

"  April  $th. — Alas  !  I  have  a  most  melancholy  event 
to  record.  Yesterday  morning  at  half  past  eight  my 
beloved,  dearest  mother  breathed  her  last  without  a 
groan  or  a  struggle.  I  had  thought  her  weaker  the  last 
two  days  but  on  Tuesday  morning  fancied  her  better. 
Alas  !  it  was  a  delusive  hope  for,  at  eighty-eight,  what 
amendment  could  be  expected  ?  I  visited  her  on  Tuesday 
night :  little  did  I  think  I  should  never  see  her  alive  again. 
The  next  morning  a  note  came  from  Mrs.  Cecil  Anderson 
saying  an  alarming  change  had  taken  place.  I  jumped 
out  of  bed  to  hurry  on  my  things  but  before  five  minutes 
had  elapsed  another  note  came  to  say  that  all  was  over. 
Those  who  have  lost  as  angelic  a  parent  will  understand 
what  I  feel. 

"  As  soon  as  I  was  dressed  I  went  to  see  the  remains 
of  the  departed  angel.  Her  face  serene  in  death  looked 
as  if  she^slept.  I  kissed  her  dear  cold  cheek  and  prayed 
that  my  sins  might  be  forgiven  and  wejfmight  meet  in 
Heaven.  My  little  darlings  were  quite  ih\  yesterday  from 
their  grief.  We  had  a  melancholy  dinner.  I  went  at 
night  to  kiss  her  once  more,  and  pray  at  her  bedside, 
2  A 


354    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1821 

"  Nobody  who  knew  my  mother  could  help  loving  and 
regretting  her.  Her  mind  was  purity,  goodness,  and 
benevolence  itself.  She  had  the  innocence  and  simplicity 
of  a  child  :  long,  long  will  she  be  regretted." 

Lady  Pery's  grandson,  Edmond  Knox,  wrote  of  his 
grandmother  long  afterwards,  that  she  had  been  all  her 
life  a  "  rickety  crock,"  therefore  it  seems  rather  remark- 
able that  she  should  have  lived  to  attain  so  great  an  age. 

"  April  gth. — I  have  settled  to  remain  in  town  till 
Friday,  though  I  had  wished  to  attend  the  dear  remains 
to  Pelham  on  Thursday,  I  have  yielded  to  the  wishes  of 
my  friends  and  given  it  up." 

Lady  Pery  was  buried  with  her  husband  in  the  family 
vault  at  Furneaux  Pelham  in  Hertfordshire  on  April  12th. 
Mr.  Calvert's  brother  Robert  had  died  the  day  before  from 
a  paralytic  stroke. 

"  April  14th. — Poor  Bob  is  to  be  buried  at  three  o'clock 
on  Thursday  in  Hunsdon  Church,  not  at  Pelham ;  I  am 
sorry  for  it.  The  will  had  not  been  opened  when  Mr.  C. 
wrote. 

"  April  15th. — Bob  has  left  the  interest  and  profits  of 
everything  he  possessed  to  Mrs.  R.  Calvert  for  her  life. 
At  her  death  (if  he  survives  her)  all  is  to  go  to  Charles, 
and  at  his  death  between  Mr.  C.  and  Walter.  The  will 
is  obscurely  written  and  I  should  not  be  surprised  if  parts 
of  it  were  disputed  by  the  family,  particularly  as  when 
the  codicil  was  made  he  certainly  was  not  fit  to  dispose 
of  his  property. 

"  May  1st. — Lord  Carhampton  J  has  left  Lady  C. 
everything  for  her  life.     He  has  left  Mr.  C.  £200. 

"  May    nth,    Wimpole   Street. — Lady   Worcester  2   is 

1  Lord  Carhampton  died  on  or  about  April  23rd.  Mr.  Luke  White 
bought  his  estate  at  Luttrelstown,  in  Ireland. 

3  Georgina  Frederica,  daughter  of  the  Hon.  Henry  FitzRoy, 
married  on  July  25th,  18 14,  Henry,  Marquess  of  Worcester,  and 
left  two  daughters.  It  is  said  that  she  was  in  the  Regent's  company 
when  Beau  Brummell  remarked  to  Lord  Alvanley,  "Who's  your  fat 
friend  ?  "  an  impertinence  which  was  never  forgiven. 


ifei]  CORONATION  OF  GEORGE  IV  355 

dead,  and  her  own  imprudence  was  the  cause  of  it. 
She  danced  all  night  at  Carlton  House,  and  afterwards 
went  into  a  cold  bath.  It  has  created  a  great  sensation. 
She  was  pretty,  gay  and  fashionable.  But  I  hear  she  was 
aware  of  her  danger  :  on  Thursday  night  she  took  leave 
of  her  friends  and  received  the  Sacrament.  Lord  Worces- 
ter I  hear  is  in  great  despair,  but  he  will  soon  console  him- 
self, and  his  family  will  not  much  regret  her.  She  died  at 
her  uncle  the  Duke  of  Wellington's  house,  and  has  left  two 
daughters. 

"  May  13th. — I  went  to  Welbeck  Street  Chapel  and 
spent  the  remainder  of  the  day  at  home.  Luke  White  l 
has  bought  the  remainder  of  the  lease  of  my  poor  dear 
Mother's  house  in  Park  Street." 

The  next  entry  in  Mrs.  Calvert's  journal  mentions  a 
curious  little  point  of  etiquette. 

"  May  21st. — Fan  and  Edmond  went  to  a  ball  at  Mrs. 
Beaumont's.  She  does  not  dance,  of  course,  in  black 
gloves. 

"  May  29th. — Fanny  went  to  a  Ball  at  Mrs.  Prideaux 
Brune's.2 

"  June  4th. — We  dined  at  Lord  Kilmorey's.  Mr. 
Stuart  3  is  going  to  be  married  to  Miss  Pole. 

"  June  yth. — Fanny  went  with  Edmond  and  Jenny 
Knox  and  Georgiana  Rowley  to  Epsom  Races. 

"  June  12th. — I  took  the  girls  this  morning  to  see  the 
preparations  at  Westminster  Hall  and  Abbey  for  the 
Coronation. 

1  Luke  White,  Esq.,  m.p.,  of  Annaly.  His  son,  Henry  White,  was 
created  Baron  Annaly  1863. 

8  Frances,  daughter  of  Thomas  Patten,  of  Bank  Hall,  Co.  Lancaster. 
She  and  her  sisters  were  noted  beauties,  and  were  called  the  "Lancashire 
Witches."  She  married  1794  the  Rev.  Charles  Prideaux  Brune, 
of  Place,  Cornwall.  He  was  born  1760,  and  in  conformity  with 
the  testamentary  injunction  of  a  maternal  uncle,  from  whom  he  in- 
herited extensive  estates  in  Cornwall,  assumed  the  name  of  Brune  in 
addition  to  that  of  Prideaux.    He  died  1833. 

3  Mr.  William  Stuart  of  Aldenham  Abbey,  Herts,  married  1821 
Henrietta,  daughter  of  Admiral  Sir  Charles  Morice  Pole,  Bart.  She 
died  1853. 


356    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [iSai 

"  June  2yd. — Poor  little  Sophia  Rowley,  Sir  Charles' 
youngest  daughter,  is  dead. 

"  July  2nd. — Took  the  girls  to  the  English  Opera 
House.  Felix  and  James  went  with  us.  It  was  Baron 
Trenck  and  the  Vampire  ;  entertaining  enough.  Prepara- 
tions'for  the  Coronation  are  going  on  :  it  is  fixed  for  the 
19th.  I  have  always  forgotten  to  notice  Bonaparte's 
death  which  took  place  in  May.  It  is  astonishing  how 
little  sensation  it  has  created:  the  Coronation  is  much 
more  thought  of. 

"  July  12th. — We  went  at  night  to  Co  vent  Garden  to 
see  Henry  IV  and  the  Coronation,  it  was  crowded  to 
excess.  I  hear  the  King  is  very  angry  at  his  Coronation 
being  forestalled,  I  am  quite  sick  of  the  word  myself  !  It 
is  decided  that  the  Queen  is  not  to  be  crowned,  but  she 
means  to  be  a  spectatress.     Many  anticipate  riots. 

"  July  igth,  Hunsdon  House. — This  is  the  day  of  the 
Coronation.  At  half  past  ten  we  heard  the  Tower  guns 
which  were  to  be  fired  as  soon  as  the  King  had  the  Crown 
on  his  head.  It  is  a  fine  hot  day  and  I  have  given  the 
school  children  a  holiday  in  honour  of  the  event.  They 
have  been  up  here,  sixty-one  in  number  to  receive  a  large 
cake  and  sixpence  each  which  I  made  Mary  and  Harriet 
distribute. 

"  July  20th. — Charles  Calvert  has  arrived  at  the 
Parsonage.  He  says  everything  went  off  very  well  at 
the  Coronation.  The  Queen  went  there  but  could  not 
gain  admittance."  1 

It  has  been  said  that  Queen  Caroline's  vexation  and 
disappointment  helped  to  bring  on  her  last  illness  ;  at 
any  rate  her  death  followed  very  shortly  afterwards. 

"  July  29th. — Sir  James  Stronge  writes  to  say  that  he 
will  send  a  maid  for  Pauline  as  he  takes  her  to  Ireland  on 
Wednesday.  I  am  sorry  to  part  with  the  good  humored 
little  soul,  but  as  her  mother  wishes  for  her,  I  could  not 
refuse  to  let  her  go. 

1  Sir  James  Stronge,  as  a  gentleman  of  the  Privy  Chamber,  at- 
tended the  Coronation  of  George  IV. 


GENERAL    FELIX    CALVERT 


i8*i]  DEATH  OF  QUEEN  CAROLINE  357 

"  July  31^,  Hatfield  House. — Mr.  C.  Fan  and  I  came 
here  to  dine  and  meet  the  judges.  A  large  party  as  usual. 
Lord  and  Lady  Dacre,  Mrs.  Hale,  Sir  John  Sebright,  and 
a  few  more  staying  in  the  house.  Lady  Cranbourne  1 
not  unpleasing.  We  shall  go  home  to-morrow  after  the 
Hertford  ball. 

"  August  yd,  Hunsdon  House. — We  drove  about  Hat- 
field Park  yesterday.  Fanny  went  in  the  Phaeton  with 
Lady  Dacre  and  Mrs.  Laws  with  Lady  Cranbourne  in 
her  barouche.  At  night  we  all  went  to  a  very  bad  ball 
at  Hertford.  Fanny  opened  it  with  Lord  Cranbourne.  We 
came  away  before  supper. 

"  August  8th. — The  King  has  embarked  for  Ireland. 
The  Queen  is  dying  :  the  bulletins  are  very  bad.  Lady 
Robinson,  Jane,  and  Henrietta  arrived  to  tea. 

"  August  gth. — The  Queen  is  dead,  she  expired  at  half 
past  ten  yesterday  evening.  She  was  I  believe  a  very 
good-for-nothing  but  certainly  a  deeply  injured  woman. 

"  August  16th. — Mr.  John  Calvert  is  gone  with  the 
Queen's  body  to  Brunswick. 

"  August  21st. — Felix  went  to  meet  his  father  and  Mr. 
Coke  at  Newmarket  to  proceed  with  them  on  a  visit  to 
the  Duke  of  Norfolk,2  from  there  they  go  to  Lord  Albe- 
marle's 3  and  then  to  Holkham.  Fanny  and  I  are  alone, 
the  weather  fine  and  hot.  We  read  aloud  to  each  other 
in  the  evening  when  Mary  and  Harriet  are  gone  to  bed. 

"  August  28th. — I  saw  with  great  pleasure  in  to-day's 
Gazette  that  Felix  is  appointed  to  full  pay  in  the  72nd,4 
just  what  he  was  so  anxious  for.  The  regiment  is  at  the 
Cape  but  is  ordered  home." 

Mrs.  Calvert  about  this  time  had  several  visitors  in 
the  house.     Sir  Harry  Calvert  and  his  three  daughters 

1  Viscount  Cranborne,  afterwards  2nd  Marquess  of  Salisbury, 
married,  firstly,  1821  Frances  Mary,  daughter  and  heir  of  Bamber 
Gascoyne,  Esq.    She  died  1839. 

2  Bernard  Edward,   12th  Duke  of  Norfolk,  born  1765,  died  1842. 

3  William  Charles,  4th  Earl  of  Albemarle,  born  1772,  died  1849. 
The  family  seat  is  Quidenham  Park,  Attleborough,  Norfolk. 

4  Felix  Calvert's  picture,  by  Massot,  is  in  the  uniform  of  the  72nd 
Regiment. 


358    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1821 

came  for  three  days,  and  after  that  a  lady  of  whom  her 

hostess  remarks,  "  Mrs. is  odious  :  it  is  quite  a  relief 

to  me  to  have  got  rid  of  her."  In  September  Mrs.  Calvert 
and  Fanny  visited  the  new  Haymarket  Theatre,  and  were 
very  well  amused  with  the  play  of  "  Match  breaking  and 
match  making."  "  Oxberry  and  Terry  are  very  good 
actors,  and  Mrs.  Chatterley  too  acts  very  tolerably." 

During  a  week's  visit  to  Lord  Limerick  about  this  time 
the  mother  and  daughter  drove  to  Bagshot  Park  to  visit 
the  Duchess  of  Gloucester  who  was,  however,  not  at  home. 

"  October  ist,  South  Hill  Park. — It  is  dull  enough  here, 
and  though  I  am  really  fond  of  them  all  I  shall  be  glad 
to  get  home." 

Human  nature  never  alters.  Like  many  lively  people 
Mrs.  Calvert  was  easily  bored,  and  she  exactly  expresses 
the  sentiments  of  many  unfortunate  souls,  to  whom 
country  house  visiting  is  sometimes  a  penance  to  be  en- 
dured with  resignation. 

"  October  30/A,  Hunsdon  House. — I  had  a  letter  to-day 
saying  that  Felix  is  appointed  to  the  command  of  a 
Battalion  to  be  formed  from  the  Depot  in  the  Isle  of 
Wight,  so  he  must  prepare  directly  for  going  there.  He 
will  be  a  sad  loss  to  us  ;  he  is  quite  the  life  of  the  house. 

"  November  2nd. — A  letter  from  John  Knox  to-day 
announces  that  he  is  going  to  be  married  to  Miss  Mabella 
Needham,1  Lord  Kilmorey's  youngest  daughter  and  a 
very  nice  girl.  Lord  Northland  gives  John  £10,000,  and 
Lord  Kilmorey  gives  her  £10,000.  They  will  not  be  very 
rich,  but  I  trust  they  will  be  very  happy. 

"  November  14th. — Mr.  and  Mrs.  William  Stuart  came 
here.  They  seem  very  happy  and  much  in  love  with  each 
other. 

1  Mabella  (afterwards  Lady  Mabella),  youngest  daughter  of  the 
ist  Earl  of  Kilmorey.  She  was  born  November  22nd,  1801,  and  lived 
to  the  age  of  ninety-eight. 


i822]  MRS.  CALVERT  AT  BATH  359 

"  November  16th. — Mr.  Lamb  and  Lady  Caroline  came 
to  dine  and  sleep.  Lady  Caroline  brought  a  little  girl  of 
two  years  old  :  the  dearest  thing  I  ever  saw.  She  is  a 
child  of  mystery.  Lady  C.  calls  her  '  Susan  '  and  nothing 
else.  We  are  all  dying  to  know  who  she  is,  but  cannot 
get  it  out  of  her.  We  sometimes  think  she  is  Mr.  Lamb's 
child.  Lady  Caroline  is  very  odd,  very  amusing ;  like 
nobody  but  herself.  Some  say  she  is  mad  and  cannot 
bear  her,  but  she  made  herself  very  pleasant  here." 

Towards  the  end  of  November  in  this  year  Edmond 
Calvert  suffered  much  from  rheumatism,  and  his  mother 
took  him  to  Bath  for  some  weeks'  treatment,  accompanied 
by  her  brother-in-law  Walter  and  her  devoted  Fanny. 
They  took  lodgings  at  3  Edgar  Buildings  and  found  the 
house  "  small  but  comfortable."  Their  first  Sunday 
they  went  to  the  Octagon  Chapel,  now  so  well  known 
to  all  visitors  to  Bath  who  have  admired  Mr.  Mallett's 
priceless  collection  of  old  silver  and  antiquities.  Mrs. 
Calvert  was  not  favourably  impressed  by  Bath  society, 
and  describes  her  first  party  there  in  her  usual  outspoken 
fashion. 

"  November  30th. — The  wind  was  so  high  that  we  felt 

rather  nervous  going  in  chairs  to  Mrs.  L 's  party  in 

the  Crescent.  There  were  eight  card  tables  and  some 
walked  about.  But  an  uglier  set  of  Quizzes  I  never  saw. 
So  much  for  a  Bath  party." 

Impossible  to  help  laughing  at  this  graphic  picture, 
sketched  in  so  few  words  !  We  can  imagine  the  two  fine 
London  ladies  stepping  daintily  out  of  their  Sedan  chairs, 
and  looking  with  delicately  veiled  scorn  at  their  fellow- 
guests.  It  vividly  recalls  Pickwickian  days,  when  every 
one  more  or  less  was  a  "  quiz,"  and  how  on  a  certain 
windy  night  the  hapless  Mr.  Winkle  rushed  madly  into 


360    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY    [1822 

a  Sedan  chair  from  a  house  in  Royal  Crescent  when  pur- 
sued by  the  infuriated  Dowler. 

"  December  nth. — I  tumbled  downstairs  and  knocked 
my  head,  so  they  sent  for  a  Surgeon  who  bled  me  and 
ordered  me  a  dose  of  Calomel." 

Drastic  indeed  were  the  remedies  of  those  days  ! 

"  December  16th. — Louisa  Robinson  is  going  to  be 
married  to  William  Knox,1  the  Bishop  of  Derry's  second 
son. 

"  December  2yd. — I  went  to  Christ  Church  in  the  morn- 
ing and  in  the  afternoon  walked  to  see  the  floods.  It  is 
quite  terrific  !  In  the  lower  part  of  the  town  the  houses 
are  deluged  and  the  inhabitants  shut  up  in  the  upper 
parts  and  provisions  taken  to  them  in  boats.  The  day 
as  usual  ended  in  rain." 

1822. 

Mrs.  Calvert  spent  Christmas  at  Bath,  and  left  it  early 
in  the  New  Year  accompanied  by  her  husband  and 
daughter  and  her  cousin  Lady  Louisa  Pery.  The  first  stop 
in  the  homeward  journey  was  made  at  Speen  Hill  and  she 
writes  : 

"  January  yth. — In  this  very  Inn  and  in  the  very  bed- 
room we  are  going  to  occupy  tonight  we  slept  on  the 
9th  of  January  thirty  three  years  ago, — our  wedding 
night  !  " 

At  South  Hill  Park,  their  next  halting-place,  they  found 
all  the  family  assembled  to  celebrate  Lord  Limerick's 
sixty-fourth  birthday. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  St.,  Jan.  gth. — My  sister  and  Fanny 
Knox  came  to  us  at  nine  and  sat  till  eleven.  I  am  sorry 
to  find  there  is  a  hitch  about  John's  match,  Lord  Kil- 
morey  does  not  come  forward  with  her  fortune  and  Lord 

1  He  married,  first  (1811),  Sarah,  daughter  of  Sir  A.  Ferguson, 
Bart. ;  secondly  (1821),  Louisa,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Sir  J.  Robinson, 
Bart.     She  died  1849. 


i822]        MARRIAGE  OF  HON.  JOHN  KNOX         361 

Northland  wont  agree  to  it  unless  he  does.  My  sister 
is  miserable  about  it — she  delights  in  the  girl. 

"Jan.  13th. — Lord  Kilmorey  is  made  an  Earl,  and 
Lord  Westmeath  a  Marquis,  and  there  are  several  other 
promotions. 

"  Jan.  30th,  Hunsdon  House. — I  visited  Mrs.  Plumer.1 
She  behaves  very  properly — very  quiet  and  composed, 
speaks  with  tears  and  kindness  of  him,  but  does  not 
affect  the  sort  of  grief  she  would  have  felt  for  a  younger 
man.  He  was  thirty  three  years  older  than  she  was.  She 
made  him  a  most  excellent  wife.  I  believe  he  has  left  her 
everything — they  say  she  has  £12,000  a  year. 

"  Jan.  31st. — This  is  my  darling  Fan's  twenty  third 
birthday.  God  bless  and  preserve  her  !  I  trust  she  will 
also  meet  with  a  good  husband.  I  have  one  in  my  eye  for 
her,  but  I  fear,  should  he  choose  her  she  will  not  have 
him,  though  amiable  and  excellent. 

"  Upper  Wimpole  St.,  Feb.  4th. — What  an  old  lady  I 
am — fifty  four  !  Oh  that  I  could  say  I  am  increased  in 
goodness  as  I  am  in  age,  but  alas  it  is  no  such  thing. 

"  Feb.  15th. — I  had  a  letter  yesterday  from  John  Knox 
to  announce  that  his  marriage  with  Lady  Mabella  had 
taken  place  on  the  12th. 

"  Feb.  zyth. — Lord  Albemarle  was  married  a  few  days 
ago  to  Miss  Charlotte  Hunloke.2 

"  Feb.  igth. — Mr.  Coke  is  going  to  be  married  to  Lady 
Anne  Keppel.  He  is  sixty  eight  and  she  eighteen.  No- 
body talks  of  anything  else  but  this  extraordinary  match. 

"  March  2nd. — Mr.  Coke  and  Lady  Anne  were  married 
on  Tuesday  !  They  are  gone  to  Paddington  to  pass  the 
honeymoon. 

"  March  14th. — We  went  to  a  ball  at  Mrs.  Mitchell's, 
a  very  fine  one.  Fanny  was  asked  by  a  great  many  to 
dance,  but  she  has  resolved  not  to  dance  any  more. 

1  A  lately  widowed  neighbour.  She  was  by  birth  Jane  Hamilton, 
sixth  daughter  of  the  Hon.  George  Hamilton,  Canon  of  Windsor,  son 
of  the  7th  Earl  of  Abercorn,  and  therefore  a  cousin  of  Mrs.  Calvert's. 

2  Daughter  of  the  late  Sir  Henry  Hunloke,  Bart.  She  died  1862. 
"  The  lady  is  forty-five,"  remarked  Creevey,  "  which  is  all  very  well, 
if  he  must  be  married." 


362    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1822 

"  May  1st. — A  dreadful  thing  happened  last  Monday. 
The  Primate  of  Ireland  *  had  not  been  well,  and  was 
ordered  a  draught,  which  was  to  be  taken  directly  it 
arrived.  At  the  same  time  a  bottle  of  laudanum  was 
sent  for  one  of  the  servants  who  had  a  bad  leg.  Instead 
of  the  draught,  the  laudanum  was  brought  by  mistake 
to  Mrs.  Stuart,  who  at  once  gave  it  to  her  husband.  He 
died  in  consequence  at  five  that  afternoon,  in  spite  of 
three  doctors  and  all  their  remedies.  Poor  Mrs.  Stuart 
and  indeed  the  whole  family  are  in  a  state  of  distraction. 
How  I  do  pity  her  ! 

"  May  24th. — Mr.  C.  did  not  come  from  the  House  till 
past  nine.    £200,000  taxes  are  taken  off. 

"  June  yth. — Fanny  and  I  went  to  an  assembly  at 
Lansdowne  House.  The  Prince  of  Denmark  was  there 
and  we  thought  him  very  good  looking.  I  was  introduced 
to  Prince  Frederick  of  Holstein,  the  Duke's  brother  and 
a  very  nice  young  man." 

This  year  Lady  Stronge  was  again  in  an  interesting 
situation,  and  Mrs.  Calvert,  somewhat  against  her  will, 
was  obliged  to  make  another  journey  to  Ireland  to  bear 
her  daughter  company,  escorted  by  her  son,  and  she 
remarks  : 

"  William  is  a  delightful  travelling  companion  and  the 
Phaeton  very  comfortable.  The  weather,  however,  is  very 
hot." 

After  breakfasting  at  Shrewsbury,  they  dined  at 
Llangollen,  and  walked  up  to  visit  the  recluses,  Lady 
Eleanor  Butler  and  Miss  Ponsonby,  who  were  delighted  to 
see  them.  At  Rylands  Hotel,  Sackville  Street,  they 
dined  with  Lord  Northland,  and  arrived  at  Tynan  on 
June  14th. 

1  The  Hon.  William  Stuart,  Archbishop  of  Armagh,  was  fifth  son 
of  the  3rd  Earl  of  Bute,  k.g.  He  was  born  1755,  married  1796  Sophia, 
daughter  of  Thomas  Penn,  Esq.,  and  died  1822.  It  is  said  that,  after 
this  fatal  accident,  all  mixtures  likely  to  be  poisonous  were  ordered 
to  be  put  in  coloured  glass  bottles  for  the  future. 


i822]  A  VISIT  TO  IRELAND  363 

"  Tynan  Abbey,  June  20th. — This  house  is  good  and 
very  pretty  and  the  place  very  nice,  but  somewhat 
exposed.  At  all  events  I  would  not  be  condemned  to  live 
in  Ireland  for  anything.  General  and  Mrs.  Egerton, 
Major  Kelly  and  a  Mrs.  St.  George  dined  here.  They  are 
pleasant  good  humoured  people.  Major  Kelly  is  delight- 
ful and  he  tells  a  great  many  entertaining  stories. 

"  July  1st. — Lord  Northland  and  Willy  arrived  from 
Dungannon. 

"  July  10th. — A  party  of  Orangemen  marched  through 
here  to-day — colours  flying,  drums  beating  and  playing 
tunes  most  offensive  to  the  Catholics.  They  were  orna- 
mented with  orange  lilies,  ribbons,  etc.,  to  commemorate 
the  Battle  of  the  Boyne  :  it  is  a  shameful  practice. 

"  July  13th. — The  Orange  people  yesterday  committed 
great  outrages  upon  the  Catholics  and  two  young  men 
are  not  expected  to  live. 

"  July  16th. — I  took  a  long  walk  with  Sir  James,  about 
eight  English  miles,  and  walked  again  in  the  evening  with 
Isabella. 

"  July  lyth. — Isabella  was  (thank  God  !)  brought  to 
bed  of  a  fine  boy  *  at  a  little  before  two  :  on  the  whole 
she  had  a  very  good  time. 

"  July  igth.  Friday. — Nothing  can  go  on  better  than 
dear  Isabella.  I  am  terribly  impatient  to  be  off  and  have 
settled  this  day  week,  but  have  not  ventured  to  announce 
it.  One  of  the  Catholics  who  was  beaten  is  dead,  and  the 
Coroner's  inquest  has  brought  in  a  verdict  of  wilful 
murder.  There  is  great  irritation  amongst  the  Catholics, 
and  people  are  much  afraid  of  what  the  result  may  be. 

"  July  23rd. — Isabella  has  agitated  herself  at  the  idea 
of  my  going  so  soon,  and  I  have  been  obliged  to  give  it  up. 
Alas  !  I  intend  going  on  Monday,  but  shall  not  believe  it 
till  I  am  out  of  the  gate.  It  is  dismal  here,  and  owing  to 
an  inflamed  eye  I  cannot  employ  myself ;  it  is  pouring 
with  rain  and  one  cannot  go  out. 

1  Edmond  Robert  Francis,  born  1822,  formerly  captain  in  the 
Tyrone  Militia,  married  1859  Charlotte  Newman,  daughter  of  John 
Piercy  Henderson  of  Somerford,  Stirling. 


364    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [182* 

"  July  2jth. — The  baby  was  half  baptized — Edmond 
Robert  Francis. 

"  July  28th. — I  did  not  go  to  Church  yesterday,  but 
read  prayers  to  Isabella.  I  leave  this  tomorrow  and  have 
determined  to  set  off  without  seeing  Isabella  in  the 
morning  to  avoid  agitating  her  by  taking  leave.'' 

Journeys  were  in  those  days  long  and  tedious.  The 
travellers  left  Tynan  at  five  in  the  morning  and,  owing 
to  slow  horses  and  losing  their  way,  it  was  six  in  the 
evening  before  they  reached  Lucan  House,  near  Dublin, 
where  some  Vesey  1  Cousins  gave  them  a  hospitable 
welcome.  "  I  was  quite  giddy  from  travelling  so  long  !  " 
writes  poor  Mrs.  Calvert. 

"  July  30th. — We  walked  about  Lucan,  which  is  really 
a  very  pretty  place  and  recals  my  youth  to  me.  Coming 
into  Dublin,  we  stopped  at  Edmondsbury  2  and  went 
through  part  of  the  house.  I  could  not  see  it  without 
painful  emotion.  .  .  .  The  trees  are  growing  amazingly 
and  it  is  a  beautiful  place.    It  belongs  to  a  Mrs.  Needham. 

"  We  then  proceeded  to  Dublin  to  visit  my  Aunt 
Staples.3  I  was  very  much  affected  at  seeing  her,  she  is 
so  like  my  beloved  mother  in  looks,  voice,  and  manner. 
Lord  Northland  and  Mary  Temple  4  were  both  there. 
We  went  to  see  Mrs.  Brownlow  and  old  Lady  Rossmore,5 
a  wonderful  old  woman,  near  ninety,  but  full  of  life  and 
energy.  She  told  me  she  was  going  to  England  in  a  few 
days  *  to  make  some  visits.'    Well  done,  ninety  !    I  took 

1  George  Vesey  of  Lucan,  who  married  Emily,  daughter  of  the 
Right  Hon.  David  La  Touche. 

8  Formerly  the  home  of  Lord  and  Lady  Pery.  Mrs.  Calvert's 
little  daughter  died  there  in  1794,  and  the  family  gave  it  up  shortly 
afterwards. 

3  Jane  Vesey,  youngest  daughter  of  Lord  Knapton,  married  1776 
Sir  Robert  Staples,  Bart.,  of  Dunmore,  Queen's  County.    She  died  1822. 

4  Daughter  of  Lady  Pery  by  her  first  marriage. 

5  Lady  Rossmore  was  daughter  of  John  Murray,  and  married 
General  Robert  Cuninghame,  who  was  created  Baron  Rossmore  1796. 
She  d.s.p.,  and  the  peerage  devolved  upon  her  nephew,  Warner  William 
Westenra. 


i822]  "DEATH  HAS  FORGOTTEN  ME"  365 

leave  at  last  of  my  dear  Aunt,  I  fear  for  ever.  She  was  so 
affectionate  and  kind  to  me,  it  quite  went  to  my  heart. 

11  Penrhyn  Arms,  near  Bangor,  July  31st. — We  crossed 
over  this  morning  in  the  Meteor  and  had  an  excellent 
passage  of  seven  hours.  I  sat  on  deck  the  whole  time  and 
amused  myself  talking  to  the  Captain  and  some  acquaint- 
ance I  made  aboard.  I  am  so  happy  and  thankful  to  be  on 
this  side  of  the  water  ! 

"  Hunsdon  House,  Aug.  3rd. — Here  we  are,  the  Lord  be 
praised  and  found  all  well,  and  in  transports  at  seeing  us. 

"  Aug.  6th. — I  have  been  very  busy  all  day  packing 
and  preparing  to  set  out  tomorrow  for  London  on  our 
way  to  the  Isle  of  Wight.  We  shall  not  return  for  a  long 
time  as  we  mean  to  go  from  there  to  winter  at  Sidmouth." 

This  was  far  from  being  the  last  entry  in  Mrs.  Calvert's 
Journal,  which  she  continued  to  write  with  more  or  less 
regularity  for  at  least  twenty-five  years  longer. 

During  her  husband's  last  illness  she  wrote  : 

"  The  powers  of  his  mind  are  gradually  declining.  He 
enjoys  nothing,  and  cannot  move  without  help — a 
joyless  existence,  and  I  can  do  nothing.  The  Lord's 
will  be  done." 

Mr.  Calvert  died  on  April  23,  1841,  from  softening  of 
the  brain.  His  wife  paid  the  penalty  of  extreme  old  age 
by  surviving  most  of  those  she  loved  best.  A  pathetic 
entry  in  her  Journal  records  her  last  interview  with 
her  sister  at  Boulogne. 

"  We  were  mutually  rejoiced  and  yet  overcome  at 
meeting.  Alas  !  I  cannot  conceal  from  myself  the  fact 
that  we  shall  not  often — if  ever — meet  again." 

Lady  Ranfurly  died  suddenly  in  November,  1839. 
Mrs.  Calvert,  who  lived  nearly  twenty  years  longer,  used 
to  say  that  Death  had  forgotten  her.  Hunsdon  House 
had  been  sold,  owing  to  family  reverses,  and  she  lived 


366    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY   [1822 

for  the  most  part  at  30  Cavendish  Square.  It  was  during 
one  of  his  frequent  visits  to  her  there  that  her  favourite 
son  Felix  died  after  a  short  illness. 

Bitter  as  was  this  sorrow,  Mrs.  Calvert  must,  at  her 
great  age,  have  been  consoled  by  the  thought  that  their 
separation  could  not  be  a  very  long  one.  She  passed 
away,  less  than  two  years  later,  on  February  22nd, 
1859,  aged  ninety-two. 

Though  she  was  not  fond  of  her  native  country  and 
never  went  there  if  she  could  help  it,  Mrs.  Calvert  was 
nevertheless  a  typical  Irishwoman — impetuous,  warm- 
hearted, and  holding  up  the  bright  example  of  an  abso- 
lutely pure,  good  life  to  a  society  whose  morals  left  very 
much  to  be  desired.  Her  habit  of  hasty  speech  remained 
with  her  to  her  dying  day — and  her  young  relations  were 
not  a  little  afraid  of  her  in  consequence. 

"  What  do  you  mean  by  lolling  so  in  your  chair  ?  " 
she  said  sharply  to  one  of  her  granddaughters.  "  Do  you 
know  that  my  great-uncle  made  the  grand  tour  in  his 
own  carriage,  and  during  the  whole  time  he  never  once 
leant  back  !  " 

On  another  occasion,  when  a  little  grandniece1  meekly 
asked  for  a  shilling  subscription  towards  some  charity, 
the  answer  was,  "  No,  my  dear,  certainly  not !  I  never 
encourage  children  to  beg,  I  call  it  shocking  and  deplor- 
able." 

The  victim  related  this  little  episode  over  sixty  years 
afterwards,  being  then  quite  an  old  woman  herself.  So 
true  is  it  that  the  remembrance  of  a  snub  takes  deep 
root  in  the  memory,  and  abides  there  long  after  kind 
words  and  generous  deeds  are  forgotten. 

1  Susan  Euphemia  Knox, 


APPENDIX 


APPENDIX 


I.   TESTAMENT  OF  LOUIS  XVI 

IN  the  name  of  the  most  Holy  Trinity — the  Father, 
the  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  To-day,  the  25th  of 
December  1792,  I,  Louis  XVI  by  name,  King  of 
France,  having  been  for  four  months  shut  up  with 

my  family  in  the  tower  of  the  Temple  at  Paris,  by 
those  who  were  my  subjects,  and  deprived  of  all  inter- 
course whatever,  even  with  my  family,  since  the  10th  of 
month  ;  further,  being  implicated  in  a  process,  from 
which,  owing  to  the  passions  of  men,  it  is  impossible  to 
see  the  issue,  and  for  which  there  is  no  pretext  or  plea  in 
any  existing  law — having  no  witness  to  my  thoughts, 
and  none  to  whom  I  can  address  myself  save  God  ;  I 
declare,  here  in  His  presence,  my  last  wishes.  I  leave  my 
soul  to  God,  my  Creator.  I  pray  him  to  receive  it  in 
mercy,  not  to  judge  it  by  my  merits,  but  by  those  of  our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  offered  Himself  a  sacrifice  to 
God  his  Father,  for  men,  however  hardened  in  sin,  and 
for  me  the  chief  of  sinners. 

I  die  in  the  communion  of  Our  Holy  Mother  the  Church, 
Catholic,  Apostolic,  and  Roman,  who  derives  her  powers 
in  an  uninterrupted  succession  from  St.  Peter,  to  whom 
they  were  intrusted  by  Jesus  Christ.  I  believe  firmly,  and 
I  confess  to  all  that  is  contained  in  the  symbol  and  com- 
mandments of  God  and  the  Church,  the  sacraments  and 
the  mysteries  which  the  church  teaches,  and  has  always 
taught :  I  have  never  pretended  to  make  myself  a  judge 
of  the  different  modes  of  explaining  the  dogmas  which 
distract  the  Church  of  Christ,  but  I  have  ever  bowed, 

2  b  369 


370     AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY 

and,  if  God  accords  me  life,  will  ever  continue  to  bow, 
to  the  decisions  which  the  ecclesiastical  authorities  of  our 
Holy  Catholic  Church  give,  and  will  give,  conformably 
to  the  discipline  of  the  church,  as  practised  since  the  time 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  pity  with  all  my  heart  our  brethren  who  may  be  in 
error ;  but  I  do  not  pretend  to  judge  them,  and  I  love 
them  all  not  the  less  in  Jesus  Christ,  with  that  charity 
which  Christianity  enjoins  ;  and  I  pray  God  to  pardon 
all  my  sins  :  I  have  sought  rigorously  to  examine  them, 
to  hate  them,  and  to  humble  myself  in  His  presence. 
Not  being  able  to  avail  myself  of  the  ministry  of  a  catholic 
priest,  I  pray  God  to  receive  this  my  confession,  and, 
above  all,  my  profound  repentance  for  having  put  my 
name  (although  against  my  will)  to  acts  which  may  be 
contrary  to  the  discipline  and  belief  of  the  catholic  church, 
to  which  I  am  ever  in  heart  sincerely  united.  I  pray 
God  to  accept  my  fixed  intention,  if  he  grants  me  life,  to 
avail  myself  as  soon  as  possible  of  the  ministry  of  a 
catholic  priest,  to  confess  to  him  all  my  sins,  and  receive 
the  penitential  sacrament. 

I  pray  all  those  I  may  have  offended  inadvertently  (for 
I  cannot  call  to  mind  having  wittingly  offended  any  one), 
or  those  to  whom  I  may  have  afforded  a  bad  example,  or 
scandalised,  to  pardon  me  the  evil  which  they  think  I 
may  have  done  them. 

I  pray  all  persons  having  charity,  to  unite  their  prayers 
to  mine  for  the  pardon  of  my  sins. 

I  pardon,  from  the  heart,  all  those  who,  without  cause 
given  by  me,  have  become  my  enemies  ;  and  I  pray  God  to 
pardon  them,  as  well  as  those  who,  stimulated  by  a  false, 
ill-directed  zeal,  have  done  me  much  evil. 

I  commend  to  God  my  wife  and  children,  my  sister, 
my  aunts,  my  brothers,  and  all  those  connected  with  me 
by  blood,  or  other  ties  :  I  pray  God,  in  an  especial 
manner,  to  look  down  with  mercy  on  my  wife,  my 
children,  and  my  sister,  who  have  so  long  suffered  with 
me — to  sustain  them  by  His  grace,  if  they  are  about  to 
lose  me,  as  long  as  they  remain  in  this  perishable  world  : 


APPENDIX  371 

I  recommend  my  children  to  my  wife ;  I  have  never 
doubted  her  maternal  tenderness. 

I  recommend  her,  above  all,  to  make  them  good 
Christians  and  honest  men  ;  to  bring  them  up  to  look 
upon  the  splendours  of  this  world  (if  they  are  con- 
demned to  have  experience  of  them)  as  only  a  danger- 
ous and  perishable  good,  and  to  turn  their  thoughts  to  the 
solid  and  enduring  glory  of  eternity.  I  pray  my  sister  to 
continue  her  tenderness  to  my  children,  and  to  take  their 
mother's  place  if  they  should  have  the  misfortune  to  lose 
her. 

I  pray  my  wife  to  forgive  me  all  the  evils  she  suffers 
for  my  sake,  and  any  vexations  I  may  have  caused  her 
since  our  union  ;  and  she  may  be  assured  that  I  remember 
nothing  against  her,  if  she  imagines  that  she  thinks  she 
has  anything  with  which  to  reproach  herself. 

I  enjoin  upon  my  children,  very  warmly,  next  to  their 
duty  to  their  God,  which  must  take  precedence  of  every- 
thing, to  be  always  united  to  each  other,  submissive  to 
and  obedient  to  their  mother,  and  grateful  for  all  her 
care  of  them,  and  in  memory  of  me.  I  pray  to  look 
upon  my  sister  as  a  second  mother. 

I  enjoin  upon  my  son,  if  he  has  the  misfortune  to  become 
king,  to  remember  that  he  must  devote  himself  entirely 
to  the  happiness  of  his  fellow  citizens  ;  that  he  must 
forget  all  hatreds  and  resentments,  and  particularly 
everything  that  concerns  the  misfortunes  and  annoyances 
that  I  suffer  ;  that  he  can  only  insure  the  happiness  of 
his  people  by  reigning  according  to  the  laws ;  but,  at  the 
same  time,  that  a  king  cannot  make  himself  respected, 
and  do  the  good  his  heart  wills,  unless  he  has  the  necessary 
authority  ;  and  that  otherwise  being  cramped  in  his 
operations,  and  inspiring  no  respect,  he  is  more  hurtful 
than  useful. 

I  recommend  my  son  to  befriend  all  those  who  have 
shown  attachment  to  me,  as  far  as  circumstances  may 
give  him  the  power  to  do  so  ;  to  consider  that  it  is  a 
sacred  debt  that  I  have  contracted  towards  the  children 
or  relations  of  those  who  have  died  for  me,  and  also  to 


372    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY 

those  who  have  suffered  in  my  cause.  I  know  that  there 
are  several  persons  who  are  attached  to  me  who  have  not 
behaved  towards  me  as  they  ought  to  have  done,  and  who 
have  ever  shown  ingratitude ;  but  I  pardon  them — (often, 
in  the  hour  of  trouble  and  disturbance,  a  man  is  not  his 
own  master) — and  I  request  my  son  only  to  consider  their 
misfortunes.  I  should  like  here  to  testify  my  gratitude 
to  those  who  have  shown  a  real  and  disinterested  attach- 
ment to  me  :  on  the  one  hand,  if  I  was  sensibly  affected 
by  the  ingratitude  and  disloyalty  of  those  who  had  met 
with  nothing  but  kindness  from  me,  they  themselves, 
their  relations,  or  friends  ;  on  the  other,  I  have  ex- 
perienced the  consolation  of  seeing  the  attachment  and 
disinterested  devotion  which  many  have  shown  me. 
I  beg  them  to  accept  my  thanks. 

In  the  present  position  of  affairs,  I  should  fear  to 
compromise  them  if  I  spoke  more  explicitly ;  but  I 
recommend  to  my  son  the  care  of  discovering  and  reward- 
ing them. 

I  should  think,  however,  that  I  was  calumniating  the 
feelings  of  the  nation,  if  I  did  not  openly  recommend  to 
my  son  MM.  de  Chamilly  and  Hue,  whose  real  attachment 
to  me  induced  them  to  shut  themselves  up  with  me  in 
this  miserable  abode,  of  which  they  expected  to  fall 
victims.  I  recommend  also  to  him  Clery,  with  whose  at- 
tentions since  he  has  been  with  me  I  have  every  reason 
to  be  thankful :  as  it  is  he  who  has  remained  with  me 
to  the  end,  I  request  the  gentlemen  of  the  Commune  to 
give  him  my  clothes,  my  books,  my  watch,  my  purse, 
and  the  other  trifling  effects  which  have  been  left  at  the 
disposal  of  the  Commune. 

Again,  I  pardon  most  willingly  those  who  have  acted 
as  my  guard,  the  bad  treatment  and  discomforts  which 
they  thought  it  necessary  to  inflict  upon  me.  I  have  met 
with  some  amiable  and  compassionate  hearts  ;  may  they 
enjoy  that  tranquillity  of  mind  which  their  train  of 
thought  ought  to  give  them. 

I  beg  MM.  de  Malesherbes,  Tronchet,  and  de  Seze, 
to    receive    my    thanks,    and    this    expression    of    my 


APPENDIX  373 

feeling,  for  all  the  trouble  and  pains  they  took  on  my 
account. 

I  finish,  by  declaring  before  God,  and  ready  to  appear 
in  His  presence,  that  I  cannot  reproach  myself  with  any 
one  of  the  crimes  which  have  been  laid  to  my  charge. 

Made  in  duplicate  at  the  Tower  of  the  Temple,  the 
25th  December  1792. 

Louis. 


II 


Letter  from  William  Gerard  Hamilton,  Chancellor  of 
the  Exchequer  in  Ireland,  Member  of  the  Privy 
Council  there,  Secretary  to  the  Earls  of  Halifax  and 
Northumberland,  and  known  as  "  Single  speech 
Hamilton  "  to  Edmond  Sexten  Pery,  Speaker  to 
the  Irish  House  of  Commons,  afterwards  Viscount 
Pery. 

"  Privy  Garden, 

"  November  6th,  1762. 

"  My  dear  Pery, 

"  Our  friend  Hutchinson,  who  knows  that  every- 
thing which  promotes  your  happiness  must  necessarily 
contribute  to  my  pleasure,  has  by  this  last  packet  in- 
formed me  of  your  marriage.  It  did  not  surprise  me, 
because  it  is  just  that  match  which  they  (who)  wish  your 
happiness  the  most,  which  are  those  who  know  you  best, 
have  long  predestined  for  you. 

"  Permit  me,  my  dear  Pery,  to  congratulate  you  both, 
and  to  assure  you  that  no  one  ever  can,  upon  this  occa- 
sion, join  more  sincerely,  or  partake  more  largely,  in  the 
general  joy  of  your  friends.  It  is  needless  for  any  of  us 
to  entertain  the  least  degree  of  solicitude  for  your  increase 
of  happiness  ;  that  mutual  affection  and  mutual  merits 
have  infallibly  secured  to  you  for  the  present,  and  left 
those  who  are  the  most  anxious  for  your  welfare  nothing 
to  wish  you  but  the  long  and  uninterrupted  continuance 
of  it.  You  must  not,  however,  think  that  my  regard  for 
you  has  stifled  all  my  humanity  for  others,  or  that  with 
so  much  reason  for  congratulation,  there  is  no  cause  for 
condolence.     I   cannot  help  compassionating  the  poor 

374 


APPENDIX  375 

Macartney,  who  must  now  add  you  to  the  long  list  of  her 
unfaithful  lovers,  and  who  might  really  be  tempted  to  do 
something  desperate,  if  at  the  marriage  from  Lucan,  as  at 
the  marriage  in  Gallilea,  the  water  was  turned  into  wine, 
and  the  Liffey  only  rolled  with  Madeira. 

"In  the  meantime  I  am  endeavouring  to  draw  something 
selfish  from  the  subject  of  your  joy  and  her  sorrow.  I 
flatter  myself  that  taking  a  wife  is  a  prelude  to  taking  a 
place,  and  I  think  that  Mrs.  Pery,  after  having  got  the 
better  of  your  private  continence,  may  soften  perhaps  the 
rigours  of  your  public  virtue  instead  of  imitating  the 
example  of  Mrs.  Crook  Perceval,  as  Lord  Clarendon  says 
it  was  she,  and  not  her  husband,  who  gave  judgement 
against  the  King  in  the  case  of  Ship  Money.  Whether 
Mrs.  Pery  would  act  like  the  lady  is  uncertain  ;  but  I 
think  it  is  rather  clear  that  you  would  have  decided  like 
the  judge.  In  short,  there  is  something  that  tells  me 
that  you  will  be  always  a  little  untractable  abroad  and 
always  extremely  pliable  at  home. 

"  There  have  been  certain  times  of  my  life  in  which 
I  have  not  been  always  without  thoughts  of  the  same 
marriage.  But,  often  as  I  have  strove  I  could  never  bring 
my  mind  to  it.  I  am  now  determined  to  defer  it  till  we 
meet,  if  that  is  ever  to  happen.  Then  we  will  compare 
notes,  and,  in  the  meantime  you,  my  dear  Pery,  shall 
solicit  happiness  in  constancy,  and  I  will  court  in  it  variety. 
Whatever  may  be  my  situation,  you  will  always  have 
what  you  must  always  be  entitled  to — the  warmest  good 
wishes  and  esteem  of  your  most   faithful   affectionate 

fnend'  "  W.  G.  Hamilton." 

"  Edmond  Sexten  Pery  was  born  in  1719  at  Limerick, 
in  which  town  his  ancestors  had  for  many  generations 
held  important  positions.  In  1745,  he  was  called  to  the 
Bar  in  Ireland,  and  acquired  much  reputation  as  an 
acute  and  upright  lawyer.  He  was  elected  in  175 1  to  serve 
in  the  Parliament  of  Ireland  as  one  of  the  representatives 
of  the  town  of  Wicklow.     In  the  ensuing  Parliamentary 


376    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY 

contest,  relative  to  the  appropriation  of  the  surplus  in 
the  Irish  Exchequer,  Pery  took  the  side  of  the  Govern- 
ment. He  acted  as  teller  for  the  Ayes  on  17th  Decem- 
ber, 1753,  when  the  vote  was  taken  on  the  altered 
Money  Bill.  The  '  Patriots,'  headed  by  the  Speaker, 
Henry  Boyle,  and  Anthony  Malone,  Prime  Sergeant, 
carried  the  rejection  of  that  Bill  by  a  majority  of  five  ; 
Pery  is  said  soon  after  to  have  partially  quitted  the 
Government  Parliamentary  ranks,"  etc. — Extract  from 
papers  in  possession  of  Lord  Emly,  Tervoe,  Co.  Limerick. 
The  letters  include  correspondence  with  Lords  North, 
Townshend,  Longford,  Hillsborough,  Bristol,  Nugent, 
Lucan,  Buckingham,  Beauchamp ;  Edmund  Burke, 
George  Germaine,  J.  Jenkinson,  W.  Knox. 


Extract  from  The  Hertford  Mercury,  Saturday, 
March  14th,  1857. 

"  The  Late  Lieutenant-General  Calvert. 

"  We  recorded  amongst  our  obituary  notices  last  week, 
the  death  of  Lieutenant-General  Calvert,  c.B.,  which  took 
place  at  his  residence,  30,  Cavendish  Square,  on  the 
3rd  instant.  The  deceased  was  the  eldest  son  of  the  late 
Nicolson  Calvert,  Esq.,  of  Hunsdon  (who  for  many  years 
represented  the  Borough,1  and  subsequently  the  County 
of  Hertford  in  Parliament),  by  Frances,  second  daughter 
of  Edmond  Sexten,  Viscount  Pery,  of  Newton  Pery, 
County  Limerick,  who,  having  filled  the  Speaker's  chair 
of  the  Commons  of  Ireland  from  1771  to  1785,  received 
upon  his  retirement,  the  unanimous  thanks  of  the  House, 
and  at  the  express  solicitation  of  that  branch  of  the  legis- 
lature, was  elevated  to  the  peerage  December  30th,  1785. 
Lieutenant-General  Felix  Calvert  was  one  of  the  rapidly 
diminishing  number  of  those  gallant  veterans  who  won 
their  earliest  laurels  in  the  Peninsula.  He  entered  the 
service  in  1807,  and  served  with  the  52nd  in  the  expe- 
dition to  Sweden  in  1808.     In  1808-9,  he  was  in  the 

1  Seven  Parliaments. 


APPENDIX  377 

Peninsula,  and  was  serving  under  Sir  John  Moore  on  the 
occasion  of  the  retreat  to  Corunna.  Subsequently  he 
joined  the  Walcheren  expedition,  and  was  one  of  the 
fortunate  few  who  escaped  from  those  pestilential  swamps 
which  were  so  fatal  to  so  many  of  our  brave  soldiers.  In 
April,  1810,  he  was  appointed  Aide-de-Camp  to  Lord 
Lynedoch,  and  joined  that  General  at  Cadiz,  then  be- 
sieged by  the  French.  He  was  also  present  at  the  Battles 
of  Barossa  and  Vittoria  and  at  the  attacks  on,  and  the 
capture  of,  San  Sebastian.  In  1814  he  accompanied  the 
29th  Regiment  to  America,  and  was  present  at  the  taking 
of  Casleue,  and  the  different  American  Settlements  in 
the  Bay  of  Fundy.  He  was  subsequently  promoted  to 
a  Majority,  and  selected,  as  a  tribute  to  his  merits  as  an 
officer,  to  command  the  Provisional  Battalion  at  Ports- 
mouth. In  the  campaign  of  1815,  he  served  with  the 
32nd,  and  was  present  at  the  Battles  of  Quatre  Bras  and 
Waterloo.  He  received  the  war  medal  with  three  clasps, 
for  Barossa,  Vittoria,  and  San  Sebastian,  and  immediately 
after  the  Battle  of  Waterloo,  was  promoted  for  his  dis- 
tinguished services  there,  and  for  those  rendered  at 
Quatre  Bras  on  the  16th  of  June,  1815. 

"  Of  Lieutenant-General  Calvert's  conduct  in  the 
field,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  more  than  that,  belonging 
to  a  time  which  gave  many  opportunities  for  the  display 
of  those  qualities  which  are  necessary  in  the  soldier, 
each  step  taken  by  him  in  the  service  was  a  step  won 
by  his  bravery  and  conduct.  His  commissions  date  as 
follows  : 

"  Ensign,  October  1st,  1807. 
"  Lieutenant,  September  15th,  1808. 
"  Captain,  June  27th,  1811. 
"  Major,  October  27th,  1814. 
k   Lieutenant-Colonel,  June  18th,  1815. 
"  Colonel  (of  the  72nd),  January  10th,  1837. 
'  Major-General,  November  9th,  1846. 
'•  lieutenant-General,  June  20th,  1854. 
"  Colonel  of  the  90th  Light  Infantry,  June  14th,  1853. 


378    AN  IRISH  BEAUTY  OF  THE  REGENCY 

M  It  is  worthy  of  remark  that  Lieutenant-General 
Calvert  never  purchased  a  step  in  the  service. 

"  In  private  life,  Lieutenant-General  Calvert  was  dis- 
tinguished by  his  urbanity,  and  warm-heartedness.  He 
took  no  very  active  part  in  public  affairs.  It  was  amongst 
his  family  and  friends  that  the  qualities  were  conspicuous, 
which  endeared  him  to  all  that  came  in  contact  with  him  ; 
he  was  dutiful  as  a  son,  affectionate  as  a  brother,  hearty 
as  a  friend,  and  indulgent  and  considerate  as  a  master. 
He  was  ever  desirous  that  the  poor  in  his  neighbourhood 
should  find  employment,  and  many  of  the  improvements 
on  the  land  in  his  own  occupation  have  been  made  with 
this  object  alone.  In  this,  and  in  other  ways,  his  sympathy 
was  always  at  the  command  of  those  who  needed  it,  for 
he  never  hesitated  to  recognize  a  well-merited  claim  by 
anyone  whose  case  came  under  his  notice.  It  has  always 
been  a  matter  of  regret  that  he  mixed  so  little  in  country 
business  on  public  occasion,  for  his  taste  for  reading  was 
great  and  varied,  and  the  knowledge  he  acquired  was 
tempered  by  great  experience  of  the  world,  by  sound 
judgment,  and  by  great  common  sense.  On  more  than 
one  occasion,  he  was  solicited  to  allow  himself  to  be  put 
in  nomination  as  a  candidate  for  the  representation  of  his 
native  county,  which  had  been  for  some  years  repre- 
sented by  his  father,  but  he  preferred  the  retirement  of 
domestic  life,  after  his  long  and  arduous  military  services, 
to  the  cares  and  honours  of  a  seat  in  Parliament.  From 
the  time  of  his  return  to  England  at  the  close  of  the  war, 
until  the  death  of  his  father  in  April,  1841,  Lieutenant- 
General  Calvert  resided  at  the  family  seat,  Hunsdon 
House.  After  that  event,  the  paternal  mansion  was 
closed,  and  the  General  took  up  his  residence  at  Bonning- 
ton's,  a  seat  in  the  neighbourhood,  paying,  however, 
occasional  visits  to  London.  It  was  on  one  of  these  occa- 
sions that  he  was  seized  with  the  illness  which  terminated 
in  his  death,  in  the  67th  year  of  his  age,  and  the  50th 
of  his  military  service.  The  remains  of  the  deceased 
General  were  interred  at  Hunsdon  on  Wednesday  last. 
In  compliance  with  his  special  request,  the  funeral  was 


APPENDIX  379 

a  walking  one  ;  not  a  single  carriage  was  allowed  to 
follow.  The  followers  were  the  two  brothers  of  the 
deceased,  Mr.  Edmond,  and  Mr.  William  Calvert,  and 
his  immediate  male  relatives.  The  funeral  service  was 
taken  by  the  Rev.  R.  W.  Thackeray,  the  rector.  The 
esteem  in  which  the  deceased  General  was  held,  was 
shown  by  the  feeling  displayed  on  this  melancholy  occa- 
sion. Throughout  the  day,  in  the  adjoining  villages,  the 
shops  and  houses  were  closed,  and  the  road  along  which 
the  funeral  procession  passed  was  thronged  from  the  resi- 
dence of  the  deceased,  to  the  Church,  a  distance  of  more 
than  a  mile,  by  persons  of  all  classes,  who  were  anxious  to 
witness  the  mournful  closing  of  the  grave  over  the  remains 
of  one  who  had  so  thoroughly  secured  the  regard  and 
esteem  of  his  neighbours,  and  wished  to  pay  their  last 
tribute  of  respect  to  his  memory. 

"  General  Calvert  was  never  married.  He  is  succeeded 
in  his  estates  by  his  next  brother,  Mr.  Edmond  Calvert, 
of  Hunsdonbury,  the  chief  partner  in  the  well-known 
firm  of  Felix  Calvert  and  Co. 

"  Obituary  Notice. 

u  On  the  3rd  instant  at  30,  Cavendish  Square,  Lieu- 
tenant-General  Felix  Calvert,  c.B.,  Colonel  of  the  90th 
Regiment,  in  his  67th  year." 


i  Calvert  of  Hunsdon=f  Hon.  Frances  Pery. 


Edmond  Pery  Sevten  Calvert  F.li/.abeih,  dau.  of 
of  Furneaux  Pelham,  Genl.  Sir  John 
Herts.      Ob.  1S66.  Campbell. 


Herts,      Oh.  num.,  1910. 


:  Calvert=p Richard  Ker. 


Flora  Louisa  Calvert=CoI.  , 


Rivers  Ker.      (jt-rv..isc  Ker.     Si.  John  Ker.       Walter  Ker.     Ma^blu,    Ka. 


Violet  Cecil  Tipping—  Egerlo,,  Leigh.  Ileku    Au^usl.i  Tipping        Wthu. 

Irwin 


Cecil  Egerton  Leigh.  Cynthia  Egerton  Leigh. 


Stephen  King-Hall.  Louisa  King-Hall.  Magdalen  King-Ha 


-  Thomas  Rives  Hawker.  Arethusa 


Hawker- Edward  Egerton  Leigh.  Cecily  Pauline 


Isabella  Calvert  =  Sir  James  Matthew  Stronge 
(2nd  Baronet),  d.c.l. 


Lavini.i  Iram  ,,  Calvert, 


1  James  Matthew  Stronge     Selina  Elizabeth  Nugent.  Sir  John  Calvert.  Strange      i.,,,ly  dargaret  Caulfield.  Charles  Walter  Stronge,  u.i: 


Sit    lames  IJem  •■  Stronge      Etiiel   Margaret  I 
(5th  Baronet.) 


Francis  Wm.  Stronge     Maria  Elizabeth  Fraser.  Elinor  M.  Stronge.  Frances  Anne  Stronge. 

(Minister  at  Bogota.) 


James  M.  Stronge.  Zoe  Edith  Stronge.  Daphne  Helen  Stronge.  Rose  Ethel  Stronge.  fessy  Stronge, 


Edmond   Robert    Hands  Stronge      Charlotte  Ncwmai:  Henderson. 


Waltei   Lot!     m  Strange,                  Charle-  Ed.  Sinclair  Stronge  =y  Marion  IliffI 
Capt.  Royal  Inr     idling  Fusiliers.  ) 


r.udnii'   \l.u-i..n  H...I.H-L. 


Stronge  =  Elinor  Louisa  Maude.  Edward  O.  Fortescue  Stronge  =  Maude  Bailey. 

Maxwell  du  Pre  Stronge. 


Ethel  Mary  Stronge-   Capt.  Arthur  Percy  Richardson. 


Evelyn  Frances  Stronge=Hon.  Edward  Hewitt. 


Edith  Mary  Beatrice. 


Mervyn  Stronge  RidianLon. 


Maxwell  Du  Pre  Stronge=Jane  Colclough  Goff. 

Edmond   Menry  Stuart   Nugent      t  irace  Conant. 


■  rancis  Helen  Stronge ~ Thomas  Vesey  Nuj 


•aheha  Frances  Nugent. 


ii   Edward  W.  Verner      Agnes  I 

(5th  Baronet.) 


Hubert  Vemer  =  Marion  Maberley. 


Florence  W.  Verner. 


Label  D.   Verner. 


Edward  D.  Wingfield  Verner.       John  W.  Verner.      Ruth  W.  Verner.      Betty  Verner.     Monica  Ve  1 


uline  Caroline  Stronge^ Capt.  Win.   M  Clintock-Bunbury. 
Iruen.  John  Wm.  McClintock-Bunbury  = 


Geoffrey  McClintock-Runbury.     d.s.p. 


:-Bunbury=Ll.-CoL  Forrester  Colvin.     Hon.  Emily  McClintock-Bunbury  ■  -  Major  Henry  D.  Bramwell. 


Felix  Beale  Colvin,  d.  1910.       Mary  Ka 


Henry  McClintock  B.  Bramwell. 


Christopher  T.  Dalgety 


Burl  -.-u  1  111  indie  1  J.dgct)  . 


Catherine  Brownlow  Stronge=j=Lt.-Col.  Gwrge  McClintock. 


i  Collins.         Coiw.uice   .M,ClintoL-L      Henry  C.   Im 


Georgina  M.  McClintock.         Isabella  McClintnd.. 


Arthur  George  McClintock  =  Millicent  Toomey.        John  H.  J.  McClintock=Mary  Torkington.      Robert  Le  P.  MtCIintock.        Edward  S.  McClintock.      Ronald  St.  C.  McClintock.      Gladys  McClintock. 
'    (Capt.  sth  Lancers.) 


Mary  Camline  l-'elicia  Cal 


Harriet  Diana  C.ilveri  -  Kcv.  —  Thompson. 


Sybil  Mary  Warre.        Eleanor  C.  Felicia  Warre.      Agnes  Margt.  Warre.        Florence  Pauline  Warre. 


Ileiiir  r'hailes  Warre  =  —  Apperley.     Amy;i.  Wi.rr 


Roger  Warre.        Edmond  Mi* 


Edmond  Walter  Saville  Foljambe.        Robert  Francis  Thornhagh  Foljambe.       Mary  Paulinr  Foljambe.         Rachel  Emily  Foljambe.        Avis  Dora  Folja, 


Elinor  Frances  Warre      Rev.  George  Slade 


Florence  Jane  Warre. 


Margaret   l-.ibella  W.i.re. 


Edward  J„lln  Warre  Slade  =  Florence  Saunders. 
(M.v.o.,  Admiral  R.N.) 


-  Josephine  Young. 


•  Slade.        Madeli 


b^Wa, 


Label!.'   Sl.nl  •■  Gerald   Gordon  Slade. 


INDEX 


INDEX 


Abercorn,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of,  4 

Abercorn,  Earls  of,  4 

Abercorn,  7th  Earl  of,  46  note,  361 

note 
Abercorn,  John  James,  1st  Marquess 

of,  children  of,  114  note,  135,  215, 

224  note ;  death  of,  307  ;  marriages 

of,  46,  48  note 
Aberdeen,  William,  2nd  Earl  of,  48, 

296  note 
Abbot,  Mr.,  elected  Speaker,  77 
Abbotsford,    Lydia    White   at,    213 

note 
Abingdon,  4th  Earl  of,  86  note 
Acklom,  Esther,  her  engagement  to 

Mr.  Madocks,  188,  192,  207;  her 

engagement  to  Thomas  Knox,  177— 

82  ;  her  marriage  to  Lord  Althorp, 

218,   220;    letter  from,   121,  122; 

proves  herself  a  flirt,  70,  72,  77,  83, 

90,  92,  134 
Acklom,  Mrs.,  320;  visit  to,  245 
Acklom,  Richard,  70,  122,  218  note  ; 

death  of,  192  ;  disagrees  with  Mr. 

Knox,  179 
Acropolis,  Athens,  model  of  Covent 

Garden  Theatre,  143  note 
Adam,    rebuilds     Hamilton     Place, 

96 
Adare,    Lord,    161.      See    Earl    of 

Dunraven 
Addington,  Henry, as  Premier,  13,  15; 

created  Viscount  Sidmouth,  27 
Adelaide,    Queen.     See   Duchess  of 

Clarence 
Adelphi  Theatre,  194 
Affleck,  Sir  Edmund  and  Lady,  41 

and  note 
Ailsa,  1st  Marquess  of,  31  note;  his 

son's  marriage,  217 
Ajax%  H. M.S.,  65 
Albany,  the,  95 


Albemarle,   Elizabeth,  Countess  of, 

38,41 

Albemarle,  William  Charles  Keppel, 
4th  Earl  of,  his  children,  349  ;  his 
marriage,  38  note,  361 ;  visit  to,  357 

Aldborough,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of, 
in  Paris,  295 

Aldborough,  John,  3rd  Earl  of,  his 
marriage,  295  note 

Aldenham  Abbey,  Herts,  355  note  ; 
visit  to,  1820,  346 

Alexander,  Dr.,  oculist,  342 

Alexander,  Emperor,  of  Russia,  57  ; 
at  Tilsit,  114;  his  attitude  to 
England,  93  ;  in  London,  219  note, 
223-5,  229  5  in  Paris,  219,  221, 
256  ;  makes  peace  with  Napoleon, 
79,80 

Alexandra  of  Prussia,  Princess,  318 
note 

Alfred,  H.M.S.,  120 

Alkmaar,  13  note 

Allan,  Maud,  135 

Allardyce,  Alexander,  217  note 

Allardyce,  Eleanor,  her  marriage  to 
Lord  Cassilis,  217,  221 

Alley,  the,  gambling  in,  65 

Allies,  the,  cross  the  Rhine,  214,  215  ; 
defeat  of,  217;  enter  Paris,  219, 
227  note,  256 

Almack's,  balls  at,  312,  316,  329, 
333.  340 

Alten,  General,  120 

Althorp,  John  Charles,  Viscount,  45  ; 
contests  Cambridge,  60 ;  his  mar- 
riage, 218,  220;  his  wife's  death, 
319,  320.     See  3rd  Earl  Spencer 

Althorp,  Esther,  Viscountess,  at  the 
Opera,  221  ;  her  illness  and  death, 
3i°»  3r9»  32°  J  presented  at  Court, 
247  ;  renewed  friendship  with,  245, 
246,  262.     See  Esther  Acklom 


383 


384 


INDEX 


Alvanley,  Lord,  72  note,  354  note 

Amelia,  Princess,  contracts  measles, 

95  ;  her  attachment  to  General  C; 

Fitzroy,  248  ;  her  illness  and  death, 

145,  151,  160,  161,  168,  169 

America,  war   with,   1812-14,    237, 

240,  243 
Ampney  Park,  349  note 
Amsterdam,  visit  to,  181 7,  303 
Ancaster,  Robert,  1st  Duke  of,  153 
Anderson,  Mrs.  Cecil,  353  ;  at  Huns- 
don,  346 
Andrews,  John,  89  note 
Anglesey,  1st  Marquess  of,  119  note, 

319  note  ;  creation  of,  340  note 
Angouleme,     Due    d',    joins     Lord 
Wellington,    216;     receives   Mrs. 
Calvert,  297 
Angouleme,  Duchesse  d\  at  the  Prince 
Regent's  ball,  128 ;   receives  Mrs. 
Calvert,  297 
Anguish,  Charlotte,  cured  by  magnet- 
ism and  warm  ale,  52 
Anguish,  Maria,  52 
Anguish,  Thomas,  193  note 
Annaly,  Henry,  Baron,  355  note 
Anson,  Anne,  Viscountess,  her  assem- 
bly, 3*7 
Anson,  Thomas,  Viscount,  317  note 
Antigua,  141 
Antiquary,  The,  340 
Antwerp,    106    note,    255  ;    French 
troops  in,  140,  141  ;  visits  to,  181 7, 

277,  304 
Apperson,    G.    L.,    Bygone   London 

Life,  214  note 
Apreece,  Mr.,  309  note 
Arblay,  Madame  d',  her  Journal,  116 

note 
Arbuthnot,  Major,  91 
Archer,  Mr.,  178 

Architect  and  Reporter,  The,  177  note 
Argenteau,  Comte  d',  290 
Argyle  Rooms,  265,  345 
Arlington,  Lady,  visit  from,  103 
Armagh,  Archdeacon  of.      See  Sir  J. 

Robinson 
Arniston,  177  note  ;  treasures  at,  128 

note 
Arniston,  James  Dundas,  1st  Lord, 

128  note 
Arnold,  Miss,  of  Norwich,  116  note 
Artaxerxes,  258  note 
Arthur's  Club,  London,  313 


Artois,  Comte  d',  297  note,  301  note. 

See  Charles  X 
Ascot  Races,  1814,  226 
Asgill,  Lady,  at  the  Pavilion,  238 ; 

her  sister,  246 
Ashbrook,  Emily,  Viscountess,  as  a 

harpist,  228,  329 
Ashbrook,  Henry,  4th  Viscount,  at 

dinner  with,  228 ;   his   marriage, 

329  note 
Ashe,  Benjamin,  267  note 
Assaye,  battle  of,  94  note 
Astley,  Lady,  her  ball,  345 
Astley,  Sir  Jacob,  his  marriage,  324 
Astley's,  London,  319,  331 
Aston,  Mrs.  Hervey,  at  the  Pavilion, 

204,  205 
Aston  Clinton,  94  note 
Astorga,  118 

Athole,  Marjory,  Duchess  of,  32 
Athole,  John,  4th  Duke  of,  marriage 

of,  32,  312  note 
Athole,  5th  Duke  of,  insanity  of,  312 
Athole,  6th  Duke  of,  145  note 
Attleborough,  357  note 
Auckland,   William,    1st   Lord,    86, 

186  note 
Auckland,    George,    2nd    Lord,    at 

Cassiobury,  269 ;  his  son's  death, 

153 

Augusta,  Princess,  33,  59  note ;  at 
Brighton,  351  ;  at  Carlton  House, 
233  ;  at  Court,  152,  224,  245,  344  ; 
her  absence  from  the  Regent's  ball, 

195 
"Auld  Robin  Gray,"  author  of,  43 

note,  92  note 
Aumont,  Duchesse  d',  300 
Austria,  Porte  of,  126 
Auxonne,  visit  to,  1817,  294 
Avocat  Chansonnier,  L\  214 
Aylesbury,  Augusta,  Countess  of,  103 

note 
Aylesbury,    Heneage,    5th   Earl   of, 

103  note  ;  in  Brussels,  276 
Ayston,  Rutlandshire,  146  note 

Babet,  loss  of  the,  13 

Badajos,  siege  of,  179 

Baden,  Grand  Duke  of,  his  marriage, 

284 
Baden,  Princess  Marie  of,  284  note 
Baden-Baden,  15  note  ;  visit  to,  1817, 

283-5 


INDEX 


385 


Bagot,   Mrs.,  Links  with  the  Past, 

261 
Bagshot  Park,  visit  to,  358 
Bailey,  Lady  Sarah,  at  the  Pavilion, 

204 
Baillie,  Joanna,  104  note 
Baillie,  Dr.  Matthew,  5  note,  104 
Baird,  Sir  David,  at  Lady  Cassia's', 

39  ;  his  career,  39  note,   127  note  ; 

his  marriage,    171  ;    in   Portugal, 

117;    takes    the    Cape    of    Good 

Hope,  62  note;    visit  from,   153; 

wounded  at    Corunna,    1 18,    119, 

127 
Balcarres,   James,    5th   Earl  of,   his 

children,  43  note,  76  note,  92  note, 

295  note 
Balcarres,  Lord  Lindsay  of,  77 
Balgonie,    David,   Baron,   at    dinner 

with,  217,  220  ;  his  tour  in  Greece, 

320.     See  10th  Earl  Leven 
Balgowan,  196 
Ballooning,  235,  302 
Baltimore,  44  note,  279  note  ;  assault 

on,  238  note 
Bandon  Bridge,  211  note 
Bangor,  Penrhyn  Arms,  365 
Bankes,  Mr.,  77 
Barcelona,  202 
Barker,  Edward,  50  note 
Barker,  Elizabeth,  94  note 
Barnard,  Andrew,  43  ;  death  of,  92 
Barnard,  Lady  Anne,  author  of  "Auld 

Robin  Gray,"  43,  92  note  ;  gives  a 

breakfast,  187 
Barnett,  Mrs.,  acts  Jane  Shore,  279 
Baron  Trench,  356 
Baronscourt,  135 
Barossa,  battle  of,  17 1-3 
Barrow,    Sir  John,   his   discoveries, 

313,  314 
Barry  more,  Earl  of,  219  note 
Barrymore  House,  219  note 
Basset,  Cecil,  212  note 
Bassewitz,  Comte  de,  visits  England, 

341 

Bath,  Abbey  Church,  tomb  of  Dr. 
Malthus  in,  144  ;  Hon.  Mrs.  Cal- 
vert married  at,  5  ;  St.  Catherine's, 
144;  visit  to,  1821,  359,  360 

Bath,  Thomas,  2nd  Marquess  of,  his 
family,  232  note,  316  note 

Bathe,  Sir  James  Wynne  de,  at  Lady 
Dunalley's,  212 


Bathurst,  Lady,  her  good  offices  for 
Lady  Sarah  Napier,  130 

Bathurst,  Lord,  entertains  the  Prince 
Regent,  248 

Bathurst,  Mrs.,  307;  her  assembly, 
308 

Bathurst,  Right  Rev.  Henry,  Bishop 
of  Norwich,  at  dinner  with,  306-8 

Battle,  recruiting  at,  129 

Battledore  and  shuttlecock,  259 

Bavay,  Felix  Calvert  at,  252 

Baxtown,  Co.  Kildare,  25  note 

Bazett,  Henry,  269  note 

Beadon,  Mrs.,  her  assemblies,  34, 
47,98 

Beauchamp,  Catherine,  Countess,  her 
balls,  265 

Beauchamp,  1st  Earl,  376  ;  his  mar- 
riage, 265  note 

Beaufort,  4th  Duke  of,  38,  77  note 

Beaufort,  5th  Duke  of,  his  sons,  84 
note,  296  note 

Beauharnais,  Emilie  de,  her  mar- 
riage, 260 

Beauharnais,  Eugene,  284 

Beauharnais,  Stephanie,  her  mar- 
riage, 284 

Beaujolais,  Due  de,  15,  16,  36 

Beaumont,  Colonel,  127 

Beaumont,  Mrs.,  at  dinner  with,  58  ; 
at  Wimbledon,  103  ;  her  balls,  159, 

343,  355 
Becher,   Sir  William,  his  marriage, 

250 
Beckford,  Susan,  marriage  of,  145 
Beckford,  William,  his  daughter,  39 

note 
Bedford,  Georgiana,  Duchess  of,  at 

Woburn   Abbey,    182  ;    at    dinner 

with,  78 ;  Mrs.  Calvert  on,  32 
Bedford,  John,  4th  Duke  of,  84  note 
Bedford,  John,  6th  Duke  of,  29,  32 

note,  103  ;  as  Lord  Lieutenant  of 

Ireland,  64 ;  at  his  son's  wedding, 

108 
Bedford,  Duke  of,  dines  with  Hon. 

T.  Knox,  78 ;  his  sheep-shearing, 

163 
Bedingfield,  Lady,  308  note 
Beechwood,  visit  to,  112 
Beggar's  Opera,  65  note,  258 
Belasyse,  Lady  Elizabeth,  21  note 
Belfast,  Felix  Calvert  at,  238 
Bellingham,  execution  of,  184,  185 


2C 


386 


INDEX 


Belmore,  Armar,  ist  Earl  of,  37  note 
Benson,  William,  38  note 
Berenger,  Captain  de,   his  trial  for 

fraud,  227  note 
Bergami,    his   relations  with   Queen 

Caroline,  346 
Bergenopzoom,  attack  on,  218 
Berkeley,  Colonel,  disinherited,  187. 

See  Earl  Fitzhardinge 
Berkeley,  Frederick,  5th  Earl,  mar- 
riage of,  187 
Berkeley  Chapel,   Sidney  Smith  at, 

127 
Bermingham,  William,  29  note 
Bernadotte,    Prince,    defeat   of,    52  ; 

deposes  Charles  XIII  of  Sweden, 

129  note 
Bernard,  Sir  Harry,  his  son's  death, 

121 
Berne,  visit  to,  18 17,  290-2 
Beiri,  Due  de,  assassination  of,  339  ; 

at  Cherbourg,  216,   220;  at  Mrs. 

Knox's,  199;  his  plate,  124  note; 

in  London,   15,   16,  36;  in  Paris, 

301 
Berri,   Duchesse   de,   in   Paris,  301, 

302,  339 
Bertie,  Hon.  Peregrine,  at  Firle,  86 
Bertie,  Lady  Caroline,  at  Firle,  85 
Bertie,  Lord  Vere,  153  note 
Bertie,  Mrs.,  at  Brighton,  215 
Bertrand,  General  and  Madame,  292 
Bessborough,  Earl  of,  45,  49 
Bexley,  Lord,  186  note 
Bianchi,   Madame,  at  the  Pavilion, 

204 
Bilboa,  Co.  Limerick,  333  note 
Billington,  Mrs.,  165 
Bingham,  Hon.  Lavinia.  .S^Countess 

Spencer 
Bingham,  Lady  Ann,  21 
Bingham,  Sir  Charles.     See  Earl  of 

Lucan 
Birmingham,  7 
Black  Forest,  the,  287 
Blackheath,  Princess  of  Wales  at,  74, 

102 
Blackwell,  Samuel,  at  Holkham,  349 
Blackwood,  201 

Blackwood,  Captain,  at  Trafalgar,  65 
Blackwood,  Lady,  at  Brighton,  352 
Blackwood,  Sir  Henry,  352  note 
Blackwood,  Sir  John,  352  note 
Bladensburg,  battle  of,  237 


Blake,  Mr.,  barber,  47 

Blankley,   Captain,   presents  Joseph 

Bonaparte's  sword  to  the  Regent, 

206 
Bloomfield,  Colonel,  good  offices  of, 

203 
Bloomfield,  Sir  B.,  at  the  Pavilion, 

327 
Blucher,    Count   von,    at   Waterloo, 

250;  defeats  Napoleon,   218;   his 

after-dinner    speech,     226  ;    visits 

England,  226,  230,  341,  342 
Bluck,  Matthew,  176 
Boigne,    Comtesse   de,   Memoirs  of, 

290  note 
Boldero,  Mr.,  at  Hunsdon,  332 
Boleyn,  Mary,  176 
Bologna,  227  note 
Bolton,  Catherine,  Duchess  of,  victim 

of  influenza,  128  ;  visit  to,  42 
Bolton,  Harry,  6th  Duke  of,  42  note 
Bombastes  Furioso,  332 
Bonaparte,      Joseph,      defeated     by 

Wellesley,    138;  his  sword,   206; 

report  of  his  death,   104  ;  retreats 

from  Madrid,  109 
Bonaparte,    Mine.  Jerome,   in   Eng- 
land, 44 
Bonaparte,    Jerome,    imprisoned    by 

Napoleon,  44,  68 
Boningtons,    Calvert    family    at,    8, 

57,  378 
—  Rt.    Hon.   C.   P.   Yorke  at,    131 

note 
Bordeaux,  220  ;  capture  of,  218 
Boringdon,  Viscountess,  21 
Boringdon,  John,  Viscount,  his  mar- 
riages, 21,  177  note 
Boringdon,  Frances,  Viscountess,  her 

love  of  waltzing,  177,  199 
Bosworth,  battle  of,  175 
Boulogne,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  365 
Bouverie,  Emma,  31  ;  as  a  fairy,  68 
Bouverie,    H6n.    Edward,   31    note, 

101  note 
Bouverie,  Lady  Bridget,  at  Brighton, 

18  ;  her  assembly,  310 ;  visit  to,  68 
Bouverie,    Maria,    31  ;    in    Spanish 

attire,  68 
Bouverie,  Miss,   her  marriage,   131; 

letter  from,  121 
Bowood,  1850,  247  note 
Boyce,  Henry  Pytcher,  84  note 
Boyle,  Henry,  376 


INDEX 


387 


Boyne,  battle  of  the,  363 

Bradshaw,  Cavendish,  23 

Braine  l'Alleud,  253 

Brampton  Park,  Hunts,  162  note 

Brand,  Hon.  Henry  Otway,  his  mar- 
riage, 112  ;  visit  to,  112 

Brand,  Hon.  Thomas,  acquaintance 
with,  36,  78  ;  at  the  Hertford  Ball, 
149,  270,  271  ;  contests  Brighton, 
74  ;  his  ball,  52  ;  his  filial  affec- 
tion, 332  note  ;  his  good  offices  for 
Felix  Calvert,  159,  172,  210,  211  ; 
his  marriage,  29  note,  149;  his 
succession  as  Lord  Dacre,  29  note, 
332  ;  M.P.  for  County  of  Hert- 
ford, 29,  36,  321  ;  on  the  Catholic 
question,  36,  73 

Brandon,  Alexander,  7th  Duke  of, 
39  note 

Brandon,  William,  9th  Lord,  112 
note 

Breadalbane,    Lady,    her   assembly, 

34i 
Brescia,  siege  of,  191 
Brest,  291  note 
Bridgewater,  Charlotte,  Countess  of, 

visits  to,  112,  225 
Bridgewater,  General   the  7th  Earl 

of,  112  note 
Brighton,  Free  Chapel,  212 

—  Knox  family  at,  231,  238 

—  Master  of  the  Ceremonies'  ball  at, 

85 

—  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's  house,  81 

—  Pavilion,  balls  at,  8,  16,  240,  275, 

327,  353 

—  Pavilion,   evenings  at,    81,    203, 

238-40,  327,  351 

—  Pavilion,  Queen  Charlotte  at,  80 

—  Pavilion,  stables  of,  74 

—  Steyne,  the,  215 

—  visits  to  :  1793,  8  ;  1800, 12  ;  1804, 

16;  1807,  74,  77,  81,  87,  89; 
1812,  183;  1813,  200-7,  209; 
1814,  213-16;  238-40;  1815, 
250;    1819,    327;    1821,    351, 

.353. 
Brissot,  his  correspondence  with  Lord 

Lauderdale,  75 
Bristol,     Frederick,     4th     Earl    of, 

Bishop  of  Derry,  308  note,  376 
Bristol,  Frederick  William,  5th  Earl 

of,  his  house  at  Ickworth,  333 
British  Gallery,  Pall  Mall,  126 


Brocket,  46 

Brocket  Hall,  visit  to,  351 

Brodrick,  G.  C,  and  T.  K.  Fother- 
ingham,  Political  History  of  Eng- 
land, 220  note,  224  note 

Broek,  visit  to,  1817,  303 

Brooke's,  247  note ;  news  from  the 
war  at,  139 

Brothers,  Richard,  prophecies  of,  34 

Brown,  Mr.,  astronomer,  112 

Browne,  Thomas  Trollope,  85  note 

Brownlow,  Hon.  Charles,  at  Cob- 
ham  Hall,  148.    See  Baron  Lurgan 

Brownlow,  Elizabeth.  See  Lady 
Darnley 

Brownlow,  Lieut. -Col.  Charles,  visit 
to,  267 

Brownlow,  Miss,  affectation  of,  148 

Brownlow,  Hon.  Mrs.  William,  364  ; 
Mrs.  Calvert  on,  20,  21,  267 

Brownlow,  Rt.  Hon.  William,  8 ; 
20  note,  99  note 

Bruce,  Mr.,  his  arrest  in  Paris,  260 

Brummel,  Beau,  his  rupture  with  the 
Prince,  72  note,  354  note ;  leaves 
England,  313 

Brunswick,  Queen  Caroline  buried  in, 

357 
Brunswick,  Augusta,  Duchess  of,  at 

Lady  Saltoun's  assembly,  102  ;  her 

death,  199 
Brunswick     Wolfenbiittel,      Charles 

William,  Duke  of,   102  note 
Brunton,  John,  8^  note ;  91  note 
Brunton,  Louisa,  playing  at  Brighton, 

83.     See  Lady  Craven 
Brussels,  Mrs.  Calvert  in,  275-80 
Bryan,  Lady,  at  Hunsdon,  175 
Buchan,  5th  Earl  of,  194  note 
Bucharest,  Peace  of,  230  note 
Buckenham    House,    visit   to,    1820, 

348-50 
Buckingham,  Marquess  of,  78  note, 

376 
Buckinghamshire,  Albinia,  Countess 

of,    at   Hobart   House,    153 ;   her 

Venetian  breakfast,  160 
Buckinghamshire,  George,  3rd  Earl 

of,  153  note 
Buckinghamshire,  Robert,  4th  Earl 

of,  his  political  career,  27,  41,  130 
Budget  of  1806,  64 
Buenos  Ayres,  71 
Buffon,  his  garden  at  Montbard,  294 


388 


INDEX 


Bulkeley,  Viscount,  at  Mrs.  Knox's, 

IOI 

Bulkeley,  Emma,  Viscountess,  her 
assemblies,  38,  93 

Bulwer,  Lord.     See  Bailing 

Bunbury,  Captain  William  McClin- 
tock,  his  marriage,  318  note 

Bunbury,  Sir  Thomas,  129  note 

Bunsen,  Mme.,  348 

Burdett,  Sir  Francis,  champions  Lord 
Cochrane,  228  note  ;  his  duel  with 
Paul,  75  ;  his  election  for  West- 
minster, 75,  321  ;  his  imprisonment 
in  theTower,  156-8,  163,  343  note  ; 
his  reported  duel  with  Tierney,  136 

Burdett,  Sir  Robert,  156  note 

Burges,  Lady  Smith,  her  marriage  to 
Lord  Poulett,  264 

Burges,  Ynyr,  264 

Burghersh,  Lady,  Blucher's  compli- 
ment to,  226 

Burghersh,  Lord,  at  Lady  Hamp- 
den's, 225  ;  his  promotion,  136  ; 
marriage  of,  171 

Burgos,  siege  of,  191 

Burgoyne,  Elizabeth,  at  Hunsdon 
House,  271 

Burgoyne,  Mr.,  106,  319 

Burke,  Edmund,  136  note;  at  Lady 
Anne  Barnard's,  92  note ;  letters 
from,  376 

Burke,  Rev.  Robert,  marries  the 
Prince  of  Wales  and  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert,  77 

Burleigh,  268 

Burlington,  George,  1st  Earl  of,  his 
creation,  309  note;  his  sons,  221 
note 

Burlington  House,  95,  229 

Burney,  Fanny,  152.  See  Madame 
D'Arblay 

Burrell,  Lady,  at  the  Pavilion, 
204 

Bury,  John,  212  note 

Bury,  Lady  Charlotte,  at  Lydia 
White's,  213  note 

Bury  St.   Edmunds,  fairs  at,  332-4, 

349,  3SO 
Bussey,  George.     See  Earl  of  Jersey 
Bute,  3rd  Earl  of,  his  family,  43,  65 

note,  362  note 
Butler,  Dr.,  Headmaster  of  Harrow, 

39,  40,   127,  248 ;  visits  from,  39, 

97 


Butler,    Lady   Eleanor,    her   life  at 

Llangollen,  266,  362 
Butler,  Mrs.,  plays  Casino,  45,  48 
Butler,  Walter,  his  children,  266  note 
Buxton,  5 
Byde,  Colonel,  162,  198 ;  his  death, 

345 
Byde,  Mr.  and  Miss,  51 
Byng,  Hon.   Frederick  ("Poodle"), 

247  and  note 
Byron,  Captain,  at  the  Hertford  Ball, 

270 
Byron,  George  Gordon,  Lord,  Lady 

C.  Lamb's  infatuation  for,  46  ;  his 

friendship  with  Lydia  White,  213 

note  ;  his  marriage  to   Miss   Mil- 

banke,  240 
Byrne,  Mr.,  107,  217 

Cadiz,  Felix  Calvert  at,  159, 160,173; 
French  fleet  at,  103,  105 

Cadogan,  Lady  Charlotte,  126  note 

Calais,  crossings  from,  304,  331  ; 
Mrs.  Calvert  in,  274 ;  panorama 
of,  230 

Calder,  Sir  Henry  Roddam,  his 
marriage,  329,  331 

Caledon,  Lord,  at  dinner  with,  313 

Calne,  Wilts.,  28  note 

Calthorpe,  Miss,  chaperoned  by  Mrs. 
Calvert,  129 

Calvert,  Charles,  248,  272  ;  his  pro- 
cession, 321,  322 ;  in  love  with 
Esther  Acklom,  70,  72,  77,  83,  92  ; 
leads  the  Duke  of  Clarence  home, 
81 

Calvert  Edmond,  at  Bath,  359;  at 
Brighton,  16,  18,  214;  at  Hailey- 
bury,  68,  101,  167;  at  Harewood, 
268 ;  enters  the  brewery,  272 ;  in 
fancy  dress,  329,  345  ;  in  Ireland, 
10,  265,  269  ;  saves  Mr.  Vaughan's 
life,  307  ;  succeeds  to  his  brother's 
estates,  379 

Calvert,  Felix,  senior,  54  note 

Calvert,  General  Felix,  birth  of, 
7 ;  caressed  by  George  III,  9, 
195  ;  at  Brighton,  12,  18 ;  at 
Harrow,  13,  18,  26;  filial  affec- 
tion of,  55,  58,  59,  87,  107,  108  ; 
his  confirmation,  73  ;  at  Firle,  85-7  ; 
enters  the  army,  88,  91-94;  his 
expedition  to  Sweden,  96-106  ;  his 
portraits,  97,  270,  357  note;   his 


INDEX 


389 


sister's  godfather,  109 ;  with  Sir 
John  Moore  in  Spain,  105,  110-20  ; 
his  promotions,  III,  247,  323,  348, 
357,  377 ;  returns  home  from 
various  expeditions,  121,  122,  142, 
150,  183,  187,  246  ;  in  society,  125- 
27  ;  recruiting  at  Battle,  129;  on 
the  Walcheren  expedition,  137,  138, 
141  ;  as  aide-de-camp  to  General 
Graham,  158-210;  at  Barossa,  171- 
3;  his  illness  at  Cadiz,  173;  his 
return  to  Spain,  183  ;  at  Castello 
Branco,  185;  at  Vittoria,  202;  at 
Tortosa,  203 ;  at  St.  Sebastian, 
204,  206,  208 ;  passed  over  by 
General  Graham,  209-12,  223, 
233  ;  his  kindness  to  Hon.  W.  C. 
Pery,  210,  218  ;  at  Gibraltar,  217- 
21  ;  Duke  of  Wellington  on,  233  ; 
Prince  Regent's  interest  in,  239 ; 
at  Waterloo,  249-55  ;  his  hunters, 
27°>  332  ;  travels  abroad,  272,  288, 
294,  320,  323  ;  his  death,  366, 
376,  379 ;  obituary  notice  of, 
376-9 

Calvert,  General,  127 ;  his  good 
offices  for  Felix  Calvert,  89,  96, 
105-11,  119,  123,  202,  247;  made 
K.C.B.,  240 

Calvert,  Harriet  Diana,  200,  329 ; 
birth  of,  168,  at  Hunsdon,  356, 
357  ;  at  Lord  Grantham's  ball,  328 

Calvert,  Honor,  54  note 

Calvert,  Hon.  Mrs.  (Frances  Pery), 
her  journal,  4,  82,  365 ;  her 
marriage,  5,  62  ;  presented  at 
Court,  1789,  6  ;  children  of,  7.  See 
separate  names ;  inoculates  for 
smallpox,  7,  9,  13,  19,  23,  27  ;  her 
visits  to  Ireland,  7,  10,  265-8, 
363  ;  at  Brighton,  8.  See  Brighton  ; 
mistaken  for  Lady  Jersey,  10 ; 
settles  at  Hunsdon  House,  13,  14, 
19,  48-52,  54,  57,  174  ;  her  assem- 
blies, 15,  38,  40,  341  ;  her  love  of 
reading,  21,  no;  at  Court,  de- 
scribes her  dress,  33,  152,  193-5, 
224,  245,  264,  311,  344;  tires  of 
Casino,  47  ;  her  father's  death, 
60-3 ;  on  masquerades,  68 ;  her 
feelings  for  Miss  Acklom,  72,  83. 
See  Acklom  ;  enjoys  a  practical 
joke,  73 ;  her  dislike  of  Sir  J. 
Sebright,  76,  78,  153  ;  her  country 


visits,  85,  88,  111-16,  148,  188, 
268-70,  322,  334,  346,  348-51, 
358,  364  ;  her  affection  for  her  son, 
Felix,  91,  97,  117-22,  138,  150, 
172,  202-5,  250-5;  takes  to 
shoe-making,  98  ;  visits  her  son  at 
Haileybury,  101 ;  at  Blackheath, 
102;  at  Hatfield  House,  107,  138, 
142,  233,  346,  357  ;  takes  Isabella 
into  society,  124-7,  134,  142, 
149,  152,  154,  155,  160;  her  im- 
pulsive start  for  Ireland,  131,  132  ; 
at  Ramsgate,  144-8 ;  her  cloak, 
146-8 ;  on  Miss  Elphinstone, 
154;  at  the  Prince  Regent's  balls, 
178,  193,  205,  232,  240,  317  ;  at 
White's  ball,  230 ;  her  Sunday 
school,  236 ;  her  travels  abroad, 
273-304  ;  her  day  school  at  Huns- 
don, 305  ;  her  leaning  towards  the 
blue-stockings,  310  ;  her  balls,  314, 
328,  342  ;  at  Bury  Fair  ;  332-4  ; 
her  mother's  death,  353 ;  at  the 
Duchesse  de  San  Carlos'  ball,  335  ; 
moves  to  Grafton  Street,  337  ;  at 
Bath,  359  ;  her  old  age,  365,  366 
Calvert,  Isabella,  birth  of,  7  ;  inocu- 
lation of,  9  ;  education  of,  14,  18, 
24,  37,  52,  56,  67,  124 ;  at  Brighton, 
16,  18  ;  at  the  play,  42,  57,  85  ; 
at  Hunsdon,  48,  51,  101,  102, 
106,    in;    character  of,   56,    68; 


visits  with   her   mother, 


114, 


134;  reads  aloud  to  her  mother, 
no,  in  ;  her  appearance,  124, 
126,  134,  142,  149,  152,  154,  155, 
160;  at  dances,  124,  125;  her 
confirmation,  127,  129  ;  her  debut, 
134,  142  ;  at  Ramsgate,  144-8  ;  at 
the  Hertford  ball,  149 ;  presented 
at  Court,  151,  152;  admired  by 
the  Persian  Ambassador,  160 ;  at 
Vauxhall  Gardens,  165 ;  her  en- 
gagement, 166  ;  her  wedding,  167, 
168.     See  Lady  James  Stronge 

Calvert,  John,  315 ;  accompanies 
Queen's  body  to  Brunswick,  357  ; 
his  house,  Stable  Yard,  235 

Calvert,  Lavinia,  birth  and  death  of, 
7,  10,  364  note 

Calvert,  Lavinia  Frances,  III,  135, 
168,  263,  315  ;  at  Court,  224,  264, 
344;  at  Hunsdon,  101,  102,  210; 
at  the  Hertford  bazaar,   347  ;   at 


390 


INDEX 


the  Pavilion,  205-7,  240,  327, 
328 ;  birth  of,  II  ;  her  appearance, 
159 ;  her  confirmation,  244,  228  ; 
her  old  age,  263  ;  her  rumoured 
engagement,  316,  318;  her  travels 
abroad,  274  ;  in  fancy  dress,  318, 
329,  33°»  345  ;  in  Ireland,  265, 
269;  in  society,  199,  205,  208, 
213,  214,  215 

Calvert,  Mary,  her  birth  and  death, 
9,  54 

Calvert,  Mary  Caroline  Anne  Felicia, 
159,  200  ;  birth  of,  109  ;  at  Huns- 
don,  356,  357  ;  in  society,  328 

Calvert,  Mr.  (father  of  Nicholson 
Calvert),    at    Hunsdon    House,   8, 

13 

Calvert,  Mrs.  Nicholson,  26} 

Calvert,  Mrs.  Richard,  advocate  of 
Queen  Caroline,  348 

Calvert,  Mrs.  Robert,  354 

Calvert,  Nicolson,  admired  by  the 
Duchess  of  Gordon,  39  ;  at  Hert- 
ford, 125  ;  at  the  Levees,  328  ; 
disapproves  of  his  wife's  journey, 
131,  132;  his  death,  365;  houses 
bequeathed  to,  176,  269,  354;  in 
Paris,  297 ;  leases  5  Albemarle 
Street,  23  ;  Liberal  M.P.  for  Hert- 
ford, 14,  75,  189,  190,  320,  321  ; 
marriage  of,  5  ;  on  the  political 
situation,  43,  78,  345  ;  Prince 
Regent's  opinion  of,  203  ;  slighted 
by  the  Prince  of  Wales,  32,  34 

Calvert,  Nicolson  Robert,  168;  at 
Haileybury,  101  ;  at  Hunsdon, 
42;  birth  of,  1800,  12;  caressed 
by  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  18  ;  in  fancy 
dress,  345 

Calvert,  Rev.  William,  baptizes  John 
Calvert  Stronge,  200;  baptizes  M. 
C.  A.  F.  Calvert,  109 

Calvert,  Richard,  8  note  ;  visit  to, 
188 

Calvert,  Richard  Charles,  his  birth, 
60 

Calvert,  Robert,  death  of,  354 

Calvert,  Sir  Harry,  at  Hunsdon,  357  ; 
at  the  Horse  Guards,  243,  251,  256 

Calvert,  Thomas,  his  death  at  a  ball, 
104,  105 

Calvert,  Walter,  51,  354;  at  Bath, 
359;  at  the  Hertford  Ball,  270; 
letter  from,  104 


Calvert,  William  (senior),  51 
Calvert,  William  (son  of  Nicolson 
Calvert),  135,  168,  379;  at  Har- 
row, 319;  at  Hertford  Fair,  347; 
birth  of,  14  ;  confirmation  of,  342  ; 
illness  of,  39,  40 ;  in  Ireland,  362, 

363 

Calvert's  Brewery,  272  note 

Cambaceres,  M.,  in  Brussels,  276 

Cambridge,  Quarter  Sessions  at,  350  ; 
University,  60 

Cambridge,  Augusta,  Duchess  of,  her 
marriage,  319 

Cambridge,  Adolphus,  Duke  of,  at 
Carlton  House,  233 ;  at  Chapel 
Royal,  123;  at  Court,  33,  152, 
194 ;  at  Lady  Salisbury's,  36  ;  at 
Miss  Noel's  ball,  79  ;  at  Mrs.  Cal- 
vert's, 38,  40;  at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's, 
76,  137;  at  Mrs.  Knox's,  199;  at 
the  Prince  Regent's  ball,  178  ;  at 
Wimbledon,  103  ;  his  income,  317  ; 
his  marriage,  265,  308,  314,  319 

Camden,  Frances,  Lady,  at  Lady 
Rossmore's,  29 ;  her  assemblies, 
124 

Camden,  Lord,  as  Viceroy  of  India, 
86  note  ;  in  the  Ministry,  72 

Camelford,  Pitt,  Lord,  79  note ;  his 
house,  265  note 

Camelford  House,  Princess  Charlotte 
at,  262,  265 

Campbell,  Lady,  her  anxiety  for  her 
husband,  135,  139,  142;  her  ball, 
104  ;  her  death,  319  ;  visit  to,  45 

Campbell,  Miss  Preston,  171 

Campbell,  Mr.,  at  Mrs.  Calvert's 
ball,  342  ;  at  Mrs.  Knox's  ball,  126 

Campbell,  Samuel,  30  note 

Campbell,  General  Sir  Henry,  is 
wounded  in  the  Peninsula,  135, 
139,  142 

Canning,  George,  at  Paine's  Hill, 
88;  his  duel  with  Lord  Castle- 
reagh,  142,  144 ;  in  the  Ministry, 
1807,  73 

Canning,  Lady,  her  beauty,  295  note 

Canning,  Miss,  at  Paine's  Hill,  88 

Cannon  Hall,  Yorks.,  349  note 

Cannonsleigh,  Devon,  25  note,  133 
note 

Canterbury,  Archbishop  of,  39,  307 
note 

Canterbury,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  273 


INDEX 


391 


Canterbury,  Charles,  Viscount,  307 
note 

Cape  of  Good  Hope,  127  note  ;  cap- 
ture of,  62,  71  ;  Lord  Charles 
Somerset,  Governor  of,  84  note ; 
Lord  Macartney,  Governor  of,  92 
note  ;  Sir  John  Barrow  at,  313 

Capel  Curig,  267 

CaractacuS)  a  Ballet,  99 

Carcluie,  39  note 

Cardigan,  Penelope  Anne,  Countess 
of,  her  assembly,  263 

Cardigan,  Robert,  6th  Earl  of,  his 
marriage,  263  note 

Carey,  Anne,  176 

Carey,  Sir  Henry,  created  Baron 
Hunsdon,  176 

Carey,  William,  176 

Carhampton,  Countess  of,  her  as- 
sembly, 125;  her  ball,  199;  her 
income,  354  ;  visit  to,  88 

Carhampton,  Simon,  1st  Earl  of,  at 
dinner  with,  29,  102 ;  his  death 
and  will,  354 ;  visits  to  and  from, 
21,88 

Carlisle,  Lady,  65  note 

Carlisle,  Lord,  his  sons,  205 

Carlsruhe,  285 

Carlton  House,  assemblies  at,  317  ; 
balls  at,  193,  195,  355  ;  dinners  at, 
226 ;  fete  at,  227,  232 ;  levees  at, 
264 

Caroline  of  Brunswick,  Princess  of 
Wales,  and  afterwards  Queen,  airs 
her  grievances,  197,  198;  at 
Chapel  Royal,  123  ;  at  Court,  33, 
74,  152,  194;  at  Lady  Saltoun's 
assembly,  102 ;  courts  popularity, 
232  ;  goes  abroad,  235  ;  her  con- 
duct discussed  in  Parliament,  198, 
200 ;  her  death,  356,  357 ;  her 
marriage,  8,  10,  12  ;  her  trial,  338, 
343-56  ;  insists  on  her  rights,  222, 
224,  225  ;  Lord  Melville  dines  with, 

Carpenter,  Lady  Almeria,  31 
Carr,  Lt.-Col.   Sir  Henry,  his  mar- 
riage, 240 
Carr,  Rev.  Mr.,  Vicar  of  Brighton, 

240 
Carrington,  1st  and  2nd  Baron,  298 

note 
Carryl,  Mary,  267  note 
Cashell,  Archbishop  of,  38  note 


Casino,  Mrs.  Calvert  plays,  47 

Casleue,  377 

Cassilis,  Margaret,  Countess  of,  68 ; 
at  dinner  with,  31,  39,  127,  171  ; 
on  Miss  Bouverie,  131  ;  visits  from, 
42 

Cassilis,  Archibald,  12th  Earl  of, 
dinners  with,  31,  39;  marriage  of 
his  son,  217,  221  ;  Mrs.  Calvert 
plays  a  joke  on,  74 

Cassiobury,  visit  to,  269 

Castelcicala,  Princess,  her  ball  in 
Paris,  301 

Castello  Branco,  Felix  Calvert  at,  185 

Castlecoote,  Charles,  2nd  Lord,  306 
note 

Castlereagh,  Caroline,  Lady,  enter- 
tains Bliicher,  226  ;  her  assemblies, 
341  ;  miniature  of,  163.  See 
Marchioness  of  Londonderry 

Castlereagh,  Robert,  Lord,  an  am- 
bassador for  peace,  214;  at 
Brighton,  352  ;  his  duel  with  Can- 
ning, 142,  144  ;  in  Parliament,  73, 
74,  120,  133  ;  on  the  Prince  and 
Princess  of  Wales,  231  ;  on  the 
Princes'  incomes,  316.  See  Mar- 
quess of  Londonderry 

Castlereagh,  Charles  William,  Lord, 
163  note.  See  3rd  Marquess  of 
Londonderry 

Castle  Stewart,  Jemima,  Countess 
of,  137  note 

Castle  Stewart,  1st  Earl  of,  his  dis- 
pleasure at  his  son's  marriage,  137 

Castle  Stewart,  Robert,  2nd  Earl  of, 
succeeds  to  the  title,  137  note 

Castletown,  130  note 

Castries,  Due  de,  255 

Caswall,  Miss,  271 

Caswall,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  51 

Catalani,  Madame,  at  Lady  Salis- 
bury's concert,  101  ;  at  Mrs. 
Knox's  concert,  156;  at  the  Pa- 
vilion, 204 ;  Mrs.  Calvert  on,  70 ; 
relinquishes  engagement  at  Covent 
Garden,  143 

Cathcart,  9th  Baron,  196,  227  note 

Cathcart,  Captain,  160 

Catherine  of  Russia,  Empress,  51 
note 

Catholic  Emancipation,  debates  on, 
36,  43,  44,  73 

Cato  Street  Conspiracy,  the,  339 


392 


INDEX 


Caton,  Miss,  her  marriage  to  Colonel 

Hervey,  279 
Caulfield,  Mrs.  and  Miss,  at  dinner 

with,  341 
Cavan,  Honora,  Countess  of,  88  note 
Cavendish,  Hon.   Charles  Compton, 

marriage  of,  221.     See  Lord  Ches- 

ham 
Cavendish,   Lady  Harriet,  65  note  ; 

marriage  of,  149 
Cavendish,    Lord   George    Augustus 

Henry,  his  claim  to  the  dukedom, 

309  ;  his  son  lost  at  sea,  121.     See 

Earl  of  Burlington 
Cawdor,   John,    1st   Earl,    his   mar- 
riage, 232  note 
Cecil  family,  the,  341  note 
Cecil,    Lady,    at   Hertford   election, 

190 
Cecil,  Lady  Emily,  her  good  looks, 

71.       See    Marchioness    of    West- 

meath 
Cecil,  Lady  Georgiana,  at  the  Hert- 
ford ball,  149  ;  marriage  of,   186. 

See  Lady  Cowley 
Chamilly,  M.  de,  372 
Chamounix,  visit  to,  18 17,  292 
Champagne,   Mrs.,   her   Loo   party, 

340 
Champagne,  Very  Rev.  Arthur,  Dean 

of  Clonmacnoise,  340  note 
Chancellor,    Beresford,    Wanderings 

in  Piccadilly,  96  note 
Chaplin,    Bettina,    her    assemblies, 

124,     160;    takes    Mrs.    Calvert's 

cloak,  146-8 
Charing  Cross,  riot  at,  344 
Charlemont,  Anne,  Countess  of,  her 

prettiness,  29,  226 
Charlemont,    Francis    William,    5th 

Earl,  29 
Charleroi,  Napoleon  at,  279 
Charles  I,  his  cap,  135 
Charles  II,  96,  319 
Charles  X,  15,  297  note,  301  note 
Charles  XIII,  of  Sweden,  deposed  by 

Bernadotte,  129  note 
Charles    Louis   Frederick,    Duke    of 

Baden,  his  marriage,  284 
Charleville,    Catherine,    Viscountess, 

her  assemblies,  227,  307,  308 ;  her 

dilemma,  311 
Charleville,    Charles    William,     1st 

Viscount,  307  note 


Charlotte,  Queen,  at  Brighton,  259 ; 
at  Carlton  House,  195,  233,  317  ; 
her  attitude  to  the  Prince,  12  ;  her 
birthday,  193-5;  ner  death,  319, 
322-4,  328  ;  her  Drawing-Rooms, 
33,  224,  245,  264,  311  ;  her  gift  to 
Lady  Tavistock,  108  ;  on  Isabella 
Calvert,  152 ;  opens  the  Soho 
bazaar,  320  note ;  shocked  by 
Duke  of  Clarence's  proposal,  314 

Charlotte  Augusta  of  Wales,  Princess, 
at  Court,  224,  264  ;  at  the  Regent's 
ball,  195  ;  cuts  Prince  Paul  of 
Wiirtemberg,  226  ;  her  birth,  10  ; 
her  death,  305-7,  309,  320 ;  her 
friendship  with  Miss  Elphinstone, 
154;  her  governesses,  26,  30,  193; 
her  marriage  to  Prince  Leopold, 
261-3,  265,  305  note  ;  Marlborough 
House  purchased  for,  79  note ; 
miniature  of,  116  note;  proposed 
marriages  of,  223,  225,  231,  232, 
235  ;  scandalous  reports  about,  198 

Charlotte  Augusta  Matilda,  Princess 
Royal,  marriage  of,  1 1.  See  Duchess 
of  Wiirtemberg 

Charrington,  Mr.,  owner  of  Huns- 
don  House,  176 

Chartres,  276  note 

Chateau  de  Meudon,  301 

Chatham,  John  Pitt,  2nd  Earl  of, 
appointed  Governor  of  Gibraltar, 
141  ;  his  failure  at  Walcheren,  140 

Chatterley,  Mrs.,  358 

Chaulnes,  Due  de,  his  collection  of 
coins,  310  note 

Cheltenham,  Prince  of  Wales  at,  80 

Cherbourg,  Due  de  Berri  at,  220 

Chesapeake,  capture  of  the,  202 

Chesham,  Lord,  creation  of,  221  note 

Chesta,  a  Spanish  general,  138 

Chevrells,  309  note 

Chichester,  Mary  Henrietta,  Countess 
of,  Mrs.  Calvert's  opinion  of,  86 

Chichester,  Thomas  Pelham,  2nd 
Earl  of,  at  Firle,  86 

Childerley,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  322 

Chili,  8^  note 

Chilver,  Mr.,  medical  services  of,  19, 
23.  45>  57,  120,  334,  352 

Cholmondeley,  Lady  C,  at  the 
Pavilion,  238,  239 

Christ  Church  College,  Oxford, 
destroyed  by  fire,  125 


INDEX 


393 


Christchurch,  Dr.  Jackson,  Dean  of, 
37,  203 

Christian  VII,  King  of  Denmark, 
318  note 

Christian,  Prince,  of  Schleswig-Hol- 
stein,  318  note 

Chunee,  elephant,  341  note 

Churchill,  Lord,  his  creation,  84  note 

Cintra,  no 

Cipriani,  his  work  at  Melbourne 
House,  96 

Ciudad  Rodrigo,  capture  of,  183 

Clancarty,  Anne,  Countess,  in 
Brussels,  275-89 

Clancarty,  William,  1st  Earl  of, 
Ambassador  in  Brussels,  275 

Clanricarde,  Lady,  her  marriage  to 
Sir  J.  Yorke,  200 

Clare,  Anne,  Countess  of,  her  cha- 
racter, 42  ;  visits  to  and  from,  1 10, 
114 

Clare,  John  Fitzgibbon,  1st  Earl  of, 
1 14  note 

Claremont,  Lady,  30 

Clarence,  Adelaide,  Duchess  of 
(afterwards  Queen),  her  marriage, 
322  ;  her  daughter's  birth,  351 

Clarence,  William,  Duke  of  (after- 
wards William  IV),  at  Brighton, 
17,  81,  203-7,  239,  240,  259, 
327  ;  at  Court,  194,  245  ;  at  Mrs. 
Egerton's,  264;  at  Mrs.  Fitz- 
herbert's,  76,  265  ;  at  Mrs.  Knox's, 
199,  246,  247  ;  at  the  Duchess  de 
San  Carlos's  ball,  336 ;  at  the 
Prince  Regent's  ball,  178 ;  at  the 
opening  of  Parliament,  335 ;  con- 
ducts Louis  XVIII  to  France,  220  ; 
his  marriage,  316,  317,  322;  his 
natural  children,  204,  339  note, 
351  ;  his  proposals  of  marriage, 
180-2,  198,  219,  308,  31 1-4;  on  L. 
F.  Calvert,  239,  241  ;  on  Mr.  Cal- 
vert, 137  ;  on  royal  funerals,  339 

Clarendon,  Lord,  375 

Clarke,  Dr.,  his  medical  advice,  45, 

344 
Clarke,    Mrs.,   examination    of,   for 

selling  commissions,  123-7 
Claverton  House,  St.  Catherine's,  144 
Clements,  Lady  Caroline,  49  note 
Clermont,  Frances,  Countess  of,  her 

assemblies,  224 ;  visits  to,  58,  79, 

123 


Clermont,  William  Henry  Fortescue, 

Earl  of,  79  note 
Clery,  372 

Clifden,  Caroline,  Viscountess,  deli- 
cacy of,  67 
Clifden,    Henry,    2nd   Viscount,    at 

dinner  with,  67,  228 
Clifford,      Sir      Augustus      William 

James,    his    marriage,    211 ;     his 

career,  211  note 
Clifton,  Lord,  at  Almack's,  329 
Clogher,  Bishop  of,  246  note 
Clonmacnoise,  Dean  of,  340  note 
Clonyn,  Lord  Greville  of,  71  note 
Cloyne,  Bishop  of,  38  note 
Clutterbuck,   Robert,  his  History  of 

Hertfordshire,  347 
Cobbe,  Thomas,  88  note 
Cobham  Hall,  visits  to,  8,  88,  148, 

188 
Cochrane,  Miss,  her  dog  Varsovie, 

134 

Cochrane,  Lord,  129  ;  Sheridan  peti- 
tions against  his  return,  76  ;  Mrs. 
Knox  canvasses  for,  75  ;  his  escape 
and  re-arrest,  245  ;  his  career,  75 
note ;  found  guilty  of  fraud,  227, 
231 
Cochrane,  Sir  Alexander  Forrester 
Inglis,  promotes  Edmond  Knox, 
141;  in  America,  227  note; 
destroys  the  French  fleet,  133 
Cochrane,    Hon.    Basil,   inventor  of 

Vapor  Baths,  129 
Cocks,  Colonel,  death  of,  191 
Cocks,  Charles.     See  Lord  Somers 
Coke,  Elizabeth  Wilhelmina,  349 
Coke,  Thomas  William,  of  Holkham, 
his  daughter,  317  note;  at  New- 
market,  357 ;    at    Hunsdon,  225, 
248  ;  his  marriages,  349  note,  361  ; 
visit  to,   1820,  349.      See  Earl  of 
Leicester 
Colbeck,  Mr.,  178 
Cole,  Lady  Henrietta,  marriage  of, 

48 
Cole,   Mary,  her  marriage  to  Lord 

Berkeley,  187 
Colebrooke,  Sir  James,  88  note 
Collings,  Mrs.  Calvert's  maid,  104 
Collingwood,   Admiral    Lord,   death 

of,  159 
Cologne,  229  ;   visit  to,  1817,  281  ; 
Coloony,  Co.  Sligo,  44  note 


394 


INDEX 


Columbus,  Christopher,  155  note 
Compiegne,  Wellington  at,  251 
Conde,  Prince  de  Bourbon,  15  note 
Congleton,  Henry  Parnell,  1st  Lord, 

64  note.    See  Parnell 
Conolly,  Lady  Louisa,  at  the  Duchess 

of  Leinster's,  130 
Conolly,  Rt.  Hon.  Thomas,  130  note 
Constantinople,  Felix  Calvert  at,  320, 

323 

Conway,  Lord,  builds  Ragley  Hall, 

90  note 
Conyers,  Miss,  20 
Conyngham,  Elizabeth,  Marchioness 

of,  at  Brighton,  351 
Conyngham,    Henry,    1st   Marquess, 

his  marriage,  351  note 
Conyngham,  Jane,   Marchioness  of, 

319  note 
Conyngham,    Lady    Elizabeth,    her 

marriage  to  Marquis  Huntley,  352 
Cooke,  George,  263  note 
Coombe,  Rev.  Mr.,  24 
Coote,  Charles,  Dean  of  Kilfenora, 

306  note 
Copenhagen,  siege  of.  87,  89,  93 
Copley,  Catherine,  48  note 
Copley,  Col.  Sir  Joseph,  47  note,  48 

note 
Copley,  Lady  Cecil,  46 
Copley,  Sir  John,  at  Lydia  White's, 

213  note.    See  Lord  Lyndhurst 
Coppet,  293  note 
Corby  Castle,  308  note 
Corfu,  Felix  Calvert  at,  323 
Corinne,  309  note 

Cork,  Lady,  "runs"  Miss  Noel,  79 
Corn  Law  Riots,  241-3,  261,  271 
Corney,  Mrs.,  305 
Cornwall,  Sir  G.,  296  note 
Coronation,  The,  356 
Corunna,  battle  of,  39  note,  118,  119, 

127  note,  130,  169 
Cosway,  Richard,  163  note 
Cottin,  Alexander,  309  note 
Cotton,  Lady,  350 
Cotton,  Mrs.  Alick,  350 
Courcy,  Admiral  de,  his  gazette,  120 
Courier,  The,  237 
Court,  The,  Co.  Dublin,  266  note 
Courtenay,  2nd  Viscount,  84  note 
Courtney,  Lord,  his  fancy  dress,  161 
Courtney,  W.   P.,  Eight  Friends  of 

the  Great,  213  note 


Courtown,  Lady,  6 
Coutts,  Sophia,  156  note 
Coutts,  Thomas,  his  box,  340 
Covent   Garden   Theatre,    305 ;    de- 
stroyed by  fire,  III  5  Miss  O'Neil 
at,  249,  271  ;  riots  on  re-opening, 

143-5 

Coventry,  Peter  Moore,  M.P.  for, 
119  note 

Cowie,  217  note 

Cowley,  Georgiana,  Lady,  149  note  ; 
death  of,  186  note 

Cowley,  Henry,  1st  Lord,  149  note, 
186  note 

Cowper,  Anne,  Countess,  at  the 
Hertford  Ball,  334  ;  at  the  Hert- 
ford Bazaar,  347 ;  her  love  of 
waltzing,   177;   her  marriage,  45, 

49 
Cowper,    Peter    Leopold,    5th   Earl, 

14  ;  marriage  of,  45,  49 
Cowper,     Hon.     Edward     Spencer, 

M.P.   for   Hertford,    14,   45,    189, 

19°.  334  5  visit  to,  351 
Cowper,    Mrs.    Henry,    at   Digwell, 

351 

Cradock,  Sir  John,  at  the  Pavilion, 

239 

Craigie  Hall,  119  note,  201 

Cranbourne,  Viscount,  acting  at 
Brighton,  215;  at  Hatfield,  357; 
contests  Hertford,  187-90;  refused 
by  Miss  Wykeham.  See  2nd  Mar- 
quess of  Salisbury 

Cranbourne,  Frances  Mary,  Vis- 
countess, at  Hatfield,  357 

Cranford,  20 

Cranley,  Arthur  George,  Lord,  at 
the  Duchess  of  Bolton's,  42  ;  on 
the  Ministry  of  1809,  136;  turns 
poet  at  Ramsgate,  146-8 

Craven,  Louisa,  Countess  of,  her 
marriage,  90,  91 

Craven,  William,  1st  Earl  of,  his 
marriage,  83 

Craven,  6th  Lord,  156  note 

Crawford,  General  Sir  Charles,  at 
Harewood,  268  ;  at  Vigo,  120 

Crawford,  Mr.,  his  arrest  in  Paris, 
260 

Creevey,  Mrs.,  209 

Creevey  Papers,  The,  on  the  Comte 
de  Flahault,  154  ;  on  Lady  Anson, 
317   note ;    on    Lord   Albemarle's 


INDEX 


395 


marriage,  361  note;  on  the  Prince 
Regent,  239  note ;  on  Sir  John 
Moore,  89 

Cremorne,  Thomas  Dawson,  Vis- 
count, death  of,  198  ;  presents  Mr. 
Calvert  at  Court,  6 

Crewe  House,  125  note 

Critic,  The,  performed  at  Brighton, 
214 

Croft  Castle,  309  note 

Croft,  Sir  Richard,  suicide  of,  309 

Crofton,  Lady,  visits  from,  25,  111 

Croft  on,  Sir  Edward,  M.P.,  25  note 

Crofts,  Richard,  of  West  Harling, 
20  note 

Croker,  Thomas,  25  note 

Cromwell,  Oliver,  his  chairs,  135 

Crosbie,  Pyne,  112  note 

Crosbie,  Very  Rev.  and  Hon.  Mau- 
rice, 112  note 

Cumberland,  Frederica,  Duchess  of, 
at  the  Duchess  of  Montrose's  as- 
sembly, 318  ;  her  income,  317 

Cumberland,  Ernest  Augustus,  King 
of  Hanover  and  Duke  of,  at  Court, 
152;  at  Lady  Salisbury's,  36;  at 
the  Duchess  of  Montrose's  assem- 
bly, 318;  at  the  Prince  Regent's 
ball,  178 ;  at  the  wedding  of 
Baroness  Howe,  190 ;  attempted 
murder  of,  161,  162  ;  his  income, 
317  ;  leaves  England,  320 

Cumberland,  George,  Duke  of,  161 
note 

Cunninghame,  General  Robert.  See 
Baron  Rossmore 

Curzon,  Hon.  Penn  Assheton,  190 

Curzon,  Hon.  Richard,  191  note 

Curzon,  1st  Viscount,  190 

Cussans,  Mr.,  on  Sir  W.  Oldhall,  175 

Cussans,  Mrs.,  plays  Casino,  47 

Custine,  246 

Dacre,  Gertrude,  Lady,  at  Hoo, 
112  ;  her  death,  332 

Dacre,  Lady  (wife  of  20th  Lord),  at 
the  Hertford  Bazaar,  347  ;  at  Hat- 
field, 357 

Dacre,  18th  Lord,  332  note 

Dacre,  Thomas,  20th  Lord,  his  mar- 
riage, 112  note,  246  note,  3157.  See 
Hon.  T.  Brand 

Dacre,  Henry,  21st  Lord.  See  Hon. 
H.  Brand 


Dagnam  Park,  Essex,  34  note 

Dalling  and  Bulwer,  Henry,  Lord, 
149  note 

Dallinger,  Mr.,  190 

Darner,  Colonel  the  Hon.  George, 
17  note 

Darner,  Lady  Caroline,  64 

Danesfield,  Bucks.,  319  note 

Daneskjold-Samsbe,  Christian  Con- 
rad, Court  of,  318  note 

Darmstadt,  284 

Darnley,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of,  at 
Mrs.  Knox's,  246,  323  ;  entertains 
the  Duke  of  Clarence,  181  ;  her 
assemblies,  72  ;  her  balls,  153, 
329 ;  her  relations,  8,  20,  99 ; 
merits  of,  149  ;  visits  to,  and  from, 
8,  188,  199 

Darnley,  Earl  of,  his  daughter, 
163  note ;  his  retort  to  the 
Duchess  of  Gordon,  64  ;  his  win- 
dows smashed,  241,  242 ;  Mrs. 
Calvert  on,  188  ;  on  Isabella  Cal- 
vert, 154  ;  visits  to,  8,  29,  148 

Dashwood,  Anna  Maria,  marriage 
of,  158,  161.     See  Lady  Ely 

Dashwood,  Georgiana,  her  marriage 
to  Sir  J.  Astley,  324 

Dashwood,  Sir  Henry  Watkin,  29 
note,  158  note,  324  note 

David,  M.,  in  Brussels,  276 

Davies,  Colonel,  M.  P.  for  Worcester, 
321 

Davy,  Lady,  both  brown  and  blue, 
309,  310;  her  assemblies,  310; 
Madame  de  StaeTs  letter  to,  209 
note 

Davy,  Sir  Humphry,  at  dinner 
with,  317  ;  his  career,  317  note 

Dawson,  Thomas  Townley,  307  note. 
See  Viscount  Cremorne 

Deal,  91,  227  note 

—  Felix  Calvert  at,  122,  138 

De  Clifford,  Sophia,  Lady,  governess 
to  the  Princess  Charlotte,  30,  193 

De  Clifford,  Edward,  Lord,  38 
note 

Delany,  Mrs.,  her  Memoirs,  348 

Delap,  Mrs.,  visit  from,  246 

Delap,  William  Drummond,  his 
marriage,  246  note.     See  Dunlop 

Delhi,  battle  of,  50  note,  94  note 

Delmar,  Baron,  marriage  of,  240  note 

Denison,  Joseph,  351  note 


39^ 


INDEX 


Denman,    Thomas,    1st    Lord,   309 

note 
Denmark,  peace  with,  21 5 

—  King  of,  his  daughter,  308,  311 

—  Prince  of,  at  Lansdowne  House, 
362 

Denn,  James,  265  note 
Denon,  M.,  in  Paris,  296 
Deptford,   Peter   the    Great   at,    303 

note 
Derby,   Elizabeth,   Countess  of,  her 

assemblies,  44,  343 
Derby,    Edward,    12th    Earl   of,    44 

note 
Derby,  Edward  Smith,  13th  Earl  of, 

328  note 
Dering,  Cholmeley,  marriage  of,  138 
Dering,  Lady,  at  Ramsgate,  145 
Dering,  Sir  Edward,  138  note 
Derry,  Bishop  of.  See  Earl  of  Bristol 

and  Rt.  Rev.  William  Knox 
Deux  Prisonniers,  Les,  216 
De  Vere,  Sir  Aubrey,  345  note 
De  Vesci,  Thomas,  Viscount,  at  Mrs. 

Knox's,    55 ;    his    death,   20 ;   his 

sister,  62 
De  Vesci,  Viscountess,  her  death,  11 
Devil  to  Pay,  The,  83 
Devis,  Mrs.,  her  school,  14,  15,  24, 

37,  52,  57,  68,  152,  166 
Devonshire,  William,  4th  Duke  of, 

309  note 
Devonshire,  William,  5th  Duke  of, 

his     marriages,     2X1,     308;     his 

threatened    retirement,     130;     his 

wife's  debts,  64 
Devonshire,    William    Spencer,    6th 

Duke  of,  his  legitimacy  disputed, 

308 ;    his   rumoured    engagement, 

103,  154 
Devonshire,  William,    7th  Duke  of, 

309  note 
Devonshire,  Georgiana,  Duchess  of, 

death  of,   64 ;    debts  of,  65  ;   her 

daughters,  149 
Devonshire    House,    assemblies    at, 

162 
Dieppe,  257 
Digby,   Edward,  2nd  Earl,  at  Lord 

Limerick's,  71 
Digby,     Rev.     William,     Dean     of 

Durham,  34  note 
Digwell,  visit  to,  351 
Dijon,  visit  to,  1817,  294 


Dillon,    Viscount,     on    the     Royal 

Nursery  at  Hunsdon  House,  175 
Dimsdale,  Baroness,  visit  to,  51 
Donkey-riding  at  Brighton,  184 
Doran,  Dr. ,  on  Caractacus,  99  note  ; 
Their  Majesties'  Servants,  143  note 
Dorking,  331 

Dorset,  Duchess  of,  her  ball,  155 
Dorset,   George,   4th  Duke  of,   pro- 
posed marriage  of,  232  ;  death  of, 
232  note 
Douglas,  Lady  (Duchess  of  Hamil- 
ton), 145  ;  plays  Casino,  45 
Douglas,  Lady  Francis,  her  assembly, 

262 
Douglas,  Lord,  marriage  of,  145 
Douglas,   Mr.,   acts  in    The   Critic, 

214,  215  ;  death  of,  334 
Douro,  Baron,  141.     See  Wellington 
Dover,  121,  227  note,  315,  331 

—  Louis  XVIII  at,  220 

—  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  304 

—  panorama  of,  230 

Down  and  Connor,  Bishop  of,  6  note 

Downshire,  Wills,  1st  Marquess  of, 
12,  36  note 

Doyle,  Sir  John,  his  snuff-box,  55 

Dress  in  1805,  33 

Drummond,  George,  88 

Drummond,  Mrs.,  adopts  the  waltz, 
199 

Drury  Lane  Theatre,  67  ;  destroyed 
by  fire,  125 

Dublin,  Archbishop  of,  38 ;  birth- 
place of  Sheridan,  76  note 

—  Henry  Grattan,  M.P.  for,  73  note 

—  Sir  J.  Stronge  in,   168 

—  visits  to,  3,  362,  364 
Duckett,  Sir  George,  49 
Duckworth,      Admiral      Sir      John 

Thomas,  defeats  the  French  fleet, 

64 
Dudley,    Lord,    at    Lydia    White's, 

213  note 
Dufferin,  Baroness,  352  note 
Dufferin,   Anne,   Lady,    visit   from, 

246 
Dufferin    and    Clandeboye,    James, 

2nd  Lord,  his  marriage,  246  note 
Dun,  Angus,  31  note 
Dunalley,  Henry  Prittie,  1st  Baron, 

marriage  of,  212  note 
Dunalley,   Henry,    2nd   Baron,    334 

note 


INDEX 


397 


Dunalley,  Catherine,  Lady,  her  dinner 

party,  212 
Dunalley,   Maria,  Lady,  her  death, 

334 

Duncannon,  Lord,  75 

Dundas,  Henry.  See  Viscount  Mel- 
ville 

Dundas,  Robert,  40  note,  177  note 

Dundas,  Sir  David,  career  of,  128 
and  note 

Dundonald,  10th  Earl.  See  Lord 
Cochrane 

Duneira,  Baron.  See  Viscount  Mel- 
ville 

Dungannon,  seat  of  Lord  Ranfurly, 
4  note,  7,  363 

—  illness  of  T.  Knox  at,  131,   135, 

137 

Dungannon,  1st  Viscount,  25  note 

Dungarvan,  211  note 

Dunkettle,  334  note 

Dunlop,    William    Drummond,    246 

note 
Dunmore,  Queen's  Co.,  364  note 
Dunnottar,  217  note 
Dunraven,  1st  Earl  of,  marriage  of, 

161  note 
Dunraven,    Windham    Henry,    2nd 

Earl  of,  marriage  of,  162  note 
Dunraven  Castle,  162  note 
Dupont,  General,  his  surrender,  108, 

no 
Du  Pre,  Josiah,  316  note 
Duras,  Amedee  Bretagne  Malo,  Due 

de,  291  note 
Duras,   Duchesse   de,   her  house  in 

Paris,  291 
Dursley,     Viscount.       See    Colonel 

Berkeley 
Dutton,  James  Lennox,  349  note 

East  Burnham,  Bucks,  78  note 

East  family,  the,  visits  from,  no, 
123 

Easton  Lodge,  8 

Eckersall,  John,  144 

Eden,  Hon.  Caroline,  186  note.  See 
Mrs.  Vansittart 

Eden,  Hon.  Mr.,  death  of,  153 

Edgeworth,  Maria,  at  Lydia  White's, 
213  note 

Edinburgh,  Miss  Elphinstone's  mar- 
riage at,  154 

—  Scottish  National  Gallery,  196 


Edmondsbury,  visits  to,  9  note,    10, 

364 
Edward  I,  174 
Edward  VI  at  Hunsdon,  175 
Egerton,  General  and  Mrs.,  at  Tynan 

Abbey,  363  ;  their  assembly,  264 
Egerton,  Lady  Grey,  her  ball,  316 
Egerton,  Rev.  Sir  Philip,  316  note 
Eglinton,  Lord,  39 
Egmont,  1st  Earl  of,  184  note 
Ego,  Councillor,  194 
Egremont,  Lord,  his  natural  daughter, 

204 
Elba,  Napoleon  at,  219,  221,  222,  243 
Elbe,  the,  22 
Elgin,  Lady,  30  note 
Eliot,  Lady,  her  assembly  put  off,  98 
Elizabeth,  Queen,  135  ;  at  Hunsdon, 

175,  177 

Elizabeth,  Princess,  at  Court,  33,  152, 
:94,  195,  264;  at  the  Regent's 
ball,  195,  224  ;  her  commission  for 
Mrs.  Calvert,  304,  312  ;  her 
marriage,  264  note,  307,  310,  312, 
314  ;  letters  to  and  from,  285,  288 

Elizabeth,  Princess,  birth  and  death 

of,  35i,  353 
Ellenborough,     Edward     Law,     1st 

Baron,  278  note  ;  at  Hatfield,  107  ; 

passes  sentence  on  Lord  Cochrane, 

231 
Ellenborough,  Lady,  her  assemblies, 

200,  310  ;  portrait  resembling,  278 
Ellice,  Rt.  Hon.  Edward,  349  note 
Elphinstone,    Charles,     10th    Lord, 

352  note 
Elphinstone,    Margaret    Mercer,    at 

Covent  Garden,  258 ;  her  career, 

154;     her     friendship    with     the 

Princess  Charlotte,  224 ;  her  love 

of  waltzing,  199  ;  her  marriage  to 

M.  de  Flahault,  154,  272 
Ely,   Anna  Maria,    Marchioness   of, 

marriage  of,  158,  161 
Ely,  1st  Marquess  of,  29.     See  also 

Lord  Loftus 
Ely,  John  Loftus,  2nd  Marquess  of, 

marriage  of,  158 
Ely,  Prebendary  of,  126  note 
Emly,  of  Tervoe,  Lord,  376 
Encke's  Comet,  331 
Endymion,  H.M.S.,  120 
Engayne  family,  the,  175 
Enghien,  Due  d',  execution  of,  15 


39« 


INDEX 


Engleheart,  George,  his  miniature  of 

Felix  Calvert,  97 
English  Opera  House,  London,  356 
Enniskillen,  1st  Earl  of,  43,  48  note 
Epsom  Races,  355 

Eresby,  Lord  Willoughby  d',  211  note 
Ermin  Street,  174 
Errington,  Mr.,  77 
Erroll,  William  George,  17th  Earl  of, 

at    Mrs.    Calvert's  ball,   342 ;    his 

marriage,  351 
Erskine,  Harry,  39 
Erskine,  John,  31  note 
Erskine,  Sir  James  St.   Clair.      See 

Earl  of  Rosslyn 
Erskine,   Thomas,   Lord,   vanity  of, 

194 
Escars,    Due  and   Duchesse    d',    in 

Paris,  298 
Eshe,  Durham,  82  note 
Essex,  Catherine,  Countess  of,  269 

note 
Essex,  Sarah,  Countess  of,  her  card- 
party,  247  ;  visit  to,  269  note,  270 
Essex,  George  Capel,  5th  Earl  of,  at 

Cassiobury,    269 ;    his    marriage, 

258  note,  269  note 
Esterhazy,  Princess,  at  Lady  Castle- 

reagh's,  341 
Esther    performed    at   Windsor,    35 
Eton  boys  at  Windsor,  35 
European  Museum,  135 
Eurotas,  H.M.S.,  220  note 
Eustace,    Colonel,   returns  from   St. 

Petersburg,  93 
Evans,  maid,  285 
Evening  Statesman,  28  note 
Ewart,  Captain,  is  wounded,    109  ; 

on  Felix  Calvert,  94,  100 
Ewart,  Miss,  41  note 
Exeter  Change,  visit  to,  1820,  341 
Eyre,  Colonel,  his  son's  death,  173 

Fagelles,     Mesdemoiselles     de,     in 

Brussels,  275 
Fairview,  Armagh,  168 
Fane,  Lady  Augusta,  21  note 
Farnborough,  29  note 
Farquhar,  Sir  Walter,  miniature  of, 

116;    physician   to   the  Prince  of 

Wales,  7,  67,  91  note 
Farren,    Elizabeth,    44.      See    Lady 

Derby 
Father  and  His  Children,  305 


Fauconberg,  Henry,  last  Earl  of,  21 

note 
Feilde,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  at  Hunsdon, 

332 

FtHicite-,  H.M.S.,  141 

Feltre,  Due  de,  244 

Ferdinand  VII  of  Spain,  his  mar- 
riage, 335 

Ferguson,  General,  117 

Ferguson,  Sir  A.,  360  note 

Fermanagh,  Baroness,  buys  May 
Place,  8 

Fern  Tower,  Perthshire,  171 

Ferrybridge,  268 

Firle,  visit  to,  85-7 

FitzClarence  family,  sons  of  William 
IV,  17 

FitzClarence,  Captain,  seizes  Cato 
Street  conspirators,  339.  See  Earl 
of  Munster 

FitzClarence,  Elizabeth,  her  marriage 
to  Lord  Erroll,  351 

FitzClarence,  Miss,  at  Lady  Darn- 
ley's,  181  ;  at  Mr.  Knox's,  180 

Fitzgerald,  Caroline.  See  Countess 
of  Kingston 

FitzGerald,  Lady  Charlotte,  342  note 

Fitzgerald,  Richard,  9  note 

FitzGibbon,  Lady  Isabella,  her 
debut,  199;  her  education,  115; 
Mrs.  Calvert  on,  no 

Fitzhardinge,  Earl,  187 

Fitzherbert,  Mrs.,  at  Brighton,  82, 
89 ;  at  Lady  Clermont's,  224 ; 
attends  Mrs.  Calvert's  assembly, 
15;  characteristics  of,  16;  her 
adopted  child,  17,  26 ;  her  as- 
semblies, 32,  37,  76,  83,  84,  137 
note,  213;  her  balls,  214,  259, 
265  ;  her  friends,  24,  30,  31,  47  ; 
her  newspapers,  84;  her  rupture 
with  the  Prince  of  Wales,  10,  12, 
80,  90,  162  ;  her  secret  marriage, 
77  ;  her  sister's  coolness,  139 ;  in- 
troduction to,  8  ;  visits  to,  81,  89, 
9i,  183 

FitzRoy,  General  Sir  Charles,  his 
attachment  to  Princess  Amelia, 
248  ;  his  marriage,  277  note 

FitzRoy,  Georgina  Frederica,  her 
marriage  to  Lord  Worcester,  233, 
234 

FitzRoy,  Hon.  Henry,  234  note,  340 
note,  354  note 


INDEX 


399 


Flahault,   Comte    de,   marriage   of, 

154,  272 
Fleming,  Admiral,  goes  to  Gibraltar, 

220 
Flint,  Miss,  105 
Flodden  Field,  175 
Florence,  212  note,  319 

—  Casa  Standish,  259  note 
Fludyer,  George,  146  note 
Flushing,  surrender  of,  139 

Foley,  Miss,  her  marriage  to  Lord 

Gage,  199 
Foley,  Mr.,  at  Lady  Grey  Egerton  s, 

316 
Fontainebleau,  visit  to,  1817,  295 
Fonthill  Abbey,  39  note 
Forbes,  Lord,  32  note 
Forbes,  Mr.,  marriage  of,  131 
Forester,  Cecil  Weld,  1st  Lord,  298 

note 
Forde,  Catherine,  death  of,  99 
Forde,  Matthew,  99  note 
Fortescue,  Thomas,  261  note 
Fortune's  Frolic ',  57 
Forty  Thieves ,  The,  67 
Foster,   Hon.    Anne   Dorothea,   her 

marriage  to  Lord  Dufferin,  246  note 
Foster,    J.    J.,    British     Miniature 

Painters  and  their  Works,  97  note 
Foster,  John  Thomas,  308  note 
Foster,   Lady   Elizabeth,    her    mar- 
riages, 211,  308 
Foster,  Rt.  Rev.  William,  Bishop  of 

Clogher,  246  note 
Foston,  Yorks.,  127  note 
Fox,  Charles    James,    death   of,    75 

note;  his  political  career,  15,  136 

note;  owner  of  Melbourne  House,  95 
Fox  -  Strangways,      Lady      Frances 

Muriel,  161  note 
Francis  I,  286  note,  295 
Francis  II,   Emperor  of  Austria,  in 

Paris,  256,  258 
Frankfort,  307  note 

—  Napoleon  at,  212 

—  visit  to,  1817,  282 
Franks,  Frederick,  351 
Fraser,  Simon,  144  note 
Frederick,  King  of  Wurtemburg,  285 

note 
Frederick    William   III   of  Prussia, 
198 ;  his  loss  of  his  wife,  229  ;  in 
London,  223,  224,  229  ;  in  Paris, 
256,  300 


Freemantle,  Captain,  brings  des- 
patches from  Vittoria,  202 

French  Fleet,  destroyed  by  Lord 
Cochrane,  133 

French  Revolution,  outbreak  of,  6,  7 

Freudeneck,  M.  l'Envoye,  at  Berne, 
290 

Fribourg,  visit  to,  1817,  292 

Friend,  John.     See  Robinson 

Frogmore,  Fete  Champetre  at,  41 

Frost  Fair  on  the  Thames,  1814,  216 

Fuller,  Colonel,  86 

Fulmer,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  188 

Fundy,  Bay  of,  377 

Funen,  Island  of,  109 

Furneaux  Pelham,  Lord  and  Lady 
Pery's  funerals  at,  62  note,  354 

Gaddeston  Park,  visit  to,  ill 
Gage,  Gen.   the  Hon.   Thomas,  86 

note 
Gage,  Mrs.,  her  ball,  262 
Gage,  Henry,  3rd  Viscount,  death  of, 

93  ;  visit  to,  85-7 
Gage,  4th  Viscount  and  Viscountess, 

at  dinner  with,  228;  theirmarriage, 

199 
Gage,  Viscountess,  at  the  Pavilion, 

81  ;  visit  to,  85-7 
Gainsborough,  Thomas,  his  portrait 

of  Lady  Graham,  196 
Ganymede,  H. M.S.,  160 
Garcia,  Signor,  227  note 
Gardiner,    Rt.    Hon.    Charles,    275 

note 
Garrod,  Sir  William,  218 
Gascoyne,  Bamber,  357  note 
Gavin,  David,  her  marriage,  202  note 
Gavin,  Lady  Betty,  at  Edmond  Knox's 

wedding,  202 
Gay,  John,  his  Beggars'  Opera,   65 

note,  258  note 
Geneva,  317  note 

—  Lady  Stronge  at,  318,  323 

—  visit  to,  181 7,  292 

Genlis,    Madame    de,   Souvenirs    de 

FJlicie,  266  note 
Gennap,  252 
George  I,  262 
George  II,  51  note,  102 
George  III,  84  note;  at  Weymouth, 

6 ;     caresses     Felix     Calvert,    9  ; 

estranged  from  the  Prince,  18  ;  his 

birthdays,  46,  92,   137,    152;    his 


400 


INDEX 


children,  161  note,  285  note,  307 
note,  318  note;  his  death,  338; 
his  illness  and  cure,  1789,  5  ;  his 
illness,  181 1,  179  ;  his  insanity,  13, 

15,  95  note,  169;  his  jubilee,  145; 
his  physicians,  91  note,  104  note  ; 
reconciled  to  Prince  of  Wales,  23, 
24 ;  refuses  to  hear  details  of 
Castlereagh-Canning  duel,  144 ; 
reports  of  his  death,  51,  118 

George  IV,  as  Prince  of  Wales, 
Prince  Regent,  and  King,  his  mar- 
riage, 8,  10;   at  Brighton,  8,   12, 

16,  81  ;  petition  to,  9 ;  attends 
Mrs.  Calvert's  assembly,  15;  his 
relations  with  Mrs.  Fitzherbert,  16, 
16,  77  ;  his  birthday,  18  ;  his  notice 
of  the  Calvert  children,  18,  30; 
reconciled  with  his  father,  23,  24  ; 
his  likeness  to  Lord  Loftus,  29 ; 
his  coldness  to  Mr.  Calvert,  32, 
34  ;  at  Court,  33,  194,  224,  245  ; 
frequent  meetings  with,  36,  37,  45, 
76,  77,  79,  80,  137 ;  on  Lord  Mel- 
ville, 40  ;  40,  68  ;  on  the  Duchess  of 
Devonshire,  64  note  ;  his  illnesses, 
72,  262 ;  his  relations  with  his 
wife,  74,  200,  222,  225,  231,  338, 
343  ;  builds  the  Pavilion,  74  ;  in 
love  with  Lady  Hertford,  80,  90  ; 
his  physicians,  91  note  ;  at  Lady 
Tavistock's  wedding,  108  ;  receives 
anonymous  letter,  125  ;  absent  from 
Court,  152 ;  at  Mrs.  St.  John's, 
162  ;  as  a  patron  of  the  arts,  163  ; 
becomes  Regent,  169,  170 ;  his 
dislike  of  girls,  177;  his  ball,  181 1, 
178;  his  unpopularity,  184-6,222, 
225,  229,  232,  272,  335  ;  his  balls 
at  Carlton  House,  193,  195,  321, 
331;  at  Mrs.  Thompson's,  200; 
on  Nicolson  Calvert,  203  ;  receives 
Mrs.  Calvert  at  the  Pavilion,  203-7, 
238-41,  259,  327,  328,  351  ;  in  the 
fog  of  1814,  214  note;  his  levees, 
221,  328  ;  at  Lady  Stafford's,  223  ; 
his  fete  at  Carlton  House,  226, 233  ; 
at  White's  ball,  229,  230  ;  at  Lady 
Salisbury's,  246 ;  at  Lord  Bath- 
urst's,  248  ;  interferes  in  Princess 
Amelia's  love  affairs,  248  ;  on 
Prince  Leopold,  263  ;  prevents  his 
brother's  marriage,  311  note,  313  ; 
prorogues  Parliament,  319,  331  ;  at 


Lady  Hertford's,  329 ;  opens  Par- 
liament, 335  ;  accession  of,  338  ; 
his  Court,    344 ;    his   coronation, 

355 
George,  Sir  Rupert,  head  of  the  trans- 
port office,  121 
Germaine,  George,  376 
Ghent,  240 

Gibbs,  Colonel,  at  Brighton,  327 
Gibbs,     General,     killed     at     New 

Orleans,  242 
Gibraltar,  Earl  of  Chatham,  Governor 

of,  141 
—  Felix  Calvert  at,  217,  220 
Gilbertson,  Mr.,  178 
Giles,  Mr.,  at  Digwell,  351 ;  declaims 

against     the     Regent,     226 ;      of 

Youngsburg,  50 
Gillow,  Mr.,  23 
GlenarvoHy  46 

Glenbervie,  Lord,  his  son's  death,  334 
Glenlyon,   James,   Lord,    145    note. 

See  Lord  James  Murray 
Glentworth,  Lord,  enters  the  army, 

90-2 ;    his    imprudent    marriage, 

98-101,  107,  no,  218 
Globe,  The,  117 
Gloucester,  Bishop  of,  34 
Gloucester  cheese,  36 
Gloucester  House,  assembly  at,  318 
Gloucester,   Maria,    Duchess   of,   31 

note  ;  death  of,  84 
Gloucester,    Mary,    Duchess    of,    at 

Brighton,    327,     328;    at    Court, 

344;  her  assembly,  318;  visit  to, 

358 

Gloucester,  1st  Duke  of,  40  note 

Gloucester,  William  Henry,  Duke  of, 
31  note  ;  death  of,  51 

Gloucester,  William  Frederick,  Duke 
of,  at  Miss  Noel's  ball,  79 ;  at 
Mrs.  Calvert's  dance,  342  ;  at  Mrs. 
Knox's,  100,  154,  199,  247;  at  the 
Duchesse  de  San  Carlos's  ball, 
336  ;  at  the  Prince  Regent's  ball, 
178,  195  ;  at  Wimbledon,  103  ;  his 
marriage,  84  note,  248 

Glover,  Mr.,  49 

Gobelin,  Giles,  his  tapestry,  286, 
300 

Goddard,  John,  346  note 

Godolphin,  Lady  Mary  Henrietta. 
See  Lady  Chichester 

Gog  Magog,  visit  to,  322 


INDEX 


401 


Gordon,  Jean  Maxwell,  Duchess  of, 
abuses  Ireland  to  Lord  Darnley, 
64;  death  of,  183;  dinners  with, 
31,  39  ;  her  grief  for  Pitt,  61  ;  re- 
torts on  Lord  Lauderdale,  74 

Gordon,  Alexander,  4th  Duke  of,  his 
children,  32  note,  144  note,  183 

Gordon,  Jean,  115  note 

Gordon,  Lady  (Caroline),  in  Paris, 
296 

Gordon,  Lady  Catherine  Susan,  144 
note  ;  her  marriage  to  Mr.  Caven- 
dish, 221 

Gordon,  Mrs.,  347 

Gordon,  Sir  John,  112  note 

Gordon,  Sir  William  Duff,  in  Paris, 
296 

Gore,  Francis,  Governor  of  Granada, 
352  note 

Gort,  Charles  Vereker,  Viscount,  his 
career,  44  note 

Gosford,  Arthur,  1st  Earl  of,  162  note 

Gosselin,  Captain,  to  Sweden  and 
Spain  with  Sir  John  Moore,  144 

Gottenburgh  Roads,  101,  102 

Goulburn,  Mr.,  marriage  of,  182 

Gould,  Sir  Henry,  88  note 

Gower,  Lord,  at  dinner  with,  101 

Grafton,  Duke  of,  248 

Graham,  Lady,  her  portrait  by 
Gainsborough,  196 

Graham,  Lord,  at  Almack's,  329 ;  at 
Brighton,  353.  See  Duke  of 
Montrose 

Graham,  Miss,  124 

Graham,  Sir  Thomas,  at  Court,  195  ; 
at  St.  Sebastian,  204,  208  ;  career 
of,  197 ;  his  aide-de-camp,  Felix 
Calvert,  159,  172,  182,  187,239; 
in  command  in  Holland,  212,  218; 
Mrs.  Calvert  on,  196,  211  ;  passes 
over  Felix  Calvert,  209-212,  223  ; 
wounded  at  Tortosa,  202.  See 
Lord  Lynedoch 

Grammont,  Count  of,  popularity  of, 
214 

Granada,  Governor  of,  352  note 

Grandison,  Lord,  his  daughter,  43 

Grantham,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  131,  132, 
268 

Grantham,  Thomas  Philip,  Lord, 
241  ;  his  children's  ball,  328 ; 
marriage  of,  48.  See  Earl  de 
Grey 


Grantham,  Lady,  her  fancy  dress 
ball,  318 

Granville,  Harriet,  Lady,  Ambassa- 
dress in  Paris,  149 ;  on  Katherine 
Long,  180  note;  on  Mme.  de 
Flahault,  154 

Grattan,  Henry,  M.P.  for  Dublin, 
73  note ;  on  Lord  Pery,  44 ;  on 
the  Catholic  question,  73 

Green,  J.  R.,  Short  History  of  the 
English  People,  237  note,  262 

Green,  Misses,  112 

Greenwich,  59 

Grenville,  General,  on  the  Duke  of 
Clarence,  312 

Grenville,  Lord,  at  dinner  with,  78  ; 
his  party  in  disfavour,  186;  his 
retirement,  130 

Gretford,  85  note 

Greville,  Colonel,  founds  the  Argyle 
Rooms,  265  note 

Greville,  Lady  Augusta,  her  rumoured 
engagement,  103.  See  Lady  Ayles- 
bury 

Greville  Memoirs,  311  note 

Greville-Nugent,  Col.  Fulke,  71  note 

Greville  of  Clonyn,  Lord,  71  note 

Grey,  Thomas  Philip,  Earl  de,  mar- 
riage of,  48 

Grey,  Charles,  Earl,  his  daughter, 
115;  his  threatened  retirement, 
130  ;  ministry  of,  4  note  ;  succeeds 
to  the  title,  1807,  77  note 

Grey,  Mr.,  visit  from,  248 

Grimston,  Hon.  Charlotte  and 
Frances  Cooke,   22,  37 

Grimston,  Hon.  James  Walter,  mar- 
riage of,  72 

Grimston,  James,  3rd  Viscount,  his 
death,  118;  his  family,  22,  72; 
visit  from,  37 

Grimston,  James  Walter,  4th  Vis- 
count, at  Lord  Grantham's  ball, 
328  ;  his  succession  to  the  title, 
72  note.     See  Earl  of  Verulam 

Guadaloupe,  capture  of,  155 

Guernsey,  Felix  Calvert  at,  270 

Guido  Reni,  pictures  by,  278 

Gun-Cuninghame,  George,  115  note 

Gunn,  the  Misses,  at  Geneva,  294  ; 
at  Paine's  Hill,  115 

Gunning,  Mr.,  at  Almack's,  340 

Gustavus  IV  of  Sweden,  deposition 
of,  129 


2  D 


402 


INDEX 


Haarlem,  visit  to,  1817,  302 
Hadham,  105 

Haggerston,  Lady,  a  beautiful  grand- 
mother, 83  ;  at  Brighton,  82;  visit 

from,  139 
Haggerston,  Sir  Carnaby,  82  note 
Haggerston  Castle,  82  note 
Haggett,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  at  Mading- 

ley,  350 
Haileybury  College,  Calvert  boys  at, 

68,    10 1  ;    Professor    Malthus   at, 

144;  removes  to  Hertford  Castle, 

138 
Hale,  Mr.,  his  daughter,  52 
Hale,  Mrs.,  at  Hatfield,  357 
Hale,  Charlotte,  her  marriage,  138 
Halifax,  Earl  of,  374 
Hall,  Miss,  at  Harewood,  268 
Hallam,  Henry,  at  Lydia  White's, 

213  note 
Halsey,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  visit  to,  III, 

112 
Hamburg,  22,  342 ;  French  in  pos- 
session of,  201 
Hamilton,    Archibald,   of   Carcluie, 

39  note 
Hamilton,  Charles  John  Baillie,  85 

note 
Hamilton,  Colonel  and  Mrs.,  adopt 

Jane    Hope    Vere,    41,    201  ;    at 

dinner   with,    41,    47,    93  ;    visit 

from,  58 
Hamilton,    Susan,    Duchess  of,   her 

son,  31  ;  her  unhappy  life,  145 
Hamilton,  9th  Duke  of,  344  note 
Hamilton,  Alexander,  10th  Duke  of, 

39  note 
Hamilton,  William,   nth  Duke  of, 

284  note,  295  note 
Hamilton,  Jane,  her  marriage  to  Mr. 

Plumer,  361 
Hamilton,    Lady   Anne,    entertains 

Queen  Caroline,  344 
Hamilton,  Lady  Catherine,  marriage 

of,  47 
Hamilton,   Lady  Cecil  Frances,  46 

note 
Hamilton,  Lady  Maria,  death  of,  215 
Hamilton,  Lord  Archibald,  deafness 

°f»  3*>  39  '■>   his  motion  re  Queen 

Caroline,  352 
Hamilton,  Lord  Claud,  his  death  at 

Madeira,  114 
Hamilton,  Lord  Douglas,  39 


Hamilton,  Lord  Montgomerie,  39 

Hamilton,  Miss,  Memoirs  of  Agrip- 
pina,  26 

Hamilton,  Rev.  Frederick,  295  note 

Hamilton,  Rev.  the  Hon.  George, 
Canon  of  Windsor,  46  note  ;  361 
note 

Hamilton,  Sir  Charles,  at  Ports- 
mouth, 88 

Hamilton,  John,  Viscount,  his  ill- 
ness and  death,  135-7,  224 

Hamilton,  William  Gerard,  his  letter 
to  Viscount  Pery,  374 

Hammond,  Rev.  Mr.,  23,  27 

Hampden,  Lady,  her  assemblies,  225 

Hampton  Court,  visit  to,  88 

Hanbury,  Mrs.,  347 

Handcock,  Elizabeth,  4 

Handcock,  Robert,  4 

Hanover  Square  Rooms,  329 

Harberton,  Esther,  Viscountess,  242 
note  ;  at  Lady  Pery's,  133 

Harberton,  John,  4th  Viscount,  133 
note 

Harcourt,  Lady,  plays  Casino,  33, 
38;  visit  to,  188 

Hardvvicke,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of, 
dinners  with,  43 ;  entertains 
Burke  and  Sheridan,  92  note  ;  her 
marriage,  295  note ;  loses  her 
voice,  76 

Hardwicke,  PhilipYorke,  3rd  Earl  of, 
at  dinner  with,  313;  charges 
brought  against,  130;  his  family, 
98  note,  159,  160,  295  ;  Lord- 
Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  43  and  note 

Hardwicke,  4th  Earl  of,  succeeds  to 
the  title,  131  note 

Hardwicke,  John  Yorke,  5th  Earl  of, 
76  note 

Hare,  Major,  brings  despatches  from 
St.  Sebastian,  208,  223 

Hare,  Miss,  15 1 

Hare,  Mr.,  acts  in   The  Critic,  214, 

215 
Harefield  Park,  263  note 
Harewood,    Edward    Lascelles,     1st 

Earl  of,  visit  to,  268 
Harewood,  visit  to,  268 
Harland,  Admiral  Sir   Robert,   348 

note 
Harley,     Edward,     Lord,    at    Mrs. 

Calvert's  ball,  342 
Harrington,  2nd  Earl  of,  268  note 


INDEX 


403 


Harrow,  13,  18,  347  note;  Felix 
Calvert  at,  43  ;  headmastership  of, 
39,  40,  97  note ;  reputation  of, 
26  ;  Speech  Day  at,  248  ;  William 
Calvert  at,  319 

Harrowby,  Lord,  his  Cabinet  dinner, 

339 

Hartington,  Lord,  reported  engage- 
ment of,  103 

Hartwell,  220  note 

Harwich,  342 

Hastings,  Barony  of,  324  note.  See 
Sir  J.  Astley 

Hastings,  General,  55 

Hastings,  Sir  Charles,  194 

Hatfield  House,  Assize  dinners  at, 
79,  107,  138,  187,  233,  346,  351, 
357  ;  balls  at,  49,  142,  208  ;  fire 
at,  36  note 

Hawkesbury,  Lord,  in  the  Ministry, 
28,  72 

Hay,  Captain,  in  Paris,  298 

Hay,  Lady  Elizabeth,  bridesmaid  to 
Jane  Hope  Vere,  201  ;  her  mar- 
riage to  James  Hope  Vere,  201  note 

Hay,  the  Ladies,  at  Edmond  Knox's 
wedding,  202 

Haymarket  Theatre,  358 

Haynes,  Samuel,  112  note 

Hazlitt,  William,  his  portrait  of 
Joseph  Lancaster,  162  note 

Headfort,  Mary,  Countess  of,  at 
Mrs.  Knox's,  55  ;  her  assembly, 
34 ;  her  ball,  80 ;  her  box  at 
Drury  Lane,  67  ;  visit  from,  59 

Headfort,  Thomas,  2nd  Earl  of,  34 
note 

Headfort,  1st  Marquis  of,  291  note 

Hearn,  Caroline,  22 

Heberden,  Dr.,  5  note 

Heckneld,  8  note 

Heidelberg,  visit  to,  181 7,  283 

Helena,  Princess,  318  note 

Henderson,  Charlotte  Newman,  363 
note 

Henderson,  John  Piercy,  363  note 

Henry  IV,  57,  350,  356 

Henry  VIII,   his   life   at    Hunsdon, 

175 

Heron,  Lady,  12 

Hertford,  Balls  in,  149,  220,  334, 
338,  346,  357 

Hertford,  Duke  of  Wellington  a  free- 
man of,  233 


Hertford  Fair,  347 

Hertford,  its  representation  in  Par- 
liament, 14,  29  note,  125,  189; 
visits  in,  51,  143 

Hertford  Castle,  12,  13;  Haileybury 
School  removes  to,  138 

Hertford,  Isabella,  Marchioness  of, 
at  the  Pavilion,  238  ;  her  assem- 
blies, 45,  185,  329;  her  relations 
with  the  Prince,  80,  90,  162,  185, 
352  ;  her  sister,  204  ;  insulted  by 
the  mob,  335 

Hertford,  1st  Marquess  of,  17  note 

Hertford,  Francis,  2nd  Marquess  of, 
80  note,  162  note 

Hertford  Mercury y  obituary  notice 
of  Lt. -General  Calvert,  376-9 

Hervey,  Colonel  and  Mrs.,  in 
Brussels,  279 

Hervey,  Lady  Elizabeth.    See  Foster 

Hesse-Cassel,  Princess  Augusta  of, 
265  note;  her  marriage,  308,  314, 
319  note 

Hesse-Homburg,  Elizabeth,  Duchess 
of,  317  ;  her  marriage,  322,  330 

Hesse-Homburg,  Frederick,  Prince 
of,  264  note ;  his  marriage,  307, 
308  note,  310,  312,  314,  322 

Hesse-Meiningen,  Princess  of,  316 

Hillsborough,  Lord,  376 

Hinchinbrooke,  Louise,  Lady,  37 

Hinchinbrooke,  George  John  Mon- 
tagu, Lord,  37  note 

Hoare,  Mr.,  in  theatricals  at 
Brighton,  215 

Hobart  House,  153 

Hobart,  Misses,  207 

Hoddesdon,  105,  237 

Holkham,  317  note;  visits  to,  4, 
348,  357 

Holkar  defeats  Lord  Lake,  50 

Holland,  insurrection  in,  212  ;  un- 
annexed  by  Napoleon,  150,  151 

Holland,  Elizabeth,  Lady,  at  Cassio- 
bury,  269,  270  ;  at  Lady  Davy's, 
311  ;  at  Lady  Spencer's,  97;  her 
Journal,  287  note  ;  her  marriages, 
269  note  ;  on  Madame  de  Stael, 
209 

Holland,  Canon  Francis,  310  note 

Holland,  Richard,  3rd  Lord,  at  Cas- 
siobury,  269 

Holland,  Sir  Henry,  his  career,  310 

Holland  House,  129 


4o4 


INDEX 


Holmes,  William,  at  Edmond  Knox's 
wedding,  202  ;  brings  news  of  Bar- 
ossa,  172  ;  interviews  Mr.  Calvert, 
166  ;  sends  news  of  Felix  Calvert, 
223,  235,  250 

Holstein,  Duke  of,  visits  England, 
1820,  341,  342 

Holstein,  Prince  Frederick  of,  at 
Lansdowne  House,  362 

Holtcroft,  78  note 

Holyhead,  267 

Homburg,  308  note 

Home  Counties  Magazine ',  1899,  175 

Homer's  Odyssey,  in 

Hoo,  the,  visit  to,  112,  113,  332, 
note 

Hood,  Admiral  Lord,  in  command  of 
the  Mediterranean  Fleet,  196 

Hope,  Christian,  196 

Hope,  Sir  James,  at  Almack's,  329, 
330 

Hope,  Sir  John,  succeeds  Sir  John 
Moore,  117,  119 

Hope,  Mr.  and  Miss,  315 

Hope  Vere,  Hon.  Charles,  119  note 

Hope  Vere,  James,  his  marriage,  201 

Hope  Vere,  Jane,  at  dinner  with,  93  ; 
her  marriage  to  Edmond  Knox, 
201 

Hopetoun,  2nd  Earl  of,  177  note 

Hopetoun,  John,  4th  Earl  of,  1 19  note 

Hoppner,  John,  his  portrait  of  Baron- 
ess Nairne,  154 

Hornby,  Mr.,  124,  126 

Hort,  Mr.,  in  Paris,  298 

Hoste,  Sir  William,  his  hunters,  270 

Hougomont,  visit  to,  18 17,  279 

Howard,  Bernard.  See  Duke  of  Nor- 
folk 

Howard,  Major,  at  the  Pavilion,  205, 
206 

Howard,  Mis.,  on  the  Devonshire 
scandal,  308  note 

Howe,  Admiral  the  1st  Earl  of,  his 
daughter,  190 ;  his  victory  off 
Ushant,  9  and  note 

Howe,  Richard,  2nd  Earl,  191  note 

Howe,  Hon.  Mary,  8  note 

Howe,  Mrs.,  death  of,  232 

Howe,  Sophia  Charlotte,  Baroness, 
second  marriage  of,  190 

Howe,  Emanuel,  2nd  Viscount, 
8  note 

Howick,  Lord,  77.     See  Earl  Grey 


Hull,    Wilberforce,   M.P.    for,    345 

note 
Humbert,  General,  44  note 
Humboldt,    Baron     von,    at     Lady 

Davy's,  310 
Hunloke,  Charlotte,  her  marriage  to 

Lord  Albemarle,  361 
Hunloke,  Sir  Henry,  361  note 
Hunsdon,  Henry,  1st  Baron,  dies  of 

disappointment,  176 
Hunsdon,  2nd  Baron,  his  tomb,  176 
Hunsdon  Church,  176,  354 
Hunsdon  House,   Herts,  seat  of  the 

Calvert   family,    whom   see ;    bur- 
glary   at,    328 ;     Corporation     of 

Hertford  at,  178,  334  ;  decoration 

of,  207,  212  ;  history  of,  5,  174-7  ; 

rebuilt,  49,  50,  66,   174;  sale  of, 

365,   37&  5  tenants'   ball  at,   306 ; 

turtle  feast  at,  332 
Hunsdon  Street,  day  school  at,  68, 

305  ;  Sunday  School  at,  236 
Hunsdonbury,  379 
Hunt,  Sir  Aubrey,  visit  from,   345. 

See  De  Vere 
Hunt,  William,  and  Reginald  Poole, 

The  Political  History  of  England, 

143  note 
Huntingfield,   1st  Lord,  his    family, 

24  note,  83,  85 
Huntley,  George,  9th   Marquess  of, 

his  daughter,  221  note 
Huntley,  Charles,  10th  Marquess  of, 

his  marriage,  352 
Hutchinson,   Captain,  his   arrest    in 

Paris,  260 
Hutchinson,  Colonel,  Life  of,  210 
Hutchinson,  Lord,  at  St.  Petersburg, 

93 

Hutchinson,  Mr.,  374 

Hyde  Park,  fete  in,  1814,  235 

Hythe,  James  Knox  at,  195 

Ickworth,  visit  to,  333 

Ilchester,  Caroline  Leonora,  Countess 

of,  marriage  of,  182 
Ilchester,  1st  Earl  of,  161  note 
Ilchester,  Henry  Stephen,  3rd   Earl 

of,  marriage  of,  182 
Inchiquin,  Earl  of.     See  Thomond 
Incledon,  at  Vauxhall  Gardens,  165 
Influenza,  epidemic  of,  1809,  128 
Innes,  Alexander,  217  note 
Invasion  alarms,  14,  50,  52 


INDEX 


405 


Ireland,  distress  in,  344 

—  Lord  Paget,  Lord  Lieutenant  of, 
119  note 

—  plague  in,  135 

—  Primate  of.    See  Norma nton,  Earl 
of,  38 

—  Rebellion  in,  7,  1 1 

Irish  Parliament,  the,  3,  62,  73  note 
Irvine,  Charles  Ingram,  9th  Viscount, 

80  note,  162  note 
Islington  Spa,  41 
Italian  Opera,  170 

Jackson,  Dr.,  Dean  of  Christchurch, 
refuses  bishopric,  203  ;  sermon  by, 

37 
Jamaica,  13 

James  II  at  St.  Germains,  301 
James,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  of  Worlington, 

348 
Jane  Shore,  279 

Jansen,  Captain,  at  the  Pavilion,  206 
Jefferies,    Miss,    at    Brighton,    83 ; 

plays  Casino,  47 
Jekyll,  R.  N. ,  Captain  Edward,  28  note 
Jekyll,  Joseph,  at  dinner  with,  101  ; 

career  of,  28  note  ;  his  quatrain  on 

Lord  Melville,  42 ;  his  toast,  28 
Jenkinson,  J.,  376 
Jenkinson,  Lady  Charlotte,  marriage 

of,  72.     See  Lady  Grimston 
Jenkinson,  Sir  Robert  Banks.     See 

Earl  of  Liverpool 
Jermyn,  Earl.     See  Bristol 
Jerningham  Letters,  309  note 
Jerome  Bonaparte,  his  wife,  280 
Jersey,   Frances  Twysden,  Countess 

of,  dissensions  due  to,  8,   10 ;  un- 
popularity of,  10 
Jersey,  Sarah,  Countess  of,  at  Mrs. 

Fitzherbert's,    265 ;    her    concert, 

178;  her  sobriquet,  265  note;  in 

Paris,  296 
Jersey,  George  Child,   5  th  Earl  of, 

in  Paris,  296 
Jesse,  J.  H.,  157 

Jocelyn,  Captain  and  Mrs.,  48,  51 
Johnes,  Miss,  34 

Johnson,  Colonel,  at  Hunsdon,  332 
Johnson,  Samuel,  152 
Johnstone,  Colonel  Andrew  Cochrane, 

found  guilty  of  fraud,   227,    231  ; 

his    motion    re    the    Princess    of 

Wales,  iq8 


I    Jones,    Mr.,    supported    by   Sir    F. 
Burdett,  156 

Jones,  Mrs.,  31 
I    Jordan,  Mrs.,  her  relations  with  the 
Duke  of  Clarence,  17,  181 

Josephine,  Empress,  death  of,  225  ; 
divorce  of,  150  ;  her  portrait,  301  ; 
Napoleon  procures  fruit  for,  88 

Joueur,  Le,  298 

Jourdan,  his  baton,  202 

Julius  Ccesar  played  before  Napo- 
leon, 170 

Juno,  H.M.S.,  19 

Junot,  defeat  of,  109,  no 

Jura  mountains,  the,  294 

Kauffmann,  Angelica,  163  note 
Keith,  George,  Admiral  Viscount,  at 
Mrs.  Knox's,  154  ;  dreads  an  in- 
vasion, 50  ;  his  daughter,  224,  272  ; 
his  marriage,  152 
Keith,  Queenie,  Viscountess,  at  Mrs. 
Knox's,  154;  her  daughter's  birth, 

I5i 

Kelly,  Major,  at  Tynan  Abbey,  363 

Kelso,  309  note 

Kemble,  John  Philip,  as  Lord  Town- 
ley,  271  ;  his  house  stormed  by 
rioters,  145  ;  hissed  at  Covent 
Garden,  143  note  ;  in  Macbeth,  186 

Kempt,  General  Sir  James,  on  Felix 
Calvert  at  Waterloo,  251 

Kendal,  Duke  of,  262 

Kensington  Gardens,  99,  160 

Kent,  Duchess  of,  her  daughter's 
birth,  329 

Kent  and  Strathearn,  Edward,  Duke 
of,  appearance  of,  36 ;  at  Carlton 
House,  233 ;  at  Court,  152  ;  at 
Mrs.  Fitzherbert's,  17,  76,  137, 
265 ;  at  the  Duchesse  de  San 
Carlos's  ball,  336 ;  at  the  Prince 
Regent's  ball,  178;  his  death,  141, 
338>  339  5  his  marriage,  322 

Kenyon,  Lord,  107  note 

Keppel,  Lady  Anne,  her  marriages, 
349  and  note,  361 

Keppel,  Lady  Mary,  at  Holkham, 
349  ;  her  marriages,  349  note 

Kerr,  Charles,  of  Kelso,  309  note 

Kersaint,  Mile.  Claire  de,  see  Duch- 
esse de  Duras 

Kilfenora,  Dean  of,  306  note 

Kilkenny  Castle,  266  note 


406 


INDEX 


Killala  Bay,  44  note 

Kilmorey,  1st  Earl  of,  at  Homburg, 

330 ;  his  children,   192,  358,  360  ; 

his  creation,  361 
Kilmorey,  Francis  Jack,  2nd  Earl  of, 

at  dinner  with,  355  ;  his  marriage, 

115  note;  his  succession,  322,  324 
Kilmorey,  nth  Viscount,  his  death, 

322  note,  324 
Kilworth,  Lord,  at  dinner  with,  228 
Kimpton  Hoo,  Luton,  322  note 
King,  Colonel,  347 
King's  Bench,  London,  245 
King's  Walden,  Herts.,  138  note 
Kingston,     Caroline,     Countess    of, 

visits  to,  at  Windsor,  9,   n;  her 

character,  59 
Kingston,  Helena,  Countess  of,  her 

assemblies,  79,  208  ;  Mrs.  Calvert 

meets,  36,  228 
Kingston,   George,    3rd    Earl  of,   at 

dinner  with,  36,  228 
Kinnoull,  Lord,  at  the  Opera,  70 
Kirchberg,  290 
Knapton,  Lord,  4,  364  note 
Knight,  Richard  Payne,  his  collec- 
tion of  coins,  310 
Knighton,    Sir    William,    appointed 

physician  to  the  Embassy,  Spain, 

137  ;    his    knighthood,    91    note  ; 

medical  services  of,  91,  109,  181 
Knox  family,  the,  superstition  as  to 

drowning,  13  note 
Knox,    Admiral   the  Hon.    Edmond 

Sexten  Pery,  120;  125,  217  note; 

appointed  to  the  Princess  Charlotte 

frigate,  92;  at  Hunsdon,  123;  at 

Ramsgate,    144 ;    at  the  Hertford 

Ball,  149  ;  his  marriage,  93,  201  ; 

his  retirement,  142  note  ;  his  son's 

birth,  340;  his  travels  abroad,  272; 

in  command  of  the  Enrotas,  220 ; 

in  command  of  the  Pull-tuskt  141  ; 

in   love   with    Miss   Acklom,    90, 

92  ;  in  Paris,  244,  257,  295-302  ; 

in  the  West  Indies,   126;    letters 

from,    19,    150 ;    on    Lady   Pery, 

354  ;  returns  from  sea,  67 
Knox,    Hon.     Edmond,    Bishop    of 

Limerick,  his  son's  death,  216 
Knox,    Mrs.    Edmond,    received    by 

the  Grand  Duchess  of  Baden,  284 

note 
Knox,  Elizabeth,  99  note 


Knox,  Frances,  at  her  brother's 
wedding,  201  ;  at  Lady  Bridge- 
water's,  225;  at  Ramsgate,  144; 
her  confirmation,  127,  129  ;  returns 
to  England,  14 

Knox,  Hon.  George,  58,  340 ;  at 
Madeira,  114;  his  marriages,  30, 
261  ;  his  tribute  to  Viscount  Pery, 
61,  63;  his  wife's  death,  177; 
loses  secretaryship,  64 ;  on  Lady 
Stronge,  170 

Knox,  Hon.  Mrs.  George,  her  death, 
177,  261  ;  visit  to,  58,  59 

Knox,  Colonel  the  Hon.  James,  57  ; 
at  Bladensburg,  237,  238 ;  at 
Grantham,  131,  132;  at  Hertford, 
189;  at  Hunsdon,  338;  at  Vaux- 
hall,  331  ;  enters  the  army,  100  ; 
illness  of,  15;  ordered  abroad, 
138;  recruiting  at  Battle,  129; 
returns  from  Ireland,  195 ;  with 
his  regiment  in  Spain,  104-23 ; 
wounded  at  New  Orleans,  242,  243 

Knox,  Hon.  Jane,  355 

Knox,  Hon.  John,  at  Hunsdon,  338  ; 
at  Leipzig,  57  ;  at  Salamanca,  188, 
191  ;  his  marriage,  192,  358,  361  ; 
letters  from,  347 ;  Lieutenant  in 
the  66th,  91  ;  loses  an  eye  at  Bur- 
gos, 191 ;  ordered  abroad,  93  ;  re- 
turns from  Paris,  244 ;  returns 
from  the  Peninsula  War,  195,  197  ; 
returns  from  Sicily,  153 

Knox,  Mary,  at  Brighton,  327 

Knox,  Susan  Euphemia,  begs  a  sub- 
scription, 366 

Knox,  Thomas,  lost  at  sea,  19 

Knox,  General  Thomas  Edmond,  his 
birth,  340  ;  lost  at  sea,  13 

Knox,  Hon.  Thomas,  125  ;  at  Brigh- 
ton, 231  ;  at  dinner  with,  31,  33, 
93  ;  at  Ramsgate,  144  ;  entertains 
the  Duke  of  Clarence,  180;  his 
windows  broken,  157;  sends  word 
of  Felix  Calvert,  202  ;  succeeds  to 
the  title,  1818,  351  note.  See  1st 
Earl  of  Ranfurly  and  Viscount 
Northland 

Knox,  Hon.  Mrs.  Thomas  (Diana 
Jane  Pery)  at  Brighton,  16-18,  104, 
215;  at  the  Opera.  70;  at  Ramsgate, 
144 ;  at  Vauxhall  Gardens,  165  ; 
electioneering  for  Lord  Cochrane, 
75  ;  her  assemblies,  199,  246  ;  her 


INDEX 


407 


balls,  100,  124,  125,  247 ;  her 
concert,  156;  her  dinner-parties, 
154,  246 ;  her  illness,  327 ;  her 
marriage,  4  note,  62  ;  in  Ireland, 
105,  131;  in  Paris,  302;  sent  to 
England  for  safety,  1797,  II,  14; 
visits  to,  57,  65 

Knox,  Thomas,  108,  135  note ;  at 
the  Hertford  Ball,  149;  birth  of, 
58  ;  his  engagement  to  Miss 
Acklom,  177-82;  his  illness  at 
Dungannon,  131,  135;  his  mar- 
riage to  Miss  Stuart,  238,  245  ;  in 
Paris,  1814,  221 

Knox,  Mrs.  Thomas,  her  appearance 
and  manners,  245,  246  ;  her  chil- 
dren, 322  ;  presented  at  Court,  247 

Knox,  Hon.  Mrs.  William,  242  note, 
307  ;  annoys  Lady  Charleville,  311 

Knox,  Rt.  Rev.  the  Hon.  William, 
Bishop  of  Derry,  at  dinner  with, 
307  ;  baptizes  James  Stronge,  183; 
his  family,  19  ;  his  marriages,  360; 
letters  from,  376 

Knutsford,  1st  Lord,  310  note 

Koningsberg,  capture  of,  198 

Kotzebue,  Life  in  Siberia^  2 10 

Kursen,  Chateau  de,  291 

La  Coste,  guide  at  Waterloo,  279 

Ladbroke,  Mr.,  186 

Laeken,  Napoleon  at,  276 

Lake,  Major  and  Walter,  at  Hunsdon, 
213 

Lake  of  Delhi,  Gerard,  1st  Viscount ; 
as  commander  in  the  Mahratta 
War,  50 ;  his  death,  94 

Lamb,  Hon.  Anne.  See  Countess 
Cowper 

Lamb,  Hon.  William,  29  note,  46 
note ;  at  Hunsdon,  359 ;  contests 
Hertford,  332,  334  ;  marriage  of, 
45>  49  5  on  the  Catholic  question, 
73.     See  Lord  Melbourne. 

Lamb,  Lady  Caroline,  at  Digwell, 
351;  at  Hunsdon,  359;  at  the 
Hertford  Bazaar,  347  ;  her  assem- 
blies, 95 ;  her  infatuation  for  Byron, 
46  ;  her  marriage,  45,  49 

"Lancashire  Witches,  The,"  355 
note 

Lancaster,  Duchy  of,  73 

Lancaster,  Joseph,  his  educational 
system,  162 


Langar,  Baroness  Howe  of,  190  note 
Langsdorff,  Baron,  on  Homburg,  308 ; 

visits  from,  330,  340 
Lannes,  Marechal,  141  note 
Lansdowne  House,  assembly  at,  362 
Lansdowne,  Marchioness  of,  gives  a 

masquerade,  68 
Lansdowne,  Henry,  4th  Marquess  of, 

28  note,   29;    at  Bowood,    1850, 

247  note  ;  his  marriage,  155 
Lansdowne,  5th  Marquess  of,  155 
Lascelles,  Hon.  Edwin,  at  Harewood, 

268 
Lascelles,      Henry,      Viscount,      at 

Harewood,  268 
Laswary,  battle  of,  94  note 
Laterlo,  Mr.,  255 
La  Touche,  Rt.    Hon.    David,  364 

note 
Lauderdale,  James,  7th  Earl  of,  his 

children,  202  note 
Lauderdale,  James,  8th  Earl  of,  his 

conversation  with  the  Duchess  of 

Gordon,  74 
Lausanne,  visit  to,  1817,  292 
La  Valette,  Antoine  M.   Chamans, 

Comte  de,  his  escape  from  Paris, 

260 
La  Valette,  Madame  de,  260 
Lavender,  335 

Law,    Edward.      See    Lord    Ellen- 
borough 
Lawrence,  Sir  Thomas,  his  portrait 

of  Baron  Lynedoch,  197 
Laws,  Mrs.,  at  Hatfield,  357 
Leach,  Mr.,  49 
Leach,  Sir  John,  338 
Lee,  Miss,  Life  of  a  Lover ;  22 
Leeds,    Catherine,    Duchess    of,    as 

governess  to    Princess    Charlotte, 

193,  231 
Leeds,  Francis,  5th  Duke  of,  his  chil- 
dren, 86  note,  193  note,  322  note 
Leicester,  Thomas,  Earl  of,   life  of, 

248  note.     See  Coke 

Leinster,  Duchess  of,  her  assembly, 
129 

Leinster,  James,  1st  Duke  of,  342  note 

Leipzig,  battle  of,  211  j  University 
of,  57 

Leitrim,  1st  Earl  of,  49  note,  50 

Lennox,  Dukedom  of,  9 

Lennox,  Lady  Charlotte,  Mrs.  Cal- 
vert's dislike  of,  31,  32 


408 


INDEX 


Lennox,  Lady  Louisa.     See  Conolly 
Lennox,   Lady  Mary,   her  marriage 

to  Sir  C.  FitzRoy,   277  note  ;    in 

Brussels,  277 
Lennox,    Lady   Sarah,    at    Holland 

House,   129  ;   her  elopement  with 

Sir  P.  Maitland,  258.    See  Napier 
Lenoire,  Admiral,  66 
Leopold,  Prince  of  Saxe-Coburg,  and 

King   of  the    Belgians,    at    Mrs. 

Robinson's,   331  ;    at  the  Duchess 

de   San    Carlos's    ball,   336 ;    his 

marriage,  261-3,   2D5>   3°S  n°te  '•> 

Marlborough  House  purchased  for, 

79  note 
Lethbridge,     Mr.,     accuses    Sir    F. 

Burdett  of  breach  of  privilege,  156 
Leven  and  Melville,  David,  8th  and 

7th  Earl,  320  note 
Leven  and  Melville,  9th  Earl,   217 

note 
Leven  and  Melville,  10th  Earl,  217 

note 
Leveson,   Lord   Grenville,   marriage 

of,  149.     See  Granville 
Lewin,  Commander    Richard  John, 

46  note 
Leyden,  visit  to,  1817,  303 
Liederkerke,  Count  and  Countess,  at 

Berne,  290 
Liege,  visit  to,  181 7,  280 
Lieven,  Count,  at  the  Pavilion,  205 
Lieven,  Countess,  at  Court,  224  ;  at 

the    Regent's    ball,    195  ;    at    the 

Pavilion,  204,   205  ;  on  Mine,  de 

Flahault,  272  note 
Life  Guards,  mutiny  among,  344 
Lille,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  274 
Limerick,  375 

—  Castle  of,  4  \  note 

—  Colonel  Veieker,  M.P.  for,  44 

—  Dean  of,  112  note 

Limerick,  Mary  Alice,  Countess  of, 
children  of,  20,  259  ;  her  marriage, 
14 ;  invited  to  Windsor,  32,  35  ; 
visits  to,  40,  98 

Limerick,  Edward  Henry,  1st  Earl 
of,  31,  32,  225,  320,  328,  350; 
his  children,  156,  208,  210,  218, 
271,  329  note  ;  his  estrangement 
from  Lord  Glentworth,  98-101, 
107,  no,  218;  his  dinner  parties, 
71,  248,  307,  330;  his  dislike  of 
Col.    Vereker,    44 ;    his    nephew, 


345  ;  his  vanity,  28  ;  Mrs.  Calvert 
plays  a  joke  on,  73  ;  on  Princess 
Charlotte's  proposals,  235  ;  settles 
in  England,  14  ;  steward  at  White's 
ball,  229  ;  succeeds  to  the  estates 
of  Viscount  Pery,  62,  90  note ; 
visits  from,  125,  157  ;  visits  to, 
106,  115,  123,  358,  360 

Lincoln's  Inn,  28  note 

Lincoln's  Inn  Fields  Theatre,  258 
note 

Lindsay,  Lady  Charlotte,  at  Brighton, 

.2I5 

Lindsay,  Lady  Elizabeth.  See  Coun- 
tess of  Hardwicke 

Lindsay  of  Balcarres,  Lord,  refused 
by  Miss  Acklom,  77 

Linley,  Miss,  her  marriage  to  Sheri- 
dan, 76  note,  149 

Lions,  to  see  the,  origin  of  phrase, 
341  note 

Lisbon,  142,  198 

Lisle,  Louis  XVIII  at,  244 

Lisnavagh,  Co.  Carlow,  318  note 

Lissa,  battle  off,  270  note 

Liston,    John,    as    Tony   Lumpkin, 

.305 

Liverpool,  Robert  Bankes,  2nd  Earl 
of,  at  Brighton,  352  ;  conducts  the 
Prince  of  Orange  home,  226  ;  his 
correspondence  with  Queen  Caro- 
line, 345  ;  his  death,  117;  Premier 
for  a  day,  186 

Liverpool,  Lady,  severely  burnt,  117 

Llangollen,  the  "Ladies"  of,  266, 
362 

Llanover,  Lady,  348 

Lloyd,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  atDigwell,  351 

Locklane,  Perthshire,  171 

Loftus,  Lord,  his  resemblance  to 
the  Regent,  29 

London,  Bishopric  of,  203 
See  John  Randolph  and  Porteous. 

London : — 

Churches,    Streets,   etc.      See   also 
separate  headings. 

—  5  Albemarle  Street,  23,  25,  27 

—  22  Albemarle  Street,  12,  15 

—  23  Albemarle  Street,  328 

—  All     Saints     Church,     Margaret 

Street,  263 

—  Antient  music,  177 

—  Bank  Buildings,  26 

—  5  Belgrave  Square,  258  note 


INDEX 


409 


London : — 

Churches,    Streets,   etc.      See  also 
separate  headings. 

—  Berkeley  Square,   92  note,    158  ; 

riots  in,  241 

—  Bolton  Street,  157 

—  Boodle's,  ball  at,  223 

—  30  Cavendish  Square,  79,  366 

—  Change  Alley,  Cornhill,  65  note 

—  Chapel  Royal,  37,  73,  123,  244 

—  Charles  Street,  Berkeley  Square, 

141 

—  Chesterfield  Street,  22 

—  Conduit  Street,  137 

—  Cork  Street,  6 

—  Curzon  Street  Chapel,  24,  52 

—  Custom  House,  216 

—  Devonshire  Place,  14,  24 

—  16  Dover  Street,  7,  340 

—  35  Dover  Street,  115 

—  Euston,  or  New  Road,  69 

—  Fog  of  1814,  213,  214 

—  Frost  Fair,  1814,  216 

—  Gloucester  Place,  124  note 

—  9  Grafton  Street,  337 

—  Green  Street,  227  note 

—  Grillon's  Hotel,  30 

—  Grosvenor  Chapel,  52 

—  Grosvenor  Place,  167 

—  Grosvenor  Square,  93 

—  Guildhall,  228 

—  Hamilton  Place,  96 

—  5  Hanover  Square,  155 

—  Harley  Street,  24 

—  Hertford  Street,  24 

—  Hill  Street,  14 

—  Holland  House,  269  note 

—  Horse  Guards,  108 

—  Inner  Temple,  28  note 

—  Manchester  Square,  178 

—  Mansfield  Street,  16,  248  note 

—  Marlborough  Row,  212 

—  Montague  House,  182  note 

—  Old  Pulteney  Hotel,  219 

—  no  Park  Street,  27,  28,  35 

—  113  Park  Street,  212  note 

—  80  Piccadilly,  157 

—  106  Piccadilly,  154 

—  no  Piccadilly,  152 

—  138  Piccadilly,  170 

—  Portland  Place,  5 

—  Portman  Square,  129,  162 

—  Sackville  Street,  77  note 

—  Savile  Row,  95,  171  note 


London : — 

Churches,    Streets,   etc.      See  also 
separate  headings. 

—  Soho  Square,  158 

—  77  South  Audley  Street,  246,  343 

—  St.    George's,    Hanover    Square, 
161,  168,  201 

—  St.  James's  Church,  129,  169 

—  St.  James's  Square,  317 

—  St.  Paul's  Cathedral,  59,  232 

—  Strand,  58 

—  Thames  Street,  59 

—  6  Tilney  Street,  76  note 

—  Tower  Hill,  163 

—  31    Upper  Grosvenor   Street,    14 

note,  31 

—  22  Upper  Grosvenor  Street,  194 

—  Uxbridge    Road    Cemetery,    250 

note 

—  Vere  Street  Chapel,  344 

—  Weymouth  Street,  7 

—  William  Street,  263 

—  15   Wimpole    Street,    269,    281, 
305,  337 

Londonderry,  Caroline,  Marchioness 

of,  163  note 
Londonderry,  Robert,  2nd  Marquess 

of,  317  note 
Londonderry,  Charles  William,  3rd 

Marquess  of,  163  note 
Long,  Katherine,   refuses  the  Duke 

of  Clarence,  180-2 
Long,    Sir  James   Tylney,    73,    180 

note 
Longford,      Lord,      66,     376 ;      his 

brother's    death,     182 ;    on    Felix 

Calvert,  223;  visit  from,  no 
Lonsdale,  James,  Earl  of,  42  note 
Lord  Sidmouth,  304 
Lostwithiel,  29  note 
Lotteries,  26 
Lough  S willy,  182 
Louis  XV,  his  physician,  169 
Louis  XVI,  178  note,  292  note,  297 

note,    301;    execution   of,  7;    his 

death    prophesied,   34   note ;     his 

will,  369-73 
Louis  XVIII  at  the  Prince  Regent's 

ball,   178  ;    his  flight,    1815,  243, 

244 ;  receives  Mrs.  Calvert,  297  ; 

re-enters  Paris,  215,  220,  221,  255, 

256,  260 
Louis  Philippe,  as  Due  d'Orleans,  15 
Louisbourg,  287 


4io 


INDEX 


Louise  of  Mecklenburg-Strelitz, 
Queen,  her  death,  229 

Louvel,  16  note 

Lowther,  Robert,  62  note 

Liibeck,  98  note 

Lucan,  Margaret,  Countess  of,  her 
death,  215  ;  her  divorce,  67  ;  her 
marriage,  25  ;  visits  to  and  from, 

35,  58,  133 
Lucan,   Charles,     1st    Earl    of,    his 

family,  7  note,  25  note,  45  note, 

78  note,  133  note 
Lucan,    Richard,   2nd    Earl   of,    his 

marriage,  21,  25,  26;  letters  from, 

376 
Lucan  House,  visits  to,  364,  375 
Lucerne,  visit  to,  1817,  288 
Lurgan  of  Lurgan,   Baron,   8   note, 

20  note,  267  note 
Luscombe,  Mr.,  138 
Luton,  Kimpton  Hoo,  332  note 
Luttrell,  Elizabeth,  at  Paine's  Hill,  88 
Luttrell,    Hon.    Temple   Simon,    88 

note 
Luttrelstown,  354  note 
Lyndhurst,    John,    Lord,    at    Lydia 

White's,  213  note 
Lynedoch,   Thomas,    Baron,  at   the 

Pavilion,  238  ;  bombards  Antwerp, 

278;  career  of,  159  note,  197,221. 

See  General  Graham 
Lyons,  Louis  XVIII  at,  243 
Lyons,  John,  266  note 
Lyttelton,  Hon.  Mr.,  at  dinner  with, 

101 
Lyttelton,  2nd  Lord,  101 
Lyttelton,  William  Henry,  3rd  Lord, 

45  note,  100  note 
Lytton,  Bulwer,  his  friendship  with 

Lydia  White,  213  note 

Macartney,  Jane,  Countess,  65 

Macartney,  George,  Earl,  at  the 
Cape,  92  note ;  death  of,  65 

Macartney,  Miss,  375 

Macbeth,  143  note  ;  Mrs.  Siddonsand 
Kemble  in,  186 

Macdonald,  Chief  Baron,  at  Hat- 
field, 107 

Macdonald,  James,  death  of,  218 

Macdonald,  Lieut. -Colonel,  at  Bar- 
ossa,  173;  at  Hunsdon,  182 

Macdonald  of  Slate,  Geoffry,  3rd 
Lord,  31  note 


Macfarlane,Sir  Robert  and  Lady,  34I 
Macgregor,  Sir  Evan,  32  note 
Mackintosh,    Sir    James,    at    Lady 

Davy's,  310 
Macleod,  Lord,  32  note,  312 
Macready,  William  Charles,  at  Covent 

Garden,  305  ;  on  Miss  O'Neil,  249 
Madeira,  resort  for  consumptives,  26, 

114 
Madingley,  visit  to,  1820,  350 
Madocks,  J.,  his  engagement  to  Miss 

Acklom,  188,  192,  207 
Madrid,  capture  of,  189 
—  the  French  in  possession  of,   109, 

117 
Magnetism,  cure  by,  52 
Mahratta  War,  the,  50,  94  note 
Maitland,      Lady      Elizabeth,      her 

marriage  to  David  Gavin,  202  note 
Maitland,   Sir   Peregrine,   his  elope- 
ment and  his  poverty,  258 
Malcolm,  Mrs.,  33,  34 
Maiden,  342  note 
Malesherbes,  M.  de,  372 
Mallett,  Mr.,  his  collection,  359 
Malmaison,  visit  to,  1817,  301 
Malone,  Anthony,  376 
Malta,  20 
Malthus,  Dr.,  his  career  and  Essay 

on  Population,  143 
Malthus,  Harriet,  her  marriage,  144  ; 

visit  to,  143 
Manchester,  Susan,  Duchess  of,  161  ; 

at  Ramsgate,  144,  145 
Manchester,  George,  4th   Duke  of, 

318  note 
Manchester,  William,  5th  Duke  of, 

144  note 
Manners-Sutton,  Sir  Charles,  Speaker, 

307.     See  Viscount  Canterbury 
Manningham,  Charles,  153  note 
Mansfield,  Comtesse,  portrait  of,  135 
Mansfield,  Frederica,  Countess  of,  in 

Paris,  296  ;  her  assemblies,  71,  315 
Mansfield,  William,  3rd  Earl  of,  his 

marriage,  296  note 
March,    Lord,    170.      See    Duke    of 

Queensberry 
Marengo,  capture  of  the,  66 
Maria  Caroline  of  Naples,   16  note, 

301.     See  Duchesse  de  Berri 
Maria     Louise    of    Austria,    Arch- 
duchess, 301  note ;  at  Laeken,  277 ; 

her  rumoured  flight,  155 


INDEX 


411 


Marie  Antoinette,  Queen,  178  note, 
260,  297  note 

Marie  Josephine  of  Saxony,  Prin- 
cess, her  marriage,  335 

Markham,  William,  Archbishop  of 
York,  296  note 

Marlborough  House,  assemblies  at, 
47>  79  J  purchased  by  the  Crown, 

79 

Marlborough,  Caroline,  Duchess  of, 
her  character  as  a  mother,  84 

Marlborough,  John,  1st  Duke  of, 
Napoleon's  admiration  for,  134 

Marlborough,  George,  3rd  Duke  of, 
67 

Marlborough,  George,  4th  Duke  of, 
84  note 

Marmont,  General,  defeated  at  Sala- 
manca, 188  ;  in  Paris,  301 

Marriage  of  Figaro ,  The,  332 

Marsh,  Rev.  Mr.,  at  Brighton,  212 

Marsh,  W.,  311  note 

Marsham,  Norfolk,  36  note 

Marsham,  Charles,  Viscount,  appear- 
ance of,  36 

Martin,  John,  62 

Martin,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  at  Beech- 
wood,  112 

Martinique,  capture  of,  128 

Mary,  Princess,  at  Carlton  House, 
233  ;  at  Court,  194,  224,  245  ;  at 
the  Regent's  ball,  195  ;  her  love 
affairs,  248 ;  her  marriage,  318 
note 

Mary,  Queen  of  Scots,  196  ;  at  Huns- 
don,  175  ;  her  double,  135 

Match  Breaking  and  Match  Making, 

358 

Maxwell,  Sir  Murray,  contests  West- 
minster, 321 

Mayler,  Mr.,  death  of,  313 

Maynard,  Viscount,  8 

Mason,  W,  Caractacus,  99 

Masquerades,  Mrs.  Calvert  on,  68 

Massena,  General,  assures  Louis 
XVIII  of  his  fidelity,  243,  244; 
defeat  of,  168 

Massot,  his  portrait  of  General  Cal- 
vert, 357  note 

Mechlin,  visit  to,  1817,  277 

Mecklenburg,  Grand  Duke  Frederick 
Louis  of,  318  note 

Mecklenburg,  Paul  Frederick,  Duke 
of,  at  Geneva,  292 


Mecklenburg-Schwerin,  Prince  Paul 
of,  godfather  to  Pauline  Stronge, 
318  ;  his  ball  at  Geneva,  292 

Mecklenburg-Strelitz,  Princess  Fred- 
erica  of,  her  marriage,  318  note 

Mecklenburg-Strelitz,  Princess  Louisa 
of,  300  note 

Medici,  Catherine  de,  298 

Mee,  Mrs.,  her  miniatures,  163 

Melbourne  House,  description  of,  95 

Melbourne,  1st  Viscount,  310  note, 
332  note  ;  buys  Melbourne  House, 
1770,  95;  his  daughter,  45,  49; 
his  heir,  29 

Melbourne,  William  Lamb,  2nd  Vis- 
count, see  Lamb. 

Melbourne,  Viscountess,  her  taste  in 
decoration,  95 

Melville,  Henry  Dundas,  Viscount, 
dines  with  the  Princess  of  Wales, 
74  ;  his  death,  177  ;  his  trial  for 
embezzlement,  40, 42,  46,  48, 66, 68 

Melville,  Jane,  Viscountess,  177  note 

Memel,  23  note,  230 

Mer  de  Glace,  293 

Mercer,  Colonel,  his  marriage,  348 

Mercer,  William,  50  note 

Merchant  of  Venice,  The,  197 

Metcalfe,  Sir  Thomas,  329  note 

Meteor,  365 

Methodists,  the,  212 

Methuen,  Paul,  champions  the  Prin- 
cess of  Wales,  225,  231 

Meuse,  the,  280 

Mexborough,  Elizabeth,  Countess  of, 
her  character,  78 

Mexborough,  John,  2nd  Earl  of,  80 
note  ;  his  marriage,  78 

Micklethwaite,    Lady  Maria,  death 

of,  35 

Micklethwaite,  Nathaniel,  35  note 

Milan,  323 

Milbanke,    Miss,    her    marriage    to 

Lord  Byron,  240 
Mildmay,  Lady,  37  ;  at  the  Pavilion, 

206 
Milton  John,  Paradise  Lost,  41 
Miscin,  Glamorganshire,  212  note 
Mitchell,  Mrs.,  her  balls,  361 
Moira,  Lord,  his  regiment  ordered 

abroad,  93 
Molesworth,    Richard     Pigott,    7th 

Viscount,  at  Mrs.  Calvert's  dance, 

342 


412 


INDEX 


Molesworth,  William,  29  note 
Moliere,  Malade  Imaginaire,  1 10 
Mount,   The,    Co.    Westmeath,   266 

note 
Monasterboyce,  Co.  Louth,  246  note 
Monk,  John,  horse-dealer,  216,  255 
Montagu,  Lady  Mary  Wortley,  238 

note 
Montagu,  Mrs.,  her  assemblies,  162  ; 

her  house  and  her  daughter,  182 
Montalembert,     Baron,     acting     at 

Brighton,  214,  216 
Montalembert,  Baroness,  her  assem- 
bly,   211  ;    her  French  plays,  215, 
216 
Montanvert,  ascent  of,  293 
Montbard,  visit  to,  1817,  294 
Mont  Blanc,  293 
Monteagle,  Lord,  27  note 
Montgomerie,  Lady  Jane,  39 
Montpensier,  Due  de,  15,  16 
Montrose,  Caroline  Maria,  Duchess 

of,  her  assembly,  318 
Montrose,  James,  3rd  Duke  of,  his 

marriage,  318  note 
Montrose,  4th  Duke  of,  329  note 
Moore,   Lady  Helena,   marriage  of, 

198 
Moore,   Lady  Jane,  at    Mr.    Robin- 
son's, 228.     See  Lady  Jane  Peel 
Moore,  Peter,  his  news  from  Spain, 

119 
Moore,  Sir  John,  his  conduct  blamed, 
123,  130;  his  death,  118,  119,  144, 
197 ;  his  expedition  to  Sweden, 
96-106,  144,  196  ;  in  command  of 
the  52nd,  89  ;  ordered  to  Spain, 
105-18 ;  Soult  erects  monument 
to,  130 
Moore,   Thomas,  at  Lydia  White's, 

213  note 
Morcet,  Mrs.,  at  Lydia  White's,  213 

note 
Moreau,  Madame,  in  England,  244 
Morgenthal,  visit  to,  1817,  289 
Morley,  John,  1st  Earl  of,  21  note, 

177  note 
Morning  Chronicle,  28  note 
Morning  Post,    105 ;  on    Mrs.    Cal- 
vert's ball,  314 
Mornington,  Countess  of,  mother  of 

the  Duke  of  Wellington,  25 
Mornington,  William  Wellesley,  2nd 
Earl  of,  180  note 


Mornington,  William,   3rd   Earl  of, 

171,  296  note 
Morris,  Nicholas,  266  note 
Mortimer,  Earl.     See  Oxford 
Moscow,  303  note  ;  burning  of,  285  ; 

retreat  from,  230  note 
Mote,  Co.  Roscommon,  25  note 
Mount  Campbell,    Co.    Leitrim,    30 

note 
Mount  Cashel,  Stephen,  1st  Earl  of, 

36  note ;  at  Mr.  Robinson's,  228 
Mountjoy,  Luke,  1st  Lord,  275  note 
Mount  Kennedy,  115  note 
Mulgrave,  Lord,  sends  flag  of  truce 

to    Soult,    130;    wishes -to   report 

duel  to  the  King,  144 
Mullins,  Lt.-Col.  the  Hon.  Thomas, 

at  New  Orleans,  244 
Minister,    Earl   of,   creation  of,   339 

note,  351  note 
Murat,   General,   declares  for  Louis 

XVIII,  243 
Murchison,  Sir  Roderick,  at  Lydia 

White's,  213  note 
Murray,  John,  24  note,  364  note 
Murray,  Col.  John,  79  note 
Murray,  General  Lord  James,  accom- 
panies the  Regent,  272  ;  his  defeat 

of     Suchet,    200 ;     marriage     of, 

145 

Murray,  Lady  Amelia,  32 

Murray,  Lady  Elizabeth,  32 

Murray,  Lady  George,  182 

Murray,  Lord  Charles,  disappear- 
ances of,  312 

Murray,  the  Misses,  351 

Murray,  Rt.  Rev.  Lord  George,  182 
note 

Nagell,    Madame    de,    in    Brussels, 

275 
Nagell,  Mile,  de,  290 
Nairne,  Baroness,  marriage  of,  155. 

See  also  Miss  Elphinstone 
Naldi,  Signor,  at  Lady  Charleville's, 

227  ;  at  Lady  Salisbury's  concert, 

101 
Namur,  visit  to,  1817,  280 
Nantes,  Edict  of,  321  note 
Napier,   Hon.   Charles,  in  command 

of  the  Pull-tusk,  142  note 
Napier,  Hon.  George,  129  note 
Napier,    Lady   Sarah,    169 ;    at   the 

Duchess  of  Leinster's,  129,  130 


INDEX 


413 


Napier,  Major,  reported  death  of,  at 
Corunna,  130 ;  wounded  in  the 
Peninsula  War,  169 

Naples,  212  note 

—  letters  from,  324-7 

Napoleon  I,  detains  English  as 
prisoners,  14 ;  orders  execution  of 
the  Due  d'Enghien,  15  ;  seizes  Sir 
G.  Rumbold,  22 ;  coronation  of, 
27 ;  his  persecution  of  Jerome 
Bonaparte,  44  ;  signs  peace  with 
Austria,  59,  145  ;  his  maritime 
efforts  defeated  in  1809,  75  note; 
makes  peace  with  Russia,  79,  80 ; 
takes  Stralsund,  87  ;  at  Warsaw, 
88;  fervent  wishes  for  his  doom,  108, 
135  ;  at  Tilsit,  114  ;  his  admiration 
of  Marlborough,  134;  his  armis- 
tice with  Austria,  138  ;  his  forti- 
eth birthday,  139  ;  predicts  result 
of  Walcheren  Expedition,  140  ;  re- 
ported insane,  145  ;  his  divorce, 
150;  his  aides-de-camp,  154,  260, 
272  ;  his  re-marriage,  155  ;  forbids 
performance  of  Julius  Ccesar,  170  ; 
escapes  capture  by  Russians,  193  ; 
gains  possession  of  Hamburg,  200, 
201  ;  his  gift  to  his  brother  Joseph, 
206  ;  defeated  at  Leipsig,  211  ;  at 
Frankfort,  212,  282  ;  successes  of, 
1814,  217  ;  his  abdication,  219, 
251,  295  ;  at  Elba,  221,  222,  243  ; 
portrait  of,  223 ;  reported  death 
of,  227  note ;  his  attacks  on 
Queen  Louise,  230 ;  his  return  to 
Paris,  244,  247  ;  defeated  at  Water- 
loo, 250,  279 ;  his  house  at 
Laeken,  276  ;  at  St.  Helena,  278, 
292  note ;  his  work  at  Antwerp, 
278  ;  his  adopted  daughter,  284  ; 
his  work  in  Paris,  299 ;  exiles 
Mme.  de  Stael,  293  note  ;  his  son, 
301  note  ;  bronze  figures  of,  323  ; 
death  of,  356 

Narcissus,  H.M.S.,  19 

Nash,  Thomas,  builds  the  Argyle 
Rooms,  265  note 

National  Portrait  Gallery,  London, 
162  note 

Neave,  Lady,  visits  to,  30,  34 

Neave,  Sir  Thomas,  34  note 

Necker,  Anne  Louise  Germaine,  her 
marriages,  209,  292  nole 

Needham,  Hon.  Francis  Jack,  visit 


to,  1818,  322.  See  Earl  of  Kil- 
morey 

Needham,  Lady  Mabella,  her  mar- 
riage with  John  Knox,  192,  358, 
361 

Needham,  Mrs.,  at  Edmondsbury, 
364 

Nelson,  Horatio,  Viscount,  death 
and  funeral  of,  49,  53,  59,  66  ;  his 
friend,  Lord  Collingwood,  159;  on 
the  Juno,  19 

Neuilly,  visit  to,  181 7,  301 

Neville,  Catherine,  her  marriage  to 
"  Poodle  "  Byng,  247  note 

Newark,  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  268 

Newbridge,  88  note 

Newbyth,  127  note 

Newcastle,  159 

Newcastle,  Anna  Maria,  Duchess  of, 
her  re-marriage,  268 

Newcastle,  Thomas,  3rd  Duke  of, 
his  marriage,  268  note 

Newgate,  London,  184 

Newmarket,  350,  357 

—  races,  23 

New  Orleans,  defeat  at,  242,  243 

Newry  and  Morne,  Viscount.  See 
Earl  of  Kilmorey 

Newstead,  Lord  Byron's  funeral  at, 
46 

Nice,  14,  183,  211  note 

Nicholas,  Prince,  rumoured  engage- 
ment of,  223 

Nicholson,  Jonas,  8 

Nicolson,  Mr.,  of  Hunsdon,  176 

Niddry,  Baron,  119  note 

Nightingale,  Florence,  her  mother, 
106  note 

Nithsdale,  Lady,  260 

Noah's  Ark,  313 

Noel,  Miss,  her  ball,  79,  80 

Norfolk,  Bernard  Edward,  12th  Duke 
of,  21  note  ;  visit  to,  357 

Norfolk,  Thomas,  Duke  of,  175 

Normanton,  Countess  of,  visit  from, 
92 

Normanton,  Charles  Agar,  1st  Earl 
of,  38  note 

North,  Brownlow,  in  The  Critic,  214 

North,  Frederick,  his  house  in  White- 
hall, 137,  226 

North,  Lord,  376 

Northington,  Robert,  Earl  of,  33  note; 
as  Viceroy  of  India,  86  note 


414 


INDEX 


Northland,  Thomas,  1st  Viscount,  5, 

7  note,   99  note,    307   note ;    his 

illness  and  death,  322,  351  note 
Northland,  Thomas,   2nd  Viscount, 

at   Brighton,    351  ;    at    the    play, 

340  ;  his  son's  marriage,  358,  361 ; 

in  Ireland,  362-4.      See  Hon.  T. 

Knox 
Northland,  Viscountess,  death  of,  15 
Northland,  Diana  Jane,  Viscountess, 

at  Brighton,  351  ;  in  London,  340. 

See  Hon.  Mrs.  Thomas  Knox 
Northumberland,    Hugh,  2nd   Duke 

of,  145  note 
Northumberland,  3rd  Duke  of,   163 

note,  374 
Norton,    Hon.    Mrs.,   her   relations 

with  Lord  Melbourne,  46  note 
Norwich,  83  note,  91  note 

—  Bishop  of,  306-8 

—  John  Saunders  at,  1 16  note 

—  William  Smith,  M.P.  for,  106 
note 

Novosielski,  architect,  219  note 

Nugent,  Frances  Helen,  marriage 
of,  235  note 

Nugent,  Lady  Rosa,  308  ;  her  mar- 
riage, 71 

Nugent,  Lord,  376 

Nugent,  Thomas  Vesey,  235  note 

Oatlands  Park,  88 

—  Princess  Charlotte  at,  262 
Observer \  T/ie,  104 

Ocoa  Bay,  64  note 

Ogle,    Admiral    Sir    Chaloner,    his 

children,   29  note,   86  note,    246 

note 
Ogle,    Captain    Charles,     as    post- 
captain  at  nineteen,  86  note 
Ogle,    Miss.      See    Mrs.     Sheridan, 

Mrs.  Wilmot,  and  Mrs.  Brand 
Oldenburgh,   Duchess  of,   at   Court, 

224;    in  London,  219,  223,  225, 

230 
Oldhall,   Sir  William,    at    Hunsdon 

House,  175,  176 
O'Neil,    Miss,    at    Covent    Garden, 

249,  250,  258,  271  ;  her  marriage 

to  Mr.  Becher,  250 
Onslow,  Arthur  George,  3rd  Earl  of. 

See  Lord  Cranley 
Onslow,     g.c.m.g.,    4th     Earl     of, 

146  note 


O.P.  Riots,  the,  143 

Opera  House,  Catalani  sings  in,  70; 
gunpowder  found  under,  125  ;  riot 
at,  47 

Ophaley,  Mount,  9  note 

Orac/e,  The,  obituary  notices  of  Lord 
Pery,  62,  63 

Orange,  William,  Prince  of,  at  Carl- 
ton House,  226 ;  at  Lady  Staf- 
ford's, 223  ;  at  the  Pavilion,  205-7, 
327  ;  his  engagement  to  Princess 
Charlotte,  223,  225,  231,  232, 
235  ;  in  Brussels,  275,  278  ;  pro- 
claimed Sovereign  of  the  Nether- 
lands, 212,  213.     See  William  I 

Orange,  Princess  of,  in  Brussels,  275, 
276,  278 

Order  of  St.  Patrick,  73 

Order  of  the  Thistle,  73 

Orford,  Horatio,  2nd  Earl  of,  his 
curios,  207  ;  his  family,  83  note, 
270  note 

Oriel,  John,  1st  Baron,  246  note,  308 
note 

Orion,  II. M.S.,  64  note 

Orkney,  Mary,  Countess  of,  93  note 

Orleans,  Due  d',  at  Lady  Salisbury's, 
36  ;  at  Lyons,  243  ;  in  Paris,  301 

Orleans,  Duchesse  d',  in  Paris,  301 

Orleans,  Mile,  d',  at  Llangollen,  266 
note 

Ormonde,  John,  17th  Earl  of,  266 
note 

Ormsby,  Henry,  14  note 

Osborne,  Lord  Francis,  visit  to,  322 

Osborne,  Lord  Sydney,  at  Firle,  86 

Ospringe,  92,  94 

Ouseley,  Lady,  her  assembly,  329 

Ouseley,  Rt.  Hon.  Sir  Gore,  his 
career,  329  note 

Oxberry,  Mr.,  actor,  358 

Oxford,  Christ  Church  College,  28 
note,  125 

Oxford,  Edward,  5th  Earl  of,  342 
note 

Pack,  General,  at  Waterloo,  253 
Paddington,  a  honeymoon  at,  361 
Paget,  Lady  Jane,  Mrs.  Calvert  on, 

319 
Paget,    Lord,    career   of,    119   note; 
elopement  of,  126;  in  Spain,  120 ; 
letters  from,  119,  136;  loses  a  fin, 
136.     See  2nd  Earl  of  Uxbridge 


INDEX 


415 


Paine's  Hill,  Cobham,  visits  to,  88, 

114 

Pakenham,  Captain,  death  of,  182 
Pakenham,  Kitty,  66.     See  Duchess 

of  Wellington 
Pakenham,    Sir   Edward,    killed    at 

New  Orleans,  242 
Palafox,  Don  Jose  de,   defender  of 

Saragossa,  128 
Palmer,  Mary,  93  note 
Palmerston,  Lady,  49  note 
Palmerston,  Lord,  at  Bowood,  1850, 

242  note 
Pampeluna,  surrender  of,  212 
Pantheon,  London,  6,  162,  265  note 
Paris,  14 

—  Allies  enter,  219 

—  Calvert    family    in,    256-8,    272, 

295-302 

—  Catalani's  death  in,  71 

—  death  of  Mme.  de  Flahault  in,  155 

—  Lord   Granville,    Ambassador  in, 

149 

—  Louis  XVIII  re-enters,  255,  256 

—  Napoleon  returns  to,  244,  247 

—  Opera  House,  16  note 

—  Temple,  22  note,  369-373 

—  unsettled  state  of,  222,  244,  256, 
300 

—  Wellington  in,  226 

Park,  Sir  J.  Gordon  of,  112  note 

Parliament,  dissolution  of,  74,  78 

Parma,  Duchess  of,  221     • 

Parndon,  106,  271 

Parnell,  Sir  Henry,  obtains  Secre- 
taryship, 64 

Part  ant  pour  la  Syrze,  272  note 

Paterson,  Betsy.  See  Mme.  Jerome 
Bonaparte 

Paterson,  Mrs.,  and  the  Duke  of 
Wellington,  279,  280 

Patten,  Thomas,  355  note 

Paul,  Mr.,  his  duel  with  Sir  F. 
Burdett,  75 

Paulet,  Charles  Ingoldsby,  at  Lord 
Grantham's  ball,  328.  See  Mar- 
quess of  Winchester 

Paulet,  Mrs.,  at  the  Pavilion,  204 

Paulett,  John,  4th  Earl,  his  family, 
84  note,  204 

Paultons,  29  note 

Pechill,  Sir  Thomas,  43 

Peel,  Lady  Jane,  marriage  of,  228 
note 


Peel,  Rt.  Hon.  William  Yates,  his 

marriage,  228  note 
Peel,  Sir  Robert,  228  note 
Pelham,  funeral  of  Lord  Pery  at,  62, 

63 

Pemberton,  Dr.,  at  Baronscourt,  135 

Pembroke,  Earl  of,  324  note 

Penn,  Thomas,  238  note,  362  note 

Pepusch,  Dr.,  258  note 

Pepys,  Mr.,  at  Madingley,  350 

Pepys,  Samuel,  on  the  Vauxhall  Gar- 
dens, 164 

Perceval,  Mrs.  Crook,  375 

Perceval,  Mrs.  Spencer,  her  marriage 
to  General  Carr,  240 

Perceval,  Mrs.,  her  pension,  185 

Perceval,  Rt.  Hon.  Spencer,  appoints 
Mr.  York  as  Teller  of  Exchequer, 
153 ;  assassination  of,  184,  185 ; 
his  Chancellorship  of  the  Duchy  of 
Lancaster  contested,  73  ;  his  pro- 
posals for  the  Regency,  169 ; 
receives  threatening  letters,  125 

Percy,  Lady  Emily  Frances,  marriage 
of,  145 

Percy,  Lord,  at  Mrs.  Mee's,  163.  See 
3rd  Duke  of  Northumberland 

Pere  Elisee,  169 

Persian  Ambassador,  his  attentions 
to  Isabella  Calvert,  159,  160;  his 
Circassian  girl,  330  ;  visit  from,  329 

Perth,  Clementina,  Countess  of,  at 
Brighton,  352 

Perth,  James,  nth  Earl  of,  352  note 

Perthshire  Volunteers,  196 

Pery,  Hon.  Diana  Jane,  birth  of,  3. 
See  Hon.  Mrs.  T.  Knox 

Pery,  Hon.  Frances,  birth  of,  3  ;  her 
Journal,  4.    See  Hon.  Mrs.  Calvert 

Pery,  Hon.  William  Cecil,  killed  at 
St.  Sebastian,  208,  210,  218; 
leaves  the  Navy,  156 

Pery,  Lady  Albinia,  20 

Pery,  Lady  Frances,  her  marriage  to 
Sir  H.  Calder,  329,  331 

Pery,  Lady  Louisa,  360 

Pery,  Lady  Lucy,  her  illness,  108  ; 
her  marriage  to  Mr.   Stephenson, 

259 
Pery,  Lady  Mary,  at  Windsor,  35  ; 

her  love  affair,  271  ;   in  London, 

108 
Pery,  Lady  Theodosia,  illness  of,  27, 

32 


416 


INDEX 


Pery,  Edmond  Sexten,  Viscount,  24 
note ;  at  Edmonsbury,  364  note ; 
bust  of,  69  ;  his  career,  375  ;  his 
character,  61,  63  ;  his  death  and 
burial,  4,  60-3 ;  his  marriage,  3, 
374  ;  tribute  to,  from  Grattan,  44 

Pery,  Elizabeth,  Viscountess,  24  note ; 
at  Brighton,  259 ;  at  Hertford 
Castle,  12,  13  ;  at  Hunsdon,  48,  68  ; 
at  Tunbridge,  105  ;  descent  of,  4  ; 
her  death,  352-4 ;  her  house  at 
Richmond,  201  ;  her  illness,  261, 
334  ;  visits  to  and  from,  63,  65,  66, 
99,  100,  102,  133 

Peter  the  Great,  at  Saardam,  303 

Petersham,  Lady  Caroline,  164 

Petre,  Mr.,  at  Almack's,  329,  330 

Petre,  Robert  Edward,  10th  Baron, 
his  daughter's  elopement,  37 

Pettingall,  Rev.  Mr.,  115 

Petty  family,  the,  29 

Petty,  Lord  Henry,  stands  for  Cam- 
bridge, 60 

Phipps,  Jonathan  Wathen,  marriage 
of,  191.     See  Waller 

Phipps,  Joshua,  191  note 

Phillipps,  Catherine,  14  note 

Phillips,  Stephen,  37 

Pickford,  Miss,  51 

Pickwick  Papers,  359 

Picton,  Sir  Thomas,  killed  at 
Waterloo,  248,  250,  251,  279;  on 
Felix  Calvert,  233 

Pigot,  Mr.,  his  marriage,  200 

Pigram,  Thomas,  27 

Pilot,  The,  204 

Pitt,  General  Sir  William  Augustus,  8 

Pitt,  Hon.  Anne.  See  Lady  Gren- 
ville 

Pitt,  Lady,  at  Brighton,  8 

Pitt,  William,  death  of,  60 ;  his 
accusation  against  Tierney,  136 
note  ;  his  political  career,  13,  15, 
37  ;  reconciled  to  Lords  Sidmouth 
and  Buckinghamshire,  41 

Plas  Newydd,  266  note 

Platoff,  Count,  at  White's  ball,  230 ; 
his  career,  230  note 

Plumer,  Mrs.,  her  husband's  death, 
361  ;  visit  from,  46 

Plumer,  M.P.,  William,  46  note 

Plymouth,  92 ;  troops  from  Spain 
land  at,  120-2 

Pole,  Admiral  Sir  Charles   Morice, 


355    note ;    at    dinner    with,    78 ; 

visit  to,  346 
Pole,  Charles,  of  Holtcroft,  78  note 
Pole,    Henrietta,    her    marriage    to 

William  Stuart,  355 
Pole,  Hon.   William,    171.     See  3rd 

Earl  of  Mornington 
Pole,   Hon.   William   Wellesley,  his 

marriage,  180  note,  181.     See  2nd 

Earl  of  Mornington 
Pole,  Lady  {ne'e  Millicent  Pole),  her 

assemblies,  247,  319  ;  Mrs.  Calvert 

on,  78. 
Pole,  Miss,  her  marriage  to  Lord  F. 

Somerset,  233;  in  Paris,  221 
Pole,   Priscilla   Anne,   her   marriage 

with  Lord  Burghersh,  17 1 
Pole-Carew,   Amabel,   at  Aldenham 

Abbey,  346 
Pole-Carew,  Rt.  Hon.  Reginald,  126 

note,  346  note 
Poligny,  M.  de,  336 
Pollington,  John,  Viscount,  marriage 

of,  78,  80 
Pomfret,    Mary,  Countess  of,  at  the 

ball,  Brighton,  85 
Pomfret,    George,    3rd    Earl   of,    85 

note 
Pompeii,  325 
Pons,     M.,    discoverer    of    Encke's 

Comet,  331  note 
Ponsonby,   Chambre  Brabazon,   266 

note 
Ponsonby  Lady  Caroline.    See  Lamb 
Ponsonby,  Sarah,  her  life  at  Llan- 
gollen, 266,  362 
Poole,  Reginald.     See  William  Hunt 
Pope,  Alexander,  Letters,  65  note 
Popham,  Sir  Home,  62  note  ;  under 

arrest,  71 
Port,  Miss,  348 
Portarlington,     Countess    of,    visits 

from,  65 
Portarlington,  Earl  of,  17  note,  64 
Porteous,    Bishop   of   London,    con- 
firmations  by,   35,  73,    129,    244, 

342 
Portland,  Duke  of,  as  Premier,  72, 

184  note 
Portman,  Lord,   owner   of  Montagu 

House,  182  note 
Portsmouth,    87,     126,    243 

—  Felix  Calvert  at,  107,  160,  183 

—  royalties  at,  231 


INDEX 


417 


Portsmouth,  troops  arrive  at,  12 1,  122 

Portugal,  108 

Potomac  river,  the,  237 

Potsdam,  310  note 

Poulett,  John,  4th  Earl,  his  second 

marriage,  264 
Prideaux  Place,  Cornwall,  355  note 
Prideaux,  Rev.  Charles,  his  marriage, 

355  note 
Prideaux  Brune,  Mrs.,  her  ball,  355 
Primrose,  Lady,  will  of,  198 
Princess  Charlotte,  H.M.  Frigate,  92 
Promissory  Note,  The,  350 
Provoked  Husband,  The,  83,  271 
Prussia,  Prince  Royal  of,  his  relations 

with  Miss  Rumbold,  240  ;  Princess 

Charlotte  proposes  to,  235 
Puckler  -  Muskau,    Prince,    on     the 

Ladies  of  Llangollen,  266  note 
Pulltusk,  H.M.  Brig,  Edmond  Knox 

appointed  to,  141 
Pulltuska,  battle  of,  14 1  note 

Quadrille,  introduction  of  the,  262 
Quaker,  The,  143  note 
Queensberry,  Duke  of,  death  of,  169  ; 

his  career,  170 
Quidenham  Park,  357  note 
Quin,  George,  34  note 
Quin,  Lady  Georgiana,  at  Thun,  291 
Quin,  Lord  George,  at  Thun,  291  ; 

his  marriage,  217 
Quin,  Windham  Henry,  marriage  of, 

161.     See  2nd  Earl  of  Dunraven 
Quinsborough,  Co.  Clare,  33  note 

Radcliffe,  Lady  Francis,  34 
Raeburn,  his  portrait  of  Sir  David 

Dundas,  128 
Raglan,  Fitzroy,  Baron,  creation  of, 

233  note,  296 
Ragley  Hall,  the  Prince  of  Wales  at, 

90 
Ragusa,  Duchesse  de,  in  Paris,  301 
Raikes,  on  the  Duke  of  Queensberry, 

170 
Ramsgate,  98,   105,   121,   145;   visit 

to,  144-8 
Randolph,  John,  Bishop  of  London, 

244 
Ranelagh,  232 
Ranfurly,   Diana  Jane,  Countess  of, 

at  Boulogne,  365  ;  her  funeral,  62 

note.     See  Hon.  Mrs.  T.  Knox 


Ranfurly,   Thomas,   1st    Earl  of,  4, 

183  note.     See  Hon.  T.  Knox 
Raphael,  pictures  by,  278 
Rathangan,  Co.  Kildare,  334  note 
Rathdonnell,  Lord,  318  note 
Rawlinson,  Lady,  visits  to,  83,  123 
Rawlinson,  Lord  James,  123 
Rawlinson,  Sir  Walter,  death  of,  38 
Rayleigh,    Charlotte,    Baroness,    her 

creation,  342  note 
Rayleigh,   John   James,    2nd   Lord, 

342  note 
Reade,  Lady  Mary,  her  birth,  322 
Rebecca,  Biaggio,  his  work  at  Mel- 
bourne House,  96 
Reggio,  Duchesse  de,  at  Suresne,  302 
Reichstadt,  Duke  of,  301  note 
Reynolds,  Sir  Joshua,  152;  his  house 
at  Richmond,  212  note;    his  col- 
lection of  pictures,  200  ;  his  niece, 
93  note  ;  his  portrait  of  the  Ladies 
Waldegrave,  26  ;    his  portraits  of 
the  Duchess  of  Rutland,  77  note 
Rhine,  Allies  cross  the,  214 
Rice,  Theodora,  350 
Rice,    Thomas    Spring.      See    Lord 

Monteagle 
Richardson's  Lottery,  26 
Richmond,    Lady    Pery's    house   at, 

201,  208 
—  Sir  Joshua   Reynolds'   house   at, 

212  note 
Richmond,     Duchess     of,     on     her 

daughter,  258  note 
Richmond,  2nd  Duke  of,  129  note 
Richmond,     Charles     Lennox,     4th 
Duke  of,  31  note;  as  Lord-Lieu- 
tenant of  Ireland,  73  ;  his  ball  on 
the  eve   of    Waterloo,    249 ;    his 
daughters,    258,    277 ;     his   death 
when  Governor-General  of  Canada, 
73    note ;    in    Brussels,    279 ;    in 
Dublin,  171 
Richter,     Gustav,    his     portrait     of 

Queen  Louise,  229 
Rigaud,  J.  F.,  96  note 
Rigi,  the,  visit  to,  1817,  289 
Rivals,  The,  197 
Robarts,  Colonel,   at   Mrs.    Fitzher- 

bert's,  213 
Robbins,  Thomas,  316  note 
Robinson,  Colonel,  137  note 
Robinson,  Henrietta,  238,  334,  357 
Robinson,  Henry,  332 


4L8 


INDEX 


Robinson,  Jane,  225,  357 

Robinson,  Lady,  at  Blackheath,  102  ; 
at  Hunsdon,  357  ;  her  assemblies, 
245.  321  J  her  balls,  330,  341  ;  her 
sons,  198,  332  ;  visit  to,  348 

Robinson,  Lady  Helena,  her  son's 
birth  and  death,  210 

Robinson,  Louisa,  225,  334  ;  her 
marriage  to  William  Knox,  360 

Robinson,  Mr.,  his  Corn  Law  Act, 
241  note,  242,  243,  245 

Robinson,  Rev.  Sir  John,  360  note; 
gives  a  dinner,  228  ;  his  baronetcy, 
334 ;  his  daughter,  238 ;  visit  to, 
348 

Robinson,  Richard,  marriage  of,  198 

Rocca,  M.  de,  293  note 

Rockville,  Alexander,  Lord,  296  note 

Rokeby,  Lord,  Primate  of  Ireland,  5 

Roman  bath  at  Hunsdon,  174 

Roman  Catholic  Relief  Bill  de- 
feated, 1 81 3,  200 

Rome,  French  Ambassador  at,  154 

Rome,  King  of,  301 

Romeo  and  Juliet,  258 

Romilly,  Sir  Samuel,  his  election  for 
Westminster,  321 

Romney,  1st  Earl  of,  36  note 

Rook,  Mr.,  178 

Roper,  Hon.  Gertrude,  332  note. 
See  Lady  Dacre 

Ross,  General,  122,  123  ;  captures 
Washington,  237  ;  killed  at  Balti- 
more, 238 

Ross  Hill,  Co.  Galway,  29  note 

Rossi,  the  sculptor,  his  bust  of  Lord 
Pery,  69 

Rosslyn,  Henrietta,  Countess  of,  at 
dinner  with,  101 

Rosslyn,  James  St.  Clair,  2nd  Earl 
of,  at  dinner  with,  roi  ;  succession 
of,  31 

Rossmore,  Robert,  Baron,  his  mar- 
riage, 346  note 

Rossmore,  Elizabeth,  Lady,  her  ac- 
tivity in  age,  24,  29,  364 

Rostopchin,  Count  Feodor,  at 
Baden,  285 

Rotterdam,  visit  to,  1817,  304 

Rous,  Admiral  Henry  John,  at  Bury 
St.  Edmunds,  334,  349,  350 

Rous  of  Dennington,  John,  Baron, 
333  note.     See  Earl  of  Stradbroke 

Rous,  Frances  Lady,  at  Bury,  333 


Rowley,  Captain,  dances  with,  333, 

334,  342,  349 
Rowley,  Charles,  at  Bury,  349,  350 
Rowley,  Georgiana,  355 
Rowley,  Lady,  in  the  West  Indies, 

350  ;  visits  to,  334,  348 
Rowley,  Louisa,  350 

Rowley,  Sir  Charles,  356  ;  visit  to, 

342 
Rowley,  Sir  Joshua,  334  note 
Rowley,  Sir  William,  at  Bury,  333 
Rowley,  Sophia,  her  death,  356 
Rowley,    Susan   Arabella,  her  mar- 
riage to  Colonel  Mercer,  348 
Royal      Academy      Exhibitions     at 

Somerset  House,  67,  200 
Royston,    Philip,    Viscount,    lost    at 

sea,  98,  159 
Rubens,  his  work  at  Antwerp,  227, 

228 
Rumbold,  Emily,  her  marriage,  240 
Rumbold,  Lady,  23 
Rumbold,  Sir  George,  seized  by  the 

French,  22 
Russell  family,  the,  29 
Russell,  Lord  John,  at  Bowood,  1850, 

247  note 
Russian  fleet,  the,  1 10 
Ruth,  John,  41  note 
Rutland,  Mary  Isabella,  Duchess  of, 

beauty  of,  38,  42,  43,  77  ;  "runs" 

Miss  Noel,  79 
Rutland,  Charles,  4th  Duke  of,  his 

family,  38  note,  77  note,  228 
Rycroft,  Mr.,  83 
Ryder,  Miss,  210 
Ryder,  Mr.,  186 

Saardam,  visit  to,  1817,  303 
Sadleir,  Francis,  212  note 
Salamanca,  battle  of,  1 18,  188 
Sa/dhana,  H.M.  Frigate,  loss  of,  182 
Salisbury,  Mary  Amelia,  Marchioness 
of,    at    Hatfield    House,    346 ;    at 
Lady  Wellesley's,  71  ;  at  the  Hert- 
ford  Ball,   334 ;    at   the  Hertford 
Bazaar,  347  ;  at  the  Hertford  elec- 
tion,    190;    burnt    to    death,    36 
note ;  entertains  the  great,  79,  80, 
107,  227,  233  ;  her  assemblies,  36, 
124,  125,  198,  199,  246,  310,  311, 

351  ;  her  concerts,  48,  10 r  ;  her 
patronage  of  Mrs.  Devis,  24  ;  Mrs. 
Calvert  on,  187 


INDEX 


419 


Salisbury,  James,  7th  Earl  and  1st 
Marquess  of,  214  note;  his  mar- 
riage, 36  note  ;  his  son,  189  note  ; 
toasts  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  234 

Salisbury,  2nd  Marquess  of,  189 
note,  357  note 

Saltoun,  Alexander,  15th  Baron,  144 
note 

Saltoun,  1 6th  Baron,  at  Ramsgate, 
144 

Saltoun,  Margaret,  Lady,  at  Rams- 
gate, 144  ;  her  assembly  at  Black- 
heath,  102 

San  Carlos,  Due  and  Duchesse  de, 
their  daughter's  marriage,  315 ; 
their  ball,  335,  336,  340 

Sandford,  Mr.,  26 

Sanspareil  Theatre,  London,  194 

Sandwich,  92 

Sandwich,  George  John  Montagu, 
6th  Earl  of,  37  note 

Saragossa,  fall  of,  128 

Saunders,  Dr.,  summoned  to  Lord 
Hamilton,  137 

Saunders,  John,  miniaturist,  116 

Saunderson,  Mrs.,  sister  of  Lydia 
White,  212  note 

Saxe-Coburg,  Prince  of,  Princess 
Charlotte  proposes  to,  235 

Saxe-Meiningen,  Adelaide,  Princess 
of,  her  marriage,  322.  See  Duchess 
of  Clarence 

Saxony,  King  of,  capture  of,  211 

Scarron,  Roman  Comique,  21 

Schaffhausen,  visit  to,  18 17,  288 

Scheldt,  the,  140 

Schleswig-Holstein,  Christian  Augus- 
tus, Duke  of,  318  and  note 

Schleswig-Holstein,  Frederick  Chris- 
tian, Duke  of,  318  note 

Scott,  Sir  Walter,  at  Llangollen,  266 
note  ;  on  Lydia  White,  213  note  ; 
The  Lady  of  the  Lake,  167 

Scott,  Sir  William,  his  marriage,  200 

Scott  Murray,   Mrs.,  her  balls,  319, 

329 
Seaforde,  99  note 
Sebastopol,  siege  of,  233  note  ;  296 

note 
Seboni,  at  Lady  Salisbury's  concert, 

101 
Sebright,  Lady,  at  Beechwood,  112  ; 

at  Brighton,  210;  her  separation, 

196 


Sebright,  Sir  John,  at  Hatfield,  357  ; 
at  the  Hertford  Ball,  149 ;  his 
daughters,  134,  268  note ;  Mrs. 
Calvert's  dislike  of,  20,  76,  78, 
112,  127,  153,  306;  stands  for 
Brighton,  74 

Sebright,  Thomas,  351 

Sefton,  Maria,  Countess  of,  her  dull 
party,  156 

Sefton,  William  Philip  Molyneux, 
2nd  Earl  of,  156  note;  presents 
tickets  to  the  Princess  of  Wales, 
223 

Segrave,  Baron.  See  Earl  Fitz- 
hardinge 

Segur,  Comtesse  de,  Livres  Roses, 
285  note 

Senior  United  Service  Club,  London, 
197 

Seringapatam,  capture  of,  39 

Sens,  visit  to,  1817,   294 

Seville,  Wellington's  entry  into,  150 

Sevres,  visit  to,  301 

Seward,  Anne,  at  Llangollen,  266 
note 

Seymour,  Lady  George,  her  ball  at 
Knightsbridge,  343 

Seymour,  Lady  Horatia,  17,  26 

Seymour,  Lord  Hugh,  17 

Seymour,  Mary,  adopted  by  Mrs. 
Fitzherbert,  17,  26,  81,83,  183 

Seze,  M.  de,  372 

Shaftesbury,  Lady,  caricature  of,  161 

Sharp,  "  Conversation,"  at  Lydia 
White's,  213  note 

Shaw,  Mr..  324 

She  Stoops  to  Conquer,  85 

Shee,  Sir  George,  at  dinner  with,  78, 
194 

Sheerness,  Felix  Calvert  at,  259 

Sherborne,  71  note 

Sheridan,  Mrs.,  at  the  Hertford  Ball, 
149 

Sheridan,  Richard  Brinsley,  his  mar- 
riages, 92  note,  136  note,  149; 
gives  Pitt  a  fine  trimming,  37  ; 
petitions  against  return  of  Lord 
Cochrane,  76  ;  visit  from,  60 

Shipley,  Colonel,  his  motion  con- 
cerning Lord  Burghersh,  136 

Shoe-making,   fashionable  craze  for. 

98 

Shotney  Hall,  89  note 
Shottesbrooke,  Berks,  86  note 


420 


INDEX 


Shrewsbury,  177,  362 

Siberia,  64 

Sicard,     Abbe,     instructor    of    deaf 

and  dumb,  247 
Sicily,  90,  153 
Siddons,  Mrs.,  at  Lydia  White's,  213 

note  ;    at  Mrs.   Thompson's,  200  ; 

in  Macbeth,  186 
Sidmouth,  Duke  of  Kent's  death  at, 

338 
—  Mrs.  Calvert  at,  365 
Sidmouth,  Henry,  Viscount,  charges 

brought  against,  130;   resignation 

of,  1805,  41.     See  Addington 
Siege  of  Belgrade,  The,  305 
Sieyes,  l'Abbe,  in  Brussels,  276 
Simmons,  Dr.,  34  note 
Sinigaglia,  70 

Sittingbourne,  George  Inn,  144 
Sligo,    Lady,   her    marriage    to    Sir 

W.  Scott,  200 
Sloane,  Hans,  29  note 
Smallpox,  inoculation  for,  7,  9,  13, 

19,  23,  27 
Smirke,     R.,    architect    of    Covent 

Garden  Theatre,  143  note 
Smith,  Hon.  Robert  John,  in  Paris, 

298.     See  Baron  Carrington 
Smith,    M.P.,   James,    25    note,    133 

note 
Smith,  Lady  Sydney,  her  daughters, 

240 
Smith,  Miss,  actress,  at  Lady  Kings- 
ton's, 209 ;  dines  with  Mrs.  Calvert, 

197 
Smith  Burges,  Sir  John,  264  note 
Smith,    Rev.     Sydney,    at    Berkeley 

Chapel,    127;   at    Lydia    White's, 

213    note  ;    on    Mrs.     Davy,    309 

note 
Smith,  Sir  Sydney,  in  Portugal,  90 
Smith,    William,   of    Parndon,    106, 

184,  271  ;  art  collector,  278 
Smithers,  Mr.,  339 
Smolensk,  192 
Smyrna  fleet,  the,  37 
Smythe,  Jack,  77 
Smythe,  Sir  John,  82  note 
Smythe,  Walter,  82  note 
Smythies,  William,  41  note 
Smythy,  Elizabeth,  6  note 
Soho  Bazaar,  320 
Solomon,  King,  his  fleet,  313 
Somerford,  Stirling,  363  note 


Somers,  Anne,  Lady  ;  her  assemblies  ; 

134,    146;    her   son's  death,    191, 

199  ;  visit  from,  126 
Somers,    Charles   Cocks,    1st   Lord, 

126  note,  191 
Somerset,  Lady  Charles,  at  the  Pavi- 
lion, 204  ;  at  the  Play,  84 
Somerset,  Lady  (Emily)  FitzRoy,  in 

Paris,  296 
Somerset,   Lady    Mary   Isabella,  84 

note.     See  Duchess  of  Rutland 
Somerset,    Lord   Charles,    his    mar- 
riages, 84  note 
Somerset,  Lord  Fitzroy,  his  career, 

233 ;    in    Paris,    296.     See    Baron 

Raglan 
Somerset  House,  exhibitions  at,  67, 

200 
Somerset,  Mrs.,  at   Lydia   White's, 

213  note 
Somnambule,  Le,  298 
Sophia  of  Gloucester,  Princess,  40 ; 

at  Court,  194,  344;  at  the  Prince 

Regent's  balls,   178,   195;  her  ru- 
moured marriage,  265 
Sopwell  Hall,  212  note 
Southampton,  Lord,  248 
South  Beveland,  141 
Southey,   Robert,  The  Maid  of  the 

Inn,  197 
Southill  Park,  visits  to,  115,  116,  358, 

360 
Soult,  Marshal,  defeats  of,  136,  203  ; 

erects   a   monument    to   Sir   John 

Moore,  130  ;  his  kindness  to  Major 

Napier,  130 
Southwark,  Tierney,  M.P.   for,   136 

note 
Southwell,    Hon.      Elizabeth.      See 

Countess  of  Albemarle 
Souza,  Madame  de,  154 
Spa,  visit  to,  1817,  280 
Spanish  Ambassadors  at  Wimbledon, 

103 
Spanish  prisoners,  109 
Sparrow,  Brigadier-General  Robert, 

162  note 
Sparrow,    Lady   Olivia,    her    party, 

1810,  162 
Spectator,  The,  32 
Speen  Hill,  360 
Spencer,  Lavinia,    Countess   of,  21, 

221;    at    dinner    with,    78,    157; 

godmother  to  Lavinia  Calvert,  7 ; 


INDEX 


421 


her  ball,  45  ;  on  her  daughter-in- 
law,  218  ;  visits  to,  104,  161,  197 

Spencer,  George  John,  2nd  Earl,  7 
note,  45  note,  64  note ;  at  dinner 
with,  78,  157  ;  favours  the  Roman 
Catholics,  75 ;  his  copy  of  the 
Memoirs  of  Marlborough,  134  ;  his 
seat  at  Wimbledon,  103 

Spencer,  John  Charles,  3rd  Earl, 
succession  of,  218  note 

Spencer,  James,  133  note,  307  note, 
334  note 

Spencer,  Lady  Amelia,  84  and  note 

Spencer,  Lady  Caroline.  See  Lady 
Clifden 

Spencer,  Lady  Georgina,  her  mar- 
riage to  Lord  Quin,  217 

Spencer,  Lady  Sarah,  45 ;  at  Mrs. 
Knox's  ball,  100 ;  her  marriage, 
100  note 

Spencer,  Lord  Francis,  his  home  life, 

84 
Spencer,  Miss,  242  note 
Spithead,  106;  mutiny  at,  II 
Spoilt  Child,  The,  186 
Stael,  Madame  de,  309  note  ;  at  Lady 

Kingston's,  209  ;  death  of,  292 
Stael-Holstein,  Baron,  292  note 
Stafford,  Elizabeth,  Marchioness  of, 

her  assemblies,  184,  223,  329 
Stafford,     George     Granville,      2nd 

Marquess   of,    his   marriage,    101, 

329  note.     See  Duke  of  Sutherland 
St.   Albans,  Duke  of  Wellington  a 

freeman  of,  233 
—  riots  at,  75 

Stalbridge,  Dorset,  118  note 
Standish,  Rowland,  259  note 
Stanhope  Spencer  family,  in  Paris,  298 
Stanhope,  John   Spencer,   his   mar- 
riage, 349  note 
Stanhope,    Lady   Anna    Maria,    her 

marriage,    103,    108.      See    Lady 

Tavistock 
Stanhope,  Major,  218 
Stanhope,  Miss,  in  Paris,  296 
Stanley,  Lady,  82  note 
Stanley,    Edward  Smith,    Viscount, 

at    Lord    Grantham's    ball,    328. 

See  Earl  of  Derby 
Staples,  Anne,  114  note.     See  Hon. 

Mrs.  G.  Knox 
Staples,  Lady,  at  Park  Street,  47  ; 

visit  to,  364 


Staples,  Sir  Robert,  30  note ;  364 
note 

St.  Cloud,  visit  to,  1817,  302 

Stephens,  Catherine,  at  Covenl  Gar- 
den, 258;  at  Vauxhall,  165;  her 
marriage  to  the  Earl  of  Essex,  258 
note,  269  note 

Stephens,  Edward,  258  note 

Stephenson,  Henry,  78  note,  349 
note 

Stephenson,  Rowland,  marriage  of, 
259.     See  Standish 

Stewart,  Lady  Catherine,  her  hus- 
band's letter  from  Portugal,  137 

Stewart,  Major  and  Mrs.,  at  Huns- 
don,  271 

St.  George,  Mrs.,  363 

St.  Germains,  visit  to,  18 17,  301 

St.  Helena,  269  note 

St.  Helen's,  107 

St.  Helens,  Lord,  in  Paris,  309  note 

Stirling,  Mrs. ,  Coke  of  Norfolk,  248 
note 

St.  John,  Mrs.,  her  assemblies,  162 

St.  Julians,  Herts.,  50  note 

St.  Leonard's,  near  Windsor,  visit  to, 
188 

Stoke-by-Nayland,  334 

St.  Omer,  224 

Strachan,  Sir  Richard,  at  Walcheren, 
140 

Stradbroke,  John,  Earl  of,  333  note, 
349  note 

Stralsund,  surrender  of,  87,  93 

Strathallan,  Viscount,  32  note 

Strathnaver,  Elizabeth,  Baroness  of. 
See  Countess  of  Sutherland 

Strawberry  Hill,  visit  to,  207 

Stronge,  Captain  Edmond  Robert 
Francis,  his  birth  and  baptism, 
363,  364  ;  his  career,  363  note 

Stronge,  Frances  Helen,  birth  of, 
235.     See  Mrs.  Nugent 

Stronge,  James  Mathew,  at  Huns- 
don,  232  ;  birth  and  baptism  of, 
181,  183 

Stronge,  John  Calvert,  at  Hunsdon, 
232  ;  birth  and  baptism  of,  197-200 

Stronge,  Lady  (mother  of  Sir  James 
Stronge),  181,  340 

Stronge,  Lady,  {see  Isabella  Calvert) 
at  Brighton,  184,  259,  351  ;  at 
Edmond  Knox's  wedding,  202 ; 
at    Geneva,    318,  423;   at  Huns- 


422 


INDEX 


don,  177,  179,  232,  241  ;  at 
Mrs.  Knox's,  199  ;  her  children, 
181,  188,  197-9,  232,  234,  267;  318, 
356,  362-4  ;  her  dance,  341  ;  her 
portrait,  323  ;  her  travels,  256, 
257,  272-94,  321,  323,  324,  331  ; 
in  Ireland,  168,  169  ;  presented  at 
Court,  245 

Stronge,  Pauline;  her  birth  and 
baptism,  318  ;  her  looks,  331  ;  her 
marriage  to  Captain  Bunbury,  318 
note  ;  visits  her  grandmother,  345, 
356 

Stronge,  Sir  James,  at  dinner  with, 
i°4>  l97i  2O0>  234  ;  at  Hunsdon, 
167  ;  at  thecoronationof  GeorgelV, 
356  ;  his  travels  abroad,  244,  272- 
94  ;  introduced  to  the  Duke  of 
Clarence,  247 ;  on  Miss  Stuart, 
238 ;  proposes  at  Vauxhall,  165, 
166  ;  sends  word  of  Felix  Calvert, 
250 

Strutt,  Colonel  Joseph  Holden,  M.P. 
for  Maiden,  342  note 

Strutt,  John  James,  at  Mrs.  Calvert's 
ball,  342.     See  Lord  Rayleigh 

Strutt,  Lady  Charlotte,  her  ball,  342. 
See  Lady  Rayleigh 

Strype's  Memorial,  175 

St.  Sebastian,  storming  of,  156  note, 
204,  206,  208 

Stuart,  Captain,  marriage  of,  77 

Stuart,  General,  his  clever  son,  199 

Stuart,  Hon.  William,  Archbishop 
of  Armagh,  his  death  by  poison- 
ing, 362 

Stuart,  Elizabeth,  Lady,  at  dinner 
with,  207 ;  her  beautiful  daughters, 
295  note  ;  in  Paris,  295 

Stuart,  Lady  Caroline,  65  note.  See 
Lady  Portarlington 

Stuart,   Lady  Henry,  her  marriage, 

43 
Stuart,  Lord  Henry,  Ambassador  at 

Stuttgart,  43 
Stuart,  Mary  Juliana,  proposed  to  by 

Thomas  Knox,  238 
Stuart,  Robert,  Lord,  his  marriage, 

137.     See  Earl  of  Castle  Stewart 
Stuart,  Sophia,  362 
Stuart,  William,   at  Hunsdon,  358  ; 

at  Vauxhall,    321  ;    his   marriage, 

355 
Stuart   de   Rothsay,   Charles,   Lord, 


295    note ;    at    Lisbon,    207 ;    in 

Paris,  295 
Sturke,  Miss,  milliner,  137 
Stuttgart,  191  note 

—  Lord  Henry  Stuart,  Ambassador 
at,  43 

—  visit  to,  1817,  285 

Suchet,  Marshal,  defeated  by  General 

Murray,  200 ;  in  Paris,  301 
Sudermania,     Duke    of,     appointed 

Regent  of  Sweden,  129 
Sullivan,  Lady  Harriet,  in  Hamilton 

Place,  96;    postpones   her    party, 

199  ;  visit  to,  77 
Suresnes,  visit  to,  1817,  302 
Surrey,  Thomas,  Earl  of,  175 
Sussex,    Augustus   Frederick,    Duke 

of,  at    Almack's,   312;    at  Court, 

152  ;  at  Mrs.  Calvert's  dance,  342  ; 

at  the  Prince  Regent's  ball,  178 
Sutherland,    Elizabeth,   Countess  of, 

her  marriage,  329  note 
Sutherland,    George,    Duke    of,    his 

creation,  329  note 
Swalcliffe  Park,  311  note 
Swallow,  H.M.  Frigate,  204 
Sweden  at  peace  with  Denmark,  215 

—  expedition  to,  96-106 

—  King  of,  34  note 
Swift,  Dean,  65  note 
Switzerland,    Mrs.   Calvert  in,   272, 

288-94 
Sybil 'le,  350 

Sydney,  1st  Earl,  49  note,  50 
Sydney,  Caroline,  Viscountess,  death 

of,  49 
Sydney,  John  Thomas,  2nd  Viscount, 

49  note 
Sydney,  Thomas,   1st  Viscount,   140 

note 

Talavera,    Viscount   Wellington   of, 

141.     See  Wellington 
Talbot,  Thomas,  177  note 
Talleyrand,    his    reputed    son,    154, 

272  ;  his  stories  of  Shee,  194  note  ; 

policy  of,  219 
Talleyrand,  Madame,  in  England,  244 
Talma,  in  fidhis  Cccsar,  170 
Tancred,  Lady,  plays  Casino,  38,  41 
Tankerville,  Lady,  visit  to,  88 
Taplow,  Baron  Thomond  of,  93  note 
Tash,  Honor,  godmother  to  Richard 

Charles  Calvert,  55 


INDEX 


423 


Tash,  Sir  John,  54  note 

Tash,    Thomas,    his   legacy   to    Mr. 

Calvert,  269,  272  ;  Mrs.  Calvert's 

dislike  of,  54,  55 
Taverham  Hall,  Norfolk,  35  note 
Tavistock,    Lord    and    Lady,    their 

marriage,  103,  108 
Taylor,  Lady  Mary,  visit  from,  59 
Taylor,  Mr.,  at  Stuttgart,  285,  286 
Taylor,  Mrs. ,  her  ball,  330 
Taylour,  Lord  George.     See  Quin 
Teinach,  visit  to,  181 7,  285-8 
Ttmtraire,  H.M.S.,  88 
Temple,  Edmond,  197 
Temple,  Lord  and  Lady,  at  dinner 

with,  157 
Temple,  Mary,  364 
Templeton,  Lady,  visit  from,  no 
Tendring   Hall,    Suffolk,    333   note, 

334  note,  348  note  ;  visit  to,  1819, 

334 
Tenedos,  the,  246 

Tennant,  H.M.  Flagship,  227  note 
Terry,  Mr.,  actor,  358 
Tervoe,  376 

Tew,  Helen,  166  note,  246,  305,  351 
Tew,  Mr.,  death  of,  334 
Thackeray,  d.d.,  George,  309  note 
Thackeray,    Mary  Anne,    death  of, 

309,  3io 
Thackeray,    Richmond    Makepeace, 

309  note,  379 
Thackeray,  William  Makepeace,  his 

relations,  309  note  ;   on  Vauxhall 

Gardens,    165  ;     Fendennis,    249  ; 

Vanity  Fair,  157 
Thame  Park,  31 1  note 
Thistlewood,  Arthur,  arrest  of,  339 
Thomond,    Murrough    O'Brien,    1st 

Marquess  of,  death  of,  93 
Thompson  family,  in  Paris,  298 
Thompson,  Mrs.,  her  assemblies,  47, 

127,  200,  330,  340 
Thomson,  James,  his  Lavinia,  126 
Thornden  Hall,  Essex,  37  note 
Thrale,  Henry,  50  note 
Thrale,  Hester  Maria,  152  ;  marriage 

of,  50  note 
Thrale,  Queenie.     See  Lady  Keith 
Throckmorton,  Mr.,  at  Bury,  333 
Thun,  visit  to,  18 17,  290 
Thynne,   Lady   Elizabeth,   her  mar- 
riage, 232.      See  Countess  Cawdor 
Tierney,  George,  his  career,  136  note  ; 


his  reported  duel  with  Sir  F.  Bur- 

dett,    136  ;     on     the    Princess    of 

Wales,  235 
Tierney,    Sir    Matthew     John,     his 

medical   services    to   George    IV, 

338 
Tilsit,  Peace  of,  114,  230 
Timewell,  Mrs.  Calvert's  maid,  88  ; 

131,  132,  138,  217,  267  ;  her  cloak, 

146,  147 
Tisdall,  James,  307  note 
Tittenhanger,  43 
Tivoli,  fireworks  at,  321 
Torrens,  W.  M. ,  Memoirs  of  Viscount 

Melbourne,  96  note 
Torrington,  6th  Viscount,  247 
Tortosa,  battle  of,  202 
Toulon  fleet,  the,  42 
Tour  du  Pin,  Comte  and  Comtesse 

de  la,  290-2 
Tour  du  Pin  Gouvernet,  Hombert  de 

la,  290  note 
Tower  of  London,  Sir  F.  Burdett  in, 

156-8 
Townley,  Mrs.,  hostess  at  Ramsgate, 

145 
Townshend,   Hon.    Mary  Elizabeth, 

140  note 
Townshend,  Lady  Elizabeth  Frances, 

her  marriage  to  Captain  Clifford, 

210,  211  note 
Townshend,  Lord  John,  his  family, 

210,  211  note  ;   letters  from,  376 
Towry,  George,  278  note 
Trafalgar,  battle  of,  53,  66 
Trant,  Dominick,  334  note 
Trench,  Ladies,  in  Brussels,  275 
Trench,    William  Power.     See  Earl 

of  Clancarty 
Tronchet,  M.,  372 
Trotter,     John,     establishes     Soho 

Bazaar,  320  note 
Troyes,  Napoleon  at,  217 
Triiter,  Peter  John,  313  note 
Tubb's  Nursery  Garden,  96 
Tuite,  Lady,  at  Paine's  Hill,  88 
Tuite,  Sir  Henry,  88  note 
Tullibardine,  Lord,  his  insanity,  312. 

See  5th  Duke  of  Athole 
Tunbridge,  Viscountess  Pery  at,  105 
Tupper,  Mr.,  in  the  Corn  Law  riots, 

242 ;  medical  services  of,  58,  320, 

352 
Tuxford,  105 


424 


INDEX 


Tweeddale,  Marquis  of,  his  children, 

201  note 
Twelfth  Night  celebrations,  151 
Tynan  Abbey,   Armagh,    168 
—  visits  to,  267,  362-4 
Tyrconnel,  Lord,  31  note 
Tyrone,  Lord  Hamilton  and  Thomas 

Knox,  candidates  for,  135 
Tyrone  Militia,  363  note 

Ushant,   battle   of  1st   of  June,    9, 

64  note 
Uxbridge,  2nd  Earl  of,  119  note 
Uxbridge,    Countess    of,    her    son's 

letter,  136 

Vale  Mascall,  Kent,  54  note 
Vampire,  The,  356 

Vandanne,  General,  defeat  and  death 
of,  208 

Vandyke,  Sir  Anthony,  his  Cruci- 
fixion, 277 ;  his  wives'  portraits,  278 

Vanneck,  Caroline,  83,  85 

Vanneck,  Sir  Joshua,  24  note 

\  ansittart,  Colonel  and  Mrs.  Arthur, 
at  Firle,  86 

Vansittart,  Rt.  Hon.  Nicholas,  as 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  186. 
See  Lord  Bexley 

Vapor  Baths,  129 

Varsovie,  the,  dog  saved  from,  133, 

134 
Vassall,  Richard,  269  note 
Vaughan,  Mr.,  victim  of  a  footpad, 

307 
Vaux,  Baron,  164 
Vauxhall    Gardens,    79,    321,    331  ; 

history  of,  164 
Venice,  71,  212  note 
Ventry,  1st  Baron,  244  note 
Vere,  see  Hope  Vere 
Vereker,  Rt.   Hon.  Charles,  44  and 

note 
Verney,  Hon.  John,  and  May,  8 
Verney,   Mary.      See   Baroness  Fer- 
managh 
Verulam,  James  Walter,  1st  Earl  of, 

72  note,  328  note 
Verviers,  281 

Vesey,  George,  of  Lucan,  364 
Vesey,    Hon.    Elizabeth.      See  Lady 

Pery 
Vesey,  Jane,  her  marriage  to  Sir  R. 

Staples,  364  note 


Victoria,  Queen,  310  note;  birth  of, 

329 
Vienna,  French  Ambassador  at,  154 

—  taken  by  the  French,  135 

Vigo,   British   troops   embark   from, 
1 19-21 

—  surrender  of,  132 
Villa  Franca,  118 
Villcneuve,  Admiral,  53 

Villiers,  Lady  Gertrude.     See  Stuart 
Vincennes,  15  note 

—  visit  to,  1817,  299 
Vincent,  l'Abbe,  112,  124 
Vincent,  Mr.,  at  Vauxhall,  321 
Virgil's  tomb,  325 

Vittoria,  battle  of,  202,  206,  211 
Voltaire,  Life  of  Charles  XII,  99 

Waddington,  Mr.  and  Mrs.,  348 

Waithman,  Mr.,  M.P.  for  the  City, 
321 

Walcheren  Expedition,  the,  140,  145 

Waldegrave,  Elizabeth  Laura,  Coun- 
tess of,  her  daughter's  death,  35 

Waldegrave,  Maria,  Countess  of,  40 
note,  51  note  ;  at  Strawberry  Hill, 
207.     See  Duchess  of  Gloucester 

Waldegrave,  James,  2nd  Earl,  17 
note,  35 

Waldegrave,  George,  4th  Earl,  35 
note,  121  note 

Waldegrave,  5th  Earl,  121 

Waldegrave,  William,  8th  Earl,  116 
note 

Waldegrave,  Hon.  Edward,  lost  at 
sea,  121 

Waldegrave,  Lady  Iloratia.  See 
Seymour 

Waldegrave,  Mr.,  336,  340 

Walford,  E. ,  Old  and  New  London, 
157  note 

Walker,  Mr.,  126 

Waller,  James,  191 

Waller,  Jonathan  Wathen,  191  note 

Wallscourt,  Joseph  Henry  Blake,  3rd 
Baron,  at  the  Opera,  340 

Walpole,  Hon.  Miss,  at  Lady  Camp- 
bell's ball,  105 

Walpole,  Hon.  Mrs.  Richard,  24 ; 
concerned  for  the  health  of  the 
Prince  of  Wales,  72  ;  plays  Casino, 
35,  38,41,  45,47 

Walpole,  Hon.  Richard,  M.P.  for 
Yarmouth,  24  note 


INDEX 


425 


Walpole,  Horace,  his  collection  of 
curios,  207  ;  on  Caractacus,  99 
note ;  on  Elizabeth  Farren,  44 
note ;  on  Lady  Sarah  Lennox, 
129 ;  on  the  Vauxhall  Gardens, 
164 
Walpole,  Lady  Harriet,  her  mar- 
riage to  Sir  W.  Hoste,  270  note 
Walpole,   Lt.-Col.    the  Hon.   John, 

refused  by  Miss  Acklom,  83 
Walpole,  Lord,  his  daughter,  105 
Walpole,  Sir  Edward,  84  note 
Walpole  of  Wolterton,  Horatio,  Lord, 

24  note 
Walter,  Edward,  118  note 
Waltham   Cross,   48,   52,   102,    189, 

216 
Waltzing,  introduction  of,  177,  187, 

199,  213,  247,  262 
Wanderings  in  Piccadilly,  219  note 
Ward,  Lord,  at  Lydia  White's,  213 

note.     See  Lord  Dudley 
Ward,  Robert  Plumer,  46  note,  120 
Ware,  53 

Warre,  Jack,  220  ;  in  Paris,  297,  298 
Warre,  Mr.,   of  the  Admiralty,  117, 

121 
Warre,  Mrs.,  146;  Mrs.  Calvert  on, 

220;  visit  to,  312 
Warre,  Rev.  Francis,  255  note 
Warre,  Thomas,  visit  from,  220 
Warren,  Sir  John  Borlase,  squadron 

of,  66 
Warsaw,  Napoleon  at,  88 
Warwick,  Countess  of,  8  note 
Warwick,  Earl  of,  his  daughter,  103 
Washington,  capture  of,  237 
Waterford,    Lady,   her   beauty,    295 

note 
Waterloo,   battle  of,  119  note,  233, 

249-55 
—  visit  to,  1817,  279 
Waterstown,  Co.  Westmeath,  4 
Watford,  347  note 
Webster,  Sir  Godfrey,  269  note 
Wedgwood,  Josiah,  310  note 
Welbeck  Street  Chapel,  355 
Wellesley,  Hon.   Henry,   126  ;  mar- 
riage   of,     186    note.      See    Lord 
Cowley 
Wellesley,    Lady   Charlotte,    elope- 
ment of,  126 
Wellesley,    Marquess,    marriage   of, 
280  note 


Wellington,  Catherine,  Duchess  of, 
at  Ramsgate,  144  ;  her  baby  boy, 
71 ;  her  brothers,  223,  242  note ;  her 
musical  parties,  342,  343  ;  marriage 
of,  66,  67  note ;  returns  from 
Paris,  244  ;  visit  from,  136 

Wellington,  Arthur,  1st  Duke  of,  as 
Secretary  to  the  Lord  Lieutenant 
of  Ireland,  73 ;  as  Governor-Gen- 
eral in  India,  25  ;  in  the  Peninsula, 
39  note ;  his  marriage,  66 ;  at 
Lady  Mansfield's  assembly,  71  ;  in 
Mahratta  War,  94  note ;  his  dis- 
like of  oil,  100 ;  superseded  in 
Spain,  109,  no;  captures  Oporto, 
135 ;  his  physician,  137 ;  sim- 
plicity of,  138,  234;  defeats 
Joseph  Bonaparte,  138  ;  his  pro- 
motions, 141,  221  ;  his  entry  into 
Seville,  150 ;  defeats  Massena, 
168  ;  takes  Ciudad  Rodrigo,  183  ; 
defeats  Marmont  at  Salamanca, 
188;  at  Madrid,  189;  at  Vittoria, 
202  ;  at  Bordeaux,  218  ;  Blucher's 
compliment  to,  226  ;  on  Felix  Cal- 
vert, 233  ;  in  Paris,  233,  300 ;  at 
Hatfield,  233,  346;  at  Waterloo 
and  after,  250,  251;  report  of  his 
assassination,  256 ;  at  Llangollen, 
266  note  ;  in  Brussels,  278,  279 ; 
his  love  affairs,  280 ;  his  niece's 
death,  355 

Welshe  of  Hunsdon,  175 

Wembury,  Devon,  29  note 

Wenman,  Sophia  Elizabeth,  Baroness, 
creation  of,   215  note,   31 1    note 

Wentworth,  Mary,  Viscountess,  33 

Wentworth,  Thomas  Noel,  Viscount, 

33  note 
Westerna,  Warner  William,  364  note 
West  Harling,  Norfolk,  20  note 
West  Indies,  64 

—  East  estates  in,  123 

—  Edmond  Knox  in,  126 
Westmeath,  Emily,  Marchioness  of, 

marriage  of,  71  ;  separation  of, 
330  ;  visit  to,  308 

Westmeath,  George,  1st  Marquess  of, 
his  marriage,  71,  361  ;  his  separa- 
tion, 330 

Westminster,  election  at,  1818,  321 

Westminster  Hall,  trial  of  Lord  Mel- 
ville in,  40  note 

Westminster  School,  28  note 


426 


INDEX 


Westmorland,  Countess  of,  acting  at 
Brighton,  216 

Westmorland,  John,  10th  Earl  of, 
his  family,  21  note,  171,  296  note  ; 
his  political  career,  72 

Weymouth,  visit  to,  1789,  6 

Weymouth,  Thomas,  Viscount,  at 
Almack's,  330  ;  his  marriage,  316, 
318 

Whaley,  Richard  Chapel,  of  Whaley 
Abbey,  42  note,  114  note 

Wheatley,  Francis,  his  work  at  Mel- 
bourne House,  96 

Where  shall  we  dine  ?  332 

Whip  Club,  The,  162 

Whitbread,  Lady  Elizabeth,  115,  116 

Whitbread,  Miss,  116 

Whitbread,  Samuel,  his  career,  115, 
136  note,  226,  347  ;  moves  against 
Lord  Melville,  40;  M.P.  for  Bed- 
fordshire,    115;    suicide    of,    255 

Whitbread,  Samuel  Charles,  349  note 

White,  Henry.     See  Baron  Annaly 

Wicklovv,  William,  4th  Earl  of,  46 
note 

Wigram,  Money,  at  Hunsdon,  332 

Wilberforce,  William,  his  career,  345 
and  note 

Wilbraham,  Miss,  at  Hunsdon,  271 

Wild  Islanders,  7 'he,  57 

Wilkins,  Mrs.  Fitzhcrbert  and  George 
IV,  77  note 

White,  Lydia,  acts  in  The  Critic, 
214,  215;  at  Brighton,  216;  at 
Lady  Dunalley's,  212  ;  her  career, 
212  note 

White,  Luke,  acquires  property,  354 
note,  355 

White,  Stephen,  212  note 

White's  Club,  ball  at,  222,  229-31  ; 
visit  to,  1789,  6 

Whitelocke,  John,  329  note 

Whitton,  335 

Wickham,  Mr.,  Envoy  to  Switzer- 
land, 290 

Wicklow,  375 

William  I  of  Germany,  in  London, 
229 

William  I  of  the  Netherlands,  pro- 
clamation of,  213 

William  I  of  Wiirtemberg,  reign  of, 
286 

William  III,  King  of  Prussia,  318 
note 


William  IV,  191  note.     See  Duke  of 

Clarence 
William    of   Gloucester,    Prince,   at 

Mrs.    Calvert's,   38,   40 ;    thinness 

of,  36 
Williams,  Sir  Thomas  and  Lady,  313 
Williamson,  Dr.,  on  miniatures,  163 

note 
Willis,  Dr.,  5 

Willoughby  of  Parham,  Lord,  176 
"  Will  you  come  to  my  bower  ?"  157 
Wilmot,  Mrs.,  149  ;   her  play,  246 
Wilmot,  Valentine,  29  note 
Wilson,  Frances  Warter,  333  note 
Wilson,    Sir    Robert,    his    arrest   in 

Paris,  259,  260 
Wilson,  SirThomas  Spencer,  185  note 
Wilton  Park,  Bucks,  316  note 
Wiltshire,  Earl  of,  creation  of,  176 
Wimbledon,  103 
Wimiss,  Chateau  de,  291 
Winchester,   Anne,    Marchioness  of, 

intercourse  with,  at  Brighton,  89 
Winchester, Charles  Ingoldsby  Paulet, 

13th   Marquess   of,   89   note,    328 

note  ;  at   dinner  with,    101  ;  visit 

from,  92 
Windham,  Mr.,  34 
Windsor,  6 
Windsor    Castle,    ball   at,    32,    35  ; 

decorations    by    Rebecca    at,    96 

note;  installation  at,  1805,  41,  42 
Windsor    Terrace,    encounters    with 

royalty  on,  9,  1 1 
Wingfield,  Mr.,  124 
Winter,  Mrs.,  54 
Wiseton  Hall,  70,  218  note 
Woburn  Abbey,  house-party  at,  181 1, 

182 
Wolterton,  24  note 
Wonder  Woman  keeps  a  Secret,  The, 

67 
Wood,  Judge,  at  Hatfield,  346 
Wood,    Sir     Matthew,     champions 

Queen  Caroline,  343 
Woodford  Hall,  Essex,  346  note 
Woolwich,  fever  among  cadets  at,  34 
Worcester,  election  at,  321 
Worcester,       Georgina       Frederica, 

Marchioness  of,  her    death,    354 ; 

her  stockings,  340 
Worcester,   Henry,   Marquess   of,    at 

Carlton  House,  233  ;  his  marriage, 

234  ;  his  wife's  death,  355 


INDEX 


427 


Wordsworth,  William,  at  Llangollen, 

266  note 
Worlington,  visit  to,  1820,  348 
Woronzow  at  the  ball  at  Windsor, 

35 
Worthing,  visit  to,  1819,  331 
Worthy,  Sir  C.   Ogle,   2nd  Baronet 

of,  29  note 
Wortley,  Stuart,  his  motion  in  the 

House,  186 
Wright,  Mrs.,  67 
Wrightson,    Miss,   her  marriage    to 

Hon.  Mr.  Douglas,  334 
Wrightson,  Rev.  Mr.,  271 
Wiirtemberg,    Frederick,     King    of, 

11,  285  note 
Wiirtemberg,  Prince  Paul  of,  makes 

the  Prince  of  Orange  drunk,  226 ; 

unpopularity  of,  230 
Wiirtemberg,  Prince  Royal  of,  char- 
acter of,  230 
Wiirtemberg,    Queen  of,  her  death, 

327 ;     receives     Mrs.     Calvert    at 

Teinach,  285-8,  304,  305,  312,  317 
Wykeham,  Sophia  Elizabeth,  Duke 

of  Clarence  proposes   to,    31 1-4; 

refuses  Lord  Cranbourne,  215.   See 

Baroness  Wenman 
Wykeham,    William    Richard,    311 

note 
Wyndham,   Caroline,    marriage    of, 

161 
Wyndham,  Thomas,  162  note 
Wyndham,     William.       See     Lord 

Grenville 
Wyndham-Quin,   W.    H.      See   2nd 

Earl  of  Dunraven 
Wynne,  Mr.,  refused  by  Miss  Ack- 

lom,  77 
Wyvill,  Captain,  243 


Yarmouth  Roads,  99 

Yellow  Fever  at  Woolwich,  34 

York,  Fredrica,  Duchess  of,  7  ;  at 
Court,  152  ;  at  the  Prince  Regent's, 
178;  at  Wimbledon,  103;  death 
of,  346 

York,  Frederick,  Duke  of,  313  ;  at 
Alkmaar,  13  note ;  at  Carlton 
House,  233  ;  at  Mrs.  Fitzherbert's, 
76,  265  ;  his  levee,  218  ;  his  seat 
at  Oatlands,  88 ;  implicated  in 
army  scandal,  123-7,  130 ;  re- 
fused command  in  Spain,  104,  107 

York,  Lord  Chancellor,  153  note 

Yorke,  Hon.  Philip,  43,  77,  210; 
his  windows  smashed,  241.  See 
3rd  Earl  of  Hardwicke 

Yorke,  Hon.  Thomas,  his  dinner- 
party, 313 

Yorke,  Lady  Anne,  marriage  of,  78, 
80 

Yorke,  Mrs.  Philip,  at  Bury,  334 

Yorke,  Rev.  Philip,  126  note 

Yorke,  Rt.  Hon.  Charles  Philip, 
appointed  Teller  of  the  Exchequer, 
153;  as  First  Lord  of  the  Ad- 
miralty, 159  ;  career  of,  130  note  ; 
charges  brought  against,  130 

Yorke,  Sir  Joseph,  102  ;  marriage 
of,  200 

Young,  Admiral,  346 

Youngsbury,  visit  to,  50 

Zeeland,  Island  of,  87 

Zeppelin,    Count   Wilhelm,   loses   his 

eyesight,  191 
Zug,  visit  to,  1817,  288 


MiO  TICE 

Those  who  possess  old  letters,  documents,  corre- 
spondence, £MSS.,  scraps  of  autobiography,  and  also 
miniatures  and  portraits,  relating  to  persons  and 
matters  historical,  literary,  political  and  social,  should 
communicate  with  3VLr.  fohn  Lane,  The  Bodley 
Head,  Vigo  Street,  London,  W.,  who  will  at  all 
times  be  pleased  to  give  his  advice  and  assistance, 
either  as  to  their  preservation  or  publication. 


LIVING  MASTERS  OF  MUSIC 

An  Illustrated  Series  of  Monographs  dealing  with 
Contemporary  Musical  Life,  and  including  Repre- 
sentatives of  all  Branches  of  the  Art.  Edited  by 
Rosa  Newmarch.  Crown  8vo.  Cloth.  2s.  Gd.  net 
each  volume. 

HENRY  J.  WOOD.     By  Rosa  Newmarch. 

SIR   EDWARD   ELGAR.      By  R.   J.    Buckley. 

JOSEPH   JOACHIM.     By  J.   A.   Fuller  Maitland. 

EDWARD    MACDOWELL.      By  L.  Gilman. 

EDVARD  GRIEG.     By  H.  T.  Finck. 

THEODOR  LESCHETIZKY.     By  A.  Hullah. 

GIACOMO  PUCCINI.      By  Wakeling  Dry. 

ALFRED  BRUNEAU.      By  Arthur  Hervey. 

IGNAZ  PADEREWSKI.     By  E.  A.  Baughan. 

RICHARD  STRAUSS.      By  A.  Kalisch. 

CLAUDE  DEBUSSY.     By  Franz  Liebich. 

STARS    OF   THE    STAGE 

A  Series  of  Illustrated  Biographies  of  the  Leading 
Actors,  Actresses,  and  Dramatists.  Edited  by  J.  T. 
Grein.      Crown  8vo.     zs.  6d.  each  net. 

*»*  It  was  Schiller  who  said:  "  Twine  no  wreath  for  the 
actor,  since  his  wtrk  is  oral  and  ephemeral."  "Stars  of  the 
Stage"  may  in  some  degree  remove  this  reproach.  There  are 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  playgoers,  and  both  editor  and  publisher 
think  it  reasonable  to  assume  that  a  considerable  number  of  these 
would  like  to  know  something  about  actors,  actresses,  and 
dramatists,  whose  work  they  nightly  applaud.  Each  volume 
will  be  carefully  illustrated,  and  as  far  as  text,  printing,  and 
paper  are  concerned  will  be  a  notable  book.  Great  care  has  been 
taken  in  selecting  the  biographers,  who  in  most  cases  have 
already  accumulated  much  appropriate  ?naterial. 

First  Volumes. 
ELLEN  TERRY.     By  Christopher  St.   John. 
HERBERT  BEERBOHM  TREE.   By  Mrs.  George  Cran. 
W.  S.    GILBERT.      By  Edith  A.  Browne. 
CHAS.  WYNDHAM.    By  Florence  Teignmouth  Shore. 
GEORGE  BERNARD  SHAW.     By  G.  K.  Chesterton. 


A   CATALOGUE    OF 

MEMOIRS,  "BIOGRAPHIES,  ETC. 

WO%KS    UPON  NIAPOLEON 
NAPOLEON dfTHE  INVASION  OF  ENGLAND : 

The  Story  of  the  Great  Terror,  1 797-1 805.  By  H.  F.  B. 
Wheeler  and  A.  M.  Broadley.  With  upwards  of  100  Full- 
page  Illustrations  reproduced  from  Contemporary  Portraits,  Prints, 
etc. ;  eight  in  Colour.     Two  Volumes.     32/.  net. 

Outlook. — "The  book  is  not  merely  one  to  be  ordered  from  the  library;  it  should  be 
purchased,  kept  on  an  accessible  shelf,  and  constantly  studied  by  all  Englishmen  who 
love  England." 

DUMOURIEZ     AND     THE     DEFENCE     OF 

ENGLAND  AGAINST  NAPOLEON.  By  J.  Holland 
Rose,  Litt.D.  (Cantab.),  Author  of  "The  Life  of  Napoleon," 
and  A.  M.  Broadley,  joint-author  of  '*  Napoleon  and  the  Invasion 
of  England."  Illustrated  with  numerous  Portraits,  Maps,  and 
Facsimiles.     Demy  8vo.      21s.  net. 

THE     FALL     OF     NAPOLEON.        By    Oscar 

Browning,  m. a.,  Author  of  "The  Boyhood  and  Youth  of  Napoleon. " 
With  numerous  Full-page  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  finches). 
12s.  6d.  net. 

Spectator. — "  Without  doubt  Mr.  Oscar  Browning  has  produced  a  book  which  should  have 

its  place  in  any  library  of  Napoleonic  literature." 
Truth. — "  Mr.  Oscar  Browning  has  made  not  the  least,  but  the   most  of  the  romantic 

material  at  his  command  for  the  story  of  the  fall  of  the  greatest  figure  in  history." 

THE  BOYHOOD  &  YOUTH  OF  NAPOLEON, 

1 7  69- 1 79  3.  Some  Chapters  on  the  early  life  of  Bonaparte. 
By  Oscar  Browning,  m.a.  With  numerous  Illustrations,  Por- 
traits, etc.     Crown  8vo.     5/.  net. 

Daily  News. — "Mr.  Browning  has  with  patience,  labour,  careful  study,  and  excellent  taste 
given  us  a  very  valuable  work,  which  will  add  materially  to  the  literature  on  this  most 
fascinating  of  human  personalities." 

THE    LOVE   AFFAIRS    OF    NAPOLEON.     By 

Joseph  Turquan.  Translated  from  the  French  by  James  L.  May. 
With  32  Full-page  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo  (9  x  5^  inches). 
I2j.  6d.  net. 


A    CATALOGUE    OF 


THE  DUKE  OF  REICHSTADT(NAPOLEON  II.) 

By  Edward  de  Wertheimer.  Translated  from  the  German. 
With  numerous  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo.  21s.  net.  (Second 
Edition.) 

Times.— "  A  most  careful  and  interesting  work  which  presents  the  first  complete  and 
authoritative  account  of  the  life  of  this  unfortunate  Prince." 

Westminster  Gazette. — "This  book,  admirably  produced,  reinforced  by  many  additional 
portraits,  is  a  solid  contribution  to  history  and  a  monument  of  patient,  well-applied 
research." 

NAPOLEON'S  CONQUEST  OF  PRUSSIA,  1806. 

By  F.  Loraine  Petre.  With  an  Introduction  by  Field- 
Marshal  Earl  Roberts,  V.C.,  K.G.,  etc.  With  Maps,  Battle 
Plans,  Portraits,  and  16  Full-page  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo 
(9  x  5 1  inches),      izs.  6d.  net. 

Scotsman. — "  Neither  too  concise,  nor  too  diffuse,  the  book  is  eminently  readable.  It  is  the 
best  work  in  English  on  a  somewhat  circumscribed  subject." 

Outlook.  —  "  Mr.  Petre  has  visited  the  battlefields  and  read  everything,  and  his  monograph  is 
a  model  of  what  military  history,  handled  with  enthusiasm  and  literary  ability,  can  be." 

NAPOLEON'S  CAMPAIGN  IN  POLAND,  1806- 

1807.  A  Military  History  of  Napoleon's  First  War  with  Russia, 
verified  from  unpublished  official  documents.  By  F.  Loraine 
Petre.  With  16  Full-page  Illustrations,  Maps,  and  Plans.  New 
Edition.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches).      12/.  6d.  net. 

Army  and  Navy  Chronicle. — "We  welcome  a  second  edition  of  this  valuable  work.  .  .  . 
Mr.  Loraine  Petre  is  an  authority  on  the  wars  of  the  great  Napoleon,  and  has  brought 
the  greatest  care  and  energy  into  his  studies  of  the  subject." 

NAPOLEON      AND      THE      ARCHDUKE 

CHARLES.  A  History  of  the  Franco-Austrian  Campaign  in 
the  Valley  of  the  Danube  in  1809.  By  F.  Loraine  Petre. 
With  8  Illustrations  and  6  sheets  of  Maps  and  Plans.  Demy  8vo 
(9  x  S?4  inches).      12s.  6d.  net. 

RALPH  HEATHCOTE.    Letters  of  a  Diplomatist 

During  the  Time  of  Napoleon,  Giving  an  Account  of  the  Dispute 
between  the  Emperor  and  the  Elector  of  Hesse.  By  Countess 
Gunther  Groben.  With  Numerous  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo 
(9  x   5 J  inches).      \2s.  6d.  net. 

***  Ralph  Heathcote,  the  son  of  an  English  jather  and  an  Alsatian  mother,  "was  for 
some  time  in  the  English  diplomatic  service  as  first  secretary  to  Mr.  Brook  Taylor,  minister 
at  the  Court  of  Hesse,  and  on  one  occasion  found  himself  very  near  to  making  history. 
Napoleon  became  persuaded  that  Taylor  was  implicated  in  a  plot  to  procure  his  assassina- 
tion, and  insisted  on  his  dismissal  from  the  Hessian  Court.  As  Taylor  refused  to  be 
dismissed,  the  incident  at  07ie  time  seemed  likely  to  result  to  tlie  Elector  in  the  loss  of  his 
throne.  Heathcote  caine  into  contact  with  a  number  of  notable  people,  including  the  Miss 
Berrys,  with  whom  he  assures  his  mother  he  is  not  in  loz<e.  On  the  whole,  there  is  much 
interesting  material  for  lovers  of  old  letters  and  journals. 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.       5 
MEMOIRS  OF  THE  COUNT  DE  CARTRIE. 

A  record  of  the  extraordinary  events  in  the  life  of  a  French 
Royalist  during  the  war  in  La  Vendee,  and  of  his  flight  to  South- 
ampton, where  he  followed  the  humble  occupation  of  gardener. 
With  an  introduction  by  Frederic  Masson,  Appendices  and  Notes 
by  Pierre  Amedee  Pichot,  and  other  hands,  and  numerous  Illustra- 
tions, including  a  Photogravure  Portrait  of  the  Author.  Demy  8vo. 
1 2 /.  6d.  net. 

Daily  News. — "We  have  seldom  met  with  a  human  document  which  has  interested  us  so 
much.' 

THE  JOURNAL  OF  JOHN  MAYNE  DURING 

A  TOUR  ON  THE  CONTINENT  UPON  ITS  RE- 
OPENING AFTER  THE  FALL  OF  NAPOLEON,  1814. 

Edited  by  his  Grandson,  John  Mayne  Colles.  With  16 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches),      12s.  6d.  net. 

WOMEN    OF    THE    SECOND    EMPIRE. 

Chronicles  of  the  Court  of  Napoleon  III.  By  Frederic  Loliee. 
With  an  introduction  by  Richard  Whiteing  and  53  full-page 
Illustrations,  3  in  Photogravure.     Demy  8vo.      21/.  net. 

Standard. — "M.  Frederic  Loliee  has  written  a  remarkable  book,  vivid  and  pitiless  in  its 
description  of  the  intrigue  and  dare-devil  spirit  which  nourished  unchecked  at  the  French 
Court.  .  .  .  Mr.  Richard  Whiteing's  introduction  is  written  with  restraint  and  dignity.' 

LOUIS  NAPOLEON  AND  THE  GENESIS  OF 

THE  SECOND  EMPIRE.  By  F.  H.  Cheetham.  With 
Numerous  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5|  inches).    16s.  net. 

MEMOIRS     OF     MADEMOISELLE     DES 

ECHEROLLES.  Translated  from  the  French  by  Marie 
Clothilde  Balfour.  With  an  Introduction  by  G.  K.  Fortescue, 
Portraits,  etc.     5*.  net. 

Liverpool  Mercury. — ".  .  .  this  absorbing  book.  .  .  .  The  work  has  a  very  decided 
historical  value.  The  translation  is  excellent,  and  quite  notable  in  the  preservation  of 
idiom." 

JANE  AUSTEN'S  SAILOR  BROTHERS.    Being 

the  life  and  Adventures  of  Sir  Francis  Austen,  g.c.b.,  Admiral  of 
the  Fleet,  and  Rear-Admiral  Charles  Austen.  By  J.  H.  and  E.  C. 
Hubback.    With  numerous  Illustrations.    Demy  8vo.     1  is.  6d.  net. 

Morning  Post. — ".  .  .  May  be  welcomed  as  an  important  addition  to  Austeniana  .  .  .; 
it  is  besides  valuable  for  its  glimpses  of  life  in  the  Navy,  its  illustrations  of  the  feelings 
and  sentiments  of  naval  officers  during  the  period  that  preceded  and  that  which 
followed  the  great  battle  of  just  one  century  ago,  the  battle  which  won  so  much  but 
which  cost  us — Nelson." 


A    CATALOGUE    OF 


SOME    WOMEN    LOVING    AND    LUCKLESS. 

By  Teodor  de  Wyzewa.  Translated  from  the  French  by  C.  H. 
Jeffreson,  m.a.  With  Numerous  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo 
(9x5!  inches),      js.  6d.  net. 

POETRY   AND   PROGRESS    IN   RUSSIA.     By 

Rosa  Newmarch.  With  6  full-page  Portraits.  Demy  8vo. 
Js.  6d.  net. 

Standard.—"  Distinctly  a  book  that  should  be  read  .    .    .    pleasantly  written  and  well 
informed." 

GIOVANNI  BOCCACCIO  :  A  BIOGRAPHICAL 

STUDY.  By  Edward  Hutton.  With  a  Photogravure  Frontis- 
piece and  numerous  other  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo  (9  x  5J 
inches).      \6s.  net. 

THE  LIFE  OF  PETER  ILICH  TCHAIKOVSKY 

(1840-1893).  By  his  Brother,  Modeste  Tchaikovsky.  Edited 
and  abridged  from  the  Russian  and  German  Editions  by  Rosa 
Newmarch.  With  Numerous  Illustrations  and  Facsimiles  and  an 
Introduction  by  the  Editor.  Demy  8vo.  7/.  6d.  net.  Second 
edition. 

The  Times. — "  A  most  illuminating  commentary  on  Tchaikovsky's  music." 

World. — "  One  of  the  most  fascinating  self-revelations  by  an  artist  which  has  been  given  to 

the  world.  The  translation  is  excellent,  and  worth  reading  for  its  own  sake." 
Contemporary  Review. — "  The  book's  appeal  is,  of  course,  primarily  to  the  music-lover  ;  but 
there  is  so  much  of  human  and  literary  interest  in  it,  such  intimate  revelation  of  a 
singularly  interesting  personality,  that  many  who  have  never  come  under  the  spell  of 
the  Pathetic  Symphony  will  be  strongly  attracted  by  what  is  virtually  the  spiritual 
autobiography  of  its  composer.  High  praise  is  due  to  the  translator  and  editor  for  the 
literary  skill  with  which  she  has  prepared  the  English  version  of  this  fascinating  work  .  .  . 
There  have  been  few  collections  of  letters  published  within  recent  years  that  give  so 
vivid  a  portrait  of  the  writer  as  that  presented  to  us  in  these  pages." 

COKE    OF    NORFOLK    AND    HIS   FRIENDS: 

The  Life  of  Thomas  William  Coke,  First  Earl  of  Leicester  of 
the  second  creation,  containing  an  account  of  his  Ancestry, 
Surroundings,  Public  Services,  and  Private  Friendships,  and 
including  many  Unpublished  Letters  from  Noted  Men  of  his  day, 
English  and  American.  By  A.  M.  W.  Stirling.  With  20 
Photogravure  and  upwards  of  40  other  Illustrations  reproduced 
from  Contemporary  Portraits,  Prints,  etc.  Demy  8vo.  2  vols. 
32;.  net. 

The  Times.—'1  We  thank  Mr.  Stirling  for  one  of  the  most  interesting  memoirs  of  recent 

years." 
Daily  Telegraph.—"  A  very  remarkable  literary  performance.     Mrs.  Stirling  has  achieved 

a  resurrection.     She  has  fashioned  a  picture  of  a  dead  and  forgotten  past  and  brought 

before  our  eyes  with  the  vividness  of  breathing  existence  the  life  of  our  English  ancestors 

of  the  eighteenth  century." 
Pall  Mall  Gazette.—"  A  work  of  no  common  interest ;  in  fact,  a  work  which  may  almost  be 

called  unique." 
Evening  Standard. — "One  of  the  most  interesting  biographies  we  have  read  for  years." 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.      7 
THE   LIFE    OF   SIR    HALLIDAY   MACART- 

NEY,  K.C.M.G.,  Commander  of  Li  Hung  Chang's  trained 
force  in  the  Taeping  Rebellion,  founder  of  the  first  Chinese 
Arsenal,  Secretary  to  the  first  Chinese  Embassy  to  Europe, 
Secretary  and  Councillor  to  the  Chinese  Legation  in  London  for 
thirty  years.  By  Demetrius  C.  Boulger,  Author  of  the 
"  History  of  China,"  the  "  Life  of  Gordon,"  etc.  With  Illus- 
trations.    Demy  8vo.     Price  21/.  net. 

Daily  Graphic.—"  It  is  safe  to  say  that  few  readers  will  be  able  to  put  down  the  book  with- 
out feeling  the  better  for  having  read  it  .  .  .  not  only  full  of  personal  interest,  but 
tells  us  much  that  we  never  knew  before  on  some  not  unimportant  details." 

DEVONSHIRE  CHARACTERS  AND  STRANGE 

EVENTS.  By  S.  Baring-Gould,  m.a.,  Author  of  "  Yorkshire 
Oddities,"  etc.     With  58  Illustrations.     Demy   8vo.     21/.  net. 

Daily  News. — "A  fascinating  series  .  .  .  the  whole  book  is  rich  in  human  interest.  It  is 
by  personal  touches,  drawn  from  traditions  and  memories,  that  the  dead  men  surrounded 
by  the  curious  panoply  of  their  time,  are  made  to  live  again  in  Mr.  Baring-Gould's  pages." 

CORNISH     CHARACTERS    AND     STRANGE 

EVENTS.     By  S.  Baring-Gould.     Demy  8vo.     z\s.  net. 

THE    HEART    OF    GAMBETTA.      Translated 

from  the  French  of  Francis  Laur  by  Violette  Montagu. 
With  an  Introduction  by  John  Macdonald,  Portraits  and  other 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.     js.  6d.  net. 

Daily  Telegraph. — "  It  is  Gambetta  pouring  out  his  soul  to  Leonie  Leon,  the  strange, 
passionate,  masterful  demagogue,  who  wielded  the  most  persuasive  oratory  of  modern 
times,  acknowledging  his  idol,  his  inspiration,  his  Egeria." 

THE  MEMOIRS  OF  ANN,  LADY  FANSHAWE. 

Written  by  Lady  Fanshawe.  With  Extracts  from  the  Correspon- 
dence of  Sir  Richard  Fanshawe.  Edited  by  H.  C.  Fanshawe. 
With  38  Full-page  Illustrations,  including  four  in  Photogravure 
and  one  in  Colour.     Demy  8vo.      16s.  net. 

***  This  Edition  has  been  printed  direct  from  the  original  manuscript  in  the  possession 
of  the  Fanshawe  Family,  and  Mr.  H.  C.  Fanshawe  contributes  numerous  notes  which 
form  a  running  commentary  on  the  text.  Many  famous  pictures  are  reproduced,  includ- 
ing paintings  by  Velazquez  and  Van  Dyck. 


8 A    CATALOGUE    OF 

THE  LIFE  OF  JOAN   OF  ARC.      By  Anatole 

France.  A  Translation  by  Winifred  Stephens.  With  8  Illus- 
trations.    Demy  8vo  (9  x  5f  inches).      2  vols.      Price  25J.  net. 

THE    DAUGHTER    OF    LOUIS    XVI.     Marie- 

Therese-Charlotte  of  France,  Duchesse  D'Angouleme.  By.  G. 
Lenotre.  With  13  Full-page  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo.  Price 
io.f.  6d.  net. 

WITS,    BEAUX,    AND    BEAUTIES    OF    THE 

GEORGIAN  ERA.  By  John  Fyvie,  author  of  "  Some  Famous 
Women  of  Wit  and  Beauty,"  "  Comedy  Queens  of  the  Georgian 
Era,"  etc.  With  a  Photogravure  Portrait  and  numerous  other 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5f  inches),      izs.  6d.  net. 

LADIES    FAIR   AND    FRAIL.     Sketches   of  the 

Demi-monde  during  the  Eighteenth  Century.  By  Horace 
Bleackley,  author  of  "  The  Story  of  a  Beautiful  Duchess." 
With  1  Photogravure  and  1 5  other  Portraits  reproduced  from 
contemporary  sources.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches).     12s.  6d.  net. 

MADAME    DE    MAINTENON  :    Her   Life  and 

Times,  1635-17 19.  By  C.  C.  Dyson.  With  1  Photogravure 
Plate  and  16  other  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches). 
1  2s.  6d.  net. 

DR.    JOHNSON    AND    MRS.    THRALE.     By 

A.  M.  Broadley.  With  an  Introductory  Chapter  by  Thomas 
Seccombe.  With  24  Illustrations  from  rare  originals,  including 
a  reproduction  in  colours  of  the  Fellowes  Miniature  of  Mrs. 
Piozzi  by  Roche,  and  a  Photogravure  of  Harding's  sepia  drawing 
of  Dr.  Johnson.      Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches).      12s.  6d.  net. 

THE    DAYS    OF     THE     DIRECTOIRE.      By 

Alfred  Allinson,  M.A.  With  48  Full-page  Illustrations, 
including  many  illustrating  the  dress  of  the  time.  Demy  8vo 
(9  x  5f  inches).      16s.  net. 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.       9 
HUBERT  AND  JOHN  VAN  EYCK  :  Their  Life 

and  Work.  By  W.  H.  James  Weale.  With  41  Photogravure 
and  95  Black  and  White  Reproductions.     Royal  4to.    £5  $s.  net. 

Sir  Martin  Conway's  Note. 
Nearly  half  a  century  has  passed  since  Mr.  W.  H.  James  Weale,  then  resident  at 
Bruges,  began  that  long  series  of  patient  investigations  into  the  history  of  Netherlandish 
art  which  was  destined  to  earn  so  rich  a  harvest.  When  he  began  work  Memlinc  was 
still  called  Hemling,  and  was  fabled  to  have  arrived  at  Bruges  as  a  wounded  soldier. 
The  van  Eycks  were  little  more  than  legendary  heroes.  Roger  Van  der  Weyden  was  little 
more  than  a  name.  Most  of  the  other  great  Netherlandish  artists  were  either  wholly 
'orgotten  or  named  only  in  connection  with  paintings  with  which  they  had  nothing  to  do. 
Mr.  Weale  discovered  Gerard  David,  and  disentangled  his  principal  works  from  Mem- 
line's,  with  which  they  were  then  confused. 

VINCENZO  FOPPA  OF  BRESCIA,  Founder  of 

the  Lombard  School,  His  Life  and  Work.  By  Constance 
Jocelyn  Ffoulkes  and  Monsignor  Rodolfo  Majocchi,  d.d., 
Rector  of  the  Collegio  Borromeo,  Pavia.  Based  on  research  in  the 
Archives  of  Milan,  Pavia,  Brescia,  and  Genoa,  and  on  the  study 
of  all  his  known  works.  With  over  100  Illustrations,  many  in 
Photogravure,  and  100  Documents.    Royal  4to.    ^"3.  in.  6d.  net. 

***  No  complete  Life  of  Vincenzo  Foppa  has  ever  been  written :  an  omission  which 
seems  almost  inexplicable  in  these  days  of  over-production  in  the  matter  of  bio- 
graphies of  painters,  and  of  subjects  relating  to  the  art  of  Italy.  The  object  of  the 
authors  of  this  book  has  been  to  present  a  true  picture  of  the  master  s  life  based 
upon  the  testimony  of  records  in  Italian  archives.  The  authors  have  unearthed  a  large 
amount  of  new  material  relating  to  Foppa,  one  of  the  most  interesting  facts  brought  to 
light  being  that  he  lived  for  twenty-three  years  longer  than  was  formerly  supposed.  The 
illustrations  will  include  several  pictures  by  Foppa  hitherto  unknown  in  the  history  of  art. 

MEMOIRS    OF   THE    DUKES    OF    URBINO. 

Illustrating  the  Arms,  Art  and  Literature  of  Italy  from  1440  to 
1630.  By  James  Dennistoun  of  Dennistoun.  A  New  Edition 
edited  by  Edward  Hutton,  with  upwards  of  100  Illustrations. 
Demy  8vo.      3  vols.     42J.  net. 

***  For  many  years  this  great  book  has  been  out  <?,  print,  although  it  still  remains  the 
chief  authority  upon  the  Duchy  of  Urbino  from  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century. 
Mr.  Hutton  has  carefully  edited  the  whole  work,  leaving  the  text  substantially  the  same, 
but  adding  a  large  number  of  new  notes,  comments  and  references.  Wherever  possible 
the  reader  is  directed  to  original  sources.  Every  sort  of  work  has  been  laid  under 
contribution  to  illustrate  the  text,  and  bibliographies  ha7>e  been  supplied  on  many  subjects. 
Besides  these  notes  the  book  acquires  a  new  value  on  account  of  the  mass  of  illustrations 
which  it  now  contains,  thus  adding  a  pictorial  comment  to  an  historical  and  critical  one. 

THE    PHILOSOPHY    OF    LONG    LIFE.      By 

Jean  Finot.  A  Translation  by  Harry  Roberts.  Demy  8vo. 
(9x5!  inches),      js.  6d.  net. 

***  This  is  a  translation  of  a  book  which  has  attained  to  the  position  of  a  classic.  It 
has  already  been  translated  into  almost  every  language,  and  has,  in  France,  gone  into  four- 
teen editions  in  the  course  of  a  few  years.  The  book  is  an  exhaustive  one,  and  although 
based  on  science  and  philosophy  it  is  in  no  sense  abstruse  or  remote  from  general  interest. 
It  deals  with  life  as  embodied  not  only  in  man  and  in  the  animal  and  vegetable  worlds,  but 
in  all  that  great  world  of  (as  the  author  holds)  misnamed  "  inanimate  "  nature  as  well. 
For  M.  Finot  argues  that  all  things  have  life  and  consciousness,  and  that  a  solidarity 
exists  which  brings  together  all  beings  and  so-called  things.  He  sets  himself  to  zvork  to 
show  that  life,  in  its  philosophic  conception,  is  an  elemental  force,  and  durable  as  nature 
herself. 


io A    CATALOGUE    OF 

THE  DIARY  OF  A  LADY-IN-WAITING.     By 

Lady  Charlotte  Bury.  Being  the  Diary  Illustrative  of  the 
Times  of  George  the  Fourth.  Interspersed  with  original  Letters 
from  the  late  Queen  Caroline  and  from  various  other  distinguished 
persons.  New  edition.  Edited,  with  an  Introduction,  by  A. 
Francis  Steuart.  With  numerous  portraits.  Two  Vols. 
Demy  8vo.      21s.  net. 

THE  LAST  JOURNALS  OF   HORACE  WAL- 

POLE.  During  the  Reign  of  George  III  from  1771  to  1783. 
With  Notes  by  Dr.  Doran.  Edited  with  an  Introduction  by 
A.  Francis  Steuart,  and  containing  numerous  Portraits  (2  in 
Photogravure)  reproduced  from  contemporary  Pictures,  Engravings, 
etc.  2  vols.  Uniform  with  "The  Diary  of  a  Lady-in-Waiting." 
Demy  8vo  (9  x  5  J  inches).      25/.  net. 

JUNIPER  HALL :  Rendezvous  of  certain  illus- 
trious Personages  during  the  French  Revolution,  including  Alex- 
ander D'Arblay  and  Fanny  Burney.  Compiled  by  Constance 
Hill.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  Ellen  G.  Hill,  and  repro- 
ductions from  various  Contemporary  Portraits.    Crown  8 vo.    5z.net. 

JANE    AUSTEN  :   Her  Homes  and  Her  Friends. 

By  Constance  Hill.  Numerous  Illustrations  by  Ellen  G.  Hill, 
together  with  Reproductions  from  Old  Portraits,  etc.  Cr.  8vo.  5j-.net. 

THE    HOUSE    IN    ST.    MARTIN'S    STREET. 

Being  Chronicles  of  the  Burney  Family.  By  Constance  Hill, 
Author  of  "  Jane  Austen,  Her  Home,  and  Her  Friends,"  "  Juniper 
Hall,"  etc.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  Ellen  G.  Hill,  and 
reproductions  of  Contemporary  Portraits,  etc.    Demy  8vo.    21s.net. 

STORY  OF  THE  PRINCESS  DES  URSINS  IN 

SPAIN  (Camarera-Mayor).  By  Constance  Hill.  With  12 
Illustrations  and  a  Photogravure  Frontispiece.  New  Edition. 
Crown  8vo.      5/.  net. 

MARIA    EDGEWORTH    AND    HER    CIRCLE 

IN  THE  DAYS  OF  BONAPARTE  AND  BOURBON. 

By  Constance  Hill.  Author  of  "Jane  Austen  :  Her  Homes 
and  Her  Friends,"  "Juniper  Hall,"  "The  House  in  St.  Martin's 
Street,"  etc.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  Ellen  G.  Hill 
and  Reproductions  of  Contemporary  Portraits,  etc.  Demy  8vo 
(9  x  5 \  inches).      21s.  net. 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.     ii 
NEW    LETTERS    OF    THOMAS    CARLYLE. 

Edited  and  Annotated  by  Alexander  Carlyle,  with  Notes  and 
an  Introduction  and  numerous  Illustrations.  In  Two  Volumes. 
Demy  8vo.     25/.  net. 

Pall  Mall  Gazette.—"  To  the  portrait  of  the  man,  Thomas,  these  letters  do  really  add 

value ;  we  can  learn  to  respect  and  to  like  him  the  more  for  the  genuine  goodness  of  his 

personality." 
Literary  World. — "  It  is  then  Carlyle,  the  nobly  filial  son,  we  see  in  these  letters  ;  Carlyle, 

the  generous  and  affectionate  brother,   the  loyal  and  warm-hearted  friend,  .  .  .  and 

above  all,  Carlyle  as  the  tender  and  faithful  lover  of  his  wife." 
Daily  Telegraph. — "  The  letters  are  characteristic  enough  of  the  Carlyle  we  know  :  very 

picturesque  and  entertaining,  full  of  extravagant  emphasis,  written,  as  a  rule,  at  fever 

heat,  eloquently  rabid  and  emotional." 

NEW  LETTERS  AND  MEMORIALS  OF  JANE 

WELSH  CARLYLE.  A  Collection  of  hitherto  Unpublished 
Letters.  Annotated  by  Thomas  Carlyle,  and  Edited  by 
Alexander  Carlyle,  with  an  Introduction  by  Sir  James  Crichton 
Browne,  m.d.,  ll.d.,  f.r.s.,  numerous  Illustrations  drawn  in  Litho- 
graphy by  T.  R.  Way,  and  Photogravure  Portraits  from  hitherto 
unreproduced  Originals.    In  Two  Volumes.    Demy  8vo.    25/.  net. 

Westminster  Gazette. — "Few  letters  in  the  language  have  in  such  perfection  the  qualities 
which  good  letters  should  possess.  Frank,  gay,  brilliant,  indiscreet,  immensely  clever, 
whimsical,  and  audacious,  they  reveal  a  character  which,  with  whatever  alloy  of  human 
infirmity,  must  endear  itself  to  any  reader  of  understanding." 

World. — "Throws  a  deal  of  new  light  on  the  domestic  relations  of  the  Sage  of  Chelsea. 
They  also  contain  the  full  text  of  Mrs.  Carlyle's  fascinating  journal,  and  her  own 
'  humorous  and  quaintly  candid  '  narrative  of  her  first  love-affair." 

THE  LOVE  LETTERS  OF  THOMAS  CAR- 
LYLE AND  JANE  WELSH.  Edited  by  Alexander  Carlyle, 
Nephew  of  Thomas  Carlyle,  editor  of  "  New  Letters  and 
Memorials  of  Jane  Welsh  Carlyle,"  "  New  Letters  of  Thomas 
Carlyle,"  etc.  With  2  Portraits  in  colour  and  numerous  other 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo  (9  x  5 \  inches).      2  vols.      25^.  net. 

CARLYLE'S  FIRST  LOVE.     Margaret  Gordon— 

Lady  Bannerman.  An  account  of  her  Life,  Ancestry  and 
Homes  ;  her  Family  and  Friends.  By  R.  C.  Archibald.  With 
20  Portraits  and  Illustrations,  including  a  Frontispiece  in  Colour. 
Demy  8vo  (9  x  5!  inches),      ioj.  6d.  net. 

EMILE    ZOLA  :    Novelist    and    Reformer.      An 

Account  of  his  Life,  Work,  and  Influence.  By  E.  A.  Vizetelly. 
With  numerous  Illustrations,  Portraits,  etc.     Demy  8vo.     21;.  net. 

Morning  Post. — "Mr.  Ernest  Vizetelly  has  given  .  .  .  a  very  true  insight  into  the  aims, 

character,  and  life  of  the  novelist." 
Athenceum. — ".  .  .  Exhaustive  and  interesting." 
M.A.P. — ".  .  .  will  stand  as  the  classic  biography  of  Zola.' 


12  A    CATALOGUE    OF 


MEMOIRS  OF  THE  MARTYR  KING  :  being  a 

detailed  record  of  the  last  two  years  of  the  Reign  of  His  Most 
Sacred  Majesty  King  Charles  the  First,  1 646-1 648-9.  Com- 
piled by  Allan  Fea.  With  upwards  of  100  Photogravure 
Portraits  and  other  Illustrations,  including  relics.  Royal  4to. 
1 05/.  net. 

Mr.  M.  H.  Spielmann  in  The  Academy. — "The  volume  is  a  triumph  for  the  printer  and 

publisher,  and  a  solid  contribution  to  Carolinian  literature." 
Pall  Mall  Gazette. — "  The  present  sumptuous  volume,  a  storehouse  of  eloquent  associations 
.  .  comes  as  near  to  outward  perfection  as  anything  we  could  desire." 

MEMOIRS  OF  A  VANISHED  GENERATION 

1813-1855.  Edited  by  Mrs.  Warrenne  Blake.  With  numerous 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.      16s.  net. 

***  This  -work  is  compiled  from  diaries  and  letters  dating  jrom  the  time  of  the  Regency 
to  the  middle  of  the  nineteenth  century.  The  value  of  the  work  lies  in  its  natural  un- 
embellished  picture  of  the  life  of  a  cultured  and  well-born  family  in  a  foreign  environment 
at  a  period  so  close  to  our  own  that  it  is  far  less  Jamiliar  than  periods  much  more  remote. 
There  is  an  atmosphere  of  Jane  A  listen  s  novels  about  the  lives  of  Admiral  Knox  and  his 
family,  and  a  large  number  of  well-known  contemporaries  are  introduced  into  Mrs.  Blake's 
■bages. 

CESAR  FRANCK  :  A  Study.     Translated  from  the 

French  of  Vincent  d'Indy,  with  an  Introduction  by  Rosa  New- 
march.      Demy  8vo.      Js.  6d.  net. 

%*  There  is  no  purer  influence  in  modern  music  than  that  of  Cesar  Franck,  for  many 
"•ears  ignored  in  every  capacity  save  that  of  organist  ofSainte-Clotilde,  in  Paris,  but  nozv 
recognised  as  the  legitimate  successor  of  Bach  and  Beethoven.  His  inspiration  "  rooted  in 
love  and  faith  "  has  contributed  in  a  remarkable  degree  to  the  regeneration  of  the  musical 
art  in  France  and  elsewhere.  The  new  famous  "  Schola  Cantorum,"  founded  in  Paris  in 
1896,  by  A.  Guilmant,  Charles  Bordes  and  Vincent  d'Indy,  is  the  direct  outcome  of  his 
influence.  Among  the  artists  who  were  in  some  sort  his  disciples  were  Paul  Dukas, 
Chabrier,  Gabriel  Fattrc  and  the  great  violinist  Ysiiye.  His  pupils  include  such  gifted 
composers  as  Benott,  Augusta  Holmes,  Chausson,  Ropartz,  and  d'  Indy,  This  book, 
written  "with  the  devotion  of  a  disciple  and  the  authority  of  a  master,  leaves  us  with 
a  vivid  and  touching  impression  of  t lie  saint-like  composer  or  "  The  Beatitudes." 

FRENCH   NOVELISTS  OF  TO-DAY  :   Maurice 

Barres,  Rene  Bazin,  Paul  Bourget,  Pierre  de  Coulevain,  Anatole 
France,  Pierre  Loti,  Marcel  Prevost,  and  Edouard  Rod.  Bio- 
graphical, Descriptive,  and  Critical.  By  Winifred  Stephens. 
With  Portraits  and  Bibliographies.     Crown  8vo.      5/.  net. 

***  The  ivriter,  who  has  lived  much  in  France,  is  thoroughly  acquainted  with  French 
life  and  with  the  principal  currents  of  French  thought.  The  book  is  intended  to  be  a 
guide  to  English  readers  desirous  to  keep  in  touch  with  the  best  present-day  French 
fiction.  Special  attention  is  given  to  the  ecclesiastical,  social,  and  intellectual  problems 
of  contemporary  France  and  their  influence  upon  the  works  of  French  novelists  of  to-day. 

THE    KING'S    GENERAL    IN     THE     WEST, 

being  the  Life  of  Sir  Richard  Granville,  Baronet  (1 600-1 659). 
By  Roger  Granville,  M.A.,  Sub-Dean  of  Exeter  Cathedral. 
With  Illustrations.      Demy  8vo.      10/.  6d.  net. 

Westminster  Gazette.— ■"  A  distinctly  interesting  work;  it  will  be  highly  appreciated  by 
historical  students  as  well  as  by  ordinary  readers." 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.     13 
THE  SOUL  OF  A  TURK.     By  Mrs.  de  Bunsen. 

With  8  Full-page  Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.      10s.  6d.  net. 

***  We  hear  of Moslem  "fanaticism  "  and  Christian  "superstition"  but  it  is  not  easy 
to  find  a  book  which  goes  to  the  heart  of  the  -matter.  "  The  Soul  of  a  Turk"  is  the 
outcome  of  several  journeys  in  Asiatic  and  European  Turkey,  notably  one  through  the 
Armenian  provinces,  down  the  Tigris  on  a  raft  to  Baghdad  and  across  the  Syrian  Desert 
to  Damascus.  Mrs.  de  Bunsen  7nade  a  special  study  of  the  various  forms  of  religion 
existing  in  those  countries.  Here,  side  by  side  with  the  formal  cere?nonial  of  the  village 
mosque  and  the  Christian  Church,  is  the  resort  to  Magic  and  Mystery. 

THE    LIFE    AND    LETTERS    OF    ROBERT 

Stephen  Hawker,  sometime  Vicar  of  Morwenstow  in  Cornwall. 
By  C.  E.  Byles.  With  numerous  Illustrations  by  J.  Ley 
Pethybridge   and  others.     Demy   8vo.      js.   6d.   net. 

Daily  Telegraph. — "  ...  As  soon  as  the  volume  is  opened  one  finds  oneself  in  the  presence 
of  a  real  original,  a  man  of  ability,  genius  and  eccentricity,  of  whom  one  cannot  know 
too  much  .  .  .  No  one  will  read  this  fascinating  and  charmingly  produced  book  without 
thanks  to  Mr.  Byles  and  a  desire  to  visit— or  revisit— Morwenstow." 

THE  LIFE  OF  WILLIAM  BLAKE.  By  Alexander 

Gilchrist.  Edited  with  an  Introduction  by  W.Graham  Robertson. 
Numerous  Reproductions  from  Blake's  most  characteristic  and 
remarkable  designs.     Demy  8vo.      ios.6d.net.     New  Edition. 

Birmingham  Post. — "Nothing  seems  at  all  likely  ever  to  supplant  the  Gilchrist  biography. 
Mr.  Swinburne  praised  it  magnificently  in  his  own  eloquent  essay  on  Blake,  and  there 
should  be  no  need  now  to  point  out  its  entire  sanity,  understanding  keenness  of  critical 
insight,  and  masterly  literary  style.  Dealing  with  one  of  the  most  difficult  of  subjects, 
it  ranks  among  the  finest  things  of  its  kind  that  we  possess." 

GEORGE    MEREDITH  :     Some    Characteristics. 

By  Richard  Le  Gallienne.  With  a  Bibliography  (much  en- 
larged) by  John  Lane.  Portrait,  etc.  Crown  8vo.  5/.  net.  Fifth 
Edition.     Revised. 

Punch. — "All  Meredithians  must  possess  'George  Meredith;  Some  Characteristics,'  by 
Richard  Le  Gallienne.  This  book  is  a  complete  and  excellent  guide  to  the  novelist  and 
the  novels,  a  sort  of  Meredithian  Bradshaw,  with  pictures  of  the  traffic  superintendent 
and  the  head  office  at  Boxhill.  Even  Philistines  may  be  won  over  by  the  blandishments 
of  Mr.  Le  Gallienne." 

LIFE  OF  LORD  CHESTERFIELD.    An  account 

of  the  Ancestry,  Personal  Character,  and  Public  Services  of  the 
Fourth  Earl  of  Chesterfield.  By  W.  H.  Craig,  M.A.  Numerous 
Illustrations.     Demy  8vo.      1  zs.  6d.  net. 

Times. — "  It  is  the  chief  point  of  Mr.  Craig's  book  to  show  the  sterling  qualities  which 
Chesterfield  was  at  too  much  pains  in  concealing,  to  reject  the  perishable  trivialities  of 
his  character,  and  to  exhibit  him  as  a  philosophic  statesman,  not  inferior  to  any  of  his 
contemporaries,  except  Walpole  at  one  end  of  his  life,  and  Chatham  at  the  other." 


14 A    CATALOGUE    OF 

A  QUEEN  OF  INDISCRETIONS.     The  Tragedy 

of  Caroline  of  Brunswick,  Queen  of  England.  From  the  Italian 
of  G.  P.  Clerici.  Translated  by  Frederic  Chapman.  With 
numerous  Illustrations  reproduced  from  contemporary  Portraits  and 
Prints.     Demy  8vo.      zis.  net. 

The  Daily  Telegraph. — "It  could  scarcely  be  done  more  thoroughly  or,  on  the  whole,  in 
better  taste  than  is  here  displayed  by  Professor  Clerici.  Mr.  Frederic  Chapman  himself 
contributes  an  uncommonly  interesting  and  well-informed  introduction." 

LETTERS    AND    JOURNALS    OF    SAMUEL 

GRIDLEY  HOWE.  Edited  by  his  Daughter  Laura  E. 
Richards.  With  Notes  and  a  Preface  by  F.  B.  Sanborn,  an 
Introduction  by  Mrs.  John  Lane,  and  a  Portrait.  Demy  8vo 
(9x5!  inches).      16s.  net. 

Outlook. — "This  deeply  interesting  record  of  experience.  The  volume  is  worthily  produced 
and  contains  a  striking  portrait  of  Howe." 

GRIEG   AND    HIS    MUSIC.     By  H.  T.   Finck, 

Author  of  "  Wagner  and  his  Works,"  etc.  With  Illustrations. 
Crown  8vo.      Js.  6d.  net. 

EDWARD  A.  MACDOWELL  :  a  Biography.     By 

Lawrence  Gilman,  Author  of  "  Phases  of  Modern  Music," 
"Straus's  'Salome,'"  "The  Music  of  To-morrow  and  Other 
Studies,"  "  Edward  Macdowell,"  etc.  Profusely  illustrated. 
Crown  8vo.      5/.  net. 

THE    LIFE    OF    ST.  MARY    MAGDALEN. 

Translated  from  the  Italian  of  an  Unknown  Fourteenth-Century 
Writer  by  Valentina  Hawtrey.  With  an  Introductory  Note  by 
Vernon  Lee,  and  14  Full-page  Reproductions  from  the  Old  Masters. 
Crown  8vo.      5/.  net. 

Daily  News. — "  Miss  Valentina  Hawtrey  has  given  a  most  excellent  English  version  of  this 
pleasant  work." 

MEN  AND  LETTERS.     By  Herbert  Paul,  m.p. 

Fourth  Edition.     Crown  8vo.      5/.  net. 

Daily  News.— "  Mr.  Herbert  Paul  has  done  scholars  and  the  reading  world  in  genera  a  high 
service  in  publishing  this  collection  of  his  essays." 

ROBERT    BROWNING:    Essays    and    Thoughts. 

By  J.  T.  Nettleship.  With  Portrait.  Crown  8vo.  5/.  6d.  net. 
(Third  Edition.) 


MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,   Etc.     15 
WILLIAM    MAKEPEACE    THACKERAY.     A 

Biography  by  Lewis  Melville.  With  2  Photogravures  and 
numerous  other  Illustrations.  Demy  8vo  (9  x  5f  inches). 
25s.  net. 

***  In  compiling  this  biography  of  Thackeray  Mr.  Lewis  Melville,  who  is  admittedly 
the  authority  on  the  subject,  has  been  assisted  by  numerous  Thackeray  experts.  Mr. 
Melville's  name  has  long  been  associated  with  Thackeray,  not  only  as  founder  of  the 
Titmarsh  Club,  but  also  as  the  author  of"  The  Thackeray  County  "  and  the  editor  of  the 
standard  edition  of  Thackeray's  works  and  "  Thackeray's  Stray  Papers."  For  many 
vears  Mr.  Melville  has  devoted  himself  to  the  collection  of  material  relating  to  the  life  and 
work  of  his  subject.  He  has  had  access  to  many  new  letters,  and  much  information  has 
come  to  hand  since  the  publication  of  "  The  Ltfe  of  Thackeray."  Now  that  everything 
about  the  novelist  is  known,  it  seems  that  an  appropriate  moment  has  arrived  for  a  nezu 
biography.  Mr.  Melville  has  also  compiled  a  bibliography  of  Thackeray  that  runs  to 
■upwards  1.300  items,  by  many  hundreds  more  than  contained  in  any  hitherto  issued. 
This  section  will  be  invaluable  to  the  collector.  Thackeray  s  speeches,  including  several 
never  before  republished,  have  also  been  collected.  There  is  a  list  of  portraits  of  the 
novelist,  and  a  separate  index  to  the  Bibliography. 

A   LATER    PEPYS.     The   Correspondence  of  Sir 

William  Weller  Pepys,  Bart.,  Master  in  Chancery,  175 8-182 5, 
with  Mrs.  Chapone,  Mrs.  Hartley,  Mrs.  Montague,  Hannah  More, 
William  Franks,  Sir  James  Macdonald,  Major  Rennell,  Sir 
Nathaniel  Wraxall,  and  others.  Edited,  with  an  Introduction  and 
Notes,  by  Alice  C.  C.  Gaussen.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 
Demy  8vo.     In  Two  Volumes.      32;.  net. 

Douglas  Sladen  in  the  Queen. — "This  is  indisputably  a  most  valuable  contribution  to  the 
literature  of  the  eighteenth  century.  It  is  a  veritable  storehouse  of  society  gossip,  the 
art  criticism,  and  the  mots  of  famous  people." 

ROBERT  LOUIS  STEVENSON,  AN  ELEGY; 
AND   OTHER   POEMS,   MAINLY   PERSONAL.     By 

Richard  Le  Gallienne.     Crown  8vo.     4/.  6d.  net. 

Glohe. — "The  opening  Elegy  on  R.  L.  Stevenson  includes  some  tender  and  touching 
passages,  and  has  throughout  the  merits  of  sincerity  and  clearness." 

RUDYARD  KIPLING  :  a  Criticism.     By  Richard 

Le  Gallienne.  With  a  Bibliography  by  John  Lane.  Crown 
8vo.     3/.  6d.  net. 

Scotsman — "  It  shows  a  keen  insight  into  the  essential  qualities  of  literature,  and  analyses 
Mr.  Kipling's  product  with  the  skill  of  a  craftsman  .  .  .  the  positive  and  outstanding 
merits  of  Mr.  Kipling's  contribution  to  the  literature  of  his  time  are  marshalled  by  his 
critic  with  quite  uncommon  skill." 

APOLOGIA   DIFFIDENTIS.       By  W.   Compton 

Leith.     Demy  8vo.      js.  6d.  net. 

***  The  book,  which  is  largely  autobiographical,  describes  the  effect  of  diffidence  upon 
an  individual  life,  and  contains,  with  a  consideration  of  the  nature  of  shyness,  a  plea  for 
a  kindlier  judgment  of  the  inveterate  case. 

Daily  Mail.—"  Mr.  Leith  has  written  a  very  beautiful  book,  and  perhaps  the  publisher's 
claim  that  this  will  be  a  new  classic  is  not  too  bold." 


16    MEMOIRS,   BIOGRAPHIES,  Etc. 


THE  TRUE   STORY  OF   MY  LIFE  :  an  Auto- 

biography  by  Alice  M.  Diehl,  Novelist,  Writer,  and  Musician. 
Demy  8vo.      ios.  6d.  net. 

THE   LIFE   OF  W.   J.   FOX,  Public  Teacher  and 

Social  Reformer,  1 786-1 864.  By  the  late  Richard  Garnett, 
C.B.,  LL.D.,  concluded  by  Edward  Garnett.  Demy  8vo. 
(9  x  5 finches.)      16/.  net. 

***  W.  J.  Fox  was  a  prominent  figure  in  public  life  from  1820  to  i860.  From  a 
weaver's  boy  he  became  M.P.  for  Oldham  (1847-/662),  and  he  will  always  be  remembered 
for  his  association  with  South  Place  Chapel,  -where  his  Radical  opinions  and  fame  as  a 
preacher  and  popular  orator  brought  him  in  contact  with  an  advanced  circle  of  thoughtful 
people.  He  was  the  discoverer  of  the  youthful  Robert  Browning  and  Harriet  Martineau, 
and  the  friend  of  J.  S.  Mill,  Home,  John  Forster,  Macready,  etc.  As  an  Anti-Corn 
Law  orator,  he  swayed,  by  the  power  of  his  eloquence,  enthusiastic  audiences.  As  a 
politician,  he  was  the  unswerving  champion  of  social  reform  and  the  cause  of  oppressed 
nationalities,  his  most  celebrated  speech  being  in  support  of  his  Bill  for  National  Educa- 
tion, /8jo,  a  Bill  which  anticipated  many  of  the  features  of  the  Education  Bill  of  our 
own  time.  He  died  in  1S63.  The  present  Life  has  been  compiled  from  manuscript 
material  entrusted  to  Dr.  Garnett  by  Mrs.  Bride  11  Fox. 

OTIA  :  Essays.     By  Armine  Thomas  Kent.     Crown 

8vo.      5/.  net. 

TERRORS  OF  THE  LAW  :    being  the  Portraits 

of  Three  Lawyers — the  original  Weir  of  Hermiston,  "  Bloody 
Jeffreys,"  and  "  Bluidy  Advocate  Mackenzie."  By  Francis 
Watt.    With  3  Photogravure  Portraits.     Fcap.  8vo.     \s.  6d.  net. 

The  Literary  World. — "The  book  is  altogether  entertaining;  it  is  brisk,  lively,  and 
effective.  Mr.  Watt  has  already,  in  his  two  series  of  'The  Law's  Lumber  Room,' 
established  his  place  as  an  essayist  in  legal  lore,  and  the  present  book  will  increase  his 
reputation." 

CHAMPIONS  OF  THE  FLEET.     Captains  and 

Men-of-War  in  the  Days  that  Helped  to  make  the  Empire.  By 
Edward  Fraser.  With  16  Full-page  Illustrations.  Crown  8vo. 
6s. 

THE  LONDONS  OF  THE  BRITISH  FLEET  : 

The  Story  of  Ships  bearing  the  name  of  Old  Renown  in  Naval 
Annals.  By  Edward  Fraser.  With  8  Illustrations  in  colours, 
and  20  in  black  and  white.      Crown  8vo.     6s. 

JOHN   LANE,    THE    BODLEY    HEAD,   VIGO    STREET,    LONDON,   W. 


PLEASE  DO  NOT  REMOVE 
CARDS  OR  SLIPS  FROM  THIS  POCKET 

UNIVERSITY  OF  TORONTO  LIBRARY 


DA 


Calvert,  Frances  (Pery) 
522       An  Irish  beauty  of  the 
C15A4   regency 
1911 


'••'■■■ 


ma 


WB&m 

xhhwihu 


■HP 

M  " 


Hi  H 


J 


<-W* 


1 1  ■ 


■ 

I  1 


181 


I 


.ll 


I 


■ 


I 

■ 


