.ij^jn;»-r— 



<:,. 



-•■'ftllHS.- 



-¥ 






/"• 



1*^-- 



■*<• - IW ,---"'«*^' . 



■■^ 




'V 





6niBir*-*!5R.'-^-»',ri2i»- 



25. (Viaggi in Italia-Regno di Napoli-Fig. '800) - CASTELLAN Antoine Laurent 
Letters on Italy. London, 1820. 4°, cart.; pp. 108 con 6 taw. di vedute (una 
doppia) inc. f.t. '81 . v,'v-c. - 

GU argomenti di queste lettere ugiiardano la descrizione di citta e centri 
della Puglia (Brindisi, Giovenazzo, Monopoli, Barletta ecc), la visita at 
monastero di Montevergine, il soggiorno napoletano e le gite a Pozzuoh, 
Posillipo, Campi Flegrei ecc. con annotazioni sid carattere dei ttapoletani, 
la descrizione delle antichita di Pompei ed infine il soggiorno romano e 
fiorentino con osservazioni sul Carnevale e sidle bellezze artistiche delle 
dne citta. Raro. 



LETTERS 



ON 



lltalg; 



ILLUSTRATED BY ENGRAVINGS. 



BY 

A. L. CASTELLAN, 

HONORARY MEMBER OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF 
FINE ARTS AT PARIS. 



Hontjon: 

PRINTED FOR SIR RICHARD PHILLIPS AND CO. 

Bride Court, Bridge Street. 

1820 



^; 



1 



PRINTED BY BENJAMIN BENSLEY, 
Bolt Court, Fleet Street. 



ADVERTISEMENT. 

M. CASTELLAN is well known to the Foreign Literary World hy his 
" Lettres siir la Morie, V Hellespont, at Constantinople ;" to which his 
Letters on Italy form a sequel. The Visit to Italy, of which he gives an 
account in the latter work, was made at the conclusion of the last century. 

These Letters are valuable, as they tend to show this delightful country 
in a new point of view. M. CASTELLAN traversed Italy with the eye 
and enthusiasm of an Artist, though not without bestowing due atteiition on 
the remains of antiquity and tJpe interesting recollections with which the seat of 
Roman greatness abounds. Equally attached to the beauties both of Nature 
and Art, M. CASTELLAN has given a lively and spirited sketch of a 
country which is favoured beyond all ethers in its delightful scenery, and in 
its rich treasury of Works of Art. 



T 



.u.t 



gsvCsffa 

'if 919 w 

- doidv/ 

*vfii{ 'blito'j 



TRAVELS IN ITALY, 



LETTER I. 



Passage from Corfu to Italy — Arrival at Otranto — Earthquakes 
in the kingdom of Naples — Temple of Minerva — Appearance 
of Otranto — Passage to Brindisi — Visit to a Villa — The Con- 
vents of Brindisi — State of the Town — Dresses of the Italians* 

M. HE passage from Corfu to Italy does not in general occupy 
more than four-and-tM'cnty hours : we were eight hours ere 
Ave passed the eastern side of the island, visiting, much against 
our will, eveiy little port. During the night the mountains of 
Epirus presented a singular and imposing appearance : a thick 
red-coloured smoke rolled round their sides, or surrounded 
their summits with a fiery girdle. The wind added strength 
to the flames and forced them into long sinuous streams, not 
imlike torrents of lava, which seemed to blaze along the foot 
of the mountains, displaying their shape by the reflexion of 
their blaze. In short, the scene had all the appearance of a 
vast volcanic eruption ; it was, however, nothing more than 
the burning of the innumerable spic) shrubs which covered 
the face of the country ; an operation which the husbandmen 
find very useful in supplying fi'esh shoots of herbage, the suc- 
ceeding spring, for their flocks. 

At length, after tacking frequently, and having approached 
very near the shores of Epirus, we were borne back on the 
Isle of Fano, or the Scogli, which are indeed nothing but 
shelves of rocks. A few half-starved wretches exist here, who 
were unable to offer us provisions of any kind, not even water. 
Our impatience increased when we beheld the Venetian galleys, 
which swept through the channel with great rapidity, in every 
part of it, by means of their powerful tiers of oars, and which 
could have conveyed us instantaneously to our destination, \i 

Voyage? and Travels, No. 5, Vol, III,. B 



2 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

the captains could have been prevailed on to lend us their 
assistance. A real misfortune was now added to our per- 
plexity; calculating upon the usual length of passage, the 
provisions, which we had not spared, ^vere nearly all consumed, 
and it was found necessary to limit us to a small ration. To 
add to our difficulties the excessive heat of the weather had 
corrupted our store of M^ater. This disagreeable situation was 
becoming very alarming, when most fortunately a favourable 
breeze sprung up Avhich bore us through the channel, and our 
captain, like a new Achates, called out *' Italy, Italy!" and 
pointed out in the horizon an elevated strip of land. " Italy !" 
this word echoed through our hearts, which beat as joyfully as 
those of the companions of iEneas, and with a kind of rapture 
which we could not help feeling — a sentiment which every 
artist would have felt in our situation, and which did not sur- 
prise even our Greek sailors. 

The coast of the ancient Apulia is exactly such as it is described 
by Virgil, and it forms a striking opposition to the deep decli- 
vities of the other shore. We now caught sight of the turrets 
of Otranto, and with every sail stretched we ran to anchor, 
rejoicing that we had arrived at the end of om* difficulties, 
when a cannon-shot, hissing above our heads, pierced one of 
our sails, and we perceived, on the other side of the roads, a 
galley which made a signal for us to come to, and send on board 
her. It would not have been wise to have refused such a 
pressing invitation, and we did not wait to be asked a second 
time. Our sailors let go the sail in terror, and the captain im- 
mediately entered the boat; my friend accompanied him, and 
tliey rowed away while we put the ship about to await the 
result of this ill-auguring circumstance. When they arrived 
on board the galley, the captain, who was incensed at our dis- 
regard of his signals, threatened to sink our little vessel. He 
had imagined it belonged to some fishernicn who would gladly 
ofter him the first-fruits of their labour, but when he recog- 
nised a French officer who could complain of this violent pro- 
ceeding, he endeavoured to treat the matter as a joke, boasting 
of his skill in firing so as to attract our attention, and procure 
himself the pleasure of our acquaintance. My companion 
told him that his pleasantry was rathe'' rough, and that we 
should have preferred a little less address and more circumspec- 
tion. The return of our embassy procured us the liberty of 
comingto anchor, which we did at the entrance of the roads near 
a mass of rocks, on the summit of which a small church is built. 

Otranto has a very picturesque appearance : the view on 
the right is terminated by the extreme j)oint of the rocks ; in 
front lies a flat shore, which serves as a port for the un- 



City of Otranto. 3 

shipping of goods, and a steep causeway, terminated by two 
columns, and leading to the gate of the city. This shore is 
used as a promenade by the inhabitants. In the back-ground 
a few elevated spots of ground are covered with verdure. 

The city extends on the left, and forms at the extremity a 
rounded promontory. It is built on a platform of rocks which 
fortify the shore, and afford a protection against the force of the 
sea and the attacks of artillery. The citadel, which was built by 
Alphonso of Arragon, and the ])lan of which is difficult to be 
comprehended, is commanded by a square tower which sup- 
ports a belfry on the top, to alarm all the coast when the 
Turks endeavour to land. The remembrance of the horrors 
suffered during the siege in 1480 from the Mussulmans who 
mastered the city and threatened the surrounding country, still 
keeps the inhabitants in a state of watchful alarm. 

Earthquakes are frequent in the kingdom of Naples. In 
1450 one was felt which spread terror amongst all the in- 
habitants, and for many months they lived in fear of being 
buried under the ruins of their habitations. The province of 
Otranto suffered extremely ; and the Terra di lavoro, Abruzzo, 
and Puglia were covered with iiiins. Some castles were 
swallowed up without leaving the slightest trace behind themj 
and 30,000 persons are computed to have perished. At length, 
in order to appease the divine anger, king Alphonso commanded 
a procession to Brindisi, to the ancient church of Santa Maria di 
Leuca, situated on the promontory of Otranto. On this spot 
formerly stood a temple, which is said to have been that of 
Minerva, seen by i'Eneas on his first arrival in Italy. 

We may here observe, that the temples of Minerva have 
resisted the attacks of time better than those of any other 
divinity — probably because this goddess, who was the patroness 
of wisdom, found more favour in the eyes of the Christians 
than any other heathen deity. Whatever be the reason there 
certainly remain many of her temples which have been con- 
verted into churches. We may mention that at Athens, which 
would still have remained entire but for an unfortunate ac- 
cident; at Rome, the temple of Minerva Medica, the church 
of Santa Maria della Minerva, &c. 

We may also remark, that with very little alteration the 
statues of this goddess might have been rendered subservient 
to the Christian worship, and that many of the ancient 
Madonnas resemble in attitude and drapery the images of 
Minerva ; for it was nearly the fifteenth century before the 
Virgin was represented holding the infant Jesus, 

The houses of Otranto rise above the line of ruins which 
surround the crumbling walls, and croAvn them in an agreeable 



4 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

and picturesque manner. In the gimplicity of their form, in 
their flat roofs, in the terraces by Avhich they are termiiiate(i, 
and in the small windows so distant from one another, we re- 
cognized the style which painters attribute to Italian buildings, 
and which differ exceedingly from that of the edifices of other 
countries. 

Diversity of climate ought always to govern the mode of 
building. Here the absence of snow renders useless the pin- 
nacles which disfigure our houses. The necessity of breathing 
the fresh air in the night, and the custom of sometimes sleep- 
ing in the open air, are the causes of their terraces and verantlas j 
while their windows, being few and small, admit less heat into 
the interior of their habitations. The Italians, however, have 
nothing further to do than to pursue the taste of their ances- 
tors; and vre may see they still inherit their genius by the 
character of grandeur, simplicity, and beauty, \vhich dis- 
tinguishes all their buildings, — from the simplest cottage to 
palaces and temples. 

In consequence of the necessity of performing quarantine 
we were not allowed time to examine the interior of Otranto ; 
we were therefore not able to judge of its riches and its popu- 
lation, which is said to amount to 3000 souls. The quay was 
covered with merchandizes, and the number of ships which 
frequented the port made us conclude that commerce was in a 
flourishing state : the city also appeared busy and active. In 
the evening we perceived on the beach some equipages more 
rich than elegant, and some gentlemen on horseback well 
mounted. The pretty peasant girls wore bodices of taffeta 
and skirts of white muslin, and their heads were covered with 
straw hats or silk handkerchiefs. Until the night was far ad- 
vanced the air resounded with strains of music, and with 
melodious voices mingling with the sound of all kinds of 
instniments. '"" 

Our passage from Otranto to Brindisi, where we were to 
finish the period of our quarantine, ^vas very short. Our 
hearts seemed to expand with the thought that we should 
shortly be no longer exposed to the caprice of the winds and 
waves, and that after a period of captivity, too long for our 
wishes, we should be permitted to traverse a land wliich we 
almost considered as our own country. '^^* 

The city of Brindisi is built upon a point of land, the angle 
of which juts into the port. A lofty colunni of ancient white 
marble rises on this sjwt, surmounted M'ith a rich composite 
capital; and near it lie the pedestal and base of a similar column 
which they told us had been transported to Lecca, the chief 
tQwn of the province so called, where it adorns the principal 



City of BrindisL 5 

square, and supports the statue of the tutelary saint. The 
other edifices of Brindisi are constructed of brick and stone; 
churches covered with roofs of flat tiles, or with depressed 
domes, with their square and arcaded belfrys supported by little 
columns, gave us a good idea of the Lombard architecture which 
preceded the revived style, and which displayed a character 
very superior to that of the crowd of buildings of later ages 
where the beauty of the edifice is lost in the excess of useless 
ornament, and in the contortion of every architectural part. 
Here and there palm trees rise, intermingled with a few 
cypress and other trees, which form a fine contrast with the 
buildings, and render their outline very picturesque. 

At length the period of our quarantine expired. Impatient 
to enjoy the pleasure of once more walking at liberty, and to 
satisfy om* curiosity, we travers^ed the city in every direction. 
After having been so long shut up in our little vessel without 
the least exercise, the height of every thing we saw, and the 
length of the streets appeared prodigious to us ; every new 
object drew from us an exclamation of joy or of surprise, and 
the view of the country above all produced the most delicious 
sensations. 

This taste was particularly gratified by a visit to a villa, 
which possessed great attractions for the artist and the an- 
tiquarian. Although the buildings were sinking into niin, and 
the gardens were abandoned to the dominion of Nature, who 
seemed to have asserted over them all her rights, we Avere no 
less surprised than enchanted by recognising in this situation 
all the characteristic marks of an ancient villa. These it has 
preserved by reason of its never having ceased for ages 
together to belong to contented families, who, averse to change, 
thought it was sufficient if they enjoyed the pleasures of their 
ancestors, and who had not therefore been tempted to make 
any change in the order and ancient disposition of the place. 

It is not built on a veiy regular plan, and the builder has 
confined himself to the advantages which the inequality of the 
ground afforded, which is supported in some places by terraces, 
under which there are vaulted halls, ornamented with stuccoes 
and paintings, and which served the ancient proprietors, as 
they may still serve the present, as a refuge during the intense 
heat. 

The part which appeared best preserved was a large gallery 
(ambulacrum), shadowed by a very ancient vine, if one may- 
judge from the size of the branches, which twines itself around 
the marble columns. Most of the capitals bear marks of an- 
tiquity; their form is very simple: it consists of a square 
basket, on the planes of which are carved in relief the symbols 



6 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

of agriculture, or animals, such as sheep, goats, &c. A few of 
these capitals, which exhibit marks of repair, clearly of modern 
date, enable us to judge more accurately of the antiquity of 
the others. 

Less curious to examine the city of Brindisi than to dis- 
tinguish amidst modern structures, or those of the middle age, 
traces of the ancient Bnmdusium, we should have preferred 
calling up the manes of their ancestors to conversing with the 
present inhabitants. However, we were obliged to be content 
with the living, and we prepared to pay some visits. Our first 
was to the Governor of Brindisi j he could not receive us, as 
he was in the access of a fever. Our next was to the Arch- 
bishop, but he was too ill, and had been carried into the 
country. This account gave us much concern, as he was re- 
presented as a very respectable character, a man of learning, 
and a lover of the arts. He possesses a rich cabinet of an- 
tiquities. 

The convents only'were left, to give us an idea of the society 
of Brindisi : let not this sentence astonish the reader, for his 
surprise must soon cease. The cloister and society! these 
certainly in former times were incompatible expressions, but 
they are now no longer so— we are told that the Jesuits gave 
to their order the title of a society, and that in fact they caused 
a revolution in the monasteries, which seem from this period 
to have almost become the asylum of tolerance, politeness, and 
proper enjoyment. The monks, without losing any of the 
dignity of their situation, have adopted the tone and manners 
of polished society. This change is very perceptible at Brin- 
disi, where, without any exaggeration, nearly half the people 
are inhabitants of convents. The reason of this is very simple : 
in a confined situation, possessing neither the advantages of 
industry nor of commerce, the citizens are exposed for three- 
quarters of the year to obstinate maladies, which make them 
prefer the comfort and assistance which association affords to 
the solitude of a private family : the poverty of many indi- 
viduals is another powerful cause. In the convents are found 
cheerful company, games of all kinds, and music ; so that, in 
fact, their apartments are become saloons. We have visited 
several convents of females: the ladies crowded into the room, 
and shewed much anxiety to see us ; they overwhelmed us 
with questions as frivolous as our answers, but some delight- 
ful music came to our assistance; voices such as we then 
heard are only found in cloisters ; the hymns sung in perfect 
harmony, accompanied by the organ and other musical instru- 
ments, produced a great effect — it seemed almost like a con- 
cert of angels in the middle regions of the sky.- Abundance 



City of Brindisi. f 

of refreshments were offered us, and we departed with a veiy 
agreeable impression of these religious establishments. 

We have mentioned the poverty of the town ; the interior 
of it is consequently gloomy and silent ; the least article ©f 
luxury cannot be obtained here ; in fact, sickness has depopu- 
lated whole streets. There are some large houses Avhich are 
called palaces, but they are uninhabited, and the long grass 
waves in their court-yards ; the proprietors have fled to seek 
elsewhere a purer air, and a less monotonous life ; on the 
walks a few women may be seen, and now and then some 
monks : we remarked three heavy-built coaches drawn by 
mules ; they contained monks. 

The port, which should present an animated picture of mer- 
chandize and commercial bustle, is even more dull than the 
town ; it only displays a stranded galley and a few boats. 
The works ordered by Government languish, affording em- 
ployment to some galley-slaves, who are guarded by almost 
an equal number of soldiers, for the most part sickly and 
diseased : the usual food of both is large white onions, and the 
inhabitants do not fare much better. Troops of beggars assail, 
the church, and the doors of the convents, where souj) is dis- 
tributed : misery is here so great, and disease so extended, that 
one hospital was not sufficient, and they were obliged to erect 
another. The inhabitants of the countiy seem to enjoy an 
easier life, at least if one may judge by the costume of the 
women, which is very neat. 

In general, I believe there is no country where dress is more 
elegant and rich than in the kingdom of Naples — it varies 
from canton to canton, and from village to village, with the 
strangest singularity. The costume of the inhabitants of Brin- 
disi appeared very remarkable, especially of the men, who 
wear our fashions of fifty years since ; our fashions, indeed, 
make the tour of Europe, but they arrive very late at its ex- 
tremity. Paris, which is the centre of activity, necessarily 
possesses less influence in proportion to distance; fashions 
there are like the flowers which bloom during the day, and 
fade at night ; -carried into the provinces they live a little 
longer, and when, at last they reach foreign countries, they 
take root and flourish there a long time. 

jIO; 



■ 8 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 



LETTER II. 



Departure from Brindisi — San Vito della Macchia — Fine kmd- 
scape — Ottara — Monopoli — Ruins of Egnatia — Polignano — • 
Sbigular Caverns — Mola — Bari — Fine tract of Country — Gio- 
vinazzo — Towns on the Coast — Ancient roads — Barletta — 
Description of the field of CanncB — the Tavogliere of La Paglia 
— Fine mountain vieiv — Bovino — Beautiful scenery — Ariano — ■■ 
Plain of Avellino — Monte P^rgine — Cemetery of the White 
Benedictines. 

We set off from Brindisi, and it was too late ere we reached 
San Vito della Macchia, to flatter ourselves with the hope of 
seeing this little town to advantage, which we were told would 
well repay the trouble. It is also called San Vito degli Schiavi, 
from a tradition that it was built at the commencement of the 
15th centuiy by slaves, who erected there a magnificent 
church and a splendid palace. We had no opportunity of 
judging of these, but we were sure of one thing, that the 
founders had extended very little of their munificence to their 
inns, for that where we lodged, and which was the best or 
rather the only one, was very miserable, and yet the popu- 
lation amounts to 4000 souls. 

The Vettnrino did not fail to awaken us an hour before our 
departure, that we might not make him wait, as we had a 
day's journey of 35 miles before us. 

The Sim, as it arose, discovered a veiy interesting country. 
The chain of the Apennines was on our left, and the blue 
summit of these mountains had a very picturesque effect. On 
our right the sea burned with the rays of the sim, which 
seemed to pour down from the top of an ancient fortress called 
Santa Sabina, one of the strongest on the coast. Here and 
there some trees were scattered, and some shepherds' huts, 
whilst the flocks were seen hastening to the pasture grounds. 
We could also perceive the little town of Ostuni, situated on 
a hill, and surrounded with woods, which supply the inhabi- 
tants with the pleasures of the chace. The appearance of the 
country, the fine weather, the open air, and the cxercisCj 



Ruins ofEgnatia. 9 

seemed to strengthen us, and give an appetite. We arrived 
in this disposition at Ottara, where we were to dine. 

Our vehicle stopped in the yard of the most wretched and 
dilapidated inn which can he imagined. The Vetturino hav- 
ing told us, that, as we had still a considerable distance to go, 
we could only stop a veiy little time, immediately left us, and 
bestowed all his attention on his horses ; we had then to run 
from house to house to collect some miserable provisions for 
our still more miserable dinner. It was nevertheless very late 
when we arrived at Monopoli, and we had much difficulty in 
procuring them to open the gates. 

Before resting an entire day in this town, we could not resist 
the desire of visiting the ruins of the ancient Egnatia, to 
which, it is said, this town owes its origin. The walk was yery 
agreeable at this season of the year. We directed our steps 
towards the Abbey of San Stephano, formerly a commandery 
of the Knights Hospitallers, through odorous groves of oranges 
and lemons which surrounded it. At a little distance, and on 
the borders of the sea, there stands a small fortress, protected 
by artilleiy, and garrisoned by some soldiers, who are always 
ready in case of alarm, on the signal of the gimrdia-marina, to 
march towards that part of the coast which is attacked : soon 
afterwards we arrived at the scite of Egnatia. 

The spectacle of a town in ruins and depopulated, is one 
which ought to excite the attention of the historian, the man of 
observation, and the artist; the one find traditions, the other 
sensations, and the third picturesque effect ; and all of them 
deplore the disasters of a powerful city, whose history has 
perished from the memory of man. 

The traces of the ancient towers and walls of the city are 
visible, but we could not find the temple of which preceding 
travellers have spoken ; nor did we penetrate into the place 
wliich is called il Parco, and which has a subterraneous vaulted 
corridor lighted with glass. The other edifices, as the halls of 
baths, tombs, aqueducts, &c. present nothing but a heap of 
ruins, round which parasitic plants have climbed. Egnatia 
did not answer our expectations, notwithstanding all our desire 
to see it. 

From Monopoli to Polignano we followed the sea-coast, 
where, at stated distances, guards are placed. The country 
is more fertile than picturesque, and is planted with olives 
and vines. 

Polignano is a pretty little town, built upon rocks, which 

are hollowed into caverns, into which the sea- water flows, and 

which may be traversed in boats; they descend into them 

from the town by stairs cut in the rock. The populatioa is 

VoYAttSS and Tbavei.s, No, 5. VoU III, C 



10 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

reckoned at 4000 souls, and includes many respectable fami- 
lies ; the country aroinid produces good wine and fruits, and 
the port excellent fish. 

Mola, where we dined, and which is called Mola di Bari, to 
distinguish it from Mola di Gaeta, is situated on the road from 
Naples to Capua. It possesses a citadel, said to have been 
founded by an Athenian colony, on a point which projects into 
the sea. The inhabitants, who are reckoned at 8000, have 
preserved nothing of the taste and politeness of their ancestors ; 
the streets are narrow and dark ; some soap and leather manu- 
factories render them filthy and unhealthy : there is also a 
custom-house and a salt warehouse. After having travelled 
during the day on a very flat but rocky and fatiguing road, we 
arrived at Bari, one of the most interesting towns on this coast. 

Every little tovvn which we have passed through on our 
route, boasts, perhaps with reason, of the importance which 
its antiquity confers on it, or of the historical facts of which it 
has been the theatre. The inhabitants never fail to relate eveiy 
revolution, vicissitude, and disaster, which can be remembered, 
and to name the emperors, kings, and bishops, and, in short, 
every important personage who has given them cause to grieve 
or rejoice. The vicissitudes which Bari has experienced, have 
left it very few relics of antiquity ; all that we saw was an 
ancient mile-stone marked the 28th. 

Oct. 25. — On leaving Bari we were much delighted by the 
beauty of the country, so well cultivated and sowed, as it were, 
at small distances with little towns, all situated on the borders 
of the sea, with convenient ports for small craft, and surrounded 
with rural farms, cottages, and villas, which gave an idea 
of the riches and industry of the inhabitants. We distinguished, 
in the gardens, plantations of orange and lemon trees, arbours 
of vines, hedges of laurels, and parterres bordered with cut 
box, containing all the flowers of the season. We also tra- 
velled through woods of large olive-trees, which stretched 
nearly to the borders of the sea, and through fields covered 
the cotton plant. At this period of the year many Albanians 
pass over into Italy to assist the labourers ; and, as they pre- 
serve their costume, we had much pleasure in recognising in 
Italy the habits and manners of Greece. The citizens and 
peasants whom we met on our route were well cloathed and 
mounted ; they saluted us in a friendly manner, and possessed 
an air of happiness, from which we inferred they were well 
governed : the municipal administration is, in fact, well con- 
ducted. Each of these little towns possesses respectable pub- 
lic establishments, academies for youth, and hospitals for the 
poor, the infirm, and the destitute. 



Ancient roads—Sarletta. 11 

Giovenazzo, the first of these towns after Bari, is old, and 
built, it is said, on the ruins of Natiolo or Netio ; but the 
period of its construction is uncertain : it is surrounded by 
walls, and its cathedral is in a good style of architecture. The 
population is said to amount to 5,200. A few miles further on 
lies Molfetta, a modern town, whose inhabitants, in number 
3000, are said to be very industrious. Then follows BescegUa, 
built on a rock which is washed by the sea. 

It is remarkable, that in this part of the country the houses 
of the peasants are all built on the same model ; at first, on 
the authority of former travellers, we imagined them to be 
ancient tombs, which they resemble in form : they are built in 
isolated situations, and rise here and there in the midst of the 
plains and pasture grounds, for here the TavoUere commences. 
(See Plate I.) 

Trani, like the other towns situated on the coast, is built of 
a yellowish stone, which does not grow darker by exposure 
to the atmosphere, and which gives the edifices a light plea- 
sant appearance. This town contains some curious monuments, 
and is inhabited by many of the nobility. The population is 
reckoned at 14,000 souls ;' but it possesses less commerce than 
Barletta, where we arrived very late Avith an intention of slay- 
ing two days. 

In the time of the Romans, Magna Graecia was intersected 
by an infinite number of roads ; and although the Via Appia 
was the most celebrated, there were many others equally good, 
and constructed with the same care— such as the Domitiana, 
the Herculeana, that of Campania or the Consularis, the No- 
iana, the Latina, the Egnatiana, and the Brusiana, which led 
from Reggio to Calabria. These roads had all their different 
branches; at present there is only one great road, which 
traverses the kingdom, and that is in bad repair. 

The streets of Barletta are straight and Avell paved ; the 
walls, which are a mile in circuit, are solidly constructed, and 
the citadel is strong : they shew to strangers the Orfanosio, 
or retreat for orphans, two schools of jjolite learning, and some 
churches. Here resides the Reggio Portolano, who, under the 
command of the royal chamber of Naples, inspects the pro- 
visions which are collected in the Capitanate and the territory 
of Bari. Here also the Royal Council of Commerce is held, 
and this town is the residence of the Inspector of the Salt 
Manufactories, and of the Grand Prior of Malta, who holds 
the assemblies at which the Knights bring proof of their no- 
bility. The number of inhabitants is said to be 16,000. 

We now made a visit to the celebrated field of Cannae. The 
expression which is applied to designate the theatre, where 



12 Castellan's Travels in Italy. " 

the pride of the monarch-people was humbled, gives a strong 
idea of the traces which this terrible catastrophe has left on 
the mind, and of the consternation which seized the people 
of that day, and which has descended to their posterity — the 
plain is called, II canipo di sangue, or the Field of Blood. It is 
very sterile, and contains only a few scattered villages, and 
crowds of cattle which with their rude conductors wander about 
in the pathless waste. After having left on our right the Adriatic 
and the Castle of Barletta, situate some miles from that town 
at the mouth of the Ofanto, we crossed that river by a bridge. 
This stream is the ancient Aufidus, Avhich, in the sanguinary 
contest at Cannse, was covered with floating corpses. When 
we had crossed the river we entered an immense plain, which, 
as far as the eye could reach, did not contain a single tree. 
We were only interrupted by numerous flocks, w^iich were 
spread over this sterile land ; from morning to night nothing 
was heard but the barking of shepherd-dogs, the shouts of 
their masters, and the sound of their horns, with which they 
answered one another, or collected their flocks. 

We passed some very miserable villages — San Cassano, La- 
tomba, and Cirignola ; between Cirignola and La Stornara we 
passed the two branches of the Tratturo delle pecore, which 
lead from Foggia the capital of the province — the one towards 
Ascoli, the other towards Canosa, We arrived very late at 
Ordona, an inn surrounded by some huts, where we could 
get nothing but rushes to sleep on. Having foreseen the ab- 
solute nakedness of this land, we luckily provided ourselves 
with some viands, which it would have been impossible to 
procure there. 

It is now time to give some account of the TavoUere of La 
Puglia, of which we have traversed the greater part. They 
give this name to the tract of land which lies between the 
Adriatic and the Apennines, and which extends from Civitare 
to Andria, in length about 70 miles, and in breadth 30. This 
vast plain of pasturage is frequented by a set of people, whose 
cattle successively consume the herbage of every part; yet it 
would maintain more human creatures than it does cattle at 
present, if the system of pasturage, which is favoured by the 
Government from pecuniary motives, were not preferred to 
tillage. At the present mdment the Tavoliere supports im- 
mense flocks of sheep, and the revenue arising from it is 
reckoned at 425,600 ducats. 

At some miles from Ordona we began to remark the pro- 
gress of vegetation ; first a few thickets, and then some plan- 
tations of olives, which certainly were sufficiently distant from 
one another. At length Ave perceived the mountains so long 



Bovtno-^ltalian Scenery. 13 

wished for, and by their blue tint could see they were covered 
with vast forests ; as we approached them we felt a sensation 
of delight which can be experienced by none but painters — 
their forms gradually expanded, and the outlines of each 
became visible, and we could distinguish the different kinds 
of trees with which they were covered, and the little villages 
and rural habitations built on their sides. We now began to 
ascend a more elevated country ; the cattle of Sauri is the first 
object in this interesting picture ; it commands the plain inter- 
sected by the windings of the Cervaro ; Bovino next presented 
itself to our attention. 

This town must formerly have been of much importance, 
if we may judge by the ruins with which it is surrounded, and 
the marbles, medals, and other antiquities which are found 
in turning the ground. We had 20 miles to go ere we 
reached Ariano, so having dined in haste, favoured by the 
most beautiful weather we gave ourselves up to all the en- 
chantment of the sylvan pictures, which unfolded themselves 
to our eyes during the remainder of this, and for several suc- 
ceeding days. Sometimes the road lay along narrow parapets, 
raised on and bounded by deep declivities ; sometimes it was 
elevated on lofty causeways, and now it was formed of bridges 
thi'own from rock to rock, in order to leave a free passage to 
the wintry torrents; farther on it descended with a gentle 
slope to the bottom of the vallies ; then we followed the 
windings of streams, whose rapid waters dashed past rocks 
which impeded their course, or finding a smoother channel, 
murmured through the meadows, beneath the shade of nut- 
trees and alders. 

Although it was late in the year, vegetation \vas still rich 
and abundant ; in the plains which we had quitted the trees 
had become bare, and the meadows scorched up by the heat, 
and covered with dust : but here the trees bore the rich 
livery of autumn, the vines glowed with a purple hue, and 
the transparent grapes fostered by a refreshing dew, hung in 
clusters from the extremity of the branches. The hills were 
covered with orchards, from which Pomona filled her rudrly 
baskets, and the summits of the mountains were cloathed 
with the unfading verdure of the pine. 

Occasionally, isolated and arid rocks rose before us, crowned 
with ancient castles, whose pyramidal keeps were now only 
the refuge of ravens, or the boast of noble families, whose 
origin they recalled. The picture varied every instant ; when 
we traversed, in the morning, a deep valley, the shadows of 
the mountains generally covered the greater part of it, while 
the opposite heights burned^ with all the rays of the rising 



14 Castellan's Travels in Italy, 

sun ; these rays darting through the summits of the rocks, 
pierced in luminous columns the mass of dense vapours which 
were collected in the valley; while at night the immense disk 
of that brilliant luminary sinking before us, illuminated all 
our path. Before it disappeared, it seemed to communicate a 
rapid motion to a million of floating atoms in the inflamed 
atmosphere, which, as it sunk, were plunged, like ourselves, 
into the shade and the stillness of night. 

I have traversed many countries, all celebrated for the 
beauty of their scenery ; I have travelled through Greece, 
Italy, and Switzerland, and the livelier plains of my own 
country, but I have no where met with such a rich union of 
picturesque objects as in the kingdom of Naples. 

The climate of this province is more temperate, and the 
air more pure than that of Campania ; the towns are almost 
all of them built upon the sides of hills ; the elevation of the 
ground, and its mountainous form, render it colder than Cam- 
pania ; indeed, frost commences at the end of October, but 
the rivers never are frozen. This province produces good 
marble, and has a salt mine at Monte-Fuscoli. Notwithstand- 
ing the feudal system, it is the best peopled part of the king- 
dom after Campania ; the pasture-grounds are few ; as for 
thefts, the number was so great that we left off" counting 
them ; we lost several little articles by the way, but all our 
inquiries after them were vain ; all the answer we got was an 
articulate sound, a grimace, or a shrug of the slioulders, as 
though they mocked us. Having left an article of some value 
at our inn Ave despatched a messenger back for it, having the 
politeness to pay him before hand : the consequence was, that 
neither messenger or property ever made their appearance. 

At length we perceived Ariana, situated on a range of high 
rock which rose in the midst of a plain washed by tlie Calore and 
the Tripaldo; we reached the town after many windings, for our 
course resembled that of a vessel in distress, which is obliged 
repeatedly to tack in order to enter the port. The fatigue of 
our horses, which had ceased to regard the admonitions of 
the whip, the coldness of the evening air, and the calls of 
hunger increased our impatience, which seemed to afford 
much diversion to our driver ; he insisted on the advantages 
of the impregnable situation of the town; he boasted of the 
purity of the air, and the beauty of the prospect, and answered 
all our pressing inquiries by the words adesso, adesso, arriviamo, 
ci vuoljiegma. We had need of all our patience not to lay a 
hearty malediction on the men, whose madness had led them 
to build their habitations out of human reach. 

.iU'ianp is a miserable town; all its manufactures consist of 



Ariano — Monte Virgine. 15 

common earthenware: the soil is mixed with marine remains. 
The country between Ariano and Avellino presents some very 
picturesque prospects ; sometimes embosomed in rocks, and 
amid the deepest solitude, we listened to the rush of the tor- 
rents, the cries of the birds of prey, and the roar of the winds 
which swept through the clefts of the mountains. Farther on 
we found ourselves buried in the deep silence of woods which 
seemed impenetrable. On leaving the forests the scene 
clianged, and as we emerged we perceived by the noise of a 
mill, the barking of dogs, or the zampogna (the pipe of a shep- 
herd,) that we were in the neighbourhood of human habita- 
tions. At last the plain of Avellino was spread before our 
eyes in all its richness. 

There is not a spot in it uncultivated ; every part is covered 
with vegetation ; orchards are mingled with vines, and mea- 
dows with corn-fields : all the gifts of Nature are lavished 
most luxuriously, which delight the eye, and rejoice the 
senses. Magnificent avenues of trees lead to the gates of the 
town ; and, as the traveller enters, he recognizes the bustle of 
commerce and industry, the footsteps of the arts, and all the 
appearance of a populous city. 

On the Monte Vergine there is a convent of white Benedic- 
tines, founded about 1 134 ; the cemetery of the convent is con- 
sidered as a curious object ; it is a vast cavern on the same 
level with the church, and is cut in the rock : it has the sin- 
gular property of preserving the bodies deposited in it, in the 
freshness of the period of their dissolution. On leaving this 
town we left Monte Vergine on our right ; the appearance of 
this mountain is curious, it is sprinkled over with chapels, 
oratories, and crosses, the whole length of the winding way 
which leads to the sanctuary. The buildings present a very 
picturesque outline, and the whole effect is almost theatrical. 



LETTER III. 

Arrival at Naples — Character of the Neapolitans — Vesuvius — 
Castel-nuovo — View from the Gulf of Naples — Visit to Pouz- 
zuole — Grotto of Pausilypo — Curious effect of the sun-beams — 
Singular phenomenon — Remains of Antiquity — The Solfatara 
Tomb of Virgil — and of Sanazaro. 

TT E are in Naples! The city of which the Italians them- 
selves are at a loss for expressions of sufficient admiration, 
compressing thfcir praise into the proverb — See Naples and die! 



18 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

As we approached we entered the walks which extend from 
the gates of the city, bordered with fountains, chapels, and 
houses of entertainment ; a little later and it would have been 
pleasant enough, but at present it was nothing but a scene of 
noise, dust, and disorder — only imagine crowds of peasants in 
every description of dress, carts loaded with the produce of 
the country jostling brilliant equipages preceded by outriders, 
open carriages, and horsemen spurring through the crowd, and 
in the midst of this confusion our melancholy vehicle dragged 
slowly on by our tired horses. 

The Neapolitan delights in ease, pleasure, and noise ; he is 
full of vivacity, speaks quickly, and at great length ; and he 
has great power of comic expression in his gestures, which are 
innumerable ; much attached to fetes and shews, notbing is 
seen but rope-dancers, pickpockets, puppet-shows, and ballad- 
singers : they make great use of the tambourine, of the casta-^ 
nets, or nacchere, and of the colascino, a two-stringed instru- 
ment. Their religious festivals are generally preferred, and 
they certainly are very brilliant. The churches seem to be 
converted into theatres, and resound with light and cheerfnl 
sounds ; the audience turn their backs on the altar, and fix 
all their attention on the orchestra. The processions are an 
object of great curiosity ; they extend to an immense length, 
as almost the whole population of the city is enrolled in some 
one ot the fraternities of white, blue, grey, or black penitents. 

The pleasures of the table are much sought after by the 
Neapolitans, the least sober of all the Italians. During the 
carnival, and the great festivals, the streets seem loaded with 
viands, which are scarcely sufficient to supply the consump- 
tion of the day ; at every corner stand immense baskets of 
maccaroni, which the passengers carry away by handsfull ; 
while ices are distributed from coolers filled with snow. At 
another place you may see them measuring out to the Lazza- 
roni the coffee, which they call levante, and which if it does 
not possess the fine flavour, at least has the colour. Pride and 
misery, which in great capitals border so nearly on one ano- 
ther, present in Naples a striking picture ; individuals who 
sport splendid equipages, lacqueys, and couriers cloathed in 
rich liveries, live in the most restricted style in the interior of 
their palaces, of which they perhaps only inhabit the garrets. 

The Lazzaroni, however, seem to boast of their poverty ; 
they walk bare-footed, and frequently without shirts, and sleep 
in such places as the recesses of a church. These people are 
completely unincumbered, without a hearth, and witiiout a 
home, they live continually in the open air ; as soon as they 
have collected a few carlini, they spend them in a glass of ice. 



Appearance of Vesuvius. 1/ 

or some boiled maccaroni ; they then fall to sleep, till urged 
again by necessity to seek their little sum of money, that they 
may once more enjoy their benedetto far niente. There are 
many different accounts given of the Lazzaroni : some pretend 
that they form a separate body, and elect a king who enjoys a 
pension, and that their number amounts to 40,000, all which 
is false — the population of Naples is only 400,200, and it is 
very improbable that a tenth part of it should be composed of 
Lazzaroni. 

In the manners, institutions, and even language of the Nea- 
politans, the footsteps of strangers are visible ; the French 
more especially have left many traces of their dominion ; their 
name even is become the generic designation of strangers, 
and the word Frank is applied to every foreigner. The Greek 
origin of the Neapolitans may be still perceived in their phy- 
siognomy and their character ; they possess the intelligence 
and quickness of perception, and even the manual address 
for which the Greeks were remarkable ; they are like them 
lovers of noise, joy, and pleasantry, and of mimicry and 
satirical productions ; we therefore find amongst them the 
best mimics : the facetious Tiberio Fiorelli, who gained such 
celebrity in France, under the name of Scaramouch, came 
from Naples. 

One of the greatest objects of my curiosity on my amval at 
Naples was Vesuvius ; my surprise and disappointment were 
great on beholding this celebrated mountain — I had imagined 
to myself a volcano ploughed into deep furrows by streams of 
lava, which marked with black traces their devastating path ; 
I thought to walk amongst hanging rocks, demolished edi 
fices, and the crumbling ruins of the mountain over which 
clouds of thick floating smoke passed, forming a scene almost 
resembling one of the mouths of Tartarus : in fact, however, 
I only saw a hill of ordinary dimensions, of a broad conical 
shape, without any variety in its appearance, without any 
inequality in its declivity, of an uniform ashy colour, and the 
crater of which exhales a little vapour, which is only percep- 
tible in the morning and at evening, when the rays of the sun 
fall upon it obliquely. No doubt the volcano, filled with fire 
and flame, burning in the darkness of night, and terrifying the 
countiy, its bellowing and shaking would have produced a 
livelier impression on my senses, than this dark and sterile 
mass which rises in the midst of a flourishing country. 
Nevertheless, when one thinks how a whole people can gaily 
dance and sing on the edge of this terrific precipice — ^that 
their harvests, their orchards, and their delicious villas, are 
supported by. a thin bed of earth, cloathed indeed with the 

VoYAGfis and TBAYfi|,§. No, 5, VoU UL J> 



18 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

most verdant carpet, but undermined by ever-burning- fires, 
which may at any moment engulph them — this contrast of ani- 
mated and vigorous life with a spot where every thing lan- 
guishes and dies — this opposition oi the brightest colours with 
an uniform grey and livid tint — the silent crater, and the pro- 
found but deceitful calm — all inspire a melancholy kind of 
feeling, and a conviction of disaster, which persuade us of 
the emptiness of human pursuits, and speak of peril and death. 

Castel- nuovo, from which there is a fine view of Vesuvius, 
is a favourite promenade of the Neapolitans, who walk there 
for the sake of enjoying the pure air, and the odours of the 
flowers with which the valleys are covered ; they are wafted 
by the land-breeze very regularly, which every evening 
sweetens and refreshes the streets of Naples, which are parched 
by the heat of the sun — it re-animates the over-fatigued frames 
of the inhabitants, communicate fresh vivacity to the spirits, 
and gives birth to festivities and pleasures which stretch far 
into the night. 

The view of Naples from the sea has been compared to that 
of Constantinople, and it is said these two cities form the most 
beautiful pictures of the kind in the world ; but Naples is in- 
finitely more picturesque, and it o\Ves this advantage to the 
disposition of the ground, which, by its winding and abrupt 
jines, displays the edifices of the city better, towering above 
each other, and yet gives the masses sufficiently detached and 
distinct, while the borders of the Bosphorus, in general level 
or rounded into hills, present lines of great length without 
variety of form, and without contrast of effect. 

In arriving in the Gulf of Naples, leaving the isles of Ischia 
and Capree, which seem like advanced guards, the most beauti- 
ful pictures break upon the sight; on the left the steep rocks 
of Procita stretch from Cape Misene, behind which the Gulf of 
Pouzzuole is seen, overshadowed by Monte Barbaro. — As the 
gazer approaches, the interest is concentrated, and his eye 
takes in the prospect between Pausilypo and Mount Vesuvius; 
Naples occupies the centre, and its edifices rise in groups 
behind Santa Elma, the Acropolis of the ancient Parthenope. 

To enjoy this view an hour should be chosen favourable to 
picturesque effect ; the traveller should enter his boat towards 
the close of day — the sun is setting behind the tomb of 
Virgil, surrounding it with his resplendent rays ; not yet con- 
cealed behind the point of Pausilypo, he still sheds his lights 
on the remains of antiquity, which lie dispersed on the shores 
of Pouzzuole, and be at last plunges himself into the sea 
between the promontoiy of Misene and the isle of Procita, 
though he still gilds behind us the rocky cliifs of Anacapri. 



Grotto of Paiisilypo. $-19 

The evening deepens, and the clear azure of the sky is painted 
with the colours of the rose and the violet, and then with a 
grey silvery tint, the soft shadowing of the mantle of night, 
through which even now a few trembling stars are visible — 
the breeze dies, the waves grow tranquil, the sea becomes 
smooth and transparent ; and the star of Venus, reflected in 
the waters, shines like a diamond swimming on their surface, 
while the voices of the sailors rise upon the air singing their 
evening hymn. 

After having tasted all the sweets of the deepest calm, and en- 
joyed the most sublime beauties of Nature, the noise and bustle 
of the city was more than I could bear, and I hastened to repose. 

Although it is late in the year the weather is beautiful, and 
the atmosphere is as pure as in any of our summer days ; the 
plains are still green ; there is no season more favourable than 
this for visiting the delicious banks of Pouzzuole. I set off with 
my friend in a calesso, a vehicle drawn by one horse, and we 
traversed the populous streets of the city, dashing over the 
pavement, and piercing the crowd with the speed of light, and 
grazing and crossing other carriages, which flew as quickly, 
yet without any other injury than the anxiety occasioned by 
the rapidity of our course ; when we arrived on the quay of 
Cliiaya, our horse redoubled his speed, and in a moment we 
reached the grotto of Pausilypo. 

At sun-set in this place, but only at this period of the year, 
a very picturesque effect may be observed ; the horizontal 
beams grazing the side of the grotto, penetrate into the 
cavity, and illuminate all the length of it ; and when you pass 
at this moment, the particles of dust always in motion, have 
all the appearance of a stream of flame, with which the pas- 
sengers are dazzled, and almost suffocated, and immersed in 
which they seem only like transparent shadows. 

On leaving the grotto we drove to a village called Fuori- 
Grotta, and then through a country where the trees were 
twined together by festoons of vines ; after that we entered a 
long avenue of poplars, leaving Cape Pausilypo on the left, 
and on the right the Vomero covered with beautiful villages 
and seats, overtopped by a delicious hermitage, from which all 
the Campania J'elice is seen, and even a part of the Roman 
states. The sea, with all its isles, lay before us ; the road is 
cut amongst the rocks, and a mimerous body of galley slaves 
was employed in repairing it. The miserable lot of these 
wretches causes many melancholy reflexions, and casts ovei 
the laughing landscapes a shade which tarnishes its beauty. 

The history of Pouzzuoli is well known ; celebrated in the 
time of the Romans for the unbridled luxury and voluptuous- 



iO Castellan's Traveh in Italy, 

ness of its inhabitants; it was destroyed by an earthquake. 
The declivity of the hill, at the foot of which the modern city 
is built, is covered with the ruins of ancient edifices and 
temples j that of Jupiter Serapis is alone distinguishable by 
its form. The foundations exist entire ; three columns are still 
standing, and the fragments of the others lie scattered about; 
this temple was magnificent, though of small proportions and 
of a circular form. 

The three columns present a singular phenomenon, which 
has never been explained in a satisfactoiy manner ; these co- 
lumns, and many of the others which have been overthrown, are 
perforated nearly all at the same height in the form of a ring, 
by a little marine worm (the mitylus lithophagtis) . Some 
people pretend that this is a proof that at some period the 
waters of the sea have flowed much above their present level, 
and that they have left these traces on the shores of Pouzzuole ; 
but this assertion, though supported by many clever men, 
seems by no means satisfactory ; for how can it be supported, 
that an inundation, which must have covered a part of Europe, 
and have lasted long enough to have allowed these worms to 
pierce the marble, lias left no trace in history, and that 
there are no marks of its remaining but on the coast of Pouz- 
zuole ? The real cause probably is, that these columns have 
been all cut from the same quarry, which has contained a bed 
of marine petrifactions, softer than the base of marble, which, 
being decomposed, have left the cavities with which the cohmin 
is pierced. 

On ascending the hill we meet with subten'aneous remains 
bordering the road, belonging to some ruins which they call the 
Temple of Neptune ; a little higher there are some remains of 
a Temple of Diana, the ruins of an ancient v.ay, and an 
aqueduct, of M'hich some portions are well preserved. The 
last object is an amphitheatre, the seats of which, no longer 
Tisible, are entirely covered Avith little gardens. On leaving 
the amphitheatre our guide conducted us to the Via Campana, 
an ancient consular road, which forms a continuation of the 
Via Appia ; it is bordered with tombs constmcted by the an- 
cient inhabitants of Pouzzuole ; the sepulchral chambers are 
varied in their forms, but are built in a good style ; they are 
all built of brick covered with stucco, or with cement, on 
which are still distinguishable the remains of paintings of ex- 
quisite taste. If these tombs have been violated, it is owing to 
the shameless curiosity of modern times, when the sacred 
asylums have been overthrown in search of vases containing 
only tears, or some few pieces of gold mixed with cinders ! 

Continuing to ascend, the traveller arrives at a sort of inclo- 



vrvTc'Liay:!: 




TOM IS O.P VliRCIL. 



Tomb of Virgil, 21 

sure, which is clearly the crater of an ancient volcano : it is the 
Solfatara. The mouth of the crater is immense: surrounded 
by arid rocks, the centre is crowned with a wood of youn^ 
chesnut- trees; a winding pathway, overshadowed by their 
foliage, conducts us to the alum mines and to the Solfatara. 
On the way our guide related to us some curious facts respect- 
ing this place. Thus, if you dig to the depth of one foot the 
stones which lie there are too hot to be held in the hand • if 
you stamp violently on the ground it returns a sound which 
seems to indicate the existence of great cavities. 

But the most extraordinary appearance is that of the columns 
of smoke which rise from the crevices of the ground, covering 
it with crystallizations of every colour. To catch the full effect 
of this spectacle it is necessary to stand on the side from which 
the wind blows, or it is still better to wait till the atmosphere is 
calm. The vapour then rises in thick twisted columns of 
brilliant whiteness ; they whirl around, enlarging as they 
ascend, and at last they seem to dissolve into air, leaving no 
trace in the azure sky. An attempt was made to establish an 
alum manufactory where these vapours issue most abundantly, 
but the fevers which attacked the workmen caused it to be re- 
linquished. 

In descending the steep sides of the crater, by a very difficult 
path we visited the fountain of Pischiarelli, which appears to 
takes its course from the furnace of Solfatara. The waters 
possess strong medicinal properties. Tired with our journey, 
we stood in need of repose, of freshness, and of shade, and we 
found them all on the borders of the limpid lake of Agnano, 
where we enjoyed a rural repast. 

As we ascended a hill an ancient edifice, covered with ver- 
dure and crowned with laurel, met our view. The following 
inscription was traced upon the rock : 

QUM CINERIS TUMULO H^C VESTIGIA ? CONDITUR GLIM 
ILLE HIG, QUI CECINIT PASCUA, RURA, DUCES. 

It was the tomb of Virgil! Time has shewn less respect to this 
last asylum of the illustrious dead, than to his unperishing 
glory : the monument is in ruins, and the interior is empty. 
[See Plate 11.) 

The memory of great names adds beauty to the most deso- 
late scene. I was now surrounded by objects, which to the 
most picturesque charms, added the interest of having been 
described by Homer and by Virgil. There, Avernus, the 
marshes of Acheron, and the grotto of the Sibyl, lay 
stretched before me ; farther on, the city of Cumae, and the 
perfumed hills of Falernia. At my feet was the superb Par- 
thenope, and the sea of Misene, while my eye rested on the 



52 Castellan's Travels in Italy, 

isles which adorned its bosom ; then turning off at Capree, 
it rai)idly glided along the shores of Lorrente, along the Lata- 
rian mountains, the rock of Hercules, and the ruins of Stabia, 
Pompeii, and Herculaneum, At last it reposed on temples, ou 
marble palaces, and all the beautiful e(hfices of the capital, 
whose low murmurs, and light wreaths of smoke, scarcely 
reached my elevated station. 

It is said that the tomb of Virgil was constructed by the 
orders of Augustus in the bosom of the villa which the poet 
possessed upon the borders of Pausilypo, and where a great 
portion of his work was composed. The younger Pliny informs 
us that this country residence was afterwards the property of 
Silius Italicus, who was consul after the death of Nero. He 
was formerly the owner of the villa to which Cicero gave the 
name of the Academy. Silius delighted to meditate in the 
very spots where Virgil drew his inspiration, and which 
prompted his own muse in the composition of his poem on the 
African war. The tomb of the immortal poet was to him an 
object of worship, and he suffered not a single day to elapse 
without visiting it. This monument, the situation of which is 
pointed out, in the place where it is now seen, by iElius Do- 
natus, a grammarian of the fourth century, now presents only 
ruins, of which the original design can hardly be conjectured. 
It is covered with a vault constructed in opus reticulatum ; in 
the interior are seen several niches, to which access is only 
obtained by irregular passages opened by violence about the 
year 1326, until which period a sarcophagus remained in the 
tomb, supported by nine small columns of white marble, and 
containing the ashes of the poet. These venerable relics were 
removed by King Robert of Anjou, who was anxious for their 
safety, and transported to Castel-nuovo, where, notwithstanding 
the researches of Alphonso I. of Arragon, they have never 
since been seen. In the time of Eugenius, about the year 1625, 
the following inscription was dug up in the neighbourhood: — 

" Siste Viator, quaxo ; puree, legito, hie Maro situs est.^' 

On leaving the ancient heritage of Virgil, the eye enjoys a 
prospect of the greatest richness. Pathways, winding down 
gentle declivities, border the edges of the rocks. — They are 
supported by enormous walls, piered with arcades, and flanked 
by counter-forts. Houses, embosomed in gardens, rise on these 
ramparts in the form of steps. These are again surmounted by 
terraces, rendered impenetrable to damp by cement, and on 
which flourish the arbutus and the vine. These aerial bowers 
guard the habitations from the rays of the sun, and make the 
most delightful retreats, which, catching the refreshing sea- 
breeze, temper the heat of the atmosphere. During the 



Tomb of Sanazaro, 23 

night, especially, the most delicious freshness is found here. 
Many persons pass the night on these terraces under no other 
roof than the vault of heaven, or the shade of the trees, a 
pleasure well appreciated under the serene sky of Naples, and 
in the warm, diy, and healthy climate of Greece. 

At the foot of the mountain, on the borders of the sea, at the 
extremity of the beautiful piers, which in this spot stretch out 
in semi-circles, rise the church and convent of Santa Maria 
del Parto, celebrated for the tomb of Sanazaro, the Virgil of 
the Neapolitans. 

King Frederic, who was much attached to the poet, gave 
him this agreeable retreat, with a house Avhich he had built 
there. Sanazaro took great delight in embelhshing the soli- 
tude which he never afterwards quitted, and whose charms he 
unceasingly celebrated. 

We may judge of his despair, when, during the siege of 
Naples by the French in 1528, Lautrec, having made this place 
his head quarters, was attacked there by the Prince of Orange. 
They fought with great fury on both sides ; at last, Lautrec 
was defeated, but the Casino and its plantations were destroyed. 
The poet, in grief, quitted Naples, and died soon aftenvards, 
leaving this estate to the monks of the Holy Virgin, that they 
might erect, on the ruins of his favourite retreat, a church, 
which he endowed with an income of six hundred ducats, and 
to which was given the name of Santa Maria del Parto, in re- 
membrance of one of Sanazaro's poems, entitled, De Partu 
Virginis. 

The relations of Sanazaro carried his body to Naples, and 
raised a magnificent tomb to him in the church of Santa Maria, 
at the foot of the mountain where the ashes of Virgil repose, 
and on it were inscribed the following lines, written by the 
celebrated Cardinal Bembo : — 

" Da Sacro cineri flores. Hie ille Maroni 
" Sincerus Musa proxiraus ut tumulo.* 

The Neapolitan bard wrote on the model, and indeed caught 
many of the beauties, of his master. Like him he sung of the 
Shepherds, and the pleasures and labours of the country ; but, 
instead of depicting heroes, he has produced, in the poems on 
which he rested his reputation, a most extravagant mixture of 
Christian mysteries and mythological fables. Although his 
Latin poetry is written with great purity, and in his Italian 
poems, and particularly in his Arcadia, there is much delicacy 

* " Fresh flowerets strew, for Sanazar lies here, 
"In genius, as in place, to Virgil near. ' 
= ^ J Roscoe's Leo X. v. 3, p. 389. 

*"■* Acciu3 Sincerus was the academical name of sanazaro. 



^ Castellan's TVavehTin tialy. 

and simplicity, yet it may perhaps be said, that his talent has 
move facility than originality, more grace than vigour. In 
short, to mingle with the poets of antiquity, he seems to have 
resigned bis rank amongst the poets of modern times. 

The tomb of Sanazaro has been the subject of much lively 
discussion amongst the historians of the arts ; and, as it is well 
designed and executed, the glory of it is attributed to several 
diferent artists. Some assign it to Gio-Angelo Poggibonsi, a 
'i'uscan ; others to Girolamo Santacroce, a Neapolitan. 

The executors of the poet, and the brothers of the conv'ent 
of Margellina, formed themselves into two parties, when the 
monument was to be erected. The former declared themselves 
in favour of the design modelled by Santacroce ; the monks 
wished Poggibonsi, who was one of their order, to undertake 
the whole work. At last they came to an arrangement, and 
each of the artists had a portion of the work assigned to him. 



LETTER IV. 



Description of Pompeii. 

1 CANNOT quit this part of Italy without giving some account 
of the Museum of Portici, which contains a very complete col- 
lection of antiquities, discovered in the bosom of the earth, 
still perfect, and in the vei*y situation in which they were sur- 
prized by the dreadful scourge which at the same lime over- 
whelmed the cities of Herculaneum, Pompeii, and Stabia. 
(See plate III.) 

Portici is a countiy residence of the King of Naples, who 
frequently visits it with his court. This palace, which com- 
mands a magnificent view of the sea is surrounded by beautiful 
gardens, planted on the base of Mount Vesuvius. It was built 
in the year 1738, by Charles of Bourbon, who also founded the 
Museum. This immense collection consists of a vast number 
of bronze and marble statues, of pictures, and of vases of gold, 
of silver, and of earthen-ware still more precious. On one side 
are seen articles of fiu-niture elegantly designed, such as tables, 
curule chairs, tripods, lamps and candelabra; on the other, 
instruments of agriculture, of chimrgery, of music, and kitchen 
utensils. In another quarter are arms offensive and defensive, 
jewels and other appendages of the toilette; intaglios, cameos, 
and other precious stones set in rings, in pins, and bracelets. 
We find there also colours for painting, eggs, cheese, walnuts. 



r,n';vri.m:N':V. 




Toeira'Eiii. 



Curiosities of Pompeii. 25 

and leguminous vegetables, the forms of which are still distin- 
guishable. There are even some remains of \Aine and oil. 
One of the greatest curiosities is an entire library, which once 
was the delight of some scholar of the Augustan age, and which 
creates despair in our owni ; for all the rolls of Papyrus have 
been either reduced to a cinder or destroyed by damp. The 
latter fall into dust the moment they are touched, and the others 
only owe their superior preservation to the heat which has cal- 
cined them. With skill and industiy, it is even possible to 
unfold them, and to put them into a condition to be read and 
transcribed. The famous Padre Antonio Piaggi, the inventor 
of the process, has as yet unfolded only a very small number. 
The slowness of his operations, and, aljove all, the disappear- 
ance of a great part of these precious manuscripts, are causes 
of just complaint. 

It was in the first age of the Christian era, and in the reign 
of Titus, when that violent eruption of the volcano occurred 
which destroyed several cities, and filled all Italy with con- 
sternation. To the ruin which seemed to have extinguished 
them for ever, Herculaneum, Stabia, and Pompeii, are indebted, 
for their miraculous preservation and their present celebrity. 
Herculaneum and Pompeii stood near each other, but the his- 
tory of the latter is but little known ; it was a sea-port town, 
situated about five miles distant from the crater of Vesuvius, 
at the mouth of the wSarno. Its harbour was common to the 
inhabitants of Nola, of Nocera, and of Accra, but the eruption 
of the volcano changed its site, or, rather, that of the 
river, which now flows several leagues distant from its 
former bed. The lava and the ashes filled up the port, and 
created a new shore, which encroached to a great extent upon 
the sea. 

Pompeii had been much injured by the earthquake, in the 
year 63, and it was entirely buried by the eruption of 79, — the 
first-mentioned in history, and fatally celebrated for the great 
number of cities which it destroyed, for the multitude of its 
victims, and for the death of Pliny. Herculaneum, much 
nearer the volcano, was overwhelmed by a hard and compact 
substance, which it has been necessary to dig out with infinite 
labour, in order to disengage the monuments. This substance, 
in its fluid state, had penetrated into the remotest recesses, 
and had filled them as if with molten lead; whilst Pompeii had 
only disappeared under a shewer of loose ashes. These it was 
easy to remove, since they only rose a few inches above the 
edifices. This shower of stones and burning matter extended 
as far as Castello a Mare, the ancient Stabia, and covered the 
countiy for thirty miles round, but with an intensity decreasing 
Voyages and Travels, No. 5, Vol. III. E 



tE^ Caitglhn's Travels in Italy. 

in proportion to its distance. At Pompeii there fell stones 
-weighing as much as eight pounds, and at Stabia not more 
than an ounce. 

In 1689, on turning up the earth in the neighbourhood of 
Vesuvius about a mile from the sea, some antique inscriptions 
were fcimd, making mention of the city of Pompeii, which was 
not suspected to have existed on that spot, and this discovery 
produced no further consequences. However, in 1713, the 
Prince D'Elbeuf, a general officer in the Austrian service, 
built a country house, at Portici, a beautiful spot, but almost 
deserted. Having occasion for some blocks of marble, he ^A'as 
informed that an inhabitant of the village, in sinking a well, 
had discovered a large quantity. The prince purchased the 
land; and his workmen, having discovered a vault, penetrated 
into it, and found several fine fragments of marble statuary. 
Encouraged by this circumstance, tlie prince redoubled his 
researches, which produced so many remarkable acquisitions, 
that the jealousy of the Neapolitan government induced it to 
assume to itself the direction of the works. At last, at the 
depth of 70 feet there was discovered an entire city — the ancient 
Herculaneum, with its temples, its theatres, its private houses, 
replete with marble and bronze statues, with pictures, and with 
furniture; and, in a word, with eveiy thing which the unfore- 
seen and sudden catastrophe had allowed no time to remove. 

It seemed impossible to restore Herculaneum to the light of 
day, because the earth -vvhich covers them nov,- supports the 
cities of Portici and Castello a Mare ; but, the true site of Pom- 
peii having been fortunately discovered under land little 
adapted to cultivation, it was easy to obtain possession of it, 
and it was determined to disengage that city from the mass of 
ashes which concealed it. 

The first excavation, made in 17'^>5, discovered by a singular 
and fortunate chance, the road which led to the gate of the 
city. It has three passages: that in the middle for carriages; 
and the two others, which are much narrower, for foot passen- 
gers. The road, paved with irregular blacks of lava, and lined 
M'ith causeways, runs into the interior of the city, not in a 
direct line, but in a winding course, and varying considerably 
in breadth. Before entering the city, we see the tombs, ac- 
cording to the custom of the ancients, on each side of the 
road ; and, at a little distance, a country house, having a court 
ornamented with columns ; it is raised only a single story from 
the ground, beneath the level of which are found dining apart^ 
ments, and other rooms, which were used as cellars, or a» 
retreats from the heat of the weather. 

The houses of the ancients had not, in general, like ours, a 



Build'mgs of Pompeii. 27 

nliiltitude of stories, rising- one above another; they were 
unacquainted with those long suites of apartments which 
luxury and wealth have since introduced. The rooms are small, 
without any communication between themselves, and often only 
lighted by the door. They all opened into a portico, something 
similar to the cloisters of a convent, which surrounded a small 
court where the air was refreshed by a little fountain. The 
upper story was lighted by a few narrow windows; those 
which opened on the street were situated like the windows of 
the Turks, about six feet from the ground, and w^ere closed by 
leaves of talc, by plates of alabaster, and sometimes by little 
squares of unpolished glass ; this construction prevented the 
inhabitants from seeing what passed out of doors, and also pro- 
tected them from the impertinent inspection of others. Timber 
wood was I'arely used in the construction of these houses, and 
its place was supplied by arches ; and, in general, the roofs 
terminated in terraces. The floors were inlaid with Mosaic 
work, and the external walls were covered with paintings, 
worked on beautiful stucco. 

In visiting Pompeii, a striking resemblance is found between 
its buildings and those of the Levant, and particularly of the 
modern Greeks. We find there those low seats running round 
the apartments, on which the inhabitants, no doubt, reposed, 
as in Turkey, on cushions, carpets, and pillows. These seats 
are raised about a foot from the floor, which prove pretty 
clearly that the ancients sat in the oriental mode, a fact which 
is further supported by the seats in the theatres. We also find 
in the Levant, marble pavements, Mosaic works, paintings on 
the walls, fountains in the courts, and even in the interior 
apartments, Avindows removed from sight; rooms lighted only 
by the door opening into covered galleries supported by 
columns. The vaj)our-baths of the orientals; their painted, 
gilt, and sculptured tombs ; their sepulchral edifices, situated 
at the gates of the city, at the side of the high roads, and sur- 
rounded with public walks; the same arrangement of the 
shops ; the foot-paths raised in front of the houses, and along 
the roads : all these customs of the Levant are founded on 
antique usages. The resemblance is such, that these ruins 
appeared to me the remains of a Turkish city, with the ex- 
ception of the architectural style of the public buildings ; and 
if it had been inhabited by Orientals, I should have conceived 
it to have been built by them. In fact, a tolerably correct idea 
of the manners of the Romans may be formed amongst the 
Turks; while many vestiges of their arts are to be found in 
the Museum of Portici. 

Amongst the buildings of Portici, one obsen-ation struck m^ 

E 2 



23 ' Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

with astonishment, — the extraordinary diminutiveness of their' 
proportions. The houses, the streets, the squares, of this city, 
seem to have been constructed for a race of pigmies. The 
principal street is only twelve feet v/ide ; the others eight or 
ten. The lateral gates of the city are only four feet wide ; 
some rooms are only six feet square. The walls of the town 
are only twenty-five or thirty feet in height, and the steps which 
lead to the ramparts will not admit two persons abreast. 

This circumstance presents a striking contrast with the 
other antiquities of Italy, and particularly of Sicily; where we 
find colossal temples, with columns so enormous that a man 
can readily stand in one of their flutings, which are not less 
than eighteen inches wide. How can we reconcile the pro- 
portions of this minute city with the accounts of historians, 
which are calculated to aggrandize the works, and even the 
personal stature of the ancients ? 

Even in Rome itself, notwithstanding its immense extent^ 
the common citizens occupied but little space. The houses of 
individuals must have been as confined as those of Pompeii, if 
we take into consideration, that half of the city was occupied 
by the immense palaces of the emperors, which alone were 
equal to small cities; by the circuses, the theatres, and an 
immense number of temples, chapels, baths, and gardens. It 
is true, that the Roman people spent the day in the open air, 
or in the public establishments, and therefore only stood in 
need of a small habitation to shelter them during the night. 

It presents, in fact, a singular spectacle, when we behold 
this city, of so remote an origin, and discover in it the traces 
of those antique manners which the classical authors can only 
imperfectly display. The structures of the town, though some- 
what injured in the higher stories, were, Avhen discovered, 
perfect in other respects. The statues, the Mosaics, and even 
the pictures, preserved all their freshness; every article of fin*- 
liiture, every household utensil, remained in the spot which 
they had occupied sixteen centuries before; bread, wheat, 
fruits, although dried up, or slightly burnt, might still be 
recognised; and, above all, several bodies of the inhabitants 
were discovered in the attitudes and dress in which they had 
been surprized by death : some in the act of flying with their 
most precious jewels, or concealed in remote retreats ; and 
others surprized at table, or stifled in the bath. 



Terracina: 29 



LETTER V. 



Departure from Naples — Terracina — Temple of Jupiter Anxuris 
— Description of the Pontine Marshes — Arrival at Rome — First 
View of that City — Visit to Tivoli — Celebrated Men — Temple 
of the Sibyl — Scenery around Tivoli — Grotto of ISeptune 
— Dreadful accident. 

Notwithstanding my desire to depart, I felt consider- 
able pain on leaving Naples ; my former companion was com- 
pelled to reside some time longer in that city, and my new 
fellow-traveller did not seem inclined to waste his thouglits in 
melancholy meditations. He was a young Roman who had 
been finishing his education at Naples, and who was impatient 
to return to his family to display the extent of his acquisitions. 
His memory certainly was well stored with an abundance of 
quotations and anecdotes which rendered his conversation veiy 
interesting. As we passed Gaeta he mentioned the Cecubian 
wines celebrated by Horace; at Capua he gave us the history 
of its destructive pleasures ; here was Formianum, the favourite 
retreat of Cicero, and at this turn in the road he was perfi- 
diously assassinated. In spite of my friend's entertaining ex- 
ertions, I could not prevent myself from falling to sleep : my 
pitiless companion then raised his voice that he might converse 
with the postillion, but receiving no reply he consoled himself 
with singing a canzonetta. He wakened me to join in the 
chorus, in which our post-boy sung the base. 

The appearance of the rocks of Terracina excited my curiosity 
and the loquacity of my companion. " It is," said he, " the 
Anxur of the ancients, the capital of the Volsci :" and he then 
related its ancient history. From the summit of Mount aan- 
Angelo, and near the monastry of that name, are the ruins of 
some vast edifices attributed to Theodoric. After draining the 
Pontine marshes, and building Terracina, the sovereign of the 
Goths, stmck with the beauty of the prospect, from these 
heights, built a magnificent palace here, and surrounded the 
city with walls and strong towers, many of which are still 
visible ; but death surprised him ere he had completed his 
splendid undertaking. The remains also of a temple of Jupiter 



30 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

Anxuris are seen here. Under the ruins there is an excavatiori 
opening towards the south. It is the work of nature, if we may- 
judge from the stalactites which hang from the vaulted roof 
and cover the walls. On penetrating into the inner cavities 
of this grotto it is said the sound of winds and the dashing of 
waves is heard. It is thought that this cavern served as a retreat 
to some of the primitive Christians, who fled from persecution, 
to practice in this solitude their mysterious ceremonies. But 
the sulphureous waters, which rush forth from many parts of 
the rock, render it probable that it was formerly used as a bath ; 
and some remains, such as were used as ornaments in the halls 
of baths being found here, strengthen this conjecture. 

The pyramidal rock of Terracina, called Pesculo, or Pescio 
Montano, was formerly crowned with a strong fortress, which 
commanded the passage to Campania, and could have defended 
it against a numerous army. The rock is isolated on three 
sides, and is joined to the mountain by its base. It seems 
worked with the chissel, like a wall, to the height of upwards 
of two hundred feet. 

After visiting all the curiosities of Terracina, I resolved to 
examine the famous Pontine marshes which extend nearly to 
the gates of that city. I took a guide, and our route lay over 
the summits of the mountains by the ancient road of Piperno, 
then descending into the marshes, traveising them sometimes 
in asandalo, a flat and very light sort of boat, and sometimes 
meeting with dry and solid ground. My companion, who was 
to meet me at Cisterna the following day, filled my pockets 
with garlic, and furnished me with a flask of a certain liquor 
to defend me from the influence of the aria cattiva. 

The Pontine marshes occupy a plain of twenty miles in 
length and ten miles in breadth, bordered on one side by the 
Appennines, and on the other by a chain of hills which run 
from Mount Circello, and separate the marshes into many little 
lakes, which appear to be formed by the waters of the sea. 
Between Mount Circello and Terracina the stagnant waters 
extend as far as the sea, into which the superfluous waters pour ■ 
themselves. The portion of the Roman territoiy which the'l 
marshes occupy, was formerly so fertile that it was called'^* 
Feronia, from a temple of that goddess, the patroness of vegeta- . 
tion. In fact, in the times of the Romans, the ager Pontimis'^ 
was considered as the granary of Rome, and it was covered 
with towns and splendid edifices. Atticus, Mecaenas, and even 
Augustus retired hither to enjoy the delightful picture of 
rural pleasures and labours. The hills were crowned with 
olive tree', and their sides blushed with the clusters of the 
vine_, while the plains were intersected with streams and pond»s. 



The Pontine Marshei. ^ ' St 

Appius Claudius, when he was constructing the famous road 
whicli bears his name, and wliich passed over these marshes, 
was the first wlio raised the banks and cleansed this portion of 
the country overflowed Avith the unchecked streams. Under 
the consulate of Cornelius Cethegus the draining- was con- 
tinued, but it was not finally completed till the time of Augus- 
tus. This tract of land retained its salubrity for more than four 
centuries, till the incursion of the Barbarians, and the removal 
of the emperors. 

Under Theodoric it was again proposed to drain it, but, at the 
end of the fifth century, the plague, famine, and, above all, the 
attacks of the Barbarians, caused the enterprize to be aban- 
doned. The writers of this age speak with horror of the Pon- 
tine marshes. When the Goths were expelled from Italy the 
popes turned their attention to this undertaking ; but Boniface 
VIII. was the first who seriously applied himself to this object. 
When the apostolic chair was transferred to Avignon these 
labours languished. They were again attempted by some of 
the Pontiffs, but without success. 

It is to Pius VI. that the present improved state of these 
marshes is owing; who, after having pursued a well-advised 
plan, of which the experience of many years has proved the 
success, has changed the appearance, and even the nature of 
the place lately so frightful, and converted it into one vast 
garden. It is with pleasure no longer mingled with fear that 
the traveller proceeds through a magnificent avenue, straight, 
well-paved, and shaded with beautiful trees, and bordered by 
canals, the evaporations from which are said to be no longer 
noxious, serving merely to give freshness to the atmosphere. 

Attempts are making to lead back the inhabitants to this 
deserted spot. Along the road four post-houses are built ; 
and inns, granaries, mills, and bakehouses. There arc also 
several houses built for the workmen and the superintendants. 
In addition to these a convent and a handsome church are 
found there. The lands have been divided, and some parts let 
on long leases. Villages will shortly rise, and then this plain, 
lately so unhealthy, will form once more the granary of Rome 
and the rest of Italy. 

I rejoined my companion at Cisterna, and it was dark ere 
we reached the gates of Rome: and, on the following morning, 
my eyes opened on the ancient capital of the world. From 
my windows I could see innumerable palaces and cui)olas of 
marble, and the summit of Trajan's column. I am absolutely 
distracted ! I admire ! I compare ! I study ! — One object attracts 
in§^.and another calls off my attention; and 1 seem to wish in 



32 Castellan's Travels in Italy ^ 

one day to amass recollections to serve me the remainder of 

my life. 

What a scene for an artist ! The borders of the Tiber, the 
hills of the city, the shape of its walls, the immense heaps of 
ruins, the admirable variety of the gardens, which make you 
think you are wandering- in the country when you are 
surrounded by the walls, all furnish the painter with studies 
and picturesque subjects, and with infinite somxes of renewed 
delight. There is not a single bye-way which does not offer him 
an opportunity of exercising his pencil. Here the open gate 
of a house of ordinary pretensions displays at the bottom of 
the court a little fountain surmounted with some fragments of 
ancient sculpture, shaded by jasmine bowers ; there a flight 
of stairs open to the air, leads to the summit of a terrace 
crowned with an arbour and bordered with vases of flowers, 
Avhich the attentive hand of a young girl nurtures and cul- 
tivates : farther on the fragments of an aqueduct serve as a 
frame to the rich perspective. On one side a rude cabin, 
inhabited by an hermit, stands against an ancient palace of 
marble, of which there is nothing left but the front of a hollow 
wall, the unequal summit of which is decked with wall- 
flowers. Everywhere the new city rises on the ruins of the 
ancient kingdom of the Caesars, while the magnificent marbles 
which form the modern tombs were fashioned for the city of 
Augustus or of Adrian. 

It is this fortuitous mixture of distinct elements which gives 
Rome such charms ; — it is the ideas which rise on surveying 
them, and the deep train of feeling which they occasion, that 
render this place so attractive in the eyes of the artist, and 
make him regret that he cannot consecrate his life to behold- 
ing it. 

1 pass my time in wandering about without design or deter- 
minate object; and if I have not yet seen the museums and the 
more precious monuments of art, at least I have caught the 
picturesque and moral character of Rome. I have become 
familiar with the inhabitants, and with the topography of their 
city. My portfolio is full of sketches, and my memory of 
delightful recollections. 

I resolved to visit Tivoli before winter made any further ad- 
vances. Leaving Rome by the gate of San-Lorenzo, a little 
less than a mile off, we passed the church of the same name, 
one of the most ancient of the Christian edifices. Its character 
is simple and imposing. Constantine is generally regarded as 
the founder, but it has been successively restored by Sixtus III. 
and several of the succeeding Pontiffs. Many of the architec- 



rovfVoLjn.N^v. 




COTTAGE OI" THE SIIEJPHEKBS OF I^A fUGILlA. 




TEMPLES Ol' TESTA a:NB OF THK SI BYE, 



Arrival at Tivoli. 33 

tural parts have been borrowed from still more ancient build- 
ings. I passed over the Tiburtine road, bordered with the 
relics of innumerable tombs and temples. In the midst of 
these, quantities of cinerary urns are perpetually discovered, 
and inscriptions and other curious remains. Here stands the 
tomb of the haughty Pallas, the freed man of Claudius. Farther 
on lies the Campo Verano, beneath which are catacombs filled 
with the bones of Christian martyrs. Passing over a canal of 
the Solfatara I reached some baths called the Baths of the 
Queen ; they are probably the remains of a villa belonging to 
Regulus, a famous jurisconsult, mentioned by Pliny and Martial, 
I then arrived at the bridge of Lucano, which is terminated 
by the monument of the Plautian family, who possessed a 
superb villa at this spot : the tomb is of a circular form, resem- 
bling that of Csecilia Metella. Constructed principally of tra- 
vertine stone, it was faced with marble and ornamented with 
columns and statues. The decline of day made me hasten 
forwards to Tivoli. 

Who can sleep the first night of their arrival at Tivoli ? My 
delightful bed-chamber was close to the temple of the Sybil, or 
rather of Vesta, and in sight of a magnificent cascade. The 
stream dashes itself down, disappears, and separates into a 
thousand little currents in the subterraneous passages which 
pierce the mountain upon which this part of the city is built. 
(See Plate V.) 

The fall of the waters produces a deafening sound, sometimes 
imitating the noise of thunder, according as the sound strikes 
directly on the ear, or is dispersed by the wind. Between me 
and the cascade lay the bridge, the church, and the town; 
and the effect of the moonlight on the river which flowed round 
the town was most beautiful. 

How different was the scene when I beheld it in the morn- 
ing, yet equally delightful ! The heavens were cloudless, and 
the dashing of the cascade seemed softened, and it was mingled 
with sounds which told of the awakening of nature and of 
man. The chirping of swallows, the turning of mills, the noise 
f the horses' hoofs as they passed the bridge, the voices of the 
peasants, cloathed in their best habits and hastening to church, 
the sound of the bells floating on the air, all announced a day 
of festival. It was indeed so to me to find myself at Tivoli ! 
Nothing is pleasanter here than the perpetual chiming of the 
bells, so disagreeable in other places : it resembles in Italy a 
sort of aerial music. So well do this people, whose taste is so 
delicate in all the arts, know how to harmonize and time their 
sounds, and to produce intonations as correct as those with 
which nature has inspired their songs. 

Voyages and Travels, iVo. 5, Vol. III. F 



54 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

The ruins of the temple next drew my attention ; situated, 
like an eagle's nest, on the pinnacle of hollow rocks, and sur- 
r jiinded by precipices down which the river dashes, this edifice 
of a circular form, is built in a style of architecture singular, 
rich, and elegant : of the eighteen Corinthian columns which 
surrounded it in the form of a detached peristyle, only ten now 
remain. The light must have entered by the door or through 
an opening in the roof, for the windows appear less ancient 
than the primitive building, the origin of which is unknown. 

During the Augustan age the environs of Tivoli were the 
retreat of a crowd of celebrated men, — Virgil, Horace, Proper- 
tius, Varro, and lastly Mecaenas, the protector of letters, of 
arts, and of ail those who cultivated such pursuits with suc- 
cess, fixed their residences on the borders of the Anio. Mecae- 
nas built at Tibur a villa, or rather a city, the immense circuit 
of which is still filled with an infinite variety of beautiful 
edifices which almost seem destined for immortality. This 
wise Roman fiying the noisy pleasures of the capital preferred 
the charms of a private life to the vanity of grandeur; and re- 
jected the first offices of the state, offered to him by the most 
powerful ruler on earth, who was also his most intimate friend. 
In his Tiburtine villa Augustus frequently visited him ; and in 
the liouse of Maecenas the emperor sought consolation under 
the afflictions of sickness. 

Tucca and Varus, both poets and courtiers of Augustus, the 
intimate companions of Mecaenas, were the persons who at the 
recommendation of Virgil introduced Horace to the friendship 
of their patron. The good offices of the latter were extremely 
important to the illustrious poet, who had embraced the party 
of Brutus and Cassius, for which offence his new protector pro- 
cured him the pardon of his sovereign. 

Horace made use of his favour with these great men to re- 
establish his fortunes ; and Mecaenas gave him a small villa, 
built on the banks of the Anio. In this retreat, in the neigh- 
bourhoodc " ^^at of Catullus, freed from all his cares and in 
the enjoynvcixt of a voluptuous repose, he composed his im- 
mortal poems, and celebrated the praises of his benefactors. 

The prosperity of Tivoli decreased at the death of those 
illustrious persons who had carried glory and pleasure into this 
fortunate corner of the earth. Quintillius died the first, and 
the prince of lyric poets wept over his death. Soon afterwards 
Virgil, seeing his end approaching, appointed Augustus, 
Mecaenas, and some of his other friends, his heirs, command- 
ing them to commit his divine poem to the flames ! Horace, 
as he seemed to have wished, preceded his protector to the 
tomb. Augustus became the possessor of the villa of Mecaenas 



Grotto of Neptune. 35 

and passed there the remainder of his days. In the temple of 
Hercules, which was in the neighbourhood of this habitation 
he administered justice to his subjects. 

The inhabitants of Tivoli deplored the death of a sovereio-n 
whose almost constant presence had been the means of carryini?- 
life, and prosperity, and riches into their city. They delighted 
to recal the memory of this prince by inscriptions on monu- 
mental stones; and they raised to Livia, his wife, a statue in the 
forum of Hercules. 

I now laid a plan for disposing of my time during my re- 
sidence at Tivoli, and I resolved on several excursions, refusing 
however, the company of a guide. The Cicerone disenchanted 
me at Naples, audi dismissed them that I might not be stunned 
by their impertinent babble, and that I might receive answers 
only when I put questions. I was just on the point of com- 
mencing my first excursion when some large drops of rain fell 
which were followed up by a long succession of showers! 
When it rains here it is in torrents. 

The Tramontana has chased away the showers, and the dry 
leaves rustle as it blows. The ground is firm again, and the 
vapours which obscured the atmosphere have disappeared and 
I can now set out on my first excursion. I hastened to the 
gate of San-Angelo through old houses built on the ruins of 
the magnificent villa of Manlius Vopiscus. There I beheld the 
road of the Cascatelles, a delightful route running along the 
crown of a hill, which extends in theshape of an amphitheatre : I 
perceived through the olives planted on the declivity, the Anio 
which winds along and dashes itself into its deep and flintv bed. 
On the other side rise immense rocks, and the temple of Vesta* 
that of the Sibyl, and a portion of the city, crown their summit. 
The most remarkable object during my excursion was the 
grotto of Neptune, which almost resembles the palace of that 
divinity. Only imagine an immense rock in which the foi-ce 
of the waters has scooped out a number of secret channels 
through which torrents burst forth to mingle in the gulph 
where their murmurs resound; they fill the atmosphere with 
their spray ; and the air is agitated by the rapidity of their 
motion. 

The sound of the falling waters, repeated by the echoes, and 
varied by the winds, produces a singular and terrible harmony, 
in the midst of which the human voice, the sound of musical 
instruments, and even the report of fire-arms can scarcely be 
distinguished, and which appears to impose silence on the rest 
of nature, that the voice of the gad of tempests may alone be 
heard. 
At the bottom of these precipices scarce any other creatures 



36 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

are seen but clouds of wild pigeons, which build their nests in 
the crevices of the rocks. Accustomed to the roaring of the 
waters they dash through the clouds of spray, sometimes dart- 
ing into the depths of the grotto, and struggling with the 
current of air which seem to whirl them along. 

On returning to the city I heard confused cries, rising above 
the voice of the elements. I quickened my steps, and at last 
distinguished, amongst others, the voice of a woman who rent 
the air with her cries. I saw the summit of the rocks lined 
with a crowd of people, running, shouting, and answering 
each other with every sign of terror and anxiety. I followed 
to the verge of a precipice hanging over the great cascade, 
and there beheld the disfigured body of a young man who had 
gone out in the morning to hunt on the steep banks of the 
river: not having re-appeared during the day, his friends, 
anxious for his safety, sought him amongst the moist and 
slippery rocks of Tivoli, which the hunters frequent, regardless 
of the danger, and they had now first discovered his body, sus- 
pended amongst the bushes which cloath the rocks of the great 
cascade. The cry of dismay spread through the valley till it 
reached the mother of the unfortunate victim. Fearful of the 
truth, she ran in agony to the borders of the precipice, and, 
hanging over it, she was only prevented by force from throw- 
ing herself forwards. In the mean time an intrepid hunter 
descended by means of ropes to the spot where his unfortunate 
companion lay — a lifeless form ! Whilst they were drawing them 
up together the friends of the miserable mother endeavoured 
to remove her from the spot ; but the convulsive movements 
which affected her increased to an alarming degree. They 
then determined to bring to her the body of her son. A heart- 
rending scene which I shall never forget ensued. After having 
bathed the corpse with tears, and loaded it with caresses ; after 
having attempted to warm it in her bosom, she was at last con- 
vinced of the reality of her misery, she passionately exclaimed, 
" He is dead ! " and fell senseless by his side. 

LETTER VI. 

The House of Catullus — Of Horace — English Caricatures — 
Temple of Tosse — Musical taste of the Italians — Description 
of the Ruins of the Villa Adriana — Rustics playing al porco — 
Return to Rome — Villas of Este and of Meccenas. 

jtVN ancient tradition says, that on this spot stood the house of 
Catullus. It is singular that the habitation of a poet like 



rov!rcim.y<;T. 




CASrATEl,]L3':S. 



House of Catullus. 37 

Catullus should have become the retreat of austerity ; but it 
may be remarked, that we ought generally to seek for the traces 
of the ancient villas on the scite of the convents. If there ex- 
isted in the middle ages any vast and magnificent, but half- 
ruined building, it was converted into a church, and its de- 
pendant buildings became the habitations of the ministers of 
religion. In examining the houses of Pompeii, or in reading 
the description of an ancient villa, we perceive the most faith- 
ful imitation of them in the modern monasteries. The courts, 
surrounded by porticoes to walk in, and from which branch the 
chambers without any other communication between them ; 
the basins which adorn them, the terraces or covered galleries, 
the oratories in the gardens, even the churcliL's with the 
chapels often built like the halls of baths, all offer striking 
analogies to the houses of the ancients. 

It is difficult to find a situation which agrees better than this 
with the idea which may be formed of the habitation of Ca- 
tullus. In digging in this enclosure very beautiful pavements 
of different coloured marbles have been found, and a column 
on which was sculptured in has relief figures of women repre- 
senting the muses, or the graces: Horace was the neighbour 
of Catullus. I arrived at the dwelling of the poet by a very 
picturesque path, shaded by olive and chesnut-trees, laurels, 
and vines. This is, no doubt, the famous Tihnrni hiculum, 
where, in the time of Pliny, three immense chesnut-trees were 
seen, older even than Tiburnus who founded the city. Here 
also rose his tomb and his temple ; for the people of Latium 
were accustomed to reckon their founders amongst the gods, 
and to raise altars to them. The house of Horace was not far 
off. I perceived through the trees a little convent, built of the 
remains of other structiu'es, in a most picturesque situation. 
I had no further to go — I stood on the lands of the friend of 
Mecaenas ! (See Plate IV.) 

But all at once I beheld a spectacle which surprised and en- 
chanted me, and even made me forget Horace, his house, and 
his verses. It yv2iS, the Cascatelles ! I had already beheld with 
a feeling amounting to solemnity this river precipitate itself 
into its deep and rocky bed; 1 now beheld it dancing in its 
course and burning in the rays of the sun, sometimes conceal- 
ing itself, then re-appearing and boimding to the bottom of the 
valley, through verdure and through flowers. {See Plate VI.) 

It is in the morning that these scenes should be visited ; 

then is the moment of inspiration and musing ! The fresh 
sensations of the mind are not then harassed by the fatigue of 
the long and laborious day 3 they have found tranquillity in the 
arms of sleep, and we hasten to enjoy, in voluptuous delirium^ 



38 Castellan's Travels in Italyi'^ 

all the faculties of the imagination. With what delight did I 
cast myself under the shade of the ancient olive-trees, which I 
was willing to think Avere planted by the hands of Horace, or 
which adorned the immense possessions of Quintilius Varus ! 

A tradition, common amongst the inhabitants of Tivoli, 
points out the foundations of the little convent of San-Antonio 
as the scite of the poet's habitation. Situated on the right bank 
of the Anio, this villa, like that of Catullus, might be called 
either Sahina, or Tiburtina, accoi'ding to what Suetonius says, 
who places it in the neighbourhood of the sacred forest of 
Tibur. Though Horace boasted of his poverty, it was only re- 
lative; he possessed a house in Rome, and rents, and stewards, 
and slaves : he did not consider himself rich, but enjoyed that 
aurea mediocritas — that happy competence equally removed 
from riches and from poverty, and he did not therefore excite the 
envy of his opulent neighbours. The steep scite which the 
house occupies proves that it was not spacious ; a garden, sus- 
tained by terraces, stretched nearly to the borders of the river^ 
and a wood of chesnut-trees, which still exist, formed a shelter 
against the burning heat of noon, and formed a Avalk which 
might be compared, said the poet, to the delicious groves of 
Tarentum. In short, this enrhanting retreat where all the 
pleasures of the country and the charms of study might be en- 
joyed in peace, might well satisfy the wishes of a heart attached 
to solitude and literature. 

From the modest retreat of Horace, 1 turned to the haughty 
habitation of Quiniilius Varus, situated in front of that of Me- 
csenas, which it seemed desirous of rivaling in magnificence ; 
this villa crowns the hill, at the foot of which runs the Teve- 
rone : on the other side, fronting the south, extend the ruins of 
the palace of Mecsenas. The waters, which add to the beauty 
of the scene, lose themselves amongst the ruins, and again 
seek the light through the crevices of the walls which they 
undermine. 

Ancient fortifications, with embattled towers, which rival 
in height the spires of Christian churches, and the edifices of 
Tivoli, are disposed with a sort of picturesque symmetry on the 
table summit of a vast acclivity, whose sides, though steep, are 
covered with verdure. On every little shelf where the industiy 
of man could convey a few baskets full of earth, are seen fniit- 
trees and vines ; even the peaks of the rocks are cloathed with 
moss and tufts of herbs, the verdure of which is nourished by 
the humid mists which perpetually surround them. The 
streams flow from all sides with more or less abundance, and 
they are converted to useful purposes in turning mills for the 
manufacture of copper, iron, and other articles, After per- 



CascatelleS'-'Englis'h Caricatures. 39 

forming these useful services they escape from the midst of 
the houses and trees, and embellish the country with the eftect 
of their innumerable falls — producing those delicious cascatelles 
which form the delight of the traveller, and the despair of the 
landscape-painter. Now they glide from rock to rock, like 
silver threads ; now they separate themselves, and shine like 
plates of metal — sometimes confined in a narrow bed they are 
covered with foam of snow-like whiteness : but how can even 
the first of the cascatelles, so abundant and so beautiful, be 
described at once ? Imagine a river springing from many 
fountains uniting itself in one bed, and dashing headlong in 
columns of unequal size, which unite as they descend, and, ere 
they reach the bottom, form a cloud of sparkling spray ; the 
waters then break upon pyramidal rocks resembling in their 
colours that beautiful mineral malachite : there the vapours, 
undergoing a metamorphosis, are converted into a liqviid state, 
and, swelling through the rocks, burst forth, and surmounting 
eveiy obstacle which opposed their course towards a less 
rugged channel, they gain their level, and, with it, their former 
transparency and beauty. 

It was late when I returned to Tivoli — my dinner was spoiled 
and my wine was flat ; but every thing appeared excellent to 
me — I had visited the cascatelles and the house of Horace ! 

The bad weather has detained me in the house ; but fortu- 
nately the situation is extremely picturesque, and furnishes me, 
without going out of doors, with numerous prospects. I also 
enjoy another source of amusement ; the walls of the rooms 
are covered with verses and sketches, the latter frequently 
the productions of good artists, who have wasted an hour or 
two in thus bestowing entertainment on succeeding travellers. 
The English artists seem to have carried the art of caricaturing 
to the highest state of perfection : one of them has lately or- 
namented the whole length of our hosts gallery with a sketch 
of the post-asses of Tivoli ; that is to say, he has represented 
all the incidents of an excursion from hence to the Villa 
Adriana. I lost much of the merit of this pleasant caricature, 
from not being acquainted with the persons (of both sexes) 
that were represented in great variety, and extremely well 
expressed; but, independent of this, the sketch of the long-eared 
coursers was most excellent, and their ridiculous positions, and 
the other laughable incidents which often take place in large 
parties, afforded me much entertainment. 

The following day the heavens grew clear, and at the break 
of day I set off with one of the sons of my host for my guide: 
on leaving the city by the Porto delle Colle there is a fine river, 
which I recommend to artists. We left on our right the 



40 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

temple of Tosse, which ivy and climbing plants covered with 
their foliage, concealing its form, and giving it the appear- 
ance of a verdant arbour; an isolated and colossal column 
marked the station of the house of MecEenas ; further on rose 
some towers ; as far as the eye extended there was a beautifiil 
mingling of gardens and houses, and ruins, shadowed with 
cypress and pine trees ; at the bottom the elevated summits of 
Monticelli, Montalbano, and San-Angelo in Capoccia, which 
form the limit of the Sabine territory, and of the Campagna of 
Rome, seem to crown the plain, through which the Anio 
winds, peaceably reposing, as it were, from the fatigues which 
it has experienced in the rocky passes of Tivoli. 

The temple of Tosse is sicuated in the garden belonging to 
the canons of the cathedral ; its form is circular, and it is in 
a good state of preservation ; in fact, it is not known to what 
divinity it was consecrated, although popular tradition has 
dedicated it to the goddess who presided over coughs. It is 
certainly true that the ancients sometimes erected altars to 
malevolent deities, to propitiate them, and to protect them- 
selves from their influence ; Cicero mentions a temple con- 
secrated to Fever ; Pliny speaks of the temples of Misfortune 
and Idleness ; perhaps, however, the etymology of this 
denomination may have arisen in another manner. The desig- 
nation of families was frequently added lo the names of divini- 
ties as Juno-Claiidia, Fortuna- J'/auia ; may not this temple 
have been dedicated to some Venus- Tossia, or Ceres- Tossia ? 
Fabretti mentions two monuments of a family of that name. 

As we proceeded on our route, we traversed woods wiiich 
shaded a soft green turf; we forded little brooks, or climbed 
small hills covered with myrtles, sage, and rosemary. The 
sun which falls direct on these unsheltered and uncultivated 
spots, almost burns them, rendering the odours of the plants 
still more strong, and drinking up their balsamic emanations, 
which rise like the incense of gratitude to the great Creator. 
I gave way to the beauty of the scene, and, plunged into con- 
templative thought, I made no answers but in monosyllables 
to my young guide; and he, on his side, withdrawing himself, 
instigated no doubt by the chaunting of the birds, began gaily 
to sing those beautiful airs which the people of this land so 
much delight in, and the melodious simplicity of which is 
truly charming. What is that natural taste which is found 
only in Italy, where eveiy simple villager, every child that 
sings is accompanied immediately by the bye-standers with 
such taste and judgment ? In joining their voices the same 
air is continued, not in the same tones, but Avith the melody 
of different parts. Whence does that tact arise, that nice and 




3ITE OI-- HOIiiCD'S HOrSiE. 



Villa Adriana, 41 

delicate perception, which enables them to catch the most 
harmonious notes, and to reject every false tone ? They know 
not the rules of music ; they are ignorant of the lowest prin- 
ciples of composition, yet they form combinations which indi- 
cate the finest skill, and seem the effect of a sort of instinct. 

Without experiencing the least fatigue from the length of 
the way, we arrived at the entrance of the ancient mansion of 
a powerful emperor. No triumphal arch, no succession of 
porticos were left — a simple and unornamented door-way, 
formed of two pilasters covered with plaster, was all that re- 
mained. As I entered the vast inclosure of the Villa Adriana, 
I found myself surrounded by heaps of ruins which astonished 
me by their immensity. 

The proud retreat of Adrian, situated about three miles from 
Tibur, towards the south-west, occupied, in a line of nearly 
three miles, a chain of hills in the midst of a winding valley, 
bounded by rocks : it was protected towards the east by high 
mountains crowned with thick forests ; and on the opposite 
side lay the numerous monuments strewed along the plain of 
Rome. In the distance the seven hills of the eternal city, 
covered with obelisks and temples, rose above the horizon, 
burning with the setting splendours of the sun. A nearer 
view of the villa discovered the edifices built on the summits 
of the hills, on their sides or at their base; some built on level 
ground, some raised on terraces, and some constructed under 
ground ; there were porticos, gymnasiums, theatres, circuses, 
stadiums, temples, and houses mingled with gardens, bowers, 
and pieces of water. This vast territory contained such a quan- 
tity of monuments, that it bade defiance to the outrages of 
time and man. 

Sallust, Horace, and Seneca, complain with reason of the 
ruinous magnificence of the villas of their time ; Adrian sur- 
passed all his predecessors, and put the world under contri- 
bution for embellishments for his Tiburtine Villa. This em- 
peror is said to have had a desire of constructing in this place, 
imitations of all the most celebrated edifices which he had 
admired in his travels, as the Lyceum, the Academy, and the 
Prytaneum of Athens. Nay, it was even said that a represen- 
tation of the infernal kingdom and the Elysian fields was to be 
seen here. One cannot doubt the truth of history, when one 
beholds these monuments. Though explored a hundred times, 
and presenting no interest but to painters and architects, yet 
the immense space which is covered, the thickness and solidity 
of the walls, the precious objects, the remains of which crowd 
every step, the very considerable number of statues, bas- 
reliefs, and inscriptions, which have been discovered in this 

Voyages and Travels, No. 5, Vol, III. G 



42 Castellan's TVareZs in Italy. 

place, and carried to Rome, to enrich the museums — all 
add to the idea which we have formed of the powerful mag- 
nificence and never-failing resources of the monarch-people. 

The principal entrance into the villa looked towards the 
bridge of Lucano, and the Tiburtine road -, a way, the re- 
mains of which are still seen, led to it : two piles of masoniy, 
distant from each other 75 feet, mark the entrance — they rise 
on the border of the road, at the entrance of the modern en- 
closure. On entering, the most remarkable object which 
presents itself is a very high wall, which overlooks the Paecile, 
a double portico of 700 feet in height, once ornamented in all 
probability with paintings, like that at Athens, and supported 
on each side by the wall we have mentioned. This building 
is so high, that it casts a shade at almost every period of the 
day. This wall was situated between two squares equally 
surrounded with porticoes ; that on the south still preserves 
the form of a parallelogram, terminated at its extremities by 
flattened arches. In the centre of this vast court there rose 
some low walls, which formerly supported a fountain, if we 
may credit those who levelled the place, in order to plant it 
with vines. 

It was in the Psecile, and in a hall which yet exists, that 
Adrian used to assemble his literary friends, and where he 
used to amuse himself in listening to, or disputing with them, 
according to the Athenian custom. The Bibliotheca, or 
Library, was not far from the Paecile — nothing remains of it 
but the wall, in which there are 25 niches. 

On a neighbouriag hill rises a magnificent theatre ; frag- 
ments of 48 statues have been discovered here ; the rising 
seats are still distinguishable, and the proscenium and some 
other parts are in good preservation : it is the same with the 
other ancient theatre, with the exception of those of Pompeii 
and Herculaneum, which are more complete. 

Turning to the south, we see the remains of the porticoes 
which led to the baths ; then we arrive at the Academy and 
the Temple of Apollo and the Muses, which was ornamented 
with columns of Parian marble ; not far from this, in the 
place in which the wild-beasts were confined, there were dis- 
covered in the pontificate of Alexander VI. the statues of the 
nine muses, which now adorn the Royal Museum of Paris. 
The neighbouring ground is covered with the ruins of the 
buildings which formed the Academy, habitations mingled 
with gardens and fountains formed by conducting thither the 
waters of the IVIarcia and the Anio : from this point extends a 
portico, which led to that part of the villa called the Lyceum — 



Villa Adnana, 43 

a building dedicated to philosophical studies, where a group 
of Pan and Syrinx was discovered. 

After having traversed the foundation of an exedrum and of 
the baths, the traveller arrives at the Canopiis, one of the 
most beautiful ornaments of the place ; here part of the valley 
had been shaped so as to contain a vast sheet of water, where 
imitations of naval combats were represented : at one of the 
extremities lie the ruins of a temple in the form of a shell, 
which was dedicated to Neptune, who was called Canopus by 
the Egyptians. Here also the statue of a sea-horse, one of the 
attributes of that deity was discovered ; and also a consider- 
able quantity of figures of Egyptian divinities, which were 
conveyed to the Museum of the Vatican, and deposited in the 
hall called on that account Canopus. In proceeding towards 
the east the traveller enters another valley, which is supj^osed 
by antiquarians to have been fashioned into a model of the 
delicious bowers of Tempe and the Elysian fields, and in which 
was the entrance to the infernal regions. 

It appears to me that the excavations ornamented with 
sculptures and paintings, and in which mysteries, so terrifying 
to the uninitiated, were celebrated, were formed from the 
quarries, Avhence the immense piles of materials used in the 
construction of this villa were drawn; the entrances are 
through three apertures, which, in the opinion of Pirro Li- 
gorio, mark the avenues of the three-quarters of the worlds — 
Asia towards the East, Africa towards the west, and Europe 
towards the north : long corridors, forming a labyrinth, led 
to an immense cavern filled with water, where the thrones 
and tribunals of the infernal deities were seen. The Crypto 
Porticus was a grotto formed in the rock. {See Plate IX.) 

Towards the south, and at the extremity of the villa, ex- 
tends the rest of the Prytaneum ; it was composed of vast 
piles of building, where the emperor lodged the sick soldiers, 
his ancient companions in arms. Here were the granaries, 
the cellars, and innumerable other magazines for all sorts of 
provisions. Both in the environs, and in the centre of the 
beautiful gardens, rose the monuments of the illustrious persons 
who died in the villa. Many cinerary urns have been disco- 
vered. With the exceptions above mentioned, the villa only 
presents amass of ruins. In the time, indeed, of Pirro Ligorio, 
many other buildings were standing; this was about the 
year 1550. 

I quitted these interesting scenes, and hastened towards 
Rome. On my return from the villa, I passed a crowd from 
which loud laughs proceeded, and cries of bravo. I enquired 
the reason, and found that they were engaged in the game 



44 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

al porco, or of pigs. Popular amusements generally resemble 
one another, although they vary iiccording to the country, and 
the manners and character of the inhabitants. There are some 
games which, though cruel and sanguinary, are tolerated only 
on account of the address and courage which they require. It 
is in the nature of man to prefer games in which some personal 
danger is mingled. But it is shameful for man to amuse him- 
self with the sufferings of harmless animals, frequently of a 
timid and peaceable nature, in cold blood; and without danger 
to himself exciting them to fight and mutilate one another, 
and then enjoying their agony. 

The game which I have just mentioned is of the latter spe- 
cies, though scarcely more ridiculous than cruel ; and it is not 
without risk to those who engage in it. A pig is the subject 
ahd the victim of the entertainment. This animal is adorned 
with ribbands and painted with various colours, and a bell is 
hung round its neck. The object of the game is to pursue and 
catch him ; and this is very difficult for the performers, since 
they can neither see nor walk. Each of them in fact, is tied 
up in a sack of thick sail cloth, which is tied together at the 
top, so as to protect the person inside from the effect of blows. 
Two apertures are left for the arms, which are left completely 
at liberty. Muffled up in this strange manner, the hunters are 
placed in a ring, at some distance from one another, and are 
armed with sticTvs, ready, when the pig is let loose, to com- 
mence the attack. As soon as the ringing of the bell betrays 
the situation of their prey, and warns them of its approach, 
they all begin to leap forwards, for, as they cannot walk, they 
are obliged to use this motion. The slightest obstacle, and 
the least shock, trip them up ; much of the sport consists in 
their endeavours to overthrow one another. The terrified 
animal, scared by the cries of the crowd, runs awkwardly 
about, endeavouring to escape from its enemies. It flies from 
one and meets with another, running against him and knocking 
him down; — then it makes a new attempt to pierce the crowd 
of spectators, which drives it back into the circle, beneath the 
sticks of its pursuers : at the sound of the bell, the weapons 
again descend, frequently on the shoulders of the other com- 
batants. The animal becomes the property of him who seizes 
or disables it. The conqueror generally invites his companions 
to feast on the fruits of his triumph. 

In re-entering this city, two objects of great interest, and 
which form good proofs of the taste both of the ancients and 
moderns, the villas of Mecsenas and Este, (See plate VIII.) claim 
from the traveller a more than ordinary attention. It is neces- 
saiy to call up every power of the judgment and Imagination, 



Villas of Meceends and Este. * 45 

to form an accurate idea of the former. The latter, better 
preserved, is yet nothing more than the shadow, as it were, 
of what it was in the time when this family, now extinct, 
flourished — a family which has gained an immortal name in 
the verses of Ariosto. The long terraces, the elegant porticoes, 
the refreshing grottoes, are solitary and silent. The stillness 
of the gardens is only broken by the rustUng of the leaves ; 
and the light murmurs of the waters, which, formerly subjected 
to the tortures of art, rose in jets, or fell in cascades, upon beds 
of madrepore, of mother-of-pearl, and of shells. Now, aban- 
doned to the beautiful wildness of nature, they wind through 
the unequal plain, or amidst the trees, to the beds which they 
have formed for themselves in the hollows of the valley. The 
luxury of Nature has replaced the haughty vanity of the former 
proprietors. Whilst the marbles are sinking in decay, the 
enormous cypresses which adorn the garden continue to in- 
crease, till their lofty heads seem searching in the clouds the 
bolt which has often blasted their form and their beauty. 
Time, the great vanquisher, has already begun to leave in these 
places the traces of his power, which are so cruelly visible in 
the villa of Mecsenas. 

Mecsenas knew how to make a noble and generous use of 
life and riches. The Society which he enjoyed, composed of 
Augustus, of Horace, and of Virgil, and indeed of all the most 
celebrated men of his time, rendered his life truly pleasing to 
him. The beauty of the situation of this villa, the variety of 
vast and splendid edifices, the refined distribution of the 
interior apartments, and the objects of curiosity which were 
collected in this place, attracted hither all the luxurious in- 
habitants of Rome. The grandeur of style observable in these 
ruins, and their vastness, recal the memory of their former 
greatness, and excite sentiments of a(kniration for them, even 
in their present state of decay. 

They were described by Pirro Ligorio, at a time when they 
existed in a more perfect state. But the many vicissitudes 
which this edifice, dedicated to delight, has suffered in the 
lapse of ages, have despoiled it of the most of its beauties. 
Scarcely a trace remains of the paintings, and the sculptured 
ornaments have all disappeared. How different now is this 
habitation from what it was when the minister and favourite 
of Augustus fled to this retreat, in search of that repose and 
slumber which so obstinately refused to shed its influence on 
his eye-lids. Yet the murmurs of the waters, which as they 
flowed, refreshed the delightful sojourn, and fell from various 
cascades ; musicians placed at a certain distance from the bed- 
chamber, so that the harmonious sounds of instruments and 



46 Casiellan*s Travels in Italy. 

voices, bore only to the ear murmurs which invited to sleep ; 
all the resources which riches can lavish on their master, could 
not calm the trouble of his soul and the inquietude of his spirit. 
The very appearance of these ruins tells their ancient mag- 
nificence. They rose pile above pile in retreating grandeur, 
and the loftier buildings were reached by means of flights of 
stejjs ornamented with grottos, from whence flowed fountains 
of waters. The peculiar residence of Mecsenas, surrounded 
with innumerable porticoes and gardens, like a high tower, 
commanded a view of all the town of Tibur and its environs, 
and could easily be perceived by the inhabitants of Rome: 
and even at this day, when we see, rising from the green sum- 
mits of the rocks which impend above the stream, two pro- 
digious ranges of arcades, built in a noble and impressive style 
of architecture, we are struck with admiration of this edifice, 
one of the most extraordinary relics of an age fertile in the 
productions of genius and splendour. 



LETTER VII. 



St. Peter's — View of the Pontiff— History of Mosaic Painting — 
Villas of the Italians — their Gardens — the Villa Borghese. 

1.T is impossible to enter the cathedral of St. Peter without 
experiencing a sentiment of respect which produces awe and 
silence. This is, in fact, the first and most celebrated temple 
in Christendom. It is the sanctuary of devotion, the scene of 
the most solemn ceremonies. As I slowly gazed on the details 
of this vast edifice,and as my thoughts were employed with equal 
surprize and admiration on the astonishing objects which envi- 
roned me, my attention was attracted by a scene, most simple, 
yet most impressive, the lively memory of which brings it now 
before my eyes. 1 saw, slowly advancing in tlie midst of a 
crowd which fell prostrate at his feet, a venerable old man. 
His finely shaped head was covered with white locks, and 
kindness and calmness were expressed in his countenance. I 
beheld the floating of his long white robe, and, though devoid 
of every ornament, I recognized the sovereign Pontiff". The 
deepest silence reigned around him. — Advancing alone to the 
middle of the nave, he knelt down — and, prostrate on the 
marble pavement, he humiliated himself before the sanctuaiy, 
contbuuded and mingled with the other worshippers, I have 



St. Peter' s^View of the Pontiff. 47 

since seen him under a magnificent canopy, crowned with the 
triple tiara, and environed with all tlie pomp of sovereignty : 
but to me lie appeared far more great when, lonely, bending 
over a tomb, and plunged in deep meditation, he prayed for 
the peace and safety of the human race. His humility elevated 
him in my eyes: he then appeared a worthy successor of 
St. Peter, a fit pastor for the Christian world — his lowly atti- 
tude inspired more respect in my bosom than if I had seen him 
officiating at the most gorgeous ceremonies. 

A picture of another kind, yet no less interesting to me, now 
engaged my attention — the sublime representation of the trans- 
figuration of Christ. I know not whether it was accident, or 
the consequence of the ingenious mode in which this Mosaic 
was placed, — but a sunbeam shed its light on the Glory, while 
the rest of the composition was in a soft and harmonious demi- 
tint. The appearance of this inimitable painting, for it must 
be called so; the sanctity of the place; the religious silence, 
succeeded by the swell of harmonious voices which rolled along 
the vaulted roofs ; the whole scene ended so truly imposing, 
left such traces in my mind, that I doubt whether the sublime 
original* could give rise to similar sensations. 

Some observations on the art of Mosaic painting will not be 
impertinent in this place. This art, which consists in uniting 
small pieces of various coloured marbles, so as the surface may 
have the effect of a painting, was discovered by an artist, whose 
industry Pliny qualifies with the term of importunum ingenium. 
The invention is most probably due to the Persians, from whom 
it passed to the Assyrians, and thence to the Greeks ; it was 
not practised at Rome till the later years of the republic, when 
works of this kind were introduced from Persia, Numidia, 
Phrygia, and Egypt, and raised amongst the Romans a desire 
of imitation. Accordingly, marbles were collected from various 
countries, and a school of Greek artists established at Rome. 
The art was at length gradually naturalized in that city, and 
was carried to great perfection under the emperor Adrian, who 
was much attached to it; and the relics of Mosaics, which 
have been found in our time in the villa of that emperor, do 
not behe the pompous descriptions which Statins has left us. 

The art continued in great estpem during the two first ages 
of the empire ; but under Septimus Severus, with the other 
arts, it also began to decline. Still, in Italy, they worked in 
Mosaic under Gallienus, Aurelian, and their successors. The 
Goths, who sometimes imitated the Romans in their protection 
of the fine arts, professed some esteem for Mosaic painting; 

* This picture had been can:ied to Paris. The copy is in Mosaic work. 



48 '. Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

and Theocloric, when he became King of Italy, caused a pave- 
ment to be worked at Santa Maria, in Cosmediyi, at Ravenna. 
The Goths seem to me to have been unreasonably accused of 
destroying- the monuments of art : that destruction should be 
attributed to other causes ; but a dissertation on this subject 
would detain me too long. 

In the sixth century the working in Mosaic was much prac- 
tised at Constantinople, and was patronized by Justinian. By 
the orders of that prince, the dome of St. Sophia was orna- 
mented with paintings of this kind, which were rather distin- 
guished for the selection and richness of the materials, than 
for the purity of the design. It was at this period that the 
custom of executing paintings and Mosaics on a gold ground 
was introduced, a custom continued to our days in the churches 
of the modern Greeks. From the seventh to the tenth century, 
the art of Mosaic painting was promoted by various pontiffs; 
but, at the latter period, this, with the other arts, suffered so 
much neglect, that the abbot of Monte Cassino, wishing to 
have some designs executed in it, was compelled to procure 
artists from Constantinople. From this period, few Mosaics 
were painted in Italy till the fourteenth century, when Venice 
became the true school of the art. Andrea Tafi, a Florentine, 
having been instructed by Apollonius, a Greek, established a 
school for Mosaic painting in Florence, in which Gaddo Gaddi^ 
Vicino de Pisa, and many others were instructed. 

This art was in great request at Rome, under the pontificate 
of Benedict XII. ; and to the talents of Giotto, aided by Simone 
Memmi, and by Piero Cavallini, we owe the celebrated picture 
of the bark of St. Peter agitated by the waves. Towards the 
end of the fifteenth century, Ghirlandajo completed, at Flo- 
rence, a magnificent Mosaic, composed of cubical pieces of 
stained glass, which procured him much fame. As design 
grew more perfect, the works in Mosaic became less stiff in 
their contour, and the colouring was better understood. Titian 
perfected the art, when he had the direction of the decoration 
of St. Mark's, by causing imitations in Mosaic of his own im- 
mortal paintings to be executed. Under Clement VIII. it was 
determined to ornament the church of St. Peter with paintings; 
and, in consequence of the humidity of the place. Mosaics were 
preferred ; the ablest artists were engaged Cigoli, Passignano, 
Vanni, &c. It is impossible in this place to give a detailed 
account of these productions : it may be sufficient to say, that 
some of the finest works of Domenichino, Guercino, and Pous- 
sin, were imitated in the most durable materials. The Trans- 
figuration, after Raffaelle, executed by the orders Clement XII. 
is one of the most perfect specimens of the modern school of 
Mosaic painting. 



Mosaic Painting, 49 

We shall now give a succinct idea of the mechanical part of 
this art as it is practised at Rome. The fragments of marble, 
coloured glass, or stones, which are made use of, vary in size. 
They are square, triangular, or lozenge-shaped ; or, rather, 
they take every angular form which allows of their suiting the 
purposes of the artist in the contour of design, and at the same 
time enables him to join them without leaving the least 
interval. There are various ways of shaj)ing these fragments; 
and, after they are cut into prisms or cubes, they are disposed 
in order, according to the diiferent shades of colour. The 
artist then selects as many of these as he imagines will furnish 
him with a day's work ; and he prepares a ground of plaster, 
formed of chalk and marble powder mixed with gum-adragant 
and the white of eggs. The stucco thus prepared is spread 
very thick on the walls, where it remains fresh and moist, 
sometimes for three or four days; and it is occasionally 
moistened with damp linen. The artist chalks on this plaster 
the outline of his design after his sketch, then with a pair of 
fine pincers he takes the small squares of glass and inserts them 
in the stucco, arranging them one after another so as to give 
the lights and shades and the various tints. In this he follows 
the design which he has under his eye, taking care to leave no 
opening between the pieces, and placing them all equal and 
at the same height. At length, by continuing this process, and 
polishing the surface with very fine sand and water, the artist 
completes his labours. 

As my object is peculiarly to recommend the application of 
Mosaic work to splendid and magnificent subjects of decoration, 
I shall only add, that the moderns appear to have surpassed 
the ancients in this art, at least in the immense proportion of 
some of their works. There is no ancient monument of this 
kind which can be compared in richness to the church of 
St. Peter, where twelve or fifteen of these large comj)ositions 
which I have mentioned may be seen. The vast cupola and 
the lantern are also magnificently ornamented with Mosaics. 

There is also another process, derived, no doubt, from the 
same idea of durability; the origin and history of which are 
curious and little known. I mean the terra invetriata awl the 
majolica^ which have given I'ise to the painting on enamel and 
porcelain, and perhaps also to the staining of glass. But 
enough at present of the arts. 

Rome presents so many interesting objects to the traveller, 
that an age would be necessary to see and describe them. The 
Vatican alone would fill volumes. I find myself unable to dwell 
for a long time together on the same object. Notw ii- 
standiug \vinter, the country offers many charms ; and tl te 

Voyages and Travels, No, 5, Vol. III. H 



5Q Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

are most delightful when, surrounded by hills whose summits 
are white with snows, we breathe all the sweetness of the 
spring-tide ; and, though the verdure be less fresh than at that 
beautiful season, we scarce lack anything of the charms of the 

country. 

Yet ' it was with regret that I turned from the magnificent 
galleries, even though it was to wander in the laurel shades of 
the Villa Medicis, or under the verdant chesnut trees and pines 
of the Boro-hese garden?. These delicious spots where Nature 
and Art have united to produce beauty, are my delight. — There 
I read I draw, and I meditate; and, although alone, [ am 
never tired of my occupation. — There I never experience 
either the wild elevation of joy, nor the dejection of deep sor- 
row ; but that peaceable contentment of soul, arising from the 
calmness of the passions, and the absence of worldly business, 
which permits me to give myself up to the sweet and tranquil 
pleasures which a liberal cultivation of the arts induces. 

The name of Villa, which the French, by a periphrasis, trans- 
late maison de plaisance, awakens in the mind ideas of peace, 
grandeur, prosperity, and pleasure. In fact, these little palaces, 
built in picturesque situations, can only be inhabited with ease 
and security in nations where the country is peaceable and 
the towns flourishing. Thus amongst the ancient Greeks, who 
were always at war with one another, and perpetually menaced 
with foreign incursions, the husbandmen were forced to shut 
themselves up in the cities, seeking within their walls a shelter 
for their fortunes, their liberty, and their lives, and edifices of 
this kind werejcompletely unknown. It was the same among the 
Romans, till the time of Augustus, when that powerfid people 
had repelled the waves of war from their shores. Then the 
plain of Rome, the borders of Campania, and the margins of 
the lakes of Lombardy, became covered with those charming 
habitations which, for a jjart of the year, aftbrded a retreat to 
the illustrious Romans. This luxury was carried to such an 
excess, that the Ciceros, the Mecsenases, and the Plinies, could 
travel over almost the whole of Italy, from the capital to the 
confines of Apulia, without, as it were, quitting their own pro- 
perty ; for, during the whole route, they rested at their own 
villas or houses, which supplied them and their suite, 
frequently very numerous, with every thing which was either 
necessary or agreeable. In fact, these journeys, where every 
thing which pride or luxury could require was found, were 
converted into parties of pleasure. 

Amongst the moderns none but sovereigns can travel in this 
; le. One is surprised to think how a simple Roman knight 
rpassed in this respect some of the greatest monarchs of 
ntiquity, and even many of the sovereigns of our o\vn day. 



Italian Gardens. 81 

The wars, of which Italy became the theatre, during- the 
convulsions of the Lower Emph-e, soon swept away these de- 
licious villas of which scarce anything but disfigured ruins 
remained; and it was not till the epoch of the restoration of 
the arts and of peace that great men began to imitate in the 
disposition of their villas the example of the ancients. In this 
the French were very late, and it was not till the age of 
Louis XIV. that we saw any royal edifices, or castles, worthy 
of the name. 

The villas of the Italians have served as a model for all 
Europe. Celebrated by poets, and admired by travellers, they 
well deserve a faithful graphic representation: and yet to this 
day there is scarcely a single work which gives a tolerable idea 
of these edifices. 

Disposed in the best manner for effect, the builders have 
taken advantage, with admirable address, of the nature of the 
situation, and the position in which frequently they have been 
obhged to build; their gardens, above all, have a fairy- like 
appearance which is rarely found elsewhere, and which re- 
sults less fi-om the wildness v/ith which they affect to imitate 
nature, than from a sort of regularity which harmonises with 
the decorations and the architectural effect. The gardens of 
the Tuilleries perhaps convey the best idea of their Italian 
prototypes. 

It may perhaps appear extraordinary, that, in a country 
which naturally presents svich a variety of beautiful walks, 
the forms of regular gardens should have been adopted ; but 
this surprise will probably cease when we reflect, that all 
these natural beauties are the property of every peasant who 
can feast his eyes on the variety of woods, and hills, and 
brooks, and cottages, and ruins, which form the elements of 
English gardening. But this prospect, which is so common 
in Italy, on that very account possesses no attractions for the 
great and the rich ; they esteem it necessaiy that nature 
should present to their eyes a new, an imposing, and a singular 
appearance. Thus they plant in lines, and trail their trees 
in a thousand different forms; they imprison their streams 
in narrow channels, force them to spout into the air, and to 
fall down precipices in symmetric cascades. 

In this the modern Italians only follow the example of their 
ancestors ; the art was restored by the Medici, as favourable 
to the decoration of the brilliant fetes with which they wished 
to amuse their fellow-citizens; in their sumpcuous gardens 
nature was subjected to the rules of art ; the brilliant fictions 
of the poets were realised, and every sense, flattered and de- 
lighted, held the imagination in continued enchantment. 



52 Castellan's Travels in Italy > 

It may be objected, it is true, that all these effects are false 
and that nature here is entirely factitious; that the long 
wedge-shaped alleys, the forced fountains, the well-assorted 
flowers enclosed in regular compartments, and all these ob- 
jects so symmetrically repeated, only fatigue by their length, 
and speak little to the mind, and still less to the heart ; but, 
in fact, the only object is to amuse the senses, to excite asto- 
nii^hment and admiration, and to make a royal habitation har- 
monize with the pomp and splendour of a court; and this is 
besides the true mode of laying out a public garden, where 
people walk less for the sake of solitude, than for the purpose 
of meeting pleasing society, and where it is so frequently the 
object of every one to shine. 

The citizen, to be sure, fatigued with town-pleasures, may 
convert his little garden to the English model ; he may make 
mountains scarce comparable to American ant-hills; vallies a 
few feet long; and he may now and then pump a respectable 
stream which shall fio%y a full quarter of an hour. 

The passionate lovers of the true beauties of nature, will 
pardon these observations on the contemptible imitations 
which outrage their model, and will prefer in many situations 
the monotonous uniformity of our old French gardens, to 
those which are laid out in what is called the English 
style ; it is true, that very regular plantations are far from 
pleasing ; the Italians have perceived this, and they have 
stopped at a point Avhen the deformity becomes monstrous. 
It is a correct remark, that the gardens of Italy present all 
the variety and picturesque efiect of modern gardens, without 
any of their monotony or puerile simplicity ; they are planted 
regularly round the houses, and, by a skilfully managed pro- 
gression as they recede, they mingle with the sylvan appear- 
ance of the country ; they do not, as amongst us, endeavour 
to make a fine situation of a garden ; but they make the gar- 
den in a fine situation ; art follows nature, and does not strive 
to create it ; even in the least thing, the traces of genius, the 
refinement «f good taste, and the decorum of art, are percep- 
tible in this country. Frequently we see architecture, sculp- 
ture, and painting, all directed by one mind, often executed 
by the same hand, concurring to produce a general effect, and 
by their perfect harmony a most delightful agreement of parts. 
In fact, these gardens give the best idea of the boasted villas 
of the ancients, and nothing probably better resembles the 
habitations of LucuUus, the gardens of Sallust, and the re- 
treats of Cicero and of Pliny, than the Ville Aibani, Panfili, 
Aldobrandini. and Borghese ; the latter more especially, which 
is the constaat boundary of my walks, well supplies the place 



Italian Gardens. 53 

of the villa of Porapey the Great, which was situated in this 
place, and which that celebrated general bought in the year 
of Rome 692, under the name of his freedman Demetrius 
Liberius, with the produce of the riches which he had ac- 
quired in his wars with the Armenians, the Parthians, and the 
Assyrians, and in his triumph over Mithridates. 

This vast piece of land, which extended over all Mount Pin- 
cius, contained large gardens of unequal ground, ornamented 
with fountains and other superb buildings : though now of 
less extent, it contains nearly as many objects of curiosity as 
formerly. The mode in which they are distributed is full of 
taste, and might serve for a model. 

The inequality of the land is taken advantage of in order 
to produce the most extraordinary effects, one of which sur- 
prises the beholder the more as it is rarely met with ; it is a 
lake suspended, as it were, on the summit of a mountain : the 
waters are carried there at a great expense, but then they 
give life to these beautiful gardens. They rush from the top of 
a rock filling the urns of many sculptured nymphs, and at 
last, flowing round a temple consecrated to Esculapius, this 
irregular lake is surrounded by magnificent trees, such as 
chesnut trees, laurels, weeping-willows, and also with fragrant 
shrubs, the trembling and dome-shaped foliage of which is 
reflected in the waters which it darkens. 

During those beautiful nights, the calmness and freshness of 
which are so much prized in Italy, this temple and these 
cascades are sometimes illuminated in an ingenious and pleas- 
ing manner. Elegant boats shoot along the boj'ders of the 
lake, or linger under the flowery bowers ; bands of musicians, 
distributed here and there, make the scene echo with the sub- 
lime notes of Paesiello and of Cimorosa, while select com- 
panies wander amid the enchanting arbours, or form them- 
selves into parties for dancing. 

These beautiful gardens in every part offer some object of 
interest ; little edifices appropriated to various uses are scat- 
tered throughout — here rises a chapel in the middle of a 
quincunx ; there extend the ruins of a Grecian temple sur- 
rounded with laurels ; farther on there rose a vast Hippodrome, 
used for equestrian exercises and races. In a retired valley, 
the arid sides of which are covered with immense pines, an 
old embattled castle bursts upon the view, and herds of deer 
may be seen wandering along the sylvan shades ; fragments 
of antiquity, statues, monuments, and bas-reliefs, which have 
not been fortunate enough to find a place in the palace, nor 
in the museum which has been recently constructed, are 
tastefully distributed along the walls, along the paths, and in 
the arbours. 



54 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

The Princes of Italy do indeed thus make a noble use of 
their riches; in other respects they live in a veiy simple 
manner, and they seem only to exist for the arts ; in labouring 
for them they effectually extend the glory of their country, 
and contribute to render it worthy the homage of men of 
taste of every country. 



LETTER VIII. 



Journey from Rome to Florence — Remarks on the two cities — 
TJie Carnival — The Stanza and Cazina. 

ill Y journey was so rapid from Rome to Florence, that I 
shall not permit myself to describe a country which I travelled 
over without stopping; yet, in spite of the speed with which I 
travelled, I could not help remarking the great contrast be- 
tween the states of the church, and the grand duchy of Tus- 
cany : it appeared to me so striking, that I could scarcely be- 
lieve it was the effect of prejudice. 

When two states are separated by an arm of the sea, by a 
river or by a chain of mountains, the communication between 
the inhabitants becomes difficult, and a distinction in manners 
and character and habits ensues ; but here the line of demar- 
cation is in fact only ideal : the nature of the land is indeed the 
same, but every thing else, even to the physiognomy of the 
people, is different. The Romans have a taciturn and almost 
savage air among the lower orders ; 1 frequently remarked 
figures, which always enveloped in their mantles, and eye- 
ing you with a scrutinizing look, appeared as if they were 
meditating some act of vengeance, and we might feel uneasy 
if we were not aware that these people all this time are ab- 
solutely thinking of nothing, and only in their own way en- 
joying their benedetto far niente ; this, when continued, is un- 
doubtedly a state of ennui, and gives to their features an ex- 
pression which becomes frightful from its immobility. 

The plains of Rome, and here there is no illusion, are badly 
cultivated j the villages are miserable, and the country, almost 



Remarlcs on Rome and Florence. 55 

a desert, presents moors and heaths over which the traveller 
passes with reluctance. The towns, filled with monks rather 
than with citizens, seem the asylum of sloth. Such is the pic- 
ture which all this territory, even to its frontier, presents ! 
But on entering the bounds of Tuscany every thing changes, 
even to the countenances of the inhabitants, which seem full of 
contentment and benevolence. Their rural cottages, adapted 
to all the necessities of agriculture, are well built; their fields, 
skilfully cultivated, bear good crops; for Nature, avaricious 
only towards the idle, always recompenses industry and labour 
with treasures, the sources of prosperity and pleasure. 1 shall 
pursue no farther a comparison which may be injurious, and, 
perhaps, unjust, to one of these governments. I content 
myself with pointing out the difference without seeking for 
the cause. Perhaps I have overcharged |the painting, but 
carefiil observation will be found to fortify my opinion. 

It is very rare at Rome to find a meeting of a few individuals 
which is not disturbed by a quarrel, often terminating with the 
coltellate. 

At Florence, on the contrary, on occasion of their many 
ceremonies and public fetes, frequently the largest crowds as- 
semble peaceably : on the festival of tlie Assumption, especially, 
the inhabitants of Florence and its environs assemble early in 
the morning in the vast and delicious walks of the Casinos, on 
the borders of the Arno. There all ranks are mingled and 
confounded by pleasure: the day is passed in joy; the air re- 
sounds with songs, and with the sounds of the musical instru- 
ments which animate the steps of the dancers ; '^and in the 
shade of the pines and chesnut-trees small parties seat them- 
selves on the turf to enjoy a rural repast. 

The festival frequently extends far into the night, but there 
is not a single instance of a quarrel attended with bloodshed ; 
and yet there are more than twenty thousand persons collected 
and enclosed in one place : — this made me love the Tuscans. 

Rome and Florence present in their aj)pearance the same 
contrast which we have remarked between the two states, and 
they are in many respects opposed to each other. 

At Rome, the mingling of modern edifices with the ruins of 
those of the republic of the Caesars forms an interesting picture 
for the artist and the historian : yet this conftision of all the 
styles of architecture takes away from the modern city, which 
is grafted as it were on the ancient town, every peculiar and 
national character. On the contrary, the capital of Tuscany, 
possessing no antique monuments, presents the appearance of 
a town constructed at the same epoch and in the same style. 
That of the fifteenth or sixteenth centuries still predominates^ 



56 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

and if the Florentine costume did not so much resemble our 
own we might think we were still living in the noble age of 
the Medici. The ancient monuments of Rome do not produce 
this illusion : few of chem are preserved entire, and those which 
are, are converted to modern uses, which has despoiled of their 
enchantment these venerable relics. 

The magnificent portal of the Pantheon would present to the 
mind the temple consecrated by Agrippa, %vere it not for the 
modern clocks which shew it is converted into a church. Its 
interior more especially has preserved nothing of its ancient 
decoration ; and the contrast on entering it is the same which 
we meet with in buildings the exterior of which displays rustic 
simplicity, while within we find saloons ornamented with all 
that luxury can bestow. 

The arches and triumphal columns have veiy little effect, 
surrounded as they are with miserable houses, or buildings in 
a modern and frequently extravagant taste : the other remains 
of antiquity offer nothing but foundations or naked walls. 
The imagination with difficulty views them in their pristine 
state. In order effectually to recal the feeling of antiquity, 
nothing should remind you of the present; and these reveries, 
])roduced by the enthusiasm so common to artists, ought to en- 
joy retirement and solitude. The appearance of the Roman 
ruins rarely procured me this delight, which I felt in all its 
plenitude as I traversed the deserted streets of Pompeii. 

If in Rome the mixture of antient and modern recollections 
repels the imagination, which only acts to be deceived, this is 
by no mea:;»s the case at Florence. It is true the epoch which 
is there recalled is neither so ancient nor so interesting, — but 
the mind recurs with less effort to the age of the Medici than 
to that of Augustus. 

On approaching Florence the eye discovers the same walls, 
flanked with picturesque towers, which surrounded the city in 
the fifteenth century, and against AA'hich the Pisans and the 
Siennese so frequently spent their efforts in vain. All the 
monuments which rise so proudly, those immense domes, the 
embattled palaces, which resemble fortified castles, the chapels 
enriched with pious offerings, the handsome streets paved in 
tbe ancient style, the flowers which hang in festoons from one 
palace' to another, Avhich crown the walls and the summit 
of the towers, seeming by their abundance to have given its 
name to the city, all recal the age when Florence, free, or 
voluntarily submitting herself to the rule of her illustrious 
children the Medici, dealt out to the rest of Italy science, 
politeness, taste, and magnificence. 

Let us enter the ancient public square ; — let us survey this'"' 



The Carnival. 67 

palace, loaded with escutcheons of old families; — let us 
rest under this logge, ornamented like the square with the 
works of Donatello, of Michael Angelo, and of Giovanni di 
Bologna: but the imagination cannot conjure up the glorious 
men of th.it time, who in this place, presided by their magis- 
trates, distributing rewards to merit, decreeing peace or war, 
and ruling the affairs of the state. 

The pleasures of the carnival broke in upon my researches 
into the monuments of Florence ; but it will furnish me with 
some shades of habits and manners which I should not have 
been able to catch at any other season. It really seems that 
one forms a worse judgment (though the assertion may seem 
paradoxical) of the human character in society when the true 
sentiments of the mind are dissembled under false colours, 
than when under the mask of folly they make themselves 
amends for the habitual restraint in which the rules of society 
hold them, well assured that they are less likely to be recog- 
nised in proportion as they act with the freedom of unassumed 
nature. 

In some of the towns of Italy the period of the carnival is 
a time of riot and sanguinary quarrels. It is here charac- 
terised by a bustling joy and lively pleasure, yet tempered by 
the politeness and natural suavity of the inhabitants. In these 
public festivals the population for twenty leagues round are 
collected without the least trouble or accident. The carnival 
frequently lasts the whole season, that is, the three winter 
months. This is the only period of the year when the theatres 
are open at Rome. But at Florence two of them do not close 
all the year, those of Pergola and Cocomero. During the car- 
nival others are opened, in which a variety of pieces are per- 
formed. Besides this the squares and the streets are filled with 
rope-dancers and pantomimic performers of every kind, and 
winter wears away in a round of amusements in which all 
partake. 

I shall not give a long list of all the particulars which com- 
pose the character of this carnival, as it resembles in many 
respects similar festivals in other cities. I shall only relate 
what seemed to me peculiar to Florence; the description of 
one day alone will be sufficient. 

The carnival opens with the procession of the Befana, in the 
midst of torches and Avith the noise of horns and drums 
mingling with the noisy gaiety of the people. In the midst 
appears a ludicrous colossal figure representing a woman, or 
rather a sorceress, cloathed in flowing garments. The move- 
ments of the figure are directed by a man who is not seen 

Voyages and Travels, No. 6, Vol. IIL I 



5S Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

himself. As it traverses the streets it turns on every side to 
terrify the children, Avhich it attacks even in the second storj'. 
The enormous phantom called the Befana is all the year round 
the bug-bear of the young Florentines, who, if they behave 
ill, are threatened with its presence. When they have tra- 
versed the city they stop on the bridge and throw the image 
into the water amid the cries and imprecations of the multi- 
tude. 

The nurses of Florence al.«o call Befana, or Beffania, those 
good or evil fairies which, according to them, enter the houses 
by the chimney on the night of this festival. And children 
suspend their cloaths above the hearths that the fairies may 
fill their pockets with cakes in proportion as they have behaved 
themselves well or ill. 

I shall not endeavour to account for the procession of the 
Befana from the saturnalia, or any other ancient pagan rite. 
I am rather of opinion with Maimi, that it is a reHc of the re- 
presentation of the ancient mysteries, and is intended to com- 
memorate the gifts of the magi : the black and ugly figures 
represent the magi, and the presents which the children expect 
to receive commemorate those offered to the Holy Family. 
Whatever the true explanation may be, as soon as the Befana 
announces the opening of the carnival every person in good 
circumstances is never seen abroad but in his bauto, or domino, 
which is a kind of black cloak. This mantle, Avhich crosses 
in front, conceals all the other garments, and serves equally 
well for the promenade, for company, for the stanza, or for the 
theatre. The women wear a kind of high black bonnet, 
shaded with plumes of the same colour : this is equally the 
head-dress of all the females. Exercise, fresh air, and pleasure 
animate their complexion and their eyes 5 and, mingled together 
in this uniform dress, they appear still more striking. During 
the days of the festival gaiety is pushed almost to excess, and 
few persons can preserve a solemn or an indifferent coun- 
tenance. 

The men wear a hat, clasj)ed up in front and ornamented 
with plumes. Though ordinarily they only wear a small 
white mask fastened to the loop of their hats, or a pasteboard 
nose, yet they are considered as disguised, and they pass before 
their most intimate acquaintance without noticing them, and 
even without the air of knowing them. They in return pre- 
serve an equal distance, and thus both sides enjoy the greatest 
liberty. 

How well would this fashion suit some ];eople in society! 
They might then pass their superiors without respect, their 
benefactors without any mark of gratitude, their creditors 



TTie Carnival. 59 

without being dunned, and their mistresses without agitation ! 
Towards noon the fashionables assemble at the UJizii, an 
arcade under the celebrated gallery. Here witty repartees are 
exchanged, pleasantries cross one another, and bon mots cir- 
culate. Laughter communicates itself like an infection, and 
joy becomes universal. And, in the midst of the confused 
murmurs and rapid movements the spirit of intrigue is not 
idle, but assignations are made for an evening meeting at the 
Corso, in the square of Santa Croce, and thence for a visit 
to the theatre or the ball-room. 

The Florentines, like the inhabitants of all southern coun- 
tries, are great mimics ; they can do what they will with their 
figures and countenances ; and frequently, by a mere change 
of dress, they disguise themselves wonderfully, though their 
figure is seen. A young man disguised himself and walked 
for many days in the most frequented streets without a single 
person of his acquaintance recognising him. He dressed him- 
self as an Abbe, in a little mantle ; his hair, which was black, 
and had been usually combed high on the forehead, was curled, 
combed back over the head, tied in a knot behind, and pow- 
dered. Naturally pale, he rouged himself carefully, aufl, to 
conceal the thinness of his cheeks, he put a ball of ivory on 
each side of his mouth. In this state he gravely met his ac- 
quaintance, stopped before them, and boldly eyed them, while 
they supposed that this grave personage (for the balls of ivory 
prevented him from laughino) was an absolute stranger. 

Sometimes, in addition to this little mask, a strange-shaped 
nose is added, which forms a strong contrast with the other 
features. Some masks are made from wax moulded on the 
human face, and afterwards tinted by portrait-painters so as to 
represent well-known faces, while the wearer imitates the 
dress, countenance, gestures, and even tone of voice of the 
original, in a manner which almost deceives you. 

Other masquerades imitate the costume of the ancient 
statues ; thus we saw the Capitoline Juno walking arm in arm 
with Silenus, and Diana entering with the Apollo Belvidere. 

The square of Santa Croce, however, is the great rendezvous 
of the masks. Its length, and the beauty of the palaces which 
surround it, fit it for the theatre of the festivals which are given 
in it, and which were formerly more frequent. Here were 
tiltings, and tourneys, and races, and lastly games at foot-ball. 
We have descriptions of many of these festivals ; and, amongst 
others, of a magnificent masquerade given by Cosmo I. in the 
carnival of 1565: the carnival of 1615 has been engraved by 
Callot, and many others have exercised the graver of La Bella. 
The taste for these amusements was so great that during the 



60 Castellan's Tra'veh'm Italy. 

reign of Ferdinand II. and in the space of five months, six 
f^tes of different kinds were given, each more magnificent 
than the preceding. 

The square of Santa Croce is surrounded with a boundary 
of chains, which leave sufficient space for the passage of car- 
riages before the houses. On certain occasions amphitheatres 
are raised, round which also carriages can drive. The square 
was thus laid out in 1/38 for the last festival of the Calzio or 
foot-ball, which has been engraved by Gioseppe Zocchi. 
This print gives a good idea of the masquerades of Florence. 
Besides the harlequins and punchinellos, which the French 
have in such numbers, the other characters are very various 
and well kept up. 

All ranks, without exception, are turned into ridicule. A 
carriage filled with porters has a judge dressed in along robe 
and large wig, for a coachman. A physician is mounted on a 
lean ass, with panniers and cages filled with cats, and carrying 
a long staff", from wiiich some large dead rats are suspended, 
while a scroll on the top of it bears the words Remedi da topi, 
' antidotes against' rats :' to these may be added doctors with 
asses' heads, &c. The spectators themselves form a spectacle ; 
the windows of the houses, and the balconies of the palaces, 
are all ornamented with rich tapestry, and graced with brilliant 
company. The people cover the tiles of the houses, and on 
these aerial theatres engage in games, from which Italian con- 
fidence and address take away all danger, and which afford a 
very diverting appearance. 

The spectacle which we ourselves saw was very agreeable. 
The carriages, which throng the road, give great brilliancy to 
the scene ; they are filled with masks who answer the joy and 
acclamations of the multitude by throwing them cakes and 
confetti, and by sprinkling showers of perfumed water from 
little syringes towards the spectators who line the windows and 
the balconies : some of the carriages Contain musicians, and 
others are in the shape of triumphal cars, ornamented with 
different symbols. 

I shall only mention one of these masquerades, where luxury 
was united to good taste, and the contrivance appeared to me 
new and ingenious : the car, drawn by twelve beautiful horses 
richly caparisoned, represented Olympus ornamented with 
foliage, and on which stood the principal heathen deities, sur- 
rounded by nymphs and rural gods, and a numerous orchestra. 
Jupiter occupied the summit of the mountain, seated on the 
extended wings of an eagle, and enveloped with clouds, 
whilst Apollo and the Muses were singing and reciting some 
sonnets, copies of which were thrown amongst the crowd, and 



Tlie Carnival. 61 

in the midst of the deafening- noise of the musical instruments 
Jupiter M^as perceived to be agitated on his throne of clouds. 
He shortly leaves the summit of the mountain, rises majestically 
in the air, and sails along amid the applause of the wondering 
multitude, on whom he lances his artificial thunder, which, as 
it falls, changes into serpents; he still ascends, and as the last 
rays of the sun shine upon him he vanishes from the e^yes of 
the enchanted crowd, who load with prolonged applause the 
contrivers of a spectacle as splendid ^s it is ingenious. 

The inhabitants of Olympus did not disdain to mingle in the 
evening with simple mortals, and to appear at a masked ball 
which was given at the theatre of la Pergola ; where we had 
the pleasure of finding ourselves in the company of the muses, 
who, forgetting the sanctity of their former existence, gave 
themselves up to pleasure and joy. Here we beheld the sage 
Lucina transformed into the youngest of the graces, Venus 
here quitted the mask of Minerva, though still as wise as be- 
fore, while Juno tempered the majesty of heaven's queen 
with sweetness and affability. 

The assembly of the Stanze was one of the most agreeable 
for select company ; though none but masks were admitted, 
the door-keeper suffered none to pass but whom he knew : 
the sagacity of this man was wonderful — though you disguised 
your voice, and altered your walk, th6 door-keeper instinc- 
tively apprised, as it were, of the approach of an intruder, 
suffered you to proceed no further. This tact, this nice dis- 
crimination, though 1 believe it is perfectly mechanical, and 
common to many individuals in Italy, was one of the things 
which particularly excited my attention ; this rare faculty, the 
mark of a more perfect organization, explains the facility with 
which the Italians execute all their undertakings — a facility 
which astonishes other nations, amongst whom such works 
are only the result of time, study, and reflexion. 

The denomination of stanze or saloons, is applied to an es- 
tablishment formed by the middle ranks of the city, in oppo- 
sition to the cazina of the nobility; the latter, indeed, only 
comprises a small number of the commimity, and the nobles 
frequently abandon it for the stanze of the citizens, where 
more freedom and gaiety reign than in their own circle, over 
which, it is said, the pretensions of etiquette throw a coldness 
and constraint ; the founders of the stanze bear all the ex- 
pense, and admit such persons as are presented to them ; 
here, for conversation, there are various rooms, which are 
filled with good company; here are news-rooms, billiard- 
rooms, ball-rooms, and also a garden; in short, nothing is 
wanting to render the place agreeable j the evening flies in a 



62 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

circle of varied and decent amusements ; the building com- 
municates with one of the theatres, so you may walk thither 
under the arcade and hear a song, return and eat an ice, join 
in conversation, or figure in a dance. 

This establishment, where manners are respected, and 
where fashion reigns, supplies the place of our Athenaeums, 
and other places of public amusement ; every stranger of 
respectability is received with distinction : thus means are 
discovered, laoth instructive and amusing, of employing the 
long evenings of winter. 



LETTER IX. 

The Palazzo Pitti — The Gallery of Florence. 

1 HE celebrated gallery of Florence is commonly the first 
object which attracts the attention of strangers, and this is 
too frequently all they see of the city : it seems that all their 
interest is concentrated in this museum ; but ere they have 
well examined it, the colossal idea of Rome crosses their 
minds, and they hasten thither as the object of their desire, 
observing few of the objects of curiosity on their route. 

I have paid considerable attention, during my stay here, to 
the subject of Tuscan architecture, and to the exterior cha- 
racter of the principal monuments of Florence ; in this study 
I was much favoured by the beauty of the season which is here 
called winter, and which from the softness of the temperature 
would be esteemed summer in other countries; in fact, till 
February the weather has been constantly serene, and the 
cold so little perceptible, that I have not omitted my usual 
custovn of sketching in the open air; sometimes, indeed, the 
heat of the sun has been so great, that 1 have been com- 
pelled to shelter myself beneath the foliage of the ever-green 
trees, which give a false yet pleasing appearance of spring to 
the landscape. 

I have been very much delighted with the delicious gardens 
of Boboli, which are situated on the hill commanding the Pa- 
lazzo Pitti, the usual residence of the Grand Dukes. 

The palace is connected with the gardens by means of a 
large sort of amphitheatre, in the middle of which rises an 
obelisk of Egyptian granite ; this amphitheatre is composed 
of white marble, and the steps are supported by balustrades, 
and surmounted by niches containing statues an(l vases, which 
are finely relieved by the dark back-ground of ever-green 



TTie Gallery of Florence. 63 

verdure. The gardens, planted under the directions of Tri- 
bolo, and of the ingenious Buontalenti, are ornamented with 
monuments of architecture and sculpture, distributed by Va- 
sari and Giovanni di Bologna. The distribution of the gar- 
dens into various terraces, which are gained by flights of steps, 
offers a fine contrast of lines, and different points of views of 
great richness. 

As yet Me have had neither ice nor snow, and I have not 
yet felt melancholy at the sight of those sombre clouds, which 
shade the face of heaven for so considerable a period of the 
year in the north of France ; we have yet no need of fires 
and in the house in which I live, as indeed in all the others in 
the city, the kitchen chimney is the only one. It is onlv 
within these few years, that one or two others have been added 
in the Duke's palace, less from necessity than from curiosity. 
If at any time they feel cold they U'^e a brazier of copper, 
sometimes of silver, in which they burn charcoal prepared 
from the wood of the olive tree, the fumes from which are 
not considered prejudicial. This brazier is called veggio, and 
they sometimes carry it with them when they walk abroad, 
though at most the cold is not two degrees below the freezing 
point. 

At last the bad season has commenced, and it has termi- 
nated, as is frequently the case, with heavy showers, which 
have lasted without intermission for three weeks. 

We do not see here as in the other towns of Italy, porticoes 
or covered galleries along the houses ; but the inconvenience 
of sudden showers is guarded against by providing in various 
quarters of the town open logge : you may also prevent yourself 
being wet if you Avalk close to the houses, as you are pro- 
tected by the projecting roofs, which are thus constructed to 
protect the front of the building from showers, and to ward 
off the rays of the sun. The streets, however, have one great 
advantage, being paved with large and Avell joined flags, so 
that the rain runs easily off them, and they are dry again in 
half an hour. 

I have employed all the time the rainy season continued, in 
an examination of the celebrated gallery of Florence ; as I 
surveyed it my admiration scarce knew any bounds, and I felt 
penetrated with veneration and gratitude towards the family 
of the Medici, who first set the example of such a noble em- 
ployment of power and riches. 

The arts always follow the fortune of empires : borii at the 
same time, they experience the same vicissitudes, and their 
progress is equally regulated by circumstances. Flourishing 
in the bosom of peace, their flowers have sometimes been. 



64 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

blasted by political storms, or have withered under the in- 
fluence of bad taste or of court corruption. They only bear 
their true fruit in a time of public prosperity, and under the 
protection of a wise and pacific g-overnment. What has chiefly 
contributed to expand the taste, and to promote the study of 
the arts, has been the establishment of museums, where the 
great works of ancient and modern times are collected. The 
Gallery of Florence, without doubt the most celebrated of all, 
merits a particular description; and, at the same time, I shall 
endeavour to give a sketch of its origin, of the vicissitudes 
which it has experienced, and of the successive additions which 
have been made to it. 

The ancients, like the moderns, were much attached to the 
collecting of curiosities, and the remains of antiquity. Both 
in Greece and Rome they ornamented in this manner their 
porticoes, their temples, their schools, their libraries, and even 
their baths. But this attachment to objects of art was unknown 
to other nations, which possessed neither knowledge, taste, nor 
riches ; and it was extinguished even in Italy during the long 
ages of barbarism. 

It was the Medici, in the fifteenth century, when their family 
possessed no other influence but that of virtue and opulence, 
who awakened the genius, and afforded protection to the arts 
of peace. And, after they filled the throne of Tuscany, they 
contributed all in their power to the regeneration of Letters 
and Arts, and had the glory of giving their name to this me- 
morable epoch. Cosmo the Elder, named by a decree, and 
still more by the voice of pubhc gratitude, the Father of his 
Country, extended his paternal care to scholars and artists. 

The sons of Cosmo, educated in the midst of a polished court, 
imbibed there a taste for study, and transmitted it to their 
descendants, and even to their people. 

Giovanni de Medici encouraged these pursuits by his ex- 
ample, but a premature death carried him off". Piero de Me- 
dici, the second son of Cosmo, though under adverse circum- 
stances, threw some lustre on the arts, and encouraged them 
by his liberality. 

But it was Lorenzo, called the Magnificent, who opened, in 
his garden near the church of St. Mark, that famous school 
which had such a powerftil effect on the re-establishment of 
the arts. He filled this place with a variety of specimens of 
both ancient and modern art ; so that the logge, the alleys, and 
the halls, were ornamented with statues, paintings, designs, 
cartoons, and models, — the productions of the ablest masters, 
as Donatello, Bmnelleschi, Masaccio, Paulo Ucello, Fra Gio 
AngeUco, Filippo Lippi, &c. This school was open to all the 
young painters, sculptors, and architects. 



Gallei^y of Florence. 65 

At the same periods the museums Estense and Gonzaga were 
estabhshed. Nevertheless, the Medicean collection was still 
the most useful and complete. After the death of Lorenzo, 
his son, Leo X. extended great encouragement to literature 
and the arts ; but the property of his brother Piero became 
the prey of his ungrateful fellow citizens. I shall not detail 
the disgrace and flight of the latter. — He left behind him the 
greatest part of his property. — His palace was sacked, and 
three thousand medals of gold and silver, without mentioning 
those of brass, which were probably equally curious — the vases 
of agate — the beautiful cameos — and a crowd of other curiosi- 
ties, were stolen and dispersed. 

Notwithstanding this misfortune, a servant of the Medici, 
who remained faithful to his trust, preserved, at the peril of 
his life, the precious objects which had been confided to his 
care. This man was the father of the celebrated Baccio Ban- 
dinello. But, at length, forced to fly, he buried the cameos, 
the antique figures of bronze, and the other riches -, and this 
proof of fidelity did not remain without recompense when his 
patrons returned. 

After the assassination of Alessandro de Medici by Lorenzo, 
one of the same family, the houses both of the victim and 
murderer were pillaged. They contained a great number of 
Greek and Latin MSS., statues of marble and bronze, and other 
valuable articles. The animosity of the people was such, that 
these palaces were completely razed ; and the open spot, on 
which they formerly stood, was called the Traitors' Street. 

Cosmo I. Grand Duke of Tuscany, collected the scattered 
relics of this once precious collection, and rapidly augmented 
it by commanding a strict search to be made throughout his 
territories for the monuments of antiquity, and at the same 
time increasing it by the acquisition of many private cabinets. 
The success of these researches was considerable. At Arezzo, 
the celebrated inscription of Appius Claudius was discovered ; 
and a little time afterwards, the Chimera, of bronze, a most 
singular and curious object. In the ruins of a temple, a Pallas 
of bronze was found, of beautiful workmanship. Cosmo was 
rejoiced at these discoveries, and with the fruits of them orna- 
mented his cabinet in the Palazzo Vecchio ; but, having pur- 
chased the Palazzo Pitti, he made it the place of his abode, 
and transferred thither this collection, to which he made in- 
cessant additions. 

At this time many individuals, desirous of gaining the good 
graces of the sovereign, or induced by a disinterested love of 
the arts, and desirous of contributing to their progress, enriched 
Voyages and Travels, No, 5, Vol, III, K 



66 ■ Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

the Museum of Florence with many valuable articles, ancient 

and modern. 

It was this prince Avho first conceived the idea of the Gal- 
lery which now contains the Museum Florentinum, and which 
has been carried to such a degree of magnificence by his suc- 
cessors. This vast edifice owes its origin to a design of uniting 
the ancient palace of the Republic to the Palazzo Pitti. Va- 
sari executed this beautiful and useful work. The corridor, 
which passes over a bridge and through a part of the city, 
leading from the old palace to the habitation of the sovereign, 
was built in 1564, in the space of five months. 

But this gallery became insufficient to contain all the objects 
of art whichjncreased so rapidly. The Grand Duke Francis 
continued the labours of his predecessor ; and, on the scite of 
some of the neighbouring houses, he added to the gallery some 
magnificent halls. The ceiling of one of these halls was co- 
vered with mother-of-pearl. And yet this cabinet is more or- 
namented by the beautiful objects it contains. 

The Grand Duke Francis considerably augmented the col- 
lection of medals, and added all the antiques he could procure. 

In 1552 he received twenty-six marble statues, which had 
been in the Vatican ; but which that scrupulous pontiff', Pius V. 
dismissed, from a principle of religion j but not wishing them 
to be transferred into ecclesiastical hands, he had refused them 
to Ferdinando de Medici, on account of his being a cardinal. 
Amongst these statues were the seven muses, without the least 
traces of any part of the figures having been restored. 

The Cardinal Ferdinando, the brother of the Grand Duke, 
had got possession at Rome of the villa and gardens of the 
Medici. Hei'e a second Museum was established, which was 
fated one day to increase the richness of that of Florence. It is 
sufficient to mention the Venus de Medici, and the statues of 
Niobe and her children, to appreciate the value of this col- 
lection. In 1569 the two brothers divided between them the 
collection of the bishop of Pavia, consisting of fifty-nine statues. 

Cosmo II. who had bad health, did not contribute much to 
the embellishment of this gallery. But, in the long reign of 
his successor Ferdinando II. many additions were made to it. 
The Cardinal Leopold, the brother of Ferdinando, formed a rich 
and numerous collection of pictures and sketches, which, to 
their beauty, added the merit of antiquity. They extended as 
far back as the restoration of the arts and the time of the Greek 
painters. The cardinal also possessed a collection of medals, 
cameos, &c. Cosmo III. added many pictures to the museum. 

The Genius of the house of Medici, ere totally extinguished, 
seemed to wish to establish its rights to the gratitude of men 



Museum Florentinum. " ^ 

by some durable monument. Giovanni Gastone, the last scion 
of this ilhistrious family, commenced the magnificent descrip- 
tion of this g-allery, which is known by the name of the 
Museum Florentinum. 

The new sovereigns of Tuscany, princes of the house of 
Lorraine, contributed to the embellishment and completion of 
this admirable collection. In the year 1762, however, it was 
on the point of being totally destroyed by a fire, which burst 
out with great violence. It lasted many hours, extending its 
ravages into the western corridor, and consuming a considerable 
part of the building. The fire arose in a chimney which had 
been imprudently constructed over the Zogge de Lmizi; and 
it was fortunate that the fire commenced at this extremity, 
where there were fewer valuable articles than on the other 
side; but it was extinguished with the loss of only a few of 
these precious objects. 

Under the government of the Archduke Pietro Leopoldo, the 
legislator and reformer of Tuscany, the Gallery of Florence 
assumed a new appearance. The great fault of the gallery was 
a want of classification. Under his directions, many more halls 
were built, and a new flight of steps to ascend to them ; and 
he added to the museum the most precious ornaments of the 
other palaces. He likewise sent to Rome for the statues from 
the Villa Medicis, and more especially for those of Niobe and 
her children. By his exertions every class of objects had their 
distinct place, they were found M'ithout trouble, and classed so 
as to satisfy all tastes. He was rigorous in his selection, and 
admitted nothing that was not worthy of being preserved. 
The prince himself Avatched over the execution of his projects, 
and animated the workmen by his presence. One knows not 
which most to admire, — the grandeur of the enterprize, or the 
celerity of the execution. In 1780, in the space of one year, 
new buildings were added, and divided into halls ; while, by 
this means, the communication was rendered more easy, and 
they were ornamented with stuccoes, gilding, paintings, and 
marbles; the tapestry and other drapery was renewed; the 
statues and pictures were ]:>laced in other situations, cleaned, 
or restored; whilst every thing was ranged according to the 
system of a library, where every volume has its own separate 
and distinct place. And this metamorphosis was executed in 
so rapid a manner, that travellers, ere they had completed the 
tour of Italy, as they repassed through Florence, thought they 
beheld a new gallery, and were full of admiration at a change 
which almost appeared magical. 



68 Castellan's Travels in Italy, 



LETTER X. 



Festival of May — Arrive at Fiesole — Its History— -Its Antiquities. 

L HE traces of winter have disappeared in the space of a few 
days, and as if by the power of magic the balmy breath of 
Favonius has dissipated the frost, and changed all at once the 
aspect of the country ; vegetation shews itself, the sap begins 
to rise in the trees, and the ground is covered with spontane- 
ous verdure. 

It is now time for me to quit the city, and commence my 
picturesque excursions — it becomes my pleasure, my care, 
and my duty, to assist in the awakening of nature. 

I passed the gate of Santa-croce, and the mills and fall of 
the Arno, and I wandered sloAvly along the shady banks of the 
liver. What a fresh and beautiful situation ! Through the 
bowers of fruit-bearing trees and the boughs of lilacs, I per- 
ceived the waters sparkling against the banks, or rolling 
peaceably amongst the flexible branches of the osiers, which 
bent over the current. Farther on, on a hill covered with 
vines, rose some elegant casinos, which broke the blue line of 
the rocks of Fiesole, crowned with their Tuscan walls, re- 
markable for the lofty tower which serves as a belfry for the 
cathedral ; nearer me the fields, divided by rows of reeds, 
presented an appearance of varied cultivation; I could not 
perceive any one at work, and I met none but villagers 
clothed in their gayest habits, who seemed more intent on 
their pleasures than their rustic labours. 

At last I arrived at a farm-house ; a young tree had just 
been planted before the door; knots of ribbands and little 
fillets of tinsel, were fluttering in the air, suspended from the 
branches, and sparkling through the leaves ; every bough 
bore some ornament, and a crown of flowers shaded the win- 
dow of the house. The air was echoing with the strains of a 
serenade, when the casement which served as a door opened, 
and three beautiful girls, fresh as the season, and neatly dressed, 
laughingly made their appearance to greet their lovers. 

This pastoral scene reminded me that it was May-day, 
Calendi-maggio, a festal day in the spring of life, and at the 
name of which the heart throbs, even amid the coldness of 
age. In the gaiety and liveliness of this rustic sport the 



Festival of May-day — Fiesole. 69 

youth of both sexes form a chain-dance around the May-pole ; 
they pursue each other with rapid and well-timed steps, 
whilst their relatives prepare a feast in some shady spot. 

As soon as they saw me the master of the house advanced, 
and with an unembarrassed air invited me to partake of 
their rural repast. I hesitated ; my host's youngest daughter 
observed me, and separating herself from the group of dancers, 
she gave me her hand. It was impossible to resist the sim- 
plicity of this action ; I yielded ; she led me towards her 
companions, and the chain, in which I now formed a link, was 
recommenced with double joy and vivacity. 

At the Calendi-maggio, rustic improvisators, dressed in a 
fantastic style, recite tales and legends for the amusement of 
their audience — I heard the history of Ferragosto ; the songs, 
which are composed on this occasion, are called Maggeolate ; 
and the tree, whose branches, adorned as I have mentioned, 
overshadow the windows of the young maidens, is called 
maio. The festival, which is only preserved in the country, 
has given place in town, to concerts, dances, and entertain- 
ments, which last several days. There are numberless mag- 
giolate, composed by a crowd of authors, and even by Lo- 
renzo the Magnificent. 

As I proceeded I j^erceived before me the city of Fiesole, 
situated on the table-land of the mountain, and between the 
two swellings of the hills ; I saw its public square, its ancient 
cathedral, the more modern buildings of the archiepisco- 
pal palace and the Academy ; lower down a road, the wind- 
ings of which follow the bend of the hill, leads along the 
rocks which supported the ancient Etruscan fortress, where 
we now. behold the church, the convent, and the vast garden 
of the monks of the order of St. Francis. 

On the side opposite the plain of Florence the gazer's eye 
rests on the deep but elevated pass, through which the boiling 
waters of the Mugnone forces its way through a channel of 
rock and marble ; the rapid declivity causes no apprehension 
of danger, for its force spends itself on its own steep banks : 
evergreen woods clothe these mountains, which join the 
chain of the Apennine Alps, which display in the distance 
their summits capped with snow. 

The most interesting prospects is that which includes the 
principal remains of Fiesole. This view appeared to me so 
beautiful, that, wishing to give my entertainers a proof of my 
gratitude for their kindness, I resolved to adorn the room with 
paintings in distemper, of ivhich this view formed the most 
conspicuous part. There may seem a little vanity in mention- 
ing this fact in my letters, but I possessed so few occasions of 



70 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

exercising ray pencil on a large scale, that this was really an 
epoch in my pictorial career. 

On the hills of Fiesole I^ beheld the beautiful skies of Italy 
in all their purity, and there I experienced the plenitude of 
those sweet and vivid emotions, which the artist enjoys when 
youth and inspiration, and the desire of fame are his. 

Mention is made, by the ancient authors, of Fiesole, but its 
niins afford no means of judging of Avhat it formerly was — 
temples, palaces, theatres are all swept away ; even the tombs 
are violated ; the inscriptions, the monuments of art, have 
been all destroyed or carried away, and even the traces of its 
former glory are eclipsed. 

The origin of Fiesole is involved in the inextricable mazes 
of ancient fable ; but its Avails display, notwithstanding so 
many assaults, a style of building of the most remote antiquity, 
and seem to prove the prodigious force of the men who con- 
structed them ; the walls are not composed of ordinary and 
evenly wrought stones, but of immense masses of rock, irre- 
gularly shaped, and artfully placed one upon another : in 
short, the solidity of these erections, and the elevated scite 
which they occupy, seem like the work of the elder race of 
mankind terrified at the tremendous catastrophe of the deluge. 
Aqueducts, erected probably at the same period, carried to 
Fiesole the waters of Mount Reggi, several miles distant; 
and, although they were broken down in the time of Cassar, 
as Villani tells us, yet their remains dispersed along the coun- 
try, resemble real rocks in magnitude, and may be confounded 
with them from their rude and savage appearance. Fiesole 
was one of the twelve cities of Etruria; the ancients praised 
the serenity of its atmosphere, and the salubrity of its waters 
and baths, which were reported to be a cure for many mala- 
dies. This city had the glory of resisting, though unsuccess- 
fully, and of fatiguing the armies of Rome, on which occa- 
sion they gave proofs of the greatest courage. We perceive 
in the writings of Livy and the other Roman authors how 
formidable the inhabitants of Fiesole and the rest of Etnu'ia 
were esteemed ; all the forces of Rome were employed at 
various times to subdue them, and several dictators were 
created for the purpose of allaying the fear which this people 
inspired. The inhabitants of Fiesole distinguished themselves 
on several occasions, amongst them, one of the most remark- 
able was when, on the discovery of Catiline's conspiracy by 
Cicero, the seditious citizen, compelled to seek safety in flight, 
escaped from Rome accompanied by his fellow conspirators ; 
they fled to Fiesole, the only city which by its formidable 
situation, and the courage of its inhabitants, was capable of 



Fiesole. 71 

resisting the Roman arms. Catiline indeed did not hesitate to 
hazard an engagement with the consul Caius Antonius, the 
result of which was a doubtful victory, although the brave 
citizens of Fiesole were few in number and almost without 
arms. The fortune of Rome at length triumphed, when the 
leaders of the Etrurian army, mortally wounded, fell upon the 
mangled heaps of tlieir soldiers' bodies. The victory was, 
however, almost as dear to the conquerors as to the conquered, 
and at Rome smiles struggled with tears when the news of 
the battle arrived there. 

In the year 405, Fiesole, assisted by Florence, opposed the 
attacks of Radagaisius king of the Goths, and Rome was de- 
livered from the yoke of that people, under the weight of which 
Italy had so often groaned. It was on this occasion that the 
Florentines consecrated a temple to St. Reparata, as a contem- 
porary historian relates. Saint Ambrose had promised fre- 
quently to visit his beloved Florentines, and, during the time 
that Radagaisius was besieging Florence, the holy Prelate, 
who had died a little time previously, appeared in a dream to 
one of the inhabitants, and promised them deliverance on the 
morrow. This man communicated to his fellow citizens his 
vision, which inspired them with great courage. Accordingly 
Stilicon, the imperial general, made his appearance with his 
army, and a division arising amongst the Goths, their defeat 
was rendered still more certain. As this victory took place on 
the birth-day of the Virgin Martyr, St. Reparata, the Floren- 
tines raised a temple in her honour, which was ornamented 
with the trophies borne from their enemies. 

Desirous of enriching this cluu'ch with some relics of the 
Virgin Saint whose body was deposited with the monks of 
Jeano, a little town in the Terra di Lavouro, they applied in 
1352 to the king of Naples, who ordered the monks to deliver 
up an arm of their Patroness. Grieved at a command M'hich 
obliged them to do so great an outrage to the remains of the 
martyr, the good monks sent in its stead a piece of wood so 
exquisitely carved, and so well imitating nature, that the fraud 
was not discovered until several years afterwards by a jeweller 
who had been directed to make a rich reliquary to contain the 
precious and holy limb. 

The subjection of Fiesole was the means of Florence re- 
ceiving amongst her citizens some very noble and distinguished 
families. It may be sufficient to mention the Pazzi, the 
Strozzi, the Guadagni, and the Adimari. The destruction of 
that city also furnished Florence with innumerable columns 
and other materials for the erection of beautiful edifices j and 
from the same place she carried away many statues and sculp 



72 Castellan*s Travels in Italy. 

tured marbles to adorn her temples and her palaces. It is 
very probable that the four columns which support the arched 
roof of the gallery of the Baptistry, are the remains of some 
monument in Fiesole, and even at this day, they find in the 
soil of its environs, very rich materials. 

Fiesole was one of the first cities after Rome that embraced 
Christianity. She has produced a great number of philoso- 
phers and literary men besides several celebrated artists both 
in sculpture and painting. The city of Fiesole may say with 
pride " here rose my high towers and my impregnable walls — 
there lay the baths of Catiline — yonder w^ere the temples of 
Jupiter Fulminans, and of Mars — in that place stood the 
college of Augurs and the palace of the ancient kings," and 
even yet the relics of those indestructable walls, the steep rocks, 
and the precipices which seem to be the vast tomb in which the 
ancient city is buried, inspire sensations of awe and venera- 
tion. On the ruins of the temple of Jupiter there now rises 
a church where the All-powerful God is worshipped, and the 
college of Augurs is replaced by an Academy, where they no 
longer teach the superstitious art of reading the future, but the 
truth and holiness of the Christian doctrine. The bathing 
waters, formerly so celebrated, still run amidst the most de- 
lightfiil villas and gardens of Tuscany. These beautiful re- 
treats no longer re-echo the sound of the Avarlike trumpet, 
but the sweet accents of joy j and Fiesole has exchanged the 
splendour of military renown for the more durable gloi-y of 
peace and the arts. 

The most remarkable antiquities of Fiesole are the colossal 
fragments of the old Etruscan walls, of which a few vestiges 
only remain, particularly near the monastery of Saint Jerome, 
which was converted into a villa by the Counts Bardi, and 
also the aqueduct, the ruins of which may be seen near the 
convent of La Doccia. The vast subterraneous chambers near 
the cathedral, and which are called the Biiche delle Fate, the 
fairies hiding-places, are worthy of the attention of the tra- 
veller. 



Country around Fiesole. . 7S 



LETTER XI. 



Description of the Country about Fiesole — Oratory of John of 
Bologna — The Convent of La Doccia — Monte Senario — The 
House of PoUtiano — The Villa Salviati — The Retreat of the 
Decameron — Topaja. 

Xn the midst of pleasant and select society, solely occupied 
in games and diversified pleasures incessantly renewed, and 
which seemed to borrow something of the vivacity of the air 
which we breathed on these heights, I yet felt a desire of soli- 
tude. There we find enjoyment, less expansive perhaps, but 
more deep, and in which a slight tinge of melancholy is 
mingled, Avhich is not without its charms. 

Thus lonely, and with a book which served me as the text, 
and so to speak, as the vehicle of my thoughts, I slowly tra- 
versed the perfumed hills of Fiesole, under the shade of woods 
of pine and sycamore. I frequently passed the hours of de- 
clining day, in contemplating at a distance the plain of Flo- 
rence, with its })alaces, its high towers, and its domes, coloured 
by the vivid light of a sun, cloudless and ardent even in its 
setting. The complete absence of every vapour permitted me 
to see distant objects with such clearness, that I could trace 
every detail, and I almost conceived that I must hear the con- 
fused murmur of voices and the noise of mechanical occupa- 
tions amongst the inhabitants of the capital. This prospect 
was rendered still more interesting by contrasting it with the 
peaceable shades by which I was sheltered. I placed a just 
value on the tumultuous pleasure of the town, Avlien I com- 
pared them with the silent freshness of the country. This 
addressed itself eloquently to my heart, and immersed me in 
that sweet meditation which is the fruit of a tranquil spirit, 
of a feeling of happiness, and health, and calm joy, or rather 
of the pleasure one experiences in youth when the passions 
are slumbering and our being is in perfect harmony with every 
thing around us. 

The day faded, and I heard nothing but the light murmur 
of the winds of night, as they swept through the foliage 
mingled with the rippling of a fountain, and the expressive 
chirping of birds, which, flying here and there, answered one 
another, and seemed in haste to take advantage of the remains 

Voyages and Travels, No, 5, Vol. III. h 



74 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

of day-light, to search for their food and a secure retreat for 
the night. 

I quitted this place with regret, resolving, in gratitude for 
the sensations which I had there experienced, to visit it again, 
and to enrich my port-folio with several fine views which I 
had remarked there. 

Guided by the twilight, and shortly afterwards by the beams 
of the moon, which seemed to [rise most majestically amid a 
crowd of stars, which appeared far more brilliant and numerous 
than in our climate, 1 followed a path which I supposed would 
lead me into the road to Fiesole ; when suddenly I distinguished 
the sounds of rustic music, amongst which I heard the notes 
of the bagpipe, the guitar, and the zampogna. Attracted by 
the charm of this melody, than which, when well executed by 
the rustic performers in the depth of a wood, and amid the 
solitude of night, nothing can be more agreeable, I beheld 
all at once a light shining through the trees. This led me to 
the place where the rural concert was, and, guided by its light, 
I arrived at a fountain, or rather a chapel, for beneath an 
arch, supported by columns, I saw a painting of the Virgin 
and the Infant Jesus, surrounded by cherubims and prostrate 
angels. An abundant stream fell from a sculptured lion's head 
which frowned under the painting, and flowed into the reser- 
voirs which were placed at the sides of the edifice. A lamp, 
suspended from the centre of the arch, rendered the scene 
still more interesting. A whole family were imploring the 
Divine grace for the recovery of an infant which its mother 
held in her arms, covering it with tears and kisses ; the other 
members of the family were praying with fervour, or clianting 
hymns which they accompanied with their instruments. 

If the reader can imagine the mingling of voices and music, 
most simple and harmonious, with the sound of the dancing 
waters flowing over the stones and along the green turf — the 
light of the moon through the foliage — the clear lustre of the 
lamp which gilded the figure of the virgin in the niche, and 
shone in the reflexion of the crystal and moving waters, shed- 
ding at the same time a light over the actors of this pious 
scene — if he can imagine this scene more impressive as it was 
unexpected, and so sweetly harmonizing with those serious 
sensations which filled my heart — he will even then have only 
a weak idea of the impression which I experienced. 

At my approach, the good people rose from their prayers, 
but I begged that I might mingle my intercessions with theirs. 
The hymn was recommenced, and the voices of the young 
girls, joined to those of musicians of every age, made one of 
the most delicious concerts I ever enjoyed. 



Joiin of Boiogna—La Doccia. 7^ 

The route of these villagers lay along the road to Fiesole. 
As I accompanied them they related to me a crowd of miracles, 
which they attributed to the virtues of those waters, and above 
all, to the intercessions of the Madonna to whom they are con- 
secrated. It is pleasing to behold the gifts of nature associated 
with the name of their Author- — this is to attribute blessings 
to their true source, and to awaken those consoling ideas of 
mercy and protection, which nourish faith and inspire grati- 
tude towards the Deity. 

The chapel of this fountain, which I frequently revisited, is 
one of the finest monuments of the kind. It presents a mix- 
ture of antique and modern taste, which to me is very de- 
lightful. It was ornamented, according to tradition, by John 
of Bologna, Avho possessed a mansion in this neighbourhood. 
He employed some fine materials, prociu'ed from an ancient 
edifice, and he has arranged them with great taste. 

I had promised to visit the convent of La Doccia, and I had 
an opportunity, Avhile I was employed in sketching in this pic- 
turesque spot, of becoming acquainted with its inhabitants, 
who did not belie the good opinion which I had at first con- 
ceived of them. 

Pious, without affectation, one might perceive from their 
manners, from their physiognomy, which was rather amiable 
than austere, from the neatness and propriety of their gar- 
ments, from the flowers which shaded the windows of their 
cells, or which, placed in crystal vases, ornamented their church, 
in short, from all the details of their domestic management 
which was excellent and well mnderstood, one might perceive 
that these monks did not neglect any of those innocent plea- 
sures which their situation allowed. Indeed they apj:>eared 
perfectly happy ; and doubtless they ^vould not have exchanged 
their pleasant and peaceable life for the grandeur and pomp 
which the world bestows upon its votaries. 

The church, though small, possesses some objects worthy 
of attention, such as the pictures of the great altar, and of 
one of the chapels, which are from the pencil of Niccodemo 
Ferrucci, a pupil of Passignano. 

In front of the church runs a terrace, planted with large 
cypress tress, which form, as it were, the peristyle of the 
edifice. It is also surrounded with beautiful gardens. The 
building, upon which these grounds are now suj)ported, for- 
merly served as aqueducts, op perhaps as baths, and the streams 
which yet wander through them give freshness to a vegeta- 
tion which is extremely vigorous. The lines which the dif- 
ferent stages of these ruins present, form combinations of 
figures of which the effect is pleasing and picturesque. 



76 Castellan's Travels in Italy. '. 

At some distance from Fiesole there is another monaster}", 
of a very different character from that which I have just de- 
scribed ; it is that of Monte Senario. 

Isolated in the mountains, and removed from evei7 other 
habitation, it occupies the centre of a wood of fir-trees, which 
surround it on all sides and hide it from the view of those who 
climb the steep side of the mountain. The pilgrims who travel 
towards this sanctuary would easily lose their way over the 
heaths and in the underwood were it not that little oratories, 
which serve as stations and land-marks, had been erected at 
short distances to point out the Avay. This place would serve 
extremely well as the retreat of hermits who have completely 
renounced the world, and who, relieved from their earthly 
bonds, seem to have no other aim, by the isolated and skiey 
spot which they have chosen, than to approach that Heaven 
which they hope one time to enter, through sufferings and 
privations of every kind, and the renunciation of all the sweets 
of life. 

The monks of La Doccia, on the contrary, seek Heaven by 
a more practicable way. They do not resemble these austere 
religionists, but rather those persons, who, disgusted with the 
noisy pleasures of society, retire into an agreeable solitude to 
enjoy the innocent delights of a country life. In quitting the 
world they do not become misanthropists, and they still hold 
commiuiication with their fellow-men, Avhen they administer 
to them succour and consolation. 

The origin of the convent of Monte Senario was as follows : — 
Towards the middle of the thirteenth century Brother Giovanni 
di Vicenza, a monk of the order of Preachers, and at this time 
an eloquent and celebrated missionary, arrived at Bologna, 
where he was soon surrounded by a multitude of the inhabit- 
ants of the neighbouring towns aud villages. He converted 
and reconciled many; he repressed the luxury of the women, 
and he produced many other admirable effects by the preaching 
of the word of God. This same Fra. Giovanni preached a 
general peace in Italy; and the princes, magistrates, and 
people, to the amount it is said of four hundred thousand 
persons, entered into that engagement. Every one was ready 
to embrace it, but, unfortunately, these good intentions lasted 
only a few davs. The zealous missionary, proud of the ascen- 
dancy which lie had acquired over his fellow-countryjiien, now 
wished to become their master, and to gain the sovereignty. 
His triumph did not last long : he was cast into prison with 
his partizans, and soon afterwards exiled ; too late repenting 
that he had not confined himself within the bounds of his 



Monte Senario. 77 

sacred ministry, and convinced of the instability of all human 

tbip,g-s. 

Nevertheless, the seeds which he had scattered fructified in 
the timorous minds of his disciples. Many persons, of various 
conditions in life, adopted the monastic vow; and in 1233 seven 
noble Florentines retired into the heart of the forest which 
surrounded Monte Senario, and constructed, in the summit of 
the mountain, cells, in wbich they might pass the lives of 
anchorites. They called themselves the servants of the Virgin 
Mary ; and they soon were followed by others who were 
zealous in imitating- their example. Another Florentine, 
Filippo Benizi, was a vig-orous propagator of this new order. 
At th'iS day there may be seen within the walls of the convent 
the seven grottoes of the founders, and also that of Benizi, who 
was canonized and became the patron of the society. 

There are some good paintings in the church. On the roof 
Gabbiani, the best scholar of Dandini, a painter of the school 
of Cortona, has represented the Virgin bestowing their habit 
«n the founders of the order. This hermitage is most remark- 
able as having been the retreat of many men of merit. 

A contemplative life, which exalts the imagination and fixes 
it constantly on one predominant object, or idea, which it 
continually nourishes and examines, as it were, in every point 
of view — this concentrated existence, directing its attention 
towards only one study as its aim and end, gives birth to talent, 
and carries it to its highest perfection. V^e might mention 
the names of a crowd of celebrated people who have been 
educated in the shade of the cloister, and who've happy dispo- 
'sitions might never have been developed amid the tumult of 
the world, and in an active life which might only have stunned 
and distracted them. It is not, therefore, astonishing that the 
hermitage of Monie Senario, the situation of which adapts it 
so well for reflexion, and where the disti'action of the world is 
5?o well avoided, should have produced many literary men and 
artists. Amongst the latter may be mentioned Mascagni, who 
in this monastery assumed the name of Arsenio ; andj. B. Ste- 
phaneschi, who took the cowl in 1605. 

My freqvient walks in the neighbourhood of Fiesole had not, 
as was my custom, any determined aim ; I wandered at hazard, 
and this mode of seeing and observing procured me much un- 
expected pleasure, and many an agreeable surprise ; it furnished 
me with contrasts which might have escaped me in a more 
methodical route. The numerous villas which I passed par- 
ticidarly attracted my attention, from a double motive of 
interest — the historical facts which they recalled, and the pic- 
turesque situations which they occupied. The environs of 



jrg Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

Fiesole indeed, so well known for the beauty of their prospects, 
have been the retreat of numbers of celebrated men, who, in 
the tranquillity of that place, have given themselves up to study 
and reflexion. Amongst these may be mentioned the celebrated 
Politian, who in one of his letters addressed to Marcilio Ficino 
has described the situation of his villa at Fiesole, and which 
reminds us of the modest but commodious habitation of Horace. 
Thither he frequently retired to correct and complete his 
writings, and from thence he addressed, in 1478, to Pandolfi 
CoUenuccio, the Racconti Amatorii of Plutarch. 

This house, which is not far from Fiesole, in a place re- 
freshed by a fountain which flows underneath the thick shade, 
and which the poet distinguished by the name of lucens fon- 
ticulus, appears to be the same as the oratory which is called 
Fonie lucente, and which was erected at the end of the seven- 
teenth century in memory of a miractilous crucifix. In this 
place Ant. Pellori, in 1733 painted his picture of the Resur- 
rection. There also may be seen there a picture on wood, 
bearing the date of 1398, which was brought from another 
chapel which has been demolished. 

From this spot the traveller beholds the whole course of the 
Mugnone; an ancient bridge terminates the view on one side; 
and on the other extremity of the pass where Radagaisius was 
enclosed and destroyed, with all his men, there is another 
Roman edifice, which has gained the appellation of Cicero's 
Tower. 

This quadrangular building, which is very lofty, and com- 
posed of stone and bricks, resembles a fortification destined to 
defend the pass of the mountain, rather than the house of an 
individual. It is a curious fact, that there are iron rings fixed in 
this tower, at a certain height from the ground, similar to those 
which, in sea-ports, are used to moor ships and boats to. It is con- 
jectvu'ed that this must have been their use: but then the level of 
the river must have formerly been much higher than at present; 
or else this valley must have been a lake, the waters of which, 
breaking a passage through the rocks of Fiesole, have flowed 
into the low grounds. Indeed, the boundaries within which 
the Mugnone flows appear almost to have the shape of an oval 
crater. The borders of the circumference are very clearly 
marked out, except on the side of Fiesole, where there is a very 
deep cut, by which the torrent escapes. 

It is the opinion of some naturalists, that the neighbouring 
valley of Mugello Avas the mouth of a volcano, and that it also 
contained a lake; and that the plain of Florence, as I have 
just mentioned, formed another immense lake, which extended 
to the mountains of Lucca and Pisa. 



Course of the Miignone^-The BiancH Faction. 79 

The Mugnone presented many more variations in its course j 
for, after passing the bridge at JBadia, and turning round the 
hills of Fiesole at Cure, the villa Bilotti, and the monastery of 
St. Benedict, it flowed through the Via Ceia, as far as the 
Via Fmsa, perhaps so called from the rapid current of the 
waters as they passed ; then, still seeking the lower grounds, 
it turned towards the city, passing by Pinti, by Caffeggio, and 
by the street called San Gallo ; till, falling by the street de 
Gori, it arrived at the point of its junction with the Arno, a 
little beneath the bridge della Carraja. Tradition strengthens 
this idea, and the ancient maps of Florence confirm it; and, 
moreover, the sand and gravel which in our days have been 
dug up in these various spots, amount to a demonstration. But 
let us return to the villas which adorn its borders. 

Dino Dazzi, a Florentine poet, possessed a house in the 
neighbourhood of San Dominico, as well as Ugolino Verini. 
Scipio Ammirato the Elder dates the dedication of his Com- 
mentaries on the wars of Don Juan of Austria, with the Turks, 
from his little villa of Fiesole, the 1st of March, 1581; and the 
traveller still perceives with pleasure this inscription traced on 
the stone-work of the architrave : 

SCIPIO ADMIRATUS REIP. FLOR. SCRIPTOR. 

On the banks of the Mugnone, there is a. cluster of houses 
which has received the name of the Cure. Dante retired thither 
to enjoy the tranquillity of its solitude. When this illustrious 
poet was driven into exile, his house was confiscated. 

It was not far from hence, and in the villa Salviati, which is 
built upon an eminence, at a place called La Lastra, that the 
faction of theBianchi, to the number of sixteen hundred gentle- 
men, and nine thousand foot soldiers, assembled in 1304, during 
the night of the 19tli of July. From thence they marched 
upon Florence, and even penetrated into the city. But, seized 
with a panic terror, they fled precipitately out of the gates, 
and, dispersing, abandoned their enterprise. It has been 
thought that Dante was a party to this rash enterprise, in the 
hope of returning to his countiy ; and, indeed, it was not long 
after this event, that he abandoned Tuscany and retired to 
Padua. 

Petracco, the father of Petrarch, and the friend of Dante, was 
also connected with the party of the Bianchi. Exiled from 
Florence at the same time, and by the same sentence, they 
participated in the dangers of this nocturnal attempt. Return- 
ing immediately to Arezzo, wiiither he had retreated with his 
wife, Eletta Caccigiani, Petracco found, that on this night, 
which had been attended with so much peril to himself, his 
wife had presented him with a son, whose birth had endangered 
his mother's life. This son was the celebrated Petrarchj 



80 Castellan's Tratels in Italy. 

The Villa Salviati gives a good idea of those strong castles 
which, in the fourteenth century, formed the retreat of the 
revolting nobles, whose followers tyrannized over the neigh- 
bouring country. One of these castles, called Monte Acinico, 
which was built by some cardinal in the Nugello, and in which 
he received the honour of a visit from the pontiff Gregory X., 
became so formidable a station, that the Floi'entines were com- 
pelled in 1306 to besiege and raze it. 

A very melancholy circumstance, which happened in 1349 — 
the assassination of Christiano and Mainardo, two of the inti- 
mate friends of Petrarch, by the exiles of Florence, gave occa- 
sion to that illustrious poet to write to the governor of Florence 
a very vehement letter, Avhich seemed to carry all the indig- 
nation of its author into the breasts of the Florentine magis- 
trates. They sent troops into the Mugello, and, in consequence, 
many of their strong-holds were destroyed ; and, as a modern 
historian of Italian literature has observed, Tuscany owtd her 
tranquillity to the eloquent apj^eal of one of her banished citi- 
zens, and one to whom the goods of bis family had not yet been 
restored. 

By degrees the sombre and formidable appearance of these 
fortresses has vanished. Porticoes, inclosed with light iron 
gates, have succeeded to the draw-bridges; and the walls of 
the terraces are covered with vases of marble or bronze, which 
contain the rarest plants, while the details of ancient architec- 
ture have been converted into more elegant or convenient 
forms. Frequently, as is the case with the Villa Salviati, the 
ancient mansion only serves as a habitation for the steward 
and the fainiglia, or domestics, and porticoes or passages paved 
with Mosaic or small stones, unite the ancient building to a 
new edifice, constructed in a more elegant style, and in a more 
accessible situation, embellished with all the brilliant additions 
which fashion, however variable, renders necessary ; and which 
were unknown to the austere and gothic feudatories who for- 
merly possessed such domains. 

On the banks of the Mugnone also is situated the majestic 
villa which is called Tre Visi, and which appears to have been 
the retreat of the company for whose entertainment Boccacio 
composed his Decameron during the plague of 1348. , 

Indeed Boccacio himself, without pointing out the place 
otherwise than by the word il contado, says in his work ^' On 
Wednesday, at break of day, the ladies and their cavaliers, 
leaving Florence with their suites, commenced their route, 
and after proceeding two miles, arrived at the place which had 
been prepared for their reception, and which was sufficiently 
remote from the highway. It was a palace with a spacious 



Benedetto Varchl. — Tropaja: 81 

and handsome court, surrounded by logge, and by halls and 
other well arranged apartments furnished with pictures. This 
edifice occupied the summit of a hill, which was covered with 
a variety of shrubs and trees of the finest foliage, and sur- 
rounded by meadows and beautiful gardens abounding with 
springs of the freshest water. 

At the commencement of the third day, Boccacio speaks of 
the cellars of this palace ; and he mentions the limpid waters 
which oozed through every part, and more especially a very 
abundant fountain that flowed through the meadow, and, 
falling to the lower grounds, turned two mills. 

In another part, he says, that from this spot there is a view of 
Fiesole ; in short every circumstance confirms the idea that 
this is the villa in question. It is two miles from Florence, 
and near it there rises a spring, the M'ater of which turns two 
mills. The idea is also confirmed, from the traditionary evi- 
dence of the residents in the neighbourhood. 

Near the royal mansions of Castello and La Petraja, there is 
a villetta called Topaja, which is supposed to have been built 
by Cosmo I., whose arms are placed on the left angle of the 
house, with this motto, " Exaltabo te, Domine, et exuliabo !" 
In thy exaltation M'ill I exult, O Lord ! 

This Prince, who was much attached to the celebrated his- 
torian Benedetto Varchl, and who had already loaded him with 
benefits, wishing in 1558 to give him a new proof of his affec- 
tion, presented him with this house, to enable him with greater 
facility to complete the history of Florence, which he had 
commenced. The auilior accepted the favour with gratitude, 
and retired to this spot, where he passed nearly the whole year, 
with the exception of some short intervals, during which he 
visited Pisa, where he commonly resided with the Grand Duke, 
and read him his histoiy. With these interviews Cosmo was 
much delighted and only interrupted the author occasionally 
with a cry of admiration, " MiracoU, Varchi, MiracoU /" 
Varchi took advantage of one of these moments of satisfaction 
to ask permission to change the vulgar name of Topaja, which 
was very displeasing to him, for that of Cosmiano, but the 
Grand Duke ingisted on his adopting the appellation of Var- 
chiano. The polite struggle which ensued prevented any inno- 
vation — the ancient name prevailed — and the house still bears 
it, being always called Topaja (a nest of rats). 

Besides his history, Varchi in this place wrote several other 
works, and particularly his Ercolano, one of his most agree- 
able productions. At the head of this work he gives a descrip- 
tion of his house. He speaks of the walk in the green field 
before his door ; of his herb-garden, in which he seems to 

Voyages and Travels, No. 5, Vol. Ill, M 



g2 Castellan's Traveb in Italy. 

have taken much delight ; and of dining t^te-a-t^te in the 
Httle terrace, whence, amid a thousand other beautiful objects, 
Fiesole and Florence were discovered. 

He did not live a solitary life here. His friends visited him 
daily, and sometimes remained whole weeks with him. At 
last he became so habituated to their company, that he could 
not live without society. Indeed there was not one man of 
letters, or of any consideration, who did not visit him, so 
agreeable was he, and so much honoured and esteemed. The 
year of the death of this celebrated historian is not well known, 
as many authors disagree as to the fact ; his epitaph at Florence 
however bears the date of 157 1 • 

La Topaja having been restored to its former owners, the 
Grand Duke Cosmo III. ornamented it with a great number of 
pictures of rare foreign fruits, and the most singular produc- 
tions of the earth, with descriptions of them written under- 
neath. This collection, which was made by a prince who was 
an amateur in these sort of things, was afterwards divided be- 
tween the Villa Real di Castello and other places. 

The villas of Castello and Petraja, of which a description 
will be given, are very celebrated for the excellence of their 
wines. The plants are procured from Spain, from the Canaries, 
from France, and from the most celebrated Islands of the 
Archipelago. Redi found in this excellent Muscatel an inspi- 
ration which burst out in a dithyrambic, where he sings — 

Ma lodato 

Celebrato 

Coronato 
Sia I'eroe, che nella vigna 
Di Petraja e di Castello 
Pianto primo il muscadello. ( 

Come, let us raise 

A song in his praise 

And crown him with bays ; 
For he is an hero, an excellent fellow, 
Whose hand in the vineyard that glows at Castello 
First planted the stock of the true muscadello. 

But of all the delicious places which the voluptuous Romans 
of the Augustan age did not disdain, none is more celebrated 
and less frequented than the palace of Pratolino, a beautifiil 
spot buried in the heart of a wood, and which I only discovered 
by chance. Friendship detained me here some time, and I 
quitted it at last with that pleasing regret which forms in our 
after-life such an agreeable theme of recollection 



Rural ineidmf,. 83 

LETTER XII. 



Gathering Cherries — Visit to Pratolino — Story of Francesco de 
Medici, and Bianca Capello. 

JETTING out aione, to enjoy the pleasures of the chace, 
the eager pursuit of my prey had gradually drawn me to a 
considerable distance from Fiesole, and I completely lost my 
way in the intricacies of the mountains. The day was wearing 
away, and the heat became overpowering. Uncertain as to 
what path I should pursue, I looked in vain for a human coun- 
tenance to succour me in my wanderings, and at last, sinking 
with fatigue, half-famished and ovei-whelmed, I directed my 
steps to a wood, Avhere I calculated at least on finding a shel- 
ter from the sun. It was an orchard of cherry-trees, and to 
increase my happiness, I perceived a peasant who had climbed 
into one of the trees, and was gathering the fruit, which he 
threw into a large basket, supported on the head of a young 
girl of ten or twelve years of age. 

This group appeared to me very beautiful, but just at this 
time the cherries possessed the greatest attraction for me; 
upon my offering to buy some of the fruit the owner answered 
me quickly, that he did not sell them retail, but in baskets 
full. " Cannot you, at least," said I, " permit me to select a 
few for my refreshment ?" at the same time shewing him a 
piece of silver. " Hold your hat," he answered, " and you 
shall have the best." He filled it in spite of me, although I 
told him I had more than enough, and that the rest would be 
all wasted. " I must give you the worth of your silver," said 
he, still showering them down. The conscience of this man 
was inexorable, and the fruit being very abundant and cheap, 
I should have been overloaded if I had allowed him. 

After making a delicious repast, for the young girl offered 
me a piece of a thin light cake Avhich she had kneaded her- 
self, I began to think of returning to Fiesole, and inquired 
the way of my friend. " You are far enough off," said the 
villager, " and you had better go to Pratolino, which is in the 
neighbourhood ; the agent will show you all sorts of hospitality 
in the name of our dear Archduke." Delighted with the ac- 
cident which had conducted me to a place I had so great 
a desire to visit, I followed his advice, and my conductor 



84 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

^.-continued to talk in the florid language of Tuscany. " Do 

you see that mountain shaded by the great chesnut trees, and 

in the midst of that green spot, the burning windows of that 

old edifice ? Go along this side, leave the house on your left, 

and you will see a pathway where the fountain throws up its 

c sparkling waters, and rolls away along the green-sward; then 

follow^ the windiil^s of the stream, and it will serve you as a 

guide through the leafy darkness; when you come to the 

meadow you may take your time, for you will soon reach the 

gardens of Pratolino ; you Avill have no longer need to follow 

the banks of the stream, for you will see on a hill-side the 

bouse of the agent. A ])leasant walk to you," said he, " good 

X bye — may the Avoods afford you a pleasant shelter — may the 

winds refresh you, and the benediction of a poor man procure 

you peaceful slumbers." The young girl seconded the good 

^.wishes of her father by a gentle sigh, and a graceflil court- 

■■-'sey. 

I gaily resumed my way, well refreshed and well directed, 
yet not Avithout frequently turning my head to look back at 
the beautiful Italian, Avho called out, "Don't lose sight of 
the ruins, the fountain by the side, and the stream that mur- 
murs over the turf." These sweet Avords, repeated by the 
echo, died in murmurs on my ear, till I could no longer per- 
ceive the fair villager or her father, AA'hom the foliage of the 
wood hid from my vIcaa^, nor even the clump of cheny-trees 
to which I OAved so much. 

At the entrance of the Avood I met a man AA^ho offered to 
conduct me to the factory, Avhither he Avas going himself; 
the kindness and politeness of the inhabitants of these regions 
assured me of a pleasant reception at Pratolino. I met with 
marvel after marvel ; for, after pursuing a Aery uncA'en path, 
through AAhich my conductor guided me, forcAvarning me 
against making false steps over the more unequal parts, I Avas 
absolutely overwhelmed Avith astonishment, Avhen on arriving 
at my destination I found that the guide to whom I had en- 
trusted myself, was blind ! He Avas, indeed, a man of great 
intelligence; the acuteness of some of his faculties had been 
carried to such perfection, that lie manufactured a number of 
A^ery delicate mechanical instruments, and, in fact, became 
clock-maker to all the neighbourhood. 

The little adA^entures of the day gained me a very gracious 
. reception from the agent and his agreeable family ; they com- 
^.■^ pelled me to partake of the supper to Aviiich they \A^ere just 
'^^''sitting doAvn, and aa^c deferred till to-morroAv exploring the 
^''retreat of Bianca Capello, the enchanting habitation of a new 
"^ '^Armida. . 



Pratolino-^Bianca Capello» 85 

Erected in the sixteenth century under the directions of 
one of the Medici, the Villa real di Praiolino united all the 
grandeur, beauty, riches, and ingenuity, which that remark- 
able age could furnish ; and although now only the shade of 
what it was, it still preserves so many charms, and recalls 
such memories, that a description of it cannot but possess 
considerable interest. 

In 1569, Francesco, the son of Cosmo de Medici, wishing 
to possess an agreeable retreat in the country bought a vast 
tract of land, situated six miles from Florence, on the shelving 
side of Monte Morello ; it was a savage, rough spot, covered 
with wood, and irrigated with numerous streams ; the air 
was fresh and healthy, and although this valley was but a few 
miles from the capital of Tuscany it was uninhabited. It ap- 
peared consecrated to mystery and silence, yet it was destined 
to become the secret asylum of beauty, of that Bianca Ca- 
pello, whose singular history presents a striking example of 
the vicissitudes of fortune, and of the terrible changes which 
wait on the votaries of love and ambition. 

Francesco de Medici, like the generality of Princes, had 
married from motives of policy ; his wife was a Princess of the 
House of Austria, more virtuous than amiable, and better 
fitted to inspire respect than love. The young Prince only 
beheld in this union a golden chain, the weight of which he 
attempted to alleviate, by giving himself up to his taste for 
the fine arts, but from which he was too well disposed to dis- 
embarrass himself. 

In the mean while, Bianca, the daughter of Bartolomeo 
Capello, a noble Venetian, arrived at Florence, already known 
by her beauty, her weakness, and her misfortunes ; she had 
fled from her own country, and now sought protection from 
the Prince of Tuscany. A young man of no fortune, but ac- 
complished and beautiful as herself, had carried her off from 
the bosom of her family : the Capellos denounced him to the 
Council of Ten, and he was condemned to die. This fair and 
unfortunate pair found an asylum in the Court of Florence, 
where the adventures of the beautiful Venetian awakened the 
curiosity and compassion of Prince Francesco : the latter feel- 
ing was nearly allied to love, and the husband of Bianca hav- 
ing been assassinated by his enemies, the passion of the Prince 
became unbounded ; it would indeed have been difficult to 
break the charm, for Bianca, to her natural attraction, joined 
artifices which could not fail to ensure her a triumph ; in 
turn she played off all the vivacity of her wit, her attractions, 
her graces, and even her caprices, to amuse the melancholy 
humour of her lover: in this manner she became necessary 



86 Castellan' sTravels in Italy. 

to him, making him forget his domestic grievances, and 
neglect his affairs — love had tied the knot, habit confirmed it, 
and each day drew it still closer. 

To enjoy less disturbance Francesco had resolved to retire 
with his mistress to the solitude of Pratolino. He entrusted 
to an ingenious artist, of the name of Buontalenti, the duty of 
embellishing the scene of his retirement. A magnificent palace 
and superb gardens appeared, changing this savage spot into 
the most enchanting residence. Here was assembled a 
brilliant court of which Bianca became the sovereign. The 
Grand Duke's love knew no bounds; every thing y^^as lavished 
on the objeot of his attachment. She was the aim of all 
pleasures, the idol of all homage. The great nobility of the 
state, the ministers, the courtiers, were all of them at her feet, 
and she alone dispensed places and favours, while the Grand 
Duchess could scarcely obtain those common marks of respect 
which were due to her rank. The chagrin which she ex- 
perienced from the constantly increasing triumphs of her rival, 
and the weakness of her health, were too much for her to 
resist, and she died in giving birth to a dead child. The Grand 
Duke shed many sincere tears 5 he reproached himself as the 
cause of this calamitous accident, and he fled at last from his 
palace suffering all the agonies of remorse. He wandered 
about for some time in the most solitary places of Tuscany, 
avoiding sedulously the presence of his seducer. He was 
weak, however, and his resolutions were soon forgotten ; re- 
tirement, public opinion, nothing could withhold him, and he 
again delivered himself up to the undisturbed indulgence of 
his passion. 

Bianca, during the life of her husband, had made the Grand 
Duke swear on a consecrated image that she should be his 
princess, should they both become free. Weak promise ! Yet the 
madness which had dictated it still continued. The daughter 
of the Capellos usurped the place of Jane of Austria. The 
marriage, which was solemnized secretly, Avas not made 
public until after the appointed time of mourning had expired. 
The new sovereign princess was then adopted by the republic 
of Venice, and declared a true and peculiar daughter of 
St. Mark ; and as she did not appear to be inferior to two other 
daughters of the saint, one of whom had been married to the 
king of Hungary, and the other to the king of Cyprus, the 
republic decreed to her the royal crown. This ceremony, at 
which a deputation of Venetian senators assisted, was one of 
the most brilliant which had ever been seen. Balis, carousals, 
tournays, vcUegiature, or rural parties, bull-fights, and encoun- 
ters of wild beasts followed one another without cessation. 



Death of Francesco de Medici and Bianca Capello. 87 

The Grand Duke, fatigued with the affairs of govern- 
ment retired ag-ain to Pratolino, where he was reposing 
in the bosom of pleasure, when his son died, the only fruit of 
his former marriage, and the heir of the family of Medici. He 
might perhaps have fovmd consolation beneath this infliction, 
had he had any expectation of a family by Bianca, but of this 
he now despaired, and, not having adopted the son which she 
had borne him before their marriage, he fell into a state of 
melancholy. 

Inclosed in his retreat, far from the palace, which only re- 
called the memory of his son, and from the city, the inhabitants 
of which he had alienated from his authority, invisible to his 
people, and rarely seeing even his minister, he had no other 
consolation than the company of tlie Grand Duchess. Solitude^ 
luxury, and the want of occupation, inflamed his passions and 
placed him completely in the power of this woman, to whom 
all the calamities which Tuscany at this period suffered were 
attributed. Hatred, however, v/as changed into pity, when 
the calamity was known which terminated at once her existence 
and that of her husband. 

The circumstances of this affair do not appear to have oc- 
curred in the common course of things : the causes and the 
details of it are alike unknown, and they have been differently 
explained. Those who love the marvellous have collected a 
thousand fables more or less absurd on the subject; others 
have alleged poison as the instrument; but the problem still 
remains to be solved. 

Whatever the real facts may have been, it is known that the 
Cardinal de Medici had always been the enemy of Bianca 
Capello, and that he never pardoned his brother for forming 
this degrading alliance. Some pretend to say that the Grand 
Duchess, who had resolved to avenge herself, seized the oppor- 
tunity of the Cardinal's visiting her in the absence of her hus- 
band. She prepared for her brother-in-law some pastry, which 
she knew was very agreeable to his palate ; in this a subtle 
poison had been mingled: the Grand Duke, returning from the 
chace, and hungry from exercise, unluckily found this poisoned 
meat and ate a large quantity of it. Bianca hearing the in- 
telligence, and desperate at the idea of having poisoned her 
husband, resolved to share his fate, and the poison in both 
instances taking effect at the same moment, they both expired 
in inexpressible tortures, Avithout the Cardinal permitting any 
one, as it is said, to afford them succour, which circumstance 
has made him pass as the author of this calamity. , ,, 

One of the historians of the Medici, Galuzzi, has endeavoured 
to prove the incorrectness of this account. He confesses. 



98^ Castellan's Travels in Italy, 

however, that the Cardinal de Medici, who under the name of 
Ferdinand succeeded his brother, persecuted Bianca even after 
her life had expiated her crime, and sought even to extinguish 
the remembrance of her. In fact, he ordered the body of this 
unfortunate creature to be conveyed to the common cemeter)'^, 
where she was confounded with all the ignoble dead; and 
soon afterwards he ordered the arms of the Capellos to be ob- 
literated from all the public edifices where they had been 
quartered with those of the Medici, and he substituted in their 
place the bearings of Jane of Austria. 

Don Antonio, whom Francesco had recognised as his natural 
son, had resolved, if possible, to establish a right to the crown ; 
but the Cardinal Ferdinand gave him to understand that unless 
he contented himself with his station and quality of prince, 
he would declare him to be the son of a locksmith, who, as he 
asserted, was his real father. Don Antonio, who had much 
good sense, acceded to the determination of the Grand Duke, 
and was made a Knight of Malta, Grand Prior of Pisa, and 
Lord of Capestrano. He lived in the royal edifice in the 
gardens of the Medici, where Lorenzo the Magnificent had 
established his school of Arts. This prince, in imitation of 
Francesco, devoted himself to the studies of the occult sciences. 
He also established a printing-press at that place. 

The morals of Francesco had a great influence over those 
of the age. His weakness towards Bianca was productive of 
great evils. Every body and every thing in the state had been 
rendered subservient to the caprices of this woman. She 
made offices venal, justice arbitrary, and ministers servile, and 
the prince himself became a passive instniment in her hands 
which she wielded at will. The court of Florence, the richest 
and most polished one in Europe, was a model to the princes 
who sought to imitate the Grand Duke in his taste for magni- 
ficence and pleasure. Gallantry became a fashion which spread 
abroad the most scandalous consequences, divisions in families, 
and private animosities. But of all its evil effects the most 
deadly was that relaxation of morals which is even now tole- 
rated, which gained ground and influence insensibly, and 
which has served succeeding ages as a model and an excuse. 

On the other hand, the taste of this prince for the arts, and the 
encouragement which he lavished on artists, instead of giving 
genius an impelling motion, seemed only to extinguish or to 
enervate it. It almost makes one think that the arts are the 
children of Luxury, who, like Satuni, ends by devouring his 
offspring. 

The reign of Francesco de Medici, though favourable to 
the fortunes of artists, prevented them from making any 



Pratolino. ^^ 

nearer approaches towards perfection. This honorable career 
became the path of ambition, and the productions of art be- 
came the furniture of the auctioneer's sale-room. Taste in- 
deed was becoming more general. Festivals and spectacles 
became, as it were, essential to the happiness of every rank. 
The liveliest emulation reigned in every class of society, and on 
all sides arose the most gorgeous monuments. This species of 
luxury was in the highest vogue amongst the rich and powerful 
princes of Italy. Francesco, however, piqued himself on sur- 
passing all the others. He boasted particularly of his archi- 
tectural talents, and he used to display to his inquisitive guests 
the palace of Pratolino as the work of his own invention. 

But the glory of the Medicean age was about to set for ever. 
The splendid light which had illuminated Europe began now 
to fade in the dearth of aliment. The dispersion of the school 
of RafFaele, and above all, the death of Michael Angelo, had 
left a void which it M^as impossible to supply. Nevertheless 
the arts still flourished in appearance ; there was no want of 
ready and amiable talent; luxury, gallantly, pleasure, still" 
inspired the hand of the artist — the master-age was pa?* 



J ETTER XIIL 



Description of the Palace and Gardens of Pratolino. 

i\MONGST the numerous and magnificent palaces of the 
sovereigns of Tuscany, that of Pratolino is acknowledged to 
be most worthy of the traveller's attention. The hand of na- 
ture had prepared the elements, that of the artist had only to 
reduce them to shape and symmetry. The forests which co- 
vered the ground, needed only the axe in certain parts, or to 
be formed in others into avenues. The thick tufts of trees, 
when pierced by winding path-ways, were transformed into 
retired asylums and inextricable labyrinths. On all sides foun- 
tains sparkled up which did not demand the human hand to 
guide them. Their waters were either collected in vast basins, 
or flowed through channels open to the air, or forcing their 
way through canals from which they sprung in jets, they then 
fell in cascades, carrying along into every part their freshness 
and the gentle murmur of their motion. 

These woods composed of firs, laurels, and other ever-green 
trees, seemed the asylum of perpetual spring. To provide for 
the pleasures of the chace and angling, the park was stocked 

Voyages and Travbls, No, 5, Vol, JII, N 



90 Castellan's Travels in Italy, 

with wild animals, and the waters were filled with fish of every 
species. The gardens were under the management of expe- 
rienced gardeners, who transplanted thither the rarest trees 
and flowers, and brought to perfection the fruits of all nations. 
In short this retreat called to mind the delicious abodes which 
the voluptuous emperors of Rome retired to, in pursuance of 
the counsels of Epicurus, to lay down the purple and to crown 
themselves with the roses of pleasure. 

The presiding idea of him who constructed the palace, 
seems to have been to form an abode of mystery. In fact, 
travellers pass by the route of Bologna, only a short distance 
from Pratolino, without the least suspicion that the forest 
which they behold, contains a royal mansion — not a single 
avenue announces it. A single, narrow, unequal way leads to 
a square in the centre of the park where the house is situated, 
in such a manner as not to be seen until you arrive before it. 
This vast court is surrounded by a railing supported and united 
by pilasters of the rustic Tuscan order. On the left side, in 
front of the palace, and beyond the trellis-work, there is a 
large tract of ground covered with trees, at the extremity of 
which, the colossal statue of the Apennines rises in majesty. 

There is an air of grandeur in the general disposal of the 
palace and the objects which surround it, but the plan of the 
building, and its exterior decorations, are not conformable. 
The architecture has been praised on account of the numerous 
apartments being lighted without the aid of interior courts; 
In the building is contained a handsome theatre. Several 
organs, distributed in different apartments, and played by 
means of water, produce the effect of a great number of dif- 
ferent instniments, and give the hearer a good idea of the style 
of music of the sixteenth century. We shall give a more de- 
tailed account of the grottos, which have frequently served as 
models for things of this kind. 

A person must have resided in Italy, or in some other 
torrid climate, to be able to appreciate the delight which the 
shade, the murmurs, and the flowing of waters can procure. 
There the rich find the means of cheating nature, and provide 
retreats into which they may retire from the fer\' ors of summer. 
The aphorism of Rousseau, which at first appears like a pa- 
radox, is founded in the strictest truth, that cold is best pre- 
served in hot countries. There the houses are constructed on 
a plan adapted to the climate. The walls are very thick, the 
windows fcAV and narrow. Every advantage is taken of a 
current of air when it can be procured; living waters distri- 
bute in each apartment a reviving freshness by their moist 
evaporations, and as a last combination of all that is cool. 



Pratolino. 91 

they imitate nature in the formation of artificial grottos, which 
abound with all the advantages which such places afford. 
— They cover them with stalactites, shells, and marine pro- 
ductions; and they thither lead numerous springs, which mur- 
mur or leap through those subterraneous abodes. But, in spite 
of all they can do, they only obtain at last, with great cost, a 
feeble imitation of the marvels which Nature has produced 
"without effort. 

The grottos of Pratolino are situated in that part which is 
exposed to the south. They occupy the level ground beneath 
the terrace which surrounds the castle, and serves it as a base. 
You descend by a double staircase, in the form of a horse-shoe, 
to an esplanade in front of the grottos, which forms a second 
terrace lower than the first. On the side of the gardens it is 
cut off precipitately, on account of the declivity of the ground, 
but the lateral extremities are on a level with the grass plot. 

The distribution of the grottos, although they are unequal 
in size and grandeur, is remarkable for the advantages which 
have been taken of the situation in which they have been con- 
structed. They are all of them vaulted, and rest on beautiful 
columns of marble. One certainly cannot too much admire 
the brilliancy of the interior decoration, which is nearly the 
same through them all. The walls and the vaulted roofs are 
ornamented with stalactites, madrepores, marine plants, corals, 
shells, and mother-of-pearl; and all those objects are mingled 
with paintings in Mosaic. Everywhere one sees statues of 
marble or of bronze, which cast streams of water into basins of 
marble or of gilded lead. These waters, by secret passages, 
flow beneath the pavement, and escape into the gardens, where 
they are again applied to a thousand different purposes. 

Amongst the statues, many are to be attributed to celebrated 
artists, and are no less remarkable for their composition than 
tbeir execution. The most beautiful have been transported to 
Florence ; yet, notwithstanding, there are several left worthy 
of observation. 

The Grotto of the Deluge is the first the stranger arrives at : 
it is so called from the quantity of water which flows in it, not 
only from the ceiling, but from the walls, and even from the 
pavement. When you enter it, you are completely in the 
power of the fountain players, who can inundate you without 
the possibility of your avoiding it, for the fountains bar the 
passage, and even reach you on the esplanade ; the pavement 
of which, constructed like that of the grotto — of small round 
stones of various colours, and arranged in compartments, so as 
imitate Mosaic work, is pierced by innumerable holes, through 
which a multitude of little spouts of water issue. .„„,„. 



92 Castellan's Travelsjn Italy, 

It may be added, that we may not have again to return to 
this subject, that every sort of surprise, and all arts of deceit, 
are used to entrap the curious. — Sometimes the commodious 
seats which invite them to repose themselves break with their 
weight, and duck them in an unexpected bath : — sometimes 
a ladder is placed as if it led to some curious object, but 
scarcely have you placed your foot on the first step, when a 
catch goes off, and unmasks a fountain, which rushes direct 
into your face : — sometimes, M'hen you are least expecting it, 
a marine monster, or some other strange figure, rises, — rolls 
its eyes on you, opens its mouth, and covers you with a flood 
of water. 

In a colder climate this sort of amusement would prove 
somewhat inconvenient. It is, however, foreseen ; no one is 
exposed to it against his will, and you may avoid it by proper 
precautions. 

The Grotto of the Samaritan is one of the most curious, 
from the numerous mechanical inventions of Buontalenti, 
which force the water into action. There is a sort of theatre, 
in which several complicated movements successively take 
place. The cave represents a hamlet composed of huts inter- 
mingled with trees. — The door of a house opens, and a beauti- 
ful village girl comes out, carrying a vase, and approaches one 
of the fountains to draw water.— Her movements are veiy 
natural, and her body possesses a kind of suppleness and grace. 
She arrives at the fountain, fills her vase with water, places it 
again on her head, and returns towards the cottage; not, 
however, without frequently turning round her head to gaze 
at a shepherd seated near, who seems to admire her, and who 
attempts to prevail on her to stay and listen to his music. On 
the sides of the theatre, a blacksmith opens his shop, and is 
seen busily employed with his workmen in the labours of the 
forge: — a miller, also, carries sacks of grain to a mill, the me- 
chanism of which is most complete. — In the distance is heard 
the sound of horns and the barking of dogs, and we are enter 
tained with the representation of a hunt: many wild animals 
run across the bottom of the stage, pursued by a pack of 
hounds and hunters. — In the foreground, birds, perched in the 
branches, pour forth their song; and swans and ducks are 
seen sporting in the waters. 

A theatre placed opposite to the former represents the attack 
and taking of a fortress. There are also several other me- 
chanical inventions, all very ingenious, and astonishing, when 
we consider the period at which they were executed. 

The grotto delta Stuffa, or of the Bath, is small, but orna- 
mented very carefully with madrepores and corals, from which 



Pratolino. ^ 

an exceedingly fine rain escapes, or rather a tepid mist, which 
sinks into the basin of the batli. This basin occupies the centre 
of the grotto : it is of red marble, and is supplied at will with 
cold or warm water, from two satyrs of bronze. From the 
grottos you descend into the gardens by two magnificent flights 
of steps. 

In the construction of these grottos it seems as if all the 
resources of the most inventive art had been exhausted to 
obviate the attacks of heat ; though one would almost think it 
impossible to preserve the liumidity and freshness of this arti- 
ficial atmosphere. Nevertheless, they have here contrived, 
under the influence of a fiery sky, to create a new temperature, 
of the most equal mildness; comparable indeed with that ot 
the gardens of Arm ida, the delusions of which were probably 
intended to be here realized; unless, as we have already in- 
sinuated, Tasso himself has copied the gardens of Pratolino. 

On leaving the grotto which we have just described, you 
'enter a magnificent avenue of fir trees and tufted laurels, 
which, extending along an insensible declivity for about nine 
hundred feet, is mingled at its extremity with the masses qf 
wood which cover the neighbouring mountains. 

The grotto of Cupid, the fountain of Esculapius, the urns, 
the tombs, and the statues, which people these woods with 
recollections, attest the respect of the Medici for the precious 
monuments of art and antiquity — here rises Mount Parnassus, 
with the statues of Apollo and the Muses ; Pegasus is boimd- 
ing from the summit of the mountain, whence also a limpid 
stream starts, the sound of which is mingled with the 
notes of a musical instrument, which is played by water — 
there rise fountains, ornamented with groups of statues, re- 
presenting fabulous personages, or scenes from common life. 

That temple of such architectural elegance is consecrated 
to love and the graces I This rude grotto, covered with moss, 
forms a slielter from the storm — to such a cave Dido and 
iEneas retreated. A ray of light piercing the rocky cieling, 
enables us to distinguish the verses of Virgil carved on the 
marble. 

In the midst of a retired spot, a stream flows through the 
scented shrubs, giving increase to the waters of several little 
lakes, which are completely surrounded with large forest 
trees ; a light skift' conveys you to an islet covered with the 
thickest foliage, where a seat of turf covered with daisies is 
the only ornament of the thicket — retired from the gaze of the 
world, shut out from every interruption, here you can medi- 
tate at leisure, invited to contemplation rather than disturbed 
by the murmur of the leaves, and of the Avaters. From out 



94 Castellan's Travels in Italy, 

the myrtles and the rose hushes rises a cohimn, on which are 
engraved some verses consecrating the stillness of this retreat 
to the divinity of mystery. 

Such are the gardens of Pratolino, such is the vast enclosure 
fenced in by a curtain of impenetrable forests, where Fran- 
cesco de Medici forgot fame and honour in the lap of plea- 
sure. The seductive Bianca Capello was the queen of these 
solitudes ; frequently armed with the symbols of Diana, and 
surrounded like her' with her nymphs, she traversed the woods 
to the sounds of horns and warlike music ; more frequently, 
however, in the diviner habit of the queen of love, she wan- 
dered through these paths with her lover, consecrating the 
places which witnessed their delights, with monuments, alas ! 
more durable than their happiness. 

Having now given some account of the palace and gardens 
of Pratolino, I shall proceed to say something of that extraor- 
dinary work the Colossus of the Apennines. In front of the 
castle I have said there lies an open space of ground about 
300 feet in length, and 100 in breadth; this piece of ground is 
bordered on each side by loity fir trees and beeches, the 
trunks of which are hidden by tufts of laurels, in which are 
placed niches for statues ; the middle of it is covered with 
turf, and farther on a piece of water extends itself in the 
shape of a half-circle, behind n hich rises the colossal statue of 
the Apennines. 

Rising from an elevated and apparently irregular base, 
to which you arrive by two flights of steps which follow the 
semicircular bend of the basin, this statue at first appears to 
be a pyramidal rock, on which the hand of man has rudely 
attempted to execute the project which the statuary intended 
to work on Mount Athos, and M'hich Alexander had the proud 
wisdom to reject ; but on a second view we recognize the 
genius of a pupil, and worthy rival of the great Michael An- 
gelo. 

John of Bologna, inspired by the writings of the ancients, 
executed in this work, the idea which they formed, and 
have transmitted to us of their Jupiter Flu vi alls, a name 
much more applicable to this figure than tliat of the Colossus 
of the Apennines, which has been attributed to it one knows 
not why. The; style is grand, and the character of the head 
is perfectly suited to the subject ; his bushy temples brave the 
storm, and seem covered with a hoar frost ; his hair descends 
like icicles upon his large shoulders, and the locks of his 
beard resemble stalactites. In order to add to the extraordi- 
nary effect of this Colossus, a sort of crown is placed on his 
head formed of small Je^« d'eav. which fall upon his shoulders^ 



Colossits of the Appemiines, 95 

and rolling over the whole figure make it sparkle in the rays 
of the sun. 

The position is good, setting and bending forward, the God 
rests one hand on a rock, whilst the other presses the head of 
a marine monster, which spouts a large volume of water j 
although by this position much of his height is lost, his head 
still overtops the trees, and standing off from the blue heavens 
almost seems to touch the clouds ; it would be difficult to 
imagine a more picturesque and perfect composition in all its 
proportions ; when you gaze on it you perceive no enormous 
disparity with the objects around, so well does it harmonize 
with all that surrounds it, and you only conceive an idea of 
its real magnitude, by comparing it with the groups of pas- 
sengers, which, when seen at a certain distance, resemble 
pigmies : if we suppose this giant standing up, it would not 
be too much to say, that he would be an hundred feet in 
height. 

In the interior of the body there are several apartments, 
and in the head there is a beautiful chamber, to which the 
eye-balls serve as windows j the extremities are constructed 
of a coarse laying of stones ; the trunk is formed of bricks 
covered with mortar or cement, which has acquired the hard- 
ness of marble, but which when fresh must have been easily 
worked, and capable of taking the requisite impressions. 

It is said that many of the pupils of John of Bologna who 
were employed on this work, when they came to execute 
figures of ordinary dimensions, found that in their giant 
labours they had lost their exactness of eye and skill of hand. 

The untenanted Pratolino is now a melancholy spectacle j 
the vast apartments, the long galleries, formerly ornamented 
with pictures or rich hangings, now only display the naked- 
ness of uncovered walls ; the mosaic pavements are covered 
with dust, and the wind sobs through the broken casements. 
This beautiful place, now almost forgotten, attracts only the 
traveller, whose affection for the arts prompts him to search 
for them in the midst of the ruins, w hich the hand of time 
and the negligence of man have accumulated. 

In the gardens, the walks, formerly so level and covered 
with the finest gravel, are now broken into gutters, or 
choaked up sometimes with briars, and sometimes by the 
enormous branches of some pine which has been struck with 
lightning; every thing has broken from out the bounds in 
which they were anciently confined; the walls are crumbling 
away ; and in the midst of the disjointed statues, parasitic 
plants spring up, and fasten their clasping fingers, covering 
them with a sombre verdure. The virgin vme climbing 



"96 Castellan* s Travels in Italy, 

round the columns, mingles its light garlands with the ara- 
besque ornaments which run along the friezes, and which are 
themselves only an imitation of this natural and rustic decora- 
tion. 

A few marble statues arc still standing, but they are all 
mutilated, or if any of them are still perfect, they owe their 
preservation to the thorny shrubs which surround their base. 
Mosses and lichens however are destroying what even man 
appears to have been forced to respect. Every where art slowly 
yielding to nature has nothing to oppose to her but her own 
massiness and vis inertice. 



LETTER XIV. 



Campo-Santo-— Description of the Pictures — Convents of the 
Apennines — TJie Hermit — Conclusion. 



L HE distance between Florence and Pisa is traversed with 
such facility and pleasure, that it is more like taking a walk 
than a journey. There is no country which abounds with more 
beautiful prospects, or where cultivation is better understood, 
or which is inhabited by a race whose exterior announces more 
ease, sweetness, and urbanity. The fields are like gardens, 
and the rivers resemble canals bordered with picturesque edi- 
fices, connected together with garlands of foliage, flowers, and 
fruits. There is no exaggeration in this picture. The banks 
of the Arno are planted with fruit trees, round which the vines 
cling, and their branches intertwining with one another, form 
garlands of the most picturesque beauty. 

I enjoyed with great zest my visit to the celebrated Campo- 
Santo, where the artist can form an exact idea of the revival 
of painting, since he finds there specimens of the earliest mo- 
dern painters, not dispersed and confounded with other works, 
which must necessarily throw them into the shade, but united 
and following one another in regular progression. By this 
means he can judge ot the affiliation of picturesque ideas, and 
of their successive developement, till he arrives at the works 
of the great artists of the sixteenth century, who carried 
painting to the highest pitch of perfection. 

The Campo-Santo is a most magnificent building ; the inside 
is coated with black marble, and the outside is covered with 



Campo Santo. 97 

lead : the interior of the building is most rich in architecture^ 
sculpture, and painting. It was intended to be used as a place 
of sepulture for the principal inhabitants of Pisa, and to per- 
petuate, by inscriptions and other funeral monuments, the 
memory of those persons who had distinguished themselves in 
science or the arts. 

The shape of the edifice at first view appears to be a right 
angle, but it is in fact slightly rhomboidal, that is to say, the 
corners are not exact right angles. The pavement of the 
cloister is formed into different compartments of various co- 
loured marbles, and these compartments display monumental 
stones, on which are engraved the names and the arms of the 
ancient families of Pisa, to the number of more than six hun- 
dred. Under the arcade there are placed some ancient Sar- 
cophagi, supported on brackets ; they amount in number to 
about six hundred, and they all of them have covers or lids - 
most of them are of Parian marble; they are ornamented with 
mythological or similar subjects, and, from the inscriptions 
which yet remain on them, they are of Etmscan or else of 
Grecian or Roman origin. Notwithstanding this, most of the 
Sarcophagi contain the ashes of noble Pisans. 

Before the erection of the Campo-Santo these tombs were 
ranged around the Avails of the cathedral. Being afterwards, 
about the year 1297, placed outside of the cloister, where they 
were exposed to total destruction, they were collected under 
the arcades by Ferdinand de Medici, who gave a proof of his 
love for the arts, by causing them to be deposited in the place 
which they now occupy. Nevertheless, whether it was owing 
to the ignorance of those who were entrusted to convey them, 
or whether the dilapidated state, in which some of the sculp- 
tures were, made them look upon them as unw^orthy of their 
attention, certainly a great quantity, and those too of the most 
valuable kind, were neglected. They are all of the best age 
of sculpture, and have served as models to the early Pisan 
artists, whom we may call the restorers of sculpture. 

Independently of these Sarcophagi, there are other antique 
monuments dispersed here and there on the walls, as well as 
a variety of modern tombs erected at different periods. We 
will finish what we have to say of these curiosities before we 
describe the singular paintings which cover the walls of this 
immense edifice. 

Near a miliary column, on the ancient Via Emilia, there is 
an antique bas-relief, which has been long supposed to have 
been wrought in commemoration of a cage of iron, in which 
an enormous serpent was enclosed in 1109 by the skill of a 
man called Nino Orlandi, and carried in triumph through the 

Voyages and Travels, No. 5, Vol. IIL O 



98 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

streets of Pisa. It is said the marble was sculptured and placed 
on this spot in memory of this strange achievement, Avhich 
has been mentioned bv many historians. I rather thmk that 
there is veiy little credit due either to the tradition or to the 
inscription/ which was only made in 1777; for one view of the 
monument plainly shews that the bas-relief bears no traces of 
a cage or a serpent, while the marble indicates an age stdl 
more remote than the fact in question. This marble is in fact 
only a fragment of an antique sarcophagus. 

Amongst the ancient tombs there is one bearing the follow- 
ing inscription : — ■ 

D. M. T. MLIUS. AUG. LIB. LUCIFER. FIBUS. {vivus) SIBL 
POSUIT. 

In fact, amongst the ancients there are many examples of 
people who, not having any great confidence in their heirs, 
have raised their own tombs in their life-time, in order to be 
sure that their names would reach posterity. The Campo- 
Santo presents a modern instance of this singular precaution. 
It is the tomb of Filippo Decio, a lawyer of Milan, and a pro- 
fessor in the university of Pisa. We shall only quote the last 
words of the inscription, which are curious : — 

. hoc sepulcrum sibifabricari curavit, ne posteris suis crederet. 

Amongst other modern tombs that of Matteo Corte, a phi- 
losopher and physician of Pavia, is curious : it was built in 
1544 by order of the Grand Duke Cosmo. The statue reposing 
on the cenotaph is from nature ; the drapery is fine ; the head 
rests upon the right hand, the fingers of which are lost in the 
curls of his long beard; his left hand holds a closed book. 
The skilfiil sculptor seems almost to have given a new and 
eternal life to his model. 

It is well known that Tuscany had the honour of mainly 
contributing to the revival of the arts in modern times. The 
Pisans distinguished themselves by the eifectual encouragement 
M^hich at this period they afforded, and the Campo-Santo be- 
came the theatre in which, successively, the most celebrated^ 
pictures of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuiy were displayed. 
Here you see passing in review, as it were, Giotto, Simon de 
Sienna, Buffalmacco, Piero Laurati, the Brothers Orcagna, 
Spinello d'Arezzo, Taddeo Bartoli, and lastly, Benozzo Goz- 
zoli, who surpassed them all, and who, in concert with his 
coteniporary Masaccio, gave existence to that new style, which, 
superseding that of Giotto, spread itself abroad throughout 
Europe, and more especially in Flanders, and served as a 
model for the great masters of the following age. 



Campo Santo. 99 

It is very curious to see, in the pictures of Campo-Santo, 
painting" rising through various stages to perfection. As we 
trace it, we see it casting off its early rude clothing, assuming 
a form of simplicity, and then of elegance, then attaining 
beauty and natural graces, till it at last reaches that sublime 
and ideal beauty, beyond which all is exaggeration — the rock 
on which art founders when the boundaries of reason are once 
passed. 

The first paintings, which you see on the left, are descriptive 
of the life of St. Ranieri, the protector of Pisa. There are six 
in immber, and in two lines ; the three higher ones are attri- 
buted to Simon Memmi di Sienna, and those below to Antonio 
called Veneziano, from his having painted many pictures at 
Venice : he was however born at Florence, where he learned 
the art of painting under Angelo Gaddi. Simon Memmi was 
the pupil of Giotto, according to Vasari, but according to the 
conjectures in the Lettere Senesi^ he appears rather to have been 
a pupil of Francesco Jacopo di Turrita. He commenced about 
the year 1300, and painted till 1344. You remark in his pic- 
tures more grace and less hardness than in those of his cotem- 
poraries. He was particularly celebrated for his skill in por- 
trait-painting ; and Pandolfo Malatesta sent for him to Avignon 
to take the portrait of Petrarch. The poet begged him to 
trace for him the features of his beloved Laura, and he recom- 
pensed him with two sonnets in his praise, which will form a 
more lasting monument than any of his paintings. 

Dante had already immortalized Giotto in those well known 
verses — 

Cedette Cimahue nella pittura 

Tener lo campo, ed ora Giotto il grido 

Siche la Jama di colui osciwa. 

Giovanni Villani, the historian, calls him the most cele- 
brated master of his day, and Angelo Politiano commences 
the sepulcral inscription which was raised by the command of 
Lorenzo de Medici, with these words : — 

Ilia ego sum per quern picturu extincta revixit. 

Giotto has also contributed to the embellishment of the 
Campo-Santo. The paintings which represent the history of 
Job added so greatly to his reputation that Benedict XI. sent 
for him to Rome, and entrusted him with the execution of se- 
veral pictures, of which only some very slight remains are 
now to be found. 

On the same side are seen some paintings of Spinello Are- 
tino, which are not very excellent ; and as you return on the 
western side are some of Ghirlandajo, and a few of more mo- 



100 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

deni date, executed in the places of those which have been 
destroyed. 

We' now arrive at the northern part of the cloister, where in 
the first compartments we see the history of the creation, 
painted by Buonamico Buffalmacco, a pupil of Andrea Tafi. 
The first of these pictures occupies the whole height of the 
cloister, and presents a gigantic figure of the eternal Father, 
embracing and sustaining the whole celestial system, such as 
it was conceived to be at this period. Then follow the prin- 
cipal facts in Genesis to the Flood. The pictures of this artist 
are remarkable for their simplicity, and even grace, and for 
the justice of movement and expression which they display, 
though they have a dryness of contour and a stiffness of fonii, 
which betray the infancy of art. In representing Noah's Ark 
he has given the exact forms of various mechanical instruments. 
The costume of his figures is extremely simple and pictiu'esque, 
with the exception of the shoes, which are long and pointed 
beyond measure. His perspective is veiy bad. The paintings 
which follow are the work of an artist who was a man of ge- 
nius, Benozzo Gozzoli, much admired in the fifteenth centuiy, 
and by the greatest painters of the following age, to whom his 
works served as models ; but who was despised as soon as he 
was surpassed. All eyes and all hopes were turned to that ele- 
vated station where sat Michael Angelo and Raffaele. Nothing 
else was studied but their works, and no account was taken of 
those who had pointed out the way. In the pictures of this 
artist those seeds of talent are discernible which grew to bril- 
liant maturity in the works of Raffaele. Divinity is repre- 
sented in a becoming manner, while the simple grace and an- 
gelic beauty of his virgins and heavenly ministers, the noble 
and severe character of his patriarchs, and in one word the 
whole variety of his phisiognomies are all exceedingly appro- 
priate and true to nature. In design he is easy, though not 
without force. The proportions of his figures are elegant, 
their postures are noble and graceful, and their movements are 
just and expressive. His draperies are large, and adjusted 
with taste. His colouring often possesses vigour and bright- 
ness, and his tints are skilftilly managed. Gozzoli may be 
considered the precursor of Raffaele. The pictures of this 
artist at Campo-Santo are twenty-three in number, occupying 
in two rows a space of three hundred and twenty-four feet, 
with the exception of five pictures by other artists. It is 
scarcely possible to believe, although tradition and historical 
evidence agree upon the fact, that these pictures commenced 
in 1434, were completed in the space of two years, a most ter- 
rible enterprize, fit, as Vasari says, to frigl^ten a whole legion 



Vov: roi .j/i.v^r. 




CKi'l-"!!' O - PORTICr S . 



(hmpo Santo. 101 

of painters, when one takes into account the time absolutely 
necessary for subsisting the bodily powers only, still more 
above the capacity of one man, whatever might be his active 
facility. We can only account for the fact, by supposing that 
Benozzo was assisted by his pupils. 

Many of these pictures are almost entirely destroyed. Some 
of them have been retouched, and the rapid approaches of 
the destruction which threatens those in the best state of 
preservation are visible. They are daily falling in por- 
tions from the walls. An ingenious engraver, who has been 
employed in preserving these specimens of art to after times, 
has had the chagrin of frequently seeing fragments of figures 
crumbling before his eyes, which he was just about to copy. 
It has been remarked with surprise, that under the stucco, 
which is pretty thick, and on the wall which is exposed by the 
falUng of the mortar, the painters appear to have traced the 
outline of their composition in a red tint, and that this sketch, 
very wonderfully, has a perfect correspondence with the con- 
tours of the painting executed on the stucco, although the 
plaister must have completely concealed the first labour I 

The pictures of Rondinosi, a Pisan artist, painted about 
1666, follow those of Gozzoli. As we gaze on them we invo- 
luntarily repeat the verse of Dante : — 

Non favellar di lor ma guarda e passa. 

The chapel at the bottom of the Campo-Santo, which is sur- 
mounted by a cupola, was erected by the Archbishop Carlo- 
Antonio del Pozzo, and was consecrated in 1593. 

Over the altar is seen a picture by Aurelio Lomi, painted in 
1595, which represents St. Jerome with a pair of spectacles on 
his nose. This anacronism is common with several painters, 
ignorant that spectacles were not invented till the twelfth 
century. 

Andrea Orgagna, or Orcagna, was a sculptor, a painter, 
and a poet, and a great admirer of Dante. His picture of the 
Last Judgment, though filled with a prodigious number of 
figures, is yet vei7 simple in the distribution of the various 
groups, and veiy clear in the exposition of the subject. 
Scarcely was this picture finished, when Orcagna was recalled 
to Florence to execute some work of sculpture. He entrusted 
to his brother Bernardo the continuation of the subject, per- 
haps after his own sketches : — the subject was Hell, alia Dan- 
tesca, or in the manner of Dante. 

The prince of Italian poetry made such an impression on the 
spirit of his cotemporaries by his poem, that the painters 
knew not how to represent Paradise or Hell, except in the 
shape which the great poet had given them. Giotto painted, 



102 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

about 1306, these subjects in the church dell' Arena at Padua ; 
and it is said that Dante, then in that city, used to watch him 
at work and suggest ideas to him. The same imitations ap- 
pear to run through all the paintings of this period, both Ita- 
lian and German. The picture in the Campo-Santo is evi- 
dently painted after the Hell of Dante. The painter however 
has exaggerated the ideas of the poet, and there is no extrava- 
gance which he has not permitted himself to use in expressing 
the torments which the infernal ministers inflict on the damned 
— Tuili sonpien di spirti maladetti, e di serpenti di diversa mena. 
But I have no room for further description. 

The travellers who generally visit Italy, and whose principal 
aim is the examination of the monuments of antiquity, or of 
those objects of art which adorn the principal cities of this 
country, have neither leisure nor desire to wander out of the 
well-beaten track in order to visit places which are not well 
known, or which they fear would not repay their trouble. Of 
this number are the convents dispersed amongst the Apennines, 
which are scarcely known even to the pilgrims, naturalists, 
and landscape-painters. To the latter the rugged situation of 
the convent of Vallombrosa presents the finest contrasts with 
the pleasant scites of the rest of Tuscany. 

The mountains of the Apennines, though less lofty than the 
Alps, are yet covered with snow the greatest part of the year ; 
and the forests which shade these summits are the asylum of 
perpetual freshness. One cannot therefore traverse them with 
pleasure unless during the summer. It was at the end of that 
season, and in the hope of finding some new food for study, 
that I undertook this little journey Avith a skilful French artist. 
We were furnished with letters of recommendation to the su- 
perior of the convent of Vallombrosa, and with the necessary 
permission to prolong our stay after the usual time allotted to 
ordinary travellers or pilgrims. We were also particularly ac- 
quainted with one of the monks, a zealous friend of the arts 
and artists. 

On leaving Florence we followed the banks of the Arno, 
pursuing the course of the stream for several leagues. This 
road, which winds through the fruitful Val d'Amo, is sheltered 
with poplars and aspin trees, around whose trunks the vines 
cling, throwing their arms from one tree to another, and 
tying them together with garlands loaded with fruit. The 
casinos and farm-houses, built on the side of the mountain, 
display specimens of elegant architecture, and embellish 
the country. The Florentines resort to these pleasant 
retreats to enjoy all the delights of the finest part of the 
season, to inhale the freshness of the dells revived by a 



Villages of the Apennines. 103 

thousand springs, and to breathe the scented air which 
pours from tlie orange and lemon-trees. This part of the 
country is well peopled, and we met troops of peasants 
who were bending their steps towards the churches and ora- 
tories, which are scattered in great numbers throughout this 
territory. 

The festival days which one sees here almost transport one 
to Fairy Land. The sumptuary laws of Leopold have only 
been acted upon in the towns ; and to behold the elegance of 
the villagers one would really think that luxury had fled into 
the countiy. Every young girl on her marriage brings as her 
dowry three complete habits of silk of various colours. Their 
little petticoats of rose-coloured or azure silk display a beauti- 
ful foot and an ancle bound with a knot of ribbands ; the 
sleeves of their corsets are tied up with many little bows of 
roses, and iheir hair, separated into tresses, flows under a yel- 
low or black straw bonnet, bordered with ribbands, and orna- 
mented with a bouquet of flowers. 

In proportion as we approached nearer to the mountains the 
casinos and the farm-houses became more thinly scattered. 
We left the beasts that carried our luggage at a little village 
which lay at the foot of the rocks, which seemed in a manner 
to form the base of the chain of Apennines, and which horses 
could not ascend without great difficulty. By this means we 
gained a greater power of leisurely observing the picturesque 
features of these mountains. A steep path-way which followed 
the windings of the ground led us to the first summit, where 
we found a forest of chesnut-trees. 

It was not until we had surmounted many of the crests of 
the mountains that we discovered the immense forest of firs, 
by which the convent is environed, and which forms a dark 
green curtain in which the summits of this part of the Apennines 
are hidden. Up to this moment we have experienced, in its 
full power, the ardour of an Italian sun. Our guide advised 
us to stop when we reached the chain of woods, whose frigid 
and dangerous influence we now began to feel. In fact, when 
you enter these venerable and almost interminable forests, a 
sudden cold pierces you, and you almost imagine yourself 
transported to the solitary and humid vallies of Switzerland. 
The firs seem all equally old, and planted in a regular quin- 
cunx shape. The multitude of trunks shuts out all light from 
around you ; the foliage growing thicker as it ascends forms 
above your head a vaulted roof, impenetrable to the rays of 
the sun. There are no traces of vegetation on the ground, 
which is covered with a collection of withered leaves and 
branches, so deep that the successive accumulation forms a bed 



104 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

which does not retain even the print of the passenger's 
foot. 

Indeed all things perish under the shadow of the fir trees, 
which may be classed with those parasitic plants which absorb 
the juices of the earth, to the destruction of all neighbouring 
vegetables. This quality, however, causes neither expense to 
the cultivator of the land, nor injury to the proprietor; since 
it is the means of destroying many noxious plants, for the sake 
of that nourishment which supported them. Attached to the 
soil of its birth, this tree flourishes in the place where its pre- 
decessor perished"; unlike most trees, which, having absorbed 
the richness of the earth, leave nothing to their successors but 
an impoverished soil, incapable of affording them nourishment. 

When the monastery first breaks upon the sight, it forms an 
imposing contrast to the wild and savage forms which surround 
it, and presents, in the length of its edifices, almost the ap- 
pearance of a city. A square tower, rising above the other 
buildings, and furnished with a clock, the sounds of which 
alone break the solemn stillness of the air, was the only thing 
which bore signs of the monastery being inhabited ; for as yet 
we had not encountered a single mortal since our entrance 
into the forest. We were only disturbed by the noise of the 
wind, Avliich beat against the branches ; and I do not believe 
we saw, amid the depths of these shades, any other living 
creatures than the troops of squirrels which lived on the fruits 
of the fir trees. On arriving before the monastery, the grass 
plots, the immense courts, were all deserted and solitary ; and 
it was not until we had rung for a considerable time at an iron 
grating, that we were attended to, and at last introduced into 
the hail which is set apart for the reception of strangers. 

The monks were at church; but the Father P , who 

waited on us, received us with great attention, and led us to 
some very pleasant cells, where nothing that could be useful 
or agreeable to the tired and rejoicing traveller was forgotten. 

He wakened us on tlie following morning, and reminded us 
that it was proper we should return thanks to Heaven for the 
happy termination of our journey. — ^These good monks, of 
whom very few have ever been absent from their convent for 
years, consider a walk of eighteen miles a very long journey ; 
and, although they seem totally to have renounced the world, 
they yet eagerly questioned us respecting what was passing 
there. 

Father P did the honours of the convent in a most 

pleasing manner ; he was our Cicerone, and our guide in all 
our picturesque excursions. I cannot describe in detail the 
various edifices which compose this immense building. The 



Hermitage of Paradisino, 10& 

walls which surround the monastery are" sufficiently lofty to 
protect it from any sudden surprise; but the monks have 
nothing to dread from the inhabitants of the country, to whom 
they have proved themselves the kindest benefactors. 

We have been shown all their treasures of rich relics and 
other ancient works; and, amongst other pictures of the 
fourteenth century, we have discovered two fine heads of Ma- 
saccio. The cabinet of natural history contains a collection of 
petrifactions of different kinds, amongst which are some fossil 
bones and teeth of the elephant, found in Val-d'Arno and the 
Val-di-Nievole. 

In the neighbourhood of the convent there is a hermitage 
called Paradisino, situated, like the nest of an eagle, on the 
summit of an isolated rock. The objects by which it is sur- 
rounded, and, above all, the mountains which environ it, are of 
so gigantic a character, that the building itself seems only like 
a small ruin detached from an immense mass. A headlong 
torrent mshes down the steep sides of the rock, threatening it 
Avith destruction. — ^To reach Paradisino you pass over a bridge 
thrown across the torrent, and at the extremity of which you 
find a chapel. A large avenue of firs, planted on the steep de- 
clivity, shade a paved road, which is passable even by carriages; 
soon afterwards, however, you arrive at a i)athway constructed 
with much labour and art, which follows the sinuosities of the 
land, and winds in a spiral shape round the rock. The path is 
sometimes only separated from the precipice which yawns be- 
neath it by a barrier formed of the interlaced branches of young 
trees ; and, notwithstanding this safeguard, the bellowing of 
the cascade, and the rapidity and shock of its waters, from 
which a thin humid vapour rises, astound the ears of the 
passenger, and fill his heart with a sentiment very like terror. 

When you arrive on the terrace of Paradisino, you imagine 
yourself transported to another world, and your charmed eye 
stretches over the wide prospect. — The opening of the valley 
serves as a frame for the most picturesque beauties of all kinds. 
The foreground is filled with hanging rocks, through which 
dash fierce torrents ; some fallen trees offer a temporary ob- 
struction, but the waters soon loose themselves in the deep 
obscurity of the forests, which stretch to the borders of the 
valley where the towers of the abbey burst upon the view. 

On the other side the aspect of the country is changed. — It 
is less wild, and, although mountainous throughout, there are 
more signs of cultivation. — It is traversed by streams bordered 
with rural edifices and intermingled with wood. Further on, 
stretches a vast plain, and a rich tract of country, watered by 
a majestic river, on the banks of which rise the temnles, the 
Voyages and Travels, No. 5, Vol. III. P 



106 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

palaces, and the towers of Florence ; and the landscape is 
closed with the mountains of Lucca and the sea of Tuscany. 

Evening is the time for enjoying this sublime prospect. At 
the moment when the sun approaches the horizon, the sea seems 
all on fire; an inflamed vapour marks out the different ranges 
of mountains ; while the deep vallies are already in dimness, 
adding by their sombre verdure to the effect of the picture. 

As soon as we arrived at the gate of Paradisino, we rung the 
bell; and the hermit, opening the gate of that part of the 
building which he inhabited, admitted us. — He lighted a fire 
by which we might dry ourselves, and oflTered us some of his 
humble provisions, which hunger, excited by violent exercise, 
rendered extremely palatable to us. 

This man, though now very old, appeared still endowed with 
prodigious force and energy. — His white bristly hair, his im- 
mense beard, his aquiline nose, his fiery eye, sparkling under 
a thick eye-broAV ; in short, his whole physiognomy, gave him 
more the appearance of a satyr than an anchorite. 

Ic was not without trouble that we could prevail on him to 
suffer his portrait to be taken ; at length, however, he con- 
sented, and seated in his usual position, with his body a little 
bent, and his hands crossed on his beads, his countenance as- 
sumed that expression of calmness and reflexion which be- 
comes a repentant sinner. The conversation soon afterwards 
falling on the Avars which desolated the north of Italy, 
the face of the hermit was touched with a character of fierce- 
ness, and his features were changed to those of an animated 
warrior ; by degrees his eyes began to sparkle, and almost to 
strike fire, and we soon recognized under the hermit's cowl, 
the outlaw at whose name Italy had formerly trembled. 
*' Why," cried he, fiercely, " why have I renounced the 
world, whilst my country is menaced with invasion ? At the 
voice of Fornacciaio many a brave fellow would rush forward 
to shake off" the yoke." He accompanied these words with some 
very strong imprecations, then all at once casting himself on 
his knees, he besought pardon of God for this burst of earthly 
passion, and lay for a long time j^rostrate on the ground. 

We endeavoured to restore him to calmness, and telling 
him how his words had excited our curiosity, he consented 
out of pure humility to relate to us the history of his ci"imes 
and of his repentance. i 

The name of Francesco Fornacciaio is well known through- 
out all Italy, and more especially in Lombardy, where it is 
still the terror of the children^ — the latter countiy was the 
theatre of the many bold and open robberies of this man, who 
^vas the Captain of a disciplined troop of banditti : he took 



Francesco Fomacdaio, the Outlaw. 107 

possession of a castle, which he converted into his retreat . 
there, after overrunning the country with his band, he re- 
turne d to divide the fruits of successful violence. 

T'ne situation of the castle, fortified by nature, protected 
the.ni for a long time from the terrors of justice, and it was at 
last found necessary to besiege it with cannon and regular 
troops, to dislodge the robbers, of whom a great number were 
surprised. Fornacciaio escaped almost alone, but a price 
was immediately set on his head ; he wandered about a long 
time oppressed with fear and remorse, until at last he volun- 
tarily surrendered himself into the hands of justice, and ex- 
periencing the clemency of the Pontiff, in consideration of his 
repentance he was absolved from his crimes : from this mo- 
ment he took the resolution of devoting himself to the life of 
a hermit, and entreated permission to bury himself in the 
solitudes of the Apennines. 

For many years he lived an austere penitent in a damp 
,^rotto; at length he was with difficulty prevailed upon to 
transfer his habitation to the hermitage of Vallombrosa, his 
perseverance in this course being esteemed a proof of his 
harmlessness. 

One of the most singular circumstances in the life of this 
man was related to us by the Prior of the convent; Fornac- 
ciaio had passed it over in silence and humility. — Being in the 
neighbourhood of Sinigaglia, the Governor of the Castle, who 
wished to gratify his private revenge, cast his eyes on this 
man, as a person whose intrepidity and hardy enterprize ren- 
dered him well adapted for his purpose. He sent for him to 
hear his proposal, on the execution of which he promised him 
a pardon, and an oblivion of all his crimes, and moreover a 
safe conduct. Fornacciaio, without hesitation, accepted the 
safe conduct and waited on his employer ; at his ajjproach the 
gates opened, but they shut on him as he entered ; he betrayed 
no fear, however, but was presented to the Governor, who 
took him aside, and made him acquainted with the murderous 
designs, which were to be the price of the pardon. Fornac- 
ciaio answered with indignation, " Do you take me for a vile 
assassin ? Know that I have never killed any one, but in fair 
combat face to face, and I would not though it should save my 
head, commit in cold blood so cowardly and guilty a deed." 
The Governor then threatened to arrest him, but the robber 
reminding him of his promise of safe conduct, and drawing 
two pistols from underneath his mantle, swore that if he called 
for assistance he would take his life, and then sell his own 
as dearly as possible. The Governor, trembling gave him 
permission to retire, but Fornacciaio obliged him to unfasten 



]08 Castellan's Travels in Italy. 

the doors himself, and to accompany him out of the castle gates.* 

I cannot quit this country without giving some account of 
an excursion, which we made to the most elevated summit of 
this part of the Apennines. 

We remarked, what a celebrated Tuscan naturalist had al- 
ready observed in other parts of Italy, that about half way up 
the mountains the woods of chesnut and fir trees disappear, 
and nothing is found on the summit but immense beech trees, 
which with firs are the primitive and indigenous trees of the 
mountains of Tuscany ; one perceives as the ground rises a 
gradual diminution in the size of the trees : on the sides of the 
mountains of great magnitude as they approach the summit 
they become rough and tufted, and bear fruit in great abundance. 

From the summit, (which is covered with a very fine 
herbage, or rather with a thick moss, and extremely slip- 
peiy,) one of the most elevated of the Apennines, we took 
a survey of all Tuscany ; it was spread like a vast map 
beneath our eyes, where we could distinguish all the rami- 
fications of the mountains which separated the provinces 
into vallies ; the streams spread over the land like threads of 
silver ; the towns and villages seemed like accumidations of 
grains of sand, and the city of Florence, notwithstanding all 
its colossal monuments, seemed only like a single point in this 
immense plain 5 in the west the Mediterranean distinctly 
bordered the horizon ; on the opposite side the Adriatic flowed. 

I shall not attempt to describe the various scites, which 
furnished us with numerous subjects for oiu* ])ictures during 
the remainner of our stay at Vallombro'^ Eveiy day we 
made fresh discoveries of this kind, while ti. varied scenes 
which this wild country presented, and chc peaceable and 
quiet life which we there led amid solitudes which invited us 
to study, prevented us from feeling any lassitude. 

I have, I doubt not, forgotten a number of objects which 
well merited description, and this account will convey but a 
feeble idea of Vallombrosa ; it may, however, serve to excite 
in the minds of artists a desire of visiting this ancient monas- 
tery, and they will not repent of their pilgrimage. 

THE END. 



* Some time after our visit, the hermit was found dead at the return of 
spring. If we may believe pubhc report, this man, although reclaimed from 
many of his ancient errors, still nourished a vice which the rigour of ihe 
cold to which he was sometimes exposed in winter rendered somewhat ex- 
cusable. The unlimited use of strong liquors is said to have produced a 
spontaneous combustion, which consumed his body without burning his 
cloaths. The common people, always fond of the marvellous, attributed this 
death to the divine vengeance. 

Printed by Benjamin Bensley, 
Bolt-court, Fleet-street. 







U>K 



\U"^N \M !-■'■. ^w ^-^ i 



^5^-~76/ 



V 






^^k ,■ 



«^ 








■'^*^' 




%,. 



Y"-«''^V^^ 




^f-'SJisxisA 







."»» 



^-■■'^.i>< ir awi -^ « 






