Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  general ions  on  library  shelves  before  il  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

Il  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  diflicult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  marginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  have  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parlies,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  plus  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  from  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attribution  The  Google  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  b<x>k  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 

countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  il  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liability  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.  Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  hooks  while  helping  authors  ami  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  I  lie  lull  text  of  this  book  on  I  lie  web 
at|http  :  //books  .  qooqle  .  com/| 


Ml 

JbarbarB    Slnibfrflitg                                                  1 

libra™  of  tjjr  BiMnitg  £d)ool                           * 

A    MKT                                                                                                        | 

from  the  library  of  tht>  lata                                  1 
CHARLES  CARROLL  EVERETT                             i 
Dean  of  the  School,   LB78-H 

lit    Ootobov    lOOS 

I 


i 


THE  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  FRANCES 

BARONESS  BUNSEN 

VOL.  L 


J»_ 


m      *     •% 


rOT 


i  LI     ■■ 


*     1 


.  » 


•  t 


) 


1 


6> 


THE 


LIFE    AND    LETTERS 


or 


FRANCES 


BARONESS  BUNSEN 


By  AUGUSTUS  J.  C.  HARE 

AUTHOR  OF  M  MEMORIALS  6>  A  QUIRT  UFB,"  ETC. 


**  The  happiest  periods  of  history  are  not  tbose  of  which  we  hear  the  most ; 
in  the  same  manner  as  in  the  little  world  of  man's  soul,  the  most  saintly  spirits 
are  often  existing  in  those  who  have  never  distinguished  themselves  as  authors, 
or  left  any  memorial  of  themselves  to  be  the  theme  of  the  world's  talk,  but  who 
have  led  an  interior  angelic  life,  having  borne  their  sweet  blossoms  unseen." 

BroatUton*  0/  Honour, 


IN  TWO  VOLS.— I. 


I 


NEW  YORK 
GEORGE  ROUTLEDGE  AND  SONS 

416  BROOME  STREET 
1879 


From    the    lihrTv    <•* 

Prof.   C.   C.   I]  .-eretf 

19    Oct    1QOf> 


TO 

THE  CHILDREN  AND  GRANDCHILDREN 

OF 

THE  BARONESS  BUNSEN 

THESE  V0LUME8 
ARE     AFFECTIONATELY     DEDICATED. 


PREFACE. 


rpo  write  the  Life  and  edit  the  Letters  of  the  Baroness 
"**  Bunsen  was  a  task  for  which  many  members  of  her 
own  family  were  better  qualified  than  myself,  but  I 
gratefully  undertook  this  labour  of  love  in  accordance 
with  the  strongly-expressed  wish  of  her  descendants, 
having  the  consciousness  that,  except  her  own  children, 
no  one  could  have  a  more  tender  and  reverent  affection 
for  the  dear  and  kind  friend  of  my  whole  life.  The 
story  of  her  surroundings,  of  the  vicissitudes  through 
which  she  passed,  and  of  her  actions  with  their  aims 
and  endeavours,  is  told  in  her  own  words.  With  the 
memorials  of  one  who  wrote  so  much,  and  who  always 
wrote  what  was  worth  reading,  the  only  difficulty  has 
been  selection.  Thousands  of  letters  have  been  neces- 
sarily omitted,  which  nevertheless  had  a  charm  of  their 
own.  Enough,  I  trust,  is  still  left,  to  pourtray  the 
continuous  chain  of  her  loving  and  loveable  life,  and  to 
lift  the  reader  for  a  time  into  the  pure  and  lofty  atmo- 
sphere of  her  heart  and  mind. 

Augustus  J.  C.  Hare. 


CONTENTS  OF  VOL.  I. 


^     ■  - 


CHAP.  P40I 

L  FAMILY  INFLUENCES 1 

IL  RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD 29 

m.  HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVEB 63 

IV.  BUNBEN 91 

V.  MARRIAGE Ill 

VL  SHADOWS 165 

Vn.  THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY 221 

VIII.   ABSENCE 280 

IX.  ROMAN  SUNSHINE 320 

X.  LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME 410 

XL  THE  FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND          •          •          •         •  477 


CHAPTER  I. 

FAMILY  INFLUENCES. 

"  Lives  of  great  men  all  remind  us 
We  can  make  our  lives  sublime. 
And,  departing,  leave  behind  us 
Footprints  on  the  sands  of  time ; 

"  Footprints,  that  perhaps  another, 
Sailing  o'er  life's  solemn  main, 
A  forlorn  and  shipwrecked  brother, 
Seeing,  shall  take  heart  again." 

Longfellow. 

ANE  of  the  figures  which  excited  most  attention  amid 
^  the  multitude  who  thronged  the  terrace  of  Wind- 
sor Castle  during  the  happier  years  of  the  reign  of 
George  III.,  was  that  of  the  venerable  Mary  Granville, 
Mrs.  Delany,  who  resided  at  Windsor  in  her  old  age, 
as  the  honoured  and  cherished  friend  of  the  King  and 
Queen.  No  one  then  living  had  more  interesting  recol- 
lections to  relate  than  the  beautiful  old  lady  who,  as  a 
child,  had  sat  on  Lord  Bolingbroke's  knee,  and  had 
been  set  down  as  Maid  of  Honour  by  Queen  Anne ; 
who  had  been  intimate  with  the  most  remarkable  cha- 
racters of  the  reigns  of  George  I.  and  George  II.,  and 

VOL     T.  b 


2  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

whose  sense,  wit,  and  natural  sweetness  of  disposition, 
had  been  wont  to  gather  the  most  brilliant  literary 
circle  in  Europe  around  her  tea-table  in  St.  James's 
Place.  It  was  of  her  that  Edmund  Burke  said  that 
she  was  "  not  only  a  truly  great  woman  of  fashion,  but 
the  highest-bred  woman  in  the  world."  "  Time,"  says 
Hannah  More,  "  took  very  little  from  her  graces  or  her 
liveliness,  and  at  eighty-eight  she  had  still  the  play- 
ful charm  of  eighteen,  honoured  by  all  who  approached 
her,  and  loved  by  all  with  whom  she  associated."  * 

Mary  Granville  was  the  elder  of  the  two  daughters 
of  Bernard,  grandson  of  the  famous  Sir  Beville  Gran- 
ville, who,  in  1643,  lay  dead  upon  the  battle-field  of 
Lansdowne  Heath,  with  the  patent  of  the  earldom  of 
Bath  in  his  pocket,  and  a  letter  from  Charles  I.  grate- 
fully acknowledging  his  services  and  his  devotion. 
"  What  would  have  clouded  any  victory,"  says  Claren- 
don, "  and  made  the  loss  of  others  less  spoken  of,  was 

the  death  of  Sir  Beville  Granville A  brighter 

courage  and  a  gentler  disposition  were  never  married 
together  to  make  the  most  cheerful  and  innocent  con- 
versation." At  the  Restoration,  the  elder  son  of  Sir 
Beville  became  the  first  Earl  of  Bath,  and  his  younger 
son  Bernard,  who  had  carried  the  news  of  the  Restora- 
tion to  Charles  II.  at  Breda,  was  made  Groom  of  the 
Bedchamber.  This  Bernard  had  two  sons,  George,  Lord 
Lansdowne,  celebrated  for  his  accomplishments,  and 
as  the  friend  of  Pope  and  Swift ;   and  Bernard,  who 

*  Memoirs  of  Dr.  Burney,  iii.  56. 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES.  3 

married  the  daughter  of  Sir  Anthony  "Westcombe 
(Consul-General  of  Great  Britain  at  Cadiz),  and  left 
four  children,  Bernard,  Beville,  Mary,  and  Anne. 

The  early  history  of  Mary  Granville  was  a  romance 
and  a  tragedy.  As  a  child  she  was  adopted  by  her 
father's  only  sister  Anne,  who  had  been  Maid  of  Honour 
to  Queen  Mary,  and  after  her  death  married  Sir  John 
Stanley,*  Commissioner  of  Customs,  and  received  a 
grant  of  apartments  in  Whitehall.  Here  little  Mary 
Granville  became  the  intimate  childish  friend  and 
companion  of  her  cousin  Catherine  Hyde,  afterwards 
Duchess  of  Queensbeny,  whose  father  then  resided 
over  Holbein's  Gate,  and  "  whose  wit,  beauty,  and 
oddities,  made  her  from  her  early  years,  when  she 
was  Prior's  '  Kitty,  beautiful  and  young/  to  the  end 
of  a  long  life,  a  general  object  of  animadversion,  cen- 
sure, and  admiration." 

Under  Lady  Stanley's  care  Mary  Granville  grew  up 
brilliant  and  beautiful.  When  she  was  only  seventeen, 
while  she  was  staying  with  her  uncle  George,  Lord 
Lansdownc,  at  Longleat,  he  determined  upon  her 
marriage — partly  to  obtain  a  good  settlement  for  his 
niece,  but  much  more  to  strengthen  his  own  political 
connection  in  Cornwall — with  a  Mr.  Pendarves,  of 
Roscrow,  a  fat,  disagreeable,  ugly  man  of  sixty,  of 
intemperate  habits.  It  was  in  vain  that  Mary  Gran- 
ville remonstrated  and  implored  mercy  ;  in  those  days 
marriages  were  seldom  questions  of  inclination;    the 

*  Of  Grange  Gorman,  Ireland,  Bart. 


4  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BAHONESS   BUNSEN. 

consent  of  her  parents  was  readily  obtained,  Lady 
Stanley  would  not  interfere,  and  Lord  Lansdowne  was 
inexorable.  "  Never/'  wrote  the  unfortunate  bride  long 
afterwards,  "  was  woe  dressed  out  in  gayer  colours,  than 
when  I  was  led  to  the  altar.  I  lost,  not  life  indeed, 
but  all  that  makes  life  desirable."  For  some  months 
Lord  Lansdowne  attempted  to  reconcile  his  niece  to 
her  marriage  by  detaining  her  under  his  roof,  and  en- 
deavouring to  make  her  believe  that  life  was  not  so 
much  changed  as  she  anticipated ;  but  the  time  came 
when  she  had  to  accompany  her  husband  into  Cornwall, 
and  to  take  up  her  abode  in  his  "  dark,  disagreeable, 
desolated  castle,  in  which  her  head  could  not  reach  to 
"the  bottom  of  the  windows."  Mr.  Pendarves  was  almost 
always  intoxicated,  and,  when  sober,  indulged  in  fits  of 
violent  jealousy  about  his  beautiful  wife,  in  spite  of  her 
displaying  perfect  willingness  to  bury  herself  in  utter 
seclusion  to  satisfy  him.  After  two  years  of  misery, 
she  hailed  with  delight  the  hope  of  being  restored  to 
her  friends,  by  her  husband's  determination  to  reside 
in  London,  but  her  pleasure  was  soon  damped  by  find- 
ing that  the  house  he  had  engaged  was  in  Rose  Street, 
Soho,  and  that  she  was  doomed  to  the  constant  com- 
panionship of  his  sister,  who  hated  her.  In  London, 
however,  life  was  more  endurable,  for  amid  the  many 
trials  which,  especially  in  those  days,  lay  in  wait 
for  a  lovely  and  neglected  wife,  she  had  the  advice  of 
her  aunt  Lady  Stanley  and  was  always  willing  to 
follow  her  maxim — "  Avoid  putting  yourself  in  danger, 


FAMILY  INFLUENCES. 


fly  from  temptation,  for  it  is  always  odds  on  the 
tempter's  side."  Her  willingness  to  give  up  any  amuse- 
ment to  stay  with  her  husband,  now  almost  constantly 
confined  to  the  house  by  the  gout,  was  invariable,  and 
he  so  far  appreciated  her  dutiful  submission,  that 
seven  years  after  his  marriage  he  made  a  will  in  her 
favour,  but  on  the  morning  after  he  made  it,  his 
wife  found  him  dead  by  her  side,  and  the  will  was  un- 
signed ! 

Mary  Pendarres  was  only  twenty-four,  when  she 
found  herself  a  widow.  Her  connection  with  Cornwall 
was  broken,  her  husband's  property  having  all  passed 
away  to  a  niece,  so  that  she  continued  to  reside  in 
Londoi}.  She  had  many  admirers,  but  the  only  person 
who  attracted  her  was  Lord  Baltimore,  to  whom  she 
had  nearly  given  her  heart,  when  she  found  she  had 
bestowed  it  unworthily.  This  disappointment,  and  the 
death  of  her  aunt  Stanley,  induced  her  to  accompany 
her  friend  Mrs.  Donnellan  to  Ireland  in  1730,  on  a 
visit  which  was  prolonged  for  three  years.  During 
this  time  she  became  intimately  acquainted  with  Swift, 
Dean  of  St.  Patrick's,  and  with  many  other  eminent 
persons,  amongst  them  Dr.  Delany,  then  recently 
married,  whom  she  admired  for  his  "humanity  and 
benevolence,  charity  and  generosity."  With  Swift, 
Mrs.  Pendarves  kept  up  a  correspondence  after  her 
return  to  England  in  1733,  when  she  had  the  delight 
of  finding  in  her  only  sister  Anne  Granville  all  that 
her  fondest  hopes  could  anticipate,  and  of  cementing  a 


L 


O  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

lifelong  friendship  with  Margaret,  Duchess  of  Portland,* 
the  "  Grace  of  Graces/'  who  was  fourteen  years  younger 
than  herself,  and  whom  she  had  known  from  birth,  but 
with  whom  an  almost  unparalleled  similarity  of  tastes 
and  sympathies  now  united  her  in  the  closest  bonds  of 
intimacy.  In  1740  she  witnessed  the  happy  marriage 
of  her  sister  Anne  with  Mr.  Dewes,  of  Wellesbourne, 
after  which  she  found  her  principal  interests  in  the 
house  of  the  Duke  and  Duchess  of  Portland,  till  Dr. 
Delany,  then  a  widower,  made  her  an  offer  of  marriage. 
This  proposal,  though  opposed  by  her  brother  and  many 
of  her  other  friends,  she  was  induced  to  accept  after 
having  been  nineteen  years  a  widow,  by  her  high 
estimation  of  Dr.  Delany,  and  she  was  married  in  1743. 
In  the  following  year  her  husband  was  made  Dean  of 
Down,  and  she  accompanied  him  to  Ireland,  where  their 
principal  residence  was  at  Delville  near  Dublin. 

In  accepting  Dr.  Delany  as  her  husband,  Mrs.  Pen- 
darves  had  stipulated  to  be  as  little  separated  as  possible 
from  Mrs.  Dewes,  the  beloved  "  sister  of  her  heart." 
Accordingly,  every  third  year  was  spent  in  England, 
chiefly  between  Wellesbourne  and  Bulstrode,  and  from 
1744  to  1746,  the  sisters  were  almost  constantly  in  each 
other's  society,  enjoying  what  they  called  "days 
snatched  out  of  the  shade "  of  the  rest  of  their  lives. 
Even  when  in  the  most  thorough  enjoyment  of  her 

*  Margaret  Cavendish  Harley,  born  1714,  wife  of  "William,  second 
Duke  of  Portland,  was  the  only  child  and  heiress  of  Edward,  second 
Earl  of  Oxford,  by  his  wife  Henrietta  Cavendish  Holies,  only  child 
and  hciicss  of  John,  Duke  of  Newcastle. 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES. 


husband's  companionship,  and  of  his  beautiful  property 
of  Delville,  Mrs.  Delany  felt  a  void  in  the  absence  of 
her  sister. 

"  How  often,"  she  wrote  in  1750,  "  do  I  delude  myself 
with  agreeable  visions.  We  walk  together  from  room  to 
room.  I  show  you  all  my  stores  of  every  kind ;  you  are 
most  pleased  with  my  workroom  and  the  library  within  it ; 
the  Dean  hurries  us  into  the  garden,  there  you  are  more 
pleased  than  with  anything  in  the  house ;  the  fine  prospect, 
the  variety  of  walks,  the  shades,  the  seats,  the  flowers,  and 
the  deer,  all  take  your  fancy;  and  all  our  pleasures  are 
heightened  by  the  dear  little  Mary's  running  and  bounding 
as  we  go  along,  but  alas !  the  vision  is  vanished,  a  cloud 
is  come  over  it  for  the  present,  and  instead  of  enjoying 
your  presence  I  am  addressing  a  letter  to  you  that  must 
go,  by  sea  and  land,  hundreds  of  miles  before  it  kisses 
your  hands." 

Yet  these  were  the  golden  years  of  Mrs.  Delany's 
life,  and  when  her  husband  was  frequently  spoken  of  as 
the  probable  recipient  of  a  vacant  bishopric,  she  only 
dreaded  an  honour  which  must  remove  her  from  her 
beloved  Delville,  and  break  up  a  present  of  which  the 
happiness  was  assured,  for  an  uncertain  future. 

"  I  have  often,"  she  wrote  in  1752,  "  thought  of  late  my 
lot  most  singularly  happy,  more  so  than  is  generally  met 
with  in  this  world  of  woe :  a  husband  of  infinite  merit,  and 
deservedly  most  dear  to  me ;  a  sister  whose  delicate  and 
uncommon  friendship  makes  me  the  envy  of  all  other 


8  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

sisters ;  a  brother  of  worth  and  honour ;  and  a  friend  in 
the  Duchess  of  Portland  not  to  be  equalled,  besides  so 
many  other  friends,  that  altogether  make  up  the  sum  of 
my  happiness." 

In  Ireland  also,  Mrs.  Delany  had  much  pleasure  in 
the  society  of  her  goddaughter,  "Sally  Chapone," 
sister-in-law  of  the  Hester  Chapone,  who  was  the 
authoress  of  the  well-known  "  Letters  on  the  Improve- 
ment of  the  Mind."  This  Sarah  Chapone  was  married 
at  Delville  to  Daniel  Sandford,  of  Sandford  Hall  in 
Shropshire ;  her  second  son,  born  at  Delville,  was 
Daniel  Sandford,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Edinburgh,  in 
whom  Mrs.  Delany  always  retained  an  almost  maternal 
interest. 

In  1760  the  happiness  of  Mrs  Delany  became  over- 
shadowed by  the  failing  health  of  her  idolised  sister. 
She  joined  her  in  England  with  the  Dean,  and  accom- 
panied her  to  Bristol  hot-wells,  where  she  had  the 
anguish  of  seeing  her  fade  day  by  day,  till  her  peace- 
ful death  in  the  following  June.  Mr.  Dewes  was 
compelled  to  be  absent  from  his  wife's  death-bed 
with  his  boys  at  Wellesbourne :  so  that  their  only 
daughter,  Mary  Dewes,  was  alone  with  her  mother 
and  aunt  at  the  time,  and  to  her  in  her  desolation  Mrs. 
Delany  seemed  at  once  to  transfer  all  the  boundless 
affection  she  had  felt  for  the  sister  she  had  lost. 
Henceforward  the  education  and  the  happiness  of  her 
niece  Mary  was  the  chief  object  of  her  life. 

The  loss  of  Mrs.  Delany's  sister  was  followed   in 


FAMILY  INFLUENCES.  9 

1768,  at  Bath,  by  that  of  her  husband,  the  Dean  of 
Down,  to  whom  she  had  been  tenderly  attached.  The 
then  widowed  Duchess  of  Portland  immediately  joined 
her  sorrowing  friend,  and  accompanied  her  to  Calwich 
in  Staffordshire,  the  residence  of  her  brother,  where 
she  was  joined  by  her  beloved  niece.  In  her  elder 
and  only  surviving  brother,*  Bernard  Granville,  Mrs. 
Delany  found  little  sympathy.  He  was  a  high-bred 
and  accomplished  person,  but  stern,  unloving,  and 
unloved.  He  had  lived  longer  than  was  good  for  him 
in  the  society  of  Rousseau  and  others  at  Paris,  and, 
after  his  return  to  England,  a  disappointment  in  love 
had  induced  him  to  dispose  of  that  part  of  the  Gran- 
ville property  which  he  had  inherited  in  Cornwall,  and 
to  purchase  the  estate  of  Calwich/  where  he  established 
himself  wholly  amongst  strangers,  breaking  o{E  all 
family  habits,  and  caring  little  henceforward  to  see 
any  of  his  relations,  except  the  children  of  his  sister, 
Mrs.  Dewes,  who  were  dreadfully  afraid  of  him.  His 
most  constant  associate  in  the  neighbourhood  was 
Rousseau,  who  came  into  the  country,  attracted  by 
the  society  of  Mr.  Granville,  but  refused  to  take  up  his 
residence  at  Calwich,  preferring  to  live  in  the  empty 
mansion  of  Mr.  Davenport — Wootton  Hall  on  Wever 
Hill,  just  above  the  rich  pastures  and  woods  where  the 
monastery  of  Calwich  had  once  occupied  a  sunny  slope 
near  a  small  river  flowing  towards  the  Dove. 

*  Beville  Granville,  second  brother  of  Mrs.  Delany,  had  died  in 
Jamaica  (without  children)  in  1736. 


10  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEX. 

To  young  Mary  Dewes  the  presence  of  "  Monsieur 
Rousseau,"  who  used  to  write  notes  to  her — "  a  ma  belle 
voisine,"  had  been  a  relief  in  her  long  visits  to  her 
formidable  uncle,  and  her  partiality  for  him  rather 
shocked  Mrs.  Delany,  who  wrote  to  her, — "  I  always 
take  alarm  when  virtue  in  general  terms  is  the  idol, 
without  the  support  of  religion,  the  only  foundation 
that  can  be  our  security  to  build  upon."  Another 
constant  visitor  at  Calwich  had  been  Handel,  who  used 
to  play  for  hours  upon  the  organ  there.  A  manuscript 
collection  of  Handel's  music  in  thirty-eight  volumes, 
was  written  for  Mr.  Granville  under  the  direction  of 
the  great  composer  himself.  On  Mr.  Granville's  death, 
in  1775,  he  left  his  property  of  Calwich  to  John  Dewes, 
the  youngest  son  of  his  sister  Anne.  Mrs.  Delany 
was  at  that  time  resident  at  Windsor,  and  on  her 
presenting  her  nephew  to  the  King,  he  desired  that 
Mr.  Dewes  should  thenceforth  take  the  name  of 
Granville.  This  is  the  Mr.  Granville,  brother  of  Mary 
Dewes,  who  is  frequently  mentioned  afterwards  in 
these  volumes.* 

Mrs.  Delany  purchased  a  house  in  St.  James's  Place, 
where,  in  winter,  the  Dowager  Duchess  of  Portland 


*  John  Dewes  or  D'Ewes  who  assumed  the  name  of  Granville,  mar- 
ried Harriet  Joan,  second  daughter  and  co-heiress  of  John  De  la  Bere, 
of  Southam  near  Cheltenham,  and  died  1826.  The  death  of  his  only  son 
John  Granville,  in  1800,  is  described  in  these  memoirs.  He  was  suc- 
ceeded in  his  estates  by  his  nephew  Court  (son  of  his  elder  brother 
Bernard  D'Ewes  and  Anne  eldest  daughter  of  the  above  John  De  la 
Bcre  of  Southam)  who  sold  the  property  of  Calwich. 


FAMILY  INFLUENCES.  11 

spent  every  evening  with  her,  many  other  friends 
dropping  in  around  the  hospitable  tea-table.  The 
summers  were  spent  with  the  Duchess  at  Bulstrode, 
whither  Mary  Dewes  generally  accompanied  Mrs. 
Delany;  indeed  the  Duchess  became  almost  as  fond 
of  "our  Mary"  as  Mrs.  Delany  herself,  and  from 
Bulstrode  Miss  Dewes  was  married  at  Upton  Church 
in  December,  1770,  to  Mr.  Port  of  Ham  in  Derby- 
shire, who  had  changed  his  name  from  that  of  Sparrow 
on  succeeding  to  the  property  of  a  maternal  uncle.  In 
the  following  year,  their  eldest  daughter,  Georgina 
Mary  Ann,  was  born,  and  obtained  her  first  name  by 
being  goddaughter,  as  her  mother  was  before  her,  to 
their  cousin  Georgina  Spencer  (afterwards  Countess 
Cowper)  daughter  of  John,  Earl  Granville,  and  her 
second  and  third  names  from  her  aunt  and  mother.  Mary 
Dewes  had  many  other  children  afterwards,*  but  none 
were  so  dear  to  Mrs.  Delany  as  the  eldest-born,  who 
was  almost  equally  beloved  by  the  Duchess  of  Portland 

*  John,  born  March  15,  1773,  godson  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland. 
George  Howe,  born  August  18,  1774,  called  by  Mrs.  Delany  from  his 
beauty  "my  little  Vandyke :"  who  entered  the  navy  under  Admiral 
Jervia,  and  died  at  Antigua  of  yellow  fever  on  board  H.M.S.  Reprisal. 
Bernard,  born  March  7, 1776,  who  succeeded  to  the  family  Hying  of  Ilam, 
being  the  last  relic  of  the  family  estates  in  Derbyshire,  where  he  was 
greatly  beloved,  and  died  in  1854.  Louisa,  born  April  7,  1778,  who 
married  Mr.  Brownlow  Yillicrs  Layard,  afterwards  Rector  of  Uffington 
in  Lincolnshire.  Beville,  born  January  22,  1780,  who  entered  Lord 
Howe's  regiment  of  19th  Light  Dragoons,  and  died  at  Bungalore  in  the 
East  Indies,  July  6,  1801,  of  a  wound  received  in  action.  Harriet, 
born  June  15, 1781,  who  died  unmarried.  Frances  Anne,  born  April  18, 
1783,  who  married  Mr.  Bam,  of  Clonolten,  Co.  Wexford. 


12  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUN8EN. 

— "  our  little  Portia  "  or  "  our  little  lamb,"  the  two 
old  ladies  called  her — and  the  Duchess  gave  her  an  ivory 
box,  on  the  lid  of  which  was  worked  in  hair  on  satin 
a  little  lamb  sheltered  by  two  old  trees,  intended  to  be 
emblematic  of  the  child  and  her  aged  protectresses. 
When  she  was  six  years  old,   Mrs.  Delany,  fearing 
that  she  might  not  live  to  see  her  great  niece  grow  up, 
wrote  an  "  Essay  on  Propriety  "  for  the  future  forma- 
tion of  her  manners.    In  the  following  year  the  extra- 
vagance of  Mr.  Port  obliged  him  to  let  Ham,  and  the 
"  sweet  bird  "  of  seven  years  old  came  to  live  altogether 
as  a  daughter  with  her  old  aunt  of  seventy-eight.    It 
made  the  sunshine  of  her  life.     "  She  is  everybody's 
delight,"  wrote  Mrs.  Delany  to  Mrs.  Port,  "  so  no  won- 
der she  should  wind  about  my  heart,  being  attached  to 
it  by  the  double  tie  of  being  the  child  of  my  dearest 
Mary,  and  I  could  carry  this  chain  at  least  a  link 
higher."*    The  education  of  her  adopted  child  was 
henceforward  Mrs.  Delany's  chief  occupation,  and  it  is 
touching  to  read  of  the  stately  old  lady  having  pro- 
cured a  master  "  to  teach  us  to  walk  and  curtsy."   Both 
Mrs.  Delany  and  the  Duchess  found  delight  in  instruct- 
ing her  in  botany  and  conchology,  which  were  their 
own  favourite  pursuits,  for  the  collection  of  precious 
stones,  shells,  flowers,  and  rare  animals  at  Bulstrode 
was  already  celebrated  all  over  Europe :  the  birth  of 
a  new  flower  was  an  event  of  life  in  the  circle  of  the 

*  That  to  her  own  aster  Anne  Granville,  grandmother  of  the  little 
"  Portia." 


FAMILY  INFLUENCES.  13 

Duchess,  and  her  correspondence  is  filled  with  minute 
questions  on  botany  and  natural  history.  It  was  a 
marked  day  at  Bulstrode,  when  the  Duchess,  coming 
into  her  friend's  room,  found  her  surrounded  by  paper 
chips,  and  asked  Mrs.  Delany  "what  she  was  doing 
with  that  geranium,"  when,  taking  up  the  beautiful 
flower  lying  on  the  table  which  had  attracted  her 
notice,  she  found  that  it  was  a  paper  imitation  from 
the  hand  of  her  friend.  This,  executed  in  her  seventy- 
fourth  year,  was  the  first  specimen  of  the  wonderful 
Flora  of  paper  which  was  the  principal  recreation  of 
the  latter  years  of  Mrs.  Delany,  and  which  is  still  the 
marvel  of  all  who  behold  it.* 

The  letters  of  Mrs.  Delany  to  her  niece  have 
become  important  as  memorials  of  the  personal  history 
of  George  III.  and  his  family.  Their  visits  to  Bul- 
strode were  constant.  Sometimes  the  Xing  rode  over 
alone  attended  by  a  single  equerry.  Sometimes  the 
Queen  and  Princesses  arrived  in  two  coaches  and  six, 
accompanied  by  the  King  and  a  number  of  gentlemen 
on  horseback.  To  Mrs.  Delany  the  royal  personages 
were  ever  full  of  kindness  and  courtesy.  One  day  the 
King  brought  her  "  a  gold  knotting-shuttle,"  and  the 

•  Horace  Walpole  in  his  u  Anecdotes  of  Painters,"  mentions  Mrs. 
Delany,  who  "at  the  age  of  seventy-four  invented  the  art  of  paper 
mosaic,  with  which  material  (coloured)  she  executed,  in  eight 
years,  within  20  of  1,000  various  flowers  and  flowering  shrubs 
with  a  piecision  and  truth  unparalleled."  Sir  Joseph  Banks  used  to 
say  that  Mrs.  Delany' a  mosaic  flowers  were  the  only  representations 
of  nature  from  which  he  could  venture  to  describe  a  plant  botani- 
cally  without  the  least  fear  of  committing  an  error. 


14  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

Queen  a  frame  for  weaving  fringe  upon.  They  were 
gratified  with  the  pleasure  which  she  showed  in  the 
royal  children,  and  when  the  Queen  remarked  that  she 
had  not  yet  seen  all  of  them,  the  King  said,  "  That  is  a 
fault  which  is  easily  rectified/'  and  desired  that  a  day 
might  be  fixed  for  Mrs.  Delany  to  come  with  the  Duchess 
to  drink  tea  at  Windsor  Castle.  On  this  her  first  visit, 
as  on  many  others,  the  old  lady  was  led  about  by 
the  little  Princes  and  Princesses.  Soon  afterwards  the 
Queen  was  so  gracious  as  to  take  a  lesson  from  Mrs. 
Delany  on  her  spinning-wheel  at  Bulstrode,  and  to 
accept  from  her  the  present  of  a  spinning-wheel :  Mrs. 
Delany  said  that  she  "  forgot  her  infirmities  in  the  cor- 
dial of  royal  kindness.11  As  an  instance  of  the  charming 
manners  which  characterised  the  royal  children  she 
mentions  the  little  Princess  Mary*(afterwards  Duchess 
of  Gloucester)  in  "cherry-coloured  tabby  with  silver 
leading  strings/'  having  forgotten  her  name,  and  com- 
ing up  to  her  with — "  How  do  you  do,  Duchess  of  Port- 
land's friend,  and  how  does  your  little  niece  do  P  I 
wish  you  had  brought  her." 

In  July,  1785,  the  tender  friendship  of  a  lifetime  was 
broken  by  the  death  of  the  Duchess  of  Portland.  Mrs. 
Delany  was  then  in  her  eighty-fifth  year,  and  bitterly 
felt  the  blow.  Her  great  niece,  the  little  "Portia," 
was  immediately  sent  to  meet  her  on  her  return  from 
Bulstrode  to  her  own  house  in  London.  All  her  friends 
vied  in  showing  her  sympathy,  but  that  which  touched 
her  most  was  the  conduct  of  George  III.  and  Queen 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES.  15 

Charlotte,  who  said  that  they  availed  themselves  of  the 
circumstance  that  she  might  miss  her  summer  visits  at 
Bulstrode  to  present  her  with  a  house  at  Windsor,  and 
to  desire  that  she  would  always  move  there  when  the 
court  moved.  At  the  same  time,  with  that  delicate 
attention  which  marked  their  whole  conduct  towards 
her,  the  King  presented  her  with  £300  a  year,  that  she 
might  not  suffer  by  the  expense  of  an  additional  esta- 
blishment ;  while  to  prevent  even  the  appearance  of  a 
pension,  as  well  as  the  possibility  of  the  sum  being 
diminished  by  taxation,  the  Queen  used  regularly  to 
bring  the  half-year's  amount  in  a  pocket-book  when 
she  made  her  a  visit.  A  touching  instance  of  the 
extreme  kindness  of  heart  shown  by  Queen  Charlotte 
at  this  time  is  narrated  in  a  letter  from  Mrs.  Preston  to 
Mrs.  P.  Hamilton — "  As  soon  as  the  Duchess  of  Port- 
land died,  Mrs.  Delany  got  into  the  chaise  to  go  to  her 
own  house,  the  Duke  followed  her,  begging  to  know 
what  she  would  accept  that  had  belonged  to  his  mother. 
Mrs.  Delany  recollected  a  bird  that  the  Duchess  always 
fed  and  kept  in  her  own  room,  and  desired  to  have  it, 
and  felt  towards  it,  as  you  must  suppose !  In  a  few 
days,  Mrs.  Delany  got  a  bad  fever,  and  the  bird  died ; 
but  for  some  hours  she  was  too  ill  even  to  recollect 
her  bird.  The  Queen  had  one  of  the  same  sort  which 
she  valued  extremely  (a  weaver  bird) ;  she  took  it 
with  her  own  hands,  and  while  Mrs.  Delany  slept  she 
had  the  cage  brought,  and  put  her  own  bird  into  it, 
charging  every  one  not  to  let  it  go  so  near  Mrs. 


16  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Delany,  that  she  could  perceive  the  change,  till  she  was 
enough  recovered,  better  to  bear  the  loss  of  her  first 
favourite." 

When  Mrs.  Delany  was  about  to  move  to  Windsor, 
the  Queen  sent  to  desire  that  her  "dearest  Mrs.  Delany  " 
would  bring  herself  and  her  niece,  clothes  and  attend- 
ants, but  stores  of  every  kind  would  be  laid  in  for  her 
and  on  reaching  her  new  home  she  was  received  and 
welcomed  by  the  King  himself. 

The  garden  of  Mrs.  Delany's  house  joined  that  of  the 
Queen's  Lodge.  On  the  morning  after  her  arrival  Her 
Majesty  sent  one  of  her  ladies  to  know  "how  she  had 
rested,"  and  "  whether  her  coming  would  not  be  trou- 
blesome." Writing  to  Mrs.  Hamilton  afterwards,  Mrs. 
Delany  says,  "  Her  Majesty  came  up-stairs.  Our  meet- 
ing  was  mutually  affecting.  She  repeated  in  the 
strongest  terms  her  wish,  and  the  King's,  that  I  should 
be  as  easy  and  as  happy  as  they  could  possibly  make  me ; 
that  they  waived  all  ceremony,  and  desired  to  come  to 
me  like  friends  /  "  Henceforward  Mrs.  Delany  usually 
spent  two  or  three  evenings  at  the  Queen's  Lodge, 
visits  which  were  frequently  returned  without  any 
ceremony  by  the  royal  family.  The  King  would  lead 
her  about  leaning  on  his  arm :  the  Queen  would  come, 
unannounced,  to  dine  with  her  "  on  veal  cutlets  and 
orange  pudding : "  she  was  permitted  to  have  a  share  in 
all  their  sorrows  and  anxieties,  and  of  their  domestio 
happiness  her  journals  and  letters  give  the  most 
delightful  pictures. 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES.  17 

"November  9,  1785. — I  have  been  several  evenings  at 
the  Queen's  Lodge,  with  no  other  company  but  their  own 
most  lovely  family.  They  sit  round  a  large  table,  on  which 
are  books,  work,  pencils,  and  paper.  The  Queen  has  the 
goodness  to  make  me  sit  down  next  to  her ;  and  delights 
me  with  her  conversation,  whilst  the  younger  part  of  the 
family  are  drawing  and  working,  the  beautiful  babe,  Prin- 
cess Amelia,  bearing  her  part  in  the  entertainment,  some- 
times in  one  of  her  sister's  laps,  sometimes  playing  with 
the  Xing  on  the  carpet ;  which  altogether,  exhibits  such  a 
delightful  scene,  as  would  require  an  Addison's  pen,  or  a 
Vandyke's  pencil,  to  do  justice  to  it.  In  the  next  room  is 
the  band  of  music,  which  plays  from  eight  o'clock  till 
ten.  The  "King  directs  them  what  pieces  of  music  to 
play,  chiefly  Handel.  Here  I  must  stop  and  return  to  my 
own  house.  On  the  28th  their  Majesties,  the  five  prin- 
cesses, and  the  youngest  princes,  came  at  seven  o'clock  in 
the  evening  to  drink  tea  with  me.  All  the  princes  and 
princesses  had  a  commerce  table, — Miss  Emily  Clayton, 
daughter  to  Lady  Louisa  Clayton,  and  Miss  Port,  did  the 
'honours  of  it." 

"August  11,  1787. — At  this  time  of  year  the  evenings 
are  devoted  by  my  royal  friends  to  the  terrace  till  eight 
o'clock,  when  they  return  to  the  Lodge  to  their  tea  and 
concert  of  music,  and  happy  are  those  that  are  admitted 
to  that  circle !  The  Queen  has  had  the  goodness  to  com- 
mand me  to  come  whenever  it  is  quite  easy  for  me  to  do  it, 
without  sending  particularly  for  me,  lest  it  should  embar- 
rass me  to  refuse ;  so  that  most  evenings  at  half  an  hour 
past  seven  I  go  to  Miss  Burney's  apartment,  and  when 
the  royal  family  return  from  the  terrace,  the  King,  or  one 

VOL.   I.  C 


18  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

of  the  princesses  (generally  the  youngest,  Princess  Amelia, 
just  four  years  old),  come  into  the  room,  take  me  by  the 
hand,  and  lead  me  into  the  drawing-room,  where  there  is  a 
chair  ready  for  me  by  the  Queen's  left  hand.  The  three 
eldest  princesses  sit  round  the  table,  and  the  ladies  in 
waiting,  Lady  Charlotte  Finch  and  Lady  Elizabeth  "Walde- 
grave.  A  vacant  chair  is  left  for  the  King,  whenever  he 
pleases  to  sit  down  in  it.  Everyone  is  employed  with  their 
pencil,  needle,  or  knotting.  Between  the  pieces  of  music 
the  conversation  is  easy  and  pleasant;  and,  for  an  hour 
before  the  conclusion  of  the  whole,  the  King  plays  at  back- 
gammon with  one  of  his  equerries." 

These  were  happy  days  for  the  little  "  Portia,"  who 
was  frequently  allowed  the  companionship  of  the 
younger  princesses,  Mary  and  Sophia,  while  with  Miss 
Emilia  Clayton*  she  made  an  intimate  friendship, 
which  was  broken  by  her  first  great  sorrow,  in  the 
death  of  that  young  lady  of  a  rapid  decline  in  1787, 
Queen  Charlotte  took  a  personal  interest  in  the  writing 
lessons  of  Mrs.  Delany's  niece,  and  taught  her  to  imitate 
her  own  beautiful  handwriting,  which  is  known  to  have 
been  singularly  perfect.  The  Queen  also  desired  that 
Miss  Port  should  have  drawing  lessons  from  the  same 
master  as  the  Princesses,  lessons  always  given  between 
the  hours  of  divine  service  on  a  Sunday,  which  was 
considered  a  proper  day  for  a  quiet  and  interesting 
occupation  which  was  neither  labour  nor  dissipation. 

•  Daughter  of  Lady  Louisa  Clayton,  Lady  of  the  Bedchamber  to 
Princess  Amelia,  second  daughter  of  George  II. 


PAMLLY   I3TFLITENXE8.  19 

An  amusing  adventure  is  narrated  in  a  letter  of 
1787,*  of  which  Miss  Port  was  the  heroine.  The  royal 
family  were  absent  at  Kew,  and  as  they  did  not  like  to 
live  a  day  without  seeing  Mrs.  Delany,  they  took  her 
with  them.  On  one  of  the  days  of  their  absence,  the 
King  went  over  to  Windsor,  and  while  he  was  walking 
on  the  terrace,  thought  he  would  go  into  Mrs.  Delany's, 
and  knocked  at  a  room  door.  A  young  lady  was  sitting 
in  the  room,  and  said,  "Who  is  there?"  A  voice 
replied  "It  is  me"  then  said  she  "Me  may  stay 
where  he  is."  Again  there  was  a  knock,  and  she  again 
said,  "Who  is  there P"  The  voice  answered  " It  is 
me"  then  said  she  " Me  is  impertinent,  and  may  go 
about  his  business."  Upon  the  knocking  being  repeated 
a  third  time,  some  person  who  was  with  her  advised 
her  to  open  the  door,  and  see  who  it  could  be ;  when,  to 
her  great  astonishment,  who  should  it  be  but  the  King 
himself  !  All  she  could  utter  was,  "  What  shall  I  say  ?  " 
"  Nothing  at  all,"  said  his  Majesty,  "  you  were  very 
right  to  be  cautious  who  you  admitted." 

Surrounded  to  the  last  by  an  atmosphere  of  affec- 
tionate reverence,  Mrs.  Delany  died  in  her  house  in 
St.  James's  Place  on  the  15th  April,  1788,  aged  eighty- 
eight.  Miss  Port  was  then  only  seventeen,  and  the 
blow  was  almost  overwhelming  to  her.  Not  only  did 
she  lose  her  second  mother,  the  wise  and  loving  com- 
panion of  her  life,  but  her  life  itself,  in  all  its  surround- 
ings and  associations,  was  necessarily  changed  hence- 

•  Mrs.  Meo  to  Mrs.  Anno  Viney. 


20  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS  1!UNSEN. 

forward.*  In  her  passionate  devotion  to  her  aunt,  she 
had  imbibed  her  tastes,  and  was  capable  of  drawing 
just  comparisons,  and  of  measuring  others  by  the  stan- 
dard of  her  who  had  trained  her  mind  from  infancy. 
She  had  lived  in  an  atmosphere  of  extreme  refinement, 
as  well  as  of  virtue,  and  although  not  old  enough  to 
be  formally  presented  at  Court,  she  was  known  to  all 
who  belonged  to  it,  and  was  in  the  habit  of  daily  inter- 
course with  the  different  members  of  the  Royal  Family. 
The  days  she  looked  back  upon  had  been"  passed  in  the 
most  perfect  happiness.  With  the  comfort  and  security 
of  home,  she  had  enjoyed  the  society  of  all  the  great  and 
good  who  met  in  Mrs.  Delany's  house,  and  though  she 
had  never  entered  the  dissipation  of  the  world,  she  had 
lived  in  the  constant  enjoyment  of  all  the  best  things 
the  world  had  to  bestow. 

In  looking  forward  to  the  desolate  future  of  her 
niece,  and  in  entrusting  her  to  the  guardianship  of  Mr. 
Court  D'Ewes,  of  Wellesbourne,  the  eldest  son  of  her 
beloved  sister  Anne,  Mrs.  Delany  had  entirely  miscal- 
culated his  future  conduct.  As  is  too  often  the  case, 
she  fancied  that  because  to  her  he  was  all  respect  and 
attention,  he  must  feel  exactly  as  she  did  towards  his 
niece.  It  never  seems  to  have  entered  into  her  contem- 
plation that  he  would  not  carry  out  all  her  desires  and 
wishes,  whether  expressed  or  not.     In  fact  she  thought 

*  For  almost  all  the  particulars  given  here  of  Mrs.  Delany,  the 
editor  is  indebted  to  Lady  Llano  vers  "  Life  and  Correspondence  of 
Mra.  Delany." 


FAMILY    INFLUENCES.  21 

that  there  was  but  one  mind  between  them,  and  that,  for 
his  own  sake,  he  would  be,  not  only  the  guardian,  but 
the  father,  and  the  sympathising  counsellor  and  pro- 
tector of  her  adopted  child,  whose  dazzling  beauty  and 
remarkable  intellectual  qualities,  Mrs.  Delany  believed 
that  she  placed  in  the  tenderest  as  well  as  the  safest  hands, 
when  she  entrusted  her  to  her  uncle,  and  left  every- 
thing of  importance  to  his  decision.  But  events  were 
very  different  to  her  anticipations.  Mr.  D'Ewes  had 
naturally  a  cold  and  ungenial  nature,  and,  from  the 
moment  of  Mrs.  Delany's  death,  her  cherished  child  had 
not  only  reason  to  feel  that  she  was  neither  loved  or 
understood,  but  was  treated  by  her  uncle  with  positive 
coldness  and  harshness,  as  well  as  with  neglect  of  her 
worldly  interests. 

It  does  not  appear  that  Mrs.  Delany  was  ever  as 
partial  to  her  nephew  Granville  of  Calwich,  or  as  inti- 
mate with  him,  as  she  was  with  his  brother  of  Welles- 
bourne,  an  estrangement  which  might  naturally  arise 
from  her  having  been  herself  once  looked  upon  as  the 
heiress  of  her  brother  Granville;  and  having  been 
disinherited  in  favour  of  this  nephew,  probably  in 
consequence  of  her  brother's  annoyance  at  her  mar- 
riage with  Dr.  Delany,  who  was  not  her  equal  in 
birth.  Young  Granville  of  Calwich  was,  however, 
of  a  very  different  disposition  to  his  brother.  Full 
of  kindness  and  geniality,  he  vied  in  acts  of  liber- 
ality and  benevolence  with  his  wife  Harriet  Joan 
De  la  Berc,  who  was  peculiarly  dignified  and  high-bred, 


\ 


22  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BVNSEN 

though  her  reserve  generally  caused  young  persons  to 
stand  in  awe  of  her.  Thus,  in  her  deep  sorrow,  Miss 
Port  was  thankful  when  she  was  allowed  to  leave  Welles- 
bourne  and  take  refuge  with  her  younger  uncle  and 
aunt,  and  Mrs.  Granville,  usually  so  undemonstrative, 
was  soon  won  by  her  rare  qualities,  to  regard  her  with 
warm  affection.  She  took  her  to  Bath,  where,  as  was 
then  the  fashion,  it  was  considered  necessary  for  health 
to  spend  some  weeks  or  months  every  year,  and  where 
Mr.  Granville  had  a  house  of  his  own  :  and  here,  though 
Miss  Port  had  never  been  "  out "  in  the  common  accep- 
tation of  the  term,  she  could  not  accompany  her  uncle 
and  aunt  in  their  walks  and  drives,  without  seeing  and 
being  seen, 

It  is  not  known  that  Miss  Port  ever  spoke  to  the 
gentleman  she  afterwards  married,  before  he  proposed 
for  her  to  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Granville,  according  to  the 
practice  then  in  vogue.  There  could  not  have  been  the 
slightest  intimacy  (if  any  acquaintance)  between  Mr. 
Waddington  and  herself,  and  the  first  idea  she  had  of 
a  proposal  from  him  was  through  some  words  acci- 
dentally dropped  by  her  uncle  and  aunt  to  each  other, 
when  they  were  unconscious  or  unobservant  that  she 
was  in  the  room.  The  effect  upon  her  was  electrical. 
Sensitive  and  impulsive  by  nature  to  the  highest 
degree,  the  impression  made  was  that  her  relations 
could  not  have  her  real  interests  at  heart  if  for  a 
moment  they  could  even  recognise  the  possibility  of 
such   a  marriage,    while   the  consciousness    that  the 


FAMILY   INFLUE*XKS.  23 

gentleman  in  question  must  disinterestedly  care  for  her 
to  think  of  it,  suddenly  determined  her  to  accept  his 
proposal  if  it  was  made.  Thus,  when  her  uncle  con- 
sidered it  his  duty  to  make  a  formal  announcement  of 
the  offer  she  had  received,  and  to  request  her  decision, 
he  was  astonished  by  her  immediate  acceptance  of  it. 
She  was  entirely  engrossed  by  the  torturing  idea  that 
those  she  was  beginning  to  love  did  not  love  her.  She 
thought  nothing  of  a  disparity  of  age  of  between  twenty 
and  thirty  years — nothing  of  anything*  but  that  an 
individual,  said  to  be  unexceptionable  in  character, 
valued  her,  she  knew  not  why.  Since  the  death  of 
Mrs.  Delany,  the  world  had  been  a  blank  to  her.  She 
believed  it  would  always  remain  so,  and  meantime  she 
would  endeavour  to  make  one  person  happy,  though 
she  never  expected  to  be  so  herself.  She  married  at 
eighteen  in  the  same  state  of  mind  in  which  a  nun 
takes  the  black  veil,  except  that  there  are  few  nuns 
who  believe  none  are  left  to  care  for  them  outside  the 
walls  of  their  prison. 

Mr.  Waddington  had  a  good  fortune,  and  his  family 
was  of  very  ancient  origin,  though  at  that  time  it 
had  fallen  into  insignificance.  Walter  de  Wadding- 
ton was  lord  of  Waddington  in  Lincolnshire,  and 
had  a  daughter,  who  in  the  thirteenth  century  mar- 
ried Sir  Roger  Tempest,  Knt.,  of  Bracewell.  In  the 
eighteenth  century  there  are  records  of  inter-marriages 
with  the  families  of  Beckwith  of  Aldborough,  Tyrwhitt 
of  Stamfield,  and  Cradock  of  Hartforth  in  Yorkshhe. 


24  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

In  1740,  the  Rev.  Joshua  Waddington,  Vicar  of 
Harworth  and  Walkeringham  in  Nottinghamshire, 
married  Ann,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Ferrand, 
Vicar  of  Bingley.  Ann  Ferrand  was  ultimately  the 
heiress  of  Towes  in  Lincolnshire,  which  devolved 
through  her  to  her  son  Thomas.  Her  son  Benjamin 
Waddington  married  Miss  Port. 

Upon  his  marriage,  Mr.  Waddington  rented  Dun- 
ston  Park  in  Berkshire,  but  merely  as  a  temporary  re- 
sidence. There,  his  eldest  daughter  Harriet  was  born 
(1790),  who  survived  only  a  few  months.  Her  birth 
was  followed,  on  the  4th  of  March,  1791,  by  that 
of  Frances,  afterwards  Baroness  Bunsen.  Soon  after 
this  Mr.  Waddington  removed  to  Llanover,  an  estate 
he  had  purchased  in  South  "Wales,  where  his  beautiful 
wife  consented  to  reside  for  the  next  eleven  years  in 
perfect  seclusion,  without  even  visiting  London ;  where 
she  not  only  educated  her  daughter  but  herself,  while 
accommodating  herself  to  the  life  which  she  felt  it  her 
duty  not  only  to  endure  but  to  learn  to  enjoy.  Her 
delight  in  Nature  was  her  greatest  consolation  in  this 
total  isolation  from  all  the  friends,  associates,  and  com- 
panions of  her  former  existence,  and  she  cultivated  this 
taste  to  the  uttermost,  and  imparted  it  to  her  children. 

There  were  perhaps  only  two  points  of  resemblance 
in  the  disposition  of  the  father  and  mother  of  the 
Baroness  Bunsen,  and  these  were  generosity  in  their 
actions  and  a  scrupulous  regard  to  truth.  Being  ex- 
ceedingly phlegmatic,  Mr.  Waddington   was  without 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES.  25 

the  slightest  particle  of  imagination.  He  was  a  re- 
markable instance  of  a  great  reader,  who  had  no 
preference  with  regard  to  subject  and  who  kept  no 
particular  object  in  view.  He  would  steadily  read 
for  hours  with  the  most  perfect  satisfaction,  and  never 
appeared  to  skip  a  single  page.  Whatever  work  he 
began  he  regularly  finished,  and  he  seldom  made 
the  slightest  comment  upon  it.  Travels,  biographies, 
and  also  works  of  fiction,  were  perused  with  the  same 
patient  attention.  If  the  weather  was  fine  and  he 
could  take  his  accustomed  long  walks  and  rides,  he 
was  much  out  of  doors,  but  if  the  weather  prevented 
this,  he  would  seat  himself  in  his  great  chair  in 
his  own  room  and  read  from  breakfast- time — 8  or 
8.30  till  1  o'clock,  and  again  from  2  or  3  till  5 
o'clock,  which  was  his  regular  dinner-hour.  He  never 
seemed  to  know  the  meaning  of  the  word  ennui: 
punctual  as  a  machine  in  all  his  habits,  he  pursued 
his  various  occupations  like  clock-work,  and  their 
monotony  never  seemed  to  weary  him.  A  good  deal 
of  his  time  was  taken  up  by  the  business  of  a  magis- 
trate, which  was  then  transacted  by  each  country 
gentleman  in  his  own  room.  It  has  been  said  that 
many  of  them  had  butlers  who  were  expected  to  read 
up  the  law  and  answer  to  certain  points  when  referred 
to,  but  it  is  not  believed  that  Mr.  Waddington's  well- 
known  butler  "  Abraham  "  ever  did  more  than  acquaint 
himself  with  the  persons  and  circumstances  of  those 
who  came  to  seek  justice  from  his  master. 


26  LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF    BARONESS    BUSSES-. 

Mr.  Waddington's  time  for  conversation  was  after 
his  dinner,  when  his  wife  would  keep  him  company, 
and  hear  anything  that  had  occurred  during  the  day 
either  to  interest  or  annoy  him.  If  any  unforeseen 
event  in  or  out  of  the  establishment  happened  to  disturb 
him,  he  instantly  went  to  her,  and  she  possessed  great 
influence  over  him,  though  his  routine  of  life  was  not 
in  the  slightest  degree  altered  by  her  society.  For 
some  time  he  troubled  and  worried  himself  with  farm- 
ing, but  finding  that  it  did  not  increase  his  happiness 
and  very  much  interfered  with  his  comfort  to  see  every- 
thing going  wrong,  he  gradually  put  his  agricultural 
affairs  into  the  hands  of  his  wife,  who  amongst  other 
useful  arts  had  acquired  a  practical  knowledge  of  the 
subject,  and  soon  succeeded  in  establishing  order  and 
neatness  in  the  farming  department. 

Mrs.  Waddington  was  an  excellent  judge  of  horses, 
seeming  to  inherit  the  gift  of  her  family  in  her  judg- 
ment of  those  animals,  and  without  ever  having  been  a 
hard  rider  or  being  accustomed  to  follow  the  hounds,  she 
was  always  perfectly  at  home  on  horseback — an  accom- 
plishment she  had  been  taught  by  her  father  at  a  very 
early  age.  As  long  as  her  health  permitted,  one  of  her 
greatest  pleasures  was  taking  rides  in  the  beautiful 
country  by  which  she  was  surrounded.  One  of  her 
favourite  expeditions  was  to  the  residence  of  her  old 
friend  and  neighbour  Admiral  GelL  near  Crickhowel, 
whither  her  little  daughter  Frances  accompanied  her 
when  old  enough — and  often  afterwards  recurred  with 


_ 


FAMILY   INFLUENCES.  27 

delight  to  those  summer  evening  rides  amid  the  singing 
of  nightingales. 

There  was  no  country  paper  of  any  kind  published 
within  forty  miles  of  Llanover,  and  the  chief  depen- 
dence for  news  was  upon  the  arrival  from  London 
of  the  Morning  Chronicle,  which  came  in  the  evening. 
But,  as  there  was  no  post-delivery,  Mr.  Waddington 
would  never  accustom  himself  to  look  f orward  to  the 
arrival  of  letters  or  newspapers,  and  unless  there  was 
any  reason  to  expect  letters,  the  newspapers  were  never 
considered  of  sufficient  importance  for  any  one  to  be 
sent  four  miles  on  purpose  to  fetch  them.  Although 
few  men  have  been  more  truly,  though  secretly,  a 
father  of  the  fatherless,  or  have  lent  large  sums  with 
greater  generosity  to  assist  friends  in  distress,  yet  he 
had  a  peculiar  aversion  to  the  expenditure  of  any 
avoidable  small  sum,  and  he  did  not  conceal  that  the 
payment  of  turnpikes  was  an  object  of  consideration 
which  often  turned  the  balance  against  sending  to  the 
post  office.*  His  old  servants  and  workmen  were,  how- 
ever, much  attached  to  him,  and  although  his  temper 
was  very  choleric  when  provoked,  he  was  substantially 
so  benevolent  and  just  a  master  that  this  warmth  of 
temper,  which  was  quickly  over,  was  regarded  by  them 
more  as  a  peculiarity  than  a  fault. 

•  On  one  occasion  he  lost  several  thousand  pounds  which  he  had 
lent  to  a  friend,  from  his  determination  to  save  the  postage  of  a  letter 
of  inquiry  as  to  the  payment  of  the  policy  of  insurance.  The  friend 
died  suddenly,  the  policy  was  not  paid,  and  the  whole  sum  was 
forfeited. 


28  LIFE   AND    LETTERS  OP  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

The  susceptibility  of  Mr.  Waddington  to  small  things 
in  money  matters  was  by  no  means  shared  by  his  wife, 
who  combined  equal  generosity  with  liberality  on  all 
subjects.  To  her  servants  she  was  a  friend  as  well  as  a 
mistress,  and  she  took  a  personal  interest  in  the  welfare 
of  each  and  all  of  her  poorer  neighbours.  During  the 
period  of  her  quiet  life  at  Llanover  she  suffered  great 
affliction  in  the  death  of  two  infant  daughters— Matilda 
and  Mary  Ann.  The  latter  died  of  small-pox  (1792), 
at  the  age  of  one  year  and  seven  months,  and  her 
mothei  could  never  allude  to  her  death  without  anguish. 
The  child  had  been  innoculated  for  the  small-pox  (vac- 
cination being  then  unknown),  and  she  was  attended 
night  and  day  by  her  mother,  upon  whom  the  effect 
lasted  for  life  of  seeing  her  expire  under  that  grievous 
disease  (which  had  been  produced  artificially)  upon  a 
being  previously  in  perfect  health.  It  is  probable  that 
the  deaths  of  these  infants  and  the  loss  of  her  eldest 
child,  which  she  attributed  to  the  ignorance  of  a  pro- 
fessed nurse  when  she  herself  was  utterly  inexperi- 
enced, was  the  direct  cause  of  the  extraordinary  care 
as  well  as  knowledge  for  which  she  was  eminently 
distinguished  in  later  life  as  regarded  the  treatment 
of  children  and  invalids.  She  applied  her  powerful 
intelkct  to  the  subject;  and  although  she  neither 
wrote  books  nor  tormented  others  with  advice,  she 
taught  herself  by  observation  to  discriminate  between 
good  and  evil,  and  became  the  instructress  as  well  as 
the  mistress  of  her  nurses. 


CHAPTER  H. 

RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD. 

"Think  nought  a  trifle,  though  it  small  appear, 

Small  sands  the  mountain,  momenta  make  the  year, 

And  trifles  life." 

Young. 

"H  n'y  a  pas  de  petites  choses  dans  ce  monde,  attendu 
que  Dieu  se  mele  de  toutes." — Madams  Swetchine. 

A  BOUT  four  miles  from  Abergavenny,  where  the 
-^*-  green  meadows  are  divided  by  the  river  Usk,  nine 
crystal  springs  bursting  side  by  side  from  a  rock,  be- 
neath  a  wooded  hill,  form  the  holy  fountain  of  Gofer, 
the  hermit  whose  memory  gives  a  name  to  Llanover, 
or  the  Church  of  Gofer.*  On  the  left,  the  thickly 
wooded  valley  is  girt  by  the  Blawreng,  or  the  "  grey 
ridge : "  on  the  right,  above  the  nearer  hills,  rises  the 
quaint  form  of  Pen-y-val,  or  the  Sugar-loaf:  while, 
behind  Abergavenny,  is  Scyrryd  Vawr,  or  "the  Holy 
Mountain/1  which,  like  Monserrat  in  Spain  and  La 
Yernia  in  Italy,  is  supposed  to  have  been  rent  asunder 

*  Gofer  is  one  of  the  three  nncanonized  saints  of  Gwent,  Honwg 
and  Gwareg  being  the  two  others. 


30  LIFE  AND  LETTERS   OF   BAKONESS   BXTXSEN. 

at  the  Crucifixion,  and  which,  still  bears  on  its  summit 
the  ruins  of  a  chapel  of  St.  Michael,  whither  Roman 
Catholic  peasants  ascend  on  Michelmas  Eve,  and  bring 
away  its  sacred  earth  to  place  in  the  coffins  of  their 
dead,  or  to  throw  into  graves  to  keep  evil  spirits  at  a 
distance. 

In  the  midst  of  the  valley,  embosomed  in  trees, 
stands  the  White  House  of  Llanover,  roomy,  simple, 
and  old-fashioned,  and  surrounded  by  large  shrubberies. 
A  brook  rushes  rapidly  through  the  garden,  forming 
pools,  cascades,  and  islets  charming  to  children,  and 
imparting  a  constant  freshness  to  the  green  depths 
around.  The  planting  of  larches  (then  a  new  tree) 
around  Llanover  was  one  of  the  favourite  occupations 
of  Mr.  Waddington's  life :  in  1799  no  less  than  120,000 
larch-trees  were  brought  from  Glasgow  for  this  pur- 
pose. 

At  Llanover,  four  daughters  were  born  to  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Waddington,  of  whom  only  two — Emilia,  born 
February  3rd,  1794,  and  Augusta,  born  March  21st, 
1802 — lived  to  grow  up. 

In  her  eighty-third  year,  the  Baroness  Bunsen,  at  the 
solicitation  of  her  daughters  and  grand-daughters,  com- 
mitted to  writing  some  ricordi  of  her  childhood,  from 
which  the  following  notes  are  extracted. 

"  The  first  event  in  my  life  of  which  I  have  a  distinct 
recollection  was  sitting  for  the  portrait  painted  of  me, 
with  my  sister  Emilia,  by  Mr.  Roche,  a  deaf  and  dumb 
miniature-painter  at  Bath,  where  my  parents  staid  for 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  31 

a  short  time  in  1796.  My  beautiful  aunt,  Louisa  Fort 
was  then  with  us,  the  charming  and  lively  companion  of 
my  mother,  of  whose  presence  I  was  always  glad.  I 
remember  many  walks  at  Bath  with  my  mother  and  her 
sister  Louisa,  and  have  indistinct  visions  of  their  dress — 
especially  of  a  purple  silk  which  my  aunt  called  her  '  dig- 
nified dress/  and  which  was  made  in  the  then-beginning 
fashion  of  'a  round  gown,'  that  is,  an  entire  skirt,  not 
open  in  front  and  parting  to  show  the  under-petticoat. 
Short  sleeves,  morning  as  well  as  evening,  were  then 
universal,  and  my  mother  had  long  gloves  of  York  tan  (as 
they  were  called),  yellow,  and  reaching  to  the  elbow, 
sewed  into  a  cuff  of  green  satin  which  was  pinned  on  the 
sleeve :  her  cloak  was  of  black  silk  trimmed  with  black 
lace,  very  narrow,  and  hanging  down  long  in  front.  I 
remember  a  bonnet  like  that  worn  by  the  peasants  of  the 
Canton  du  Valais,  black  satin  with  yellow  satin  bows  set 
all  round  the  rather  lengthy  crown. 

"  One  day  I  walked  with  my  mother  and  aunt  to  the 
Sydney  Gardens,  as  they  were  called.  In  one  part  were 
swings,  and  one  in  particular  called  a  Merlin  swing,  in 
which  the  swingers  sat  two  and  two,  opposite;  those 
at  the  corners  pulling  ropes  alternately  by  which  the 
swing  was  set  in  motion.  Two  gentlemen,  who  had  joined 
us  in  our  walk,  acceded  to  the  desire  of  the  ladies  in 
mounting  the  swing.  My  little  sister  and  I  remained  on 
the  gravel  walk  with  the  maid,  and  saw  one  of  these 
gentlemen  become  paler  and  paler,  till  he  almost  fainted, 
and  was  helped  out  of  the  swing  by  the  gardener.  This 
was  M.  La j  and  de  Cherval,  an  emigrant,  and  a  man  of 
brilliant  conversation,  who  had  been  in  the  intimacy  of 


82  LIFE  AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

Talleyrand  when  he  was  in  his  ecclesiastical  splendour.  I 
saw  him  once  many  years  later,  a  specimen  of  that  high- 
bred old  French  society  which  will  hardly  be  found  to 
survive  now.  I  observed  his  name  as  one  of  the  intimates 
of  Talleyrand  during  the  visit  of  Mr.  Pitt  on  that  early 
occasion  of  his  travelling  in  France  before  the  Revolution  ; 
and  as  having  asked  a  question  as  to  the  quarter  from 
whence  Mr.  Pitt  would  most  apprehend  alteration  and 
danger  to  the  English  constituted  authority  as  then  exist- 
ing ;  when  Mr.  Pitt  replied,  '  From  the  democratic  power, 
which  is  steadily  increasing.'  This  opinion,  contrasted 
with  the  Resolution  fresh  in  memory,  proposed  in  Parlia- 
ment by  Mr.  Fox,  that '  the  royal  authority  had  increased, 
was  increasing,  and  ought  to  be  diminished,'  will  hardly 
have  failed  to  impress  the  mind  of  the  highly-gifted  ques- 
tioner as  to  the  specific  gravity  of  the  young  man  before 
him,  who  as  yet  the  world  knew  not 

"The  birth  of  my  sister  Matilda  (23rd  September,  1797) 
is  the  first  event  of  which  I  have  a  clear  consciousness 
both  as  to  joy  and  sorrow :  to  see  the  baby  and  touch  it, 
caused  a  sensation  which  still  thrills  through  me ;  and  her 
death  (7th  October)  was  a  terrible  new  idea,  and  caused 
bitter  tears.  That  morning  my  father  entered  the  room 
in  tears,  and  when  I  begged  to  know  the  reason,  I  heard 
him  speak,  but  only  distinguished  the  words — 'Poor 
Matilda!'  which  I  supposed  meant  only  that  he  had 
found  her  ill,  for  I  knew  that  she  had  been  so  the  day 
before ;  and  it  was  not  till  I  had  come  with  my  little  sister 
Emily  to  breakfast  with  my  father,  that  I  understood  the 
awful  fact,  from  hearing  him  give  orders  to  Roper  the 
carpenter  for  the  coffin !    I  caught  directions  for  the  letters 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  33 

to  be  inscribed  upon  it,  which  caused  me  a  burst  of  crying 
hard  to  get  the  better  of — which  was  the  duty  of  the 
moment,  for  '  to  cry  is  naughty,'  in  nursery  law.  I  was 
pained  that  little  Emily  could  not  understand  what  was 
the  matter,  and  nowhere  did  I  meet  with  a  demonstration 
of  sympathy :  so  I  had  a  lesson,  often  repeated  in  my  early 
life,  that  sorrow  must  be  borne  alone.  My  mother  was  too 
ill  to  be  Tisited,  and  not  till  long  after  had  I  the  new  plea- 
sure of  seeing  her  up  and  dressed,  and  again  able  to  hear 
me  read  and  do  lessons.  I  can  see  her  now  in  mind,  as  I 
first  saw  her  again  then,  in  a  dress  of  printed  calico,  with 
tight  sleeves  reaching  to  the  elbow,  and  brown  leathern 
mittens. 

"A  great  event  in  my  early  life  was  a  journey  made  in 
1797  to  visit  a  number  of  relations.  Our  first  station  was 
Derby,  where  my  grandfather  Mr.  Port  had  a  house,  after 
he  was  obliged  to  leave  his  beautiful  residence  of  Ham, 
from  the  embarrassment  of  his  pecuniary  circumstances. 
My  grandfather  was  a  handsome  old  gentleman,  very  kind 
to  children.  His  daughter  Louisa  was  at  the  head  of  his 
household,  and  a  younger  daughter  Harriet  was  a  piece  of 
still  life  in  the  house,  overflowing  with  kindness  and 
devotedness  to  everybody ;  but,  as  the  only  plain  member 
of  the  family,  not  regarded  as  her  qualities  deserved.  My 
aunt  Harriet  is  the  person  in  my  life's  experience  to 
whom  I  have  felt  most  bound  to  bear  affection,  for  she 
deserved  it  of  me  by  her  unfailing  kindness.  My  youngest 
aunt,  Fanny  (afterwards  Mrs:  Bam)  lived  entirely  with 
her  parents  by  adoption,  my  great  uncle  and  aunt,  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Granville  of  Calwich. 

"  From  Derby  we  went  to  Tuxford  in  Nottinghamshire, 

vol.  I.  D 


34  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

the  dwelling  of  my  father's  brother  George— a  clergyman, 
who  had  been  tutor  to  Prince  William,  afterwards  Duke 
of  Clarence  and  subsequently  King — a  most  uncompro- 
mising Liberal,  not  to  say  Radical,  who  had  much  influ- 
ence over  the  opinions  of  his  relations.  At  York,  we  were 
received  at  the  Deanery  by  the  Dean  and  his  daughter, 
Miss  Fountayne.  The  Deanery  was  very  striking  to  me, 
in  its  antiquated  dignity  and  gloom.  The  Cathedral  is 
still  fresh  in  my  memory !  How  I  have  longed  to  see  it 
again,  but  that  has  never  happened ;  only  I  think  I  have 
renewed  the  very  early,  but  deep  and  sincere  tribute  of 
heart-beating  admiration  and  solemn  awe,  then  called 
forth,  every  time  that  I  have  seen  a  Gothic  cathedral  since. 
From  York  we  proceeded  to  Focklington,  where  Mr. 
Baskett,  the  husband  of  my  father's  youngest  sister,  was 
the  clergyman.  I  liked  the  time  spent  in  that  curious 
old  house  of  Pocklington,  and  remember  the  party  as*  very 
lively  and  sociable,  and  delighted  with  my  mother.  Here 
too  I  saw  old  Mrs.  Waddington,  my  father's  mother  (who 
died  at  the  age  of  93),  on  a  visit  to  her  daughter.  In  re- 
turning, my  parents  paused  for  a  few  hours  at  Ludlow  in 
Herefordshire,  and  I  first  remember  having  been  excited 
to  strong  emotion  by  scenery,  in  exploring  its  old  castle 
and  its  beautiful  river  and  bridge. 

"  In  the  following  year,  when  I  was  again  at  Bath  with 
my  parents  and  Aunt  Louisa,  one  of  the  events  was  a 
morning- visit  to  my  mother,  on  account  of  old  acquaint- 
ance from  her  Windsor-life  with  Mrs.  Delany,  from  the 
Prince  Ernest,  afterwards  Duke  of  Cumberland,  later  King 
of  Hanover.  I  was  placed  with  little  Emily,  to  stand  in  a 
corner  by  the  window,  and  ordered  to  look  out — but  rather 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  35 

* 

I  looked  the  other  way,  greatly  curious  as  to  what  a  Prince 
might  be  like,  and  I  believe  was  disappointed  to  see 
him  appear  much  like  the  gentlemen  that  accompanied 
him,  very  tall,  fair,  freckled,  and  flaxen-haired:  such  is 
my  impression.  Another  frequent  visitor  was  Tom  Sheri- 
dan, who  interested  me  far  more  than  the  Prince,  and  the 
image  of  his  fine  face  and  figure,  and  the  charm  of  his  ani- 
mated conversation,  remain  distinct  in  my  memory,  though 
I  probably  understood  very  little  of  the  subject  of  the  fun 
which  entertained  me :  only  I  know  that  he  teased  my  mother 
and  aunt  by  describing  how  they  had  tripped  over  the  miry 
streets  with  drapery  held  up,  and  that  he  imitated  the 
inevitable  hop,  skip,  and  jump  :  and  he  blamed  himself  for 
out-staying  the  hour  when  they  ought  to  have  been  at  dinner, 
assuring  them  that  the  mutton  would  be  over-roasted,  the 
potatoes  boiled  to  rags,  and  that  their  plates  would  scorch 
their  fingers — repeating  that  they  ought  to  turn  him  out  of 
the  house,  but  still  staying  on  and  making  them  laugh,  as 
I  did  in  a  corner.  This  was  the  father  of  the  three  beau- 
tiful ladies  whom  later  I  admired  in  London  and  gazed  at 
with  an  interest  independent  of  their  rare  perfections.* 
Later  than  the  date  of  this  vision,  so  bright  to  my  young 
eyes,  as  well  as  to  those  of  my  elders,  it  was  told  in  my 
hearing  that  Tom  Sheridan  had  married  a  Miss  Calendar : 
and  still  later  came  the  tidings  that  Tom  Sheridan,  in 
hopeless  consumption,  had  gone  to  try  the  effect  of  a 
milder  climate,  at  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope — where  the 
scene  soon  closed  in  death.    I  hope  and  believe  that  he 

•  The  Duchess  of  Somerset;  Lady  Dufferin,  afterwards  Lady 
Gifford;  and  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Norton,  afterwards  Lady  Stirling  Max- 
well. 


36  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

was  happy  in  the  love  of  his  wife,  and  thus  may  have 
known  something  of  the  best  that  life  can  afford.  Could 
I  but  remember  right,  the  lines  in  Crabbe's  Gipsy — 

M '  Though  abused  and  driven  astray 

Thou  hast  travelled  far  and  wandered  long; 
Thy  God  hath  seen  thee  all  the  way, 
And  every  turn  that  led  thee  wrong.' 

* 

"In  1799  my  father  became  Sheriff  for  the  county. 
There  was  a  general  invitation  of  neighbours  of  various 
classes  to  breakfast,  on  the  morning  when  he  was  to  drive 
with  four  horses  and  servants  in  new  liveries,  to  meet  and 
escort  the  Judges  coming  to  Monmouth.  I  well  remem- 
ber the  unusual  bustle,  the  tables  set  out,  and  the  farmers' 
wives  and  daughters  invited  in  and  seated  at  the  breakfast 
tables,  served  and  attended  to  by  my  mother  after  the 
cavalcade  had  departed.  The  hill-field  and  its  steep 
ascent  gave  opportunity  for  seeing  the  javelin-men,  con- 
sisting of  my  father's  servants,  labourers  and  other  neigh- 
bours, all  in  his  livery  and  on  horseback,  who  trotted  in 
the  best  order  they  could  manage,  preceding  the  carriage. 
My  father  had  picked  out  the  men  to  whom  the  handsome 
new  clothing  was  sure  to  be  the  most  desirable.  He  had 
said,  '  I  told  Neddy  the  blacksmith  that  he  should  be  one 
of  the  javelin-men,  if  he  would  but  wash  his  face ' — which 
rare  operation  was  accordingly  performed :  and  the  suit  of 
clothes  then  given  formed  Neddy's  regular  Sunday-attire, 
as  long  as  I  remember  him.  This  was  perhaps  the  first  occa- 
sion in  my  life  when  I  had  a  reason  to  observe  upon  my 
father.  I  had  taken  my  parents  entirely  as  a  matter  of  fact, 
and  compared  them  neither  with  existences  or  ideals.  I 
now  perceived  that  my  father  acted  characteristically  in  the 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  37 


case  of  selection  of  javelin-men,  on  a  high  motive  rather 
than  a  meaner  one ;  although  there  was  temptation  on  the 
score  of  appearance  and  personal  effect,  to  have  thought  it 
due  to  himself  to  make  a  first  public  appearance  with  a 
showy  troop  of  men  well-grown  and  matched. 

"This  year  of  my  father's  shrievalty  was  marked  by 
the  attempt  to  assassinate  the  King  (George  III.)  in  the 
Theatre,  and  the  strong  revulsion  of  feeling  produced  by 
the  King's  noble  and  manly  bearing,  standing  firm  without 
starting  or  withdrawing  at  the  report  of  the  pistol  which 
failed  to  strike  him,  and  bowing  graciously  to  the  audience, 
as  though  considering  (and  justly)  the  act  as  single,  and 
not  the  result  of  conspiracy.  The  moment  was  favourable 
to  Boyalty,  for  a  burst  of  rejoicing  and  congratulation 
followed,  and  my  father  was  called  upon  to  convey  a  loyal 
address  from  the  county  to  the  King.  His  journey  to 
London  caused  anxiety,  for  the  murder  of  a  Mr.  Mellish  by 
foot-pads  on  Hounslow  Heath  was  a  recent  event,  and  the 
roads  about  London  were  considered  very  unsafe :  but  the 
mail-coach,  where  there  was  a  guard  in  a  red  uniform 
with  a  blunderbuss,  was  thought  less  liable  to  attack  than 
a  simple  carriage,  as  in  the  case  of  Mr.  Mellish. 

"During  the  (very  unusual)  absence  of  my  father,  it 
was  settled  that  my  mother  should  go  to  her  father 
at  Derby.  Much  did  I  like  that  visit.  I  slept  in  my 
Aunt  Louisa's  room,  and  of  the  pretty  things  in  it,  she 
had  many  stories  to  tell  me,  for  they  came  from  her  dear 
old  home  at  Ham.  Her  father's  embarrassments  had 
obliged  him  to  let  his  beautiful  inheritance  to  the  Bateman 
family.  I  was  taken  to  see  it  while  they  lived  there,  in 
the  picturesque  old  family  house  of  the  Ports,  so  much 


fc, 


38  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

more  suited  to  the  scenery  than  the  overgrown  castel- 
lated building,  constructed  by  Mr.  Watts  Eussell,  who 
became  the  purchaser,  when  my  uncle  John  Fort  suc- 
ceeded to  the  entailed  property  in  1807. 

"  Many  circumstances  marked  the  bright  time  spent  at 
Derby.  First  there  was  the  Battle  of  the  Nile,  and  the 
great  popular  delight,  and  general  illumination,  every 
female  of  all  ranks  wearing  a  bow  or  cockade  of  sky-blue 
ribbon,  considered  the  loyal,  ministerial  colour.  Mrs. 
Feilding  happened  to  be  at  Derby,  consulting  Dr.  Darwin 
for  her  daughter,  and  she  dined  that  day  at  my  grand- 
father's, and  was  rallied  on  having  forgotten  to  put  on  a 
cockade,  which  was  zealously  provided  for  her.  My  mother 
called  upon  Mrs.  Darwin,  and  thus  I  saw  the  three  beau- 
tiful daughters,  whose  appearance  is  still  distinct  in  my 
recollection.  I  always  delighted  to  look  upon  beauty,  but 
took  care  not  to  explain  why  I  stared  at  the  objects  of  my 
admiration,  because  I  was  always  reminded  of  the  solemn 
truth  that '  beauty  is  of  no  value.'  The  daughters  of  Dr. 
Darwin  had  a  right  to  the  inheritance  of  beauty  from  their 
mother,  formerly  Mrs.  Fole  of  Bedburn.  In  the  long  course 
of  subsequent  years,  I  have  heard  with  cordial  interest  that 
the  three  lovely  girls  adorned  in  life  the  families  into  which 
they  married,  by  merit  equal  to  their  beauty. 

"At  Derby  I  saw  two  persons  who  fixed  themselves  in 
my  memory  as  the  first  French  emigrants  I  had  seen.  My 
Aunt  Louisa  one  rainy  day  looking  out  of  the  window 
exclaimed, '  There  they  are,  under  their  umbrella,  perhaps 
they  would  come  in  and  drink  tea  with  us.'  My  Uncle 
Bernard  accordingly  went  out,  and  respectfully  made  the 
invitation,  and  re-entered  with  an  oldish  gentleman  and  a 


h- 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  99 

reiy  young  lady,  pretty,  graceful,  and  of  most  refined 
appearance  and  manners,  whose  slightly  foreign  accent 
seemed  to  me  a  decoration.  I  heard  my  Aunt  Louisa's 
account  another  time  of  the  neatness  of  the  small  dwelling 
in  which  she  had  visited  this  lady,  finding  her  in  the 
whitest  cornette  tied  under  the  chin,  and  a  white  jacket 
oyer  her  dark  petticoat,  busied  in  sweeping  the  house,  as 
(she  observed)  she  'kept  no  maid,'  and  to  my  aunt's 
knowledge,  performed  every  kind  of  household  work  with 
delicate  hands  not  used  to  such  labour.  My  mother  met 
her  cordially,  and  had  some  further  communication  with 
her,  and  a  letter  in  consequence,  with  the  signature 
'Fraslin  du  Font.'  The  sight  and  consciousness  of  this 
lady,  laid  an  early  foundation  for  the  impression  I  have 
retained  through  life  of  the  merit  and  charm  of  the  ideal 
of  French  womanhood. 

"  Soon  after  our  return  home,  we  received  intelligence  of 
the  birth  of  a  second  son  to  my  Uncle  George,  at  Tuxf  ord, 
to  whom  the  name  of  Horatio*  was  given,  in  reference  to 
the  admired  hero  of  the  day— Horatio  Nelson.  The  close 
of  1799  was  marked  by  the  failure  of  harvest,  which 
brought  on  a  deplorable  scarcity,  for  the  relief  of  which 
my  father's  best  efforts  and  continual  exertions  were 
employed.  He  wrote  to  his  brother  Joshua  at  New  York, 
with  a  commission  to  send  him  a  quantity  of  wheat-flour, 
which  he  sold  in  small  quantities  at  cost  price  to  the  poor, 
establishing  himself  in  the  servants'  hall,  seeing  the 
applicants  individually,  and  taking  all  measures  to  prevent 
the  approach  of  such  as  wished  to  buy  cheap  in  order  to 

•  Horace  Waddington,  Permanent  Under-Secretary  to  the  Home 
Office. 


40  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

sell  dear.  My  father's  example  was  followed,  and  much 
more  American  flour  imported.  Well  do  I  remember  that 
everybody  was  exhorted  to  consume  as  little  bread  as 
possible  at  daily  meals,  bread  was  cut  in  pieces  for  each, 
member  of  the  dinner-party,  and  contrivances  were  tried 
to  make  the  flour  go  farther  by  adding  rice  or  boiled 
potatoes  in  making  bread,  which  was  not  found  to  answer, 
as  either  of  those  additions  had  the  effect  of  increasing 
appetite  and  consumption. 

"The  year  1799  closed  in  a  manner  very  distasteful  to 
me,  in  a  removal  very  late  in  the  season,  in  the  gloomiest 
of  weather,  to  Clifton  near  Bristol.  Here  my  mother  and 
my  sister  Emily  were  always  ill,  which  I  had  a  Arm  con- 
viction was  owing  to  the  daily  visits  of  Dr.  Beddoes,*  and 
the  prescriptions  he  sent.  At  this  time  John  and  William 
Lambton  were  staying  in  the  house  of  Dr.  Beddoes,  and 
had  lessons  in  French,  as  I  did,  from  M.  d'Estrade.  The 
elder  of  these  brothers  acquired  an  honoured  and  historical 
name  as  Lord  Durham,  the  younger  entered  the  Guards 
and  was  at  Borne  in  my  time  with  a  beautiful  young  wife. 
During  this  winter  also  a  young  genius  from  the  Land's 
End,  Humphrey  Davy,  since  so  celebrated,  arrived  in  Dr. 
Beddoes'  intimate  circle ;  and  as  stories  were  told  in  my 
hearing  of  his  companionship  with  Beddoes  in  scientific 
experiments,  I  fancied  his  small  person  (with  a  very  wide 
mouth)  with  King  the  surgeon,  as  catching  rats  with 
tongs,  and  subjecting  them  in  receivers  to  the  effects  of 
various  vapours,  while  Dr.  Beddoes  was  counting  seconds 

•  Dr.  Thomas  Beddoes,  1760 — 1808,  of  great  learning  and  linguistic 
attainments,  author  of  the  Hygeia,  and  founder  of  the  Pneumatic  In- 
stitution. 


RECOLLECTIONS   OF   CHILDHOOD.  41 

on  the  stop-watch,  which  I  had  seen  him  use  when  feeling 
pulses.  Much  were  the  various  gases  talked  of  in  my 
hearing,  and  many  persons  amused  themselves  with  beinjj 
subjected  to  '  laughing  gas/  of  which  I  have  heard  as  of 
an  old  acquaintance  after  the  lapse  of  seventy  years !  long 
after  the  death  of  Dr.  Beddoes,  who  had  hoped  much  in 
gases  as  a  means  of  medical  relief. 

"The  ' Anti-Jacobin,'  with  Canning's  wit,  was  a  great 
means  of  animation  in  the  house,  in  which  we  children 
took  a  full  share,  repeating  the  name  of  '  Matilda  Fot- 
tingen,'  and  the  'University  of  Gottingen,'  and  lines  from 
the  'Voyage  of  the  Learned  to  the  North  Pole.'  Once, 
and  once  only,  have  I  named  the  '  Anti- Jacobin '  since 
those  early  days !  for  it  would  have  been  an  unwelcome 
subject  among  Germans,  even  though  the  absurdities 
which  Canning  made  fun  of,  are  quite  as  odious  to  Germans 
as  to  any  other  nation. 

"A  matter  of  life-long  interest  during  this  stay  at 
Clifton,  was  my  being  allowed  to  see  the  inside  of  a 
theatre,  and  the  acting  of  Mrs.  Siddons.  I  then  felt  my 
way  into  the  strongest  current  of  sensation  independent  of 
reality,  which  life  has  ever  made  to  me.  I  know  of  no 
excitement  of  feeling  so  absorbing  as  that  produced  by  the 
combination  of  all  the  fine  arts,  which  brings  into  actual 
existence,  living  and  breathing  before  us,  the  varieties  of 
human  fate  and  feeling,  in  more  or  less  gracefulness  of 
form  and  grouping,  more  or  less  of  truth  and  melody  of 
voice  and  expression.  At  that  date  Mrs.  Siddons  fully 
preserved  her  symmetry  of  figure  and  perfection  of 
features,  her  brilliancy  of  eye  and  power  of  expression :  I 
did  not  see  her  again  till  many  years  later,  when  increase 


42  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


of  flesh  had  spoiled  the  general  effect,  though  the  talent 
remained  undiminished. 

"  It  was  in  the  June  of  this  year  that  the  startling  news 
one  day  arrived  of  the  sudden  death  of  John  Granville, 
the  only  child  of  the  Uncle  and  Aunt  Granville  who  fill  a 
great  place  in  my  early  recollections.  In  the  previous 
summer  he  had  spent  a  few  days  at  Hanover,  and  was  as 
engaging  to  us  children  as  to  all  older  members  of  society 
— beautiful  in  person,  intelligent  in  mind,  everywhere 
showered  upon  with  'golden  opinions,'  commended  at 
school,  adored  at  home,  having  just  entered  upon  his 
twenty-first  year,  so  that  the  whole  mass  of  our  relations 
were  full  of  the  anticipations  of  his  coming  of  age.  He 
had  gone  to  Clifton  with  a  cough  to  have  recourse  to  the 
two  nostrums  of  the  Hot-Wells  and  Dr.  Carrick.  His 
mother  was  watchful,  but  not  anxious ;  when  in  a  moment, 
before  her  eyes,  the  precious  life  was  closed  to  all  earthly 
consciousness.  Immediately  on  receiving  the  grievous 
news,  my  mother  went  to  Clifton,  and  brought  back  the 
bereaved  parents  to  Hanover.  I  remember  how  she  would 
walk  up  and  down  the  gravel  in  front  of  the  house  with 
her  uncle,  who  was  soothed  by  the  tones  of  her  voice,  and 
for  whom  she  always  seemed  to  find  conversation  by  the 
hour,  alternating  with  long  sittings  in  the  little  morning- 
room  with  Aunt  Granville,  whose  calm  and  patient  endur- 
ance of  her  lot  inspired  deeper  sympathy  than  the  more 
aggressive  grief  of  her  husband.  Before  the  fine  season 
ended,  the  family  of  my  mother's  Uncle  Dewes,  the  elder 
brother  of  Uncle  Granville,  also  came  on  a  visit.  The 
lady  was  a  seeond  wife,  Judith  Beresford  before  her 
marriage,  who  ruled  all  around  her  with  the  absolute 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  43 

power  usually  exercised  by  second  wives.  I  remember 
with,  great  pleasure  her  charming  singing,  and  her  duets 
with  her  l«nrely  step-daughter,  Anne  Dewes.*  This  cousin 
1  Nanny  Dewes '  was  most  atbmotive  in  my  eyes,  and  not 
in  mine  only,  for  she  was  the  admired  of  all  beholders, 
and  the  darling  of  her  elder  relations,  while  her  contem- 
poraries could  not  help  forgiving  the  homage  she  received, 
from  the  absence  of  all  pretension  on  her  part.  Her 
countenance  and  demeanour  were  the  effusion  of  the 
purest  and  most  perfect  feminine  modesty,  without  shy- 
ness: she  seemed  not  to  fear  or  mistrust  her  fellow- 
creatures,  any  more  than  to  presume  over  them.  Her 
voice,  in  speaking  as  in  singing,  seemed  to  pour  forth  the 
melody  of  the  whole  being,  and  each  syllable  dropped 
from  the  lips  and  the  pearls  within,  as  if  the  purpose  of 
speaking  was  to  show  their  perfection.  Her  look  seemed 
to  ask  everybody  to  be  kind  to  her,  without  making 
demands  as  of  a  right.  This  much-prized  daughter,  and 
her  brother,  Court  Dewes,  were  the  only  children  left  of 
the  admired  first  wife  of  my  Uncle  Dewes,  who  was  the 
sister  of  Aunt  Granville.  They  were  De  la  Beres,  of  an 
ancient  family,  whose  curious  old-fashioned  residence  near 
Cheltenham  was  purchased  by  Lord  Ellenborough,  after 
his  return  from  his  government  of  India.  The  first  Mrs. 
Dewes  was  very  beautiful,  in  a  higher  style  than  her 
sister  (although  dear  Aunt  Granville  continued  a  pretty 
woman  even  to  old  age),  yet  her  features  were  rather  to 

•  Anne,  only  daughter  of  Bernard  D'Ewes  and  his  first  wife  Anne 
de  la  Bere,  born,  1778,  married  G.  F.  Stratton,  Esq.,  of  Tew  Park, 
Oxfordshire,  and  died  Jan.  20, 1861,  having  to  the  last  fulfilled  the 
bright  promise  of  her  youth. 


44  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

be  traced  in  her  son  than  in  her  far  more  beautiful 
daughter.  By  the  death  of  John  Granville,  this  son, 
Court  Dewes,  became  the  heir  of  his  uncle's  property  of 
Calwich,  as  well  as  of  his  father's  estate  of  Wellesbourne 
in  Warwickshire. 

"The  year  1801  was  not  far  advanced  before  Clifton 
again  attracted  the  family  for  six  weeks.  Aunt  Louisa 
was  again  the  cherished  inmate,  with  whom  I  was  happy 
to  walk ;  yet  I  often  was  out  on  the  broad  sunny  pave- 
ment of  '  the  Mall '  alone  with  my  skipping-rope,  and 
looking  with  longing  eyes  upon  the  six  daughters  of  Lady 
Eleanor  Dundas>  who  lived  next  door,  and  also  came  out 
with  skipping-ropes,  and  with  whom  I  should  have  been 
glad  to  have  associated.  Two  or  three  seemed  older  than 
myself — those  who  in  after  years  were  Lady  Carmichael, 
Mrs.  Bruce,  and  Mrs.  Harford  Battersby*:  the  others 
were  younger.  I  remember  now  for  the  first  time  fre- 
quenting with  Aunt  Louisa  the  beautiful  path  along  the 
Avon,  under  the  rocks  and  woods,  which  at  every  subse- 
quent period  of  viewing  them,  my  expanding  faculties 
have  perceived  to  be  more  beautiful  than  before,  whereas 
I  fancy  in  fact  their  original  effect  must  have  been  the 
finest,  before  many  a  fine  tree  was  cut  away,  and  many  a 
mass  of  rock  blown  up  for  burning  into  lime,  or  other 
purposes  of  utility.  By-and-by  I  perceived  that  we  were 
often  joined  in  these  walks  by  one  of  Aunt  Louisa's 
partners  at  balls,  by  name  Brownlow  Yilliers .  Layard,  a 
son  of  the  Dean  of  Bristol,  wearing  the  uniform  of  a 

*  Mother  of  my  beloved  son-in-law,  John  Battersby  Harford,  and 
of  my  dear  daughter-in-law,  Mary  Louisa  de  Bunsen. — NoU  by  tk$ 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  45 

regiment  quartered  on  the  Downs.  I  retain  much  more 
of  the  attendant  circumstances  of  the  intimacy  which  led 
to  my  Aunt  Louisa's  marriage,  and  to  my  losing  her 
altogether  as  an  ingredient  in  my  life,  than  I  shall  care  to 
write  down ;  but  the  outward  parts  are  so  far  curious,  as 
belonging  to  conditions  of  the  times  which  I  believe  have 
altered  for  the  better.  The  Dean  of  Bristol  was  considered 
a  fair  specimen  of  a  dignified  clergyman,  but  his  advance- 
ment in  clerical  rank  and  emoluments  was  attributed  to 
the  influence  of  his  sister,  then  Duchess  of  Ancaster, 
though  she  had  passed  to  that  condition  through  the  lower 
state  of  governess  to  the  Duke's  young  sister,  whom  she 
had  attended  when  accompanying  her  brother  in  shooting 
expeditions,  an  over-exercise  which  hastened  her  early 
death.  With  the  dates  of  these  events  I  am  unacquainted, 
and  they  are  immaterial;  but,  in  1801,  soon  after  the 
engagement  of  Aunt  Louisa  was  concluded  with  Mr. 
Layard,  under  protest  of  all  relations,  the  Dean  of  Bristol 
died,  and  it  was  feared  that  no  means  of  subsistence 
would  remain  for  his  family.  Mourning  for  the  Dean 
was  redoubled  by  the  death  of  the  Duchess  of  Ancaster, 
which  seemed  to  close  all  prospects  for  the  future, 
when  some  worldly-wise  persons  suggested  that  the 
rich  living  of  Uffington,  which  had  been  enjoyed  by 
the  Dean,  might  be  bestowed  upon  his  son,  were  the 
Duke  but  so  graciously  inclined.  It  was  only  necessary 
for  young  Layard  to  throw  off  his  regimentals,  put  on  a 
black  coat,  go  through  a  short  preparation  at  Oxford,  and 
be  ordained,  if  only  some  bishop  would  ordain  him.  It 
would  have  been  in  vain  to  ask  Archbishop  Prettyman 
(tutor  to  Mr.  Pitt),  at  the  head  of  the  diocose  in  which 


46  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

TTffington  was  situated,  for  lie  was  strict ;  but  Archbishop 
Horaley  made  no  objection,  and  the  thing  was  done :  the 
MS.  sermons  of  the  Dean  were  secured  to  his  son,  and  at 
the  end  of  1803  or  beginning  of  the  next  year  the  pair 
were  married.  They  declared  themselves  aggrieved  at 
the  opposition  my  parents  had  made  to  their  union — all 
intercourse  ceased,  except  by  occasional  letters ;  and  the 
intimate  connection,  which  had  seemed  one  of  heart  and 
life,  was  broken.  I  saw  my  Aunt  Louisa  but  once  again, 
after  many  years.  Fourteen  years  of  married  life  were 
granted  to  her,  and  seven  sons  born ;  a  few  days  after  the 
birth  of  the  last  she  expired  of  total  exhaustion  of  vital 
powers,  on  the  3rd  of  July,  1817,  just  after  my  marriage. 
"The  autumn  of  1801  was  a  very  quiet  time  at  Hanover, 
when  my  mother  was  too  unwell  to  leave  her  sofa,  and 
I  wrote  all  her  letters  to  her  dictation,  which  was  a  great 
advantage  to  me  as  to  the  formation  of  style  and  language. 
The  winter  was  to  me  a  happy  one,  undisturbed  by 
strangers  and  visitors,  so  that  nothing  was  in  the  way  to 
prevent  my  being  constantly  with  my  mother,  reading  to 
her,  or  in  one  way  or  other  employed  by  her,  and  for  her ; 
only  it  was  sorrowful  to  me  to  see  her  so  ill,  and  it  was 
not  till  a  light  began  to  break  upon  me  as  to  the  cause 
that  I  was  told  by  my  mother  that  she  '  hoped  I  should 
soon  have  another  sister.'  This  was  not  long  before  the 
birth  of  Augusta,*  on  the  21st  March,  1802.  I  cannot 
express  the  joy  and  delight  with  which  I  hailed  the  baby, 
which  seemed  to  make  me  amends  for  the  ever-present 
first  sorrow  of  my  life :  those  who  have  felt  the  charm 
which  belongs  to  infant-life  from  its  very  beginning,  can 

*  Now  Lady  Llanover. 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  47 

judge  how  the  constant  interest  of  watching  such  an  ex- 
panding intelligence  filled  and  animated  my  every  hour.  • 
"  The  following  summer  was  spent  by  my  father's  sister, 
Mrs.  Monk,*  at  Llanover.  Great  was  the  interest  of  all 
we  could  hear  about  that  which  was  seen  and  done,  by 
those  who  ventured  over  to  Paris  after  the  preliminaries  of 
a  treaty  of  peace  had  been  signed  at  Amiens !  We  heard 
too  of  the  striking  appearance  of  Madame  Becamier  in 
London,  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  drawing  attention  not 
only  by  the  freshness  of  a  beauty  which  was  destined  to 
outlive  youth  and  prosperity,  but  by  the  first  appearance 
of  a  style  of  dress  soon  imitated,  in  which  the  clothing  was 
as  far  as  possible  from  a  covering,  and  the  wearer,  on 
issuing  forth  from  her  door,  threw  over  her  head  a  trans- 
parent veil  of  white  muslin,  reaching  to  the  knees.  The 
reports  of  Paris,  and  of  the  English  who  flocked  thither, 
were  many  and  various,  and  due  comment  was  made  on 
Mr.  Pox's  sedulous  attendance  at  the  levie  of  the  First 
Consul,  on  the  morning  of  one  of  the  week  days  besides 
the  occasions  of  invitation.  Of  the  conversations  that 
took  place,  which  seemed  much  sought  by  the  ruling 
personage,  I  remember  one  specimen,  which  most  pro- 
bably came  from  Mr.  Pox's  own  communications.  Napo- 
leon observed  that  he  was  much  taken  up  by  the 
formation  of  a  '  Constitution  for  the  Swiss ' : — upon  which 
Pox  remarked  to  his  hearers  '  that  he  was  surprised  at 
such  a  pretension  on  the  part  of  Napoleon,'  for  '  he  must 
know  sufficiently  what  was  meant  by  a  Constitution,  to  be 

•  Hn.  Monk,  eldest  sister  of  Mr.  Waddington,  lived  to  the  age  of 
90.  She  was  mother  of  the  learned  James  Monk,  afterwards  Bishop 
of  Gloucester  and  Bristol. 


48  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

^ — 

aware  that  no  individual  could  be  able  to  construct  one,  or 
judge  of  one,  for  another  nation.' 

"Early  in  the  year  1803  we  received  the  melancholy 
intelligence  of  the  death  of  Beville  Fort,  my  mother's 
youngest  brother,  at  Bungalore  in  the  Mysore  Country, 
where  he  had  been  quartered  with  his  regiment.  His 
appointment  to  a  cornetcy,  and  being  ordered  to  India, 
had  made  him  very  happy  in  1801 ;  and  he  owed  it  to  an 
application  by  letter  from  my  mother  to  Prince  Ernest, 
encouraged  by  the  proof  of  friendly  remembrance  that  he 
had  given  her  by  his  visit  at  Bath  in  1798.  I  remember 
well  having  been  allowed  to  read  the  letter,  which  my 
mind's  eye  still  beholds,  in  her  beautiful  handwriting: 
and  I  also  saw  the  Prince's  obliging  reply,  in  which  he 
informed  her  that  he  had  lost  no  time  '  in  requesting  his 
brother  the  Duke  of  York  to  consider  the  matter,  and  that 
he  was  happy  to  announce  having  obtained  the  nomina- 
tion of  Mr.  Beville  Port  to  the  desired  cornetcy .'  All 
accounts  that  could  be  obtained  from  brother-officers 
proved  Beville  Port  to  have  been  as  beloved  in  that  distant 
land  where  his  young  life  was  so  speedily  closed,  as  he 
was  in  his  own  family.  The  case  of  the  younger  sons  of 
my  grandfather  Port  was  truly  distressing,  his  broken 
circumstances  never  allowing  of  their  being  furthered  on 
their  way  by  the  advantages  of  education  to  which  their 
birth  and  the  position  of  the  families  to  which  they 
belonged,  would  have  given  them  a  right.  Bernard  could 
be  supported  at  Brasenose  College,  Oxford,  because  one  of 
his  ancestors  had  contributed  to  its  foundation,  and  the 
vicarage  of  Ilam  was  in  prospect  for  his  life-provision, 
but  for  George  Port,  the  third  son,  and  Beville  the  fourth, 


k 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  49 

nothing  was  apparently  to  be  had  but  scrivener- work  at 
an  attorney's-oflice  in  a  country  town.  From  this  repul- 
sive slavery  George  had  run  away  and  taken  refuge  on 
board  ship,  where,  after  much  endurance  of  hardship  of 
body,  and  family  reproach  and  unf orgivingness,  he  worked 
his  way  in  his  profession  by  merit  alone,  and  distinguished 
himself  so  much  at  the  taking  of  Fort  au  Prince,  as  to 
receive  public  commendation,  and  promotion :  but  only 
two  days  later  he  was  laid  low  by  yellow-fever,  and  con- 
signed to  an  untimely  grave.  This  sad  winding-up  of  all 
that  life,  and  hope,  and  good  gifts  could  promise,  took 
place  before  my  infant  life  had  ripened  into  conscious- 
ness :  but  I  knew  that  my  mother  grieved  over  the  fate  of 
George,  and  was  thus  steeled  in  mind  to  overcome  a  just 
aversion  to  making  an  application  to  Prince  Ernest  for  the 
sake  of  Beville. 

"  The  year  1803  was  a  marked  date  in  my  life  on  ac- 
count of  my  being  then  for  the  first  time  in  London,  where 
my  parents  spent  May  and  June.  I  recall  with  surprise 
how  gradually  and  imperceptibly  the  fact  oozed  out,  that 
the  dream  of  peace  was  over,  and  the  horrors  of  war  had 
recommenced.  But  young  soldiers  and  sailors  hailed  the 
prospect  of  activity,  and  however  vexatious  the  idea  of 
new  and  increased  expenditure  in  a  conflict  which  too 
many  considered  to  be  as  hopeless  as  it  would  be  ruinous, 
the  insolence  of  Buonaparte  and  of  the  French  newspapers 
failed  not  to  arouse  the  spirit  in  the  nation,  which  held  out 
bo  long  under  reverses  and  apprehensions :  and  a  great 
help  to  this  Anti-Gallican  excitement  among  women  and 
children  and  the  ignorant,  was  the  threat  of  immediate 
invasion,  which  I  remember  in  the  following  autumn  to 

vol.  I.  B 


50  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

have  reverberated  from  the  Gamp  at  Boulogne  over  the 
Channel,  into  every  English  cottage  and  servants-hall  and 
nursery. 

"  In  London  I  was  taken  to  see  the  collection  of  Mr. 
Townley,  which  formed  afterwards  the  nucleus  of  the 
British  Museum,  not  yet  in  existence.  It  was  the  first 
time  of  my  seeing  antique  statues,  though  the  antique  was 
familiar  to  me  through  the  designs  of  Flaxman  from  the 
Iliad  and  Odyssey  and  iEschylus.  Of  the  objects  in  the 
Townley  collection,  now  admired  elsewhere,  I  only  remem- 
ber individually  the  female  bust  of  such  surpassing  beauty, 
apparently  springing  from  a  flower,  evidently  a  portrait, 
but  the  person  unknown.  I  saw  too  some  of  the  first 
paintings  which  were  purchased  to  form  the  National 
Gallery,  and  which  were  then  in  the  collection  of  Mr. 
Angerstein,  whose  house  was  in  Fall  Mall,  the  windows 
of  the  large  room  which  contained  the  'Raising  of 
Lazarus'  by  Sebastian  del  Piombo,  opening  towards 
Carlton  Gardens. 

"I  was  taken,  to  see  'The  Tempest'  at  Drury  Lane 
Theatre,  when  Kemble  filled  the  part  of  Prosper©,  and 
that  of  Miranda  was  represented  by  the  very  pretty  Miss 
Brunton,  afterwards  Mrs.  Coutts.  One  evening  also  I  was 
taken  to  Yauxhall,  and  it  seemed  to  be  expected  of  me  to 
be  greatly  struck  with  the  effect  of  the  general  illumina- 
tion by  coloured  lamps,  but  I  had  a  very  mean  impression 
of  the  evening.  A  pretended  waterfall  and  the  poor 
performances  of  songs  intended  to  be  humorous,  did  not 
meet  my  pre-estimation  of  the  amusements  of  a  place, 
which  was  said  to  be  often  visited  by  this,  that,  and  the 
other  person,  who  might,  I  thought,  have  used  better 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  51 

• 

their  freedom  of  choice.  Why  not  go  to  the  theatre  ?  I 
thought :  for  the  stage  was  ever  to  me  intensely  interest- 
ing, and  I  could  not  comprehend  the  want  of  enthusiasm 
for  a  '  play,'  which  many  persons  professed.  It  was  much 
later  suggested  to  me,  that  this  very  real  and  not  fancied 
idiosyncrasy  of  a  great  part  of  the  pleasure-seeking 
world,  is  to  be  accounted  for  by  the  general  longing  to  be 
individually  part  of  the  show,  to  be  considered  worth 
seeing  or  worth  hearing,  or  in  short  capable  of  taking 
part  in  what  occupied  all. 

"At  this  time  my  TJncle  William  Waddington*  was 
residing  in  a  large  house  with  a  garden,  called  Crescent 
House,  Brompton,  and  I  remember  having  been  surprised 
at  the  insight  and  knowledge  he  showed  in  respect  to 
gardening,  making  a  point  of  having  the  finest  flowers.  I 
heard  much  of  the  journey  to  S.  Bemy  in  Normandy,  which 
he  and  Mrs.  William  Waddington  had  made  to  visit  her 
parents  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Sykes :  f  and  she  had  brought  from 
Paris  many  things  new  and  admired ;  I  remember  a  French 
gauze  fichu  twisted  round  her  head  and  pinned  to  good 
effect.  Her  health  was  utterly  undisturbed  by  the  rapid 
production  and  nursing  of  her  numerous  family,  to  whom 
ahe  was  an  indefatigably  careful  mother,  doing  by  each 
and  all  what  she  judged  wisest  and  best.  I  am  moved  to 
record  this  last  impression  I  retain  of  her,  although  I  pro- 
bably saw  her  many  times  later,  for  although  some  years 
of  the  raging  war  against  Napoleon,  stood  in  the  way  of 

•  Grandfather  of  William  Henry,  Minister  for  Public  Instruction 
and  Foreign  Affairs  in  France,  and  of  Madame  Charles  de  Bunsen. 

t  They  were  still  in  receipt  of  a  pension,  granted  to  a  maternal 
ancestor,  "  Trusty  Richard,"  the  Penderell  who  assisted  the  escape  of 
Charles  II.  after  the  Battle  of  Worcester. 


52  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

the  transplanting  of  the  family  into  France,  the  urgency 
of  Mr.  Sykes  was  well  known  as  to  the  necessity  of  estab- 
lishing the  incomparable  energy  and  intelligence  of  his 
son-in-law  upon  the  property  which  was  to  be  the  inherit- 
ance of  his  children. 

"  I  saw  many  persons  who  were  new  to  me  this  time  in 
London,  but  have  no  impression  of  haying  been  especially 
interested  in  anyone,  except  on  the  occasion  of  a  visit  paid 
to  my  mother  by  Beginald  Heber  and  his  elder  brother. 
Beginald  Heber  was  then  about  to  set  out  on  his  tour,  to 
such  parts  of  Europe  as  continued  open  to  the  English 
traveller ;  and  his  elder  brother  was  still  at  that  height  of 
public  estimation,  which  lasted  over  the  well-remembered 
Dedication  to  Heber  by  Walter  Scott,  of  one  of  the  portions 
of  his  poem  of  Marmion.  There  had  been  a  university 
friendship  between  Beginald  Heber  and  my  Uncle  Ber- 
nard, which  on  retrospect  I  somewhat  wonder  at, — so 
different  do  the  two  appear  at  this  distance  of  time.  Uncle 
Bernard  was  not  only  a  kind  friend  to  children,  but  alto- 
gether a  worthy  man,  intelligent,  high-minded,  and  not 
merely  proud  of  his  family  connexions,  but  worthy  of  his 
place  in  society.  He  was  a  gentleman  all  over,  but  though 
he  passed  blamelessly  through  life,  he  never  followed  up 
any  of  its  noblest  objects.  Though  at  Oxford  he  was 
never  entangled  in  any  offence  against  the  moral  law,  he 
probably  allowed  himself  liberty  to  infringe  many  a  col- 
lege rule.  On  one  such  occasion,  re-entering  the  quad- 
rangle from  a  country  expedition  in  which  he  had  driven 
four-in-hand,  he  recklessly  retained  in  his  grasp  his  long- 
lashed  riding  whip,  and  made  it  smack,  when  one  of  the 
authorities  coming  out,  noticing  the  misdeed  more  un- 


RECOLLECTIONS  OP  CHILDHOOD.  53 

ceremoniously  than  the  offender  approved,  endeavoured  to 
wrest  the  weapon  of  offence  out  of  his  hand.  Much  did 
the  Oxford  youth  talk,  and  much  did  they  laugh,  on  this 
occasion;  but  Eeginald  Heber  did  more,  in  writing  a 
poem  called  '  The  Whippiad ' — in  which  he  displayed  in 
flowing  verse,  a  tale  exceedingly  enjoyable  to  those  who 
entered  into  the  merits,  or  demerits,  of  the  case.  This  MS. 
was  given  by  the  writer  to  my  Uncle  Bernard,*  and  added, 
it  may  be  supposed,  to  his  eclat,  or  rather  gave  him  an 
eclat,  new  and  much  prized. 

"  We  all  left  London  about  the  end  of  June  to  proceed 
to  Calwich  in  Staffordshire,  close  to  the  Derbyshire  border, 
and  the  pretty  town  of  Ashbourne.  I  had  looked  forward 
eagerly  to  this  journey,  with  my  usual  desire  for  further 
acquaintance  with  the  face  of  the  earth,  but  found  to  my 
disappointment  (as  I  have  found  on  subsequent  occasions) 
that  the  abundant  and  flourishing  centre  of  England  is 
invariably  dull,  and  best  adapted  to  railway  travelling,  and 
not  to  the  tedious  labour  of  the  post-horses,  with  which  I 
first  travelled  its  many  miles. 

"The  small  river  of  Calwich  had  been  widened  by 
Bernard  Granville  so  as  to  have  the  appearance  of  a  lake, 
with  buildings  in  questionable  taste  in  the  Italian-villa 
style,  those  at  each  end  serving  the  purpose  of  concealing 
the  entrance  and  exit  of  the  natural  stream,  and  keeping 
the  water  high  and  smooth,  while  a  central  building  con- 
tained a  picture-gallery  and  music-room,  in  which  my 
Uncle  Granville  would  occasionally  practise  the  violon- 
cello, both  he  and  his  brother  Dewes  having  fortunately 

•  The  popularity  of  Mr.  Bernard  Port  and  his  remarkable  talent  for 
versification  is  still  well  remembered  in  Derbyshire  and  Staffordshire, 


54  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

attained  the  consciousness  (so  rare  amongst  dilettanti)  that 
their  life-long  passion  for  music  was,  as  related  to  per- 
formance, unfortunate,  and  thus  best  exercised  out  of 
hearing.  The  older  part  of  the  house  was  of  bachelor 
dimensions :  the  library,  very  spacious,  sunny,  and  shel- 
tered, showed  dark  rows  of  venerable  books,  little  used  by 
che  modern  world  since  the  death  of  Mr.  Bernard  Granville, 
who  had  been  a  man  of  studious  habits,  and  containing 
besides,  a  collection  of  the  MS.  works  of  Handel,  who  often 
passed  his  summer  leisure  at  Galwich,  and  played  on  the 
organ  in  the  dining-room,  upon  which  his  bust  was 
erected.  My  Uncle  Granville  had  added  much  to  make 
the  house  complete  as  a  residence  and  I  believe  with  much 
taste.  He  had  just  finished  his  improvements,  which 
were  to  be  all  ready  for  his  beloved  son's  coming  of  age, 
when  in  June,  1800,  the  desolated  dwelling  opened  to 
receive  the  funeral  procession  on  its  way  to  Ellaston 
Church,  and  my  cousin,  Court  Dewes,  who  inherited  at 
the  death  of  my  Uncle  Granville,  after  a  few  years' 
possession,  sold  the  last  Granville  relics,  retaining  only  his 
paternal  Dewes  property  of  Wellesbourne,  not  far  from 
Stratford-on-Avon  in  Warwickshire.  Calwich  has  since 
been  sold  to  the  Dean  of  York,  pulled  down,  and  rebuilt 
on  a  higher  level,  in  my  remembrance  occupied  by  stables 
and  farm-buildings,  and  by  an  ancient  walled  garden, 
which  dated  from  the  time  of  the  monastery.  I  am  un- 
acquainted with  the  present  aspect  of  things  in  this  once 
well-known  and  admired  spot,  where  many  memories  are 
buried,  besides  mine,  but  most  of  those  who  would  have 
dwelt  on  them  as  I  do,  are  now  buried  also.  At  the 
melancholy  sale  of  Calwich,  a  grand  landscape  by  Bern- 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  55 

brandt,  the  gift,  or  legacy,  of  Handel,  was  purchased  by 
Mr.  Davenport  Bromley. 

"  I  delighted  in  the  woods  and  waters  and  meadows  of 
Oalwich.  Everything  within  and  without  was  strange  and 
new,  and  far  superior  in  effect  to  anything  I  had  yet  seen. 
The  afflicted  chiefs  of  the  family  had  resumed  the  old 
routine  of  receiving  comers  and  goers  with  kind  hospi- 
tality, and  keeping  the  machine  of  life  in  motion,  though 
the  mainspring  was  broken.  After  dinner  (which  was 
considered  to  be  very  late  at  five  o'clock),  the  gentlemen 
(in  silk  stockings  and  shorts)  played  at  bowls  in  the 
spacious  bowling-green,  in  sight  of  which  sat  the  ladies. 
Before  rising,  however,  from  the  dinner-table,  my  Uncle 
Granville  used  to  ask  for  a  song  from  whatever  ladies 
were  capable  of  singing,  and  at  this  time  Mrs.  Dewes 
and  the  beloved  Nanny  were  there  to  gratify  him.  After 
the  song  the  ladies  retired,  but  speedily  reassembled 
on  the  broad  gravel-walk,  for  the  rest  of  the  summer 
evening,  unless  a  walk  was  undertaken,  in  which  I  was 
always  glad  to  follow  Aunt  Granville.  Every  flower 
and  tree  were  then  objects  of  delight.  I  hope  the  walk 
to  Cabin  Knowle  continues  as  charming  as  it  was  to  me 
— a  rock  partially  overgrown  with  the  plants  which  flou- 
rish in  limestone  clefts,  and  overshadowed  by  trees  grow- 
ing up  the  slope,  while  an  abundant  spring  gushed  up 
underneath  from  a  still  pool,  and  found  its  way  to  the 
river. 

"A  custom  prevailed  then,  that  after  the  company  had 
parted,  with  a  general  '  Good  night,'  the  ladies  went  up- 
stairs together,  and  in  two's  and  three's  adjourned  with 
renewed  animation  to  a  confidential  talking-over  of  persons 


56  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

or  things.  Is  this  fashion  perennial,  or  has  it  become 
obsolete  ?  At  least  let  it  be  hoped  that  persons  no  longer 
adjourn  to  a  room  where  children  are  said  to  be  '  in  their 
soundest  sleep/  as  happened  to  me,  who,  though  tall  of 
my  age,  was  reckoned  among  'the  children.9  A  bright 
light  was  near  my  bed,  and  an  animated  conversation  was 
begun,  of  which  I  heard  nothing  but  the  murmur,  till  my 
own  name  was  mentioned,  and  then  I  started  and  turned. 
The  movement  caused  the  interlocutors  to  depart,  but  I 
had  heard  words  enough  to  be  engraved  for  ever ;  and  it 
was  not  a  renewal  of  sleep,  but  a  burst  of  bitter  tears, 
which  followed  upon  the  removal  of  light,  and  close  of 
conversation.  The  trace  of  the  tears  had  vanished  next 
morning :  but  the  internal  '  battle  of  life  and  fate '  was 
durably  aggravated. 

"At  this  time  the  family  were  just  rejoicing  in  the 
engagement  of  my  Aunt  Fanny  to  Mr.  Abel  John  Bam, 
whose  family  (from  the  south  of  Ireland)  was  one  of  those 
who  had  sadly  experienced  the  ill-usage  then  fresh  in 
memory,  from  Roman-Catholic  fanaticism  in  the  rebellion 
— when  the  old  coachman  who  Lad  served  the  family 
during  two  generations,  at  the  bidding  of  his  associates, 
drove  off  his  master's  four  fine  carriage-horses,  to  draw 
the  artillery  collected  to  war  against  law  and  government. 
Many  were  the  causes  of  grievance  which  drove  Colonel 
Earn  from  his  ancestral  home,  and  forced  him  to  bring  his 
family  to  England,  where  they  hired  a  beautiful  house  and 
garden  near  Ashbourne,  the  property  of  Sir  Brook  Boothby, 
who  had  given  up  his  country  residence  in  despair  after 
the  death  of  an  only  child,  Penelope,  of  whose  infant  love- 
liness, short  life,  and  fine  intelligence,  Aunt  Louisa  used 


J 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  57 


to  tell  me  bo  much  and  so  feelingly,  that  I  feel  as  if  I  had 
known  her. 

"  Colonel  Bam  had  with  him  two  sons,  of  whom  the  eldest 
and  heir  attached  himself  to  my  Aunt  Fanny  from  the 
very  first  time  of  meeting:  the  second  son  was  in  the 
navy,  and  fell  little  more  than  a  year  later,  at  the  battle  of 
Trafalgar.   My  Aunt  Fanny  rises  before  me  at  this  time  as 
one  of  the  rare  combinations  of  feminine  excellence  that  I 
have  had  opportunity  of  knowing  as  being  such,  in  the 
course  of  my  life,  and  I  find  it  hard  to  give  a  just  view  of 
the  degree  of  merit  of  which  I  became  gradually  conscious. 
Her  true  humility  and  self-abnegation  were  more  espe- 
cially to  be  prized  in  one  who  had  been  a  favourite, 
praised  and  admired  on  all  sides,  from  her  earliest  years. 
She  was  a  beauty  without  doubt,  but  I  could  only  acknow- 
ledge without  admiring  the  complex  of  external  advan- 
tages.   Her  skin  was  of  exquisite  whiteness;  her  small 
figure  of  perfect  proportion  and  faultless  modelling ;  her 
hands  and  arms,  throat  and  bust,  defied  criticism.  Devoted 
through  life,  to  her  adopted  parents,  to  her  husband,  to 
her  children,  to  every  fellow-creature  whose  needs  or  suf- 
ferings seemed  to  create  a  claim  upon  her,  she  lived  up  to 
her  convictions  as  a  Christian,  with  a  fulness  of  force  in 
acting  and  suffering,  such  as  is  everywhere  uncommon. 
Her  husband  was  an  amiable  man,  and  loved  her  in  an 
idolising  manner;  he  accepted  to  the  full  his  wife's  esti- 
mate of  duty,  in  its  height  and  depth  and  width  and 
universality,  as  far  as  words,  and  acts  of  devotion  could 
go,  but  he  had  not  her  powers  of  self-denial,  and  followed 
family  habits  of  expenditure  without  due  calculation  of 
the  means  remaining  to  him  after  the  action  of  various 


68  LIFE   AND  LETTERS   OF    BARONESS    BUKSEN. 

causes  of  diminution.  I  have  altogether  seen  but  little  of 
my  aunt :  and  she  will  have  been  far  from  guessing  how 
highly  I  rated  her. 

"In  returning  homewards  from  Calwich,  a  visit  was 
made  at  Wellesboume,  where  I  saw  a  garden  adorned 
with  all  the  luxury  of  showy  plants  then  attainable, 
grouped  in  pots  to  the  best  effect ;  for  in  those  days  the 
discovery  had  not  been  made  of  planting  fuchsias  and 
geraniums  in  the  open  ground.  Then  too  I  saw  Warwick 
Castle,  of  which  the  vivid  impression  remains  to  this 
moment:  for  when  I  had  a  second  glimpse  in  1849,  the 
scene  appeared  as  familiar  to  me,  as  the  reverberation  of  a 
well-known  melody.  The  well-preserved,  not  over-built 
entrance :  the  long  gallery  from  the  hall,  at  the  extremity 
of  which  the  Tandyke  portrait  of  Charles  I.,  with  his 
horse,  and  his  spaniel,  and  the  splendid  figure  of  the 
richly  coloured  palefrenier,  are  lighted  from  the  unseen 
end  of  a  cross-gallery:  and  thirdly  the  view  from  the 
windows  towards  the  river,  showing  the  broken  arch  of  a 
bridge  now  superseded;  theso  are  all  bright  visions  which 
I  can  at  any  moment  recall  from  the  long  past. 

"It  must  have  been  in  thin  same  autumn  of  1803,  that 
I  heard  in  the  conversation  of  the  Ultra  Opposition  who 
occasionally  came  to  my  father's  house,  a  testimony  which 
might  well  be  trusted  to  the  insight  and  energy  with 
which  Mr.  Pitt  (then  out  of  office  and  residing  within 
the  Cinque-Ports)  watched  over  the  improvement  of  works 
of  defence  along  the  coast,  and  the  exercising  of  the 
■its,  in  the  prospect  of  the  threatened  invasion  of 
the  French;  when  the  communication  concluded  with  the 
observation,  that  'Pitt  might  have  proved  a  great  mili- 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  59 

tary  commander,  had  his  faculties  been  directed  accord- 
ingly.' 

"The  excitement  against  the  French  which  made  the 
public  mind  roll  and  roar  like  a  troubled  sea,  extended 
even  to  the  usually  quiet  neighbourhood  of  Llanover :  and 
we  heard  families  named  who  had  their  horses  harnessed 
every  night,  to  be  ready  for  escape  at  any  hour — whither? 
might  be  asked.  The  terror,  however,  did  not  last  long ; 
for  the  seeming  arbiter  of  war  suddenly  directed  his 
legions  to  remove  from  Boulogne  to  the  high  plains  of 
Central  Germany,  and  the  surrender  of  Ulm  and  of  a 
gallant  army  commenced  the  course  of  calamity  which 
ended  in  Austerlitz  and  the  ruin  of  Austria,  and  finally  (in 
January,  1804)  in  the  death  of  Mr.  Pitt :  the  battle  of 
Trafalgar  and  the  death  of  Nelson,  having,  to  the  British 
mind,  removed  to  a  distance  of  comparative  indifference 
the  yet  more  awful  concussions  of  Europe.  My  father 
had  an  interest  in  the  navy  and  in  Lord  Nelson  which 
seemed  hard  to  explain.  I  believe  it  was  in  him  a  re- 
flection from  the  powerful  mind  of  his  brother  George,  who 
had  sailed  much  about  the  high-seas  in  attendance  upon 
his  pupil  Prince  William,  Duke  of  Clarence,  and  was  much 
more  calculated  to  distinguish  himself  in  the  naval  than 
the  clerical  profession.  I  well  remember  my  father's 
coming  in  with  big  tears  swelling  from  his  eyes,  to  tell  us 
of  the  death  of  Nelson  and  the  accompanying  victory. 

"  The  spring  of  1804,  spent  at  Clifton,  was  marked  by  a 
vision  of  the  Napiers.  Colonel  and  Lady  Sarah  Napier, 
the  parents  of  that  distinguished  family,  had  come  to 
Clifton  in  hopes  of  renovating  the  shattered  health  of 
Colonel  Napier,  whose  death,  somewhat  later,  took  place 


L 


60  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSKN. 

there,  where  he  is  buried  at  Eedland  Chapel  on  the  Downs. 
Two  of  the  sons,  both  very  young,  belonged  to  that  portion 
of  the  army  (then  reckoned  raw,  but  afterwards  so  famous) 
which  Sir  John  Moore  was  training  into  due  discipline,  in 
a  camp  near  Dover.  They  were  allowed  leave  of  absence 
to  visit  their  father,  whose  illness  was  known  to  be  serious, 
although  not  recognised  as  mortal,  for  Charles  and  William 
Napier  called  more  than  once  upon  my  mother,  and  their 
appearance  and  conversation  were  very  striking  to  me.  I 
had  never  seen  anything  like  them  before,  and  little  have 
I  seen  since  to  compare  with  them.  I  was  brought  to  their 
notice  in  a  manner  very  trying  to  my  great  natural  shy- 
ness, for  I  was  commanded  to  recite  the  poem  by  Mr. 
Soame  upon  Bunbury  (elder  brother  of  Sir  Henry  Bun- 
bury)  who  had  died  young  in  India :  but  their  engaging 
manners  made  this  exposure  less  bitter  to  me  than  on 
other  similar  occasions.  They  both  expressed  unbounded 
admiration  of  their  general  Sir  John  Moore,  which  they 
said  was  not  gained  by  indulgence,  for  he  was  very  strict 
with  young  officers,  whom  he  used  to  send  to  drill,  to  their 
great  surprise,  after  they  had  supposed  themselves  perfect 
in  the  military  exercise. 

"It  was  in  1804  that  an  event  very  material  to  myself 
took  place,  in  my  being  taken  by  my  parents  to  the  trien- 
nial musical  festival  at  Hereford :  the  first  occasion  of  my 
becoming  acquainted  with  any  performance  of  musio 
beyond  a  single  song,  or  a  wandering  band  or  barrel- 
organ  :  which  perhaps  explains  the  tender  feeling  I  retain 
towards  the  latter,  out  of  gratitude  for  the  rare  pleasure 
they  gave  me,  when  at  Clifton  they  were  accidentally 
called  upon  to  stop  before  the  windows:  I  never  could 


^A 


RECOLLECTIONS  OF  CHILDHOOD.  61 

comprehend  the  customary  fury  expressed  against  them, 
as  '  disturbers  of  the  peace  of  the  neighbourhood,'  when  I 
felt,  without  finding  words  to  express,  that  they  thrilled 
through  the  emptiness  of  the  common  atmosphere,  with  a 
memento  of  thought  or  of  passion,  of  absent  and  distant 
joy  or  woe.  The  oratorio  of  Sampson,  on  the  first  even- 
ing' at  Hereford,  and  the  Messiah  on  the  last  morning, 
are  fixed  in  grateful  remembrance.  Mrs.  Billington  was 
the  soprano-singer,  and  Harrison  and  Bartleman  were  the 
tenor  and  bass :  and  did  I  but  possess  the  musical  power, 
coveted  in  vain  all  my  life,  I  could  now  pour  forth  from 
the  treasure  of  song  then  laid  in  faithful  memory,  the 
strains  of  the  first-named,  in  '  Let  the  bright  Seraphim,' 
and  in  'I  know  that  my  "Redeemer  liveth,'  and  the  deep 
and  mellow  tones  of  Bartleman  seem  to  be  still  reproduced 
-when  I  think  of  them.  After  the  evening  performances, 
a  ball  took  place,  which  was  to  me  a  new  sight.  The 
daughters  of  Sir  George  Cornewall,  most  of  them  still  un- 
married, occupied  my  attention.  Miss  Fanny  Cornewall 
became  soon  after  Lady  Hereford,  and  Miss  Harriet  became 
Mrs.  Lewis  (later  the  mother  of  two  much  distinguished 
sons,  of  whom  the  younger  was  Sir  George  Cornewall 
Lewis).  Miss  Caroline  Cornewall  married  not  long  after, 
and  was  slightly  known  to  me  later  as  Lady  Duff  Gordon. 
Mr.  Price  (later  Sir  TTvedale  Price)  and  his  fine  park  of 
Foxley,  are  very  distinct  in  my  Hereford  recollection. 
The  work  of  Mr.  Price  on  the  Picturesque  I  knew  well, 
having  read  it  aloud  to  my  mother,  both  of  us  taking  it  in 
con  amore. 

"  '  Youth  looks  out  upon  life,  as  a.distant  prospect  sun- 
gilt,'  is  a  remark  made  by  Johnson  on  a  very  hacknied 


62  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

subject,  which  must  present  itself  to  every  human  being 
under  one  or  another  aspect.  With  me,  the  '  sun-gilding ' 
had  soon  passed  away ;  and  only  while  that  lasted,  can  I 
discern  spots  which  tempt  me  to  delineation,  or  tracks 
which  guided  to  scenes  or  objects  of  interest.  I  was,  in  a 
grave  and  dispirited  family,  the  only  piece  of  health  and 
activity  and  comparative  cheerfulness,  and  I  had  to  con- 
tend against  becoming  accustomed  to  the  habit  of  dwell- 
ing upon  evil  whether  present  or  prospective.  Four  lines 
(which  I  believe  form  part  of  a  sonnet  of  Miss  Seward's) 
may  be  taken  as  the  text  of  most  of  my  unspoken  medi- 
tations, or  reveries — 

'  Come,  bright  Imagination !  come,  relume 
Thine  orient  lamp !  with  renovating  ray 
Shine  on  the  mind,  and  pierce  its  gathering  gloom 
With  all  the  fire*  of  intellectual  day  I '  " 


I 


CHAPTER  in. 

HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVEB. 

"  Le  bonhenr  so  trouvait  pour  ello  dans  un  grand  d£veloppement  da 
faculty,  elle  r&idait  dans  1' application." — Madame  Roland. 


1  N  the  extreme  quiet  of  her  life  at  Llanover,  Mrs. 
*  Waddington  found  all-sufficient  interest  in  the 
education  of  her  daughters  Frances  and  Emilia.  But 
while  Emilia  Waddington  touched  all  the  tenderest 
chords  of  her  mother's  heart  by  her  patient  and  cheer- 
ful endurance  of  suffering,  the  vigorous  constitution 
and  more  advanced  age  of  her  elder  child  rendered  her 
every  day  an  increasingly  valuable  companion  to  the 
parent,  whose  peculiar  system  of  tuition  was  certainly 
eminently  successful.  She  never  overloaded  her 
daughter  with  tasks,  but  from  the  earliest  age  she 
interested  her  by  reading  aloud  or  by  recounting  what 
she  herself  had  read,  repeating  such  parts  as  she  con- 
sidered would  make  a  beneficial  impression.  "  What- 
ever you  do,  do  it  with  all  your  might,"  was  a  maxim 
from  which  she  never  departed.  A  great  deal  of  rest 
was  insisted  upon,  and  a  great  deal  of  air  and  exercise. 


64  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNS  EN. 

but  when  employed,  no  half  attention  was  allowed  or 
even  endured.  Idle  hands  and  listless  looks  were  never 
permitted  for  an  instant.  The  moment  attention 
flagged,  the  book  was  closed  and  put  away,  and  a  habit 
of  self-examination  and  reflection  was  engendered, 
which  in  general  is  too  much  neglected. 

In  after  years,  the  Baroness  Bunsen,  when  referring 
to  her  child-life  at  Llanover,  often  spoke  of  the  way  in 
which  her  early  habits  of  absolute  self-dependence  were 
engendered.  On  seeing  how  in  many  families  it  is 
supposed  that  children  must  be  "  watched  "  from  morn- 
ing till  night,  she  used  to  describe  how  different  was 
her  up-bringing,  left  entirely  without  any  guidance 
except  her  mother's  directions,  from  which  she  never 
thought  of  deviating,  as  to  the  employment  of  her 
time ;  without  any  regular  lesson-hours,  yet,  when  in 
the  house,  expected  to  be  always  busy  with  one  thing 
or  other,  and  that,  not  in  any  solitary  retreat,  but  in 
her  mother's  sitting-room,  exposed  to  constant  inter- 
ruptions, and  therefore  trained  to  pin  down  attention 
to  the  utmost. 

Frances  Waddington  never  was  placed  under  a 
governess,  and  till  she  was  fourteen,  almost  the  only 
instruction  she  received  except  that  of  her  mother,  was 
from  a  female  artist  (Miss  Palmer),  who  was  remark- 
able  for  her -admirable  style  of  sketching  from  nature. 
Before  she  was  six  years  old  the  young  Frances  used  to 
accompany  this  lady,  watching  her  at  work,  and  very 
soon  beginning  to  take  the  same  view.     Her  improve- 


HOME   LIFE    AT  LLANOVER.  65 

ment  was  extraordinarily  rapid,  and  encouraged  by  her 
mother,  whose  exquisite  taste  and  accurate  eye  detected 
the  slightest  fault  in  drawing  or  colouring,  she  made 
such  progress  as  very  soon  to  outstrip  her  early  in- 
structress. Mrs.  Waddington  encouraged  her  little 
daughter  in  the  practice  of  drawing  everything  that 
came  in  her  way,  whether  it  was  a  landscape,  a  build- 
ing, a  figure,  an  animal,  or  a  table  with  a  pair  of 
candlesticks  upon  it.  There  are  volumes  of  her  draw- 
ings from  nature  before  she  was  six  years  old.  She 
was  advised,  on  looking  at  any  object,  to  think  of  how 
she  would  draw  it,  and  how  the  lights  and  shades  fell, 
and  to  be  able  to  give  a  reason  for  every  line  she 
made.  Especially  remarkable  as  evidence  of  her  artistic 
skill,  and  thorough  knowledge  of  form  at  this  time, 
are  her  many  cuttings  out  in  black  paper — an  art  now 
almost  forgotten,  but  which  was  then  greatly  admired. 
The  extreme  truthfulness,  remembered  as  charac- 
teristic of  both  her  father  and  mother,  is  so  quaintly 
evinced  in  the  following  letter  of  their  little  Frances, 
written  at  four  years  old;  that  it  claims  insertion  : — 

"  My  dear  Aunt  Harriet, — Mamma  desires  me  to  write 
to  you,  and  Bhe  told  me  to  write  to  my  grandpapa,  or  else  I 
should  not  think  of  sending  you  letters,  as  I  do  not 
remember  either  of  you.  My  aunts  Louisa  and  Fanny  I 
do  remember,  and  love  very  much.  My  grandmamma 
Waddington  has  given  Emily  and  me  three  guineas.  I 
cannot  tell  what  else  to  say. — F.  Waddington." 

vol.  i.  F 


66  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Being  encouraged,  as  early  as  1802,  to  keep  a  journal 
of  her  inner  life,  Frances  Waddington  inscribed  upon 
the  first  page  the  precept  of  Dr.  Johnson,  "  The  great 
thing  to  be  recorded  is  the  state  of  your  own  mind ; 
and  you  should  write  down  everything  that  you  remem- 
ber, for  you  cannot  judge  at  first  what  is  good  or  bad ; 
and  write  immediately  while  the  impression  is  fresh, 
for  it  will  not  be  the  same  thing  a  week  afterwards." 

A  great  reader,  and  interested  on  all  subjects  which 
exercised  the  understanding,  Mrs.  Waddington  pos- 
sessed unusual  powers  of  expression  both  in  writing 
and  conversation,  and  had  a  peculiarly  musical  voice, 
which  combined  harmony  with  power  and  flexibility 
of  intonation  and  was  without  the  least-  affectation. 
There  are  many  instances  on  record  of  the  electrical 
effect  which  her  voice  produced,  and  one  is  remem- 
bered of  her  suddenly  speaking  to  a  post-boy,  who 
was  beating  his  horse  cruelly,  in  tones  which  seemed 
to  strike  him  motionless.  Her  reading  aloud  was  a 
special  gift.  Whatever  she  read — the  Bible,  or  poetry, 
or  the  plays  of  Shakspeare,  her  voice  and  manner  were 
exactly  suited  to  the  subject.  She  encouraged  the 
power  of  recitation  in  her  daughter  Frances,  who  used 
from  an  early  age  to  learn  many  poems  by  heart 
for  her  own  pleasure  and  that  of  her  mother :  this 
was  merely  resorted  to  as  a  recreation,  her  retentive 
memory  prevented  its  being  a  labour.  She  also  fre- 
quently wrote  to  the  dictation  of  her  mother,  and 
they  read  together  continually. 


HOME  LIFE   AT  LLANOVER.  67 

Already  in  childhood,  Emilia  Waddington  had  be- 
come the  confirmed  invalid  which  she  continued  through 
life,  and  was  able  to  have  little  share  in  her  sisters' 
employments,  so  that,  till  her  fourteenth  year,  the  life 
of  Frances,  except  for  her  mother,  would  have  been 
singularly  lonely  and  monotonous.  At  that  time,  she 
was  allowed  to  have  occasional  lessons  in  music  and 
dancing.  Amongst  the  few  persons  whom  she  was  in 
the  habit  of  seeing  from  time  to  time,  were  the  Aliens 
of  Cresselly,  who,  being  natives  and  residents  of  South 
Wales,  had  frequent  opportunities  of  coming  to  Llan- 
over  on  their  journies  to  and  from  London.  The 
Allen  of  Cresselly  of  that  time  married  the  daughter 
of  Lord  Robert  Seymour  (then  of  Taliarris).  His 
only  brother,  Baugh  Allen  (afterwards  appointed  by 
Mr.  Waddington's  will  trustee  for  Madame  de  Bun- 
sen's  fortune),  was  for  many  years  Master  of  Dulwich 
College,  an  office  which  he  resigned  on  his  marriage 
with  the  niece  of  Sir  Samuel  Romilly.  Their  sisters, 
though  not  celebrated  by  poets  or  biographers,  were 
perhaps  more  worthy  of  public  record  than  many  of 
their  contemporaries. whose  lives  have  been  written. 
They  were  remarkable  in  many  ways.  Of  eight  daugh- 
ters the  greater  number  were  exceedingly  handsome, 
and  there  was  not  one  who  did  not  excel  in  conver- 
sational powers,  or  who  had  not  a  talent  for  writing, 
which  though  confined,  as  far  as  is  known,  to  intimate 
correspondence,  might  have  been  employed  on  literary 
productions  with  advantage  to  the  world.    The  eldest 


68  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

married  Sir  James  Mackintosh :  another  married  M.  de 
Sismondi :  two  married  the  well-known  brothers,  John 
and  Josiah  Wedge  wood;  another  the  Rev.  Matthew 
Surtees,  brother-in-law  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  Eldon  ; 
and  another  (mentioned  later  in  these  volumes)  mar- 
ried the  Rev.  E.  Drewe,  Rector  of  Broad-Hambuiy,  in 
Devonshire,  and  was  mother  of  the  late  Lady  Gilford 
and  Lady  Alderson. 

During  the  many  years  of  her  early  married  life, 
spent  in  the  centre  of  Welsh  cottages  and  Welsh  cot- 
tagers, Mrs.  Waddington  did  not  think  of  acquiring 
knowledge  of  the  Welsh  language,  which  had  a  large 
share  in  her  occupations,  when,  after  the  marriage  of 
her  elder  daughters,  she  was  only  occupied  by  the  care 
of  her  youngest  child,  who  from  childhood  exhibited 
a  passionate  attachment  for  everything  connected  with 
the  country  of  her  birth.  The  interest  in  the  aneient 
language  of  Britain  which  her  daughter  Augusta 
awakened  in  Mrs.  Waddington  was  afterwards  much 
increased  by  conversation  with  Baron  Bunsen  and  his 
learned  countrymen  Professor  Lepsius  and  Dr.  Meyer, 
who  proved  to  her  the  value  of  %Welsh  with  reference 
to  philology  as  well  as  to  historical  and  antiquarian 
subjects. 

It  was  in  her  fifteenth  year  that  Frances  Wadding- 
ton first  visited  London,  when  her  mother,  who  had 
been  accustomed  to  all  that  was  best  in  the  society 
of  Windsor  and  St.  James's  in  her  youth,  but  who  had 
looked  upon  herself  as  a  kind  of  pariah  from  society  in 


HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVER.  69 

her  Welsh  seclusion,  and  imagined  herself  forgotten  by 
her  former  associates,  was  equally  surprised  and  grati- 
fied by  the  warmth  with  which  she  was  greeted.  Espe- 
cially cordial  was  her  reception  by  the  daughters  of 
Thomas  Earl  of  Pomf  ret — Lady  Charlotte  Finch,  Lady 
Juliana  Penn,  and  Lady  Louisa  Clayton,  who  had  been 
amongst  the  most  intimate  friends  of  Mrs.  Delany. 
Her  interview  with  the  Royal  Family  on  the  occasion 
of  her  first  visit  to  London  is  described  in  a  letter 
from  Frances  Waddington  to  her  aunt  Miss  Harriet 
Port. 

"  June  5, 1805. — I  must  begin  by  telling  you  that  yester- 
day the  Princesses,  and  afterwards  the  Queen,  on  hearing 
that  mamma  was  with  the  Miss  Fieldings,*  sent  for  her, 
Emily,  Augusta,  and  me ;  and,  after  having  given  you  so 
great  a  piece  of  news,  I  will  tell  you  the  whole  story 
methodically.  Mamma  went  to  Lady  C.  Finch's  to  see  Miss 
Augusta  Fielding's  and  Miss  Finch's  dresses,  and  was  a 
good  deal  surprised  at  finding  Miss  Fielding  in  full  dress, 
though  she  was  not  to  go  to  court,  and,  on  inquiring  the 
reason,  understood  that  she  was  going  to  the  Princesses,  to 
stay  with  them  till  they  were  sent  for  by  the  Queen.  After 
having  given  mamma  this  piece  of  information,  Miss 
Fielding  whispered  to  her  sister,  and  then  said,  '  I  have  no 
doubt  they  would  send  for  you  if  they  knew  you  were 
here.'  She  ran  out  of  the  room,  and  coming  back  in 
a  few  minutes,  said  that  the  Princesses  desired  we  would 

•  Daughters  of  Captain  Fielding,  R.N.,  by  Sophia,  daughter  of 
Lady  Charlotte  Finch,  who  was  governess  to  the  princesses. 


70  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BABONESS   BUNSEN. 

all  come  up.  Miss  Fielding  then  got  for  mamma  a  purple 
cap  and  feathers  of  her  sister's  and  a  white  muslin  gown 
of  her  own,  which  she  helped  her  to  put  on,  while  Miss 
Augusta  fastened  the  feathers  in  mamma's  head,  which 
you,  who  know  what  it  is  to  have  to  dress  in  a  hurry,  par- 
ticularly for  Court,  where  she  was  forced  to  go  early,  will 
acknowledge  to  hare  been  excessively  good-natured.  All 
this  time  Miss  Fielding's  maid  trimmed  me  out  in  a  coral 
necklace  and  a  worked  muslin  gown  of  her  mistress's, 
with  a  long  train.  Emily  unluckily  had  left  her  cap  at 
home  and  came  only  in  a  hat,  so  Miss  Fielding  formed  the 
expedient  of  tying  a  blue  Barcelona  handkerchief  round 
her  head,  and  a  necklace  round  her  throat,  and  then,  our 
borrowed  feathers  haying  been  properly  adjusted,  we  went 
to  their  Eoyal  Highnesses,  all  of  us,  as  you  may  believe, 
in  a  pretty  good  fright,  except  Augusta,  who  was  perfectly 
at  her  ease.  We  came  into  a  very  little  room,  which  the 
Princesses,  with  their  hoops,  almost  exclusively  occupied. 
I  guessed  at  once  which  was  Princess  Augusta  by  her 
kindness  to  mamma,  Princess  Elizabeth  by  her  size,  and 
Princess  Mary  by  her  beauty.  Princess  Amelia  was  not 
there,  and  Princess  Sophia  I  did  not  much  look  at,  as  I 
was  occupied  in  admiring  Princess  Mary's  headdress,  which 
was  a  large  plume  of  white  ostrich  feathers,  and  a  very 
small  plume  of  black  feathers  placed  before  the  white 
ones :  her  hair  was  drawn  up  quite  smooth  to  the  top  of 
her  head,  with  one  large  curl  hanging  from  thence  almost 
down  to  her  throat.  Her  petticoat  was  white  and  silver, 
and  the  drapery  and  body,  as  well  as  I  can  recollect,  were 
of  purple  silk,  covered  with  spangles,  and  a  border  and 
fringe  of  silver.    Princess  Elizabeth  had  eleven  immense 


HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVER.  71 

yellow  ostrich  feathers  in  her  head,  which  you  may  imagine 
had  not  a  very  good  effect.  We  had  been  in  the  room  five 
minutes,  during  which  time  Princess  Elizabeth  took  a  great 
deal  of  notice  of  Augusta  (who  says  that '  the  lady  in  a  blue 
gown  and  hoop  took  her  to  the  window  and  kissed  her') 
when  Princess  Charlotte  of  Wales  came  in,  dressed  in  a 
pale  pink  frock  covered  with  lace  and  wearing  a  beautiful 
pearl  necklace  and  bracelets  and  a  diamond  cross.  She  is 
a  very  pretty  and  delicate-looking  child,  and  has  light 
brown  hair,  which  curls  all  over  her  head.  Princess  Eliza- 
beth took  her  by  the  hand.  The  Queen  then  sent  for 
the  Princesses,  and  if  they  had  been  anyone  else,  I  must 
have  laughed  at  seeing  them  sidle  out  of  the  room,  holding 
their  hoops  with  both  hands.  We  were  moving  towards 
Miss  Fielding's  room,  when  mamma  was  told  that  Princess 
Elizabeth  wanted  her;  so  we  all  followed  mamma  and 
Miss  Fielding  into  a  room,  where  we  saw  Her  Majesty  with 
all  the  Princesses,  and  Mrs.  Fielding  and  a  great  many 
more  ladies.  Emily  and  I  stood  outside  the  door  till  Prin- 
cess Elizabeth  called  us  in,  and  the  Queen  made  some 
remarks  on  mamma's  having  two  such  great  girls,  and  she 
spoke  very  graciously  to  mamma,  and  made  inquiries  after 
Madame  d'Arblay.*  Then  she  said  she  would  not  detain 
us  any  longer,  so  we  walked  off,  and  had  just  put  on  our 
own  clothes,  when  Mrs.  Fielding  came  and  made  us 
dress  again,  to  go  to  the  Princess  Charlotte,  who  was  to 
remain  with  Lady  C.  Finch  for  some  time.    We  went  and 

•  Because  the  pennon  of  Madame  d'Arblay,  which  had  ceased  on 
her  marriage  and  residence  in  France,  had  been  restored  on  the 
representation  and  personal  influence  of  Mrs.  Waddington,  who  made 
known  her  reduced  circumstances  to  Queen  Charlotte. 


72  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

staid  with  her  Royal  Highness  for  about  an  hour,  who 
played  as  good-naturedly  as  possible  with  Augusta, 
who  was  never  better  pleased  in  her  life.  The  Princess 
said  in  the  prettiest  manner  imaginable  'Would  not 
Mrs.  Waddington  sit  down?1  and  in  short  has  quite  the 
manners  of  a  little  queen,  though  she  is  as  natural  as  pos- 
sible." 

A  few  days  later  Frances  Waddington  was  present 
at  the  trial  of  Lord  Melville,  impeached  for  having 
connived  at  a  system  of  peculation  while  Treasurer  of 
the  Navy. 

Frances  Waddington  to  Miss  Harriet  Port. 

"11  June,  1 805. — Mamma  received,  through  Lady  Albinia 
Cumberland,*  an  order  from  LadyWilloughby  f or  two  tickets 
for  the  Great  Chamberlain's  box  for  the  last  day  of  Lord 
Melville's  trial,  whenever  that  should  be.  We  only  knew 
late  on  Wednesday  afternoon  that  it  was  fixed  for  Thurs- 
day, when  I  got  up  at  five,  as  we  were  told  many  people 
would  go  at  that  time,  but  my  aunt  Fanny  f  did  not  call  for 
me  till  seven.  The  doors  were  not  opened  till  nine,  but 
during  the  interval  Colonel  Bam  took  us  into  the  Houses 
of  Lords  and  Commons.  I  never  could  have  imagined 
what  a  real  squeeze  was  until  I  found  myself  in  the 
passage  leading  to  the  Great  Chamberlain's  box ;  however, 
we  were  soon  safely  seated,  and  were  exactly  in  front  of 
the  throne.  At  twelve  the  procession  of  peers  commenced, 
the  Masters  in  Chancery  in  long  wigs — some  in  purple  and 

*  Daughter  of  George,  third  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire. 
x  Then  Mrs.  Ram. 


HOME   LIFE   AT   LLANOVER.  73 

gold,  some  scarlet  and  gold,  and  some  in  black  and  gold 
robes;  then  the  Lord  Chancellor,  the  barons,  bishops, 
viscounts,  and  so  on — those  of  least  rank  walking  first, 
and  the  procession  ending  with  the  Royal  Dukes.  Then  a 
man  bearing  a  sceptre,  having  commanded  silence  in  the 
King's  name  on  pain  of  imprisonment,  the  trial  began,  which 
certainly  was  not  amusing,  as  it  consisted  solely  of  Lord 
Erskine's  asking  the  opinion  of  each  peer  on  the  ten 
different  articles  of  impeachment,  and  the  peer  got  up  in 
his  place  and  answered  'guilty'  or  'not  guilty,1  putting 
his  hand  on  his  heart.  Not  one  gave  the  answer  really 
well  and  gracefully  except  the  Duke  of  Cumberland ;  but 
the  Boyal  Dukes  all  spoke  audibly,  which  I  am  sure  the 
peers  did  not.  We  did  not  get  home  till  five  o'clock,  so  I 
had  been  twelve  hours  without  eating  anything  but  some 
sea  biscuits. 

Dr.  Burney  dined  with  us,  and  at  twelve  p.m.  mamma 
went  to  Lady  Lansdowne's  masquerade  dressed  as  a  pilgrim. 
There  were  some  incomparable  masks,  especially  Sir  Walter 
Raleigh  by  Mr.  W.  Lyttleton,  who  lugged  about  his  History 
of  the  World,  and  began  reading  it  aloud  to  Queen  Eliza- 
beth. The  Duke  of  Clarence,  dressed  as  a  woman,  walked 
about  all  night  with  Mrs.  Jordan,  and  the  Duke  of  Sussex 
with  GraBtfini,  whose  delightful  acting  in  '  Camilla '  I  have 
not  yet  told  you  of." 

The  kindness  of  her  reception  in  the  preceding  year 
induced  Mrs.  Waddington  to  return  to  London  in  1806, 
when  she  visited  Windsor  with  her  children  and  Mr. 
and  Mrs.  Ram ;  the  King,  who  was  then  in  his  sixty- 
seventh  year,  being  already  virtually  under  sentence  of 


74  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

blindness,  a  cataract  haying  formed  over  one  of  his 
eyes,  and  a  second  being  in  process. 

Frances  Waddikoton  to  Miss  Harriet  Port. 

"  30  June,  1806. — Yesterday  mamma,  Emily,  Augusta 
and  I  -went  to  Windsor,  and  staid  from  six  till  almost  eight 
with  Lady  Albinia  Cumberland,  who  told  mamma  that  she 
had  a  most  warm  friend  in  Princess  Elizabeth,  and  that 
she  had  been  speaking  of  her  in  the  highest  terms  that 
very  day  at  dinner.  We  drank  tea  with  Lady  Albinia,  and 
then  went  on  the  terrace,  where  the  King,  all  the  Princesses 
except  Princess  Mary,  and  the  Duke  of  Cambridge  were 
walking.  The  first  time  they  passed  by,  Princess  Augusta 
and  one  of  the  others  turned  out  of  the  line,  and  came  up 
to  mamma,  saying  '  How  do  you  do  f  I  am  so  glad  to  see 
you.'  The  next  time  they  all  stopped  for  more  than  a 
quarter  of  an  hour.  The  King  said  to  mamma,  '  I  did  not 
know  you  at  first,  I  am  grown  quite  blind  lately ; '  so 
mamma  answered,  '  But  your  Majesty  looks  well.' — '  Yes, 
I  am  in  perfect  health,  I  have  no  right  to  complain.'  The 
King  then  stooped  to  Augusta — 'And  who  is  this  little 
thing  ? '  Upon  which  Princess  Augusta  said,  '  Oh,  that  is 
a  very  beautiful  little  thing ! '  and  mamma  lifted  Augusta 
up,  and  the  King  looked  at  her  and  praised  her,  and  Princess 
Elizabeth  kissed  her,  and  then  said,  '  These  are  the  two 
others,'  and  she  took  me  by  the  arm,  and  put  me  close  to 
the  King,  who  looked  at  me  through  his  glass,  and  said, 
1  You  are  a  very  undutif  ul  daughter  to  grow  taller  than 
your  mother '  (a  proof  of  the  badness  of  his  eyes),  and  he 
asked  me  how  long  we  had  been  in  town.  Emily  was  then 
shown  to  him,  and  he  asked  mamma  after  Uncle  Dewes, 


HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVER.  75 

and  said,  'Well,  and  how  do  you  think  the  old  walls 
look?'  and  laughed  at  her  expressing  her  delight  at 
hearing  the  chimes ;  and  Princess  Elizabeth  said  to  me,  '  I 
have  such  a  beautiful  drawing  of  yours, '  " 

To  the  Same. 

"  23  June,  1806. — I  must  tell  my  aunt  Harriet  and  my 
grandpapa  that  Pamela,  a  Frenchwoman,  the  daughter 
and  eleve  of  Madame  de  Genlis,  is  one  of  the  very  sweetest 
creatures  I  ever  had  the  pleasure  of  beholding.      Last 
night  we  went  to  Lady  Sarah  Napier,  when  she  ran  into 
the  room  looking  not  more  than  six  and  twenty.    After 
Lord  Edward  Fitzgerald's  death  she  married  an  American 
merchant  named  Pitcairne.      Her  gown  was  of  printed 
calico,  but  only  came  over  her  shoulders,  with  two  short 
sleeves :  all  that  was  seen  in  front  was  a  white  body  and  petti- 
coat.    On  her  head  was  a  little  black  Oxonian's  cap,  made 
of  black  crape  and  beads  which  she  pulled  off  to  Lady 
Sarah.     Her  black  eyes  are  in  perpetual  motion ;  she  has 
not  a  morsel  of  rouge,  and  she  laughed  at  the  beautiful 
Dowager  Duchess  of  Rutland  for  wearing  so  much,  saying 
'  When  I  am  a  grandmother,  I  will  have  a  clean  face,  that 
I  may  not  daub  my  little  grandchildren's  noses  with  rouge 
when  I  kiss  them.' 

"  We  have  been  with  Lady  Stuart  and  Miss  Hobart  to 
see  Lord  Stafford's  pictures.  They  give  tickets  for  people 
to  see  them  every  Wednesday,  when  the  rooms  are  crowded 
like  the  Royal  Academy  Exhibition.  The  pictures  are 
extremely  fine,  but  it  is  quite  ridiculous  to  observe  out  of 
the  numbers  that  came  into  the  room,  how  few  thought  it 
necessary  even  to  look  at  them.    I  stood  very  near  Mrs. 


76  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Siddons  for  some  time,  to  tear  what  she  said.  At  length 
she  picked  out  a  painting  of  some  Dutch  fishwomen,  the 
last  thing  upon  earth  you  could  call  interesting,  and  'what 
a  sweet  composition  is  that!'  was  pronounced  in  her  deepest 
tragedy  tones." 

In  the  following  year  the  Windsor  visit  was  repeated. 

Frances  Waddinoton  to  Miss  Port. 

"13  July,  1807.  —  Yesterday  we  went  to  Windsor. 
The  crowd  on  the  Terrace  was  amazing  and  the  heat 
intense.  The  first  time  the  Royal  Family  passed,  only 
Princess  Elizabeth  spoke  to  mamma  and  shook  hands  with 
her.  The  next  time  they  all  stopped,  and  Princess  Eliza- 
beth kindly  took  a  great  deal  of  trouble  to  get  the  Queen 
to  make  out  mamma,  which  she  did  at  last,  with  some 
difficulty,  and  then,  to  make  amends,  told  her  that  '  she 
was  not  much  altered  since  she  saw  her  last.1  Then 
Princess  Elizabeth  said  twice  '  This  is  Mrs.  Waddington's 
daughter,1  and  the  Queen  commented  on  my  looking  so 
much  stouter  than  mamma,  then  she  asked  after  mamma's 
health  and  mamma  told  her  she  was  very  much  troubled 
with  headaches.  '  Oh,'  said  the  Queen,  'that  is  like  me, 
I  have  very  bad  headaches.'  Then  the  Queen  turned  to 
my  aunt  Fanny  and  Mr.  Ham,  and  Princess  Mary  spoke 
most  kindly  to  mamma,  and  so  did  the  Duke  of  Cambridge. 
The  King  spoke  to  mamma,  but  did  not  say  anything  par- 
ticular :  he  looked  grave,  and  stood  staring  at  her  for  near 
five  minutes,  but  I  am  afraid  he  could  not  see  her.  The 
Queen  is  grown  so  enormous  that  she  looks  as  if  she  car* 
ried  all  the  fifteen  Princes  and  Princesses  before  her." 


HOMB  LIFB   AT  LLANOVEB.  77 

In  the  summer  of  1808,  the  family  passed  a  longer 
time  in  London,  for  Frances  Waddington  was  now 
seventeen,  though  from  her  mother's  frequent  and 
severe  headaches  she  did  not  go  out  very  much,  and 
then  only  under  the  chaperonage  of  some  trusted 
friend. 

Frances  Waddington  to  Miss  Harriet  Port. 

•'6  July,  1808.  —  I  must  now  tell  you  of  yesterday. 
We  were  dressed  and  with  Miss  Fielding  by  half -past 
twelve.  We  were  called  in  first  to  see  Princess  Mary  and 
Princess  Charlotte,  then  to  Princess  Sophia.  The  Queen 
and  the  other  Princesses  were  so  hurried  they  could  not 
come,  but  promised  to  come  if  possible  after  the  drawing- 
room.  Those  two  Princesses  were  very  kind  to  mamma, 
particularly  Princess  Sophia,  but  they  both  looked  sadly 
ill,  and  though  very  smiling  and  good-natured,  I  think 
there  is  a  striking  appearance  of  melancholy  in  their 
countenances.  Princess  Sophia  was  beautifully  dressed  in 
pink  and  silver  tissue  covered  with  blonde  lace  and 
wreaths  of  silver  flowers.  Princess  Mary  was  very  mag- 
nificent in  white  and  silver.  Princess  Charlotte's  dress 
was  blue  and  silver  tissue  with  a  white  lace  frock,  a 
diamond  necklace  and  cross,  her  hair  (which  grows  beau- 
tifully about  her  forehead)  curled  in  front,  and  done  up 
behind  in  curls  with  a  diamond  arrow,  diamond  brooches 
on  her  sleeves.  The  Duchess  of  Brunswick  is  quite  a 
vulgar-looking  old  woman,  dressed  in  white  crape,  being 
in  deep  mourning  for  her  daughter.  The  Dukes  of  Kent, 
Cumberland,  and  Cambridge,  were  in  magnificent  field- 


78  LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUN8EN. 

marshal's  uniforms.  When  the  Queen  and  the  Princesses 
went  into  the  drawing-room,  Princess  Charlotte  came 
back  to  Miss  Fielding,  and  staid  till  half-past  four,  as 
kind  as  possible  to  Augusta,  whom  she  knew  at  first  sight, 
and  seemed  to  like  much  better  than  the  other  children. 
Nothing  can  be  more  perfect  than  her  manners,  her  figure 
and  carriage  are  charming,  with  a  pretty  animated  coun- 
tenance, and  nothing  like  pride  about  her,  suffering  Lady 
Robert  Fitzgerald's  children  to  take  liberties  with  her, 
without  even  looking  displeased.  She  is  very  much  to  be 
pitied,  for  the  only  amusement  she  has  in  the  year  is 
coming  to  Lady  Charlotte  Finch's,  on  the  King  and  Queen's 
birthday ;  and  she  does  nothing  from  morning  till  night 
but  learn  lessons  which  she  hears  Lady  de  Clifford  say  are 
unnecessary.  Mamma  spoke  to  her  of  Miss  Hunt,  and  she 
answered  with  emotion,  '0,  I  was  very  naughty  when 
Miss  Hunt  was  with  me,'  and  then  mentioned  what  mamma 
knew  before,  that  Miss  Hunt  wrote  to  her  on  her  birth- 
day. The  Bishop  of  Salisbury,  Princess  Charlotte's  pre- 
ceptor, as  they  call  him,  said  to  mamma — '  I  wish  to  God 
we  could  have  Miss  Hunt  back  again,  she  cannot  be 
replaced.' " 

In  1809  Frances  "Waddington  was  dangerously  ill 
at  Llanover  from  typhus  fever.  In  the  following 
November,  partly  for  the  advantage  of  masters,  she 
went  with  her  father,  mother,  and  sisters  to  spend 
the  winter  in  Edinburgh — a  winter  of  great  enjoy- 
ment, as  affording  that  mental  stimulus  which  she  so 
greatly  missed  at  home.  It  was  a  pleasure  to  Mrs. 
Waddington   to  recall  many  old  associations  in  the 


HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVER.  79 

society  of  Mrs.  Delany's  favourite  godson,  Dr.  Daniel 
Sandford,  then  Bishop  of  Edinburgh,  and  to  her 
daughter  his  friendship  was  of  the  greatest  advantage, 
as  he  was  able  to  enter  into  the  many  difficulties  on 
religious  subjects  which  presented  themselves  to  her 
active  mind,  and  to  show  her  how — not  to  turn  away 
from,  but  to  solve  them.  His  children  also  were  pro- 
nounced by  Frances  Waddington  the  most  agreeable 
she  ever  saw.  The  society  of  Sir  Walter  Scott,  of  Mr. 
Alison,  Mr.  Jeffrey,  and  of  the  charming  Lady  Louisa 
Stuart  (granddaughter  of  Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu) 
— the  life-long  friend  of  Mrs.  Waddington,  also  com- 
bined to  render  the  winter  most  enjoyable.  Another 
delight  was  the  incomparable  acting  of  Mrs.  Siddons, 
who  was  in  Edinburgh  at  this  time.  It  was  during 
this  winter  that  the  attention  they  excited  in  others 
awakened  Mrs.  Waddington  to  the  superiority  of  her 
daughter's  intellectual  gifts.  After  her  return  to 
Llanover  she  wrote  to  her  nephew,  James  Monk,  after- 
wards Bishop  of  Gloucester : — 

"  3  July }  1810. — I  was  very  much  gratified  by  my  six 
months  in  Edinburgh.  Mr.  Waddington  certainly  was 
tired  of  the  place,  but  Fanny  was  delighted,  and  had 
extraordinary  reasons  for  being  so, — for  never  was  greater 
justice  done  to  her  talents  and  acquirements.  Professor 
Playfair  said  in  a  mixed  company  that  he  never  had  met  with 
so  well-balanced  or  so  elegantly  cultivated  a  mind  as  Miss 
Waddington's,  and  many  more  similar  speeches  inevitably 
travelled  to  me,  made  by  other  men  about  her.    I  say  men 


80  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  0F   BARONESS.  BUNSEN. 

only,  for  I  kept  all  the  boys  aloof,  not  allowing  one  to 
enter  the  house,  excepting  Lord  Glenbervie's  son,  Mr. 
Douglas,  Mr.  O.  Rich,  and  Lord  John  Russell,  who,  bye 
the  bye,  is  the  only  English  young  man  of  any  promise  at 
Edinburgh." 

Great  was  the  pleasure  of  a  few  days  spent  with  the 
Fergussons  of  Raith,  and  the  enjoyment  of  its  fine 
library,  its  collections  of  prints,  and  casts  of  antique 
gems.  On  returning  to  Llanover,  Miss  Waddington 
attended  to  her  various  studies  with  fresh  energy,  as 
well  as  to  the  education  of  her  younger  sisters.  She 
says  in  her  diary : — 

"10  June,  1810. — Our  books  having  at  last  arrived  from 
Edinburgh,  I  have  my  Greek,  Latin,  Spanish,  and  Italian, 
Euclid,  and  Smith's  Wealth  of  Nations  to  go  on  with, 
besides  drawing,  practising,  and  working,  hearing  Emily 
read  Italian  and  seeing  her  embroider,  and  watching  over 
Augusta  in  her  mathematics,  her  drawing,  and  her  music, 
and  doing  geography  with  her.  I  cannot  always  contrive 
all  these  things  in  one  day,  but  I  endeavour  to  make  up 
the  second  day  for  what  I  omit  in  the  first." 

In  July  Professor  Monk  came  to  Llanover  on  a  long 
visit,  when  Frances  Waddington  took  the  opportunity  of 
"  going  on  with  mathematics  and  Latin,  to  the  exclu- 
sion of  most  other  things."  The  friendship  which  began 
with  her  cousin  over  mathematical  lessons,  led  to  a 
correspondence  of  many  years.     In  Mr.  Monk,  both 


QOME  LIFE  AT  LLANOVKR.  81 

mother  and  daughter,  during  the  stagnation  of  their 
Llanover  life,  found  one  who  was  capable  of  entering 
into  the  books  which  formed  almost  their  sole  interest, 
and  who  was  always  willing  to  discuss  them  and  advise 
upon  them.  The  appearance  of  the  successive  novels 
of  "Walter  Scott  were  at  this  time  the  chief  excitements 
of  many  an  English  home,  but  at  Llanover  were 
scarcely  more  of  events  than  the  publication  of  the  dif- 
ferent works  of  Madame  do  Stael,  for  whose  character 
and  writings  Mrs.  Waddington  had  conceived  the  most 
boundless  admiration.  "Le  talent  de  Madame  de 
Stael  agit  comme  une  sensation,"  wrote  Mrs.  Wadding- 
ton, borrowing  the  authoress's  own  words  as  applied  to 
Claudius,  a  novel-writer.  The  appearance  of  ISAlle- 
magne  especially  excited  the  most  violent  enthusiasm. 
Mrs.  Waddington  could  not  find  words  to  give  an  idea 
of  the  "maraviglia,  ed  amore,  la  riverenza,  mille 
affetti  insieme,  tutti  raccolti  al  cor,"  excited  by  the 
first  and  second  volumes.  Meanwhile,  in  the  society 
around  Llanover,  neither  mother  or  daughter  found 
anything  perfectly  congenial. — "  Fanny  and  I  see  too 
many  people  qui  occupent  le  mime  gradin  que  nous," 
wrote  Mrs.  Waddington  to  Professor  Monk. 

Frasceb  Waddxnotox  to  the  Rev.  J.  H.  Monk. 

"Hanover,  15  March,  1813. — I  make  an  opportunity,  a 
thing  never  to  be  found  ready  made,  to  write  to  you.  .  .  . 
As  I  think  you  will  like  to  hear  of  the  persons  that  most 
interested  us  at  Bath,  I  will  begin  with  Mrs.  Frances 

VOL.  1.  G 


82  LIFE   AND   LETTEKS  OP   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Bowdler,  sister  to  Mrs.  Harriet  Bowdler,  who  published 
Miss  Smith's  Fragments,  and  who  is  still  more  known  as 
the  queen  of  a  coterie  of  ladies  at  Bath.  The  two  sisters 
differ  so  completely  in  character  and  taste,  that  they  have 
for  years  lived  separately,  though  on  perfectly  good  terms. 
Mrs.  Frances  has  lived  in,  and  enjoyed,  the  most  desirable 
society  in  her  own  country,  and  has  enlarged  her  ideas  and 
quickened  her  perceptions,  by  a  long  residence  abroad; 
while  Mrs.  Harriet  has  remained  fixed  like  an  oyster  to 
her  rock,  receiving,  as  Bishop  Warburton  says,  foul  water 
or  fresh,  just  as  it  happened  to  flow  towards  her.  The 
consequence  has  been,  that  the  former  has  retained  the 
originality  of  her  character,  and  the  acuteness  of  her 
understanding,  while  the  excellent  talents  of  the  latter 
have  not  preserved  her  from  sinking  into  the  insipidity 
which  must  ever  result  from  indiscriminate  intercourse 
with  the  herd  of  ordinary  mortals.  Mrs.  F.  Bowdler's 
favourite  topic  of  conversation  was  one  particularly  inter- 
esting to  me—the  modern  inhabitants  and  literature  of 
that  country,  which  was  in  ancient  days  fruitful  perhaps 
beyond  all  others  in  worth  and  genius. 

"We  have  lately  been  reading  Mrs.  Hannah  More's 
new  work,  '  Christian  Morals/  with  great  pleasure,  though 
we  must  ever  prefer  the  writings  which  established  her 
reputation,  to  those  which  she  has  published  since  it  was 
established,  the  former  having  been  executed  by  faculties 
in  their  prime,  improved  by  a  long  residence  in  the  house 
of  Garrick  and  amongst  his  associates,  and  by  intimate 
friendship  and  correspondence  with  Lord  Orford ;  whereas 
the  latter  have  been  the  production  of  advanced  years, 
decayed  health,  and  taste  vitiated  by  the  society  of  sec- 


HOME  LIFE  AT   LLAKOVER.  83 

tariee,  and  of  Mrs.  Fatty  and  Mrs.  Prue  (or  whatever  may 
be  their  names),  her  sisters.  All  this  being  considered,  it 
is  only  wonderful  that  she  should  still  be  able  in  the  high- 
est degree  to  '  come  with  power  into  the  conscience,'  and 
to  reiterate  truths  long  since  familiar,  not  only  with  fervour 
ever  increasing,  but  with  unceasing  variety :  however,  at 
the  same  time  that  we  are  grateful  to  Mrs.  Hannah  More 
for  the  publication  of  this  work,  it  is  impossible  not  to  feel 
indignant  at  the  depravity  of  taste  which  has  induced  her 
to  interlard  her  most  animating  passages  with  offensive 
allusions,  degrading  similes,  and  pedantic  words,  by  which 
she  lessens  the  effect  of  her  exhortations.  Another  thing 
that  distressed  me  in  this  work  was  the  false  reasoning,  as 
I  considered  it,  respecting  Providence :  for  it  has  always 
appeared  to  me  that  the  belief  in  particular  interpositions  of 
the  Divine  Hand  interferes  with  that  fundamental  principle 
of  religion  which  teaches  us  that  '  God  works  by  means, 
not  miracles ; '  that  he  sets  at  work  causes,  which  produce 
the  system  of  things  and  course  of  events  we  behold; 
wherefore,  in  the  very  effect  of  those  causes,  we  may  with 
truth  say  we  discern  the  hand  of  God,  but  then  it  is 
mediately,  not  immediately ;  a  'special  interference'  of  God 
would  be  an  interference  with  his  own  moral  government. 
Surely  the  very  word  '  interposition*  denotes  the  fallacy  of 
the  doctrine ;  from  what  should  God  interpose  to  save  us  ? 
from  another  power?  But  we  know  that '  all  power  is  of 
God ; '  otherwise  we  should  be  admitting  the  good  and  evil 
principle  of  the  ancient  Persians.  As  to  the  consolation 
which  it  is  urged  may  be  derived  from  the  doctrine  of  a 
particular  Providence,  surely  nothing  more  can  be  required 
than  the  declaration,  so  solemnly  reiterated,  in  different 


84  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

words,  that i  all  things  shall  work  together  for  good  to  them 
that  love  God.' " 


Mbs.  Waddinqtoh  to  Bey.  Pbofessob  Monk. 

"  I  spent  the  last  evening  of  being  in  town  with  Madame 
de  Stael,  but  in  such  a  state  of  suffering  that  nothing  but 
my  most  ardent  desire  for  years  to  hear  and  see  the  most 
wonderful  woman  of  her  age,  could  have  induced  me  to 
struggle  thro'.  Still,  as  I  went  with  '  the  man  in  Europe 
she  most  admires 9  (her  own  words),  she  thought  I  must  be 
worth  cultivating,  and,  therefore,  in  the  most  engaging 
manner  bid  me  '  not  forget  her,'  but '  when  I  could,  come 
again.9  In  my  life  I  never  was  so  highly  gratified  by  con- 
versation. Her  speaking  is  quite  equal  to  her  writing. 
Indeed  Sir  J.  Mackintosh  told  me  that,  except  Burke  some- 
times, he  never  heard  anything  at  all  approaching  to  her 
dazzling  eloquence.  Fanny  spent  several  hours  on  Mon- 
day night  listening  to  Madame  de  Stael,  Sir  J.  Mackintosh, 
Dumont,  and  Mr.  "W.  Smith,  and  on  her  return  home  sat 
on  my  bed  two  hours,  repeating  the  very  words  of  many  of 
the  sentences  of  Madame  de  Stael,  and  also  the  admirable 
and  acute  comments  of  the  men  who  drew  her  out." 

"  8  December,  1813. — Do  not  think  that  I  am  insensible 
to  public  events,  because  I  have  said  nothing  about  the 
astonishing  reverses.  The  altered  countenance  of  Napoleon 
in  the  print  in  Colnaghi's  shop  convinced  me,  in  July,  that 
he  would  no  longer  '  unassailable  hold  on  his  course  un- 
shaken of  motion.'  That  fat,  enervated  countenance,  so 
unlike  the  Buonaparte  by  Appiani  after  the  Battle  of 
Marengo,  was  not  made  to  govern  the  world.     Still  I 


HOME  LIFE  AT   LLANOVER.  85 

firmly  believe  within  my  life  he  will  be  again  the  greatest 
potentate  on  earth. 

"Poor  Emily  is  much  worse.  Alas,  alas!  how  exactly 
does  a  sentence  of  Madame  de  Steel's  paint  her  situation — 
'Terminee  comme  evenement,  mais  qui  subsiste  encore 
comme  souffrance/  and  this  at  nineteen." 

Fraxgbs  Waddington  to  P&ofessob  Monk. 

"17  April,  1814. — My  Mother  bids  me  say  that  you  have 
conferred  the  greatest  of  all  possible  obligations  on  her,  by 
having  excited  for  one  moment  the  slightest  interest  in 
Madame  de  Stael  for  her.  For  years  Madame  de  Stael  has 
been  literally  '  Fob  jet  de  son  ralle  ;9  and  both  my  mother 
and  myself  felt  to  so  great  a  degree  the  irresistible  enchant- 
ment of  her  last  work,  that  we  both  addressed  her ;  but  we 
had  not  courage  to  send  the  effusions  of  our  hearts,  every 
word  that  we  could  use  seemed  so  dull,  so  dead,  so  inex- 
pressive of  the  sense  we  entertained  of  the  inestimable 
benefit  of  De  VAUemagne;  even  though  she  herself  has 
said  in  her  preface  to  the  Lettres  sur  Mousseau,  '  Que  le 
sentiment  de  sa  faiblesse  mime  ne  doit  pas  empecher 
d'ofrrir  son  hommage  a  un  genie  superieur.'  But  one 
must  have  her  talent  to  speak  of  her  as  she  deserves, 
though  happily  this  is  not  necessary  for  understanding 
and  admiring  her ! — As  the  Brahmin  said  to  Sir  William 
Jones,  '  The  night-blowing  Ceres  beholds  but  one  moon ; 
but  the  moon  sheds  her  cheering  light  on  many  a  night- 
blowing  Ceres.' 

"  Every  word  you  say  about  the  most  extraordinary  of 
all  revolutions,  the  restoration  of  the  Bourbons,  we 
entirely  subscribe  to ;  all  that  is  now  to  be  hoped  is  that 


80  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

the  representative  system  may  atone  for  the  folly  of  re- 
calling ces  imbdcito,  who  were  the  first,  twenty  years  ago, 
to  desert  their  country,  their  brother,  and  their  king,  not- 
withstanding his  supplications  to  them  to  remain  in 
France.  My  mother  and  I  felt  so  much  for  the  French 
prisoners  at  Abergavenny  on  this  occasion,  that  we  went 
over  on  Monday  to  see  them;  amongst  our  particular 
acquaintance,  the  dejection  and  indignation  is  extreme. 
General  Bey,  late  Governor  of  St.  Sebastian,  desired 
the  Vicar  of  Abergavenny  to  write  to  Lord  Bathurst  for  an 
official  certificate  respecting  the  events  that  have  taken 
place,  in  order  that  the  prisoners  may  assemble  and  declare 
by  a  publio  act  their  adherence  to  the  decrees  of  the  Con- 
servative Senate." 

Mrs.  Waddington  to  Rev.  Professor  Monk. 

"  August  26,  1814. — We  have  had  for  almost  a  month  the 
master  who  taught  me  French  and  Italian  to  perfect  Fanny 
in  those  languages.  She  could  not  write  a  line  in  Italian 
when  Moyon  came,  and  her  translations  now  would  sur- 
prise you,  most  particularly  the  spelling,  which  she 
scarcely  ever  errs  in,  from  her  extraordinary  attention  in 
reading,  never  having  learnt  a  word  by  rote  in  her  life. 
Moyon  says,  that  excepting  the  youngest  sister  of  Lord 
Howick,  he  never  saw  a  girl  at  all  to  compare  with 
Fanny." 

Frances  Waddington  to  the  Bev.  Professor  Monk. 

"  Zlanover,  Jan.  25,  1815. — We  have  just  finished  '  Wa- 
verley.9  It  is  not  surprising  to  us  now  that  you  should 
have  requested  not  to  be  informed,  if  we  did  not  like  '  Waverley ' 


i 


HOME  LIFE  AT  LLANO VER.  87 

— that  you  should  hare  wished  to  be  spared  the  painful 
sensation  consequent  upon  discovering  your  friends  to  be 
incapable  alike  of  the  noblest  and  of  the  commonest  sym- 
pathies of  human  nature.  I  have  thought,  and  said,  that 
I  could  never  like  the  person  who  did  not  feel  like  myself 
about  two  other  works,  namely,  '  Corinne '  and '  Delphine ; ' 
but  in  those  two  instances,  the  unsoundness  of  the  moral 
principle  forms  a  ground  of  objection  so  highly  to  be 
respected,  as  to  preclude  a  very  close  scrutiny  as  to  the 
degree  of  native  insensibility  which  must  combine  with  it 
to  prevent  the  strong  sensations  of  delight  and  admiration 
that  I  experience.  But  to  the  case  of  'Waverley'  this 
observation  does  not  apply,  for  wherever  our  minds  can  for 
an  instant  turn  away  from  the  consideration  of  the  gay 
fancy ;  the  sound  reason ;  the  sterling  humour ;  the  powers 
of  reflection  and  condensation ;  the  feeling,  acute,  profound, 
tender,  yet  chastened ;  the  very  soul  and  spirit  of  poetry ; 
the  stores  of  information,  the  accuracy  of  observation, 
which  every  page  of  this  work  summons  us  to  attribute  to 
its  author, — we  are  called  upon  to  admit,  that  the  noblest 
principles  of  moral  rectitude  are  throughout  inculcated; 
that  they  are  not  merely  interwoven  into  the  contexture  of 
the  work,  but  that  every  feeling  that  is  excited,  every  im- 
pression that  is  left  by  it,  is  of  the  most  salutary  nature ; 
the  reader  is  forcibly  led  by  the  author  to  condemn  every 
defect  in  character,  every  error  in  conduct,  though  combined 
with  the  most  interesting  qualities,  though  tending  to  the 
most  desirable  results.  That  our  enjoyment  might  be  per- 
fect and  entire,  wanting  nothing,  every  part  of  'Waverley* 
impressed  upon  our  minds  the  conviction  that  we  owe  it  to 
Walter  Scott.    When  first  it  came  out,  we  were  told  posi- 


88  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

tively  that  lie  had  written  it,  afterwards  positively  that  he 
had  not ;  but  now,  nothing  can  do  away  the  certainty  we 
feel  on  the  subject — every  perfection  that  shines  forth  in 
full  splendour  in  this  novel,  is  discernible  in  a  degree  in 
his  conversation. 

"  We  have  not  yet  seen  the  Edinburgh  Review  of  '  Waver- 
ley,'  and  I  know  not  when  I  shall  venture  to  read  it,  cer- 
tainly not  till  I  have  enjoyed  some  time  longer  the  exalting 
sensation  of  unmixed  admiration.  The  Review  will  pro- 
bably point  out  some  fault,  which  I  may  be  compelled  to 
admit,  though  I  have  not  been  able  to  detect  it.  How 
many  faults,  supposing  they  existed,  might  be  covered  by 
the  single  merit  of  having  delineated  two  female  characters 
so  perfect,  gentle,  calm,  enduring,  yet  enthusiastic  in  senti- 
ment, firm  in  principle,  resolute  in  action!  Ambiguous 
excellence,  though  under  different  lineaments,  is,  I  think, 
to  be  found  in  Dr.  Moore's  Laura,  and  Godwin's  Morgue' 
rite;  but  in  the  works  of  the  most  distinguished  female 
novel  writers  there  is  nothing  with  which  I  am  acquainted, 
equal  to  these  masculine  conceptions  of  female  perfec- 
tion. 

"  But  to  go  on  describing  the  different  effects  produced 
upon  us  by  different  parts  of  this  book,  to  tell  you  how  it 
has  made  us  laugh,  how  it  has  made  us  weep,  how  inces- 
santly the  scenes  it  describes  dwell  before  my  mother's  and 
my  imagination,  is  out  of  the  question ;  therefore  I  will 
break  off  from  the  subject,  after  saying  that  we  continually 
and  devoutly  rejoice  not  to  have  lived  in  the  times  when 
the  scene  of  'Waverley'  is  laid;  for  to  say  nothing  of 
the  strong  temptation  to  be  led  into  error  with  the  erring 
minority,  in  opinion  at  least,  no  sensation  excited  by  public 


HOME  LIFE    AT  LLANOVER.  89 

events  in  these  days,  can  enable  us  to  form  an  adequate 
conception  of  the  actual  suffering  that  must  have  been 
occasioned  by  witnessing  the  infliction  of  the  heaviest 
punishments,  however  justly  incurred,  on  noble  and  inter- 
esting characters,  for  a  mistake  in  judgment,  induced  by 
feelings,  often  amiable,  ever  pardonable. 

"I  cannot  yet  quit  the  subject  of  '  Waverley*  without 
commenting  upon  what  appears  to  me  a  striking  pecu- 
liarity in  those  closing  scenes  of  anguish, — that  so  very 
few  words  are  spoken,  that  in  the  course  of  those  few 
words,  the  sufferers  barely  mention  a  few  of  the  torturing 
circumstances  of  their  situation,  and  then  quickly  revert  to 
other  subjects,  as  if  dreading  yet  more  to  agonize  and 
unnerve  themselves  and  their  auditor.  It  has  ever  been 
observed  that  such  is  the  conduct  natural  to  superior  minds 
in  deep  distress ;  but  every  other  writer  that  I  can  remem- 
ber has  departed  from  nature  in  this  respect,  for  the  sake 
of  harrowing  up  to  a  greater  degree  the  feelings  of  the 
reader,  and  has  contrived  in  some  manner,  either  by  means 
of  the  principal  characters,  or  of  bystanders,  to  analyse 
and  explain  all  the  causes  of  misery,  lest  they  should  not 
be  fully  understood  and  entered  into." 

"Hanover,  August  19,  1815. — To  your  question  whether 
we  have  any  schemes  for  the  Continent,  I  answer  that  we 
can  at  present  only  think  of  going  to  St.  Helena.  On  the 
subject  connected  with  that  favoured  island  I  know  not 
how  to  go  on,  as  by  your  not  mentioning  it,  I  perceive  it 
has  sunk  with  you  into  total  insignificance,  and  I  cannot 
solicit  your  bare  approbation  of  particulars  of  conduct  and 
demeanour  that  we  admire  and  applaud.  I  have  always 
been  of  opinion  that  the  best  justification  of  Napoleon 


90  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF    BAUOXESS   BUNSEN. 

might  be  mads  by  a  dispassionate  comparison  of  the 
actions  and  circumstances  of  his  life  with  those  of  other 
rulers  of  nations,  contemporary  and  deceased ;  and  in  the 
lately  discovered  scheme  of  our  ministry  for  kidnapping 
Napoleon,  and  conveying  him  from  Elba  to  St.  Helena,  in 
defiance  of  treaties,  at  the  moment  that  he,  in  anticipation 
of  his  opponents,  made  his  escape  into  France,  I  find  an 
additional  proof  of  what  I  had  long  believed,  that  indi- 
viduals called  upon  to  govern  their  fellow-men,  and  conse- 
quently raised  by  their  situation  above  those  fears  which 
keep  the  majority  of  human  beings  within  the  bounds  of 
morality,  are,  with  very  few  exceptions,  arbitrary  and 
iniquitous  as  far  as  they  have  the  power  of  being  so." 

In  1816,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Waddmgton  decided  on  spend- 
ing the  winter  in  Italy.  They  left  England  sufficiently 
late  in  the  autumn  to  make  it  desirable  to  pass  by  Paris 
on  the  outside  of  the  barriers,  and  not  to  enter  the  town 
for  fear  of  being  detained,  the  delicate  health  of  Mrs. 
Waddington  and  her  daughter  Emilia,  and  the  neces- 
sity of  passing  the  Simplon  making  it  imperative  to 
[iroceed  south  with  as  little  delay  as  possible.  The 
father,  mother,  and  their  daughter  Emilia,  occupied 
one  carriage ;  in  a  second  their  eldest  daughter  took 
charge  of  her  Bister  Augusta.  By  Frances  Wadding- 
Ion  the  journey  was  hailed  with  rapture  as  the  opening 
of  a  new  life ;  but,  when  she  parted  from  her  home  at 

! -mover,  she  little  imagined  that  three  and  twenty 
years  would  pass,  before  she  saw  it  again  I 


CHAPTER  IV. 

BUNSEN. 

"Let  no  man  out  of  a  weak  conceit  of  sobriety,  or  an  ill- 
applied  moderation,  think  or  maintain  that  a  man  can  search 
too  far,  or  be  too  well  studied  in  the  book  of  God's  word,  or 
in  the  book  of  God's  works,  divinity  or  philosophy,  but  rather 
let  men  endeavour  at  endless  progress  or  proficience  in  both." 
—Bacon,  Advancement  of  Learning. 

"L'homme  s'agite,  et  Dieu  le  mene." 

Fenelon. 

A  T  the  end  of  the  last  century,  on  one  side  of  a  quiet 
•*"*-  street  of  the  old  town  of  Corbach,  in  the  little 
principality  of  "Waldeck,  stood  a  low  thatched  house  of 
humble  aspect.  Here,  on  summer  evenings,  a  little 
aged  man  was  wont  to  sit  by  the  window,  a  picture  of 
peaceful  contentment,  as  he  placidly  smoked  his  pipe, 
and  watched  the  movements  of  his  cocks  and  hens  in 
the  adjoining  poultry-yard.  His  strongly  marked 
features,  his  resolute  penetrating  eyes  and  shaggy 
eyebrows,  indicated  a  hot-tempered  yet  kindly  spirit 
within,  which  despised  all  distinctions  of  rank,  and 
measured  men  only  by  what  they  were  in  themselves. 
Constantly  busied  in  household  cares,  his  fragile,  deli- 


92  LIFE   AMD   LETTERS   OF    BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

cate  wife  lingered  ever  and  anon  to  give  a  glance  of 
respectful  attention  to  each  word  of  her  husband, 
reserving  her  looks  of  love  for  a  beautiful,  fair- 
complexioned,  curly -haired  boy,  with  bright  eyes  and 
finely  chiselled  features,  who  seemed  out  of  place  in 
the  sombre  framework,  which  was  nevertheless  illumi- 
nated by  his  presence. 

Christian  Carl  Josias  was  the  son  of  Heinrich  Chris- 
tian Bunscn's  old  age,  the  unexpected  gift  of  God 
after  his  marriage  in  1790  with  Johannette  Eleanore 
Brocken,  who  was  then  advanced  in  life.  Heinrich 
Bunsen  was  the  descendant  of  a  family,  who  hod  lived 
for  centuries  at  Corbach,  and  filled  posts  of  confidence 
in  the  municipal  hierarchy  of  that  ancient  town.  Yet, 
though  one  of  its  members  is  spoken  of  as  an  author, 
another  as  a  poet,  the  family  generally  had  never  risen 
above  the  rank  of  agriculturists,  a  calling  indicated 
by  the  three  ears  of  wheat  upon  their  escutcheon,  as 
it  is  by  the  name,  for  Bunse  means  yeoman  in  old 
Teutonic  language.  In  his  youth  Heinrich  Bunsen 
had  not  been  fortunate.  He  had  been  induced,  by  the 
promise  of  rapid  military  advancement,  to  enlist  in  a 
regiment  of  natives  of  Waldeck  engaged  in  the  service 
of  Holland.  But  when  he  returned  after  twenty-nine 
years  of  exile,  he  found  his  hopes  of  fortune  restricted 
lo  a  email  retiring  pension,  and  to  the  produce  of  a  few 
paternal  acres,  with  the  pittance  he  could  earn  by 
making  copies  of  legal  documents.  During  his  ex- 
patriation he  hod  married  his  first  wife,  who  died  in 


BUKSEN.  93 


1782,  leaving  two  daughters,  Christiana  and  Helene. 
These  children,  in  the  first  hours  of  desolation,  he  had 
the  anguish  of  seeing  deprived,  not  only  of  maternal 
care,  but  of  the  comforts  of  life,  which  his  scanty 
means,  hitherto  eked  out  by  a  mother's  solicitude,  could 
no  longer  afford  them.  But  his  sister,  Helene  Strieker, 
came  to  the  rescue,  and  received  the  children  into  her 
house  at  Amsterdam,  and  Heinrich  Bunsen  returned 
alone  to  Corbach  in  1789. 

In  the  following  year  he  married  again  with  Johan- 
nette  Brocken,  who  had  lived  for  fifteen  years  in  the 
Palace  of  Bergheim,  a  valued  dependant  in  the  house- 
hold of  Christine,  Countess  of  Waldeck.  Their  only 
child  was  born  on  the  25th  of  August,  1791,  and 
received  his  first  name  Christian  from  the  Countess  of 
Waldeck ;  his  second  Carl  from  her  daughter,  Countess 
Caroline  of  Limburg-Gaildorf ;  his  third,  Josias,  from 
Count  Josias  of  Waldeck ;  all  three  members  of  the 
house  of  Waldeck  officiating  as  his  god-parents.  At 
seven  years  old,  little  Christian  Bunsen  was  sent  to  the 
Gymnasium,  or  Latin  School  of  Corbach,  but  continued 
to  reside  at  his  parents'  house,  which  about  this  time 
received  a  visit  from  his  half-sister  Christiana,  nine- 
teen years  older  than  himself,  who  "  had  the  power  of 
interesting  and  attaching  her  young  brother  more  than 
any  other  person,  impressing  upon  his  mind  the  con- 
clusions of  her  powerful  and  independent  understand- 
ing." Bunsen  remained  at  the  Corbach  school  till  he 
was  sixteen,  "seizing  upon  information  offered  as  a 


94  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


property  to  which  he  had  a  natural  claim,  achieving 
tasks  with  power  and  certainty,  as  though  he  already 
possessed  by  intuition  the  knowledge  he  was  acquir- 
ing/' His  voracity  for  books  was  insatiable,  and  hav- 
ing soon  exhausted  all  the  small  libraries  of  his  parents 
and  neighbours,  he  used  to  spend  any  stray  moments  in 
assisting  his  father  in  the  copying  of  law-papers,  that 
he  might  earn  some  small  coins  towards  their  acquire- 
ment. It  is  a  proof  of  his  aptitude  for  languages  that 
as  the  pastor  of  a  distant  village  possessed  the  treasure 
of  Glover's  "Leonidas,"  and  a  few  other  English  books, 
he  was  able  while  still  a  boy  to  teach  himself  English 
by  their  diligent  study. 

Many  pleasant  glimpses  of  Bunsen's  boyhood  are 
derived  from  the  recollections  of  his  friend  "Wolrad 
Schumacher,  who  at  an  early  age  was  sent  to  the 
Corbach  school  from  his  paternal  home  in  the  neigh- 
bouring town  of  Arolsen. 

"  I  left  Arolsen,"  he  says,  "  with  extreme  sorrow,  which 
was  not  diminished  by  the  gloomy  aspect  of  my  new  abode 
and  my  new  teacher.  But  my  heart  did  not  break  nor 
harden ;  all  at  once  I  found  myself  sitting  beside  Christian 
Bunsen,  in  the  dwelling  of  his  parents,  kindly  received  by 
them  as  well  as  by  their  son.  How  this  happened  I  have 
no  remembrance,  so  suddenly  and  rapidly  did  all  the  late 
occurrences  drag  me  along  with  them ;  but  all  at  once  I 
found  myself  spending  whole  winter  evenings  in  that 
house.  The  father  read  the  newspaper  or  a  book,  the 
mother  sat  by  him  knitting,  a  female  servant  was  spinning 


BUNSEN.  95 


in  the  corner  behind  the  stove,  Christian  and  I  sat  on  a 
bench  under  the  window  towards  the  street,  somewhat  in 
the  shade.  Little  do  I  recall  of  what  was  spoken,  when 
suddenly  we  start  up  at  the  sound  of  a  bell  which  summons 
me  home ;  the  leave-taking  at  the  house-door  extended  to 
some  length;  then  he  accompanies  me  to  my  home;  I 
follow  him  back  to  his  own ;  till  at  last  parting  becomes 
unavoidable. 

"  The  dwelling  of  the  family  was  in  a  side  street;  the 
thatched  roof,  the  threshold  at  the  entrance,  the  stable  on 
your  right  hand  after  entering,  reminded  you  of  the 
arrangement  of  the  abode  of  a  Westphalian  yeoman : 
there  was  besides  a  flight  of  stairs  to  the  upper  story  on 
the  right,  and  on  the  left  the  outlet  to  a  small  garden. 
The  dwelling-chamber,  roomy  and  light,  was  on  the  left 
from  the  house-door.  Christian  Bunsen's  own  small  room 
was  in  the  upper  story,  towards  the  garden.  Here,  during 
my  Corbach  school-years,  did  I  go  in  and  out,  finding  my 
friend  never  otherwise  than  occupied,  full  of  zeal  and 
earnestness  over  his  books.  In  the  morning  he  was  up 
with  the  sun,  which  shone  straight  into  his  window,  look- 
ing towards  the  east.  During  the  summer  evenings,  when 
I  came  in  the  twilight  to  fetch  him  to  walk,  he  was  read- 
ing or  writing,  but  ever  turned  from  his  occupation  to 
receive  me  with  bright  kindness.  Throughout  the  school, 
he  was  admired  as  a  genius.  In  knowledge  and  compre- 
hension, no  individual  could  measure  with  him  in  any 
degree,  and  his  laboriousness  Cast  all  the  rest  into  the 
shade." 

When  he  was  sixteen,  Bunsen  had  reached  the  high- 


96  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

est  form  in  the  school  at  Corbach,  and  he  was  then 
sent  to  Marburg  University,  Heinrich  Bunsen  having 
made  it  possible  by  excessive  industry  and  economy 
during  his  son's  residence  at  home,  to  meet  the  expense 
of  giving  him  a  college  education.  But  the  University 
of  Marburg  was  then  rapidly  declining,  and  in  the 
following  year  Bunsen  removed  to  Gottingen,  whither 
the  fame  of  his  scholarship  had  preceded  him,  and 
where  he  was  most  warmly  welcomed  by  Heyne,  then 
the  leading  classical  scholar  of  Germany,  who  soon 
perceived  for  himself  that  he  had  to  do  with  a  student 
of  uncommon  gifts,  and  rendered  his  future  more  easy 
and  hopeful  by  procuring  him  the  work  and  salary  of 
an  extra  teacher  at  the  Gymnasium.  A  few  months 
later,  Bunsen's  position  was  further  assured  by  his 
appointment  as  private  tutor  to  William  Backhouse 
Astor,  son  of  the  famous  American  merchant. 

The  years  spent  at  Gottingen  were  amongst  the 
happiest  of  Bunsen's  life.  The  ardour  displayed  in  all 
he  undertook  was  shown  in  nothing  more  than  in  his 
friendships.  The  two  youths  with  whom  he  had  lodg- 
ings in  common  were  Lachmann,  afterwards  celebrated 
as  a  philological  writer,  and  from  his  edition  of  the 
New  Testament ;  and  Liicke,  afterwards  well  known 
as  a  theological  teacher,  and  from  his  critical  edition  of 
the  Gospel  of  St.  John.  Bunsen's  room  was  the  largest, 
and  there  a  noble  band  of  friends  was  wont  to  gather, 
whose  bond  of  affection  remained  unbroken,  till  it  was 
severed  bv  death. 


BUNSEN.  97 


"The  instinctive  discernment  of    differences  of   cha- 
racter," says  Schumacher,  "of  mental  gifts  and  qualities 
of  the  heart,  for  which  Bunsen  was  ever  remarkable,  his 
faculty  of  meeting  without  artifice  or  dissimulation  every 
variety  of  mind,  innuentially  or  sympathetically, — was, 
perhaps,  never  so  powerfully  called  forth,  so  brought  into 
living  action,  as  among  his  friends  at  Gottingen ;  Beinhard 
Bunsen,  Thienemann,  Ernst  Schulze,  Ludwig  Abeken,  and 
many  others,  might  be  named  as  seeming  to  correspond  to 
various  portions  of  his  intellectual  being,  and  being  met 
by  him  accordingly.    The  last-mentioned,  in  whom  the 
germ  of  early  death  was  fast  developing,  was  an  object  of 
his  peculiar  affection  and  attention.     How  would  he  carry 
on  discussion  with  the  worthy  intelligent  friend  Agricola ! 
and  hold  argument,  as  in  the  atmosphere  of  Pericles, 
with  the  refined  Greek  scholar  Dissen !    With  the  caustic 
spirit  of  Lachmann  he  hit  upon  the  right  stimulus  by 
.which   to  lead   him   into   disputation:    to   the   learned 
ungentle  Dr.  Beck  he  would  listen  with  the  patience  of 
an  anchorite,  ending  with  proposing  to  him  a  humorous 
toast.     In  short,  he  read  men  as  he  did  books;  but, 
before  all  things  should  be  noted  of  him  that,  having  a 
heart  himself,  he  never  failed  to  do  justice  to  the  heart  of 
another. 

"Often  did  he  in  the  evening  drop  asleep  like  a  child  on 
his  seat :  but  in  the  morning  he  rose  in  summer  at  four,  in 
winter  at  five  o'clock,  and,  after  a  rapid  but  not  negligent 
toilet,  hastened  forth  with  a  face  of  joyous  thought  to  his 
books  and  the  desk  in  his  study. 

" '  Plus  ultra*  was  Bunsen's  motto  during  the  time  at 
Gottingen ;  afterwards,  he  chose  '  In  rikntto  et  jp*.' " 

VOL.  I.  H 


98  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

We  have  a  later  picture  of  the  student  band  at 
Gottingen  from  the  pen  of  Ernst  Schulze,  the  poet, 
after  his  return  from  active  service  during  the  cam- 
paign against  the  French  in  1813. 

"My  isolation  led  me  back  to  my  friends.  By  the 
untiring  efforts  of  Bunsen  our  whole  circle,  consisting  of 
Lachmann,  Liicke,  Beck,  Bunsen,  and  myself,  and  further 
widened  by  the  addition  of  the  admirable  Brandis — also  in 
intimacy  less  close,  by  that  of  Brandis' s  brother,  of  Jacobs, 
Elenze,  and  TJIrich — was  brought  together  again.  A 
spirit  of  zealous  but  friendly  emulation  arose  amongst  us ; 
and  on  a  certain  cheerful  evening,  at  my  suggestion,  we 
made  a  vow,  each  to  each  other  and  to  all,  that  we  would 
effect  something  great  in  our  lives.  It  was  a  noble  circle, 
in  which  an  oppressed  heart  could  expand  and  breathe 
again.  Bunsen,  the  man  of  kingly  and  all-ruling  spirit, 
considering  all  branches  of  knowledge,  all  forms  of  mental 
exertion,  but  as  means  to  accomplish  a  single  great  object, 
— who,  open  at  all  times  to  every  sort  of  impression,  could 
with  indescribable  power  appropriate  and  make  his  own 
all  that  seemed  in  nature  most  opposite;  who,  with  the 
keenest,  and  at  times  appalling  clearness  of  intellectual 
perception,  united  a  depth  of  sympathising  feeling,  and 
who,  with  an  energy,  ceaselessly  diverted  into  a  multitude 
of  channels,  never  lost  sight  of  his  object; — Brandis, 
whose  cheerful  faithful  heart  beamed  from  his  counte- 
nance, and  in  whom  much  learning  and  keen  intelligence 
had  not  lessened  the  power  of  pleasing,  and  being  pleased; 
— Lachmann,  fine-grained,  critical,  satirical  and  witty,  but 
with  the  vague  longings  of  a  heart  that  knew  not  its  will 


BUNSEN.  99 


or  way,  of  irritable  fibre,  and  almost  feverish  tempera- 
ment ; — Liicke,  in  all  the  radiance  of  prosperous  love  and  of 
religious  enthusiasm,  upright,  firm,  earnestly  endeavouring 
after  a  sphere  of  active  usefulness,  yet  deeply  meditative, 
and  inclined  to  mysticism; — lastly,  the  unimpassioned 
Beck,  ever  taking  care  of  his  friends,  ever  provided  with 
good  advice  for  everyone,  having  a  clear  and  intelligent 
but  always  politic  view  of  life,  and  making  amends  to  his 
associates  by  zeal  and  faithful  attachment  for  his  want  of 
susceptibility  of  the  beautiful,  and  for  the  absence  of  polish 
and  refinement.  The  bond  which  united  us  was  at  this 
time  riveted  for  ever."  * 

Academic  honours  continued  to  crown  the  exertions 
of  Bunsen.  In  1812  he  was  appointed  teacher  of 
Hebrew  to  the  highest,  and  of  Greek  to  the  second 
form  of  the  Gottingen  school.  In  the  same  year  he 
gained  the  prize  for  an  "  Essay  on  the  Athenian  Law 
of  Inheritance,"  which  attracted  so  much  attention, 
that  the  University  of  Jena  soon  afterwards  presented 
him.  unsolicited  with  the  diploma  of  a  Doctor  of  Philo- 
sophy. Meantime  his  relations  with  William  Astor  were 
of  the  happiest  nature,  and  with  him  in  1813  he  made 
a  tour  to  Vienna,  Munich,  Switzerland,  and  Northern 
Italy.  In  1814,  Astor  returned  to  America,  promising 
to  come  back  and  meet  Bunsen  again  in  Europe  in 
two  years'  time.  Bunsen  at  once  took  advantage  of  the 
opportunity  for  a  journey  to  Holland  to  visit  his  sister 

*  These  paragraphs,  from  the  recollections  of  Schumacher  and 
Sdbnlze,  have  already  appeared  in  the  "  Memoirs  of  Baron  Bunsen." 


100         LIFE    AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

Christiana,  with  whom,  as  he  wrote  to  Brandis — "a 
few  days  filled  up  the  long  chasm  of  eight  years'  sepa- 
ration." It  was  then  for  the  first  time  that  he  learnt 
the  sad  story  of  his  sister's  life.  The  death  of  her 
aunt  Helene  Strieker  had  deprived  her  at  fifteen  of 
the  only  protector  to  whom  her  independent  nature 
could  attach  itself,  and  for  many  years  she  had  fulfilled 
the  arduous  task  of  companion  to  an  aged  invalid  lady, 
who  provided  for  her  at  her  death.  Meantime,  she 
had  become  acquainted  with  a  young  officer  of  good 
family  named  Faber,  who  inspired  her  with  a  devoted 
attachment,  and  who  endeavoured  to  make  her  promise 
to  marry  him,  as  soon  as  his  circumstances  allowed  of 
it.  But  when  she  made  his  proposal  known  to  her 
father,  he,  having  been  in  some  manner  entrusted 
with  the  guardianship  of  Faber  by  his  family,  felt 
himself  bound  to  put  a  positive  prohibition  upon  any 
engagement  between  the  young  officer  and  his  portion- 
less daughter,  and  harshly  forbade  her  ever  seeing  him 
or  writing  to  him.  Faber  was  sent  away  on  distant 
service  but,  through  two  and  twenty  years  of  absence, 
remained  faithful  to  his  love  for  Christiana.  Then  he 
traced  her  to  Amsterdam,  and  a  meeting  took  place ; 
but  "in  the  pallid  and  emaciated  woman  of  thirty- 
nine  he  could  find  nothing  of  the  girl  of  seventeen, 
whom  he  had  left  in  bloom  and  freshness."  He  urged 
her,  however,  to  fulfil  an  engagement,  which,  though 
never  formally  made,  had  been  faithfully  kept  by  both, 
and  she  promised  to  marry  him  as  soon  as  he  should 


BUNSEN.  101 


return  from  the  Russian  expedition,  for  which  the  vast 
army  was  then  collecting.  Faber  never  returned ;  he 
fell  in  Russia.  At  the  same  time,  the  failure  of  banks 
swallowed  up  the  whole  of  the  funds  from  which 
Christiana  had  derived  her  maintenance,  and  she  was 
left  to  subsist  upon  a  pittance  gained  by  fine  needle- 
work. Then  her  eyesight  gave  way,  her  health  failed, 
and  she  would  have  perished  from  want  of  care  and 
comforts,  but  for  the  charity  of  two  Dutch  ladies,  who 
discovered  her  destitution. 

The  broken  health  and  sad  disclosures  of  Christiana 
were  an  unexpected  shock  to  her  brother,  but  he,  who 
never  in  after  life  shrank  from  a  responsibility,  at  once 
determined  to  undertake  the  cost  of  her  maintenance, 
and  insisted  upon  reconducting  her  to  his  father's 
home  at  Corbach,  till  he  should  be  appointed  to  a  pro- 
fessorship, and  be  enabled  to  offer  to  share  with  her  a 
home  of  his  own. 

In  the  following  year  (1815),  the  desire  of  acquiring 
the  Danish  language  and  of  studying  Icelandic,  in- 
duced Bunsen  to  accompany  his  friend  Brandis  to 
Copenhagen,  where  he  was  received  by  Dr.  Brandis 
(Physician  to  the  King  of  Denmark)  with  paternal 
love  and  kindness,  an  affection  ever  after  returned  with 
filial  warmth  and  recollection.  The  two  young  friends 
settled  in  the  town  for  the  sake  of  more  uninterrupted 
leisure  for  study,  but  daily  resorted  to  tho  country-house 
of  Dr.  Brandis  for  dinner,  and  remained  there  till  just 
before  the  closing  of  the  city  gates  at  midnight.    Many 


102         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS  BVXSEX 

were  the  Danish  notabilities  who  at  this  time  eagerly 
met  the  acquaintance  of  Bunsen,  and  he  greatly  enjoyed 
the  time  spent  amongst  them.  He  also  crossed  the  sea  to 
the  Swedish  coast,  and  visited  the  university  of  Lund. 
A  fortnight  passed  in  the  companionship  of  Chamisso 
was  greatly  valued,  and  left  a  deep  impression  of  the 
rare  gifts  of  the  poet.*  Meantime,  Bunsen  devoted 
himself  with  great  success  to  the  study  of  Danish,  and 
also  received  lessons  from  a  learned  Icelander,  with 
whom  he  read  Snurro  Sturlcsen  and  the  Edda,  &c,  in 
the  original. 

In  the  beginning  of  November,  the  friends  crossed 
to  Swinemiinde,  and  proceeded  to  Berlin.  Here 
Bunsen  continued  his  linguistic  studies,  and  became 
acquainted  with  Schleiermachcr,  Solger,  Buttniann,  Sa- 
vigny,  but  above  all  with  Niebuhr,  who  was  then 
crushed  to  the  earth  by  the  death  of  his  wife,  but 
roused  himself  to  receive  the  young  students,  with  the 
kindness  which  he  was  ever  ready  to  show  to  those 
who  were  truly  seeking  after  knowledge  and  truth. 
Bunsen  at  once  found  his  way  to  bis  heart,  and  the 
relation  of  master  and  disciple  was  then  established, 
which  continued  through  life.  "  Other  visits  demand 
notice,"  wrote  Bunsen  to  Liicko,  soon  after  his  arrival 
at  Berlin,  "  but  I  can  now  only  speak  of  those  to 
Niebuhr.  It  would  be  hard  to  describe  my  astonish- 
nit1  nt  at  his  command  over  the  entire  domain  of  know- 

'  A  French  refugee,  who  never  spoke  German  fluently  and  yet 
wrote  artmiiuble  verses  that  ensured  him  lasting  fame. 


BUNSEN.  103 


ledge.  All  that  can  be  known  seems  to  be  within  his 
grasp,  and  everything  known  to  him  to  be  at  hand,  as 
if  held  by  a  thread." 

The  number  of  men  whom  Bunsen  found  at  Berlin 
with  the  intention  and  energy  to  carry  out  great  plans, 
and  the  reception  he  met  with  from  them,  strengthened 
the  wish  he  already  felt  to  become  a  Prussian  subject. 
He  was  encouraged  by  the  advice  of  Niebuhr,  before 
whom  he  laid  a  detailed  plan  of  intellectual  labour,  in 
his  determination  to  devote  his  life  to  historical,  philo- 
logical, and  philosophical  research,  for  which  purpose 
he  at  that  time  intended  to  follow  up  his  study  of  the 
northern  languages,  by  a  course  of  Persian  at  Paris 
and  Sanscrit  at  Oxford,  to  be  followed  by  a  three  years' 
residence  at  Calcutta  for  the  investigation  of  Oriental 
history  and  languages. 

Bunsen  remained  at  Berlin  till  the  spring  of  1816, 
when  he  went  to  Paris  to  join  Mr.  Astor.  Soon  after, 
Astor  departed  with  some  friends  for  a  three  months' 
tour  in  Italy,  leaving  Bunsen  to  rejoin  him  at  the  end 
of  that  time  and  spend  the  interval  much  to  his  satis- 
faction in  the  study  of  Persian,  under  the  auspices  of 
Silvestre  de  Sacy,  reckoned  the  greatest  Oriental 
scholar  in  Europe.  As  he  found  it  impossible  to 
understand  the  writings  of  the  best  Persian  poets  with- 
out a  knowledge  of  Arabic,  he  began  to  attend  lectures 
in  Arabic  also.  "  I  work  with  fury  and  delight,"  he 
wrote  to  Brandis,  "because  I  must  get  on,  and  I  do 
get '  on."     "  I  am  perfectly  well,"   he  informed  his 


104         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

Bister,  "  and  arrange  my  day  as  I  like ;  work  from  six 
in  the  morning  till  four  in  the  afternoon,  only  in  the 
course  of  that  time  having  a  walk  in  the  garden  of  the 
Luxembourg,  where  I  also  often  study ;  from  four  to 
six  I  dine  and  walk,  from  six  to  seven  sleep ;  from 
seven  to  eleven  work  again.  In  that  manner  I  can 
make  it  possible  to  work  in  the  evening,  which  I  other- 
wise never  could," 

With  July  came  the  necessity  for  proceeding  to 
Florence  to  rejoin  Mr.  Astor.  Eut  Aster  was  already 
on  the  eve  of  departure,  having  just  received  a  sum- 
mons from  his  father  for  his  immediate  return  to 
America.  Thither  he  urgently  pressed  Sunsen  to  ac- 
company him,  but  found  him  obdurately  determined  to 
remain  in  Europe,  till  he  should  be  prepared  for  his 
Oriental  journey.  Still,  the  departure  of  Astor,  and 
the  consequent  revulsion  of  all  his  plans  was  a  great 
blow  to  Bunsen.  He  often  narrated  afterwards  how  in 
the  first  shock  of  solitude — without  prospects,  he  sate 
down  "an  unprovided  wanderer"  in  the  Loggia 
de'  Lanzi, — where,  after  a  time,  he  took  courage  again, 
and  proceeded  onwards,  from  a  condition  utterly  deso- 
late, to  success  and  happiness  in  life.  Sunshine  first 
came  in  the  shape  of  a  young  Englishman,  Mr.  Cath- 
:irt,  who  undertook  to  assist  him  in  the  execution  of 
liis  Indian  plans,  on  condition  of  his  sparing  three 
hours  daily  for  his  instruction  in  French,  and  be- 
coming his  guide  amid  the  treasures  of  Florence  and 
Home. 


BUNSEN.  105 


The  connection  with  Mr.  Cathcart  was  one  which  to 
the  end  continued  to  give  Bunsen  complete  satisfaction. 
But  greater  happiness  was  in  store  for  him  at  Florence, 
in  the  arrival  of  Niebuhr,  who  had  been  appointed 
Prussian  Envoy  at  Rome,  and  who  was  accompanied 
by  Brandis  as  Secretary  of  Legation.  With  these  con- 
genial spirits  Bunsen  drank  in  the  full  enjoyment  of 
the  art-treasures  of  Florence,  and  when  he  arrived  at 
Borne  with  Mr.  Cathcart,  he  found  Niebuhr  and 
Brandis  established  there.  "There  is  but  one  Borne 
and  one  Niebuhr/9  he  wrote  to  his  sister  Christiana, 
and  again — "  Niebuhr  is  equally  sole  of  his  kind  with 
Borne  ;  him  alone  will  I  acknowledge  as  my  lord  and 
master ;  his  instructions,  and  his  personal  excellence  in 
every  respect,  as  well  as  in  that  of  learning,  stand 
highest  in  estimation  among  all  the  men  I  know ;  he 
is  essentially  the  person  to  form  me  into  a  thorough 
man  and  citizen  of  my  country ;  moreover,  as  regards 
the  realisation  of  my  plans  to  become  a  Prussian,  he  is 
equally  the  man." 

Thus  when,  on  his  return  to  England,  Mr.  Cathcart 
wished  to  have  taken  Bunsen  with  him,  believing  that 
he  might  be  able,  by  introductions,  to  further  his 
Indian  projects;  Bunsen's  strong  longing  after  the 
East  had  been  subdued  by  conversations  with  Niebuhr, 
who  was  inclined  to  think  that  the  same  ends  of  study 
might  be  attained  within  the  limits  of  Europe,  com- 
bined with  which  Bunsen  felt  that  an  eastern  journey 
must  separate  him  from  Niebuhr,   from    whom,  he 


106         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

wrote,    "as  a  man   and  a  scholar  I  can  learn   more 
than  from  all  other  persons  put  together." 

Amid  the  varied  enjoyments  of  Rome,  that  which 
Bunsen  most  appreciated  was  the  leisure  for  taking  in 
and  digesting  the  fruit  of  his  former  labours.  At  first 
he  entered  little  into  society,  and  shrunk  from  making 
acquaintances,  dreading  the  uncon  geniality  of  those 
who  seek  to  renew  in  Borne  the  frivolities  of  the 
London  season.  But  it  so  happened  that  amongst  the 
first  people  to  whom  he  was  introduced,  were  Mrs. 
Waddington  and  her  daughters,  then  occupying  the 
first-floor  of  the  Palazzo  Gavotti.  Here,  while  Mr. 
Waddington  pursued  the  even  tenour  of  his  home  life, 
reading  or  writing  in  a  nook  screened  off  in  one  of  the 
apartments,  and  retiring  to  bed  at  his  usual  early  hour, 
all  that  was  best  in  English,  Italian,  and  German 
society  gathered  around  his  wifer  whose  noble  type  of 
beauty  was  almost  more  remarkable  than  in  her  first 
youth,  and  whose  intellectual  charm  was  equally  felt 
by  men  of  all  nationalities.  At  her  receptions  in  the 
'  prima  sera '  Bunsen  was  a  welcome  and  an  unfailing 
guest,  rejoicing  that  he  found  there  few  except  those 
who  were  capable  of  taking  something  more  than  a 
surface-interest  in  the  scenes  around  them.  The  young 
Emily  Waddington,  whose  whole  life  had  hitherto  been 
clouded  by  ill-health,  had  benefited  greatly  from  the 
Italian  climate,  and  was  enjoying  a  transient  happiness 
in  her  engagement  with  Colonel  Manley.  This  cir- 
cumstance, and  a  congeniality  of  interests,  combined  to 


BUNSEN.  107 


throw  Bunsen  completely  into  the  society  of  her  elder 
sister,  when  he  accompanied  them  to  visit  the  temples 
and  towers  of  Rome  and  the  Campagna.     Already  in 
April,  1817,  he  had  written  to  his  sister  Christiana  that 
he  was  permitted  to  read  German  with  Miss  Wadding- 
ton,  but  that  he  "  was  a  little  in  love,"  and  that  there- 
fore, as  a  penniless  student  who  could  not  think  of 
aspiring  to  the  hand  of  a  girl  of  fortune,  he  should 
"no  longer  go  continually  to  visit  the  family."     Yet 
Mrs.  Waddington  so  little  suspected  the  possibility  of 
an  attachment  to  her  idolised  daughter,  that  she  con- 
tinued to  encourage  the  visits  of  one  whose  society  and 
information  gave  an  additional  charm  to  the  interests 
of  Rome,  and  thus,  when  on  the  last  morning  of  May, 
her  eyes  were  suddenly  opened  by  Bunsen's  own  reve- 
lation of  his  love  for  her  child  and  his  agony  at  their 
impending  separation,  she  felt  that — while  she  had 
every  confidence  in  the  man  who  asked  her  for  the 
greatest  blessing  she  had  to  bestow — she  could  not 
undo   her  own  work.     Mr.   Waddington  was  much 
startled  and  appealed  to  Niebuhr,  in  the  unexpected 
turn  affairs  had  taken ;  but  Niebuhr  only  answered — 
"  The  talents,  abilities,  and  character  of  Bunsen  are  a 
capital  more  safely  to  be  reckoned  upon  than  any  other, 
however  securely  invested ;  and  had  I  a  daughter  my- 
self, to  such  a  man  I  would  gladly  consign  her." 
That  evening,   having  received    the  consent  of  her 
parents,— on  the  steps  of  the  cross,  which  for  centuries 
marked  the  site  of  Christian  martyrdoms  in  the  centre 


108         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

of   the  Coliseum, — Bunsen  asked  Frances  Wadding- 
ton  to  become  his  wife. 

Mrs.  Waddington  to  the  Bey.  Professor  Monk. 

u  ...  I  will  own  to  you  that  my  spirits  have  had 
a  shake,  and  that  nothing  but  presenting  to  myself  the 
agony  of  my  death-bed,  had  I  left  Fanny  without  a  pro- 
tector, without  a  person  to  be  to  her  What  I  had  been, 
brings  my  mind  into  the  state  of  thankfulness  and  cheer- 
fulness, that  it  ought  to  be  in,  from  the  consciousness  of 
her  being  as  happy  as  it  is  possible  for  a  human  being  to 
be :  for  some  bitter  must  be  mixed  with  the  sweet,  and 
she  herself  says  that  she  should  fear  that  her  present  en- 
joyments were  too  great  to  last,  did  not  the  loss  of  me, 
and  the  banishment  from  England,  cost  such  pangs,  as 
make  her  confidently  hope  to  preserve  all  the  blessings 
that  her  union  with  the  exclusive  choice  of  her  heart,  with 
the  object  of  her  utmost  admiration  and  love,  has  put  her 
in  possession  of.  It  is  only  doing  justice  to  the  best  of 
daughters  and  one  of  the  most  perfect  of  human  beings,  to 
tell  you  that  at  any  moment  one  word  from  me  would  have 
prevented  my  dearest  Fanny's  marriage,  and  that  without 
a  murmur  she  would  have  given  Bunsen  up.  But  after  I 
had  for  almost  six  months  afforded  every  facility  for  her  to 
attach  herself,  after  I  was  myself  convinced  that  excepting 
in  fortune  and  in  his  being  a  foreigner  he  was  in  every 
way  completely  qualified  to  make  her  happy,  I  should 
have  been  a  monster  from  selfish  considerations  to  have 
destroyed  my  own  work.  How  it  was  my  own  work,  and 
yet  unintentionally,  I  have  to  recount.  Bunsen's  astonishing 
self-command  had  prevented  his  voice  from  betraying  him, 


BUNSEN.  109 


and  the  innumerable  multiplicity  of  objects  in  Borne  that  we 
almost  daily  were  together  engaged  in  contemplating,  had 
furnished  such  an  unceasing  flow  of  conversation,  that  there 
literally  was  not  time  for  sentiment  to  be  displayed :  while 
his  respect  for  me,  caused  him  so  constantly  to  offer  me  his 
arm,  to  place  himself  by  my  side,  that  there  was  no  marked 
attention  towards  Fanny,  though  the  most  unfeigned  ad- 
miration. The  great  strength  of  Bunsen's  expressions  of 
astonishment  and  delight,  in  Fanny's  mine  of  mind  and 
knowledge,  I  attributed  in  some  part  to  his  never  having 
before  met  with  a  well-educated  Englishwoman,  and  the 
rest,  I  quietly  took  as  her  due,  having  too  long  been  accus- 
tomed to  her  being  valued  just  in  proportion  to  the  dis- 
cernment, virtue,  and  talents,  of  the  individual  with  whom 
she  conversed.  Security  was  still  further  lulled  by  know- 
ing Bunsen's  plans,  that  to  Calcutta,  for  the  purposes 
of  study  (the  laws,  language,  and  philosophy  of  the 
Hindoos  being  one  of  the  subjects  to  which  he  is  most 
devoted,  as  subservient  to  the  great  object  to  which  his 
mind  ever  since  eighteen  has  been  bent — the  affinity  of 
language),  he  was  resolved  within  two  years  to  set  off, 
and  to  obtain  some  previous  information  he  had  given 
me  two  letters,  which  Lord  Lansdowne  at  Mr.  Niebuhr's 
request  was  to  present,  that  I  might  correct  the  German 
idiom  ....  But  I  must  not  say  more  about  Bunsen,  and 
about  Fanny  only  give  the  substance,  that  she  declared  to 
me— and  her  word  is  truth,  that  till  Bunsen  proposed  to 
her,  she  did  not  know  she  was  attached  to  him : — that  she 
had  delighted  in  floating  on  in  her  present  existence,  that 
each  moment  was  filled  to  her  heart's  content,  and  that 
she  never  asked  herself,  how  large  or  how  small  a  share 


110         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

Bunsen  had  individually  in  her  enjoyments ;  that  she  felt 
with  so  sad  a  sensation  that  she  was  going  very  soon  to 
quit  Borne  and  Emily,  that  from  principle  she  always 
drove  the  thought  from  her  mind,  knowing  that  a  calamity 
is  always  the  better  borne,  from  not  being  previously 
dwelt  upon;  that  she  novor  analysed  her  regrets,  and 
therefore  never  ascertained  the  component  parts,  and  that 
so  far  from  concealing  from  me  her  inmost  thoughts,  she 
did  not  know  of  their  existence,  till  on  Saturday,  the  31st 
May,  in  the  Coliseum  by  moonlight  at  eleven  o'clock  at 
night  (having  on  that  very  morning  asked  my  permission 
to  speak  for  himself),  Bunsen  presented  to  her  view  what 
he  should  suffer  from  a  separation,  how  he  should  be 
blessed  by  a  union:  when  every  nerve  vibrated  to  the 
touch,  and  she  was  aware  that  her  life  would  lose  half  its 
charm  if  not  spent  with  him.19 


CHAPTER  V. 

MARRIAGE. 

M  Felices  ter  et  amplius, 

Quos  irrupta  tenet  copula,  nee  malis 
Divulsus  querimoniis 
Suprema  citius  Bolvet  amor  die." 

Horace. 

"  Nothing  is  sweeter  than  Love,  nothing  more  courageous, 
nothing  higher,  nothing  wider,  nothing  more  pleasant,  no- 
thing roller  nor  better  in  heaven  and  earth ;  because  Love  is 
born  of  God,  and  cannot  rest  but  in  God,  above  all  created 
things." — Thomas  A  Kempis. 

AN  the  1st  of  July,  1817,  Frances  Waddington  was 
"  married  to  Bunsen,  in  the  ancient  chapel  of  the 
old  Palazzo  Savelli,  which  rises  upon  the  ruins  of  the 
Theatre  of  Marcellus,  and  which  was  then  inhabited  by 
Niebuhr.  Only  her  parents  and  youngest  sister,  Nie- 
buhr,  Brandis,  and  Mr.  Clifford — an  old  family  friend, 
were  present.  Bunsen's  first  gift  to  his  wife  was  his 
father's  wedding-ring.  "  It  is  nothing  very  beautiful," 
he  said,  "  but  I  hope  you  will  let  me  see  it  sometimes 
on  your  hand — it  was  given  me  with  my  father's 
blessing,  and  I  transfer  that  to  you  with  it — it  is  a 
good  blessing."  The  wedded  pair  drove  immediately 
after  the  ceremony  to  Frascati,  where  rooms  were  ready 


112         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

for  them  in  the  Casino  Accorambuoni,  one  of  those 
charming  flower-hidden  residences,  half  stately- villa, 
half  primitive  farm-house,  which  are  only  to  be  found 
in  Italy,  and  only  to  be  found  in  perfection  on  the 
Alban  hills.  "  In  the  carriage  we  spoke  not  a  word  at 
first,"  wrote  Bunsen,  soon  afterwards,  to  his  sister 
Christiana,  "  but  as  we  passed  the  Coliseum  and  looked 
towards  the  Cross  at  the  foot  of  which  we  had  sat,  when 
we  exchanged  the  important  words,— we  pressed  each 
other's  hands." 

It  is  quaintly  characteristic  of  the  hospitalities 
which  were  such  a  leading  feature  in  the  family  life 
of  Bunsen  and  his  wife,  and  which  were  equally  con- 
tinued in  all  places  and  under  all  circumstances,  that 
they  should  have  begun  immediately  after  their  mar- 
riage. A  day  or  two  were  scarcely  suffered  to  elapse 
before  Carl  August  Brandis,  Bunsen's  dearest  friend, 
came  to  share  his  happiness  at  Frascati.  With  him, 
the  Bunsens  spent  the  long  bright  days  of  the  late 
summer  in  full  enjoyment  of  the  glorious  wooded  hills 
which  look  down  upon  Campagna,  and  of  the  two  blue 
lakes  which  are  set  like  gems  in  their  midst ;  together 
they  passed  the  mornings  in  the  large  cool  rooms,  or 
in  the  little  garden  with  its  two  fountains,  in  a  com- 
mon reading  of  Milton,  Dante,  or  Bacon ;  and  together, 
in  the  evenings,  they  went  forth  on  long  excursions, 
lingering  till  the  splendours  of  sunset  had  tinged  the 
plain  and  the  distant  city  with  crimson  and  gold,  and 
returning  by  the  light  of  the  fire-flies. 


MARRIAGE.  113 


The  glorious  subjects  in  the  Alban  Hills  and  at 
Home,  as  it  was  in  those  days  long  ago,  gave  constant 
employment  to  the  artistic  powers  of  Madame  Bunsen. 
Thorwaldsen  said  of  her  sepia  sketches  of  Borne  and  its 
environs  that  he  "  knew  no  artist,  whether  professional 
or  amateur,  who  then  equalled  her  in  exact  representa- 
tion, from  her  power  of  choosing  a  view  which  made  a 
complete  picture,  without  adding  or  abstracting  from 
the  reality  before  her." 

From  Frascati,  Bunsen  wrote  to  his  sister,  begging 
her  to  tranquillise  his  friends  in  Holland  as  to  his  pur- 
poses in  life.  "  When  they  hear  that  I  have  given  up 
my  journey  to  India  and  am  married,  they  may,  like 
many  of  my  acquaintances  (not  my  intimate  friends) 
in  Germany,  apprehend  that  all  my  undertakings  are 
given  up.  But  my  journey  to  India  was  only  to  be  a 
means  to  an  end ;  and  even  though  it  may  sound  pre- 
sumptuous that  I  hope  to  succeed  in  forming  a  clear 
view  of  the  earliest  life  of  the  Oriental  nations,  without 
crossing  the  line — yet  do  I  make  that  declaration  with- 
out misgiving."  In  the  autumn,  however,  Bunsen/s 
tie  to  Borne  was  riveted,  for  Brandis,  who  had  been 
acting  as  diplomatic  secretary  to  Niebuhr  since  his 
arrival  in  Borne,  was  obliged  by  ill-health  to  resign 
and  to  return  to  Germany;  when  Niebuhr  invited 
Bunsen  to  succeed  to  the  vacant  office  of  Secretary  of 
Legation. 

Emily  "Waddington  had  been  married  a  few  days 
before  her  sister  to  Colonel  Manley,  who  had  an  ap- 

VOL.  I.  I 


114        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

pointment  from  the  Pope,  which  compelled  him  to  fix 
his  residence  at  Rome  or  in  the  Alban  Hills ;  and  in 
both  places  the  sisters,  who  in  earlier  life  had  not  been 
congenial  to  one  another,  met  affectionately  and  often. 
The  trial  of  separation  from  their  mother  was  equally 
severe  to  both  and  drew  them  closer  to  each  other,  for 
a  few  days  after  the  marriage  of  her  eldest  daughter, 
Mrs.  Waddington  had  set  out  on  her  return  to  England 
with  her  husband  and  her  youngest  daughter  Augusta 
— feeling  that  the  necessary  wrench  from  her  elder 
children  would  be  the  more  difficult,  the  longer  it  was 
delayed. 

"  Only  fifteen  days  after  my  marriage,"  wrote  Madame 
Bunsen  to  Bishop  Sandford,  "  I  parted  from  her,  who  has 
been  not  only  the  guide  and  protectress  of  my  existence,  but 
in  such  a  degree  the  principal,  as  to  seem  almost  the  sole 
object  of  my  thoughts  and  affections — who  has  been  to  me 
far  more  than  any  words  can  express.  In  the  peculiarly  close 
connection  that  subsisted  between  my  mother  and  myself, 
if  she  had  had  the  shadow  of  a  wish  that  I  should  have 
remained  with  her  till  death  parted  us,  it  would  have  been 
a  natural  and  necessary  consequence  that  no  circumstances 
of  unqualified  esteem  and  attachment  to  another  person 
could  have  caused  me  to  leave  her,  even  though  she  had 
consented  and  acquiesced.  She  who  had  been  '  my  fate,  alone 
could  speak  my  doom,' — and  it  required  her  decided  will 
and  desire  to  dissolve  the  tie  that  bound  us.  Her  entire 
approval  of  Mr.  Bunsen  will  be  sufficient  to  satisfy  you,  my 
dear  sir,  and  you  will  believe  that  every  month,  and  every 


MARRIAGE.  115 


day,  strengthens  the  confidence  in  his  principles  and  in  his 
affection  with  which  I  at  first  consigned  myself  to  his  pro- 
tection. That  he  should  not  be  an  Englishman — and  that, 
consequently,  a  great  portion  of  my  life  must  be  spent  out 
of  England,  and  separated  from  my  mother — will  occasion 
the  admixture  of  so  much  positive  evil  amongst  the  bless- 
ings I  enjoy,  as  almost  to  be  a  security  to  me  that  I  may 
hope  for  a  continuance  of  that  abundant  share  of  good 
which  has  been  bestowed  upon  me.  Had  every  circum- 
stance attending  my  change  of  condition  been  exactly  as  I 
could  have  wished,  it  would  have  been  fearful — for  in  the 
natural  course  of  things,  some  blow  utterly  destructive  of 
my  happiness  must  have  been  expected  to  follow.  My  life 
had  hitherto  been  so  blest-— I  had  been  so  nourished  on 
tenderness,  so  accustomed  to  talents,  understanding,  and 
cultivation,  as  well  as  to  high  religious  principle,  that  the 
number  of  essential  requisites  to  enable  me  to  lead  any- 
thing more  than  a  mere  vegetative  existence  was  great, 
and  I  never  anticipated  the  possibility  of  finding  them 
united.  For  having  thus  found  them,  I  never  cease  to  be 
thankful,  although  I  feel  that  I  can  never  be  thankful 
enough.." 

The  close  tie  which  had  existed  between  mother  and 
daughter  was  never  weakened  by  absence,  and  at  the 
end  of  twelve  years'  separation  the  mother  found  in  her 
child  the  same  heart-confidence  as  when  they  parted. 
But  she  found  in  her  also  one  of  the  noblest  types  of 
wedded  love  that  any  country  has  produced,  showing 
bow  entirely  a  woman  can  fulfil  to  the  utmost  the 
duties  of  wife  and  mother,  without  ever  failing  in  the 


116         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

least  degree  to  be  the  intellectual  and  spiritual  com- 
panion of  her  husband. 

Madame  Buxsen  to  her  Motheb. 

"  15  July,  1817. — I  lay  still,  and  shed  a  very  few  more 
tears,  talking  to  Charles  at  intervals  about  my  Mother,  and 
her  journey,  for  some  time  after  she  left  me.  Then  I  went 
to  sleep,  and  Charles  slept  too,  leaning  against  my  pillow, 

for  he  would  not  leave  me Some  few  times  since,  it 

is  true,  the  tears  have  risen  to  my  eyes,  but  they  have 
been  driven  away ;  for  my  Mother's  parting  words,  though 
I  never  have  trusted  myself  to  think  them  over,  have 
literally  vibrated  in  my  ears,  and  '  lain  like  a  cordial  in 
my  heart,  sending  forth  spirits  to  recruit  my  strength.' 

"  I  never  could  have  believed,  my  own  Mother,  that  I 
could  have  borne  your  departure  so  well,  because  I  could 
not  have  known  thoroughly,  without  this  trial,  how  much 
Charles  was  to  me.  He  sympathises  in  my  feelings  to  the 
exact  degree  that  does  me  good.  It  will  not  do  to  think 
and  recollect  that  my  Mother  has  nothing  to  soothe  her — 
but  her  own  reflections." 

"Irascati,  20  July,  1817,  Monday. — Yesterday  I  read 
with  Charles  most  comfortably  and  satisfactorily.  After 
we  had  finished  the  prayers,  we  read  different  chapters  of 
the  Bible,  comparing  the  German  and  English ;  and  when 
M.  Brandis  came,  an  hour  and  a  half  before  dinner,  to 
read  with  Charles,  I  read  to  myself  in  '  Self -Knowledge.' # 
After  dinner  Charles  and  I  read  a  good  deal  in  Milton  and 
Dante,  then  walked  out,  and  sat  down  in  the  Villa  Belve- 
dere, where  M.  Brandis  joined  us.    We  walked  to  the  top 

•  Mason's  Self-Knowledge,  1786. 


MARRIAGE.  117 


of  that  hill,  where  the  view  was  most  beautiful As 

to  my  spirits — I  never  could  have  realised  that  I  should 
have  borne  the  parting  from  my  Mother  so  well,  for  I  never 
could  have  imagined  in  what  a  degree  Charles  would  cheer 
and  support  me,  how  accurately  he  would  observe  by  my 
face  when  my  thoughts  needed  to  be  diverted,  and  how  well 
he  would  succeed  in  turning  the  current  of  my  ideas.  I 
know  the  effect  of  salutary  occupation,  but  still  I  am  not 
attributing  too  much  to  Charles,  because  I  also  know  that 
fulness  of  employment  avails  little  without  the  sensation  of 
security  of  dependence,  and  animation  of  mind,  such  as  the 
consciousness  of  his  presence  gives. 

"  Since  I  parted  with  my  Mother,  some  lines  of  Dante, 
often  remembered  before,  but  never  before  in  sorrow,  have 
often  occurred  to  me— 

1  Era  gia  l'ora  che  yolge  '1  desio 
Ai  naviganti,  e  inteneriace  il  cuore, 
Lo  di  ch'  han  detto  a'  dolci  amid  addio ; 

E  che  lo  novo  peregrin  d'amore 
Pnngo,  bo  odi  squilla  di  lontano, 
Che  paja  il  giorno  pianger  che  si  xnnore. ' " 

(Purg.  cto.  viii.) 


"  Fratcati,  August  7,  1817. — At  three  o'clock  I  set  off  on 
an  ass  with  the  Guardaroba  and  his  wife  to  see  their  Vigna, 
two  miles  distant,  along  a  beautiful  road.  The  people  were 
very  much  pleased  at  my  going  with  them,  and  talked 
&  Fmvie  to  entertain  me  and  themselves,  and  did  the  honours 
of  their  belongings  with  the  ease  that  we  observe  in  Welsh 
cottagers.  The  Vigna  is  a  beautiful  sheltered  spot,  with  a 
great  many  fruit  trees,  besides  the  vines  and  crop  of  canes, 
and  a  well  in  the  rock,  in  which  they  put  some  of  the  pears 


118        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OP  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

they  had  gathered  for  me  to  rtnfrescare.  I  brought  back  a 
great  many  almonds  and  pears,  and  a  few  peaches.  They 
told  me  their  corn-field  had  yielded  tenfold  this  year.  I 
returned  home  at  six  o'clock,  and  drew  till  it  was  dark,  and 
then  read  to  myself.  Charles  did  not  come  home  till  after 
ten.  He  brought  me  from  Home  Yerstappen's  picture  from 
Thorwaldsen  and  various  stores  and  treasures;  among 
others,  Voss's  translation  of  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey,  and  the 
work  by  Neander  on  the  character  of  Julian,  which  he  had 
borrowed  from  Thorwaldsen,  who,  he  says,  will  come  soon 
and  bring  some  clay  with  him:  he  had  been  working 
extremely  hard  lately,  and  has  made  two  statues  as  large  as 
life  since  he  finished  the  Ballatrice — a  Ganymede,  and  a 
Shepherd  with  his  Dog. 

"Charles  brought  back  M.  Overbeck  with  him  from 
Borne,  who  is  with  us  still,  and  I  hope  we  shall  keep  him 
longer,  for  he  seems  to  enjoy  being  here,  and  he  is  a  very 
agreeable  inmate,  thankful  for  every  attention,  and  con- 
stantly afraid  of  being  troublesome ;  interested  in  conver- 
sation, but  nevertheless  quite  happy  to  employ  himself 
independently  for  many  hours  in  the  day,  either  in  paint- 
ing or  walking  out.  He  brought  his  easel  and  a  beautiful 
little  picture  of  the  Virgin  and  Child,  which  he  is  finishing. 
I  have  a  great  wish  to  attempt  copying  it,  and  yesterday 
morning  while  he  was  out  I  began  and  half  finished  the 
outline,  with  which  he  was  very  much  surprised,  and  told 
me  he  could  not  make  such  clean  and  true  strokes  himself ! 

"I  must  mention  a  letter  which  has  given  me  great 
pleasure,  from  M.  Brandis's  father.*  It  is  everything  I 
could  wish,  and  gives  so  pleasing  an  impression  of  the 
*  Dr.  Brandis,  Physician  to  the  King  of  Denmark. 


MARRIAGE.  119 


-writer  that  it  furnishes  additional  evidence  that  we  may 
trust  to  the  pledge  afforded  by  M.  Brandis's  own  character, 
that  good  must  necessarily  be  annexed  to  his  name  and 
blood.  The  letter  begins  with  an  assurance,  that  he  will 
always  hold  me  in  particular  regard,  as  being  the  first 
person  who  has  given  him  the  pleasure  of  knowing  he  has 
a  daughter-in-law,  and  that  whenever  another  of  his  sons 
brings  him  another,  he  hopes  she  will  have  won  his  son's 
heart  in  an  equally  worthy  manner.  He  says  he  loves 
Charles  as  well  as  his  own  sons,  but  will  not  praise  him, 
because  there  is  no  use  in  that,  as  the  matter  is  concluded, 
— and  will  only  say  that  it  is  not  merely  natural  to  him  to 
seek  after  all  that  is  excellent,  but  that  he  can  only  exist 
in  clinging  to  it.  He  says  that  it  is  difficult  to  refuse  our 
invitation  to  Frascati,  but  that  it  would  be  impossible  to 
him  to  take  such  a  journey :  however  that  he  will  send  one 
of  his  sons,  who  must  put  on  a  wig  to  look  as  like  him  as 
possible, — but  he  promises  me,  if  I  will  come  to  see  him  at 
Copenhagen,  to  take  his  wig  off,  and  represent  his  son. 
He  concludes  by  giving  me  his  blessing." 

"Frascati,  14  August,  1817. — How  intense  is  the  heat! 
I  almost  gasp  for  a  tramontana,  for  even  the  coolness  of 
the  morning  is  only  relief  by  comparison.  However  I 
have  nothing  to  complain  of,  but  the  weakness  occasioned 
by  the  climate.  Charles  is  ever  the  same, — and  if  I 
wanted  reviving — which  I  do  not  in  mind,  though  I  do 
in  body — it  would  be  sufficient  for  that  purpose  to  behold 
a  being  in  such  full  enjoyment  of  existence  —  so  unin- 
terruptedly gay,  busy,  animated — and  to  feel  that  he 
lores  me  every  day  more  and  takes  greater  delight  in 
my  presence,  and  admits  to  himself  that  he  does  so.     He  is 


120         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

very  busy  all  morning,  studying  and  writing ;  and  reads 
Plato  with  Mr.  Brandis  for  the  last  half-hour  before 
dinner.  I  always  sit  drawing,  or  writing,  or  reading1 
in  his  room,  but  we  do  not  interrupt  each  other.  I  have 
nearly  finished  my  copy  of  Overbeck's  Madonna,  and  it 
is  a  great  pleasure  to  think  that  my  Mother  will  some 
time  see  it." 

"19  Sept.,  1817.  —  I  can  truly  assure  my  Mother, 
that  my  mind  settles  daily  to  a  more  full  and  steady  en- 
joyment of  existence.  I  use  that  phrase,  as  implying* 
much  more  to  my  Mother  who  knows  me,  than  if  I  had 
merely  said  I  was  happy — because  it  proves  that  the  com- 
posure of  entire  satisfaction  is  my  habitual  state.  I  feel 
continually  convinced  of  being  more  and  more  beloved, 
and  in  a  manner  that  has  fallen  to  the  lot  of  few  human 
beings,  of  being  prized  for  anything  and  everything  that 
has  a  pretension  to  be  good  in  me, — and  I  have  the  con- 
sciousness of  giving  pleasure  even  by  my  silent  pre- 
sence, and  by  every  word  and  action.  0  my  Mother, 
the  only  risk  is  that  I  should  be  quite  spoiled! — it  is 
too  good  for  any  human  creature  not  to  have  unreawn- 
ableness  to  contend  with,  and  my  occupations  too  are  very 
much  what  I  like,  except  that  I  find,  as  usual,  time  to  do 
but  little  of  what  I  wish  to  do. 

"  I  hope  we  may  perhaps  go  to  Naples  next  summer 
It  is  curious  that  the  danger  as  to  robbers  is  not  near 
Naples,  but  within  the  Papal  frontier,  where  at  present 
nearly  the  whole  population  consists  of  banditti,  very 
savage  in  their  practices,  taking  captives,  and  often  mur- 
dering them,  if  not  ransomed  very  speedily.  Many  of  the 
troops  the  Pope  has  sent  against  them,  or  rather  the  Mon- 


MARRTAGE.  121 


signore  at  the  head  of  the  Pope's  War  Office,  have  deserted 
to  the  robbers :  the  present  state  of  things  therefore  is  so 
nearly  desperate,  that  1  think  there  is  some  ground  for 
hoping  an  amendment, — possibly  the  poor  Pope  may  die  in 
next  Advent's  fast,  and  then  the  Austrians  mav  establish 
tome  government, — if  it  was  only  a  military  rule,  that 
would  be  better  than  no  government." 

"  25  Sept — I  will  here  assure  my  Mother,  that  never 
in  any  way  has  my  privilege  to  employ  myself  as  I  phase, 
without  criticism,  been  infringed:  and  I  can  safely  pro- 
mise her,  that  as  far  as  time  and  strength  allow,  nothing 
shall  be  lost  that  she  has  taken  pleasure  in  seeing  me 

acquire When  Charles  and  I  sit  together,   we 

neither  interrupt  or  constrain  each  other.  The  only 
thing  in  which  my  time  is  ever  spent,  in  exclusive  com- 
pliance with  a  fancy  of  Charles  and  Mr.  Brandis,  is  in 
reading  the  dialogues  of  Plato,  two  or  three  evenings  in 
the  week,  for  an  hour.  I  read  aloud  the  German  trans- 
lation, and  they  look  at  the  Greek  the  while.  For  this 
book  I  confess  1  have  as  yet  acquired  no  taste,  but  it 
is  a  very  fine  practice,  not  only  in  reading  German,  but 
in  fixing  attention:  and  the  representation  is  most 
curious,  not  only  of  the  enlightened  opinions  of  two  indi- 
viduals, Plato  and  Socrates,  but  of  the  total  want  of  all 
fixed  principles  of  belief,  on  the  commonest  points  of  reli- 
gion and  morality,  amongst  the  rest  of  the  Athenians  of 
their  time :  also,  the  talent  with  which  the  dialogues  are 
conducted  is  admirable ;  and  if  the  work  did  not  possess 
so  many  merits,  the  interest  that  Charles  and  Mr.  Brandis 
take  in  helping  me  to  understand  it,  by  giving  explanatory 
particulars  as  to  numberless  points  on  which  I  am  unin- 


122         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

formed,  would  be  reason  sufficient  to  prefer  continuing  to 
read  it. 

"  On  Charles's  birthday,*  my  dearest  Mother,  I  showed 
him  Patrick  f  for  the  first  time,  putting  a  mark  in  the 
prayer  '  On  the  day  of  one's  Birth.'  He  was  very  much 
pleased,  and  the  next  morning  before  breakfast  proposed 
that  we  should  read  a  prayer  together,  which  we  have  done 
many  times  since,  and  we  often  before  breakfast  read  some 
chapters  in  the  Bible.  I  have  constantly  more  satis- 
faction, and  I  feel  that  he  has  also,  in  our  regular  Sunday- 
readings. 

"  We  are  beginning  to  experience  the  inconveniences  of 
a  mere  summer-house.  From  the  smallness  of  the  rooms, 
we  are  either  in  want  of  fresh  air,  or  exposed  to  draughts 
of  wind :  still  we  ought  not  to  complain  of  Casino  Acco- 
rambuoni,  for  it  has  not  let  in  the  rain  upon  us,  that  is  to 
say — only  a  little :  but  I  look  forward  with  pleasure  to 
inhabiting  large  rooms  with  large  windows.  Next  Monday 
Charles  will  go  to  Borne,  and  take  Laura  to  superintend 
cleaning  and  to  take  care  of  furniture  till  we  come  to 
inhabit.  Last  Monday  we  went  to  Monte  Compatri,  setting" 
off  at  eight  o'clock,  and  returning  at  three  to  dinner.  Mr. 
Brandis  and  Mr.  Platner  went  with  us,  and  we  took  a 
basket  with  fruit  and  cold  ham  and  bread.  It  rained  when 
we  reached  Monte  Compatri,  but  we  got  under  shelter,  and 
Mr.  Brandis  read  aloud  part  of  Q&tz  von  Berlichingm :  the 
views  were  most  exquisite,  and  I  enjoy  the  thoughts  of 
going  the  same  road  again  to  Palestrina." 

•  25th  August. 

f  The  Devotional  Works  of  Symon  Patrick,  Bishop  of  Chichester, 
afterwards  of  Ely  (1626—1707). 


MARRIAGE.  123 


"Frascaii,  2  Oct.,  1817. — On  Monday  morning  Charles 
went  to  Rome,  and  in  the  course  of  that  day,  I  packed 
everything.  Mr.  Brandis  came  and  managed  the  carret- 
tieri  for  me,  about  loading  the  luggage,  and  though  their 
delays  caused  him  to  lose  three  hours  of  a  fine  morning, 
he  almost  reproached  me  for  having  given  him  '  nothing 
to  do '  to  help  me,  according  to  his  own  wish  and  Charles's 
charge — but  I  explained  that  had  I  been  ever  so  well 
inclined  to  give  him 'more  trouble  than  could  be  avoided,  I 
could  not  well  have  contrived  to  give  him  either  my  gowns 
and  petticoats,  or  the  sheets  and  tablecloths  to  pack. 
Indeed,  my  own  dearest  Mother,  I  have  so  many  plagues 
8aved  me,  of  all  sorts  and  kinds,  that  it  is  only  almost 
alarming.  I  have  had  a  long  note  from  Charles  each  day 
since  he  went  away,  and  I  have  written  to  him  each  day: 
and  these  four  days  that  I  have  been  alone,  I  have  not 
been  lonely,  for  I  have  been  well  enough  to  be  constantly 
busy,  have  taken  three  sketches;  drawn  some  dogtooth 
violets,  which  are  now  in  full  autumnal  blow ;  copied  some 
Handel;  and  read  Machiavel  and  several  chapters  in 
regular  progress  through  Job  and  Ezekiel.  The  reason 
that  caused  me  to  begin  the  latter,  was  hearing  from 
Charles  a  comment  Mr.  Niebuhr  had  made  on  the  tho- 
roughly Judaic  spirit,  and  narrowness  of  mind  of  Ezekiel, 
as  contrasted  with  Isaiah.  I  think  very  likely  the  obser- 
vation is  just,  but  I  believe  the  reason  I  have  always  felt, 
and  my  Mother  has  always  felt,  so  much  delight  in  reading 
Isaiah,  is  that  in  speaking  of  the  future  Redeemer,  his 
soul  seems  filled  with  his  actual  presence,  and  he  has 
almost  imbibed  beforehand  the  spirit  of  Christianity — he 
is  not  a  mere  passive  medium  for  the  transmission  of  Divine 


124         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OP   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

oracles.  One  of  the  plans  that  Charles  has  made  for  the 
winter,  is  to  read  the  book  of  Job  in  the  Hebrew,  with  a 
countryman  of  his  of  the  name  of  Wolfe,  a  converted  Jew, 
who  is  at  present  in  the  Roman  college,  and  has  made 
great  progress  in  the  Oriental  languages." 

"  6  Oct.,  1817. — Mr.  Charles  Brandis  speaks  with  great 
animation  of  the  effect  that  the  young  Napoleon  produced 
upon  him.  He  said  that  the  child  spoke  to  him,  asking- 
him  different  questions,  where  he  had  been,  where  he  was 
going — '  like  a  little  Prince  ;*  that  he  had  a  marked  cha- 
racter of  countenance  as  well  as  manner,  and  that  his 
features  were  not  like  his  father1 8;  that  he  had  beautiful  flaxen 
hair  in  great  abundance.  The  only  anecdote  he  told  me 
of  him  was  curious.  The  two  young  lions  that  the  Princess 
of  Wales  sent  to  the  Emperor  of  Austria,  were  conveyed  to 
Schonbrunn,  where  the  young  Napoleon  resides,  and  he 
became  very  fond  of  them,  and  quite  familiar  with  them. 
When  the  Emperor  came  to  see  these  lions,  the  child 
thought  some  signs  of  apprehension  were  to  be  perceived 
in  his  countenance ;  he  ran,  and  clasped  one  of  the  lions 
round  the  neck,  exclaiming,  'Now,  grandpapa,  you  may- 
come  near,  he  shan't  touch  you.'  He  can  speak  both  Ger- 
man and  French,  but  sometimes  does  not  choose  to  speak 
the  former.  It  is  most  entertaining  to  hear  that  the  eldest 
son  of  the  Emperor  mimics  the  deportment  of  the  young 
Napoleon,  making  the  clumsiest  imitations  of  gestures, 
that  in  the  other  are  graceful,  because  easy  and  na- 
tural. 

"  Particulars  of  the  death  of  Madame  de  Stael  will  have 
reached  my  Mother  from  other  quarters,  but  I  will  mention 
that  though  she  suffered  terribly  in  body  and  mind  till 


MARRIAGE.  125 


i 

i 


within  a  few  minutes  of  her  death,  she  expired  as  if  falling 
asleep.  She  desired  her  daughter  to  declare  her  marriage 
with  Bocca  as  soon  as  she  was  dead,  but  not  to  mention  it 
before.  Therefore  the  Duchesse  de  Broglie  collected  all 
her  friends  around  her  mother's  coffin,  the  night  before  it 
was  removed  from  Paris,  informed  them  of  the  duty  im- 
posed upon  her,  and  then  fainted.  Madame  de  Stael  has 
left  Bocca  and  her  child  one  third  of  her  property." 

"PdUasto  AttalU,  Rome,  11  Oct.— We  profited  by  the 
cessation  of  rain  on  Tuesday  evening  to  come  home,  and 
liave  ever  since  been  unpacking  and  settling.  I  have  had 
some  trouble,  my  own  Mother,  but  no  plague.  I  was  quite 
surprised  to  find  how  much  was  done,  the  rooms  painted 
all  fresh  and  clean,  carpet  laid  down,  and  a  sufficient1 
number  of  chairs  and  tables  and  other  necessaries,  to  begin 
with.  I  have  never  ceased  to  be  sensible  of  the  freshness' 
and  cleanliness,  and  space,  and  light  and  air  of  these  rooms 
since  I  came  into  them.  I  have  got  my  Mother's  picture : 
sometimes  I  am  hard  enough  not  to  trust  myself  to  look  at 
it !    Oh  it  is  very  like — almost  too  like ! " 

"18  Oct.,  1817.— Charles  is  just  gone  to  Mr.  Niebuhr's, 
who  has  asked  several  of  his  favourites  to  meet  at  his  house 
in  commemoration  of  the  Battle  of  Leipzig — and,  before  I 
go  to  bed,  I  may  treat  myself  in  expressing  to  my  Mother 
the  continually  renewed  thankfulness  I  feel  towards  her  for 
that  all  but  living  image  of  herself,  which  now  occupies 
the  room  I  inhabit,  receives  me  whenever  I  return  to  it, 
and — looks  so  much  as  if  it  were  going  to  speak  to  me— 
that  for  a  minute  together  I  cannot  look  at  it,  but  a 
hundred  glances  in  the  course  of  the  day  I  can  take  without 
doing  any  mischief. 


126         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

"I  have  called  upon  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  since  their 
return  to  Home,  when  they  were  both  very  gracious.  I 
had  only  an  opportunity  of  exchanging  a  few  words  with 
Mr.  Niebuhr,  and  very  much  doubt  whether  I  shall  ever 
get  oh  with  him,  but  my  Mother  will  agree  with  me  that 
'  Ton  pent  tres  bien  attendre,'  and  that  it  is  not  a  matter  to 
make  violent  efforts  in." 

"30  Oct.,  1817. — Yesterday  morning  Charles  and  I 
walked  over  the  Capitol  to  the  Coliseum  directly  after 
breakfast,  and  yesterday  evening  we  took  the  same  walk, 
returning  as  the  Ave-Maria  was  sounding.  I  therefore 
observed  the  equestrian  statue  of  Marcus  Aurelius  in  the 
same  day  receiving  the  first  sunbeams,  and  displaying  its 
fine  outline  in  a  mass  of  darkness  against  the  clear  .sky 
after  the  sun  was  set. 

"  I  would  give  the  world  that  my  words  should  suffi- 
ciently prove  to  my  Mother  how  happy  I  am.  I  feel  myself 
continually  more  beloved,  more  highly  valued,  more  de- 
lighted in, — and  have  an  hourly  consciousness  of  the  truth 
of  an  assurance  Charles  made  to  me  the  other  day  in  these 
words — '  I  feel  what  you  are  in  every  fibre  of  my  heart' " 

"11  2V<w.,  1817. — We  have  removed  to  Palazzo  Caffarelli, 
on  the  Capitol,  and  how  I  wish  I  could  send  my  Mother  a 
sketch  of  the  inside  of  my  room,  but  still  more  that  I 
could  send  the  view  from  the  windows,  which  is  a  never- 
failing  delight,  in  all  changes  of  atmosphere. 

"I  must  give  my  Mother  an  account  of  a  busi- 
ness that  has  occupied  a  good  deal  of  Charles's  time 
latterly,  when  he  was  not  busy  house  arranging.  Mr. 
Brandis  and  he  had  long  talked  of  contriving  some 
manner  in  which  the  Jubilee  of  the  Reformation  should 


MARRIAGE.  127 


not    pass  unmarked   amongst  the    German   Protestants 
collected   at   Borne,   as   it  was    appointed    to   be   cele- 
brated throughout  Protestant  Germany  on  the  2nd  of 
November,  the  day  on  which,  in  1517,  Luther  publicly 
burnt  the  papal  bull  that  had  been  issued  to  condemn  his 
doctrines,  thereby  declaring  for  the  first  time  a  positive 
separation  from  the  Church  of  Rome.  For  this  purpose,  it 
was  to  be  wished  that  a  religious  service  could  be  per- 
formed.   Charles  proposed  to  translate  the  service  of  the 
Church  of  England,  which  was  approved  by  Mr.  Niebuhr, 
and  he  set  to  work,   and  soon    finished.    Wherever  a 
Biblical  phrase  was  to  be  observed,  he  referred  to  Luther's 
translation  of  the  Bible,  and  made  use  of  the  original 
words.    In  this  part  of  the  work  I  helped  him  to  some 
degree,  as  I  could  generally,  though  not  always,  find  the 
place  in  the  English  Bible,  where  a  similar  phrase  was 
employed,  and  then  the  parallel  passage  in  the  German 
Bible  was  easily  found.  When  this  was  done,  Mr.  Niebuhr 
scrupled  having  the  meeting  take  place  in  his  own  house, 
because  he  could  not  exclude  any  individual,  and  there 
might  be  some  who  would  write  a  misrepresentation  of  the 
matter,  or  who  at  any  rate  would  declare  that  he  had  taken 
a  decided  part  in  favour  of  the  English  liturgy,  which  he 
had  rather  not  appear  to  do,  as  the  adoption  of  some 
general  form  of  worship  is  a  matter  of  great  contention  at 
present  in  Germany,  where  nothing  is  yet  established,  but 
every  clergyman  reads  as  much  or  as  little  as  he  pleases : 
but  it  is,  as  I  understand,  the  particular  wish  of  the  King 
of  Prussia,  that  something  as  near  as  possible  to  the 
Ifaglifih  liturgy  should  be  adopted,  because  he  was  so 
struck  with  it  when  in  England.    Mr.  Niebuhr  therefore 


128         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BAKONRSS  BUNSEN. 

expressed  a  wish  that  all  should  assemble  in  our  house, 
which  accordingly  took  place  on  Sunday  the  9th  of  Novem- 
ber, on  account  of  Mr.  Brandis's  having  been  too  ill  to 
move  the  Sunday  before.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  came, 
and  Madame  de  Humboldt*  and  her  daughter,  and  a  great 
many  men,  in  all  nearly  forty  persons.  Charles  and  Mr. 
Brandis  read  the  translation  between  them,  and  their  selec- 
tion did  extremely  well,  for  they  thought  themselves  obliged 
to  omit  some  things,  lest  the  length  of  the  service  should 
frighten  a  set  of  people,  most  of  whom  were  not  accustomed 
to  think  going  to  church  at  all  necessary.  Mrs.  Niebuhr 
was  blooming  and  gracious,  and  asked  us  to  come  the  fol- 
lowing evening.  I  have  reason  to  think  that  all  the  trouble 
I  have  at  different  times  taken  to  talk  to  her  is  not  thrown 
away,  for  in  her  manner  there  is  now  something  so  like 
cordiality,  that  I  feel  as  fir  as  it  goes  she  rather  likes  me, 
and  is  pleased  to  see  me.  Mr.  Niebuhr  gave  me  one  of  his 
bows  and  two  of  his  smiles,  but  nothing  more."  f 

"  25  Nov.,  1817. — Last  Sunday  I  had  the  very  disagree- 
able interruption  of  a  visit  from  Mr.  Niebuhr,  his  wife  and 
child,  the  last  the  most  pleasing  of  my  visitors,  for  he  was 
lively  and  good-humoured.  During  the  whole  time  Mr. 
Niebuhr  was  in  the  house,  he  walked  the  rooms,  with 
Charles  and  two  other  men,  or  stood  with  them  on  the 

•  The  highly-gifted  wife  of  William  Humboldt,  the  great  states- 
man and  philologer, — "la  premiere  intelligence  de  l'Europe,"  as 
Madame  de  Stael  described  him  at  the  time  of  the  Congress  of  Vienna. 

t  It  will  be  seen  how  steadily  the  feeling  of  Madame  Bnnsen  for 
Madame  Niebuhr  strengthened  and  deepened  into  a  true  friendship, 
and  how  differently  she  afterwards  regarded  Niebuhr  himself. 
Madame  Niebuhr  was  his  second  wife,  Margaret  Hensler — "  Gretchen" 
— the  niece  and  adopted  daughter  of  his  first  wife's  sister,  Madame 
Hensler. 


MARRIAGE.  129 


loggia — never  sat  down,  or  came  near  me.  At  last,  at  the 
usual  speaking  time,  when  his  wife  was  fidgetting  away, 
and  lie  was  fidgetting  after  her,  he  supposed  I  was  going 
to  go  into  mourning  for  the  Princess  Charlotte.  I  replied 
with  strong  expression  of  regret  for  her  loss.  He  was 
pleased  to  draw  an  inference  from  my  words  that  I  was  a 
Tory  and  had  no  confidence  for  the  country's  welfare,  but 
in  royalty.  I  denied  the  inference,  as  undauntedly  as  my 
Mother  could  have  wished,  on  a  ground  that  I  knew  he 
could  not  object  to,  that  the  character  of  the  late  King  had 
been  a  circumstance  of  great  value  to  his  subjects,  and  that 
his  granddaughter  being  so  young,  it  had  not  been  for- 
bidden to  hope  that  much  might  be  expected  from  her.'1 

"  19  Feb.,  1818. — I  have  long  omitted  to  tell  what  my 
Mother  will  be  pleased  to  learn,  that  Thorwaldsen  has 
received  an  order  to  execute  the  bassi-relievi  of  the  Entry 
of  Alexander  into  Babylon,  in  marble.  The  order  has  been 
given  by  the  Marchese  Somariva,  a  very  rich  Milanese, 
who  was  a  commissary,  I  believe,  for  the  French  army :  he 
has  a  palace  at  Milan,  another  near  the  lake  of  Como,  and 
another  at  Paris.  Thorwaldsen  is  now  going  to  form  a 
succession  of  designs  from  the  Iliad  and  Odyssey,  for  bassi- 
relievi,  for  the  Crown  Prince  of  Bavaria,  who  when  he 
passed  through  Borne  originally  expressed  a  wish  that 
Thorwaldsen  would  make  designs  from  the  New  Testa- 
ment, for  a  frieze  to  be  placed  along  the  top  of  a  double 
row  of  columns,  to  lead  up  to  the  high-altar  of  a  church' 
that  the  Prince  intends  to  build  at  Munich.  Prom  the 
time  this  was  talked  of,  it  was  observed  that  poor  Thor- 
waldsen was  quite  dispirited  at  the  thoughts  of  it,  his  soul 
did  not  enter  into  the  idea  of  the  design,  and  it  was  an 

VOL.   I.  K 


130         LIFE  AND  LETTERS    OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

additionally  discouraging  circumstance,  that  his  works  were 
to  be  placed  at  a  height  of  twenty  feet  It  is  believed  that 
some  of  Thorwaldsen's  friends  mentioned  this  state  of  his 
mind  to  the  Prince  on  his  return,  and  that  he  has  in  conse- 
quence" changed  the  order, — which  I  think  is  very  fortu- 
nate, for  there  can  be  little  doubt  from  the  two  specimens 
of  Priam  at  the  feet  of  Achillea  and  the  Departure  of  JBriieis, 
that  Thorwaldsen  will  enter  into  the  spirit  of  Homer. 
Thorwaldsen  has  been  very  busy,  and  therefore  very  happy 
lately,  not  in  consequence  of  the  number  of  orders  he  has 
received,  but  because  his  whole  mind  has  been  absorbed  in 
a  statue  of  Hope,  not  quite  finished  yet,  which  I  think  one 
of  his  most  beautiful  works.  I  do  not  know  anything  to 
compare  it  with ;  the  figure  is  standing  still,  and  firm  on 
both  feet,  but  just  ready  to  move :  she  holds  up  her  dra- 
pery with  one  hand,  by  which  means  the  form  of  her  limbs 
is  as  well  to  be  perceived  as  if  she  were  not  completely 
covered ;  the  hair  is  arranged  in  a  manner  that  appears  to 
me  quite  original — a  quantity  of  curls  brought  from  behind 
over  the  forehead,  but  supported  from  falling  over  the  face 
by  a  band  or  diadem,  the  rest  of  the  hair  hanging  in  curls 
in  the  neck.  The  countenance  I  think  most  remarkable : 
Thorwaldsen  said  himself  he  thought  '  the  expression  of 
Hope  ought  to  be  perfect  repose,'  and  such  he  has  made  it, 
but  the  most  animated  repose" 

On  the  2nd  of  April,  1818,  a  letter  from  Bunsen  to 
Mrs.  Waddington  headed  "  Fanny  is  well — Henry  sends 
you  his  love  " — announced  the  birth  of  his  eldest  born. 

"  As  to  godfathers,  I  have  followed  the  idea,  which  I 


MARRIAGE.  131 


always  had  before  I  was  married,  and  therefore  shall  first 
ask  my  own  dear  father,  whose  name  the  child  is  to  have, 
viz.  Henry  or  Heinrich ;  then  he  who  has  received  me,  and 
treated  me,  and  continues  to  love  me  as  a  father,  old  Mr. 
Brandis,  whom  his  son  will  represent  as  I  shall  my  father ; 
and  lastly,  Mr.  Niebuhr,  because  there  is  no  man  living  to 
whom,  besides  the  other  two,  I  have  more  obligation." 

XfAT^AifR  Bun8en  to  her  Mother. 

"18  April,  1818. — 0  my  Mother,  I  need  not  ask  you  to 
bless  God  for  me,  and  pray  to  Him  to  make  me  thankful : 
I  feel  that  I  can  never  be  thankful  enough.  My  treasure 
is  now  asleep  in  his  crib.  .  .  .  Angelina's*  behaviour  has 
been  quite  perfect :  I  could  not  by  any  person  have  been 
served  with  more  intelligence,  activity,  and  unwearied 
good  humour.  My  Mother  will  more  easily  guess,  without 
being  told,  what  the  conduct  of  friends  has  been  towards 
me : — in  what  a  degree  I  feel  the  tie  drawn  closer  between 
myself  and  my  dear  Emily  by  the  unceasing  acts  of  kind- 
ness she  has  performed,  and  all  the  trouble  she  has  taken 
for  me : — how  I  am  bound  for  life  to  Mrs.  Drewe,f  for  the 
tenderness  and  zeal  with  which  she  has  attended  to  me : — 
how  far  dearer  than  ever  Charles  has  become  to  me,  as  I 
feel  that  I  am  also  become  to  him." 

"  22  Aprtl,  1818.— The  day  three  weeks  that  my  child 
vi  as  born,  I  was  out  for  a  long  time.    I  went  first  for  a 

*  The  faithful  Angelina,  frequently  mentioned  in  these  memoirs, 
is  still  living  (1878)  in  the  Palazzo  Caffarelli,  with  a  small  pension 
from  the  Baroness  Bunsen,  and  receiving  much  kindness  from  the 
present  Prussian  ambassador,  as  from  his  predecessors. 

t  Born  Allen  of  Cresselly,  a  very  old  family  friend.    Sed  ch,  iii. 


132         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUN  SEN. 

few  minutes  to  Mrs.  Niebuhr,  who  has  latterly  shown  me 
so  many  attentions,  with  so  much  appearance  of  interest, 
that  I  am  confirmed  in  the  belief  that  as  far  as  she  has  any 
feeling  towards  me,  it  is  a  feeling  of  unmixed  goodwill  and 
complacency.  Then  I  fetched  Emily,  who  went  with  me 
to  the  Villa  Borghese,  which  is  in  the  beauty  of  purple 
blossomed  Judas  trees  and  laburnum.  My  baby  was  with 
me  too  and  slept  the  whole  journey. 

"  On  Thursday  we  went  to  Thorwaldsen's,  and  saw  a  fine 
Mercury  upon  which  he  is  now  working  with  great  delight, 
and  which  keeps  his  spirits  in  some  degree  from  sinking 
under  the  weight  of  the  Crown  Prince's  commission :  tho 
single  specimen  he  has  made  of  that  frieze,  the  three  Mary's 
at  the  tomb,  is  quite  detestable,  and  I  am  Bure  he  looks  at 
it  with  as  little  patience  as  anybody  else — they  are  abso- 
lutely theatrical  figures." 

"  1  July,  1818. — Donna  Christina  Bonaparte  is  married 
to  Count  Fosse — a  Swede,  and  Donna  Anna  to  the  Prince 
Ercolani  of  Bologna.  The  latter  is  said  to  be  a  great 
match :  the  former  displeased  Madame  Mere  and  the  Prin- 
cess Borghese  so  much,  that  they  would  not  be  present 
when  the  contract  was  signed ;  it  was  reported  that  they 
grounded  their  objections  upon  the  circumstance  of  the 
Swede's  being  a  subject  of  a  subject  of  their  family. 

"  The  day  before  yesterday  poor  Fohr*  was  drowned  in 
the  Tiber !  I  cannot  describe  the  shock  which  this  acci- 
dent has  produced,  for  Fohr's  life  was  of  value  to  many. 
.....  He  was  walking  near  the  Ponte  Molle  with  three 

*  Carl  Philip  Fohr,  a  young  painter  of  much  promise.  His  towns- 
men at  Heidelberg  have  done  honour  to  his  memory  by  nammg  a 
beautiful  walk  over  the  hills  "  Fohr's  Weg." 


MARRIAGE.  133 


friends.  One  of  them,  named  Bahrdt,  being  a  good 
swimmer,  resolved  to  cross  an  eddy,  so  well  known  to 
be  dangerous,  that  the  soldiers  stationed  near  the  bridge 
have  orders  to  warn  bathers  not  to  venture  near  it.  Fohr 
knew  but  little  how  to  Bwim,  but  insisted  upon  following 
Bahrdt,  though  urged  by  all  three  to  refrain.  Bahrdt  had 
nearly  reached  the  other  side,  when  he  heard  an  outcry 
from  the  two  who  remained  on  the  bank,  and  turning 
round,  saw  Fohr  struggling  in  the  eddy ;  he  seized  him  by 
the  hair,  but  the  strength  of  the  stream  forced  it  from  his 
grasp — he  then  swam  below  the  place  of  danger,  and  came 
up  again  against  the  current,  in  the  hope  of  catching  him. 
He  was  able  to  reach  Fohr's  hand,  but  life  was  already 
fled,  the  hand  dropped  from  his  grasp,  the  body  sank,  and 
has  not  been  found  again.  Fohr's  poor  dog  had  four  days 
before  been  nearly  drowned  in  the  same  spot,  and  there- 
fore dared  not  venture  after  his  master,  but  ran  howling 
along  the  bank,  and  could  by  no  efforts  be  brought  away, 
till  his  master's  clothes  were  shewn  him,  and  then  he  fol- 
lowed the  clothes  home. 

"  Mr.  Overbeck  is  going  to  be  married  to  Mademoiselle 
Hirtel,  the  daughter  of  an  Austrian  baron,  with  whom 
Wilhelm  Schlegel  was  a  few  years  ago  so  much  in  love,  that 
Jie  wanted  to  have  proposed  to  her,  but  Madame  de  Stael 
would  not  let  him.  I  saw  Mademoiselle  Hirtel  for  the  first 
time  at  Genzano,  where  she  is  settled  for  the  summer,  with 
Madame  Herz,  Frederic  Schlegel,  and  two  German  misses — 
altogether  a  curious  coterie,  which  I  should  be  much  enter- 
tained to  see  more  of,  if  we  could  go  again  to  Genzano. 
Mdlle.  Hirtel  is  a  thorough  gentlewoman,  very  pretty,  with 
a  countenance  full  of  feeling  and  animation,   and  she 


134         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

certainly  can  only  be  induced  to  marry  Overbeck  by  being 
attached  to  him." 

"4  July ^  1818. — Last  night  the  remains  of  poor  Fohr 
were  deposited  near  the  pyramid  of  Caius  Cestius.  The 
night  before  they  had  been  found  by  a  fisherman  a  mile 
below  San  Paolo  fuori  le  Mura.  There  being  no  German 
clergyman  in  Borne,  Charles  translated  and  read  the  burial- 
service  of  the  Church  of  England:  afterwards  he  and 
Mr.  Niebuhr  read  alternately,  at  Mr.  N.'s  suggestion,  a 
fine  funeral  hymn,  contained  in  a  collection  of  ancient 
German  sacred  poetry,  and  intended  to  be  sung  by  two 
choirs  responsively.  In  conclusion,  Charles  spoke  a  few 
sentences  relative  to  the  character  of  the  deceased  and  the 
feelings  of  survivors.  I  wish  I  could  give  my  Mother  an 
idea  of  how  well  this  ever-difficult  duty  was  performed. 
....  A  great  number  of  people  formed  a  circle  round 
ihe  grave — the  friends  and  associates  of  Fohr,  the  people 
who  carried  torches  and  had  conveyed  the  coffin,  and  the 
guard  which  is  always  stationed  at  the  Protestant  burying- 
place.  The  Italians  all  stood  in  perfect  stillness  and  fixed 
attention :  it  was  a  dark,  but  gloriously  starlight  night, 
and  the  flashes  of  lightning  without  cloud  or  storm  were 
frequent." 

"  8  July,  1 81 8. — My  dear  Emily  has  been  here.  She  had 
just  received  my  Mother's  letter  containing  a  summons  to 
England.  I  cannot  describe  the  spring  that  gave  me— the 
unmixed  pleasure.  I  could  not  feel  disappointed  it  was 
not  myself  that  was  summoned,  having  such  a  fixed  con- 
viction of  the  impossibility  of  moving;  and  the  loss  to 
myself  of  Emily's  presence  did  not  ooqur  to  me  as  matter  of 
regret,  nor  does  it  yet, — though  I  shall  miss  her  dear  face. 


MARRIAGE.  135 


"  The  other  night,  when  we  were  looking  at  the  view  in 
the  light  of  the  full  moon,  Charles  longed  for  my  Mother's 
presence— a  summer  night  is  the  time  when  he  wishes  for 
her.  The  time  when  I  wish  fojr  her  most  of  all  is  when  I 
look  at  my  child:  I  cannot  write  anything  to  give  an 
image  of  him,  and  I  cannot  draw  him  to  my  satisfaction." 

"  1  Sept.,  1818. — Charles  will  look  for  a  lodging  at 
Genzano,  that  we  may  go  into  the  country  when  Emily 
goes  away.  My  Mother  will  he  glad  to  hear  that  we  are 
to  hare  dear  Mr.  Brandis  in  the  house  with  us.  Charles 
has  legged  him  of  Mr.  Niebuhr  on  the  plea  that  in  the  pre- 
sent low  state  of  his  spirits,  he  ought  not  to  spend  so  many 
hours  alone  as  he  was  accustomed  to  do  in  Mr.  Niebuhr's 
house,  and  that  he  has  long  formed  habits  of  Hying  day 
after  day  and  hour  after  hour  with  Charles,  as  a  brother." 

"4  Sept.,  1818. — I  trust  my  Mother  will  have  made 
out  from  my  late  letters  in  what  perfect  comfort  and  enjoy- 
ment I  hare  passed  this  summer,  haying  had  health  and 
strength  enough  to  pass  my  time  as  I  liked,  and  being  free 
from  interruptions.  I  shall  take  care  not  to  forget  that 
some  trouble  must  be  taken  for  society,  but  that  society 
must  be  good  indeed,  which  I  could  feel  to  be  otherwise 
than  an  intrusion.  There  is  no  conversation  from  which  I 
receive  so  many  ideas,  no  mind  that  communicates  to  mine 
such  an  impulse,  as  that  of  my  dear  Charles :  and  I  have 
the  blessing  of  feeling  that  I  am  constantly  more  and  more 
prized  by  him,  and  that  he  is  more  happy  in  my  presence. 
I  am  also  indescribably  thankful  to  be  conscious  how  much 
closer  the  bond  has  been  drawn  between  me  and  my  dear 
Emily  in  these  fourteen  months  that  we  have  spent  as  it 
were  together,  since  my  Mother  left  us.    I  feel  her  affec- 


136         LIFE  AND  LETTEBS  OF  BARONESS  BUXSEK. 

tion  towards  me  as  much  increased  as  mine  towards  her, 
and  I  have  received  from  her  little  kindnesses  and  little 
services  innumerable." 

■ 

After  Madame  Bunsen  parted  with  her  sister  at 
Rome,  they  never  met  again.  Mrs.  Manley,  whilst 
she  had  pleased  her  husband  by  making  his  house 
agreeable  to  his  numerous  Italian  friends,  had  been 
exerting  herself  beyond  her  feeble  powers.  Though 
her  affection  for  him  was  unaltered,  she  could  not 
evade  an  inner  consciousness  which  she  never  allowed 
to  appear  till  she  lay  upon  her  death-bed,  that  her 
marriage  had  been  a  mistake.  Her  early  life  had  been 
devoted  to  strong  religious  impressions  of  that  class 
which  are  none  the  less  real  because  they  frequently 
raise  external  trifles  to  the  rank  of  spiritual  duties; 
and,  though  her  husband  never  interfered  with  her 
conduct  on  subjects  of  faith,  or  attempted  to  in- 
fluence her  belief,  she  felt  ere  long  that  the  fact  of  his 
being  a  Roman  Catholic,  and  evading  all  subjects  con- 
nected with  religion,  created  a  barrier  between  them 
on  the  matters  nearest  her  heart.  She  had  long  dis- 
covered also  that  his  fortune  was  far  from  being  that 
which  it  had  been  represented  to  be  before  her  marriage 
was  allowed  by  her  parents,  which  she  suffered  from 
chiefly  because  she  dreaded  the  effect  of  the  disclosure 
upon  their  minds.  When  the  hour  of  departure  for 
England  was  fixed,  she  concealed  from  her  sister  that 
she  knew  she  was  returning  to  her  own  country  to  die. 


MARRIAGE.  137 


The  fatigues  of  the  journey  increased  her  malady,  and 
when  her  mother  welcomed  her  at  th6  door  of  Llanover, 
it  was  to  hear  her  conviction  that  she  was  dying  fast, 
but  that  God  had  heard  her  prayer,  not  to  be  parted 
from  her  mother  and  family  during  her  last  days. 
She  expressed  herself  as  being  joyful  in  spirit  for 
almost  the  first  time  for  the  last  two  years — "in 
which  she  had  lived  as  under  a  mask."  She  wished 
only  that  two  requests  might  be  granted — one,  that 
her  husband  might  not  be  informed  of  the  certainty 
of  her  approaching  death,  but  that  he  might  con- 
tinue to  indulge  his  present  hopes  of  her  recovery; 
the  other,  that  in  the  prayers  offered  in  her  presence,  not 
a  word  of  petition  for  recovery  might  be  uttered,  as  she 
had  not  strength  to  endure  so  terrible  a  thought.  From 
this  time  she  lay  tranquil  and  resigned,  but  could  sel- 
dom speak :  all  symptoms  showed  the  entire  break-up 
of  nature,  although  she  had  still  strength  to  endure 
much  pain,  and  for  a  longer  time  than  the  physician 
had  deemed  possible.  "  I  pray  for  the  happiness  of  my 
husband,"  she  said ;  "  he  loves  me,  and  has  ever  cared 
for  me  to  the  utmost  of  his  power ;  but  that  is  now 
past ;  all  ties  are  broken,  except  that  which  binds  me 
to  my  Mother,  by  whom  I  was  taught  the  knowledge 
of  God."*  Mrs.  Manley  died  on  the  12th  April, 
1819.  There  are  few  cases  in  which  one  may  ven- 
ture to  say  as  positively  as  in  this,  that  according  to 
human  wisdom  and  perception  there  was  no  other  way 

*  Letter  of  Bunsen  to  his  sister  Christiana. 


138        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

but  by  the  release  of  nature,  for  escaping  from  a  really 
tragical  combinatibn  of  circumstances,  not  one  of  which 
could  have  been  thought  of  without  despair.*  Mean- 
time life  continued  to  glide  happily  by  with  the  Bunsens 
at  Home — their  only  clouds  arising  from  this  sorrow, 
and  from  their  separation  from  Brandis,  who  left 
Rome  so  ill,  and  at  the  same  time  "so  heavenly- 
minded  in  benevolence,  inward  peace  and  clearness,  and 
so  convinced  of  the  near  approach  of  his  end,"  that  his 
friends,  when  they  parted,  could  not  but  fear  they  had 
seen  him  for  the  last  time,  though  he  lived  to  a  good 
old  age.f  Long,  and  affectionately  remembered  were 
the  last  afternoons  passed  by  the  Bunsens  with  this 
brother-like  friend,  chiefly  in  the  turfy  avenues  with 
their  glorious  mountain-views,  which  extend  from  the 
steps  of  St.  John  Lateran  to  the  old  basilica  of  Santa 
Croce. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"16  March,  1819.— Mr.  Hinds  and  Mr.  Thirlwall  are 

here My  Mother,  I  know,  has  sometimes  suspected 

that  a  man's  abilities  are  to  be  judged  of  in  an  inverse  ratio 
to  his  Cambridge  honours, — but  I  believe  that  rule  is 
really  not  without  exception,  for  Mr.  Thirlwall  J  is  cer- 

*  See  Letter  of  Bunsen  to  Mrs.  "WaddLngton,  in  the  Memoirs  of 
Baron  Bunsen. 

f  Professor  Brandis  outlived  Bunsen  himself.  He  died  at  Bonn,  where 
he  filled  the  chair  of  Professor  of  Moral  Philosophy,  in  July,  1867. 

X  Connop  Thirlwall,  afterwards  Historian  of  Greece  and  Bishop  of 
St.  David's,  died  1875. 


MARRIAGE.  139 


tainly  no  dunce,  although,  as  I  have  been  informed,  he 
attained  high  honours  at  Cambridge  at  an  earlier  age  than 
anybody,  except,  I  believe,  Porson.  In  the  course  of  their 
first  interview,  Charles  heard  enough  from  him  to  induce 
him  to  believe  that  Mr.  Thirlwall  had  studied  Greek  and 
Hebrew  in  good  earnest,  not  merely  for  priua  ;  also,  that 
he  had  read  Mr.  Niebuhr's  Boman  History  proved  him  to 
possess  no  trifling  knowledge  of  German,*  and  as  he  ex- 
pressed a  wish  to  improve  himself  in  the  language,  Charles 
ventured  to  invite  him  to  come  to  us  on  a  Tuesday  even- 
ing, whenever  he  was  not  otherwise  engaged,  seeing  that 
many  Germans  were  in  the  habit  of  calling  on  that  day, 
and  making  the  necessary  explanations,  that  a  regular 
assembly  was  not  to  be  expected,  for  that  I  was  unable  to 
send  formal  invitations,  on  account  of  being  so  frequently 
laid  up :  and  Mr.  Thirlwall  has  never  missed  any  Tuesday 
evening  since,  except  the  moccoli  night,  and  one  other  when 
it  rained  dogs  and  cats.  He  comes  at  eight  o'clock,  and 
never  stirs  to  go  uway  till  everybody  else  has  wished  good- 
night, often  at  almost  twelve  o'clock.  It  is  impossible  for 
any  one  to  behave  more  like  a  man  of  sense  and  a  gentle- 
man, than  he  has  always  done, — ready  and  eager  to  con- 
verse with  anybody  that  is  at  leisure  to  speak  to  him,  but 
never  looking  fidgety  when  by  necessity  left  to  himself; 
always  seeming  animated  and  attentive,  whether  listening 
to  music,  or  trying  to  make  out  what  people  say  in  Ger- 
man, or  looking  at  one  of  Gothe's  songs  in  the  book, 
while  it  is  sung ;  and  so  there  are  a  great  many  reasons 
for  our  being  very  much  pleased  with  Mr.  Thirlwall,  yet  I 

*  Seven  years  after  this,  Thirlwall  joined  his  friend  Julius  Hare  in 
translation  of  Niebuhr's  History  of  Borne. 


140         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BTJNSEX. 

rather  suspect  him  of  being  very  cold,  and  very  diy — and 
although  he  seeks,  and  seeks  with  general  success,  to 
understand  everything,  and  in  every  possible  way  increase 
his  stock  of  ideas,  I  doubt  the  possibility  of  his  under- 
standing anything  that  is  to  be  felt  rather  than  explained, 
and  that  cannot  be  reduced  to  a  system.  I  was  led  to  this 
result  by  some  most  extraordinary  questions  that  he  asked 
Charles  about  Faust  (which  he  had  borrowed  of  us,  and 
which  he  greatly  admired  nevertheless,  attempting'  a 
translation  of  one  of  my  favourite  passages,  which  how- 
ever I  had  not  pointed  out  to  him  as  being  such), — and 
also  by  his  great  fondness  for  the  poems  of  Wordsworth, 
two  volumes  of  which  he  insisted  upon  lending  Charles, 
containing  stuff,  to  my  perceptions,  yet  more  contemptible 
than  the  contents  of  that  enormous  quarto  (the  eighth 
section  of  the  second  part  of  an  intended  poem,  I  believe) 
which  my  Mother  and  I  once  attempted  to  read.  These 
books  he  accompanied  with  a  note,  in  which  he  laid  great 
stress  upon  the  necessity  of  reading  the  author's  prose 
essays  on  his  own  poems,  in  order  to  be  enabled  to  relish  the 
latter.  Yet  Mr.  Thirlwall  speaks  of  Dante  in  a  manner 
that  would  seem  to  prove  a  thorough  taste  for  his  poetry, 
as  well  as  that  he  has  really  and  truly  studied  it ;  for  he 
said  to  me  that  he  thought  no  person  who  had  taken  the 
trouble  to  understand  the  whole  of  the  '  Divina  Commedia  ' 
would  doubt  about  preferring  the  Faradiso  to  the  two 
preceding  parts;  an  opinion  in  which  I  thoroughly 
agree — but  nobody  can  understand  it,  without  having 
obtained  a  knowledge  of  the  history  of  the  times,  and 
the  systems  of  theology  and  philosophy  (which  were 
present  to  the  mind  of  Dante)  by  means  of  studying  the 


MARRIAGE.  141 


commentators,  or  being  assisted,  as  I  was,  by  the  studies 
of  others. 

"As  Mr.  Thirlwall  can  speak  French  sufficiently  well  to 
make  himself  understood,  and  as  he  has  something  to  say, 
Charles  found  it  very  practicable  to  make  him  and  Pro- 
fessor Bekker  acquainted — though  Professor  Better  has 
usually  the  great  defect  of  never  speaking  but  when  he  is 
prompted  by  his  own  inclination,  and  of  never  being  in- 
dined  to  speak  except  to  persons  whom  he  has  long  known, 
that  is,  to  whose  faces  and  manners  he  has  become  accus- 
tomed, and  whose  understanding  or  character  he  respects 
or  likes*  ....  In  conclusion,  I  must  say  about  Mr. 
Thirlwall,  that  I  was  prepossessed  in  his  favour  by  his 
having  made  up  in  a  marked  manner  to  Charles,  rather 
than  to  myself.  I  had  no  difficulty  in  getting  on  with  him, 
tut  I  had  all  the  advances  to  make :  and  I  can  never  think 
the  worse  of  a  young  man,  just  fresh  from  college,  and 
unused  to  the  society  of  women,  for  not  being  at  his  ease 
with  them  at  first.11 

"  22  June,  181 9. — All  that  my  Augusta  tells  me  of  Calwich 
has  given  me  a  great  deal  of  pleasure.  It  reminds  me  of 
the  time  when  I  was  there  at  twelve  years  old,  when  my 
Augusta  was  only  a  month  older  than  my  Henry  is  now, 
when  the  weather,  the  flower-garden,  the  water,  the  ver- 
dure, were  all  bright  and  beautiful,  and  when  I  very  much 
enjoyed  myself. 

*  Niebuhr  said  of  the  extraordinary  linguist  and  philologist 
Bekker  that  he  was  "  silent  in  seven  languages  "  (schweigt  in  sieben 
Bprachen).  In  a  letter  from  Berlin  of  September,  1857,  Bunsen 
speaks  of  Professor  Bekker' a  peculiarities  as  still  the  same — "  Madame 
Grimm  told  me  that  she  had  made  Bekker  not  only  speak,  but  laugh." 
Bekker  once  said — "  This  is  the  first  time  I  have  spoken  these  three 
year*.' 


142         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


"  How  I  thank  my  Mother  for  her  gifts  to  Mrs.  Niebuhr, 
whose  behaviour  to  me  has  indeed  been  all  that  I  could 
wish,  invariably — and  it  is  difficult  for  me  to  find  any 
means  of  making  a  return  of  any  sort,  except  having  made 
her  some  tninced-pie  meat  at  Christmas,  and  a  candle-screen 
in  the  autumn,  which  last  has  proved  very  useful,  on 
account  of  the  state  her  eyes  have  been  in  for  some 

time I  must  not   say  anything,  and  indeed  I 

hardly  wish  to  do  so,  about  my  Mother's  extravagance, 
because  I  know  it  ploases  her  to  be  extravagant  for  my 
sake. 

"  A  few  evenings  ago  I  walked  with  Charles  over  Ponte 
Sisto  to  Palazzo  Corsini,  for  the  purpose  of  seeing  the 
gallery.  The  custode  was  not  at  home,  so  we  went  on  to 
Santa  Maria  in  Trastevere,  to  look  at  some  ancient  mosaics, 
and  returned  to  the  Corsini  garden,  where  I  have  so  often 
been  with  my  Mother.  After  sitting  down  a  little  while, 
we  set  off  home,  but  by  way  of  Piazza  Sciarra  in  the  Corso, 
to  eat  ices.  When  we  had  ascended  our  own  dear  hill,  we 
found  the  sweetest  boy  in  the  world,  greeting  us  with  such 
joy — well-pleased  to  be  taken  in  my  arms,  and  afterwards 
upon  his  father's  back,  and  very  soon  equally  well-pleased 
to  be  undressed  and  go  to  bed,  it  being  Ave  Maria,  the 
usual  time  for  dropping  asleep.  The  Campo  Vaccino  is 
the  place  for  my  Henry  when  he  is  out.  There  he 
trots  and  stops,  and  looks  at  the  oxen  lying  by  the  side 
of  the  carts,  and  the  flocks  of  sheep  and  goats,  and  the 


asses." 


"  28  June,  1819. — In  the  course  of  last  week  a  Lutheran 
clergyman  arrived,  as  chaplain  to  the  Prussian  Embassy,  in 
consequence  of  Mr.  Niebuhr*  s  representations  to  the  King 


MARRIAGE.  143 


of  Prussia  of  the  great  need  in  which  the  numerous  colony 
of  German  Protestants  at  Borne  stood  of  having  a  person 
among  them  whose  office  it  should  be  to  keep  alive  a  sense 
of  religion,  and  counteract  the  influence  of  Catholic  priests, 
by  which  so  many  conversions  have  been  effected:  and 
service  was  for  the  first  time  performed  yesterday  at  Mr. 
Riebuhr's,  to  a  congregation  of  seventy  persons,  which 
was  more  than  was  expected  could  have  been  so  soon  col- 
lected, as  many  people  are  gone  into  different  parts  of  the 
country  for  the  summer.  1  have  seldom  in  my  life  been 
so  deeply  struck  by  a  sermon  as  by  that  which  the  chap- 
lain delivered,  and  I  wish  I  had  space  to  give  such  an 
account  of  his  selection  of  matter,  and  of  his  manner  of 
treating  it,  as  might  enable  my  Mother  to  form  an  idea  of 
the  strength  of  understanding,  the  justness  of  feeling,  and 
the  knowledge  of  the  doctrines  and  spirit  of  Christianity 
which  he  proved  himself  to  possess ; — she  would  rejoice  for 
me  and  for  Charles  in  the  first  place,  and  for  a  number  of 
unknown  creatures  in  the  next,  that  such  an  individual 
should  have  been  induced  to  come  here.  The  service  con- 
sisted of  prayers  and  hymns,  and  two  chapters  from  the 
New  Testament,  one  of  which,  containing  the  parable  of 
the  Prodigal  Son,  was  explained  and  commented  upon  in 
the  sermon.  It  has  always  been  allowed  to  the  clergymen 
in  Germany  to  make  what  selections  they  pleased  from  a 
vast  quantity  of  materials  for  forming  a  Liturgy — a  liberty 
which  has  been  to  a  fatal  degree  abused,  but  which  in  the 
present  instance  was  used  in  the  most  admirable  manner. 
The  prayers  were  those  of  Luther,  with  some  additions  to 
suit  the  circumstances  of  the  congregation.  The  hymns 
were  all  belonging  to  the  period  of  the  Reformation,  both 


144         LIFE   AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

words  and  music,  and  one  was  composed  by  Luther  him- 
self." 

"  15  July,  1819. — It  is  a  very  pretty  sight  when  Henry 
ij  with  the  little  Niebuhr's,  they  have  such  delight  in 
seeing  each  other,  and  the  little  Amelia  and  my  Henry  are 
so  animated  and  Marcus  so  quiet,  in  the  manner  of  show- 
ing satisfaction.  Marcus  smiles  at  Henry,  puts  his  hands 
gently  on  his  shoulders,  and  kisses  him  on  the  cheek,  as 
he  has  been  taught  to  do  to  his  little  sister.  The  little 
girl  is  engaging,  but  not  pretty,  but  Marcus  has  a  really 
beautiful  head,  and  an  expression  of  deep  thought  and 
fixed  attention  that  is  still  more  striking  and  uncommon 
than  his  features. 

"The  great  heat  of  the  weather  has  so  much  weakened 
me  latterly,  that  for  a  fortnight  I  have  not  been  out  of  the 
house,  except  on  a  Sunday  to  attend  the  service  which  is 
regularly  performed  at  Mr.  Niebuhr's,  and  one  glorious 
night  when  I  drove  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  to  the 
Coliseum. 

"It  is  my  most  particular  advice  to  A.  not  to  allow  the 
young  Baron  de  Hiigel  to  come  to  Italy,  as  he  is  only  just 
come  from  Eton, — he  had  much  better  be  sent  to  Oxford, 
and  perhaps  after  eight  or  ten  years,  when  he  has  learnt  a 
great  deal  at  home,  and  has  become  well  fixed  in  English 
habits  and  tastes,  he  may  travel,  without  the  certainty  of 
being  contaminated  by  all  the  evil  of  the  Continent,  and 
confirmed  in  all  that  he  brought  with  him  from  England. 
It  is  not  that  I  mean  to  say  there  is  nothing  to  be  learnt  in 
Italy :  on  the  contrary,  the  longer  I  remain,  the  more  I 
am  aware  of  the  abundance  of  ideas  that  may  be  acquired, 
and  the  depths  of  knowledge  that  may  be  penetrated  here, 


MARRIAGE.  145 


—but  with  no  good  can  anybody  come  in  contact,  but  by 
acrutiny  into  the  past,  of  which  boys  of  eighteen  have  no 
notion, — they  see  nothing  in  Italy  but  the  paltry  frippery 
of  its  present  state,  and  generally  confound  in  their  feel- 
ings the  noble  relics  of  its  ancient  and  modern  greatness, 
with  the  antique  Immondezzaji  through  which  it  is  necessary 
to  wade  in  order  to  get  at  them. 

"Amongst  the  many  subjects  on  which  I  wish  to  com- 
ment to  my  Mother,  Schmieder  (the  chaplain)  is  one 
of  the  principal.  I  am  so  sure  of  the  pleasure  she  would 
have  in  hearing  of  a  character  of  so  high  and  rare  a 
description,  as  his  more  and  more  appears  to  me,  the  more 
it  is  unfolded.  He  has  now  been  here  four  weeks,  I  have 
seen  a  great  deal  of  him,  and  Charles  still  more— but  I 
have  seen  nothing  that  disturbs  or  alters  the  first  impres- 
sion."* 

On  the  13th  of  August  Mrs.  *  Waddington  was  in- 
formed  of  the  birth  of  her  second  grandson,  called 
Ernest  Christian  Louis,  the  first  name  being  after  his 
father's  boy-friend,  the  poet  Ernst  Schulze,  of  whose 
death  he  had  heard  in  the  first  weeks  of  his  married 
life. 

Madame  Buksen  to  her  Mother. 

"21  Sept.,  1819.— If  I  could  but  describe  how  daily 
more  and  more  engaging  my  Ernest  becomes! — what  a 
pair  of  blue  eyes  he  opens !    His  hair  is  dark,  but  light 

•  Dr.  Schmieder  still  lives  (1878)— the  venerable  Provost  of  the 
Preacher's  Seminary  at  Wittenberg,  a  place  of  residence  and  tuition 
for  a  limited  number  of  candidates  for  holy  orders. 

VOL.  I.  L 


146        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BT7NSEN. 

hair  is  reckoned  such  a  beauty,  that  the  nurses,  in  short 
every  Italian  who  has  seen  him,  has  endeavoured  to  con- 
sole me  with  the  assurance  that  he  will  be  '  biondo  come 
il  fratello ' — which  amuses  me  very  much,  because  I  have 
no  doubt  they  know  as  well  as  myself  that  hair  is  much 
more  apt  to  become  darker  than  lighter. 

"  On  Sunday  the  1 9th  September,  my  Ernest  was  chris- 
tened at  Mr.  Niebuhr's,  after  the  service — in  consequence 
of  Dr.  Schmieder's  having  expressed  a  wish  that  the  chris- 
tening should  take  place  in  the  place  of  publio  worship, 
rather  than  at  home ; — as  he  considered  it  more  consonant 
to  the  design  of  baptism  that  it  should  be  performed  so  far 
publicly,  as  that  the  congregation  should  be  enabled  to 
witness  it  if  they  chose,  and  thereby  have  an  additional 
chance  of  being  reminded  of  their  own  obligations.  The 
prayers  he  read  were  those  of  Luther,  composing  alto- 
gether a  service  not  quite  so  long  as  ours,  but  in  every 
respect  similar.  I  was  thankful  again  to  be  able  to  attend 
the  service,  and  to  hear  Dr.  Schmieder  preach.  During 
the  long  interval  in  which  I  have  not  stirred  from  home, 
Charles  has  given  me  every  Sunday  a  detailed  account  of 
the  sermon,  which  always  contains  an  explanation  of  the 
Epistle  or  Gospel  for  the  day,  but  every  time  I  miss  hear- 
ing one  of  his  sermons,  I  feel  I  have  missed  an  opportunity 
of  real  advantage.  It  is  known  to  Dr.  Schmieder's  friends 
that  he  writes  down  in  the  course  of  the  week,  sometimes 
in  two  or  three  different  ways,  his  thoughts  on  the  subject 
on  which  he  intends  to  preach,  but  he  preaches  extempore, 
without  any  reference  to  notes,  which  certainly  gives  great 
additional  effect  to  the  words  he  utters.  Every  Wednes- 
day evening,  he  gives  explanations  of  Isaiah,  and  reads 


MARRIAGE.  147 


prayers,  to  any  persons,  few  or  many,  that  choose  to 
attend." 

"8iV(w.,  1819. — I  must  tell  my  Mother  the  usual  em- 
ployments of  our  evenings.  On  Sunday  we  read  in  the 
Bible,  with  Dr.  Sehmieder,  of  whose  soundness  of  belief, 
and  rectitude  of  feeling,  I  am  the  more  convinced,  the 
more  I  hear  of  his  explanations  and  comments.  The  other 
persons  present  include  three  painters.  One  my  Mother 
will  find  in  the  catalogue  as  Giulio  Schnorr  d%  Carohfeld. 
It  is  difficult  to  make  an  intelligible  description  of  Schnorr, 
and  to  depict  his  power  of  making  such  keen,  dry,  pene- 
trating observations  on  character,  that  had  circumstances 
destined  him  for  a  fine  man  of  the  world,  he  would  have 
been  a  consummate  persijleur.  The  names  of  Olivier  and 
Bhebenih  my  Mother  will  also  find  in  the  catalogue. 

"  On  Wednesday  evenings,  at  the  Ave  Maria,  we  go  to 
a  room  at  Mr.  Niebuhr's  where  the  congregation  assemble, 
to  which  Sehmieder  has  lately  begun  to  give  explanations 
of  the  articles  of  the  confession  of  Augsburg.  On  Thurs- 
day evening  we  generally  go  to  Mr.  Niebuhr's,  and  I  am 
always  glad  when  I  am  not  prevented  from  going  by  any 
accidental  circumstance,  for  Mr.  Niebuhr  has  been  for  a 
long  time  in  a  sufficiently  good  state  of  health  to  be  in- 
finitely animated  and  conversible,  and  when  that  is  the 
case,  I  can  imagine  no  greater  intellectual  gratification  than 
to  hear  him  talk,  let  the  subject  be  what  it  may.  I  have 
heard  him  converse  on  many  subjects,  but  he  has  such  a 
power  of  diversifying  everythingby  the  originality  of  his  con- 
ceptions, and  the  liveliness  of  his  imagination,  that  I  should 
think  it  impossible  for  the  most  ignorant  listener  to  con- 
sider any  topic  dry  upon  which  he  touched.    On  Monday 


148    LIFE  AKD  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUK8EN. 

evening  we  hope  soon  to  contrive  at  least  once  a  fortnight 
to  enjoy  again  a  treat  which  we  had  once  a  week  five  weeks 
last  summer — of  hearing  some  of  the  Motetts  of  Palestrina 
executed  in  the  right  manner,  without  instruments,  at 
home.  We  had  long  tried  to  get  together  some  dilettanti 
acquaintances,  who  knew  how  to  sing  other  music,  to 
execute  them,  with  the  help  of  a  simple  accompaniment; 
but  at  length  finding  that  no  dependence  could  be  placed 
on  dilettanti,  we  committed  the  extravagance  of  calling  in 
professional  aid — and  yet  no  great  extravagance,  for  to 
our  one  singer  from  the  Papal  chapel  we  gave  6  pauls  a 
night — or  2«.  9d.  sterling,  for  singing  in  six  pieces :  our 
contralto,  the  Maestro  Giovannini,  was  satisfied  with  an 
occasional  regalo,  of  a  few  pounds  of  chocolate,  or  bottles 
of  wine :  our  tenor  was  a  Dane,  named  Bai,  late  Consul  at 
Algiers,  with  a  most  exquisite  voice,  and  great  knowledge 
of  music :  and  for  the  bass  we  were  rich  enough  in  Sardi, 
but  sometimes  Maldura  came  also.  Bai,  alas,  has  now 
left  Borne,  therefore  we  shall  have  the  tenor  to  seek  and 
to  pay  whenever  we  get  our  musicians  together  again— 
for  which  reason  we  mean  to  be  economical,  and  not  have 
the  indulgence  every  week.  Charles  has  often  given 
utterance  to  the  wish  that  my  Mother  could  be  present, 
when  we  have  been  listening  to  these  Motetts.  I  am  sure 
if  anything  on  earth  can  give  an  idea  of  the  angelic  choir, 
it  must  be  the  music  of  Palestrina!  and  yet  I  do  not 
forget  the  glorious  effect  of  Handel — but  all  music  to 
which  instruments  contribute,  must  be  a  degree  more 
earthly,  than  that  in  which  human  voices  are  alone  to 
themselves  sufficient,  where  nothing  mechanical  is  needed. 
11 1  have  never  been  able  to  tell  that  my  Henry  can  now 


MARRIAGE.  149 


pronounce  nonna*  most  distinctly.  He  now  asks  of  his 
own  accord  to  kiss  my  Mother's  picture  and  he  never  sees 
any  of  his  new  clothes  or  shoes  without  saying  ' nonna'  and 
generally  '  grazie '  afterwards.  To-day,  I  gave  him  a  bit 
of  pear,  and  after  he  had  bowed  his  dear  head,  waved  his 
hand,  and  said  '  grazie '  to  me,  he  said  '  nonna '  and 
4  grazie ' — you  may  be  sure  without  being  bidden,  so  fixed 
is  his  association  between  nonna  and  things  that  please  him. 

"  Thank  you,  my  Mother,  a  thousand,  thousand  times, 
for  your  letter  to  Charles.  I  cannot  express  the  joy  it  is 
to  me,  or  rather,  the  foundation  of  happiness,  to  perceive 
that  you  believe,  what  I  have  long  been  aware  of,  that  it 
is  impossible  you  and  Charles  should  differ  in  opinion,  if 
only  opportunity  is  given  to  make  known  the  grounds  of 
your  respective  decisions. 

"  In  one  of  my  Mother's  letters  to  me  some  time  ago, 
she  expresses  her  belief  that  the  image  of  my  departed 
sister  would  present  itself  with  peculiar  distinctness,  and 
with  a  saddening  effect,  when  my  child  was  born — that  I 
should  then  more  strongly  recall  the  idea  of  her  care  of 
myself,  her  love  for  my  first  child,  and  most  truly  so  it 
was — but  yet  I  was  not  saddened,  for  there  is  no  moment 
of  her  life,  the  recollection  of  which  can  possibly  excite  a 
wish  to  recall  her — not  even  those  moments  of  comparative 
enjoyment  in  which  she  held  my  Henry  in  her  arms. 
Alas !  he  cannot  recollect  her,  but  her  love  to  him,  if  I  can 
help  it,  shall  not  have  been  thrown  away." 

"  5  Jan.,  1 820. — Alas,  my  Mother,  this  Christmas  and  New 
Tear  will  have  been  saddened  to  you  by  many  a  vision  of 
sorrow! — to  me  they  have  been  more  solemn  than  usual; 

•  Grandmother. 


150         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BTTN5EN. 

and  to  Charles  they  have  been  clouded  by  the  tidings  of 
the  death  of  his  mother,  whose  vital  powers  failed  on 

the  27th  of  November My  dear  Charles  does  not 

think  it  possible  that  his  father  can  long  survive  the 
death  of  his  wife.  He  is  in  his  seventy-seventh  year, 
and  the  happiness  of  his  life  has  for  so  great  a  length 
of  time  entirely  consisted  in  seeing  her,  speaking  to 
her,  and  feeling  her  to  be  near  him,  that  it  is  scarcely 
possible  he  should  physically  sustain  the  shock  of  her 
removal  He  is  sure  to  be  carefully  attended  to  by 
Charles's  youngest  sister,  who  lives  very  near  him,  and 
who  had  wished  to  prevail  upon  him  to  come  into  her 
house,  that  she  might  have  him  hourly  under  her  eyes : 
but  he  objected  with  vehemence,  and  said  he  would  never 
be  conveyed  from  the  house  he  had  inhabited  with  his  wife 
so  many  years,  except  to  be  buried.  Their  union  had  been 
most  perfect,  and  the  affections  of  their  hearts  had  only 
seemed  to  strengthen,  in  proportion  as  bodily  and  mental 
powers  became  enfeebled. 

"  I  think  that  the  letter  I  sent  to  my  Mother  about  this 
time  last  year,  was  so  interrupted  that  I  could  not  give  any 
account  of  the  Christmas  tree  that  was  made,  to  Henry's 
great  delight,  by  Charles  and  Mr.  Brandis.    This  year 

we  made  him  a  still  finer  tree Henry  was  brought 

in  by  Angelina.  At  first  he  stared,  and  could  not  under- 
stand what  it  all  meant,  but  after  a  minute  he  made  an 
exclamation  of  delight,  which  was  continually  renewed 
with  increasing  animation  as  he  spied  the  various  treasures 
in   detail.    Ernest    opened    his  two   eyes  at  the  sight, 

stretched  out  his  fat  arms,  and  jumped  and  smiled 

On  Christmas  Eve  I  put  Henry  to  sleep,  that  I  might  let 


MARRIAGE.  151 


Angelina  go  to  her  supper,  for  as  a  strange  specimen  of 
Italian  taste,  the  servants  had  not  chosen  to  eat  any  dinner, 
that  they  might  have  the  full  enjoyment  of  a  '  cena  di 
Natale ' — which  I  should  have  understood  better,  if  they 
had  put  off  the  supper  till  after  midnight,  because  then  it 
would  have  been  lawful  to  eat  grasso,  but  as  their  supper 
took  place  at  8  o'clock,  they  were  as  much  obliged  to  eat 
magro  as  at  any  other  part  of  the  day.  Henry  was  not  the 
only  person  who  received  Christmas-boxes — his  mother  too 
had  from  Ehebenitz*  a  drawing  of  Henry  with  his  nurse, 
from  Olivier  a  drawing  of  Ernest  with  his  nurse,  and  from 
Schnorr  a  drawing  of  Euth  and  Naomi.  These  three 
artists  lodge  over  us.  After  our  labours  were  ended,  we 
were  very  glad  of  our  cena,  as  well  as  the  servants.  We 
had  rice-milk,  cold  ham,  anchovies  and  bread  and  butter, 
apples,  oranges,  and  dried  figs ;  the  only  person  present 
besides  those  already  mentioned  was  Platner ;  we  should 
have  been  glad  to  have  invited  Dr.  Schmieder  and  his  wife, 
but  they  were  gone  to  help  to  make  a  tree  for  Marcus  and 
Amelia." 

"21  Jan.,  1820. — On  Monday  the  weather  was  so  bright, 
and  I  was  so  well  and  strong,  that  I  walked  to  Santa 
Maria  Maggiore,  to  see,  or  rather  to  let  the  nurse  see,  the 
benediction  of  the  animals  before  the  church  of  Sant' 
Antonio,  and  I  helped  part  of  the  way  to  carry  my  heavy 
Ernest,  while  Charles  helped  the  maid  to  carry  Henry. 

"  I  have  never  told  my  Mother  that  I  have  for  some  time 
had  in  hand  the  '  History  of  the  Council  of.  Trent/  by 
Father  Paul  Sarpi,  which  extremely  interests  me.    It  is 

•  Theodore  Ehebenitz,  of  Lubeck,  who,  quitting  his  university 
ftadies,  had  core*  to  study  painting  in  Rome. 


152         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUN8BN. 

one  of  the  books  forbidden  by  the  Church  of  Borne,  and 
with  much  reason,  for  every  line  breathes  the  spirit  of 
Protestantism.    Father  Paul  Sarpi  never  professed  him- 
self a  Protestant,  because  he  hoped  the  Venetian  Govern- 
ment, in  which  he  had  great  influence,  would  in  time  be 
induced  to  declare  against  the  Pope,  and  establish  the 
Reformation  throughout  their  states — an  event  which  was 
very  near  taking  place,  but  which  was  prevented  by  the 
unfortunate  issue  of  the  battle  on  the  Weissen  Berge  in 
Bohemia,*  in  which  the  Protestant  army  was  overthrown 
by  the  Imperialists.    Father  Paul  was  so  well  known  as 
the  declared  enemy  of  the  Court  of  Borne,  that  many 
attempts  were  made  by  his  enemies  to  assassinate  him. 
His  work  contains  a  view  of  all  characters  and  circum- 
stances which  had  influence,  whether  propitious  or  adverse, 
on  the  cause  of  religion  at  the  time ; — the  style  is  clear, 
concise,  simple,   and  forcible,  although  the  language  is 
very  nearly  the  same  with  that  which  the  modern  Italians 
so  wretchedly  misuse,   and  consequently   in   itself   less 
energetic  than  that  of  earlier  Italian  writers, — but  the 
mind  of  the  author  bestows  vigour  upon  it,  and  his  occa- 
sional summing  up  of  the  distinguishing  characteristics  of 
Popes  and  their  favourites,  contains  instances  of  keen  and 
at  the  same  time  dispassionato  dignified  satire,  to  which  I 
know  no  parallel.    I  often  recollect  with  surprise,  how 
often  I  have  been  asked,  in  England  and  out  of  England, 
about  books  in  classical  Italian  prose,  which  were  worth 
reading  on  account  of  the  subject,  and  never  could  get 
any  information.    Cardinal  Bentivoglio's  very  dry  '  Guerra 
di  Fiandra '  was  the  only  not-trashy  work  in  Italian  prose 

•  8  Not.,  1620. 


MARRIAGE.  153 


oi  which  I  could  even  procure  the  title.  At  last  I  have 
learnt,  that  there  is  no  modern  language  so  rich  in  his- 
torical works  of  intrinsic  excellence,  as  Italian,  and  that 
some  of  the  early  historians  of  Florence  approach  nearer 
to  the  excellence  of  the  Greek  and  Roman  models,  than 
the  historians  of  any  other  country,  or,  more  precisely 
speaking,  than  Hume  or  Gibbon,  whom  Mr.  Niebuhr 
rates  far  above  any  of  the  historical  writers  of  France  or 
Germany, — but  Gibbon  he  considers  as  greatly  superior  to 
Hume,  in  diligence  of  searching  after,,  and  honesty  in 
stating,  the  truth  of  facts,  except  in  a  very  few  instances, 
in  which  his  judgment  was  warped  by  his  anti-Christian 
spirit.  Varchi,  and  the  elder  Yillani,  are  the  two  Floren- 
tine historians  whom  Mr.  Niebuhr  considers  of  the  most 
distinguished  excellence,  in  particular  the  former.  I  will 
mention  a  passage  of  Gothe,  and  of  Novalis, — as  my 
Mother  says  that  a  word  often  gives  her  much  matter  for 
meditation: — Gothe  says,  'The  history  of  a  man  is  his 
character : ' — and  Novalis  says,  '  The  mind,  and  the  fate, 
of  an  individual,  are  but  different  words  for  the  same 
conception.' 

"  Of  all  the  books  I  have,  which  both  my  Mother  and  I 
know,  Patrick's  '  Pilgrim '  is  that  which  gains  upon  me 
the  most.  It  appears  to  me  the  only  piece  of  what  Dr. 
Johnson  calls  'hortatory  theology,'  with  which  I  am 
acquainted,  that  does  not  occasionally  fall  into  the  error, 
tit  fact,  however  denied  in  words,  of  admitting  a  species  of 
dualism  into  the  definition  of  that  which  is  needful  to 
salvation — that  is  to  say,  annexing  at  one  time  a  specific 
value  to  certain  outward  acts,  although  insisting  at 
another  time  upon  inefficiency  of  anything  and  everything 


154         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

but  faith — faith  in  the  real,  the  original  sense  of  the 
word ;  too  often  used  to  signify  belief,  the  assent  of  the 
understanding  to  the  dogmas  of  religion  (in  which  we 
have  no  more  merit,  than  in  beholding  the  light  by  means 
of  the  organ  which  was  granted  us  for  the  power  of 
discerning  it),  and  it  is  only  when  used  in  this  sense  {i.e. 
of  belief),  that  it  can  be  said  that  faith  alone  is  insufficient. 
That  faith  which  is  defined  by  Patrick,  which  breathes 
through  every  line  of  his  book,  is  a  living  and  active 
principle,  which  stimulates  all  those  in  whom  it  subsists 
to  strive  against  the  corruptions  of  their  moral  nature, 
which  rouses  the  best  affections  of  the  heart,  and  diffuses 
them  over  all  fellow-partakers  in  the  body  of  sin  and 
death,  fellow-heirs  of  the  mercy  of  God  through  Christ" 

"7  Feb.,  1820. — Yesterday,  after  church,  we  walked  to 
Santa  Sabba  on  the  Aventine,  formerly  a  monastery, 
whence  there  is  a  very  fine  view,  but  we  did  not  this  time 
find  anybody  at  home  to  let  us  in ;  we  had,  however,  a 
delightful  walk,  in  as  utter  stillness  and  solitude  as  if  we 
had  been  a  hundred  miles  from  a  great  town,  and  I 
gathered  some  wild  violets  in  the  lane.  During  this  time 
my  sweet  boys  had  been  in  the  garden  belonging  to 
Palazzo  Caffarelli.  I  made  coffee  in  the  same  garden 
after  dinner  for  Charles,  and  Bhebenitz,  and  Olivier,  who 
accompanied  us,  and  Henry  enjoyed  himself,  running 
about,  scratching  the  earth  with  a  stick,  and  rolling  an 
orange.  We  saw  the  glorious  sunset,  and  remained  till 
after  Venus  was  visible ;  then  I  set  myself  to  play  on  the 
pianoforte,  and  afterwards  cut  the  bread  and  butter  for 
tea,  and  then  we  had  our  accustomed  Sunday  readings, 
with  the  usual  set.    I  mention  all  these  successive  occu- 


MARRIAGE.  155 


pations,  to  show  my  Mother  that  I  can  do  a  great  deal  in 
the  course  of  the  day  without  being  knocked  up,  and  I 
must  also  mention  that  a  good  part  of  the  morning  before 
we  went  to  church  was  spent  in  carrying  about  my  sweet 
Ernest,  during  the  time  the  nurse  dressed  herself  and  went 
to  mass." 

"  12  Feb.,  1820. — Charles  has  had  a  second,  and  a 
severer  shock,  in  the  intelligence  of  the  death  of  his 
father,  who  survived  his  wife  only  six  weeks.  He  was  in 
his  seventy-seventh  year,  but  retained  all  his  faculties  to 
the  last  When  the  first  three  or  four  days  elapsed  after 
the  death  of  his  wife,  he  became  more  composed,  but 
continually  grieved  after  her,  always  concluding  his  ex- 
pressions of  lamentation  with  the  words — '  She  will  soon 
fetch  me.1  Charles  had  repeatedly  expressed  his  convic- 
tion that  the  next  letter  he  received  from  home  would 
contain  information  of  his  father's  death — but  still,  it  is 
impossible  to  be  prepared  for  such  an  event,  and  he  has 
deeply  grieved,  though  he  has  struggled  to  employ  himself 
asuBuaL'1 

"  3  March,  1820. — 0 !  if  I  could  describe  how  dear  and 
engaging  my  Ernest  becomes !  I  wish  I  could  draw  him 
as  he  is  at  this  moment — playing  with  a  great  orange, 
which  he  holds  between  his  two  fat  hands,  and  tries  to  put 
into  his  mouth.  Yesterday  Henry  walked  between  his  papa 
and  mamma  all  the  way  to  the  Coliseum.  Ernest  followed, 
calling  after  me,  and  crowing  at  my  red  shawl :  when  we 
arrived,  we  sat  down  upon  a  stone,  while  Henry  ran  about, 
gathering  daisies :  he  walked  about  a  quarter  of  the  way 
home,  and  then  petitioned  to  be  taken  lin  braccia,  a 
noma!  and  his  father  carried  him." 


156         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

"11  March,  1820. — Two  days  ago,  my  Mother,  I  was  at 
sunset  in  the  garden  of  the  Passionisti,  behind  the  Coli- 
seum, where  women  cannot  enter  except  by  express  per- 
mission from  the  Pope.  It  is  where  Oswald  *  heard  the 
Ave  Maria.  0  how  glorious  were  the  views  at  that  hour. 
I  know  no  spot  so  beautiful  in  Borne.  I  wish  the  Pope 
would  give  a  standing  permission  for  so  harmless  a  person 
as  myself ,  that  I  might  go  daily,  it  is  such  an  easy  distance. 

"  On  the  festival  of  the  Conversion  of  St.  Paul,  I  walked 
to  San  Paolo  fuori  le  Mura.  The  weather  was  glorious 
and  I  enjoyed  the  walk  extremely.  It  was  sad  to  observe 
how  few  individuals  made  that  day  the  same  pilgrimage 
with  ourselves — for  if  the  Roman  Catholics  in  Italy  believe 
anything  with  reference  to  religion,  they  believe  that  time 
and  place  add  much  to  the  efficacy  of  devotion.  I  find 
that  the  general  effect  of  the  Church  of  San  Paolo  always 
gains  upon  me,  although  never  to  such  a  degree  as  to 
make  me  cease  to  feel  how  defective  the  basilica  form 
is  for  a  church,  when  compared  to  the  mode  of  construction 
in  Gothic  churches.  I  believe  the  state  of  neglect  in 
which  San  Paolo  has  been  left  for  centuries,  contributes 
much  to  its  effect,  for  the  absence  of  the  tinselly  and  varie- 
gated decorations  with  which  every  other  Italian  church  is 
disfigured,  leaves  the  eye  undisturbed  in  contemplating 
the  magnitude  and  simplicity  of  the  design  of  the  building, 
and  the  real  magnificence  of  its  granite  and  marble  columns. 
I  had  an  additional  interest  in  examining  every  part  of  the 
church  this  time,  from  having  lately  heard  a  description  of 
the  ancient  church  of  St.  Peter's,  which  Plainer  has  been 
compiling  for  the  work  on  which  he  is  engaged:  the 

•  In  Madame  de  StaeTs  «  Corinne." 


MARRIAGE.  157 


design  of  both  buildings  must  have  been  precisely  the 
same,  and  they  were  erected  at  the  same  period,  the  foun- 
dations having  been  in  all  probability  laid  by  Constantino; 
in  particular,  by  seeing  the  front  of  San  Paolo,  a  perfect 
idea  may  be  formed  of  the  appearance  of  St.  Peter's ; — 
that  front,  my  dearest  Mother  never  saw,  for  when  we 
were  at  the  church  together,  we  had  nobody  to  tell  us  that 
we  ought  to  have  a  door  opened  at  the  opposite  extremity 
to  the  present  entrance.  At  the  real  entrance  are  gates 
of  bronze,  the  work  of  Greek  artists  of  the  time  of 
Gregory  Yii.,  which  are  very  curious,  though  most  as- 
suredly not  beautiful :  and  above  the  portico  on  the  out- 
side are  very  ancient  mosaics,  the  greater  part  of  which 
are  in  good  preservation.  This  point  is  to  be  seen  in  the 
distant  view  that  I  made  for  my  Mother,  with  a  reach  of 
the  Tiber  in  front.  It  was  taken — with  Emily !  I  have 
never  been  at  the  spot  since,  and  for  some  time,  did  not 
like  to  think  of  going,  but  I  mean  to  go  again  soon :  it  is 
a  beautiful  spot,  and  although 

1  When  the  Spring 
Comes  forth  her  work  of  gladness  to  renew, 
With  all  her  reckless  birds  upon  the  wing, 
I  may  turn  from  all  she  bears  to  that  she  cannot  bring/ 

— still,  I  shall  be  thankful,  that  she  is  not  here,  not  in 
Borne ! — that  body,  which  when  I  last  contemplated  San 
Paolo  from  the  bank  of  the  Tiber,  shrank  with  pain  from 
the  September  breeze  of  Italy,  is  no  longer  susceptible  of 
suffering— and  that  spirit,  which  was  animated  with  the 
hope  of  being  restored  to  her  home,  and  to  her  mother, 
now  dwells  in  the  eternal  home,  with  Him,  in  whom  is 
life!" 


158         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUN8EN. 

"  23  March,  1820. — Within  these  ten  days  I  have  been  to 
St.  Peter's,  to  the  underground  church,  into  which  women 
cannot  enter,  unless  by  express  permission,  except  on  "Whit- 
Monday,  on  which  day  men  are  excluded.  We  took  Henry 
with  us,  of  course  leaving  him  in  the  light  of  the  sun  while 
we  went  underground.  It  was  the  first  time  he  had  ever 
been  in  St.  Peter's,  andiie  was  extremely  delighted,  and 
called  out  so  loud  at  the  sight  of  the  great  white  statues, 
that  his  voice  echoed  to  the  other  end  of  the  church.  He 
took  great  notice  of  the  colossal  cherubs  that  support  the 
holy-water,  and  said,  '  Mama,  puppo  casca ' — Puppo 
means  a  little  child,  and  he  thought  the  cherub  would  fall; 
he  stroked  its  foot,  but  complained  that  it  was  dirty — 
'Piedino  grasso, —caeca.'  On  seeing  one  of  the  statues 
with  his  hand  stretched  out,  he  imitated  it,  and  said, 
'  Zitto  tutti ' — having  often  been  told  by  his  father,  to  his 
great  amusement,  that  his  old  friend  Marcus  Aurelius  on 
the  Capitol  stretches  out  his  hand  and  says,  '  Zitto  tutti — 
Eoma  d  mia ! '  He  was  very  happy  at  the  Villa  Paxnfili, 
and  it  has  made  a  great  impression — the  tall  pines  (the 
poor  child  has  never  seen  trees  anywhere  else),  the  ane- 
mones and  violets,  the  fountains,  and  the  soft  grass  upon 
which  he  fell  so  often  without  hurting  himself — many  a 
time  has  he  mentioned  some  of  the  things  that  he  saw  and 
did  there,  looking  up  eagerly  to  have  the  rest  enumerated 
to  him." 

"  12  April,  1820.— On  Easter  Sunday,  my  sweet  Henry's 
birthday,  I  had  wished  to  have  taken  him  to  St.  Peter's, 
for  it  is  very  unlikely  I  shall  again  see  the  benediction 
given  by  the  present  Pope:  but  after  having  been  at 
church  early,  I  was  too  much  tired  to  go  out  again.    My 


MARRIAGE.  159 


Henry  however  had  a  great  deal  of  amusement,  for  little 
Marcus  and  Amelia  Niebuhr  came  to  see  him!  and  brought 
him  a  cake,  with  a  long  taper  stuck  in  the  middle  and 
three  shorter  stuck  round.  It  is  a  German  custom  to 
give  such  cakes  on  birthdays :  the  taper  in  the  centre  re- 
presents the  flame  of  life,  and  round  the  cake  are  placed  as 
many  other  tapers  as  the  person  is  years  old,  with  one  for 
the  year  that  is  just  coming,  and  the  cake  is  covered  with 
flowers,  or  sugar-plums,  or  dried  fruits.  Then  Henry's 
three  friends,  Igo,  and  Doro,  and  Giu  (Federigo,  Teodoro, 
and  Giulio*),  who  lodge  over  us,  brought  him  a  waggon 
drawn  by  painted  grey  oxen,  containing  flowers  and 
oranges  and  a  piping  man  and  a  tumbling  man.  St. 
Peter's  was  illuminated  in  the  evening,  which  was  a  great 
delight  to  Henry,  who  stayed  up  to  see  the  change  from 
lanterns  to  flambeaux,  although  just  before  it  he  became 
so  sleepy,  that  he  put  his  arms  round  his  own  mother's 
neck,  and  his  cheek  against  her  cheek,  and  dropped  off. 

"I  have  reason  to  be  greatly  obliged  to  Mr.  and  Mrs. 
Niebuhr  for  continued  and  increasing  kindness  in  word, 
deed,  and  manner." 

"  15  June,  1820. — On  Sunday  the  7th  we  went  to  Fras- 
cati,  and  next  morning  drove  to  the  Villa  Mondragone.  The 
prospect  seemed  more  magnificent  than  ever.  My  Mother 
will  remember  how  the  row  of  pines,  and  the  avenue  of 
cypresses,  and  the  olive-grounds,  appeared  from  the  ter- 
race. On  our  return  we  went  to  our  old  Casino  Accoram- 
buoni,  and  found  the  house,  and  the  terrace  and  the  view, 
looking  as  they  used  to  look.  We  dined,  and  I  had  a  fine 
sleep  after  dinner,  and  we  afterwards  drove  through  the 

*  Olivier,  Rhebenitz,  and  Schnorr. 


160         LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSKN. 

Villa  Bracdano  and  the  beautiful  wood  to  Grotta  Ferrata, 
went  into  the  church,  and  saw  the  Domenichino  chapel, 
which  pleased  Henry  very  much,  bat  my  Ernest  not  less, 
and  he  did  nothing  hut  laugh  loud,  and  call  after  the 
painted  figures  on  the  walla.  Next  morning  very  early,  we 
drove  to  Monte  Compatri,  which  is  beyond  Monte  Porno, 
and  higher  on  the  mountain,  from  whence  the  nurse  was 
delighted  to  be  able  to  discern  Zagarola,  and  even,  as  she 
said,  her  own  vineyard !  Often  did  she  assure  us  it  was 
only  five  miles  further — and  we  should  have  been  almost 
as  pleased  as  herself  to  have  indulged  her  with  driving 
there,  if  Zagarola  was  not  in  a  very  unsafe  quarter  as  to 
robbers.  After  having  rested  ourselves  and  our  horses 
during  the  heat  of  the  day,  and  had  our  dinner,  we  went 
through  Marino,  Castello,  Albano  and  L'Aricda,  to 
Oenzano.  The  drive  was  most  beautiful,  and  the  wood, 
and  the  fountain,  and  the  old  tower  at  Marino,  in  the 
evening  sun,  produced  their  most  magnificent  effect.  On 
Wednesday  morning  I  sat  out  a  long  time,  first  in  a 
garden  in  sight  of  the  lake,  afterwards  in  a  shady  avenue 
which  leads  towards  L'Ariccia,  in  which  my  sweet  boys 
enjoyed  themselves  extremely ;  and  Charles  read  aloud  to 
me.  Thursday  was  the  octave  of  the  fete  of  Corpus 
Domini,  which  is  the  occasion  of  a  festival  peculiar  to 
Genzano  that  I  had  long  wished  to  see,  and  the  effect 
greatly  surpassed  my  expectations.  My  Mother  will  re- 
member the  arrangement  of  flowers  in  patterns,  on  the 
steps  leading  to  the  underground  church  of  St.  Peter's, 
on  the  octave  of  Corpus  Domini  three  years  ago,  and  that 
will  give  her  an  idea  in  some  degree  of  what  is  done  on  a 
great  scale  at  Genzano  the  length  of  two  streets,  along 


MARRIAGE.  161 


which  the  procession  passes  an  hour  before  dark.  The 
streets  are  on  the  steep  declivity  of  the  hill,  and  at  the 
bottom  is  another  wider  street,  where  there  is  a  fountain. 
At  the  top  of  one  street,  terminating  the  vista,  is  the 
church,  at  the  top  of  the  other  an  altar  erected  for  the 
occasion,  under  a  high  pavilion.  Between  the  church  and 
the  altar  is  an  avenue.  A  narrow  space  is  left  on  each  side 
the  street  for  foot  passengers,  and  the  centre  is  parted  off 
by  what  I  can  only  call  column*  of  foliage — thin  wooden 
posts  about  three  feet  high,  with  branches  of  box, 
rosemary,  or  myrtle,  tied  so  thick  over  them,  that 
the  wood  is  not  to  be  seen,  and  at  the  top  of  each, 
either  a  flower-pot  full  of  carnations,  or  a  great  nosegay 
of  lilies,  embosomed  in  green.  The  centre  of  the  streets 
between  these  two  rows  is  first  covered  thick  with  box, 
rosemary,  sage,  and  sweet  herbs,  and  then  divided  into 
compartments,  strewed  with  flowers  of  all  colours  in 
various  devices,  the  possessor  of  every  house  taking  care 
to  ornament  the  compartment  before  his  dwelling.  It 
would  take  too  much  time  and  space  to  enumerate  even  a 
part  of  the  devices,  but  the  flowers  principally  made  use 
of  were  the  yellow  Spanish  broom,  the  white  matricula, 
the  scarlet  wild  poppy,  and  the  purple  and  lilac  wild 
"Venus' fl  looking-glass;  roses  and  lilies  and  carnations, 
being  greater  scarcities,  were  only  introduced  occasionally, 
to  form  wreaths.  The  procession  moved  from  the  church 
along  the  avenue,  and  then  over  the  flower*  the  whole 
length  of  both  streets  back  to  the  church:  the  crowd 
which  followed  it  of  course  trampled  and  confounded 
everything,  but  closed  in  and  concealed  the  devastation. 
We  saw  the  procession  from  our  windows,  and  my  Henry 

VOL.  I.  M 


162         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

sung  '  Ewiva  la  Croce '  as  loud  as  he  could,  every  time  a 
cross  or  crucifix  was  carried  by.  I  went  along  the  streets 
to  see  the  infiorata  as  soon  as  it  was  finished;  Charles 
carried  Henry,  and  Ernest  was  carried  by  his  nurse ;  both 
were  very  happy,  but  the  joy  of  Ernest  at  seeing  so  many 
people  and  so  many  flowers,  was  the  most  apparent :  he 
laughed  and  crowed  the  whole  way,  and  was  much  noticed 
and  admired.  Often  did  I  hear—'  Ma,  Dio  la  benedica ! 
che  bella  creatura ! ' " 

On  the  22nd  of  July,  the  birth  of  her  eldest  grand- 
daughter was  announced  to  Mrs.  Waddington. 

Madame  Bra  sen  to  her  Mother. 

"10  August,  1820. — Oh !  it  is  such  a  happiness  to  have 
my  little  girl,  and  hold  her,  and  touch  her,  and  look  at 
her,  that  I  sometimes  fancy  I  must  have  been  unjust  to 
her  darling  brothers,  and  that  I  could  not  have  loved 
them  so  much  when  they  were  as  little,  and  yet  I  did 

certainly I  have  looked  and  gazed  and  examined 

my  sweet  girl,  till  I  am  convinced  she  will  be  like  my 
Mother." 

' '  6  Sept.,  1 820. — My  Mother,  I  for  ever  grudge  myself  the 
delight  my  children  give  me,  when  I  think  that  you  have 
been  for  so  long  a  time  without  an  enjoyment  that  you 
would  live  upon — f  eed  upon — I  know  you  would.  This 
feeling  more  especially  occurs  to  me  when  I  see  my 
Henry's  eyes,  as  they  were  fixed  upon  me  yesterday  morn- 
ing at  breakfast,  when  he  came  running  to  me  'Mama, 
Bighetto  *  rotto  un  bicchiere ' — in  a  whisper,  not  to  inter- 

*  The  Italian  nurse- word  for  Enrico. 


MARRIAGE.  163 


nipt  papa,  who  was  reading  the  newspaper.  ....  And  I 
long  particularly  for  my  mother  to  see  my  Ernest,  when  he 
embraces  his  own  mother.  He  has  the  most  touching 
manner  of  clinging  round  my  neck,  and  pressing  his  soft 
face  against  me.  I  have  not  been  able  for  a  long,  long 
time  to  do  anything  for  that  poor  child,  except  love  him, 
for  he  is  too  heavy  for  me  to  carry, — but  he  is  most 
aware  how  well  I  love  him,  or  he  would  not  love  me  so 
much.  Yesterday  I  drove  out  for  the  first  time,  with  my 
three  treasures.  I  went  along  the  Tiber,  beyond  Porta 
Portese,  and  afterwards  to  Villa  Borghese.  Last  Sunday 
I  was  at  church,  and  my  little  angel  was  christened — Mary 
Frances.  I  must  call  my  girl  Mary,  the  name  that  I  love 
so  much.  I  could  almost  fancy  I  had  heard  my  Mother 
called  by  it,  which  I  never  did." 

"  24  Sept.,  1820. — Yesterday  I  attended  the  christening  of 
Mrs.  Niebuhr's  little  girl,  born  eighteen  days  after  my 
Mary,  to  whom  I  had  been  much  gratified  by  being  asked 
to  be  godmother." 

"ZDec,  1820. — Alas!  I  shall  never  see  Bishop  Sand- 
ford*  again  in  this  world ! — may  I  be  worthy  to  be  recog- 
nised by  him  in  another." 

41  Christmas  Day,  1820. — Before  we  went  to  church  to 
receive  the  Sacrament,  Charles  and  I  read  together  the  13th 
and  14  th  chapters  of  the  Gospel  of  St.  John,  and  I  was  struck 
particularly  with  the  words  of  our  Saviour* — '  What  I  do 
thou  knowest  not  now,  but  thou  shalt  know  hereafter.'  It 
is  true  that  without  this  assurance,  we  ought  to  be  equally 
satisfied  that  all  the  circumstances  of  life,  as  ordained  by 

•  Bishop  of  Edinburgh.    The  old  family  friendship  with  his  mother 
M  Sally  Chapone  "  is  mentioned  early  in  the  volume. 


164         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BLTNSEN. 

God,  must  be  for  our  good — but  the  promise  of  future 
explanation,  probably  even  in  this  world,  might  well 
operate  to  tranquillise  us,  on  points  the  most  inexplicable 
in  appearance. 

"I  can  say  nothing  of  my  Mary,  except  that  she  is 
always  well — what  other  words  could  I  use  to  give  an  idea 
of  how  lovely  she  is  ?  The  fact  is  according  to  Charles' s 
words  the  other  day — '"We  ought  to  pray  God  that  we 
may  not  quite  worship  her,  lest  she  should  be  taken  from 
us  as  a  punishment,'  " 


CHAPTER  YI. 

SHADOWS. 

•  The  mother  gave,  in  team  and  pain, 
The  flowers  she  most  did  love ; 
She  knew  she  should  find  them  all  again 
Jn  the  fields  of  light  above. 

M  0,  not  in  cruelty,  not  in  wrath 
The  Reaper  came  that  day ; 
'Twas  an  angel  visited  the  green  earth, 
And  took  the  flowers  away." 

Longfellow. 

TN  the  year  1821,  Bunsen's  mind  was  chiefly  occupied 
with  the  hope  of  bringing  about  the  establishment 
of  a  common  form  of  worship  throughout  Protestant 
Germany,  as  a  means  of  drawing  its  various  churches 
into  Christian  communion  and  fellowship.  With  this 
view,  he  devoted  himself  to  his  Gebetbuch,  on  a  plan 
indicated,  but  not  carried  out,  by  Luther :  and  to  his 
Gesangbuch,  a  collection  of  hymns  chiefly  chosen  from 
the  works  of  the  more  ancient  hymn- writers.  Not  less 
was  he  anxious  for  the  improvement  of  hymn-music  in 
Germany,  and  for  this  object  was  assisted  by  his  young 
friend  Reisiger  in  selecting  or  reforming  versions  of 


166         LIFB  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

the  finest  chorales.  The  complete  success  of  some 
concerts  of  sacred  music  which  were  given  by  the 
Niebuhrs  in  honour  of  Baron  Stein*  and  Prince  Har- 
denberg,  also  induced  Bunsen  to  persuade  the  director 
of  the  Papal  Choir  to  allow  some  of  its  members  to  sing 
on  fixed  evenings  during  the  winter  months  at  the 
Palazzo  Caffarelli,  when  his  family  and  their  intimate 
circle  of  friends  had  such  an  enjoyment  of  the  master- 
pieces of  ancient  music  as  is  seldom  attainable. 

Next  to  the  Niebuhrs,  the  most  valued  friend  of  the 
Bunsens  at  this  time  resident  in  Rome  was  Augustus 
Kestner,  the  Hanoverian  Secretary  of  Legation,  "  of 
whose  worth  and  merit/'  wrote  Madame  Bunsen,  quot- 
ing Gothe,  "  a  detailed  biography  alone  can  be  com- 
petent to  measure  and  estimate  the  full  circumf er- 
ence."f  Most  intimate  also,  and  greatly  valued  in 
their  house  was  the  fresco- painter,  Julius  Schnorr  von 
Carolsfeld,  who  lived  above  them  in  the  Palazzo 
Caffarelli,  $  and  in  a  less  degree  Augustus  Grahl,  the 


*  Carl,  Baron  Stein,  the  minister  of  Frederick  William  IV.  It 
he  who  introduced  the  measures  which  transformed  the  old  into  the 
modern  Prussia  by  advocating  the  reform  of  those  abuses  which  had 
led  to  the  great  Revolution  in  France.  After  the  Battle  of  Jena, 
Napoleon  insisted  upon  his  dismissal,  and  he  spent  some  time  at  the 
Russian  court,  where  he  prepared  the  way  for  that  understanding 
between  Russia,  Austria,  and  Prussia  which  caused  the  coalition  fatal 
to  Napoleon.  His  latter  years  were  spent  in  retirement  on  his  estates 
near  Nassau,  where  a  monument  was  erected  in  his  memory  by  public 
subscription  in  1872. 

f  Kestner  died  in  1853,  having  kept  up  his  faithful  friendship  for  the 
Bunsens  to  the  last. 

I  He  left  Rome  in  1825. 


SHADOWS.  167 


miniature  painter,  who  inhabited  rooms  in  the  left 
wing  of  the  palace.* 

The  month  of  March  was  clouded  by  the  sudden  death, 
from  an  infectious  fever,  of  William  Waddington,  a 
cousin  of  Madame  Bunsen,  who  had  come  to  Rome  to 
visit  the  antiquities.  On  this  occasion  the  disinterested 
character  of  Bunsen  was  vividly  shown  in  his  making 
no  opposition  to  his  wife's  strong  wish — fearless  of  the 
risk  for  herself — to  minister  to  her  dying  relative, 
"  dreading  nothing/9  as  Mrs.  Waddington  afterwards 
wrote  to  Professor  Monk,  and  "  intent  alone  on  robbing 
death  of  its  terrors,  and  winning  a  soul  to  Heaven/1 

In  May,  Bunsen  and  his  wife  paid  a  visit  at  Albano 
to  the  Niebuhrs,  who  had  already  removed  thither  for 
the  summer  villeggiatura,  and  they  then  engaged  the 
apartments,  to  which  Madame  Bunsen  removed  with 
her  children  at  the  end  of  June.  The  business  of  the 
legation  still  detained  Bunsen  in  Rome,  but  change  of 
air  had  become  especially  desirable  for  the  precious 
infant  Mary,  whose  health  and  animation  had  flagged 
with  the  summer  heat.  Her  mother  soon  beheld  with 
anguish  that  she  did  not  amend.  On  her  birthday,  the 
22nd  of  July,  Bunsen  drove  out  to  visit  his  family, 
filled  with  the  pleasant  tidings  of  the  happy  engage- 
ment of  his  dear  friend  Brandis  to  the  object  of  six 
years'  attachment.  He  walked,  as  usual,  up  the  long 
hill  which  leads  from  the  Campagna  to  the  town. 
Outside  the  gates  of  Albano  his  wife  met  him,  and  he 

•  He  left  Borne  in  1830. 


168        LIFE  AND  LETTERS    OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

saw  in  her  eyes,  what  she  strove  to  tell  with  com- 
posure— "She  is  with  God."* 

Little  Mary  had  scarcely  been  laid  in  the  beautiful 
burial-ground  under  the  shadow  of  the  Pyramid  of 
Caius  Cestius,  when  Henry  became  alarmingly  ill 
Then  Madame  Bunsen  herself,  worn  with  nursing  her 
children,  fell  sick  of  tertian  fever,  and,  on  the  25th  of 
August,  Bunsen,  coming  out  from  Borne  to  his  sick 
family,  arrived  "  like  a  stone,"  a  state  which  was  soon 
changed  to  one  of  burning  fever.  Five  days  after- 
wards, he  was  in  such  extreme  danger,  that  he  gave  hip 
wife  what  he  believed  to  be  his  dying  directions,  his 
dying  benediction;  but  one  of  the  rapid  transitions, 
frequent  in  that  country,  which  has  as  great  a  power 
of  curing  as  of  endangering,  allowed  of  his  removal  to 
his  own  house  at  Borne,  and  by  the  end  of  September 
he  began  to  amend. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"1  Jan.,  1821. — The  old  year  has  closed  brightly  upon 
me,  my  Mother,  to  the  mind's  eye,  and  the  body's  eye— 
and  the  new  year  came  -forth  under  a  glowing  firmament. 
Clouds  might  perhaps  be  perceived  in  the  distant  horizon, 
or  rather  mists,  which  render  all  indistinct  and  uncertain ; 
but  those  which  I  see  or  fancy,  may  evaporate  before  they 
approach,  and  should  they  condense  in  rain,  I  trust  and 
believe  I  shall  have,  as  I  have  always  had,  a  sheltering 
roof; — and  should  they  burst  in  thunder,  and  the  light- 
ning-stroke, I  shall  know  that  no  hand  can  have  guided  it 

*  Bunsen  to  his  sister  Christiana. 


SHADOWS.  169 


but  the  hand  of  God.  Do  not  alarm  yourself,  my  Mother, 
with  the  supposition  that  these  words  contain  any  especial 
allusion :  I  foresee  no  evil — except  that  I  may  be  detained 
yet  longer  from  my  Mother.  That  is  evil  enough,  but 
perhaps  the  event  may  yet  be  better  than  I  anticipate." 

"1  Feb,,  1821. — To  show  how  far  we  have  been  from 
feeling  in  any  degree  the  cold  of  which  my  Mother  speaks, 
I  have  had  two  pots  of  heliotrope  flowering  before  my 
windows  the  whole  winter,  the  almond  trees  were  in 
blossom  at  the  end  of  January,  and  a  few  lemon  buds  have 
expanded  within  the  last  week.  We  had,  I  think,  three- 
and-twenty  days  of  uninterrupted  tramontana,  with  the 
finest  warm  sun,  and  the  clearest  sky,  since  which  we  have 
been  shrinking  from  a  keen  north-east  wind  which  has 
frozen  the  ground,  and  hung  the  lioness-fountains  at  the 
foot  of  the  Capitol  round  with  icicles,  to  the  great  surprise 
of  Henry. 

"I  have  passed  a  week  of  such  dissipation  and  disturb- 
ance, that  it  is  with  some  difficulty  I  can  collect  my 
thoughts  to  give  an  account  of  it.  First  of  all,  last  Friday 
Mr.  Niebuhr  gave  a  great  fete.  My  Mother  will  wonder, 
as  all  Home  has  wondered,  at  such  an  event,  and  has 
conjectured  in  vain  what  could  be  the  reason.  We  know 
it  was  given  in  honour  of  Baron  Stein,  and  not  of  the 
princes  and  ambassadors  who  were  invited  besides :  a 
selection  of  the  music  of  Palestrina,  consisting  of  the 
celebrated  'Missa  di  Papa  Marcello,'  and  the  Motet  t — 
'Tu  es  Petrus/ — and  afterwards  the '  Dies  Irse '  of  Pittoni, 
*ere  performed  by  the  singers  of  the  Papal  Chapel,  who 
were  stationed  at  the  further  end  of  the  long  gallery. 
The  effect  of  the  music  is  not  to  be  described,— often  as  I 


170         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

have  been  in  the  Papal  Chapel,  I  never  heard  anything 
equal  to  it, — for  the  singers  not  having  any  reason  for 
hurrying,  were  induced  to  give  every  note  its  due  value  ; 
and  the  complication  of  sound  was  of  that  subduing 
nature,  as  to  make  you  draw  your  breath,  or  lift  up  your 
eyes,  lest  some  other  object  or  sensation  should  divide 
your  attention,  and  cause  you  to  lose  a  particle.  Oh  thus, 
thus  only  can  the  angels  sing !  Had  but  my  Mother  heard 
it  too! 

"But  I  know  not  how  it  happens  that  I  have  never 
wished  for  my  Mother  more,  than  when  looking  at 
Therese  de  Stein,  Baron  Stein's  second  daughter.*  1 
know  my  mother  would  feast  upon  her  face,  she  possesses 
what  my  Mother  would  call  the  'dignity  of  beauty, *  of 
which  I  had  heard  much  more  than  I  had  ever  seen  in 
life,  till  I  saw  her — but  I  must  not  digress  upon  this 
inviting  subject. 

"  On  Sunday,  after  church,  I  went  into  the  garden,  but 
had  scarcely  entered  it,  when  Charles  called  to  me  from  a 
window  to  come  in  immediately.  He  had  been  at  *M>. 
Niebuhr's,  and  brought  the  intelligence  (which  I  will 
mention  beforehand,  turned  out  to  be  false,  however  credited 
by  Consalvi  himself)  that  a  counter-revolution  had  broken 
out  in  Naples,  and  that  the  carbonari  troops,  in  despair,  were 
advancing  through  Tivoli  to  plunder  Borne  with  all  speed 
before  the  arrival  of  the  Austrians : — consequently  that  I 
must  pack  up,  and  be  ready  to  set  off  at  an  hour's  notice, 
whenever  we  should  hear  that  the,  Pope  had  commenced 
his  journey  to  Civita  Yecchia.    My  Mother  will  easily 

•  Afterwards  Countess  Kielmannsegge.  Her  grandson,  Graf  Groben, 
is  now  the  only  representative  of  Stein. 


SHADOWS.  171 


believe  that  I  had  not  much  appetite  for  my  dinner,  which 
at  that  moment  was  brought  on  the  table.  It  was  then 
about  three  o'clock,  and  till  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening  I 
never  sat  down,  but  continued  running  about  the  house, 
collecting  things  together,  and  giving  directions.  About 
ten,  it  was  ascertained  that  no  counter-revolution  had 
occurred,  and  that  there  was  no  immediate  danger  of  the 
approach  of  the  Neapolitans,  consequently  we  went  to 
bed,  and  slept  in  peace,  and  I  was  so  fresh  again  the  next 
day,  that  I  went  to  a  great  ball  given  by  Madame  Appony* 
on  account  of  the  Emperor's  birthday,  which  was  the  finest 
fete  I  ever  saw. 

"  How  little  I  have  said  of  my  darling  children.  They 
are  well,  and  merry,  and  good,  and  engaging :  whichever 
of  the  three  I  look  at,  I  always  imagine  it  is  that  child  in 
particular  that  I  wish  most  to  show  to  my  Mother." 

"  14  Feb.,  1821. — The  glorious  weather  lately  has  occa- 
sioned my  being  much  in  the  garden  with  my  dear 
children,  weeding,  and  hoeing,  and  teaching  my  lazy  boy 
to  carry  away  the  weeds  in  his  wheelbarrow.  Then  when 
I  have  gathered  oranges  for  my  boys,  and  given  them  to 
the  maid  to  peel,  I  sit  down  in  the  sun,  and  read.  My 
darling  Mary  is  happy  in  the  house,  and  happy  in  the 
garden,  and  thinks  nothing  so  great,  amusement  as  being 
jumped  by  her  own  mother,  while  the  nurse  plays  with 
her." 

"  9  March,  1821. — I  must  try  to  give  my  Mother  some 
account  of  people  that  I  have  seen  this  winter.  The 
family  of  the  Baron  de  Bedenf  have  been  here  a  year  and 

*  Austrian  ambassadress  in  Home, 
t  Hanoverian  Minister. 


172         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

a  half.  "We  were  introduced  to  them  soon  after  their 
arrival,  and  as  they  had  regular  evenings  for  receiving 
company!  we  ought  to  have  gone  to  their  house,  but  I  was 
too  unwell  all  last  winter  and  spring  to  take  so  much 
trouble,  and  Charles  therefore  excused  himself. 

"When,  at  length,  Charles  and  I  went  together  to 
Madame  de  Beden's,  and  were  received  and  attended  to 
in  such  a  manner  throughout  the  evening,  that  any 
stranger  who  had  taken  notice,  must  have  supposed,  we 
could  be  nothing  less  than  the  Prince  and  Princess  of 
Denmark,  of  all  persons  now  in  Borne.  We  have  since 
renewed  our  visits  as  often  as  we  could,  and  always 
receive  the  most  pressing  solicitations  to  continue  to  do  so. 
With  Madame  de  Beden  herself,  with  her  eldest  daughter,* 
and  her  niece,  Mademoiselle  Wurmb,  I  have  great  plea- 
sure in  conversing,  particularly  with  the  eldest  daughter, 
who  I  believe  has  both  heart  and  head,  and  whom  I  wish 
I  had  opportunities  of  seeing  otherwise  than  in  a  mixed 
society :  we  meet  Baron  Stein  there  sometimes,  and  many 
other  people,  and  there  is  always  music  of  one  sort  or 
other.  That  there  is  something  in  Charles  worth  knotoing, 
all  people  know  in  time,  and  some  people  find  out  at  once 
(like  Baron  Stein) — but  to  the  Bedens  in  the  first  instance 
the  attraction  in  us  both,  was  the  circumstance  of  our 
living  to  ourselves,  and  yet  not  living  without  society. 

"Charles  has  lately  been  much  occupied  with  Baron 
Stein.  All  who  know  him,  or  could  imagine  his  sort 
of  character,  would  feel  that  he  is  one  of  that  class   of 

*  Henrietta  de  Reden,  afterwards  godmother  to  Emilia  Henrietta 
de  Bunsen,  continued  to  the  end  of  her  life — as  a  chanoinesse  of  one  of 
fbo  StifU  of  North  Germany,  an  intimate  friend  of  the  Bunsen  family. 


SHADOWS.  173 


persons  from  whom  a  request  is  equally  felt  to  be  a 
command  and  an  obligation,  and  would  not  wonder 
that  when  Charles  each  day  was  asked  to  make  an  ap- 
pointment for  the  following  day,  to  spend  from  three  to 
four  hours  in  walking  or  driving  about,  for  the  double 
purpose  of  seeing  sights  and  conversing,  to  comply  was  a 
thing  of  course :  and  to  this  sacrifice  of  time  there  was 
no  difficulty  in  being  reconciled,  as  besides  the  gratifica- 
tion of  becoming  acquainted  with  such  an  individual  as 
Baron  Stein,  the  opportunity  was  invaluable  for  obtain- 
ing information  as  to  political  events  in  late  years,  such 
as  few  persons  can  be  equally  qualified  to  give.  Baron 
Stein  has  from  the  very  first  spoken  to  Charles  with 
a  degree  of  openness  that  could  only  result  from  the 
conviction  that  the  person  with  whom  he  was  conversing 
was  worthy  of  the  best  he  had  to  bestow,  and  was  not  to 
be  won  with  less  than  the  best.  At  this  conviction  he 
would  naturally  arrive  the  sooner,  from  what  Mr.  Niebuhr 
must  have  said  of  Charles, — for  although  I  cannot  know 
what  that  was,  I  am  aware  that  Mr.  Niebuhr  knows  how  to 
to  praiso — knows  how  to  measure  his  words,  so  that  much 
may  be  left  to  be  discovered,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
discloses  enough  to  prove  that  the  discovery  is  worth 
making. 

"At  Mr.  Niebuhr's  fete,  when  almost  everybody  removed 
into  the  long  gallery  to  take  places  to  hear  the  music,  I 
remained  in  the  outer  room,  thinking  that  the  sound  in 
the  gallery  would  be  too  powerful,  and  Baron  Stein  seated 
himself  by  me.  After  speaking  very  graciously  about 
various  things,  he  said,  '  I  think  there  is  a  draught  of 
wind  here,  shall  we  move  to  the  opposite  side  of  the 


174         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

room  ? '  I  assented,  and  we  went  across,  but  that  I  might 
not  seem  to  force  myself  upon  him,  I  moved  towards  a, 
chair  at  a  little  distance  from  that  of  which  he  was  going 
to  take  possession,  but  he  showed  the  chair  next  to  his 
own,  and  asked  if  I  would  not  sit  there,  as  I  should  hear 
well  in  that  place.  Just  after,  the  greater  part  of  the 
assembly  found  it  better  to  make  their  retreat  to  the  outer 
room, — when  Baron  Stein  said  to  me  '  We  judged  right  in 
remaining  here.'  These  are  petty  details  which  would 
seem  very  empty  to  anybody  else — but  I  think  they  will 
help  my  Mother  to  form  an  idea  of  Baron  Stein's  power  of 
conferring  an  obligation  by  means  of  half  a  word  or 
motion. 

"  William  (Waddington)  has  been  in  Borne  for  some 
time,  and  I  have  that  to  tell  of  him,  which  will  greatly 
shock  you.  He  is  ill  of  a  fever  with  little  hope  of  re- 
covery  Charles  intends  to  watch  for  a  lucid  interval, 

to  warn  him  of  his  danger." 

"10  March,  1821. — I  did  not  think  my  own  dearest 
Mother  when  I  left  off  writing  yesterday  that  I  should  see 
poor  William  expire  to-day  at  five  o'clock !  far  less  did  I 
anticipate  the  satisfactory  feelings  with  which  I  have 
watched  his  last  moments.  He  received  the  Sacrament 
with  perfect  collectedness,  joined  in  every  response,  spoke 
often  to  Charles  of  his  sins  and  offences,  but  reiterated  the 
assurance  of  his  faith  in  God's  mercy  through  the  merits 

of  our  Saviour My  Mother  will  not  wish  me  to  write 

more.    I  am  much  worn,  but  she  must  not  be  afraid  that 
I  shall  be  ill." 

"  14  March,  1821. — I  have  ventured  to  take  off  my 
darling  Mary's  long  sleeves,  and  have  now  the  constant 


SHADOWS.  175 


treat  of  seeing  her  arms.  If  I  could  describe  anything  so 
round  or  beautiful  as  they  are !— or  anything  so  beaming 
as  her  eyes,  or  so  pretty  as  her  mouth,  her  chin,  her  throat, 
the  nape  of  her  neck,  her  shoulders ! — and  she  is  the  mer- 
riest thing  in  the  world  and  engaging  beyond  all  concep- 
tion, and,  my  Mother,  she  is  eight  months  old ! 

"  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr's  two  concerts,  one  in  honour  of 
Baron  Stein,  the  other  in  honour  of  Prince  Hardenberg,* 
have  excited  a  prodigious  sensation  (in  all  people  of 
surprise,  in  many  of  pleasure),  and  an  opening  was  made 
for  proposing  a  continuance  of  the  same  performances,  the 
expenses  to  be  defrayed  by  a  subscription.  All  the  princes 
in  Home,  and  all  the  ambassadors,  immediately  subscribed, 
and,  of  course,  such  names  as  theirs  secured  at  once  a  more 
than  sufficient  number  of  other  names.  The  tickets  were 
signed  and  the  business  managed  entirely  by  Charles  and 
Kestner,  the  Hanoverian  Secretary  of  Legation  (who  is, 
bye  the  bye,  the  son  of  Werther's  Lotte — a  very  excellent 
person,  and  very  good  friend  of  ours).  Two  concerts  have 
taken  place,  and  have  been  a  most  exquisite  indulgence. 
At  the  third  it  has  been  settled  that  the  society  of  Sirleti 
shall  together  with  the  singers  of  the  Papal  Chapel  perform 
the  Miserere  of  Marcello.  I  have  only  yet  heard  the  re- 
hearsal— but  alas !  my  Mother,  I  am  spoilt  by  Palestrina.  I 
am  at  a  loss  to  conceive  how  I  ever  could  listen  with 
pleasure  to  Marcello — it  seems  to  me  now  so  empty,  so 
unconnected,  so  unmeaning,  so  unmelodious!  But  it  is 
nevertheless  a  great  happiness  to  have  heard  the  best  of  the 
best,  even  though  I  may  never  hear  it  more  after  I  have 
left  Borne,  for  the  recollection  of  it  is  better  than  the  sen- 

*  The  Prussian  Prime-Minister. 


176         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BU2CSEN. 

sation  produced  by  what  is  inferior.  Oh,  if  my  Mother  did 
but  know  Palestrina,  hav-ng  only  heard  the  Miserere  of  the 
Papal  Chapel,  I  fear  she  can  scarcely  imagine,  however 
she  may  believe,  of  what  infinite  variety  of  effect  and  con- 
ception that  style  of  composition  is  susceptible. 

"The  Miss  Berry's  were  at  the  concerts,  and  each  time 
happened  to  sit  close  to  me,  therefore  I  had  a  full  oppor- 
tunity of  observing  their  behaviour,  and  hearing  their 
conversation.     In  the   fine  and   fashionable  dress — the 
toques,  and  the  caps,  the  satin,  the  gauze,  and  the  blonde 
in  which  they  are  always  attired,  it  is  out  of  my  power  to 
recognise  the  little  woman  whom  we  saw  one  morning  at 
Mrs.  W.  Lock's ;  but  I  observe  that  the  Miss  Berry  who 
appears  by  far  the  youngest,  and  is  the  tallest,  with  a  very 
good  and  youthful  figure,  is  the  person  who  has  the  harsh 
voice,  the  dictatorial  tone,  and  the  keen  black  eyes.    The 
other  Miss  Berry  looks  much  milder,  is  quieter  in  her 
manner,  and  speaks  neither  so  much  nor  so  loud.    The 
first-mentioned  attacked  Charles  at  one  of  the  concerts  (for 
her  speaking  to  anybody  has  the  appearance  of  an  attack) 
to  ask  the  very  learned  question,  whether  Palestrina  had 
not  lived  just  before  Marcello.*     Baron  Stein  mentioned 
the  Miss  Borry's  to  Charles    in   this  manner  — '  There 
is  an  old  woman  who  goes  about  Borne  with  a  younger 
sister  of  sixty  or  seventy  years  of  age.     She  is  always 
talking  about  Horace  Walpole :  I  have  given  her  to  under- 
stand that  I  despiso  the  man,  but  nothing  can  keep  her 
quiet  on  the  subject.' " 

"2  May,  1821. — This  day  se'nnight  I  went  to  Madame 
do  Bedens.    We  did  not  arrive  till  ten,  because  Charles 

•  Palestrina,  1529—94.     Marcello,  1686—1739. 


SHADOWS.  177 


had  much  to  write,  and  we  came  away  at  one  o'clock,  but 
the  greater  part  of  the  intermediate  time  I  was  waltzing, 
and  was  at  the  last  so  far  from  tired,  that  I  could  willingly 
have  waltzed  longer.  Two  days  after  I  had  a  violent 
cramp,  which  made  me  quite  lame,  so  that  I  hopped  and 
hobbled  about  the  house  all  Saturday  morning,  but  on 
Saturday  evening,  Ringseis*  came  for  his  leave-taking 
visit,  and  we  had  some  other  people  to  meet  him,  who  by 
degrees  were  so  wound  up  by  singing,  that  all  set  about 
waltzing — and  soon  I  waltzed  too — and  the  end  of  the 
story  is,  had  no  future  cramp  or  fatigue." 

uAU>ano,  22  May,  1821. — We  came  to  Albano  last 
Thursday,  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  having  removed  here  a 
few  days  before,  to  the  villa  of  Cardinal  Consalvi.  Imme- 
diately after  their  arrival,  Mr.  Niebuhr  wrote  to  say  that 
they  had  wished  to  invite  us  to  come  to  them,  but  had 
found  that  although  the  villa  was  spacious  enough  for  two 
families,  the  number  of  beds  was  only  sufficient  for  one. 
However  they  hoped  that  we  would  take  a  lodging  at 
Albano,  and  live  with  them  as  much  as  if  we  were  in  the 
same  house ;  adding  that  they  would  send  the  carriage  to 
fetch  us,  in  case  we  consented  to  the  plan.  We  came 
accordingly,  and  have  taken  rooms  in  a  house  with  a 
beautiful  view,  and  a  garden,  at  the  end  of  the  town 
nearest  the  tomb  of  the  Horatii  and  Curiatii.  Were  not 
the  present  so  bright,  the  multitude  of  recollections  in 
Albano  connected  with  images  of  pain,f  would  be  enough 
to  cast  a  gloom  over  the  place,  which,  as  a  place,  I  never 

*  A  Qerman  physician  at  Rome. 

f  The  greater  part  of  Mrs.  Manley's  married  life  had  been  pawed 
at  Albano— in  a  state  of  suffering  not  understood  at  the  time. 

VOL.  I.  H 


178         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF*  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


liked  as  well  as  Frascati  or  Genzano.  Still,  if  we  can  find 
a  house  to  suit  us,  we  shall  probably  settle  here  for  the 
summer.  Frascati,  alas!  can  hardly  be  considered  as 
secure,  on  account  of  the  bands  of  robbers ;  that  is  to  say 
the  town  is  no  doubt  secure,  but  it  would  be  too  tantalising 
to  inhabit  it  without  feeling  at  liberty  to  visit  my  favourite 
haunts,  and  the  road  to  Mondragone,  and  the  wood  to- 
wards Grotta  Ferrata,  are  too  little  frequented  to  be  safe, 
since  the  robbers  only  the  week  before  last  carried  off  from 
Camaldoli  seven  poor  monks,  in  hopes  of  extorting  a 
ransom  from  the  government. 

"In  the  letter  my  Mother  wrote,  on  first  hearing  of 
William's  death,  it  struck  me  very  much  that  she  should 
have  commented  on  Charles's  fetching  me,  without  my 
having  said  anything  to  suggest  to  her  the  keener  sense, 
or  rather  the  increased  experience,  I  had  had  of  his  value 
— of  his  more  peculiar  value  to  a  person  constituted  as  I 
am — from  all  the  circumstances  attending  William's  last 
illness.  From  the  first  moment  I  knew  he  was  seriously  ill 
my  Mother  will  well  believe  that  the  wish  to  be  personally 
of  use  was  perpetually  recurring,  but  as  often  checked  by 
the  consideration  that  the  fever  was  believed  to  be  infec- 
tious, and  that  with  my  three  children  born,  and  another 
to  be  born  it  was  not  my  duty,  to  expose  myself  to  any 
risk.  Those  feelings  were  the  same,  but  I  was  of  course 
more  disturbed  by  the  conflict,  on  the  morning  of  the  last 
day,  during  the  hours  that  I  sat  at  home, — very  glad  that 
I  had  a  frock  to  make  for  Ernest,  with  which  my  hands 
could  proceed  mechanically,  and  very  glad  that  my  children 
were  pleased  to  run  from  one  room  to  another,  so  that  I 
could  see  and  hear  them,  without  being  called  upon  to 


SHADOWS.  179 


attend  to  them.  But  I  never  said  to  Charles  that  I  wished 
to  go  to  William,  satisfied  that  he  knew  my  feelings,  and 
that  if  it  was  right  he  would  propose  to  me  to  go ; — though 
when  he  came  to  fetch  me,  it  was  a  relief  which  I  as  it 
were  expected,  without  having  done  anything  to  procure 
it  for  myself.  In  the  hurry  of  spirits  in  which  I  left  the 
house  with  him,  I  forgot  to  put  in  my  pocket  my  little 
prayer-book,  which  I  afterwards  on  the  way  regretted,  as 
I  thought  it  might  have  assisted  me  in  finding  words  of 
consolation;  but  on  consideration  of  the  whole  of  the 
dying  scene,  I  am  convinced  the  book  would  have  been  of 
no  use.  When  I  made  one  or  two  attempts  to  repeat  texts 
of  Scripture,  William  evidently  received  no  benefit — there 
was  not  the  look  and  movement  of  eager  assent,  which  in- 
variably followed  when  Charles  or  I  expressed  in  our  own 
words  our  own  convictions.  A  remarkable  instance  was 
this — I  had  repeated  the  words  of  our  Saviour  to  the 
penitent  upon  the  cross,  and  William  did  not  seem  to 
attend.  A  few  minutes  after,  Charles  said  to  him,  '  Mind 
that,  William,— our  Saviour  said  To-day: — immediately, 
without  any  interval  of  time,  when  this  agony  is  over,  you 
will  be  transported  to  His  blessed  presence,  if  you  do  but 
believe  in  His  atonement,  if  you  do  but  trust  alone  in  His 
intercession : '  and  then  William  turned  his  head  and 
eyes  with  the  greatest  animation,  as  if  he  was  imbibing  a 
cordial  from  every  word.  I  mention  this  because  every- 
thing that  marks  a  state  of  mind  is  interesting  to  my 
Mother." 

"Albano,  16  July,  1821. — My  precious  Mary  has  been 
very  ill — but  is  mending  daily." 

" 28  July. — My  Mother,  I  wish  I  knew  how  to  persuade 


180         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

you  that  I  am  a  stock  or  a  stone,  and  that  I  do  not  feel ! — 
It  has  pleased  God  to  take  my  Mary  from  me : — could  I 
but  spare  you  the  pain  these  words  will  occasion ! 

"  On  Sunday,  the  22nd  of  July,  her  birthday,  at  noon — 
she  ceased  to  breathe,  and  seemed  not  to  suffer : — and  from 
that  hour,  my  Mother,  my  agony  has  been  abating — God 
has  supported  me,  0  how  has  He  supported  me !  in  body 
and  mind.  For  the  last  four  days  of  her  life,  besides  the 
anguish  of  perceiving  that  I  was  to  lose  her,  I  feared  to 
become  distracted  at  the  thought  that  I  had  brought  her 
to  this  state,  by  venturing  to  wean  her :  but  it  is  the  signal 
mercy  of  God  which  has  removed  from  me  the  sting  of 
that  reflection,— -of  myself  I  had  no  power  to  quiet  my  own 
mind,  as  it  is  quieted.  The  meditations  of  every  hour,  on 
what  she  was,  and  on  the  circumstances  that  preceded  her 
dissolution,  strengthen  me  in  the  conviction  that  she  was 
not  made  for  this  world,  and  that  no  adequate  cause  can 
be  found  for  the  sudden  decay  of  all  her  vital  powers, 
except  that  it  was  the  good  pleasure  of  God  to  remove  her 
from  sin,  and  sorrow,  and  suffering,  to  early  blessed- 
ness, after  a  life  of  undisturbed  enjoyment  during  eleven 
months,  and  during  the  twelfth  month  of  gradual  decline, 
with  but  little  pain,  for  she  never  cried,  and  rarely  uttered 
a  sound  of  complaint.  She  gently  made  her  wants  to  be 
understood,  which  were  to  drink,  and  to  be  carried  about ; 
— and  gently,  without  fretfulness,  rejected  what  she  would 
not  have,  waving  her  sweet  hand,  and  turning  away  her 
lovely  head.  A  rapid  loss  of  flesh,  and  an  indescribable 
melancholy  from  the  very  beginning,  were  signs  of  a 
degree  of  illness  to  which  no  other  signs  adequately  cor- 
responded, and  these  indications  of  danger  weighed  upon 


SHADOWS.  181 


my  heart,  and  prevented  from  the  very  first  my  entertain- 
ing; a  real  hope  or  anticipation  of  seeing  her  again  as  she 

was   before I  have   written  without  a  tear,  my 

Mother ;  I  will  now  give  some  details,  as  many  as  I  can, 
which  will  cost  me  more : — to  my  Mother  it  will  be  a 
solace  to  know  all : — 0  did  I  but  know  how  to  prevent  at 
least  the  bodily  suffering  which  her  sorrow  for  me  will 
cause! 

"I  have  been  helped  and  supported  in  every  way. 
What  my  Charles  is  to  me,  my  Mother  now  knows,  as  well 
as  anybody  besides  myself  can  know : — and  the  servants 
have  done  all  they  could,  with  all  their  hearts.  My 
Mother  will  guess,  from  the  manner  in  which  I  have  ever 
been  served  by  Angelina,  what  she  has  done  and  felt  for 
me  now :  and  Maddalena,  a  widow-woman,  who  has  for 
nine  months  faithfully  tended  Ernest,  has  if  possible  felt 
more,  as  being  a  mother,  and  having  lost  five  children, 
for  none  of  which  I  am  convinced  could  she  have  grieved 
more  than  she  has  grieved  for  mine ;  the  manservant  Fran- 
cesco has  children  of  his  own,  and  has  therefore  known 

how  to  help  me,  as  well  as  wished  to  help  me It 

was  very  good  for  me,  my  Mother,  to  have  a  great  deal  to 
do  for  my  boys,  in  the  course  of  their  blessed  sister's  ill- 
ness, especially  for  Henry  in  his  threatenings  of  fever ; 
had  I  not  been  compelled  at  intervals  to  attend  to  other 
things,  to  behold  other  objects  than  her  angel  countenance, 
how  could  I  have  prevented  sinking  under  the  continuance 
of  bodily  emotion. 

"  For  two  hours  at  least  before  she  breathed  her  last — 
perhaps  more,  for  I  knew  not  how  to  reckon  the  time — I 
perceived  what  before  I  could  not  acknowledge  to  myself, 


182         LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUN  SEN. 

that  the  moment  was  near  at  hand;  before  that  time,  1 
had  the  bed  on  which  she  lay  carried  into  another  room, 
where  the  air  was  fresher.  She  looked  up,  and  around, 
with  full  intelligence,  and  was  evidently  aware  of  the 
change  of  scene.  Before  this,  I  had  kissed  her  cheek,  it 
was  the  last  time ;  I  had  seldom  kissed  her  before  in  the 
last  days,  I  could  not  do  so  without  a  burst*  of  sobbing, 
which  it  was  my  duty  to  avoid.  I  put  my  Ernest  to  sleep, 
and  laid  him  at  the  foot  of  her  bed.  I  then  gave  my 
Henry  his  bark,  and  as  a  reward  for  taking  it  well,  was 
bound  to  take  him  in  my  lap.  I  sate  by  her  bed  :  J 
glanced  my  eye  from  to  time,  and  at  length  perceived  a 
change  of  tinge  which  warned  me  not  to  look  again. 
Maddalena  continued  to  moisten  her  lips.  The*  physician 
entered  and  asked  me  how  she  did.  I  answered  according' 
to  my  conviction.  After  a  moment  Maddalena  supplicated 
me  to  leave  the  room, — I  understood  her  and  knelt  down  by 
the  bed :  in  another  moment  all  was  over,  without  sound, 
without  struggle.  I  knelt  there  sometime  longer,  all  the 
servants  knelt  with  me — then,  I  went  into  the  next  room, 
and  left  her  whom  I  had  never  left,  to  Maddalena  and 
Angelina — I  dared  not  remain,  dared  not  look  upon  her. 

' '  It  was  my  Charles's  severer  trial  not  to  be  present.  The 
two  preceding  days  he  had  been  bound  to  labour  inces- 
santly at  Borne  with  Mr.  Niebuhr.  All  would  nevertheless 
have  been  left,  however  at  another  time  necessary,  had  he 
known  the  real  state  of  his  child, — but  it  was  a  cruel 
circumstance,  that  I  had  written  him  word  of  material 
amendment  on  Saturday  morning,  for  so  it  seemed — some 
animation  had  returned,  she  had  taken  food,  her  thirst 
had  abated,  she  was  not  restless,  she  had  slept  so  sound 


SHADOWS. 


183 


for  many  hours !  But  from  four  o'clock,  when  the  letter 
was  sent,  it  became  plain,  even  to  me,  that  the  remainder 
of  life  would  only  be  measured  by  hours — although  how 
many  hours,  my  inexperience  disenabled  me  from  calcu- 
lating. By  the  peculiar  mercy  of  God,  I  never  felt  like 
many  mothers  in  affliction,  that  I  could  not  bear  the  sight 
of  my  remaining  children, — on  the  contrary,  it  comforted 
me.  Not  long  after  their  blessed  sister  was  at  peace,  it 
was  time  for  them  to  have  their  dinners,  and  they  dined  at 
the  table  near  which  I  sat,  and  watched  them.  When  the 
heat  of  the  day  had  abated,  I  put  on  their  tippets  to  walk 
out  with  Francesco  and  Annunziata :  I  myself  went  with 
Angelina  on  the  road  towards  Borne,  to  meet  my  poor 
Charles:  Maddalena  remained  watching  by  her  who  no 
longer  needed  any  of  our  care. 

"That  night,  my  Mother,  I  did  not  sleep,  but  I  lay  in 
peace,  thinking  of  her,  who  was  perhaps  near  me,  though 
unseen.  The  next  day,  I  was  seized  with  a  craving  to 
look  at  her,  which  however  I  would  not  gratify  unknown 
to  my  Charles,  and  he  dissuaded  me :  he  was  right.  That 
afternoon  I  drove  out  with  him  and  the  children  to  Ariccia; 
— when  I  returned,  I  wanted  again  to  see  her — and  heard 
that  she  was  enclosed.  0  in  this  climate,  it  gives  an  addi- 
tional pang,  that  all  must  so  soon  be  over — that  all,  that 
little,  that  can  be  done ! 

"The  next  day,  Tuesday  the  24th,  I  left  my  Henry  and 

Ernest  for  the  first  time,  and  went  with  Charles  to  Borne— 

our  angel  was  before  us,  but  we  could  not  see  her.    After 

the  first  pang  was  over,  I  passed  the  drive  in  great  peace. 

W0  approached  Borne  by  the  gate  of  St.  Sebastian,  then 

dtf™  without  the  walls  to  the  gate  of  St  Paul,  close  to 


184         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

the  pyramid  of  Caius  Cestius ;  it  was  within  an  hour  of 
sunset,  rather  before  the  time  fixed,  which  was  good  for 
me.  I  walked  up  and  down  on  the  grass,  and  afterwards 
sat  under  a  tree ;  then  advanced  with  Charles  towards  the 
spot.  Schmieder  (my  mother  knows  the  name  of  the  chap- 
lain to  the  Embassy)  advanced  to  meet  us.  He  said, 
turning  to  me — '  The  Lord  support  you.'  I  said,  '  He  has 
supported  me.'  He  said  again,  'Let  not  your  faith  fail 
and  His  grace  will  never  fail.'  I  repeated — '  He  has  been 
all-gracious  to  me.'  We  came  to  the  spot :  to  see  the  bier, 
the  grave,  was  very  bad.  Schmieder  began  to  speak,  and 
as  he  proceeded,  I  breathed  easier;  he  said  only  what  I 
knew  before,  but  it  struck  me  with  new  force,  and  all 
pangs  abated  as  he  uttered  the  prayers.  His  wife  strewed 
flowers,  and  then  the  earth  was  cast — I  thought  I  could 
not  have  borne  that,  but  before  it  was  finished  the  words 
of  the  angel  to  the  apostles  struck  me — '  Why  seek  ye  the 
living  among  the  dead  ?  He  is  not  here ! ' — and  I  looked 
no  longer  down,  but  looked  up  into  the  clear  sky,  and 
again  I  was  at  peace.  Then,  I  turned  to  depart,  and  was 
again  overcome  by  the  sight  of  Mr.  Niebuhr;  with  emotion 
that  I  shall  never  forget — he,  who  is  so  often  complained 
of  for  not  showing  emotion,  after  taking  our  hands,  threw 
himself  down,  to  touch  the  earth  that  covered  her — then 
came  with  us  to  the  carriage,  inquired  after  Henry  and 
Ernest,  and  supplicated  Charles  not  to  leave  me,  saying  if 
there  was  business,  what  he  could  not  despatch  alone, 
should  wait.  I  had  not  expected  to  see  him;  he  had 
already  written  to  us,  expressing  from  himself  and  his 
wife  such  grief,  that  I  thought,  considering  their  weak 
state  of  health,  each  would  work  upon  the  other  to  stay 


SHADOWS.  185 


away  from  a  scene  too  agitating.  I  went  with  Charles  to 
oar  empty  house.  Schmieder  come,  and  we  both  felt  we 
could  let  him  in :  then  I  went  to  bed,  and  slept — I  was 
much  exhausted :  before  daybreak  I  waked,  and  thought 
of  my  angel,  in  peace.  Next  day,  between  six  and  seven 
o'clock,  Schmieder  was  again  waiting  to  see  us :  then  we 
drove  away,  and  returned  to  our  darling  boys. 

"  My  Mother,  the  paper  is  almost  at  an  end,  and  I  have 
yet  much  to  tell  you — but  I  must  leave  some  room,  that 
you  may  have  a  line  from  my  dearest,  my  best.  0  there 
is  no  word  to  convey  what  my  Charles  is ! — I  will  write 
again  soon,  and  in  the  meantime,  fear  not  for  me.  I  am 
in  a  state  of  bodily  health  and  strength  6uch  as  you  could 
scarcely  imagine  possible — and  my  mind  is  in  peace ;  the 
sting  of  her  death  is  removed  from  me ;  nothing  remains, 
but  that  which  will  ever  remain ; — she  is  ever  before  me — 
every  circumstance  relating  to  her  passes  in  unceasing  suc- 
cession before  my  mind;  her  loveliness  in  health! — her 
heavenliness  in  sickness !  I  desired  Angelina  to  cut  off 
her  hair,  and  keep  it  for  me — some  time  I  will  send  you  a 
bit.  I  do  not  yet  trust  myself  to  look  at  it,  nor  at  her  clothes 
— Angelina  has  concealed  all  from  me.  Adieu,  my  dearest, 
dearest  Mother !  Pray  for  me  that  the  grace  of  God  fail 
not  to  support  me  in  the  resolutions  formed  in  the  hour  of 
sorrow ! " 

BtiNSEN  to  Mrs.  Waddington. 

"  0  my  dear  Mother,  that  you  could  be  a  moment  pre- 
sent to  see  yourself  how  wonderfully  P.  is  supported  by 
God :  nobody  can  believe  it,  who  has  not  seen  it — nobody, 
I  mean,  who  knows  how  to  appreciate  her  loss,  who  has 


186         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

seen  her  sufferings,  her  grief,  her  despair,  and  her  moments 
of  agony.  ....  0  this  angel  was  beautiful,  lovely,    in 
death  as  she  was  in  life,  only  with  that  expression  of  quiet 
suffering  which  never  left  her  face  in  the  last  six  weeks. 
It  was  harder  than  anything  that  I  could  not  be  with  her, 
kneel  by  her  bed  and  gaze  on  her,  only  a  few  stolen 
moments !    0  dearest  loveliest  face,  0  mild  angelic  coun- 
tenance!   now  I  have  felt  what  it  means  that  a  pure 
spirit  returns  to  God  to  be  a  ministering  angel  to  Him. 
There  is  no  pain,  no  grief  in  my  heart,  but  a  longing, 
an  irresistibly  alluring  attraction  to  think  of  her,  to  look 
up  to  her,  to  pray  to  be  with  her!    It  has  been  only- 
after  her  death  that  I  have  told  F.  how  often,   parti- 
cularly in  the  last  six  months  of  her  health,  I  have 
pressed  her  to  my  heart,  and  given  her  suddenly  away 
because  I  felt  we  could  not  keep  her,  because  I  felt  I  loved 
her  too  much,  far  beyond  any  other  love,  and  because  she 
was  too  like  an  angel,  in  beauty  and  loveliness  and  still 
more  in  every  glance  of  her  soul.    You  could  not  give  her 
any  particular  character — lively,  serious,  sanguine,  melan- 
choly, she  was  nothing  but  love  and  loveliness." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Tier  Mother. 

" AlbatWy  4  August,  1821. — My  mind  is  tranquil  now, 
and  I  seldom  or  ever  shed  a  tear.  I  employ  myself  in 
everything  as  usual,  without  effort,  and  the  only  thing'  X 
cannot  do,  is  to  speak  of  her — the  thought  is  ever  present, 
but  will  not  bear  utterance.  We  have  here  a  very  de- 
lightful sitting-room,  where  my  preoious  boys  play  about, 
and  run  on  the  balcony  to  look  at  the  carts  and  asses  and 
mules,  that  pass  along  the  street,  while  I  sit  working*  or 


SHADOWS.  187 


setting  work  on  a  small  bed  that  is  arranged  as  a  couch. 
At  twelve  o'clock  the  boys  have  their  dinner  and  after- 
wards sleep.  I  then  dine,  and  lie  down  for  an  hour,  either 
to  read  or  to  sleep.  When  the  heat  of  the  day  is  past,  we 
walk  out ;  my  favourite  walk  is  the  Villa  Barberini,  which 
I  think  my  Mother  never  saw*  We  return  home  at  sunset, 
my  boys  sup,  and  before  I  go  to  bed,  I  write  out  something 
for  my  Charles,  when  he  is  not  here, — when  he  is,  he  reads 
tome. 

"  From  the  time  my  child  expired,  it  has  become  more 
and  more  clear  to  me  that  she  was  never  intended  for  me, 
or  for  this  world:  she  was,  in  soul  and  body,  too  perfect 
to  dwell  here.  I  may  believe  myself  competent  to  judge 
of  the  comparative  merits  of  children,  because  I  have  two 
others,  who  always  were  very  dear,  and  very  engaging : 
bat  from  the  first  they  gave  signs  of  human  passions, 
human  imperfections,  which  she  never  did, — always  con- 
tented, always  happy,  though  with  more  animation,  more 
intelligence,  than  I  ever  saw  in  any  other  child.  No  words 
can  convey  an  idea  of  her  sweetness,  her  affection  to  her 
parents,  more  especially  to  me.  I  can  for  ever  feel  her  arms 
clinging  round  my  neck,  her  face  pressed  against  me — 0 ! 
blessed  be  God  for  having  granted  her  to  me,  though  for 
so  short  a  time ! — nobody  that  has  not  had  such  a  child 
can  conceive  the  joy  she  was — and  there  is  no  joy  in  this 
world  to  be  purchased  without  pain,  the  one  exquisite  in 

proportion  to  the  other I  have  wished,  my  Mother, 

since  I  lost  my  angel,  more  keenly  than  ever,  that  you  had 
seen  her,  but  then  I  have  felt  that  it  is  better  as  it  is ; — 
you  grieve  for  me,  0  I  know  how  you  grieve  for  me !  but 
had  you  seen  her,  you  would  so  have  loved  her,  so  have  fed 


188         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUKSEX. 

upon  the  sight  of  her,  that  you  would  have  had  a  weight 
of  affliction  more  in  her  death,  and  you  have  already 
afflictions  enough." 

On  the  4th  of  November,  the  feast  of  S.  Carlo 
Borromeo,  described  by  Bunsen  as  "  the  most  venerable 
of  all  modern  saints,  and  one  of  the  most  respectable  of 
them  altogether/'  the  birth  of  Charles  Bunsen  brought 
back  something  of  sunshine  to  the  sorrow-stricken 
household.  The  extreme  sympathy  and  interest  shown 
by  the  Niebuhrs  at  this  time,  as  well  as  after  the  death 
of  Mary,  made  Madame  Bunsen  most  anxious  to  efface 
any  unfavourable  impression  she  might  have  imprinted 
on  her  mother's  mind  at  an  earlier  period  of  her  inter- 
course with  them. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

11 12  Dec,  1821.— Till  I  have  accomplished  the  point  I 
am  quite  sure  of  accomplishing — getting  my  Mother 
thoroughly  to  understand,  and  value,  and  admire  Mr. 
Niebuhr,  which  she  cannot  do  till  she  is  possessed  of  facts, 
and  details,  and  explanations,  that  can  never  be  thoroughly 
given  by  letter, — she  cannot  conceive  the  pleasure  I  ex- 
perienced from  the  indescribable  kindness  with  which  he 
greeted  and  congratulated  me  after  the  birth  of  my 
child." 

"  New  Year* *  Day,  1822. — The  first  year  of  severe  trial 
that  I  ever  passed,  is  closed, — and  I  begin  the  new  year  in 
comfort  of  body  and  mind,  such  as  I  never  before  experi- 
enced ; — confidence,  that  if  tried,  I  shall  be  supported,  as  I 


SHADOWS.  189 


have  been.  I  might  have  known  before,  and  indeed  I 
ever  have  known,  that  it  is  impossible  with  God  to  inflict 
that  which  it  is  impossible  to  bear ;  but  to  have  had  expe- 
rience of  those  supplies  of  strength  from  above  which  I  know 
to  be  promised  to  all  those  who  crave  them,  is  of  more 
avail  to  tranquillize  the  spirit  than  any  degree  of  belief. 
My  own  dearest  Mother,  Heaven  only  knows  whether  I 
shall  be  with  you,  or  still  at  Borne,  at  the  close  of  this 
year!  and  I  am  satisfied  that  circumstances,  that  is  to  say, 
Providence,  alone  can  decide  our  plans — beforehand,  it  is 
impossible  to  resolve,  or  even  to  form  a  wish,  where  the 
dangers  and  difficulties  are  so  evident  on  either  side. 

"  Most  truly  do  I  thank  my  Mother  for  the  gifts  she  has 
sent  to  Mrs.  Niebuhr.  She  is  indeed  very  kind  to  me,  and 
I  am  sure  of  her  regard.  I  do  not  think  I  have  ever  men- 
tioned how  much  I  was  affected  by  her  manner  of  greeting 
me  on  our  first  meeting  after  my  return  to  Borne  at  the 
time  of  Charles's  great  danger.  There  was  a  warmth,  an 
animation  of  kindness  and  sympathy  that  I  did  not  expect 
from  her,  however  greatly  and  continually  her  character 
has  gained  upon  me,  in  proportion  as  I  became  more 
acquainted  with  it ; — and  it  was  not  a  sudden  feeling,  an 
emotion  of  compassion,  that  was  roused  in  her,  for  I  have 
experienced  in  degree  the  same  manner,  and  observed  the 
same  expression  of  countenance,  every  time  that  we  have 
met  since." 

"21  Jan.,  1822. — To  show  my  Mother  how  well  I  am,  I 
must  tell  of  the  beautiful  walk  we  took  yesterday,  with 
all  the  dear  children,  and  she  will  be  able  to  judge  by 
looking  at  the  map  of  Borne  of  my  strength,  and  that  of 
Henry,  who  walked  every  step  of  the  way — but  of  the 


190        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

strength  of  Ernest,  who  walked  three-quarters  of  the  dis- 
tance, she  could  not  judge,  without  feeling  the  weight  he 
has  to  carry — 0  if  she  could  but  feel  it!  I  know  she 
would  delight  in  his  size,  however  little  able  to  lift  him ;  it 
is  as  much  as  I  can  do  to  raise  him  from  the  ground, 
although  when  he  is  once  up,  I  can  carry  him  very  well  on 
my  back. 

"  "We  went  to  the  church  of  6.  Pietro  Montorio  on  the 
Janiculan,  passing  over  the  bridge  Quattro  Capi, — the  nurse 
carried  little  Charles,  who  sat  up  and  looked  about  him  all 
that  distance.  Henry  and  Ernest  walked  like  men,  the 
former  with  his  mother,  the  latter  between  his  father  and 
Angelina,  haying  need  of  two  hands  to  pull  him  on.  After 
looking  at  the  prospect,  which  was  indescribably  magnifi- 
cent, in  the  finest  possible  weather,  and  going  into  the 
church,  we  proceeded  to  the  Fontana  Paolina,  which 
extremely  delighted  the  children,  and  the  nurse  not  less, 
and  then  to  the  top  of  the  hill,  where  we  went  out  at  the 
gate  of  S.  Pancrazio,  and  returned  down  the  hill  on  the 
outside  of  the  walls,  re-entered  Borne  at  the  Porta  Portese, 
and  came  by  Bipa  Grande,  and  Ponte  Quattro  Capi,  home. 
"  Mr.  Brandis  was  married  on  the  2nd  of  September." 
"Feb.  13, 1822. — On  Monday  morning  I  went  with  Charles 
to  Thorwaldsen's  studio.  I  had  not  been  for  an  age,  and 
I  saw,  with  wonder  and  admiration,  his  statue  of  our 
Saviour — the  most  difficult  object,  without  doubt,  that  he 
ever  attempted,  and  one  of  the  most  remarkable  proofs  of 
his  inexhaustible  genius.  It  was  not  till  two  years  ago 
that  he  ever  executed  a  religious  subject,  and  then,  in  com- 
pliance with  the  wishes  of  the  Crown  Prince  of  Bavaria,  he 
made  a  design  for  a  bas-relief  of  the  three  Marys  at  the 


SHADOWS.  191 


Sepulchre  which  was  a  complete  failure,  and  he  himself 
felt  it  to  be  such,  and  spoke  in  a  tone  of  despair  of  the 
whole  undertaking.  Since  that  time  he  has  been  travel- 
ling, and  doing  nothing — but  has  meditated  till  he  has 
comprehended  the  characteristics  of  that  religion :  the  spirit 
of  which  he  alas !  has  never  imbibed ;  and  the  result  has 
been  the  execution  of  colossal  statues  of  Christ,' of  St.  Paul 
and  St.  Peter,  in  a  style  that  his  best  friends  amongst  judges 
of  the  art  never  expected  him  to  be  able  to  acquire.  The 
church  in  Copenhagen  in  which  these  statues  are  to  be 
placed  is  to  be  built  in  the  form  of  a  basilica — that  is  to 
say,  like  S.  Paolo  fuori  le  Mura — only  not  so  large  by 
many  degrees.  In  front  is  to  be  a  portico  like  that  at  the 
Pantheon,,  and  on  the  pediment  is  to  be  a  bas-relief  of  the 
Baptist  preaching  in  the  Wilderness,  of  which  Thorwald- 
een  is  to  make  the  design,  and  which  he  wishes  to  have 
executed  in  terra-cotta,  a  material  more  endurable  than 
marble  when  exposed  to  the  weather.  In  the  inside  of  the 
church,  in  the  centre  of  the  tribune,  or  semicircular  apse  at 
the  opposite  extremity  to  the  entrance,  is  to  be  placed  the 
colossal  statue  of  our  Saviour,  and  in  niches  in  the  side- 
walls  of  the  church,  statues  of  the  twelve  apostles,  also  of 
colossal  dimensions.  Thorwaldsen  explains  his  own  inten- 
tion to  kave  been  to  represent  our  Saviour  as  recalling  to 
the  minds  of  his  disciples  in  all  ages  what  He  had  done 
and  suffered  for  them,  and  inviting  them  to  come  to  Him : 
and  dreading  the  appearance  of  the  smallest  degree  of 
theatrical  effect,  he  aimed  at  the  utmost  simplicity  of  atti- 
tude ;  the  head  is  bent  forwards,  the  arms  are  gently  raised 
and  extended  on  each  side,  one  hand  neither  higher  nor 
lover,  neither  more  nor  less  stretched  out  than  the  other; 


192         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

so  that  If  the  consummation  of  ease,  grace,  and  majesty  had 
not  been  attained,  the  figure  must  be  stiff  and  unmeaning 
The  countenance  is  very,  very  fine — to  call  it  quite  satis- 
factory would  be  saying  too  much,  but  what  representa- 
tion of  our  Saviour  could  be  so  ? — to  my  feelings,  this  head 
of  Thorwaldsen's  is  the  finest  with  which  I  am  acquainted, 
except  that  by  Raphael  in  the  '  Disputa.'*    Of  other  new 
things  I  was  best  pleased  with  a  bas-relief  representing 
Nemesis  reading  to  Jove  from  a  scroll  the  record  of  human 
actions — he  listens  till  his  wrath  kindles,  and  he  is  pre- 
paring to  cast  the  thunderbolt.    I  saw  executed  in  marble 
the  Mercury,  and  the  Hope,  which  I  had  seen  long  ago  in 
clay ;  I  am  sure  that  the  Mercury  is  the  finest  of  Thor- 
waldsen's works. 

"  After  Thorwaldsen's  sculpture  in  the  morning,  and  an 
historical-philosophical-poetical  discussion  with  Kestner  in 
the  afternoon,  how  do  you  think  we  spent  the  evening? 
In  seeing  the  Puppet-show,  at  the  theatre  under  Palazzo 
Piano — and  indeed,  nothing  could  be  better  of  its  kind. 
Mr.  Pertzf  accompanied  us,  a  friend  of  Baron  Stein,  whom 
we  very  much  like. 

*  Thorwaldsen  believed  himself  to  have  reached  the  climax  of  his 
powers  in  his  statue  of  Christ.  "I  never  was  satisfied/'  he  said, 
44  with  any  work  of  my  own  till  I  executed  the  Christ— and  with  that, 
I  am  alarmed  to  find  that  I  am  satisfied ;  therefore,  on  the  way 
towards  decay." 

t  George  Henry  Pertz  was  agent  to  the  association  established  by 
Baron  Stein  for  discovering  and  collecting  unpublished  materials  of 
German  history.  In  this  cause,  to  the  end  of  his  life,  he  edited 
"  Monumenta  Historic  Germanicse."  He  also  wrote  the  Life  of  Stein. 
He  was  director  of  the  archives  at  Hanover,  and  afterwards  principal 
librarian  at  Berlin.  His  second  wife  was  Leonora,  daughter  of  Leonard 
Horner  the  historian.  He  died  in  1876. 


SHADOWS.  193 


"  On  Tuesday  morning  I  went  to  see  a  large  cartoon  by 
one  of  the  three  friends  who  lodge  oyer  us,  Julius  Schnorr 
yon  Carolsf eld.  The  design  of  the  cartoon  in  question  is 
from  Ariosto,  and  is  to  make  part  of  a  series  of  paintings  in 
fresco  in  a  room  of  the  Villa  Giustiniani,  opposite  the  La- 
tcran  Palace,  belonging  to  the  Marchese  Massimo — the  same 
villa  in  which  Overbook  is  painting  from  Tasso,  and  Yeit 
(the  son  of  Madame  Schlegel)  from  Dante.  Schnorr' s  car- 
toon is  admirable,  and  I  have  indescribable  satisfaction  in 
anticipating  his  complete  success  in  this  great  undertaking; 
for  I  have  lately  been  sorry  to  see  him  entirely  employed 
in  executing  subjects  to  which  his  powers  are  not  suited. 
It  is  the  fashion  at  present  to  give  orders  for  nothing  but 
paintings  d  la  Eaphael — Madonnas,  Magdalens,  &c, — and 
that  in  a  style  in  which  it  is  not  granted  to  all  those  who 
know  how  to  paint,  to  succeed.  Correctness  in  drawing 
the  human  figure,  infinite  variety  of  conception  in'  the 
representation  of  the  human  countenance,  great  skill  in 
grouping  figures  and  still  life,  the  liveliest  fancy  in  the 
disposition  of  ornaments,  such  as  draperies,  trees,  flowers, 
fountains  and  buildings — and  more  especially,  the  power 
of  colouring  with  force,  brilliancy,  and  delicacy — to  this 
rare  combination  of  merits  Schnorr  lays  undoubted  claim, 
but  where  sublimity  of  expression  is  required,  he  degrades 
the  subject  by  theatrical  sentimentality — and  the  only  con- 
solation for  his  friends  is  that  he  has  sufficient  under- 
standing and  taste  to  be  aware  of  his  failure." 

"  17  April,  1822.— The  Pope  (Pius  VII.)  did  not  give  the 
Benediction  on  Easter  Sunday,  nor  is  he  ever  likely  to  give  it 
again ;  his  strength  does  not  return,  and  it  is  believed  his 
vital  powers  are  worn  out.    It  was  on  Easter  Sunday  that 

vol.  t.  o 


194         LIFE   AND  LETTERS    OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

I  first  related  to  my  darling  Henry  the  story  of  our  Saviour's 
life,  and  sufferings,  and  resurrection : — and  I  shall  never 
forget  the  manner  in  which  he  listened,  clinging  to  me 
closer  and  closer,  and  looking  up  in  my  face  as  if  he  feared 
to  lose  a  word.  It  was  a  natural  transition  to  tell  him  of 
his  sister,  and  of  the  state  of  the  blessed ;  and  he  promised 
that  he  would  be  good,  that  he  might  go  to  '  Gesu  Cristo.' " 

"17  June, — I  hope  that  the  Princess  of  Denmark  (I 
mean  the  wife  of  the  Hereditary  Prince)  is  admired  in 
England,  and  I  should  be  much  surprised  if  she  was  not, 
for  her  person  and  demeanour  appeared  to  me  peculiarly 
admirable.  I  thought  her  very  English,  but  remind- 
ing one  of  pictures  rather  than  of  life,  of  those  times  when 
the  character  of  the  face  seemed  to  be  communicated  to  the 
dress,  not  when  individuality  was  lost  in  fashion.  She 
used  at  Borne  to  dress  her  beautiful  chestnut-coloured  hair 
like  Sacharissa,  but  had  not  features  as  regular :  the  tone 
of  her  voice  is  indescribably  melodious,  and  her  manner  of 
speaking  as  agreeable  as  possible.  She  is  not  happy  in 
her  marriage,  her  husband  being  good  for  little  or  nothing, 
and  appearing  quite  indifferent  to  her,  attractive  as  she  is, 
now  that  she  is  no  longer  a  novelty :  though  he  married 
her  for  what  is  called  love ;  and  she  has  hitherto  longed  in 
vain  for  the  charm  a  child  would  give  to  her  existence, 
submitting  with  a  good  grace  to  what  she  feels  to  be  so 
empty  and  joyless  as  a  life  of  representation.  When  Mrs. 
Niebuhr  at  her  command  brought  her  children  to  show 
her,  she  watched  them  at  play  with  the  most  animated 
delight,  but  at  length  burst  into  tears,  saying  that  sbe 
envied  everyone  that  had  a  child. 

"  At  a  ball  at  Madame  Appony's  the  winter  before  last, 


SHADOWS. 


195 


I  was  mortified  to  compare  the  Princess  of  Denmark, 
Therese  de  Stein,  and  a  Milanese  Donna  Camilla  Falco- 
nieri,  with  the  Englishwomen  who  were  there,  although 
many  of  them  were  very  pretty,  in  particular  two  Miss 
Howards,  but  with  such  a  want  of  individuality,  that  I 
should  be  at  a  loss  to  recognise  their  faces  again.  I  have 
often  attentively  contemplated  the  profile  of  Therese  de 
Stein,*  in  the  hope  of  recalling  it,  to  be  able  to  send  it  to 
my  mother,  but  it  is  no  easy  undertaking,  and  it  would  at 
last  give  no  idea  of  her  brilliant  dark  eyes,  or  of  the  fine 
muscles,  or,  more  properly  speaking,  as  yet  dimples,  of  her 
mouth.  I  shall  wish,  but  almost  fear,  to  see  ten  years 
hence  what  expression  these  muscles  have  assumed.  As 
yet  her  countenance  has  only  a  general  cast  of  seriousness, 
although  a  capability  of  any  expression.  I  should  say 
that  she  has  already  been  able  to  form  a  sufficient  notion 
of  trial,  to  prevent  the  most  disfiguring  of  all  appearances, 
that  of  disappointment :  and  although  with  youth,  health, 
beauty,  riches,  the  consciousness  of  being  the  delight  of  her 
father's  life,  and  the  only  person  who  has  any  influence 
over  him,  it  might  be  said  she  must  be  too  happy,  she  has  a 
source  of  trial  near  to  her  who  must  successfully  '  dash  her 
cup  of  brilliant  joy.'  ....  It  might  seem  strange  to  write 
such  a  number  of  details  of  a  person  my  Mother  never  saw, 
but  it  seldom  happens  to  me  to  see  anything  that  I  feel  sure 
would  meet  with  my  Mother's  unqualified  approbation." 

"  12  Sept.,  1822. — Charles  is  not  able  to  write  to  you,  as 
ho  must  dine  with  Prince  Henry  of  Prussia.!  That  per- 
sonage I  have  never  before  named,  yet  he  has  lived  in 

*  Afterwards  Countess  Kielmannsegge. 

t  Younger  brother  of  King  Frederick  William  III. 


196         LIFE  AXD   LFITERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Borne  ever  since  the  Neapolitan  revolution,  and  certainly 
merits  mention  from  singularity.  His  manner  of  life  is 
absolute  retirement,  shutting  himself  up  with  his  books, 
and  not  seeing  any  of  his  attendants  except  at  dinner,  when 
it  may  be  his  pleasure  to  dine,  but  that  is  not  his  pleasure 
oftener  than  three  times  a  week,  when  he  dines  very  . 
heartily;  the  intermediate  days  he  takes  nothing  but  a  dish 
of  strong  coffee  and  a  mouthful  of  bread,  though  wherefore 
he  follows  this  plan,  it  has  never  pleased  him  to  explain. 
Sometimes  he  never  stirs  out  of  the  house  for  three  months, 
and  afterwards  takes  a  fit  of  walking.  He  had  the  latter 
fit  all  this  summer,  and  chose  the  hours  between  twelve 
and  three  for  his  exercise,  probably  because  at  that  time 
of  day  he  was  certain  not  to  meet  so  much  as  a  cat  stirring 
abroad,  that  could  possibly  find  shelter  within  doors.  He 
often  gives  dinners,  and  listens  to  conversation  with  fixed 
attention,  showing  approbation  and  disapprobation,  but 
rarely  uttering  more  than  a  monosyllable ;  he  once  called 
on  Mr.  Niebuhr,  on  his  arrival  in  Home,  but  has  never 
called  on  anybody  else,  except  Cardinal  Consalvi,  and  has 
never  summoned  resolution  to  visit  the  Pope.  He  is  a  man 
of  great  learning,  and  understands  a  great  many  languages. 
He  has  a  universal  interest  in  political  affairs,  and  takes  in 
newspapers  from  England,  France,  and  Spain,  as  well  as 
Germany :  he  has  served  with  distinction  in  the  army,  and 
is  said  never  to  have  recovered  his  spirits  since  he  was 
refused  a  particular  command  he  had  wished  to  have  in 
the  last  war.  He  is  advantageously  distinguished  among 
German  princes  by  liberality  in  money-matters,  pensioning 
persons  that  had  been  in  his  service  at  any  part  of  life,  or 
in  any  place ;  always  giving,  when  a  claim  is  made  upon 


SHADOWS.  197 


him,  more  than  could  have  been  expected  of  him,  and 
being  very  careful  at  the  same  time  to  pay  his  debts.  His 
dinners,  as  may  easily  be  supposed,  are  a  great  penance, 

but  Charles,  although  he  would  wish  to  avoid  his  presence, 

says  it  is  impossible  to  help  feeling  a  degree  of  attachment 

to  his  person. 
"Ernest  has  just  asked  me — ( Chi  ti  ha  dato  questo  pane 

tanto  buono  mama — Iddio  o  Nonna  ? '  " 

Bunsen  was  first  brought  into  personal  contact  with 
his  sovereign  during  a  visit  which  the  King  of  Prussia 
paid  to  Rome  with  his  two  younger  sons,  in  the  autumn 
of  1822.  General  Witzleben,  the  confidential  aide-de- 
camp who  accompanied  the  King  on  this  occasion,  had 
t**tt  especially  employed  and  consulted  in  the  construc- 
"°a  of  the  liturgy  which,  by  the  King's  desire,  was 
then  in  use  at  Berlin.  To  him  Niebuhr  spoke  of 
^unsen's  studies  and  interest  in  the  matter,  and  his 
^^ttnications  to  his  royal  master  led  to  intimate 
WflYersations  at  the  time  on  the  subject  which  both 
had  so  deeply  at  heart ;  and  thus  laid  the  foundation 
0f  a  mutually  affectionate  regard  which  seldom  has  the 
opportunity  of  arising  between  king  and  subject.  It 
was  at  this  time  tho  intention  of  Bunsen,  without 
regard  to  his  worldly  prospects,  to  throw  up  his  diplo- 
matic employments  entirely,  and  devote  himself  alto- 
gether to  the  theological  studies,  by  which  he  imagined 
that  he  could  better  serve  not  only  his  own  but  future 
generations.     But  this  plan  was  fortunately  rendered 


198         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


impossible  by  his  duty  to  bis  sovereign  after  his  ap- 
pointment as  Counsellor  of  Legation  on  the  occasion  of 
the  King's  second  visit  to  Rome  as  he  was  returning 
from  Naples,  and  by  his  further  appointment  as  Charge 
d' Affaires  on  the  departure  of  Niebuhr  from  Rome  in 
the  following  March. 

Madame  Buxsen  to  her  Mother. 

11 14  Nov.,  1822.-— Charles  is  running  every  day  and  all 
day  long  after  Kings  and  Princes.  I  am  sure  I  have 
reason  to  long  for  the  King  of  Prussia's  departure,  for  he 
is  in  such  a  state  of  good-humour  and  activity,  and  is  so 
well  entertained  with  everything,  that  it  is  his  pleasure  to 
run  about  from  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning  till  dark, 
with  only  a  short  interval  for  dinner.  He  leads  the  way, 
attended  by  Mr.  Niebuhr  and  Alexander  von  Humboldt, 
and  the  two  Princes  follow,  attended  by  Charles,  who  is 
often  called  by  Mr.  Niebuhr  to  explain  things  to  the  King, 
in  particular  the  churches,  which  Mr.  Niebuhr  says  he 
understands  better  than  himself.  Charles  has  every  reason 
to  be  satisfied  that  these  royal  personages  like  his  company, 
which  is  some  consolation  under  the  bodily  fatigue,  waste 
of  time  and  spirits  they  occasion.  I  must  complain  a  little 
of  my  misfortunes  :  I  am  obliged  to  get  up  regularly  in  the 
dark,  and  hurry  on  some  clothes  to  give  Charles  his  break- 
fast in  time  for  him  to  be  in  attendance  at  half-past  seven ; 
then  I  never  know  what  hour  to  expect  him  to  dinner,  for 
though  the  King  fixes  his  dinner-time  at  two  o'clock,  he  is 
very  apt  when  busily  engaged  to  make  his  dinner  wait. 
Yesterday  however  was  the  worst  day;  in  the  course  of 
the  morning  the  King  signified  to  Charles  his  wish  that  he 


SHADOWS.  199 


should  dine  with  him ;  they  continued  so  late  seeing  sights 
that  Charles  could  not  even  escape  to  change  his  dress,  and 
he  had  nobody  to  send  to  let  me  know,  therefore  after 
waiting  and  wondering  till  four  o'clock,  I  dined  alone. 
Charles  after  his   dinner   drove    about    again  with   the 
Princes,  and  then  attended  them  to  see  the  illumination 
of  St.  Peter's,  and  the  Girandola.    After  that  was  over, 
he  was  dismissed,  but  his  labours  were  not  at  an  end,  for 
the  King  intending  to  go  next  day  to  Tivoli,  and  requiring 
*ixty-four  horses  (thirty-two  to  set  off  with,  and  thirty-two 
to  change  half  way,  he  and  his  attendants  occupying  eight 
carriages),  Charles  had  to  drive  about  in  all  directions  to 
TTU&mage  out  this  number  of  horses,  some  in  one  place, 
^me  in  another ;  then  he  went  to  report  to  Mr.  Niebuhr 
that  all  was  in  order,  and  lastly,  at  half -past  eleven  o'clock, 
did  he  get  home.    At  five  o'clock  this  morning  he  went  off 
*°  attend  his  Majesty  to  Tivoli,  whence  it  is  the  royal  plea- 
sure to  gallop  back  this  evening  at  five  o'clock.    Charles  is 
very  much  pleased  with  the  behaviour  of  the  King,  who  is 
throughout  dignified,   intelligent,   and  rational;   and  he 
likes  both  the  Princes,  but  in  particular  Prince  William, 
the  elder  of  the  two  that  are  here ;  the  Crown  Prince  is 
not  of  the  party,  but  is  expected  in  the  course  of  the  winter, 
and  probably  likes  to  travel  independent  of  the  King,  who 
keeps  his  sons  in  prodigious  awe :  of  the  Crown  Prince  all 
parties  and  persons  unite  to  speak  in  the  highest  terms." 

11 11  Dec,  1822. — The  day  after  I  sent  my  last  letter,  we 
had  a  visit  from  the  King  of  Prussia,  the  two  Princes,  and 
their  suite,  to  see  the  view  from  our  windows,  but  before  I 
give  further  particulars  of  the  event  of  that  day,  I  have  to 
teu  that  the  King,  two  days  before  his  departure  north- 


200         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


wards,  appointed  Charles  Counsellor  of  Legation,  of 
own  free  grace  and  favour,  without  solicitation.  This  is  a 
considerable  advancement  in  point  of  rank,  and  entitles 
Charles  to  an  increase  of  salary,  and  the  most  agreeable 
circumstance  attending  the  transaction  is,  that  the  King 
has  never  been  known  to  grant  a  similar  favour  so  sud- 
denly to  any  person,  and  the  whole  of  his  behaviour  lias 
shown  from  first  to  last  the  very  strong  impression  that 
Charles's  personal  qualities  made  upon  him.  He  staid  at 
first  ten  days  in  Home,  and  three  more  on  his  return  from 
Naples,  and  each  day  took  more  notice  of  Charles  than  the 
preceding,  and  the  two  last  days,  during  dinner,  and  on 
every  other  occasion,  might  be  said  to  have  conversed  with 
him  alone,  although  he  occasionally  spoke  to  other  people ; 
this  I  was  told  by  Colonel  von  Schack." 

"  16  Feb.,  1823.— As  I  have  already  told  of  my  boys 
sitting  to  hear  stories  in  the  evening,  I  must  tell  of  their 
present  delight;  Ernest  begs  for  the  Argonauts,  and 
Harpies,  and  the  brazen  Bulls,  and  Henry  begs  for  the 
Hercules,  and  the  Serpents,  and  the  lion,  and  the  Hydra  ; 
these  and  many  other  mythological  tales  Mr.  Niebuhr  had 
written  down,  in  the  most  charming  manner  possible,  for 
his  own  boy,  and  we  borrowed  the  manuscript,  and  I  have 
been  very  busy  this  last  month  in  copying  it,  whenever  I 
can  find  an  odd  half -hour. 

"  I  had  the  other  evening  a  long  conversation  with  Prince 
Frederic  of  Hesse  Homburg,  about  his  sister-in-law  Prin- 
cess Elizabeth.  He  is  a  General  in  the  Prussian  service, 
and  is  longer  in  proportion  to  breadth  and  thickness  than 
anything  that  ever  was  seen  except  a  knitting  needle,  there- 
fore I  suppose  he  must  be  the  very  counterpart  of 


SHAD0W8.  201 

Wother,  who  is  said  to  be  as  large  as  the  Princess.     He 

told  me  that  he  perceived  by  my  observations  on  H. 

E.  H.'s  pursuits  and  manner  of  life  in  England,  that  I 

was  acquainted  with  the  interior  of  the  late  Queen's  house, 

for  they  tallied  with  the  Princess's  own  account  of  things  ; 

and  desired  to  know  by  what  name  he  should  mention  me 

to  his  sister-in-law.  I  told  him  it  was  better  I  should  name 

the  name  of  my  mother,  whom  H.  E.  H.  had  known  in 

her  childhood,   and  to  whom  she  had  ever  been  very 

gracious ;  and  he  pronounced  and  spelt  the  name  of  Poi*t 

after  me,  which  I  thought  there  was  more  chance  of  his 

recollecting  than  Waddington.     From  the  wife  of  Colonel 

Schack  he  heard  that  Princess  Elizabeth  was  universally 

popular,  which  is  not  surprising,  and  I  also  heard  many  of 

the  jokes  that  have  been  made  about  her  size;  a  fat 

Countess  Goltz  at  Berlin  asserted  that  when  one  had  once 

made  a  journey  round  the  Princess,  one  had  had  walking 

enough  for  the  day ;  also,  it  was  said  that  the  Princess  had 

great  difficulty  in  finding  a  shawl  that  reached  as  far  as 

her  shoulders ;  that  it  should  cover  any  part  of  her  chest 

was  not  to  be  expected  from  a  shawl.' ' 

"4  April,  1823.— Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  left  Home  this 
day  se'nnight — and  although  poor  Mrs.  Niebuhr  worked 
herself  almost  to  death  before  her  departure  in  settling 
and  arranging  about  sale  of  furniture,  as  well  as  packing 
and  preparing  for  travelling,  for  four  children  and  her 
very  invalid  self, .  to  say  nothing  of  a  husband  who  needs 
as  well  as  deserves  to  be  taken  care  of — a  vast  quantity  of 
business  was  left  for  me  to  complete." 

On  the  28th  of  April,  1823,  Madame  Bunsen  gave 


202         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

birth  to  her  fourth  son,  Frederick  Wilhelm— who  lived 
only  till  the  following  June,  when  he  was  laid  by  his 
little  sister  in  the  Protestant  Burial-ground. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  20  May,  1823. — Mr.  and  Mrs.  Niebuhr  passed  through 
Home  ten  days  ago,  on  their  way  from  Naples  northwards, 
never  to  return ;  it  was  a  very  solemn  parting,  on  many 
accounts;  Heaven  only  knows  when,  where,  or  under 
what  circumstances,  we  shall  meet  again,  or  whether  we 
shall  ever  again  inhabit  the  same  place,  as  we  have  done 
for  above  five  years,  with  the  possibility  of  daily  inter- 
course, in  which  time  every  successive  given  period  has 
slowly  but  surely  drawn  the  bond  closer  between  us.  Mrs. 
Niebuhr  is  going  to  a  country  in  which  she  is  nearly  as 
absolute  a  stranger  as  I  should  be  (having  been  born  and 
bred  in  Holstein,  and  having  spent  only  the  three  first 
months  after  her  marriage  at  Berlin),  with  many  anxious 
apprehensions  lest  a  northern  climate  should  prove  more 
injurious  to  her  husband  and  children  than  beneficial  to 
herself,  for  Mr.  Niebuhr  has  in  Italy  in  a  great  measure 
recovered  his  health,  and  the  children  have  thriven  asto- 
nishingly in  the  country  of  their  birth.  I  must  however 
rejoice  on  account  of  their  removal,  for  this  last  year  at 
Home  she  appeared  dying  by  inches.  She  had  suffered  much 
for  years  without  its  appearing,  but  latterly  she  showed 
her  sufferings  to  such  a  degree,  that  I  hardly  think  you 
would  have  recognised  her,  with  hollow  eyes  and  cheeks, 
her  colour  gone,  and  her  hair  grey.  At  Naples  she  expe- 
rienced some  relief  from  the  inexplicable  pains  she  suffers, 
and  therefore  recovered  a  degree  of  strength,  but  the  air 


i 


SHADOWS.  203 


of  Borne  had  again  an  injurious  effect,  though,  she  was 
only  three  days  here. 

"  That  most  attaching  child,  Marcus,  parted  from  me  in 

a  manner  I  shall  never  forget,  shedding  no  tear,  uttering 

no  word,  but  clinging  round  my  neck  as  if  he  could  not  let 

me  go.  It  is*  in  general  more  especially  melancholy  to  part 

from  children,  because  you  feel  that  something  in  your 

life  is  utterly  at  an  end,  utterly  cut  off,  for  even  if  you  can 

anticipate  a  time  for  becoming  again  acquainted  with  the 

child,  that  acquaintance  will  be  something  new,  it  cannot 

he  considered  on  the  part  of  the  child  as  a  continuation  of 

the  former,  for  he  will  nearly  have  forgotten  you  in  the 

mean  time.    That  is  however  a  feeling  that  I  have  not  in 

the  same  degree  experienced  with  respect  to  Marcus ;  that 

child  has  a  heart  and  understanding  so  extraordinary,  that 

:i  is  impossible  not  to  reckon  upon  him  as  upon  a  person 

°*  formed  character.    He  entered  with  his  whole  soul  into 

*"e  pleasure  of  seeing  the  sea,  the  ships,  Mount  Vesuvius, 

c-9  at  Naples,  but  though  he  anticipated  great  delight 

01  imbibing  n6w  ideas  on  his  northward  journey,  he 

**  Nevertheless  very  sorry  to  take  leave  of  Home.     His 

»     e*  took  him  the  last  day  to  the  Vatican,  and  observed 

**^  was  continually  humming  tunes,  which  he  for  a 

fiisregarded,  but  at  last  said,  '  Why  are  you  so  mat- 


isn't* 

y  ^^,  Marcus?  don't  you  like  to  see  these  things?' 
r^°^s  did  not  answer,  for  his  eyes  were  full  of  tears, 
if^J^l  he  would  not  allow  to  come  down."  * 

l  "Marcus  Niebuhr  was  afterwards  private  secretary  to  the  King, 

4  wrote  a  book  on  Babylonian  History.    He  married  a  Fraulein 

fa  Wolzogen  of  the  family  of  Schiller's  wife,  and  died  in  1860.    His 

jjster  Cornelia  still  lives  (1878)  at  'Weimar,  as  the  wife  of  Herr 

Rathgen,  President  of  the  Tribunal. 


204         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

"14  i/tfiM,  1823. — I  drove  yesterday  evening,  my  own 
Mother,  to  the  Yilla  Albani,  with  all  the  children.  It  had 
rained  in  the  morning,  and  therefore  the  smell  of  the  earth 
and  the  trees  was  delicious.  I  enjoyed  that,  and  the  inde- 
scribable beauty  of  the  view  in  the  glow  of  the  setting  sun, 
while  Henry  and  Ernest  were  happy  beyond  all  happiness 
in  riding  upon  all  the  sphinxes  and  lions  they  could  pos- 
sibly climb  upon.  Little  Charles's  happiness  was  trotting 
after  and  admiring  his  brothers,  and  trying  to  get  into  all 
the  fountains  that  came  in  his  way.  I  always  recollect 
when  I  go  to  the  Yilla  Albani  having  run  my  last  race 
there  with  Augusta ;  I  hope  she  recollects  that  I  beat  her." 

"26  June,  1823. — I  wish  I  knew  what  words  to  use,  to 
spare  my  Mother  a  part  of  the  shock  she  will  feel,  on 
learning  that  I  have  been  summoned  to  resign  the  treasure 
so  lately  granted ;  and  that  my  precious  Frederic  rests  by 
the  side  of  his  angel  sister.  Be  satisfied,  my  Mother,  that 
I  am  not  only  composed,  but  thankful ;  thankful  that  it 
pleased  God  to  take  so  soon  the  being  that  in  so  short  a 
time  was  become  so  dear,  for  every  week  of  added  life 
would  have  added  to  the  pang  of  parting ;  thankful,  that 
I  was  not  thus  deprived  of  my  little  Charles,  that  infant 
preserved  almost  by  miracle  from  the  dangers  to  which  he 
was  exposed  by  my  distress  and  exertions  before  his  birth ; 
thankful,  that  it  was  not  my  first  child  who  was  so  speedily 
reclaimed!  .  ...  It  is  certain  that  this  infant  had  a 
peculiar  look,  a  look  of  death,  which  I  now  find  struck 
everybody  that  saw  him,  and  which  caused  Charles  and 
myself  continually  to  feel  (though  we  did  not  express  the 
feeling)  that  we  should  not  be  allowed  to  preserve  him : 
still,  it  is  fortunately  so  difficult  to  distinguish  a  decided 


SHADOWS.  205 


anticipation  of  death  from  the  natural  anxiety  occasioned 
by  infant  life,  that  I  had  begun  to  gather  hopes  from 
observing  how  rapidly  he  throve,  how  fat,  and  active,  and 
animated  he  became. 

"On  Tuesday,  the  18th  June,  he  completed  the  fiftieth 
day  of  his  life,  and  was  perfectly  well.  I  drove  to  the 
Villa  Poniatowski,  and  took  him  with  me  on  the  nurse's 
lap.  On  the  following  day  he  was  not  well,  but  not  per- 
ceiving any  reason  to  apprehend  serious  illness,  I  left  my 
little  angel,  and  took  my  other  three  treasures  to  the 
Corsini  gardens,  from  whence  we  brought  flowers,  that  I 
little  thought  to  employ  in  decking  the  corpse  of  my  little 
Frederic !  When  I  returned  he  was  better,  and  slept  till 
four  in  the  morning,  after  which  came  twenty-four  hours, 
of  which,  my  Mother,  I  could  wish  not  to  think  and  yet  I 
cannot  help  it  When  longing  for  his  release,  it  was  hard 
to  help  asking  why  such  an  infant  must  suffer  so  much, 
why  the  combat  must  last  so  long,  but  that  involves  the 
question  why  evil  must  come — that  most  needless,  most 
impious  question,  for  it  implies  a  doubt  of  the  perfection 
of  God,  and  I  hope  I  checked  the  movement  as  often  as  it 
occurred.  When  the  last  breath  had  been  drawn,  my 
Charles  and  I  left  the  precious  remains  to  the  care  of 
Maddalena  and  Angelina,  and  lay  down  for  two  hours. 
Afterwards  we  were  even  more  refreshed  by  Dr.  Schmieder : 
it  is  true  he  could  tell  us  nothing  that  we  did  not  already 
know,  but  he  reanimated  shrinking  convictions.  Then 
Charles  proposed  that  we  should  go  into  the  fresh  air  in 
some  garden;  and  we  drove  to  the  Monte  Cavallo,  and 
walked  in  the  shady  walks  of  the  Pope's  garden,  and 
enjoyed  the  summer  breeze. 


206         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


"  When  we  returned,  I  went  to  look  at  my  angel  at  rest. 
The  look  of  pain  was  gone  now,  all  was  peace  and  loveli- 
ness. I  scarcely  left  him  for  the  remainder  of  the  day,  and 
there  is  no  describing  the  sensation  (scarcely  to  be  called 
painful)  with  which  I  contemplated  that  form  in  the  beauty 
of  which' I  had  so  delighted  in  life,  from  whose  earthly 
development  I  had  promised  myself  so  much :  it  was  a  fitly 
framed  vessel  for  an  immortal,  early-glorified  spirit !  But 
at  night  I  took  leave  of  it — that  was  a  second  separation. 
I  could  have  wished  ever  to  have  kept  it  there  before  me. 
My  sweet  Henry  had  been  very  sympathising  during  the 
illness  of  his  little  brother,  and  Ernest  also,  in  proportion 
to  his  age.  Henry  would  hardly  leave  him  during  the  first 
day  of  death,  and  begged  that  he  might  go  to  see  him 
buried,  and  having  heard  that  he  was  to  be  conveyed 
away  early  in  the  morning,  woke  of  his  own  accord  at 
half-past  four,  was  very  devout  during  the  service,  and 
has  been  particularly  good,  docile,  and  affectionate  ever 
since.* 

"  My  Mother,  I  entreat  you  not  to  be  distressed  about 
me.  I  assure  you  that  I  am  very  well,  and  except  when  I 
parted  with  the  poor  nurse,  whose  grief  was  extreme,  and 
to  whom  I  shall  ever  feel  bound,  for  having  performed  her 
duly  with  her  whole  heart,  I  have  not  shed  tears ;  and  I 
have  too  much  to  do,  and  too  much  left  to  enjoy,  for  it  to 
be  possible  to  feel  depressed. 

*  The  touching  epitaph  of  the  infant  children  in  the  Cemetery  of 
Caius  Cestius  was  written  by  their  mother  and  rendered  in  Latin  by 
Bunsen.  It  concludes  with  the  words — "  Hi  parentibus  non  dati,  at 
monstrati  f  ucrunt ;  ut  angelorum  imaginem,  innocentiae  ore  cxpressam, 
grato  animo  recordantes,  beatae  eteraaeque  visionis  venturuxn  diem 
laetiore  fide  expectarent." 


SHADOWS.  207 


"It  is  so  completely  a  thing  of  course,  to  find  in 
my  Charles  everything — comfort,  support,  sympathy,  the 
power  of  re-animating — that  it  had  scarcely  occurred  to  me 
to  tell  my  Mother  what  she  has  long  known.  I  shall  now 
conclude,  that  I  may  drive  out  with  my  boys ;  we  shall  try 
to  get  into  the  vineyard  where  the  ruins  of  the  temple  of 
Minerva  Medica  stand ;  the  day  is  delightful,  a  fresh  north- 
west breeze,  and  the  distant  prospect  as  clear  as  possible. 
To-night  we  shall  take  Henry  and  Ernest  to  see  the 
Grirandola :  it  is  Saturday,  the  28th  of  June,  the  vigil  of 
St  Peter." 

"18  July,  1823.— The  destruction  of  S.  Paolo  fuori  le 
Mura,  which  took  place  three  days  ago,  has  been  so  un- 
ceasingly matter  of  thought  and  conversation  ever  since, 
that  I  can  scarcely  write  of  any  other  subject.  My  Mother 
saw  that  church  only  once,  and  had  nobody  with  her,  as  I 
have  had  since,  to  show  every  part,  and  enable  her  to 
become  attached  to  the  building  as  I  have  become ;  but  yet 
I  am  quite  sure  she  will  be  shocked  to  know  that  it  has 
been  seen  for  the  last  time,  that  the  fire  has  spared  but 
little,  and  that  little  left  in  a  state  in  which  it  is  impossible 
to  restore,  or  even  preserve  it.  In  proportion  as  the  walls 
and  columns  cool,  they  crumble  and  fall  in  large  masses ; 
and  Charles,  who  made  his  way  in  this  morning,  says  that 
it  is  really  inexcusable  in  the  guards  who  are  stationed 
there  to  give  anybody  leave  to  do  so,  for  it  is  not  possible 
to  answer  for  the  life  of  any  person  that  ventures  under 
the  porch.  On  Tuesday,  the  15  th,  some  masons  and 
plumbers  were  at  work  on  the  roof  of  the  church,  which 
had  long  wanted  a  thorough  repair.  They  were  observed 
to  be  drunk  when  they  went  up  after  their  dinners,  and  a 


208         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

quarrel  took  place  amongst  them,  in  the  course  of  which,  one 
of  the  plumbers  threw  his  pan  of  burning  charcoal  at  one 
of  the  masons,  and  so  utterly  were  they  deprived  of  reason, 
that  so  far  from  collecting  the  coals,  or  in  any  way  guard- 
ing against  mischief,  they  did  not  even  bring  away  the 
pan,  which  has  since  been  found  among  the  ruins :  these 
facts  the  culprits  have  confessed.  It  was  not  till  two  o'clock 
in  the  morning  that  the  monks  of  the  monastery  adjoin- 
ing the  church  received  the  alarm  from  some  country- 
folk travelling  along  the  road,  and  as  they  had  to  run 
to  Borne,  and  rouse  the  watch  to  open  the  city-gate,  to 
awaken  the  Governor,  and  to  collect  the  firemen,  two  hours 
were  unavoidably  lost  before  the  latter  arrived  from  Rome 
with  their  one  engine  and  their  water-carts — so  little  is  the 
danger  of  fire  provided  against  in  Home.  It  is  needless  to 
say  that  they  came  too  late  to  be  of  any  use ;  till  the  fire 
had  accomplished  its  work  in  consuming  the  whole  of  the 
roof,  it  raged  unabated.  The  greater  part,  and  the  finest 
of  the  columns,  fell  in  masses  of  lime,  and  more  that  remain 
standing  are  so  calcinated,  that  they  will  probably  at  the 
longest  only  wait  for  the  storms  of  autumn  to  be  laid  pros- 
trate. The  mosaics  of  the  ninth  century  are  yet  standing; 
but  one  of  the  prodigious  columns  of  white  granite  that 
support  the  arch  on  which  they  are  fixed,  is  split  from  the 
summit  to  the  base.  The  mosaics  produce  a  wonderful  effect, 
being  now  laid  open  to  the  glaring  sun,  whereas  they  were 
formerly  dimly  discovered  in  the  twilight  of  the  church. 
The  beautiful  tabernacle  that  covered  the  high  altar,  a 
work  of  the  thirteenth  century,  is  also  yet  standing,  although 
damaged.  It  was  an  extraordinary  circumstance,  that  on 
the  night  of  the  burning  of  St.  Paul's  we  went  to  bed  at 


SHADOWS.  209 


ten  o'clock,  having  for  a  fortnight  before  daily  complained 
that  one  cause  or  other  had  regularly  kept  us  up  till  mid- 
night Had  we  that  night  staid  up,  from  our  high  situa- 
tion in  the  Capitol  we  could  not  have  failed  to  have  seen 
the  fire,  and  Charles  would  have  taken  care  to  have  routed 
guards  and  firemen.  That  old  dunce  Laura,  who  lives  in 
the  apartments  over  us,  did  see  the  fire  at  midnight,  and 
had  not  sufficient  wisdom  or  activity  to  give  the  alarm, 
although  she  knew  that  two  years  ago  Charles  had  not 
thought  it  too  much  trouble  to  give  assistance  in  saving 
some*  hay-barns  at  that  hour,  which  were  perceived  to  be 
blazing.  But  it  is  perhaps  in  a  double  sense  useless  to 
regret  that  assistance  was  not  more  speedily  sent,  for  when 
in  this  climate  at  the  driest  season  of  the  year,  a  roof 
entirely  composed  of  wood,  and  at  the  lowest  computation 
a  thousand  years  old,  had  begun  to  burn,  I  cannot  conceive 
how  even  London  fire-engines  and  firemen  could  have 
stopped  the  progress  of  the  flames. 

"  I  am  6ure  my  Mother  will  be  grieved  at  the  extraor- 
dinary accident  by  which  the  few  remaining  days  or  months 
which  the  venerable  Pope  could  have  had  to  live  will  pro- 
bably be  abridged.  Happily  he  does  not  suffer  pain.  The 
accounts  given  of  the  delirium  which  followed  his  accident* 
are  quite  affecting;  he  continually  recited  psalms  and 
prayers,  and  the  only  difficulty  his  attendants  had  was  in 
preventing  his  attempting  to  get  up  and  say  mass;  he 
always  knew  Cardinal  Consalvi  and  never  failed  to  answer 

*  On  the  6th  July  the  aged  Pius  VII.,  who  was  far  advanced  in 
the  twenty-third  year  of  his  pontificate,  had  received  a  fatal  injury 
from  a  fall  in  his  own  room  in  the  Quirinal  Palace — the  same  room 
which,  on  the  same  day,  fourteen  years  before,  had  witnessed  his 
seizure  by  General  Radet. 

VOL.   I.  V 


210         LIFE   AND   LITTERS   OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

him  rationally,  but  when  not  spoken  to  by  him,  he  returned 
to  his  psalms." 

"  29  August,  1823.— The  death  of  Pius  the  Seventh  Has 
made  a  great  impression  on  the  children,  when  they  are 
at  play  they  often  begin  to  talk  about  him ;  '  quanto  io 
toIoto  bene  al  Papa !  e  adesso  e  morto,  non  vede  piu, 
Thanno   messo    sotto  terra ;   ma  £   andato  in  cielo,    da 
Iddio,  e  da  Gesu.  Christo,  &  vero  Mama? — e  c'&  pure  11  zia 
Emilia,  e  la  sorellina,  e  il  fratellino.'    I  took  them  to  see 
the  remains  of  the  Pope  conveyed  by  night  from  Monte 
Cavallo  to  St.  Peter's,  and  they  were  perhaps  the  only 
persons  not  disappointed  by  the  spectacle.   I  had  supposed 
that  the  procession,  consisting  as  I  anticipated  of  priests, 
and  monks,  and  friars,  and  cardinals,  chaunting  and  carry- 
ing torches,  could  not  fail  to  produce  an  impressive  effect : 
but  there  were  neither  monks,  nor  friars,  nor  cardinals,  and 
only  half-a-dozen  priests ;  the  remainder  of  the  train  was 
made  out  of  detachments  of  troops,  and  four  cannon  and  am- 
munition waggons ;  and  the  torches  were  so  thinly  strewed, 
that  in  narrow  streets  where  the  light  of  the  moon  could  not 
penetrate,  the  procession  seemed  to  be  groping  its  way  in 
the  dark.    The  most  plausible  explanation  of  this  most 
unpontifical  manner  of  constituting  a  funeral  procession,  is 
that  in  times  past,  when  there  were  so  many  popes  of  an 
utterly  different  character  to  that  of  Pius  the  Seventh,  pre- 
cautionary measures  for  defending  the  corpse  against  the 
apprehended  marks  of  just  abhorrence  on  the  part  of  the 
populace  were  absolutely  necessary ;  it  being  well  known 
tnat  a  large  band,  after  having  been  disappointed  in  their 
intentions  against  the  remains  of  Paul  the  Fourth,  of  the 
Caraffa  family,  proceeded  to  knock  off  the  head  of  one  of 


SHADOWS.  211 


his  statues,  and  after  parading  it  about  the  streets,  threw 
it  into  the  Tiber. 

"The  remains  of  Pius  the  Seventh  lay  in  state  one  day 

at  the  Quirinal,  and  three  days  at  St  Peter's,  but  only  for 

a  few  hours  of  that  period  was  the  face  really  visible, 

having  been  afterwards  covered  with  a  mask.     I  had 

wished  to  have  seen  his  countenance  in  the  serenity  of 

death,  but  was  prevented  going  when  it  could  be  seen. 

Although  so  advanced  in  age,  and  reduced  in  strength, 

Pius  the  Seventh  had  a  hard  struggle  to  enter  into  his  rest ; 

his  death,  after  life's  longest  date,  was  similar  to  that  of 

my  blessed  infant  on  the  threshold  of  existence ;  his  chest 

continued  to  pant  with  convulsive  strength,  after  every 

other  vital  function  had  ceased!     On  Sunday  the  17th  (it 

was  on  Wednesday  the  20th  that  he  was  released),  he  said 

to  his  physicians,  'Perch&  fate  tutte  queste  cose?  io  vorrei 

morire,  sento  bene  che  Iddio  mi  vuol  ricchiamare ' :  and  till 

speech  failed  him,  he  was  heard  to  utter  supplications  for 

Please.   He  was  often  delirious,  and  his  ravings  were  those 

°f  devotional  exercises,  from  which  no  voice  but  that  of 

Consalvi  could  rouse  him.     Consalvi  watched  by  him  for 

"*e  last  three  nights,  as  well  as  days,  though  his  own  state 

Wa&  obviously  so  precarious,  that  it  is  inconceivable  how 

em  ^xx  have  survived  his  fatigue  and  agitation :  he  twice 

*$U\tad  in  the  course  of  the  last  night,  and  could  hardly  be 

vw^aght  away  from  the  corpse.    It  might  seem  to  many 

^ple  absurd  to  sympathise  in  the  grief  of  a  prime-minister 

\ot  the  death  of  his  sovereign ;  but  I  know  not  why  one 

should  be  denied  the  satisfaction  of  supposing  the  grief  of 

Consalvi  to  spring  from  a  legitimate  cause ;  to  have  lived 

more  than  three  and  twenty  years  in  the  confidence  of  such 


212         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

an  individual  as  Pius  the  Seventh  without  becoming 
attached  to  him,  would  have  required  the  insensibility  of 
vice  or  folly ;  and  Consalvi  is  neither  a  hard  nor  a  weak 
man ;  he  labours  under  the  misfortune  of  habitually  mis- 
trusting his  fellow-creatures,  but  there  are  many  instances 
to  prove  that  where  sufficient  evidence  has  been  given  of 
moral  excellence,  he  is  as  capable  of  doing  justice  to  it  as 
any  other  intelligent  being. 

"  The  obsequies  are  to  continue  till  the  ninth  day  from  the 
transportation  of  the  body  to  St.  Peter's,  and  the  day  after 
their  termination,  the  2nd  September,  the  cardinals  will  be 
enclosed  in  conclave — literally,  for  all  the  entrances  to  the 
Quirinal  are  walled  up,  and  provisions  for  the  cardinals  and 
their  servants  are  put  in  through  holes  in  the  wall,  which 
holes  are  sentinelled  by  prelates,  to  prevent  communica- 
tion ;  and  yet,  with  all  these  precautions,  there  never  yet 
was  a  conclave  in  which  the  state  of  parties  did  not  become 
public  before  it  closed.  There  are  persons  who  assert  that 
there  are  as  many  candidates  as  cardinals,  but  certain 
it  is  that  on  the  most  moderate  computation  there  are  not 
less  than  eight  '  che  passeggiano,'  as  the  Romans  call  it,  that 
is,  who  seek  after  the  Papacy,  wherefore  a  tedious  conclave 
is  to  be  apprehended.  I  wish  they  might  elect  the 
Pope  in  time  to  allow  us  a  breath  of  fresh  air  at  Frascati 
before  the  winter ;  Charles  will  hardly  think  himself  at 
liberty  to  move  as  long  as  the  conclave  lasts,  and  to  us  it 
would  be  no  pleasure  to  go  without  him." 

"20  Sept.,  1823.— On  Monday,  the  1st  September,  I 
attended  in  St.  Peter's  the  last  and  most  solemn  requiem- 
service  for  the  deceased  Pope,  and  was  much  gratified ;  the 
greater  part  of  it  took  place  in  that  chapel  into  which  I 


SHADOWS.  213 


went  twice  with  my  Mother  to  hear  vespers  after  our 
arrival  in  Home.  I  sat  in  the  gallery  appointed  for  the 
chiefs  of  the  mission  and  their  wives ;  all  other  persons, 
strangers  or  not  (the  good  days  of  Cardinal  Consalvi  being 
past)  might  take  their  chance  as  they  could  in  the  body  of 
the  church,  which  was  on  this  occasion  literally  full,  and 
filled  with  all  that  variety  of  costume  which  gives  such  a 
peculiar  effect  to  a  Roman  crowd.  Into  the  chapel  nobody 
was  allowed  to  enter,  except  the  cardinals  and  prelates ;  the 
service  was  therefore  undisturbed,  the  buzz  of  the  multi- 
tude seeming  more  distant  than  it  was.  After  the  conclu- 
sion of  the  mass,  in  which  the  exquisite  requiem  of  Pittoni 
was  sung  in  even  greater  perfection  than  usual,  the  cere- 
mony of  absolution  -was  performed  five  times,  by  five 
several  cardinals ;  for  Pius  the  Seventh  as  Pope,  as  Car- 
dinal, as  Archbishop,  as  Priest,  and  as  Deacon ;  the  five 
cardinals  went  in  procession  into  the  body  of  the  church, 
followed  by  the  papal  singers,  who  performed  a  passage  of 
a  psalm  or  an  anthem,  after  each  absolution.  These  ex- 
quisite pieces  of  music  were  heard  in  perfection  where  we 
sate,  but  were  nearly  lost  to  persons  who,  though  nearer, 
stood  in  the  confusion  of  the  crowd.  The  next  day,  we 
went  to  the  apartments  of  Cardinal  Consalvi  at  the  Palace 
of  the  Consulta,  opposite  the  palace  of  Monte  Cavallo,  to 
see  the  cardinals  walk  in  procession  into  conclave,  and  it 
was  one  of  the  really  fine  sights  to  be  seen.  The  piazza 
was  as  full  as  it  could  hold  of  people,  and  two  lines  of 
soldiers  formed  a  passage  for  the  cardinals.  In  the  centre 
the  two  majestic  statues,  with  the  obelisk  between  them, 
appeared  more  colossal  than  ever,  from  the  opportunity 
given  of  measuring  them  with  human  dimensions.    Just 


214        LIFB  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


before  them  there  is  now  a  noble  fountain,  formed  of  the 
enormous  granite  crater  which  my  Mother  may  remember 
lay  broken  in  two  pieces  under  the  Temple  of  Peace  the 
winter  she  was  in  Home ;  the  water,  springing  into  the  air, 
and  falling  into  a  lake  rather  than  bason,  glowed  and 
sparkled  in  the  sun's  rays,  while  the  statues  stood  aloft 
with  their  shady  side  towards  us,  and  casting  a  long  shadow 
over  the  crowd ;  behind,  the  fine  cypresses  rising  above 
the  walls  of  the  Colonna  garden,  and  the  cupola  of  St. 
Peter's  in  the  distance,  completed  a  picture,  which  as  to 
forms,  lights,  shades,  and  colours,  was  exclusively  peculiar 
to  Home.  The  cardinals  walked  two  and  two,  from  a  little 
church  at  the  other  extremity  of  the  summit  of  the  Quirinal, 
with  one  of  the  Guardia  Nobile  on  each  side,  and  preceded 
by  all  the  attendants  who  were  to  be  shut  up  with  them 
during  the  conclave,  also  by  the  singers  of  the  papal  chapel, 
who  performed  the  Vent  Creator  Spiritm ;  the  effect  of  this 
might  have  been  as  fine  as  possible,  but  a  noisy  and  disso- 
nant military  band  at  the  close  of  the  procession  disturbed 
all.  Within  the  first  three  hours  of  the  entrance  of  the 
cardinals,  the  diplomatic  body,  and  the  ecclesiastics  and 
nobilta,  are  allowed  to  visit  them,  and  Charles  was  much 
amused  to  hear  the  various  ways  of  expressing  the  compli  • 
ments  of  etiquette  on  the  occasion ;  each  several  person 
wishes  each  several  cardinal  a  happy  conclave,  concluding 
with  some  expression  to  signify  the  hope  of  seeing'  the 
cardinal  next  time  in  a  different  dress,  that  is,  as  Pope. 
The  votes  of  the  cardinals  are  collected  twice  every  day, 
and  within  a  few  days  after  their  entrance  they  were  dis- 
turbed in  this  operation  by  the  discovery  of  a  profane 
spectator,  namely,  of  an  owl,  which  had  entered  through 


SHADOWS.  215 


the  chapel  window.    With  much  trouble  and  exertion  the 
cardinals  contrived  to  drive  the  bird  of  wisdom  from  their 
assembly,  but  not  without  damage  to  the  panes  of  the 
chapel  window,  to  repair  which  damage  became  matter  of 
much  consultation.     Should  it  be  done  in  broad  daylight, 
it  was  feared  many  strange  suppositions  as  to  the  cause 
might  ensue,  and  that  it  would  appear  as  if  the  cardinals 
had  quarrelled,  and  thrown  their  inkstands  at  each  other's 
heads;  wherefore  it  was  judged  prudent  to  issue  orders  to 
their  Eminences'  plumber  and  glazier  to  proceed  with 
ladder  and  lantern  at  dead  of  night  to  replace  the  broken 
panes.     One  piece  of  policy  however  was  forgotten,  that 
of  giving  notice  to  the  sentinels,  who,  as  it  happened, 
were  not  asleep  when  the  work  was  commenced,  and 
suspecting  that  incendiaries  were  coming  to  destroy  the 
-whole  conclave,  were  upon  the  point  (as  it  is  said,  but 
that  is  certainly  a  calumny,   the  Papal  muskets  never 
being  arranged  for  murderous  purposes)  of  firing  upon 
the  workmen,  when  the  matter  was  explained  to  them. 
I  give  the  story  as  one  of  those  current  in  Rome,  but 
cannot  vouch  for  its  accuracy,  any  farther  than  the  circum- 
stances of  the  operation  by  midnight.     One  of  the  jokes 
to  which  the  story  has  given  rise  is  truly  Italian — that 
the  owl  must  have  been  '  lo  Spirito  Santo  mascherato.' 

"  From  what  transpired  in  the  first  week,  it  was  feared 
that  Cardinal  Cavalchini  would  have  the  majority  of  Votes, 
and  the  Romans  were  in  a  great  fright,  for  it  used  to  be  his 
custom  to  declare  during  Lent  that  if  ever  he  was  Pope, 
he  would  erect  a  gallows  before  every  public-house,  and 
hang  first  those  who  ate  and  secondly  those  who  cooked 
anything  but  meagre  diet  on  a  fast-day :  and  to  persons 


216         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

who  came  to  him  on  business,  he  used  to  give  notice  that 
he  was  not  in  a  good  humour,  or  disposed  to  attend  to 
them,  by  threatening  that  if  they  did  not  instantly  retire, 
he  would  throw  them  down  the  staircase,  or  out  of  the 
window.  He  was  for  a  short  time  governor  of  Home, 
when  by  acts  of  tyranny  corresponding  to  these  (  famous 
de  parler,'  he  made  himself  deservedly  hated ;  and  yet, 
such  is  the  bigotry  of  a  certain  set  of  cardinals,  that  he  has 
obtained  votes  merely  because  it  is  certain  that  he  will 
rather  burn  than  conciliate  heretics :  however,  there  is  no 
danger  that  he  should  be  Pope,  for  even  if  it  were  possible 
that  he  should  obtain  a  sufficient  number  of  votes,  he 
would  without  doubt  be  excluded  by  the  veto  which  by 
long  custom  is  allowed  to  the  three  courts  of  Austria, 
France,  and  Spain.  Cardinal  della  Somaglia  is  reckoned 
likely  to  succeed,  and  he  would  be  a  very  respectable 
choice :  but  according  to  the  example  of  latter  conclaves, 
the  fortunate  candidate  is  never  found  among  those  who 
at  the  beginning  or  towards  the  middle  of  the  period  of 
conclave  collect  the  greatest  number  of  votes :  two  or  three 
parties  in  general  mutually  defeat  each  other's  views,  till 
the  patience  of  all  is  exhausted,  and  then  they  all  agree  to 
choose  an  individual,  obnoxious  to  none,  but  who  has  not 
been  the  peculiar  choice  of  any. 

"It  is  an  indescribable  gain  to  me  to  have  now  the 
daily  use  of  a  carriage,  for  if  I  had  to  drag  my  three  boys 
out  walking,  as  I  did  two  of  them  last  summer  (Charles 
then  gave  me  little  trouble,  being  carried  by  his  nurse)  I 
should  not  very  often  get  out  of  the  house,  having  eighty- 
two  steps  to  descend,  and  then  the  hill  of  the  Capitol,  both 
of  which  must  be  re-ascended  when  we  return  tired  from 


SHADOWS.  217 


the  walk  and  the  heat My  letter  is  interrupted  by 

my  having  to  interfere  with  Ernest's  resolute  determination 
to  help  the  archangel  Michael  with  his  fist  to  chastise  the 
devil,  for  my  two  big  boys  have  got  a  great  picture-book, 
reared  up  against  my  couch,  containing  engravings  of  the 
noble  compositions  of  Luca  Signorelli  at  Orvieto,  with 
which  the  children  are  always  greatly  struck." 

"  8  Oct.,  1823. — On  the  day  of  the  election  of  Pope  Leo 
the  Twelfth,*  Sunday,  28th  September,  we  went  to  St. 
Peter's,  and  had  the  pleasure  of  standing  two  hours  and  a 
half  to  see  him  carried  in,  and  placed  to  sit  upon  the  high- 
altar,  to  be  adored  (that  is  the  literal  expression)  by  the 
cardinals,  during  the  Te  Deum.  M.  d'ltalinskyf  remarked 
on  this  most  extraordinary  ceremony,  '  II  est  vrai  que  je 
Bins  schismatique,  et  n'ai  pas  le  droit  de  juger  des  choses 
catholiques:  mais  ce  qui  me  parait  extraordinaire,  c'est 
que  le  Pape  a  mis  le  se*ant  la  ou  l'on  met  Jesus  Christ.' 
We  afterwards  had  a  still  closer  view  of  the  Pope  as  he 
drove  away  from  St.  Peter's,  and  were  struck  with  the 
contrast  between  his  emaciated  features  and  death -like 
colour,  and  the  brilliancy  of  his  eyes,  and  almost  too  youth- 
ful animation  of  his  countenance :  but  his  is  a  face  which 
can  only  by  contrast  recall  the  venerable  visage  of  Pius  Vll. : 
in  looking  at  him  I  felt  that  the  sight  as  it  were  slid  down 
his  face  as  from  the  sharp  extremities  of  a  mass  of  ice,  not 
finding  a  resting-place :  not  that  the  Pope  is  plain — on  the 
contrary  it  is  easy  to  believe  what  is  asserted,  that  he  was 
twenty  years  ago  a  very  handsome  man. 

"  It  is  impossible  to  deny  that  the  first  measures  of  the 

*  Cardinal  Annibale  della  Genga. 
f  Russian  Minister  at  Borne. 


218         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 


new  Pope's  government  have  been  wise  and  salutary,  if  the 
execution  only  proves  suitable  to  the  design;  they  have 
consisted  in  the  remission  of  taxes,  and  diminution  of  ex- 
penses. The  new  Secretary  of  State  is  a  very  respectable 
man,  both  as  to  understanding  and  character,  but  it  is 
feared  he  will  not  at  the  age  of  eighty  long  endure  the 
weight  of  business.  The  Pope  was  crowned  last  Sunday, 
the  5th,  and  the  spectacle  was  really  magnificent ;  we  had 
full  opportunity  of  enjoying  it,  being  amongst  the  few 
entitled  to  posts  of  honour :  there  were  no  places  reserved 
except  for  the  Corps  Diplomatique,  the  present  Pope  being 
resolved  to  do  away  with  the  long  prevalent  abuse  of  giving 
as  it  were  exclusive  attention  to  strangers :  it  is  said  veils 
are  to  be  enforced  with  great  strictness,  and  even  that  hats 
are  to  be  prohibited  in  churches." 

"  31  Oct.,  1823.— For  the  latter  half  of  this  month  the 
weather  has  been  beyond  description  vivifying,  and  we  have 
reason  to  be  thankful  for  having  been  able  to  make  the 
most  of  it :  we  have  daily  spent  several  hours  in  one  beau- 
tiful spot  or  another,  and  the  revival  of  spring-verdure  in 
inanimate  nature,  and  of  carnival-merriment  in  animate, 
has  completed  the  effect  of  weather  and  prospect.  Every 
tolerable  afternoon  at  this  season  of  the  year,  every  villa, 
vineyard,  and  garden  to  which  it  is  possible  to  obtain 
access,  and  the  roadside  to  a  certain  distance  out  of  every 
gate  of  the  city,  is  full  of  people  of  the  lower  and  middle 
classes,  and  most  certain  it  is  that  general  merriment  has 
a  most  inspiriting  effect,  when  one  has  no  weight  on  tho 
heart  to  counterbalance  its  influence.  The  marked  cha- 
racter given  to  the  different  periods  of  the  year  is  one  of 
the  things  that  I  shall  most  miss  when  I  am  no  longer  in 


SHADOWS  219 


Borne ;  and  only  those  who  have  experienced  the  effect  of 

the  annually  recurring  mandate,  by  all  understood,  by  none 

pronounced,  to  be  serious  at  one  time,  and  gay  at  another, 

can  be  aware  how  far  this  apparently  arbitrary  custom  is 

from  being  friYolous  in  itself.     Among  the  places  that 

my  Mother  knows,  we  have  been  in  Villa  Pamfili,  Villa 

Albani,  the  garden  of  the  Vatican,  and  Villa  Borghese : 

nothing  out  of  Paradise  was  ever  more   exquisite  than 

the  Villa  Albani,  in  the  sun  and  air  of  last  Sunday. 

Among  places  that  my  Mother  does  not  know,  we  have 

enjoyed  none  more  than  the  vineyards  on  the  side  of  the 

hill  behind  the  garden  of  the  Vatican,  and  another  situated 

within  the  ruins  of  the  once  magnificent  Villa  Barberini, 

on  a  little  hill  between  St.  Peter's  and  the  Aventine,  from 

whence  one  of  the  finest  panoramas  might  be  made.    We 

have  also  been  on  Monte  Mario,  where  my  Mother  knows 

the  cypress-avenue.    What  I  regret  continually  when  I  go 

to  spots  in  Borne  which  my  Mother  has  visited,  is  that  she 

should  have  seen  so  few,  if  any  of  them,  in  the  degree  of 

beauty  in  which  I  have  known  them ;  the  splendour  of  the 

summer-light  and  colouring  is  needed  even  by  the  scenes 

of  Italy.    I  recollected  the  other  day  by  the  lake  in  the 

Villa  Borghese  how  chilling  the  wind  was  when  I  was 

there  with  my  Mother,  and  wished  she  had  experienced  the 

charm  of  the  scene,  in  sunshine  and  stillness. 

"  We  have  usually  been  a  numerous  party,  for  as  Dr. 
Schmieder  is  on  the  point  of  departure,  we  have  made  a 
point  of  enabling  him  and  his  wife  to  see  as  much  as  pos- 
sible of  places  scarcely  accessible  to  them  without  a  car- 
riage ;  and  as  they  have  two  children,  whom  they  as  little 
like  to  leave  as  I  like  to  leave  mine,  you  will  easily 


220         LIFE  AND   LETTERS   OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

imagine  that  it  was  both  convenient  and  agreeable  that 
Charles  should  on  such  occasions  go  on  horseback,  there 
being  five  children  in  the  carriage,  one  merrier  than  the 
other.  My  little  Charles  is  always  the  best  behaved,  for 
howover  lively  by  nature,  be  always  in  a  carriage  sits  quite 
still,  watching  the  monkey-tricks  of  the  others ;  in  a  gar- 
den he  helps  to  play,  but  is  very  good,  except  that  he 
expects  bis  own  Mother  to  carry  him,  and  will  not  allow 
anybody  else  to  perform  that  office." 


CHAPTER  VII. 
the  capitollst:  colony. 

"  Goody  tho  more 
Communicated,  more  abundant  grows." 

MiLToy,  Par.  Lo*t. 

JN  the  preceding  letters,  allusion  has  often  been  made 
to  different  members  of  the  colony  of  German 
artists  in  Rome,  of  which  Cornelius  and  Overbeck  were 
long  the  guiding  spirits.  Dissatisfied  with  the  state  of 
art  in  Germany,  and  participating  strongly  in  the 
religious  reaction  which  took  place  at  the  beginning  of 
this  century  against  the  unbelief  and  revolution  of  the 
last,  they  had  come  to  settle  in  the  Eternal  City,  in  the 
hope  of  initiating  there  an  art-future  for  the  Germans. 
Being  essentially  outline-men,  in  opposition  to  the  mere 
colourists,  the  artists  at  this  time  went  hand  in  hand 
with  the  sculptors,  whose  leader  and  king  was  Thor- 
waldsen. 

During  Bunsen's  residence  in  Rome,  the  German 
painters  and  sculptors  included  Cornelius,  Overbeck, 
Koch,  Fiihrich,  Veit,  Schnorr,  Wilhelm  and  Rudolph 
Schadow,  Wolff,  Schwanthaler,  and  Kaulbach. 


222         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BAR03ESS  BUNSEX. 

Niebuhr  and  Bunsen  considered  that  amongst  the 
living  occupants  of  Rome  in  their  time,  the  German 
artists  alone  had  any  worth ;  and  that  in  their  society, 
as  far  as  their  sphere  readied,  they  could  sometimes 
transport  themselves  into  a  better  world.*  The  Catho- 
licism of  Overbeck  and  the  two  Schadows  excluded 
many  subjects  of  conversation;  and,  besides  Schorr, 
Theodore  Rhebenitz,  a  young  student  from  Lubeck,  the 
Tyrolese  Koch — "an  eccentric,  petulant  man,  full  of 
just  thoughts  and  bitter  sarcasms" — and  Platner — 
"made  a  painter  by  an  unlucky  accident, — whereas  na- 
ture intended  him  for  a  scholar  and  historian  " — were 
perhaps  most  intimate  in  the  circle  of  Niebuhr  and 
Bunsen.  "  That  the  modern  German  school  alone  had 
struck  out  the  right  path,  and  was  pursuing  the  proper 
aim,  could  not  but  be  recognised  by  Niebuhr,  who  had 
already  so  early  perceived  and  admired  in  the  great 
historical  artists,  from  Giotto  to  Raphael,  the  compeers 
of  the  ancient  Hellenic  schools  of  art, — brethren  in 
spirit  of  Dante  and  Goethe.  In  spite  of  the  individual 
defects  and  incompleteness  of  the  early  works  of  this 
modern  school,  Niebuhr  perceived  in  its  founders  and 
their  productions  tho  vital  principle  which  animated 
them  in  their  opposition  to  the  spirit  of  the  age,  and 
had  confidence  in  that  creative  power  which  had  united 
itself  with  a  clear  insight  and  a  determined  wilL'*  + 

*  See  Bunsen' s  Essay  on  Niebuhr  as  a  diplomatist  at  Homo,  in.  the 
Lebensnachrichten. 
t  See  Niebuhr' s  Letters.    1816. 


THE  CAP1TOLINE  COLONY.  223 

•ike  great  works  of  the  modern  German  school  are  now 

to  be  found  in  Munich  and  Berlin.     Two  important 

examples,  however,  remain  in  Borne.     The  house  of 

&e  Zuccheri  (64  Via  Sistina)  has  a  room  decorated 

^ith  frescoes  by  Cornelius,  Overbeck,  Veit,  and  Scha- 

dow,  the  order  having  been  given  by  the  Prussian 

consul  Bartholdi,  uncle  by  marriage  of  Mendelssohn. 

A  room  in  the  Casino  Massimo,  near  St.  John  Lateran, 

18  a  more  important  work ;   Cornelius  and  Overbeck 

^ere  employed  upon  it,  but  the  former  was  obliged 

*°  throw  up  his  engagement  for  the  sake  of  making 

designs  for  the  Glyptothek,  the  latter  by  ill-health. 

The   casino,   however,    contains    a    beautiful    ceiling 

painted   by  Veit  with  visions   from   the   Paradiso,* 

and  an  entrance  hall   by  Schnorr:    the  whole  was 

finished  by  the  inferior  hands  of  Fuhrich  and  Koch. 

The  first  settlement  of  the  German  artists  in  Borne 
was  at  the  Convent  of  Sant'  Isidoro,  where  they  lived 
for  their  art,  generally  without  any  system  of  worldly 
prudence  or  reflection.  "Cornelius  is  very  poor," 
writes  Nicbuhr  on  Christmas  Eve,  1816,  "  because  he 
works  for  his  conscience  and  his  own  satisfaction,  and 
purchasers  who  would  or  could  measure  their  remune- 
ration bv  the  same  standard  are  not  to  be  found." 

But  after  the  Bunsens  settled  at  the  Palazzo  Caffa- 
relli,  the  attraction  of  their  society  and  kindness,  the 
beauty  of  the  situation,  and  its  comparative  economy, 

*  There  is  a  noble  fresco  by  Veit  in  the  side  chapel  of  the  Church 
of  the  Trinita  de'  Monti. 


224         LIFE  AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

drew  into  their  immediate  neighbourhood  many  of  the 
artists  who  would  now  rather  be  sought  in  the  Via 
Margutta  and  the  streets  near  the  strangers'  quarter. 
The  little  German  colony  upon  the  Capitoline  Hill  then 
occupied  almost  an  insular  position  in  the  centre  of 
Borne.  It  was  a  world  within  a  world.  A  bond  of 
mutual  kindness  and  sympathy  seemed  to  draw  the 
dwellers  on  the  Capitol  into  a  great  family,  which 
regarded  Bunsen  as  its  head. 

One  of  the  most  valued  residents  on  the  Capitol  for 
five  years  had  been  the  excellent  chaplain  Schmieder, 
who  left  Borne  in  the  autumn  of  1823,  to  undertake  a 
master-ship  in  the  great  public-school  of  Pforta  near 
Naumburg  in  Prussian  Saxony.  His  departure  was 
greatly  felt  by  the  Bunsens  as  a  present  loss,  though 
his  future  post  seemed  to  promise  an  amelioration  of 
the  trial  of  parting  with  his  boys,  when  it  should  be 
necessary  to  send  them  to  a  distant  school  for  educa- 
tion. The  successor  of  Schmieder  in  the  chaplaincy  at 
Borne  was  Bichard  Bothe,  who  was  afterwards  Pro- 
fessor of  Theology  at  the  University  of  Heidelberg, 
and  who  there  continued  a  friendship  with  the  Bunsen 
family,  which  had  its  strong  foundation  in  the  inti- 
macy of  Boman  life.* 

Amongst  the  friends  whose  lives  at  this  time  became 
enwoven  with  those  of  the  Bunsens,  were  the  Baron 
Heinrich  von  Arnim  and  his  charming  wife,  who  were 
twice  at  Borne  in  1823  on  their  passage  to  and  from 

•  Dr.  Richard  Rothe  died  at  Heidelberg,  August  13,  1867. 


THE    CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  225 

Naples,  where  lie  was  attached  to  the  Prussian  Lega- 
tion, meetings  which  resulted  in  the  almost  parental 
kindness,  afterwards  shown  by  these  valued  friends  in 
the  north,  to  the  sons  of  Bunsen,  when  sent  away  from 
home  for  their  school-education.  In  1824,  another 
intimacy  was  founded  with  General  von  Badowitz,  a 
devout  Roman  Catholic,  who  in  that  year  accompanied 
Prince  Augustus  of  Prussia  to  Borne,  and  who  then 
became,  as  it  were,  domesticated  in  the  home-circle  of 
the  Bunsen  family.  "  On  later  occasions,  when  Bun- 
sen  was  summoned  by  his  royal  master  for  consultation 
from  England,  he  may  be  said  to  have  crossed  the 
track  of  Badowitz,  as  he  was  called  upon  in  more  than 
one  instance  to  consider  a  subject,  and  give  an  opinion, 
in  matters  previously  submitted  to  Badowitz  by  the 
King ;  but,  however  various  may  have  been  the  im- 
pulses given  by  the  two  favourites,  naturally  so  differ- 
ent, and  however  varying  the  lines  that  each  may  have 
drawn  over  the  chart  of  the  royal  lucubrations,  it 
would  not  appear  that  jealousy  or  mistrust  had  ever 
arisen  between  them ;  so  strong  was  the  conviction  in 
each  of  the  integrity  and  absence  of  all  party- views  or 
of  any  crooked  line  of  policy  in  the  other."  * 

In  the  month  of  December,  1823,  the  thoughts  of 
Madame  Bunsen  were  more  than  usually  carried  back 
to  Llanover  by  the  marriage  of  her  younger  sister 
Augusta — in  infancy  and  early  childhood  an  object  of 
her  tenderest  affection — to  Mr.  Hall  of  Abercarne  and 

*  "  Memoirs  of  Baron  Bunsen/'  i.  233. 
VOL.  I.  Q 


226         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUXSEN. 

Hensol  Castle,  afterwards  Sir  Benjamin  Hall  and 
Lord  Llanover.  The  attachment  which  preceded  this 
marriage  had  commenced,  as  boy  and  girl,  years  before 
Mr.  Hall  attained  his  majority.  After  his  marriage 
he  purchased  a  portion  of  the  old  Llanover  estate, 
which  his  father-in-law  had  never  been  previously  able 
to  obtain,  on  which  were  the  picturesque  remains  of  an 
ancient  mansion  called  "  the  Court."  On  this  newly- 
purchased  property,  Madame  Bunsen  heard  with  con- 
stant interest  during  the  next  few  years,  that  a  third 
Llanover  mansion  was  rising  within  sight  of  her  old 
home,  her  brother-in-law  having  decided  to  make  the 
place  to  which  his  wife  was  so  deeply  attached  his  per- 
manent residence,  and  Mr.  Waddington  having  made 
arrangements  by  which  his  eldest  daughter,  whose  fate 
seemed  indissolubly  connected  with  Germany,  would 
receive  the  value  of  the  moiety  of  his  landed  property 
after  his  death  and  that  of  her  mother. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  8  Jan.,  1824. — My  own  dearest  Mother,  I  have  begun 
the  new  year  with  a  degree  of  cheerfulness  of  spirit  which 
I  would  not  by  any  considerations  contrive  to  lessen,  where- 
fore I  have  allowed  myself  to  enjoy  unrestrained  a  feeling 
which  I  am  thankful  to  say  grows  upon  me  every  year,  of 
confidence,  not  in  the  prosperity  of  life,  but  in  the  power 
of  going  through,  with  God's  assistance,  whatever  life  may 
bring :  going  through,  not  as  a  beast  of  burden,  groaning 
under  the  weight  imposed,  but  as  a  joyful  bearer  of  the 
ark  of  the  sanctuary :  human  strength  alone  is  as  ineuffi- 


THE   UAPJT0L1NE   COLONY.  227 

dent  to  support  the  weight  of  a  feather  as  of  a  mountain, 
but  with  that  aid  which  is  ever  granted  to  them  that  ask, 
the  mountain  will  not  be  more  oppressive  than  the  feather. 

"I  have  some  new  acquaintance  this  winter,  my  own 
Mother,  who  are  people  I  know  you  would  like :  General 
Dornberg,  his  wife  (who  is  a  niece  of  Count  Munster's), 
their  son,  and  two  daughters.*  The  general  has  in  several 
instances  in  the  war  shown  himself  quite  a  hero,  and  be- 
longed to  the  Duke  of  "Wellington's  staff  at  the  battle  of 
Waterloo.  It  may  truly  be  said  that  in  person,  manners, 
and  conversation,  he  most  completely  answers  his  reputa- 
tion; so  fine  a  figure,  or  so  commanding  a  countenance, 
with  such  handsome  features  and  mild  expression,  I  am 
sure  I  never  saw :  his  manner  has  the  dignified  seriousness 
of  a  thorough  English  gentleman,  but  at  the  same  time  a 
degree  of  warmth  and  cordiality  which  is  in  England  more 
to  be  found  in  the  lower  classes  than  in  those  of  polished 
exterior ;  but  which  I  cannot  but  believe  must  also  have 
existed  among  English  gentlemen  and  gentlewomen  in 
better  times,  when  the  gregarious  mixture  of  all  conditions 
in  society  had  not  compelled  the  higher  classes  to  be 
habitually  armed  at  all  points  in  defence  of  their  dignity. 
Madame  de  Dornberg  has  the  remains  of  much  beauty,  or 
(to  quote  an  expression  of  M.  de  Lageard)  she  was  pro- 
bably "plutot  excessivement  jolie  que  belle;"  she  is  a 
thoroughly  pleasing  and  well-bred  woman,  and  the  whole 
family  have  shown  me  from  the  first  a  kindness  of  manner 
that  has  truly  gratified  me. 

"Of  General  Dornberg  I  must  tell  you  an  anecdote. 

•  General  Dornberg  was  at  Homo  for  the  health  of  his  only  son, 
who  died  there  July  17,  1824. 


228         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

After  the  battle  of  Leipzig,  when  Davoust  was  retreating 
towards  Hamburg,  General  Morand  was  commanded  by 
him  to  collect  contributions  in  Hanover :  he  occupied  with 
a  force  of  four  thousand  troops  the  fortified  town  of  Liine- 
berg,  and  kept  as  prisoners  there  the  richest  citizens  of 
the  town  and  country-gentlemen  of  the  neighbourhood, 
from  whom  he  had  extorted  by  threats  all  they  had  to 
give,  but  whom  he  afterwards  sentenced  to  be  shot  on  a 
given  day,  provided  they  did  not  procure  him  in  addition 
a  sum  of  which  it  was  not  possible  they  could  furnish  a 
single  farthing.     General  Dornberg  received  intelligence 
of  the  sentence  only  four  and  twenty  hours  before  it  was 
to  have  been  put  into  execution :  he  was  forty-five  English 
miles  distant,  in  a  country  in  which  the  roads  were  seldom 
good,  and  at  that  season,  the  end  of  October,  after  heavy 
rains,  nearly  impassable.    His  force  consisted  of  fifteen 
hundred  troops  of  the  Landwehr,  which  answers  to  militia ; 
nevertheless  he  formed  his  resolution,  and  proposed  to  his 
small  band  to  make  a  desperate  effort  to  march  to  Lime- 
berg  to  liberate  the  prisoners.     His  troops  assented  with 
acclamations,  the  forced  march  was  commenced,  and  com- 
pleted just  as  the  night  fell  which  was  to  be  the  last  of 
the  prisoners'  lives.     There  was  no  time  for  a  moment's 
repose  after  so  violent  an  exertion,  General  Dornberg  in- 
stantly stormed  the  fortifications ;  the  French  supposing  by 
the  desperate  courage  with  which  they  were  assailed  that 
their  antagonists  must  have  been  supported  by  a  poweiful 
army,  and  dispirited  by  the  fall  of  their  commander  Morand, 
gave  way  with  precipitation,  and  left  the  town:  when 
General  Dornberg  and  his  gallant  band  took  possession  of 
it,  and  found  the  graves  already  dug  in  which  seventy 


THE  CAPITOMXE  COLONY.  229 

individuals,  most  of  them  fathers  of  families,  were  to  have 
been  interred  after  having  been  shot,  at  five  o'clock  in  the 
morning ! " 

"28  Jan.,  1824.— -Of  the  many  things  of  which  I  have  to 
write,  the  principal  is  the  death  of  Consalvi,  who  was 
taken  off  by  fever  very  suddenly,  just  six  months  and  four 
days  after  his  venerable  master,  but  whose  life  for  the  last 
year  had  been  matter  of  wonder,  such  was  his  complication 
of  sufferings,  while  his  incessant  exertion  of  body,  and 
unavoidable  agitation  of  mind,  would  have  been  sufficient 
to  have  exhausted  a  man  in  health.     His  conduct  since  the 
sovereign  power  fell  from  his  hands  has  been  perfect; 
there  has  not  been  an  instance  of  meanness,  not  a  symptom 
of  querulousness  or  discontent,  he  has  been  throughout 
dignified,  courageous,  and  consistent,  although  the  party 
that  throughout  his  reign  was  adverse  to  him  has  taken 
care  to  put  the  strength  of  his  mind  to  the  test ;  not  that 
the  Pope  has  suffered  himself  to  be  made  their  instrument 
to  that  effect,  on  the  contrary,  although  circumstances  had 
occurred  to  render  him  and  Consalvi  decidedly  adverse  to 
each  other  when  they  were  equals,  on  his  elevation  he 
gave  a  strong  proof  of  his  just  estimation  of  the  character 
and  principles  of  Consalvi,  by  bestowing  upon  him  the 
situation  of  Chief  of  the  College  of  Propaganda  Fede,  a 
post  of  honour  and  of  influence,  to  the  boundless  astonish- 
ment of  most  of  his  own  most  zealous  supporters.    After 
Consalvi  had  received  extreme  unction,  about  two  hours 
before  his  death,  he  gathered  sufficient  strength  to  desire 
that  the  Pope  might  be  informed  that  he  lay  at  the  point 
of  death,  and  entreated  his  benediction;   the  Pope  was 
himself  ill  in  bed,  but  received  the  message  with  emotion. 


280         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

and  despatched  Cardinal  Castiglione  to  confer  the  requested 
benediction  in  his  name,  and  Consalvi  was  still  in  a  state 
of  consciousness  when  the  Cardinal  came.  I  went  with 
Charles  to  look  at  him  'ere  the  first  day  of  death  was 
past;'  and  his  aspect  was  indescribably  affecting;  his 
features  were  always  too  fine  to  be  fit  for  the  company- 
expression  which  they  were  most  generally  made  to  assume, 
as  if  to  conceal  the  conflict  of  emotions  within ;  but  now 
that  all  pain  and  passion  had  ceased,  it  seemed  as  if  the 
soul  shed  more  of  its  influence  when  its  presence  was 
removed.  Yesterday,  Charles  and  I,  with  Dr.  Nott,  made 
our  way  into  the  crowded  Church  of  San  Marcello,  to 
attend  the  obsequies,  which  were  performed  impressively 
by  Cardinal  Bertazzoli,  the  personal  friend  of  Consalvi; 
and  I  was  more  than  ever  affected  by  the  Dies  In©  of 
Pittoni.,, 

"19  Feb.,  1824. — Besides  several  balls,  I  have  been 
lately  at  a  very  pretty  f  Ste,  given  on  Madame  d'Appony's 
birthday,  at  which  a  French  comedy  and  a  vaudeville 
were  acted  by  her  friends.  A  niece  of  Madame  Kecamier* 
played  the  part  of  a  soubrette  with  such  extreme  grace 
and  animation,  and  spoke  French  with  that  inimitable 
charm,  possessed  only  by  some  French  women,  so  that  the 
rest  of  the  performers  would  have  been  wise  not  to  have 
admitted  her  amongst  them,  to  set  off  their  defects,  for 
they  acted  and  spoke  French  very  well,  when  she  was  not 
on  the  stage.  Between  the  two  pieces  were  represented 
tableaux,  and  I  had  thus  an  opportunity  of  seeing  for  the 
first  time  what  everybody  has  so  long  heard  of.    The  I 

charade  which  was  to  be  represented  was  D&lire,    To 

*  Afterwards  Madame  Lenormand. 


THE   CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  231 


signify  the  first  syllable,  Be,  a  sot  of  players  at  dice,  from 
a  picture  of  Paul  Veronese,  were  represented  in  very  pic- 
turesque dresses,  the  wife  and  children  of  the  principal 
player,  forming  a  side  group,  being  the  beautiful  Princess 
Bazumoffsky  and  the  two  little  Apponys.  The  second 
tableau  was  Lyre,  Sappho  playing  on  the  lyre,  surrounded 
by  Grecian  nymphs,  a  collection  of  magnificent  beauties. 
Sappho  was  Lady  Prances  Leveson  Gower — a  statue  of 
Parian  marble,  with  limbs  and  features  of  the  finest  work- 
manship :  the  nymphs  were  Mrs.  Dodwell;  a  resplendent 
Miss  Bathurst;  Miss  Walker,  a  daughter  of  General 
Walker's,  with  a  fine,  intelligent,  true  English  face  of  the 
right  sort — the  Mrs.  Hutchinson  sort ;  a  perfectly  lovely 
Italian,  of  the  name  of  Bischi;  and  others.  Then,  to 
represent  Dih're  all  together,  King  Saul  played  pantomime, 
with  Jonathan  and  Michal,  and  David  sang  to  him — what 
do  you  think — a  scene  of  Rossini's,  from  the  Lady  of  the 
Lake  !  The  Princess  Bazumoffsky  looked  very  handsome 
as  Michal,  but  the  whole  of  this  pantomime  was  to  my 
perceptions  very  absurd.  At  this  fete  I  saw  Madame 
Becamier,  who  has  long  been  in  Borne,  but  who  keeps 
very  much  to  herself ;  she  is  still  handsome,  large — but 
not  out  of  shape ;  and  she  has  a  good  and  mild  expression 
of  countenance.  She  is  a  person  of  whom  everybody 
speaks  well,  although  she  has  for  years  had  no  riches 
wherewith  to  buy  '  golden  opinions.' " 

"  1  April,  1824. — The  week  before  last,  I  may  fairly 
say  all  Borne,  all  nations,  classes,  and  conditions,  were 
occupied  by  the  loss  of  Miss  Bathurst,  the  beautiful  girl 
whom  I  mentioned  in  one  of  my  letters  as  contributing  to 
form  a  tableau  at  Madame  d'Appony's.    She  was  riding 


232         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BITNSEN. 

out  with  an  uncle  and  aunt,  and  the  Due  de  Laval-Mont- 
morency.     The  latter  offered  to  guide  the    party,   and 
accordingly  conducted  them  along  a  road,  or  rather  narrow 
foot-path,  beyond  the  Ponte  Molle,  having  on  one  side  the 
Tiber,  and  on  the  other  a  high  steep  bank.    He  got  off 
his  horse,  and  advised  the  others  to  do  the  same,  but  Miss 
Bathurst  preferred  remaining  on  hor  horse,  saying  she 
could  trust  to  his  quietness.  The  way  every  step  becoming 
narrower,  her  uncle  became  alarmed  for  her  safety,  and 
in  order  to  secure  her,  attempted  to  lead  her  horse ;  the 
horse  threw  up  his  head,  as  many  horses  do  when  seized, 
by  the  bridle  from  beneath,  and  at  the  same  moment  his 
hind  feet  slipped   down  the  shelving   and   undermined 
bank. — He  struggled  in  vain  to  recover  himself,  the  bridle 
naturally  broke  with  his  weight,  Miss  Bathurst  fell  back- 
wards into  the  water,  and  the  horse  over  her ;  her  uncle 
sprang  into  the  water,  but  while  he  swam  about  in  vain, 
she  was  seen  by  the  bystanders  to  rise,  and  then  she 
disappeared  for  ever : — and  though  the  most  active  search 
was  at  once  commenced  by  boatmen  high  and  low  in  the 
river,  the  corpse  has  not  been  found.    Her  mother  is  at 
Turin ;  her  father  in  the  year  1809  was  travelling  with 
despatches  through  a  part  of    the  Prussian  dominions 
occupied  by  the  French,  when  he  suddenly  disappeared, 
and  no  particulars  ever  have  been  obtained  of  his  end, 
nor  has  a  trace  been  found  of  his  corpse,  the  probable 
conjecture  being  that  he  was  murdered  by  the  French  for 
the  sake  of  the  despatches: — singular  that  both  father 
and  daughter  should  thus  suddenly  be  summoned  from 
life,  and  their  remains  be  consigned  to  the  elements,  with- 
out the  rites  of  Christian  burial.    I  could  not  help  relating 


THE  CAPITOLINB  COLONY.  233 

the  story,  because  the  fate  of  Miss  Bathurst  has  dwelt  on 
my  mind,  she  haying  been  a  thing  I  delighted  to  watch, 
as  much  as  I  could  without  ill-breeding,  whenever  I  had 
an  opportunity  of  seeing  her.  She  was  not  only  more 
complete  in  respect  to  beauty  than  anybody  I  ever  met 
before,  but  she  had  an  expression  of  animated  delight  in 
everything  she  saw,  a  freshness  and  fullness  of  youth  and 
Health,  with  an  utter  absence  of  self-consciousness,  that 
made  a  most  engaging  contrast  to  the  majority  of  fashion- 
able beauties.  I  have  mentioned  her  before  as  deficient 
in  expression, — that  certainly  was  the  case,  but  in  her  it 
was  scarcely  to  be  called  a  want,  everything  about  her 
bespoke  the  freshness  of  existence,  untouched  as  yet  by 
care,  sorrow,  or  passion.  The  most  dazzling  complexion 
and  colour  were  relieved  by  dark  hair,  and  animated  by 
dark  eyes ;  and  fine,  full-grown  proportions  of  figure  were 
rounded  off  by  just  the  right  degree  of  flesh,  and  harmo- 
nised by  natural  ease  and  unstudied  grace. 

11  The  Duchess  of  Devonshire*  died  three  days  ago,  and 
though  I  cared  little  about  her  when  living,  I  am  thankful 
to  know  that  she  expired  in  faith  and  peace.  She  sent  for 
Br.  Nott  f  three  days  before  her  death,  and  assured  him 
that  she  was  '  perfectly  composed,'  that  she  had  offended 
greatly,  but  that  she  had  repented,  and  that  it  had  been 
her  habit  of  mind  for  years  to  seek  pardon  through  Christ, 
through  whose  merits  and  intercession  she  could  alone 
hope  to  obtain  it.     She  has  had  cause  to  bless  the  memory 

*  Elizabeth,  widow  of  the  fifth  Duke  of  Devonshire  and  daughter  of 
the  fourth  Earl  of  Bristol.  Her  first  husband  was  John  Thomas 
Foster,  Esq. 

t  Dr.  Nott,  Canon  of  Winchester,  remarkable  for  his  dovotion  to 
the  Fine  Arts,  was  an  intimate  friend  of  the  Bunsen  family. 


234         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  LUNSEN. 

of  her  motlier ;  *  had  not  notions  of  religion  been  instilled 
in  childhood,  after  the  life  she  has  led,  she  would  hardly 
have  been  able  to  imbibe  them." 

"  24  April. — I  three  days  ago  saw  a  bas-relief  of  Thor- 
waldsen's,  only  just  designed,  about  which  all  the  world 
is  mad.  It  is  the  Sale  of  Love,  quite  original — but  that 
it  is  needless  to  particularise.  First  of  all,  beginning  on 
the  right  hand,  is  a  market-basket  full  of  Cupids,  packed 
one  oyer  another  like  chickens  in  the  Boman  market; 
and  next  the  extremity  of  the  marble,  stand  a  girl  of 
about  twelve  years  old,  and  a  boy  about  seven,  touch- 
ing and  feeling  and  peeping,  with  vacant,  indifferent 
curiosity,  in  utter  innocence  and  ignorance  as  to  the 
nature  of  that  sort  of  fowl :  on  the  other  side  of  the 
basket  stands  a  girl,  who  has  taken  possession  of  a  Cupid, 
and  holds  him  up  on  high,  but  the  fellow  has  no  fancy 
to  stay  with  her,  and  is  stretching  his  arms  and  legs, 
and  fluttering  his  wings  to  go  to  a  sitting  girl,  who 
with  extended  hands  is  inviting  him  to  come.  Next 
stands  another  female  figure,  hugging  her  Cupid,  who  is 
giving  her  the  softest  kisses  in  the  world ;  then  comes  a 
great  sulky  girl,  walking  away  from  the  basket,  looking 
vacantly  before  her,  and  swinging  her  purchase  by  his 
wings  at  her  side,  like  a  hen  bought  at  market.  Next 
is  a  man,  sitting  on  the  ground,  with  his  elbow  rest- 
ing on  his  knees,  and  his  head  bent  down,  in  listless 
endurance,  while  just  on  the  nape  of  his  neck  sits  a  saucy 
fellow,  looking  triumphantly  round,  as  if  to  bid  defiance 
to  all  efforts  that  may  be  made  to  shake  him  off.  Finally, 
over  the  head  of  the  last,  a  Cupid  is  flying  away,  after 

•  Elizabeth,  daughter  of  Sir  Jermyn  Davcrs,  Bt. 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  235 

whom  a  decrepid  old  man  is  hobbling  on  a  stick,  with  Ids 
hand  stretched  out  after  the  fugitive.  Another  recent 
work  of  Thorwaldsen  is  the  bust  of  Consalvi,  which  is 
inconceivably  fine;  there  is  no  perfection  in  the  bust, 
either  as  to  form  or  expression,  which  was  not  in  the 
living  countenance,  and  yet  the  countenance  in  life  seldom 
appeared  so  full  of  everything  that  is  good,  great,  intel- 
ligent and  energetic:  but  the  marble  cannot  give  the 
brilliant  and  penetrating  eye,  which  in  Consalvi  was  such 
a  distinguishing  feature." 

"  12  May,  1824. — We  have  spent  four  delightful  days 
at  Tivoli,  which  place  was  more  magnificent  in  verdure 
and  vegetation  than  I  had  ever  seen  it.  We  loft  Borne 
early  in  the  morning  and  arriving  at  twelve,  went  im- 
mediately to  the  Grotto  of  Neptune,  and  after  dinner  to 
the  Villa  d'Este,  where  the  magnificent  cypresses  have 
diminished  in  number  since  my  last  visit.  The  next  morn- 
ing we  set  off  after  breakfast  to  accomplish  the  Giro.  My 
Mother  will  remember  the  beautiful  walk  that  is  thus 
designated,  going  out  of  Tivoli  by  the  gate  nearest  the 
Sibylla,  and  returning  by  the  other  gate,  and  the  Villa  of 
Mfficenas.  I  went  the  greatest  part  of  the  way  upon  an 
ass,  from  which  I  dismounted  to  scramble  down  a  path 
only  made  for  goats,  lately  discovered  by  Charles  in  his 
expedition  with  the  Prince  of  Orange,  leading  to  a  spot  on 
the  bank  of  the  river  just  opposite  the  Cascatelle.  Henry 
and  Ernest  each  had  an  ass,  and  were  very  happy.  My 
Utile  darling  Charles  I  left  with  Angelina,  to  take  a  less 
laborious  walk  nearer  the*  inn.  After  dinner  we  went  to 
the  Villa  of  Hadrian,  in  which  there  were  not  any  girls 
gathering  mulberry-leaves,  but  which  in  everything  else 


236         LUTE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

appeared  as  it  did  seven  years  ago  in  June.  The  next 
day,  before  six  o'clock,  we  were,  on  our  way  to  Vicovaro, 
ten  miles  from  Tivoli  on  the  road  to  Subiaco.  The  drive 
is  beautiful,  leading  along  the  banks  of  the  Anio  in  a 
narrow  and  constantly  ascending  valley,  the  mountains 
having  the  character  of  those  about  the  lakes  in  West- 
moreland. At  Vicovaro  we  saw  the  remains  of  the 
ancient  walls,  built  of  enormous  fragments  of  stone  with- 
out cement ;  and  a  beautiful  old  chapel,*  a  most  perfect 
specimen  of  Italian-Gothic,  a  style  of  architecture  dif- 
fering, but  not  radically,  in  conception  and  execution  from 
the  Gothic  of  England,  France,  and  Germany,  at  the 
same  period.  The  chapel  was  erected  at  the  expense  of 
one  of  the  Orsini  family,  and  that  name,  being  inscribed 
within  and  without,  has  been  retained  in  the  knowledge  of 
the  inhabitants,  every  other  circumstance  relative  to  the 
foundation  being  related  in  the  most  absurdly  fabulous 
manner.  One  account  is,  that  it  was  a  heathen  temple, 
which  once  stood  in  another  place,  and  was  transported 
piecemeal  and  put  up  there.  The  clergyman  of  the  parish 
did  not  insist  upon  the  accuracy  of  the  latter  supposition, 
but  was  nevertheless  convinced  that  the  long,  slender, 
Gothic  cluster-columns  were  remains  of  an  ancient  Boman 
edifice,  and  observing  us  admiring  the  statues  of  saints 
and  prophets  in  the  niches  of  the  portal,  said,  '  E  queste 
figure  erano  fabbricate  dagli  schiavi  della  famiglia  Orsini ' 
— imagining  that  the  Orsini  had  been  ancient  Boman 
patricians  in  heathen  times.  We  drove  a  mile  and  a  half 
beyond  Vicovaro  to  the  monastery  of  S.  Cosimato,  situated 

♦  Built  by  Simonc,  a  pupil  of  BrunoUcschi,  who,  says  Vaaari,  diod 
when  ho  was  employed  upen  it. 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  237 

on  a  rock,  rising  to  a  great  height  perpendicularly  from  the 
Anio,  which  rock  is  perforated  into  cells,  made  by  the 
original  monks  of  St.  Benedict  in  the  sixth  century.  The 
prior  of  the  monastery  received  us  very  goodnaturedly, 
he  could  not  of  course  let  me  in,  but  showed  us  everywhere 
about,  and  took  us  a  most  broiling,  but  beautiful  walk ; 
and  afterwards  in  a  room  next  the  sacristy  (which  was  not 
forbidden  to  women,  the  entrance  being  from  the  church) 
gave  us  a  most  excellent  luncheon,  of  ham,  salad,  omelet, 
eggs,  and  cheese.  In  the  same  manner  these  monks 
receive  all  strangers  that  come,  and  single  men  they  allow 
to  lodge  in  the  convent  as  long  as  they  please,  expecting 
of  course  a  trifling  present,  under  the  name  of  alms  for  the 
use  of  the  church :  but  travellers  have  reason  to  be  very 
glad  to  be  so  received,  there  being  nothing  like  an  inn  for 
many  miles  round. 

"  The  fourth  day  we  again  visited  the  Grotto  of  Nep- 
tune, and  sat  a  long  time  in  the  Villa  d'Este,  and  after 
dinner  returned  to  Borne,  driving  half  a  mile  out  of  the 
way  to  see  the  lake  from  whence  the  sulphur-stream  flows, 
in  which  every  year  large  incrustations  form,  which 
gradually  collect  together,  swim  a  given  time  about  in 
considerable  masses,  then  attach  themselves  to  the  bank  in 
a  sufficient  state  of  solidity  to  bear  the  weight  of  a  man, 
although  still  in  a  floating  state,  and  at  last  diminish  the 
circumference  of  the  lake,  which  in  the  memory  of  man 
was  twice  as  large  as  it  is  now.  It  is  on  record  that  the 
ancients  found  the  water  to  possess  healing  virtues,  and 
the  Emperor  Hadrian  built  baths  close  to  the  lake,  which 
have  long  been  nearly  levelled  to  the  ground." 

"21  July,  1824.— Two  days  ago  the  post  brought  the 


238        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEX. 

long-wished  for,  but  I  had  almost  said  no  longer  ex- 
pected, official  intelligence  from  Count  Bernstorff,*  that 
Mr.  Niebuhr  not  returning  to  his  post,  and  the  King  not 
intending  to  make  another  appointment,  Charles  was  de- 
sired and  authorised  to  continue  as  hitherto  in  the  manage- 
ment of  business,  with  an  increase  of  salary  which  will 
make  up  our  income  in  all  to  a  thousand  pounds  ster- 
ling a  year.  For  this  we  are  both  indescribably  thankful, 
and  I  am  sure  my  Mother  will  join  in  our  satisfaction, 
when  she  knows  that  as  we  start  clear  upon  the  new  salary, 
we  shall  be  very  well  off,  not  having  to  incur  any  extra 

expense  in  our  manner  of  living Mr.  Niebuhr  will 

probably  remain  settled  for  the  present  in  Bonn,  or  some 
other  place  on  the  Rhine.  It  is  to  be  regretted  for  the 
sake  of  public  business  that  he  should  not  continue  con- 
cerned in  it,  as  he  has  an  astonishing  talent  for  dispatch- 
ing affairs,  as  well  as  judgment  in  directing  them ;  other- 
wise we  could  only  rejoice  in  his  being  left  undisturbed  to 
continue  his  Roman  history,  in  which  he  has  made  great 
progress  in  this  winter  of  leisure. 

"About  our  being  thus  fixed  here,  probably  for  two  or 
three  years  longer,  my  own  Mother,  I  have  said  nothing, 
not  because  I  have  felt  nothing ;  during  the  summer  and 
spring  I  was  anxious  to  hear  that  another  appointment 
was  made  in  Mr.  Niebuhr' s  room,  so  that  we  could  be  left 
at  liberty  to  quit  Rome  at  a  time  when  our  journey  could 
have  been  commenced  and  accomplished;  but  now,  cir- 
cumstances over  which  we  had  no  control,  have  altogether 
changed  the  case,  I  am  no  longer  physically  able  to  under- 
take the  labour  of  breaking  up  housekeeping,  and  under- 

i  *  Prussian*  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs. 


THE   CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  239 

taking  even  the  half  of  the  journey  to  England,  leaving 
out  of  the  case  the  present  season,  in  which  the  risk  of 
removing  the  children  would  bo  too  great  to  be  incurred,  if 
possibly  to  be  avoided;  and  should  111  ere  await  the  birth 
of  another  child,  if  it  please  God  to  grant  me  its  life,  I 
am  equally  bound  to  this  spot  till  it  could  with  safety  be 
weaned,  probably  not  till  this  spring  twelvemonth :  when 
that  time  is  arrived  we  shall  see  what  it  brings  with  it. 
The  period  I  have  mentioned,  of  two  or  three  years,  is 
stated  at  random,  for  Count  Bernstorff  specifies  nothing, 
and  we  have  no  other  data  to  judge  from,  as  to  what 
future  resolutions  he  is  likely  to  form My  own  satis- 
faction rests  upon  the  fact  that  our  remaining  here  is  not 
our  own  act  and  deed,  it  has  been  determined  by  circum- 
stances independent  of  us,  and  therefore  we  may  gather 
that  it  is  the  will  of  God  thus  to  dispose  of  us ;  could  I 
think  we  had  brought  about  the  decision,  I  should  be  full 
of  fear  and  dread  as  to  the  result,  and  should  feel  the 
bitterness  unallayed  of  hope  deferred:  as  it  is  I  will 
believe,  that  what  has  been  so  long  delayed,  will  not  finally 
be  denied." 

"13  August ■,  1824. — I  enjoy  indescribably  the  summer- 
stillness,  the  freedom  from  interruption,  and  the  glorious 
weather.  I  continue  to  drive  out  at  six  o'clock  in  the 
morning  to  the  Villa  Borghese,  where  I  find  a  place  to  sit 
down,  under  the  pines,  while  the  children  play  about.  At 
that  hour,  the  air  is  invigorating,  and  although  fatigued, 
I  am  never  exhausted  by  going  out  then ;  in  the  evening, 
the  atmosphere  is  never  sufficiently  refreshed  to  be  en- 
joyable till  about  a  quarter  after  dark,  when  I  enjoy  it 
upon  our  own  loggia.    My  darling  Ernest  completed  his 


240         LIFE  AND   LETTERS   OF  BARONESS  BUXSEN. 

fifth  year  in  most  perfect  health  and  had  a  very  merry 
birthday.  We  went  down  to  breakfast  in  the  garden  at 
half -past  six,  and  there  it  was  very  delightful  till  eight, 
when  we  brought  the  children  in,  and  produced  some  play- 
things for  the  amusement  of  all,  which  Ernest  was  to 

divide  as  he  pleased After  I  had  helped  them  to  put 

in  order  a  fortress  in  iron- work,  and  a  Turkish  caravan  (all 
Tyrolese  toys),  I  loft  them  to  arrange  or  disarrange  at 
their  pleasure,  and  went  to  lie  down  in  Charles's  sitting- 
room,  to  enjoy  rest,  and  quiet,  and  an  Italian  translation 
of  Thucydides." 

In  September,  1824,  Mrs.  Waddington  was  first  in- 
formed by  her  daughter  of  an  approaching  change  in 
their  family  arrangements.  In  his  unmarried  life,  the 
ideal  of  Bunsen's  future  had  been  to  make  a  home  for 
his  unmarried  half-sister  Christiana,  and  one  of  the 
charms  of  his  Indian  project  had  been  that  she  would 
have  accompanied  him  to  the  East,  and  that  her  health 
would  have  benefited  by  a  tropical  climate.  His  real 
intercourse  with  Christiana  had  however  been  confined 
to  a  few  weeks  in  1814,  when  he  saw  in  her  the  long- 
suffering  victim  of  oppression,  and  when  his  chivalrous 
spirit  was  roused  by  the  desire  of  putting  an  end  to  her 
sorrows.  Since  then  she  had  been  maintained  by  his 
remittances,  and  cheered  by  constant  letters,  in  which 
his  whole  life,  with  its  occupations,  cares,  projects, 
and  aspirations,  was  ceaselessly  poured  out  before  her, 
as  before  a  superior  being  capable  of  guiding  and 
advising.     Now  that  his  residence  seemed  likely  to  he 


TUB  CAP1T0LINE   COLOXY.  241 

fixed  with  certainty  in  Borne  for  some  time  to  come, 
his  earnest  desire  was  that  his  sister  should  leave  her 
home  in  Holland,  and  come  to  Rome,  where  he  thought 
that  she  would  be  the  maternal-friend  of  his  wife,  the 
presiding  genius  of  his  home-circle.  He  believed  also 
that  his  boys  would  not  only  find  in  her,  who  had  been 
the  object  of  chief  reverence  during  his  own  boyhood, 
the  wisest  monitress  of  their  youth,  but  that  her  presence 
would  have  the  desirable  effect  of  naturally  leading 
them  to  talk  German,  as  she  could  speak  no  other 
language,  except  Dutch. 

The  mistake  made  in  the  invitation  to  Christiana, 
was  bitterly  repented  of.  Her  presence,  joyfully  hailed 
at  first,  soon  proved  a  burden  almost  unendurable. 
Nothing  pleased  her.  She  had  come  to  Italy  expecting 
to  find  everything  perfect,  and  she  found  everything 
imperfect.  She  immediately  wished  to  return,  but  she 
had  given  up  her  own  house,  and  the  expense  of  the 
journey  back,  in  those  days  of  vetturino  travelling, 
was  not  easy  to  meet.  Thus,  for  seven  years  and  a 
half ,  she  continued  an  element  of  the  household,  "a 
ceaseless  trial,  putting  feelings  and  principles  to  the 
severest  test,  and  acting  as  a  *  refiner's  fire '  upon  all 
sterling  realities."*  And,  though  the  chief  struggle 
of  endurance  under  the  strange  vagaries  and  even 
violence  of  an  imperious  temper,  rendered  more  way- 
ward and  irritable  by  constant  ill-health,  fell  upon  her 
sister-in-law,   daily  contact  with   his  sister  dispelled 

•  "  Memoirs  of  Baron  Bunaen." 
VOL.  I.  R 


242         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

from  Bunsen  the  darling  illusion  of  his  life,  which 
had  represented  her  as  the  model  of  female  excel- 
lence. 

With  the  arrival  of  Christiana  was  anticipated 
that  of  M.  Simon,  as  a  tutor  for  the  hoys,  whose 
connection  with  the  family  for  seven  years — during 
which  he  was  "  an  instrument  of  moral  flagellation  to 
parents  and  children  " — proved  almost  equally  unfor- 
tunate. 

The  next  winter,  however,  was  a  happy  one.  Fami- 
liarity had  not  then  rendered  the  Bunsens  conscious  of 
the  thorns  which  were  in  store  for  them,  and  the 
presence  of  Mr.  and  Lady  Emily  Pusey*  at  the  beauti- 
ful Villa  Mills  on  the  Palatine,  gave  a  charm  to  the 
English  society  which  it  had  never  possessed  before. 
In  the  spring,  also,  the  Bunsens  formed  their  first 
acquaintance  with  Neukomm,  the  composer,  who  con- 
tinued till  his  death  one  of  the  most  valuable  and 
valued  of  their  friends.  A  great  personal  sorrow  to 
Madame  Bunsen  was  the  death  of  her  mother's  un- 
married sister,  her  beloved  aunt  Harriet  Port,  of  whom 
she  frequently  spoke  as  one  "  in  whom  the  energy  of  a 
loving  nature,  the  enthusiasm  of  self-sacrifice,  and  the 
ardour  of  devotedness,  existed  in  ceaseless  outpouring 
of  its  heart's-blood  upon  fellow-creatures,  without  the 
due  response  in  kind,  without  receiving  from  others 
that  which  it  gave  so  freely  of  its  own."     The  death  of 

♦  Daughter  of  the  second  Earl  of  Carnarvon. 


THE  CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  243 

another  dear  aunt,  Mrs.  Granville  of  Calwich,  in  the 
following  year,  loosened  for  Madame  Bunsen  all  im- 
mediate ties  to  England  which  were  not  connected  with 
Llanover. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Miss  Port  (the  last  of  a  series  of  letters 
to  this  beloved  aunt,  written  before  the  news  of  her  death, 
which  had  already  occurred,  reached  Home). 

"2  Oct.,  1824.— My  own  dearest  Aunt  Harriet.  The 
Sunday  before  last,  I  longed  to  begin  a  letter  to  you,  as  I 
came  out  of  church,  to  give  some  idea  of  a  sermon  I  had 
just  heard.  It  is  the  general  practice  of  our  clergyman, 
Mr.  Eothe,  to  preach  on  the  gospel  of  the  day,  and  the 
gospel  of  that  day  contained  the  account  of  the  ten  lepers 
who  were  cleansed,  of  whom  only  one  returned  to  give 
thanks.  Mr.  Eothe  observed,  that  it  being  the  universal 
custom  of  our  Saviour  to  require  of  individuals  for  whose 
benefit  He  intended  to  exert  His  healing  powers,  a  certain 
degree  of  faith  in  those  powers  (for  reasons  not  expressly 
stated,  but  easily  to  be  gathered  by  attentive  consideration 
of  His  modes  of  dealing  with  mankind)  it  is  certain  that 
even  the  nine  ungrateful  lepers  were  not  destitute  of  faith. 
This  may  also  be  proved  by  collateral  circumstances,  first, 
their  having  supplicated  for  relief ;  secondly,  their  having 
instantly  obeyed  when  bidden  to  *  go  and  shew  themselves  to 
the  priest*,'  instead  of  waiting  to  see  whether  their  journey 
woidd  be  of  any  U3e,  or  whether  the  command  was  a  mere 
mockery — for  it  is  said,  not  that  their  cure  was  performed 
the  moment  the  words  issued  from  our  Saviour's  lips,  but 
that  'as  they  wont,  they  were  healed.'  Therefore  the 
quostion  is,  how  should  they  have  been  capable  of  faith  in 


244         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

any  degree,  and  yet  so  stupefied,  so  hardened,  as  to  be 
incapable  of  thankfulness  for  the  mercy  received  ?  And  it 
may  be  supposed,  in  explanation,  that  they  argued  as 
follows :  '  We  have  suffered  severely,  have  suffered  long, 
have  suffered  patiently,  although  we  have  never  done  any- 
thing in  our  lives  to  merit  punishment  so  severe ;  we  have 
not  been  worse,  perhaps  better,  than  our  neighbours, 
whom  we  see  in  the  enjoyment  of  health  and  of  society, 
but  God  saw  fit  to  afflict  us,  we  know  not  why ;  it  is  easy 
to  understand  why  He  now  withdraws  the  affliction; 
we  may  be  glad  to  be  relieved,  but  in  receiving  relief, 
we  have  received  no  more  than  our  due.'  But  the 
Samaritan  joined  to  his  faith  in  Divine  power  and  Divine 
mercy  an  utter  self-renunciation ;  his  mind  had  been  so 
penetrated  with  the  consciousness  of  sin,  that  he  had  not 
an  idea  of  possessing  a  right,  or  making  a  claim,  to  the 
mercy  for  which  he  entreated ;  and  therefore  on  receiving 
it,  instead  of  being  bent  like  the  others  on  hastening  to 
obtain  from  the  priests  the  temporal  advantage  resulting 
from  his  cure — of  re-admission  into  society — he  was  irre- 
sistibly urged  to  return  and  proclaim  aloud  the  glory  of 
God  and  his  own  thankfulness.  Of  the  eloquence  with 
which  this  was  stated,  the  consequence  drawn,  and  the 
application  made  to  the  soul  of  every  Christian,  it  is  not  in 
my  power  to  give  any  idea ;  and  having  in  my  own  mind 
the  impression  made  by  the  whole  together,  I  cannot  in 
the  least  judge  whether,  in  the  bald  account  I  have  given 
of  the  substance,  it  will  appear  to  you  as  original  and  as 
edifying  as  it  did  to  me. 

"This  view  of  the  subject  has  led  me  to  reflect  on  the  ap- 
parent inequality  of  God's  dispensations  to  His  creatures  on 


THE   CAPIT0L1NE  COLONY.  245 

earth,  a  matter  even  more  difficult  to  those  who  do  not  suffer 
by  the  inequality  than  to  those  who  do,  that  is  to  say,  when 
the  latter  have  the  spirit  of  the  Samaritan  leper ;  but  which 
need  not  stagger  or  disturb,  any  more  than  any  other  diffi- 
culty of  the  sort,  when  we  consider  that  it  is  probably 
intended,  amongst  other  good  ends,  to  serve  the  purpose  of 
reminding  us  of  that  spiritual  world,  in  which  the  hardly 
tried  (that  is,  the  highly  favoured)  in  this  life,  are  to  meet 
with  full  and  overflowing  compensation ;  from  which,  even 
here,  they  receive  their  hidden  supplies  of  strength ;  and  of 
which,  even  here,  they  have  probably  a  clearer  sight  and 
perception  than  can  enter  into  the  conceptions  of  those 
who,  even  without  forgetfulness  of  God,  are  in  full  enjoy- 
ment of  the  be*t  share  of  earthly  comfort." 

To  her  Motheji. 

"23  Oct.,  1824. — I  need  not  tell  you  how  incessantly  my 
thoughts  beat  round  and  round  like  a  bird  against  the 
wires  of  a  cage  till  I  heard  from  you.  But  do  not  suppose 
that  I  have  been  depressed,  or  have  spent  the  days  in  tears 
since  the  arrival  of  your  letter.  I  shed  a  few  tears,  and  very 
few,  when  I  went  to  tell  Charles  in  his  room  that  my  Aunt 
Harriet  was  dead — and  I  shed  a  tear,  but  not  more,  on 
telling  of  my  poor  Augusta's  delight  at  the  birth  of  her 

child My  box  has  arrived  in  perfect  safety,  and 

well  might  I  complain  of  my  Mother's  too  great  magnifi- 
cence in  loading  me  with  such  a  provision  of  things 

I  shall  not  allow  myself  to  say  anything  of  the  feelings 
with  which  I  looked  upon  my  dearest  Aunt  Harriet's  gifts, 
although  I  did  not  know  when  I  received  them  that  her 
warfare  was  accomplished !    Perhaps  she  now  knows  my 


246         LIFE  AND   LETTEUS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

feelings  towards  her,  better  than  she  would  have  done  had 
she  remained  on  her  bed  of  martyrdom  long  enough  to 
receive  my  written  expressions." 

On  the  7th  of  November,  1824,  Madame  Bunsen 
gave  birth  to  her  fifth  son — George  Frederick, 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother, 

"  24  Nov.,  1824. — I  may  now  allow  myself  to  write  to 
my  Mother  of  my  little  angel.  I  am  sure  that  in  loving 
children,  as  in  other  things,  one  improves  by  practice.  I 
loved  the  others  from  the  moment  of  their  birth  as  well  as 
I  was  capable  of,  but  I  never  had  as  much  delight  in  any- 
one as  this We  intend  to  christen  our  new  treasure 

George,  after  one  of  my  own  dearest  Mother's  names." 

"30  Lee. — I  long  to  describe  the  appearance  of  my 
little  angel,  but  of  that  I  can  give  no  idea :  so  lovely  an 
infant  I  never  saw,  except  my  Mary,  and  though  his 
features  are  not  like  hers,  his  sweet  smiles,  his  early  intel- 
ligence, his  perfection  of  temper,  his  rapid  growth,  and 
undisturbed  enjoyment  of  existence,  remind  me  of  her 
continually,  and  that  being  the  case,  it  is  no  wonder  that  I 
rejoice  over  him  with  trembling." 

"  1  Jan.,  1825. — The  new  year  is  begun.  Lost  night 
Charles  and  I  sat  up  together  till  the  clock  of  the  Capitol 
had  sounded  the  close  of  a  year,  so  marked  with  blessings 
to  us  both  that  it  is  impossible  not  to  look  forward  to 
another  with  more  than  usual  mistrust — mistrust  in  the 
changeable  course  of  human  things,  not  in  the  mercy  that 
has  ever  hitherto  in  joy  or  sorrow  accompanied  us.  Those 
who  possess  so  much,  have  much  to  lose ! — and  the  side 


THE   CAP1T0LINE  COLONY.  247 


may  be  pierced  by  the  very  staff  that  supports.  But, 
blessed  be  God  for  his  inestimable  gifts,  even  though  it 
should  be,  in  the  secret  dispensations  of  His  providence, 
that  they  should  to-morrow  be  withdrawn !  " 

"27  Jan. — I  have  been  seeing  much  lately  of  Lady 
Frances  Sandon.*  I  think  her  quite  charming.  She  is  in 
the  first  place  very  pretty,  and  would  be  beautiful,  if  it 
were  not  for  her  mouth :  otherwise  her  features,  the  shape 
of  her  head,  and  her  throat,  are  perfect,  and  she  has  a  good 
figure  and 'fine  complexion.  But  if  she  had  been  less 
pretty  and  pleasing,  she  would  have  bribed  me  to  like  her 
by  her  evident  delight  in  my  children,  whom  from  the  first 
she  desired  to  see,  and  from  whom  she  could  hardly  take 
off  her  eyes." 

"  15  Feb.,  1825. — Our  two  new  inmates  arrived  on  the 
1st  of  February.  It  would  be  too  sudden  to  attempt  to 
give  you  a  full  description  of  my  sister-in-law  after  a 
fortnight's  acquaintance ;  suffice  it  to  say,  that  I  have 
nothing  to  tell  now  that  is  not  in  the  highest  degree  satis- 
factory, she  seems  to  answer  in  every  respect  the  idea  I  had 
formed  of  her,  from  her  letters,  and  Charles's  description : 
everything  that  I  have  seen  denotes  the  clear  head,  sound 
understanding,  and  high  principles,  which  he  always  attri- 
buted to  her.  She  has  many  of  Charles's  peculiarities,  with- 
out being  in  person  like  him.  Her  exterior  and  manners 
are  perfectly  gentlewomanlike.  She  has  a  very  good  figure, 
and  a  mild  and  intelligent  countenance;   her  features, 

*  Lady  Frances  Sandon,  afterwards  Countess  of  Harrowby  (fourth 
daughter  of  Joint,  first  Marquess  of  Bute)  continued  an  intimate  and 
valued  friend  of  the  Bunscn  family  till  tho  end  of  her  saintly  life  in 
March,  1859. 


248         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

which  must  always  have  been  too  strongly  marked,  appear 
much  too  large  for  her  face,  owing  to  its  thinness,  the 
result  of  long  and  severe  suffering,  but  the  expression  is 
not  harsh,  although  the  lines  have  all  a  tendency  to  be  so. 
She  has  a  sensible  manner  towards  children,  but  -Henry 
is  the  only  one  to  whom  she  can  make  herself  thoroughly 
intelligible,  though  the  other  two  are  already  fond  of  her, 
and  get  on  in  speaking  German.  She  has  been  tried  in 
life  more  hardly  than  anybody  whose  well-attested  history 
I  ever  yet  heard.  I  trust  and  believe  that  it  will  be 
possible  for  us  to  make  her  happy  and  comfortable  here, 
although  with  a  terribly  suffering  body,  a  house  in  Borne, 
even  arranged  as  well  as  it  can  be,  is  a  bad  thing  at  last ; 
and  a  person  used  to  Dutch  neatness  must  I  fear  be  in 
hourly  penance  when  waited  upon  by  Italians.,, 

"17  August,  1825.— The  death  of  my  Aunt  Granville 
and  the  desolation  of  Calwich,  dwell  upon  my.  mind  with 
a  degree  of  pain  for  which  I  can  scarcely  account,  con- 
sidering how  long  I  had  been  accustomed,  and  I  had 
supposed  reconciled,  to  the  idea  that  I  should  never  see 
her  again  in  this  world ;  and  considering  how  much  the 
pleasure  which  the  face  of  nature,  and  her  kindness, 
occasioned  me  in  Calwich,  was  counterbalanced  by  other 
circumstances : — but  on  opening  Gothe's '  Torquato  Tasso ' 
the  other  day,  a  well-known  passage  met  my  eye,  which 
suggested  an  explanation  to  my  feelings.  I  must  surely 
have  translated  at  the  time  of  reading  it  that  passage  to 
my  Mother — '  The  spot  trodden  by  the  virtuous  is  sacred ; 
and  their  words  and  deeds  re-echo  there  to  the  ears  of 
posterity.'  Now  I  believe  it  is  the  very  reverse  of  this 
being  the  case,  which  makes  those  feelings  bitter,  that 


THE   CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  249 

ought  only  to  be  sad  and  solemn,  not  even  mournful — for, 
to  her,  death  was  rest  and  reward,  the  prize  obtained  after 
the  fight  well  fought,  the  race  well  run,  the  burden  nobly 
sustained ! — But  that  those  who  inhabit  the  place  of  her 
abode,  who  possess  what  once  was  hers,  what  her  care 
embellished,  in  which  her  eye  delighted,  that  they  all 
should  forget  her  '  as  a  guest  that  tarrieth  but  a  day,'*  is 
the  intolerable  sensation:  foolish  to  be  sure,  for  to  the 
blessed  immortal  spirit  not  even  the  folly  and  wickedness 
of  men,  any  more  than  their  pains  and  sorrows,  can  be  a 
disturbance:  her  will,  so  resigned  even  in  life,  is  now 
wholly  merged  in  the  will  of  God,  and  she  knows  what 
we  can  only  believe,  that  all  evil  shall  work  together  for 
good  at  the  last;  she  beholds  in  the  spirit,  the  destruc- 
tion of  the  last  enemy : — '  The  last  enemy  that  shall  bo 

destroyed  is  death.' 0  my  Mother,  I  cannot  suppose 

that  the  death  mentioned  in  that  awful  passage  can  mean 
anything  so  comparatively  insignificant  as  the  mere  sepa- 
ration of  soul  and  body : — I  must  look  upon  those  words 
as  a  ray  of  light  disclosing  depths  of  mercy  even  for  the 
most  perverted :  devoutly  as  I  believe  at  the  same  time 
that  the  tremendous  threatenings  of  God  in  the  Scriptures 
are  to  be  taken  as  literally  as  His  glorious  promises,  and 
that  a  soul  without  relish  for  God  and  goodness,  incapable 
of  faith  and  humility,  and  thus  self -banished  in  the  time 
of  mortal  life  from  the  presence  of  God,  will  be  equally 
self-banished  in  another  state  of  existence,  and  that  in 
that  banishment  consists  the  condition  of  torment,  de- 
scribed under  so  many  poetical  images,  and  generally 

e  Calwich  was  afterwards  sold,  and  became  tho  property  of  tho 
Hon  A.  Doncombe,  Dean  of  York. 


250         LIFE    AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

received  as  a  place  of  imprisonment  and  arbitrary  punish- 
ment. Every  individual  figures  to  himself  his  proper 
heaven ;  and  those  who  have  in  their  time  of  trial  formed 
no  taste  for  the  Heaven  of  God,  such  as  it  exists,  would 
remain  dark  and  frozen  even  in  the  midst  of  its  glories,  if 
they  could  be  transported  there :  on  the  other  hand  (to 
borrow  the  daring  image  used  in  a  most  extraordinary 
book,  published  by  Luther,  but  written  a  century  earlier), 
could  Satan  himself  be  capable  of  a  longing,  an  aspira- 
tion after  the  joys  of  Heaven,  he  would  at  once  be  there ! 
his  pardon  would  be  scaled,  because  his  nature  would  be 
changed ! " 

"18  August. — Last  night,  an  unusual  hour  of  quiet  after 
putting  the  children  to  bed  enabled  me  to  dilate  on  a  sub- 
ject on  which  I  little  thought  to  touch  when  I  began  to 
write;    and  now  at  last  it  is  most  unconnectedly  and 
inadequately  stated.     Without  attempting  to  explain  it 
better,  I  will  only  tell  my  Mother  the  course  of  my  reflec- 
tions upon  it.    I  never  doubted  that  the  literal  meaning  of 
the  Divine  threatenings  was  to  be  received  undoubtingly, 
as  matter  of  faith,  however  difficult  for  human  powers  to 
reconcile  with  the  equally  certain  matter  of  faith  that  the 
mercy  of  God  is  infinite ;  and  I  well  remember  in  our  first 
summer  at  Frascati  expressing  that  conviction  in  a  con- 
versation with  Charles.    About  a  year  after  that  conver- 
sation, I  read  the  extraordinary  work  to  which  I  have 
alluded,  which  consists  in  a  small  number  of  very  short, 
very  concise,  most  comprehensive  essays  or  chapters,  of 
which  every  sentence  is  an  ingot.     It  was  written,  of 
course,  in  what  are  called  Catholic  times,  but  the  author 
was  a  Christian,  and  no  Eomanist.     All  that  is  known  of 


THE  CAPITOUXK   COLONY.  251 

him  is  that  he*  was  a  Teutonic  knight  of  Frankfort  on  the 
Oder,  his  history  and  earthly  distinctions  are  '  lost  in  the 
abyss  of  things  that  were.'*  The  work  was  published  by 
Luther,  since  the  age  of  the  Reformation  has  been  out  of 
print,  and  was  republished  a  few  years  ago:  a  Latin 
translation  was  made  of  it  at  an  early  period,  through  the 
means  of  which  it  was  known  to  many  English  divines  in 
tho  seventeenth  century.  This  book,  my  own  Mother, 
contains  much  which  made  to  me  as  clear  as  daylight  the 
great  point,  that  what  is  called  hell  is,  no  more  than 
heaven,  confined  to  place  or  time,  but  is  a  condition  of  tho 
soul,  into  which  the  soul  degrades  itself,  which  may  well 
begin  even  in  this  life,  although  here  its  torments  will  be 
lessened  by  that  same  veil  of  flesh,  which  the  joys  of 
heaven  cannot  pervade :  it  is  a  natural  consequence  of  the 
order  of  things  by  God  established,  a  natural  consequence 
of  the  rejection  of  offered  salvation ;  and  if  the  expression 
may  be  used,  it  is  impossible  even  for  Omnipotence  itself 
to  grant  that  which  his  creatures  have  become  incapable 
of  receiving.  With  Mr.  Erskinef  I  had  much  conversation 
on  this  subject ;  and  as  well  as  I  remember,  it  was  he  who 
suggested  the  possible  interpretation  of  the  passage — 
1  The  last  enemy  that  shall  be  destroyed  is  death ' — as  the 
other  member  of  that  mighty  paradox,  the  solution  of 
which  is  not  for  us  in  this  world — into  which  even  the 
angels  desire  to  look!  A  similar  view  of  the  world  of 
spirits  I  found  implied,  strange  to  say,  in  a  Spanish  poem 

•  This  book  "  Thcologia  Germanice  "  (this  ia  tho  correct  title)  was 
translated  into  English  by  Miss  Catherine  Winkworth. 

t  Tho  admirable  Thomas  Erskine  of  Linlathan,  now  well  known 
from  his  Letters. 


252         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

of  the  fifteenth,  century: — perhaps  the  author  might  be 
one  of  the  many  thousand  Spaniards  who  had  to  expiate 
in  the  flames  their  aspirations  after  purified  Christianity." 

"Rome,  30  August,  1825.— On  Charles's  birthday,  the 
25th,  we  had  delightful  weather,  the  sky  being  clear,  the 
sun  bright,  and  the  air  delicious.  We  began  at  seven 
o'clock  by  breakfasting  in  the  garden.  At  dinner  we  were 
fourteen  in  number,  besides  children.  Before  dinner, 
some  favourite  hymns  of  Charles's  were  sung,  arranged 
for  four  voices,  which  had  been  composed  (by  Keisiger) 
and  practised  by  the  singers  without  Charles's  knowledge, 
and  were  therefore  an  agreeable  surprise  to  him;  after 
dinner  we  went  to  Yilla  Lante,  and  took  our  dessert  with 
us,  and  enjoyed  the  view  and  the  garden  most  exceed- 
ingly. 

"The  presence  of  Keisiger*  in  Borne  has  been  and  is  a 
great  source  of  pleasure  to  us.  I  wish  I  could  pack  his 
music,  composition  and  execution,  in  my  letter,  how  my 
Mother  would  enjoy  it!  He  is  a  young  man,  but  has 
already  celebrity  as  a  composer." 

In  the  middle  of  September  the  family  removed  for 
the  refreshment  of  country  air  to  the  Villa  Piccolomini 
at  Frascati. 

11  Villa  Piccolomini,  13  Oct.,  1825.— I  did  not  think  I 
should  again  have  dated  from  Frascati,  yet  I  am  well 
reconciled  to  remain  by  the  unequalled  beauty  of  the 
weather  and  country,  although  out  of  virtue  I  should  have 
returned,  to  put  an  end  to  the  confusion  of  the  divided 

*  Tbe  popular  composer — Kappello-Meistcr  at  Dresden. 


THE   CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  253 

household,  and  get  something  done  of  the  much  that  is 
wanted  to  cover  the  children's  nakedness  this  winter. 
They  have  in  the  villeggiatura  so  torn  and  worn  the  remains 
of  their  summer  clothes,  that  I  shall  not  be  able  to  show 
them  in  Borne  till  I  have  bought  and  cut  out  and  had 
made  something  new.  However  that  is  a  trifling  distress, 
a  much  greater,  resulting  from  our  absence,  is  the  death 
of  my  canary-bird,  which  was  announced  to  me  yesterday. 
My  Mother  will  wonder  at  my  having  such  a  favourite,  but 
I  must  surely  have  mentioned,  now  four  years  ago,  the 
bird's  having  flown  in  at  the  window.  It  sang  most 
sweetly,  and  was  quite  tame  and  happy,  and  therefore  it 
was  no  distress  to  see  it  in  a  cage. 

"  I  have  only  to  tell  in  Frascati  of  uninterrupted  enjoy- 
ment. The  quantity  of  exercise  I  habitually  take  is  to 
myself  inconceivable.  I  will  give  an  account  of  what  I 
have  done  this  morning,  as  the  most  recent « occurrence. 
We  got  up  an  hour  before  day,  and  went  up  to  the  tip-top 
of  the  hill  of  Villa  Aldobrandini,  where  we  walked  up  and 
down  till  the  sun  was  pleased  to  rise ;  then  we  saw  it  gra- 
dually illuminate  the  Lateran  and  the  Vatican,  and  other 
buildings  in  Home,  the  mountain  casting  a  long  shadow 
over  the  campagna.  We  had  ordered  the  servants  to 
bring  our  breakfast  after  us  to  the  top  of  the  hill,  but  I 
.  proposed  going  down  again  to  meet  it,  and  placing  our- 
selves in  the  beautiful  hall  of  the  Palazzo  Aldobrandini ; 
and  it  was  well  we  did  so,  for  it  was  eight  o'clock  before 
J  fresh  milk  was  to  be  had,  and  the  gentlemen  set  theni- 

■'  selves  to  playing  at  bowls,  the  children  led  the  ass  (which 

had  carried  their  aunt)  about  to  graze,  and  I  betook  myself 
in  the  corner  of  a  delightful  cid-fashioncd  leather  couch, 


254         LIFE  AND  LrTTERS  OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

and  slept  most  comfortably  till  the  coffee  came.  After  we 
had  made  an  enormous  breakfast,  the  bowls  were  again  put 
in  motion,  and  I,  and  the  children,  and  the  ass,  and  the 
servants,  and  the  baskets  with  empty  cups  and  plates, 
went  home,  and  I  set  myself  to  write, — and  after  dinner  I 
shall  be  quite  fresh  and  ready  to  take  another  walk  or  ride. 

"  Yesterday  we  were  equally  in  movoment  the  whole  day  : 
in  the  morning  I  was  sketching,  and  after  dinner  we  rode 
on  asses  to  Grotta  Ferrata,  and  saw  the  chapel  of  Domeni- 
chino.  We  came  home  after  dark,  and  then  received  an  in- 
vitation to  hear  an  Improvisatore  at  the  Casino  Piccolomini. 
The  name  of  our  host  is  Angiolotti,  a  rich  possuknte,  or 
farmer,  from  whom  and  his  wife  we  have  received  great 
civilities.  We  were  the  day  before  yesterday  at  their 
farm,  or  tenuta,  where  the  vintage  is  going  on.  They 
gave  us  ham,  and  cheese,  andfrittata  and  pizza,  and  wine, 
and  grapes  as  much  as  we  could  eat.  We  had  our  friend 
Beisiger  of  the  party,  and  he  played,  and  sang  German, 
and  the  vigneroli  sang  Italian.  We  had  the  nurse  with 
us,  who  rode  like  a  man  on  an  ass,  with  my  darling  before 
her,  who  enjoyed  the  party  as  much  as  anybody :  my  little 
Charles  rode  before  his  papa  or  Simon :  his  two  brothers 
ride  independently. 

"Some  days  ago  we  made  an  expedition  to  Monte  Cavo, 
the  highest  point  of  Monte  Albano,  where  there  is  a  monas- 
tery. The  monks  gave  us  bread  and  wine,  and  we  had  cold 
meat  and  grapes  with  us.  We  rode  down  on  the  other  side 
of  the  hill  towards  Albano,  where  the  carriage  met  us  in  the 
Galleria  di  sopra  by  the  Capuchin  convent :  wo  then  drove 
to  Castel-Gandolfo,  whence  we  went  down  to  the  brink  of 
the  lake  to  see  the  emissary,  and  returned  home  to  dinner 


\ 
\ 


THE   CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  255 

av^  o'clock.    Another  day  we  drove  to  Genzano,  Charles 
an(*  his  sister  and  Simon  and  myself  and  the  three  boys 
packed  in  the  carrottella :  my  darling  was  left  at  home 
tath  his  nurse  and  Angelina,  and  Kestner  rode  on  horse- 
back   My  Mother  will  remember  the  name  of  Kestner, 
whom  we  now  value  more  than  over,  since  he  has  been  our 
constant  companion  on  parties  of  pleasure  for  many  days 
successively,  without  ever  giving  opportunity  for  an  obser- 
vation as  to  his  character  that  was  not  to  his  credit.     "We 
had  provisions  for  dinner  with  us,  and  our  servant  Antonio 
to  cook,  therefore  all  we  wanted  in  Genzano  was  a  kitchen 
and  dining-room ;  but  on  our  arrival  we  found  the  rooms 
of  our  old  acquaintance  all  occupied,  and  were  glad  to  be 
conducted  by  Kestner  to  the  house  of  a  pomdente  whom  he 
had  formerly  known,  whose  wife  in  the  most  obliging 
1&anner  granted  us  all  we  wanted ;  she  was  a  very  hand- 
sale woman,  and  in  deportment,  I  had  almost  said,  a 
Princess.     While  our  dinner  was  preparing,  we  made  the 
tour  of  the  lake  of  Nemi  on  ass-back :  that  mirror  of  Diana 
48  *t  Was  called  (the  woods  and  a  temple  on  its  banks 
-tenng  been  in  ancient  times  consecrated  to  her)  never 
*Ppea*ed  to  greater  advantage,  for  there  were  light  fleecy 
°u<*sj    in  the  clear  October  sky,  which  produced  those 
^^^ional  false  shadows  which  I  must  always  long  for  in 
^X\£Xtain  scenery,  from  recollection  of  the  lakes  of  West- 
teland. 

"  I  shall  be  glad  at  last  to  return  to  our  own  dear  home, 
and  yet  our  pleasure  in  Frascati  has  been  so  altogether 
without  drawback,  that  I  could  almost  find  in  my  heart 
to  bo  afraid  of  what  may  follow  a  change  of  abode.  I 
have  had  time  to  read  here  too,  and  enjoy  most  extremely 


i 


256         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

a  German  translation  of  Herodotus.  I  have  also  enjoyed 
reading  in  the  Bible  more  than  I  have  time  to  do  at  home 
— I  mean,  time  uninterrupted,  and  to  read  with  interrup- 
tions is  of  little  avail.  I  have  been  greatly  struck  with 
many  historical  parts  of  the  Old  Testament,  which  in  con- 
nection I  have  not  read  for  years;  and  must  ask  my 
Mother  whether  she  does  not  think  the  narrative  of  Nehe- 
miah  most  particularly  touching." 

"Itome,  19  Oct. — "We  returned  home  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing, the  16th,  and  find  our  own  dear  house  very  delightful. 
My  boys  are  all  as  well  as  possible,  and,  at  present,  very 
good." 

"14  Feb.,  1826. — I  have  to  communicate  the  intelligence 
of  the  King's  having  bestowed  upon  Charles  the  order  of 
the  Bed  Eagle,  a  distinction  which  is  a  matter  of  much 
satisfaction,  as  indicating  the  favourable  dispositions  of  the 
King  and  his  ministers,  for  there  are  few  if  any  examples 
of  a  person  not  belonging  to  a  privileged  class  receiving  it 
after  so  short  a  period  of  service.  The  first  intelligence 
was  communicated  by  the  good  Baron  von  Reden,  now 
Hanoverian  Minister  at  Berlin ;  the  nomination  took  place 
on  the  18th  January,  and  last  week  the  cross  and  ribbon 
were  delivered  to  Charles  by  General  de  Lessel,  the  Aide- 
de-Camp  of  Prince  Henry  of  Prussia,  who  had  travelled 
from  Berlin  with  great  speed  to^turn  to  his  post.  Only 
the  day  after  the  arrival  of  this  decoration,  arrived  the 
intelligence  of  the  failure  of  the  banking-house  of  Benocke 
in  Berlin.  They  were  Charles's  agents  for  the  reception 
of  his  salary,  and  had  only  eleven  days  before  received  for 
him  his  quarter's  allowance,  for  which  they  had  transmitted 
a  bill  of  exchange,  which  bill  of  course  there  had  not  been 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  257 

time  to  negociate,  before  it  became  of  no  avail.  ...  I  wish 
that  I  may  prevail  upon  my  Mother  to  be  as  little  dis- 
turbed by  this  piece  of  ill-luck  as  I  am  myself ;  I  cannot 
possibly  deny,  when  I  state  the  case  to  myself,  that  it  is  a 
very  serious  thing,  and  that  as  we  have  never  yet  had  more 
than  enough  with  our  whole  year's  income,  I  cannot  explain 
how  we  are  to  have  enough  when  the  quarter's  salary  is 
wanting ;  yet  I  cannot  get  rid  of  the  feeling  that  we  shall 
not  need  the  lost  sum,  whether  it  shall  be  made  good,  in 
some  unforeseen  way,  or  whether  we  shall  be  able  to  do 
without  it.  All  accounts,  from  the  Baron  von  Beden  and 
others,  tend  to  prove  that  Count  Bernstorff,  as  well  as 
Prince  Wittgenstein,  uniformly  speak  of  Charles  with 
strong  expressions  of  esteem  for  his  character  and  conduct, 
and  something  approaching  to  admiration  for,  not  mere 
commendation  of,  his  talents  for  business ;  and  also  that 
the  great  liking  which  the  King  showed  towards  him  in 
Borne,  has  been  kept  up  more  than  could  have  been 
expected,  by  what  I  may  call  correspondence  since,  for  the 
King  reads  everything  he  writes  to  Berlin,  and  you  may 
readily  believe  that  what  he  writes  is  worth  reading.  So, 
my  own  Mother,  pray  hope  the  best  with  me,  and  do  not 
be  more  distressed  than  I  am. 

"  Lord  Sandon  left  Borne  on  Thursday,  taking  for  my 
Mother  a  sketch-book,  and  for  my  father  a  Latin  document, 
which  was  a  petite  attention  of  Monsignor  Marini  to  me. 
He  found  the  origiual  in  the  Papal  archives,  and  thought 
I  should  be  overjoyed  with  a  proof  that  a  person  bearing 
the  name  of  Waddington  held  a  situation  of  credit  in  the 
Church  in  the  early  part  of  the  reign  of  Henry  m.,  for 
that  is  the  date  of  the  document." 

vol.    I.  8 


258         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

"Ea*Ur  Sunday,  26  March,  1826.— M.  d'Olfers  in  here, 
with  his  amiable  wife,  on  his  way  to  the  Brazils  as  Charge 
d' Affaires.  He  has  been  for  two  years  attached  to  the 
Prussian  Legation  at  Naples,  his  connections  at  Berlin 
having?  reckoned  upon  getting  him  into  Charles's  post  at 
Borne,  an  arrangement  which  the  circumstance  of  his 
being  a  Catholic  would  at  any  time  have  rendered  impos- 
sible, for  the  business  of  the  Prussian  Legation  here 
could  not  in  many  respects  be  veil  got  through  by  a 
person  in  any  way  hampered  by  private  ties  to  the  Church 
of  Borne,  without  considering  the  important  point  of  the 
Protestant  Chapel,  which  could  not  be  kept  up  under  a 
Catholic  chef  de  Ugatim.  On  his  way  through  Borne  to 
Naples  with  Count  Fleming  two  years  ago,  he  and  Charles 
formed  a  personal  acquaintance  as  cordial  as  if  they  had 
not  stood  in  the  relation  of  a  sort  of  rivals  to  each  other, 
and  they  have  kept  up  from  time  to  time  a  degree  of 
correspondence,  which  I  hope  will  continue,  for  Olfere's 
letters  are  always  indescribably  entertaining.  Ho  is  one 
of  the  sort  of  men  that  I  know  my  Mother  would  like,  of 
sound  and  sterling  attainments,  and  polished  but  inarti- 
ficial manner,  with  a  great  deal  of  quiet  fun,  and  a  still- 
ness of  deportment  not  the  least  resulting  from  phlegm  or 
insensibility. 

"We  have  lately  to  our  groat  pleasure  formed  anew 
musical  acquaintance  of  the  name  of  Neukomm,  who  is 
eiimo  to  Itome  for,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  a  very  short  time, 
after  ft  singular  course  of  travels.  He  was  born  at  Saltr- 
burg,  end  became  a  pupil  of  Haydn  at  Vienna ;  his  first 
removal  from  Germany  was  to  become  Maettro  ii  Copp$* 
to  a  Russian  prince,  and  he  spent  some  years  between 


THE  CAPITOLIXB  COLONY.  259 

Petersburg  and  Moscow ;  after  which,  he  became  Maestro 
di  CappeUa  to  the  King  of  Portugal  when  in  Brazil,  but  the 
Court  having  a  decided  passion  for  waltz-masses,  Neukomm 
was  not  satisfied  to  remain  where  his  style  of  composition 
was  not  approved,  nor  satisfied  to  adopt  a  style  such  as 
could  have  secured  approbation,  wherefore  he  returned 
to  Europe,  and  has  ever  since  been  attached  to  the  Court 

of Talleyrand ! ! — who  is  said  to  rank  music  amongst 

the  luxuries  which  he  considers  worth  possessing  in  the 
highest  perfection.  With  Talleyrand  Neukomm  set  out 
towards  Rome,  but  the  former  having  found  the  weather 
not  to  his  taste,  remained  by  the  way  at  Nice,  allowing 
Neukomm  leave  of  absence  to  proceed  to  Borne  and 
Naples. 

"  On  Wednesday  in  Passion  Week  Neukomm  returned 
home  with  us  from  the  Sixtine  Chapel,  and  played  to  us  in 
a  manner  that  could  give  delight  even  after  the  Miserere. 
To  give  an  idea  of  his  playing,  I  must  describe  the  course 
of  my  own  feelings, — I  was  at  first  sorry  for  the  arrange- 
ment to  bring  him  home  with  us,  not  wishing  to  be 
disturbed,  and  only  reconciled  to  it  on  the  ground  of 
giving  pleasure  to  M.  d'Olfers,  who  had  known  and 
valued  Neukomm  for  years  as  a  man  as  well  f  as  a 
musician ;  but  from  the  moment  he  began  to  play,  I  was 
thankful  to  have  the  state  of  feeling  protracted,  which  had 
originated  in  the  Miserere.  He  played  airs  with  varia- 
tions of  his  own  composition  (amongst  others  '  See  the 
Conquering  Hero  comes '),  and  afterwards  gave  an  idea, 
as  far  as  one  pair  of  hands  and  a  very  feeble  voice  could 
give  an  idea,  of  passages  in  an  oratorio  which  he  has  this 
winter  composed,  but  which  has  never  yet  been  executed. 


260         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

The  words  are  selected  from  Elopstock's  Messiah,  and  the 
chorus  lie  played  to  us  is  grounded  on  the  passage  in 
Isaiah,  '  Who  is  He  ....  that  is  glorious  in  His  apparel, 
travelling  in  the  greatness  of  His  strength  ? — I  that  speak 
in  righteousness,  mighty  do  save ! ' — the  whole  to  be 
performed  by  a  choir  in  two  divisions,  answering  each 
other  in  the  manner  of  Handel's  '  Who  is  the  King  of 
Glory  ?— The  Lord  of  Hosts,  He  is  the  King  of  Glory ! ' 

"  0  my  Mother,  how  I  wish  you  could  see  Lady  Frances 
Sandon,  and  still  more,  know  her :  I  am  sure  you  would 
think  her  '  a  thing  of  other  times.'  She  seems  to  me 
to  realise  things  I  have  known  in  description — a  class  of 
women  to  which  the  finest  ladies  I  see  are  not  fit  to  be 
chambermaids.  She  goes  away  for  good  the  end  of  next 
month,  and  Heaven  knows  where,  or  when,  or  how,  we  shall 
meet  again,  but  I  shall  always  rejoice  in  the  indelible 
image  she  leaves,  of  a  species  of  creature  from  which 
every-day  women  are  as  different  as  negroes  from  whites. 

"  The  more  I  see  of  Lady  Bute,  the  more  I  am  con- 
vinced that  she  is  a  thoroughly  kind-hearted  and  well- 
principled  woman,  but  in  the  scale  of  human  beings  I  am 
sure  she  takes  an  inferior  rank  to  her  daughter,  who  is 
almost  an  angel." 

"25  April,  1826. — The  presence  of  M.  Neukomm  in 
Borne  is  a  very  great  pleasure  to  us,  and  we  make  the 
most  of  it  by  seeing  him  daily.  Independent  of  his  most 
extraordinary,  and  to  me  unequalled,  musical  talent,  he  is 
of  a  most  attaching  character,  and  has  those  sort  of  placid 
manners,  combined  with  rationality  and  intelligence  on 
all  subjocts,  which  make  a  person  a  welcome  inmate  at 
any  time  and  at  all  times.     Charles  takes  advantage  of 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  261 

this  delicious  weather  to  go  about  Borne  with  him,  and 
I  join  the  party  whenever  I  can.  This  winter  Charles 
has  formed  several  very  agreeable  English  acquaintances, 
all  through  the  Sandon  channel ;  first  and  foremost  Lord 
Binning,  with  whom  he  has  had  much  intercourse,  and 
for  whom  he  has  a  great  liking  and  value.  Further, 
Mr.  Egerton  Vernon,  a  son  of  the  Archbishop  of  York's ; 
two  Mr.  Smith's,  one  John  Abel,  the  other  Augustus, 
both  related  to  Lord  Carrington ;  and  a  Mr.  Bramston,  are 
all  persons  we  like  in  different  ways." 

On  the  1st  of  June,  Bunsen  joyfully  announced  to 
Mrs.  "Waddington  the  birth  of  a  daughter,  who  re- 
ceived the  name  of  Frances  from  her  god-mother,  Lady 
Frances  Sandon,  and  that  of  Helen  from  her  father's 
half-sister,  Madame  Miiller.  At  the  same  time  he  had 
the  gratification  of  telling  the  ever-kind  mother-in-law, 
who,  as  usual,  was  wishing  to  make  up  the  loss  he  had 
suffered,  that  the  sum  swallowed  up  by  the  Benecke 
bankruptcy,  had  been  graciously  made  good  by  the 
Zing. 

Madame  Buksex  to  her  Mother. 

"  12  July,  1826. — I  have  a  mind  to  write  down  some  of 
the  interruptions  of  the  morning,  to  give  my  Mother  an 
idea  of  the  day ;  a  thing  I  should  often  attempt,  were  it 
not  for  the  long  notes  of  explanation,  which  ought  to  be 
appended  to  each  name  that  will  occur.  I  was  up  at  six 
o'clock:  while  I  was  dressing,  Charles  slept  on,  and  I 
would  not  rouse  him,  because  for  the  last  few  days  he  had 
rested  too  little  and  run  about,  or  in  some  way  or  other 


262         LIFE    AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUKSEN. 

been  too  busy  in  the  beat  and  sirocco ;  as  soon  as  I  was 
dressed  however,  he  got  up,  and  went  out  on  horseback. 
Of  all  the  children,  Charles  alone  was  awake  and  up:  I 
therefore  proceeded  to  open  my  writing-desk  and  begin 
my  letter,  in  the  camera  gialla,  with  the  windows  open  and 
green  blinds  closed,  to  keep  out  the  sun  and  let  in  the  air : 
but  soon  Henry  and  Ernest  made  their  appearance,  and  I 
broke  off  from  my  letter  to  hear  them  say  their  prayers. 
Then  Charles  returned,  and  we  went  to  breakfast,  with 
Neukomm  (my  Mother  will  remember  the  name  of  the 
musical  composer,  whose  company,  as  well  as  his  music, 
delighted  us  so  much  at  Easter — he  has  since  been  at 
Naples,  and  is  now  with  us  again,  day  after  day,  as  before, 
and  every  part  of  the  family  looks  upon  him  as  belonging 
to  us).  The  place  where  we  breakfast  I  must  draw  some- 
time for  my  Mother,  I  can  now  only  describe  it  as  near  the 
loggia  where  the  water  is  drawn  up, — a  partition  has  been 
made  in  the  mangle-room  which  reserves  to  us  a  delight- 
ful little  gallery,  with  a  magnificent  prospect  and  fine  air 
without  the  morning  sun.  After  breakfast  I  went  to 
dress  my  little  angel,  but  by  the  way  met  a  messenger 
who  announced  that  a  certain  Klitsclie  was  seized  with  a 
fever.  This  person  is  established  in  the  house  of  the  late 
Bartholdy,  to  mount  guard  upon  the  valuable  collection  of 
antiquities,  until  the  heirs  shall  otherwise  have  disposed 
of  them.  Klitsche  came  to  Borne  a  year  and  a  half  ago 
with  the  false  notion  by  which  many  people  at  a  distance 
from  Borne  are  possessed,  that  here  institutions  accessible 
to  strangers  for  the  study  of  theology  were  to  bo  found : 
that  not  being  the  case,  his  condition  here  was  pretty 
nearly  destitute,  and  Charles  has  in  one  way  or  another 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  263 

helped  hin\  forward  (sometimes  procuring  him  employ- 
ment in  transcribing  deeds)  awaiting  a  favourable  oppor- 
tunity of  finding  a  better  provision  for  him.    These  few 
particulars  may  account  for  his  so  far,  after  a  fashion, 
belonging  to  us,  that  it  was  necessary  I  should  leave 
every  other  business  to   perform  the  most  needful,  of 
procuring  him  attendance;    wherefore  I    left  my  little 
angel  to  wait  in  her  night  things,  and  after  ordering  the 
carriage,  went  downstairs  to  Madame  Eggers  (whom  the 
children  call  Signora  Elisa* — and  who  is  always  willing 
and  able  to  give  counsel  and  assistance,  to  ask  whether  she 
supposed  I  could  obtain  the  help  of  a  woman,  of  whom  she 
knew  more  than  I  did,  and  settled  that  we  should  go -together 
to  fetch  her;  then  I  came  up  again  to  make  a  hundred 
arrangements  to  keep  the  wheels  of  government  in  motion 
during  the  interregnum,  and  hold  seven  hundred  and  one 
conferences  with  Antonio  about  dinner,  with  an  interlude 
of  rummaging  amongst  the  dust  of  the  bookshelves  for  a 
pamphlet   for   Charles,    'Sur  l'Orgue  expressif   de    M. 
Grcnier.'    Then  I  packed  Charles  the  less  with  Madame 
Eggers  and  myself  into  the  carrettella,  in  order  to  lessen  the 
number  of  jarring  elements  left  at  home,  and  proceeded 
to  bespeak  the  physician,  fetch  the  woman  as  nurse,  and 
establish  her  by  the  sick  person.    Then  I  proceeded  to 
one  or  two  shops,  being  on  the  way,  and  returned  home 
at  twelve,  found  a  new  cap  which  my  sister-in-law  had 
ordered,   and  went  up  to  her  bedside    to  explain  and 
interpret,  and  hear  whether  it  was  right,  after  listening  to 
the  narrative  of  the  manner  in  which  she  had  passed  the 

*  H.  Eggers,  the  landscape  painter,  afterwards  settled  in  Berlin, 
His  sons  were  tho  authors  of  a  Life  of  Rauch  tho  Sculptor. 


264         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

night — the  heats,  and  the  chills,  and  the  ups  and  downs. 
Then  I  drossed  my  sweet  girl,  settled  her  three  eldest 
brothers  to  sleep  (George  was  put  to  bed  by  Angelina),  and 
was  thankful  to  lie  down  on  my  own  bed.    At  two  o'clock 
with  some  difficulty  I  waked,  and  before  three  collected 
the  whole  family  from  all  corners  of  the  house  at  dinner ; 
after  dinner,  consultations  with  Antonio  about  things  to 
be  sent  to  Klitsche,  directions  to  Agnese  about  work,  part 
the  first  of  a  discourse  with  my  sister-in-law  about  a 
ruff  and  a  hat,  luckily  broken  off  by  Neukomm's  offer- 
ing to  hear  me  practise,  an  offer  I  am  always  rejoiced  to 
accept.    I  excused  myself  from  driving  out,  haying  been 
out  already,  sent  Charles  the  less  and  George  with  my 
sister-in-law  and  her  friend  Augusta  Klein,  and  Henry 
and  Ernest  into  Madame    Eggers's  garden.      At  eight 
o'clock  everybody  returned,  I  gave    the  children  their 
supper,  heard  their  prayers,  and  took  them  to  bed :  and 
at  last  came  to  my  corner  of  the  couch,  the  rest  of  the 
party  being  my  sister-in-law,  Charles,   Neukomm,    and 
Kestner.     I  sat  lazy,  instead  of  working  as  usual,  with 
my  Mother's  candle-screen,  with  impressions  of  leaves, 
before  me,  to  save  my  eyes,  which  were  quite  tired  with 
puzzling  at  the  score  of  Judas  Maccabeus,  which  Neukomm 
had  insisted  on  my  making  out.    After  looking  at   the 
moon,  the  two  glorious  planets,  and  the  Mont'  Albano  in 
the  summer  night,  at  a  quarter  past  ten  I  went  to  bed." 

"16  August,  1826. — I  have  a  long  story  to  relate  to  my 
Mother,  which  I  have  as  yet  delayed,  from  not  liking  to 
tell  her  that  Charles  had  committed  an  act  which  I  con- 
sidered imprudent  and  extravagant,  but  I  will  now  state 
his  sin  in  all  its  magnitude,  and  leave  her  to  find  an 


THE   CAPIT0L1NE   COLONY.  265 

excuse  for  him.    Ho  has  thought  proper  to  order  from 
Paris  what  is  called  an  orgue  expressif,  the  new  invention 
of  M.  Grenier,  having  fallen  in  love  with  the  description 
made  by  Neukomm  of  this  extraordinary  instrument.    I 
stated  my  opinion  that  the  measure  was  imprudent,  he- 
cause  it  was  highly  improbable  that  after  Neukomm  had 
left  us  we  should  ever  hear  the  organ  again,  for  it  would 
he  difficult  to  find  a  dilettante  who  understood  the  art  of 
managing  it,  and  as  for  me,  in  my  old  age,  with  five 
children,  it  was  too  much  to  expect  that  I  should  accom- 
plish learning  to  play  upon  a  new  instrument,   never 
having  yet  been  a  proficient  in  playing  on  the  old  one. 
Further,  I  insisted  that  it  was  extravagant,  to  incur  a 
great  expense,  calculating  upon  being  able  to  save  it  up 
in  the  course  of  the  year.     To  all  my  wisdom  Charles 
replied  by  a  number  of  sophisms,  but  maintained  the 
point '  that  once  for  all,  wo  must  have  an  orgue  exprmif, 
and  that  if  we  must  have  one,  it  was  the  best  economy  to 
have  it  at  once,  for  then  we  had  more  time  to  enjoy  it  in 
our  lives.'  Wherefore  I  withdrew  my  opposition,  the*  organ 
was  ordered  in  April  last,  but  having  first  a  packing  to 
undergo,  and  then  a  long  journey  to  make,  did  not  arrive 
till  Tuesday  the  8th  of  August.    Neukomm  delayed  his 
journey  for  the  sake  of  enabling  us  to  hear  the  organ  once 
in  perfection,  although  thereby  greatly  diminishing  the 
time  he  had  allotted  for  the  north  of  Italy  and  Switzer- 
land, having  fixed  to  be  in  France  at  latest  the  end  of 
September.      The  effect  of   this   instrument   is  beyond 
description,  it  is  capable  of   unlimited  expression,   the 
sound  being  produced  by  the  gradual  pressure  of  the  feet 
alternately  upon  two  pedals,  and  the  tones  are  soft  and 


266         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

swelling  like  those  of  the  human  voice  when  in  great 

perfection,  or  like  the  most  exquisite  wind  instruments. 

When    hearing   Neukomm    play,  I   continually  caught 

myself   holding   my  breath,   as  when  listening    to  the 

Miserere  in  the  Sixtine  Chapel.    As  to  my  own  prospect  of 

learning  to  play  upon  it,  I  am  happy  to  say  that  in  these 

ten  days  I  have  already  surmounted  some  part  of  the 

difficulty,  which  consists  in  the  movement  of  the  feet,  and 

have  good  hopes  of  proceeding  f  urthor ;  «nd  the  delight 

of  touching  it  is  so  great,  that  I  shall  only  be  in  danger 

of  giving  up  more  time  to  it  than  I  really  have  to  spare. 

It  has  made  furore  in  Borne,  the  Cardinal  Secretary  of 

State  was  enchanted,   and  began  to  sing  himself  from 

excess  of  delight :  the  Maestro  di  Cappella  Baini  said  it 

brought  him  into  a  cold  sweat  and  that  he  could  not  stand 

it  if  he  was  to  hear  it  every  day ;  Monsignor  Capaccini 

(who  was  private  secretary  to  Consalvi  and  wrote  all  his 

dispatches)  ordered  such  another  organ  full  speed  for 

himself :  and  the  Corps  Diplomatique  was  out  of  its  wits 

for  admiration.      I  must  not  forget  to  state  that   the 

expense  did  not  turn  out  as  great  as  I  expected,  for, 

including  the  carriage  from  Paris,  it  amounted  to  ninety 

pounds  sterling:   yet  the  instrument  is  as  perfect  as  to 

make  and  materials,  as  a  piece'  of  furniture,  as  in  sound." 

11  6  Sept.,  1826. — I  wish  I  could  here  give  a  shadow  of 

the  darling  figure,  in  a  great  brown  pinafore  (sent  by 

grandmamma  for  Ernest),  that  is  now  trotting  near  me, 

enjoying  in  stillness  the  condescension  of   his  brother 

Charles  in  playing  without  plaguing  him>  as  is  too  often  the 

case ;  to  me  it  is  a  great  gain  when  Charles  is  so  gracious, 

for  then  I  can  keep  both  my  little  boys  with  me  (the 


THE   CAPITOLIiNE   COLONY.  267 


elder  brothers  are  with  Simon),  otherwise  I  am  compelled 
to  interpose  and  part  them,  and  at  length  banish  my 
George  to  the  maids,  who  can  sometimes  keep  him  good 
and  happy,  whereas  Charles  is  nothing  less  than  'the 
Doil  himsel '  with  people  whom  he  does  not  acknowledge 
have  a  right  to  direct  him:  I  maintain  my  sovereignty 
after  a  fashion,  but  it  costs  me  many  a  hard  battle.  My 
George,  and  his  little  sister,  are  the  matter  of  unmixed 
delight ;  there  never  was  any  creature  more  alive  to  all 
impressions  than  that  dear  boy,  he  shows  me  the  clouds 
when  the  sun  is  setting,  points  to  the  river  and  gazes  at 
it,  watches  the  course  of  a  flight  of  birds  overhead,  and 
his  great  enchantment  is  a  herd  of  oxen  grazing:  he 
strokes  and  caresses  his  little  sister,  laughs  loud  at  her 
motions,  and  shows  her  to  everybody.  Ho  cannot  bear  to 
hear  one  of  his  brothers  cry,  and  the  only  thing  he  takes 
very  ill  of  me  is  punishing  Charles.  I  begin  to  expect 
that  in  process  of  time  ho  will  speak,  for  he  now  utters  all 
sorts  of  sounds,  and  seems  to  have  attained  the  idea  that 
by  means  of  sounds  as  well  as  signs  he  may  make  himself 
understood. 

"  I  had  not  time  in  my  last  letter  to  make  a  statement 
in  qualification  of  the  impression  I  produced  by  mention- 
ing playing  in  score :  my  Mother  must  not  form  too  mag- 
nificent notions  on  the  subject,  it  is  like  a  child's  spelling 
out  words  in  a  language  it  does  not  understand ;  to  be 
able  to  give  to  the  words  their  proper  tone  and  accent, 
and  to  the  sentences  their  meaning,  it  would  require  to 
be  much  further  advanced  than  I  am ;  still,  although  it  is 
a  great  matter  of  doubt  whether  I  shall  ever  find  time 
folly  to  turn  to  account  the  instructions  of  Neukomm,  the 


2G8         LIFE   AND   LETTERS    OF    BARONESS   BUNSEX. 

trouble  he  took  with  me  has  been  of  essential  use.  As 
of  late  years  we  have  many  times  made  attempts  to  get 
people  to  sing,  I  have  often  practised  writing  out  parts  in 
the  different  keys,  and  therefore  could  read  them :  but 
when  Neukomm  insisted  upon  it  that  if  I  would,  I  could 
play  a  piece  of  music  in  which  the  notes  were  to  be  sought 
out  of  four  different  sets  of  lines,  and  written  in  four 
different  keys,  I  never  believed  it  would  be  possible  in 
any  degree ;  however,  a  few  days'  practice  convinced  me 
of  the  contrary,  and  I  hope  in  time  to  learn  at  least  to 
play  what  I  have  picked  out  with  him :  even  should  I 
never  do  that,  the  practice  of  the  score  has  had  the 
advantage  of  making  other  tilings  appear  comparatively 
easy.  My  obligations  to  Neukomm  are  very  great  in 
enabling  me  to  enjoy,  and  making  Charles  enjoy,  the 
delicious  organ :  I  get  to  it  at  odd  half -hours  often  in  the 
day,  the  pleasure  of  touching  it  is  greater  and  greater, 
and  I  obtain  great  praise  for  my  progress :  I  must  tell  my 
Mother  that  M.  Neukomm  always  insisted  upon  it  that  I 
should  play  well  upon  the  organ,  although  in  the  three 
days  which  elapsed  between  its  arrival  and  his  departure, 
I  was  far  from  producing  a  tolerable  tone:  as  he  is  a 
great  Gall-ist,  perhaps  he  was  led  to  the  conviction  by 
having  detected  (as  he  asserted)  the  organ  of  music  plainly 
in  my  forehead.  I  wish  my  Mother  might  ever  know 
Neukomm,  as  well  as  hear  him  play;  his  gift  of  pro- 
ducing music  I  know  would  be  a  feast  to  her  beyond 
everything,  but  I  cannot  doubt  her  liking  himself.  He 
has  stood  the  test  of  being  our  daily  inmate  for  two 
months  at  a  stretch,  without  reckoning  the  time  of  his 
being  in  Borne  at  Easter ;  and  at  last  all  of  us  were  as 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  269 

melancholy  at  his  departure,  and  missed  him  as  much  at 
breakfast  and  dinner,  in  walks  and  drives,  and  in  quiet 
evening  conversations,  as  if  he  had  belonged  to  us  for  years, 
so  perfectly  did  he  suit  every  individual  of  such  a  set  of 
creatures-  as  we  are :  all  our  acquaintance,  however  dis- 
similar, delighted  in  him,  and  Thorwaldsen  in  particular 
quite  worshipped  him. 

"I  have  this  year  made  the  acquaintance  of  Sir  William 
Gell:  Charles  had  known  him  longer.  He  is  a  cripple 
from  gout,  and  was  obliged  to  bo  carried  up  our  staircase : 
he  however  causes  himself  to  be  lifted  upon' a  horse,  and 
then  takes  enormous  rides  of  discovery  in  this  most  un- 
discovered country.  He  has  found  many  interesting  ruins 
of  ancient  cities,  hitherto  unknown  to  antiquarians,  is 
actively  engaged  in  making  a  map  of  Latium,  and  interests 
himself  greatly  in  the  study  of  hieroglyphics,  according  to 
Champollion*" 

"16  Nov.,  1826. — From  the  quantity  of  things  I  have 
had  to  do  since  we  returned  home  on  the  1st  of  November, 
accounts  to  be  put  in  order,  a  few  visits  made,  an  immense 
number  received,  and  an  expedition  to  the  Papal  Chapel  to 
hear  the  Dies  Ira  of  Pittoni, — have  so  filled  up  the  short 
mornings,  that  I  scarcely  know  when  I  have  been  more 
hurried  to  less  purpose,  for  so  much  remains  to  be  done, 
that  I  feel  as  if  nothing  was  done.  And  in  the  evenings 
we  have  so  seldom  been  free  from  casual  visitors,  that  it 
is  not  often  I  have  accomplished  playing  on  the  delicious 
organ,«— but  it  goes  on  well,  my  Mother,  and  I  can  play 
some  things  upon  it  with  satisfaction  to  myself.  How  I 
thank  my  Mother  for  enjoying  the  accounts  of  it,  it  is 
indeed  a  great  delight  in  life." 


270         LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF    BARONESS 

"  14  March,  1827. — I  had  last  week  an  impediment  in 
writing  to  my  own  dearest  Moth  or,  of  which  she  will  be 
surprised  and  pleased  to  hear, — a  journey  to  Orvieto,  re- 
solved upon  in  a  moment,  executed  at  once,  and  which 
turned  out  admirably.  We  had  spoken  of  going  there 
pretty  nearly  every  year  for  the  last  five,  but  the  difficulty 
of  moving  all  together,  or  of  separating,  always  prevented 
our  doing  so,  and  the  distance  being  seventy  miles,  we 
should  probably  never  have  accomplished  going  there,  had 
we  not  made  up  our  minds  to  leave  the  children  in  the  care 
of  Simon,  and  set  off  as  a  trio  with  post-horses.  On  Wed- 
nesday, 7  March,  we  left  Borne  at  half -past  six,  Henry  and 
Ernest  accompanying  us  as  far  as  the  door,  Charles  in  his 
shirt  and  muffled  up  in  a  shawl  causing  himself  to  be 
carried  to  the  staircase  window,  my  darling  George  asleep, 
and  my  angel  of  a  girl  sitting  upright  in  bed,  with  two 
eyes  wide  open,  waiting  for  tho  nurse  to  dress  her.  As  far 
as  Montefiascone,  our  road  was  the  same  as  that  by  which 
my  own  dearest  Mother  travelled  away  from  Borne,  and  I 
think  however  little  in  a  state  her  mind  then  was  for  en- 
joyment, she  must  with  her  eyes  have  observed  the  beau- 
tiful situation  of  Bonciglione,  where  the  road  begins  to 
ascend  the  mountain  on  the  other  side  of  which  Titerbo  is 
situated,  and  have  taken  in  the  exquisite  expanse  of  the 
Lake  of  Vico,  which  in  for  a  long  time  visible  during  the 
passage  of  the  mountain;  and  then  she  will  the  better 
guess  the  sensations  of  pleasure  with  which  I  viewed  them ; 
pleasure  resulting  from  many  causes,  the  sensation  of 
breaking  tho  ice  as  to  a  journey,  such  as  in  ten  years  and  a 
half  I  have  not  made,  not  to  be  forgotten  amongst  them. 
We  arrived  so  early  at  Viterbo  that  we  might  have  pro- 


_       I 


THE  CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  271 

ceeded  further,  but  preferred  walking  about  to  see  the 
churches  and  prospects,  while  our  dinner  was  getting 
ready,  and  remaining  in  the  very  excellent  inn  that  night. 
The  weather  was  delightful,  but  like  that  of  a  fine  early 
spring  day  in  England,  the  sky  not  being  in  a  state  of 
Italian  clearness ;  and  the  sort  of  air,  the  outline  of  the 
hills  about  the  Lake  of  Yico,  the  effect  of  the  unclothed 
woods,  casting  a  shadowy  brown  tinge,  altogether  brought 
me  back  not  less  than  twenty  years ! — to  the  journey  from 
Tenby  just  at  the  same  time  of  year,  and  the  effect  of  the 
hills  of  Dynevor,  Dreslin  Castle,  and  the  Towy  in  the  vale 
of  Caermarthen. 

"At  Viterbo  we  found  two  friends,  one  of  them  Maytell, 
whose  name  I  may  perhaps  have  mentioned  as  a  person 
whom  we  greatly  valued.     He  is  a  Bussian  subject,  but  of 
German  extraction  and  education,  and  had  the  day  before 
taken  leave  of  us  to  return  to  his  native  country,  the  pro- 
vince of  Liefland  (also  the  country  of  Baron  Btackelberg) ; 
and  his  intention  of  going  to  Orvieto  in  the  first  place,  was 
the  reason  that  pinned  us  down  to  this  precise  day  for  our 
expedition.   On  Thursday  morning  at  sunrise  we  proceeded 
from  Viterbo  to  Montefiascone,  where  we  walked  about  to 
see  the  churches,  and  the  exquisite  prospect  from  one  of 
the  gates  towards  the  Lake  of  Bolsena,  and  then  went  on 
to  Orvieto,  which  is  eighteen  miles  distant,  magnificently 
situated  on  an  insulated  hill  in  the  midst  of  a  valley,  which 
'appears  like  a  park  surrounding  a  castle,  and  is  enclosed 
by  most  picturesque  hills,  surmounted  in  the  distance  by 
snow-capped  mountains:  the  town  is  mounted  on  a  per- 
pendicular  rock,   and  has   no    need  of   other  walls  of 
enclosure.    "We  spent  the  whole  remainder  of  the  day  in 


272         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

and  about  the  magnificent  cathedral,  which  even  surpassed 
the  expectations  we  had  formed;  the  next  morning  we 
were  there  again  by  seven  o'clock,  returned  to  the  inn  at 
nine  to  breakfast,  and  spent  the  remainder  of  the  time  till 
we  left  Orvieto  at  two  o'clock,  in  re-examining  the  paint- 
ings of  Luca  Signorelli,  Fiesole,  and  Pietro  Perugino,  in 
one  of  the  chapels  of  the  cathedral.  The  weather,  which 
had  hitherto  favoured  us,  now  changed  for  the  worse,  and 
we  returned  to  Yiterbo  through  an  absolute  hurricane. 
After  resting  there  that  night,  we  reached  Home  in  safety 
and  prosperity  at  three  o'clock  on  Saturday  the  11th, 
although  the  prospect  of  the  Lake  of  Yico,  so  peaceful  and 
sunshiny  three  days  before,  was  obscured  by  a  storm 
of  rain  and  wind  accompanied  by  thunder,  lightning,  and 
hail,  through  which  we  traversed  the  mountain  of  Viterbo. 
I  came  first  up  the  staircase,  in  the  midst  of  which  Henry 
met  me,  a  little  further  stood  Charles,  waiting  till  I  came 
to  him,  then  came  Angelina  with  George,  and  the  nurse 
with  my  darling.  Ernest  had  not  been  allowed  to  move 
out  of  his  room,  for  he  is  suffering  from  his  eyes,  which 
has  been  a  great  means  of  preventing  my  writing  since  my 
return  home.  I  am  accustomed  to  scramble  on  with 
various  employments  with  only  Charles  and  George  to 
interrupt,  but  the  addition  of  a  third,  between  whom  and 
each  several  brother  I  must  keep  the  peace,  and  for  whom 
I  must  find  occupation  without  exertion  of  the  eyes,  is  a 
great  addition  to  the  distraction  of  attempting  any  occupa- 
tion requiring  the  thoughts.  Independent  of  children  I 
have  had  a  succession  of  things  which  have  scarcely  left 
me  breathing-time.  Some  of  these  interruptions  I  shall 
try  to  note  down,  because  I  know  my  Mother  likes  to  have 


THE   CAPIT0L1NE   COLONY.  273 

that  sort  of  peep  into  my  daily  existence.    The  first  thing 
after  breakfast,  when  I  was  about  to  take  out  my  letter  to 
write,  I  found  I  had  three  or  four  notes  or  packets,  books 
or  newspapers,  to  write  or  fold,  seal  up  and  dispatch ;  each 
was  nothing,  but  all  together  made  something  as  to  time ; 
that  ended,  kitchen  discourse;  then,  interview  the  first 
with  the  Banderaro,  or  upholsterer,  about  a  leather  cover 
for  the  organ,  about  which  the  Banderaro  ought  to  have 
come  before,  but  it  is  a  rule,  that  everybody  is  sure  to  come 
on  the  morning  when  I  have  to  write.    I  had  dispatched 
the  Banderaro,  when  Charles  called  me  to  a  consultation, 
about  a  letter  to  be  written,  a  plan  to  be  formed  and  an 
appointment  made  for  going  out,  and  an  invitation  to  be 
sent  for  next  day :  the  consultation  ended,  I  was  in  full 
retreat  towards  my  writing-box,  when  it  was  announced 
that  the  milliner  was  waiting,  having  brought  two  caps  for 
me,  one  for  my  sister-in-law,  and  a  wadded  quilted  white 
silk  bonnet  for  my  sweet  girl ;  I  might  to  be  sure  have 
bid  her  leave  the  things,  and  said  I  would  send  the  money, 
but  knowing  her  to  be  a  widow,  and  poor,  I  felt  bound 
to  examine,  speak,  hear,  and  pay ;  had  just  finished  when 
my  sister-in-law  came  down — a  narrative  of  health,  or  I 
should  say  sickness,  but  short.    In  the  midst  of  this,  a  poor 
Swiss  with  three  children  announced — and  thereby  hangs 
an  explanation.   This  individual,  of  whom  I  knew  nothing 
before,  belongs  to  a  class  of  the  necessitous  that  particu- 
larly excite  my  compassion,  and  have  for  the  last  two 
years  been  extremely  numerous.    In  some  of  the  Swiss 
cantons,  and  many  of  the  southern  parts  of  Germany,  the 
philosophers  who  speak  so  wisely  about  checking  the  in- 
crease of  population,  have  brought  about  a  law  prohibit- 

VOL.  I.  T 


274         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

ing  marriage  unless  the  parties  can  prove  themselves 
possessed  of  a  certain  capital ;  the  consequence  of  this  law 
has  been  in  the  countries  themselves,  as  I  have  heard,  that 
couples  come  together  as  before,  but  in  most  cases,  hold 
themselves  exonerated  from  the  marriage  ceremony:  in 
those  cases  when  a  scruple  of  conscience  occurs  after  the 
connection  has  been  formed,  they  have  nothing  to  do  but 
to  expose  themselves  to  the  complicated  distress  of  a  dis- 
tant journey  for  the  purpose  of  being  married,  and  just 
because  they  have  no  means  of  subsistence  but  their  daily 
labour,  with  other  details,  it  may  be  guessed  what  cases 
of  misery  occur — the  risk  of  sickness  and  absolute  destitu- 
tion in  every  instance,  not  to  mention  the  degrading  neces- 
sity of  begging,  for  persons  whose  appearance  and  deport- 
ment denotes  their  having  been  accustomed  to  honest 
independence.  I  was  glad  the  other  day  to  have  expatiated 
on  this  philosophical  iniquity  to  Mr.  Empson,  the  successor 
of  Sir  J.  Mackintosh  in  the  East  India  College,  who  seemed 
struck  by  the  details  I  gave.  To  return  from  this  digres- 
sion, the  Swiss  was  to  be  spoken  to,  and  some  odds  and 
ends  rummaged  out  for  her  and  her  children ;  then  came 
the  Banderaro  again,  in  superfluity  of  zeal  to  show  patterns 
of  leather  for  the  organ-cover :  then  the  children's  dinner 
was  ready,  then  I  ran  to  help  Charles  to  seal  for  the  post, 
then  in  all  haste  ate  my  bason  of  gruel  with  the  yolk  of  an 
egg  and  sugar  beat  into  it — my  usual  luncheon :  then  put 
on  my  hat  and  pelisse,  at  the  same  time  keeping  the  peace 
during  the  toilet  of  Charles  and  George,  who  went  with 
me  to  form  their  taste  (or  more  properly  to  be  kept  out  of 
mischief)  at  the  Vatican ;  heard  that  Charles  was  engaged 
with  a  Mr.  Middleton,  who  had  brought  him  a  letter  from 


THE   CAPITOLINE  COLONY,  275 


Sir  W.  Gell,  and  went  in  to  show,  not  myself,  but  my  hat 
and  veil,  and  to  give  Mr.  Middleton  a  hint  to  go  :  the  hint 
after  a  quarter  of  an  hour  took  effect,  and  then  we  set  off, 
Charles  on  horseback  with  Kestner,  the  rest  in  the  carret- 
tella,  Henry  on  foot  with  Simon,  Ernest  provided  with 
company  in  Albert  and  George  Eggers:  my  sweet  girl 
dispatched  to  walk  with  Angelina.  The  day  was  glorious, 
and  the  Vatican  beamed  and  glowed  in  sunshine.  I  could 
not  however  get  far  in  the  gallery,  so  was  I  fagged  with 
the  morning's  scramble,  at  which  you  will  not  wonder." 

"31  March,  1827. — I  wish  beginning  to  write  so  many 
days  before  the  post-day  might  secure  my  dispatching  a 
letter  with  somewhat  fewer  omissions  of  things  I  wish  and 
intend  to  say,  than  usual. — The  sentence,  thus  begun,  is 
finished  to-day  the  3rd  April — a  plain  proof  how  far 
I  can  reckon  upon  my  days ;  since  the  first  words,  I  have 
driven  through  the  time  that  has  elapsed,  or  more 
properly  been  driven,  with  the  sensation  of  passing  from 
one  necessary  division  of  the  day  to  another  with  such 
rapidity  as  to  become  dizzy  and  scarcely  recollect  what  is 
the  most  necessary  thing  to  be  done  next,  so  rarely  is  my 
occupation  a  matter  of  choice  and  selection ;  this  I  do  not 
state  as  matter  of  complaint,  but  matter  of  fact  and  of 
self-justification,  not  towards  my  Mother,  who  does  not 
require  it,  but  towards  myself,  who  often  unjustly  com- 
plain of  myself  for  leaving  undone  so  much  that  I  wish  to 
do.  My  present  vexation  is,  that  I  do  not  expect  to  be 
able  to  manage  to  give  any  sign  of  actual  existence,  in  the 
shape  of  scratch  or  smear  on  paper,  to  be  conveyed  to 
England  by  one  who  could  have  taken  it  safely.  What  I 
▼anted  to  have  done,  and  considered  most  feasible,  would 


276        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

have  been  a  coloured  sketch  of  the  inside  of  oar  sitting- 
rooms,  which  I  think  would  enable  my  Mother  more  than 
anything  else  to  figure  it  all  to  herself.  On  two  different 
mornings,  when  I  felt  as  if  I  could  '  catch  a  minute  by 
the  tail  and  hold  it  fast/  I  began  to  cut  a  sheet  of  draw- 
ing-paper, and  look  after  pencil  and  crow-quills, — but  as 
if  the  said  minute  had  been  resolved  to  laugh  me  to  scorn 
for  pretending  to  dispose  of  it  at  my  pleasure,  not  till  late 
the  same  evening,  on  the  way  to  bed,  did  I  secure  the 
needful  number  of  seconds  to  settle  the  litter  I  had  then 
made — far  enough  from  executing  the  intention  with 
which  I  had  made  it. 

"  Mr.  Erskine  has  been  some  time  in  Borne,  and  I  was 
greatly  gratified  to  find  that  he  met  us  both  just  at  the 
point  where  we  parted,  though  we  have  had  no  communi- 
cation with  him  in  the  interval ;  he  is  a  very  remarkable 
and  most  interesting  person,  of  whose  individuality  it  is 
difficult  to  give  an  idea  by  description ;  there  is  a  sort  of 
high- wrought  spirituality  about  him,  without  a  shadow  of 
affectation  of  singularity ;  he  never  dwells  for  a  moment 
on  mere  decencies  or  commonplaces,  but  proceeds  naturally 
and  at  once  to  matters  of  thought  and  feeling.  But  he  is 
at  present  quite  forastico,  and  not  to  be  caught." 

On  the  29th  of  May,  1827,  Madame  Bunsen  gave 
birth  to  her  second  daughter,  christened  Emilia,  after 
her  lost  sister,  Mrs.  Manley.  It  was  at  the  same  time 
that  Dr.  Arnold,  of  Bugby,  paying  a  short  and  hasty 
visit  to  Borne  with  some  pupils,  laid  the  foundation  of 
his  great  friendship  with  Bunsen.  Later  in  the  summer 
the  family  moved  to  Castel  Gandolfo. 


THE  CAPITOLINE   COLONY.  277 

Mabamb  Btjnsex  to  her  Mother. 

"15  August,  1827,   Castd  Gandolfo.— The  idea  of  the 
bare  possibility  of  my  seeing  here  all  those  beings,  who 
have  so  occupied  and  do  so  occupy  my  thoughts,  but  who 
for  so  many  years  have  existed  to  me  but  in  the  visions  of 
recollection  and  imagination — has  scarcely  been  out  of  my 
thoughts:   I  have  not  looked  at  one  of   the  children, 
without  considering  how  they  are  likely  severally  to  strike 
my  Mother:  I  have  not  looked  at  Charles,  without  endea- 
vouring to  measure  the  alteration  (even  to  myself  a  very 
sensible  one)  which  ten  years  have  brought  about ;  I  have 
counted  the  lines  in  my  own  face,  as  far  as  I  could  with 
such  a  looking-glass  as  our  present  residence  affords ;  I 
have  not  looked  within  at  the  rooms,  nor  out  of  the 
windows,  of  our  present  delightful  place  of  abode,  without 
speculating  on  my  father  and  mother  inhabiting  it  with 
us,  with  Augusta  Charlotte  and  Hanbury.* 

"  An  accident  befell  Ernest  on  the  4th  of  August,  which 
I  Trill  begin  mth  saying,  passed  off  most  happily,  and 
then  my  Mother  will  feel  a  less  shock  on  hearing  that  he 
broke  his  arm.  We  set  out  very  late  (from  Castel  Gan- 
dolfo), that  is  to  say  a  short  time  before  sunset,  on 
account  of  the  heat,  to  walk  in  the  Galleria  di  Sopra,  the 
shady  avenue  which  leads  to  Albano  along  the  ridge  of 
the  basin  of  the  lake.  Our  party  consisted  of  Charles  and 
myself,  Mr.  Erskine,  Mr.  Simon,  and  the  four  boys, 
followed  by  the  servant  Nicola.  We  had  just  passed  the 
gate  of  the  Yilla  Barberini,  when  the  three  eldest  boys 

*  The  infant  children  of  her  sister,  Mrs.  Hall,  afterwards  Lady 
Llanover.  It  was  November,  1829,  before  the  meeting  really  took 
place. 


278         LITE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


ran  with.  Nicola  a  few  steps  down  a  narrow  path  going 
from,  or  rather  lower  than  the  main  road,  having  called 
upon  him  to  make  them  whips ;  we  then  perceived  some 
loose  horses  coming  after  us,  and  the  man  who  was  with 
them  answered  to  a  question  of  Nicola,  that  they  were  to 
go  along  the  narrow  path  which  the  children  had  entered, 
wherefore  we  all  at  the  same  moment  summoned  the 
children  to  come  out  of  their  way.  My  attention  was 
occupied  by  George,  who  stood  just  at  the  entrance  of  the 
narrow  path,  and  just  before  the  horses'  feet,  but  Mr. 
Erskine  was  quicker  than  myself  in  springing  to  seize 
him.  In  the  meantime  the  other  three  boys  were  making 
their  escape  up  the  bank  to  get  into  the  main  road,  Nicola 
helping  Charles  as  the  youngest,  and  supposed  more  help- 
less, when  Ernest's  foot  slipped,  and  he  fell,  upwards. 
The  whole  was  the  occurrence  of  a  moment,  and  when  I 
turned  my  head  from  witnessing  the  safety  of  George,  I 
heard  him  scream,  and  while  seeing  him  lifted  on  his  feet 
by  Nicola,  saw  what  had  happened,  so  that  I  answered 
Charles's  exclamation  of  '  What's  the  matter  ? '  by  saying, 
'  He  has  broken  his  arm,  I  see  it.'  Nicola  took  him  up 
in  his  arms,  and  I  made  a  sling  of  the  silk  handkerchief  I 
had  in  the  bag  which  contained  my  sketch-book :  he  con- 
tinued to  scream  and  I  said  to  him,  '  My  boy,  God  has 
suffered  this  to  happen,  and  God  will  help  you,  don't  you 
know  that?'  upon  which  he  became  quiet,  and  from 
that  moment  never  cried  or  complained:  a  circumstance 
which  I  can  never  recall  without  the  tears  starting  to  my 
eyes,  from  thankfulness  that  he  should  already  be  capable 
of  being  quieted  under  suffering  by  confidence  in  divine 
support.     As  we  passed  through  the  street  of  Castello, 


THE  CAPITOLINE  COLONY.  279 


people  without  end  wanted  to  help  to  carry  Ernest,  but 
Nicola  wquld  not  give  him  up.  The  operation  of  setting 
must  of  course  have  been  very  painful,  but  it  was  over  in 
a  moment,  and  he  only  uttered  a  sound  at  that  moment. 
.  .  .  The  surgeon  said  at  the  end  of  a  week,  which  was 
on  his  birthday,  that  he  might  be  allowed  to  leave  his 
bed.  and  walk  about  with  his  arm  in  a  sling." 


CHAPTER  VIIL 

ABSENCE. 

"They  are  never  alone  that  are  accompanied  with  noble 
thought*." 

Sir  Philip  Sidney. 

TN  September,  1827,  Bunsen  left  Rome  on  his  first 
•*•  official  journey  to  Berlin,  suddenly  summoned  on  the 
ostensible  reason  of  conveying  thither  a  noble  work  of 
Raphael — "  La  Madonna  della  f  amiglia  Lante  " — which 
he  had  been  enabled  by  a  happy  accident  to  procure  for 
his  country ;  but  really,  that  his  knowledge  of  the  in- 
tricacies of  the  Papal  government,  acquired  during  a 
long  residence  at  Rome,  might  be  made  useful  in  diffi- 
culties which  had  arisen  with  dignitaries  of  the  Roman 
Catholic  Church  in  Silesia  and  other  parts  of  the  Prus- 
sian dominions. 

The  distinction  with  which  Bunsen  was  received  at 
the  Prussian  court,  the  favour  of  the  King,  and  the 
friendship  of  the  Crown  Prince,  drew  forth  such  uni- 
versal courtship  of  the  man,  who  appeared  for  the  time 
to  be  in  the  very  brightest  sunshine  of  royalty,  as  was 
excessively  trying  to  one  who  was  still  only  entering 


ABSENCE.  281 


upon  his  thirty-seventh  year,  and  who  since  his  mar- 
riage had  always  been  satisfied  with  a  quiet  life  of 
laborious  duty  and  usefulness  in  the  animated  solitude 
of  the  Eternal  City.  It  was  observed  on  his  return  to 
Seme  that  his  appearance  was  changed  and  that  the 
period  of  youth  was  passed.  The  chief  subject  of  the 
royal  conversations  with  Bunsen  was  that  which  the 
King  had  most  at  heart,  his  anxiety  to  heal  the  reli- 
gious wounds  of  his  own  dissevered  dominions,  and  to 
promote  peace  between  the  Reformed  or  Galvinistic,  and 
the  Lutheran  Churches.  For  this  purpose,  with  the 
assistance  of  General  Witzleben,  he  had  long  since  put 
together  a  form  of  prayer  for  his  private  chapel,  which 
had  gradually  become  the  authorized  form  of  worship 
for  the  "  United  Evangelic  Church  of  Prussia." 

Repeatedly  commanded  to  prolong  his  stay,  Bunsen 
lingered  at  Berlin  till  the  beginning  of  March,  when, 
before  taking  leave,  he  considered  it  his  duty  to  submit 
to  the  King  the  form  of  Liturgy  which  he  had  drawn 
up,  with  the  assistance  of  Rothe,  and  to  reveal  that  this, 
rather  than  the  form  enjoined  by  his  sovereign,  was 
already  in  use  in  the  Protestant  chapel  at  Rome.  Many 
of  Bunsen's  friends  considered  that  by  this  act  he  would 
utterly  forfeit  the  King's  favour.  At  first  it  was  evi- 
dent that  Frederic  William  III.  was  displeased,  but  he 
received  Bunsen's  explanations  with  the  kindness  which 
he  had  always  evinced  towards  him,  and  eventually  not 
only  permitted  the  use  of  the  Liturgy,  but  made  u 
public  acknowledgment  of  its  merits,  by  causing  it  to 


282         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

be  printed,  with  a  preface  by  bis  own  band.  Bunsen 
was  himself  enjoined  to  correct  the  press,  so  that  his 
return  to  Rome  was  delayed  till  May,  1828 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  Palazzo  Alhani,  Castel  Gandolfo,  1  Oct,  1827.— I  have 
to  communicate  that  on  the  8th  Sept.,  the  day  I  dispatched 
my  last  letter,  the  post  brought  Charles  royal  orders  to 
travel  to  Berlin  as  soon  as  the  vacation  in  the  Eoman 
tribunals  should  leave  him  at  liberty  to  quit  Borne  without 
occasioning  interruption  in  the  dispatch  of  business ;  (you 
will  remember  that  the  greater  part  of  Charles's  occupa- 
tion here  consists  in  transacting  the  business  of  the 
Catholic  dioceses  in  the  King  of  Prussia's  dominions  with 
the  Pope,  they  not  being  allowed  direct  intercourse  with 
the  court  of  Borne).  On  the  24th  September  he  ac- 
complished getting  ready  to  set  out,  and  at  five  o'clock  in 
the  afternoon  of  that  day  we  saw  him  drive  away  from  his 
own  door,  with  post-horses,  in  a  well-closed  travelling 
carriage,  with  an  excellent  and  agreeable  travelling  com- 
panion, and  an  active  and  clever  servant ;  the  carriage  so 
constructed  that  he  could  lie  down  at  length  in  it,  which 
was  very  necessary,  as  the  plan  of  the  journey  will  make 
it  often  indispensable  to  travel  through  the  night  as  well 
as  the  day.  His  travelling  companion  is  an  architect  of 
the  name  of  Stier,  whom  we  have  known  for  years,  and 
have  every  year  seen  more  reason  to  value,  and  that  he  is 
useful  and  agreeable  in  travelling,  we  all  know  by  experi- 
ence, from  having  had  him  with  us  at  Orvieto  last  March. 
Tou  will  remember  that  some  time  ago  Charles  hinted  at 
the  possibility  of  this  journey,  which  we  afterwards  had 


ABSENCE.  283 


reason  to  believe  would  not  take  place,  and  therefore 
wrote  to  Berlin  for  leave  of  absence  to  go  to  Naples.  In 
answer,  be  was  told  that  the  ministry  had  need  of  personal 
conference  with  him,  with  respect  to  some  difficult  points 
which  jet  remained  to  be  arranged  with  the  Pope ;  and  on 
which  (I  believe)  the  ministry  do  not  know  what  to  demand, 
until  they  have  heard  from  Charles  what,  according  to  the 
system  of  the  present  Papal  government,  can  be  expected 
to  be  obtained.  This  opportunity  for  Charles  of  seeing 
Berlin,  not  as  a  mass  of  building  or  a  mass  of  population, 
but  as  a  centre  of  intellectual  movement, — of  again  seeing 
the  Xing — of  being  made  personally  known  to  the  Crown 
Prince,  who  is  highly  prejudiced  in  his  favour— of  forming 
the  acquaintance  of  Count  BernstorfF,  who  has  already 
shown  him  all  the  personal  interest  that  can  be  shown  to  a 
person  unknown — of  feeling  how  he  stands  with  his  old 
and  constant  protector  Prince  Wittgenstein,  and  measuring 
the  degree  of  toleration  felt  for  him  by  the  King's  private 
minister,  General  Witzleben;  cannot  but  be  felt  to  be 
highly  important:  and  may  God  direct  him  and  direct 
them,  so  that  this  crisis  may  tend  to  establish,  not  to  shake 
his  position  in  life.  I  hope  and  believe  I  do  not  deceive 
myself  in  saying  that  I  have  no  feelings  of  ambition  on 
this  occasion :  most  certainly  do  I  fear  and  dread  that  which 
many  people  expect,  that  the  predilection  which  the  King 
showed  for  Charles  when  in  Borne  will  so  far  strengthen, 
as  to  induce  him  to  desire  his  presence  at  Berlin,  in  some 
post  of  trust  and  honour.  If  such  a  distinction  was  to  be 
inflicted,  I  trust  in  Providence  that  the  requisite  strength 
to  endure  it  would  be  granted;  but  humanly  speaking, 
there  is  nothing  I  could  so  earnestly  wish  to  avert  as  any 


284         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

circumstance  that  should  lead  Charles,  with  his  acute  feel- 
ings and  irritable  fibre,  into  the  midst  of  court-cabals  and 
city-intrigues ;  the  happiness  of  life  would  be  the  least  to 
be  sacrificed:  only  thick-skinned  and  phlegmatic  people 
can  get  through  such  an  ordeal  without  a  material  change 
for  the  worse  in  character.  But  I  trust  I  shall  see  him 
again,  at  the  end  of  November  or  beginning  of  December, 
with  much  increase  of  knowledge  of  the  state  of  things 
from  the  near  yievc  he  will  have  been  enabled  to  take,  and 
with  no  other  alteration,  either  in  plans,  wishes,  or  situa- 
tion in  life  At  Berlin  he  hoped  to  arrive  on  the  12th  or 
13th  October,  and  if  not  detained  by  express  commands, 
would  not  stay  longer  than  to  the  end  of  the  month ;  but 
his  journey  back  would  take  more  time  than  the  journey 
there,  because  he  would  of  course  profit  by  the  opportu- 
nity of  being  in  Germany  after  eleven  years'  absence,  to 
take  a  glimpse  of  several  friends  whom  he  might  never 
have  the  opportunity  of  seeing  again,  in  particular  his 
remaining  sister,  Helen,  Madame  Muller,  who  lives  at 
Corbach,  where  he  will  also  visit  the  graves  of  his  parents. 
If  it  is  possible,  he  will  go  to  Bonn,  to  see  Mr.  Niebuhr 
and  Brandis.  The  latter  is  as  happy  as  possible  in  his 
marriage,  but  his  wife  is  almost  always  ailing :  God  grant 
her  life  may  be  preserved,  for  the  calamity  of  his  losing 
her  would  be  too  terrible.  Mr.  Niebuhr  wrote  Charles  a 
very  long  letter  lately,  very  happy  in  the  gradual  and 
complete  development  of  his  Marcus.  Mrs.  Niebuhr  drags 
on  a  suffering  existence,  never  well,  and  never  in  danger." 
"  10  Oct.,  1827.— I  have  had  a  long  and  delightful  letter 
from  Berlin,  where  Charles  has  met  with  the  most  gracious 
of  receptions  from  King,  Princes,  and  Ministers.  The  birth- 


ABSENCE.  285 


day  of  the  Crown  Prince,  three  days  after  his  arrival,  was 
celebrated  by  the  King  at  a  little  country-house,  which  he 
inhabited  when  he  was  Crown  Prince,  twenty  miles  from 
Berlin ;  and  Charles  was  invited,  although  no  other  person 
was  there  except  the  Royal  Family  and  their  attendants." 

Madame  Buxsen  to  her  Husband. 

"Palazzo  Albani,  Castel  Gandolfo,  26  Sept,  1827.— Having 
boon  busy  all  morning  looking  over  papers,  and  putting  ac- 
counts in  order,  I  may  now  allow  myself  the  refreshment  of 
beginning  a  letter.  My  own  Dearest  and  Best!  it  is  a 
strange  sensation  that  my  thoughts  have  such  a  long  space 
to  travel  over  before  they  can  reach  you :  but  most  thankful 
do  I  feel  that  this  separation  should  take  place  now,  instead 
of  at  any  other  time, — this  year,  instead  of  last.  On  the 
past  summer  my  thoughts  will  repose  as  long  as  I  live 
with  thankfulness,  at  no  time  did  I  ever  feel  you  so  near 
to  me,  at  no  time  did  I  ever  feel  so  fully  how  much  you 
loved  me,  at  no  time  did  I  ever  feel  so  much  satisfaction 
and  delight  in  you :  so  it  was  just  that  a  period  of  priva- 
tion should  follow  one  of  fulness.  I  assure  you  I  am  not 
depressed:  I  am  serious,  but  not  melancholy,  at  your 
absence,  and  in  the  consideration  of  the  very  important 
crisis  that  this  journey  must  form  in  your  life. 

"  The  morning  after  you  left,  I  unceasingly  despatched 
business  till  half -past  twelve,  when  I  set  out  for  Albano, 
with  your  sister,  the  four  boys,  Augusta  Klein  and 
Albrecht,  and  Giovanni's  brother  as  lackey.  Not  till  four 
o'clock  did  we  arrive,  for  they  had  given  us  tired  horses, 
however  we  had  no  distress,  except  the  hunger  of  the 
children,  and  I  enjoyed  sitting  in  quiet  in  the  delicious  air. 


286         L1FB   AND    LETTERS    OF  BARONESS   BUNSEX. 

After  dinner  the  children  enjoyed  a  game  at  Boccia  with 
Augusta  Klein.  Before  they  went  to  bed,  I  examined 
Ernest  as  to  his  studies  in  the  absence  of  Simon,  and  re- 
ceived from  him  a  compendium  of  the  history  of  Moses : 
with  such  exactness  of  detail,  such  accuracy  of  chronology, 
and  such  choice  of  language,  as  confirms  me  in  the  hope 
that  whatever  knowledge  he  may  acquire,  he  will  fairly 
possess,  it  will  not  be  as  it  were  lent  for  a  time. 

"27  Sept. — Yesterday  we  made  an  expedition  to  the 
outward  extremity  of  the  Emissary,  die  mole,  which  we 
found  an  easy  distance,  and  a  very  beautiful  road,  and  tho 
spot  itself  is  well  worth  seeing,  though  there  is  nothing  of 
antiquity  visible.  The  post  brought  letters  from  Niebuhr 
with  commissions  for  Latin  books,  and  for  an  antique  brick 
for  Marcus. 

"  28  Sept. — To-day  we  have  been  at  Marino,  and  Prances 
was  with  us,  and  enjoyed  greatly  riding  upon  an  ass  on 
the  old  woman's  lap.  My  George  rode  also,  and  was  the 
happiest  of  human  beings  at  being  held  upon  the  ass,  but 
he  and  I  have  had  many  a  dispute." 

"  Castel  Gandolfo,  4  Oct.,  1827.— On  Monday  we  profited 
by  the  fine  day  to  go  to  L'Ariccia  with  all  the  children, 
who  rode  alternately,  Frances  and  Emilia  of  course  with 
their  accompaniments  of  nurse  and  waiting-maid,  and 
George  with  one  of  his  brothers  behind  him.  We  fell 
like  a  flight  of  locusts  upon  John  Veit,  who  sent  for  his 
wife  from  her  devotions  to  receive  our  visit. 

"  On  Tuesday  we  drove  to  Genzano,  and  afterwards 
proceeded  to  Nemi,  and  there  visited  the  garden  of  Palazzo 
Braschi,  which  is  really  enjoyable — being  contrived  upon 
tho  steep  descent  of  the  rocks  under  the  palace. 


ABSENCE.  287 


"  Tour  sister  is  on  the  whole  surprisingly  well,  though 
she  has  daily  fever,  and  often  severe  rheumatic  pains. 
Judging  by  her  feelings,  she  is  of  opinion  that  the  bad 
weather  is  drawing  to  a  close ;  if  it  should  do  so  soon,  it 
would  be  worth  our  while  to  remain  here  longer,  and  to 
go  to  Monte  Cavo,  Grotta  Ferrata,  and  the  Centroni. 
Yesterday  I  had  a  great  battle  with  George,  to  whom  I 
found  it  necessary  to  refuse  Butterhrod  at  breakfast.  After 
urging  his  right  and  privilege  to  it  for  some  time,  he  reso- 
lutely exclaimed,  '  Giorgio  prende  butiro,  ammazza  Mama 
me ! '  You  may  believe  I  kept  my  countenance  till  I  had 
done  whipping  him  and  putting  him  in  prison,  but  then 
allowed  myself  to  laugh." 

"  7  Oct. — I  hope  before  I  leave  to  have  dry  weather  and 
leisure  combining  to  make  some  sketch  or  another  as  a 
record  of  my  dear  Castel  Gandolfo,  a  place  that  I  shall 
ever  remember  with  gratitude,  and  which  can  in  recollec- 
tion stir  up  no  feeling  but  what  is  soothing." 

"Palazzo  Caffarelli,  Borne,  14  Oct,  1827.— I  had  the 
comfort  of  your  letter,  my  own  Best  and  Dearest,  on  the 
evening  before  my  safe  and  happy,  but  somewhat  wet 
return  from  Castello.  There  had  only  been  an  interval  of 
rain  for  two  days,  in  which  your  sister  made  her  escape 
very  wisely  to  Borne.  I  never  felt  so  much  alone  as  in  the 
day  and  half  I  was  at  Palazzo  Albano  without  her,  and 
was  quite  happy  to  find  her  again  in  our  own  dear  house, 
where  everything  renewed  to  me  the  idea  of  your  absence. 
The  day  before  I  left  Castello,  besides  packing  up,  I  went 
in  the  morning  to  visit  the  Marchesa  Coosa,  and  then  to 
take  leave  of  the  Villa  Barberini,  where  I  greatly  enjoyed 
a  solitary  walk,  after  establishing  the  children  at  play. 


288         LIFE    AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


along  the  long  avenue  as  far  as  the  pines :  the  Libeccio 
blew  a  tempest,  but  the  sun  shone,  and  the  wind  spent  its 
fury  on  the  summits  of  the  trees,  the  walk  itself  being 
sheltered ;  all  which  circumstances  assisted  the  solemn,  but 
not  melancholy  state  of  mind,  in  which  I  bade  adieu  to 
Castel  Gandolfo.  Afterwards  I  took  leave  of  the  Pope's 
garden,  and  after  dinner  went  down  to  the  lake,  and  as  far 
as  the  Emissary,  where  my  George  was  much  pleased  with 
the  sight  of  the  swimming  lights,  which  curiosity  was  not 
new  to  his  brothers." 

"  Borne,  15  Oct — I  had  on  Saturday  evening,  and  again 
to-day,  a  long  visit  from  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Shirley,*  the  former 
the  same  that  we  ever  knew  him,  and  looking  the  picture 
of  happiness :  the  latter  has  produced  on  us  the  most  agree- 
able impression,  I  am  quite  rejoiced  to  know  her,  and  wish 
more  than  I  can  describe  that  she  might  still  be  here  when 
you  return." 

"  20  Oct. — My  thoughts  are  much  occupied  by  your 
description  of  Cornelius's  paintings,  and  a  spirit  of  criti- 
cism will  rise  in  spite  of  me  against  the  manner  in  which 
he  has  treated  the  taking  of  Troy.  I  think  there  is  much 
cleverness  in  the  combination  of  means  to  produce  strong 
emotion,  but  that  real  genius  would  have  been  more 
sparing  in  the  representation  of  human  brutality.  The 
art  of  painting  had  better  not  exist,  than  that  it  should  be 
exercised  to  display  the  degrading  side  of  what  is  noble  in 
the  ancient  world  and  in  human  nature ;  and  in  the  honour 

*  The  Rev.  Walter  Shirley,  afterwards  Bishop  of  Sodor  and  Han. 
He  married  a  first  cousin  of  Madame  Bunsen,  Maria  only  daughter  of 
William  Waddington,  who  was  naturalized  in  France  in  consequent 
of  his  marriage  with  Miss  Sykes,  heiress  of  St.  Leger  near  Boucn. 


ABSENCE.  289 


that  we  pay,  and  that  we  owe,  to  the  memory  of  Homer's 
heroes,  we  should  as  much  as  possible  keep  out  of  sight 
and  out  of  recollection  the  fact  that  they  were  ignorant  of 
those  refined  humanities  which  Christianity  has  taught ; 
and  the  taking  of  Troy  might  be  represented,  and  truly 
represented,  without  the  introduction  of  those  images  of 
passion  and  atrocity  which  lower  the  Grecian  heroes  to  a 
band  of  wild  beasts,  who,  after  wearying  themselves  with 
slaughter,  are  ready  to  contend  among  themselves  about 
the  division  of  the  defenceless  remainder  of  their  prey, 
each  thinking  the  other  has  the  better  portion.  The  idea 
of  Cassandra  prophesying  the  vengeance  to  come,  is  very 
magnificent,  and  the  escape  of  JEneas  must  be  a  point  of 
consolation  for  the  eye  to  rest  upon ;  but  I  could  wish  in 
the  other  Trojan  princesses  somewhat  less  of  '  female  noise, 
such  as  the  majesty  of  grief  destroys.'  A  calamity,  for 
which  a  number  of  preceding  sorrows  had  prepared  the 
way,  would,  as  it  were,  condense  the  feelings  into  com- 
posed endurance ;  and  historical  painting  has  no  need  of 
theatrical  emphasis  to  be  intelligible. 

"  I  have  been  at  the  Villa  Spada,  the  Villa  Pamfili,  and 
the  Villa  Borghese;  at  St.  Peter's,  and  S.  Maria  del 
Popolo.  Borne  is  very  delightful  as  well  as  Castello,  but 
one  has  less  leisure  here." 

To  her  Mother. 

"23  Oct.,  1827. — Mr.  Shirley  and  Maria  are  here,  and 
enjoying  Borne  most  thoroughly.  When  they  wrote  me 
word  they  were  arrived,  I  felt  as  odd  at  the  idea  of  encoun- 
tering them  without  Charles,  as  I  used  to  do  years  ago  at 
the  thought  of  forming   new  acquaintance  without  my 

vol.  i.  u 


290         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

Mother ;  it  seemed  as  if  I  wanted  him  to  make  amends  to 

people  for  the  trouble  they  took  in  knowing  me I 

am  disappointed  in  Mr.  Shirley's  not  speaking  German 
enough  to  converse  with  my  sister-in-law,  for  I  am  sure  it 
would  be  a  pleasure  to  both ;  and  I  always  wish  to  every- 
body capable  of  appreciating  intercourse  with  the  extra- 
ordinary mind  of  my  sister-in-law,  the  refreshment  and 
invigoration  I  hare  experienced  myself  from  her  con- 
summate originality.  I  do  not  mean  originality  in  the 
commonplace  sense  of  the  word  as  implying  mere  singu- 
larity ;  but  to  signify,  that  whether  she  communicates  the 
plainest  or  the  most  refined  result  of  intellectual  or  spiritual 
experience,  it  is  always  in  such  a  manner  as  conveys  an 
absolute  conviction  of  its  being  self -derived  and  not  received 
from  without  for  the  purpose  of  transmission.  When  I 
recollect  the  hints  I  have  from  time  to  time  given  you,  my 
Mother,  as  to  this  very  uncommon  person,  I  am  struck  with 
the  idea  of  their  apparent  discrepancy,  and  yet  cannot  by 
letters  undertake  to  reconcile  them :  all  are  true,  however 
paradoxical." 

To  Bunsen. 

"  24  Oct.,  1827.— The  company  of  the  Shirleys,  whom  I 
see  here,  or  go  to,  most  evenings,  is  a  great  gain  to  me ; 
it  is  a  refreshment  to  come  in  contact  with  people  so  right- 
headed  and  right-hearted,  and  with  whom  mind,  principles, 
and  feelings,  are  all  Bound  and  healthy." 

"  7  Nov.  —Every  sentence  in  your  last  letter  leads  me 
to  ejaculate,  to  you,  my  Dearest,  to  myself,  to  all  of  us, 
1  Watch  and  pray,  that  ye  enter  not  into  temptation,' — 
temptation  to  self -satisfaction!  to  self-gratulation ;  tempts- 


ABSENCE.  291 


tion  to  worldly  ambition ;  temptation  to  f  orgetf  ulness  of 
God  and  his  Providence !  Surely,  it  is  an  awful  trial  to 
which  you  are  exposed,  but  may  the  grace  of  God  brace 
every  sinew  of  your  soul  to  resist  unto  the  end,  that  you 
may  neither  fall  into  the  error  of  contemning  His  favours, 
nor  that  of  looking  upon  them  as  your  due. — The  full  tide 
of  gratification  beyond  wish  or  expectation,  I  am  called 
upon  in  some  degree  to  check,  by  communicating  to  you 
the  intelligence  of  Mr.  Cathcart's  death * 

"  This  is  the  birthday  of  our  darling  George,  as  last 
Sunday  was  that  of  Charles.  A  whole  set  of  treasures 
awaited  them  both,  and  the  little  Eggers'  came  both  days 
to  help  to  make  a  noise,  and  a  fine  noise  was  to  be  heard 
the  whole  day  long/' 

"17  Nov. — I  have  just  been  in  the  Campo  Vaccino  with 
your  sister,  my  George,  and  the  nurse  with  Emilia.  We 
saw  a  number  of  men  at  work,  excavating  opposite  the 
Coliseum,  at  the  foot  of  the  temple  of  Venus  and  Borne, 
but  could  discover  nothing  new,  except  that  some  archways 
appear  since  the  removal  of  the  mould,  under  the  sub- 
struction of  the  steps  that  surrounded  the  portico  of  the 
temple.  My  George  picked  up  pieces  of  stone,  repeating 
with  great  satisfaction  '  questo  i  betto,  9tico,'  meaning  antico" 

"19  Nov. — May  God  guide  and  protect  you!  is  my 
prayer  now  and  continually :  —if  it  is  His  will,  your  going  to 
Berlin,  and  remaining  in  Berlin,  will  be  good  for  yourself 
and  others ;  and  then  I  shall  not  regret  your  prolonged  stay. 
Your  purpose,  to  attain  the  point  of  being  well  understood 
by  those  persons  who  direct  the  spiritual  existenoe  of  your 

•  Mr.  Gathcart  was  the  friend  of  Bunaen's  early  life,  who  had  been 
the  meant  of  bringing  him  to  Rome. 


) 


292  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF    BARONESS   BUSSES. 

country,  thus  stated  in  general  terms,  I  greatly  approve : 
but  I  wish  I  knew  who  those  persons  were  ....  and,  till 
you  give  me  more  data,  X  know  not  how  to  assent  to  your 
assertion  '  die  Iteiee  wax  die  Miihe  worth ! '  I  wish  you 
may  not  awaken  mistrust  and  suspicion  by  all  your  liturgi- 
cal conferences.    0  the  gossip  of  Berlin ! " 

To  her  Mother. 

"  26  iVot!.,  1827. — My  own  dearest  Mother's  letter  was 
written  on  the  7th  November,  my  darling  George's  birth- 
day. 0 !  could  but  the  spirit  of  joy  and  satisfaction  which 
was  diffused  thro'  this  house  on  that  day,  have  spread 
to  my  Mother,  how  it  would  have  cheered  her  gloom, 
how  it  would  bare  renovated  her  weariness,  how  it  would 
have  soothed  her  spirit !  The  child  is  and  was  the  same 
child  on  that  day  as  on  other  days,  but  that  day  all  were 
happy  in  the  privilege  of  doing  something  or  another  to 
make  him  particularly  happy  from  morning  till  night,  and 
he  was  so  happy,  and  did  so  enjoy  himself !  I  do  not  love 
him  better  than  my  other  children,  my  own  Mother,  but  he 
is  altogether  the  one  in  whose  promise  I  have  the  fullest 
satisfaction :  there  is  such  a  vigour  in  him,  moral  and 
physical,— such  proportion,  such  fullness,  such  intelligence, 
such  tenderness  of  nature.  Ob '  how  you  would  delight  in 
him,  and  he  refreshed  by  the  sight  of  him !  My  Mother, 
it  ia  indeed  more  and  more  necessary,  as  you  say,  that  we 
should  meet,  hut  howf — "When  I  think  of  the  risk  about 
my  Father,  I  dare  not  allow  myself  to  with  that  you 
should  come  to  Borne,  so  entirely  do  I  feel  what  you 
express,  that  any  degree  of  illness  would  cause  the  bit- 
terest self-reproach.     But,  blessed  be  God,  it  is  God  alone 


i 


ABSENCE.  293 


that  can  bring  us  together,  it  is  God  alone  that  keeps  ns 
apart, — therefore  the  prolongation  of  trial  must  be  best  for 
both  and  we  must  by  no  forced  measure  attempt  to  put  an 
end  to  it,  lest  the  trial  should  take  a  still  worse  shape,  and 

turn  to  punishment With  regard  to  my  troubles, 

one  cannot  be  thirty-six  years  in  the  world  without  having 
anxieties  of  some  sort  or  other,  and  I  always  think,  with 
respect  to  them,  of  my  Mother  s  expression  when  sending 
me  of  an  errand — '  Gallop  up  stairs  again,  and  give  such  a 
message — it's  all  in  your  day's  work.'  That  idea  of  a  day1 8 
work,  as  much  as  one's  strength  can  perform,  and  not  more, 
bat  also  not  less,  but  limited  to  a  term,  the  day — was 
always  fully  satisfactory  to  me,  at  those  times ;  and  it  is 
equally  so  now.  I  am  well  content  with  my  present  por- 
tion of  the  day's  work,  my  own  Mother,  and  you  would  be 
so  too,  if  you  knew  it,  that  is,  if  you  knew  the  whole  of 
my  situation,  in  all  its  bearings,  of  which  it  is  so  difficult  to 
give  an  idea  in  letters  written  at  scraps  of  time,  and  amidst 
interruptions.  And  as  to  the  future  part  of  the  day's  work, 
I  do  not  fear  getting  through  with  it. — How  should  I 
sink  under  discouragement,  who  have  the  everlasting  arms 
under  me,  the  wisdom  of  Heaven  to  direct  and  guide  mo, 
and  the  infinite  treasures  of  goodness  to  supply  all  my 
necessities  ? 

"  I  have  constantly  the  same  accounts  from  my  dearest 
husband,  of  his  receiving  unceasing  and  universal  marks 
of  grace  and  favour  at  Berlin :  may  the  Providence  that 
brought  him  to  this  situation  of  honour  and  danger,  defend 
him  from  the  envy,  hatred,  malice  and  all  uncharitableness 
by  which  he  must  be  surrounded!  From  the  spiritual 
dangers  of  his  situation,  I  have  the  fullest  trust  that  the 


294  LUTE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BAROXESS  BUNSEN. 

mercy  of  God  will  protect  him  :  He  who  '  granted  the  earlj 
will  grant  the  latter  rain/  and  bring  His  own  work  to 
perfection." 

"  29  Nov. — I  have  seen  the  Aliens  often,  morning  and 
evening,  and  the  company  of  Mr.  Allen*  is  a  real  pleasure 
to  me.  I  am  more  than  ever  aware  of  all  that  is  good  and 
excellent  and  respectable  about  him,  but  his  foibles  have 
grown  old  with  him  as  well  as  his  good  qualities,  and  he  is 
as  fond  as  ever  of  repeating  anecdotes  of  Brooke's :  he 
has  however  changed  the  chit-chat  of  Holland  House  for 
that  of  Woburn,  and  the  names  of  Scarlett,  Brougham,  &c, 
for  those  of  the  Bussells  and  the  Seymours.'1 

To  Bunsen. 

"  14  Dec,  1827. — On  Wednesday,  our  new  carpets  being 
down,  I  invited  several  people  whom  I  thought  myself 
bound  to  ask  in  some  form  or  other.  Therefore  I  got 
together  some  musicians.  Sardi  was  pleased  to  come,  and 
to  sing  admirably  something  from  the  Creation  of  Haydn : 
besides  him  there  was  Bostell's  little  Corinaldesi,  whose 
singing  was  much  admired,  and  a  harp-player  named 
Fraziani :  the  Vannitelli  played  admirably  on  the  piano- 
forte, and  altogether  it  was  an  abundant  feast  of  music, 
so  that  the  evening  passed  off  extremely  well.  I  took  care 
to  have  un  rinfruco  sufficient*. 

"  My  George  last  night  jumped  up  in  his  sleep  and  said 
1  Papa,  papa  via,  papa  torna.1  On  coming  down-stairs 
this  morning,  Charles  related  that  he  had  dreamt  of  his 
Papa :  and  Henry,  on  hearing  it,  said  that  he  had  often 
dreamt  of  his  Papa's  return.    Last  Sunday  I  had  a  long 

+'  Allen  of  CresseHy,  brother  of  Mrs.  Drewe. 


ABSENCE.  295 


walk  with  the  four  boys,  Giovanni  holding  my  George's 
hand,  and  carrying  him  part  of  the  way  home.  It  was  one 
of  those  delightful  Roman  winter  days,  in  which  every 
object  seems  illuminated  and  ennobled  by  the  atmosphere, 
and  every  breath  of  air  inhaled  seems  to  invigorate  soul 
and  body.  We  went  by  the  Coliseum  to  S.  Clemente,  where 
we  examined  paintings,  monuments,  marble-enclosures, 
and  mosaics,  to  the  gratification  of  all  the  children.  From 
thence  we  proceeded  to  the  Baptistery  of  the  Lateran, 
where  the  words  Indtdgentia  Plenaria  gave  Henry  an  oppor- 
tunity of  asking  particulars  as  to  the  belief  of  the  Catholics, 
which  he  received  much  to  his  satisfaction,  wisely  shaking 
his  head.  We  then  went  through  the  Lateran,  looking  at 
everything,  and  issued  forth  by  the  main  entrance,  where 
Santa  Croce  and  the  Porta  Asinaria,  and  the  range  of 
mountains  behind,  with  the  green  meadow  before,  burst 
upon  us  in  full  splendour  of  sunshine  and  colouring. 

"At  Lady  Compton's  I  have  made  acquaintance  with 
Mr.  Hallam  and  his  wife.  Mr.  Hallam  is  not  exactly 
agreeable,  but  he  looks  like  a  person  made  of  sterling 
stuff. 

"  My  Best-Beloved !  the  year  will  be  at  an  end  when  this 
letter  reaches  its  destination :  probably  you  will  not  open 
it  till  the  new  year  has  begun.  May  it  be  to  you  a  year  of 
new  blessings,  a  year  of  sobriety  of  spirit,  a  year  of  self- 
resolution,  a  year  of  advanco  in  spiritual  life !  As  to  all 
that  is  temporal,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  form  a  special 
wish,  lest  it  should  be  either  granted  or  rejected  in  wrath ! 
I  can  only  pray  for  myself,  for  you,  for  our  children,  for  all 
those  we  love  best,  that  the  power  of  God  maybe  granted, 
to  enable  us  to  support  the  will  of  God !    The  past  year  is 


296  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


one  I  look  upon  with  peculiar  thankfulness,  for  the  renewed 
and  strengthened  assurance  of  your  love  that  I  have  received 
in  it :  for  the  peace  and  enjoyment  of  our  summer  residence : 
for  the  progressive  improvement  in  mind  and  body  of  our 
precious  children.  Again  and  again,  God  bless  you,  my 
Dearest !  It  is  nine  o'clock,  and  Kestner,  Hensel,*  and 
Grahlf  are  sitting  in  expectation  of  me." 

"  17  Dbc,  1827. — My  Best-Beloved,  what  ticklish  ground 
you  are  standing  upon!  So  useful  to  each  and  all,  eo 
indispensable  where  advice  on  given  points  is  wanting — 
where  all  are  in  a  scrape,  and  all  would  be  glad  of  a 
suggestion  how  to  get  out  of  it,  but  trust  you  rather  than 
any  one  else,  as  being  believed  to  understand  the  subject 
better !  Oh  what  shall  save  you  from  splitting  on  rocks, 
or  running  aground  on  shoals!  And  yet,  there  are  no 
rocks,  no  shoals,  for  him  whose  steerage  is  ever  regulated 
according  to  the  true  compass  of  the  soul: — who  with 
singleness  of  eye  and  heart  marks  alone  the  noiseless 
vibrations  of  that  needle  of  conscience,  which  ever  points 
to  ihe  pole,  the  one  fixed  point  round  which  all  that  is 
earthly  revolves.  My  Dearest,  shall  I  admit  that  I  did  not 
like  your  exultation  in  la  difficult^  vaincue:  were  you  not 
too  full  of  self-confidence  in  your  own  powers? — If  you 
have,  as  I  trust  and  believe,  laboured  not  only  faithfully 
but  efficiently  for  the  peace  and  welfare  of  the  church  of 
Christ,  I  shall  indeed  bo  Hie  last  person  to  grudge  you  the 
praise  you  deserve,  but  I  wish  you  had  not  taken  so  much 
to  yourself.  That  Providence  which  brought  about  your 
journey  to  Berlin,  may  make  use  of  you  to  produce  public 

*  An  eminent  Prussian  artist. 

t  The  well-known  miniature  painter  to  the  King  of  Prussia. 


ABSENCE.  297 


benofit :  but  to  be  the  instrument  of  good  will  not  make 
you  better,  unless  your  inward  abasement  before  the  cross 
of  Christ  is  proportioned  to  your  external  exaltation.  My 
best-beloved,  most  precious,  will  you  forgive  my  preaching? 
If  you  have  not  needed  it,  you  will  not  take  it  ill !  You 
are  placed  on  a  pinnacle,  and  you  will  not  wonder  that  I 
call  to  you  from  a  distance,  supplicating  you  to  keep  your 
eye  still  fixed  aloft,  lest,  should  you  cast  it  below  or  around, 
you  should  grow  giddy  and  fall.'1 

"26  Dec.,  1827.— On  Christmas  Eve  I  took  care  to  ask 
all  the  stationaries,  Kestner,  Plainer,  Eothe  and  his  wife, 
Hensel,  Orahl,  the  three  Eggers  and  their  children,  which 
with  the  standing-dishes  of  Simon,  Rostell,  and  Rhebenitz, 
and  the  new  acquisition  of  Herr  Georg,  made  up  a  toler- 
ably large  party,  and  we  put  up  Rhebenitz's  transparency 

between  two  beautiful  trees My  darling  George 

bad  a  hammer  and  a  pair  of  pincers,  and  was  the  happiest 
of  God's  creatures,  lugging  about  the  two  treasures,  one 
in  each  dear  fat  hand ;  after  looking  at  everything,  and 
enjoying  everything,  he  took  them  with  him  to  bed,  and 
slept  with  them  under  his  pillow.  For  everybody  else 
present  I  got  some  suitable  Christmas-box." 

11  5  Jan.,  1828. — My  Best-Beloved,  your  view  of  the  state 
of  people  and  things  in  Berlin  is  made  in  your  temper  of 
Blind,  and  I  must  consider  it  with  my  temper  of  mind, 
which  was  always  one  of  fear  and  trembling  from  my 
childhood.  When  anything  looks  very  bright,  I  always 
expect  a  reverse,  and  so  it  is  in  the  present  case.  How- 
e*er,  be  that  as  it  may,  let  the  will  of  God  be  done !  I 
fear  not  to  look  forward  to  a  change  of  fortune,  knowing 
"7  experience  how  little  outward  things  have  to  do  with 


298         LIFE  AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

the  satisfaction  one  may  feel  in  existence.  When  we  were 
in  the  narrowest  circumstances,  I  had  less  of  care  and  more 
of  enjoyment,  than  I  have  had  since  what  are  called  our 

days  of  fortune You,  as  the  acknowledged  favourite 

of  everybody,  are  now  flattered  by  everybody  (I  mean  the 
world  of  distinguished  beings  in  the  first  place,  and  the 
world  of  little  beings  in  the  second)  and  therefore  all  people 
can  scarcely  show  themselves  to  you  in  their  true  colours. 

"On  the  last  evening  of  the  year  I  sang  'Gottlob, 
ein  Schritt  zur  Ewigkeit '  alone :  I  wonder  where  you  were, 
and  who  sang  a  hymn  to  you ! " 

Jan.  17,  1828. — My  Dearest,  I  cannot  express  the  plea- 
sure your  account  of  your  Christmas  gave  me,  nor  what 
affection  I  feel  towards  the  Grobens  *  for  making  you  such 
amends  for  not  being  at  home.  I  also  feel  real  affection 
towards  the  King  for  the  regard  he  showed  you.  That 
invitation  on  Christmas  Day,  and  the  yet  more  flattering 
arrangement  for  your  hearing  the  Russians  sing,  I  take  to 
have  resulted  from  the  pleasure  which  your  letter  accom- 
panying the  Raphael  on  Christmas  Eve  gave  him.  I 
doubt  not  that  letter  was  written  with  all  your  heart,  and 
so  it  reached  the  King's." 

In  the  beginning  of  February,  Madame  Bunsen 
received  the  news  of  her  father's  death.     He  retained 

*  Count  Carl  Groben,  of  Neudorf ohen  in  East  Prussia,  had  been 
Bliicher's  aide-de-camp  during  the  late  campaigns,  and  held  the  same 
position  at  this  time  towards  the  Crown  Prince,  afterwards  King 
Frederick  William  IV.  He  lived  to  an  old  age,  a  splendid  specimen 
of  the  last  generation.  His  wife  was  a  daughter  of  that  General 
Dprnberg  described  in  a  former  letter  from  Madame  Bunsen  to  her 
mother. 


ABSENCE.  299 


his  active  habits  and  his  systematic  application  to  read- 
ing, to  the  last,  and  walked  in  snow  and  frost  the  day 
before  lie  died.  He  retired  to  bed  as  usual,  while  on  a 
visit  to  his  daughter  Augusta  at  Abercarne,  and  the  next 
morning  was  found  by  his  servant  speechless,  having 
been  struck  with  apoplexy.  Mrs.  "Waddington  was 
immediately  summoned  from  Llanover,  13  miles  dis- 
tant, but  he  was*  never  apparently  conscious  of  her 
presence.  He  expired  the  19th  January,  1828,  in  his 
80th  vear,  and  was  buried  at  Llanover. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mothee. 

"  6  Feb.,  1828. — My  own  Mother,  I  experience  that  for 
a  shock  of  this  sort  there  is  no  preparation :  I  had  thought 
myself  prepared  for  it,  with  such  certainty  that  I  antici- 
pated it ; — but  that  does  not  alter  the  fact,  or  the  impres- 
sion made.  My  sensation  in  reference  to  myself  is  that 
produced  by  the  idea  of  a  6hip  let  loose  from  its  cable, 
and  drifting  before  the  wind : — the  longer  I  was  separated 
from  the  only  home  I  ever  knew,  the  more  I  have  ever 
clung  to  the  idea  of  having  one  fixed  point  in  the  world, 
the  abode  of  my  parents ;  and  shall  that  perpetually  recur- 
ring vision  now  be  incomplete?  must  I  figure  to  myself 
the  empty  place,  the  deserted  room  ?  must  I  give  up  the 
waking  dream  of  showing  my  children,  of  hearing  the 
comments  made  upon  them — must  I  give  up,  worst  of  all, 
the  hope  cherished  of  being  myself,  of  being  through  the 
means  of  my  children,  6ome  gratification,  some  occupa- 
tion, some  amusement,  to  him  whom  I  must  look  upon  as 
a  benefactor  for  whom  I  have  never  done  anything— 


300         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

towards  whom  I  might  hare  appeared  as  a  mere  thankless 
receiver  ?    Perhaps  these  dreams  might  never  have  been 
realized,  but  to  have  had  them  cut  short  by  death  is  the 
same  pain  as  if  every  probability  had  attended  them,  and 
we  that  are  earthly  must  cling  to  what  is  earthly,  must 
suffer  from  what  is  earthly.    But  if  all  this  touches  me, 
my  own  dearest  Mother,  and  touches  deeply,  what  have 
you  not  to  feel,  to  be  bowed  to  the  ground  by  ?  and  am  I 
never  to  be  with  you  at  such  times  ? — a  foolish  thought, 
for  what  could  I  do  for  you  ?    You  are  strong  to  endure, 
strong  in  the  aid  which  has  never  failed  you.     '  'Tis  dread 
Omnipotence  alone  can  heal  the  wound  he  gave ; '  your 
trial  and  your  comfort  must  come  from  the  same  source. 
0  my  Mother !  how  my  soul  is  penetrated  by  your  self- 
accusation  !  *  and  what  can  I  say,  how  shall  I  contradict 
you  ?    I  can  but  remind  you  of  what  you  know,  that  you 
were,  and  had  been,  the  sole  pleasure  of  his  life,  the  sole 
occupation,  the  sole  subject-matter  that  mixed  with  his 
thoughts  and  plans ;  the  thing  that  he  looked  for  at  every 
period  of  the  day :  that  you  made  all  his  happiness :  can 
you  not  rest  upon  this  fact  ?    0  no, — at  first  I  know  you 
cannot  ward  oil  that  self-reproach  which  pours  poison  into 
the  wound,  and  converts  sorrow  to  anguish.    But  you  will 
in  time,  I  trust  and  pray,  feel  the  practical  influence  of 
what  your  understanding    admits.    From    the   blackest 
stain  of  sin  of  which  human  nature  is, capable,  down  to 

*  This  alludes  to  the  distress  of  Mrs.  Waddington  because  she  had 
remained  at  Llanover  when  Mr.  Waddington,  by  his  own  wish,  went 
for  a  few  days'  visit  to  Abercarne.  His  death  was  quite  sudden,  but 
he  had  the  affectionate  attentions  of  his  youngest  daughter  and  her 
husband*  who  were  with  him. 


ABSENCE.  301 


the  faintest  shade  of  wrong  which  a  tender  conscience 
can  perceive,  all  must  be  brought  to  the  *  one  fountain 
opened  for  all  sin  and  uncleanness : '  there  the  one  is 
obliterated  as  well  as  the  other ;  and  He  who  rebuked  the 
winds,  and  bade  the  waves  be  still,  can  also  quiet  the 
human  spirit,  and  bid  it  cease  from  troubling  the  defence* 
less  heart  I  am  thankful  for  the  circumstance  of  a  pre- 
cious note  being  written  to  jou !  the  very  fact  of  writing, 
of  performing  that  act  of  all  then  the  most  irksome,  tells 
worlds  as  to  the  feelings  of  tenderness  towards  you  that 
occupied  him.  And  that  you  were  away  from  him  at  that 
moment,  was  for  his  satisfaction ;  be  did  not  anticipate  his 
end  was  so  near,  and  therefore  it  was  his  wish  that  you 
should  arrange  bis  affairs,  in  order  to  forming  a  plan  for 
the  future.  You  made  a  sacrifice  to  his  wishes  in  that 
short  separation.  My  own  dearest  Mother,  I  have  no  con- 
ception how  you  should  ever  keep  your  promise  of  giving 
me  an  account  of  what  took  place  from  the  time  the  chaise 
came  to  fetch  yon,  till  the  note  was  put  into  your  hands ; 
but  if  you  ever  could  tell  me  anything  of  that  time,  the 
comfort  would  be  great  indeed :  my  thoughts  wander  to  it 
in  unceasing  conjecture. — That  solitary  return  to  Llanover ! 
I  had  almost  said,  I  cannot  bear  to  think  of  it :  but  that 
is  a  manner  of  speaking,  my  Mother  has  to  bear  the 
reality. 

"All  Charles's  letters  contain  accounts  of  the  King's 
unceasing  kindness  to  him:  even  to  favouritism:  I  mis- 
trust all  these  flowers  growing  on  the  soil  of  a  court ;  they 
will  all  have  their  thorn,  although  that  may  later  be  dis- 
covered  My  own  dearest  Mother,  I  know  not  how 

to  bid  you  adieu ! " 


302    LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BAROXESS  BUNSEN. 

To  Bunsen. 

"  14  Feb.,  1828.— I  feel  my  father's  death  most  for  my 

mother,  but  also  as  a  great  personal  shock My 

mother  attended  the  funeral.  It  must  have  been  a  most 
affecting  scene:  more  than  four  hundred  farmers  and 
country  people  present,  and  yet  all  as  still  as  death, 
though  many  children  were  amongst  the  crowd.  Ever 
since  I  received  on  the  20th  of  December  a  drawing  of  my 
father  by  Augusta — the  most  incomparable  of  all  like- 
nesses— I  have  felt  as  if  that  gift  was  sent  to  prepare  me 
for  his  death :  yet,  when  it  was  sent,  he  was  in  perfect 
health." 

"  19  Feb. t  1828. — I  have  had  an  interruption  which  gave 
mo  much  concern,  the  necessity  of  breaking  to  our  excel- 
lent friend  Kestner  the  news  of  ihe  death  of  his  mother, 
who  was  Werther's  '  Lotte.'  She  was  from  all  accounts  a 
very  estimable  person,  and  never  deserved  in  any  other 
respect  than  being  attractive  to  be  raised  to  the  'bad 
eminence '  of  a  heroine  in  a  novel." 

"  20  Feb.,  1828. — Of  your  long-delayed  return  I  can  say 

nothing  more  than  what  I  daily  pray,  God  grant  a  good 

issue !    God  bless  your  going  out  and  coming  in !    Heaven 

knows  of  your  coming  in  we  feel  a  great  need,  but  I  see  we 

shall  have  much  longer  to  wait.    As  to  other  matters,  the 

principal  ones  in  your  lettor,  I  pray  in  the  words  of  the 

hymn, — 

Lava  quod  est  sordidum,  Fleets  quod  est  rigidum. 

Riga  quod  est  aridum,  Fove  quod  est  frigidum. 

Sana  quod  est  saucium.  Bege  quod  est  divium." 

11 7  March,  1828. — We  spent  my  birthday  with  as  much 
satisfaction  as  we  could,  under  the  consciousness  of  your 


ABSENCE.  303 


absence,  though  that  was  indeed  a  great  weight  upon  me. 
That  morning  I  was  in  some  danger  of  breakfasting  alone, 
for  I  could  get  nobody  in  the  house  to  come,  for  all  the 
children,  with  Bhebenitz,  Hensel  and  Grahl,  were  collected 
in  your  sister's  room,  where  she  made  them  wait  for  Kest- 
ner,  "who  was  late,  in  order  to  come  to  me  in  grand  proces- 
sion, the  least  first.  My  two  sweet  girls  carried  flowers 
and  roia  dolce,  my  George  a  pair  of  gloves,  my  Charles  a 
ribbon,  my  Henry  and  Ernest  each  a  flower-pot  with  a 
flowering-plant  in  it ;  your  sister  brought  me  a  canary-bird 
in  a  cage,  Grahl  a  picture  of  my  Frances,  Hensel  a  copy 
of  verses,  Bhebenitz  a  very  beautiful  drawing  from  a  paint- 
ing of  Pietro  Perugino,  and  Kestner  a  copy  of  verses, 
with  a  drawing  of  your  sister,  which  is  very  like.  After- 
wards came  the  Bothe's,  she  having  embroidered  a  ruff  for 
me :  then  came  the  Eggers'  procession,  Albert  with  a 
flower-pot,  Georg  and  Otto  with  a  basket  lined  with  green 
silk,  the  gift  of  Augusta  Klein.  As  soon  as  the  children 
had  dined,  we  went  to  see  the  wild  beasts,  now  outside  the 
Porta  del  Popolo,  and  then  to  the  Villa  Borghese." 

To  her  Mother. 

"  1  March,  1828. — My  dearest  husband  is  still  at  Berlin, 
and  God  grant  it  may  be  to  good  purpose.  During  this 
long  stay  at  Court  plentiful  seed  of  future  trial  will  have 
been  sown — that  is  certain :  but  be  it  so ;  '  it  is  all  in  the 
day's  work/  and  there  is  but  one  thing  good  or  evil  in  life. 
"What  I  cannot  understand  is  the  possibility  of  people's 
seriously  congratulating  me  (as  they  do)  upon  the  advan- 
tages to  be  derived  to  the  children  from  Charles's  present 
favour.    One  should  suppose  nobody  had  ever  heard,  or 


304         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OP   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

read,  what  a  Court  is.  I  have  more  hope  of  the  children's 
doing  well  in  life,  from  good  instructions  begun,  continued, 
and  ended  in  faith  and  prayer. 

"  The  boys  are  now  very  busy  cutting  out  at  one  table, 
while  I  am  writing  at  the  other.  They  were  at  first  all  about 
my  table  like  bees,  for  they  always  suppose  where  I  sit 
must  be  the  most  convenient  place.  After  we  have  dined 
about  five  o'clock,  and  the  children  at  the  conclusion  of  our 
dinner,  have  had  mashed  potatoes,  or  stewed  fruit,  or  bread 
and  butter,  for  their  supper,  they  play  about  a  little,  and 
then  go  up  to  Simon,  who,  as  I  understand,  speaks  to  them 
about  their  conduct  during  the  day,  then  reads  a  hymn, 
and  prays  with  them,  and  then  they  return  to  me.  Bather 
more  than  a  month  ago  I  began  the  practice  of  cutting  out 
for  them  (without  moving  from  my  great  chair)  something 
from  a  card,  that  they  might  trace  it  round,  and  cut  it  out 
for  themselves — there  being  no  end  to  my  drawing  things 
for  each  of  the  three  to  cut ;  and  this  has  proved  a  delight- 
ful occupation,  to  which  they  return  with  fresh  zeal  every 
evening  from  seven  to  eight  o'clock,  when  they  go  to  bed: 
The  things  most  usually  cut  out  are  from  my  Mother's  book 
of  horses,  and  birds  from  Bewick,  and  beasts  from  Gold* 
smith's  Animated  Nature. 

"  Henry  and  Ernest  have  their  regular  drawing  lesson 
every  day,  and  singing  twice  a  week — the  drawing  makes 
progress,  but  not  so  striking  as  the  singing.  Rhebenitz 
keeps  them  to  making  out  outlines  for  themselves,  from 
real  objects,  and  Henry  has  begun  to  draw  from  the  win- 
dow ;  but  this  method,  which  is  laying  a  solid  groundwork, 
cannot  at  first  make  a  show.  With  their  progress  in  sing- 
ing I  am  quite  astonished — that  those  two  little  things 


ABSENCE.  305 


should  keep  firm  at  their  posts,  and  perform  their  part  of 
the  Psalms  of  Marcello,  while  the  tenor  and  bass,  and  the 
accompaniment  are  going  on  at  the  same  time,  is  what 
I  witness  with  surprise,  for  the  quantity  of  teaching 
they  hare  had  has  been  really  very  small,  and  subject  to 
many  interruptions.  Their  master  has  accustomed  them 
to  writing  out  their  own  parts,  and  it  is  most  amusing  to 
see  the  important  faces  they  make,  when  copying  out  music 
like  great  grown-up  people,  and  I  am  never  obliged  to 
remind  them  of  doing  it,  they  always  find  time,  altho'  the 
business  is  not  allowed  to  encroach  on  lessons  of  any  sort.'1 

"19  March,  1828. — Maria  (Shirley)  has  left  me  a  legacy 
of  '  pious  acquaintances '  in  Borne,  amongst  whom  I  have 
had  an  opportunity  of  learning  more  of  the  way  of  the 
world  than  I  knew  before,  and  really  I  am  not  edified  with 

ft  hat  I  have  learnt Do  you  remember  a  little  book 

which  my  dear  aunt  Harriet  sent  me,  the  Memoir**  of 
Mrs.  Mary  Cooper?  There  was  much  in  it  to  me  a 
subject  of  melancholy  contemplation,  as  to  the  seducing 
spirit  now  going  about  the  world,  of  '  Pride  dress'd  like 
Humility.'  The  heroine  of  the  book,  I  doubt  not,  will  be 
received  among  the  pardoned  and  accepted ;  but  I  main- 
tain that  nevertheless  it  implies  doctrines,  and  suggests 
sentiments,  more  mischievous  than  anything  in  Delphine. 
Mrs.  Cooper  quotes  from  a  favourite  preacher,  and  often 
repeats  with  high  satisfaction,  '  Do  not  be  satisfied  with 
your  religion  till  it  makes  you  happy.'  This  implies, 
first,  that  it  is  lawful  for  you  to  be  satisfied  with  your 
religion,  that  you  are  allowed  to  consider  it  possible  to 
be  so  religious  as  to  be  enabled  to  say  '  It  is  enough.' 
8econdly  it  implies,  that  we  may  expect  and  require  to  be 

vol.  i.  x 


306         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

happy,  in  this  world,  thro1  religion.     0  my  own  dearest 
Mother,  what  do  people  mean  by  such  suppositions  ?  Have 
they  ever  thought  or  reflected  ?    Is  not  the  first  step  to- 
wards religion  to  acknowledge  yourself  less  than  the  least 
of  God's  mercies,  and  not  only  dust  but  sin — and  when 
any  step  is  made  in  religion,  does  it  not  lead  you  more  and 
more  to  wonder  at  the  desperate  wickedness,  the  deep 
deceit  of  the  human  heart, — to  feel '  the  iniquities  of  your 
holy  things,'  and  renounce  with  abhorrence  even  what  the 
world  may  call  your  good  deeds,  as  knowing  them  to  come 
from  the  same  source,  to  be  formed  of  the  same  stuff,  as 
your  sins,  and  therefore  unfit  for  the  sight  of  a  God  of 
purity,  however  they  may  take  forms  useful  and  convenient 
and  fair-seeming  to  men  ?  the  result  of  which  is  and  must 
be,  the  reception,  as  a  matter,  not  of  dogma,  but  of  deep 
and  heart-felt  conviction,  of  the  truth  that  thro'  all-suffi- 
cient merits,  not  our  own,  if  claimed  by  humble  faith,  we 
are  assured  of  acceptance.    Maria  once  talked  of  feeling 
great  happiness  since  she  was  convinced  of  the  vanity 
of  everything  earthly,  a  sentiment  I  do  not  understand, 
but  which  I  found  no  opportunity  of  expressing  my  dissent 
from.    I  do  not  comprehend  what  is  meant  by  the  comfort 
of  a  good  conscience,  although  I  well  understand  what  Jeremy 
Taylor  calls  '  a  false  peace,  and  a  silent  conscience.9    My 
own  Mother,  it  is  risking  a  good  deal  to  begin  on  such 
topics  with  my  Frances  sitting  on  the  table  mending  my 
glove,  and  my  George  building  a  house  and  chattering 
opposite :  but  I  believe  you  will  understand  what  I  mean, 
however  incoherently  put  together ;  and  not  suppose  that  I 
have  learnt  of  Dr.  Nott  to  cast  a  sweeping  sentence  of 
excommunication  against  sectaries;  on  the  contrary,  I 


ABSENCE.  307 


believe  my  tendency  was  the  reverse,  that  of  over-rating 
their  merits,  nor  will  you  suspect  me  of  requiring  every- 
body to '  bow  their  heads  like  a  bulrush '  and  expect  to 
rise  to  Heaven  only  from  the  depths  of  despair." 

To  BUN8EX. 

"  20  March,  1828.— This  day  I  receive  my  Best-Beloved's 
letter  announcing  a  yet  longer  absence. — But,  God  grant 
his  blessing  to  the  cause,  and  then,  whatever  the  result,  it 
will  be  satisfactory :  the  result  to  yourself  must  probably 
be  trial,  of  some  sort  or  other,  but  if  all  consequences  are 
encountered  with  singleness  of  heart,  strength  will  be  given 
to  endure  them.  My  Dearest,  it  is  hard  work  to  be  patient ; 
could  I  but  believe  the  delay  would  only  be  for  ten  or 
twelve  days,  or  only  for  any  given  time,  I  could  then  make 
up  my  mind  to  the  necessity.  But  the  mischief  is,  that 
after  having  been  so  often  disappointed,  one  has  no  confi- 
dence left.  ....  I  thank  God  for  the  gracious  treatment 
you  receive,  and  for  the  fine  mind,  the  candid  spirit,  and 
exalted  views  of  the  principal  person  you  have  to  deal  with. 
And  I  thank  God,  my  very  Dearest,  for  all  the  love  and 
affection  you  express  towards  me :  it  is  my  trust  in  your 
love  that  alone  makes  it  possible  to  endure  this  piecemeal 
penitence  of  your  lengthened  absence." 

"  9  April,  1828. — It  continues  to  seem  odd  as  well  as 
disagreeable  to  me  to  have  to  see  all  sorts  of  things, 
and  take  part  in  various  passatempi,  according  to  the 
different  seasons  of  the  year,  and  that  you  should  still  be 
absent ;  and  you  too  go  on,  through  business  and  pleasure, 
through  labour  and  refreshment,  between  friends  and 
enemies,  through  the  disturbances  of  men  and  the  festivals 


308  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

of  the  Church — and  all  without  me !  I  was  with  your  sister 
on  Good  Friday  in  the  Sixtine  Chapel,  as  well  as  on  Thurs- 
day, and  thought  much  of  my  dearest  Charles  on  both  days, 
in  our  own  chapel  and  in  that  of  the  Pope ;  but  what  day 
is  there  on  which  I  do  not  think  much  of  him !  The  sun  is 
shining  in  at  the  open  window,  and  the  breezes  bear  all 
the  freshness  of  new  vegetation  to  every  organ,  and  I  feel 
health  and  strength  and  spirit  to  enjoy,  but  it  is  tantalising 
to  feel  that  the  principal  means  of  enjoyment  is  far  away." 

To  her  Mother. 

"18  April,  1828. — I  must  answer  my  dearest  Mother's 
question,  whether  I  ought  not  on  account  of  my  health  to 
come  with  my  children  to  England,  very  decidedly  in  the 
negative.  My  health  is  really  very  good,  the  illness  of  this 
winter  was  an  accident  ....  indeed  I  consider  that  I 
have  many  grounds  for  apprehending  that  my  health  will 
not  be  as  good  as  it  is,  when  I  shall  be  exposed  to  the 
intense  cold  of  a  German  winter,  or  the  continued  raw  damp 
of  an  English  one :  however,  let  that  be  as  it  may ;  suffi- 
cient unto  the  day  is  the  evil  thereof,  and  if  a  burden  is 
sent,  strength  to  bear  it  will  be  granted.  When  I  consider 
the  wear  and  tear  I  have  gone  through  in  the  birth  of  so 
many  children,  and  the  cares  and  anxiety,  the  exertion  of 
body  and  mind,  inseparable  from  the  happiest  earthly  con- 
dition, I  am  only  astonished  that  in  these  last  almost  eleven 
years  I  should  not  have  experienced  a  more  sensible  decay 
of  powers.  I  know  that  I  am  older,  and  that  I  look  older, 
but  I  believe  not  more  so  than  I  should  have  done  from  the 
simple  effect  of  years,  wherever  or  in  whatever  circum- 
stances passed.    Further,  my  own  Mother,  even  if  I  did 


ABSENCE.  309 


not  decide  the  question  so  positively  against  a  removal  on 
account  of  health,  I  should  in  no  case  be  satisfied  to  leave 
Charles.    He  has  been  called  upon  to  leave  me,  and  the 
journey  and  protracted  absence  having  been  brought  about 
by  circumstances  quite  independent  of  us  both,  we  were 
both  bound  to  acquiesce :  but  we  ought  never  to  bring  such 
a  separation  upon  ourselves ;  I  certainly  never  shall,  and  I 
am  convinced  he  will  not ;  whatever  might  have  been  his 
feelings  before,  as  to  the  practicability  of  living  without 
me,  I  have  every  reason  to  imagine  he  has  found  the  reality 
of  absence  worse  than  the  anticipation.    As  to  the  reasons 
of  his  detention,  I  must  explain  a  long  story  as  briefly  as  I 
can.    He  was  in  the  first  place  called  upon  to  discuss  a . 
matter  of  great  importance  in  the  relations  of  the  King  of 
Prussia  with  his  Catholic  subjects,  namely  the  terms  on 
which  mixed  marriages  (betwean  Catholics  and  Protestants) 
may  lawfully  be  contracted ;  the  Court  of  Rome,  as  things 
now  stand,  giving  no  dispensation  without  an  engagement 
that  the  Catholic  party  will  enforce  the  education  of  all  the 
children  in  Catholic  tenets.  This  is  of  course  a  state  of  things 
which  cannot  go  on,  but  it  is  not  easy  to  guess  how  the 
parties  are  to  be  conciliated :  however  Charles  went  away 
from  home  with  a  contrivance  in  his  head,  by  which  the 
matter  was  to  be  accomplished,  and  the  result  time  will 
show.    Then  he  has  had  much  to  do,  in  speaking  and 
writing,  with  respect  to  a  difference  between  the  Catholic 
Bishop  of  Breslau  and  his  own  Diocesans.    But  the  third 
thing  was  the  principal.     The  King  of  Prussia  when  he 
was  in  Borne  established  in  the  Chapel  of  the  Legation  the 
liturgical  form  which  he  had  been  endeavouring  to  induce 
his  subjects  generally  to  adopt,  and  which  in  many  congre- 


310  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUXSEN. 

gations  of  the  Prussian  dominions  has  been  adopted.  To 
this  liturgy  serious  objections  have  with  reason  been  made : 
it  was  put  together  by  persons  little  suited  to  such  a  busi- 
ness, in  compliance  with  the  King's  desire  for  something 
like  the  mode  of  worship  of  the  Church  of  England ;  and 
consists  of  fragments  strung  together,  each  good,  but  want- 
ing a  principle  of  connexion  for  the  furtherance  of  devotion. 
This  liturgy  may  be  said  to  require  a  regular  choir,  and 
such  was  actually  got  together  in  Borne,  amongst  the 
Painters  and  Sculptors,  to  very  good  effect.  But  in  the 
course  of  the  second  summer  after  the  King  was  here, 
many  of  the  principal  members  of  the  choir  travelled  away, 
and  their  places  were  not  to  be  supplied,  and  therefore 
Charles,  with  Bothe  the  chaplain,  availed  themselves  of 
the  pretext  to  re-model  the  whole:  and  they  introduced  a 
form,  in  everything  material  the  same  as  that  of  the  Church 
of  England,  though  varying  in  arrangement.  I  was  amused, 
and  so  will  you  be,  to  think  of  the  liberties  which  the 
subjects  of  a  despotic  monarch  sometimes  take !  Of  course 
no  report  was  made  to  Berlin,  for  that  would  not  have 
done : — and  Charles  now  being  at  Berlin,  had  every  possible 
reason  to  hope  for  an  opportunity  of  communicating  the 
matter,  in  such  a  manner  as  to  ensure  its  not  being  quashed 
at  once  by  Boyal  displeasure.  This  opportunity  was  at  last 
found,  and  on  the  28th  January  the  form  of  divine  service 
here  in  use,  with  accompanying  treatises  and  elucidations, 
was  laid  before  the  King.  An  awful  pause  ensued,  in  the 
course  of  which  Charles  learnt  that  the  King  had  shewn 
himself  much  displeased,  but  had  said  'that  he  would 
leave  the  congregation  at  Borne  at  liberty  to  do  as  they 
pleased:'   he  laid  aside  the   papers,  and  there  seemed 


ABSENCE.  311 


no  hope  of  his  entering  into  the  subject.  However  he 
bethought  himself,  had  the  papers  brought  before  him, 
read  and  explained  by  his  private  secretary,  General  Witz- 
leben,  and  at  last,  had  Charles  summoned  to  a  private 
audience,  in  which  the  business  of  reconciling  him  to  what 
had  taken  place  was  completed.  So  far  all  was  well. 
Charles  was  invited  to  a  farewell  dinner  on  Thursday, 
28  Feb.,  after  which  he  was  graciously  dismissed.  On 
Friday  morning  he  was  in  the  act  of  talcing  leave  of  the 
Crown  Prince,  his  horses  having  been  ordered  for  the  next 
morning,  when  he  received  the  King's  command  to  come  to 
dinner  at  2  o'clock.  On  entering  the  King  said  to  him, 
that  he  wished  him  to  delay  his  journey  a  little  longer,  and 
that  General  Witzleben  would  explain  the  reason.  The 
reason  was  accordingly  explained,  that  the  King  was  re- 
solved to  have  the  whole  printed :  and  that  Charles  must 
superintend  the  printing :  for  that  it  was  to  appear  in  the 
world  with  the  Royal  approbation  and  recommendation. 
Upon  this  business  he  has  been  detained  the  whole  of 
March,  but  his  last  letters  lead  me  really  to  believe  that  he 
will  have  begun  his  journey  on  Easter  Monday  the  7th 
April-    In  that  case,  he  may  be  here  the  middle  of  May." 

To  BUKSEN. 

"23  April,  1828.— My  own  Best-Beloved!  the  idea  of 
your  certain  and  near  return  now  blends  itself  with  every 
thought,  and  gives  importance  to  every  action :  for  almost 

everything  is  done  or  let  alone  with  a  reference  to  it 

Sou  will  tell  us  the  dear  bright  day  of  your  arrival,  and 
then  we  will  drive  in  a  great  troop  to  meet  you,  at  least  as 
far  as  La  Storta,  and  bring  you  home  in  triumph,  and  feed 


312  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

you,  and  let  you  rest,  and  I  snail  place  a  sentinel  at  the 
door  to  say  that  nobody  shall  dare  to  come  in.  And  then 
the  next  morning,  before  the  enemy  has  time  to  make  his 
approaches,  we  will  put  ourselves  into  the  Carrettella,  and 
run  away  to  Tivoli,  with,  the  object  of  freely  and  confi- 
dentially speaking,  hearing,  discussing,  and  being  mutually 
understood  by  each  other,  at  this  recommencement  of  our 
conjugal  existence.  For  you  must  admit,  that  if  you  stay 
in  Borne  in  your  own  house  only  one  day,  a  regular  plan 
of  siege  will  be  formed,  and  all  the  outlets  barricaded,  so 
that  you  can  no  longer  escape,  and  even  if  you  escape  as 
easily  at  the  end  of  four  days  as  at  the  end  of  four  hours, 
the  best  and  freshest  hours  would  be  past,  and  your  head 
so  full  of  Roman  cares  that  you  would  not  be  able  to 
belong  to  yourself  and  to  me,  as  exclusively  as  I  want  and 
expect  and  desire  and  require.  The  eight  months  of  your 
absence  have  been  marked  by  joy  and  grief,  pleasure  and 
plague,  which  we  have  each  had  to  go  through  alone: 
those  circumstances  will  have  left  their  results,  and  pro- 
duced their  modifications  in  both  of  us.  And  after  we  have 
spent  our  days  of  enjoyment  at  Tivoli,  where  we  shall  sit 
out  of  doors,  and  saunter,  and  dawdle,  and  talk  all  day, 
we  will  send  out  a  grand  invitation  to  everybody  we  know, 
to  come  some  evening,  and  then  announce  and  give  out 
that  you  are  every  evening  to  be  found  between  seven  and 
nine  o'clock,  but  never  in  the  morning." 

Bunsen  returned  to  Rome  on  the  21st  of  May,  and 
in  June  the  whole  family  moved  to  Frascati  where  the 
first  floor  of  the  Villa  Piccolomini  was  now  engaged 
for  their  occupation,  and  continued  to  be  their  happy 


ABSENCE.  313 


summer  home  during  all  the  rest  of  their  stay  at  Borne. 
In  a  glorious  situation,  close  to  the  magnificent  Villa 
Aldobrandini,  the  Villa  Piccolomini,  embowered  in 
gToyes  of  bay  and  ilex,  looks  out  on  the  changing 
glories  of  the  view  which  is  unlike  any  other  in  the 
world,  over  the  vast  expanse  of  the  historic  Campagna, 
in  which  the  world's  capital  alternately  gleams  white 
in  the  sunlight,  or  is  lost  in  the  luminous  immensity  of 
the  pink  haze.  Happy  were  the  long  succession  of 
bright  summers  spent  here;  "  happy  was  Bunsen  in 
the  undisturbed  exercise  of  his  faculties  in  productive 
labour,  in  teaching  his  elder  sons  and  superintending 
their  studies;  happy  in  the  relaxation  and  recreation 
furnished  by  that  beautiful  neighbourhood ;  happy  in 
the  society  of  chosen  friends."* 

A  welcome  addition  to  the  daily  society  of  the  Bun- 
sens  at  this  time  was  given  in  Herr  von  Tippelskirch 
and  his  wife,  nie  Countess  Kanitz.  Tippelskirch  was 
appointed  to  succeed  Eothe  in  the  chaplaincy  at  Rome, 
and  both  there  and  at  Frascati  lent  his  cordial  assistance 
to  Bunsen  in  the  education  of  his  sons.f 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Motheb. 

"  Villa  Piccolominiy  Frascati,  6  Jul*/,  1828. — Our  spare 
room  here  is  at  present  occupied  by  Tholuck,  a  clergyman 
who  is  here  as  temporary  successor  to  Eothe,  till  now  chap- 

*  See  Memoirs  of  Baron  Bumen,  i.  357. 

t  Herr  von  Tippelakirch  afterwards  had  a  living  near  Halle,  and 
in  the  latter  part  of  his  life  was  chaplain  of  the  great  government  hos- 
pital at  Berlin,  called  "  La  Charite." 


314  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUN  SEN. 

lain  to  the  Legation,  but  who  has  had  an  appointment  at 
Wittenberg,  and  was  therefore  relieved  at  his  post  till  his 
definitive  successor  can  arrive,  which  will  not  be  till  Easter. 
Tholuck's  presence  is  a  great  pleasure,  and  I  trust  will  be 
a  great  benefit  to  us,  at  least  he  has  greatly  the  gift  of 
instructing,  as  well  as  of  interesting  and  entertaining. 
He  has  distinguished  himself  by  one  or  two  works,  and  is 
a  great  orientalist:  he  has  been  in  England,  I  believe 
chiefly  amongst  the  liberal  Evangelicals  (I  would  not  use 
that  name,  if  I  knew  by  what  other  to  call  them).    Lord 
Bexley  and  Sir  George  Hose  are  the  only  names  I  know 
amongst  the  people  he  was  much  with.    The  summer  is 
delicious,  and  the  children,  more  particularly  the  three 
little  ones,  enjoy  the  exercise  in  the  villas,  which  they  have 

such  constant  opportunities  of  taking My  own 

Mother,  I  hope  to  draw  and  do  all  sorts  of  things  while  I 
am  at  Frascati,  so  much  am  I  impressed  with  the  delightful 
sensation  of  the  possibility  of  employment,  not  hurry.  Since 
we  have  been  here  Charles  has  at  least  once  a  day  wished 
you  were  here  with  us  to  enjoy  it :  that  he  always  does 
when  he  is  very  happy." 

Bunskn  to  Mrs.  Waddington. 

"  Villa  Piccolomini,  6  Aug.,  1828.— My  dear  Mother.  It 
would  have  been  my  duty,  and  it  has  been  continually  my 
most  earnest  wish,  to  communicate  to  you  immediately 
after  my  return  from  Berlin  the  result  of  this  in  many 
respects  most  important  period  of  my  life.  God  knows 
that  I  have  not  found  time  to  do  it  as  early  as  I  intended, 
but  at  Borne  I  was  from  the  first  moment  to  the  last  over- 
whelmed by  accumulated  business  and  never-ceasing  visits 


ABSENCE.  315 


of  old  and  new  friends,  and  here  in  the  country  almost 
three  weeks  have  been  required  to  secure  to  me  that 
external  and  internal  repose,  without  which  I  strongly 
dislike  to  write  letters,  destined,  as  this  is,  to  convey  a 
lasting  image  of  one's  own  life,  and  to  serve  as  a  fixed 
point  and  a  sea-mark,  as  it  were,  to  look  upon  till  the  long 
period  of  separation  is  at  an  end,  and  more  satisfactory 
explanations  can  take  place. 

"I  will  now  begin  the  account  I  owe  you ;  not  of  the 
detail  of  my  Berlin  life,  because  that  is  impossible,  but 
of  the  results  of  the  journey  as  to  my  situation  in  life, 
our  prospects  and  our  plans  for  the  education  of  our 
children. 

"You  are  aware  that  hitherto  I  was,  as  it  were,  a 
stranger  in  the  interior  of  the  State,  whose  service  I  had 
embraced.  Risen  to  a  high  station  in  the  diplomatic  line, 
I  had  no  root  in  the  country  where  my  children  were  to  be 
established.  Firmly  resolved  not  to  die  a  diplomatist  and 
exile,  if  I  could  help  it,  I  was  unable  to  form  a  positive 
plan,  as  to  my  further  career  in  the  King's  service.  God 
be  thanked,  that  both  these  inconveniences  have  disap- 
peared, and  given  room  to  prospects,  and,  humanly 
speaking,  certainties,  far  beyond  all  my  wishes  and  ex- 
pectations. A  stay,  three  times  protracted  to  the  extent 
of  six  months,  not  only  without  my  instrumentality,  but 
on  the  contrary  against  my  decided  wish  and  intention, 
was  at  last  found  to  have  been  necessary  to  call  forth  those 
proofs  of  confidence  of  the  King,  the  Prince  Royal,  and 
the  ministry,  which  enabled  me  to  establish  my  character, 
in  the  moral  and  intellectual  sense,  and  to  mark  out  to 
myself  the  point,  upon  which,  under  the  present  circum- 


316  LIFE  AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS  BUX8EX. 

stances,  I  was  to  bring  to  bear  those  powers  and  acquire- 
ments I  may  possess  to  serve  my  King  and  benefit  my 
country.  These  results  hare  been  as  decisive  as  favour- 
able. 

"  Having  thus,  to  a  certain  degree,  the  free  option  of 
preparing  for  myself  either  a  speedy  return  to  Berlin,  or  an 
establishment  at  Borne  more  fixed  than  before,  my  decision 
was  and  remained,  to  keep  and  to  fortify  that  station,  where 
more  than  ever  I  thank  God  to  be  placed.  It  is  its  retire- 
ment, leisure  and  independence,  which  has  enabled  me  to 
pursue  those  tftudies  which  at  once  have  placed  me  so  high 
in  the  Royal  confidence,  although  I  never  contemplated  in 
their  pursuit  anything  but  my  own  information  and  the 
discovery  of  truth  for  myself  and  my  fellow-creatures. 
Moreover,  as  its  independence  has  given  weight  to  all  I 
had  to  say  on  the  momentous  subjects  under  discussion, 
thus  it  enables  me  now  quietly  to  wait  for  the  right  moment 
of  acting.  When  therefore  towards  the  end  of  my  stay 
all  eyes  were  fixed  on  me,  and  some  considered  it  likely 
that  I  would  remain  at  Berlin,  as  one  of  the  King8 
Ministers,  questions  were  put  to  me  from  many  sides.  My 
open  declaration  was  that  I  claimed  no  favour  of  the 
King's,  besides  that  of  keeping  the  place,  where  my 
services  had  given  satisfaction  to  His  Majesty :  and  I  ^ 
not  conceal  from  those,  who  had  a  right  to  more,  that 
should  ever  the  King  claim  my  services  in  the  administra- 
tion of  the  church  and  public  instruction,  I  would  be  unable 
to  withhold  from  His  Majesty  that  I  concurred  entirely  in 
the  object  which  his  government  wishes  to  attain,  but  tnfl* 
I  did  not  think  the  means  employed,  in  any  way  prop61  *° 
this  great  object  in  view. 


ABSENCE.  317 


"All  my  friends,  and  amongst  them  my  present  chief, 
Count  Bernstorff,  approved  the  view  I  had  taken  so 
decidedly  of  my  situation.  The  Count  therefore  directed 
his  kind  care  to  the  amelioration  of  the  post  entrusted  to 
me.  I  was  given  to  understand  that  after  having  executed 
some  commissions  of  importance,  I  was  to  be  made  Minister 
Plenipotentiary  with  an  increase  of  my  appointments. 

"When  you  now  look  back  to  the  precarious  nature  of 
our  establishment  hitherto,  and  when  you  consider  the 
impossibility  resulting  from  it,  to  pursue  a  regular  system 
of  studies  and  researches,  and  to  form  a  steady  plan  of 
education  for  our  children :  when  on  the  other  hand  you 
present  to  your  mind  the  unparalleled  enjoyment  of  a 
situation  like  mine,  on  the  Capitol,  or  the  delightful  hills 
of  Tusculum,  having  six  months  the  choice  of  the  most 
interesting  society  from  all  parts  of  Europe  without  the 
turmoil  and  noise  of  other  great  towns,  and  the  remainder 
of  the  year  leisure  to  live  as  a  philosopher  and  a  good 
father  of  my  family — when  you  take  all  this  into  due  con- 
sideration, I  am  sure  you  will  be  fully  impressed  with 
thankfulness  for  the  immediate  result  of  my  journey.  You 
will  be  still  more  so,  when  you  see  our  mode  of  life,  our 
domestic  customs,  our  place  in  society,  and  our  quiet  enjoy- 
ment of  the  united  beauties  of  Nature  and  fine  arts,  in 
short  all  which  I  know  and  feel  to  coincide  so  entirely  with 
your  natural  taste  and  the  wishes  of  your  heart  and  mind." 

Madame  Buxsex  to  her  Mother. 

"Rome,  12  Nov.,  1828.  .  .  .  Most  assuredly  religious 
party  spirit  is  the  worst  of  all  bad  things !  The  spirit  of  the 
most  bigoted  Catholics  towards  those  they  called  Heretics, 


318         LIFB  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

is  completely  reproduced  in  the  sentiments  of  Evangelicals 
towards  such  of  their  Protestant  brethren  as  do  not  tie 
themselves  down  to  a  certain  ceremonial  law,  or  think 
themselves  better  than  others  for  not  going  to  balls! 
It  is  however  a  comfort  to  hear  that  there  are  still  such 
people  in  the  world  as  Lady  Louisa  Stuart !  how  I  rejoice 
in  the  idea  of  your  having  had  the  refreshment  of  her 

presence.*    Mrs. will  have  observed  very  soon  that 

my  Mother  and  Lady  Louisa  were  above  using  the  despi- 
cable Shibboleth  of  a  certain  party,  and  having  at  once 
concluded  them  not  to  be  of  the  Evangelicals,  and  there- 
fore of  the  reprobate,  will  have  been  frightened  to  death  at 
the  thought  of  the  contamination,  and  felt  herself  bound 
in  conscience  to  hurry  away. 

"  The  state  of  my  sister-in-law  is  now  most  extraordinary 
and  melancholy.  She  continues  seriously  and  alarmingly 
ill,  and  will  not  see  either  myself  or  Charles.  I  have 
the  comfort  of  knowing  that  she  wants  for  no  care  or 
attention  at  the  hands  of  Louise;  but  last  week  when 
Louise  was  confined  to  bed  with  an  inflammatory  fever,  I 
went  to  see  her  uninvited,  to  know  whether  the  Italian 
girl  who  waited  upon  her  in  place  of  Louise  did  her  duty ; 
and  persisted  in  returning  again  and  again :  till  at  last, 
not  satisfied  with  merely  repulsing  me,  she  drove  me  from 
her  with  a  degree  of  fury  that  I  do  not  consider  myself 
justified  in  again  exciting,  and  Heaven  knows  when  I  shall 
see  her  again,  for  not  having  done  anything  to  occasion 

*  There  was  a  very  close  tie  of  friendship  between  Lady  Louisa 
Stuart  and  Mrs.  Waddington,  which  originated  in  the  almost  motherly 
protection  and  kindness  shown  by  the  Countess  of  Bute  (mother  of  Lady 
Louisa)  to  the  heart-broken  and  desolate  niece  of  Mrs.  Delany  after 
the  death  of  her  aunt  and  adopted  mother. 


ABSENCE.  319 


this  fit  of  humour,  I  can  do  nothing  to  undo  it.  The 
advantage  of  this  misfortune  is,  that  I  hare  my  time  at 
my  own  disposal,  for  the  first  time  for  three  years  and  a 
half,  with  the  exception  of  the  first  six  weeks  at  Frascati 
this  summer:  and  that  is  an  indescribable  relief,  from 
which  both  body  and  mind  gain. 

"  I  have  lately  had  curiosity  gratified,  but  nothing  else, 
in  the  sight  of  Chateaubriand,  who  is  a  rain  creature : 
thinks  himself  handsome,  and  really  speaks  French  so  that 
it  is  a  treat  to  hear  him.  The  sentiments  he  utters  are  as 
yet  a  sort  of  mask,  perhaps  the  time  will  come  when  he 
*H1  utter  opinions,  supposing  he  has  any.'9 


\ 


CHAPTER  IX. 

ROMAN  SUNSHINE. 

"Beholding  tho  bright  countenance  of  Truth  in  the  quiet 
and  still  air  of  delightful  studies." — Milton. — The  Beaton  of 
Church  Govern/Ktttt. 

TN  the  autumn  of  1828  Bunsen  went  to  Florence  to 
■*■  meet  the  Crown  Prince,  afterwards  Frederic  Wil- 
liam IV.  of  Prussia,  and  to  conduct  him  to  Rome.  He 
arranged  that  he  should  enter  the  city  by  that  descent 
from  Monte  Mario,  dear  to  all  Roman  pilgrims,  by 
which  the  whole  glories  of  the  Eternal  City  are  gradu- 
ally unfolded  to  the  traveller  who  follows  the  windings 
of  the  long  descent ;  while,  instead  of  gloomy  walls  and 
a  poverty-stricken  suburb,  the  first  buildings  he  reaches 
are  the  Vatican,  and  St.  Peter's,  and  the  pillared  piazza 
which  two  gigantic  fountains  illuminate  with  their 
silver  spray.  The  fortnight  of  the  Crown  Prince's  stay 
was  delightful  to  all  who  came  in  contact  with  him. 
Whatever  he  visited,  he  saw  with  indescribable  enthu- 
siasm. "  His  soul  is  filled  with  the  highest  and  most 
splendid  designs,"  wrote  Bunsen  to  Schnorr  von 
Carolsfeld,  "and  with  an  amount  of  knowledge  and 


KOMAN  SUNSHINE.  321 


of  capacity  for  entering  into  details,  of  contemplating 
an  object  on  all  sides,  of  weighing  and  balancing,  and 
then  holding  fast  the  best — such  as  in  a  sovereign, 
present  or  future,  will  hardly  ever  be  found."  When 
the  Crown  Prince  left  Rome,  he  was  accompanied  by 
Bunsen  as  far  as  Venice  and  Verona. 

The  next  few  years — in  which  the  chief  outer  events 
were  the  death    of    Leo    XII.,   the    short    reign  of 
Pins  VIII.,  and  the  accession  of  Gregory  XVI. — were 
passed  happily  by  the  Bunsens,  between  their  Capi- 
toline  home  and  the  Villa  Piccolomini  at  Frascati.  The 
duties  of  the  Legation  were  however  so  onerous  as  not 
to  leave  much  time  at  the  disposal  of  Bunsen  for  his 
literary  pursuits,  the  interest  of  which  was  so  fully 
shared  by  his  wife.     One  object  which  he  had  at  heart, 
urged  thereto  by  his  friend  Edward  Gerhard,*  was  the 
establishment  of  an  Archaeological  Institute,  t  for  the 
assistance  of  representatives  of  all  nations,  who  might 
be  interested  in  the  study  of  ancient  Italy.     This  was 
accomplished  amid  many  difficulties,  and  the  Institute, 
liberally  endowed  by  Frederick  William  IV.,  not  only 
still  exists  upon  the  Tarpeian  Rock,  but  is  now  very 
influential.     At  the   same  time,  by  the  unremitting 
exertions  of  Bunsen,  amid  endless  opposition,  the  Pro- 
testant Hospital  (Casa  Tarpeia)  arose  by  the  side  of  the 
Institute,  and  the  Collegium  Preuckianum,  an  old  Roman 

•  Then  "an  early  pioneer,  and  long  an  honoured  centre  of  anti- 
quarian studies  in  Germany."  Dr.  Gerhard  died  at  Berlin,  May,  1867. 
f  Institute  di  Correspondcnza  Archeologica. 

VOL.  I.  Y 


322  LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Catholic  establishment,  founded  by  a  Baron  von  Preuck, 
for  the  assistance  of  young  Roman  Catholic  students  in 
Rome,  was  unearthed  and  brought  again  into  work- 
ing order,  two  cherished  inmates  of  Bunsen's  intimate 
circle  being  the  first  to  profit  by  its  restoration — 
Ambrosch,  who  died  many  years  later  as  Professor  at 
Breslau,  and  the  young  student  of  history,  Papencordt, 
early  snatched  away  from  a  life  of  unusual  promise. 

The  time  of  study  which  Bunsen  could  retrieve  from 
the  " Description %of  Rome" — which  he  always  felt 
burdensome,  but  to  which  he  considered  himself  bound 
by  an  arrangement  (detailed  in  an  after  letter)  with 
the  publisher  Cotta,  for  the  assistance  of  his  friend 
Platner — was  now  devoted  with  hearty  enthusiasm  to 
Egyptian  research  and  the  study  of  hieroglyphics.  He 
was  the  first  to  urge  the  importance  of  such  investiga- 
tions upon  Richard  Lepsius,  "afterwards  one  of  his 
most  valued  friends,  whose  expedition  to  Egypt,  under- 
taken at  the  expense  of  the  Prussian  Government,  was 
crowned  with  important  success. 

Madame  Bunsen's  own  days  were  increasingly  occu- 
pied by  the  care  and  education  of  her  children.  She 
had  a  peculiar  talent  for  making  her  lessons  inter- 
esting by  illustration,  and  for  fixing  the  facts  of  the 
world's  history  in  the  minds  of  her  sons,  by  connecting 
them  with  the  scenes  they  visited  with  her.  Their 
Scripture  lessons  were  often  alike  recalled  with  plea- 
sure by  mother  and  sons.  "All  my  children  knew 
and  loved  their  Bible  "early,"  wrote  Madame  Bunsen 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  323 


long  afterwards — "  my  Ernest,  when  driving  out  with 
me  in  the  carriage,  would  sing  to  himself  the  history  of 
Abraham,  or  some  other  part,  language  and  tune  being 
alike  an  improvisation." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Motheb. 

"  8  Jan.,  1829. — Charles  and  I  have  had  much  pleasure 
in  seeing  Mr.  Gaily  Knight.  We  were  brought  together 
by  Mr.  Wilmot  Horton,  who  consulted  Charles  on  the 
subject  of  his  plan  for  a  bill  in  favour  of  the  Catholics. 
Charles,  at  his  request,  wrote  a  memoir  on  the  subject  of 
the  negotiations  of  Protestant  Powers  with  the  Court  of 
Borne,  which,  as  Mr.  Horton  left  Eome  three  days  after 
Christmas,  was  sent  after  him  by  courier  to  Florence. 
The  courier  was  to  be  sent  off  on  New  Tear's  Day,  and 
Charles  had  not  been  able  to  begin  his  memoir  till  three 
days  before.  In  the  afternoon  of  one  day,  and  the  morning 
of  the  next,  he  finished  it,  to  my  amazement,  considering 
the  bulk  and  the  importance  of  the  matter ;  then  he  gave 
it  to  me  to  read,  and,  as  far  as  I  could,  correct,  in  what 
leisure  intervals  I  could  make  in  the  afternoon  of  the 
second  day :  then  came  the  grand  business  of  transcribing, 
which  I  alone  could  undertake  for  him,  as  neither  of  the 
two  Secretaries  possess  more  than  a  very  slender  portion 
of  English,  of  accuracy,  or  of  speed :  and  this  business  I 
began  upon  at  eleven  on  the  last  day  of  the  year  and 
finished  writing  sixteen  folio  pages  by  two  o'clock  on  the 
morning  of  the  New  Year, — not  having  of  course  written 
without  intervals.  First  I  wrote  from  eleven  till  half- 
past  three,  then  Charles  took  me  a  walk  in  a  bracing  north 
wind,  which  was  very  refreshing :  we  came  back  to  dinner 


32 1  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUKSEN. 

at  five,  after  dinner  rested,  let  the  children  sing  a  hymn 
suited  to  the  close  of  the  year,  sent  them  to  bed,  and  at 
eight  o'clock  set  to  work  again :   at  eleven  we  left  off, 
rested,  and,  together  with  his  sister,  read,  spoke,  or  medi- 
tated on  the  tide  of  time,  and  time  of  tide,  till  the  bell  of  the 
Capitol  announced  the  end  of  the  old  and  beginning  of  the 
new  year ;  soon  after  which  we  set  again  to  work,  and  the 
writing  and  dictating  were  at  an  end  before  two  o'clock. 
I  had  great  satisfaction  in  this  undertaking  from  the  idea 
that  thus  a  quantity  of  very  necessary  information,  such 
as  English  Statesmen  do  not  possess  relative  to  the  Court 
of  Rome,  and  are  not  in  the  way  of  acquiring,  and  such  as 
on  the  whole  nobody  is  so  qualified  to  give  them  as  Charles, 
should  thus  be  conveyed  into  a  channel,  in  which,  please 
God,  it  may  serve  to  ward  off  much  evil." 

"6  March,  1829.— Since  I  sent  off  my  last  letter  we 
have  had  for  the  first  half  of  February  such  intense  cold  as 
I  never  felt  in  Home ;  in  one  part  of  our  own  house,  the 
water  froze  indoors,  and  when,  on  the  15th,  we  went  to 
the  Villa  Pamfili,  after  the  weather  had  been  milder  for 
forty-eight  hours,  we  nevertheless  found  every  fountain, 
and  the  surface  of  the  pool,  still  incrusted  with  massive 
ice,  to  the  great  delight  of  the  children.  This  degree  of 
frost  having  been  accompanied  by  the  keenest  north  wind, 
was  more  penetrating  to  the  human  system  than  a  far 
greater  degree  would  have  been  in  a  northern  climate,  and 
the  sicknesses  and  deaths  that  have  taken  place  in  conse- 
quence have  been  innumerable,  to  begin  with  the  Pope 
and  Torlonia,  whose  deaths  have  produced  the  most 
singular  contrast  in  public  feeling,  the  latter  death  having 
been  as  generally  lamented  (on  account  of  the  extensive 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  325 


alms  by  which  he  endeavoured  to  buy  off  his  offences)  as 
the  former  was  indecently  rejoiced  over,  nothing  but  the 
season,  at  which  it  took  place  having  been  contrary  to  the 
wishes  of  the  Romans.  In  their  sentiments  it  is  impos- 
sible rationally  to  participate,  as  their  hatred  is  grounded 
on  those  parts  of  the  character  and  conduct  of  the  Pope 
for  which  posterity  will  applaud  him!  and  not  his  defects ; 
but  his  merits  were  displeasing  and  inconvenient  to  them. 
Charles  sincerely  regrets  Leo  the  XII. ,  from  his  experience 
of  him  in  the  transaction  of  business,  and  it  is  a  great 
question  whether  his  successor  (whoever  that  may  be)  will 
possess  that  knowledge  of  the  state  of  public  spirit  in 
foreign  countries  which  rendered  it  so  easy  to  argue  with 
him,  and  get  him  to  understand  reason.  Humanly  speak- 
ing, it  was  most  unfortunate  for  Charles  that  the  Pope  did 
not  live  a  few  months  longer,  as  he  was  upon  the  point  of 
completing  an  important  negociation  relative  to  the  mixed 
marriages  of  Catholics  and  Protestants  in  the  Prussian 
dominions,  the  decision  of  which  is  now  of  course  rendered 
not  only  distant  but  uncertain. 

"On  my  birthday  we  went  to  the  Villa  Pamfili.  The 
day  was  delightful,  and  we  enjoyed  ourselves  most 
thoroughly;  and  the  quantity  of  flowers  was  so  great,  that 
I  broke  my  back  with  stooping  after  them,  for  although  I 
had  assistants  enough,  there  was  no  prevailing  with  myself 
to  pass  by  a  red  or  purple  anemone.  But  the  greatest 
enjoyment  of  the  day  was  seeing  my  sweet  Emilia  insist 
upon  walking,  and  scolding  Angelina  for  holding  her 
hand.  "When  Frances  saw  her  walk,  she  also  set  off 
leisurely,  having  before  seated  herself  on  the  grass, 
spreading  out  her  pocket-handkerchief  to  put  the  flowers 


326  LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

in,  as  she  had  once  seen  me  do  when  I  had  forgotten  to 
bring  a  basket. 

"While  Charles  was  laid  up  with  a  cold,  a  friend 
brought  him  '  Tom  Jones '  for  his  amusement,  and  I  was 
induced  by  observing  how  he  laughed  oyer  it,  to  make  a 
trial  myself ;  and  I  confess  the  spirit  of  the  narrative  led 
me  on  for  some  chapters,  but  then  I  remained  sticking  in 
the  mire,  and  I  much  doubt  whether  I  shall  ever  read 
further,  and  most  cordially  do  I  apply  my  dear  Father's 
favourite  epithet,  '  'Tis  a  blackguard  book.'  " 

On  the  11th  of  June  a  fourth  daughter  was  born  in 
the  Palazzo  Caffarelli  and  christened  Mary  Charlotte 
Elizabeth. 

Eunsen  to  Mes.Waddinoton. 

"  26  June,  1829. — I  did  not  mention  in  my  last  letter  a 
most  entertaining  journey  I  have  taken  to  the  sea-shore, 
with  Dr.  Nott,  a  German  professor,  a  German  painter,  and 
M.  Kestner — the  Hanoverian  Charge*  d' Affaires,  as  my 
companions.  We  proceeded  first  by  Civita  Yeochia  to 
Corneto,  where  the  site  of  the  most  ancient  city  Tarquinii, 
the  seat  of  Tarquinius'  ancestors,  of  Etruscan  origin,  and 
the  common  cemetery  of  that  town,  have  lately  been 
discovered.  This  cemetery  has  an  extension  of  six  miles, 
and  presents  a  natural  plain  covered  with  innumerable 
smaller  and  bigger  hills,  that  mark  the  site  of  the  tombs. 
These  tombs  are  all  hewn  in  the  rock  that  lies  under  the 
surface,  and  formed  in  two  or  more  chambers,  some  of 
which  are  still  found  to  contain  the  bones  and  the  finest 
vases,  arms,  &c,  that  the  deceased  possessed :  some  of  the 
paintings  which  abound  on  the  walls  are  likewise  pre- 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  327 


served.    Imagine  that  many  of  these  tombs  are  of  an 
antiquity  of  2,500  years  and  more,   and  show  a  high 
civilisation,  although  the  fine  arts  were  also  here  an  im- 
portation from  Greece.    From  thence  we   proceeded  to 
Musignano,  near  Canino,  the  present  residence  of  Lucien 
Bonaparte,  who  has  established  here  his  head-quarters  in 
order  to  surrey  the  most  interesting  excavations  which  are 
going  on  in  his  territory.    Imagine  a  wide  plain  of  three 
or  four  miles  in  circumference,  entirely  filled  with  tombs, 
hewn  into  the  rock.    In  the  midst  of  this  plain  there  rises 
a  hill,  60  feet  high,  and  200  feet  in  circumference,  which 
has  been  found  to  be  wholly  artificial.     It  was  originally 
surrounded  with  a  fine  circular  wall,   of    huge  square 
stones,  with  an  entrance  payed  with  slabs  of  gilded  bronze. 
The  inside    presents    chapels,    towers,    rooms,   &c,   all 
destroyed  and  stripped  of  their  costly  ornaments,  and  the 
whole  was  undoubtedly  the  sepulchral  monument  of  the 
royal  dynasty     The  tombs  are  for  the  greatest  part  still 
filled  with  the  most  beautiful  rases,  of  which  Lucien  already 
possesses  2,000  at  Musignano,  among  which  there  are  200 
of  the  first  rank,  whereas  in  the  whole  of  Europe  there 
are  not  twenty  others  of  that  merit.    Now  imagine  the  odd 
way  in  which  he  lives  there  and  in  which  we  found  him. 
About  two  miles  from  his  castle  he  has  erected  two  tents, 
ui  the  one  he  sits  himself,  with  his  old  Franciscan  friar, 
who  always  accompanies  him,  surrounded  with  inscrip- 
tions, papers,  and  books :  the  other  gives  shelter  to  the 
horses  who  are  always  ready  to  carry  him  or  his  aides-de- 
cw&p  to  any  point  of  the  field.    Now  and  then  one  of 
them  comes  in  to  say :  *  Eccellenza,  a  new  vase  has  been 
found,'  or  '  a  golden  ring  is  here,'  or  '  an  inscription,'  &c. 


328  LIFE   ASD   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


If  the  object  is  small,  it  is  brought  to  him  to  be  regis- 
tered, and  if  gold  sent  to  the  Princess,  who  has  a  rich 
collection  of  gold  parure  of  God  knows  how  many  and 
how  old  Etruscan  queens  and  ladies,  some  of  which  she 
wears  herself,  as  bracelets,  chains,  &c,  of  most  beautiful 
workmanship.  If  it  is  a  vase,  he  goes  himself  to  the  spot, 
and  gives  his  directions  how  it  may  be  removed,  washed, 
and  sent  to  Musignano.  We  were  ourselves  present  at 
such  a  discovery.  It  was  a  great  and  beautiful  vase,  all 
covered  with  mud.  When  brought  to  the  light,  it  was 
washed,  and  one  figure  after  the  other,  witnesses  of  the 
once  active  genius,  came  out  of  darkness  and  mud.  Then 
we  went  with  him  to  his  castle.  Before  it  there  are  two 
winged  lions,  of  natural  size,  sculpture  work  of  the 
Etruscans :  twelve  such  stood  as  guards  at  the  entrance 
of  the  royal  tomb  before  described.  The  family  life  of 
Musignano  is  very  good,  simple,  and  worthy.  Lord  and 
Lady  Dudley  were  presont.  Ladies  and  gentlemen  speak 
of  nothing  but  vases,  Etruscan  arts  and  kings ;  no  politics, 
no  regrets.  The  Franciscan  friar  is  the  master  of  the 
house.  The  young  princes  seem  modest  and  good-natured. 
We  dined  there  and  then  went  to  Ganino :  in  the  morning 
we  returned  to  see  the  collection  a  second  time.  What  a 
curious  spectacle  to  see  Napoleon's  brother,  as  busily  em- 
ployed among  the  tombs  of  Etruscan  kings  and  lords,  and 
roaming  about  the  monuments  of  past  ages  in  a  deserted 
country,  as  once  among  kings  and  princes  of  the  day." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  22  July,  1829. — This  the  anniversary  of  the  birth,  and 
of  the  death,  of  my  first  precious  Mary,  who  has  now  been 
seven  years  '  set  free  from  sin,  and  sorrow,  and  mortality:1 


ROHAN   SUNSHINE.  329 

■  »'t  .        .     .       -  .  -        .  —    — 

—and  I  am  now  blessed  with  a  fourth  girl,  and  a  second 
Mary,  as  perfect  and  as  full  of  promise  as  an  infant  can 
be :  and  if  the  remembrance  of  what  has  been  experienced 
checks  the  flow  of  sanguine  expectation,  the  conviction, 
which  all  experience  hourly  strengthens,  that  mercy  alone 
dealt  out  the  pain,  as  well  as  the  joy,  leads  to  the  tran- 
quillising  result,  that  to  rejoice  in  hope  is  not  only  per- 
mitted, but  commanded:  and  that,  on  the  ground,  that 
even  should  the  gratification  of  hope  be  denied  in  things 
human,  the  denial  will  be  the  more  abundantly  compen- 
sated in  things  divine.  My  own  Mother,  the  feeling  that 
arose  in  writing  the  date,  I  wished  to  communicate,  but  I 
know  not  how  much  of  it  is  expressed,  or  how  much  you 
will  have  to  guess,  for  George  is  by  me,  writing  on  the 
elate  in  great  capital  printing-letters,  a  Latin  declension, 
at  every  stroke  of  which  I  have  to  hear  and  answer  some 
question  or  observation:  you  will  be  amused  at  this 
branch  of  study,  which  is  a  most  delightful  occupation : 
Mother  and  son  go  solemnly  together  to  fetch  a  word  from 
Papa,  because  if  I  was  to  send  George  alone,  he  might 
forget  some  ease  or  other,  and  then  I  should  not  know  how 
to  put  him  in :  and  then  he  writes  his  slate  full,  which, 
what  with  getting  the  word  right,  and  the  spelling  right, 
and  the  letters  as  right  as  he  can  make  them,  lasts  a  long 
time,  during  which  period  I  have,  many  days,  cut  out 
several  frocks  and  such  like  things,  but  writing  does  not  go 
on  quite  as  well  in  his  company,  and  I  should  choose  another 
time,  were  not  choice  of  times  and  seasons  a  matter  that 
with  respect  to  me  is  a  manner  of  speaking.  Besides 
George  on  one  side,  I  have  my  poor  sick  Frances  on  my 
lap,  sometimes  with  her  head  on  a  little  pillow,  and  some- 


330  LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

times  on  my  left  arm,  which,  will  account  for  scrawling ; 
but  an  interruption  I  cannot  call  her,  for  she  is  still  too 
unwell  to  be  capable  of  being  amused.  Emilia  is  very 
engaging  and  attaching  in  her  behaviour  since  her  sister's 
illness,  bo  full  of  concern  to  see  Frances  lie  down  and  be 
carried  about ;  rejoicing  to  see  her  eat  again  with  a  spoon ; 
caressing  her  and  stroking  her  on  all  occasions,  and  what 
most  of  all  delights  me,  showing  no  jealousy  of  her  sister, 
altho'  a  great  anxiety  not  to  be  forgotten  by  me:  for 
when  I  am  busied  about  Frances  she  never  teases  to 
come  to  me,  but  whenever  I  try  the  experiment  of 
sending  Frances  to  Angelina,  she  sets  off,  and  comes  to 
me,  and  stands  modestly  by  me,  fixing  her  large  eyes  on 
my  face,  and  silently  begging  to  be  taken  in  lap;  and 
when  I  take  her,  there  is  nothing  she  does  not  do  to  show 
her  quiet  happiness. 

"My  own  dearest  Mother,  my  precious  Mary  was  bap- 
tized on  the  12th  July,  and  received  the  names  of  Mary 
Charlotte  Elizabeth,  Mary  being  the  name  of  my  own 
Mother,  and  of  my  sister-in-law  (also  godmother)  who 
held  the  precious  darling's  heavy  weight.  I  stood  to 
represent  my  Mother,  and  two  acquaintances  of  ours  repre- 
sented the  Countess  Bernstorff  and  her  mother  the 
Countess  Dornath,  who  were  the  two  other  godmothers : 
Charles  represented  his  friend  M.  Strauss  (a  celebrated 
preacher  and  theologian  in  Berlin),  and  our  friend  Major 
Scharnhorst  arrived  in  Borne  in  time  to  represent  Count 
Groben,  the  other  godfather,  the  excellent  and  gallant 
son-in-law  of  General  Dornberg,  whom  Charles  saw 
more,  and  delighted  in  more,  than  anybody  else,  when 
ho  was  in  Berlin,  and  with  whom  I  became  acquainted 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  331 

when   he  was  in  Borne  —  aide-de-camp  to  the  Grown 
Prince." 

"  15  August,  1829. — My  Mother  expresses  surprise  at 
hearing  of  Charles's  being  engaged  in  a  work  on  Borne, 
and  I  am  still  more  surprised  that  I  should  never  have 
written  her  word  of  it;  but  still,  on  reflection,  I  can 
account  for  not  haying  done  so,  from  Charles's  only  haying 
become  entangled  in  the  business,  so  that  it  was  an  old 
story  as  relating  to  other  people,  before  it  became  a  new 
story  as  relating  to  him ;  and  it  has  now  for  many  years 
been  such,  an  old  story  altogether,  that  I  must  have 
supposed  I  had  related  it  to  you  long  ago.  The  com- 
mencement of  it  dates  from  the  first  winter  after  our 
marriage,  when  Mr.  Niebuhr  and  Mr.  Brandis,  in  con- 
junction with  Charles,  were  puzzling  their  beads  to  find 
oat  an  occupation  for  Platner,  by  which,  his  talents  and 
knowledge  might  be  made  to  turn  to  account  for  his 
family,  Platner  baying  till  that  time  been  by  profession  a 
painter,  in  consequence  of  bis  Father  choosing  to  make 
him  one,  whether  nature  chose  it  or  not*    At  last  Mr. 

•  The  father  had  been  forced  against  his  will  to  become  Professor 
of  Latin  and  Greek  at  Leipeic,  when  his  own  longing  was  for  the  life 
of  an  artist.  His  son  Ernest  was  consequently  forced  to  an  art  life, 
though  he  was  naturally  a  bookworm,  and  could  not  paint.  He 
executed  a  cartoon  of  Hagar  and  Ishmael  represented  at  the  two 
opposite  ends  of  a  vast  canvas,  the  space  between  being  intended  for 
the  "  stone's  throw !"  The  German  artists  in  Borne  had  agreed  that 
when  any  of  their  society  finished  a  work,  the  rest  should  see  it  and 
give  a  candid  opinion  of  it.  Cornelius  expressed  his  opinion  of  the 
cartoon  of  Platner  by  leaping  straight  through  the  canvas  and  saying, 
M  Now,  if  you  will  join  the  two  ends  there  may  be  some  composition." 
The  obligatory  Bystem  of  education  in  the  Platner  family  was  carried 
on  into  the  third  generation,  in  which  a  young  man  whose  natural 
tendencies  were  all  towards  the  life  of  an  artist,  was  compelled  to 
classical  studies. 


332         LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

Brandis  suggested  his  undertaking  a  new  edition  of  Volk- 
mann's  and  Lalande's  Description  of  Borne,  for  which  he 
believed  him  well  qualified,  from  his  very  complete  know- 
ledge of  the  arts,  and  of  the  antiquities  of  the  Middle 
Ages,  and  of  the  history  of  Italy  altogether ;  but  as  from 
not  possessing  the  Latin  language,  Platner  was  dis- 
qualified from  going  farther  back  than  Italian  would  carry 
him,  Mr.  Niebuhr  and  Mr.  Brandis  promised  to  manage 
between  them  the  classical  part  of  the  work,  and  Charles 
promised  to  help  Platner  whenever  he  should  have  need  of 
reference  to  Latin  works  in  the  execution  of  his  portion 
of  the  undertaking.  Cotta  the  celebrated  bookseller  was 
that  winter  at  Home,  and  entered  with  the  greatest  alacrity 
into  the  plan ;  the  work  was  to  be  executed  on  his  account, 
ho  was  to  pay  two  louis  d'or  for  every  printed  sheet,  and 
gave  carte  blanche  for  the  purchase  of  the  necessary  books 
of  reference.  This  was  very  liberal,  but  at  the  same  time 
a  good  speculation,  for  Cotta  judged,  and  judged  rightly, 
that  a  work  for  which  Niebuhr  and  Brandis  were  the 
vouchers,  would  be  worth  his  money.  The  contract  was 
made  just  a  month  before  Henry  was  born,  and  Platner 
set  to  work  in  the  first  place,  to  make  a  historical  account 
of  the  Basilicas,  or  principal  churches,  of  Home.  But  here 
he  was  every  moment  at  a  stand  without  Charles,  from  the 
quantity  of  Latin  necessary  to  wade  through ;  and  came 
about  three  evenings  in  every  week  for  advice  and  correc- 
tion of  style — the  latter  being  with  Platner  the  most  tedious 
of  all  matters,  as  he  considers  it  his  duty  to  fight  tooth  and 
nail  for  his  own  arrangement  of  materials,  and  his  own 
use  of  German  words.  Nearly  three  years  passed  before 
anything  was  considered  so  far  finished  as  to  be  shown  to 


ROMAN   SUNSHIXE.  333 

Mr.  Niebuhr,  but  when  lie  saw  at  last  a  description  of  the 
Lateran,  which,  had  cost  Charles  time  and  breath  not  to  be 
calculated,  and  patience  more  than  I  should  ever  have 
thought  that  he  possessed — his  exclamation  to  Charles 
was,  '  But  can  you,  my  good  friend,  for  a  moment  imagine 
that  what  Platner  has  here  written  can  be  sent  to  press  ? ' 
This  was  a  comforting  decision!  but  one  against  which 
Charles  could  not  protest:  he  answered  Mr.  Niebuhr, 
'Then  I  must  write  the  thing  myself!  for  I  cannot  do 
more  than  I  have  already  done  to  help  Platner  to  write  it.* 
Wherefore  Charles  began  at  the  beginning — and  soon 
brought  Mr.  Niebuhr  a  history,  description,  and  a  detailed 
criticism  of  the  Lateran,  and  of  S.  Paolo  fuori  le  Mura, 
which  obtained  not  only  approbation,  but  high  commenda- 
tion :  and  now  it  was  settled  (as  it  ought  to  have  been  at 
first)  that  Mr.  Niebuhr  was  to  keep  to  ancient  Eome  and 
its  vestiges,  Charles  to  the  Middle  Ages  and  their  remains, 
and  Platner  to  the  Museums  and  Galleries — to  which  he 
has  proved  himself  fully  competent.  Mr.  Brandis  had 
been  long  since  f  over  the  hills  and  far  away ! '  and  the 
time  soon  came  when  Mr.  Niebuhr  was  also  to  depart, 
without  having  contributed  anything  to  the  work  except  a 
short  dissertation,  small  in  bulk  tho'  great  in  import- 
ance, on  the  history  of  the  building,  improving,  increasing, 
&minishing,  and  destroying  of  ancient  Eome :  he  was 
very  sorry  not  to  have  done  more,  but  his  having  been 
prevented  from  fulfilling  his  promise  originated  in  one  of 
the  weaknesses  of  his  character.  He  had  promised  Gau 
the  architect  to  be  Editor  of  some  inscriptions  found  by 
Gau  in  Nubia,  which  the  latter  wished  to  publish  together 
with  engravings  from  his  drawing  taken  in  that  journey, 


334    LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUN  SEN. 

but  which  could  only  be  published  after  the  revision  of  a 
critical  scholar.  But  Mr.  Niebuhr  never  intended  to  do 
this  till  after  he  had  finished  his  portion  of  the  work  on 
Borne.  Gau,  however,  being  at  Paris,  published  an 
advertisement  of  his  work,  mentioning  Mr.  Niebuhr's 
editorship,  and  promising  all  within  the  year,  and  thus 
entrapped  Mr.  Niebuhr,  who  felt  himself  bound  to  enable 
Gau  to  keep  his  word,  which  I  do  not  think  he  was : — and 
as  soon  as  he  had  laboured  thro'  his  Nubian  inscrip- 
tions, the  time  of  departure  was  come,  and  he  left  Charles 
alone  with  the  weight  of  the  Roman  work  on  his  shoulders, 
and  the  whole  business  of  the  Prussian  Legation,  for 
which  Mr.  Niebuhr  and  Charles  together  had  not  been  too 
much !  Since  that  time,  he  got  rid  of  a  part  of  the  anti- 
quities to  Professor  Gerhard,  an  excellent  as  well  as 
learned  person,  and  our  very  good  friend :  and  a  part  of 
the  Middle  Ages  to  our  good  Rostell,  now  for  the  last 
year  attached  to  the  Legation.  These  two  persons  will 
derive  from  Cotta  the  payment  for  the  sheets  they  write, 
which  Charles  does  not,  as  he  works  for  Plainer :  in  addi- 
tion Rostell,  has  undertaken  to  correct  Platner,  and  dispute 
with  him." 

"  Irascati,  19  Oct,  1829. — My  own  dearest  Mother!  and 
are  you  indeed  on  the  road  to  me !  and  will  this  letter 
find  you  within  a  few  days'  journey  of  me !  I  write  the 
words,  think  the  thought,  and  feel — but  cannot  yet  believe 
the  fact! 

"  And  now,  my  own  Mother,  a  new  set  of  anxieties  arise, 
which  I  try  to  keep  as  quiet  as  I  can.  What  will  you 
think  of  the  new-old  thing  that  you  will  find  in  me  ?  Judg- 
ing by  myself  (for  I  have  not  the  power  of  fancying  either 


ROMAN  SUNSHIHE.  335 


you  or  Augusta  a  day  older  than  when  I  last  saw  you)  I 
doubt  not  that  you  will  be  struck,  and  shocked,  at  my 
aged  appearance, — not  considering  that  12  years  are  12 
years,  which  besides  tell  more  after  six  and  twenty  than 
before:  and  if  their  'times,  their  seasons,  and  their 
change,'  operato  on  the  physique,  not  less  does  their  weal 
and  woe,  their  rough  and  smooth,  their  sweet  and  bitter, 
affect  the  morals  whether  by  relaxation  or  tension,  whether 
parching  or  chilling,  whether  furrowing  or  obliterating. 
And  then,  my  own  Mother,  what  will  be  your  feelings 
towards  my  heart's  treasure,  my  delight,  my  comfort, — I 
had  almost  said  my  idol — perhaps  the  expression  is  more 
just  than  justifiable — my  Charles !  If  defects  should 
strike  and  displease  you,  will  you  make  allowance  for  the 
severest  of  trials  thro'  a  long  course  of  years, — the 
gratification  of  every  wish — the  flattery  of  the  great— the 
love,  adoration  of  the  good — the  admiration,  applause  of 
the  intelligent — in  a  word,  the  favour  of  fortune  in  its 
most  seducing  form  ?  and  will  you  then  instead  of  counting 
up-human  inperf  ections,  only  wonder  at  the  sterling  worth 
that  has  remained  so  unspoiled  ?  and  if  at  last  something 
remains  to  be  covered,  will  you  take  my  love,  my  admira- 
tion, xny  approbation,  as  one  grand  mass  of  conclusive, 
comprehensive  evidence,  and  consider  that  as  I  am  the 
nearest  and  know  the  most,  I  must  be  able  to  judge  the 

best? 

"  And  then,  my  own  Mother,  will  you  take  my  children 
for  such  as  they  are,  and  not  wonder  and  be  displeased  at 
finding,  generally  speaking,  but  common-place  sort  of 
things? 

"  My  sister-in-law  bids  me  say  for  the  thousandth  time 


336  LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BAROXESS   BTJNSEX. 

how  tantalising  it  is  to  her  to  think  of  seeing  you  and  not 
being  able  to  converse  with  you.  That  vexes  me  as  much, 
or  more  even  than  it  can  vex  her— could  you  quite  form 
the  acquaintance  of  that  astonishing,  unique  person,  it 
would  be  a  key  to  many  an  enigma,  with  respect  to  me,  and 
to  her  resistless  influence  over  everybody  with  whom  she  . 
has  to  do.*  My  own  Mother !  is  this  the  last  letter  ? 
when  I  think  of  that,  I  am  half  blind,  and  my  hand 
trembles,  and  why  need  I  write  on  ?  To  be  sure  I  have 
a  world  to  communicate  ;  but  soon  I  shall  not  need  ink  or 
paper." 

In  the  beginning  of  November  the  meeting  so  often 
deferred,  but  looked  forward  to  with  such  ecstasy, 
really  took  place,  and  Mother  and  daughter  were  united 
after  twelve  years'  separation,  finding  that  absence  had 
rather  strengthened  than  weakened  the  bond  between 

*  Christiana  Bunsen  was  believed  to  possess  the  powers  of  second 
sight  to  an  extraordinary  degree.  On  the  occasion  of  the  visit  of  tho 
Crown  Prince  (afterwards  Frederick  William  IV.)  to  the  Palazzo 
Caffarelli,  when  all  were  filled  with  admiration  of  his  natural  charms 
and  predicted  for  him  the  most  brilliant  future,  no  one  paid  any 
special  attention  to  the  weird  and  unprepossessing  woman  who  sate  in 
a  corner,  grim  and  silent,  but  all-observant.  Afterwards  her  brother 
asked  her  what  had  been  tho— apparently  engrossing — subject  of  her 
thoughts.  "  I  was  thinking,"  she  said,  "  of  the  words  in  the  12th 
verse  of  the  8th  chapter  of  the  2nd  Book  of  Kings,  *  I  know  the  evU 
that  thou  wilt  do  unto  the  children  of  Israel.' "  In  later  life  Madame 
Bunsen  frequently  described  Christiana's  strange  insight  into  cha- 
racter:— "She  used  to  give  me  descriptions  of  all  the  different  persons 
who  came  to  the  house,  not  gathered  from  their  conversation,  for  she 
never  understood  a  word  they  said,  but  yet,  whenever  I  knew  the 
facts,  her  descriptions  were  quite  correct,  and  where  I  did  not  know 
them — why,  it  was  very  amusing  and  interesting  for  mc  to  hear  what 
she  had  to  sav." 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  337 


them.  Mrs.  "Waddington  remained  at  Borne  till  the 
following  July,  and  thus  enjoyed  the  happiness  of 
obtaining  something  more  than  a  mere  nominal  rela- 
tionship to  the  many  young  lives  which  had  sprung  up 
unseen  by  her;  while  her  ever  calm  judgment  and 
bright  intelligence  rendered  her  a  most  welcome  addi- 
tion to  the  circle  of  friends  who  formed  the  society  of 
Palazzo  Caffarelli.  Madame  Bunsen,  on  her  side, 
rejoiced  to  make  the  acquaintance  of  her  brother-in- 
law  Mr.  Hall,  of  Abercarne,  and  to  renew  her  relation- 
ship towards  her  sister  Augusta,  whom  she  had  last 
seen  as  a  child,  and  who  was  already  the  mother  of  two 
children,  to  whom  a  third  was  added  at  Rome  in  the 
rammer  of  1830. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  ViUa  Piccolomini,  14  July,  1830. — My  own  dearest 
Mother !  in  the  unceasing  bustle  and  fatigue  of  the  last 
two  days,  it  is  not  yet  clear  to  me  as  matter  of  feeling  that 
you  are  literally  gone,  and  that  I  have  it  not  in  my  power 
to  go  and  see  you !  Oh  I  am  thankful  indeed  for  having 
had  you  so  long  near,  for  having  seen  you  so  much  I 
But  I  will  say  nothing  of  feelings,  for  I  would  not  for  tho 
world  cause  a  tear.  I  wish  I  could  think  my  own  Mother 
had  shed  as  few  as  I  have  done  since  we  parted !  I  have 
had  so  much  to  do,  and  have  been  obliged  to  think  of  bo 
many  fiddle-faddles,  that  I  have  in  general  succeeded  in 
avoiding  thinking  over  what  will  not  bear  thinking  of. 

"At  half -past  four  In  the  afternoon  Charles  and  I,  with 
nurse  and  baby,  Frances  and  Emilia,  and  Angelina  in  the 

vol*  i.  z 


338        LIKE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

carrettella,  set  out  from  Borne,  having  before  sent  off  three 
cart-loads  of  belongings,  to  follow  up  the  three  cart-loads 
6ent  on  Monday.  The  drive  was  intensely  hot ;  we  arrived 
however  Bafe,  and  it  was  with  a  peculiar  feeling  that  I 
commented  to  Charles  on  our  doing  so,  having  had  on  my 
mind  all  day  an  apprehension  that  we  should  not  get  to 
Frascati  without  an  accident.  We  began  arranging  beds 
and  couches  with  great  activity,  and  were  agreeably  sur- 
prised at  the  appearance  of  our  carts  at  nine  o'clock,  which 
we  had  feared  would  have  kept  us  up  longer,  as  without 
some  of  their  contents,  there  were  not  mattresses  enough 
for  all  the  family— eighteen  souls  and  bodies.  About  an 
hour  after  ourselves,  the  second  carrettella  arrived,  which 
contained  my  sister-in-law,  Simon,  and  the  four  boys.  As 
I  was  in  incessant  movement  from  one  end  of  the  house  to 
the  other,  and  only  still  when  I  was  feeding  others  and 
myself,  it  is  to  be  accounted  for  that  I  never  uttered  the 
usual  question  'Are  you  come  Bafe? '  Wherefore  guess  my 
sensations  to-day,  on  hearing  from  my  sister-in-law,  whom 
I  asked  the  reason  of  a  terrible  bruise,  that  they  had 
been  overturned  by  the  way,  and  all  pitched  out  of  the 
carriage  like  so  many  balls !  but  how  can  we  be  thankful 
enough,  that  nobody  was  hurt  but  her  unfortunate  self, 
though  she  fell  with  her  head  against  a  stone,  and  was  for 
a  longtime  senseless.  The  coachman's  supplications  to  my 
sister-in-law  were  the  cause  of  their  not  telling  of  the  mis- 
fortune till  he  was  clear  off  in  the  morning,  and  had  re- 
ceived his  tnancia.  It  was  rather  hard  work  to  George  to 
be  silent,  and  he  asked  Mr.  Simon  if  he  might  not  at  least 
tell  the  nurse." 

"15  July,  1830.— Charles  has  had  a  number  of  thei&"»- 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  339 


burgh  Itevietclent  him  by  Dr.  Wiseman,  in  which  I  have  read, 
to  my  information  and  amusement,  a  long  article  by  Dr. 
Hahnemann  on  the  Homoeopathic  system ;  it  is  evidently 
written  by  a  person  more  taken  by  the  new  theory  than  he 
thinks  proper  to  admit,  for  fear  of  being  ridiculed,  and  I 
wish  what  is  there  stated,  for  and  against,  by  the  head  of 
the  party  and  his  antagonists,  may  make  upon  my  Mother 
the  impression  it  has  made  upon  me,  confirming  what  I 
had  been  inclined  to  think  before,  that  altho'  the  abuse 
of  this  and  of  all  modes  of  practice  is  and  must  be  most 
mischievous,  yet  there  is  something  in  it  of  more  than  plausi- 
bility. 

"  I  wish  my  Mother  could  have  seen  this  house,  that  I 
might  make  her  comprehend  how  comfortable  we  are  now 
in  it.  "We  have  contrived  lying-down  places  for  everybody, 
the  luxury  of  which  we  fully  feel,  now  that  the  heat  is  so 
intense.  On  Thursday  evening  we  drove  down  to  Grotta 
Ferrata,  and  enjoyed  an  approach  towards  coolness  in  the 
air:  afterwards,  in  the  short  interval  between  feeding  the 
children,  letting  Henry  and  Ernest  sing  their  hymns,  dis- 
patching all  to  bed,  and  going  to  bed  myself,  I  read  the 
newspaper  accounts  of  royal  exits  and  entrances,  and  was 
surprised  at  the  Times  article  on  the  history  and  character 
of  George  IV.  I  was  so  afraid  of  being  disgusted  by  the 
common  practice  of  canonizing  the  dead,  merely  because 
they  are  dead,  that  I  was  gratified  by  the  unsparing  re- 
probation, without  bitterness,  of  the  private  character  and 
habits  of  the  King,  altho'  I  thought  his  political  con- 
duct rated  too  high,  and  could  not  but  be  offended  by  the 
continuance  of  the  tone  of  unqualified  approbation  applied 
to  Queen  Caroline.     Yesterday  morning  Charles  went  with 


340    LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEK. 


his  boys  between  six  and  seven  to  the  Villa  Conti.  After 
breakfast,  George  read  one  of  Watts's  Hymns  out  of  his 
Grandmamma's  book,  and  was  greatly  delighted  to  ascertain 
that  it  was  given  to  himself ;  and  then  wrote  a  little,  but 
the  heat  was  such,  that  I  would  not  let  him  do  more,  in 
the  intervals  of  being  with  Simon.  As  to  myself,  except 
cutting  out  a  frock  for  George,  I  did  nothing  all  morning 
but  what  could  be  done  lying  down,  so  utterly  inert  had 
the  heat  made  me.  I  am  reading  the  Life  of  Columbus, 
by  Washington  Irving,  a  book  in  the  stjle  of  a  book- 
maker, full  of  words,  and  with  a  great  pretension  to  the 
communication  of  new  information  drawn  from  manu- 
script documents,  which,  however,  as  far  as  I  have  pro- 
ceeded, I  do  not  detect.  My  Mother,  at  every  turn  I  find 
some  little  thing  or  another  that  you  or  Augusta  have  left 
me,  which  is  always  a  new  pleasure." 

Bunsen  to  Mrs.  Waddington. 

"Frascati,  17  July,  1830.— My  dearest  Mother.  I  was 
very  sorry  that  a  first  sheet  went  without  a  line  from  my 
hand,  because  I  really  wanted  to  write  to  you,  as  I  have 
always  wanted  to  speak  to  you,  to  open  to  you  my  heart,  to 
gaze  upon  you  and  catch  every  glimpse  of  that  countenance 
full  of  benevolence  and  kindness.  The  more  I  feel  this, 
the  more  I  feel  thankful  for  the  great  blessing  conferred 
upon  us  by  your  kindness  in  coming  over  to  see  us :  the 
heart  has  so  much  to  feed  upon,  and  the  mind  has  enjoyed 
so  much  reality,  that  all  farther  wishes,  ardent  as  they 
may  be,  are  in  comparison  thrown  into  the  background 
and  vanish.  I  never  loved  you  enough,  nor  do  I  so  now, 
when  I  contemplate  all  I  admire,  respect,  and  love  in  you ; 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  341 

and  I  feel  more  than  ever  that  so  noble  a  soul,  so  generous 
a  heart,  a  mind  so  entirely  occupied  with  the  happiness  of 
others  is  never  known  nor  loved  as  it  ought :  but  that 
feeling  again  is  happiness." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"Frascati,  17  August,  1830. — My  children  are  all  well. 
Mary  in  particular  is  the  wildest  of  the  wild,  and  is  the 
most  amusing,  droll,  saucy  thing  that  ever  was,  insisting 
upon  having  her  own  way  in  everything,  and  sometimes 
most  exceedingly  naughty,  scolding,  demanding,  insisting, 
and  triumphing  when  she  gets  the  better.  You  will  be 
surprised  perhaps  that  not  one  of  the  children  has  oftener 
spoken  of  you  since  your  departure,  than  Emilia,  who 
often  alludes  to  'quella  Nonna  di  noi.'  Charles  had  a 
letter  the  other  day  from  Sir  William  Gell,  in  which  he 
Bays,  '  I  charge  you  and  Mrs.  Bunsen  to  beware  of  eating 
pears,  for  his  Britannic  Majesty's  Charge  d' Affaires  for 
Hanover  has  made  the  observation,  that  one  very  fine  young 
lady  eat  one  pear,  and  immediately  had  strong  dollars  in  her 
boddles ' ;  dolori  nelli  budelli. 

"  I  hope  and  believe  that  you  have  had  newspapers,  and 
that  you  may  not  have  been  without  particulars  of  the 
revolutionary  state  of  France,  and  to  enable  you  to  admire 
the  conduct  of  the  people  of  Paris :  God  grant  that  the 
bloodshed  may  have  had  an  end,  not  to  be  renewed,  and 
that  the  spirit  of  moderation  may  continue.  I  wish  the 
Duke  of  Orleans  was  of  a  character  suited  to  his  high 
destiny,  but  his  conduct  appears  to  me  wholly  without 
dignity;  he  is  no  William  of  Orange!  I  have  stupidly 
forgotten  who  said  of  the  late  era  of  the  world,  beginning 


342         LIFE  AND  JJETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

with  the  fall  of  Napoleon,  '  Lea  evenemens  de  110s  jours 
ont  6te  grands — mais  ils  ont  trouve  les  homines  petits.' 
Charles  was  told,  two  years  ago,  by  a  person  well  informed, 
that  the  Duke  of  Orleans  had  been  thus  addressed,  by  a 
member  of  the  c6ie  gauche — '  Monseigneur,  soyez  tranquille, 
nous  ferons  la  revolution  pour  vous,  et  malgre  vous.'* 
We  have  been  and  are  in  such  a  state  of  excitement  in 
anticipation  of  political  news,  that  I  hardly  know  how  the 
time  passes,  and  forget  the  days  of  the  week  and  month. 
Charles  works  like  a'  horse,  at  his  collection  of  hymns,  and 
the  introductory  essay  on  that  description  of  sacred  poetry 
in  Germany.  I  read  with  pleasure  in  Coleridge's  book, 
which  I  think  is  of  the  class  that  are  a  gain  in  one's 
existence.  I  have  been  one  evening  at  Cardinal  Weld's; 
they  all  seem  to  me  very  good,  kind  people." 

"  Frascati,  30  July,  1830. — 0  my  own  Mother!  how  en- 
joyable is  our  existence  here !  and  0  if  you  could  but  have 
been  with  us !  I  will  not  say  that  again,  but  could  not 
help  saying  it  this  once,  under  the  fresh  impression  of  your 
journey.  We  have  established  a  porter  at  our  gate,  as 
usual  when  we  are  settled  here,  and  thereby  keep  the 
ragged  population  of  Frascati  out  of  our  garden,  having 
enforced  the  stopping  up  gaps  in  the  hedges.  As  a 
characteristic  trait  of  this  nation,  I  must  mention  that 
when  we  were  deliberating  about  the  choice  of  a  porter, 
great  interest  was  made  by  people  resident  close  by,  who 
got  our  own  servants  on  their  side,  to  induce  us  to  choose  a 

*  Mrs.  Waddington  and  her  youngest  daughter  were  in  consider- 
able danger  at  this  crisis— being  surrounded  by  a  mob  in  a  French 
town  they  were  passing  through,  in  consequence  of  the  fleur-de-lis  on 
the  arms  of  their  carriage  leading  to  the  suspicion  that  some  of  the> 
family  of  Charles  X.  were  in  it. 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  343 


man,  represented  as  possessing  every  desirable  quality  and 
qualification,  who  is  in  the  awkward  predicament  of  not 
being  able  to  be  with  his  family  at  Frascati  except  by 
night  and  by  stealth,  from  having  some  time  ago  stabbed 
a  man  in  a  quarrel,  which  man  died  of  the  wound !  and 
the  murderer  of  course  has  reason  to  fear  that  the  ven- 
geance of  the  relatives  of  the  murdered  man  would  stimu- 
late the  reluctant  police  to  seize  him,  if  he  should  re- 
appear in  his  native  town  without  sufficient  protection, 
which  sufficient  protection  the  Italians  think  Charles  would 
be  doing  a  most  benevolent  action  in  affording  him !  As 
a  pendant  to  this  story,  our  present  porter  (who  really  as 
yet  has  never  murdered  anybody)  the  day  after  he  was 
installed,  asked  Charles  in  a  supplicating  manner  for  per- 
mission to  wear  'questa  piccola  anna.'  Charles  was  about 
to  examine  the  thing  he  produced  from  under  his  coat, 
when  he  cried  out,  '  Bada,  bada,  c'e  la  palla  dentro.'  It 
was  only  a  loaded  pistol,  which  had  he  entrapped  Charles 
into  authorising  him  to  wear,  he  would  most  probably  not 
have  borne  in  vain,  had  any  object  of  his  spite  come  near 
him." 

"16  Sept.y  1830. — Your  box  is  arrived,  and  its  greatest 
delight  is  the  books,  many  of  which  have  come  into  imme- 
diate use  for  the  children.  The  most  perfect  of  all  things 
is  '  the  Boy's  own  Book ' :  I  enjoy  the  clear-headed  de- 
scription of  the  games,  the  execution  of  the  vignettes,  and 
everything:  I  wonder  who  wrote  it.  Dame  Dumpling, 
Dame  Trot,  and  the  rest,  have  all  furnished  amusement 
of  all  sorts  to  all  sizes  and  descriptions  of  persons. 

"  To-day  Charles  is  gone  to  Rome,  to  return  to-morrow. 
After  he  drove  off,  we  set  out  on  a  walk,  my  sister-in-law 


314        LIFE   AN1>   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUSSES. 

on  an  ass,  Simon  and  myself,  with  all  the  children,  nurse, 
nnd  Angelina  on  foot.  Ae  we  meant  to  make  a  good 
circuit,  I  intended  to  have  Bent  back  the  little  girls  after 
they  had  accompanied  us  a  little  way,  but  they  walked 
with,  such  spirit,  and  were  so  delighted  at  making  a  part 
of  the  company,  that  Z  resolved  to  try  to  take  them  on, 
and  with  a  very  little  help,  each  of  them  being  carried 
alternately  by  the  servant,  they  accomplished  the  whole 
way,  Emilia  singing  for  joy,  and  Frances  running  and 
chattering,  and  my  Mary  doing  everything  that  was  sweet 
and  delightful ;  choosing  to  walk,  to  hold  her  Bister's 
hands,  then  to  he  carried  by  Henry,  then  calling  after 
each  of  the  party,  then  wondering  at  seeing  her  aunt  upon 
the  ass.  Heaven  grant  a  continuance  of  health  to  these 
precious  little  things,  that  I  may  not  bitterly  repent  leaving 
them  to  go  to  Naples  !  I  have  taken  myself  to  task  often 
and  often  as  to  the  motives  of  this  journey — for  mere 
pleasure,  I  doubt  whether  it  would  be  justifiable :  but  I 
look  upon  the  complete  change  of  scene,  of  thought  and 
occupations,  as  quite  necessary  for  Charles  after  the  un- 
remitting labour  he  has  had  here,  and  previous  to  entering 
upon  lie  life  of  interruptions,  labour,  and  various  excite- 
ments which  awaits  him  in  Borne.  Then — our  four  boys 
we  can  take,  they  are  all  old  enough  to  enjoy,  and  profit 
by  the  journey." 

"Some,  5  Oct.,  1830. — We  have  been  enjoying  our- 
eolvos  very  much  to-day,  going  in  the  delicious  October 
afternoon  to  the  Yilla  Borghese,  where  the  verdure  is  now 
more  beautiful  than  in  the  spring,  and  which  at  this 
season  is  every  day  full  of  gay  groups.  Yesterday  I  went 
on  foot  with  Simon  and  the  four  boys  to  the   Monte 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  345 


Testaceo,  where  we  saw  the  sun  set  gloriously :  I  took  my 
Frances  and  Emilia  with  me,  having  them  carried  by 
turns,  and  they  walked  nobly,  and  were  delighted  to 
belong  to  such  a  grown-up  parly.  We  left  our  dear  Yilla 
Piccolomini  on  Michaelmas-Day,  and  I  have  to  look  back 
upon  the  time  spent  at  Frascati  with  great  thankfulness  : 
we  had  the  enjoyment  of  much  leisure,  and  yet  of  much 
social  pleasure ;  and  altho'  Charles  laboured  so  much  for 
himself,  seldom,  if  ever,  has  he  been  able  at  the  same  time 
to  busy  himself  about  the  children  so  much  as  he  did  this 
summer,  by  means  of  the  morning  walks  regularly  taken 
before  breakfast  with  them  and  with  me.  The  beauty  of 
nature,  of  the  walks  and  views  about  Frascati,  strikes  me 
each  time  of  being  there  with  such  added  force,  that  I 
could  almost  suppose  I  had  been  before  insensible." 

"  Jschia,  15  Oct,  1830. — If  it  was  only  for  the  sake  of 
the  date,  I  must  make  the  beginning  of  a  letter  to  my 
dearest  Mother,  in  the  midst  of  a  state  of  enjoyment  which 
seems  at  the  time  a  dream,  and  will  probably  appear  so 
when  past.  0  that  I  could  by  words  give  an  idea  of  all 
that  I  have  drunk  in  during  the  last  seven  days !  It  is  a 
line  I  think  of  Sir  W.  Jones's — '  He  was  all  eye,  and  saw 
thro'  every  pore ! '  This  is  a  new  world — much  too 
luxurious,  too  intoxicating,  to  wish  or  even  to  consent  to 
live  in ; — but  to  gloat  over,  to  expatiate  in  for  a  time, — 
and  'then  back  to  busy  life  again/ — is  rapturous,  no 
common  word  will  do." 

*'  Naples,  24  Oct — Being  now  established  in  a  lodging, 
and  calling  myself  at  home,  I  feel  almost  as  if  I  could  write 
a  regular  letter,  and  yet  it  will  perhaps  at  last  be  nothing 
hut  a  bundle  of  unconnected  scraps.    Before  I  begin  at 


346        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUXSEN. 

the  beginning,  I  will  state  the  blessed  fact,  that  all  of  us 
are  well,  and  have  passed  through  the  manifold  risks  of 
so  much  journeying  by  land  and  water  unhurt,  and  that 
the  three  sweet  angels  left  at  home  are  also  well.    I  had 
a  letter  from  Simon  the  fourth  day  after  I  left  home, 
which  would  have  delighted  my  Mother — so  detailed  that 
it  was  a  picture  of  the  existence  of  those  darlings — the 
behaviour,  the  looks,  the  occupations,  the  words  of  each, 
all  characteristic,— even  the  words  of  my  Mary,   when 
seeking  the  whole  house  for  her  Mamma,  her  Papa,  and 
Giorgio,     Then  I  had  to  fast  for  twelve  days,  employed  on 
our  coast  and  island  tour,  and  on  returning  to  Naples  on 
the  evening  of  the  22nd  I  was  cheered  by  a  laconic 
assurance  in  a  letter  from  Bhebenitz  that  all  were  in  the 
most  thriving  state. 

"The  day  after  my  last  letter  from  Borne,  we  break- 
fasted at  Yelletri,  having  beforehand  run  to  the  Palazzo 
Lancellotti,  where  we  saw  the  sun  rise  from  behind  the 
splendid  mass  of  the  Yolscian  mountains  on  the  left,  while 
the  sea  became  visible  in  the  distance  on  the  right,  with 
the  beautiful  outline  of  the  Monte  Circello,  formerly  island 
of  Circe.  The  staircase  and  gallery  landing-places  of  the 
Palazzo  Lancellotti  I  think  the  finest  I  ever  saw.  From 
Velletri  we  flew  rather  than  drove  over  the  finest  road 
possible  thro'  the  Pontine  Marshes,  delighting  in  every 
mile  of  the  way,  and  wondering  what  can  cause  people  to 
call  them  tiresome.  They  are  enclosed  on  the  right  by  a 
range  of  mountains  (ornamented  with  picturesque  ancient 
towns)  such  as  the  eye  might  feed  on  for  ever  without 
fatigue :  and  whatever  luxuriant  vegetation,  expanses  of 
water  peopled  with  wild  birds,  and  the  effect  .of  an  inter- 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.       .  347 


minable  avenue  of  trees  within  which  the  road  passes,: 
can  do  to  obliterate  the  recollection  of  an  unwholesome 
flat,  is  done.  Terracina  struck  me  rather  less,  than'  I 
expected,  and  yet  it  is  most  picturesque :  on  the  other 
hand,  I  had  never  heard  enough  of  the  mountain-pass 
between  Fondi  and  Itri,  where  the  frill »  to  the  very  edge 
of  the  road  are  full  of  myrtle,  lentisea,  cefalia,  intermingled 
with  heath,  the  first  I  had  seen  since  England.  I  wish 
you  may  happen  to  know  the  two  shrubby  plants  of  which 
I  have  given  the  Italian  names — the  former,  between 
glossy  evergreen  leaves,  has  small  coral  berries  growing 
thick  round  the  stem  like  holly;  the  latter,  a  tough 
slender  stem  with  sea-green  spear-like  leaves,  has  at  the 
extremity  berries  of  cornelian,  heavy  enough  to  curve  it 
towards  the  ground.  How  many  vignettes  did  I  make  in 
idea  for  my  intended  letter  to  my  Mother  in  driving  along ! 
But  people  who  draw,  and  who  keep  a  journal  in  travel- 
ling, cannot  be  such  as  have  to  pack  and  unpack,  take 
care  of  and  provide  for,  a  husband  and  four  children. 
But  my  own  Mother,  I  do  not  know  what  travellers  are 
made  of,  who  do  not  talk  of  Mola  di  Gaeta.  I  doubt 
whether  anything  in  the  world  can  exceed  the  view  from 
the  inn  called  Yilla  di  Cicerone.  We  arrived  there  when 
the  sun  was  setting,  and  saw  it  rise  next  morning  over 
the  Gulf  of  Gaieta,  reddening  the  smoky  column  of  the- 
far-distant  Vesuvius.  From  thence  every  bit  of  the  way 
is  beautiful,  except  from  Capua  to  Naples,  where  the 
uninterrupted  succession  of  tall  abeles,  connected  by 
garlands  of  vines,  concealing  the  soil  and  the  distant 
prospect,  is  as  tiresome  as  in  Lombardy.  Professor 
Gerhard  drove  to  meet  us  the  first  stage,  and  .we.  entered 


348        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Naples  by  the  splendid  new  road  made  by  Murat,  on 
Saturday  the  9th.  On  Sunday,  after  church,  we  went  in 
a  boat,  the  thing  I  entreated  to  do  first  of  all,  along  the 
shore  to  Posilipo.  Monday  we  resolved  to  set  off  on  the 
island  tour  with  Count  Platen,*  and  drove  off  to  Pozzuoli : 
here  the  inn  was  full,  but  on  inquiry  we  found  a 
private  house,  which  pleased  us  much  better,  though  there 
was  no  pretension  to  refinement  of  accommodation.  While 
our  dinner  was  getting  ready  (which  consisted,  besides 
soup  and  fresh  fish,  of  two  such  haycocks  of  maccaroni 
that  we  could  have  played  at  hide  and  seek  under  them) 
we  drove  past  the  Lake  Avernus,  within  sight  of  the 
ancient  Cumse.  Next  morning  our  eyes  opened  on  the 
Gulf  of  Baise ! 

'  Bear  me,  some  god,  to  BaiaVs  gentle  seats, 
Or  bury  me  in  Umbria's  green  retreats ! ' 

are  two  sufficiently  prosaic  lines  of  Addison's,  which  have 
chimed  in  my  ears  some  twenty  or  five  and  twonty  years 
ago,  and  now  I  know  what  moved  the  mild-spirited  Addi- 
son to  that  vehement  ejaculation.  We  embarked  in  a 
large  boat,  and  coasted  along,  landing  at  all  the  spots 
where  antiquities  were  to  be  seen :  in  the  first  place  we 
went  on  asses  by  the  side  of  the  Lucrine  lake  to  the 
Avernus,  and  there  saw  the  Cave  of  the  Sybil,  as  it  is 

*  Count  Platen  Hallermiind,  the  fertile  lyric  and  dramatic  writer, 
remarkable  for  his  warm  efforts  in  behalf  of  the  liberation  of  the 
Poles.  Ho  was  a  celebrated  but  not  a  popular  poet,  and  he  died, 
forlorn  and  poor,  at  Syracuse,  in  1835.  Many  instances  are  remem- 
bered of  his  wonderful  insight  into  national  character.  Of  these  per- 
haps none  were  more  remarkable  than  his  remark  to  Bunsen— "Id 
Germany  we  say, « he  is  a  priest,  he  is  a  judge/  in  Italy  they  say,  '/*  il 
preto,/a  il  giudiee.' " 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  349 


called— a  subterranean  passage  probably  for  communica- 
tion the  nearest  way  between  the  ancient  Cumso  and  Misenee. 
Haying  crossed  at  last  the  promontory  of  Misense  at  Bacoli 
while  we  sent  the  boat  round,  we  embarked  on  the  other 
side,  and  pushed  off  from  the  main  land  to  Procida,  walked 
across  the  island,  and  again  embarked  for  Ischia,  where 
we  arrived  at  sunset,  and  found  most  comfortable  quarters 
in  the  Sentinella,  an  inn  formerly  a  villa,  delightfully  situ- 
ated.   At  Ischia  we  remained  three  days,  one  day  longer 
than  we  had  intended,  on  account  of  the  sea  being  too 
rough  for  our  more  considerable  voyage  to  Capri.    But  we 
enjoyed  every  hour  spent  in  Ischia,  and  could  with  pleasure 
have  stayed  longer;   we  made  the  entire  circuit  of  the 
island,  and  ascended  the  Epomeo.     We  were  seven  hours 
on  the  sea  from  Ischia  to  Capri,  however  all  was  enjoy- 
able, and  half  seas  over,  I  obliged  Charles  to  hear,  and  be 
delighted  with  '  He  who  has  bent  him  o'er  the  dead : '  in 
the  sight  of  such  shores  and  such  a  sea,  one  has  need  of 
the  words  of  inspiration,  one's  own  words  will  no  longer 
do  for  one's  feelings.    That  passage  is  a  description,  and 
the  only  description,  of  Magna  Grsecia,  as  well  as  of  real 
Greece— it  is  not  Italian.    I  do  not  despise  nor  reject,  for 
I  love  what  is  Italian,  but  what  is  Grecian  is  another 
thing :  and  no  enumeration  of  objects,  no  geometrical  ele- 
vation of  rocks  and  hills,  can  communicate  even  a  shadow 
of  the  reality,  they  give  ideas  of  other  things.     Capri  I 
think  yet  more  beautiful  than  Ischia,  and  in  Capri  I  felt 
at  home,  whereas  the  volcanic  mass  of  Ischia  conveyed  in 
every  part  the  impression  of  a  soil  and  nature  foreign  and 
heterogene.     From  Capri  the  second  day  we  rowed  to 
8orrento,  floating  over  the  smooth  sea,  close  in  sight  of  a 


.350        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

coast  diversified  with  every  species  of  beauty.  At  Sorrento 
we  slept  and  got  away  next  morning  as  soon  as  we  could, 
for  it  was  the  only  place  on  our  tour  that  we  did  not  like. 
Mr.  W.  described  it  to  me  literally — '  the  most  beautiful 
prison  in  the  world,  but  I  don't  like  to  be  imprisoned.' 
We  rowed  to  Castellamare  and  drove  thence  to  Salerno 
through  the  valley  of  La  Cava — indescribably  beautiful ; 
and  were  utterly  astonished,  after  all  that  we  had  latterly 
seen,  with  the  view  that  opened  upon  us  on  descending 
from  Yietri  towards  Salerno.  There  we  inhabited  an  inn 
which  had  been  a  bastion  of  a  fortification,  and  we  issued 
from  each  of  our  rooms  upon  a  broad  terrace,  looking  on 
the  sea,  over  which,  three  mornings  running,  I  saw  the 
morning  star,  the  break  of  day  behind  the  coast  of 
Peostum,  the  first  rays  of  the  sun  gleaming  on  the  cliffs 
on  the  right  hand,  stretching  from  Yietri  towards  Amain, 
by  the  clearest  and  most  tranquil  atmosphere.  The  situa- 
tion of  Amalfi,  my  own  Mother,  and  the  valley  behind  it, 
is  striking  beyond  description.  At  Psestum  also  all  expec- 
tation was  exceeded  by  the  temple  of  Neptune :  the  deso- 
lation is  frightful,  and  the  asphodel,  ever  found  'within 
the  place  of  thousand  tombs,'  grows  all  over  Peestum.  We 
saw  Pompeii  on  the  way  to  Naples.  The  impression  which 
it  makes  must  always  be  peculiar  to  itself,  and  I  was  not 
insensible  to  the  effect  of  places  of  abode  as  fresh  as  if 
inhabited  yesterday,  the  inhabitants  of  which  have  yet 
been  for  1700  years  mouldered  into  dust:  but  Pompeii  is 
the  thing  I  least  of  all  enjoy,  or  rather  do  not  enjoy  it  at 
all .  it  is  so  petite  in  overy  sense  of  the  word,  so  completely 
dan*  U  sbyU  de  boudoir. 

/'The  rooms  which  Count  Pourtales  has  taken  for  us 


i 

i 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  351 


in  Naples  are  beautiful,  with  a  range  of  windows  look- 
ing on  the  sea.  At  the  Palace  of  Portici,  I  was  de- 
lighted with  a  whole  grove  of  Georginas.*  I  hope  my 
Mother  knows  the  flower,  brought  by  Humboldt  origin- 
ally from  the  Brazils;  it  grows  very  tall  in  a  bush, 
and  the  flowers  are  every  variety  of  the  colour  of  the 
ranunculus,  with  more  outline  and  light  and  shade.  The 
bronze  statues  in  the  Museum  are  inconceivable !  With  all 
marble  remains  of  antiquity,  one  puzzles  to  make  out  what 
is  ancient  and  what  has  been  injured  by  restoration :  but 
the  bronzes  are  perfect  throughout,  fresh  and  uninjured. 
There  would  be  no  end  to  enumerating  objects  of  delight, 
but  a  bust  of  Julius  Csesar,  of  consummate  workmanship 
and  undoubted  authenticity,  is  an  object  to  feast  upon  in 
recollection,  as  communicating  a  fund  of  new  ideas.  Even 
the  marble  cannot  quite  deaden  'that  eye  whose  bend 
doth  awe  the  world ; '  while  the  fine  chiselling  about  the 
mouth  marks  it  irresistible  in  words  and  expression.  The 
people  of  Naples  are  most  hideous  and  uncivilised,  so  that 
the  Romans  appear  princes  on  recollection :  but  I  delight 
in  what  I  have  seen  of  the  country-people  and  the  island- 
ers. At  Procida  and  Ischia  I  have  again  seen  feminine 
creatures  in  petticoats,  with  soft  voices,  speaking  Italian 
with  a  melodious  cadence,  and  looking  upon  you  with  a 
melting  gaze,  instead  of  the  brazen  stare  of  Borne." 

"Naples,  6  Nov.,  1830. — Although  Count  Pourtales  was 
a  new  acquaintance,  his  sudden  illness  and  imminent 
death  touch  us  very  nearly,  and  turn  to  serious  sadness 
the  dream  of  enjoyment  and  idleness  in  which  we  have 
passed  the  last  five  weeks.    We  found  him  here  in  the 

.     .  •  Dahlias.  j 


352        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS  BUN  SEN. 

prime  of  life  and  possessed  of  everything  that  youth  and 
health  and  friends  and  fortune  can  give  to  make  life 
desirable.  On  the  25th  he  was  with  us  in  the  palace  and 
gardens  of  Portici,  and  we  little  thought  that  the  hand  of 
death  was  so  soon  to  touch  one  of  the  party,  and  still  less 
that  the  lot  was  to  fall  upon  him.  He  is  the  fourth 
person  amongst  those  whom  we  may  call  our  associates 
who  have  been  carried  off  by  sudden  illness  within  the 
last  three  months,  as  if  we  were  to  be  allowed  every 
possible  warning,  without  being  afflicted  by  actual  dis- 
tress ! " 

"Home,  16  Nov. — Count  Fourtales breathed  his  last  on 
Wednesday  the  10th,  and  on  Thursday,  11th,  Charles  saw 
him  buried.     On  Friday  at  four  o'clock  in  the  morning  we 
left  Naples.    We  saw  Caserta  and  the  amphitheatre  at 
Capua,  and  before  seven  on  Saturday  evening  had  mounted 
our  own  Capitol,   and  found  our  darlings  grown,  and 
fattened,  and  well,  and  merry!     How  is  it  possible  to 
be  thankful  enough!    Mary  came  to  me  at  once,  but 
looked  at  me  with  fixed  eyes,  as  if  trying  to  recall  an 
image  of  the  past,  and  did  not  for  the  first  five  minutes 
smile  or  rejoice — at  the  end  of  that  time  however  all  was 
clear  to  her,  and  she  embraced  me,  and  clung  round  me, 
and  then  sate  on  my  arm  gazing  at  me  with  a  look  of 
sweetness  never  to  be  forgotten.    Her  father  in  his  travel- 
ling cap  frightened  her,  but  her  mustering  her  brothers  is 
not  to  be  described : — George,  ever  her  great  delight,  was 
the  first  that  she  took  hold  of  by  the  neck,  and  kissed, 
and  called  by  his  name,  which,  as  the  easiest  of  pronun- 
ciation, she  then  applied  to  each  of  the  other  brothers, 
stroking  and  kissing  each  at  the  same  time,  but  when 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  353 


corrected  she  took  all  possible  pains  to  repeat  the  right 
names :  then  gazed  at  each  brother,  saying  '  Bello ! ' — and 
when  she  lost  sight  of  any  one  of  the  four,  she  would 
hunt  about,  and  call  for  whichever  was  missing,  as  if  she 
was  afraid  of  losing  them  again.  My  Frances  was  most 
affectionate,  and  in  different  ways  she  and  Emilia  have 
not  known  what  to  do  to  show  their  delight,  ever  since  I 
came  back. 

"  I  must  not  forget  to  tell  my  Mother  that  our  expedi- 
tion up  Vesuvius  turned  out  very  well ;  we  had  the  finest 
weather,  and  the  volcano  in  great  activity :  it  is  an  incon- 
ceivably magnificent  spectacle,  but  which  could  not  so  far 
absorb  me  as  to  prevent  my  often  turning  my  back  upon  it, 
to  gaze  upon  the  exquisite  outline  of  coast  to  be  traced  far 
below — the  three  successive  bays,  from  the  promontory  of 
Gaieta  to  the  extremity  of  the  promontory  of  Sorrento, 
called  Capo  Minerva ;  and  the  unequalled  islands  of  Ischia 
and  Capri,  so  distinct  tho'  so  diminished.  The  day  at 
Pompeii  was  very  enjoyable.  After  witnessing  an  exca- 
vation, we  dined  with  Professor  Zahn,  who  has  been  for  a 
time  resident  there  to  make  drawings  for  the  museum  at 
Berlin :  he  caused  the  custode-population  of  Pompeii  to 
assemble  and  dance  the  Tarantella  for  our  amusement 
after  dinner,  on  a  terrace  with  a  view  of  Vesuvius  and  the 
sea,  and  one  of  the  sub-directors  of  the  excavations  sang 
buffo  songs  to  our  great  delight.  At  the  excavation  before 
dinner,  Sir  William  Gell  was  present.  Pompeii  itself  will 
not  please  me,  I  cannot  help  my  vulgarity,  but  I  must 
think  of  calf-sheds  and  cow-houses  and  hen-roosts,  and 
everything  that  is  not  refined,  when  I  see  such  narrow 
spaces,  let  their  elegance  of  decoration  be  what  it  will! 

VOL.  I.  A  A 


354        LIFE   AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BTJS5EH. 

What  is  really  striking  is  the  street  of  tombs.  We  con- 
trived to  spend  another  day  between  Pozzuoli,  Cumte,  Bai», 
and  Misenco,  to  renew  the  most  delightful  images  of  the 
whole  journey.  Now,  my  own  Mother,  I  wish  I  may  have 
forgotten  nothing  essential  to  be  told — thousands  of  things 
I  have  got  to  say,  but  between  children,  visitors,  household 
affairs,  and  settlings,  have  not  a  moment  left  for  recollec- 
tion, and  as  the  children's  dinner  is  coming,  I  will  close 
my  letter.  0  my  Mother !  how  dreadful  is  the  state  of  the 
world.  We  all  cry  '  Peace !  peace  ! '  and  there  is  no  peace 
to  bo  hoped  for, 

"Pray  tell  Neukomm  that  we  have  Felix  Mendelssohn 
here,  and  that  I  have  already  heard  him  play  a  Fantasia 
of  Beethoven,  and  the  Preludi  of  Sebastian  Bach,  and  he 
will  then  tell  you  what  enjoyment  that  is.  Felix  Mendels- 
sohn's adagio-touch  is  the  only  thing  I  ever  heard  like 
Neukomm's." 

Id  December  the  Bunsens  again  witnessed  a  papal 
funeral,  for  Pope  Pius  VIII.  expired  on  the  first  of 
that  month,  after  a  reign  of  little  more  than  a  year  and 
a  half. 

Madame  Buff  sen  to  her  Mother. 

"  Some,  26  Dtc.,  1830. — I  have  not  for  many  years  felt 
so  well  and  strong  as  since  the  thorough  refreshment  of 
our  delightful  journey  to  Naphw ;  but  lost  Christmas  my 
Mother  was  with  us,  and  so  many  others  were  also  want- 
ing, that  Christmas  Eve  would  have  been  melancholy  from 
tectdleotlon,  had  not  the  three  eldest  boys  imagined,  con- 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  355 


trived,  and  arranged  something  for  the  pleasure  of  their 
sisters,  which  amused  everybody,  and  pleased  me  I  believe 
most  of  all,  from  the  thought  and  its  execution.  I  believe 
the  separation  occasioned  by  the  journey  to  Naples  had  its 
beneficial  effects,  in  proving  to  the  boys  that  they  really 
had  pleasure  to  gain  by  the  presence  of  their  sisters,  for  I 
had  observed  ever  since  I  came  home  that  they  were 
caressed  and  played  with,  instead  of  being  teased,  as  was 
too  often  the  case  formerly :  and  for  the  last  three  weeks  I 
had  seen  the  boys  at  work  at  all  sorts  of  things  at  all  odd 
times,  wanting  paste  every  two  or  three  days,  and  scatter- 
ing snippings  of  old  visiting  cards  about  all  my  tables,  to 
say  nothing  of  using  all  my  scissors,  &c. ;  and  when  I 
asked  what  it  was  all  about,  I  was  told  it  was  for  their 
sisters  at  Christmas,  but  a  great  mystery  was  made,  and 
George  was  not  let  into  the  room  behind  the  nursery  for 
some  days.  At  last,  after  my  arrangements  had  been  seen 
and  admired,  and  they  had  received  their  gifts,  we  all  went 
in  procession  to  see  their  devices,  and  were  really  surprised 
at  the  good  effect  they  produced.  They  had  converted  my 
dearest  Mother's  fire-screen  into  a  tree,  by  dint  of  green 
twigs  and  garlands,  and  connected  it  with  a  real  tree  on 
each  side,  formed  of  a  branch  of  bay  planted  in  a  garden- 
pot,  by  f  estoons  of  green  tied  together ;  the  whole  stuck 
full  of  wax  tapers,  a  picture  in  the  midst  of  the  screen, 
and  in  front  of  the  screen  a  little  table  with  gifts  for  their 
sisters  and  for  the  maids,  made  or  bought  by  themselves, 
out  of  their  own  pittanco.  They  afterwards  sang  their 
nymn,  had  their  tea  and  cake,  and  went  to  bed,  but  as 
Henry  well  observed,  '  Last  year  we  were  so  many  and 
noisy ! — this  time  we  could  make  no  noise.' 


356        LIFE   AKD   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

_.  j.      _       i  i  — *» 

"  One  of  our  new  acquaintance  this  winter  is  Madame 
de  Stael,*  the  widow  of  Auguste,  your  Madame  de  StaeTs 
only  son.  She  is  a  very  charming  person,  mild  and  in- 
telligent, but  deeply  afflicted,  having  lost  her  only  child 
the  year  after  she  lost  her  husband.  She  is,  accord- 
ing to  the  laws  of  Geneva,  the  heir  of  that  child;  and 
possesses  Coppet,  but  her  riches  can  give  her  little  comfort. 
Her  delight  is  my  Mary,  and  when  she  comes  here,  she 
can  scarcely  take  her  eyes  from  her :  she  fancies  her  like 
her  own  child." 

"Home,  24  Jan.,  1831. — My  own  Mother,  the  newspaper 
will  have  told  you  of  the  death  of  Mr.  Niebuhr !  and  you 
will  in  part  have  imagined  the  shock  it  has  been  to  both 
Charles  and  myself;  but  quite  the  degree  of  shock  you 
cannot  have  imagined.  Charles's  feelings  have  been  of 
the  same  kind,  but  even  keener  than  when  he  lost  his 
father,  for  the  relation  of  the  heart  was  the  same,  and  with 
respect  to  Mr.  Niebuhr  existed  in  full  force  and  vigour, 
whereas  from  the  decays  of  age,  his  father  had  long  been 
dead  to  him  before  he  expired.  And  then,  the  loss  of 
Niebuhr  was  so  unforeseen !  he  was  in  the  best  years  of  a 
man's  life,  not  more  than  fifty-five,  his  health  had  strength- 
ened of  late  years,  and  tho'  he  was  often  ailing,  he  had 
no  complaint  to  threaten  life.  His  illness  lasted  only 
eight  days :  from  the  third  day,  he  asserted  that  he  should 
die,  but  till  after  the  fifth,  no  other  person  saw  cause  to 
apprehend  danger.  A  violent  inflammation  of  the  throat 
was  the  last  death-stroke,  but  it  was  without  a  struggle,  or 
apparent  pain,  that  he  expired  in  the  night  between  the 

*  Madame  de  Stael,  often  mentioned  in  these  volumes,  died  at- 
Geneva  in  1876. 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  357 


1st  and  2nd  of  January.  His  mind  was  clear  to  the  last. 
Oh !  what  I  would  give  to  know  that  the  highest  grace  had 
been  granted  to  him  which  I  think  can  be  granted  to  a 
parent  on  the  verge  of  the  grave — that  of  yielding  up  a  set 
of  unprovided  children  into  the  hands  of  the  common 
Parent,  satisfied  that  God  is  not  bound  to  any  given  means 
for  securing  their  temporal  and  eternal  interests,  and  that 
whether  he  himself  had  lived  or  died,  their  welfare  must 
equally  have  been  the  gift  of  Providence !  Mr.  Brandis  in 
his  kindness  wrote  many  and  full  particulars,  but  did  not 
mention  anything  said  by  him  in  the  prospect  of  death. 
But  I  will  comfort  myself  with  the  belief  that  the  power  of 
composure  and  resignation — the  most  at  variance  with  his 
anxious  and  agitated  nature — may  have  been  communi- 
cated in  his  last  moments  by  that  Voice  which  rebuked  the 
winds  and  bid  the  sea  be  still.  Oh!  my  own  Mother! 
fliiTilr  of  Mrs.  Niebuhr !  I  cannot  even  think  of  her  yet 
without  tears :  and  yet  I  will  answer  for  her  bearing  her 
affliction  as  she  ought,  that  is  to  say,  without  complaint  or 
murmur.  I  answered  for  the  manner  in  which  she  would 
bear  the  burning  of  her  house,*  and  every  account  of  her 
corroborated  my  supposition ;  she  has  ever  by  principle 
and  habit  accepted  what  came  from  the  hand  of  God,  with- 
out pitying  herself.  But  how  is  she  now  tried !  her  all  is 
taken  away — the  object  of  every  thought  and  action,  of 
every  feeling,  of  every  exertion!  for  even  her  children 

*  Niebuhr' 8  new  house  at  Bonn,  in  the  arrangement  of  which  he 
had  taken  great  pleasure,  had  been  completely  destroyed  by  fire  on 
the  night  of  the  6th  of  February,  1830 :  but  his  books  were  for 
the  most  part  saved  by  being  thrown  out  into  the  snow  from  the 
windows  of  the  second  story,  and  the  MS.  of  the  2nd  volume  of  his 
"  History  of  Rome  '*  was  found  amongst  them. 


K58        LIFE   AXD   LETTERS   OF   BABONESS    JiCSSBS. 

were  so  united  with  him  in  her  affections  and  occupations, 
that  their  existence  will  he  at  first  hut  aggravation  oi 
misery  to  her.  She  was  ill  when  he  was  taken  ill,  and  not 
having  left  him  day  or  night  for  six  days,  was  then  com- 
pelled to  take  to  her  hed,  and  when  he  expired,  her  fever 
was  so  high  that  she  was  considered  in  great  danger! 
However,  when  Mr.  Erandis's  letter  was  sent,  on  the  4th 
January,  she  was  recovering. 

"  I  know  not  how  to  be  thankful  enough  to  Mr.  Brandis 
for  having  written  so  immediately,  for  the  death  of  Mr. 
Niehuhr  was  in  the  newspaper  of  the  same  post  by  which. 
his  letter  came,  and  had  Charles  seen  that,  without  having 
a  letter  of  particulars  and  certainty,  I  think  he  would  have 
been  half  distracted.  Charles  had  a  long  letter  from  Mr. 
Niebuhr  not  three  weeks  ago,. very  remarkable  in  many 
respects :  he  was  quite  wretched  at  the  state  of  the  world, 
and  the  prospect  of  the  breaking  up  of  governments  and  of 
society,  without  the  chance  of  a  better  order  of  things 
coming  out  of  the  anticipated  chaos.  Time  must  prove 
whether  his  anticipations,  or  those  of  more  sanguine  poli- 
ticians are  just ;  but  in  the  meantime  we  are  not  authorised 
to  condemn  as  absurd  the  apprehensions  of  a  person,  the 
study  of  whoso  life  had  been  history  and  politics,  and  who 
therefore  could  see  events  in  their  causes  more  than  ordin- 
ary mortals.  The  third  volume  of  Mr.  Niebuhr's  Boman 
History  he  had  shortly  before  prepared  for  the  press,  whither 
he  had  sent  it  with  a  short  introduction  relative  to  passing 
i  vents,  written  with  a  freedom  that  had  startled  the  few 
I  >eople  whose  comments  have  as  yet  reached  us.  One  of 
the  expressions  was  quoted  in  a  letter  to  Charles  from  the 
j-ubUsher  of  his  hymns — '  The  foolhardiness  of  the  French 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  359 


Court  has  broken  the  talisman  which  held  in  thrall  the 
demon  of  the  Revolution. ' 

"  Mr.  Brandis's  letter  contained  besides  details  of  his 
own  afflictions.  Last  summer,  a  fire  broke  out  in  the 
house  of  his  only  and  most  beloved  sister,  and  consumed 
in  a  few  hours  the  whole  abode,  and  a  manufactory,  which 
was  her  husband's  sole  property  and  dependence,  and  that 
husband,  and  her  eldest  son  of  seventeen,  perished  in  the 
flames!  She  has  six  other  children,  and  the  eldest 
daughter  sickly!  My  Mother,  what  afflictions  fall  upon 
other  people !  Poor  Mr.  Brandis  received  the  intelligence 
when  about  to  go  and  recruit  his  debilitated  body  at  Carls- 
bad, after  having  endured  not  only  fatigue  from  long 
exertion,  but  affliction  from  the  loss  of  his  second  boy. 
He  gave  up  the  water-drinking  at  once  to  go  to  his  sister, 
and  found  that,  before  he  arrived,  a  subscription  had 
already  been  made  by  the  inhabitants  of  Kiel  in  Holstein, 
where  she  resided,  to  form  a  fund  for  her  and  her  children's 
support.  He  however  nobly  declined  this  generous  proof  of 
the  regard  in  which  she  was  held,  saying  that  he,  with  his 
father's  assistance,  engaged  to  provide  for  her.  He  then 
went  on  to  Copenhagen  to  arrange  with  his  father.  What 
proportion  the  father  gives  he  does  not  tell,  but  he  men- 
tions that  his  wife  having  in  his  absence  made  a  contriv- 
ance to  do  without  half  of  their  house,  and  let  the  other 
half  to  a  friend,  they  would  be  enabled  by  the  rest  to 
make  good  the  obligations  he  had  entered  towards  his 
sister. 

"  25  Jan. — And  yesterday's  post  brought  the  news  that 
Mrs.  Niebuhr  was  released  from  her  sufferings  just  one 
week  after  the  death  of  her  husband !    The  letter  did  not 


I 


dOU         LIFE    AND   LETTERS  OF    BARONESS   BUKSEX. 

come  to  as,  and  my  sister-in-law  concealed  the  intelligence 
till  this  morning,  that  we  might  not  have  to  think  of  it 
thro'  the  night.  Nothing  could  be  less  a  surprise.  I  have 
never  felt  it  possible  that  she  could  long  survive.  But 
think  of  those  children  !  the  eldest  fourteen,  the  youngest 
nine  years  old,  all  of  an  age  to  know  what  they  have  lost, 
bred  up  with  such  extreme  tenderness,  with  only  too  much 
indulgence,  shut  up  from  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  now  at 
once  to  he  cut  off  from  the  whole  of  their  past  life ;  to 
come  into  the  hands  of  persons  to  them  unknown,  even 
tho*  kind  friends  of  their  parents'  The  report  con- 
veyed by  the  letter  from  Bonn  was  that  they  were  to  go 
immediately  to  Kiel,  to  the  sister-in-law  of  their  father, 
and  guardian-aunt  of  their  mother,  Madame  Header,  a 
very  superior  and  excellent  woman ;  and  I  hope  the  plan 
would  soon  be  executed,  for  to  remain  in  the  house  of 
death  and  desolation  might  produce  a  terrible  effect  upon 
them.  It  was  the  house  of  which  greater  part  had  been 
burnt  in  February,  and  which  had  been  built  up  in  the 
summer,  and  in  which  they  had  settled  themselves  again 
since  September!  Charles  and  I  wrote  to  Mrs.  Niebuhr 
last  week ;  I  had  a  feeling  that  she  would  not  he  able  to 
read  the  letters.* 

"  Last  week  we  passed  several  fine  afternoons  in  seeing 
sights,  Charles  feeling  the  need  of  something  to  divert 
his  thoughts  from  the  subject  to  which  they  ever  revert. 
We  went  witli  the  four  boys  to  the  top  of  St.  Peter's,  and 
even  into  the  ball,  one  day,  and  another  to  the  Galleria 
ISorghese.     My  own  Mother,    I  will  conclude.     Do  not 

*  Niebuhr  .in  J  his  wife  rest  together  in  the  samo  cemetery  at  Bonn, 
in  nhkh  the  Bmlbo-ub  «Jw  now  repose. 


ROMAN    SUNSHINE.  361 


think  me  melancholy,  but  I  cannot  help  being  sad.  0 
what  things  are  passing  in  families  and  nations,  and  we 
are  spared ! " 

"10  March,  1831. — We  are  all  recovering,  my  own 
Mother!  (after  an  attack  of  scarlet-fever)  and  I  have 
driven  out  to-day  in  the  most  delicious  weather,  and  it  is 
not  to  be  described  bow  beautiful  everything  was — the 
abundance  of  spring  blossoms,  the  brilliancy  of  sun  and 
sky. 

"I  am  delighted,  but  not  surprised,  at  the  manner  in  which 
Neukomm  has  attracted  you  (though  people  would  laugh 
if  I  was  to  speak  of  attraction  as  belonging  to  Neukomm). 
He  is  a  most  extraordinary  person,  possessing  a  few  more 
senses  and  powers  of  perception  than  anybody  else,  and 
employing  them  with  consummate  skill  to  give  pleasure, 
and  avoid  giving  pain,  to  those  persons  whom  he  likes ; 
and  even  those  whom  he  dislikes  (and  he  can  take  in  utter 
aversion)  he  never  offends.  No  cat  walking  and  winding 
between  wine-glasses  without  touching  or  causing  to  vibrate 
ever  exceeded  him  in  the  talent  of  going  his  own  way  amongst 
all  sorts  of  clashing  characters,  without  dislodging  anyone, 
or  discomposing  the  frame  of  society.  He  is  a  person 
whom  when  once  you  know,  it  is  impossible  only  to  like, 
you  are  compelled  to  have  an  affection  towards  him,  to  feel, 
not  a  common-place  wish  to  see  him  again,  but  a  want  of 
his  society,  a  consciousness  that  what  he  was  to  you, 
nobody  else  can  exactly  be,  that  his  place  is  only  to  be 
filled  by  himself.  I  should  not  have  used  these  expres- 
sions to  my  Mother  before  she  knew  Neukomm,  as  I  per- 
ceive she  does  now  know  him,  otherwise  they  would  seem 
too  paradoxical,  now  I  am  sure  she  will  enter  into  them. 


362        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

His  affectionate  disposition,  his  power  of  strong  attach- 
ment, stand  in  contrast  with  a  power  of  calculation  that 
never  was  exceeded:  never,  I  suppose,  did  he  do  any- 
thing but  what  he  intended,  and  never  was  he  taken  by 
surprise.  To  enumerate  the  apparent  contradictions  in 
him  would  be  endless  :  all  that  is  most  exquisite  in  art  or 
nature  is  matter  of  his  chief  enjoyment ;  and  the  female 
character,  and  the  character  of  children — the  flower  and 
quintessence  of  creation — are  his  especial  delight  and 
study,  while  for  the  Creator  he  can  find  no  place  in  crea- 
tion !  This  is  a  fearful  fact,  my  own  Mother,  only  ascer- 
tained after  multiplied  opportunities  of  nice  observation ; 
for  Neukomm  scrupulously  avoids  speaking  out  as  a  general 
rule,  but  more  particularly  uttering  anything  to  shock  his 
friend's  opinions.  He  is  a  deeply  unhappy  person ;  the 
keen  susceptibility  of  his  feelings  is  misery  to  him,  for  no 
wound  that  his  heart  receives  can  ever  heal — the  arrows 
of  death,  the  deaths  of  his  friends,  are  ever  rankling 
there,  and  reminding  him  of  that  termination  of  his 
own  existence,  of  which  he  will  not  think.  I  should  be 
interested  inexpressibly  to  know  his  history — I  never  met 
with  anybody  that  did :  and  he  never  tells  anything  himself 
but  dotted  facts  here  and  there  without  connection.  It  is 
my  belief  that  a  fund  of  religious  conviction  in  the  hearts 
of  his  friends,  forms  to  him,  unknown  to  himself,  an 
additional  attraction.  One  evening,  when  he  was  going 
away  late,  having  worked  himself  into  deep  melancholy 
with  music,  he  said  (I  forget  in  answer  to  what)  in  the 
words  of  Hamlet — '  When  we  have  shaken  off  this  mortal 
coil,  what  dreams  may  come?9  &c.  in  the  manner  of  a 
question. — Charles  answered,    '  Then,   I  think,  we  shall 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  363 

awake  from  all  dreams.'  But  he  did  not  assent.  I  could 
fill  pages  in  commenting  on  this  most  singular  of  all  human 
compositions,  but  I  must  make  haste  from  this  subject. 

"I  hope  and  trust,  my  own  Mother,  that  you  never 
believe  a  word  of  newspaper  or  private  accounts  of  dis- 
turbances in  Home.  Here  we  have  none,  but  the  stories 
that  are  every  day  fabricated,  and  written  from  Borne,  are 
beyond  all  belief.  A  sentinel  in  the  Campo  Vaccino  went 
to  sleep  over  his  musket,  which  went  off  and  shot  him 
dead ;  and  a  poor  dog  was  shot  in  the  dark  for  not  having 
answered  to  the  cry  of  '  Chi  viva ' — but  this  is  the  only 
blood  that  has  been  shed.  To  be  sure  the  Romans  have 
almost  died  of  fright  to  hear  that  some  insurgents  were 
advancing  on  Civita  Castellana,  but  then  the  Grand  Army 
of  the  Pope,  consisting  of  one  thousand  men  in  uniform 
and  five  hundred  ragamuffins  (who  being  nearly  in  huff, 
should  be  denominated  the  Buffi),  have  frightened  them 
off. 

"  I  am  enjoying  Major  Napier's  '  War  in  the  Penin- 
sula,' it  is  indescribably  interesting;  but  what  a  fearful 
picture  of  a  demoralised  nation  do  the  Spaniards  present ! 
What  self-deception,  faithlessness  to  themselves,  and 
treachery  to  others !  Wherever  exclusive  and  u&ra-Catholi- 
ciam  has  robbed  a  nation  of  the  right  use  of  its  moral 
faculties  in  the  most  material  point,  the  moral  and  intellec- 
tual sense  becomes  blighted  and  inefficient." 

In  September,  1831,  as  will  be  seen  from  the  letters 
which  follow,  Bunsen,  on  the  urgent  advice  of  his  friend 
Herr  von  Tippelskirch,  suddenly  determined  to  relieve 
his  wife,  who  had  latterly  spoken  of  her  pecuniary  trials 


364        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEK. 

as  "  only  "a  feather  in  her  burden,"  from  the  twofold 
domestic  incubus  which  had  weighed  upon  her  for  bo 
many  years.  "  I  had  once  or  twice  said  to  Charles," 
she  wrote  to  her  Mother  afterwards,  "my  thoughts 
start  back  from  the  subject  of  our  life  this  winter :  all 
I  know  is  that  help  always  comes,  when  help  is  indis- 
pensable. He  never  could  make  any  answer,  his  dis-  I 
tress  was  equal  to  mine."  i 

Yet  the  parting  with  Christiana  was  affectionate  on 
both  sides,  and  many  friendly  meetings  afterwards  took 
place.  "  I  could  not  write  before  on  the  subject  of  my 
sister-in-law,"  wrote  Madame  Bunsen  when  she  was  ^ 
gone.  "She  had  not  chosen  for  months  to  speak  to 
me,  drove  me  from  her  room  when  I  attempted  to  visit 
her,  and  abused  me  and  her  brother  to  every  one  she 
saw.  Tet  we  parted  on  the  most  affectionate  terms, 
and  about  me  she  has  cast  her  spell." 

Bunsen  to  his  Wife  (at  Frascati). 

"Home,  Sept.,  1831. — I  have  taken  a  great  resolution, 
because  we  live  in  a  moment  of  crisis. 

"The  enclosed  to  Christiana  will  explain  to  you  every- 
thing. I  have  received  an  invitation  to  come  and  see  her 
in  her  room.  I  shall  be  firm  and  inexorable  as  to  the 
execution  of  the  plan. 

"  I  am  meditating  to  propose  to  Simon  this  afternoon 
whether  it  would  not  be  better  for  himself  to  give  up  his 
situation  and  return  to  Germany. 

"God  give  us  the  right  resolution,  and  bless  what  we 
do.    I  expect  to  hear  your  unbiassed  feeling  and  opinion/ 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  365 

• 

"  26  Sept.,  1831. — Christiana  lias  become  an  angel :  she 
has  cried — accused  herself — complained  of  herself — but 
still  she  goes,  for  you  might  consider  from  this  that  she 
does  not  intend  to  go. 

"  She  goes  next  Thursday  week.  Simon  goes  with 
her. 

"  Everything  is  settled." 

Mabame  Buxsen  to  Bunsen. 

"  Frascati,  27  Sept. — Your  letter  has  comforted  me  in- 
describably, in  every  way — most  of  all  with  the  intelligence 
of  that  softened  state  of  spirit,  which  I  anticipated  would 
take  place  at  the  last,  but  I  had  supposed  not  till  the  last. 
0  I  wish  that  softening  might  extend  further  than  your 
person !  but  although  it  should  go  no  further,  it  is  still  a 
balm  to  one's  heart  that  the  parting  so  far  should  be  with- 
out bitterness  of  feeling. 

"  I  have  passed  a  happy  day,  happy  in  seeing  and  feel- 
ing that  a  real  education  of  our  poor  boys  is  taking  its  com- 
mencement. Henry  is  to-day  as  if  he  could  leap  out  of 
his  skin  for  joy !  and  knows  not  what  to  do,  to  show  his 
affection  to  me,  and  to  Ambrosch.  With  Ambrosch,  after 
the  boys  were  in  bed,  I  have  had  the  most  satisfactory 
conversation ;  and  I  must  form  the  most  cheering  hopes, 
from  his  evident  insight  into  the  manner  in  which  not  only 
our  boys  are  severally  to  be  taught,  but  in  which  their 
characters  are  severally  to  be  worked  upon  and  formed. 
The  boys,  all  four,  little  guessing  what  Journies  are  pro- 
jected, use  for  ever  at  intervals  a  certain  name,  as  of  a 
phantom  the  return  of  which  is  expected. 

"Adieu  my  own  very  dearest!    I  feel  such  a  super- 


366        LIFE   AND   LETTERS    OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

abundance  of  happiness  that  I  must  fear  a  reverse  of  some 
sort." 

BUNSEN  to  his  WlFE. 

"27  Sept,  1831. — This  is  the  week  of  surprises  and 
changes.  You  will  not  have  dreamt  probably  of  what  I 
am  to  write  to  you,  viz.  that  next  Saturday  Christiana  and 
Simon  and  I  shall  come  out  to  Frascati,  and  that  you  will 
be  begged,  as  you  are  now,  to  return  together  with  the 
boys  the  same  day  here,  that  we  may  have  four  quiet  and 
happy  days  together. 

"  So  it  is.  Last  night  she  began  to  speak  on  the  sub- 
ject. We  planned  to  invite  the  whole  family  here :  then, 
we  bethought  ourselves  of  the  impossibility  of  placing 
them  for  want  of  beds,  and  she  resolved  to  go  to  Frascati 
to  take  leave  of  the  dear  girls,  and  to  propose  that  the 
four  boys  might  come  here  with  you,  sleeping  on  their 
paillasses. 

"  All  is  arranged  to  mutual  satisfaction,  and  it  becomes 
clear  to  each  of  us  that  the  only  remedy  was  the  plan 
proposed  by  me — God  be  thanked  for  it  now  and  ever. 

"You  may,  I  think,  announce  to  the  boys  Simon's 
departure." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Bunsex. 

"Frascati,  28  Sept — The  blessed  intelligence  in  your 

letter  had  not  been  out  of  my  hopes  since  I  received  the 

account  last  night  of  the  happy  change  in  your  favour— 

^  but  again,  I  did  not  think  it  would  have  taken  place  so 

rapidly.    Thank  God  for  it !    Pray  give  to  your  sister  my 
kind  love,  and  tell  her  how  I  shall  rejoice  to  see  her,  and 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  367 

spend  the  last  few  days  with  her.  I  cannot  write  to  her 
to-night,  being  quite  knocked  up,  for  the  measure  of 
emotion  being  full,  I  fancy  the  body  is  rather  giving  way, 
having  participated  beyond  its  present  powers  in  the  elas- 
ticity of  mind  within  the  last  two  days." 

On  October  6,  a  letter  from  Bunsen  to  Mrs.  Wadding- 
ton  announced  that  his  sister  and  Simon  had  that 
morning  set  off — "  an  awful  moment,  after  seven  event- 
ful years ! " 

Madam*  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"Rome,  30  Nov.,  1831.— Before  we  left  Frascati,  we 
spent  a  day  at  Marino,  where  I  stayed  and  went  about 
with  the  boys,  while  Charles  went  to  wait  on  the  Pope  *  at 
Castel  Gandolfo,  who  desired  him  to  stay  to  dinner  with  a 
Cardinal,  Maggior  Domo,  and  others  who  were  with  him. 
The  Pope  himself  came  in  at  the  desert,  for  altho'  he 
may  in  the  country  dine  with  ordinary  mortals,  he  never- 
theless takes  his  meals  alone,  not  to  make  ostentation  of 
keeping  to  his  monk's  fare.  He  was  very  cheerful,  and 
the  whole  party  so  full  of  October  merriment,  that  it  was 
quite  an  original  spectacle  for  M.  de  Sydow,f  just  arrived 
in  the  country. 

*  Gregory  XVI.  (Mauro  Capellari),  who  had  boon  elected  in  the 
preceding  February. 

t  Herr  Rudolph  von  Sydow,  a  man  of  intense  religions  fervour,  to 
the  end  of  his  life  a  faithful  and  devoted  friend  of  Madame  de  Bunsen. 
He  was  Secretary  of  Legation  in  Borne,  and  after  filling  several  diplo- 
matic posts,  became  Under-Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs  in 
Berlin.  After  his  retirement  from  office,  he  was  President  of  the  Asso- 
ciation of  the  Red  Cross  under  the  Queen  of  Prussia. 


368        LIFE  AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

"  On  the  20th  I  made  a  visit,  the  first  of  the  kind  I  ever 
made ;  odd  as  it  may  seem,  after  having  been  fifteen  years 
in  Borne,  and  Charles  accredited  to  four  successive  Popes, 
that  I  should  never  have  been  presented  to  any  Pope.  The 
Prussian  Minister  at  Florence,  Baron  de  Martens,  and  his 
wife,  being  for  a  short  time  in  Home,  Charles  had  made  an 
application  to  the  Pope  to  receive  them,  and  thought  it 
right  that  I  should  not  stay  away  on  the  occasion ;  and  we 
were  appointed  to  come  on  Sunday  afternoon,  20th  Novem- 
ber, to  the  Pope's  pavilion  in  the  garden  of  the  Vatican, 
the  place  appointed  for  receiving  ladies.  When  wo  had 
accomplished  the  long  walk  along  the  terraces  of  the 
garden,  and  were  thinking  (I  at  least  for  my  part)  of 
taking  breath  before  the  ascent  of  the  staircase  of  the 
casino,  we  found,  issuing  from  the  hall-door  of  ihe  said 
casino,  actually  on  the  steps  before  it,  nothing  less  than 
the  Pope  himself,  only  devanci  by  his  monsignor  in  waiting, 
and  two  or  three  other  gentiluomini  to  the  right  and  left ; 
— he  had  chosen  this  manner  of  reception  in  order  to  cut 
off  the  ceremony  of  curtsies  and  obeisances ;  and  saying 
'  Siamo  in  campagna,'  he  led  the  way  up  the  stairs,  and 
himself  showed  us  into  his  saloon,  where  he  caused  us  to 
sit  down  with  him  on  chairs  placed  round  a  table  at  one 
end,  and  there  being  one  chair  too  few,  he  was  about  to 
reach  one  himself,  but  that  Charles  got  it  instead.  He 
kept  us  with  him  more  than  half  an  hour,  and  was  very 
agreeable,  with  real  esprit  de  conversation,  showing  neither 
the  embarrassment  of  a  monk,  the  obsequiousness  of  a 
secular  ecclesiastic,  or  the  assumed  dignity  and  extravagant 
condescension  of  a  Cardinal — one  or  other  of  which  ex- 
tremes I  should  have  thought  scarcely  avoidable  in  a 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  369 

person  called  upon  to  play  the  part  of  a  temporal  and 
spiritual  sovereign.  He  began  by  speaking  of  the  im- 
provements he  had  made  and  should  make,  in  the  garden 
and  casino  of  the  Vatican,  giving  his  reasons  for  fixing 
upon  the  Vatican  as  his  principal  residence,  founded  upon 
the  far  greater  importance  of  the  presence  of  the  court  in 
that  forsaken  quarter  of  the  city,  in  giving  employment  to 
the  lower  class  of  inhabitants." 

The  3rd  of  January,  1832,  greeted  the  birth  of  the 
twins,  Theodore  and  Theodora,  who,  in  their  joint  life, ' 
weTe  to  shed  joy  over  the  lives  of  their  parents,  and 
who,  from  the  first,  were  equally  welcomed  with  the 
large  circle  of  their  predecessors — "  the  two  blessings 
of  God  are  thriving  wonderfully ;  we  almost  see  them 
grow,"  wrote  Bunsen  on  the  14th.  9 

Bunsex  to  Mbs.  Waddixgton. 

11 24  Jan.,  1832. — The  twins  were  of  course  to  receive  one 
and  the  same  name.  After  having  balanced  between  Cor- 
nelius and  Cornelia — Constans  and  Constantia — Theodoi 
and  Theodora — we  decided  on  the  last  as  expressing  best 
our  feeling  in  being  so  richly  blest,  for  the  meaning  of  both 
names  is  God's  gift.  Nothing  can  be  more  touching  than  to 
see  the  two  dear  little  angels  lying  by  each  other's  side  in 
the  cradle,  and  they  are  the  object  of  interest  and  admira- 
tion to  all  the  Eoman  principcue  and  English  ladies  who 
come  to  visit  Fanny.  Among  these  ladies  there  is  one 
whom  we  feel  particularly  attached  to,  the  French  Ambas- 
sadress, Comtesse  de  Ste.  Aulaire.  She  is  one  of  the  most 
distinguished,  and  at  the  same  time  most  unassuming 

VOL.  I.  B  B 


370         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

ladies  I  ever  saw.    I  knew  her  already  in  1825,  during  j 

her  first  stay  in  Borne.    Since  then  she  has  made  great  i 

progress  in  the  knowledge  of  Christianity,  I  mean  of  that 
real,  inward  religion  which  is  founded  on  an  internal 
evidence  of  the  grace  of  God  in  the  salvation  through 
Christ.  She  had  already  in  1825  a  decided  tendency 
towards  the  religion  of  the  Gospel  (she  is,  as  well  as  her 
husband,  of  one  of  the  most  ancient  Catholic  families): 
and  her  intimacy  with  the  Duchesse  de  Broglie,  to  whose 
brother,  the  Baron  de  Stael,  she  had  an  early  attachment, 
sanctified  by  religion,  has  developed  and  directed  her 
religious  feelings  and  principles.  She  has  written  a  really 
Christian  Preface  to  the  ExtraiU  de  Lettres  Chre'tiennei, 
which  she  published  last  year  anonymously  at  Paris. 
These  are  letters  of  Madame  de  Guyon,  in  extracts, 
divested  of  all  that  was  extravagant  and  enthusiastic  w 
that  distinguished  and  really  Christian  woman.  It  is  very 
extraordinary  that  such  a  person  should  be  French  Ambas- 
sadress to  the  Holy  See!  She  and  two  other  Catholic 
ladies  are  members  of  a  society  of  about  sixteen  persons, 
who  meet  every  Thursday  in  the  afternoon  to  read  the 
Bible  together.  Nothing  can  be  more  touching  and  edify- 
ing than  her  domestic  life.  The  whole  family  read  every 
morning  a  chapter  of  the  New  Testament,  and  when  she 
is  alone  with  her  three  daughters,  models  of  simplicity  in 
their  manners,  she  makes  them  write  down  their  explana- 
tions and  meditations  upon  the  same.  Of  course  all  this  is 
concealed  from  the  world,  and  done  as  in  time  of  persecu- 
tion. Strange  compound  of  human  things  in  which  we 
live !  The  other  day  she  was  distressed  by  the  news  that 
the  eldest  daughter  of  the  Duchesse  de  Broglie,  of  fifteen 


ROMAN    SUNSHINE.  371 

years,  was  dangerously  ill  and  near  her  death.  MadamB 
de  Stael  (the  widow)  and  the  Duchess  wrote  to  her  in  tho 
most  edifying  manner.  Then  came  letters  that  gave  Borne 
hope,  but  a  fortnight  ago  a  courier  arrived  with  the  news 
of  her  death.  I  have  since  read  the  letters  of  the  Duchess 
and  Madame  de  Stael.  They  would  be  more  worth  print- 
ing than  any  histories  of  saints.  Madame  de  Staiil 
describes  the  agony  of  the  last  night.  Then,  when  death 
was  approaching,  and  the  child  began  to  comfort  her 
father  and  mother,  saying:  'Jo  meurs  en  paiz,  ne  pleurez 
pas  ? '  the  Duchess,  overcoming  her  feelings  as  a  mother, 
rose  and  pronounced  these  words — '  Hon  enfant,  va  em 
paix :  ta  foi  t'a  sauvee ;  laisse  nous  ta  paix  que  Dieu  t'a 
doonee.'    After  this  benediction  the  girl  expired,  smiling." 

Madame  BunskH  to  her  Mother. 

"  24  Jan.,  1832. — My  own  Mother,  to-morrow  it  will  bo 
three  weehs  since  I  was  blessed  with  two  more  dear 
treasures — more  prized  and  delighted  in,  I  think,  than  any 
before,  not  because  the  preceding  ones  were  less  valuable, 
but  because  by  practice  one  learns  to  enjoy,  and  learns  to 
be  more  thankful  ....  Their  father  has  high  satisfac- 
tion with  the  progress  the  boys  are  making.  Oh  my 
Mother !  what  a  blessing  it  is  to  see  these  boys,  indeed  all 
these  children,  as  happy  as  the  day  is  long,  and  going  with 
spirits  and  gaiety  from  one  thing  to  another." 

Busses  to  Mas.  Waddingtoi*. 

"  9  March. — Last  Sunday  our  dear  babes  were  baptized, 
in  our  chapel,  where  a  very  considerable  congregation  had 
united  to  see  tho  twins  with  their  two  nurses,  and  their 


! 


372         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    HUXSEX. 

seven  brothers  and  sisters,  whom  I  made  to  stand  in  a  line 
on  one  side  of  the  baptismal  font :  *  a  sight  which  touched 
me  so  much  when  I  saw  it  that  I  was  quite  overcome 
during  the  ceremony.  The  afternoon  we  spent  all  together, 
with  the  friends  of  the  house,  in  the  Villa  Pamfili :  it  was 
the  first  perfect  spring  day,  the  clearest  sky,  the  sweetest 
air,  and  the  meadow  of  the  Villa  quite  covered  with  thou- 
sands of  anemones  and  violets.* ' 

Madame  Buxsex  to  her  Mother. 

"Rome,  10  May,  1832.— My  own  Mother,  I  have  lately 
written  a  few  lines  to  you,  and  if  they  should  ever  reach 
you,  I  hope  you  will  kindly  receive  for  my  sake— who  do 
you  think — a  Frenchman!  and  no  common  Frenchman. 
It  is  M.  Bio,  of  Vannes  in  Bretagne,  whom  we  have  seen 
much  of  this  winter:  he  glories  in  being  a  Breton,  in 
having  spoken  all  the  years  of  his  childhood  exclusively 
the  Breton  language,  but  as  this  is  preserved  in  Bretagne 
in  much  less  perfection  than  the  Welsh  in  Wales,  he 
makes  it  the  principal  object  of  a  *  journey  to  Great 
Britain  to  study  his  native  language  at  its  source.  He 
was  overjoyed  and  astonished  at  my  promising  him  a 
letter  of  introduction  on  the  Welsh  frontier.  I  hope  his 
being  a  man  of  distinguished  talents,  and  heroic  courage, 
and  sincere  devotion  to  his  opinions,  will  gild  over  to  you 
all  the  circumstances  of  his  being  an  Ultra-RoyalUt,  an 
Ultra-Catholic,  and  ready  at  any  moment  to  shed  the  last 
drop  of  his  blood  in  defence  of  the  Drapeau  Blanc  and  the 

•  This  font  was  first  used  on  this  occasion.  Its  pedestal,  with 
designs  by  Thorwaldsen,  was  the  gift  of  Mr.  Pusey ;  the  vase  of  gilt 
bronze,  executed  by  Hopfgarten,  was  the  gift  of  Bunsen. 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  373 

sovereignty  of  the  Pope !  I  do  not  most  assuredly  approve 
of  his  creed  either  religious  or  political,  but  his  sincerity, 
and  commanding  character,  enforces  respect.  He  speaks 
English  very  well,  and  also  Italian  and  German,  is 
possessed  of  a  quantity  of  information  on  all  subjects,  and 
has  so  much  interest  in  the  fine  arts,  that  conversation 
may  be  held  with  him  on  a  variety  of  matters,  without 
touching  the  dangerous  point  of  politics :  but  yet  I  hope 
when  you  see  him  you  will  set  him  to  relate  the  remark- 
able history  of  his  own  campaign  at  the  age  of  sixteen, 
during  the  cent  jours,  when  he  helped  to  organize  an  insur- 
rection against  the  authorities  constituted  by  Napoleon. 

"We  saw  a  great  deal  of  Sir  Walter  Scott  the  first  week 
of  his  being  here,  and  he  once  dined  with  us :  the  first 
time  of  seeing  him  was  quite  a  shock  to  me,  for  though  I 
had  been  told  how  infirm  he  was  become,  I  was  not 
prepared  for  his  difficulty  in  speaking.  But  tho'  his 
articulation  is  gone,  his  conversation  is  much  of  the  same 
sort  as  formerly,  and  his  expression  of  goodness  and 
benevolence  really  venerable,  in  the  midst  of  physical 
decay.  He  is  very  weak  in  body,  and  I  am  afraid  not  well 
managed  by  his  daughter,  who  is  nervously  anxious  about 
him,  but  does  not  influence  him.  He  is  going  away  next 
Friday,  provided  he  is  not  knocked  up  by  an  excursion  to 
Bracciano,  on  which  Sir  William  Gell  is  taking  him  to-day, 
intending  to  set  off  at  ten  o'clock,  and  drive  in  the  burn- 
ing sun  twenty-five  miles.  I  am  sure  they  ought  not  to 
have  kept  him  so  long  in  the  south,  for  heat  cannot  be 
good  for  him :  I  fear  he  will  not  live  long."  * 

*  Madame  de  Bunsen  ever  remembered  Sir  Walter  Scott' 8  touching 
last  words  to  her  on  leaving  Rome—"  I  hopo  and  believe  your  own 


374         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

"Draicati,  29  June,  1833. — I  must  tell  my  own  Mother 
something  of  our  delightful  and  throughout  fortunate 
expedition  to  the  mountains.  We  drove  on  Tuesday  morn- 
ing to  Cavi,  four  miles  beyond  Palestrina.  At  Cavi  we 
stopped  to  bait  the  horses,  and  got  out  of  the  carriage 
without  knowing  where  in  the  little  town  we  should  seek  a 
resting-place  for  ourselves  better  than  the  stable  into 
which  the  horses  were  conveyed:  we  sent  Franz  to  examine 
the  room  that  was  offered  us  in  the  Osteria,  but  he  came 
back  and  reported  that  'it  was  used  as  a  henroost,  and 
the  people  were  just  driving  out  the  hens ' ;  so  we  asked 
a  man  on  the  piazza  whether  there  was  not  a  private  house 
where  we  might  be  let  in  to  rest  for  an  hour  or  two,  and 
he  answered— -perchk  turn  entrate  Id  f  pointing  to  a  palace,  to 
which  we  had  not  dreamt  of  aspiring.  But  we  took  the 
hint,  and  sent  up  Franz  to  make  our  request,  which  was 
no  sooner  uttered  than  granted,  the  Guardaroba  and 
others  came  to  receive  us  like  expected  guests,  we  found 
clean  rooms  with  excellent  new  furniture,  beds,  and 
couches,  placed  at  our  disposal,  a  well-provided  kitchen, 
and  such  a  cordial  welcome,  that  we  might  have  been 
tempted  to  consider  the  whole  as  a  dream,  having  been 
five  minutes  before  in  an  unknown  place,  not  knowing 
where  to  enter.  Upon  inquiry,  it  came  out  that  the  pos- 
sessor was  a  neighbour  of  ours  in  Borne,  and  his  Guarda- 
roba and  Ministro  well  acquainted  with  Mary's  nurse  and 
her  husband,  and  other  families  of  our  nurses,  in  the 
neighbouring  town  of  Zagarola,  so  that  we  were  not  so 
unknown  as  we  had  supposed.    We  brought  some  provi- 

feelings  prove  your  reward  for  the  kindness  and  hospitality  you  have 
shown  me." 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  375 


sions  with  us,  and  the  people  of  the  house  furnished  us 
with  so  much  besides,  that  we  made  a  great  dinner,  and 
haying  enjoyed  the  view  from  the  terrace  into  a  beautiful 
rich  valley,  bounded  by  steep  and  wooded  hills,  and  open- 
ing to  give  a  prospect  of  the  clear  blue  Yolscian  moun- 
tains, we  set  off  again,  refreshed  and  pleased,  at  four 
o'clock,  and  drove  six  miles  further  along  a  good  road, 
which  then  came  to  an  end,  so  we  left  the  carriage  to 
return  to  Cavi,  and  went  the  remaining  two  miles  of  steep 
ascent  on  foot  to  Olevano,  where  we  were  cordially  re- 
ceived by  Signora  Costanza  Baldi,*  an  old  acquaintance  of 
many  years'  standing,  who  possesses  a  casino  in  a  delight- 
ful situation  out  of  the  town  ;  in  short,  every  situation  in 
that  country  is  beautiful,  where  the  view  is  not  shut  out 
by  walls.  I  had  heard  much  of  the  neighbourhood  of 
Olevano,  but  had  not  fancied  anything  so  fine  as  it  is — 
such  an  assemblage  of  the  finest  materials  of  landscape,  so 
consummately  grouped,  and  so  continually  varied — moun- 
tain and  plain,  bare  hills  and  woody  knolls,  green  patches 
and  wild  thickets,  rugged  rocks  and  rich  vegetation,  chest- 
nut groves,  vineyards  and  cornfields :  and  the  numerous 
towns  either  perched  like  eagles'  nests  on  the  summit  of 
mountains,  or  fastened  like  pigeon-houses  to  a  precipitous 
declivity,  or  rising  in  the  shape  of  ant-hills  on  a  rock  of 
their  own,  in  short  situated  as  if  the  eye  of  the  painter  had 
been  more  considered  than  the  convenience  of  the  inhabi- 
tants, which  is  to  be  explained  by  the  circumstance  of  their 
having  been  all  originally  fortresses,  the  position  of  which 

*  The  delightful  though  primitive  casino-inn  of  Olevano — one  of 
the  most  gloriously  situated  in  Italy,  is  still  in  the  hands  of  the  Baldi 
family. 


376         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

was  selected  on  account  of  the  difficulty  of  approach.  The 
next  day  we  remained  at  Olevano,  going  out  in  the  morn- 
ing early,  in  one  direction,  sitting  in  the  shade  to  draw 
when  it  grew  hotter,  and  after  dinner  being  conducted  by 
Signora  Gostanza  and  Signor  Giacomo  the  organist  of 
Olevano  on  the  other  side,  first  up  to  the  ruined  castle, 
then  thro'  the  town  to  the  Tigna  dell'  Arciprete,  a  beauti- 
ful spot  which  we  had  often  seen  in  the  sketch-books  of 
painters.  We  had  observed  by  the  way  that  we  were  fol- 
lowed by  the  Signora  Costanza's  maid  with  a  covered 
basket  on  her  head,  and  on  our  arrival  at  the  Yigna  the 
materials  of  a  merenda  were  produced,  Signora  Costanza 
having  been  quite  distressed  at  not  having  prevailed  upon 
us  at  dinner  to  eat  as  much  as  she  thought  necessary.  On 
our  way  back,  she  sent  Signor  Giacomo  up  a  high  cherry- 
tree,  from  which  he  broke  off  whole  twigs  loaded  with 
cherries,  to  the  exceeding  delight  and  enjoyment  of  the 
boys.  The  Signora  Baldi  is  a  possidenU  of  Olevano,  who  lets 
her  spare  rooms  every  summer  to  painters,  who  come  to  study 
the  scenery  and  the  features  of  the  inhabitants,  who  are  a 
very  handsome  race — the  women  with  a  Vittoria  *  cast  of 
features,  but  taller  and  with  better  figures.  It  was  a  treat 
to  see  some  of  the  saltarello-dancers :  and  all  or  most 
belong  to  a  class  of  which  much  is  heard  in  novels  and 
poetry,  and  something  in  books  of  travels,  but  which  are 
rarely  seen  in  reality— country-people  not  rich  enough  for 
luxury,  but  sufficiently  well  off  to  afford  themselves  leisure 
for  amusement.  In  the  Casa  Baldi  we  lived  as  if  on  a 
visit,  but  the  Signora  had  a  present  for  the  food  and  lodg- 

*  Vittoria  was  a  beautiful  peasant-girl  of  Albano,  discovered  by 
Kostner,  and  often  painted  by  him  and  other  artists. 


ROMAN    SUNSHINE.  377 

ing  she  had  afforded  us,  reckoned  according  to  what  would 
have  been  fair  at  an  inn,  if  there  had  been  such  a  thing. 

"  We  sot  off  before  six  on  mules  and  asses  to  go  across 
the  mountains  to  Subiaeo,  a  distance  of  twelve  miles,  along 
the  most  rugged  roads,  but  presenting  the  finest  variety  of 
prospects.  Subiaeo  is  situated  in  the  valley  of  the  Anio, 
27  miles  above  Tivoli;  therefore  hore  we  had  river- 
scenery,  and  abrupt  mountains,  the  character  of  which 
reminded  me  of  those  which  riso  above  the  Rydal  Lake  in 
Westmoreland — indeed  this  tract  of  country  being  lime- 
stone and  not  volcanic,  may  by  nature  bear  a  similarity  tit 
home-scenes;  and  our  great  enjoyment  was  the  observation 
of  the  wild  flowers,  among  which,  at  a  certain  elevation,  for 
the  first  time  in  Italy  I  found  my  Mother's  favourite 
veronica,  and  also  leave*  of  primroses,  it  was  of  course  too 
late  for  flowers.  The  beauty  and  variety  of  flowers  in 
these  regions  is  not  to  be  described,  numbers  growing  wild 
that  we  cultivate  in  gardens, — Yenus's  looking-glass, 
devil  in  a  bush,  adonis,  lupins,  and  a  quantity  more  of 
which  I  do  not  know  or  have  forgotten  the  names.  The 
unusually  long  continuance  of  cool  and  rainy  weather  had 
preserved  everywhere  the  freshness  of  the  verdure,  and 
the  ripening  corn  completed  the  effect,  so  that  it  was 
more  like  an  English  June,  but  with  the  high  colouring  of 
Italy.  The  early  part  of  this  day  was  overcast,  and  we" 
had  a  Htorm  or  two  while  passing  chestnut  woode,  and  a 
more  serious  shower  which  obliged  us  to  shelter  in  the 
village  of  Iiocca  di  S.  Stefano — but  as  wo  did  not  get  wet, 
the  clouds  did  us  good  service  in  protecting  us  from  the 
aim.  At  Subioco  the  day  cleared  up  and  we  went  after 
dinner  to  see  the  celebrated  convents  of  San  Benedetto  and 


378        LIFE  AND  LETTERS   OF  BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

Santa  Scolastica In  returning  we  slept  again  at 

Olevano,  and  intended  to  nave  seen  much  more  of  its 
walks,  but  were  detained  at  the  Casa  Baldi  by  a  merry 
party  of  the  inhabitants,  who  sang  national  airs,  accom- 
panying themselves  on  the  guitar  and  mandoline,  and 
afterwards  danced  the  saltarello  in  every  variety.  We  staid 
another  night  at  Cavi  with  the  same  hospitable  people  who 
had  received  us  on  our  entrance  into  the  town,  and  on  the 
following  evening  before  dark  we  were  safe  at  home  at 
Frascati,  and  found  the  dear  girls  and  sweet  babies  well 
and  brisk :  and  having  enjoyed  our  five  days'  idleness  and 
exercise,  we  now  set  in  good  earnest  to  our  regular,  quiet, 
and  busy  summer  course  of  life. 

"  Oh  my  Mother !  I  wish  I  could  describe  how  delightful 
the  twins  are !  the  boy  in  particular — the  manner  in  which 
he  opens  those  big  sensible  eyes,  and  fixes  them  upon 
somebody  he  knows,  and  then  bursts  into  a  smile  and 
trembles  with  delight !  The  dear  little  girl  is  also  full  of 
smiles  and  intelligence,  but  in  a  quieter  way,  and  does  not 
crow  as  much  as  he  does." 

"  Frascati,  24  July,  1832. — This  year  our  summer  exist- 
ence is  unmixed  enjoyment,  without  having  anybody  to 
plague,  or  thwart,  or  disturb  us.  Having  allowed  the  boys 
and  ourselves  the  refreshment  of  the  journey  to  Subiaco,  on 
resettling  at  Frascati  they  were  settled  in  a  regular  plan  of 
lessons,  so  contrived  as  to  economise  time  and  strength  as 
much  as  possible,  in  order  to  make  the  most  of  this  invalu- 
able season  of  relief  from  interruption,  in  which  their  Father 
can  urge,  aid,  and  enforce,  as  well  as  instruct.  They  get  up 
at  five  o'clock,  and  we  breakfast  at  eight,  and  between  those 
hours  they  prepare  themselves  for  lessons,  and  walk  out 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  379 

with  us  for  half  an  hour.  At  nine  o'clock  they  set  to  work 
again,  and  are  kept  to  it  in  good  earnest  till  twelve,  when  we 
drive  them  all  to  lie  down  on  their  beds,  where  they  have  no 
difficulty  in  sleeping  till  dinner-time  at  one  o'clock,  except 
indeed  that  Henry  often  gets  up  before  that  to  practise  on 
the  pianoforte,  for  which  he  has  little  or  no  time  except  on 
Sundays.  After  dinner  they  play  at  ball  till  three,  when 
they  set  to  again,  and  work  till  six,  and  then  walk  out  till 
dark,  sup,  and  go  to  bed.  What  the  lessons  consist  of 
Charles  will  best  explain :  that  of  which  I  take  cognizance 
is  their  English,  in  which  the  younger  ones  spend  two 
hours  every  day,  and  Henry  one  hour ;  besides  which,  two 
days  in  the  week,  Charles  and  George  read  with  me  in  the 
English  Bible  chapters  relating  to  the  portions  of  ancient 
history  which  they  have  gone  through  with  their  father. 
My  dear  Henry's  state  of  constant  activity  and  strenuous 
exertion  is  an  indescribable  blessing.  Ernest  and  Charles 
too  make  evident  progress,  altho'  with  them  it  is  against 
inclination:  George  in  the  act  of  acquiring  is  in  his 
clement,  and  he  has  a  natural  instinct  for  going  to  the 
bottom  of  a  thing.  I  have  the  comfort  of  seeing  my  own 
dear  Frances  and  Emilia  steadily  advancing  in  good  habits. 
My  little  sweet  Mary  gives  me  more  trouble  and  anxiety 
than  her  sisters,  she  is  so  very  often  so  very  naughty — so 
resolved  to  establish  her  own  absolute  dominion,  and  to  bo 
herself  exonerated  from  all  observances  and  obligations." 

"  Frcticati,  16  August,  1832. — You  suffer  more,  my  own 
Mother,  in  the  anticipation  of  my  dear  Henry's  departure 
to  school  than  I  do — that  is  a  fact  upon  which  I  entreat 
you  to  rest  for  your  comfort.  The  explanation  of  so  strange 
a  fact  is  my  over-filled  life— filled  to  overflowing ;  which 


380        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

leaves  so  many  present  matters  of  attention  to  occupy  my 
thoughts  in  the  narrow  intervals  of  engrossing  occupa- 
tions, that  the  idea  of  the  parting — the  first  separation — 
the  chasm  on  which  we  stand,  only  casually  recurs  to  make 
my  heart  swell;  and  I  hare  hitherto  succeeded  well  in 
driving  it  away,  for  it  will  not  bear  dwelling  upon.  What- 
ever is  to  be  gone  through,  may  be  gone  through:  and 
therefore  all  will  be  well  when  the  time  is  come  and  gone : 
but  there  is  no  imagining  the  possibility.  Well  do  I  remem- 
ber how  I  was  struck  long  ago,  when  little  C.  and  F.  drove 
away  from  Hanover,  at  your  saying,  '  There !  that  is  at 
an  end/7  It  is  an  idea  quite  foreign  to  a  young  person 
that  anything  can  end,  but  which  the  experience  of  years 
renders  familiar.  When  my  dear  Henry  shall  have  been 
launched  on  the  ocean  of  a  great  school,  afterwards  to  go 
to  a  university,  after  that  to  enter  upon  a  profession,  I  may 
have,  I  have  the  greatest  hope  that  I  shall  have,  the  satis- 
faction of  knowing  him  to  be  advancing  in  every  respect  as 
I  can  wish ;  but  the  period,  in  which  he  belonged  to  myself, 
will  belong  to  the  past  and  exist  but  in  grateful  recollection. 
But  this  is  as  it  ought  to  be :  he  was  not  given  to  me  for 
myself,  but  I  was  allowed  to  have  the  care  and  enjoyment 
of  a  child  of  God,  to  help  him  on  his  way  to  the  best  of  my 
power :  and  now  my  power  will — not  end  altogether — but 
give  way  to  one  more  efficient,  the  bracing  influence  of  a 
social  system.  But  although  this  last  year  of  being  at 
home  is  in  many  respects  a  most  important  and  useful  year 
to  him,  I  have  hourly  opportunities  of  observing  that  it 
should  be  the  last :  if  he  remained  longer  he  would  be  par- 
tially matured  before  the  time,  he  would  be  brought  too  far 
into  life,  ho  would  imbibe  too  much  of  other  people's  expe- 


ROMAN    SUNSHINE.  381 


rience  :  it  will  be  good  for  him,  or  rather  essential  for  him 
to  be  kept  back  among  boys  for  a  given  time,  in  which  the 
body  may  be  strengthening,  and  the  mind  acquiring  the 
materials  of  knowledge.  In  his  present  scrupulous  and 
indefatigable  attention  to  a  succession  of  duties,  he  is 

already  too  little  like  a  boy It  is  already  a  subject 

under  consideration  whether  when  we  send  Henry  to 
Sclmlpf  orte,  we  ought  not  also  to  send  Ernest — probably  to 
the  military  school  at  Berlin ! 

"  My  own  Mother,  think  as  little  as  you  can  help  of  the 
parting  of  next  Spring ;  but  think  rather  that  there  is  no 
knowing  what  a  year  may  bring  forth,  and  that  if  it  is  best 
for  parents  and  children,  we  too  may  soon  have  a  summons 
to  follow  them  northwards.  If  I  was  to  say  what  I  don't 
know  how  to  bear  in  the  business,  it  is  our  not  being  near 
enough  to  have  them  in  the  holidays,  and  the  risk  attending 

« 

those  holidays  if  they  are  allowed  to  leave  school  to  go 
elsewhere. 

"  I  have  less  leisure  than  ever  this  summer,  altho'  now 
always  well  and  brisk ;  but  the  reason  is  what  I  rejoice  in, 
that  I  have  this  year  much  to  do  with  my  children,  and  I  trust 
to  some  purpose.  .  .  .  My  dear  George  is  in  his  best  state, 
well  in  health,  mild  in  temper,  and  taking  in  knowledge  at 
every  pore.  Of  my  sweet  twins  there  is  so  little  to  be 
said,  and  so  much  to  be  felt !  they  are  always  well,  always 
growing,  and  increasing  in  intelligence.  And  how  little 
in  every  day  can  I  manage  to  nurse  them  !  but  I  enjoy  the 
sight  of  their  enjoyment  of  existence." 

"  Rome,  5  Nov.,  1832. — My  own  dearest,  dearest  Mother ! 
I  received  five  days  ago  your  letter  of  the  15th  Oct.,  and 
hard  it  is  to  know  how  to  begin  an  answer, — hard  to 


382         LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

check  and  choke  down  all  that  multitude  of  insufficient 
expressions  of  love  and  thankfulness,  which  as  being  in- 
sufficient, I  will  not  write  .... 

"  I  have  never  yet  told  you,  my  own  Mother,  that  I  shall 
not,  as  I  believed,  have  to  part  from  Henry  next  spring, 
though  Ambrosch  cannot  remain  with  us  after  next 
February.  "We  were  at  Frascati  in  habits  of  daily  inter- 
course with  Abeken,  the  nephew  of  one  of  Charles's 
earliest  and  dearest  friends,  who  had  been  in  Borne  ever 
since  last  winter,  and  became  convinced  that  he  was  not 
only  in  character,  principle,  and  acquirements,  fitted  for 
becoming  the  successor  of  Ambrosch  for  a  year,  but  that 
he  was  well  inclined  to  take  the  office.  This  being  the 
case,  Charles  made  up  his  mind,  after  much  consideration, 
and  consultation  with  Tippelskirch  and  Sydow  (who  both 
have  the  kindness  to  give  very  material  assistance  in  the 
instruction  of  the  boys),  that  he  would  be  doing  right  by 
both  Henry  and  Ernest  to  detain  them  another  year,  and 
then  send  them  both  away  together.  There  was  always 
an  objection  to  sending  Henry  without  Ernest,  as  the  spur 
of  emulation  would  then  be  removed  from  the  latter.  And 
as  to  both  of  the  boys,  it  was  an  awful  circumstance  to  put 
them,  so  soon,  out  of  reach  of  all  paternal  influence — 
for  it  must  be  considered  that  being  obliged  to  settle  them 
in  public  schools  at  such  a  distance,  is  throwing  them  off 
like  a  ball  that  cannot  be  caught  again.  We  may  perhaps 
not  see  them  again  till  they  are  fixed  in  character  as  men ; 
wherefore,  if  it  could  be  made  clear  that  in  their  learning 
they  would  not  be  kept  back  by  a  year's  longer  detention 
at  homo,  in  other  respects  it  was  evidently  right  to  detain 
them : — and,  with  this  conviction,  you  may  conceive  how 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  383 

our  feelings  are  relieved  by  this  change  of  plan 

Charles  has  begun  again  to  give  lessons  to  the  boys,  who 
in  the  remaining  days  of  October  after  our  return,  went 
over  their  summer  lessons  by  themselves,  and  yesterday 
stood  an  examination  in  form  by  their  father,  Ambrosch, 
and  Abeken,  which  on  the  whole  was  very  satisfactory." 
"Rome,  12  JNov.f  1832.— I  will  at  last  begin  to  tell  my 

dearest  Mother  of  our  late  journey  in  the  Abruzzi 

The  threatened  arrival  of  Prince  Augustus  of  Prussia  in 
Home,  made  it  necessary  for  us  to  conclude  our  vffleggiatura 
by  the  middle  of  October,  that  we  might  be  settled  before 
he  was  likely  to  come  upon  us :  and  it  had  long  been  our 
intention  to  spend  our  last  days  in  the  country  in  a  little 
tour,  that  the  boys  might  have  a  thorough  refreshment 
after  the  very  good  earnest  studies  of  the  summer,  before  the 
studies  of  the  winter  should  begin.  Many  were  the  direc- 
tions in  which  we  might  have  found  objects  of  interest,  fine 
tracts  of  country,  and  mountain  air,  but  we  decided  upon 
the  province  of  Abruzzo  Citra,  and  the  Lake  of  Fucino,  or 
Logo  di  Celano  as  it  is  called  in  the  maps.  Xestner,  who  in 
all  his  travels  in  Italy  had  never  been  there  (for  near  as  it 
is  to  Borne,  it  is  out  of  the  common  beat),  resolved  to  be  of 
the  party  with  his  nephew — Kestnerino.*  So,  after  having 
on  the  30th  of  September,  taken  leave  of  Monte  Cavo  and 
Nemi,  by  riding  on  asses,  en  masse,  including  the  little 
girls  and  Miss  Thompson  (the  governess),  over  the  moun- 
tain, dining  at  Nemi,  and  then  driving  home  by  the  direct 
road — we  spent  Monday  and  Tuesday  the  1st  and  2d  of 
October  in  packing  and  arranging  the  awful  breaking-up 

*  The  nephew  of  M.  Kestner,  Hermann,  went  by  the  name  of 
(  Kestnerino." 


384        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUN8EN. 

of  our  villeggiatura — awful  in  joke,  as  comprising  such  a 
quantity  of  trouble,  such  cart-loads  of  luggage :  and  awful 
in  serious  feeling,  as  closing  a  period  of  four  months  spent 
in  peace,  in  the  enjoyment  of  all  the  splendour  of  nature 
and  climate:  of  all  the  comfort  of  leisure  for  important 
duties,  and  without  any  drawback  from  sickness  on  our 
part,  or  that  of  the  children. 

"  Being  at  Borne,  on  Friday,  the  5th,  at  half -past  four  in 
the  morning,  we  packed  our  party  into  our  own  open-car- 
riage, three  boys  sitting  opposite  their  parents,  and  the 
fourth — the  very  substantial  George— being  crammed  in 
between :  the  servant  Franz  on  the  box.  Travelling  dress 
whether  to  wear  or  carry  was  a  difficult  question,  but  as  many 
things  as  were  indispensable  for  the  boys  were  crammed  into 
bags  hung  generally  on  the  outside  of  the  carriage,  it  is  hard 
to  be  explained  where ;  the  small  carriage  box  under  the  front 
seat  having  enough  to  do  to  carry  the  indispensable  for  the 
chiefs  of  the  party.  "We  were  very  proud  of  being  at  the 
Porta  Salara  before  Kestner ;  day  broke  as  we  reached  the 
Allia,  where  the  Fabii  perished;  and  by  ten  o'clock  we 
arrived  at  the  Passo  di  Correse,  where  an  osteria  is  situated, 
at  which  our  horses  were  to  bait.  Near  this  spot  a  river 
joins  the  Tiber,  formerly  called  the  Cures,  and*  held  sacred 
by  the  ancient  Sabines,  and  though  every  trace  of  their  city  of 
that  name  had  disappeared  even  under  the  Roman  Emperors, 
the  name  of  Correse  still  remains :  it  is  a  beautiful  stream, 
alternately  glassy  and  broken  by  pebbles.  Here  we  left 
the  Campagna  di  Roma,  and  entered  the  defiles  of  the 
Sabina,  where  the  country  is  beautiful — narrow  vallies  and 
steep  declivities,  and  a  number  of  little  towns  jot  rather 
fastnesses,  a  great  deal  of  wood,  and  the  road  good,  tho* 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  385 


hilly :  we  &Lept  at  Poggio  S.  Lorenzo,  where  there  is  no  inn, 
but  we  obtained  clean  beds  in  a  private  house,  and  the  use 
of  the  kitchen,  where  Franz  and  Kestner's  servant  (called 
Vincenzo  di  Annovera)  cooked  our  dinner.  The  next  day 
we  arrived  before  noon  at  Bieti,  situated  on  the  same  river 
Velino  which  afterwards  falls  over  the  rocks  above  Terni, 
in  a  valley  as  luxuriant  as  the  country  about  Naples,  and 
in  the  same  manner  disfigured  (to  my  perceptions)  by  a 
continual  vegetation  of  tall  trees  with  festoons  of  vines,- 
which  in  a  small  number  are  beautiful,  but  when  spread 
over  a  whole  expanse  of  country  destroy  all  beauty — 
the  undulation  of  ground  and  variety  of  cultivation  being 
concealed,  and  nothing  but  the  summits  of  the  hills  seen 
over  them.  However  we  climbed  up  the  tower  of  the  Cathe- 
dral, and  the  hill  of  the  Capuchins,  and  thus  discovered 
all  the  fine  forms  of  mountains  from  which  we  had  come, 
and  to  which  we  were  going.  Charles  called  upon  the 
Bishop  whom  he  had  known  in  Borne,  and  the  Cardinal 
Delegate :  and  before  he  could  return  from  the  latter,  the 
former  came  to  return  his  visit,  and  to  bring  him  a  packet 
of  letters  of  recommendation  for  the  journey,  which  gave 
me  an  opportunity  of  seeing  Monsignor  Ferretti,*  who  dis- 
tinguished himself  last  year  in  the  time  of  insurrection,  by 
being  the  one  faithful  of  a  thousand,  and  not  merely  pas- 
sively but  actively ;  for  by  his  resolute  manner  of  dismiss- 
ing the  messengers  of  the  insurgents,  and  by  putting  his 
own  hands  to  the  preparations  for  defence,  he  made  the 
people  of  Bieti  understand  that  it  was  out  of  the  question 
to  show  their  ill-will  or  faintheartedness,  and  that  resistance 
must  be   made,   even   tho'  they  had  but  one  piece  of 

*  Afterwards  Pope  Pius  IX. 
VOL.  I.  C  C 


386        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

ordnance,  no  ammunition,  and  on  one  side  of  the  town  no 
ramparts.  He  related  to  me  himself  how  he  fabricated 
musket-balls,  and  parcelled  out  his  few  materials  of  resist- 
ance, altogether  putting  so  good  a  face  upon  the  matter, 
that  with  the  assistance  of  a  tremendous  storm  of  hail  which 
pattered  in  the  faces  of  the  insurgents,  the  latter  were  bo 
disconcerted,  that  Bieti  was  enabled  to  hold  out  until  the 
arrival  of  Colonel  Manley,  who  made  a  forced  march  to 
come  to  the  rescue  with  a  body  of  Papalini.  But  he  did 
not  tell  me  himself  what  he  had  once  told  Charles,  that 
when  the  messengers  of  the  insurgents  came  to  summon 
him  to  surrender ;  he  first  admonished  them  solemnly  as 
to  the  great  sin  of  rebellion,  and  assured  them,  in  termini  da 
vescovo,  that  he  should  not  be  guilty  of  it :  but  finding  that 
he  had  not  thereby  succeeded  in  convincing  them  he  was  in 
earnest,  he  took  off  his  Bishop's  cap  and  gown  and  took 
out  the  cross  of  the  Legion  of  Honour  (which  he  had 
obtained  in  the  time  of  the  French),  stuck  it  in  his  button- 
hole, and  then  poured  forth  against  them,  alia  Romana, 
all  the  terms  of  vituperation  which  the  Italian  language 
affords :  which  made  them  comprehend  he  was  not  to  be 
dealt  with.  He  belongs  in  appearance  as  well  as  character 
to  earlier  times,  and  has  the  finely  chiselled  features  and 
powerful  colouring  of  an  old  Italian  portrait  He  was 
accompanied  by  the  Principe  di  Francavilla,  who  was  just 
returned  from  Aquila,  and  a  relation  of  the  Governor,  who 
informed  us  of  two  things,  one  that  permission  had  been 
cent  from  Naples  for  the  entrance  of  our  horses  at  the 
frontier,  and  the  other,  that  the  Governor  expected  us  at 
his  own  house— which  second  piece  of  intelligence  was  as 
embarrassing  as  the  first  was  satisfactory. 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  387 

"  Sunday  morning,  the  7th,  we  proceeded  on  our  journey 
thro'  the  celebrated  pass  of  Antrodoco,  which  the  French 
forced  with  great  loss  of  life  in  the  time  of  the  Revolution, 
tho'  only  defended  by  half-armed  peasants,  and  which  it  was 
supposed  would  have  entirely  checked  the  Austrians  in  the 
year  1820,  so  great  is  its  natural  strength :  but  the  latter 
met  with  no  resistance.  The  scenery  is  magnificent  every 
step  of  the  way  from  Bieti,  and  in  addition  to  the  more 
usual  ornaments  of  the  Italian  landscape,  I  saw  ash-trees 
of  the  finest  form  and  growth,  in  natural  woods,  such  as  I 
had  never  seen  out  of  England.  At  Antrodoco  a  friend  of 
the  Bishop  of  Bieti  asked  us  to  partake  of  '  un  brodo,  e 
qudt-cota?  and  startled  us  by  the  immense  dinner  of  which 
we  were  called  to  partake.  Night  closed  in  before  we  per- 
ceived the  shadowy  forms  of  the  buildings  of  Aquila.  We 
intended  to  have  slipped  into  the  town  unperceived,  and 
avoid  the  Governor's  house,  there  being  in  Aquila  an  inn, 
which  in  no  other  place  after  Bieti  was  to  be  found ;  but  a 
servant  of  the  Governor  (Prince  Capece  Zurla)  was  sta- 
tioned at  the  gate  to  show  us  the  way,  and  therefore  we  saw 
no  way  of  avoiding  this  trqppa  gentilezxa,  which  we  had  been 
far  from  intending  to  bring  upon  ourselves :  but  it  seems 
that  instead  of  the  simple  notice  to  be  given  to  the  Custom 
house  to  let  our  horses  pass  freely,  orders  had  been  sent  to 
all  possible  officers  under  government  to  assist  and  further 
our  progress,  which  they  interpreted  into  receiving,  lodging, 
and  feeding  us.  If  we  could  have  guessed  beforehand  that 
the  Neapolitan  government  would  have  been  to  this  degree 
obliging,  we  could  never  have  made  up  our  minds  to  give  all 
the  quantity  of  trouble  we  thus  occasioned :  but  as  we  had 
not  the  fault  upon  our  consciences,  and  as  we  had  health  and 


388    LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OP  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


spirits  to  go  through  with,  the  undertaking,  we  enjoyed  the 
opportunity  of  taking  a  view  of  Italian  manners  and  cha- 
racter, such  as  no  other  set  of  circumstances  could  have 
afforded.  The  Prince  Capece  Zurla  was  fortunately  alone, 
his  Principessa  having  gone  to  visit  a  married  daughter: 
he  gave  us  an  apartment  which  he  had  fitted  up  for  the 
King  when  he  came  last  summer,  and  scarcely  could  he 
have  treated  the  King  himself  with  more  attention  or  a 
more  sumptuous  ceremonial.  When  we  came  out  of  our 
rooms  in  the  morning  between  7  and  8  o'clock,  he  was 
already  in  the  ante-room  waiting  for  us,  and  after  giving 
us  breakfast,  he  went  about  with  us  to  see  sights  the  whole 
of  the  first  day,  which  put  us  into  utter  despair,  and  we 
told  him  we  must  the  day  after  proceed  on  our  journey. 
But  ho  made  such  a  point  of  our  staying  a  second  day,  that 
we  gave  way,  on  condition  of  his  not  interrupting  his  cus- 
tomary occupations.  We  should  indeed  have  been  sorry  to 
leave  Aquila  after  only  one  day's  stay,  for  it  is  a  most  inte- 
resting town,  full  of  fine  architecture  and  fine  pictures,  and 
in  a  most  striking  situation,  on  an  elevated  plain  of  the 
finest  forms, — not  a  dead  flat,  but  full  of  undulation  and 
highly  cultivated,  bounded  by  hills  of  exquisite  outlines, 
not  rugged,  but  covered  with  short  fine  grass  for  sheep, 
behind  and  above  which  tower  the  barren  summits  of 
the  Gran  Sasso  d'ltalia,  the  Majella,  and  other  of  the 
highest  of  the  southern  Apennines.  We  were  guided  on 
the  second  day  by  the  Marchese  Dragonetti  and  the  Mar- 
chesi  Torres,  who  had  also  been  of  the  party  the  day 
before :  the  former  was  an  old  acquaintance,  and  is  a  very 
superior  man,  of  talents  and  acquirements  most  astonishing, 
considering  the  absence  of  all  advantages  under  wliich  he 


I 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  389 

has  laboured — except  indeed  that  greatest  of  all  advan- 
tages, the  dosire  of  improvement,  and  the  consciousness  of 
surrounding  ignorance.  The  two  brothers  dea  Torres  are 
much  more  dea  noble*  da  Province,  but  intelligent  and  « <-l  I 
informed  as  to  everything  that  has  come  within  the  sphere 
of  their  observation,  and  obliging  beyond  description. 
Both  they  and  Dragonetti  are  of  Spanish  origin,  and  Aquila 
altogether,  the  manner  of  our  reception,  and  the  high 
ceremonial  in  deportment  and  language,  reminded  me  of 
descriptions  of  Spain  in  former  times.  The  Prince  Capeco 
Zurls,  for  instance,  proposed  to  return  from  a  drive  by 
saying, — 'Adesso,  se  comanda,  torneremo  a  two-  stw,'  n 
ing  his  own  house, — and  the  des  Torres  in  tailing  leave, 
and  in  urging  our  return  to  Aquila,  to  make  a  Iwigor  st.iv 
said,  '  Si  ricordera  che  avra  sempre  in  Aquila  una  ma  casa 
almeno  una  capanna! '  meaning  the  Palazzo  Torres. 
During  those  two  days,  we  went  from  one  fine  church, 
from  one  fine  painting,  to  another,  and  returning  within 
doors  when  it  was  dark,  had  such  French  cookery  and 
French,  wines,  that  it  was  a  matter  of  alarm  for  both 
grown-up  people  and  children,  for  all,  as  you  may  sup- 
pose, were  famishing.  In  our  second  day's  sight- see  ing 
we  were  introduced  to  the  house  of  the  Marchcse  Drago- 
netti, and  kindly  received  by  his  handsome  pleasing  wife, 
who  in  the  desire  to  be  hospitable,  ordered  ices  for  us, 
when,  being  extenuated  with  fatigue  and  hunger,  a  morsel 
of  bread  was  the  luxury  intensely  longed  for;  as  Kestncr 
observed  afterwards,  the  offer  of  ices  under  such  circum- 
stances was  like  '  giving  one's  stomach  a  cruel  box  on 
the  ear.' 

"On  Wednesday,  the  10th,  we  got  under  weigh,  and 


390         LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEX. 

thought  that  at  last  we  should  levare  Vincomodo  from  our 
good  Prince  :  but  he  having  a  journey  of  a  few  miles  to 
make,  to  inspect  some  public  works  going  on  in  his  pro- 
vince, declared  he  should  go  with  us  part  of  the  day  in  his 
own  carriage,  and  there  was  no  begging  off.    When  we 
got  to  the  end  of  the  first  post,  where  he  was  to  change 
horses,  he  represented  to  us  that  the  post-house,  where  our 
horses  were  to  bait,  was  an  uncomfortable  place  for  us  to 
wait  in,  and  insisted  upon  cramming  us  all  into  and  upon 
his  large  travelling  carriage,  and  carrying  us  on  eight  miles 
further,  to  Popoli,  where  the  Signor  Sindaco  (a  sort  of 
chief  magistrate)  fed  us  most  amply.     Popoli  is  in  a 
luxuriant  valley,  where  the  river  Aterno,  which  rises  in 
the  plain  of  Aquila,  becomes  a  considerable  stream.    From 
thence  we  drove  on  to  Bajano,  taking  leave  of  the  Prince, 
whose  last  care  of  us  left  the  most  pleasing  impression  of 
all,  for  it  seemed  an  act  of  freewill  and  kind-heartedness : 
at  Aquila  we  might  believe  him  to  be  only  actuated  by 
scrupulous  notions  of  his  dovere,  but  once  on  the  journey, 
as  he  had  made  all  possible  arrangements  for  us,  he  might 
with  a  safe  conscience  have  left  us  to  our  own  inventions. 
At  Bajano  we  were  lodged  and  most  hospitably  received 
at  the  house  of  a  giudice,  a  droll  old  bachelor,  who  was 
greatly  distressed  that  we  could  not  eat  all  the  supper  he 
had  prepared  for  us     Bajano  is  beautifully  situated  on  an 
elevated  plain,  the  site  of  the  ancient  Corfinium,  smaller 
than  that  of  Aquila,  surrounded  by  fine  mountains,  in 
which  the  Aterno  flows  in  a  deep  bed ;  but  its  waters  are  of 
no  avail  to  the  plain  of  Bajano,  being  on  a  so  much  lower 
level,  and  it  would  therefore  be  barren,  were  it  not  for  an 
antique  canal,  which  perforates  the  ridge  of  hills,  and 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  391 


brings  water  from  a  higher  valley,  bo  that  the  whole  sur- 
face is  carefully  irrigated  and  wonderfully  fertile.  From 
thence  we  crossed  the  lowest  part  of  the  ridge  of  moun- 
tains surrounding  the  Lake  of  Fucino,  called  le  Fureks, 
which  is  an  ancient  name  for  a  mountain-pass:  and 
descended  to  the  town  of  Pescina,  in  prospect  of  the  lake, 
at  two  miles  distance.  Here  a  most  comical  scene  took 
place  on  our  arrival.  We  were  going  to  Don  Giuseppe 
Melchiorri,  an  antiquarian  friend  of  some  friends  of  ours, 
who  expected  us,  and  came  to  meet  us :  but  the  Sindaco 
and  the  Bishop  also  sent  emissaries  to  insist  upon  our 
coming  to  dine  with  Monsignor  Vescovo;  we  however 
made  good  our  entrance  into  the  house  of  Melchiorri,  but 
were  then  obliged  to  give  way,  and  go  and  eat  the 
Bishop's  dinner,  and  I  was  greatly  entertained  at  sitting 
by  the  side  of  a  Roman  Catholic  country  Bishop,  who  had 
probably  never  seen  such  a  number  of  heretics  together  in 
his  life  before.  He  was  a  venerable-looking  and  well-bred 
old  gentleman.  After  we  were  released  from  the  dinner, 
we  rode  with  Melchiorri  by  the  side  of  the  beautiful  lake, 
and  saw  some  antiquities,  less  worth  seeing  than  land, 
water,  and  sky,  and  came  back  to  endure  the  infliction  of  a 
great  supper.  Next  day  was  Friday,  and  we  supplicated 
Melchiorri  not  to  make  any  alteration  in  the  meagre  diet  of 
the  day  on  our  account,  but  he  replied — '  Sono  gli  Speziali 
che  hanno  gli  scrupoli,  io  no ' — and  I  fancy  was  glad  of  an 
excuse  for  not  eating  meagre,  for  he  had  served  in  the 
French  army  at  Marengo,  and  had  seen  the  world.  After 
visiting  the  site  of  the  ancient  Marubium,  and  riding  about 
near  the  lake,  we  returned  to  dinner  at  one  o'clock,  and  while 
we  were  in  the  middle  of  a  course  of  dishes  alternately  fish, 


392        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OP   BARONESS   BtJNSEN. 

fowl,  and  meat  (the  greatest  abomination  to  strict  Catholics), 
a  visit  was  announced  from  Monsignor  Vescovo,  who  must 
have  been  much  edified  by  the  spectacle :  this  misfortune 
might  hare  been  supposed  precluded,  as  Charles  had  taken 
care  to  call  upon  him  and  take  leave  that,  morning,  bat 
there  was  no  help,  and  be  came  in,  with  his  suite  of 
two  or  three  priests.  After  dinner,  we  made  our  escape 
with  difficulty  from  Pescina,  for  our  host  d<  clared  he 
required  a  month  to  show  us  the  antiquities  properly — 
altho'  to  judge  by  the  samples  he  did  show,  there  is  little 
remarkable  on  that  score  at  this  end  of  the  lt>ke — ani 
drove  on  to  Avezzono,  where  we  were  recommended  to  the 
Casa  Vattei,  by  Cardinal  Cappellettis,  the  Delegate  at 
Eieti,  Donna  Chiara  Mattei  being  his  cousin,  and  we  were 
glad  not  to  incomodarc  the  Sottc-Intendente.  From  the  house 
of  the  antiquarian  gentleman-farmer  and  former  officer  at 
Fescina,  our  removal  to  Avezzano  brought  us  into  a  new 
world ;  the  family  of  Mattei  were  thorough  gentlemen  and 
gentlewomen,  of  old-fashioned  formality,  but  not  awkward, 
and  their  house  was  a  palace,  in  every  respect  handsomely 
arranged:  and  it  was  to  be  felt  that  Donna  Chiara  managed 
her  own  house.  This  was  the  first  time  of  our  journey 
that  we  had  seen  apadrona  di  casa,  elsewhere  either  there 
was  no  such  thing,  or  she  kept  out  of  sight.  We  spent 
Saturday  in  seeing  the  Emissarium  of  Claudius,  which  a 
number  of  workpeople  aro  employod  in  excavating;  we 
entered  it  from  the  side  of  the  lake,  and  then  rode  over  the 
mountain  which  it  perforates,  to  see  its  outlet  in  the  deep 
valley  of  the  Liris,  afterwards  called  Oarigliano.  From 
this  side  the  excavation  has  been  effected  to  a  considerable 
distance,  but  the  point  of  difficulty  will  be  just  under  the 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  393 


summit  of  Monte  Salviano,  and  there  some  people  doubt 
whether  further  progress  will  be  possible,  and  others  do 
not  wish  it  should,  fearing  that  too  much  water  would  be 
drained  from  the  lake,  which  now  furnishes  fish  to  an 
immense  extent  of  inland  country,  and  thereby  supplies 
food,  and  the  means  of  earning  necessaries,  to  a  great 
multitude  of  the  poor  inhabitants  of  its  banks.  All  that 
it  is  to  be  wished  the  Emissary  should  effect,  would  be 
the  prevention  of  those  overflowings  of  the  lake,  taking 
place  at  intervals  of  centuries,  which  occasioned  its  original 
construction  in  the  time  of  Claudius,  and  latterly,  in 
1816,  devastated  a  great  quantity  of  cultivated  land. 
Nothing  can  be  more  beautiful  than  the  valley  of  the 
Liris  above  the  outlet  of  the  Emissary.  I  made  a  sketch 
there  of  the  Liris  rushing  at  a  great  depth  at  the 
bottom  of  the  defile,  the  steep  sides  of  which  were  chiefly 
covered  with  chestnut  wood,  while  a  magnificent  mountain 
in  front  bore  the  name  of  Serra  di  Sanf  Antonio,  called 
Serra,  in  the  sense  of  closing  up  the  valley.  Much  was 
the  Signora  Mattei  astonished  at  our  admiration  of  the 
country,  and  when  I  showed  her  the  point  of  view  that  I 
had  delighted  to  draw,  she  observed — 'A  me!  mi  pare 
tanto  brutto ! '  The  next  morning  produced  a  real  em- 
barrassment :  it  was  clear  from  many  circumstances 
that  the  Mattei  had  no  idea  of  looking  upon  us  as 
anything  but  Roman  Catholics,  for  they  regarded  with 
a  sort  of  reverence  those  who  lived  in  sight  of  the  Pope 
and  could  give  accounts  of  him,  so  I  was  urgent  with  every 
member  of  the  family  to  be  up  early  as  well  as  myself 
and  to  mount  our  various  steeds  before  the  hour  of  mass ; 
but  as  everywhere  in  Italy  the  difficulty  was  great  of  get- 


394       LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

^ — — — ^— —^— — — — i -^—^— — — — ^^^— ^—  ' 

ting  off,  and  while  we  were  waiting  for  our  animals,  Ddh 
Ladifllao  Mattei  came  up  in  all  ceremony  to  ask,  'se 
vollesse  rostra  Eccellenza  esser  servita  di  sentir  la  messa,' 
the  fact  being  that  they  had  a  private  chapel  and  chaplain. 
Nothing  remained  for  it  but  to  plead  haste,  and  the 
threatening  condition  of  the  weather,  and  thus  hurriedly 
to  say  farewell  with  an  unpleasant  sensation  of  having  dis- 
appointed our  kind  host.  After  seeing  the  wonderful 
Cyclopean  fortifications  of  the  ancient  Alba,  we  proceeded 
to  Magliano,  where  we  were  most  kindly  received  by  Don 
Giovanbattista  Masciarello,  of  a  long-established  family  of 
patriarchal  proprietors,  having  6,000  sheep,  and  I  know 
not  how  many  head  of  cattle :  living  in  an  immense  palace 
full  of  expensive  furniture,  but  not  so  well  arranged  as 
Palazzo  Mattei,  because  Donna  Fepa  Masciarello  was  a 
sort  of  Roman,  a  native  of  Rieti,  whose  notion  of  life 
was  taking  her  ease,  and  nothing  was  in  order  but  what  her 
husband's  good  head  could  regulate ;  otherwise  she  was  a 
goodnatured  woman,  and  they  had  both  less  ceremonial 
and  more  natural  instinctive  good-breeding  than  we  had 
anywhere  found,  and  therefore  we  felt  quite  at  our  ease  in 
their  house.  The  day  we  spent  with  them,  snow  fell  on  the 
lofty  Yelino,  which  rises  close  to  Magliano,  and  we  visited 
under  umbrellas  the  ancient  Alba  Fucinense— a  hill  arti- 
ficially levelled  into  three  terraces  with  fortifications  far 
older  than  the  Roman  time.  From  Magliano  we  saw  at  a 
distance  the  plain  of  Tagliacozzo,  and,  on  the  slope  of  the 
hill,  the  church  of  Santa  Maria  della  Yittoria,  built  by 
Charles  of  Anjou  to  commemorate  his  victory.  In  that 
battle,  which  crushed  the  descendants  of  the  great  Emperor 
Frederick,  seven  members  of  the  great  Ghibelline  family 


SOMAN   SUNSHINE.  395 


of  Capyx  or  Capece  were  present :  these  the  Ouelfs  showed 
particular  zeal  in  destroying,  and  six  fell,  but  the  seventh 
being  only  a  boy,  was  concealed  from  the  pursuers.  From 
this  boy  seven  families  called  Capece  have  descended :  one 
was  that  of  Capece  Zurla  our  hospitable  host  at  Aquila, 
another  that  of  Capece  Latro,  Archbishop  of  Tarento,  a 
fine  old  gentleman  whom  we  saw  at  Naples.  It  was  he 
who  had  the  large  Angora  cat  called  Portaleone,  who  used 
to  sit  on  a  particular  stool  and  cushion  close  to  his  master, 
and  whose  manner  of  receiving  strangers  was  supposed  to 
influence  the  estimation  in  which  they  would  be  held. 

"The  16th  and  17th  October  we  spent  in  crossing  the 
mountains  where  there  never  yet  was  a  road,  yet,  in 
one  of  the  many  villages  of  the  Cicolana  we  were  re- 
ceived by  an  ancient  feudal  lord,  not  only  with  hospitality, 
but  luxury.  Our  guide  was  a  smuggler  by  profession, 
who  on  being  asked  whether  he  knew  the  road,  said 
by  day  he  had  never  passed  it,  but  often  enough  by 
night.  We  were  expected  to  stay  at  the  house  of  a  land- 
owner in  a  village  called  San  Pietro,  but  it  was  resolved 
to  ignore  this  invitation,  and  we  rode  straight  on  un- 
challenged, to  Eieti.  Our  intended  host  has  since  been 
in  Rome,  and  when  I  answered  his  eager  questions  as 
to  our  route  and  party,  and  described  our  numbers  as 
consisting  of  three  gentlemen  and  myself,  with  four  boys 
of  different  ages,  a  manservant,  and  a  guide  of  the  country, 
mounted  in  part  on  horses,  the  boys  on  donkeys,  myself  on 
an  English  saddle  and  in  an  English  riding-dress,  he 
.started  up  exclaiming  that  then  indeed  his  messengers  had 
seen  us,  for  he  had  placed  one  at  each  end  of  the  village, 
but  they  had  brought  him  word  that  no  signori  whatever 


i 


dyo        LIFE   ASD    LETTERS   OF    BAKONESS    BUNSEN. 

had  passed,  but  only  a  company  of  strolling  players— 
wmediante  di  campagna !  "We  came  homo  from  Kieti  by 
Terni,  that  I  might  Bee  the  waterfall,  -which  wo  did  in  the 
greatest  perfection,  with  the  finest  weather,  the  finest  tints, 
and  tho  heath  in  blossom.  On  Friday  the  19th  we  were 
in  Borne  again,  after  a  journey  without  any  disaster  and 
haying  found  the  Kestner's  the  best  of  travelling  com- 
panions." 

"  12  Jan.,  1833. — The  old  year  closed  upon  me,  my  own 
Mother,  and  the  new  year  began,  only  too  well,  in  fullness 
of  blessings,  and  with  a  sensation  of  satisfaction,  a  con- 
sciousness of  present  comfort  and  enjoyment,  of  the  degree 
of  which,  if  I  could  give  an  idea,  I  might  [strange  to  say) 
on  one  ground  be  afraid  of  doing  so,  lest  you  should  sus- 
pect mo  of  being  indifferent  to  the  one  circumstance  of 
distress  in  our  present  situation.  But  as  you  will  not 
Buspect  me  of  such  indifference,  I  trust  this  statement  of 
feelings  will  be  a  matter  of  unmixed  comfort  to  you,  and 
perhaps  even  tend  to  communicate  to  your  mind  that  hope 
for  the  future  with  which  mine  is  filled.  Amongst  the 
wishes,  for  the  gratification  of  which  I  felt  most  urgent, 
and  in  which  I  could  allow  myself  to  be  urgent,  during 
those  three  last  hours  of  the  old  year,  in  which  Charles 
and  I  sate  together  and  for  the  most  part  silent,  was  that 
my  Mother's  mind  might  be  relieved  about  our  worldly 
condition  :  and  I  feel  as  if  that  prayer  would  be  granted. 
The  removal  of  all  embarrassment  m  circumstances  is  one 
of  those  thinps  for  which.  I  dare  not  ask  in  prayer :  I  can 
ask,  and  do,  thut  I  and  mine  may  be  provided  for  the 
future,  ns  we  hare  been  in  the  past,  with  all  that  is  need- 
ful ;  roliof  will  come  when  it  it  good  for  me.     For  my  dear 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  397 


children's  advance  in  the  course  of  the  last  year  I  cannot 
be  sufficiently  thankful." 

"Rome,   5  March,   1833. — This  winter  has  granted  us 
much  social  enjoyment.    Lady  Baffles  is  the  widow  of  the 
Governor  of  Java,  and  is  one  of  our  new  acquaintance  of 
the  winter  who  will  not  be  blended  in  the  mass  of  those 
seen  for  a  moment  and  thought  of  no  more :  the  combined 
impression  produced  by  her  manner,  countenance,  and  con- 
versation, prepares  one  to  believe,  or  even  guess  before- 
hand, all  that  is  great  and  good  attributed  to  her.     She 
brought  us  a  letter  from  Madame  de  Stael,  whom  she  had 
known  long  and  well  at  Geneva.     She  has  an  only  child,  a 
girl  of  twelve  years  old,  the  wreck  of  a  large  family  which 
fell  a  sacrifice  to  the  climate  of  Java.    Mr.  Julius  Hare, 
one  of  the  translators  of  Mr.  Niebuhr's  Roman  History,  has 
been  here,  and  is  a  most  sterling  person ;  we  have  also  seen 
much  of  Mr.  Walter  Kerr  Hamilton,  a  nephew  of  the  Mr. 
Hamilton  whom  we  saw  in  Borne  many  years  ago  on  his 
way  back  from  being  minister  at  Naples :  and  he  with  his 
cousin  Mr.  Farquhar,  and  Mr.  Hare  with  his  travelling 
companion  Mr.  Worsley,  came  to  us  many  an  evening, 
when  there  was  no  other  person  present  but  M.  TurguenefF, 
who  had  been  Minister  of  State  under  the  Emperor  Alex- 
ander, but  is  now  a  voluntary  exile  from  his  native  country, 
owing  to  the  implication  of  his  brother  in  the  conspiracy 
against  Nicholas.     He  is  a  person  whom  it  would  take 
pages  to  describe,  so  little  does  he  belong  to  any  of  the 
common  denominations  of  society:  a  Tartar  Prince,  and 
looking  like  one,  yet  of  the  most  polished  manners,  and 
most  consummate  talent  for  conversation ;  knowing  almost 
everything,  having  read  almost  every  book,  having  been  in 


69b        LIFE   AND    LETTERS  OP   BARONESS   BUNSES. 

almost  every  species  of  society,  having  worked  his  way 
through  all  sorts  of  opinions,  and  yet  retaining  an  unspoiled 
taste  for  what  is  good,  and  an  unwearied  longing  for  what 
is  best.  How  much  I  could  tell  you  of  hrm  that  would  he 
interesting  as  a  picture  of  human  nature !  We  have  also 
had  great  pleasure  in  the  society  of  two  Americans,  one  of 
the  Episcopalian  Church,  and  one  a  Baptist — Mr.  Burgess 
of  Providenoe,  and  Mr.  Chase  of  Newton  near  Boston. 
One  person  of  whom  we  see  a  good  deal  is  the  Grand 
Duchess  of  Baden — Stephanie Beauharnais:  she  is  a  widow, 
and  is  here  for  the  winter  with  her  very  pleasing  daughter. 
She  has  remains  of  beauty,  and  is  in  manners  and  conver- 
sation very  attractive ;  she  has  the  tact  of  a  Frenchwoman 
in  softening  off  form,  instead  of  liking  it  aa  a  parraive 
might  be  expected  to  do.  She  sings  very  sweetly,  and  is 
full  of  talent ;  and  her  conduct  thro'  life  in  a  difficult  posi- 
tion, having  been  forced  by  Napoleon  on  a  family  that  did 
not  wish  to  be  degraded  by  an  alliance  with  his  jUU  adoptive, 
is  said  to  have  been  thoroughly  meritorious.  Dear  Mrs. 
Stuart  and  Lord  and  Lady  Northland  are  on  the  point  of 
departure:  they  have  been  a  great  pleasure  to  us." 

"fratcati,  11  Juiu,  1833. — Xo-day  is  my  Mary's  birth- 
day and  she  is  four  years  old,  and  a  most  engaging  creature ; 
I  look  upon  her  with  a  singular  and  indescribable  com- 
passion, for  she  seems  to  possess  the  gift  of  attraction — 
every  stranger  takes  notice  of  her,  and  she  delights  in 
being  taken  notice  of :  she  can  interest,  please,  and  obtain 
caresses,  without  the  slightest  effort,  and  therefore,  how 
doubly  hard  her  task  to  attain  to  moral  worth — to  doing 
right  for  the  sake  of  right ! 

"  We  continued  to  see  a  great  deal  of  If  r.  Hare  till  be  left 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  399 

Borne,  and  with  continually  increasing  regard  and  esteem ; 
he  is  now  gone  straight  back  to  England  to  settle  down  for 
life  in  a  country  Hying  in  Sussex  in  the  gift  of  his  family. 
He  is  a  great  friend  and  admirer  of  Br.  Arnold.  Our  old 
friend  and  favourite,  Mr.  Christopher  Wordsworth,  passed 
through  Borne  on  his  way  back  from  Greece,  and  we  saw 
him  with  much  pleasure.  On  our  return  from  a  most  in- 
teresting little  tour  to  Toscanella,  Yiterbo,  and  Orvieto,  a 
new  social  gratification  awaited  us : — our  friend  Turgueneff 
had  returned  from  Naples,  accompanied  by  a  very  remark- 
able person,  Joukovsky,  celebrated  in  Russia  as  a  poet  and 
in  every  respect  intellectually  distinguished,  who  has  been 
some  years  tutor  to  the  young  Hereditary  Qrand  Duke,* 
and  greatly  favoured  by  the  Emperor  and  Empress,  with- 
out having  become  a  courtier.  Hia  health  being  very  pre- 
carious, he  had  been  allowed  leave  of  absence  to  travel,  but 
being  in  haste  to  return  to  his  important  post,  he  had  but 
very  few  days  for  Borne,  and  those  few  days  Charles  helped 
him  to  enjoy  most  thoroughly,  in  showing  him  objects  of 
interest,  which  he  had  looked  at  before  in  part,  but  without 
the  consciousness  of  all  that  was  to  be  seen  and  felt  in 
them.  He  has  much  of  the  manly,  kind-hearted  simplicity 
of  manner  of  Walter  Scott,  with  of  course  difference  of 
national  characteristics;  in  conversation  perfectly  unpre- 
tending, but  yet  never  letting  fall  a  commonplace  word ; 
and  I  have  seldom  met  with  a  foreigner,  to  whom  I  felt 
myself  from  the  first  so  much  drawn,  as  if  there  was  in  him 
nothing  foreign  or  strange.  Turgueneff  and  Joukovsky 
and  a  very  distinguished  Gorman  officer  in  the  service  of 
Russia,  de  Keutern,  were  with  us  the  other  day,  with  Thor- 
*  Now  the  Emperor  Alexander, 


400        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BDNSEN. 

waldsen,  Cornelius,  and  Overbeck — the  three  first  artiste 
of  the  age :  it  was  one  of  those  remarkable  combinations 
which  scarcely  any  place  but  Borne  can  offer.  All  were 
very  animated,  and  increased  the  social  spirits  of  the  others, 

• 

so  that  it  was  a  day  to  remember.  The  Bussians  I  have 
mentioned  have  been  with  us  most  evenings,  and  often  in 
a  morning,  and  besides  a  sculptor,  Woltreck,  who  has 
wanted  to  model  some  of  the  children,  and  as  it  is  not  an 
order ,  but  a  thing  done  for  his  own  pleasure  and  my  profit 
in  the  end,  I  could  not  send  him  away. 

"  I  have  lately  read  the  '  Meditations  de  Fenelon '  with 
great  satisfaction :  few  indeed  are  the  passages  exclusively 
for  Catholics,  it  is  truly  a  Christian  book." 

"24  August,  1833. — It  is  little  use  beginning  upon  so 
interminable  a  subject  as  Madame  d'Arblay's  nonsense* — 
but  surely  such  a  quantity  of  unmixed  nonsense  never  was 
written  before  as  her  book.  Still,  I  do  not  wonder  that 
people  have  found  it  entertaining,  for  so  did  I,  if  reading  a 
thing  intently,  eagerly,  and  greedily,  being  provoked  and  in 
a  rage  at  every  page,  can  be  called  being  entertained.  The 
book  is  gossip  itself,  though  not  clever  gossip :  and  gossip 
is  the  great  thing  needful  for  pleasing  people.  If  anybody 
— a  valet  or  a  lady's-maid — will  in  any  way  write  down  any- 
thing that  they  have  heard  and  seen  of  such  characters  as 
Madame  d'Arblay  treats  of,  it  will  always  be  sure  to  be 
eagerly  read,  as  long  as  there  is  a  presumption  that  the 
writer  does  not  wilfully  deceive,  and  gives  the  objects  with 

*  Madame  d'Arblay  had  been  well  known  to  Madame  Bunsen  in 
early  life,  through  her  mother's  intimate  acquaintance  with  her  as 
Misb  Barney,  when  residing  in  her  girlhood  .at  Windsor  with  Mrs. 
Delany,  by  whom  the  authoress  of  "  Evelina  "  was  first  introduced  to 
the  notice  of  tho  Court. 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  401 


all  the  truth,  of  which  the  medium  is  capable.     But  will 
you  explain  to  me,  my  Mother,  how  the  Dean  and  Chapter 
of  'Westminster  could  admit  that  blasphemous  unchristian 
epitaph,  with  which  she  in  so  self-satisfied  a  manner  winds 
up  lier  book  ?  Generally  speaking,  everything  in  the  work 
may  be  tolerated  and  swallowed  (although  a  good  gulp  it 
would  often  require)  except  her  defacing  the  subject  of 
religion :  to  be  sure  she  meddles  with  it  little  enough,  but 
when  she  does,  it  is  in  a  manner  that  makes  one  shudder, 
to  think  that  a  person  so  near  her  grave  should  see  even  in 
that  nothing  but  a  matter  to  turn  a  sentence  on,  and  make  a 
sentimental  face  about.  Worst  and  most  painful  of  all,  the 
letter  to  '  mon  ami '  about  Dr.  Burney's  last  moments — 
when  she  regrets  not  having  been  able  to  cheer  the  soul 
passing  from  time  to  eternity,  by  making  him  understand 
the  cause  of  the  bonfires  and  illuminations  for  the  victory 
of    the   Allies — gives,    unconsciously,    a    soul-harrowing 
picture  of  a  human  being,   at  the  extremest  verge  of 
life,   yet  clinging  to  mortality,    and  agonised  with  the 
physical  fear  of  dissolution,  incapable  himself  of  spiritual- 
ising his  thoughts  or  feelings,  and  having  no  one  to  help 
him  to  a  happier  frame  ! — while  the  image  with  which  she 
wishes  and  endeavours  to  harrow  up  the  soul,  is  that  of 
herself,  called  upon  most  inconveniently  to  grieve  for  the 
death  of  a  father,  just  when  she  wanted  him  to  rejoice  with 
her  in  the  destruction  of  Napoleon  and  return  of  her  hus- 
band.   In  short,  surely  never  was  such  self-idolatry  as 
hers !  and  we  might  be  tempted  to  pity  her  for  having  been 
exposed,  with  so  weak  a  head,  to  the  intoxication  of  so 
much  applause,  were  it  not  for  the  proof  she  gives  of  indis- 
cTiminating  appetite :  being  as  self-satisfied  in  the  homage 

VOL.  I.  D  D 


402        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

of  Pamela,  and  taking  it  as  much  for  sterling  coin,  as  in 
the  praise  of  Burke  or  Johnson.  But  she  is  herself  une 
comedienne,  nothing  else :  her  mind  was  evidently  formed 
by  the  impression  Garrick  made  upon  her :  she  had  the 
gift  in  youth  of  entertaining  people :  and  the  equally  useful 
gift  (which  she  has  lost  in  age)  of  not  committing  herself 
and  discovering  the  poverty  of  the  substratum ;  and  thus 
alone  can  I  account  for  a  character  so  insignificant  having 
been  so  valued.  But  I  wish  I  could  talk  instead  of  write : 
my  Mother  would  help  me  to  construe  her,  which  I  am 
very  curious  to  do." 

"  Fraecati,  14  Oct.,  1833. — To-morrow  we  intend  setting 
off  on  a  scrambling  tour  to  the  neighbouring  mountains,  of 
which  I  greatly  enjoy  the  thoughts :  we  do  not  intend  to  be 
away  more  than  eight  days,  but  when  we  return  we  shall 
directly  pack  and  return  to  Some,  as  to  which  I  feel  as  if 
I  was  about  to  plunge  up  to  the  neck  in  a  torrent,  where  I 
should  have  to  struggle  hard  to  keep  swimming  for  a  given 
number  of  months,  until  I  reached  this  quiet  shore  again. 
We  returned  on  the  11th  from  a  three  days'  expedition  to 
Cora  and  Norba  in  the  Yolscian  mountains,  by  way  of 
Yelletri,  as  far  as  which  place  we  went  on  Wednesday  in 
the  carriage,  that  is,  Charles  and  myself,  and  the  four 
boys :  M.  de  Sydow  and  M.  Abeken  accompanying  us  on 
horseback.  At  Yelletri  we  procured  horses  to  ride  to 
Cora,  which  has  no  carriage  road  as  yet*  I  requested 
that  mine  might  be  at  least  a  quiet  horse,  and  was  assured 
that  it  belonged  to  a  convent  of  nuns,  which  was  to  be 

*  There  is  now  a  railway  to  Yelletri  and  an  omnibus  to  Cora  !— so 
that  this  exquisitely  beautiful  place  may  be  visited  in  one  day  as  an 
excursion  from  Rome. 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  4(M 

taken  as  a  proof  of  good  education  :  I  must  say  from  this 
example  I  should  be  inclined  to  trust  the  proof  in  future, 
for  the  horse  was  a  pattern  of  good  behaviour.  The  boya 
were  happy  beyond  expression  at  riding  14 -miles.  "We 
slept  at  Cora,  after  having  seen  a  beautiful  temple  in  great 
preservation,  and  other  remains  of  antiquity,  and  the  next 
day  undertook  a  ride  to  the  ruins  of  Norba,  a  Cyclopean 
city  in  a  most  picturesque  situation,  by  a  most  dan-. 
mountain  track,  in  which  however  the  horses  kept  their 
feet  admirably:  but  we  returned  by  the  town  of  Ninfa  hi 
the  plain,  by  a  longer  but  safer  road,  having  had  enough 
of  the  sensation  of  danger.  Friday  morning  we  rode  book 
to  Velletri,  by  the  same  rich  and  beautiful  country  by 
which  we  came. 

"  There  is  no  describing  how  engaging  my  Theodore 
becomes :  I  certainly  have  valued  the  other  children  enough 
as  babies,  but  I  think  nothing  was  ever  so  delightful  u 
he  is." 

"  Rome,  4  Dec,  1833. — Not  to  have  written  before  is  ono 
of  the  privations  that  I  have,  and  must  have,  in  the  bustle 
of  a  Roman  winter.  But  when  I  apeak  of  bustle,  you  must 
not  suppose  the  causes  of  the  bustle  to  be  disagreeable.  As 
usual  in  the  winter  at  Borne,  the  number  of  things  to  be 
done  makes  quiet  impossible,  and  enjoyment  difficult,  but 
yet  much  is  enjoyed.  We  have  the  most  delicious  season, 
and  I  have  been  often  in  the  garden,  having  it  put  in 
order,  and  making  a  hedge,  or  rather  reforming  a  hedge 
which  I  have  replanted  with  roses,  oleanders,  Tolta- 
merias,  and  geraniums:  it  is  not  to  be  described  how 
geraniums  have  flourished  in  the  garden  in  the  short  time 
I  have  had  it  to  myself — a  set  of  short  slips  put  in 


404       LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

in  March  have  become  almost  trees  in  the  course  of  the 
summer. 

"I  have  strength  now  for  all  I  have  to  do,  go  from  one 
thing  to  another  throughout  the  day,  and  hare  no  need  to 
lie  down :  and  in  the  evening,  if  we  are  at  home  and  have 
not  too  many  visitors,  I  finish  up  my  sketches.  For  this  I 
had  a  bit  of  praise  from  Mr.  Clifford  which  greatly  pleased 
me.  The  day  after  he  had  seen  me  thus  employed,  he 
said,  '  How  I  like  that  making  the  most  of  odd  times !  it 
is  what  everybody  ought  to  do,  and  what  /never  do !  and 
thus  I  have  done  nothing,  and  learnt  nothing,  in  my  life.' 
Mr.  Clifford's  being  here  is  a  great  pleasure  to  us :  he  is 
really  a  delightful  person,  entering  into  everything  and 
enjoying  everything  like  a  child.  Lady  Northland  and 
dear  Mrs.  Stuart*  have  also  been  here  since  the  2nd 
November,  and  Lady  Northland  f  has  been  kind  enough 
to  desire  me  to  be  godmother  to  her  baby,  who  is  to  be 
christened  to-morrow." 

"  14  Bee.,  1833. — I  have  been  writing  to  the  Comte  de  la 
Ferronay s J  for  a  letter  which  may  have  influence  on  the  fate 
of  M.  Eio.§    I  wish may  know  in  some  measure  who 

*  The  Hon.  Mrs.  Stuart,  a  very  early  friend  of  Mrs.  Waddington, 
daughter  of  Lady  Juliana  Penn  (see  Chapter  III.)  and  widow  of  the 
Primate  of  Ireland. 

f  Afterwards  Countess  of  Itanfurly,  daughter  of  the  Primate  of 
Ireland  and  Mrs.  Stuart. 

J  Described  in  the  beautiful  volumes  of  his  daughter,  Mrs.  Augus- 
tus Craven,  called  the  "  Recit  dune  Soeur." 

(  A.  F.  Bio,  the  well-known  author  of  "  The  Poetry  of  Christian 
Art."  He  had  gone  to  Llanover  with  letters  from  the  Buusens 
requesting  Mrs.  Waddington  to  give  him  introductions  which  might 
facilitate  his  Welsh  studies.  In  Wales  he  made  the  acquaintance  of 
Apollonia  (aunt  of  the  present  Mr.  Herbert  of  Uanarth)  to  whom  he 
was  eventually  married. 


ROMAN  SUNSHINE.  405 


and  what  la  Ferronays  is — that  they  may  be  assured  that 
nobody's  approbation  could  have  more  decisive  weight.  He 
is  the  only  Frenchman  I  ever  saw  who  had  consummate 
English  dignity  of  appearance  and  manner,  and  this  ap- 
pearance in  him  is  the  shining  forth  of  the  inward  charac- 
ter. How  high  he  was  in  office  under  the  former  govern- 
ment is  probably  known,  and  how  uniformly  conscientious 
all  his  acts  of  public  and  private  life.  The  last  period  of  his 
public  life  was  being  French  ambassador  at  Borne,  and  he 
gave  up  the  post  as  a  point  of  honour  after  the  Revolution 
of  the  Three  Days:  though  a  devoted  adherent  of  the  old 
Bourbons,  he  is  a  yet  better  Frenchman:  and  though  a 
man  of  very  decided  religious  opinions,  he  never  was  an 
ultra  in  religion  any  more  than  in  politics. 

"  Our  last  winter's  friend,  TurguSneff,  the  Russian  of 
whom  we  saw  so  much  with  such  pleasure,  is  just  returned, 
but  for  a  short  time :  as  yet  there  has  been  no  other  person 
of  the  sort  that  greatly  interests  us,  and  whom  we  wish 
daily  to  see,  except  Mr.  Clifford,  who  is  the  picture  of 
enjoyment.  "We  have  nobody  like  Mr.  Julius  Hare,  or 
Mr.  Kerr  Hamilton,  or  Mr.  Christopher  Wordsworth  as  yet. 
Yesterday  however  I  had  a  great  pleasure — seeing  again 
Lady  Boyle,  formerly  Mrs.  Courtenay  Boyle.  She  received 
me  most  affectionately  and  has  always  the  same  engaging 
manner.  She  had  her  youngest  daughter  with  her,  and 
her  son  Captain  Boyle ;  her  daughter  the  Maid  of  Honour 
will  join  her  in  the  spring." 

"  Rome,  31  Bee.,  1833.— On  this  last  day  of  the  year  I 
begin  a  letter,  before  sunrise,  to  my  own  dearest  Mother, 
who  will  easily  guess  that  the  close  of  the  present  year  is 
unusually  solemn  to  me,  but  to  detail  all  that  nils  my  heart 


j 


406        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUS  SEN. 


at  this  time  would  take  up  pages.  I  look  back  upon  a 
year  most  particularly  marked  with  blessings,  in  which  I 
have  been  allowed  a  quantity  of  enjoyment,  and  growing 
satisfactions  of  many  kinds — first  and  foremost  that  of 
more  and  more  loving  and  approving  him  whom  I  have  so 
long  loved  and  approved,  whose  character  ever  rises  upon 
me,  and  continually  'works  itself  clear,  and  as  it  runs, 
refines.'  Then,  the  improvement  of  all  my  four  boys, 
which  in  different  ways  and  degrees  is  equally  certain ;  in 
particular  the  increase  of  character  in  my  dear  Henry,  who 
is  the  only  one  at  all  maturing.  Then  the  thriving  and 
promising  state  of  the  twins  is  a  great  joy — and  if  the  three 
little  girls  are  not  yet  all  that  I  wish  them  to  be,  yet  must 
I  not  be  unmindful  of  the  text — *  Shall  I  receive  good  from 
the  hand  of  the  Lord,  and  should  I  not  also  receive  evil?' 
and  receiving  from  the  hand  of  the  Lord  means  receiving 
thankfully,  as  what  is  a  certain  good,  because  coming  from 
Him,  although  it  may  seem  '  no  way  joyous,  but  rather 
grievous. ' 

"  We  have  had  a  great  pleasure  in  the  arrival  of  Mr.  and 
Lady  Emily  Pusey,  who  are  more  like  a  brother  and  sister 
than  merely  friends.  This  evening  we  are  to  part  with 
Abeken,  who  has  been  with  us  ever  since  the  departure  of 
Ambrosch." 

"7th  Jan.,  1884.— And  now  I  will  let  you  know  that 
Neukomm  is  come  back  at  last,  and  the  pleasure  is  very  great 
of  having  him  here.  We  have  found  him  a  quiet  corner 
and  a  writing-table  in  Charles's  room,  and  he  has  composed 
one  of  a  series  of  Practices  for  the  organ  this  morning,  and 
since  dinner  has  been  explaining  to  me  the  grounds  of 
thorough-bass  :  in  short  he  is  already  in  full  activity  in  the 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  407 

house,  and  every  person  in  it  seems  to  feel  as  if  he  either 
had  been,  or  ought  to  have  been,  always  there.  Ho  is 
come  just  at  the  right  time,  to  animate  us  all  after  the 
departure  of  Abeken,  who  left  us  in  the  night  between  the 
old  and  new  year.  There  are  so  many  things  inefficiently 
and  superficially  detailed  in  my  letters,  my  own  Mother, 
which  yet  occupy  my  time,  thoughts,  and  feelings,  that  it 
is  no  wonder  amongst  others  that  you  should  have  heard 
so  little  of  Abeken:  of  whom  perhaps  I  might  have  men- 
tioned two  years  ago,  that  a  nephew  of  Charles's  must 
beloved  college  friend  was  come  to  Borne,  with  a  brilliant 
reputation  for  classical  attainments  and  abilities  in  every 
way,  who  had  been  from  the  first  moment  very  much  at 
home  in  our  house,  Charles  having  at  once  felt  him  to  be 
of  the  right  sort,  and  having  even  used  jokingly  the 
expression — '  Kestner  shall  not  be  the  only  person  that  has 
a  nephew — I  too  have  found  a  nipotino  for  myself.'  But 
I  must  admit  that  Charles  was  the  only  person  who  from 
the  first  justly  estimated  Abeken,  for  tho'  I  admired  his 
powers,  and  was  aware  of  his  superior  understanding, 
sterling  principles,  and  warm  affections,  I  could  not  for  a 
time  like  his  company,  because  he  overwhelmed  me  with 
his  superabundance:  having  in  a  high  degree  the  want  of 
tnct  of  many  fresh  fish  from  the  universities  (even  in  well- 
mannered  and  regularly  drilled  England)  and  never 
knowing  when  to  have  done  with  a  subject  that  interested 
him,  and  speaking  too  loud,  and  without  modulation. 
This  time  twelvemonth,  when  Ambrosch  was  about  to  leave 
us,  Charles  determined  to  ask  Abeken  to  nil  his  place  in 
our  house,  and  assist  him  in  the  care  of  the  boys;  tho 
whole  first  year  of  our  acquaintance,  spent  in  close  contact, 


408        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

having  continually  drawn  him  nearer  to  us.  He  accepted 
gladly,  tho*  utterly  objecting  to  receiving  any  other  re- 
muneration than  what  he  was  pleased  to  consider  as  such  in 
becoming  a  member  of  the  family.  During  the  year  that 
ho  has  thus  been  in  the  house,  his  instructions  to  the  boys 
have  been  invaluable,  and  not  less  invaluable  his  assist- 
ance to  Charles  in  every  possible  pursuit:  in  every  respect 
the  favourable  impression  he  made  at  first  has  been  con- 
firmed, and  the  roughnesses  that  at  first  disturbed  have 
been  wearing  off,  so  that  nobody  can  prize  him  more  than 
myself ;  and  as  he  likes  reading  aloud  in  the  evening,  I 
have  had  a  degree  of  pleasure  in  that  way  which  was 
quite  a  new  thing  to  me,  and  has  procured  me  a  good  deal 
more  leisure  for  drawing,  than  I  should  otherwise  have 
had,  for  if  he  had  not  read  aloud  to  me,  I  should  pro- 
bably have  thought  it  right  to  read  to  myself.  On  the 
journey  that  we  made  in  October,  the  people  with  whom 
we  lodged  used  to  take  Abeken  for  my  eldest  son  (which 
he  might  be  in  point  of  age)  and  it  struck  me  they  had 
well  hit  off  our  mutual  relation,  for  he  used  to  attend  to 
me,  and  consider  me  as  Henry  does,  and  it  has  long  seemed 
to  me  as  natural  to  think  of  his  pleasure  and  indulge  him, 
as  with  respect  to  my  dear  Henry.  He  had  long  chosen 
the  profession  of  a  clergyman,  and  Charles  obtained  some 
time  since  of  the  King  that  he  should  be  appointed  the 
successor  of  Tippelskirch,  who  will  leave  his  post  in  the 
spring :  Abeken  is  now  gone  to  Geneva,  to  study  the  state 
of  religious  feeling  and  opinion  there,  and  will  then  pro- 
ceed to  visit  his  family  at  Osnabruck,  but  will  meet  Charles 
at  Berlin,  and  return  hither  in  May.  As  a  substitute  for 
Abeken,  we  are  vory  fortunate  in  having  Kellennann,  a 


ROMAN   SUNSHINE.  409 


Dane  by  birth,  though  his  breeding  has  been  German,  a 
very  distinguished  scholar,  and  besides  a  man  of  principle 
and  character.  He  is  an  acquaintance  of  two  years' 
standing,  so  we  can  hardly  be  mistaken  in  our  estimation 
of  him,  and  it  is  a  great  comfort  to  me  to  think  I  shall 
have  an  efficient  person  to  manage  the  two  boys,  in 
Charles's  absence,  at  least  as  to  learning ;  for  they  have 
long  had  a  great  respect  as  well  as  liking  for  him.  But 
KeUermann  is  not  as  an  associate  what  Abeken  was,  and 
therefore  Neukomm  appears  the  more  a  person  to  fill  the 
void,  and  besides  comes  opportunely  as  an  additional  help 
to  me  to  avoid  thinking  of  the  parting  now  so  very  near." 


CHAPTER  X. 

LAST  YEAES  AT  ROME. 

M  Troth  is  as  impossible  to  be  soiled  by  any  outward  touch 
as  the  sunbeam." 

Miltox,  Doctrine  and  Diecipline  of  Divorce. 

TN  March,  1834,  Bunsen  set  out  for  Berlin,  taking 
"*■  with  him  his  two  elder  sons ;  Henry,  to  the  great 
school  at  Schulpf  orte,  of  which  one  of  the  masters  was 
Dr.  Schmieder,  late  chaplain  to  the  German  Protestant 
Chapel  at  Rome ;  and  Ernest,  to  the  military  college  at 
Berlin.  At  the  Prussian  capital  Bunsen  was  as  warmly 
received  as  ever  by  the  King  and  the  Crown-prince — but 
manifold  troubles  were  in  store  for  him,  through  the 
question  of  great  importance  for  Church  and  State, 
which  was  then  in  full  agitation — that  of  mixed  mar- 
riages. While,  according  to  the  law  of  Prussia,  a 
father  has  the  sole  right  over  the  education  of  his 
children,  so  that  all  stipulations  before  marriage  are 
forbidden ;  according  to  the  Roman  Catholic  Church,  no 
marriage  can  be  celebrated  unless  a  promise  is  given  that 
all  children  shall  be  brought  up  as  Roman  Catholics,  and 
in  the  newly  annexed  but  almost  entirely  Romanist 


IAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  411 

provinces  of  the  Rhine,  the  clergy  absolutely  refused  to 
perform  a  marriage  under  other  conditions.  While 
Leo  XII.  and  Pius  VIII.  lived,  the  court  of  Rome  was 
pacifically  disposed,  and  would  have  been  willing  to 
enjoin  priests  in  Germany  to  grant  their  passive  assist- 
ance in  case  of  a  mixed  marriage,  refusing  only  the 
usual  nuptial  benediction.  But,  in  an  evil  hour,  Prussia 
insisted  on  the  full  marriage  ceremonial ;  delay  ensued, 
and  the  chance  of  compromise  was  lost.  Thus,  on  his 
return  to  Rome,  the  feeling  shown  against  Bunsen  as 
representative  of  its  Protestant  antagonist  was  so  bitter, 
that  he  implored  to  be  released  from  a  position  which 
he  felt  to  be  scarcely  any  longer  tenable.  To  this  he 
at  that  time  received  the  flattering  reply  that  his 
services  at  the  court  of  Rome  were  indispensable  to  his 
country. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"Rome,  1  April,  1834.— On  the  13th  March  I  parted 
from  my  dear  boys  and  their  father.  My  own  Mother,  I 
believe  that  you  have  suffered  and  will  suffer  more  pain 
from  this  parting  than  I  have.  I  say  that  to  you,  who 
will  not  suspect  me  of  not  caring  for  our  boys,  and  who 
know  that  my  husband  is  the  thing  par  excellence  that  I 
live  for.  I  have  so  much  to  do,  so  much  more,  literally 
speaking,  than  I  can  do,  that  I  have  no  rest  for  thought, 
no  interval  for  dwelling  upon  what  is  painful ;  and  that  is 
what  stands  me  in  stead,  my  strength  would  be  worth 
nothing  if  it  was  to  come  to  a  combat  with  the  pain.  I 
cannot  help  going  into  Henry's  empty  room  on  some 


412        LIFE  ANT)  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

errand  or  other,  but  I  generally  get  away  without  a  tear. 
The  worst  thing  is,  not  remembering,  but  catching  myself 
at  forgetting :  the  other  day  I  called  to  Henry  at  dinner, 
and  was  only  reminded  by  the  sound  of  my  own  voice  what 
name  I  was  naming.  He  writes  to  me,  dear  boy,  that  he 
cannot  yet  believe  that  he  is  parted  from  me,  that  when  he 
packs  or  unpacks  he  thinks  'it  is  a  task  1  have  given  him 
to  do.' 

"  This  morning  at  six  o'clock  Neukomm  left  us.  These 
three  months'  intercourse  have  been  very  delightful  to  us, 
we  have  enjoyed  his  company  and  valued  his  character 
more  than  ever.  I  say  tee  in  full  plural,  for  all  our  friends 
and  associates  have  been  drawn  towards  Neukomm  as  we 
are  ourselves.  He  has  been  in  full  activity,  and  has  com- 
posed many  fine  things,  and  played  to  us  a  quantity  of  his 
compositions.  I  think  his  style  of  composition  ennobled 
and  improved  since  he  was  here  before :  the  oratorio  of 
Mount  Sinai  and  that  of  David  appear  to  me  splendid 
works  of  genius.    I  wish  I  could  hear  them  executed." 

"2  April. — This  is  my  dear,  dear  Henry's  birthday. 
My  Mother  will  remember  it.  0  how  thankful  I  am  to 
have  him  at  sixteen  what  he  is !  My  dear  Ernest  too,  my 
Mother  would  find  greatly  altered  to  his  advantage. 
Charles  the  less  has  been  very  good  since  his  brother's 
departure,  exerting  himself  to  fill  Henry's  place,  taking* 
care  of  the  babies,  liking  to  do  anything  for  them,  showing* 
the  greatest  alacrity  in  helping  me,  and  more  than  all, 
bearing  reproof  humbly  and  being  very  pains-taking  with 
Kellermann.  Doing  lessons  with  George  is  as  usual  my 
most  agreeable  occupation :  we  read  French  and  English, 
and  he  repeats  the  lessons  of  geography  to  mo  which  he 


LAST  TEARS  AT  ROME.  413 

used  to  receive  from  the  invaluable  Abeken ;  whom  we 
none  of  us  know  how  to  do  without,  I  as  little  as  anybody 
else  :  all  long  for  his  return,  though  when  he  returns  we 
cannot  have  as  much  of  his  time  and  company  as  we  had 
before,  because  he  will  have  to  take  upon  himself  the 
business  of  the  Chaplain  to  the  Legation. 

"  I  have  gone  through  worlds  of  thought  and  feeling 
since  I  sent  my  last  letter.  By  this  I  do  not  mean  dis- 
tress, but  subjects  which  take  up  one's  whole  mind  for  the 
time  being,  and  make  the  admeasurement  of  time  very 
difficult.  One  of  these  subjects  is  Mrs.  Augustus  Hare ;  I 
have  seen  her  much,  and  feel  that  it  is  no  common  con- 
nection  I  have  enjoyed  the  society  of  Mr.  and  Lady 

Emily  Fusey :  they  are  real  friends.  Good  and  sensible 
and  well-principled  people  are  often  alike  in  the  serious 
business  of  life,  but  in  the  choice  of  pleasures  and  recrea- 
tions there  is  a  grand  difference  between  people — theref ore 
with  the  Puseys  and  the  Hares  and  some  others,  I  can  gti 
on,  and  I  shall  always  get  on  and  come  nearer,  but  with 
others  I  am  at  a  stand-still  at  the  first  step." 

To  her  Son  Henry. 

"Home,  5  April,  1834. — My  dear,  dear  boy,  how  much  I 
have  thought  of  you  on  your  birthday !  That  day  will  have 
marked  the  period  of  the  greatest  change  in  life  that  you 
perhaps  ever  can  make,  at  least  the  most  absolute  change 
of  all  surrounding  circumstances.  I  have  prayed,  and  do 
pray,  that  God  may  be  with  you — that  you  may  feel  your- 
self ever  in  His  sight !  and  then  you  will  proceed  securely, 
whatever  trials  may  be  in  store  for  you  in  the  course  of 
life.     My  dear  boy,  this  separation  is  bitter,  and  yet  we 


J 


414        LIFE  AND    LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

must  not  forget  that  the  probabilities  are  that  we  pass  our 
lives  in  separation :  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  you  and 
your  Mother  should  ever  again  lire  much  together.  There- 
fore let  us  make  the  best  of  separation,  and  not  put  off 
communication  to  the  uncertain  time  of  meeting  again. 
Tell  me  always  as  much  as  you  can  of  -what  you  think  and 
feel,  my  own  dear  boy ;  that  is  often  matter  of  effort  in 
absence  and  distance  ;  but  it  is  difficult  to  begin  again  if 
once  discontinued :  and  if  long  discontinued,  estrangement 
is  almost  unavoidable.  Yet  you  must  not  take  time  from 
exercise  or  sleep  to  write  to  me,  and  your  daj  will  be 
taken  up  in  study.  But  I  wish  you  would  take  a  sheet  of 
paper,  and  write  a  bit  at  a  time,  just  when  you  have  time, 
and  6end  the  sheet  off  without  minding  whether  the  letter 
has  beginning,  middle,  or  end." 

"  6  May%  1834. — My  heart  has  been  with  you  most  con- 
stantly during  the  late  important  period,  and  the  many 
particulars  which  your  dear  Father  has  made  time  to  write 
to  me,  have  been  matter  for  continued  thought  and  thank- 
fulness,— indeed  for  continued  prayer:  for  what  can  be 
the  issue  of  every  reflection,  the  outlet  of  every  feeling, 
but  a  supplication  that  God  would  render  us  all  more  fully 
sensible  of  the  unbounded  mercy  of  His  dispensations 
towards  us,  and  that  He  would  give  us  a  heart  capable  to 
accept  from  Him  everything  that  He  may  send,  with 
willingness  and  thankfulness,  even  though  it  may  not 
always  be,  as  now,  that  which  we  most  desire  ?  It  makes 
my  heart  full  to  overflowing  when  I  think  to  what  a  degree 
all  that  I  can  most  desire  has  been  granted  to  me  as  to  you, 
my  dear  boy :  your  situation  in  Dr.  Schmieder's  house,  the 
whole  arrangement  of  the  school,  above  all  the  manner  of 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  415 


your  entrance,  and  your  being  yourself  satisfied  to  have 
entered  in  that  manner.  I  was  thinking  of  you  more 
especially  on  the  18th,  which  I  supposed  to  have  been 
your  critical  day :  and  most  assuredly  my  wish  floated 
between  two  points — the  one,  that  you  might  do  yourself 
credit,  the  other,  that  your  entry  might  not  be  a  brilliant 
one — in  the  fear  that  you  might  be  tempted  to  feel  your- 
self secure,  and  as  if  anything  less  than  your  best,  most 
urgent  and  unremitting  endeavours  could  be  sufficient  to 
enable  you  to  attain  to  the  point  which  you  are  called  upon 
to  reach,  in  the  time  that  you  will  enjoy  the  advantages  of 
Schulpforte.  I  have  seen  and  known  on  many  occasions 
that  succeeding  too  completely  is  a  bar  to  future  success, 
and  the  greatest  possible  evil  that  can  happen  to  any  one, 
is  to  have  his  energies  lamed,  and  his  activity  checked, 
from  within.  Therefore,  my  dear  boy,  though  I  think 
with  pain  of  the  terrible  puzzle  you  were  in,  when  called 
upon  to  put  Schlegel's  Dramaturgmhe  VorUsungen  into 
Latin,  I  most  cordially  rejoice  in  the  result,  which  had  the 
effect  of  detaining  you  in  that  lower  class  in  which  it  is  so 
necessary  for  you  to  feel  yourself  at  home,  before  you  can 
with  any  freedom  move  in  a  higher  sphere.  I  am  very 
thankful  to  be  informed  that  you  judged  rightly  of  your- 
self, and  had  no  wish  for  the  present  possession  of  honours 
which  you  did  not  feel  competent  to  wear.  May  you,  by 
God's  grace,  be  preserved  through  life  from  the  misfortune 
of  over-valuing  your  own  powers  or  attainments!  or 
imagining  the  circumstances  and  qualities  which  make  us 
accepted  and  valued  amongst  men,  to  be  always  a  standard 

of  intrinsic  worth." 

"  9  June  .  .  . — It  is  most  useful  to  be  among  a  number 


416        LIFE  AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

of  youths  of  the  same  age,  in  order  to  become  conscious 
that  man  was  not  made  to  stand  wholly  alone,  that  he 
must  combine  with  one  or  other  class  of  his  fellow-crea- 
tures, and  that  if  he  will  have  nothing  to  do  with  the  ordi- 
nary herd  of  the  insignificant — who  go  to  the  business  of 
life  like  slaves  to  their  daily  task,  and  submit  to  laws  and 
regulations  only  in  so  far  as  they  fear  the  rod  of  retribu- 
tion— he  must  in  his  actions  strive  to  belong  to  those  whose 
conduct  is  regulated  by  uncompromising  principle,  and 
whose  guiding-compass  points  ever  to  an  immovable  ideal 
standard  of  excellence,  higher  than  any  real  one  that  the 
experience  of  life  will  show." 

"  25  July  .  .  . — The  beginning  of  your  school-life,  my 
dear  boy,  has  been  so  prosperous,  you  seem  to  hare 
enjoyed  and  profited  by  the  good  with  so  little  mixture  of 
attendant  evil,  that  I  fear  your  worst  trial  may  be  yet  to 
come,  at  the  important  crisis  of  the  ushering-in  at  Oxford. 
But  yet  grown-up  men  must  be  less  rough  and  uncivilised 
than  when  in  school-boy  years :  and  whatever  the  conflict 
of  antagonistic  elements  of  society  such  an  university  may 
present,  I  must  believe  it  is  yet  ever  possible  for  one  who 
acts  in  singleness  of  heart,  with  no  object  but  that  of  doing 
right,  to  pass  on  unharmed  by  all  the  various  powers  of 
evil  which  present  themselves  in  forms  of  seduction  or 
intimidation.  The  worst  of  trials  is  the  trial  of  faith :  but 
through  that  also,  when  it  comes,  the  same  singleness  of 
heart  will  lead  you.  The  conviction,  if  a  difficulty  arises 
within,  or  is  suggested  from  without,  that  it  is  not  the 
fault  of  Christianity,  but  your  own  fault,  that  it  appears 
such, — that  the  mote  is  not  in  the  glorious  sun,  but  in  the 
glass  of  the  dim  telescope  through  which  you  are  viewing 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  417 

it, — will  always  give  time  for  help  to  arrive:  and  such 
help  will  never  fail  those  who  encourage  the  action  and 
long  for  the  presence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  grace  in  their 
minds." 

To  BUtfSEN. 

"  7  April  1834. — Yesterday  I  had  a  visit  of  an  hour 
from  Mrs.  Augustus  Hare,  whose  conversation  trans- 
ported me  into  another  world — a  world  of  soothing  and 
edifying  contemplation.  It  does  one  good  to  think  that 
in  the  case  of  her  married  life,  two  people  so  calculated 
to  love  and  benefit  each  other  were  brought  together 
by  Providence,  even  though  it  pleased  the  same  Provi- 
dence to  allow  them  but  five  years  of  mutual  enjoy- 
ment. They  had  been  attached  for  five  years  before 
their  marriage,  and  their  acquaintance  was  of  seventeen 
years'  standing.  Much  has  she  told  me  that  was  deeply 
interesting,  and  she  has  promised  to  come  again.  Her 
plan  is  to  take  a  cottage  in  the  parish  of  Julius  Hare,  or 
as  near  to  it  as  possible,  that  she  may  have  the  comfort  of 
seeing  as  much  as  possible  of  him  who  was  dearest  to  her 
late  husband,  and  of  endeavouring  to  assist  him  among  his 
parishioners,  which  will  be  a  continuation  of  the  habits  of 
her  life  in  the  parish  of  her  husband.  Is  it  not  a  blessing 
when  the  laws  of  a  country  hallow  the  relation  of  brother-in- 
law  and  sister-in-law,  and  make  it  as  sacred  as  the  tie  of 
blood  between  brother  and  sister  ?  Were  it  not  for  this 
both  Julius  Hare  and  his  sister-in-law  would  be  too 
young  to  venture  upon  this  plan  of  near  residence  and 
future  co-operation,  for  fear  of  the  comments  and  supposi- 
tions of  the  world." 

vol.  I.  E  E 


418        LIFE   AXD  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

"15  April. — Yesterday  the  Hares  went  away.  I  saw 
them  on  Sunday,  poor  Mrs.  Augustus  Hare  feeling  more 
than  anything  haying  to  part  from  the  room  where  she 
had  watched  her  husband  to  the  last,  and  go  far  away 
from  the  spot  where  his  remains  repose.  I  feel  that  next 
to  God's  words  she  will  find  His  works  her  best  com- 
forters. She  begged  me  to  visit  her  husband's  tomb. 
I  cannot  express  how  much  I  have  been  gratified  by 
her  manner  and  expressions  towards  me :  and  those 
of  Marcus  Hare.  She  showed  me  a  letter  of  Dr. 
Arnold's,  in  which  he  compares  you  and  Augustus  Hare, 
and  says  no  two  could  be  more  similar— concluding  with, 
'  God  grant  to  me  to  resemble-  them  in  the  nobleness  and 
beauty  of  their  goodness.'  " 

"21  April. — I  wish  you  could  see  how  delightful  the 
darling  twins  are :  they  are  now  singing  about  me  like 
two  little  birds,  waiting  for  their  breakfast.  You  have  no 
idea  of  the  enjoyment  we  have  from  the  garden,  and  as 
we  have  water  in  the  fountain  we  keep  it  watered — but  I 
cannot  yet  get  over  looking  at  Henry  and  Ernest's  deserted 
gardens." 

"  Villa  Piccohmini,  16  June.-r-Wh&t  pleasure  it  is  to  be 
again  in  this  delicious  place,  where  I  arrived  yesterday 
evening,  a  few  minutes  before  the  most  glorious  sunset, 
together  with  Kellermann,  Charles,  George,  and  Emilia; 
Miss  Thompson  and  the  rest  had  arrived  the  evening 
before.  I  had  feared  the  entrance  into  this  house,  where 
the  want  of  so  much  that  I  was  accustomed  to  enjoy  here 
appears  new  and  fresh :  and  most  certainly  it  was  very  sad 
to  see  my  Henry's  desk  and  Ernest's,  and  to  pass  your 
empty  study." 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  419 

To  her  Mother. 

"Fratcabiy  19  June,  1834. — *We  have  been  enjoying  our- 
selves here  since  lost  Sunday,  the  15th.  I  had  almost 
dreaded  coming,  or  rather  not  almost,  but  had  quite  an 
absurd  aversion  to  resolving  on  leaving  Borne,  apprehend- 
ing the  first  impression  of  the  absence  of  so  much  that  I 
love  on  coming  to  this  place,  where  we  have  all  lived  so 
happily  together.  But  that  was  a  morbid  vision,  and 
has  given  way  to  the  actual  reality  of  so  much  good  as  I 
am  allowed  to  possess  and  enjoy  here.  Miss  Thompson 
and  Kellermann  and  I,  with  the  five  children,  breakfast 
and  dine  at  a  smaller  table  and  in  a  smaller  room,  that  we 
may  not  be  reminded  in  the  great  hall  and  at  the  large 
table  how  many  places  are  unfilled :  but  still  we  occupy 
the  hall  to  our  great  comfort  as  a  sitting-room.  Frascati 
never  was  more  beautiful ;  after  all  the  fears  entertained 
from  the  drought,  all  is  fresh  and  green,  in  the  most 
delicious  summer-weather,  without  any  heat  to  complain 
of." 

To  BUW8EN. 

"  Frascati,  3  July. — We  all  go  down  after  dinner  into 
the  shady  alley  and  enjoy  the  aura  estiva :  the  girls  play 
and  talk  much  with  Adele  Vollard,  Kellermann  draws 
Theodore  in  the  little  cart — he  whipping  as  hard  as  he  can 
to  make  the  horses  go  on,  I  sit  with  Theodora  in  my  lap 
till  Hannah  has  dined,  Charles  shoots  with  a  bow  and 
arrows  of  his  own  making,  and  George  climbs  trees  at 
Kellermann's  bidding,  from  which  I  turn  away  my  eyes, 
though  well  aware  it  is  right  he  should  try." 

"  8  July,  1834. — When  you  are  not  here  it  seems  to  bo 


420   LIFE  AND  LETTEBS  OF  BARONESS  BUKSEN. 

such  a  clear  case  that  nothing  can  be  more  than  a  quarter 
enjoyed,  that  I  am  much  too  apt  to  make  all  days  working 
days,  all  hours  working  hours :  it  occurred  to  me  yesterday 
that  I  scarcely  take  the  requisite  time  to  stand  and  enjoy 
the  view  out  of  the  window,  as  I  used  to  do  last  year.  The 
season  is  indescribably  delicious !  yet  I  could  find  it  in  my 
heart  to  wish  that  it  would  rain,  that  it  might  be  fine  when 
you  return.  I  am  just  returned  from  a  drive  to  Marino, 
with  both  the  dear  twins.  Whenever  I  can  take  up  a 
book  (mostly  when  one  of  the  twins  is  asleep  on  my  lap)  I 
read  Evan's  '  Church  of  God,'  given  to  me  by  Mrs. 
Augustus  Hare,  and  reckoned  by  Julius  Hare  to  be  worthy 
of  Hooker.' ' 

"  25  July. — Kestner  went  yesterday  afternoon  to  Borne, 
and  Miss  Thompson  and  I  drove  with  him  in  his  scappmia, 
down  the  hill  to  the  place  where  I  had  long  wanted  to 
draw  that  Casino  with  the  pine  that  you  remember :  the 
boys  were  also  there,  playing  at  Piastrella,  and  we  walked 
nome." 

"11  August. — The  last  letter  of  Abeken,  our  Geneva 
son,  touched  me  as  usual  from  the  extreme  affection  which 
it  expresses.  I  sometimes  take  myself  to  task  for  not 
being  angry  at  being  canonized,  or  whatever  I  ought  to 
call  it,  as  I  am  by  him :  but  it  is  so  impossible  to  doubt 
the  reality  of  the  filial-regard  which  he  proves  to  me  at 
every  opportunity,  and  I  am  so  conscious  of  deserving  it 
by  the  regard  I  feel  for  him,  that  I  cannot  but  be  gratified 
by  the  expression  of  it,  however  well  aware  of  being 
enormously  overrated.  How  I  have  been  spoiled  for  the 
last  three  years,  my  Best-Beloved !  To  the  iron  rule  of 
your  deter  and  Simon  has  succeeded  a  period,  in  which  I 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  421 

have  been  drawn  closer  and  closer  to  you,  my  own  dearest ; 
in  which  you  yourself,  being  relieved  from  an  intolerable 
household  burden,  surrounded  by  associates  and  helpmates 
that  answered  to  your  needs  and  tastes,  in  full  and  suitable 
and  not  exhausting  activity,  could  for  the  first  time  in  the 
whole  period  of  our  married  life  thoroughly  expand  and 
develope  on  all  sides,  and  be  yourself  entirely  and  uninter- 
ruptedly, to  mine  and  everybody's  enjoyment.  Then  as 
household-friends  I  have  had  Ambrosch,  and  Sydow,  and 
Abeken,  to  spoil  me,  and  indulge  me,  and  praise  me,  and 
approve  me — and,  as  dear  Lady  Baffles  said, '  I  do  so  love 
to  be  spoiled  by  those  I  value ! '  And  now,  whereas 
during  your  former  absence  at  Berlin  I  was  a  ball  thrown 
from  one  to  the  other  of  the  two  spikes  of  your  si3ter  and 
Simon,  never  finding  a  resting-place,  and  worn  out  of  all 
independence  of  judgment  and  self-possession,  in  your  late 
absence  I  have  had  no  creature  to  control  or  thwart  me. 
I  have  had  Sydow's  constant  support  and  counsel  and 
sympathy,  Tippelskirch's  kindness  and  friendship,  Miss 
Thompson's*  grateful  attachment — and  if  I  have  had 
cares,  which  felt  the  heavier  for  your  not  being  present, 
yet  with  the  help  of  homoeopathy  to  procure  me  the  undis- 
turbed possession  of  my  own  physical  powers,  f  nothing  has 
been  overwhelming.  And  now  I  conclude  with  the  de- 
lightful idea  that  I  am  writing  to  you  for  the  last  time, 
and  that,  please  God,  I  shall  pass  but  one  more  Monday 

*  The  governess  of  her  daughters,  afterwards  Madame  Abeken. 

f  Madame  Bunsen  had  been  subject  to  violent  headaches,  which, 
occurring  sometimes  two  or  three  times  a  month,  deprived  her  in  each 
case  of  at  least  a  whole  day's  usefulness.  By  the  advice  of  Ncu- 
komm,  she  tried  homoeopathy,  with  excellent  effect,  owing  much  to  tho 
advice  of  Bomani,  homoeopathic  physician  to  the  Queen  of  NapL& 


422        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

without  having  been  reunited  to  you.  Farewell,  my  Best- 
Beloved,  may  God  please  to  grant  his  blessing  to  the  end 
of  your  journey,  and  to  the  re-commencement  of  our  home- 
life  !  May  you  not  have  so  idealised  your  wife  in  absence, 
as  to  be  less  satisfied  with  her  in  presence ! " 

To  her  Mother. 

'•27  August,  1834A-Gharles  returned  safe  and  sound 
last  Thursday.  On  Monday,  the  18th,  I  went  to  Borne  with 
a  carriage-full,  sent  the  carriage  back  on  Tuesday  morning 
to  bring  the  rest  on  Tuesday  evening,  that  we  might  all  be 
roady  to  drive  out  on  Wednesday  evening  on  the  Florence 
road,  which  we  did,  but  in  vain,  as  he  did  not  come  till 
Thursday  morning.  He  arrived  accompanied  by  Abeken, 
the  general  favourite,  and  Dressel,  a  person  of  much  pro- 
mise, whom  he  has  brought  as  tutor  to  the  boys.  On 
Sunday  afternoon,  the  24th,  we  all  moved  to  Frascati." 

"26  Sept — Nothing  was  ever  so  strange,  so  unnatural, 
and  apparently  impossible,  as  that  I  should  not  till  this 
day  write  a  line  to  my  own  dearest  Mother  to  express  some 
part  of  the  feelings  which  have  occupied  me  so  unceasingly 
since  I  received  the  letter,  which  told  me  she  would  come 
here,  and  that  she  would  come  into  my  house.  My  own 
Mother,  there  is  no  describing  the  happiness  of  every  hour 
and  every  moment  in  the  consciousness  that  I  shall  have 
you  here,  that  I  shall  really  be  able  to  enjoy  your  pre- 
sence ! — to  know  that  I  am  again  to  live  with  you !  to  have 
you  always  at  hand !  to  have  again  my  own  place  in  the 
room  you  inhabit ! — to  have  my  husband,  my  children, 
known  to  you  in  their  daily  habits,  not  as  visitors  at  set 
time* !— to  have  the  opportunity,  the  means,  the  timo,  as 


LAST   YEARS   AT   KOME.  423 

well  as  the  will,  to  make  my  whole  heart  and  my  whole 
life  known  to  you !  All  this  comprises  such  a  fullness  of 
happiness  and  comfort,  such  a  realising  of  wishes  and 
desires,  as  I  can  scarcely  believe  or  comprehend.  My  own 
dearest  Mother  !  how  I  ought  to  thank  you  for  overcoming 
all  the  many  difficulties  that  stood  in  the  way  of  my  gra- 
tification, and  yet,  how  strange,  that  the  last  thing  that 
occurred  to  me  was  to  thank  you !  It  is  such  a  fact,  such 
a  thing  understood,  that  you  always  do,  and  always  have 
done,  everything  possible,  almost  what  was  impossible,  for 
my  comfort  and  benefit,  that  to  thank  you  is  rather  a  part 
of  my  love  for  you,  than  a  separate  act  and  sensation. 

"  Charles  enjoys  the  idea  of  my  Mother's  coming,  almost 
as  much  as  I  do — he  is  for  ever  speaking  of  it,  morning, 
noon,  and  night.  And  good  Xestner  is  so  heartily  pleased  '. 
I  told  h™  of  it  one  evening,  and  he  came  the  next  day, 
saying,  '  I  cannot  think  of  anything  but  that  your  Mother 
ia  coming.' " 

Jo  Air  Sotf  HENEY. 

"  6  Dec.,  1834. — I  hope  you  will  receive  this  on  Christ- 
mas Eve,  that  you  may  not  on  that  day  he  without  an 
external  mark  of  the  feelings  with  which  you  will  be 
recalled,  in  the  far-distant  place  of  your  birth.  May  God'* 
blessing  be  with  you,  my  dearest  boy,  as  on  every  day  of 
your  life,  so  more  especially  on  the  first  Christmas  you  will 
have  passed  without  your  parents,  and  sanctify  the  feelings 
with  which  your  heart  will  be  filled :  make  you  serious, 
but  not  mournful:  reminding  you  that  to  those  who  striv.j 
to  be  united  in  His  faith  and  fear  and  love,  the  pott  and  the 
diitatd  are  not  lost,  and  the  future,  in  whatever  external 


424        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEX. 

form  it  may  come,  will  abound  in  good,  and  ripen  into 
glory  and  blessedness.'' 

"  19  March,  1835. — I  hope  this  letter  will  reach  you  on 
your  birthday,  and  convey  the  heartfelt  prayer  of  your 
parents,  that  every  blessing  may  attend  you  throughout 
the  year  upon  which  you  will  enter.  You  have  hitherto 
been  blessed  indeed,  with  health  and  every  advantage  to 
further  your  progress,  and  enable  you  to  qualify  yourself 
for  a  situation  of  usefulness :  and  may  it  please  God  to 
continue  them  to  you,  and  more  particularly  to  give  His 
grace  to  the  religious  instructions,  or  recapitulations,  that 
you  are  now  going  through,  and  to  the  whole  preparation 
you  make  for  the  most  solemn  act  of  your  independent 
existence,  by  which  you  as  it  were  confirm  the  Sacrament 
of  Baptism  received  in  a  period  of  unconsciousness,  and 
solemnly  undertake  to  be  a  '  doer  of  the  word,'  and  not 
merely  a  hearer;  an  actor,  and  not  merely  a  recipient. 
My  dear,  dear  boy,  may  God  help  you  to  become  indeed 
independent !  to  feel  that  you  are  come  to  an  age  of  self- 
responsibility,  in  which,  from  this  time  forth,  the  guiding 
advice  and  directions  of  others  may  be  sought  as  an  assist- 
ance, but  not  trusted  to  as  a  support :  in  which  you  are 
introduced  to  '  the  glorious  liberty  of  the  children  of  God,7 
and  called  upon  to  act  as  '  free,  but  not  using  your  liberty 
as  a  cloak  of  maliciousness,  but  as  the  servant  of  Christ.' 
In  your  intellectual  acquirements,  as  well  as  in  your  moral 
consciousness,  you  are  equally  called  upon  to  develop  on 
individual  existence,  and  I  trust  that  your  best  endeavours 
will  not  be  wanting,  and  then  the  blessing  of  God  will  not 
fail.  I  know,  and  have  experienced,  my  dear  Henry,  that 
it  is  a  difficult  stop  to  take  in  life,  to  resolve  to  look  upon 


J.AST  TEAKS  AT  ROME.  425 

it  as  one's  duty  to  judge  for  oneself,  not  in  the  sense  of 
opposition,  but  in  the  sense  of  independence.  In  the  law 
of  Christ  is  given  us  '  an  anchor  of  the  soul,  both  sure  and 
Bteadf ast ; '  and  that  is  what  is  to  keep  us  firm,  however 
the  winds  and  waves  of  this  troublesome  world  may  buffet 
us." 

Mrs.  "Waddington's  projected  journey  was  delayed 
for  some  time  by  her  own  alarming  illness  at  Llanover. 
But  she  arrived  at  Home  in  the  late  autumn  of  1834, 
accompanied  by  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Hall.  When  they  re- 
turned to  England  with  their  infant  Caradoc — being 
recalled  by  the  sudden  general  election,  and  posting  in 
eleven  days  from  Borne  to  Boulogne,  Mrs.  Waddington, 
with  her  little  granddaughter,*  accompanied  the  Bun- 
sens  to  Frascati,  and  spent  the  summer  in  the  ground- 
floor  of  the  Villa  Piccolomini,  of  which  the  first-floor 
was  occupied  by  the  Bunsens,  the  whole  family  living 
in  ever-increasing  enjoyment  of  the  view,  as  well  as  of 
the  fine  airy  rooms  of  the  old  country  palace.  At  this 
time  the  upper-floor  of  the  villa  was  occupied  by  M.  de 
Sydow,  and  M.  Abeken,  who  had  been  recently  married 
to  Miss  Thompson,  the  valued  English  governess  of  the 
Bunsens,  after  her  recovery  from  an  alarming  illness, 
which  had  at  one  time  seemed  hopeless.  Madame  Bun- 
sen  was  especially  thankful  for  her  mother's  presence 
and  advice  during  this  summer,  in  which  the  increasing 
lameness  of  her  second  daughter,  Emilia,  now  almost 

*  Now  the  Hon.  Mrs.  Herbert  of  Llanarth. 


\ 


426        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

entirely  confined  to  her  conch,  began  to  cause  her  great 
anxiety.  In  June  the  sad  news  of  the  death  of  Mrs.  Hall's 
youngest  child,  Caradoc,  nearly  caused  Mrs.  "Wadding- 
ton  to  set  out  suddenly  homewards,  but  the  risk  of 
travelling  with  her  young  granddaughter  was  so 
strongly  represented  to  her,  that  she  was  induced  to 
put  off  her  departure,  and  was  eventually  led,  by  the 
urgent  solicitations  of  her  daughter  and  son-in-law,  to 
remain  in  Rome  another  winter,  in  the  Palazzo  Caf- 
farelli. 

Mr.  Pusey  having  promised  a  living  to  Henry 
Bunsen,  and  his  own  decision  being  quite  formed  for 
the  life  of  an  English  clergyman,  it  was  decided  to 
remove  him  from  Schulpforte,  and  send  him  to  Rugby 
and  Oxford.  Meantime  he  was  allowed  to  return  for 
the  winter  of  1835 — 36  to  the  land  of  his  birth,  pro- 
ceeding in  the  following  April  with  his  grandmother 
to  England,  and  to  Llanover,  before  going  to  Rugby. 

Madame  de  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"24  April,  1836. — Having  drank  tea,  sung  a  hymn, 
accompanied  by  myself  instead  of  Henry,  seen  Emilia  and 
Mary  into  bed,  and  heard  them  say  their  prayers,  I  sit 
down  to  write  to  my  dearest  Mother,  in  a  place  in  which 
she  never  knew  me  sit,  in  the  first  window  of  the  yellow 
room,  at  the  round  table  which  used  to  stand  before  the 
corner-couch,  and  which  has  been  removed  to  make  room 
for  the  sofa-table,  till  now  used  by  my  Mother.  After  you 
left  we  set  off  to  Fiumicino,  having  settled  Emilia  in  the 
garden,  dressing  dolls  with  Angelina,  and  Mademoiselle 


LAST  YEARS  AT  HOME.  427 

cutting  out  a  doll's  frock,  the  dear  twins  d  la  chine  dvs 
JEscargoU,  picking  them  off  the  lilies.  The  road  to 
Fiumicino  is  very  prettily  varied  the  first  half  of  the  way, 
hills  and  dells,  brooks  and  meadows,  cultivation  and 
country-houses ;  the  trees  all  out,  even  oaks  and  walnuts, 
a  quantity  of  asphodel  in  blossom  (surely  Henry  will  see, 
and  show  that  classical  plant,  the  flower  of  death) ;  several 
views  to  draw,  particularly  looking  back  from  an  ascent  at 
8.  Paolo  and  the  broad  reach  of  the  Tiber  and  Mount 
Albano,  which  I  hope  to  drive  to  some  day,  for  it  is  not 
far.  "When  we  reached  the  sea-shore,  the  waves  were  dash- 
ing very  tolerably  for  the  Mediteranean,  and  surprised  the 
children  much.  Sir  Thomas  Acland  and  Lord  Clifford 
packed  us  into  two  boats  to  go  to  his  yacht,  where  we 
staid  till  nearly  dark. 

"My  own,  own  Mother,  you  blinded  yourself  by  your 
(farewell)  words  of  tenderness,  and  they  must  remain  un- 
oommented  upon,  lest  I  blind  you  again;  but  they  are 
treasured  up.  Your  expressions  of  approbation  revive  all 
those  feelings  of  penitence,  which  I  think  were  the  ruling 
ones  at,  before,  and  after  the  parting  with  you,  my  own 
Mother.  If  sin  and  wilfulness  did  not  mingle  in  every- 
thing, even  the  best  of  what  is  earthly,  how  much  more 
might  I  have  been  to  you,  my  own  Mother !  if  you  were  to  seek 
to  blame,  as  you  seek  to  be  satisfied,  how  would  your  appro- 
bation have  been  qualified !  But  all  I  could  say  on  this 
topic  shall  be  unsaid,  because  it  would  upset  us  both.  To 
be  able  to  feel  through  all  that  deserves  to  be  felt,  to 
think  through  all  that  deserves  to  be  thought,  to  live  up 
to  the  level  of  the  situation  in  which  the  soul  is  placed, 
must  be  the  happiness  of  a  better  state :  hero  it  is  only  by 


L 


428        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OP   BARONESS    BUSSES. 

dint  of  avoiding  what  we  cannot  bear,  that  we  prevent 
being  shaken  to  the  foundation :  and  perhaps  everybody's 
experience  tells,  that  the  most  intense  feelings,  of  what- 
ever description,  never  are  and  never  can  he  commu- 
nicated." 

"7  May,  1836.— Mr.  Meyer  and  Dr.  Braun*  dined 
with  us  yesterday,  having  returned  from  their  archaeolo- 
gical tour  of  nine  days.  They  brought  a  terrible  story  of 
the  Princess  Casino's  sons,  Pietro  and  Antonio,  who  have 
been  roving  about  the  country,  performing  all  the  atro- 
cities of  banditti,  robbing,  carrying  off  women,  and  at 
last  committing  murder.  This  murder  was  on  the  person 
of  a  man  almost  as  bad  as  themselves,  and  Meyer,  who 
had  been  told  that  one  of  them  had,  per  dityrtntia,  shot 
a  robber,  took  it  into  his  head  to  compliment  the  Princess 
upon  her  son's  having  rid  the  country  of  a  public  nuisance! 
The  unfortunate  mother  answered  with  embarrassment, 
said  she  was  greatly  distressed  by  the  accident,  but  pro- 
bably took  comfort  from  the  idea  that  the  deed  could  he 
represented  in  the  light  of  a  public  benefit.  However, 
scarcely  had  Meyer  and  Braun  left  the  castle  of  Musig- 
nano,  when  they  learnt  that  one  of  the  Bonapartes,  the 
guilty  one,  hod  escaped,  but  that  the  other  had  been 
arrested,  after  having  killed  on  the  spot  one  of  the  Pope's 
officers  and  mortally  wounded  another,  of  those  sent  to 
arrest  Mm.  He  is  now  in  the  Castel  8.  Angelo,  and  the 
opinions  of  the  Romans  are  divided  as  to  the  manner  of 
the  death,  which  it  is  supposed  he  cannot  avoid :  whether 

"  The  well-known  archeologiet,  who  was  nicknamed  "  Storto 
Collo,"  from  the  wiy  In  which  he  held  his  head  on  one  aide  to 
examine  HMU,  &C. 


LAST  YEARS  AT   ROMB.  429 


'to  save  public  disgrace/  lie  will  be  privately  executed,  o* 
poisoned! !  It  seems  that  17  years  ago  such  a  means  of 
preserving  appearance*  and  satisfying  Justice  was  bad  recourse 
to.  But  that  poor  unfortunate  mother !  Whether  she  has 
or  has  not  done  her  utmost  to  teach  her  children  religion 
and  morality,  in  any  case,  how  tremendous  is  the  visita- 
tion! 

"  I  have  profited  by  one  of  your  injunctions  in  letting 
Meyer  get  me  the  *  Heart  of  Midlothian.'  Beading  it  has 
done  good,  first  by  taking  off  the  edge  of  a  curiosity  to 
read  the  many  later  and  unknown  works  of  Sir  Walter 
Scott,  based  on  the  merits  of  the  few  earlier  ones  known  to 
me.  I  now  know  him  as  a  book-maker,  as  which  I  never 
knew  him  before.  It  is  a  proof  to  me  of  the  present  idle 
taste  of  the  multitude,  that  so  many  people  have  told  me 
this  was  the  very  best  of  the  novels !  To  my  feelings  it  is 
the  very  worst  I  have  ever  read — without  one  merit  to 
redeem  it,  except  being  founded  on  a  fact  in  real  life,  more 
affecting  and  more  admirable  in  its  real  circumstances  than 
in  his  working  out.  It  is  remplusage  from  first  to  last, 
mostly  or  entirely  unreadable,  but  from  curiosity ;  and  I 
am  sure  the  public  only  like  it  because  they  want  goats9 
flesh  and  asafatida  sauce  to  stimulate  their  pallid  appetite. 
There  is  advantage  taken  in  this  work  of  every  circum- 
stance of  natural  interest  to  harrow  up  the  reader's  feel- 
ings,— instead  of  sparing  them,  with  the  good  taste  of 
'Waverley.'  Then  the  improbabilities  are  not  to  be 
swallowed  —  the  contrivances  clumsy  and  commonplace 
beyond  description. 

"  We  have  had  much  pleasure  in  seeing  Mademoiselle 
Calandrini,   who  has  had  such  an  astonishing  success, 


430        LIFE    AND    LETTERS   OF    BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

though  a  Protestant  of  Geneva,  in  establishing  schools  for 
children  of  various  ages  at  Pisa,  beginning  with  places  for 
receiving  and  training  infante  of  from  a  year  and  a  half 
to  two  years  old,  and  proceeding  to  regular  schools  for 
the  same  children  when  older.  I  have  not  seen  for  a  long 
time  a  new  acquaintance  who  so  much  gave  the  impres- 
sion of  the  head  and  heart  being  both  right;  and  she  is 
perfectly  natural  and  pleasing,  not  the  least  apprtUe,  as 
the  Genevans  are  apt  to  be. 

"  Dr.  Arnold  has  sent  a  short  specimen  of  the  style  of 
bis'  Roman  History.  0  were  it  but  finished  and  published! 
It  will  be  a  treasure  to  children  and  to  everybody." 

"  12  May. — Lepsius  has  been  here  since  Monday.  He 
makes  a  very  satisfactory  impression  as  to  character  as  well 
as  talents,  in  short  he  fulfils  the  expectations  created  by 
his  letters,  which  were  clear-headed,  straightforward,  in- 
telligent, full  without  overflowing.  He  has  a  natural 
polish  of  manners,  but  no  ceremonial,  and  is  neither  for- 
ward nor  shy :  it  is  inconceivable  what  materials  he  has 
collected  for  the  study  of  Egyptian  antiquities,  and  his 
drawings  are  admirably  executed.  You  may  suppose  that 
Charles  is  very  happy  to  be  able  to  talk  of  Hieroglyphics, 
but  it  does  not  make  him  idle :  he  is  very  busy  oil 
day,  and  only  gets  to  his  treat  at  meal-timee,  and  in  the 
evenings." 

In  the  month  of  June,  Bunsen  and  his  wife,  with  four 

of   their  children,  enjoyed  a  carriage-tour   to  Gaeta, 

Benevento,  Avellino,  Salerno,  and  Naples — "a  journey 

filled  with  enjoyment,  bright  with  cheerfulness,  unem- 

-4   by  distress  or    inconvenience."      The    later 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  431 

summer  was  saddened  by  the  lingering  illness  of 
Madame  Abeken,  who  had  removed  to  the  rooms  in  the 
Villa  Piccolomini  recently  inhabited  by  Mrs.  Wadding- 
ton, — "  her  powers  of  resistance  and  endurance  incon- 
ceivable, and  her  state  of  mind  most  edifying,  full  of 
faith  and  hope,  and  anxious  to  be  gone."  She  died  in 
the  middle  of  August,  commending  her  heart-broken 
husband  to  the  Bunsens  in  her  last  moments,  so  that  he 
became  even  more  than  before  an  object  of  solicitude 
and  affection  to  them,  and  she  was  buried  in  the  ceme- 
tery of  Caius  Cestius,  near  the  graves  of  William  Wad- 
dington,  of  Augustus  Hare,  and  of  Bunsen's  infant 
children. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Mother. 

"  27  Oct.,  1836. — An  event  in  Frascati  the  week  before 
last,  I  must  now  detail :  it  was'  nothing  less  uncommon 
than  the  passage  of  the  Pope  on  the  way  to  Camaldoli,  but 
the  circumstances  were  unusual.  Charles  had  been  told  of 
the  Pope's  having  let  fall  expressions  to  the  effect  of 
'Bunsen  keeps  quite  away — I  have  not  seen  him  these 
two  years'  —  which  suggested  his  doing  something  to 
prove  that  his  having  refrained  from  seeking  opportunities 
of  personal  interviews  had  not  originated  in  any  want  of 
respect,  but  rather  in  delicacy,  from  the  nature  of  the 
negotiations  and  correspondences  going  on  all  that  time. 
He  therefore  sent  an  official  letter,  stating  that  he  had  been 
informed  by  the  Governor  of  Frascati  that  his  Holiness 
would  come  there  one  day,  as  usual  in  passing  to  Camal- 
doli to  dine ;  and  that  he  hoped  he  would  take  breakfast 


432        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

by  the  way  at  the  Villa  Piocolomini.  You  may  suppose 
that  he  wrote  this  in  his  best  manner,  and  also  you  will 
imagine  that  although,  all  things  considered,  it  wasYiot 
very  likely  we  should  have  to  go  through  the  undertaking, 
yet  still  I  was  somewhat  in  hot-water  till  the  answer  came 
— gracious  beyond  expression,  though  for  this  time  declin- 
ing, as  having  promised  to  stop  at  Cardinal  Pacca's  and 
the  Villa  Falconieri.  At  the  same  time  Charles  was  in- 
formed that  this  personal  attention  had  given  great  pleasure, 
and  when  he  went  over  to  Castel  Gandolfo  the  day  after 
the  Pope  arrived  there,  to  wait  upon  him,  he  was  over- 
whelmed with  caresses.  The  Pope  dwelt  with  emphasis  on 
his  owing  his  cure*  to  a  Prussian,  and  said  further  '£ 
proprio  un  suo  fratello  il  quale  t\  venuto  per  guarirmi' — 
from  a  likeness,  real  or  supposed,  in  person,  between  Dr. 
Alertz  and  my  husband.  A  day  or  two  later,  when  the 
intended  visit  of  the  Pope  to  Frascati  took  place,  it  had 
been  settled  that  Charles  should  take  the  opportunity  of 
presenting  to  him  several  Prussians,  mostly  Catholics, 
when  he  was  in  the  sacristy,  as  being  far  less  troublesome 
than  such  presentations  in  Borne,  and  accordingly  he 
appeared  with  his  train,  two  ladies  and  four  men,  in  the 
small  sacristy  of  the  church  of  Frascati,  and  was  made  to 
approach  close  to  the  Pope's  chair,  on  one  side,  in  order 
the  better  to  make  his  presentations.  The  Pope  spoke  to 
each  of  the  three  Catholic  young  men  (one  of  them  Urlichs) 
and  expressed  himself  pleased  with  them — *  Buone  faeeie, 
tnipiaceiono/1 — and  after  the  whole  set  had  retired,  Charles 
prepared  to  retire  also  from  his  post  of  honour,  but  the 
Pope  said,  'Restate,  restate?  and  went  on  talking  to  him, 

*  From  cancer. 


LAST    TEAKS  AT    ROME.  433 


bo  eagerly  that  lie  could  not  move,  all  the  while  the  Pope 
remained  there,  having  his  foot  kissed  by  a  crowd  of  friars, 
ladies,  and  persons  of  all  sorts,  as  fast  as  they  could  come 
in  and  go  out. 

"  Alertz  has  received  princely  rewards  for  his  cure  of 
the  Pope." 

To  her  Son  Henbt. 

"  19  Nov.,  1836, — At  present  there  is  no  prospect  of  the 
gratification  of  our  wish  for  removal  to  the  south  of  Ger- 
many :  I  must  be  satisfied  that  when  God  sees  it  good  for 
us,  it  will  be  contrived,  for  your  Father  has  done  all  he 
could  to  further  it.  The  reasons  for  wishing  it  are  very 
decisive — not  that  an  unknown  country  can  in  itself  be  an 
object  of  desire  to  me,  and  probably  neither  he  nor  I  will 
ever  have  elsewhere  the  enjoyment  of  existence  that  we 
have  in  Borne  and  Frascati ;  but  to  be  established  in  a 
really  cheap  country,  where  we  could  feel  that  our  income 
was  enough  and  to  spare,  would  be  an  enjoyment  such  as  I 
have  never  known  yet :  and  to  be  within  reach  of  Ernest, 
and  not  to  be  compelled  to  cast  away  Charles  and  George 
like  balls  to  such  a  distance  as  not  to  be  able  to  catch  them 
again,  is  the  first  and  most  pressing  of  all  reasons  for 
desiring  a  removal  to  the  north  of  the  Alpine  barrier: 
which,  if  we  had  once  crossed,  there  need  be  no  impossi- 
bility of  our  visiting  England,  and  seeing  my  dear  Henry: 
although,  so  great  is  the  comfort  I  experience  from  having 
been  allowed  such  a  renewal  of  intercourse  and  as  it  were 
acquaintance,  in  the  last  winter,  that  separation  is  now 
comparatively  nothing  to  me,  compared  to  what  the  separa- 
tion from  Ernest  is  becoming.    When  you  both  went  with 

vol.  I.  y  $ 


434        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BtTNSEN. 

jour  Father  to  Germany,  I  parted  from  you  as  children : 
now  I  have  seen  you  again,  in  comparative  independence 
and  fixedness  of  character,  you  understand  me,  and  I 
understand  you,  and  your  letters  I  can  take  as  really  reflect- 
ing the  state  of  your  mind  and  thoughts.  But  each  year 
seems  to  make  Ernest  more  a  stranger,  and  I  confess,  not 
to  be  enabled  to  see  him,  is  gradually  becoming  heavier 
and  heavier  to  me. 

"We  have  seen  much  of  Fapencordt  this  summer— a 
first-rate  being  and  a  real  acquisition.  Lepsius  is  also 
much  here,  and  helps  your  Father  to  refresh  himself  with 
Hieroglyphics :  indeed  your  Father  is  calculating  Egyptian 
chronology  (which  you  know  was  an  old  passion)  and  is 
making  out  delightful  things.  Lepsius  is  a  person  of 
astonishing  mental  gifts,  and  of  all  sorts  of  talents,— 
amongst  others,  musical :  he  sings  and  plays  delightfully. 
He  is  busily  engaged,  in  short  there  never  was  such  a 
working  colony  as  that  of  Frascati." 

"  19  Nov, — Dr.  Arnold  has  written  to  us  his  decision  for 

your  going  to  Oxford  as  soon  as  Easter I  have 

only  therefore  to  remind  you  that  nothing  is  demanded  of 
you  that  is  not  within  reach  of  straight-forward  industry 
and  application,  and  that  it  is  a  certain  fact,  nothing  of 
lawful  and  laudable  attainment  can  resist  the  human  will, 
if  only  strenuous  and  unremitting.  I  think  it  was  a 
maxim  of  Maupertuis,  '  Qu'est  ce  que  c'est  que  him  vouloir  ? 
— C'est  ne  vouloir  qu*  une  chose,  mais  la  vouloir  toujours, 
dans  tous  les  instans  de  la  vie.' " 

On  the  5th  of  January,  1837,  a  twelfth  child  was 
born  to  the  Bunsens,  making  a  tenth  in  the  large  family 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  435 

of  living  children.  She  was  baptized  by  the  names  of 
Augusta  Matilda,  Dr.  Arnold  being  her  god-father. 

Madamr  Bunsex  to  her  Mother. 

"  14  Feb.j  1837. — I  have  nothing  but  causes  of  thankful- 
ness to  communicate.     My  darling  baby  thrives  and  grows 

fatter  and  heavier  every  day One  thing  that  I  have 

long  had  to  tell,  and  yet  have  not  written,  is  the  satisfac- 
tion I  feel  in  the  growing  practical  affection  I  experience 
from  my  children.  I  have  felt,  more  than  I  could  or  would 
tell  them,  how  eager  all  have  been  to  help  me,  to  be  of  use 
to  me,  to  do  anything  with  me  or  for  me — in  their  various 
ways." 

"  22  April. — The  Cliffords  have  had  a  great  loss,  and 
Borne  too,  in  the  death  of  Cardinal  Weld,  who  has  died 
probably  in  consequence  of  mistaken  treatment.  To-day 
the  English  College  has  celebrated  a  mass  for  him,  in 
which  the  music  was  Mozart's  Requiem.  Monsignor 
"Wiseman  held  a  funeral  sermon,  in  which  he  introduced  a 
sketch  of  the  Cardinal's  life. 

"  We  have  parted  with  the  Seymers  with  great  regret, 
having  found  them  continually  improve  on  acquaintance. 
I  have  quite  a  regard  for  Miss  Seymer,*  and  hope  not  to 
lose  connexion  with  her  altogether." 

"  Irascati,  3  July,  1837. — Fancy,  my  dearest  Mother,  if 
you  can,  anything  so  extraordinary  as  our  having  now  a 
diplomatist-courtier  by  profession  as  our  daily  inmate !  You 
will  say  how  can  that  be,  with  the  scrambling  arrange- 
ment, the  make-shift  furniture  of  the  Villa  Piccolomini. 
Because  the  Baron  de  Buch  is  a  good-natured  person,  with 

*  Afterward*  Mrs.  E.  Denison,  -wife  of  the  Bishop  of  Salisbury. 


436        LIFE   AND  LKTTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUXS2N. 

straight-forward  understanding,  and  perfect  good-breeding. 
He  has  succeeded  TJsedom,  to  whom  we  had  constantly 
become  more  and  more  attached,  for  he  is  a  most  valuable 
character,  with  first-rate  abilities." 

In  the  three  years  which  had  elapsed  since  the  last 
visit  of  Bunsen  to  Berlin,  the  differences  between 
Prussia  and  Rome  had  remained  unsettled,  and  in  the 
meantime  the  gentle  Pius  VIII.  had  given  place  to 
Gregory  XVI.,  and  the  Archbishop  of  Cologne  under 
whom  hopes  of  conciliation  had  been  entertained  had 
passed  away,  leaving  his  placo  to  be  filled  by  the 
strange  appointment  of  Baron  Droste  von  Vischering, 
an  uncompromising  zealot,  who,  with  the  character  of 
Thomas  &  Becket,  was  resolved  to  yield  no  atom  of  his 
spiritual  power.  Still,  in  June,  1837,  hopes  of  concilia- 
tory arrangements  were  again  entertained  at  Berlin 
from  the  expected  arrival  of  Monsignor  Capaccini,  the 
confidential  secretary  of  Consalvi,  who  since  his  death 
had  been  the  one  great  statesman  possessed  by  Borne, 
equally  "  the  faithful  servant  of  his  Government,  and 
the  faithful  friend  of  humanity,  which  he  desired  to 
serve  by  promoting  peace  and  a  good  understanding 
among  all  sorts  and  conditions  of  men." 

That  Bunsen  should  again  be  summoned  to  Berlin 
was  natural,  especially  as  he  had  long  lived  at  Borne 
with  Capaccini  in  relations  of  personal  friendship  and 
mutual  esteem.  He  was  desired  to  come  as  quickly  as 
possible,  so  as  to  arrive  before  the  Papal  envoy,  and  to 


LAST  YEARS    AT  ROME.  43? 

use  what  pretext  he  chose  for  his  journey.  The  pre- 
text was  found  in  his  taking  with  him  his  third  and 
fourth  sons,  Charles  to  be  placed  at  Blochmann  Institu- 
tion at  Dresden,  and  George  to  the  school  at  Schulp- 
forte.  When  he  arrived  at  Berlin,  Bunsen  found 
the  King  already  determined  upon  the  arbitrary 
removal  of  the  obnoxious  Archbishop,  who  was  accused 
of  having  entered  into  the  Ultramontane  combination 
of  the  Belgian  bishops,  and  had  given  further  offence 
by  having  proscribed  the  theological  teachers  in  the 
University  of  Bonn,  which  had  been  endowed  and  was 
supported  at  the  expense  of  the  Prussian  Government. 
Accordingly,  on  the  20th  of  November,  1837,  the 
Archbishop  was  arrested,  and  conveyed  away  from  his 
diocese,  never  more  to  return.  It  was  a  rash  act  of 
despotism,  and  as  such  aroused  the  indignation,  not 
only  of  the  Catholic,  but  of  the  Protestant  population 
of  Germany.  Its  imprudence  was  afterwards  felt  by 
the  Government.  Bunsen,  who  had  been  employed  at 
Berlin  to  draw  up  a  statement  of  the  whole  quarrel 
between  Church  and  State,  was  unjustly  pointed  at  as 
its  instigator,  although  his  liberal  wishes  might  have 
been  conclusively  proved  from  his  having  recently  by 
his  personal  influence  with  the  King  obtained  that 
Catholic  soldiers  after  parade  should  be  held  excused 
from  attending  the  Protestant  service,  which  had 
hitherto  been  compulsory. 

During  his  stay  at  Berlin  a  way  of  escape  from  the 
difficulties  of  his  position  at  Rome  had  seemed  to  open 


438        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


for  Bunsen  in  the  vacant  place  of  Director-General  of 
the  Royal  Museum,  and  in  September  he  sent  positive 
directions  to  his  wife  to  pack  up  and  prepare  for  in- 
stant removal  with  the  whole  family  to  Germany.  But 
cholera  was  then  raging  both  at  Borne  and  Berlin,  the 
cordons  and  quarantines  between  the  two  places  ren- 
dered an  immediate  journey  impossible,  and  before  it 
could  be  carried  out,  Bunsen  had  discovered  that  the 
museum  directorship  was  to  be  united  with  other  duties 
which  rendered  his  acceptance  of  it  most  undesirable, 
so  that  his  wife  received  directions  to  unpack  again, 
and  await  further  directions.  Her  calm  courage  in 
danger  of  pestilence,  and  imperturbable  patience  amid 
so  many  wearisome  changes  of  plans,  will  be  apparent 
in  her  own  letters,  where  least  of  all  she  sought  to  exalt 
herself.  Amid  the  agonizing  suspense  of  the  cholera 
period,  surrounded  by  so  many  young  children,  and  hear- 
ing daily  that  some  valued  friend  had  fallen  a  victim, 
she  had  the  support  of  her  son-like  friend  Heinrich 
Abeken,  whose  noble  exertions  during  this  trying  period 
were  afterwards  rewarded  by  the  King  of  Prussia  with 
the  Order  of  the  Eagle,  the  royal  munificence  at  the 
same  time  paying  off  all  debts  on  the  German  Hospital 
at  Borne. 

In  the  beginning  of  December,  a  Commission  was 
established  at  Berlin  for  transacting  the  affairs  of 
Borne,  and  immediately  after  this  grand  mistake,  with 
enmity  behind  him,  and  hostility  before  him,  Bunsen 
left  Berlin.    He  passed  through  Vienna,  where,  owing 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  439 

to  the  friendship  of  the  Comtesse  Ste.  Aulaire,  he  was 
kindly  received  by  Prince  Metternich,  who  urged  him 
to  delay  his  journey  till  the  arrival  of  a  fresh  courier 
with  some  indication  of  the  state  of  feeling  at  Rome  ; 
but,  being  overruled  by  other  advice,  he  proceeded  to 
Trieste.  Here  letters  from  his  wife  awaited  him 
announcing  the  declaration  of  the  Pope  that  he  would 
never  receive  him  again.  Still,  instead  of  returning  to 
Berlin  to  defend  himself,  or  awaiting  directions  from 
head-quarters,  he  imprudently  pushed  on,  and  he  arrived 
at  Rome  just  before  Christmas. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Bunsen. 

"17  July,  1837. — It  costs  a  sort  of  effort  to  begin  to 
write  to  you,  because  it  presupposes  the  certainty  of  your 
total  absence ! — which  as  yet  I  can  scarcely  comprehend. 
Frances  and  I  breakfasted  in  inconceivable  solitude,  and 
then  went  to  church,  which  was  an  inexpressible  comfort : 
in  no  other  way  than  in  taking  part  in  public  devotion  as 
a  means  of  edification,  could  the  troubled  waves  have  been 
equally  brought  to  rest — even  had  it  been  possible,  by  any 
efforts,  to  procure  two  hours  of  equal  quiet  in  one's  own 
room,  in  which  to  meditate  on  all  that  could  compose  and 
strengthen  the  mind,  yet  just  at  the  moment  of  need,  the 
mind  is  not,  with  me  at  least,  independent  enough  to  find 
what  it  most  needs,  and  would  either  prey  upon  itself,  or 
at  best  fall  into  unprofitable  stupour.  Abeken  chose  the 
hymn  '  In  alien  meinen  That  en/  which  was  just  what  I 
could  have  wished :  and  his  sermon,  saying  that  all  fears 
and  exaggerated  anxiety  as  to  the  future  is  a  sort  of  denial 


440        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

of  God  and  his  providence,  such  as  those  who  call  them- 
selves Christians  should  see  that  they  correct  and  conquer, 
if  they  "will  deserve  that  name,  was  peculiarly  what  I 
wanted.  After  church,  George's  and  Charles's  poor  nurse 
came,  ready  to  break  her  heart  that  she  had  not  been  able 
to  take  leave  of  them.  At  half -past  five  we  set  out  to 
return  to  Frascati,  and  had  a  most  delightful  drive." 

"  Frascati,  13  August,  1837. — I  have  little  to  communi- 
cate except  what  is  not  new,  that  home  and  daily  occupa- 
tions, and  home-objects,  and  walks,  and  drives,  and  what 
not,  are  all  very  different  without  my  Best-Beloved,  to 
what  they  were  with  the  addition  of  his  presence.  This 
«wvfcy-day  world,  as  Shakspeare  calls  it,  never  puts  on  a 
festal  garb,  when  you  are  away ;  there  is  nothing,  thank 
God,  to  complain  of,  there  is  as  yet  no  distress,  but  I  have 
not  the  sensation  of  enjoyment. 

"There  is  no  cholera  in  Borne,  at  least  I  believe  not: 
but  there  are  algide  perniciose,  and  gastriche  colerische,  which 
those  who  have  a  mind  to  be  frightened  suppose  to  be  only 
thin  disguises  for  the  dreaded  monster." 

"21  Augtist,  1837.— Thank  God,  all  is  well  with  us, 
although  the  storm  which  has  so  long  been  gathering  has 
burst  over  Home,  and  the  cholera  is  an  admitted  fact  there. 
What  the  mortality  really  is,  it  is  difficult  to  know,  but  no 
doubt  greater  than  it  need  be,  if  help  was  granted,  and 
rational  measures  taken.  Monsignor  Marini  and  Mon- 
signor  Morichini  are  said  to  be  very  active  in  distributing 
food  and  other  assistance  to  the  distressed  in  Trastevere, 
but  in  other  quarters  of  the  city  it  does  not  seem  that  any- 
thing is  done.  In  that  part  of  the  Quirinal  occupied  by 
Monsignor  Capaccini  there  have  been  four  cases  and  two 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  441 

deaths.  The  Pope  does  not  leave  Lis  apartments.  Prince 
Henry  is  as  yet  well,  that  is,  in  his  usual  state.  Yollard* 
is  firm  at  his  post. 

"As  to  myself,  what  should  I  tell  you  but  that  I  want 
you  every  hour  of  the  f our-and-twenty  ?  God  bless  you 
and  keep  you  in  health  of  body  and  mind,  guide  your 
steps,  and  rule  your  actions." 

To  her  Mother. 

"  Frascati,  22  August,  1837. — The  cholera  is  at  last  in 
Borne  certainly.  The  Princess  Massimo  f  had  her  usual 
Saturday  evening  party  and  was  dead  on  Sunday  morning. 
The  dreadful  idea  of  poison  possessed  the  ignorant  savages 
of  Borne,  and  in  the  Piazza  Montanara  (very  near  the 
Capitol)  they  fell  upon  a  poor  Englishman,  a  master  of  tho 
language,  who  it  is  said  had  the  imprudence  to  caress  a 
child,  and  give  it  a  ciambella ;  he  received  eleven  wounds, 
was  with  difficulty  dragged  away  by  the  soldiers,  and 
brought  to  the  Hospital  of  the  Consolazione,  where  it  is 
feared  that  he  is  by  this  time  dead.  This  occurrence  has 
startled  the  Boman  government,  and  a  proclamation  has 
been  issued  announcing  summary  and  severe  punishment 
to  anyone  who  shall  dare  to  speak  of  poison.  It  is  said 
the  women  were  more  savage  than  the  men.  A  report 
went  about  that  the  wounded  man  wr,s  a  Prussiano,  and  he 
was  even  improved  into  a  Maestro  Prussiano — il  Maestro  del 
Ministro  di  Prussia,  so  that  Bravo  ran  in  a  fright  to  the 
Capitol  to  know  if  it  was  indeed  Urlichs,  Abeken,  or 

*  An  intimate  friend  of  Bunsen,  private-secretary  to  Prince  Henry 
of  Prussia. 

f  From  the  terror  which  pervaded  all  classes,  the  body  of  the  Prin- 
cess llassimo  had  to  he  carried  to  the  grave  by  galley-slaves,  as  no 
other  persons  could  be  found  to  perform  the  office. 


442        LIFE    AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

Kellermarm.  A  priest  has  also  been  ill-treated  by  a 
limonaro,  for  giving  sugar-plums  to  some  girls  of  bis 
acquaintance,  but  carabinieri  were  luckily  near  enough  to 
save  bis  life.  In  Trastevere  there  is  considerable  mortality, 
but  then  no  physician  dares  practise  there,  the  temper  of 
the  people  is  so  savage,  and  the  idea  of  poison  so  general. 
Tremendous  was  the  uproar  of  devotion  on  the  Madonna- 
festival;  processions  barefoot  and  howling  out  litanies 
crowded  the  Gesu-church,  whither  the  wonder-working 
image  has  been  brought  from  Sta.  Maria  Maggiore.  Of 
these  processions  it  was  observed  that  the  one  from  Monte 
Gaprino  out-screamed  two  or  three  others.  In  the  evening 
there  was  a  general  illumination  to  propitiate  the  Madonna, 
and  the  whole  population  paraded  the  streets  in  their  best 
clothes. 

"Here  in  Frascati  we  have  as  yet  no  cholera,  tho'  much 
sickness,  as  usual  when  the  heat  bursts  out  all  at  once 
after  a  long  period  of  unusual  coolness.  Frascati  is  appa- 
rently rational  and  enlightened,  as  being  the  only  town 
around  Borne  that  is  not  closed  against  all  that  would 
enter.    Albano,  Marino,  little  Grotta-Ferrata.  &c,  let  no 

creature  in,  but  Frascati  trusts  in S.  Bocco !    He  is 

the  patron-general  of  pestiferfa — he  saved  Frascati  from  the 
plague  in  the  16th  century,  when  it  was  just  at  the  gates, 
and  caused  a  miraculous  image  of  himself  to  be  found, 
which  is  still  in  his  church,  noi  siamo  divoti  di  S.  Rocco,  and 
how  should  the  cholera  get  here  ?  So  they  let  all  fugitives 
in,  and  such  carriages-full  come  from  Borne,  that  I  cannot 
guess  where  they  sleep.  I  confess  I  cannot  manage  to  get 
frightened,  which  I  really  think  must  be  stupidity  and 
want  of  imagination." 


LAST  YEARS  AT    ROME.  443 

To  BUHSEtf. 

"26  August,  1837. — So  I  have  passed  your  birthday 
without  yourself — for  the  first  time  for  twenty  years :  I 
wish  it  may  be  the  last.  I  asked  Papencordt  and  young 
Abeken*  to  dinner,  and  treated  all  with  some  ice,  which 
made  the  children  exceedingly  happy.  In  the  evening  we 
went  to  the  Villa  Muti,  and  returned  late  enough  for 
Theodore  to  see  to  his  satisfaction  the  Milch  Strasse,  which 
he  has  learnt  to  pronounce  in  German,  and  had  asked  to 
be  shown  many  evenings  when  the  moon  had  been  bright. 
After  dinner  I  allowed  myself  also  an  amusement — which 
you  know  to  me  is  a  great  one,  though  rare — that  of  read- 
ing a  novel  of  Walter  Scott's — '  Quentin  Durward.' 

' 'Abeken  will  give  you  the  details  of  the  awful  scenes 
going  on  at  Borne — the  death  and  burial  of  poor  Houseal, 
the  murdered  Englishman,  and  the  death,  alas !  by  cholera, 
of  the  Norwegian  from  Drontheim,  who  was  such  a  faithful 
member  of  our  congregation,  and  of  the  choir.  Such  a 
scene  of  misery  and  confusion  and  terror  and  unreason- 
ableness  as  Borne  at  this  moment,  can  I  suppose  hardly 
be  imagined: — nineteen  galley-slaves,  employed  to  form 
the  new  burial-ground  near  S.  Paolo,  have  seized  the  arms  of 
the  soldiers  when  piled,  and  made  off :  some  have  escaped, 
and  others  were  taken : — there  have  been  two  attempts  at  in- 
surrection in  Borne,  to  prevent  the  establishment  of  cholera- 
hospitals  within  the  town,  the  fools  not  considering  that 
the  only  chance  for  the  life  of  those  attacked  is  to  have  no 
long  journey  to  make.     But  each  several  individual  of  this 

*  Wilhelm  Abeken,  first  cousin  to  Madame  Bunsen's  " son-like" 
friend.  His  first  writings  on  the  "  Remains  of  Etruscan  Civilization  " 
were  much  applauded.    He  died  young. 


444        LIFE    AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BCNSKX. 

enlightened  population,  as  long  as  not  attacked  himself  or 
herself,  considers  every  cholera-patient  as  an  excommuni- 
cated being,  of  whom  it  matters  not  what  becomes.  The 
Princesses  Massmio  and  Chigi  have  been  conveyed  to  the 
same  public  burial-ground  with  the  rest  near  S.  Paolo. 
All  Borne  is  sighing  after  the  Austrians,  that  is,  that  class 
which  has  property  to  protect,  and  believes  the  Pope  has 
begged  them  to  come:  but  I  daresay  that  is  not  true. 
The  convent  of  the  Trinitd  de'  Monti  was  among  the  first 
places  attacked,  although  hermetically  closed:  several 
nuns  have  died,  and  the  report  goes  that  Lord  Clifford's 
daughter  is  ill.  But  this  proof  that  nunneries  are  not  safe, 
is  of  no  avail ;  every  private  house  that  possesses  the  means 
is  closed  against  all  comers." 

11 28  Aug. — As  yet  Frascati  is  not  attacked,  except  by 
fear.  Hitherto  the  dkozxom  a  8.  Rocco  keeps  up  such  a 
degree  of  courage,  that  free  passage  is  allowed  to  all  such 
as  do  not  confess  to  having  had  deaths  from  cholera  in 
their  house  at  Home :  only  everybody  is  fumigated  at  the 
entrance  of  the  town,  to  the  great  suffering  of  the  daily- 
passing  vetturiniy  some  of  whom  are  said  to  spit  blood 
from  the  quantity  of  Chlor  they  have  inhaled.  At  Monte 
Porzio  they  now  let  no  one  pass,  as  Urlichs  and  Papen- 
cordt  experienced,  who  rode  yesterday  to  make  a  visit  to 
Monsignor  Wiseman,  and  could  not  get  the  guard  to 
receive  their  cards.  The  reason  of  this  proceeding  is  said 
to  be,  that  having  formed  no  idea  of  fumigation  but  making 
a  great  fire  before  the  gate,  and  then  driving  people  round 
it  or  through  it,  they  scorched  a  woman  and  burnt  her  ass, 
to  a  degree  that  made  it  clear  the  practice  must  be  aban- 
doned.   Thus  as  the  neighbouring  paesi  will  let  nobody  in 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  445 

from  Frascati,  Frascati  has  established  a  system  of  repri- 
sals, and  has  guards  at  every  corner  to  keep  out  all  that 
ara  from  the  neighbourhood.  At  Albano,  where  they 
were  so  savage  in  exclusion  from  the  first,  cholera  has 
appeared. 

"My  Best-Beloved,  I  write  on  other  things  with  a  sort  of 
shuddering  aversion  to  communicating  what  is  uppermost — 
that  Tommaso*has  been  seized  with  the  cholera !  It  was  in 
the  night  of  Saturday,  but  not  till  Sunday  morning  did  he 
send  for  a  physician :  every  care  has  been  taken  of  him, 
by  Abeken's  kind  superintendence,  but  as  the  second 
stadium  had  commenced  before  the  medical  assistance 
could  be  given,  there  is  little  hope.  Before  this  letter  is 
closed  I  shall  be  able  to  tell  you  whether  this  severe  loss 
has  befallen  us  or  not*.  He  at  least  has  not  wanted  what 
most  of  the  poor  patients  have  been  deprived  of — care  and 
kindness.  Angelina  and  Pietro  are  most  zealous  and  fear- 
less, and  also  Eosa  from  the  hospital.  Fantaleone  has 
attended  him,  and  the  advice  of  Tagliabo  was  asked.  I 
have  the  less  hope  that  he  can  get  over  it,  because  he  had 
been  long  in  a  state  of  spiritless  terror,  which  gave  him  no 

chance All  are  yet  well  in  this  house,  and  I  feel 

thankful  for  every  day  passed  in  health,  which  one  ought 
always  to  feel,  but  it  needs  a  nearer  threatening  of  the 
horrors  of  pestilence  to  be  reminded  of  mercies  daily 
received. 

"28  August  (Evening). — My  Best-Beloved,  our  faithful 
Tommaso  is  indeed  lost  to  us.  Ho  expired  on  Sunday 
evening,  27th,  at  sunset — before  I  had  received  the  first 
tidings  of  his  illness,  which  was  of  24  hours'  duration.    I 

*  The  Burscns'  house-steward,  husband  of  the  faithful  Angelina. 


446        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNS  EN. 

can  write  no  more  now,  for  I  am  obliged  to  take  to  my 
bed,  by  an  unusual  degree  of  migraine :  it  was  aggravated, 
no  doubt,  by  the  great  shock  I  have  received.  But  you 
know  I  always  tell  you  the  truth,  so  that  you  will  not 
apprehend  anything  more  or  worse I  am  indescri- 
bably thankful  now  that  you  are  not  here,  you  would  feel 
bound  to  go  to  Borne,  and  what  a  misery  that  would  be." 

"Fratcati,  30  August,  1837.— What  shall  I  say  of  the 
turmoil  of  thoughts  and  feelings,  caused  by  your  letter  of 
the  14th?*  But  all  that  I  can  think  or  feel  is  absorbed  in, 
one  feeling,  in  the  conviction,  that  whatever  you  decide 
upon,  I  shall  be  satisfied  with.  Causes  of  anxiety  I  have 
enough,  as  to  the  fulfilment  of  all  you  write  of,  because 
you  know  not  the  present  awful  state  of  the  country :  but 
all  may  yet  be  well.  If  it  please  God  to  save  us  from  the 
pestilence,  He  can  do  so  under  any  circumstances — here  at 
Frascati,  or  through  the  bustle  of  packing  and  settling 
affairs  in  Borne." 

"2  Sept  1837. — Yesterday  Kellermann  breathed  his 
last !  0  my  Best-Beloved !  it  is  indeed  walking  in  '  the 
valley  of  the  shadow  of  death : '  and  I  feel  so  relieved  that 
you  are  not  here  in  the  midst  of  the  danger,  that  I  know 
not  how  to  wish  for  the  speedy  return  that  your  last  letter 
promised !  But  if  things  are  wonderfully  so  arranged  as 
to  enable  you  to  realise  your  plans,  it  will  be  a  sign  that 
it  pleases  God  to  take  us  away  from  hence,  and  then  He 
will  help  us  through.  "We  are,  thank  God,  all  well  as  yet, 
and  the  pestilence  has  not  reached  Frascati :  but  if  you 
come,  you  will  find  all  looking  less  fresh  than  when  you 

*  A  letter  desiring  Madame  Bunsen  to  pack  up  and  come  to  Berlin, 
with  full  directions,  soon  afterwards  contradicted. 


LAST  TEARS  AT  ROME.  447 

left  us.  The  season,  independent  of  the  pestilence,  must 
Lave  been  a  trying  one.  You  will  believe  we  take  all  care 
as  to  diet:  no  fruit  has  been  touched  by  anybody  this 
long  time. 

"Poor  Abeken  asserts  that  he  is  well,  and  as  he  is  in 
the  active  discharge  of  duty,  I  trust  he  will  be  supported : 
tut  it  is  indeed  a  hard  trial,  with  weakened  health  not  half 
recovered,  to  stand  alone  in  the  breach.  Lepsius  is  daily 
expected,  but  I  write  to  day  to  urge  his  coming  here  to 
inhabit  Abeken' s  vacant  room,  and  not  risking  remaining 
in  Some,  coming  as  he  does  fresh  from  Tuscany.  His 
presence  might  be  a  comfort  to  Abeken,  but  also  on 
anxiety,  for  he  has  no  sound  constitution  to  struggle  with. 
Kellermann  sent  for  Abeken  at  five  o'clock  in  the  morning 
— he  was  already  very  bad:  Pantaleone  came  directly, 
afterwards  Dietz  (celebrated  for  successful  practice),  he 
wanted  no  help  that  could  be  given,  but  at  one  o'clock 
he  had  expired.  The  burial  was  to  take  place  this  morn- 
ing early. 

"The  poor  people  at  Monte  Caprino  are  now  crowding 
round  Pantaleone,  when  he  comes  up  to  the  Capitol,  and 
some  have  asked  for  medicine  from  our  Hospital.  This  is 
indeed  a  satisfactory  circumstance — and  this  is  after  people 
about  Piazza  Montanara  and  the  Consolazione  had  uttered 
threats  to  burn  the  Hospital — the  day  of  the  murder  of  the 
Englishman  Houseal,  and  when  the  first  report  existed, 
that  it  was  a  Prussian  who  had  been  seized  as  a  prisoner. 
I  would  not  write  this  in  my  first  letter — now  the  storm 
may  be  considered  to  have  blown  over.  Abeken  caused 
alms  to  be  given  to  the  most  distressed  about  the  hill, 
by  Don  Felice :  but  of  course  could  not  venture  to  give 


I 


448        LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

cither  soup  or  food.  Everything  is  getting  very  dear  in 
Borne.  A  conspiracy  has  been  discovered,  of  wretches 
who  intended  to  burn  and  plunder  the  palaces  of  such  as 
they  supposed  might  have  deposits  of  money — Borghese, 
Piombino,  Banco  S.  Spirito,  &c.  Wild  stories  are  told  of 
a  plan  of  seizing  the  Pope  and  changing  the  government, 
probably  not  true.  My  Best-Beloved !  I  will  close  this 
report  of  death  and  distress,  in  thankfulness  that  we  are  as 
yet  personally  spared.     Were  we  but  re-united  1 " 

To  her  Mother. 

"  5  Sept,  1837. — Frascati  has  as  yet  been  spared  the 
awful  scourge,  and  though,  the  season  being  an  unwhole- 
some one,  there  is  much  sickness,  independent  of  the 
worst :  the  children  have  been  quite  well,  and  myself  also. 
Abeken  has  been  fixed  in  Borne  ever  since  the  disorder 
was  declared  to  exist,  and  he  is  wonderfully  supported  in 
unceasing  exertion  and  anxiety.  But  we  have  had  a 
severe  loss  in  Tommaso,  which  I  have  not  felt  the  less, 
because  I  anticipated  that  he  could  make  no  resistance  to 
the  poisoned  atmosphere.  He  has  served  us  ten  years,  and 
never  abused  the  most  implicit  confidence; — and  I  need 
not  tell  my  Mother  that  if  I  knew  of  twenty  people  com- 
petent for  his  place  (whereas  I  know  not  of  one)  my 
sorrow  would  not  be  diminished.  The  1st  September 
Kellermann  was  carried  off  in  eight  hours,  which  Abeken 
will  not  easily  get  over.  He  too  was  close  at  hand,  and 
help  and  remedies  were  had  without  delay.  A  Norwegian 
cabinet-maker  we  knew  and  valued  died  in  the  hospital : 
two  other  cholera  patients  there  have  recovered :  but  all 
such  of  course  ke<*p  Abeken  in  continual  exertion.    In  one 


LAST   YEARS  AT  ROME.  449 

person  who  has  taken  up  much  of  his  time  and  received 
much  comfort   from  him,   I    have  taken  great    interest 
since  I  made  her  acquaintance  in  May  last — Mrs.  Yaughan, 
a  young  widow,  with  a  fine  boy  of  four  years  old,  who  is 
now  an  orphan.  She  was  a  niece  of  Mr.  Craven  who  lives  at 
Naples.    I  never  heard  the  name  of  her  family,  but  her 
father  had  a  place  in  the  Mauritius,  where  she  was  born 
and  bred.     She  married  at  sixteen  against  the  will  of  her 
parents,  and  at  nineteen  was  left  a  widow  immediately 
after  landing  at  Leghorn  among  strangers.    She  however 
found  kind-hearted  people  to  help  her,  and  came  on,  with 
an  old  Scotch  lady  as  a  protection,  to  Florence,  where  she 
had  a  dangerous  illness.    Prom  Florence  I  received  a 
letter  about  her,  and  since  she  arrived  in  Home  I  have  seen 
her  as  often  as  I  could.    From  a  strange  irresolution,  she 
staid  on  in  Borne,  till  she  got  a  dangerous  fever:  from 
that  she  was  recovering,  when  the  cholera  exhausted  the 
remains  of  vital  strength.    Abeken  sat  by  her  for  hours, 
many  days  together,  and  says  the  struggle  was  hard  for 
such  youth  to  part  with  life :  she  did  at  last  overcome, 
and  was  not  only  resigned  but  full  of  joyful  hope.     She 
and  Mr.  Burlowe  the  sculptor  are  the  only  English  who 
have  yet  fallen  victims  to  the  cholera.      Lord  Clifford 
and  the  English  College  are  said  to  have  exerted  them- 
selves to  do  good  to  the  sufferers  in  this  time  of  com- 
plicated misery:    also  the  Jesuits;   Alessandro  Torlonia 
has  distinguished  himself  by  increasing  the  number  of 
his  workmen,   distributing  to   the  poor,   and   fearlessly 
driving  out.      Almost  all  other    persons  of  name   have 
shut  themselves  in  their  palaces,   but  they  do  not  shut 
the  cholera  out:  many  individuals  of  rank  were  among 

VOL.  T.  GO 


450        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

the  first  victims,  and  if  they  were  to  be  so,  it  is  as  well 
that  it  was  at  first,  to  help  to  quell  the  dreadful  suspicion. 
among  the  people,  that  there  was  a  conspiracy  to  poison 
the  poor.  The  Princess  Chigi  has  followed  the  Massimo, 
and  Monsignor  Chigi,  for  whom  the  Prince  had  to  borrow 
the  hearse  of  the  Protestants !  that  he  might  be  taken  eon 
decenza  to  the  cemetery  at  S.  Lorenzo.  The  young  Duke  of 
Piano,  and  Gonte  Bolognese,  husband  of  the  young  Bran- 
cadoro,  are  among  the  dead." 

"Fratcati,  15  Sept.,  1837. — Thank  God  all  about  me  are 
still  well,  not  only  free  from  the  dreadful  visitation,  but 
even  from  the  fevers  of  the  season.  But,  my  own  Mother, 
I  have  received  a  summons  from  my  husband  to  follow 
him  with  all  the  children  to  Berlin,  as  soon  as  possible ! ! — 
and  therefore  have  more  upon  my  hands  than  you  can 
quite  imagine,  or  I  enumerate.  The  embarrassment  is 
increased  by  the  present  state  of  Borne,  for  everybody 
cautions  me  against  going  from  the  uninfected  air  into  the 
contagion,  until  it  is  more  nearly  abated,  and  I  can  do  very 
little  as  to  preparation  till  I  am  on  the  spot.  But  the  dis- 
order is  abating  fast,  and  the  season  has  changed  into  the 
finest  autumnal  weather,  and  I  have  hopes  that  I  may 
speedily  remove  and  set  to  work,  for  the  time  is  short  to 
get  to  Berlin  before  it  is  complete  winter.  From  several 
letters  I  perceived  that  plans  were  in  agitation  to  detain 
him,  although  he  could  not  write  plainly,  under  the  con- 
sciousness that  the  letters  would  be  opened :  nor  has  he 
explained  anything,  but  the  matter  of  fact  necessary  for 
me  to  know — that  his  present  post  in  Borne  is  continued  to 
him,  that  a  very  large  sum  was  to  be  advanced  for  his 
expenses  in  the  removal  of  his  family,  besides  the  centum- 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  451 

ance  of  his  allowance  :  which  I  am  soon  to  receive.  His 
having  had  a  long  personal  conference  with  the  King,  on 
the  business  in  which  he  is  engaged,  was  mentioned  by  the 
way,  and  was  a  very  satisfactory  circumstance  to  me.  I  have 
always  been  reminding  him,  that  he  could  never  hope  for 
success,  unless  he  made  out  that  his  communications  with 
the  King  were  to  be  immediate.  The  whole  matter  is  to 
appear  as  if  provisional,  but  I  cannot  think,  that  when 
once  over  the  Alps,  we  shall  return. 

"My  own  dearest  Mother,  I  write,  as  you  see,  the  most 
dry  unsatisfactory  account  of  this  most  important  crisis, 
that  can  be  conceived :  but  I  must  keep  feelings  out  of  the 
question,  that  I  may  if  possible  continue  fit  for  action. 
Reflection  tells  me  how  highly  satisfactory  this  change  is, 
on  the  whole, — how  highly  necessary  in  short :  and  I  must 
not  set  about  objecting  to  some  attendant  circumstances  of 
hurry  and  plague,  fatigue  and  responsibility,  which  if  I 
had  a  choice  should  have  been  otherwise.  To  have  to 
think  of  taking  leave  of  these  beloved  and  lovely  scenes 
only  so  short  a  time  before  I  leave  them,  is  a  great  advan- 
tage. The  children  you  may  suppose,  are  all  spirits — 
Emilia  quite  wild.  The  twins  take  it  the  most  quietly, 
tho'  Theodore  says,  '  Je  suis  bien  aise  que  je  vais  vois  la 
neige ! ' " 

To  Abexen  (at  Rome). 

"  Frascati,  13  Augu%t)  1837. — When  you  communicated 
your  intention  of  passing  in  solitude  the  solemn  anniver- 
sary,* I  so  fully  understood  and  sympathised  in  the  feeling 
which  prompted  you  to  seek,  not  uninterrupted  indulgence 

♦  Of  his  wife's  death. 


452         LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BTJNSEN. 

of  sensation,  but  undisturbed  converse  with  jour  own  soul 
and  with  God,  who  did  not  send  a  warning  so  awful  but 
for  his  own  purpose  of  universal  good, — that  I  could  not 
utter  one  word  of  objection,  feeling  as  if  I  should  indeed 
be  counteracting  great  things  by  insignificant  ones,  if  I 
sought  to  withhold  you  from  the  geiceihtes  Manna  lesen*  by 
anxiety  for  your  health :  but  I  have  since  felt  that  I  ought 
to  urge  upon  you  the  duty  of  circumscribing  your  stay  in 
Borne,  and  though  I  cannot  expect  of  you  to  give  up 
Tuesday  evening,  yet  at  latest  on  Wednesday  morning  you 
should  in  regard  to  your  health  return  here.  As  twelve 
months  ago,  at  my  request,  you  were  induced  to  leave  those 
remains  of  what  had  so  recently  been  life  and  feeling  and 
intelligence,  in  order  to  give  your  exhausted  body  the 
needed  rest,  for  the  sake  of  that  affectionate  father  who 
has  been  bereaved  of  so  much,  and  to  whom  nothing 
remains  on  earth  but  yourself, — so  I  hope  you  will  now 
renounce  your  intention  of  remaining  in  Borne  over  the 
funeral  anniversary  which  I  have  only  just  learnt  to  be 
your  purpose. 

"  Most  earnestly  do  I  pray  that  every  blessing  you  need 
may  attend  the  season  of  awful  retrospect.  Ever  yours 
with  maternal  affection,  F.  Buy  sen." 

"  23  August,  1837. — If  you  could  make  it  possible  to  see 
the  Platners  again,  I  should  be  much  obliged  to  you  if  you 
will  explain  that  I  can  contrive  seven  beds  for  them,  and 
the  lianchi  and  tavole  for  an  eighth,  and  that  I  have  coperii 
di  lana  for  the  beds,  but  not  biancheria.  Change  of  air 
would  do  them  more  good,  than  exposure  to  the  air  can 
do  evil. 

*  This  expression  occurs  in  a  hymn  of  the  17th  century. 


LAST  TEARS  AT   ROME.  453 

"  Were  it  not  for  the  fumigating  apparatus,  I  should  ask 
whether  you  think  you  can  be  spared  to  spend  my  hus- 
band's birthday  with  us :  and  yet  you  must  judge  yourself 
whether  it  is  right  to  be  out  of  the  way — perhaps  not: 
the  more  because  if  any  German  should  be  taken  ill,  there 
is  nobody  to  secure  his  being  brought  to  the  hospital  if  you 
should  be  absent.    "VVe  are  all  well." 

"  24  August. — You  will  be  assured  of  the  sympathy  with 
which  I  have  read  your  truly  melancholy  accounts,  and  I 
should  not  have  hinted  even  at  your  coming  over  here,  had 

I  known  of  there  being  a  case  in  our  hospital Yet 

pray  have  a  regard  to  your  own  health  and  do  not  go  on 
sitting  up  all  night  with  patients.  I  do  not  complain  of 
your  doing  so  in  the  first  instance : — it  was  necessary  to 
watch  over  physician  and  attendants,  as  much  as  the 
patient:  but  when  you  have  broken  them  in,  you  can 
economize  your  own  strength,  and  must  do  so,  if  you  would 
not  be  exhausted.'9 

"  August  26. — At  the  gates  of  Frascati  admittance  has 
been  refused  to  the  Ciampi  family,  because  a  death  from 
cholera  (of  a  blooming  daughter)  had  taken  place  among 
them.  I  cannot  therefore  help  being  alarmed  lest  the 
Platners  should  be  sent  back,  because  two  of  the  party  will 
ook  as  if  recovering  from  the  cholera.  It  occurs  to  me 
that  it  might  be  good  for  Platner  to  writo  beforehand  to 
the  Oovernatore  of  Frascati,  enclosing  a  certificate  from  the 
physician,  that  in  his  house  there  has  been  nothing  but 
febbre  intermittent*  non  contagiosa.  He  had  better  also 
mention  that  he  is  coming  to  inhabit  in  caso  del  Ministro  di 
Prussia  a  Villa  Piccolomini." 

"  August  27. — I  must  write,  but  know  not  what — except 


l 


454        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF  BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

my  most  heartfelt  thanks  for  your  care  of  Tommaso.  I 
have  no  hope  of  his  recovery.  How  little  I  can  spare  him, 
I  scarcely  was  aware  before :  I  ought  not  to  be  so  overset 
— I  ought  only  to  be  thankful  that  as  yet  nobody  still 
nearer  has  been  touched.  For  God's  sake  take  care  of 
yourself 

"  Or  if,  what  I  cannot  hope,  Tommaso  should  yet  be  alive 
when  this  note  arrives,  say  to  him,  or  let  him  be  told,  all 
he  can  bear  of  the  shock  I  have  received  in  the  anticipation 
of  his  loss, — even  to  the  tears,  which  I  reprove  myself  for 
shedding  because  they  can  do  him  no  good,  and  myself 
only  harm :  and  let  Angelina  be  assured  of  my  most  affec- 
tionate sympathy,  and  have  a  charge  to  take  care  of  herself 
all  she  can." 

"31  August. — I  have  been  busy  this  morning  with  poor 
Tommaso's  papers,  and  wish  his  example  may  take  effect  in 
proportion  to  the  emotion  it  has  occasioned.  How  it  does 
strike  me  to  see  that  paper  of  accounts  again,  which  I  had 
received  and  returned  to  him  three  days  before  his  death, 
and  on  which  with  such  admirable  exactness,  he  had,  to 
the  last,  noted  down  sums !  It  is  an  example  not  to 
forget :  for  though  possessed  by  the  general  fear  of  death, 
he  could  have  thought  as  little  as  any  of  us  that  he  was  not 
to  see  the  next  week. 

"The  anecdote  of  Prince  Chigi  and  the  hearse  is  most 
remarkable !  as  is  also  the  confidence  of  the  poor  people  at 
Monte  Caprino.  As  to  the  giving  of  soup,  I  should  think 
it  was  too  great  a  risk,  unless  to  individuals  who  should 
make  a  special  request  for  it,  and  then  as  quietly  as  possible. 

"That  the  body  of  Monsignor  Chigi  should  have  no 
"companying  clergy,  is  beyond  conception ! " 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  455 


To  Abekek  (on  the  news  of  Kellermann's  death). 

"  1  Sept.  1837. — Alas !  what  shall  I  say,  when  I  feel  so 
much !  May  God  support  and  strengthen  you !  He  does, 
and  He  will :  that  is  so  entirely  my  confidence,  that,  most 
strangely,  as  it  might  seem,  I  cannot  be  alarmed  about  you, 
altho'  the  circumstances  of  danger  in  which  you  are  placed 
are  for  ever  present  to  me : — the  will  of  God  is  inscrutable ! 
but  of  His  dispensations  we  see  but  a  part — they  must  be 
completed  elsewhere,  in  fulness  of  justice,  and  perfection 
of  mercy.  'Ese  cuerpo  fue  depositario  de  una  alma  en 
quien  el  Cielo  puso  infinitas  partes  de  sub  riquezas :'  on  this 
fact  let  us  rest — leaving  what  we  valued  to  the  will  of 
God,  who  has  not  created  any  man  ( for  nought.'  He  has 
but  taken  that  away,  which  in  this  mortal  state  was  incom- 
petent to  farther  progress  towards  the  end  and  object  of 
moral  existence.  That  we  do  not  know  what  the  divine 
mercy  has  in  reserve  for  such  as  have  not  complied  with  the 
only  conditions  on  which  we  believe  it  can  be  granted — 
need  not  distress  us :  God  has  ways  of  helping  that  we 
know  not  of. 

" ....  To  walk  thus  in  the  valley  of  the  shadow  of 
death  is  an  awful  thing !  to  see  the  destroying  angel  almost 
in  visible  form,  and  his  shafts  flying  in  every  direction — a 
thousand  falling  in  our  sight,  and  hundreds  at  our  right 
hand !  If  indeed  we  at  last  are  spared,  should  we  not  look 
upon  ourselves  as  consecrated  by  the  fiery  ordeal  to  work 
the  work  of  God  in  the  remainder  of  life,  more  especially  ? 

11  May  God's  grace  be  upon  you — better  than  I  can  wish 
— above  all  I  can  conceive  !" 

"  SepL  2. — Should  Lepsius  arrive,  will  you  not  offer  him 
to  occupy  your  vacant  bed  at  Villa  Piccolomini.     Pray 


456        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OY   BARONESS   BUXSEN. 

assure  him  of  being  very  welcome  to  me — and  surely  after 
the  wholesome  air  in  Tuscany,  he  should  not  brave  the 
pestilence  in  Home.  If  you  could  come  for  a  night,  you 
could  get  sleep  here — but  I  cannot  be  of  opinion  that  you 
ought — I  believe  you  would  drive  back  to  Rome  more  sus- 
ceptible of  poisonous  air  for  having  inhaled  better.  And 
somebody  might,  like  Kellermann,  send  to  you  at  five 
o'clock  in  the  morning !  You  see  how  I  reckon  upon  your 
not  wanting  Lepsius  to  stay  with  you.  I  think  the  increase 
of  anxiety  would  do  away  with  all  comfort  from  his  pre- 
sence, and  an  occasional  hour  of  solitude  must  do  more 
good  than  harm,  for  in  such  solitude  you  can  go  to  Him 
who  alone  can  give  strength  for  the  hour  of  exertion." 

11 5  Sept,  1837. — What  you  say  about  the  frUche  Itletu- 
hauch  that  you  experienced  in  the  presence  of  Lepsius, 
struck  me  with  reference  to  myself.  I  am  used  to  inhale 
nothing  but  that  atmosphere  of  life,  and  now,  unless 
Lepsius  brings  it,  where  should  I  find  it?  When  my 
husband  is  at  home,  all  that  lives  in  his  neighbourhood 
must  be  alive" 

"  7  Sept. — I  was  affected  indeed  by  the  account  of  the 
two  deathbeds.  What  scenes  you  had  to  go  through !  It 
is  self-evident  that  one  has  only  to  thank  God  for  having 
graciously  removed  Mrs.  Vaughan  from  a  world  with  which 
she  could  not  contend :  and  that  we  do  not  equally  feel  tho 
reasons  for  thanking  Him  for  the  removal  of  Kellermann, 
is  owing  to  our  short-sightedness." 

*!10  Sept. — In  the  first  place,  I  am  well — weak  to  be 
sure,  but  already  stronger  than  when  I  rose  this  morning, 
from  the  delicious  air : — the  weather  was  to-day  so  glorious, 
the  country  so  beautiful,  that  it  gave  a  sensation  of  melan- 


LAST   YEARS    AT    KOME.  457 

choly — I  do  not  mean  quite  that,  but  a  sobered  and  serious 
consciousness  of  beauty  and  splendour  not  intended  for  the 
every-day  use  of  this  '  worky-day  world.'  Secondly,  Hum 
thanks  than  I  can  write  for  your  kindness  and  an.vi 
but  you  must  not  distress  yourself  so  much,  any  more  than 
write  yourself  dead.  Remember  the  favourite  proverb, 
'Die  Suppe.'*  Pray  do  not  let  them  call  you  up  in  Ike 
night  every  time  a  sick  person  gets  a  fancy — Sie  tinti  mwh 
sin  Mensch.    Good  night !    God  bless  yon ! " 

"  12  Sept. — God  support  and  comfort  you  !  and  further, 
rouse  and  stimulate  you  to  the  fulfilment  of  all  He  will 
have  performed  by  you!  of  all,  for  which  He  granted  you 
the  powers  and  gifts  you  possess!  They  were  not  intended 
for  ornaments,  nor  playthings. 

"Meyer  frightens  me  with  accounts  of  the  threats  of 
burning  the  hospital. — But,  God  can  help." 

"23  Sept. — God  bless  you!  do  not  be  in  any  alarm 
about  me,  because  I  tell  you  the  truth,  that  I  feel  neither 
active  nor  cheerful." 

To  her  Mother. 

"25  Sept.,  1837. — On  Thursday  I  went  to  Borne  to  muko 

preparations    for    packing,    &c I    returned  quite* 

depressed  by  the  melancholy  state  of  everything — AagiA.i;.-. 
coming  to  meet  me  on  the  stairs,  like  a  ghost — Tom . 
not  there,  who  was  always  thereon  previous  occasions— 
Pietro  greatly  altered  by  what  he  has  gone  through  i 
everybody  I  saw  grieved  at  our  departure,  which  as  far  as 
Angelina  is  concerned,  is  really  the  greatest  misfortune, 

never  eaten  so  hot  as  brought  m 


458        LIFE   AND   LETTERS    OP   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

apparently,  that  could  happen  to  her,  as  to  which  I  know 
not  how  to  offer  her  consolation." 

"  Rom*,  2  October,  1837. — Here  I  have  been,  my  own 
dearest  Mother,  since  the  day  before  yesterday,  and  I  am, 
and  have  been,  in  such  a  whirl  of  business,  that  only  for 
moments  can  I  be  conscious  of  the  sensation  of  leave- 
taking.  I  know  as  a  fact  that  I  have  left  Villa  Ficcolomini, 
probably  never  to  see  it  again  :  but  having  no  leisure  to 
dwell  on  the  feelings  and  reflections  called  forth  by  that 
fact,  I  have  been  enabled  to  avoid  all  enervating  emotion. 
How  I  am  to  give  you  an  account  of  what  I  have  done,  or 
am  likely  to  do,  I  know  not :  for  how  I  am  to  finish  what 
is  to  be  done  in  ten  days,  is  beyond  my  conception.  Pack- 
ing up  is  the  least  part.  The  most  necessary  part  for  you 
to  know  is  that  I  am  well  and  strong,  which  is  more  than 
I  have  felt  for  near  a  month :  just  the  last  four  days  I 
have  experienced  a  vast  difference,  without  knowing  why 
or  wherefore  except  that  one  must  never  doubt  having  the 
strength  granted  that  is  necessary,  whether  of  body  or 
mind." 

It  was  after  all  this  that  Madame  Bunsen  beard,  and 
received  with  equal  equanimity,  that  all  was  changed, 
Bunsen  was  to  return  to  Borne — the  departure  was  in- 
definitely deferred. 
Madams  Bcssen  to  her  Mother. 

"  1  Nov.,  1837. — I  have  read  some  part  of  the  '  Life  of 
Sir  Walter  Scott,'  with  the  greatest  pleasure  and  interest : 
though  it  is  often  a  very  melancholy  pleasure ;  it  is  some- 
thing like  watching  a  boat  riding  on  the  smooth  surface 
with  swiftness  imperceptibly  increasing,  knowing  as  we  do 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  459 

that  a  few  miles  further  on  is  the  waterfall,  down  which 
the  same  current  will  dash,  carrying  the  same  frail  bark 
to  unavoidable  destruction.  He  was  reserved  to  do  bitter 
penance  for  the  political  and  literary  pique  which  tempted 
him  to  engage  in  booksellers'  speculations,  and  render  his 
talents  mere  instruments  of  trade  and  profit.  I  often  think, 
in  considering  life  and  biography,  of  a  verse  of  Gothe, 
signifying  '  Every  error  finds  its  retribution  on  earth.'  I 
firmly  believe  this  to  be  true,  distinguishing  error  from 
sin :  for  sin  the  Christian  dispensation  offers  an  all-suffi- 
cient atonement,  to  those  who  will  become  partakers  of  it, 
but  that  atonement  applies  to  another  state  of  existence, 
and  cannot  shield  us  from  the  consequences,  which  in  the 
scheme  of  God's  moral  government  of  the  world  are  in- 
separably annexed  to  certain  courses  of  feeling  and  action. 
It  is  not  often  that  we  can  know  enough  of  the  history  of 
our  fellow-creatures  to  trace  this :  but  reflection  upon  our 
own,  when  we  try  to  tell  ourselves  the  truth  without  self- 
deception,  will  often  reveal  the  fact,  which  I  think 
Madame  de  Stael  had  in  her  mind  when  she  wrote — '  Vous 
souffrez  longtems,  vous  prosperez  longtems,  sans  1' avoir 
merite,  quand  tout  a  coup  la  scene  se  change,  le  mot  de 
votre  enigme  se  revele ;  et  le  mot,  la  conscience  l'avait  bien 
dit,  avant  que  le  destin  ne  l'eut  repete.' 

"After  tea,  Abeken  reads  to  me,  and  I  work  cross-stitch 
on  week  days,  and  treat  myself  to  drawing  on  Sunday 
evenings.  What  he  reads  is  generally  Niebuhr's  '  Roman 
History,'  which  he  helps  me  to  understand :  for  though  an 
inexhaustible  mine  of  information  to  the  learned,  it  is  too 
full  of  the  language  of  allusion  and  suggestion  to  be  acces- 
sible to  the  ignorant." 


460        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


Bunsen  to  Mrs.  Waddingtok. 

Berlin,  12,  Oct  1837. — Six  weeks  ago  it  was  almost 
decided  that  I  was  to  remain  here,  as  the  King's  Envoy, 
but  with  a  special  commission  for  a  year.     This  has  been 
one  of  the  most  trying  epochs  of  my  life.     I  could  not 
obtain  decision  lefore  the  25th  of  September,  and  this  was 
evidently  the  last  time  to  write  to  Fanny  and  bid  her  come 
over  the  Alps  with  all  our  treasures.    What  was  to  be 
done  ?    To  tell  F.  to  prepare  for  the  probability,  do  every- 
thing preparatory  for  the  journey,  and  still  be  not  dis- 
appointed if  at  last  the  thing  was  settled  definitively  for 
the  contrary.    I  knew  her  great  soul  could  bear  such  an 
uncertainty,  such  a  trial.     No  sooner  had  she  received  the 
intimation  (without  the  reasons,  for  I  was  not  allowed  to 
write  them)  in  the  midst  of   cholera  and  quarantines, 
and  stoppages  and  cordons,  and  all  sorts  of  disorders,  vexa- 
tions, dangers  of  life,  murders,  &c,  than  she  settled  every- 
thing at  Frascati  and  at  Borne,  packed  up,  made  arrange- 
ments for   everything,  and  still  did  nothing  that  could 
commit  her,  if  we  did  not  go.    But,  what  is  more  admira- 
ble still,  is  that  she  does  not  complain  any  more  of  the 
hardness  of  uncertainty,  than  of  the  difficulty  of  overcoming 
trials  which  men    declare  insurmountable.     Her  letters 
state  every  difficulty,  but  each  statement  is  followed  by 
such  expressions  as:    'Never  mind — vedremo  and  I  shall 
get  through  it — all  will  be  done  that  must  be  done — I  feel 
as  high-spirited  as  ever,'  &c." 

Madame  Buxsen  to  Bunsen. 

"  14  Oct.   1837.— Lord  Clifford  has  called.     He  spoke 
of  the  dreadful  period   that  Borne  had  passed  through, 


LAST  YEAKS    AT  ROME.  461 


in  which  his  active  benevolence  has  been  universally 
acknowledged;  and  said  justly,  that  the  death  of  about 
ten  thousand  people  who  had  not  the  means  of  living  (the 
whole  mortality  is  estimated  by  moderate  persons  at 
1 2, 000)  is  not  the  calamity :  but  rather  the  difficulty  of  pro- 
viding for  the  four  thousand  orphans  left — that  there  had 
been  an  immense  sum  collected  for  the  sufferers  in  cholera, 
and  a  number  of  plans  made  for  disposing  of  it,  but  not 
one  of  those  plans  executed,  and  therefore  little  or  no  help 
had  been  received  from  it.  He  related  anecdotes  proving 
the  sacrifice  of  lives  occasioned  by  the  brutal  removal  of 
the  sick  from  their  own  beds,  at  a  moment  when  they 
most  required  medical  treatment,  and  transporting  them 
to  hospitals  miles  distant,  often  to  one  or  two  in  succes- 
sion, until  a  vacant  bed  could  be  found,  which  bed 
received  the  patient  but  to  expire.  In  short,  the  whole 
substance  of  his  communications  proved  a  state  of  vicious 
disorganization  everywhere. 

"I  hear  of  one  Pasquinade,  and  but  one  as  yet,  about 
the  cholera.  Pasquino  says — 'Ma  come,  Signor  Abbate 
cholera,  le  abbiamo  ricevuto  in  Eoma  con  tante  cerimonie, 
con  illuminazioni,  processioni,  feste,  e  lei  non  ha  avuto 
tanta  creanza  chi  di  far  visita  n&  dal  Papa,  ne  dai 
Cardinali ! '  The  cholera  answers  '  E  vero, — ha  mille  volte 
ragione ;  per  questa  volta  parto,  ma  poi  tornerd,  e  riparero 
il  mancamento ! '  It  is  a  fact  that  the  Pope  refused  to  let 
his  physican,  who  was  shut  into  the  Quirinal,  go  to  a 
choleric  patient." 

"18  Oct.  1837. — They  now  assert  here,  in  the  face  of 
facts,  that  the  cholera  has  ceased — having  on  Sunday 
sung    a    Te    Deum  at   Sta.    Maria    Maggiore,    in    the 


i 


462        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


Pope's  presence,  for  the  removal  of  the  scourge,  and  on 
Monday  a  Requiem  at  St.  Peter's  for  those  who  had  died 
under  it.  We  went  to  St.  Peter's  where  the  cata/alco  was 
raised  in  that  arm  of  the  cross  were  the  Lavanda  takes 
place,  and  it  had  a  fine  effect :  but  there  were  no  benches 
for  the  Corps  Diplomatique,  or  for  anybody  but  the  dig- 
nified clergy,  and  altogether  not  many  people  were  in  the 
church,  the  rest  of  which  was  decked  out  in  preparation 
for  a  Beatification,  which  is  to  take  place  next  Sunday. 
Various  miracles  of  the  Beato  were  painted  in  the  church, 
with  different  inscriptions,  one  of  which  is  that  verse  of  one 
of  the  Psalms,  with  which  you  have  often  been  edified, 
and  once  together  with  Chateaubriand.  I  shall  write  the 
Latin  wrong,  but  you  will  recollect  it — '  quod  non  cognori 
litteras ' — therefore,  I  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven !  "* 
"23  Oct.  1837. — Your  dear  letter  containing  so  many 
proofs  and  expressions  of  your  love,  might  well  make  all 
the  amends  possible  for  the  tidings  of  new  delay  as  to  your 
return.  May  you  but  be  here  at  Christmas,  my  Dearest ! 
I  thank  God  for  the  assistance  granted  to  get  us  out  of  our 
difficulties,  but  am  lost  in  conjecture  how  you  could  con- 
trive to  obtain  it !  now  that  we  do  not  make  a  journey : 
but  I  will  be  contented  in  this  matter,  and  so  many  others, 
with  the  fact,  until  I  can  get  the  explanation.    What  you 

*  A  few  days  after  the  Polignao  Ministry  had  been  established  by 
Charles  X.,  Bunsen  was  visiting  the  Sistine  Chapel.  He  had  been 
conversing  with  one  of  his  colleagues  on  the  most  unexpected  appoint- 
ment which  had  taken  place,  and  the  collocutor  had  just  remarked 
upon  Polignac's  unfitness  and  almost  entire  want  of  the  most  ordinary 
knowledge,  when  the  choir  set  in.  The  first  Psalm  sung  contained 
the  words  quoted.  Bunsen  pointed  them  out  to  his  neighbour,  who 
'^ied  in  vain  to  look  serious  for  the  rest  of  the  service ! 


LAST  YEAKS  AT  ROME.  463 

Bay  of  a  '  sorgenfreies  Lehen '  would  be  a  great  comfort  to 
have  verified,  but  unless  tbe  habitual  state  of  thing*  is  to  be 
placed  on  a  different  footing,  leaving  tbe  circle  of  receipt 
always  a  little  wider  than  that  of  expenditure,  we  shall  be 
only  ausser  Sorgen  for  a  given  time. 

"  My  Best-Beloved,  there  is  nothing  more  certain  than 
that,  if  one  did  not  ungratefully  forget  the  gratifications 
one  is  allowed,  a  harmless  wish  is  sooner  or  later  gratified, 
oftener  in  life  than  one  is  apt  to  think.  How  often  I  have 
wished  that  I  could  ever  be  allowed  a  time  to  enjoy  Home 
in !  and  regretted  never  being  there  at  a  period  when 
weather,  season,  and  leisure  were  together  favourable  to  a 
free  and  comfortable  existence.  Now  this  month  of 
October  is  of  real  perfection,  the  sky  clear,  the  air  fresh, 
the  sun  brilliant,  no  strangers  here  to  take  up  one's  time, 
no  social  trammels  to  prevent  the  free  disposal  of  it.  So  I 
go  out  daily,  and  every  day  see  something  interesting: 
there  is  one  great  want,  that  you  are  not  here,  but  what- 
ever I  see,  I  live  in  the  hope  of  seeing  it  again  with  you. 
I  was  the  other  day  at  S.  Lorenzo,  and  after  dinner 
Abeken  read  what  you  have  written  about  it.  The  aspect 
of  the  burial-ground  is  comfortless,  but  yet  more  shocking 
is  it  to  see,  that  those  who  have  died  of  cholera  are  treated 
there  as  excommunicated :  a  hole  broken  in  the  enclosure- 
wall,  serves  as  a  passage  to  the  open,  unenclosed,  uneven 
field,  in  which  long  rough  furrows,  covered  with  loose 
earth  as  if  by  the  plough,  show  where  the  human  seed 
divine  has  been  deposited.  Tommaso  however  was  laid  in 
the  consecrated  ground  of  the  cemetery,  intended  for  those 
mortidi  mali  pii>  for  that  is  the  phrase,  to  distinguish  cholera 
as  male  impio : — the  heathen  had  justex  notions,  for  they 


r 


464        LIFE   AND    LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUSSES. 

thought  the  special  scourge  of  God  had  a  sanctifying  influ- 
ence. The  reason  that  Tommaso  and  many  others  came  into 
the  more  decent  place,  was  the  creditable  one  that  '  quttti 
lughi  per  li  eolerici  mm  eram  allora  termiruUi,"  and,  as 
you  know,  the  date  of  his  burial  ws  the  28th  August, 
eight  days  after  the  existence  of  cholera  was  admitted,  and 
four  weeks  after  it  had  begun.  It  is  a  moat  extraordinary 
fact,  that  as  far  as  I  can  procure  information,  he  was  the 
only  sufferer  who  received  decent  burial,  always  excepting 
the  Protestants.  Fietro  accompanied  the  funeral  procession, 
and  assures  me  the  priests,  ten  in  number,  with  the  Archi- 
prete  at  their  head,  followed  the  corpse  to  the  grave,  where 
the  absolution  was  performed  by  the  Archiprete  according 
to  rule ;  whereas  Monsignor  Chigi  was  followed  only  by 
two  empty  carriages,  two  tarci  a  ttnto  being  borne  by  the  side 
of  the  borrotced  hearse  containing  his  remains,  and  not  a 
single  priest  was  there.  The  impression  must  have  been, 
that  as  the  Protestants  bury  their  own  dead  reverently, 
you  would  expect  that  your  servant  should  be  interred 
with  decency,  as  it  was  done  at  your  expense  :  and  Pietro's 
witnessing  the  whole  probably  did  much  to  secure  the 
performance  of  what  was  undertaken." 

"  26  Oct.,  1837. — My  Dearest,  it  has  been  an  event  in 
my  life  to  become  acquainted  with  the  tragedies  of  Sopho- 
cles, which  Abeken  has  been  reading  to  me.  0  !  I  cannot 
wonder  at  the  enthusiasm  these  ancient  Greeks  inspire,  it 
would  only  seem  as  if  not  half  enough  had  been  said  of 
ltn>  sublimity  of  their  conceptions.  There  is  an  intensity 
of  beauty  and  grandeur  in  the  two  (Edipus-pieces,  to  which 
only  that  of  the  remains  of  their  sculpture  can  be  com- 
pared :  with  all  the  interest  attending  individuality,  with 


LAST  YEARS  AT  HOME.  465 

all  the  greatness  of  abstractions ! — all  the  tenderness  for 
others,  of  which  the  human  heart  is  capable,  with  all  the 
fortitude  of  self -sacrifice  to  religious  convictions ;  none  of 
that  weakness  of  feeling,  which  after  all  is  grounded  in 
selfishness  or  self-compassion ! — the  laws  of  God  through- 
out held  paramount  to  all,  no  rebellion  against  eternal, 
immutable  truth !  in  short,  in  the  real  sense  of  the  word, 
religion,  and  true  religion:  although  but  the  dawn,  yet 
awaiting  the  perfect  day.  These  readings  take  place  after 
tea,  whenever  Buch  and  his  satellite  Urlichs  go  to  the 
theatre  together." 

"  22  Nov.,  1837. — Yesterday  your  youngest  son,  my 
most  particular  delight,  asked  to  go  up  the  tower  of  the 
Capitol,  and  your  eldest  daughter  condescended  to  wish  to 
see  a  gallery.  So  we  enjoyed  ourselves  amongst  the 
Corsini  pictures,  and  then  walked  in  the  Corsini  gardens 
to  the  top  of  the  Janiculan,  the  prospect  glorious,  the  air 
clear  as  crystal,  the  Velino  and  Leonessa  each  one  mass  of 
snow.  I  have  been  lately,  with  the  children  and  Abeken, 
in  several  vigne  on  the  Aventine,  from  each  of  which  there 
is  a  new  and  beautiful  point  of  view:  and  enjoy  the 
thought  of  making  Sunday  walks  thither  with  you,  my 
Dearest,  whenever  you  are  really  here  again:  the  time 
grows  more  and  more  tedious,  the  more  the  time,  please 
God,  approaches." 

"  25  Nov. — Frances  and  Mary,  Theodore  and  Theodora, 
with  Abeken,  have  accompanied  me  to  the  top  of  the  tower 
of  the  Capitol,  where  we  long  enjoyed  ourselves,  basking 
in  the  sun,  and  beholding  the  prospect.  Afterwards  we 
went  into  the  Museum  for  a  short  time,  and  concluded  with 
the  garden." 

VOL.  I.  H  H 


466        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

"  27  Nov.,  1837.— I  have  been  reading  the  life  of  Walter 
Scott,  in  which  I  have  an  indescribable  interest.  But 
Walter  Scott  was  in  a  melancholy  manner,  the  man  of  hi* 
own  time — a  time  in  which  men  made  use  of  their  powers, 
and  gifts,  and  qualities,  to  produce  effect,  attain  an  end, 
among  their  contemporaries,  in  short,  made  a  gambling 
speculation  with  their  talents,  instead  of  aiming  after  an 
ideal  standard,  and  seeking  to  satisfy  their  own  conceptions 
of  excellence.  Walter  Scott  did  not  like  his  own  writings, 
in  particular  his  own  poetry,  but  he  wrote  with  spirit,  as 
an  actor  performs  a  part  in  which  his  feelings  hare  no 
share,  enjoying  the  sympathy  and  applause  of  the  public : 
and  afterwards  reckoning  upon  that  sympathy  and  applause 
as  a  ground  of  speculation,  to  help  him  out  of  pecuniary 
difficulties  into  which  he  had  unnecessarily  fallen.  Yet 
his  was  a  fine  mind,  and  his  letters,  which  express  his 
feelings  and  affections,  have  an  indescribable  charm. : 
his  liberality  of  sentiment,  and  delight  in  the  writings 
of  contemporaries,  is  most  amiable,  but  he  does  not  appear 
to  have  had  any  more  critical  judgment  than  Overbeck  as 
to  the  works  of  contemporary  painters,  and  probably  for 
the  same  reason,  supplying  by  his  imagination  all  that  was 
wanting. 

"I  have  now  proceeded  with  Abeken  to  the  end  of 
Niebuhr,  and  can  conceive  what  you  must  feel  at  the 
melancholy  and  sudden  break  at  the  end  of  the  third 
volume :  it  gives  an  awful  consciousness  of  what  death  is, 
that  breaking  off  in  the  midst  of  the  fullness  of  life,  when 
the  current  of  thought  seemed  setting  so  strong.  But 
nobody  can  ever  continue  that  work, — his  mind  was  a 
magic  mirror  that  reflected  the  very  form  and  body  of 


LAST   YEARS   AT   ROME.  467 

ancient  Soman  time ;  and  that  magic  mirror  is  broken,  and 
the  vision  ceases." 

"9  Dee.,  1837. — I  have  nothing  to  tell,  but  dot  emge 
Lied — will  you  indeed  return  ?  can  you  return  ?  can  you  be 
on  the  way?  The  one  thought  of  your  being,  compara- 
tively speaking,  so  near,  confounds  all  other  thoughts !  and 
yet  there  is  enough  to  write  about  besides.  The  Pope  has 
called  a  Consistory,  and  held  an  Allocution,  on  the  subject 
of  late  events :  the  language  of  complaint  and  condemna- 
tion is  as  strong  as  possible,  with  the  highest  praise  of  the 
Archbishop  of  Cologne,  and  approbation  of  his  sentiments 
and  conduct.  But  from  the  tone  of  the  whole,  it  might  be 
supposed  that  the  question  of  the  mixed  marriages  was  the 
sole  point  at  issue,  and  that  opposition  to  the  wishes  of  the 
King's  government  on  that  head  was  the  sole  offence  of 
the  Archbishop.  It  is  made  a  great  ground  of  complaint 
that  the  intentions  of  the  King's  government  were  not 
made  known  here  until  after  they  had  been  executed." 

To  her  Son  Qeoege  (at  Schulp/oHe). 

"Some,  9  Dee.,  1837. — Your  three  letters  received  the 
same  day,  by  myself,  by  Abeken  and  Urlichs,  gave,  all 
taken  together,  a  very  complete  idea  of  your  present  situa- 
tion ;  and  it  makes  me  sad  enough  to  think  how  little 
comfort  you  can  have  in  it.  But  the  object  of  human 
existence  is  not  to  be  as  comfortable  as  possible  in  every 
stage  of  its  progress,  but  to  make  every  advantage  po- 
of the  circumstances,  whether  pleasing  or  unpleasing,  into 
which  the  path  of  life  may  successively  bring  you.  I  can 
well  guess  how  peculiarly  bitter  must  be  the  want  o£ 
sympathy  among  companions  in   study  and    play,    who 


468        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 


haying  all  to  go  the  same  way,  and  all  to  combat  with  the 
same  difficulties,  might  be  supposed  willing  to  show  others 
the  kindness  they  must  be  conscious  of  wanting.  But  a 
school  is  the  image  of  life,  schoolboys  do  but  show  what 
the  natural  man  is,  before  he  has  been  worn  smooth  in 
some  degree  by  the  world's  rough  billows ;  or  what  is  not 
only  higher  and  better,  but  alone  efficient,  before  the  disci- 
pline of  the  cross  of  Christ,  received  by  a  free  and  willing 
spirit,  has  subdued  the  native  powers  of  hatred  and 
selfishness,  which  lead  the  natural  man  to  delight  in 
giving  pain  rather  than  pleasure,  because  he  looks  upon 
everything  desirable  which  another  enjoys,  as  stolen  from 
himself.  The  advantage,  however,  and  an  inestimable  one, 
of  the  foretaste  of  the  world  which  is  experienced  in  a 
school,  is  the  being  habituated  to  a  steady  course  of 
conduct,  with  responsibility  to  your  own  conscience  alone : 
i/aia  que  dots,  advienne  que  pourra' — as  the  old  French 
motto  of,  I  forget  what  French  king  says.  It  is  well  to 
have  experience  early  of  the  uselessness  of  endeavouring 
to  please  the  multitude — who  ever  follow  those  who  do 
not  run  after  them,  but  show  themselves  independent  in 
doing  right. 

"  Dass  dieser  Auf  enthalt  Epoch e  in  deinem  Leben  mache, 
konntest  du  nicht  verhindern ;  dass  sie  aber  deiner  werth 
sei,  hangt  von  dir  ab ! ' — I  trust  I  shall  find  my  George 
again,  having  by  God's  assistance  held  fast  and  improved 
the  notions  of  right  and  wrong  that  he  brought  from 
home,  and  being  confirmed  in  habits  of  conscientious 
activity  and  self-responsibility." 

Just  before  Christmas,  Bunsen  returned  to  his  family. 


LAST  YEARS  AT  ROME.  469 


Ifc  was  then  hoped  that  the  strong  feeling  evinced  by 
the  Pope  against  him — as  the  supposed  instigator  of  the 
Archbishop  of  Cologne's  arrest — would  abate  with  time, 
but  Gregory  XVI.  kept  his  word,  he  never  could  be 
induced  to  receive  Bunsen  again.  Meantime  the  letters 
which  Bunsen  had  written  requesting  leave  of  absence 
had  been  forwarded  to  Berlin,  though  from  his  strong 
faith  in  the  King's  friendship  he  did  not  expect  that 
the  permission,  which  it  would  have  been  a  mark  of 
confidence  to  withhold,  would  really  be  granted,  and 
when  on  March  4,  Madame  Bunsen's  birthday,  the 
whole  family,  surrounded  by  a  band  of  devoted  friends, 
went  to  spend  the  afternoon  under  the  pines  of  the 
Villa  Pamfili,  and  returned  with  "  loads  of  anemones 
and  sweet-scented  iris,"  they  little  imagined  that  they 
had  looked  upon  its  loveliness  for  the  last  time.  But 
there  were  those  in  Berlin  who  had  long  been  watching 
for  the  destruction  of  Bunsen's  court-influence,  and  who 
hoped  to  raise  themselves  by  his  ruin. 

To  her  Mother. 

"12  March,  1838. — I  have  now  to  inform  you  of  a 
plan,  which  I  delight  to  tell,  and  you  will  like  to  hear : 
only  I  beg  you,  as  I  charge  myself,  not  to  reckon  too 
absolutely  upon  its  execution,  that  I  may  not  have  to 
blame  myself  for  causing  disappointment  by  a  premature 
communication.  Charles  has  actually  written  to  ask  for 
leave  of  absence  to  spend  the  summer  in  England!  I 
know  not  how  to  believe  this  while  I  write ! — The  prospect 
of  such  a  summer,  passed  with  my  Mother  at  Hanover,  is 


470        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

almost  too  ideally  perfect :  Charles  would  go  to  London, 
visit  the  Puseys  and  Arnolds,  and  come  back  again,  and 
my  dear  Henry  would  come  to  Llanover  too,  if  his  grand- 
mother can  make  room  for  all. 

"  0  my  own  Mother,  how  much  I  have  to  tell  that  there 
is  no  time  to  write !  Charles  is  now  in  a  state  of  active 
energy,  which  is  more  consonant  to  his  nature  than  the 
passive  state  in  which  he  has  spent  the  last  few  months  : 
but  you  would  have  been  pleased  with  him  and  proud  of 
him,  if  you  had  witnessed  all  as  I  have  done.  And  hi* 
case  is  a  hard  one !  to  have  worked  so  hard  for  peace  for 
so  many  years,  to  have  had  his  plans  defeated  by  the 
dilatoriness  of  his  own  government  (you  know  when — in 
allowing  the  former  archbishop  to  die  without  having' 
brought  the  system  agreed  upon  into  practice),  and  now, 
having  done  more  than  the  world  will  ever  knotf  or 
believe  to  prevent  a  rupture,  to  be  publicly  accused  as  the 
principal  enemy  to  peace !  But  though  the  case  is  hard, 
it  might  be  yet  harder,  for  he  has  always  the  comfort  of 
enjoying  the  confidence  of  the  King  and  Crown  Prince, 
and  of  the  very  Altenstein,  who  might  be  jealous  of  him. 
as  his  supposed  successor,  if  he  was  of  a  little  mind :  to 
say  nothing  of  the  public  applause  that  has  been  granted 
him  in  Protestant  Germany,  for  having  been  the  cause  of 
rigorous  and  decisive  measures — though  that  sort  of 
applause  he  mistrusts  too  much  to  overvalue  it,  being 
caused  in  part  by  a  mistaken  notion  as  to  his  opinions,  or 
as  to  the  system  upon  which  he  would  act  if  uncon- 
trolled. 

"  We  have  gone  on  as  quietly  as  before,  except  one  day, 
when  we  had  here  to  breakfast  the  Duke  Bernard  of  Saxe- 


LAST  YEARS  AT   ROME.  471 

Weimar  (the  same  whose  travels  in  America  were  pub- 
lished), Prince  Liwen,  and  the  Count  and  Countess  Panin, 
who  are  Russian  subjects,  but  he  a  Greek,  and  she  a 
German :  after  breakfast,  which  was  at  half -past  twelve, 
Charles  took  them  a  walk  to  show  them  the  Forum. 

"I  have  always  omitted  to  tell  of  the  Baron  de  Thile, 
whom  Charles  brought  back  with  him  from  Berlin  as 
attache,  and  to  succeed  the  Baron  de  Buch  as  Secretary  of 
Legation,  in  short,  to  be  an  efficient  labourer  in  the  office. 
He  turns  out  all  that  could  be  wished  in  application  to 
business,  as  well  as  intelligence,  and  is  a  most  agreeable 
inmate,  full  of  information  and  interest  in  everything 
worthy  to  interest  an  intellectual  being.*  He  is  the  son 
of  a  general  officer,  whom  Charles  had  known  for  years, 
and  a  very  distinguished  person;  and  he  has  an  uncle, 
another  General  Thile,  who  is  very  kind  to  Ernest.  He 
said  to  Charles,  on  taking  leave  of  him  at  Berlin — '  I  give 
you  my  boy  (being  very  fond  of  this  nephew)  and  I  take 
yours  in  exchange ' — and  accordingly  we  have  heard  that 
he  has  the  kindness  to  let  Ernest  come  to  him  in  an 
evening,  with  one  or  two  young  officers  of  his  own  family, 
when  he  reads  with  them  the  history  of  some  military 
campaign,  with  remarks  and  explanations,  that  he  is 
highly  competent  to  make  interesting  as  well  as  in- 
structive." 

"  2  April. — Until  we  know  that  our  wishes  are  not  to 
be  granted,  we  may  continue  to  hope  they  will,  but 
Urlichs  has  not  been  sent  back  from  Berlin  yet,  and  we 

♦  M.  de  Thile  was  afterwards  Secretary  of  Legation  to  Bunsen  at 
Berne  and  in  London,  and  later  became  Under-Secretary  of  State  for 
Foreign  Affairs  under  Bismarck. 


r 


472        LIFE  AND    LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

shall  know  nothing  of  what  is  determined  there  till  he 

does  come We  have  been  enjoying  ourselves  at 

Tivoli :  we  all  went  thither  on  Wednesday  morning  and 
returned  Thursday  to  dinner.  Emilia  was  with  us,  and 
was  conveyed  on  an  ass  to  see  the  rocks  and  cascades,  to 
her  great  delight;  the  Baby  was  there  too,  and  enjoyed 
her  existence,  and  the  sight  of  the  world,  as  usual. 
Nothing  could  be  more  beautiful  than  the  spring-green, 
the  trees  everywhere  bursting  out,  and  thus  presenting  a 
variety  of  tints  greater  than  could  be  furnished  at  any- 
other  time  before  the  autumn ;  the  dark  ever-green  oaks, 
and  pines,  and  cypresses,  and  the  silvery  olives,  contrast- 
ing with  the  deciduous  trees,  particularly  in  the  Villa 
Adriana,  which  I  had  never  been  more  struck  with. 
Charles  enjoyed  himself  as  usual,  in  being  allowed  such  an 
interval  of  rest  from  care  and  trouble,  and  such  an  oppor- 
tunity of  air,  and  exercise,  and  peace :  Abeken  and  Kestner 
were  there  also.  We  dined  by  the  Temple  of  the  Sybil  in  the 
open  air,  and  remained  till  the  sun  had  set,  then  went  in, 
and  during  and  after  tea  read  Gothe  and  Shakspeare — in 
the  latter  finishing  Hamlet,  which  we  have  been  reading 
together  in  an  evening  occasionally  of  late." 

It  was  on  Easter  Monday,  as  Bunsen  and  his  family 
were  emerging  from  the  Protestant  chapel  where  they 
had  just  received  the  Sacrament,  that  Urlichs  met  him 
with  dispatches  from  Berlin.  The  news  they  contained 
was  a  practical  dismissal,  though  the  lingering  kind- 
ness of  the  King  caused  the  notice  to  be  so  worded  as 
to  give  least  possible  cause  for  mortification — Bunsen 


LAST  TEARS  AT  HOME.  473 

was  permitted  to  make  use  of  his  oft-requested  leave  of 
absence  for  a  journey  to  England ! 

Short  indeed  was  the  time  for  which  it  was  possible  to 
stay  in  the  Palazzo  Caffarelli — the  happy  home  of 
twenty-one  years — "  the  dear  Capitol,  the  one  idolised 
spot  on  earth,"  as  Bunsen  called  it  in  a  letter  to  Arnold. 
On  the  29th  of  April,  1838,  he  quitted  it  with  firm 
step  and  unbroken  spirit,  saying  to  his  wife,  "  Come, 
and  let  us  seek  another  Capitol  elsewhere." 

Madame  Bunsen  to  her  Son  George. 

"  It  was  impossible  for  me  to  go,  as  feeling  would  have 
prompted,  to  look  for  the  last  time  at  objects  of  interest 
without  end,  endeared  by  long  recollection ;  only,  in  the 
last  hour  of  daylight,  two  evenings  before  we  set  out,  I 
went  with  your  Father,  Abeken,  and  Theodore,  to  visit  the 
graves  of  your  little  brother  and  sister  that  lie  near  the 
Pyramid  of  Caius  Cestius,  where  I  gathered  the  first 
sweet-scented  rose  of  the  year ;  and  in  the  way  home  we 
entered  the  Colosseum:  and  the  very  last  evening,  your 
Father  and  I  went  to  take  leave  of  Valentini,*  whose  grief 
at  parting  with  us  I  shall  never  forget,  any  msre  than  the 
faithful  friendship  he  has  shown  us  for  so  many  years. 
By  accident  I  went  into  the  garden,  to  look  out  some  pots 
of  flowers  to  send  to  Kestner — and  felt  that  it  was  well 
that  business  called  me  away,  and  that  I  had  no  time  to 
indulge  in  feelings  which  can  do  no  good." 

To  Jur  Son  Ernest. 

"We  left  our  beloved  Borne,  the  home  of  so  many 
*  A  Roman  Banker  acting  as  Prussian  Consul. 


474        LIFE  AND  LETTERS   OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

years,  endeared  in  so  many  ways,  on  the  28th  of  April,  at 
half -past  6  in  the  morning ;  not  haying  received  till  Easter 
Monday  the  16th,  through  Dr.  Urlichs,  the  requested  leave 
of  absence  to  go  to  England.  I  think  you  will  give  us 
credit  for  having  got  ready  in  so  short  a  time,  considering 
that  before  we  got  into  the  carriage  everything  belonging 
to  us  was  packed — not  only  the  comparatively  small 
mass  that  we  carried  with  us,  but  thirty  large  cases-full : 
what  remained  was  either  the  Euerne  JBesiand  (that 
is  furniture  paid  for  by  the  King,  and  belonging  to 
the  Legation),  or  set  apart  to  be  sold  after  our  departure  by 
the  care  of  Abeken.  The  same  day  that  we  departed,  the 
Baron  de  Buch  brought  his  single  person  to  occupy  our 
room:  poor  Angelina  remained  established  as  Guarda> 
roba,  and  Pietruccio  as  Portiere  della  Legazione. 

"  It  was  the  most  beautiful,  calm,  sunny  morning  on 
which  we  beheld  Home  for  the  last  time :  and  we  drove 
from  that  abode,  so  long  our  own,  but  now  ours  no  longer, 
a  large  party;  our  own  open  carriage  was  put  into  re- 
quisition to  take  Dr.  Franz  as  courier  to  Berlin,  and  as  we 
supposed,  your  Father  with  him;  a  large  vetturino-car- 
riage,  with  a  French  vetturino,  was  to  take  me  and  the 
six,  with  the  maid  and  Caspar,  and  Dr.  Meyer  to  take  care 
of  us  in  your  Father's  stead :  and  further,  Kestner's  car- 
riage with  our  own  dear  horses  and  Luigi,  went  to  convey 
Abeken  and  Lepsius,  who  wished  to  accompany  us  as  far 
as  Monterosi,  and  that  we  might  have  an  opportunity  of 
seeing  those  two  friends  for  the  last  time,  I  went  in 
Kestner's  carriage  with  Abeken,  and  your  Father  took 
Lepsius,  and  Dr.  Franz  went  with  Meyer  in  the  -cabriolet 
of  the  vetturino  carriage.    At  last  we  parted  at  Monterosi 


LAST    YEARS  AT   ROUE.  475 

with  the  last  remnant  of  our  daily  life  at  Bome — Abeken 
and  Lepsius — but  bard  as  it  was,  it  cost  fax  less  than  to 
leave  what  we  shall  never  see  again :  we  may  hope  to  see 
them  again,  and  we  are  sure  of  their  affectionate  remem- 
brance wherever  we  aro." 

With  the  royal  sentence  of  removal,  Bunsen  Lad 
received  a  letter  from  the  Crown  Prince,  written  with 
his  wonted  kindness,  and  urging  that  if  Bunsen  were 
to  hasten  at  once  to  Berlin,  and  make  his  personal 
explanation  to  the  King,  all  might  yet  be  well.  Advice 
so  kindly  given,  could  not  be  neglected,  and  Bunsen 
determined  to  turn  towards  Prussia  rather  than  Eng- 
land ;  but  the  desire  to  linger  with  his  wife  on  thia 
their  first  and  last  journey  together  into  Tuscany,  so 
far  overcame  his  usual  promptitude  of  action,  that  he 
did  not  fairly  set  out  on  bis  journey  to  Germany  till  a 
week  after  leaving  Bome,  when  he  parted  with,  his 
family  at  Florence.  Thus  the  precious  chance  for  pes- 
sonally  establishing  his  own  justification  was  lost,  for 
at  Munich  be  was  met  by  what  amounted  to  a  prohi- 
bition to  approach  the  presence  of  his  sovereign,  and 
was  desired  "at  once  to  make  use  of  his  leave  of  absence 
for  his  journey  to  England." 

aTadakb  Bunsen  to  Abeken. 

"Florence,  Saty.  Morng.,  May  b,  1S38. — Not  till  this 
moment  has  it  been  possible  for  me  to  attempt  to  write, 
and  now  the  words  will  be  few,  and  probably  the  fewer 
because  the  world  of  matter,  of  thoughts  and  feelings, 


: 


476        LIFK   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   BUSSEN. 

threatens  to  choke  utterance.  That  I  should  really  have 
left  Kome,  not  to  return,  is  still  an  idea  that  I  do  not 
compass.  I  have  seen  at  Siena  and  here,  wonders  of 
ancient  art  that  deserve  more  days  of  contemplation  than  I 
have  had  minutes  to  give  them :  but  general  impressions  I 
hope  to  bring  away,  and  some  individual  images  will  not 
leave  me ;  in  particular  of  the  Chapel  of  Orcagna  in  8ta. 
Maria  Novella  and  some  of  the  pictures  in  Palazzo  Pitti." 

"  Sunday,  8J  p.m. — Here  I  sit  alone — the  children  gono 
to  bed,  and  their  father  gone  away : — another  event, 
another  parting,  in  this  time  of  events  and  strong  sensa- 
tions. I  have  to  be  most  thankful — may  I  but  feel  so  as  I 
ought ! — for  the  gift  of  those  eight  days  spent  with  him  as 
I  have  seldom  been  allowed  to  spend  any — in  undisturbed 
comfort  and  enjoyment.  He  has  been  in  perfect  health  of 
body  and  mind,  in  full  energy  and  calmness,  and  I  rejoice  to 
see  what  a  refreshment  this  journey  has  hitherto  been  to  him. 

"  I  cannot  thank  you  now  for  your  letter,  nor  for  all  the 
feelings  expressed  in  it,  and  in  your  whole  life  for  some 
years,  towards  me.  But  I  am  conscious  of  not  being  un- 
grateful, and  accept  as  a  free-gift  what  you  confer,  wishing 
that  I  was  what  you  believe  me  in  excellence,  and  very 
sure  that  my  affection  only  is  not  overrated  by  you.  God 
bless  you !  Be  assured,  that  I  cannot  pray  for  my  own 
children,  without  your  being  joined  in  idea  with  them. 
Much  I  could  say  on  the  text  you  start,  of  not  being 
separated  by  absence,  when  habituated  to  hourly  com- 
imiineation  of  thoughts  and  sympathyin  pleasures.  I  have 
often  felt  during  this  journey  as  if  you  were  near,  and 
wondered  at  the  dead  silence,  when  assured  of  your  feeling 
as  I  felt  at  the  sight  of  objects  of  nature  and  art." 


CHAPTER  XI. 

THE  FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND. 
"  Brama  assai— poco  spcra— nulla  chiede." 

TASSO. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Buksek  (after  he  had  set  out  for  Munich). 

"  Pianoro,  18  May,  1838. — Before  I  go  to  the  rest  I  much 
need,  I  must  have  the  satisfaction  of  addressing  a  word  to 
my  Best-Beloved,  and  more  than  ever  dear — to  thank  him 
in  the  first  place  for  being  what  he  is,  for  giving  me  ever 
fresh  reason  to  love  him,  for  satisfying  my  wishes  and 
expectations  from  him — although  they  are  not  trifling ; — 
for  my  soul  demands  of  him  to  grow  with  the  occasion,  and 
rise  with  the  opportunity,  to  bear  a  moral  proportion  to 
the  dispensations  of  Providence  he  is  called  upon  to  pass 
through:  and  this  he  has  hitherto  done,  and  may  God 
give  his  blessing  to  farther  progress !  may  He  give  wis- 
dom to  meet  the  conjuncture,  and  patience  to  take  every- 
thing in  good  part ! 

"  We  are  happily  arrived  on  the  northern  side  of  the 
Apennines,  having  crossed  them  prosperously.  Pisa,  Lucca, 
Pistoia,  Prato,  are  all  so  abundant  in  objects  of  interest 
that  it  was  hard  to  get  away  even  from  the  few  that  we 
could  allow  ourselves  to  look  at.     The  cathedral  of  Lucca 


M 
1 


478        LITE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BARONESS   SUSSEX. 

delighted  me — grand,  simple,  the  utterance  of  one  idea,  not 
overcharged  with  decoration.  There  I  made  acquaintance 
with  the  sculpture  of  Matteo  Civitali  and  saw  a  glorious 
painting  of  Fra  Bartolommeo.  But  in  another  church  of 
Lucca,  St.  Frediano,  the  frescoes  of  Buonamico,  and  a 
painting  of  Froncia,  perhaps  claim  the  first  notice,  and  the 
works  of  the  former  will  remain  with  me.  In  Pistoia  the 
frieze  of  the  hospital,  by  Luca  della  Bobbia,  is  alone  worth 
a  journey.  What  would  I  not  giro  that  you  had  seen  it, 
or  could  see  it !  But  believe  my  assurance,  that  it  is  the 
finest  of  his  works  that  I  have  seen — finer  even  than  that 
over  the  door  of  the  Cathedral  of  Pistoia.  At  Prato  we  only 
saw  the  cathedral,  which  is  in  itself  a  museum,  containing 
the  finest  of  the  works  of  Lippi,  and  treasures  of  sculpture : 
the  building  also  is  fine." 

"  Sotigo,  14  May. — We  had  time  to  see  everything  well 
at  Bologna :  the  Raphael,  the  Francia's,  the  Perugino,  the 
Timoteo  della  Vite,  are  indeed  treasures.  At  Ferrara,  only 
in  the  sacristy  of  S.  Andrea  did  I  observe  anything  that 
could  dwell  with  me — the  painting  attributed  to  Bonifaao, 
of  the  Flight  to  Egypt,  and  a  small  piece  by  an  unknown 
author,  representing  the  Flight  on  the  Nile,  the  Holy 
Family  in  a  boat  steered  by  angels,  which  I  never  saw  but 
in  a  drawing  of  poor  Lotsch.  The  sculpture  over  the  door 
of  the  Duomo  is  also  very  fine.  I  saw  other  pictures  of 
merit  in  the  churches  of  Ferrara,  but  altogether  the  best 
of  tho  Bolognese  school  appear  tame  and  lifeless,  with  little 
variety  of  composition,  though  their  colouring  is  fine,  and 
their  style  sober  and  dignified ;  so  that  one  is  gradually 
screwed  down  from  the  heights  of  Tuscany." 

"  T  mice,  18  May,  1838. — Tour  letter  is  indeed  a  surprise 


TUB   FIRST   RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  479 

to  me,  in  which  I  try  to  dwell  only  on  the  desirable  part, 
our  speedy  reunion,  for  which  I  am  most  thankful.  As  to 
the  cause,  whatever  it  may  be,  I  repeat  to  myself  that 
being  in  the  ways  of  Providence,  all  can  but  be  for  the 
best. 

"The  quantity  of  objects  of  high  interest  that  I  huvc 
seen  and  daily  see,  is  so  great,  that  it  will  be  well  if  I  run 
preserve  general  impressions  clear.  I  am  astonished  at 
the  riches  of  the  Venetian  School,  in  which  I  have  mode 
acquaintance  with  a  multitude  of  painters  whose  nam  I 
never  knew  before — and  the  architecture  is  an  unceasing 
delight." 

"  Sprctiam,  21  Mag. — We  are  advanced  into  the  hut 
portion  of  our  pilgrimage.  0  how  deliciously  we  floated 
in  the  'heiligelriihe'  over  the  lagune!  leaving  Tonic  and 
its  dependent  islands  behind,  and  seeing  before  us,  on  one 
side  the  Alps,  on  the  other  the  Euganean  Kills,  rising  over 
the  green  coast.  0  why  were  you  not  with  me!  But  you 
were  not,  because  it  was  not  in  the  way  of  Providence  Hint 
you  should  be,  and  because  nothing  is,  or  ought  to  £m 
perfect  in  this  world." 

To  A  HEXFJJ. 

"  Venice,  19  May,  1838. — Venice  equals  any  expectations 
I  could  have  formed,  but  the  general  impression  is  in  ■ 
what  I  expected  :  being  a  work  of  art,  art  can  give  an  ld*M 
of  it — not  like  Naples,  the  effulgence  of  which  '  Earth,  air, 
and  sea,'  no  hand  of  man  can  imitate  :  but  the  Canal.  ■; 
prepare  one  for  Venice,  without  lessening  the  effect  of 
reality.  For  the  riches  of  art  that  exist  in  Venice,  I 
was  not  prepared:  I  am  astonished  at  the  early  Venetian 


L 


480        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

school  of  painting — a  set  of  names  which.  I  for  the  most 
part  had  never  heard  before.  Then  the  abundance  of 
sculpture,  the  treasures  of  architecture:  the  absence  of 
commonplace  in  building  (for  everything  is  picturesque, 
everywhere  I  should  be  glad  to  draw),  all  things  contribute 
together  to  present  a  scene  of  geistige*  Schtcelgen.  We 
were  half  a  day  at  Padua,  where  I  should  have  liked  to 
have  staid  at  least  a  whole  day.  But  Pisa !  Lucca !  Pis- 
toia !  Prato !  I  had  not  anticipated  such  treasures  as  X 
found  in  a  mere  glimpse  at  the  three  latter :  and  the  first- 
named  is  beyond  all  that  one  could  imagine  of  it. 

"  A  letter  received  from  my  husband  from  Munich  gives 
me  the  most  unexpected  intelligence  that  he  will  there 
await  my  arrival !  and  that  we  travel  on  together.  I  hope 
he  will  have  written  himself  to  you  or  Kestner,  and  then 
you  will  know  as  much  as  I.  I  need  not  say  that  I  am 
lost  in  conjecture:  only  very  decided  instructions  could 
have  caused  such  a  change  of  plan.  It  must  be  for  the 
best,  because  Providence  would  have  it  so :  but  you  will 
believe  that  my  satisfaction  in  the  speedy  reunion  with. 
him  is  not  unclouded." 

"Munich,  3  June. — I  despair  of  giving  an  account  of 
Munich,  for  I  am  kept  in  such  continual  movement  and 
occupation,  that  I  shall  esteem  myself  lucky  if  I  get  time 
enough  to  pack  up  before  I  am  called  upon  to  get  into  the 
carriage.  This  has  been  a  time  of  uninterrupted  enjoy- 
ment, for  which  I  am  very  thankful :  I  have  not  had  a 
care  or  an  anxiety,  the  children  are  well  and  happy.  I 
met  my  husband  here  recovered  from  his  fatigue  and 
exertion,  and  enjoying  as  I  do  the  kindness  with  which 
we  are  received  by  every  one  with  whom  we  had  to  do,  and 


THE    FIRST   RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  481 

the  magnificent  works  of  art  that  are  here  in  progress.  I 
am  astonished  at  the  effect  which  Munich  produces,  coming 
to  it  as  I  do  from  the  wonders  of  art  in  Florence,  Pisa,  rid 
Venice.  I  had  imagined  that  all  must  seem  flat,  but  that 
is  not  the  case.  The  Last  Judgment  by  Cornelius  gains 
greatly  in  the  execution,  and  is  a  noble  work,  the  greater 
part  finished ;  other  parts  of  the  church  are  also  in  rapM 
progress,  under  the  hands  of  his  scholars,  executed  al'ti  t 
his  designs  in  very  different  degrees  of  excellence — thosb 
by  Hermann  are  admirable.  The  Basilica  (Ludwigskirch< 
I  do  not  admire  as  a  whole,  it  is  heavy  and  bold.  Tln> 
Allerheiligen  Kapelle  is  so  admirable,  that  all  propensity 
to  discover  blemishes  in  it  is  stilled :  I  have  been  th  ■  ■; 
twice,  and  long  together,  with  increasing  admiration  of  (he 
effect,  both  in  general  and  in  detail;  being  a  work  of  human 
skill,  I  suppose  there  must  be  faults  in  it,  but  I  gladly 
leave  those  to  other  people  to  discover,  and  rejoice  in  the 
gold  ground  (which  pleased  me  so  much  in  8.  Marco),  in 
the  proportion  of  the  figures  to  the  whole,  so  thoroughly 
enjoyable,  being  seen  without  difficulty :  in  the  selection  i  if 
subjects,  giving  a  complete  view  of  the  Old  and  New  Tes- 
taments, in  the  designs  and  their  execution;  in  the  adaptu- 
tion  of  ornaments  and  subordinate  parts — and  in  short,  in 
the  completeness  and  perfection  of  taste  which  pervaih-i 
the  whole : — the  merit,  as  I  am  told,  of  Hesse,  who,  as  n 
man  of  character,  controlled  the  architect  in  many  matters 
not  generally  the  concern  of  the  painter.  The  powers  of 
Schnorr  have  developed  most  satisfactorily.  A  great  dis- 
covery has  been  made  of  the  method  of  painting  in  en- 
caustic, practised  by  the  ancients,  and  the  frieze  of  the  hall 
of  Rudolph  of  Hapabiirg  has  already  been  finished  accord- 


482        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

ing  to  that  method — the  effect  superior  to  fresco,  as  admit- 
ting of  the  employment  of  all  the  resources  of  art,  and  yet 
possessing  all  the  advantages  of  fresco.  Hesse's  designs 
for  a  cyclus  representing  the  conversion  of  Germany  to 
Christianity,  are  most  satisfactory. 

"  4  June. — We  were  at  church  twice  yesterday, — the 
sermons  very  good,  Edelmann  and  Wagner :  the  effect  of 
the  voices  of  a  whole  congregation  in  the  singing  had  a 
fine  effect,  which  brought  tears  into  my  eyes,  unused  as  I 
am  to  hear  more  than  our  own  small  handful  in  the  Capi- 
tol. The  liturgy  I  missed  much,  as  you  will  easily  believe. 
To  return  to  the  account  of  things — the  painted  glass  win- 
dows are  fine  in  design,  arrangement,  and  colour,  and  the 
effect  of  the  Auer-kirche — already  finer  than  any  of  the  rest 
— when  they  are  all  put  up,  will  probably  annihilate  the 
other  churches,  with  all  their  merits.  The  creations  of 
Schwanthaler  are  everywhere— nothing  ever  equalled  his 
productiveness,  and  everything  he  makes  has  life  and  spirit 
and  beauty,  although  of  course  his  creations  are  unequal  in 
merit.  The  head  of  his  colossal  Bavaria  is  worthy  of 
Magna  Groecia :  as  fast  as  he  models,  his  colossal  statues 
are  cast  in  bronze,  by  a  man  full  of  spirit  and  intelligence. 
The  effect  of  the  Thron-Saal— columns  of  white  marble, 
every  alternate  intercolumniation  being  filled  by  a  colossal 
statue  of  gilded  bronze — the  ancestors  of  the  royal  house, 
will  confound  the  tinsel  splendour  of  most  other  royal 
apartments. 

"While  I  am  writing,  my  husband  is  closetted  with 
Schelling,*  who  has  been  here  three  hours,  and  with  whom 

*  F.  "W.  J.  Schelling,  a  metaphysician  of  great  celebrity  in  Germany, 
known  to  English  readers  of  the  time  through  Coleridge's  writings, 


THE  FIRSr  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  483 

we  are  to  dine.  We  were  at  a  supper  at  Maurer's  the  other 
evening,  in  honour  of  King  Otho's  birthday,  and  met  many 
remarkable  persons  there.  I  have  great  pleasure  in  the 
renewal  of  intercourse  with  my  sister-in-law,*  who  is  in 

better  health  than  I  ever  yet  saw  her The  children, 

as  well  as  ourselves,  have  been  received  with  such  eager  and 
animated  kindness  here,  by  everybody  with  whom  we  have 
had  to  do,  that  I  have  been  inexpressibly  gratified,  and  shall 
always  retain  a  most  cheering  recollection  of  Munich. 

"  6  June. — To-day  we  have  seen  the  royal  apartments — 
which  it  Would  take  long  to  speak  of  as  they  deserve. 
This  is  truly  royal  magnificence — all  expense  being 
lavished  upon  works  of  real  art,  and  real  taste,  and  no- 
thing upon  mere  upholstery  and  hangings.  The  designs 
of  Schnorr,  and  Kaulbach,  and  Schwanthaler,  are  very 
admirable." 

"Munich,  1  July,  1838. — I  have  just  finished  reading 

your  letters  by  the  Verona  courier To  give  vent  to 

all  the  feelings  and  thoughts  they  have  given  rise  to, 
would  require  the  writing  of  at  least  as  much  as  I  have 
received,  and  how  am  I  to  manage  more  than  one  line  per 
cent.  ?  But  luckily  in  feelings  such  mechanical  admeasure- 
ment is  impracticable,  and  I  need  not  distress  myself  with 
anything  I  hate  as  much  as  arithmetical  calculation :  for  as 
you  will  not  even  be  thanked,  I  can  but  say  I  accept  most 
affectionately  all  you  give.     Only,  whether  you  will  or  not, 


was  then  in  his  63rd  year.    Bunsen  had  sat  at  his  feet  when  very 
young.    He  was  so  fascinated  by  Schelling's  grand  attempts  and  by 
his  manner  of  unfolding  them  that  he  prolonged  his  stay  at  Munich 
chiefly  to  enjoy  his  company. 
*  Christiana  Bunsen. 


484        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF   BAROXESS   BUNSEX. 


I  must  thank  you,  praise  you,  approve  you,  what  you  will 
— for  giving  me  the  details  of  what  you  do,  whom  you  see, 
and  where  you  go — details  not  only  of  persons,  but  of 
places.  How  I  feel  the  mention  of  spots  that  I  have 
enjoyed,  I  will  not  say,  because  I  cannot  yet  refrain  from 
tears  when  I  think  of  them,  but  pray  continue  to  look  at 
them  for  me,  and  tell  me  when  you  have  done  so. 

"  To-day  is  our  wedding-day :  we  received  the  Sacrament 
at  the  early  separate  service  beginning  at  half -past  eight, 
and  returned  later  to  the  principal  service  at  ten,  and 
heard  an  excellent  sermon  from  Dr.  Fuchs.  You  will  not 
doubt  that  my  thoughts  reverted  often  to  Home,  and  to  the 
last  time  of  receiving  on  Easter-Monday — since  which  so 
much  has  happened,  both  of  fact  and  feeling,  and  at  which 
time  so  much  evil  was  apprehended,  which  it  has  pleased 
God  to  avert.     His  praises  are  yet  sung  upon  the  Capitol.* 

"  Pray  go  soon  to  Aquila.  It  is  so  cool  there  on  the 
high  plain,  that  you  might  even  make  a  summer  journey 
of  it,  though  September  or  October  would  be  better.  I  am 
glad  your  cousin  liked  it  so  much.  It  was  a  pleasure  to 
me  even  to  read  the  names  of  some  of  the  places  he  had 
visited,  and  to  think  that  he  had  admired  the  oaks  of  the 
Cicolano.    But  again  farewell  to  the  past !  and  hail  to  the 

present! — to  the  past  xa'P€ The  beautiful  season, 

and  the  glorious  Tyrol,  were  a  fine  introduction  to  Germany, 
and  nothing  could  be  more  pleasing  than  the  first  impres- 

*  This  refers  to  a  fact  which  Abcken's  letters  had  disclosed,  viz. 
that  the  Papal  government  attempted  to  close  the,  Protestant  German 
Chapel  at  Palazzo  Cafiarelli  within  a  few  hoars  of  Bansen*s  departure. 
However,  a  very  decided  protest  on  the  part  of  the  charge*  d'affaires, 
Baron  de  Buch,  caused  the  carabinieri  to  be  withdrawn  from  the  chapel- 
door. 


THE    FIRST   RETURN    TO   ENGLAND.  485 

sion :  then  Bavaria  and  the  Bavarians  do  but  confirm  the 
prepossessiou  I  always  had  in  favour  of  southern  G  ermany. 
The  aspect  of  the  people  here  is  most  refreshing,  all  seem 
well  off  and  comfortable  in  their  existence,  and  when  I 
pass  through  crowds  amusing  themselves  on  a  Sunday  in 
the  'English  garden,'  I  delight  in  the  good-humour<  <1, 
tranquil,  cheerful  counteaonces,  in  the  neat  and  decent 
clothing,  the  abundance  of  blooming,  well- cherished  chil- 
dren (who  seem  inseparable  from  the  pleasures  of  tL-ir 
parents),  and  in  the  lower  classes  the  number  of  pretty 
faces — not  handsome,  or  beautiful,  but  pretty,  and  only  in 
the  middle  or  lower  classes,  for  the  higher  classes  axe 
decidedly  plain  and  ungraceful.  I  have  only  seen  Iwo 
exceptions,  the  only  daughter  of  Staats  Bath  Maurer,  ami 
Julie,  the  youngest  daughter  of  Schelling.  You  ask  uiu 
verftingliehe  Fragen,  as  to  the  female  part  of  Munich  in 
general,  which,  in  general  terms,  are  not  answerable.  I 
am  very  grateful  for  the  kind  reception  I  hare  met  with 
everywhere,  but  I  think  the  only  woman  I  lib  (except 
those  two  or  three  girls)  is  the  wife  of  Professor  Hermann, 
a  droll,  original,  piquant,  kind-hearted,  fanciful  Bavarian. 
We  all  enjoy  our  existence  in  Munich,  the  fresh  mountain 
air  and  the  numerous  gardens  make  amends  for  not  being 
in  the  country,  and  the  environs  are  very  attractive,  as  Ea 
the  society  of  the  distinguished  persons  here  to  my  hus- 
band, who  is  very  busy,  and  very  much  in  his  element. 
The  dear  Baby  flourishes,  and  runs  alone,  and  grows  overy 
day  fatter  and  merrier;  it  was  a  great  gain  to  her  to 

remain  quietly  hero I  write  now  on  Sunday 

evening,  after  having  been  at  tho  dwelling-place  of  daudo 
Lorraine,  Hariachen,  and  the  Nockerschweig,  along  the 


486         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

elovated  bank  of  the  Iser.    The  afternoon  was  beautiful,  a 
sky,  clouds,  and  sunset — of  Italian  brilliancy ;  wood,  mea- 
dows, and  river — very  picturesque;  and  the  steeples  of 
Munich  crowning  the  distance.     I  can  make  but  one  objec- 
tion to  the  environs  of  Munich ;  the  impossibility  of  being- 
in  any  pretty  spot  otherwise  than  in  a  crowd  and  the  being 
able  to  find  something  to  eat  and  drink  just  everywhere. 
Those  are  recommendations  to  most  people,  but  to  me  they 
would  be  reasons  for  not  wishing  to  live  here — however  I 
suspect  that  in  many  things  the  South  of  Germany  may  be 
more  to  my  taste  than  the  North.    What  a  contrast  is  the 
walk  you  describe,  thro'  the  vigne  of  the  Aventine !  and 
how  many  such  have  I  made  in  Rome !    To-day,  from  old 
habit,  I  took  with  me  a  drawing-book  and  the  little  Dante 
— but  what  use  could  be  made  of  the  latter  but  to  show  it 
to  Schnorr,  who  thought  of  other  days — it  could  not  be 
read  in  as  we  sate  at  one  table  on  the  grass,  while  so  many 
other  tables  on  the  grass  were  filled  with  company,  very 
quietly  and  harmlessly  amusing  themselves  with  eating 
and  drinking  and  smoking!     But  while  I  communicate 
this  feeling,  I  admit  that  it  is  very  unfair,  for  why  should 
not  other  people  enjoy  a  pleasant  spot  as  well  as  I  ? — but 
this  shows  that  I  have  been  spoilt,  by  having  what  I  liked 
in  Italy  all  to  myself. 

"  I  have  drawn  here  and  there  upon  the  journey,  very 
little,  but  still  something.  The  first  night's  lodging  after 
Innsbruck  was  a  village  at  the  entrance  of  the  Zillerthal : 
and  from  thence  I  have  a  memorial.  On  Ascension  Day 
we  were  at  the  beautiful  Pusterthal,  before  and  after 
Brunecken :  after  having  slept,  for  the  first  time  in  Ger- 
many, at  Walschberg,  indescribably  caressed  and  made 


THE   FIRST   RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  487 

much  of.  We  read  the  Collect  and  Epistle  and  Gospel  of 
the  Church  of  England,  and  the  exquisite  hymn — 'Ihr 
auf gehobenen  Segenshande : '  and  that  my  thoughts  re- 
verted to  Borne  is  most  certain.  Pray  distribute  my 
affectionate  remonstrance  to  Kestner,  Lepsius,  Papen- 
cordt,  Urlichs,  Abekino,  Angelina,  &c.  The  children  are 
writing  to  Abekino— -a  work  of  time — and  send  their  kind 
Griisse." 

The  Bunsens  proceeded  by  Ulm  to  Frankfort,  where 
they  had  the  happiness  of  spending  some  days  with  the 
sympathising  friends  of  Roman  days — Radowitz  and 
Sydow:  from  Frankfort  they  followed  the  Rhine  to 
Rotterdam. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Abeken. 

"Frankfort,  13  August,  1838.— -We  had  good  weather  at 
Heidelberg,  and  thus  opportunity  of  enjoying  the  views 
from  and  of  the  castle,  and  certainly,  much  as  I  had  heard 
of  the  beauty  of  the  situation,  I  think  enough  has  never 
been  said  of  it.  I  regretted  only  that  time  did  not  allow 
of  our  going  up  the  hills  behind  the  castle.  We  took 
Emelia  up  to  it  on  an  ass ;  and  in  the  two  days  we  spent 
at  Heidelberg,  my  husband  had  full  opportunity  of  discus- 
sion and  explanation  with  Rothe,  much  to  his  satisfaction. 

"It  is  sorely  against  the  grain  that  I  compel  myself  to 
write  you  a  lecture,  but  I  have  long  had  the  reproaches  of 
my  conscience  for  not  doing  so.  I  delayed  it  for  some 
time,  making  allowance  for  the  disjointed  and  shaken 
state  of  thought  produced  by  our  departure:  but  three 
months  are  past,  and  the  matter  does  not  mend.    When  I 


•i 

A 


488         LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

thanked  you  for  mentioning  the  places  you  walked  to  and 
looked  at,  because  their  names  recalled  to  me  a  world  of 
pleasing  images,  I  did  not  mean  to  be  accessory  to  your 
writing  whole  pages  of  description.     It  is  not  for  my  own 
sake  that  I  complain  of  the  descriptions,  because  it  is  one 
of  my  sins  to  bo  fond  of  descriptive  poetry,  and  therefore 
to  be  able  to  swallow  more  descriptive  prose  than  canonical 
rules  will  admit  of :  but  they  do  you  nothing  but  harm, 
besides  consuming  time  that  you  know  well  how  to  employ. 
You  should,  in  every  sense,  besides  the  highest  sense  of 
the  word,  '  forget  those  things  that  are  behind,  and  stretch 
forward  towards  those  that  are  before : '  make  use  of  to- 
day  '  while  it  is  called  to-day.'     You  possess  gifts  that  if 
well  employed,  will  obtain  you  a  hearing :  and  those  who 
can  raise  their  voices  in  support  of  the  good  cause,  are  for- 
getful of  their  duty  if  they  do  not.     You  have  powers  to 
discover  and  point  out  to  others  where  the  truth  lies,  and 
why  will  you  let  the  right  moment  go  by  ?    I  know,  you 
tcill  not,  it  is  not  your  will  that  is  in"  fault :  but  time  and 
moral  strength  are  absorbed  in  sensation,  and  I  wish  you 
would  make  it  one  of  the  daily  points  of  self-examination 
what  portion  of  the  day  you  have  spent— -prodiguk — upon 
sensation'  or  effusion  of  feeling.     I  seem  to  myself  in  a 
merciless  mood,  but  I  must  further  protest  against  confes- 
sion of  sins,  and  communication  of  self-reproach !     I  speak 
by  experience,  that  no  self-reproach  serves  the  purpose,  but 
that  which  is  close  bound  in  rigid  silence  upon  the  con- 
science, admitting  no  alleviating  air  to  lessen  the  smart. 
All  oral  confession  partakes  of  the  evil  which  the  Catholic 
Church  has  brought  to  perfection :  we  ever  practically  con- 
found confession  with  atonement,  and  feel  lightened  of  our 


THE   FIRST   RETURN    TO    ENGLAND.  489 

burthen  after  apparent  humiliation,  as  if  wo  had  done 
great  things  towards  getting  rid  of  our  offences,  by  having 
admitted  their  existence. 

"Now  pray,  in  your  future  letters  tell  me  of  things 
tfojw,  and  not  felt — and  inform  me  of  the  portion  you  luivo 
accompli  shed  of  your  projected  work.  I  think  your  going 
to  Frascati  to  work  in  quiet  an  excellent  plan,  for  irt  Home 
you  hardly  can  be  undisturbed  :  but  if  you  bathe  in  the 
lake  at  sunset,  you  will  soon  haTG  the  fever  of  last  summer 
back  again.  Now  I  will  close  my  scold. — Ever  your 
affectionato  Mother,  F.  B." 

••Rotterdam,  20  Augu*t,  1838.— Tho  banks  of  the  Khine 
from  Mainz  to  Bonn,  equalled  anything  that  I  could  bare 
anticipated  in  beauty  and  interest ;  and  wo  had  a  fine  sun- 
set to  bohold  from  the  roof  of  the  cathedral  of  Cologne  : 
from  whence  the  picturesque  outline  of  the  Siebengebirge 
announced  their  volcanic  origin,  and  reminded  mc,  ia 
miniature,  of  the  Euganean  hills,  as  they  appear  from 
Venice.  Coblentz  and  Ehrenbreitstein  form  the  brightest 
passage  in  the  fleeting  vision,  which  I  can  yet  hardly 
believe  I  have  otherwise  enjoyed  than  in  sleep,  with  stu.ii 
resistless  rapidity  did  the  images  glide  by. 

"  This  steam- travelling  is  one  of  tho  first  in  the  catalog-no 
of  necessary  evils:  it  serves  tho  purpose  of  traversing  a 
large  extent  of  country  with  a  certain  economy  of  time  and 
money,  but  certainly  no  economy  of  strength.  I  am  not 
ill,  but  I  have  never  been  so  tired,  and  these  quiet  days  in 
Botterdom,  have  not  yet  rested  me.  We  leave,  please 
Qod,  to-morrow  in  the  Batavier.  "We  met  the  Oeheim 
Hath  v.  Toss  at  Frankfort  and  hod  his  agreeable  coin 
in  the  steamboat :  where  we  also  found  Mr.  Robert  Wfi- 


490        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


berforce,  and  had  much  pleasure  in  making  his  acquaint- 
ance. My  husband  has  j  ust  returned  from  Ley  den,  whither 
he  went  yesterday,  delighted  with  the  Egyptian  curiosities. 
Good  night,  God  bless  you ! " 

On  the  25th  of  August  the  family  arrived  at  the 
house  of  Mrs.  Hall  in  London,  whence  Madame  Bunsen 
proceeded  to  Wales  with  her  children.  Her  mother 
and  sister  met  her  at  Abergavenny,  where  her  arrival 
was  also  eagerly  awaited  by  the  venerable  Mr.  Powell, 
always  known  as  "  the  Vicar,"  who,  himself  a  man  of 
remarkable  intellectual  acquirements,  had  longed  to  see 
again  one  whose  dawn  of  excellence  had  excited  his 
regard  and  admiration.  At  the  principal  entrance  of 
Llanover,  the  avenue  was  hung  with  garlands  from 
tree  to  tree,  and  crowds  of  people,  amongst  whom  many 
well-remembered  faces  greeted  Madame  Bunscn's  re- 
turn to  her  early  home  after  an  absence  of  nearly 
twenty-one  years.  The  thing  which  she  spoke  of  as 
striking  her  most  in  Great  Britain,  after  so  many  years' 
absence,  was  the  smallness  of  the  rivers,  after  the  wide 
streams  of  the  continent.  "  Comme  c'est  petit !  cela 
parait  un  ruisseau,"  was  the  remark  of  the  little  Theo- 
dore upon  the  Severn  at  Gloucester,  and  the  Wye  and 
the  Usk  near  Llanover. 

A  visit  paid  to  Mrs.  Waddington  by  Lepsius  was  a 
great  delight  to  Bunsen  during  his  stay  in  South 
Wales.  The  friends  used  to  walk  for  hours  together 
upon  the  hills  in  eager  discussion  of  Egypt  and  its 


THE   FIRST  BETUKN  TO   ENGLAND.  491 

antiquarian  records,  or  to  sit  in  deep  converse  in  the 
churchyard  of  Llanffoist  under  the  yew-tree  of  a  thou- 
sand summers.  Another  of  Bunsen's  intimate  friends 
who  visited  Llanover  at  this  time  by  Mrs.  Wadding- 
ton's  invitation,  was  Bethmann  Hollweg,  afterwards 
one  of  the  personal  and  most  influential  friends  of 
Frederick  William  IV.  and  a  member  of  the  liberal 
ministry  of  1858, 1852,  and  I860.* 

The  children  of  Madame  Bunsen  have  a  vivid  recol- 
lection of  the  quiet  following  winter  passed  with  their 
grandmother  in  tbe  old-fashioned  "Upper  House" 
of  Llanover,  and  the  first  taste  of  English  country 
life  and  its  simple  interests  and  pursuits. 

Madame  Bunsen  to  Bunsen. 

"Llanover,  5  Sept.,  1838. — We  are  arrived  safely.  All 
possible  pains  was  taken  to  welcome  me.  My  sister  soda 
out  to  meet  me  at  Abergavenny,  and  fetched  me  in  bat 
own  carriage  with  four  horses,  and  my  dear  mother  m 
ready  to  receive  me,  with  her  carriage  for  the  children 
and  maids ;  the  bells  rang  at  Abergavenny  and  Llanover, 
and  at  tbe  entrance  gates  were  garlands,  and  musician*, 
and  people  waiting.  .  .  .  Yesterday  I  was  greeted  ivitli 
taterltindieche  Retjen,  but  to-day  it  is  fine.  I  have  found  tin* 
country  very  beautiful,  and  the  hills  higher  than  I  ax- 

•  M.  Hollweg  took  the  noma  of  Bethmann— German-fashion — n 
his  marriage -with  a  daughter  of  the  head  of  tbe  great  Frankfort 
hanking  -house.    Ho  was  Professor  of  Law  in  Berlin  and  Chai:  ■ 
of  tho  University  of  Bonn.    "With  Dr.  Wichern,  he  was  Founder  o( 
the  Inner  Mission.    He  died  at  his  beautiful  castle  of  Rheinedt  or.  tlis 


492        LIFE  AND    LETTERS  OF  BARONESS    BUNS  EN. 

pected,  but  I  am  surprised  at  the  narrowness  of  the  spaces, 
in  the  haunts  of  my  childhood,  which  I  had  supposed  much 
wider.  The  lowness  of  the  rooms  astonishes  me,  and  the 
6maUness  of  the  windows,  which  are  not  suited  to  so  cloudy 
a  sky." 

To  her  Son  Ernest. 

"  24  Sept.,  1838. — In  beautiful  autumnal  weather,  this 
country  appears  to  the  greatest  advantage,  and  although  I 
retrace  everything  as  well-known  objects,  I  pass  judgment 
on  all  things  as  new,  and  find  this  country  will  show  well, 
even  after  all  the  fine  scenery  I  have  viewed  elsewhere. 
The  works  of  nature  have  always  such  individual  attrac- 
tions, that  the  sight  of  one  more  need  never  be  spoilt  by 
the  recollection  of  another,  even  though  on  a  greater  scale, 
and  of  more  manifold  attraction.  I  am  much  struck  with 
the  luxury  in  garden  cultivation  that  is  everywhere  seen  in 
England,  far  different  from  poor  Italy,  where  everything 
might  be  in  far  greater  perfection,  were  nature  only  a  little 
assisted  by  industry.  It  is  a  most  curious  sensation  to  me, 
to  find  Henry  more  at  home  than  myself  in  my  own  coun- 
try, and  able  as  well  as  willing  to  help  me  everywhere.  I 
am  sorry,  my  dear  Ernest,  to  think  that  another  year  will 
end,  and  another  begin  without  my  seeing  you ;  but  I  hopo 
and  trust  the  consciousness  that  your  parents  are  not  near 
enough  to  you,  to  exercise  an  immediate  influence  to  urge 
or  restrain  you,  will  be  one  stimulus  more  to  induce  you  to 
act  in  all  things  as  they  would  wish  to  see  you  act, — seek- 
ing the  best  things,  and  the  best  people,  and  being  in  all 
points  actuated  by  a  6ense  of  duty.  '  Whatsoever  things 
are  just,  whatsoever  things  are  pure,  whatsoever  things  are 


THE    FIRST  RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  493 

lovely  or  of  good  report,  wherein  there  is  virtue,  wherein 
there  is  praise,  think  of  these  things,  and  do  these  things.'  " 

To  Abekex. 

"  Zlanover,  17  October,  1838. — Although  I  have  millions 
of  things  to  write,  I  must  spring  forward  to  the  present 
moment,  and  beg  you  to  fancy  us  all  together  with  my 
dearest  Mother,  Henry  included,  and  Lepsius  in  addition. 
In  two  days  Henry  must  return  to  Oxford,  and  in  a  few 
days  more  Lepsius  must  set  out  on  his  southern  pilgrimage, 
and  then  we  shall  be  reduced  to  ourselves.  Just  now  our 
enjoyment  is  complete,  the  Cymreigyddion*  uproar  being 
past,  and  the  milder  autumnal  sky  having  again  shown 
itself,  after  some  threatenings  of  snow  on  the  13th,  to  enable 
us  to  see  the  beautiful  country  to  advantage.  I  am  sur- 
prised at  the  beauty  of  this  neighbourhood,  seeing  it  as  a 
novelty,  though  so  well  remembered.  Lepsius  has  won 
the  first  place  in  the  heart  of  my  Mother,  and  has  been 
praised  and  admired  in  various  degrees  by  everybody  else. 
The  children  are  all  well  and  are  much  out  of  doors.  The 
darling  flourishes  under  the  peculiar  auspices  of  the  dear 
grandmamma,  whose  delight  she  is. 

"  Henry  came  to  us  in  town  the  26th  August:  the  4th 
September  he  helped  me  to  convey  the  whole  troop  down 
to  Uanover,  leaving  my  husband  in  London,  as  he  wished 
to  spend  some  days  longer  in  tho  British  Museum,  which 
we  had  visited  together  with  admiration  and  astonishment. 
But  it  was  otherwise  decreed,  for  a  rheumatic  pain  which 
had  begun  in  the  horrors  of  the  sea-voyage,  improved 

•  A  Welsh  Society  "which  then  met  at  regular  intervals  at  Abpr- 
gavenny  for  tho  distribution  of  prizes  for  Essays  and  Poetry  in  "Welsh, 
and  for  tho  competition  of  Welsh  harpers. 


494        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF    BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

suddenly  into  such  perfection  of  sciatica,  that  he  was 
obliged  to  take  to  his  bed.  On  receiving  this  melancholy 
account,  I  set  off  with  Henry,  leaving  the  six  children 
•with  my  dear  Mother,  and  returned  to  London,  where  I 

found  my  husband  up  again,  but  not  out  of  pain 

60  he  dispatched  business,  and  we  saw  again  the  British 
Museum  and  Westminster  Abbey,  and  on  the  22d  Septem- 
ber placed  ourselves  in  the  steam-carriage,  and  were  trans- 
ported 80  English  miles  in  four  hours  and  a  half,  to  Rugby, 
whither  the  kindest  invitations  and  our  own  inclinations 
urged  us.  Here  we  spent  five  days  of  great  enjoyment, 
rejoicing  to  find  visions  realised,  and  expectations  sur- 
passed, in  the  general  impression  made  by  Dr.  Arnold, 
his  wife,  and  family.  The  29th  September  we  reached  our 
present  home,  passing  through  Worcester  and  over  the 
Malvern  Hills,  and  I  was  glad  my  husband  made  his  ap- 
proaches to  Llanover  through  so  beautiful  a  country. 
Jane  Arnold,  the  eldest  daughter  of  our  friends,  accom- 
panied us,  having  been  invited  by  my  mother  and  sister, 
and  I  was  glad  to  have  her  longer  with  us,  having  a 
regard  for  her  as  a  sort  of  daughter. 

"  I  am  afraid  Marcus  Niebuhr  would  just  miss  you  at 
Rome.  I  never  had  time  to  write  to  you  of  my  meeting 
with  him  at  Munich,  or  of  the  indescribable  pleasure  I  had 
in  what  I  cannot  but  call  a  renewal  with  him,  for  I  have 
ever  thought  of  him  with  such  interest,  that  little  as  can 
now  be  traced  of  the  child  that  I  was  so  fond  of,  and  that 
was  so  fond  of  me,  the  connection  seems  not  broken ;  but 
I  have  a  satisfaction  analogous  to  that  of  seeing  a  son 
grown  up  in  a  long  absence  as  wishes  might  have  formed 
him.    Marcus  Niebuhr  is  not  as  he  once  was,  attractive  to 


THE    FIRST   RETURN   TO  ENGLAND.  495 

the  eye,  but  the  mind  seems  to  me  of  sterling  stuff,  and  to 
hare  taken  a  fine  polish,  and  I  should  have  been  very  glad 
to  have  had  the  means  of  knowing  more  of  him  through 
you :  for  my  own  opportunity  of  observation  lasted  but  one 
morning." 

To  her  Sox  George. 

"  Llanorer,  24  Oct.,  1838. — May  God  grant  hie  blessing, 
my  dearest  George,  to  the  various  reflections  to  which  you 
will  be  led  at  your  confirmation !  JTe  knows  indeed  that  I 
pray  for  you  in  my  heart,  but  you  know  that  well  as  your 
parents  love  you,  He  careth  for  you  with  a  love  of  which 
this  human  frailty  ia  incapable.  May  you  hold  fast  that 
most  consoling  truth,  that  God  is  love,  and  yourself  an 
object  of  that  love  as  peculiarly  as  if  you  were  the  sole 
object.  The  time  may  come,  my  dear  Goorge,  nay  may 
have  been  already,  when  you  may  be  tempted  to  scepticism, 

for  it  is  a  trial  that  many  have  to  go  through In 

itaolf  there  is  nothing  sinful  in  an  inclination  to  weigh 
testimony,  and  take  nothing  upon  trust,  on  the  contrary,  it 
is  praiseworthy,  and  considered  so  on  the  high  authority  of 
the  inspired  historian  of  the  Apostles,  who  says  of  the 
Bereans,  'These  were  more  noble  than  they  of  Thessa- 
lonica,  for  they  searched  the  Scriptures  daily,  whether  those 
things  were  so — therefore  many  of  them  believed,'  &c. 
Doubts  or  difficulties  can  never  offend  the  God  of  light  and 
truth,  if  accompanied  by  a  sigh  after  that  truth,  and  a 
prayer  for  more  of  that  light.  Do  you  remember,  my  <ni  n 
boy,  the  last  conversation  I  had  with  you  and  Charles, 
when  we  looked  at  the  view  from  tho  Capitol  for  tho  last 
time  together,    in  the   glorious  moonlight  of    the   night 


496        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEN. 

between  the  15th  and  16th  of  July,  1837?  I  remember 
well  telling  yon  how  many  difficulties  in  understanding  the 
ways  of  God  to  man  may  be  allowed  to  weigh  upon  the 
mind  for  years,  but  if  that  mind  waits  in  patience  and 
unmurmuringly  for  the  moment  of  being  enlightened, 
using  every  honest  endeavour,  but  not  rebelling  if  such 
should  be  ineffectual, — the  light  will  break  in,  and  the 
difficulties  will  be  removed,  when  and  in  the  manner  least 
expected.  '  I  am  assured  that  neither  death  nor  life,  nor 
angels,  nor  principalities,  nor  powers,  nor  height,  nor 
depth,  nor  any  living  creature,  hath  power  to  separate  us 
from  the  love  of  God  in  Christ  Jesus ! '  May  the  comfort  of 
that  assurance,  my  beloved  George,  be  ever  with  your  spirit." 

To  Abeken. 

"  Llanovtr,  18  Bee,  1838. — To  give  an  account  of  the 
impression  that  England  makes  upon  me,  and  to  describe 
my  actual  situation  and  occupations,  would  be  more  easy 
in  ten  pages  than  in  the  space  I  can  spare.  First  I  will 
tell  you  of  the  present  moment,  which  is  a  very  satisfactory 
point  to  start  from — for  we  have  a  sun  as  bright,  an 
air  as  mild,  and  a  sky  as  clear,  as  ever  yours  can  be  at 
this  hour — by  exception,  most  certainly;  for  the  stand- 
ing rule  is  a  sort  of  wet  blanket  of  sky,  letting  through 
neither  sun  nor  rain,  under  which  the  surrounding  fluid 
which  we  inhale,  whatever  you  are  pleased  to  call  it,  gives 
no  symptom  of  life  in  good  or  evil  6ense,  but  is  a  sort  of 
negation,  moving  not,  warming  not,  chilling  not.  My 
husband  is  ju6t  returned  in  best  spirits,  better  health, 
and  vehement  activity,  from  his  most  interesting  journey 
— of  which  I  can  only  tell  you  the  bubbles !  but  those  even 


THE    FIRST   RETURN    TO    KNOLASD.  497 

are  bright  of  hue,  and  not  the  result  of  the  turmoil  of 
cross-currents.  Henry  is  just  arrived  from  Oxford, 
after  a  happy  and  industrious  term,  disposed  for  an  indus- 
trious vacation,  and  increasing  the  enjoyment  of  all  about 
him.  Theodore  is  well  and  merry,  and  now  at  a  table  with 
his  father  and  brother,  making  a  practice  of  Latin  declen- 
sions with  pasteboard  letters.  The  girls  are  doing  examples 
of  arithmetic,  to  bo  looked  over  by  Henry.  Thus  I  obtain 
this  writing  time,  for  darling  Baby  is  driving  out  in  tor 
carriage,  the  picture,  or  rather  reality,  of  thriving  health 
and  gaiety,  the  delight  of  the  house,  the  peculiar  happiness 
of  her  own  grandmamma:  intelligent  as  may  bo,  malting 
herself  understood  by  all,  but  troubling  herself  little  V  it  h 
any  language  such  as  other  people  speak. 

"  After  I  received  your  request  for  what  you  call  '  <in 
Wurtchen'  on  the  impression  England  makes  on  me,  I 
thought  over  my  answer  in  a  solitary  walk  of  half  an  hour, 

and  many  a  page  might  it  occupy The  time  spent  n  ith 

the  Arnolds  will  remain  among  the  brightest  in  my  recollec- 
tion, and  the  whole  state  and  order  of  their  house  ami 
family,  tho  spirit  that  moves  themselves  and  their  children, 
"that  regulates  their  plans  of  education  and  plans  of  lift',  is 
of  ideal  excellence  r  it  does  one  good  to  think  that  BUcb  a 
family  exists,  and  the  pleasure  is  increased  by  the  thought 
that  we  are  allowed  to  call  them  friends.  I  believe  tliero 
are  other  such  families  in  England,  and  two  or  throo  mi.1i 
my  husband  has  visited — the  Harfords  near  Bristol,  the  .Sey- 
mours in  Dorsetshire,  the  Courtenays  in  Devonshire,  imil 
our  own  Aclands.  I  hope  to  inhale  an  atmosphere  of  the 
right  sort  myself  with  him  at  Pusey  next  month — perhaps 
too  at  Lord  Harrowby's." 

VOL.  I.  K  K 


i 


LIFE    AND   LETTERS  OF 


I 


"  Zlanover,  3  Jan.,  1839. — Before  the  Christmas  holidays 
are  over,  I  must  accomplish  at  least  the  beginning  of  a 
letter  to  you *  My  husband  and  Henry  and  I  re- 
mained together  to  the  close  of  an  eventful  and  important 
year,  and  to  the  beginning  of  one  that  can  hardly  fail  to 
be  equally  so  :  the  bells  of  Llanover  church  shoved  that  a. 
few  poor  people  near  us  recollected  that  those  hours 
deserved  to  be  marked,  and  our  thoughts  were  with  many 
friends  at  a  distance,  whose  thoughts  we  were  assured  of 

meeting  ours You  wish  to  know  the  hour  and 

circumstances  under  which  I  writo — the  hour  is  the  first  of 
the  night,  and  the  children  are  dancing  in  the  room  under 
me  to  the  Welsh  harp.  On  New- Year's  Day  I  gathered 
two  monthly  roses  in  my  Mother's  garden,  not  as  bright  of 
hue  as  those  you  will  have  gathered,  but  still  existing  in 
the  open  air :  and  you  can  hardly  have  had  a  clearer 
moonlight  than  we  had  the  last  evening  of  the  year.  My 
husband  is  hard  at  work,  writing  and  rejoicing  in  freedom 
from  disturbance.  Lepsius  was  detained  at  Paris  and 
could  not  come  to  spend  Christmas  with  us.  Our  Christ- 
mas tree  was  accomplished  very  satisfactorily,  and  deco- 
rated with  a  Virgin  and  Child  that  I  had  copied  in  water-* 
colours  from  a  small  picture  of  Overbeck's,  in  the  summer 
of  1S17,  when  he  was  with  us  at  Frascati — the  only  picture 
■  of  the  Bert  to  be  found  here.  The  twins  have  had  a  happy 
birthday,  the  elder  girls  are  well,  and  Augusta  Matilda  is 
one  of  the  happiest  and  most  flourishing  of  God's  creatures, 
the  picture  of  health  and  enjoyment,  and  occupies  as  great 
a  slinre  of  her  fellow-creatures'  thoughts,  affections,  and 
attention,  as  any  little  thing  ever  did. 

"  We  are  reading  Niebuhr's  Letters,  without  you  !  but 


THE   FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  499 

never  without  thinking  of  you :  it  is  in  this  manner  that 
my  husband  and  Henry  and  I  close  the  evening,  and  I  am 
the  reader.  But  there  is  a  sad  difference  as  to  the  pleasure 
given  by  the  two  volumes:  in  the  greater  part  of  the 
second  Niebuhr  is  seen  in  his  weakness,  as  he  was  before 
in  his  strength,  and  it  is  plain  that  the  death  of  his  first 
wife  was  his  death-blow,  though  he  so  long  survived  it. 
I  am  continually  and  painfully  reminded  of  all  that  was 
morbid  in  the  mind  of  Niebuhr,  by  the  letters  from  Borne : 
and  yet  his  sister-in-law  has  without  doubt  made  great  and 
important  omissions.  I  wish  she  had  left  out  more,  but 
still  the  work  is  invaluable.  I  am  sorry  indeed  that  * 
Marcus  Niebuhr  missed  you  at  Borne :  it  was  one  of  the 
things  I  had  reckoned  upon,  to  have  heard  the  impression 
he  made  upon  you  and  others.  It  is  a  thing  that  does 
one's  heart  good,  apart  from  all  considerations  of  private 
friendship,  to  think  that  a  child  so  prized,  so  delighted  in, 
should  turn  out  as  his  parents  might  well  desire  to  seo 
him.  In  these  Christmas  holidays  I  have  nearly  read  a 
took,  by  no  means  new,  which  is  one  of  a  class  that  forms 
an  event  in  my  life,  from  the  quantity  of  matter  of  thought 
and  edification  it  furnishes — Southey's '  life  of  Wesley.'  As 
a  piece  of  biography  it  is  most  valuable,  and  yet  far  less  in 
that  respect  than  as  an  historical  picture  of  the  operations 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  when  setting  powerful  though  merely 
human  instruments  at  work  to  awaken  the  slumbering 
church.  What  will  the  next  year  bring  forth? — No- 
matter,  we  know  in  whose  hand  it  is,  and  may  undis- 
turbedly await  it." 

"  Zlanover,  6  Feb.,  1839. — After  an   absence  of  three 
weeks,  just  returned  to  my  Mother  and  my  children,  having 


500        LIFE    AND    LETTERS    OF   BARONESS   BUSSES. 

parted  at  Pusey  with  my  husband, — I  give  myself  leavo  to 
take  a  quarter  of  an  hour  from  the  due  time  of  going  to 
bed  to  make  a  beginning  of  a  letter,  which  would  be  too 
full  if  anything  like  the  multitude  of  thoughts  and  feelings 
could  he  communicated,  to  which  the  packet  it  is  intended 
to  answer  gave  rise !  On  Saturday  last  I  was  breakfasting 
for  the  last  time  with  my  husband  and  our  kind  friends  at 
Fusoy,  when  the  packet  came  in,  and  I  kept  the  horses  wait- 
ing for  an  hour,  to  enjoy  with  my  husband  part  of  the  con- 
tents :  the  rest  addressed  to  myself,  I  read  in  the  course  of 
the  first  solitary  stage,  after  leaving  him  to  go  to  Oxford 
with  Mr.  Pusey.  Most  deeply  was  I  affected  by  the 
passages  written  on  the  various  festal  and  devotional  occa- 
sions, on  which  wo  have  been  almost  constantly  with  you, 
or  near  you  for  many  years.  You  were  certainly  present 
to  our  thoughts  and  prayers  on  each  and  every  one,  as  I 
hope  you  never  doubted. 

"Now  I  will  tell  you  how  the  lato  period  has  been 
passed.  On  the  24th  January  we  set  off  from  hence,  my 
husband  and  I,  with  Henry  and  Frances,  and  made  our 
first  station  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Clifford,  near  Ross,  having 
spent  three  hours  by  the  way  in  seeing  antiquities  of  the 
Middle  Ages,  and  eating  a  welcome  luncheon,  at  a  finely 
situated  modern  Qothic  castle  of  Sir  Samuel  Meyrick, 
Goodrich  near  Ross.  A  day  and  a  half  were  passed 
delightfully  in  tho  enjoyment  of  cordial  hospitality,  and 
most  agreeable  society,  Mr.  Clifford  being  perfect  as  host, 
and  his  nieces  coining  forward  to  great  advantage  as 
hostesses:  the  country  too  is  beautiful,  and  the  weather 
was  bo  ideally  line  that  you  could  scarcely  have  had  it  more 
brilliant,  though  ii  might  be  warmer  in  Rome.     Mr.  Clif- 


THE   FIRST    RETURX   TO   ENGLAND.  501 

ford  has  a  fine  library,  his  youngest  niece  plays  surprisingly 
on  the  pianoforte,  lie  has  Italianized  his  garden — what 
would  you  have  more?  Gladly  would  we  have  stayed 
longer,  but  we  were  expected  on  the  1 6th  at  Gloucester, 
where  a  kind  welcome  awaited  us  at  the  Bishop's  palace. 
He  is  a  first  cousin  and  an  old  friend  of  mine,  and  having 
been  among  the  visitors  at  Llanover  during  the  Welsh  tceek, 
had  already  made  the  acquaintance  of  my  husband,  as  I 
had  that  of  his  wife.  It  was  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  see 
how  kindly  my  husband  and  my  former — playfellow  I  had 
almost  said  (con  rispetto  parlando)  took  to  one  another ;  but 
the  day  and  a  half  we  passed  at  Gloucester  gave  us  scarcely 
any  leisure  for  conversing  with  the  good  Bishop,  whose 
mornings  are  nearly  engrossed  by  the  concerns  of  his 
diocese.  A  Bishop  in  these  days  sleeps  not  on  roses; 
but  some  of  the  evils  attending  his  position,  hemming 
the  usefulness  of  the  best-intentioned — must,  one  should 
think,  now  be  remedied,  as  a  prodigious  spirit  has  been 
aroused  for  the  defence  and  renovation  of  the  Church  of 
England,  in  a  very  considerable  and  weighty  part  of  the 
nation,  which  is  at  work  on  various  points.  The  idea  of 
the  possibility  of  your  coming  to  England  while  we  are 
here,  is  a  very  delightful  one,  and  for  few  things  can 
I  answer  more  certainly,  than  for  my  Mother's  being 
very  glad  to  see  you.  But  you  must  do  that  which 
is  good  and  right  for  yourself,  and  your  own  prospects 
in  life,  and  your  own  serious  occupations,  and  depend 
upon  it,  England  would  be  to  you  a  place  of  '  geistigen 
Schwelgen.' " 

"  Llanover  >  4  March,  1 839. — I  will  not  let  my  birthday  pass 
without  addressing  some  words  where  my  thoughts  have 


502        LIFE   AND   LETTERS  OF    BARONESS    BUSSES. 

often  been,  veil-assured  that  I  have  not  been  forgotten  In 
the  beloved  home  of  the  best  years  of  my  life,  but  that 
your  thoughts  have  traced  the  same  path  as  mine,  and 
your  prayers  have  implored  for  me  all  I  may  need.  The 
sun  shone  bright  upon  this  day  here  too,  and  many  flowers 
had  opened  to  deck  out  the  table  covered  with  gifts, 
although  not  anemones  and  sweet-scented  Iris,  such  as  we 
fetched  this  day  twelve  months  from  the  Villa  Pamfili — 
the  last  time  I  ever  trod  that  ground,  though  the  enjoy- 
ment of  it  was  not  marred  by  any  such  consciousness. 
This  morning  my  children  and  my  niece  Augusta  Charlotte 
had  prepared  each  something  for  me,  helped  and  directed 
by  their  dear  grandmamma ;  my  sister  had  added  a  piece 
of  her  beautiful  embroidery,  and  her  sister-in-law  Mrs. 
TJerrington  *  a  painting  of  an  anemone  and  cyclamen ;  but 
what  rendered  the  scene  quite  original  and  unlike  any  other 
such  morning,  was  a  set  of  humorous  verses,  concocted  by 
the  two  last-named  ladies,  explanatory  of  the  qualities  of 
the  gifts,  and  intentions  of  the  various  donors,  recited  by  my 
sister  in  the  name  of  each,  not  omitting  Augusta  Matilda, 
who  enjoyed  bringing  me  a  hag,  after  all  the  rest,  as 
much  as  anybody.  Afterwards  the  twins,  Mary,  Augusta- 
Matilda  and  I,  had  a  drive  in  an  open  carriage,  and  since 
that  I  have  been  out  a  long  time,  seeing  my  Soman  ranun- 
culuses planted  in  my  Mother's  garden. 

"It  was  on  the  18th  January  that  we  went  to  Pusey, 
where-  wo  found  our  kind  friends  such  as  they  ever 
were  towards  its,  and  rejoiced  to  witness  the  effects  of 
their  beneficent  and  Christian  spirit  on  all  around  them, 
as  well  as  to  experience  those  of  their  good  taste  in  the 
'  Only  Bister  of  Sir  Benjamin  HslL  ' 


were  towards  its,  ai 

their  beneficent  and 

as  well  as  to  experi 

*  Only 


THE   FIRST   RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  503 

selection  of  society.  But  I  wish  there  were  any  means  of 
infusing  into  that  family  some  of  that  physical  health  and 
vigour  which  many  people  know  not  how  to  use,  but  to 
purposes  of  evil !  they  have  so  much  moral  soundness  and 
Christian  strength  of  mind,  which  it  is  painful  to  see  is 
only  just  enough  to  support  them  on  the  defensive  against 

the  daily  trials  of  their  lives Mr.  Fusey  has  a  fine 

new-made  Italian  garden,  with  the  inherited  decoration  of 
noble  forest-trees :  but  that  part  of  England  has  no  beauty, 
except  from  fine  cultivation.  As  for  the  skirts  of  hilly  tracts ! 
like  Monmouthshire,  not  to  go  farther ! — it  will  be  hard  to 
live  without  seeing  barren  summits  rising  over  cultivated 
undulations — Ma  tutto  si  fa. 

"  I  made  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  a  journey  alone, 
that  is,  with  Frances  and  a  maid,  from  Pusey  home,  and 
divided  it  by  sleeping  at  Gloucester,  where  I  stayed  over 
Sunday  at  the  Bishop's,  saw  my  good  cousin,  in  robes, 
lawn  sleeves,  and  wig,  go  into  the  cathedral,  and  enjoyed 
the  cathedral  service  in  perfection  in  that  magnificent 
building.  The  organ  was  fine,  the  choir  good,  and  the 
chau&ting  left  nothing  to  wish  but  that  it  had  been  (after 
the  fashion  of  S.  Salvatore  in  Maximis)  much  slower  than 
the  custom  retained  with  too  much  exactness  from  Roman- 
Catholic  times.  During  this  visit  I  had  the  pleasure  of 
much  conversation,  and  of  a  very  satisfactory  renewal  of 
intercourse  with  the  really  good  and  estimable  Bishop, 
who  alas !  in  the  prime  of  life  is  threatened  with  blindness, 
but  bears  his  deprivation  with  exemplary  resignation  and 
cheerfulness.  On  reaching  Uanover  I  found  that  the 
children  had  all  been  well  and  good,  under  the  care  of 
dear  grandmamma,  and  most  dutifully  put  off  being  ill 


504        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BUXSEN. 

till  I  returned,  but  no  sooner  was  I  back,  than  one  after 
another  began  to  ail." 

"  Zlanover,  15  March,  1839. — Whether  or  not  there  will 
be  any  certainty  on  the  point  that  most  interests  me, — my 
husband's  going  directly  to  Berlin,  or  remaining  some 
months  longer  here,  before  this  letter  is  sent,  I  know  not. 
Had  he  leisure  to  give  you  only  the  rapid  view  of  the 
passing  events  of  his  London  life  which  he  sends  me — only 
a  list  of  engagements  and  interviews  and  conversations, 
and  of  names  of  his  associates—  what  a  a  rich  treat  it  would 
be  to  you !  It  must  have  been  a  period  of  as  much  interest 
and  high-strained  intellectual  activity,  with  enjoyment,  as 
any  he  ever  passed  through.  The  quantity  of  work  he  has 
done,  besides  being  on  the  full  stretch  of  observation,  con- 
versation, and  locomotion,  is  beyond  my  comprehension; 
even  though  I  know  he  has  accomplished  the  apparent 
impossibility  in  London  of  early  rising.  His  contribution 
to  the  biography  of  Niebuhr  is  one  of  the  works  begun  and 
completed  within  a  few  days'  time,  since  he  has  been  in 
London.  He  is  continually  meeting  Gladstone,  and  for 
hours  together.  Lady  Baffles  he  often  sees,  and  she 
remembers  you  with  great  affection :  she  has  brought  my 
husband  and  Mrs.  Fry  together,  and  they  have  had  a 
memorable  conversation.  His  being  in  England  will  leave 
its  traces,  I  believe !  and  his  reception  is  such  as  perhaps 
no  foreigner  ever  met  with  before." 

Many  were  the  long  absences  of  Bunsen,  in  London, 
and  on  visits  to  the  Aclands,  Puseys,  and  to  Mr.  Har- 
ford of  Blaise  Castle — to  whom  he  was  introduced  by 
Sir  Thomas  Acland,  during   the  time  spent  by  the 


THE   FIRST   RETURN   TO   ENGLAND.  605 

family  at  Llanover.  He  wa*  welcomed,  both  in  Lon- 
don and  in  English  country-houses  with  an  enthusiasm, 
which  could  little  be  anticipated  for  one  who  had 
arrived,  "  to  all  appearance,  a  man  supposed  to  have  no 
chance  for  the  future  but  through  the  favour  of  his 
own  Government,  which  he  seemed  to  have  forfeited." 
His  simple  and  ever  hopeful  nature,  gave  him  a  peculiar 
charm,  which  is  well  indicated  in  the  farewell  words  of 
his  Russian  friend  Joukovsky,  who  had  been  much 
with  him  in  London — "  Conservez  toujours  votre  coeur 
d'enfant !  vous  etes  Ie  premier  enfant  de  cinquante  ons 
que  j'ai  jamais  rencontre"." 

During  the  earlier  of  her  husband's  absences  Madame 
Bunsen  remained  at  Llanover  in  the  happiness  of  once 
more  uniting  the  duties  of  mother  and  daughter,  but  in 
May,  1839,  she  joined  Bunsen  in  London. 

To  ha-  Mother. 

"London,  19  May,  1839. — Endless  dinner-parties  and 
visits :  I  know  not  how  much  I  shall  be  able  to  collect  to 
communicate  out  of  the  turmoil  of  my  thoughts.  Last  night 
we  found  a  card  from  Lord  Falmerston,  inviting  the 
Chevalier  Bunsen  to  his  dinner  on  the  Queen's  birthday. 
This  it  is  decided  must  not  be  declined.  I  know  not  what 
people  mean  by  pre -supposition  of  doing  what  they  intend  : 
we  do  in  general  everything  but  what  we  first  intend.  1 
saw  yesterday,  besides  the  old  pictures  and  old  friends  at 
Bridgewater  House,  a  modern  picture  that  astonished  me, 
by  M.  do  la  Roche,  a  Frenchman :  I  had  not  supposed 
anything  so  classical  could  come  out  of  the  present  da; . 


I 


606        LIFE   AND   LETTERS   OF  BARONESS    BUSSES. 

muck  less  out  of  Paris 0 !  I  long  to  be  back  with 

you  all!  I  shall  breathe  next  week  at  Lady  Rafflea'a. 
This  is  a  strange  life  to  be  called  amusement." 

"  Cambridge,  22  May,  1839.— We  bad  the  pleasantest 
journey  possible  yesterday  in  the  fly-coach,  sat  at  our  ease 
in  the  delicious  refreshing  air,  saw  on  all  aides  flowers  and 
verdure,  and  on  arriving  at  Chesterford  by  way  of  Epping 
— all  unknown  regions,  found  Mr.  Herbert's  phaeton 
waiting  for  us,  which  brought  us  to  Ickleton.  Here  wo 
were  received  with  a  kindness  which  quite  touched  me. 
The  house  is  one  of  those  whimsical  old  ones,  added  to  and 
modified  by  successive  possessore,  which  bear  all  the  marks 
of  having  been  lived  in  and  hallowed  by  human  existence 
and  human  feeling :  nicely  fitted  up,  much  old  furniture, 
and  a  fine  library.     This  morning  we  set  off  early  for 

Cambridge In  the  quadrangle  of  Trinity  we  met  Mr. 

Whewell,  whom  I  like  very  much  and  who  conducted  us 
moat  kindly  till  he  was  called  away,  and  then  Mr.  Flint 
brought  us  to  evening  service  at  King's  College  Chapel. 
There  Mr.  Townley  had  offered  to  bespeak  an  anthem 
such  as  wo  should  admire,  and  the  choice  fell  upon 
Haydn's  'Lot  there  be  Light,'  with  the  succeeding  air  and 
chorus — a  singular  and  most  unsuitable  selection  as  a  part 
of  church-service,  though  in  itself  beautiful,  and  sung  by 
very  fine  voices,  accompanied  by  an  exquisite  organ. 
King's  Chapel  is  indeed  magnificent ;  but  altogether  I  am 
surprised  nod  delighted  with  the  Cambridge  buildings, 
which  I  think  are  in  general  dbugri—esiiL  such  grouping 
of  buildings  with  fine  trees,  turf,  water,  and  blossoming 
shrubs,  I  do  uot  remember  to  have  seen.  Many  a  point 
did  I  long  fo  draw.     Mrs.  Herbert  planned  showing  us 


THE  FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  507 


Audley  End,  but  we  must  be  satisfied  with  the  view  from 
the  road,  which  I  was  inexpressibly  struck  with — building, 
trees,  green  inequalities,  river,  and  bridge.  The  river  Cam 
surprised  me  among  other  things — a  very  pretty  river, 
clear,  and  full  up  to  the  green  margin." 

"London,  Trinity  Sunday,  26  May,  1839. — Many  are  the 
people  I  have  seen,  and  most  obliging  the  recognition  I  have 
met  with,  from  many  a  person  where  I  have  not  expected  it. 
I  wonder  at  it,  considering  what  the  world  is,  and  that  I  am 
neither  my  husband  nor  my  sister.  But  before  I  tell  any 
more  of  our  evenings,  I  must  speak  of  this  day,  when  I 
went  with  Charles  to  Guy's  Hospital,  to  hear  Mr.  Maurice 
preach.  I  cannot  describe  the  refreshment  to  soul  and 
spirit  of  this  quiet  place  of  worship,  the  congregation  con- 
sisting of  few  besides  the  sick  of  the  hospital,  Mr.  Maurice 
not '  performing  the  service,'  not  '  reading  the  prayers,'  as 
it  is  generally  termed  and  done — but  praying  with  an 
intensity  of  seriousness,  that  would  make  it  hard  indeed 
not  to  pray  with  him.  His  sermon  had  of  course  a  refer- 
ence to  the  Trinity,  but  instead  of  being  a  discussion  of 
abstract  orthodoxy,  he  impressed  upon  his  hearers  the  all- 
pervading  nature  of  Divine  Love,  which  as  the  Father,  the 
Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost — the  Creator,  Mediator,  and 
Sancthier,  had  followed  us  all,  and  would  follow  us,  in 
every  stage  of  existence,  as  it  had  accompanied  and  sur- 
rounded our  fathers  before  us.  He  was  calm  and  per- 
suasive at  first,  but  at  the  close  had  a  passage  of  great 
eloquence,  evidently  extempore.  After  church,  he  and 
his  sister  came  to  ask  us  to  their  house,  and  here  again 
I  was  met  as  an  old  Mend.  Miss  Maurice  is  a  great 
friend  of  Mrs.  Augustus  Hare,  and  I  think  a  worthy 


508        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS  BTJNSEN. 

one :  she  struck  me  much,  as  not  speaking  an  insignificant 
word." 

"Highwood,  near  Hendon,  31  May,  1839. — A  thousand 
thanks  for  the  detailed  accounts  of  my  dear  children,  after 
whom  every  day  I  long  more,  and  know  not  how  I  am  to 
go  on  much  longer  without  seeing  them,  and  enjoying 
them.  How  very  kind  in  my  youngest  darling  to  '  want 
Mamma!'  when  she  never  wants  for  anything  that 
Mamma  could  give  heir — neither  care,  kindness,  nor 
amusement. 

"  My  own  Mother,  this  is  a  delightful  place,  and  I  wish 
you  could  witness  the  dignity,  the  order,  the  quiet  activity, 
the  calm  cheerfulness,  with  which  Lady  Baffles  rules  the 
house,  the  day,  the  conversation.  Yesterday  we  were  taken 
to  drive  out,  and  saw  the  church  at  Cannons,  the  place 
where  Handel  was  so  much  with  the  Duke  of  Chandos, 
but  the  fine  house  has  been  pulled  down  since  the  extino 
tion  of  the  family  of  the  late  Duke.  The  old  clergyman 
showed  the  grave  of  the  blacksmith  from  whose  har- 
monious anvil  Handel  took  the  hint  of  the  air  in  that 
beautiful  Clavecin-Lesson." 

" London }  4  June. — The  'Messiah'  was  glorious,  and  it 
was  a  true  enjoyment  to  hear  it  with  my  husband  and 
Lady  Baffles,  who  felt  it  as  I  did.  Braham  performed  the 
opening  piece,  with  the  same  power  as  ever !  The  preser- 
vation of  his  voice  is  wonderful  j  but  he  sung  nothing  else." 

"  7  June. — Yesterday  the  effect  of  sight  and  sound  at  St. 
Paul's  was  beyond  all  description  that  has  been  given  of  it 
— above  all  was  my  astonishment  great  at  the  accuracy  in 
time  and  tune  of  eight  thousand  children :  the  crash  of  their 
voices  was  thrilling. 


THE  FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  509 

"  The  Seymers  are  in  London  and  I  am  often  refreshed 
by  the  sight  of  Louisa." 

"  Oxford,  10  June,  1839. — Nothing  is  like  the  absorption 
of  this  place.  -  After  breakfast  Henry  Acland  took  me  to 
the  Christ  Church  service — wretched  music,  quite  disgrace- 
ful— and  to  his  rooms.  Then  to  call  on  Dr.  Buckland, 
where  I  could  hardly  get  up  the  staircase  for  stuffed  ani- 
mals and  fossils.  Miss  Buckland,  aged  nine,  had  been 
helping  her  papa  to  dissect  a  cat  that  morning :  Mamma 
tried  to  prevent  its  being  told,  saying  it  was  a  shame,  but 
Dr.  B.  would  tell.  After  luncheon  we  went  to  Blenheim : 
the  Eaphael  is  alone  worth  going  for.  Several  people  came 
to  dinner,  amongst  others  Mr.  Keble  the  poet*  This  morning 
I  went  to  early  chapel  in  an  invisible  seat,  behind  not  only 
a  grating,  but  a  glass  window !  that  the  monastic  assem- 
bly might  not  be  disturbed  by  the  sight  of  ladies !  Mr. 
Newman  preached,  in  honour  of  St.  Barnabas'  day,  but 
not  a  word  could  I  understand,  so  read  in  the  Bible.  We 
went  to  a  breakfast  in  the  beautiful  hall  at  Merton :  Mr. 
"Wordsworth  was  there,  grown  much  older." 

"  Claydon,  16  June,  1839. — I  have  felt  every  moment  that 
this  is  a  house  I  should  like  to  stay  in :  that  I  felt  too  at  the 
Provost  of  Oriel's,  for  he  and  his  wife  are  both  good,  and 
kind,  and  intelligent,  and  there  is  no  tittle-tattle  in  the  house, 
and  much  lively  interest  in  all  good  things.  But  here  there 
is  more  freshness  of  existence :  Sir  Harry  and  Lady  Verney 
are  both  so  happy  in  bodily  and  mental  activity.  There  is 
a  small,  reasonable  establishment,  no  display  in  anything, 
but  every  comfort  and  rational  refinement This  morn- 
ing opens  beautifully  on  fine  trees,  turf,  a  piece  of  water, 
and  an  old  church.    I  close  to  go  to  morning-prayers." 


510        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 


"  FoxhoWy  21  June,  1839. — Here  I  am,  my  own  dearest 
Mother,  at  the  end  of  the  world !  It  is  so  like  a  dream, 
that  this  immense  journey  should  have  been  performed  in 
so  few  hours,  that  I  am  obliged  to  recall  my  thoughts  to 
be  sure  what  the  details  were.  Sure  it  is  that,  after 
luncheon  at  12  at  Bugby,  we  walked  to  the  Bailway  Station, 
I  in  state,  having  one  grown-up  son  to  carry  my  shawl, 
and  another  still  taller  to  carry  my  basket.  Not  till  two  did 
the  hissing  dragon  drag  us  forth  in  his  tail ;  but  we  could 
have  been  at  Preston  much  earlier,  if  it  had  not  been  that 
the  dragon  got  loose,  and  slid  on  by  itself  to  Preston,  leav- 
ing his  tail  to  follow  as  it  could,  which  it  did  by  means  of 
the  impulse  already  communicated,  as  long  as  there  was 
slope  downwards,  but  stopped  at  last,  when,  after  half  an 
hour's  trouble,  the  dragon  was  harnessed  on  again. 

"After  breakfast  yesterday,  our  immense  caravan  of 
twenty-two  persons  was  forwarded  in  different  carriages 
or  by  canal-boat.  The  journey  was  delicious — and  my 
Mother  will  guess  how  it  struck  me  to  see  that  fine  Lan- 
caster again,  with  the  noble  church  and  castle  on  its  hill, 
the  fine  solid  grey-stone  buildings,  and  the  broad  river  and 
sea :  and  she  will  imagine  how  beautiful  the  country  was, 
in  this  season,  gradually  entering  the  defiles,  and  at  last 
coming  upon  all  the  beauty  of  Windermere.  At  a  quarter 
before  five,  we  reached  this  beautiful  spot,  and  could 
sympathise  in  the  joy  with  which  it  was  greeted  by  the 
Arnolds. 

"  26  June. — I  have  had  a  beautiful  walk  this  evening,  to 
drink  tea  with  the  Wordsworths,  when  Mr.  Wordsworth 
took  us  to  see  the  Bydal  waterfalls  in  Lady  Fleming's 
park.     This  country  is  most  enjoyable,  and  I  shall  ever 


THE   FIRST  RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  511 

look  back  with  pleasure  to  the  last  week,  in  which  I  can 
only  say  the  impression  before  made  by  Dr.  and  Mrs. 
Arnold  has  been  deepened,  not  altered.  Their  charms 
stand  the  test  of  a  journey  together,  and  very  close  contact 
in  a  country-residence :  and  the  good  temper,  good  dispo- 
sitions, habits  of  activity  and  obedience,  in  the  children, 
deserve  all  credit." 

To  Abeken. 

"  2  July,  1839. — I  am  at  present  transported  about  from 
place  to  place  as  if  upon  the  enchanted  carpet  of  the 
Arabian  Nights,  and  have  to  reflect  where  I  really  am, 
lest  I  should  write  the  wrong  date.  To  the  best  of  my 
judgment  and  recollection,  I  am  just  now  at  Foxhow, 
with  the  Arnolds  in  full  number,  and  my  own  George,  who 
has  made  out  his  own  long  way  from  Schulpf orte  to  Berlin, 
to  Hamburgh,  to  London,  whence  after  having  been 
received  and  shown  about  by  Lepsius,  Gerhard,  the 
Puseys,  and  my  sister,  he  was  accompanied  by  Caspar 
to  meet  us  on  the  railway  between  London  and  Eugby. 
Henry  enjoyed  being  at  Claydon  with  us,  not  only 
because  it  was  a  most  enjoyable  thing  in  itself,  but  also 
because  he  was  glad  his  Father  should  see  a  Whig  family 
in  every  respect  exemplary,  and  filling  every  relation 
to  God  and  man,  as  completely  as  any  Tory  family 
by  which  he  has  been  edified  since  we  came  to  England. 
We  are  all  of  opinion  that  you  did  not  say  a  word  more 
than  the  merits  of  Lady  Verney's  talents  and  agreeable 
qualities  deserve,  and  Sir  Harry  pervades  his  household 
and  family  with  a  spirit  of  order,  harmony,  and  kindliness, 
such  as  can  issue  from  no  commonplace  mind.    He  has  the 


j 


512        LIFE   AND  LETTERS  OF  BARONESS  BUNSEN. 

immense  charge  of  a  large  estate  (SO  English  miles  square), 
an  enormous  mansion,  and  three  villages  thickly  populated 
with  the  poorer  orders :  nothing  is  sacrificed  to  mere  show, 
and  there  is  every  sign  that  the  indulgent  master  not  only 
commands,  but  directs  the  whole — another  proof  of  what  I 
have  always  heard,  that  military  persons  always  keep  up 
the  habits  of  order  and  arrangement  in  their  families, 
whereas  naval  officers,  when  once  the  strict  rule  of  ship- 
discipline  is  removed,  know  not  how  to  keep  anything 
within  any  bounds  whatever.  The  dear  little  Lady  looks 
like  the  elder  sister  of  the  three  lovely  children  she  so 

carefully  manages Gaydon  is  a  fine  park,  with  a 

piece  of  clear  water — artificial,  but  not  appearing  so,  noble 
trees,  and  fine  turf,  but  no  other  beauty  of  country.  Now 
I  must  leave  this  attractive  subject,  to  tell  you  of  another 
house  in  which  you  are  most  affectionately  remembered — 
that  of  Lady  Baffles,  in  which  we  spent  almost  &ve  days. 
She  looks  down  from  a  height,  over  green  slopes  and  fine 
groups  of  trees,  upon  a  broad  and  fertile  expanse  of  wood 
and  cultivated  ground,  bounded  by  the  heights  upon  which 
Harrow  is  situated  and  which  are  crowned  by  its  church 
spire.  We  had  the  most  delightful  weather,  and  those  days, 
in  her  society,  were  perfectly  ideal.  She  ever  deepens  the 
first  impression  she  made,  and  the  more  opportunity  one 
has  of  contemplating  her  on  all  sides,  the  more  perfect 
is  the  effect  produced  of  completeness  of  grace,  dignity, 
and  proportion.  Ella  is  good  and  pleasing  and  her  head 
very  handsome. 

"  Of  Cambridge,  I  must  say  that  it  is  traduced,  when 
people  place  it  so  far  below  Oxford;  the  general  effect 
is  certainly  inferior,  because  the  town  is  shabbier,  and 


THE   FIRST  RETURN   TO  ENGLAND.  513 


the  situation  uninteresting :  but  the  fine  things  of  Gam- 
bridge  are  finer  than  anything  in  Oxford,  and  the  view 
of  the  principal  range  of  colleges  from  the  gardens  and 
avenues  quite  unparalleled.  At  Oxford  we  staid  a  week — 
enjoyed  a  quiet  Sunday,  and  had  time  on  Monday  to  go 
to  Blenheim,  and  see  the  Marlborough  Raffaelle,  before 
the  Commemoration  festivities  began.  Of  these  we  only 
attended  one  concert  of  Sacred  Music,  besides  the  grand 
day  in  the  Theatre — but  daily  dinner  parties  and  luncheon 
parties  kept  us  on  the  full  stretch,  and  if  Claydon  had  not 
been  in  itself  bo  delightful,  it  would  have  seemed  so  as 
affording  rest  and  quiet.  The  Theatre  at  Oxford  was  a 
grand  sight,  independent  of  the  extreme  interest  to 
myself  of  witnessing  my  husband's  reception,  with  the 
loud-repeated  and  continued  plaudits  of  the  university- 
public.  Only  Wordsworth  met  with  more  applause  than 
he  did.  I  must  try  to  give  an  idea  of  the  originality  of  the 
scene.  Imagine  the  Theatre  a  fine  building,  by  Sir 
Christopher  Wren — middle  galleries  filled  with  ladies,  all 
with  fine  clothes  and  many  with  fine  faces :  upper  galleries 
filled  with  under-graduates — Studenten,  in  picturesque  black 
gowns :  ground-floor  full  of  masters  of  arts,  men-strangers, 
and  a  remnant  of  ladies :  raised  semicircle  of  doctors,  be- 
hind which  ladies  admitted  to  posts  of  distinction— -fra 
Paltre,  serva  sua  umilmima:  among  the  doctors,  Sir  T. 
Acland,  Lockhart,  and  others,  sons  of  the  University,  and 
returning  per  il  bacia-mano  delV  onorata  Madre, — in  other 
words,  making  their  visit  on  a  gala-day.  Some  time 
were  we  assembled,  however,  before  the  doctors  in  proces- 
sion, headed  by  the  Vice-Chancellors,  took  their  seats :  and 
that  time  was  employed  by  the  undergraduates  in  showing 

VOL.  I.  L  L 


514        LIFE  AND  LETTERS  OF   BARONESS   BUNSEN. 

themselves  to  be  at  home — cheering  *  the  Ladies — all  the 
Ladies — the  blue  bonnets — the  pink  bonnets/  &c,  with 
deafening  clamour,  turned  afterwards  upon  public  cha- 
racters, who  fared    ill    or  well   according  to  the  Tory 
estimate.     When  the  doctors  marched  in,  our  excellent 
Dr.  Arnold  was  greeted  as  he  deserved — a  great  triumph  in 
the  Tory-university.    Having  taken  their  places,  the  Vice- 
chancellor  made  a  Latin  speech,  proposing  the  various 
candidates  for  honours,  and  when  he  had  finished,  the  said 
candidates  entered  in  procession,  headed  by  Dr.  Phillimore, 
Professor  of  Civil  Law,  who  spoke  himself  hoarse  in  Latin, 
presenting  each  person  and  his  merits  to  the  notice  of  the 
University.    Lord  Bipon,  Sir  J.  Herschel,  my  husband — 
were  the  first :  then  followed  others,  military,  naval,  and 
poetical ;  all  with  uniforms,  if  they  had  such,  and  the  scarlet 
doctor's-gown  put  on  under  their    epaulettes,   envelop- 
ing them  with  the  dignity  of  Rembrandt's  Burgomasters. 
The  Vice-Chancellor,  after  hearing  the  introductory  speech, 
rose  and  announced  to  each  favoured  person  in  turn  the 
honour  granted,  and  thereupon  that  person  took  his  place 
next  to  the  other  doctors.    The  Vice-Ghancellor  is  a  fine- 
looking  man  and  of  graceful  deportment.     Nobody  ad- 
vanced, bowed,  and  took  his  place,  with  so  much  dignity 
and  composure  as  my  husband.    The  new  doctors  having 
been  admitted,  the  young  men  who  had  obtained  prizes 
recited  their  poems  and  essays— one  of  a  sort,  Latin  and 
English.    This  was  rather  long,  for  those  already  fatigued 
with  over-excitement:   but  the  English  poem  interested 
me,  on  the  Superstitions  of  India,  and  their  fall  before 
the  Cross — by  Buskin,  a  young  man  of  promise.    They 
tell  me  too  the  Latin  was  good,  by  Arthur  Stanley,  a  pupil 


THE  FIRST    RETURN  TO  ENGLAND.  515 

of  Arnold.  That  Oxford  is  a  wondrous  place,  and  it  is 
indescribably  interesting  to  be  there  some  days,  in  that 
college-stillness,  surrounded  with  noble  buildings." 

To  the  quiet  time  of  her  sojourn  at  Llanover,  belong 
the  following  fragments  of  letters  from  Madame 
Bunsen: — 

To  her  Aunt,  Mrs.  Ram. 

"  I  value  old  Mends  more  than  I  ever  did — for  I  have, 
in  the  last  few  years,  lost  so  many  of  those  I  on  all  grounds 
loved ; — and  at  my  age,  I  get  no  new  friends.  The  younger 
people  are  not  looking  back  to  those  they  think  are  near 
the  close  of  their  course.  This  is  right.  It  is  well  that  one 
tie  after  another  should  be  cut,  that  we  may  be  the  more 
ready  to  fly  up.  It  helps  us  to  realize  the  coming  worftl, 
when  we  think  of  those  we  loved  and  valued  that  are  gone 
before.  "We  know  them  to  be  where  Death  does  not 
separate  them  from  the  Love  of  God,  which  is  in  Christ 
Jesus ;  and  we  can  say  of  them,  as  Jesus  said  of  Abraham, 
and  '  Ood  is  not  the  God  of  the  dead,  but  of  the  living.' 
They  live ! — that  knowledge  strengthens  our  apprehension 
of  the  country,  to  which  we  are  all  journeying.  And 
whilst  our  chief  desire  should  be,  to  be  with  Jesus,  it  is  a 
feeling  of  the  same  kind  which  leads  us  to  hope  to  be  with 
those  beloved  ones,  who  in  company  with  us,  joined  Jesus 
here." 

"  It  is  in  vain  to  speak  against  feeling.  To  lose  a  person 
that  has  ever  loved  one,  during  the  whole  of  a  long  con- 
nexion, is  always  most  bitter,  however  many  be  the  hearts 
that  still  remain. :  but  perhaps  the  bitterest  of  all  sensations, 


j 


516        LIFE  AND   LETTERS  OF   BARONESS    BUNSEK. 

on  such  occasions  of  separation  by  death,  is  the  renewed 
consciousness  of  other  similar  separations, — the  rousing  of 
sorrows  that  slumbered, — and  the  being  reminded  how 
many  connexions  of  friendship  and  affection  belong  alto- 
gether to  the  past, — and  as  far  as  this  world  is  concerned, 
are  at  an  end!  The  sting  of  grief  indeed  is  taken  out 
by  the  consideration  that  those  connexions  which  had  on 
everlasting  basis,  may  well  be  reckoned  upon  to  endure 
everlastingly :  but  the  grief  itself  remains,  only  He,  who 
was  made  like  unto  us  in  all  things,  sin  only  excepted,  has 
sanctified  it, — by  His  sympathy." 


END  OF  VOL.  L 


n 


