MAY AND MAY 

5 HOTHAM ROAD 
LONDON, SW15 ION 



Music and 
Music Literature 



SIP. CHARLES HALLE 



OF 



SIE CHAELES HALLE 



BEING AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY (1819-1860) WITH 
CORRESPONDENCE AND DIARIES 



EDITED liY 



HIS SON, C. E. HALLE 

AND 

HIS DAUGHTER, MARIE HALLfi 



WITH TWO PORTRAITS 



LONDON 

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE 

1896 

'All rights repcrvnl" 




HL 



NOTE 

IN the task of preparing this autobiography of my 
Father for publication, and in the selection, arrange- 
ment, and revision of the letters and diaries which 
form the remainder of the volume, my Sister and I 
are greatly indebted to the valuable and sympathetic 
assistance of Mr. CHARLES L. GRAVES. 

C. E. HALLE. 



CONTENTS 



CFTAPTER I 



VA ( : li 

EARLY YEARS: HAGEN, DARMSTADT, AND PARIS: 1819-1888 . 1 



CHAPTER II 

LIFK IN PARIS : 1SU8 1H4S 52 

CHAPTER III 

LIKE AND LABOURS IN MANCHESTER AND LONDON: 1848-1800 . 101 

CHAPTER IV 

POSTSCRIPT : ISO,", 1895. BY C. E. HALLE 141 

LETTERS ........... 18'2 

DIARIES AND NOTES OE TRAVEL 

(1) MANCHESTER, c. : 1855 353 

(2) AUSTRALIA : IB'.M) 307 

(3) SOUTH AERICA : 1895 396 

APPENDICES 

(1) A GERMAN CRITIC ON MR. CHARLES HALLE IN 1841 . . 405 

(2) LIST OF WORKS PERFORMED AT SIR CHARLES HALLE'S 

MANCHESTER CONCERTS : 1H58 1895 407 

INDEX 427 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

PORTRAIT FROM A PHOTOGRAPH BY WALERY, 1890 . Frontispiece 

PORTRAIT AFTER AN OIL-PAINTING BY VICTOR MOTTKZ, 

1850 To face page 116 



OF 



SIR CHARLES HALLE 



CHAPTEE I 

1819-1838 

Birth and parentage Early delicacy A musical atmosphere Accom- 
panist at the Hagen ' Gesang-Verein ' A youthful kettle -drummer 
Early appearances as a pianist My father's sacrifice Piano-playing 
in the dark My sense of absolute pitch Early acquaintance with 
classical chamber music My test of good music Visits to Arolsen 
and Cassel Spohr's kindness My first concert at Cassel I learn 
the organ First appearance as an orchestral conductor My 
' alter ego : ' Cornelius Fliiss Playing at Indians Astronomical 
studies Childish beliefs : a painful disillusionment Summer excur- 
sions The Prince of IIohen-Limburg Police and night watchmen 
New Year festivities A romantic postman The servant girl's 
arithmetic I repair to Darmstadt llinck and his methods of teach- 
ing Gottfried Weber Orchestral music at Darmstadt Journey to 
Paris My visit to Kalkbrenner First meeting with Chopin : his 
wonderful playing and artistic isolation Chopin's last concerts 
Liszt, his genius and peculiarities Thalberg, his style and the secret 
of his popularity Other Parisian acquaintances My seances at M. 
Guibert's Evenings at the Conservatoire with Cherubim : his caustic 
sayings. 

I WAS born on April 11, 1819, at the moment 
when the church bells began to ring in Easter Morn, 
as my dear mother often told me in after years. 
Curiously enough, Easter Sunday fell every eleven 

B 



2 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

years on April 11 until I was fifty-five years old, 
but will not do so again during my lifetime. Hagen, 
in Westphalia, where I saw the light, was then a 
little town with from 4,000 to 5,000 inhabitants. 
My father, Frederick Halle, originally from Arolsen, 
in the principality of Waldeck, was organist of the 
principal church, and ' musik director,' which means 
that he conducted the concerts, for, although the 
town was so small, there were concert societies there 
of no little importance. My father, besides, gave 
innumerable lessons in singing, as well as on almost 
every instrument. He had a charming tenor voice, 
and was a first-rate performer on the piano, the 
organ, the violin, and the flute. His activity was not 
restricted to Hagen alone, for when concerts were 
given in neighbouring towns, such as Iserlohn, 
Limburg, Dortmund, Schwelm, and others, he was 
generally invited to conduct them ; and was knoAvn 
far and wide as a remarkable wit, many of his clever 
sayings being quoted for years. He was handsome, 
most winning in appearance, and nothing could equal 
the enthusiasm with which he cultivated his art, to 
which I owe the love, the adoration of music which 
has never left me during my long life. My dear 
mother, Caroline Halle, nee Brenschedt, came of an 
old Westphalian family. She was, when I could 
begin to appreciate her, one of the sweetest of God's 
children, and continued to be beloved by all who 
knew her until her death at the ripe age of eighty-eight 
years. She also was a good musician, though not a 
professional one, and sang most charmingly with a 



EARLY DELICACY 3 

sweet soprano voice. Often was I lulled to sleep, 
when a baby, by the duet-singing of my parents, but 
many years must have passed before I could under- 
stand the merit and beauty of it. I remained for 
upwards of eight years their only child, and feel sure 
that it has been given to few men or women to 
recollect so happy a childhood as mine was. 

But this childhood had its troubles, although they 
were little felt by me. I have only learned in later 
years that my babyhood was most precarious that 
I was a miserably w T eak child, and nobody, not even 
the doctor, thought I could live long. Although not 
actually ailing, I had to be brought up like a hot- 
house plant, was seldom taken into the open air, 
which at the period I speak of was mostly considered 
dangerous, and hardly ever admitted into a sick- 
room ; and if I have outgrown that weakness, and 
falsified the prognostics of the doctor, I owe it 
probably to the tender care of a most loving 
mother. Through being kept constantly indoors, my 
life became different from that of other children ; 
there was no romping for me in the playground or 
the garden, and my mother had to find occupation 
for me in the house. She first taught me to read 
when I was but three years old, and at the age of 
four I read as fluently as ever since. Together with 
the alphabet she taught me my notes, to amuse me, 
and as a natural consequence of the musical atmo- 
sphere in which we lived. Well do I remember a 
square book, bound in red morocco and containing 
music paper, in which she had written the notes 

B 2 



4 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

with their names, and which altogether bore testi- 
mony to my progress, for all the little exercises 
and small pieces which I had to learn were 
written in this book, first by her, then by my father, 
when she handed me over to him. At that time 
it was most unusual to teach from a printed ' Piano- 
forte School ' ; the music master was expected in the 
case of beginners to compose exercises and short 
pieces during the lesson, and write them down in a 
book kept for that purpose by the pupil. Such 
was my book, which I treasured for forty years, 
until it was lost with my other luggage on a railway 
journey through Belgium. I have been told many a 
time by my parent teachers that I took to music with 
extraordinary eagerness, that it became my only joy, 
and that my progress was remarkably rapid. It 
must have been so, for the above-mentioned red book 
testified that at four years of age I played a little 
sonata, composed for me by my father, at one of the 
subscription concerts of the ' Concordia ' Society. 

About that time my constitution had become a 
little stronger, and my parents had hopes that I 
might live a few years longer. I was, therefore, less 
confined to the house, and now and then taken to a 
concert, which explains my appearance there as a 
most precocious soloist. To be taken to a concert, 
to listen to a symphony or an overture, was at that 
early age my greatest joy, and I may say that I grew 
up in music, and thought and dreamt of nothing else. 
And well was the life in Hagen calculated to foster 
this taste, for music seemed to be its chief occupation, 



A MUSICAL ATMOSPHERE 5 

just as it was in all the surrounding small towns with 
which I became acquainted in my boyhood. The 
number of good amateurs on various instruments 
was great ; every house resounded with music ; 
about ten subscription concerts were given every 
winter by the ' Concordia ' Society, the orchestra of 
which consisted of professionals and amateurs, about 
forty in number, and was conducted by my father. 
There was also a ' Gesang-Yerein,' which met once a 
week the whole year through, with the exception 
of two summer months, and of which my father 
had also the direction. With the help of this 
society a few concerts were given in the summer 
for the performance of some oratorios, a kind of 
small festival to which the public flocked from all 
the neighbouring towns. To these societies I owe 
my earliest acquaintance with most of the works of 
the greatest composers ; for my progress upon the 
piano had been so rapid that when I was still a child 
my father made me accompany at the meetings of 
the ' Gesano'-Yerein' instead of doing it himself. 

o O 

Thus I became thoroughly familiar with ' The Crea- 
tion,' ' The Seasons,' ' The Mount of Olives,' some of 
Handel's and of Spohr's oratorios, with numer- 
ous other works, at an age when they generally are 
but names to other children. My functions at the 
subscription concerts were of a different nature. I 
had taught myself the violin up to a certain degree, 
in the hope of being enrolled as an amateur second 
violin, but it so happened that the gentleman who 
played the kettle-drums left the town, and I, although 



6 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

seven years old, was considered so good a time- 
keeper that my father promoted me to that important 
and dangerous post. And for eight years did I hold 
it, though not altogether to my credit ; for although 
I found no difficulty in coming in at the right time, 
perhaps on the third beat after fifty-seven bars' rest, 
I could never accomplish a satisfactory roll, hard as 
I laboured at it. The kettle-drum is not exactly an 
instrument suited to a drawing-room, so I could get 
no practice, and I remember even now how I envied 
and admired the drummers of any military band that 
passed through our town, recognising them by far 
my superiors. 

My efforts at these concerts were, however, not 
confined to the drums. Having once played a little 
solo on the piano at the age of four, my kind friends, 
and I believe the whole town consisted of them 
wanted to judge every year of my progress, and I 
had, therefore, to play at least once every season 
gradually more and more important pieces. One of 
these appearances has left a lasting impression upon 
my mind. I was then eight years old, and played 
the variations by Ferdinand Eies on ' Am Ehein, am 
Ehein, da wachsen uns're Keben,' a stock piece at 
that time of a very brilliant character. Before the 
end of the piece, which I did not play from memory, 
I had to stop and tell my father that I could not see 
any more ; there was a veil before my eyes. Our 
own doctor, who was one of the audience, came at 
once to look at me, and pronounced that I had the 
measles, a malady much dreaded at that time. So, 



MY FATHER'S SACRIFICE / 

instead of finishing the variations, I was carefully 
wrapped up, and carried home in my father's arms. 
I was long ill and confined to a room, the temperature 
of which was kept at summer heat, the fire never 
being allowed to go out. I was watched every night 
alternately by my father and my mother, and it so 
happened that one night when it was my father's 
turn, he had been overcome with fatigue and fallen 
asleep, and lo ! when he awoke, the fire had burnt 
out. In his anxiety to light it again, there being no 
real firewood at hand, and the servant sleeping in 
another storey, he broke up his beloved flute, a yellow 
one, I remember upon which I had heard him play 
many a solo by Tulau and other great flautists. The 
fire was relit, and he never regretted, or even alluded 
to, the sacrifice which his paternal love had induced 
him to make ; but I cried bitterly over it when it 
came to my knowledge. 

In course of time I was cured of the measles, but 
they left a very serious inflammation of the eyes, in 
consequence of which I was shut up for weeks in a dark 
room. There was a piano in it, and as soon as I felt 
strong enough I began to practise all my pieces from 
memory in the dark, having to feel for the keyboard, 
for there was not the slightest glimmer of light. I 
still remember how amused I was with certain varia- 
tions by Abbe Gelinck (a very popular composer 
then, but now totally forgotten), in which there were 
many rapid crossings of the hands, and how delighted 
I was when at last I could judge of the distances so 
as to hit the right notes. Illness forced me to try 



8 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

this experiment, but I should recommend it to many 
young players in good health, for it certainly im- 
proves the knowledge of the keyboard. After this 
temporary but severe illness music became again the 
all-absorbing interest of my young life, and by acci- 
dent I gave evidence of having a good ear. Return- 
ing one day from a visit to a great-uncle who lived 
in the same town, and touching our piano, I said to 
my father that the pitch of my uncle's piano was a 
quarter of a tone lower than that of ours, and verifi- 
cation proved me to be correct, to the evident satis- 
faction of my parents. At the same time it became 
an amusement to them and to their friends to put me 
in a corner of the room, strike several notes together, 
sometimes the most incongruous and discordant ones, 
and make me name them, from the lowest upwards, 
which I invariably accomplished. This faculty has 
proved to have one drawback viz. that the pitch of 
that period, a good half-tone lower than the present 
one, has remained so impressed on my brain, that 
when I now hear a piece of music for the first time, 
it seems to me in a higher key than it really is 
written in ; I hear it in C when it is in B, and have 
to translate it, so to say. My friend Joachim shares 
this peculiarity with me, and it is now and then very 
perplexing. 

At that time, when I was eight years old, school 
life had necessarily begun for me for though far 
from robust, I was then in perfect health and con- 
tinued till the year 1835, when I had worked myself 
up to the second place in the highest class. But all 



CLASSICAL CHAMBER MUSIC 9 

my free hours were devoted to music, sometimes even 
those that ought not to have been free. The weekly 
meetings of the ' Gesang-Verein ' made me familiar 
with all the best choral works ; the practice for the 
subscription concerts, with orchestral works, while 
rny father had many quartet parties at our house, 
when I was allowed to turn the leaves, and made my 
first acquaintance with Haydn's quartets. Then my 
father often played with me pianoforte duets, the 
sonatas of Mozart, and arrangements of the sym- 
phonies by the great masters ; also duets for piano 
and violin, as he was an excellent violinist, and my 
love for Mozart and Beethoven's violin sonatas dates 
from that early time. We also played trios with a 
friend of our family, Herr Elbers, a wealthy iron- 
merchant, a remarkable bass singer and good violon- 
cellist, and how I enjoyed Beethoven's wonderful 
trio in B flat I cannot find words to express, nor can 
I describe the enthusiasm with which my father 
exclaimed: ' The whole of Beethoven is to be found in 
the Scherzo ! ' I must have played this trio before 
the year 1827, although I was only seven years old, 
for when I heard of Beethoven's death it seemed to me 
as if a god had departed, and I shed bitter tears. In 
addition to these musical experiences Herr Elbers 
invited me to spend one evening each week at his 
house for the sake of playing violoncello duets with 
him, and for many years these meetings were con- 
tinued. They were a great pleasure to me, not the 
least part of the enjoyment consisting in the excellent 
supper which followed our musical exertions. He 



10 LIFE OF Sill CHARLES HALLE 

was an enthusiastic amateur, and I fully believe that 
we played every piano and violoncello duet, good, 
bad, or indifferent, composed up to that time. The 
five sonatas by Beethoven were repeated innumerable 
times and always with the same zest, but those by 
Hummel, Ferdinand Eies, even Eeissi?er and others 

7 * Zj 

were not neglected. 

In this manner my store of knowledge increased 
constantly. Music, heard by my inner ear, accom- 
panied me at all times and during all my walks, and I 
created for myself a singular test by which to know 
if a piece of music was beautiful or not. There was 
a spot, a bench under a tree by the side of a very 
small water-fall, where I loved to sit and ' think 
music.' Then, going in my mind through a piece 
of music such as Beethoven's 'Adelaide,' or the 
Cavatina from ' Der Freyschlitz,' I could imagine 
that I heard it in the air surrounding me, that the 
whole of nature sang it, and then I knew that it was 
beautiful. Many pieces would not stand that test, 
however hard I tried, and those I rejected as indif- 
ferent. 

During my childhood my father took his family 
every summer to his native town, Arolsen, on a visit 
to his elder brother, who inhabited the house in which 
he had been born. These visits were a delight to me, 
fond as I already was of travelling, and I looked for- 
ward to them for many months previous. The mode 
of travelling differed greatly from our present one, 
but was all the more enjoyable, especially to a young 
and impressionable mind. The journey would nowa- 



S POUR'S KINDNESS 11 

days occupy about four hours, but at that time a 
sort of ' Vetturino,' called llauderer in German, was 
sent from Arolsen to fetch us, and the two amiable 
horses, driven by a coachman bearing the poetical, 
almost Wagnerian name of Friedewald, accomplished 
the distance in two days. On one of these visits, in 
August 1828, my father took me to Cassel, a drive of 
about four hours, in order to pay his respects to 
Spohr, who was then ' Kapellmeister ' there, and at 
the same time to get his opinion as to my musical 
abilities. Spohr was at that time at the height of his 
reputation, not only as a violinist but as a composer. 
From our weekly practices at Hagen I knew his 
oratorios by heart, knew his concertos by having 
heard my father play them, and had been fascinated 
by his luscious melodies and wonderfully sweet har- 
monies and modulations. He was therefore one of 
my demi-gods, only a few degrees lower in my esti- 
mation than Beethoven, Mozart, and Haydn, with 
which revered names I always associated his. My 
excitement during the few minutes we had to wait 
for his appearance in his drawing-room was intense, 
and when his huge figure, looking twice its size 
through wearing a loose dressing-gown reaching to 
his feet, entered, I was awe-struck. He received us 
most kindly, and when I had quite recovered my 
breath he made me play to him, the result of which 
was that he insisted upon my giving a concert in 
Cassel, he himself undertaking all the arrangements, 
enrolling vocalists from the operatic troupe, actually 
two of the most celebrated singers of the time, the 



12 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

soprano, Mile. Heinefetter, and the tenor, Wild. The 
concert took place in the first days of September, 
and created much interest, musical prodigies (I was 
nine years old) being then not so plentiful as they 
have since become. Of the programme, or rather 
my part in it, I ought to feel ashamed, for, in accord- 
ance with the fashion of the hour, it consisted of 
variations by Henri Herz and by Eies, but also, I am 
glad to add, of a rondo by Hummel, which, I hope, 
was more to my taste. As an executive display by 
a child it was much commended in the papers, some 
of which are still in my possession, and Spohr himself 
was pleased, so much so that, when I met him again 
after a lapse of more than twenty years, he began 
at once to speak of this concert, which I thought 
long forgotten. 

I have dwelt upon this, my really first appearance 
before the public (for the concerts at Hagen were 
family affairs), at some length, because it was my 
only one during my childhood ; my fond father, 
jubilant as he was at my success, saying to me on 
returning from the concert, 'My dear boy, once, and 
never again ! ' a resolve which he kept, and for which 
in later years I have felt profoundly grateful. The 
temptation to exploit me must have been very great, 
for we were not in affluent circumstances ; but, 
although healthy then, I was far from strong, and it 
is doubtful if I could have stood the wear and tear 
of the life of a musical prodigy, which consideration 
must have weighed heavily with him ; and it is 
certain that my studies would have been arrested, 



I LEAKX THE ORGAN 13 

my knowledge of music, instead of progressing, 
would liave remained stationary for years, and my 
youthful enthusiasm for music might have been 
jeopardised. 

After our return to Ilagen from this momentous 
excursion, I plunged with renewed zest into my 
daily musical studies, and in addition to the piano 
and the violin began to play the organ. My father 
was organist at the principal church, and I had long 
been accustomed to accompany him every Sunday, 
and sit with him in the organ loft, watching his 
manipulation of the pedals and listening with delight 
to his improvisations. I now asked him, timidly at 
first, to allow me to replace him when simple chorales 
had to be accompanied. He granted this, sitting by 
my side to guard against any blunders which might 
have disturbed the congregation. I soon gained 
confidence, and after a few months I could often go 
alone to the church, and witli the consent of the 
clergy replace him altogether. It was the custom 
then, and still may be, to accompany the Holy Com- 
munion by soft and appropriate music, always im- 
provised, for, according to the varied number of 
communicants, it had to be of longer or shorter 
duration, and I well remember those minutes, and 
how hard I tried to make my improvisation impres- 
sive. It was a new branch of music that opened 
itself to me, to which I took most eagerly, and which 
gave me many new joys. At the same time my 
father presented me with Gottfried Weber's treatise 
of harmony and composition, one of the very best 



14 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

books on the subject ever written, which I devoured 
with eagerness. For years I studied it diligently, 
and derived from it, not only great benefit, but also 
an inestimable amount of the purest pleasure. 

There remains nothing to tell of my childhood 
except one incident, characteristic of the unconscious 
daring of a boy who does not appreciate the difficul- 
ties with which he has to contend. Hagen was 
visited every season by a travelling troupe of singers 
and actors, who during two months gave performances 
of operas, dramas, and comedies in the large ball- 
room of the principal hotel, where a stage was 
erected, there being no regular theatre in the town. 
About a month previous to their visit the director, 
Herr Conradi, came to form the orchestra by inviting 
all the best amateurs to take part in it along with a 
few professional players, and asking my father to 
conduct the performances, without any remuneration 
of course. The love of music was so great that he 
never met with a refusal, and my own progress upon 
the violin having been declared sufficient, I was en- 
rolled as a second violin. Those were fete days for 
me, and I became intimately acquainted with many 
of the best operas by taking an active part in them. 
On one of these visits, when I was eleven years old, it 
chanced that after the first few weeks my father fell 
ill, thus threatening to bring the performances to a 
premature end. Herr Conradi was in despair, seeing 
which I, with a boy's confidence, offered to replace 
my father, was entrusted with the baton, and remained 
at the conductor's desk to the end of the season. 



AN ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTOR 15 

Among the operas which I conducted were 'Die 
Zauberflb'te,' 'Der Freyschiitz,' 'Die Schweitzer 
Familie' (by Weigl, forgotten now), 'Preciosa,' 
' Zampa,' ' Fra Diavolo,' ' Die Stumme von Portici ' 
( Masaniello '), ' Maurer und Schlosser ' (by Auber), 
and others, and it will easily be believed that I felt 
my importance, and was not a little proud of it. 
Nervousness I never felt, but sometimes I cried whilst 
conducting, when the scenes were very affecting, or 
when I was deeply moved by the beauty of the music. 
My acquaintance with an orchestra at so early an 
age and under such circumstances has not been with- 
out advantages to me in later years. The remem- 
brance of these performances, the first I ever wit- 
nessed, is still very vivid; I enjoyed them thoroughly, 
and admired even the mise-en-scene, which, of course, 
was of the most simple and primitive kind. Once 
the performance of ' Don Giovanni ' was enlivened by 
an amusing incident. In the first act, when the Com- 
mendatore steps out of his house to chastise Don 
Giovanni, and gets killed for his pains, instead of 
being accompanied by servants with torches, he only 
carried a candle which he let fall when drawing his 
sword. This unfortunate candle kept burning on the 
ground in dangerous proximity to the side scenes, 
but nobody perceived it except the dead Commenda- 
tore who, being the director of the company and pro- 
prietor of all the scenery, &c., tried in his anxiety by 
grunts and whispers to draw the attention of some- 
body to the impending danger, and not succeeding, 
deliberately sat up, put the candle out with a wetted 



16 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

finger, and lay down again, dead as before. I did 
not conduct that night, fortunately, for I am afraid 
I should never have recovered my gravity sufficiently 
to bring that act to its conclusion. 

Few concert-givers visited our town, which offered 
but small inducements to them; my opportunities for 
getting acquainted with the outside musical world 
were therefore very restricted. I remember, how- 
ever, the visits of two talented French children of 
little more than my own age, Louis Lacombe and his 
sister, both pupils of the Conservatoire, and very 
clever pianists. The remarkable finish of their 
execution impressed me greatly, and never did I 
practise so diligently as after hearing them. Louis 
Lacombe in after years made his mark in France 
both as a pianist and composer, but I never met him 
again, although, as boys we were very intimate. The 

O 7 O / v 

neighbourhood of Hagen, especially Elberfeld, a 
flourishing town, w r as more favoured, and my father 
went there on one occasion to hear Paganini, about 
whom he raved for many months afterwards. Madame 
Catalani, the most celebrated singer of the time, also 
gave a concert there, which I remember from a de- 
scription of her powers given to us by a non-musical 
friend who had made the journey from curiosity to 
hear her, and on his return, full of the most extra- 
ordinary enthusiasm, told my father : ' in one air she 
sang higher and higher, and when she could not get 
any higher, she still sang a little higher, and there 
she did a roll \ ' (meaning she made a shake). 

So, until the age of fifteen, I continued this most 



MY 'ALTER EGO' 17 

happy life at home, steeped in music, my all-absorbing 
passion. Many happy hours I spent in putting the 
quartets by Haydn and Mozart, and some of the 
latter's concertos, into scores (full scores being then 
seldom attainable), gaining thus an insight into the 
working of the great masters I could not otherwise 
have obtained. My public appearances at the 
' Concordia ' concerts continued annually, and became 
gradually more important. The A minor and A flat 
concertos by Hummel, the E flat and C sharp minor 
concertos by Ferdinand Kies, the D minor concerto 
by Kalkbrenner, the C minor concerto by John Field, 
are some of those which I recollect having performed, 
as well as hosts of smaller pieces. Now and then I 
was allowed to play in one of the neighbouring small 
towns, but on the whole my father was against these 
exhibitions, for which, with great justice, he did not 
consider me ripe. He felt that it was now time to 
send me to some great masters for further study in 
harmony and the piano, and after long debate it was 
decided that I should first go to Darmstadt to studv 

ti 

counterpoint with Einck, the celebrated organist, 
and then to Paris in order to take lessons from 
Kalkbrenner. 

So the chapter of my childhood was closed ; a 
childhood so happy that even now it stands vividly 
before my eyes, and the recollection of its manifold 
enjoyments is one of my greatest pleasures. It was 
made still brighter by one of those friendships which, 
contracted in earliest youth, endure through life. 
The son of a schoolmaster, our nearest neighbour, one 

c 



18 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

day older than myself, was my constant companion, 
and never can there have been a greater similarity of 
character, of taste, than between Cornelius Fliiss and 
myself. We shared every joy, every grief, and, I 
may say, every dream. For we were dreamers both, 
as was manifested in many ways. Thus, when we 
were eleven years old, and got hold of Fenimore 
Cooper's exciting novel, ' The Last of the Mohicans,' 
our imaginations were at once filled with a longing for 
wood-life, for wild adventure, and we plunged into a 
dense wood which crowned one of the hills near 
Hagen, sought out the most retired spot, forcing our 
way through brushwood, and there determined to 
build us a hut where we could play at Indians and 
think ourselves far away from any human beings. 
By cutting saplings and clearing a small piece of 
ground, we managed to construct a tiny hut, just 
large enough to creep into, covered it with branches 
and leaves, and there we often lay for hours, dream- 
ing all kinds of dreams. It had been the work of 
weeks, for only spare hours could be devoted to it, 
but when completed we were not satisfied but must 
needs make a little ditch all around it with what 
implements we could stealthily bring to the spot, and 
then raise a tiny wall round our dwelling, which 
assumed the aspect of a miniature fortress, into which 
we retired with a most delicious feeling of isolation 
and safety from intruders, even though they were ever 
so many wild Indians. For two summers our hut was 
our joy and our secret, until one day we found it 
destroyed and an angry note put up by the proprietor 



CHILDISH BELIEFS 19 

of the wood to the effect that trespassers would be 
prosecuted and dealt with according to the utmost 
rigour of the law. So the stern reality shattered our 
dreams and taught us that God's nature was not free 
for boys to use, as we had fondly believed. 

Another of our pleasures was to go out in the 
evening with a lantern to study the stars and the con- 
stellations ; we did not, however, look at the skies by 
means of the lantern, but it enabled us to read the 
map, and in time we became great astronomers. 
Music was a further bond between us ; his apprecia- 
tion of the art being most keen, and his knowledge of 
its literature extensive. Cornelius in later years 
became one of the teachers at the ' Hoch-Schule ' in 
Hagen, and remained my trusted friend till his death 
a few years ago, which seemed to deprive me anew of 
part of my beloved childhood. The world has 
changed so entirely during the last seventy years that 
children of the present day are no longer like the 
children of that past time. Where is the child to be 
found now that up to the age of eight or nine years 
will hold the firm belief that the gifts on Christmas 
morn are brought by an angel from heaven ' Christ- 
kindchen ' in our homely German ? Such was my 
belief, and that of all the children of my age. On 
Christmas Eve there stood the large empty table 
decked with white linen, in the drawing-room, ready 
to receive the gifts, and who could describe the feel- 
ings of confiding awe with which I knelt before the 
open window, praying the good angel to bring me 
nice gifts, and looking up to the stars wonderingly, 



20 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

and half afraid of seeing him descend ? Then came 
the night, full of expectation, retarding sleep until 
very late, from which I was aroused at seven o'clock 
by my mother with the joyful words : ' Christ- 
kindchen ist hier gewesen ' (Christ-child has been 
here). And lo ! there stood the Christmas-tree, with 
its hundred tiny wax lights, its golden nuts and 
apples, in the middle of the table, covered now with 
toys and other small gifts, amongst which I always 
found a new piece of music, generally coveted long 
before. It was a happy day, and so deep and lasting 
has been its impression upon me, that wherever, and 
under whatever circumstances, I have spent Christmas 
Day, even when alone in Paris, I have had my 
Christmas-tree, got up by myself in the old fashion, 
sometimes under considerable difficulties. I was 
eight years old, I believe, when another boy, a little 
older than myself, told me that we owed the Christmas 
gifts to our parents, that they did not come from 
heaven. This gave me such a shock that I fell with 
both my fists upon the boy, pommelling him with all 
my might ; but I got the worst of the battle, almost 
the only one I fought in my life, and came home cry- 
ing to ask for confirmation of the dreadful tale. Mv 

o / 

dear mother had to give it, but did it in such a 
delicate way that, although I felt the mysterious 
poetry of that night was gone, my love for my 
parents was increased. 

The summer in Hagen brought other delights 
when I was a little older. Placed in a lovely narrow 
valley on both sides of a small, clear river the 



THE PRINCE OF IIOHEN-LIMBURG 21 

Volme Hagen was surrounded by gardens, rich 
with fruit trees, strawberries, and other dainties. 
Through the narrow lanes formed by these gardens, 
and with the smell of the rich vegetation in our 
noses, my father walked every summer evening with 
me by his side, telling me stories of the great com- 
posers and anecdotes from his own musical life, thus 
filling me more and more with love for music. 
Great was my joy when now and then he took me 
on a fine afternoon as far as Limburg, a small town 
with a beautifully situated castle on the top of a hill, 
the residence of the Prince of Hohen-Limburg. This 
was a walk of about an hour, mostly through a forest 
of pine- and beech-wood covering two hills we had 
to pass. The goal of our promenade was an inn, 
Herr Polcher's, very primitive, but with a beautiful 
garden, a good assembly room, which generally, 
when my father's visit was expected, saw many of his 
friends assembled around a long table, the reunions 
being often graced by the presence of the good old 
prince himself, who was a great lover of music and 
the other fine arts, and fond of genial society. In 
spite of the large star that decked his breast, his 
princely dignity was soon forgotten in the banter of 
wit in which he good-humouredly joined. I remem- 
ber one amusing incident, the thought of which pro- 
vokes my mirth even now. The whole company, 
prince included, sang in chorus a simple German 
ditty, ' Der La-la-la-la-Laudon rilckt an ' (Laudon ad- 
vances), repeated innumerably ; the fun consisting in 
the manner in which the leader (my father) started 



22 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

each repeat, which, the whole company had to 
imitate, now giving it out in full stentorian voice, 
then in a whisper, now in sentimental adagio fashion, 
then in humorous dance rhythm, now standing, now 
sitting and turning their faces to the wall, every 
change being totally unexpected. In one variation 
my father jumped upon the chair, set one foot upon 
the table covered with bottles and glasses, a feat 
which the fat little prince had no slight trouble in 
imitating, and then the song had to be gone through 
without an audible sound, with motion of the lips 
only, the uplifted right hands marking the rhythm. 
At this moment one of the waiters entered with a 
fresh supply of bottles and glasses, and was so over- 
come by the extraordinary spectacle of so many 
guests having apparently gone suddenly mad that he 
let the bottles slip, and their crash and the stare on 
his astonished face changed the mute scene into one 
of boisterous laughter. After these good-natured 
follies came the enjoyable walk home through the 
still moonlight, the metallic notes of the innumerable 
frogs (' Unke ') forming a concert, which often made 
our steps linger, and harmonised with my father's 
talk about music and musicians. Passing through 
the dark wood I crept close to him, my imagination 
peopling it with highway robbers, and found a sense 
of protection and comfort in the touch of his hand 
and the glow of his long pipe. 

At that time the public force in Hagen consisted 
of one policeman and one night-watchman ; it was 
fortunate, therefore, that robbers were not to be 



NIGHT WATCHMEN 23 

found in flesh and blood. The night-watchman, with 
his horn and long staff, was an object of mysterious 
interest to me, a shadowy form, only to be seen once 
every year, in the night from December 31st to 
January 1st, as I shall relate presently. But every 
evening I heard the sounds of his horn, blowing once 
at 10 o'clock, twice at 11, three times at midnight. 
What he did after that hour, if he added one blow at 
every hour or went to bed, I have never learnt. I 
was always happy to feel that some one was watching 
over me, and felt more comfortable in bed when I 
heard the horn and the simple ditty which the 
watchman sang every hour : 

o * 

Hort, ihr Leut, und lasst euch sagen, 
Die Glocke hat zehn [elf, zwolf] geschlagen : 
Bewahrt das Feuer und das Licht, 
Damit euch kein Schaden gebricht. 1 

Once in the year, on New Year's night, this per- 
formance was varied at 12 o'clock midnight. A 
chorus, principally of children, accompanied the 
watchman through the streets, and after the three 
notes of the horn, sang with him this verse : 

Das alte Jahr vergangen ist ; 
Wir danken dir, Herr Jesu Christ, 
Dass du uns in so mancher Gefahr 
So gnadiglich behiitet dies Jahr. 2 

The tune was one of the fine Lutheran chorales, but 

1 ' Listen, people, and take heed. The clock has struck ten [eleven, 
twelve]. Look well to your fire and light that DO harm may come to 
you.' 

2 ' The old year is passed away. We thank thee, Lord Jesus Christ, 
for so mercifully preserving us in so many perils this year.' 



24 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

much embroidered. The first line in the original 
standing 



/Ts 




The effect of the clear children's voices through 
the stillness of the night being heard faintly in the 
distance at first and gradually drawing nearer and 
nearer was overpowering to me, and made all my 
nerves tingle. I always insisted upon being led to 
the open window when the small singing crowd 
passed our house, and then I could admire the 
watchman with his lantern, look at him with deep- 
felt gratitude, and envy the children who were 
allowed to accompany and sing with him. Strange 
to say my recollection of those emotional nights is 
always associated with a clear starry sky, and pure 
white snow covering streets and houses, so that I 
sometimes wonder if the weather never was bad on 
December 31 in my early youth. It may have been 
so, but certainly very seldom, not often enough to 
tarnish their bright image. It was the custom of my 
father to sit up with his family into the New Year, 
drinking our health at the stroke of midnight in a 
glass of self-brewed punch (a custom which I have 
religiously preserved up to this day). It was the 



A ROMANTIC POSTMAN 25 

one exception to our early bed-going, and it was thus 
that I got a glimpse of the night-watchman, only to 
see him again after another year had elapsed. 

As there was but one policeman and one night- 
watchman in Hagen, so there was also but one letter- 
carrier, a man beloved by all children on account of 
his great kindness to them. It was only in much 
later years, but when I was still a young man, that I 
heard the singular story of this man, and tried even, 
but unsuccessfully, to unravel the mystery connected 
with it. He was born at Aix-la-Chapelle in 1792, 
his parents being French emigrants ; he was chris- 
tened there, and his name entered in the register as 
Louis Chabot. He was confided to a nurse, his 
parents having to continue their flight, and for years 
he was amply provided for, until suddenly the supplies 
were stopped, and no further tidings were received 
from his family. He had no means of tracing them, 
and a life of misery began for him, through which he 
fought bravely, being at last stranded as the solitary 
postman at Hagen. The universal belief of all who 
knew him and his story, a belief fully warranted by 
the refinement of his manners and the dignity of his 
aristocratic bearing, was that he belonged to the great 
French family of the Due de Chabot-Latour. He him- 
self believed it, and in his humble circumstances lived 
so that a sudden call to fortune and to an eminent posi- 
tion would have found him quite fit for the change. 
The family of Chabot-Latour was approached on his 
behalf, and on one occasion a gentleman came from 
Paris to Hagen to inquire into the circumstances, but 



26 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

apparently some link in the chain of proof of his iden- 
tity was missing, and Chabot perhaps Duke Chabot 
died a postman, respected by the whole community. 

One more anecdote about Hagen and I shall leave 
the dear place. Everybody knows that in Prussia 
there is a State lottery, and in every town, big or 
small, there is a collector, appointed to sell the 
tickets or ' Loose.' To the collector in Hagen came 
a servant girl (in service in a family of our acquaint- 
ance), and asked if she could buy No. 23. He had 
not got it, but the girl seeming much in earnest, he 
kindly promised to inquire if any of the collectors in 
other towns had that particular ticket still to dispose 
of, and he succeeded. The drawing took place some 
weeks afterwards, and Hagen got into a state of 
feverish excitement when it became known that the 
girl had won one of the big prizes, representing some 
thousands of pounds sterling. She became of course 
the one object of interest in the town, was ' inter- 
viewed' constantly, and when asked how she could 
have fixed upon No. 23, she gave this simple and 
lucid explanation : ' I dreamt one night No. 7, and a 
second night I dreamt 7, and a third night 7 again, 
so I thought 3 times 7 makes 23, and I bought that 
number ! ' So much for the value of knowledge ! 1 

In June, 1835, I left my beloved parents, and my 
dear native town, and travelled up the Ehine to 

1 The late Mr. Locker-Lampson relates in his Confidences that he 
heard this story from Mr. Hall6 as he then was and subsequently 
told it to the late Dean Stanley, whose ignorance of arithmetic was 
notorious, and that the Dean, unable to see the joke, observed, not with- 
out a shadow of dejection, ' Ah, yes, J see, yes ; I suppose three times 
seven is not twenty-three.' 



EINCK'S TEACHING 27 

Darmstadt, a two days' journey at that time. Einck, a 
somewhat stout and elderly man, with a most benevo- 
lent countenance, received me most kindly, and helped 
me soon over the timidity with which I had approached 
him at first. Einck was one of the most learned 
musicians in Germany, and his organ compositions, 
most of which I was familiar with, have remained 
models of their kind. The very next day we arranged 
for the beginning of my studies, but I was slightly 
taken aback when he fixed G o'clock in the morning 
as the hour of my lessons, and wondered also at the 
remark he made when appointing that early time : 
' From five to six I compose ' ; the process of com- 
posing seeming to me scarcely compatible with fixed 
hours. But this habit may perhaps account for a 
certain dryness attached to most of his works. I 
worked very diligently during the year I remained 
with him, and apparently to his satisfaction. 

It was, however, fortunate for me that I had 
studied harmony and counterpoint for years before, 
otherwise I might have profited little by Einck's 
teaching. It was his custom, when correcting exer- 
cises, to say, ' I should have done it so,' never vouch- 
safing a reason for his corrections ; the pupil, if 
advanced enough to understand and appreciate the 
improvement in Einck's version, learned a great deal ; 
if not, the teaching did not improve his knowledge. 
Besides working at strict counterpoint with my 
master, writing canons, fugues, &c., &c., my general 
musical studies were also largely directed by Gott- 
fried Weber, to whom I had been introduced by 



28 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Einck. Weber, the author of one of the best works 
on harmony and composition, was not a professional 
musician, as he held a high position in the law ; but 
there were few professional musicians who had his 
knowledge, his judgment, and his love for the art. 
He was no mean composer himself, having written 
Masses, cantatas, songs, and other works, and 
nobody could point out the beauties of the great 
composers' creations better than he did, or make 
one feel their power. Many were the works I had 
the privilege of studying with him, and delightful 
w r ere the hours spent over them. It w r as he who 
made me first love and appreciate Cherubini, one of 
his favourites, with whose compositions I had, until 
then, been little acquainted. His mature mind also 
harboured the same enthusiasm for Beethoven which 
lived in my youthful soul, and nothing could be more 
interesting, or more instructive than to hear him 
analyse some of the master's symphonies. 

It was in Darmstadt also that I first heard a really 
fine orchestra powerful and well trained, to which 
our homely orchestra in Hagen could not be com- 
pared. The then grand duke was a great lover of 
music, a musician himself, and under his watchful 
care Hof kapellmeister Mangold had brought together 
a band equal to any of the best in Germany. To my 
great joy I was allowed to attend the rehearsals ; and 
these were most numerous, taking place almost daily, 
and apparently merely for the pleasure of the prac- 
tice. They seemed to be the only occupation of the 
members of the orchestra; in fact in quiet Darm- 



ORCHESTRAL MUSIC AT DARMSTADT 29 

stadt nobody appeared to have anything in particular 
to do, and nothing could exceed the stillness of its 
vast and regular streets. I remember up to the 
present day the deep impression which Beethoven's 
Eroica Symphony made upon me, especially the mar- 
vellous Funeral March. 1 Sitting in a dark corner of 
the half-lighted theatre (the rehearsals took place on 
the stage), I was rapt in wonderment and trembling 
all over. There is in particular a long A flat for 
the oboe, about thirty-four bars before the close of 
the march, for which I always waited with perfect 
awe, and which made my flesh creep. The rehearsals 
of this one symphony were continued a full month, 
by the end of which I knew it by heart, not having 
missed a single one. During that month it was the 
all-absorbing topic of conversation amongst musicians, 
and the rehearsals, far from being shunned by the 
members of the orchestra, as is so often the case, 
were expected with impatience. 

The studies with Einck and Weber, and the equally 
important study of the works of the best com- 
posers, either by hearing them in Darmstadt or in 
Frankfort or by reading them, made me neglect the 
piano to a certain extent ; nevertheless I had many 
opportunities of playing in private circles, and if I 
did not make any progress as a pianist during the 
year in Darmstadt, I promised myself to work all the 
harder in Paris, where the study of the piano would 
not be interfered with by anything, and would be 
my sole object. 

1 In obedience to his wish, this March was played at my father's 
funeral. C. E. H. 



30 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

I left Darmstadt and my dear old master with 
sincere regret in the autumn of 1836, travelling by 
' diligence' via Metzand Chalons, sleeping at each place 
by order of the doctor, for I was even then not very 
robust, and such a journey was at that time a formidable 
undertaking. A great disappointment awaited me 
after having crossed the French frontier and finding 
myself in the interior of the huge ' diligence ' with four 
Frenchmen. At school I had been considered a very 
fair French scholar, reading and even speaking the 
language with a certain amount of fluency ; great, 
therefore, was my astonishment when I did not under- 
stand a word of the conversation of my fellow- 
travellers, although I was all attention, and I arrived 
in Paris very crestfallen. It took a long time before 
my ear got accustomed to the unfamiliar sound, but 
then my former studies proved of great advantage. 
I may relate here that when two years later I paid a 
visit to Hagen and met my old teacher of French he 
addressed me joyfully in what he believed to be that 
language, but I no longer understood him, and he left 
me fully convinced that I had forgotten all he had 
taught me. 

Arrived in Paris, and settled in a small German 
hotel in the Eue Vivienne, I began after a few days 
to deliver the letters of introduction I had brought 
with me, one of my first visits being to Kalkbrenner. 
Kalkbrenner and Hummel were at that time con- 
sidered the greatest pianists, and even Chopin had 
come to Paris a few years before to learn from Kalk- 
brenner. I therefore approached him with con- 



FIRST MEETING WITH CHOPIN 31 

siderable trepidation, and great was my disappoint- 
ment when he told me that he no longer took pupils. 
He, however, kindly invited me to play something, 
to which he listened carefully, and then made some 
unpleasant remarks and advised me to take lessons 
from one of his pupils. As I was about to leave him 
he offered to play for me, saying that it might prove 
useful to me to hear him. I accepted eagerly and 
was full of expectation, when he sat down and played 
a new piece of his composition, entitled ' Le Fou,' 
one of the most reasonable and dullest pieces ever 
perpetrated. I admired the elegance and neatness 
of his scales and legato playing, but was not other- 
wise struck by his performance, having expected 
more, and wondering at some wrong notes which I 
had detected. 

I did not at once follow his advice with regard to 
the teacher he had recommended, and two or three 
days later I received an invitation to dinner from 
the banker Mallet, to whom an uncle of mine, 
Harkort of Leipzig, had recommended me, and found 
myself sitting beside Chopin. The same evening I 
heard him play, and was fascinated beyond expres- 
sion. It seemed to me as if I had got into another 
world, and all thought of Kalkbrenner was driven 
out of my mind. I sat entranced, filled with won- 
derment, and if the room had suddenly been peopled 
with fairies, I should not have been astonished. The 
marvellous charm, the poetry and originality, the 
perfect freedom and absolute lucidity of Chopin's 
playing at that time cannot be described. It was 



32 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

perfection in every sense. He seemed to be pleased 
with the evident impression he had produced, for I 
could only stammer a few broken words of admira- 
tion, and he played again and again, each time 
revealing new beauties, until I could have dropped 
on my knees to worship him. I returned home in a 
state of complete bewilderment, and it was only the 
next day that I began to realise what was before me 
how much study and hard work, in order to get 
that technical command over the keyboard, without 
which I knew now that no good result could be 
achieved. Strange to say, the idea of taking lessons 
did not occur to me then ; I felt that what I had to 
do could be done without a master ; lessons of style 
might be more useful later on. I shut myself up and 
practised twelve hours and more a day, until one day 
my left hand was swollen to about twice its usual 
size, causing me considerable anxiety. For some 
months I hardly ever left my rooms, and only when 
I received invitations to houses where I knew I 
should meet, and perhaps hear, Chopin. There 
were not many of them in Paris, for Chopin, impelled 
by growing weakness, began even then to lead a very 
retired life. He used still to visit principally Count 
de Perthuis, the banker August Leo, Mallet, and a 
few other houses. Fortunately for me I had been 
introduced by letters to the above three gentlemen, 
and enjoyed the privilege of being invited to their 
' reunions intimes,' when Chopin, who avoided large 
parties, was to be present. With greater familiarity 
my admiration increased, for I learned to appreciate 



CHOPIN'S MUSIC 33 

what before had principally dazzled me. In personal 
appearance he was also most striking, his clear-cut 
features, diaphanous complexion, beautiful brown 
waving hair, the fragility of his frame, his aristocratic 
bearing, and his princelike manners, singling him 
out, and making one feel the presence of a superior 
man. Meeting often, we came into closer contact, 
and although at that time I never exhibited what 
small powers I might possess as a pianist, he knew 
me as an ardent student, and divined that I not 
merely admired but understood him. With time our 
acquaintance developed into real friendship, which I 
am happy to say remained undisturbed until the end 
of his too short life. 

From the year 1830 to 1848, a period during 
which he created many of his most remarkable works, 
it was my good fortune to hear him play them succes- 
sively as they appeared, and each seemed a new reve- 
lation. It is impossible at the present day, when 
Chopin's music has become the property of every 
schoolgirl, when there is hardly a concert-programme 
without his name, to realise the impression which 
these works produced upon musicians when they first 
appeared, and especially when they were played by 
himself. I can confidently assert that nobody has 
ever been able to reproduce them as they sounded 
under his magical fingers. In listening to him you 
lost all power of analysis ; you did not for a moment 
think how perfect was his execution of this or that 
difficulty ; you listened, as it were, to the improvisa- 
tion of a poem and were under the charm as long as 



34 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

it lasted. A remarkable feature of his playing was 
the entire freedom with which he treated the rhythm, 
but which appeared so natural that for years it had 
never struck me. It must have been in 1845 or 1846 
that I once ventured to observe to him that most of 
his mazurkas (those dainty jewels), when played by 
himself, appeared to be written, not in 3-4, but in 
4-4 time, the result of his dwelling so much longer 
on the first note in the bar. He denied it strenuously, 
until I made him pla}^ one of them and counted 
audibly four in the bar, which fitted perfectly. 
Then he laughed and explained that it was the 
national character of the dance which created the 
oddity. The more remarkable fact was that you 
received the impression of a 3-4 rhythm whilst listen- 
ing to common time. Of course this was not the case 
with every mazurka, but with many. I understood 
later how ill-advised I had been to make that observa- 
tion to him and how well disposed towards me he 
must have been to have taken it with such good 
humour, for a similar remark made by Meyerbeer, 
perhaps in a somewhat supercilious manner, on 
another occasion, led to a serious quarrel, and I 
believe Chopin never forgave him. Any deliberate 
misreading of his compositions he resented sharply. 
I remember how, on one occasion, in his gentle way 
he laid his hand upon my shoulder, saying how un- 
happy he felt, because he had heard his ' Grande 
Polonaise,' in A flat, jouee vite I thereby destroying all 
the grandeur, the majesty, of this noble inspiration. 
Poor Chopin must be rolling round and round in his 



CHOPIN'S AUTISTIC ISOLATION 35 

grave nowadays, for this misreading has unfor- 
tunately become the fashion. 

I may as well continue to speak about Chopin 
here and take up the thread of my narrative later on, 
all the more as it will fill little space. His public 
appearances were few and far between, and consisted 
in concerts given in the ' Salon Pleyel,' when he pro- 
duced his newest compositions, the programme open- 
ing, I think, invariably with Mozart's Trio in E 
major, the only work by another composer which I 
ever heard him play. He was so entirely identified 
with his own music that it occurred to no one to 
inquire or even to wish to know how he would play, 
say. Beethoven's sonatas. If he was well acquainted 
with them remains a moot point. One day, long 
after I had emerged from my retirement and achieved 
some notoriety as a pianist, I played at his request, 
in his own room, the sonata in E flat, Op. 30, No. 3, 
and after the finale he said that it was the first time 
he had liked it, that it had always appeared to him 
very vulgar. I felt flattered, but was much struck 
by the oddity of the remark. In another direction, 
he did not admire Mendelssolin's ' Lieder ohne Worte,' 
with the exception of the first of the first book, which 
he called a song of the purest virginal beauty. When 
one reflects on the wonderful originality of his genius, 
the striking difference of his works from any written 
before him, without making comparison as to their 
respective worth, one feels it natural that he should 
have lived in his own world, and that other music, even 
the very greatest, did not touch all his sympathies. 



36 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

When I first knew him he was still a charmiug 
companion, gay and full of life ; a few years later his 
bodily decline began ; he grew weaker and weaker, 
to such a degree, that when we dined together at 
Leo's or at other friends' houses, he had to be carried 
upstairs, even to the first floor. His spirits and his 
mental energy remained, nevertheless, unimpaired, 
a proof of which he gave one evening, when, after 
having written his sonata for piano and violoncello, 
he invited a small circle of friends to hear it played by 
himself and Franchomme. On our arrival we found 
him hardly able to move, bent like a half opened pen- 
knife, and evidently in great pain. We entreated him to 
postpone the performance, but he would not hear of 
it ; soon he sat down to the piano, and as he warmed 
to his work, his body gradually resumed its normal 
position, the spirit having mastered the flesh. In 
spite of his declining physical strength, the charm of 
his playing remained as great as ever, some of the 
new readings he was compelled to adopt having a 
peculiar interest. Thus at the last public concert he 
gave in Paris, at the end of the year 1847 or the 
beginning of 1848, he played the latter part of his 
'Barcarolle,' from the point where it demands the 
utmost energy, in the most opposite style, pianissimo, 
but with such wonderful nuances, that one remained 
in doubt if this new reading were not preferable to the 
accustomed one. Nobody but Chopin could have 
accomplished such a feat. The last time I saw him 
was in England ; he had come to London a few weeks 
after my arrival there in 1848, and I had the privilege 



LISZT 37 

and the happiness to hear him several times at Mrs. 
Sartoris's and Henry F. Chorley's houses. The admi- 
ration which he elicited knew no bounds ; there w r e 
heard for the first time the beautiful valses, Op. 62, 
recently composed and published, which since have 
become the most popular of his smaller pieces. I had 
the pleasure afterwards to welcome him to Manchester, 
where he played at one of the concerts of the society 
called the Gentlemen's Concerts in the month of 
August. It was then painfully evident that his end 
was drawing near ; a year later he w r as no more. 

To return to my own experiences in 1836, 1 have 
to relate that a few days after having made the 
acquaintance of Chopin, I heard Liszt for the first time 
at one of his concerts, and went home with a feeling 
of thorough dejection. Such marvels of executive 
skill and power I could never have imagined. He 
was a giant, and Eubinstein spoke the truth when, at 
the time when his own triumphs were greatest, he 
said that, in comparison with Liszt, all other pianists 
were children. Chopin carried you with him into a 
dreamland, in which you would have liked to dwell 
for ever ; Liszt was all sunshine and dazzling splendour, 
subjugating his hearers with a power that none could 
withstand. For him there were no difficulties of 
execution, the most incredible seeming child's play 
under his fingers. One of the transcendent merits of 
his playing was the crystal-like clearness which never 
failed for a moment even in the most complicated 
and, to anybody else, impossible passages ; it was as 
if he had photographed them in their minutest detail 



38 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

upon the ear of his listener. The power he drew 
from his instrument was such as I have never heard 
since, but never harsh, never suggesting ' thumping.' 
His daring was as extraordinary as his talent. At 
an orchestral concert given by him and conducted by 
Berlioz, the 'March au Supplice,' from the hitter's 
' Symphonie Fantastique,' that most gorgeously instru- 
mented piece, was performed, at the conclusion of 
which Liszt sat down and played his own arrangement, 
for the piano alone, of the same movement, with an 
effect even surpassing that of the full orchestra, and 
creating an indescribable furore. The feat had been 
duly announced in the programme beforehand, a 
proof of his indomitable courage. 

If, before his marvellous execution, one had only 
to bow in admiration, there were some peculiarities 
of style, or rather of musicianship, which could not 
be approved. I was very young and most impres- 
sionable, but still his tacking on the finale of the 
C sharp minor sonata (Beethoven's) to the variations 
of the one in A flat, Op. 26, gave me a shock, in spite 
of the perfection with which both movements were 
played. Another example : he was fond at that time 
of playing in public his arrangement for piano of the 
' Scherzo,' ' The Storm,' and the finale from Beet- 
hoven's ' Pastoral Symphony ; ''The Storm' was simply 
magnificent, and no orchestra could produce a more 
telling or effective tempest. The peculiarity, the 
oddity, of the performance, consisted in his playing 
the first eight bars of the ' Scherzo ' rather quicker 
than they are usually taken, and the following eight 



THALBERG 39 

bars, the B major phrase, in a slow andante time ; 
' ce sont les vieux,' he said to me on one occasion. 
It may serve to characterise the state of musical 
knowledge in Paris, at the time I speak of, when I 
state that at a concert given by Liszt in 1837, in the 
Salle Erard, the B flat Trio by Beethoven, which 
stood at the commencement of the programme, and 
Mayseder's Trio in A flat, which was to begin the 
second part, were transposed for some reason or other, 
without the fact being announced to the public. The 
consequence was that Mayseder's Trio, passing for 
Beethoven, was received with acclamation, and 
Beethoven's very coldly, the newspapers also eulo- 
gising the first and criticising the length and dry- 
ness of the other severely. Of the man Liszt I shall 
have now and then something to say when I arrive 
at the time of our more intimate acquaintance. 

With Thalberg there came a new sensation in the 
same year. Totally unlike in style to either Chopin 
or Liszt, he was admirable and unimpeachable in his 
own way. His performances were wonderfully 
finished and accurate, giving the impression that a 
wrong note was an impossibility. His tone was 
round and beautiful, the clearness of his passage- 
playing crystal-like, and he had brought to the 
utmost perfection the method, identified with his 
name, of making a melody stand out distinctly through 
a maze of brilliant passages. He did not appeal to 
the emotions, except those of wonder, for his playing 
was statuesque ; cold, but beautiful and so masterly 
that it was said of him with reason he would play 



40 LIFE 01' SIR CHARLES HALLE 

with the same care and finish if roused out of the 
deepest sleep in the middle of the night. He created 
a great sensation in Paris, and became the idol of the 

o 7 

public, principally, perhaps, because it was felt that 
he could be imitated, even successfully, which with 
Chopin and Liszt was out of the question. 

The hearing of Liszt and Thalberg put Kalk- 
brenner's advice still more in the shade. I went on 
listening to the three mighty heroes as often as I had 
an opportunity and relentlessly pursuing my studies 
by myself. By the help of some influential introduc- 
tions I had brought with me, I made by degrees 
interesting acquaintances. It was probably on 
account of my youth, and my great enthusiasm for 
music, that I was at once treated with great kindness 
by men at the zenith of their fame and much older 
than myself. This was the case with Meyerbeer, 
Halevy, Liszt, and others, to whose nearer acquaint- 
ance I was helped through the then all powerful 
music-publisher, Maurice Schlesinger. The Parisian 
artistic and literary society, at that time, was so con- 
stituted that to know a few men of mark was to know 
them all, and certainly more by luck than by any 
merit, I soon found myself at home in circles of which 
I had read and dreamed, but which I had not hoped 
to enter. Gradually I had then to throw off my 
reserve and to play when I was asked, confining my- 
self to excerpts from Beethoven and a few other 
composers. I met with success and encouragement, 
but for three years I resisted all attempts to make me 
appear in public, for which I did not feel myself ripe. 



SEANCES AT M. GUIBERT'S 41 

During this time of labour I was visited one day, only 
a few months after my arrival, by a gentleman, Mon- 
sieur Guibert, a rich ' agent-de-change,' who had 
heard of me, and made me the following proposal. 
He had two sons, ten and twelve years of age, was 
extremely fond of music, his wife and only brother 
equally so, and he wished to form the taste of his boys 
and make them thoroughly acquainted with the best 
compositions, for which purpose he asked me to devote 
one evening every week to himself and his family, 
and play for them whatever I liked and as much as I 
liked. It reminded me of the evenings with Herr 
Elbers ; and M. Guibert adding a very handsome 
pecuniary inducement to his proposal, we soon 
agreed, and from that time for years I dined every 
Thursday at his table and revelled in music for hours 
afterwards. No strangers were admitted, and it was 
a delight to me to expound and make them feel the 
beauties of the various works we went through. Of 
course the sonatas of Beethoven were chiefly and 
diligently studied, but Mozart, Haydn, Bach, Weber, 
Dussek, Hummel, Clementi, and others were not 
neglected. I even played the arrangements of Beet- 
hoven's, Mozart's, and Haydn's symphonies ; in fact, 
there was hardly anything in the whole range of 
music capable of being rendered on the piano with 
which I did not get familiar by familiarising my friends 
with it. These seances, repeated so constantly for 
we only allowed a break of a few months in the 
summer were of immense advantage to myself, for 
there were many pieces I might have neglected but 



42 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

for the desire to increase our repertoire to the ut- 
most. 

I owe them also one great joy which alone would 
have made them for ever worthy of my remembrance. 
It was in 1838 that M. Guibert asked if for once I 
would allow him to admit a friend, a sincere lover of 
music, to be present on one of our evenings. The 
request being readily granted, the friend came on the 
following Thursday, and turned out to be Salvator 
Cherubim, the eldest son of one of my idols, the great 
composer. Overjoyed as I was, my rapture became 
indescribable when a few days later M. Salvator 
called upon me with a message from his father, to the 
effect that he wished to make my acquaintance and 
hoped I would sometimes spend a Sunday evening 
with him. I felt as if I had received the Grand Cross 
of the Legion of Honour, and of course the next Sun- 
day evening I presented myself at the ' Conservatoire,' 
where Cherubini lived, trembling with emotion. The 
veneration I felt for him must have been strongly 
depicted on my face, for he received me smiling and 
endeavoured, by speaking of the pleasure I had given 
to his son which pleasure he hoped soon to enjoy 
also to encourage and set me at my ease. No easy 
task, for only in the presence of Beethoven could I 
have felt the same emotion. His old friend Berton, 
the once greatly-renowned composer, was with him 
(' les inseparables ' they were called), and greeted me 
with equal kindness. Cherubim had a great regard 
for my former master, Einck, also for G. Weber. 
After some conversation, of which they formed the 



CHERUBIM 43 

subject, I was requested to play one of Beethoven's 
sonatas, Cherubim professing to be but little ac- 
quainted with them, which I found to be the truth 
by his asking for certain movements, even for whole 
sonatas, over again not only on this but on many 
subsequent occasions, for to my intense satisfaction I 
was invited to repeat my visit. Most of the sonatas 
I had then the privilege of playing in the presence of 
Cherubini and Berton were evidently new to them, 
somewhat to my astonishment, but there could be no 
doubt about the interest with which they listened to 
them an interest demonstrated solely by their silent 
attention and the requests for repeats, for not once 
did Cherubini make a remark on the beauty or the 
character of the works, or criticise them in any way. 
His silence reminded me of the story told of his wit- 
nessing the first performance of one of Halevy's operas, 
from the composer's box. He kept silence there, until 
after the second act Hale vy, his pupil, asked, ' Maestro, 
have you nothing to say to me ? ' when Cherubini 
snarled back, ' I have been listening to you for two 
hours and you have said nothing to me.' But in 
listening to Beethoven's sonatas his silence could cer- 
tainly not be attributed to a similar cause ; that I 
saw clearly, even by the play of his handsome features, 
and why should he have asked me to repeat my visits, 
had it not been for the interest he felt in these sonatas, 
which seemed to grow the more I played of them ? 

Sayings of his, like the above to Halevy, were 
currently quoted at the time and made him the terror 
of most people who had to deal with him. There 



44 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

seemed to be no actual ' mechancete ' in him, only an 
inability to calculate the effect of his words, as in the 
case of the young man who applied for admission into 
the operatic class of the Conservatoire, but was so 
ill-favoured by nature that the professors thought it 
would be a kindness to him to deter him from trying 
his luck on the stage. But who was to tell him in a 
delicate way ? Cherubini volunteered to do so, sent 
for the young man, and said, ' Dear sir, the Conser- 
vatoire regrets to be unable to accept you as a pupil 
because you are too ugly.' That was his manner 
of softening a rude blow. 

My evenings at the Conservatoire were greatly 
enjoyed by me, and if Cherubini was reticent in ex- 
pressing an opinion on Beethoven, he could talk 
enthusiastically about Gluck, Spontini, and music as 
an art and a science. About Eossini and the whole 
school of his followers, then in the ascendant, he 
could become very sarcastic ; it was a topic carefully 
to be avoided. And so was the mention of the name 
of Berlioz, who had already become one of my 
friends. But of him later. 

POSTSCRIPT 

Of the first sixteen years of my father's life, passed almost 
entirely at home, but one short letter has been preserved ; it 
is a little birthday greeting, written at the age of six or 
seven to his favourite Uncle Hiigel, and only remarkable as 
bearing the promise of the firm, clear, and beautiful hand- 
writing that he retained all his life. 

Two compositions also remain to us ; the first, which he 
called a ' hops ' waltz, is dedicated to the same ' dear Uncle 
Hiigel,' by ' Carlchen Halle,' and thus endorsed by Herr Hiigel: 



CONCERT AT CASSEL 45 

A token of affection from Carl Halle. This darling child 
composed and wrote out the above waltz at the age of five ; the 
little genius already plays several sonatas by the great masters 
with great perfection and feeling. 

The second composition, also a waltz, was written the 
following year : 

Waltz for my dear father's birthday, the 15th March, 1826, 
composed by your son, CARL HALLE. 

The page is adorned with a little vignette, representing 
a winged cupid standing on a footstool, and playing on a 
pianoforte, the work of his fast friend and ally, Uncle 
Hiigel. 

My father has described in his memoirs the visit to 
Cassel with his father, in 1828, the concert he gave there, 
and his interview with Spohr. In those days, when adver- 
tising had scarcely been invented, almost the only announce- 
ment of this concert consisted of the following statement, 
written entirely in my grandfather's hand, on a large sheet 
of foolscap paper, now yellow with age : 

On Tuesday, the 16th of this month, my son, Carl Halle, nine 
years old, will give a Musical Evening in Herr Oestreich's Hall, 
and will perform several pieces by Bies, Herz, &c., on the piano- 
forte. The rare talent of this child induces me to hope that he 
will afford the amateurs of music an enjoyable evening's enter- 
tainment, the more so that Fraulein Heinefetter and Herr Wild 
have kindly promised their assistance, and will sing several 
songs. 

In order to cover the expenses of the evening I take the 
liberty respectfully to beg the ladies and gentlemen, who intend 
to honour the entertainment with their presence, kindly to 
inscribe their names below. 

The Soiree will commence at 7 o'clock, and the entrance will 
be 15 g. gr. FR. HALLE. 

Cassel : September 18, 1828. 

Then follows a testimonial written and signed by 
Spohr : 



46 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

I take pleasure in attesting that this boy's talent is quite 
extraordinary ; and that, for his age, he executes the most 
difficult modern compositions with inconceivable facility and 
steadiness. Louis SPOHR. 

The signatures of some twenty ladies and gentlemen, 
presumably the chief musical connoisseurs of Cassel, fill the 
rest of the sheet. 

The programme of this concert, the first of the long series 
of programmes that was to stretch over nearly seventy years, 
also lies before me ; its very first words strike one rather 
curiously to-day : * Mit obrifjlceitliclier BeivilUgung.' ' With 
Magisterial Authority, proving the censorship that extended 
even to the programme of a concert in the year 1828. This 
is probably the only concert my father ever gave at which he 
contributed no work by any greater or more classical com- 
poser than Hies and Herz. 

A little anecdote, which we have reason to know my 
father would have inserted in the record of his childish years, 
may here find place. When he was some seven or eight 
years old, a schoolmaster from a neighbouring town, a great 
amateur performer on the piano, came to visit Herr Fliiss, 
the Hagen schoolmaster. The gentleman was not only a 
great virtuoso, but a little inclined to be vain of his accom- 
plishment, and very soon volunteered to play one of 
Beethoven's sonatas to his host ; when he had finished 
and looked round for applause, Herr Fliiss thanked and 
praised him very much, but added : ' You see, we are very 
far advanced in musical matters here at Hagen ; the little 
boys in the street play Beethoven almost if not quite as well 
as that,' and in answer to the incredulous smile, and ' Oh 
indeed ! ' with which the pianist received this statement, he 
continued : ' But I will prove it to you.' He thereupon 
tapped at the window, through which he could see his son 
Cornelius and my father playing marbles before the door, and 
said : ' Come in, Carl,' and as soon as he appeared, bade him 
sit down and play the sonata that lay open on the piano. 



CORNELIUS FLUSS 47 

The little boy looked at his hands, and asked permission to 
go and wash them. ' Never mind your dirty hands, sit down 
and play.' My father obeyed, and the astonished school- 
master had to confess that the performance was better than 
his own. It is not known whether Herr Fliiss allowed him 
to go away with the impression that all the little boys of 
Hagen could leave their marbles to play Beethoven in an 
equally masterly manner. 

The above-mentioned Cornelius Fliiss, my father's senior 
by a single day, was the inseparable comrade of his boyhood, 
and remained to the day of his death, in 1881, the man the 
most after his own heart of all his friends. My father always 
spoke of him as the most gifted man he had ever known, and 
would sometimes regret the want of energy, or perhaps the 
philosophy, that made Cornelius Fliiss content to fill the 
place his father had held before him, as schoolmaster of the 
then small country town of Hagen. It is a matter of deep 
regret that riot one of my father's letters to him has been 
preserved ; during his last illness Cornelius asked for the 
whole collection, which he had always most carefully pre- 
served ; he read them through once more, and then destroyed 
them. And it is curious that my father, who, as a rule, kept 
every letter, however insignificant, addressed to him by his 
family and intimate friends, should have made one exception 
in the case of Cornelius ; only one letter, written in a kind 
of nonsense-verse, having been found among his papers. 

Cornelius had a most chivalrous punctilio on the subject, 
and always refused to listen to any extract, however interest- 
ing, which my grandmother or aunts might offer to read to 
him from my father's or any other person's letters. As to 
the suggestion of reading it himself he would regard it in 
almost the same light as the suggestion to pick a pocket. 

Another of my father's correspondents, almost the only 
one outside his own family, with whom his busy life allowed 
him to keep up a more or less regular interchange of letters, 
Stephen Heller, also destroyed his correspondence shortly 
before his death. His own letters, some of which are given 



48 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

here, indicate very clearly that my father's must have been 
most interesting, and of great value to the musical history of 
the long period 1848 to 1887 that they cover. 

Before leaving the subject of those early years at Hagen 
it is worth noticing that some of my father's most striking 
characteristics were inherited from my grandmother, whose 
loving, dutiful , and obedient son he proved himself until the last 
day of her long and honoured life. Such were his great love of 
order, his invariable sweetness of disposition, and the almost 
passionate love and admiration for the beauties of nature, 
which could make him write from Cape Town in 1895, that 
the view of the Kloof repaid him for the journey there. 

It was Frau Halle's habit, when out walking with her 
children, to point out all the various beauties of wood and 
field through which their path might lead, and during their 
winter rambles among the wooded hills that encircle Hagen, 
she would make them pick up some little frosted twig or 
branch, and, laying it on her muff, would describe its delicate 
traceries and the transformations of the frost, in language so 
simple and beautiful, that it never faded from their minds. 

Her son's love of colour, his strong dislike for black and 
dingy hues, also date from those early days ; he never quite 
ceased to regret, while most rigidly obeying it himself, the 
law that ordains the universal blackness of male attire. He 
would say how much nicer it was when one man wore a brown 
coat, another a green, and another a blue ; that it made the 
streets and all assemblies so much gayer and more brilliant. 

Endless were the stories of his childhood with which he 
would delight his own children's ears during the evening 
hour, the only portion of the day we were allowed to spend 
in his study. I think he told them as graphically and care- 
fully to us as if we had been a most distinguished audience ; 
one or two there were always reserved until after the ' little 
ones ' had gone to bed, for which we often asked, to which 
we listened with somewhat bated breath, and which made the 
going along dark passages on our own way to bed rather an 
uninviting prospect. 



AN APPAKITION 49 

One tale lie told but seldom, and never without the reve- 
rence of tone which he observed towards all well-authenticated 
manifestations of a supernatural character, though no one 
could be called less superstitious than he. The event, al- 
though it had occurred many years before his birth, and he 
had only known of it by hearsay, had made a deep and lasting 
impression upon him. 

At the beginning of this century his maternal grand- 
parents lived at Altena, a small Westphalian town some 
twenty-five miles from Hagen, with their children, the third 
of whom, Christina Brendschedt, then about ten years old, 
was the heroine of the tale. She and her younger sister, 
Caroline, my grandmother, shared the same room, and one 
night Christina roused her sister in great alarm, saying she 
saw someone standing at the foot of her bed, holding back 
the curtain. The two little girls, although Caroline saw no- 
thing unusual in the room, began by hiding their faces under 
the bed-clothes, and when Christina, venturing to look a 
second time, saw the figure still, they began to scream, and 
called their parents, who were in the next room. Their 
father first contented himself by calling back to them that 
Christina had been dreaming, and that the figure would go 
away as soon as she was wide awake, but the child cried 
again that the figure looked ' so anxious,' and was pointing 
to the window. This happened two or three times, until 
their father said he would come and see for himself, upon 
which the child said to her little sister, ' Now he drops the 
curtain.' As soon as Herr Brendschedt entered the room he 
paw to his amazement that a great gap was in the wall, and 
he had but the time to save the children and give the alarm 
before the wall gave way. A new well had been recently 
dug too close to the house, and had weakened the foundations. 
My great aunt Christina lived to a good old age, and when- 
ever she spoke of this event, which was but seldom, she 
would say that she had forgotten the faces of all whom she 
had known at that time of her life, but that if she could 
draw, she would be able to reproduce the countenance of 

E 



50 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

her ' Guardian Angel,' as she called the vision of that 
night. 

Many years afterwards, as will be seen in one of my 
father's letters, he took his mother and aunt once again to 
Altena, and on his return to England he told us how their 
first visit had been to the old house, now inhabited by 
strangers, and how they had stood a long while in the garden 
looking up at the wall, restored and repaired, but plainly show- 
ing the marks of the fissure that had so nearly proved fatal. 

At the close of the Napoleonic wars a detachment of 
Prussian troops was riding through Altena amid the joyous 
acclamations of the people, and a young officer, chancing to 
look up, caught sight of Christina Brendschedt at a window 
with her sisters, watching the passage of the troops. The 
young soldier told a comrade the next day that he had seen 
the girl he meant to make his wife, if he could find her out 
and win her. He did both ; and soon afterwards Christina 
Brendschedt married Gustav Harkort, who rose to be one 
of the most trusted councillors of the King of Saxony, and 
whose statue now stands in one of the public squares of 
Leipzig, erected after his death by his grateful fellow- 
citizens. 

When we read or hear of the doings of those by no means 
remote ancestors, the conviction is forced upon us that there 
must have been a great vitality and vigour, a great power of 
enjoyment and of endurance in the youths and maidens of 
the first twenty years of the nineteenth century. The girls 
of the Brendschedt family were very fond of dancing, and it 
was by no means an unusual or remarkable occurrence for 
them to perform a day's journey on foot to attend a ball in a 
neighbouring town, to dance the whole night through, and 
return next day in the same manner. It must have been a 
merry company that would start off from Altena in the early 
morning, their destination Cologne, a ten hours' march, their 
path lying across the hills and valleys of the rich and pleasant 
rothe-erde of Westphalia, their escort a stout serving-man 
when their fathers or brothers were not with them, but in the 



HARDY ANCESTORS 51 

latter case the journeys would be made less fatiguing for one 
or two, who could ride on pillions behind the gentlemen. 
Dress was simpler then, and for a ball, a knot of ribbons, and a 
few fresh flowers, were considered sufficient adornment of the 
universal low-necked white muslin gown. 

Those low-necked gowns seem to have been worn in 
winter as in summer, and it is with something like a shiver 
that one hears of skating parties, where the young ladies dis- 
ported themselves for hours on the ice with no thicker mantle 
over their low, short-sleeved dresses than a gauze scarf, worn 
more for ' coquetterie ' than warmth, as my great-aunt Altgelt 
candidly admitted in talking of the pleasant gatherings of her 
youth. Top-coats seem to have been unknown, not only to 
the young men, but also to the elders of those hardy days. 

In the evening, the illumination in my great-grandfather's 
house, when the family were alone, consisted, if tradition 
speaks truly, of one candle placed on the table, round which 
the whole family were gathered, and that candle, made of 
tallow, and often requiring to be snuffed, stood close to Herr 
Brendschedt's elbow, where he sat at the head of the table 
reading his book or the gazette. By this dim and distant 
light his daughters yet managed to do the finest imaginable 
needlework, those delicate white embroideries, of which the 
few specimens that remain are now so highly prized. 

On one occasion, when she was quite a young girl, my 
grandmother, the fame of whose sweet singing had spread 
beyond her native town, was invited to take part in a 
concert at Iserlohu, at some distance from Altena. At that 
time there existed no carriage-road nor even a cart-track 
between the two towns, so one of the members of the com- 
mittee charged with the arrangements for the concert was 
deputed to ride to Altena, and bring her back on a pillion 
behind him. by the rough bridle-paths, or, where they failed, 
across country, 'thorough bush, thorough briar,' and then 
convey her home again on the day after the concert in the 
same way. M. H. 



E 2 



52 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 



CHAPTER II 

1838-1848 

Stephen Heller His gifts as an iruproviser Musical evenings at the 
Hue d'Amsterdam Ileinrich Heine : his attitude towards music ; a 
rupture and a reconciliation Richard Wagner in 1839: the fate of 
' Christopli Colomb : ' subsequent meetings at Heidelberg and 
Bayreuth How I heard Paganini My friendship with Berlioz : his 
gifts and limitations Ilabeneck's historic pinch of snuff Berlioz as 
a conductor Armand Berlin's generosity My first public concert in 
Paris Marriage in 1841: the significance of the number 11 
Tour in Germany in 1841' Acquaintance with Mendelssohn : his 
marvellous memory Conducting without score Concert at Darm- 
stadt A noisy apartment on the Rue Blanche Delsarte's singing 
A galaxy of talent Ingres and his love of music Ary Schefler 
My first visit to England in 1843 : Ernst and Sivori Ernst's solo on 
the 15s. violin Musical taste in London in 1843 Visit to Count 
d'Orsay Return to Paris : I am invited to play at the Conservatoire 
concerts Urhan's well-merited rebuke Beethoven Festival at 
Bonn Anecdotes of Liszt My visit to the Chateau d'Eu : a grand 
piano on a diligence My chamber concerts in Paris Disastrous 
results of the Revolution of 1848 My narrow escape Offer of a 
diplomatic appointment from Lamartine Departure from Paris : a 
painful leave-taking Reminiscences of Taglioni, Mile. Louise Berlin, 
Rossini, Donizetti, Alexander Ilumboldt. 

IN the winter of 1838-9 Stephen Heller arrived in 
Paris, which makes an epoch in my life. A friend- 
ship sprang up between us almost at once, which 
endured uninterruptedly to the end of his days in 
1888, and had a most decided influence upon my 
intellectual development. Only those who have 
known him as intimately as I have (and I doubt if 
there are any) can appreciate the high quality of his 



STEPHEN HELLER Oo 

gifts, tlie superiority of his intelligence, and the sound- 
ness of his judgment in all matters musical, artistic, 
and literary. He brought few of his compositions 
with him, and, in fact, nearly all his works date from 
Paris, but these few revealed the real musician, the 
original thinker, and had already attracted Schu- 
mann's attention, with whom Heller corresponded 
frequently. I was happy to meet a man whose whole 
soul was wrapped up in music as my own was and 
the long hours we spent together at the piano playing 
duets form some of my most cherished recollections. 
It was during these seances in my humble lodgings in 
the Eue Notre Dame de Lorette that we made acquaint- 
ance with and revelled in the beauties of Schubert's 
great C major symphony, then recently discovered 
and published as a pianoforte duet. It was a revela- 
tion to us, and we were never tired of playing it 
through. But the same was the case with all the 

D 

great compositions for orchestra, or orchestra with 
chorus, arranged in a similar form. How often we 
must have played Beethoven's symphonies it is im- 
possible to tell, and how we enjoyed them ! All the 
more as the opportunities of hearing them performed 
by the orchestra were then most rare, the Concerts 
du Conservatoire only bringing forward two or three 
during a season, so that certain of them, for instance, 
Nos. 4, 7, and 9, were heard perhaps once in three or 
four years. In 1839 neither Heller nor I had ever 
heard the Choral Symphony performed, and were 
therefore all the more eager to study it closely. 
Such a performance was approached with a certain 



54 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

solemnity. When our means slender at that time 
permitted, a bottle of champagne was sent for and 
drunk during the performance as on a festive 
occasion. But here, for once, we felt the inadequacy 
of the piano ; much as we admired the three first 
movements, we could not understand the finale, hard 
as we tried ; it left on us a disagreeable impression, 
somewhat akin to sea-sickness, in spite of which we 
renewed again and again our endeavour to fathom it, 
but with no better result. 

Heller was a remarkable pianist, but shrank from 
playing in public, and perhaps he had not the gift to 
impress a large audience. There was a singular 
modesty and reticence in his playing of his own 
works, an indication only of expression and nuance, 
as if he felt shy of telling all the secrets of his heart. 
This shyness, however, left him entirely when he was 
improvising, a gift in which he excelled all great 
musicians that I have known. The change that came 
over him and his execution in such moments, or 
hours, was marvellous. As a rule he was not a very 
great master of technique, but when improvising all 
difficulties seemed to vanish, and it is certain that if 
he had been able to place before him in print what he 
accomplished in these moments of inspiration he 
would have stared, and it would have taken him 
weeks of hard study to play what had seemed so 
easy. Whether he improvised quite freely, or on 
subjects self-chosen or given to him, he was equally 
fascinating, dominating his listeners and pouring out 
a wealth of ideas of which his published compositions 



HELLER'S IMPROVISATIONS 55 

give no idea. He had an extraordinary faculty of 
combining the most dissimilar themes, and proved it 
once the only time, I believe, he ever improvised in 
public where the opening of ' Don Giovanni,' ' Notte 
e giorno faticar,' Pedrillo's ' Viva Bacco, Bacco viva,' 
from ' II Seraglio,' and his own ' Wanderstunden,' were 
given to him, and after the one and the other had 
been treated most ingeniously for some time, they 
were all three, or the semblance of them, heard at 
the same time, a feat so difficult of execution that it 
would have required long practice on the part of any 
pianist to master it, and here it was accomplished 
spontaneously. The occasion was a visit he paid to 
England in 1862, of which I may speak here, as it is 
connected with his talent for improvisation. I had 
heard from him that he was what is commonly called 
'hard up,' and in order to replenish his exhausted 
exchequer had obtained for him several engagements 
in England and induced him. to give a concert in 
Manchester. Everywhere we played duets for two 
pianos, Heller being too nervous to appear alone ; 
but for the Manchester concert, which I was most 
anxious should have a good result, I had insisted on 
his including in the programme an ' Improvisation on 
subjects given by the audience.' After a hard fight 
he had submitted, and my expectations of a crowded 
house were fully realised. I little knew that a cata- 
strophe was impending, from which fortunately I was 
able to save Heller. On the day previous to the 
concert a charming young lady, who with her sister 
took lessons from me, asked me, ' Is it really true 



56 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

that Heller is going to improvise ? ' ' Yes, it is part 
of the programme,' was my answer. ' Oh, how 
droll ! and may any one give a subject ? ' ' Certainly, 
anybody that can think of one.' ' So, if I said 
sponge, would that do ? ' I cannot imagine what the 
consequence would have been, but the improvisation 
would have been ' sponged ' out. 

I return to my narrative of very happy times, 
made principally so by my friendship with Heller and 
by the interest with which I and a few other intimate 
musical friends watched and enjoyed his productions. 
By the time Heller came to Paris I had already made 
a good many friends and could be of some use to him by 
introducing him to people he wished to know. In my 
turn I owe him some most interesting acquaintances. 
My circumstances were gradually improving, thanks 
to the number of my pupils increasing constantly, so 
that I was able to move into better quarters, in the 
Eue d' Amsterdam, where I first began to have a few 
musical evenings at home, reunions of friends, such 
as Berlioz, Heller, Ernst, Batta (the accomplished and 
refined violoncellist), Artot, known as ' le bel Artot,' 
Delsarte, the marvellous tenor without a voice, and 
several others. On one evening Artot proposed that 
we should play the Kreutzer Sonata, and we did so, 
Now Artot, most elegant violinist and most successful 
performer though he was, was entirely out of his ele- 
ment in such music, which was so painfully evident 
that when he had left us rather early, Ernst sprang 
up and said, ' Come, Halle, let us play the Kreutzer ! ' 
He played it magnificently, and I have never better 



IIEINR1CH HEIXE 57 

understood than on that evening how much depends 
upon the power of interpretation ; how the want of it 
can deprive the finest work of its charm and interest. 
From the Eue d'Amsterdam I moved to the Hue 
Lafitte, where I had charming, quiet rooms with a view 
upon some beautiful gardens, and here it was that 
Heller first brought Heinrich Heine to me. They knew 
each other from being both contributors to the ' Augs- 
burger Allgemeine Zeitung,' Germany's most im- 
portant paper then. Heine, then only about forty-two 
years of age, of handsome and winning appearance, 
strong and healthy, with no indication of the suffer- 
ings that were to be his fate later on, was, of course, 
a most welcome guest. He came often, always with 
Heller in fact, I cannot remember a single occasion 
on which our trio developed into a quartet, and many 
were our discussions on music, in which he took great 
interest perhaps without really understanding, as 
some of his remarks seemed to show. I had brought 

o 

with me, after an excursion to Germany, the book of 
songs by Mendelssohn, in which the first is the 
setting of Heine's ' Auf Flugeln des Gesanges.' I 
spoke of it with enthusiasm to Heine, who came the 
same evening with Heller to the Eue Lafitte, most 
eager to hear this version of his poem. I had a feeble, 
but not altogether disagreeable tenor voice, and sang 
the ' Lied ' to him with all the expression I was capable 
of, and certainly correctly as regards the music. Great 
was my astonishment, and Heller's also, when at the 
conclusion he said in a disappointed tone, ' There is 
no melody in it.' As there is nothing but melody in 



58 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

it, we long puzzled over the riddle What sort of 
melody may satisfy a poet when he hears his own words 
sung ? An insoluble one, I am afraid. 

Irresistibly charming was Heine when, the con- 
versation flagging, which often happens when three 
smokers sit together, he would, after a more or less 
long silence, suddenly recite one of his shorter poems, 
clothing it with undreamt-of beauty by his manner of 
delivery. We sat in mute wonder, and it seemed 
quite natural that he should add musingly in a half 
unconscious tone : ' Beautiful ! ' The oddity of the 
remark, coming from himself, never once struck us : 
it was so perfectly true. Our relations remained for 
years the most friendly ; then suddenly and unex- 
pectedly he showed the cloven hoof. I had already 
begun to give concerts and had been treated most 
kindly by him, when one day, after one of them 
w r hich he had attended, I met him on the Boulevard, 
went up to him to shake hands, and was cut dead. 
There was no mistake, and often as we met after that 
he took no notice of me. At that time he wrote to the 
' Augsburger Zeitung' that I was a small prophet whom 
the whale would have spat out promptly if it had 
swallowed him. I had reason to believe that a mistake 
made in the tickets sent him for my concert was the 
source of his anger, and was extremely sorry for it ; 
but as he ought to have kndwn that the mistake could 
not have originated with me, I was too proud to seek 
an explanation. So we passed each other for many 
months without so much as a look, until one day, 
meeting on the same Boulevard, he came up to me, 



BICIIARD WAGNER 59 

shook my hand warmly in the old friendly manner, 
and after a few commonplace questions, asked : 'Were 
you at Doehler's concert yesterday ? ' and hearing that 
I had not been there, he added a brule-pourpoint, ' I do 
not like him. No, no ; to hear somebody who plays 
really well, one must come to you ! ' * Hallo ! ' I said, 
4 and what about the whale ? ' Upon which he laughed 
most heartily, shook my hand again, and departed 
without further explanation. After that we were the 
same old friends again. 

Towards the end of the year 1839 Heller brought 
one evening to my rooms a young musician, my senior 
only by six years, whose acquaintance he had made 
through Maurice Schlesinger, and who, as he told me 
in a side whisper, stood in great need of kindness and 
assistance. The name of this young musician was 
Eichard Wagner, a name which at that time meant 
nothing to us, as we were in absolute ignorance of the 

o ^ * ' 

talents he might or might not be endowed with. We 
knew that he was in great straits, had unsuccessfully 
applied for an appointment as chorus singer in a small 
theatre, and for his living made all kinds of arrange- 
ments for Schlesinger, even to an arrangement of 
Halevy's ' La Heine de Chypre ' for two flutes, to which 
Heller suggested the addition of a big drum. Wagner 
himself used to laugh at this occupation, the result of 
dire necessity ; and we, never having seen or heard 
a note of his own compositions, took it almost for 
granted that he was not fit for much more. He was 
no pianist or he might have given us some idea of his 
own work. He rarely spoke of his aspirations, but 



60 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

when lie did so, it was usually in a strain which made 
us wonder if, as the phrase goes, he was ' all there.' 
We liked him as a most frank, amiable, and lively 
companion, modest and full of enthusiasm for all that 
is beautiful in art. And he felt evidently at home 
with us. He came often to the Rue Lafitte. Heller 
improvised, I played, or we played duets, and I 
remember that one evening when I had played to 
them Schumann's ' Carneval,' then quite new, we three 
indited a letter of thanks to the composer, which 
letter I saw more than forty years later in the hands 
of his widow. In 1870, when I met him at Bayreuth, 
his first words alluded to the pleasant evenings with 
Heller at my rooms in Paris. What an immense 
change had taken place ! What a difference there 
was between the man of 1839 and the man of 1876 ! 

Schlesinger, the proprietor of the ' Gazette 
Musicale,' the most important musical paper in 
France, gave to the subscribers annually a few con- 
certs with a view to increasing their number, and in 
the spring of 1840 he included in the programme an 
overture by his then proiwc, Richard Wagner. The 
overture was called ' Christ oph Colomb,' and as it was 
the first time we were to hear a specimen of our friend's 
works, we were naturally very curious, and attended 
the concert Avith great expectations. The result was 
disastrous. Whether it was that the performance, 
for want of rehearsals, was most imperfect, or that 
the style was what we might now call ultra-Wagnerian, 
or for both these reasons joined together, the whole 
overture struck us as the work of a madman, and we 



THE FATE OF ' CRISTOPII COLOMB ' 61 

had no opportunity to reconsider our judgment, as 
' Christoph Colomb ' has never again seen the light. 
It was not many months after this fiasco that we heard 
with amazement of the great success his opera, 
4 Eienzi,' had achieved in Dresden, and still greater 
was our astonishment when the perusal of the score 
showed us that the success was perfectly justified. 
Here was a case of unrecognised merit, if ever there 
was one or rather a proof of the difficulties that 
confront the musician who is a composer. A painter 
shows his picture and the world judges it. But the 
composer of an opera may carry the score round with 
him for years and nobody will be the wiser for it. In 
after years I met Wagner seldom, and each time found 
it more difficult to recognise in him the genial, modest 
young companion I had known so well. His manner 
of speech had become bombastic, often not to be 
' understanded of the people.' In 1862 we met by 
accident in the ruins of the old castle of Heidelberg. 
In the previous winter I had given concert perform- 
ances of Gluck's ' Iphigenia in Tauris,' in Manchester, 
London, and other towns with remarkable success. 
This apparently had interested Wagner greatly, and 
rather surprised him. He spoke of it at length, and 
concluded by saying : ' The English are an extra- 
ordinary people und dennoch weiss ich nicht ob es je 
lei ilmen zu dem Seufzer kommt, ohm den der Blumen- 
duft der Kunst nicht in den Aether steigt.' I have 
quoted this wonderful sentence in the original Ger- 
man, but it may be roughly translated : ' Still, I do 
not know if ever they arrive at the sigh, without 



62 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

which the aroma of the art does not ascend into 
space.' Dr. E. Becker, for so many years librarian 
to H.M. Queen Victoria, was with me on that occasion, 
and immediately wrote down the sentence in his 
pocket-book. We never understood it, but felt it was 
worth preserving. 

At Bayreuth, in 187G, during one of the welcome 
entr'actes, we met in the open air, he being sur- 
rounded by a crowd of admirers. It was then that 
he alluded to the pleasant evenings in Paris, ex- 
pressed how gratified he was that I, too, had 
come all the way from England to hear his works, 
and ended by saying emphatically, 'You see, my 
dear Halle, I shall make Bayreuth the centre of civi- 
lisation.' fc A noble aim, my dear master,' was my 
answer. We never met again. 

To return to 1838, a year so rich to me in remi- 
niscences. I must say a few words about a man, in 
his way the most remarkable of his time, Paganini. 
He was one of the wonders of the world to me, so 
much had I read and heard about him, and I deeply 
deplored that he had given up public playing, and 
so I was told even chose his lodgings so that the 
sound of his violin could not be heard outside. The 
striking, awe-inspiring, ghost-like figure of Paganini 
was to be seen nearly every afternoon in the music 
shop of Bernard Latte, Passage de 1'Opera, where he 
sat for an hour, enveloped in a long cloak, taking 
notice of nobody, and hardly ever raising his piercing 
black eyes. He was one of the sights of Paris, and 
I had often gone to stare at him with wonder until a 



PAG AX INI 63 

friend introduced me to him, and he invited me to visit 
him, an invitation I accepted most eagerly. I went 
often, but it would be difficult to relate a single con- 
versation we had together. He sat there, taciturn, 
rigid, hardly ever moving a muscle of his face, and I 
sat spellbound, a shudder running through me when- 
ever his uncanny eyes fell upon me. He made me 
play to him often, mostly by pointing with his bony 
hand to the piano without speaking, and I could only 
guess from his repeating the ceremony that he did 
not dislike it, for never a word of encouragement fell 
from his lips. How I longed to hear him play it is 
impossible to describe, perhaps even to imagine. 
From my earliest childhood I had heard of Paganini 
and his art as of something supernatural, and there I 
actually sat opposite to the man himself, but only look- 
ing at the hands that had created such wonders. On 
one never-to-be-forgotten occasion, after I had played 
and we had enjoyed a long silence, Paganini rose and 
approached his violin-case. What then passed in me 
can hardly be imagined ; I was all in a tremble, and 
my heart thumped as if it would burst my chest ; in 
fact, no young swain going to the first rendezvous 
with his beloved could possibly feel more violent 
emotions. Paganini opened the case, took the violin 
out, and began to tune it carefully with his fingers 
without using the bow ; my agitation became almost 
intolerable. When he was satisfied, and I said to 
myself, with a lump in my throat, ' Now, now, he'll 
take the bow ! ' he carefully put the violin back and 
shut the case. And that is how I heard Paganini. 



64 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

The most important friendship I formed at that 
time (or it may have been at the end of 1837) was 
that with Hector Berlioz ' le vaillant Hector,' as 
he was often called whose powerful dominating 
personality I was glad to recognise. How I made 
his acquaintance is now a mystery to me it seems 
as if I had always known him I also wonder 
often how it was he showed such interest in an 
artist of so little importance as I then was ; he was 
so kind to me, and, in fact, became my friend. Per- 
haps it was because we could both speak with the 
same enthusiasm of Beethoven, Gluck, Weber, even 
Spontini, and, perhaps, not less because he felt that 
I had a genuine admiration for his own works. 
There never lived a musician who adored his art 
more than did Berlioz ; he was, indeed, ' enthusiasm 
personified.' To hear him speak of, or rave about, 
a real chef tfceuvre, such as ' Armida,' ' Iphigenia,' 
or the C Minor Symphony, the pitch of his voice 
rising higher and higher as he talked, was worth 
any performance of the same. And what a pic- 
ture he was at the head of his orchestra, with his 
eagle face, his bushy hair, his air of command, and 
glowing with enthusiasm. He was the most perfect 
conductor that I ever set eyes upon, one who held 
absolute sway over his troops, and played upon them 
as a pianist upon the keyboard. But discussion 
about his genius and his works is superfluous at the 
present time ; even his life is so thoroughly known 
that I need only relate of him what has come under 
my personal knowledge. 



BERLIOZ'S LIMITATIONS 65 

He also came often to my humble lodgings, and 
I must say that his visits to me were more frequent 
than mine to him ; for even at that time Madame 
Berlioz, the once charming and poetic Ophelia, had 
become somewhat repellent, and it was impossible to 
imagine her acting or anybody falling in love with 
her. To her honour it must, however, be said that 
she upheld Berlioz in his hardest struggles, always 
ready to endure the greatest privations when it was 
a question for him to save money enough for the 
organisation of a concert on a large scale, concerts 
which seldom left any profit. I had the pleasure of 
introducing him to Stephen Heller, who soon won his 
esteem, and remained on friendly terms with him 
until his death. Berlioz was no executant upon any 
instrument (for being able to strum a few chords on 
the guitar does not count), and he was painfully 
aware how much this was a hindrance to him, and to 
his knowledge of musical literature, which, indeed, 
was limited. I was often astonished to find that 
works, familiar to every pianist, were unknown to 
him ; not merely works written for the piano, such 
as Beethoven's sonatas, of which he knew but few, 
but also orchestral works, oratorios, &c., known to 
the pianist through arrangements, but of which he 
had not chanced to see a score. Perhaps many un- 
doubted crudities in his works would have been 
eliminated had he been able to hear them before 
committing them to paper, for I had several proofs 
that the eye alone was not sufficient to give him a 
clear idea of the effect of his musical combinations. 

P 



66 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Thus at the time when he scored Weber's ' Invitation 
h la Yalse ' for the orchestra, he made me play it to 
him, and when I had come to the point where, after 
the digression into C major, the theme is resumed in 
the original key, D flat, he interrupted me with the 
words, 'Apres tout, cela va,' confessing that from 
the perusal of the piece he had thought the modula- 
tion too harsh, and almost impossible. On another 
occasion, much later, he arrived at my house and 
eagerly told me he had found a new cadence to end 
a movement with. ' The last chord,' he said, ' is the 
chord of G major, and I precede it by the one in B 
minor.' When I told him there were hundreds of 
examples of such an ending, he would not believe me, 
and was greatly astonished when we searched for and 
found them. 

In some of the most interesting moments of 
Berlioz's musical career in Paris I had the privilege 
of being with him. Thus on December 5, 1837, 1 
went with him to the Hotel des Invalides to witness 
the first performance of his ' Kequiem,' and was, 
therefore, an eye-witness of what took place on that 
occasion. Habeneck, after Berlioz the most accom- 
plished chef d'orchestre in Paris, conducted by rights, 
and Berlioz sat in a chair near him. Habeneck, who 
conducted not only the Grand Opera but also the 
* Concerts du Conservatoire,' had the habit of now and 
then putting his conducting stick down and listenicg 
complacently to the performance of his orchestra. 
It was, therefore, perhaps force of habit that made 
him discard the baton at the commencement of the 



HABENECK'S PINCH OF SNUFF 67 

' Tuba mirum,' this time not to listen, but leisurely 
to take a pinch of snuff! To my amazement I sud- 
denly saw Berlioz standing in Habeneck's place and 
wielding the baton to the end of the movement. The 
moment had been a most critical one, four groups of 
brass instruments, stationed at the four corners of 
the large orchestra, which with the chorus was placed 
under the dome in the centre of the building, having 
to enter successively, and, without Berlioz's determi- 
nation, disaster must have ensued, thanks to the un- 
fortunate pinch of snuff. Habeneck, after the per- 
formance, thanked Berlioz profusely for his timely 
aid, and admitted that his own thoughtlessness might 
have caused a break-down, but Berlioz remained 
persuaded that there had been no thoughtlessness, 
and that the break-down was intended. I could not 
believe this, for the simple reason that when such a 
thing occurs it is always the conductor on whose 
shoulders the blame of the break-down is laid, and 
most deservedly so ; it is, therefore, most unlikely 
that he should himself try to provoke one. The 
effect of the ' Kequiem,' and especially of the ' Tuba 
mirum,' was so overpowering that I have never dared 
to produce it in England, where it has been my joy 
to conduct so many of Berlioz's works ; the placing of 
four orchestras at the corners of the principal one is 
impossible in our concert rooms, and I consider it in- 
dispensable for the due effect of .the movement and 
the carrying out of the composer's intention. 

Of his perfect command over the orchestra, 
Berlioz gave an extraordinary proof on the occasion 

V '2 



68 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

of a grand concert given by him a few years later in 
the ' Cirque Franconi.' There had been a very long 
rehearsal in the morning, at which I was present, as I 
had to play Beethoven's Gr major concerto, then very 
seldom performed. After some hours' hard work 
Berlioz dismissed the orchestra ; I remained with 
him, and hardly had the last member of the band 
vanished when Berlioz struck his forehead, exclaim- 
ing : ' I have forgotten the overture ! ' He stood 
speechless for a few minutes, then said with deter- 
mination : l It shall go nevertheless.' Now this over- 
ture was the one to ' Le Carneval Eomain,' to be 
performed that evening for the first time, and never 
rehearsed. Musicians who know the work, with its 
complicated rhythm and all its intricacies, will easily 
understand how bold the venture was, and will 
wonder that it could be successful. But to see 
Berlioz during that performance was a sight never to 
be forgotten. He watched over every single member 
of the huge band ; his beat was so decisive, his indi- 
cation of all the nuances so clear and so unmis- 
takable, that the overture went smoothly, and no 
uninitiated person could guess at the absence of a 
rehearsal. This absolute command over the orchestra 
I had already admired during the preparations for the 
first production of his 'Eomeo and Juliet ' in 1839, 
which took a long time, but resulted in a magnificent 
performance, stirring the public to enthusiasm. His 
own public I mean ; totally distinct from the general 
one, which did not appreciate or understand his 
music. Berlioz had at all times a not inconsiderable 



69 

number of devoted followers, who made up in zeal 
and admiration for their want of numbers, and to 
whom he was warmly and somewhat gratefully 
attached. The indifference shown by the crowd, and 
even by many musicians, towards his works he felt 
deeply, although he tried to make light of it, and 
any real success, however temporary, was eagerly 
welcomed, and brightened up his life for a while. 
So the well-known Paganini incident of the previous 
year had strengthened his courage for a long time, 
and from a morose made him a most cheerful com- 
panion. But thereby hangs a tale which, as all the 
actors in it are gone to their rest, may be divulged 
without inconvenience. Armand Bertin, the wealthy 
and distinguished proprietor of the ' Journal des 
Debats,' had a high regard for Berlioz and knew of 
all his struggles, which he, Bertin, was anxious to 
lighten. He resolved therefore to make him a 
present of 20,000 fr., and in order to enhance the 
moral effect of this gift he persuaded Paganini to 
appear as the donor of the money. How well Bertin 
had judged was proved immediately; what would 
have been a simple gracieusete from a rich and 
powerful editor towards one of his staff became a 
significant tribute from one genius to another, and 
had a colossal retentissement. The secret was well 
kept and never divulged to Berlioz. It was known, 
I believe, to but two of Bertin's friends besides my- 
self, one of whom is Mottez, the celebrated painter ; 
I learned it about seven years later when I had 
become an intimate friend of the house, and Madame 



70 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Armand Bertin had been for years one of my best 
pupils. 

It was in the year 1840 that I overcame my 
scruples, and, emerging from my long retirement, 
gave my first public concert in the ' Salle Erard.' 
Alard and Franchomme assisted me, and the pro- 
gramme opened with Beethoven's trio in B flat. I 
had hardly played a few bars when I noticed that 
the pedals had been unhinged and would not act. 
There was no help for it, and I had to play to the 
end of the trio without them, after which a few 
minutes sufficed to set matters right. The con- 
sequence of this untoward accident was that all the 
critics praised me for my judicious and sparing use 
of the loud pedal, and this reputation clung to me in 
Paris ever afterwards, although undeservedly so. I 
was much flattered to see Liszt, Chopin, and Meyer- 
beer amongst the audience, and felt deeply grateful 
to them for thus encouraging a young artist on his 
debut. The concert was successful, and from that 
moment my public appearances multiplied, my name 
became known, and the number of my pupils in- 
creased constantly, so that in 1841 I felt justified 
in marrying, and once more the number 11 became 
of significance in my life ; for I was twice 11 years 
old, and married on the llth of the llth month of 
the year. My wife, nee Desiree Smith de Eilieu, 
was born at New Orleans, and had been residing 
for some years in Paris with her mother, a widow. 
Madame Smith had a negro servant, formerly one of 
her slaves, who had followed her to Prance, and was 



ACQUAINTANCE WITH MENDELSSOHN 71 

much attached to her. It was customary in Paris to 
give a party, a ball generally, to the friends of the 
bride and bridegroom on the eve of the wedding, a 
custom which we followed. Madame Smith's con- 
fidential servant had been instructed to engage a 
number of day-waiters for the occasion, and great 
was my consternation when at the proper moment 
the ices were brought in by ten waiters all grinning 
niggers ! 

In the summer of 1842 I made a short concert 
tour through Germany, playing at Wiesbaden, 
Mayence, Frankfort, Darmstadt, and other towns. 
At Frankfort I had the happiness to meet Men- 
delssohn, and to spend a few weeks closely associated 
with him and rich in musical delight. At the con 
cert I gave, he and Hiller played with me Bach's 
triple concerto in D minor, and at Hiller's house, 
where we usually met, I became acquainted with 
the Scotch symphony, then unpublished, of which he 
had just finished the admirable arrangement as a 
pianoforte duet, which we played over and over 
again from the manuscript. There I heard also for 
the first time his ' Variations Serieuses,' and some of 
the then unpublished ' Lieder ohne Worte,' amongst 
them the now so popular ' Friihlingslied.' Men- 
delssohn's playing was not exactly that of a ' virtuoso,' 
not to be compared with that of Liszt or Thalberg 
(he himself called it ' en gros spielen '), but it was 
remarkably perfect, and one felt the great musician, 
the great composer, in every bar he played. He was 
also a great organist, and I had the privilege of 



72 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

hearing him improvise, and also play two of his fine 
organ sonatas. The greatest treat, however, was to 
sit with him at the piano and listen to innumerable 
fragments from half-forgotten beautiful works by 
Cherubini, Gluck, Bach, Palestrina, Marcello, ' tutti 
quanti.' It was only enough to mention one of them, 
whether it was a Gloria from one of Cherubini's 
Masses or a psalm by Marcello, to hear it played to 
perfection, until I came to the conclusion that he 
knew every bar of music ever written, and, what was 
more, could reproduce it immediately. One morning 
Hiller and I were playing together one of Bach's 
organ pieces on the piano, one of no particular 
interest, but which we wished to know better. When 
we were in the middle of it, a part hardly to be dis- 
tinguished from many other similar ones, the door 
opened, Mendelssohn entered, and, without inter- 
rupting us, rose on tip-toes, and with his up-lifted 
finger pointed significantly at the next bar which 
was coming and contained an unexpected and strik- 
ing modulation. So from hearing through the door 
a bar or two of a for Bach somewhat common- 
place piece, he not only recognised it at once, but 
knew the exact place we had arrived at, and what 
was to follow in the next bar, a most surprising proof 
of intimate knowledge. His memory was indeed pro- 
digious. It is well known that when he revived 
Bach's ' Passion Music,' and conducted the first per- 
formance of that immortal work after it had been 
dormant for about a century, he found, stepping to 
the conductor's desk, that a score similar in binding 



CONDUCTING WITHOUT SCOEE 73 

and. thickness, but of another work, had been brought 
by mistake. He conducted this amazingly com- 
plicated work by heart, turning leaf after leaf of the 
book he had before him, in order not to create any 
feeling of uneasiness on the part of the executants. 

Mendelssohn, and certainly Berlioz, would have 
been amazed if they had witnessed the modern craze 
for conducting without the score ; they never did so, 
even with their own works, which certainly they must 
have known better than anybody else. There can be 
no possible advantage in dispensing with the score, a 
glance at which shows to the conductor the whole 
instrumentation, and enables him to watch over every 
detail of the execution, and over the entries of the 
most secondary instruments. No conductor could 
write by heart twenty pages of the full score of a 
symphony, or other work, exactly with the instru- 
mentation of the composer (perhaps the composer 
himself could not do it) ; he must therefore remain 
ignorant whilst conducting, of what the minor instru- 
ments, say the second clarinet, second bassoon, second 
flute, and many others, have to do a serious dis- 
advantage. The public who go into ecstasies over 
* conducting by heart ' do not know how very easy 
it is, how much easier, for instance, than playing a 
concerto or a sonata by heart, at which nobody 
wonders. Without the score the conductor has only 
to be acquainted with the general outline of the com- 
position and its salient features ; then, the better the 
band the easier the task of its chief. 

But to return to Frankfort. The few weeks spent 



74 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

there in the intimacy of Mendelssohn and Hiller are 
amongst the most precious, the most interesting, I 
have ever lived, and are engraved in my memory 
with a point of gold. I never met Mendelssohn again. 
On a renewed visit to Frankfort in the autumn of 
1843 I received an invitation to play at Darmstadt 
before the Grand Duke of Hesse, and I was delighted 
to see my dear old master, Einck, again on the same 
occasion. Coming to the castle on the appointed 
evening I was ushered into the still untenanted music- 
room, where after a time I was joined by a gentle- 
man in simple evening dress who entertained me 
most politely, telling me that the Grand Ducal party, 
which included the Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar, 
would soon appear. I took my informant for one of 
the gentlemen of the Court, and as he was so very 
amiable I asked him to be kind enough to point out 
to me the different distinguished personages, who, I 
said, would probably be familiar to him by sight, but 
were not so to me. He promised most willingly to 
do so, and it gave me rather a start when I found 
half-an-hour later that my kind cicerone was the 
celebrated Prince Alexander of Hesse. The party 
was a small one, and listened to my performance 
with a willing ear. What has impressed the evening 
upon my memory is the circumstance that while I 
was playing, a despatch was brought in announcing 
the birth of a son to the Crown Princess of Eussia (a 
Princess of Hesse Darmstadt), which caused such 
joy that the two Grand Dukes not only embraced, 
but in spite of their bulky persons, which hardly 



A NOISY APARTMENT 75 

permitted their short arms to reach each other, 
waltzed together through the long and almost empty 
room. It was a touching but curious spectacle. After 
half an hour's interruption I was allowed to continue 
my performance. The next day I had the honour of 
being received by Prince Alexander at his own villa, 
and could explain my bevue of the previous evening. 
During the few months my wife and I spent in 
Germany, having before our departure given notice 
to quit the rooms in the Eue de 1' Arcade, in Paris, 
with which we were dissatisfied, a cousin of my wife's, 
the Comtesse de Eochefort, proposed we should take 
the rooms which she occupied in the Eue Blanche, 
as she was leaving for the south of France. I had 
been often at her evening parties, knew the rooms 
perfectly, which were most convenient, and we struck 
the bargain at once. Great was my consternation 
when, 011 arriving in September at these much 
coveted rooms, I found that the building opposite 
was the Gymnase Musical Militaire, from which 
nearly all the regimental bands were recruited, and 
in which hundreds of young men practised the whole 
day long with open windows, weather permitting, all 
the wind instruments ever invented, all at the same 
time, every man in his own key, and doing his own 
exercises. No more infernal noise can be imagined 
and I was in despair, but I had signed a short lease 
and we were obliged to remain where we were ; and 
such is the force of habit, that after a few months I 
was no longer disturbed by the abominable neighbour- 
hood, and could even give my lessons in peace. 



76 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

There was one thing, however, which was im- 
possible, viz., to have musical afternoons on Sundays. 
Our friends could not have enjoyed them, for Sunday 
was no day of rest for the poor ' piou-pious ' opposite ; 
they had to practise till six in the evening as on 
week-days. I therefore ventured to call upon the 
director of the Gymnase, the whilom celebrated 
Italian composer, Carafa, stated my case to him, and 
induced him, not without trouble, on a certain 
number of Sundays during the season to stop all 
practice from three o'clock in the afternoon, much to 
the relief of the overworked pupils, who were always 
anxious to give me proofs of their gratitude. Indeed, 
once, when a fire had broken out in our kitchen, they 
swarmed into the house, extinguished it, and in their 
zeal did much more mischief than the fire could have 
done. These musical afternoons became gradually more 
and more important, and it was there that, timidly at 
first, I tried to win acceptance for some of Beetho- 
ven's pianoforte works ; for, with the exception of 
two trios, the Kreutzer and the so-called ' Moonlight' 
sonata, none were known to other than a few earnest 
students. A great attraction was the exquisite sing- 
ing, or rather declaiming, of Delsarte, a most extra- 
ordinary artist whose dramatic power I have never 
heard equalled. His voice was far from fine, being 
rather disagreeable, but it was immediately forgotten 
after the first few notes, and he held his hearers spell- 
bound. I shall never forget the impression he 
created when singing Gluck's beautiful air : ' Cruelle, 
non, jamais ton cceur ne fut touche par mes alarmes.' 



A GALAXY OF TALEXT 77 

It was indescribable. Every syllable told, and the 
accents of despair were irresistible and inimitable. 
He sang at nearly every one of my matinees, for 
which I owe him a debt of gratitude. Lamartine, 
Odillon Barrot, Ledru Eollin, and Salvandy, who 
heard him at my house, each one complimented 
him in the same words : ' Monsieur, vous etes un 
grand orateur,' of which he complained to me 
with perhaps pardonable pride by saying, ' These 
gentlemen think there is nothing above an orator.' 
Delsarte died in a monastery, for which, at the time I 
knew him intimately, he certainly seemed to have no 
vocation. 

My life at this time became one of uninterrupted 
intellectual enjoyment, which will be easily under- 
stood by my readers when I enumerate a few of the 
names of distinguished men, in the most various 
walks of life, whom I could call personal friends : 
Ary Scheffer, Lamartine, Salvandy, Ledru Eollin, 
Alexandre Dumas pere, Ingres, Meyerbeer, Halevy, 
Delacroix, Louis Blanc, Guizot, ' Maitre ' Marie, not 
to forget Berlioz, Heller, Heine, Ernst, Jules Janin, 
Liszt, Chopin, and a host of others equally remark- 
able. Paris was then in reality what Wagner wished 
to make Bayreuth, the centre of civilisation ; and 
such a galaxy of celebrities as it contained has, I 
believe, never been assembled again. The charm 
of Parisian life at that period was that in certain 
' salons,' on fixed evenings in the week, most of these 
' mighty ones ' were to be met. 

Such a ' salon ' was that of Armand Bertin, 



78 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

made delightful as much by the charm of his wife as 
by his own intellectual power. It was there that I 
often met M. Ingres, and had the honour of playing 
some of Mozart's violin sonatas with him. Great 
artist as he was, with an immense reputation, he 
thought less of his painting than of his violin playing, 
which, to say the least of it, was vile. He generally 
was so moved by any Andante we played together, 
that he shed copious tears, and he drew them also 
from the eyes of his listeners, but they were not 
tears of delight. His immense superiority as an 
artist made this little weakness very interesting. An 
amusing incident occurred when, after his return 
from Eome, where he had been for years the director 
of the French ' Academic,' a grand dinner was given 
him, as a welcome, in the Salle Ventadour, at which 
every notability in Paris was present. After the 
speech in his honour, pronounced by whom I cannot 
remember, and received with uproarious enthusiasm, 
Ingres rose and returned thanks, and after wiping his 
spectacles, wet with tears as usual, he drew a paper 
from his pocket, adjusted it to the light, and the first 
words he read were : ' Les acclamations que je viens 
d'entendre.' It seemed odd and ' na'if ' that the words 
should have been written before the cheers were 
heard. 

Ingres was passionately fond of music a passion 
shared by nearly all the great painters with whom I 
have come in contact while amongst poets and 
literary men the devotees to music seem to form an 
exception. Ary Schefier, the noble painter whose 



FIKST VISIT TO ENGLAND 79 

fame was at its zenith in the forties, was never 
happier than when listening to music ; hence his 
friendship with Chopin, Liszt, arid a select number of 
musicians amongst whom I was happy to hold a 
place. To play to him in his studio, whilst he was 
engaged upon one of his great canvases, was to me 
one of my greatest delights. The well-known picture 
of ' Christ tempted by Satan ' (Liszt sitting as a 
model for Satan) was commenced and finished with 
the accompaniment of my music. SchefFer's works 
no longer hold the position in the world of art which 
they held at that time a time when they were sought 
for, in England especially, with avidity; he knew 
this, and on one occasion, speaking of this popularity, 
he added musingly, after a moment's silence, ' Cela 
me donne a penser.' 

In 1845 I made my first acquaintance with Eng- 
land, a very unsatisfactory one as it proved. Un- 
announced, I came over in the middle of the season 
on the invitation, principally, of one English friend, 
Mr. Fitzherbert, whom I had known for years in 
Paris. My name was not sufficiently known to open 
the doors of the big institutions to me at once ; still, 
I received an invitation from the directors of the Phil- 
harmonic Society to play at their last concert, but 
coupled with the condition that I should perform a 
concerto by Griffin, one of the directors. This I 
declined, and consequently did not play at all. I 
took part in a concert given by Sivori, and gave a 
concert in the Hanover Square rooms, at which Clara 
Novello and Balfe sang, and Sivori played, but the 



80 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

success of which was indifferent. So, after a sojourn 
of about eight weeks I returned to Paris, firmly 
resolved to shun England for ever ! The short season 
had, however, not been altogether uninteresting to 
me, enlivened as it was by a dispute between Ernst 
and Sivori on the subject of the authorship of ' Le 
Carneval de Venise.' I was charmed to meet Sivori 
in London, having made his acquaintance in the 
previous year, and fully recognised his claims to dis- 
tinction, in spite of the pompous title ' only pupil of 
Paganini,' which he assumed. I was often with him 
and glad of his society, when a few weeks later Ernst 
arrived. He was fresh from a triumphant tour 
through Holland and Belgium, and his coming was 
expected with much curiosity. Ernst was an older 
friend of mine than Sivori, as a musician he was far 
his superior, our tastes were more similar, and I 
naturally continued those friendly relations with him 
which had so long been my wont. I did not mean to 
neglect Sivori, but found to my surprise and sorrow 
that he looked upon my conduct with regard to Ernst 
as upon the worst of all betrayals. He had fully 
expected that I should cut Ernst, whom he considered 
his rival, and could not understand how I could 
dream of being friends with both sides. I had indeed 
dreamed of bringing them together, which would 
have been a pleasure to Ernst ; but when I hinted at 
this, the ire of Sivori knew no bounds, and I had to 
make a selection between the two, much against my 
will, but of course in favour of my old friend. Ernst 
achieved a great success and a well deserved one, for 



ERNST AT RICHMOND 81 

his talent was at its very height and his passionate 
playing most impressive. I rejoiced at his triumph 
all the more, as for a short time I had harboured 
serious doubts on the subject, prompted by a curious 
and somewhat ludicrous scene which I had witnessed 
a few days after his arrival. 

The directors of the Philharmonic Society had 
decided upon feting Ernst on his arrival and arranged 
a party at Richmond in his honour, which took the 
shape of an early dinner. The day was very fine, the 
company, including the principal critics, very nume- 
rous, and the dinner sumptuous. Ernst had to respond 
to many civilities, to empty his glass at the separate 
request of each of the ' convives,' so often that at last 
I saw that he was overcome, and feared that he might 
roll under the table. It was at that critical moment 
that somebody proposed Ernst should play something. 
The proposal was cheered vociferously, and as Ernst's 
violin did not dine out, some one was despatched into 
the village to try and find one. He soon returned 
with a violin, the price of which, with the bow, was 
marked fifteen shillings. This was handed to Ernst, 
and he gave the very first proof of his talent to a 
select English audience by playing his arrangement 
of Schubert's ' Erl King,' for violin alone, an impos- 
sible piece, which in his best days he could not play 
satisfactorily. Upon this wretched instrument and in 
a more than half-tipsy condition, it was excruciating, 
and I gave him up for lost ; but, whether it was that 
his listeners were in the same state as he, or that the 
extraordinary sounds they heard bewildered them, 

G 



82 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

his triumph was complete ! What is more, after his 
great and legitimate success, at a concert given on 
July 18 in aid of the German Hospital, his first public 
appearance in London, I heard it said with con- 
viction, ' Ah, but his playing at Eichmond was even 
finer ! ' The party was further enlivened by poor 
half-blind George Macfarren running straight into 
the Thames and having to be fished out, fortunately 
without any hurt to him. 

I had brought a few letters of introduction with 
me, one of which was to a most amiable man, a mem- 
ber of Parliament, who a few years later rose to a 
high position in the Government. I had left the 
letter at his house with my card, and he called upon 
me the very next day, was charming, most kind, and 
to my great satisfaction spoke French most fluently. 
He knew from the letter it was my wish to be heard, 
and as it so happened that he had a large evening 
party two days later, he proposed that I should play 
a few pieces during the evening, saying that I should 
meet many influential people, with whom I would 
certainly be glad to make acquaintance. I accepted 
readily. When he withdrew he turned back at the 
door and said, ' Might I ask you in what style you 
play ? ' I was puzzled and could not give a clear 
answer. He next asked, ' Do you know Mr. 
Alexander Dreyschock ? ' ' Yes,' I said, ' he is an 
admirable and powerful pianist.' 'Do you play in 
his style ? ' ' No, I can conscientiously say that my 
style differs from his.' ' Oh, I am so glad,' said my 
friend, ' for he plays so loud, et cela empcche les dames 



MUSICAL TASTE IN 1843 83 

de causer' I meekly suggested that no music at all 
might perhaps be more to the purpose, but he would 
not hear of that, insisted upon my coming, and I did 
go, played two pieces, and can give myself credit for 
not having empeche les dames de causer, nor the gentle- 
men either. This shows in what estimation music 
was held in 1843 in the most fashionable society ; the 
change that has taken place since then is astounding. 
Another of my letters of introduction was to 
Count d'Orsay, the brilliant and eccentric roi des 

*j * 

modes. I drove to Kensington Gore, where he lived, 
and after ringing the bell at the gate, a small side 
door opened to give passage to the head of the 
porter who inquired my business. I told him I had 
a letter to deliver to Count d'Orsay, and at his request 
gave it to him, together with my card. He then shut 
the door, leaving me wondering in the street. About 
ten minutes later the door opened again, I was 
admitted and conducted through a long avenue to 
the luxurious house, in which the Count received me 
with the utmost politeness and grace. When after 
half an hour I took my departure, he begged me to 
renew my visit and to excuse him if he did not return 
my call, as for various reasons he did not go out 
much. It then dawned upon me that if he ventured 
out he might possibly not re-enter the house for a 
long time, and that for this reason such precautions 
were used in admitting unknown- visitors. I was 
afterwards invited to several small evening parties 
at Gore House, made delightful by Lady Blessing- 
ton's grace and d'Orsay's wit. Prince Napoleon was 

G 2 



84- LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

generally one of the guests, but at that time only 
interested me by his historical name, and I cannot 
recollect anything characteristic connected with him. 
In July I returned to Paris with Ernst, little satisfied 
with England, and much less anticipating that it 
would eventually become my home, my cherished 
home. 

Nothing of importance happened during the rest 
of the year, and the circle of my acquaintance 
extended further and farther, the number of my 
pupils increased steadily, and I had every reason to 
be satisfied with my lot. My ambition, however, was 
not entirely satisfied, for, although successful at my 
own and many other concerts, I had not been invited 
to play at the ' Concerts du Conservatoire,' which 
then, even more than at present, was the highest 
distinction to which an artist could aspire. I did not 
venture to claim the honour for fear of a refusal, 
which would have pained me. One evening, return- 
ing on foot from a late party, as I was passing Eue 
Taitbout I sang tolerably loud, there being no one 
very near, the theme of the Finale of Beethoven's 
Choral Symphony, which I had heard on the previous 
Sunday at the Conservatoire. I had not noticed a 
gentleman who was walking about five yards before 
me in the same direction, and who, hearing me sing, 
stopped when I came up to him, when I recognised the 
redoubtable conductor of the ' Concerts du Conserva- 
toire,' M. Habeneck, whose personal acquaintance I 
had not made. He addressed me with, ' Ah, vous 
chantez la neuvieme ? ' and on my replying with a 



BEETHOVEN FESTIVAL AT BONN 85 

few enthusiastic expressions, he asked brusquely : 
c Who are you ? ' I gave my name, upon which he 
shook hands with me, said he had heard often of my 
doings, and to my surprise and delight ended with 
the question : ' Why don't you play at our concerts ? ' 
I explained frankly that I had not dared to apply for 
such an honour ; and ' Call to-morrow and we will 
arrange that,' was his welcome answer. And so I 
played at the Conservatoire most unexpectedly in 
1844, and had every reason to be satisfied with the 
reception that was accorded to me. I had chosen 
Beethoven's E flat concerto, my interpretation of 
which met with almost general approval. I say 
' almost ' because after the performance a much 
respected member of the orchestra, Urban, the prin- 
cipal viola, apostrophised me with : ' Why do you 
change Beethoven ? ' I had not really changed any- 
thing in the text, but, misled by the example of 
Liszt, I used then for the sake of effect to play some 
passages in octaves instead of in single notes, and 
otherwise amplify certain passages. This Urban did 
not like, and his rebuke was well merited. I think 
Liszt must have felt equal scruples, for when, on the 
occasion of the unveiling of Beethoven's statue at 
Bonn in August, 1845, he played the same concerto, 
he adhered scrupulously to the text, and a finer and 
grander reading of the work could not be imagined. 
Urban was a remarkable viola player, the best I ever 
heard, and a singular character, very outspoken, as 
bis remark to me proves, and one of the most up- 
right men that ever lived. He was of an extremely 



86 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

religious turn of mind, and accepted the position of 
principal viola at the Grand Opera, which he held 
for a long term of years, only on the condition that 
his seat was to be so arranged that he might turn 
his back upon the stage and avoid witnessing the 
abominations of the ballet. The Beethoven festival 
at Bonn, mentioned incidentally just now, to which 
Berlioz and I journeyed together from Paris, drew 
together a large number of the most notable musicians 
from all countries, all anxious to do homage to the 
memory of that incomparable genius. It was graced 
by the presence of the King of Prussia and his guests, 
Queen Victoria and the Prince Consort, who wit- 
nessed from a royal box built purposely in the square 
the unveiling of the statue, which, to the astonish- 
ment of the multitude that surrounded it, was found 
when the veil fell to turn its back upon the Eoyalties. 
Liszt was the hero of the fete, and justly so, for 
without his colossal exertions it would never have 
taken place. He was seldom to be approached by 
us, so great was the crowd of his admirers that 
besieged him constantly ; but the occasional half 
hours that he could spare to Berlioz and myself 
were made memorable by the flashes of his eloquence 
and his wit. His speech was indeed golden. At the 
first concert he played us, however, an unpardonable 
trick. For the opening of the programme he had 
composed a cantata of considerable length, devoid of 
interest, as the rehearsals had shown us, but which 
we had resigned ourselves to listen to patiently, and 
so we did. Hardly was it concluded, and we were 



ANECDOTES OF LISZT 87 

preparing ourselves to enjoy Beethoven's music, when 
the Eoyalties, who had been detained until then, 
entered their box, and Liszt, to our dismay, began 
the whole cantata over again, inflicting it a second 
time on the immense audience, who, out of respect 
for the crowned heads, had to endure it, though pro- 
bably not without inward grumbling. One morning, 
during this week of festivities, I found him alone, and 
the conversation turning upon events and anecdotes 
which had made the years from 1838 to 1846 
memorable to both of us, he suddenly exclaimed, 
4 Ah 1'heureux temps ! oil Ton pouvait etre si bete ! ' 
He spoke feelingly, and I think rendered himself jus- 
tice, for the things he could say and do during that 
period when he was the best feted artist that perhaps 
had ever lived bordered really on the ludicrous. 
Thus, after his great triumphs in Germany, especially 
in Berlin, where the ladies had fought for his gloves, 
I heard him say at one of his receptions in Paris, the 
name of the King of Prussia being mentioned : ' Le 
roi a ete tres convenalle ! ' To be different from the 
rest of mankind, to know nothing of the usual modes 
of living, or rather to appear ignorant of them, seemed 
his one aim. Once, having accidentally met me on 
the Boulevards, he asked me to dine with him at the 
Cafe de Paris. We enjoyed a good but simple dinner, 
and when the waiter brought him the bill, which could 
hardly have amounted to 30 frs., he asked me quite 
seriously if I thought 40 frs. for the waiter would be 
sufficient ! ' Je ne sais jamais ces choses,' he said, 
,and without my remonstrances he would have given 



88 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

to the waiter more than the whole dinner had cost. 
Calling upon him one day I found him engaged with 
his tailor, and busy looking at patterns for waist- 
coats. ' I have at least sixty,' said he to me, ' but 
never find one to my liking when I want it.' ' What 
do you say to this pattern ? ' he asked presently, and 
on my approving of it he came out with 'Voulez- 
vous que je vous en fasse faire un ? ' a kind offer 
which was declined with thanks. 

One scene I witnessed characterises another side 
of his behaviour at that time. The programme of 
one of his concerts given in the ' Salle du Conserva- 
toire ' contained the ' Kreutzer ' sonata to be played 
by Liszt and Massart, a celebrated and much 
esteemed violinist, professor at the Conservatoire. 
Massart was just commencing the first bar of the 
introduction when a voice from the audience called 
out ' Eobert le Diable ! ' At that time Liszt had com- 
posed a very brilliant fantasia on themes from that 
opera, and played it always with immense success. 
The call was taken up by other voices, and in a 
moment the cries ' Eobert le Diable ! ' ' Eobert le 
Diable ! ' drowned the tones of the violin. Liszt rose, 
bowed, and said: ' Je suis toujoursl'humble serviteur 
du public, mais est-ce qu'on desire la fantaisie avant 
ou apres la sonate ? ' Eenewed cries of ' Eobert, 
Eobert ! ' were the answer, upon which Liszt turned 
half round to poor Massart and dismissed him with a 
wave of the hand, without a syllable of excuse or 
regret. He did play the fantasia magnificently, 
rousing the public to a frenzy of enthusiasm, then 



A DUET WITH LISZT 89 

called Massart out of his retreat, and we had the 
' Kreutzer,' which somehow no longer seemed in its 
right place. On another occasion, at a concert given 
for the benefit of the Polish refugees at the house of 
Princess Czartoriska, he did me the honour to ask 
rne to play a duet for two pianos with him, and chose 
Thalberg's well-known ' Fantasia ' on ' Norma.' We 
had no rehearsal, but he said to me : ' Let us take the 
theme of the variations at a moderate pace, the effect 
will be better.' Now the first part of this theme is 
accompanied on the second piano (which Liszt had 
chosen) by octaves for both hands, which octaves in 
the second part fall to the lot of the first piano. 
What was my horror when, in spite of the caution 
he had given me, Liszt started his octaves at such a 
pace that I did not conceive the possibility of getting 
through my portion of them alive. Somehow I 
managed it, badly enough, but if I ever understood 
the French saying ' suer sang et eau ' it was then. I 
had my revenge, however. In the second variation, 
where the pianos successively accompany the theme 
with chromatic scales, Liszt, instead of confining him- 
self to the scales, altered them by introducing double 
and additional notes, a feat of amazing difficulty, 
which made my hair stand on end, but which I did 
not feel compelled to try and imitate, simple chro- 
matic scales neatly and rapidly played being, on the 
whole, more effective ; so when my turn came I con- 
fined myself to them, and earned a round of applause 
in which Liszt most generously joined. 

Of his ready wit the following little anecdote, 



90 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

hardly known I believe, may serve as an example. 
A choral society of amateurs had been formed in 
Paris under his direction, most of the members belong- 
ing to the highest aristocracy. At the rehearsals 
Princess Belgiojoso, an accomplished musician, ac- 
companied on the piano. As an accompanist she 
had, however, serious faults, for she took great liber- 
ties with the time, treating what she had to play as 
if it had been a ' Nocturne ' or ' Ballade ' by Chopin, 
her admired master. During one of these rehearsals, 
at which I was present by invitation, a young Ger- 
man tenor, not perfectly at home in the French 
tongue, complained of these liberties by muttering 
in a low voice at first, but which grew louder and 
louder : ' II n'y a pas de tact, il n'y a pas de tact* 
evidently under the impression that the German word 
4 takt ' had the same meaning in French. After a 
while Liszt corrected him by saying : * Monsieur, 
Madame la Princesse manque de mesure, mais vous 
manquez de tact.' 

Of the years between 1843 and 1847 it only 
remains to relate that in 1843 I had the honour 
of being commanded to play at the Chateau 
d'Eu on the occasion of the .visit of H.M. Queen 
Victoria and Prince Albert to Louis Philippe. The 
orchestra and chorus of the Conservatoire had also 
been summoned, and Auber was director of the 
music in general. On the entrance, on Louis 
Philippe's arm, of Queen Victoria into the music- 
room, she was most appropriately greeted with the 



CHAMBER CONCERTS IN PARIS 91 

beautiful chorus from Gluck's ' Iphigenie en Aulide,' 
commencing ' Que de grace, que de majeste.' Those 
were brilliant days, favoured by the most beautiful 
weather. One incident connected with my trip to 
Eu was very original. I learnt, one day before the 
concert at which I was to play, that there was no 
piano at the chateau fit to be used on such an occa- 
sion, and I had to send one from Paris. But how to 
send it? That was the question. There was not 
time for the usual mode of conveyance, so I went to 
the office of the diligence, where the mention of a 

O 7 

grand piano by Erard as part of my luggage was at 
first received with derisive laughter. But the magical 
words ' Par ordre du roi ' overcame the difficulty, 
and the piano was stowed on the top of the huge 
diligence, the only instance on record, I believe, of 
a pianist travelling in the same carriage with his 
instrument. 

The year 1847 forms an epoch in my musical life. 
1 had then long been prominently before the public, 
and felt strong enough to venture upon the institution 
of a series of ' concerts de musique de chambre,' never 
before tried in Paris. In Alard and Franchomme, the 
two foremost performers on the violin and violoncello, 
admirable artists both, I found willing, even enthusi- 
astic, colleagues. The ' Salle du Conservatoire ' was 
granted us, and in February 1847 we gave our first 
concert, before an audience which included the very 
elite of Parisian artistic and literary society. Lamar- 
tine, George Sand, Horace Vernet, Ary Scheffer, 
Guizot, Salvandy, Ledru Eollin, Marie, Alexandre 



92 LIFE OF SIR CHAELES HALLE 

Dumas, and many others equally celebrated, lilled 
the boxes as subscribers. I was well aware of the 
progress the taste for good music had made during 
the last decade. Still, the success of these concerts, 
purely instrumental ones, surpassed my most sanguine 
expectations, Soon it became almost as difficult to 
obtain tickets for them as for the great concerts of the 
Conservatoire ; in fact, we scored a great success. 
The programmes consisted exclusively of ensemble 
music, from duets to quintets, Armingand holding the 
post of second violin, and Casimir Nery that of viola. 
The preparation for the concerts was a labour of love 
for us all, and rehearsals took place every day while 
the series lasted. It seems strange to me now, writing 
in 1895, that so many universally-known works like 
Mendelssohn's trios, Schumann's quintet and quartet, 
had then the charm of absolute novelty. This first 
season having been so eminently successful, the an- 
nouncement of the second in 1848 drew together a 
still greater number of subscribers, so that every place 
was disposed of before the first concert, which took 
place at the commencement of February. 

Two concerts had been given when the Eevolution 
broke out, and to me everything was changed as by 
magic. In Paris by far the greatest part of a musi- 
cian's income was invariably derived from teaching ; 
so it was with Chopin, Heller, many others, and my- 
self ; but from the day after the Eevolution the pupils 
disappeared, and at the end of a week I could only 
boast of one (he was an old Englishman), and my 
friends Alard and Franchomme had none left. The 



THE REVOLUTION OF 1848 93 

audience at our third concert did not number fifty 
people, although every place was subscribed for. The 
outlook was most gloomy and I realised soon that a 
serious crisis had arrived in my life, and that an im- 
mediate determination had to be taken for the sake of 
my family, which consisted then of my wife and two 
small children. What determination it was to be I 
could not at once decide, but I felt that I must be 
free, and resolved therefore to abandon the remaining 
five concerts of the series, my colleagues concurring 
readily. We announced that the money would be 
returned, and on the very day that the announcement 
appeared my house was literally besieged from morn- 
ing to evening by eager applicants, money being for 
a while so scarce that daily processions of people were 
seen going to the mint to exchange their silver valu- 
ables for ready cash. 

Of the Eevolution itself I can only relate what I 
saw with my own eyes, and that is very little, although 
at one moment my life was in danger, viz. on the eve 
of the Eevolution, when nothing serious was expected. 
I had gone with a friend (M. Guibert) to look at the 
crowds on the Boulevards, and found that the Foreign 
Office on the Boulevard des Capucines was guarded 
by a carre of military, which obliged us to pass through 
the Eue Basse des Eemparts, having the soldiers some 
10 or 12 feet above our heads. This street was 
densely crowded and we advanced very slowly, when 
suddenly, without any warning, we were fired into 
with terrible effect, a woman close by my side and a 
child within my reach being both shot dead. The 



94 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

surprise was dreadful, and Boulevard and street were 
cleared in an instant. I reached my house without 
accident, meeting Only flying people, and intensely 
enjoyed the feeling of safety. We lived then at the 
corner of the Place St. Georges, a circular place into 
which four streets lead. The next morning, between 
five and six o'clock, I was awakened bv a singular 

*/ o 

noise under our windows, and, stepping upon the 
balcony, I saw that the four streets had been barri- 
caded and that all communication between the Place 
St. Georges and the rest of the world had been cut 
off. The barricades were manned by a set of ill- 
looking, hirsute people, armed with antediluvian 
weapons. The construction of the barricades not 
being finished yet, the mob paid small attention to 
the inhabitants of the houses that surrounded the 
Place. A little later, however, when stepping a second 
time on to the balcony, I saw Madame Thiers come 
out of her house in a loose dressing-gown, carrying 
several guns and handing them to the insurgents, 

O O o 

with whom M. Thiers, as leader of the Opposition and 
credited with Republican tendencies, stood in high 
favour. As I had the advantage of a slight acquaint- 
ance with M. and Mme. Thiers, whose house was 
the second from the one in which I lived with my 
family, I descended quickly and approached her, to 
compare notes, not a little pleased to put myself ap- 
parently under her protection and thereby to gain 
some respect from our ruffian captors. But there was 
little to fear from them, as it proved. They asked 
for arms, of which I had none to give, and for wine, 



FLIGHT OF LOUIS PHILIPPE 95 

which they drank ' on the premises,' but without 
excess. The flags on the barricades bore on the first 
day the inscription, ' Vive la Beforme,' which was 
changed the next day into ' Vive la Kepublique.' 
Being pretty far from the centre of Paris, we heard 
no news, everything seemed quiet, and only twice 
during the day did we see a regiment of soldiers pass 
through the Rue St. Lazare, at the end of our street, 
with their guns reversed, from which we concluded 
that at all events part of the army had fraternised 
with the people. Our friends of the barricades 
cheered them most vociferously, but had no more 
news of what was going on than we. 

On the evening of the second day this imprison- 
ment became intolerable to me, and I ventured to ask 
the sentinels if I might go to inquire after my friends. 
Permission being given, I passed through and found 
a second barricade at the end of the street, which also 
proved no obstacle. Fortunately, I found my friends, 
of whom Heller was the first I visited, all well, heard 
for the first time of the flight of Louis Philippe, the 
formation of a ' Gouvernement provisoire,' and after an 
hour's absence returned home with this weighty news. 
Approaching the lower barricade of our street, I was 
challenged by a most ferocious-looking individual in 
the gruffest of voices with ' Qui vive ? ' I drew as 
near to him as I could and said that I really did not 
know under the circumstances what was the proper 
answer to give, but that I only wanted to return to 
"my family in the Place St. Georges, which I had left 
but an hour before. Apparently satisfied, he screamed 



96 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

out, looking more grim than before, ' Eh bien, passez ! 
mais prenez garde la-bas ! ' Alarmed and thinking of 
possible ambuscades, I asked him what danger 
threatened me ' la-bas.' ' C'est qu'il y a de 1'eau,' 
was the answer. It had been raining, and the pave- 
ment having been partially taken up, there were pools 
of water here and there, and my formidable-looking 
challenger was anxious that I should not wet my 
feet ! A rose-coloured revolution, indeed ! One, 
however, which completely destroyed my prospects 
in Paris and forced me to consider very seriously 
what to do next. I could not remain in Paris, and 
my thoughts began to travel towards London, when 
one day M. de Soligny, formerly French Charge 
d'Affaires in Mexico, called with a message from 
M. de Lamartine, the chief of the ' Gouvernement pro- 
visoire.' The message was nothing less than the offer 
of the secretaryship at the French Embassy to the 
German Diet in Frankfort, Soligny being the chosen 
ambassador. I believe, however, that he never occu- 
pied the post. Twenty-four hours were given me for 
my decision, and those were most anxious hours, but 
at the end of them I felt that musician I was and 
musician I must remain. I declined the tempting 
offer, and went direct to Lamartine to express my 
thanks and to explain my reasons for refusing it. A 
fortnight more was spent in consultation with my 
best friends, the result of which was that I decided 
upon going to London, there to seek a new existence 
for my family. 

I left Paris in March 1848 with a very heavy 



MADEMOISELLE TAGL10NI 97 

heart indeed ; not only had I to leave my family be- 
hind me at first, but the separation from so many 
friends, from a society which I had good reason to 
think unequalled in the world, was a hard wrench. 
Often during my twelve years of residence there had 
I said to myself that it would be impossible for me to 
live anywhere else, and now I had to say ' adieu ' 
most unexpectedly ; for, one short month before, I 
thought myself secure in Paris for the rest of my 
lifetime. A new life was to begin for me in England ; 
but before I narrate what befell me here, I must 
throw a few retrospective glances upon people I met 
in Paris and who have not yet been mentioned in 
these memoirs. 

4 Plo.ce aux dames." 1 In my earliest recollection 
dwells one evening in 1839, when a friend took me 
to one of the receptions of Mademoiselle Taglioni, the 
celebrated dancer, the admired of the admired, whose 
every attitude, every motion, was an embodiment of 
grace, a study for the sculptor and painter. My 
admiration for her knew no bounds, and to be in her 
own salon was great happiness to me. There were 
crowds of people there, and the best names of France 
were represented : my excitement was intense when 
she kindly asked me to play something. I did so, 
and then behind my back I heard her say to a friend, 
' mais il joue comme un ange ; ' words that thrilled 
my every nerve. I could not approach her again 
during the evening, and the next time I met her was 
about forty years later, when at a dinner-party in 
London I found myself seated by her side. Then I 

ii 



98 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES I1ALLE 

told her of that, to me, memorable evening, repeated 
to her the very words she had spoken, never forgotten 
by me, and added : ' Ah, Madame Taglioni, if you 
knew how deeply in love I was with you at that 
time ! ' ' Et vous me dites cela maintenant ! ' was 
her prompt reply. 

Another remarkable lady, very different from 
Mademoiselle Taglioni, for she was a confirmed 
invalid, was Mademoiselle Louisa Bertin, sister of 
Armand Bertin, spoken of in Parisian society invari- 
ably as Mademoiselle Louisa, just as if she had been 
some royalty. She was a most distinguished lady, 
and a very clever and serious musician, accomplish- 
ing even the composition of an opera, ' Esmeralda,' 
which, through the influence of the ' Journal des 
Debats,' was actually performed at the Grand Opera, 
called then ' L' Academic Eoyale de Musique.' The 
work had no success, and was withdrawn after a few 
performances. What I remember best was the 
general rehearsal, when the stalls were crowded with 
celebrities of all kinds : friends of the autocrat 
Armand, and also of the very amiable lady whose 
work they were invited to judge. Eossini was placed 
on the stage in an easy chair close to the scenery on 
the left side, and was, of course, the observed of all 
observers. He gave no sign during the first act, but 
in the middle of the second, when a momentary 
pause had occurred, he rose and advanced slowly to- 
wards the conductor. Immediately a whisper ran 
through the whole house ' Eossini va parler ' every- 
body was all ears, and this was what he said : * Mon- 



EOSSINI AND DONIZETTI 09 

sieur Haberieck, vous lie voyez done pas ? II y a un 
quinquet qui fume ; ' and he returned to his seat. 
A somewhat similar scene, of which, however, I was 
not an eye-witness, had occurred at one of the re- 
hearsals of his own ' Gruillaume Tell.' There, also, 
during a pause, he had crossed the stage up to a spot 
from which he could speak to M. Brod, the celebrated 
oboe player, professor of the Conservatoire, whom 
he addressed with, ' M Brod, have you your snuff- 
box with you ? ' ' Yes, maestro.' ' Then give me a 
pinch.' The pinch duly taken, he continued : c M. 
Brod, in the introduction to such and such an air 
there occurs an F which you play sharp ; I should 
prefer it natural, if you please. With regard to the F 
sharp, ne vous en tourmentez pas ; nous trouverons 
moyen de la placer ailleurs.' I had occasion to relate 
this little anecdote to Berlioz, who jumped up from 
his chair, exclaiming, ' C'est foudroyant d'esprit ! ' 

A remarkable man I met now and then at the 
house of M. Mallet in 1840 and 1841 was Donizetti, 
a most distinguished, amiable, and fashionable gentle- 
man, as elegant as most of his music. He was young 
still, but such a prolific composer that at that time 
he had already written upwards of forty operas. I 
remember talking with him about Eossini, and asking 
if Eossini had really composed the ' Barbiere ' in a 
fortnight. ' Oh, I quite believe it,' said he, ' he has 
always been such a lazy fellow ! ' I confess that I 
looked with wonder and admiration at a man who 
considered that to spend a whole fortnight over the 
composition of an opera was a waste of time. An- 

ir 2 



100 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

other and much more remarkable man, whom I saw 
several times at my friend Leo's house, was Alexander 
von Humboldt, certainly the most celebrated man of his 
time. When the invitation bore the words ' To meet 
Humboldt,' the rooms were naturally crowded, and 
he was the cynosure of all eyes. Wherever he stood 
a crowd of eager listeners assembled around him, all 
mute and full of reverence, and intent on every word 
that fell from his lips. He never attempted to lead 
or originate a conversation in the true sense of the 
word ; he always spoke alone, delivering a lecture on 
one subject or another, and was never anxious to 
hear anybody else's opinion. I was once asked to play 
for him, and looked upon this invitation as an event 
in my life. There had been a momentary silence in 
the rooms, but the moment I began to play von 
Humboldt began to hold forth on a new and evidently 
most interesting topic, his voice rising with every one 
of my crescendos, dominating my most powerful fortes, 
and resuming its normal level only with my most 
delicate phrases. It was a duet which I did not 
sustain long ' je pliais bagage,' and left the ' champ 
de bataille ' to him, undoubtedly much to the advan- 
tage of those whom he addressed. 



ARRIVAL IN LONDON 101 



CHAPTER III 

1848-1866 

Arrival in London : a gloomy outlook Engagements at Covent Garden 
and the Musical Union concerts A contrast: 1848-1895 Inter- 
views with Lord Brougham and Cobden Music v. Conversation at 
the Chevalier de Bunsen's Mr. and Mrs. Sartoris's parties Henry 
F. Chorley Growth of my teaching clientele Death of my father 
Summons from Manchester I decide to leave London London 
friends : anecdotes of Moscheles Reception in Manchester : anec- 
dotes of pupils : a strange sonata The Gentlemen's Concerts : an 
agonising orchestra Visit of Chopin I start chamber concerts : 
slow but steady progress Anecdote of Mr. Ella Jenny Lind in 
Manchester : the penalties of popularity I accept the conductorship 
of the Gentlemen's Concerts and reorganise the band I. found the 
St. Cecilia Society: Edward Hecht A musical (?) clergyman and 
his ' List of Deficiencies ' Opera at the Theatre Royal, Manchester : 
anecdotes of John Knowles and Carl Formes Pianoforte recitals in 
London and elsewhere from 1850 onwards Georg Lichtenstein 
Extension of my chamber-music concerts in Manchester: visits of 
Molique, Ernst, Sainton, Vieuxtemps, and Piatti Acquaintance 
with the Brownings : Browning's fine musical taste and extensive 
knowledge Meyerbeer, Costa, and Spohr The Art Treasures Ex- 
hibition in Manchester in 1857 : I am entrusted with the musical 
arrangements Friendship with Richard Doyle Railway eccentrici- 
ties I resolve to keep together my Exhibition orchestra Dismay of 
my friends at my audacity Disastrous financial prospects : profits a 
penny per concert Development of my orchestra : statistics of works 
performed at the Free Trade Hall concerts, 1858-1895 I conduct 
English opera at Her Majesty's Theatre, 1860-1861 Kidnapping a 
stage-child : Santley's presence of mind Anecdotes of Madame 
Parepa and Madame Sherrington Production of ' Iphige"nie en 
Tauride'at Manchester and at Lord Dudley's Production of ' Ar- 
mida : ' interesting letter from Berlioz. 

WITH my arrival in March 1848 begins a new epoch 
in my life, by far the most important and active one, 
which in many respects has been full of surprises to 



102 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

me. Very far indeed was I then from anticipating 
that I should one day feel thoroughly at home in 
England, be proud to become one of her citizens, and 
play a humble but not altogether unimportant part 
in the development of her musical taste. My first 
call was upon my friend Berlioz, who was in trouble 
through the bankruptcy of Monsieur Jullien, by 
w T hom he had been engaged to conduct the opera at 
Drury Lane. I did not meet him, but returning 
home from a long round of calls I found the following 
characteristic note : 

Mon cher Halle, Je suis bien fdcM d'avoir le plaisir de 
vous voir, je vous remercie neanmoins d'etre venu a la maison 
aussitot apres votre naufrage sur les cotes d'Angleterre. Si 
vous y etes ce soir, nous nous desolerons ensemble enfumant. 
Je reviendrai chez vous vers les dix heures. Tout a vous, 

HECTOR BERLioz. 1 

And we did ' desoler ' ourselves together, the 
future looking very black indeed. The five years 
which had elapsed since I left London in '43 had, 
however, brought some change in my position as an 
artist?, and, instead of having to solicit engagements, 
the opportunity of playing in public was offered to 
me spontaneously. Some grand orchestral concerts 
were given at Covent Garden under the direction of 
Signer Costa, and I soon received an invitation to 
play Beethoven's E flat concerto at one of them. This 

1 Dear Halle, I am very sorry to have the pleasure of seeing you, 
nevertheless I thank you for having come to this house so soon after your 
shipwreck on the coast of England. If you are at home to-night we shall 
lament together while smoking. I shall come to you about ten o'clock. 
Ever yours, HECTOR BEKLIOZ. 



THE MUSICAL UNION 103 

I may consider my first public appearance in England, 
and it was favourably received and criticised. An 
invitation to play at the Musical Union followed imme- 
diately, and was renewed several times during the 
season. The Musical Union, the predecessor of the 
Popular Concerts, was originated and directed by 
Mr. John Ella, and, at the time I speak of, was very 
flourishing, and the most important concert institu- 
tion (for chamber music) in London. The Duke of 
Cambridge was president, and there was a committee 
composed of members of the highest aristocracy, 
who, however, did not interfere with the manage- 
ment of the concerts. That was entirely in the hands 
of Mr. Ella. 

Before relating what passed between Mr. Ella 
and me on the occasion of my first performance at 
the Musical Union, I must remind my readers that I 
speak of the year 1848, since which time such a 
revolution in musical matters has taken place, that 
what happened then may seem incredible now. When 
Mr. Ella asked me w T hat I wished to play, and heard 
that it was one of Beethoven's pianoforte sonatas, he 
exclaimed, ' Impossible ! ' and endeavoured to demon- 
strate that they were not works to be played in 
public ; that, as far as he knew, no solo sonata had 
ever before been included in any concert programme, 
and that he could not venture upon offering one to 
his subscribers. I had to battle for several days 
before he gave way. He consented at last, and was 
then much surprised to find that the sonata I had 
chosen (Op. 31, No. 3 in E flat) pleased so much that 



104 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

several ladies who heard it arranged afternoon parties 
in order to hear it once more. I have searched the 
columns of the ' Musical World ' for at least fifteen 
years previous to 1848, but have not found one 
instance of a sonata being included in a concert 
programme ; Ella therefore may have been right in 
considering my venture a bold one. Subsequently 
he made no difficulty about admitting other sonatas ; 
he only recommended me to be careful in their 
selection, and to choose those that could more easily 
be appreciated. I advanced therefore very cau- 
tiously, the second sonata I played being the one in 
D, Op. 28, commonly known as the 'Pastorale.' What 
a contrast 1848 offers to 1895 ! Then the question 
was : Can this or that sonata be understood by the 
audience? Nowadays the difficulty lies in finding 
one not too hackneyed. 

These few public appearances did more for me 
to keep starvation from my door than the host of 
letters of introduction I had brought from Paris, 
some of them to very interesting people. One was 
to Lord Brougham, who received me very kindly in 
his mansion in Grafton Street, but candidly told me 
that music was not at all in his line ; another was 
to Mr. Eichard Cobden, who said with equal can- 
dour that he had never been able to distinguish 
' God Save the Queen ' from any other tune ; a third 
was for Chevalier de Bunsen, the Prussian Ambas- 
sador, a most distinguished and amiable man and a 
great lover of music. In his family circle I have 
spent many a pleasant hour, although my first ap- 



MUSIC V. CONVERSATION 105 

pearance in his ' salon ' had been far from agreeable 
to me. I had received a very kind invitation from 
him to play at one of his receptions, and had set 
great hopes upon it, for necessarily there would be 
many people there who could favour my views if I 
succeeded in gaining their approbation. The rooms 
were densely crowded, everybody standing, as nearly 
all the seats had been removed, and a frightful babel 
of tongues was going on. When I was asked to 
play, I thought in my innocence that silence would 
be established and sat down to the piano ; but after a 
few minutes I rose again with the conviction that 
not a note of what I had played could have been 
heard. The thanks of the chevalier seemed a cruel 
mockery ; still, when later in the evening he asked 
me to play again, he was so amiable, that out of 
deference to him I did so ; but unable at the moment 
to recollect a shorter piece than the one I had played 
half an hour before, I repeated it, and neither the 
chevalier nor anybody else detected the identity ! 

To another introduction, that to Mrs. Sartoris 
(nee Adelaide Kemble), I owe some of the greatest 
pleasures, I have enjoyed in London. She was indeed 
a rare woman, and her somewhat taciturn husband a 
man of vast intelligence. Both were musicians to 
the core, intensely enthusiastic, and of sound judg- 
ment. Their house reminded me strongly of the 
' salon ' of Armand Bertin in Paris, for it was the 
rendezvous of most of the remarkable people in 
London : poets, painters, musicians, all feeling equally 
at home, and all finding somethirig to interest them. 



LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

It is to Mrs. Sartoris that I owe my first acquaintance 
with Browning, Thackeray, Dickens, Leighton, Watts, 
Wilkie Collins, and a host of other celebrities ; and 
it will always be my pride to have enjoyed their 
affectionate and intimate friendship till death removed 
them both. Another house, the tiniest in London 
perhaps, but a real gem, to which I repaired often with 
great pleasure, was that of Henry F. Chorley, the 
musical critic arid contributor to the ' Athenasum.' I 
was always sure to find interesting men there, and met 
Cockburn and Coleridge, who both rose to be Lord 
Chief Justices of England, for the first time under his 
roof. He was a man of strong views, fearless in his 
criticism, perfectly honest, although often and uncon- 
sciously swayed by personal antipathies or sympathies. 
Of his oddities I shall have to speak now and then. 

Slowly I laid the foundations for a new existence ; 
pupils came to me, some of them being former pupils 
who had fled from Paris like myself and continued 
their lessons in London. Amongst them there was 
the daughter of M. Guizot, who, fallen from his high 
estate, was living in a modest house in Pelham 
Crescent, Brompton. After the sanguinary June 
days in Paris, during which I was tortured with 
anxiety for my family, I sent for them and had no 
rest till I saw them safe in London. Soon after a 
hard blow fell upon me, crushing for a time all my 
energies the death of my beloved father. My grief 
was beyond all expression, and under the weight of 
memories that crowded upon me I felt as weak as a 
child. Stern necessity roused me at last out of my 
stupor ; the London season was drawing to a close ; 



SUMMONS TO MANCHESTER 107 

a musical autumn and winter season did not then 
exist, and all I could hope for was to find some stray 
pupils and to derive from them an uncertain income. 
At this crisis I received an important communi- 
cation from Manchester, through a brother of my 
Parisian friend Leo, who was residing there. Mr. H. 
Leo had several times visited his brother in Paris ; I 
had made his acquaintance and found him not only a 
very amiable man, but a most enthusiastic amateur 
of music and a great connoisseur. He held a good 
position in Manchester, and, as far as music was con- 
cerned, he was looked upon as an authority and 
deservedly so. At the end of June he came to 
London purposely to propose that I should take up 
my residence in Manchester, and he assured me, on 
behalf of many devoted lovers of music, that Man- 
chester was quite ripe to be taken in hand, and that they 
thought me the fittest man to stir the dormant taste 
for the art. We had several interviews, and in the 
end, although I knew absolutely nothing of Man- 
chester beyond that it was a large and rich town, I 
determined to give it a trial ; on the condition, how- 
ever, that a fixed number of pupils (not a small one) 
should be enrolled to begin work from the day of my 
arrival, and the further condition that I should 
always be allowed to spend the summer season in 
London, where I had been too successful already, 
and had made too many friends to harbour the 
thought of abandoning it altogether. Not a week 
had elapsed when I received the news that the pupils 
I had stipulated for were found and awaiting me, and 
I was summoned to keep my promise. Eeassured 



108 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

as to the financial prospects of the future, and 
attracted powerfully by the hope of fostering the 
taste for music in so large a community, I proceeded 
to change my residence for a second time in the 
course of three months. 

I left many friends behind, amongst whom I must 
name dear old Moscheles, in his younger days the 
most brilliant of pianists, many of whose compositions, 
especially his studies, will remain as standard works 
for all time. Moscheles had often been at my house 
in Paris, even daily during the few months which he 
spent there, occupied with the composition of his 
second pianoforte sonata for four hands. I have 
indeed reason to remember that sonata, for whenever 
he had added twenty or twenty-four bars to the un- 
finished work, he came to me with the beautifully 
written manuscript to try them over. And in order 
to give them their due effect, as he said, we had 
always to begin from the introduction and to go 
through the whole sonata until the new portion was 
reached, so that for every twenty new bars in the 
finale, we played the introduction, the allegro, the 
andante, the scherzo, and the finale, so far as it was 
ready. Often I was fetched from my house even as 
late as midnight by the amiable and charming 
Madame Moscheles, because ' they had a few friends 
with them who were anxious to hear the sonata.' I 
must have played it a few hundred times in this 
mutilated way before, on its completion, Moscheles 
gave a grand evening party at Kalkbrenner's house to 
produce it before the artistic and literary world. It 



KECEPTION IN MANCHESTER 109 

met with success, but lias never eclipsed the first 
sonata, which remains superior to it in freshness of 
ideas. I am still glad that I never showed any signs of 
impatience during this long trial ; ever since I battled 
as a boy with Moscheles's ' Variations sur la Marche 
d'Alexandre,' and his G minor concerto, I had 
venerated his name and felt happy and proud to be 
chosen by and associated with him on this occasion. 
His good feeling towards me remained the same when 
I came to London, of which he gave me a proof by 
sending his eldest daughter to me as a pupil ; at 
which I felt elated and which was not without a 
certain influence on public opinion. Benedict, Stern- 
dale Bennett, Davison, Henry Broadwood, that prince 
of pianoforte makers, were amongst the other friends 
that I quitted unwillingly, but with the hope of seeing 
soon again. 

In Manchester I was most kindly received, espe- 
cially by the German colony, which was prosperous 
and important. Preceding my small family by a few 
weeks in order better to prepare for their installation, 
I was introduced in a short time to most of the 
notabilities of the town, went through a succession of 
dinner parties, and, in short, was * made much of as 
the phrase goes. My pupils were ladies of the most 
various ages, many of them having evidently joined 
the ranks merely for the sake of making up the 
requisite number. Their accomplishments were as 
various as their ages, but I found goodwill and 
perseverance amongst all of them. One pupil gave 
me a great surprise. She belonged to a family con- 



110 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

sidered the most musical in the neighbourhood, and 
brought as a test of her powers a sonata for piano 
and violin. When I suggested that a piece for the 
piano alone would be more to the purpose, she said 
this was a piece of which all at home were very fond, 
and she hoped I would allow her to play it for me. 
In answer to my question if her father or a brother 
played the violin part, she said, ' Oh, no, I always 
play it alone.' Now the copy she had did not 
contain the violin part, and I began to feel some 
curiosity as to how she would deal with certain parts 
of the composition principally allotted to the absent 
instrument. The sonata was a simple one by Mozart, 
and the lady began to play it most correctly. Soon 
she came to a series of eight bars in which the absent 
violin had all the melody and the piano nothing but 
an old-fashioned accompaniment in broken chords. 
She played them attentively, and after four bars of 
this unmeaning twaddle, I heard her say to herself 
with deep emotion, ' Beautiful ! ' Shortly after she 
omitted about twenty bars, without apparent reason, 
and when I asked, ' Why don't you play this part ? ' 
she gave a never-to-be-forgotten answer, ' Oh, that is 
in a minor key, and papa does not like minor.' How 
musical must have been the family capable of 
expunging from every piece of music all the modula- 
tions into a minor key ! I did not try to convert the 
papa, but the daughter had to put up with pieces in 
minor and soon grew fond of them. 

Not long after my arrival in Manchester I had 
occasion to hear one of the concerts of the oldest and 



THE GENTLEMEN'S CONCERTS 111 

most important musical society of the town, called 
' The Gentlemen's Concerts,' from the fact that it was 
originally founded in 1774, I believe, by amateurs, 
twenty-six in number, who constituted what may be 
called the orchestra, but who all and every one of 
them played the flute ! In course of time other in- 
struments were added, and in 1848 the modern 
orchestra had been completed for more than a score 
or two of years. The society was wealthy, would-be 
subscribers having generally to wait three years before 
room could be made for them ; in consequence every 
artist of renown who had visited England had been 
engaged, and the older programmes of the concerts 
are remarkably rich in celebrated names. At the 
concert which I attended, Grisi, Mario, and Lablache 
sang ; but the orchestra ! oh, the orchestra ! I was 
fresh from the ' Concerts du Conservatoire,' from 
Hector Berlioz's orchestra, and I seriously thought of 
packing up and leaving Manchester, so that I might 
not have to endure a second of these wretched per- 
formances. But when I hinted at this my friends 
gave me to understand that I was expected to change 
all this to accomplish a revolution, in fact, and 
begged me to have a little patience. At the next 
concert I was engaged to play the E flat concerto by 
Beethoven, and Mr. Zeugher Herrmann was invited 
to come over from Liverpool to conduct it, which he 
did with great skill, accomplishing all that could be 
accomplished with the unsatisfactory material he had 
to deal with. During the same month of August 

o o 

Chopin came, played, but was little understood. He 



112 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

remained a few days only, then went to Scotland on 
a visit to Miss Stirling, a pupil to whom he dedicated 
several of his works. The Scotch climate tried his 
weak constitution severely and hastened his death. 

In the winter of 1848-49 I ventured upon a 
series of six chamber-music concerts, assisted by two 
modest local artists ; but in spite of the efforts of my 
friends, who canvassed most energetically for sub- 
scribers, their total number reached only sixty-seven ; 
the sale of single tickets for the first concert amounted 
to three, and to a few more for each one of the suc- 
ceeding concerts. These were small beginnings in- 
deed, but did not dishearten me. Every item in the 
programme was new to the small audience and received 
with appreciation. I felt that there was a whole 
musical education to make, and devoted all my ener- 
gies to the task. When I began a second series in 
November 1849 the subscribers numbered 193, and 
by general desire I had to add a short series of four 
concerts in February and March 1850. During that 
winter Ernst and Piatti made their first appearance 
in Manchester at these concerts, and from that time 
remained identified with them. The summer season 
of '49 I spent in London, where I was engaged to 
play at the whole series of the concerts given by the 
Musical Union. My choice of pieces was then un- 
fettered, and it was a pleasure to me to introduce 
many works unknown to the audience until then. 
Among these was Schubert's trio in E flat, the per- 
formance of which was connected with an amusing 
incident. Mr. Ella had written an analysis of this 



JENNY LIND 113 

work, to be inserted in the programme, in which he 
had dismissed the ' Menuetto ' with the short sentence, 
' This movement is not very interesting.' When he 
showed me the proof on the day previous to the con- 
cert, I remonstrated and said he would probably find 
that this ' Menuetto ' was the gem of the whole trio. 
He replied that he had carefully read it through, and 
that it had not struck him as particularly remarkable. 
We had a short discussion about it, but I felt I could 
not convince him. The conversation turned upon 
other things for some time, when just before taking 
leave he referred once more to the ' Menuetto,' and 
said : ' Well, I do not mind making a slight change 
in the paragraph you object to.' He showed me the 
proof again, and I read to my surprise : ' This move- 
ment is ... very interesting.' The change was indeed 
slight only one word omitted but it could hardly 
have been greater. 

On my return to Manchester after the summer 
season of 1849 I found the town in a state of excite- 
ment, caused by the announcement that Jenny Lind 
would give a concert for the benefit of the infirmary. 
She was then at the height of her popularity, had 
never sung in Manchester before, and it was natural, 
therefore, that every ticket should be sold long before 
her arrival. The hall was consequently crowded, and 
I was accommodated with a seat on the platform. I 
had never heard her before and my curiosity was at 
the highest pitch, but the reality surpassed all my 
expectations. Never had I been moved by any singer 
as by her, and never again shall be, I feel certain. 

I 



114 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Her first air was the grand scena from ' Der Frey- 
schtitz,' and never shall I forget the impression it 
made upon me. Her singing in the first recitative of 
the long high note with the descent which follows, 
npon the words ' Welch' stille Nacht ' nearly suffocated 
me. I was sobbing audibly, and yet this extraordinary 
effect was produced by the simplest means. It was 
indeed true art coupled with enthusiasm and uncon- 
scious inspiration. Added to this there was a per- 
fection of execution which was itself a marvel, and I 
can say without fear of contradiction that we shall 
never hear her like again. Shortly after this concert 
she gave two more on her own account, which were 
equally crowded. Since then I have heard her often 
and often, and my admiration always remained un- 
altered. The concerts in Manchester were followed 
by a short tour through the provinces, during which 
I was engaged as pianist, and had occasion therefore 
not only to revel in her singing, but also to witness 
the enthusiasm with which she was received every- 
where, and which sometimes led to great incon- 
venience. Crowds of people were always waiting at 
the door of her hotel to get a glimpse of her, and the 
police had often to be called for her protection. At 
Worcester, on one occasion, I had entered a carriage 
with her and the horses had drawn us about two yards 
when the pressure of the crowd suddenly broke both 
the windows, the splinters of the glass flying about to 
our consternation. I got a nasty cut. She remained 
fortunately uninjured, but we had to return to the 
hotel, and after that I was shy of the honour of 



CONDUCTOR OF THE GENTLEMEN'S CONCERTS 115 

driving out with her. Whether her judgment in 
music kept pace with her marvellous genius as a 
singer I have not been able to decide, for I have seen 
her cry when hearing a beautiful masterpiece well 
sung by a good chorus, and seen her cry also when 
some very commonplace ditty was given by the same 
chorus. 

At the end of the year 1849 the conductorship of 
the ' Gentlemen's Concerts ' was offered to me, and I 
accepted it on the condition that the band should be 
dismissed and its reorganisation left entirely in my 
hands. This was the first step towards the position 
which Manchester now holds in the domain of 
orchestral music. I had then to be satisfied, how- 
ever, with attracting to Manchester a certain number 
of first-rate instrumentalists, mostly from London, 
with displacing others, changing the position of the 
instruments which had been absurd the double 
basses, for instance, standing in front and recruiting 
in the neighbourhood the best talent available. The 
result was a good one, much approved of by the sub- 
scribers, and from that time the cultivation of orches- 
tral music in Manchester has been my chief delight 
and remains so still. That the taste for chamber 
music began to grow and that Ernst and Piatti were 
often seen and heard at my concerts I have already 
related. During the winter of 1849-50 I proposed 
to Ernst that we should give a similar concert in 
Liverpool. He readily assented, and, relying upon 
his great reputation and my rising one, we promised 
ourselves great success, engaged a good violoncellist, 

I 2 



116 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

made an excellent programme and gave the concert. 
The audience consisted of eleven people, four of whom 
were reporters ! Such was the beginning of my 
acquaintance with that nourishing town, with the 
musical life of which I have since become so inti- 
mately associated. 

The circle of my acquaintances in Manchester 
had by this time become so extended, and I had 
come across so many amateurs with fair voices and 
an ear for music, that in 1850 I was able to found 
the ' St. Cecilia Society,' in imitation of the German 
' Gesang-Verein,' which dwelt in my memory from the 
days of my childhood. It consisted of ladies and 
gentlemen of the best society, at first about fifty in 
number, who met weekly for the study of choral 
works under my direction, and found such pleasure 
in it, and worked so well, that soon these meetings 
became a source of great pleasure to them and to 
me. The society grew from year to year, and con- 
tributed not a little to spread that intelligent love 
of the art which distinguished Manchester. I con- 
ducted it for many years, till my engagements be- 
came too numerous, and I had reluctantly to hand it 
over to my friend Edward Hecht, an excellent and 
thoroughly reliable musician, who later on became 
my chorus-master, and rendered me most valuable 
services. Death snatched him away in the prime of 
life, but he is most affectionately remembered by all 
who knew him. 

Pupils came to me in increasing numbers, many 
giving me extreme satisfaction by their real disposi- 




Wlkr*ButB,Ph,S 



Alter ..in iiil-tunnting l'\' Victor Motte 




A MUSICAL CLE1IGYMAN 117 

tion and love for music ; others there were who, like 
the young lady with the father who hated minor keys, 
offered me much food for amusement. Of these I 
will give only one specimen, which will stand for 
many. 

A clergyman of middle age appeared one day 
at my house with the request that I should give 
him some lessons. He had brought a friend a total 
stranger to me in order that the friend might intro- 
duce him. This seemed odd, but did not prepare 
me for all the oddities that were to follow. Day and 
hour having been duly fixed, he came at the appointed 
time, armed with a music book, entered my study, 
and without any greeting stood before me smiling. 
After a few moments, seeing my astonishment, he 
pointed with his finger to his throat, which I took 
for an indication that he had lost his voice. I 
expressed my regret at this, when he said, ' No, no ; 
I have only taken off the badge.' I then understood 
that on coming for a music lesson he had judged proper 
not to appear in the character of a clergyman, and 
had exchanged the customary white necktie for a 
black one. I accordingly invited him to play some- 
thing in order that I might know how far he had 
already progressed. ' Yes, yes, immediately,' he said ; 
6 but before I do so I wish you to look at the list of 
my deficiencies, which I have prepared in order that 
you might know at once how to deal with me.' He 
handed me a sheet of paper, the margins of which he 
had ornamented with arabesques, evidently whilst 
musing on what he would have to write down, which 



118 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

paper I have carefully preserved up to the present 
day, and which runs as follows : 

LIST OF DEFICIENCIES. 

1 . Deficient in the shake. 

2. Deficient in general execution. 

3. Very deficient in the performance of scales, both dia- 
tonic and chromatic. 

4. Deficient in rapidity of fingers. 

5. Deficient in equality of touch. 

6. Third finger very weak. 

7. Extreme nervousness when playing before company. 

Questions. 

1 . How many hours (a day) ought I to practise ? 

2. What style of music ought I to study ? 

Having pocketed this remarkable document, I 
renewed my request for the performance of some 
piece or other, and he proposed to play Beethoven's 
Sonata with the Funeral March, contained in the 
book he had brought with him. Sitting down to the 
piano, he looked attentively at the music and then 
put his fingers down upon two wrong notes two 
E naturals. ' E flat,' I said. He held fast to the 
wrong notes, looked at the music, at his fingers, up 
and down several times, then turned his head towards 
me with a smile, said, ' To be sure,' and then removed 
his fingers from the wrong to the right notes. In 
the very next bar a similar mistake occurred. I 
corrected it ; then came the same operation of look- 
ing up and down, the same smile, and the same ' To 
be sure.' This having been repeated four or five 
times in as many bars, I remained silent afterwards, 



AN ECCENTRIC PUPIL 119 

thinking only of how to get rid of so unpropitious a 
pupil without giving him offence. He struggled on 
through about half the first page, which took a con- 
siderable time, then suddenly closed the book, held 
it before my eyes, and said, with another smile, 
4 Is not that nicely bound ? ' I assented ; and ' I got 
it bound when I was at Cambridge,' was the infor- 
mation he gave me. Ee-opening the book, he began 
again at the identical note in the middle of a bar 
at which he had left off, and after another ten 
minutes' stumbling he reached at last the end of the 
first page. By that time I had made up my mind, 
and told him politely that he was not advanced 
enough to become one of my pupils, and advised him 
to go to some other teacher. He was sorry, but 
submitted. Before leaving he said there was one 
piece he was most anxious to learn, and ' did I think 
he could master it ? ' ' Which piece ? ' I inquired ; 
and ' A Fantasia on the Prophet, by Liszt,' was the 
answer ; to which I could only reply : ' Not in this 
world ! ' During this last colloquy he had been 
putting on his gloves, which gave rise to the following 
little dialogue. Holding them up to my eyes, he 
said : ' They are very bad.' I : ' They seem to have 
been of service.' ' Yes,' said he. 'I am a poor 
clergyman, and I paid for them 3 fr. 75 c., so I 
must wear them a little longer.' To get away from 
this somewhat painful topic, I asked if he had been 
in France lately. ' Oh, no,' was the reply ; ' I never 
was in France.' ' In Belgium, then ? ' ' Oh, no, 
never.' ' Well, you told me just now you had paid 



120 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

3 fr. 75 c. for the gloves ; where did you get them? ' 
' Oh, I bought them in Market Street ; but,' with 
another good-natured smile, ' you are a Frenchman.' 
After which kind remark he looked at his watch and 
said : ' I must go quickly, I have to preach.' I 
resisted the temptation to follow him and hear his 
sermon, which in spite of his musical peculiarities 
may, I hope, have been a good one. 

Another, this time a real pupil of mine, a gentle- 
man of undoubted musical abilities, gave me a shock 
of another kind on one occasion. He played very 
well and was extremely fond of Chopin's music, 
playing many of his pieces, even some of the very 
difficult ones. I brought him the sad tidings of 
Chopin's death. ' Capital ! ' he exclaimed ; ' now I 
can have his complete works bound ! ' 

My life now became a very busy one ; added to my 
duties at the ' Gentlemen's Concerts,' many London 
engagements, and hosts of pupils, there came in the 
winter of 1855 the offer to conduct a series of operas 
at the Theatre Eoyal, Manchester. A very excellent 
troupe had been engaged, comprising Mme. Euders- 
dorff, Mme. Caradori, Mile. Agnes Biiry, Herr 
Eeichardt, Carl Formes, and other remarkable 
vocalists. Most of the operas were given in German, 
and it was happiness to me to conduct really first- 
rate performances of ' Fidelio,' ' Don Giovanni,' ' Der 
Freyschutz,' 'Die Entflihrung aus dem Serail,' alter- 
nately with more modern works such as ' Eobert le 
Diable,' ' Les Huguenots,' ' La Favorita,' and others. 
Madame Eudersdorff was one of the most dramatic 



OPERA IN MANCHESTER 121 

and accomplished singers I have ever listened to, and 
achieved a real triumph as Leonora in 'Fidelio.' 
Formes was at the zenith of his powers and equally 
admirable as Leporello or as Don Giovanni. Keich- 
ardt was a charming tenor who sang Belmonte 
in ' Die Entflihrung ' to perfection, and all were 
musicians to the core, having their heart in their 
work. 

The public appreciated our efforts, but neverthe- 
less the pecuniary success of the season was not 
complete, the expenses being too great, and daily 
performances during several months being more than 
a town like Manchester could digest. The obstinacy 
of the entrepreneur and proprietor of the theatre, John 
Knowles, who never listened to a counsel however 
well-meant or useful, was also a drawback. His 
peculiarities were many and sometimes amusing ; 
thus, when Formes, then one of the foremost singers 

o 

in any country, sang the part of Don Giovanni and 
insisted upon having a bottle of real champagne in 
the finale, we could never bring Knowles to consent to 
give it ; he would rather have dispensed with the per- 
formance altogether. The consequence was that on 
such evenings I came to the theatre with a bottle 
under my cloak, and was probably called a fool for 
my pains by the excellent Knowles. On one occasion 
' Lucrezia Borgia ' was to be performed, the numerous 
minor parts in which were distributed amongst the 
best of the chorus singers. Coming to the last 
rehearsal on the morning of the performance I was 
met by the stage-manager, who told me with a long 



122 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

face that, by order of Mr. Knowles, the doors of the 
theatre would be closed that evening, and no 
* Lucrezia Borgia ' performed. On my inquiring for 
the reason of this totally unexpected step he an- 
swered, 'All the nobles want half-a-crown apiece.' The 
nobles meant the minor parts, and there were about 
eight of them. I satisfied them out of my own purse 
and the performance took place, much to the satis- 
faction of Mr. Knowles, who, however, never alluded 
to my interference. During this same performance a 
perplexing accident occurred, nearly causing a break- 
down. Formes at the last rehearsal had earnestly 
asked me to make a cut of eight bars in one of his 
airs, to which I had assented. The cut was duly 
marked in all the orchestral parts and observed in 
the evening ; but, lo ! Formes had forgotten all about 
it, made no cut, and sang the eight bars to which 
there was no accompaniment. To jump back with a 
whole band was an impossibility ; all its members 
were however immediately aware that something was 
wrong and had their eyes upon me. For a moment 
I wondered what was to be done ; but soon there 
occurred a chord upon which I seized, made the 
band hold it out pianissimo and allowed Formes to 
sing to it what remained of the eight bars, as a kind 
of cadenza, until he had rejoined us, when we jogged 
on together again. The best of the joke was that he 
was not aware of the trick he had played us, or that 
there had been anything unusual ; such a thing would, 
however, not be possible with any but Italian music 
of the Bellini and Donizetti school. 



PIANOFORTE RECITALS 123 

From the year 1850 I had commenced to give 
pianoforte recitals, until then unknown in England. 
In London I gave them for several years at my own 
house, until I transferred them to St. James's Hall. 
In other towns I chose the most suitable concert- 
rooms, and found willing ears nearly everywhere. 
The programmes comprised every kind of pianoforte 
music, and if at first I avoided the more abstruse 
works, such as the later sonatas of Beethoven, I soon 
discarded this precaution and played whatever I 
wished to make known. Beethoven, Mozart, Haydn, 
Bach, Weber, Hummel, Dussek, Scarlatti, Kameau, 
Mendelssohn, Schubert, Schumann, Chopin, Heller, 
and others were put under contribution, and all the 
pleasure which the evenings at the Guiberts' house in 
Paris had given me was renewed on a larger and 
more public scale. Of the towns besides London and 
Manchester which I have thus visited and visit still, 
there is none to which I have gone more constantly 
and with more pleasure than Edinburgh, or where I 
have found a more intelligent and music-loving 
public. Friendships formed there have still further 
endeared the town to me, and amongst these friends 
stands out conspicuously Georg Lichtenstein, who, 
after being aide-de-camp to Kossuth, was exiled from 
Austria, and after months of trouble had settled down 
in Edinburgh as music-master. He is no more, and I 
am therefore at liberty to say that it would be diffi- 
cult to find a more accomplished, versatile, genial, 
and, above all, upright and kind-hearted man than he 
was. His conversation, always full of charm, and 



124 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

touching often upon the political events in Hungary 
at the time of the insurrection, in which he had been 
an actor, has made many an hour delightful and 
memorable to me. To his kindness in correcting the 
proofs of my local programmes I owe it that they 
were free from blunders, which was often not the case 
in other towns, where I had not an opportunity of 
revising them myself. Thus on one occasion when I 
had sent a programme to Scarborough, which in- 
cluded a ' Caprice brillant sur la Truite (Schubert), 
by Heller,' I found it printed to my horror as 
' Caprice brillant sur La Trinite ' I 

In the winter 1852-53 the number of sub- 
scribers to my ' Chamber-Music Concerts ' in Man- 
chester had largely increased. I therefore constituted 
them into a ' Chamber-Music Society,' with an influ- 
ential committee, keeping the entire management in 
my own hands. The room in the old town hall, very 
favourable for music of the kind, was not very large, 
holding about 450 seats. These were all subscribed 
for, and there was a list of from 80 to 100 would-be 
subscribers who had to wait for vacancies. Such 
gigantic strides had the love of music made in three 
years. The visits of Ernst, Molique, Saint on, Vieux- 
temps, became now regular, and Piatti was the violon- 
cellist at all the concerts. The intimacy with these 
men, great artists all, forms one of my happiest 
recollections. They were always guests in my own 
house, and we revelled in music. Good old Molique 
with his broken English, the meaning of which had 
often to be guessed at, was a subject of constant, 



MOLIQUE 125 

harmless amusement. As we were taking a drive to- 
gether one day, Molique, thinking the driver had lost 
his way, leaned out of the cab and shouted : ' Coach- 
roan, who are we ? ' translating the German ' wo * 
(where) by ' who.' He got the immediate reply : 
' Well, sir, if you don't know who you are I cannot 
tell you.' 

Molique had a horror of cats, but, strange to say, 
our cat was attracted by his playing and was generally 
found sitting before the door of his room when he 
practised, which greatly disturbed him when he 
opened it, and could not muster courage to pass out 
or to drive it away. Piatti, who occupied an adjoin- 
ing room, never failed before retiring to bed to catch 
the cat and hide it under Molique's bed. When 
Molique discovered the intruder a most ludicrous 
chase began, lasting sometimes an hour and more, as 
he did not dare to approach the cat, but tried to 
drive it away by merely hissing at it. 

Molique was a great executant, knowing absolutely 
no difficulties, finding easy what gave great trouble 
to all other violinists ; but his style was polished and 
cold, and he never carried his public away with him. 
Ernst was all passion and fire, regulated by his 
reverence for, and clear understanding of, the master- 
pieces he had to interpret. Sainton was extremely 
elegant and finished in his phrasing, but vastly in- 
ferior to the others I have named. Vieuxtemps, 
whose appearances were more rare, was an admirable 
violinist and a great musician, whose compositions 
deserve a much higher place than it is the fashion 



126 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

now to accord to them. Of Piatti, the incomparable, 
I need not say a word beyond this, that during an 
intimate friendship, extending over forty-six years, 
my admiration of the artist and my love of the man 
have gone on constantly increasing. He is the only 
one remaining to us of the above-named quintet ; the 
others are now listening to the harmony of the 
spheres. 

The Chamber-Music Society was dissolved in 
1858, when the institution of my orchestral concerts 
no longer left me time to devote the attention to it 
which it imperatively required. The five years from 
1852 to '57 were uneventful; the summer seasons 
were spent in London with my family, which had 
rapidly increased, the autumns and winters in Man- 
chester, leaving time, however, for my peregrinations 
to provincial towns, both in England and Scotland. 
During my annual sojourns in London I made the 
acquaintance of Eobert Browning and his gifted 
wife, who were both passionate lovers of music, and 
especially of Beethoven's sonatas, which I had often 
the privilege of playing to them at my own house in 
Mansfield Street. Browning formed an exception to 
the rule that poets and literary men care less for 
music than painters, in whom the love of our art 
seems almost invariably to be inborn. Thackeray 
and Dickens had a certain liking for music, but 
Tennyson listened to it with great indifference, and 
his loud talk whilst I was playing some superlatively 
fine work has now and then ' agace ' my nerves. 
Browning knew the whole literature of music, had 



BEOWNING'S MUSICAL KNOWLEDGE 127 

an unfailing judgment, and sometimes drew my 
attention to pieces by older masters which had escaped 
my notice and which I have always found worth 
knowing. He must have been a good pianist himself, 
but I could never prevail upon him to give me a 
proof of his powers as such. I enjoyed his friendship 
to the end of his days, and he endeared himself to me 
especially through the kindness with which he for- 
gave my incapacity to understand his poetry an 
incapacity which I frankly confessed to him more 
than once. 

Meyerbeer I had the pleasure of meeting again in 
London, admiring, as before in Paris, his high-bred 
manners, his cultured esprit, invariable tact, and great 
savoir-faire. One day my friend Chorley had a small 
dinner party, composed of the then Lady Hastings, 
two other ladies, Meyerbeer, Costa, and myself. The 
conversation fell on Mozart's ' Zauberflote,' which had 
been given at Covent Garden a few days before. 
Lady Hastings had not enjoyed the performance and 
abused the work in unmeasured terms. Especially 
was she angry with the recitatives ; ' those intermi- 
nable, monotonous, unmeaning recitatives,' she called 
them. Meyerbeer looked puzzled, Mozart's opera 
containing no recitatives, and asked quietly : ' Quels 
sont done les recitatifs dont Lady Hastings parle ? ' 
' Us sont de moi, monsieur,' said Costa, and Lady 
Hastings began to talk of something else. 

Spohr also visited London during one of the 
seasons I spent there, and I was happy to be able to 
speak with him once more of my childhood, and to 



128 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

express my gratitude for the kindness he had shown 
to me when I was a boy. He attended one of the 
concerts of the Musical Union at which I played one 
of his pianoforte trios and also a sonata by Beethoven, 
the one in D major, Op. 10, No. 3. After the concert 
he came into the artists' room, said some flattering 
things to me about my performance of the latter, and 
added, ' a fine sonata ; ' then, with a tone of astonish- 
ment, ' und gar nicht veraltet ' (not antiquated) ; a 
remark with which I totally agreed, but which struck 
me as very superfluous. 

In 1856 Manchester began to prepare for the 
' Art Treasures Exhibition,' which was to be held in 
the following year, the musical part of which was 
entrusted to me. The committee Sir Thomas Fair- 
bairn (then Mr. Fairbairn) was chairman acted 
with unparalleled energy, and succeeded in bringing 
together a marvellous collection of masterpieces of 
the different arts, such as I believe has never been 
equalled since. Her Majesty the Queen visited the 
exhibition, and how successful its whole career was, 
what hosts of distinguished visitors it drew to Man- 
chester until its close, is too well known to dilate 
upon here. I was most anxious that music should 
hold its own, and not suffer by comparison with the 
other arts. To this end a first-rate orchestra was 
absolutely necessary, an orchestra better than the 
one of the ' Gentlemen's Concerts,' which, though a 
vast improvement upon what it had been before, left 
still much to desire. Fortunately the committee 
agreed with my views, placed ample means at my 



ART TREASURES EXHIBITION 129 

disposal, and I succeeded, not without considerable 
trouble, in bringing together a thoroughly satisfactory 
band by engaging competent performers from London, 
Paris, Germany, Holland, Belgium, and Italy, in 
addition to the best of our local players. Concerts 
took place every afternoon, but I conducted only on 
Thursdays. They were much enjoyed by crowds of 
visitors, and soon became one of the chief attractions 
of the exhibition. Thousands and thousands of people 
from the northern counties there heard a symphony 
for the first time, and it was interesting to watch how 
the appreciation of such works grew keener and 
keener almost with every week. The whole exhi- 
bition was like a beautiful dream, justifying its 
motto, ' A thing of beauty is a joy for ever ! ' and 
its elevating and refining inHuence cannot be over- 
estimated. As usual, the Catalogue had its humorous 
points by accidental interchanges of numbers : thus 
a picture of King Lear on his death-bed was described 
as ' There is life in the old dog yet,' and you could 
daily hear the remark ' How true ! ' when passing it. 
Another, representing a madman sitting stark naked 
on the bare ground with his arms clenched round 
his knees, was called ' Portrait of Lord John Eussell.' 
An old man was heard to remark, ' Probably when 
he was out of office ! ' 

To this exhibition I owe my intimate friendship 
with Eichard Doyle Dicky Doyle, as he was called 
familiarly the genial, gifted humorist and delightful 
companion. My acquaintance with him had been 
slight, but sufficient to warrant my inviting him to 

K 



130 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

be our guest for a few days, and so to see the 
exhibition. He came, promised to stay three days, 
and remained two months, to our intense delight. 
Daily we studied the marvellous pictures together, 
and he opened my eyes to many beauties which I 
might have passed by. He was no less quick in 
seizing upon any comical figure that presented itself 
in the motley crowd, and many were the pen-and-ink 
drawings which in remembrance of them he put on 
paper during our quiet evenings at home, and which 
I preserve carefully. An oddity in the railway 
arrangements during that time I cannot leave un- 
noticed : a single ticket from London to Manchester 
cost then 33s., but a return ticket (from London to 
Manchester and back) cost only 21s., and several 
times have I seen people, who in ignorance had taken 
single tickets, exchange them, when enlightened, for 
return tickets, and receive 12s. into the bargain. The 
ways of railway directors are mysterious sometimes. 

When the exhibition closed its doors in October, 
1857, the orchestra which I had taken so much 
trouble to form, and which had given such satisfac- 
tion, was on the point of being dispersed to the four 
points of the compass, never to be heard again in 
Manchester. This was excessively painful to me, 
and to prevent it I determined to give weekly 
concerts during the autumn and winter season at my 
own risk and peril, and to engage the whole band, 
trusting to the now awakened taste for music for 
success and perhaps remuneration. The necessary 
preparations retarded the execution of this project 



FIRST ORCHESTRAL CONCERTS 131 

until January 30, 1858, when the first concert took 
place before a scanty audience. I was not dis- 
heartened, for I remembered how the Chamber Music 
Society had grown from small beginnings, and judged 
rightly that the crowds who had thronged the exhi- 
bition did not specially come for the music, and that 
concerts offering nothing but music, and at neces- 
sarily higher prices of admission, stood upon another 
footing. I felt that the whole musical education of 
the public had to be undertaken, and to the dismay of 
my friends I resolved to give thirty concerts, and either 
to win over a public or to fail ignominiously. The 
c Gentlemen's Concerts ' were an exclusive society ; 
none but subscribers were admitted and no tickets 
sold. Before my advent they had never even pub- 
lished the programmes of their concerts, and the 
directors had only done so since 1850 at my earnest 
request, because I objected to conducting concerts of 
this clandestine sort. To the public at large sym- 
phonies and overtures were therefore terra incognita, 
and it was not to be expected that they would flock 
to them at once. 

Beethoven's symphony in C major headed the 
first programme and was vehemently applauded by 
the meagre audience. The loss upon the concert was 
a heavy one, and was followed by similar losses week 
after week, until my friends were debating whether 
for the sake of my family I ought not to be locked 
up, and I myself began to feel rather uneasy. It was 
not before nearly half the series of thirty concerts 
had been given that things took another aspect ; the 

K 2 



132 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

audience gradually became more numerous and more 
appreciative ; at last full houses succeeded each 
other, and the day after the thirtieth concert my 
managers and dear friends, Messrs. Forsyth Brothers, 
brought me, with the statement of receipts and 
expenses, ten brand-new threepenny bits, the profits 
on the whole series a penny per concert ! Perfectly 
satisfied with this result, which I considered most 
encouraging, I at once made arrangements for a 
second series to be given during the winter season 
1858-59. It consisted of twenty-seven concerts, but 
for the third series I reduced the number to twenty, 
and opened a subscription list, which soon was 
adequately filled, showing that high-class orchestral 
music had taken hold of the public and that my ven- 
tures of the previous years had borne fruit. Since then 
those concerts have continued to prosper and have 
now reached their thirty-eighth season. The or- 
chestra, at first only sixty strong, has gradually been 
increased, until for the last ten years it has numbered 
upwards of one hundred performers, and added to it 
is a chorus of three hundred singers of uncommon ex- 
cellence, for the performance of oratorios and secular 
choral works. It is not my intention to write a history 
of these concerts, I shall only allude now and then to 
some of their more salient features, such as the pro- 
duction of new or neglected works ; but I can look 
with a certain pride at the catalogue of works per- 
formed up to the present time (summer 1895), which 
comprises 32 oratorios, 71 other choral works, 
110 symphonies, 214 overtures, 205 miscellaneous 



ENGLISH OPERA, 1860-1861 133 

orchestral pieces, 183 concertos with orchestral 
accompaniments, and minor pieces without number. 
In 1860-61 the concerts had to suffer an interruption, 
as I was called upon to conduct a season of English 
opera (organised by Mr. E. T. Smith) at Her Majesty's 
Theatre in London, which counted Mmes. Sherring- 
ton and Parepa, Messrs. Sims Eeeves and Santley, 
among its artists. 

The most remarkable feature of the season was 
the production of two new English operas, the 
' Amber Witch,' by Wallace, and ' Eobin Hood,' by 
Macfarren, neither of which however took hold of the 
public in spite of some very clever and some charm- 
ing pieces admirably sung. Both operas are for- 
gotten now. Other works such as the ' Bohemian 
Girl,' ' Fra Diavolo,' in English dress, and ' La Eeine 
Topaze,' by Masse, also given in English, were more 
successful and drew larger audiences. All were sung 
and acted to perfection. One performance of the 
first-named of these operas I remember still with 
considerable amusement on account of an odd inci- 
dent. It had been substituted for another work in 
which Mr. Sims Eeeves had the principal part, this 
gentleman having sent word in the morning that he 
was suffering from hoarseness. When in the evening 
I was crossing the stage to go to the conductor's desk 
the call-boy ran after me shouting, ' Mr. Halle, we 
have forgotten the child ! ' This very child has to be 
seen sitting at the window when the curtain goes up, 
and in ten minutes I had to commence the overture. 
' Go, fetch one quick,' was my answer. ' All right,' 



134 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

said he, disappeared, and before three minutes had 
elapsed he came back with a struggling girl, about 
five years old, in his arms, and followed by an apple- 
woman whose daughter he had unceremoniously 
captured in the Haymarket. The child was carried 
off to be dressed whilst the mother was pacified by the 
stage manager, and I was able to begin the overture at 
the appointed time. At its conclusion I rang up the 
curtain with some diffidence, but there sat the child, 
neatly dressed, at the window with the nurse, and we 
proceeded quietly with the opera. In the first scene 
where the Polish Count (Santley) takes leave of his 
daughter before his departure from home, the little 
girl is brought to him and he has to sing a touching 
and rather lengthy farewell ballad. So the child 
came down on to the stage, but the moment she saw 
the foot- lights and the public behind she yelled with 
fright, screaming at the top of her voice. Santley, 
however, was equal to the occasion. He knelt down, 
threw his large cloak round the girl, took her head 
under his arm and kept it in chancery, all the time 
singing his ballad with the utmost pathos, unmindful 
of the kicking feet and struggles going on under the 
cloak, hardly perceived by the public. Madame 
Parepa, a most excellent vocalist with a splendid 
powerful voice, was of a colossal size, which led to an 
amusing scene on the occasion of the performance of 
' Fra Diavolo,' in which she took the part of Zerlina. 
When in the bedroom scene Zerlina undresses and 
remains clad in white, Madame Parepa looked simply 
enormous. Standing before the looking-glass, admir- 



MADAME PAREPA AND MADAME SHEREINGTOK 135 

ing herself, she has in the English version the 
unfortunate words to "say : 

There really is not much amiss 

When you can boast of a figure such as this. 

The moment she had uttered them the whole house 
roared with laughter, renewed again and again. 

o 7 O O 

After the performance Mine. Parepa asked me 
innocently if I knew what had happened to make 
people laugh so much, being totally unconscious that 
she was herself the cause of the hilarity. 

Another unrehearsed effect enlivened one of the 
performances of 'Eobin Hood.' Mme. Sherrington 
was Maid Marian, and Mr. Sims Eeeves Eobin 
Hood. In the last scene Maid Marian brings the 
reprieve to Eobin Hood, condemned to death, and 
waving it rushes at him from the farthest end of the 
stage. On this occasion Mme. Sherrington came 
down with such impetuosity upon Mr. Sims Eeeves 
that he, unprepared for the onslaught, was toppled 
over, his head coming close to the footlights, and Maid 
Marian on his back. Unable to shake her off at once, 
he raised his head and blew with all his might into 
the footlights which were nearly singeing him, thereby 
causing an hilarity amongst the audience sufficient to 
play havoc with the concluding scene of the opera. 

The season being brought to a close, I returned 
to Manchester with the intention of producing during 
the following winter some interesting and striking 
novelty at my concerts. After a good deal of cogita- 
tion I fixed upon some of Grluck's operas, banished 
from the stage, for which therefore the concert room 



1-"G LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

would be the proper place. ' Iphigenie en Tauride r 
was the one I chose first, remembering how the 
dramatic power of the music had in my younger days 
in Paris drawn tears from my eyes when I was simply 
perusing the score. From this self-same score I had 
to copy the whole of the orchestral parts, none being 
printed, and Gluck's scores being so carelessly 
engraved, with so many and such extraordinary 
abbreviations that to confide the task to an ordinary 
copyist was out of the question. Chorley undertook 
the translation of the libretto, Messrs. Chappell pub- 
lished a neat vocal score, and on January 25, 1860, 
the work was performed in the Free Trade Hall, 
Manchester, with an enormous success. Mme. 
Catharine Hayes, Messrs. Sims Eeeves, L. Thomas, 
and Santley, were the interpreters, and could not 
well be surpassed in their respective roles. It had to 
be repeated several times during the season, and 
Messrs. Chappell undertook a similar performance in 
London under my direction, and with the same 
artists, which was equally well received. This led to 
another private performance, remarkable in many 
ways. Lord Dudley, that munificent patron of the 
arts, asked me if I could give the work in his own 
noble gallery, with a small orchestra and chorus, and 
on my answering in the affirmative he left me 
carte blanche, stipulating only that the very best 
vocalists should be engaged, namely, Mme. Titiens, 
Messrs. Sims Eeeves, Belletti, and Santley, and that 
the band should include Messrs. Sainton, Piatti, 
Lazarus, and others equally well known. I set to 



GLUCK'S 'IPHIGENIE EN TAURIDE ' 137 

work at once, trained a small but efficient chorus 
from the Italian Opera, and after a few rehearsals one 
of the most exquisite performances that I have ever 
been privileged to listen to, took place. To my 
surprise Lord Dudley had invited but few friends, 
about forty, to share his pleasure ; but he was 
thoroughly satisfied ; said to me repeatedly that he 
had never had so fine a concert in his house, and 
requested me to call the next morning with the bill 
of costs. When I drew this up the sum total was so 
enormous that I felt some anxiety as to how it would 
be received, fearing that his satisfaction of the 
previous day might be somewhat damped. I handed 
it to him, and whilst examining it he spoke again of 
the pleasure the performance had given him, made a 
few pencil strokes on the document, wrote a cheque 
and handed it to me, saying, ' / have doubled all the 
terms ; it is the only way in which I can show my 
entire satisfaction.' Such princely generosity is rare 
indeed, and I was amazed ; still more so when he 
added, ' Can you arrange for a second performance 
soon ? But (with a smile) I suppose it will not be 
necessary to double the terms again.' The second 
performance did take place about a fortnight later 
and gave equal satisfaction to all concerned. 

Having produced ' Iphigenia ' for the first time in 
England, I turned my attention to another of Gluck's 
masterpieces, ' Armida,' the translation of which had 
in the mean time been completed by Chorley. The 
printed full score of this opera, dating from 1778, is, 
if possible, in a worse and more misleading state than 



138 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

that of ' Iphigenia.' I could not, therefore, confide 
the task of copying out the orchestral parts to an 
ordinary copyist. Anxious, however, to be spared 
such a labour myself a second time, I applied to 
Berlioz, whose knowledge of Gluck and all his works 
was complete, Gluck being one of his idols, and asked 
him if the parts of ' Armida ' could be obtained in 
Paris, where this opera had been so often given in 
former times. I received the following reply, inte- 
resting in more than one sense : 

Mon cher Halle, Je nous felicite du succes eclatant de 
votre tentative pour reveler Gluck aux Anglais. II est done 
vrai que tot ou tard la flamrae finit par briller, si epaisse 
que soit la couche d'immondices sous laquelle on la croyait 
etouffee. Ce succfis est prodigieux, si Ton songe combien 
peu 1'Iphigenie est appreciable au concert, et combien 1'couvre 
de Gluck en general est inherente a la scene. Tous les amis 
de ce qui est eternellement beau vous doivent, a vous et a 
Chorley, une vive reconnaissance. 

II n'y a pas d'autres parties separees d'Armide que celle 
de 1'Opera, et certainement on ne vous les preterait pas. En 
outre elles contiennent une foule d' arrangements faits autre- 
fois par Gardel et autres, et des instruments ajoutes par je ne 
sais qui, dont vous ne voudriez certainement pas faire usage. 
Vous avez 1'inteiition de produire Gluck tel ({it'll est. Force 
vous sera done de faire copier les parties sur la partition, qui, 
du reste, est 1'une des moins fautives et des moins en de- 
sordre que Gluck nous ait laissees. Sans qu'on saclie pour- 
quoi, 1'auteur n'y a jamais employe les trombones ; il en est 
de meme dans Iphigenie en Aulide. Dans Orphee, Alceste, 
et Iphigenie en Tauride, au contraire, cet instrument joue un 
role tres important. Dans Iphigenie en Aulide Gluck a fait 
des changements pour quelques passages, et des airs de danse 
qui ne se trouvent que dans la partition manuscrite de 
1'Opera. Vous ne pourrez pas faire votre edition anglaise 



LETTER FEOM BERLIOZ 



139 



bien exacte sans venir a Paris. Mais si ce n'est qu'une 
Edition pour le piano, le mal sera moins grand. Jamais, je 
crois, il n'exista un compositeur plus paresseux que Gluck, 
ou plus insoucieux de ses oeuvres, dont pourtant il paraissait 
tres fier. Elles sont toutes dans le desordre et le desarroi 
les plus complets. 

Je n'ai pas, que je sache, ete attaque par Wagner ; il a 
settlement repondu a mon article des ' Debats ' par une lettre 
pretendue explicative a laquelle personne n'a rien compris. 
Cette lettre amphigourique et boursoufflee lui a fait plus de 
tort que de bien. Je n'ai pas replique un mot. 

Adieu, mon clier Halle, veuillez me rappeler au souvenir 
de Madame Halle et faire mille amities de ma part a Chorley 
quand vous le verrez. 








-& ,' ^-r-^ f~^r\ -I* 1 I 1 I 

=0= gEg^ef^|JE m 



H. BERLIOZ. 1 

[Translation] 

My dear Halle, I congratulate us on the brilliant success of your 
attempt to reveal Gluck to the English. So it is true that sooner or later 
the flame bursts forth, however thick may be the layers of rubbish under 
which one thought it smothered. This success is prodigious, when one 
remembers how little the ' Iphigenie' can be appreciated at a concert, and 
how closely Gluck's works in general are bound up with the stage. All the 
friends of what is eternally beautiful owe you and Chorley a great debt of 
gratitude. 

There are no other separate parts of 'Armida' except those of the 
Paris Opera, and they certainly would not be lent to you. Moreover, 
they contain a host of arrangements formerly added by Gardel and others, 
and additional instruments inserted by I know not whom, of which you 
would certainly not make use. Your intention is to produce Gluck an he 
is. You will, therefore, be forced to have the parts copied from the score, 
which, however, is one of the least faulty and the least untidy which 
Gluck has left us. For some unknown reason the composer nowhere 
employs the trombones in it ; it is the same in ' Iphigenie en Aulide.' In 
' Orphee,' ' Alceste,' and ' Iphigenie en Tauride ' on the contrary, this in- 
strument plays a very important part. In ' Iphigenie en Aulide ' Gluck 



140 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

The musical phrase which Berlioz quotes at the 
end of his letter occurs in Iphigenia's grand air in 
the second act, ' malheureuse Iphigenie,' and, with 
its melodious, wonderfully vast sweep, is one of those 
inspirations which even a great genius finds but 
seldom, and thoroughly deserves the notes of admira- 
tion added by Berlioz. 

I had now to give up the hope of getting the 
coveted parts from anywhere, for they had never 
been printed, so I sat down and wrote them out 
myself, as I have done for ' Iphigenia.' Trying as the 
labour was it was still one of love, and I felt fully re- 
compensed when on September 28, 1860, I con- 
ducted a performance which unfolded hitherto 
unknown beauties to a vast audience. The success of 
4 Armida,' if somewhat inferior to that of ' Iphigenia,' 
was still great enough to reward me for my trouble. 
Many years later I had the additional satisfaction of 
being able to lend my parts to Mme. Jenny Lind 
Goldschmidt for a performance at the 'Ehenish 
Musical Festival,' only made possible by the happy 
circumstance that I had them in my possession. 

has made some changes for certain passages, and written some dance-music 
which is only to be found in the MS. score belonging to the Opera. You 
cannot make your English edition very exact without coming to Paris. 
But if it is only a pianoforte edition the harm would be less great. I 
think there never existed a lazier composer than Gluck, nor one more 
careless of his works, of which, however, he seems to have been very 
proud. They are all in the most complete disorder and disarray. 

I have not, to my knowledge, been attacked by Wagner ; he merely 
replied to my article in the Debats by a pretended explanatory letter 
which no one could understand. It was an inflated and bombastic letter 
that did him more harm than good. I did not answer a single word. 
Farewell, my dear Hall6, pray remember me to Madame Halle, and say a 
thousand kind things to Chorley when you see him. H. BEELIOZ. 



CONTINUED BY HIS SON 141 



CHAPTEE IV 
BY CHAKLES E. HALLE 

1865-1895 

The last thirty years Refining influence of music An anonymous 
correspondent A token of gratitude from a "working man Letter 
from an old member of the Manchester Choir My father's respect 
for his audiences The training and recruiting of his band Achieve- 
ments in the cause of music Editorial work ' Practical Pianoforte 
School ' Royal Manchester College of Music Indomitable industry 
Railway travelling : amusing incidents Chelford accident Alfred 
de Musset Stephen Heller Testimonial A touching incident A 
faithful cabman Love of children and animals A poor sportsman 
Summer holidays at Cowes Little Holland House Interesting 
letter from Ruskin Projected farewell series of Beethoven Recitals 
Berlioz's Faust: first performance in England A wonderful 
memory Business capacities An unfounded report A good whist- 
player Love of Reading Religion Death of his first wife Second 
Marriage Children A staunch Conservative Knighthood LL.D. 
of Edinburgh Royal Favours Visits to Australia and South Africa 
The End. 

IT has been left to me to record the last thirty years 
of my dear father's life, to take up the pen which 
dropped from his hand the day before he died, and 
to conclude the task he left uncompleted. 

It will be a labour of love to recall and chronicle 
those events in his life at which I either personally 
assisted, or of which he spoke to me in the intimacy 
of our friendship a friendship which never from my 
earliest childhood to the day of his death suffered 



142 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

the slightest break, or was marred by even the most 
transient misunderstanding on either side. 

The readers of the preceding chapters will have 
formed an estimate of my father's character, of his 
indefatigable industry, his entire devotion to his art, 
his modesty, and his genial and lovable nature ; but 
it is only those who lived in daily association with 
him who could fathom the depths of his kindness and 
of his unselfishness, his sympathy, and the chivalry 
which led him not only to forgive, but to conceal the 
pain of any hurt he might receive. There never was 
a kinder father or a better friend, and the void his 
death has made, not only in his famity, but in a wide 
circle of acquaintances, will be felt for many a year 
to come. 

It will be in vain for me to attempt to make this 
chapter as interesting and amusing as those that 
have gone before. Apart from my very inadequate 
power as a chronicler, my father repeatedly told me 
that what he would have had to say about the last 
thirty years, the period from 1865* to 1895, which 
has been left to me to record, would be sadly lacking 
in interest after the story of his youth and the most 
exciting portion of his career. 

In undertaking the task I suffer from the extreme 
disadvantage of not being a musician myself when 
so much of what I have to say is connected with that 
beautiful art, of which my father was such an ardent 
disciple. A great love for it I do indeed possess ; my 
childish ears were made familiar with the noblest 
creations of Beethoven, Schubert, and Bach before I 



REFINING INFLUENCE OF MUSIC 143 

left my cradle, and as my childhood and boyhood 
owing to delicate health were spent at home, music 
was the daily accompaniment of my life. In short 
I have never ceased to feel that my early familiarity 
with all that was most beautiful in the art of music 
developed an understanding in me for other forms of 
beauty which otherwise I might never have possessed. 
And thus my own experience has made me rightly 
understand the importance of the work my father 
accomplished during the many years he laboured to 
bring music to the ears and hearts, not only of the 
rich, but of the most humble. 

How many a factory hand or office clerk in the 
busy towns of Manchester and the North of England 
may have owed his only knowledge of what was 
beautiful to the music he had an opportunity of 
hearing at my father's weekly concerts during the 
dreary winter months ! 

It is impossible to believe that some element of 
refinement has not been developed in the large 
audiences of working men who, standing and packed 
together in great discomfort as I have often seen 
them, have yet listened for hours, and evidently with 
much appreciation, to most intricate and delicate 
music ; or that the taste thus formed in one direction 
should not have had its effect in others, and possibly 
have coloured their whole lives. 

Every evidence of such appreciation was very 
dear to my father, and the three following letters, 
treasured among his papers, were found after his 
death, along with many others of the same kind. The 



144 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

first, from an anonymous correspondent, must have 
been written in 1864 : 

How slight and subtle may be, and ofttimes are, the 
links of that electric chain whose vibrations arouse in our 
hearts memories and thoughts that have long lain buried 
there ! These and similar thoughts filled my mind at the 
sight of a programme a programme of the eighteenth con- 
cert of the seventh season of Charles Halle's unrivalled 
orchestra. Seven years ago he led such an orchestra, and 
drew from the keys of his pianoforte such harmonies and 
melodies as beforetime were reserved exclusively for the 
wealthy. In the glass building prepared for the exhibition 
of Art Treasures we first listened to him, and the strains of 
that delicious music floating through the building became so 
associated with all that is most beautiful in painting and 
sculpture, that it is almost impossible to separate them. 
And when the first notes of his band peal through the Free 
Trade Hall, that noble, but now somewhat dingy, room 
becomes transformed into a fairy palace, bathed in summer 
sunshine, and instead of a closely packed and (except in the 
reserved seats) plainly-dressed audience, we see groups of 
gaily-attired ladies, or distinguished-looking men sauntering 
through the galleries of paintings or gazing on the glittering 
armour, or students intently absorbed in the contemplation 
of some remarkable work of long ago. But we will suppose 
the day a Thursday, the time 2 P.M., and by one accord the 
loungers are drawing towards the orchestra ; the discordant 
sounds emitted from various instruments being tortured into 
tune subside; a slight, fair-haired man bows slightly around, 
takes his place, raises his baton, and the first note of some 
lively overture, or it may be of some enchanting symphony, 
floats through the nave, enchaining the listener, who per- 
force almost holds his breath, lest he should lose one note of 
that sweet music; while over all glows the brilliant sun- 
shine, and the scent of summer air floats through the build- 
ing. Under such circumstances we first heard Charles Halle, 



AN ANONYMOUS CORRESPONDENT 145 

and often as we have attended his concerts, the charm has 
never failed. Last night a wet, splashy February evening 
every sense of discomfort was dispelled, and all our interest 
absorbed in the music, as if we heard it for the first time. 
A very few moments after the time named on the programme 
Charles Halle appeared, and the hush of pleased expectation 
stole over the miscellaneous company assembled at the Free 
Trade Hall. Glancing over the orchestra, we recognise many 
familiar faces Seymour in his accustomed place, though the 
lapse of years has left unmistakable signs on his face and 
figure, still discourses sweet music on his violin, which he 
handles as if he loved it ; now he plays seriously, not as in 
bygone times, when one has seen his gravity disturbed by 
the frolicsome Jacoby ; the latter has now subsided into a 
grave middle-aged man. De Jong is still there and Baetens 
but Richardson is gone, and some few others we miss. 
From this reverie we are aroused by the sharp tap of the 
baton, and a flood of music flows around. This dies away 
a vocalist has the next part then again the instruments 
have their turn ; all is delicious, but we wait for the treat of 
the evening, Charles Halle's solo on the piano ; the silence 
which had previously reigned deepens and becomes intense 
as we watch his fingers fly over the keys, wooing the music 
from them. If it did not seem fanciful, I should say the 
sensation is almost that of playing on one's very heart-strings 
we almost forbear to breathe. To those who have not 
heard him I cannot convey any idea of the power and sweet- 
ness of Halle's playing; while those who have had that 
pleasure need no words on the subject from me. 

This is a long essay to write upon a programme, but so 
pleasant have been the thoughts and scenes that it conjured 
up in my own mind that I fancied it might give pleasure to 
others. The memories of the past seven years, the joys, the 
sorrows, the perplexities and the anxieties that have marked 
their course, are to me very much associated with these 
concerts. I do not know that I have ever seen such vivid 
pictures of the past as are painted for me by Charles Halle's 

L 



146 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

orchestra ; on these I must not trust myself to write, or I 
should run on to a wearisome length, but will wind up my 
prosing by thanking you for the frequent pleasure you have 
ghen me by introducing me to these concerts. 

The next letter was written on a long narrow r 
sheet of paper such as is found in workshops : 

Nov. 10, 1873. 

Dear Sir, Having had the pleasure of attending your 
first concert this season, I beg to tender you my best wishes 
for your future success; and not having had the pleasure of 
hearing such a display of talent before, I felt most delighted, 
and beg you will please accept the small token I forward you. 

Kespectfully yours, 

AN OPERATIVE. 

The small token consisted of two yards of fine 
white flannel, which my father carefully preserved 
for many years. 

The following is the second of two letters, the 
first of which has been lost, from an old member of 
his Manchester Choir : 

King City, Missouri, U.S.A. : 

Nov. 16, 1884. 

Dear Sir, Your kind letter of October 16, enclosing 
your photograph, came duly to hand, for which please accept 
my heartfelt thanks. 

On looking at your photograph, your features seem so 
lifelike that you don't seem to have altered since I last saw 
you, which is over twenty-two years ago. May you long 
live and look as well ! 

I enclose you a copy of my photo., taken the day I was 
sixty years old. I do not know if you will be able to recog- 
nise me. I still keep up my interest in choral music. I 
conduct a small society here, and play the organ at church, 
and teach the Sunday-school children to sing. This I have 



RESPECT FOR HIS AUDIENCES 147 

to do in what little time I can spare from business. I have 
given it up several times, thinking I was getting too old, 
but no one seemed to take it up ; and I hated to see the 
young folks without any one to lead them. So went at it 
again. I guess I shall have to die in harness yet ; but the 
proverb says, ' It is better to wear bright than rust.' Hoping 
we may meet where harmony never ceases, 

I remain, dear sir, 

Yours very truly, 

WM. DICKENS, Senr. 
Dealer in lumber, coal, and farm machinery. 

My father had always the greatest respect for his 
audiences, of whatever sort they might be, and never 
gave them anything but the very best at his com- 
mand, whether it was his own playing or the per- 
formance of his orchestra. My mother used to relate 
how on one occasion, soon after his arrival in England, 
he and Ernst the violinist, with whom he was touring 
in the provinces, arrived at a small town where 
amateurs of music were so few that scarce a dozen 
persons had assembled to hear them. From the 
artists' room they could see how small was the 
audience, and simultaneously exclaimed : ' Then we 
must play as we have never played before ! ' They 
kept their word, and at the close of the concert the 
impulsive, highly-strung Ernst threw himself into my 
father's arms, saying, ' Halle, we never played like 
that in all our lives ! ' 

To bring his band by training and careful recruit- 
ing as near perfection as possible was the hobby of 
his life, and to this end he spared neither trouble nor 
expense. He never for a moment allowed any ques- 

i 2 



148 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

tion of money to stand in his way, and his agents 
were often driven to despair by his engagements at 
ruinous terms of artists who did not make the dif- 
ference of a sixpence in the receipts ; indeed, to my 
certain knowledge, he several times gave cheques to 
members of the band, or to singers whom he engaged 
for the concerts, on his private banking account, so 
that he might escape the ' talking to ' he knew he so 
well deserved, if Messrs. Forsyth had got wind of his 
goings on. 

It is not for me to say anything about the excel- 
lence of the Manchester orchestra, or of the chorus 
which he also formed there. They have been heard 
in London, and the orchestra has played in all the 
leading provincial towns in England, and at Edin- 
burgh, Glasgow, Dublin, and Belfast, so that they are 
both well known. It is obvious, however, that over 
a hundred skilled musicians, recruited from the best 
talent obtainable in Europe, playing constantly toge- 
ther for years under the direction of an artist who 
was on terms of intimate personal friendship with 
many of the composers whose works he interpreted, 
have formed an orchestra of quite exceptional merit, 
which it should be the endeavour of the City of 
Manchester to keep together under the baton of the 
best conductor who can be found to take my father's 
place. 

It seems strange in the early part of these 
memoirs to read how little a certain class of music, 
which is now so familiar, was known fifty years ago 
to see that even Cherubini did not know the 



EDITOEIAL WORK 149 

sonatas of Beethoven until my father played them to 
him, and that in London until he came here they 
had never been heard in public. What priceless 
treasures of sweet sound were locked up until he 
turned the key ! 

To give a list of all the works for orchestra and the 
piano which he introduced for the first time in England 
would include a large proportion of all the choral 
works, symphonies, concertos, and chamber music 
ever produced here ; nor was this all he achieved 
in the cause of music. He edited a complete set of 
Beethoven's sonatas, besides executing endless other 
editorial works, and compiled a School for the use of 
Students of the Pianoforte, which by easy grades 
should conduct them from the elementary to the most 
difficult stages of the art. He was largely instrumental 
in founding the Eoyal Manchester College of Music, 
which had been the dream of his life ever since 1852, 
when he elaborated his scheme in a correspondence, 
now unfortunately lost, with Mr. Adolf Meyer, but 
which was only fulfilled in 1893. He was elected 
first Principal of the college, and took the liveliest 
interest in his duties and in the progress of the 
students, but he was snatched away after two brief 
years of labour in this field, in which he had hoped 
to accomplish so much. 

My father's industry was perfectly astounding, 
and he must have had a constitution of iron, in spite 
of his delicate health as a child, to go through the 
amount of fatigue he did without apparent discomfort. 
He was incessantly travelling ; but railway journeys, 



150 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

however long, never seemed to tire him. Many and 
many a time he would travel, say from Manchester 
to Edinburgh, conduct a rehearsal in the afternoon 
and a concert in the evening, and return to Man- 
chester the same night, reaching home at four or five 
o'clock in the morning, and yet after a few hours' 
sleep he would be quite fresh again and ready for 
his next day's work. Many and various were his 
adventures on these journeyings, and he was never 
tired of relating them. On one occasion he was 
snowed-up in a train in Scotland, and he and his two 
or three fellow-travellers were nearly starved, when 
the guard remembered that a fine pig had been 
placed in the van. This unfortunate animal was 
promptly converted into pork chops over the engine 
fire and furnished an excellent supper, in spite of his 
shrill protests at being immolated for the public 
good. Another time the train he was in broke down, 
and as he w r as to play at a concert that evening he 
was sent on to his destination in a tender attached to 
the engine. He dressed for the concert as he went 
along, and the two good-natured stokers helped him 
into his clothes ; but their valeting left marks on his 
shirt-front, which caused much amusement among 
his audience when he at last reached the concert- 
room. 

Another most amusing adventure was also con- 
nected with the break-down of a train. On this 
occasion my father had a band of some fifty members 
of his orchestra with him, and after a long and 
tedious delay it occurred to one of them to express 



A MUSICAL 'CHAEIVAEI' 151 

his feelings of strong dissatisfaction at things in 
general by an improvised solo on his instrument, 
which happened to be a bassoon. This encouraged 
others in different parts of the train to join their 
lamentations to his, each man on his own instrument, 
and soon night was made hideous by the most 
lamentable sounds ever suggested by the goddess of 

C3O */ O 

despair. Presently there came a move on the part of 
the train of a few yards, when flutes and clarinets 
set up the liveliest airs of rejoicing ; but again there 
was a stop, and fresh wails of anguish smote the 
astonished air. 

My father was mightily enjoying the charivari, 
and Mr. Straus, who was with him, was preparing 
his fiddle to take part in it, when, happening to look 
out of the window, they discovered they were not in 
the open country as they had imagined, but in the 
suburbs of a town. The inhabitants, awakened out 
of their virtuous slumbers by the appalling din, were 
leaning out of doors and windows in night attire, 
with flat candlesticks in their hands, evidently by 
their gestures protesting against the performance of 
the Halle band, but the noise was so great they could 
not be heard. Fortunately at this juncture a fresh 
engine arrived, and the train escaped wreckage at 
the hands of a population goaded to fury. 

' I little thought I should ever travel with a life- 
boat on either side of the railway carriage,' he once 
quietly remarked on his return from a concert in the 
Midlands at the time of a great flood. On our 
inquiring if he had got wet, ' No,' he said, ' the water 



152 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

did come in a little, but I put my feet up on the seat, 
and fortunately the engine fire was not put out.' No 
difficulties or hindrances ever prevented him from 
doing all that was humanly possible to keep his 
engagements. The only time my father was in a bad 
railway accident was on December 23, 1894, when 
the terrible collision occurred at Chelford on the 
L. & N.-W. Eailway. He was going to London with 
his sister and eldest daughter for the Christmas 
holidays, and they had a miraculous escape, my 
father's calm presence of mind never for a moment 
deserting him. 

Eailway journeys, even unattended by adventure, 
always gave him a certain amount of pleasure ; 
he liked them, he liked the rapid movement of the 
train, the certainty of a few hours' respite from his 
incessant occupations, and, strangest taste of all, he 
adored Bradshaw. Nothing pleased him better, if 
any of us were going a journey, than to look out the 
trains, and the mention of an expedition to the Con- 
tinent took him away from any other occupation to 
arrange the whole tour, and present us with a way- 
bill with the time of departure and arrival of all the 
trains we should take neatly written out in his beau- 
tiful handwriting for our guidance. 

The only thing he thoroughly disliked was when 
the trains did not keep their time. I well remember 
the first occasion on which he went to Eome, the 
country was in flood, as Italy usually is in autumn, 
and the bridges broken, which is also not an uncom- 
mon occurrence, and we were taken round by An- 



TRAVELLING ABROAD 153 

cona instead of taking the usual route. Of course 
my father worked it all out in Bradshaw, and timed 
our arrival accordingly ; but, alas ! for the calcula- 
tions of that trusty book, twelve hours after we were 
due in the eternal city we were still slowly crawling 
through a romantic but desolate-looking region some- 
where in the centre of Italy,, where the only food 
obtainable was bad coffee, green apples, and unripe 
grapes ; and it was then my father gave vent to his 
sentiments he did not say much, it was only ' What 
would I not give to be in a railway carriage on its way 
from London to Manchester,' but it summed up his 
opinion of Italy and all things Italian better than 
torrents of abuse. It was not till we had been a day 
or two in Eome under the excellent care of those 
admirable caterers to the wants of their fellow- 
creatures the brothers Genre, of the Hotel d' Angle- 

7 O 

terre that he forgot the impression of that most 
lamentable journey. 

My father was a most delightful travelling com- 
panion ; his interest in everything was intense. He 
enjoyed his holidays immensely, and the most trivial 
incidents afforded him a fund of amusement his 
great love for beautiful scenery and keen apprecia- 
tion of painting and architecture made it a real 
pleasure to go with him where such things were to 
be seen. I well remember my first expedition abroad 
with him ; it was to Hagen, his native town, when I 
was about fifteen, and this journey was a very mo- 
mentous one for me, as after I had duly made the 
acquaintance of all my German uncles, aunts, and 



154 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

cousins, I was taken to DiisseldorfF, and afterwards to 
Paris, and given the choice of the two schools of 
painting. I elected to remain in Paris, and was put 
under the care of my dear kind old friend, M. Victor 
Mottez, and worked in his studio for a year. Mottez 
was a pupil and great friend of the famous Ingres, so 
that during the happy months I spent with him I 
made the acquaintance not only of that great painter 
but of many others of my father's early friends in 
Paris, more especially Stephen Heller and Hector 
Berlioz, whom I used to meet almost every Sunday 
evening at the house of Madame Damcke, and who 
always spoke of my father with the greatest affection ; 
le Bayard sans peur et sans reproche was Berlioz's 
description of him. A severe attack of bronchitis 
having interrupted my studies in France, I was sent 
to Italy to recover my health, and remained there for 
several years ; but I always look back with keen 
interest on the time I spent in Paris, as I gained an 
insight into the artist life my father describes so 
graphically in the early pages of his memoirs and 
letters. He evidently intended to say a great deal 
more about the many interesting people he knew in 
the twelve years he spent in Paris (between 1836 
and 1848), as his MS. shows that he broke off in the 
middle of an anecdote about one of them, Spontini, 
to go on with his own tale, evidently intending to go 
back to that part of his memoirs and greatly aug- 
ment it. 

It must, indeed, have been a wonderful society 
in which my father spent his time during those years. 



ALFRED DE MUSSET 155 

He has dwelt more especially on the musicians with 
whom he had intercourse ; but in the long conversa- 
tions I had with Stephen Heller in 1886, when I 
painted his portrait, many and many a name occurred 
of men famous in literature and art who were their 
daily associates. Victor Hugo, Balzac, Alexandra 
Dumas and his son, Alfred de Musset, and Scribe, 
were but a few of the brilliant host who daily met 
and dined, or took their coffee together on the Boule- 
vards. I asked Heller one day when he was talking 
of those times and the days he and my father spent to- 
o-ether, which of all these men had left the most vivid 

O ' 

impression on his mind ; without a moment's hesita- 
tion he answered, ' Alfred de Musset.' He told me 
that it did not matter who was present, nor who was 
talking Hugo, Balzac, Heine, or Dumas everybody 
ceased when Alfred de Musset opened his lips his 
individuality and personal fascination were so great. 
There has never been in the world's history, I sup- 
pose, a time when so many remarkable men in 
literature, music, and art lived together as were found 
in Paris during the twenty years from 1830 to 1850, 
and where are they all now ? Only two are left that 
I know of, our dear old friend Manuel Garcia, who 
is still with us here in London, and bears his ninety 
years without a sign of discomfort, and my old 
master, Victor Mottez, who lives in retirement at 
Bievres, near Paris. These two have still memories 
which are green, and many a tale have I heard from 
them of the sayings and doings of these many merry 
men of genius ; for merry they were, in spite of 



156 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

the struggles and poverty in which so many of them 
lived. This aspect of their lives was forcibly brought 
home to me by my father a few years ago. I was 
going out to dinner, and noticing that my waistcoat 
was showing marks of age, I went to my father's 
study to conceal the ravages of time by the applica- 
tion of a little ink to certain white patches which do 
not usually form portion of an English gentleman's 
evening dress. My father watched my operations 
with the keenest interest and delight, and when I 
asked him what he saw in rny threadbare garment to 
cause him so much happiness, he told me that what 
he saw reminded him of his early days in Paris, when 
an ink-bottle was the one essential requisite of his 
arid all his friends' toilettes. It was applied to hats, 
coats, boots, cravats indiscriminately, and as he 
added, ' So many of us were poets, there was always 
plenty of it about.' 

Of these men, who were at that time all poor to- 
gether, some afterwards achieved popularity as well 
as abundant prosperity ; some, equally gifted, failed 
to obtain recognition, and some, again, fell upon evil 
days when advanced in life. Stephen Heller, the 
dreamy composer and sensitive, nervous man, pushed 
to one side and neglected in the busy Paris of to-day, 
was one of these ; in addition to other misfortunes 
he became nearly blind in his old age, and with the 
loss of his sight lost the means of earning the little 
that sufficed to support his modest existence. My 
father, who had maintained the closest intimacy with 
Heller, became aware of his trouble and felt that this 



A TOUCHING INCIDENT 157 

could not, should not be, and that some among the 
thousands who had enjoyed his music must come 
forward and save the aged musician from want. A 
4 Heller Testimonial ' was started, and soon enough 
money was subscribed to purchase a small annuity 
and enable our dear old friend to end his days in 
peace. Their correspondence shows the infinite 
trouble my father took in the matter, not the least 
part of which was the difficulty of persuading Heller 
to allow his necessity to be made known. 

It may surprise those who know how popular 
Heller's music has become, especially in England, to 
learn that it did not bring in an adequate return ; 
but the annals of art are full of similar cases. A 
picture which may some day fetch thousands at 
Christie's, a book which may run through many 
editions, and a song which may be sung all over the 
country will, as often as not, fail to produce anything 
for the author or the artist but the most paltry sum. 
Thus, the ' Wanderstunden,' by Heller, which is to 
be found in the library of every musical amateur, 
was sold out and out with four other pieces for 
15*. ! 

The prompt sympathy which made my father 
come forward to the relief of his old comrade is not 
to be wondered at, but his ready willingness to assist 
those in want who had no real claim upon him was 
evinced in a hundred directions. His purse was 
always open, and in many other ways was he ready 
to give assistance when needed. A touching evidence 
of this was given to us many years ago in Manchester, 



158 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES IIALLE 

when my father, returning to his house in Greenheys, 
noticed that the old postman who was in the habit of 
bringing him his letters had evidently been too gene- 
rously regaled at the houses at which he had already 
called it was Christmas time and was not in a fit 
condition to deliver the rest of his letters. Knowing 
that the poor man would be dismissed if his state was 
discovered or any mistake occurred in the letters 
entrusted to his care, my father went the rest of his 
round with him, delivering every letter to its proper 
address, and, when the bag was quite empty, took the 
postman home with him and did not let him go until 
he was quite sober again. It is gratifying to add 
that the man was exceedingly grateful, never again 
lapsed from the path of sobriety, and continued on 
his old beat for some years afterwards. 

Cabmen were also great friends of my father's ; 
he got on beautifully with them and they with him, 
and many an amusing story would he bring home 
about them, especially after a visit to Dublin. One 
honest and worthy Jehu evinced his devotion in a 
very striking manner. At the time of the Franco- 
Prussian war it was rumoured in Manchester that my 
father would have to go and serve in the German 
army, so ' James,' for such was his respected name, 
came to our house one evening and begged to be 
allowed to take my father's place and go out as his 
substitute to the seat of war. 

My father was also very fond of children and de- 
lighted in playing with them, especially with the little 
urchins whom he met on his way to and from the 



LOVE OF ANIMALS 159 

College of Music (about the longest walks he ever 
took), half a mile each way ; but then he hated that 
form of locomotion, except during his holidays abroad. 
If he could catch a little boy unawares, he would take 
off his cap or pull his hair, or have some other game 
of the sort with him, generally followed by the gift 
of a penny ; but these friendly advances were not 
always taken in good part. On one occasion, having 
captured the headgear of a youngster aged about 
four, the little rascal turned on him, to his great 
amusement, and kicked him valiantly on the shins 
until his cap was returned to him with all the honours 
of war. 

A great love of animals was another of my father's 
characteristics. Every house he was in was sure to 
contain birds, cats, and dogs, especially dogs. He 
generally had 'Scot,' a collie, and a little terrier, 
4 Clootie,' on either side of his chair at meal times, 
and he did his best to induce them to occupy those 
positions in his study ; but music and the smell of 
cigars were tastes he had not in common with his 
four-footed friends, and they generally deserted him 
when he opened his piano or began to smoke. There 
were pugs and other varieties of the canine race in 
favour from time to time, and one day he announced 
that a member of his band had presented him with a 
fine Mount St. Bernard pup. At this, however, my 
sisters rose like one woman and said the huge collie 
was quite enough for him, and for them. So the St. 
Bernard pup was returned, though not without many 
heart-burnings on my father's part, who would gladly 



160 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

have kept him, and, indeed, for that matter, half a 
dozen like him. 

Horses my father knew nothing about. I don't 
think it ever occurred to him that a horse had a 
separate and distinct existence from a cab, or that it 
was ever intended to serve man in any other fashion; 
nor was he much of a sportsman. On only two 
occasions did he sally forth with a gun, and on 
neither did he achieve much glory. His first experi- 
ence, soon after his arrival in England, was at Burton 
Constable, in Yorkshire, when, to the dismay of his 
host, Sir Clifford Constable, who kept a pack of 
hounds and hunted three or four days a week, my 
father came home one evening and proudly announced 
that he had shot a fox. ' Mr. Halle, if you know 
where you have left that fox, pray borrow a spade 
from a gardener and go and bury it,' was all poor Sir 
Clifford could say. 

His second adventure was at Heaton Park in 
Cheshire, where Lord Wilton sent him out one after- 
noon to shoot rabbits, and lent him a dog. A rabbit 
was soon put up and promptly missed. This 
happened twice more, when his intelligent com- 
panion looked up into my father's face and wagged 
his tail to show there was no ill-feeling. Evidently 
considering, however, that as their views of life were 
so different, further association was undesirable, he 
trotted back to his kennel. My father accepted the 
lesson and never again loaded a gun. On the other 
hand he was very fond of fishing. Given a warm 
afternoon, a slow stream or a pond, a comfortable 



SUMMER HOLIDAYS AT CO WES 161 

chair, a boy to put on the bait, and a plentiful 
supply of cigars, he would be perfectly happy for 
hours, especially if now and then an ill-advised carp 
would allow himself to be hauled out of his native 
element to be as likely as not put back into the 
water after a brief sojourn on the bank by my kind- 
hearted father. 

Nothing, however, took my father away for long 
from his beloved piano. Wherever he might go for 
his holidays Messrs. Broadwood would send him one 
of their big instruments, and much amusement have 
we had in seeing the whole fisher population of some 
seaside place turn out to trundle the big case up to 
the house my father might have taken. Cowes was 
for many years his favourite holiday resort, at first a 
cottage at East Cowes, and later Egypt House, West 
Cowes, a delightful place with a garden down to 
the sea, at that time a school, but my father was 
able to take it during the holiday months August 
and September. Here the piano, with many 'yo- 
heave-hos ' and other nautical sounds, would be 
installed, and then how delightful it was on hot 
summer nights to sit in the garden, or on the low 
wall overhanging the sea, and hear the ' Moonlight ' 
and other divine sonatas played as only my father 
could play them. 

Our dear friend Eichard Doyle once wrote, in 
refusing an invitation to repeat a visit to us there : 

I dare not run away for a day, because I know that once 
in sight of the sea I should not be able to move from it. 
And oh ! the Schuberts, Hellers, and the moonlight nights, 
how I wish my eyes and ears were among them. 

M 



162 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Many were the friends who would wander in to 
listen with us, and certainly music heard under those 
conditions has a charm 

' Ch' intender non la puo 
Chi non la prova.' 

I do not know how much real musicians are 
affected by the conditions under which music is heard 
whether to them it is a matter of indifference 
whether they listen to it in a crowded concert room 
or among surroundings such as I have described 
above, but as to an artist a picture conveys quite a 
different expression when seen in the church for 
which it was painted, or when forming part of 
the decoration of a beautiful room, from what 
it does when hung in an auction room, so to 
a mere amateur do beautiful surroundings and the 
sympathy of friends enhance the pleasure derived 
from music. 

A house where all these conditions were enjoyed 
to perfection was that lovely cottage in Kensington, 
the home of the Prinseps and of Watts, Little Holland 
House. 

Here on Sunday afternoons in summer, men who 
were famous and women who were beautiful would 
assemble ; croquet and bowls, tea and strawberries, 
would serve as accompaniments to merry, witty talk, 
and here at dusk and often far into the night, my 
father and Joachim would take to their instruments, 
and convey the thoughts of the great masters of their 
art to the ears of Tennyson and Swinburne, Burne 
Jones and Eossetti. Watts, Browning, Leighton, 



LETTER FROM RUSKIN 163 

Millais, Fred Walker, Doyle, and many another 
poet and painter who lingered on to listen to them. 1 
My father always delighted in having such men to 
play to ; with painters, as he has himself said, he was 
always safe with litterateurs he was occasionally not 
quite so fortunate. They were fond of talking and 
found it difficult to sit long and listen, whatever other 
sounds were being made, and at times matters fared 
even worse. Some years ago, in 1864, Professor 
Euskin asked him to come and play to a school of 
young girls in whom he was greatly interested. My 
father readily consented, and as the Professor was there 
himself, and it was the first time he had played to 
him, he was careful to select what was most great 
and beautiful, and played his very best. When it 
was all over and my father was about to leave, one 
of the girls told him she had been practising Thai- 
berg's arrangement of ' Home, Sweet Home,' and 
would very much like to hear my father play it 
before he went away. He told her it was a pity 
they should listen to a trivial thing like that after the 
beautiful music they had just heard, but as she 
appeared disappointed and some other girls came 
forward with the same request, he gave way, sat 
down again, and played it. To his chagrin, Euskin, 
who had been politely appreciative, now became 
enthusiastic and told him that was the piece he liked 
best far and away. Of course my father said 
nothing at the time, but it got to the ears of the 

1 An interesting record of this time is to be found in the portraits Mr. 
Watts painted of my father and many celebrated men, latel/ presented by 
him to the nation. 

M 2 



1G4 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

Professor how disappointed my father had been, so he 
wrote him the following letter : 

\Vinnington Hall, Nortliwich, Cheshire : 

Dec. 3, 1864. 

Dear Mr. Halle, My ' children ' tell me you were sorry 
because I liked that ' Home S. H.' better than Beethoven 
having expected better sympathy from me. But how could 
you with all your knowledge of your art, and of men's 
minds ? Believe me, you cannot have sympathy from any 
untaught person, respecting the higher noblenesses of com- 
position. If I were with you a year, you could make me feel 
them I am quite capable of doing so, were I taught but 
the utmost you ought ever to hope from a musically-illiterate 
person is honesty and modesty. I do not should not 
expect you to sympathise with me about a bit of Titian, but I 
know that you would, if I had a year's teaching of you, and I 
know that you would never tell me you liked it, or fancy you 
liked it, to please me. 

But I want to tell you, nevertheless, ivkij I liked that 
H. S. H. I do not care about the air of it, I have no doubt it 
is what you say it is sickly and shallow. But I did care 
about hearing a million of low notes in perfect cadence and 
succession of sweetness. I never recognised before so many 
notes in a given brevity of moment, all sweet and helpful. 
I have often heard glorious harmonies and inventive and 
noble succession of harmonies, but I never in my life heard a 
variation like that. 

Also, I had not before been close enough to see your 
hands, and the invisible velocity was wonderful to me, quite 
unspeakably, merely as a human power. 

You must not therefore think I only cared for the bad 
music but it is quite true that I don't understand Beethoven, 
and I fear I never shall have time to learn to do so. 

Forgive me this scrawl, and let me talk with you again, 
some day. 

Ever with sincere regards to Mrs. and Miss Halle, grate- 
fully and respectfully yours, J. BUSKIN. 



DINNER PARTIES 165 

There was perhaps one further reason for my being so 
much struck with that. I had heard Thalberg play it after 
the Prussian Hymn. I had gone early that I might sit 
close to him, and I was entirely disappointed, it made no 
impression on me whatever. Your variation therefore took 
me with greater and singular surprise. 

In commenting on this letter my father never 
would admit that he could not appreciate Titian 
without instruction, and he had such a genuine love 
for pictures and such a good eye that I felt with him 
the Professor had failed to prove his case. 

My father never went much into general society ; 
big entertainments and receptions were a dreadful 
weariness to him, and I can imagine the amazement 
with which he received the confession from that 
wonderful and delightful old lady, Mrs. Procter, when 
sitting beside him at a dinner party, that she would 
have one regret on her death-bed the thought of the 
many pleasant parties she had missed ! But genial 
little dinners, especially when he could be sure of 
meeting his dear friends, Joachim and Piatti, and of 
discoursing music with them afterwards, he delighted 
in. He has himself spoken of Mr. and Mrs. Sartoris, 
of the many days he spent in Park Place, St. James's, 
and at War sash in Hampshire with those two friends, 
for whom he had such a genuine affection and 
admiration, but there were other houses at which he 
was often to be found. Sir Alexander Cockburn's 
was one of these ; Lady Eevelstoke's, Mrs. Benzon's, 
Mrs. F. Lehmann's were others, and there was one 
social gathering which he would never miss if he 



1G6 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

could possibly help it, and that was Sir Frederick 
Leighton's annual party in the spring. He dearly 
liked playing in a studio and among pictures, and one 
of the dreams of his life was to found an institution 
where the two arts should work in harmony together. 

When the Grosvenor Gallery was started and I 
was appointed one of the directors he thought his 
opportunity had come, and for one or two seasons he 
gave concerts of chamber music in the gallery ; but 
as his recitals had formerly been always held in the 
afternoon, the change of hour to the evening caused 
much disappointment among his regular subscribers, 
many of whom were students at musical colleges ; so 
the Grosvenor concerts had to be abandoned, and 
the venue changed to the Prince's or St. James's Hall. 

Concerts and recitals have become a matter of 
such every-day occurrence in London nowadays, 
and so many pianists of amazing skill arrive here 
each season, that my father no longer saw the 
necessity of continuing his recitals regularly every 
summer, and of late years they were somewhat inter- 
rupted. It was, however, his intention to give a 
farewell series of pianoforte recitals during the coming 
spring (1896), in order to play all the Beethoven 
sonatas once again in consecutive order, and he had 
already fixed the dates and taken the St. James's 
Hall for the purpose. With what devotion he would 
have accomplished this final act of homage to the 
genius of the hero in whose service he had spent his 
life, only those able in some degree to measure the 
depth of his reverence for him can form any idea. 



BERLIOZ'S 'FAUST' 167 

With the music of a Beethoven concerto he first 
appealed to English ears more than half a century 
ago, and in the quiet of his study, the room he loved 
best, which he always quitted with regret and 
returned to with eager pleasure, within the twenty- 
four last hours of his life, he sat playing a Beethoven 
concerto almost within the shadow of death. 

From 1869 onwards my father's recitals had 
ceased to be concerts for pianoforte alone, concerted 
chamber music being regularly introduced as well as 
an occasional vocal piece. The artists most con- 
stantly associated with him were Mme. Norman 
Neruda, Herr Straus, and Signer Piatti, and among 
the many works introduced by him for the first time 
in England were trios, quartets, and quintets by 
Brahms, Dvorak, Saint-Saens, and other modern com- 
posers. A list of all the works performed at his 
Manchester Orchestral Concerts will be found at the 
end of the volume. 

In 1880 my father brought out a work at his 
orchestral concerts in Manchester, the production of 
which gave him the greatest pleasure and interest ; 
this was Berlioz's ' Faust.' The Hungarian March 
and the ' Ballet des Sylphes ' were well known, as 
they had often been given at previous concerts ; but 
to give the work in its entirety had been my father's 
ambition for years, and he at last ventured on it in 
spite of the doubts expressed by many of his friends as 
to its proving a popular success. The concert excited 
much interest throughout England, and many well- 
known musicians repaired to Manchester to hear 



LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

the first performance of a work which had been so 
much discussed, and about which so many contrary 
opinions were held. 

The performance, which had been preceded by 
many careful rehearsals, was at all points magnificent, 
and reflected the greatest credit upon both band and 
chorus, whilst the principal vocalists, Miss Mary 
Davies, Mr. Lloyd, Mr. Hilton, and Mr. Henschel 
rendered the solos admirably. The work was 
received with so much enthusiasm that my father 
gave it a second time during the same season, a very 
rare proceeding on his part. Indeed, it is worthy of 
note that during the thirty-eight years' existence of 
the Manchester concerts, this compliment has only 
been paid to the following great choral works : 
Handel's ' Messiah,' of which a double performance 
takes place every Christmas ; Handel's ' Jephtha,' 
owing to the remarkable success of Mr. Sims Eeeves 
in 1868; Gluck's 'Iphigenia,' given three times in 
the course of 1860; and the music to the 'Mid- 
summer Night's Dream,' by Mendelssohn, given twice 
in the season of 1857-58. 

The following year, 1881, my father took his 
band and chorus to London and gave a performance 
of ' Faust 'at St. James's Hall, the soloists being the 
same as in Manchester. Again the chef d'oeuvre of 
Berlioz was received with acclamation, and both there 
and in Manchester it has been repeated over and over 
again with ever increasing popularity, whilst in 
nearly all the greater towns of England it has been 
performed with the utmost success. 



FIRST PERFORMANCE IN MANCHESTER 169 

I went to Manchester for the first performance of 
' Faust,' and being anxious to know something about 
it before the concert took place in the evening I 
attended the rehearsal. A little incident occurred 
which revealed to me my father's wonderful accuracy 
of ear, and which I may be pardoned for repeating. 
In the second part of ' Faust,' when the hero of the 
legend meets his doom and is consigned to the 
infernal regions, there occurs an interlude for the 
orchestra expressive of the exultation felt by the 
denizens of hell over their latest victim. When I 
first heard this piece I felt inclined to think my father 
had given carte blanche to every member of his band 
to make any noise he liked, provided it was loud and 
of a horrible nature. 

When it was over, what was my astonishment to 
hear my father quietly say : ' The second clarinet 
played an E flat instead of an E natural in the eighth 
bar. I hope he will take care not to do so at the 
concert this evening ! ' 

Musicians may possibly scoff at this anecdote, 
and say that it is only what any good conductor 
would have done ; but, as I said at the beginning of 
this chapter, I have no knowledge of music, only a 
great love for it, and an absolute faith that the 
manner in which it was presented to me by my 
father, whether in his playing on the piano or his 
conducting of his orchestra, was the best of all. 
Many pianists had greater executive skill, as he was 
the first to admit, but none had his absolute forget- 
fulness of self, none, I think, so limpid and liquid a 



170 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

touch when translating into sound the thoughts of 
the master whose score he had before him. 

This quickness of perception and clearness of 
expression were part of his character as a man, and 
were as remarkable in his speech as in his rendering 
of music ; no one was ever left for a moment in 
doubt as to what he meant, and I think it was this 
gift which made even the most difficult music intel- 
ligible to the unlearned when my father was at the 
piano or in the conductor's chair. 

At the end of one of his concerts the remarks 
overheard were not so often ' How splendidly Halle 
played,' or ' How wonderfully he conducted,' as ' How 
beautiful was that sonata,' or ' How glorious that 
symphony ; ' and I think that was the highest tribute 
that could be paid him, and the one which his modest 
nature and single-minded devotion to his art most 
appreciated. 

Another gift my father possessed, and which never 
failed to fill me with astonishment, was his marvellous 
memory. A piece of music once read or heard 
seemed to be indelibly imprinted on some portion of 
his brain, and was there at his command whenever 
he wanted it. A remarkable instance of this occurred 
some years ago when Stephen Heller was here on a 
visit to us. He and my father had been talking 
about the evening on which the Ee volution of 1848 
broke out how they heard the first shots fired as 
they went for a stroll together before parting for the 
night, and this naturally led them to recall the stirring 
events of the next few months, events sufficiently 



A WONDERFUL MEMORY 171 

exciting and momentous to them, both to obliterate, 
as one would have thought, all the incidents of the 
quiet evening they had spent together on that fateful 
night before they heard the firing. Presently Heller 
said to my father : ' Do you remember, Halle, that I 
had composed a little sonata on that day, and when 
you came to me in the evening I asked you to play 
it to me ? I wonder if you could play it to me now.' 
' Good gracious ! ' said my father, ' I have never 
given it a thought from that day to this, but I'll try,' 
and he sat down at the piano and played it through 
without the mistake of a single note ! 

In spite of this unfailing memory he would often 
play, but would never conduct, without having the 
score before him. He maintained that to give an 
exhibition of his memory was not part of the pro- 
gramme of the concert, and that however perfect his 
recollection of a symphony or other concerted piece 
might be, he had greater command over his band 
when he could give all his attention to the proper 
rendering of the work they were about, without being 
distracted by any exercise of memory ; yet when 
occasion demanded, his power of playing and con- 
ducting by heart never failed him, and very useful at 
times did it prove. Once, when about to go on the 
platform to play the Kreutzer Sonata with Lady Halle, 
he discovered that the music had been left at home. 
' Never mind,' he said ; ' let's play it without,' and 
they went through it without a wrong note. 

My father's excellent memory was not confined to 
music. It combined with a love of accuracy and 



172 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

order, and that power of calculation, so often accom- 
panying the musical gift, which he possessed in a 
high degree, to make him a splendid man of business. 

From the early part of October to the middle of 
March he had to make, year after year, arrangements 
for from two to five concerts every week, some in 
Manchester, others in different parts of England, 
Scotland, or Ireland. These concerts were either 
orchestral, when his whole band accompanied him, 
or recitals of chamber music, where the performers 
were Lady Halle and himself. The correspondence, 
the business arrangements, the selection of pro- 
grammes for all these different towns, and the care 
that had to be taken not to give the various audiences 
the same piece twice over within a given time, in- 
volved an enormous amount of work, and yet my 
father never kept a secretary, and had every detail 
of this vast business so clearly in his head that he 
was never at fault, and would often send his 
agents instructions about financial arrangements, 
programmes, &c., when he was on a journey away 
from his letters and note-books. 

The quickness with which he despatched his cor- 
respondence always filled his family with astonish- 
ment. He would sit down to his study-table with a 
pile of letters before him, yet in an incredibly short 
time they were all disposed of. His system was to 
answer, or file for reference, each letter as it came, 
before he opened the next, and however hurried he 
might be, he never showed in his handwriting, which 
was faultlessly clear and beautiful, nor in what he 



AN UNFOUNDED RUMOUR 173 

wrote, any sign of haste. His business letters were 
models of conciseness, with never a word too many 
or too few, while he seemed to have an equal 
facility in expressing himself in English, French, 
or German. 

He would probably with his business capacities 
have been very successful financially as well as 
artistically in all his undertakings had not his artist's 
temperament run away with him whenever it became 
a question of money being weighed in the balance 
against music. Music was his goddess, who had 
always to be decked in the richest raiment, and all 
other considerations vanished in face of the primary 
aim of making his concerts as good as money could 
make them. He would calculate the expenses and 
receipts with the greatest facility, and audit his 
accounts to the fraction of a penny ; but whether the 
balance was to or against his credit was always amatter 
of comparative indifference so long as the concert had 
gone well. This and a large-hearted generosity led 
him to live up to his income without much thought 
for the future, though he was singularly simple in his 
habits and content with very little. He was neither 
a speculator nor a gambler. A report did once cer- 
tainly get about that he spent a great deal of time at 
the card-table, and the rumour became so prevalent 
that a good-natured friend was at last urged to 
remonstrate with him about it. My father naturally 
expressed indignant astonishment that such an un- 
founded statement should have been circulated, when 
to his amazement he was told that his first wife, my 



174 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

mother, was the author of the report. It seems my 
poor mother had once told a friend how distressed 
she was that my father, after working hard all day, 
would not go to bed and take his proper rest, but 
would sit up playing till far into the night. She 
meant playing the piano, but her friend, probably 
through imperfect knowledge of French, had con- 
strued this into playing at cards, and had straightway 
gone and announced from, the housetops that my 
father was an inveterate gambler ! 

He was certainly a very good card-player and 
dearly loved a rubber of whist when he could find 
time for one, but this was not often of late years, as 
he could seldom go to his club. His favourite game, 
so often mentioned in his Australian Diary and in his 
letters, was one called ' Sixty-six,' at which he had 
mighty encounters with Joachim, Piatti, and espe- 
cially with Straus when travelling about the country 
from one concert to another the stakes were always 
sixpence a game, and great was the triumph of the 
one who could boast, after a journey say from 
London to Edinburgh, of winning half-a-crown. 
Another form of card-playing he much indulged in 
was of a still more innocent nature. He would sit for 
hours of an evening when he really needed rest, 
finding relaxation for his mind in trying to work out 
problems of Patience with two packs of cards. He 
never cared for them unless they were exceedingly 
difficult, and many failures only seemed to spur him 
to further efforts. That this had been for many 
years a favourite amusement with him is proved by 



LOVE OF READING 175 

the following charming note addressed to him by 
Fanny Kemble, the celebrated actress, in 1853 : 

' G Albany Terrace : Mardi, le 29 Juin. 

' Cher M. Halle, Si jamais dans le malheur, la maladie ou 
1'ennui (et Dieu vous garde egalement des trois fleaux) vous 
prenez entre vos mains ces petites cartes, puissent-elles vous 
rendre en " patience " tout le bien que vous m'avez fait et 
rappeler a votre souvenir votre tres reconnaissante 

' FANNY KEMBLE.' ' 

Another favourite game was chess, which my 
father played very well, and I have in my possession 
a sketch by Dicky Doyle representing my father and 
Manuel Garcia absorbed in a game. 

My father was a man of so much energy and 
activity of mind that idleness was irksome to him in 
the last degree. His form of rest from work was to 
take up some other pursuit, either, as I have said 
above, the solution of some difficult problem of chess 
or cards, or else a book. He was a great reader, 
and it is astonishing how much he read considering 
the number of hours he gave each day to his work. 
Unlike his friend Heller, whose thoughts always 
dwelt on the past and whose favourite author was 
Horace, my father with his strong vitality and love 
of life lived in the present day and with authors who 
were his contemporaries. Books of travel and 
adventure, the history of this and of the latter half 

1 ' Dear Mr. Halle, If ever in sorrow, in sickness or distress (and God 
guard you ever from all three scourges) you take these little cards in your 
hands, may they return to you in " patience " all the good you have done 
me and recall to your remembrance your very grateful 

'FANNY KEMBLE.' 



176 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

of the last century, works of fiction by living French 
and English writers, the topics of the day and the 
latest discoveries in science all interested him 
greatly. 

In religion he was a Catholic, the faith of his 
first wife, my mother, who died in 1866 ; of his 
second wife, "Wilhelmina Norman-Neruda, widow of 
L. Norman of Stockholm, w T hom he married in 1888 ; 
and of the nine children his first wife gave him, eight 
of whom are still living. 

In politics he was a staunch Conservative, but I 
regret to say his interest wa.s never keen enough to 
overcome his objection to recording his votes at 
election times. He somehow connected polling- 
booths with jury-boxes, and thought if he did his 
duty as a citizen in the former capacity he might be 
called upon to serve in the latter, to which he had a 
particular objection. He thought too by remaining 
quietly at home when a parliamentary election was 
going on, the officer whose business it is to collect 
jurymen would forget his existence and leave him 
alone, and whatever grounds he had for building up 
this theory it certainly is a fact that only once was 
he ever called upon to serve on a jury. I shall never 
forget his consternation when he received his 
summons, but his friend the Lord Chief Justice, Sir 
Alexander Cockburn, to whom he at once repaired 
in his trouble, arranged matters for him and got him 
off, and I think must have asked that his name 
should be taken off the list of possible jurymen per- 
manently, as he was never called upon to serve again 



PEACE AND GOODWILL TO ALL MEN 177 

either in London or in Manchester. Curiously 
enough my father had a much greater dread of the 
jury-box than of another place connected with it, 
generally considered a still more unpleasant abode 
the jail. He often playfully said that nothing 
would please him better than to be locked up as a 
first-class misdemeanant for three months with lots of 
books, there were so many subjects he would like to 
study, and for which he would never find time 
whilst he was left at large, and had access to a piano. 
I am glad to say that neither Sir Alexander Cock- 
burn nor two other Lord Chief Justices of England, 
with whom he was on terms of friendship, Lord 
Coleridge and Lord Eussell, have indulged this whim, 
and that he refrained from courses which would have 
brought him within the pale of the law on his own 
account. 

My father was a great respecter of law and con- 
stituted authority and desired to be at peace with all 
men ; he had many friends and but few enemies, 
except amongst those to whom all success in their 
fellow men is a source of dislike and enmity. He 
was slow to an^er, but when his wrath was roused 

O 7 

he was, I am bound to say, a very hard hitter. 
Criticism on his own account he cared nothing about, 
but woe to the luckless wight who threw a stone at 
one of his gods in his presence, and who, to glorify 
some modern composer, would decry one of the great 
masters of the art of music. My father had a fine 
command of words which his great knowledge, un- 
failing memory, and accuracy, enabled him to use 



ITS LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

with much effect, and would reduce even the most 
truculent adversary to silence in a very short time. I 
used to love to be present at one of these encounters, 
but they were rare : ' peace and goodwill to all men ' 
might have been his motto through life, and I am 
sure even his opponents soon forgot and forgave 
what was never meant in malice. 

Of the many proofs of friendship and esteem, public 
and private, which my father received, I do not think 
that any, not even his knighthood, conferred in 1887, 
gave him so much pleasure as the doctor's degree 
conferred upon him at Edinburgh. He had the robes 
made for him, sat to me for his portrait in them, and 
expressed a wish that he might be buried in them a 
wish which, needless to say, was piously observed by 
us when the sad time came for giving effect to it. 
H.M. the Queen was always very kind to my father and 
showed him many marks of her favour ; he was often 
bidden to Windsor, Balmoral, and Osborne, to play 
to her and to the late Prince Consort and to give 
instruction or to play ' a quatre mains ' with her 
daughters. The Princess of Wales was also a pupil 
of my father's, and one for whom he had the greatest 
regard, as her talent was considered by him of a 
very high order. Both Her Eoyal Highness and 
the Prince of Wales treated my father with great 
affection and friendship, and he was often a guest 
at Sandringham and Marlborough House. The 
numerous extracts from my father's diaries and letters, 
translated, collected, and arranged by my sister at 
the end of this volume, make it unnecessary for me to 



LAST JOURNEYS 179 

add much, more to these brief notes, and the reader 
will doubtless be anxious to return and listen to my 
father himself. His account of his two journeys to 
Australia and of his visit to Africa last summer will, 
I think, be read with interest, more especially the 
latter, as he and Lady Halle went on their peaceful 
errand of music to Johannesburg and other places in 
the Transvaal only a few weeks before they became 
the scene of so much strife and disorder. It was also 
my poor father's last journey on earth, but little did 
we think so when he returned home full of health 
and spirits and apparently stronger and better than 
he had been for some time. 

He came to a private view at the New Gallery a 
few days after his return to London, and meeting 
Manuel Garcia there, said to him : ' Eh bien, nous 
sommes toujours la, mon vieux,' to which Garcia 
replied, ' Je crois bien, nous sommes si occupes nous 
n'avons pas le temps de mourir.' Alas ! Death and 
Time go hand in hand, and both work and play must 
go down before them. Within a fortnight the younger 
of these two old friends and valiant workers was 
snatched away. 

I cannot dwell upon my father's death it was 
too heavy a blow for us all and too recent, but for 
him it was in its suddenness the most merciful ending 
he could have had. My father's love of life, happiness 
in his work and surroundings, and superabundant 
energy made the thought of death singularly distaste- 
ful to him. He would never talk about it, and, I 
think, contemplated it as little as possible : when it 



180 LIFE OF SIR CHARLES HALLE 

came he had no knowledge of it at all, and was spared 
all suffering of mind or body, though I feel that had 
it been otherwise he would have borne all with the 
courage, fortitude, and resignation he had shown 
throughout his life whenever pain or misfortune 
came upon him. 

Music, in which my father may be said to have 
been born, which was his ruling passion through life 
and in which he died as he carried his work on to 
within a few hours of his death was to him some- 
thing more than an art : it was a sacred mission. He 
believed that music, which from all time has accom- 
panied man in his strongest moments of joy and 
sorrow, which stirs him to deeds of courage and is 
his ultimate expression of love and praise, is a force 
for good, which cannot be gainsaid. He believed, as 
all lovers of music believe, that it is above the power 
of words in its influence on the spiritual side of man's 
nature, and that many a heart has been stirred to a 
sense of what is good and beautiful through music 
which otherwise might have gone through life uncon- 
scious that such things are. It was this faith that 
made my father's work of such absorbing interest to 
him, and which made him choose as the field of his 
labour those busy manufacturing towns of the north 
of England, where men's lives are spent in work too 
often mere monotonous drudgery, and amid sur- 
roundings of dirt and ugliness such as the world has 
never seen before. To these grimy workers, to these 
makers of ships and of guns, of engines and of fabrics, 
whose ears were wearied by the ceaseless noise of 



THE END 181 

machinery, lie brought the strains of the most ex- 
quisite music ever heard by man, and made them for- 
get, if but for a few minutes, the office and the 
workshop, and remember that existence has other 
things to offer. This was my father's life and work 
for nearly fifty years spent in England. He may 
have had a mistaken idea of the power of music and 
overrated the importance of it as a refining influence 
in men's lives, but he acted from the highest of all 
motives, and the work he did he did thoroughly and 
well. 

On the morning of Friday, October 25, 1895, 
after a few hours' illness, he passed peacefully away. 
Requiescat in pace. 



LETTEBS 



TO HIS PARENTS 
{Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt : June 18, 1836, 10 A.M. 

Beloved Parents, Late last night I arrived here, at last, 
and already I feel compelled to sit down and have a little 
chat with you ; I hope it may do me good ; I then can see 
you standing before me and the hateful distance that separates 
us disappears. As the ship took me away from you, and as 
I gradually lost sight of you, then I first fully realised how 
hard the parting was ; it seemed, and it still seems, like a sad 
dream that I shall not see you, my dear ones, for such a long 
time, and it will be long before I get accustomed to the reality. 
As you stood motionless on the bridge, looking after me, it 
seemed impossible that I should see you and not be near you. 
I felt as if I must break away and fly to you, as if I could 
never separate myself from you ; I should have liked to have 
waved my hand, but I could not move, and I had to bite my 
lips not to cry aloud and expose my tenderest feelings to the 
ridicule of those around me. As you disappeared from my 
sight, I was obliged to sit down, my knees trembled so ; I 
saw and heard nothing more. Oh ! if I could only have seen 
and embraced you once more only once more ; but I was 
taken ever further from you ... A year is short, but far 
from you it seems an eternity. As soon as I found myself 
alone I could not keep back my tears, and I wept aloud ; it 
did me good. You can imagine that the first day of my 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 183 

journey was quite lost to me ; it was impossible to notice my 
surroundings, however beautiful they might be. I thought 
only of you, and always of you ; all your love, all your care 
came back to my remembrance. Now I clearly feel that the 
happiest time of my life is past. I must break off here or I 
shall get too sad. Later I will, if possible, write of indifferent 
things ; only, I implore you, show the above lines to nobody, 
not even to my aunts, for no one understands what I feel for 
you. I had to give vent to my feelings, and if I could only 
say all I feel, you would know how much I love you, but 
I cannot put it into words. 

June 21. 

As you know by the beginning of this letter, I arrived 
here on Friday, the 17th, without accident, at half-past 
nine, tired and exhausted, but now I am quite well. The 
morning after rny arrival, having rested long and taken my 
coffee, I went to the Court apothecary ; Flashoff, however, 
was not there, as he works at a laboratory outside the town. 
I got myself directed, and at last found it after a deal of 
running about. Flashoff welcomed me warmly ; he is a dear, 
kind man, and how glad I am to have him here, you can 
imagine. He was just distilling and could not leave his work, 
so I remained with him until it was finished, which lasted an 
hour. By then it was midday, and as I did not care to get 
to my lodgings just at meal time, I went back to the ' Grapes ' 
with Flashoff ; we ate together, and after dinner went at once 
to my lodging. The old Hofrathin received me very kindly ; 
she had sent twice to Flashoff to inquire if I was coming. I 
am pleased with my rooms. My sitting-room is beautifully 
papered, but the furniture is bad and quite unworthy of the 
walls. My bedroom is not very beautiful, but I shall make 
the best of it ; but how different it was at home, my dear 
ones ! I am perfectly satisfied with the food, and that is the 
principal thing. The best proof that it is good lies in the 
fact that six young men, who are free to go where they please, 
have come here for their meals for years. Also, the Hofrathin 
is highly spoken of by all, and especially, what I most value, 



184 LETTERS 

by our old Rinck. To Mm, now my master, I went on the 
afternoon of the same day. My heart beat a little ; I had 
imagined an old, dry, and perhaps crabbed pedagogue, but 
how pleasantly was I surprised ! He greeted me with the 
most unaffected cordiality and a hearty shake of the hand. He 
is a strong, stately man ; no one would say he was sixty-six 
years of age. I should have said fifty-three or fifty-four. He 
sent at once for a bottle of wine, but I thanked him and 
declined on the ground that I had brought a little cough with 
me from the Rhine, so he drank several glasses alone to your 
good health and to mine. He inquired after you, and charged 
me with his greetings, then he talked of music and of my 
own piano-playing. Through all he said shone the greatest 
goodness of heart. In this first hour of intercourse he won 
my affection. When we had deliberated for an hour upon 
music, and he had spoken of several of his pupils, he said 
that as the weather was beautiful, he would like to take me 
to the prettiest spot near Darmstadt, that I might have a 
good first impression of my present place of sojourn. He 
took his stick, and led me up a steep hill to the Ludwig's- 
hohe, a fine open place on the top of it. This man of sixty- 
six clambered up so quickly it was all I could do to follow 
him. The view from this height is enchanting ; one can see 
five or six different parts of the Rhine, winding through the 
enormous plain, and the towns of Mayence, Worms, Trier, 
Mannheim, and many more. Darmstadt lies at one's feet, on 
one hand the Bergstrasse and on the other the Taunus range 
of hills. But of this also I shall write more in my next. Of 
Rinck only this, that I am to have my first lesson this after- 
noon and that he will give me four lessons a week. 

Now, I have only one piece of work before me which 
I rather dread the unpacking of my trunk. The Frau 
Hofriithin has offered to help me, but I prefer doing it alone, 
for I know what is before me : that every article I take out 
will remind me of all the tender love and all the trouble with 
which you, dear mother, have cared for me ; all the work 
and labour which you have so unweariedly devoted to me will 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 185 

pass before my eyes. Yes, that will be a sad hour for me. 
I had a great deal more to say, but I must soon come to a 
stop for want of room. Now, write to me soon, very soon. I 
shall not feel easy until I have heard from you and have some 
of your dear handwriting before my eyes. Tell me if you 
returned home the same day that we parted, or if you went 
to Bonn how much I wish the latter for you ! You must 
really both of you write, and the two little ones also. Bernard 
will be able to write a word or two himself, and you can 
guide Anna's hand ; I must have something from each of you, 
and you will do it, will you not ? But in order that you can 
write to me, I will give you my address : bei Frau Hofrathin 
Stockhaus, in der Bau Strasse ; you must not forget ' in the 
Bau Strasse,' as there are many Stockhauses here. Now, I 
have one more request, and you must not laugh at me. Tell 
me, in your letter, of one day and hour on which you will 
think for certain of me. Oh ! how happy I should be to be 
able to say : ' Noic, now they are thinking of me at home ! ' 
It will seem as if we were for an hour in our cosy little room 
together : on the sofa you are sitting, dear father, with your 
pipe ; you, dear mother, and I close by ; our two dear little 
ones are on the sofa near my father, and he plays with 
them. Heavens ! when this comes so vividly before me, I 
cannot keep back the tears, and it seems impossible that I 
can bear to be so long separated from you ; my only 
hope is that when I have a great deal to do it may 
distract my thoughts. Now, my dearest parents, and 
you, dear children, lebt alle wolil ! Write to me soon ; 
write all, and grant the request I made above. Also inform 
me how often you will write, and how often I may write to 
you ; remember me to all my relations, to Mr. and Mrs. 
Elbers, and to the whole choral society. I kiss you, dear 
parents, and the children, a thousand times. Write and tell 
me that you dearly love me ; as much as I love you, you 
never can ! I will certainly be industrious, and do all that 
you wish me to do; I know no greater happiness than to 
please you. Now be careful to keep well, but if you are 



186 LETTERS 

in the slightest degree indisposed be sure you write and tell 
me. Now good-bye, father, mother, Bernard, Anna, Aunt 
Lotta, farewell, and think often of your ever loving son and 
brother, CARL HALLE. 

II 

TO HIS PARENTS 
{Translated from the German} 

Darmstadt : July 6, 1836. 

Beloved Parents, Your dear letter caused me indescri- 
bable pleasure, all the more that I had not expected it nearly 
so soon; thanks, a thousand thanks, that you granted my 
request, and all of you wrote. Oh ! how often I have read 
it, and put it by, and then taken it again, thinking I might 
have overlooked something ; bat you might have written 
much smaller and closer together, and made more of the 
small space which, alas ! is all one has for a letter. Take 
example from me ; I could write you a whole ream, and then 
I should not have put down nearly all I had to say. I am 
only sorry that Mino [his dog] was too busy to write to me ; 
I should so have liked to see his handwriting. When I 
first opened your letter I looked at once for the bill of 
health, and only after having found that, thank God, you are 
all well, I began to read the letter through, and now will 
answer all your questions. 

I have overcome my depression by dint of hard work, 
and, in my moments of leisure, by going to Flashoff, whom 
I like more and more. To guard against falling into it 
again, which I know would be bad for me, I have resolved 
not to mention it in my letters, and should I be tempted to 
do so, then I shall say : ' Ab ! fertig ! von oben herunter ! ' 
and stop writing; therefore, no more of it. Next in your 
letter come the greetings to Rinck which I delivered at once, 
and told him that you, dear father, hoped to thank him 
personally, which pleased him greatly ; you were not quite 
unknown to him, he had read your praises in either the 
'Iris' or the 'Eutonia' (two musical papers), neither of 



TO HIS PARENTS. DAKMSTADT, 1836 187 

which you will have seen. Einck promised to send a few 
lines for you to be enclosed in this letter, but should I not 
get them in time, I shall send them with my next. You 
are anxious about my cough, that is quite unnecessary ; it is 
true I had caught a little specimen on the Rhine, but the 
second day after my arrival here I had got rid of it, there- 
fore be quite easy, and rest assured that I have too great a 
fear of falling ill not to be very careful. Had you seen me 
after my journey, you would not have known me, so dread- 
fully sunburnt was I, I looked like a peony, and have not 
yet recovered my fine complexion, for the heat here is terrible ; 
since my arrival it has only rained once, and in this sandy 
desert it ought to rain every other day to be bearable ; it is 
impossible to go out in the daytime, and nobody does so, 
one has to wait for the evening, and even then it is very 
warm. I was very glad to hear that you went to Bonn, as 
I hear from Louis (Flashoff) that there is much worth 
seeing there, so I hope you enjoyed yourselves. I laughed to 
read how you had gone astray from Miihlheim : poor Stolle, 
[the driver], how many donnerwetters he must have heard ! 
I am still quite content with my lodgings and also with the 
food; the latter is really remarkable, as in general in this 
country ; except the peas, which are far from being as good 
as at home, I knew none of the vegetables, and some are 
very curious, but I do not appreciate them ; for instance, 
green turnip-tops ; but I eat well, never fear ; if shyness 
were my greatest fault I should be a very good fellow. I 
will describe my sitting-room a bit : first, it has four fine 
yellow and green-papered walls ; second, three windows with 
beautiful long curtains ; third, against one of the walls 
stands a green, yellow, and black sofa, but I am afraid it is 
stuffed with wood ; before it a small ugly square table ; to 
the left a large stove, to the right a big bureau with many 
drawers, in which I have put all my chattels, except my coats 
and cape, which hang in a wardrobe in my bedroom ; between 
two of the windows hangs a looking-glass, and under it there 
is a small table ; four chairs, very bad ones, covered like the 



188 LETTERS 

sofa, stand about the room, and opposite the sofa, my piano ; 
through Rinck's mediation I have been able to hire it from 
Klosz, the instrument maker, but it is a very bad one ; in 
the upper octaves the tone is atrocious, and in the bass I 
should say it was hellish ; worst of all it does not keep in 
tune, and all the same costs me one Prussian thaler a month ; 
from what I hear (from musicians as well) the piano-maker 
(Vierheller) of this town lends very good instruments on the 
same terms ; if this be true I shall give up the one I have 
after one month ; how Riiick got hold of this Klosz, who is a 
very insignificant maker, I really do not know, but the man 
is poor, has many children, and Rinck has a very good heart. 
That is all very well, but that I should lose all taste for the 
piano out of good-nature would be asking too much. The 
Hofrathin is a most kind and worthy woman, who looks after 
us all seven with almost motherly care ; morning after morn- 
ing she herself brings me a large plate of beautiful cherries 
(the sight of her might almosb take away one's appetite, she 
is such an ugly old donnerwetter). I take my coffee with 
sugar in my own room, but dear Scliwarzlrod, how I miss 
thee ! instead of that I eat two big rolls of white bread, 
which are good also. Dinner takes place punctually at half- 
past twelve, we are generally nine at table, and the saying 
that in a large company one can eat more than in a small 
one is confirmed in my case ; supper is punctually at half- 
past eight, and after it I generally walk up and down in the 
nice garden behind the house ; at ten o'clock I go to bed, 
and get up precisely at six the next morning, as sometimes I 
have my lesson with Rinck at seven, sometimes at eight 
o'clock, which I like very much, as it gives me the whole 
day without a break. Now we come to an important matter, 
the teaching of Rinck ; you want to know my opinion of it ; 
as a whole I cannot yet express an opinion, but can tell you 
that, so far, he pleases me very much ; I will explain his 
method from the beginning, and then you, dear father, can 
judge of it yourself. At the beginning of the first lesson he 
asked if I had studied any other theoretical works besides 



TO HIS PAEENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 189 

Weber's. I told him I had studied no other, but had several 
times read through Helena's ' Theory ' ; this he did not 
know. Then he began (as you had predicted) by writing 
the first lines of the Chorale, ' Kommt, lasst euch den 
Herren lehren,' to which I had to put six, six, I say, different 
basses, and also six different harmonies, five were simple, 
and one a florid bass. Two I finished during the lesson, 
and he was very pleased ; of faults, he only found one or 
two, but he lays a mighty stress upon the flowing movement 
of all the parts, so here and there he had to make some 
changes ; he made everything so clear to me that those who 
say Rinck is hard to understand must be wooden-headed ; he 
repeats everything several times, and then always asks if 
one has understood what he meant. He said he set great 
value upon these exercises (of simple counterpoint), and 
said it would be very good for me to work upon five or six 
chorales in this way. After having worked three, viz. 
' Kommt, lasst euch den Herren lehren,' ' Nun danket alle 
Gott,' and ' Jesus, meine Freude,' in six different four-part 
settings (which was sometimes a head-splitting business ; try 
it for once and put to the notes d, f, e, c, d Six different 
basses) he said I had the four-part harmony so well at com- 
mand that we need no longer devote our time to it. We 
had given four lessons to it, viz. one week. Then he gave 
me four-part modulations, in four-bar phrases, to be done, 
like the chorales in the strictest style, from C major by 
progressive fifths to C sharp major, therefore from C to G, 
G to D, D to A, and so on, and then from C sharp major 
back to C major ; then from F major in the same way to 
G flat major, viz. from F to B, B to E flat major, and so on, 
and back again ; then through all the minor keys, on the 
understanding that all must be different from each other. 
That was also a difficult task, it was as if I had to make 
thirty-two different modulations from C major to G major, or 
from A minor to E minor (by ascending fifths), and just as 
many different ones from F major to B major, or from 
D minor to G minor (by descending fifths) ; all hte same, I 



190 LETTEKS 

finished all those sixty-four modulations so quickly that they 
only occupied two lessons (which means I did them at home, 
and only showed them at the lessons). This exercise has 
given me great facility in four-part writing as well as in the 
modulations, for I had to modulate in every possible fashion 
in order to be always different. He was very pleased, and 
assured me he had not believed me to be so well advanced ; 
he found little to alter, and that of an unimportant nature. 
Then we went on to imitations ; after giving me a very clear 
and intelligible explanation of what was meant by the term 
(which I knew already), he wrote a little example of five or 
six bars in further elucidation, spoke, but only for the 
moment, in passing, of ' stretto,' inversion and double counter- 
point ; then, at the end of the lesson, set me, as a task to do 
at home, to invent, even if only five or six bars, in which I 
should introduce an imitation in the octave. I sat down at 
home, took the following two bars 



Allegro. 




as a proposition, and made a composition of two and a half 
pages, in which, at my own instigation, I employed everything 
he had mentioned in passing, but of which I knew something 
before viz. the ' stretto,' an inversion, and the double counter- 
point in the octave he was immensely pleased, and whilst 
looking through it said repeatedly' Good, very good ! ' Then 
he gave me a theme of three bars, which I had to work out 
in the same way, but this time to imitate at the fifth ; out of 
these I managed to fabricate three pages, working them in 
every possible way. With this he was even more content, 
saying he considered this exercise the most pro6table of all ; 
I should, therefore, do altogether six two-part, which are the 
most difficult, several three-part, and several four-part exer- 
cises of this kind, and then we should go on at once to the 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 191 

fugue, which he said was not very different from these imita- 
tions. Five two-part exercises are at this moment finished ; 
in the last one I showed him he found very little to change 
and nothing to blame. Besides all this he gave me the words 
for a Motet, which should contain first a chorus, then a 
quartet, and a final chorus with a fugue, for soprano, alto, 
tenor, and bass, without accompaniment. I have nearly 
finished it, and am wondering how it will please him ; if you 
like, I will send you some of my work ; consult Uncle Koch * 
as to how I shall manage about the postage. This is a true 
account of my studies up to the present. What pleases me 
best about Einck is that he insists so much upon practical 
exercises, and thinks very little of mere theory ; also, that he 
does not cling too much to the old rules : thus, he only for- 
bids consecutive fifths when two greater fifths follow each 
other, one greater and one smaller fifth he willingly allows 
that is to say, in several-part writing, for in two-parts it 
always sounds badly his chief motto is : Lay no fetters upon 
Art. He is also very obliging : he is lending me the 
' Cecilia,' the older volumes that I had not read, as well as the 
new ones, also the ' Iris ' and ' Eutonia,' and of his music he 
lends me all I wish for. One thing more, during a walk 
Ptinck asked me what my plans were after leaving here (N.B. 
he has now given me the fullest assurance that it will not be 
necessary for me to remain six months with liim). I told him 
our intention was that 1 should go to Paris from here ; of this 
he highly approved, and promised to give me letters of intro- 
duction to Cherubini and Meyerbeer, whom he knows very 
well, the latter especially, and he will strongly recommend 
me to both ; you will rejoice at this as much as I ; a letter 
from Rinck to these two would be of the greatest use to me, for 
Cherubini is the Director of the Conservatoire, and you know 
how great the fame of Meyerbeer is just now in Paris. He 
will also give me letters to Ferdinand Hiller and other 
celebrated composers, whose names I cannot at present 
remember. 

1 The postmaster of Hagen. 



192 LETTERS 

. . . The first letter I delivered at Darmstadt was the one 
to Fraulein Mangold. The first reception was so dry and formal 
that I went home quite out of humour, but yesterday 1 was 
invited to a large party, where I enjoyed myself greatly. I 
made the acquaintance of Kapellmeister Mangold, of Concert- 
meister Mangold (an excellent violoncellist), and of two other 
Mangolds, one of them a very good violinist, and who, accord- 
ing to Rinck, must be quite a genius ; there were several other 
gentlemen and many ladies. I had to play several times, and 
the two Mangolds and I have agreed often to play duets and 
trios together. The Kapellmeister, a very nice man, at once 
made the proposal, if I wished to attend the rehearsals of 
the orchestra, that I should go any morning at 10 o'clock to 
the Court Theatre. I went this morning, and my joy was 
quite indescribable. The orchestra consists of more than 
sixty members ; they play like angels, I have never heard 
anything like it, and I must describe it more closely another 
time. To-day they played Beethoven's ' Eroica Symphony ' 
that is, indeed, a mighty composition at times an icy cold 
shiver ran through me, but more of this later. Gottfried Weber 
received me very Idndlij (more of this later). Thank Mr. 
Thieme especially for both his letters, he has given me two 
very pleasant acquaintances by them, and please tell him I 
shall soon keep my promise and write to him about both 
persons. Now, my dear ones, farewell ; you, dear father, do 
not work too hard, and take care of your health one and all, 
that we may all happily meet again. I promise faithfully 
that your loving admonitions shall not prove fruitless ; never, 
I promise you, shall you grieve over my conduct. Greet 
Aunt Altgelt and all my relations, and kiss the little ones a 
thousand times. Your loving son 

CARL HALLE. 

N.B. Write very soon and closer together, and more. 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 193 

III 

TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt : July 23, 1836. 

... I feel quite convinced that I can leave here at the end of 
three months, but Ririck has gone into the country for a week, 
so I could not give him your letter, nor can I tell you any- 
thing definite. During my last lesson, in the course of con- 
versation, we spoke of Mangold, the violinist's, departure for 
Vienna in the middle of September, when Kinck said that I 
could go to Paris at ike same time. Should he return to- 
morrow, which I do not expect, I shall be able to give you 
more positive news. I am very glad you asked him to give 
me a letter of introduction to Kalkbrenner ; he does not know 
him personally, but I think he will give me the letter. I 
have ordered a metronome at Schott's for Mr. Elbers, and 
received notice to-day that it had been sent off, but I did not 
ask them for an introduction to Kalkbrenner as you suggested, 
Binck having promised to ask them for several letters for Paris 
for me, and, if he does so, it will have more weight ; I shall also 
ask him if he thinks Schott can help me to find a lodging in 
Paris. If Ilinck comes back to-morrow I shall be able to tell 
you further of this also ; otherwise please write to me at once, 
so that I may answer you soon ; we must not delay, time passes 
so quickly that I can hardly believe I have been here six 
weeks. I shall certainly not go to Geisenheim, partly be- 
cause I grudge the expense, but chiefly because it would 
interfere too much with my work. So, dear father, all your 
questions are answered. I am only surprised that you do not 
say a word as to how you likecl Rinck's method of teaching, 
which I so fully explained ; please do not forget to give me 
your opinion of it in your next. 

Now for your letter, dear mother : you begin by telling me 
that I must always be merry and cheerful I do my utmost to 
obey the injunction, and I succeed pretty well. I have a good 
many diversions here, especially through my intercourse with 





194 LETTERS 

the Mangolds. Do not be afraid that I work too hard ; no, what 
Hinck gives me to do I can easily get through without too much 
effort. I take a walk every day, generally towards evening. I 
have a better piano, and although I cannot call it good, it is a 
hundred per cent, better than the first old rattletrap, but I 
have to pay 15 kreutzers a month more for it. The great 
heat ceased so suddenly that it is almost cool now, and one 
Las to be careful not to catch cold unawares, so I did catch a 
cold in my head, which only lasted a day. When I read 
Uncle Koch's letter I feared that Dr. Elbers was dead, and 
your confirmation of my fear has grieved me very much. 
For God's sake, beware of that dreadful smallpox, and let me 
know if there are more cases at Hagen. I cannot write to 
Mr. Elbers to-day, I really have no time, and should not 
like to send him a mere hasty scrawl, but in my next I shall 
certainly enclose a few lines to him. Your greetings to my 
amiable Hofrathin, to Rinck, and to Louis Flashoff I have 
already delivered, and am charged by all three heartily to 
return them. 

Now, your letter also is answered, dear mother, and here 
comes my own mustard. But first I am going to take a 
little walk, in the Grand Ducal Park forsooth, and there, 
over a slice of cherry tart of a most delicate sort, shall 
meditate on what to say to you. So here you can make a 
pause, and wait until I have eaten my cake and have re- 
turned to my wood-stuffed sofa. ... I will begin by telling 
you how I was received by Gottfried Weber. A few days 
after my arrival I went to his house at eleven o'clock in the 
morning, and was fortunate enough to find him ; when. I had 
given him Schott's letter, he kindly bade me sit down ; 
whilst he was reading it I had a good look at him. Weber 
is a tall, strong-looking man, with a round, full face, very 
yellow and much scarred. He wore a large dressing-gown, 
a voluminous cravat tied loosely round his neck, and a white 
night-cap, which he never removed, as he has a perfectly 
bald head (so, at least, it seemed to me). When he had 
read the letter, he welcomed me once more, and asked if I 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 195 

had begun my lessons with Einck. I told him I had only 
had one so far, and then I had to relate all that Rinck had 
made me do, with which he was much satisfied, and praised 
him for always proceeding to practise at once. He then 
asked if I had already composed much. I said no ; not 
much as yet. He told me that was riot right; that one 
ought to compose a great deal from the first, and could study 
the so-called thorough-bass style at any time. At the words, 
' so-called thorough-bass style,' the fellow put on so sublime 
a sneer, that his face must have looked just so whilst he was 
writing his abuse of the thorough-bass style in his theory of 
music. After a little further talk, he asked what I intended 
to do after leaving Darmstadt, and when I told him of my 
plan of going to Paris, he said he envied me. He invited 
rne to come and see him often, but so far I have not been 
able to go again, and he also has been out of town. On 
Monday or Tuesday I shall certainly go and try and sound 
him whether he would give me a letter for Kalkbrenner, 
should Rinck not do so. I go to the Mangolds nearly every 
day. Carl Mangold, the violinist, and I have become inti- 
mate friends, and as often as we are together, we play duets ; 
sometimes, with the addition of an excellent violoncellist from 
the Court apothecary, no ! I mean from the Court orchestra, 
we play trios. I have thus got acquainted with many works 
hitherto unknown to me ; for instance, I now know all 
Beethoven's sonatas for piano and violin, nearly all his trios, 
further, six trios by Reicha, and three trios by Prince 
Ferdinand of Prussia, which are very fine, and many other 
things besides. The 'cellist, Wiihelm Mangold, who has no 
piano at his rooms, but lives just opposite to me, often comes 
over with his bass tucked under his arm, and then we play 
double sonatas by Beethoven, Onslovv, &c., to our hearts' 
content. 

That under these conditions I feel quite in my element 
you will easily believe. Next week we shall also play 
quartets and quintets with pianoforte. On August 25 there 
is to be a great concert in aid of the Beethoven moiiu- 



196 LETTERS 

ment, which will take place in the theatre, and probably last 
two days. 

The Grand Ducal Kapelle is now in full rehearsal ; none 
but Beethoven's compositions are to be performed. As often 
as I can find time, I go in the morning to the theatre to hear 
the rehearsal. I have now heard the ' Eroica ' and the de- 
licious Pastoral symphonies so often that I know them 
almost by heart ; still, I go again and again, as I can never 
hear them enough. Now they are studying the great sym- 
phony with chorus, which I am most curious to hear. Such 
precision I had never heard in an orchestra, and had never 
thought it possible that such fine nuances could be obtained 
from such a numerous body ; even the smallest indications 
were observed. They succeeded admirably in those cres- 
cendos which suddenly pass into piano, which are found 
almost exclusively in Beethoven's works. To be sure, Man- 
gold, the conductor, takes enormous pains, one may say that 
he is indefatigable ; for instance, at several rehearsals, before 
taking the whole orchestra together, he takes the first violins 
with only two of the other stringed instruments, and 
thoroughly drums their part into the first violinists, then 
he does the same with the second violins, with the violas, 
and with the 'cellos and five double-basses; thereby the 
quartet gets so perfect that you do not hear a single false 
note. The pizzicato is also something quite exquisite. In 
Beethoven's ' Eroica ' symphony there is a great deal of 
pizzicato^ even whole runs in unison, but I was never able to 
detect one instrument arriving a little late ; each time it 
came like a spark, and the effect was most extraordinary. 

I had almost forgotten one thing, about which Carl 
Mangold gives me no peace, and which I have promised to 
write to you about. He goes in the middle of September to 
Vienna, and absolutely insists upon my going with him there 
instead of to Paris. He says there are as many pianists in 
Vienna as at Paris, and that one has more opportunities of 
hearing great works, oratorios especially, than in Paris (this 
I doubt). Further, that it would be good for us both to 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 197 

study composition again (he is going to take lessons from 
Seyfried, especially in free style, although he has studied 
harmony for years with his brother the Kapellmeister, who 
had worked three years under Cherubini, and, either before 
or after, with Spontini ; he is exceedingly industrious, for a 
whole year composed a fugue every day, and has acquired 
such facility that he can produce a beautiful fugue in a 
quarter of an hour). However agreeable this would be, and 
however much I should like to continue my intercourse with 
one whose devotion, heart and soul, to music is greater than 
I ever met with before, and, indeed, passes all belief, I still 
prefer to go to Paris, and believe it would be more useful to 
me. Therefore, dear father, I beg you, in your next letter, 
to put forward some good reasons why you prefer that I 
should go to Paris, which I can read to him, as I have 
always told him the decision rested entirely with you, and 
have never shown myself averse from the project ; for when 
we are together I could wish to stay together always, and 
still, I would sooner go to Paris. Moreover, the cholera is 
at Vienna, certainly a good reason for you, dear mother, to 
insist upon my not going there. 

I intended to tell you a delightful anecdote that I have 
remembered since Mayence, but I have too little room, so 
must keep it to myself for the present. I notice that through 
having to put off from one letter to another, things I wished 
to tell you, I end by forgetting them, so if you remember 
anything you wish to hear about, ask for it in your next 
letter. . . . 

IV 

TO HIS PARENTS 
( Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt : August 15, 1836. 

Beloved Parents, If I were to delay any longer writing 
to you, you might end by becoming anxious again ; I there- 
fore sit down to write, if not a long letter, at least whatever 
of importance I may have to tell you. 



198 LETTERS 

I cannot understand how it is I have so little spare time ; 
I get through the work Rinck gives me so quickly, that if I 
did nothing else, I believe I could be very idle ; but I have 
borrowed from the Free Library (which contains many good 
works) Reicha's big book on Theory, also the ' French 
Musical Review,' by Professor Fetis, which is not only ex- 
ceedingly instructive, but good exercise in French ; then the 
scores of several of Beethoven's symphonies, for which I have 
a ravenous appetite ; then I am overwhelmed with music 
which people send me to look through, and expect me to 
play it to them afterwards ; added to this comes the duet, 
trio, quartet, quintet, and septet playing, and the orchestra 
rehearsals which I hardly ever miss ; I could add several other 
items to the list, and it leaves me scarcely any time for letter- 
writing ; one has to take a walk occasionally to get a breath 
of fresh air, which is rather scarce here ; in short, if you con- 
sider all this, you will not take it ill if I do not write so often. 

I have now copied for you, my dear father, my motet, and 
the first movement of a trio for violin, viola, and violoncello, 
which I have just finished, and that is why my letter is shorter 
than the previous ones, as I still have to work for Rinck. 

I was exceedingly delighted, last Thursday week, at eight 
o'clock in the morning, to see old Giinther suddenly enter my 
room. I had not expected him in the least ; he spent about 
an hour with me, gave me a great deal of news and your 
letter, dear father ; you might, however, with so excellent an 
opportunity, have sent me more than one letter. At nine o'clock 
we went off together to Rinck, who was hugely pleased to see 
his old friend and countryman. We spent a very pleasant 
morning with Rinck, breakfasted with him, and were invited 
by his wife to dinner next day. That dinner, and the after- 
noon that followed it, were the most enjoyable that I had had 
for a loner time ; better-hearted people than the whole Rinck 
family would certainly be hard to find ; and the whole con- 
versation at table was as merry as it was interesting ; Rinck 
was in excellent vein, and told us a great deal about his 
musical opinions. 



TO HIS PARENTS. DAEMSTADT, 1836 199 

Your health was often toasted, and Rinck said at least 
twenty times : ' Xow all I wish is that old Mr. Halle were 
with us.' After dinner I had to play something; Rinck had 
not yet heard me. I first played the variations on ' Am 
Rhein ! Am Rhein ! ' and I must saj I had not played so well 
for a long time. That I had pleased Rinck, I guessed by the 
way he shook hands with me when I had finished; ' God pre- 
serve you,' was all he said. When I had rested a little, I had 
to play again, and this time I chose the first movement of 
Kalkbrenner's concerto, which pleased him very much. 

At four o'clock, Giinther, one of the Court orchestra named 
Soistmarm, an old friend of Giinther's who had come to see 
him there, and I, left Rinck's, took a walk, and then went to 
an inn and drank a couple of glasses of most excellent 
Bavarian beer in the garden (since then, I have often been to 
this inn, it is called the artists' tavern, as only musicians, 
painters, and such-like rogues frequent it, only artistic topics 
are handled there, and generally in a most interesting fashion) ; 
there we stayed until ten o'clock, when friend Giinther started 
in the post-chaise for Heidelberg. 1 was very sorry I could 
not keep him here any longer, but he would not hear of it. 
I very much doubt if he will cany out the journey he had 
planned, as he already seemed in two minds about it. 

Now for my Paris project. Rinck will write, as you will see 
by his enclosed letter, without fail to Kalkbrenner, as soon as 
he receives his address from Schott, to whom he wrote a fort- 
night ago, but as yet has had no answer, Schott being very 
dilatory in things outside his own business matters. We 
have both heard, and from, different sources, that there may 
be difficulties in being taken as a pupil, as Kalkbrenner 
gives very few lessons, but we hardly believe that he will 
refuse the first request of Rinck, whom he knows well by 
reputation. Should he, however, refuse, I shall still go to 
Paris, as Rinck advises, on the chance of taking lessons with 
Hiller, Liszt, or Chopin ; Hiller seems to be, according to 
what I have read in the ' Revue Musicale,' a tremendous per- 
former, but simple and sincere. With him I could hardly 



200 LETTERS 

fail, as lie is an intimate friend of Rinck, and would not refuse 
him. On the whole I am not in the least afraid ; there are so 
many first-rate pianists in Paris, that I shall certainly find 
one amongst the number who will give me lessons. But I 
do not doubt in the least that Kalkbrenner will accept me. 
I have also spoken to Rinck about a lodging, and I shall now 
tell you what I intend to do. I shall not write and ask 
Schott to find one for me ; I have just told you that he has 
kept Rinck waiting a fortnight for an answer, so you can 
imagine how long he would be about this ; before he had 
written to Paris and received an answer, and I had sent that 
answer to you, the six weeks I still have to remain here 
would have vanished. Rinck gives me letters to Schlesinger, 
the music-seller, to the Abbe Mainzer (his pupil), and to 
several other persons (besides the musical potentates), and is 
procuring others from Schott. Louis Flashoff also gives me 
two letters for friends of his from Essen who are in Paris ; one 
of them I know personally since the time I was at Essen. . . . 
By this post you will receive Rinck's latest work, which 
he sends you as a little remembrance. He said it was only a 
trifle, but he hoped you would accept it as a token of his 
friendship. You will see that all the little preludes, especially 
in the second volume, are charmingly worked out, and in the 
whole collection there is a greal deal of original and flowing 
melody. In such work, and in such work only, is Rinck 
really great, otherwise he is rather one-sided ; he has a few 
phrases and figures which he introduces into all his works, so 
if one knows a few of them and knows them well, one can 
recognise a work of his at once. I still like his teaching, bnt 
I see now that it could be a good deal better. If Rinck takes 
a pupil from the very beginning, he must create a Babylonian 
confusion in his head, so wanting in method is his teaching ; 
he jumps quite without order from one subject to another ; 
to-day he takes one thing, to-morrow another. I understand 
him perfectly, because none of the subjects were quite un- 
known to rrie, and I rather like this habit of his, as it has 
made me do a little of everything during these three months, 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 201 

and will enable me to work by myself in Paris ; but had I 
known nothing but what Rinck has taught me, I should have 
fared ill. 

This may appear to you a contradiction of what I said in 
my second letter, but it really is not so, for, as far as I am 
concerned, I do like his method. The motet and trio I 
send you have Rinck's approval ; in the trio he has not altered 
a single note, and I have written an Adagio to the same, as 
well as a motet for four male voices, but it will be impossible 
for me to copy either of them, for you whilst I am at 
Darmstadt. 

I beg you to show both things to our dear friend Atteau 
(to whom I send greetings, and a request that he will write 
to me), and then both of you criticise severely, and let me 
know what you disapprove of and what yon like. You might 
have the trio written out so that you can try it over, but then 
I beg you to play it very softly and pay attention to every 
little sign, or else the effect is lost (the two half-notes in the 
seventh and eleventh bars must be played on one string and 
nicely drawn together). As you have now got a metronome, 
I shall just hunt about and see if I can find one here, to be 
able to indicate the time to you. In the middle movement 
in D of the trio you may relax the time a little, and this 
movement must be very well executed, and the crescendo on 
the first six notes well brought out. In the motet, the Adagio 
should be well sustained and sung with feeling. Rinck told 
me that the ' Holy, Holy,' in the third and fifth bars for 
tenor and bass might have been omitted ; I have left them in 
to have your opinion. Now farewell, dear parents, I embrace 
you, and you will kiss the little ones for me. Greet all my 
relations and friends, and excuse me to those to whom I 
ought to have written. Write soon, but at greater length 
than the last time, to your loving son, 

CARL HALLE. 

N.B. Between September 18 and 25 I shall start for 
Paris. 



202 LETTERS 



TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt: September 8, 1836. 

My dearest Parents, In a few words I shall just tell you 
that I am still quite well, have safely received your letters, 
thank you heartily for the same, that I shall do all you 
recommend, that I am studying hard, practising harder (for 
very good reasons), moreover enjoying myself amazingly, 
have during the past two months made a number of pleasant 
and interesting acquaintances, am received in the best society, 
am much feted, and lastly that I am sorry and glad to be 
going away from here again. ' These are the points I propose 
for your consideration during this sacred hour, but first let 
us, etc., etc.' I began by telling you that I was in good 
health, that is incontrovertible, so I need dwell no longer 
upon that point, but go on to the next. Your letters are all 
safely to hand. I found them at midnight on the 28th of 
last month, on my return home after a brilliant tea and 
supper party. I opened them at once, but delayed reading 
them until the next morning, my mind, head, and inside 
being still too replete with the varied pleasures of the even- 
ing. Bernard's letter pleased me best ; I was so glad to see 
the advance he had made in writing ; his style is very 
expressive. That I thank Aunt Schulz most heartily for her 
humorous letter is self-understood ; that I do not answer it is 
not self-understood, but as soon as I get to Paris I shall try 
to make up for all deficiencies ; there I shall probably have 
much more time at my disposal than I have here, as I shall 
most likely only take one piano lesson a week ; first, because 
I do not think I shall need more than one ; and secondly, 
because they are sure to be barbarously dear. Rinck told me 
lately that a guitar-player from here, and only a middling 
one, gave lessons in Paris, and got six francs an hour, which 
makes 1 thaler 18 g. If that be true if a middling lesson 
on a coffee-roaster cost so dear, what may not a pianoforte 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 203 

potentate charge ? I shall therefore but halt, I see I have 
got off the road, and must make a big leap to get back to 
my forsaken Aunt Schulz. So, dear little aunt, or rather 
long aunt, should you perchance put your nose into this 
letter, do not be angry with me, do not be scandalised at my 
ill-breeding. Cornelius Fliiss (ex-Doctor of Philosophy at 
Haspe r ) I also sincerely thank for his second letter. This 
time I was satisfied with the length of it, but even at the 
risk of being called an ass, I cannot answer him now. I 
shall do so from Paris, and describe all its wonders, which I 
hope will satisfy him. ... I am studying hard, and for the 
past few weeks have worked at nothing but fugues, at first 
three-part, and now four-pai*t fugues, and shall do nothing else 
whilst I am here. Rinck's teaching pleases me less and less, 
but Rinck himself I like better and better. I practise harder 
and harder, and have bought some new music for instance, 
Kalkbrenner's Effasio Mitsica, undisputably his best work, and 
Chopin's Variations on ' La ci darem ' from ' Don Giovanni.' 
This is so dreadfully difficult, that I have to study it bar by bar, 
but I think that when I have overcome the difficulties (which 
will probably take a long time) I shall find it to be one of 
the most delightful works I know. These variations are far 
from being considered among his most difficult works, from 
which God preserve us ! 

My life here is exceedingly pleasant ; it is quite a new 
existence for me. The most delightful hours are those I 
spend in the house of Mr. von Ploennies (medizinalratJi). 
One meets the whole artist-world of Darmstadt there: 
painters, musicians, poets all artists are welcome. I have 
made many interesting acquaintances there, first among them 
Ed. Duller the writer, who lives here ; also a Doctor of 
Philosophy named Kringel, quite a young man, whom I shall 
meet again this winter in Paris. I was introduced by 
Kapellmeister Mangold, and since then have been invited 
several times a week to grand tea and other parties. A 
striking elegance reigns in the house, which is a little 
1 Small village near Hagen. 



204 LETTERS 

embarrassing at first, but one's shyness is soon dissipated by 
the cheerful and easy tone which one hardly expects to find 
allied with such magnificence. The central point towards 
which all converges is certainly Mrs. von Ploennies. She is 
a distinguished poetess, and moreover a very handsome and 
most amiable lady, who enlivens the whole conversation. At 
these parties the entertainment is most varied ; either Duller 
or Mrs. von Ploennies reads one of their latest compositions, 
then there is music. I have had to play each time, on a very 
fine grand piano, only a little hard to play on ; duets and 
quartets are sung, and so on ; all this to a flowing accom- 
paniment of wine and punch, whilst the palate is also most 
delicately catered for. I always return home very well 
pleased from one of these parties. You can therefore believe 
that I am sorry to be going away so soon ; but as regards 
my studies I am glad, for 1 shall have time in Paris to chew 
the cud of all I have devoured so quickly in these three 
months with Hinck. Now my paper is coming to an end, 
and, par consequence, I must soon end also ; it is time that I 
returned to my fugue ; but I must first, dear father, answer 
your little observation on my trio. You say that in the first 
movement one hears nothing of the key of D. That was a 
gigantic oversight. If you will put on a pair of musical 
spectacles, you will find that the whole second part of the 
first movement is in D major. I am soon expecting your and 
Atteau's criticism on both my compositions. 

Now, dearest parents, lebt recht wold. . . . Your ever 
loving CARL. 

VI 

TO HERR ELBERS 
{Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt : September 23, 1836. 

Highly honoured Herr Elbers, I was very delighted and 
surprised, on opening the last letter from my parents, to 
recognise, among the different letters they enclosed, one in 
your honoured hand, though at the same time I felt abashed 



TO HERR ELBERS. DARMSTADT, 1836 205 

that through my unpardonable neglect I had omitted to be 
the first to write, in order to give you an account of all my 
doings here ; so I read myself a severe lecture and made a 
long face at myself for the rest of the day. Excuses I have 
none. All the reasons I could give such as too much work, 
&c. when seen in the right light, come to nothing. There- 
fore, 1 can only humbly ask your pardon, which, out of the 
great and undeserved affection you have always shown and 
proved to me, I confidently hope that you will grant. 

At present, before leaving Darmstadt, I can only thank 
you for your kind letter and the good advice and welcome 
news that it contained, as well, most especially, for the letters 
of introduction you were good enough to send. To write you 
a long letter just now would be impossible, for I am sur- 
rounded by a most confused chaos (but not one out of Haydn's 
' Creation ') as I am busy packing, and though, now and then, 
I feel pretty comfortable in such moments of great disorder, 
the comfort is not lasting. I have also some farewell visits 
to make (a tiresome business !), and my passport to get. So 
you see that I have not much time at command. 

I can only, therefore, tell you briefly that the three 
months I have spent here have passed very happily. I have 
made many and very pleasant acquaintances, especially with 
several members of the most excellent Court Orchestra. One 
of them, a first-rate violoncellist called Mangold, I have often 
played duets with, thus carrying on what I had begun with you 
at Hagen. The Court Orchestra, which contains from sixty 
to seventy musicians, is rather given to be idle during the 
summer months, but, luckily for rne, since my arrival there 
have been rehearsals every morning from 10 to 1 o'clock 
for two concerts in aid of the Beethoven monument, which 
have just lately taken place. I have there heard Beethoven's 
masterpieces, his symphonies, the second act of ' Fidelio,' 
and his fantasia for pianoforte, orchestra, solos, and chorus, 
given in the highest perfection. You will believe that 
it was in the highest perfection when I tell you that the 
Kapelle, certainly one of the best in Germany, has, for a 



20G LETTERS 

quarter of a year, studied these works regularly three hours 
a day. 

I now clearly see that Beethoven's works are not, as it is 
usually considered, only capable of being appreciated by con- 
noisseurs, but, when thus interpreted, even the musically 
uneducated who have minds in the least susceptible, must be 
impressed by them as by every work of the highest art. 

I should be glad to speak with you more minutely about 
those performances, but I feel my incapacity to describe these 
sublime works of art with my pen, or to give the faintest idea 
of the impression that they made upon me. Therefore I shall 
remain silent, and reserve all I could possibly say for future 
verbal intercourse with you. 

As to llinck's method of teaching, I shall write to you 
fully when I am quietly settled in Paris. For himself person- 
ally, my worthy and never-to-be-forgotten master and friend, 
he is easily to be described. If you imagine the greatest 
goodness of heart shining through every feature and every 
act, combined with the greatest candour and simplicity of 
manner, and therewith, even in old age, an undimmed and 
glowing love of his art, you have his perfect picture. Certainly, 
seldom or never was a master more beloved by all his pupils. 
I have to thank him specially for introducing me to the artist 
world of Paris, through letters to Meyerbeer, Mainzer, Hiller, 
Schlesinger, and others. I now stand at the point for which 
I have been longing, when I shall come into contact with 
such celebrated members of the world of art. I am going to 
Paris with the highest expectations. What may happen to 
me there, how I shall be received, by whom I shall be taught, 
I shall in due course fully describe to you. Now my trunk 
calls me, and leaves me only time to beg you to recall me to 
the remembrance of your honoured wife, and to present my 
humble respects to her. Farewell, dear Mr. Elbers, and 
when next you have an hour of leisure, then pray give me 
the great pleasure of another letter from your hand. Some- 
times remember in the far distance your devoted and obliged 
friend, CARL HALLE. 



TO HIS PARENTS. DARMSTADT, 1836 207 

VII 

TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German) 

Darmstadt : September 23, 1836. 

Beloved Parents, To fulfil my promise of writing again 
before leaving Darmstadt, I sit down in the greatest haste to 
give you tidings of my perfect health and that I start to- 
morrow morning at 6 o'clock. I have barely five minutes to 
do it in, so do not take it amiss if these lines are very short. 
I am invited to dinner for the last time at the Mangolds (I 
dined with Rinck yesterday and enjoyed myself to my heart's 
content), and this afternoon I have several tiresome farewell 
calls to pay. With Louis' help I have luckily got my port- 
manteau packed. I have nothing contraband, my passport is 
in order, so I shall pass the frontier without difficulty. I 
have received the eighty R. thalers, which I shall change at 
Frankfort for Napoleons d'or. I return you my most hearty 
thanks for all the letters you have sent me. They will 
certainly be of great use to me. Everything that you have 
advised in your last letters I have either already accomplished 
or shall fulfil, therefore it is unnecessary to mention each 
separately. Now I can write no more ; all further news from 
Paris. Only one thing : Do not be in the least anxious if 
my next letter is a little slow in arriving. I cannot write 
before I am settled in Paris, and the journey takes more than 
eight days, so my writing will be perforce delayed. But I 
stipulate that you answer my first Paris letter, at the latest, 
eight days after receiving it, else I shall think it lost and 
write to you again, and that would be a double postage. As 
to the address, I shall do as Uncle Koch advises. And now 
farewell, dear parents ; wish me a happy journey, greet my 
uncle and aunts, kiss the little ones many thousand times, 
and continue to love your loving son, CARL. 

N.B. Pdnck intends to write to you again within the next 
eight days, but do not build upon it; he says himself that he 
would sooner compose a long fugue than a short letter. Adieu ! 



208 LETTERS 

VIII 

TO HIS PARENTS 
( Translated from the German} 

Paris : October, 183G. 

My dearest Parents, At last I Lave arrived in good 
health and safety in this huge Paris ! am already established 
in a lodging, have hired a piano, and in short am quite 
settled. All I shall tell you of my journey is, that I rested a 
day and a night at Metz, and just as long at Chalons, that I 
am none the worse, but rather fatigued and stiff, as one can- 
not help being after such a journey. This must be my whole 
description of it, as I have more important things to tell 
you, and especially to you, dear father viz. about money 
matters. I shall explain everything fully, and then beg you 
to enter into it as fully in your answer. 

The night before I left Darmstadt Ilinck received an 
answer from Schlesinger, of Paris, which was very unsatis- 
factory on the whole ; he said nothing at all about Kalk- 
brenner, and as to Chopin and Liszt, that they took pupils, 
but were both very much occupied. At the end of the letter 
he said : ' Living here is rather costly, but if a young man is 
economical he can live w r ell for 200 frs. a month.' You can 
easily understand that this gave me a great shock, but as I 
heard at the same time that Schlesinger lived in great style 
in Paris (which is a fact), and perhaps judged of others by 
himself, I took comfort. Now that I am here, I see that it 
is not the living that is so dear, but. what with lessons, hire 
of piano, &c., that it will not be possible for me to manage 
on less than 200 frs. a month. This will give you as little 
pleasure as it gives me ; but above all, do not think that I 
would treat it lightly far from it. All my good-humour has 
gone to the deuce. I will explain more clearly how it is that 
I need so much. You know that, unfortunately, I am not 
very robust, and therefore require good and wholesome food. 
Now I hear from all sides that it would be very cheap to dine 
at restaurants, but that I must not be surprised if I am some- 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 209 

times ill in consequence, as they do not cook fresh food every 
day, but often warm up what is left, even when it is half-spoilt. 
To get food and lodging in a private house is impossible here, 
as I am told, so I have taken a room in this hotel, the land- 
lady being a German, and dine at the table d'hote, which is 
very good without being brilliant rather like home cooking, 
my board and lodging coming to 100 frs. a month. This, 
according to Tilemann and Rumpe, is very cheap for Paris (in 
Prussian money it is 26 thalers 26 gr.). Now, I have no 
wood for the winter, which seems to be frightfully dear, and 
here neither coal nor turf is used. Then there is the washing. 
What these two last may cost I do not yet know. Piano 
hire is exceedingly expensive. As I am here for the purpose 
of studying the piano, I had to get, if not a good one, at 
least not a very bad one. I have found a tolerable instru- 
ment for 20 frs. a month ; I could get none cheaper, even 
the worst were 15 frs. a month. Here we have come to 
120 frs. Now for the lessons. How much they will cost I 
do not yet know. Kalkbrenner comes back at the end of 
this week, and I shall go to him at once. It is still doubtful, 
however, whether he will give me lessons. It seems he is 
enormously rich, and troubles himself very little with teach- 
ing ; but I still have hope. Chopin and Liszt charge 20 frs. 
a lesson; Kalkbrenner, as I have heard, only 10 to 12 frs.; 
but I do not know if he makes an exception in favour of 
those who are studying professionally. Should he take 10 frs., 
if I go to him twice a week, as you desired, it will make 
80 frs. a month, which, added to the 120, comes to a total of 
200 frs. That leaves me not a penny of pocket money to 
go to the theatre and hear the great operas. This calculation 
certainly tends to destroy one's courage. There remains one 
hope for me that of giving lessons. Here in Paris, the 
most second-rate lessons are paid 5 frs. an hour, and good 
teachers easily get from 8 to 12 frs. a lesson. Should I 
succeed in finding a few pupils, I could manage very well 
without greater sacrih'ces. Mainzer told me that four weeks 
ago he had been asked for a teacher for two pupils, who would 

P 



210 LETTERS 

have paid 12 frs. Had I been here I could have got them. 
At the same time he told me they were rare, as the competi- 
tion was so very keen. As soon as he hears of any more he 
will let me know. Perhaps I shall succeed when I am a little 
better known here, for which I think I shall not have long 
to wait, as an uncle of Tilemann's and a Dr. Diiringe (a 
German), to whom I had letters from Darmstadt, have 
promised to introduce me to several families. Most of all 
Kalkbrenner could help me to get known. Supposing I 
should succeed, in a month or two. to give one lesson a day 
even at 6 frs., it would make 150 frs. a month; that would 
already be a great help. We may draw the following con- 
clusions from these calculations : if, with the help of God and 
Kalkbrenner's aid, I should succeed in becoming a good 
pianist, I cannot fail, in this huge and wealthy Paris, to get 
more pupils and at a higher price. If, later on, I should get 
four pupils a day at 10 frs. each (which is very little in com- 
parison with the first-rate pianists, and even with Mainzer, 
who can be nothing very extraordinary, as he has no name 
whatever in other countries, and who all charge 20 frs.), we 
get a monthly income of 1,040 frs. ; if I spend 250 frs. there 
remains a clear balance of nearly 800 frs., or about 9,600 a 
year. This result is grand, but not at all impossible. You can 
calculate what a man like Chopin must earn who gives eight 
or nine lessons a day at 20 frs. In three months' time I 
shall surely find out if my calculations are correct or not. 
Should they be so, then, dear father, I have the project, which 
you will certainly approve, of making Paris my headquarters 
for a length of time ; for tell me any town in Germany, or 
anywhere else, where it would be possible to earn so much, 
and at the same time have such opportunities of perfecting 
oneself in musical, and almost all other respects, as in Paris. 
Of course, let us not forget that all this depends upon an if, 
but an i/ that may very easily come true. Now I shall leave 
this chapter, only begging you very earnestly to write to me 
fully on the subject. 

As I have still room, I will chat a little with you, 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 211 

my unspeakably beloved ones, but of what ? If I speak 
of myself, I can only tell }~ou that I have the intensest 
longing for you and for my own country. Oh, how beau- 
tiful, how celestially beautiful, to be at home and in the midst 
of one's loved ones ! What is Paris, with all its luxury and 
brilliancy, with its crowds of people in the dark and narrow 
streets where sun and fresh air hardly ever penetrate, with 
its slow-flowing, turbid Seine, compared with our lovely little 
valley with its pleasant little town, its clear and merrily- 
flowing river, its fresh air and brilliant sunshine, with its 
flowering meadows and green hedges and bushes, where 
nightingales and finches still sing their joyous song, long 
since driven away from here by the bustling multitudes 
whose only thought is gain ! Each time I recall all this to 
mind I cannot keep back the tears. Could I but once walk 
hand-in-hand with you, the little ones and the dogs playing 
before us; through the garden, then by the fields to Alton 
Hagen ; then back by the way of lovely TViedey only 



once 



I fear, I fear that I shall get home-sick ; but I shall 
struggle against it with all my might, and should it over- 
come me, I shall turn my thoughts to the swift passing away 
of time ; four months already have I spent away from you, 
and the rest will go by also. 

I have worked myself into too soft a mood to go on 
writing. Answer me within tJie next few dai/s. You cannot 
guess the longing with which I am expecting your next 
letter ; and write much, describe all your doings, your daily 
life, how the uncle and aunts are getting on, and, mind, you 
must not forget what Bernard and Anna are doing, if he goes 
regularly to school, and how she passes her time ; in short, 
everything ; the merest trifles interest me now. 

Farewell ; write soon and at great length. Greet all 
relations and friends, embrace the two children, think very 
often of your loving CARL. 



p 2 



>12 LETTERS 



TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German] 

Paris : October 13, 183G. 

Dearest Parents, I did not expect a letter from you so 
soon, and my delight is therefore so much the greater; 
although Uncle Koch gave me a terrible fright by writing on 
the outside, 'This letter to be sent forward with the utmost 
despatch/ When I read this, I could not bat think that it 
contained the news of some misfortune, but happily it was 
not so, and, on the contrary, I found that you were, God be 
thanked and praised, all in good health (only you told me 
nothing of Mino's doings ; please do not forget in your next 
letter to speak of him). 

First I must tell you of my own doings ; that is easily 
done. I practise nearly the whole day long, and hardly 
anything but exercises, shakes, scales, and so on, and the rest 
of the time, for it is impossible to play without ceasing, I go 
over, and put into order, the work I did with llinck, or, if 
ever it stops raining for a moment, I take a run through 
Paris and visit its sights. So far I have taken no lessons, 
but hope to do so in a few days, but not from Kalkbrenner. 
I shall tell you the whole story. The day after Kalkbrenner's 
return I went to see him at eleven o'clock ; he happened to 
be at home, and I was shown into an ante-room, where there 
were several people already assembled ; when he had kept us 
waiting a considerable time, he appeared, wrapped in an 
ample dressing-gown. After he had spoken for a short time 
to the persons standing nearest to him. he came towards 
me ; I stepped forward and was beginning to explain my 
business, but as soon as he heard I intended to become a 
musician, and had studied composition with Rinck, he asked 
me to wait until he had dismissed the rest of the company. 
I was pleased at this, as it would enable me to speak to him 
undisturbed. It lasted a good long time, but finally he had 
despatched them all, and I was able to make my request. When 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 213 

I had done speaking, he said he regretted very much that it 
was at present impossible for him to comply with my wish ; 
he had been seriously ill, had only just returned from the 
Baths, and was still so weak that his doctor had strictly 
forbidden him to talk much, a thing quite unavoidable in 
giving lessons in fact, he did look very ill. He had his 
class at the Conservatoire, which he could not give up, and 
that tired him so, that he had been obliged to give up all 
other lessons. It was now my turn to express regret. Then 
he said he would like to hear me play, to see how far I had 
got on, and that he could perhaps recommend a teacher to 
me. lie took me into his sitting-room, where there was a 
most beautiful grand piano, and I played him his own 
Bffusio M'tisica. He made several remarks about the tempo, 
and said several times, ' very good/ ' first rate,' until I got 
to a part where both hands had scales in octaves during 
several pages ; when I had finished them he stopped me, 
and asked why I played the octaves with my arms and not 
from my wrists? 'You are quite out of breath,' he said 
(which was the case) ; lie could play scales in octaves for an 
hour without the least fatigue ; and why had God given us 
wrists? He was sure, if the Almighty had ever played the 
piano, He would play from the wrist ! He made several 
other remarks ; he said I held my fingers rather too high, 
I must hold them closer to the keys, especially in legato 
passages, to make them more finished, and obtain altogether 
a rounder and more ringing tone ; arid as to the expression, 
he gave me a good deal of advice, all very good, and worthy 
to be followed. He then played part of the piece I had 
played, to make it clear to me ; after this, he began another, 
and altogether played for me more than lialf-an-hour. You 
can imagine my delight ; it was the first time I had ever 
heard a celebrated musician, and this half-hour has been of 
the greatest use to me. In Kalkbrermer's playing there 
reigns a clearness, a distinctness, and neatness that are 
astonishing ; in octave scales he has an immense facility and 
precision, especially in the left hand ; then he has a special 



214 LETTEIIS 

mode of handling the piano, particularly in melodious pas- 
sai'es, which makes a great impression, but which. I cannot 
describe to yon ; the reason of it lies merely in that he keeps 
his finders so closelv over the keys. When he had finished, 

o *- * 

he told me to be very industrious, to avoid the mistakes he 
had pointed out, and that I would become a first-rate pianist; 
at present I should go to Osborne, 1 his best pupil, and who 
had quite his method of teaching (Mr. Elbers and I have 
played something of Osborne's, and, as far as I recollect, we 
liked it very much) ; I should tell him that Kalkbrenner had 
sent me to him and begged him, to give me lessons ; when I 
had worked with him for some time then he, Kalklsr&nner, 
ii'ould (jife me some lessor n'ifJi. the greatest pleasure. As 
often as I had studied a piece with Osborne 1 should come 
and play it to him, and if there was still anything wanting, 
he would point it out to me. I must also come and see him 
from time to time. That was kind, was it not ? and I shall 
certainly not fail to take him at his word. 

Next day I went to Osborne (Tuesday, this clay week) ; 
he also was out of town, and only returned on Saturday. 
On Sundays in Paris no one is ever to be found at home, 
so I went on Monday, yesterday, and luckily found him 
at home. He received me very amiably, an'd when I 
had told him my tale, he said I put him in a great 
perplexity ; that he gave lessons from early morning till 
night, and still he was most unwilling to refuse me. 
After a little more conversation he asked me to play 
something; I did so, and he praised and blamed exactly 
in the same way as Kalkbrenner had done ; then he asked 
my address, and said he would write to me in a few days to 
say whether he had found it possible to arrange to give me 
lessons, and in this letter he would give me all particulars ; 
should there be any evening parties with music, he would 
introduce me with pleasure. I am therefore awaiting this 
letter ; should he delay too long, which I do not expect, I 

1 George Alexander Osborne (1808-1893), the well-known Irish pianist, 
teacher, and composer. 



TO HIS PARESIS. PARIS, 1836 215 

shall go to some one else. I have been here more than a 
fortnight, and have only been able to study by myself; but 
soon after my arrival, Mr. Probst of Leipzig, who lives here, 
and whose acquaintance I made through Mr. Tilemann's 
uncle, told me that if 1 had not learnt patience before, I 
should learn it here, and, in truth, it seems so. Neither 
Meyerbeer nor Hiller are in Paris, so I cannot deliver my 
letters to them. As to hearing many good works, it is not 
as we expected ; at all the theatres there are only small 
operettas and ballets, even at the Grand Opera, where all the 
best and newest operas are generally given. A new ballet, La 
Fille du Danube, will probably have a hundred successive 
performances, so much does it please the Parisians ; so there 
is but a poor prospect of hearing good music. All these things 
are not calculated to banish my bad humour ; on the contrary, 
my longing for you and for my beautiful, peaceful birthplace 
grows ever stronger. Christmas and New Year ! Gott ! 

The only thing I am looking forward to is that Mainzer 
has promised to procure me the opportunity of often hearing 
Chopin and Liszt. I hope he will keep his word, for it would 
be of the greatest use to me. CARL. 

X 

TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German) 

Paris : November, 1836. 

Dearest Parents, Your dear letters of October 23 only 
reached me, through Mr. Rumpe, on November 2. They 
have, therefore, been pretty long on the way, so I shall make 
no delay in answering them for fear you should get anxious 
again about me, your over-great love for your long-legged 
rascal making you so quick to take alarm. In this letter I 
have made up my mind not to write exclusively, as in the 
last two, about my studies, which would end by boring you, 
but of everything that comes across my mind, in a medley of 
wheat and tares, and you can disentangle it for yourselves 



216 LETTERS 

(N.B. If you think it worth the trouble). I have just 
noticed that I have started with the master stroke of beginning 
to write on the wrong side of the page, but it does not matter. 
I shall hope to be able to close my letter all the same, and so 
go on in confidence. All the same, I must tell you that, God 
be praised and thanked, I have begun with Osborne, and 
have already had three lessons one per week, which is amply 
sufficient (ten francs each). But I shall give you no further 
account of this, for where is the use of serving you with the 
sauce when you cannot judge of the meat ? I know you trust 
me, and that I need not tell you continually that I am working 
hard. One thing, however, I must report. My manner of 
playing has to be entirely altered not so much the expres- 
sion, as my right reverend Aunt Christina, with an air of 
wisdom, opined ; on the contrary, he paid me great compli- 
ments on this point. But it seems I had an abominable tone. 
You will, perhaps, not quite understand this, but as soon as I 
get back to Hagen I shall make it clear to you. I arn making 
great progress already on this point, and during my last 
lesson he said several times : ' Je suis fort content de vous, 
vous etes tres-bon musicien.' (I have this moment received 
an invitation from Kalle to dinner at six this evening.) 

I doubt whether, London excepted, there is another town 
in the world that can compare with Paris in any respect. 
Louis Flashoff would say it is a ' Gegenstand ' his favourite 
expression for anything grand. It gives me a curious sensation 
as often as I look from any height upon this immense agglo- 
meration of stone. As far as the eye can reach, nothing but 
the sky and houses. One can never see the whole of Paris 
some part is always lost in the distance. Everything in 
Paris is on a grand scale manners and customs as well as 
the town itself; N.B., the prices too. Such a quantity of 
palaces, monuments, arches of triumph, one finds nowhere 
else. To describe it all is impossible ; I should require much 
more time and much more paper. The finest building in 
Paris, and perhaps in all Europe, is the new church of the 
Madeleine. Only it hardly does for a church, nor was it 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 217 

originally meant for one. Napoleon, who began it, intended 
it for a Temple of Fame. It is built in the same Greek style 
(I believe after a temple of Minerva or Apollo at Athens), and 
so makes a curious impression in the midst of the modern 
houses and palaces that surround it. In Paris one has the 
best opportunities of studying the differences between the 
old Gothic and the Grecian styles, the first represented by the 
venerable cathedral of Notre Dame, and the second by this 
Temple of the Madeleine. Both are sublime masterworks, 
but what an endless difference ! The thrill one feels 011 
entering a Gothic church like Cologne Cathedral is not 
experienced at the sight of this great temple, but a feeling of 
admiration for the grand old Greeks and for the days of 
antiquity passes through one. Under the high arches and 
vaulted roof of a Gothic cathedral one feels a certain sense (I 
at least do) of oppression, and breathes more freely when one 
returns to the open air. In this Greek temple everything 
is calculated to produce an agreeable and cheerful sensation ; 
the whole building seems so light, even smart, if that 
expression is not too trivial. In short, it represents the ideal 
of spirited beauty. So one could never picture a Gothic 
cathedral in a fine open landscape, but one can think of such 
a temple in the midst of the old Grecian land, with laurel 
groves and myrtle woods. Then it makes an unpleasant 
sensation to see the modish young bucks in their frock coats, 
white cuffs, kid gloves and walking sticks, wandering among 
the Corinthian columns and up the grand flight of steps. At 
every moment one expects to see a tall, stately Grecian figure 
step out and drive away these dandies, as Christ drove the 
money-lenders out of the temple. 

I have already seen a most remarkable spectacle here, 
the like of which I shall never see again, viz. the erec- 
tion of an Egyptian obelisk in the finest Place of all 
Paris and on the very spot sufficiently remarkable on 
that account where Louis XVI. and Marie Antoinette 
were executed. The obelisk was a present from the 
Pasha of Egypt to the present king, Louis Philippe, and 



218 LETTERS 

was brought with immense trouble by ship to Paris. They 
had to raise the level of the Seine (how they did it I do not 
know, and cannot imagine) in order to bring it to the town. 
It is 72 feet high, consists of a single block of granite, and 
weighs over 500,000 pounds. Now, you can imagine the 
difficulty of placing such a mass on a pedestal twenty-four feet 
high. By means of a steam-engine it was brought from the 
quay as far as a wall, built on purpose close to the pedestal ; 
then two hundred artillerymen, by means of ten windlasses 
and a great scaffolding which I cannot attempt to describe, 
raised it up. This raising lasted from ten o'clock in the 
morning to four in the afternoon, and all this time I stood, in 
company with three hundred thousand curious spectators, on 
the same spot, and certainly did not regret it. The obelisk is 
still veiled, so I do not know how it looks, but the top is 
somewhat damaged, as the old-curiosity mongers paid a ducat 
for each little particle they could get. 

I could tell you a great deal more, but as the paper will 
soon come to an end, I shall say a little about myself; first 
I must tell you that I go to the theatre very ofteia, as I have 
free entrance three times a week to the Grand Opera, by a 
curious combination of circumstances which I must recount. 
If an Austrian had not broken his leg at Chalons I should 
not have a free admission to the Grand Opera to-day ; the 
poor devil lay at Chalons the day I stayed there, and as I 
knew of no hotel in Paris, I asked him if he could recom- 
mend one, and he told me of this one where I now am. At 
the table d'hote here I made the acquaintance of a very nice 
man, called Ellisen, a painter, to whom I already owe much, 
and he introduced me to a family of the name of Kaselack, 
who are well acquainted with all the most famous artists, 
and have several tickets for every performance and always 
give one to me. Through these Kaselacks I have made the 
acquaintance of several other artists, for instance with the 
Opera composer Adam, and the first flutist in all Paris, 
Coninx; in short it was a lucky thing for me that that 
Austrian broke his leg at Chalons. 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 219 

XI 

TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German') 

Paris : November 28, 183R. 

Dearest Parents, You must be really angry with me, 
now that I know I need pay no postage fee for my letters, 
for not having answered your last letter sooner, and I acknow- 
ledge that you have certainly some cause for it ; but on my 
side I have some excuse for my delay ; I would not write 
before I could tell you how I had been received by Meyer- 
beer, a thing you were very eager to know ; it is true I 
cannot tell you yet (I will give you the reason directly), but 
most probably before this letter is finished, which will be to- 
morrow, I shall have seen him (with Parisians one can never 
feel sure) and be able to tell positively if the famous com- 
poser of the ' Huguenots ' has received me amiably or rudely. 
Why I had not seen him sooner, as I think I have told you, 
was because of his long absence from town ; he has been 
back about a fortnight ; since then I have been three times 
to his house, twice he was not at home, and the third time 
there were so many people, to whom he was giving audience, 
that I should have had to wait for more than half-an-hour, 
and I had not the time to spare ; now I have been informed 
that he will receive me to-morrow at nine o'clock in the 
morning, and I hope then to make the acquaintance of this 
famous and remarkable man ; I have seen him several times ; 
he is of middle height, rather lean, and stoops slightly, he 
need not wear a label to proclaim that he is a Jew ; that 
any man can see, but also that behind his high and noble 
brow many fine and glorious thoughts must dwell. Hiller, 
for whom I also had a letter, is not in Paris ; he has been at 
Frankfort since the end of September, and, as I hear, will 
hardly be back before the summer. 

Now I shall tell you how it befel with the Leipzig letters, 
and, thank God, have only good tidings to give. Ail those to 
whom I was recommended, received me with so much hearti- 



220 LETTERS 

ness, not. as so often happens, with mere empty politeness, that 
I soon saw the great value of an introduction from Uncle 
Harkort. Especially Mr. Kalle and Mr. Thurneyssen were extra- 
ordinarily amiable ; the first has invited me at least five or six 
times to dinner, and every Sunday evening to tea, and both he 
and his charming and beautiful young wife are always so kind 
and friendly, that I am in high spirits the whole day previous 
to going there. I always meet a large company there, consist- 
ing of French, Germans, English and Americans, and spend 
many a pleasant hour. Kalle has also told me. if ever I am 
in any difficulty, to apply to him at once and he would advise 
and help efficaciously. I have dined twice at the Thurneys- 
sen's and am invited to a soiree for every Friday evening. I 
enjoy myself very much at their house also, and have made 
several pleasant acquaintances there, amongst them that of 
M. Scherbius, who is going to introduce me the day after 
to-morrow to Ferdinand Paes, who happens to be in Paris, at 
which I am immensely delighted ; should he ask me to play 
I shall choose his own dear ' Am Khein, Am Rhein.' The 
Thurneyssens must be very rich people ; although the Kalles 
display great elegance, it is nothing to be compared to the 
luxury of the others ; it is quite indescribable, but when I 
come home I shall have wonderful things to tell you of it. as 
well as of the tone and mode of Paris, that one has always 
read so much about. 

Baron Eichthal also received me very well, and of him I 
have the greatest hopes from a musical point of \iew; he 
invited me a week ago, in a very amiable note, to dine with 
him on Wednesday (the day after to-morrow) and said he hoped 
to introduce me then to his frieud Chopin ! So far I have 
neither seen nor heard Chopin, as all the soirees and con- 
certs at which such artists play are only beginning now or a 
little later on. I have little fear but that once presented to 
Chopin by Eichthal he will invite me to his own house, and 
then I shall hear him not only once but several times. 
I also hope to be introduced to Liszt shortly, and Mr. Tile- 
mann's uncle is going to make me known to Herz. So, by 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 221 

degrees, I shall get to know these people ; things do not go 
quickly in Paris ; one requires a boundless patience ; so too 
with regard to the giving of lessons, which I thought would 
be so easy before I came. Up to the present there seems no 
prospect ; principally as I do not know enough French to be 
able to teach. I hear from all sides that it is very easy to 
make a larg^e fortune in Paris, when one has bitten one's 

O 3 

way through, has made oneself known, and acquired a certain 
fame in the town ; then every one rushes to you, and your 
hours are measured in gold ; but it takes a pretty long time 
before one gets so far. 

All the same, I still think it would be best, after I have 
quite completed my education, to return here for a consider- 
able length of time ; where so many others have been so 
fortunate. I, too, may perhaps succeed. I have now heard 
Kalkbrenner several times, and have paid him another visit, 
and shall go again one of these days, as I have studied twelve 
grand Etudes of his with Osborne, which I want to play to 
him. Last Sunday I heard him at a concert at the Hotel de 
Yille ; he played twice, first the Rondo, ' Gage d'Amitie ' 
(which Mrs. Hennecke made me a present of), and then 
variations on a theme of Bellini's. I was very glad to hear 
him play a piece I knew, and to be able to discover in how 
much I am still wanting. He began the allegro of the 
Hondo at a speed that made my hair stand on end ; he 
carried it on at the same pace, which he even increased 
towards the close, with such a bell-like clearness, and such 
great expression, that I cannot understand how any one 
could do it better; and still, Chopin and Liszt stand higher 
than Kalkbrenner. When next I see him I shall remind 
him of his promise to give me lessons, but should he not be 
willing to do so yet, I shall not insist, as Osborne's . teaching 
pleases me very much, and Kalkbrenner's lessons will be 
more useful to me later on, when I have studied more ; 011 
no account shall I leave Paris without taking a few lessons 
from him, so as to be able to call myself his pupil. 

You write to me, dear father, that by the end of January 



222 LETTERS 

I shall most likely, or certainly, have to return home; I 
know that my stay here costs a terrible amount of money, 
and that it cannot go on long, so I shall say no word against 
it, and shall rejoice to be with you again ; but at the same 
time I am convinced that the object of my coming here will 
only have been half accomplished if I go away so soon ; 
I should only have had altogether thirteen or fourteen 
lessons, and have arrived at the point where lessons from 
Kalkbrenner would be of the greatest use. I am making 
great progress, and Osborne praises me very much ; he told 
me that during the winter I should study a concerto with 
him, and I believe that if I could thoroughly and perfectly 
study a concerto with such a master, so as to be able to play 
it anywhere, I should hardly need further lessons, but could 
perfect myself on the model of the great artists whom I have 
the opportunity of hearing; but, I believe, only then. 
However, if I must return home so soon I shall say no word 
against it, but shall even rejoice. 

November 29. 

I had got so far yesterday when the dinner-bell called 
me (at half past five). This morning at nine o'clock, 
dressed in my best, I went to Meyerbeer ; at the door I met 
a Berliner, Rudolfi (whom I only know by name), who had 
also come to pay his respects. In the anteroom the servant 
received us with a shrug of his shoulders, and said he did 
not think we could be admitted, as Meyerbeer was composing, 
and had sent away a lot of people already ; he went away 
and shortly came back with a very polite message that his 
master was so very busy that he could not possibly be 
disturbed, but begged us not to take it amiss, and to come 
without fail to-morrow morning at nine o'clock. This I shall 
certainly not fail to do, as I am convinced that I shall be 
well received, as was my friend Mangold, who also brought 
him a letter from Binck, and whose compositions he examined 
and corrected, and to whom he also often sends tickets for 
his operas. Most likely you do not know that Mangold is 
in Paris. I luckily persuaded him to come, but as he could 



TO HIS PARENTS. PARIS, 1836 223 

not leave Darmstadt with me, he followed a fortnight later ; 
we see each other very seldom, as he lives at half-an-hour's 
distance from me. This is one of the disadvantages of Paris, 
the difficulty of seeing even one's best friends on account of 
the great distances : it would have been impossible for us to 
live together, the one playing the piano and the other the 
violin ; we should have disturbed each other and made a 
veritable cat's concert of it. 

You, dear mother, wish to be assured that I am not 
freezing here ; I can do so. Firstly, in my room I have no 
open fire, but a stove, a remarkable one made of porcelaine, 
but which warms the room very well ; there is a fireplace, 
but as the landlord offered me a stove I accepted without 
hesitation ; an open fire looks very nice and cosy, but one 
gets roasted on one side and frozen on the other. Second, 
although the weather is very unpleasant, always raining and 
windy, it has been so warm that, although we are close upon 
December 1, I need no fire, but at the beginning of the 
month it was so cold that I could not do without one ; I 
only wish it would remain warm, for wood costs a terrible 
deal of money here, and coal is unknown ; two logs of wood 
cost almost a franc. 

So you have had a concert at Hagen ; as those concerts 
have given me so much pleasure from my earliest childhood, 
I take the greatest interest in them still, and you, dear 
mother, must positively give me all the details in your next 
letter ; tell me what was given, and who played, and who 
sang ; please do not forget. 

Also the theatrical news, for I know your weakness, and 
that you will seldom have missed a performance. Now, I 
shall look through your last letter to see if there is anything 
I have forgotten to answer, so just wait a little. I have 
found nothing, and as you will be content with the length of 
this epistle, I shall promptly bring it to a close, first asking 
you to thank Mr. Elbers, with my best greetings, for his 
letter. Mr. Selttinghaus of Altena is going back soon ; if 
not too soon I shall charge him with several letters, not 



224 LETTERS 

only for Mr. Elbers, but for other persons to whom I owe 
them. Now comes the accustomed usual ending. Dear 
parents, farewell, write soon, greetings to all friends and 
relations. I embrace you, the dear children, and the dogs a 
thousand times; love me still, and think right often of your 
loving CARL. 

XII 

TO HIS PARENTS 
{Translated from the German] 

Paris : December 2, 1836. 

Beloved Parents, Selttinghaus's departure has taken me 
so much by surprise that it is quite impossible for me to give 
him several letters to take with him to Hagen. I went to 
Rumpe's yesterday, the 1st of the month, to get some money, 
and then learnt that Selttinghaus was leaving to-day at mid- 
day. As I have a lesson this afternoon and must practise for 
it, I have barely time for a short supplement to my letter of 
two days ago. 

The morning after having written to you I went again 
to Meyerbeer, and was at once admitted. As I expected, 
Meyerbeer was extremely kind and amiable. He kept me 
more than half an hour, inquired after Rinck and as to all my 
studies, asked if I had yet composed anything, how I got on 
in Paris, if I had heard the most eminent pianists, of whom 
Liszt was the very first, and so on. When I told him that I 
had neither seen nor heard Liszt, he said I must call again in 
a few days, in the morning, and he would give me an intro- 
duction to him ; Liszt was a very nice young man, who would 
certainly receive me very kindly. How pleased I am that 
Meyerbeer should give me an introduction to that original 
fellow Liszt I cannot describe. This also is all very good 
and satisfactory. 

The same evening I went to dine with Baron Eichthal, 
where I was very cordially treated, and where I heard 
Chopin. That was beyond all words. The few senses I had 
have quite left me. I could have jumped into the Seine. 



TO HIS PARENTS, 1836 225 

Everything I hear now seems so insignificant, that I would 
rather not hear it at all. Chopin ! He is no man, he is an 
angel, a god (or what can I say more?). Chopin's composi- 
tions played by Chopin ! That is a joy never to be surpassed. 
I shall describe his plaving another time. Kalkbrenner 

JL / O 

compared to Chopin is a child. I say this with the com- 
pletest conviction. During Chopin's playing I could think 
of nothing but elves and fairy dances, such a wonderful 
impression do his compositions make. There is nothing to 
remind one that it is a human being who produces this 
music. It seems to descend from heaven so pure, and clear, 
and spiritual. I feel a thrill each time I think of it. If 
Liszt plays still better, then the devil take me if I don't 
shoot myself on the spot. Chopin is moreover a charming, 
delightful creature. He talked to me a long time, gave me 
his address and the permission to go and see him often, a 
permission he will not have given in vain. 

But now, best of parents, I must stop, or Mr. Seltting- 
haus will be running away without my letter. Farewell. 
Mr. Selttinghaus will tell you how I am and how I live here. 
Greet all my friends and relations, and be assured of the 
lasting love of your son, CAROLUS. 

XIII 

TO HIS PARENTS 
(Translated from the German') 

Paris : December 19, 183G. 

Dearest Parents, For the last time this year I sit down 
to write to you, but this time you must be content with 
little ; my letter to Uncle Harkort gives me some trouble, 
and I must also write to my old Rinck, to whom, of course, I 
wrote soon after my arrival here, but as yet have had no 
answer, so do not know if he is in good health, or dead, or if 
my letter never reached him, which I should greatly regret, 
for what would the good man have thought of me? With 
all this writing I must not neglect my studies, so you must 

Q 



226 LETTERS 

rest satisfied with a single sheet ; there is, in fact, no need 
for our writing much to each other, as I expect and hope to 
be with you in nine or ten weeks, and how soon they will 
pass ! But first let me thank you, dear father, for having 
granted me another month. I know that it will be difficult 
for you, and therefore my gratitude is all the greater. I 
shall do my utmost to make the month of great profit to me. 
Of what shall 1 write ? As I know that musical matters 
interest you most, I shall begin with them, and tell you that 
I have heard Liszt. 

Meyerbeer gave me a kind, two-pages-long letter of 
introduction to him, which did not fail in its effect. 
When I went for the first time I did not find Liszt at 
home, and was told he only received on Monday and Friday 
afternoons from 2 to 5 o'clock. As I have a lesson on 
Fridays, I had to wait till Monday a week to-day when 
I went towards 3 o'clock. How curious I was to see this 
man, who has so remarkable a fame, you can easily imagine, 
especially as he has the reputation, even in his outward 
appearance, of being a most original creature ; and so I found 
him. Liszt is the most original being in existence. When 
I entered I found an assembly of thirty or forty persons, 
among them many of the first artists of Paris, and even 
several ladies, who had come to pay him homage (I had 
noticed a great number of carriages at the door). He, the 
feted Liszt, came to me at once, and I gave him my letter. 
When he opened it he glanced at once at the signature, and 
seeing the name of Meyerbeer he shook me again by the 
hand and kindly bade me sit down. I did not accept the 
invitation, as there were forty persons in the room and only 
ten chairs, all of which were occupied. He did not notice it, 
spoke to me a little while, and then sprang off to some one 
else. I then had time to look at him carefully, and saw that 
I had not been told too much about the originality of his 
outward appearance. His aspect is truly remarkable. He 
is tall and very thin, his face very small and pale, his fore- 
head remarkably high and beautiful ; he wears his perfectly 



TO HIS PARENTS, 1836 227 

lank hair so long that it spreads over his shoulders, which 
looks very odd, for when he gets a bit excited and gesticu- 
lates, it falls right over his face and one sees nothing but his 
nose. He is very negligent in his attire, his coat looks as if 
it had just been thrown on, he wears no cravat, only a narrow 
white collar. This curious figure is in perpetual motion : 
now he stamps with his feet, now waves his arms in the air, 
now he does this, now that. My hope of hearing him play 
in his own house was deceived. He has no instrument ! 
I remained a few hours with him, until one after another the 
guests had left, then (I) miner wetter ! here is a terrible blot ! 
How it came ] know not, but to copy the letter would be 
too tedious, so take blot and all !) I took my leave also. 
He accompanied me to the ante-room, and said that on 
Sunday (yesterday) he was giving a concert at the Con- 
servatoire : that he would have given me a ticket with 
the greatest pleasure had he a single one left to dispose of, 
but he had given all his free tickets away, but if I cared 
to go to the rehearsal I must be there on Saturday morning 
at 9 o'clock, and that I must also come and see him very 
often. 

I have now heard him twice : at the rehearsal, where he 
only played once, and at the concert three times, for I 
invested five francs in a ticket. When I heard him first I 
sat speechless for a quarter of an hour afterwards, in such a 
stupor of amazement had the man put me. Such execution, 
such limitless truly limitless execution no one else can 
possess. He plays sometimes so as to make your hair stand 
on end ! He who has not heard Liszt can have no concep- 
tion literally no conception of what his playing is. After 
having heard him my resolution was taken. ' Now you go 
straight home,' I said to myself, ' and grind frightfully for a 
couple of years, and if at the end of the time you have accom- 
plished anything fit, you may come back here.' And so it 
shall be. 

When I have worked very hard at home I shall certainly 
then return to Paris, I like it so well ; so well, that already I 

Q2 



228 LETTERS 

could wisli to stay here for ever ; and Paris is also the place 
where one can earn money. 

But now I must make a speedy end ; time presses. 
Lebt reclit wold ! Keep well ; I am so. and hope to remain 
so. Spend a merry and happy Christmas, and think of me 
(poor wretch !). Quickly and joyfully as those days flew 
by formerly, so slowly and sadly will they crawl for me 
now ! 

Adieu ! Lelt void ! Greet my relations and friends for 
your true 

C AEOLUS, 

Has Selttinghaus been to see you and delivered my 
letters ? I had forgotten to tell you that my lessons with 
Osborne are going on satisfactorily. We are both well 
pleased with each other. If possible, write to me again 
before the end of the year. Lelt volil ! On New Year's 
Eve drink a glass of punch for me ! Here, dear mother, will 
I answer your questions. 1. My clothes are still quite 
good ; I can appear before any man in them. 2. I have had 
my hair cut twice. 3. Of course I always wear woollen 
socks now ; d propos, how cold is it now with you ? 
Write and tell me. 4. I have had to buy a tall hat ; here it 
is not proper to be without one ; indeed matters are carried so 
far that one is not allowed to enter the Tuileries Gardens 
unless one wears a tall hat ; the sentries send you back with 
' On ne passe pas.' Now farewell, dear, good mother ! 

XIV 

TO HIS PARENTS 

(Translated from tJie German) 

London : April 27, 1848. 

My dear Parents, Forgive me for not having written for 
so long ; courage failed me to do so ; I could not make up my 
mind to give only bad news, and of good news, alas ! I had 
none to give. The Kevolution has dealt me an incalculable 



TO HIS PARENTS, 1848 229 

blow, from the effects of which I shall have to suffer for a 
long time. Paris is in a sad and pitiable state, and God 
knows if it will ever recover itself; that my position there, 
at least for the present, is quite lost, you will already have 
guessed. All my colleagues are in the same case. I have 
been here in London three weeks, striving hard to make a 
new position, and I hope I shall succeed ; pupils I already 
have, although as yet they are not many. The competition 
is very keen, for, besides the native musicians, there are 
at present here Thalberg, Chopin, Kalkbrenner, Pixis, 
Osborne, Prudent, Pillet, and a lot of other pianists besides 
myself who have all, through necessity, been driven to Eng- 
land, and we shall probably end by devouring one another. 
During the last few days I have begun to hope, as I have 
several times played in public with great success, and trust 
soon to have got my footing. Until now, sadness has been 
the order of the day, but, I assure you, my courage does not 
fail me. My family has, of course, remained in Paris, and 
you can easily fancy that, all alone, I do not feel very 
happy. 

damnable Revolution ! 

Should things mend in Paris, I shall return there after 
the London season ; but should they remain in the same 
condition I must of necessity establish myself here and bring 
my family over, for in Paris one might starve there will be 
no thought of music there. In Germany, also, everything 
seems in hateful disorder madness is at home everywhere. 
But do not grieve too much for me, my dear parents; sad as 
things appear at the present moment, I am assuredly con- 
fident that I shall worry through, only it will cost some 
trouble. Write to me soon, it will give me comfort. My 
address is 28 Maddox Street, Regent Street, London. 

What I wrote to you, dear mother, in my last letter, con- 
cerning the little drafts in case of need, remains unaltered, 
only you must send them to my wife in Paris, as till now 
I have but little money here, and left all I could in Paris. 
I call courage and hope to your aid, as I do to rny own. 



230 LETTERS 

Write to me, my dear, dear parents ; as soon as things 
take a better turn I shall let you know; you may rely 
upon it. 

Good-bye, father, mother, Anna; again good-bye, lebt 
wold ; keep in your loving thoughts your ever-loving and sad 
son and brother, 

CARL HALL. 



XV 

FROM MR. H. LEO 

Manchester: August 4, 1848. 

My dear Mr. Halle, According to your wish, I hasten 
to inform you of the state of things here, so that you may 
come to a decision on your return. . . . My opinion has not 
changed in the very least, and should you resolve upon 
coming to Manchester, it is my innermost conviction that 
your success will be complete 

You will feel the delicacy of my position with respect to 
you. I should so heartily rejoice to have you here, and yet, 
believe me, I would not let myself be so swayed by selfish- 
ness as to give you advice against my own convictions. 
Were you my brother, I should say : Come to Manchester. All 
the same I cannot, and must not, accept the responsibility of 
the step. If you feel the courage and strength to trust Man- 
chester with your fate, I believe you would do right, and 
would not regret it, but if you will not take the risk we must 
submit, and only beg you to give us credit for our good 
intentions. The post is closing ; perhaps I shall write a few 
lines to-morrow if anything occurs to rue. Ever yours, 

H. LEO.' 



1 My father had no access to the foregoing letters when writing his 
Memoirs, which he did entirely from memory. 



FROM HIS WIFE, 1848 231 



XVI 

[The following lines are taken from a letter from my 
mother to her sister at New Orleans.] 

3 Addison Terrace, Victoria Park, 

Manchester : 19 septembre 1848. 

.... En attendant laisse-moi te dire que nous sommes 
a Manchester depuis le 6 de ce mois ; la derniere lettre 
de Mathilde t'a appris que Charles, ayant recu de cette ville 
des propositions plus avantageuses encore que celle de Bath, 
s'etait decide a s'y fixer ; surtout en y trouvant des ressources 
musicales immenses il ne pouvait pas balancer entre ces 
deux villes. Voil;\ u peine un mois qu'il y est, et deja nous 
pouvons espurer lui voir occuper bientot une magnifique 
position (la moitie de son temps est pris par des lecons) ; on 
lui demande de toute part une serie de Matinees Musicales 
dans le genre de celles qu'il donnait a Paris ; Mr. Leo, qui 
1'a decide a se fixer ici, et qui est notre bon ange, me disait 
hier soir qu'elles lui rapporteraient au rnoins huit mille 
francs chaque annee ; Mercredi dernier il a joue un concerto 
de Beethoven a la Societe des Amateurs. II a obtenu un 
magnifique succes ; jamais je n'ai vu un enthousiasme si grand 
et si general ; il a ete engage au concert meme de jouer au 
prochain Festival de Liverpool ; son nom est tellement connu 
par toute 1'Angleterre qu'un editeur de Londres est venu 
hier a Manchester lui offrir de prendre toutes ses composi- 
tions a raison de 10 frs. la page gravee 

Si tu pouvais voir toutes les bontes de Charles pour nous ; 
son coeur lui inspire des snpercheries charmantes, ainsi il 
m'avait ecrit a Londres que Manchester n'etant pas line 
ville de plaisance, il ne pouvait trouver de maison meublee, 
et qu'il se voyait oblige de prendre la seule qui lui etait 
offerte ; qu'elle etait fort laide, ce qui le contrariait beaucoup. 
Notre vie devant etre toute d'interieur il aurait desire nous 
donner au moins Pagrement d'etre bien loge ; juge de notre 



232 LETTERS 

joie, le soir de notre arrivee, cle tronver une charmante petite 
maison, entouree cle delicieux jardins, placee au milieu d'un 
pare, et ayant tout le confort des habitations anglaises, tapis 
partout, etc. etc. Ses eleves et cette bonne Mrs. Leo avaient, 
pour nous feter, eclaire toutes les pieces, dans lesquelles se 
trouvaient de grandes corbeilles de fleurs naturelles ; il 
fallait voir la joie de ce pauvre Carl, combien il jouissait en 

enfant de notre bonne surprise II m'est impossible, 

chere sccur, de te dire ce que j'ai eprouve d'immense 
bonheur en ce moment, qui seul aurait suffi pour me faire 

oublier ces derniers six mois 

Les habitants de cette ville sont tres bons ; ils sonfc si 
fiers de posseder un artiste comme Charles qu'ils cherchent a 
deviner tout ce qui peut nous etre agreable ; toute la pre- 
miere societe s'est empressee de venir nous voir, nous 
sommes accables d'invitations et de visites. Nous avons 
trouve en Mr. Leo un veritable pere, il n'est pas possible 
d'etre plus devoues que lui et sa femme ; ils ont su m'eviter 
tous les ennuis d'une installation en persuadant a un de 
leurs amis, qui partait pour I'Allemagne, de nous louer, pour 
l'2l. par mois, la charmante petite maison que nous occu- 
pons. La vie est beaucoup moins chere qu'a Paris. 1 

1 [Translation] 

3 Addison Terrace, Victoria Park, 

Manchester : September 19, 1848. 

.... Meanwhile let me tell you that we have been at Manchester 
since the 6th of this month ; Mathilde's last letter informed you that 
Charles, having received proposals from this town more advantageous than 
those from Bath, had decided to establish himself here, where, more- 
over, he finds such immense musical resources that he could not hesitate 
between the two towns. He has hardly been here a month, and we may 
already hope to see him occupy a magnificent position ; half his time is 
taken up with lessons, and on all sides he is being asked to give a series of 
musical matinees like those he gave in Paris ; Mr. Leo, who induced him 
to establish himself here, and who is our good angel, told me last night 
that they would bring him in at least eight thousand francs a year ; last 
Wednesday he played a Concerto of Beethoven's for the Amateur Society ; 
he obtained a magnificent success ; I never saw such great and general 
enthusiasm ; during the concert he was offered an engagement to play at 



TO II. F. CIIOELEY, 1850 233 

XVII 

TO H. F. CHORLEY 

Manchester : 23 aout 1850, 
Greenheys. 

Moil cher Chorley, Vous savez, j'espere, qu'avant inon 
depart de Londres j'ai fait plusieurs tentatives pour vous 
trouver chez vous, mais elles ont toutes echoue et a mon bien 
grand regret; car j'avais bieu besoin de causer longuement 
avec vous et de vous demander, une fois de plus, votre avis et 
vos bons conseils sur le changement de residence que je pro- 
jette depuis si longternps, sans avoir jusqu'ici pu parvenir a 
1'executer. 

Une bonne causerie vaut mieux qu'une longue correspon- 
dance, mais malgre cela, si vous voulez bien me repondre 

the forthcoming Liverpool Festival ; his name is so well known throughout 
England that a London publisher came to Manchester yesterday to offer 
to take all his compositions, at the rate of ten francs the printed 
page 

If you could only see all Charles's goodness to us ; his heart inspires 
him with charming deceits ; thus he had written to me to London that 
Manchester, not being a city of pleasure, he had not been able to find a 
furnished house, and had been obliged to take the only house that had 
been offered to him, and that it was a very ugly one, which annoyed him 
greatly, for our life here having to be entirely a home- life, he would have 
wished at least to give us the pleasure of being well-lodged. Judge of our 
delight, the evening of our arrival, to find a charming little house sur- 
rounded by delicious gardens, situated in the middle of a park, and with 
all the comforts of an English habitation, carpets everywhere, &c., &c. 
His pupils and good Mrs. Leo, in order to welcome us, had lighted up 
all the rooms, in which were placed large baskets of flowers ; you should 
have seen poor Charles's joy, how he rejoiced like a child at our glad sur- 
prise It would be impossible, dear sister, to tell you the immense 

happiness that filled me at that moment, which would alone have sufficed 
to make me forget the past six months 

The inhabitants of this town are very kind ; they seem so proud of 
possessing an artist like Charles, that they try to guess what would give 
us pleasure ; all the best society hastened to call upon us ; we are over- 
whelmed with invitations and visits. We have found a real father in Mr. 
Leo, it would be impossible to be more devoted than he and his wife are to us ; 
they managed to spare me all the annoyance of furnishing by persuading 
one of their friends, who was going to Germany, to let us, for 121. a 
month, the delightful little house we occupy. Life is much cheaper than 
in Paris. 



234 LETTERS 

quelques mots aux questions que je compte vous adresser, 
j'eii tirerai tonjours grand profit, et vous en serai bieu recon- 
naissant, croyez-le-moi. 

L'idee de me fixer a Londres a tellement tnuri dans ma 
tote, que je commence enfin a croire que je le mettrai en exe- 
cution cet hiver ; il me semble du moins que je ne pourrai 
jamais trouver un moment plus favorable ; la mort de ma- 
dame Duleken et le depart de Benedict doivent laisser, 
momentanement, un vide qui rendra peut-etre une prompte 
reussite plus facile. 

Si j'hesite encore un peu, c'est uniquement parce que ma 
position ici est reellement tres belle, et 1'idee de la perdre, sans 
retrouver bientot une au moins equivalente, me tourmente a 
cause de ma famille qui est nombreuse, comme vous savez. 
Vous comprendrez done, mon cher Cliorlev, pourqiioi je 
demande a mes vrais amis, et je vous compte parmi eux, de 
m'aider de leurs conseils et de m'indiquer, autant que cela se 
peut, les moyens qui pourraient rendre ma reussite plus 
prompte et plus facile. Je connais trop peu le terrain de 
Londres pour pouvoir vous faire des questions precises, 
excepte pourtant celle-ci : a quelle epoque me conseillez-vous 
de venir ? Serait-il necessaire pour moi d'arriver avant le 
mois de Janvier ou fevrier ? Pour tout le reste je rn'en remets 
a votre obligeance ; je suis persuade que tous les conseils que 
vous pourrez me donner, vous me les donnerez, et je vous 
promets de les suivre avec reconnaissance. Si vous pouvez 
entrer dans des details, meme sur le quartier que vous me 
conseilleriez d'habiter, faites-le, je vous prie ; vous me par- 
donnerez mon indiscretion, j'espere, en faveur de 1'importance 
de la question. 

Ce que je vous demanderai encore, mon cher Chorley, 
c'est que si vous doutiez de ma reussite a Londres, de me le 
dire en ami et sans detour, et pour vous mettre plus a meme 
de pouvoir le faire, je vous dirai franchement, entre nous, que 
je gagne ici de 1200/. a 1300/. par an, ce qui vous expliquera 
aussi mon embarras. 

Je vous repete, mon cher Chorley, que tous vos conseils 



TO II. F. CHOELEY, 1850 235 

seront reyus avec reconnaissance, et laissez-moi esperer que 
vous ne m'en voudrez pas de vous causer tant d'ennui. 
Mille compliments affectueux de rna femme et de 
Votre sinceTement devoue ami, 

CHARLES HALLE. 

H. F. Chorley, Esq.' 

[Translation] 
Manchester: August 23, 1850, Greenheys. 

My dear Chorley, I hope you are aware that, before leaving London, I 
made several attempts to find you at home, but they were all in vain, to 
my very great regret ; for I wanted greatly to have a long talk with you ; 
and to ask your advice once more as to the change of residence that I have 
so long projected, without having yet been able to put it into execution. 

One good conversation is worth more than a lengthy correspondence, 
but nevertheless, if you will have the goodness to answer a few words to 
the questions I shall put to you, I shall always greatly profit by them, 
and shall be very grateful, believe me. 

The idea of establishing myself in London has so ripened in my mind 
that I begin to think that I shall carry it out this winter ; it seems to me, 
at least, that I could never find a more favourable moment ; the death of 
Madame Dulcken, and Benedict's departure, must leave a momentary void 
which may, perhaps, make a prompt success more easy. If I still hesitate 
a little, it is solely because my position here is really a very good one, and 
the thought of losing it, without soon finding at least an equivalent one, 
torments me on account of my family, which is a large one, as you know. 
You will understand therefore, my dear Chorley, why I ask my true 
friends, and I count you among them, to aid me by their counsels and to 
indicate, as far a; may be, the means that might serve to render success 
more prompt and more easy. I know too little of the terrain of London 
to be able to ask you precise questions, excepting this one however : At 
what time of the year should you advise me to arrive ? would it be neces- 
sary for me to come before the month of January or February ? As to all 
the rest. I trust in your good nature ; I know that you will give me all the 
advice you can, and I promise to follow it with gratitude. 

If you can enter int > details, even as to the part of the town that you 
would recommend me to reside in, do so, I beg of you ; you will forgive 
my indiscretion, I hope, in virtue of the importance of the question. 

Another thing I would ask you, my dear Chorley, is that if you have 
any doubts as to my success in London, you will tell me so as a friend, 
and without circumlocution, and to place you more in a position to do so, I 
will tell you frankly, between ourselves, that I earn between 1 ,2001. and 
1,300Z. a year here ; this will explain my hesitation. 

I repeat, my dear Chorley, that all your advice will be received with 
gratitude, and let me hope that you will bear me no ill-will for giving you 
so much trouble. 

A thousand affectionate compliments from my wife and from your 
sincerely devoted friend, CUAELES HALLE. 



236 LETTERS 

XVIII 

TO GLOVER, ESQ. 

[The following is one of the first letters my father ever 
wrote in English. Up to this time his correspondence, even 
with the managing director of the Concert Hall, had always 
been carried on in French or German ; but from the date of 
his arrival in Manchester he had perseveringly taught himself 
ICnglish, carrying on the study principally in the omnibuses, 
on the way to and from his pupils' houses. Every morning 
he left home with a dictionary or grammar in his pocket, and 
by the autumn of 1850 he could write as follows :] 

Manchester: September 13, 1850. 
Greenheys. 

Dear Sir, Allow me to present you my best thanks for 
the copy of your ' Jerusalem,' which you have had the kind- 
ness to send me, and the perusal of which will certainly give 
me a very great pleasure. 

As to the execution of your work at the next Xmas con- 
cert, I think you should apply to the directors of the Concert 
Hall, as I have only to conduct, but not to make the choice 
of the performance, and if they accept your proposition, I for 
myself, will very readily join them. 

Excuse my bad English, and, believe me, dear Sir, 

Yours very truly, 

CHARLES HALLE. 

Glover, Esq. 

XIX 

TO HIS MOTHER 

(Translated from the German) 

Greenheys, Manchester : 

April 10, 1851. 

My dear Mother, I have let many fete-days pass with- 
out sending you my go.od wishes, but I have perfect confidence 
that you have not been angry with me, as you know my busy 



TO HIS MOTHER, 1851 237 

life too well. But your birthday I will not pass over, but 
wish you such a joyful day, and in this wish all my family 
unite, that you may desire to have very many more to come. 
I also shall be a year older to-morrow, and expect a verv 
pleasant day, for, as my birthday present, we shall have 
the christening of our fat Fred, who seems almost able to 
run to church by himself, and is sure to make faces at 
the priest during the ceremony. Ernst is coming pur- 
posely from London to make music for me in the even- 
ing ; we are all well and hearty ; we shall see many good 
friends, so I have every right to expect a very pleasant day 
of rest. 

Your dear letters, which always give me the greatest 
pleasure, are looked forward to with eagerness, and they are 
always too short for me, and give me too few details of your 
life, which I should be so glad to follow step by step ; once 
for all, believe me that the minutest details are interesting to 
me. It is a blessing for you that Bernard 1 is here, who, I 
hope, sends you the amplest news of everything that happens ; 
where should I find the time for it ? In spite, however, of 
my being so busy, the new arrangement works so well that I 
am never over-tired, but always get to work with eagerness 
and pleasure, which formerly I could not have said. Ber- 
nard will also have informed you of the changes that will 
take place next month with regard to Mathilde : the thinsr 

- 1 - O / o 

may be considered fortunate, but for my poor mother-in-law 
the separation from her daughter will be very painful, and I 
doubt if she will get over it. 

Next week I go for a little while to London, but shall 
return here in the beginning of May for the wedding. The 
day before yesterday I played there, and, thank God ! with 
the usual success. The news of your musical doings amused 
me very much by all means go on with them. Now, dear 
mother and dear Anna, lebt reclit wolil. Desiree, Mathilde, the 
four children send you their best love, and I beg you to give 

1 His younger brother. 



238 LETTERS 

mine to all my dear friends and relations. "Write very soon 
to your loving son and brother, 

CARL. 

PS I n your next letter, my dear mother, I beg you to 
give me an idea of the state of your finances, that my mind 
may be easy, 

XX 

TO FEED. HILLER 
(Translated from the German") 

Manchester : July 31, 1851. 

My dear Hiller, Through Ernst, I heard a few days ago, 
with joyful surprise, of your arrival in London, and to-day I 
received the card you sent me by young Mr. Cleather, which 
I took as a proof that you still remember me. Therefore, I 
ask you at once, how long are you staying in London ? It is 
my intention to take my wife for a few days to London that 
she may see the Exhibition, and if I only knew how long you 
meant to stay I should arrange this excursion so as to meet 
you there. 

It would give me so much pleasure to spend a few hours 
with you, and to hear full details of your new and beautiful 
position ; we have much to relate on both sides ; nine years 
have passed since I saw you last, and they have brought much 
and taken much away; the few days I spent at that time 
with you, and the hearty kindness of your hospitality, belong 
to the dearest and pleasantest of my recollections. Write to 
me soon, dear Hiller, and let me know when I must start 
in order to be able to tell you by word of mouth how much I 
care for, and esteem you. 

To our speedy meeting, therefore. My wife adds her 
kindest remembrances to my own. 

Your faithful friend, 

C. HALLE. 



TO ERNST, 1851 239 

XXI 

TO ERNST 
{Translated from the German') 

Manchester: August 10, 1851. 

My dear Ernst, Mr. Kaufmann is at last on the wing 
and starts to-morrow, and with him the long-desired shirts, 
to which I wish all possible success. Before we speak of 
anything else I must, by my wife's orders, give you a few 
explanations, as follows : the number of them is eight, and the 
cost 5L 9s., which makes for each specimen 13s. and a frac- 
tion, as it was estimated. Mr. Kaufmann is therefore com- 
missioned to return you 11s. The shirts are all well cut, and, 
it is to be hoped, will fit well, only the front buttons are not 
all put on aright, and do not quite exactly face the button- 
holes ; that you will have to get remedied ; we only discovered 
the blunder to-day, or it would have been set right here. 
As a final clause let me add, that should the quality of the 
linen, or anything else, not please you, I am ready to keep 
them myself. Your own pattern is returned with them. 

Now let us have done with the shirts ! First let me beg 
you to interest yourself in our good friend Kaufmann ; it is, 
I believe, his first visit to Paris, and you can give him many 
useful hints. I am also giving him a few lines for Heller, 
perhaps for Lehmann as well, and if you can make him 
acquainted with a few others capable of furthering the object 
of his visit to Paris to amuse himself I shall be much be- 
holden to you. As a capital viola-player he deserves all one's 
sympathies, and certainly he is a very good fellow. 

I see in to-day's ' Musical Work ' that you are going to 
travel and give concerts in Switzerland, and that Stockhausen 
goes with you. I envy you both, and should like to be of 
the party. One of these days we must really treat ourselves 
to such a little freak, and do a little artistic travel together ; 
if it does not amuse the public, it certainly will amuse us so 
well, that we may forget the noble public altogether. I 
imagine we should have great fun. 



240 LETTERS 

Before you undertake the Swiss journey I hope to hear 
from you ; write at length, how you are, what your further 
projects are afcer Switzerland, and above all, when we may 
hope to see you in England again ; if you intend to return 
with the fogs, or think of other winter quarters. Write 
about it all fully for once in a way, just for the sake of 
novelty, and you shall be praised. Joking apart, you know 
how much it is our wish to be able to follow you, at least in 
thought, and a long letter would be taken as a real proof of 
friendship. 

In anticipation of your questions, I inform you at once 
that all my family are well, the children have got rid of the 
whooping-cough, and my wife is well and hearty. The only 
one who gives me great anxiety is my brother ; since his 
return the cough and hemorrhage have recommenced, and I 
think he will have to leave England. 

I am making the most of the comparatively quiet time, 
and work very hard, so as, if possible, to produce something ; 
for when, next month, the treadmill of lessons begins anew, 
everything else comes to a stop. 

What are you doing ? Did I dream of a quartet that you 
began long ago, or did you speak of it ? Anyhow, I ask how 
far you have got with it. I should also be glad to hear of 
Heller's work ; induce him to write to me again. 

Now, farewell, dear friend, and receive, with our heartiest 
greetings, our best wishes for your happiness and content- 
ment. A thousand kind messages to Eckert, Frank, &c., &c., 
and write soon to your true friend, HALLE. 

Mathilde has safely reached New Orleans. 

XXII 

TO STEPHEN HELLER 
(Translated from the German} 

Manchester: August 10, 1851. 

My dear Heller, These lines will be delivered to you by 
one of my best friends here, Mr. Kaufmann, and you would 
oblige me greatly, by doing your utmost to further his inteii- 



TO STEPHEN HELLER, 1851 241 

tion of amusing himself during the eight days of his first 
visit to Paris. He is a nice, clever, and musical young man. 
Treat him therefore as you would wish me to treat one of 
your friends. 

And now let me ask how things have gone with you during 
the long time that we have not seen, and still less written to 
each other. From time to time I have heard through Ernst 
that you were well, but that was all, so you see that there is 
many a hiatus to fill up ; let me hope you will repair them 
here and there, and I shall be grateful. 

How often I curse my own laziness in letter-writing I 
cannot tell you, for otherwise I hope I should not be so 
entirely cut off from my old friends as is now the case ; to say 
nothing of the fact that it gives them the full right to lose 
confidence in me; but should this ever happen to you, then 
think of the old days, and believe that I am always unchanged 
and the same, that is to say that I have never felt so closely 
drawn, nor attached in such true friendship, to any man as 
to you. You will perhaps say : ' il n'y parait pas,' but all the 
same it is so. 

Above all give me news of your work, dear Heller. Of 
course I know what has been published in England since 
last year, but I suppose that is not all ; what has become of 
the Sonata (in B if I am not mistaken) of which you played 
the beginning to me in London ? You were yourself, and 
with full cause, so very satisfied with this opening that I 
hoped you would not rest until it was completed ; if it is 
actually so, do come out with it, nor let us, who are so well- 
disposed, pine any longer for it in vain. 

Of the published works I like best the charming ' Ber- 
ceuse,' the exhilarating ' Chasse,' and the delicious little piece 
on Mendelssohn's ' Minnelied.' I play them often ; I like 
the others also, and produce them often, but the first are my 
special favourites. But give us something greater, dear 
Heller, something to work at, otherwise we shall get lazy. 
Things are going sadly in the musical world, a penury reigns 
which you know better than I ; to whom shall we turn for 

K 



242 LETTERS 

comfort ? Therefore, out of compassion, you should come to the 
rescue ; it is your bounden duty, for you are the only one to 
whom the faithful can look for help. 

Next winter, most probably in January, I shall certainly 
see you in Paris, if only for a short time ; let us hope we may 
live through some of the old days again : I am still ready to 
come to you at night, with a bottle of champagne under my 
cloak, and under such circumstances to play through the 
9th Symphony again. But I will not speak of next January 
as if until then we were to be dead to each other ; on the con- 
trary, write to me, and you shall see that I also will mend 
my ways. 

Ernst will have imparted to you news of all that has 
occurred here of interest, also that M. has married our brother- 
in-law M., and that they have arrived safely at New Orleans. 
Of musical events there have been few, but I am anxious to 
know the effect of Gounod's opera ; the most certain part of 
it will be a duet between Davison and Chorley. As I hear, 
Berlioz has greatly praised Thalberg's opera oh, weakness ! 
La plume est doimee a I'Jwmme pour deguiser sa pensee. 

Adieu, dear Heller, and Mie wohl ! My wife sends you 
her kindest greetings, and still hopes to see you some day at 
Greenheys. Write soon, lleibe gut. 

Your faithful and true friend, 

HALL. 

XXIII 

TO MR. RENSHAW 

Manchester : 14 aout 1851, 

Greenheys. 

Mon cher Eenshaw, 1 Jepense, commevous, que lesmor- 
ceaux que Beale nous nomme sont vieux comme le monde, 
mais que faire ? II y a un trio dans ' II Flauto Magico ' (' Dun- 
que il mio ben non vedro piu ? '), que vous pourrez proposer, 
mais je ne crois pas qu'il y en ait dans ' Le Prophete,' plutot 
dans ' Les Huguenots ; ' mais c'est surtout contre les Duos 

1 Director of the Manchester Concert Hall. 



TO MR. EENSHAW, MANCHESTER, 1851 243 

qu'il faut se revolter : nous les avons eus quatre cents fois au 
inoins, et il doit y en avoir d'autres dans le monde, peut-etre 
y en a-t-il dans ' Le Prophete,' et certainement dans ' Robert ' 
ou ' Les Huguenots.' Je ne connais pas plus Mile Fischer 
que vous ; pourtant, je pense que pour le concert ou Mme 
Sontag cliantera nous aurons plutot besoin d'un chanteur que 
d'une chanteuse, et pour cette raison je prefererais Stigelli ; 
qui aurons-nous encore ? 

L'air de Stradella, celui de ' Saffo ' et les Spanish Songs 
seront interessants ; Tamberlick devrait chanter autre chose 
que 1'eternel ' Tesoro ; ' ' Le Piff, paff ' n'ira qu'avec accom- 
pagnement d'orchestre, que nous n'avons pas pu obtenir la 
derniere fois lorsque Formes voulait le chanter. Tamberlick 
chante 1'air de ' Fidelio ' tres bien, pourvu que cela fasse de 
1'effet dans un concert ; proposez-le-lui toujours. 

Quant aux ouvertures, je pense que pour le premier con- 
cert celles de ' Preciosa,' ' Fra Diavolo ' et ' Nozze di Figaro ' 
suffiront ; mercredi prochain nous en essayerons quelques 
nouvelles pour le second. Du reste j'approuve parfaitement 
votre programme, et si vous venez mercredi a la repetition 
nous pourrons en causer encore. 

Mille amities de 
Votre bien devoue 

CHARLES HALLE. 1 

1 [ Translation] 

Manchester: August 14, 1851, Creenheys. 

My dear Renshaw, I think, with you, that the pieces Beale proposes 
are as old as the hills, but what can we do ? There is a trio in ' The Magic 
Flute ' ( ' Dunque il mio ben non vedro piu 1 ' ) which you might suggest, but 
I do not think there is one in ' Le Prophete,' rather in ' Les Huguenots ; ' 
but it is especially against the duets that we must rebel, we have had 
them four hundred times, at least, and there must be others in existence, 
perhaps there are some in the ' Prophete ' and certainly in ' Robert ' or ' Les 
Huguenots.' I know no more of Mile. Fischer than you do, but I think 
that for a concert at which Madame Sontag is to sing we rather need a 
male singer than another lady, and for this reason I should prefer 
Stigelli ; whom have we besides ? 

The air of Stradella, the one from ' Saffo,' and the Spanish songs will be 
interesting; Tamberlick ought to sing something else besides the eternal 



244 LETTERS 

XXIV 

TO ERNST 
(Translated from the German') 

Manchester: September 19, 1851. 

My dear Ernst, I must hasten, if I am to send you a 
line from Greenheys before you have taken flight, I hope with 
renewed strength and vigour, from your quiet Bougival to 
heaven knows what corner of the world. The story of your 
sufferings, old friend, touched me more than I can say. I 
felt for all your annoyances, but I have the firm conviction, 
that just this idyllic Huhnerleben 1 and the complete rest have 
been your best cure, and that our friend Iloth has had an 
easy task. But try to let this cure suffice, a repetition of it 
might be terribly tedious ; everything in moderation, even an 
idyll in Bougival. 

Your life lately could, it seems, be described in a few 
words, and so indeed could ours, as far as outside events are 
concerned ; always the same eating and drinking parties, the 
same chess and whist parties, only in the latter there has 
been a slight interruption, friend Stern having gone for three 
weeks to Frankfort, to recover from the delights of too much 
lobster, but he is expected home to-morrow, and all will be 
the same again. 

My brother still causes me great anxiety, and I am now 
convinced that the English climate would destroy him entirely 
if he remained here much longer; therefore he starts for Italy 

'Tesoro;' ' Piff, paff,' would only do with orchestral accompaniment, 
which we were unable to procure last time, when Formes wanted to sing 
it. Tamberlick sings the air from ' Fidelio ' very well, provided that it 
prove effective in a concert room ; propose it to him, anyhow. 

As to the overtures, I think that for the first concert those of 
' Preciosa,' ' Fra Diavolo ' and ' Nozze di Figaro ' will suffice ; next Wednes- 
day we shall try some new ones for the second. For the rest I perfectly 
approve of your programme, and if you will come to the rehearsal on 
Wednesday we can talk of it further. 

A thousand kind regards from your very devoted 

CHAKLES HALLE. 
1 Leading a life like the fowls. 



TO ERNST, MANCHESTER, 1851 245 

in October, most probably to some town in Sicily, and I hope 
he may return in a few years quite recovered and strong 
again ; all the doctors promise it ; may they be right ! This 
is for the present the only cloud on our horizon, but you will 
believe that it is a very dark one. We have good news of 
M., she seems to be pleased with her new life, and to have 
made many friends ; greetings to you I must not forget. 

Our friend the viola-player and shirt-carrier seems to 
have enjoyed himself right well in Paris, but much regrets 
not to have seen you at all, and Heller only once ; please tell 
the latter that I was astonished to hear from the aforesaid 
friend viola-player that he had reproached Heller for not 
having kept his promise to send me news of Gounod's opera 5 
a promise which Heller denied, and with good reason. I 
knew quite well he made no such promise, and cannot under- 
stand through what confusion of ideas Kaufmann had come to 
such a conclusion. I laughed heartily at the mistake. After 
this explanation I hope Heller will bear me no further grudge 
but will write to me soon ; urge him to do so, the man has no 
idea what pleasure he would give me. Of late I have busied 
myself more than usual with his works, for instance his great 
(B minor) sonata suddenly became quite clear to me, and 
delighted and touched me much. I had not previously gone 
into it so deeply. I had found many beauties but had not 
entirely lifted the veil from them all. It now appears to me 
as his greatest and most complete work, and one which, with- 
out exaggeration, has in my opinion few rivals of its kind ; it 
makes me eager to talk to Heller about it, and almost to ask 
his pardon for having been so slow in arriving at this convic- 
tion, but how can one make it clear in words that one under- 
stands apiece of music ? one can only give the assurance with- 
out being able to offer proof ; therefore I hope during this 
winter, by playing it to him, to give him such a proof. I 
have made up my mind in short to go to Paris in February, 
at last, even if only for a few weeks, and I promise myself 
many pleasant hours with Heller during the time. 

Now to come back to yourself. I was much pleased to 



246 LETTERS 

hear that you had the good intention to employ your qniet 
time in Bougival in composition, and hope you will com- 
municate the result at our next meeting. How is the quartet 
getting on? I shall perhaps have one also to pester you 
with, at least I am working at one, and, naturally, your play- 
ing sounds continually in my ear, and helps me greatly. 

Sivori was here lately, at the Free Trade Hall, but caused 
little faror-e ; such rubbish as the man plays now I had never 
heard, and really, as an artist, felt ashamed of him. Sainton 
played a fortnight ago at the Concert Hall, where, at last, 
we also had Madame Sontag. Spohr's ninth concerto, first-rate, 
only the double-stopping in the finale did not quite succeed ; 
moreover I find this finale very empty and tiresome. 

The news that Hiller has accepted the Paris post and, I 
believe, the London one as well, I had already been told, as a 
secret, by Stern, only I do not clearly understand the matter ; 
in the German papers it is said that he is chef d'orchestre ; you 
call him general music director, and Stern tells me he will re- 
place Lumley, who, for the future, will merely look on, and does 
not intend to conduct again ; if this be true, I do not think 
the situation will be a very pleasant one. If you see him in 
Paris please recall me to his memory. 

Now, enough gossip for to-day; exert yourself on your side, 
old friend; write, above all, that you have quite recovered, and 
do not forget to make me acquainted with your plans, so 
that I may be able to write to you from time to time. Greet 
all friends and acquaintances for me, and it is self-understood 
that all from here most heartily do the same by you. Leben 
sie wohl und yliicldich I Your faithful C. HALLE. 

XXV 

FROM HENRY F. CHOELEY 

13 Eaton Place, W. 

October 20, 1851. 

My dear Halle, My holiday is now over. Is yours 
coming to come ? or have the young Manchester ladies caught 
hold of you, and won't let you go ? I wish we could have met 



FEOM H. F. CIIORLEY, 1851 247 

somewhere in Italy, because there is something in 
the air of that country which makes me more agreeable 
than I am anywhere else ; however, so completely this 
year have I proved the value of it as a prescription, 
that I think I shall try it again next year, in spite of the 
dirt, and in spite of the dust, and in spite of the heat, 
and in spite of the fleas. Perhaps this next time I may be 
more lucky in finding company. I came home by Genoa, 
Turin, over the Mont Cenis, to Lyons, Paris, where I stayed 
about nine days, and arrived at home on Saturday night with 
literally not enough money to pay my cab ! Paris seemed 
very full. I saw Mme. Viardot twice, who had come from 
the country to nurse M. Scheffer, who is very ill. She 
seemed well and in cheerful spirits, and she spoke of Berlin 
in January, and then of coming to England immediately, 
with some view, I fancy, of passing a large part of her time 
here. It really seems to me that, if this be the case, consi- 
dering the lost prestige of the Philharmonic Concerts and the 
offence which Mr. Ella has contrived to give, that something, 
with the means in our reach, betwixt a grand orchestral and 
a chamber concert, might be given in the way of entertain- 
ment say a subscription of six to which the public would 
respond, and which might be made choicer than anything of 
the kind in being. Pensez-y. I saw M. Meyerbeer in Paris, 
who seemed to me more cowardly and cautious than ever, 
and saw, I think, at a distance, M. Heller, looking very old 
and white-haired and savage. What else I have seen and 
heard is all written, and most of it printed, in the Athenaeum. 
Since I came back I have seen no one, save Benedict, 
who looks very wretched, and says he has lost half his fortune 
in these American failures, and Miss Gabriel. I fancy Mrs. 
Sartoris is in London for the winter, but I have hardly washed 
myself clean or unpacked myself, or read my letters, and so I 
have not yet asked at her door where she is. In fact, I merely 
send this as a card to announce my return, and so with best 
love to Mme. Halle (no offence to Mme. E.) and to the children, 
believe me to be ever yours, HENRY F. CHORLEY. 



248 LETTERS 

XXVI 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 2 Janvier 1854, 

12 Rue Saint-Georges. 

Mon cher Halle, . . . D'Ernst, je n'en sais rien sinon 
que j'ai appris son projet de visiter 1'Angleterre. II a donne 
des concerts en Allemagne avec beaucoup de succes. Eckert 
est nomine Maitre de Chapelle a 1'opera de Vienne et il com- 
mencera ses fonctions le l cr avril. II est a Paris, ou il 
donne quelques lecons de chant, entre autres a Mile Cruvelli. 
F. devient to u jours davantage ce qu'il a promis depuis long- 
temps ; voila au moins un liomme qui ne trompe pas les espe- 
rances qu'il a fait concevoir a ses amis. II est morose, 
ennuye, maladif et mecontent de tout le monde. Get en- 
semble rejouissant est rachete par les resultats extraordi- 
naires qu'il a obtenu, et obtient encore, de son commerce 
intime avec les somnambules d'une lucidite garantie, et avec 
des tables et des gueridons prophetiques et revelateurs. 
Gouvy est en Allemagne, ou ses symphonies, me dit-on, ob- 
tienrient beaucoup de succes. Bolm est un peu soufFrant 
toujours ; il travaille, mais en secret, et on ne sait pas ce 
qu'il fait. C'est toujours un excellent garcon. . . . 

Berlioz est revenu d' Allemagne, enchante des orchestres 
et des publics allemands. II va y retourner au niois 
d'avril. II n'a rien fait de nouveau. Voila mon sac a nou- 
velles vide. J'ai eu 1'honneur de voir ce matin M. X., qui 
restera un mois a Paris ; il a meme laisse esperer un plus 
long sejour parmi nous. Grace a son exterieur faible et 
delicat il sait se donner un faux air de Chopin. La sante 
peut lui manquer ; le talent manque certainement. D'ailleurs 
un pareil artiste se porte toujours trop bien. Ceci n'est pas 
tres chretien, mais les vrais artistes sont un peu pai'ens ; il ne 
serait pas malheureux s'ils etaient tout a fait ' Haydnisch,' 1 sans 
porter prejudice a tous les Beethoven modernes qui pullulent 
au dire de certains gens. 

1 A play on the German word ' haidenisch,' heathen. 



FROM MR. J. ELLA, 1854 249 

Je termine, et je te prie de dire mes amities cordiales a 
Mme Halle et de croire a I'amitie sincere de ton devoue 

STEPHEN HELLER. 1 

XXVII 

FROM MR. J. ELLA 

London: November 3, 1854. 

Dear Halle, I am just home from a three months' ramble 
in Switzerland and France. All the musical news there has 
long ago reached you through the various channels M. 
World, Athenceum, &c. I saw both Chorley and Davison at 
Paris, and had a long discussion with them separately. I was 
one of the four temoins at the wedding of Berlioz, and I am 

1 \_Translation~] 

Paris : January 2, 1854. 

My dear Halle, ... I know nothing about Ernst, except that I heard 
of his project of visiting England. He gave concerts in Germany with 
great success. Eckert is appointed conductor at the Opera at Vienna and 
enters upon his functions on April 1. He is in Paris, where he gives sing- 
ing lessons, to Mile. Cruvelli among others. F. is daily becoming more 
like what he always promised to be ; here, at least, is a man who does not 
betray the hopes he has led his friends to conceive. He is morose, dis- 
appointed, sickly, and ill-pleased with all the world. This agreeable 
ensemble is redeemed by the extraordinary results he has obtained, and 
still obtains from his intimate commerce with somnambulists of guaranteed 
lucidity, and with tables and standishes of the prophetic and revelatory 
order. Gouvy is in Germany, where his symphonies, they tell me, meet -with 
great success. Bohn is still rather ailing ; he works, but in secret, and no 
one knows what he is doing. He is always an excellent fellow. 

Berlioz has come back from Germany, enchanted with German 
orchestras and audiences. He is going to return thither in April. He 
has done nothing new. Now I have emptied my newsbag. This morning 

I had the honour of seeing M. X who will remain in Paris a month ; 

he even held out hopes of a longer stay among us. Thanks to his feeble 
and delicate appearance he manages to give himself a false air of Chopin. 
He may be wanting in health he is certainly wanting in talent. For 
that matter, such an artist as he always enjoys too much health. This 
may be somewhat un-Christian ; but all true artists are a trifle heathenish ; 
it would be no misfortune if they were altogether ' Haydnisch,' without 
prejudice to all the modern Beethovens that swarm around us, according 
to some people. 

Now I must make an end, and beg you to present my cordial regards 
to Madame Hall6 and to believe in the sincere friendship of your devoted 

STEPHEN HBLLEB. 



250 LETTEES 

happy to say that he is in better spirits, with only one wife 
to provide for. Ernst is enjoying a passive matrimonial 
existence with a florid amount of maternal eloquence ad lib. 
I am scarcely sufficiently settled to make any visits, and have 
not yet been to the Prince of Waterloo's soirees Jullien ; 
you know that he has purchased a chateau near Waterloo ? 
I meant to call on Molique to inquire after your pupil, my 
next debutante. Arabella 1 is doing wonders on the Continent, 
selon ses amis. I dined last week with Massart, and was 
charmed with his wife and her talent. 

Remember me to your good lady and tell her I hope she 
may live long enough to see me go to the quartet-conspiration 
with her, as predicted. Alas ! the war will make us feel, 
next year, its direful consequences. Send me the dates of 
your concerts, and tell me if you seriously contemplate en- 
gaging Vieuxtemps at one of them. I saw the L.'s in Paris, 
en route from Switzerland. Odd enough, they and my party 
were in Martigny they going to and we coming from Cha- 
mounix on the same evening, and both parties heard a Prus- 
sian officer (engineer) play Beethoven's ' Son. Pathetique,' 
Mendelssohn's March, and the Sonata in A flat, con Marcia 
funebre ! very well indeed ! I can never forget the impres- 
sion ! Lovely, mild night, full, bright moon, sitting outside 
the auberge after dinner, in a valley surrounded with peaks 
of St. Bernard, &c., &c. 

Heller was looking a little grey ; I saw La Clausen, she is 
working, but not yet married. Her fiance I frequently met, 
at Galignani's. The Guides band has created quite a furore. 
Men ply them with beer and champagne ; the life they lead, 
if recorded, would be a curiosity in ventures cliez les Anglais 
et les Anglaises. If all fail, I will try a moustache and uni- 
form, and enter the bonds of matrimony. Again, best 
regards to Madame Halle and the children and believe me 
yours faithfully, J. ELLA. 

So Anderson invited you to Osborne ! Better late than 
never. 

1 Miss Arabella Goddard. 



FROM EICHAED DOYLE, 1857 251. 



XXVIII 
FROM RICHARD DOYLE 

Stafford Club, Albemarle Street : 

November 5, 1857. 

My dear Halle, Your not having turned up in this part 
of the world makes me fear that the influenza may resemble 
me in one respect, that of paying very long visits. I hope it 
is not the case, and that Mrs. Halle and yourself have both 
long since forgotten that there are colds in this life. Also I 
should like very much to hear that your little Charley is 
quite well. 

Since I came to town I have been leading a very quiet 
life, scarcely seeing any body or thing. London looks very 
dark and ' muggy,' the weather being seasonable and Novem- 
ber fogs the fashion. The public seems getting tired of 
talking about India, and gladly clings hold of the ' big ship ' 
for a change. When the news of the failure in the attempt 
to launch her became known, it gave as painful a shock to 
every one as did the first intelligence, two months ago, of 
General Havelock's being obliged to retire on Cawnpore. 

' Tom Brown ' tells me, in a letter, that his sister, Mrs. 
Senior, was to arrive last Monday in town. I have not yet 
been to see if it is an ' accomplished fact.' I have seen 
Watts, and after all he has not been, and does not go, to 
Lord Lansdowne's. It appears that the scaffolding required 
for his fresco would so interfere with the comfort of visitors, 
who are now at Bowood, that the Marquis has written to 
propose that he should put off going to work till spring. 
And this after Watts, with much pain to himself, had given 
up the Art Treasures, and your kind invitation, solely on the 
ground that the preparations for the fresco in London would 
require all his time. Such is, &c. 

I hope Mr. Fairbairn is very well, and that the executive 
committee are as well as can be expected under the circum- 
stances. Have many of the pictures gone home ? Is the 
exhibition building so changed that its best friend would not 



252 LETTERS 

know it again ? Does the pike man cry ' two pence ' with 
the same cheerful tone as before, or is his voice dashed witli 
melancholy at the thought of the ' days that are no more ' ? 
Is my favourite lamp-post as firm and steady in the legs, and 
as light-headed as of yore ? 

The Duke of Devonshire, by the way, was rather annoyed 
at not getting his pictures sent back at once, as he wanted 
them hung in their places while the party was at Clumber, 
and I see a letter in the Daily News to-day complaining of 
the writer's pictures not being returned to him. 

Please tell Mrs. Halle that the reading of her letter was 
the pleasantest French lesson I have had for a very long 
time. Ever sincerely yours, R. DOYLE. 

P.S. This being Guy Faux Day the streets are full of 
guys, but instead of Cardinal Wiseman being, as usual, the 
popular representative of the character a sepoy seems ' the 
thing.' Here is one I have just seen in Bond Street. 

Nov. 7 (another P.S.). I forgot to post this on Thursday, 
and have had it in my pocket for two days. For the next 
few days my address will be Strawberry Hill, Twickenham, 
Surrey. 

XXIX 

TO HIS MOTHER 
(Translated from the German) 

Greenheys, Manchester : 
October 22, 1858. 

My dear Mother, It seems incredible, bufc it is none the 
less true, that only the desire of writing fully and at great 
length, to tell you how happy I was during my stay with you, 
and with what pleasure I think of the too short time spent 
with you, has been the very cause of my not writing at all. 
It seemed to me quite impossible only to send you a few 
lines, and so I fell into the old habit of procrastination, and 
days, weeks, even a month, have flown by so quickly that I 
can only think of them with amazement. Regret in such 



TO HIS MOTHER, MANCHESTER, 1858 253 

cases always comes too late, but be assured, and you will 
readily believe me, that only stress of work in making up for 
lost time and preparing for the coming season has kept me 
silent so long, and certainly no lack of good-will, nor of love 
and gratitude for the happy hours you made me enjoy. 

No, never did a visit to you do me more good than this 
last one ; from the first to the last hour it was beautiful : I 
really revelled in the remembrances of my happy childhood, 
and I am now almost glad that a month has passed since my 
visit, and brings us so much the nearer to the next one, 

O * 

which I can only wish may resemble it in gemiithlichen, homely, 
and peaceful joy. 

I found all my family in the best condition on my return, 
strengthened and invigorated by sea-bathing ; the little ones 
had much to tell of donkey rides and other pleasures, and 
they amuse us often with their very comical recollections. 
They have now got used to their Manchester life again, and 
are all working hard at their lessons. In what concerns my 
own business, I found the time I had allowed myself for pre- 
paration for my first concert, which took place on September 15, 
all too short ; my whole orchestra had to be re-organised, and 
I have really had not a minute's rest. Besides this, the new 
choral society, of which I had laid the foundations before my 
departure, had to be brought to completion, and in this I 
have got so far that its first concert, Haydn's ' Creation,' takes 
place this very day, with the unheard of number of 1,600 
subscribers, and an orchestra and chorus of 300. I have just 
come home from the very satisfactory final rehearsal, and am 
full of expectation for this evening. My chamber music con- 
certs will recommence on November 25, the St. Cecilia in a 
fortnight, und so geht der alte Trodel wieder los. 

But now as to the surprising and saddening news of 
Cornelius' * illness, how truly it went to my heart you, and he 
especially, will easily understand ; I cling unspeakably to the 
good old honest friend ; his strong constitution makes me hope 
that he has already overcome the disease, whatever it may be, 
1 Cornelius Fliiss, the greatest friend of his childhood. 



254 LETTERS 

and I hope to God that I do not deceive myself. Give me 
further news of him soon, as I cannot overcome a certain feel- 
ing of uneasiness ; greet him most heartily from me, and 
exhort him, in iny name, in future not to trust too much to 
the strength of his constitution, but, like weaker mortals, to 
take a little care of himself. 

Another thing I am anxiously awaiting tidings of is your 
threatened removal ; I hope such an annoyance is not really 
before you for the dear home has become so cosy but 
should it come to that we shall have to take counsel together, 
and after all, one's well-being does not depend upon one's 
walls. 

The hour of the concert will soon strike, and I have still 
much to do, so I finish for to-day, with my love to you and 
Anna, and greetings to Uncle Koch and his wife and children, 
to dear Aunt Altgelt, to Cornelius and his wife, to Baldewein, 
to Gustav Butz, Friedrich Wolff in short, to all who 
remember me with affection, and of whom I think so often. 
Write to me soon and much. 

Your loving 

CARL. 

Of course, best love from all here. The enclosed 10/. 
note will soon be followed by another. 

[The Aunt Altgelt mentioned in the foregoing letter was my 
grandmother's eldest sister. Married at the age of sixteen, 
after two short years of happiness she was left a widow at 
eighteen, and from that date, refusing all offers of marriage, she 
devoted herself to her young husband's memory and to the care 
of her child. This little girl, Minna Altgelt, after some childish 
illness at four years of age, which was mismanaged by the local 
doctor, fell into confirmed ill-health, and became almost totally 
paralysed, and her life, until the age of thirty-six, when death 
mercifully put a term to her sufferings, was a continued martyr- 
dom to herself and to the poor mother, whose own life was 
absorbed in daily, anxious care and solicitude for her stricken 
child. 

Minna Altgelt was, perhaps, the most gifted member of a 
gifted family, and the more crippled and helpless her mortal 



TO HIS MOTHER, MANCHESTER, 1858 255 

frame became, so much the brighter did the flame of her intellect 
appear to shine. Unable to raise her hands more than a few 
inches from her lap, she yet taught herself to use them in a 
remarkable manner, and her delicate embroideries were the 
admiration of all who saw them, although she could only slowly 
draw the silken thread through the fabric in lengths of two or 
three inches at a time. 

Passionately fond of music, she often had herself carried to 
the homely ' Concordia ' concerts, the chief musical society of 
the little town. These concerts were frequently followed by an 
assembly ball, and when Minna Altgelt felt well enough she 
would sometimes remain after the concert to watch the dancing 
for an hour ; on these occasions the young men would crowd 
around her couch, so brilliant, so full of wit and charm was 
her conversation. 

Not the least interesting feature of her individuality was her 
reputed and firmly- credited gift of second sight, several curious 
instances of which have survived at Hagen up to the present day. 
So firmly did her family and friends believe in this attribute of 
hers that during my father's first long absence from home, when- 
ever my grandmother had been left an unduly long time without 
news of him, she would refrain from going to see Minna, fearing 
she might have, through her mysterious gift, some ill-tidings to 
impart. Minna would then send her a message, ' Tell Aunt 
Caroline she need not be afraid to come and see me I have seen 
nothing, all is well at Paris.' 

As will readily be believed, the poor invalid's room, filled 
with plants and flowers, and made gay with the song of birds and 
by every contrivance the ingenuity of love could invent, was the 
centre round which the whole family life revolved. She was the 
confidante, the receptacle for the troubles, the joys, the love- 
affairs, and the secrets of half the parish. 

On my father's second return to Hagen from Paris it was to 
her he confided the secret of his engagement to my mother, some 
time before he divulged it to his parents, and entrusted to her 
safe-keeping a beautiful miniature, by David, of his betrothed. 
This portrait Minna hid in the recesses of her work-table, a per- 
fect labyrinth of drawers and shelves, specially constructed for 
her crippled state, which always stood beside her sofa. It was 
a subject of perplexity to all the other young members of the family 
why my father, during the whole period of his stay at Hagen, 
never left Minna's presence on his daily visits to her, without 



256 LETTERS 

making a profound bow to her work-table ; and no one, they say, 
who had once seen it, could ever forget the exquisite smile with 
which Minna Altgelt watched her young kinsman's chivalrous act 
of homage to the concealed image of his future wife. In 1844 
Minna Altgelt died, and her mother survived her for more than 
thirty years.] 

XXX 

TO HIS WIFE 

Londres : 3 mai 1859. 

Hier j'ai d'abord repete avec Wieniawsky, ensuite j'ai 
assiste cliez Joachim a la repetition des qnatuors de Beet- 
hoven qu'il jouera mercredi ; c'etait magnifique, j'ai rarement 
eu un plus grand plaisir. Cela m'avait donne une rage de 
travailler telle que j'ai joue depuis mon diner jusqu'a nne 
heure du matin, etvoudrais pouvoir recommencer aujourd'hui. 1 

XXXI 

TO THE SAME 

Glasgow : 1" fevrier 1860. 

II y avait beaucoup de monde hier, dans une salle char- 
mante que je ne connaissais pas encore. . . . tout a bien 
marche. Le concert a fini avec la sonate dediee a Kreutzer, 
apres laquelle on nous a jete un bouquet, que tous deux 
nous avons regard e avec pas mal d'etonnement. Vieuxtemps 
ne bougeant pas, je 1'ai ramasse pour le lui offrir devant 
le public, mais il ne voulait pas 1'accepter ; alors je suis alle 
bravement dans la chambre des artistes et je 1'ai donne a 
Madame Vieuxtemps. 2 

1 [ Translation] 

London: May 3, 1859. 

Yesterday I first rehearsed with Wieniawsky ; then, at Joachim's, I 
assisted at the rehearsal of the Beethoven quartets that he is to play on 
Wednesday ; it was magnificent, I have rarely had a greater treat. It gave 
me such a rage for work that I practised from dinner-time until one 
o'clock in the morning, and wish I could begin again to-day. 

[Translation] 

Glasgow : February 1, 1860. 

There were a great many people yesterday, in a charming room that I 
had not seen before . . . everything went well. The concert ended with 



TO HIS WIFE, LONDON, 1860 257 

XXXII 

TO THE SAME 

Lundi. 

Que deux mots aujourd'hui : j'ai trois lecons a donner, une 
autre repetition pour ce soir, et il faut que je travaille encore 
cette fichue musique anglaise qui ne vaut pas le diable et 
cependant est d'un difficile incroyable. C'est vraiment une 
pitie de se donner tant de mal pour des choses qui n'en valent 
certes pas la peine ; mais comment refuser de jouer a un 
concert anglais a Londres ? J'aurais etc ecartele au moins dans 
le ' Times ' . . . J'arriverai mercredi dans 1'apres-midi et j'ai 
demande a D. de changer la repetition du vendredi au jeudi, 
car j'aurai probablement a repartir jeudi soir. 1 

XXXIII 

TO THE SAME 

Baden-Baden, 17 aout 1860, 

Hotel de Hollande. 

Je suis depuis hier a Baden ; le temps etait magnifique hier 
quand je suis parti de Heidelberg, ce qui m'a decide, et j'ai 
rencontre ici Berlioz, Richard Wagner, Danton, Sivori, Wolff, 
Cossmann, Piatti, et plusieurs autres vieilles connaissances. 
Avec Berlioz j'ai passe presque toute la journee d'hier : nous 
avons parcouru toute la partition d' ' Armide,' et, de souvenir, 

the Kreutzer sonata, after which we were thrown a bouquet, which we 
both looked at with no little astonishment. As Vieuxtemps did not budge. 
I picked it up and offered it to him before the public, but he would not 
accept it ; then I went bravely into the artists' room, and I gave it to 
Madame Vieuxtemps. 

1 [Translation] 

Monday. 

Only two words to-day ; I have three lessons to give, another rehearsal 
this evening, and I must work again at that wretched English music that 
is not worth a rap, and yet is incredibly difficult. It is really a pity to 

give oneself so much trouble about things that certainly are not worth it 

but how can one refuse to play at an English concert in London 1 I should 
have been drawn and quartered, at the least, by the Times ... I shall 
arrive on Wednesday afternoon, and I have asked D. to change the 
rehearsal from Friday to Thursday, as I shall probably have to leave again 
on Thursday evening. 

8 



258 LETTERS 

toute celle d' 'Iphigenie,' et j'ai appris bien des choses que je 
ne connaissais pas et qu'il salt de tradition ; il m'a montre 
des effets que je n'aurais pas pu trouver seul, je suis done 
bien content de Tavoir vu. Je t'ecris dans ce moment chez 
P., que j'ai rencontre ce matin. . . . Nous venons d'avoir une 
longue conversation au sujet du theatre a Manchester ; il est 
plus que jamais persuade de la possibilite de la chose, et 
croit que ce serait une bonne chose pour Manchester et pour 
moi. 1 

XXXIV 

TO THE SAME 

Paris : 19 aout T>0, 

Hotel du Louvre. 

... A Baden j'ai encore rencontre Mme Miolan et son 
mari, et Wieniawski avec sa femme ; j'ai de plus assiste a 
une repetition d'un grand concert, que Berlioz a dirige et 
ou il a repete une grande partie de ' 1'Orphee,' ce qui m'a 
bien vivement interesse ; j'y ai encore appris bien des effets 
que je ne connaissais pas : ce pauvre Berlioz du reste m'a 
fait une peine enorme ; jamais je n'ai vu un homme change 
comme lui, et a moins d'un miracle il sera certainement dans 
la tombe avant un an d'ici. II le sait lui-meme, et il en 
parle avec une tristesse qui navre le coeur. II etait si con- 
tent de me voir et de pouvoir parler musique a coeur ouvert ; 

[Translation] 

Baden-Baden, August 17, 1860, 

Hotel de Hollande. 

I have been at Baden eince yesterday ; the weather was magnificent 
when I left Heidelberg, which helped me to decide, and I have met here 
Berlioz, Kichard Wagner, Danton, Sivori, Wolff, Cossmann, Piatti, and 
several other old acquaintances. I spent nearly the whole day yesterday 
with Berlioz; we went through the score of 'Armida,' and, from memory, 
the whole of ' Iphigenia,' and I learned many things that I was ignorant 
of and which he knows by tradition. He showed me effects that I should 
never have discovered by myself. I am therefore very pleased to have 
seen him. I am writing in P.'s room, whom I met this morning ... We 
have just had a long talk about the Manchester Theatre ; he is more than 
ever convinced of the possibility of the scheme, and thinks it would be a 
good thing for Manchester and for me. 



TO HIS WIFE, 1861 259 

il ra'a dit que de longtemps il ne s'etait sent! aussi bien que 
pendant ces deux jours. . . . 

Je vais aller a la decouverte de Heller maintenanf, 
j'espere qu'il est a Paris; ce soir je compte aller entendre 
' Fra Diavolo ' a 1'Opera Comique, a moins que Heller propose 
autre chose. 1 

XXXV 

TO THE SAME 

Royal Hotel, Princes Street, Edimbourg : 

dimanche ('61 ?) 

Le concert d'liier a ete un grand succes et j'aurai GO/. 
pour ma part, ce qui vaut la peine ; il y avait un public 
vraiment admirable et toute 1'aristocratie de 40 milles 
dans la ronde y etait. La ducliesse etait bien fachee de ce 
que je ne puis aller a Dalkeitli, mais elle espere qu'une autre 
fois je pourrai m'arranger de maniere a y passer une 
semaine. 

Les X. avaient invite une vingtaine de personnes pour 
la soiree, de sorte que j'ai du jouer un peu malgre ma 
fatigue et avaler une douzaine de ballades ecossaises. II y 
avait une Mrs.' - - qui m'a fait passer le plus terrible 
quart d'heure dont je me souvienne de longtemps ; figures- 
toi une assez vieille femme, fort extraordinaire dans sa mise, 
avec une voix de basse comme celle de Former, qui se tient 

1 [Translation] 

Paris: August 19, I860. 

Hotel du Louvre. 

... I also met at Baden Mme. Miolan and her husband, and 
Wieniawski with his wife ; moreover, I assisted at the rehearsal of a 
grand concert, which Berlioz conducted, where he rehearsed a great part 
of ' Orpheus,' which interested me keenly ; I again learned many effects 
that I did not know before. Poor Berlioz, however, gave me the greatest 
pain ; I never saw a man so changed, and, but for a miracle, he will surely 
be in his grave before this time next year. He knows it himself, and 
speaks of it with a sadness that pierces one's heart. He was so pleased to 
see me and to be able to open his heart in talking of music ; he told me 
he had not felt so well for a long time as during those two days. . . . 

I am now goicg to hunt for Heller, I hope he is in Paris ; this evening 
I intend to go and hear ' Fra Diavolo ' at the Opera Coniique, unless Heller 
has something else to propose. 

s 2 



200 LETTERS 

debout, seule, au milieu du salon et, sans aucun accompagne- 
ment, cliante, sur des melodies improvisees avec toute espece 
de vieux trilles et hoquets, quelques-uns des poemes de son 
frere, et pas des plus courts. II m'a pris une telle peur 
d'eclater de rire que vraiment j'en etais presque malade. 1 

XXXVI 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris: 5 dec. 1861. 

Mon cher Halle, Ta lettre m'a fait un tres grand plaisir : 
je devrais dire, une joie. D'abord j'obtiendrai ce que j'ai 
desire, et puis c'est a ton amitie et a tes demarches que je 
dois cette realisation. Merci, cher ami, bieii sincerement 
d'avoir use de ta position et de ton influence en faveur de ton 
vieux camarade. Ce que tu me dis de la solidarite de la 
maison Chappell me tranquillise. . . . Tu rne connais assez 
pour savoir que je ne suis pas homme a regarder au gain. 
Xeanmoins je dois te dire, que ce n'est pas pour moi que je 
desire gagner un peu de ce vil metal si necessaire. Depuis 
plusieurs annees je suis aussi oblige de soutenir plusieurs 
membres de nia famille, qui ont tout perdu. Mais, avec mes 
compositions, surtout si jeparviens a etre un peu mieux retri- 
buo (comnie c'est deja le cas en Angleterre, grace a toi) a 

1 [Translation"] 

Royal Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh : 

Sunday ('Gl ?). 

Yesterday s concert was a great success, and I shall have (JOZ for my 
si are, which makes it worth while ; the public was truly admirable, and 
all the aristocracy for forty miles around was there. The duchess was 
very sorry that I could not go to Dalkeith, but she hopes that another 
time I can arrange to spend a week there. 

The X.'s had invited about a score of people for the evening, so that I 
had to play a little, in spite of my fatigue, and to swallow a dozen Scotch 

ballads. There was a Mrs. , who made me spend one of the most 

terrible quarters of an hour that I can remember for a long time ; imagine 
an oldish woman, very extraordinary in attire, with a bass voice like that 
of Formes, who stands up. alone, in the middle of the room and, without 
;,iiy accompaniment, sings to improvised melodies with all sorts of old- 
fashioned shakes and hiccoughs, several of her brother's poems, and by no 
means the shortest of them. I was seized with such a fear of bursting 
into laughter that it nearly made me ill. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1861 261 

Paris, et a avoir quelques eleves bien payans, je pourrais m'en 
tirer. Je ne suis arrive a un bon resultat qu'en Allemagne, 
ou les editeurs de tous les pays desirent avoir de mes ouvrages. 
Si j'avais ici un artiste de ta force, j'y serais arrive egalement. 
Mais c'est toujours 1'ancienne histoire. Je corapte 3 cate- 
gories de musiciens et amateurs, sous ce rapport : la l re me 
joue bien ; c'est une categorie peu nombreuse ; la 2 ude me 
joue mal ; elle est bien plus nombreuse ; la 3" ie ne me joue 
pas du tout ; celle-ci est de bien loin la pins nombreuse. Oui, 
il y en a qui jouent bien quelques-uns de mes morceaux ; 
quelques professeurs, quelques petites filles, qui jouent sur- 
tout tres vite ; quelques amateurs, qui aiment Chopin, 
Schumann, Mendelssohn, qui me font I'honneur de me 
laisser suivre ces maitres. Mais tout cela n'est pas anime, 
ni assez simple, ni assez riclie, ou simple ou il faudrait etre 
riche et riclie ou il faudrait etre simple ; sentimental ou il 
faut etrechaud et affectueux ; puissant an lieu d'etre aimable ; 
pesant aux endroits legers, et vice versa. Tu es reste mon 
ideal de piauiste, parce que tu n'exageres rien. C'est la qu'on 
reconnatt les maitres clans tous les arts. Tu ne seras jamais 
emphatique (chose horrible dans toutes les manifestations de 
Tart), boursoufle, larmoyant, affecto ; car tu ne veux ni faire 
pleurer les roches, ni dompterles animaux feroces, nisoulever 
les montagnes ; tu as le sentiment vrai, voila tout dire. Moi, 
je reunis tout en ceci. Les grands ecrivains, les grands 
peintres ont eu le sentiment vrai, ni plus ni moins. L'artiste 
qui va au-dela, comme celui qui reste en deca manque egale- 
ment son but. J'ai en horreur les pianistes modernes tout en 
reconnaissant leurs grandes qualites. Mais ces qualites, a quoi 
reviennent-elles ? En verite je ne les ai pas entendu jouer la 
plus facile des sonates de Beethoven de maniere a me con- 
tenter, de maniere a me donner 1'idee de I'auteur. Le grand 
Rubinstein a joue chez moi plusieurs ' Waldstiicke ' (en mi 
entre autres). Quel style ! quelles exagerations des endroits 
moins saillants, et quelle negligence dans les passages plus 
importants ! On sentait 1'ennui de ses doigts agiles et puissants 
qui n'avaient rien a mettre sous les dents, a peu pres comme 



2G2 LETTERS 

lorsqu'on donne a 1'elephant du cirque une simple saladieTe a 
engloutir. II a joue a Saint-Petersbourg ma Tarantelle en la 
betnol, enjolivee de traits d'octaves, de trilles, etc. etc. Si 
ces gens Fosaient, ils en feraieiit de meme avec Beethoven. 

S. HELLER. 1 

1 [Translation'] 

Paris : December 5, 1861. 

My dear Tlnlld, Your letter gave me very great pleasure I might say, 
joy. First of all I shall obtain what I desired, and then it is to your 
friendship and to your exertions that I shall owe this realisation of my 
wishes. I thank you, dear friend, very sincerely for having made use of 
your position and of your influence in favour of your old comrade. What 
you tell me of the solidity of the house of Chappell tranquillises me. . . . You 
know me well enougli to be assured that I am not a man who looks for gain. 
Nevertheless, I ought to tell you that it is not for myself that I desire to 
earn a little of that vile metal that is so necessary. For several years I 
have had to support several members of my family who had lost their all. 
But, with my compositions, especially if I succeed in getting better remu- 
neration in Paris (as, thanks to you, is already the case in England), and 
with some pupils who would pay me vvell, I cou'd manage. I have obtained 
a good result only in Germany, where the publishers of all parts wish to 
have my works. If I had an artist of your quality here I should have done 
equally well. But it is always the same old story. I divide artists and 
amateurs into three categories on this head. The first play my things 
well this is but a small category ; the second play them badly and are 
far more numerous; the third do not play them at all, and are the most 
numerous of all. Yes, there are a few who play some of my pieces well. 
A few professors, a few little girls, who play very fast above all things, and 
a few amateurs, who like Chopin, Schumann, Mendelssohn, and who do 
me the honour to let me follow these masters. But all these are not very 
animated, nor simple enough, nor ornate enough, or they are simple where 
they ought to be ornate, and ornate where they ought to be simple ; senti- 
mental where they should be warm and tender; powerful instead of amiable, 
heavy in light passages, and rice verm. You have remained my ideal of 
a pianist, for you never exaggerate. That is where one recognises the 
master in every art. You are never emphatic (a horrid thing in any 
manifestation of art), bombastic, whimpering, affected ; for you neither 
wish to make rocks weep, nor to tame wild beasts, nor to move mountains ; 
you have true sentiment, and that is everything. I sum up everything in 
that. The great writers, the great painters had true sentiment, nothing 
more and nothing less. The artist who goes beyond, and he who stops short 
of it have equally missed their aim. I hold modern pianists in horror 
while recognising their great qualities. But these qualities, what do they 
amount to ? Of a truth, I have not heard them play the easiest of Beet- 
hoven's sonatas in a manner to content me, to give me the composer's 
meaning. The great Rubinstein played several ' Waldstiicke ' at my 
house (the one in E among others). What a style 1 What exaggeration of 



TO A MANCHESTER PAPER, 1862 263 

XXXVII 

[Letter to a Mancliester Paper'] 

February 13, 1862. 

The remarks of your musical critic on yesterday's concert 
must lead your readers to believe that the introduction of 
' Cadenzas ' into Mozart's concertos is optional with the per- 
former. I feel sure you will allow me to remove such an 
impression, and to inform the writer of the paragraph as well 
as your readers that in all concertos by Mozart, in five out of 
the six written by Beethoven, and in almost every other 
instance (Mendelssohn excepted), ' Cadenzas,' the place for 
which is distinctly marked and prepared for in a peculiar 
manner known to all musicians, cannot be dispensed with 
without destroying the symmetry of the work, or involving 
its mutilation. It is hardly necessary to explain that the 
object of these ' Cadenzas ' is to recapitulate the principal 
ideas contained in the movement, at the conclusion of which 
they are introduced ; to condense them, present them in a 
new form, and, in short, to give a resume of the whole work. 
That this has perhaps in no instance on record been done in 
a more masterly manner than by Mr. Stephen Heller yester- 
day, all musicians at the concert will readily acknowledge. 

Far from being an ' intrusion,' or a violation of ' the 
principle which demands respect for the creations of genius, 
the composition of ' Cadenzas ' is therefore in strict accordance 
with the intentions of our greatest composers, and has 
always been regarded as one of the severest tests of the 
musician's faculties. 

Thanking you for the space you have kindly allowed me, 
I remain, yours very obediently, CHARLES HALLE. 



the less salient parts, and what negligence in the more important 
passages ! One felt the boredom of those agile and powerful fingers that 
had nothing put into them, as when they give the circus elephant an 
empty salad-bowl to swallow. He played my Tarantelle in A flat at St. 
Petersburg, ornamented with octave passages, shakes, &c., &c. If such 
people only dared they would do the same to Beethoven. 

STEPHEN HELLEB. 



264 LETTERS 

XXXVIII 

TO HIS WIFE 

6 Arlington Street, London : 

dimanche, 13 avril '62. 

Jamais le voyage de Manchester a Londres ne m'a 
semble plus court qu'hier ; Heller et Joachim etaient gais 
comme des pinsons et nous nous sommes bien amuses. En 
arrivant j'ai installe Heller dans ses appartements, qui lui 
plaisent ; ensuite j'ai donne deux lecons, j'ai retrouve Heller 
et Joachim a diner au Wellington, et le soir j'ai eu ma soiree 
pay ante chezMr. Cook, ou j'ai jouequatre sonates de Beethoven 
pour dix personnes, de sorte que je suis rentre assez 
fatigue. . . . 

Heller vient d'arriver et desire ecrire quelques mots sur 
la 4 me page ; je finis done. . . . Ton CHARLES. 

Chere Madame, Carl me laisse cette page, pour vous 
ecrire un mot. Je voudrais vous remercier encore de toutes 
les amities dont vous m'avez entoure pendant mon sejour a 
Manchester. Des mots, je n'en veux pas dire, mais vous 
savez que je sens vivement, et que je n'ai jamais connu de 
plus vive joie que de pouvoir etre reconnaissant et affectueux. 
Je vous ai voue ces sentiments-la, et je les garderai toujours. 
Vous savez deja que nous sommes arrives sains et saufs. 
Maintenant j'attendrai mon sort dans cette belle et affreuse 
ville. 

Je voudrais deja vous y voir, pour la trouver plus habi- 
table. Je vous prie de dire mes amities a Mile M., L., a C. 
et a toute cette charmante marmaille dont vous etes 1'excel- 
lente et digne gardienne. Que Dieu vous garde, c'est mon 
vceu le plus sincere. Votre devoue 

STEPHEN HELLER.' 

[Translation] 

6 Arlington Street, London : 

Sunday, April 13, 1862. 

. . . The journey from Manchester to London never seemed shorter to 
me than it did yesterday. Heller and Joachim were as merry as larks, 
and we amused ourselves greatly. On arriving, I established Heller in his 



TO HIS WIFE, 1862 265 



XXXIX 

TO THE SAME 

6 Arlington Street : 

21 avril '62. 

Je comprends tes inquietudes sur la Nouvelle-Orleans, 
mais il ne faut pas les exagerer ; le Nord n'y est pas encore ; 
et corame la ville meme ne saurait guere se defendre, n'etant 
pas fortifiee, il n'y aura certes pas d'exces, ce sera une simple 
occupation ; de plus il n'estpas probable que ceux qui peuvent 
s'en aller resteront a attendre les evenements. Broadwood 
est en Ecosse jusqu'a satnedi, de sorte qu'il ne petit pas me 
donner des nouvelles. . . . 

Nous avons passe une charmante soiree chez les Sartoris 
avec Millais et Browning; Heller a bcaucoup joue et tres 
bien. . . - 1 

rooms, which please him ; then I gave two lessons, and rejoined Heller and 
Joachim at the Wellington for dinner. In the evening 1 had a paid private 
concert at Mr. Cook's, where I played four of Beethoven's sonatas to ten 
people, so that I came home rather tired. . . . 

Heller has just come in and desires to write a few words on the fourth 
page ; so I must end. . . . 

Your CHARLES. 

Dear Madame, Carl leaves me this page to write you a word. I 
should like to thank you again for all the marks of friendship you bestowed 
on me during my stay in Manchester. I am not a man of many words, 
but you know that I feel keenly, and that I have never known a greater 
joy than that of being grateful and affectionate. Those feelings I have 
consecrated to you, and they shall be yours always. You already know 
that we arrived safe and sound. Now I shall await my fate in this beauti- 
ful and frightful town. 

I wish you were already here, to make it a little more habitable. I beg 
you to give my compliments to Miss M., to L., C., and to all that charming 
brood of which you are the excellent and worthy guardian. That God 
may have you in His keeping is my sincerest wish. 

Your devoted STEPHEN HELLER. 

[Translation] 

6 Arlington Street : 

April 21, '62. 

I understand your anxiety with respect to New Orleans, but you must 
not exaggerate it ; the North has not arrived there yet, and as the town 
could hardly defend itself, not being fortified, there would certainly be no 
excesses, it would be a simple occupation ; moreover, it is not probable 



266 LETTERS 

XL 

TO THE SAME 

6 Arlington Street : 

27 avril 1862. 

Ne manques pas de me dire par quel train vous allez 
arriver, et si c'est decidement jeudi ou vendredi, car pour 
venir te chercher il faudra peut-etre que je change quelques 
lepons, ce dont il me faut naturellement prevenir mes eleves 
la veille. Cependant je n'en ai presque pas jeudi, a cause de 
1'exposition ; je suis uii peu tente moi-meme d'acheter im 
billet de trois guinees pour pouvoir y aller ; je pourrais tout 
de meme etre au chemin de fer a temps ; je voudrais voir 
aussi ce qu'on fera pour Costa ; il a tenu bon et ne conduit 
pas la musique de Bennett qui est devolue a Sainton, qui a 
consenti de la diriger ; cela commence a faire un brouhaha 
epouvantable, le ' Daily Telegraph ' a eu un < leading article ' 
centre Costa d'une violence extreme, disant qu'il est temps de 
lui prouver que 1'Angleterre peut se passer de lui ; le ' Daily 
News ' en a fait de meme, niais moms rudement, et il n'y a 
pas de doute que les autres journaux ne 1'epargneront guere ; 
reste a savoir comment le public se comportera. Meyerbeer 
est arrive, mais je ne 1'ai pas vu encore. 

Heller et moi nous jouerons le concerto de Mozart au 
Crystal Palace samedi prochain, on nousoffre les memes ' terms' 
que la Societe de Londres ; Heller est enchante, d'autant plus 
qu'il a vendu hier une nouvelle edition de ses etudes pour 20 
livres, sur lesquelles il ne pouvait guere compter ; il se sent 
done en fonds, et regarde Londres d'un tout autre ceil. Pour 
moi, cela me fera quatre concerts dans la semaine. . . . 

Chorley veut reellement donner un ' fancy ball ' le mardi de 
la semaine du Handel Festival, et j'ai du lui promettre de vous 
en prevenir des le lendemain, ce que j'ai fait. Je crois qu'il 



that those who can get away will stay there to await events. Broadwood 
is in Scotland until Saturday, so he can give me no news. 

We spent a charming evening at the Sartoris's with Millais and 
Browning ; Heller played a great deal and very well 



TO HIS WIFE, 1862 267 

est fou, car figures-toi tmbal dans ses appartements, 1 et si on 
ne danse pas, figures-toi nous tous assis tranquillement a cote 
les uns des autres dans toutes sortes de costumes ; je lui ai 
dit que j'irais en ' Christy minstrel ' Chorley lui-meme sera 
en Apollon, naturellement. 

J'ai recu hier au soir une invitation des Prinsep a diner 
aujourd'hui ; je crois que cette fois je dois y aller, a cause de 
Charlie et de Watts ; le temps est superbe, et le jardin sera 
agreable sans doute. Je dois d'abord faire toute espece de 
repetitions surtout avec Heller chez Broadwood ; il a fait un 
nouveau poiut d'orgue pour le concerto de Mozart, que nous 
n'avons pas encore essaye, et nous avons deinain la repetition 
avec 1'orchestre. 2 

1 Chorley's house, 13 Eaton Place, West, was exceedingly small. 

[Translation] 

April 27, 1862. 

Do not forget to tell me by what train you will arrive, and If you have 
decided upon Thursday or Friday, as in order to meet you at the station I 
may perhaps have to change some lessons, of which I must warn my pupils 
the day before. I have hardly any, however, for Thursday, on account of 
the Exhibition ; I am rather tempted to buy a 3-guinea ticket myself 
to be able to go there ; I could anyhow be at the station in time. I should 
also like to see what will happen to Costa ; he has held his ground, and 
will not conduct Bennett's music, which has devolved upon Sainton, who 
has consented to conduct it. This is beginning to cause a tremendous 
uproar ; the Daily Telegraph had a leading article of extreme violence 
against Costa, saying that it was time to show him that England could do 
without him ; the Daily Nervs took the same line, though less roughly, 
and there is no doubt that the other papers will not spare him ; it remains 
to be seen what attitude the public will take up. Meyerbeer has arrived, 
bat I have not yet seen him. 

Heller and I are to play the concerto by Mozart at the Crystal Palace 
next Saturday ; they offer us the same terms as the London Society. 
Heller is enchanted, all the more so that he sold a new edition of his 
' Studies ' yesterday for 201., which he had hardly expected ; he feels him- 
self in funds, and looks upon London with quite another eye. As to me, 
that will make four concerts in the week 

Chorley really means to give a fancy ball on the Tuesday of the 
Handel Festival week, and I had to promise to let you know at once, 
which I have done. I think he is mad, for just imagine a ball in his 
rooms, and if there is no dancing, imagine us all quietly seated side by 
side in all sorts of different costumes ; I told him I should go as a ' Christy 
Minstrel ' Chorley himself will appear as Apollo, naturally. I received an 
invitation last evening from the Trinseps to dine with them to-day ; I 



268 LETTERS 



XLI 

TO THE SAME 

6 Arlington Street : 29 avril '62. 

J'ai emmene Heller cliez les Prinsep hier ; il n'y avait per- 
sonne que Doyle, et aucune dame que Mrs. Prinsep ; la maison 
meme n'est pas encore arrangee. Le temps etait superbe, et 
jamais je n'ai vu un homme plus charme que Heller ne 1'etait 
de Watts, de Doyle, des Prinsep, du jardin, et de tout 
enfin. 

Watts veut voir tout ce que Charlie a jamais fait, aussi- 
tot qu'il sera ici, et m'a promis de me dormer alors ses meil- 
leurs conseils sur les maitres qu'il faut lui donner. Apporte 
done tons ses dessins, meme si cela donne beaucoup d'em- 
barras ; c'est trop important. Watts appro uve beaucoup qu'il 
s'est tant occupe d'anatomie cet hiver ; c'est vraiment 1'homme 
dans lequel, comme artiste, j'ai le plus de confiance, et je suis 
bien heureux qu'il montre tant d'interet pour Charlie. 1 

think I ought to go this time on account of Charlie and Watts ; the 
weather is splendid, and the garden will doubtless be very agreeable. I 
have first every kind of rehearsal, especially one with Heller at Broad- 
wood's ; he has composed a new cadenza for the Mozart concerto, which 
we have not yet tried, and we have the orchestral rehearsal to-morrow. 

[Translation'] 

6 Arlington Street, 

April 29, 1862. 

I took Heller to the Prinseps yesterday ; there was no other guest but 
Doyle, and Mrs. Prinsep was the only lady. The house itself is not yet in 
order. The weather was splendid, and I never saw a man more charmed 
than was Heller with Watts, with Doyle, with the Prinseps, with the garden 
and with everything. 

Watts wishes to see everything that Charlie has ever done, as soon as 
he comes to town, and he promised that he would then give me the best 
advice he could as to the masters we must give the boy. Therefore, bring 
all his drawings, even if it gives a great deal of trouble ; it is very import- 
ant. Watts highly approves of his having studied anatomy so much this 
winter. Watts is certainly the man in whom, as an artist, I feel the 
greatest confidence, and I am very happy that he takes so much interest 
in Charlie. 



FROM ERNST, 1862 269 



XLII 

FROM ERNST 



Nice: May 21, 1862. 

Dear Friend, I have just finished a letter to Chorley in 
which I begged him to tell you that I would write to you in 
a few days. But ' je prends mon courage a deux mains,' in 
spite of fatigue and excitement, and do so at once, for I will 
no longer delay to tell you how glad I am that you have 
joined the friends who are venturing upon my enterprise. 
You must feel a certain satisfaction in contributing to the 
success of a project in which, a few years ago, you took the 
initiative. Let me thank you to-day (which I hope Roth 
has already done for me), and at the same time assure you 
that my joy at your participation would have been complete 
had your kind offer been sent to me by yourself ; although on 
the former occasion I thought it right for different reasons 
not to accept it. It is now five years since misfortune over- 
took me, and much has changed since then. In compliance 
with our friend Chorley's wish, I have already sent you my 
quartet by post ; I hope it is now in your hands, if not, kindly 
claim it at Chappell's in New Bond Street. Notwithstanding 
the other hopes attached to it, I can assure you that the 
appreciation, if only in part, of my work by the public would 
fulfil the innermost wish of my artist's heart, and be the 
greatest satisfaction the efforts of my career could obtain. 

Under your direction, and with artists so great as those 
London can offer, I am certain of the most perfect interpreta- 
tion, and, in the event of ill-success, my disillusion would 
be all the bitterer. 

I have no special remarks to make. I hope you will be 
able to read the score; it is very unequally written out, 
according to the greater or lesser degree of my suffering. To 
your judgment and insight I leave it, whether the scherzo is 
to follow the first movement or the andante (as it is written) ; 
eince I sent it off the thought has occurred to me to let it 



270 LETTERS 

follow the first movement, as it would serve to make the con- 
trast greater between the allegro moderate and the andante. 

But one thing more pay special attention to the part in 
the last movement commencing with poco apocopiii lento, and 
continuing to the poco a poco accell. e crescendo. I should like 
it to be played almost rubato and with great abandon. The 
whole of the last movement with the greatest possible swing. 

I cannot tell you, my dear Halle, with what impatience 
I am expecting a letter from you. In our youth art brought 
us together. After five years' separation and almost entire 
cessation of our former so intimate intercourse, she again 
stretches out her hand to unite us once more. May you seize 
it as eagerly as I ! Write to me soon. With real joy I shall 
hear of all that concerns you and your family. Do not be 
chary of news, tell me of all our mutual friends, and of the 
present state of art in London. 

Your old and true friend, 

ERNST. 

A thousand greetings to all yours, and the same from my 
wife. 

XLIII 

FROM THE SAME 
(Translated from the German} 

Nice: June 13, 1862. 

Dear Friend, The good news contained in your kind 
letter gave me all the more pleasure that it arrived at a 
moment when the ill-luck, that has followed me so long, had 
just dealt me another blow. Can you believe it, that yester- 
day morning, between four and five o'clock (almost the only 
hour during which I slept, and indeed I had had a light burn- 
ing until then) we were robbed, in the very room in which 
we slept. The value of the articles stolen is at least 1,000 frs., 
and besides their material worth they were precious as remem- 
brances. Among them a large watch, which, together with 
its wooden stand, was taken from under my very nose, from 
the table beside my bed. The whole day we had commis- 



FROM ERNST, 1862 271 

saires de police, juge d 'instruction, procvreur imperial, com- 
mandant des gens d'armes, and gens d'armes in. the house, to 
search the premises and take our depositions. Up to the 
present, the wooden watchstand has been found on the ground 
iloor, but has led to nothing further. It has been such a 
curious robbery that it gives rise to all sorts of conjectures 
and solves none of them. All this has excited and distressed 
me so much that I have spent a terrible night, and this 
morning early I received your letter ; you can imagine how 
welcome it was. A thousand thanks for it, and a thousand 
thanks to you all for your sympathy. 

I accept with great gratitude the offer for my quartet, so 
delicately put. . . . With regard to the time of publication, 
it would be advantageous to me if it could be deferred until 
late autumn, as some musical friends in Vienna propose to 
organise a performance of it, for which the summer season is 
not suitable, and it would lessen the interest of the public if 
the work was already printed and at every one's disposal. 

The kind offer of a concert at which my quartet shall be 
played, and the form it is to take pleases me greatly, and it 
is a matter of course that Chappell's shall have the right to 
perform it afterwards as often as they like. The good God 
grant that its reception may be such as to make them wish 
to exercise the right frequently . . . And now let me tell 
you that what you say of the impression my composition 
made upon you on reading it through, greatly pleased me, 
and I shall be enchanted if you think as well of it after 
having heard it. Write to me, I earnestly beg of you, as 
soon as ever you are able to tell me your opinion. 

Need I assure you that the two names Joachim and 
Piatti delighted my artist's heart, and that the thought of the 
first public performance of my work being in such hands 
filled me with the liveliest hopes ? 

Thank them for the care they are going to bestow upon 
me, which you have already promised in their mme. In 
your next letter I should like to hear what artists you have 
chosen for the second violin and viola. 



272 LETTEES 

My health, I am sorry to say, is no better, and only the 
importance and interest of the circumstance enabled me to 
overcome the agitation of spirit, and the pain in my fingers 
and arms which long writing produces. The day before 
yesterday I took my first sea-bath, but could not continue 
them. 

I close my letter with repeated thanks to my friends, 
particularly Chorley and Chappell ; the latter' s letter I have 
received and shall write to him soon. Hearty greetings to 
your dear wife and children, from myself and my wife. 

Your old friend, ERNST. 

XLIV 

FROM THE SAME 
(Translated from the German') 

Nice : June 29, 18G2. 

Dear Friend, I am just at present in a series of very 
painful days, else I should have acknowledged sooner the 
receipt of the 100L, and not have let two days intervene 
before expressing my great joy at the success of the concert, 
and the gratitude and emotion that filled me at hearing of 
such a widespread expression of good-will and sympathy. 

Even to-day it is impossible for me to write at any length ; 
therefore I beg you, dear Halle, to be the interpreter of my 
most heartfelt thanks to all those (a commencer par vous) who, 
in one way or another, have proved their sympathy for me. 
As soon as I feel better, I hope to be able to write to each 
separately. The unprecedented composition of the quartet 
enchanted me. I beg you at the first opportunity to embrace 
them all four, and their instruments as well. That which 
my dear old friend, the great master Molique, 1 did for me, 
pleased me above all. 

I received letters from Lehmann, Chappell, and Joachim 
senior ; greet them all for me ; letters will follow, as soon as 
I am a bit better, to each in turn. The weather is so un- 
1 Molique played the second violin in the quartet. 



FROM H. F. CHORLEY, 1862 273 

usually bad here that since my first sea-bath, I have not been 
able to take another. No trace of the thieves ; appearances 
seemed to point to a maid-servant, but nothing could be 
proved. Lehmann sent me the Times ; many thanks. 

I can write no more. I greet you and yours a thousand 
times. Your old, faithful EENST. 

P.S. I am very, very ill, my dear friend. Forgive my 
brevity. You would oblige me much by sending me some of 
the papers that have notices of the concert. 

XLV 

FROM H. F. CHORLEY 

13, Eaton Place, W. 

Tuesday, August 19, 1862. 

My dear Halle, Thank you very much for all the trouble 
you have taken. Thank you more for your wUfulness (I had 
meant willingness) in offering me a great help. The specimens 
are very queer, but are full of humour, nothing in them that 
you could not play at first sight. 1 

I shall be back (D.V.) on the llth of October, and before 
my return I shall have the illustrations copied so that any 
one can read them. They are just now rather chaotic, as 
Sullivan played from a figured bass sometimes. I have a 
syllabub (bus) ready to send to Mr. Worthington, in case it is 
the habit of the institution to announce matters beforehand. 
This I hope to hear from him ere I go, which will net be till 
the 26th. 

I am glad you liked the Prologue. It was murderously 
ill-spoken. I should have sent it at once to the Manchester 
papers, only, as I planned going thither, I did not choose to 
put myself forward for to gophilantliropically, after the fashion 
of the holy * * ! Perhaps, however, they might like to have 
it, and, if you think so, I send you a copy. 

I am dead beat, having used up my last scraps of energy 

1 Mr. Chorley was about to give a lecture on music in Manchester in 
aid of the Cotton Famine Fund. 



274 LETTERS 

in making this opera-book for Sullivan. It is worth while, 
for what he has written is delicious, with a sort of ' perfume ' 
about it (I can get at no better word), which I have found in 
the fancies of no other English composer. So, good-bye till 
October 11, and thank you. Best regards all round, from 
ever yours truly, 

HENRY F. CHORLEY. 

XLVI 

TO HIS SON CHARLES 

Greenheys : September 28, 1862. 

My dear Charlie, Your first letter from ' foreign parts ' 
has duly arrived this morning, and gives us great pleasure, 
as it contains nothing but satisfactory news. I had only one 
fault to find with it, namely, that it was not dated, which, as 
your mamma is sure to keep all your letters most preciously 
(and if she did not I might, perhaps, have that weakness my- 
self), would render the chronological order most difficult to 
preserve if persevered in ; therefore you are herewith requested 
to put the proper day of the month in all future letters, and 
the next time you leave off writing, you might, perhaps, 
spell ' off ' with a double f, if Mrs. Appell supplies you with 
sufficient ink. There ! We arrived here all safe and sound 
at about a quarter to eleven on Friday evening, and found 
the house in excellent order; my room looks exceedingly 
well, and more comfortable than ever. We have all got over 
the fatigue now, but to-day there are great lamentations in 
the house, as none of the boxes sent off from Cowes on Thurs- 
day have arrived yet, thanks to M., who had the bright idea 
of omitting the direction, so that the supply of clean linen, 
&c., has run awfully short, and the two boys are sporting the 
maids' collars, without which they could not have gone to 
church. 

The fowls, chickens, and the dog are all quite well, and 
send compliments ; the dog is really very nice and no ' beast/ 
but had very nearly come to a premature end yesterday. He is 



TO HIS ELDEST SON, 1862 275 

so very lively that the boys thought they had better chain him 
np, so they got a cord, made a running nocse at one end and 
put the poor dog's neck in it ; of course, being so very lively, 
he soon strangled himself most effectually, got into ' agonies,' 
and began to foam at the mouth, upon which he was declared 
mad, and I was just considering if I might not shoot him 
with your peashooter, when Mrs. C.'s servant fortunately 
found out the cause of the poor animal's behaviour, and at 
once released him and us all from our anxiety. This is the 
only event I have to relate from here to-day. . . . 

Mamma is writing to you also, so that you will have enough 
to read to-day ; do not think that I am going to spoil you 
often as I do now, but be sure that I expect to be spoiled, 
and hope that you will write often and much. 

God bless you, my dear boy. With love from us all, 

Your loving father, 

CHARLES HALLE. 

XLVII 

TO THE SAME 

Greenheys : October 2, 18G2. 

My dear boy, Your mamma tells me this minute (a quar- 
ter of an hour before post time) that nobody has written to you 
to-day ; I hasten, therefore, to send you a few lines, as other- 
wise you would be without news until Monday, to say that 
we are all well. . . . 

You have got fairly into harness now ; try only to have 
your lessons not too far off from your house ; long distances 
won't be pleasant at all during the winter. 

What are you drawing now at the Museum ? please let 
me know, so that I may, in mind, see you at work. It appears 
that Chappell will want me at the end of this month already, 
so that I shall soon have a look at you and at your work, for 
you must take me to the Museum whenever I come. 

Your long letters make us all very happy ; continue to 
write as much as you can, you will prevent many ' agonies.' 

T 2 



276 LETTERS 

Yesterday evening the children gave me a party in the 
schoolroom, which I like so much. . . . 

Your affectionate father, 

CH. HALLE. 

XLVIII 

TO HIS WIFE 

Londres : 26 mars 1863. 

J'arrive a 1'instant (dix heures du soir) de Windsor et je 
vais te racoiiter ma journee avant de me coucher. J'y suis 
arrive a, deux heures ; Ruland avait fait preparer un excellent 
luncheon dans sa chambre, pendant lequel il me disait que 
nous irions ensuite faire un peu de rnusique en haut dans la 
salle de Rubens (ou il y avait deux pianos) et que peut-etre 
nous aurions la visite de la Princesse de Wales, qui savait 
depuis deux jours par Lady Augusta Bruce que je devais 
venir aujourd'hui. Un peu apres trois heures nous sommes 
montes et avons commence a jouer a quatre mains ; au bout 
d'une demi-heure un domestique est venu porter une petite 
lettre de Lady A. Bruce a Ruland, dans laquelle elle lui disait 
que les deputations du Lord Mayor, etc., etc. etaient arrivees 
si tard que cela mettait fin au projet de la Princesse de venir 
nous entendre. J'etais naturellement contrarie, mais cepen- 
dant content de ce que la Princesse s'etait occupee de moi. 
Apres un autre quart d'heure Lady Augusta Bruce est venue 
elle-meme, et s'est montree la gracieusete meme ; c'est une 
bien aimable dame, aimantla musique passionnement; j'ai du 
lui jouer une sonate de Schubert, une de Beethoven, et Dieu 
sait combien de petits morceaux de Bach, Mendelssohn, 
Heller, etc. Elle ne nous a quittes qu'a six heures passees, et 
alors nous sommes redescendus chez Ruland. A peine 
installes dans sa chambre, un domestique est venu avec 
1'agreable annonce : ' The Prince and Princess of Wales wish 
to see Mr. Halle.' Nous sommes montes alors en toute hate 
dans les appartements prives (Ruland pour me presenter), et 
pendant que nous attendions devant la porte que le domestique 
nous annonce, la Princesse Alice, avec le Prince Louis, qu'on 



TO HIS WIFE, 1863 277 

avait evidernment fait chercher aussi, nous ont passe pour 
entrer chez le Prince. La Princesse Alice s'est arretee et m'a 
serre les mains d'une maniere bien affectueuse, en me disant 
qu'il y avait si longtemps qu'elle ne m'avait vu. Un moment 
apres nous les avons suivi, et le Prince de Wales, apres 
m'avoir donne un shake-hand cordial, m'a presente a sa femme, 
de la beaute et de la grace de laquelle on ne peut se faire 
aucune idee par les photographies. II n'y avait la que le 
Prince et la Princesse de Wales, la Princesse Alice et le 
Prince Louis, Ruland et moi, et j'y suis reste jusqu'a sept 
heures et demie, tantot faisant de la musique, tantot causant de 
la maniere la plus familiere et la plusagreable detoute espece 
de sujets. Pendant la conversation le Prince de Wales m'a 
prie de lui acheter trois pianos, deux grands, les meilleurs 
qne je puisse trouver, pour sa maison, ' un pour en bas, et 
1'autre pour en haut,' comme il me disait. et le troisieme un 
petit en ' maple wood and green silk,' dont il veut faire 
cadeau a la Princesse Alice. Quand enfin on nous a conge- 
dies, il a rappele Ruland au moment ou je sortais de la porte, 
pour lui demander si je viendrais a Londres pendant quelque 
temps cette saison, et quand Ruland lui a dit que j'y etais 
deja et que j'y resterais il a repondu : ' Ah, j'en suis bien con- 
tent.' II me semble done evident que la Princesse me 
demandera de lui donner des lecons ou que le Prince a quel- 
ques intentions sur moi, car jamais il ne m'aurait demande de 
lui acheter trois pianos si cela devait en rester la, et la 
remarque a Ruland disait clairement qu'il aura besoin de moi. 
Ruland et Becker sont tous deux de la meme opinion et bien 
contents, je t'assure. Je suis plus avance que Becker main- 
tenant, car il n'a pas encore parle a la Princesse de Wales, 
taudis que j'ai ete assis a cote d'elle pendant une heure. La 
journee n'a done pas ete perdue ; puisse le recit to faire 
quelque plaisir. 1 

1 [Translation] 

London : March 2C, 1863. 

I have at this moment (10 p.m.) arrived from Windsor, and I will relate 
my adventures before going to bed. I arrived there at two o'clock ; Euland 
bad an excellent luncheon ready in his room, during which he told me that 



278 LETTERS 



XLIX 

TO THE SAME 

Darmstadt : mercredi matin, 

8 sept. 1863. 

Nous sommes toujours avec cebon Becker ; il avait telle- 
ment compte sur une longue visite qu'il a ete vraiment ira- 

we should go up to the Rubens room afterwards (where there are two 
pianos) to make a little music, and that we should perhaps receive a visit 
from the Princess of Wales, who had known for the last two days, through 
Lady Augusta Bruce, that I was expected to-day. A little after three 
o'clock we went upstairs and began to play duets. Presently a servant 
came in with a little note from Lady A. Bruce to Ruland, to tell him that 
the Lord Mayor's deputation, &c., &c., had arrived so late that they had put 
an end to the Princess's intention of coming to hear us. I was naturally 
a little disappointed, and yet pleased that the Princess had thought of 
me. After another quarter of an hour Lady Augusta Bruce came in and 
was graciousness itself ; she is a very amiable lady, passionately fond of 
music. I had to play a sonata of Schubert's, one of Beethoven's, and 
heaven knows how many little pieces by Bach, Mendelssohn, Heller, &c. 
She only left us at past six o'clock, and then we went back to Ruland's 
room. \Ye were hardly there when a servant came in with the agreeable 
message ; ' The Prince and Princess of Wales wish to see Mr. HalleV We 
went in all haste to the private apartments (Ruland to present me), and as 
we were waiting at the door to be announced, Princess Alice and Prince 
Louis, who had evidently also been sent for, passed us to go into the 
Prince's room. Princess Alice stopped and shook hands with me very 
affectionately, saying it was a very long time since she had last seen me. 
A moment later, we followed her in, and the Prince of Wales, after shaking 
hands cordially, presented me to his wife, of whose beauty and grace the 
photographs give no idea. There was no one present but the Prince and 
Princess of Wales, Princess Alice and Prince Louis, Ruland and I, and I 
stayed until half-past seven o'clock, either making music, or joining in 
familiar and most agreeable conversation upon all manner of subjects. 
The Prince of Wales asked me to buy him three pianos, two grands, the 
best that I could find, for his house, ' one for downstairs, and the other 
for upstairs,' as he said, and the third, a cottage piano in ' maple wood 
and green silk,' which he means to give to Princess Alice. When at last 
we were dismissed he called Ruland back, just as I was going out, to ask him 
if was going to London this season for any length of time,and when Ruland 
told him I was there already and meant to stay, he said : 'Ah, I am very 
glad.' It seems evident, therefore, that the Princess means to ask me to 
give her lessons, or that the Prince has some intentions concerning me, or 
he would never have asked rne to buy him three pianos. Ruland and 
Becker are of the same opinion, and greatly pleased, I assure you. I am 
further advanced than Becker, for he has not yet spoken to the Princess of 



TO HIS WIFE, 1863 279 

possible de le laisser deja, et la Princesse a, de son cote, rendu 
notre depart impossible jusqu'ici. Lundi matin, apres avoir 
expedie uia lettre, elle rn'a fait dire qu'elle reviendrait de 
Francfort a quatre heures et esperait me voir de suite a Kranich- 
stein, le chateau qu'elle habite pendant 1'ete, a une distance 
de deux milles a peu pres de Darmstadt. Nous y sommes alles, 
Becker, C., et moi, mais Becker devait retourner en ville et 
C. s'est fait promener dans le magnifique pare par notre fiacre 
pendant le temps de ma visite. La Princesse a ete on ne pent 
plus aimable et m'a garde jusqu'a pres de sept heures, elle a 
fait chercher son Baby pour me le montrer, nous avons fait 
beaucoup de musique ensemble ; le Prince Louis est venu nous 
ecouter en fumant son cigare dans le salon, et avant de la 
quitter elle m'a dit que comme le lendemain elle avait la visite 
de la Reine, elle comptait me voir mercredi (aujourd'hui) pen- 
dant d'autant plus de temps, et hier elle m'a fait dire d'etre 
chez elle a deux heures aujourd'hui. La Reine et la Princesse 
Helene sont venues hier avec elle en ville, pour voir son petit 
palais et celui qu'elle fait batir ; pour aller au premier elles 
passaient la maison de Becker, en voitures decouvertes ; C. et 
moi nous etions a une fenetre du rez-de-chaussee et toutes les 
trois nous ont envoye les saluts les plus aimables, la Reine se 
retournant plusieurs fois quand elles avaient passe deja. Elle 
a de suite dit a Becker, qui les attendait au palais, qu'elle 
m'avait vu ainsi que sa mere. 1 . . . 

Wales, whereas I have sat beside her for an hour. So my day was not 
wasted ; may this account of it give you pleasure. 

1 {Translation} 

Darmstadt : Wednesday morning, 

September 8, 1863. 

We are still with our good Becker ; he had so counted on a long visit 
that it was impossible to leave him sooner, and the Princess has also 
made our departure impossible until now, On Monday morning, after 
I had despatched my letter, she sent me word that she would come back 
from Frankfort at four o'clock, and hoped to see me afterwards at Kranich- 
stein, the castle she inhabits during the summer, about two miles from 
Darmstadt. Becker, C. and I went there together, but Becker had to go 
back to the town, and C. drove about the magnificent park during my 
visit. The Princess was most amiable and kept me till near seven o'clock. 
She sent for her baby, to show him to me. We made much music together ; 



280 LETTERS 



TO THE SAME 

Hagen : 13 septembre 1863. 

Hier matin, a dix lieures, nous somm.es arrives en bonne 
sante chez nia mere et nous 1'avons trouvee, Dieu merci, bien 
portante. . . . Tante Altgelt avec tante Koch n'ont pas 
tarde a venir nous voir. Tu peux te figurer leur joie en 
voyant C. Tante Altgelt est toujours la meme, elle n'a 
change en rien et est aussi active et forte qu'elle etait il y a 
vingt ans, et bonne, comme tu le sais ; c'est vraiment une femme 
merveilleuse. 

Apres diner j'ai fait avec C. une promenade, accom- 
pagne du fidele Cornelius, qui a engraisse d'une maniere 
prodigieuse ; nous sommes monies d'abord sur le Goldberg et 
C. a eto emerveille de la beaute de la vue, et du charme de ce 
cher et paisible Hagen ; puis nous sommes descendus, et je lui 
ai montre la maison et la chambre dans laquelle je suis ne, 
1'ecole dans laquelle j'ai ete eleve, 1'eglise dans laquelle j'ai 
fait ma premiere communion, la maison de notre bon pasteur 
Zimmermann, les differentes maisons que nous avons succes- 
sivement habitees, la maison de Cornelius et la chambre dans 
laquelle nos pauvres peres, Cornelius et moi, nous attendions 
tous les dimanches 1'heure de 1'eglise, la salle ou j'ai joue 
pour la premiere fois en public, et ensuite tous ces chers 
endroits ou nos jeux d'enfance se passaient, et que je porte 
tous dans mon cceur ; ou nous faisions, Cornelius et moi, nos 
Robinsonades, ou nous cherchions des papillons, ou nous 
herborisions lorsque la passion de la botanique nous avait 

Prince Louis came to listen, smoking his cigar in the drawing-room, and 
before I left she told me that as she expected a visit from the Queen next 
day, she would hope to see me again on Wednesday (to-day) for a longer 
time, and she sent me word yesterday to go to her at two o'clock to-day. 
The Queen and Princess Helena came with her to town yesterday, to see 
her little palace and the new one she is building. On their way to the 
former they passed before Becker's house, in an open carriage. C. and I 
were at a window on the ground floor, and they all three bowed to us most 
amiably, the Queen turning round several times after they had gone by. 
She immediately told Becker, who was awaiting them at the palace, that 
she had seen me, and his mother as well. . 



FROM SIR WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN 281 

pris, ou nous apprenions a connaitre les etoiles, ou nous 
revions ensemble tant de choses, dont si peu se sont realisees, 
et ou cette araitie d'enfance s'est formee qui ne pourra jamais 
finir. Ah, que ces souvenirs sont bons, et comme ils atten- 
drissent le cosur je sentirai longtemps 1'eJBet de cette visite 
nous le sentirons tous je n'ai eu qu'une pensee liier pendant 
tout ce pelerinage, pensee qui comprend tout, c'est que Dieu 
veuille que raes enfants puissent un jour, en pensaiit a leur 
pere, sentir ceque j'ai senti liier, et ce que j'eprouve toujours 
ici. Je ne puis rien ajouter a cela. 1 

LI 

FROM SIR "WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN 

[A great friend of both my parents was the venerable Sir 
William Fairbairn, the eminent engineer. He was a regular 

1 [Translation] 

Hagen, September 13, 1863. 

We arrived here, in good health, at ten o'clock yesterday morning at 
my mother's, and found her well, thank God . . . Aunt Altgelt, with Aunt 
Koch, did not delay to come and see us. You can picture their delight at 
seeing C. Aunt Altgelt is just the same, she has not changed in the least 
and is as strong and active as she was twenty years ago, and good as you 
know her to be; she is really a marvellous woman. After dinner I went 
for a walk with C., accompanied by the faithful Cornelius, who has grown 
prodigiously stout ; we first went up the Goldberg, and C. was delighted 
with the beauty of the view and with the charm of this dear, peaceful, 
Hagen ; then we came down, and I showed him the house and the room in 
which I was born, the school where I was educated, the church in which I 
made my first communion, the house of our good pastor, Zimmermann, the 
different houses in which we had successively lived, the house of Cornelius 
and the room in which our poor fathers, Cornelius and I, used on Sundays 
to await the hour of service, the room in which I first played in public, 
and then all the dear spots where we played our childish games, every one 
of which I carry in my heart ; where Cornelius and I played at Robinson 
Crusoe, where we caught butterflies, where we collected plants when the 
passion for botany had seized us, where we learnt to know the stars, where 
we dreamt of so many things, so few of which have come to pass, and 
where that friendship was formed which can never have an end. Ab, how 
good are these memories, and how they stir one's heart ! I shall long feel 
the effects of this visit we shall all feel them I had but one thought 
during all this pilgrimage, a thought that contains all things. ; it was that 
God might grant that one day my children, in thinking of their father, may 
feel as I felt yesterday, and as I always feel when I am here. I can add 
nothing to that. 



282 LETTERS 

attendant at my father's concerts, and it was always a pleasure 
to my mother when, from her box, she could see his beautiful 
snow-white head towering above his fellows, as he entered the 
Free Trade Hall accompanied by his gentle wife; greatly 
pleased was she, therefore, to receive the following charac- 
teristic letter from her old friend the morning after one of 
the great Thursday concerts.] 

Manchester : December 2, 1863. 
My dear Mme. Halle, There is an old saying that 

Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, 
To soften rocks. 

In that I agree so far as regards the former, but I never knew 
it make any impression upon the latter. One thing I how- 
ever know, and that is that Mr. Halle, in his intensity of 
thought and his love of the sublime in sound, is the very 
essence of harmony. In fact, he 

Floats upon sound, and rides upon its echo! 

Such were my feelings the other evening as I watched his 
motions. I perceived that every movement was in unison 
with a volume of sound, that appeared to descend from the 
heroic to die in strains of melody upon the ear. 

Music is certainly an exquisite art, and the liquid tones 
of the human voice, when in harmony with tuned instruments, 
become the more sensitive as they recede from the sonorous 
to the more subdued tones that affect the passions and touch 
the heart. Even old as I am, I felt all these sensations, as I 
allowed the music full and unrestricted scope during the 
time I watched the movements of our able and exquisite 
leader. On that occasion I gave full rein to my imagination, 
at least so far as to fancy that I perceived the very notes 
issue from his fingers, as he spread them abroad to the right 
and left of the performers. There is magic in that wand 
that he wields so tunefully, but there is more in the liquid 
tones, as he so cleverly diffuses them over the heads of his 



FROM SIR WILLIAM FAIRBAIRN 283 

audience with tlie art and power of a magician ! Like an 
old Scotch song : 

His very step has music in it, 

As he comes up the stairs ! 

So I think of the leader of Halle's Concerts ! 
Believe me, my dear Madam, 

Yours faithfully, 

W. FAIRBAIRN. 

[The life of Sir William Fairbairn has been written, and 
his achievements in his craft recorded, but the number of 
those who have a personal recollection of the simplicity and 
charm of this noble specimen of one of nature's truest gentle- 
men is getting smaller year by year. Nothing was more 
delightful than to hear him talk of his early days in Scotland, 
aud of his first arrival in Manchester as a young mechanic. 
He told me once that his golden rule, and his advice to all 
young men, had always been to ' work hard and spend little ' ; 
that when he first got work in England his wages were 
eighteen shillings a week, and he managed to live on sixteen 
shillings ; arid so he had gone on through all the struggles of 
his early life, always ' working hard and spending little.' 

His memory carried him back to the very first years of 
the century, and he remembered old customs of Scotland that 
lingered in the country-places, and had a strange flavour of 
antiquity and lawlessness about them. Once, when a little 
lad, he was driving cattle with his father, and stopped at a 
remote wayside inn for refreshment. The landlord poured 
out the drink, and ere he set the glass before each guest 
raised it to his own lips a relic of the courtesy that required 
the act as a proof that there was nothing harmful neither 
drug nor poison in the cup !] 



284 LETTERS 

LII 

FROM JOSEPH JOACHIM 

(Translated from tlie German'} 

October 12, 1864 ? 

Dear Halle, Only a hasty greeting before I leave Dublin. 
. . . Belfast, Hotel lloyal. Since writing this, my dearest 
friend, I have been through the whole South of Ireland, and 
am to-day, October 12, at Belfast, where we remain till Satur- 
day to give three concerts. Belletti has given me your 
scolding ! Had I been able to write as you wished, you would 
have had news of me long since, but to say ' No ' to your 
renewed amiable offer was more difficult. When one is bound 
by an engagement efforts are unavailing, and in spite of the 
call of friendship, one must stay under the yoke. I console 
myself with the belief that the time will come when I shall 
be freer. 

On my homeward journey I shall trust to see you, and to 
spend a day with you and yours, if it can possibly be 
managed, but I shall write of this from Dublin, where we 
return on the 22nd (after Ballymena and Londonderry). As 
to your proposal for March, I can say nothing so long before- 
hand. I must, before all, see how the winter at Hanover 
suits me, but I shall certainly let you hear from me from 
time to time during the winter, as I do not wish distance to 
make us strangers, or that our shake in the Kreutzer Sonata 
should chime together less precisely than before ! 

The wonderful scenery of Ireland and the delicious air 
have refreshed and strengthened me. I have seldom seen 
such rich beauties of nature ; it would have delighted you also. 
Jenny Lind's singing is unique. She is one ' by the 
grace of God,' and a charming travelling companion into the 
bargain. Pardon my hieroglyphics thanks to a bad steel 
pen. Certainly most difficult to decipher. 

Your faithful and obliged JOSEPH JOACHIM. 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1866 285 



LIII 

TO HIS WIFE 

Mansfield Street : dimanche, avril 1866. 

Tu as su par la lettre de Charlie hier, que mon portrait et 
celui de B. sont positivement recus a 1'Academie, ce qui me 
fait esperer que les autres le seront aussi, car la ' Beatrice ' est 
certainement encore mieux peinte ; voila done notre bon 
garpon devant le public et lance, et je ne doute pas de son 
succes ; que le bon Dieu le protege dans sa carriere je sens 
eomme si la mienne etaifc finie maintenant, car je ne prends 
plus d'interet, et je ne pense plus, qu'a son succ^s. 1 



LIV 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hagen : September 7, 1866. 

My dear Slave, And I am sadly afraid the appellation is 
but too true, and that my poor young thing has to work with 
brain and body like the blackest nigger that ever was, and I 
can only say in return that her old Pa is more grateful to her, 
especially for the ever cheerful way in which she does her 
work, than he can express. 

You will all be glad to hear that I found grandmamma, on 
the whole, better than I ventured to hope. She certainly is 
somewhat changed, looks a little thinner and older, but no- 
body would take her to be seventy. It seems that from the 
moment she knew I was coming she brightened up wonder- 
fully. I am therefore glad that I did come. They all say 

1 [Translation} 

Mansfield Street : Sunday, April, 1866. 

You know by Charlie's letter of yesterday that my portrait and B.'s are 
positively accepted at the Academy, which makes me hope that the others 
will also be taken, as the ' Beatrice' is certainly even better painted ; so 
now our dear boy is before the public and fairly launched, and I have no 
doubt of his success. May the good God protect him in his career. T feel 
as if mine had come to an end now, for I take interest solely in, and 
think only of his success. . . . 



286 LETTERS 

here that this short visit will help her safely through the 
winter. 

But now I had better relate all that has befallen me since 
I last wrote from London, for the little note from Calais con- 
tained very few words, and I do not even feel quite sure if 
you ever received it. On Tuesday evening the weather got 
so very bad in London, the rain falling in torrents and the 
wind blowing very hard, that I made up my mind not to 
cross that night, and preferred remaining in Mansfield Street 
and save the expense of the hotel at Dover, not, however, 
without having asked cook if she could undertake to call me 
at six o'clock, and have my breakfast ready at half-past six, as 
the train started at 7.25, both which she promised faithfully. 
In the morning when I awoke I thought there was rather too 
much daylight for six o'clock. I looked at my watch, and, to 
my horror, found that it wanted only eight minutes to seven. 
I jumped out of bed, I rang frantically and shouted ' Cook ! 
cook ! ' all over the house, and, after a while, heard a voice 
from the top of the house answering, ' Coming.' What could 
I do but dress in the most fearful hurry, without shaving, 
send her for a cab the moment she appeared, jump into it in 
a towering rage, jump into the train, which was just starting, 
reach Dover two hours later (the train stops at no stations), 
and find myself on board of the steamer, which even in port 
jumped up and down like mad, without having had a morsel 
to eat or even a drop of ivater to drink ? What do you say to 
that ? And what I most regret is that I had not time even 
to scold cook and Anne as they deserved, neither of whom 
spoke a syllable. 

The crossing was very rough, but as before getting under 
steam I had just time to eat a sandwich and drink a glass of 
brandy and water (the only drink they seemed to have), I 
felt more comfortable and kept well all the time, although we 
were more than two hours before reaching Calais. Louis 
Gassner 1 was on board, acting as courier to a newly-married 
young couple, who went to Switzerland on their wedding 
1 An old servant. 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1866 287 

tour. The young husband suffered fearfully and was a sight 
to behold, and as his young wife was quite well and could 
nurse him, he must have felt rather ashamed, I dare say. 
There was a whole school of young ladies on deck, about 
eighteen in number, under the guidance of a stout, merry- 
looking (at starting), old French schoolmistress. They were 
all laughing and joking before the vessel moved, but, poor 
things, how they dropped off one after the other, the mistress 
setting the example, before we were ten minutes on our way ; 
not one of them escaped, and they were lying about in all 
possible arid impossible positions, and were rolled about by 
the sailors like so many sacks. I borrowed a waterproof coat 
from a sailor, in spite of which I got wet through, for as it 
did not cover my head, and the waves came constantly down 
upon that unlucky member, they gradually soaked my collar, 
cravat, waistcoat, and, by degrees, I felt the wet creeping 
down lower and lower, whilst at the other extremity we stood 
always about ankle-deep in water. Fortunately, salt water 
does not hurt; otherwise, my luggage being registered to 
Cologne, and I therefore having to travel a whole day and 
night in this wet state, it might have been the worse for me ; 
as it is, I feel quite well and all right, but it was certainly 
not comfortable. 

It was about half-past five a.m. when I arrived at Cologne. 
I went to the Hotel du Nord, which is nearest to the station, 
and was not sorry to get my wet clothes off and to go to bed 
for a few hours. I left again at 11.20 for Hagen, after having 
sent a telegram to my good mother to announce my arrival, 
which telegram we are still anxiously awaiting. I hope it 
will come before I leave again. At the station I got into the 
midst of a regiment of ' Landwehr ' (militia), returning to 
their homes from the late war, and such a row I never heard 
before ; such singing, such shouting I believe I am half 
deaf still. They seemed to have been at the station, which 
was cram full, for a long time already, as they were in full 
song, and there, and afterwards in their carriages till Diissel- 
dorf, where I left them, they repeated incessantly the follow- 



288 LETTERS 

ing spirited and patriotic lines, singing them well, too, and 
with proper emphasis : 

Die Landwehr hat Huh, 
Die Landwehr hat Ruh ; 
Und wenn die Landwehr Ruhe hat, 
So hat die Landwehr Ruh ! 

(I append a literal translation for those that might miss 
the point otherwise),: 

The Landwehr has rest, 
The Landwehr has rest ; 
And when the Landwehr has rest, 
Then has the Landwehr rest ! 

Undeniable, and logic and patriotic sentiments equally 
sound. Who can wonder now that the Austrians have been 
beaten by a people capable of such efforts in poetry ? It 
took a long time to get those noisy warriors into their 
carriages, but then, when the platform was comparatively 
empty, there was one little incident which I shall not easily 
forget. Three poor peasant women, dressed in decent black, 
went slowly along the train, arm in arm, the middle one 
crying and seemingly supported by the two others, but all 
three with such sad faces, and looked once more into every 
carriage, as if they still hoped it might not be true, and they 
might discover their lost one, for whom they were already in 
mourning, in some corner. 

At Diisseldorf the regular troops were also expected to 
make their entry that day on their return, and the whole 
town seemed to be one huge flag and wreath ; every house 
was covered with all sorts of garlands, flowers, and flags, the 
Prussian one always at the top ; all the people were in the 
street, and altogether it was a most exciting scene. Between 
Diisseldorf and Hagen I passed a train which contained a 
regiment of cavalry with some guns, the engine and every 
waggon being also decorated with flags and wreaths, and 
such shouting from our train to theirs, and such answering ! 

This was the last incident worth relating ; at the station 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1866 289 

I found Clara, who had been since the day before at every 
train to look for me ; she brought me to my mother, and 
what our meeting was you can imagine without my telling 
you anything about it. 1 

The soldier Koch has not returned yet, but he has been 
made lieutenant on the battlefield, and as for harrowing 
details, I have got so many already that they will take me a 
good long time to tell you vivd voce. For to-day I think I 
have written enough, and will therefore end by telling you 
how happy I was to have such good accounts of you all. . . . 
Give my best love to all round, Canon Toole included, and 
kiss all the little ones for me. I continually pray, as dear 
mamma used to do, that God may keep you from all dangers, 
illness, and accidents ! Your loving father, 

CHARLES HALLE. 
LV 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hagen : Sunday morning, 

September 9, 1866. 

My dear L. . . . There is nothing talked of here but 
the war ; and it certainly is very interesting to see real 
accounts from the battlefield in the letters from the soldiers 
themselves ; harrowing details I have got in plenty ; enough 
to satisfy M., and I shall relate them faithfully on my return. 
I shall also bring a lot of local newspapers, in which many 
of the soldiers' letters I spoke of are printed. It is now 
proposed that to celebrate the peace, on a given night, a huge 
bonfire shall be lighted 011 the top of every mountain in all 
Prussia ; which would certainly be a fine sight if one were 
in a balloon ; they will soon set the whole world in a blaze. 

Soldiers pass through here every day, and people come 
miles and miles to see them for a second and shout them- 
selves hoarse. At Diisseldorf the other day an immense 
hotel near the station was really very fine to behold; you 
know what a lot of windows these hotels muster ; in this 

1 This \vas my father's first visit to Hagen after the death of my 
mother. 

U 



LETTERS 



case every window had a small balcony entirely covered with 
flowers and leaves, and in every corner of which there was 
a tiny Prussian flag, something like this : 





imagine more than a hundred windows like this, but you can 
have no idea how pretty it looked. 

I must tell you that from Diisseldorf to Elberfeld I helped 
an old, kind-looking lady into the same carriage with me ; 
soon after starting I saw her busy at work trying to open 
the window, which proved a very stiff one ; so I got up, 
crossed over to her side, and opened it for her, upon which 
she said : ' danke, danke, schonstens, es ist sehr warm,' and 
then struck by a sudden idea, and smiling most benignly, 
she repeated several times with great emphasis : ' mooch, 
mooch, mooch,' so, to please her, I answered ' very mooch,' 
and then our conversation dropped, the old lady being evi- 
dently much pleased with the display of her English. 

Hagen has wonderfully changed since we were here, new 
streets and new houses have sprung up on all sides ; there 
are many changes in the people too, and the number of my 
old friends keeps diminishing steadily ; soon there will be 
none left, and very sad it is. ... 

With best love to you all in general, and to your own 
little self in particular, I remain your affectionate father, 

CH. HALLE. 
LVI 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hagen: Monday, September 10, 1866. 

To-morrow I am going to take grandmamma and Aunt 
Anna, Aunt Altgelt, Aunt Koch, and Clara on an excursion 



TO A SON, 1866 291 

to Altena, the birthplace of my mamma, and which none of 
them have seen for twenty-nine years ; therefore as we start 
at half-past seven in the morning, and shall probably not be- 
back before seven in the evening, I write a few lines to-day, 
which, if I leave on Wednesday, will be the last you will 
receive from here at least. 

We go by train to-morrow, the distance being about 
twenty miles, and I cannot tell you how happy they all seem 
at the idea of seeing once more the place where they were so 
happy in their childhood. I hope the weather will be fine. 
To-day it is so-so ; not raining, but threatening. 

We spent the afternoon and evening yesterday at the 
Kochs, and very pleasant it was. I shall bring you some 
very fine old Dutch china, which has been in our family at 
least a hundred years, and is, I think, very valuable : a big 
milkpot, a coffeepot, a sugar-basin, tea-canister, three cups, 
but only one saucer. The packing will be the awkward 
thing, but I hope I shall bring it all safe. 

The soldier Koch is at Hanover now with his regiment, 
and is likely to be kept there for some months more. He 
wrote yesterday, and gives very bad accounts of the reception 
they have met with in Hanover ; the ladies turning their 
backs upon them when they meet them in the streets, and 
altogether they seem to be treated as enemies, and feel very 
uncomfortable, so it is not all quite serene. . . . 

Good-bye, my dear M. Sunday I shall be with you in 
any case. Is it not very strange that, although I am very 
happy to be with grandmamma, I should be so impatient to 
find myself again in the midst of my dear rascals ? A 
thousand greetings from all here, as usual. 

LVII 

TO ONE OF HIS SONS 

Springkell : September 20, 1866. 

My dear G. Cheer up, old boy ! The time will soon 

pass away, and Christmas will be there before you think of it. 

And now let me tell you that I am very glad indeed that 



292 LETTERS 

you write so frankly all you feel about the school. By all 
means continue to do so ; it makes me very comfortable ; 
although, of course, I am very sorry that you should both feel 
so unhappy, you are quite right to tell us all your likes and 
dislikes. . . . You are equally right in wishing to give it a 
fair trial, for sometimes first impressions are wrong and do 
not last, and suddenly to be thrown amongst entire strangers 
is never pleasant. I remember the doleful letters I wrote 
when I first was sent to Paris, and how some years later I 
thought I could live nowhere else. 

Ask B. to keep his temper for his dear mamma's and my 
own sake, and to be cheerful when tlie boys tease him. A 
good laugh will disarm them, and then they will soon leave 
him alone or be friends with him ; and among so many boys 
there must be a few nice ones, which undoubtedly you will 
soon find out. For the present devote all your energies 
to learning ; try to do that well, so that if you go back to 
the other school you may have gained upon the other boys. 

Now do as I have often done in similar cases, and think 
of stages by which you can see how quickly the time flies. 
The first stage may be our return to Manchester that will 
bring you nearer Christmas ; then comes my first concert, 
and so on. Never look to the most distant time, but always 
to one of these intermediate stages, and the time will seem 
much less long. . . . 

And now, iny dear boy, or rather my dear boys, I end as 
I began with Cheer up ! There are many hard things in this 
world which we must bear like men, but in your case it will 
only be for a very short time if it does not mend, and that 
ought to be a comfort. 

LVIII 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : IS oct. 1866, 

54 Rue N.-D. de Lorette. 

Mon cher Halle, . . . Je suis reste a Paris, Berlioz 
aussi ; le reste s'est envoi e a tire d'aile, qui en Suisse, qui 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1866 293 

aux bords de la mer. Berlioz est aussi bien souffrant, bien 
plus que moi. II est tout casse, use, et ue fait que geindre, 
le pauvre homme. A peine qu'on recommit 1'ancien Hector, 
si fringant, si batailleur, pourfendant ses adversaires, et 
quelquefois les ailes de moulin. 

Je termine, et t'envoie mes plus sinceres amities, qui ne 
se sont jamais affaiblies. Tel que j'ai ete, je suis et je serai 
toujours. Ton STEPHEN HELLER. 

Mes amities a tes enfans et a Henry Broadwood. 1 

LIX 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Osborne : December 28, 1866. 

1 will only report shortly the events of the day, as Sahl 
promises that you will receive this letter on Sunday morning ; 
there is no chance of your getting one to-morrow. I got to 
London at six in the morning, having slept a few hours in 
the railway carriage between Crewe and Rugby, and reached 
Cowes about a quarter past three, where I found the excellent 
Sahl at the landing place (East Cowes) waiting for me. He 
took me at once to Osborne, where I am still ; on the way 
we met the Queen driving with Princess Helena, who both 
bowed and smiled most graciously. At Osborne 1 found an 
excellent luncheon prepared for me in Sahl's room, saw 
Sir John Cowell who manages the household, and was 
informed by him that I was to have General Grey's apart- 
ments (not in the Palace, thank Heaven, but in the first 

[ Translation] 

Paris: October 18, I860, 

54 Rue N.-D. cle Lorette. 

My dear Halle, ... I have stayed behind in Paris, Berlioz also; the rest 
have taken wing, some for Switzerland, some for the seaside. Berlioz is very 
ill, far worse than 1 am. He is broken, used up, and does nothing but 
lament, poor man. One can hardly recognise the old Hector, so fiery, so 
warlike, cleaving his enemies, and sometimes charging at windmills. 

Thus I end, and send you the expression of a sincere friendship that 
has never faltered. What I have been, that I am, and shall ever be, your 

STEPHEN HELLEE. 
My remembrances to your children and to Henry Broadwood. 



294 LETTERS 

house near the big gate) ; everybody was very polite, and at 
five o'clock I received the message that the Queen wished to 
see me at half-past five. I had, therefore, to go to her 
just as I was, there being no time to go back to General 
Grey's house ; fortunately Sahl lent me a clean collar, mine 
being rather dirty from travelling. At half-past five I was 
ushered into a small boudoir, and after a minute the Queen, 
Princesses Helena, Louise, and Beatrice, and Prince Leopold 
came in, were also awfully kind and polite, made me play 
lots of things, and kept me till seven o'clock. The thing 
was extremely interesting and agreeable, but I shall tell you 
all about it on my return. Sohl had ordered dinner for us 
two in his room, in order to avoid dressing, but to-morrow I 
shall have to breakfast, &c., with the household. Between 
luncheon and the visit to the Queen Prince Leopold came to 
fetch me to his room, where we were as jolly as two larks. 
I must add that there was not a single attendant with the 
Royalties all the time I was with them, which made it all 
the more pleasant. What is going to happen to-morrow I 
do not know, except that breakfast is at half-past nine. 

LX 

TO (XS'E OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Osborne : December 29, 1866. 

My dear L. You have written me such a nice letter, 
which I received by the second post this evening, that I 
think it is only proper I should answer it as soon as possible, 
especially as you want so much news. I have given M. an 
account of yesterday, so I may go on with to-day's events. 
Between breakfast and luncheon, after I had written a few 
letters in order to substitute the ' Elijah' for 'Iphigenia' on the 
10th, Sahl and I went out for a walk as far as West Cowes, 
stepped on board the Queen's yacht for a few minutes, and 
had a look at the American yachts, which are rather ugly. 

We returned to Osborne just in time for luncheon ; the 
party at meals consists of the Duchess of Athole, Lady 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1866 295 

Caroline Barrington, Lady Susan Melville, Miss Cavendish, 
Sir Thomas Biddulph, Sir John Cowell, General Seymour, 
Baron v. Schroeter, Mr. Lake, Dr. Sahl, and myself; the 
eating is good, and the company very cheerful and not at all 
stiff, and, like well-bred people, they all make a point of 
being very polite to me. 

After luncheon, Sahl being busy, I went with Baron 
v. Schroeter (who has the little Prussian ' prince in charge) 
down to the shore in the grounds to have another look at 
the American yachts, which came there that the Queen 
might have a look at them, and to salute her. The Queen, 
with a large party, was also at the water's edge, but we, of 
course, kept aloof. At half-past four o'clock we turned in 
again, at five your letter came, and I had just opened the 
envelope when I was called to the Queen ; I saw her, with 
all her children, in the same room as j'esterday, and remained 
till about half-past six o'clock ; nothing could be pleasanter, 
except that I had rather too much to play. Once more in 
Sahl's room I took your letter out of my pocket to read it, 
when a message came from Princess Helena, or rather 
Princess Christian, as she is now called, if I would be kind 
enough to come and see her in her room. So off I trotted 
again, and after a little chat she asked if I would play a few 
duets with her, or if I was too tired ? Of course we set to 
work again, and it was five minutes to eight when she gave 
me leave to go ; there was just time to dress, and your letter 
had actually to wait till after dinner before I could at last 
read it. The Queen takes most kindly to music ; she has 
suggested many of the pieces I played, and now I am no 
longer anxious about the choice, but may play just what 
suits me. 

Altogether this is an extraordinary visit, but when shall 
I get away from here ? there is the rub ; the Queen speaks, 
and Princess Helena speaks as if I were going to stop here 
for ever, and as for little Prince Leopold, he has got such an 
affection for me, that he follows me about the house from 
1 The present German Emperor. 



296 LETTERS 

Sahl's room to Lake's room, and takes rue off to his own 
whenever he has a chance. The little Prussian is a lovely 
boy and very droll; we had a grand scene with him in the 
Queea's room this evening ; he came in just when I was 
about going away, and the Queen wanted him to make me a 
bow ; he was too shy and resisted, so she asked him what 
his mamma would say if she heard he was so impolite, but 
this had no effect ; she, however, insisted upon it, so at last 
he looked at her and said: 'No, I won't.' And then it 
became a hard struggle between them until he gave in, drew 
himself up, and made me a deep bow. It was a charming 
scene, the Princesses and Prince Leopold laughing most 
heartily. But I really must go to bed. I hope to-morrow 
to be able to say when I shall be back ; in the meantime a 
thousand kisses to all of you from your loving father, 

CH. HALLE. 

LXI 

TO HIS ELDEST DAUGHTER 

December 30, 1866. 

I have no idea if this will reach you to-morrow, but I 
hope so, that I may at least tell you before the end of the 
old year, that I shall begin the new one in spirit with you 
all, although for the first time I shall be away from you all, 
and not hear your dear voices wish me happiness. Arrange- 
ments have already been made for me to play again to the 
Queen in the afternoon and in the evening in the drawing- 
room, and I cannot upset them. On Tuesday, however, I 
shall be off and reach you most probably by the night mail, 
as I shall have something to do in London on account of all 
these concert changes. 

This day has of course been a quiet one ; there is no music 
going on here on Sundays, and I have only seen Prince 
Leopold of the Royal Family ; I do not know yet, however, 
what may happen in the evening. 

At three o'clock this afternoon the owners of the Ameri- 
can yachts came up to Osborne to be shown over the place. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1867 297 

One of them, Bennett, is a fine young man, a real giant ; the 
others are precious ugly. I do not think that they were 
received by the Queen, but I went out for a walk with Baron 
von Schroeter and Sahl, so do not know. I have not a bit of 
news to give you. but enclose the monogram of Princess 
Helena for the boys, the other side being at the same time an 
autograph. 

I hope you will make some punch, and good punch too, 
for all of you to-morrow evening, and kiss all the children, 
big and little, for me, and also that you will drink my health 
as I shall drink yours if I get a chance. 

LXII 

TO TEE SAME 

December 31, 1SGG. 

I am not to leave Osborne before Wednesday morning, 
the Queen wishing to see me again this afternoon at half-past 
live o'clock, to spend the evening with the Duchess of Athole 
and the other ladies (perhaps the Princesses), and to play to 
her, for the last time, to-morrow evening after dinner instead 
of this evening. 

So I cannot be at the rehearsal on Wednesday evening, 
and this makes me as busy as a bee, writing to D. and 
arranging matters. ... I shall now arrive on Wednesday 
night between two and three o'clock, and reserve all further 
news till then ; this is a visit which the Queen is sure not to 
forget, and it will keep me in her good graces for ever. 

LXIII 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 17 avril 1867, 

54 Rue N.-D. de Lorette. 

Mon cher Halle, Tu es dans une deplorable erreur si tu 
crois que je te dois une lettre. Non pas que cette dette, si 
elle existait, me couterait d'acquitter ; au contraire ; mais c'est 
qu'il y a difference du tout au tout : c'est toi qui depuis 
plusieurs mois me dois une lettre, que je t'ai ecrite vers la fin 



298 LETTERS 

de 1'an passe. J'y ai parle de mes dernieres publications, et 
j'ai exprime le desir d'en avoir ton opinion. 

J'ai recu la visite de 1'etonnant animal que tu m'as 
recomrnande. 1 II a gambade sur un seul pied, il abaragouine 
avec lui seul dans une langue, qui m'a donne la certitude que 
les differents sons et cris des animaux representent des mots, 
qu'ils comprennent entre eux. Lorsque cette incomprehen- 
sible creature se metfcait tout a coup a jouer la sonate en ut 
diese mineur, j'avais 1'impression comme si je me trouvais 
devant le Palais des singes du Jardin des Plantes, et que je 
voyais tout a coup un de ces horribles habitants descendre 
d'un barreau, auquel il etait suspendu par la queue, et se 
mettre a un piano pour y jouer du Beethoven. 

J'ai aussi eprouve sa memoire. II a patauge, et meme il 
a mis du sien, de faron a me faire croire qu'il sait plus qu'il 
n'en a 1'air, mais il avait en effet assez retenu pour me sur- 
prendre. II est evident qu'il y a la une aptitude extraordi- 
naire. Mais, aprestout, je ne puis, avec la meilleure volonte, 
m'y interesser beaucoup. Je ne sais si je me trompe, mais je 
crains que son cornac le maltraite et joue le tuteur tendre 
devant le monde. C'est un chef de saltimbanques, beaucoup 
moms gai que Bilboquet, qui me donne sur les nerfs. 
Trouves-tu ces gambades, et tout ce manege d'idiot, de possede, 
naturel? Depuis Barnum j'ai une extreme defiance contre 
les merveilles americaines. Ce qui est sur c'est la faculte 
musicale de ce malheureux. Avec toute ta lettre je ne sais 
rien de particulier sur toi. Tu es devenu tellement occupe et 
affaire qu'on ne parvient plus jusqu'a toi. Cependant ce 
n'est pas mon interet qui t'a jamais manque. II est vif et 
sincere. 

Quant a moi, je ne me ferais pas prier pourecrire souvent 
et longuement, mais les encouragements m'ont manque. II 
est vrai que je n'ai rien que du temps (' er hat nichts als Zeit '), 
comme dit Jean Paul dans les ' Flugeljahre,' et que toi, tu 
as toutes sortes de choses, excepte du temps. 

1 A half-witted negro youth, known as ' Blind Tom,' possessed of re- 
markable musical gifts. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1867 299 

Je t'excuse et j'en gerais. 

Adieu ; portes-toi bien, dis mes amities a ta famille et 
crois a 1'inalterable amitie de ton vieux 

STEPHEN HELLER. 1 



1 [Translation] 

Paris : April 17, 1867, 

54 Rue N.-D. de Lorette. 

My dear Halle, You are making a deplorable error if you think that I 
owe you a letter. Not that the debt, if it existed, would cost me anything 
to pay; on the contrary; but the truth of the matter is that you owe me 
the answer to a letter I wrote you towards the end of last year. I spoke 
in it of my last publications and expressed the wish to hare your opinion 
of them. 

I have had a visit from the extraordinary animal you sent me. He 
gambolled on one leg, he talked to himself in a jargon, that made me 
feel certain that the various sounds and cries of the lower animals repre- 
sent words, which they understand among themselves. When this incom- 
prehensible creature suddenly began to play the sonata in C sharp minor, 
I had an impression as if, when in front of the monkey-house at the Jardin 
des Plantes, I had seen one of its horrid inhabitants suddenly descend 
from the bar where he had been swinging by his tail, and sit down to a 
piano to play Beethoven. 

I also tried his memory. He floundered, and even put in something of 
his own, in such a way as to lead me to think that he knows more than 
he seems to do, but still he had remembered enough to surprise me. It is 
evident that his aptitude is extraordinary. But, after all, with the best 
good-will, I cannot interest myself much in him. I do not know if I am 
mistaken, but I am afraid that his keeper ill-treats him and plays the 
tender guardian before company. He seems a master-acrobat, far less 
cheerful than Bilboquet, and acts upon my nerves. Do you believe those 
gambols, all that idiot and demoniac business to be natural? Ever since 
Barnum I have had an extreme distrust of these American marvels. One 
thing is certain, the poor wretch's musical faculty. After reading all your 
letter I know very little about youiself. You have become so busy and so 
much occupied that one can no longer get at you. It is not my interest 
in you that has ever failed. It is lively and sincere. 

As for me, I should have needed no entreaties to write often and at 
length, but I met with no encouragement. It is true that I have nothing 
but time (er hat nichts als Zeit), as Jean Paul says in his ' Fliigeljahre,' 
and you, you have all sorts of things, except time. 

I excuse you and I suffer from it. 

Adieu, keep well, remember me to your family and believe in the un- 
alterable friendship of your old STEPHEN HELLER. 



300 LETTERS 

LXIV 

FROM ROBERT BROWSING 

19 Warwick Crescent, 
Upper Westbourne Terrace, W. : May 14, 1867. 

My clear Halle, All thanks for your invitation, which I 
shall profit by if I possibly can. 

I want to explain to you why in all probability I shall be 
away from your music ! for once ; it is foolish, I know. My 
son goes to college at Michaelmas and has to work so hard in 
order to matriculate at Balliol, where he wants to go, that he 
cannot spare even one morning a week, and I have got so 
used to have him with me that I can't bear sitting alone. 
Next year, if all goes well with us both, I shall assuredly do 
the nearly one thing I thoroughly enjoy now. Ever yours 
truly, ROBERT BROWNING. 

LXV 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris: 3 decembre 1874. 

Mon cher Halle, Ta lettre m'a fait bien plaisir, et tu m'as 
rendu un signale service en me mettant en relations avec un 
editeur honnete homme, rara avis. . . . 

La Senate de Wagner est idiote. On est d'autant plus 
etonne de la transformation immense de cet homme. Quand 
peut-il avoir ecrit cette epicerie ? On dirait qu'il n'avait alors 
connu, je ne dirais pas Beethoven, mais pas meme une sonate 
de Hummel, Dussek, voire meme Kalkbrenner, qui a donne 
de jolis specimens dans ce genre. Ce dernier au moins con- 
naissait son piano. 

Quand on sort d'une belle representation d'un opera, ou 
d'une execution parfaite d'une symphonie, on aime a s'en 
rememorer le plaisir, en parcourant la partition au piano. 
C'est ainsi que j'ai fait apres t'avoir entendu jouer la Nocturne 
et la Barcarolle de Chopin. Je n'avais pas juge ces deux 
ouvrages a lenr valeur. Je les avais entendu rarement, et 

1 My faih3r's Pianoforte Recitals at St. James's Hall. 



FROM STEPHEN IIELLEE, 1874 301 

incompletement, et je n'ai pas ete tente cle les lire moi-meme, 
(3tant effraye des difficulty's qu'elles presentent. 

Ton execution veritablement incomparable a completement 
modifie nion opinion. Interpretes de cette facon on reconnait 
leur grand merite, leur grande valeur ; ils sont dignes de 
Chopin. C'est pour la centieme fois que je me snis desole 
snr les conditions desastreuses des ceuvres de musique. 

Elles restent a 1'etat de lettre morte, si elles ne trouvent 
un grand artiste de bonne volonte qui se charge de les faire 
comprendre et aimer. 

Le peintre n'a pas besoin d'interprete. Un cadre et de la 
luiniere lui suffisent. 

D'apres ta lettre tu es en ce moment par monts et par 
vaux. Ne travaille pas trop, ne deviens pas trop riche et 
tache de donner de temps a temps a ton meilleur ami un 
dimanche comme le dernier a Paris. Ton vieux 

STEPHEN HELLER. 1 

1 [Translation] 

Paris : December 3, 1874. 

My dear Halle, Your letter pave me great pleasure, and you have 
rendered me a signal service by introducing me to an honest publisher 
rara avis. . . . 

Wagner's sonata is idiotic. One is all the more astonished at the 
immense transformation of the man. When can he have written this 
sample of grocery ? One would say that when he wrote it he did not 
know, I will not say Beethoven, but even one sonata of Hummel's, 
Dussek's, or even Kalkbrenner's, who has given us some pretty specimens 
in this style. The latter, at any rate, knew the piano. 

When one comes away from a fine performance of an opera, or the 
perfect execution of a symphony, one likes to recall the pleasure by going 
through the score on the piano. This I did after hearing you play Chopin's 
' Nocturne ' and ' Barcarolle.' I had never judged these two works accord- 
ing to their value. I had rarely heard them, and incompletely, and I 
had never been tempted to read them myself, being frightened by the 
difficulties they present. Your truly incomparable execution entirely 
modified my opinion. So interpreted, one recognises their great merit, 
their great value ; they are worthy of Chopin. For the hundredth time 
I lamented over the disastrous position of works of music. They remain a 
dead-letter unless they can find a great artist of good-will, who takes upon 
himself the task of making them understood and liked. 

The painter has no need of an interpreter. A frame and daylight 
are sufficient for him. 

According to your letter you must be at this moment among valleys and 



302 LETTERS 

LXVI 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hagcn : September 3, 1879. 

. . . Charlie is indeed very lucky and I quite envy him, 
but the time to the beginning of October seems very short, 
and probably he will not be able to spare a day for Munich, 
but it might be useful to him, as I don't think he knows any- 
thing about the present German painters. If he goes I 
recommend him to look at one, ' Christ in the Temple ' (the 
smaller one of two pictures of the same subject in the German 
part of the exhibition). He will thank me for having drawn 
his attention to it, for he will seldom in his life have enjoyed 
such a good laugh. 

We had the Sedan anniversary yesterday, and I had to go 
to a supper at the ' Concordia ' and to sit upon the same chair 
from half-past eight until half-past one o'clock a somewhat 
dreary performance. 

What has been the result of the Grosvenor exhibition 
this season ? Has it been satisfactory ? 

LXVII 

TO THE SAME 

Copenhagen, Hotel d'Angleterre : April 8, 1880. 

Dearest M. Here I am ; the day before yesterday I read, 
to my surprise, that the Princess of Wales was also on her 
way to Copenhagen, and I am very glad to be here just at 
the same time. To-day is the King's birthday, and the 
whole town in a state of uproar ; I am to go to the palace 
to-morrow morning, and to play there at a matinee either on 
Sunday or Monday. 

The town seems very fine, but the country from Korsor 
here is very ugly. I shall see Gade this afternoon, which 
will be a great pleasure. 

mountains. Do not work too hard, do not become too rich, and try, from 
time to time, to give your best friend another Sunday like the last in 
Paris. Your old STEPHEN HELLEB. 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1880 303 

At Hanover, I spent a most agreeable day with Hans von 
Billow, who was charming, and I had a great success into 
the bargain. In the evening he, Billow, gave a sapper 
which must have cost him a year's salary (he is now in the 
service of the Duke of Meiningen). 

LXVIII 

TO THE SAME 

Copenhagen: April 12. 

1 have been twice with the Queen and Princess, and 
yesterday afternoon played for two hours for them and the 
King ; they are the most simple and pleasant people I have 
met with for a long time ; the Princess, of course, being 
delighted with the joke of seeing me hand her letter to the 
Queen in her presence. 

Gade also is most amiable ; I see him daily, he trots me 
about, and to-day I am dining with him. On Thursday I 
shall be in Hageu, and I think I shall go from there to 
Louviers, unless I get letters which show me that I must 
get back to London at once. My love to everybody. 

LXIX 

TO THE SAME 

Vienna : October 9, 1880. 

Dearest M. I cannot remember having ever spent more 
interesting days than these last few ones. Brahms is the 
most delightful and good-natured creature imaginable, and 
what a musician ! He knows everything, has everything in 
his library, and seems quite happy when he can talk about 
musical curiosities, or about works and certain points in 
works, which must interest every musician. We have dined 
together every day at the coffee house (' Der Igel ') where 
Beethoven used to dine, spent a few hours afterwards in 
talk, met again in the evening and remained together till 
midnight. 

Then I have made the acquaintance of Pohl, the author 



304 LETTERS 

of a most remarkable biography of Haydn, and keeper of 
the musical archives here ; he is a charming, warm-hearted 
man, and has shown me all his treasures, autographs without 
number, and such interesting ones! MS. scores of Beethoven's, 
Mozart's, Haydn's, Bach's Symphonies, Concertos, unpub- 
lished works even ; it would have been worth my while 
to remain months in those rooms. 

Nottebohm is another remarkable man and writer on 
musical matters, who is in possession of the most curious 
MS. sketches of Beethoven's sonatas, which have helped me 
to decide several doubtful passages in some of them, about 
which I have often quarrelled with Billow and others. 
Richter, Helmesberger, Briill, Hanslick, and many others, 
are all delightful people, and I feel very sorry that go I must 
on Monday. The weather is delightful into the bargain. 

LXX 

TO HIS DAUGHTERS 

Leipzig, Hotel Hauffe : October 14, 1880. 

Dearest M. and N. You have both been very good and 
written to me, very amusing letters too, although the sky- 
light adventure must have been far from amusing to you. I 
hope all is right again by this time, and that umbrellas are 
no longer necessary indoors. 

My stay in Vienna has been wonderfully interesting ; 
Brahms has taken to me like a duck to the water (of which 
I feel not a little proud) ; he hardly ever left me, and on 
Monday afternoon even went to the station a very long way 
indeed to see me off. I shall have a deal to tell when I am 
once back in London. 

I left Vienna on Monday at 2.10 P.M., and arrived here 
on Tuesday morning shortly after seven. Yesterday mornino- 
at nine o'clock I had the rehearsal, which went off very well, 
and to-night at half-past six is the concert, which I wish 
was over already. I play a Beethoven Concerto and several 
small pieces by Chopin ; at the rehearsal the audience (there 
is rather a large one at the rehearsals here) was very perlite 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1881 305 

to me ; nevertheless, I am a little nervous just now. The 
band, I am happy to say, is not quite equal to our Manchester 
band ; that is a fact. 

Yesterday evening I saw the celebrated ' Meiningen ' 
actors in Shakespeare's ' Winter's Tale ' ; they certainly 
play wonderfully well without having any really great actors ; 
it is the perfection of ' ensemble,' and very striking. 

To-morrow, early, I am off for Dresden, where I play on 
Saturday evening, quite alone, with only a few songs. On 
Sunday evening I shall be at Hagen, where I must remain a 
few days, and I shall reach London on Thursday evening 
next, or perhaps on Friday, to go off to Manchester on 
Saturday, the first concert taking place on Monday, the 25th. 

Good-bye, dear girls, and give my love to the boys. 

LXXI 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

66 Elbenfelden Street, Hagen : 

March 19, 1881. 

Dearest M. If by chance any one of you said yesterday, 
between one and two o'clock, ' Now the Dad is in Mopsa's l 
arms,' that one was much mistaken, for at that time don't 
be alarmed, for there was nobody hurt I was contemplating 
the wreck of our train between Verviers and Bleyberg, and 
a more perfect smash I never saw : the engine lying on its 
back, all the carriages off the line, some of them shattered, 
the rails being driven through the luggage vans and looking 
out at the top, and the line itself, from straight as it had 
been, twisted, with all the sleepers, into a curve for more 
than a hundred yards. Well, there is much to be grateful 
for, for not a soul had even a scratch, and I cannot say that 
I was alarmed for a moment; all the bumping over the 
sleepers and it was severe left me perfectly cool. I can- 
not say as much of some of the other passengers nor of the 
guards. A few looked like ghosts. We had then to be sent 

1 A favourite little dog of my grandmother's. 



306 LETTERS 

back to Verviers by a train coming from the opposite side, 
and later on we were despatched over the wrong line, and 
altogether I reached Hagen at half-past six o'clock instead 
of one. I was thankful for having been alone, without one 
of you, or else I might not have remained so cool. 

Here I have not even mentioned the matter, as Granny 
might feel upset. I am happy to say that I found her as well 
as I could possibly wish. Anna, Bertha, and Mopsa are 
equally flourishing, the latter young lady rather inclined to 
get somewhat stout. 

LXXII 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Vienna : Hotel Imperial, 

April 2, 1881. 

Dearest M. So I have at last played in Vienna, and 
may say that I have every reason to be pleased. I played 
Beethoven's Concerto in E flat and three pieces by Chopin, 
and after each performance I was recalled five times to the 
platform. People are very complimentary, and if we were 
not so near Easter I might certainly play again ; as it is, I 
may be sure to be welcomed another time. At Prague, three 
days ago, I was even recalled seven times as a rule, and had 
a great mind to take a chair and sit down on the platform 
for greater convenience. Here the calls do not mean an 
' encore,' they are merely complimentary. 

What has Gladstone been doing to Dizzy ? I have not 
seen much of the papers. 

LXXIII 

TO THE SAME 

Greenheys: October 23, 1881. 

My dear M. The Huddersfield Festival was really a 
great success, and the people most enthusiastic. ' Faust ' never 
went so well yet. Lloyd certainly sang better than ever, 
and so did Miss Davies ; Santley was splendid too, although 
a little fatigued at first. . . . 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1882 307 

I send you two Huddersfield and one Bradford papers, 
which will tell you the whole story. How things grow ! 1 
cannot help thinking now often of the evening when I asked 
you if you could not help me by translating ' Faust,' and now 
people have actually come from Ireland to Huddersfield merely 
to hear it. I have seen them with my own eyes. They bad 
been ruefully sea-sick, and said they would not mind b^ing 
so again the next day if they could hear ' Faust ' once more. 

LXXIV 

TO THE SAME 

Hagen: April 10, 1882. 

Dearest M. I also have nothing to report, except that 
the weather is splendid, although the nights are very cold, 
that we are all well, and that the ' Easter Fires ' yesterday- 
evening were extremely fine. 

To-morrow being my birthday, I am sure you will all 
think of me. It is getting rather serious, but, thank God ! 
I feel as capable and as fresh for hard work now as in my 
youngest days. 

May it last so a little longer ! 

LXXV 

TO THE SAME 

April 1 1 , 1882. 

Dearest Mats, You have been the spokeswoman for the 
others, so I must thank you for all the good wishes you have 
sent me. This is the first birthday I have spent in Hagen since 
the year eighteen hundred and thirty-six ! and indeed I feel ' 1 
know not how,' as Margaret sings in ' Faust.' I have received 
all manner of small presents and lots of flowers, but the first 
thing I saw when coming out of my bedroom this morning- 
was Mopsa, standing on her hind legs, with a big sugar heart 
dangling from her neck on a beautiful pink ribbon. It is a 
grand day for her. . . . 

I was sorry to hear of Henri Lehmann's death. One 
more old friend gone ! 

x 2 



308 LETTERS 

April 12, 1882. 

My birthday has passed without any serious effects upon 
my health, and I hope now to stand the next few days man- 
fully also. The weather is finer than ever almost too good 
to last until Sunday. 

LXXVI 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

11 Mansfield Street: August 29, 1882. 

. . . Yesterday I went to Birmingham to hear a rehearsal 
of Gounod's ' Redemption ' not a very beautiful work and 
came back in the evening to have an interview to-day with 
Grove. I had found a letter here from him informing me 
that the Prince of Wales offered me the professorship of the 
first pianoforte class in the Royal College, and I had to show 
him by my engagement-books how impossible it was for me 
to accept. He understood at once, and was sorry. They 
mean to open next year. 

I return to Birmingham this evening, in time for the 
concert, at which a new work by Benedict ' Graziella ' is 
to be given. It seems that he fainted the other day at a 
rehearsal, in spite of which he insists upon conducting it 
himself. 

Gounod was very nice and kissed me, a la franpaise, which 
1 thought unnecessary. Gade is there also, and it is alto- 
gether an interesting meeting. Poor Costa looks awful, but 
gets through his work in spite of his illness ; there is 
indomitable pluck in the old fellow. 

LXXVII 

TO THE SAME 

August 31, 1882. 

Since I wrote last I have been to Birmingham and heard 
the first performance of Gounod's ' Redemption.' My first 
impression was more than confirmed ; it is a dull work and 
monotonous in the extreme. . . . 

Yesterday evening I came on to Preston, where every- 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1882 309 

thing is in confusion, the Duke of Albany being too ill to 
make his promised visit. 

LXXVIII 

TO THE SAME 

Bull and Royal Hotel, Preston : l 
September 7, 1882. 

Dearest M., Two of your letters the last from Cortina 
and the first from Pieve have reached me here together. I 
was most happy to read your description of your excursions 
to Caprile and Agordo, and could not help reading the whole 
letter to Straus. It must have been delightful. 

I cannot say as much for Preston, although the weather 
has become fine since yesterday. First of all, I have caught 
a horrid cold, and, secondly, I have to deal with a committee 
that makes many mistakes in the management, and none of 
us derive any pleasure from the concerts. Just imagine that 
the performance of ' Elijah ' was announced to commence at 
half-past eight o'clock certainly an unreasonably late hour 
but the doors could not be opened to the public before a 
quarter past nine, because the hall was not ready ! You can 
fancy the row that was going on. We began the performance 
at 9.30, whilst the people were streaming in, and, of course, 
for a long time not a note could be heard, much to our dis- 
gust. We had not finished until past midnight, in spite of 
having made no interval. 

Yesterday's concert began at the equally stupid hour of 
4.30 o'clock, and we ended in perfect darkness, no arrange- 
ments having been made for lighting the gas. The crowds 
of roughs, through which we have to fight our way to and 
from the concerts, always on foot, are most unsavoury. The 
processions seem remarkably stupid. So, altogether, I am 
not in the best of tempers. However, it comes to an end to- 
morrow afternoon, and perhaps Straus and I may often have 
a good laugh together over the whole affair. 

Another thing : rehearsals are quite out of the question, 
1 On the occasion of the Preston Guild Festival. 



310 LETTERS 

as there is no room and no time for them, so that nothing 
goes as it ought to do. 

I suppose by now you are in Venice, and I need hardly 
say that I should be only too happy to come to you, but up 
to the present I hardly know what to say about it. I shall 
certainly not be able to leave London before the 12th or 
13th, so much I see, and I have an absolute craving for some 
good music. I may say that it is a necessity for me to hear 
some good performances before beginning my work again, 
otherwise I might become a ' ganache,' like so many others. 
So I meant to give myself a week or ten days of running in 
search of what may be interesting at Munich or Vienna, 
according to the repertoire ; then, before coming back to 
England, I must spend a little more time at Hagen. Still, 
I hope that between the two I may find a week to spend with 
you, about which I shall write later. 

LXXIX 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hagen : July 22, 1884. 

I am still here. Yesterday evening, when my luggage 
had already been taken to the station, I felt that I could not 
tear myself away, and sent B. to fetch my bag back. 

I shall never be able to give anybody an idea of what I 
feel here, of the immense longing for the past and for so 
many dear faces, all at rest. Not to speak of poor dear 
granny, I can stand before the house of Cornelius, vainly 
trying to persuade myself that I shall never see him again. 
I really think sometimes that I should feel happy if I could 
live here altogether, so you may imagine if I find it hard to 
go away. 

LXXX 

TO THE SAME 

Bayreuth: July 26, 1884. 

' Parsifal,' yesterday, made a very deep impression upon 
me, much more so than before, and I shall see it again to- 
morrow with very great interest. After all, one has no idea 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 311 

in England of such a performance, and one ought to come 
here every year to learn what can be done every detail is so 
perfect. The musical pleasure is not paramount, but there 
are very fine and powerful effects in it, and it is interesting 
throughout, and much less crude than ' Siegfried ' and 

o ; < - J 

' Tristan und Isolde.' 

I have not seen Liszt yet and begin to doubt if I shall see 
him ; the fact is, I don't like his entourage. 



LXXXI 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 4 mars 1885. 

Mon cher Halle, Depuis trois mois et demi j'attends la 
' longue causerie ' dont tu m'as parle dans ta derniere lettre. 
Dis-moi de tes nouvelles. Si les esperances dont tu me 
parlais ne peuvent se realiser, dis-le avec courage. J'ai tou- 
jours 1'espoir que je pourrais un peu travailler. J'ai passe 
deux mois a faire une petite mazurka, et encore avec 1'aide 
d'un musicien qui rectifiait mes notes. Le Docteur Wecker 
parle encore de ' quelque temps.' Oh Dieu ! je n'y crois 
guere. Voila dix-huit mois que je suis soumis a un traite- 
ment incessant. Je m'y rends tous les jours. Je me dis si 
dans six mois il n'y a pas un mieux sensible, il faut aban- 
donner tout espoir. . . . Je m'ennuie, cela c'est certain. Je 
ne puis lire mes chers livres, qui m'ont console de tant de 
peines. Je ne puis parcourir mes cheres partitions de Sym- 
phonies et de Quatuors qui m'ont fait passer des heures 
ravissantes. Je ne puis lire les journaux, ni les lettres d'une 
ecriture fine. Cela fait que 1'ennui me fait dormir quel- 
ques heures durant le jour. Cependant il y a pour certaines 
choses un peu d'amelioration. Je distingue mieux les traits 
d'une physionomie inconnue ; les aiguilles d'une pendule, si 
elle n'est pas loin de mes yeux toutes choses que je n'ai pu 
faire il y a six mois. 

Si tu fais un voyage pendant les vacances, tache done de 



312 LETTERS 

passer quelques jours a Paris avec moi. Je voudrais savoir 
quelque chose de ta vie, de tes concerts, voyages, etc. 
Adieu, mon ami. Ecris-rnoi. 

ST. HELLER.' 

LXXXII 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 13 mars 1885. 

Cher Halle, . . . Mes yeux vont un pen mieux helas ! 
Lien peu. Ce que j'ecris est devant moi, pale, efface, voile. 
Mais je ne suis point aveugle, et Dieu veuille an moins me 
laisser ce que j'ai. Quand je peiise aux malheureux que je 
vois chez le Docteur, je dois rendre grace a Dieu. Oh ! mon 
ami, si peu fortune qu'on soit, il y a toujours une plus grande 
infortune, qui vous est epargnee. Tout est relatif. Fon- 
tenelle, age de quatre-vingt-dix-huit ans, ne pouvant ramasser 

1 [Translation] 

Paris : March 4, 1885. 

My dear Halle", For three months and a half I have been waiting for 
the ' long talk ' of which you spoke in your last letter. Give me news of 
yourself. If the hopes of which you spoke cannot be realised, say so with 
courage. I still have the hope of being able to work a little. 2 I spent two 
months over a short mazurka, even with the help of a musician to rectify 
my notes. Doctor Wecker still speaks of ' some time.' Oh, God ! I hardly 
believe in it. For eighteen months I have undergone an incessant treatment. 
I go to him every day. I tell myself that if in six months there is not a 
material improvement, I must give up all hope. ... I feel dull so much 
is certain. I cannot read my beloved books, which have consoled me in so 
many troubles. I cannot go through my beloved scores of the symphonies 
and quartets, that have made me spend many a charming hour. I cannot 
read the papers, nor my letters if the writing is small. So weariness makes 
me sleep several hours during the day. Nevertheless there is a slight 
amelioration on one or two points. I can distinguish the features of an 
unknown face better ; I can see the hands of a clock if it is not too far 
from my eyes things that I could not do six months ago. 

If you come abroad during the holidays, do try to spend a few days in 
Paris with me. I should like to know something of your life, of your 
concerts, travels, &c. 

Adieu, my friend. Write to me. 

STEPHEN HELLER. 
2 Heller was losing his sight. 



TO GEOEG LICHTENSTEIN, 1885 313 

un eventail qu'une belle interlocutrice avait laisse tomber, 
s'ecria : ' Oh ! que je regrette mes quatre-vingts ans ! ' Si je 
devenais aveugJe, que je regretterais rnes yeux d'aujour- 
d'hui ! Adieu, ami ; au revoir. 

ST. HELLER. 1 

LXXXIII 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Grand Hotel, Paris : 

April 17, 1885. 

It does not do to see old friends again, and my visit to 
X. has made me sad. If I am as much changed in mind and 
body as he, I ought to be locked up. 

Heller looks very old too, but is fresh in mind, and as 
pleased as a child to have me here. He consents to the 
Testimonial, after a hard struggle, so my object is gained, 
and when I come back we shall set to work at once. 

LXXXIV 

TO GEORG LICHTENSTEIN 

(Translated from tJie German) 

June 8, 1885. 

My dear Lichtenstein, Best thanks for your kind letter. 
And now, in haste, a few lines about our old friend. Heller. 
For the past two years he has been almost totally blind. He 



\_Translation~] 

Paris: March 13, 1885. 

Dear Halle, . . . My eyes are a little better alas ! very little. What 
I have just written is before me pale, effaced, veiled. But I am not 
quite blind, and may God leave me what I have. When I think of the 
poor wretches I see at the doctor's, I may well render thanks to God. Ah, 
my friend, however little fortunate one may be, there is always some 
greater misfortune which one has been spared. Everything is relative. 
Fontenelle, at ninety-eight years of age, being unable to pick up a fan 
which a fair lady he was talking to had dropped, cried : ' Oh, how I regret 
my eighty years ! ' If I were to become blind, how I should regret my 
eyes of to-day ! 

Farewell, friend. Au revoir ! 

ST. HBLLEB. 



314 LETTERS 

sees but a glimmer of light, can find his way in the street, 
but can no longer work, cannot set down a note on paper, 
has not a single pupil, and is so near want that for the past 
nine months (with the help of a few friends) 1 have had to 
support him. 

He has now consented to accept a public testimonial, and 
you will probably in the course of a few days see an appeal 
from me in the Times, which I shall also send to the Edin- 
burgh papers. Sir Frederick Leighton, Robert Browning, 
and I form the committee, but I should like to form a sub- 
committee in all the principal towns, and with regard to 
Edinburgh I hope you will give me your aid. 

He has given pleasure to so many that I may hope to 
collect in all England a sum of 2,OOOL, which would pur- 
chase an annuity of 300/. Always yours, 

CHARLES HALLE. 

LXXXV 

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ' TIMES ' 

Tlie Composer Stephen Heller 

11 Mansfield Street, 

Cavendish Square : June 1885. 

Sir, A distinguished artist, the eminent composer, 
Stephen Heller, whose name is a household word to all 
lovers of music, has been overtaken by a terrible affliction 
almost total blindness. His solitary life is darkened, and the 
pursuit of his art, his only happiness, is henceforth closed to 
him. 

The sorrow of Mr. Heller's personal friends for the 
calamity that has befallen him will, I feel sure, be shared by 
the general public, and I have no hesitation in asking you, 
sir, to allow me to make it known that it is intended to offer 
him some more substantial mark of our sympathy, and of the 
high estimation in which he has always been held among us, 
than a mere expression of condolence in words. 

A small committee, composed of Sir Frederick Leighton, 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 315 

P.R.A., Mr. Robert Browning, and myself, has met to con- 
sider what form our testimonial shall take, and it has been 
decided that, if the necessary funds can be raised, a small 
annuity shall be purchased for M. Heller, that his declining 
years may, at all events, be spared the cruelty of any possible 
pecuniary embarrassments arising from his misfortune. 

So many will doubtless be glad of the opportunity thus 
afforded to repay, in some measure, their debt of gratitude to 
Stephen Heller for the pleasure his exquisite music has given 
them, that we feel confident our appeal will be responded to 
without further words on my part, and I have only to add 
that subscriptions to the 'Heller Testimonial Fund' will be 
received by Messrs. Coutts, 59 Strand ; by Messrs. Forsyth 
Brothers, Deansgate, Manchester, and by me. I am, &c., 

CHARLES "HALLE. 

LXXXVI 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris: 1 juillet 1885. 

Cher Halle, . . . Voila ce que je puiste dire au sujetde 
1'acte de naissance. Je suis ne de parens Israelites, qui se sont 
convertis a la religion catholique lorsque j'avais 12-13 an?, 
je crois. Je crois etre certain d'etre ne le 15 mai 1813- 
1814. Mon nom etait Jacob Heller jusqu'au jour ou je devins 
chretien catholique, et mon nom devenait Stephan (Istvan en 
hongrois) d'aprSs le nom de mon parrain qui etait, je crois, le 
Biirgermeister de Pesth. 

Le bapteme eut lieu dans le Leopoldstadt (faubourg), a 
1'eglise de ce quartier. 

J'ignore les prenoms de mon pere avant le bapteme. II 
s'appelait apres Franz Benedict, et il etait, je crois, des ma 
naissance teneur de livres, ou caissier, dans une fabrique de 
draps d'un riche israelite, nomme Kanitz. C'est done 
probablement dans les registres de la commune ou synagogue 
israelite qu'il faudrait rechercher mon acte de naissance. 
J'ajoute que j 'ignore le nom de famille de ma m&re. 

Dr Jacob Heller etait le fils d'un autre frere de mon pere, 



316 LETTERS 

plus age que lui. II s'appelait Bernard H. et il etait pro- 
fesseur de Tecole Israelite. II etait reste juif, et ne fray ait 
pas avec mon pere, ni avec Peter, a cause de la conversion. 
Ladite veuve J. Heller (Anna) n'est pas d'origine juive. Ce 
doit etre une excellente personne qui a ete tres bien avec ma 
scour Marie, morte (celibataire) il y a cinq on six ans. Cette 
dame a un frere, qui m'a paru dans une certaine circonstance 
(a la mort de ma soeur) un brave homme et un homme 
d'ordre. Mme veuve Heller pourra s'adresser a ce frere 
pour 1'affaire. . . . 

Voila tout ce que je puis te dire, clier Halle. Quant au 
reste, ce que tu me dis est vraiment fort beau. Deja aujour- 
d'hui avec un peu de travail je pourrais vivre sans soucis et 
tracas. Je voudrais te voir delivre de cette pierre d'echoppe- 
ment qui obstrue la route. 

Ton ami des anciens jours comme des derniers, 

ST. HELLER. 

J'ajoute un mot. Dans cette confusion je commence a 
douter si nous avons ete baptises dans 1'eglise de Leopoldstadt 
ou une autre. II me semble que cette eglise etait situee 
Gottenr/asse. Je n'etais pas si jeune alors, et j'avais au moina 
douze ans. Je me rappelle que peu de temps avant cet acte 
j'ai eu une singuliere conversation avec mon pere. II me 
raconta les persecutions et la haine des chretiens envers les 
juifs. Et comme j'exprimais ma compassion il me dit que 
j'etais juif moi-meme. Grande fut ma stupefaction. Je n'en 
savais rien, car rien dans la maison ne le fit soupconner ; dn 
moins je ne le remarquai pas. Je me mis a pleurer. Mon 
pere me prit dans ses bras, et me dit, ' Mon Gobi (Jacob), ces 
malheurs seront detournes de toi. Tu deviendras cliretien, 
et nous tous egalement.' Lorsque je fus prepare au bapteme 
par le cure, il dit a mon pere, ' Votre enfant est ne chretien ; 
il n'est imbu d'aucune pensee juive.' C'est mon pere qui 
m'a raconte cela. Depuis il n'a plus jamais parle de cette 
episode de ma vie. 

Mon unique espoir est maintenant dans les souvenirs de 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 317 

ma cousine. Mais ma soeur etait aussi d'une nature absorbee, 
distraite, et n'ayant pas 1'idee de la vie pratique. 1 



1 [ Translation] 

Paris : July 1, 1885. 

Dear Hallfi, . . . Here is all I can tell you about the certificate of 
my birth : I was born of Jewish parents, who were converted to the 
Catholic religion when I believe I was twelve to thirteen years of age. I 
believe I can certainly say that I was born on May 15, 1813-1814. My 
name was Jacob Heller until the day that I became a Catholic, and my 
name was changed to Stephen (1st van in Hungarian), after my god- 
father, who was I believe the Burgomaster of Pesth. 

The baptism took place in the parish church of the Leopoldstadt 
quarter. 

I do not know what were my father's fore-names before his baptism. 
Afterwards he was called Francis Benedict, and he was from the time of my 
birth, I believe, book-keeper or cashier in the cloth-factory of a wealthy 
Israelite of the name of Kanitz. It will therefore probably be in the parish 
register or in the Jewish Synagogue that the certificate of my birth must 
be looked for. I may add that I do not know my mother's family name. 

Dr. Jacob Heller was the son of an elder brother of my father. His 
name was Bernard Heller, and he was a professor in the Jewish College. 
He remained a Jew, and held no intercourse with my father, nor with 
Peter, on account of their conversion. The widow, J. Heller (Anna), you 
refer to is not of Jewish origin. She must be an excellent person, and was 
on good terms with my sister Marie, who died (unmarried) five or six 
years ago. This lady has a brother, who seemed to me on a certain occa- 
sion (at my sister's death) to be a good, steady-going man. Madame J. 
Heller might obtain her brother's help in the matter. . . . 

That is all I can tell you, dear Halle. As to the rest, what you tell me 
is very satisfactory. Already, with the addition of a little work, it would 
enable me to live without care or anxiety. I should like to see you free of 
the stumbling-block that obstructs the way. Your friend now as in times 
past, 

STEPHEN HELLER. 

I add another word. In this confusion I begin to doubt whether we 
were christened in the Leopoldstadt church or in another. I fancy that 
the church was in the Gottengasse. I was not so young at the time I was 
at least twelve years of age. I remember that a short while liefore the 
ceremony I had a remarkable conversation with my father. He told me 
of all the persecutions of the Jews by the Christians, and of all their 
hatred. And when I expressed my compassion, he told me that I was myself 
a Jew. Great was my stupefaction. I knew nothing of it, and nothing in 
our home would have made one suspect it at least, nothing that I had 
ever remarked. I began to cry. My father took me in his arms and said : 
' My Gobi (Jacob), these misfortunes will be averted from you. You will 
become a Christian, and all of us as well.' When I was being prepared for 



318 LETTERS 

LXXXVII 

TO GEORG LICHTENSTEIN 
(Translated from the German) 

11 Mansfield Street, London: 

July 7, 1885. 

My dear Lichtenstein, Pray let me know if you have 
sent the statement respecting Heller's birth to Pesth, and if 
your brother, or some one else, will take the matter up in 
earnest, and if you hope to be able to obtain the certificate. 
The Testimonial Fund is getting on not at all badly. You 
wrote that you had received nearly 15Z. I have therefore 
credited you with 14Z., which brings my total to 1,392Z. 14s., 
which is sure to reach 1,400L to-day, so that only some 6001. 
are still wanting. 

I intend to publish the first list of subscribers in the 
Times at the end of this week, so kindly send me word by 
then the exact amount you have received, so that we may 
make a good show ! 

Next Sunday I go to Hagen for a week to see my sister, 
and must then come back here in the hope of soon getting 
the whole thing finished. 

Do your best therefore to get that certificate, or I shall be 

in a pickle ! 

Ever yours, 

C. HALLE. 

LXXXVIII 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 20 juillet '85. 

Cher Halle, Je suis bien aise d'apprendre que tu n'as 
pas songe a t'adresser au public allemand. Je ne puis 
t'apprendre rien de nouveau. Je ne puis me souvenir de 

baptism by the rector, he said to my father, ' Your child is a born Christian ; 
He is imbued with no Jewish sentiment whatever.' My father repeated 
his words to me. He never again spoke of that episode in my life. 

My only hope now lies in the memory of my cousin. But my sister 
was also of a vague and dreamy nature, and with no idea of the workaday 
side of life. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 319 

choses que je n'ai jamais su. Mon pere ne parlait jamais do 
ses affaires, et meme je le voyais peu, de sorte que les choses 
qui sont connues dans des families bien ordonnees et bien 
constitutes me sont restees a jamais inconnues. Je crois 
etre sur que mon pere s'appelait Ignace, encore plus que 
ma mere s'appelait Aloysia et qu'elle abhorrait son nouveau 
nom de Scholastique, et nous defendit de la nommer ainsi. 
Je n'ai aucune souvenance d'une adoption d'une de mes 
soeuis par 1'oncle Peter. Ni mon pere ni ma mere n 'etait 
Hongrois. Us sont venus de la Boheme, et ils etaient ce 
qu'on appelait chez nous Deutsch-Bohmen. Leur langue 
etait 1'allemand. Puisqu'on a trouve Ign. et Aloysia, on 
doit me trouver aussi. 

Pour aujourd'hui je termine. Bientot je t'ecrirai de 
nouveau, car je ne dois pas craindre de te fatiguer. 

Ton ST. HELLER. 

Peut-etre ne m'a-t-on pas dit la verite sur toutes choses. 
L'education et la maniere de traiter les enfants chez les juifs 
de 1'ancien temps, et notamment dans un pays comme la 
Hongrie, alors si peu avance, a ete quelque chose d'inconce- 
vable denos jours. Pas d'entretien intime, familial, expansif. 
Les peres jouaient une maniere de Jehovah; insondables, 
mysterieux, taciturnes et toujours prets a punir. Les meres 
seules etaient douces et tendres envers les enfants. Ainsi 
etait ma mere. Mais lorsque je jouissais de cet ineffable 
bonheur detre entoure des soins d'un amour maternel, 
j'etais trop jeune pour les comprendre. L'enfance n'a pas 
d'entrailles, et elle recompense les bontes sublimes de la mere 
par une sorte d'ingratitude inconsciente et cruelle dans son 
enfantillage irresponsable. Lorsque j'arrivai a Tage ou je 
pouvais rendre amour pour amour, je fus arrache des bras de 
ma mere. 1 

[Translation] 

Paris : July 20, '85. 

Dear Halle, I am very glad you did not think of addressing yourself to 
the German public ... I can tell you nothing fresh. I cannot remember 
things that I never knew. My father never spoke of his affairs, in fact I 



320 LETTERS 

LXXXIX 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris: 28 juillet 1885. 

Mon cher Halle, Ma plus grande joie etait d'abord de te 
savoir delivre de ce cauchemar d'acte de naissance. 1 Puis, 
en continuant de lire, j'apprends la belle reussite de ton 
ceuvre, ceuvre d'amitie, s'il en fut jamais. Comme cela prouve 
ton influence, ton pouvoir dans ce grand pays, ton activite, 
mais par-dessus tout ton affection pour ton vieux frere d'armes ! 
Nous avons toujours servi sous le menie drapeau, dans ce 
qu'on appelle les armes savantes, dans le corps du genie. Je 
t'en prie, ami, va clore cette ceuvre. . . . Les raisons pour 
te demander de 1'arreter sont : 1 II ne faut en rien forcer 
la note. Le resultat obtenu est tres beau ; pourquoi en 
vouloir un resultat encore plus beau ? Lemieux estl'ennemi 

saw him but little. So that matters which are known in well-regulated 
and well-ordered families, remained for ever unknown to me. I am almost 
sure that my father's old name was Ignatius, and still more so that my 
mother's was Aloysia, and that she abhorred her new name Scholastica 
and forbade us ever to use it. I have no recollection of the adoption of 
one of my sisters by my Uncle Peter. Neither my father nor my mother 
were Hungarians. They came from Bohemia, and were what is called 
ncutscli-Bohmen. They spoke German. If they have found Ignatius and 
Aloysia they ought to find me also. 

That is all for to-day. I shall soon write again as I need have no fear 
of wearying you. Yours, 

ST. HELLEB. 

Perhaps I was not told the truth about all things. The education 
and the treatment of children among the Jews in those days, and notably 
in a country like Hungary, then so little advanced in civilisation, was 
something quite inconceivable nowadays. No sort of intimate, familiar 
family intercourse. The fathers were a kind of Jehovah, inscrutable, 
mysterious, taciturn, and ever ready to punish. The mothers alone were 
sweet and tender to their children. So was my mother. But when 1 
enjoyed the ineffable happiness of being the object of maternal care and 
love, I was too young to appreciate it. Childhood is heartless, and it pays 
back the mother's sublime goodness with a sort of ingratitude that is uncon- 
scious and cruel in its irresponsible childishness. When I came to the age 
when I could return love for love, I was torn from my mother's arms. 

1 My father had had infinite trouble to get the necessary certificate of 
Heller's birth, for the purchase of his annuity. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 321 

da bien, dit un proverbe. 2 Plus la chose va, plus les 
chances augmentent de voir les journanx francais et allemands 
en parler, et en faire des gloses. Cela pent devenir pour 
quelques reporters d'art un article amusant, cancanier; les 
uns seront pleins d'une pitie humiliante, les autres seront 
malicieux ; ceux-la approuveront, ceux-ci critiqueront, et ils 
defendront leur opinion. Si chetif que soit mon personnage, 
un chroniqueur a bout de ressources, un redacteur ou reporter 
sans theme, ou sans ouvrage, s'empare de tout ce qui peut lui 
donner matiere a un article ou a un entrefilet. En France 
on ne comprend guere ce qu'on appelle la-bas un Testimonial, 
etc. Ici on regardera cela comme une de ces souscriptions 
que le ' Figaro ' ouvre de temps en temps au profit d'un mayon 
tombe d'un echafaudage. En Allemagne c'est encore pis. 

Je pense que si tu abreges, ou plutut si tu fermes la 
souscription, que les journaux ne publiant plus rien, on 
oubliera plus vite. Je tremble a 1'idee de ce qu'un journaliste 
franpais pourra faire de tout cela. Je t'assure que je serais, 
avec le produit annonce et les quelques appoints cites, par- 
faitement a 1'abri de tout besoin. 

Ton but est done, et deja, atteint. Assez la-dessus. 

La nouvelle de la mort de Henry Forsyth m'a profonde- 
ment afflige. C'etait la perle des editeurs. Jamais je ii'ai eu 
affaire a un pareil, et je n'en aurai jamais a un homme sem- 
blable. II a eu toutes les qualites desirables, et je ne 1'ou- 
blierai jamais. 

Je ne vois plus et je termine, raais j'ecrirai bientot, sans 
attendre une lettre de toi. J'ai vu ce matin pendant 3 
minutes seulement, M me D. Je luiai communique le contenu 
de ta lettre. Elle en a ete profondement touchee, surtout de 
tes paroles : que de nous deux le plus heureux, c'est toi. 

C'est une noble parole qui doit t'etre comptee ici-bas et 
la-haut. 

Ton ami, 

ST. HELLER. 1 
[Translation'] 

Paris : July 28, 1885. 

My dear Halle, My greatest joy was to learn that you were delivered 

Y 



322 LETTERS 



XC 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris: 7 aout 1885. 

Cher Halle, Tu as le don de me rassurer, tache difficile, 
j'en conviens, ou tu reussis admirablement. Ainsi dormirais- 

from that nightmare of a certificate. 1 Then, on reading further, I sawthe 
great result of your labour, a labour of friendship, if ever there was one. 
How it proves your influence, your power in that great country, your 
activity, but above all yonr affection for yonr old brother-in-arms ! "We 
have always served under the same flag, in what may be called the scien- 
tific branch of the service the engineers. Now I pray you, friend, bring 
your good work to a close . . . The reasons why I beg you to stop are : 1st, 
a thing must never be overdone. The result obtained is very good ; why 
endeavour to improve upon it ? The proverb says : Le mieux est I'ennemi 
du Urn. 2nd, the longer the thing lasts, the greater the chance that 
the French and German papers will get hold of it and make their c~m- 
ments. It might become for some art-reporters the subject of an amusing, 
gossipy article ; some would be full of humiliating compassion ; others 
would be malicious, some would approve, others would criticize, and all 
would defend their opinions. However insignificant a personage I may be, 
a chronicler at the end of his resources, an editor or a reporter in want of 
a subject or in want of work, lays hold of whatever may furnish him with 
an article or a paragraph. In France, what you call a testimonial, &c., is 
hardly understood. Here it would be looked upon like one of those sub- 
scriptions opened from time to time in the Figaro, in aid of a stonemason 
who has fallen from a scaffolding. In Germany it is far worse. 

I think that if you curtail, or rather if you close the subscription list at 
once, if the papers publish nothing more, it will be the sooner forgotten. I 
tremble at the thought of what a French journalist might make of it all. 
I assure you that with the sum announced, and the small additions quoted, 
I should be perfectly sheltered from want. 

Your object is therefore attained. Enough thereon. 

The news of Henry Forsyth's death afflicted me profoundly. He was 
the pearl of publishers. I never had to do with his equal, and I shall never 
meet with such another man. He had every desirable quality, and I shall 
never forget him. 

I can no longer see and must stop, but I shall soon write again, with- 
out waiting for a letter from you. I saw Madame D. for three minutes 
this morning, and I gave her the contents of your letter. She was pro- 
foundly touched, especially by your w r ords : that of us two, the happier is 
yourself. 

It was a noble saying, which will be repaid you here and hereafter. 

Your friend, 

STEPHEN HELLER. 

1 Of Heller's birth, for the purchase of his annuity. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 323 

je sur les deux oreilles, comme tu le dis, si je n'etais autre- 
raent empecbe par des raisons de sante. Mais rien n'est plus 
ennuyeux pour soi et pour les autres que de parler de ses 
maux, dont, du reste, personne n'est entiereraent exempt. 

Tu m'as fait bien lire en me demandant si je suis sur 
d'etre ne. Par le ciel, c'est a en douter. Je pense avec 
commiseration aux reclierches laborieuses du biographe futur 
pour fixer definitivement la date de ma naissance, comme cela 
s'est vu pour d'autres grands homines ! Tu es trcs occupe 
en ce moment, done je ne t'ecris que ces quelques lignes. Je 
me reserve le droit de t'ecrire quand j'aurai besoin de 
m'epancher dans un coeur fraternel. Mais je ne te tracasserai 
pas. Je causerai avec toi, car je n'ai personne qui me com- 
prend. Hiller me disait un jour : ' Personne ne comprend 
personne.' C'est un peu pessimiste. 

A bientot. Ton 

ST. IlELLER. 1 

XCI 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris : 30 septembre 1885. 

Mon cher Halle, Je ne m'attendais pas de si tot a une 
lettre de toi, pensant bien qu'apres une longue absence et a 

1 \_Translation~] 

Paris : August 7, 1885. 

Dear Halle", You have the gift of reassuring me, a difficult task, I 
allow, but one in which you succeed admirably. Therefore I should sleep 
on both ears, as you say, were I not prevented from doing so by reasons of 
health. But nothing is more tedious to oneself and to others than to talk 
of one's ailments, from which, indeed, no one is wholly exempt. 

You made me laugh by asking me if I am sure that I was ever born? 
P>y Heaven, one might doubt it. I think with commiseration of the 
laborious researches of my future biographer to establish the date of my 
birth, as has happened before in the case of other great men! You are 
very busy at present, so I shall only write a few lines. I reserve the right 
to write to you whenever I feel the need of unbosoming myself to a frater- 
nal soul. But I shall not tease you. I shall chat with you, for I have no 
one here who understands me. Hiller once said to me : ' No one under- 
stands any one.' That is somewhat pessimistic. 

Farewell for the present, 

Yours, 

ST. HELLER. 



324 LETTERS 

la veille de grands concerts tu serais bien absorbe par mille 
soins necessaii'es. Le plaisir de recevoir de tes nouvelles a 
done ete d'autant plus grand. Tes occupations ne font pas 
ernpeche de penser a ton ami. 

Ton sejour a etc une vraie joie pour moi ; I'amitie, 1'affec- 
tion et la satisfaction de 1'artiste ont egalement trouve leur 
compte. Tout ce que tu nous a fait entendre, a moi et a 
madame D., reste dans iios souvenirs comme une des plus 
parfaites manifestations d'un art accompli. Madame D. en 
parle a tout le monde. Moi, j'ecoute, et je me dis : je sais 
tout cela depuis bien longtemps ! Conserve encore bien des 
annees cette force et ce pouvoir, c'est mon vceu, et cela sera, 
car tu aimes 1'art, et rien n'a pu entamer on amoindrir en toi 
cette noble passion. Ainsi tu joueras procliainement mon 
petit opuscule. Ce n'est pas pour toi, c'est pour moi que je 
prierai. Quant a ' 1'affaire,' tout est bieo, ce que tu as fait, ce 
que tu fais et ce que tu feras. Je serai desormais a 1'abri de 
tout souci. Je me donnerai, avec 1'aide de Dieu, le petit supple- 
ment qu'il me faut, et qui achevera ce que Horace appelle si 
judicieusement la mediocrite doree. C'est tout ce que desirait 
ce sage immortel, et ce que je me permets de desirer a mon 
tour. Tu me promets une visite pour le mois de mars. C'est 
une longue echeance. C'est le cas de dire : qui vivra, verra. 

J'espere vivre et te revoir. Je te serre la main et je suis 
ton ami, ST. HELLER. 1 

1 [Translation] 

Paris : Sept. 30, 1885. 

My dear Halle, I did not expect a letter from you so soon, knowing 
that after a long absence and on the eve of great concerts you would be 
absorbed by a thousand necessary cares. The pleasure of receiving news 
of you was therefore all the greater. Your occupations did not hinder 
you from thinking of your friend. Your visit was a real joy to me ; friend- 
ship, affection, and the satisfaction of the artist, were all equally contented. 
Everything that you made Madame D. and me hear remains in our memory 
as one of the most perfect manifestations of accomplished art. Madame 
D. talks of it to everybody. I listen, and I say to myself : I knew all that 
long ago ! May you long preserve that power and that ability, that is my 
prayer, and you will do so, because you love your art, and nothing has ever 
been able to weaken or diminish that noble passion. So you are soon 
going to play my little work. It is uof. for you, but for myself, that I 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 325 

XCII 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 8 octobre 1885. 

Mon cher Halle, Merci de ta bonne lettre ; je m'empresse 
de t'annoncer que le tout est arrive a bon port. L'appoint 
que to. m'envoies sera bien venu pour boucher les petites 
breches ouvertes par certaines depenses d'hiver, telle que le 
vulgaire bois de ckauffage, objets de literie, vetements chauds 
et autres articles qui nous rappellent les conditions de 1'ex- 
isteuce materielle et triviale. 

Trivial tant qu'on voudra, il est bon de ne pas grelotter et 
de faire reparer des clieminees qui fument et que le pro- 
prietaire, animal cruel et avare par etat, refuse de prendre a 
son compte. Je ne sais pourquoi je me souviens en ce 
moment d'une quittance drolatique que le direuteur d'une 
.Maison dos Pauvres avait adressce u nn donatear de cette 
maison. La voici : ' Mit dankbaren Herzeii bescheinige icli 
hierinit, dass icli von Ilmen erlialten liabe 8 Bettdecken, 
12 Paar wollene Stritinpfe, mid 9 Paar Stiefeln, mit welclieu 
wieder viele Thranen getrocknet worden sind.' 

Je suis bien content que rimpromptu a plu ; es hat 
ausgesprochen, comme disait Rob. Volkmann quand il parlait 
d'une execution d'un de ces morceaux. 

Oui, c'etaient la de bonnes heures que nous avons passe le 
mois dernier. Je me sens depuis porte pour le travail. Une 
grande jouissance musicale produit toujours cet efifet sur moi. 
Les grandes exhibitions de cclebres gymnastiques du piano 

shall pray. As to the < affair,' everything is right, what you have done, 
what you are doing, and what you will do. I shall henceforth be sheltered 
from all anxiety. With the help of God, I can give myself the trifling 
supplement to complete what Horace so judiciously calls a golden 
mediocrity. That was all that wise immortal sighed for, and in my turn, 
it is all that I desire. 

You promise me a visit in the month of March. The date is a late one 
It is really a case of saying : he who lives will see. 

I hope to live and to see you again. I press your hand and I am your 
friend, 

ST. HELLER. 



326 LETTERS 

me laissent froicl corame les melodrames des theatres du 
Boulevard, qui font verser a, un public iuculte des torrents de 
larmes. 

Moi, je suis emu et ravi d'une belle scene, simple, 
naturelle, qui est puisee dans le coeur, efc rendue avec art. 
Get art est celui qui me louche, qui ni'emeut. C'est ce que 
j'ai senti quand tu as joue Beethoven, Chopin, Brahms et 
Schubert. 

Je te serre la main et t'envoie mille amities. 

ST. HELLER. 1 

XCIII 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris: 8 novembre 1885. 

Mon cher Halle, Je m'empresse de t'annoncer que j'ai 
refu une lettre d'une maison de banque, qui a evidemnieiit 

1 [Translation~\ 

Paris : October 8, 1885. 

My dear Halle, Thanks for your good letter. I hasten to announce 
that everything came safely to hand. The remittance you sent will serve 
to stop many little gaps made by certain winter expenses, such as the 
vulgar firewood, bedding, warm clothing, and other articles that remind us 
of the conditions of material and trivial existence. 

Trivial it may be, but it is good not to shiver and to be able to cure a 
smoky chimney, which, the landlord, a cruel and rapacious animal by 
nature, refuses to repair. I do not know why I am reminded at this 
moment of a comical receipt addressed by the master of a poorhouse to a 
benefactor. Here it is : ' With a grateful heart I beg to acknowledge your 
gift of eight blankets, twelve pairs of worsted stockings, and nine pairs of 
boots, with which many tears will once again be wiped away.' 

I am very glad the impromptu pleased ; it spoke out, as Kob. Volkmann 
used to say in speaking of the execution of his works. 

Yes, those were famous hours we spent together last month. Since then 
I have felt impelled to work. A vivid musical pleasure always produces 
that effect upon me. The great exhibitions of certain celebrated gymnasts 
of the piano leave me as unmoved as do the melodramas at the theatres of 
the Boulevards, which cause an uncultivated public to shed torrents of 
tears. 

As for me, I am moved and ravished by a 3ne scene, simple, natural, 
sprung from the heart, and rendered with art. That is what I felt when 
you played Beethoven, Chopin, Brahms, and Schubert. 

I press your hand and I send you a thousand greetings. 

ST. HELLEE. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1885 327 

trait a la rente attendue. Je copie la lettre pour toi, afin 
de te faire connaitre le style financier en usage. ' MM. 
Seilliere, Banquiers, 58 Ruede Provence, avisent M. S. Heller 
qu'ils ont recu de MM. Coutts de Londres un credit en sa 
favour.' Cette litterature n'est peut-etre pas exquise, mais 
elle ne manque pas de charm e. Je suis trop indispose 
aujourd'hui et je nie rendrai demain, lundi, chez ces 
messieurs. Je crois me rappeler que tu devais monter le 
' Mors et Vita ' de Gounod. Dis-moi a 1'occasion si ton im- 
pression premiere ne s'est point modifiee depuis. Je te dis 
adieu pour aujourd'hui. Porte-toi bien et penses quelquefois 
a ton ami et frere. 

ST. HELLER. 1 

XCIV 

FKOM THE SAME 

Paris : 2-4 decembre 1885. 

Mon cher, bien cher ami, Non pas a cause du Jour du 
Nouvel An que je t'envoie ces lignes. II n'y a pas de jour 
ou je ii'aie une bonne pensee pour toi. Je desire pour toi 
toutes les prosperites, toutes les satisfactions du corps et de 
1'arne. Reussis en tout ce que tu fais, efc sois toujours 
eiitoure d'amis affectueux, siiiceres, iutelligents et aimables. 
Je sais que c'est beaucoup demander a la vie. Mais, que je 
voudrais, que je voudrais que ce lot te soit echu ! 



1 [Translation] 

Paris : November 8, 1885. 

My dear Halle, I hasten to announce that I have received a letter 
from a bank, that evidently refers to the expected annuity. I copy the 
letter so as to make you acquainted with the financial style in vogue. 
' Messrs. Seilliere, Bankers, 58 Eue de Provence, advise M. S. Heller that 
they have received from Messrs. Coutts, of London, a credit in his favour.' 
This literature may not be exquisite, but it is not wanting in charm. I am 
too ill to go to-day, but I hope to visit these gentlemen to-morrow, Monday. 
I think I remember that you were to give Gounod's ' Mors et Vita.' When 
you have an opportunity, tell me if your first impression has not been 
modified. Farewell for to-day. Keep well, and sometimes think of your 
friend and brother, ST. HBLLEK. 



328 LETTERS 

Je te serre la main et je reste jusqu'a mon dernier souffle 
ton ami, dans toute Tetendue de ce grand mot : un ami. 

ST. IlELLEK. 1 

XCV 

FEOM THE SAME 

Paris : 3 Janvier 1880. 

Cher Halle, Tn n'as besoin de nulle excuse de ne pas 
m'ecrire plus souvent. Je sais que tu es au feu, devant 
1'eiinemi : je venx dire, devant le public, monstre insatiable 
et impitoyable, qui veut satisfaire ses appetits et ses glouton- 
neries pour 1'argent qu'il donne. Cela demande un grand 
soin, et beaucoup de temps. J'ai eu un veritable plaisir 
d'apprendre que tu as joue la canzonette en mi bemol. II 
y a de bonnes choses, il y en a que j'aurais mieux faites 
plus tard. Je crois qu'il y a beaucoup d'auteurs dans le 
meme cas. L'imagination est peut-etre plus fraiclie et plus 
liardie lorsqu'on est jeune. Le gout, le discernement, 1'ex- 
perience s'acquierent avec les amices. Les deux choses 
reunies produisent les oeuvres parfaites. 

Puisse ton projet de venir a Paris au printemps se 
realiser. 

Ton meilleur ami, 

ST. HELLER. 2 

1 [Translation"} 

Paris: December 24, 1885. 

My dear, very dear Friend, It is not because of New Year's Day that 
I am sending you these few lines. Never a day goes by but that! have a 
kindly thought of you. I wish you every prosperity, every satisfaction of 
soul and body. May you succeed in all you undertake, and be ever sur- 
rounded by affectionate, sincere, intelligent, and amiable friends. I know 
this is asking a good deal from life ; but I wish how I wish ! that this 
may be the fate allotted you ! 

I press your hand, and I remain, until my latest breath, your friend, in 
all the compass of that great word a friend. 

ST. HELLEE. 
[Translation'] 

Paris : January 3, 1 886. 

Dear Halle, You need no excuse for not writing oftener. I know that 
you are under fire, before the enemy I mean before the public; an in- 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1886 329 



XCVI 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris: 3 avril 188G. 

Mon clier Halle. Je te remercie bien de m'avoir si tot 
domic de tes nouvelles. Je rne disais bien que tu aurais 
une mauvaise traversee, le jour etait afFreux. II faut que tu 
sois vraiment ne marin, pour ne pas avoir etc malade. 

Oui, c'etaient quelques jours charmants, qui me laisse- 
ront encore pendant longtenips des souvenirs pleins de serenito 
et de bien-etre. Tu etais, ou tu paraissais, cette fois un vrai 
flaneur, sans affaires, sans souci, sans preoccupation. Tes 
flaneries etaient non aux Boulevards mais Hue des Martyrs, 
cbez ton vieil ami, et tu y apportais la plus affectueuse et la 
plus aimable humeur qu'un ami et un malade peuvent desirer. 
Je iroublierai pas non plus les deux Senates que tu as dit 
avec une admirable perfection, reconnue meme par une 
adepte aussi enthousiaste que partiale de Rubinstein. Tout 
le moiide ne voit pas ce qu'il peut y avoir de faux rubis et 
de fausses perles dans une parure liabilement et ingenieuse- 
ment montee. 

Moi, je demande la simplicite, la sincerite et la verite 
dans une ceuvre d'art, et dans Interpretation artistique de 
quel genre qu'elle soit. Cette verito et cette serenite je les 
trouve dans ta maniere de jouer Beethoven. 

Tu es plus libre en disant les maitres modernes, et en 
cela encore je te donne raison. Us ne sont pas aussi siirs de 
ce qu'ils out fait que les anciens. On peut avec tact et 

satiable and merciless monster that insists upon satisfying its appetite and 
its gluttony for the money it pays. This gives much trouble, and takes 
time. I learnt with real pleasure that you had played the canzonet in 
E Hat. There are some good things in it ; there are some that I should 
have done better later. I think many authors are in the same case. 
Imagination is perhaps fresher and bolder in youth. Taste, discernment, 
and experience come with years. The two united achieve perfection. 
May your project of coming to Paris in the spring be realised. 

Your best friend, 

ST. HEI.LEB. 



330 LETTERS 

mesure un pen les accommoder a sa propre individualite. 
C'est ce que tu fais. efc je t'approuve. 

On commence un peu a gouailler tout le bruit ridicule 
qu'on a fait du grand Ex-virtuose. 1 II parait qu'il a joue 
chez Erard coraine un enfant, mais qu'on y a tout de meme 
repandu des larmes d'attendrissement. Le public parisien 
commence a rire de lui-menie, car le vrai caractere du 
Parisien est frondeur. II aime d'abord le fracas, les arcs de 
triomphe, les transparents et puis il eteint tout, en soufliaiit 
les mots les plus mordants et souvent tres justes dans leur 
cruaute. Le dieu d'hier ii'est bientot qu'un pantin dont il 
s'amuse a coeur joie. Adieu pour aujourd'lmi. 

Je suis toujours ton 

ST. HELLER. 2 

1 Liszt. 

[Translation] 

Paris : April 3, 1886. 

My dear Halle, I thank you for so speedily sending me news of your- 
self. I expected you to have a bad crossing, the weather was frightful. 
Yon must be a born sailor not to have been ill. 

Yes, those were charming days, and have left a serene and lasting 
memory behind them. You were, or you seemed to be this time, a true 
holiday-maker, without business, care, or preoccupation. But you did not 
seek your pleasure on the Boulevard*, but in the Street of Martyrs, with 
your old friend ; and you brought him the most affectionate and the most 
amiable humour that a friend and a sick man could desire. Nor shall I 
forget the two sonatas which you rendered with admirable perfection, 
acknowledged even by a disciple of Rubinstein, as enthusiastic as she is 
partial. It is not every one who can see how many false rubies and sham 
pearls there may be in a set of jewels cleverly and ingeniously mounted. 

I ask for simplicity, sincerity, and truth in a work of art, and in its 
artistic interpretation, in whatever style it maybe. This truth and this 
serenity I find in your playing of Beethoven. 

You are freer in your rendering of the modern masters, and there again 
I agree with you. They are not so sure of what they have done as the 
ancients. One may with tact and within due limits bend them a little 
to one's own individuality. This you do, and here again I am with you. 

People begin to mock at all the ridiculous fuss that has been made over 
the grand ex-virtuoso. It seems he played like a child at Erard's, and 
yet people wept with emotion. The Parisian public is beginning to laugh 
at itself, for the true character of your Parisian is to jeer. He begins by 
enjoying a tumult, triumphal arches and illuminations, and then he extin- 
guishes it all by giving vent to the most biting words, often very accurate 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1886 331 

XCVII 

FHOM THE SAME 

Paris : jeudi, 15 avril 1886. 

Mon clier Halle, Rien qu'un petit bonjour que j'ai en vie 
de t'envoyer. J'espere que tu es bien portant et de bonne et 
belle humeur, comme tu 1'as etc a Paris. 

De ma sante rien de nouveau a dire. 

D'apres quelques reclames dans les journaux frangais notre 
grand Roy Francois Liszt jouit la-bas des memes triomphes 
et ovations qu'a Paris. II a eu cependaiit a essuyer quelques 
observations dans certains journaux parisiens qui manquaient 
completement de respect, et qu'on pourrait qualifier comme 
offuscantes. Francisque Sarcey notamment 1'a rudement 
malinene et 1'appelle un banquiste ! C'est dur de passer ainsi 
de 1'apotheose a la Roche Tarpeienne ! 

Mais notre vieux fou tombe de cette roclie sur ses pieds 
comme les chats ; il en peut etre un peu etourdi, et brille peu 
apres de tout 1'eclat de son genie tapageur et extravagant. 

Je voudrais que tu me dises quelque chose sur tout cela. 

Adieu, cher ami ; je te serre les mains. 

Ton vieux 

STEPHEN HELLER. l 

in their cruelty. The god of yesterday speedily becomes nothing more 
than a puppet with which he amuses himself to his heart's content. 
Adieu for to-day. 

Ever your 

ST. HELLEK. 
\_Translation~] 

Paris : Thursday, April 15, 1886. 

My dear Halle, I only want to wish you good-day. I hope you are 
well, and in the same good and happy mood as when you were in Paris. 
As to my health nothing new to say. 

According to some of the accounts in the French papers, our great 
monarch, Francois Liszt, is enjoying the same triumphs and ovations with 
you that he did in Paris. Nevertheless, he had to endure certain observa- 
tions in some of the Paris papers that were altogether want ing in respect, and 
might even be qualified as stinging. Francisque Sarcey, for one, mauled 
him rudely, and called him a charlatan. It is hard to pass thus from 
apotheosis to the Tarpeian Rock ! 



332 LETTERS 

XCVIII 

FROM STErilEX HELLER 

Paris : 3 aoiit 1880. 

Cher Hallo, Je suis bien content d'avoir de tes nouvelles. 
Je vis maintenant du souvenir de ces jours que j'ai passes 
avec toi. Us out <'to bien cliarmants ! Nous avons bien 
cause, et tu paraissais d'une humeur tres heureuse. Je ne 
sais si j'en avais 1'apparence -; mais, crois le bien, j'ai ete bien 
content, bien satisfait et bien heureux. 

Tu as soif apres le piano, dis-tu. Eh bien, c'est tine sen- 
sation delicieuse, si on peut 1'etancher, bien eiitendu. Tu le 
peux, et tu sais preparer ce breuvage divin qui te rafraicliit, 
te reconforte, et que tu serviras a ceux qui eprouvent aussi 
cette noble soif. Soule-toi done de bonne et belle musique, et 
verse -en de copieuses rasades a tes amis. 

Voila done ce pauvre Liszt disparu a son tour de ce monde, 
qui lui a offert des jouissances, faites pour satisfaire les 
ambitions et les appetits les plus robustes. Que la paix soit 
avec lui, qui n'a rien tant ainie que le bruit ! 

Notre petit cenacle du petit Vefour regrette ton 
absence. . . . 

Mille choses affectueuses, 

ST. HELLER. 

Je t'envoie deux volumes de Guy de Maupassant, ou tu trou- 
veras plusieurs contes remarquables. On peut beaucoup avoir 
u redire de son choix de sujets, et de son trop grand penchant 
pour les choses scabreuses. Mais c'est une riche organisation ; 
un talent puissant et original, un couteur de premier ordre. 1 

But our old madman falls from the rock on his feet, like a cat he may 
be stunned for a moment, but shines again directly in all the effulgence of 
his noisy and extravagant genius. 

I wish you would tell me a little about it all. 
Adieu, dear friend, I press your hands. 

Your old 

ST. HELLER. 
[Translation] 

Paris: August 3, 1886. 
Dear Halle, I am very glad to have news of you. I live upon the re- 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1887 333 

XCIX 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris : 1," mars 1887. 

Clier Halle, Je suis bien content de recevoir de tes 
nouvelles, mais, comme tu le penses, bien afflige, bien peine 
de la nouvelle de la mort de ce bon et excellent Hecht. 1 Oh, 
oui ! tu as raison ; qu'est-ce la vie de cette terre ! 

Je comprends ton einbarras de chef d'orchestre, etant 
prive de la collaboration d'uii second aussi intelligent et 
devoue que I'etait le regrettable Hecht. Je lid aurais predit 
une longne vie, nne verte vieillesse. II etait fort, il titait gai, 
actif, aimant la vie, le travail, et dans une position aisee, a ce 
qu'on m'a dit. Pauvre femnie ! pauvres enfants ! Ah ! je suis 
bien afflige de cette mort, comme de celle de Forsyth, que 
j'estimais de tout mon coeur. J'ai connu deux editeurs (race 
que j'abhorre, car j'en ai connu un grand nombre de veritables 
malfaiteurs) que je porte au cocur. C'etait Forsyth, et c'est 

mernbrance of the days that I spent with you. They were very charming. 
\Ve had some good talk, and you seemed in a very happy humour. I do 
not know if I appeared so, but, believe me, I was very content, very well 
satisfied, and very happy. 

You say you have a thirst for the piano. Well, it is a delightful sensa- 
tion, if one can quench it, that is to say. You can do so, and you know- 
how to prepare this divine beverage which refreshes and revives you, and 
which you can pour out for those who feel the same noble thirst. Inebriate 
yourself well, therefore, with good and beautiful music, and serve copious 
bumpers of it to your friends. 

So poor Liszt, in his turn, has disappeared from this world, which had 
offered him joys enough to satisfy the most robust ambitions and desires. 
May he rest in peace, who loved nothing so well as noise and tumult. 

Our little circle at the ' Petit Vefour ' regrets your absence. 

A thousand affectionate greetings, 

ST. HELLER. 

I send you two volumes of Guy de Maupassant, wherein you will find 
several remarkable stories. One may find much to object to in his choice 
of subjects, and in his predilection for doubtful topics, but his is a rich 
o r ganisation, a powerful and original talent ; he is a story-teller of the first 
rank. 

1 Mr. Edward Hecht, for many years my father's chorus-master and 
intimate friend. 



334 LETTERS 

Edwin Ashdown, un brave et genoreux liomme, un liomme 
d'esprit et de cocur, sans aucune affectation de bienfaiteur et 
de benisseur, mais qui agit bien et grandement, sans phrases. 

Je ne suis pas sorti de ma cliambre depuis les premiers 
jours de Janvier. Tu jugeras, d'apres cela, combien je suis 
souffrant pour rompre ainsi toutes mes habitudes. Que je 
serai lieureux de te revoir, et de re-entendre cette voix si 
amicale. si connue, si liee a toute ma vie passee et preserite ! 
Je n'ai pas bien saisi le passage de ta lettre ou il est question 
de 1'Exposition Anglaise. Est-ce que cela augmentera ou 
diminuera ton activite ? Prends-tu part a la musique officielle 
des fetes, ou jouiras-tu des loisirs d'une interruption de tes 
travaux habituels, en te tenant eloigne des productions 
gouvernementales avec grosses caisses, tambours et panaches 
militaires et civils ? 

On dit ici des merveilles de la Symphonie en sol mineur 
de Saint-Saens. Elle a ete jouee a Londres, je crois. Qu'eii 
sais-tu ? On 1'a executee trois fois au Conservatoire avec un 
succes d'enthousiasme, et declaree son chef-d'oeuvre. 

Assez bavarde. Porte-toi bien ; conserve ta bonne humeur 
cela vaut mieux que les visites et les remedes des plus 
grands medecins. 

Ton invariable ami pour toujours, ST. HELLER. l 



1 [Translation] 

Paris: March 15, 1887. 

Dear Halle, I am very glad to have news of you, but, as you can 
imagine, very much grieved, deeply pained to hear of the death of that 
good and excellent Hecht. Ah, yes ! you are right : what is this earthly 
life ? 

I can understand your embarrassment as a conductor at being deprived 
of so intelligent and devoted a collaborator as was the regretted Hecht. 
I should have predicted for him a long life, a green old age. He was 
strong, cheerful, active, fond of his life, of his work, and in fair circum- 
stances, as I have heard. Poor wife ! poor children ! Ah ! I am much 
afflicted by this death, as I was by that of Forsyth, whom I esteemed with 
all my heart. I have known two publishers (a race which I abhor, for I 
have known many who were real malefactors) for whom I have a warm 
feeling. One was Forsyth, the other is Edwin Ashdown, a good and 
generous man, a man of heart and intellect, with no affectation of being a 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1887 335 

C 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris: 30 mai 1887. 

Mon cher Halle, Rien qu'un petit bonjour, parce que je 
me sens unpeu mieux ce matin, ayant etc si souffrant la nuit 
passee. Alors, se retrouvant encore deboat, respirant, man- 
geant un pen, buvant, lisant le journal, on a ressaisi le senti- 
ment de la vie ; la petite flamme, tout a 1'heure si faible, s'est 
ranimee on est heureux . . . tant 1'homme tient a la vie et 
a ses sensations. Ton aimable fils m'a envoye nne photo- 
graphic de mon portrait. Madame D. en est enchantee. Elle 
trouve bien du talent a ton fils, et moi aussi. . . . 

II aurait fallu mettre en bas : ' Photographie d'apres un 
portrait de Ch. Halle fils,' et mon nom. Je 1'aurais donne a 
Brandus et a Hamelle pour 1'exposer a leur vitrine. Tu es 
maintenant dans le coup de feu. J'aurais voulu etre a tes 
cotes. Amities. ST. HELLER. 1 

benefactor or a patron, but dealing fairly and liberally, without unnecessary 
talk. 

I have not been out of my room since the early days of January. You 
can judge how ill I must be thu to break off all my habits. How liappy 
I should be to see you and to hear your friendly voice again, so well known, 
so bound up with my past and present life ! I did not quite understand 
the passage in your letter referring to the I^nglish Exhibition. Will it 
increase or diminish your activity? Are you going to take part in the 
official music of the fetes, or will you enjoy the leisure of an interruption 
of your habitual labours, by holding aloof from official functions, with their 
big drums, kettle drums, and civil and military pageants 1 

Great things are said here of Saint-Saens' Symphony in G minor. It 
has been given in London, I bel eve. What do you know about it ? It 
was played three times at the Conservatoire with enthusiastic success, and 
declared to be his masterpiece. 

Enough chatter. Keep well : preserve your cheerful humour. It is 
worth more than the vis-'ts and prescriptions of the greatest doctors. 

Your ever faithful friend, ST. HELLER. 

1 [ Translation^ 

Paris : May 30, 1887. 

My dear Halle', I wish you good morning, feeling a little better after 
a very bad night. So, finding oneself still erect, still alive, eating a little, 
drinking a little, able to read the paper, one takes hold of life again ; the 
little flame, so feeble just now, revives again. One feels happy ... so 



336 LETTERS 

CI 

FROM STEPHEN HELLER 

Paris : 8 juillet 1887. 

Cher Hallo, Que fais-tu ? Que deviens-tn ? Toujours 
clans la musiqne jusqu'au cou ? Que Dieu te conserve telle 
puissance de travail, car c'est un grand bonheur si ce n'est 
en meme temps nne necessite. La clialeur ici est intense ; 
j'en souffre moins, car je ne SOTS pas, etant tonjours confine 
chez moi, et force a 1'immobilite. 

Quand tu auras le temps, le loisir, la disposition, tu 
m'ecriras qnelques notes sur ta vie, sur tes affaires, sur tes 
projets. Peut-Atre meme viendras-tu passer un jour ou deux 
fi, Paris ; alors j'apprendrai de vive voix ce qui m'interesse 
tant de savoir. 

Le pauvre L. Couppey est parti de ce monde. II a ete 
un tres grand ami et propagateur de ma musique. II n'avait 
pas d'eleve, ni de petit eleve, ni d'arriere-petit eleve (il 
comptait des generations d'eleves) qui ne connut une grande 
partie de mes ouvrages. Mais nous ne nous voyions que deux 
ou trois fois par annee, et nousn'avions aucuiie relation qu'on 
peut qualifier d'intime ou d'amicale. 

C'est 1'inverse d'autres qui sont des vrais amis, intimes, 
serviables, affectueux et sympathiquement devoues a ma 
personne, et qui sont indiffe rents, froids et muets pour 
1'artiste, c'est-a-dire pour ses ceuvres. 

Ainsi va le monde. II y a des choses excellentes, mais 
rien n'est complet ni parfait. J'attends 1'autre monde. Je 



closely does man cling to life and to its sensations Your amiable son has 
sent me a photograph of my portrait. Madame D. was delighted with it. 
She sees great talent in your son, and so do I. ... 

It should have been inscribed : ' Photograph of a portrait by Charles 
Halle, the younger,' and my name. I should have given it to Brandus and to 
Hamelle to show in their shop-windows. You are now in the heat of battle. 
"Would I were by your side. Yours, 

STEPHEN HELLEB. 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1887 337 

m'y achemine en tapinois, et avec une curiosite un pen 
craintive. . . . 

Ton fidele 

ST. HELLER. 1 

CII 

FROM THE SAME 

Paris : aout 188 

Cher ami, Que je suis heureux de te savoir si bieri 
installe, si content du pays 2 que tu habites en ce moment, 
et que tout cela semble te donner une serenite d'esprit, et un 
bien-etre physique qui se trahit clairement dans ta lettre. 
Quant a moi, je no puis pas te parler des frais ombrages et 
des brises fortifiantes de la mer ; elles font defaut u la rue de 
Laval, et il y en a encore moins rue Victor Masse. 3 II y a 

1 [Translation"] 

Paris: July 8, 1887. 

Dear Halle, What are you doing 1 What has become of you ? Still 
up to the neck in music? May God long preserve this power of work in 
you, for it is a great happiness, if it is not at the same time a necessity. 
The heat here is intense. I suffer less from it as I do not go out, being 
entirely confined to my room in a state of immobility. 

When you have time, opportunity, and inclination, you will write me a 
few words about yourself, your affairs, your projects. Perhaps you will 
even come for a day or two to Paris ; then I shall hear from your own lips 
all that it so much interests me to know. 

Poor L. Couppey has departed this life. He was a great friend and a 
great populariser of my music. There was not one of his pupils, or grand- 
pupils, or great-grand-pupils (he counted his pupils by generations) who 
did not know my works. But we only saw each other two or three 
times a year, and held no intercourse that could be termed intimate or 
friendly. 

It is just the reverse with others who are true friends, intimate, 
serviceable, affectionate, and sympathetically devoted to my person, but 
who are indifferent, cold, and mute to the artist that is to say, to his 
works. 

So goes the world. There are excellent things in it, but nothing com- 
plete nor perfect. I am waiting for the other world. I am advancing 
towards it shyly, and with a somewhat timid curiosity. . . . 

Your faithful 

ST. HBLLEE. 

2 Warsash, on Southampton Water. 

3 The name of the street was changed from Laval to Victor Masse. 

Z 



338 LETTERS 

toujours une vive opposition centre 1'auteur des ' Noces de 
Jeannette,' et le principal opposant est un riclie loueur de 
voitures dela rue, qui organise la revolte, et depense beaucoup 
d'argent pour des banderoles en percale, avec 1'inscriptioii : 
' Cette rue s'appelle Hue de Laval.' Mais je crois que force 
restera au Conseil Municipale, cette collection d'enfants 
terribles, qui nous imposeront bientot des changements bien 
autreraent graves, si les bonnets-de-coton conservateurs et 
bien-pensants les laissent faire avec une colere timide et une 
indignation inactive. 

On ne peut pas dire de ma sante la phrase habituelle des 
bulletins de sante : Le mieitx (ne pas lire le vieux) persiste. 
C'est absolument le contraire. J'aurais desire t'envoyer de 
ces beaux Dandies de cigares, chamarres d'argent et de galons. 
Je te garde les trois uniques que j'ai ; Dieu pourvoira a 
1'avenir ! 

J'ai eu un veritable plaisir en apprenant que ton brave 
ills a vendu tous les tableaux qu'il avait exposes. C'est 
charmant, un artiste qui renait de deux cotes. II recueille 
les honneurs du bon travail, il amasse des couronnes de 
laurier, et du vil metal qui donne de si bonnes choses. 

Certes, tu ne peux compter pour une victime de la 
Revolution de juillet ! Et Dieu en soit loue. Tu as accompli 
une vie de travail, d'honneur, de succes, et ayant donne du 
savoir, de 1'instruction, du talent a une nombreuse famille, tu 
as encore pu eriger un monument a 1'amitie ! A une 
prochaine fois ; mille poignees de main. 

ST. HELLER.' 

^Translation'^ 

Dear Friend, How glad I am to know you so comfortably installed, 
so content in your present quarters ; you seem to have gained an increase 
of serenity of spirit and a physical well-being which clearly betra} r them- 
selves in your letter. As for me, I cannot speak to you of cool shades or 
of the invigorating breezes of the spa ; they are wanting in the Rue de 
Laval, and still more so in the Rue Victor Masse. There is still a violent 
opposition against the composer of the ' Noces de Jeannette,' and the 
principal antagonist is a rich job-master in the street, who organises the 
rebellion, and spends a great deal of money in calico streamers, with the 
inscription, ' This street is called Rue de Laval.' But I think the Municipal 



FROM STEPHEN HELLER, 1887 339 



cm 

FKOM THE SAME 

5 septembre 1887. 

Cher ami, J'ai recu le volume, il y aquatre on cinq jours, 
et je t'ai ecrit aussitot pour t'en remercier. Mais, croyant que 
tu aurais quitte la campagne pour quelque voyage que tu fais 
d'ordinaire, j'ai envoye ma lettre a Manchester, ou tu la 
trouveras sans doute. Je suis tres content d'avoir une 
nouvelle lettre et de voir que tu vas bien, et que tu te reposes 
encore ; si cela me va de te voir encore une fois cette annee 
je le crois bien. Et ne serait-ce qu'un jour d'arret a Paris, 
tn aurais toujours une ou deux heures pour moi ? 

Mon etat est deplorable. J'ai des jours et des nuits ou 
la vie m'est indifferente. D'autres ou je vegete mais je ne 
suis jama is bien. 

Ce livre de Nottebohm m'interesse enormement. Seule- 
ment je dois le lire a petites doses et a grands intervalles ; 
je travaille dans ma memoire (tant qu'elle ra'obeit) les 
ouvrages dont il parle, et cela me fatigue beaucoup. Comme 
il se repete infinimentj et qu'il veut etre tres clair, il devient 

Council will have the last word. That collection of enfants terrilles will 
soon impose far more serious changes upon us, if our well-intentioned 
conservative 'night-caps,' with their timid rage and inactive indignation, 
allow them to have their way. 

As to my health, I cannot quote the habitual phrase of bulletins of 
health : ' The improvement continues.' The exact contrary is the case. 

I should have liked to fend you a few of those fine dandy cigars, all 
rigged out with silver and stripes. I am keeping you the ]ast three ; 
Heaven will provide for the future ! It gave me real pleasure to hear 
that your good son had sold all the pictures he had exhibited. It is 
charming to see the artist born again in another mould. He is reaping 
the honours of good work, he will amass crowns of laurel, and of that vile 
metal that purchases so many good things. 

Certainly, you cannot be counted among the victims of the Revolution 
of July ! And God be praised for it. You have accomplished a life of 
labour, of honour, of success, and having given knowledge, instruction, 
and talent, to a numerous family, you have yet found means to erect a 
monument to friendship ! Till we meet again a thousand shakes of your 
hand ! ST. HELLEK. 

z2 



340 LETTERS 

un peu fatigant. Mais c'est d'un poignant interet, et je te 
remercie bien de me 1'avoir envoye. 

C'est dur de se soparer d'un enfant, et pour une contree 
si lointaine ! Corame on s'applique d'etre mallieureux pour 
etre heureux ! II y a quelque cliose de mysterieux et 
d'insondable dans le coeur, et dans 1'esprit de 1'homme. 

Ton adresse actuelle m'est tres difficile a ecrire (encore 
plus a retenir) et resonne a mes oreilles d'une facon dis- 
harmonieuse. Je n'aime pas Warsash ; j'aime encore moins 
Tit < Ji field, mais je trouve horrible Hants, qui veut dire Hamp- 
shire, je le sais ; cette facon auglaise d'abreger me deplait 
enormement. Idiosyucrasie. Mille amities tendres et 
fraternelles. 

ST. HELLER. 1 

1 [Translation] 

September 5, 1887. 

Dear Friend, I received the volume four or five days ago, and I wrote 
at once to thank you. But, thinking 1 you had probably left the country 
for one of your usual journeys, I sent the letter to Manchester, where you 
will probably find it. I was very glad to receive another letter, and to 
learn that you are well, and still resting yourself. If it will suit me to 
see you again this year ? I should rather think so. And if you only 
pause for a day in Paris, you would still have an hour or two for me. 

My state is deplorable. There are days and nights when life becomes 
indifferent to me. There are others when I vegetate, there are none when 
I feel well. 

Nottebohm's book interests me enormously. Only I can only take it 
in very small doses and at long intervals ; I go over in my memory (so far 
as it obeys me) the works of which lie speaks, and it tires me greatly. 
As he repeats himself continually, and as he wants to be very clear, he 
becomes rather fatiguing. But it is keenly interesting, and I thank ycu 
heartily for having sent it to me. 

It is hard to part with a child, and for so distant a country ! 2 How 
miserable one makes oneself in order to be happy I There is something 
mysterious and unfathomable in the heart and mind of man. 

Your present address is very difficult to write (and still harder to 
remember), and sounds most inharmoniously to my ear. I do not like 
Warsash, I like Titchjield still less, but I find Hants horrible ; it means 
Hampshire I know, and that English fashion of abbreviation displeases 
me enormously. Idiosyncrasy. 

A thousand tender and fraternal greetings. ST. HELLER. 

2 Referring to the departure of one of Sir Charles Halle's eldest sons 
for South Africa. 



FROM MR. LUDWIG STRAUS, 1888 341 

CIV 

FROM MR. LUD\VIG STRAUS 
(Translated from the German} 

Manchester: January ], 1888. 

Dear Mr. Halle, You asked me if I could not tell you 
verbally what I wished to write to you. 

I strove hard to do so when I drove home with you from 
the Concert Hall rehearsal, but it would not pass my lips. 
But it is my duty not to leave you in ignorance, and to 
make the matter known to you in time, so as to enable you 
to make the necessary arrangements. 

It is a greater pain to me than I can express, to sever a 
connection l that has been so full of artistic and personal 
satisfaction. During the sixteen years that I have had the 
honour of working under your baton, I found in you not only 
a master, to whom I looked up with pride, and whose 
guidance it was ever a pleasure to follow, but also the 
kindest and most considerate of friends. With gratitude 
and satisfaction I look back upon the past much as we 
played Wagner and Berlioz, no discord ever disturbed our 
intercourse full of thankfulness and affection shall I remain 
so long as I have life. Never would it have occurred to me 
to leave an association that contented me so fully, had not 
my health, during the past three years, ber-ri so uncertain, 
and nay joints so unmannerly as to protest energetically 
against the continuance of my former activity. 

The doctor says, and I have long felt, that the sudden 
changes from a hot concert-room to a chase after a cold 
railway compartment, and the fatigue consequent upon the 
combination of a Manchester and London life are no longer 
practicable for me. I must therefore restrict myself to 
London, where I shall hope still to have much musical and 
friendly intercourse with you, and that the sacrifice I make 

1 Mr. Ludwig Straus was leader of my father's orchestra during 
sixteen years. 



342 LETTERS 

and the avoidance of exposure and exertion may keep within 
bounds the threatened recurrence of acute rheumatism. 

I shall earnestly and faithfully fulfil the obligations of 
this season alas, my last one with you and remain always, 
with all my heart, your grateful and true 

LUDWIG STRAUS. 

CV 

TO MR. LUDWIG STRAUS 

{Translated from tlie German') 

January 2, 1SSS. 

Deal 1 Mr. Straus, What can I answer you ? Although 
you had occasionally given me hints which caused me sad 
forebodings, I feel to-day as if a totally unexpected blow had 
fallen upon me, and I feel it deeply ! 

Your state of suffering touched me too nearly, and has 
moved me too deeply, to allow me to make any attempt to 
induce you to reconsider your decision ; but its consequence 
will be to rob me of a great part of the pleasure I took in 
my concerts. Yoit must know this yourself, for you know 
how closely you have been identified with my musical life. 
That I shall not lose your faithful friendship I know right 
well, but the cessation of our constant collaboration will 
create a sense of loneliness in me that I can never hope to 
lose. Your kindly expressions of friendship 1 may say of 
attachment have moved me deeply, and I shall keep your 
letter as a precious memento. To me also it is more than 
satisfactory to be able to say that never during the long 
course of years has the slightest shade of discord arisen 
between us. 

I really feel this too keenly to be able to write at length, 
and must wait until we meet to say more. If you know me 
well and I dare hope you do you will understand how it 
is with me. 

In true friendship I remain, 

Ever yours, 

C. HALLE. 



TO GEORG LICHTENSTEIN, 1888 343 



TO MR. LICHTENSTEIN 

January 30, 1888. 

My dear Liechtenstein, The article about Heller 1 is very 
good. The annuity gave him close on 300/. a year ; his 
latter days were therefore free from financial care. No time 
for more. 

Ever yours, 

C. HALLE. 

CVII 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hotel d'Angleterre, Rome : 

April 8, 1889. 

... To speak of what we see here is impossible ; there is 
too much, and the impressions are too strong. What strikes 
me is the amazing number of things that have been discovered 
since 1870, and the changes in the Forum, Coliseum, &c., 
&c., through the recent excavations. It is wonderful to 
think that when we were last here some of the most beautiful 
statues in the Vatican were still buried underground. What 
may not be hidden still ! 

The weather, I am sorry to say, is atrocious ; rain, rain 
arid cold, is the order of the day. 

The principal things we have seen already are : St. 
Peter's, half of the Vatican, the Coliseum, Pantheon, the 
Capitol with its two museums, the Forum Romanum, Forum 
Trajanum, Temple of Vesta, San Paolo fuori le mure, a lot 
of triumphal arches, the Trevi and other fountains, and so on 
and on. The hotel is very comfortable and the service 
excellent. We have a remarkable guide quite a character 
who boasts of intimate acquaintance with Cardinal Man- 
ning, Prince Jerome, the King, and a few other small people. 
Thanks to him we saw the King, the Queen, and the Crown 

1 Heller died on January 14, 1888. 



344 LETTERS 

Prince drive in three different carriages yesterday, as lie knows 
their habits. We also visited the Quirinale yesterday, with 
its gorgeous but very stiff and cold rooms. Altogether we 
are not idle, and we shall have more to tell when we come 
home than to write now, for which there is hardly time. 

Let me know when you return to London ; and when 
you are there please get a good piano at once, for I shall 
have to practise like a slave from the first day of my arrival. 

Best love from both of us to all of you, great and small ! 



CVIII 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Rome : April 10, 1889. 

Yesterday has been the worst day, rain from morning till 
night, but, nevertheless, we have seen many beautifal things 
and enjoyed ourselves. Mr. Bliss, for whom we had a letter 
from Lady Herbert (through Mrs. Grimshawe), took us 
through a part of the Vatican which is not generally shown, 
the Archives, Library, and Christian Museum, in which are 
splendid paintings by Pinturicchio, especially in what are 
called the Borgia rooms, and he showed us also an old, 
precious MS. life of St. George, with wonderful illustrations 
by Giotto. AVe were there hours, and took Miss Goodwin 
with us, who was most grateful. After luncheon I went to 
see Lord Dufferin. I saw the Bishop of Trebizond also, who 
had been away, and he will try to help us to an audience with 
the Pope, but there will be no chance until after Easter. 

We meant to go to Naples to-day and had secured rooms 
in the Grand Hotel, when yesterday evening some people 
from Dublin, who knew both of us and who had returned 
from Naples the same day, told us there had been four cases 
of typhoid fever in the hotel, one of which had ended fatally 
on Monday. You can imagine that I countermanded the 
rooms at once. I have now telegraphed to the Bristol Hotel, 
the one high up in the healthiest situation, and if I get a 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1889 345 

favourable answer we shall go to-morrow. Naples seems to 
be crammed. 

Newton is here also ; I had a chat with him yesterday. 

And now we shall set to work again, so I send you our 
united love. 

CIX 

TO THE SAME 

Hotel Bristol, Naples: April 14, 1889. 

Your, Louisa's and Anna's dear letters reached me yester- 
day evening and were none the less welcome for being late. 
All your good wishes do me good and I thank you heartily 
for them. May it do you good also to know that I am 
supremely happy, and feel as if I had nothing more to desire 
in this world. 

We left Rome on Thursday afternoon, arrived here at 
about seven o'clock (Italian railways are punctual now), found 
good rooms, with a view upon Vesuvius and Capri and all the 
rest of it, and had the pleasure of a good reception from the 
smoking mountain, which showed a great deal of deep red at 
regular intervals, so regular that milady for a long time would 
maintain we saw a huge revolving light. On Friday we 
spent the greater part of the day at the Museum, which seems 
to me more interesting than ever, and afterwards touk a drive 
over the Pausilippo and back by Virgil's Tomb and the 
Chiaja, which was fall of carriages of every description ; it 
was most delightful. Yesterday we spent the day at Pompeii. 
The weather was beautiful, and we were both in raptures. It 
is and remains the most wonderful place in the world, and 
you have no idea how much has been brought to light since 
we were here last. One house, which has been unearthed for 
the German Emperor, contains most remarkable pictures, 
fresh as if painted yesterday. Another, laid bare only a fort- 
night ago, has garlands of flowers, fruits, with lizards and 
birds, painted upon a black ground, too delicious for words ! 
There is one little bird, pecking at a grape, before which we 



346 LETTERS 

stood and could not tear ourselves away. In the evening we 
had a thunderstorm, which we did not mind, as we go to 
roost before ten o'clock to recover from the fatigues of the 
day ; but this morning there is another with rain and hail, 
and that is much more serious, for probably we shall be unable 
to do anything but go to the Museum again, which, however, 
we could only half finish on Friday, so there would be no 
harm in that, provided it cleared up afterwards, which, un- 
fortunately, seems doubtful. 

I have not told you that on Wednesday afternoon in Rome 
we took a drive into the Campagna to see two extraordinary 
tombs, which I do not think you saw. They are wonderfully 
preserved, with remarkable pictures and decorations. On 
returning, we crossed another carriage, heard shouts, and 
who should jump out but Hamilton Ai'de, Schuster, and 
Crawshay ! You can imagine that we had a long chat. 
They came from Naples, and Ai'de and Schuster were to leave 
the next day for Florence. Crawshay has a house in Borne. 

The next morning old Newton came with a message from 
Mrs. Story, asking us to an afternoon tea with Mrs. Cyril 
Flower and Mrs. Eliot Yorke, but, of course, we could not 
accept, as we were leaving at one o'clock. We shall un- 
doubtedly see the Storys when we return. 

That is as much as I have to tell up to the present. 
When I return I shall be more eager for work again than 
ever, and shall enjoy the music amazingly. 

cx 

TO ONE OF HIS DAUGHTERS 

Hotel d'Angleterre, Rome : 

April 22, 1889. 

I will try to relate our fails el gestes since my last letter 
in the fewest words possible, for the weather is so splendid 
that one grudges the minutes spent indoors. 

On Friday afternoon we got to the station at Naples 
half an hour too soon, but found every carriage full of 



TO A DAUGHTER, 1889 347 

Italians, who had crammed in all their luggage with them. 
We were quite in despair, when a kind porter asked if we 
would like to travel in the Pullman Car, and then for a few 
francs we had a beautiful compartment to ourselves, and got 
comfortably to Rome without loss of luggage. 

Shortly after nine we were at the hotel, and found cards 
from Lord Wilton, who had called twice during the day, and 
came again half an hour after our arrival to invite us to 
dinner next day with Boehm and Lord Dufferin. (At Naples 
I received an invitation from the Lord Mayor of London to 
meet Lord Dufferin at dinner at the Guildhall. The world 
is really very small !) 

Boehm is staying at this hotel, and Lord Wilton at the 
' Europe,' close by. The dinner was very pleasant. 

Saturday we walked about and drove on Mount Pincio in 
the afternoon. Yesterday at 10 o'clock we went to High 
Mass at St. Peter's, which was sung by a Cardinal under the 
dome, not before the real high altar, but before one on the side 
of the crypt towards the entrance. The Papal Choir sang, 
and most beautifully, although the music was the reverse of 
sacred. After Mass the relics were shown from one of the 
balconies high up, all the people kneeling, and in fact the 
whole ceremony was most impressive. In the afternoon we 
saw a good many things, and at a quarter to five we heard 
Vespers at St. John Lateran's splendidly sung, the Bishop of 
Trebizond officiating. 

But this morning at 7.30 we were present think of that 
at the Pope's own Mass in the Vatican ! And we shall 
never forget it ! It was celebrated in the ' Salle du 
Consistoire,' a beautiful room, by the Pope in person, with- 
out music, of course, and lasted from 7.30 to 9 o'clock. He 
is very old and shaky, poor dear, and his voice is tremulous, 
but I never heard Mass said with such reverence and deep 
expression. It sounded as if he read it for the first time and 
was overwhelmed by its sublimity. The effect was in- 
describable. At the same time there was much simplicity 
about the whole act ; no show of cardinals, &c., &c. ; there 



348 LETTERS 

were only a few priests with him, and of course some Swiss 
Guards, whose costume is much spoilt by their having 
adopted the German Pickelhaube.' 

When we came back to the hotel we were very glad to 
have breakfast, lor we had got up between five and six o'clock, 
and were at the Vatican punctually at seven, having had 
nothing to eat. 

Since then we have seen that wonderful villa ' Farnesina,' 
with Raphael's Galatea, and other marvels, the Palazzo 
Corsini, the Church of St. Cecilia in Trastevere, and this 
evening we shall see the Coliseum lighted up with Bengal 
fires. In fact, we live in Fairyland ! 

CXI 

TO A FRIEND 

Manchester: February 26, 1890. 

My dear , I have been so terribly busy the last few 

days that I could not find a moment to write to you. Your 
last letter naturally interested me very much, and the 
Edinburgh outcry against me highly amused me. In the end 
people will see that I could not give up the Reid Festival with- 
out telling them the reason. Had I not done so, they would 
have imagined all sorts of reasons except the right one viz., 
the bad attendance at the concerts. You know how often 
during the past three years I have spoken to you about the 
empty benches, and I should not have gone to Edinburgh 
this year had it not been the double jubilee. Now the public 
know the reason the only reason of my staying away, and 
with that I am content. For the rest, I said no word about 
' want of appreciation,' or of want of love for music, as you 
yourself can testify. That has been gratuitously attributed 
to me. I contented myself with the simple facts, and could 
not possibly add ' thanks for the bad attendance ! ' I now 
know that during the last few years the Professor contributed 
towards the expenses. When I wrote I felt sure of it, but 



FROM MR. LUDWIG STRAUS, 1894 349 

had no positive proof. Can any one under such circumstances 
expect me to come again ? 

Also I cannot regret that I pounced upon the critics. 
They deserved it too richly, and one cannot always let them 
have the last word. That I had to attack your friend I am 
sorry for ; but why did your friend never think into what 
a false position he put you through his ignorance and 
impudence ? For your sake I am glad to have said what I 
did say, and on this point to have separated you from his 
stupidity. The frame of mind of such a man, who out of 
pure ignorance would, as it were, spit upon a work of art as 
divine as the Apollo Belvidere or the Venus of Milo, will ever 
remain incomprehensible to me. Respect for art, and the 
greatest masterpieces, I expect from every man, and from a 
so-called critic especially, and above all that the critic should 
have some knowledge of what to all men of the craft is irre- 
futable. Most likely the man in question never heard that 
both concertos, the E flat and the violin concerto, 1 stand at 
an unattainable height. Oh, thou rhinoceros ! 

Why did you not educate him better ? Warn him for his 
own sake. 

But let us leave the Edinburghers alone, and let me rather 
ask you once again if you cannot come to one of my Man- 
chester concerts ? On March 6 we give ' Faust.' Make an 
escapade for once and come. It will give us great pleasure, 
and the performance will interest you very much. Write 
soon, and with kind regards to your ladies, believe me, ever 

Your old friend, 

CHARLES HALL& 

CXII 

FROM MR. LUDWIG STRAUS 
(Translated from the German) 

Cambridge: March 29, 1894. 

Dear Sir Charles, Among the noble-hearted friends and 
artists who have united to honour and distinguish me, I read, 
1 By Beethoven. 



350 LETTERS 

though not in black on white, your caro nome. I am com- 
pelled, in the fulness of my heart, to thank you for your 
friendly sentiments, and for lending the power of your 
name to the twice ' seven before Thebes,' or rather, before 
Cambridge. Your noble wife brought the united beautiful 
gift, imbedded in a wealth of lovely red and yellow roses and 
wonderful lilies of the valley. 

Our common labours, stretching over so many years, in 
the realms of symphony and chamber music came vividly to 
my mind, as well as the many pleasant hours we had spent 
together. 

If only you had not been the terrible Pontifex Maximus 
of ' sixty-six,' who, daring so many railway journeys, had so 
unmercifully treated me, poor neophyte ! 

Keep me ever in your good and friendly thoughts, and 
let me thank yon again for your participation in this beautiful 
artists' demonstration. 1 With all my heart, ever yours, 

LUDWIG STRAUS. 

CXIII 

TO MR. LUDWIG STRAUS 
( Translated from, the German) 

Greenhcys, Manchester: April ], 1894. 

My dear Mr. Straus, Your very kind letter stirred me 
deeply and awoke many delightful recollections. Those were 
happy times we spent together, adorned with how much 
artistic pleasure, and never shadowed by the slightest cloud ! 
Our modest gift has the only merit of proving that your 
comrades think of you, and in what high esteem they hold 
you. As such a proof you will value it. 

My wife, who happens to be here, has told me many 



1 Fourteen artist-friends and colleagues of Mr. Straus had given him 
on the occasion of his retirement a silver tea service and tray ; on the tray 
the fourteen signatures of the donors, Lady Halle, Joachim, Paderewski, 
Piatti, my father, &c., were engraved infac-simile. 



TO MR. LUDWIG STRAUS, 1894 351 

pleasant things of you, and the pleasantest of all was that she 
found you so much better. Your kind letter awakened a 
longing for a good long game of ' sixty-six,' with a cigar- 
accompaniment not taking into consideration that I have 
to revenge myself for many defeats and I hope you will 
soon allow me to seek you out in your home. I shall have a 
fortnight's holiday on the 14th of April, which I shall spend 
in London, and I shall take the liberty of proposing a day to 
you. It will certainly do us both good to have a real long 
chat together. 

Greet Fraulein Ida for me, and believe me with the old, 
tried friendship, yours, CHARLES HALLE. 

CXIV 

FROM MR. LUDWIG STRAUS 

Cambridge : April 4, 1894. 

Dear Sir Charles, I was heartily pleased to see your 
handwriting again and to learn how kindly you are mindful 
of me. 

I am leading a life of idleness, and have not made suffi- 
cient progress in the eating of macaroni to thoroughly master, 
or enjoy, the dolce far niente. I can still blow the cigar- 
smoke into the air, and still remember the difficulties of 
' sixty-six' : to secure the safety of the ten. 

' Batti, Batti,' but come, and thus give great pleasure to 
your old, true friend, LUDWIG STRAUS. 

I am longing for a line to say what day you can propose. 

CXV 

TO MR. LUDWIG STRAUS 

(Translated from the German) 

London : April 18, 1894. 

My dear Straus-gral, 1 Who could resist ? I shall arrive 
at 12.30 on the 23rd and ready for anything ! 

1 This mode of address is evidently an allusion to their studies of Par- 
sifal. 



352 LETTERS 

Your promises of 40 l and so on remind me of Moliere 
and his doctor, who promised him thirty years of life if he 
would obtain for him a certain favour from the king. Moliere 
answered : ' Mon bon docteur, je serai amplement recompense 
si vous ne me tuez pas.' Just so ; I may say to you that I 
shall be pleased if I come out of the fray with a whole skin, 
but I am ready for the fray. 

So farewell till Monday. Your old and faithful friend, 

CHARLES HALLI';. 

1 A term in the game of sixty-six. 



DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 



i 

EXTRACTS FROM DIARY KEPT BY SIR CHARLES HALL& 
IN THE YEARS 1855-6 

[Translated from the German.'} 

December 12, 1855. 

Eehearsal at the Concert Hall in the evening. Haydn's B 
Major Symphony, Overture, Ossian, Gade, the second move- 
ment of Berlioz's Symphony, ' Harold in Italy ' (' Marche des 
Pelerins '), and a triumphal march by Best, for next week's 
concert. Tolerably satisfied with the orchestra, but still 
further convinced of the necessity of the intended reforms. 
Gade's overture is pretty and shows good intentions, but is 
wanting in strength and in breadth of idea. In the present 
dearth, however, its appearance must be accepted with thank- 
fulness. Berlioz's movement carried me back to the dear old 
days, and therefore, perhaps, gave me exceptional pleasure. 
But how fresh, even at the present day, is the old master's, 

Haydn's, Symphony ! 

December 18, 1855. 

The necessity of engaging a trumpet-player for to-morrow 
evening's concert took me to the theatre, where a pantomime 
rehearsal was going on. Knowles, in his usual abrupt 
manner, spoke to me of a plan which certainly deserves con- 
sideration. He proposed that I should ask the committee of 
the New Free Trade Hall if, and on what terms, they would 
let it to me for a year, or for a shorter or longer period, and 
that he and I should make use of it together. 

A A 



354 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

December 19, 1855. 

Molique arrived towards four o'clock and accompanied me 
in the evening to the Concert Hall. His presence fired the 
violinists, and altogether the performance was not unsatis- 
factory. The effect of the whole was marred by the laughable 
figure and manners of the singer, which were not redeemed 
by any artistic qualities. A clarinet concerto in A by Mozart 
was capitally played by our excellent clarinettist, Grosse. The 
composition, although by Mozart, is such a grandfatherly 
production and so lengthy that the finale had to be left out, 
not to try the patience of the public beyond endurance. Mr. 
Best had come from Liverpool to hear his march, and intro- 
duced himself to me after the concert, but it was impossible 
to find anything agreeable to say about his composition. 

December 20, 1855. 

To-day's concert, the third, was not quite so well attended. 
The approach of Christmas, the cold weather, and Jullien, 
who is performing his hocus-pocus for the first time at the 
theatre, were perhaps the reasons that militated against it. 
The programme was as follows : Quartet, C major, Mozart ; 
souata with violin, C minor, Beethoven ; pianoforte quartet, 
F minor, Mendelssohn ; violin duet, G minor, Spohr ; Bar- 
carolle, Friihlingsglaube and Erlking, Schubert and Liszt. 
Molique was very well disposed and played splendidly. The 
duet was played by him and his pupil Carrodus in a masterly 
fashion. The concert was quite satisfactory, with the excep- 
tion of the viola player, who caused us great anxiety. I was 
tolerably content with myself, but have often played better. 

December 21, 1855. 

Molique and Tolbecque left for London this morning at 
9 o'clock ; Lucas remained till 5. During the day I busied 
myself with the buying of Christmas presents, and in the 
evening the Christmas-tree arrived ; it is a stately one. 

December 22, 1855. 

The preparations for Christmas continue. The children 
are very busy on their side, and the whole house is full of 
secrets. M. is not quite well, but I hope she will be all right 



1855 355 

by Monday evening, so that we may be able to enjoy the 
feast in the old accustomed manner. 

December 23, 1855. 

Dined with Mr. Henry Higgins. After dinner, with 
him and Mr. Renshaw, we held an improvised meeting, 
under Higgins's presidency, upon the affairs of the Concert 
Hall, and brought them into order. My proposal and stipii- 
lation was that, instead of the irregular and approximate 
fortnightly rehearsals of two hours' duration, there should in 
future be one rehearsal the day before the concert, and of 
longer duration. The concerts must therefore be changed 
to Thursday, and dates fixed longer beforehand. Everything 
was willingly granted, whereupon I withdrew my resignation. 

Very busy in the evening decorating the Christmas-tree. 

December 24, 1855. 

The dear, familiar Christmas Eve made us all, great and 
small, very happy. The gifts to the children were rich, and 
their delight filled our hearts with joy. The children had 
again prepared a small tree for us in their school-room, 
and pleased us, moreover, with little gifts of needleAvork, 
drawings, and dear letters. Until 10 o'clock they revelled 
in their happiness, which was to begin anew the next 
morning. I received a nice present from Mr. Stern, 
the ' Conversation's Lexicon,' in twenty-three volumes, and 
Mendelssohn's ' Lieder ohne Worte,' beautifully bound, from 
an anonymous but well-known hand. I gave my wife a neat 
gold bracelet and necklace, which greatly pleased her. 

December 25, 1855. 

On this Christmas Day the children made closer 
acquaintance with their new treasures, and I, during the 
time, went over some new music. Gade's ' Spring Fantasia,' 
a very thoughtful and pleasing work. Schumann's ' Paradise 
and the Peri ' truly surprised and entranced me ; of all his 
works not one has so deeply interested me ; it has great 
poetic charm ; melody and harmony are new and very fine. 
It is a pity that the poem is somewhat monotonous, and 

A A 2 



356 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

must probably diminish, the effect of the music, because 
it requires too many slow tempi. Began Marschner's 

' Vampire.' 

December 26, 1855. 

Practised Molique's trio diligently, and continued 
Marschner's ' Vampire.' At the Concert Hall rehearsal in 
the evening I announced the renewal of my engagement to 
the members of the band, whicli was received with jubila- 
tion ; further, the changes in the regulations concerning the 
performances and rehearsals, which also met with approval. 
Afterwards, with the quartet alone, went through Berlioz's 
symphony, ' Harold in Italy,' and brought the three first 
movements to a satisfactory point. After the rehearsal I 
went to the first performance of the pantomime, ' St. George 
and the Dragon,' the unbounded stupidity of whicli annoyed 
me ; public taste in England is still rather backward. The 
performance of ' Elijah ' at the Concert Hall is fixed for 
January 22, and Banks's concert at Ashton-uiider-Lyne post- 
poned to the 23rd. 

December 27, 1855. 

Spent a few hours of the day very pleasantly ; Canon 
Toole (a Catholic priest), a very nice, enlightened, poetry 
and art-loving man, brought the children a big magic-lantern, 
and many interesting pictures were thrown upon a white 
sheet fastened to the wall. Before Canon Toole left us, 
a remark about Shelley led to a theological discussion between 
him and Miss C. What a sharp contrast an unbeliever and 

a Catholic priest ! 

December 28, 1855. 

Finished reading Marschner's ' Vampire.' The work con- 
tains many beauties, and exceeds in true worth many of 
Meyerbeer's operas which enjoy such a far greater celebrity. 
It is to be regretted that so many of the incidents seem, 
copied from the ' Freischiitz.' 

Piatti writes that his wife is better, and he hopes to be 
able to come on Wednesday. Received a letter from Chester ; 
they do not want a Beethoven Sonata for their concert on 
January 2, but something lighter. 



1855 357 

December 29, 1855. 

An article in the Manchester Guardian, under the title, 
' Mr. Halle and the Concert Hall,' speaks of the new regula- 
tions which I made known to the orchestra. The directors 
most likely will not approve of this publicity, but it is neces- 
sary and useful for the whole institution. The Guardian also 
draws attention to Molique's trio. 

Began to write the score of Mehul's G minor Symphony. 
The work seems fresh and interesting. 

For some time past I have read a great part of Schlosser's 
' Welt-Geschichte,' and have much enjoyed the solid worth 
of the work ; the craving after knowledge and learning has 
strongly revived in me ; I thirst for a quiet time when I can 
better satisfy my longing for reading. 

December 31, 1855. 

The last day of the year ; a day on which there was little 
work to do, I spent it quietly and cosily in the midst of my 
family. Made music, and read a good deal. In the evening 
delighted the children very much by making them some weak 
punch before they went to bed, and making them drink the 
health of their grandmamma, their parents, and their aunts. 
The few hours before midnight I spent in alternately reading 
Schlosser and conversing with my wife, and so peacefully and 

quietly ended the year. 

January 1, 1856. 

At midnight peacefully and contentedly greeted the New 
Year with a glass of punch. The children were all quietly 
wrapped in slumbers free from care ; we parents went the 
rounds to give them each a first loving New Year's kiss. The 
past year has brought us many joys and much good, and has 
had few shadows : may the coming one be as favourable. 
Seldom has the looking back been so pleasant, and though 
there have been many cares, they are none of them dis- 
couraging. 

January 2, 185(5. 

Started for Chester at 8.45, and went to the Royal Hotel. 
At 1 1 looked up Mr. Gunton to talk over the performance 
of the ' Messiah,' which must take place without a rehearsal. 



358 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

Mr. Gunton is organist at Chester, and in the absence of an 
orchestra had undertaken to accompany the ' Messiah ' on the 
organ. Upon my natural inquiry as to whether the chorus 
was safe, I received the surprising answer that he had never 
heard them ; so that conductor, chorus, solo-singers and 
organist for a great performance met for the first time in 
the hall, and at the moment of commencing the concert ! 
Nevertheless even-thing went well ; the chorus was excellent 

/ O 

(from Liverpool), the organist also, the solo-singers, Madame 
lludersdorff, Miss Messent, Miss Dolby, Mr. Lockey, and 
Mr. Thomas altogether left very little to be desired, and so 
the conducting was not unpleasant. A young bass-singer, 
Cuzner, made his debut in the air ' Why do the Nations,' 
and gave proof of a good voice. After the morning concert 
wandered through the quaint old town, and visited the famous 
cathedral, where the carved wood-work of the choir is specially 
remarkable. In the streets the arcades over the foot-ways 
struck me most. At the evening concert I played Liszt's 
1 Lucia,' Caprice in E by Mendelssohn, ' La Truite ' by 
Heller (as an encore, impromptu by Chopin) ; two ' Lieder 
ohne Worte' by Mendelssohn, and a waltz by Chopin. 

January 3, 185(5. 

Left Chester at 9.10 and reached home at half-past 11, 
where I found Molique and Piatti waiting for me ; both 
had arrived the previous evening. The concert was very 
gratifying, and gave me personally great enjoyment. Pro- 
gramme. Trio, Beethoven, Op. 70, No. 2 ; sonata with 
violoncello in A, Op. 69, Beethoven; trio in F, Op. 52, 
Molique ; Souvenir d'Ems, Romanza, and ' Les Fiances,' 
petit caprice for 'cello, Piatti ; Serenade, Op. 56, Heller, and 
Mazurkas in B, F minor, and C, Chopin. Beethoven's two 
magnificent works were played as perhaps we had never 
played them before ; Molinue's new trio is highly interesting, 
and made a deep impression. Molique was recalled, and 
the dear good man was as much moved by the affection with 
which we had played his wo^k as by its reception by the 
public. For me it will always ; emain a pleasant recollection 



1856 359 

that I have, so to speak, brought this trio to light. Piatti's 
little solos were, as usual, played in masterly style. I, too, 
was satisfied with my playing, in spite of a little slip of 
memory in Heller's Serenade. Both friends left for London 
at 4 A.M. Piatti was anxious about his wife, and Molique 
went to bear him company. I sought my bed at 1 o'clock, 
very tired. 

January 4, 1856. 

The Guardian and the Examiner have very laudatory 
articles on the concert, especially on Molique's trio, so that 
the apprehended danger that unfamiliarity with the work 
might cause dissatisfaction with it, and thus affect its recep- 
tion in London, is happily averted. Set my library in order, 
and sent a quantity of books and music to Anderson, the 
bookbinder. In the evening continued to write the score of 
Mehul's symphony, and busied myself choosing the works 
for the next concert. 

Put the last touch to the corrections of the first twelve 
sonatas by Beethoven for the new edition. 

January 5, 1856. 

To-day's Athenaeum attacks Jenny Lind pretty severely 
for her rendering of the solos in the ' Messiah ; ' Chorley's 
personal likes and dislikes seem to have an influence upon 
his pen, without his will or knowledge. Wrote some more 
of Mehul's symphony ; the first movement is half finished ; 
the ideas are fresh and noble ; but the workmanship and 
power are not very interesting, but somewhat trivial. 

January 6, 1856. 

Ella writes that he wishes to give some lectures on music 
in Manchester ; he seems to have already entered into the 
matter with Mr. Andrews, who referred him to me. I have 
promised to use my influence, and have asked for more 
particulars. Busy with a mass of correspondence that had 
got into arrears. Mr. Banks, who came to inquira about 
the programme for his coming concert, told me he had heard 
Jenny Lind in the c Messiah ' at Liverpool ; according to him 



360 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

she has fallen off, and the applause, though still great, was 
not to be compared with the enthusiasm of former days. 

January 7, 1856. 

For the next concert I have chosen the sonata by 
Beethoven, Op. 27, No. 2, never yet played by me in public, 
and am working hard at it. Spohr's trio in F will also be 
given, and require some preparation. 

Have finished the fourth volume of Schlosser's ' Welt- 
Geschichte,' thus terminating the history of the old world, 

which was rich in enjoyment. 

January 8, 1856. 

Have finished the sketch of the programme for four private 
concerts to be given during the winter months, and have sent 
it to Mr. Higgins for perusal ; it contains much that is new 
and interesting, and I shall be pleased if it is accepted, 
although I have prepared much hard work for myself by it. 
Ella writes that he has already given up the intention of 
giving musical lectures in Manchester. He has not yet 
decided to give concerts before Easter, and maintains that 
everything in London is at a standstill, except Jenny Lind, 
who seems to monopolise the public. 

Have written to Molique to consult him as to the best 
construction for the new platform that is to be erected in the 
Free Trade Hall. 

January 9, 1856. 

Began the Andante of Mehul's symphony, which seems 
to be very simple. 

Busied myself with the analysis of Spohr's trio in F, and 
the Beethoven sonata. 

Began to read about the Arabs in Schlosser. 

January 10, 1856. 

Chappell, the publisher, has at last consented to allow my 
new edition of Beethoven's sonatas to proceed in chronological 
order, instead of in the arbitrary order, or rather disorder, 
of Moscheles' edition. I have commended him much for it. 
The analysis of Spohr's trio for the next programme is 
finished and sent to the printer. 



1856 361 

January 11, 1856. 

Have half finished a long letter to my mother, which will 
give her great pleasure, as it contains a full description of 
our Christmas doings. The children had an invitation to 
Professor Scott's, 1 but were kept at home by the cold weather, 
so after dinner I consoled them by playing with them for a 
whole hour -building palaces, lighthouses, and such like with 
their little wooden bricks. In the evening I worked at the 
symphony, and practised. A duet for piano and violin upon 
' William Tell,' by Osborne and de Beriot, which I shall have 
to play next week with Mr. Cooper, vividly reminded me of 
a soiree at Madame Huet's fifteen years ago, when I played 
it with Alard. 

The thought of going once again to Paris and playing at 
the Conservatoire has greatly occupied my mind to-night. 

January 12, 185G. 

Augusta Gathy writes from Paris asking for biographical 
notes for an article on me in his ' Musical Lexicon.' He con- 
gratulates me upon the situation I have won in England. 

In the evening worked hard at Mchul's Andante, so as to 
be rid of it, as my interest in the work begins to diminish. 

January 15, 185G. 

Left for Wakefield at 12.40. Before starting I bought 
a good edition of the ' Vicar of Wakefield,' and by its 
perusal changed an otherwise tedious day into a very pleasant 
one. The place itself is most prosaic, dark, and smoky, as 
are all English manufacturing towns, and in no way answers 
nowadays to Goldsmith's description. I arrived at 4 o'clock 
and went to the Strafford Arms a very old-fashioned building, 
with old-fashioned management and service. I .met there 
Mr. Perring and Mr. Wynn, who take part, like me, in 
to-night's concert. They are both indifferent singers, but 
possessed of a certain amount of instruction, and very much 
in earnest. The givers of the concert Mr. Cooper and Miss 
Milner only want talent to make them very good artists. 
The concert took place at 8 o'clock at the Exchange Rooms 

1 Principal of Owens College. 



362 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

a large hall with good acoustic, and before a large audience. 
My share of the programme consisted of Osborne and de 
Beriot's duet, the Finale of Lucia, by Liszt, Caprice in 
E Major, by Mendelssohn, and Heller's Truite (as an encore, 
Lied okne Worte in A, by Mendelssohn), variations from 
Beethoven's Kreutzer Sonata, and an impromptu and two 
waltzes by Chopin. The appreciation of the public, among 
whom was the former celebrated singer, Miss Wood, was flat- 
tering. The first duet, however, did not go well at all. After 
the concert I took a stroll through the principal streets of 
Wakefield, and returned to the hotel, where I had a tolerably 

long conversation with Mr. Perring. 

January 16, 1856. 

Finished the ' Vicar of Wakefield ' in bed this morning, 
and therefore rose late. At 12.30 started for Leeds in com- 
pany with Mr. Perring and Mr. Wynn. The programme 
was identical with that of last evening. I had even greater 
success than the day before, and after Chopin's Waltz had to 
play two Mazurkas (in B and C Major). An Erard piano 
was sent to both places for me. During the day I went to 
an exhibition of French paintings, and was specially struck 
by the powerful conception and vigorous execution of Rosa 
Bonheur's picture of the Horse Fair. The grouping of the 
spirited, snorting horses is wonderful, and there reigns a 
mighty lifelikeness in the whole work. Very remarkable is the 
new, nearly completed, town hall a building that does honour 
to the town of Leeds, and that will have few rivals in England. 

Bought a fine-bound Virgil (in Latin) with the date of 
1548, also an English translation of Juvenal and Persius. 

January 17, 1856. 

Left Leeds at 7.20 and arrived at Greenheys towards 
10 o'clock. Piatti and Sainton arrived at 3 o'clock, and we 
began the rehearsal for to-n ight's concert at once. Programme : 
Trio in F, Op. 123, Spohr; Sonata quasi Fantasia, Op. 27, No. 2, 
Beethoven ; trio in B, Op. 97, Beethoven ; Variations d la 
Monferine, piano and violoncello, Hummel ; Morceau de Salon,. 
violin in D, Sainton. The trio in B gave us special pleasure, 



1856 363 

and made a great impression on the public, as also did the 
Sonata, which I played with a little hesitation. During the 
concert we were pleasantly surprised by a little supper of 
oysters and champagne, arranged by some friends. Heron, 
the Town Clerk, presided at it. Piatti and Sainton left again 
at 4 A.M. After the concert we entertained ourselves for a 
1 ime with the game of cannonade. 

January 18, 185G. 

Very busy the whole day, so that I felt the fatigue of the 
previous day's exertions doubly. Dinner at Mrs. Grundy's, 
where I met Professor Scott and his wife, with the poet C. 
Swain, and spent a very interesting evening. Some little 
pieces I played to them were gratefully welcomed. 

January 19, 185(5. 

In the few free moments my pupils left me I practised 
hard the duet for piano and viola on themes from ' The 
Huguenots,' by Thalberg and de Beriot, as I have to play it 
next week at the concert with Mr. Blagrove. Very unpleas- 
ing and uncongenial work, which I have to force myself to. 
In the evening choral rehearsal at the Concert Hall for 
the ' Elijah ' which takes place next Tuesday. In precision 
of intonation the chorus leaves much to be desired, but I 
have tried to give them an idea of the importance of nuances, 
and in this I have partly succeeded. At any rate, they have 
become more attentive. But, so long as the chorus does not 
have regular practice, good results cannot be expected. To 
this end, let us hope, the new Free Trade Hall will soon 
contribute. 

January 20, 1856. 

A letter from Molique, with a very good plan for the 
building of the orchestra in the Free Trade Hall. I am 
entirely satisfied with it, and hope to get it adopted. Sainton 
writes he can accept an engagement at the Concert Hall for 
February 21. I offered an engagement, through Molique, 
for the same date, to Miss Leusden, recommended to me by 
Hiller. She seems to be a very good contralto. Mr. and 
Mrs. Troost and Mr. Kyllmann visited us in the morning. 



364 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

The latter criticised the too rapid speed of the tempo of the 
Finale of the Beethoven Sonata at the last concert, and he 
may have been right. 

At 3 o'clock I dined with the Charles Souchays, and 
spent a most agreeable afternoon. A noble and intellectual 
family, such as one rarely finds. During dinner, among 
other things, much talk of the pleasantness of the life in 
many parts of Germany, and the beauties of my birthplace, 
which they knew by report, were sung by me. Later, I 
played some short, delicious pieces of Heller's, which led to 
some very interesting conversation. A letter from Mendels- 
sohn was read, in which he expresses the opinion that words 
are vague, and capable of many interpretations, whilst music 
renders feelings with precision. Against this there is very 
much to say. Altogether, the letter seems to me more in- 
genious than true. Then Heine was much talked of, and I 
had many anecdotes to tell of our former close acquaintance- 
ship in Paris. When the conversation turned upon painting, 
Mrs. Souchay asserted an opinion, against which I protested, 
that a painter can only reproduce the impression of what he 
has actually observed in nature. For instance, he could only 
paint the sorrow on a human countenance that he had really 
seen there. 

January 21, 1856. 

Worked again at that fatal Thalberg duet, and looked 
more closely through the three Schumann trios, in order to 
choose one for the next concert. The third seems to be the 
best. 

In the evening choral and orchestral rehearsal of Elijah.' 
Of the solo singers only Miss Birch put in an appearance. 
The chorus did better, and the orchestra was really good, 
and so the performance promises to be satisfactory. 

January 22, 185G. 

Went to Mr. Blagrove in the morning to arrange for a 
rehearsal for this afternoon, and then to Mr. Peacock to lay 
the plan for the orchestra before him, which met with his 



1856 365 

entire approval. We went together to the new building, 
which is pretty well advanced, and I was much surprised by 
the size and beauty of the different rooms. But it seems to 
me that in the great hall the space allowed for the orchestra 
is too small, and especially is it to be feared that the desire 
of gain, or, at any rate, of material profit, will not be brought 
into accord with the necessary arrangements for real artistic 
purposes. 

The performance of the ' Elijah ' this evening was in many 
respects satisfactory, though the soloists left something to be 
desired. According to old-established custom, the public 
gave no sign of approval throughout, which naturally was 
not encouraging to the performers. 

January 23, 1856. 

The concerts that have lately taken place in the surround- 
ing towns have given me the notion of attempting a so-called 
tournee myself, and I have already written to Sainton and 
Piatti about terms. 

At G in the evening started with Miss Poole, Miss 
Manning, Miss Wilkinson (a young pupil of Garcia's), Mr. 
Blagrove, Mr. Frank Bodda, and Banks in an omnibus from 
the Mozley Arms Hotel for Ashton-under-Lyne for a concert. 
This was largely attended by a somewhat raw and unintelli- 
gent public ; the reaction upon me was such as to make me 
very dissatisfied with my playing, and altogether I could not 
work myself up to concert pitch. We returned in the same 
omnibus, and I reached home very tired at midnight, and 
with the fear that the Broadwood piano I had sent there 
might be injured by the dampness of the hall. 

January 24, 1856. 

The programme of to-day's concert in Bury was the exact 
counterpart of last night's. The public quite as numerous, 
but very intelligent and appreciative. I have seldom played 
better ; my pieces the same as last evening : Beethoven's 
Sonata in C. Op. 53, Thalberg and de Beriot, Heller's Truite, 
and the Finale of Lucia by Liszt. The duet pleased so well 
that part of it had to be repeated, and after Liszt's Fantasia 



366 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

I had to play Mendelssohn's ' Volks ' and ' Friihling's Lied ' 
as an encore. The whole evening, as well as the drive there 
and back, was very pleasant, and reconciled me to the whole 

undertaking. 

January 25, 185(3. 

Sainton writes that he usually gets 30 guineas a week 
during a toimiee, and leaves it to me to decide what I shall 
give him ; this would be very acceptable, but the project 
cannot be realised before the coming season as it requires too 
much preparation, for which I cannot spare the time. We 
shall see later on. Piatti sent an undecided answer. 

Third concert to-night ; at Cheetham, in the new Town 
Hall. Very empty room. The programme the same as last 

night and the night before. 

January 26, 18.5(5. 

Studied the second Schumann trio (F major) and Heller's 
' Wanderstunden ' and ' Nuits Blanches ' for the next concert, 
and the last-named filled me with the intensest pleasure. 
Later went through some of Bach's Motets, which are to be 
tried next Monday at the St. Cecilia. 

January 27, 1S.">(> 

Worked at the analysis of Schumann's trio for the next 
concert, in which I proffered the opinion that the German 
element contained in Schumann's works, and which has some 
affinity with the spirit of Jean Paul, militates somewhat 
against a right understanding of them in other countries. 
Worked at the trio itself, as also on the little Heller things. 
Some of Schumann's ' Noveletten ' I played through with 

delight. 

January 28, 1856. 

Finished the analyses of the trio, and also of Beethoven's 
A minor Sonata, Op. 23, and took them both myself to Sever, 
who was greatly pleased with the first. Ordered at Mr. 
Hulme's a large mirror for our drawing-room as a surprise 
for my wife. 

The St. Cecilia was not well attended, most likely on 
account of the cold and bad weather ; the Bach Motets 
caused great interest, and promised us many pleasant hours. 



1856 3G7 

They will be studied with affectionate industry. After the 
meeting went with Mr. Hecht, Dr. Finckler, and Mr. Wydler 
to the Clarence, where we chatted agreeably for an hour or 
two. On the way back I asked Dr. Finckler to give me 
some lessons in Latin, and so fulfil a long-cherished wish, 
and we fixed next Friday evening for the first lesson. 

January 29, 1856. 

Worked diligently for the next concert. The trio by 
Schumann pleases me more and more. Also the Xoveletten. 
become clearer and dearer to me ; the ear becomes accustomed 
to some rather considerable harshness. An Etude by Kullak, 
' Les Arpe-ges,' I played through, which promises to be a 
brilliant and pleasing drawing-room piece. Went through 
some parts of Bach's Mass with astonishment and admiration. 
In the evening wrote a few pages of the score of Mozart's 
9th Concerto in G major. 

II 

EXTRACTS FROM DIARY KEPT DURING SIR CHARLES AND 
LADY HALLE'S FIRST TOUR IN AUSTRALIA IN 1890 

Wednesday, May 28, 1890. 

On Friday morning, the 16th, at about 9 o'clock, we 
arrived safe and sound at Williamstown, the port for Mel- 
bourne, and were met on board by Mr. and Mrs. Poole, Mr. 
Otter (in whom I recognised a former assistant at Chappell's, 
and also at Schott's), a representative of the Argus, and 
several other people. I received also a few letters of welcome, 
amongst which was one from Mr. Gurnett, my former pupil, 
and now musical critic of the Argus. The Captain went with 
us on shore, and we travelled together to Melbourne by rail, 
\vhich took us about three-quarters of an hour. Here the 
Captain put us into a queer-looking cab, into which we got 
from behind, and on the way to the hotel we drove first to the 
Custom-house, where the polite secretary, to whom I had a 
letter from Mr. Cashel Hoey, told me that he had given orders 
already on the previous day to pass all our luggage unex- 



3 08 DIARIES AXD NOTES OF TRAVEL 

amined. At the hotel we found our rooms ready for us. 
Wilma told me that whilst I was at the Custom-house our 
cabby had held a conversation with her through the open 
window, addressing ber at once as ' Milady,' and telling her 
he felt sure we should have a great success ; he would be proud 
to drive us to the concerts, and hoped that on our return to 
England ' You will speak well of MS,' meaning the public of 
Melbourne, himself included. At 1 o'clock the Captain called 
and took me to the head office of the P. and 0. Company, 
where the manager in the most obliging manner secured for 
our return journey the very best cabin on the Arcadia ; he 
also gave me a few good Manilla cigars, and offered me his 
further services in the most amiable wav. Our luffgao-e 

/ OO O 

arrived shortly after, minus a large box, which, however, 
turned up next day, having caused us much anxiety in the 
meanwhile. At 3 o'clock a deputation from the resident pro- 
fessional musicians presented us with an illuminated address ; 
other people called to welcome us; a very good semi-grand 
Bechstein was brought in from Allan's, the largest musical 
firm here, and at 7 o'clock the Captain came to dinner, and 
we spent a most enjoyable evening together. The next morn- 
ing I was interviewed by Mr. Hart, one of the staff of the 
Argus paper. Toole, who is staying at this hotel, paid us a 
visit, and offered us boxes for his theatre. Santley also came 
and told us of his disagreeable adventures. On Monday, the 
19th, at 4 o'clock, we were received officially by the Mayor 
and welcomed to Melbourne in the Town Hall. 

On Tuesday I left cards and letters at the Governor's, the 
Prime Minister's, and the Chancellor's of the University, and 
saw the two latter gentlemen. Thursday, the 22nd, the day of 
our first concert, we did not go out, and denied ourselves 
to all visitors. We dined at 3 o'clock, and drove to the 
Town Hall at a quarter to 8. We were rather curious 
to learn how the public would like us, and were glad to 

* ' o 

find a very full room, representing 243. 18s. Lord and 
Lady Hopetoun arrived punctually to the minute, the 
accompanist playing ' God Save the Queen ' vigorously on 



MELBOURNE, 1890 3G9 

the piano as they entered. "When they were seated I mounted 
the platform to play the Waldstein sonata, and was received 
with much and prolonged applause, which was renewed 
vehemently after each movement, and at the end I was recalled 
twice. Wilma's first piece, the ' Fantaisie Caprice,' created a 
perfect furore, and she was recalled four times. She was in 
excellent form, and I really believe that I never had heard her 
play so well, with such grace, such passion, such marvellous 
perfection, and such mastery. It was a thing to be remem- 
bered, and no wonder that the public was amazed. The whole 
concert was a grand triumph, and made us think that we are 
quite safe here. During the interval Lord Hopetoun came to 
speak to us, and was very amiable. He is almost a boy still, 
hardly twenty-eight, and seems lively. We had to promise 
him that we would dine at Government House on the follow- 
ing Sunday. The papers next morning sang our praises to 
the echo, and we collected them to send home. Saturday, 
the 24th, the Queen's Birthday, was very rainy and disagree- 
able. We received an invitation to Government House for 
9.30, and previous to that I dined with the Gurnetts to meet 
some of the principal musical men here. Mr. Otto Linden, a 
pianist, Herr Scherch, both with their wives, and several 
others, dined, and many more came immediately the dinner 
was over. Mr. Linden said a great deal about the advantages 
the whole profession had derived from my ' Practical Piano- 
forte' School,' which it seems has been adopted throughout 
Australia. 

At 9 o'clock I fetched Wilma and drove with her to 
Government House. The throne-room is really splendid, and 
the party was a brilliant one. Lady Hopetoun talked a long 
time with Wilma, and proved very charming, simple, and shy. 
We made many acquaintances, amongst others that of the 
Austrian Consul, Herr Carl Pinschoff, a most charming man 
and a true Viennese, a great friend of Brahms, and formerly 
of Wagner, having always lived in musical circles and married 
a singer, Mile. Widemann. 

Sunday, the 25th, we lunched with Sir William Clarke. 

B B 



370 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

There were a few more guests : Colonel Waddington, Aide- 
de-camp to the Governor, some others, and the captain of a 
sailing vessel, who proved to be from Manchester and a 
nephew of Sir James Watts ; I have forgotten his name. He 
told us that one of his passengers, a few days after leaving 
England, had gone raving mad, so that lie had to fasten him 
up. The laws of this country do not allow a madman to be 
landed, and so the captain does not know what to do with 
him, and fears he will be saddled with him for a long time. 
This house is a perfect marvel for the size and number of the 
entertaining rooms, and also for the number of admirable bed- 
rooms, which Lady Clarke showed us. But this is not to be 
wondered at, as they are amongst the very richest people in 
Australia. We dined with the Hopetouns, who were most 
amiable. We had great fun in the evening with a tame 
opossum, a very nice beast, and a curious parrot. Lady Hope- 
toun made us promise to lunch with her on Wednesday, when 
she would show ns her horses, her kangaroos, and her emus. 

The concert on Monday was very full, and our success 
greater than ever. On Tuesday evening the same crowd and 
the same most nattering success. Wilma gets heaps of the 
most beautiful baskets and bouquets of flowers, much to her 
delight, and when we drive home the whole carriage is full of 
flowers. 

Frichy, May 30, 1890. 

On Wednesday afternoon, after our luncheon with Lord 
and Lady Hopetoun, which was very agreeable, Wilma had a 
reception, and many people called so many, that at 6 o'clock 
she was quite exhausted. At Government House we had been 
much amused by the kangaroos and the three emus, the 
funniest beasts we ever saw. A lady has sent Wilma two 
emu eggs, very big and curious, as a souvenir from Melbourne. 
The concert yesterday, our fifth, was fuller than any of the 
others, the receipts exceeding 4001. There was not a place 
empty in the whole hall, even the platform being crowded, 
and much money was refused at the doors. It appears that 
the next one, to-morrow, will be equally crowded. All the 



MELBOURNE, 1890 371 

papers are most sweet ; we shall keep and take them home. 
This morning we were photographed. At 2 we received 
letters from England, as we had done on Friday, and were 

very happy. 

Saturday, May 31, 1890. 

To-day Mr. Poole brought me the instructions for the 
next fortnight. They are : June 4. Geelong ; 5th, Melbourne ; 
Gth, Ballarat; 7th, Melbourne; 10th, 12th, and 14th, Mel- 
bourne ; in the same week as the last three dates there will 
be a concert at Sandhurst, the date of which is not fixed yet. 
On the 19th we commence at Sydney, arriving there on the 
16th, so as to get two days' rest before beginning. The 
weather to-day is fine and warm. 

Tuesday, June 3, 1890. 

The conceit on Saturday was again crowded ; the plat- 
form had been made narrower, and thus about three rows of 
reserved seats gained, the first row being, nearly in its entirety, 
occupied by twenty blind people who were treated to the 
concert by Lady Clarke. After Wilma's first solo there came 
an extraordinary shower of bouquets down upon her ; half the 
platform was full of them, and it took several people to pick 
them up. After my last solo three very handsome bouquets 
were thrown at me also, with which I walked off proudly. 
On Sunday we took luncheon with the Austrian Consul. The 
day was "fine, and we walked to the railway station and took 
return tickets to Windsor, where he lives. We passed Rich- 
mond and other stations with well-known English names, and 
on arrival drove in a hansom to his house. His wife is on 
a visit to her mother in Vienna. He has two nice little 
daughters, of whom his sister-in-law takes care. The captain 
of the Sperber, a German man-of-war, Herr von Foss, took 
luncheon with us, and was very entertaining. He had 
taken Stanley and Emin Pasha to Zanzibar, and was at the 
banquet after which Emin walked out of the window instead 
of the door, and had his celebrated fall. The captain is a 
charming man of most polished manners. Two other gentle- 
men were there, nice people also. 

B B 2 



372 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

Thursday, June 5, 1890. 

Yesterday morning Captain Briscoe paid us a visit, to our 
great surprise ; he had only just arrived. He is to go to the 
concert with us this evening, and afterwards stay for supper. 
At 1.2-5 P.M. we left for Geelong, where we arrived at 3 ; 
were received by Mr. and Mrs. Poole, Otter and Rose, and 
drove to the ' Grand Coffee Palace.' Shortly after we had 
settled in our sitting-room a mouse descended by the window 
curtain and took up her quarters in a cottage piano, where 
later on we heard her rummaging amongst the wires. The 
view upon the harbour and the sea was rather fine. The 
concert at the Exhibition Theatre, a very draughty place, 
was crammed full, not a seat being vacant, and the applause 
was tumultuous. Geelong seems a very primitive place, and 
we had to walk through a long garden, into which carriages 
cannot enter, to get to the theatre. Fortunately, the weather 
was fine ; if it had been raining we could hardly have got 
there at all. We left again at 10.45 this morning and arrived 
at Melbourne at 12. To-morrow w r e have a concert at Ballarat, 
and on Saturday here again ; the one in Sandhurst is given 
up, or at all events postponed for the present. 

Tuesday, June 10, 1890. 

The concert on Thursday last was again satisfactory in 
every respect. Friday morning we left for Ballarat, the cele- 
brated gold-mining place. We arrived at 3 after a somewhat 
tedious journey through an uninteresting country, very thinly 
inhabited. Strange and weird-looking were a multitude of 
trees, bereft of all foliage and of all bark ; they are killed by 
an incision made near the ground, called bark-ringing, after 
which they die, and in a year's time fall to the ground, thus 
saving the trouble of felling them. We found Craig's Royal 
Hotel a very small place, but the eating was much better than 
we expected. Ballarat lies 1,500 feet higher than Melbourne, 
and is therefore somewhat colder. It is a beautiful town, with 
broad streets and fine clean houses, most of them surrounded 
by splendid gardens. The concert was a curious affair, the 



MELBOURNE, 1890 373 

house crammed to suffocation, in the cheaper places by crowds 
of miners who actually roared their applause. Unfortunately 
we had again much to suffer from draughts, the place being 
a theatre, and a rather dilapidated one ; I was most anxious 
on account of Wiltna, but fortunately she has not suffered 
much from it. On Saturday morning we left again at 
1 I o'clock, but before then the President of the Associated 
Miners (himself one of them) and the Inspector of Mines 
called to present Wilma with a little piece of gold, as a 
memorial of Ballarat, and they offered, if we paid another 
visit to the place, to take us to the mines and show us- every- 
thing worth seeing. We returned to Melbourne at 2.15, and 
had our eighth concert in the evening. A very full house 
again, and the usual success. The programmes had gone 
astray, and every piece had to be announced by Herr Scherch,. 
the accompanist. 

Sunday we spent at home, reading and writing letters to 
England, declining to see any visitors. Yesterday, Monday, 
Mr. Poole came to give me the dates of the first six concerts 
at Sydney, where he was going in the afternoon. The 
Chancellor of the University had invited me to meet him 
and the council at half-past -I o'clock, which I did, and then 
aired my views about the Chair of Music. They seemed 
muoji impressed with what I said, and asked me to revise the 
paper which they had sent out to candidates, and strike out 
those of the conditions I could not approve of, which I have 
promised to do. In the evening the Liedertafel gave me a 
reception, or a ' Social ' as they call it, and presented me with 
a beautifully got-up address (to Sir Charles and Lady Halle). 
The President, Judge Casey, is a very nice man, and the 
conductor, Mr. Hertz, extremely clever, to judge from the 
excellent way in which the Liedertafel, about 120 strong, 
sang. The quality of the voices, the ensemble arid nuances, 
all were as good as could be wished for. All the evening I 
sat on a raised platform between the President and Baron von 
Miiller, a celebrated botanist, who has been in Australia 
upwards of fifty years, and has explored it from east to west. 



374 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

It is curious that he and another gentleman, who was present 
last night, should have lived, fifty years ago, under a tent, in 
the midst of a bush and surrounded by kangaroos, on the 
very spot on which Melbourne stands now ; so rapid has 
been the growth of the town. I made the acquaintance of 
Mr. Hayter, a Government Statist, who has sent me a most 
interesting book on the population of Victoria. It shows that 
before 1835 there was not one white man in the whole pro- 
vince, but about 5,000 aborigines; by May 25, 1836, there 
were 177 whites, by November 8 of the same year 224-, two 
years later there were 3,511, and by April 3, 1881, 8-19,438. 
This shows what a new country it is; in 181-1 there were in. 
the whole province only 1,490 dwellings, and in 1881 their 
number was 179,81 6. The population of Melbourne falls short 
of that of Manchester, without Salford, and the wonder is that 
so many concerts can be given in so short a time; but then, 
there are no poor people here at all, and a beggar is not known. 

To-day is a good day for practice, and I must say that the 
contact with a new public has done us much good, and has 
put fresh musical life into us. Playing so constantly in 
England as we do, it becomes a matter of routine, and loses 
its interest ; here we are quite astonished to find that we 
take a real interest in every concert, in every article in the 
papers, and we certainly do our very best. It is a great satis- 
faction to witness the breathless attention with which these 
large crowds listen to us ; there is not the least exaggeration 
in saying that you might hear a pin drop ; and never a soul 
stirs before the last note is played. 

June 11, 1890. 

The concert last night was full, without being crowded. 
The wretched weather must have detained many. Mr. 
"Wilson, from Ballarat, a son of the late Canon Wilson, of 
Manchester, this morning sent Wilma a box full of specimens 
from the different gold mines; they are extremely interesting 
and gave her much pleasure. Two gentlemen travelled 500 
miles yesterday to hear us and are returning to-day, but wish 
to shake hands before they leave. A letter from Sandhurst 



MELBOURNE, 1890 375 

speaks of the impatience with which we are expected there, 
but it is doubtful if we can go. Mr. Wilson called at twelve 
o'clock with a little daughter, aged fourteen, who played for 
me, and very well too. She is to be sent to England, and I 
could honestly encourage him to do so. The two gentlemen 
from Hamilton came also. One of them proved to be the 
nephew of the celebrated chess-player, Horrwitz, whom I 
knew long years ago, and the other, a Mr. Palmer, a nephew 
of Heller, the well-known ' prestidigitateur.' They were in 
raptures over the concert and are remaining for to-morrow's. 
As it was Wilrna's reception-day, we had crowds of people in 
the afternoon amongst them several of our fellow-passengers 
from the Valetta. A quiet dinner and an hour's ' sixty-six ' 
concluded the day. Of course, we both practised to-day as 
on every other day. 

June 14, 1890. 

We remained at home on Thursday, and had a most 
brilliant concert in the evening, with a crowded audience. 
A little girl presented Wilma with a violin, full-size, made of 
violets. We heard from Mr. Eose that at his hotel a party 
of twenty-five are staying, who have come hundreds of miles 
from the bush for our last three concerts here. 

Yesterday, Friday, was a wet day, but we had to go to the 
University at 2.30, which the Chancellor wished to show us. 
It was very interesting, but a great fatigue, so many different 
buildings had to be visited. In the museum we saw a curious 
freak of nature, the skeleton of a young man, who, from the 
knee downwards had only one leg and one foot, although 
from the knee upwards he was formed like other people. 
Curiously enough the skeleton had been prepared by the 
father of Eugene Sue, the novelist, who was a distinguished 
doctor. One of the professors came from Manchester and 
knew me, of course. The great hall of the University is a 
beautiful place not quite finished yet with fine oak carv- 
ino-s and bronze chandeliers. We had to take wine with the 

O 

Chancellor, who had escorted us everywhere in full academical 
costume, in his private room, and very good Australian wine 



376 DIAPJES AND XOTES OF TRAVEL 

it proved to be. On our return to the hotel, we found the 
long-desired letters from home, and were very happy, all the 
more so that they brought only good news. In the evening 
I went for the first time to the Yorick Club, of which I had 
been made an honorary member, and met there the Town 
Clerk, Mr. Nisbett, Mr. Hart, and several other gentlemen, 
with whom I spent two hours very pleasantly. 

To-day Wilma is not so well, probably in consequence of 
our trudging about in the wet University grounds yester- 
day, and I wish this evening's concert were over. Altogether 
the salutary effect of the long sea-voyage seems on the wane 
and I long to be afloat again. Yesterday a long telegram 
from Lord Carrington informed me that he and Lady Car- 
rington will, after all, be at our first concert in Sydney, his 
intended inland journey having been put off on account of 
some floods. At the same time he asked us to dinner on 
Thursday next, which invitation we accepted by telegraph. 
At three o'clock this afternoon we went to the orchestral con- 
cert in the Town Hall to hear Haydn's 'Clock' Symphony and 
Beethoven's ' Leonora ' Overture. We would gladly have 
stopped at home if all the newspapers had not announced our 
visit. We were conducted in state to two enormous arm- 
chairs in front, one on each side of a passage, so that we 
could not even talk together. 

June 16, 1890. 

The concert on Saturday was pei'haps the most successful 
of all ; the hall was crammed and the demonstrations of the 
public as enthusiastic as possible. A floral tribute was 
offered to Wilma on the part of her compatriots, which was 
extremely handsome and costly ; a thousand pities that it 
must fade away. Altogether, we were extremely gratified, 
and the people cheered us in the street when we left the hall. 
We can be sure of a hearty welcome on our return. 

To-day we leave at 4.55 P.M. The weather is fine, but 
people tell us that the night will be very cold and uncomfort- 
able. We have to change at 11.20. 



SYDNEY, 1890 377 

June 21, 1890. 

The journey from Melbourne to Sydney was very tedious, 
the carriages very uncomfortable, and we had to change at 
eleven o'clock at Albany, where the N.S.Wales line begins. 
We got up pretty early, and had a very bad breakfast at 
Mittagong. On Wednesday, the 18th, our first concert was 
given, after we had been debating the whole day if it ought 
riot to be postponed, for since the previous day or two Wilma 
had been suffering from rheumatism in the middle finger of 
her left hand, which made playing very painful and almost 
impossible. Poole was in a great state of excitement and 
anxiety, and finally we arranged that I should let him know 
at six in the evening if the concert was to take place. At 
the last moment and with her usual pluck Wilma decided 
that she would play, and never did she play more divinelv. 
Our success was enormous, but how glad we were when it 
was over ! 

On Thursday afternoon the Mayor received us in the 
Town Hall at o P.M. He sent his carriage for us, and, with 
Mrs. Burdekin, met us at the top of the outside stairs she, 
a very handsome and ladylike woman, presenting Wilma 
with a splendid bouquet. The Mayor himself, a man of 
enormous wealth, is charming, and has most friendly, 
winning manners. We were conducted upstairs to the first 
of a long suite of reception rooms, where we took our stand, 
and immediately after the presentations began. We had to 
shake hands with about 800 people, the crcme of the society 
here, including the Speakers of both Houses, Ministers of 
State, Consuls, &c., &c. They all passed us, went through 
the suite of rooms, and found their way to the other side of 
the building, where, in another suite of rooms, refreshments 
were served, and to which we also were conducted when we 
had done with the shaking of hands. The whole thing was 
admirably managed, much better than at Melbourne, and no 
speeches were delivered. The two suites of rooms are on 
both sides of the large hall, in which the huge organ is being 
erected, for the completion of which Mr. Best is waiting 



378 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

here. The hall is really a grand and splendid one, all 
white, and of noble proportions ; I cannot recollect one in 
Europe to match it. People hope we shall be able to give a 
few concerts in it when we return from Brisbane, but that 
seems doubtful. 

We left at 5 o'clock, the Mayor conducting us to the 
carriage. Shortly after we had to dress to drive to Govern- 
ment House, where dinner was at 7 o'clock, to enable us to 
attend the second part of the Liedertafel's Jubilee Concert. 
Lord and Lady Carrington had been at our concert the pre- 
vious evening, but could not speak with us, as they were 
perched high up in the gallery over the clock. It is impos- 
sible to be more nice, hearty, and amiable than they were. 
After dinner we drove to the Exhibition Building, waited a 
few minutes in the carriages for the end of the first part, 
and then made our entrance, Lord Carrington giving his arm 
to Wilma, and I to Lady Carrington, the people standing up, 
and ' God Save the Queen ' being played. The Liedertafel, 
about 120 strong, sang uncommonly well, but the solos were 
not to our taste. The Exhibition Building has a railway on 
one side, and a tramway, worked by steam-engines, on the 
other, both whistling almost every minute, which spoils the 
effect of music considerably. 

After Wednesday's concert Wilma's finger got worse, and 
medical aid became indispensable. Dr. Scott Skirving, 
recommended by Lady Carrington, a Scotsman, who knew us 
well from the Reid Concerts, was very nice ; he said that if 
she were an ordinary woman he should prescribe complete 
rest, but as this in her case was out of the question he would 
try a compromise. We stopped at home all day, receiving 
plenty of visitors, and a deputation from the German Club, 
to offer me the honorary membership and to invite us both to 
a ' Maskenball ' next Friday. 

Sunday, June 22, 1890. 

Yesterday morning, on trying her finger, Wilma found to 
her sorrow that it would be impossible for her to play in the 
evening. Placards had therefore to be put up in the town, 



SYDNEY, 1390 379 

and the announcements made in the evening papers to the 
effect that the concert was postponed, in spite of which large 
crowds collected in the evening to find the doors of the hall 
closed. 

Monday, June 23, 1890. 

When the doctor came yesterday he found Wilma's finger 
much improved, but insisted upon her giving it entire rest 
until Thursday, for fear of a relapse. The concerts have to 
be postponed therefore, and the announcement to that effect 
appears in this morning's papers. It is a great annoyance, 
but it cannot be helped. Sydney strikes us as much more of 
a town than Melbourne ; there are finer streets, beautiful 
buildings, splendid shops, and altogether it looks more 
civilised and home-like. 

Wednesday, June 25, 1890. 

On Monday afternoon Mrs. Burdekin sent us her carriage 
at half-past 2 o'clock for a drive. The weather was fine, but 
a little too windy, and there was a deal of dust. We drove 
to South Head, one of the two heads through which the 
harbour is entered and upon which the lighthouse stands. 
The view is beautiful in the extreme ; the harbour winding 
through the green hills, and, being dotted here and there 
with little islets, is unlike anything we have seen before ; it 
is like an immense river, expanding at intervals into lakes, 
and being surrounded by upwards of a hundred bays. From 
the South Head it forms an enchanting panorama, extending 
for many miles up to Sydney. Close to the spot where we 
were Captain Cook landed, and for the first time hoisted the 
English flag ; Botany Bay is also very near ; altogether, it 
was a most interesting drive. Before we left the hotel we 
had letters from home, to our great joy, as we only expected 
them the following day. All the news was good, thank 
God! 

June 26, 1890. 

Wilma's finger is getting better and better ; nevertheless, 
the doctor does not seem quite sure that the exertion of 
playing this evening, and afterwards at. so many concerts, 



380 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

will not do it harm. She thinks it will not : we must hope 
for the best, but I feel anxious. The w r eather has been very 
bad to-day ; rain from morning to evening. Yesterday after- 
noon there came more letters from home, much sooner than 
we could expect them ; one to Wilma from Mrs. Ewart with 
good news of Winzi. 1 She strongly urges that we should 
give a concert at Colombo on our return journey, and offers 
to arrange everything. On inquiry at the P. and O.'s office, 
I find that the Arcadia will stop there from twenty-four to 
thirty-six hours ; so we can do it, and I will telegraph to 
that effect. In less than eight weeks we shall be on our way 
home, and very glad of it. 

June 27, 1890. 

In spite of the pouring rain, the concert last night was 
crammed, and our success very great. Wilma played beauti- 
fully, and, thank God, the exertion has had no ill effect. So 
we hope we may now go on without further interruption. 
The two sonatas of Beethoven's seemed to please most last 
night ; they were certainly listened to with breathless atten- 
tion and vehemently applauded. 

July 1, 1890. 

Last Saturday has been the rainiest day we have had yet ; 
it poured from early morning till 7 in the evening without a 
single moment's interruption. Then it cleared, which was a 
good thing for the concert. Both on Friday and Saturday 
the hall was crammed, and the applause as warm as we could 
possibly wish for. Wilma received a most beautiful flower- 
basket, and an enormous laurel wreath, big as a cart-wheel, 
with the letters H and N in white and red camellias, which 
are still fresh to-day. 

Sunday we dined with Sir Alfred Stephen and his two 
amiable daughters. He is a remarkable and very gentle- 
manly old man of nearly eighty-eight, with a very fresh 
mind. In the absence of Lord Carrington he acts as Governor, 
and seemingly does not find that it overtaxes him. He was 
full of anecdotes, and very sprightly. As a compliment to 
Wilma he had read up the history of violin-making, and 
1 Lady Halle'd dog. 



SYDNEY, 1890 381 

knew more about it than either she or I ; he confessed, how- 
ever, that his ] earning was not a day old, but protested that 
he would not forget it again. 

On Monday, yesterday, the weather was fine, and we took 
a walk through the Domain and the Botanical Gardens to 
Farm Cove Harbour, a most enjoyable promenade. The 
Gardens are wonderfully interesting ; we saw there an in- 
credible variety of palm and other exotic trees, some looking 
most fantastical and forming beautiful groups. The view 
upon the harbour is very fine, the gardens are beautifully 
kept, and as they are quite near to our hotel we shall go there 
often, weather permitting. The concert was crowded ; long 
before the commencement the notice was pat up at the box 
office : ' Standing room only.' After the concert we went for 
an hour to a ball which was given by the Mayoress, not in 
her own house but at some very spacious Assembly Rooms. 
It was a brilliant scene, well lighted, and there was a substan- 
tial supper. Gentlemen and ladies danced with infinitely 
more animation and energy than is ever seen in England, and 
we watched them with much amusement. Some of the young 
ladies were extremely handsome, and most of them well 
dressed. We left at half-past 11. 

July 4, 1890. 

Concerts on Tuesday and "Wednesday full, and animated 
as usual ; there is nothing new to be said about them. 
Wilma's finger fortunately keeps well enough not to hinder 
her playing, although it is not yet quite in its usual state. 

Yesterday afternoon we walked to the ' man-of-war steps,' 
where Captain Foss was already waiting for us with his boat 
to take us to the Sperber for tea. It is a small warship, but 
very interesting. The captain's cabin is small but rich in 
curiosities picked up in many countries, especially in Africa. 
There were spears and arrows, many of them poisoned, and 
some from the newly-discovered Pigmy race, curious shields, 
damascened swords, and so on. We had bad tea, excellent bread 
and butter, and very good champagne at this very odd hour. 
He then took us over the whole ship, explained all her fight- 



382 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

ing power, and especially the torpedoes, the most wonderfully 
clever things, which, as he said, can do everything but speak. 
At 5 o'clock we were on the bridge when the flag was lowered 
and saluted militarily by the captains, officers, and the men 
who had been called out for ' flag parade.' It was nice to see. 
The boatswain who called the men out had the most unearthly 
voice ever heard, something between the trumpeting of an 
elephant and the grunting of an ox. The captain told us 
laughingly that the boatswains seek in honour to outdo each 
other by the terrific voices they can produce from their throats. 
Before we left we signed our names in the captain's autograph 
book, on the same page, at his request, where Stanley and 
Emin Pasha had written their names. Singularly enough he 
showed us the photographs of the wife and two daughters of 
our former friend, Prince Frederick of Schleswig-Holstein, 
afterwards Prince de Noer, who died some years ago. Shortly 
after five the captain took us back to the steps in his boat in 
two minutes, and five minutes later we were at the hotel. 

July 10, 1890. 

Both the last concerts in Sydney, on Friday and Saturday, 
were crowded, the one on Saturday particularly so, and will 
long be remembered by us. Lord and Lady Carrington, who 
had only returned the same afternoon, were there, and sat on 
the platform close to the piano. Wilma got bouquets after 
every one of her pieces ; but after the last, when we thought 
the flowery tribute exhausted, there came such a shower of 
them from all sides that the whole air seemed filled with roses 
and other splendid flowers that were thrown from the galleries, 
right and left, as well as from the reserved seats, many of 
which struck Lord Carrington as well as me. The whole plat- 
form was in a short time covered with them, Lord Carrington 
and I being very busy in picking them up ; but to gather 
them all was impossible, and Wilma on leaving the platform 
had literally to walk over roses. 

Next day we started for Brisbane. At the Sydney station 
we had a disappointment, for a special carriage which had been 



BRISBANE, 1890 383 

promised to us by the Chief Commissioner of Railways, Mr. 
Eddy was not forthcoming, and the ordinary one, reserved for us, 
was the reverse of comfortable. The journey, one of thirty-six 
hours, was therefore very fatiguing, and a long telegram from 
Mr. Eddy, which we received on the road, and in which he 
expressed all his regret at the misunderstanding, brought us 
little comfort. We arrived at Brisbane at G.20 on Tuesday 
morning, the 8th, very tired, and went to bed soon after hav- 
ing had some tea at the Bellevue Hotel, where we are staying. 
What we had seen of the country between Sydney and here 
had been extremely uninteresting and very monotonous. 
Brisbane looks cheerful, and of course brand new, for thirty 
years ago there was not a house there. Now we have fine 
Houses of Parliament just opposite our windows, we look down 
upon splendid Botanical Gardens, and going out we walk 
through broad and regular streets with very grand buildings 
here and there, all very fine, but not interesting. Yesterday, 
at half-past 2, we were received by the Mayor at the Town 
Hall, the funniest ceremony we ever were at. The concert in 
the evening was very full, and the Centennial Hall, in which 
it took place, is very good and free from draughts. The 
Governor, Sir Henry Norman, was there with his suite. The 
audience applauded us a good deal, but I am afraid that the 
music we play is a little beyond them, although the papers 
this morning are in raptures. We have concerts this evening, 
to-morrow, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday, and return to 
Sydney on Wednesday next, arriving on Friday morning. 
Since our arrival at Brisbane the weather has been very fine, 
only with a little too much wind and, consequently, dust. We 
have now reached the furthest point from England ; when 
w r e leave here we shall have the feeling of getting nearer and 

nearer home. 

Jaly 12, 1890. 

The weather yesterday was lovely ; Wilma and I took a 
long walk, first to the town to post our letters, and then 
through the Botanical Gardens, which are fine, although they 
cannot be compared to those of Sydney. One part, a pool of 



384 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

water surrounded with bamboos more than 50 feet high, is 
eminently characteristic of the tropics ; it is a perfect picture. 

The two concerts have gone off well, but without interest- 
ing us in the least ; we don't feel in our element, and shall be 
glad to turn our backs upon Brisbane. 

July 14, 1890. 

Saturday afternoon we took another walk through the 
Botanical Gardens, and found them more interesting than 
before. The variety of trees is quite astounding ; some, like 
the bottle-tree, look perfectly ridiculous. We returned again 
yesterday, and discovered the aviary with a collection of fasci- 
nating birds ; also a fine fernery. Being Sunday, the gardens 
were crowded, and we were much stared at, too much for our 
comfort. The public on Saturday evening was warmer, but 
not so numerous as before. I am afraid Brisbane has been a 
mistake of our managers. To-day the weather is splendid, 
bright sunshine and warm. So at 1 o'clock we took a car- 
riage and drove to ' One Tree Hill,' from which we had a really 
beautiful view. The drive there was very fine ; first along 
the Brisbane water and then through woods with innumerable 
birds. The houses we passed were all of them built upon 
poles (like the Pfahlbauten of old) as a protection against 
gigantic ants, which visit this country frequently. The extent 
of country we saw from the top of the hill was enormous ; a 
little before us, on our left, we had the whole of Brisbane, the 
houses of which looked like so many big square stones ; 
through the whole plain, densely wooded everywhere, the 
river was gliding in ever so many zigzags ; in the distance, 
twenty-five miles away, we saw the town of Ipswich, very 
white, and nearly everywhere the horizon was bounded by a 
range of picturesque mountains of a beautiful dark-blue colour, 
leaving, in a few places, a glimpse of the ocean open. The 
air was wonderfully clear, and we enjoyed the drive immensely. 

July 15, 1890. 

The concert was crowded last night, and the enthusiasm 
greater than previously. 



BRISBANE, 1890 385 

July 1G, 1890. 

Luncneon with the Governor, Sir Henry Norman, yester- 
day was very pleasant. Nobody was present except Captain 
Baden-Powell and Mr. Wilson, formerly Postmaster-General, 
but now in opposition a great music-lover, a violinist him- 
self, who writes on music for the papers. Government House 
is small, but neat and well-situated, the gardens in front of 
the house descending to the river. We were glad to eat 
well-cooked viands after a whole week's fare at this hotel. 
The concert in the evening was again very full. It has much 
interested us to watch the growing interest of the public. 
The applause during the last two concerts has been very 
different : much more genuine and spontaneous than at the 
first. It would not take long to educate them, and to make 
them appreciate the best music. Before us, nobody had ever 
played them a sonata by Beethoven, or any other really good 
music. In the afternoon I had a visit from old Toole a dear 
and pleasant man. 

July 18, 1890. 

The journey back to Sydney has been as pleasant as the 
one to Brisbane had been disagreeable. We had special 
carriages, good beds, and a special gentleman to attend upon 
us and all our wants. We played many games of 66, and 
were altogether jolly. We arrived at 5.40 this morning, 
and experienced a feeling of intense relief in getting into our 
snug, clean rooms again. While at breakfast I heard that 
poor Mr. Best has had a bad fall down a high staircase (after 
a dinner given to Mr. Toole) : has hurt his side very badly, 
and has already been a fortnight in hospital. The opening of 
the organ and the Centennial Hall is therefore postponed, 
and not likely to take place before the second week of August. 
Lady Carrington had sent us most pressing invitations by 
letter and telegram to Brisbane to stay with them at Govern- 
ment House during our present visit, but we had to decline 
them, as we could never have been masters of our time, 
which, with so many concerts on our hands, is a matter of 
absolute necessity. 

c c 



386 DIAK1ES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

July 21, 1890. 

To-day we drove to Coogee's Bay. It is a charming place, 
and the colour of the sea most beautiful. To-morrow I am 
to be entertained at dinner by the Athenseum Club, whilst 
"VVilma will dine at Government House. The restored cable 
brought the news of H. M. Stanley's marriage and Lydia 
Becker's death. 

July 22, 1890. 

The concert was crowded yesterday, and very successful. 
We hear that for the next, which takes place at 3 P.M. 
to-morrow, the plan is already closed, as all the tickets are 
sold. Wilma went this morning to a Chinaman's shop and 
bought a few small things. The Chinaman, Geeong Tarr, 
a mandarin, has asked us to supper after one of the concerts, 
and we shall go on Friday evening. It will be a new ex- 
perience. I went out in the afternoon, and, passing a music 
shop, I saw in the window the old lithograph of the ' Musical 
Union,' with myself at the piano. Whilst I was looking at 
it the owner of the shop came out and addressed me very 
politely, telling me that this very morning he had sold 
another copy of the same. 

July 23 1890. 

The dinner at the Athenasum Club yesterday evening was 
well attended, and President Dr. Tarrant a pleasant man. 
The Mayor sat on his left, and I, as the guest of the evening, 
to his right. The eating and drinking were good : one soup, 
beche de mer, a novelty to me. It was very much like turtle. 
After dinner k the president made a speech, to which I had to 
reply, and then a little concert was performed, of which I 
have kept a programme. It was rather curious, on account 
of the exuberance of feeling displayed. Just as I was going 
Mr. Hiinerbein, a member of the club, begged me, together 
with about twenty other gentlemen (amongst whom was the 
Mayor) to go with him into another room, where we found 
more champagne, tea and coffee, and where lots more speeches 
were delivered. The Mayor and he then escorted me to the 
hotel, the night being very fine. 



SYDNEY, 1890 387 

July 25, 1890. 

The concert on Wednesday afternoon was the most crowded 
of those we have had here. The Carringtons were present 
again. In the evening we went to see ' A Doll's House,' by 
Ibsen : a very strange and not altogether satisfactory play. 
It was well acted, Miss Janet Achurcli being especially good. 

July 28, 1890. 

After the concert on Friday evening we took supper with 
Mr. GeeongTarr, the Chinese mandarin a very pleasant little 
man, who had prepared a grand spread for us. Mrs. Tarr, 
an Englishwoman, was in the country. Geeong Tarr is a 
very wealthy man and a great benefactor to the poor not 
merely the Chinese poor, but of all nations. Some years ago 
the Emperor of China sent for him and made him a mandarin 
(although he was a Christian), together with three of his 

ancestors. 

August 3, 1890. 

On Monday last we gave our last concert at Sydney, a 
matinee, which was crowded. During the interval Wilrna 
was presented with a lyre-bird in silver as a souvenir of some 
of her Sydney admirers. It is a beautiful thing, and she is 
greatly pleased with it. We left Sydney at 5 o'clock on 
Tuesday, and arrived at Melbourne at midday on Wednesday. 
On Thursday we heard from Mr. Poole that the four concerts 
next week are to be with orchestra. Yesterday morning 
I rehearsed Weber's ' Concertsttick ' with the Victorian 
orchestra, and they did very well. The Chancellor of the 
University came to see me on Friday morning, to thank me 
for the advice I had given them with regard to the Pro- 
fessorship, which the Council seemed iuclined to follow. 
Mr. Marshall Hall, from Oxford, has the best chance of being 

appointed. 

August 7, 1890. 

The ' Emperor ' Concerto made a great impression last 
evening, and altogether the concert was very pleasant. It 
was full, but not crowded, and the little orchestra does its 
best. 

cc2 



388 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

August 10, 1890. 

The Beethoven Concerto on Thursday evening had an 
immense success. Wilma played it splendidly. It was very 
well accompanied, and the enthusiasm of the band was 
touching to behold. 

Yesterday I had a rehearsal of Beethoven's C Minor 
Concerto. I went also with the band through the Adagio 
from Spolir's 9th Concerto (without Wilma), because the 
clarinet parts were missing, and I had written them out 
from memory, so it was necessaiy to see if they were what 
was wanted. At half-past one I went to the Mayor's 
luncheon at the Town Hall. The Premier and several other 
Ministers, the Speakers, and many members of both Houses 
were there altogether about fifty people. I sat between the 
Premier and the Chairman of the ' Harbour Trust/ who hails 
from Kadcliffe, near Manchester, and was therefore a sort of 
acquaintance. The luncheon proved to be a sumptuous 
dinner, and lasted till half-past four. Many speeches were 
delivered, some quite political and very amusing, and my 
health was proposed (at the Mayor's request) by Mr. Carter, 
a prominent member of the House of Commons here, and a 
very good speaker, who did it very well, and whom it was 
a pleasure to answer. Some of the speeches by members of 
the Opposition having been rather violent, falling foul of the 
Premier and Government, I began my answer by saying how 
interested I had felt in listening to them, and how it had 
seemed to me that music was the basis of all of them, for we 
musicians knew well that discords were the great charm 
of harmony. This was much applauded, and altogether I got 
pretty well out of my troubles. When I left Mr. Rose was 
waiting to conduct me to the branch establishment of Broad- 
wood's here, which was to be inaugurated yesterday. There I 
found thirty to forty musicians, writers, and friends assembled, 
and a large array of bottles of champagne. Speeches were 
made, healths drunk, and prosperity wished to the new esta- 
blishment, which indeed promises well. I returned to the 
hotel at about 6 o'clock, rather exhausted and not too well 



MELBOUENE, 1890 389 

prepared for our farewell concert in the evening. This, how- 
ever, went off splendidly, and was a glorious finish to our 
season here. There was not an available standing-place in 
the whole of that big Town Hall (larger than the Manchester 
Free Trade Hall), and many hundreds had to be turned away. 
It was an exciting evening, and no one can wish for greater 
ovations than those that were accorded us. We sent to the 
hotel a whole cab-full of beautiful flowers, amongst them a 
large lyre in violets and white flowers from the Victorian 
orchestra, which we esteem highly. It was an evening to be 
remembered, and we may be sure of a good reception if ever 
we come back to Australia. The feeling of satisfaction when 
we sat down to our supper, surrounded by our flowers, was 
very pleasant, and sent us to bed tired, but happy. We were 
to have had luncheon with the Austrian Consul to-day, but 
we sent an excuse yesterday, and were very glad we did so, 
this day of absolute rest having been very enjoyable. 

August 11, 1890. 

We had a very pleasant dinner at Government House, 
returning at 10 o'clock. To-day we are in all the bustle of 
packing up, and at 4.40 P.M. we leave for Adelaide. 

August 13, 1890. 

On Monday morning our beautiful goldfinch died in 
Wilma's hand, to our great grief. The last two days it had 
been ailing, but we hoped it would get better again ; we 
were very sorry indeed. If, according to Hector Malot, great 
affection for animals is a sign of insanity, then Wihna and I 
are a very insane couple. 

I fetched our tickets for the Arcadia at the P. and 0. 
office, received a few visitors, and at 4 o'clock we left the 
hotel, taking leave of Mrs. Menzies and her daughter, who 
had been very kind to us. At the station we found many 
friends, and Mr. Pinschoff travelled with us to Adelaide. 
The journey was most comfortable ; at 7 in the morning we 
had a first-rate breakfast, with very fine fish, at Murray 
Bridge, and at 10.20 we arrived in Adelaide. The country 



390 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

became very beautiful on Hearing Adelaide ; we saw a great 
extent, with the sea in the distance. Chief Justice Way, 
who had ordered our rooms at the Botanic Hotel, received us 
at the station (with several other people), and sent us off in 
his carriage. Half-an-hour after our arrival I was inter- 
viewed by the reporters of the two papers, and then we had 
an exciting scene. We had put our two white sparrows upon 
a balcony and in the sun, when suddenly a beautiful canary 
bird came and settled near their cage, most eager to talk to 
them ; it clung to the outside, hopped away, came back, 
stuck its head through the wires, and evidently tried to get 
to them. It was not at all afraid of us even hopped into 
our sitting-room and out again ; so at last we put a small 
cage in its way, with the door open and seed in it, and after 
a while it went in and Wilma caught it very cleverly. Now 
we have six birds again, and this one is a beauty it has 
probably escaped from somewhere, for canaries are not found 
in Australia. 

Yesterday evening we dined with Lord and Lady Kintore 
and a small party. After dinner there was a grand reception 
and a concert of Australian music, arranged in our honour, 
followed by a little operetta, very well acted and sung by 
four amateurs, and composed by Mr. Sharp, another amateur. 

To-day at 11 o'clock the Mayor received us in the Town 
Hall, and we had to go through the ceremony of hand- 
shaking, as in the other towns. The town organist played us a 
piece on the organ a fine instrument, but the piece was not 
interesting. Now we are going to dress for the first concert 
here, and after it we shall be serenaded by the Liedertafel. 

August 14, 1890. 

The first concert here was a great surprise to us. Adelaide 
boasts of being a very musical town, and the Town Hall, 
not a very large one, was half empty. True, the weather 
was bad, but so it has been in the other towns often enough 
without a similar result. Those that w T ere there made noise 
enough, and we are curious to see what to-night may bring. 



ADELAIDE, 1890 391 

Lord and Lady Kintore were there, and were announced to 
be there ; so they do not draw here either. At 10.30 the 
Liedertafel a very small body of fifteen or sixteen members 
serenaded us, and I had to stand on the balcony, where it 
was bitterly cold, to listen to their not remarkable singing. 

August lo, 1890. 

Last night's concert was little better attended than the 
first, and our managers cannot have derived much profit from 
it. It seems that Adelaide is the least musical town in 
Australia ; the next concerts will show. The last one, on 
Tuesday next, is announced to be a matinee so in all proba- 
bility we shall be able to go on board the same evening, which 
will be delightful. 

August 17, 1890. 

Last evening the house was crowded, and the demonstra- 
tions as lively as possible. Strange that we should have had 
to conquer the public of Adelaide by degrees, after all our 
triumphs in the other towns. Loi'd Kintore and his daughters 
were there again. 

August 18, 1890. 

The luncheon with Chief Justice Way yesterday was 
extremely pleasant. He has a charming house and a 
delightful garden with a fernery; besides this a splendid 
collection of birds, which we admired a long time. A 
beautiful squirrel and a parrot, spinning round and round 
for the amusement of the visitors, were very comical. Before 
luncheon we took a drive of more than an hour, which was 
very enjoyable ; the situation of Adelaide is fine, the range 
of hills forming a beautiful background. The most interesting 
thing we saw were aloes in flower ; it is said that they flower 
only once in a hundred years, so we were particularly lucky. 
The flower grows on a tree, from thirty to forty feet high, 
with many little side branches, and shoots up in a single 
day or night. It lasts a very short time and then the aloe 
dies, exhausted with the effort of producing it. It is very 
extraordinary, but not beautiful. We also saw an enormous 
havstack on fire, causing a loss of 2,000/. 



DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

In the evening we went to hear the Cathedral choir ; 
they sing really well and have beautiful voices. Afterwards 
we had supper with Mr. Arthur Boult, who has taught the 
choir ; he hails from Manchester ; his father was one of the 
directors of the Concert Hall in 1849, and I believe one of 
the members of the first committee of the Classical Chamber 
Music Society. There were a few more people, amongst 
whom Mrs. Kennion, the wife of the Bishop of Adelaide, who 
knew me from Edinburgh. 

August 19, 1890. 

The house was pretty full last night, but there were 
empty places here and there. This morning Poole settled 
everything, and we are now prepared to start, this afternoon's 
concert being the last. 

We are invited to a ball at Government House, but shall 
wisely abstain. 

August 21, 1890. 

The last concert has been given, the whole Australian 
tour is ended, and we are in the good ship Arcadia, home- 
ward bound. The concert was crowded, and the ovations 
like those in Melbourne and Sydney. In the morning I had 
tried in vain to buy a diamond-sparrow for Wilma, to replace 
one that had flown away ; on our return from the concert 
we found six of them, sent by the Chief Justice, who had 
heard from Mr. Pinschoff of our loss. As I had bought a 
zebra-finch and two mannikins, and Mr. Rose had brought 
two more zebra-finches, we travel now with no less than 
sixteen birds, all beautiful and most amusing. We spent 
the last evening at the hotel, Pinschoff dining with us, and 
were very merry. Fourteen boxes had been sent off to the 
Arcadia in the morning, and only three remained to 
follow the next morning. At half-past 9 we were at the 
station, the Consul, Mr. and Mrs. Poole, and the advance- 
agent Henry accompanying us on board, as well as two 
gentlemen from the P. and O. office; one a Swede, Mr. 
Kilman. The weather was beautiful, and we reached the 
Arcadia before 11 o'clock, and then had about two hours 



s.s. 'ARCADIA; isoo 393 

of great anxiety, as none of our luggage had arrived. 
Steam-launch after steam-launch came, brought passengers, 
ail the mail-bags, but not a scrap of our luggage. The 
bell had rung for strangers to leave, and, as we could not 
possibly start on a month's journey without even a shirt to 
change, we were on the point of returning to Adelaide, 
although it meant the loss of a fortnight, the giving up of 
the pleasure of spending a little time in Italy, and many 
other disagreeable consequences, when a steamer, despatched 
to the shore on purpose by our excellent Swede, at last 
brought our treasures and changed our despair into content- 
ment. We then took leave of all our friends, who cheered 
us from their boat, and bade adieu to Australia. In all 
probability we shall return next year. 

The Arcadia is a splendid ship, of immense size, beauti- 
fully fitted up, and going so easily that we do not feel even 
the slightest trembling from the motion of the screw. We 
have indeed been liberally treated by the P. and 0. Com- 
pany, for we have three cabins to ourselves. The deck is 
of immense size and makes a splendid promenade. There 
are two music-saloons, a grand smoking-room, and altogether 
the accommodation is vastly superior to that on the Valetta. 
One great advantage is that the first-class is in the fore-part 
and not behind the funnels, so that we never get the smoke 
and shall feel the breeze much better. The Captain, Andrews, 
is much more bluff, and perhaps less kind and obliging, than 
our dear Briscoe was, but a very nice man all the same. The 
number of passengers is small, perhaps only from forty to fifty. 

September 1, 1890. 

At 8 o'clock this morning we crossed the line, just four 
months after our first crossing it. The weather is perfection, 
cool and pleasant ; we enjoy the deck more than ever. 
Either to-morrow evening or on Wednesday morning very 
early we shall arrive at Colombo, and we have the feeling 
that from the equator we are going ' down-hill ' towards 
home. There will be sports this afternoon, the ship being 
quite steady, and a concert this evening. The wide ocean 



394 DIARIES AND NOTES OF TRAVEL 

seems to be quite lifeless; we see no fish and no bird, much 
as we look out for them. 

September 5, 1890. 

The sports on Monday afternoon were very amusing ; 
there were potato-races, spoon-and-egg races for ladies, 
high jumps, slinging the monkey, tandem-driving by ladies, 
the first horse being, blindfolded ; and a tug-of-war to finish 
up with. In the evening we had a concert, Wilma and I 
playing each two little pieces, the rest being songs (two by 
the captain). At 2 o'clock in the night we reached Colombo, 
and at 8 Harry Ewart came to fetch us in the Custom House 
Officers' boat which they had kindly put at our disposal. 
He gave us the welcome news that Winzi was alive and 
well, and half an hour later we saw the dear little beast, 
whose delight was touching to witness. We drove to the 
Assembly Rooms to have a look at the piano which a 
Mr. Sivell had kindly lent for the concert. It was a boudoir- 
grand, by Chappell, and none of the best, but still the best 
in Colombo. The concert took place at 9 o'clock, and was 
very full, the Governor, Sir Henry Havelock, with his wife 
and suite being there. In spite of the climate, we did not 
suffer much from the heat, as the doors and the windows 
were all open. Harry, who had superintended the arrange- 
ments, was most busy, and his anxiety for our comfort was 
touching. After the concert he had a few friends to supper, 
among whom were Mr. Cameron, a son of our old friend Mrs. 
Cameron, and a former Miss Prinsep, niece of our old friend 
Thoby Prinsep, who had often seen me at Little Holland 
House, in the olden time, when she was quite young. This 
made the evening doubly interesting to me, and we did not 
go to bed before half-past two in the morning. The next 
day Harry and his wife brought us back to the Arcadia, 
and remained with us until the start, shortly after four. 
They have been uncommonly kind to us, and we parted from 
them very reluctantly. The weather looked very threaten- 
ing, and we were afraid of a rough sea, instead of which it 



MILAN, 1890 395 

proved to be a very mild one, no fiddles being necessary 
during meals. 

September 28, 1890. 

On Thursday evening the first-class passengers had a 
fancy ball, to which the second-class were invited. It began 
by a grand procession, passing before and bowing to the 
captain and myself. Some of the costumes were very comical, 
and altogether it was a success, and was kept up till mid- 
night, the ship rushing along all the while at the rate of 
1 6 miles an hour. In the afternoon we had passed along the 
coast of Morea, the Ionian Islands, &c. ; the view of Zante, 
with the setting sun upon its red rocks, being particularly 
fine. When we came on deck yesterday morning at 7 o'clock 
we found ourselves close to Brindisi and the flat shores of that 
part of Italy, and heard that we should arrive at 8 o'clock, for 
which hour breakfast was also announced. The Adriatic was 
as blue and glassy as the Mediterranean had been, and the 
weather altogether too lovely. We were at our breakfast, 
and had not even perceived that the ship had touched the 
quay, when somebody touched my shoulder ; I looked up and 
shouted ' Ludwig.' l upon which Wilma gave a shriek and 
fell upon his shoulders, sobbing for joy. We had not 
expected to see him there. Shortly after we said good-bye 
to the captain, the officers and some of the passengers, recom- 
mended all our things and the fifteen birds to C., distri- 

O 

buted the pour-boires and left the ship. At 11.30 we left 
Brindisi by the special train, and arrived here at Milan at 
9 o'clock this morning. 

And so ends this eventful voyage, which has been 
successful in every sense of the word. We bring home a 
rich store of pleasant recollections, have enjoyed perfect health, 
and can say with truth that nothing occurred to mar our 
happiness for a single moment. And for this let us be 
grateful ! ! 

1 Lady Halld's eldest son. 



396 NOTES OF TEAYEL 



III 

EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS WRITTEN DURING SIR CHARLES AND 
LADY HALLE'S TOUR IN SOUTH AFRICA, IN 1895 

Grand Hotel, Capetown, 

July 30, 1895. 

The mail only goes to-morrow ; so I can add a few lines 
to my letter, and tell you that we have safely arrived here at 
half-past one in the morning, about eight hours sooner than 
we expected. Our agent was with us long before breakfast, 
and gave me the agreeable news that he had postponed the 
concerts here one day in order to give us a day of rest ; the 
Tantallon Castle will actually wait for us until Friday, 
instead of sailing on Thursday. More still, the ship will wait 
for us three or four days longer at Port Elizabeth, in order to 
take us on to Durban. So you see we are a good deal thought 
of, another proof of which is that for the two concerts here 
not a single ticket remains unsold, so that some of the pas- 
sengers who wanted to go are disappointed. I have got one 
seat for the captain in our manager's own box. This hotel is 
very good, and we have capital rooms. 

We have just returned from a most wonderful drive, 
which alone would have been worth the trouble of coming 
here. The view over the town from the height reminded me 
very much of Naples and the drive along the coast of the 
' Corniche.' We drove through the ' Kloof ' (Dutch for 
cleft) between the Table Mountain and the Lion's Head, and 
back round by Sea Point; it was simply enchanting, and 
took upwards of two hours. We certainly had no idea that 
this was such a beautiful place not the town, but the 
situation. 

I found a most nice letter from G. here, who says that the 
tickets for our concerts at Johannesburg are selling most 
rapidly, although it will be a full month before we get there. 
They say our tour this year will be a royal triumph, and already 
ask if we will not come back next year for a little longer. 



PORT ELIZABETH, 1895 397 

Here, at the hotel, we were received with ever so many 
bouquets, sent by people right and left ; our sitting-room is 
so full of flowers that it looks like a greenhouse, and such 
flowers ! It is mid-winter here, but not a bit cold, and the 
air is most exhilarating. We already know that we shall 
return in the Scot, the largest and fastest ship of the Union 
Line, larger than the Tantallon. We shall leave Cape 
Town on September 11, and be in London on the 27th; I 
can therefore be in Manchester on the 28th, two days before 
1 am wanted. 

Wilma will have to go to Denmark on October 11 or 12, 
and not come back before about November 23, as she will 
have a whole series of concerts. 

Now you know all about our doings, and I wish I knew 
as much about yours and all the other dear ones. Once more 
I say, give them all my love and keep writing, and tell me 
what news you have of Anna. 

Grand Hotel, Port Elizabeth, 

August 5, 1895. 

I wrote to you from Cape Town, where, since then, we 
have given two concerts with enormous success ; they took 
place in the Opera House, a charming theatre, and were 
crowded. On Friday morning we were on board again at 
10 o'clock, and had the most wonderful passage round the 
Cape of Good Hope to this place. We were constantly about 
a mile or two from the coast, which is remarkably fine, and 
you may imagine that we looked at the Cape with more than 
common interest, as it is one of the places with the name of 
which one has been familiar all one's life. It is a very bold 
and striking-looking Cape indeed, and the sea, which is said 
to be generally wild and rough about it, behaved splendidly 
to us ; there was 110 rolling and no pitching. 

We arrived here on Saturday afternoon, two hours before 
we were expected, and were received on landing by the 
Deputy- Mayor and a few aldermen. The whole Corporation 
had meant to be there, but on account of our arriving so 



NOTES OF TRAVEL 

much too soon the Mayor could not be found. Bouquets were 
brought to Wilma on board ship, and a nice landau was 
waiting to take us to this hotel, which is on the top of a hill, 
and from which the view over the town, harbour, and the sea 
is simply enchanting. 

Saturday evening the concert took place in a very beautiful 
hall, and there was such a scene of excitement as I have 
seldom witnessed. The roaring of the audience outdid any 
Yorkshire or Lancashire roaring sevenfold, and Wilma espe- 
cially carried everything before her. Yesterday was a day 
which cannot be described ; it was simply heavenly. There 
was not the smallest cloud to be seen in the sky, and since 
we spent that happy month of August in Venice, when I 
used to look out of the open window at 6 o'clock in the 
morning, I have never experienced such happiness by merely 
inhaling the air as here. 

We have a splendid verandah before our rooms, where we 
sit almost the whole day, and do nothing but exclaim over 
and over again : beautiful ! heavenly ! splendid ! 

Who should call on Saturday shortly after our arrival but 
a brother of Otto Gohlschmidt, E. Goldschmidt, who was one 
of the principal directors of the Bradford concerts when they 
were first started, and whom I had known there for many 
years. He has been here for the last 12 years, and has a 
very large business. We dined with him yesterday, Sunday ; 
very pleasant it was to be able to talk of the olden times. 

This is the place for ostrich feathers, and Mr. Goldschmidt 
is going to make a present of a lot of them to Wilma to-day; 
she is allowed to choose what she likes for a boa and a fan. 
To-night is our second concert, and to-morrow we leave at 
12 o'clock for Grahamstown, where we shall arrive at 6, for 
the concert at 8.30. The next day we rest there, and we 
have been told that the neighbourhood is one of the finest in 
Africa. On Thursday we shall drive the whole day in a 
landau with four horses to get to King Williamstown. We 
prefer that to a very long and roundabout railway journey, 
which would take much more time, especially as the country 



KING WILLIAMSTOWN, 1895 399 

which we shall have to pass through is said to be remarkably 
fine. From King Williamstown we go by rail to East 
London, where probably a concert will be given which is not 
on our list ; and from East London to Durban by sea. There 
I shall at last get letters from you, which cannot reach us 
earlier on account of the enormous distances. 

They call the months of July and August mid-winter 
here, but the warmth is just like a beautiful June day in 
England; I wear no top- coat, and feel very comfortable. 
The mail leaves here to-night, and the further East we go 
the sooner in the week it will leave. I shall endeavour to 
write by every one. 

In five weeks and two days we shall be on board the 
Scot, on our return journey. Once more, fond love to all. 

King Williamstown, 

August 10, 1805. 

I believe I wrote last from Port Elizabeth, where we had 
two eminently successful concerts. On Tuesday afternoon 
we left for Grahamstown by a train (the only one in the day), 
which was to arrive at 6.20 P.M., but did not do so before 
6.40, and as we had a concert at 8.30, we saw with alarm 
the Mayor and the town clerk at the station to receive and 
harangue us, and some young damsels with bouquets for 
Wilma. They cut it short, however, and we had time to 
eat a little before we had to play. The room was crowded 
again, and the shouting something to remember. We are a 
bit astonished to see the halls so well rilled, for the towns are 
remarkably small, but very pretty and full of gardens. 
Grahamstown being away from the coast, we there got a 
first glimpse of African life, and very striking it was. Carts 
drawn by a team of sixteen oxen are plentiful and very 
picturesque, but the strangest sight is that of the ostriches 
being brought to market. Troops of thirty or forty march 
solemnly, two by two, just like a regiment of soldiers, and 
look extremely funny. To go from Grahamstown to this 
place we had our choice of the railway, which takes two 
nights and a day, or of driving nearly six hours a day and 



400 NOTES OF TRAVEL 

sleeping at Breakfastoley, a halfway house. We chose the 
latter, as you would have clone, not knowing what was in 
store for us. Such roads, or rather no roads, we had no idea of, 
and we were jolted as I hope we shall never be again. Only 
two-wheeled carts can traverse them, drawn by six horses, 
holding six persons, including the driver, upon two benches, 
which, however, are pretty comfortable. In spite of all draw- 
backs, we are not sorry to have had the experience, for we 
have seen many curious things ; the first day we had ostriches 
to the right and to the left from about 12 o'clock when we 
left until 5, when we got to Breakfastoley, a very unpretend- 
ing and very clean little inn, only one storey high, and 
standing quite alone. The next day we saw no ostriches, but 
drove past numbers of Kaffir huts and villages, which were 
far more interesting. The huts look like big mushrooms, 
having only one door and no windows whatever, and the 
Kaffirs themselves, draped in their brownish yellow togas, 
are an extraordinary sight. It was worth a good deal of 
discomfort to see them. Eight miles before reaching King 
William stown we saw two carriages standing in the road, 
and gentlemen beside them, who stopped us. They were the 
Mayor and the German Consul who had come out to meet us ; 
the Consul, a Mr. Lehmann, who had his mother-in-law with 
him, made Wilma take a seat in his carriage, and the Mayor 
got hold of me, and they brought us to the house of a Mr. 
Dyer, a very rich man, who, being absent himself, had put 
his house and his German servants at our disposal, and here we 
have been living in clover these two days, with champagne at 
dinner and supper. The concert yesterday was excellent, 
and at 2 P.M. we leave for East London, from whence we 
leave to-morrow by sea for Durban. 

This is midwinter here, the thermometer standing in the 
sun at 141 degrees ! What may the summer be ! And now 
good-bye once more, and love to everybody. We are both 
remarkably well, and I begin to think that we shall come 
back younger than when we left England. 



JOHANNESBURG, 1895 401 



Johannesburg: August 22, 1895. 

My last letter to you was from Durban, which we left the 
next morning for Pietermaritzburg. We were again received 
at the station by the Mayor and his wife and lots of other 
people, and driven in state to the Imperial Hotel, kept by a 
widow, a Manchester woman, and frequenter of my concerts 
there, who made us most comfortable. Up to the present I 
have met Manchester people in every place, so that we often 
say it was hardly worth while to come all this way. We had 
our concert the same evening, which was crammed and verv 
satisfactory. I enclose one newspaper article as a specimen : 
they are all very much alike. Pietermaritzburg being the 
capital of Natal, the public seemed to be more distingue, and 
included many officers, who looked very bright. During the 
evening the Mayor came with the request that we should play 
one piece at a concert which the Corporation would give on 
Sunday afternoon at 4 o'clock. Think of that ! a concert 
given on a Sunday by the municipality of an English colony ! 
The tickets were only 2s. and I*., but the very fine Town 
Hall was crowded. We played the Kreutzer Sonata, after an 
organ solo and one song had been given, and when we had 
finished a member of the Corporation came forward and said 
that after the impression just received it would be best to 
omit the rest of the programme, upon which the public- 
cheered and dispersed. 

The Governor, Sir Walter Hely-Hutchinson, had only 
returned from Zululand on Saturday evening, but sent his 
aide-de-camp early on Sunday morning to the hotel to invite 
us to luncheon. We found him a very charming man, and 
his wife a perfectly lovely woman, with most beautiful 
children. They all went to the concert in the afternoon. 
At 10.30 the same evening we left by rail, in comfortable 
sleeping carriages, for Johannesburg. From daylight on 
Monday morning the journey was very interesting, the 
scenery unlike any we had seen before. We crossed the 
battlefield of Majuba Hill, where the English were annihilated 

DD 



402 NOTES OF TRAVEL 

by the Boers in 1877, and the railway climbs higher and 
higher until it reaches Charlestown, 5,800 feet high. 

At 3.20 P.M. on Monday last we reached Standerton, and 
there the railway ends for the present. An enormous coach 
was waiting for us at the station, just the same sort of 
coach as the one which Buffalo Bill had in his show, drawn 
by ten. horses and driven from the box. In this we were 
quite comfortable, as there was room for twelve inside, and 
we drove two hours more to a place called Waterfall, a single 
farm house, where they take passengers in. We got a good 
dinner, very simple, of course, excellent German beer, and 
bedrooms in plenty. 

Tuesday morning we left at eight, got luncheon at Heidel- 
bero", forded a number of streams in our coach, for bridges are 

O * ' O 

verv scarce in this country, and about half an hour before 
reaching Johannesburg to my great joy found Gustav waiting 
for us by the roadside ; he is well and hearty and looks 
unchanged. He is very busy, but gives us as much of his 
time as he can, and it is a great delight to me to be once 
more with him, although only for so short a time. 

Johannesburg: September 1, 1895. 

My last letter actually, for the next mail will carry our- 
selves home after a wonderfully interesting, successful, and 
very short trip. One of my greatest pleasures has been, of 
course, to spend a whole fortnight with Gus. 

Since last I wrote we have been twice to Pretoria, and 
here we give this evening, Sunday evening, our fifth concert. 
On our second visit to Pretoria I was introduced to President 
Kriiger by his Prime Minister, and found him an ugly but 
very energetic-looking man, in manners a real Boer. I shall 
give details when I see you. Altogether, I need not write 
much to- Jay, because one week after you receive this I can tell 
you all so much better. 

Yesterday we went down a gold mine, one of the best 
here, took lancheon with Gus, and in the evening went to the 
theatre to see a stupid but very laughable and well-acted 
farce. To-day (I write early) we shall see a Kaffir dance, got 



BLOEMFOXTE1X, 1895 4Q3 

np entirely in our honour, about which I shall add a few words 
before closing my letter. The dance is fixed for 1 1 o'clock ; 
at half-past one we take luncheon with Mr. and Mrs. Rogers 
(he is one of the most important men here), where there will 
be a garden party in the afternoon and the concert begins at 
9 o'clock to-night. The weather is always the same, the sky 
intensely blue, without a single cloud, the days very warm, 
and the nights somewhat fresh. Johannesburg has, however, 
one great drawback: the dust, which lies at least 3 inches 
deep in every street and every road. We have had one windy 
day, when the clouds of dust were extraordinary to look at 
and certainly not pleasant. We had quite enough with that 
one day, and fortunately have not experienced a second. 

We leave to-morrow at twelve, and arrive at Bloemfontein. 
after midnight (by rail, of course;, and give a concert there 
on Tuesday. On Wednesday we go to Kimbeiiey, have 
concerts there on Thursday and Friday ; shall visit the biggest 
diamond mine, and on Saturday leave for Cape Town, where 
we give a farewell concert on Tuesday, the 10th, and on the 
llth we go on board the Scof. 

Yon all seem to have had very bad weather, for which we 
have been sorry. We do not any longer know what bad 
weather means. 

W r e have just come back from the dance, a most extraor- 
dinary wild scene it was. There were about 1,000 Kaffirs and 
Zulus, well-armed with long sticks instead of assegais, singing 
their war songs, dancing and rushing about in the most be- 
wildering manner, and still always orderly. They gave us 
tremendous salutes, ai.d when the performance was half over, 
the chief, a most noble-looking fellow, walked up and was in- 
troduced to Wilma. and said some nice things which were trans- 
lated to her. Altogether it was worth coming to Africa for; 
we could never have got an idea of it elsewhere. 

And now, au revoir very soon. We are as well as possible, 
and have enjoyed ourselves thoroughly. I hope the house is 
in tip-top order, and that the building at the College will be 
finished in good time. 

D D 2 



APPENDICES 



A GERMAN CRITIC ON MR. CIIAKLES HALL IN 1841. 

(Translated from the German.) 

THE celebrated critic A. Schindler thus wrote of my father in 
1841 : 'Shall I speak once more to German lovers of music 
of this young artist, whom I mentioned with praise in my 
" Beethoven in Paris " 1 I may be permitted to do so otherwise 
than in the usual form, as Mr. Halle himself as a pianist is an 
exception to the general rule. At any rate, I wish in this way 
to bring this interesting artist nearer to the German musical 
world, to whom he is almost unknown, and to bring him into 
closer contact with it. Let us endeavour once again to sif*. the 
chaff from the wheat. Three days after my arrival in Paris (in 
January of last year) I received an invitation to a musical soiree 
at Erard's. In the amiable note occurred the phrase : " You 
will meet many artists and literary celebrities, and will also finci 
several fellow-countrymen." The assembly must have numbered 
over four hundred persons, more than half of them ladies, among 
whom I could not find a single good-looking one, perhaps in con- 
sequence of having been spoilt by the frequentation of German 
salons and concert-rooms. It was otherwise with the male 
portion of the party, many of whom were handsome, and had 
strikingly interesting faces, amongst them some tremendous 
beards, and heads of hair that flowed over their shoulders. The 
sight carried me back to some of the synagogues I had visited in 
the Jewish towns of Austria, and it required some effort not to 
laugh aloud at this masquerade. In this pell-mell of artists, 
literati, bankers, and diplomates, I noticed a fair young man, 
whose figure and whole appearance bore a very striking resem- 



APPENDIX I 

blance to the princes of the Imperial House of Austria. In 
answer to the inquiry who the young man was, my hostess 
replied, " It is Mr. Halle, a remarkable pianist, and a country- 
man of your own, whom I will introduce to you at once." This 
was clone forthwith. His appearance, coupled with a natural 
modesty, the information he gave me that he was born at Hagen 
in the county of Mark, and that he had studied under the old 
master, Binck, at Darmstadt before coming to this musical Babel, 
made this young artist, amid the legion of his fellows, still more 
attractive to me. My subsequent acquaintance with his beautiful 
talent, which I often had the opportunity of admiring in the 
performance of great classical works, made me rank him at once 
among the most noteworthy artists of this great capital, among 
those who strive after a high ideal. The readers of my aforesaid 
pamphlet will remember what hopes I set upon this youth hopes 
that -were being discussed in Germany at the moment of my 
second A'isit to Paris. I had barely arrived when I heard the 
news that Mr. Halle had quite changed his original style of 
playing, and bad adopted the passionate and demonstrative 
manner of Liszt, and banged, hammered, and thumped like him. 
A second and a third messenger of ill news brought the same 
intelligence. 

' It will be understood what a painful impression this made 
upon me, and how I wished that the forerunner of these musical 
fooleries were safe at Charenton, where a cell should have been 
prepared for him long before his bad example had enticed young 
talents to follow in his track. Meanwhile the change of Mr. 
Halle's intellectuality for Mr. Liszt's fanfaronades was accom- 
plished, as I soon had the opportunity of being convinced. 
Annoyance at having ranked this young man, according to the 
best of my conviction, among the very foremost of the elect, 
shame that by this classification I had done a wrong to the true 
interests of art, and had over and above compromised my musical 
judgment, were the feelings that for some time possessed me, 
but also determined me that it was my duty to interfere, and to 
attempt to deliver from the musical Beelzebub this soul, whom 
some already counted among the lost. I succeeded, and before I 
left Paris for the second time I had the delight to see this young 
artist, in whom so many take the warmest interest, once again 
upon the right road which leads to Parnassus, where there is. no 
chase after ribbons and orders, but after true knowledge and 
worthiness.' 



APPENDIX II 



407 



II 

LIST OF WORKS, WITH THE NUMBER OF TIMES THEY WERE 
PERFORMED AT SlR ClIARLES HALLE'S CONCERTS AT THE 
FREE TRADE HALL, MANCHESTER, nuiuxu THIRTY-SEVEN 
YEARS, 1858-1895. 



ORATORIOS. 


J. S. Bach. 


Haydn. 




The Passion Music, St. Matthew 


o 
O 


The Creation . 


. 21 


Beethoven. 




The Seasons . 


. 5 


The Mount of Olives 


-1 


Liszt. 








St. Elizabeth . 


. 1 


Benedict. 








St. Peter .... 


1 


Macfarren. 




Berlioz. 


i St. John the Baptist 


. 2 


The Childhood of Christ 


3 


Mackenzie. 




Costa. 




The Rose of Sharon 


. 1 


Eli 


Mendelssohn. 




Kaaman ..... 


1 St. Paul .... 


. . 8 


Dvorak. 


Elijah .... 


. 29 


St. Lndmilla .... 


Parr//, Hubert. 




Gounod. 


Judith .... 


. 1 


The Redemption 


2 


Rossini. 




Mors et Vita .... 


1 


Moses in Egypt 


. 2 


Handel. 


Rubinstein. 




The Messiah .... 


55 


Paradise Lost 


. 1 


Judas Maccabseus . 


10 








5 


Sponr. 






1 


The Last Judgment . 


. 2 


Jephtha 
Israel in Egypt 
Joshua ..... 


6 
4 
1 


Stanford. 
The Three Holy Children 


. 1 


Saul ..... 


1 


Sullivan 






1 

2 


The Light of the World . 


. 2 


Theodora .... 



CHORAL WORKS, NOT ORATORIOS. 



Barnett. 
The Ancient Mariner 

Beethoven. 

Eidelio . 

Music to Eernont . 



Mass in C 
Mass in D 

'Hallelujah' from Mount 
Olives 

Becker, Albert. 
Geistlicher Dialog . 



. 4 

. 3 
of 

. 2 

1 



408 



APPENDIX II 



Benedict. 

St. Cecilia ... .1 

Bennett, Stcrndale. 
Exhibition Ode ... 2 

The Woman of Samaria . 2 

The May Queen . . .1 

Berlioz. 

Faust . . . . .16 

Brahms. 

German Requiem . . .2 

Rinaldo . . . . .1 

CJierubini. 

Requiem in C minor . . 1 

Mass No. 4 in C major . . 1 

David, F. 

The Desert . . . .2 

Dvorak, 

Stabat Mater . ... 1 

The Spectre's Bride . . 3 

Requiem ... .1 

Glucli. 

Iphigenia in Tauris . . 4 

Orpheus . . . . .4 

Armida . . . . .1 

Eirst Act of Alcestis . . 1 

Gounod. 

Messe Solennelle . . .5 

O Salutaris Hostia . . .3 

Gallia . . . . .1 

Handel. 

L' Allegro ed il Pensieroso . 1 

Zadok the Priest . . .3 

Acis and Galatea . . .2 

Alexander's Eeast . . .1 

Ode to St. Cecilia . . . 1 

Heclit. 

Eric the Dane . . .1 

Macfarren. 

The Lady of the Lake . . 1 

Mackenzie. 
Jason 1 

Mendelssohn. 

Mnsic to ' A Midsummer 

Night's Dream ' . .10 

Finale to Loreley . . .3 



Hymn of Praise . . .17 

Psalm, ' As the Hart Pants ' . 2 
Psalm, ' When Israel Out of 

Egypt Came ' . .2 

The First Walpurgis Night . 11 

Hymn, ' Hear my Prayer ' . 3 

Psalm, 'Judge Me, God' . 2 

Mozart. 

Requiem . . . .3 

' Die Zauberflote ' . . .2 
Finale of First Act ' Don Gio- 
vanni ' .... 1 
' Le Nozze di Figaro ' .1 
Chorus, ' Sweet Peace De- 
scending,' Idomeneo . , 1 
Ave Verum . . . . 1 

liossini. 

Stabat Mater . . . .10 
Messe Solennelle . . .1 
First Act of ' Guillaume Tell ' 1 

Rubinstein. 
The Tower of Babel . . 1 

Schubert. 
Mass in E flat . . .1 

Schumann. 

Paradise and the Peri . . 2 
Second and Third Parts of 
Music to ' Faust ' . .1 

Saint- Saens. 
' Samson et Dalila ' . .2 

Spontini. 

Finale, Second Act from ' La 
Vestale ' . . .1 

Sullivan. 

Music to ' The Tempest '. . 2 
The Prodigal Son ... 1 
On Shore and Sea . . .1 
Music to ' The Merchant of 

Venice ' . . . .1 
The Golden Legend . . 6 

Verdi. 
Requiem. . . .3 

Wagner. 

Closing Scene of Act I. ' Par- 
sifal ' . . . . .1 
Act III. ' Tannhauser ' . .3 
Act III. ' Lohengrin ' .3 



APPENDIX II 



409 



Flving Dutchman 



Wclicr. 



a: lying -L/uiciiman, ACL Li. ana 
Act III 


' Der Freischiitz ' . 
2 ' Preciosa ' 


1 
1 


SYMPHONIES, &c. 


Alert. 


Goetz. 




Columbus .... 


2 In F 


1 


Beethoven 


Gold mark. 




No. 1 in C 


4 




No. 2 in D 


j k> ' Landliche Hochzeit ' 


6 


No. 3 in E flat ' Eroica ' 


15 




No. 4 in B flat 


-t, Gouvy, Tli. 




No. 5 in C minor . 


18 ! Sinfonietta in D, Op. 80 . 


1 


No. 6 in F Pastorale 
No. 7 in A 


23 
-, n (jrerman, kid. 




No. 8 in F 


14 : Symphony in A minor . 


1 


No. 9 in D minor, Choral 


8 




Battle Symphony . 


2 Haydn. 




Bennett, Stcrndalc. 

T /~1 


In E flat (Salomon No. 1) 
In D (Salomon No. 2) 


2 
4 


In G minor .... 


In E flat (Salomon No. 3) 


3 


Berlioz, 


In 1) (Salomon No. 4) . 


2 


Harold in Italy 


4 In D (Salomon No. 5) 


4 


i/ 

Fantastique .... 


/ In G- ' Surprise ' (Salomon 

"K T r*\ 




Homeo and Juliet . 


Q , No. 6) 


5 




In C (Salomon No. 7) 


5 


Brahms. 


In B flat (Salomon No. 8) 


3 


Serenade in D 


1 In C minor (Salomon No. 9) . 


2 


Adagio, Minuet and Finale, 


In 1) (Salomon No. 10) . 


2 


Serenade in A ... 


1 In G, Military (Salomon 




In C minor, Op. GS 


1 No. 11) .... 


3 


In D, Op. 73 . 


5 In B flat (Salomon No. 12) . 


5 


In F, Op. 90 . 


2 In F sharp minor, ' Abschied ' 




In E minor, Op. 98 


2 (Pohl No. 11) 


1 


Brucli, Max. 


In E minor (Pohl No. 13) 
In A (Pohl No. 30) . 


1 
2 


No. 3 in G 


1 In D 'La Chasse ' (Pohl 




Cowen. 


No. 40) .... 


1 


No. 3, ' Scandinavian ' 


,, In E flat (Pohl No. 45) . 
In D minor (Pohl No. 49) 


I 
5 


Dvorak, 


In C ' L'ours ' (Pohl No. 52) . 


1 


No. 1 in D 


2 In G minor ' La Poule ' (Pohl 




No. 2 in D minor . 


1 No. 53) .... 


1 


No. 3 in F 


2 In B flat ' La Heine de 




No. 4 in G 


2 France ' (Pohl No. 55) 


1 


No. 5 in E minor ' From the 


In G (Pohl No. 58) . 


5 


New World ' 


1 In C (Pohl No. 60) . 


1 




In G ' Oxford ' (Pohl No. 61) . 


2 


Gade. 


In E flat (Pohl No. 63) . 


2 


No. 1 in C minor . 


4 InD 


3 


No. 3 in A minor . 






No. 4 in B flat 


2 Hcclit. 




No. 8 in B minor . 


1 In F .... 


1 





410 



APPENDIX II 



H uber, Hans. 

Serenade in G, ' Summer 
Nights' . 1 

Lachner. 
' Suite ' No. 2, Op. 115 in E 

minor . . . . .1 
' Suite ' No. 6, in C . . .1 
' Ball Suite ' in D . . .1 

Mendelssohn. 

No. 1 in C minor . . .1 

No. 2 ' Reformation ' . .3 

No. 8 ' Scotch ' in A minor . 19 

No. 4 ' Italian ' in A . .17 

Mozart, 

In D (No. 1) . . . .7 

In G minor (No. 2) . .12 

In E flat (No. 3) . . .10 

In C ' Jiipiter ' (No. 4) . . 12 

In D (No. 5) . . . . G 

In C (No. C) . . . .4 

In D ' Parisian ' . .4 

In C 2 

Hafner Serenade, in D . .1 

Serenade, No. 9, in D . .1 

Moszkowsld. 
Orchestral Suite, in F, Op. 39 1 

Raff. 

' Leonora ' in E . . .4 
In G minor, Op. 167 .1 

' Im Walde ' in F . . .3 
' Suite im Ungarischen Styl' 

in F, Op. 194 ... 2 
'Winter' . 1 

' Friihlingsklange ' in A major 1 

Rubinstein. 
' Ocean ' in C . 1 



Saint- Saens. 
In E flat 1 

Schubert. 

In B flat 1 

In B minor, unfinished . . 13 
In C 9 

Tragic, No. 5 in C minor . 1 

Schubert and Joachim. 
In C 1 

Sgambati. 
In D, Op. 16 . . . . 1 

Schumann. 

No. 1 in B flat . . .7 

No. 2 in C . . . .5 

No. 3 in E flat . . .7 

No. 4 in D minor . . .5 

Overture, Scherzo and Finale 

in E . . . . 5 

Spohr, 

' The Power of Sound ' . .7 
No. 3 in C minor, Op. 78 . 1 

Stanford. 
' Irish Symphony ' . . .1 

Sullivan. 
InE 1 

Svendsen. 
In B flat, Op. 15 . . .1 

Tschaikowslnj. 

No. 5 in E minor, Op. 64 . 1 
No. 6 in B minor, 'Pathe- 
tique ' . . . . .1 



In C major 



Wagner. 



OVEETUEES. 



Adam. 

Giralda .... 
Le Brasseur de Preston . 

Auber. 
Masaniello 
Fra Diavolo . 
Le Domino Noir 
La Sirene 

Zanetta .... 
Le Dieu et la Bayadere . 



16 
18 

7 

12 
11 

4 



Le Cheval de Bronze 
Gustave ..... 
Le Serment .... 
Le Philtre .... 
Le Macon .... 
Les Diamants de la Couronne 
Le Lac des Fees 
Haydee ..... 
Le Due d'Olonne . 
Exhibition Overture 
L'Ambassadrice 



APPENDIX II 



411 



La Part du Diable . 


. 11 1 Bralims. 




Les Chaperons blancs 


. 1 


Academic Festival . 


2 


Lestocq .... 


1 


Tragic 


1 


L'Ent'ant Procligue . 


. 1 






Marco Spada . 


. 8 


Brilll. 








Macbeth ..... 


1 


Bach, J. S. 








Overture from Suite in D 


I 


Cherubim. 








Faniska ..... 


9 


Balfe. 




Anacreon .... 


17 


The Bohemian Girl 


. 3 


Les deux Journees . 


10 


The Siege of Kochelle 


. 1 


Les Abencerages 


9 




Medea ..... 


G 


Beethoven. 


! Lodoiska .... 


4 


Fidelio .... 


. 16 Elise 


5 


Leonora, No. 1 


. 7 


L'Hotellerie Portugaise . 


2 


Leonora, No. '2 


. 4 


Ali Baba . . 


2 


Leonora, No. 3 


. 21 


Concert-Overture in G . 


2 


Eginont .... 


. 15 






Coriolan .... 


. 10 


Dietrich. 




Naniensfeier, Op. 115 


. 7 


Normannenfahrt (The Nor- 




"\Veihe des Ilauses, Op. 


mans) ..... 


1 


(Festival) . 
King Stephen . 


. 17 
. 10 


_ 
Donizetti. 




The .Ruins of Athens 


. 3 


La Fille du Regiment 


1 


Prometheus 


. 6 


Dvorak. 




Benedict. 




' Mein Ileim ' . 


1 


The Crusaders 


. 1 


Husitska .... 


1 






Carnival ..... 


1 


Bennett, Stcrndale 




Cornelius, Peter. 




The Wood Nymphs 
The Naiads . 


. 4 
. 4 


Der Barbier von Bagdad 


1 


Parisina . . . 


. 2 


Flotoiv. 




Paradise and the Peri 


. 3 


Stradella .... 


4 


Berlioz. 






2 

1 


Eiibezahl .... 


Les Francs Juges . 


. 3 






Le Carnaval Remain 


. 8 


Gade. 




Benvenuto Cellini . 


. 2 


' Im Hochland ' 


5 


"\V 1 


8 i TTomlot .... 


S 


\\ aveney 
King Lear 


. 2 


Ossian . 
Michael Angelo 


7 
3 


Bishop. 




Nordische Sonnfahrt 


2 


The Miller and his Men . 


. 1 




1 


Bizet. 




Gcrnsheim. 




'Patrie' .... 


. 1 


' Waldmeister's Brautfahrt ' . 


1 


Boieldieu. 




Gluck. 




La Dame Blanche . 


. 9 


Iphigenia in Aulis . 


8 


Le Chaperon Rouge 


. 3 


Goetz. 




Jean de Paris . 
Le Caliphe de Bagdad 
Les deux Nuits 


3 
2 

'. I 


Taming of the Shrew 
Fruhlings-Ouvertiire 


1 
I 



412 



APPENDIX II 



Goldmarlt. 

Sakuntala . . . .2 

' Irn Friihling ' ... 1 

Sappho . . . . .1 

Gounod. 

Mireille 11 

Le Medecin iiialgre lui . .4 
La Nonne Sanglante . . 1 

Grieg. 
' Im Herbst ' . . . .1 

Haydn. 
InD 1 

Halevy. 
L'Eclair 3 

Handel. 

Occasional . . . 2 

Hccld. 
Die Nacht der Willis . . 1 

Humperdinck. 
Hansel und Gretel . . .1 

Her old. 

Le Pre aux Clercs . . .7 
Zarnpa . . . . .14 

Hiller. 

Demetrius . . 1 

Em Traum in der Christnacht 1 

Kretsclimcr. 
Die Folkunger . . .1 

LacJmer, F. 
Overture from ' Suite ' No. 4 . 1 

Lachner, V. 
Loreley 1 

Lindpaintcr. 

Joke 1 

Macfarrcn. 
Chevy Chase . . . 1 

Mackenzie. 
Britannia ... . 1 

Marsclmcr. 

Der Vampyr . . . .3 
Hans Heiling . . . .2 

Masse. 
La Pieine Topaze . . . 1 

Massenet. 
Phedre , . 1 



McJtul. 

La Chasse dujeune Henri . 3 
Joseph . . . . .5 

Mendelssohn. 

A Midsummer Night's Dream 14 
The Hebrides . . .12 

Meeresstille . . . .14 
Melusina .... 7 
Euy Bias . . . .17 

Athalie 11 

Hochzeit des Camacho . . 5 
Trumpet Overture . . .5 

Meyerbeer. 
L'Etoile du Nord . 
Dinorah .... 
L'Africaine 
Exhibition 
Struensee 



Mozart. 

Die Zauberilote 

Don Giovanni 

Le Nozze di Figaro 

La Clemenza di Tito 

II Seraglio 

Idomeneo 

Cosi fan tutte . 

La Vilanella rapita 

Der Schauspiel- Director . 



12 
1 

1 

2 
1 

24 
14 
14 
11 

9 
2 
4 
1 
2 



Nicolai. 
The Merry Wives of Windsor 9 

Onslow. 
Le Colporteur . . .1 

Paer. 
Sargino . . . . .1 

Pauer. 

Festival 1 

Reinccke. 

Manfred .... 2 

Dame Kobold . 1 

Ein Abenteuer Handel's . . 3 
Friedensfeier ... .1 

Itics, Ferdinand. 

Die Rauberbraut . . .1 

Don Carlos . . .1 

Solennelle in E flat . . 1 

Eietz. 

Concert Overture in A . .3 
Lustspiel . ... 1 



APPENDIX II 



413 



Rossini. 




Spontini 




Guillaume Tell 


26 


La Yestale 


19 


Le Siege de Corinthe 


13 


Ferdinand Cortez . 


j. ^ 

12 


Semiramide . 
11 Barbiere 


1C. 
9 


Olympia . 
Nurmahal 


. 13 


Otello 


11 




*j 


La Gazza Ladra 


12 


Sullivan. 




11 Turco in Italia . 


1 


In Memoriam . 


2 


L'ltahaiia in Algeria 




Di Ballo . 


^ 


Tancredi .... 


1 


The Sapphire Necklace . 


. 1 






Macbeth .... 


. 1 


Schneider. 








On ' God Save the Queen ' 


1 


Thomas, Harold. 
As You Like It 


. 1 


Schubert. 




VoTkmann. 




Rosamunde . 


7 


Richard III. . 


2 


Alfonso ed Estrella . 


5 






Fierabras . 


1 


Wagner. 




Die Freunde von Salamanca . 


i 


Tannhauser 


. 1C 


Concert Overture in D . 


^ 


Rienzi .... 


. 4 


Italian in C 


4 


Der Fliegende Hollander 


. 6 


In E minor . 


I 


Lohengrin 


. 11 






Die Meistersinger . 


. r> 


Schumann. 




Tristan und Isolde . 


. 1 


TT . 1 TA il 


O 


Parsifal .... 





jneimann uncl -L/orotnca . . 
Manfred 


3 


Faust .... 


. 1 


Genoveva . 


5 


Wallace, 




Braut von Messina . 


1 


Maritana 


2 


Sjiohr. 




Weber. 




Jessonda .... 


13 


Der Freischiitz 


20 


Faust ..... 


5 


Oberon .... 


30 


Der Alchymist 


1 


Euryanthe 


31 


Pietro d'Albano 


1 


Preciosa .... 


11 


Der Berggeist .... 


1 


Der Beherrscher der Geister 


13 






Jubel .... 


14 


Smctana. 






9 


Lustspiel .... 


5 


Turandot 


4 



MISCELLANEOUS ORCHESTRAL WORKS. 



Bach, J. S. 

' Suite ' in D . 

Pastoral Symphony from 

Christrras Oratorio 
Toccata h? F, instr. by Esser . 

Bazzini. 

Francesca da Rimini, Poeme 
Symphonique 



Beethoven. 
Marcia alia Turca, from ' Ruins 

of Athens ' . 
March and Chorus, ' Crown ye 

the Altars,' ditto . 
Gratulations Menuet 
Triumphal March, from ' Tar- 

peja' . . . . 

Dance, March, Pastorale and 

Finale from ' Prometheus ' . 



414 



APPENDIX II 



Adagio and Andante quasi 
Allegretto, No. 5, from 
' Prometheus ' . .1 

Berlioz. 

Ballet des Sylphes, from Faust 12 
Hungarian March, ditto . . 5 
Pilgrim's March, from Harold 2 
Adagio, from llomeo and Juliet 4 
Scherzo, Queen Mah, from ditto 4 
Piomeo alone, and Fete at 

Capulet's House . . .1 
Scene de Bal, from Symphonie 

Fantastique . . .1 

Scene aux Champs, ditto . 1 

Bizet. 

L'Arlesienne, Suite . . 4 
Roma, Suite . . . .2 
Petite Suite, Jeux il'enfants, 
Op. 22 1 

Bocclicrini. 
Menuetto in A . . .3 

Borodin. 
In the Steppes of Central Asia 2 

Brahms. 

Variations on a Theme by 

Haydn .... 3 

Three Hungarian Dances . 2 

Hungarian Dance in G minor 7 

Two Hungarian Dances, Nos. 5 

and 6 1 

Chabrier. 
Espaiia . . . . .1 

Cherubini. 

Entr'acte and Air de Ballet, 
from Ali Bab a . . .1 

Costa. 

March of the Israelites, from 
Eli 2 

Delibes. 

Suite from Sylvia, Nos. 1, 2, 3 3 
Ditto, ditto, No. 4 . . .3 
Ballad and Air Slave, from 
Coppelia . . . 3 

Dvorak. 
Fihapsodie Slave, No. 1 in D, 

Op. 45 1 

Ditto, ditto, No. 2 inG minor, 

ditto 1 



Pihapsodie Slave, No. 3 in A 

flat, Op. 45 . . . . 2 
Danses Slaves, Book I., Nos. 

1, 3, 4 3 

Danses Slaves, Book I., No. 2 1 
Danses Slaves, Op. 46, Nos. 

5, 6 2 

Danses Slaves, Op. 46, Nos. 

7, 8 1 

Legendes, Op. 55, Nos. 4, 8, 9 2 

Legendes, Op. 55, Nos. 6, 7 . 1 

Legendes, Op. 55, Nos. 1, 10 . 2 

Legendes, Op. 55, Nos 2, 3 . 3 
Legendes, Op. 55, No. 5 . .1 

Scherzo capriccioso . . 1 

Suite in D, Op. 39 . . 2 
Symphonic Variations, in C, 

Op. 78 1 

Fuchs. 

Serenade in C, Op. 11 .1 

German, Ed. 
Three Dances, Henry VIII. . 1 

Glinka. 

Komarinskaja . . .3 

Gluck. 

Ballet Music from ' Paride ed 
Elena' . . . . 1 

Goldmarli. 

Scherzo in E minor . . 1 

Ballet Music, Konigin von 

Saba . . . . .1 

Gounod. 
Pageant March from ' La Eeine 

de Saba ' . . .14 

Danse des Bacchantes, from 

' Philemon et Baucis ' . 12 

Musette from ' Mireille ' . .5 
Ballet Music from ' La Eeine 

de Saba ' . . . .2 
Funeral March of a Marionette 2 
Sarabande from ' Cinq Mars ' . 2 
Ballet Music from ' Polyeucte ' 2 

Grieg. 

The \Vounded Heart . . 1 
Friihling, Melodie in G . .2 

Holberg Suite ... 1 

Suite from ' Peer Gynt,' Op. 46 2 

Second Suite from 'Peer Gynt ' 1 

Suite from ' Sigurd Jorsalfar ' . 2 



APPENDIX II 



415 



Handel. 
The Harmonious Blacksmith 

instru. by Greatorex . . [, 
Concerto Grosso in G minor . 1 
Andante and Finale from Con- 
certo Grosso in B minor . 3 

Haydn. 
Andante in E flat . . .1 

HenscJiel, G. 
Hamlet, Suite, Op. 50 . .1 

Ilillcr. 
The Sentinel . . . 1 

Hof inarm. 
Hungarian Suite 
New Hungarian Dance in F . 
New Hungarian Dance in C 

minor . . . . .1 
' Im Kronungs - Saal ' from 

Hungarian Suite . . .1 

Hulerti. 
Reve et Chasse . . .1 

Jadas-ioJ/n. 

Menuetto and Marcia, from 
Serenade in D . .1 

Kretsclimer. 
Entr'acte in G from ' Die 

Folkunger ' . . . .1 
Coronation March . . .3 

Laclmcr, F. 
Scherzo Pastorale from Suite 

No. 4 in B flat . . .1 
Minuetto and Tema con Varia- 

zioni from Suite . . .1 
March from Catarina Cornaro. 2 

Lalo. 
Scherzo in D minor . . 1 

Leoncavallo. 
Intermezzo from ' Pagliacci ' 1 

Liszt. 
Rhapsodie Hongroise No. 1, 

Rhapsodie Ilongroise, No. 2, 
in D 2 

Rhapsodie Hongroise No. 3, 
in D 1 

Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 4, 
in D minor and G major . 3 



Rhapsodie Hongroise, No. 5, 
(Heroide Elegiaque) . 

Rhapsodie Hongroise No. G 
(Carnaval de Pesth) . 

Les Preludes . 

Festklange . . . ] 

Tasso, Lamento e Trionfo 

Orpheus . 

Mazeppa 

' Ce qu'on entend sur la Mon- 
tague ' i 

MacCunn, Hamisli. 
The Ship o' the Fiend (orches- 
tral ballad) . ... 1 

Mackenzie. 
Ballet and Rustic March from 

' Colomba ' . . . 1 

' La Belle Dame sans Merci ' 

(ballad) ... 1 

Mascagni, Pietro. 

Prelude and Intermezzo, Caval- 
leria Rusticana . . .1 

Massenet. 

Scenes Napolitaines (suite) . 1 
March in D, No. 1, from 

' Scenes Pittoresques ' . .1 
Air de Ballet and Angelus from 

ditto . . . . . 1 
Fete Boheme from ditto . . 1 

MendelssoJin. 

March from ' Athalie ' . 

Wedding March 

Scherzo from ' Reformation 

Symphony ' 
Cornelius March 
Ballet Music from ' Die Iloch- 

zeit des Carnacho ' 
Music to a ' Midsummer N ight's 

Dream ' 

Mcycrlieer. 
Coronation March from ' Le 

Prophete ' . 
Marche aux Flambeaux, in 

Eflat ..... 
March from ' Vielka ' 
Schiller March 
Polonaise from ' Struentee ' 
Ballet Music from ' Le Pro- 

phete ' .... 



12 



416 



APPENDIX II 



Monsigny. 

Chaconne and Kigaudon from 
' Aline .... 1 

MossJcowsM. 
Two Spanish Dances, G minor 

and D major . . .2 
Cortege 1 

Mozart. 

Maurerische Trauernmsik . 1 
Eondo alia Turca (instr. by 

Pascal) .... 1 
Notturno Serenade for Four 

Orchestras, in D . . .1 
Chaconne and Gavotte from 

' Idomeneo ' ... 1 
Eomanza in C from ' Eine 

Kleine Nachtmusik ' . .1 
March in C . . . .8 

Neruda, Franz. 
Aus dem Bohmerwalde, Op. 42 1 

OaTceley, Sir Herbert. 

Pastorale from Suite in D .1 
Ga,votte and Musette from 
ditto 1 

Buff. 

First Movement from Sym- 
phony ' Im "VYalde ' .1 
Reverie and Scherzo from 

ditto 1 

Evening Ehapsodie . . 1 
Fest-Marsch in C, Op. 139 . 1 
' The Mill ' from Quartet in 

G minor .... 1 
Barcarole and Pulcinella from 
Italian Suite . . .1 

Reinccke. 

Entr'acte from ' Manfred ' . 3 
From the Cradle to the Grave 1 

Hheinberger. 
Wallenstein's Camp . . 2 

Rimsky-Korsalioff, N. 
Conte Feerique . . .1 

Rubinstein. 
Ballet Music from ' Feramors,' 

Nos. 1, 2, 3 . . . .4 
Ballet Music from ' Feramors,' 

No. 4 . . 2 



Ballet Music from ' Der 

Damon ' . . . .2 
Ballet Music from ' Nero ' . 2 
Toreador and Andalouse from 

' Bal Costume ' . . .5 
Introduction, Berger and Ber- 
gere, Peleriii and Fan- 
taisie . . . . .1 
Feierlicher Marsch, ' Nero ' . 1 
' Bal Costume ' . . .1 

Saint- Saens. 

Le Eouet d'Omphale . . 3 
Danse des Pretresses, ' Samson 

et Dalila ' . . . .1 
Bacchanale, ditto . . .2 
Danse Macabre . . .2 
Phaeton . . . . .1 
Suite Algerienne . . .1 
Ballet Music from ' Henry VIII' 1 
Orchestral Suite in D . .1 
Serenade . . 1 

La Jeunesse d'Hercule . . 1 

Schubert. 
March in B minor, instr. by 

Liszt 3 

March in C minor, instr. by 

Liszt . . . . .3 
Funeral March in E flat 

minor, instr. by Liszt . 1 

Eeitennarsch in C, instr. by 

Liszt . .... 4 
Entr'actes from ' Eosamunde ' 9 
Andante from ' Symphonic 

Tragique ' . . . .1 

Schumann. 
Bilcler aus Osten, No. 4 . .1 

Smctana. 

Vltava 1 

Vysehrad .... 1 

Sodcrmann. 

Swedish Peasants' Wedding 
March 2 

Spolir. 

Polacca from ' Faust ' . .4 

Larghetto from Third Sym- 
phony 7 

Andante from Symphony in 
D minor . ... 1 

Andante from ' The Power of 
Sound ' 9 



APPENDIX II 



417 



StojoivsM. 
Suite in E flat . . .1 

Stanford Villicrs. 
Prelude to (Edipus Eex . . 1 

Sullivan. 

Procession March . . 2 

Imperial March . . .1 

Svendsen. 
Ehapsodie Norvegienne, No. 1 

in B 1 

Ehapsodie Norvegienne, No 2 

in A 1 

Ehapsodie Norvegienne, No. 3 

in C 2 

Ehapsodie Norvegienne, No. 4 

in D 1 

Intermezzo from Symphony in 

Bflat . . . . ' . 2 

Tcmbert. 
Liebeslied from the Tempest . 8 

Tschaikowsky. 
Marche Slave . ... 1 

Elegia 1 

Ballet Music from Voivode . 1 

Volkmann 
Serenade in F. 
Serenade in D minor 



Wagner. 

March from Tannhauser 
Introduction to Act III. of 

Lohengrin . 
Kaiser- Marsch 
Huldigung's Marsch 
Walkiirenritt . 
Siegfried's Funeral March 
Feuer-Zauber, and Wotan's 

Abschied .... 
Introduction to Act III. of Die 

Meistersinger 
Siegfried Idyll 

Waldweben, from ' Siegfried '. 
Selection from ' Die Meister- 
singer ' 

Charfreitags-Zauber, 'Parsifal ' 
Scene of the Ehine Daughters, 

'Gotterdammerung' . 
Entrance of the Gods into 

Walhalla, < Eheingold ' 
Introduction to 'Tristan und 

Isolde ' 
Introduction and Liebestod 

' Tristan und Isolde ' . 
Triiume ..... 

Weber. 

Invitation a, la Valse, instr. by 
Berlioz 



16 

4 
5 
4 
4 
3 



CONCEETOS, RONDOS, &c. PIANO. 



Bach. 

In C for two Pianos . . 3 
In C minor for two Pianos . 1 
In C for three Pianos . . 1 
In D minor for three Pianos . 2 
In D for Piano, Flute, and 

Violin 1 

Beetlioven. 

No. 1 in C . . . .4 
No. 2 in B flat . . .3 
No. 3 in C minor . . .11 
No. 4 in G . . . . 15 
No. 5 in E flat . . .18 
Choral Fantasia . . .13 
Triple Concerto . . . 11 
Eondo, in B Flat (Posth) . 1 
Adagio and Eondo from Con- 
certo No. 2 . . . .1 
No. 6, in D . . . .1 



Bennett, Sterndale. 
Concerto in F minor . - 1 
Caprice, Allegro giojoso in E . 4 

Brahms. 

No. 2, in B flat . . .1 

Bronsart. 
In F sharp minor . . .1 

Brull 

No. 1. in F . . . .1 
No. 2 in C . . . .1 

Chopin. 

No. 1 in E minor . . .5 
Eomanza and Eondo, from 

No. 1 1 

No. 2 in F minor . . .3 
Andante Spianato and Polo- 
naise in E flat, Op. 22 . .4 

E E 



418 



APPENDIX II 



DusseTc. 
In B flat, for two Pianos . . 2 

Dvorak. 
In G minor, Op. 33 . 3 

Field. 
No. 7 in C minor . . .3 

Gernslicim. 
In C minor . ... 1 

Goets. 
In B flat 1 

Grieg. 
In A minor ... .3 

Godard, B. 
In A minor, Op. 31 . 1 

Hiller. 
In F sharp minor . . .1 

Hiiber. 
In C minor . . . .1 

Hummel. 

In A minor . . . .3 

In B minor . . .2 

In A flat . . . .3 

Rondo brillaiite in A . .1 

Hondo brillante in B Flat . 1 

Litolff. 

Concerto Symphonique in E 

flat 2 

Liszt. 

In A 4 

Fantaisie sur des Airs Hon- 

grois 2 

In E flat 2 

Mendelssohn. 

In G minor . . . .15 
In D minor . . .8 

Serenade and Allegro giojoso . 7 
Hondo brillante in B minor . 10 
Ditto, ditto in E flat . .9 

Mozart. 

No. 2 in A . . . .1 

No. 4 in B flat . . .2 

No. 5 in C . . . . 1 

No. 6 in E flat . . .2 

No. 7 in C minor . . .1 

No. 8 in D minor . . 10 



No. 10 in C . . . .1 

No. 11 in B flat . . .1 

No. 13 in D . . . .1 

No. 15 in B flat . . .2 

No. 16 in C . . . .1 
No. 17 in E flat, for two Pianos 3 

No. 20 in D . . . .1 

For three Pianos, in F . . I 

Paderewski. 

Fantaisie Polonaise . . 1 

Baff. 

In C minor .... 1 

Suite in E flat . . .1 

Menuet and Gavotte from 

Suite, E flat . . .5 

Hheinberger. 

In A flat 1 

Hies. 

Larghetto and Rondo, Con- 
certo, E flat . . . 1 

Rubinstein. 

No. 3 in G major . . .2 

No. 4 in D minor . . .1 

Fantasia in C, Op. 86 .1 

Saint- Saens. 

No. 2 in G minor . . .5 

No. 3 in E flat . . .1 

No. 4 in C minor . . .1 

Schubert. 
Fantasia in C, instr. by Liszt . 3 

Schumann. 

In A minor . . . .14 
Concertstlick, Op. 92 .1 

StojowsJci. 
In F sharp minor . . .1 

Tschaikowsky. 

No. 2 in G (Andante and 

Finale) .... 1 
In B flat minor . . .1 

Volhmann. 
Concertstlick in C, Op. 42 . 1 

Weber. 
In C 2 

In E flat 4 

Concertstiick in F minor . 16 
Polacca in E, instr. by Liszt . 1 



APPENDIX II 



CONCEETOS, RONDOS, &c. 

BacJi, J. S. 

In A minor, Violin . . 2 

In D minor, two Violins . 9 

Air in D, Violoncello . , 2 

Prelude in E, Violin . . 3 

Becker, Hugo. 

Tema con variazioni, Violon- 
cello ..... 1 

Beethoven. 
In D, Violin . . . .17 



Bomanza in G, ditto 
Ditto in F, ditto 



De Beriot. 

Andante and Hondo Russe, 
Violin 1 

Bargiel. 

Adagio, Violoncello . . 1 
Brahms. 

In D, Violin, Op. 77 . . 3 
In A minor, Op. 102, Violin 
and Cello .... 2 

Bruch. 

Concerto in G minor, Violin . 6 
Scotch Fantasia in E flat, 

ditto 1 

Romanza in A minor, Op. 42, 

ditto 2 

Concerto in D minor, ditto . 1 
Adagio appassionata, Op. 57, 

ditto 1 

Kol Nidrei, Violoncello . . 1 

David, F. 
Rondo Capriccioso, Violin . 2 

Davidoff. 
By the Fountain, Violoncello . 1 

Dvorak. 
Concerto, Aminor, Op. 53,Violin 1 

De Swert. 
In C minor, Violoncello . . 1 

Eckert. 
Concerto Violoncello, D Minor 1 



-VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS. 

Ernst. 

Fantaisie sur Othello, Violin . 4 
Concerto in F sharp minor . 1 

Ga.dc. 
Caprice, Violin . . .1 

Goltermann. 
In A minor, Violoncello . . '2 

Haydn. 
In D, Violoncello . . .1 

Joachim. 

Hungarian, Violin . . . B 

In G, ditto . . . .2 

Notturno in E, ditto . . 2 

Variations in E minor, ditto . 1 

Klenrjel. 
Scherzo, Violoncello . . 1 

Kreutzer. 
In D minor, Violin . . 1 

Lalo. 

Symphonic Espagnole, Violin 1 

La ub. 
Polonaise in G, Violin . . 1 

Lipinski. 
Militaire in D, Violin . . 1 

Mackenzie. 

Pibroch, Violin . . .1 
Highland Ballad, ditto . . 1 

Maurer. 
Concerto for 4 Violins . * 1 

Mendelssohn. 
In E minor, Violin . . .14 

Moliquc. 
Fantasia on Austrian Airs, 

Violin 1 

Andante and Finale, Concerto 
in D, Violoncello . . 2 

Mozart. 

In A, Violin .... 2 
In E flat, Violin and Viola . 2 
Andante and Rondo, Concerto 
in D, Violin . . .1 



420 



APPENDIX II 



Adagio in E major, ditto . 2 
In B Hat, Bassoon . . .1 

Ncrittli, F. 

Concertstiick D minor, Vio- 
loncello . . . 1 
Ballade in G minor, Violin . 1 

Paganini. 

Lo Mouvcment perpt'tnel, 
Violin . . . . .1 

Concerto in ]), first move- 
ment . . . . .1 

Piaiti. 

Tn B flat, Violoncello . . 1 
Concertino in A minor, ditto . 2 
Fantasia Romantica, ditto . 1 
Bergamasca, ditto . . .2 

Popper. 

Mazurka in A, Violoncello . 1 
Elf entan;!, ditto . . .1 

Saff. 

Ungarisches, Violin . . 3 
La 1'Ye d' Amour . . .1 

Rode. 
In A minor, Violin . . .3 

Rubinstein, 
In A, Violoncello . . .1 

Sain ton. 
Allegro de Concert, Violin . 1 

Saint-Saens. 

Introduction and Rondo Ca- 
priccioso, Violin . . .3 

Concerto in A minor, Op 33, 
Violoncello .... 1 

Concerto No. 3 in B minor, 
Violin . . . .1 

Sarasatc. 

La Mn'iieira . . 1 

Fantaisie sur Carmen . . 1 

Schumann. 

Fantasia, Op. 131, Violin . 2 
Garten- Melodie and Am 

Springbrunnen, Violin . 2 
Concerto A minor, Op 129, 

Violoncello . . 1 



Spolir. 

Concerto, No. 6 in G minor, 

Violin . ... 4 
Concerto, No. 7 in E minor, 

ditto 4 

Concerto, No. 8 in A minor, 

ditto 9 

Concerto. No. 9 in I) minor, 

ditto . . . , .0 

Concerto, No. 12 in A, Violin . 8 

Adagio from No. 9, . 7 
Allegro from Concerto in G, 

Violin . . . . .1 

Fantasia on Irish Airs, Violin 7 

In B minor, two Violins . 3 

In A ditto . . 2 

Adagio from No. 11, Violin . 1 
Eecit. and Adagio from No, G, 

ditto 1 

Stanford, Villiers. 
Suite in D., Violin, Op. 32 . 1 

Vieuxtemps. 

In A minor, Violin . . .1 
No. 5 in A minor, ditto . . 1 
No. 6 in G, ditto . . .1 
Adagio and Hondo, Concerto 

in E, ditto . . . .5 
Fantasia Appassionata, ditto . 3 
Fantaisie caprice, ditto - . 2 
Ballade and Polonaise, ditto . 3 
Concerto, No. 2, in A, ditto . 1 

Viotti. 

In A minor, Violin . . 6 
Volkmann. 

Concertstiick, A minor, Violon- 
cello 1 

Weber. 
Concertino, Clarinet in E flat . 1 

WieniawsJci, 

Fantaisie sur Faust, Violin . 1 

Second Polonaise in A, ditto . 4 

Legende in G minor, ditto . 2 

Mazurka in G, ditto . . 2 

Airs Busses, Violin . . 1 

Zarzycld. 
Mazurka, Op. 26 . . .1 



APPENDIX II 



SOLOS. PI AX O. 



Bach. 

Fantasia Chromatica and 

Fugue in D minor 
Prelude and Fugue alia Taran- 
tella in A minor . 
Partita in G . 
' Suite Fran raise ' in E . 
Prelude and Fugue in C sharp 

major ..... 
Gavotte I. and II. in B minor 

and D major 
Gavotte and Musette in D 

minor and major. 
Ditto ditto in G minor and 

major . . . . . 
Passepied in B minor and 

major ..... 
Preambulum, Air, Passepied, 

and Gigue in G . 
Partita in B flat; 
Prelude in A minor 

Beethoven. 

Sonata in A, Op. 2, No. 2 
Ditto in E flat, Op. 7 
I )itto in D, Op. 10, No. 3 
1 )itto, Pathetique in C minor . 
Ditto in A flat, Op. 26 . 
Ditto in C sharp minor, Op. 27, 

No. 2 

Ditto in D, Op. 28 . 
Ditto in G, Op. 29, No. 1 
Ditto in D minor, Op. 29, 

No. 2 . 

Ditto in E flat, Op. 29, No. 3 - 
Ditto in C, Op. 53 - 
Ditto in F minor, Op. 57 
Ditto in F sharp, Op. 78 
Ditto in E flat, Op. 81 . 
Ditto in A fiat, Op. 110 . 
Fantasia, Op. 77 .. 
Six Variations in F 
Thirty-three Variations in 

C minor .... 
Selections from Bagatelles 

Brahms. 

Variations on a theme by 

Haydn for two Pianos 
Scherzo, Op. 4 ... 



Hungarian Dances, Nos. 4, G, 7 

Hungarian Dances, No. 8 . 

2 | Ballade, in G minor . . 

Briill. 
Mazurka, from Op. 35 . . 



CJiopin. 

Ma/urka, in B flat, Op. 7, No. 1 4 
Ditto in C sharp minor, Op. 30, 

No. 4 ..... 4 
Ditto, in A flat . . .1 
Ditto, in C, Op. 5G, No. 2 .' 2 
Grande Valse, in E flat, Op. 17 2 
Ditto, in A flat, Op. 34, No. 1 4 
Ditto, in F. Op. 34, No. 3 . 2 
Ditto, in A flat, Op. 42 . .4 
Ditto, in D flat, Op. 04 . .1 
Ditto, in sharp minor, Op. 64 1 
Ditto, in II minor (Posth) . .1 
Polonaise, in A, Op. 40, No. 1 4 
Ditto, in A flat, Op. 53 . .12 
Ditto, in F sharp minor, Op. 44 2 
Nocturne, in B flat minor, Op. 

9, No. 1 . . . .1 
Ditto, in E flat, Op. 9, No. 2 . 2 
Ditto, in B, Op. 9. No. 3 . 1 
Ditto, in F sharp, Op. 15, No. 2 4 
Ditto, in I) flat, Op. 27, No. 2 4 
Ditto, in G minor, Op. 37, No. 1 2 
Ditto, in G major, Op. 37, No. 2 C 
Ditto, in F sharp minor, Op. 

48, No. 2 . . . .1 
Ditto, in F minor, Op. 55, No. 1 5 
Ditto, in E, Op. 02, No. 2 . 6 
Ditto, in F, Op. 15, No. 1 . 1 
Study, in E, Op. 10, No. 3 . 1 
Ditto, in G flat, Op. 10, No. 5 1 
Ditto, in A flat, Op. 25, No. 1 8 
Ditto, in F minor, Op. 25, No. 2 1 
Ditto, in C sharp minor, Op. 

25, No. 7 . . . . 2 
Ballade, in G minor, Op. 23 . 4 
Ditto, in A flat, Op. 47 . . 3 
Second ' Ballade, Op. 38 . 1 
Impromptu in A flat, Op. 29 . 4 
Ditto in F sharp, Op. 36 . 3 
Ditto in G flat, Op. 51 . 1 

Fantasie Impromptu in C 

sharp minor, Op. 06 . .5 



422 



APPENDIX II 



Prelude in D flat, Op. 28, No. 15 2 
Ditto in A flat, No. 17 . .2 
Funeral March from Sonata, 

Op. 35 .... 1 
Scherzo in B flat minor, 

Op. 31 3 

Third Scherzo in C sharp 

minor, Op. 39 . . .2 

Tarentelle in A flat. Op. 43 . 1 
Allegro de Concert in A, 

Op. 46 1 

P>erceuse in D flat, Op. 57 . 8 

Barcarolle in F sharp, Op. 60 3 

Rondo for two pianos . . 1 

Doeliler. 
Study in B, Op. 30. . . 2 

Dupont. 
Staccato perpetuel, Etude . 1 

Field, J. 
Nocturne in E flat . . .2 

GlucTc. 
Gavotte in A, transcribed b} 7 

Brahms . . .4 

Menuetto Gracioso and Tam- 

bourin, ditto by Halle . 3 

Ballo and Bourree, ditto ditto 3 

Grieg. 

Aus clem Volksleben, Op. 19 
(Nos. 1 and 2) . . .1 

Halle. 

Impromptus in B minor and 
F major . . 1 

Handel. 

The Harmonious Blacksmith 4 
Suite in D minor . . .1 
Gigue in G minor . . .2 

Haydn. 
Fantasia in G . . .1 

Heller, St. 

1 La Chasse,' Study in E flat . 2 

Caprice sur ' La Truite,' Op. 33 5 
Studies in B flat and in B, 

Op. 46 1 

' Promenades d'un Solitaire,' 

Op. 78, No. 1 . .5 

Ditto ditto, Op. 78, No. 4 . 3 
' Wanderstunden,' Op. 80, 

No. 2 . . . . , G 



Prelude in D flat, Op. 81 . 3 
' Nuits Blanches ' in E, Op. 82 4 
Ditto in G flat, Op. 82 , .1 
Tarentelle in A flat, Op. 66, 

No. 1 4 

Ditto in E minor for 2 pianos 1 
' Dans les Bois,' in E, Op. 86, 

No. 3 4 

' Lieder ohne Worte,' Op. 120, 

Nos. 2, 4, 7 . . . .1 
Impromptu in C sharp minor, 

Op. 129, No. 2 . . .1 
Transcription of ' The Hurdy 
Gurdy Player,' ' The Butter- 
fly,' and ' Wandering ' . 2 

Hcnselt. 

Study in F sharp, Op. 2, No. 6 5 
' Berceuse ' in G flat . .2 
Toccata in C minor . . 1 
Nocturne, La Gondole . . 1 

Hofmann, J. 
Romanza and Valse . . 1 

Liszt. 
Rhapsodie Hongroise in F 

sharp, No. 8. . . .6 
Ditto ditto in D flat, No. 12 . 4 
Ditto ditto in E, No. 1 . .1 
Ditto ditto, No. 2 . . .1 
Grand Hungarian March in 

A minor . . . .2 
Marches Hongroises, D flat, 

C sharp . . . .1 
Ditto ditto, B flat . . .1 
' Dans les Bois,' study . . 1 
' Ronde des Lutins,' study . 1 
' Legende de St. Francois 

d'Assises ' . . . .1 
Tarentelle by Rossini, tran- 
scription . . .1 
Finale from ' Lucia ' in D flat. 1 
Fantasia on ' Rigoletto ' . .1 
Spinnerlied from ' Flying 

Dutchman ' . . . .4 
Chant Polonais . . .1 
Study in E flat . . .1 
Ditto in G sharp major (Cam- 

panella) . . .1 

Ditto in D flat . . .1 
Isolden's Liebestod . . 1 

Tarentella de Bravura . . 1 
Waldesrauschen, Study in D flat 1 
Polonaise in E 1 



APPENDIX II 



42! 



Liszt and Chopin. 
Chant Polonais in G flat . 1 

Liszt and Schubert. 

' Soirees deVienne ' in A minor 11 
Ditto ditto in D . . .1 
Ditto ditto in E . .2 

Ditto ditto in A flat . . 1 
' Serenade ' in D minor . . 2 
' Das Lob der Thriinen ' in D . 3 
Barcarolle in A flat minor . 2 
' Du bist die Ruh ' . . .1 
'Erlkonig' .... 3 

Liszt and David. 
' Ungariscb.es ' in A . .1 

Liszt and Paganini 
Caprice in E . . . .2 
' La Campanella ' . . .1 

Mendelssohn. 
Andante and Rondo Capric- 

cioso . . . .4 
Caprice in F sharp minor, Op. 5 1 
Ditto in A minor, Op. 33, No. 1 1 
Ditto in E, Op. 33, No. 3 . 3 
Prelude and Fugue in E minor, 

Op. 35, No. 1 . . .4 
Characteristic piece in E, 

Op. 7, No. 7 . . .1 
Ditto ditto in A, Op. 7, No. 4 . 1 
Ditto ditto in D, Op. 7, No. 3 . 1 
Variations Serieuses in D 

minor . . . 1 
Selections from ' Lieder ohne 

Worte' . . -11 
' Lieder ohne Worte,' Book 

VIII 3 

Scherzo in E minor, Op. 16 . 1 

Moszkowslii 

Tarentelle in G flat, Op. 27 . 2 
Mozart. 

Gigue in G . 1 

Rondo alia Turca from Sonata 

in A 2 

Fantasia in C minor 

Sonata in D, for two Pianos . 1 

Nicode. 
Tarentelle . . 1 

Padercwski. 
Minuet " 



Ret/mean. 

Musette and Tambourin in E 1 
Variations in A minor . . 1 

Raff. 

Menuet and Tambourin from 
Op. 204 .... 
Prelude and Fugue in E minor 1 
La Fileuse .... 1 

Rheinberger. 

Wanderlied in E . . .1 
Jagdsttick in E flat . . 1 

Rubinstein. 

Valse in A flat, from ' Le Bal ' 1 
Valse Allemande . . .1 

Scarlatti. 

Harpsichord Lessons in G, D, 
and G . . . .8 

Schubert. 
Moment musical in F minor, 

Op. 94, No. 3 . -3 

Impromptu in A flat, Op. 142, 

No. 2 

Ditto in B flat, Op. 142, No. 3 
Ditto in F minor, Op. 142, 

No. 4 

Andante in E, from Op. 164 . 
Clavierstuck in E flat minor 
Fantasia in C, Op. 15 
Impromptu in G, Op. 90, No. 3 

Sapellnihoff. 
Valse 

Schumann. 

' Carneval,' Op. 9 . 
Arabesque ' in C . 
Novelette, Op. 21, No. 1, in 1 
Ditto in D 
Ditto in E 
Ditto in B minor . 
First movement from ' Hu- 
mor eske . 
Romanza in F sharp 
' Vogel als Prophet ' 
' Jagdlied ' 
' Des Abends ' Phantasiestiick 
' Grillen,' ditto 
'Warum'? . 
' Traumeswirren . 
' Papillons,' Op. 2 . 
Nachtstiick in F 



424 



APPENDIX II 



Gavotte 



Silas. 



StojoivsJii. 



Prelude, Valse, and Cosaque 
Fantastique . . .1 

Thaller g. 

Andante in D flat, Op. 32 . 2 
Stitdy in A minor, Op. BO . 6 
Fantasia on ' Mose in Egitto,' 

Op. 33 .... 2 
Finale di Lucia, Op. 43 . .1 
' Home, sweet Home ' .7 

Funeral March in B flat minor 1 



Momento Capriccioso . . 1 
Adagio and Rondo from 

Sonata, Op. 24 . .1 

Rondo from Op. 24 
Menuetto from Sonata, Op. 24 
Scherzo and Rondo from 

Op. 39 .... 3 
Sonata in D minor, Op. 42 . 3 
Rondo brillante in E flat, 

Op. 62 . . . .1 
Invitation a la Valse, Op. 65 . 5 
Polacca in E, Op. 72 .3 

Zimmermann. 
Gavotte in E minor 1 



SOLOS, VARIOUS INSTRUMENTS. 



Ariosti, Attilio. 

Largo and Allemande, Violon- 
cello 1 

Bach. 

Chaconne, Violin . . .7 
Prelude and Fugue in G minor, 

ditto 1 

Adagio and Allegro in C ditto . 3 
Prelude in E, ditto . . . 2 
Menuet and Gavotte in E, 

ditto 1 

Bourree and Double in B 

minor, ditto . . .1 
Prelude and Bourree in C, 

Violoncello . ... 1 
Sarabande and Gavotte in D, 

ditto 1 

Ditto, Violoncello . . .1 

Bargiel. 
Adagio, Violoncello, Op. 38 . 1 

Belloli. 

Quartet, four Horns . . 1 
Boccherini. 

Sonata in A, Violoncello . 2 
Largo in C, ditto . . .1 

Brahms. 

Hungarian Dances, Violin 
(Joachim) .... 1 



Hungarian Dances, Violin 
(Joachim) Nos. 17, 18, 20, 15 2 

Fitzenhagen. 

Perpetuum Mobile, Violon- 
cello 1 

Joachim. 

Romanza in B flat, Violin . 3 
Ditto from Hungarian Con- 
certo, ditto . . 1 



Handel. 

Sonata in A, Violin 
Ditto in D, ditto . 



Leclair. 

Sarabande and Tambourin, 
Violin 3 

Locatelli. 
Sonata in D, Violoncello . 2 

Marcello. 
Sonata in F, Violoncello . 2 

Mendelssohn. 
Sonata in F minor, Organ . 1 

Nardini. 
Andante, Violoncello . . 1 



APPENDIX II 



425 



Nessera, Josef. 
Eldoge in G, Violin 

Paganini. 

Caprice in A minor, Violin 
Le Mouvement Perpetuel, 

ditto 

Le Streghe, ditto . 

Piatti. 

Siciliana in A minor, Violon- 
cello ..... 
Ossian's Song, ditto 

Popper. 

Feuillet d' Album in B flat, Cello 
Mazurka in D, ditto 
Nocturne, ditto 

Minuet and Spinnlied, ditto . 
Tarentelle, ditto 

Raff. 
Cavatina, violin 

Ries, Franz. 

Mouvement Perpetuel in G, 
from 1st Suite, Violin. 

Sarasate. 

Spanish Dances, Violin . 
Malaguena and Habanera, ditto 



Schumann. 

1 Abendlied, Violin . 
Ditto, Violoncello . 



SpoJw. 

Barcarole in G, Violin . . 13 
Scherzo in I), ditto . . 2 
Adagio and Finale, from Duet 

in D, two Violins . . 1 
Duet in G minor, Op. G7, 

No. 3, ditto .... 1 
Duet in D for two Violins . 2 

Stanford, Villicrs. 

Three Irish Fantasias, La- 
ment, Hush Song, and Reel, 
Violin . . . . .1 

Tartini. 

Le Trillc du Diable, Violin . 5 

Ver acini. 

Largo and Gigue, Violoncello . 2 
Vicuxtcinps. 

Reverie in E flat, Violin 

Tarentelle in A minor, ditto . 2 

Air Bohc'mien, ditto . . 1 

Air Varie in D, ditto . 2 

' Voix du Coeur,' ditto . . 1 



CONCERTED INSTRUMENTAL WORKS. 



Bacli. 



DusseJi. 



Sonata in A, Piano and Violin 2 Andante and Rondo, from 

Sonata B ilat, Piano and 
BeetJiovcn. 



Quintet in E flat, Op. 16 . 1 
Septet, Op. 20 . . .2 
Sonata in G, Op. 30 
Kreutzer Sonata, Op. 47 
Andante con Variazioni, from 

Op. 47 .... 11 

Ottetto in E flat, Op. 103, wind 

instruments . . -1 

Chopin. 

Grande Polonaise, Piano and 
Violoncello, in C, Op. 3 . 1 

Chopin and Franchomme. 
Duo sur Robert le Diable, 
Piano and Cello . . -1 



Violin . . . . -2 

Dvorak. 

Four Romantic Pieces, Piano 
and Violin .... 1 

Grieg 

Sonata, Piano and Violin . 1 

Heller and Ernst. 

' Pensees fugitives,' Piano and 
Violin . . -2 

Hummel. 

Andante and Scherzo, from 
Septet, Op. 74 . . .1 



426 



APPENDIX II 



Mendelssohn. 

Tema con Yariazioni in D, 
Piano and Violoncello . 3 

Mozart. 

Serenade in E flat, wind in- 
struments .... 1 
Ditto in B flat, ditto . . 2 
Ottetto in C minor, ditto . 1 
Sonata in D, Op. 10, Piano 

and Violin .... 1 
Andante with Variations, from 

Sonata in F, ditto . . 4 

Duet in G, Violin and Viola . 1 

ReicJia. 

Quintet. E flat, wind instru- 
ments 1 

SchubeTt, 

Andante and Scherzo from 
Ottetto 1 



Rondo brillante in B minor, 
Piano and Violin . . 5 

Grand Fantasia, Piano and 
Violin, in C, Op. 159 . .1 

Schumann. 

Stiicke im Volkston in A 
minor and F, Piano and 
Violoncello . ... 1 

Mahrchenbilder, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 
ditto 1 

Three Fantasiestiicke, Op. 73, 
Piano and Violin . . 1 

Spolir. 

Notturno fiir Janitscharen 
Musik, Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4 . . 1 

Weber. 

Duet in E flat, Op. 48, Piano 
and Clarionet 1 



INDEX 



ADAM, 217 

Adelaide, 880 

Aide, Hamilton, 346 

Africa, South, 178 

Alarcl, 70. 91, 92, 361 

Alice, H.R.H, Princess, 277, 279 

Altena, 49, 291 

Altgelt, Fran, 191, 2 .VI 

Alt gelt, Minna, 254. 

Anderson, Mr., 250 

Armingand, 92 

Arolsen, 10 

Artot, ">6 

Ashdown, Edwin. 331 

At hole, Duel less of, 295 

Atleau, 200, 203 

Atiber, 90 

Australia, 178 



BACH, J. Sob., 41, 72, 123, 30-1, 3G7 

Baden Baden, 257 

Baden-Powell, Captain, 385 

Baetens, Charles, 145 

Balfe, 79 

Ballarat, 372 

Balzac, 154 

Barring! on, Lady Caroline, 295 

Batfa, 56 

Bayreuth, 62, 310 

Beatrice, H.li.H. Princess, 294 

Becker, Dr. Ernst, 62, 277 

Becker, Miss Lydia, 38(1 

Beethoven, 9, 10, 29, 35, 38, 40, 41, 
44,53, 76, 84, 85, 103, 123, 128, 
131, 166, 191, 194,197,256,261, 
263, 300, 303, 306, 326, 329, 354, 
356, 358, 360, 388 

Belgiojoso, Princess, 90 

Belletti, 136, 284 

Bellini, 122 

Benedict, Sir Julius. 109, 234, 247, 
308 



Bennett, Mr., 296 

Bennett, Sterndale, 109, 266 

Benzon, Mrs., 165 

Berlioz, 38, 14, 56, 64, 73, 86, 102, 

138, 154, 167, 168, 242, 247, 250, 

257, 259, 292, 353 
Berlioz, Madame, 65 
Bertin, Armand, 69, 77, 105 
Bertin, Mile. Louise, 98 
Bert on, 42 

Best, Mr., 354, 377, 385 
Biddulph, Sir Thomas, 295 
Blagrove, 365 
Blanc, Louis, 77 
l.lessinyton. Lady, 83 
' Blind Tom,' 298' 
Bliss, Mr., 344 
Bodda, Frank, 365 
Boehni, Sir Edgar, 347 
Bolm, 248 
Bonhcur, Hosa, 362 
Bonn Festival, 86 
Boult, Mr. A., 392 
Brahms, 167, 303, 326, 369 
Brendschedt, Christina, 49, 215 
Brisbane, 382 
Briscoe, Captain, 372 
liroadwood, 109, 267, 292, 388 
Brougham, Lord, 104 
Browning, Kobert, 105, 126, 162, 

265, 300, 314 

Bruce, Lady Augusta, 276 
Briil 1, Lrnnz, 304 
Billow, Hans von, 303, 30 1 
Bunsen, Chevalier de, 104 
Burdekin, Mr., 377 
Burdekin, Mrs., 377, 379 
Burne- Jones, Sir Edward, 162 
Bury, Mile. Agnes, 120 



CADENZAS.' 263 

Cambridge, H.R.H. Duke of, 103 



428 



INDEX 



Cameron, Mr., 394 

Capetown, 396 

Caradori, Madame, 120 

Carafa, 76 

Carrington, Lord, 376,378 

Carrington, Lady, 370, 378, 385 

Carrodus, 354 

Casey, Judge, 373 

Cassel, 11, 45 

Cavendish, Miss, 295 

Chappell, Messrs, 136, 260, 269,271, 

360 

Chateau d'Eu, 90 
Cherubini, 42, 72, 149, 190, 196 
Chopin, 31, 33, 70, 77, 92, 111, 123, 

198, 202, 207, 209, 223, 229, 248, 

261, 300, 304, 306, 326, 3(52 
Chorley, H. F., 37, lOrt, 127, 136, 

137/233,242,216, 249, 266, 269, 

273, 359 

Clarke, Sir William, 369 
Clarke, Lady, 371 
Clausen, Mile., 250 
Clementi. 41 
Cobden, Richard, 104 
Cockburn, Sir Alexander, 106, 165, 

176 

Coleridge, Lord, 106, 176 
College of Music, Royal, Manchester, 

149, 158, 353, 363, 403 
Collins, Wilkie, 105 
Colombo, 394 
Conradi, 14 
'Conservatoire' Concerts, 53, 84. 

Ill, 334 

Consort, H.R.H. Prince, 86, 90, 177 
Constable, Sir Clifford, 160 
Copenhagen, 302 
Cossmann, 257 
Costa, Sir Michael, 102, 127, 266, 

308 

Couppey, L., 336 
Cowell, Sir John, 293 
Cowes, 161, 274, 293 
Crawshay, Mr., 346 
Cruvelli, Mile., 248 
Cuzner, 358 
Czartoriska, Princess, 89 



DAMCKE, Madame, 154 

Danton, 257 

Darmstadt, 17, 28, 71, 74, 181, 204, 

278 

David, 255 

Davies, Miss Mary. 167, 306 
Davison, Henry, 109, 242, 249 
De Beriot, 361, 363 



De Jong, 145 

Delacroix, 77 

Delsa.rte, 56, 76 

Denmark, H.M. the King of, 302 

Denmark, H.M. the Queen of, 303 

Devonshire, Duke of, 252 

Dickens, Charles, 105, 126 

Dickens, William, 147 

Dolby, Miss, 358 

Donizetti, 99, 122 

D'Orsay, Count, 83 

Doyle, Richard, 129, 161, 162, 175, 

251 

Dreyschock, Alexander, 82 
Dudley, Lord, 136 
Dufferin, Marquess of, 344, 347 
Dulcken, Madame, 234 
Duller, Ed., 202 
Dumas, Alexandra, 77, 91, 154 
Dussek, 41, 123, 300 
Diisseldorf, 153, 289 
Dvorak, 167 
Dyer, Mr., 400 



ECKERT, 239, 248 

Edinburgh, 123, 177, 348 

Eichthal, Baron, 219, 223 

Klberfeld, 16 

Elbers, Edward, 9, 41, 184, 193,203, 

222 

' Elijah,' 365 

Ella, John, 103, 112, 247, 249, 359 
Emm Pasha, 371, 382 
England, first visit to, 79 
Erard, 91, 3fi2, 405 
Ernst, 56, 77, 80, 84, 112, 115, 124, 

147, 236, 239, 244, 248, 250, 269 
Ewart, H., 394 
Ewart, Mrs. H., 380 



N, Sir Thomas, 128, 251 
Fairbairn, Sir William, 281 
' Faust,' 306, 349 
Fetis, Professor, 197 
Field, John, 17 
Fischer, Mile., 243 
Fitzherbert, Mr., 79 
Flashoff, Louis, 182, 185, 193, 215 
Flower, Mrs. Cyril, 346 
Fliiss, Cornelius, 18, 47, 202, 253, 

280, 300 

Formes, Carl, 120, 122, 259 
Forsyth, 132, 148, 321, 333 
Foss, Herr von, 371 
Franchomme, 36, 70, 91 
Frankfort, 71, 96 



INDEX 



420 



168, 



GABRIEL. Miss Virginia, 247 

Garle, 302, 353, 355 

Garcia, Manuel, 155, 175, 178. i 

Gathy, Angu^te, 361 

Geelorig, 372 

Geeong Tarr, 380 

Gelinek, Abbe, 7 

' Gentlemen's Concerts,' 37, 1 1 1 

Germany, H.I.M. Emperor of, 

315 

Glover, Mr., 230 
Glue,k, 44, 72, 91, 1136, 137, 140, 

25 S 

Goddard, Miss Arabella, 250 
Goldschmidt, E., 398 
Gounod. 24-2, 308, 327 
Gouvy, 248 
Grahamstown, 390 
Griffin, 79 

Grirnshawe, Mrs., 344 
Grisi, Madame. 11 1 
Grosse, 354 

Grosvenor Gallery, lf>5, 302 
Grove. Sir George, 308 
Ouibert, M., 41, 93, 123 
Guizot, 77, 91, 10(5 
Gunton, Mr., 358 



HABEXECK, 66, 84 

Hagen, 4, 5, 13. 48, 153, 255,280, 

290, 302, 305, 307, 310 
Halevy, 40, 43, 77 
Halle, Anna, 185, 210, 397 
Halle, Bernhard, 185, 201, 210, 237, 

244 
Halle, Caroline, nee Brcndschedt, 2, 

48, 236, 251, 255, 285, 290, 305 
Halle, Desiree, nee Smith de Kilien, 

70, 173, 176, 231, 25(3. 264, 276 
Halle, Frederick, 2, 45, 106, 180, 185, 

192, 196, 201. 206 
Halle, Lady, 167, 171, 178, 350, 369, 

377, 388, 398 
Handel, 5, 168 
Hanslick, 304 

Harkort, Gustav, 50, 219, 225 
Hastings, Lady, 127 
Havelock, General, 251 
Havelock, Sir Henry, 394 
Haydn, 9, 17, 41, 123, 253, 304, 353 
Hayes, Catherine, 136 
Hecht, Edward, 11(5, 333, 367 
Heine, Heinrich, 57, 77, 155, 364 
Heinefetter, Mile., 12, 45 
Helena, H.K.H. Princess, 293 
Heller, Stephen, 47, 52, 77, 92, 94, 

123, 154, 156, 161, 170, 175, 240, 



215, 217, 248, 250, 259, 263 T,- 

292, 297, 300, 311, 343, 358,' 304 ' 
Kelmesberger, 304 
Hely-Hutchinson, Sir Walter, 401 
Henschel, Georg, 167 
Herbert of Lea, Lady, 344 
Hermann, Zeugher. Ill 
Herz, Henri, 12, 219 
Hesse-Darmstadt,Grand Duke of. 74 
Hesse- Darmstadt, Prince Alexander 

74 
Hesse-Darmstadt, Prince Louis, 277, 

279 

Higgins, Henry, 355, '500 
Hiller, Ferd., 71, 190, 198, 238, 246, 

323 

Hilton, Mr., 167 
Hohen-Limburg, Prince of, 21 
Hopetoun, Lord, 36*. I! 70 
Hopetoun, Lady, 368, 370 
Huddersfield Festival, 306 
Hugo, Victor, 154 
Humboldt. Alex, von, 100 
Hummel, 10,12, 17, 41, 123, 300 



INGRES, 77, 78, 153 



JACOBY, S., 145 
Janin, Jules, 77 
Joachim, 8, 162, 174, 256. 264,271, 

284, 350 

Johannesburg, 178, 401 
Jullien, 102, 250, 354 



KALKBRENNER, 17, 30, 40, 108, 192, 
194, 198, 202, 207, 211, 224, 229, 
300 

Kaufmann, Mr., 239, 245 

Kenible, Mrs. Fanny, 174 

Reunion, Mrs , 392 

Kingwilliamstown, 399 

Kintore, Lord, 390 

Kintore, Lady, 390 

Knowles, John, 121. 353 

Koch, Herr, 190, 193, 206, 211, 254 

Kossuth, 123 

Kringel, Dr., 202 

Kru'scr, President, 402 

Kullak, 367 



LABLACHE. Ill 
Lacombe, Louis, 16 
Lake, Mr., 295 
Lamartine, 77, 91, 96 



430 



INDEX 



Lansdowne, Marquis of, 251 

Lazarus, 137 

Ledru-Rollin, 77, 91 

Lehmann, F., 272 

Lehmann, Mrs. F., 165 

Lehmann, Henri, 307 

Leighton, Lord, 106, 1G2, 1G5, 314 

Leipzig, 304 

Leo XIII., Pope, 347 

Leo, Auguste, 32, 100 

Leo, Hermann, 107. 230, 231 

Leopold, H.R.H. Prince. 294 

Liechtenstein, Georg, 123, 313, 318, 

343 
Lind, Jenny, 113, 140, 284, 359, 

360 
Liszt, 37, 70, 77, 85, 86, 198, 207, 

226, 311, 331, 332, 354, 358, 406 
Liverpool, 111. 115 
Lloyd, Edward, 167, 306 
Loc'key, Mr., 358 
London, 79, 81, 102, 112, 123, 133, 

247, 308 

Louis Philippe, King, 90, 95 
Louviers, 303 
Lumley, 246 



MACFARREN, George, 82, 133 

Mainzer, Abbe, 199, 209 

Mallet, 32, 99 

Manchester, 37, 107, 109, 112, 116, 

120, 124, 128, 130, 144, 148, 229 
Mangold, 191, 192, 194, 204, 221 
Manning, Miss, 365 
MarcelL', 72 
Marie, 'Maine,' 77, 91 
Mario, 111 
Marschner, 356 
Massart, 88, 250 
Masse, Victor, 133, 337 
Maupassant, Guy de, 332 
Mayence, 71 
Mayseder, 39 
Menu], 357, 359, 361 
Meiningen, Duke of, 303 
Melbourne, 367 
Melville, Lady Susan, 295 
Mendelsohn, 35, 71, 92, 123, 168, 

261, 263, 354, 358, 364 
Messent, Miss, 358 
Meyer, Adolf, 149 
Meyerbeer, 40, 70. 77, 127, 190, 218, 

223, 247, 266, 356 
Millais, Sir John, 162. 265 
Miolan-Carvalho, Madame, 258 
Molique, 124, 249, 272, 354, 357, '358, 

360, 363 



Moscheles, 108 
Moscheles, Madame, 108 
Mottez, Victor, 49, 153, 155 
Mozart, 9, 17, 35, 41, 123, 127, 263, 

266, 304, 354, 367 
Miiller, Baron von, 373 
Munich, 310 
Musset, Alfred de, 154 



NAPLES, 344 
Napoleon, Prince, 82 
Nery, Casimir, 92 
Newton, Sir Charles, 346 
Noer, Count dc, 382 
Norman, Sir Henry, 383, 385 
Nottebohm, 304, 339 
Novello, Clara. 79 



ODILLON-BAREOT, 77 
Onslow, 194 

Osborne, 212, 227, 229, 361 
Otter, 367 



PADEREWSKI, 350 

Paganini, 62, 66 

Palestrina, 72 

Parepa. Madame, 133, 134 

Paris, 29, 30, 70, 91, 93, 153, 207, 

215, 216, 227 
' Parsifal,' 310 
Paul, Jean, 366 
Peacock, Mr., 364 
Perthuis, Comte de, 32 
'Pianoforte School, Practical,' 149, 

369 
Piatti, 112, 115, 124, 126, 136. 165, 

174, 257, 271, 350, 356, 358, 362 
Pietermaritzburg, 401 
Pillet, 229 

Pinschotf, Carl, 369, 389, 392 
Pixis, 229 

Ploennies, Herr von, 202 
Ploennies, Frau von, 203 
Pohl, 303 
Pompeii, 345 
Poole, Miss, 365 
Poole, Mr., 367, 392 
Port Elizabeth, 397 
Prague, 306 
Preston Guild, 308 
Pretoria, 402 

Prinsep, Mr. and Mrs., 162, 267 394 
Procter, Mrs., 165 
Prudent, 229 
Prussia, King of, 86 



INDEX 



431 



Prussia, Prince Ferdinand of, 194 
Pupil, an eccentric, 117 



RAMEAU, 123 

Reeves, Sims, 133, 134, 136, 1G8 

Eeicha, 188, 194, 197 

Reichardt, 120 

Reissiger, 10 

Renshaw, Mr... 242, 355 

Revelstoke, Lady, 165 

Richardson, 145 

Richter, Hans, 304 

Ries, Ferdinand, G. 10, 12, 17, 21!) 

Einck, 17, 27, 42, 74, 183, 185, 187, 

192, 197,207 225, 406 
Eochefort, Comtesse de, 75 
Rome. 152, 343 
^o.-e, Mr., 375, 388 
Rossetti, 162 
Rossini, 44, 99 
Rubinstein, 37, 2(51, 329 
Kudersdorff, Madame, 120, 358 
Piuland, Dr., 276 
Ruskin, John, 163 
Russell of Killowen, Lord, 176 
Russia, Crown Princess of, 74 



SAHL, Dr., 293 

Sainton, 124, 136, 246, 266, 362, 

365 

Sainr-Saens, 167, 334 
Salvandy, M. de, 77, 91 
Sand, George, 91 
Santley, 133, 134, 136, 306, 368 
Sarcey, Francisque, 331 
Sartoris, Edward, 105, 165, 265 
Sartoris, Mrs., 37, 105, 165, 247 
Saxe-Weimar, Grand Duke of, 74 
Scarlatti. 123 

Scheffer, Ary, 77, 78, 91, 247 
Scherch, Herr, 373 
Schindler, A., 405 
Schlesinger, Maurice, 40, 59, 199, 

2u7 

Schott, 192, 198 
Schroeter, Baron von, 295 
Schubert, 53, 112, 123, 161, 326, 

354 

Schulz, Frau, 201 
Schumann, 92, 123, 261, 355, 3G6 
Schuster, F. Leo, 346 
Scott, Professor, 361, 363 
Scribe, 154 

Selttinghaus, 222, 228 
Senior, Mrs. Nassau, 251 
Seyfried, 196 



Seymour, Charles, 145 
Seymour, General, 2!)5 
bherrington, Madame Lemmens 

133, 134 
' Siegfried,' 311 
Sivell, Mr.. 3H4 
Sivori, 79, 246, 257 
Smith de Rilieu, Madame, 70 
Smith, E. T., 133 
Soligny, M. de, 96 
Sontag, Madame, 243, 246 
Souchay, Charles, 364 
Spohr, 5, 11, 12, 45, 127, 360, 388 
Spontini, 44, 154, 196 
Stanley, H. M., 371, 382. 386 
Stephen, Sir Alfred, 380 
Stern, Sigismund, 244, 246, 355 
Stigelli, 243 
Stockhaus, Hofrsilhin, 182, 184, 187 

193 

Stock hausen, 239 
Story, Mrs., 346 
Straus, L., 151, 167, 174, 309, 341, 

349 

Sullivan, Sir Arthur, 273 
Swain, Charles, 363 
Swinburne, 162 
Sydney, 377 



TAGLIONI, Madame, 94 
Tarnberlick, 243 
Tar rant, Dr., 38(5 
Tennyson, Lord, 126, 162 
Thackeray, 105, 126 
Thalberg, 39, 164, 229, 241, 363 
Th'ers, 94 
Ihiers, Madame, 94 
Thomas, Lewis, 136, 358 
Titiens, Madame, 136 
Tolbecque, 354 
Toole, J. L., 368, 385 
Toole, Rev. Canon, 289, 356 
Trebizond, Bishop of, 344 
' Tristan und Isolde,' 311 
Tulau, 7 



UrtnAN, 85 



VEENET, Horace, 91 

Viardot, Madame, 247 

Victoria, H.M. Queen, 86, 90, 12S, 

177, 279, 293 

Vienna, 192, 195, 303, 306, 310 
Vieuxtemps, 124, 250, 256 
Volkmann, Robert, 325 



432 



INDEX 



WAGNER, 59, 77, 139, 257, BOO 
Wales, H.R.H. the Prince of, 178, 

276, 308 
Wales, H.R.H. the Princess of, 178, 

276, 302 

Walker, Fred, 162 
Wallace, 'Amber Witch,' 133 
Warsash, 165, 340 
Watts, 105, 102, 251, 207 268 
Way, Chief Justice, 390, 
Weber, C. M. von, 41, 12: 
Weber, Gottfried, 13, 2b, 42, 188, 

193 
Weigl, 15 



Wieniawski, 256, 258 
Wiesbaden, 71 
Wild, 12, 45 
Wilkinson, Miss, 365 
Wilson, Mr., 374 
Wilson, Mrs., 385 
Wilton, Earl of, 160, 347 
Wiseman, Cardinal, 252 
Wolff, 257 
Worcester, 114 



YOKKE, Fon. Mrs. Eliot, 3i6 



PIUN-rED BY 

AND co., NEW-STREET SQUARE 

LONDON' 



PLEASE DO NOT REMOVE 
CARDS OR SLIPS FROM THIS POCKET 

UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO LIBRARY 



ML 

422 

HU3 



Music 



Halle*, (Sir) Charles 

Life and letters of Sir 
Charles Halle 





JS8 STRAND, r.c 

''.." 



