Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Digitized  by 


LOUIS  SPOHR’S  AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Attention  Reader: 


This  volume  is  too  fragile  for  any  future  repair. 
Please  handle  with  great  care. 

UNIVERSITY  OF  MICHIGAN  LIBRARY-CONSERVATION  & BOOK  REPAIR 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


LOUIS  SPOHR’S  AUTOBIOGRAPHY. 

i 


TRANSLATED  FROM  THE  GERMAN. 


COPYRIGHT  EDITION. 


LONDON: 

LONGMAN,  GREEN,  LONGMAN,  ROBERTS,  & GREEN. 

1865. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


. S7£> 

A3<>  3 


Digitized  by 


2>kV 


w . 


iCaSict-*t 

(•fames 

S-3-S6 

00^1(1 


PREFACE. 


IN  publishing  an  English  translation  of  the_  unadorned  yet 
highly  interesting  Autobiography  of  the  celebrated  Violinist 
and  great  Composer  Louis  Spohr,  we  consider  we  are  but 
satisfying  a natural  desire  on  the  part  of  his  many  admirers 
in  this  country  to  become  more  intimately  acquainted  with  both 
the  public  and  private  life  of  this  great  musical  genius  — 
this  noble,  manly  character,  in  whom  were  combined  in  so 
high  a degree  the  qualities  of  the  true  artist  with  those  of 
the  really  great -minded  and  thoroughly  good  man. 

Although  nearly  twelve  years  have  elapsed  since  Spohr’s 
last  appearance  in  England,  and  during  that  time  numberless 
foreign  artists  of  distinction  have  visited  us  and  gathered  well- 
earned  laurels  and  golden  opinions  in  these  islands;  yet  still 
above  all  Spohr  shines  out  a star  of  the  first  magnitude,  and 
there  are  no  doubt  thousands  yet  amongst  us  who  were  present 
0 at  the  performance  of  his  oratorios,  under  his  direction,  at 
*?  Norwich,  or  attended  his  concerts  in  London,  and  to  whom 
this  Autobiography  will  be  of  interest.  We  have  little  to  say 
l,  of  it  here  — it  speaks  for  itself.  Simple  and  truthful  throughout, 
e it  is  a mirror  of  the  mind  of  him  who  jotted  down  the  details 
composing  the  same.  Modest  and  unassuming  at  the  com- 
mencement of  his  career,  Spohr  continued  so  till  the  end, 
notwithstanding  the  celebrity  he  achieved  and  the  high  po- 
sition to  which  he  attained.  The  praises  showered  upon  him 
neither  turned  his  brain  nor  puffed  him  up  with  pride;  and 
he  has  left  us  an  example  of  high  morality,  great  amiability, 


Digitized  by  Google 


II 


and  bright  domestic  virtues,  too  rare  'alas ! among  artists  and 
men  of  genius.  * 

Spohr  was  a man  devoted  to  his  art,  and  although  far 
from  wealthy,  often  sacrificed  his  time  — which  to  him,  as 
to  most  of  us,  was  money' — in  giving  gratuitous  instruction 
ta-yotmgL  men jrf  ability  too  poor  to  pay  for  lessons;  and  not 
unfrequently  has  he  unhesitatingly  dismissed  some  rich,  well- 
paying, but  dull  scholar  to  make  way  for  a poor  but  talented 
pupil,  in  hopes  of  thereby  benefitting  his  art  — and  this  was 
his  sole  reward. 

Another  prominent  trait  in  Spohr's  character  was  his 
childlike  simplicity,  combined  with  never  - failing  good -nature 
and  an  inability  to  bear  malice.  Nor  did  the  many  unavoid- 
able trials  and  vexations  of  a long  life  ever  permanently 
disturb  his  good  humour  or  sour  his  temper;  and  even  gross 
injustice  failed  to  do  more  than  temporarily  ruffle  the  calm 
serenity  of  his  soul.  Thus  he  passed  through  the  world,  an 
active  and  highly  useful  member  of  society,  beloved  and  re- 
spected by  all  who  knew  him,  till  in  process  of  time  he  went 
down  to  his  grave  full  of  years  and  honour. 

As  is  explained  in  the  text,  the  Autobiography  comes  to 
an  end  with  the  month  of  June  1838;  but  the  description  of 
the  life  and  doings  of  the  great  master  from  that  date  till  the 
time  of  his  death  was  continued  from  reliable  materials  fur- 
nished by  Mrs.  Spohr  and  other  members  of  the  family ; so  that 
the  whole  forms  a true  account  and  lively  picture  of  Spohrys 
earthly  career  from  his  cradle  to  his  grave. 

With  these  few  remarks  we  submit  the  work  to  the  perusal 
and  kind  consideration  of  the  gentle  reader. 

London,,  October  1864. 

THE  TRANSLATOR. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Chronological  Index 

of  Contents. 


Vol.  I. 

Page 

1784  to  1799.  Spohr’s  childhood  and  youth  at  Seesen  and  Bruns- 
wick. -7-  Musical  proclivities,  and  the  instrument  of  his 
choice.  — His  first  instructors  on  the  violin.  — First  at- 
tempts at  composition.  — Sent  by  his  father  to  Hamburg 
to  seek  his  fortune.  — Disappointed  hopes,  and  return 
to  Brunswick.  — Singular  interview  with  the  Duke  of 
Brunswick.  — Appointed  violinist  in  the  court  orchestra  of 
the  Duke  — Undertakes  the  musical  education  of  his 
brother  Ferdinand.  — His  admiration  of  the  music  of 
Mozart.  — Disturbs  the  Duchess  of  Brunswick  at  her 
party  of  “ombre”  with  his  “murderous  fiddling.”  . . 1 

1802.  Spohr  proceeds  with  Franz  Eck  to  St.  Petersburg.  — 

Revisits  Hamburg.  — Cultivates  at  intervals  his  fond- 
ness for  drawing  and  painting  in  water-colours.  — His  first 
love.  — Dussek.  — Spohr3 s first  published  work,  violin 
concerto  Op.  I.  — Stay  at  Strelitz.  — Romantic  adven- 
ture. — Second  capture  of  Spohr3 8 heart.  — Kdnigsberg.  — 

St.  Petersburg.  — Impressions,  and  incidents  during  his 
stay  in  that  Capital.  — Returns  by  sea  to  Germany.  — 

Arrival  at  Brunswick 14 

1803.  Appointed  court  musician  at  Brunswick  ...  62 

1804.  Musical  tour  to  Leipsic,  Dresden  and  Berlin  ...  67 

1805.  Appointed  Concert-Master  at  Gotha.  — Present  with  Prince  . 

Louis  Ferdinand  at  the  military  manoeuvres  at  Magde- 
burg   84 

1806.  Marriage  of  Spohr  with  Dorette  Scheidler  ...  95 


Digitized  by  Google 


IV 


Page 

1807.  Musical  tour  to  Weimar,  Leipsic,  Dresden,  Prague,  Munich, 

Frankfort,  Stuttgard  and  Heidelberg  . 101 

1808.  Pedestrian  tour  through  the  Harz  with  his  pupils  112 

Composes  his  opera  of  “Alruna” 115 

Congress  at  Erfurt 117 

1809.  Musical  tour  to  Leipsic,  Breslau,  Berlin  and  Hamburg  . 128 

1810.  Musical  festival  at  Frankenhausen 139 

~ Performance  of  the  opera:  “Zweikampf  mit  der  Geliebten,” 

at  Hamburg 153 

1812.  Performance  of  the  oratorio : “Das  jungste  Gericht”  at  the 

Musical  festival  at  Erfurt  157 

Musical  tour  to  Leipsic,  Prague  and  Vienna  . 159 

1818.  Appointed  director  of  the  orchestra  at  the  theatre  An  der 

Wien 168 

Composes  his  opera  of  “Faust” 178 

1814.  Composes  his  cantata:  “The  Liberation  of  Germany”  . 182 

1816.  Journey  to  Brunn,  Breslau,  Carolath.  — Third  musical 

festival  at  Frankenhausen 203 

Musical  tour  to  Wurzburg,  Nuremberg  and  Munich  . 211 

1816.  Frankfort.  — Strasbourg,  <fec 217 

Visit  to  Switzerland 234 

Journey  to  Milan 251 

Journey  to  Venice 270 

Journey  to  Bologna,  Florence  and  Rome  283 

1817.  Departure  from  Rome.  — Arrival  at  Naples  . . 325 

voi.  n. 

1817.  Residence  in  Naples 1 

Ascends  Mount  Vesuvius 3 

Departure  from  Naples  to  Rome 32 

“Miserere”  in  the  Sistine  Chapel 36 

Departure  from  Rome 41 

Addenda  in  reference  to  the  Italian  journey  ...  47 

Visit  to  Holland  53 

Appointed  director  of  the  orchestra  at  Frankfort  . 53 

1818.  Composes  the  opera:  “Zemire  and  Azor”  ....  58 

Journey  to  the  musical  festival  at  Mannheim  . . 59 

1819.  Leaves  Frankfort 66 

Musical  tour  to  Berlin,  Dresden,  Leipsic  and  Casscl  68 

Visit  to  Brussels 68 

1820.  Journey  to  London 72 

First  concert  at  the  Philharmonic  Society  ...  82 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


y 


Spohr*8  concert  at  the  New  Argyll  Booms,  London 

Mr.  Logier’s  Musical  Academy 

Return  to  Germany  ' 

Musical  festival  at  Quedlinburg  .... 
Journey  to  Paris  by  way  of  Frankfort  and  Heidelberg 

1821.  Return  to  Gandersheim  ... 

Concerts  at  Alexisbad  and  Pyrmont  . v . 

Removal  to  Dresden  . . ... 

1822.  Appointed  director  of  the  orchestra  of  the  court  theatre 


at  Cassel 141 

1823.  Institutes  the  Society  of  St.  Cecilia 147 

Composes  the  opera:  “Jessonda”  in  Cassel,  where  it  is 

first  performed 148 

1824.  “Jessonda”  performed  in  Leipsic 153 

1825.  “Jessonda”  performed  in  Berlin  . . . . 157 

Composes  the  opera  of  “The  Mountain  Sprite”  in  Cassel, 
where  it  is  first  performed 157 

1826.  Composes  the  oratorio  of:  “Die  letzten  Dinge”  in  Cassel,  ( 

where  it  is  first  performed 159 

Musical  festival  at  Diisseldorf  . . . . . 161 

1827.  Composes  the  opera:  “Pietro  von  Abano”  163 

1828.  Musical  festival  at  Halberstadt 165 

1829.  Musical  festival  at  Nordhausen 166 

1830.  Composes  the  opera:  “The  Alchymist”  ....  168 

1831.  Celebration  festival  upon  the  occasion  of  the  grant  of  a 

constitution  to  Hesse 172 

Celebration  of  Spohr’s  “Silver  Wedding”  . . 173 

Terminates  his  work  “The  Violin  School”  . 176 

1832.  Composes  the  symphony:  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone”  . 178 

Celebration  of  the  “Golden  Wedding”  of  Spohr*s  parents  180 

1833.  Musical  festival  at  Halberstadt 183 

1834.  Journey  to  Marienbad 184 

Death  of  Spohr’s  first  wife 187 

1835.  Finishes  the  oratorio:  “Des  Heilands  letzte  Stunden”  (Cal- 
vary) in  Cassel,  where  it  is  performed  for  the  first  time  . 188 

Journey  to  Sandfort  in  Holland 188 

1836.  Spohr’s  second  marriage 194 

Journey  to  Leipsic,  Dresden  and  Saxon  Switzerland  195 

Musical  festival  at  Brunswick 197 

Millenium -jubilee  at  Paderborn 199 

1837.  Projected  musical  festival  at  Cassel 202 

Journey  to  Prague 204 

Vienna  — Salzburg,  <fcc 206 


Page 

94 

98 

102 

105 

105 

134 

135 
138 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


VI 


Page 


1838.  Death  of  Theresa  Spohr 209 

Journey  to  Carlsbad  . 209 

Continuation  of  Spohr’ s Biography  by  his  family  210 

1839.  Composes  his  “Historical  Symjphony”  . . . . 215 

Departure  to  the  musical  festival  at  Norwich  . 215 

1840.  Journey  to  the  musical  festival  at  Aix-la-Chapelle  . . 227 

Journey  to  Liibeck  and  Hamburg 229 

184 1*.  Journey  to  Switzerland  by  way  of  Stuttgard  and  Hechingen  232 

Musical  festival  at  Lucerne 235 

Composes  his  “Double  Symphony” 237 

Musical  performance  in  honour  of  Mozart  in  Cassel  239 

1842.  Journey  to  Carlsbad 240 

1843.  Invitation  to  Prague 244 

Journey  to  London  to  direct  the  “Fall  of  Babylon”  . 249 

1844.  Composes  the  opera:  “The  Crusaders”  ....  257 

Journey  to  Paris 257 

Journey  to  the  musical  festival  at  Brunswick  . . 260 

1845.  His  opera  of  “The  Crusaders”  performed  for  the  first 

time,  at  Cassel 261 

Journey  to  Oldenburg,  Carlsbad  and  Berlin  262 

Journey  to  Bonn  to  the  inauguration  of  the  memorial 
erected  to  Beethoven 270 

1846.  Journey  to  Leipsic  and  Carlsbad 276 

1847.  Spohr’ s twenty-fifth  Anniversary  as  director  at  Cassel  282 

Spohr’ 8 journey  to  London 287 

Musical  performances  in  commemoration  of  the  death  of 
Mendelssohn 291 

1848.  Festivities  at  Cassel 293 

1849.  Journey  to  Leipsic  and  Carlsbad 293 

1850.  Spohr’ 8 fall  upon  the  ice 295 

Composes  his  symphony  “The  Seasons”  ....  295 

Journey  to  Leipsic,  Breslau  and  Berlin  ....  296 

1851.  Journey  to  Switzerland  and  Italy 300 

Journey  to  Gottingen  . . .....  300 

1852.  Law- suit  relative  to  the  fine  imposed  upon  Spohr  for  his 

absence  on  a journey  without  permission  . . . 301 

Journey  to  London  to  direct  the  performance  of  his  opera: 

“Faust” 302 

Appointment  of  a second  director  of  the  orchestra,  Mr. 

Bott  at  Cassel 306 

1853.  Journey  to  London  to  direct  the  performance  of  his  opera 

“Jessonda  ” &c.  . 308 

1854.  Journey  to  Switzerland,  Munich  and  Alexandersbad  . 314 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


VII 


Page 


1855.  Journey  to  Hannover  \ . . . 31$ 

Journey  to  Hamburg  and  Lubeck 319 

1856.  Journey  to  Dresden,  Saxon  Switzerland  and  Prague  . 321 

Journey  to  the  Harz  . . \ 321 

1867.  Journey  to  Holland  . 323 

Spohr  pensioned  off  by  the  Elector  of  Hesse  . . 325 

Breaks  his  arm . . . 327 

1868.  Journey  to  Magdeburg,  &c. 327 

Journey  to  Bremen 329 

Journey  to  Prague  to  the  jubilee  of  the  conservatory  . 329 

Visit  to  Alexandersbad 331 

Journey  to  Wiesbaden  to  the  musical  festival  of  the  Middle- 

Rhine 331 

Journey  to  Leipsic 331 

His  Last  composition  . . 334 

1869.  Journey  to  Meiningen.  Spohr  directs  an  orchestra  for  the 

last  time 336 

Journey  to  Detmold 338 

Journey  to  Alexandersbad  and  Wurzburg  . . 339 

Spohr3 s last  illness  and  death 341 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Digitized  by 


Alphabetical  list 

of  the  most  notable  persons,  adverted  to  in  the  two  volumes. 


Page 


Beethoven  . . . 

I. 

184, 

199 

Bott,  Jean  . II.  232, 

313, 

336 

Boucher  ... 

n. 

68 

Catalani  .... 

ii. 

25 

Cherubini  . . 

H. 

133 

dementi  .... 

i. 

39 

Curschmann 

II. 

158, 

161 

Dingelstedt  . 

H. 

211 

Dussek  .... 

I 

79, 

86 

Eck 

I. 

13 

Feska  . . . . 

I. 

193, 

225 

Field 

I. 

40 

Goethe 

L 

102, 

116 

Grabbe  .... 

II. 

190 

Grand,  Edward 

n. 

103, 

336 

Hauptmann,  Moritz 

i: 

169 

ii. 

137, 

241 

Hesse,  Adolph  II. 

196, 

209, 

299 

Hermstedt  I.  123, 

140, 

156, 

159 

II. 

135 

Hiller,  Ferdinand  . 

H. 

324 

Holmes,  Alfred  and 

Henry  . . . 

H 

320 

▼on  Humboldt,  Alex. 

II. 

269 

Immermann  . . . 

H. 

189 

Joachim  . . II. 

278, 

289, 

317 

Kompel,  Augustus 

II. 

300 

Kdrner,  Theodor 

I. 

177 

Kreutzer  . I.  250,  II. 

108, 

119 

Laube,  Heinrich 

II. 

277 

Liszt,  Franz  . . 

II. 

239, 

271 

Page^ 

Mendelssohn  II.  189,  210,  277,  290 
Methfessel  ...  II.  69 

Meyerbeer  I.  80,  312,  II.  266,  270 
Molique  ....  I.  212 

Moscheles.  . . . II.  294,  313 

Muller,  Brothers  . 13.  228 

Napoleon  ....  I.  117 

Owen,  Professor  13.  304 

Ole  Bull  . . . . II.  213 

Paganini  ...  I.  279,  II.  168 
Pott,  Augustus  II.  262,  278 
Prutz,  Robert  II.  278 

von  Raumer  II.  2 

Raupach  II.  184 

Ries.  Ferdinand  II.  75,  161 

Ries,  Hubert  . . II.  269 

Rochlitz  . I.  75,  II.  159,  186 

Rode I.  61,  161 

Romberg,  Andreas  I.  135,  210 
Romberg,  Bernard  I.  78 

Schmidt,  Aloys  I.  159 

Schumann,  Robert  II.  210,  296  . 
Schwenke  ...  I.  135 

Spontini  ....  II.  156 

Taylor,  Prof.,  Ed.  II.  216,  249, 253 
Tiek,  Ludwig  . . II.  269 

Wagner,  Richard  . II.  245,  276 
von  Weber,  C.  Maria  I.  109,  140 
Wichmann,  Professor.  II.  269 
Wieland  ....  I.  102,  116 
Winter I.  105 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


JxLy  father,  Carl  Heinrich  Spohr , Doctor  of  Medecine,  afterwards 
Medical  Councillor,  was  the  son  of  a Clergyman  at  Wolters- 
hausen  in  the  district  of  Hildesheim.  He  married,  November  26, 
1782,  Ernestine  Herike , daughter  of  the  Clergyman  of  the 
Aegydian  church  of  Brunswick,  and  at  first  resided  with 
her  parents  at  the  parsonage*).  I was  the  eldest  child  of 
this  marriage,  and  was  born  April  5,  1784.  Two  years 
later,  my  father  was  transferred  as  district  physician  to  Seesen. 
My  earliest  recollections  reach  back  to  that  removal;  for  the 
impression  made  upon  me  by  my  mother’s  weeping,  after  having 
taken  leave  of  her  parents,  and  our  arrival  at  the  simple  and 
somewhat  rustic  house  at  Seesen,  have  remained  with  me  up  to 
the  present  time.  I remember  also  the  smell  of  the  newly 
whitewashed  walls  striking  me  as  disagreeable,  and  even  now 
I still  retain  an  uncommon  acuteness  and  sensibility  of  the 
senses. 

In  Seesen  were  born  my  four  brothers,  and  one  sister. 
My  parents  were  musical : my  father  played  the  flute,  and  my 
mother,  a pupil  of  the  Conductor  Schwaneberger  in  Brunswick, 
played  on  the  piano  with  great  ability,  and  sang  the  Italian 

*)  The  house  is  still  standing,  and,  as  Number  7,  forms  the  comer 
of  the  Aegydian  churchyard  in  Monk  street.  For  several  years  it  has  been 
given  up  to  the  Military  musical  institution,  since  the  parish  was  abolished 
during  the  Westphalian  times. 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  I.  1 


Digitized  by  CjOOQ  le 


2 


bravuras  of  that  time.  As  they  practiced  music  very  often 
in  the  evening,  a sense  and  love  for  the  art  was  early 
awakened  in  me.  Gifted  with  a clear  soprano  voice,  I at  first 
began  to  sing,  and  already  in  my  fourth  or  fifth  year  I was 
able  to  sing  duets  with  my  mother  at  our  evening  music. 
It  was  at  this  time  that  my  father,  yielding  to  my  eagerly 
expressed  wish,  bought  me  a violin  at  the  yearly  fair,  upon 
which  I now  played  incessantly.  At  first  I tried  to  pick  out 
the  melodies  I had  been  used  to  sing,  and  was  more  than 
happy  when  my  mother  accompanied  me. 

Soon  after,  I had  lessons  from  Herr  Riemen  Schneider,  and 
I still  remember,  that,  after  the  first  lesson,  in  which  I had 
learned  to  play  the  (?-sharp  accord  upon  all  four  strings, 
in  an  extasy  at  the  harmony,  I hastened  into  the  kitchen  to 
my  mother,  and  arpeggiod  the  chord  to  her  so  incessantly 
that  she  was  obliged  to  drive  me  out.  When  I had  learned 
the  fingering  of  the  violin  from  notes,  I was  also  allowed  to 
practise  music  with  the  others  in  the  evening,  as  violinist,  and 
there  were  particularly  three  trios  by  Kalkbrenner,  for  piano, 
flute  and  violin,  which,  after  being  studied,  were  executed  in 
presence  of  our  circle  of  friends. 

About  the  year  1790  or  91  a French  emigrant,  named 
Dufour,  came  to  Seesen.  Although  an  amateur,  only,  he  was 
an  accomplished  violinist  and  violoncellist.  He  settled  there; 
and  being  supplied  with  free  board  by  the  more  wealthy 
inhabitants,  maintained  himself  by  giving  French  lessons. 
The  days  on  which  he  used  to  come  to  my  parents,  we  always 
practised  music,  and  I still  remember  having  been  moved 
to  tears  the  first  time  I heard  him  play.  I now  gave  my 
parents  no  rest  until  I had  lessons  from  him. 

Dufour,  astonished  at  my  rapid  progress,  was  the  first 
to  persuade  my  parents  to  devote  me  entirely  to  music. 
My  father,  who  had  predestined  me  for  the  study  of  me- 
decine,  was  from  his  love  of  music  soon  brought  to  agree  to 
this;  but  he  had  a hard  struggle  with  my  grandfather,  whose 
idea  of  a Musician  was  limited  to  that  of  a Tavern-fiddler  who 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


played  to  dancers.  Subsequently,  after  I had  been  so  early 
appointed  Kammermusicus  *)  in  Brunswick,  I had  the  satisfaction 
to  induce  my  grandfather,  who  loved  me  very  much,  to  adopt 
a higher  opinion  respecting  my  chosen  career  as  a musical  artiste . 

It  was  while  I took  lessons  from  M.  Dufom , that  I made 
my  first  attempts  at  composition,  but  without  yet  having  had 
any  instruction  in  harmony.  They  consisted  in  duets  for  two 
violins,  and  I executed  them  with  my  teacher  at  our  musical 
soirees;  astonishing  my  parents  with  them  in  the  highest  degree. 
To  this  day,  I recollect  the  proud  feeling  of  being  already  able 
to  appear  before  the  friends  of  the  house  as  a composer.  As 
a reward,  I received  from  my  parents  a gala  dress,  consisting 
of  a red  jacket  with  steel  buttons,  yellow  breeches,  and  laced 
boots  with  tassels;  a dress  for  which  I had  long  prayed  in 
vain.  The  duets,  which  my  father  has  carefully  preserved, 
are  indeed  incorrect  and  childish,  but  possess  a certain  form 
and  a flowing  melody. 

This  first  brilliant  success  in  composition,  so  inspired  me, 
that  from  this  time  I devoted  nearly  every  hour  which  the 
school  allowed  me,  to  similar  attempts : I even  ventured  upon 
a little  opera,  the  text  of  which  I took  from  “Weisse’s  Kinder - 
freund It  may  be  mentioned  as  characteristic,  that,  I began 
with  the  title-page,  and  first  of  all  painted  it  very  finely  with 
Indian  ink;  then  followed  the  overture,  then  a chorus,  then 
an  air,  and  there  the  work  came  to  a standstill.  As  I had 
never  yet  seen  an  opera  performed,  I took  the  model  for 
these  musical  pieces  from  Hiller's  operas  ((Die  Jagd”,  and 
“Lottchen  am  Hofe”,  of  which  my  mother  had  a pianoforte 
arrangement,  and  which  she  had  often  sung  with  me  and  my 
father.  But  I soon  felt  that  I needed  both  knowledge  and 
experience  for  such  an  undertaking,  and  I therefore  set  to  work 
at  other  attempts.  In  this  however,  I had  a hard  struggle  with 
my  father,  who  strongly  insisted  that  every  work  once  begun 
should  be  completed  before  another  was  commenced ; and  only 


*)  Musician  in  the  Ducal  Orchestra,  or  Court  Musician. 

1* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


4 


because  my  father  was  convinced  that  I was  unequal  to  so 
great  a task,  was  an  exception  made  on  this  occasion;  but 
it  was  never  allowed  again.  To  this  severity  I owe  my 
perseverance  in  working,  and  I have  always  recollected  the 
paternal  precept. 

As  my  father  liked  to  superintend  the  labours  of  his  son, 
he  allowed  me  to  establish  myself  in  his  study,  not  being  at 
all  disturbed  by  the  humming  and  whistling  of  the  young 
composer.  When  I had  written  down  anything  wrong,  which 
happened  frequently  enough,  and  was  obliged  to  scratch  it  out, 
my  father  heard  it  at  once,  and  would  say  half  angrily:  “Now* 
the  stupid  boy  is  making  windows  again!”  — for  thus  he  de- 
signated the  marks  I made  across  the  lines,  in  scratching  out. 
I was  very  sensitive  to  this,  and  that  is  perhaps  the  reason 
why  I acquired  early  the  habit  of  writing  off  a clean  score 
without  erasing  anything. 

Since  it  was  now*  determined,  on  the  advice  of  Dufour , 
that  I should  devote  myself  entirely  to  music;  Dufour  insisted 
that  I should  be  sent  to  Brunswick  to  enjoy  the  advantage  of 
better  lessons,  particularly  in  theory.  This  could  not  take 
place  till  I was  confirmed.  According  to  a law  strictly  ob- 
served in  the  Dutchy  of  Brunswick,  confirmation  could  not 
take  place  before  the  age  of  fourteen;  in  order  therefore  to 
lose  no  time,  I was  sent  to  my  grandfather  in  the  district  of 
Hildesheim,  where  it  was  left  to  the  decision  of  the  clergy- 
man as  to  when  the  children  could  be  admitted  to  confirmation. 
Here,  during  the  winter,  I had  lessons  from  my  clever  grand- 
father, both  in  religion,  and  other  things;  but  music- 
lessons  were  not  attended  to,  for  neither  my  grandfather  nor 
my  uncles  understood  anything  about  it.  I was  therefore 
obliged  to  walk  twice  a week  to  Alefeld  with  my  violin, 
to  take  lessons  from  the  precentor  there.  Tedious  as  were 
these  journeys,  owing  to  the  frequent  severity  of  the  winter 
weather,  I was  always  pleased  with  them,  chiefly,  indeed,  be- 
cause I felt  that  I was  above  my  teacher,  and  often  brought  him 
into  difficulties  by  my  fluent  reading  of  the  notes;  and  besides, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


I had  not  unfrequently  the  secret  triumph  of  seeing  him 
brought  to  a standstill. 

Half  way  to  Alefeld,  stood  a solitary  mill.  I once  entered 
there  during  a heavy  shower  of  rain,  and  gained  the  good 
will  of  the  miller’s  wife  to  such  a degree,  that  from  that  time 
I was  obliged  to  call  every  day  I passed  by,  and  was  treated 
with  coffee,  cakes  and  fruit;  for  which  I used  to  improvise 
something  upon  my  violin  by  way  of  thanks.  I still  remember 
having  once  so  completely  ravished  her  by  playing  Wranitzky's 
variations  upon  “Du  hist  liederlich",  into  which  all  the  juggles 
with  which  Paganini  afterwards  enchanted  the  world  were 
introduced,  that  she  would  not  let  me  leave  her  during  the 
whole  day. 

Soon  after  returning  from  Woltershausen , I was  sent  to 
Brunswick,  where  I was  received  into  the  house  of  the  rich 
gingerbread-baker  Michaelis,  as  one  of  his  own  children,  and 
treated  with  kindness  by  all  the  members  of  the  family;  my 
father  had  been  their  physician  and  had  cured  Michaelis ’ wife 
of  a dropsy. 

I commenced  my  musical  and  other  studies  with  eagerness. 
I received  instruction  on  the  Violin  from  Kammerm asi cus  Ku- 
nisch , a well  grounded  and  amiable  teacher,  to  whom  I owe  much. 
Less  friendly  was  my  instructor  in  harmony  and  counterpoint,  an 
old  organist  named  Hartung;  and  I still  remember  how  severely 
he  once  rebuked  me,  when,  soon  after  the  beginning  of  the 
lessons,  I showed  him  a composition  of  my  own.  uThere  is  time 
euough  for  that,”  said  he,  “you  must  learn  something  first.” 
But  after  some  months  he  himself  encouraged  me  to  make 
trials  in  composition:  he  corrected  me,  however,  so  merci- 
lessly, and  scratched  out  so  many  ideas  which  to  me  appeared 
sublime,  that  I lost  all  desire  to  show  him  anything  further. 
Not  long  afterwards,  our  lessons  were  brought  to  a close  by 
the  ill  health  of  the  old  man;  and  these  were  the  only 
lessons  in  theory,  I ever  had.  I was  now  obliged  to  seek 
for  instruction  in  theoretical  works.  But  the  reading  of 
good  scores  was  of  special  advantage  to  me;  these  I ob- 


Digitized  by  Google 


6 


tained  from  the  Theatrical  library  through  the  interest  of 
my  teacher  Kunisch.  In  this  manner  I soon  learned  to  write 
harmony  correctly;  and  I now  ventured  for  the  first  time 
to  appear  publicly  in  Brunswick  with  a composition  for  the 
violin.  This  took  place  in  the  School-concert  of  the  Katharinen - 
Schtdef  which  I attended  as  a Secundaner.  These  concerts  were 
instituted  by  the  Prefect  for  the  practice  of  the  School-choir; 
but  from  several  members  of  the  Hof-Kapdle,  the  Town  mu- 
sicians, and  accomplished  amateurs  taking  part  in  them,  they 
became  so  important,  that  greater  works  could  always  be  exe- 
cuted, such  as  Cantatas,  Symphonies,  and  instrumental  Con- 
certos. From  this  time  everything  was  studied  very  exactly, 
and  the  performances,  which  were  held  in  the  tolerably  large 
saloon  of  the  head  class,  soon  became  so  celebrated,  that 
it  enabled  a trifling  entrauce  money  to  be  charged  to  defray  the 
expenses.  At  one  of  these  concerts  I thus  appeared  for  the 
first  time  in  my  native-town,  and  achieved  so  much  success 
that  I was  invited  to  assist  at  the  Subscription  concerts  at 
the  Deutsches  Haus , and  received  the  usual  remuneration. 
This  first  payment  which  I earned  as  an  artist  made  me  very 
happy,  nor  have  I forgotten  the  proud  feeling  wnth  which  I 
announced  it  to  my  parents.  I now  frequently  played  solos 
at  the  subscription  concerts,  and  generally  some  of  my  own 
compositions.  I was  also  allowed  to  play  in  the  Orchestra  of 
the  Theatre  for  my  own  practice,  and,  thereby,  became  fami- 
liar with  much  good  music. 

At  this  time,  still  possessing  my  clear,  high  soprano  voice, 
it  gave  me  much  pleasure  also  to  join  the  School  chorus  in 
its  perambulations  through  the  town.  The  leader,  who  since 
then  has  become  celebrated  as  the  Bass  singer,  Strohmeyery 
gave  the  soprano  solos  to  me  very  readily,  from  my  being 
able  to  sing  them  without  fault  at  sight. 

My  teacher  Kunisch , who  interested  himself  for  me  in 
a paternal  manner,  now  insisted  that  I should  take  lessons 
of  the  Concert -Director  Maucourt , the  best  violinist  of  the 
Brunswick  orchestra.  My  father  agreed  readily,  although  it 


Digitized  by  foozle 


— 7 — 

was  much  against  his  grain  to  pay  the  higher  charge  for  this 
instruction;  and  the  more  so,  as  I had  been  obliged  to 
leave  Michaelis ’ house  from  his  inability  to  give  me  up  a 
special  apartment,  and  that  it  was  quite  impossible  for  me  to 
play  and  compose  quietly  in  the  same  room  with  the  children 
of  the  house.  A further  consequence  of  this  change  of  dwelling 
was,  that  my  father  was  obliged  to  arrange  with  his  former 
aquaintances  about  my  haying  free  board ; this  was  very  gall- 
ing to  his  ambitious  son.  Nevertheless  I was  treated  in  a friendly 
way  by  all  these  people,  and  thus  the  humiliating  feeling  of  my 
position  was  soon  dissipated.  I now,  with  another  Secundaner , 
inhabited  a room  in  the  house  of  the  organist  Burger;  here 
however  I could  practise  and  compose  undisturbed,  for  our 
landlord,  who  interested  himself  in  my  musical  studies,  placed 
his  music  room  and  pianoforte  at  my  disposal. 

With  M.  MaucourVs  instruction,  I progressed  more  and 
more  towards  becoming  (for  my  age)  an  excellent  solo  player: 
and  after  the  lapse  of  about  a year,  as  my  father  was  un- 
able to  defray  the  great  expense  of  my  living  in  Brunswick, 
on  account  of  the  growing  up  of  his  other  children,  he  con- 
sidered me  to  have  made  progress  enough  to  enable  me  to  try 
my  luck  in  the  world  as  a travelling  “Artiste”  He  determined 
therefore  to  send  me  first  to  Hamburgh,  where  he  had  acquaint- 
ances to  whom  he  could  give  me  letters  of  recommendation. 

Accustomed  to  obey  my  father  in  everything,  and  well 
disposed  to  consider  myself  a shining  light,  I had  no  objection 
to  this.  If  it  appear  hazardous  in  the  extreme  to  send  a boy 
of  fourteen  into  the  world,  left  entirely  to  himself,  and  trust 
everything  to  fortune,  its  explanation  is  to  be  found  in  the  char- 
acter and  life-experience  of  my  father.  Bold  and  enterprising 
in  the  highest  degree,  he  also  had  already  emancipated  himself 
in  his  sixteenth  year.  In  order  to  escape  punishment  at  school, 
he  had  run  away  from  Hildesheim,  and  supported  himself 
most  precariously  in  Hamburgh,  first  as  a teacher  of  languages, 
and  afterwards,  by  giving  lessons  in  the  Biisching  Commercial 
school.  He  then  attended  several  Universities,  struggling  through 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


8 


great  privations  by  help  of  his  enterprising  spirit  and  unwearying 
activity;  and,  at  last,  without  any  help  from  home;  after  a most 
adventurous  youth,  succeeded  in  establishing  himself  in  practice 
as  a physician  in  Brunswick.  He  found  it  therefore  very  natural 
that  his  son  should  try  the  same  course,  although  my  mother 
shook  her  head  thoughtfully  at  it.  Scantily  provided  with  money 
for  the  journey,  but  furnished  with  much  good  advice,  I was  sent 
by  the  mail  to  Hamburgh.  Still,  filled  with  the  lively  impression 
made  upon  me  by  the  crowded  Commercial  City,  and  the  ships, 
now  seen  for  the  first  time,  I went,  full  of  hope  and  in  high  spirits, 
to  Professor  Busching,  to  whom  I had  a letter  of  introduction  from 
my  father.  But  how  soon  were  those  hopes  to  be  destroyed ! The 
Professor,  after  he  had  read  the  letter  with  increasing  astonish- 
ment, exclaimed:  tfcYour  father  is  then  still,  the  same  as  ever! 
What  madness  to  send  a boy  into  the  world  trusting  merely  to 
good  luck!”  He  then  explained  to  me,  that,  in  order  to  arrange 
a concert  in  Hamburgh,  one  must  either  possess  a well  known 
name,  or  at  least,  the  means  to  bear  the  great  expenses  it  would 
entail.  But,  that  in  summer,  when  all  the  rich  people  were 
at  their  country  seats,  such  an  undertaking  would  be  quite 
impossible.  Completely  down  cast  by  this  explanation,  I could 
not  answer  a single  word,  and  was  hardly  able  to  repress  my 
tears.  I took  leave  in  silence,  and  hastened  to  my  lodging  full 
of  despair,  without  thinking  of  delivering  the  other  letters  of 
recommendation.  Here,  upon  thinking  over  my  situation,  the 
certainty  that  my  money  would  hardly  suffice  for  a couple  of  days, 
terrified  me  to  such  a degree,  that,  in  thought,  I already  saw 
myself  in  the  claws  of  the  crimps  of  whom  my  father  had 
drawn  a warning  picture.  I made  up  my  mind  at  once, 
packed  up  my  violin  and  other  things  again,  sent  them  to 
Brunswick  by  the  mail,  paid  my  bill,  and  with  the  scanty  re- 
mainder of  my  money,  which  might  perhaps  suffice  to  my 
subsistence,  I set  out  on  foot,  on  my  return  to  Brunswick. 

Some  miles  from  the  town,  calmer  reflection  brought  re- 
gret for  this  overhaste ; but  it  was  too  late ; had  it  not  been 
so,  I would  have  turned  back.  I said  to  myself  that  it  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9 


foolish  not  at  least  to  have  delivered  the  other  letters  first. 
They  might  perhaps  have  procured  for  me  the  aquaintance  of 
some  musical  person  who  would  have  appreciated  my  talent,  and 
have  procured  some  information  how  arrangements  might  have 
been  made  for  a Concert.  To  this  was  added  the  humiliating 
thought  that  my  father  who  had  been  so  enterprising  him- 
self, would  upbraid  me  as  childish,  cowardly  and  thoughtless 
Thus,  saddened  to  the  depth  of  my  soul,  I wandered  farther, 
thinking  continually  how  I might  avoid  the  humiliation  of 
returning  to  my  paternal  home  without  having  effected  any- 
thing whatever. 

At  last,  the  idea  struck  me  of  addressing  myself  to  the 
Duke  of  Brunswick,  to  solicit  from  him  the  means  to  carry 
on  my  studies.  I knew  that  the  duke  had  earlier  played  the 
violin  himself,  and  I therefore  hoped  that  he  would  recognise 
my  talent.  When  (thought  I)  he  has  heard  me  play  but  one 
of  my  concertos,  my  fortune  is  made.  With  newly  awakened 
courage  I now  journeyed  onward,  and  got  over  the  rest  of 
the  road  in  the  most  cheerful  disposition  of  mind. 

Scarcely  arrived  in  Brunswick,  I concocted  a petition  to 
the  Duke,  in  which  I laid  before  him  my  whole  situation, 
ending  with  the  request  either  for  aid  towards  improving  my- 
self, or,  for  a situation  in  the  ducal  orchestra.  As  I knew 
that  the  Duke  was  in  the  habit  of  walking  every  morning  in 
the  park  of  the  Palace,  I sought  him  there  with  my  petition 
in  my  pocket,  and  had  the  good  fortune  to  have  it  ac- 
cepted by  him.  After  having  glanced  over  it  and  asked  me 
some  questions  about  my  parents  and  former  Instructors,  which 
I fearlessly  answered,  he  enquired  who  had  worded  the  pe- 
tition. “Well,  who  but  I myself?  I need  no  help  for  that,” 
was  my  reply,  half  offended  at  the  doubt  as  to  my  ability.  The 
Duke  smiled  and  said:  “Well,  come  to  the  palace  to-morrow 
at  eleven;  we  will  then  speak  further  about  your  request.” 
Who  so  happy  as  I!  Punctually  at  eleven  I presented  my- 
self before  the  groom  of  the  chambers  and  requested  to  be  an- 


Digitized  by  Google 


— 10  — 

nounced  to  the  Duke.  “And  who  may  Er *)  be?”  snarled  the 
groom  to  me  in  unfriendly  tone.  “I  am  no  Er.  I am  here  by 
the  Duke’s  command,  and  Er  has  to  announce  me”,  was  my 
indignant  reply.  The  groom  went  to  announce  me,  and  before 
my  excitement  had  subsided  I was  introduced.  My  first  word  to 
the  Duke  was  therefore,  uYour  Serene  Highness!  your  servant 
calls  me  “Er”\  I must  earnestly  remonstrate  against  that.”  The 
duke  laughed  aloud,  and  said:  “Come,  calm  yourself;  he  will  not 
do  it  again”.  Then,  after  having  put  several  questions  to  me  to 
which  I gave  the  most  unembarrassed  answers,  he  said : “I  have 
enquired  about  your  abilities  from  your  last  teacher  Maucourt , 
and  am  now  desirous  to  hear  you  play  one  of  your  own  com- 
positions ; this  can  take  place  at  the  next  concert  in  the  apart- 
ments of  the  Duchess.  I will  have  it  intimated  to  the  director 
Schwaneberger .” 

In  most  happy  mood  I left  the  Palace,  hastened  to  my 
lodging,  and  prepared  myself  for  the  concert  in  the  most  care- 
ful manner. 

The  Court  concerts  in  the  apartments  of  the  duchess  took 
place  once  a week,  and  were  most  disagreeable  to  the  musicians 
of  the  Ducal  Orchestra:  for,  according  to  the  then  prevailing 
custom,  cards  were  played  during  the  music.  In  order  not  to 
be  disturbed,  the  Duchess  had  ordered  the  orchestra,  always 
to  play  piano . The  leader  therefore  left  out  the  trumpets 
and  kettle  drums,  and  insisted  strongly  that  no  forte  should 
be  played  in  its  full  strength.  As  this  was  not  always  to 
be  avoided  in  Symphonies,  however  softly  the  band  might 
play,  the  Duchess  ordered  a thick  carpet  to  be  spread  out 
under  the  orchestra,  in  order  to  deaden  the  sound.  One  heard 
therefore  the  words  “I  play”,  “I  stand”  and  so  forth,  much 
louder  than  the  music. 

However,  the  evening  on  which  I played  there  for  the 
first  time,  the  card  tables  and  carpet  had  disappeared;  the 

*)  Er,  or  he,  used  in  this  mode  of  address,  is  a contemptuous  style 
of  expression  in  the  German  language,  which  has  its  equivalent  only  in 
the  English  word  fellow , used  in  a rude  sense. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


orchestra,  informed  that  the  Duke  would  be  present,  had  well 
prepared  themselves,  and  the  music  went  on  excellently.  As 
I then  still  appeared  without  any  timidity,  and  well  knew  that 
my  whole  future  fate  depended  upon  the  success  of  that  day,  I 
played  with  real  inspiration;  and  must  have  surpassed  the  ex- 
pectations of  the  Duke,  for  he,  even  while  I was  playing,  cried 
repeatedly  “bravo”.  After  I had  finished,  he  came  to  me,  patted 
me  on  the  shoulder,  and  said,  “The  talent  is  there  ; I will  take 
care  of  you.  Come  to  me  to-morrow.”  In  an  extasy  of  delight 
I returned  to  my  lodging,  wrote  immediately  to  my  parents 
of  my  good  fortune,  and  could  get  no  sleep  for  a long  time, 
from  excitement  and  joy. 

The  next  day,  the  Duke  said  to  me,  “there  is  a place  va- 
cant in  the  orchestra,  I will  give  it  to  you.  Be  diligent  and 
behave  well.  If  after  some  years  you  have  made  good  pro- 
gress, I will  send  you  to  some  great  master;  for  here  you  have 
no  great  model  to  follow!”  This  last  speech  filled  me  with 
astonishment,  for  till  then  I had  considered  the  playing  of  my 
Instructor  Maucourt,  as  the  utmost  that  could  be  attained. 

In  this  manner,  in  the  beginning  of  my  fifteenth  year  I was 
appointed  Kammermusicus.  The  Rescript  of  my  appointment 
which  was  drawn  up  later,  is  dated  August  2r,d,  1799.  Although 
the  salary  was  only  100  thalers,  yet  by  great  economy,  and  with 
the  help  of  other  trifling  earnings,  it  sufficed  tome;  and  I did  not 
now  need  any  further  help  from  home.  Nay,  I was  even  happy 
enough  to  be  enabled  to  render  the  education  of  the  other  children 
easier  for  my  parents,  by  taking  my  brother  Ferdinand,  who  was 
eight  years  younger  than  I,  and  who  showed  an  inclination  and 
talent  for  music,  to  live  with  me,  and  give  him  my  assistance 
to  become  an  artist. 

From  this  time,  the  young  Kammermusicus  was  in  full  ac- 
tivity. His  duties  consisted  in  playing  at  the  Court- concerts 
and  in  the  Theatre,  for  which  latter,  a French  operatic  and 
dramatic  company  had  been  engaged  shortly  before.  I there- 
fore became  earlier  acquainted  with  the  French  dramatical 
music  than  with  the  German;  and  this  was  not  without  in- 


Digitized  by  Google 


12 


fluence  upon  the  tendency  of  my  taste,  and  upon  my  compo- 
sitions of  that  time.  At  last,  during  the  two  fairs,  a German 
operatic  company  from  Magdeburgh  was  also  engaged,  and  the 
grandeur  of  Mozart's  operatic  music  burst  upon  me.  Mozart 
now  became  for  my  life  time  my  ideal  and  model.  Even  now 
I well  remember  the  transport  and  dreamy  enchantment  with 
which  I heard  for  the  first  time,  the  “ Zaubcrfl6t&i  and  “Don 
Juan";  and  that  I had  no  rest  until  I had  got  the  scores  lent 
to  me,  and  had  brooded  over  them  half  the  night  long. 

Neither  did  I fail  to  be  present  at  all  the  other  musical 
parties  in  the  town:  I was  a member  of  all  the  quartetto  circles. 
In  one  of  these  which  had  been  formed  by  two  of  the  singers 
of  the  French  opera,  who  played  the  violin,  I heard  for  the 
first  time  the  quartettes  of  Beethoven , and  from  that  time  raved 
no  less  about  them  than  I had  before  done  about  those  of  Haydn 
and  Mozart.  With  such  constant  practice,  my  playing  and 
taste  could  not  fail  to  become  more  and  more  cultivated.  The 
presence  of  two  foreign  violinists  wrho  at  this  time  visited  Bruns- 
wick, produced  also  a favourable  influence  upon  me.  These  were 
Seidlery  and  the  boy  Puis.  The  former  impressed  me  by  his 
beautiful  tone  and  his  pure  playing,  the  latter  by  his  execution, 
which  for  his  years,  was  extraordinary. 

I very  often  played  in  private  parties,  with  the  brothers 
Pixis,  and  in  their  second  public  concert  I performed  in  a 
double  concerto,  by  Pleyel  the  violinist.  After  such  encou- 
ragement I always  studied  with  redoubled  diligence.  The  duke, 
who  did  not  lose  sight  of  me,  had  allowed  me  to  inform  him 
whenever  I intended  to  execute  a new  composition  at  the  Court 
concerts,  and  he  was  sometimes  present,  to  the  great  an- 
noyance of  the  duchess,  who  was  thus  disturbed  in  her  party 
at  Ombre.  One  day  when  the  duke  was  not  there,  and  for  that 
reason  nobody  was  listening  to  the  music;  the  prohibition  re- 
garding the  forte  being  renewed,  and  the  dreadful  carpet  again 
spread,  I tried  a new  concerto  of  my  own.  I can  only  call  these 
performances  rehearsals,  because  no  preparation  was  ever  made 
beforehand,  excepting  on  the  days  upon  which  we  knew  that  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


i 


13 


duke  would  be  present.  Engrossed  with  my  work  which,  I heard 
for  the  first  time  with  the  orchestra,  I quite  forgot  the  pro- 
hibition, and  played  with  all  the  vigour  and  fire  of  inspiration; 
so  that  I even  carried  away  the  orchestra  with  me.  Suddenly, 
in  the  middle  of  the  solo,  my  arm  was  seized  by  a lackey,  who 
whispered  to  me,  “Her  Highness  sends  me  to  tell  you  that 
you  are  not  to  scrape  away  so  furiously.”  Enraged  at  this 
interruption  I played,  if  possible,  yet  more  loudly;  but  was 
afterwards  obliged  to  put  up  with  a rebuke  from  the  Marshal 
of  the  Court. 

The  Duke,  to  whom  I complained  the  next  day;  laughed 
heartily : but  on  this  occasion  he  at  the  same  time  adverted  to  his 
former  promise,  and  told  me  to  choose  a teacher  at  once  from 
among  the  great  Violinists  of  the  day.  Without  hesitation  I 
named  Viotti , and  the  duke  approved  of  the  choice.  He  was 
immediately  written  to,  to  London,  where  he  resided  at  the  time. 
Alas!  He  refused  the  request:  he  wrote  word  that  “he  had  be- 
come a wine  merchant,”  — “occupied  himself  but  seldom  with 
music,  and  therefore  could  not  receive  any  pupils”*). 

Next  to  Viotti , Feidinmd  Eck,  in  Paris  was  at  that  time 
the  most  celebrated  violinist.  He  was  therefore  next  applied  to. 
But  he  also,  would  take  no  pupils.  A short  time  before,  when 
engaged  in  the  Court  orchestra  at  Munich,  he  had  eloped  with 
a rich  countess;  had  married  her  in  Switzerland,  and  now  led 
an  affluent  life,  partly  in  Paris,  and  partly  upon  an  estate  near 
Nancy  which  had  been  bought  with  the  fortune  of  the  countess. 
He,  however,  proposed  his  younger  brother  and  pupil,  Francis 
Eck,  as  master.  As  he  was  at  that  time  travelling  through 
Germany,  and  had  appeared  with  great  success  at  Berlin,  he 
was  written  to;  and,  in  case  of  his  accepting  the  proposition, 


*)  It  is  related  of  Viotti  (the  father  of  Modern  Violin-Playing)  when 
thus  established  in  London  as  a Wine -merchant,  that,  a Nobleman  who 
bad  previously  been  a great  admirer  and  patron  of  his  talent,  rebuked 
him  for  having  abandoned  his  art  to  become  a dealer  in  Wine!  ‘‘My  dear 
Sir”  replied  Viotti,  “I  have  done  so,  simply  because  I find  that  the 
English  like  Wine  better  than  Music!” 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


14 


invited  to  Brunswick.  Eck  came ; played  at  Court,  and  pleased 
the  Duke  greatly.  As  however  he  was  about  to  start  for  Pe- 
tersburgh  upon  an  artistic  tour,  I was  sent  with  him  as  a pupil 
for  a year ; and  it  was  settled  that  I should  bear  half  the  ex- 
penses of  the  journey : and  that  Ecky  at  the  end  of  the  instruc- 
tion should  receive  a suitable  reward  from  the  Duke.  A diary 
of  this  journey  exists,  which  from  some  extracts- may  perhaps 
be  of  interest.  It  commences  a few  days  before  our  departure 
(which  took  place  April  24,  1802),  in  the  following  childish 
manner;  notwithstanding  I was  already  a youth  of  eighteen. 

“The  Leave -taking.” 

„To  the  most  sorrowful  hours  of  life,  belong  those  of  leave 
taking  from  loving  parents,  and  tried  friends.  Not  even  the  pro- 
spect of  an  agreeable  and  profitable  journey  can  brighten  them ; 
time  only,  and  the  hope  of  a speedy  meeting  again,  can 
assuage  their  pain.  From  these  also  do  I expect  relief  on 
recommencing  my  musical  tour.  Farewell,  therefore,  parents  and 
friends!  The  remembrance  of  the  many  happy  hours  enjoyed 
with  you  will  always  accompany  me.” 

We  first  went  to  Hamburgh,  where  Eck  intended  giving 
concerts.  I regarded  this  town  again,  from  which  I had  fled 
some  years  ago  so  full  of  despair,  with  a certain  degree  of 
self- satisfaction  and  content. 

After  Eck  had  delivered  his  letters  of  recommendation,  the 
lessons  began.  Concerning  these,  the  following  is  written  in 
my  diary: 

“This  morning,  April  30,  Herr  Eck  commenced  my  lessons. 
But  alas!  how  was  I humiliated!  I,  who  imagined  myself  one  of 
the  first  virtuosi  of  Germany,  could  not  play  one  single  bar 
to  his  satisfaction;  but  was  obliged  to  repeat  it  ten  times  at 
least,  in  order  in  some  degree  to  gain  his  approbation.  My 
bow-ing  particularly  displeased  him,  to  alter  which,  I now 
also  see  is  very  necessary.  At  first  it  will  of  course  be  difficult 
for  me;  but  at  last,  convinced  of  the  great  advantage  of  the 
change,  I hope  to  accomplish  it.” 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


15 


The  diary  now  describes  everything  that  the  travellers  saw 
and  heard.  Attractive  as  these  were  to  me,  yet  I did  not 
neglect  my  musical  studies  for  them.  The  forenoon,  which  in 
Hamburgh  lasts  till  three  o’clock,  was  devoted  entirely  to 
practising  what  Eck  gave  me.  It  was  not  long  before  he 
expressed  himself  favourably  as  to  my  progress.  Already  on 
May  10,  I wrote: 

“Herr  Eck  begins  to  be  more  satisfied  with  my  playing,  and 
was  kind  enough  to  assure  me  yesterday  that  I was  now  able 
to  play  the  concerto  1 had  studied  under  him,  without  fault.” 

The  intervals  between  practising,  I employed  in  painting. 
From  my  earliest  youth  I had  applied  myself  to  drawing  and 
painting  in  water  colours,  and  had  attained  some  proficiency 
without  ever  having  had  any  good  instruction.  Yes,  I had  even 
hesitated  for  some  time,  as  to  which  of  the  two  arts,  music  or 
painting,  I should  choose  for  my  profession.  I now  made  my 
first  attempt  at  portrait  painting.  The  12th  of  May  I wrote: 

“On  Sunday  I commenced  a miniature  which  I finished 
this  forenoon.  I tried  to  paint  myself,  and  am  quite  sa- 
tisfied with  the  result.  This,  and  playing  on  the  violin  have 
occupied  me  so  fully,  that  I have  not  left  the  house  for  four 
days.  I sent  this  picture  to  my  parents,  and  then  commenced 
painting  Herr  Eck , who  was  patient  enough  to  sit  to  me.u 

It  is  now  time  to  mention  that  the  young  artist,  from  his 
earliest  youth,  was  very  susceptible  to  female  beauty,  and  already 
when  a boy  fell  in  love  with  every  beautiful  woman.  It  is 
therefore  not  to  be  wondered  at,  that,  the  diary  of  the  youth 
of  eighteen  contains  many  pages  of  the  outpourings  of  the  emo- 
tions of  his  heart.  But  there  is  great  comicality  in  the  earnest- 
ness with  which  these  fleeting  inclinations  are  spoken  of. 

In  Hamburgh  it  was  a Miss  Liitgens,  the  daughter  of  a 
music  master,  who  particularly  won  my  heart.  After  a visit 
paid  to  the  father,  I wrote  the  following: 

“His  eldest  daughter,  a girl  of  thirteen,  a very  fine,  in- 
nocent creature,  pleased  me  particularly  by  her  agreable  and 
modest  demeanour.  She  is  very  beautiful,  has  hair  that  curls 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


16 


naturally,  very  lively  brown  eyes,  and  a neck  of  dazzling  white- 
ness. Her  father,  whose  hobby  is  counterpoint  and  harmony, 
entertained  me  continually  with  the  resolution  and  combination 
of  the  chords ; finding  in  me  the  most  patient  listener  to  his  ser- 
mon, while  I would  much  have  greatly  preferred  to  speak  with 
his  amiable  daughter  about  the  combination  of  hearts  and  lips.” 

In  order  to  a more  frequent  near  approach,  I asked  per- 
mission to  take  her  likeness,  which  was  willingly  granted.  But 
before  the  sittings  commenced,  I was  warned  by  Herr  Eck, 
whom  oddly  enough  I had  made  my  confidant,  that  she  was  a co- 
quette, and  unworthy  of  my  regard.  At  first  I could  not  believe 
that  a girl  of  thirteen  could  already  be  a coquette,  but  after 
the  first  sitting,  l became  of  the  same  opinion,  and  wrote  the 
following  remarks: 

“Henrietta  begged  me  to  take  her  portrait  in  the  dress 
which  she  wore,  assuring  me  that  she  had  chosen  it  expressly ; 
for  her  other  dresses  were  not  cut  low  enough,  and  covered  her 
neck  too  much.  I was  astonished  at  her  vanity,  and  the  sight 
of  this  charming  neck  which  otherwise  would  have  enchanted  me 
now  saddened  me;  being  convinced  that  she  was  already  in- 
fected by  the  vanity  and  shamelessness  of  the  Hamburgh 
ladies.  While  I painted,  she  chatted  with  her  cousin,  (an  ugly 
but  vain  girl,)  of  nothing  but  the  dress  she  intended  wearing 
at  the  ball  which  was  to  take  place  on  the  following  evening. 
Quite  vexed,  I returned  home,  and  wished  that  we  might  now 
leave  as  soon  as  possible,  for  Hamburgh  began  to  displease 
me  more  and  more.  My  sociable  heart,  which  could  so  will- 
ingly attach  itself  to  any  one,  finds  iiere  nobody.  In  this  girl, 
I thought  to  have  found  something  on  which  to  set  my  af- 
fections; but  I see  I am  again  deceived.  I had  intended  mak- 
ing a copy  of  this  portrait  for  myself;  but  I am  still  too 
much  embittered  against  her  to  be  able  to  do  so.  Neither  have 
I now  any  wish  to  go  to  the  ball.” 

But  two  days  afterwards  I wrote,  “This  forenoon  I worked 
diligently  at  Miss  LiUgens’  portrait  — and  began  also  a copy 
of  it  for  myself.  After  dinner  I went  to  her Henrietta 


Digitized  by 


Google 


received  me  with  reproaches  for  not  having  been  at  the 

ball To-day,  she  was  so  modestly  dressed,  and  spoke  so 

reasonably,  that  I occupied  myself  more  with  her  than  with  my 
painting,  which  was  the  cause  of  my  not  quite  finishing  it.  It 
is  really  a thousand  pities  that  this  girl  with  so  much  talent 
and  good  sense,  lives  in  such  vulgar  society,  and  is  there- 
by led  away  into  the  follies  of  Hamburgh.” 

With  the  presentation  of  the  portrait,  and  our  departure, 
which  took  place  immediately  after;  this  little  romance,  that 
never  came  to  a declaration,  terminates. 

With  respect  to  the  point  I had  at  that  time  reached  in 
my  art,  and  my  views  of  the  latter,  my  diary  shews  proofs 
at  every  page,  of  my  opinion  of  what  I heard  in  Hamburgh. 
Without  doubt  those  judgments  are  pronounced  with  the  naive 
assurance  that  belongs  to  youth,  and  require  without  a doubt 
many  modifications,  if  these  were  possible  after  the  lapse  of  so 
long  a time.  The  opinion  about  Operas,  and  their  performance, 
may  be  well  passed  over,  for  those  works  have  for  the  most 
part,  disappeared  from  the  repertoire,  and  the  singers,  also, 
have  passed  away. 

But  respecting  other  matters,  as  well  as  those  of  my  In- 
structor, the  following  incidents  may  be  mentioned. 

“May  5.  To-day  we  were  invited  to  dinner  by  Herr  Kiek- 
hover,  and  there  met  Dussek  and  some  other  musicians.  This 
was  very  agreeable  to  me,  as  I had  long  earnestly  wished  to 
hear  Dussek  play.  Herr  Kiekhover  and  his  wife  are  very  kind 
people,  and  in  their  house  good  taste  is  combined  with  splen- 
dour. The  conversation  at  table,  was  almost  always  in  French. 
As  I am  not  well  versed  in  that  language  I could  take  but 
little  part  in  it.  But,  I took  all  the  more  in  the  music 
which  followed.  Herr  Eck,  began  with  a quartett  of  his 
own  composition,  and  enchanted  all  the  listeners.  Then  Herr 
Dussek  played  a sonata  for  the  piano,  of  his  own  composition, 
which  however  did  not  seem  to  please  particularly.  Now  foll- 
owed a second  quartett  by  Herr  Eck , which  so  delighted  Herr 
Dussek,  that  he  enthusiastially  embraced  him.  In  conclusion, 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  I.  2 


Digitized  by  Google 


18 


Herr  Lussek  played  a new  quintett  he  had  composed  in  Ham- 
burgh, which  was  praised  to  the  skies.  However,  it  did  not 
entirely  please  me;  for,  despite  the  numerous  modulations,  it 
became  tedious  towards  the  end,  and  the  worst  was,  that  it 
had  neither  form  nor  rythm,  and  the  end  could  quite  as  well 
have  been  made  the  beginning  as  not.” 

At  a musical  party  at  M.  Thornton's  country  house,  I be- 
came acquainted  with  Fraulein  Grund , at  that  time  the  most 
esteemed  singer  of  Hamburgh.  My  diary  speaks  of  her  with 
great  enthusiasm.  Among  other  remarks: 

“At  first,  the  conversation  was  very  vapourous;  for  the 
merchants  spoke  of  nothing  but  the  contrary  winds  that  pre- 
vented their  ships  entering  the  Elbe.  By  and  by  how- 
ever, it  became  more  interesting,  particularly  when  Fraulein 
Grund  joined  in  it.  I had  already  admired  her  correct  and 
polished  language,  and  her  captivating  and  obliging  manners. 
But  when  at  table,  she  spoke  alternately  French  with  one,  and 
English  with  another,  and  that  one  gentleman  informed  me 
she  spoke  and  wrote  four  languages  correctly,  I began  to  envy 
her,  and  to  be  ashamed  that  I,  as  a man,  was  so  far  behind  this 
girl.  She  had  also  attained  great  proficiency  in  music,  and 
enchanted  us  so  much  yesterday  evening  by  her  singing,  that 
Herr  Eck  proposed  to  her  to  sing  at  his  Concert,  which  she  also 
promised  to  do.  My  neighbour  at  dinner,  informed  me  that  her 
father  maintained  his  family  by  giving  Instruction  in  Music,  and 
spent  a great  deal  upon  the  education  of  his  children.  In  this, 
his  eldest  daughter  assisted  him  greatly;  since  she  not  only 
instructed  her  brothers  and  sisters  in  music  and  languages, 
but  also  earned  a considerable  sum  by  giving  lessons  in  the 
first  houses  in  Hamburgh.  I would  gladly  have  made  her 
acquaintance  at  once,  but  she  was  so  surrounded  by  young 
men  that  I could  not  approach  her.” 

My  diary  mentions  the  following  with  regard  to  Herr  Eck's 
public  concert  in  the  Logensaal  on  the  Drehbahn  on  the  eighteenth 
of  May: 

“Herr  Eck  had  great  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  the  or- 


Digitized  by  Google 


19 


chestra,  for  his  concerti  were  admirably  accompanied;  not  so  the 
arias  of  Fraulein  Grund,  which  were  somewhat  difficult  for  the 
wind  instruments.  At  the  head  of  this  well  drilled  orchestra, 
is  Massoneau , well  known  by  his  charming  compositions.  The 
appearance  of  this  man  by  not  means  indicates  his  great  talent; 
for  his  manner  of  playing  and  his  bow-ing  are  so  bad,  that  one< 
might  take  him  for  the  greatest  bungler  — and  yet  he  does  not 
direct  at  all  badly.” 

Our  stay  at  Hamburgh  lasted  till  June  6.  Herr  JDussek 
who  was  commissioned  to  arrange  the  concert  at  a festival  with 
which  the  English  living  in  Hamburgh  were  about  to  celebrate  the 
4th  of  June,  in  honour  of  their  king,  engaged  Herr  Eck  to  per- 
form a violin  concerto.  It  was  not  until  the  rehearsal  which  took 
place  on  the  evening  of  June  3,  at  nine  o’clock,  that  Herr  Eck 
discovered  that  the  concert  was  to  be  given  in  the  open  air, 
which,  until  then,  had  never  been  mentioned.  A tent  had  been 
erected,  in  which  the  orchestra,  about  one  hundred  strong,  was 
disposed  on  a terrace -like  platform.  Herr  Dussek  first  tried  a 
Cantata , composed  by  him  for  the  occasion,  and  which,  had  an  un- 
common effect  upon  me ; for  not  only  was  it  well  written  and  thor- 
oughly well  studied,  but  from  the  accompainment  of  a large  organ 
which  had  been  erected  in  the  back  ground  of  the  orchestra 
and  “from  its  being  executed  in  the  silence  of  night,  it  partook 
of  so  solemn  a character  that  1 was  quite  charmed  by  it.” 

After  the  Cantata,  Herr  Eck  was  to  try  his  Concerto. 
But,  he  fearing  that  the  damp  night  air  would  have  an  unfa- 
vourable effect  upon  his  strings,  and  that  his  violin,  after  so 
powerful  a volume  of  vocal  sound,  and  hemmed  in  by  the  linen 
walls,  would  tell  badly,  had  resolved  not  to  play  at  all.  He 
explained  this;  and  at  the  same  time  reproached  Herr  Dussek 
warmly  for  not  having  told  him  at  once,  that  the  concert  was 
to  take  place  in  the  open  air.  Hereupon  a sharp  dispute 
followed,  the  consequence  of  which  was  that  Eck  left  the 
place  immediately  with  me,  and  we  took  no  part  in  the  festi- 
val itself. 

We  now  went  to  Ludwigslust,  where  Eck  wished  to  play  at 

2* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


20 


Court.  But  his  offer  was  declined ; and  he  came  also  to  Strelitz  at 
an  unfortunate  time,  for  the  Court  was  absent.  Nevertheless,  as  it 
was  soon  expected  to  return,  and  the  pleasant  little  town  with 
its  charming  park,  bounded  by  the  lake,  invited  us  to  make  a 
longer  stay ; and,  as  Eck  foresaw  that  in  the  height  of  summer 
it  would  be  impossible  to  do  much  in  Stettin,  Dantzic  and 
Konigsberg,  he  made  up  his  mind  to  await  the  return  of  the 
Court.  We  looked  out  therefore  for  private  lodgings,  and  made 
ourselves  at  home  there  for  some  time. 

This  was  the  most  favourable  period  for  my  studies,  during 
the  whole  journey.  Eck,  who  was  now  at  leisure,  devoted  him- 
self  with  great  zeal  to  the  instruction  of  his  pupil,  and  initiated 
me  in  all  the  secrets  of  his  art.  I,  for  my  part,  urged  on 
by  youthful  ambition,  was  indefatigable.  I rose  very  early  and 
practised  until  exhaustion  obliged  me  to  cease.  But,  after  a 
short  rest  I began  again,  and  in  this  way,  sometimes  brought 
it  to  ten  hour’s  practising  a day,  including  the  time  that  Eck 
devoted  to  me.  In  a letter  from  Brunswick,  I had  been  informed 
that  those  who  did  not  wish  me  well  had  loudly  expressed  them- 
selves, that  I should  distinguish  myself  as  little  as  all  the  other 
youths  whom  the  duke  had  hitherto  assisted  in  their  studies. 
In  order  to  controvert  this  opinion,  I was  determined  to  do 
my  utmost,  and  even  when  my  zeal  sometimes  flagged,  the 
thought  of  my  first  appearance  in  Brunswick  upon  my  return, 
animated  me  directly  to  fresh  exertion. 

In  this  manner  I succeeded  after  a short  time  in  acquiring 
such  dexterity  and  firmness  in  the  management  of  my  instru- 
ment, that  none  of  the  then  known  Concerto-music  was  too 
difficult  for  me.  In  these  exertions  I was  supported  by  sound 
health,  and  a Herculean  frame. 

Between  whiles,  I composed,  painted,  wrote  and  read ; and 
in  the  later  hours  of  the  afternoons  we  used  to  make  excursions 
into  the  neighbourhood.  A favourite  amusement  of  the  travellers 
was  to  row  across  the  lake,  and  to  take  supper  at  a farm 
house,  situated  on  the  opposite  shore.  As  I was  already  at  that 
time  an  accomplished  swimmer,  I often  undressed  during  these 


Digitized  by  Google 


21 


trips,  and  swam  a while  alongside  the  boat.  The  relation  in 
which  I stood  to  Eck,  which  was  more  that  of  one  comrade  to 
another  than  of  pupil  to  teacher,  admitted  of  such  priviledges. 

At  this  time,  I finished  a violin  concerto  I had  begun  in 
Hamburgh,  and  which  afterwards  appeared  as  Op.  1 at  Breitkopf 
& HarteVs  in  Leipsic ; and  wrote  the  three  violin  duets  Op.  3 
published  at  KuhneVs  in  the  same  town.  While  practising  these 
duets  with  Eck,  I became  first  aware  that  my  teacher,  like 
many  violinists  of  the  French  school,  was  no  thoroughly  finished 
artist;  for  however  excellently  he  executed  his  concertos,  and 
some  other  compositions  studied  with  his  brother,  yet  he  knew 
but  little  how  to  enter  into  the  spirit  of  the  works  of  others. 
A change  of  characters  would  have  been  very  possible  while 
playing  these  duets,  for  the  scholar  could  have  taught  the 
master  how  they  ought  to  have  been  executed.  I became  also 
aware  from  an  attempt  at  composition  made  by  Eck , that  it 
was  impossible  for  him  to  have  composed  the  violin  concertos 
and  quartetts  he  had  given  out  as  his  own  productions.  At 
a later  period,  also,  the  concertos  appeared  with  the  name 
of  the  elder  Eck  affixed  to  them,  and  the  quartetts  with 
that  of  Dcm&ij  the  leader  of  the  Orchestra  at  Stutgard.  Thus 
the  four  weeks,  during  which  we  waited  for  the  arrival  of  the 
Court,  passed  in  a very  uniform  way,  but  not  fruitlessly  for 
me,  when  Herr  Eck  fell  seriously  ill,  and  being  obliged  to  keep 
his  room  for  the  first  four  weeks  of  his  indisposition,  I took 
my  evening  walks  alone.  During  these  walks  another  love  affair 
sprang  up,  which  is  related  in  the  diary  with  great  earnest- 
ness and  minuteness.  On  the  eighth  of  July,  is  written: 

“This  afternoon,  impelled  by  ennui,  I entered  a circulat- 
ing library,  where  I selected  Lafontciine’s  well  known  novel 
u Quinctitis  Heymerotn  von  Flaming .”  I took  it  with  me,  and, 
leaving  the  town,  looked  for  a sequestered  and  shady  place 
on  the  shore  of  the  lake,  where  I lay  down  and  began  to  read. 
I became  deeply  engrossed  in  the  story;  grieved  with  Lissow 
about  his  Jacobine , and  compared  her  to  a lady  then  living, 
and  an  acquaintance  of  mine.  Suddenly  I heard  footsteps 


.e 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


22 


near  me,  I looked  up,  and  two  girls  stood  before  me;  one 
with  blue  eyes,  fair  curls,  and  beautiful  as  an  angel,  the  other 
with  black  hair  and  eyes,  less  beautiful  indeed  than  her  com- 
panion, but  still  not  plain.  I sprang  up,  bowed  respectfully 
and  gazed  after  them  for  a long  time.  Myrrha,  Herr  EcWs 
dog  which  I had  taken  with  me,  followed  them,  fawning  upon 
the  fair  haired  one  incessantly,  so  that  it  did  not  heed  my 
calling.  I therefore  followed  to  bring  back  the  dog,  and  if 
possible  to  make  the  acquaintance  of  the  girls.  The  fair  one 
came  to  meet  me,  begging  pardon  for  having  kept  back  the 
dog,  and  asked  me  to  promise  that  I would  not  punish  it 
for  its  disobedience.  With  her  sweet  silvery  voice  she  might 
have  exacted  yet  greater  promises  from  me;  I tl  erefore  gave 
the  desired  one  with  pleasure.  The  conversation  was  now 
commenced ; I continued  it,  and  accompanied  the  girls  on  their 
walk.  I found  that  the  fair  one  was  very  well  educated 
and  polite.  The  dark  one  spoke  too  little  to  allow  of  judg- 
ing of  her  education.  We  came  at  length  to  a meadow 
separated  from  our  path  by  a broad  ditch,  which  although 
shallow,  was  yet  too  wet  for  ladies  to  cross.  As  they  expressed 
a desire  to  walk  in  the  meadow,  I offered  to  carry  them  over. 
At  first  they  would  not  consent,  but  at  last  they  allowed  them- 
selves to  be  persuaded.  I took  the  fair  one  first,  and  an  in- 
comprehensible pleasure  seized  me  when  thus  carrying  the 
beautiful  girl  in  my  arms.  When  I had  reached  the  most 
dangerous  part  of  the  ditch  with  her,  one  of  her  fair  curls  fell 
upon  my  face.  This  so  disturbed  me,  that  I nearly  fell  with 
my  lovely  burthen  into  the  ditch.  Nevertheless,  I brought  her 
happily  over.  She  thanked  me  so  heartily  and  gazed  so  into 
my  face  with  her  large  blue  eyes  that  I almost  forgot  to  fetch 
the  other.  We  now  walked  on  across  the  meadow,  and,  at  the 
end,  to  my  great  disappointment,  found  a little  bridge  which 
led  us  back  over  the  ditch.  This  envious  bridge  robbed  me  of  the 
pleasure  of  carrying  once  more  the  sweet  burthen.  I escorted  the 
girls  as  far  as  the  town,  and  then  parted  from  them  very  un- 
willingly. — I will  immediately  enquire  their  names  and  station.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


23 


Already  the  next  day  I again  met  my  fair  one.  The  diary 
relates  this  with  comical  ingenuousness: 

“This  evening,  urged  by  God  knows  what  impulse,  I took 
the  same  walk  as  yesterday,  and  again  laid  myself  down  in 
the  very  place  where  I had  been  so  agreeably  disturbed  by  the 
girls.  I began  to  read ; but,  although  I wafc  at  an  interesting 
part,  yet  when  I had  run  through  some  pages,  I had  not  the 
least  idea  of  the  contents.  I now  confessed  to  myself  that  I 
had  not  come  here  to  read,  but  in  the  hope  of  again  meeting 
my  new  acquaintance.  I pocketed  my  book  and  gazed  with 
longing  looks  towards  the  place  where  I had  first  seen  them 
yesterday.  But;  after  waiting  in  vain  for  two  hours,  I arose, 
vexed,  and  returned  towards  the  town.  Just  before  reaching 
it,  at  a place  where  two  roads  meet,  I encountered  some  cows, 
on  their  way  home  from  the  meadow,  which  blocked  up  my 
path  and  obliged  me  to  wait.  But  I had  not  stood  there  long, 
before  I saw  at  some  distance,  a female  figure,  dressed  in  white, 
coming  towards  me,  and  which  had  exactly  the  same  fine  form 
and  high  bearing  of  her  whom  I had  waited  for  with  such 
earnest  longing.  As  she  drew  nearer,  I was  more  convinced 
that  it  must  be  her,  and  I went  to  meet  her.  I had  not  de- 
ceived myself — it  was  her!  She  greeted  me  with  her  grace- 
ful friendliness,  enquired  how  I was,  and  told  me  that 
her  friend  had  taken  cold  the  evening  before,  and  was  obliged 
to  keep  her  bed.  I said  I was  sorry  to  hear  it,  and  that  I 
feared  I had  been  the  cause  of  the  illness  of  her  friend,  in 
having  delayed  them  too  long  in  their  walk.  She  assured  me 
however  of  the  contrary,  and  laid  all  the  blame  upon  her  friend 
herself,  who  had  clad  herself  too  lightly.” 

During  this  time  the  herd  had  passed  by,  and  we  separated. 
In  this  second  conversation  I have  again  remarked  in  her  so 
much  polish  of  manner,  and  so  much  tender  feminine  delicacy 
that  I could  not  but  infer  that  she  had  been  exceedingly  well 
educated.  — But,  as  yet  I know  not  who  she  is;  though  from 
her  conversation,  I am  of  opinion  she  must  belong  to  the 
bourgoisie.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


24 


These  meetings  were  now  repeated  almost  every  evening 
without  prior  agreement,  and  I felt  very  unhappy  when  on 
one  occasion  I did  not  find  my  friend.  I became  more  and 
more  confidential  with  her;  spoke  of  my  parents;  of  my  pa- 
tron who  provided  me  with  the  means  to  accompany  my  emi- 
nent Instructor  on  his  travels;  mentioned  my  works,  and 
plans  for  the  future;  and  felt  myself  drawn  nearer  to  her  by 
her  friendly  interest  for  me.  I Saw  in  her  the  sum  of  all 
womanly  perfections,  and  imagined  to  have  met  her  who  could 
make  the  happiness  of  my  life.  When  wandering  hand  in 
hand  in  the  little  wood  by  the  lake  side,  I was  more  than  once 
upon  the  point  of  declaring  my  love  to  her;  but  a timidity  I 
could  not  conquer  always  prevented  me.  Respecting  her  own 
circumstances,  she  was  very  reserved,  and  hence  I was  still 
ignorant  as  to  who  she  was.  On  the  24  of  July  I however 
wrote : 

“At  last  I have  learned  the  name  of  my  fair  one;  but 
the  enquiries  made,  have  cost  me  dear ! Herr  Eck , who  is  now 
almost  recovered  and  who  has  already  taken  some  short  walks, 
sent  for  a hair  dresser.  Of  him,  I made  enquiries.  He  told 
me  her  name  was  ***,  and,  that  she  was  the  daughter  of  a 
groom  of  the  chambers  to  the  former  Duke,  who  had  died  some 
years  ago.  Her  mother,  with  whom  she  lived,  had  a small 
pension.  To  my  question  as  to  how  that  could  enable  her 
to  dress  so  elegantly  ? his  reply  was : they  were  probably  pre- 
sents from  Herr  von  ***  who  was  very  fond  of  her  and  vi- 
sited her  frequently.  On  hearing  this,  my  agony  was  so  great, 
that  I nearly  let  fall  my  violin,  — and  scarcely  had  the 
courage  to  ask,  whether  her  virtue  was  doubtfully  spoken  of.  He 
assured  me  nevertheless  to  the  contrary,  and  was  of  opinion, 
that  Herr  von  ***,  who  had  only  come  of  age  two  months 
ago,  had  the  intention  of  marrying  her.  He  was  now  travel- 
ling, and  would  return  in  some  weeks.  I had  made  the  ac- 
quaintance of  this  Herr  von  ***  at  the  Inn  where  we  dined, 
before  his  departure,  and  must  admit  that  he  seemed  to  me 
the  most  well  bred  young  nobleman  we  met  there.  The 


Digitized  by 


Google 


25 


less  therefore  do  I understand  his  mating  her  presents  and 
she  accepting  them;  for  she  can  hardly  permit  herself  to  hope 
that  he  will  marry  her.  And,  if  so,  how  as  a prudent  girl, 
could  she  venture  during  his  absence  to  take  lonely  walks  with 
a young  man,  and  sit  with  him  in  the  evening  before  the  door 
of  the  house?  The  affair  is  a riddle  to  me,  and  I am  doubtful 
whether  I shall  go  to  her  this  evening  or  not.” 

The  girl's  character  however  did  not  long  remain  a riddle 
to  me ; for  scarcely  had  Eck , who  now  again  shared  the  evening 
walks,  made  her  acquaintance,  than  she  received  his  attentions 
in  a much  more  friendly  and  forward  manner  than  she  had 
done  mine.  Eck , gallant  and  liberal,  arranged  excursion-parties 
to  please  her,  into  the  neighbourhood;  to  Rheinsberg,  Hohen- 
zirze,  and  other  places.  For  this,  she  rewarded  him  with  the 
most  marked  attention,  and  had  eyes  for  him  only.  I felt 
deeply  wounded;  the  diary  contains  passionate  outbursts  of 
jealousy.  Fortunately  they  were  confined  to  writing,  and  the 
good  understanding  with  my  Instructor  remained  unshaken. 
The  contempt  I now  felt  for  the  girl  helped  me  to  conquer 
my  passion,  and  I turned  to  my  studies  with  renewed  zeal. 
My  diary  states: 

“I  never  remark  the  progress  I have  made  in  playing, 
more  than  when,  from  time  to  time,  I take  up  some  old  theme 
and  remember  how  I used  to  execute  it.  To-day  for  instance 
I took  the  Concerto  I had  studied  in  Hamburgh  and  found,  that 
I now  executed  with  the  greatest  ease  those  passages  which  I 
then  could  not  play  without  a break.” 

My  Instructor  also,  did  not  leave  me  without  encourage- 
ment; and  when,  on  the  16  of  August,  I had  played  my  new 
Concerto;  to  my  great  delight,  Herr  Eck  said:  “If  every  three 
months  you  progress  as  you  have  done  in  these,  you  will  return 
to  Brunswick  a perfect  virtuoso.” 

Two  day 8 later,  Aug.  18.,  I remained  almost  the  whole 
day  at  home,  and  composed  a new  Adagio  to  my  Concerto ; for 
although  I had  already  written  three,  yet  none  of  them  seemed 
to  suit  well  to  the  other  parts. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


26 


As  evincing  my  youthful  pride  as  a Composer,  the  follow- 
ing may  here  be  cited: 

“I  was  told  of  a popular  festival  which  was  to  be  arranged 
at  Hohenzirze,  August  27.  the  birthday  of  the  hereditary 
Prince.  To  this  festival  the  peasants  of  the  neighbouring 
villages  are  invited  to  a dance  and  supper.  There  is  also 
to  be  dancing  at  the  castle.  In  answer  to  my  question,  as 
to  where  so  many  musicians  would  be  found,  I learned  that 
the  Janitscharen  - music  would  play  for  the  peasants,  and  the 
Orchestra  — imagine  my  astonishment  — for  the  dancing  at 
Court!  I would  not  believe  it  at  first,  until  repeated  assurances 
of  it  were  made  to  me.  But,  I asked  : how  is  it  possible,  that 
the  Duke  can  require  such  a thing  from  the  members  of  his 
Orchestra,  and  that  they  have  so  little  feeling  of  honour  and 
artistic  pride  as  not  to  refuse  it?  The  reply  was:  the  Duke  does 
not  consider  it  improper  for  his  Orchestra  to  play  to  dancers, 
and  the  majority  of  the  members  dare  not  disobey  his  com- 
mands, for  if  discharged  from  here,  poor  bunglers  as  they 
are,  they  would  find  it  difficult  to  obtain  places  in  other  or- 
chestras.” 

As  after  the  end  of  my  unhappy  love  affair,  my  residence 
in  Strelitz  had  become  unbearable,  I longed  greatly  for  our  de- 
parture. This  however,  was  still  delayed,  for  the  doctor  could 
not  pronounce  Herr  Eck  fully  restored  until  the  end  of  Septem- 
ber. The  unpleasantness  of  my  position  was  still  further  heigh- 
tened by  the  friend  of  my  faithless  one,  whom  at  our  first 
meeting  I had  named  the  “dark  one”,  turning  her  affection  most 
unmistakeably  towards  me;  an  affection,  which,  although  the 
girl  was  very  pretty,  I could  not  return.  I withdrew  myself 
from  their  society  as  much  as  possible;  but,  out  of  regard 
to  my  Instructor,  I could  not  entirely  refuse  to  share  in  the 
pleasure  parties  and  excursions  which  he  constantly  arranged; 
and  at  these  I could  not  avoid  being  the  escort  of  the  dark 
beauty.  There  are  naive  complaints  in  my  diary  of  the  em- 
barrassments which  her  tenderness  caused  me,  and  more  than 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


27 


once  I wished  the  moment  of  our  departure  to  arrive,  which 
would  free  me  from  such  trials. 

On  the  27th  Sept.,  came  at  length  the  moment,  when  we 
were  to  say  farewell  to  our  fair  ones.  Sophy  (the  dark  one) 
had  affected,  or  perhaps  really  felt,  an  uncommon  sadness  for 
the  last  three  days.  To-day  she  spoke  not  a word,  only 
sighed  sometimes,  and,  when  the  others  in  the  room  did  not 
observe  it,  threw  herself  passionately  upon  my  neck.  About 
eight  o’clock  in  the  evening,  Herr  Eck  and  Miss  ***  left  the 

room.  Now  for  the  first  time  the  real  outbreak  of  her  ten- 

derness took  place;  for  after  she  had  also  sent  away  her 
brothers  and  sisters,  she  hardly  let  me  out  of  her  arms.  I 
was  obliged  to  bear  with  it  until  ten  o’clock;  then  we  took 
leave.  The  poor  girl  shed  so  many  tears,  that  I was  ashamed 

of  my  own  dry  eyes,  and,  in  order  not  to  appear  quite  heart- 

less, I kissed  her  warmly.  Sophy  accompanied  me  to  the  door 
of  the  house,  and  pressed  a paper  into  my  hand,  with  the  re- 
quest that  I would  keep  it  as  a remembrance.  I hastened 
home,  opened  it,  and  found  a letter  with  a gold  ring  contain- 
ing some  hair.  The  letter  ran  as  follows:  “Noble  friend,  par- 
don a girl  whose  importunity  must  certainly  have  been  obvious 
to  you.  I knew  that  sometimes  I did  more  than  was  befitting 
my  sex.  But  God  knows,  when  in  your  company,  which  was 
so  dear  to  me,  I could  not  control  myself.  Now  also  I foroe 
upon  you  a small  token,  trifling  indeed,  but  given  with  the 
most  openhearted  impulse.  My  only  wish  and  prayer  is  that 
you  will  wear  it,  and  remember  me.  Ah!  could  this  paper 
but  tell  you  how  highly  I value  having  made  your  acquain- 
tance, and  how  deeply  I regret  your  going  so  far  away  from 
us!  I must  conclude,  and  in  the  firm  hope  of  seeing  you,  my 
best  friend,  once  more,  I already  rejoice  at  the  day  which 
will  restore  you  to  us  agam.  Farewell,  and  may  you  live  as 
well  and  happily  as  is  the  wish  of  your  friend  Sophy  ***” 

This  unmerited  and  tender  inclination  may  not  have  re- 
mained without  thanldul  acknowledgement;  for  the  resolution 
to  answer  the  letter  in  a most  friendly  manner  from  Stettin, 


Digitized  by  Google 


28 


is  expressed  in  the  diary.  But  there  is  nothing  mentioned  re- 
specting the  execution  of  that  resolve. 

We  went  to  Danzic,  via  Stettin,  arriving  there  October  2. 
As  Eck  had  to  deliver  many  letters  of  introduction,  and  had 
to  arrange  a Concert;  the  lessons,  which  till  now  had  been 
given  regularly,  came  rather  to  a standstill.  Meanwhile,  I 
thought,  “that  I made  progress  by  only  hearing  Herr  Eck 
practise.”  We  were  constantly  invited  out  to  dinner,  and  for 
the  evening;  among  other  invitations  was  one  to  the  country 
seat  of  Herr  Saurtnann,  where  from  a hill  behind  the  house, 
we  could  overlook  the  Baltic  and  a great  part  of  the  town. 
The  view  of  the  sea  and  the  vessels  upon  it  made  an  indis- 
cribable  impression  upon  me.  As  the  day  was  somewhat 
overcast,  the  ships  appeared  to  hang  in  the  clouds,  and  to 
move  slowly  along  with  them.  I could  with  difficulty  tear  myself 
away  from  the  magnificent  sight. 

At  another  dinner,  in  Mr.  Simpson's  garden,  I had  the 
honour  to  sit  beside  the  hostess.  She  induced  me  to  relate 
to  her  many  things  of  my  early  life,  namely:  how  I had 
been  at  first  destined  for  the  study  of  medecine,  and  then, 
from  a passionate  inclination  for  music,  had  been  led  to  de- 
vote myself  entirely  to  the  art.  She  listened  to  me  with  a 
benevolent  interest,  but  at  the  end  wounded  my  feelings  by 
asking  whether  I should  not  have  done  better  to  follow  the 
profession  of  my  father.  Wholly  penetrated  with  the  dignity 
of  my  artistic  career,  I replied  angrily : “As  high  as  the  soul 
is  above  the  body,  so  high  is  he  who  devotes  himself  to  the 
ennobling  of  the  mind,  above  him  who  only  attends  to  the  mor- 
tal frame.” 

Almost  everytime  that  an  opera  was  given,  I went  to 
the  theatre,  and  did  not  fail  to  note  down  my  remarks  upon 
the  performance,  in  which  singers,  chorus  and  orchestra  were 
sharply  handled. 

To  my  great  joy,  Ariadne  in  Naxos,  the  celebrated  melo- 
drama of  Brade , which  I did  not  yet  know,  was  also  given. 
But  it  offended  my  taste,  that  in  the  comedy  which  followed, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


29 


“The  peasants  and  lawyers”,  Theseus  appeared  again  in  the 
character  of  a lawyer,  and  Ariadne  as  a humble  peasant  girl. 
“The  music  enchanted  me  although  it  was  very  badly  per- 
formed. But  how  could  it  be  otherwise,  the  score  having  only 
arrived  in  the  morning  from  Konigsberg,  and  the  first  and  only 
rehearsal  having  been  held  at  noon!  Madame  Bochmann,  who 
played  Ariadne,  declaimed  indeed  very  well,  but  was  too  ugly 
for  the  part.”  A young  Englishman,  who  sat  next  to  me, 
said,  that,  he  did  not  think  Theseus  to  blame  for  forsaking 
such  an  Ariadne.  And  upon  this,  he  related  to  me  the  fol- 
lowing anecdote.  At  an  amateur  theatre  in  England,  Ariadne 
was  also  given.  A rather  elderly  and  anything  but  beautiful 
lady  played  the  part  of  Ariadne  so  excellently,  that  the  au- 
dience broke  out  into  applause  at  the  end  of  the  piece.  • She 
modestly  disclaimed  the  applause,  saying:  “In  order  to  repre- 
sent Ariadne  well,  it  was  necessary  to  be  both  young  and  hand- 
some.” A young  man,  who  wished  to  say  something  clever  to 
her,  cried  out:  “0,  Madam,  you  prove  the  contrary!” 

Herr  Eck's  concert  on  October  16.  at  the  Theatre,  went 
off  brillantly.  As  I knew  the  pieces  that  my  Instructor  per- 
formed, very  accurately,  I undertook  to  lead  them  on  the 
first  violin.  The  musicians,  who  soon  discovered  how  firm  the 
young  Conductor  was,  followed  me  willingly , thereby  rendering 
the  performance  of  the  Solo  player  much  easier;  which  he 
also  thankfully  acknowledged.  Besides  the  three  pieces  played 
by  Herr  Eclc,  there  was  also  a Symphony  by  Haydn , an 
Overture  by  Mozart,  a pianoforte  Concerto  by  Danzi,  played 
by  Herr  Reichel,  and  two  Arias  of  Cimarosa  and  Mozart  sung 
by  Fraulein  Wotruba  and  Herr  Ciliax . “The  success  of  Herr 
Jack’s  performances  was  great,  and  the  applause  enthusiastic 
and  reiterated.  I also,  had  never  before  heard  him  play  so 
well  in  public.” 

On  the  20th  Oct.  we  went  on  to  Konigsberg*  and  remained 
there  till  Nov.  18.  Eck  gave  two  concerts  which  were  very 
well  attended.  Being  introduced  into  many  of  the  first  houses 
by  letters  of  introduction,  we  were  constantly  invited  to  dinner 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


30 


as  well  as  to  musical  parties.  In  the  house  of  the  “Surgeon- 
General”  Gerlach , I often  practised  music  withFraulein  Gerlach , 
who  was  a thoroughly  cultivated  dilettante,  and  an  excellent 
pianiste ; and  who  also  sang  my  new  songs.  Whether  these  had 
any  artistic  worth  is  now  not  to  be  ascertained,  for  they  have 
been  lost.  I sometimes  played  quartetts  with  two  Messrs.  Fried- 
lander.  It  was  not  however  these  quartett  parties  alone  that 
attracted  me  to  their  house;  Fraul.  Rebecca  Oppenheimt  the 
younger  sister  of  Madame  Friedldnder , had  again  inflamed  my 
too  susceptible  heart.  She  was  a Jewess,  and  the  society  that 
frequented  the  house  consisted  almost  entirely  of  Jews  only; 
but  they  were  all  polite  and  educated  people.  The  day  on 
which  I took  leave,  I found  Madame  Friedldnder  and  Fraul.  Re- 
becca alone.  The  latter  was  overflowing  with  wit  and  humour, 
and  we  never  ceased  laughing,  and  jesting,  although  this  but 
ill  suited  the  purport  of  my  visit.  „It  is  fortunate, “ says  my 
diary,  “that  we  leave  to-morrow,  for  Rebecca  is  a dangerous 
girll  He  who  loves  his  freedom  and  his  peace  must  fly  from 
her,  and  the  sooner  the  better.” 

Before  Herr  Eck  gave  his  first  concert,  the  family  Pixie 
arrived  at  Konigsberg  upon  their  return  from  St.  Petersburgh.  I 
immediately  renewed  our  acquaintance. ' The  eldest  brother  had 
in  the  mean  time  grown  very  tall,  and  his  soprano  voice  had 
changed  to  a deep  bass.  But  he  still  dressed  “a  Venfant 
with  a turn-down  collar  and  no  necktie”.  They  were  much 
dissatisfied  with  their  journey  to  Russia,  and  the  father  even 
affirmed  that  he  was  a thousand  rubles  out  of  pocket  during 
their  stay  in  St.  Petersburgh,  although  he  had  taken  with 
him  two  hundred  letters  of  introduction. 

We  met  at  a musical  party  at  Count  Calnheim’s,  where  the 
youngest  played  first  of  all  some  variations  on  the  piano  with 
great  execution  and  taste.  The  eldest  then  played  a quartett 
by  Krommer . But  neither  the  composition,  nor  his  playing 
pleased  me.  “His  tones”,  says  a remark  in  my  diary,  “are 
without  power,  and  his  execution  without  expression.  Added  to 
this,  he  handled  his  bow  so  badly,  that,  if  he  does  not  alter  this, 


Digitized  by  foozle 


31 


he  will  never  become  a perfect  virtuoso*  He  holds  the  bow  a 
hand’s  breadth  from  the  nut,  and  raises  the  right  arm  much 
too  high.  In  this  manner,  all  strength  fails  him  in  the  stroke,  and 
the  shades  of  piano  and  forte  vanish  altogether  in  his  playing.” 
After  him,  Herr  Eck  also  played  a quartett  by  Krommer.  “But 
Heavens!  what  a difference  was  there!  The  transitions  from  forte, 
to  pimo  in  his  tones,  the  clearness  of  the  passages,  the  tasteful 
Jioriture  by  which  he  knew  how  to  enhance  the  most  common 
place  composition,  lent  an  irresistable  charm  to  his  playing. 
He  gained  also,  the  most  undivided  applause.  Pixis  then  played 
a quartett  by  Tietz,  the  celebrated  crazy  violinist  of  St.  Peters- 
burgh,  but  had  just  as  little  success  with  it  as  with  his  former 
one.  At  last,  he  begged  Herr  Eck  to  play  a duet  by  Viotti 
with  him,  in  order  that  he  might  be  able  to  say  that  he  had 
played  with  all  the  great  violinists  of  the  day;  for  Viotti,  Rode, 
Kreutzer,  Iwanovichi,  Tieta,  Durand  and  others,  had  all  done 
him  that  honour.  In  this  request  all  the  company  joined,  and 
Herr  Eck  was  obliged  to  consent.  Pixis  played  this  duet  best 
of  all,  although  he  did  not  bring  out  one  of  the  passages  as 
well  as  Herr  Eck,  who  was  not  at  all  prepared  for  it.” 

In  the  Concert  also,  which  the  brothers  gave,  the  eldest  had 
no  success,  “the  passages  were  flat  and  without  expression: 
he  even  played  very  false,  and  at  times  scraped  so  much 

as  to  inflict  pain  on  the  ears  of  the  audience According 

to  my  idea,  three  years  ago  when  I heard  him  for  the  first 
time  in  Brunswick,  he  played  the  easy  Concertos  of  Iwanovichi 
and  others,  better  than  the  difficult  ones  with  which  he  now 
came  forward.”  Yes,  I even  doubted  whether  he  ever  could 
become  a great  violinist,  “unless  he  soon  got  a good  master, 
who,  of  all  things,  could  give  him  a good  style  of  bow-ing.” 

Upon  these  doubtless  too  severe  criticisms  my  Instructor 
who  was  a very  stern  judge,  may  certainly  have  had  some 
influence.  When,  ten  years  later,  I again  met  Pixis  in  Vienna, 
he  had  become  a distinguished  virtuoso,  and  as  Professor  at 
the  Conservatory  in  Prague,  he  proved  himself  also  an  able 
teacher  of  the  violin. 


Digitized  by  Google 


32 


In  Konigsberg,  I began  again  to  paint.  I made  the 
acquaintance  of  a miniature  painter,  named  Seidel , who  gave 
me  some  lessons,  and  sat  to  me.  The  picture  was  very  like. 
My  diary  speaks  also  of  composing.  From  a remark  about  the 
polishing  down  of  a Concerto,  it  is  evident  that  at  that  time, 
I did  not  understand  how  to  work  of  a piece;  in  which  I 
afterwards  succeeded  so  well,  that,  the  rough  draught,  seldom 
suffered  even  from  slight  changes,  and,  once  written  in  score, 
it  was  never  altered  afterwards. 

For  our  journey  to  Memel,  “we  chose  the  road  along  the 
shore,  being  twelve  miles  (German)  shorter  than  that  across 
the  country.  In  winter  also,  when  the  sand  is  hard  frozen,  it 
is  better  to  drive  on  than  the  latter.  Three  miles  from  Konigs- 
berg, the  road  runs  close  to  the  sea,  and  does  not  leave  it  un- 
til you  reach  Memel.  We  travelled  the  whole  night,  and  suffered 
much  from  the  cold  and  cutting  sea  air.  Between  the  fourth 
and  fifth  station  we  had  the  misfortune  to  have  a wheel  come 
off.  We  were  now  obliged  to  quit  the  carriage,  to  right  it  by 
our  united  strength,  and  secure  the  wheel  temporarily  with 
ropes.  All  this  may  have  lasted  a full  half  hour,  and  I feared 
I had  got  my  fingers  frostbitten;  but  this  I happily  found  to 
be  groundless.  At  nine  o’clock  we  reached  Memel,  but  were 
obliged  to  wait  three  whole  hours  until  we  could  be  carried 
across  the  harbour,  because  the  boatmen  had  first  to  be 
collected  from  all  parts  of  the  town.  Four  miles  farther  we 
reached  the  frontiers.” 

We  arrived  at  Mittau  with  a large  addition  to  our  number; 
for  Myrrha,  without  our  remarking  it,  had  brought  forth  nine 
pups,  six  living  and  three  dead.  “All,  excepting  two,  were 
taken  away  from  the  poor  mother.” 

In  the  families  to  whom  Herr  Eck  was  recommended,  we 
found  the  most  hospitable  welcome.  We  were  invited  to  dinners, 
suppers,  musical  parties  and  balls;  and  everything  was  done 
to  render  our  stay  agreeable.  In  the  house  of  a “Collegiate- 
Assessor”,  von  Berner , I played  for  the  first  time  in  the  place 
and  in  the  presence  of  my  teacher.  It  happened  thus ; Herr  Eck , 


Digitized  by 


Google 


33 


after  having  played  some  quartetts  with  great  applause,  was 
solicited  to  accompany  a young  Pianiste  of  16  years  of  age, 
a Miss  Brandt,  who  was  possessed  of  a surprising  skill,  in  a 
Sonata  of  Beethoven's ; but  he  excused  himself  on  the  plea  of 
great  fatigue.  As  I well  knew  that  Eck  did  not  dare  to  play 
any  piece  at  sight,  that  he  did  not  know,  I offered  to  play 
in  his  stead.  It  is  true,  the  Sonata  was  wholly  unknown  to 
me,  but  I trusted  to  my  readiness  in  reading.  I was  sucess- 
ful;  and  the  young  Artist,  in  whom  probably  but  little  con- 
fidence had  been  felt,  was  overwhelmed  with  praise. 

At  the  subsequent  musical  parties,  I was  now  always  so- 
licited to  play  something;  and  I remember  that  Herr  von  Ber- 
ner on  my  taking  leave  of  him,  said  to  me  with  fatherly  kind- 
ness: “My  young  friend,  you  are  on  the  right  road  — only 
keep  in  it!  Herr  Eck  as  a Virtuoso  is  certainly  still  above 
you  ; but  you  are  a much  better  musician  than  he  is.” 

In  the  Governor’s  house  I heard  a Violinist  of  the  name 
of  Sogeneff , who  at  that  time  was  very  celebrated  in  Russia, 
and  a serf  of  Prince  Subow.  “He  played  variations  of  his  own 
composition,  which  were  immensely  difficult.  The  composi- 
tion pleased  me  right  well,  but  his  play,  although  skilful, 
was  very  raw,  and  offensive  to  the  ear.  Herr  Eck  played 
immediately  after  him,  so  that  the  difference  between  the 
two  Players  was  very  distinctly  perceptible.  The  play  of 
the  Russian,  was  wild  and  without  transition  from  forte  to 
piano;  that  of  Herr  Eck  firm,  powerful,  and  still,  always  har- 
monious. We  heard  there,  also,  some  Russian  military  singers. 
They  were  six  private  soldiers,  some  of  whom  sang  soprano 
parts.  They  shrieked  fearfully,  so  much  so  that  one  was  al- 
most obliged  to  stop  ones  ears.  They  are  practised  in  sing- 
ing by  a non  commissioned  Officer,  cane  in  hand.  In  some 
songs  they  accompanied  themselves  on  sort  of  Schalmey  of  so 
piercing  a tone,  that  I expected  the  ladies  would  have  fainted 
away.  The  Melodies  of  the  songs  were  not  bad,  but  accom- 
panied by  a great  deal  of  false  harmonics.” 

At  a club  in  the  house  in  which  we  lived,  I was  invited 

8POHR,  Autobiography.  L 3 


Digitized  by  Google 


34 


to  a card  party  “with  three  Excellencies,  but  was  obliged 
to  pay  dearly  for  the  great  honour,  for  I lost  more  than  three 
thalers  in  a few  hours.” 

Our  departure  for  Riga  was  put  off  until  December  the 
second,  on  account  of  Herr  Eck  recurring  indisposition.  I spent 
my  evenings  at  the  houses  of  Herr  von  Berner  and  von  Korf \ 
in  turn,  and  constantly  practised  with  Fraulein  Brandt.  We 
played  through  the  whole  store  of  sonatas  with  violin  accom- 
paniment, and  many  of  the  masterpieces  of  Mozart  and  Beet - 
hoven  were  thus  brought  under  my  notice  for  the  first  time. 
After  supper  we  chatted  for  an  hour,  or  Frau  von  Korf  played 
at  chess  with  me,  a game  which  from  my  childhood,  I had 
been  passionately  fond  off. 

Herr  von  Berner , who  had  become  attached  to  me,  invited 
me  to  pass  some  months  with  him  in  the  country,  upon  my 
return  from  Petersburgh ; and  then  to  give  some  Concerts  about 
midsummer,  a season  in  which  all  the  Courland  nobility  are 
assembled  at  Mitau.  It  gave  me  great  satisfaction  to  hear 
that  I was  considered  far  unough  advanced  to  appear  in  public 
as  a virtuoso.  I gladly  consented. 

It  is  odd  that  there  is  nothing  mentioned  in  my  diary 
about  the  children  of  Herr  Berner  ; for  one  of  his  daughters 
who  afterwards  became  a pupil  of  Rode,  and  distinguished 
herself  as  a violin  player,  must  already  then  have  been  very 
nearly  grown  up. 

At  last  the  hour  of  our  departure  came,  and  with  a 
moved  and  grateful  heard  I took  leave  of  the  families  who 
had  so  kindly  welcomed  me. 

In  Riga,  I found  a letter  from  Brunswick,  that  gave  me 
much  pleasure.  I had  asked  permission  of  the  Duke  to  de- 
dicate my  new  Concerto,  as  my  first  published  work,  to  him ; 
and  the  answer  written  by  the  Lord  Chamberlain  von  Munch- 
hausen , brought  the  consent  to  my  request.  Full  of  impatience 
to  see  my  work  appear,  I begged  Herr  Eck  to  write  to  Breit - 
kopf  & Hdrtel  in  Leipsic,  with  whom  he  was  in  correspondance, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


35 


to  propose  the  publishing  of  the  concerto.  The  reply  soon 
arrived,  but  was  very  discouraging  to  me. 

For  the  consolation  of  the  young  Composer  who  can  find 
no  publisher  for  his  first  work,  the  conditions  upon  which  the 
above  named  firm  consented  to  undertake  its  publication,  may 
be  mentioned.  I had  myself  given  up  all  claim  to  payment, 
and  only  stipulated  for  some  free  copies.  The  firm  required 
however  that  I should  buy  one  hundred  copies  at  half  the 
selling-price!  At  first  my  youthful  Artist-pride  rebelled  against 
such  dishonourable  conditions,  as  I deemed  them.  But  the 
wish  to  see  the  publication  of  the  concerto  so  expedited,  that, 
upon  our  return  to  Brunswick,  I might  be  able  to  present 
the  Duke  with  a printed  copy;  joined  to  the  hope  that  he  would 
make  me  a present,  assisted  me  to  conquer  my  sensitiveness, 
and  agree  to  the  conditions.  Xhe  concerto  was  finished  in 
time,  and  when  I returned,  was  lying  ready  at  a Music-seller’s 
in  Brunswick;  but  the  package  was  not  delivered  to  me  be- 
fore I had  paid  for  the  hundred  copies. 

In  Riga,  Herr  Eck  had  a quarrel  with  the  Society  of 
Musical  Dilettanti  there.  Being  in  possession  of  the  Concert 
room;  they  required  from  him,  as  from  all  foreign  artists, 
that  he  should  first  perform  in  their  concert,  for  which  they 
were  ready  to  give  him  up  the  room  and  orchestra,  for  his 
own  concert  afterwards.  Herr  Eck  refused  to  comply  with 
these  conditions  and  would  rather  give  up  his  own  concert 
altogether.  This  made  the  company  more  compliant;  and 
they  declared  themselves  satisfied,  if  he  would  agree  to  play 
in  no  other  concert  than  theirs,  after  his  own.  He  consented 
to  this,  on  the  condition  that  they  would  be  silent  about  it 
beforehand:  because  he  had  been  told  that  the  subscribers  to 
the  dilettanti  concerts  would  be  unwilling  to  pay  for  an  extra- 
concert, if  they  were  sure  of  hearing  the  foreign  Artist  in  the 
former.  Silence,  however,  was  not  kept,  and  the  consequence 
was  that  Herr  Eck's  concert  was  badly  attended.  Angry  at 
this,  he  now  demanded  the  sum  of  fifty  ducats  for  his  appear- 
ance in  their  concert,  as  a remuneration  for  the  loss  which 

3* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


36 


their  gossiping  had  caused  him.  The  gentlemen  directors, 
feeling  in  some  degree  that  they  had  been  wrong;  after  long 
debating,  agreed  to  pay  thirty  ducats.  Herr  Eck,  however,  stood 
by  his  first  demand.  The  gentlemen  now  threatened  to  make 
the  police  compel  him  to  appear;  and  he  was  actually  sum- 
moned before  the  Chief  of  the  police.  But  he  succeeded  in 
winning  him  over  to  his  cause,  and  the  gentlemen  directors 
were  dismissed,  with  their  charge.  At  last,  upon  the  day  of 
the  concert,  after  the  bills  parading  forth  the  name  of  Herr 
Eck,  had  been  posted  up  at  the  corners  of  the  streets,  they 
vouchsafed  to  grant  the  required  demand;  but  they  were  not 
a little  surprised  at  the  declaration  of  Herr  Eck,  that,  now, 
after  having  been  summoned  before  the  police  he  would  not 
play  at  all,  not  even  for  double  the  sum  demanded.  All  their 
threatning  and  storming  was  of  no  avail;  they  were  obliged 
to  give  their  concert  without  him.  “I  was  there,”  says  the 
diary,  “and  much  enjoyed  the  fermentation  that  prevailed 
among  the  dilettanti.  Nothing  but  Herr  Eck  and  his  refusal 
were  spoken  of;  but  nobody  said  one  single  word  in  his  favour; 
all  were  too  much  annoyed  at  their  disappointed  expectations. 
The  concert  went  off  badly.  A virtuoso  on  the  flute , from 
Stockholm,  who  first  played  an  old  fashioned  concerto  by 
Bevienne  in  place  of  Herr  Eck , pleased  as  little  as  a dilettante 
from  St.  Petersburgh,  who  executed  a concerto  for  the  piano 
by  Mozart,  in  a most  schoolboy- like  manner.” 

Eck , had  however  won  the  good  will  of  the  Director  of 
the  police,  by  having  offered  to  give  a concert  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Nikolai  Asylum  for  the  poor.  Meirer,  the  Director  of 
the  Theatre,  gave  the  house  gratis,  und  Messeurs  Arnold  and 
Ohmcrnn,  as  well  as  the  ladies  Werther  and  Bauser  gave  their 
vocal  services.  The  Musical  Society  did  all  they  could  to  put 
a stop  to  it;  but  in  vain.  “Immediately  upon  his  appearance 
Herr  Eck  was  received  with  the  liveliest  applause,  which  was 
still  more  increased  after  he  had  played.  The  proceeds,  after 
deducting  the  expenses,  amounted  to  more  than  a hundred 
ducats,  which  were  handed  over  to  the  cashier  of  the  Asylum; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


37 


but  a gift  of  one  hundred  ducats  from  the  nobility  present  was 
also  made  to  Herr  Eck , and  the  next  morning,  fifty  more 
followed  from  several  rich  merchants,  who  did  not  wish  to  be 
behindhand  in  generosity.” 

Among  the  many  invitations,  one  is  also  mentioned  in  the 
diary,  to  the  house  of  the  rich  sugar  baker  Klein , who  “kept 
no  less  than  three  tutors  for  his  children”  — a German,  a 
Frenchman  and  a Russian. 

On  the  seventeenth  of  December  we  quitted  Riga.  In  Narwa 
the  governor,  a great  lover  of  music,  who  had  seen  from  the 
Paderoschna , which  we  were  obliged  to  deliver  up  at  the  gate 
of  the  town,  to  be  examined,  what  a celebrated  Artist  was 
passing  through,  invited  us  immediately  for  the  evening.  “Our 
excuse,  that  we  could  not  appear  in  our  travelling  clothes, 
was  not  accepted.  The  governor  sent  his  state  carriage,  and 
we  were  carried  off  half  by  force.  The  embarrassment  at  find- 
ing ourselves  all  at  once  in  the  midst  of  a brilliant  society, 
clad  in  travelling  costume,  very  soon  wore  off  after  the  friendly 
welcome  and  obliging  politeness  of  those  present,  and  we  passed 
a pleasant  evening.  At  one  o’clock  when  the  party  broke  up, 
we  found  our  carriage  with  post-horses  ready  before  the  door, 
and  set  out  immediately.” 

But,  between  Narwa  and  St.  Petersburgh,  one  misfortune 
after  the  other  occured  to  us.  Two  stations  on  this  side  of 
St.  Petersburgh,  we  were  persuaded  to  place  our  carriage  upon 
a sledge.  But  hardly  had  we  driven  half  an  hour  in  it,  when 
the  cords  with  which  it  was  fastened,  broke,  and  we  could 
get  on  no  farther.  The  postillion  was  obliged  to  get  some 
peasants  from  the  neighbouring  village  to  help  us.  After  the 
job  was  done,  they  made  us  understand  by  signs  that  we  were 
to  pay  them  five  rubles.  Very  angry  at  this  shameful  demand, 
we  refused  to  give  so  much,  but  as  they  shewed  the  intention 
of  cutting  the  cords  with  which  they  had  bound  the  wheels, 
with  their  axes;  and  as  we  saw  that  we  could  not  contend 
against  the  crowd  of  wild  looking  fellows  who  hy  degrees  had 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


38 


t 


surrounded  our  carriage,  we  were  obliged  to  comply  with  the 
demand.” 

“After  a halt  of  more  than  an  hour  we  were  at  last  en- 
abled to  proceed;  but  it  was  not  long  before  we  stuck  fast 
in  the  snow,  and  it  was  only  by  the  help  of  several  peasants 
whom  we  called  to  assist  us,  that  we  were  able  to  extricate 
ourselves.  We  now  found  that  in  the  deep  snow,  the  sledge  hin- 
dered more  than  it  served  us,  and  we  had  the  carriage  taken 
off.  After  this  was  done,  and  paid  for,  we  were  enabled  to  pro- 
ceed; but  again  seven  times  did  we  stick  fast,  so  that  no  less 
than  gixteen  hours  were  necessary  to  accomplish  this  post  of 
three  miles.  As  we  came  nearer  to  St.  Petersburgh  we  found 
the  roads  better,  and  were  also  driven  faster.  At  last,  Wed- 
nesday the  22.  at  nine  in  the  evening,  we  arrived;  after  being 
six  days  and  five  nights  upon  the  road.  The  last  part  of  the 
journey  from  Narwa  to  St.  Petersburgh  is  dreadfully  uniform 
and  tiresome.  The  perfectly  straight  road  cut  through  the 
fir  forests,  with  the  party  coloured  Werst-stones,  each  exactly 
like  the  other,  are  enough  to  weary  the  most  patient!  Seldom 
only  does  the  endless  forest  open , to  disclose  a few  buildings, 
or  a miserable  village.  The  houses,  or  rather  the  huts  of 
these  villages,  have  for  the  most  part,  one  room  only,  with 
a window  a foot  square.  In  this  room,  men  and  animals  live 
together  quite  peaceably.  The  walls  consist  of  unhewn  beams 
laid  upon  each-other,  the  crevices  being  filled  up  with  moss.  It 
cannot  certainly  be  very  warm  in  these  holes;  but  the  inhabitants 
do  not  seem  to  care  for  that;  for  I saw  children  and  grownup 
people  running  about  in  their  shirts,  and  barefoot  in  the  snow. 
The  poorer  and  more  wretched  the  objects  appear  during  the 
journey,  the  more  surprising  is  the  magnificent  St.  Petersburgh 

and  its  palaces We  descended  at  the  Hotel  de  Lon - 

dres,  and  immediately  engaged  a guide,  without  whom  one 
cannot  be  here  even  for  one  day ; for  as  soon  as  the  stranger 
is  shown  his  room,  not  a soul  troubles  himself  about  him 
any  farther.” 

In  St.  Petersburgh,  I was  at  first  quite  left  to  myself. 


Digitized  by  Google 


39 


This  would  therefore  have  been  the  most  favorable  opportunity 
for  me  to  look  round  that  splendid  city.  But  the  extreme 
cold,  which  already  exceeded  twenty  degrees,  would  not  per- 
mit of  this.  I therefore  continued  to  work  with  my  usual 
diligence,  and  indeed  with  increased  zeal,  for  the  period  of 
Herr  Eck's  instruction  was  more  than  half  elapsed.  — Through 
a member  of  the  Imperial  orchestra  we  were  introduced  into 
the  “Citizen  Club,”  and  there  made  the  acquaintance  of  al- 
most all  the  celebrated  artistes  and  scholars  then  in  St.  Pe- 
tersburgh.  Among  others,  my  diary  mentions  Clementi , his 
pupil  Field , the  violinist  Hartmann , the  first  violin  of  the  Im- 
perial orchestra,  Bemi,  also  a member  of  the  orchestra,  Le - 
veque , the  son  of  the  lender  in  Hanover,  and  director  of  an 
orchestra  of  serfs  belonging  the  senator  Teplow , Bdrwald  from 
Stockholm,  the  hornist  Bomaus , and  others. 

dementi , “a  man  in  his  best  years,  of  an  extremely 
lively  disposition,  and  very . engaging  manners,”  liked  much  to 
converse  with  me  “(in  French,  which  from  my  great  prac- 
tice in  St.  Petersburgh  I soon  spoke  pretty  fluently)”  and 
often  invited  me  after  dinner  to  play  at  billiards.  In  the 
evening,  I sometimes  accompanied  him  to  his  large  pianoforte 
warehouse,  where  Field  was  often  obliged  to  play  for  hours, 
to  display  the  instruments  to  the  best  advantage  to  the  pur- 
chasers. The  diary  speaks  with  great  satisfaction  of  the  tech- 
nical perfection  and  the  “dreamy  melancholy”  of  that  young 
artist’s  execution.  I have  still  in  recollection  the  figure  of 
the  pale,  overgrown  youth,  whom  I have  never  since  seen. 
When  Field,  who  had  outgrown  his  clothes,  placed,  himself  at 
the  piano,  stretched  out  his  arms  over  the  keyboard,  so  that 
the  sleeves  shrunk  up  nearly  to  his  elbows,  his  whole  figure 
appealed  awkward  and  stiff  in  the  highest  degree ; but  as  soon 
as  his  touching  instrumentation  began,  everything  else  was 
forgotten,  and  one  became  all  ear.  Unhappily,  I could  not 
express  my  emotion  and  thankfulness  to  the  young  man  other- 
wise than  by  a silent  pressure  of  the  hand,  for  he  spoke  no 
other  language,  but  his  mother  tongue. 


Digitized  by  Google 


40 


Even  at  that  time,  many  anecdotes  of  the  remarkable 
avarice  of  the  rich  Clementi  were  related,  which  had  greatly 
increased  in  latter  years  when  I again  met  him  in  Lon- 
don. It  was  generally  reported  that  Field  was  kept  on  very 
short  allowance  by  his  master,  and  was  obliged  to  pay  for 
the  good  fortune  of  having  his  instruction,  with  many  pri- 
vations. I myself  experienced  a little  sample  of  dementi's 
true  Italian  parsimony,  for  one  day  I found  teacher  and  pupil 
with  up  turned  sleeves,  engaged  at  the  washtub,  washing  their 
stockings  and  other  linen.  They  did  not  suffer  themselves  to 
be  disturbed,  and  dementi  advised  me  to  do  the  same,  as  wash- 
ing in  St.  Petersburgh  was  not  only  very  expensive,  but  the 
linen  suffered  greatly  from  the  method  used  in  washing  it. 

Of  all  the  acquaintances  I made  in  the  Citizen’s  Club, 
none  were  dearer  to  my  than  my  young  friend  Remi.  The 
diary  speaks  of  him  immediately  after  our  first  meeting,  as 
a “polite  and  charming  young  Frenchman.”  The  same  en- 
thusiasm for  art,  the  same  studies  and  the  same  inclinations 
bound  us  yet  closer  to  each -other.  We  met  every  day  at 
dinner  at  the  Citizen’s  Club,  when  I was  not  invited  out  with 
my  Instructor;  and  when  in  the  evening  there  was  no  Opera 
or  Concert  in  which  Remi  was  engaged,  we  played  duets,  of 
which  Remi  possessed  a great  collection,  till  late  in  the  night. 
There  were  many  evenings  in  that  cold  winter  on  which  the 
Theatre  was  closed;  for  by  an  ukas  of  the  benevolent  Empe- 
ror Alexander , all  public  amusements  were  forbidden  when  the 
cold  should  exceed  seventeen  degrees,  in  order  that  the  coach- 
men and  servants  might  not  be  exposed  to  the  danger  of  being 
frozen  to  death.  And  during  that  winter,  the  cold  often  re- 
mained at  above  seventeen  degrees  for  a fortnight  together. 
That  was  a dull,  monotonous  time  for  foreigners.  But  fo- 
reign artistes , were  still  worse  off,  for  they  were  unable  to 
give  their  concerts.  When  the  cold  fell  below  seventeen 
degrees  there  were  notices  innumerable;  but  they  were  often 
obliged  to  be  recalled  on  the  following  day.  Herr  Eck's 
public  concert  was  also  postponed  till  March  6.  0.  S.  after 


Digitized  by 


Google 


41 


having  been  announced  more  than  once.  In  the  mean  time 
however,  he  played  twice  at  Court  at  the  private  Concerts  of  the 
Empress,  and  pleased  so  much,  particularly  the  second  time, 
that  the  Empress  had  him  engaged  as  solo  player  in  the  Im- 
perial Orchestra  at  a salary  of  3500  rubles. 

The  less  frequently  operas  and  concerts  took  place  in  the 
cold  months  of  January  and  February,  the  more  diligently  I 
attended  them,  in  order  to  become  more  nearly  acquainted  with 
the  native  and  foreign  talent.  I also  saw  and  heard  Tietz 
the  celebrated  crazy  violin  player.  He  was  a man  of  about 
forty  years  of  age,  with  a ruddy  complexion,  and  pleasing  ex- 
terior. His  appearance  in  no  wise  showed  his  insanity.  We 
therefore  were  the  more  astonished  when  he  addressed  every  one 
with  the  question,  “My  most  gracious  monarch,  how  are  you?” 
He  then  related  to  us  a long  affair  in  which  was  but  little  evi- 
dence of  sanity ; complained  bitterly  about  a malicious  sorcerer, 
who , jealous  of  his  violin  playing  had  so  bewitched  the  middle 
finger  of  bis  left  hand  that  he  could  no  longer  play;  but  at 
last  expressed  the  hope  that  he  would  still  be  able  to  conquer 
the  spell  — and  so  forth.  On  taking  leave  of  us  he  fell  upon 
his  knees  before  Herr  Eck , kissed  his  hand,  before  the  latter 
could  prevent  it,  and  said,  “My  most  gracious  Monarch,  I 
must  do  homage  to  thee  and  thine  art,  upon  my  knees  1” 

Four  months  later,  in  the  beginning  of  May  1803,  all 
St.  Petersburgh  rang  with  the  sudden  news  that  Tietz,  whom 
the  Russians  in  their  blind  patriotism  regarded  as  the  first 
violinist  in  the  world  and  who  on  account  of  his  madness  had 
not  played  for  six  months,  had  suddenly  commenced  again. 
Leveque  related  the  nearer  particulars  to  me.  Tietz  had  been 
invited  to  a musical  party  at  the  Senator  Teplow’s,  but  had 
refused  to  play  in  spite  of  all  entreaty;  Herr  Teplow , much 
annoyed,  sent  away  the  orchestra  saying,  “Then  I also  will 
never  again  hear  music  I”  This  made  so  deep  an  impression 
upon  Tietz  that  he  said,  “most  gracious  Monarch,  have  the 
orchestra  recalled;  I will  play  a symphony  to  their  accompa- 
niment.” This  took  place,  and  having  once  began,  he  played 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


42 


quartets  until  two  o’clock  in  the  morning.  The  next  day  the 
amateurs  assembled  in  his  house  and  he  played  again.  This 
gave  me  the  hope  of  hearing  him  also,  and  on  that  account 
I hastened  to  him  on  May  the  second  (20.  April).  Many  ama- 
teurs were  once  more  assembled  there,  who  again  beseiged  him 
with  requests  to  play;  this  time  however  in  vain.  He  was  not 
to  be  moved,  and  I afterwards  heard  that  some  one  had  been 
of  the  party  whom  he  did  not  like. 

On  the  eighteenth  of  May  I took  my  new  duet  and  my 
violin,  and  went  again  to  Herr  Tietzy  whom  I this  time  found 
alone.  It  did  not  require  much  to  persuade  him  to  play  the 
duet;  but  he  would  not  take  the  primo.  We  had  hardly  ended, 
when  Herr  Hirschfeld , hornist  in  the  Imperial  orchestra,  and 
others  with  whom  1 was  unacquainted,  came  in.  Herr  Tietz 
begged  me  to  repeat  the  duet,  and  it  appeared  to  please  not 
him  alone,  but  also  the  others.  Herr  Tietz  now  opened  a quar- 
tet by  Haydn , and  required  me  to  take  the  first  violin.  He 
himself  took  the  violoncello  part.  As  the  quartet  was  known 
to  me,  I did  not  refuse.  It  was  pretty  well  executed,  and  Herr 
Tietz,  as  well  as  the  others  present,  owerwhelmed  me  with  praises. 
Tietz  played  the  secondo  of  my  duet,  which  is  not  easy,  with- 
out faltering  and  perfectly  clean,  executing  the  cantabile  pas- 
sages with  taste  and  feeling.  The  passages  which,  according 
to  the  old  method,  he  played  with  rebounding  bow,  pleased 
me  less. 

On  the  23*  May,  we  met  Tietz  at  the  weekly  evening 
concert  of  the  Senator  Teploivy  where  a pianiste  named  Ma- 
dame Meier  appeared , and  played  a piano  concerto  of  her 
own  composition,  which  was  not  bad.  Then  Eck  and  I followed 
with  a concerto  of  his  brother’s,  which  we  had  been  closely 
practising  for  the  previous  fortnight.  At  the  beginning,  I was 
nervous,  and  played  the  first  solo  not  so  well  as  at  home;  but 
it  soon  went  on  better,  particularly  in  the  last  parts. 

Herr  Tietz  now  produced  a concerto  of  his  own  compo- 
sition, the  Allegro  and  Rondo  of  which  he  played  twice,  possibly 
because  the  first  time  did  not  please  him.  As  he  never  had 


Digitized  by 


Google 


practised  since  his  madness,  it  may  be  readily  conceived  that 
technical  firmness  was  wanting  in  his  play.  The  difficult 
passages  also,  were  executed  very  much  better  the  second 
time.  Into  all  the  three  parts,  he  introduced  cadences  in  the 
old  style,  improvising  them;  they  were  in  themselves  very 
pretty,  but  sounded  quite  different  the  second  time.” 

The  diary  closes  with  the  remark,  “though  Tietz  indeed 
is  not  a great  violinist,  much  less  the  greatest  in  the  world 
as  his  admirers  maintain,  he  is  undoubtedly  a musisal  genius 
as  his  compositions  prove.” 

The  best  violinist  then  in  St.  Petersburgh  was,  without 
doubt,  Franzel  junior.  He  had  just  come  from  Moscow  where 
he  had  been  engaged  for  six  concerts  at  three  thousand  rubles. 
His  attitude  in  playing  displeased  me.  The  diary  says: 

“He  holds  the  violin  still  in  the  old  manner,  on  the  right 
side  of  the  tail  piece,  and  must  therefore  play  with  his  head 

bent To  this  must  be  added  that,  he  raised  the  right 

arm  very  high,  and  has  the  bad  habit  of  elevating  his  eye- 
brows at  the  expressive  passages.  If  this  is  not  unpleasant 
to  the  majority  of  the  listeners  it  is  still  very  disagreeable 

for  a violinist  to  see His  playing  is  pure  and  clean. 

In  the  Adagio  parts,  he  executes  many  runs,  shakes,  and  other 
fioriture,  with  a rare  clearness  and  delicacy.  As  soon  how- 
ever as  he  played  loud,  his  tone  is  rough  and  unpleasant,  be- 
cause he  draws  his  bow  too  slowly  and  too  near  to  the  bridge, 
and  leans  it  too  much  to  one  side.  He  executed  the  passages 
clearly  and  purely,  but  always  with  the  middle  of  the  bow, 
and  consequently  without  distinction  of  piano  and  forte.” 

I heard  another  celebrated  violinist,  Herr  Barwald , after- 
wards leader  in  Stockholm.  As  he  came  forward  to  play  the 
concerto  of  Viotti  (A-sharp)  he  was  already  applauded,  before 
he  had  sounded  a note. 

This,  together  with  his  good  bearing  and  his  excellent 
manner  of  managing  his  bow,  raised  my  expectation  very 
high,  and  it  was  with  the  greatest  impatience  that  I awaited 
the  end  of  the  Tutti.  But  who  was  I disappointed  on  hearing 


Digitized  by  Google 


44 


the  solo ! His  playing  was  indeed  clean  and  accomplished,  bat 
still  so  sleeply  and  monotonous,  the  passages  so  flat  and  drawn 
out,  that  I would  have  much  preferred  the  false  but  still  fiery 
playing  of  Pixxs.  He  introduced,  and  played  an  Adagio  of 
his  father’s  composition,  something  better,  and  thus  somewhat 
reconciled  me  again.  After  him,  one  Herr  Palzoic,  a man  cele- 
brated for  his  theoretical  knowledge,  played  a concerto  of  his 
own  composition,  on  a piano  with  a flute  attachment.  Well 
and  scientifically  as  the  concerto  was  worked  out,  it  pleased 
neither  me  nor  the  others  listeners,  on  account  of  its  length 
and  monotony.  The  tones  also  of  the  strings  and  of  the  flute 
had  together  a very  bad  effect. 

I also  wrote  my  opinion  of  Fodor,  the  then  celebrated 
violinist  and  composer.  I heard  him  in  the  concert  of  the 
“Nobility’s,  or  Musical  club,”  where  however  everything  was 
very  unmusical;  for  the  elite  assembled  there,  “not  to  listen, 
but  to  chat  and  walk  about  in  the  saloon.”  At  first  a fine 
symphony  by  Romberg , (C-sharp)  was  extremely  well  executed. 
Then  Signor  Pasco,  first  tenorist  of  the  Italian  theatre,  sang 
an  aria  so  charmingly,  tastefully  and  tenderly,  that  it  actually 
became  somewhat  more  quiet  in  the  saloon.  Herr  Fodor  now 
followed  with  a concerto  of  his  own  composition,  which  how- 
ever appeared  to  me  worse  than  those  I already  knew.  His 
playing  also  did  not  please  me.  He  played  indeed  in  a pure 
and  rather  accomplished  manner,  but  without  warmth  and 
taste.  In  the  passages  he  also  played  with  rebounding  bow, 
which  soon  became  unbearable.  Madame  Cavavassi,  prima 
donna  of  the  Italian  opera  who  before  had  not  pleased  me  on 
the  stage,  sung  this  time  so  beautifully,  that  I must  confess 
to  having  wronged  her. 

During  Lent,  the  Greek  church  allowing  no  theatrical  re- 
presentations, the  Intendancy  of  the  Court  theatre  gave  two 
grand  concerts  weekly  in  the  Steiner  theatre,  in  which,  only 
virtuosi  of  the  Imperial  orchestra  performed,  among  whom  Herr 
Eck  was  now  reckoned.  The  best  whom  I had  the  opportu- 
nity of  hearing  there  were  the  violinist  Hai  ttnann , Jerchow  and 


Digitized  by  G<  - [e 


45 


Remi the  violinist  Delphino,  the  hautboyist  Scherwenka , and 
the  hornist  Hirschfeld . 

In  the  first  concert,  the  orchestra  consisted  of  thirty  six 
violins,  twenty  bass  and  double  set  wind  instruments.  Besides 
these  the  choruses  were  supported  by  forty  hornists  from  the 
Imperial  orchestra,  each  of  whom  had  only  one  single  note 
to  blow.  They  served  in  place  of  an  organ,  and  gave  the 
chorus,  the  notes  of  which  were  divided  among  them,  great 
firmness  and  strength.  In  several  short  soli,  their  effect  was 
ravishing.  Before  the  orchestra,  were  the  Court  singers,  men 
and  boys,  about  fifty  in  number,  all  in  red  uniform  em- 
broidered with  gold.  After  the  first  part  of  Sarti’s  oratorio, 
Remi  played  a violin  concerto  by  Alday  with  much  success. 
“After  the  concert  as  we  drove  home,  he  asked  me  for  my 
opinion  of  his  playing.  As  truth  alone  should  be  spoken  bet- 
ween friends  I did  not  withold  from  him  that  : clean  and  pure 
as  his  playing  was,  I had  yet  missed  the  shades  of  forte  and 
piano,  expression  in  the  cantabile,  and  a sufficiency  of  vigour 
in  the  passages.  He  thanked  me  for  my  candour  and  declared 
that  he  had  been  particularly  embarrassed  that  day,  at  having 
to  appear  in  Herr  Eck’s  place,  the  latter  having  previously 
been  advertised  for  this  concerto.”  — After  the  second  part 
of  the  oratorio,  Signor  Delphino  played  a violin  concerto. 
As  his  playing  was  much  extolled  1 had  expected  more  from 
him.  “He  played  without  taste,  and  not  once  perfectly  clean.” 

The  Italian  singers  appeared  in  the  second  concert,  and 
the  French  in  the  third.  Among  the  first,  Signor  Pasco  and 
Madame  Canavassi,  already  mentioned,  distinguished  them- 
selves. Among  the  French  there  were  only  two,  M.  St.  Leon 
and  the  celebrated  Phyllis  Andrieux,  who  could  lay  claim  to 
be  called  singers;  they  had  charmed  all  Petersburgh  by  their 
correct  and  pleasing  singing,  their  skilful  and  graceful  acting, 
and  their  personal  beauty.  There  was  especially  a Polonaise 
with  which  the  latter  fascinated  everybody,  and  which  was 
always  encored.  The  beginning  of  its  found  in  my  diary  as 
follows : 


Digitized  by  Google 


46 


Between  the  first  and  second  part  of  this  concert,  the  Im- 
perial hornists  executed  an  ouverture  by  Gluck , and  with  a 
rapidity  and  exactness  which  would  have  been  difficult  for 
stringed  intruments,  how  much  the  more  so  then  for  hornists, 
each  of  whom  blew  only  one  tone ! It  is  hardly  to  be  believed 
that  they  performed  the  most  rapid  passages  with  the  greatest 
precision,  and  I could  not  have  conceived  it  possible,  had  I 
not  heard  it  with  my  own  ears.  But  as  may  be  imagined, 
the  Adagio  of  the  ouverture  made  a greater  effect  than  the 
Allegro ; for  it  always  remains  somewhat  unnatural  to  execute 
such  quick  passages  with  these  living  organ  pipes,  and  one 
could  not  help  thinking  of  the  thrashings  which  must  have  been 
inflicted. 

These  concerts,  with  the  exception  <of  one  in  which  Herr  Eck 
played  and  Mademoiselle  Phyllis  sang,  were  but  little  frequented ; 
for  which  reason  the  managers  soon  discontinued  them. 

On  the  other  hand  a performance  of  Haydn's  “Seasons” 
which  was  given  for  the  benefit  of  a widow’s  fund,  (also  dur- 
ing Lent,)  was  very  well  attended.  Baron  Rail , one  of  the 
projectors  invited  me  also  to  take  part.  I therefore  shared 
in  all  the  orchestra  rehearsals,  and  in  these,  as  well  as  in  the 
performance,  played  with  M.  Leveque , the  same  part.  The 
orchestra  was  larger  than  any  I had  yet  heard.  It  consisted 
of  seventy  violins,  thirty  bass,  and  double  set  wind  instruments. 
The  whole  therefore  was  something  very  grand,  and  my  diary 
mentions  it  with  delight;  as  also  of  the  work  itself,  which  I 
then  heard  for  the  first  time,  although  I estimated  the  “Crea- 
tion” yet  highe rl 

My  playing  thus  with  Leveque , had  increased  our  friend- 
ship, and  I learned  from  him  that,  during  the  summer  he  in- 
tended to  visit  his  parents  in  Hanover.  We  therefore  agreed 
to  make  the  voyage  to  Liibeck  in  the  same  vessel. 


Digitized  by  Google 


47 


As  my  new  friend  now  visited  me  oftener,  I played  my 
new  violin  concerto  to  him,  and  expressed  my  wish,  to  hear 
it  with  the  orchestra  before  I sent  it  to  the  publisher*  Le - 
veque  immediately  offered  to  study  it  with  his  orchestra,  took 
the  parts  with  him,  and  invited  me  to  a rehearsal  some  days 
later. 

“I  was  in  great  agitation  now  that  I was  about  to  hear 
my  own  composition  with  full  orchestra  for  the  first  time.  The 
Tutti  were  well  studied,  and  from  this  I could  calculate  how, 
in  every  part,  the  effect  I intended  would  be  brought  out. 
The  most  of  them  satisfied  me,  some  even  surpassed  my  ex- 
pectation  But  I was  the  less  pleased  with  my  own 

play.  All  my  attention  being  fixed  on  the  accompaniment,  I 
played  much  worse  than  I did  at  home.  I therefore  begged 
permission  of  Mr.  Leveque  to  try  the  concerto  once  more  at 
the  end  of  eight  or  ten  days,  when  I should  have  received  the 
copy;  this  permission  he  readily  granted.” 

The  following  appears  later:  “I  got  the  copy  of  my  con- 
certo yesterday,  for  which  I was  obliged  to  pay  eight  silver 
rubles.  I could  have  had  six  concertos  copied  for  a like  sum 
in  Germany.” 

The  work  was  again  tried  from  the  new-copied  parts.  I 
was  much  calmer  than  the  first  time,  and  played  therefore 
much  better.  It  was  also  better  accompanied  than  before,  and 
therefore  more  effective.  Leveque  declared  himself  very  well 
satisfied.  “I  therefore  hastened  home,  packed  up  my  concerto 
and  took  it,  together  with  a letter,  to  the  post.  I there  heard 
to  my  great  amazement,  that  there  was  no  parcel’s  post  in 
Russia  by  which  one  can  send  things  out  of  the  country,  and 
that  if  I would  send  it  as  a letter  I should  have  to  pay  at 
least  fifty  rubles.”  I therefore  took  it  back  in  order  to  send 
it  by  sea  by  the  next  opportunity. 

I have  mentioned  the  Imperial  hornband,  each  member 
of  which  had  only  one  note  to  play.  On  the  twelvth  of  Ja- 
nuary, the  Russian  Newyear,  upon  which  day  the  Emperor,  as 
usual,  gave  a grand  masquerade  in  the  Winterpalace,  for  which 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


twelve  thousand  tickets  were  issued,  I found  the  said  band 
joined  with  the  usual  Ball  - orchestra , and  I heard  a music 
such  as  till  then  I had  no  idea  of.”  The  accompaniment  of 
this  hornband  gave  a fullness  and  harmony  to  the  orchestra 
such  as  I have  never  heard.  Several  Horn- Soli,  produced  a 
most  enchanting  effect.  It  was  long  before  I could  tear  my- 
self away  from  this  place.” 

In  another  saloon  opposite  the  Throne-room,  the  Imperial 
family,  surrounded  by  the  Court,  were  dancing.  But  as  this 
part  of  the  saloon  was  cut  off  from  the  rest  by  a wall  of 
gigantic  grenadiers  with  high  bearskin  caps,  and  as  I,  inspite 
of  my  fair  allowance  of  inches,  could  not  even  peep  over  the 
shoulders  of  these  giants,  I was  unable  to  see  much  of  the 
Imperial  state,  and  of  the  diamonds  of  the  ladies.  I therefore 
passed  on,  and  entered  the  third  and  most  beautiful  of  the 
saloons.  It  is  entirely  of  polished  marbles,  the  wails  white, 
the  pillars  violet,  and  the  window  frames  blue.  The  lights 
mirrored  themselves  a thousandfold  in  the  polished  stone.  The 
whole  building  was  lighted  by  twenty  thousand  wax  tapers. 

“After  wandering  several  times  through  the  apartments, 
and  having  gazed  at  all  the  magnificence,  I tried  to  find  Herr 
Eck  again,  he  having  been  separated  from  me  in  the  beginning 
of  the  evening.  Among  the  twelve  thousand  present  this  was 
however  a vain  attempt.  I now  guessed  that  he  had  gone  direct 
home,  and  not  findiug  our  servant  in  the  place  where  he  had 
been  desired  to  wait,  confirmed  me  still  more  in  this  idea.  I 
therefore  thought  it  best  to  proceed  home,  also,  and  hoped, 
thoroughly  warmed  as  I was,  to  be  able  to  go  the  short  dis- 
tance to  our  hotel  without  a cloak,  although  the  cold  had 
increased  to  twenty  four  degrees.  But  hardly  had  I reached 
the  square  before  the  Winterpalace,  on  the  opposite  side  of 
which  was  our  hotel,  then  1 felt  my  nos  * and  ears  stiffen,  and 
should  certainly  have  had  them  frozen,  although  I rubbed  them 
unceasingly,  had  I not  been  able  to  warm  myself  at  a large  fire 
in  the  middle  of  the  square  which  had  been  lighted  for  the 
coachmen ; before  I attempted  the  other  half  of  the  way.  Un- 


Digitized  by  Google 


49 


luckily,  however,  Herr  JSck  had  not  yet  come  home,  and  as 
he  had  the  key  to  our  apartment,  and  the  coffeeroom  was 
already  locked,  I resolved  to  return  again.  Arrived  there  I 
managed  to  press  forward  to  a buffet,  and  warm  myself  with 
a glass  of  punch.  While  I was  observing  the  rich  gold  and 
silver  plate  with  which  the  room  was  decorated,  Herr  Eck 
also  came  to  the  buffet.  Arm  in  arm  we  wandered  through 
the  magnificient  rooms  once  more,  and  then  our  servant  with 
our  cloaks  having  once  more  turned  up,  drove  off  together. 
My  friend  Remi,  to  whom  I related  my  adventure,  blamed  me 
much  for  my  want  of  precaution.” 

On  the  27.  Feb.  the  so  called  “mad  week”  came  to  an 
end.  It  has  its  name  from  the  circumstance  of  the  Russians 
allowing  themselves  the  most  boundless  extravagancies  as  a 
sort  of  indemnification  for  the  ensuing  fast.  “Not  being 
allowed  to  taste  either  meat,  milk,  or  butter  for  six  weeks, 
they  cram  themselves  well  for  the  last  time,  and  give  them- 
selves so  diligently  to  the  brandy  bottle,  that  they  do  not  re- 
cover their  sobriety,  and  in  this  state  allow  themselves  every 
possible  liberty,  thinking  to  atone  fully  for  all  in  the  follow- 
ing fast.  — In  all  parts  of  the  town,  booths  are  erected, 
in  which  fruit,  liquors,  and  comfits  are  sold.  In  others,  Po- 
lichinelli,  trained  dogs,  juggler’s  tricks  and  other  things  of 
the  kind  are  exhibited.  The  chief  delight  of  the  Russians 
during  this  week  is  sliding  down  the  ice -mountains,  most 
likely  because  it  is  such  a break-neck  sport.  Upon  the  Ne- 
wa,  and  in  various  other  places,  high  scaffoldings  are  erected, 
having  on  one  side  a flight  of  steps  by  which  to  ascend  to  the 
top,  and  on  the  other  an  incline  descending  gradually  to 
the  ground.  This  incline  is  laid  down  with  large  slabs  of 
ice,  which  are  joined  together  in  the  closest  manner  by  water 
poured  between  the  interstices.  Down  this  glass-like  surface 
of  ice , the  descent  is  then  made  in  little  sledges  shod  with 
steel,  and  these  are  guided  by  means  of  a short  staff  held 
in  each  hand.  Great  skill  is  required  in  order  to  keep  the 
middle  of  the  incline  during  the  extreme  velocity  of  the  des- 

SPOHR,  Autobiography . X.  4 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


50 


cent,  so  as  not  to  fall  over  the  sides  which  are  protected  by 
a slight  barrier  only.  Four  drunken  Russians,  who  had  scar- 
cely started,  having  come  in  contact  with*  each  other’s  sledges 
and  being  thereby  brought  too  near  the  barrier,  paid  dearly 
for  their  awkwardness.  They  fell  over;  two  were  killed  upon 
the  spot  and  the  others  were  carried  away  with  broken  limbs. 
But  this  did  not  in  the  least  disturb  the  enjoyment  of  the 
people,  who  pressed  forward  anew  in  crowds  to  the  steps. 
On  the  26,  the  Court  drove  out  to  the  scene,  and  remained 
for  a long  time  spectators  of  the  neck-breaking  amusement. 
At  an  evening  party  at  Baron  Rail's,  I met  also  the  Gover- 
nor of  Narva,  who  upon  our  passing  through  that  town, 
had  had  us  fetched  almost  forcibly  to  his  house.  He  enquired 
in  a friendly  manner  after  my  health;  and  added  “on  your 
return  through  Narva  you  will  find  the  Petersburgh  gate  open, 
but  the  opposite  one  closed,  and  then  you  must  remain  my 
prisoner  for  eight  days  without  mercy.” 

“This  evening,  Field  played  as  well  as  Herr  Eck,  and 
in  truth  wonderfully.  At  two  o’clock,  the  company  sat  down 
to  supper,  and  we  did  not  arrive  home  till  past  four  o’clock.” 

On  the  5.  April,  my  birth-day;  Herr  Eck  invited  me  to 
dine  at  the  Hotel  de  Londres.  Previous  to  this,  availing  our- 
selves of  the  fine  weather  we  took  a walk  on  the  Newa,  the 
granite-faced  bank  of  which  was  the  resort  of  the  beau  monde. 
The  breaking  up  of  the  ice  was  impatiently  looked  for,  and 
heavy  bets  were  made  respecting  the  day  on  which  this 
would  take  place.  — In  the  evening  I had  a great  and  un- 
expected pleasure. 

uRemi  had  again  invited  me  to  play  duetts  with  him, 
and  to  day  I was  able  to  bring  him  a new  one  of  my  com- 
position. After  we  had  played  this  through  for  the  second 
time,  he  embraced  me  and  said:  You  must  change  violins 
with  me,  so  that  we  may  both  possess  a souvenir  of  each 
other!  I was  overcome  with  surprise  and  joy;  for  his  vio- 
lin had  long  pleased  me  better  than  my  own.  But  as  it  was 
a genuine  Guameri,  ,and  at  least  worth  as  much  again  as 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


51 


mine,  I felt  obliged  to  decline  his  offer.  He,  however,  would 
hear  of  no  refusal  and  said:  Your  violin  pleases  me  because 
I have  heard  you  play  on  it  so  frequently,  and  though 
mine  is  really  a better  one;  yet  you  must  accept  it  from  me 
as  a birth- day  present!  I could  now  no  longer  refuse,  and 
overjoyed  carried  my  new  treasure  home  with  me.  Here  I 
would  have  liked  but  too  well  to  play  on  it  all  night,  and 
feast  my  ears  with  its  heavenly  tones ; but  as  Herr  Eck  was 
already  gone  to  bed,  1 was  obliged  to  let  it  lie  quietly  in  its 
case.  Sleep,  however,  I could  not!”  On  the  12.  April,  Herr 
Leveque  came  for  me  to  take  a walk  down  to  the  Newa.  “We 
there  found  half  St.  Petersburgh  assembled,  awaiting  the  break- 
ing up  of  the  ice.  At  length,  a cannon  shot  from  the 
fortress  announced  the  long  desired  moment.  This  was  also 
the  signal  for  the  sailors  to  break  up  the  long  bridge  of 
boats  which  connects  Wasiliostrow  with  this  part  of  the 
city.  This  was  effected  in  a few  minutes.  The  ice  could  now 
float  down  unimpeded,  and  in  a short  time  boats  were  being 
rowed  up  and  down.  The  first  of  these  brought  over  the  Go- 
vernor of  the  fortress,  who  accompanied  by  a numerous 
suite  and  by  the  band  of  the  regiment,  brings  over  a glass 
of  the  water  of  the  Newa  to  the  Emperor  in  his  Palace,  and 
receives  for  it  a present  of  1000  roubles.  After  this,  the 
serf-seamen  of  the  Crown  in  red  uniforms  row  all  comers 
to  and  fro  across,  without  charge,  until  the  communication 
by  the  bridge  of  boats  is  re-established  between  both  sides  of 
the  town.  After  we  had  looked  on  all  this  with  great  in- 
terest, walking  up  and  down  for  some  hours,  we  returned 
home.” 

On  Easter-Eve,  Sunday,  17.  April,  1 was  awakened  by 
the  firing  of  cannon , which  announced  the  commencement 
of  the  Festival.  As  the  night  was  very  calm,  every  shot 
was  heard  in  long  repeated  echoes,  until  another  fell  upon 
the  ear.  — On  Easter  Sunday  the  Russian  greets  his  ac- 
quaintances with  the  words:  “Christ  is  risen  1”  upon  which 
the  person  saluted  is  obliged  to  kiss  the  other.  One  need 

4* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


52 


only  go  to  the  window , to  see  people  on  all  sides  embracing 
and  kissing  each  other.  It  was  related  to  me  that,  “the  Emp- 
ress Catherine  was  walking  on  the  bank  of  the  Newa  one 
Easter  Sunday  accompanied  by  all  her  Court,  when  a dirty 
fellow,  probably  somewhat  drunk,  threw  himself  in  her  way 
with  the  salutation:  “Christ  is  risen”  upon  which  in  order 
not  to  violate  the  holy  custom,  she  was  obliged  to  kiss  him. 
But , upon  a sign  given  by  her , he  was  immediately  seized, 
and  had  ample  time  afterwards  in  Siberia  to  repent  of  his 
boldness  I” 

A few  weeks  afterwards,  I received  a commission  from 
Breitkopf  & Hdrtel  of  Leipsic  to  write  an  article  upon  the 
state  of  Music  in  St.  Petersburgh  for  their  Journal,  which 
was  published  in  the  course  of  1803. 

On  the  13.  May,  a most  original  popular  Festival  took 
place.  Every  body  who  possesses  either  a carriage,  a horse, 
or  a sound  pair  of  legs,  betakes  himself  on  this  day  through 
the  Riga  gate  to  the  Katharinen  Hof;  where  they  stare  at  each 
other  for  a couple  of  hours  and  then  return  home.  I went 
there  with  Leveque , and  must  confess,  that  the  sight  of  the 
handsome  equipages,  of  which  there  may  have  been  at  least 
two  thousand,  together  with  their  fashionably  dressed  occupants, 
afforded  me  much  amusement.  Katharinen  Hof  is  a small  wood, 
which  considering  the  climate  looks  tolerably  green.  From 
here  one  has  a fine  view  of  the  sea.  In  the  middle  of  the 
wood  stands  the  Summer-Palace  of  Peter  the  Great,  which  to- 
gether with  its  antique  furniture  is  still  kept  up  in  exactly 
the  same  condition  as  when  he  lived  there.  It  is  a very 
poor  looking  place,  and  more  like  the  house  of  a citizen  than 
the  Palace  of  a mighty  Emperor.  We  returned  home  by 
another  road,  and  saw  numerons  fine  Villas  and  gardens,  of 
which  there  are  a great  number  outside  this  gate.” 

Thus  amid  various  occupations,  and  short  excursions  to 
view  the  magnificent  City,  the  time  of  our  departure  drew 
nigh.  We  agreed  for  our  passage  by  sea  with  a Lubeck 
captain  to  whom  for  the  voyage  inclusive  of  board  for 


Digitized  by  Google 


53 


both  of  us,  we  paid  20  ducats.  Just  before  we  left,  we  were 
present  during  the  celebration  of  another  grand  Festival  which 
I have  minutely  described.  It  was  the  Jubilee  commemor- 
ating the  foundation  of  St.  Petersburgh  by  Peter  the  Great, 
one  hundred  years  since. 

On  the  28.  May,  the  whole  garrison  assembled  on  the 
Isaak  Square  and  was  drawn  up  and  commanded  by  the 
Emperor  in  person.  In  his  suite  rode  the  whole  of  the 
General  Staff,  and  the  Ambassadors  from  Foreign  Courts.  At 
ten  o’clock  the  Empress  made  her  appearance  with  the  Court, 
occupying  some  twenty  magnificent  carriages.  The  State 
Carriage  in  which  the  Empress  mother  sat  by  the  side  of  the 
Empress,  was  covered  with  gilding  and  richly  inlaid  with  precious 
stones.  On  the  top  of  the  carriage  was  a crown  of  brilliants, 
fixed  upon  a purple  cushion.  This  state  carriage  was  drawn 
by  eight  cream  coloured  horses  in  silver  harness,  ornamented 
also  with  precious  stones.  The  other  Court  carriages  which 
were  also  very  handsome,  were  each  drawn  by  six  horses. 
The  Emperor  rode  a magnificent  horse  richly  caparisoned,  but 
was  otherwise  dressed  in  a very  plain  uniform.  In  his  suite 
was  a Turkish  Prince  who  attracted  the  attention  of  all  by 
the  splendour  of  his  dress.  The  hilt  of  his  sabre  was  covered 
with  diamonds,  and  his  stirrups  and  spurs  were  of  mas- 
sive gold.  When  the  cortege  had  arrived  in  front  of  the 
Isaak’s  Church,  the  Emperor  dismounted  and  led  the  Empress 
into  the  edifice,  where  the  Te-Deum  laudamus  was  immedia- 
tely chaunted  by  the  Singers  of  the  Court.  Unfortunately 
we  were  not  successful  in  our  effort  to  get  into  the  Church, 
as  the  doors  were  closed  immediately  after  the  entrance  of  the 
Court.  But  it  is  very  probable  that  even  in  the  interior  of 
the  building  little  of  the  Music  could  be  heard  , for  not  only 
were  all  the  bells  set  ringing,  but  salvos  of  artillery  were 
feed  from  the  fortress,  and  by  the  ships  of  war  lying  in  the 
Newa.  The  Military  drawn  up  on  the  Square  before  the 
Church  increased  the  noise  yet  more  by  the  fire  of  musketry, 
and  the  populace  were  not  at  all  backward  in  shouting,  so 


Digitized  by  Google 


54 


in  this  manner  not  a single  note  of  the  Music  reached  us  on 
the  square.  After  the  Service  was  ended,  the  Court  procee- 
ded on  foot  through  two  lines  of  soldiers  to  the  Senate  House. 
What  ceremonies  took  place  there,  I was  unable  to  ascertain. 
After  the  space  of  about  half  an  hour,  the  Court  resumed 
their  places  in  the  carriages,  and  the  cortege  returned  in 
the  same  order  to  the  palace.  In  the  evening  the  City  was 
brilliantly  illuminated,  and  more  so  than  I had  ever  yet  seen. 
At  nine  o’clock,  Leveque  came  to  fetch  me,  and  took  me  first 
of  all  to  the  Summer  Garden.  Dark  clouds  hung  in  the 
sky,  and  threatened  to  extinguish  the  lamps  which  had  been 
but  just  lighted,  with  a heavy  shower.  With  the  now  clear 
nights,  when  it  keeps  so  light  till  midnight  that  one  can 
read  and  write  without  a candle,  this  black  sky  was  most 
welcome,  for  otherwise  the  illumination  would  have  been  less 
effective.  The  Garden  was  very  brilliantly  lit  up.  On  both 
sides  of  the  alleys  a wooden  frame  work  had  been  raised 
which  was  thickly  hung  with  glass  lamps  of  different  colours. 
At  the  end  of  the  Alleys,  were  seen  brilliantly  illuminated 
triumphal  arches,  in  the  centre  of  which  shone  the  capital 
letters  P (Peter)  and  A (Alexander).  The  whole  of  the  Pa- 
villions  throughout  the  garden  were  also  lit  up  in  a splendid 
and  tasteful  manner. 

But  the  Fortress  presented  a truly  magic  sight,  as  on 
leaving  the  Garden  we  came  on  the  bank  of  the  Newa.  It 
swam  in  a very  sea  of  fire ! The  granite  masonry  of  the  walls 
was  hung  with  white  lamps,  the  pillars  and  the  cornice  of 
the  entrance  gate  with  red,  and  the  sentry  boxes  on  the  top  of 
the  ramparts  with  blue.  The  graceful  tower  of  the  fortress 
was  lit  up  to  its  topmost  point,  and  as  there  was  no  wind, 
there  was  not  even  one  lamp  that  did  not  burn.  From  the 
place  where  we  stood,  the  whole  fairy  like  scene  was  again 
seen  reflected  in  the  Newa  at  our  feetl  It  was  indeed  an 
enchanting  sight!  But  the  sky  grew  constantly  darker  and 
more  threatening;  we  were  therefore  obliged  to  make  haste, 
in  order  to  see  other  parts  of  the  city.”  “Near  the  bridge, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


55 


which  was  also  brilliantly  illuminated,  we  saw  a large  ship 
hung  with  lamps  up  to  the  very  tops  of  the  masts,  between 
which  countless  streamers  were  waving. 

The  streets  which  radiate  from  the  Admiralty  in  the 
form  of  a fan,  many  of  which  are  above  two  miles  in  length, 
were  lit  up  as  light  as  day,  and  presented  a magnificent  sight, 
with  the  merry  crowds  streaming  through  them  in  their  gayest 
attire.  Among  the  Public  Buildings  which  were  richly  decor- 
ated with  transparencies  and  devices , the  Admiralty  was 
especially  conspicuous.  Some  private  houses  also,  exhibited 
transparencies,  among  others  that  of  the  Grand  Chamberlain 
Narischkin;  in  which,  Mars,  accompanied  by  the  allegorical 
figures  of  Wisdom  and  Justice,  crowned  the  letters  P.  and  A., 
the  first  of  which  had  beneath  it  the  Inscription:  Gloire  du 
premier  Siecle,  and  the  last:  Gloire  du  second  Siecle!  — We 
now  followed  the  stream  of  the  multitude,  which  pressed  for- 
ward to  the  Summer  Garden  where  a display  of  Fire  Works 
was  to  take  place.  But  we  had  scarcely  reached  the  Arcades 
of  the  Winter  Palace,  when  a sudden  torrent  of  rain  put 
an  end  at  once  to  the  splendour  of  the  scene,  and  St.  Peters- 
burgh  but  a few  minutes  before  brilliant  as  with  the  light  of 
day,  was  shrouded  in  Egyptian  darkness  1 Under  the  Arcades 
of  the  Square  where  we  had  taken  shelter,  was  the  only  place 
that  remained  illuminated.  This  circumstance  procured  for  us 
a curious  and  amusing  spectacle.  The  mass  of  people  all 
dressed  in  their  various  coloured  Sunday  attire,  who  were 
flying  home  out  of  the  Summer  Garden,  were  obliged  to  pass 
in  review  before  the  place  where  we  stood,  and  dripping  with 
rain  they  presented  a comical  sight  enough.  Some  women  had 
drawn  their  dresses  over  their  heads  in  place  of  umbrellas; 
others,  trusting  to  the  darkness,  had  even  taken  off  their  shoes 
and  stockings  to  save  them,  and  waded  by  barefooted,  not  a 
little  discomposed  at  being  obliged  to  pass  by  a place  lit  up 
so  brightly,  and  filled  with  laughing  spectators.  At  length 
after  about  an  hour,  the  rain  ceased,  and  we  now  could  also 
return  to  our  homes.  On  the  1.  June,  (20.  May)  I packed  up 


Digitized  by  Google 


56 


my  last  things  and  then  went  to  take  leave  of  my  friends 
and  acquaintances.  The  parting  from  my  kind  friend  Remi, 
was  very  painful,  and  cost  us  both  many  tears.  He  promi- 
sed  in  a few  years  to  pay  me  a visit  in  Germany.  My  leave 
taking  from  my  Instructor  to  whom  I owed  so  much,  was 
a very*sad  one,  and  the  more  so,  that  for  some  time  past  he 
had  again  been  very  unwell,  and  I therefore  feared  I should 
never  see  him  again! 

This  fear  was  but  too  well  grounded;  we  never  saw  each 
other  more!  Respecting  his  subsequent  and  in  part  highly 
romantic  fate,  I have  learned  the  following,  but  cannot  pledge 
myself  for  its  entire  truth,  since  I derived  it  for  the  most 
part  from  hearsay. 

At  the  time  I left  St.  Petersburgh,  Eck  had  entered  upon 
a love  affair  with  a daughter  of  a Member  of  the  Imperial 
Orchestra,  but  without  the  least  notion  of  marrying  the  girl. 
Shocked  at  such  levity,  1 thought  it  my  duty  to  caution  the 
parents.  I did  so  ; but  my  warning  was  received  with  coldness 
and  disbelief.  Some  months  afterwards,  when  the  visits  of 
Herr  Eck  had  suddenly  ceased,  the  daughter  confessed  with 
tears  that  she  had  been  seduced  by  him,  and  that  she  already 
felt  the  consequences  of  it  Her  mother,  a resolute  woman, 
succeeded  in  obtaining  an  audience  of  the  Emperor;  threw 
herself  at  his  feet,  and  implored  the  restitution  of  her  daugh- 
ter’s honour.  The  Emperor  consented.  In  true  Russo-Impe- 
rial style  he  offered  Herr  Eck  the  choice : either  to  marry  his 
sweetheart  within  twenty  four  hours,  on  prepare  for  a 
promenade  to  Siberia.  Herr  Eck  naturally  chose  the  former. 
That  a marriage  sprung  out  of  such  circumstances  would  soon 
become  a hell  upon  earth,  may  easily  be  imagined.  Eck, 
whose  health  had  been  already  greatly  shattered  by  his  for- 
mer excesses,  could  not  long  endure  the  effects  of  the  daily 
recurring  matrimonial  discords.  He  lost  his  senses,  and  soon 
became  so  furious,  that  the  mother  in  law  was  again  obliged 
to  entreat  the  Emperor’s  assistance.  He  granted  a dissolution 
of  the  marriage;  gave  the  wife  a pension,  and  ordered  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


57 


husband  to  be  sent  under  proper  care  to  his  brother,  at 
Nancy.  The  selection  of  the  man  to  whom  the  unfortunate 
sufferer  and  the  sum  granted  by  the  Emperor  for  the  journey 
were  entrusted,  was  however,  a very  unluckly  one,  and  failed 
in  its  object;  for  scarcely  had  he  arrived  in  Berlin  with  the  in- 
valid, than  he  declared  to  the  Russian  Ambassor  these,  that 
the  money  was  expended , and  therefore  he  could  accompany 
his  charge  no  farther.  At  the  Same  time  he  laid  before 
the  Ambassor  an  account  of  his  expenses,  according  to  which 
indeed,  the  sum  given  by  the  Emperor  was  exhausted.  There 
were  however  some  very  extraordinary  items  in  the  account; 
among  others,  a dinner  of  one  hundred  covers,  which  the 
lunatic  had  ordered  without  the  knowledge  of  * his  guardian, 
in  one  of  the  first  Hotels  in  Riga,  and  which  the  latter  had 
been  obliged  to  pay.  Whether  the  Ambassador  remained  satis- 
fied with  this  account,  was  never  known;  but  the  Guardian 
disappeared  all  of  a sudden! 

In  the  meantime,  the  lunatic  finding  that  he  was  no 
longer  watched,  was  seized  with  the  desire  to  escape.  One 
evening,  half  dressed  only,  he  succeeded  in  slipping  out  of  his 
room  unperceived ; and  as  there  was  a heavy  fall  of  snow  at 
the  time,  he  effected  his  escape  unperceived  through  the  city 
gate.  He  had  already  got  some  miles  from  Berlin  when  he 
was  seized  by  some  peasants,  and  as  they  believed  him  to  be 
an  escaped  convict  they  brought  him  back  bound  to  the 
city.  At  the  Police  Office,  the  poor  half  frozen  fugitive  was 
soon  discovered  to  be  a lunatic,  and  handed  over  to  the  Asy- 
lum for  the  insane.  Some  members  of  the  Court  Orchestra 
who  a few  years  before  had  known  and  admired  the  unfor- 
tunate man  in  the  height  of  bis  artistic  career,  became  inter- 
ested for  him.  They  set  on  foot  a subscription  among  their 
colleagues  and  some  wealthy  amateurs  of  the  Art,  and  with 
the  proceeds  they  sent  him  under  the  care  of  a trustworthy 
man  to  his  brother  at  Nancy.  The  latter  procured  for  him 
a becoming  treatment  in  the  Asylum  at  Strasbourg,  where  he 
remained  for  several  years.  His  misfortune  then  reached 


Digitized  by 


Google 


58 


the  ears  of  his  former  patroness  the  Dowager  Electress  of 
Bavarin,  who  sent  him  to  a clergyman  of  Offenbach  or  some- 
where near  that  place,  who  devoted  himself  to  the  cure  of  the 
insane.  There,  it  is  said,  if  not  quite  cured,  he  became  much  more 
composed,  so  that  a violin  could  again  be  placed  in  his  hands, 
from  which  it  is  said  he  drew  the  most  touching  melodies. 
After  the  death  of  the  Electress  he  was  then  placed  in  the 
Asylum  for  the  insane  at  Bamberg,  where,  either  in  1809  or 
1810,  he  died. 

On  the  2.  June  (21.  May)  at  9 in  the  morning,  we  sailed 
from  St.  Petersburgh. 

“On  passing  a guard  ship  at  the  mouth  of  the  Newa  we 
were  compelled  to  show  our  passports,  these  were  returned  to 
us  without  charge,  which  from  our  previous  experience  as- 
tonished us  greatly.  As  the  wind  was  against  us,  the  sailors 
were  obliged  to  row  continually,  this  made  the  progress 
slow  and  at  length  very  tedious;  so  that  we  were  very  glad 
when  at  last  we  arrived  at  2 o’clock  at  Cronstadt.  We  there 
put  up  at  the  German  eating  house,  the  master  of  which  had 
been  recommended  to  us  for  his  honesty.  But  with  all  that, 
he  retained  also  the  thorough  bluntness,  not  to  say  rudeness 
of  his  class,  for  when  we  returned  at  9 in  the  evening  from 
a walk,  and  asked  for  supper , he  replied  with  a true  north- 
German  accent:  now  is  no  time  for  eating,  people  go  to  bed 
now!  And  with  that  he  turned  his  back  upon  us.  Dumb- 
struck, we  went  up  stairs,  and  had  already  made  up  our  minds 
that  we  must  go  hungry  to  bed,  when  he  at  length  had  us  call- 
ed down  to  supper.  At  first  we  were  much  inclined  to  refuse  it; 
but  our  hunger  got  the  better  of  our  sensitiveness.  We 
went  down,  found  a right  good  repast,  and  the  host  who 
waited  upon  us  himself,  sought  to  make  amends  for  his  pre- 
vious rudeness  by  the  most  friendly  behaviour.” 

It  was  not  until  after  some  days  that  the  wind  became  fair 
for  the  farther  voyage;  but  very  soon,  and  for  a very  long 
time,  the  “Saturn”  — so  our  ship  was  called  — was  obliged  to 
tack  about,  and  on  the  14  June  “we  were  still  not  far  distant 


Digitized  by 


Google 


59 


from  the  high  land,  which  we  had  already  reached  on  the  first 
day.”  On  the  second  day  the  sea  rose  very  high,  and  the 
passengers  therefore,  three  women  and  nine  men,  became 
all  sea-sick  one  after  the  other.  With  me  it  began  with 
a head  ache.  “I  felt  my  courage  so  depressed,  that  I bitterly 
repented  to  have  come  by  sea.”  But  on  the  fourth  day  I 
got  better,  and  in  a short  time,  although  the  sea  was  still 

very  rough,  I felt  as  well  as  on  land.  It  was  not  so 

with  all,  for  the  ladies  and  also  some  of  the  gentlemen  were 
for  a long  time  sick  and  invisible.  Leveque  and  I amused  our- 
selves meanwhile  very  well.  We  played  duetts,  read,  wrote, 
and  made  sketches;  walked  up  and  down  the  deck  and  ate 
and  drank  with  real  appetite.  In  this  way  passed  day  after 
day.  But  like  the  others,  we  longed  for  a fair  wind,  “for  this 
eternal  tacking,  with  which  one  makes  but  little  progress,  is 
quite  unbearable  1” 

On  the  15  June,  the  wind  grew  fair;  on  the  16,  it  fell 
almost  calm,  and  on  the  20,  we  had  a storm.  This  was  so 

violent  that  the  ship  cracked  in  every  timber.  “I  crept  ill 

as  I was,  upon  deck,  to  see  the  terribly  grand  spectacle.  I 
got  thoroughly  drenched  it  is  true,  for  the  waves  broke  every 
moment  over  the  deck,  nor  could  I long  endure  above  the 
piercing  wind  and  cold.  But  it  was  worth  the  effort,  to  see 
how  the  waves  like  mountains,  came  rolling  on,  threatening 
to  submerge  us,  how  they  then  suddenly  seized  us,  lifted  us 
high  in  air,  and  then  again  as  quickly  let  us  plunge  into  a 
deep  abyss!  Although  I had  become  somewhat  accustomed  to 
this  sight  by  the  previously  experienced  high  sea,  yet  every 
time  we  made  a plunge,  I felt  my  back  run  cold,  and  should 
have  thought  we  were  in  great  danger,  had  I not  read  the 
contrary  in  the  calm  face  of  the  captain.  He  gave  his  orders 
always  with  the  same  coolness.  But  it  was  nevertheless  fear- 
ful to  behold  how  the  seamen  clambered  to  the  top  of  the 
masts,  and  then  out  upon  the  yards  to  reef  the  sails.  Only 
those  who  have  grown  up  amid  such  perils  can  brave  un- 
moved the  wild  rage  of  the  elements.” 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60 


On  the  26  June,  we  arrived  off  Bornholm,  a Danish  island, 
on  which  we  could  perceive  two  small  towns,  several  villages, 
and  a carefully  cultivated  country.  “The  sight  of  the  green 
cornfields  which  I had  not  beheld  for  so  long  a time  was 
particularly  cheering  to  me.”  From  a small  neighbouring  is- 
land “some  peasants  put  off  to  us  in  a boat  with  some  fresh 
meat,  vegetables  and  milk.  I was  particularly  pleased  with 
the  latter,  for  I could  not  at  all  relish  the  black  coffee.” 

“On  one  or  two  evenings,  with  a clear  sky  and  calm 
weather,  we  had  a sight,  such  as  one  never  sees  in  the  same 
grandeur  upon  land,  namely,  the  sun  set.  It  is  impossible  to 
describe  the  splendour  of  the  ever  changing  colours,  with 
those  also  of  the  clouds  scattered  over  the  heavens,  and  which 
were  again  reflected  in  a sea  as  smooth  as  glass;  but  the 
impression  made  by  this  heavenly  sight  in  the  solemn  still- 
ness of  the  evening,  upon  the  whole  ship-company  assembled 
on  the  deck,  will  never  be  forgotten  by  me.  I saw  the  most 
callous  among  them  moved  by  it.” 

At  length  on  the  28  June,  after  a voyage  of  one  and 
twenty  days,  the  “Saturn”  cast  anchor  in  the  roads  of  Trave- 
miinde,  and  on  the  5.  July,  1803,  I was  once  more  in  my 
native  town  Brunswick,  which  after  my  long  absence  was  now 
doubly  dear  to  me.  We  arrived  at  2 o’clock  in  the  morning. 

“1  alighted  at  the  Petri  Gate,  crossed  the  Ocker  in  a 
boat,  and  hastened  to  my  grandmother’s  garden.  But 
arrived  there,  I found  both  the  house  and  garden  doors  locked, 
and  as  my  knocking  was  not  heard,  I clambered  over  the 
garden  wall,  and  laid  myself  down  on  the  ground  in  an  open 
summer  house  at  the  bottom  of  the  garden.  Fatigued  by  the 
journey  I immediately  fell  asleep,  and  notwithstanding  the 
hardness  of  my  couch,  would  probably  have  slept  on  for  a 
long  time,  had  not  my  aunts  in  their  morning  walk  in  the 
garden,  discovered  me  in  my  retreat.  Greatly  allarmed,  they 
turned  back,  and  told  my  grandmother  that  a strange  man 
was  lying  in  the  summerhouse.  Returning  all  three  together, 
they  had  courage  to  approach  nearer,  reoognised  me,  and  1 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


61 


was  now  ^wakened  with  joyous  exclamations,  embraces  and 
kisses.  For  some  time  I could  not  recollect  where  I was  ; at 
length  I recognised  my  dear  relations,  and  was  overjoyed  to 
find  myself  among  them  onoe  more,  and  in  the  home  of  my 
childhood.  They  had  been  very  anxions  about  me,  as  owing 
to  our  tediously  long  sea  passage  they  had  received  no  intelli- 
gence of  us  for  six  weeks. 

The  first  pleasing  news  that  1 hoard,  was,  that  the  cele- 
brated Rode  was  there,  and  would  shortly  play  at  Court.  I 
therefore  immediately  announced  my  return  to  the  Duke,  in 
order  to  be  permitted  to  attend  the  Court-concert. 

I immediately  closed  my  oft  cited  Diary,  with  the  wish 
that  “it  might  often  afford  me  a pleasing  remembrance  of  the 
agreable  journey.  1 was  received  by  my  Patron  with  the 
same  benevolent  kindness  as  formerly,  which  was  manifested 
also,  by  his  gift  of  the  remainder  of  the  sum  furnished  for 
my  travelling  expenses,  which  was  by  no  means  inconsiderable, 
and  which  upon  my  handing  in  the  account  and  the  balance, 
was  presented  to  me  by  the  Grand  Chamberlain.  For  the 
dedication  of  my  Concerto,  which  I had  handed  to  the  Duke 
on  my  first  interview,  I also  received  twenty  Friedrichsd’or.* 

I now  burned  with  the  desire,  to  appear  with  this  Con- 
certo before  the  Duke,  in  public,  as  a Violinist  and  Compo- 
ser; to  exhibit  proofs  of  my  industry,  and  the  progress  I 
had  made.  But  this  was  not  to  be  effected  so  readily,  for 
Rode  had  already  announced  a Concert  to  be  given  in  the 
Theatre.  The  idea  of  making  my  appearance  so  soon  after 
that  celebrated  Violinist  was  also  a source  of  some  anxiety 
to  me.  For  the  more  I heard  him  play,  the  more  was  I 
captivated  with  his  playing.  Yes!  I had  no  hesitation  to  plaoe 
Mode's  style  of  play  (then  still  reflecting  all  the  brilliancy 
of  that  of  his  great  master  Viotti,)  above  that  of  my  Ins- 
tructor Eck,  and  to  apply  myself  sedulously  to  acquire  it  as 
much  as  possible  by  a careful  practice  of  Mode's  compositions. 

* One  Fredericks  d’or  (single)  =16*  6d  English. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


62 


In  this  I succeeded  also,  by  no  means  ill,  and  up  to  the 
time  when  I had  by  degrees  formed  a style  of  playing  of  my 
own,  I had  become  the  most  faithful  imitator  of  Rode  among 
all  the  young  violinists  of  that  day.  I succeeded  more  espe- 
cially in  executing  in  his  style  the  eighth  Concerto,  the  three 
first  Quartetts,  and  the  world  famed  Variations  in  G-Major; 
in  these,  both  in  Brunswick,  and  afterwards  on  my  first  grand 
artistic  tour,  I achieved  great  success. 

Shortly  after  Rode's  departure,  the  day  I had  so  ard- 
ently wished  for  arrived,  on  which  in  a Concert  given  by  me 
at  the  Theatre,  I was  to  exhibit  the  first  proofs  of  the  art- 
istic skill  I had  acquired  on  my  travels.  Curiosity  had  as- 
sembled a numerous  audience.  From  the  ready  surety  with 
which  I could  play  not  only  my  own  Concerti,  but  the  other 
music  I had  practised  under  Eck’s  direction,  I might  have  been 
expected  to  feel  no  embarrassment  upon  my  appearance.  Never- 
theless, I could  not  wholly  overcome  it,  when  I thought,  that, 
but  shortly  before,  in  the  very  place  where  I stood,  so  great  a 
Violinist  had  played  before  the  same  audience.  But  I had  now 
to  put  to  shame  my  invidious  detractors,  who  on  my  setting  out 
upon  my  journey  had  loudly  asserted  that  the  Duke  would  again 
throw  away  his  money  upon  one  who  would  prove  incapable 
and  ungrateful.  I therefore  summoned  all  my  resolution,  and 
already  during  the  Tutti  of  my  Concerto,  I succeeded  in  ban- 
ishing from  my  mind  all  and  every  thing  around  me,  and 
gave  myself  up  to  my  play  with  my  whole  soul.  The  result, 
also,  was  a success  beyond  all  expectation;  for  already  after 
the  first  Solo,  a general  applause  broke  forth,  which  increased 
with  every  succeeding  one,  and  at  the  end  of  the  Concert 
seemed  as  though  it  would  never  cease.  The  Duke,  also,  who 
during  the  intervening  pause  sent  for  the  young  artiste  to  his 
box,  expressed  to  him  his  full  satisfaction.  That  day,  there- 
fore, is  still  borne  in  my  remembrance  as  one  of  the  happiest 
of  my  life. 

I was  now  appointed  First  Violin,  in  the  place  of  a re- 
cently deceased  “Kammermusicns“  and  received  the  additional 


Digitized  by  Google 


63 


salary  accruing  to  that  post,  of  200  thalers.  But  as  on  ac- 
count of  the  three  months  grace  allowed  to  his  widow,  this 
salary  could  not  immediately  commence,  I was  compensated 
by  another  present  of  twenty  Friedrichsd’or. 

With  my  salary  of  three  hundred  thalers,  and  my  ad- 
ditional evenings  I could  at  that  time  live  quite  respectably 
and  free  from  care.  I therefore,  again  took  my  brother 
Ferdinand  to  live  with  me,  and  devoted  myself  assiduously 
to  his  improvement.  As  1 had  not  yet  seen  my  parents  and 
brothers  and  sister,  I went  to  Seesen  to  fetch  him.  While 
there  I received  a visit  from  my  fellow  traveller  Leveque , who 
was  about  to  return  to  St.  Petersburgh.  During  the  eight 
days  we  were  together,  we  played  diligently,  and  my  parents 
and  musical  friends  of  the  little  town  were  especially  delighted 
with  the  performance  of  my  Duetts,  which  we  had  so  perfectly 
studied  during  the  sea  voyage. 

On  my  return  to  Brunswick,  I began  anew  my  labours 
in  composition.  I first  of  all  completed  a Violin- Concerto  in 
E-Minor,  which  I had  commenced  on  the  journey,  but  which  re- 
mained unpublished,  because  it  no  longer  pleased  me  after  I 
had  adopted  Rode’s  style  of  execution.  Nevertheless  I played 
it  several  times  with  great  applause  in  the  Winter-Concerts. 
At  that  lime  also,  at  the  wish  of  the  Violoncellist  Beneke , 
whom  I frequently  met  at  Quartett  parties,  I wrote  a Con- 
certante  for  Violin  and  Violoncello  with  orchestral  accompani- 
ment. Neither  was  this  work  ever  published,  and  not  even 
included  in  the  list  of  my  compositions,  as  at  the  time  I be- 
gan to  make  that,  I did  not  lay  my  hand  on  it,  and  indeed 
had  wholly  forgotten  it.  Nevertheless  there  must  be  some 
copy  of  it  in  existence,  for  I heard  it  once  in  1817  or  1818, 
at  a concert  in  Mayence  given  by  the  brothers  Gam , after- 
wards members  of  the  Royal  Orchestra  at  Berlin,  who  played  it 
without  at  the  same  time  acknowledging  it  as  my  composi- 
tion. It  is  true,  the  piece  of  music  seemed  known  to  me,  just 
as  though  I had  heard  it  before;  but  not  until  I had  asked 
my  neighbour  for  the  programme  of  the  concert,  and  seen  my 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64 


name  affixed  to  the  piece,  did  the  recollection  of  that  pro- 
duction of  my  youth  recur  to  my  mind.  I now  recollect 
nothing  more  of  it,  than  that  it  consisted  of  an  Adagio  and 
Rondo,  and  the  last  written  in  G/s  time.  But  I can  no 
longer  remember  the  key. 

The  practise  of  this  Concertante  with  Benelce  may  pro- 
bably have  given  rise  to  the  resolution  we  formed  to  make 
an  artistic  tour  together,  and  to  Paris;  where  I had  long 
desired  to  go.  The  permission  far  this  journey  was  readily 
obtained  through  the  favour  in  which  1 stood  with  the  Duke, 
and  so  we  set  out  upon  it  in  January,  1804,  with  the  most 
pleasing  anticipations. 

We  first  spent  some  few  days  with  my  parents  at  Seesen, 
from  whence  we  announced  our  coming  to  Gottingen,  to  give 
our  first  concert  there.  For  the  journey  thither,  we  hired  a 
carriage.  Shortly  before  my  leaving  Brunswick  I had  had  a 
ease  made  more  worthy  of  the  splendid  Violin  I had  brought 
from  Russia,  i.  e.  a very  elegant  one,  and  in  order  to  protect 
this  from  all  injury,  I had  packed  it  in  my  trunk  between 
my  linen  and  clothes.  I therefore  took  care  that  this,  which 
contained  my  whole  estate,  should  be  carefully  fastened  be- 
hind the  carriage  with  cords.  But,  notwithstanding,  I thought 
it  necessary  to  look  out  round  at  it,  frequently,  particularly 
as  the  driver  told  me  that  but  recently  between  Nordheim 
and  Gottingen,  several  trunks  had  been  cut  down  from  behind 
carriages.  As  the  carriage  had  no  window  at  the  back,  this 
continual  looking  out  behind  was  a very  troublesome  business, 
and  I was  therefore  very  glad,  when  towards  evening  we 
arrived  between  the  gardens  of  Gottingen,  and  I had  convin- 
ced myself  for  a last  time  that  the  trunk  was  still  in  its 
place.  Delighted,  that  I had  brought  it  so  far  in  safety,  I 
remarked  to  my  fellow-traveller:  my  first  care  shall  now 
be  to  procure  a good  strong  chain  and  padlock  for  the  better 
security  of  the  trunk. 

In  this  manner  we  arrived  at  the  town  gate,  just  as  they 
were  lighting  the  lamps.  The  carriage  drew  up  before  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


65 


guardhouse.  While  Beneke  gave  our  names  to  the  sergeant, 
I anxiously  asked  one  of  the  soldiers  who  stood  round  the 
carriage:  is  the  trunk  still  well  secured? 

uThere  is  no  trunk  there llfc  was  the  reply.  With  one 
bound  I was  out  of  the  carriage,  and  rushed  out  through  the 
gate  with  a drawn  hunting  knife.  Had  I with  more  reflec- 
tion listened  awhile,  I might  perhaps  have  been  fortunate  enough 
to  hear  and  overtake  the  thieves  running  off  by  some  side 
path.  But  in  my  blind  rage,  I had  far  overshot  the  place 
where  I had  last  seen  the  trunk,  and  only  discovered  my  over- 
haste when  I found  myself  in  the  open  field.  Inconsolable 
for  my  loss,  I turned  back.  While  my  fellow-traveller  looked 
for  the  Inn,  I hastened  to  the  Police  Office,  and  requested 
that  an  immediate  search  might  be  made  in  the  gardenhouses 
outside  the  gate.  With  astonishment  and  vexation  I was  in- 
formed that  the  jurisdiction  outside  the  gate  belonged  to 
Weende,  and  that  I must  address  my  request  there.  As 
Weende  was  half  a league  from  Gottingen,  I was  compelled 
to  abandon  for  that  evening  all  further  steps  for  the  reco- 
very of  my  things.  That  these  would  prove  fruitless  on  the 
following  morning,  I now  also  felt  assured;  and  I passed  a 
sleepless  night,  in  a state  of  mind  such  as  in  my  hitherto 
fortunate  career  had  been  wholly  unknown  to  me.  Had  I not 
have  lost  my  splendid  Guarneri-violin , the  exponent  of  all 
the  artistic  excellence  I had  till  then  attained,  I could 
have  lightly  borne  the  loss  of  the  rest.  A moderate  success 
during  the  tour  would  soon  replace  them.  But  in  this  man- 
ner, without  a violin,  I should  be  compelled  not  only  to  give 
up  the  journey,  but  in  a certain  degree  recommence  my  study 
anew  from  the  very  beginning. 

On  the  following  morning  the  Police  sent  to  inform  me 
that  an  empty  trunk  and  a violin-case  had  been  found  in 
the  fields  behind  the  gardens.  Full  of  joy  I hastened  thither, 
in  the  hope  that  the  thieves  might  have  left  the  violin  in 
the  case,  as  an  object  of  no  value  to  them,  and  as  likely  to 
lead  to  their  discovery.  But  unfortunately  it  did  not  prove 

8FOHB,  Autobiography.  L 5 


Digitized  by  Google 


66 


so.  The  bow  of  the  violin,  only,  a genuine  Tourte , secured 
in  the  lid  of  the  case,  had  remained  undiscovered;  everything 
else,  inclusive  also  of  a sum  in  gold  for  the  expenses  of  the 
journey,  had  been  carried  off.  The  Music  had  been  considered 
unworthy  of  the  thieves’  notice.  It  was  found  strewed  all 
over  the  field.  As  my  manuscripts  were  among  it,  of  which 
I had  no  copies,  I was  glad  to  have  recovered  these  at  least. 

Without  money,  without  clothes  and  linen,  I was  now 
first  of  all  obliged  to  procure  on  credit  what  was  most  neces- 
sary, before  I could  give  with  my  fellow-traveller  the  concert 
which  we  had  already  announced.  In  the  meantime,  I prac- 
tised diligently  upon  a very  good  violin  by  Stainer  which  I 
borrowed  of  a student  from  Hanover,  and  thus  prepared,  I 
made  my  first  appearance  out  of  Brunswick  as  an  artiste. 
The  concert  was  unusually  well  attended.  Perhaps  the  account 
of  my  loss  had  contributed  to  it.  The  Solo  performances  of 
the  two  artistes,  as  also  together,  in  my  Concertante,  were 
received  with  enthusiastic  applause. 

This  it  is  true  was  very  encouraging  for  a further  pro- 
secution of  the  journey;  but  anxiously  concerned  for  my  re- 
putation, I could  not  make  up  my  mind  to  appear  publicly, 
before  I had  procured  a good  violin  of  my  own,  and  had 
carefully  practised  myself  upon  it. 

As  Beneke  was  unwilling  to  proceed  further  on  the  journey 
without  me,  we  therefore  returned  to  Brunswick.  The  intelli- 
gence of  my  loss  had  already  become  generally  known  there. 
The  Duke,  also,  had  heard  of  it,  and  in  order  to  facilitate 
my  purchase  of  a new  instrument  sent  me  again  a handsome 
present.  With  the  aid  of  that,  I purchased  from  a Herr  von 
Hantelmann,  a distinguished  amateur,  the  best  violin  in  Bruns- 
wick at  that  time,  but  I soon  felt,  that  it  could  not  fully 
replace  the  one  which  I had  lost. 

In  order  to  prepare  myself  well  for  a future  journey,  I 
again  applied  myself  diligently  to  composition.  Thus  I wrote 
the  Concerto  in  D-Minor  which  was  published  by  Kuhnel  of 
Leipsic  as  (Op.  2),  a Potpourri  upon  chosen  themes  (publish- 


Digitized  by  Google 


67 


ed  also  by  the  same,  as  Op.  5.)  and  a Concerto  in  A-Major 
which  has  remained  in  manuscript.  In  these,  as  also,  in  some 
subsequent  compositions,  Mode's  style  is  predominant,  from 
which  at  a later  period  only,  my  own  style  and  peculiar  mode 
of  execution  develloped  themselves. 

In  this  manner  passed  the  summer  of  1804.  In  the 
autumn,  fully  prepared  for  a fresh  Musical  tour,  I felt  dis- 
posed to  repair  first  to  the  German  Capitals.  I much  desired 
also  to  appear  once  in  Leipsic,  which  through  the  excellently 
conducted  Musical  Journal  of  Mochlitz  had  risen  to  be  the 
Centre  of  Musical  criticism.  I therefore  set  out  upon  my 
second  Artistic  tour  on  the  18.  October,  through  Leipsic  and 
Dresden,  to  Berlin. 

Of  this  journey  also,  a Diary  exists,  but  which  extends 
only  to  the  9.  December,  and  then  suddenly  breaks  off.  The 
cause  of  this  will  be  related  hereafter. 

I made  my  first  stay  at  Halberstadt,  where  I gave  a 
public  Concert,  and  on  the  following  day  played  at  the  house 
of  Count  Wemig erode.  Among  the  Musical  amateurs  who 
received  me  in  a particularly  kind  manner  I must  mention 
the  Vicar  of  the  Cathedral,  Augustin,  and  the  Auditor  Ziegler . 
With  the  latter,  who  was  an  accomplished  connoisseur  of 
Music  and  an  excellent  pianist,  I remained  on  terms  of  in- 
timacy until  his  death.  I received  also  great  attention  and 
assistance  in  getting  up  my  Concert,  from  the  there  resident 
Musicians,  the  brother  Organists  Muller  and  Holzmarker,  the 
Violinist  Gloekner,  with  whom  I played  my  Duetts,  the  Bass- 
onist  Barnbech,  and  Close , the  Secretary  and  Musical  Director 
of  Count  Wemigerode.  I therefore  passed  many  pleasant 
days  in  Halberstadt. 

One  afternoon,  “I  took  a walk  with  Herr  Holzmarker 
and  one  of  his  friends  outside  the  gate  of  the  town.  We 
visited  the  Kins,  a mountain  on  the  top  of  which  rise  several 
isolated  steep  rocks,  the  inside  of  which  is  excavated,  and 
which  according  to  the  legend  was  the  work  of  robbers,  who 
in  former  times  took  up  their  abode  there.  I could  not 

6* 


Digitized  by  Google 


68 


resist  the  desire  to  ascend  one  of  these  rocks,  hazardous  as 
was  the  attempt,  and  earnestly  as  my  companions  dissuaded 
me  from  it.  I succeeded  in  reaching  the  summit  without  acci- 
dent, and  besides  the  pleasure  I felt  at  having  effected  what 
few  had  the  courage  to  attempt,  I had  that  of  an  extensive 
and  magnificent  view.  So  far  all  went  well.  But  when  at 
length  I wished  to  descend,  and  looked  down  the  declivity, 
a sudden  giddiness  overcame  me,  and  I was  instantly  obliged 
to  sit  down  to  save  myself  from  falling  over  the  precipice. 
Full  ten  minutes  elapsed  before  I could  summon  the  necessary 
composure  to  make  the  descent,  and  it  is  doubtful  whether  I 
should  have  effected  it  in  safety,  if  the  gentlemen  below  had 
not  shouted  to  me,  where  to  set  my  feet,  which  I could  not 
see  to  do,  having  my  face  turned  towards  the  rock.  Tremb- 
ling from  the  exertion  and  the  convulsive  clinging  to  the 
rock,  as  well  as  thoroughly  ashamed  at  having  disregarded 
the  warning  of  the  two  gentlemen,  I reached  them  at  length, 
and  returned  with  them  to  the  town  not  a . little  glad  to 
have  escasped  uninjured  from  60  eminent  a danger.” 

On  the  22.  October,  I gave  my  Concert.  At  the  rehear- 
sal, my  Concerto  in  D- Minor  had  made  a great  sensation. 

“Messrs.  Ziegler , Muller  and  others  declared  to  my  great 
satisfaction,  that  they  had  never  heard  a finer  Violin  Concerto.” 

“The  Concert  itself  began  at  five  o’clock.  The  Theatre 
was  very  empty,  but  the  audience  was  composed  of  persons 
possessed  of  a high  intelligence  of  Art,  as  I could  readily  see 
by  the  deep  silence  and  sympathy  with  which  my  play  was 
listened  to.”  Among  other  things,  the  following  were  executed  : 
A Symphony  by  Haydn  ; my  Concerto  in  D-Minor;  a Concerto 
inD-Major  by  Kreutzer ; a Polonaise  by  Bode  from  theQuar- 
tett  in  Es-Major.  After  the  Concert,  Count  Wemigerode  ex- 
pressed his  satisfaction  to  me,  and  invited  me  to  a Concert  at 
his  house  on  the  following  day,  in  which  the  third  Count 
assisted  as  Clarionetist  in  the  orchestra.  I played  Mode's 
Concerto  in  A-Major  and  his  Quartett  in  Es-Major. 

“After  the  Concert  was  over,  the  company  surrounded 


Digitized  by 


Google 


me  and  overwhelmed  me  with  expressions  of  praise.  I was 
obliged  to  relate  to  the  ladies  a great  deal  about  St.  Pe- 
tersburgh.” 

In  Magdeburg,  as  artiste  I also  met  with  the  most  friendly 
reception.  Captain  von  Comber g,  Major  von  Witzleben, 
Regimental  Quartermaster  Tiirpen , and  Privy  Counsellor 
Schafer,  to  whom  I was  recommended,  exerted  themselves  to 
the  utmost,  both  to  procure  a numerous  audience  for  me, 
and  to  make  my  stay  as  agreeable  as  possible.  Already  at 
my  first  Concert  on  the  3.  November,  the  audience  was  very 
numerous.  I played  my  D -Minor- Concerto,  the  A-Minor- Con- 
certo of  Rode,  and  the  G-Major-variations. 

“I  succeeded  right  well  in  all,  and  the  people  seemed 
to  be  quite  carried  away  by  my  play.” 

At  this  time  I occupied  myself  with  the  remodelling  of 
my  last  Concerto  but  one,  in  £ -Minor.  I wrote  an  entirely  new 
Adagio  for  it. 

At  a Musical  party  at  the  house  of  the  Secretary  to  the 
Board  of  Finance , Feska,  I heard  his  son  play  in  a Quartett 
of  his  own  composition. 

“The  Quartett,”  says  the  Diary,  “is  very  well  worked 
out  and  evinces  great  talent.  As  a Player  he  pleased  me 
less.  He  is  certainly  not  wanting  in  mechanical  skill,  but  in 
a finished  and  well  regulated  handling  of  the  bow,  and  there- 
fore in  a good  tone,  and  in  clearness  of  the  passages. 
Neither  was  his  intonation  always  pure.  Were  he  to  study 
under  a good  master,  he  might  become  something  great.” 

I went  frequently  to  parties  at  the  houses  of  the  Mer- 
chants Hildebrandt  and  Schmager,  of  the  Criminal-Counsellor 
Sukrow,  and  the  Privy  Counsellor  Schafer , and  “everywhere 
pleased  much.” 

“I  was  also  invited  by  Tiirpen  to  an  interesting  Musical 
Soiree.  I found  assembled  there  a small  but  a very  select 
company  of  the  most  zealous  friends  of  Music  in  Magdeburg. 
I played  Quartetts  by  Haydn , Beethoven , Mozart , and  in 
conclusion  the  Es-Major-Quartett  of  Rode . I was  accompa- 


Digitized  by  Google 


70 


nfed  very  well  in  all  of  them,  so  I that  could  give  myself 
entirely  up  to  my  feelings.  The  company  seemed  enchanted. 
Herr  Turpen  affirmed  that  I understood  better  than  any  one 
how  to  render  the  peculiar  style  of  each  Composer.  As  finale, 
our  host  played  a Trio  by  Moeart , right  well,  on  a very  good 
pianoforte  by  Blum  of  Brunswick.  But  he  has  the  bad  habit 
of  drawing  out  the  “Canto”  too  much,  by  which  he  rather 
injures  the  expression  than  improves  it.” 

On  the  10.  November,  I gave  my  second  Concert,  which 
was  not  quite  so  numerously  attended  as  the  first,  and  in 
which  I executed  a Symphony  by  Haydn  and  niy  Violin-Con- 
certo in  E-Minor,  I also  played  a Concertante  by  Eck,  with 
FesJca.  The  remodelled  E-Minor-Concerto  went  well.  The  new 
Adagio  appeared  to  please  very  much. 

Of  the  other  circumstances  that  occurred  while  I was  in 
Magdeburg,  I will  only  mention  a theatrical  representation, 
the  Author  of  the  Piece  having  made  himself  a name  in  the 
theatrical  world  by  his  piquante  notice  “Musical  Ollapodrida 
from  Paris.”  It  was  the  first  representation  of  “The  Female 
Aballino”  by  Sievers. 

“Never  have  I read  or  seen  enacted  a more  wretched 
piece.  It  is  a sorry  imitation  of  the  well  known  “Great  Ban- 
dit,” but  has  neither  the  exciting  scenes  nor  the  clever  dia- 
logue which  made  that  piece  a favorite  of  the  public.  The 
chief  personage  Rosa  Salviatti,  who  in  order  to  protect  her 
lover  from  a conspiracy  of  his  uncle’s,  resorts  to  the  most 
romantic  and  absurd  means,  explains  the  reasons  of  her 
conduct  in  a speech  that  lasts  at  least  a quarter  of  an 
hour.  The  public,  which  had  already  previously  manifested 
signs  of  impatience,  became  so  noisy  during  this  discourse, 
that  the  play  could  scarcely  be  concluded.  At  length  when 
the  curtain  fell,  a general  hissing  and  whistling  broke  forth. 
The  unfortunate  Author,  unappreciated  as  he  considered  he 
had  been  in  Brunswick,  and  who  thought  to  achieve  a triumph 
here,  is  said  to  have  been  present  in  the  Theatre,  but  made 
a hasty  retreat  before  the  end  of  the  piece.” 


Digitized  by  Google 


71 


Respecting  my  stay  in  Halle,  whither  I next  went,  the 
Diary  gives  but  very  scanty  information.  The  more  I was 
drawn  into  society  by  an  increased  circle  of  acquaintances, 
the  less  pleasure  I took  as  it  would  appear,  in  the  previous 
frequent  freedom  of  style  in  my  remarks  upon  it.  I may  also 
not  have  had  the  time,  as  I was  very  careful  in  preparing 
myself  for  every  performance  whether  public  or  private,  and 
was  constantly  engaged  in  composing. 

My  two  Concerts  on  the  21.  and  23.  November,  were  very 
well  attended.  Besides  my  own  works,  I played  a Concerto 
of  R ode,  A-Minor  and  the  G-Major  variations. 

“My  play  met  with  an  enthusiastic  reception.”  The  per- 
sons, who  took  a particular  interest  in  me,  and  whom  I have 
to  thank  for  many  pleasant  hours,  were  the  Family  Garri- 
gues , consisting  of  the'  father,  mother,  daughter  and  two 
sons,  all  of  them  very  charming,  polite  people;  Lafontaine 
and  his  fascinating  adopted  daughter;  Chodomecki,  Niemeier 
and  Loder.  Among  the  students  I made  the  acquaintance  of 
some  clever  amateurs.  One  Herr  Schneider  played  well  on 
the  piano;  another,  Herr  Muller  right  well  on  the  violin. 
Herr  Grundler , from  Trebnitz  near  Breslau,  immediately  took 
instruction  from  me  on  the  violin. 

I yet  remember  also  the  following  incident:  Among 
those  who  were  also  of  assistance  to  me  in  the  arrangements 
for  my  Concert  was  the  celebrated  Counterpointist  Turk . 
He  directed  the  Academical  Concerts,  one  of  which  took  place 
during  my  stay  in  Halle.  The  Opera  '‘'Titue”  was  given  as 
Concert-Music.  The  public  had  been  already  assembled  for 
the  space  of  half  an  hour;  the  Orchestra  had  finished  tuning 
and  awaited  the  signal  to  begin.  Among  the  Student  part 
of  the  audience,  great  dissatisfaction  had  begun  to  shew  it- 
self at  the  delay  in  the  appearance  of  the  Singer;  but  when 
he  at  length  made  his  appearance,  in  very  unseemly  dress  for 
the  occasion,  in  an  overcoat  and  with  dirty  boots,  the  gene- 
ral disapprobation  was  shewn  by  hissing  and  a shuffling  of 
the  feet.  The  Singer,  into  whose  hands  the  impatient  Direc- 


Digitized  by  Google 


72 


tor  had  already  thrust  the  notes,  stepped  forward  and  said 
with  a contemptuous  look:  “If  I do  not  please  you  as  I am, 
why  then  I can  go  away  again  I”  Hereupon  he  threw  the 
notes  at  the  feet  of  the  Director  and  rushed  out  of  the  place. 
They  ran  after  him  to  bring  him  back;  but  all  in  vainl  I 
now  expected  that  the  Concert  would  be  postponed,  or  at  least 
that  all  those  “Numbers”  in  which  Titus  has  to  sing,  would  be 
omitted.  Nothing  of  the  kind!  The  conscientious  Director 
did  not  allow  his  auditory  to  go  short  of  a single  bar  of  the 
music;  he  knew  how  to  help  himself! 

He  played  upon  his  Grand-Piano*the  whole  Part  of 
Titus,  Recitative,  Airs,  and  Concerted-pieces  from 
the  first  note  to  the  last!  I was  astounded,  and  knew 
not  whether  to  be  vexed,  or  to  laugh  at  the  singularly  naive 
expedient.  But  it  was  made  quite  clear  to  me  that  evening, 
that  a man  may  be  a learned  Counterpointist  and  yet  not 
possess  an  atom  of  good  taste  1 

After  my  arrival  in  Leipsic  on  29.  November,  the  Diary 
gives  two  short  notices  and  then  remains  wholly  silent.  The 
first  concerns  a representation  of  the  Opera  by  Paer : “Die 
Wegelagerer”  (The  Way -layer);  the  second  relates  to  a visit 
to  the  Drapers- Hall- Concerts. 

“These  Concerts14,  it  says,  “are  got  up  by  a Society  of 
shopkeepers.  But  they  are  not  Amateur  - concerts ; for  the 
orchestra  is  alone  composed  of  professional  musicians,  and  is 
both  numerous  and  excellent.  For  the  Vocal  part  a foreign 
female  singer  is  always  engaged,  as  the  Director  of  the  Theatre 
does  not  allow  his  singers  to  appear  in  concerts.  This  year 
it  is  a Signora  Alberghi  from  Dresden,  the  daughter  of  a 
Church-singer  of  that  City.  She  is  still  very  young,  but  has 
already  a very  good  method,  and  a clear,  melodious  voice. 
She  sang  two  arias  with  great  applause.  Besides  that,  I 
heard  the  Concert  Master  of  the  society,  Herr  Campagnoli, 
play  a Concerto  by  Kreuteer , extremely  well.  His  method,  it 
is  true,  is  of  the  old  school;  but  his  play  is  pure  and 
finished.  The  Room  in  which  these  Concerts  are  given  is 


Digitized  by  foozle 


73 


exceedingly  handsome,  and  particularly  favorable  to  the  effect 
of  the  music.” 

I had  many  difficulties  to  overcome  for  the  arrangements 
of  my  concert.  Engrossed  in  the  business  pursuits  of  this 
commercial  city,  people  did  not  come  forward  to  assist  me 
with  the  readiness  I had  been  hitherto  accustomed  to  meet, 
and  I had  much  to  do  before  every  obstacle  was  overcome. 
It  annoyed  me  also  that  the  wealthy  merchants  to  whom  I 
was  recommended  appeared  as  yet  to  know  nothing  of  my 
artistic  reputation,  and  that  though  politely,  they  received  me 
coldly.  I was  therefore  exceedingly  desirous  to  be  invited  to 
some  musical  party,  in  order  to  attract  notice  to  my  capa- 
bilities. This  wish  was  gratified;  I received  an  invitation  to  a 
large  evening  party,  with  the  request  to  perform  something. 
I selected  for  the  occasion,  one  of  the  finest  of  Beethoven's 
six  new  Quartetts,  with  my  performance  of  which  I had  so  fre- 
quently charmed  my  audience  in  Brunswick.  But  already 
after  a few  bars,  I remarked  that  those  who  accompanied  me 
were  as  yet  unacquainted  with  this  music,  and  therefore 
unable  to  enter  into  the  spirit  of  it.  If  this  already  annoyed 
me,  my  dissatisfaction  was  much  more  increased  when  I 
remarked  that  the  company  soon  paid  no  more  attention  to 
my  play.  For  by  degrees,  a conversation  began,  that  soon 
became  so  general  and  so  loud  that  it  almost  overpowered 
the  music.  I therefore  rose  up  in  the  midst  of  my  playing, 
before  even  the  first  Theme  was  concluded,  and' without  uttering 
a word,  hastened  to  replace  my  violin  in  its  case.  This 
excited  a great  sensation  among  the  company,  and  the  master 
of  the  house  advanced  towards  me  with  an  enquiring  look. 
I went  forward  to  meet  him,  and  said  aloud,  so  as  to  be  heard 
by  the  company:  “I  have  hitherto  been  accustomed  to  find 
my  play  listened  to  with  attention.  As  that  has  not  been 
so  here,  I of  course  thought  the  company  would  prefer  that 
I discontinued.”  The  Master  of  the  house  knew  not  what 
reply  to  make,  and  retired  much  embarrassed.  But  when,  after 
having  apologised  to  the  Musicians  for  breaking  off  so  suddenly, 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


74 


I shewed  the  intention  to  take  my  leave  of  the  company,  the 
host  returned  and  said  in  a friendly  tone:  “If  you  could  be 
persuaded  to  play  something  else  for  the  company  more 
adapted  to  their  taste  and  capacity  you  will  find  a very 
attentive  and  grateful  auditory.”  I,  who  had  already  clearly 
comprehended,  that  I was  most  to  blame  for  what  had  occur- 
red, from  my  misapprehension  in  the  choice  of  music  for  such 
an  auditory,  was  glad  of  the  opportunity  to  conciliate  matters. 
I therefore  willingly  resumed  my  violin  and  played  Rode’s 
Quartett  in  Es,  which  the  Musicians  knew  and  therefore  well 
accompanied.  A breathless  silence  now  reigned,  and  the  inter- 
est shewn  in  my  play  increased  with  every  passage.  On  the 
conclusion  of  the  Quartett  so  many  flattering  things  were 
said  to  me  of  my  play,  that  I was  induced  now  to  parade 
my  hobby-horse  the  G-Major-Variations  of  Rode . With  this  I 
so  enchanted  the  company  that  I became  the  object  of  the 
most  flattering  attention  for  the  remainder  of  the  evening. 

This  incident  became  the  subject  of  conversation  for  many 
days,  and  was  probably  the  cause,  that  the  musical-amateurs 
whose  attention  had  been  thereby  directed  to  me,  came  even 
to  the  rehearsal  of  my  Concert  in  considerable  number. 
At  this,  I succeeded  so  well  in  winning  them  over  to  me,  by 
the  execution  of  my  D-Minor-Concerto,  that  before  the  evening 
on  which  my  Concert  was  to  take  place  they  had  spread  a 
favourable  account  of  my  performances  throughout  the  City, 
and  thereby  a more  numerous  audience  was  attracted 
than  I had  dared  to  hope.  The  elite  of  the  musical  ama- 
teurs of  Leipsic  and  a very  sympathetic  public  were  present. 
I now  succeeded  also  in  awakening  such  an  enthusiasm  in  my 
auditory,  that  at  the  conclusion  of  the  concert  I was  vehe- 
mently solicited  to  give  a second.  This  took  place  a week 
later,  and  was  one  of  the  most  numerously  attended  that  had 
ever  been  given  by  a foreign  artiste  in  Leipsic.  In  the  mean- 
while, I was  frequently  invited  to  Quartett  parties,  at  which, 
after  I had  previously  practised  them  with  those  who  were 
to  accompany  me,  I obtained  more  particularly  a hearing  for 


Digitized  by  Google 


75 


my  favorites  the  six  first  of  Beethoven's  Quartetts.  I was  the 
first,  who  played  them  in  Leipsic,  and  I succeeded  in  obtain- 
ing a full  appreciation  of  their  excellence  by  my  style  of 
execution.  At  these  Quartett  parties  I also  first  made  the 
acquaintance  of  the  Editor  of  the  Musical-Journal,  Councellor 
Rochliiz , and  from  that  time  till  his  death  maintained  the 
most  friendly  relations  with  him.  Roehlitz  wrote  a notice  of 
my  concert  in  his  paper. 

As  that  Notice  first  established  my  reputation  in  Ger- 
many, and  had  an  influence  upon  my  career  in  life,  it  may 
serve  as  apology  for  my  verbal  citation  of  it  in  this  place: 

“On  the  10.  December,  1804,  Herr  Spohr  gave  a Concert 
in  Leipsic,  and  at  the  solicitation  of  many,  a second,  on  the. 
17.  in  both  of  which  he  afforded  us  a treat  such  as,  so  far 
as  we  can  remember,  no  Violinist  with  the  exception  of  Rode  ever 
gave  us.  Herr  Spohr  may  without  doubt  take  rank  among  the 
most  eminent  violinists  of  the  present  day,  and  one  would  be 
astonished  at  his  powers,  more  especially  when  his  youth  is 
considered,  were  it  possible  to  pass  from  a sense  of  real  de- 
light to  cold  astonishment.  He  gave  os  a grand  Concerto  of 
bis  own  composition  (D-Minor),  which  was  called  for  a second 
time,  and  another,  also  from  his  own  pen  (E-Minor).  His  Con- 
cert!, rank  with  the  finest  existing,  and  in  particular,  we 
know  of  no  Violin  Concerto,  which  can  take  precedence  of 
that  in  D-Minor,  whether  as  regards  conception,  soul  and  charm, 
or  also,  in  respect  of  precision  and  firmness.  His  peculiarity 
inclines  mostly  to  the  grand  and  to  a soft  dreamy  melan- 
choly. And  so  it  is  with  his  brilliant  play.  Herr  Spohr  can 
execute  everything;  but  he  charms  most  by  the  former.  As 
regards,  in  the  first  place,  correctness  of  play  in  the  broad- 
est sense,  it  is  here,  as  may  be  presupposed,  as  sure  funda- 
mental principle;  a perfect  purety,  surety  and  precision,  the 
most  remarkable  execution ; every  manner  of  bow-ing , every 
variety  of  violin-tone,  the  most  unembarrassed  ease  in  the 
management  of  all  these,  even  in  the  most  difficult  passages; 
these  constitute  him  one  of  the  most  accomplished  virtuosi. 


Digitized  by  Google 


76 


But  the  soul  which  he  breathes  into  his  play,  the  flights  of 
fancy,  the  fire,  the  tenderness,  the  intensity  of  feeling,  the 
fine  taste,  and  lastly  his  insight  into  the  spirit  of  the  most 
different  Compositions,  and  his  art  of  rendering  each  in  its 
own  peculiar  spirit  make  him  a real  Artiste.  This  last 
faculty  we  have  never  seen  possessed  in  so  remarkable  a 
degree  as  by  Herr  Spohr , and  more  especially  in  his  Quartett- 
playing.  It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that  he  should  please 
everywhere,  'and  scarcely  leaves  any  other  sentiment  behind, 
than  the  wish  to  detain  and  to  hear  him  always.” 

I felt  exceedingly  happy  that  moment!  But  it  was  not 
alone  the  recognition  of  my  merits  as  an  artiste  that  infused 
a new  life  into  my  whole  being : it  was  another,  a more  tender 
feeling.  I loved  and  was  beloved. 

The  day  after  I saw  and  heard  Rosa  Alberghi  for  the  first 
time  at  the  Draper’s  Hall  Concert,  I paid  her  a visit,  to 
invite  her  to  take  part  at  my  concert.  Both  mother  and 
daughter  received  me  in  a very  friendly  manner.  The  former, 
although  a resident,  in  Germany  for  many  years,  had  not  ac- 
quired one  word  of  our  language.  As  she  also  shook  her 
head  on  my  addressing  her  in  French,  I was  obliged  to  make 
my  wishes  known  to  the  daughter,  who,  educated  in  Dresden, 
spoke  German  fluently.  She  very  willingly  assented  to  my 
request,  and  forthwith  chatted  with  me  a child-like  inge- 
nousness,  as  though  we  had  long  known  each  other.  On  my 
taking  leave,  Rosa  asked  me  to  come  again  soon.  I had 
already  gazed  too  deeply  into  her  brilliant  dark  eyes,  to 
let  her  wait  long  for  me.  And  as  the  mother  soon  made 
me  cordially  welcome,  I passed  all  my  hours  of  leisure 
at  their  house.  I accompanied  Rosa  in  her  singing  practice 
on  the  piano,  to  the  best  of  my  ability;  assisted  her  in  the 
study  of  the  Music  sent  to  her  by  the  Directors  of  the  Con- 
certs, and  embellished  her  Arias  with  new  ornaments,  at  which 
she  always  evinced  a really  child-like  pleasure.  In  this 
manner,  without  our  perceiving  it,  our  relations  became  con- 
stantly more  tender.  The  notes  in  my  Diary  on  this  subject 


Digitized  by 


Google 


77 


had  however  come  to  a stop,  nor  were  they  afterwards  re- 
sumed. Rosa  now  sang  in  my  second  Concert  ? and  as  her 
engagement  in  Leipsic  was  drawing  to  a close,  and  that  she  was 
about  to  return  to  Dresden,  she  offered  also  to  sing  in  my 
concerts  there. 

I now  therefore  ? left  for  Dresden,  furnished  with  high 
recommendations.  A letter  from  Rosa  introduced  me  to  her 
father,  who  received  me  in  the  most  friendly  manner.  He,  with 
some  members  of  the  Dresden  Royal  Orchestra,  namely  the 
brothers  Rothe  assisted  me  in  the  arrangements  for  my  con- 
cert, and  thereby  made  an  always  unpleasant  business  much 
lighter  for  me. 

Rosa  returned  to  Dresden  a few  days  before  the  concert, 
and  sang  in  it  with  her  father.  The  success  which  my  play 
and  compositions  met  with,  was  even  more  brilliant  than  in 
Leipsic.  As  there,  also,  I was  invited  on  all  sides  to  give  a 
second  concert.  While  I was  making  arrangements  for  this, 
I was  advised  to  announce  myself  also  at  Court,  as  from  the 
sensation  which  my  Play  had  made,  there  could  be  no  doubt 
of  a favourable  result. 

But,  when  I was  informed,  that  the  Court  - Concerts 
took  place  during  Dinner  and  that  no  exception  to  the  rule 
was  made  in  favour  of  foreign  artistes,  my  youthful  Artistic 
pride  kindled  with  indignation  at  the  idea  that  my  Play 
would  be  accompanied  by  the  clatter  of  plates;  so  that  I 
immediately  declined  the  honour,  of  playing  at  Court. 

My  second  Concert  was  extremely  well  attended,  and 
the  applause  almost  greater  than  at  the  first. 

I now  thought  of  my  departure  for  Berlin,  but  could  not 
make  up  my  mind  to  it;  for  the  parting  from  my  beloved 
Rosa  seemed  too  painful  to  .think  of.  When,  on  a sudden, 
her  father  surprised  me  with  a proposal  which  still  further 
delayed  the  dreaded  parting.  He  said,  that  he  had  long 
wished  his  daughter  should  appear  in  Berlin,  and  if  I had  no 
objection  to  give  some  concerts  there  together  with  her,  as 


Digitized  by  Google 


78 


he  was  himself  unable  to  obtain  leave  of  absence,  his  wife 
should  accompany  her  on  the  journey. 

To  this  proposal  with  joy  I acceded  and  immediately 
began  to  make  every  preparation  for  our  departure.  As 
the  journey  by  Coach,  was  considered  too  fatiguing  for  the 
ladies , we  hired  a carriage  together.  * I sat  opposite  to  my 
beloved  one,  and  complained  neither  of  the  slowness  of  our 
progress  nor  the  length  of  the  journey.  Arrived  in  Berlin,  we 
found  apartments  all  ready  for  us  in  the  same  house,  which 
my  former  Instructor  Kunisch,  now  a member  of  the  Berlin 
Royal  Orchester,  had  provided  for  us  upon  receipt  of  a letter 
from  me  announcing  our  coming.  The  latter,  not  a little 
proud  to  introduce  the  young  Artiste  as  his  former  Pupil, 
procured  for  me  the  acquaintance  of  the  most  distinguished 
artistes  of  Berlin,  and  was  also  of  great  assistance  to  me  in 
making  arrangements  for  a concert,  which  nevertheless  owing 
to  the  great  number  of  persons  then  giving  concerts,  was 
obliged  to  be  postponed  for  some  time. 

Meanwhile  I delivered  my  letters  of  recommendation,  and 
thereupon  was  invited  to  some  Music  parties.  I first  played 
at  Prince  RadzimlVs , himself  well  known  as  a distinguished 
Violoncellist,  and  talented  Composer.  I there  met  Bernhard 
Romberg , Moser , Seidler , Semmler,  and  other  distinguished 
artistes.  Romberg,  then  in  the  zenith  of  his  fame  as  a Vir- 
tuoso, played  one  of  his  Quartetts  with  Violoncello  obligato. 
I had  never  yet  heard  him,  and  I was  charmed  with  his  play. 
Being  now  solicited  to  play  something  myself,  I thought  that 
to  such  Artistes  and  Connoisseurs  I could  offer  nothing  more 
worthy  than  my  favorite  Quartetts  of  Beethoven . But  again 
I soon  remarked  that,  as  at  Leipsic,  I had  committed  an 
error;  for  the  musicians  of  Berlin  knew  as  little  of  those 
Quartetts  as  the  Leipsickers,  and  therefore  could  neither  play 
now  appreciate  them.  When  I had  finished,  they  praised  my 
play,  it  is  true,  but  spoke  very  disparagingly  of  what  I had 
performed.  Romberg,  even,  said  very  bluntly:  “But  dear 
Spohr , how  can  you  play  such  stuff  as  that?”  I was  now 


Digitized  by 


Google 


79 


quite  doubtful  of  my  own  taste,  when  I heard  one  of  the  most 
famous  artistes  of  the  day  express  such  an  opinion  of  my  fa- 
vorites. Later  in  the  evening  when  again  asked  to  play,  I 
selected  as  I had  done  in  Leipsic,  Mode's  Es-Major-Quartett, 
and  was  gratified  by  a similar  favourable  result  in  this  instance. 

The  second  Music- party,  to  which  also  my  fellow-travel- 
lers were  invited,  was  at  Prince  Louis  Ferdinand’s  of  Prussia. 
We  drove  there  together,  and  were  received  by  the  host  in 
the  most  courteous  manner.  We  there  found  a brilliant  circle 
of  decorated  gentlemen  and  fashionably  dressed  ladies,  as  also 
the  principal  artistes  of  Berlin.  I met  there,  also,  a former 
acquaintance  of  Hamburgh,  the  celebrated  Pianist- Virtuoso  and 
Composer  Dussek , who  was  now  Instructor  to  the  Prince,  and 
resided  in  his  house.  The  music  commenced  with  a Piano- 
Quartett,  which  was  executed  by  him  with  real  artistic  brilliancy. 
It  was  now  my  turn.  Made  wise  by  my  recent  experience, 
I only  selected  such  compositions,  as  I could  shine  in  as  Vio- 
linist, namely:  a Quartett,  and  the  G-Major- Variations  of 
Rode.  My  play  met  with  the  most  enthusiastic  applause,  and 
Dussek  in  particular,  seemed  delighted  with  it.  My  loved  Rosa , 
also  won  general  admiration  by  her  execution  of  an  aria,  in 
which  she  was  accompanied  by  Dussek  on  the  piano. 

After  the  conclusion  of  the  music,  the  Prince  offered  his 
arm  to  one  of  the  Ladies  present,  and  led  the  company  who 
at  a sign  from  him  had  done  the  same,  to  the  dining  room, 
where  a splendid  supper  had  been  laid  out.  Each  gentleman 
without  ceremony  took  his  place  by  the  side  of  his  lady;  and 
I by  the  side  of  my  dear  fellow-traveller.  At  first  the  con- 
versation though  free  and  unembarrassed  was  yet  marked 
with  decorum.  But  when  the  champagne  began  to  circulate, 
many  things  were  heard  not  suited  for  the  chaste  ears  of  an 
innocent  girl.  As  soon  therefore  as  my  observation  had  led 
me  to  infer  that  the  supposed  distinguished  ladies  did  not 
belong  to  the  Court  as  I had  believed,  but  more  probably  to 
the  Ballet,  I began  to  think  of  withdrawing  unperceived  from 
the  company,  with  my  fellow-traveller.  I succeeded  also, 


Digitized  by  Google 


80 


without  being  remarked  or  prevented,  in  making  good  our  retreat; 
and  reaching  my  carriage,  I returned  with  Rosa  to  her  ex- 
pecting mother.  The  next  day  I was  told  that  the  Prince’s 
Music-parties  generally  ended  in  similar  orgies. 

I still  remember  an  other  Music-party  — it  was  at  the 
house  of  the  Banker  Beer  — where  I heard  for  the  first  time, 
the  now  so  celebrated  Meyerbeer , play  in  his  paternal  house, 
then  but  a boy  of  thirteen  years  of  age.  The  talented  lad 
already  then  excited  so  much  attention  by  his  accomplished 
execution  on  the  piano-forte,  that  his  relatives  and  admirers 
regarded  him  with  the  greatest  pride.  It  is  related,  that,  one 
of  these  on  returning  from  a Lecture  on  popular  Astronomy 
exclaimed  full  of  joy  to  the  boy’s  parents  “Only  think  1 our 
Beer  has  been  already  placed  among  the  Constellations!  The 
Professor  shewed  us  a constellation,  which  in  honour  of  him 
is  called  “the  little  BeerT* 

I conceived  the  shrewd  idea  of  inviting  the  young  vir- 
tuoso to  perform  a Solo  in  my  Concert,  this  was  willingly 
assented  to  by  the  family.  As  it  was  the  boy’s  first  appear- 
ance in  public,  it  drew  a crowd  of  his  admirers,  and  I may 
chiefly  thank  that  circumstance  for  my  concert  having  been 
one  of  the  most  numerously  attended  of  a period  that  teemed 
with  Musical  performances.  After  overcoming  numerous  ob- 
stacles it  eventually  took  place  in  the  theatre.  My  playing, 
and  the  singing  of  my  fair  fellow  traveller  were  received  here 
as  at  Leipsic  with  great  applause.  Not  so  favorable  however 
was  the  criticism  that  appeared  in  the  new  Musical  Journal 
then  but  recently  published  by  Reichard  the  Musical  conduc- 
tor of  the  Royal  Orchestra.  He  aminadverted  in  his  own  pe- 
culiar offensive  manner  chiefly  upon  my  easy  abandon  in  respect 
to  Time. 

Although  I felt  hurt  by  such  an  imputation,  to  which  I 

* This  pun  on  the  idem  sonans  of  the  word  “Beer”  with  “Bar”  anglice 
“Bear”,  being  almost  as  obvious  in  the  English  as  the  German,  will  be 
readily  understood  by  the  reader. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


81 


was  not  yet  accustomed,  I was  obliged  to  confess  that  yield 
ing  to  my  depth  of  feeling,  I had  kept  back  in  the  Can- 
tabile,  perhaps,  too  much,  and  in  the  Passages  and  more  im- 
passioned parts  carried  away  by  my  youthful  fire,  I had 
precipitated  them  too  much.  I therefore  determined  to  correct 
such  blemishes  in  my  execution  without  diminishing  its  force 
of  expression,  and  by  unremitting  attention  I succeeded. 

After  several  unavailing  attempts  to  give  a second  con- 
cert in  Berlin,  I was  compelled  to  abandon  the  idea.  I there- 
fore divided  the  not  unconsiderable  receipts  of  the  first,  with 
my  fellow-traveller,  and  began  to  think  of  my  return  to 
Brunswick,  as  the  period  of  my  leave  of  absence  was  drawing 
to  a close.  Rosa's  mother  also  made  preparations  to  return 
home,  having  failed  in  an  endeavour  to  procure  an  engagement 
for  her  daughter  at  the  Italian  Opera  in  Berlin. 

Rosa  had  daily  evinced  an  increasing  attraction  towards  me, 
and  manifested  her  partiality  without  disguise.  I,  on  the  contrary, 
on  a nearer  acquaintance,  was  obliged  to  confess  to  myself 
that  she  was  not  suited  for  a partner  in  life  for  me,  and  I 
therefore  carefully  avoided  being  betrayed  into  any  declaration. 
She  was  it  is  true,  an  amiable,  unspoiled  girl,  and  richly  en- 
dowed by  nature ; but  her  education,  apart  from  the  polish  of 
social  forms,  had  been  greatly  neglected,  and  what  was  more 
especially  displeasing  to  me,  was  her  bigotted  piety,  which  had 
once  even  led  her  to  attempt  the  conversion  of  the  Lutheran 
heretic  to  the  only  true  Church  of  salvation.  I bore  the 
parting  with  tolerable  self-controul;  but  Rosa  burst  into  tears, 
and  with  the  last  embrace  pressed  into  my  hand  a card  with 
the  letter  J2,  worked  upon  it  with  her  beautiful  black  hair, 
as  a souvenir. 

Upon  my  return  to  Brunswick,  I devoted  myself  with 
renewed  zeal  to  Composition.  I wrote  my  H-Minor-Concerto, 
which  was  subsequently  published  by  Simrock  as  Fourth 
Violin-Concerto.  For  the  first  time,  % foreign  pupil  was  sent 
to  me,  one  Herr  Qrimewald  from  Dresden.  During  my  stay  in 
Brunswick,  I also  gave  lessons  to  a Miss  Mayer , a talented 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  I.  $ 


jm,.. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


82 


young  lady  of  sixteen,  who  as  Violiniste  gave  several  concerts 
at  Brunswick  with  much  applause;  under  my  direction  she 
studied  my  concerto  in  D-Minor.  This  pupil,  after  a lapse  of 
five  and  twenty  years,  during  which  time  I had  heard  nothing 
more  of  her,  suddenly  excited  a general  interest,  as  much  on 
account  of  her  fate,  as  of  her  accomplished  execution  on  the 
violin. 

On  one  of  her  earlier  artistic -tours,  when  in  Poland, 
she  had  there  married  a landed-proprietor  of  considerable 
fortune.  Although  then  in  affluent  circumstances,  she  never 
neglected  the  further  cultivation  of  her  great  talent,  though 
only  as  amateur. * This  enabled  her,  after  her  husband  had 
lost  his  whole  fortune  in  the  Polish  revolution,  and  had  be- 
come a refugee,  to  support  herself  and  her  daughter.  As 
Madame  Filipowicz . she  again  made  her  appearance  as  an 
artiste,  in  Dresden,  and  played  there  the  same  D-Minor-Concerto 
she  had  studied  under  me  five  and  twenty  years  before.  As 
she  considered  that  she  was  chiefly  indebted  for  her  now  in- 
creasing success  to  her  rendering  of  that  Concerto,  she  felt  im- 
pelled to  express  her  thanks  to  her  former  Instructor  in  a 
letter.  It  was  thus  I became  acquainted  with  the  above  cir- 
cumstances. After  her  artistic  - tour  through  Germany,  she 
settled  in  Paris,  and  at  a later  period  in  London.  From  both 
places  I received  several  letters  from  her.  Upon  my  last 
journey  but  one  to  London,  when  I had  hoped  to  have  seen 
her  again,  I was  informed  that  she  had  died  a few  days  before 
my  arrival,  and  I only  made  the  acquaintance  of  her  daugh- 
ter, and  of  her  husband,  who  was  a Doctor,  and  also  a Polish 
refugee. 

But  to  return  to  the  year  1805.  In  the  spring,  I recei- 
ved a letter  from  Rosa,  in  which  with  her  ingenuous  simpli- 
city she  said,  that,  so  great  had  her  longing  become  to  see  me 
again,  that  she  had  prevailed  on  her  father  to  make  an  ar- 
tistic tour  to  Brunswick ; that  she  would  arrive  in  a few  days, 
and  begged  me  to  make  the  preliminary  arrangements  for  a 
concert.  I was  not  best  pleased  with  this  intelligence,  and 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


83 


foresaw  that  great  embarrassments  might  arise  from  it.  I 
now  perceived  with  regret  that  Rosa's  inclination  towards  me 
was  much  more  earnest  than  I had  beleived,  and  I reproached 
myself  bitterly  for  my  conduct  towards  her.  It  was  also  evi- 
dent to  me,  that  her  father  had  only  undertaken  this  journey 
to  bring  me  to  some  declaration  in  respect  to  his  daughter. 
I therefore  looked  forward  to  their  arrival  with  great  anxiety. 
But  everything  passed  off  much  better  than  I had  anticipated. 
Rosa's  heartfelt  joy,  to  see  me  again , her  lively  unsuspecting 
simplicity,  which  did  not  permit  her  to  feel  the  least  doubt 
of  a reciprocity  of  her  feelings,  assisted  me  to  the  avoidance 
of  any  explanation.  Thus,  after  a fortnight’s  stay,  they  left 
Brunswick  and  returned  to  Dresden,  very  satisfied  with  their 
visit,  and  the  brilliant  Concert  which  my  assistance  obtained  for 
them;  and  it  was  arranged  that  I should  visit  them  after  my 
projected  journey  to  Vienna,  in  the  autumn. 

As  they  wished  to  return  by  way  of  Gottingen,  I gave 
them  a letter  of  introduction  to  my  parents.  During  a stay 
of  several  days  with  my  parents,  Rosa  so  won  their  hearts 
by  her  amiability,  that  with  unhesitating  confidence  she^ con- 
fessed her  love  for  their  son.  Concluding  from  this,  that  I 
returned  her  affection,  my  parents  had  embraced  her  as  my 
betrothed.  I was  greatly  allarmed  when  1 learned  this  in  a 
letter  frpm  my  father;  protested  against  this  engagement, 
and  assigned  as  ground  for  my  refusal,  Rosa's  want  of  edu- 
cation, and  the  difference  in  our  religious  faith.  My  father 
would  not  see  the  matter  in  this  light,  and  repeatedly  declared 
that  I was  a fool,  to  refuse  so  charming  a girl. 

In  June  1805,  I received  a letter  from  Barwolf,  a Musi- 
cian of  the  Ducal  Orchestra  at  Gotha,  who  was  unknown  to  me, 
that  greatly  influenced  my  destiny.  Herr  Barwolf  wrote  to 
inform  me  of  a vacancy  that  had  taken  place  in  the  Orchestra 
there,  by  the  death  of  the  Director  Etrist,  and  that  the  In- 
tendant,  Baron  voti  Leibnitz , who  had  read  so  favorable  a notice 
of  my  performances  in  the  Leipsic  Musical- Journal,  was  very 
desirous  to  recommend  me  to  that  post,  if  I would  make  im- 

6* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


84 


mediate  application  for  it.  But,  for  this,  it  was  required  that 
I should  repair  personally  to  Gotha.  He  therefore  invited  me 
to  come  and  play  at  the  Concert  that  was  to  take  place  at 
Court  on  the  11.  July,  in  celebration  of  the  birth-day  of  the 
dutchess. 

Extremely  pleased  at  this,  I hastened  to  the  Duke,  to 
request  his  consent  to  my  journey.  I received  it,  and  imme- 
diately anounced  this  at  Gotha.  Arrived  there,  Herr  Barwolf 
introduced  me  to  the  Intendant.  The  latter  appeared  aston- 
ished to  see  before  him  so  young  a man,  and  said  with  a 
thoughtful  expression  of  countenance,  that  I appeared  to  him 
almost  too  young  to  place  at  the  head  of  so  many  men,  all 
older  than  myself.  But  after  I had  conducted  two  Overtures 
at  the  rehearsal,  and  executed  my  Concerto  in  D-Minor,  the 
Herr  Intendant,  had  quite  changed  his  mind,  for  he  requested 
me  to  conceal  my  real  age,  and  to  give  myself  out  as  four 
or  five  years  older.  I was  therefore  introduced  to  the  Court 
as  a competitor  for  the  situation,  of  twenty  fours  years  of  age. 
But  the  resort  to  such  a deceit  was  indeed  scarcely  requisite 
to  obtain  it,  for  on  my  first  appearance  at  the  Court-Concert 
I won  the  favour  of  the  Dutchess  so  completely,  that  the  other 
competitors  were  all  obliged  to  retire.  By  a Decree  of  the 
5.  August,  1805,  I was  installed  as  Concert-Director  to  the 
Ducal  Court  of  Gotha,  with  a salary  of  nearly  five  hundred 
thalers,  inclusive  of  allowances,  my  service  duties  to  commence 
on  the  1.  October. 

As  my  leave  of  absence  was  not  quite  expired,  by  the 
advice  of  Herr  Barwolf,  before  returning  to  Brunswick,  I made 
a little  excursion  to  Wilhelmsthal  near  Eisenach,  the  family 
seat  of  the  Court  of  Weimar.  With  the  recommendation  of 
the  Dutchess  of  Gotha  it  was  easy  for  me  to  obtain  a hearing. 
I played,  pleased  greatly,  and  on  leaving,  received  a handsome, 
present.  On  my  return  to  Gotha,  I gave  in  haste,  a Concert 
that  had  been  meanwhile  arranged  for  there,  which  was  also 
attended  by  the  Court,  and  then  set  out  on  my  return  to  my 
native  town  highly  gratified  with  the  result  of  my  journey. 


Digitized  by  Google 


85 


I went  by  way  of  Seesen,  and  was  joyfully  congratulated  by 
my  parents  and  the  friends  of  my  family  upon  the  new  dig- 
nity conferred  upon  me.  In  order  to  make  the  rest  of  the 
journey  more  pleasant  for  me,  my  father  lent  me  his  saddle- 
horse,  and  thus  conduced  to  give  my  hitherto  prosperous 
journey  a tragical  end;  for  a few  leagues  from  Brunswick, 
while  riding  homewards  at  a sharp  trot,  absorbed  in  deep 
thought  upon  the  future,  and  paying  but  little  attention  to 
the  road,  the  horse  fell,  his  foot  haying  caught  in  a deep  rut, 
and  threw  his  rider  rudely  to  the  ground.  I fell  over  the 
horse’s  heacf  with  my  face  upon  a small  heap  of  broken  road- 
stones,  before  I could  spread  out  my  hands  sufficiently  to 
break  my  fall;  my  face  was  therefore  cut  in  such  a manner 
by  the  sharp  stones,  that  the  blood  flowed  profusely.  In  a 
few  minutes  also,  the  wounds  became  so  swollen  as  almost  to 
close  my  eyes.  Half  blind,  and  wholly  unable  to  help  my- 
self, I stood  in  the  road,  until  at  length  some  foot-passengers 
came  to  my  assistance.  After  they  had  caught  my  horse,  they 
led  me  to  the  nearest  village.  They  there  procured  for  me 
a four  wheeled  peasant’s- cart,  with  straw  spread  out  in  it, 
upon  which  I was  brought  in  the  most  deplorable  condition 
to  my  lodgings  at  a late  hour  in  the  evening.  A Doctor 
having  been  sent  for,  he  ordered  my  face  to  be  bathed  and 
bound  with  linen-rags  steeped  in  Goulard  water,  which  being 
continued  throughout  the  night,  the  swelling  had  so  much 
subsided  by  the  morning,  that  I could  again  open  my  eyes. 
After  the  Doctor  had  carefully  examined  my  face,  and  allayed 
my  anxiety  respecting  all  further  results  from  my  fall;  I 
soon  recovered  my  cheerfulness  of  mood,  and  alone  lamented 
that  I could  not  immediately  wait  upon  my  noble  Patron  to 
solicit  his  permission  to  accept  the  situation  of  the  Director- 
ship. But  as  meanwhile  I was  not  without  some  anxiety,  lest 
my  benefactor,  to  whom  I was  so  greatly  indebted,  might 
take  it  ill  that  I could  thus  leave  his  service,  I was  rather 
pleased  that  my  accident  filrnished  me  with  an  excuse  to 
address  a letter  to  the  duke.  But  I had  judged  him  wrong- 


86 


fully;  for  on  the  following  day  I received  the  solicited  per- 
mission in  his  own  handwriting.  I have  carefully  preserved 
that  letter  as  a cherished  Memorial,  and  cannot  deny  myself 
the  pleasure  of  quoting  it  here,  as  follows: 

My  dear  Herr  Spohr. 

I have  read  with  much  interest  the  successful  result  of 
your  performance  at  Wilhelmsthal  and  Gotha.  The  advant- 
ageous offer  made  to  you  at  Gotha  is  such  as  your  talents 
well  merit,  and  as  I have  always  taken  great  interest  in  your 
fortune  and  success,  I can  but  congratulate*  you  on  your  ap- 
pointment to  a position  where  you  will  undoubtedly  find  more 
opportunity  for  the  exercice  of  your  talent. 

I remain  very  respectfully 
your  well  wisher 

Carl  W.  Ferd. 

Releived  now  of  my  last  anxiety,  I was  truly  happy.  But 
it  occurred  to  me,  that  in  this  letter,  the  Duke  addressed 
me  for  the  first  time  ‘Tow”,  while  hitherto  he  had  always 
honoured  me  with  the  benevolent,  fatherly  “Thou”.  I never- 
theless consoled  myself  readily  with  the  reflexion,  that  the 
Duke  might  have  thought  it  more  becoming  so  to  address  a 
person  leaving  his  service. 

In  about  a fortnight  or  three  weeks,  my  face  was  so  far 
healed,  that  I could  again  announce  myself  ready  to  resume 
my  orchestral  duties. 

Before  I had  done  so,  I received  a letter  from  Dussek , 
who  wrote  to  say  that  his  master,  Prince  Louis  Ferdinand, 
was  about  to  proceed  to  the  grand  military  manoeuvres  at 
Magdeburg,  and  wished  that  I should  be  his  guest  during 
that  time,  in  order  to  give  my  assistance  at  the  projected 
Music -parties  there.  The  Prince  would  himself  write  to  the 
Duke  to  solicit  the  leave  of  absence  for  me.  This  was  imme- 
diately granted.  I therefore  proceeded  to  Magdeburg,  and 
found  in  the  house  which  the  Prince  had  taken  for  himself 
and  his  suite,  a room  also,  for  me.  I now  led  an  extraor- 
dinary, wild  and  active  life,  which  nevertheless  suited  my 


Digitized  by 


Google 


87 


youthful  taste  right  well  for  a short  time.  Frequently  at 
six  o’clock  in  the  morning,  were  Dussek  and  I roused  from  our 
beds  and  conducted  in  dressing-gown  and  slippers  to  the  Re- 
ception-saloon, where  the  Prince  was  already  seated  at  the 
pianoforte  in  yet  lighter  costume,  the  heat  being  then  very 
great,  and  indeed,  generally  in  his  shirt  and  drawers  only. 
Now  began  the  practice  and  rehearsal  of  the  music  that  was 
intended  to  be  played  in  the  evening  circles,  and  from  the 
Prince’s  zeal,  this  lasted  frequently  so  long,  that  in  the 
meantime  the  saloon  was  filled  with  Officers  decorated,  and 
bestarred.  The  costume  of  the  Musicians  contrasted  then 
somewhat  strangely  with  the  brilliant  uniforms  of  those 
who  had  come  to  pay  their  court  to  the  Prince.  But  this 
did  not  trouble  his  Royal  Highness  in  the  least,  neither  would 
he  leave  off  until  everything  had  been  practised  to  his  sa- 
tisfaction. Then  we  finished  our  toilet  in  all  haste,  snatched 
as  hasty  a breakfast,  and  rode  off  to  the  review.  I had  a 
horse  appropriated  to  me  from  the  Prince’s  stud,  and  was 
permitted  to  ride  with  his  suite.  In  this  manner  for  a time 
to  my  great  amusement,  I took  part  in  all  the  warlike  evo- 
lutions. But,  one  day  I found  myself  jammed  in  close  to  a 
battery,  where  I was  obliged  to  endure  for  more  than  an  hour 
a truly  hellish-noise,  and  when  in  the  evening  at  the  Music 
party  I found  that  I could  not  hear  so  distinctly  as  before , I 
held  back  from  the  warlike  spectacle  and  from  that  time  spent 
those  hours  in  which  the  Prince  did  not  require  me,  with  my 
former  acquaintances  in  Magdeburg.  In  the  house  of  the 
Privy  Counsellor  Schafer  I met  with  a most  friendly  welcome. 
His  daughter  Jettchen,  who,  previously,  while  residing  in  Bruns- 
wick, in  the  house  of  her  brother-in-law  the  Conductor  Le 
Gaye , had  been  an  object  of  my  admiration,  was  now  retur- 
ned to  her  paternal  home,  and  here  also  performed  the  part 
of  a kind  and  attentive  hostess  to  me. 

Soon,  however,  the  Prince  was  recalled  from  his  exile  to 
Magdeburg,  and  dismissed  by  him  with  friendly  thanks,  I 
could  now  return  to  Brunswick.  Dussek  on  taking  leave  of 


Digitized  by  Google 


88 


me,  told  me  that  the  Prince  had  intended  to  have  made  me 
a present , but  that  his  purse  was  at  so  low  an  ebb, 
he  must  postpone  it  to  a later  and  more  favorable  time. 
But  that  time  never  came;  for  the  Prince  found  an  early 
death  in  the  following  year  in  an  action  near  Saalfeld.  In 
the  beginning  of  October,  after  an  honourable  discharge  from 
the  Duke's  service  had  been  duly  made  out  for  me,  I left  my 
native  town.  On  my  taking  leave,  the  Duke  said  to  me  with 
truly  paternal  benevolence,  as  he  extended  his  hand  to  me: 
“should  you  dear  Spohr  find  your  new  place  unpleasant  to 
you,  you  can  re-enter  my  service  at  any  time.” 

I parted  with  my  benefactor,  deeply  moved;  and  alas! 
never  saw  him  more,  — for  as  is  well  known  he  fell  mor- 
tally wounded  at  the  unfortunate  battle  of  Jena,  and  died  a 
fugitive  in  a foreign  land.  I mourned  for  him,  as  for  a father. 

Arrived  in  Gotha,  I was  introduced  to  the  members  of 
the  Ducal  Orchestra  by  the  Intendant  Baron  von  Leibnitz , as 
Concert-Director,  and  made  acquainted  with  my  sphere  of 
duties.  This  consisted,  both  in  winter  and  summer,  in  the 
arrangement  of  a concert  at  Court  every  week,  and  in  prac- 
tising and  rehearsing  the  orchestra  in  the  music  chosen  for 
the  occasion.  As  the  orchestra  had  no  other  duties  be- 
yond these  concerts,  I was  enabled  to  have  three  or  four 
rehearsals  of  each,  and  to  practise  all  that  was  to  be  per- 
formed at  these  with  the  greatest  precision.  By  my  zeal,  and 
the  good-will  of  the  members,  I soon  succeeded  in  attaining 
an  exceeding  accuracy  of  ensemble  which  was  recognised 
by  the  Dutchess  and  some  of  the  Musical-connoisseurs  in  the 
Court-circle,  and  elicited  much  praise. 

The  orchestra  consisted  in  part  of  musicians  of  the  Ducal 
Chamber,  and  in  part  of  Court-hautboyists.  It  was  the  duty 
of  the  latter  to  play  also  during  the  repasts,  and  at  Court- 
balls.  Among  the  musicians  of  the  Chamber,  there  was  a 
whole  bevy  of  solo-players.  The  chief  were:  on  the  violin, 
Madame  Schlick  and  Messrs.  Preissing  and  Bdrwolf\  #on  the 
violoncello,  Messrs.  Schlick , Preissing  jun.  and  Rohde ; on  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


89 


clarionet,  bassoon  and  harp,  Herr  Backhofen;  on  the  hautboy, 
Herr  Hofmann;  and  Herr  Walch  on  the  horn. 

For  the  vocal  parts  at  the  Court -Concerts  two  Court- 
singers  Mesdames  Scheidler  and  Reinhard  were  engaged.  The 
husband  of  the  latter  accompained  the  vocalists  on  the  piano- 
forte. Being  the  oldest  member  of  the  orchestra,  he  had  warmly 
competed  for  the  vacant  post  of  Conductor;  and  as  the  Duke’s 
musical  instructor,  some  regard  was  due  to  him ; he  also,  there- 
fore, had  the  title  of  Concert-Master  conferred  upon  him  on  my 
appointment,  and  his  rescript  was  even  of  anterior  date  to 
mine.  For  this  reason  he  at  first  made  some  weak  attempts, 
to  assume  the  direction  of  the  vocal  performances.  But  I 
knew  so  well  how  to  overawe  him  by  my  decisive  bearing  as 
first  Violin,  that  he  soon  succumbed  as  willingly  to  my  lead 
at  the  pianoforte,  as  at  the  viol,  on  which  he  performed  in  the 
instrumental  music.  I was  also  soon  enabled  to  overcome  the 
opposition  of  the  Schlick  family  who  relied  on  the  favour  of 
Prince  Augustus,  the  Duke’s  uncle,  and  then  undisturbedly 
maintained  my  directorial-position. 

In  the  introductory  visits  I made  to  the  members  of  the 
orchestra  I was  received  most  cordially  by  the  Court- singer 
Madame  Scheidler . She  introduced  me  to  her  daughter 
Dorette , of  the  age  of  eighteen,  of  whose  skill  upon  the  harp 
and  pianoforte  I had  already  heard  much.  In  this  charming 
hlondine  I recognised  the  girl  whom  I had  seen  on  my  first 
visit  to  Gotha,  and  whose  pleasing  form  had  since  then  fre- 
quently recurred  to  my  memory.  At  the  Concert  which  I 
then  gave  in  that  town,  she  had  sat  in  the  first  row  of  the 
auditory,  by  the  side  of  a female  friend,  who  upon  my  ap- 
pearance, astonished  at  so  tall  a figure,  exclaimed  rather 
louder  than  she  had  intended:  “Just  look,  Dorette 9 what  a 
long  hop-pole  1”  Upon  hearing  this  exclamation,  my  eye  fell 
upon  the  girls,  and  I saw  Dorette  blush  with  embarrassment. 
With  a similar  graceful  blush  she  now  again  stood  before  me, 
probably  recollecting  that  circumstance.  To  put  an  end 
therefore  to  a situation  so  painful  to  me,  I entreated  her 


Digitized  by  Google 


90 


to  play  something  on  the  harp.  Without  the  least  affectation 
she  complied  with  my  wish. 

When  a boy,  I had  myself  once  made  an  attempt  to  learn 
the  harp , and  took  lessons  of  one  Herr  Hasenbalg  in  Bruns- 
wick, when  I soon  got  so  far  as  to  be  able  to  accompany 
my  songs.  But  after  my  voice  had  broken,  and  that  for  a 
considerable  time  I remained  without  any  voice  at  all,  the 
harp  was  neglected,  and  at  length  wholly  laid  aside.  My 
predilection  for  that  instrument  had  nevertheless  remained  the 
same ; and  I had  given  my  attention  to  it  sufficiently  long,  to 
know,  how  difficult  it  is,  if  one  would  play  more  than  mere 
accompaniments  upon  it.  My  astonishment  and  delight  may 
therefore  be  imagined,  when  I heard  so  young  a girl  execute 
a difficult  “Fantasia”  of  her  instructor  Backofen,  with  the 
greatest  confidence,  and  with  the  finest  shades  of  expression. 
I was  so  deeply  moved,  that  I could  scarce  restrain  my  tears. 
Bowing  in  silence,  I took  my  leave;  — but  my  heart  re- 
mained behind!  Irresistibly  impelled,  my  visits  now  became 
frequent,  and  my  reception  more  friendly  every  time. 

I accompanied  the  daughter  on  the  piano,  which  she  played 
with  the  same  excellence  as  the  harp,  assisted  the  mother  in 
the  practise  of  her  songs  for  the  Court-Concerts,  and  so  made 
myself  more  and  more  necessary  to  the  family.  The  first 
piece  that  I composed  in  Gotha,  was  a grand  “Vocal  Scena” 
for  a soprano  voice,  which  I dedicated  to  Dorette's  mother, 
and  which  she  sang  with  great  applause  at  one  of  the  Court- 
Concerts.  For  myself  and  the  daughter,  I then  wrote  a Con- 
certed Sonata  for  violin  and  harp,  which  I practised  with  her 
in  the  most  careful  manner.  They  were  happy  hours! 

Thus,  after  my  arrival,  had  a month  passed  away  for 
me  in  the  most  agreable  manner,  when  the  Court  set  out 
for  the  session  of  Parliament  at  Altenburg  and  took  the  or- 
chestra with  it.  Dorette  also  accompanied  her  mother  thither. 
I offered  myself  to  them  as  a travelling-companion,  but  unfor- 
tunately made  my  application  too  late,  for  they  had  already 
arranged  to  travel  in  company  with  Messrs.  Preissling , the 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


91 


brothers  of  Madame  Scheidler.  I was  therefore  obliged  to 
seek  other  travelling-companions;  but  at  every  place  where 
we  stopped  to  take  refreshment  I did  not  fail  to  join  imme- 
diately the  Scheidler  family,  and  always  contrived  to  get  pos- 
session of  the  place  at  table  next  to  Dorette.  These  meetings 
after  a separation  of  four  or  five  hours,  gave  a peculiar  charm 
to  the  otherwise  long  and  tedious  journey,  so  much  so  indeed, 
that  when  at  length  on  the  evening  of  the  third  day  we 
entered  the  gates  of  Altenburg,  it  seemed  too  short  to  me.  I 
was  lodged  in  the  house  of  Secretary  Bnmmer  who  as  a 
great  lover  of  music  had  begged  that  I might  become  his 
guest.  I met  with  the  most  friendly  reception  and  a well 
furnished  table.  But  I had  previously  arranged  to  dine  always 
at  Madame  Scheidler’s,  who  like  an  active  housewife  had  im- 
mediately established  a kitchen  of  her  own,  for  herself  and 
brothers.  Henceforth,  treated  almost  like  a member  of  the 
family,  I had  full  opportunity  to  become  more  nearly  acquain- 
ted with  my  beloved  Dorette.  Her  father,  an  excellent  musician, 
and  a man  of  scientific  attainments,  had,  up  to  his  death,  which 
had  taken  place  two  years  before,  devoted  himself  entirely  to 
the  education  and  improvement  of  this  daughter.  With  an 
almost  extreme  severity  he  had  compelled  her  not  only  from 
her  earliest  childhood  to  pursue  the  study  of  Music,  but  also, 
instructed  her,  in  part  personally,  and  partly  through  the 
medium  of  other  able  teachers  in  every  branch  of  education 
suitable  to  a young  female.  She  therefore  spoke  Italian  and 
French  with  the  greatest  fluency  and  wrote  her  mother  tongue 
with  ease  and  correctness.  But  her  brilliant  execution  both 
on  the  harp  and  pianoforte  was  already  then  despite  her  youth, 
truly  remarkable!  Yes,  even  upon  the  violin  on  which  instru- 
ment her  uncle  Preissing  gave  her  instruction,  she  had  acquired 
so  much  skill,  that  she  could  play  Vtotti’s  Duetts  with  me. 
But  as  I advised  her  to  discontinue  the  practise  of  that  in- 
strument so  unbecoming  for  females,  and  to  devote  rather  her 
undivided  study  to  the  two  others,  she  adopted  my  advice  and 
from  that  moment  gave  it  up. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


92 


Meanwhile  the  Court-concerts  had  commenced.  They  took 
place  in  a large  saloon  in  the  Palace,  very  favourable  for 
music,  and  together  with  the  Court  were  attended  by  the  par- 
liamentary Deputies  and  by  the  dignitaries  of  the  town.  The 
orchestra,  as  well  as  the  performances  both  of  myself  and  the 
other  soloplayers  met  with  great  applause.  Dorette's  Soli’s 
on  the  harp  and  piano  made  also  a great  sensation.  In  this 
manner  the  concert-days  were  soon  looked  forward  to  by  the 
Altenburgers  as  real  festival  days,  and  the  auditory  encreased 
so  much  in  number  each  time,  that  at  length  there  was  scar- 
cely room  for  their  accommodation.  There  were  also  many 
private  Music  - parties , at  which  I and  the  members  of  the 
Scheidler  family  never  failed  to  be  invited.  One  day,  however, 
I was  invited  with  Dorette , but  without  her  mother,  to  a Fete 
given  by  the  Minister  von  Thiimmel,  to  the  Court  and  its  im- 
mediate circle.  We  were  requested  to  reproduce  my  Sonata 
for  the  harp  und  violin,  which  we  had  already  played  with 
great  success  at  the  Court  - concerts.  With  some  timidity  I 
ventured  to  ask  whether  I might  fetch  Dorette  in  the  carriage, 
and  felt  delighted  beyond  measure,  when  her  mother  without 
hesitation  gave  her  consent.  Thus  alone  for  the  first  time 
with  the  beloved  girl,  I felt  the  impulse  to  make  a full  con- 
fession of  my  feelings  towards  her;  but  my  courage  failed  me, 
and  the  carriage  drew  up,  before  I had  been  able  to  utter  a 
syllable.  As  I held  out  my  hand  to  her  to  alight,  I felt  by 
the  tremor  of  hers,  how  great  had  also  been  her  emotion. 
This  gave  me  new  courage,  and  I had  almost  plumped  out 
with  my  declaration  of  love  upon  the  very  stairs,  had  not  the 
door  of  the  Reception  - saloon  been  thrown  open  at  the  same 
moment. 

That  evening  we  played  with  an  inspiration  and  a sym- 
pathy of  feeling  that  not  alone  carried  us  wholly  away,  but 
so  electrified  the  company  also,  that  all  rose  spontaneously, 
and  gathering  round  us,  overwhelmed  us  with  praise.  The 
Dutchess  whispered  some  words  in  Dorette's  ear,  which  brought 
blushes  to  her  cheek. 


Digitized  by  Google 


93 


I interpreted  them  as  favorable  to  me,  and  now  on  the 
drive  home  I at  length  found  courage  to  say : “Shall  we  thus 
play  together  for  life?”  Bursting  into  tears,  she  sank  into 
my  arms;  the  compact  for  life  was  sealed  I I led  her  to  her 
mother,  who  joined  our  hands  and  gave  us  her  blessing. 

The  next  morning  I announced  my  happiness  to  my  pa- 
rents. But  before  I could  enjoy  it  without  alloy,  I felt  com- 
pelled to  write  another  letter,  and  one  which  was  to  me  a 
most  disagreable  task.  I felt  the  injustice  of  my  conduct 
towards  Rosa,  and  the  necessity  to  ask  her  forgiveness.  I had 
it  is  true,  never  made  a declaration  of  my  love  to  her ; but  it 
had  been  but  too  apparent  in  the  earlier  period  of  our  ac- 
quaintance. To  that  was  added  moreover,  the  circumstance 
that,  my  parents  had  greeted  her  in  Seesen  as  my  betrothed. 
What  the  arguments  were  that  I resorted  to  in  exulpation  of 
my  injustice,  I no  longer  remember  at  this  distance  of  time. 
Probably  I may  have  again  adverted  to  the  difference  of  re- 
ligion, which  could  alone  serve  me  as  excuse  for  my  withdrawal. 
The  letter  was  at  length  finished ; and  with  a lightened  heart  I 
took  it  to  the  post.  I anxiously  expected  an  answer ; but  none 
came.  At  a later  period  1 learned  that  Rose i had  returned  to 
Italy  with  her  parents  who  had  acquired  some  fortune  in  Ger- 
many. Some  years  afterwards,  I was  told  when  in  Dresden, 
that  Rosa,  led  by  her  devotional  turn  of  mind,  had  retired 
to  a convent,  and  after  the  year's  novitiate  had  taken  the 
veil.  I never  could  think  of  that  charming  maiden  without 
sentiments  of  the  deepest  sorrow! 

At  the  dinner -table  on  the  following  day  all  appeared  in 
full  dress;  it  was  to  celebrate  our  betrothal.  The  news  of 
this  had  soon  spread  through  the  town,  and  not  only  the 
memhsrg  of  the  Ducal  orchestra,  but  also  many  of  the  inha- 
bitan  Wfef  the  place  came  to  felicitate  the  engaged  couple.  At 
the  next  concert  the  same  took  place  on  the  part  of  the 
Dutchess  and  the  Court. 

With  the  end  of  the  year,  the  session  of  Parliament  drew 
also  to  a close,  and  the  return  of  the  Court  to  Gotha  was 


Digitized  by  Google 


94 


already  spoken  of,  when  I solicited  an  eight  day’s  leave  of 
absence  to  go  to  Leipsic  in  order  to  give  a concert  there. 
Preparatory  to  that,  I had  already  made  enquiries  of  my 
friends  of  the  foregoing  year,  and  received  from  them  the  most 
favorable  assurances.  My  bride,  and  her  mother  accompanied 
me , to  appear  also  in  the  same  concert.  This  therefore 
offered  a diversity  of  attraction  to  the  public,  and  consequently 
the  attendance  was  very  numerous.  I played  a new  Violin- 
Concerto  in  C-Major  (published  by  Kiihnel  as  the  third)  which 
I had  begun  in  Gotha  and  finished  at  Altenburg.  Both  my 
playing  and  composition  found  as  warm  a reception  as  in  the 
previous  year.  My  bride  also  met  with  the  most  enthusiastic 
applause.  She  played  Backhofen's  Fantasia,  and  with  me  the 
new  Sonata.  On  this  occasion , it  was  again  our  combined 
play  that  was  considered  the  most  brilliant  performance 
of  the  evening.  The  mother,  a singer  possessed  of  a power- 
ful, pleasing  tone,  and  of  a good  school,  executed,  accom- 
panied by  her  daughter,  the  aria  of  Mozart  with  Pianoforte 
obligato,  *fcs  also,  my  new  vocal-Scena,  with  great  success. 

Highly  satisfied  with  the  result  of  our  undertaking,  we  returned 
to  Altenburg,  and  shortly  afterwards  with  the  Court  to  Gotha. 

Madame  Scheidler  resided  there  in  a very  roomy  and 
well  furnished  house,  of  which  without  feeling  in  the  least  in- 
convenienced, she  could  readily  give  up  to  me  an  apart- 
ment or  two.  As  she  offered  to  take  my  brother  Ferdinand 
who  as  my  pupil  lived  with  me,  together  with  ourselves  as 
boarders,  nothing  therefore  stood  in  the  way  of  my  immediate 
marriage.  The  wedding  was  accordingly  fixed  for  the  2.  February, 
1806.  I hastened  therefore,  to  procure  the  documents,  re- 
quisite for  the  occasion,  my  certificate  of  baptism,  and 
the  consent  of  my  parents.  To  my  regret,  they  were  unable 
to  bring  tjiis  to  me  in  person,  as  my  father  dare  not  leave 
his  patients,  some  of  whom  were  dangerously  ill,  but  they 
sent  my  brother  William * to  be  a witness  to  my  happiness.  • 

* Afterwards  architect  to  the  Court  of  Brunswick,  and  father  of  the 
well  known  harpiste  Rosalie  Spohr. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


It  created  bo  little  astonishment  when  I produced  my 
certificate  of  baptism,  that  instead  of  growing  older  in  Gotha, 

I had  become  several  years  younger!  But  as  I had  already 
sufficiently  established  my  authority  as  Concert -Director  I 
experienced  no  subsequent  prejudice  from  this  discovery. 

The  ardently  desired  2.  February,  dawned  at  length. 
At  the  request  of  the  Dutchess  who  wished  to  be  present, 
the  marriage  took  place  in  the  Palace-chapel.  Upon  the  conclusion  - 
of  the  ceremony  the  newly  married  pair  received  the  felicita- 
tions and  wedding-presents  of  their  illustrious  Patroness.  At 
home,  we  found  assembled  as  wedding-guests,  the  two  uncles 
Preissing  and  several  other  of  the  most  intimate  friends 
among  the  members  of  the  Ducal  orchestra,  as  also  Cantor 
Schade,  an  old  friend  of  the  Scheidler  family.  After  dinner 
many  others  came.  Among  these  the  playmates  and  school- 
fellows of  Dorette . All  brought  with  them  their  friendly  gifts. 
Neither  was  she  wanting  who  had  compared  me  to  a hop-pole, 
and  as  punishment  for  the  unbecoming  comparison,  she  was  fre- 
quently obliged  to  endure  a little  raillery.  As  the  weather 
was  too  unfavourable  for  an  excursion,  or  promenade,  music 
was  kept  up  till  a late  hour  in  the  evening. 

In  the  midst  of  Music  also,  the  happy  pair  passed  the 
honeymoon.  I began  forthwith  a diligent  study  of  the  harp, 
in  order  to  ascertain  thoroughly  what  was  best  adapted  to 
the  character  of  the  instrument.  As  I was  prone  to  a rich- 
ness of  modulation  in  my  compositions,  it  was  therefore  requi- 
site  to  make  myself  especially  well  acquainted  with  the  pedals 
of  the  harp,  so  as  to  write  nothing  that  would  be  imprac- 
ticable for  them.  This  could  not  readily  occur,  on  account  of 
the  great  accuracy  with  which  my  wife  had  already  then  mas- 
tered the  whole  Technics  of  the  instrument.  I therefore  gave 
free  play  to  my  fancy,  and  soon  succeeded  in  obtaining  wholly 
new  effects  from  the  instrument.  / 

As  the  Harp  sounded  most  advantageously  in  combination 
with  the  singing  tones  of  my  Violin,  I wrote  more  especially 
Concerted  compositions  for  both  instruments  alone.  At  a 


Digitized  by  foozle 


96 


later  period,  it  is  true,  I made  trial,  also,  of  two  Concertanti 
with  Orchestral  accompaniment,  and  of  a Trio  for  Harp,  Violin 
and  Violoncello;  but  as  I found  that  every  Accompaniment 
only  disturbed  our  mutual  and  deeply  felt  harmony  of  action, 
I soon  abandoned  it. 

Another  attempt  to  obtain  a greater  effect,  had  however, 
a more  successful  result.  I conceived  the  idea  of  pitching  the 
harp  half  a tone  lower  than  the  violin.  By  so  doing  I 
gained  in  two  ways.  For,  as  the  violin  sounds  most  bril- 
liantly in  the  crow  or  sharp  notes,  but  the  harp  best  in  the 
B- tones  or  flat  notes,  when  the  fewest  pedals  possible  are 
moved;  I thereby  obtained  for  both  instruments  the  most  favour- 
able and  most  effective  key-notes:  for  the  violin  namely,  D 
and  6;  for  the  harp  E and  A-flat.  A second  advantage  was, 
that,  from  the  lower  tuning  of  the  harp,  a string  would  less 
frequently  break,  which  in  public  performances  in  very  warm 
rooms  so  frequently  happens  to  the  harpist,  and  mars  the 
enjoyment  of  the  hearers.  From  this  time  therefore,  I wrote  all 
my  Compositions  for  harp  and  violin  in  that  difference  of  the  keys. 

Dorette , forcibly  attracted  by  these  new  Compositions, 
devoted  at  that  time  her  attention  exclusively  to  the  study 
of  the  harp,  and  soon  obtained  such  a brilliant  execution, 
that  I felt  an  eager  desire  to  exhibit  this  before  a larger 
public  than  that  of  the  Court-concerts  of  Gotha.  As  I beleived 
also,  to  have  now  perfected  my  own  Play  in  a manner  such 
as  no  other  could  readily  surpass,  I resolved  to  set  out  on  an 
Artistic  tour  with  my  wife  in  the  ensuing  autumn.  I had 
already  stipulated  for  such  a leave  of  absence  upon  receiving 
my  appointment,  and  it  had  been  acceded  to  in  consideration 
of  my  then  small  salary. 

Meanwhile  as  the  autumn  drew  near,  a twofold  obstacle 
presented  itself  to  the  execution  of  my  cherished  projects. 
The  war  between  Prussia  and  France  threatened  to  break 
out.  The  Prussian  army  prepared  for  the  struggle,  was  al- 
ready assembled  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Gotha,  and  the  in- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


— 97  — 

habitants  of  the  Dutchy  had  much  to  endure  from  the  bille- 
ting, and  overbearing  insolence  of  the  Prussians. 

Even  though  I might  have  been  able  to  take  my  journey 
in  a direction  that  would  have  carried  us  from  the  tumult  of 
war,  yet  when  my  home  was  in  danger  of  becoming  the  scene 
of  conflict,  I could  not  well  leave  it  in  such  an  extremity. 
Then,  one  day,  with  blushing  cheek  and  beaming  eyes,  my 
little  wife  imparted  to  me  that  towards  the  end  of  winter  she 
looked  forward  to  a mother’s  joys.  Now,  therefore,  indeed  it 
was  no  longer  possible  to  think  of  undertaking  a journey,  and 
all  hesitation  on  the  subject  was  set  at  rest.  I therefore  be- 
thought me  of  some  engrossing  work  that  would  distract  my 
attention  as  much  as  possible  from  all  the  anxieties  of  the 
times.  I had  long  wished  to  try  my  hand  at  a Dramatic 
composition;  but  I had  never  yet  found  a favourable  oppor- 
tunity. Neither,  indeed,  did  that  present  itself  now,  for  Gotha 
possessed  no  Theatre.  Yet,  I thought;  if  the  opera  were  once 
written,  some  opportunity  to  hear  it  might  yet  present  itself. 
Just  at  that  time,  I received  a visit  from  a companion  of  my 
youth  Edward  Henke  my  mother’s  youngest  brother,  afterwards 
Professor  of  Jurisprudence  at  the  university  of  Halle,  who  had 
already  met  with  some  success  in  lyrical  compositions.  I 
persuaded  him  to  write  the  words  of  an  opera  for  me.  We 
cogitated  together  the  subject-matter,  and  the  scenes,  of  a 
one  act  Opera,  to  which  we  gave  the  Name  of  “Die  Prii- 
fung”  (The  Trial).  Edward  began  forthwith  the  composition  of 
the  Song-parts  and  finished  them  wholly  before  his  departure. 
He  promised  to  supply  the  dialogue  afterwards. 

But  before  I could  begin  my  work,  the  storm  of  war 
broke  loose.  The  battle  of  Jena  had  been  fought;  and  with 
that,  the  fate  of  Prussia  decided.  The  Prussians  who  had 
lain  in  and  around  Gotha,  and  who  but  shortly  before  had 
been  so-overbearing  in  their  demeanour  were  now  seen  flying 
in  the  greatest  confusion.  The  disorganisation  of  their  troops 
was  so  complete,  that  their  arms  were  to  be  found  in  thou- 
sands strewn  over  the  fields  near  Gotha.  In  a walk  I took 

8P0HB,  Autobiography.  L 7 


Digitized  by  Google 


a few  days  afterwards,  I found  as  a further  gleaning,  a ram- 
rod, which  I took  home  with  me  as  a reminiscence  of  that 
fatal  day.  Suspended  from  a thread  it  gave  with  a clear 
sound  the  note  Bf  once  struck,  and  served  me  for  many  years 
instead  of  a tuning-fork  when  tuning  the  harp. 

Although  after  the  advance  of  the  French  army  in  pur- 
suit, the  theatre  of  war  was  soon  removed  farther  and  farther 
from  Gotha ; yet  the  quartering  of  troops  upon  the  inhabitants 
was  no  less  continuous.  Fresh  reinforcements  of  French  and 
South-German  troops  were  constantly  moved  forward  in  support ; 
and  a greater  part  of  the  Prussian  prisoners  taken  at  Jena, 
was  brought  through  Gotha.  These  came  in  bodies  of  from 
3 to  4000  men  of  all  arms,  frequently  escorted  by  40  or  50 
voltigeurs,  only,  and  were  shut  up  in  the  great  Church  on  the 
market  place,  opposite  to  our  dwelling,  with  merely  a few 
sentries  mounting  guard  over  them  before  the  closed  doors. 
As  the  nights  were  already  very  cold,  the  men  in  their  thin 
uniforms  must  indeed  have  been  nearly  frozen.  For  that  reason 
also  they  kept  up  a continual  noise  and  outcry.  The  inhabi- 
tants of  the  houses  in  the  neighbourhood,  in  constant  dread 
that  the  prisoners  from  their  greatly  superior  numbers  would 
liberate  themselves,  were  obliged  to  keep  continually  on  the 
watch,  and  for  many  nights  together  could  not  retire  to  rest. 

This,  therefore,  was  by  no  means  the  most  propitious 
time  for  me  to  attempt  a style  of  composition  that  was  quite 
new  to  me.  But  as  my  study  was  situated  near  the  garden, 
at  a distance  from  the  noise  in  the  streets,  1 soon  succeeded 
in  forgetting  every  thing  around  me,  and  gave  myself  up 
heart  and  soul  to  my  work.  In  this  manner,  before  half  the 
winter  had  passed,  I completed  the  composition  of  the  8 
4 ‘Numbers”  of  the  Opera,  together  with  the  Overture.  The  four 
Song-parts  in  these,  permitted  of  being  well  rendered  by  the 
Female  Court-singers  and  two  Dillettanti  whose  assistance  I 
had  already  obtained  for  the  Court-concerts.  I therefore  had 
the  opera  written  out  with  all  despatch,  practised  it  carefully, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


99 


and  then  played  it  as  Concert -Music  at  one  of  the  Court- 
concerts. 

Great  as  at  first  was  my  satisfaction  with  the  new  work, 
I nevertheless  soon  became  sensible  of  its  deficiencies,  and 
weak  points.  With  every  successive  rehearsal  these  were  made 
more  clear  to  me,  and  even  before  its  production  in  public 
took  place,  the  Opera  (with  the  exception  of  the  Overture  and 
one  aria  for  a tenor- voice)  had  become  distateful  to  me.  Even 
the  great  applause  it  had  met  with  from  those  who  executed 
it,  and  those  who  heard  it,  could  not  reconcile  me  the  more 
to  it;  so  that  I laid  it  aside,  and  with  the  exception  of  the 
two  “Numbers”  mentioned,  I never  played  any  thing  more  of  it  in 
public.  But  with  this  feeling  of  dissatisfaction  with  my  work 
I was  truly  unhappy;  for  I now  thought  to  perceive  that  I 
had  no  talent  for  Operatic  compositions.  There  were,  however, 
two  things  which  I had  forgotten  duly  to  consider;  first,  that 
I had  assumed  a much  too  elevated  style,  for  I had  put  my 
Opera  upon  a par  with  those  of  Mozart,  and  secondly,  that 
I was  wholly  wanting  in  the  practice  and  experience  requisite 
for  this  kind  of  composition.  This  did  not  occur  to  me  till 
some  years  afterwards,  and  encouraged  me  then  to  make 
another  attempt  at  dramatic  composition. 

For  the  present  , I again  devoted  myself  wholly  to  In- 
strumental composition;  wrote  the  already  mentioned  Concer- 
tanti  for  Harp  and  Violin  with  full  orchestra;  a Fantasia 
(op.  35)  and  Variations  (op.  36)  for  Harp-Solo;  and,  for  myself, 
my  Fifth  Violin  Concerto  (op.  17.  published  by  Nageli  of 
Zurich)  and  the  Pot-Pourri  (op.  22,  at  Andre's  in  Offenbach). 

As  Dorette  anticipated  her  confinement  in  the  spring,  it 
was  impossible  we  could  remain  longer  in  the  limited  accom- 
modation of  her  mother’s  house,  and  we  were  now  obliged  to 
furnish  a house  of  our  own.  This  took  place  at  Easter  1807. 

Shortly  after,  on  the  27.  May,  we  were  gladdened  by  the 
birth  of  a little  daughter.  I now  had  to  invite  the  Duke  as 
Godfather  to  the  new-born,  he  having  already  previously 
offered  himself  for  that  post  of  honour.  On  the  day  of  the 

7* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


100 


Christening,  he  made  his  appearance,  in  the  full  splendour 
of  his  Ducal  rank,  accompanied  by  the  dignitaries  of  his 
Court  and  followed  by  the  idlers  of  the  town,  who  attracted 
by  the  grandeur  of  the  rarely  used  state  carriage  and  its 
occupants,  stared  with  astonishment  to  see  it  draw  up  before 
my  house,  at  the  door  of  which  I received  him,  and  conducted 
him  to  the  apartment  decorated  with  garlands  of  flowers. 
The  ceremony  began,  and  the  new-born  was  christened 
Emilie , after  the  Duke’s  second  Name,  Emilius. 

To  my  great  regret,  my  parents  could  not  take  part  in 
this  delightful  family  festival.  And  yet,  in  the  previous 
summer,  when  on  a visit  at  Seesen,  I had  introduced  my  dear 
wife  to  them,  and  had  the  gratification  to  see  not  only  that 
they  soon  evinced  much  affection  for  her,  but  the  satisfaction 
also,  that  my  father  was  obliged  to  admit  I might  not  have 
been  so  happy  with  Rosa , even  had  my  love  for  her  been 
more  lasting. 

As  soon  as  Dorette  had  fully  regained  her  strength,  she 
began  anew  to  practise  the  recently  finished  compositions 
for  the  Harp,  in  order  to  prepare  herself  for  our  projected 
artistic  tour.  But  while  thus  engaged,  she  became  more  and 
more  convinced  of  the  defects  of  the  instrument  she  had 
hitherto  used,  a Strasburg  pedal-harp,  which  she  had  recei- 
ved as  a present  from  the  Dutchess.  It  was  therefore  decided 
in  a family  consultation,  to  apply  a small  capital  appertaining 
to  her  as  inheritance,  to  the  purchase  of  another,  and  a better 
harp.  Herr  Backofen,  had  such  an  instrument,  a very  superior 
one,  by  Nadermann  of  Paris,  and  was  disposed  to  part  with 
it  to  his  pupil  for  a moderate  price.  This,  therefore,  was 
purchased.  Of  Doi'ette's  small  inheritance  there  yet  remained 
a few  hundred  thalers,  to  expend  in  the  acquisition  of  an 
indispensible  convenience  for  travelling,  namely  a travelling- 
carriage,  constructed  at  the  same  time  for  the  transport  of 
the  harp.  For  a considerable  time  I turned  over  in  my 
mind  the  form  of  build  best  adapted  to  this  purpose.  There 
were  two  things  that  required  especial  consideration;  first, 


Digitized  by  Google 


101 


that  it  should  not  be  too  expensive,  and  secondly  that  it 
should  be  sufficiently  light  for  one  pair  of  post-horses.  At 
length  I hit  upon  the  right  plan.  I ordered  a long,  but  not 
too  heavy  Basket- carriage  to  be  built,  with  a chaise  compart- 
ment behind  for  the  travellers.  In  front  of  this  between 
the  basket-sides,  lay  the  box  for  the  harp,  slung  by  leather 
straps,  and  covered  with  a leather  apron,  which  fastened  by 
means  of  a bar  of  iron  hooking  into  the  chaise-seat  in  front 
of  the  occupants.  Under  this  was  a seat-box  to  hold  the 
violin-case,  and  behind  it  a larger  one  to  contain  a trunk  adap- 
ted to  the  space,  in  which  all  the  other  travelling  requisites 
could  be  packed.  In  front,  above  the  harp-box,  was  the 
raised  seat  for  the  driver.  A trial  trip,  for  which  the  car- 
riage was  completely  packed,  shewed  that  it  fully  answered 
the  object  proposed.  Thus,  therefore,  every  thing  was  in 
readiness  for  our  artistic  tour. 

After  a painful  leave-taking  of  our  child,  of  whom  my 
mother-in-law  undertook  the  care,  we  set  out  on  our  journey, 
in  the  middle  of  October.  As  I unfortunately  kept  no  diary 
upon  this  and  our  subsequent  journey  from  Gotha,  I am  left 
wholly  to  my  somewhat  faint  recollections  of  that  period, 
which  have  been  but  sparingly  refreshed  by  a few  notices  in 
the  Leipsic  Musical- Journal.  Of  a diary  kept  by  my  wife  at 
that  period,  but  which  she  never  let  me  see,  I have  neither 
been  able  to  find  anything  since  her  death.  Probably,  it 
was  destroyed  by  her  in  after  years. 

On  the  very  first  day,  our  journey  began  in  a very  omi- 
nous manner,  by  the  overturning  of  our  carriage  at  a place 
between  Erfurt  and  Weimar,  where  there  was  at  that  time  no 
paved  high-road.  Fortunately,  however,  neither  the  travellers 
nor  their  instruments  were  injured,  we  therefore  considered 
ourselves  very  fortunate  to  have  escaped  with  the  fright  only. 
No  such  accident  re-occurred  to  us  on  any  of  our  numerous 
journeys.  In  Weimar,  whither  we  took  letters  of  introduction 
from  the  Dutchess  of  Gotha,  we  played  at  Court  with  great 
applause,  and  received  a munificent  present  from  the  Heridi- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


102 


tary  Grand  Dutchess,  the  Princess  Maria . Among  the  auditory 
at  the  Court-Concert  were  the  two  Poet-heros  Goethe  and 
Wieland . The  latter  seemed  quite  charmed  with  the  play  of 
the  artiste- couple,  and  evinced  it  in  his  own  animated  and 
friendly  manner.  Goethe , also,  addressed  a few  words  of  praise 
to  us  with  a dignified  coldness  of  mien. 

In  Leipsic,  as  I perceive  from  a notice  in  the  Musical- 
Journal,  we  gave  a concert  on  the  27.  October.  The  opinion 
therein  expressed  of  the  compositions  I played  on  that  occa- 
sion, namely  the  Overture  to  the  “Priifung”,  the  Violin- Concerto 
in  Es,  the  first  Concertante  for  Harp  and  Violin,  the  Pot- 
pourri in  B,  and  the  Fantasia  for  the  Harp,  was  very  favor- 
able. As  regards  our  play,  it  says: 

“Respecting  the  play  of  Herr  Spohr , and  his  wife,  we 
have  already  spoken  in  detail,  and  here  alone  add,  that  he 
has  entirely  corrected  himself  of  many  of  the  too  arbitrary 
mannerisms  (in  Time,  and  the  like)  which  he  had  acquired, 
and  of  which  we  had  now  and  then  complained;  and,  without 
a doubt,  as  regards  Tone  and  Expression,  Surety  and  Skill, 
both  in  Allegro  and  in  Adagio  (in  the  latter  more  especially, 
in  our  opinion)  he  now  takes  rank  among  the  foremost  of  all 
living  Violinists:  and  Madame  Spohr , by  her  great  skill,  neat- 
ness and  feeling  in  her  play,  is  certain  to  meet  with  the  most 
distinguished  reception.” 

Of  Dresden,  where  we  also  gave  a Concert  and  also,  if 
I do  not  mistake  this  occasion  for  a later  one  — played  at 
Court  (though  certainly  not  during  dinner,  to  which  neither 
of  us  would  have  consented)  I recollect  nothing  more  parti- 
cular. But  I well  remember  many  circumstances  of  our  stay 
at  Prague.  My  fame  had  not  yet  reached  there,  and  at  first 
I had  many  difficulties  to  contend  with.  These,  however,  were 
forthwith  overcome  when  I and  my  wife  had  played  at  a Soiree 
given  by  the  Princess  Hohenzollern,  and  when  that  lady  de- 
clared herself  our  Patroness.  We  now  immediately  became 
the  fashion,  and  the  beau-motide  came  in  crowds  to  the  two 
concerts  we  gave  in  the  City  so  famed  for  its  cultivation  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


103 


Art.  We  had  therefore  full  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  our  stay 
there.  This  is  also  confirmed  by  a notice  in  the  Musical- 
Journal  beginning  as  follows : “Among  the  strangers  who  have 
given  concerts,  the  third  was  Herr  Spohr,  the  celebrated 
Director  of  Concerts  to  the  Duke  of  Saxe-Gotha.  Herr  Spohr 
performed  on  the  Violin,  as  did  his  wife  on  the  Pedal-Harp. 
It  will  be  long  before  another  artiste  will  have  such  reason  to 
be  satisfied  with  the  reception  he  met  here  as  Herr  Spohr , 
and  of  a certainty  every  friend  of  Art,  will  acknowledge  that 
he  well  deserved  that  distinction ” 

But  in  the  course  of  his  notice,  the  Editor  animadverts 
on  several  points  in  my  Play,  though  this  opinion  would  seem 
to  have  been  a somewhat  isolated  one,  as  in  his  notice  of 
the  concert  given  by  the  brothers  Pixis  which  immediately 
followed  mine,  he  says:  “his  place  has  been  assigned  to  him 
far  bfelow  Spohr  ” and  then  continues:  “as  but  a few  days 
before  people  were  so  charmed  by  the  Play  of  the  latter,  and 
the  opinion  was  expressed  from  that  point  of  view,  it  may  not 
be  considered  altogether  fair.” 

Among  the  friends  of  Art  in  Prague,  I then  made  the 
acquaintance  of  a man  with  whom  up  to  the  time  of  his  death 
I constantly  remained  on  terms  of  the  closest  friendship.  This 
was  Herr  Kleinwachter , the  head  of  the  commercial  firm  of 
Ballabene.  At  his  house,  every  Sunday  forenoon,  a small  but 
select  circle  of  Professionals  and  lovers  of  Art  met  to  play 
and  listen  to  Quartett-music.  Every  foreign  artiste  sought  to 
be  introduced  there,  and  whether  violinist  or  violoncellist  took 
an  active  part  in  them.  I took  a pleasure  in  playing  there; 
for  my  execution  and  my  endeavours  to  give  each  composition 
in  its  appropriate  style  were  fully  appreciated.  One  Sunday 
morning  I was  playing  a Solo-quartett  of  mine  (D-Minor,  op.  11. 
published  by  Simrock)  when  the  master  of  the  house  was 
suddenly  called  away;  but  returning  after  some  time,  announ- 
ced to  the  company,  that  during  the  playing  of  the  Quartett 
a son  had  been  born  to  him ! Among  the  congratulations  of 
those  present  the  wish  was  also  expressed  that  this  harmo- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


104 


nious  greeting  of  the  new  citizen  of  the  world,  would  be  of 
the  most  happy  augery  for  his  future  life,  and  above  all 
things  might  endow  him  with  a taste  for  Music!  With  the  latter, 
he  was  indeed  gifted  in  a high  degree.  Louis  Kleinwachter, 
(in  compliment  to  me  he  was  christened  after  me)  though 
only  as  an  amateur  (his  profession  was  the  law)  be- 
came a distinguished  musician,  as  his  compositions  many  of 
which  have  been  published,  sufficiently  attest.  Whether  it 
was  that  he  had  been  told  he  was  born  during  the  perfor- 
mance of  one  of  Spohr’s  compositions,  and  that,  that  had  awa- 
kened his  predeliction  for  them,  or  whether  it  was  his  diligent 
study  of  them,  there  never  was  a more  enthusiastic  admirer 
of  my  music  than  he.  Whenever  in  the  Musical  Reunions  of 
Prague,  a choice  was  mooted  of  the  Compositions  which  were 
to  be  played,  he  always  strove  for  those  of  Spohr , and  never 
rested  until  he  had  carried  his  point.  For  that  reason,  also, 
he  soon  acquired  the  general  cognomen  of  uthe  mad  Spohrist.” 

It  is  to  be  regretted  that  this  young  man  of  whom 
mention  will  frequently  be  made  in  these  pages,  was  snatched 
from  his  family  by  an  early  death ; he  died  several  years  be- 
fore his  father. 

From  Prague,  the  Artiste-couple  proceeded  to  Munich, 
via  Ratisbonne.  I ho  longer  recollect  whether  I succeeded  in 
getting  up  a Concert  in  the  latter  town.  I could  find  no  no- 
tice of  it.  And  respecting  Munich,  in  a summary  notice  of 
the  Musical- Journal  on  the  winter-season  of  that  year,  it  was 
curtly  remarked  uHerr  Spohr , from  Gotha,  gave  a Concert  and 
met  here  also  with  a warm  approval.”  Of  our  stay  there  I 
have  nevertheless  a tolerable  clear  recollection.  Before  we 
gave  our  concert  in  the  City,  we  played  at  Court.  When  we 
came  forward  to  play  our  Concertante  for  Harp  and  Violin, 
there  was  no  stool  for  Dorette . King  Maximilian  who  sat 
beside  his  Consort  in  the  front  row  of  the  audience,  observed 
it,  and  immediately  brought  his  own  gilded  arm-chair  sur- 
mounted with  the  Royal  Crown,  before  an  attendant  could 
procure  one.  In  his  own  friendly  good-tempered  manner  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


105 


insisted  upon  Dorette  seating  herself  in  it,  and  only  when  I 
explained  to  him  that  the  arms  of  the  chair  would  impede  her 
playing,  he  consented  to  her  taking  the  seat  brought  by  the 
servant. 

When  the  Concert  was  over,  he  presented  us  to  the  Queen 
and  her  Ladies  of  the  Court,  who  discoursed  with  us  in  the 
most  friendly  maimer.  On  the  following  day  the  Royal  Gifts 
were  presented  to  us;  to  me  a diamond  ring,  to  Dorette  a 
tiara  of  brilliants;  both  of  great  value. 

At  our  Public  Concert , we  were  supported  by  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Royal  orchestra  with  the  greatest  good  will.  Herr 
Winter,  the  Director,  led.  I was  delighted  with  the  precision 
and  spirited  execution  of  my  compositions,  and  thought  it  very 
natural  that  they  should  please,  played  in  such  a manner. 
But  it  was  a special  satisfaction  to  me  that  the  Composer  of 
the  “Opferfest”  (the  Festival  of  the  Sacrifice)  assured  me  also 
in  his  candid  and  straight  forward  way,  of  his  full  approval. 
I went  frequently  to  Winter's  house,  and  was  greatly  amused 
with  his  original  character,  which  united  the  most  singular 
contradictions.  Of  a colossal  build , and  gifted  with  the 
strength  of  a giant,  Winter  was  withal  as  timid  as  a hare. 
Readily  excited  to  the  most  violent  rage,  he  nevertheless 
allowed  himself  to  be  led  like  a child.  His  housekeeper  had 
soon  observed  this,  and  tyrannised  over  him  in  a cruel 
manner.  As  an  example  of  this,  he  took  great  pleasure  in 
dressing  up  the  little  images  for  the  Christmas  tree,  on  the  Eve 
of  that  Festival,  and  would  amuse  himself  in  this  way,  by  the 
hour.  But  ill  befel  him  if  the  housekeeper  caught  him  at  it. 
She  would  then  immediately  drive  him  away  from  them,  and 
call  out:  “Must  you  then  be  eternally  at  play?!  Sit  down 
directly  to  the  Pianoforte,  and  get  your  song  ready!” 

The  junior  members  of  the  Royal  orchestra,  whom  he 
took  great  pleasure  in  having  about  him,  and  sometimes  in- 
vited to  dinner,  teazed  him  in  return,  unceasingly.  They  had 
soon  discovered  that  he  had  a great  fear  of  Ghosts,  and  invented 


Digitized  by  foozle 


106 


all  manner  of  tales  of  apparitions  and  ghostly  narratives  to  frighten 
him.  In  the  summer  time  he  frequently  went  to  a public  gar- 
den outside  the  town,  but  as  he  was  timerous  in  the  dark, 
he  always  returned  before  night -fall.  One  day,  the  mis- 
chievous young  folks  contrived  by  various  means  to  delay  his 
return  longer  than  usual,  and  it  was  already  quite  dark  when 
he  set  out  on  his  way  home..  As  the  other  guests  still  re- 
mained quietly  seated,  he  found  the  road  which  lay  between  two 
gloomy  hedge -rows  fearfully  lonely.  Seized  with  a sudden 
terror,  he  unconsciously  began  to  run.  Scarcely  had  he  com- 
menced, than  he  felt  a heavy  load  upon  his  back,  and  he 
beleived  that  it  could  be  nothing  also  but  a Hobgoblin  that 
had  sprung  down  upon  him.  Hearing  other  footsteps  behind 
as  though  running  after  him,  he  thought  the  Devil  and  all 
his  Imps  were  in  full  chase,  and  he  now  ran  still  faster. 
Reeking  with  perspiration  and  panting  for  breath  he  at  length 
reached  the  city  gates;  when  the  goblin  sprung  down  from 
his  back,  and  said  in  a voice  that  he  knew:  “Thank  you  Herr 
Kapellmeister,  for  carrying  me,  for  I was  very  tired!”  This 
speech  was  followed  by  a general  titter,  and  he  whom  they 
had  so  befooled,  burst  into  an  uncontrolable  rage. 

From  Munich,  we  continued  our  journey  to  Stuttgard, 
where  we  took  letters  of  introduction  to  the  Court.  I presen- 
ted these  to  the  Court- Chamberlain,  and  on  the  following  day 
received  from  him  the  assurance  that  we  should  be  permitted 
to  play  at  Court.  But  in  the  meantime  I had  been  informed 
that  here  also  cards  were  played  during  the  Concerts  at 
Court,  and  that  little  attention  was  paid  to  the  Music.  At 
Brunswick  I had  been  already  sufficiently  disgusted  with  such 
a degradation  of  the  Art,  that  I took  the  liberty  to  declare 
to  the  Court- Chamberlain,  that  I and  my  wife  could  alone 
appear,  if  the  King  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  cease  card- 
playing during  our  performance.  Quite  horrified  at  so  bold 
a request,  the  Court-Chamberlain  made  one  step  backward, 
and  exclaimed:  “What?  You  would  prescribe  conditions  to  my 
gracious  Master?  Never  should  I dare  make  such  a proposal 


Digitized  by 


Google 


107 


to  him!”  “Then  must  I renounce  the  honour  of  playing  at 
Court”,  was  my  simple  reply.  And  on  this,  I took  my  leave. 

How  the  Court-Chamberlain  betook  himself  to  lay  so  un- 
heard of  a proposition  before  his  Sovereign,  and  how  the  latter 
prevailed  upon  himself  to  yield  to  it,  I never  learned.  But 
the  result  was,  that  the  Court- Chamberlain  sent  to  inform 
me:  “His  Majesty  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  grant  my 
wish;  but  on  the  condition,  that  the  musical  pieces  which  I 
and  my  wife  would  play,  should  follow  in  quick  succession, 
so  that  His  Majesty  would  not  be  too  frequently  inconve- 
nienced.” 

And  so  it  occurred.  After  the  Court  had  taken  their 
seats  at  the  card-table,  the  Concert  began  with  an  Overture? 
which  was  followed  by  an  aria.  During  this,  the  lacqueys 
moved  to  and  fro  with  much  noise,  to  offer  refreshments, 
and  the  card-players  called  out:  “I  play,  I pass”  so  loud, 
that  one  could  hear  nothing  connectedly  of  the  music  and  the 
singing.  The  Court- Chamberlain  now  came  to  inform  me  that 
I should  hold  myself  ready.  Upon  this,  he  announced  to  the 
King , that  the  strangers  would  begin  their  performances. 
Presently,  His  Majesty  rose  from  his  chair,  and  with  him  all 
the  company.  The  servants  placed  two  rows  of  stools  in  front 
of  the  orchestra,  upon  which  the  Court  seated  themselves. 
Our  play  was  listened  to  in  the  greatest  silence,  and  with 
interest;  but  no  one  dared  utter  a syllable  of  approval,  as 
the  King  had  not  given  the  lead  The  interest  he  took  in  the 
performances  was  shewn  only  at  the  close  of  each  by  a gra- 
cious nod  of  the  head,  and  scarcely  were  they  over,  than  all 
hastened  back  to  the  card-tables,  and  the  former  noise  be- 
gan anew. 

During  the  remainder  of  the  Concert,  I had  leisure  to  look 
about  me.  My  attention  was  particulary  directed  to  the  King’s 
card-table,  in  which  in  order  to  accommodate  itself  better  to 
his  Majesty’s  obesity,  a semi-circular  place  had  been  cut  out, 
into  which  the  King’s  belly  fitted  closely.  The  great  size  of 
the  latter,  and  the  little  extent  of  the  Kingdom,  gave  rise  as 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


108 


is  well  known  to  the  smart  caricature  in  which  the  King  in 
his  Coronation-robes,  with  the  map  of  his  Kingdom  fastened 
to  the  button  of  his  knee  breeches,  is  represented  as  uttering 
the  words:  “I  cannot  see  over  all  my  States!” 

As  soon  as  the  King  had  finished  his  game,  and  moved 
back  his  stool,  the  Concert  was  broken  off  in  the  middle  of 
an  aria  by  Madame  Graff \ so  that  the  last  notes  of  a cadence 
actually  stuck  in  her  throat.  The  musicians  accustomed  to 
this  vandalism,  packed  their  instruments  quietly  in  their  cases; 
but  I was  deeply  exasperated  at  such  an  insult  to  the  Art, 

At  that  time,  Wiirtemberg  groaned  under  a despotism 
such  as  indeed  the  rest  of  Germany  had  never  known.  To 
cite  only  a few  examples  of  this,  it  suffices  to  say:  that  rain 
or  snow,  every  one  who  entered  the  Palace- Court  at  Stuttgard 
was  compelled  to  walk  hat  in  hand  from  the  irongates  to  the 
portal  of  the  palace,  because  his  Majesty’s  apartments  were  on 
that  side.  Every  civilian  was  furthermore  obliged  by  the  most 
imperative  order  to  take  off  his  hat  before  the  sentry,  who 
was  not  required  to  salute  him  in  return.  In  the  theatre,  it 
was  strictly  forbidden  by  notices  to  that  effect,  to  applaud 
with  the  hands  before  the  King  had  commenced.  But  his 
Majesty  on  account  of  the  extreme  cold  of  the  winter  sat  with 
his  hands  buried  in  a large  muff,  and  only  took  them  out 
when  his  Royalty  was  graciously  pleased  to  feel  the  want  of 
a pinch  of  snuff.  When  that  was  done,  it  little  mattered  what 
was  going  on  upon  the  stage,  he  then  clapped  his  hands. 
Upon  this  the  Chamberlain  who  stood  behind  the  King,  imme- 
diately joined  in,  and  thereby  gave  notice  to  the  loyal  people, 
that  they  might  also  give  vent  to  their  approbation.  In  this 
manner  the  most  interesting  scenes  and  the  best  pieces  of 
music  of  the  opera  were  almost  always  disturbed,  and  inter- 
rupted by  a horrid  noise. 

As  the  citizens  of  Stuttgard  had  long  learned  to  accommo- 
date themselves  to  the  Royal  humours,  they  were  not  a little 
astonished  at  what  I had  stipulated  for  before  my  appearance 
at  the  Court-concert,  and  had  actually  granted  to  me.  This 


Digitized  by 


Google 


109 


made  me  the  object  of  public  attention,  and  the  result  was, 
that  my  concert  in  the  town  was  attended  by  an  unusually 
numerous  auditory.  The  Royal  orchestra  gaye  me  their  sup- 
port in  the  most  friendly  manner,  and  the  Director  D<mzi  en- 
deavoured to  facilitate  the  whole  arrangements  for  me  in  every 
possible  way. 

Danzi  was  a most  amiable  artiste,  and  I felt  the  more  in- 
clined towards  him,  from  finding  he  had  the  same  admiration 
for  Mozart , that  I was  so  deeply  impressed  with.  Mo- 
zart, and  his  works,  were  the  inexhaustible  subjects  of  our 
conversation,  and  I still  possess  a most  cherished  memorial 
of  that  time,  a four-handed  arrangement  of  Mozart's  Symphony 
in  G-Minor,  composed  by  Danzi , and  in  his  own  handwriting. 

In  Stuttgard  I also  first  made  the  acquaintance  of  the 
since  so  greatly  famed  Carl  Maria  von  Weber , with  whom  up 
to  the  time  of  his  death  I was  always  on  the  most  friendly 
terms.  Weber  was  then  Secretary  to  one  of  the  Princes  of 
Wiirtemberg  and  cultivated  the  Art  as  an  amateur  only.  This 
however,  did  not  hinder  him  from  composing  with  great  assidu- 
ity, and  I still  well  remember  hearing  at  his  house,  as  a 
sample  of  Weber's  works  some  “Numbers’’  from  the  Opera  uDer 
Beherrscher  der  Geister."  (The  Ruler  of  the  Spirits.)  But 
these,  from  being  always  accustomed  to  take  Mozart  as  the 
type  and  rule  by  which  to  measure  all  dramatic  works, 
appeared  to  me  so  unimportant  and  amateur-like,  that  I had 
not  the  most  distant  idea  Weber  would  ever  succeed  in  attract- 
ing notice  with  any  opera. 

Of  the  Concerts  which  we  gave  besides,  in  Heidelberg  and 
Frankfort  on  the  Mayne,  before  our  return  home,  I can  now 
speak  but  imperfectly  from  memory  — I therefore  give  a few 
extracts  from  the  notices  of  the  Musical- Journal. 

First  of  all  speaking  of  Heidelberg,  it  says:  “Eisenmenger's 
violin  would  still  have  been  unforgotten,  had  not  the  Heidel- 
bergers  had  the  pleasure  in  the  last  Concert  to  hear  Louis  Spohr 
play  in  his  Rode- like  style  of  firm,  sustained  and  skillful  bow- 
stroke.  His  wife  played  the  harp,  in  a way  one  seldom  hears 


Digitized  by 


Google 


110 


in  Germany  — with  a tenderness,  lightness  and  grace,  with 
a confidence,  strength,  and  expression,  that  are  quite  cap- 
tivating.” 

To  me  it  seems  very  strange,  that  even  at  this  time  my 
play  was  still  designated  as  a Rode- like  style , for  at  that 
period  at  least  I thought  to  have  wholly  laid  aside  his  manner. 
Perhaps  it  arose  merely,  from  the  circumstance,  that,  on 
account  of  the  easier  accompaniment,  I had  selected  a Concerto 
of  Rode's  for  execution. 

Respecting  the  Concert  in  Frankfort  on  the  28.  March, 
the  remarks  were  also  very  eulogistic.  The  Frankfort  Journal 
spoke  of  the  “wellmerited,  and  distinguished  applause”  that 
we  met  with,  and  reverted  to  a uin  many  respects  similar 
Pair,  who  five  and  twenty  or  thirty  years  before  made  much 
Bensation  in  Mannheim,  and  afterwards  in  London  — to  Wilhelm 
Kramer , the  great  Violinist  and  his  wife,  the  splendid  Harpiste”. 

On  my  return  to  Gotha  I was  met  at  some  miles  from 
the  town  by  my  pupils,  some  of  whom  had  remained  there 
during  my  absence,  and  others  but  shortly  returned,  and  es- 
corted by  them  as  in  triumph  to  my  tastefully  decorated 
dwelling.  We  there  found  Derette's  parents  and  relatives 
all  assembled  to  welcome  us , and  also  our  dear  child , who 
under  her  grandmother’s  excellent  care  was  in  blooming  health. 
As  on  our  tour  we  had  not  only  earned  a rich  harvest  of 
applause,  but  had  saved  a sum  of  money  which  for  our  circum- 
stances was  considerable,  we  now  felt  on  our  return  to  our 
domestic  hearth  right  happy  and  free  from  care. 

As  soon  as  I had  resumed  the  Direction  of  the  Court- 
concerts,  I felt  impelled  so  set  to  work  at  new  compositions. 
I first  wrote  a Potpourri  for  the  violin  with  orchestral  accom- 
paniment (Op.  23,  published  by  AndrS  of  Offenbach)  which 
had  already  suggested  itself  to  me  during  the  journey,  and  for 
the  most  part  in  the  carriage.  I was  very  desirous  to  see 
on  paper  what  I there  thought  a very  artistic  combination 
of  two  Themes  in  one  and  the  same;  but  still  more  desirous 
to  hear  it  executed  by  an  orchestra.  This  Potpourri  begins 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


Ill 


with  a lively,  and  for  the  solo,  brilliant  Allegro  in  G-Major, 
connected  with  and  passing  into  the  Theme  from  the  l‘Ent- 
fuhrung”:  “Wer  ein  Liebchen  hat  gef unden”  in  G-Minor.  After 
this  has  been  varied  five  times  alternately  in  the  Minor  and 
Major,  it  is  taken  up  in  sixth  Variation  by  the  wind-instruments, 
and  for  a time  carried  out  in  free-fugued  Entries.  On  the 
return  into  the  pricipal  key,  the  first  horn  takes  up  the 
melody  of  the  song  in  the  Major  and  carries  it  out  comple- 
tely to  the  end.  This  is  then  succeeded  anew  in  a very  start- 
ling manner  by  the  introductory  Allegro  of  the  primo,  blend- 
ing with  it  as  it  were  in  the  style  of  a Fantasia,  though 
it  previously  appeared  as  an  independant  piece  of  Music. 

With  the  working  of  this  combination  at  the  Rehearsal. 
I was  very  satisfied;  but  when  the  Potpourri  was  executed  at 
the  Court-Concert,  I was  doomed  to  see  my  ingenious  combi- 
nation of  the  two  themes  was  noticed  by  a few  musicians 
only,  and  was  totally  lost  upon  the  rest  of  the  hearers. 

The  next  that  I wrote,  was  the  Concertante  for  two 
Violins  (Op.  48,  published  by  Peters  in  Leipsic).  I was  promp- 
ted to  this  chiefly  by  the  artistic  genius  of  one  of  my  pupils 
one  Herr  Hildebrandt  of  Rathenow,  with  whom  I was  very 
fond  of  playing.  This  young  man  had  made  so  much  progress 
under  my  guidance  in  twelve  months,  that  he  promised  to 
become  one  of  the  first  violinists  of  Germany.  Unfortunately, 
at  a later  period,  by  what  mischance  I now  no  longer 
remember,  a wound  which  he  received  in  his  left  hand  became 
a bar  to  the  full  development  of  his  talent,  so  that  he  did 
not  become  so  known  in  tbe  Musical  world,  as  was  previously 
to  have  been  expected.  This  pupil  had  acquired  to  such  a 
degree  his  instructor’s  method  of  execution  in  all  its  shadings, 
that  he  might  have  been  considered  a true  copy  of  him.  Our 
play  blended  therefore  so  intimately,  that,  without  looking  at 
us,  no  one  could  tell  by  the  ear  which  of  us  played  the  upper 
or  which  the  lower  key.  In  this  manner  we  had  prac- 
tised the  new  Concertante,  before  we  executed  it  at  the  Court- 
concert.  We  achieved,  also,  such  success  with  it,  that  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


112 


Dutchess  requested  its  repetition  in  the  next  concert,  and  after- 
wards, insisted,  also,  as  long  as  Hildebrandt  remained  in  Gotha 
to  have  it  put  in  the  programme  when  strangers  were  on  visit 
at  Court. 

As  my  pupils  at  that  time  were  of  much  the  same  age  as 
myself,  and  were  young  people  of  good  breeding  and  inspired 
with  a love  of  their  Art;  I liked  to  have  them  about  me,  and 
took  great  pleasure  in  permitting  them  to  accompany  me  in 
my  walks  and  little  excursions  in  the  neighbourhood.  I used 
then  to  join  in  all  their  amusements,  played  at  ball  and  other 
games  with  them,  and  taught  them  to  swim.  Yes,  perhaps  I 
was  even  somewhat  more  en  camerade  with  them  than  beseem- 
ed the  dignity  of  the  Instructor  with  his  pupils.  But  my 
authority  suffered  no  diminution  on  that  account;  for  I knew 
not  only  how  to  maintain  a strict  discipline  during  the  hours 
of  tuition,  but  also  at  other  times,  a becoming  behaviour. 

In  this  manner,  I had  already  made  a longer  excursion 
in  the  spring,  to  Liebenstein,  and  up  the  Inselsberg,  and  re- 
turned from  that  journey  so  pleased,  that  I longed  once  more 
to  make  a similar  excursion  to  the  Harz,  which  I so  loved. 
Quite  unexpectedly,  a temporary  absence  of  the  Dutchess, 
through  which  some  Court-concerts  were  suspended , fur- 
nished the  necessary  leave  of  absence.  I therefore,  immediately, 
proposed  to  my  pupils,  a pedestrian  journey  to  the  Harz, 
which  they  welcomed  with  the  most  joyful  assent.  As  our 
absence  would  of  a necessity  extend  to  a fortnight,  the  lessons 
could  not  be  suspended  for  so  long  a time  without  great  pre- 
judice to  the  pupils,  and  I therefore  determined  to  continue 
them  on  the  journey.  For  this  purpose  I took  two  violins 
with  me,  with  which  the  orchestra-servant  Schramm,  yet  a 
young  man,  and  greatly  attached  to  me  was  loaded,  while  we 
carried  all  the  other  necessaries  distributed  in  two  knapsacks, 
each  in  his  turn.  Before  our  caravan  could  set  out,  I had 
yet  to  console  my  wife,  who  could  not  make  up  her  mind  to 
so  long  a separation,  the  first  since  our  marriage,  and  who 
shed,  indeed,  a torrent  of  tears.  Not  until  I had  promised  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


113 


write  to  her  every  other  day,  could  she  be  somewhat  pacified, 
and  it  was  long  before  she  let  me  from  her  arms.  To  me, 
also,  this  first  separation  was  no  less  extremely  painfull 

How  far  we  went  the  first  day  and  where  we  stopped 
the  following  night,  I no  longer  remember;  but  I still  know 
well,  that  at  every  rest  after  dinner,  I gave  two  of  my  pupils 
regular  instruction,  and  required  of  them  a punctual  alternate 
practise  of  the  lesson  in  the  evening,  as  soon  as  we  reached 
our  quarters  for  the  night.  In  this  way,  on  the  third  or  fourth 
day,  (the  heat  was  intense,)  we  arrived  about  a league  from 
Nordhausen,  and  very  tired  sat  down  to  rest  ourselves  under 
the  shade  of  an  oak  by  the  side  of  a large  pond,  when  by  an 
unlucky  accident  one  of  our  knapsacks  rolled  down  the  steep 
bank  and  fell  into  the  water  — and  so  far  from  the  bank, 
also,  that  we  could  not  reach  it  with  our  walking  sticks.  As 
the  water  was  deep,  I was  soon  obliged  as  the  only  practised 
swimmer  of  the  party,  to  make  up  my  mind  to  jump  in  and 
fetch  it  out.  But  before  I could  get  my  clothes  off,  the  knap- 
sack had  taken  in  so  much  water,  that  it  began  to  sink.  I 
was  therefore  obliged  to  dive  at  the  place  where  it  had  dis- 
appeared until  I succeeded  in  recovering  it.  When  I brought 
it  to  the  bank,  and  it  was  opened,  I found  its  contents  so  sa- 
turated with  water,  that  we  were  obliged  to  spread  them  on 
the  grass  in  the  sun  to  dry  them.  As  it  was  to  be  antici- 
pated this  would  be  an  \ operation  of  several  hours,  and  noon 
was  drawing  near  with  its  attendant  hunger,  I resolved  to 
take  our  customary  dinner-rest  in  this  place,  and  to  send  to 
Nordhausen  to  procure  the  necessary  provisions.  The  purchase 
of  these  fell  by  lot  to  one  of  the  pupils,  and  Schramm  accom- 
panied him  to  carry  them.  Meanwhile,  I gave  my  two  lessons 
unter  the  great  oak,  and  those  pupils  who  were  not  engaged 
therein,  bathed  themselves  at  a more  shallow  part  of  the 
pond.  After  the  lapse  of  two  hours,  our  foragers  returned 
heavily  laden,  and  under  the  shadow  of  the  dear  oak,  which 
served  us  with  equal  hospitality  as  a Dining-  o®  Concert- 
room  , a capital-dinner  was  soon  spread  and  despatched 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  L 3 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


114 


in  the  merriest  humour,  and  with  the  best  appetite.  Then 
resounded  in  joyous  harmony  the  tones  of  four  male-voices,  in 
choice  four-part  glees  of  which  we  carried  with  us  a good 
collection,  and  had  also  well-practised  them.  After  this,  our 
properties  which  were  once  more  dry,  were  packed  up,  and 
our  troop  set  itself  again  in  motion. 

After  this  merry  fashion  we  visited  every  remarkable  spot 
of  the  lower  Harz,  and  then  climbed  the  “Brocken.”  When 
we  got  to  the  top,  that  which  occurs  to  nine  tenths  of  all  tra- 
vellers, befel  us  also;  we  found  it  envelloped  in  mist,  and 
waited  in  vain  until  noon,  in  the  hope  that  it  would  clear 
off  and  enable  us  to  enjoy  the  view  from  the  summit.  We 
endeavoured  to  dispel  as  much  of  our  disappointment  as  we 
could  by  singing,  playing  and  looking  through  the  pages  of 
the  many  tomed  “Book  of  the  Brocken”;  indeed,  one  of  the 
party  put  our  Jeremiade  on  this  misfortune  into  really  decent 
rhyme,  which  I immediately  converted  into  a Canon  for  three 
voices.  This  was  diligently  practised,  sung  both  within  the 
“Brockenhause”  and  outside  in  the  mist,  and  then  written  to- 
gether with  our  names  in  the  Brocken-Book,  in  the  hope  that 
at  length  the  weather  would  clear  up.*  But  in  vain!  We 
were  obliged  to  make  up  our  minds  to  continue  our  journey. 

We  now  took  the  direction  of  Clausthal,  and  when  we 
reached  the  plain,  we  had  the  mortification  to  see  the  sum- 
mit of  the  Brocken,  after  we  had  left  it  about  one  hour,  lit 
up  with  the  brightest  sunshine!  — Arrived  at  Clausthal;  our 
first  care  was  to  get  rid  of  the  unseemly  growth  of  beard 
that  had  accrued  to  all  during  our  journey,  so  as  to  reassume 
a somewhat  more  civilized  appearance.  We  sent,  therefore, 
for  a barber,  and  submitted  ourselves  one  after  the  other  to 
his  razor.  A somewhat  comical  incident  arose  out  of  this 
operation.  We  had  all  of  us  more  or  less,  a sore  place  under 
the  chin  from  holding  the  violin,  and  I who  first  sat  down, 

* This  Canon  was  found  among  Spohr’s  manuscripts,  and  a fac-si- 
mile  is  appended  to  this  volume. 


Digitized  by  Google 


115 


directed  the  barber’s  attention  to  this,  and  begged  him  to  go 
over  it  very  lightly  with  his  razor.  As  the  barber  found  a 
similar  sore  place  under  the  chin  of  each  that  followed,  his 
countenance  assumed  more  and  more  the  grotesque  expression 
exhibited  in  the  disposition  to  whistle  and  smile  at  one  and 
the  same  time,  murmuring  every  now  and  then  something,  in- 
wardly. Upon  being  asked  the  reason,  he  replied  with  a 
grave  look:  “Gentlemen,  I see  very  clearly  that  you  all  belong 
to  a secret  Society,  and  you  all  carry  the  sign.  You  are 
Freemasons,  probably,  and  I am  right  glad  that  I know  at 
last  how  that  is  to  be  discovered  1”  As  upon  this  we  all  broke 
out  into  a loud  peal  of  laughter,  he  was  at  first  very  much 
disconcerted,  but,  nevertheless,  not  to  be  shaken  in  his  belief. 

After  we  had  descended  into  a mine,  and  visited  the 
smelting-huts  and  stamping-works,  we  continued  our  journey 
to  Seesen,  by  way  of  Wildemann.  There,  we  were  joyfully 
welcomed  by  my  parents  and  brothers  and  sister  as  well 
as  by  the  musical  friends  of  the  little  town.  We  had  music 
now  from  morning  to  night,  and  even  got  up  a Public  concert, 
in  which  all  exhibited  our  skill  to  the  utmost  in  playing  and 
singing.  The  proceeds  of  the  concert,  we  presented  to  the 
School  for  the  Poor,  for  the  purchase  of  new  schoolbooks. 

Highly  pleased  with  our  journey  we  returned  through 
Gottingen  and  Muhlhausen  to  Gotha.  I yet  think  with  emo- 
tion on  the  intense  pleasure,  with  which  my  dear  little  wife 
welcomed  me  home,  and  never  did  I feel  more  acutely,  the 
happiness  of  being  loved ! 

At  this  period,  a young  Poet,  a Candidate  in  Theology, 
who  was  awaiting  his  appointment  in  Gotha,  offered  to  me 
an  Opera  he  had  written,  to  set  to  music,  and  I seized  this 
opportunity  with  pleasure,  to  try  my  hand,  and  as  I hoped 
with  more  success,  in  dramatic  composition.  The  Name  of 
the  Opera  was  “Alruna,  die  Eulenkonigin ” (the  Owlet-Queen) 
it  was  founded  on  a popular  tradition,  and  in  matter  had 
much  resemblance  to  the  “Donauweibchen” , (the  Danube 
Water-Nymph)  which  at  that  time  excited  general  admiration. 

8* 


Digitized  by  Google 


116 


I immediately  commenced  my  work  with  great  zeal , and 
finished  the  three  Acts  of  the  Opera  before  the  end  of  the 
year.  As  some  of  the  “Numbers”  which  I played  at  the 
Court-concerts  found  great  favour,  I was  encouraged  by  this 
to  offer  my  work  for  representation  at  the  Court- Theatre  in 
Weimar.  I went  thither  in  person  to  obtain  a favourable 
reception  of  it  from  Herr  von  Goethe,  the  Intendant  of  the 
Theatre,  and  Frau  von  Heigendorf,  the  prima  Donna  and  the 
mistress  of  the  Duke.  To  the  former  I handed  the  Libretto, 
to  the  latter  the  Music  of  the  Opera.  As  she  found  some 
brilliant  parts  for  herself  and  her  favorite  Stromeyer,  she 
promised  to  interest  herself  in  getting  the  Opera  accepted, 
and  as  I knew  that  this  depended  solely  upon  her,  I retur- 
ned to  Gotha  with  the  most  sanguine  hopes.  Yet  it  required 
many  reminiscences  from  me,  and  month  alter  month  passed 
away,  until  at  length  the  study  of  the  Opera  was  commenced. 
As  tliis  had  now  gone  so  far  that  a grand  orchestral  rehearsal 
could  be  effected,  Frau  von  Heigendorf  invited  me  to  direct 
it.  1 therefore  proceeded  to  Weimar  a second  time,  and  now 
in  company  with  the  author. 

As  I had  written  all  manner  of  new  things  after  1 had 
completed  the  Opera,  it  had  somewhat  faded  from  my  re- 
collection, and  I therefore  thought  I should  be  the  better 
able  to  judge  of  it  without  partiality.  Accordingly  I was 
greatly  preoccupied  with  the  impression  that  it  would  make 
upon  me.  — The  Rehearsal  took  place  in  a Saloon  at  the 
house  of  Frau  von  Heigendorf.  Among  the  assembled  Auditory, 
besides  the  Intendant  Herr  von  Goethe,  and  the  Musical  Ama- 
teurs of  the  Town,  Wieland  was  also  present.  The  Singers 
had  well  studied  their  parts ; and  as  the  orchestra  had  already 
had  one  rehearsal,  the  Opera  was  right  well  executed  under 
my  direction.  It  gave  general  satisfaction,  and  the  Composer 
was  overwhelmed  with  congratulations.  Herr  von  Goethe,  aho 
spoke  in  praise  of  it.  The  Author  did  not  come  off  so  well. 
Goethe  found  all  manner  of  defects  in  the  Libretto,  and  espe- 
cially required  that  the  dialogue  which  was  written  in  Iam- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


w 


— 117  — 

bics  should  first  be  put  into  simple  prose,  and  considerably 
curtailed  before  the  Opera  was  performed-  This  requisition 
was  particularly  painful  to  the  Author,  as  he  prided  himself 
not  a little  on  his  metrical  dialogue.  He  nevertheless  decla- 
red to  me  his  readiness  to  undertake  the  required  alteration, 
but  on  account  of  other  pressing  work,  he  could  not  set  about 
it  immediately.  This  was  not  displeasing  to  me,  for  with  the 
exception  of  a few  of  the  “Numbers”,  my  Music  at  the  rehearsal 
in  Weimar  had  not  satisfied  me,  greatly  as  it  had  pleased  there, 
•and  I was  again  tortured  with  the  thought,  that  1 had  no  talent 
for  Dramatic  music.  For  this  reason  the  Opera  became  more  and 
mort  indifferent  to  me,  and  I was  glad  to  see  that  its  represen- 
tation would  be  delayed.  At  length  the  thought  of  seeing  it  re- 
presented and  thus  made  public  was  so  distasteful  to  me,  that  I 
withdrew  the  parts  and  score.  Hence  with  the  exception  of  the 
Overture  which  was  published  as  Op.  21  by  Andre  in  Offenbach, 
nothing  else  of  it  was  engraved.  But  on  the  other  hand,  I was 
unjust  towards  this  work;  for  it  shews,  compared  with  the 
first  Opera,  an  unmistakably  great  progress  in  dramatic  style. 

In  the  year  1808,  took  place  the  celebrated  Congress  of 
Sovereigns,  on  which  occasion,  Napoleon  entertained  his  friend 
the  Emperor  Alexander , and  the  Kings  and  Princes  of  Germany 
his  Allies.  The  lovers  of  sights  and  the  curious  of  the  whole 
country  round,  poured  in  to  behold  the  magnificence  which 
was  there  displayed.  In  the  company  of  some  of  my  pupils 
I also  made  a pedestrian  excursion  to  Erfurt,  less  to  see  the 
Great  Ones  of  the  earth,  than  to  see  and  admire  the  great 
ones  of  the  French  Stage,  Talma , and  Mars.  The  Emperor 
had  sent  to  Paris  for  his  tragic  performers,  and  every  evening 
one  of  the  classic  works  of  Corneille  or  Racine  was  played. 
I and  my  companions  had  hoped  to  have  been  permitted  to 
see  one  such  representation,  but  unfortunately,  I was  informed 
that  they  took  place  for  the  Sovereigns  and  their  suite  only, 
and  that  every  body  else  was  excluded  from  them.  I now 
hoped,  with  the  assistance  of  the  musicians,  to  obtain  places 
in  the  orchestra;  but  in  this  I also  failed,  for  they  had  been 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


118 


strictly  forbidden  to  take  any  person  in  with  them.  At  length 
it  occurred  to  me,  that  I and  my  three  pupils,  by  taking  the 
places  of  the  same  number  of  musicians  who  played  between 
the  acts,  might  then  be  enabled  to  remain  during  the  per- 
formance. As  we  were  willing  to  pay  handsomely,  and  the 
musicians  knew  that  their  substitutes  would  fill  their  places  in 
a satisfactory  manner,  they  gave  their  consent.  But,  now  a 
new  difficulty  presented  itself:  three  of  us  only  could  be  in- 
troduced for  the  violins  and  the  bass-viol;  and  as  neither  of 
us  played  any  other  orchestral-instrument  but  those,  one  of 
us  of  a necessity  must  remain  excluded.  The  thought  then 
struck  me,  to  try  whether  I could  learn  sufficient  of  the  horn, 
by  the  evening,  so  as  to  be  able  to  undertake  the  part  of  the 
second  hornist.  I immediately  prevailed  upon  him  whose 
place  I wished  to  take,  to  yield  his  horn  to  me;  and  began 
my  studies.  At  first  I produced  the  most  terrific  tones  from 
it;  but  after  about  an  hour,  I succeeded  in  bringing  out  the 
natural  notes  of  the  instrument.  After  dinner,  while  my  pu- 
pils went  to  walk,  I recommenced  my  studies  in  the  house  of 
the  “Stadt-Musicus”*  and  although  my  lips  pained  me  very 
much,  yet  I did  not  rest  until  I could  play  my  horn-part, 
perfectly,  in  the  certainly,  very  easy  overture  and  “between 
acts”  which  were  to  be  played  in  the  evening. 

Thus  prepared,  I and  my  pupils  joined  the  other  Musi- 
cians, and  as  each  carried  his  instrument  under  his  arm,  we 
reached  our  places  without  opposition.  We  found  the  saloon 
in  which  the  theatre  had  been  erected,  already  brilliantly  lit 
up,  and  filled  with  the  numerous  suite  of  the  Sovereigns.  The 
seats  for  Napoleon  and  his  guests  were  close  behind  the  or- 
chestra. Shortly  after  the  most  able  of  my  pupils  to  whom 
I had  assigned  the  direction  of  the  music,  and  under  whose 
leadership  I placed  myself  as  a new  fledged  hornist,  had 
tuned  up  the  orchestra;  the  high  personages  made  their  ap- 
pearance, and  the  overture  began.  The  orchestra  with  their 
faces  turned  towards  the  stage,  stood  in  a long  row,  and 

* Musician  to  the  Corporation. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


119 


each  was  strictly  forbidden  to  turn  round  and  look  with  cu- 
riosity at  the  Sovereigns.  As  I had  received  notice  of  this 
beforehand,  I had  provided  myself  'secretly  with  a small 
looking-glass,  by  the  help  of  which  as  soon  as  the  music  was 
ended,  I was  enabled  to  obtain  in  succession  a good  view  of 
those  who  directed  the  destinies  of  Europe.  Nevertheless,  I 
was  soon  so  entirely  engrossed  with  the  magnificent  acting  of 
the  tragic  artistes,  that  I abandoned  my  looking-glass  to  my 
pupils,  and  directed  my  whole  attention  to  the  stage.  — But 
at  every  succeeding  “entre-acte”,  the  pain  of  my  lips  increa- 
sed, and  at  the  close  of  the  performance,  they  had  become  so 
much  swollen  and  so  blistered,  that  in  the  evening,  I could 
scarcely  eat  any  supper.  Even  the  next  day,  on  my  return  to 
Gotha,  they  had  a very  negro-like  appearance,  and  my  young 
wife  was  not  a little  alarmed  when  she  saw  me;  but  she 
was  yet  more  nettled,  when  in  a jesting  tone  I said:  that  it 
was  from  kissing  to  such  excess  the  pretty  Erfurt- women! 
When,  however,  I had  related  to  her  the  history  of  my  stu- 
dies on  the  horn,  she  laughed  heartily  at  my  expense. 

About  that  time,  though  I do  not  exactly  remember 
whether  it  was  on  that  journey  to  Erfurt,  or  upon  a previous 
one,  the  Emperor  Napoleon  slept  also  once  in  the  palace 
at  Gotha,  and  on  that  account  a Court-concert  had  been 
commanded  the  previous  evening.  I and  my  wife  had  the 
honour  to  play  before  the  allpowerful  man,  and  he  addressed 
a few  words  to  us.  On  the  following  evening  also,  we  received 
our  share  of  the  “Gold  Napoleons”  which  he  had  left  as  a 
present  to  the  Court-orchestra. 

The  Duke  of  Gotha  was  at  that  time  high  in  his  favour, 
and  therefrom  great  advantages  were  expected  for  the  Duchy. 
But  he  must  have  lost  it  afterwards  by  some  neglect;  for 
when  the  Emperor  passed  through  on  a subsequent  journey, 
a scene  occurred  that  filled  the  inhabitants  of  Gotha  with 
bitter  rage  against  the  tyrant.  The  Emperor  was  expected 
about  11  o’clock.  A breakfast  had  therefore  been  prepared 
in  the  palace  at  Friedrichsthal,  the  summer-residence  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


120 


Court,  and  the  whole  Court-circle  was  assembled  in  state- 
costume.  The  posthorses  ready  harnessed  were  waiting  in  the 
palace- square,  to  take  the  Emperor  immediately  after  break- 
fast upon  his  farther  journey.  — At  length,  the  first  gun  of 
the  salute  resounded  above  on  the  Friedenstein,  from  whence 
every  time  the  Emperor  passed  through,  101  guns  were  fired. 
Shortly  afterwards,  his  carriage  drove  up.  The  Duke,  sur- 
rounded by  his  Court,  already  stood  with  uncovered  head  at 
the  iron  gates,  approached  the  carriage  with  humble  demea- 
nour, and  begged  that  his  Imperial  Majesty  would  deign  to 
take  breakfast.  An  abrupt  non!  and  the  order  to  his  Mame- 
lucks  to  put  to  the  horses,  was  the  reply.  Without  condes- 
cending any  further  word  or  look  to  the  Duke,  he  leaned  back 
in  the  carriage  and  left  the  Prince  standing  at  the  closed 
door  in  the  most  painful  perplexity.  The  Duke  turned  pale 
with  inward  rage  to  see  himself  so  insulted  in  the  presence 
of  his  Court  and  People,  and  yet,  had  not  the  courage  to 
return  immediately  to  the  palace.  Thus  passed  in  a dead 
silence,  five  or  six  fearfully  long  minutes,  until  the  horses 
were  put  to.  At  the  first  forward  movement  they  made,  the 
Emperor’s  head  was  once  more  visible,  and  with  a cold  nod, 
he  drove  off.  The  Duke,  as  though  annihilated,  returned  to 
the  palace,  and  the  citizens  loudly  expressed  their  rage,  that 
the  overbearing  Corsican  should  have  so  insulted  their  Prince. 

On  the  6.  November,  1808,  my  wife  presented  me  with  a 
second  daughter,  who  was  named  /da,  after  my  wife’s  step- 
sister Madame  Hildt,  who  held  her  over  the  font.  Her  con- 
finement passed  over  as  lightly  and  happily  as  the  former 
one,  and  during  the  first  days  the  health  of  the  invalid  was 
excellent.  This,  however,  induced  her  to  leave  her  bed  too 
soon , whereby  she  caught  cold , and  the  sad  consequences 
were,  that  she  was  seized  with  a violent  nervous  fever.  For 
several  days  her  life  was  in  imminent  danger.  I left  her 
neither  by  day  nor  night,  for  she  would  receive  attention  from 
no  one  but  me.  What  I suffered  at  the  side  of  her  sick-bed 
is  indiscribable ! Alarmed  by  her  fits  of  delirium,  by  the  grave 


Digitized  by 


Google 


121 


countenance  of  the  physician,  who  shunned  my  interrogatories,  and 
tortured  with  self-reproaches  for  not  having  taken  more  care  of 
her,  I had  not  a moment’s  rest  during  Dorette's  illness.  At  length 
the  more  cheerful  expression  of  the  physician’s  face  betokened 
that  the  danger  was  passed,  and  I,  who  during  the  last  days, 
first  became  really  sensible  of  all  I possessed  in  my  wife,  and  of 
the  intense  love  I bore  her,  now  felt  unspeakably  happy.  Her 
recovery  progressed  rapidly.  Yet  there  was  great  weakness 
still  remaining,  from  which  Dorette  was  not  wholly  releived 
until  the  spring,  when  by  the  recommendation  of  the  Doctor 
I hired  a house  in  the  country  with  garden  attached,,  and  by 
that  means  procured  her  the  continual  enjoyment  of  fresh  air. 
Strengthened  by  this , she  then  gradually  began  her  musical 
studies,  which  for  almost  six  months  she  had  been  obliged  to 
discontinue.  In  the  Catalogue  of  the  whole  of  my  works, 
which  I began  shortly  after  my  appointment  in  Gotha  and 
continued  up  to  the  present  time,  besides  those  Compositions 
already  named,  dating  from  1808,  the  following  are  specified: 
Two  Duetts  for  violin  (op.  9)  and  one  for  violin  and  viola 
(op.  13),  Variations  for  the  harp  and  two  Quartetts  for  stringed 
instruments.  In  Quartetts,  certainly  the  most  difficult  of  all 
compositions,  1 had  already  made  a trial  the  year  before. 
But  with  them  I succeeded  no  better  than  with  Song-compo- 
sitions. Shortly  after  their  completion  they  no  longer  pleased 
me;  and  for  that  reason  I should  not  have  published  them 
had  not  my  Leipsic  publisher,  Herr  Kiihnel,  at  whose  house  I 
played  them  in  the  autumn  of  1807,  retained  them  almost 
by  force,  and  shortly  afterwards  published  them  (as  op.  4). 
The  new  Quartett  (op.  15)  also  brought  out  by  Kiihnel , 
pleased  me  it  is  true  somewhat  longer ; but  at  a later  period 
when  I had  learned  to  produce  a better  style  of  Quartett-com- 
position  I regretted  also  that  I had  published  them.  The 
two  first  Quartetts  I dedicated  to  the  Duke  of  Gotha,  but 
only  at  his  personal  request;  for  though  I felt  a pleasure  in 
dedicating  my  works  to  Artistes  and  amateurs  of  music,  as  a 
token  of  my  respect  and  friendship,  yet  my  artistic  pride 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


122 


would  never  permit  me  to  dedicate  them  to  Princes  for  pro~  * 
fit’s  sake,  though  even  at  their  express  desire. 

At  the  time  when  the  Duke  invited  me  to  dedicate  my 
Compositions  to  him,  he  frequently  used  to  send  for  me  to 
converse  with  him  upon  his  tastes  in  Art.  As  is  well  known, 
in  spite  of  his  peculiarities,  he  was  a man  of  mind,  and  cul- 
tivated taste,  which  his  published  Poems  and  his  Correspondance 
with  Jean  Paul  sufficiently  prove.  But  with  the  affairs  of 
Government  he  did  not  in  the  least  trouble  himself,  and  left 
them  entirely  to  the  Privy-Counsellor  voti  Frankenberg , who, 
therefore,  was  virtually  the  Regent  of  the  land.  Obliged  pro 
forma  to  be  present  at  the  sittings  of  the  Privy- Council,  he 
invariably  got  tired  of  the  subjects  of  discussion,  and  endea- 
voured to  make  them  as  short  as  possible,  himself  frequently, 
saying,  in  derision  of  his  own  want  of  interest  “will  not  the 
Gentlemen  of  the  Privy-Council  soon  be  pleased  to  command 
what  I am  to  command?” 

At  that  time,  perhaps  incited  by  my  Compositions  for 
the  voice,  he  was  seized  with  the  desire  to  have  one  of  his 
longer  poems,  a kind  of  Cantata,  set  to  music.  He  did  me 
the  honour  to  consult  me  on  the  subject.  But  as  the  Duke 
probably  could  not  prevail  on  himself  to  let  me  see  his  limit- 
ed knowledge  of  music , he  applied  to  his  old  music-master, 
the  Concert-Director  Reinhard , to  carry  it  . out.  ..From  him  at 
a later  period,  in  an  unguarded  and  confiding  moment,  I heard 
how  the  composition  of  the  Cantata  was  brought  about.  The 
Duke,  read  to  his  master  seated  at  the  piano,  a passage  of 
the  text,  and  explained  to  him  his  ideas  respecting  the  style 
in  which  it  should  be  composed.  When  the  Duke  had  once 
heard  or  read  the  characteristics  of  the  different  tones,  Rein- 
hard  was  then  obliged  to  strike  several  of  them  in  sequent 
accords,  so  that  he  might  find  the  right  one  for  his  text.  If 
this  was  cheerful,  a Major-Key  was  chosen,  if  it  was  mourn- 
ful, a Minor-Key  was  selected.  It  happened  one  day  that 
the  Duke  took  the  Major  too  sprightly,  and  the  Minor  was 
too  mournful,  upon  this  he  required  poor  Reinhard  to  sound 


Digitized  by  foozle 


123 


the  Key  in  half  Minor.  When  they  had  agreed  upon  this 
point,  the  melody  suited  to  the  text  was  next  sought  for. 
The  Duke  then  whistled  every  melody  that  came  into  his 
head,  and  left  his  master  to  choose  the  most  suitable  to  the 
character  of  the  words.  When  in  this  manner  a few  lines  of 
the  poem  had  been  disposed  of,  they  passed  on  to  the  next.  As 
Reinhard  could  not  comp6se,  or  at  least  not  arrange  the  in- 
strumentation, the  plan  of  the  Cantata  thus  sketched  out  in 
the  Duke’s  leisure-hours  was  handed  over  to  the  “Kammer- 
Musicus”  Backofen  to  complete  with  score.  The  latter,  as 
may  readily  be  imagined,  could  make  but  little  use  of  the 
materials  given  to  him,  and  was  therefore  obliged  to  recom- 
pose as  it  were  the  Cantata  anew.  Possessing  considerable 
talent  for  composition,  he  accordingly  put  out  of  hand  a piece 
of  music  such  as  could  well  .be  listened  to.  The  work  thus 
completed,  was  * now  written  out,  carefully  practised  under  my 
direction,  and  then  produced  at  a Court- Concert.  The  Duke, 
though  he  may  well  have  been  somewhat  astonished  that  his 
music  sounded  so  well,  received  the  congratulations  and  praises 
of  the  Court  with  a satisfied  mien,  praised  me  for  having  so 
well  entered  into  his  ideas  in  practising  it  with  the  orchestra, 
and  privately  sent  his  two  fellow-workmen  their  gratuity.  In 
this  manner  all  parties  were  satisfied. 

In  the  winter  of  1808 — 9,  I arranged  some  Subscription- 
Concerts  in  the  town  for  the  benefit  of  the  Court-Orchestra. 
But  as  these  could  present  nothing  better  than  was  heard  at 
the  Court- Concerts,  and  those  were  much  frequented  by  the 
amateurs  of  music  of  the  town,  for  whom  a large  space  behind 
the  orchestra  in  the  Concert-saloon  was  set  apart,  these  Sub- 
scription concerts  met  with  but  little  support.  The  product 
therefore  was  so  small  after  the  deduction  of  the  expenses, 
that  it  was  not  considered  worth  while  repeating  the  under- 
taking. 

At  one  of  these  Concerts,  Herr  Uermstedt , Director  of  the 
“Harmonic-music”  to  Prince  Sondershausen,  appeared  as  Cla- 
rinet player,  and  attracted  much  attention  by  his  admirable 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


124 


performance.  He  had  come  to  Gotha  to  request  me  to  write 
a Clarinet-concerto  for  him,  for  which  the  Prince  upon  the 
condition  that  Hermstedt  should  be  put  in  possession  of  the 
manuscript,  offered  to  pay  a handsome  gratuity.  To  this 
proposal  I gladly  assented,  as  from  the  immense  execution, 
together  with  the  brilliancy  of  tone,  and  purity  of  intonation 
possessed  by  Hermstedt , I felt  at  full  liberty  to  give  the  reins 
to  my  fancy.  After,  that  with  Hermstedt' s assistance  I had 
made  myself  somewhat  acquainted  with  the  technics  of  the 
instrument,  I went  zealously  to  work,  and  completed  it  in  a 
few  weeks.  Thus  originated  the  Concerto  in  E-minor,  published 
a few  years  afterwards  by  Kuhnel  as  op.  26,  with  which 
Hermstedt  achieved  so  much  success  in  his  artistic  tours,  that 
it  may  be  affirmed  he  is  chiefly  indebted  to  that  for  his  fame. 
I took  it  over  to  him  myself  to  Sondershausen,  at  the  end  of 
January,  and  initiated  him  in  the  way  to  execute  it.  On  this 
occasion,  I appeared  also  as  Violinist  at  a concert  given  by 
Hermstedt , and  played  for  the  first  time,  my  Concerto  in  G- 
Minor  (op.  28)  which  I had  just  finished  a few  days  before, 
and,  also,  a new  Pot-pourri  (op.  24), 

Secretary  Gerber , the  author  of  the  '‘Musical  Lexicon”, 
speaks  of  these  not  only  in  that  work,  under  the  article 
“Spohr”  but  also  in  a spirited  notice  in  the  Musical-Journal, 
a reprint  of  which  is  to  be  found  in  number  26.  of  the  ele- 
venth volume.  The  third  part  of  this  Concerto  is  a Spanish 
Rondo , the  melodies  of  which  are  not  mine  but  genuine  Spanish. 
I heard  them  from  a Spanish  soldier  who  was  quartered  in 
my  house,  and  who  sang  to  the  guitar.  I noted  down  what 
pleased  me,  and  wove  it  into  my  Rondo . In  order  to  give 
this  a more  Spanish  character,  I copied  the  guitar-accompani- 
ments as  1 had  heard  them  from  the  Spaniard,  into  the 
orchestral  part.  At  the  beginning  of  the  same  winter,  I had 
also  a visit  from  Reichardt , Director  of  the  orchestra  at  Cassel, 
and  then  first  made  his  personal  acquaintance.  Reichardt 
told  me  he  was  going  to  Vienna  by  the  command  of  his  Court, 
to  engage  singers  for  a German  theatre  that  was  about  to  be 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


125 


opened  at  Cassel.  This,  proved  afterwards  to  be  false;  for 
Reichardt  was  at  that  very  time  no  longer  in  the  Westphalian 
service.  I had  felt  at  first  much  annoyed  by  a sharp  criti- 
cism of  Reichardfs  upon  my  play,  on  my  first  appearance  at 
Berlin;  but  as  1 soon  found  that  it  contained  many  truths 
und  well  founded  strictures,  and  that  it  had  prompted  me  to 
correct  the  faults  it  pointed  out  in  my  execution,  a sentiment 
of  gratitude  had  long  taken  the  place  of  my  former  resent- 
ment. I therefore  welcomed  my  guest  with  great  cordiality, 
and  immediately  arranged  a musical  party  at  my  house  in 
his  honour,  at  which  I let  him  hear  my  two  new  and  ju9t 
finished  Violin-Quartetts. 

As  at  that  time  1 knew  none  of  Reichardt' 8 compositions 
beyond  a couple  of  successful  songs,  and  looked  upon  the 
famous  author  of  the  ‘'Confidential  letter  from  Paris”  and  the 
dreaded  Critic,  as  a great  Composer,  I set  much  value  upon 
his  opinion,  and  awaited  it  with  a feeling  of  acute  expect- 
ancy. I therefore  again  felt  somewhat  chafed  when  Reichardt 
had  various  objections  to  make,  and  expressed  them  sans  gene. 
But  it  was  perhapB  more  the  self  sufficient  look  of  infallibility 
with  which  he  pronounced  his  judgement,  that  wounded  me; 
for  some  time  after,  I was  again  obliged  to  admit  to  myself, 
that  Reichardt's  observations  were  in  many  respects  just. 
There  was  one  remark,  which  I frequently  called  to  mind  in 
my  subsequent  studies.  For  instance,  in  an  Adagio,  from  the 
beginning  to  the  end,  I had  carried  out  a figure  after  the 
style  of  Mozart,  now  in  one  Key,  and  then  in  the  other,  and 
in  my  delight  at  this  scientific  interweaving,  had  not  re- 
marked that  it  at  last  became  monotonous.  But  although 
Reichardt  praised  the  manner  in  which  I had  carried  it  through, 
he  spoke  unsparingly  against  it,  and  added  more  over,  mali- 
ciously, “You  could  not  rest  until  you  had  worried  your  mo- 
tive to  death  1” 


* 


* 


Digitized  by  foozle 


126 


In  the  spring  of  1809,  from  the  unusual  expenses  atten- 
dant upon  my  wife’s  confinement  and  subsequent  illness,  as 
well  as  those  incurred  by  the  necessary  removal  to  another 
house  outside  the  town,  I found  myself  in  such  straightened 
circumstances,  that  I earnestly  desired  to  see  realised  the 
promise  of  an  increase  of  salary  that  had  been  made  to  me 
on  my  appointment.  I therefore  addressed  a petition  to  the  Duke, 
which  as  he  never  troubled  himself  with  administrative  matters, 
was  without  effect,  and  probably,  was  laid  aside  unread.  I 
was  therefore  advised  by  the  Intendant,  Baron  von  Reibnitz 
to  make  a personal  application  to  the  Privy- Counsellor  von 
Frankenberg  and  deliver  to  him  my  petition  for  the  desired 
increase  of  salary.  I followed  this  advice,  and  in  the  after- 
noon of  a fine  spring-day,  walked  over  to  the  seat  of  the 
Privy- Counsellor,  distant  about  two  miles  from  Gotha,  on  the 
road  to  Erfurt.  I found  him  in  his  garden,  sitting  under  a 
large  lime  tree,  playing  chess  with  his  daughter.  As  I had 
been  familiar  with  this  game  from  my  early  youth,  played  it 
often,  and  was  passionately  fond  of  it;  after  a short  saluta- 
tion of  the  players,  I immediately  directed  my  whole  atten- 
tion to  the  game  as  it  stood.  The  Privy- Counsellor  observing 
this,  had  a chair  placed  for  me  close  to  the  table,  and  quietly 
played  on.  When  1 first  arrived,  the  game  looked  very 
threatening  for  the  daughter,  and  it  was  not  long  before  she 
was  checkmated  by  her  father.  I had  taken  particular  notice 
of  the  position  of  the  pieces,  and  in  so  doing,  a move  had 
suggested  itself  to  me  by  which  the  checkmate  could  have 
been  prevented.  I represented  this,  and  was  immediately 
challenged  by  the  Privy- Counsellor,  who  thought  himself  sure 
of  the  victory,  to  try  it.  The  pieces  were  again  replaced  in 
the  position  they  stood  when  I arrived,  and  1 now  took  the 
daughter’s  game.  After  a few  well  combined  moves  I succeed- 
ed in  extricating  my  King  from  all  danger,  and  I then 
played  against  my  opponent  with  such  success,  that  he  was 
soon  obliged  to  confess  himself  beaten.  The  Privy-Counsellor, 
though  somewhat  nettled  at  his  defeat,  was  nevertheless  much 


Digitized  by  Google 


127 


struck  with  the  unexpected  issue  of  the  game.  He  held  out 
his  hand  to  me  in  a friendly  manner  and  said:  “You  are  a 
capital  Chess-player , and  must  often  do  me  the  pleasure  of 
playing  with  me.”  This  I did ; and  as  I was  world-wise 
enough  not  to  win  too  many  games,  I soon  got  in  great 
favour  with  my  new  patron;  the  restilt  was,  that  a rescript, 
for  an  additional  two  hundred  thalers  to  my  salary  was  soon 
made  out. 

* * 

* 

Towards  the  middle  of  the  summer,  from  the  constant 
enjoyment  of  fresh  air,  and  frequent  walks  which  were  ex- 
tended by  degrees  to  little  excursions  into  the  neighbourhood; 
Dorette  had  regained  her  former  strength  and  health,  and  again 
devoted  herself  with  renewed  assiduity  to  the  study  of  her 
instrument,  in  order  to  prepare  herself  thoroughly  for  our 
projected  second  artistic- tour.  As  1 also  now  became  more 
and  more  acquainted  with  the  properties  of  the  harp,  with  its 
effects,  and  what  my  wife  in  particular  was  capable  of  per- 
forming with  it,  I at  that  time  wrote  another  grand  Sonata 
for  harp  and  violin  (op.  1 15  published  by  Schuberth  in  Ham- 
burg), and  took  great  pains  to  introduce  into  it  the  result 
of  my  experience.  I was  completely  successful;  the  part  for 
the  harp  in  this  Sonata  was  easier  to  play,  and  at  the  same 
time  more  brilliant  than  in  the  previous  ones.  Dorette  there- 
fore, practised  it  with  special  predeliction  and  soon  played 
this  new  work  with  the  same  precision  as  the  others. 

Thus  once  more  prepared  for  an  Artistic  tour,  we  began 
to  consider  in  which  direction  it  would  he  most  advantageous 
to  go.  I had  learned  from  a traveller  just  returned  from 
Russia,  that  my  Musical  fame  and  that  of  my  wife  had  already 
reached  there,  and  that  in  the  previous  winter  a visit  from  us  had 
been  expected.  As  I had  reason  to  hope,  moreover,  that  I 
should  ftpceive  powerful  letters  of  recommendation  from  the 
Court  of  Weimar  to  the  Imperial  Court  of  St.  Petersburgh, 
the  journey  to  Russia  appeared  to  me  to  hold  out  the  most 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


128 


advantages.  But,  Dorette  would  not  consent  to  so  distant  a 
journey  from  home,  as  she  beleived  herself  unable  to  bear  so 
long  a separation  from  her  children.  Yet,  when  I represen- 
ted to  her,  that  if  at  any  time  it  was  our  intention  to  go  to 
Russia,  the  present  was  the  most  favourable  moment,  in  which 
our  children  under  the  assiduous  care  of  their  grandmother, 
would  miss  us  less  than  at  a later  period,  she  at  length, 
though  with  a bleeding  heart,  consented  to  it.  As  I had 
foreseen  that  the  Dutchess,  also,  would  not  consent  to  so  long 
an  absence  as  would  be  required  for  a journey  to  Russia, 
I kept  secret  for  the  present  the  real  aim  of  our  journey, 
and  named  Breslau  as  its  object,  for  which  I asked  and  ob- 
tained a three-month’s  leave.  From  there,  I intended  to  apply 
for  an  extension  of  leave,  to  proceed  farther. 

We  set  out  on  our  journey  in  October,  1809;  played  first 
at  Weimar,  and  received  from  the  Grand-Dutchess  the  desired 
introduction  to  her  brother,  the  Emperor  Alexander,  as  also 
to^  other  Russian  Magnates.  We  then  gave  a Concert  in 
Leipsic,  of  which  the  Musical- Journal  contains  the  following 
short  notice:  “Herr  Concertmeister  Spohr  and  his  wife  afforded 
us  the  pleasure  to  hear  for  a whole  evening,  several  of  his 
newest  Compositions,  and  himself  on  the  Violin;  as,  also,  his 
wife  on  the  Harp.  Respecting  tlii6  true  artiste  and  his  talen- 
ted wife  we  have  already  spoken  fully  and  decidedly,  we  shall 
here  therefore  be  succinct.  Since  we  last  heard  them,  both 
have  made  a surprising  progress,  not  alone  in  their  mastery 
and  ready  command  of  all  the  resources  of  their  Art,  but  in 
their  skilful  application  of  them  to  the  best  and  most  effec- 
tive purposes : — And  if  the  former  Compositions  of  this  Master 
found  both  here  and  everywhere  else  the  most  unanimous 
applause,  his  later  Compositions  which  we  have  now  heard, 
will  much  less  fail  to  do  so.” 

Of  our  Concerts  in  Dresden,  and  Bautzen,  having  sought 
in  vain  for  a notice  of  them,  I am  unable  to  say  more  than 
that  they  took  place  on  the  1.  and  7.  November,  as  I per- 
ceive from  a memorandum  of  the  receipts  on  this  journey, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


129 


which  has  by  chance  been  preserved.  But  of  the  three  Con- 
certs we  gave  in  Breslau,  on  the  18.  November,  and  the  2. 
and  9.  December  there  is  a notice  in  the  Musical -Journal, 
which  speaks  in  great  praise  of  our  Play,  though  it  finds  some 
fault  with  the  Compositions.  It  says:  “The  opinion  of  our 
musical  friends  of  Herr  Spohr  as  a Composer,  agrees  fully  with 
that  which  they  previously  pronounced  respecting  him.'  He 
is  in  truth  a Musician  of  high  merit.  He  has  nevertheless  a 
peculiarity,  and  one  which  by  degrees  perhaps,  will  lead  him 
to  uniformity  in  style;  namely,  his  latest  compositions,  so  far 
as  we  are  acquainted  with  them  are  one  and  ail  of  a melan* 
choly  character . Even  the  Pot-Pourri  which  he  played  at  the 
close  of  the  Concert,  partook  somewhat  of  it.” 

This  remark  upon  the  melancholy  character  of  my  Com- 
positions, which  is  here  made  for  the  first  time,  and  so  often 
repeated  at  a later  period  in  criticisms  upon  my  works,  as 
to  become  regularly  stereotyped,  has  always  been  a riddle  for 
me;  for,  to  me,  my  Compositions  appear  for  the  most  part 
quite  as  cheerful  as  those  of  any  other  Composer.  Those  in 
particular  which  I then  played  in  Breslau,  with  the  exception 
of  two  subjects,  were  all  of  so  lively  a character,  that  I am 
still  unable  to  understand  the  above  remark.  The  two 
first  Allegro’s  alone  of  the  Concertante  in  H-  and  G-  Minor 
are  serious,  the  former  perhaps  even  somewhat  mournful,  but 
the  other  subjects  are  all  of  them,  lively.  The  same  may  be 
said  from  beginning  to  end  of  the  Concertante  for  two  vio- 
lins in  A- Major,  which  I played  with  Herr  Luge , and  more 
than  that,  the  third  Thesis  is  even  saucily  playful.  Neither 
does  the  Composition  for  the  harp,  nor  the  Overture  to 
“Alruna”  bear  any  trace  of  melancholy;  how  then  does  the 
Reviewer  come  by  his  remark  ? — Nevertheless,  as  something 
similar  has  been  maintained  respecting  my  Compositions  even 
up  to  the  present  time,  so  that  people  who  have  not  known 
me  personally,  have  considered  me  a misanthrope,  or  an 
hypochondriac,  though  I am  happy  to  say  I am  always 
of  a cheerful  tone  of  mind;  there  must  be  something  in  it, 

8POHR,  Autobiography.  L 9 


Digitized  by  Google 


130 


and  I think  it  is,  that  people  have  taken  the  prevailing  dream- 
iness and  sentimental  character  of  my  Compositions,  and  my 
predeliction  for  the  Minor  Keys,  as  outbursts  of  melancholy. 
If  it  is  so,  I am  content  to  bear  with  it,  though  at  first  it 
always  annoyed  me.  Of  the  Overture  to  “Alruna”,  the  same 
Breslauer  critic  says:  “It  is  not  free  from  reminiscences.” 
He  might  have  said  right  out,  it  is  an  exact  imitation  of  the 
Overture  to  the  “Zauberflote” ; for  that  was  the  object  I had 
in  view.  In  my  admiration  of  Mozart , and  the  feeling  of 
wonder  with  which  I regarded  that  Overture,  an  imitation  of 
it  seemed  to  me  something  very  natural  and  praiseworthy,  and 
at  the  time  when  I sought  to  develope  my  talent  for  Compo- 
sition I had  made  many  similar  imitations  of  Mozart's  master 
pieces,  and  among  others  that  of  the  aria  full  of  love-complaints 
in  Alruna,  imitated  from  the  beautiful  aria  of  Pamina : uAch, 
ich  f Uhl's,  es  ist  verschwunden."  Although  shortly  after  that 
time,  I became  sensible  that  a Composer  should  endeavour  to 
be  original  both  in  the  form  of  his  musical  pieces,  and  in  the 
development  of  his  musical  ideas,  yet  I retained  even  up  to 
a later  period,  a predeliction  for  that  imitation  of  the  Over- 
ture to  the  “ Zauberflote” , and  still  consider  it  as  one  of  my 
best  and  most  effective  Instrumental-compositions.  Neither  is 
it  so  slavish  an  imitation  as  to  contain  nothing  of  my  own 
invention ; for  instance,  the  striking  modulations  in  the  intro- 
ductory Adagio,  and  the  second  Fugue-theme  with  which  the 
second  half  of  the  Allegro  begins,  and,  which  then  is  so  hap- 
pily connected  with  the  chief  theme.  The  instrumentation, 
also,  though  quite  in  the  Mozcvrt  style  has  nevertheless,  some 
original  characteristics. 

In  Breslau  we  met  an  old  acquaintance  from  Gotha, 
Baron  von  Reibnitz , who  hitherto  had  been  Intendant  of  the 
Orchestra,  but  had  resigned,  and  retired  to  his  estate  in 
Silesia.  He  was  then  in  town  for  the  winter  months,  and 
acquainted  with  all  in  Breslau  who  were  fond  of  music,  and 
who  played,  he  introduced  me  into  the  Musical  Circles  there, 
and  was  of  great  assistance  to  me  in  making  arrangements 


Digitized  by  Google 


131 


for  my  concerts.  In  Breslau,  from  olden  time  one  of  the 
most  musical  Towns  of  Germany,  there  was  at  that  moment 
such  a succession  of  Concerts,  that  one  took  place  almost 
every  day  in  the  week.  As  the  Theatre,  was  open  also  every 
evening,  it  was  therefore  very  difficult  to  fix  upon  a day 
favourable  for  an  Extra-Concert,  and  almost  more  difficult  to 
get  together  a good  and  numerous  orchestra.  The  kindness 
of  Schnabel  the  Leader  of  the  Cathedral  - Choir  enabled  me 
nevertheless  to  overcome  this  difficulty,  for  he  not  only  pro- 
cured for  me  a good  Orchestra  for  each  of  my  three  Concerts, 
but  each  time  undertook  to  conduct  it.  The  experienced  Di- 
rector evinced  a particular  interest  in  my  compositions,  which 
he  soon  transferred  to  the  Composer,  who  returned  it  in  the 
most  hearty  manner.  We  became  much  attached  to  each 
other,  and  until  Schnabel's  early  death  remained  on  the  most 
intimate  terms  of  friendship. 

Shortly  after  my  arrival  in  Breslau,  just  as  I was  about 
to  write  to  Gotha  for  an  extension  of  my  leave  to  proceed  to 
Russia,  I received  through  Baron  von  Reihnite  a letter  from 
the  Court-Chamberlain  Count  Salisch  in  Gotha,  to  the  follow- 
ing effect: 

The  Dutchess  has  with  great  regret  received  the  infor- 
mation from  Weimar,  that  I had  the  intention  of  proceeding 
to  Russia  and  did  not  contemplate  returning  before  the  ex- 
piration of  the  year.  As  she  would  be  extremely  unwilling 
to  miss  my  services  and  those  of  my  wife  at  the  Court-Con- 
certs for  so  long  a period,  she  therefore  offered,  if  I would 
give  up  the  journey  to  Russia,  and  return  speedily  to  Gotha, 
to  indemnify  my  wife,  by  procuring  for  her  the  appointment 
of  Solo-player  at  the  Court- Concerts,  and  Teacher  of  Music 
to  the  Princess.*  — Scarcely  had  I communicated  to  my  wife 
the  contents  of  this  letter,  than  I saw  how  the  hope  of  sooner 
rebeholding  her  childern  brought  tears  of  joy  into  her  eyes. 

* The  Step-daughter  of  the  Dutchess,  afterwards  married  to  the  Duke 
of  Coburg,  and  mother  of  the  present  reigning  Duke  and  of  His  R.  H. 
the  late  Prince  Albert,  Consort  of  the  Queen  of  England. 

9* 


Digitized  by  Google 


132 


This  moved  me  so  deeply,  that  I at  once  resolved  to  give  up 
the  journey.  I therefore  immediately  put  myself  in  commu- 
nication with  Count  Salisch , the  new  Intendant  of  the  Gotha 
Orchestra,  and  when  he  had  definitively  arranged  the  appoint- 
ment of  my  wife  with  a suitable  salary  to  commence  from 
the  1.  January  1810,  I agreed  on  my  side  to  return  to  Gotha 
as  soon  as  possible.  We  therefore  hastened  our  departure 
from  Breslau  to  Berlin,  and  proceeded  through  Liegnitz  to 
Glogau,  where  we  gave  two  Concerts  on  the  13.  and  18.  De- 
cember, that  had  been  previously  arranged  for  by  our  musical 
friends  there,  and  which  were  very  numerously  attended. 

Of  the  Concert  at  Glogau,  I still  remember  a very  ludi- 
crous incident.  It  took  place  in  a building  which  was  perhaps 
unique  of  its  kind;  for  on  the  basement  were  the  Butcher’s 
shambles,  on  the  first  floor  the  Concert-Saloon,  and  above  that 
the  Theatre  of  the  town.  As  the  Saloon  was  very  low  and 
much  overcrowded,  it  soon  became  insufferably  hot.  The  public, 
therefore,  soon  demanded  that  a trap-door  in  the  ceiling  of 
the  Saloon  should  be  opened,  which  could  be  effected  from  the 
Pit  of  the  Theatre  overhead.  Now,  however,  the  key  of  the 
Theatre  was  nowhere  to  be  found,  the  latter  not  having  been 
used  during  the  whole  of  the  winter;  a long  pole  was  there- 
fore brought  with  which  to  push  up  the  door.  At  first,  it 
would  not  move;  but  upon  several  men  combining  their  strength, 
it  sprung  suddenly,  open,  and  at  the  same  moment  let  down 
upon  the  ladies  sitting  underneath  such  a shower  of  dust, 
cherry  -stones,  apple -peel  and  the  like,  the  accumulation  of 
years,  in  the  pit,  that  not  only  were  they  completely  covered, 
but  the  whole  orchestra  and  audience  envelloped  in  such  a 
cloud  of  dust,  that  at  first  nobody  could  make  out  what  it 
really  was.  When  it  had  cleared  off  again,  the  ladies  endea- 
voured as  well  as  they  could  to  free  their  necks  and  dresses 
from  the  dirt;  the  Musicians  cleaned  their  instruments,  and 
the  Concert  was  continued. 

We  found  Berlin  very  full  of  strangers,  and  in  a state 
of  festive  excitement  in  expectation  of  the  return  of  the  Court, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


133 


which  ever  since  the  unfortunate  battle  of  Jena  had  continued 
to  reside  in  Konigsberg.  The  moment  was  favourable  for  giving 
Concerts,  and  even  before  the  arrival  of  the  Court  we  had 
a numerous  audience  at  our  first.  Of  our  performances,  the 
Editor  of  the  Musical  Journal  says:  “Yesterday,  the  4.  Ja- 
nuary, the  Director  of  Concerts  in  Gotha,  Herr  Spohr,  gave 
a Concert  at  the  Theatre.  Of  his  own  Compositions  he  played 
a Violin -Concerto  in  G- Minor,  with  a Spanish  Rondo , a Pot- 
Pourri  for  the  Violin,  and  with  his  wife  an  accomplished  and 
most  expressive  player,  a Sonata  for  pedal -Harp  and  Violin, 
also  of  his  composition.  The  Musical  Journal  has  already 
frequently  spoken  in  praise  of  this  talented  Virtuoso,  and  re- 
cently also  adverted  to  this  composition.  In  the  present  in- 
stance, also,  both  his  Compositions  and  his  Play  were  highly 
commended.  Particularly  admired  were  the  double  chords,  the 
distances,  and  the  shakes  which  Herr  Spohr  executed  with  the 
greatest  skill,  and  by  the  impassioned  expression  of  his  play, 
especially  in  the  Adagio , he  won  every  heart.  We  hope,  to 
hear  this  estimable  Artiste-Couple  again  next  week." 

On  the  10.  took  place  the  Public  Entry  of  the  returning 
Court.  It  was  indeed  an  affecting  scene,  when  the  King  seated 
by  the  side  of  his  Wife  in  an  open  carriage,  drove  slowly 
through  the  crowded  streets,  greeted  by  the  acclamations  of 
thousands  and  by  the  waving  of  handkerchiefs  from  every 
window.  The  Queen  seemed  deeply  affected;  for  tear  after 
tear  was  seen  to  steal  from  her  beautiful  eyes.  In  the  eve- 
ning the  City  was  splendidly  illuminated. 

On  the  following  day,  we  gave  our  second  Concert.  Early 
in  the  morning  we  were  beseiged  with  questions,  whether  the 
Court  would  be  there.  We  could  as  yet  afford  no  informa- 
tion on  the  subject ; but  when  about  noon,  the  Queen  sent  for 
tickets,  the  news  of  it  spread  through  the  City  like  wildfire, 
and  the  auditory  now  came  in  such  crowds  that  the  spacious 
Saloon  could  scarcely  hold  them.  I played,  as  I see  by  the 
notice  in  the  Musical  Journal,  my  third  Concerto  in  C-Major; 
and  with  my  pupil  Hildebrandt  who  was  on  a visit  to  a re- 


Digitized  by  Google 


134 


lation  in  Berlin,  my  Concertante  in  A-Major.  The  precision 
of  our  Duo-playing  was  the  same  as  usual,  and  here,  as  in 
Gotha  gained  for  us  the  most  lively  applause.  But  the  critic, 
nevertheless  does  not  appear  to  have  been  wholly  of  the  same 
opinion,  since  he  expresses  himself  as  follows:  uBoth  Players 
in  the  Concertante  played  not  only  together,  but  as  one ; and 
though  this  merits  on  the  one  hand  praise  and  even  elicits  as- 
tonishment, yet  on  the  other,  it  is  somewhat  uniform  and  mo- 
notonous ; one  missed  and  regretfully,  that  charm  which  derives 
from  the  union  of  things  different  in  themselves,  when  through 
that  very  unison  the  difference  is  still  observable  — instead 
of  being  a union  of  accord , it  was  one  and  the  same  thing.” 
— This  sounds  very  sensible,  and  yet  has  very  little  sense 
in  it!  The  two  Solo- voices  of  this  Concertante  are  written  in 
such  a manner  that  their  full  effect  is  only  to  be  attained  by 
the  closest  union  of  play.  But  to  achieve  that  in  the  highest 
degree,  is  possible  only  when  both  players  are  of  the  same 
school  and  have  the  same  style  of  execution.  In  fact,  it  is 
even  necessary  that  their  Instruments  should  possess  a like 
power,  and  as  much  as  possible  the  same  qualities  of  tone. 
These  were  all  combined  in  my  Pupil  and  me ; hence  the  great 
effect  of  our  Duo-playing.  At  a subsequent  period  in  my  tra- 
vels both  in  Germany  and  abroad,  I have  played  that  Con- 
certante with  several  of  the  most  celebrated  Violinists  of  the 
day,  who  as  Virtuosi  stood  higher  than  my  pupil  Hildebrandt, 
but  with  them  I never  could  attain  the  same  effect  as  in  my 
play  with  him,  their  school  and  mode  of  execution  being  too 
dissimilar  from  mine. 

It  was  at  first  my  intention  to  return  to  Gotha  direct 
from  Berlin,  in  order  to  keep  my  promise.  But  being  informed 
by  a musical  friend  in  Hamburgh  that  it  was  then  a most  fa- 
vourable time  of  the  year  to  give  Concerts,  I wrote  to  Gotha 
requesting  a few  weeks  more  extension  of  leave,  to  visit  Ham- 
burgh before  my  return.  It  was  granted  to  me. 

Hamburgh  was  at  that  time  in  the  possession  of  the 
French,  who  had  laid  a severe  interdict  upon  all  commerce 


Digitized  by  Google 


135 


with  England.  The  then  even  very  rich  merchants  had  there- 
fore little  to  do,  and  the  more  leisure  to  occupy  themselves 
with  Music  and  Concerts.  As  we  were  now  proceeded  by  a 
good  artistic  reputation,  our  first  Concert,  which  we  gave  on 
the  8.  February  in  the  Apollo  - Saloon  was  Exceedingly  well 
attended,  and  brought  in  at  the  high  admission-price  of  one 
Hamburgh  Species,  nearly  400  thalers.  Our  play  in  that  Con- 
cert having  made  a great  sensation,  the  receipts  increased  at 
the  second,  on  21.  February,  to  the  large  sum  of  1015  Thalers. 
Between  those  two  Concerts  we  gave  one  also  at  Lubeck  on 
the  14.  which  we  had  been  invited  to  do  by  the  Musical  ama- 
teurs of  that  place,  and,  lastly,  played  also  at  Altona  in  the 
Museum,  for  a moderate  remuneration. 

Highly  gratified  with  the  business  we  had  done,  we  were 
now  on  the  point  of  leaving;  when  the  Secretary  to  the  French 
Governor  called  upon  us,  and  invited  us  in  his  name  to  give 
a third  Concert,  as  he  and  his  Circle  had  missed  the  oppor- 
tunity of  hearing  us.  Under  the  apprehension  that  a third 
would  not  be  well  attended,  as  I hesitated  in  my  reply,  the 
gentleman  added,  that  he  was  charged  to  take  two  hundred 
tickets  for  the  Governor  and  his  friends.  All  hesitation  on 
my  part  was  now  dismissed,  and  on  the  3.  March  we  gave  a 
third  Concert,  which  again  brought  a receipt  of  510  thalers. 

At  that  time,  in  Hamburgh,  I first  became  personally  ac- 
quaintained  with  Andreas  Romberg  and  the  Director  of  Music 
Schwenke.  Both  those  celebrated  Artistes  received  me  in  the 
most  friendly  manner,  and  rendered  me  every  possible  assis- 
tance in  my  concerts.  Romberg  took  care  to  provide  a good 
Orchestra  and  directed  it  himself,  and  Schwenke , the  dreaded 
critic,  undertook  to  announce  the  Concerts  in  the  newspapers. 
As  his  opinion  was  considered  the  highest  authority,  the  fa- 
vourable manner  in  which  he  introduced  the  Artiste -Pair  to 
the  notice  of  the  Public,  and  afterwards  pronounced  upon 
our  performance,  and  upon  my  compositions,  contributed 
not  a little  to  the  great  success  we  met  with  in  Hamburgh. 
Both  those  Artistes  lived  amid  an  agreable  family  circle  and 


Digitized  by  ^ooQie 


136 


were  much  pleased  when  I and  my  wife  looked  in  upon  them 
at  tea-time.  We  then  chatted  on  nothing  but  Music,  and 
many  were  the  entertaining  and  instructive  discussions  that 
arose.  Romberg  took  great  pleasure  in  reverting  to  his  former 
residence  in  Paris,  and  related  many  piquante  incidents  of  the 
musical  celebrities  there.  Schwenke  amused  us  highly  with 
his  witty  but  biting  criticism,  which  scarcely  spared  any  one. 
I might  therefore  well  be  proud  that  my  Compositions  and 
Play  were  favourably  spoken  of  by  him.  The  specialities 
touched  upon  by  Schwenke  in  these  discussions  were  very  in- 
structive for  me,  and  I was  therefore  always  delighted  when 
I met  him  at  these  Music-Parties.  At  this  time,  Quartette  were 
much  played  in  Hamburgh,  and  Romberg  had  studied  his  Quar- 
tett  admirably,  in  which  the  execution  of  the  Violincellist  Prell 
formed  a most  attractive  feature.  It  was  therefore  a pleasure 
to  join  them.  Romberg  only  played  particular  Quartetts,  and 
though  no  great  Virtuoso  on  his  instrument,  executed  them 
with  skill  and  taste.  But  he  only  grew  right  warm  with  the 
subject,  when  he  could  smoke  his  pipe  at  his  ease  while  Quar- 
tett-playing*.  I played  his  favorites  among  the  Quartetts  of 
Mozart  and  Beethoven  and  in  this  instance,  also,  excited  much 
sensation  by  my  truthful  rendering  of  the  distinctive  characters 
of  each.  Schwenke  expressed  himself  thereon  in  the  most 
eloquent  terms.  At  his  desire,  also,  I was  obliged  to  play 
two  of  my  own  Quartetts.  I did  it  unwillingly,  as  they  no 
longer  came  up  to  the  standard  I now  prescribed  to  myself 
in  that  kind  of  composition.  This  I expressed  also  without 
reserve;  but  they  pleased  nevertheless,  and  found  grace  even 
from  Schwenke’s  sharp  criticism.  Romberg  was  of  a different 
opinion.  He  said  to  me  with  ingenuous  openheartedness:  „Your 
Quartetts  will  not  do  yet;  they  are  far  behind  your  Orchestral 
pieces!”  Much  as  I agreed  with  him,  yet  it  wounded  me  to 
hear  another  express  that  opinion.  When  therefore,  a few 

* Bernhard  Romberg , also,  constantly  9moked  while  playing,  and  I 
once  heard  him  in  his  house  at  Gotha,  executed  his  most  difficult  Concerto 
in  F-Minor,  without  taking  the  pipe  from  his  mouth. 


Digitized  by  Google 


137 


years  afterwards  I wrote  some  Quartetts  in  Vienna,  which 
seemed  to  me  more  worthy  of  my  other  Compositions,  I de- 
dicated them  to  Romberg , in  order  to  shew  him  that  I could 
now  write  Quartetts,  “which  would  do.” 

At  one  of  the  Musical  Parties  where  I and  my  wife  were 
present,  a comical  misunderstanding  arose  which  excited  much 
laughter. 

A rich  Jew  banker,  who  had  heard  my  Quartett-playing 
much  praised,  was  desirous  to  give  his  Circle  a treat,  and  so 
he  invited  me  to  his  house.  Although,  I knew  that  I should 
meet  an  auditory  there  but  little  able  to  appreciate  such  high 
class  Music,  I could  not  well  refuse,  as  the  wealthy  man  had 
taken  forty  tickets  for  each  of  my  concerts.  I therefore  accepted 
the  invitation,  but  on  the  condition  that  the  best  Artistes  of  Ham- 
burgh should  be  invited  to  accompany  me.  This  was  promised, 
and  upon  my  entering  the  brillant  company  I not  only  found  Rom- 
berg was  present,  but  saw  another  distinguished  violinist.  Just 
as  the  Quartett-playing  was  about  to  begin  a fourth  Violinist  made 
his  appearance  with  his  instrument,  and  we  now  saw  with  astonish- 
ment that  the  master  of  the  house  had  invited  Violinists  only. 
As  a good  Accountant,  he  knew  that  to  play  a Quartett,  four 
persons  were  necessary,  but  not  that  a Violist  and  Violincellist 
should  be  among  them.  To  extricate  him  from  his  perplexity, 
he  was  advised  to  send  quickly  for  Herr  Prell  at  the  Theatre. 
But  as  the  performances  were  already  over  there,  in  spite  of 
every  endeavour,  neither  he  nor  any  other  Violincellist  could 
be  found,  and  the  company  would  have  been  obliged  to  se- 
parate without  any  music,  had  not  I and  my  wife  played  one 
of  our  sonatas.  If  the  musical  knowledge  of  this  Macenas  of 
Art  was  but  little,  his  delicacy  was  still  less.  For  when  I 
took  leave  of  him  that  evening,  he  went  to  his  writing  table 
and  taking  out  40  Species,  said  as  he  held  them  out  to  me: 
“I  hear,  you  are  going  to  give  a third  Concert;  send  me  forty 
more  tickets;  I have  still,  it  is  true,  almost  all  the  others, 
but  will  take  new  ones,  nevertheless.”  Indignant  at  the  mean- 
ness of  the  rich  Jew,  I declined  to  take  his  money,  and  said : 


Digitized  by  Google 


138 


“The  former  tickets,  certainly,  do  not  admit  to  the  next  Con- 
cert; but  yours  shall.  You  will  not  therefore  require  any  new 
ones.”  And  so  I left  him  standing  embarrassed  and  ashamed 
before  his  company,  and  turned  my  back  upon  him.  On  the 
day  of  the  Concert,  nevertheless,  one  of  the  servants  of  the 
Hebrew  Cresus  came  for  the  forty  tickets. 

Before  I left  Hamburgh,  another  offer  was  made  to  me 
that  gave  me  much  pleasure.  The  celebrated  Theatrical-Ma- 
nager, Actor,  and  Play -writer  Schroder , who  for  nearly  ten 
years  had  lived  in  retirement,  and  had  then  let  his  Theatre 
to  other  speculators,  was  suddenly  seized  with  the  desire  to 
resume  the  management  after  the  expiration  of  their  lease. 
The  Play-going  public  of  Hamburgh  were  rejoiced  at  this,  for 
they  looked  forward  to  see  their  Stage  reassume  the  distin- 
guished rank  to  which  it  had  formerly  attained  under  Schro- 
der's direction.  The  new  management  was  to  commence  with 
the  year  1811,  and  open  at  first  with  several  new  Plays  and 
Operas.  Schroder  himself  had  already  written  a number  of 
Plays  and  Comedies,  for  the  occasion,  and  had  procured  the 
librettos  of  four  Operas,  for  which  the  music  was  now  to  be 
composed.  Three  of  these  were  already  in  the  hands  of  Winter 
of  Munich,  of  Andreas  Romberg  and  Closing  the  teacher  of 
music  in  Hamburgh;  but  the  fourth  “Der  Zweikampf  mit  der 
Geliebtenu  of  Schink  was  offered  to  me  for  composition.  The 
negotiator  in  this  matter,  was  a former  acquaintance  of  mine, 
Schmidt,  the  actor,  previously  on  the  Magdeburgh  but  now  on 
the  Hamburgh  stage. 

Little  satisfied  as  I had  hitherto  been  with  my  Dramatic 
labours,  the  desire  to  make  another  trial  was  by  no  means 
diminished.  I therefore  accepted  the  offer  without  much  pre- 
liminary enquiry  about  the  conditions,  and  without  submit- 
ting the  libretto  destined  for  me  to  any  proof.  The  conditions 
were  nevertheless  very  fair.  A written  agreement  was  drawn 
up  in  which  these  were  stipulated  and  signed  by  both  parties. 
I undertook  to  deliver  my  composition  in  the  spring  of  1811, 


Digitized  by  foozle 


139 


and  to  go  to  Hamburgh  in  the  course  of  the  summer,  to  di- 
rect the  three  first  representations  of  the  opera. 

With  the  prospect  of  a pleasant  task  before  me,  I now 
gladly  returned  to  the  quiet  of  Gotha.  But  I was  somewhat 
anxious  lest  the  Dutchess  might  have  felt  offense  at  our  pro- 
tracted absence,  and  I was  the  more  confirmed  in  that  fear 
when  upon  paying  our  visit  of  return,  to  the  Dutchess,  we 
were  not  received.  We  saw  her  therefore  for  the  first  time 
again  at  the  Court- Concert.  As  I well  knew  that  the  surest  way 
to  make  our  peace  with  her,  was  to  appear  in  this  at  once, 
I played  one  of  my  Sonatas  with  my  wife,  and.  ^dj&rwards 
the  Dutchess’s  favorite  Variations  of  Rode  in  G- Major.  This 
had  the  desired  effect;  for  at  the  end  of  the  Concert,  the 
Dutchess  advanced  towards  us,  greeted  us  in  the  most  friendly 
manner,  and  would  not  permit  us  to  finish  our  apologies. 
With  our  mind  at  rest,  we  could  now  fully  enjoy  the  happi- 
ness of  being  once  more  united  to  our  children. 

As  soon  as  we  again  felt  at  home,  I longed  to  commence 
the  composition  of  the  Opera  I had  brought  with  me.  I now 
first  saw,  upon  a nearer  examination  of  the  libretto,  that  I 
had  not  drawn  a very  great  prize.  The  subject  though  in 
itself  not  uninteresting,  had  been  worked  out  in  a manner  that 
little  suited  me.  I felt  the  necessity  for  some  alterations,  and 
therefore  applied  first  to  Herr  Schroder  for  permission  to  make 
them.  This  was  readily  conceded,  and  with  the  assistance  of 
a young  Poet  in  Gotha,  I altered  what  did  not  please  me,  but 
saw  later  on  its  representation , that  I ought  also  to  have 
erased  many  other  things.  I was  then,  however,  still  too  little 
experienced  in  Dramatic-writing. 

Scarcely  had  I begun  the  Composition  of  the  first  acts  of 
the  Opera,  than  I was  called  away  from  it  by  another  task. 
In  the  spring,  Bischoff,  the  Leader  of  the  choir  at  Franken- 
hausen,  came  to  Gotha,  and  offered  me  the  Direction  of  a 
Musical  Festival,  which  he  purposed  to  give  in  the  church 
of  his  town,  in  the  course  of  the  summer.  He  had  already 
secured  the  assistance  of  the  most  celebrated  Singers,  as  well 


Digitized  by  Google 


140 


m <4  *jj&  mM  dfet jurrmhed  members  of  tie  Ccrart-Orctastnc 
rf  ti*r  u^4jdt  vyuriug  Tbamgaa  Cayhah  az<d  ikrrfore  kad  u> 
t*j*  s^M  brZitud  sooom.  As  tke  jnoor  L^irecw 
of  those  0,«rt4>rd*A*r** . I Hi  not  a littie  flattered  at  ka*- 
ing  the  Leadership  offered  to  me.  and  accepted  it  whh  pka- 
sore.  although  1 had  aerer  jet  directed  to  large  aa  Orchestra 
mod  Chorus  company  as  would  be  there  assembled.  I was 
now  obliged  to  la j aside  for  some  time  the  work  1 had  be- 
gun, in  HermsUdt  urgently  besought  me  to  write  another 
new  Clarinet-Concerto  lor  him.  to  play  at  the  Festival.  Al- 
though sorry  to  be  disturbed  in  my  studies.  I allowed  myself 
to  be  persuaded,  and  finished  it  in  sufficient  time  for  Berm 
rtedt  to  practise  it  well  under  my  direction.  This  first  Mu- 
sical Festival  at  Frankenhausen,  which  at  that  time  attracted 
great  attention  in  the  Musical  World,  and  gave  rise  both  on 
the  Kibe,  the  Rhine,  in  North- Germany  and  Switzerland,  to 
the  institution  of  similar  Musical  Festivals,  found  in  Herr  Ger- 
ber, the  author  of  the  Musical -Lexicon,  so  eloquent  a Com- 
mentator, that  I think  I cannot  do  better  than  quote  in  part 
here  his  notice,  in  the  12.  Annual-Volume  Nr.  47  of  the  Mu- 
sical Journal: 

“On  the  20.  and  21.  of  June,  a Musical-Festival  was  ce- 
lebrated in  Frankenhausen,  a Town  in  the  Schwarzburg- Ru- 
dolstadt  Circle,  four  leagues  from  Sondershaosen;  at  which 
Jluydn’v  u Creation u was  performed,  and  a Grand  Concert;  a 
Festival  as  remarkable  for  the  successful  maimer  in  which  the 
numerous  difficulties  attending  the  arrangement  of  the  whole 
had  been  overcome,  as  for  the  high  degree  of  excellence  ex- 
hibited in  the  presence  of  thousands,  who  had  gathered  to  hear 
it  from  a distance  of  twenty  leagues  round.  When  it  is  con- 
sidered that  we  are  here  speaking  of  a country  town  in  Thu- 
ringia, in  which  the  MunicaX-personel  consisted  alone  of  the 
“Htadt-Musicus”  and  his  assistants,  with  the  vocalists  of  the 
Choir,  the  possibility  of  accomplishing  such  an  undertaking 
must  excito  the  greatest  surprise  .... 

“The  Precentor  Herr  Bischoff  of  Frankenhausen,  a young, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


141 


active  man,  and  an  enthusiast  in  his  love  for  Music,  who 
already  in  1804,  with  the  assistance  of  his  neighbours  and  a 
few  members  of  the  Ducal  Orchestra  of  Gotha,  under  the 
leadership  of  Concert -Director  Fischer  of  Erfurt,  and  Ernst 
of  Gotha,  performed  “The  Creation”  in  the  principal  church 
of  that  place  with  about  eighty  Singers  and  Instrumentalists 
to  the  great  satisfaction  of  the  hearers ; felt  thereby  encouraged 
to  reproduce  once  more  that  great  master-piece,  according  to 
the  idea  of  its  great  Composer  with  two  hundred  Singers  and 
Instrumentalists.  His  purpose  was  long  hindered  by  the  pas- 
sage to  and  fro  of  foreign  troops.  At  length  in  the  present 
apparent  calm  in  Germany,  he  undertook  to  carry  it  out. 
With  that  view  he  had  some  time  previously  visited  Weimar, 
Rudoktadt,  Gotha  and  Erfurt ; to  several  towns  he  sent  written 
invitations,  and  as  these  were  everywhere  favourably  received, 
early  on  the  19.  June,  101  Singers  and  106  Instrumentalists, 
for  the  most  part  of  Thuringia,  had  assembled  for  the  rehear- 
sal, and  among  these,  twenty  Artistes  from  Gotha  with  their 
celebrated  Director,  Concert-Master  Spohr. 

“The  Assistants  were  partly  graduated  Musicians,  and 
Members  of  Orchestra,  partly  Dilletanti  and  Virtuosi  of  first 
rank,  each  with  his  own  instrument,  and  most  of  them  already 
familiar  with  the  “Creation”.  . . . 

“Of  this  assemblage,  the  following  Orchestra  was  formed: 
Director,  Concert -Master  Spohr;  Soprano-Solo,  Madame  Scheid - 
ler  from  Gotha;  Tenor -Solo,  “Kammer  - Singer”  Methfessel 
from  Rudolstadt;  Bass-Solo,  “Kammer-Singer”  Strohmeyer  of 
Weimar;  Organ,  Director  Fischer  and  Professor  Scheibner, 
both  of  Erfurt;  Pianiste,  Director  Krille  from  Stollberg;  Di- 
rector of  the  Chorus,  Precentor  Bischoff  of  Frankenhausen ; 
Chorists,  Soprani  28,  Alti  20,  Tenori  20,  Bassi  30.” 

Here  follow  the  names  of  all  the  Musicians,  and  a des- 
cription of  the  arrangement  of  the  Orchestra.  The  notice 
then  continues: 

„This  appropriate  and  excellent  arrangement,  by  which 
each  had  sufficient  room,  and  the  Director  constantly  in  view, 


Digitized  by  foozle 


142 


contributed  without  doubt  not  a little  after  one  rehearsal  only 
to  the  successful  execution  of  so  great  a work  of  art,  new  to 
many,  and  exceedingly  difficult,  as  was  in  particular  produced 
on  the  second  day: 

“1)  A grand  new  Overture  for  full  Orchestra  (with  bas- 
soons also)  by  Spohr.  2)  A grand  Italian  Scena  for  Bass  by 
Righini,  sung  by  Strohmeyer.  3)  A grand  new  Clarinet  Con- 
certo, written  expressly  for  this  Festival  by  Spohr , and  played 
by  Director  Hermstedt.  After  which  4)  Concert-Master  Fischer 
played  upon  the  full  Organ  an  artistic  Introduction  to  the 
last  Chorus  from  Haydn's  “Seasons”.  This  was  followed  5)  by 
a Double -Concert  for  two  Violins  (also  of  Spohr' s original- 
Composition)  played  by  himself  and  Matthdi.  6)  A grand 
Rondo  from  a Concerto  in  D-Major  by  Bernard  Romberg , ar- 
tistically played  by  Dotzauer,  and  lastly,  Beethoven’s  C-Major 
Symphony.  . . . 

“Herr  Spohr' s leading  with  a roll  of  paper,  without  the 
least  noise,  and  without  the  slightest  contortion  of  countenance, 
might  be  called  a grateful  Leading  if  that  word  were  sufficient 
to  express  the  precision  and  influence  impressed  by  his  move- 
ments upon  the  whole  mass,  strange  both  to  him  and  to  it- 
self. To  this  happy  talent  in  Herr  Spohr  I ascribe  in  great 
part  the  excellence  and  precision  — the  imposing  power,  *as 
well  as  the  soft  blending  of  this  numerous  Orchestra  with  the 
voices  of  the  Singers  in  the  execution  of  “The  Creation.” 

“The  full  toned  yet  flexible  voice  of  Madame  Scheidler , so 
well  adapted  to  a large  church,  the  expressive  execution  of 
the  Art -experienced  Herr  Methfessel,  the  magnificent  bass- 
voice  of  Herr  Strohmeyer , indisputably  the  finest  I ever  heard, 
reaching  from  Contra  D to  G on  the  second  line , ....  these 
three  Solo-Singers,  in  unison  with  so  many  distinguished  Vir- 
tuosi leading  every  Voice,  where  each  sang  or  played  volunta- 
rily and  with  pleasure,  justify  me  in  affirming  that  this  execu- 
tion of  “The  Creation”  was  the  most  powerful,  most  expressive 
and  in  a word  the  most  successful  that  I had  ever  heard 

“The  Overture  with  which  the  Concert  began  on  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


143 


following  day,  belongs  properly  considered  to  the  Master-pieces 
in  modulation.  Almost  with  every  new  bar,  one  Ingcmno  suc- 
ceeds the  other,  so  that  it  may  be  looked  upon  as  a connected 
series  of  studies  in  modulation.  Probably,  this  restlessness, 
this  vacillation,  has  reference  to  the  character  of  the  “Alruna” 
for  which  drama  this  was  written.  Great,  however  as  the 
effect  of  this  Overture  may  certainly  be  in  a Theatre,  yet 
as  Concert  - Music  it  did  not  appear  to  make  the  impress- 
ion that  might  have  been  expected  from  its  execution  by  so 
good  and  numerous  an  orchestra.  This  result  can  be  explained 
in  no  other  way  than,  in  as  much  as  continuously  disappointed 
hopes  depress  the  spirits  and  make  the  mind  uneasy,  so  a 
music  which  to  the  end  disappoints  the  expectations  of  the 
ear,  never  satisfies.  A profusion  of  crooked  and  sometimes 
rough  passages,  leading  to  no  object,  to  no  repose,  and  to  no 
further  enjoyment,  in  which  the  Composer  merely  keeps  the 
mind  of  the  hearer  in  suspense  become  at  length  wearisome. 
The  music  of  our  forefathers  200  years  ago,  consisted  of  just 
such  a profusion  of  crooked  passages,  without  resting  place  — 
of  numberless  modulations  and  sustained  terminals.  But  our 
worthy  ancestors  were  as  yet  wanting  in  the  flowers  wherewith 
to  embellish  and  make  a little  resting  place  interesting,  that 
is:  they  were  yet  wanting  in  figures  of  Melody  to  entertain 
their  hearers  agreably  in  one  Tone.  But  how  easy  would 
this  have  been  to  the  admirable  Spohr,  who  has  so  many  of 
the  beautiful  flowers.!  The  so  called  contrast  in  great  Musical 
works  is  by  no  means  to  be  despised;  and  least  of  all,  the 
more  it  is  grounded  upon  human  perception  and  feeling. 

“Of  the  effect  of  Herr  Strohmeyer’s  execution  of  the  grand 
Scena  of  Righini , it  is  here  unnecessary  to  say  any  thing  fur- 
ther, since  his  splendid  delivery  has  had  full  justice  done  to 
it  above.  Righini' s charming  Song,  and  admirable  instrumenta- 
tion are  sufficiently  known.  The  Scena  kindled  the  enthusiasm 
of  the  whole  audience. 

“ Spohr's  Clarinet-Concerto  in  E-Minor,  played  by  Hermstedt, 
is  indisputably  one  of  the  most  perfect  Artistic  Works  of  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


144 


hind . A grand  and  brilliant  handling  of  the  concerted  instru- 
ments, combined  with  a most  original  accompaniment  for  the 
Orchestra,  in  which  as  it  were  each  instrument  even  the  kettle- 
drum, .is  obligato,  and  which  for  that  reason  requires  a more 
than  usually  practised  and  attentive  Orchestra,  entitles  it  to 
be  so  considered.  The  third,  Polonaise-like  theme,  is  parti- 
cularly remarkable,  in  which  one  knows  not  whether  to  ad- 
mire most  the  brilliancy  of  the  artistic  Soli’s  or  the  admi- 
rably elaborated  Tutti’s  — in  the  latter  of  which,  the  wind 
instruments  seem  actually  to  engage  each  other  in  a Thema- 
tic struggle.  This  artistic  work  is  moreover  conspicuous  for 
the  cheerful  spirit  that  pervades  it  throughout.  The  admirable 
execution  of  this  Concerto  did  great  honour  to  the  Composer, 
the  Player  and  the  whole  Orchestra;  and  set  thousands  of 
hands  among  the  audience  in  lively  and  continuous  motion. 

“Hereupon,  Concert-Master  Fischer  surprised  the  Orchestra 
as  well  as  the  audience  not  a little,  by  falling  in  with  the  full 
Organ,  in  order  to  introduce  the  now  ensuing  chorus  of  the 
Finale,  in  C-Major.  This  novel  kind  of  Music,  of  which  nothing 
had  been  heard  at  the  rehearsal,  its  artistic  connecting  of 
the  Voices,  its  harmonious  turns  and  masterly  modulations 
made  every  member  of  the  Orchestra  doubly  attentive.  For 
some  minutes  he  may  have  entertained  the  audience  in  this 
manner,  when,  he  dwellt  upon  the  dominant,  and  to  keep  the 
expectation  yet  more  alive  for  the  entry  of  the  Chorus,  by 
means  of  a sort  of  Organ-Point,  formed  a close  at  this  inter- 
val. This  was  no  sooner  observed  by  Herr  Spohr,  than  he 
lifted  his  roll  of  paper,  and  scarcely  had  the  last  organ-tone 
ceased,  when  the  whole  Orchestra  fell  in  with  the  first  single 
chord  C of  the  Chorus ; which  C,  the  trumpets  had  then  to  sus- 
tain alone  to  the  end  of  the  bar.  This  was  executed  with  the 
greatest  punctuality.  One  of  the  trumpeters,  only,  preoccupied 
with  the  Organ  play,  had  forgotten  to  change  his  mouth  piece 
and  so  blew  on  in  E-Minor.  In  an  instant  Herr  Spohr  made 
a motion,  and  nothing  more  of  the  second  bar  was  heard 
from  the  Orchestra.  Upon  this  Herr  Fischer  instantly  fell  in 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


145 


again  with  the  Organ,  continued  his  Prelude,  and  this  time 
closed  in  form  with  the  dominant  C-Major  — just  as  if  that 
occurrence  had  been  intentionally  introduced. 

“As  no  pause  whatever  in  the  music  took  place,  so  that, 
except  by  the  Orchestra,  it  would  have  been  difficult  for  any 
one  to  have  remarked  this  oversight,  it  might  have  been  wholly 
concealed,  were  it  not  to  be  feared,  that  experienced  Musicians 
might  laugh  at  my  here  repeated  assurances  of  nothing  but 
faultless  and  successful  performances  by  an  Orchestra  collected 
from  twenty  leagues  round,  after  one  rehearsal  only,  in  the 
same  manner  as  our  present  newspaper  political  reports  are 
frequently  ridiculed. 

“After  a pause  of  about  a quarter  of  an  hour,  Herr  Spohr 
resumed  his  Violin,  Herr  Matthai  drew  nearer  to  him,  and 
now  those  two  admirable  Artistes,  by  their  perfect  execution 
of  a double  Concerto  of  Herr  Spohr  afforded  us  the  most  lively 
enjoyment  of  alternating  admiration,  astonishment  and  plea- 
sure. They  seemed  frequently  in  open  feud  for  superority  in 
artistic  execution,  then  became  as  it  were  reconciled  and  poured 
forth  together  the  most  harmonious  roulades  upon  the  liste- 
ners. The  precision,  and  the  rapidity  with  which  they  took 
up  and  combined  their  respective  tones,  was  worthy  of  admi- 
ration. The  quite  original  Adagio  of  this  masterly  work  which 
now  followed,  commenced  with  a Trio  for  two  Violincellos, 
impressively  performed  by  Herren  Preissing  and  Muller , and 
for  a Contra  -Bass,  by  Herr  Wach  of  Leipsic.  When  these 
three  had  ended  their  soft  melodious  play,  a Quodro  in  long 
drawn  and  tied  chords,  as  though* from  a Harmonica,  but 
somewhat  deeper,  was  heard.  It  had  a thrilling,  and  sweet 
effect.  Everybody  looked  round  to  the  Bassi  and  Violi,  from 
which  this  heavenly  harmony  seemed  to  have  in  part  proceeded, 
but  every  arm  was  still,  and  the  bows  of  Herren  Spohr  and 
Matthai  moved  alone.  It  was  they  alone,  also,  who  had  played 
that  Quadro  — and  with  a purity,  that  upon  the  taking  up 
of  the  Con-sonants  after  releasing  the  ties,  the  ear  was  fre- 
quently moved  with  a singularly  deep  felt  charm.  After  a 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  L jq 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


146 


second  similar  Violincello-trio , the  Quadro  of  the  two  Con- 
certo-voices recommenced,  and  proceeded  to  the  close.  The 
last  Thesis  accorded  fully  with  the  science  and  beauty  of  the 
first. 

“Upon  this,  Herr  Dotzauer  advanced  to  the  front  music- 
desk,  and  played,  owing  probably  to  the  shortness  of  the  re- 
maining time,  a Rondo , but  a Rondo  of  masterly  elaboration 
and  very  difficult,  from  a Violincello- Concerto  in  D-Major  by 
Bernard  Romberg , with  an  execution,  roundness  and  force 
in  the  sustained  passages,  and  with  a lightness,  purity,  ex- 
pression, and  silvery  tone  in  the  melodic  parts  of  the  higher 
octaves,  that  in  his  performance  of  this  Rondo  alone,  he  dis- 
played in  the  most  admirable  manner  his  great  mastery  of  his 
instrument. 

“ Beethoven's  Symphony  in  C-Major;  indisputably  his  most 
pleasing  and  popular  one,  formed  the  conclusion.  It  could  not 
have  been  executed  with  more  grace,  fire  and  precision.  The  Cho- 
rus of  wind  instruments  in  the  Trio  of  the  Minuett  afforded  par- 
ticular enjoyment.  One  imagined  to  hear  the  tones  of  an  ex- 
ceedingly pure  harmonica.  A general  and  long  continued  ap- 
plause evinced  the  thanks  and  satisfaction  of  the  audience  with 
the  choice  of  the  masterly  compositions  performed,  and  with 
the  manner  inwhich  they  had  been  executed  by  the  assembled 
artists. 

“Though  we  commenced  by  adverting  to  the  difficulties 
which  had  been  surmounted  by  the  gentleman  who  carried  out 
this  undertaking,  both  in  the  arrangements  for  the  mental  and 
bodily  recreation  of  his  numerous  guests,  we  feel  it  a duty  to 
add  yet  something  in  respect  to  the  latter,  a by  no  means  easy 
thing  to  effect  in  so  small  a town. 

“The  hundred  Chorists  were  distributed  among  the  dif- 
ferent Inns,  where  they  found  both  bed  and  board.  “The 
whole  of  the  Virtuosi,  Singers  and  Dilettanti  were  on  the 
other  hand  received  into  respectable  private  houses.  But 
in  order  to  render  the  stay  of  the  kind  lovers  of  Music  who 
had  met  together  from  such  distant  places,  as  agreable  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


147 


them  as  possible,  Herr  Bischoff  had  made  a sacrifice  of  the 
flower  garden  immediately  behind  his  house,  and  converted 
it  into  a Dining-room.  The  Saloon  erected  for  this  pur- 
pose was  decorated  with  green  branches  the  pleasing  freshness 
of  whose  verdure  seemed  a friendly  welcome  to  the  company. 

“In  this  Saloon,  the  tables  were  laid  out,  and  the  repasts 
served.  It  was  a pleasure  to  behold  so  many  worthy  Artists 
and  Lovers  of  Art  assembled  here  for  one  and  the  same  pur- 
pose, proceeding  thence  to  their  labour  of  Love,  and  return- 
ing therefrom  to  meet  here  anew  for  cheerful  enjoyment,  and 
to  pay  unanimous  and  hearty  tribute  to  the  great  father  Haydn , 
the  excellent  Spohr  and  many  other  first  rate  Artists  in 
brimming  glasses.  The  hilarity  of  the  supper  table  was  ge- 
nerally heightened  by  lively  and  well  sung  songs.  Fine  voices 
joined,  and  sang  Quartetts  and  Canons;  Herr  Methfessel  taking 
his  guitar  would  entertain  the  company  with  pleasing  Ballads, 
and  touching  Romances  of  his  own  Composition;  by  way  of 
change,  he  then  sang  a Comic  Song,  or  two,  and  exhibited 
his  liveliness  of  fancy,  his  richness  of  invention*  wit,  and  hu- 
mour of  expression,  as  well  as  his  intimate  knowledge  of  tone 
and  harmony.  Herr  Hachmeister , the  Assessor  of  mines  from 
Clausthal  taking  then  the  guitar  from  him  in  turn,  charmed 
the  company  with  National  Songs  in  the  Thuringian  dialect, 
replete  with  such  wit  and  humour  as  compelled  the  hearer 
despite  himself,  to  laugh  at  the  cares  of  life.” 

I and  my  wife,  made  many  agreable  acquaintances  among 
the  artistes  and  friends  of  Art  then  assembled  in  Franken- 
hausen,  among  others,  that  of  Amtsrath  Liider  of  Catlenburg, 
who  up  to  the  present  time  has  remained  one  of  my  most 
intimated  friends.  Liider  then  resided  in  the  neighbourhood 
of  Bremen  and  was  upon  a journey  of  business  to  Berlin.  On 
arriving  at  the  foot  of  the  Hartz  mountains,  his  postillion  in- 
formed him  of  the  approaching  Musical  Festival  in  Franken- 
hausen  and  pictured  to  him  in  so  attractive  a shape  the  Mu- 
sical treat  that  was  to  be  expected  there,  that  Liider  imme- 
diately made  him  diverge  from  the  road,  and  take  the  direc- 
tor 


Digitized  by  Google 


148 


tion  of  Frankenhausen.  Arrived  there,  his  first  care  was  to 
enquire  for  me,  to  ask  permission  to  be  present  at  all  the 
rehearsals.  This  was  not  only  very  readily  granted,  but  I 
also  invited  my  new  acquaintance  whose  enthusiasm  for  Art 
greatly  pleased  me,  to  join  our  meetings  under  the  tent  at 
dinner  and  supper.  Here  in  the  hours  intervening  between 
the  rehearsals  and  the  performances,  amid  artistic  enjoyments 
seasoned  with  lively  sallies  of  wit  and  good  humour,  a social 
intercourse  sprang  up  so  delightful , that  all  who  shared  in 
it  will  assuredly  have  looked  back  upon  it  with  the  greatest 
satisfaction.  A small  circle  of  similarly  minded  enthusiasts 
for  Art  had  especially  gathered  round  me,  and  we  soon  be- 
came so  mutually  attached,  that  after  the  close  of  the  Festival 
it  became  difficult  to  separate,  and  an  excursion  together  to 
the  Kyffhauser  was  determined  upon.  On  this  mountain-ex- 
cursion which  was  favoured  by  the  most  beautiful  weather,  it 
was  the  Singer  Methfessel  from  Rudolstadt,  who  more  parti- 
cularly kept  the  eompany  in  the  merriest  mood  by  his  in- 
exhaustible humour.  I still  remember  with  great  pleasure 
an  improvised  Capucin-  sermon  which  he  preached  from  the 
chancel  of  a ruined  cloister,  in  which  he  interwove  in  a half 
serious,  half  comical  manner  the  chief  incidents  of  the  Musi- 
cal-festival. From  the  summit  of  the  Kyffhauser,  he  sang 
also  the  praise  of  the  Emperor  Barbarossa,  and  urged  him  to 
a speedy  resurrection  for  the  final  enfranchisement  of  Germany.  * 

* According  to  the  ancient  legend,  the  belief  in  which  was  once  po- 
pular throughout  Germany;  Frederick  Barbarossa,  seated  at  a stone  table 
in  the  vaulted  tower  of  the  Imperial  Castle  of  the  Kyffhauser.  awaits  since 
GOO  years  the  hour  of  Germany’s  regeneration,  in  order  to  reappear  once 
more  in  the  vigour  of  life,  prepared  for  new  works  and  achievements  for 
the  glory  and  well  being  of  a united  Germany.  The  red  beard  of  the 
Emperor  grows  round  the  table  of  stone  in  front  of  him,  and  so  soon  as 
it  has  wholly  grown  round  it  for  the  third  time,  Frederick  will  awake. 
His  first  act  will  then  produce  a syml>ol  of  his  further  mission.  He  will 
hang  his  shield  upon  a withered  tree,  which  will  then  suddenly  shoot 
out  its  buds  and  leaves  again,  till  it  is  covered  anew  with  verdant  life 
and  beauty!  Such  is  the  legend,  the  origin  of  which  dates  far  back  into 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


149 


Arrived  again  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain,  the  new  friends 
were  reluctantly  obliged  to  part,  and  each  returned  to  his 
home  highly  gratified. 

I immediately  resumed  the  composition  of  my  Opera,  and 
finished  it  in  the  course  of  the  winter  of  1810 — 1811.  Be- 
sides this,  in  my  catalogue  appears  the  following  Works  at 
this  period:  A Violin-concerto  afterwards  published  by  Pe- 
ters, a Sonata  for  Harp  and  Violin  (Op,  114,  by  Schuberth ) 
and  an  Italian  aria,  alia  Polacca,  with  Violin  Obligato,  which 
was  never  engraved.  I wrote  the  latter  at  the  request  of 
Prince  Frederick  von  Gotha,  brother  of  the  Duke,  who  gifted 
with  a pleasing  tenor  voice,  frequently  sang  in  the  Court- 
concerts,  and  much  wished  to  have  an  Air  with  Violin  ac- 
companiment of  my  composition.  It  was  frequently  sung, 
particularly  when  visitors  were  at  court. 

The  Prince  was  an  amiable  well  meaning  man,  who  in- 
terested himself  in  Music  much  more  than  his  brother,  and  who, 
with  the  Dutchess,  kept  alive  the  interest  for  the  Court -con- 
certs. Unfortunately  he  was  subject  to  an  incurable  complaint, 
epilepsy,  with  which  he  was  seized  every  fourteen  days,  (in 
later  years,  still  more  frequently)  which  kept  him  down  from 
12  to  15  hours  at  a time.  He  was  then  deprived  of  the  use 
of  all  his  limbs,  and  the  organs  of  speech  and  the  muscles 
of  his  face  were  the  only  parts  that  remained  unaffected. 
During  these  dreadful  attacks  he  would  lie  in  bed  as  motion- 
less as  a corpse ; but  was  always  pleased  when  any  one  visited 
him,  and  entertained  him  with  conversation.  From  the  con- 
tinual recurrence  of  these  attacks  he  had  become  so  accustomed 
to  his  condition,  that  he  could  be  quite  cheerful  during  their 
duration.  His  physicians  considered  that  a milder  climate 

the  middle  a gee,  and  must  be  considered  as  a long  subsisting  expression 
of  that  yearning  of  the  popular  mind  in  Germany  which  under  long  en- 
during circumstances  of  political  oppression  looked  towards  the  future  with 
hopes  of  enfranchisement  and  relief,  and  whieh  associated  those  hopes  and 
aspirations  with  the  memory  of  an  hononred  name. 

(Note  of  Translator.) 


Digitized  by  Google 


150 


would  be  most  likely  to  cure  him,  and  lor  that  reason  sent 
him  to  Italy.  I met  him  in  Rome  during  my  tour  in  Italy 
in  1816;  and  mention  will  therefore  be  frequently  made  of  him 
at  that  part  of  my  narrative. 

In  the  spring  of  1811,  the  Precentor  Bischoff  again  paid 
me  a visit,  and  invited  me  to  conduct  a second  grand  Musi- 
cal Festival  which  he  intended  giving  in  Frankenhausen.  He 
also  begged  me  to  play  a Violin-Concerto  on  the  second  day 
of  the  Concert,  and  to  write  a grand  Symphony  for  the  opening. 
Although  I had  not  yet  attempted  that  kind  of  Musical  com- 
position, I acceded  with  pleasure  to  his  request. 

In  this  manner  the  opportunity  presented  itself  for  another 
interesting  task,  and  I immediately  set  about  it  with  spirit. 
Although  hitherto  it  had  been  usual  with  me  to  lose  after  a 
time  all  taste  for  my  first  essays  in  a new  style  of  Com- 
position, this  Symphony  was  an  exception  to  the  rule,  for 
it  has  pleased  me  even  in  after  years.  As  I had  previously 
practised  it  very  carefully  with  my  Orchestra,  which  was  com- 
posed of  the  tlite  of  the  Frankenhausen  Orchestra,  although 
we  could  have  but  one  rehearsal  of  it,  it  was  nevertheless 
executed  in  an  admirable  manner  at  the  Festival,  and  met, 
particularly  from  those  who  took  part  in  it,  with  an  enthu- 
siastic reception.  I felt  highly  gratified  at  this,  more  even 
than  at  the  applause  I gained  as  Solo -player.  In  Leipsic 
also,  where  the  Symphony  was  executed  in  the  Drapers’-House- 
Concert,  it  met  with  great  approbation,  as  is  shewn  in  a no- 
tice of  the  Musical  Journal,  which  says:  “ Spokr’s  new  and 
yet  unpublished  Symphony  excited  the  interest  and  admiration 
of  all  real  lovers  of  music.  Both  in  invention  and  elabora- 
tion, we  consider  it  not  only  to  surpass  all  that  we  know  of 
the  Orchestral -Music  of  this  Master,  but  confess  also,  that 
for  many  years  we  have  scarcely  heard  a new  work  of  this 
kind,  which  possesses  so  much  novelty  and  originality,  without 
singularity  and  affection;  so  much  richness  and  science,  with- 
out artifice  and  bombast.  We  may  therefore  confidently  pre- 
dict, that  when  published,  it  will  become  a favorite  piece  with 


Digitized  by  Google 


151 


every  great  and  skilled  Orchestra,  and  with  all  serious  and 
cultivated  Auditories;  but  it  requires  both.” 

Besides  this  Symphony,  I had  also  written  for  the  Musi- 
cal Festival  at  Hermstedt’s  earnest  solicitation,  Variations  for 
the  Clarinet,  with  Orchestral  accompaniment,  upon  themes 
from  the  * Opferfest ” which  he  performed  with  his  usual  skill. 
This  Composition,  (published  by  Schlesinger  in  Berlin  as  Op.  80) 
which  carries  out  those  themes  with  a more  artistic  Fantasia- 
like freedom,  than  as  Variations,  were  greatly  admired  by 
Musicians  and  connoisseurs. 

On  the  afternoon  of  the  second  day,  the  Musical  Festival 
was  followed  by  a family  fete  in  the  house  of  the  projector.  A 
few  weeks  before,  a son  had  been  born  to  him,  who  was  now 
christened.  He  had  invited  the  whole  of  the  assistants  to  be 
godfathers,  who  now  in  holiday  attire  ranged  themselves  round 
the  altar  at  the  church.  I held  the  infant  son  over  the 
baptismal  font,  and  gave  him  my  name  “Louis”.  When  the 
clergyman  put  the  question  to  me  and  the  other  godfathers, 
whether  we  would  take  care  that  the  child  should  receive  a 
Christian  education,  a solemn  “Yes”  from  full  three  hundred 
voices  echoed  through  the  church.  A Chorus  executed  by  the 
singers,  with  Organ  accompaniment,  terminated  the  holy  ce- 
remony. 

At  this  second  Festival  my  gratification  was  still  more 
enhanced  by  the  presence  of  my  parents  among  the  auditory, 
and  that  they  took  a lively  part  in  the  social  gaieties  under 
the  tent.  The  projector  was  no  less  satisfied  with  his  specu- 
lation, and  thus  this  Festival  terminated  like  that  of  the  pre- 
vious year,  to  the  satisfaction  of  all. 

Shortly  after  my  return,  I received  intelligence  from  Ham- 
burgh that  my  Opera,  which  I had  sent  in  in  the  spring, 
had  been  at  length  distributed  and  that  its  representation 
would  take  place  in  the  first  days  of  November.  I therefore 
applied  for  a month's  leave  of  absence  for  myself  and  wife,  and 
set  out  with  her,  in  the  middle  of  October,  via  Hanover,  where 
I intended  giving  a concert.  As  this  was  the  first  Opera  of 


Digitized  by  foozle 


152 


mine  that  was  to  be  represented , I was  in  a state  of  great 
anxiety.  The  shock  I felt  may  therefore  be  readily  imagined, 
upon  receiving  a letter  in  Hanover  from  the  manager  Schro- 
dery  informing  me  that  the  Opera  would  not  be  produced,  be- 
cause the  Prima  Donna  Madame  Becker  refused  to  take  the 
part  assigned  to  her,  and  that  according  to  the  theatrical  laws 
she  was  perfectly  justified  in  doing  so. 

The  matter  was  in  this  wise:  Previous  to  beginning  my 
work,  I had  certainly  taken  pains  to  inquire  of  Herr  Schwenke 
respecting  the  range  of  voice  and  the  capabilities  of  the  Ham- 
burgh singers,  and  in  accordance  therewith,  I had  constructed 
the  chief  parts  of  the  opera.  But  as  I was  without  all  ex- 
perience in  these  things,  I had  neglected  to  ascertain  the  per- 
sonal appearance  of  the  singers,  so  that,  for  Madame  Becker , 
a small,  delicate  figure,  I had  written  the  part  of  Donna  Isa- 
bella, who  seeks  for  her  faithless  lover  at  the  Court  of  Prin- 
cess Matilda  disguised  in  man's  clothes,  and  at  last  challenges 
him  to  mortal  combat  armed  cap-a-pied  as  a knight.  So  long 
as  Madame  Becker , knew  no  more  about  the  Opera  than  her 
part,  she  was  highly  satisfied  and  began  to  practice  with  great 
zeal.  But  as  soon  as  she  had  read  the  libretto,  she  declared, 
that  she  could  not  undertake  the  part,  as  she  would  make 
herself  perfectly  ridiculous.  Exceedingly  annoyed  at  my  mis- 
take I set  off  for  Hamburgh,  to  remedy  it  wherever  possible, 
and  to  induce  the  representation  of  the  opera.  I found  old 
Schroder  in  very  low  spirits,  and  exceedingly  dissatisfied  with 
his  theatrical  untertaking.  But  he  had  every  reason  to  be  so. 
Several  of  the  performers  had  failed  to  make  their  appearance, 
others  came  too  late,  and  some  had  not  answered  the  expec- 
tations entertained  of  them;  his  new  Plays  and  Comedies  had 
not  been  very  successful,  and  empty  houses  had  been  the  re- 
sult. Of  the  four  Operas  which  he  had  Music  written  for,  two 
were  already  laid  aside,  because  they  had  displeased.  The 
one  composed  by  Winter : “Die  Pantoffeln ” had  lived  through 
some  few  thinly  attended  representations;  that  of  Closing: 
“ Welcher  ist  der  Rechte?n  had  been  withdrawn  from  the  Re- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


153 


pertoire  immediately  after  the  first  night,  for  in  spite  of  the 
strenuous  efforts  of  Closing's  numerous  friends  it  was  a com- 
plete failure. 

With  such  disappointments  , it  was  not  to  be  wondered 
that  the  old  grumbler  should  be  mistrustful  of  my  Opera  also, 
and  the  more  so  since  the  most  favorite  singer  of  his  theatre 
would  not  lend  her  aid.  But  when  he  offered  me  payment  of 
the  sum  agreed  for  it,  and  at  the  same  time  laid  it  aside  with- 
out having  given  it  a trial,  I was  much  hurt  and  protested 
against  it  in  the  most  positive  manner.  At  length  after  much 
entreaty,  I obtained  Schroder's  consent  that  I should  make 
a trial  of  it  with  another  singer,  who  hitherto  had  played  only 
in  secondary  characters,  and  practise  her  in  the  role  refused 
by  Madame  Becker . In  this  singer,  a Madame  Lichtenheld , I 
found  great  willingness  and  natural  capacity,  and  when  I had 
simplified  the  most  difficult  bravura  passages  of  the  part  to 
her  powers  of  execution,  I succeeded  well  with  her.  Thus  at 
length  the  rehearsals  could  be  commenced,  and  when  Schro- 
der had  heard  one,  and  had  become  convinced  that  Madame 
Lichtenheld  would  fill  the  part  satisfactorily,  the  first  repre- 
sentation was  announced  for  the  15.  November.  My  former 
musical  acquaintances  one  and  all,  including  Romberg  and 
Prell , offered  their  services  to  me  in  the  two  representations 
in  which  I was  to  lead  the  orchestra.  Hermstedt , also,  who 
had  come  to  Hamburgh  to  give  a Concert  with  my  support, 
joined  them,  and  undertook  the  First  Clarinet  part,  for  which 
there  were  some  telling  Soli’s  and  a concerted  accompaniment 
or  a Soprano-air.  With  the  aid  of  these  distinguished  artists 
the  Orchestra  was  considerably  strengthened,  and  as  the  Sin- 
gers and  the  Chorus  were  likewise  well  practised,  I was  al- 
ready greatly  pleased  with  the  precision  with  which  my  music 
was  performed  in  the  rehearsals,  and  therefore  entertained  the 
most  lively  hopes  that  the  Opera  would  please.  Nevertheless 
on  the  evening  of  the  representation,  it  was  not  without  fresh 
anxiety  that  I took  my  place  at  my  desk,  for  it  had  come  to 
my  ears  that,  Closing's  friends  would  evince  an  inimical  feeling 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


154 


towards  me  in  revenge  for  the  failure  of  his  opera.  But  when 
the  music  had  begun,  I thought  of  that  alone,  and  forgot 
every  thing  else  around  me.  The  applause  with  which  the 
Overture  was  received,  shewed  me,  nevertheless,  that  the  un- 
friendly party  would  not  make  any  demonstration;  and  so  it 
proved.  " Almost  every  piece  was  applauded,  and  the  appro- 
bation increased  yet  more  towards  the  end  of  the  opera. 
Upon  the  fall  of  the  curtain  a long  sustained  storm  of  applause 
was  given  to  the  composer. 

I ought  now  to  have  been  very  happy,  but  was  by  no 
means  so.  Already  at  the  first  rehearsal  some  things  in  my 
music  had  displeased  me.  At  every  fresh  rehearsal  these  were 
increased  by  something  new,  and  before  the  actual  represen- 
tation, the  half  of  my  Opera  had  become  distasteful  to  me. 
I now  thought  I well  knew  how  I could  have  made  it  better, 
and  was  greatly  annoyed  that  I had  not  discovered  it  before. 
Yes,  indeed,  had  my  work  appeared  to  me  in  that  light  on 
my  arrival  at  Hamburgh,  I should  have  made  no  opposition 
to  Schroder's  intention  to  lay  it  aside  unperformed.  But  my 
musical  friends  were  of  a different  opinion;  they  were  exceed- 
ingly pleased  with  this  work,  and  wished  me  every  further 
success.  Schwenke  wrote  a full  and  very  laudatory  criticism 
of  the  Opera,  wherein  he  adroitly  combated  the  well  founded 
opinion  of  its  opponents,  that  it  contained  many  reminiscences 
of  the  Operas  of  Mozart,  and  while  admitting  that  the  form  of 
the  musical  pieces  as  well  as  the  whole  design  recalled  Mozart , 
he  assigned  that,  as  a recommendatory  feature  and  proof  of 
its  excellence.  By  this,  made  watchful  of  myself,  I became  sen- 
sible of  the  necessity  to  break  myself  of  it,  and  think  that  I 
already  fully  effected  it  in  “Faust”  my  next  Dramatic  work. 

With  my  permission,  Schwenke  had  some  time  before 
made  a Piano-forte  arrangement  from  the  Opera,  which  was 
now  published  by  Bohm  in  Hamburgh,  and  soon  found  an 
extensive  circulation. 

Of  the  Concert  which  I then  gave  in  Hamburgh  with  my 
wife  and  Ilermstedt,  I recollect  but  little  more  than  that  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


155 


latter  created  a great  sensation  by  his  highly  cultivated  skill. 
But  I have  a clearer  recollection  of  another  Concert  in  Altona, 
at  which  we  and  several  of  our  Hamburgh  friends  assisted, 
and  in  which  all  manner  of  little  misfortunes  befell  us,  which 
afterwards  afforded  matter  for  much  merriment. 

This  Concert  was  given  by  a rich  Musical  - amateur  of 
Altona,  who  invited  the  assistants  from  Hamburgh  to  a luxu- 
rious dinner.  After  the  company  had  been  at  table  for  two 
hours,  and  addressed  themselves  diligently  to  the  champaign, 
they  became  so  merry  and  forgetful , that  nobody  gave  a 
thought  to  the  Concert  that  was  to  follow.  The  terror  there- 
fore was  general,  when  a Messenger  suddenly  appeared,  and 
announced  that  the  numerous  Audience  which  had  assembled 
was  become  impatient  and  demanded  the  opening  of  the 
concert  All  now  hurried  to  the  Concert  saloon;  although  in 
reality  no  one  was  any  longer  in  a fit  state  to  make  a pub- 
lic appearance.  It  was  especially  remarkable  that,  those  who 
were  usually  the  most  timid  had  now  become  the  most  coura- 
geous. The  Altona  dilettanti-Orchestra,  who  were  to  serve  as 
nucleus  and  support  to  the  Hamburgh  Artists,  were  already 
in  their  places,  and  the  Concert  immediately  began  with  an 
Overture  by  Romberg  who  conducted  it  himself.  He,  who  was 
unjustly  accused  of  taking  the  tempi  of  his  Compositions  too 
slow,  hurried  the  Allegro  of  his  Overture  this  time  so  much, 
that  the  poor  Dilettanti  could  not  keep  up  with  him.  Little 
therefore  was  wanting  for  the  whole  thing  to  break  down 
from  the  very  overture.  My  wife  and  I were  then  to  follow 
with  a Sonata  for  harp  and  violin,  which  as  usual  we  were 
about  to  play  without  notes.  Just  as  we  had  seated  ourselves, 
and  I was  about  to  begin,  my  wife,  who  at  all  other  times 
was  self- possession  itself,  whispered  anxiously  to  me:  “For 
Heaven’s  sake,  Louis , I cannot  remember  which  Sonata  we 
are  to  play,  nor  how  it  begins!”  I hummed  softly  in  her 
ear  the  commencement  of  it,  and  restored  to  her  the  necessary 
calmness  and  self-possession.  Our  Play  now  proceeded  with- 
out mishap  to  the  end,  and  was  received  with  great  applause. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


156 


It  was  now  Madame  Becker's  turn  to  sing  an  Air,  and  Rom- 
berg  had  just  led  her  forward  to  the  raised  platform  of  the 
Orchestra,  when  to  the  great  astonishment  of  the  public,  she 
all  at  once  ran  off,  and  disappeared  in  the  room  adjoining. 
Dorette,  allarmed  lest  she  should  have  been  taken  suddenly 
ill,  hastened  after  her.  But,  both  shortly  reappeared,  and  I 
now  ascertained  from  my  wife,  that  Madame  Becker  had  found 
her  breath  too  short  from  the  effects  of  the  dinner,  and  was 
therefore  obliged  to  have  her  clothes  loosened  before  she 
could  sing. 

Hermstedt,  now  followed  with  a difficult  composition  of 
mine.  He,  who  always  when  appearing  in  public,  went  to 
work  with  the  most  nervous  precision  in  every  thing,  em- 
boldened now  to  rashness  by  the  fumes  of  the  champaign,  had 
screwed  on  a new  and  untried  plate  to  the  mouthpiece  of  his 
Clarinet,  and  even  spoke  vauntingly  of  it  to  me  as  I mounted 
the  platform  of  the  orchestra.  I immediately  anticipated  no 
good  from  it.  The  Solo  of  my  composition  began  with  a 
long  sustained  note,  which  Hermstedt  pitched  almost  inaudibly, 
and  by  degrees  encreased  to  an  enormous  power,  with  which 
he  always  produced  a great  sensation.  This  time  he  began 
also  in  the  same  way,  and  the  public  listened  to  the  increasing 
volume  of  tone  with  wrapt  expectancy.  But  just  as  he  was 
about  to  encrease  it  to  the  highest  power,  the  plate  twisted, 
and  gave  out  a mis-tone,  resembling  the  shrill  cry  of  a goose. 
The  public  laughed,  and  the  now  suddenly  sobered  Virtuoso 
turned  deadly  pale  with  horror.  He  nevertheless  soon  reco- 
vered himself,  and  executed  the  remainder  with  his  usual 
brilliancy,  so  that  there  was  no  want  of  enthusiastic  applause 
at  the  end. 

But  with  poor  Schwenke  it  fared  worse  than  all.  The 
waist-buckle  of  his  pantaloons  had  given  way  during  the  din- 
ner, without  his  being  aware  of  it.  When  therefore  he  had 
mounted  into  the  orchestra  to  take  the  Viol -part  in  a Pot- 
Pourri  with  Quartett- accompaniment  which  I played  at  the 
close  of  the  Concert,  shortly  after  he  had  begun  to  play,  he 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


157 


felt  his  pantaloons  begin  to  slip  with  every  movement  he 
made  in  bow-ing.  Much  too  conscientious  a Musician,  to  omit 
a note  of  his  part,  he  patiently  waited  for  the  pauses,  to  pull 
up  his  nethergarment  again.  His  predicament  did  not  long 
escape  the  notice  of  the  public,  and  occasioned  considerable 
merriment.  But  towards  the  close  of  the  Pot-Pourri,  when  a 
Vie  movement  shook  him  so  roughly,  that  the  downward  ten- 
tency  of  his  pantaloons  made  serious  progress,  and  threatened 
to  exceed  the  limits  of  propriety,  the  public  could  no  longer 
restrain  itself,  and  broke  out  into  a general  titter.  By  this 
untoward  interruption  of  the  execution  of  my  Solo,  1 was  thus 
dragged  also,  into  the  general  calamity  of  the  day. 

On  my  return  to  Gotha,  I found  a letter  from  Bischoff , 
in  which  he  informed  me  that  he  had  been  commanded  by 
the  Governor  of  Erfurt  to  make  arrangements  for  a grand 
Musical  Festival  there,  in  the  ensuing  summer,  in  celebration 
of  the  birthday  of  Napoleon,  August  15.  He  had  already 
agreed  with  him  as  to  the  terms,  and  now  asked  me  to  unter- 
take  its  direction,  and  to  write  a new  Oratorio  for  the  first 
day.  I had  long  desired  to  try  for  once,  something  in  the 
Oratorio-style,  also,  and  readily  consented  to  the  proposal.  A 
young  poet  in  Erfurt  had  already  offered  me  the  text  of  an 
Oratorio,  in  which  I had  found  several  grand  passages  for 
composition.  It  was  called:  “The  last  Judgement.” 

I sent  for  the  libretto,  and  set  to  work  at  once.  But  I 
soon  felt  that  for  the  Oratorio  - style  I was  yet  too  deficient 
in  Counter-point  and  in  Fugeing;  I therefore  suspended  my 
work,  in  order  to  make  the  preliminary  studies  requisite  for 
the  subject.  From  one  of  my  pupils  I borrowed  Marpurg’s 
“Art  of  Fuge  writing”  and  was  soon  deeply  and  continuously 
engaged  in  the  study  of  that  work.  After  I had  written  half 
a dozen  Fugues  according  to  its  instructions,  the  last  of  which 
seemed  to  me  very  successful;  I resumed  the  composition  of 
my  Oratorio,  and  completed  it  without  allowing  any  thing 
else  to  intervene.  According  to  a memorandum  I made,  it 
was  begun  in  January  1812,  and  finished  in  June.  There 


Digitized  by  Google 


158 


would  not  therefore  have  been  sufficient  time  to  write  it  out 
and  practise  it  before  the  performance,  had  1 not  sent  the 
two  first  parts  of  the  work  to  Bischoff,  immediately  after  their 
completion.  By  that  means,  not  only  could  the  Choruses  be 
carefully  practised  in  it,  but  I had  also  sufficient  time  to  study 
the  Orchestral-parts  with  my  own  orchestra,  which  was  again 
to  form  the  nucleus  of  the  great  Erfurt  orchestra.  In  this 
manner,  although  the  work  is  a very  difficult  one,  I was  en- 
abled after  one  general  rehearsal  only,  to  effect  a tolerably 
successful  performance  of  it.  One  of  the  Solo-singers,  alone, 
who  sang  the  part  of  Satan,  did  not  give  me  satisfaction. 
This  part  which  was  written  with  a powerful  instrumentation, 
I gave  by  the  advice  of  Bischoff  to  a village  schoolmaster  in 
the  neighbourhood  of  Gotha,  who  was  celebrated  throughout 
the  whole  district  for  his  colossal  bass -voice.  In  power  of 
voice  he  had  indeed  quite  sufficient  to  outroar  a whole  Or- 
chestra, but  in  science,  and  in  Music,  he  could  by  no  means 
execute  the  part  in  a satisfactory  manner.  I taught  and  prac- 
tised him  in  the  part  myself,  and  took  great  pains  to  assist 
him  a little,  but  without  much  success.  For  when  the  day  of 
public  trial  came,  he  had  totally  forgotten  every  instruction, 
and  admonition,  and  gave  such  loose  to  his  barbarian  voice, 
that  he  first  of  all  frightened  the  auditory,  and  then  set  them 
in  a roar  of  laughter. 

From  overstraining  his  voice,  he  moreover  almost  always 
intonated  too  high,  and  by  that  spoiled  several  of  the  most 
effective  parts  of  the  oratorio.  I suffered  intensely  from  this, 
and  my  pleasure  in  my  composition  was  greatly  embittered. 
Nevertheless  it  gave  general  satisfaction,  and  was  most  favour- 
ably spoken  of  in  a detailed  notice  of  the  Musical  Festival 
in  one  of  the  Thuringian  newspapers.  Another  criticism  which 
appeared  in  a South-German  (if  I am  not  mistaken  a Franc- 
fort  Journal)  found  on  the  other  hand  much  to  cavil  with  in 
the  work,  and  was  altogether  written  in  a bitter  and  male- 
volent tone.  For  many  years  I suspected  this  malicious  cri- 
ticism was  written  by  Counsellor  Andre  of  Offenbach,  as  he 


Digitized  by 


Google 


159 


was  present  at  the  Festival  with  two  of  his  pupils,  Arnold  and 
Aloys  Schmidt . What  induced  me  to  suspect  him  of  it,  al- 
though Andre  had  expressed  himself  to  me  personally  in  praise 
of  the  work,  I now  no  longer  remember;  and  in  later  years 
when  I questioned  him  on  the  subject,  he  assured  me  that  he 
was  not  the  author.  I,  myself,  not  only  considered  the  work 
the  best  I had  written  up  to  that  time,  but  I thought  I 
had  never  heard  any  thing  finer.  Even  to  this  day  I like  so 
much  some  of  the  choruses  and  Fuges,  as  well  as  the  part  of 
Satan,  that  I could  almost  pronounce  them  to  be  the  most 
grand  of  all  I ever  wrote.  Not  so,  however,  with  the  other 
themes  particularly  with  the  Soli -parts  of  Jesus  and  Mary. 
These  are  wholly  written  in  the  Cantata  style  of  that  day 
and  overladen  with  bravoura  and  ornamental  passages.  Shortly 
afterwards,  also,  I felt  the  impropriety  of  this  style,  and  in 
later  years  frequently  resolved  to  re-write  those  Soli  parts. 
But  when  about  to  begin,  it  seemed  to  me  as  though  I could 
no  longer  enter  into  the  spirit  of  the  subject,  and  so  it  re- 
mained undone.  To  publish  the  work  as  it  was  I could  not 
make  up  my  mind.  Thus  in  later  years  it  has  lain  by  with 
out  any  use  being  made  of  it. 

As  the  above  mentioned  Festival  in  honour  of  Napoleon’s 
birth-day  was  the  last  that  took  place  in  Erfurt  and  in  Ger- 
many just  before  the  Russian  Campaign,  it  was  considered  to 
have  been  ominous,  that  the  principal  Musical  piece  then  per- 
formed should  have  been  “the  last  Judgement”. 

* * 

* 

In  the  Autumn  of  1812  I again  applied  for  a leave  of 
absence  for  myself  and  wife,  which  after  some  reluctance  on 
the  part  of  the  Dutchess  was  granted.  We  this  time  directed 
our  journey  to  Vienna  as  the  least  disturbed  by  the  war,  and 
the  passage  of  troops.  Our  first  stay  was  at  Leipsic,  where 
we  assisted  at  a Concert  given  by  Hermstedt , and  where  I 
afterwards  performed  my  new  oratorio.  Of  this  the  Musical 
Journal  speaks  in  the  following  manner: 


Digitized  by  foozle 


160 


“Herr  Hermstedt's  Concert  as  regards  the  Compositions 
executed,  was  one  of  the  most  attractive  that  could  be  heard. 
With  the  exception  of  Mozart's  Overture,  and  the  Scena  by 
Righini,  all  the  pieces  were  of  the  composition  of  Concert- 
Master  Spohr,  and  with  the  exception  of  the  Clarinet  - Con- 
certo, all  newly  written.  This  Concerto,  the  first  in  C-Minor, 
and,  as  a Composition,  the  most  brilliant  of  all  Concerti  for 
that  instrument,  was  again  listened  to  with  great  satisfaction. 
A grand  Sonata  for  Violin  and  Harp,  played  by  Herr  and 
Madame  Spohr , the  leading  theme  of  which  must  be  pro- 
nounced masterly  in  conception  and  elaboration,  and  the  se- 
cond, consisting  of  a delightful  Pot-Pourri  of  happily  combined 
and  most  pleasingly  handled  melodies  from  the  u Zauberfldte", 
— this  as  well  as  each  of  the  other  pieces  were  received  with 
the  warmest  approbation.  We  heard  besides  another  Violin- 
Concerto*  played  by  Herr  Spohr  and  a Pot-Pourri  for  the 
Clarinet  with  Orchestral  accompaniment.  In  the  former,  the 
first  Allegro , as  regards  composition  and  execution  pleased  us 
least.  Here  and  there,  it  seemed  to  us  both  tricky  and  over- 
laden with  ornament,  and  considering  its  contents,  much  too 
long;  neither  was  the  execution  of  the  Virtuoso  every  where 
sufficiently  distinct  and  clear.  But  the  Adagio,  as  regards 
composition  and  execution  is  one  of  the  finest  we  ever  heard 
on  this  instrument,  we  may  even  say  the  very  finest  that  was 
ever  produced  by  any  Virtuoso.” 

Of  the  Oratorio,  also,  it  speaks  upon  the  whole,  favour- 
ably. It  contains  not  only  “many  details  that  are  original 
and  attractive,  some  even  that  are  really  charming,  but  which, 
also,  too  closely  crowd  upon  and  obliterate  each  other.”  Every 
hearer  whether  he  agrees  or  not  with  Spohr  in  his  idea  of 
an  Oratorio,  that  is,  whether  he  may  be  disposed  or  not  to 
tolerate  its  combination  of  almost  every  kind  of  treatment  and 
style,  or  rather,  to  see  them  replace  each  other  in  turn  — 
yet  every  hearer  must  be  impressed  with  a lively  interest  in 

* This  must  have  been  the  6.  (Op.  28). 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


161 


this  work,  and  experience  a real  pleasure  not  unmingled  with 
astonishment  at  several  of  its  principal  parts.” 

According  to  a notice  in  the  Musical  Journal  of  the  8.  No- 
vember, I do  not  appear  to  have  made  any  stay  at  Dresden, 
upon  this  journey.  But  in  Prague  I gave  a Concert  on  the 
12.  November,  and  eight  days  after,  my  Oratorio  at  the  Theatre. 
A very  favourable  notice  of  the  former  appears  in  the  Musi- 
cal Journal,  which  adverts  especially  to  the  “enchanting  unity” 
of  execution,  from  which  the  most  perfect  harmonic  marriage 
of  the  two  admirable  artistes  was  to  be  recognised. 

Of  the  performance  of  the  Oratorio  I alone  remember 
that  Fraulein  Muller  afterwards  Madame  Griinbaum,  sang  ex- 
quisitely in  it,  and  that  the  work  was  right  well  received  by 
the  public. 

I now  hastened  towards  the  chief  object  of  my  journey. 
Vienna  was  at  that  time  indisputably  the  Capital  of  the  Mu- 
sical world.  The  two  greatest  Composers  and  Reformers  of 
Musical  taste,  Haydn  and  Mozart  had  lived  there,  and  there 
produced  their  Master- pieces.  The  generation  still  lived,  which 
had  seen  them  arise,  and  formed  their  taste  in  Art  from 
them.  The  worthy  successor  of  those  Art-heroes,  Beethoven , 
still  resided  there,  and  was  now  in  the  zenith  of  his  fame, 
and  in  the  full  strength  of  his  creative  power.  In  Vienna 
therefore  the  highest  standard  for  Art  creations  was  set  up, 
and  to  please  there  — was  to  prove  one’s  self  a Master. 

I felt  my  heart  beat  as  we  drove  over  the  Danube-bridge, 
and  thought  of  my  approaching  debut.  My  anxiety  was  yet 
more  increased  by  the  reflexion  that  I should  have  to  com- 
pete with  the  greatest  Violinist  of  the  day;  for  in  Prague  I 
had  learnt  that  Rode  had  just  returned  from  Russia,  and  was 
expected  in  Vienna.  I still  vividly  recalled  to  mind  the  over- 
powering impression  which  Rode's  play  had  made  upon  me 
ten  years  before  in  Brunswick,  and  how  I had  striven  for 
years  to  acquire  his  method  and  execution.  I was  now  there- 
fore anxious  in  the  highest  degree  to  hear  him  again,  in  order 
thereby  to  measure  my  6wn  progress.  My  first  question 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  I.  11 


Digitized  by 


Google 


162 


therefore  on  alighting  from  the  carriage  was  whether  Rode 
had  arrived,  and  had  announced  a concert.  This  was  answered 
in  the  negative,  but  with  the  assurance  that  he  had  long 
been  expected. 

It  was  now  therefore  a matter  of  importance  to  me  to 
be  heard  before  Rode , and  I hastened  as  much  as  possible 
the  announcement  of  my  concert.  I succeeded  also  in  ap- 
pearing first;  but  Rode  had  arrived  meanwhile,  and  was  pre- 
sent at  the  concert.  To  my  great  surprise  I felt  less  intimi- 
dated than  inspired  by  that  circumstance,  and  played  as  well 
as  I could  have  desired.  The  Musical  Journal  spoke  of  my 
appearance  before  ua  crowded  house”  in  the  following  manner: 

uOn  the  17.  December  we  had  the  pleasure  to  hear  and 
admire  Herr  Louis  Spohr  and  his  wife  at  a concert.  We 
subscribe  gladly  to  the  favourable  opinions  expressed  of  this 
worthy  Artiste -pair  and  can  only  add  that  here  also  every 
one  was  charmed  by  their  masterly  play.  Herr  Spohr  played 
a Violin -Concerto  with  a Spanish  Rondo  and  at  the  end  a 
Pot-Pourri,  both  of  his  composition ; with  his  wife,  he  executed 
one  of  his  published  Sonatas  for  harp  and  violin.  The  com- 
position both  of  the  Concerto  and  this  Sonata  are  excellent, 
and  contrasted  not  a little  with  the  watery,  patchwork  pro- 
ductions with  which  so  many  practising  Musicians  without  ta- 
lent or  genius  for  composition,  make  their  appearance  here.” 

By  the  advice  of  some  kind  friends  I relinquished  my  in- 
tention of  giving  my  Oratorio  at  my  own  expense,  as  I had 
projected  doing  in  a second  Concert;  since  the  great  expen- 
diture which  a large  Orchestra  and  a numerous  Chorus  would 
have  Buperadded  to  that  of  an  usual  Concert,  forbade  the  hope 
to  realise  any  profit  from  the  undertaking.  Yet  as  I was  very 
desirous  to  have  this  work  heard  in  Vienna,  for  I still  con- 
sidered it  one  of  the  grandest  of  its  kind,  I offered  to  perform 
it  for  the  benefit  of  uthe  Widow’s  and  Orphan’s  Society”  on 
the  condition  only,  that  for  its  production,  the  society  would 
provide  a well  appointed  orchestra  supported  by  the  most  dis- 
tinguished Singers  and  Instrumentalists  in  Vienna.  This  con- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


163 


dition  was  accepted,  and  folly  carried  out  by  the  society, 
which  provided  a personel  of  three  hundred  assistants  from 
among  the  best  artistes  in  the  city.  The  work  was  carefully 
studied  in  two  grand  rehearsals,  and  on  its  production,  was 
performed  better  than  I had  yet  heard  it.  I became  anew 
enraptured  with  my  creation,  and  with  me  several  of  the  as- 
sistant Musicians,  among  whom  more  especially  Herr  Clement 
the  Director  of  the  Orchestra  of  the  “Theatre  an  der  Wien”. 

He,  had  so  thoroughly  imbibed  the  spirit  and  substance 
of  the  work,  that  the  day  after  its  performance  he  was  en- 
abled to  play  to  me  on  the  Piano  several  entire  parts,  note 
for  note,  with  all  the  harmonies  and  orchestral  figures,  with- 
out ever  having  seen  the  score.  But  Clement  possessed  a mu- 
sical memory  such  perhaps  as  no  other  artiste  ever  possessed. 
It  was  at  that  time  related  of  him  in  Vienna,  that  after  he 
had  heard  several  times  “the  Creation”  of  Haydn,  he  had 
learned  it  so  thoroughly,  that  with  the  help  of  the  text  book 
he  was  able  to  write  a full  Pianoforte  arrangement  of  it.  He 
shewed  this  to  old  Haydn,  who  was  not  a little  alarmed  at 
it,  thinking  at  first  that  his  score  had  either  been  stolen  or 
surreptitiously  copied.  Upon  a nearer  inspection  he  found  the 
Pianoforte  arrangement  so  correct,  that  after  Clement  had 
looked  through  the  original  score,  he  adopted  it  for  publi- 
cation. 

Before  my  Oratorio  was  performed,  I had  a quarrel  with 
the  Censorship,  which  nearly  subverted  the  whole  untertaking. 
They  would  not  suffer  the  names  of  Mary  and  Jesus  to  be 
used  in  the  list  of  the  Dramatis -Personae  of  the  Text -Book, 
nor  above  the  words  which  they  had  to  sing.  But  after  long 
negotiation,  upon  the  omission  of  these,  the  text  was  allowed 
to  be  printed.  I could  readily  accede  to  this  omission,  since 
from  the  context  it  was  easy  to  understand  who  the  persons 
were. 

Greatly  as  the  work  pleased  the  Musicians,  and  increased 
their  opinion  of  my  talent  for  composition,  yet  its  reception 
by  the  Public  was  not  nearly  so  brilliant  as  that  which  my 

ll* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


164 


play  and  my  Concerted  compositions  had  met  with.  It  is  true 
there  was  no  want  this  time  also  of  marked  applause,  but  it 
was  not  so  general  as  to  attract  a numerous  audience  to  the 
second  performance  which  took  place  three  days  afterwards. 
This  second  representation  in  Vienna  was  the  last  the  work 
ever  had;  for  in  later  years  I saw  too  well  its  weak  points 
and  deficiencies  ever  to  persuade  myself  to  give  it  again  in 
public.  Of  the  first  representation  in  Vienna  on  the  21.  Ja- 
nuary the  Musical  Journal  spoke  tolerably  well. 

Salieri  the  Leader  of  the  Imperial  Orchestra  had  under- 
taken the  direction  of  the  whole;  Herr  Umlauf  presided  at 
the  Piano,  and  I led  the  violins.  The  principal  parts  were 
sung  by  Demoiselle  Klieber,  Madame  Auenheim , Demoiselle 
Flamm , Messrs.  Anders , Wild,  and  Pfeiffer.  “It  is  difficult” 
says  the  notice  ’’here  in  Vienna  to  bring  out  an  Oratorio,  so 
as  either  to  awaken  attention  to  it,  or  to  procure  for  the 
work  a permanent  name  — here  where  such  grand,  success- 
ful masterpieces  of  the  kind  first  made  their  appearance,  which 
are  familiar  to  every  body  and  which  have  procured  for  their 
creators  a lasting  fame  in  the  musical  world.  Herr  Eibler 
already  attempted  to  set  the  “Four  last  Things”  ...  to  mu- 
sic. But  his  work  was  only  twice  publickly  performed,  because 
he  failed  in  a thoroughly  even  and  original  style,  and  his  com- 
position would  not  bear  comparison  with  the  works  of  his 
great  predecessors  of  this  kind.  The  same  may  be  said  also 
of  Herr  Spohr's  “Last  Judgement”  although  the  composer  of 
that  work  is  infinitely  superior  in  severe  passages  to  the  wri- 
ter of  te  “Four  last  things.”  All  the  chorusses  and  fugues  in 
the  severe  style,  with  which  one  can  find  fault  in  some  se- 
condary parts  only,  have  a real  artistic  merit;  are  worked  out 
with  great  industry,  and  were  received  also  with  loud  and  ge- 
neral enthusiasm.  The  Airs,  Duetts  and  single  Song  passages, 
depart  however  too  much  from  the  real  Oratorio  style,  are 
too  frequently  repeated  in  the  text,  and  approach  more  or 
less  to  the  Italian  Operatic  style.  Some  too  striking  remi- 
niscences of  the  “Creation”  and  particularly  of  the  “Zauber- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


165 


flote”  lessen  the  merit  of  the  work  in  respect  of  originality. 
The  Chorus  of  Devils  at  the  end  of  the  first  part  would  be 
more  admissably  in  its  place  if  introdued  in  a ballet.  Herr 
August  Arnold  the  author  of  the  text,  has  also,  certainly  not 
produced  a work  such  as  might  satisfy  the  composer  for  mu- 
sical treatment  ....  The  Theatre  was  scarcely  half  full. 
On  the  24.,  this  Oratorio  was  repeated  before  scarcely  two 
hundred  auditors.  But  a work  of  this  kind  should  not  have 
been  brought  out  in  such  a pleasure  loving  City  in  Carnival 
time!”  — 

A fortnight  after  my  first  appearance,  Mode's  Concert 
came  in  turn.  Relying  on  his  European  reputation  he  had 
chosen  the  most  spacious  Concert -room  in  Vienna,  the  great 
“Redouten-Saal”  and  he  found  it  completely  filled.  With  al- 
most feverish  excitement  I awaited  the  commencement  of 
Mode's  play,  which  ten  years  before  had  served  as  my  highest 
model.  But,  already,  after  the  first  Solo,  it  seemed  to  me 
that  Mode  had  lost  ground  in  that  time.  I now  found  his 
play  cold,  and  full  of  mannerism,  I missed  his  former  bold- 
ness in  conquering  great  difficulties,  and  felt  particularly  dis- 
satisfied with  his  execution  of  the  Cantabile.  The  composi- 
tion as  well  of  the  new  Concerto,  appeared  to  me  far  behind 
that  of  the  seventh  in  A- Minor.  In  his  execution  of  the  Varia- 
tions in  E-Major,  which  I had  heard  him  play  ten  years  before, 
convinced  me  fully,  that  he  had  greatly  lost  in  technical  pre- 
cision , for  he  had  not  only  simplified  for  himself  many  of 
the  most  difficult  passages,  but  he  produced  also  those  mo- 
dified passages  with  timidity  and  a degree  of  uncertainty. 
Neither  did  the  public  seem  satisfied;  at  least  he  failed  to 
rouse  them  to  any  enthusiasm.  The  Reviewer  in  the  Musical 
Journal  says,  also,  that  Mode  had  unot  quite”  satisfied  the 
expectation  of  the  public.  “His  bow-stroke”  continues  the  Re- 
viewer, “is  long,  grand  and  forcible,  his  tone  full  and  strong 
— indeed,  almost  too  strong,  cutting;  he  has  a correct,  pure 
intonation  and  is  always  sure  in  his  rebounds  up  to  the  very 
highest  notes ; his  double  notes  although  occurring  but  seldom, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


166 


are  good,  and  in  Allegro  he  conquers  great  difficulties  with 
ease:  on  the  other  hand  he  is  wanting  in  that  which  electri- 
fies and  carries  away  all  hearts  — fire,  and  that  winning 
grace  which  is  not  otherwise  to  be  defined,  that  witchery  of 
charm  that  ravishes  the  ear  and  inspires  the  soul.  In  Adagio , 
the  sharpness  of  his  tones  was  still  more  perceptible  than  in 
Allegro ; the  result  therefore  was  cold.  Neither  did  the  com- 
position awaken  much  interest ; it  was  thought  far  fetched  and 
mannered.  It  is  probable  the  vast  size  of  the  great  “Redou- 
ten-Saal”  may  have  induced  Herr  Rode  to  bring  out  his  tones 
so  sharply,  and  thus  they  lost  much  of  their  sweetness.” 

Eight  days  after  Rode’s  Concert  I gave  my  second . in 
the  small  “Redouten  Saal.”  The  Musical  Journal  speaks  of 
it  as  follows:  u Spohr  shewed  himself  to  be  a great  Master  of 
violin-play.  He  produced  a new  composition  in  A-Major  (pub- 
lished as  the  tenth),  which  was  solemnly  and  slowly  preceded 
by  an  introduction  in  A-Minor.  The  Adagio  was  in  D -Major. 
A most  charming  Rondo  concluded  it.  In  the  pleasing , and 
the  tender,  Spohr  is  indisputably  the  nightingale,  of  all  liv- 
ing, at  least,  to  us  known,  Violinplayers.  It  is  scarcely  pos- 
sible to  execute  an  Adagio  with  more  tenderness  and  yet  so 
clearly,  combined  with  the  purest  good  taste;  added  to  this, 
he  overcomes  the  most  difficult  passages  in  quick -time  mea- 
sure, and  effects  the  greatest  possible  stretches  with  wonder- 
ful ease,  to  which  certainly  the  large  size  of  his  hand  may 
be  of  some  advantage  to  him.  This  evening  he  again  received 
a general  and  unanimous  applause,  and  was  repeatedly  called 
forward,  an  honour  — which  so  far  as  we  remember,  — was 
conferred  only  upon  Herr  Polledro,  With  his  wife,  Herr  Spohr 
played  an  Allegro  which  she  performed  upon  the  harp,  with 
great  execution,  taste  and  expression.  We  think,  of  all  the 
Virtuosi  whom  we  have  heard  upon  that  instrument  none  pos- 
sesses so  much  school,  and  such  intensity  of  feeling  in  expres- 
sion, as  Madame  Spohr;  though  Demoiselle  Longhi  may  have 
more  power,  and  Demoiselle  Simonin-Pollet  more  equality  in 
their  play.” 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


167 


Speaking  of  Bode’s  second  Concert,  the  Musical  Review 
says:  that  “with  a very  crowded  saloon  he  met  with  much 
more  applause  than  before ; but  in  the  Cantabile  this  time,  also, 
he  did  not  sufficiently  satisfy  the  expectations  of  the  public.” 

On  the  28.  January  I played  with  Seidler  of  Berlin  in 
his  Concert,  and  as  a notice  of  it  says  “bore  away  the  palm 
although  Herr  Seidler's  play  was  worthy  of  praise.” 

I could  thus  be  very  satisfied  with  the  reception  I had 
met  with  in  Vienna  as  an  Artiste;  for  the  public  newspapers 
also  awarded  the  palm  to  me.  At  private  Parties  where  as 
the  rule,  I not  only  met  the  above  named  Violinist,  but  also 
the  most  distinguished  of  the  native  Violinists  Herr  May- 
seder,  and  had  to  compete  with  all  these,  my  performances 
met  also  with  special  acknowledgment  and  attention.  On 
these  occasions  there  was  at  first  always  a dispute  who  should 
begin,  for  each  desired  to  be  the  last,  in  order  to  eclipse  his 
predecessor.  But,  I,  who  always  prefered  playing  a well  com- 
bined Quartett  to  a Solo  piece,  never  refused  to  make  the 
beginning,  and  invariable  succeeded  in  gaining  the  attention 
and  sympathy  of  the  company  by  my  own  peculiar  style  of 
reading  and  executing  the  classical  quartetts.  Then  when 
the  others  had  each  paraded  his  hobby-horse,  and  I observed 
that  the  company  had  more  liking  for  that  sort  of  thing  than 
for  classical  music,  I brought  out  one  of  my  difficult  and 
brilliant  Pot-Pourri's,  and  invariably  succeeded  in  eclipsing  the 
success  of  my  predecessors. 

In  the  frequent  opportunities  of  hearing  Bode  I became 
more  and  more  convinced  that  he  was  no  longer  the  perfect 
Violinist  of  earlier  days.  By  the  constant  repetition  of  the 
same  compositions,  a mannerism  had  crept  by  degrees  into  his 
execution,  that  now  bordered  on  caricature.  I had  the  rude- 
ness, to  remark  this  to  him,  and  asked  him  if  he  no  longer 
remembered  the  way  in  which  he  played  his  compositions  ten 
years  ago.  Yes!  I carried  my  impertinence  so  far,  as  to  lay 
the  variations  in'G-Major  before  him,  and  said,  that  I would 
play  them  exactly  as  I had  heard  him  play  them  so  frequently 


Digitized  by  Google 


168 


ten  years  before.  After  I had  finished  playing,  the  company 
broke  out  into  a rupturous  applause,  and  Rode , for  decency’s 
sake  was  obliged  to  add  a “bravo'’;  but  one  could  plainly 
see  that  he  felt  offended  by  my  indelicacy.  And  with  good 
reason.  I was  soon  ashamed  of  it,  and  advert  to  the  circum- 
stance now,  only,  to  show  how  high  an  opinion  I then  had  of 
myself  as  a Violinist. 

Satisfied  in  the  highest  degree  with  Vienna,  I now  thought 
of  proceeding  farther,  when  quite  unexpectedly  I received  from 
Count  Palfy  the  then  Proprietor  of  the  Theatre  uan  der  Wien” 
the  offer  of  an  engagement  there  for  three  years,  as  Leader 
and  Director  of  the  Orchestra.  As  I could  not  make  up  my 
mind  to  give  up  my  and  my  wife’s  permanent  life  engagements.  1 
at  first  decidedly  declined  it.  But  when  Herr  Treitschke.  who 
was  the  agent  in  the  matter,  offered  me  more  than  three 
times  the  salary  which  1 and  my  wife  together  had  received 
in  Gotha;  when  he  informed  me  that  the  Theatre  “an  der 
Wien”  would  soon  become  the  first  in  Germany . that  the 
Count  had  suceeded  in  engaging  for  it  the  best  singers  of  the 
day,  and  that  he  now  contemplated  to  entrust  to  me  the  for- 
mation of  the  Orchestra  from  among  the  first  artists  of  Vienna, 
and  further  represented  to  me  that  in  such  an  excellent  The- 
atre I should  have  the  first  opportunity  to  cultivate  my  abili- 
ties and  distinghuish  myself  as  a Dramatic  Composer : I could 
no  longer  withstand  the  temptation;  requested  a short  delay 
in  order  to  consult  with  my  wife,  and  promised  to  give  a de- 
finite answer  in  a few  days. 

Of  the  large  salary  that  was  offered  to  me . and  which 
much  exceeded  those  of  the  two  Leaders  of  the  Imperial  Or- 
chestra Salieri  and  Weigh  1 might  hope  to  economist  a third 
or  perhaps  the  half.  I might  furthermore,  from  the  repu- 
tation I had  acquired  in  Vienna  as  an  Artiste,  safely  reckon 
upon  earning  something  considerable  by  Concerts,  Compositions 
and  Tuition.  Besides,  I was  secured  as  regarded  the  future, 
even  in  case  the  proffered  appointment  should  terminate  at 
the  expiration  of  the  three  years,  and  could  then  carry  out 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


169 


a favorite  plan  conceived  from  my  earliest  youth,  of  a journey 
to  Italy,  in  company  with  my  wife  and  children. 

More  than  all  these,  however,  I was  disposed  by  my  re- 
awakened desire  to  write  for  the  stage,  to  accept  the  Count’s 
proposal.  So,  after  Dorette  had  given  her  consent,  although  with 
sorrow  at  the  now  necessary  separation  from  her  mother  and 
family,  the  written  Contract  was  drawn  up  and  signed  under 
the  direction  of  a Notary,  a friend  of  ours.  I bound  myself 
therein  as  Director  of  the  Orchestra  to  play  in  all  grand 
Operas,  to  undertake  the  Violin  Soli’s  in  Operas  and  Ballets, 
and  as  Conductor,  to  lead  from  the  score  when  the  other 
leader  should  be  prevented  doing  so.  From  small  Operas, 
Ballets,  and  the  music  in  Plays,  I was  exempted.  I now, 
conjointly  with  Count  Palffy  and  my  new  colleague,  conductor 
von  Seifried  proceeded  to  remodel  the  constitution  of  the  or- 
chestra. The  Count  wat  not  niggardly  in  regard  to  the  sa- 
laries; so  1 soon  succeeded  in  procuring  the  services  of  the 
most  talented  young  artistes,  and  to  establish  an  ensemble 
that  made  my  Orchestra  not  only  the  best  in  Vienna,  but 
raised  it  to  one  of  the  first  in  all  Germany. 

Among  the  new  appointed  members  was  my  brother  Fer- 
dinand, and  one  of  the  most  gifted  of  my  other  pupils,  Mo- 
ritz Hauptmann  of  Dresden.  He  had  just  arrived  in  Vienna 
and  desired  to  establish  himself  there.  But  my  brother  did 
not  arrive  till  the  spring. 

I had  stipulated  at  the  same  time  for  a month’s  leave  of 
absence  in  the  spring,  to  arrange  my  affairs  in  Gotha  and  to 
fetch  my  children.  But  before  that,  it  was  necessary  for  me 
to  make  arrangements  for  another  domicile,  so  that  on  my 
return  1 could  commence  my  own  housekeeping.  At  this  time 
a circumstance  took  place  that  not  only  greatly  influenced  this 
business,  but,  also,  my  artistic  labours  in  Vienna.  Scarcely 
had  it  become  known  in  the  City  that  I was  to  remain  there, 
when  one  morning  a stranger  of  gentlemanly  exterior  called 
on  me,  who  introduced  himself  as  Herr  von  Tost , a proprietor 
of  manufactories  and  a passionate  lover  of  music.  In  excuse 


Digitized  by 


Google 


170 


for  the  intrusiveness  of  his  visit  he  pleaded  his  desire  to  mate 
a prbposition  to  me.  After  he  had  seated  himself,  and  I full 
of  expectation  had  taken  a chair  opposite  to  him,  he  first  ex- 
pressed his  admiration  of  my  talent  as  a Composer,  and  then 
the  wish  that  I would  assign  over  to  him  for  a proportionate 
pecuniary  consideration  all  that  I might  compose  or  had  al- 
ready written  in  Vienna,  for  the  term  of  three  years,  to  be 
his  sole  property  during  that  time;  to  give  him  the  original 
scores,  and  to  keep  myself,  even,  no  copy  of  them.  After 
the  lapse  of  three  years  he  would  return  the  manuscripts  to 
me , and  I should  then  be  at  liberty  either  to  publish  or  to 
sell  them.  After  I had  pondered  a moment  over  this  strange 
and  enigmatical  proposition,  I first  of  all  asked  him  whether 
the  compositions  were  not  to  be  played  during  those  three 
years?  Hereupon,  Herr  von  Tost  replied:  oh!  uyes,  as  often 
as  possible,  but  each  time  on  my  lending  them  for  that  pur- 
pose, and  only  in  my  presence.”  He  would  not,  he  added  pre- 
scribe the  kind  of  compositions  they  should  be;  but  he  more 
particularly  wished  they  should  be  such  as  would  permit  of  being 
produced  in  Private  Circles,  therefore.  Quartetts  and  Quintetts 
for  stringed  instruments  and  Sextetts,  Octetts  and  Nonettes 
for  stringed  and  wind  instruments.  I was  to  consider  upon 
his  proposal  and  fix  the  sum  for  each  kind  of  composition. 
Upon  this  he  presented  me  with  his  card  and  took  leave  of  me. 

My  wife  and  I vainly  endeavoured  to  discover  the  object 
Herr  von  Tost  could  have  in  making  such  a proposal;  and  I 
therefore  resolved  to  ask  him  the  question  plump  and  plain. 
Before  doing  this  I made  enquiries  about  him,  and  ascertained 
that  he  was  a wealthy  man,  the  proprietor  of  large  cloth  ma- 
nufactories near  Znaim,  was  passionately  fond  of  music,  and 
never  missed  being  present  at  every  nublic  concert.  This 
sounded  well,  and  I resolved  to  accede  to  the  proposal.  As 
compensation  for  the  three  years  cession  of  my  manuscripts, 
I fixed  the  amount  for  a Quartett  at  thirty  Ducats,  for  a 
Quintett  five  and  thirty,  and  so  on  progressively  higher  for 
the  other  kinds.  When  I now  wished  to  know  what  Herr 


Digitized  by 


Google 


171 


von  Tost  intended  doing  with  the  works  during  the  three  years; 
he  at  first  would  not  satisfy  me.  and  said,  that  as  soon  as 
he  had  bound  himself  by  writing  not  to  publish  my  compo- 
sitions, it  could  not  in  the  least  concern  me:  but  when  he 
perceived,  that  I had  still  some  misgivings,  he  added:  1 ‘I  have 
two  objects  in  view.  First,  I desire  to  be  invited  to  the  mu- 
sic Parties  in  which  you  will  execute  your  compositions,  and 
for  that  I must  have  them  in  my  keeping ; secondly,  possessing 
such  treasures  of  art,  I hope  upon  my  business  journeys  to 
make  an  extensive  acquaintance  among  the  lovers  of  music, 
which  may  then  serve  me  also  in  my  manufacturing  interests!” 

Although  unable  to  understand  thoroughly  Herr  von  Tost' 8 
speculation,  I was  obliged  mentally  to  confess,  that  at  any  rate 
he  had  an  exulted  idea  of  the  worth  of  my  compositions.  This 
was  very  flattering  to  me,  and  suppressed  all  further  hesita- 
tion. As  Herr  von  Tost  had  now  also , nothing  to  object  to 
in  the  price  demanded,  nor  to  the  requisition  for  payment 
upon  delivery  of  the  manuscripts,  the  business  was  soon  con- 
cluded by  a written  agreement  in  form. 

I had  brought  with  me  to  Vienna  one  manuscript,  a So- 
lo-Quartett  for  Violin,  which  I had  finished  on  the  journey. 
I was  just  then  also  engaged  upon  a second.  I determined  to 
finish  that  before  leaving  for  Gotha,  and  then  deliver  both  to 
Herr  von  Tost . 

Meanwhile  I had  been  so  fortunate  as  to  find  convenient 
apartments  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood  of  the  Theatre 
“an  der  Wien”  on  the  first  floor  of  the  house  of  a cabinet 
maker.  As  they  had  been  somewhat  disfigured  by  their  last 
occupants  I had  them  newly  painted  and  decorated,  and  was 
just  on  the  point  of  furnishing  them.  I therefore  delivered  my 
two  Quartetts  to  Herr  von  Tost,  and  demanded  their  price  of 
sixty*  ducats,  remarking  at  the  same  time  that  I required  the 
money  for  the  furnishing  of  my  new  domicile.  “I  will  pro- 
vide you  with  that,  complete  in  every  respect”  was  his  reply, 
“and  much  cheaper  also  than  if  you  were  to  buy  them  your- 
self ; for  I have  business  transactions  with  all  those  with  whom 


Digitized  by 


Google 


172 


you  will  have  to  deal,  and  therefore  can  obtain  them  on  lower 
terms  than  you.  It  will  give  me  moreover  an  opportunity  to 
collect  some  outstanding  debts.  Appoint  therefore  a day  when 
I shall  call  for  you  and  yonr  wife  in  order  that  we  may 
choose  the  things  together.” 

And  so  the  tiling  was  done.  We  first  drove  to  the  new 
apartments,  where  Herr  von  Tost  with  great  tact  and  business 
knowledge  sketched  an  estimate  of  all  we  should  require. 
We  then  went  from  one  shop  and  warehouse  to  the  other,  and 
my  wife  and  I had  continually  to  guard  against  his  choosing 
too  much,  and  frequently  the  most  costly  and  beautiful  articles. 
We  could  not  however  prevent  him  from  ordering  for  the  best 
room,  a suite  of  mahagony  furniture  with  silk  coverings  and 
curtains  to  match;  and  for  the  kitchen,  a mass  of  cooking 
utensils,  crockery  and  a table  service  more  befitting  a capi- 
talist than  an  impretending  artiste.  It  was  in  vain  that  Do - 
rette  represented  we  should  give  no  parties,  and  therefore  did 
not  require  so  large  a table  service.  But  he  was  not  be  per- 
suaded, and  when  I expressed  the  fear  that  the  whole  arrange- 
ments would  be  too  expensive  for  my  circumstances,  he  replied: 
“Make  yourself  easy,  it  will  not  cost  you  too  much;  neither 
shall  I ask  for  any  cash  payment.  By  degrees  you  will  soon 
square  all  accounts  with  your  manuscripts.” 

Nothing  more  was  to  be  said  against  this  and  thus  we 
found  ourselves  in  possession  of  apartments  fitted  up  in  a 
style  so  handsome  and  yet  tasteful,  as  for  certain  no  other 
artist  - family  in  the  City  could  shew. 

I now  got  every  thing  ready  for  my  journey.  My  wife 
was  invited  to  reside  with  a lady  of  her  acquaintance,  the 
sister  of  the  Advocate  Zizius , a great  lover  of  music,  in  whose 
house  we  had  frequently  played,  so  that  during  my  absence 
I could  leave  her  without  any  uneasiness. 

I had  been  informed,  that  a Leipsic  merchant  about  to 
return  home  in  his  own  carriage  with  extra-post-horses  was 
desirous  of  meeting  with  a fellow-traveller;  I hastened  there- 
fore to  offer  my  company , and  soon  agreed  with  him  upon 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


173 


the  terms.  I now  no  longer  recollect  his  name,  but,  that  he  was 
a well  informed  and  agreable  companion,  from  whom  I parted 
in  the  most  friendly  manner.  We  journeyed  without  stopping 
to  Prague,  but  remained  there  a whole  day  to  rest  ourselves. 
I spent  that  day  very  pleasantly  at  the  house  of  my  friend 
Kleinwachter.  On  leaving  Prague  we  were  obliged  to  leave 
the  high  road  to  Dresden,  as  the  armies  of  the  belligerent 
powers  were  drawn  up  there  opposite  to  each  other,  and  the 
bridge  over  the  Elbe  had  been  made  impassable,  the  French 
having  blown  up  several  arches.  We  were  therefore  obliged 
to  find  a way  over  the  Erzgebirge,  where  we  also  met  with 
detachments  of  troops,  by  which  howTever,  we  were  neither 
stopped  nor  turned  back.  We  arrived  therefore  without  fur- 
ther adventure  at  Chemnitz.  But  here  something  befell  me 
that  filled  me  with  such  terror,  that  I fainted  away,  a cir- 
cumstance which  with  my  strong  frame  of  body,  never  occured 
to  me  before  or  since. 

We  arrived  at  Chemnitz  at  noon,  just  as  a numerous 
company  at  the  hotel  were  about  to  sit  down  to  dinner.  We 
joined  them,  and  I took  a seat  between  my  fellow-traveller 
and  the  hostess.  While  the  latter  was  helping  the  soup,  I 
like  the  rest  of  the  guests  proceeded  to  cut  a slice  from  a 
large  brown  loaf  that  lay  before  me.  1 applied  the  knife  to 
the  loaf,  but  it  would  make  no  incision,  from  having  (as  after- 
wards appeared)  come  in  contact  with  a small  stone  baked 
into  the  crust.  This  induced  me  to  think  the  knife  was  blunt, 
and  to  increase  the  force  of  the  pressure.  Upon  this  it  sud- 
denly slipped  off  and  glancing  on  to  the  ball  of  my  left  fore 
finger  cut  off  a considerable  piece  of  the  flesh,  which  fell  upon 
the  plate  before  me.  A stream  of  blood  followed.  The  sight 
of  this,  or  rather  the  thought,  that  now  there  would  be  an 
end  to  my  violin  playing,  and  that  I should  no  longer  be  able 
to  support  myself  and  family,  filled  me  with  such  horror  that 
I fell  insensible  from  my  chair.  When  after  the  lapse  of  about 
ten  minutes  I recovered  my  senses,  I saw  the  whole  company 
in  commotion  and  occupied  with  me.  My  first  look  fell  upon 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


174 


my  finger,  which  I found  wrapped  round  with  a large  piece 
of  English  plaister  that  the  kind  hostess  had  brought.  It  ad- 
hered closely  in  the  hollow  of  the  wound,  and  to  my  comfort 
I could*  now  see  that  the  whole  ball  of  the  finger  had  not 
been  cut  off,  as  I had  at  first  imagined.  Nevertheless  almost 

the  half  of  it,  together  with  a large  piece  of  the  nail  were 

gone.  As  I scarcely  experienced  any  pain,  I left  the  strapping 
undisturbed,  and  first  applied  to  a surgeon  on  arriving  at 
Leipsic,  who  also  let  the  plaister  remain,  and  only  advised 
me  to  be  careful  of  all  ungentle  contact  with  my  finger. 

Thus  somewhat  consoled  I arrived  home  in  Gotha.  I 
found  the  Court  very  much  annoyed  about  my  contemplated 
removal  to  Vienna;  the  Dutchess  was  so  angry  that  I had 
much  difficulty  to  soothe  her,  and  the  more  so,  as  I was  now 

unable  to  play  once  more  as  she  had  so  much  wished,  at  a 

parting  Court  - Concert.  My  mother-in-law  was  also  greatly 
grieved.  I hastened  therefore  as  much  as  possible  to  get  away 
from  all  these  unpleasant  circumstances.  A few  weeks  before, 
I had  commissioned  my  old  friend  Banvolf  to  dispose  of  the 
furniture  and  things  which  I did  not  purpose  taking  with  me. 
In  this  he  had  been  successful.  I had  therefore  the  reserved 
articles  packed  up,  consisting  chiefly  of  beds,  looking  glasses, 
music,  clothes,  linen  etc.,  and  dispatched  beforehand  as  freight 
to  Ratisbonne  for  water  carriage.  Eight  days  afterwards  I 
followed  with  my  brother  Ferdinand , my  two  children  and  a 
young  girl,  an  orphan,  whom  my  mother-in-law  had  taken 
charge  of,  and  brought  up,  and  now  gave  to  me  as  nursemaid 
for  the  children. 

The  parting  with  my  relations  and  dear  Gotha,  was  a 
very  sorrowful  one;  but  favoured  with  the  most  delightful 
weather,  we  soon  cheered  up  again,  and  I was  highly  amused 
with  the  artless  remarks  of  the  children  upon  the  numerous  ob- 
jects now  seen  by  them  for  the  first  time.  So  we  arrived 
very  tired  it  is  true,  but  very  happy,  in  Ratisbonne.  There 
we  stopped  some  days,  during  which  I made  every  preparation 
for  the  voyage  down  the  Danube  to  Vienna.  I hired  at  a mo- 


Digitized  by  Google 


175 


derate  price  a boat  to  myself,  and  had  my  packages  which 
had  already  arrived  as  freight,  put  on  board.  The  beds  were 
unpacked,  and  spread  out  under  the  little  wooden  house  on 
board  the  bqat,  for  our  repose  at  night.  The  trunks  and 
boxes  served  as  seats.  As  we  purposed  continuing  our  voyage 
day  and  night  without  stopping  anywhere,  provisions  for  four 
or  five  days  were  laid  in.  The  boat’s  company  consisted  be- 
sides me  and  mine,  of  the  skipper,  his  wife  who  undertook 
the  cooking,  the  boatman,  and  three  trades  - apprentices  to 
to  whom  1 gave  a free  passage  and  food,  for  which  they  had 
agreed  to  lend  a diligent  hand  at  the  oars. 

We  were  in  the  month  of  May,  the  moon  was  fall,  and 
the  deep  blue  sky  was  outspread  over  the  charming  country 
round.  Spring  had  just  decked  all  nature  in  her  first  dress 
of  tender  green,  and  the  fruit  trees  were  still  laden  with  their 
beautiful  blossom.  The  bushy  banks  of  the  majestic  stream 
were  the  resort  of  numerous  nightingales,  which  in  bright 
calm  nights  particularly,  poured  forth  an  unceasing  melody.  It 
was  indeed  a delightful  voyage,  and  I have  striven  continually, 
during  my  whole  long  life,  to  make  it  again  under  similar 
favourable  circumstances;  but  alas!  in  vain. 

While  we  were  passing  the  celebrated  Rapids  and  the 
Whirlpool , which  at  that  time  could  not  be  effected  wholly 
free  from  danger,  our  skipper  who  till  then  had  been  very 
jovial  became  all  at  once  serious,  and  impressively  cautioned 
the  rowers  to  obey  his  orders  with  the  greatest  punctuality. 
The  moment  the  downward  rushing  stream  seized  upon  our 
boat,  he  turned  pale,  his  wife  threw  herself  upon  her  knee9 
and  howled  more  than  spoke  a prayer  to  the  Holy  Virgin. 
Hereupon  I cautioned  my  brother  who  like  me  was  a skillful 
swimmer,  should  any  accident  occur,  to  stand  by  me  in  saving 
the  children.  But  we  descended  safely  the  shooting  rapids 
and  steered  clear  of  the  whirlpool,  which  is  only  dangerous 
for  very  small  boats. 

Upon  the  rock,  which  stands  in  the  middle  of  the  stream 
at  the  end  of  the  rapids,  and  which  by  its  throwing  back  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


176 


waves  with  violence  occasions  the  whirlpool,  dwellt  then  an 
old  hermit,  who  subsisted  upon  the  charitable  gifts  of  the 
passing  travellers.  He  put  off  and  rowed  over  to  us  in  his 
little  skiff,  to  the  great  delight  of  the  children,  who  had  never 
before  seen  a hermit,  and  when  alongside  of  us  he  received 
the  customary  donation. 

On  the  fourth  day  of  our  voyage  we  arrived  towards 
evening  at  Vienna,  and  from  afar  could  see  Dorette  in  com- 
pany with  her  hostess,  awaiting  our  arrival  at  the  landing 
place.  That  was  a happy  meeting!  The  luggage  was  taken 
to  our  new  domicile  the  same  evening,  whither  wc  moved  the 
following  day. 

By  the  time  I had  arrived  in  Vienna,  my  wound  was  al- 
most healed.  To  my  surprise,  and  to  that  of  the  surgeon  to 
whom  I related  it,  under  the  English  sticking  plaister  which 
still  enveloped  my  finger,  a new  flesh  had  grown  in  the  place 
of  that  which  had  been  cut  awray,  and  had  by  degrees  assumed 
the  previous  form  and  size  of  the  ball  of  the  finger.  The 
piece  cut  out  of  the  nail  had  also  grown  again,  though  but 
imperfectly  joined  to  the  rest  of  the  nail,  so  that  there  yet 
remained  a gap,  which  is  even  still  visible,  and  shews 
plainly  the  extent  of  the  excision.  With  the  help  of  a leather 
finger  stall  I could  use  my  finger  again,  and  though  I could 
not  yet  play  a Solo,  yet  I could  perform  my  duties  in  the 
orchestra. 

I now  led  a very  active  and  a very  happy  life  in  the 
enjoyment  of  the  society  of  my  family.  The  early  dawn  found 
me  at  the  piano,  or  at  the  writing  table,  and  every  other 
moment  of  the  day  which  my  orchestral  duties  or  the  tuition 
of  my  pupils  permitted  was  devoted  to  composition.  Yes,  my 
head  was  at  that  time  so  continually  at  work,  that  on  my 
way  to  my  pupils  and  wrhen  taking  a walk  I was  constantly 
composing,  and  by  that  means  acquired  a readiness  in  working 
out  mentally,  not  only  long  periods,  but  whole  pieces  of  mu- 
sic so  completely,  that  without  any  further  labour  they  could 
be  at  once  written  off.  As  soon  as  this  was  done,  they  were 


Digitized  by  Google 


177 


as  though  effaced  from  my  mind,  and  then  I had  room  again 
for  new  combinations.  Dorette  frequently  chid  me  in  our 
walks  for  this  perpetual  thinking,  and  was  delighted  when 
the  prattle  of  the  children  diverted  me  from  it.  When  this 
had  once  been  done,  I gladly  gave  myself  up  to  external  im- 
pressions; but  I was  not  to  be  permitted  to  relapse  into  my 
thoughtful  mood  again,  and  Dorette  with  great  skill  knew  how 
to  prevent  it. 

In  the  first  summer  of  our  residence  in  Vienna,  we  al- 
ready made  ourselves  well  acquainted  with  the  beautiful  en- 
virons of  the  City,  and  almost  every  fine  evening,  when  I was 
not  engaged  at  the  Theatre,  we  spent  in  the  open  air.  Then, 
accompanied  by  the  nursemaid  carrying  our  simple  evening- 
repast  in  a small  basket,  we  used  to  seek  out  some  spot 
from  whence  we  could  have  a fine  view  of  the  country,  and 
see  the  sun  go  down.  On  Sunday,  also,  we  used  to  hire  a fly 
at  the  “Linie”,  and  make  farther  excursions  to  Leopoldsberg,  or 
to  the  Briihl  or  to  Laxenburg  and  Baden. 

But  the  favorite  walk  of  the  children  was  always  to 
Schonbrunn  to  see  the  menagery,  or  to  the  “Dorfl”  in  the 
Prater,  where  they  ever  beheld  with  new  transport  the  puppet 
and  dog  shows,  and  other  diverting  wonders.  I and  my  wife, 
half  children  too  in  disposition,  shared  intensely  in  all  the 
pleasure  of  our  little  pets.  It  was  a lovely , joyous  time  I so 
free  from  care! 

After  my  return  from  Gotha,  my  first  work  was  the  com- 
position of  “Faust.”  Before  my  journey  thither,  I had  had 
another  subject  in  view,  which  Theodor  Komer  was  to  have 
worked  out  for  me  as  an  Opera.  I had  made  the  young 
poet’s  acquaintance  soon  after  my  first  arrival  in  Vienna;  he 
was  then  already  as  much  admired  for  his  amiable  manners  as 
for  the  success  of  his  theatrical  pieces.  I met  him  at  almost 
every  party  where  I played,  and  as  Komer  was  very  fond  of 
music  we  soon  took  to  each  other.  When  it  was  decided  that 
I should  remain  in  Vienna,  I asked  Komer  to  write  an  Opera 
for  me  and  proposed  for  subject  the  legend  of  the  “Rubezahl”. 

8POHR,  Autobiography.  L \2 


Digitized  by  foozle 


178 


Rome r,  who  had  been  present  at  both  performances  of  the 
“Last  Judgement”,  and  who  had  a good  opinion  of  my  talent 
for  composition  acquiesced  without  hesitation,  and  went  to 
work  with  zest  upon  the  materials  proposed.  But,  suddenly 
it  was  reported  that  Rome)'  was  about  to  join  Liitzaiv's  light 
•horse,  and  fight  for  the  freedom  of  Germany.  I hastened  to 
him  and  endeavoured  like  many  other  of  my  friends  to  dis- 
suade him  from  that  intention;  but  without  success.  We  soon 
saw  him  depart.  It  became  afterwards  known,  that  it  was 
not  alone  his  enthusiasm  for  the  war  of  German  independance, 
but  an  unfortunate  and  unrequited  love  for  the  handsome  ac- 
tress Adamberger  that  drove  him  from  Vienna,  and  to  an  early 
death. 

I thus  saw  my  hope  of  an  Opera-libretto  from  the  pen 
of  the  youthful  and  gifted  poet,  destroyed,  and  was  now  ob- 
liged to  look  elsewhere  for  another.  It  was  therefore  very 
opportune  that  Herr  Bernhard  had  offered  me  his  version  of 
•‘Faust”  for  composition,  and  we  were  soon  agreed  upon  the 
terms.  Some  alterations  that  I had  wished  to  have  made, 
were  completed  by  the  author  during  my  journey  to  Gotha, 
so  that  I could  begin  upon  it  immediately  after  my  return. 
From  the  list  of  my  Compositions,  I find  that  I wrote  that 
Opera  in  less  than  four  months,  from  the  end  of  May  to  the 
middle  of  September.  1 still  remember  with  what  enthusiasm 
and  perseverance  I worked  upon  it.  As  soon  as  I had  com- 
pleted some  of  the  parts  I hastened  with  them  to  Meyerbeer , 
who  then  resided  in  Vienna,  and  begged  him  to  play  them 
to  me  from  the  score,  a thing  in  which  he  greatly  excelled. 

I then  undertook  the  Vocal  parts  and  executed  them  in  their 
different  characters  and  voices  with  great  enthusiasm.  When 
my  voice  was  not  sufficiently  flexible  for  the  purpose,  I helped 
myself  by  whistling,  in  which  I was  well  practised.  Meyerbeer 
took  great  interest  in  this  work,  which  appears  to  have  kept 
its  ground  up  to  the  present  time,  as  he  during  his  direction 
of  the  Opera  at  Berlin  put  “Faust”  again  upon  the  stage,  and 
had  it  studied  with  the  greatest  care. 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


179 


Pixis  the  younger,  also,  who  then  resided  with  his  parents 
in  Vienna,  as  well  as  Hummel  and  Seyfried,  shewed  a great 
predeliction  for  this  Opera,  so  that  I offered  it  for  represen- 
tation at  the  Theatre  uan  der  Wien”  with  the  fairest  hopes 
of  a brilliant  success.  Count  Paljfy , with  whom  I was  then 
still  on  good  terms,  accepted  it  immediately,  and  promised  to 
distribute  the  characters  as  soon  as  possible  and  to  bring  it 
out.  While  engaged  on  the  work,  it  is  true,  I had  the  per- 
sonnel of  my  Theatre  in  my  eye;  and  wrote  the  Faust  for 
Forti,  the  Mephistopheles  for  Weinmiiller,  Hugo  for  Wild, 
Franz  for  Gottdank , Cunigunda  for  Madame  Campi , and  Rosa 
for  Demoiselle  Teiner;  but  nevertheless,  (apart  from  the  cir- 
cumstance that  I at  that  time  especially  did  not  yet  understand 
how  to  keep  myself  within  the  bounds  of  the  natural  compass  of 
the  voice;  all  manner  of  things  had  escaped  my  pen  that  did 
not  suit  the  above  named  singers,  as,  for  instance:  the  long 
ornamental  passages  in  the  air  of  Hugo,  for  Wild , who  at 
that  time  had  but  a limited  power  of  execution.  This  at  a 
later  period  was  urged  by  the  Count,  when  I had  a disagree- 
ment with  him,  as  an  excuse  for  withdrawing  his  consent,  and 
actually  the  opera  was  never  produced  while  I was  in  Vienna. 
Some  years  afterwards,  it  was  brought  out  with  great  success, 
and  in  more  recent  times  was  put  upon  the  stage  again  with 
increased  approbation.  I,  who  had  always  felt  an  interest  in 
my  compositions  so  long  only  as  I was  engaged  on  them,  and 
so  to  say,  full  of  them;  bore  with  great  equanimity  of  mind 
the  banishment  of  my  score  to  the  shelves  .of  the  library  of 
the  Theatre,  and  immediately  set  to  work  on  new  subjects. 
Even  the  pianoforte-arrangement  of  the  opera  that  Pixis  had 
taken  great  pleasure  in  preparing,  I did  not  publish  till  many 
years  afterwards  at  Peter's  in  Leipsic. 

After  having  finished  Faust,  I thought  it  my  duty  to  pro- 
ceed to  the  fulfillment  of  my  agreement  with  Herr  von  Tost . 
I therefore  enquired  of  him,  what  kind  of  composition  he 
would  now  prefer.  My  Art  - Maecenas , reflected  a while,  and 
then  said:  a Nonet,  concerted  for  the  four  stringed  instru- 

12* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


180 


ments,  Violin,  Viol,  Violincello,  and  Double-Bass;  and  the 
five  principal  wind-instruments,  Flute,  Oboe.  Clarinet,  Horn 
and  Bassoon,  written  in  such  a manner  that  the  character 
of  each  of  those  instruments  should  be  properly  brought  out, 
might  be  both  an  interesting  and  grateful  theme;  and  as  he  did 
not  in  the  least  doubt  that  I should  successfully  accomplish  it, 
he  would  suggest  that  to  me  as  the  next  subject  to  choose. 
I felt  attracted  by  the  difficulty  of  the  task,  consented  to  it 
with  pleasure,  and  commenced  the  work  at  once.  This  was 
the  origin  of  the  well  known  Nonet.,  published  by  Steiner  in 
Vienna  as  op.  31 , and  which  up  to  the  present  time  is  the 
only  work  of  its  kind.  I completed  it  in  a short  time  and 
delivered  the  score  to  Herr  von  Tost.  He  had  it  written  out, 
and  then  invited  the  first  artists  in  Vienna  to  his  house,  in 
order  to  study  it  under  my  direction.  It  was  then  performed 
at  one  of  the  first  musical  parties  in  the  beginning  of  the 
winter,  and  met  with  such  unanimous  applause,  that  its  repe- 
tition was  frequently  called  for  during  the  season.  Herr  von 
Tost  would  then  appear  each  time  with  a music -portfolio  un- 
der his  arm,  lay  the  different  instrumental  parts  upon  the 
music-stands  himself,  and  when  the  performance  was  ended, 
lock  them  up  again.  He  felt  as  happy  at  the  success  of  the 
work  as  if  he  himself  had  been  the  composer.  I played,  also, 
very  frequently  at  musical  parties,  the  two  Quartetts  of  which 
he  possessed  the  manuscripts,  and  thus  his  desire  to  be  in- 
vited to  numerous  musical  parties  was  fully  accomplished. 
Indeed,  wherever- 1 played,  people  soon  became  so  accustomed 
to  see  Herr  von  Tost , also,  with  his  portefolio  of  music,  that 
he  used  to  be  invited  even  when  I did  not  play  any  of  his 
manuscripts. 

Before  the  end  of  the  year  1813,  I wrote  another  Rondo 
for  harp  and  violin  for  my  wife  and  self,  and  a Quartett  for 
stringed  instruments  for  Herr  von  Tost . It  is  the  one  in  G- 
Major,  Op.  33  which  from  an  oversight  the  publisher  has 
marked  as  Nr.  2.  It  was  nevertheless,  written  six  months  be- 
fore the  one  in  E-Major. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


181 


This  Quartett  was  the  occasion  of  my  becoming  entangled 
in  a literary  feud,  which  was  the  first  and  also  the  last  that 
I ever  engaged  in  about  my  compositions.  It  had  met  with 
a particularly  favourable  reception  among  the  Artists  and 
lovers  of  art  in  Vienna,  and  I considered  it,  also,  and  with 
reason,  as  the  best  I had  written  up  to  that  time.  It  was 
therefore  the  more  mortifying  to  me  that  the  reviewer  in  a 
Viennese  Art -journal  of  the  day  could  find  nothing  good 
whatever  in  it.  I was  more  particularly  hurt  by  the  malicious 
manner  in  which  he  spoke  of  the  theoretical  handling  of  the 
first  theme,  of  which  I was  proud ; and  which  had  excited  the 
admiration  of  connoisseurs.  Even  now,  after  so  long  a period 
I recollect  the  words,  which  were  nearly  as  follow : “This  eter- 
nal rechewing  of  the  theme  in  every  voice  and  key,  is  to  me 
just  as  if  one  had  given  an  order  to  a stupid  servant,  that 
he  cannot  understand,  and  which  one  is  obliged  to  repeat  to 
him  over  and  over  again  in  every  possible  shape  of  expression. 
The  composer  appears  to  have  considered  his  auditors  in  the 
same  light  as  the  stupid  servant. 

I soon  ascertained  that  the  anonymous  reviewer  was 
Hen-  von  Mosel , the  composer  of  a lyric  tragedy  called  “Sa- 
lem”, of  which  I certainly  had  said  very  openly:  “I  never 
heard  any  thing  so  wearisome  in  all  my  life.“  This  opinion 
had  unluckily  reached  the  ears  of  the  writer,  and  had  excited 
his  gall  to  this  degree.  Herr  von  Tost  who  was  more  proud 
of  my  compositions,  particularly  those  he  had  in  his  porte- 
folio  than  the  composer  himself,  would  not  rest  until  I had 
written  a replication  to  the  criticism.  What  I said  in  reply, 
particularly  in  defence  of  the  treatment  of  my  theme,  I now 
no  longer  remember,  but  I recollect,  I was  prodigal  in  side- 
thrusts  at  “Salem”.  This  was  pouring  oil  on  the  fire,  and 
so  a disputation  ensued,  which  would  have  been  continued 
much  longer,  had  not  the  censorship  put  a stop  to  it  by  for- 
bidding the  Editor  of  the  journal  to  insert  any  thing  more  on 
the  subject.  As  such  quarrels  were  exceedingly  unpleasant  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


182 


me  , I was  very  glad  to  be  able  to  retnm  to  my  harmless 
occupation  of  composing. 

In  the  autumn  of  1813,  Dorette  presented  me  with  a son. 
Our  joy  at  this  increase  to  our  family  was  unfortunately  of 
short  duration;  for  the  boy  soon  became  sickly  and  died,  be- 
fore he  was  three  months  old.  His  poor  mother  sought  and 
found  relief  in  her  harp;  she  practised  with  me  the  new 
Rondo  for  my  benefit -concert  that  was  to  take  place  in  De- 
cember. According  to  the  musical  journal,  this  concert  took 
place  in  the  small  “Redouten  - Saal”,  and  my  brother  Ferdi- 
nand made  his  debut  in  a Violin  Duet  with  me. 

In  the  meantime,  the  great  battle  of  Leipsic  had  been 
fought.  The  allied  armies  had  crossed  the  Rhine,  and  it  was 
hoped  they  would  soon  enter  Paris.  In  Vienna  great  prepa- 
rations were  made  to  celebrate  that  entry,  and  the  return  of 
the  Emperor  and  his  victorious  army.  All  the  Theatres,  had 
had  incidental  commemorative  pieces  written  and  composed, 
and  the  newly  instituted  Society  of  the  friends  of  music  of  the 
Austrian  Empire  under  the  patronage  of  the  Archduke  Ru- 
dolph made  preparations  for  a monster  performance  of  Han- 
del's “Samson”  in  the  Imperial  Riding-school ; for  which  Herr 
von  Mosel  increased  the  instrumentation.  Other  Societies  un- 
dertook similar  performances.  This  gave  Herr  von  Tost  the 
idea  of  making  arrangements  for  a grand  musical  performance 
on  the  return  of  the  Emperor,  and  he  asked  me  if  I would 
write  a Cantata  for  the  occasion,  the  subject  of  which  should 
be  the  liberation  of  Germany.  I willingly  consented,  but  with 
the  observation,  that  this  subject  in  itself  offered  but  few  fa- 
vourable passages  to  the  composer,  and  that  in  order  to  ob- 
tain such,  the  text  should  be  written  by  a good  poet. 

u0h!  there  shall  be  no  want  of  that”  was  the  reply.  ”1 
will  immediately  go  to  Frau  von  Pichler , and  have  no  doubt, 
that  she  will  untertake  to  furnish  you  with  the  text.”  And 
so  she  did.  I consulted  with  the  authoress  upon  the  form 
and  contents,  and  she  then  handed  me  a text- book,  which  in 


Digitized  by  foozle 


183 


rich  variety  of  domestic  and  warlike  scenes  presented  a suc- 
cession of  favourable  materials  for  composition. 

I immediately  set  to  work  upon  it,  and  finished  this 
Cantata,  which  takes  two  hours  to  perform,  in  less  than  three 
months,  from  January  to  the  middle  of  March  J814,  in  the 
midst  of  all  my  other  numerous  occupations. 

Meanwhile  Herr  von  Tost , had  engaged  the  four  best  sin- 
gers in  Vienna  for  the  soli-parts,  viz  Mesdames  Buchmeser  and 
Milder , and  Messrs.  Wild  and  WeinmuUer,  and  for  the  cho- 
ruses he  purposed  to  combine  the  whole  of  the  church-choirs 
and  the  chorus-singers  of  the  theatre.  The  vocal  parts  were 
written  and  distributed,  and  I had  already  gone  several  times 
to  Madame  Milder , to  assist  her  in  practising  her  part;  when, 
one  morning  Herr  con  Tost  rushed  into  my  room  and  ex- 
claimed in  despair:  UI  have  just  now  had  the  great  Redou- 
ten-Saal  refused  to  me  for  our  performance,  under  the  idle 
pretence  that  it  cannot  be  spared  on  account  of  the  prepa- 
ration for  the  Court-festivals ! It  is  from  sheer  jealousy  alone 
of  the  Musical  Society,  who  will  not  allow  any  other  grand 
performance  in  the  Riding-school  but  their  own.  What  is  to 
be  done?  Since  the  destruction  of  the  Apollo  Saloon,  there 
is  no  locale  in  Vienna  except  the  ‘‘Great  Redouten-Saal”  fit 
fojr  such  a musical  performance.” 

At  the  moment,  the  thought  occured  to  me  of  the  Circus 
of  Herr  de  Bach  in  the  Prater.  We  immediately  drove  out 
there,  to  see  whether  the  Riding -ring  in  the  centre  of  the 
building  jpould  afford  sufficient  room  to  hold  our  orchestra 
and  the  personnel  of  the  theatre.  \ thought  it  would,  and  pro- 
mised myself  an  immense  effect  frqm  the  disposing  of  the  body 
of  assistants  in  the  centre  of  the  building.  But  unfortunately, 
this  locale  also,  for  some  reason  which  I no  longer  recollect, 
was  not  to  be  had,  and  so  the  whole  undertaking  failed,  to 
the  great  grief  of  Herr  von  Tost 

This  Cantata  shared  the  same  fate  as  ‘‘Faust.”  It  was 
first  produced  long  a#er  I had  left  Vienna.  I heard  it  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


184 


the  first  time  in  1815  at  the  musical  Festival  at  Franken- 
hausen,  on  the  anniversary  of  the  battle  of  Leipsic. 

As  with  me,  so  it  fared  with  Beethoven  in  a similar  Fes- 
tive composition;  neither,  also,  was  his  performed  at  that  pe- 
riod. It  was  called  “Der  glorreiche  Augenblick”  * and  was 
published  later  with  altered  text  by  Hastings'  in  Vienna. 

While  mentioning  Beethoven,  it  occurs  to  me,  that  I have 
not  yet  adverted  to  my  friendly  relations  with  that  great  ar- 
tist, and  I therefore  hasten  to  supply  the  deficiency. 

Upon  my  arrival  in  Vienna  I immediately  paid  a visit 
to  Beethoven;  I did  not  find  him  at  home,  and  therefore  left 
my  card.  I now  hoped  to  meet  him  at  some  of  the  musical 
parties,  to  which  he  was  frequently  invited,  but  was  soon  in- 
formed that,  Beethoven  since  his  deafness  had  so  much  in- 
creased that  he  could  no  longer  hear  music  connectedly,  had 
withdrawn  himself  from  all  musical  parties,  and  had  become 
very  shy  of  all  society.  I made  trial  therefore  of  another 
visit;  but  again  without  success.  At  length  I met  him  quite 
unexpectedly  at  the  eating-house  where  I was  in  the  habit  of 
going  with  my  wife  every  day  at  the  dinner  hour.  I had  al- 
ready now  given  concerts,  and  twice  performed  my  oratorio. 
The  Vienna  papers  had  noticed  them  favourably.  Beethoven 
had  therefore  heard  of  me  when  I introduced  myself  to  him, 
and  he  received  me  with  an  unusual  friendliness  of  manner. 
We  sat  down  at  the  same  table,  and  Beethoven  became  very 
chatty,  which  much  surprised  the  company,  as  he  was  gene- 
rally taciturn,  and  sat  gazing  listlessly  before  him.  But  it  was 
an  unpleasant  task  to  make  him  hear  me,  and  I was  obliged 
to  speak  so  loud  as  to  be  heard  in  the  third  room  off. 
Beethoven  now  came  frequently  to  these  dining  rooms,  and 
visited  me  also  at  my  house.  We  thus  soon  became  well  ac- 
quainted: Beethoven  was  a little  blunt,  not  to  say  uncouth; 
but  a truthful  eye  beamed  from  under  his  bushy  eyebrows. 
After  my  return  from  Gotha  I met  him  now  and  then  at  the 

• 

• “The  glorious  moment.” 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


185 


theatre  “an  der  Wien”,  close  behind  the  orchestra,  where 
Count  Palffy  had  given  him  a free  seat.  After  the  opera 
he  generally  accompanied  me  to  my  house,  and  passed  the 
rest  of  the  evening  with  me.  He  could  then  be  very  friendly 
with  Dorette  and  the  children.  He  spoke  of  music  but  very 
seldom.  When  he  did,  his  opinions  were  very  sternly  ex- 
pressed, and  so  decided  as  would  admit  of  no  contradiction 
whatever.  In  the  works  of  others,  he  took  not  the  least 
interest;  I therefore  had  not  the  courage  to  shew  him  mine. 
His  favorite  topic  of  conversation  at  that  time  was  a sharp 
criticism  of  the  management  of  both  theatres  by  Prince 
Lobkowitz  and  Count  Palffy.  He  frequently  abused  the  latter 
in  so  loud  a tone  of  voice,  while  we  were  yet  even  within 
the  walls  of  his  theatre,  that  not  only  the  public  leaving  it, 
but  the  Count  himself  could  hear  it  in  his  office.  This  used 
to  embarrass  me  greatly,  and  I then  always  endeavoured  to 
turn  the  conversation  upon  some  other  subject. 

Beethoven's  rough  and  even  repulsive  manners  at  that 
time,  arose  partly  from  his  deafness,  which  he  had  not  learn- 
ed to  bear  with  resignation,  and  partly  from  the  dilapidated 
condition  of  his  pecuniary  circumstances.  He  was  a bad 
housekeeper,  and  had  besides  the  misfortune  to  be  plundered 
by  those  about  him.  He  was  thus  frequently  in  want  of  common 
necessaries.  In  the  early  part  of  our  acquaintance,  I once 
asked  him,  after  he  had  absented  himself  for  several  days 
from  the  diningrooms:  “You  were  not  ill.  I hope?”  — uMy 
boot  was,  and  as  I have  only  one  pair,  I had  house-arrest”, 
was  his  reply. 

But  some  time  afterwards  he  was  extricated  from  this 
depressing  position  by  the  exertions  of  his  friends.  The  pro- 
ceeding was  as  follows: 

Beethoven's  “Fidelio”,  which  in  1804  (or  1805)  under 
very  unfavourable  circumstances,  (during  the  occupation  of 
Vienna  by  the  French),  had  met  with  very  little  success,  was 
now  brought  forward  again  by  the  director  of  the  Karnth- 
nerthor-Theatre  and  performed  for  his  benefit.  Beethoven 


Digitized  by 


Google 


m 


had  allowed  himself  to  be  persuaded  to  write  a new  overture 
for  it  (in  E),  a song  for  the  jailor,  and  the  grand  air  for 
Fidelio  (with  horns-obligati)  as  also  to  make  some  alterations. 
In  this  new  form  the  Opera  had  now  great  success,  and  kept 
its  place  during  a long  succession  of  crowded  performances. 
On  the  first  night,  the  composer  was  called  forward  several 
times,  and  now  became  again  the  object  of  general  attention. 
His  friends  availed  themselves  of  this  favorable  opportunity 
to  make  arrangements  for  a concert  in  his  behalf  in  the 
great  “Redouten  Saal”  at  which  the  most  recent  compositions 
of  Beethoven  were  to  be  performed.  All  who  could  fiddle, 
blow,  or  sing  were  invited  to  assist,  and  not  one  of  the  most 
celebrated  artists  of  Vienna  failed  to  appear.  I and  my 
orchestra  had  of  course  also  joined,  and  for  the  first  time 
I saw  Beethoven , direct.  Although  I had  heard  much  of  his 
leading,  yet  it  surprised  me  in  a high  degree.  Beethoven  had 
accustomed  himself  to  give  the  signs  of  expression  to  his 
orchestra  by  all  manner  of  extraordinary  motions  of  his  body. 
So  often  a6  a Sforzatido  occured,  he  tore  his  arms  which 
he  had  previously  crossed  upon  his  breast,  with  great  vehemence 
asunder.  At  a piano , he  bent  himself  down , and  the  lower, 
the  softer  he  wished  to  have  it.  Then  when  a crescendo 
came,  he  raised  himself  again  by  degrees,  and  upon  the  com- 
mencement of  the  forte , sprang  bolt  upright.  To  increase 
the  forte  yet  more,  he  would  sometimes,  also,  join  ip  with  a 
shout  to  the  orchestra,  without  being  aware  of  it. 

Upon  my  expressing  my  astonishmept  to  Sey fried,  at 
this  extraordinary  method  of  directing,  he  related  to  me  a 
tragi-comical  circumstance  that  had  occurred  at  Beethoven's 
last  concert  at  the  Theatre  aan  der  Wien.” 

Beethoven  was  playing  a new  Pianoforte- Concerto  of  his, 
but  forgot  at  the  first  tutti,  that  he  was  a Soloplayer,  and 
springing  up,  began  to  direct  in  his  usual  way.  At  the  first 
sforzando  he  threw  out  his  arms  so  wide  asunder,  that  he 
knocked  both  the  lights  off  the  piano  upon  the  ground.  The 
audience  laughed,  and  Beethoven  was  so  incensed  at  this  dis- 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


turbance,  that  he  made  the  orchestra  cease  playing,  and  be- 
gin anew.  Seyfried , fearing,  that  a repetition  of  the  accident 
would  occur  at  the  same  passage,  bade  two  boys  of  the  chorus 
place  themselves  on  either  side  of  Beethoven , and  hold  the 
lights  in  their  hands.  One  of  the  boys  innocently  approached 
nearer,  and  was  reading  also  in  the  notes  of  the  piano-part. 
When  therefore  the  fatal  sforaando  came,  he  received  from 
Beethoven's  out  thrown  right  hand  so  smart  a blow  on  the  mouth, 
that  the  poor  boy  let  fall  the  light  from  terror.  The  other 
boy,  more  cautious,  had  followed  with  anxions  eyes  every 
motion  of  Beethoven,  and  by  stooping  suddenly  at  the  eventful 
moment  he  avoided  the  slap  on  the  mouth.  If  the  public 
were  unable  to  restrain  their  laughter  before,  they  could  now 
much  less , and  broke  out  into  a regular  bacchanalian  roar. 
Beethoven  got  into  such  a rage,  that  at  the  first  chords  of 
the  solo,  half  a dozen  strings  broke.  Every  endeavour  of 
the  real  lovers  of  music  to  restore  calm  and  attention  were 
for  the  moment  fruitless.  The  first  allegro  of  the  Concerto 
was  therefore  lost  to  the  public.  From  that  fatal  evening 
Beethoven  would  not  give  another  concert. 

But  the  one  got  up  by  his  friends,  was  attended  with 
the  most  brilliant  success.  The  new  compositions  of  Beethoven 
pleased  extremely,  particularly  the  symphony  in  A -Major  (the 
seventh);  the  wonderful  second  theme  was  encored ; and  made 
upon  me  also,  a deep  and  lasting  impression.  The  execution 
was  a complete  masterpiece,  inspite  of  the  uncertain  and 
frequently  laughable  direction  of  Beethoven . 

It  was  easy  to  see  that,  the  poor  deaf  Maestro  of  the 
Piano,  could  no  longer  hear  his  own  music.  This  was  particu- 
larly remarkable  in  a passage  in  the  second  part  of  the  first 
ailegro  qf  the  symphony.  At  that  part  there  are  two  pauses 
in  quick  succession,  the  second  of  which,  is  pianissimo.  This, 
Beethoven  had  probably  overlooked , for  he  again  began  to 
give  the  time  before  the  orchestra  had  executed  this  second 
pause.  Without  knowing  it  therefore,  he  was  already  from  ten 
to  twelve  bars  in  advance  of  the  orchestra  when  it  began  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


188 


pianissimo.  Beethoven , to  signify  this  in  his  own  way,  had 
crept  completely  under  the  desk.  # Upon  the  now  ensuing 
crescendo,  he  again  made  his  appearance,  raised  himself  con- 
tinually more  and  more,  and  then  sprang  up  high  from  the 
ground,  when  according  to  his  calculation  the  moment  for  the 
forte  should  begin.  As  this  did  not  take  place,  he  looked 
around  him  in  affright,  stared  with  astonishment  at  the 
orchestra,  that  it  should  still  be  playing  pianissimo,  and 
only  recovered  himself,  when  at  length  the  long  expected 
forte  began,  and  was  audible  to  himself. 

Fortunately  this  scene  did  not  take  place  at  the  public 
performance,  otherwise  the  audience  would  certainly  have 
laughed  again. 

As  the  saloon  was  crowded  to  overflowing  and  the  applause 
enthusiastic,  the  friends  of  Beethoven  made  arrangements  for 
a repetition  of  the  concert,  which  brought  in  an  almost 
equally  large  amount.  For  some  time  therefore  Beethoven 
was  extricated  from  his  pecuniary  difficulties;  but,  arising 
from  the  same  causes,  these  reoccurred  to  him  more  than 
once  before  his  death. 

Up  to  this  period,  there  was  no  visible  falling  off  in 
Beethoven's  creative  powers.  But  as  from  this  time,  owing 
to  his  constantly  increasing  deafness,  he  could  no  longer  hear 
any  music,  that  of  a necessity  must  have  had  a prejudicial 
influence  upon  his  fancy.  His  constant  endeavour  to  be 
original  and  to  open  new  paths,  could  no  longer  as  formerly, 
be  preserved  from  error  by  the  guidance  of  the  ear.  Was 
it  then  to  be  wondered  at  that  his  works  became  more  and 
more  eccentric,  unconnected,  and  incomprehensible?  It  is 
true  there  are  people,  who  imagine  they  can  understand  them, 
and  in  their  pleasure  at  that,  rank  them  far  above  his  earlier 
masterpieces.  But  I am  not  of  the  number,  and  freely  con- 
fess that.  I have  never  been  able  to  relish  the  last  works  of 
Beethoven . Yes!  I must  even  reckon  the  much  admired 
Ninth  Symphony  among  them,  the  three  first  themes  of 
which,  inspite  of  some  solitary  flashes  of  genius,  are  to  me 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


189 


worse  than  all  of  the  eight  previous  Symphonies,  the  fourth 
theme  of  which  is  in  my  opinion  so  monstrous  and  tasteless, 
and  in  its  grasp  of  Schiller's  Ode  so  trivial,  that  I cannot 
even  now  understand  how  a genius  like  Beethoven's  could 
have  written  it.  I find  in  it  another  proof  of  what  I already 
remarked  in  Vienna,  that  Beethoven  was  wanting  in  sesthetical 
feeling  and  in  a sense  of  the  beautiful. 

As  *at  the  time  I made  Beethoven's  acquaintance,  he  had 
already  discontinued  playing  both  in  public,  and  at  private 
parties;  I had  therefore  but  one  opportunity  to  hear  him, 
when  I casually  came  to  the  rehearsal  of  a new  Trio  (D-Major 
5/4  time)  at  Beethoven's  house.  It  was  by  no  means  an  enjoy- 
ment; for  in  the  first  place  the  pianoforte  was  woefully  out 
of  tune,  which  however  little  troubled  Beethoven , since  he 
could  hear  nothing  of  it,  and,  secondly,  of  the  former  so  ad- 
mired excellence  of  the  virtuoso,  scarely  any  thing  was  left, 
in  consequence  of  his  total  deafness.  In  the  forte , the  poor 
deaf  man  hammered  in  such  a way  upon  the  keys,  that  entire 
groups  of  notes  were  inaudible,  so  that  one  lost  all  intelligence 
of  the  subject  unless  the  eye  followed  the  score  at  the  same 
time.  I felt  moved  with  the  deepest  sorrow  at  so  hard  a 
destiny.  It  is  a sad  misfortune  for  any  one  to  be  deaf;  how 
then  should  a musician  endure  it  without  despair?  Beet - 
haven's  almost  continual  melancholy  was  no  longer  a riddle  to 
me  now. 

The  next  thing  I wrote  after  finishing  the  Cantata,  was 
a Violin-quartett  (the  tenth,  op.  30  published  by  Mechetti 
in  Vienna.)  Being  very  brilliant  for  the  first  violin,  it  was 
soon  my  hobby-horse,  and  I played  it  times  innumerable 
at  private  parties.  Then  followed  the  Octett,  in  which  by 
Herr  von  Tost's  wish,  who  then  contemplated  a journey  to 
England , I took  up  a theme  from  Handel , varied , and.  car- 
ried it  out  thematically,  as  he  was  of  opinion  it  would  on 
that  account  excite  great  interest  in  that  country.  I also 
played  this  composition  very  frequently,  in  which  besides  my- 
self the  clarinetist  Friedlowsky  and  the  hornist  Herbst , and 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


iso 


another  whose  name  I now  forget,  found  especial  opportunity 
to  distinguish  themselves. 

In  the  autumn  of  1814,  the  crowned  heads  of  Europe 
and  their  Ministers  assembled  in  Vienna,  and  that  famed 
Congress  began,  from  which  the  German  nations  expected  to 
see  the  fulfilment  of  all  the  promises  made  to  them  for  their 
self  devotion.  A swarm  of  idlers  and  curious  poured  from 
all  parts  into  Vienna,  to  be  present  at  the  splendid  festivities, 
with  which  the  Emperor  was  to  entertain  his  guests.  Before 
the  Emperor’s  return  to  Vienna  several  had  already  taken 
place,  which  from  their  magnificence  yet  more  increased  the 
expectation  of  what  was  to  follow.  At  one  of  these  I had 
also  assisted.  It  was  a grand  serenade  in  the  Court  - Yard 
of  the  Burg  Palace,  and  was  given  either  to  the  Emperor 
or  to  Prince  Schwarzenberg , I now  no  longer  recollect  which. 
In  the  centre  of  that  not  very  large  square,  surrounded  by 
lofty  buildings  a raised  platform  was  erected  for  the  numerous 
personnel  of  the  orchestra  and  choruses.  Upon  a balcony  op- 
posite the  singers,  the  Court  and  State  officials  were  assem- 
bled. The  remaining  space  was  filled  by  a numerous  public, 
to  whom  free  admission  had  been  allowed. 

When  I saw  the  locality,  and  the  assembled  crowd  which 
had  increased  to  thousands,  I felt  alarmed,  for  I had  pro- 
mised to  perform  a violin-concerto,  and  now  feared,  that 
my  tones  would  be  unheard,  and  lost  in  the  wide  surrounding 
space.  But  to  withdraw  now,  was  no  longer  possible,  so  I 
resigned  myself  to  my  fate.  But  every  thing  went  off  better 
than  I had  expected.  Already  during  the  overture  I remarked 
that  the  high  buildings  threw  back  the  sounds  right  well,  and 
I then  came  forward  with  renewed  courage.  The  very  first 
tones  of  my  solo  allayed  all  my  anxiety  that  the  damp  night 
air  would  affect  my  strings,  for  my  violin  sounded  clear  and 
powerful  as  usual.  As  the  public  also,  during  my  play,  main- 
tained the  most  perfect  silence,  even  the  finest  shades  of  my 
instrumentation  were  every  where  distinctly  heard.  The  effect, 
therefore,  was  a very  favorable  one,  and  was  acknowledged 


Digitized  by  Google 


191 


by  loud  and  long  applause.  I have  never  played  before  a 
more  numerous  nor  a more  sympathetic  public. 

Among  the  many  strangers  attracted  by  the  Congress 
tvere  several  artists,  who  thought  the  opportunity  a most 
favourable  one  to  give  concerts  in  Vienna.  In  this  they  very 
much  deceived  themselves.  For  as  all  the  native  artists  gave 
concerts,  these  became  so  numerous  and  close  upon  each 
other,  that  it  was  impossible  for  all  to  be  well  attended! 
One  that  I and  my  wife  gave  on  the  11.  December  was  an 
exception  to  this,  for  it  attracted  a numerous  and  brilliant 
audience.  I gave  the  overture  to  “Faust,”  and  it  was  received 
with  great  approbation.  The  reviewer  of  the  Musical -journal 
says  “it  increased  our  desire  to  see  this  opera,  which  has 
now  been  ready  a twelvemonth,  brought  out  at  last.”  Several 
lovers  of  art  among  the  ambassadors  and  foreign  diplomatists 
who  had  heard  me  play  for  the  first  time  at  my  concert,  paid 
me  a visit,  and  expressed  the  wish  to  hear  me  in  a quartett. 
This  was  the  cause  of  my  giving  several  music-parties  during 
the  Congress,  and  in  which  I played  to  those  lovers  of  art 
the  new  compositions  I had  written  for  Herr  von  Tost . I 
still  recollect  with  great  satisfaction  the  general  delight  with 
which  those  productions  were  received.  Certainly,  I was  sup- 
ported also,  upon  those  occasions  by  the  first  artists  in  Vienna, 
so  that  as  regards  execution  nothing  more  could  be  desired. 
I generally  began  with  a Quartett,  then  followed  with  a 
quintett,  and  concluded  with  my  octett,  or  nonett. 

Others  also  besides  me,  gave  music  parties  to  the  visitors 
to  the  Congress,  among  these  my  friend  Zizius  particularly 
distinguished  himself.  All  the  foreign  artists  had  been  in- 
troduced at  his  house,  and  at  his  music  parties  therefore, 
there  arose  frequently  a spirit  of  rivalry  between  the  native 
and  foreign  virtuosi.  I there  for  the  first  time  heard  Hummel 
play  his  beautiful  Septett,  as  well  as  several  other  of  his  com- 
positions of  that  period.  But  I was  mostly  charmed  by  his 
improvisations  in  which  no  other  Pianoforte  - Virtuoso  has 
ever  yet  approached  him.  I especially  remember  with  great 


Digitized  by 


Google 


192 


pleasure  one  evening  when  he  improvised  in  sp  splendid  a man- 
ner as  I never  since  heard  him  whether  in  public  or  in  private. 
The  company  were  about  to  break  up,  when  some  ladies, 
who  thought  it  too  early,  entreated  Hummel  to  play  a few 
more  walzes  for  them.  Obliging  and  galant  as  he  was  to 
the  ladies , he  seated  himself  at  the  piano , and  played  the 
wished  for  walzes,  to  which  the  young  folks  in  the  adjoining 
room  began  to  dance.  I,  and  some  other  artists,  attracted 
by  his  play,  grouped  ourselves  round  the  instrument  with  our 
hats  already  in  our  hands,  and  listened  attentively.  Hummel 
no  sooner  observed  this,  than  he  converted  his  play  into  a 
free  pbantasia  of  improvisation,  but  which  constantly  pre- 
served the  walz-rhythm,  so  that  the  dancers  were  not  dis- 
turbed. He  then  took  from  me  and  others  who  had  executed 
their  own  compositions  during  the  evening  a few  easily  com- 
bined themes  and  figures,  which  he  interwove  into  his  walzes 
and  varied  them  at  every  recurrence  with  a constantly  in- 
creasing richness  and  piquancy  of  expression.  Indeed , at 
length,  he  even  made  them  serve  as  fuge-themes,  and  let 
loose  all  his  science  in  counterpoint  without  disturbing  the 
walzers  in  their  pleasures.  Then  he  returned  to  the  galant 
style,  and  in  conclusion  passed  into  a bravoura,  such  as  from 
him  even  has  seldom  been  heard.  In  this  finale,  the  themes 
taken  up  were  still  constantly  heard,  so  that  the  whole  rounded 
off  and  terminated  in  real  artistic  style.  The  hearers  were 
enraptured,  and  praised  the  young  ladies’  love  of  dancing, 
that  had  conduced  to  so  rich  a feast  of  artistic  excellence. 

Among  the  foreign  artists  who  came  to  Vienna  before 
and  during  the  Congress,  were  alstf,  three  of  my  former 
acquaintances,  Carl  Maria  von  Weber,  Hermstedt  and  Feska. 
Weber  played  with  great  success  and  then  left  for  Prague, 
whither  he  was  summoned  to  direct  the  opera.  Hcnnstedt 
came  at  a time,  when  the  concerts  were  so  numerous,  that 
he  could  not  give  one  of  his  own.  He  played,  however,  with 
immense  applause  at  a concert  of  the  flutist  Dressier , in 
which  he  accompanied  the  air  with  clarinet  obligato  in  “Titus”, 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


193 


accompanied  and  played  a pot-pourri  of  mine  which  I wrote  for 
him  for  the  occasion,  after  a new  composition  for  harp  and  violin, 
that  had  particularly  pleased  HermstedL  Both  compositions  were 
afterwards  published ; that  for  the  clarinet  with  quartett-accom- 
paniment  as  op.  81  at  SchUsinger’s  in  Berlin,  and  that  for 
harp  and  violin  as  op.  118  by  Schuberth  in  Hamburgh. 

Feska , who  since  I had  known  him  in  Magdeburgh,  had 
become  member  of  the  Westphalian  orchestra  in  Cassel,  and 
now  after  its  dissolution  had  been  made  Concert  master  at 
Carlsruhe,  had  made  great  progress  both  as  violinist  and 
composer.  His  quartette  and  quintetts,  which  he  executed  in 
a pure,  accomplished,  and  tasteful  manner,  took  greatly  in 
Vienna,  and  found  a ready  sale  among  the  publishers  there. 
One  of  them  began  in  one  of  its  themes  with  the  notes, 
which  form  the  composer’s  name: 

^ F e to  a 


wmrmrntMwd'r  nr ! 

— | 



wn 

n 

Zj 

r «/ 

n 

n 

This  the  auditors  thought  very  pretty,  and  joked  the 
other  composers  present,  Hummel , Pixis,  and  me,  on  account 
of  our  unmusical  names.  This  suggested  the  idea  to  me  of 
making  something  musical  out  of  my  name,  with  the  assistance 
of  the  abbreviation  formerly  used  of  the  piano  into  po , and 
of  a quarter  rest,  which  when  written  looks  like  an  r.  It 
was  in  this  form: 


and  I immediately  took  it  as  a theme  for  a new  violin- 
quartett,  which  is  the  first  of  the  three  quartetts  published  in 
Vienna  by  Mechetti  as  op.  29  and  dedicated  to  Andreas 
Romberg . When  I first  played  it  at  my  friend’s  Zieius , it 
met  with  great  applause,  and  the  originality  of  the  theme, 
with  its  descending,  diminished  Quarte , was  especially  praised. 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  I.  1R 


Digitized  by  foozle 


194 


I now ' called  together  those  who  had  previously  quizzed  me 
for  my  unmusical  name  and  shewed  them,  (for  naturally 
they  had  not  heard  it)  the  famous  thema  formed  out  of  my 
name.  They  laughed  heartily  at  my  artistic  trick,  and  now 
quizzed  the  more  both  Hummel  and  Pixis,  who  with  all  their 
skill  could  make  nothing  musical  out  of  their  names. 

* * 

* 

Meanwhile  many  things  had  changed  in  my  position  at 
the  theatre  and  in  respect  to  its  proprietor.  I had  openly 
broken  with  Count  Palffy . It  was  brought  about  by  the 
following  circumstance : One  evening,  when  I entered  the 
orchestra  1 saw  Herr  Buchtvieser,  the  father  of  the  prima 
donna,  and  third  orchestra  director,  had  taken  Seyfried's  seat. 
I observed  to  him  that  I alone  was  charged  with  the  direc- 
tion of  the  orchestra,  when  Sey fried  was  prevented  coming, 
and  I therefore  requested  him  to  leave  it.  This  he  refused 
to  do,  with  the  remark,  that  the  Count  himself  had  ordered 
him  to  direct  the  opera,  and  at  the  express  wish  of  his 
daughter,  who  preferred  singing  under  his  direction.  As  all 
my  expostulations  were  unavailing,  and  I considered  it 
beneath  my  dignity  to  play  the  first  violin  under  so  obscure 
a director,  I quitted  the  orchestra,  and  returned  home.  The 
next  morning  I sent  in  a written  remonstrance  to  the  Count 
respecting  this  invasion  of  right  that  had  been  secured  to 
me  in  my  engagement,  and  requested,  that  I might  be  ex- 
posed to  no  further  repetition  of  it. 

The  Count,  incited  by  the  Prima  Donna , who  was  very 
incensed  because  I would  not  lead  under  the  direction  of  her 
father,  answered  me  with  rudeness  instead  of  with  the 
apologies  I had  reason  to  expect,  and  which  I replied  to 
in  yet  stronger  terms.  From  that  moment,  the  Count  and 
his  creatures  studied  to  annoy  me  in  every  possible  manner 
that  my  position  exposed  me  to.  Added  to  this,  since  Palffy 
had  been  so  fortunate  as  to  become  lessee  of  the  two  Court 
Theatres,  he  put  his  own  theatre  greatly  in  the  back-ground. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


195 


He  took  away  from  it  the  best  singers,  and  the  best  part  of 
the  chorus,  to  incorporate  them  with  the  personnel  of  the 
Karnthnerthor  - Theatre;  so  that  “an  der  Wien”,  from  that 
time,  Spectacle-pieces,  and  low  class  popular  operas  alone, 
were  given.  As  I was  not  bound  to  assist  at  these,  I had 
scarcely  any  thing  more  to  do  at  the  theatre.  I could 
therefore  clearly  see,  that  I should  be  discharged  after  the 
termination  of  my  engagement. 

As  now,  after  Napoleon  was  vanquished  and  banished 
to  Elba,  a general  European  peace  seemed  in  perspective, 
and  that  I greatly  desired  to  set  out  as  soon  as  possible 
on  my  long  projected  artistic  tour  through  all  Europe;  I 
made  a proposition  to  the  Count  to  cancel  our  agreement 
on  the  expiration  of  the  second  year,  and  demanded  as 
compensation  the  half  of  my  salary  for  the  third  year, 
paid  down  in  one  sum.  He  readily  consented  to  it,  and 
so  we  parted  in  peace.  I now  hastened  to  make  every  pre- 
paration in  order  to  be  enabled  to  commence  my  journey 
in  the  spring.  I contemplated  first,  to  travel  through  Ger- 
many and  Switzerland  to  Italy,  whither  I had  long  ardently 
desired  to  go.  As  I purposed  taking  my  children  with  me, 
foreseeing  that  their  mother  would  not  be  able  to  separate 
from  them  for  so  long  a time  without  pining  to  death; 
I was  first  of  all  obliged  to  provide  myself  with  a larger  tra- 
velling carriage  to  hold  us  all,  with  the  instruments.  The 
difficulty  was  to  build  one  for  this  purpose,  sufficiently  light 
of  draught  for  three  posthorses.  I conferred  upon  this  there- 
fore with  Herr  Lmghaus , the  clever  machinist  at  the  theatre 
“an  der  Wien”,  and  afterwards  director  of  public  buildings 
in  Berlin,  who  made  a drawing  of  the  design  suggested  in 
our  conference,  according  to  which  the  carriage  should  be 
built.  It  had  a solid  roof,  upon  which  were  packed  the  leather 
covered  harp-case,  and  a trunk  for  linen.  The  violin-case  was 
stowed  in  a boot  under  the  coachman’s  seat,  so  that  the  whole 
space  in  the  interior  of  the  vehicle  remained  for  the  travellers. 

Hi  my  relations  with  Herr  von  Tost , also,  a serious 

13* 


Digitized  by  foozle 


196 


alteration  had  taken  place.  After  the  settlement  of  our 
earlier  account,  which  was  effected  by  the  delivery  of  the 
Cantata  “Das  befreite  Deutschland”  1 had  delivered  again, 
four  manuscripts,  the  octett,  two  quartetts  and  a second 
quintett,  without  receiving  the  agreed  price.  At  first  I had 
argued  no  ill  of  this  delay  in  settlement.  But  when  it  be- 
came suddenly  reported  in  the  city,  that  the  wealthy  Herr 
von  Tost  had  sustained  severe  losses,  and  was  on  the  point 
of  bankruptcy;  that  he  no  longer  called  upon  me,  and  even 
failed  to  appear  at  a musical  - party  where  I played  one  of 
his  manuscripts,  but  sent  the  portfolio  instead  of  coming; 
the  matter  looked  dubious.  I therefore  took  back  to  him  the 
portfolio  myself,  in  order  if  possible,  to  come  to  a clear 
understanding  with  him  at  the  same  time.  1 found  the  other- 
wise so  jovial  man  very  much  depressed  in  spirits.  He  con- 
fessed to  me  his  position  without  reserve.  It  was,  he  said,  ex- 
tremely painful  to  him,  to  be  unable  to  fulfil  his  engagements 
with  me;  but  as  his  plans  for  the  future  were  unsettled  if  not 
quite  destroyed,  he  would  forthwith  return  all  my  manus- 
cripts to  me  before  the  expiration  of  the  stipulated  time,  so 
that  I might  sell  them  as  soon  as  possible  to  a publisher. 
For  the  loss  I might  thereby  sustain,  he  was  willing  to  in- 
demnify me  with  a bill  for  one  hundred  ducats,  which  as 
soon  as  his  affairs  had  assumed  a more  favourable  aspect, 
he  would  honourably  meet.  Upon  this  he  fetched  the  whole 
of  the  manuscripts  and  handed  them  to  me.  I,  who  con- 
sidered that  Herr  von  Tost  had  amply  compensated  me  for 
the  short  time  he  had  them  in  his  possession,  by  the  costly 
furniture  he  had  bought  for  me,  and  reckoned  at  so  low  an 
estimate,  was  quite  satisfied  with  the  return  of  my  manus- 
cripts and  refused  all  further  indemnification.  However,  as  I 
perceived  that  Herr  von  Tost  felt  hurt  by  this  arrangement, 
I took  the  bill,  well  knowing  that  from  my  contemplated 
departure  from  Vienna  its  early  liquidation  was  not  to  be 
thought  of. 

I now  sold  the  whole  of  the  returned  manuscripts  to 


Digitized  by  Google 


197 


Two  Vienna  publishers,  and  from  their  haying  acquired  a 
great  celebrity  by  their  frequent  performance,  I received  a 
considerable  sum  for  them. 

At  the  commencement  of  the  year  1815,  I wrote  another 
Quartett,  in  C-major  (No.  2 of  the  op.  29)  and  a new  violin 
Concerto  (the  seventh,  op.  38)  as  also  Variations,  which  remai- 
ned unpublished,  for  use  upon  the  coming  journey;  the  two 
last  of  these  compositions  I played  at  my  farewell-Concert 
on  the  19.  February  1815.  Respecting  this  last  concert  I 
gave  in  Vienna,  the  Musical  journal  spoke  very  favourably. 
Of  the  newest  violin  concerto  (E-minor.  C-major,  E-major) 
it  says:  “Very  difficult  for  the  solo  player  as  well  as  for 
those  who  accompany.  A splendid,  perfect  composition;  a 
fine  flowing  cantabile;  striking  modulations,  replete  with  bold 
canonic  imitations,  an  ever  new,  charming  and  happily  calcu- 
lated instrumentation.  The  melting  adagio  is  especially  cap- 
tivating.” In  conclusion  it  says:  “As  to^he  merits  of  this 
masterly  artist,  both  here  and  throughout  Germany  there  is 
but  one  opinion.  We  yet  remember  with  lively  satisfaction 
the  triumph,  which  he  achieved  two  years  ago  over  his  rival, 
the  great  Rode . He  is  now  about  to  leave  us  upon  a grand 
artistic  tour.  He  first  proceeds  to  Prague,  where  his  new 

opera  “Faust”  is  now  being  studied May  he,  who  by 

his  talent  and  his  open,  manly  character  has  left  an  honour- 
able memorial  of  his  worth  in  our  hearts,  meet  always,  and 
every  where  with  success!” 

I at  that  time  really  had  the  intention  of  going  first  to 
Prague,  to  be  present  at  the  production  of  my  opera,  which 
was  being  studied  under  Carl  Maria  van  Weber . But  I 
afterwards  abandoned  that  plan.  I had  in  fact  received  a 
letter  from  my  former  Intendant  Baron  von  Reibnitz  at 
Breslau,  wherein  in  the  name  of  a family  of  his  acquaintance 
that  of  Prince  von  Carolath , he  asked  me  if  I would  feel 
disposed  to  pass  the  summer  months  with  them  at  their  seat, 
Carolath , in  Silesia?  The  Princess  was  very  desirous,  that 
her  two  daughters,  one  of  whom  played  the  harp,  the  other 


Digitized  by  Google 


198 


the  pianoforte,  should  receive  instruction  in  music  from  mf 
wife.  They  would  endeavour  to  make  the  stay  of  myself 
and  family  at  their  charming  castle  as  agreable  as  possible. 
He,  the  Baron  had  been  invited  also,  and  would  be  ex- 
tremely pleased  if  I would  accept  the  invitation,  so  that  he 
might  again  pass  some  time  with  me. 

As  the  spring  and  summer  were  any  way  but  little 
favourable  seasons  of  the  year  to  give  concerts,  and  that 
Dorette  and  the  children  anticipated  much  pleasure  from  the 
stay  at  Carolath,  I readily  assented.  I therefore  hastened 
the  preparations  for  our  journey,  in  order  to  avail  ourselves 
of  the  opportunity  to  give  a few  concerts  at  Breslau  and  in 
its  neighbourhood,  before  the  fine  season  had  set  in.  The 
next  thing  was  to  effect  the  sale  of  our  furniture  and  house- 
hold chattels,  which  was  very  speedily  done,  for  immediately 
upon  the  announcement  of  the  sale,  a host  of  purchasers  pre- 
sented themselves.  As  our  furniture  was  very  elegant , and 
withal  nearly  new,  the  purchasers  bid  warmly  against  each 
other , and  we  therefore  realised  a sum  far  beyond  our  ex- 
pectation. This  as  well  as  my  Vienna  savings,  which  were 
still  in  paper  currency,  I now  took  to  a banker’s  and  changed  for 
gold.  Scarcely  had  I done  this  when  all  Vienna  was  alarmed 
by  the  intelligence  that  Napoleon  had  escaped  from  Elba, 
landed  in  France,  and  been  hailed  with  the  greatest  joy.  The 
rate  of  exchange  fell  suddenly  so  low,  that  if  I had  delayed 
the  conversion  of  my  paper  into  specie  but  one  day  more, 
I should  have  suffered  a loss  of  more  than  fifty  ducats. 

When  first  contemplating  my  grand  tour  through  Europe, 
the  idea  struck  me,  also,  of  commencing  an  album,  in  which 
I purposed  making  a collection  of  the  compositions  of  all 
the  artists  whose  acquaintance  I might  make.  I began  imme- 
diately with  the  Viennese,  and  received  from  all  the  resident 
composers  of  my  acquaintance,  short,  autographic  works 
written  for  the  most  part  expressly  for  my  album.  The  most 
valuable  contribution  to  me,  is  that  of  Beethoven.  It  is  a Canon 
for  three  voices  to  the  words  from  Schiller's  “Jungfrau  von 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


199 


Orleans” : “Kurz  ist  der  Schmerz,  und  ewig  wahrt  die  Freude.” 
It  is  worthy  of  remark,  in  the  first  place,  that  Beethoven 
whose  handwriting,  notes  as  well  as  text,  were  usually  almost 
illegible,  must  have  written  this  page  with  particular  patience; 
for  it  is  unblotted  from  beginning  to  end,  which  is  the  more 

remarkable,  since  he  even  drew  the  lines  without  the  aid  of 

a ruler;  secondly,  that  after  the  falling  in  of  the  third  voice 

a bar  is  wanting,  which  I was  obliged  to  complete.  The 

pages  concluded  with  the  wish: 

May  you  dear  Spohr  where  ever  you  find  real  art,  and 
real  artists,  think  with  pleasure  of  me,  Your  friend. 

Ludwig  van  Beethoven . 

Vienna  March  3.  1815. 

Upon  all  my  subsequent  travels  I received  contributions 
to  this  album,  and  possess  therefore  a highly  interesting  col- 
lection of  short  compositions  from  German,  Italian,  French, 
English  and  Dutch  artists.  * 

* * 

* 

On  the  eve  of  taking  leave  of  Vienna,  I yet  think  I must 
recall  some  further  incidents  of  my  stay  there,  which  hitherto 
I have  had  no  opportunity  of  relating.  First,  in  respect  of 
my  orchestral  duties.  These  were  sometimes  very  onerous 
for  me;  the  same  piece  being  frequently  represented  twenty 
or  thirty  nights  in  succession.  This  happened  not  only  with 
two  of  Mozart’s  operas  “Don  Juan”  and  the  “Zauberflote”, 
which  during  my  engagement  were  brought  out  with  a new 
distribution  of  characters  and  with  a very  brilliant  mise  en 
scene;  but,  also,  with  a ballet,  which  during  the  Congress 
was  repeated  an  innumerable  number  of  times,  and  in  which 
I had  to  play  violin  soli’s.  What  its  name  was,  I no  longer 
recollect,  but  that  the  celebrated  dancers  Duport , and  mes- 
dames  Bigottini  and  Petit  Aimee,  whom  Count  Palffy  had 
sent  for  from  Paris,  danced  in  it.  It  is  true,  I did  not  play 

* A selection  from  the  pages  of  this  album  will  be  found  in  the 
appendix. 


Digitized  by  Google 


200 


those  soli’s  unwillingly,  upon  their  own  account,  for  the 
audience  always  listened  with  the  greatest  attention,  and  were 
profuse  in  their  applause  of  me;  ]jut  it  annoyed  me  that  I 
was  obliged  to  measure  my  tempi,  by  the  steps  of  the  dancers 
and  that  I could  not  lengthen  at  pleasure  my  closes  and 
cadences,  as  the  dancers  were  unable  to  sustain  themselves 
so  long  in  their  groupings.  This  gave  rise  therefore  to  many 
bickerings  with  the  ballet  master,  until  at  length  I learned 
compliance.  I endeavoured  to  sweeten  the  monotony  of  my 
duties  in  some  degree  by  always  enriching  and  ornamenting 
my  soli  performances.  This  I did  especially  with  the  trou- 
badour in  “John  of  Paris”  for  whom  u pas  de  trois  was  in- 
troduced in  that  ballet.  As  in  the  opera  of  that  name,  there 
were  three  strophes,  the  first  of  which  had  to  be  executed  by 
the  horn,  the  second  by  the  violincello,  and  the  third  by  the 
violin,  I at  first  ornamented  my  strophe  in  a very  vocal 
style.  But  as*  I remarked,  that  the  Prima  Donna,  demoiselle 
Buchwieser  at  the  next  representation  had  borne  them  well 
in  mind,  sang  them,  and  obtained  great  applause  for  them, 
this  so  annoyed  me,  as  I could  not  bear  the  singer,  that  I 
thenceforth  ornamented  them  in  a style  she  could  not  imitate 
with  her  voice. 

Besides  the  two  above  mentioned  operas  of  Moeart , I 
experienced  a third  ordeal  in  a new  popular  - opera , with 
music  by  Hummel , which  by  a singular  chance  such  as  will 
assuredly  never  occur  again,  went  through  a long  succession 
of  nightly  representations.  It  was  called  “Princess  Eselshaut” 
and  as  far  as  the  author’s  text,  was  so  wretched  a piece  of 
patchwork,  that  in  spite  of  the  pretty  music  of  which  five  or 
six  of  the  Numbers  were  received  with  great  applause,  it  was 
at  the  conclusion  unanimously  hissed.  This  according  to 
Vienna  custom  at  once  consigned  it  to  the  tomb.  Hummel 
who  conducted,  had,  already,  quite  resignedly  expressed  him- 
self to  me,  who  in  honour  of  him  led  as  first  violin.  “Another 
pure  labour  in  vain!”  But  on  the  following  evening  when 
another  piece  was  to  have  been  announced , it  could  not  be 


Digitized  by  Google 


201 


given,  owing  to  the  illness  of  several  of  the  performers  in 
the  opera  and  play,  and  the  manager  was  therefore  obliged 
to  repeat  the  condemned  opera  though  at  the  risk  of  ex- 
citing an  uproar  in  the  theatre.  On  that  evening  nevertheless, 
just  on  account  of  the  anticipated  tumult,  the  theatre  was 
crammed  to  excess,  and  the  piece  was  hissed  at  the  end  of 
each  act,  and  again  at  the  conclusion.  But  the  musical  pieces 
met  with  more  applause  than  on  the  first  night,  and  at  the 
fall  of  the  curtain  when  the  hissing  had  ceased,  the  composer 
was  even  called  for,  and  greeted  with  vehement  applause. 
As  the  indisposition  of  the  invalids  still  continued,  a third 
trial  of  it  was  obliged  to  be  made,  which  went  off  nearly 
like  the  former  one.  Yet  was  the  opposition  against  the 
piece  much  less,  and  the  music  obtained  more  friends  than 
ever.  Thus  it  could  be  continued  with  confidence,  and  on 
the  succeeding  nights  it  again  found  new  friends  in  sufficient 
number.  At  length  it  became  the  fashion  to  go  and  hiss  the 
piece,  and  praise  the  music.  Hummel  took  speedy  advantage 
of  this,  and  published  a piano-forte  arrangement  of  the  most 
favorite  Numbers,  which  had  a rapid  sale.  So  it  was  no  “labour 
in  vain”  after  all,  as  he  had  feared  on  the  first  evening! 

Pixis,  was  not  so  fortunate  with  his  opera,  the  “Zauber- 
spruch”.  That  was  swamped  by  the  badness  of  the  libretto, 
nor  could  the  music  keep  it  above  water,  although  it  had, 
also,  many  successful  “numbers.”  It  was  the  occasion  for  the 
display  of  a bit  of  real  Viennese  wit.  A friend  of  the  com- 
poser, not  having  been  able  to  see  the  first  representation  of 
it,  enquired  of  another  who  had  been  present  “Well  what 
do  you  think  of  the  opera  of  Pixis.  — “Nix  is!”  was 
the  reply. 

I may  here  relate  another  of  my  Vienna  recollections, 
since  it  is  one  of  those  which  make  a deep  impression  and 
therefore  do  not  so  easily  fade  from  the  memory.  It  was  an 
unusually  great  inundation,  such  as  occurs  once  only  in 
every  century,  occasioned  by  the  overflowing  of  the  little 
river  “die  Wien”  on  the  banks  of  which  my  house  was 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


202 


situated.  On  that  occasion  it  was  so  great  from  the  simul- 
taneous overflowing  of  the  Danube,  which  would  not  allow 
the  waters  of  the  “Wien”  an  outlet.  I had  not  observed 
the  commencement  of  the  inundation,  being  engaged  at  a 
rehearsal  at  the  theatre.  After  it  was  over,  I found  the  street 
leading  to  my  house  already  flooded,  and  I saw  that  I must 
use  all  haste  to  be  enabled  even  to  wade  through  it. 

Nevertheless  I first  fetched  my  violin -case  out  of  the 
orchestra,  as  I foresaw  that,  also,  would  be  laid  under  water. 
By  this  time  the  flood  had  risen  so  high  that  in  some  places 
the  water  reached  above  my  knees.  I found  my  family  in 
the  greatest  consternation  and  the  other  inmates  of  the  house 
still  more  so.  My  landlord,  the  cabinet-maker,  with  his 
family,  were  already  hurrying  up  past  my  floor  to  the  top 
of  the  house,  and  endeavouring  to  secure  a dry  stowage  for 
their  effects,  in  the  loft.  He  had  need  to  hasten;  for  the 
water  rose  so  fast,  that  in  a few  hours  it  almost  reached  to 
the  first  floor.  The  terrified  inhabitants  of  the  suburb  had 
now  a scene  before  them  such  as  they  had  never  before  be- 
held. The  rushing  waters  swept  by,  bearing  along  with  them 
articles  of  every  description  commingled  in  the  strangest 
confusion.  Implements  of  husbandry,  carts  laden  with  hay  or 
wood,  the  wreck  of  stalls  and  stabling,  dead  cattle,  and  even 
a cradle  containing  a screaming  infant,  which,  however,  was 
happily  rescued  by  a boat.  The  owners  of  the  houses,  furnish- 
ed with  long  poles,  were  exerting  themselves  to  keep  off  the 
objects  as  they  floated  by,  so  that  they  might  not  damage  the 
walls  of  the  houses,  others  on  the  other  hand  provided  with 
boat  hooks,  endeavoured  to  lay  hold  of  the  furniture  and 
other  household  chattels  in  order  to  save  them,  and  pull  them 
up  into  the  windows  for  security.'  Some  hours  afterwards, 
when  such  like  articles  had  ceased  to  float  past,  boats  made 
their  appearance  laden  with  provisions,  which  were  readily 
bought  up  by  the  inhabitants  of  the  flooded  streets.  Other 
boats  towards  evening  brought  the  employes  and  men  of 
business  from  the  city  to  their  dwellings,  and  anxiously  ex- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


203 


pecting  families.  As  the  rain  also  poured  down  in  torrents, 
the  inundation  still  continued  at  the  same  height,  and  even 
at  night  fall  there  was  no  perceptible  decrease  of  the  waters. 
So  long  as  it  remained  light,  the  scene  afforded  great  diver- 
sity of  interest,  but  when  night  came  it  was  fearful  to  be- 
hold. The  roar  of  the  waters,  and  the  howling  of  the  storm 
forbade  all  thought  of  repose;  nor  was  it  advisable  to  retire 
to  rest,  as  no  one  knew  what  might  yet  occur.  I therefore 
laid  my  children  near  me  on  my  sofa  with  their  clothes  on, 
and  as  Dorette  had  soon  fallen  asleep  beside  them,  I sat 
down  to  my  work,  a new  song-composition,  in  order  to  resist 
sleep  more  effectually.  In  this  I succeeded.  But  my  zeal  at 
composition  led  me  several  times  to  the  piano,  which  the 
family  of  my  landlord  who  passed  half  the  night  in  the  floor 
above  me  upon  their  knees  in  prayer,  took  in  very  great 
dudgeon;  for  on  the  following  morning  the  nurse-maid  informed 
me,  that  the  wife  had  bitterly  exclaimed:  “That  Lutheran 
heretic  will  bring  yet  greater  misfortune  upon  us  with  his 
unchristian  singing  and  playing.”  But  the  night  passed  without 
further  misfortune,  and  by  day-break  the  water  had  greatly 
decreased.  Nevertheless,  it  was  evening  before  it  had  suffi- 
ciently subsided  to  admit  of  again  traversing  the  streets  on 
foot.  But  the  “Theatre  an  der  Wien”  remained  closed  for 
eight  days,  for  it  required  that  time  before  all  traces  of  the 
inundation  could  be  removed. 

* * 

* 

After  a sorrowful  parting  from  dear  Vienna,  where  we 
had  passed  so  many  happy  days,  I set  out  with  my  family 
upon  our  great  journey  on  the  18.  March,  1815.  My  brother 
Ferdinand  whose  engagement  at  the  “Theatre  an  der  Wien” 
was  to  last  for  another  year,  remained  alone  behind.  After 
its  expiration,  he  obtained  an  appointment  in  the  Royal 
Orchestra  of  Berlin. 

Our  first  resting  place  was  at  Briinn  , where  we  gave  a 
concert.  How  it  succeeded,  I no  longer  remember,  but  I 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


204 


well  recollect,  that  I was  very  dissatisfied  with  the  orchestral- 
accompaniment.  In  respect  to  that,  of  course  my  excellent 
orchestra  in  Vienna  had  accustomed  me  to  a very  different 
style  of  performance. 

From  Briinn  we  went  to  Breslau,  where  in  April  we 
also  gave  two  concerts;  hut.  they  were  not  well  attended. 
The  unsettled  state  of  the  public  mind  arising  from  the  re- 
commencement of  hostilities  and  from  the  great  sacrifices 
entailed  upon  each  individual  by  the  contributions  required 
of  them,  was  in  truth  then  so  general,  that  a more  unfavour- 
able time  to  give  concerts  could  not  well  have  presented 
itself.  But  in  so  musical  a city  as  Breslau,  even  in  that 
period  of  warlike  commotion,  there  was  no  dearth  of  zealous 
musical  amateurs,  to  whom  music  was  a necessary  of  life. 
I was  therefore  frequently  invited  to  private  circles,  in  which 
I had  an  opportunity  to  perform  my  Vienna  compositions  of 
Herr  von  Tost's  portfolio.  They  met  with  a brilliant  recep- 
tion, particularly  the  two  Quintetts,  which  I was  frequently 
obliged  to  repeat.  At  the  earnest  wish  of  my  friend  Schnabel , 
director  of  the  Cathedral-orchestra,  I wrote  an  Offertorium  for 
a Solo -soprano  voice  and  chorus,  with  violin  obligato  and 
orchestra,  which,  as  is  shewn  by  the  catalogue  of  my  com- 
positions was  performed  in  the  Cathedral  on  16.  April,  and 
where  I took  the  violin-part.  As  I left  behind  me  there  the 
original  score,  and  have  never  seen  it  since  that  time,  I am 
unable  to  say  whether  the  composition  has  any  merit.  Pro- 
bably it  is  still  to  be  found  in  the  library  of  the  cathedral. 

* * 

* 

On  a fine  evening  in  the  spring,  I arrived  with  my  family 
at  Carolath.  As  we  had  to  pass  over  a small  river  near  the 
castle,  in  a ferry-boat,  our  arrival  was  perceived  before  hand. 
We  therefore  found  upon  driving  into  the  Castle-court,  the 
whole  of  the  Prince’s  family  assembled  at  the  foot  of  the 
steps,  and  were  welcomed  by  them  in  the  most  friendly 
manner.  The  prince  himself  led  us  to  the  apartments  assigned 


Digitized  by  Google 


205 


to  us.  After  we  had  changed  our  dress  we  were  summoned 
to  the  supper- table.  The  Prince,  a somewhat  ceremonious  but 
friendly  and  well  meaning  man  from  fifty  eight  to  sixty  years  of 
age  received  us  at  the  entrance  of  the  dining-room,  and  intro- 
duced us  to  the  other  guests.  They  consisted  of  the  Princess 
his  second  wife,  her  sister,  a lady  passionately  fond  of  poetry 
and  music,  his  two  daughters  by  his  first  marriage,  amiable 
maidens  of  fifteen  and  seventeen  years  of  age,  and  their  tutor, 
Herr  Kartscher , a young  man  of  polished  manners.  The  conver- 
sation at  table  was  with  the  exception  of  the  somewhat  anti- 
quated formality  of  the  Prince,  both  free  from  restraint 
and  lively,  and  convinced  me  that  I was  in  a high  bred 
circle  having  a sympathy  for  all  that  was  beautiful.  Dorette 
was  also  very  pleased  with  the  conversation  of  her  neighbours 
the  Prince  and  his  sister-in-law,  and  the  children  in  whom 
the  young  ladies  had  interested  themselves  in  the  most  friendly 
manner,  were  also  extremely  happy.  Our  whole  family  looked 
forward  therefore  to  a pleasant  residence  at  the  castle. 

On  the  following  day,  the  regulations  were  forthwith 
adopted  for  the  subjects  and  hours  of  study,  which  with  few 
exceptions  remained  unchanged  during  the  whole  time  of  our 
stay.  In  the  forenoon,  while  Dorette  gave  instruction  to  the 
Princesses,  the  eldest  on  the  harp,  the  youngest  on  the  piano, 
I also  gave  the  first  music  lessons  to  my  children.  After- 
wards they  were  permitted  to  participate  in  the  lessons  given 
to  the  Princesses  by  their  tutor,  and  he  was  so  good  as  to 
adapt  his  instruction  as  much  as  possible  to  the  capacities 
of  the  children.  Meanwhile,  my  wife  and  I occupied  ourselves 
with  our  own  musical-studies,  or  I composed.  As  the  members 
of  the  Prince’s  family  were  very  fond  of  singing,  this  was  in- 
ducement sufficient  to  me  to  write  two  small  books  of  songs,  the 
text  of  which  was  furnished  by  the  sister  of  the  Princess  from 
her  large  collection  of  poetical  pieces.  Among  these  were 
also  some  poems  of  Herr  Kartscher . Both  volumes  were  publish- 
ed by%  Peters  of  Leipsic  as  op.  37,  and  41.  When  the  studies 
of  the  forenoon  were  terminated,  a careful  toilette  was  made 


Digitized  by  foozle 


206 


by  all,  to  appear  at  the  dinner- table , as  it  was  always  the 
custom  with  the  Prince’s  family  to  dine  en  parure , or  full 
dress.  The  remainder  of  the  day  was  devoted  to  social  inter- 
course and  amusements.  When  the  weather  was  fine,  coffee 
was  served  in  the  castle  garden,  and  towards  evening  an  ex- 
cursion-drive was  made  into  the  neighbouring  environs.  A 
farm  belonging  to  the  Prince  was  a frequent  object  of  our 
visit,  and  either  there  or  in  the  woods  around  it  we  frequently 
partook  of  a rustic  supper.  At  other  times  when  the  weather 
was  overcast,  or  that  visitors  came  from  neighbouring  parts, 
we  had  music  in  the  evening.  As  soon,  however,  as  Herr 
von  Reibnitz  arrived  as  guest  at  the  Castle,  an  attempt  at 
Quartett  music  was  made.  The  old  valet  of  the  Prince  who 
in  his  younger  days  had  played  the  violincello,  was  then 
summoned  to  produce  his  instrument,  the  schoolmaster  of  the 
village  his  viol,  and  Herr  von  Reibnitz  took  the  second  violin. 
Unfortunately  I had  no  other  Quartetts  with  me,  than  my 
own,  which  were  certainly  never  written  for  such  performers. 
The  first  attempt  therefore  was  very  discouraging.  But  as 
the  others  evinced  much  zeal,  I was  not  wanting  in  patience 
and  endurance;  and  by  dint  of  several  rehearsals  I succeeded 
so  far  as  to  enable  me  to  let  the  company  hear  two  of  my 
quartetts.  They  were  not  so  well  accustomed  to  enjoyments 
in  art  as  not  to  receive  their  performance  with  great  appro- 
bation. A polonaise  also,  which  I then  wrote  (op.  40,  publish- 
ed by  Peters)  pleased  greatly,  and  soon  became  a frequently 
requested  and  favorite  piece  with  the  company,  perhaps,  me- 
rely, because  they  had  seen  it  composed.  After  I and  my 
family  had  passed  the  first  two  months  of  our  residence  in 
Carolath  in  this  sufficiently  pleasant  though  somewhat  uniform 
manner,  the  Prince  announced  one  day  at  dinner  with  some 
solemnity,  that  he  would  be  obliged  to  leave  his  dear  guests 
for  one  day,  as  it  was  his  custom  every  year  on  the  24.  June 
to  proceed  to  Glogau,  to  be  present  at  the  Freemason’s  festival 
of  St.  John.  This  induced  me  upon  rising  from  table  to  make 
myself  known  to  him  as  a brother  Mason,  which  so  agreably 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


207 


surprised  the  Prince  that  he  immediately  invited  me  to  accom- 
pany him  on  the  journey.  I have  forgotten  to  relate  that 
I had  already  become  a freemason  in  Gotha,  had  there  re- 
ceived after  the  expiration  of  a year  the  second  degree  of  the 
order,  and  a year  later  on  a journey  to  Berlin,  the  third,  of 
master-mason.  But  as  in  Austria,  freemasonry  was  prohibited, 
and  that  for  two  years  and  a half  I had  frequented  no  lodge, 
I longed  to  assist  once  more  at  a meeting  of  the  brothers. 
The  Prince’s  invitation  to  accompany  him  to  Glogau  came 
therefore  very  opportunely.  Grand  preparations  were  forth- 
with made.  The  great  travelling  carriage  emblazoned  with 
the  Prince’s  armorial  bearings  was  drawn  out  of  the  coach- 
house, and  cleansed  from  dust;  a Jager,  and  another  ser- 
vant had  squeezed  himself  into  the  state  livery,  and  the 
Prince  himself  made  his  appearance  for  the  first  time  in 
state  - uniform , with  his  star  upon  his  breast.  We  set  out 
early  on  the  morning  of  the  24.  Arrived  at  the  lodge,  the 
Prince  was  received  and  welcomed  by  a deputation,  and  his 
guest,  also,  after  having  testified  his  prerogative,  was  greeted 
as  a brother  in  the  most  friendly  manner.  After  the  meeting 
of  the  work -lodge,  a splendid  dinner -lodge  followed,  in 
which  I joined  the  musical  brethren,  directed  their  singing, 
and  myself,  sang  with  my  powerful  bass  voice  some  mason’s 
songs  and  the ‘ Heiligen  Hallen”  from  the  ‘‘Zauberflote.”  Among 
the  musical  brothers  I found  several  acquaintances  of  my 
earlier  travels  through  Silesia,  who  eagerly  sought  to  honour 
me  with  their  attentions. 

The  chairman,  also,  welcomed  the  „renowned  craftsman” 
to  the  circle  of  brothers,  and  thanked  the  Prince  for  having 
introduced  him.  The  Prince  seemed  greatly  pleased  to  find 
the  honours  paid  to  his  guest,  redound  to  his  own,  for  on 
his  return  to  Carolath  he  redoubled  his  already  great  atten- 
tions towards  me  and  my  family,  so  that  we  were  even 
frequently  embarrassed  by  them. 

After  a further  highly  agreable  stay  of  from  six  to  eight 
weeks,  we  resumed  our  journey  through  Dresden  and  Leipzic 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


208 


to  Gotha.  Returned  thither  after  an  absence  of  nearly  three 
years  from  her  home,  Dorette  felt  so  happy,  that  I could  not 
think  of  leaving  it  for  some  time.  I therefore  settled  down 
quietly  for  a few  months,  and  only  made  a few  short  ex- 
cursions in  the  neighbourhood.  The  first  was  to  my  parents 
at  Gandersheim,  where  my  father  had  in  the  meanwhile  been 
transferred  as  District  - Physician , and  from  thence  to  Han- 
over, where  I gave  a concert.  The  second  was  to  Franken- 
hausen,  where  Bischoff  got  up  another  musical  festival. 

Here  begins  one  of  my  diaries  which  I continued  without 
any  break  off  up  to  my  return  from  Italy.  The  title  is 
“Passing  Remarks,  during  a Musical- tour”  and  the  work 
begins : 

Frankenhausen , Oct.  19.  1815. 

“ In  Hanover  we  made  the  interesting  acquaintance 

of  the  Violinist , and  the  highly  uninteresting  one  of  the  Man , 
Kiesewetter.  As  violinist  he  is  distinguished  for  a powerful 
very  pure,  and  even  feeling  style  of  play,  without  however 
as  it  seems  to  me,  a true  feeling  for  the  beauties  of  art;  as  a 
man,  he  is  the  most  inflated  wind-bag,  that  I ever  met!  He 
conducted  in  our  concert  on  the  11.  October,  but  without 
certainty  and  foresight. 

“After  a pause  of  three  years,  the  musicians  of  Thuringia 
have  again  assembled  here,  for  the  purpose  of  celebrating 
after  the  speedily  terminated  war,  the  now  complete  eman- 
cipation of  Germany,  upon  the  anniversary  of  the  Leipsic 
“Battle  of  the  Nations”,  in  a manner  worthy  of  the  musical 
science.  This  day,  the  first  of  the  musical  festival,  the  per- 
formance of  my  Cantata  “Das  befreite  Deutschland”  and  the 
“Te  Deum”  of  Gottfried  Weber,  took  place.  As  it  would  not 
beseem  me  as  composer  to  express  an  opinion  of  my  own 
work,  we  will  here  alone  speak  of  its  performance.  The  solo- 
parts  were  throughout  not  well  distributed,  for  which  reason 
the  arias  and  ensemble  parts  produced  the  least  effects.  But 
the  chorus  and  the  orchestra  were  excellent,  and  therefore 
the  overture  and  collective  choruses  produced  a great  sensa- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


209 


tion.  The  double  chorus  of  the  flying  French  and  that  of  the 
pursuing  Russians  followed  by  the  Prayer  of  thanks  of  the 
German  peoples,  and  the  concluding  chorus  with  the  fuge, 
pleased  the  most.  I again  experienced  that  in  a spacious 
locality,  and  with  a numerous  orchestra  and  chorus,  the  most 
simple  subjects  when  written  in  a worthy  and  noble  style 
produce  the  greatest  effects;  that  on  the  other  hand,  a richness 
of  figures  in  the  instrumentation,  and  a rapidly  changing 
sequence  of  harmony  are,  there,  by  no  means  in  their  proper 
place.  The  Te  Deum  of  Gottfried  Weber  which  had  been 
greatly  extolled  in  favourable  reviews  of  it  in  the  public 
journals,  did  not  quite  fulfil  my  expectations.  It  betrays  too 
much  that,  it  was  not  the  production  of  a moment  of  inspira- 
tion, but  rather  of  cold  speculation.  The  very  commencement 
is  a straining  after  effect,  and  as  introduction  to  a Te  Deum , 
certainly  very  unsuited.  To  what  purpose  the  long  roll  of 
the  kettle-drums  that  sounds  like  a passing  peal  of  thunder? 
And  then,  above  all,  the  ensuing  flourish  of  four  trumpets  and 
sackbuts,  like  that  with  which  cavalry  draws  up  on  parade?” 

October,  20. 

“On  the  second  day,  a miscellaneous  Concert  took  place 
in  the  following  order:  A Symphony  of  Mozart  (C-Major) 
executed  with  spirit  and  precision,  its  effect  was  ravishing  1 
To-day  I became  convinced  that  in  a spacious  locale , and 
with  a powerfully  oppointed  orchestra,  the  four  themes  of 
the  concluding  fuge,  at  the  part  where  they  combine  to  form 
the  finale,  can  be  right  well  understood  by  a practised  ear. 
If,  hitherto,  this  part  appeared  to  me  more  scientific  than 
effective,  I was  this  day  convinced  of  my  error.  2dly  a 
violin-Concerto  (E-Minor)  my  own.  To-day,  I again  became 
convinced,  that,  the  masses  are  far  more  taken  with  the  skil- 
ful and  brilliant  execution  of  the  virtuoso,  than  by  the  merit 
of  the  composition.  All  were  delighted  with  my  play,  and 
but  few  adverted  as  well  to  the  composition.  3dljr  an  Italian 
air  with  chorus,  by  Paer,  sung  by  Herr  Strohmeyer.  This 

8POHB,  Autobiography.  L 14 


Digitized  by  Google 


210 


aria  from  an  Oratorio  called  “La  Religione ” is  written  in  so 
unecclesiastical  a style,  that  with  a change  of  the  text  it  might 
be  converted  into  a right  good  Opera  buffa.  During  the 
time  that  the  impersonation  of  Religion  ( who  certainly  might 
with  much  more  propriety,  sing  soprano,  instead  of  bass) 
executes  the  most  common  place  operatic  melodies,  shakes 
and  throat  - tearing  bounds,  the  chorus  screams  now  and  then 
unisono,  and  fortissime,  Santa ! Santa!  between;  just  as  a 
robber- band  would  call  out  to  travellers  the  “Stand!  your 
money  or  your  life !”  As  this  aria  gave  Herr  Strohmeyei 
an  opportunity  to  display  his  fine  and  powerful  voice  as  well 
as  his  skill  in  its  management,  it  was  received  with  great 
applause.  4,hly  an  Adagio  and  Potpourri  of  mine  for  the 
clarinet,  played  by  Herr  Hermst-edt , likewise  very  favorably 
received.  Yet  I found , and  several  other  musicians  were  of 
the  same  opinion,  that,  though  Hermstedt  constantly  made 
more  progress  in  the  technics  of  his  instrument , he  did 
not  devellope  his  taste  in  the  same  degree.  His  execution 
has  somewhat  of  a mannerism  that  borders  on  caricature. 
5tMy  a patriotic  song  on  the  melody  of  “God  save  the  king” 
with  orchestral  and  organ  accompaniment  by  Methfessel.  The 
public  to  whom  the  words  had  been  distributed,  joined  in.” 

Poor  Bischoff  did  not  find  his  account  in  this  third 
Frankeiihausen  musical  festival.  The  reason  of  the  deficit  in 
the  receipts  was  doubtless  the  quartering  of  Russian  troops 
in  the  neighbourhood,  which  kept  both  the  town  and  country 
residents  from  attending  the  festival.  As  Bischoff  was  not 
in  a position  to  cover  this  deficit  from  his  own  means,  the 
musicians  who  had  assisted,  agreed,  upon  my  proposition,  to 
defray  their  own  expenses  of  the  journey  both  ways,  and  to 
collect  the  necessary  sum  by  a concert  to  be  given  on  their 
return  home.  To  that  effect  1 also  gave  one  at  Gotha  on 
the  28.  October,  in  which  Andreas  Romberg  who  since  two 
years  had  been  director  of  concerts  there,  supported  me  in 
the  most  friendly  manner. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


211 


Gotha , October,  29. 

My  intercourse  with  Andreas  Romberg , the  educated  and 
reflective  artiste,  afforded  me  again  many  hours  of  rich  en- 
joyment. But  I again  found  that  he  performs  his  compositions 
in  an  indiscribably  cold  and  dry  manner,  as  though  he  him- 
self did  not  feel  the  beauties  they  contain!  He  played  several 
of  his  Quartetts,  which  I had  long  admired,  because  I had 
frequently  heard  them  played  by  others,  and  have  myself 
played  them;  but  the  soul  which  they  so  plainly  bespeak, 
and  which  every  violinist  by  whom  I have  heard  them  played 
till  now  has  rightly  seized,  seems  to  have  remained  unknown 
to  him,  for  in  his  execution  of  them,  no  trace  of  it  was  to 
be  discovered!  It  struck  me  as  remarkable,  also,  that  his 
predeliction  leaned  more  especially  to  those  which  seemed  to 
me  the  weakest.  But  I was  yet  more  astonished  that  he  often 
takes  his  tempi,  according  to  my  feeling,  false,  and  thereby 
frequently  spoils  their  effect  ; for  I almost  invariably  found 
the  Allegro’s  too  slow,  and  the  Adagio’s  too  fast. 

Meiningcn,  October,  31. 

We  gave  a concert  here  to-day,  at  which  the  Dutchess 
and  the  whole  Court  were  present.  Herr  Wassermanin,  one 
of  the  cleverest  of  my  former  pupils,  played  my  Concertante 
with  me. 

Wurzburg,  Nov.,  10. 

I made  here  the  acquaintance  of  two  known  artistes, 
that  of  Herr  Frohlich,  and  of  Witt.  The  former,  Professor  at 
the  University,  lectures  on  aesthetics  and  is  in  many  respects 
a highly  talented  artist,  as  well  as  a zealous  contributor 
to  the  Musical  journal.  As  a critic  he  appears  tolerably 
conscientious,  but  I remarked,  that  he  also,  like  many  other 
reviewers,  writes  opinions  upon  works  without  having  the  score 
before  him.  He  that  knows  how  difficult  it  is  even  with  the 
aid  of  the  score,  to  acquire  a knowledge  of  a work  from 
merely  reading  it,  must  be  greatly  astonished  that  these  gent- 
lemen will  commit  such  an  oversight,  and  merely  place  the 
separate  voices  side  by  side,  and  alternately  cast  their  eyes 

14* 


Digitized  by  Google 


on  each.  In  a work  of  many  voices,  the  perusal  of  the  score 
is  not  alone  sufficient,  to  enable  a correct  judgement  to  be 
pronounced;  it  is  necessary  also  to  have  heard  it,  and  well 
performed  too! 

Witt  is  Concert  - master  of  the  formerly  grand -ducal 
Court-orchestra,  which  as  well  as  the  personnel  of  the  singers 
of  the  Castle- church,  after  the  acquisition  of  the  grand -duchy 
by  Bavaria  are  still  continued  in  pay  as  formerly,  and  have 
remained  up  till  now  at  their  full  complement.  It  is  kept 
in  good  play- practice,  and  accompanied  me  to  my  full  satis- 
faction in  the  concert  we  gave  on  the  7.  November.  I ex- 
perienced much  pleasure  also  from  the  performance  of  one 
of  Haydn's  masses  in  the  Castle-church,  which  was  excellently 
executed  under  Witt's  direction.  Herr  Witt  let  me  hear  on 
the  piano,  his  oratorio,  “Die  vier  Menschenalter”  (“The  four 
ages  of  man”).  As  he  played  badly,  and  if  possible  sung 
still  worse,  it  would  be  premature  in  me,  from  what  I heard 
and  read  after  him  of  the  score,  to  give  an  opinion  of  the 
effect  the  work  would  produce  when  performed.  Yet  it 
seemed  to  me  somewhat  common-place,  and  here  and  there, 
almost  trivial.  Nevertheless,  the  fuges  and  some  other  “Num- 
bers’7 written  in  the  severe  style  showed  great  skill  in  counter- 
point. 

Niirnberg,  Nov.,  16. 

Music  appears  very  little  cultivated  in  the  ancient  Imperial 
city,  for  the  orchestra  here  is  remarkably  bad.  At  our  con- 
cert yesterday,  there  was  it  is  true  both  a numerous  audience 
and  no  want  of  applause  of  our  performance,  but  every  thing 
accompanied  by  the  orchestra  was  totally  spoiled  by  it. 

To  render  my  diary  complete,  1 must  here  add  that, 
in  Niirnberg,  young  Molique , then  about  fourteen  years  of 
age  introduced  himself  to  me,  and  requested  me  to  give  him 
instruction  in  music  during  my  stay  in  Niirnberg;  this  I 
readily  assented  to,  for  the  lad  already  then  gave  evidence  of 
very  uncommon  talent  for  his  years.  As  Molique , since  that 
time,  by  an  assiduous  study  of  my  violin-compositions  formed 


Digitized  by  foozle 


213 


himself  more  and  more  upon  my  model  in  style  of  play,  and 
therefore  called  himself  Spohr’s  pupil.  I have  mentioned  this 
circumstance  in  a supplementary  manner. 

Munich , Dec.,  12.  1815. 

Our  stay  here  afforded  us  much  artistic  enjoyment.  Al- 
ready on  the  day  after  our  arrival  we  were  present  at  an  in- 
teresting concert,  the  first  of  the  twelve  winter-concerts  given 
every  year  by  the  royal  orchestra  upon  their  own  account. 
These  concerts  are  very  numerously  attended,  and  merit  it 
in  a high  degree.  The  orchestra  consists  of  the  simple  har- 
mony, twelve  first,  twelve  second  - violins , eight  viols,  ten 
violincelli  and  six  double-basses.  The  violins  and  basses  are 
excellent,  and  the  wind  instruments,  also,  up  to  the  horns. 
At  every  concert,  a whole  Symphony  is  performed;  (which  is 
the  more  praiseworthy,  from  its  becoming  unfortunately  daily 
more  rare,  and  that  the  public  for  that  reason  are  losing 
more  and  more  the  taste  for  that  noble  kind  of  instrumental- 
music);  then  an  overture,  two  vocal,  and  two  concert  pieces. 
As  the  Court- orchestra  of  Munich  still  maintains  its  ancient 
repute  as  one  of  the  first  in  the  world , my  expectation  was 
greatly  on  the  stretch;  yet  was  it  far  exceeded  by  the  execu- 
iton  of  Beethoven's  Symphony  in  C-Minor,  with  which  this 
first  concert  was  opened.  It  is  scarcely  possible,  that  it  could 
have  been  performed  with  more  spirit,  more  power,  and  at 
the  same  time  with  greater  delicacy,  as  also,  throughout,  with 
a closer  observance  of  all  the  shades  of  forte  and  piano ! It 
produced  therefore  a greater  effect,  also,  than  I had  beleived 
it  capable  of,  although  I had  already  frequently  heard  it. 
and  even  under  the  direction  of  the  composer  himself  in  Vienna. 
Nevertheless,  I found  no  reason  to  retract  my  former  opinion 
respecting  it.  Though  with  many  individual  beauties,  yet  it 
does  not  constitute  a classical  whole.  For  instance,  the  intro- 
ductory theme  of  the  very  first  passage  is  wanting  in  that 
dignity  which  according  to  my  feeling  the  commencement  of 
a Symphony  should  of  a necessity  possess.  Setting  this  aside, 
the  short  and  easily  comprehended  theme,  certainly  permits 


Digitized  by  Google 


214 


of  being  carried  out  very  thematically,  and  is  combined 
also  by  the  composer  with  the  other  principal  ideas  of  the  first 
subject  in  an  ingenious  and  effective  manner.  The  Adagio  in 
as  is  in  part  very  fine,  yet  the  same  passages  and  modula- 
tions repeat  themselves  much  too  frequently , and  although 
always  with  richer  ornamentation,  become  in  the  end  weari- 
some. The  Scherzo , is  highly  original,  and  of  real  romantic 
colouring,  but  the  Trio  with  the  noisy  running  bass  is  to  my 
taste  much  too  rough.  The  concluding  passage  with  its  un- 
meaning noise,  is  the  least  satisfactory ; nevertheless  the  return 
to  the  Scherzo  at  this  part  is  so  happy  an  idea,  that  the 
composer  may  be  envied  for  it.  Its  effect  is  most  captivating  I 
But  what  a pity  that  this  impression  is  so  soon  obliterated 
by  the  returning  noise  ! 

In  this  first  concert  we  heard  also  Herr  Rovelli , a young 
and  but  recently  engaged  violinist,  in  a Concerto  in  C-Minor 
by  Lafond  which  is  excellent,  and  was  executed  to  the  satisfac- 
tion of  all.  This  young  artist,  a pupil  of  Kreutzer , combines 
with  the  chief  excellencies  of  the  Parisian  school  that  which 
is  usually  wanting  with  pupils,  viz,  feeling  and  peculiar  taste. 
The  chief  points  of  excellence  in  that  school  consist  in  a 
careful  study  and  development  of  the  Technics  of  the  instrument, 
in  which,  however,  the  real  cultivation  of  art  is  very  frequently 
neglected.  This,  nevertheless,  is  not  the  case  with  Herr  Rovelli; 
for  he  reads  well  from  the  sheet,  and  knows  how  to  accom- 
pany, as  I afterwards  had  an  opportunity  of  proving  when 
playing  my  quartetts. 

Madame  Bamberger  from  Wurzburg,  of  whose  fine  second- 
tenor  voice  and  good  school,  I had  there  already  heard  spoken 
of  in  such  praise,  sang  in  the  concert,  but  appeared  nervous, 
which-  was  probably  the  reason  why  she  took  breath  so  fre- 
quently, and  rendered  the  tones  so  imperfectly. 

In  the  second  subscription-concert,  we  heard  Herr  Flad, 
who  performed  an  hautboy- concerto  in  a very  brilliant  manner. 
He  has  a very  fine  tone,  and  a very  tasteful  execution.  Herr 
Legrand , on  the  other  hand,  who  played  Romberg's  violincello- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


215 


concerto  in  E- Minor,  seems  to  me  to  be  already  going  down 
hill,  for  his  play  is  wanting  both  in  power  of  endurance,  and 
in  sure,  and  pure  intonation.  An  overture  from  the  Romeo 
and  Juliet  by  Steibelt , does  not  reach  beyond  common-place. 

In  the  third  subscription-concert,  my  Symphony  in  E-Major 
was  exceedingly  well  performed  under  the  spirited  yet  circum- 
spect direction  of  Herr  Concertmaster  Maralt , and  made  more 
effect  here  than  in  Frankenhausen,  where  1 had  heard  it  for 
the  first  time  four  years  ago.  Herr  Franzl  director  of  music, 
played  his  old  violin -concerto  in  C-Major  with  Turkish-music. 
Its  composition  is  in  the  namby-pamby  taste  of  Pleyel's  time, 
and  will  never  suit  the  taste  of  the  present  day.  His  play 
is  just  a6  antiquated,  and  retains  of  its  former  excellence 
nothing  but  its  vigour,  but  which  now  carries  him  frequently 
away  into  an  indistinctness  and  want  of  purity  in  intonation. 
Although  this  was  the  case  to-day,  also,  yet  he  was  applauded 
like  mad.  This  might  have  impressed  a stranger  with  an 
unfavourable  opinion  of  the  taste  of  the  people  of  Munich, 
had  it  not  been  evident,  how  well  a small  party  of  his  per- 
sonal friends  knew  to  carry  away  the  public  by  an  uproarious 
clapping  of  hands,  and  a vigorous  shouting  of  bravo.  Though 
it  certainly  may  be  conceded  to  an  artist  who  excelled  in 
former  times,  that  he  should  still  meet  with  applause,  in  later 
years,  yet  this  may  readily  mislead  him  to  overstep  the  period 
when  he  should  cease  to  appear  in  public. 

In  the  fourth  subscription-concert , I played  with  Herr 
Rovelli,  my  Concertante,  in  satisfaction  of  the  expectation  that 
every  foreign  artist  who  desires  to  be  supported  in  his  own 
concerts  by  the  royal  orchestra,  is  in  duty  bound  to  play  in 
one  of  the  subscription-concerts.  I never  heard  my  Concer- 
tante to  better  advantage.  Herr  Rovelli  had  practised  his 
part  with  the  greatest  attention  and  played  in  a masterly 
manner.  The  accompaniment  was  equally  good.  The  Adagio 
with  the  three  violincelli- obligati  had  a particularly  fine  effect. 

Vogler’s  celebrated  overture  to  “Castor  and  Pollux”  did 
not  come  up  with  my  expectations.  It  begins  in  a spirited 


Digitized  by 


Google 


and  powerful  manner  it  is  true,  but  becomes  lame  towards 
the  end,  and  the  commencement  itself  derives  its  effect  only 
from  the  noise  of  the  brass  instruments. 

On  the  third  of  December,  we  played  before  the  Queen 
in  her  private  apartments,  where  besides  herself  and  the 
King,  a few  only  of  the  61ite  of  the  Court  were  present. 
Both  Sovereigns  appeared  to  take  great  interest  in  our  play, 
for  they  loaded  us  with  civilities  Besides  ourselves,  Madame 
Dnlcken,  a distinguished  artiste  played  also,  with  her  daughter 
and  pupil,  a Rondeau  by  Steibelt  for  two  piano-forti. 

On  the  sixth,  our  public  concert  took  place  in  the  Re- 
douten-saloon,  which  the  Queen  also  honoured  with  her  pre- 
sence, a mark  of  distinction,  that  for  many  years  had  been 
shewn  to  no  foreign  artists.  I derived  a great  satisfaction 
from  hearing  my  compositions  again  performed  with  so  much 
brilliancy. 

In  the  Museum,  I found  the  Musical-journal,  and  therein 
a notice  of  the  last  musical-festival  at  Frankenhausen,  which 
also  contains  an  opinion  upon  my  Cantata:  “The  emancipation 
of  Germany.”  The  writer  adduced  so  many  shallow  and 
false  objections  to  that  work,  that  I was  greatly  inclined  to 
reply  to  it,  had  I not  come  to  the  resolution  since  my  paper- 
war  with  Mosel,  never  again  to  write  an  anti-criticism. 

WUreburg , Dec.,  26. 

On  our  journey  thither  from  Munich , we  have  given  in 
ten  days,  in  four  different  towns,  four  flying  concerts,  that 
we  had  previously  made  arrangements  for,  which  were  nume- 
rously attended,  and  returned  a rich  harvest;  viz,  on  the  16. 
in  Nuremberg,  on  the  18.  in  Erlangen,  on  the  22.  in  Bam- 
berg, and  yesterday,  the  first  day  after  Christmasday,  here.  It 
was  nevertheless  an  arduousex  ertion,  particularly  for  Dorette; 
the  continual  packing  up  and  unpacking,  rehearsing  and 
concert-giving  I We  will  now  give  ourselves  a little  rest.  — 
The  day  before  yesterday,  I let  Herr  Professor  Frohlich  hear 
my  two  Vienna  Quartetts,  dedicated  to  Romberg,  chiefly  with 
the  view  that  he  might  notice  them  in  the  musical-journal. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


217 


They  went  off  well,  and  therefore  did  not  fail  to  make  a 
favourable  impression  upon  the  hearers. 

Frankfurt  on  the  Mayne,  January,  14.  1816. 

Our  stay  here  was  but  very  poor  in  art-enjoyments.  During 
the  whole  time,  not  a single  concert  besides  our  own,  not  one 
musical  party  I While  eight  years  ago,  on  our  first  coming 
here  we  scarcely  could  find  time  to  satisfy  all  the  invitations 
to  musical-soirees,  now,  not  one  of  the  Frankfurt  musical 
amateurs  (if  indeed  there  are  any  left)  takes  it  into  his  head 
to  make  a single  demand  upon  our  talents. 

Even  the  theatre  offered  nothing  very  attractive,  and  only 
one,  (for  us  new)  opera,  viz,  ‘‘Carlo  Fioras”  by  Frdnzl , was 
performed.  — Madame  Graff  in  this  opera,  and  as  the  coun- 
tess, in  the  “Marriage  of  Figaro”  proved  herself  a singer  of 
an  excellent  school,  gifted  with  feeling  and  taste.  The  remain- 
ing personnel  of  vocalists  is  of  no  importance,  but  the  orchestra 
excellent,  and  worthy  of  its  ancient  repute. 

On  the  twelfth,  we  gave  a concert  at  the  Red-House. 
Madame  Graff  sang  brilliantly  the  grand  scena  from  “Faust.” 
The  orchestra  accompanied  with  predeliction,  and  the  greatest 
precision. 

We  passed  a day  rich  in  music  at  the  house  of  Andri, 
in  Offenbach.  I found  him  mounted  upon  a new  hobby,  which 
he  rode  with  yet  greater  self  satisfaction  than  his  former  ones. 
It  was  called  “declamation  1”  He  is  firmly  convinced,  and  affirms 
it  also  with  honest  openheartedness,  that  with  the  exception 
of  himself,  no  composer,  from  Mozart  to  Bomhard  has  under- 
stood how  to  declaim  a song  properly,  and  to  set  it  to  music 
as  it  ought  to  be.  He  has  therefore  taken  compassion  of  that 
neglected  art-orphan,  and  written  a number  of  pattern-songs! 
He  had  heard  of  my  new  songs  and  urged  me  to  sing  them. 
But  already  at  the  second,  he  found  a reason  to  return  to  his 
own.  Fraulein  von  Goldner  his  pupil,  sang  them,  and  really 
in  a most  charming  manner.  It  is  not  to  be  denied,  that  she 
declaims  correctly,  and  has  given  a reading  to  several  of  them 
both  new  and  interesting  in  its  kind.  When  executed  besides 


Digitized  by 


Google 


218 


in  so  masterly  a manner  as  they  are  by  Fraulein  von  Goldner ; 
the  effect  is  certainly  very  great.  I readily  admitted  this, 
but  did  not  conceal  from  him  at  the  same  time  what  I 
thought  objectionable  therein:  which  is  principally,  that  he 
has  frequently  sacrificed  both  form,  rhythm,  and  melody  to 
the  right  declamation.  In  order  to  avoid  the  fault  of  many 
song-composers,  who  restrict  themselves  too  stringently  to 
the  rhythm  of  the  poem,  he  has  fallen  into  the  opposite  ex- 
treme. In  order  to  give  every  syllable  its  proper  duration 
and  accent,  he  frequently  changes  the  time  in  many  of  these 
songs,  and  thereby  destroys  the  rhythm  as  well  as  the  melody. 
Thus,  the  hearer  cannot  follow,  and  feels  dissatisfied.  I had 
further  to  object,  that,  the  piano  accompaniment  to  most  of 
these  songs  is  too  much  obligato,  and  distracts  the  attention 
from  the  song.  Some  sound  like  independant  piano-fantasia's, 
to  which  the  song  has  heen  adapted.  The  selfsatisfaction 
with  which  Andre  gave  us  these  songs  to  hear,  was  quite  un- 
bearable. For  instance,  he  took  an  old  song  of  Schulze : 
uO  selig.  wer  liebt”  sang  it  burlesqued  to  make  it  appear 
ridiculous,  and  then  requested  Fraulein  von  Goldner  to  execute 
his  own  on  the  same  text.  “Aha!”  said  every  one  of  the 
company,  “You  shew  us  the  shadow  first,  that  the  light  may 
have  the  greater  effect  afterwards!”  This  ill  treatment  of  an 
old  meritorious  composer  annoyed  me  so  much,  that  I could 
not  refrain  from  saying: 

“Dear  AndrSy  you  seem  to  forget,  that  it  does  not  redound 
to  the  credit  of  your  song,  that  it  should  require  a piece  of 
buffoonery  to  introduce  it;  that  this  song  of  Schulze  was  com- 
posed upwards  of  five  and  twenty  years  ago.  when  the  notions 
of  song-composition  were  very  different  from  what  they  now 
are;  that  the  melody,  which  appears  antiquated  to  us.  was 
new  at  that  time,  and  that  you  in  the  end  have  made  no 
happy  selection  for  your  purpose,  since  this  song  with  all 
its  simplicity  of  form  and  melody  is  nevertheless  correctly 
declaimed,  and  in  the  repetition  of  the:  “0  selig,  wer  liebt” 
at  the  end  of  every  strophe,  has  some  depth  of  feeling  in  it, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


— 219  — 

whereas  it  is  very  problematical  whether  our  songs  will  impart 
so  much  pleasure  after  a lapse  of  five  and  twenty  years,  as 
this  song  is  still  capable  of  doing  when  it  is  well  sung.” 

Andre  seemed  somewhat  ashamed,  and  from  that  moment 
evinced  much  more  discretion.  I was  now  desirous  to  gratify 
his  wish  to  hear  some  of  my  Vienna  Quartetts  and  Quintetts; 
but  the  accompaniment  was  so  bad,  that  I soon  relinquished 
it,  and  gave  no  more  than  the  first. 

After  dinner,  Herr  Aloys  Schmitt  gave  us  a Fantasia 
upon  the  piano  “A  sea  voyage  with  a storm”.  Although  this 
trivial  style  of  thing  first  introduced  by  Wolffl,  was  not  bad, 
yet  from  so  clever  a virtuoso  on  the  piano  I should  have 
expected  to  hear  something  more  refined  and  solid. 

In  the  evening,  Andre  took  us  to  Herr  Ewald , a great 
lover  of  music,  at  whose  house  the  Offenbach  Singing-academy 
had  assembled  to  let  him  hear  three  compositions  which  they 
had  practised  with  great  care.  It  was  called  “Die  drei  Worte” 
(The  three  Words)  of  Schiller , set  to  music  by  Aloys  Schmitt , 
a patriotic  chorus  by  AndrS,  and  “Die  Biirgschaft”  (The  pledge) 
by  Schiller,  also  composed  by  Aloys  Schmitt , all  with  piano- 
forte accompaniment.  The  chorus  numbered  about  forty  eight 
voices,  and  the  performance  succeeded  well.  The  only  regret 
was,  that  the  locality  was  not  more  spacious.  The  music  to 
the  “Drei  Worte”  pleased  me  very  much.  It  evinced  a great 
talent  for  that  kind  of  lyrical  composition.  The  poem  is  also 
right  well  adapted  to  it.  The  second;  “Die  Biirgschaft”  is 
less  so.  In  this,  the  composer  distributes  the  persons  repre- 
sented as  speaking,  among  the  several  solo-voices ; but  it  sounds 
very  strange  to  hear  these  sing  what  the  poet  relates.  The 
chorus  has  its  share  in  the  text  distributed  in  the  same  arbi- 
trary manner.  It  is  nevertheless  not  to  be  denied,  that  several 
of  their  entrees  have  an  extraordinary  effect,  as  for  instance, 
where  it  says:  “Und  unendlicher  Regen  giesset  herab”.  “And 
neverceasing  rain  pours  down”,  and  later,  where  the  exhausted 
wanderer  hears  the  murmering  of  a spring  of  water.  The 
whole  poem  throughout  is  conceived  and  rendered  with  much 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


220 


fancy,  yet  the  music  suffers  from  a want  of  form  through 
the  frequent  change  of  the  tempi  and  measure.  The  repe- 
tition of  single  words  which  of  themselves  express  no  meaning 
is  very  much  to  be  reprehended,  and  sometimes  sounds  truly 
comical.  The  four  handed  piano-forte-accompaniment  is  so 
rich  in  ornamentation,  passages  and  modulations,  that  with 
very  little  modification  it  would  not  require  to  be  rewritten 
for  the  orchestra.  Andr&s  chorus  was  not  distinguished  by 
any  thing  remarkable.  At  the  conclusion,  Herr  Hasemann 
of  the  Frankfurt  orchestra,  who  as  violincellist  accompanied 
me  in  my  Quartett  in  the  morning  njuch  better  than  any  of 
the  others,  astonished  us  with  his  skill  on  the  bass-sackbut! 
He  played  variations  on  the  well  known  song:  “Mich  fliehen 
alle  Freuden”  (All  pleasures  depart  from  me).  But  it  makes 
an  unpleasant  impression  upon  a hearer  of  taste,  when  an 
instrument  is  constrained  to  produce  what  is  neither  natural 
to,  nor  consistant  with  its  character. 

Darmstadt , 9.  Febr. 

Constrained  to  nearly  a month’s  stay  by  the  illness  of 
my  good  Dorette , I have  had  ample  time  to  inform  myself 
on  the  state  of  music  here.  Little  satisfactory  can  be  said 
of  it.  The  Grand-Duke  is  certainly  very  fond  of  music,  and 
spends  considerable  sums  of  money  upon  it;  but  this  love  of 
it  is  one  sided,  egotistical,  and  is  limited  solely  to  Theatrical 
music.  He  takes  a pleasure  for  instance  in  enacting  the 
Director  of  music,  and  Manager,  in  the  Opera-rehearsals;  he 
therefore  not  only  directs  the  orchestra  from  a desk  in  the 
theatre,  but  directs  also  every  thing  upon  the  stage.  As  he 
considers  himself  incapable  of  error  in  both  capacities,  nor 
will  allow  either  the  director  of  the  orchestra , or  the  stage 
manager  to  gainsay  his  regulations  in  the  least,  as  a matter 
of  course  many  mistakes  occur.  For,  although  of  all  Grand- 
Dukes  he  may  be  the  best  director  of  an  opera,  that  does 
not  make  him  a good  one!  He  clearly  proves  this  in  his  se* 
lection  of  the  works  which  he  allows  to  be  performed  in  his 
theatre.  As  he  has  so  liberally  endowed  the  theatre  that  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


221  — 


management  has  no  need  to  study  the  taste  of  the  public  for 
the  sake  of  the  receipts,  they  might  therefore  procure  a Re- 
pertoire of  really  good  and  meritorious  works,  if  he  would 
only  allow  them  the  choice.  But  this  he  reserves  to  himself* 
and  therefore  not  only  much  of  what  is  given  is  of  mediocrity 
merely,  but  many  excellent  works  are  wholly  excluded,  such 
as  the  operas  of  Cherubini,  because  the  Grand-Duke  cannot 
bear  them.  He  may  by  chance  let  “Den  Wassertrager,”  (the 
Watercarrier)  pass,  but  only  the  first  act  of  it.  Neither  do 
the  operas  of  Mozart  seem  to  please  him  any  better;  for  when 
a few  days  ago  the  turn  came  again  for  “Don  Juan”,  after 
nothing  else  had  been  given  for  thirty  consecutive  nights  but 
Poissl’s  “Athalia”,  and  that  the  orchestra  relieved  from  the 
distressing  wearisomeness  with  which  that  opera  had  over- 
come them,  executed  the  first  finale  with  great  spirit,  the 
Grand-Duke  turning  to  the  director  of  the  orchestra,  said: 
“After  PoissVs  opera  there’s  no  relishing  “Don  Juan!” 

Considering  the  large  salaries  paid  by  the  Grand -Duke, 
the  personnel  of  solo-singers  might  be  a much  better  one,  with 
a few  exceptions,  than  it  really  is;  but  it  is  maintained,  that 
he  only  wishes  for  middling  talents,  so  that  they  may  yield 
more  willingly  to  his  regulations.  The  chorus  (thirty  females 
and  thirty  men)  is  very  excellent.  The  orchestra  is  also  very 
numerous,  and  comprises  several  very  good  artists  among  its 
members;  but  there  is  also  a good  deal  of  ordinary  talent 
among  them.  The  Grand  - Duke  may  claim , some  credit  for 
their  ensemble,  and  particularly  in  the  pianissimo;  but  as 
regards  pure  intonation,  and  clearness  of  expression,  there 
is  yet  much  to  be  desired.  No  orchestra  in  the  world  is  so 
harrassed  as  this  is;  for  the  whole  of  the  members  without 
exception,  must  attend  every  blessed  evening  in  the  theatre, 
from  6 to  9 or  10  o’clock.  Every  Sunday,  there  is  opera; 
on  two  other  days  in  each  week  a play  ; and  on  the  four 
remaining  days  the  Grand -Duke  has  his  opera -rehearsals. 
These  never  fail  unless  he  is  prevented  by  illness.  Then  no 
operas  are  given.  A short  time  ago  he  was  obliged  to  keep 


Digitized  by 


Google 


222 


his  room  for  several  weeks  with  a bad  leg;  during  this  time 
no  rehearsal. dare  be  held,  nor  any  opera  performed.  He 
seemed  to  beleive,  or  wished  others  to  beleive  that  without 
him,  nothing  could  be  studied. 

It  is  a singular  sight,  to  see  the  old  gentleman  already 
grown  quite  crooked,  seated  at  the  desk  in  uniform  with  his 
star  on  his  breast,  giving  the  time;  ordering  the  chorus  and 
the  “statists”  to  recollect  this  thing  or  the  other,  or  calling 
out  piano  or  forte  to  the  orchestra.  If  he  but  understood 
all  this,  there  would  be  no  better  director  of  an  opera;  for 
he  has  not  only  great  zeal  and  perseverance,  but  from  his 
station  also,  as  Grand-Duke,  the  necessary  authority.  But 
his  knowledge  of  scores  extends  no  farther  than  at  most  to 
enable  him  to  read  after  the  violin-voice,  and  as  he  once 
played  the  violin  when  a young  man,  he  continually  harraases 
the  poor  violinists  with  his  reminiscenses , without  making 
things  any  better!  On  the  other  hand,  the  singers  may  sing 
as  false  or  with  as  little  taste  as  they  choose,  or  the  wind- 
instruments  may  be  one  beat  before  or  behind,  — and  he 
does  not  observe  it! 

It  is  just  the  same  with  his  arrangements  on  the  stage  > 
but  there  the  manager  can  yet  come  in  unobserved  to  the 
rescue,  while  the  director  of  the  orchestra  is  not  permitted 
the  slighest  reproval  of  any  error  that  may  occur.  That  the 
operas,  therefore,  despite  the  numerous  rehearsals  should  come 
off  badly,  and  invariably  worse  the  more  rehearsals  that  have 
been  held,  is  sufficiently  accounted  for  above,  so  that  in  the 
end  both  singers  and  orchestra  become  incapable  of  more  at- 
tention from  sheer  exhaustion  and  disgust.  This  was  the 
case  with  the  opera  “Athalie”  of  Poissl,  which  during  our 
stay  was  rehearsed  every  evening  when  no  performance  took 
place,  and  in  which  on  its  representation  at  last,  after  thirty 
stage-rehearsals,  faults  still  occured,  both  on  the  stage  and  in 
the  orchestra.  Of  the  music  of  this  opera  but  little  can  be 
•aid  in  praise.  It  is  too  common-place,  and  the  same  kind 
of  thing  too  frequently  heard  before.  Several  of  the  musical 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


223 


pieces  are  imitations  of  the  most  admired  pieces  of  Mozart 
and  Cherubini , yet  without  producing  any  other  effect  than 
recalling  them  to  mind:  so  for  instance , the  procession  of 
Priests,  with  its  single  strokes  of  the  kettle-drum,  is  exactly 
like  that  in  the  “Zauberflote  (the  ^lagic  Flute)  during  the 
•‘fire  and  water  ordeal.”  In  the  same  manner  also,  the  con- 
cluding Allegro  of  the  first  act,  which  contains  striking  remi- 
niscences from  the  finale  of  ‘Don  Juan,”  and  so  forth.  The 
first  act  is  besides  extremely  tedious,  from  the  circumstance 
that  so  many  slow  tempi  and  prayers  succeed  each  other  so 
closely,  so  that  in  point  of  fact,  the  opera  has  neither  life  nor 
action. 

The  Grand-Duke,  who  considers  the  music  of  this  opera 
very  fine,  perhaps  merely,  because  it  was  written  by  a Baron, 
had  the  vexation  to  find  that  the  public  considered  it  very 
wearisome,  which  was  even  loudly  expressed  close  to  the  box 
of  the  Grand -duke.  This  so  much  enraged  him,  that  he 
said  in  a loud  voice : “All  those  who  do  not  comprehend  this 
splendid  opera  should  have  the  doors  of  the  theatre  closed 
against  them!”  If  what  people  say  here,  is  true,  that  he 
compels  the  servants  of  his  Court  and  officers,  to  frequent  the 
theatre,  by  deducting  without  any  ceremony  the  amount  of 
the  subscription  for  the  entree  to  the  theatre  from  their  sala- 
ries, he  might  readily  carry  out  his  threat  by  releasing  them 
from  this  soccage! 

As  the  Grand-Duke  refused  to  us  the  assistance  of  the 
orchestra  for  a public  concert,  because  as  he  expressed  in 
his  reply  to  my  request,  he  could  not  spare  it  from  the 
theatre  on  any  evening,  we  were  on  the  point  of  leaving  with- 
-out  having  played  in  Darmstadt,  when  the  directors  of  the 
Cassino  proposed  to  us  to  appear  in  their  locale , for  which 
they  offered  us  a sum  of  twenty  carolins.  * This  offer  we 
accepted.  I played  with  Dorette  a sonata,  and  two  concert- 
pieces  with  pianoforte  accompaniment;  and  Dorette  concluded 

* One  Garolin  = 20  •,  4 d English. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


224 


with  the  Fantasia  in  C-Minor.  We  met  with  a very  sympa- 
thising audience.  The  violinists  of  the  orchestra,  who  much 
desired  to  hear  me,  and  Herr  Backhofen  the  former  instructor 
of  my  wife  who  would  have  been  greatly  interested  in  her 
present  artistic  skill,  wgre  however,  not  permitted  to  be  of 
the  auditory;  for  the  Grand-Duke  had  said  on  the  previous 
evening  in  the  theatre:  “Let  me  find  nobody  absent  himself 
to-morrow  evening  1” 

Heidelberg , February,  11. 

Notwithstanding  the  extreme  cold  that  set  in  last  night, 
we  this  afternoon  climbed  the  castle-hill,  to  behold  once 
more  the  magnificent  ruins  of  the  castle.  I was  pleased  to 
find  that  since  the  last  eight  years  it  has  not  been  allowed 
to  fall  into  further  decay,  and  that  much  more  care  is  taken 
to  preserve  the  ruins  in  their  present  condition.  The  view 
over  the  town  towards  Mannheim,  and  into  the  valley  of  the 
Neckar,  is  even  in  winter,  beautiful  in  the  extreme  I 

Carlsruhe,  February,  26. 

Our  stay  here  was  made  very  agreable,  from  our  meeting 
with  old  acquaintances.  It  afforded  us  also  some  art-enjoy- 
ments. It  is  true  we  did  not  hear  any  good  orchestral-music; 
for  the  orchestra  here , although  latterly  several  distinguished 
artists  have  been  engaged,  is  still  very  middling.  A few  good 
members  cannot  cloak  the  weak  points  of  the  rest.  On  the  other 
hand,  we  heard  two  good  female  singers,  Demoiselle  Bahren - 
fels  and  Madame  Gervais . On  the  21.,  when  we  played  in 
the  private  apartments  of  the  Grand-Dutchess , the  former 
sang  an  aria;  and  a few  days  before,  the  soprano-soli  in  Rom* 
berg's  “Glocke”  (the  “Bell”)  which  was  right  well  performed  by 
a society  of  dilettanti  in  the  museum.  Demoiselle  Bahrenfels . 
has  a fine  voice,  good  taste  and  great  ease  of  execution,  but 
overloads  her  singing  too  much  with  ornamentation.  Madame 
Gervais , who  is  also  a distinguished  actress,  I heard  in  WeigVs 
pretty  opera : “Adrian  van  Ostade”  in  which  she  sang  a Cava- 
tina in  a very  brilliant  manner.  We  then  heard  her  sing  in 
our  concert  on  the  24.  the  grand  scena  from  “Faust”  with 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


225 


universal  applause.  She  has  also  a fine  voice,  is  of  a good 
school,  has  feeling,  and  great  execution,  but  embellishes  also 
too  much  at  the  wrong  place,  and  now  and  then  sings  out 
of  tune  .... 

I frequently  played  my  Quartetts  and  Quintetts;  twice 
at  Herr  von  Eichthal's  and  once  at  Messrs.  Freidorf’s  and 
Brandt's.  I was  excellently  accompanied  in  them  by  Messrs. 
Fesca , Viola , Bonlein , and  von  Dusch.  Fesca  played  also  a 
new  Quintett  of  his  composition,  which  had  many  new  and 
beautiful  points  in  it.  In  the  last  passage  there  was  never- 
theless something  far-fetched. 

Strasburg,  March,  6. 

I must  first  speak  of  that  which  strikes  the  eye  of  the 
traveller  even  before  he  has  crossed  the  Rhine,  — I mean 
the  Cathedral!  Far  beyond  Kehl  we  saw  its  colossal  and 
yet  graceful  form  towering  high  into  the  air.  It  has  been  so 
often  and  so  well  described  (and  poetically  also  in  Baggesen’s 
travels)  that  I shall  not  attempt  it.  But  I must  say,  that 
nothing  I had  ever  seen  before,  awakened  in  me  so  much 
the  sentiment  of  the  sublime,  and  the  holy,  as  that  wonderful 
structure!  What  stateliness  of  form,  what  elegance,  what 
richness  of  decoration , and  what  imposing  grandeur  are  here 
united!  All  that  the  Iconaclausts  damaged  during  the  time 
of  the  revolution  has  again  been  restored,  and  the  new 
statues  that  have  been  placed  in  the  room  of  those  which 
were  destroyed  have  more  artistic  merit  than  such  of  the 
old  ones  as  were  then  spared.  The  building  is  very  care- 
fully kept  in  repair  throughout,  and  20,000  francs  annually 
are  set  apart  for  the  external  repairs  alone.  Such  care  is 
nevertheless  doubly  necessary  with  this  structure,  on  account 
of  its  delicacy  of  ornamentation,  as  the  slightest  damage  would 
readily  entail  a greater  and  more  dangerous  one;  for  the 
gigantic  tower  has  no  foundation  wall  running  round  its  base 
but  is  built  upon  piles,  between  which  deep  in  the  ground 
below  flows  a navigable  canal.  Half  way  up,  where  the 
structure  seperates  into  two  halves,  one  of  which  unfortuna- 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  L 15 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


226 


tely,  is  finished  only,  every  part  throughout  is  so,  aerial, 
so  elegant,  and  permits  the  eye  to  see  through  it  so  comple- 
tely, that  here,  where  when  one  pillar  is  the  support  of  the 
other,  the  least  damage,  if  not  immediately  re-established, 
might  readily  entail  the  falling  in  of  the  whole  tower. 

After  we  had  sufficiently  satisfied  our  feeling  of  admiration 
of  the  bold,  gigantic  structure ; the  telegraph  which  extends  its 
arms  upon  the  roof  of  the  Cathedral  attracted  our  attention. 
At  that  moment  the  telegraph  was  being  worked,  and  we 
were  greatly  amused  with  the  ease  and  rapidity  of  its  move- 
ments. As  we  were  desirous  to  understand  the  mechanism, 
we  ascended  to  it,  but  only  reached  it  just  as  it  had  ceased, 
and  we  alone  saw  the  Despatch  about  to  be  transmitted,  in 
the  curious  characters  still  standing  wet  upon  the  paper.  I 
was  desirous  to  know  whether  these  characters  of  which  there 
might  be  about  twenty  four  at  the  utmost,  represented  the 
letters  of  the  alphabet,  or  separate  words,  or  whole  sentences, 
and  I put  a few  questions  to  the  telegraphist  upon  the  sub- 
ject. He,  however,  gave  me  but  little  information,  either 
because  he  durst  not,  or  did  not  know  himself,  which  is  the 
most  probable,  as  the  director  alone  is  allowed  to  possess 
the  key  to  the  characters.  According  to  him,  each  sign  or 
character  expresses  a word.  But  this  is  very  improbable,  as 
it  would  be  impossible  to  communicate  with  sufficient  clear- 
ness with  four  and  twenty  words , even  supposing  the  inter- 
vening missing  words  might  be  for  the  most  part  guessed  at. 
On  the  other  hand,  that  the  meaning  of  one  or  more  of  the 
signs  must  have  been  known  to  him,  was  evident  from  the 
circumstance,  that  in  order  to  shew  us  the  mechanism,  he 
gave  the  signe  d' attention,  by  which  was  asked,  whether  in 
the  course  of  the  day  another  Despatch  was  to  be  expected, 
and  if  each  telegraphist  was  to  remain  at  his  post.  This 
sign  was  immediately  taken  up  by  the  next  telegraph,  as  we 
could  see  through  the  telescope  affixed  to  the  wall,  and  then 
also  by  the  next  one,  although  it  could  be  seen  less  distinctly. 
After  a lapse  of  7 or  8 minutes  the  reply  came  back  from 


Digitized  by  Google 


227 


Paris : “Every  body  must  remain  at  his  post.”  This  sign  was 
immediately  taken  up  also  by  our  telegraph,  and  then  all  were 
again  at  rest.  The  mechanism  is  very  simple.  Three  large 
wheels  in  the  telegrapher’s  room,  over  which  run  cords  of 
twisted  copperwire  set  the  three  limbs  of  the  telegraph  in  mo- 
tion. Smaller  wheels,  affixed  to  the  larger  ones  set  in  motion 
a smaller  telegraph  in  the  interior  of  the  room,  by  which  the 
mechanist  sees  whether  the  signs  have  been  correctly  made 
above,  on  the  roof.  A third  moderately  sized  telegraph  out- 
side of  the  room,  directed  towards  the  residence  of  the  director, 
serves  to  impart  to  him  the  signs  coming  from  Paris.  The 
whole  contrivance  is  very  ingenious  and  does  credit  to  man’s 
creative  mind.  The  telegraphists  have  a very  onerous  duty. 
From  the  first  dawn  of  day-light  to  night  fall,  they  must  be 
at  their  posts.  The  slighest  negligence  is  immediately  punished 
with  dismissal  from  the  service. 

In  Strasburg  I made  the  acquaintance  of  three  distin- 
guished artistes  and  of  several  passionate  lovers  of  music. 
The  former  were:  Herr  Spindler , director  of  the  Cathedral 
Orchestra,  the  successor  of  Pleyel , who  previously  held  that 
appointment,  Herr  Berg,  pianiste  and  composer,  and  Herr 
Kuttner  also  a pianiste  and  a singer.  Of  Spindler' s Ecclesiast- 
ical-compositions a Requiem  is  very  much  praised;  of  his 
dramatic  works  an  Opera:  “The  Orphan  Asylum.”  Spindler 
sent  the  score  and  the  libretto  of  this  opera,  which  was  also 
his  property  to  the  directors  of  the  Vienna  Court- theatre.  It 
was  not  accepted  and  returned  under  the  pretence , that  the 
song- parts  would  not  suit  the  operatic -personnel  there.  But 
a copy  was  thievishly  taken  of  the  libretto,  and  Weigl  then 
composed  music  for  it  also.  As  shortly  before,  his  “Schweizer- 
familie”  had  been  very  successful,  this  new  work  soon  became 
popular  at  all  the  theatres  in  Germany,  while  Spindler's  com- 
position up  to  the  present  time  has  only  been  heard  in  Stras- 
burg. For  this  dishonest  transaction  he  nevertheless  obtained 
some  slight  satisfaction,  for  when  WeigVs  composition  was  given 
here  last  year  by  a German  operatic -company,  it  pleased 

15* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


228 


infinitely  less  than  his.  Spindler  is  a well  educated  and  extre- 
mely modest  artiste.  Among  the  ardent  lovers  of  music  the 
Advocate  Lobstein  ranks  first.  He  is  Director  of  -a  well  as- 
sorted Amateur -Concert -society;  the  numerous  Orchestra  of 
which  consists  for  the  most  part  of  dilettanti,  and  they  do 
not  give  badly  such  compositions,  as  are  not  too  difficult  and 
which  they  have  sufficiently  rehearsed.  As  in  France  since  the 
Revolution  a law  is  still  enforced,  which  requires  that  every 
person  who  gives  a Concert,  if  he  publicly  announces  it  by 
bills,  and  takes  money,  shall  pay  over  one  fifth  of  the  receipts 
to  the  Directors  of  the  Theatre  of  the  town ; Herr  Lobstein 
made  the  proposal  to  me  to  give  a Concert  in  the  same  place 
and  on  the  same  day  as  the  Amateur-Concert-Society,  by  which 
means  I avoided  the  impost.  The  Concert  was  announced  pri- 
vately only,  but  was  nevertheless  so  well  attended  that  above 
one  hundred  persons  were  unable  to  find  further  room  in  the 
by  no  means  small  saloon.  This  as  well  as  the  enthusiastic 
reception  that  our  play  met  with,  induced  me  to  give  a se- 
cond and  a public  Concert  after  having  come  to  an  under- 
standing with  the  manager  of  the  theatre  to  pay  over  a fixed 
impost  of  eighty  francs  ; but  it  was  not  so  numerously  at- 
tended as  the  first,  probably  owing  to  the  price  of  admission 
being  raised  to  three  francs.  The  Orchestra  was  the  same  in 
both,  half  composed  of  dilettanti  and  half  of  skilled  musicians; 
the  string  - instruments  tolerably  good , the  wind  - instruments 
for  the  most  part  bad,  As  the  latter  have  a good  deal  to 
do  in  my  compositions,  they  therefore  got  sadly  mishandled. 
My  Quartetts  nnd  Quintetts  which  I frequently  played  at  pri- 
vate parties,  were  on  the  other  hand  very  well  accompanied. 
Upon  these  occasions  Messrs.  Biumann  (first  Violincellist  of 
the  theatrical  Orchestra)  and  Nani  (Violinist)  especially  distin- 
guished themselves.  Although  the  Strasburghers  are  much  be- 
hind the  inhabitants  of  the  larger  towns  of  Germany  in  the 
cultivation  of  music,  and  know  little  or  nothing  of  our  newest 
music  and  its  spirit,  they  yet  appear  to  relish  well  my  com- 
positions. My  stay  here  therefore  served  to  make  my  compo- 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


229 


sitions  in  demand , few  of  which  only  were  known  here , and 
they  were  now  frequently  written  for  to  the  music  sellers. 

While  we  were  in  Strasburg  Messrs.  Berg  and  Kuttner 
gave  together  a public  Concert,  in  which  both  shewed  them- 
selves good  pianistes,  and  Herr  Berg  a talented  composer. 
He  gave  on  Overture,  a Pianoforte  Concerto  and  variations 
for  two  Piano’s.  The  allegro  of  the  overture  pleased  me  es- 
pecially, an  account  of  its  natural  flow  and  the  manner  in 
which  the  theme  is  carried  out.  But  Herr  Berg  is  not  free 
from  the  complaint  common  to  all  modern  composers,  who 
are  always  striving  after  effects,  and  in  so  doing  miss  the 
carrying  out  of  their  ideas. 

• We  went  a few  times  to  the  theatre,  and  with  the  excep- 
tion of  the  Prima  Donna  Madame  Dufay , found  the  Opera  very 
bad,  but  the  Comedy  and  Vaudeville  excellent.  I became 
again  convinced,  how  greatly  the  French  excel  the  Germans 
in  the  two  last  kinds  of  entertainment.  The  company  here, 
which  is  generally  considered  but  very  middling,  perform  ne- 
vertheless their  Comedies  with  roundness,  and  life  like  truth, 
such  as  is  seldom  seen  on  the  stage  of  the  best  theatres  in 
Germany. 

Miinster,  near  Colmar , March,  26. 

For  the  last  fortnight  nearly  we  are  here  in  a small  ma- 
nufacturing town  in  the  Vosges  mountains,  on  a visit  to  a 
wealthy  manufacturer  Jacques  Hartmann . Our  host,  who  is  an 
ardent  lover  of  music,  was  informed  by  Herr  Kapellmeister 
Brandt  of  Carlsruhe,  that  we  should  pass  through  Colmar  on 
our  journey.  He  had  ascertained  from  Strasburg  the  day 
on  which  we  should  pass  through;  he  therefore  way  laid  us 
and  with  friendly  force  compelled  us  to  follow  him  to  his 
house  at  Munster.  Arrived  there  at  nightfall,  we  were  wel- 
comed by  his  family  in  the  most  hearty  manner,  and  conducted 
immediately  through  the  garden  to  a brilliantly  lighted  Con- 
cert-Room, which  was  decorated  all  round  with  the  names  of 
our  great  Composers,  among  which  probably  from  to-day  mine 
also  has  found  a humble  place.  The  Orchestra  of  Herr  Hart- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


230 


mann  was  already  in  their  places  and  received  us  upon  our 
entry  with  a by  no  means  ill  executed  Overture.  The  Or- 
chestra consists  of  Herr  Hartmann's  family  , and  in  part  of 
some  of  the  employes,  musicians  and  workmen  employed  in 
his  Cotton-manufactury.  As  he  as  much  as  possible  engages 
those  only  who  are  musical,  he  has  succeeded  in  getting  to- 
gether an  almost  completely  appointed  Orchestra,  which  ex- 
ecutes in  a very  decent  manner  compositions  that  are  not  too 
difficult  and  which  it  has  diligently  practised.  * Herr  Hart - 
mann  himself  is  a virtuoso  on  the  bassoon  and  has  a fine 
tone  and  much  skill.  His  sister  and  his  daughter  play  the 
pianoforte.  The  latter  a child,  eight  years  of  age  is  the  star 
of  this  Dilettanti  orchestra.  She  already  plays  very  diffi&ilt 
compositions  with  wonderful  facility  and  precision.  But  more 
than  this,  her  fine  musical  ear  surprised  me,  with  which  (though 
at  a distance  from  the  Piano)  she  distinguishes  the  intervals 
of  the  most  complicated  discordant  accords  that  can  be  struck 
for  her,  and  will  name  consecutively  the  tones  of  which  they 
consist.  Of  this  child  for  a certainty  if  properly  guided  will 
one  day  be  made  a distinguished  artiste,  f After  the  family 

* From  the  leader  of  the  Orchestra  an  employe  in  the  manufactory, 
I than  made  the  acquisition  of  a Violin  by  Lupot  of  Paris.  I was  so 
much  struck  with  the  full  and  powerful  tone  of  this  Instrument,  which 
was  then  only  thirty  years  old,  that  I immediately  proposed  an  ex- 
change for  an  Italian  Violin,  which  I had  purchased  in  Brunswick,  and 
played  upon  in  my  first  journey;  the  possessor  of  the  Lupot  willingly  ac- 
ceded to  my  desire.  I soon  got  so  fond  of  this  Violin,  that  I preferred 
it  to  my  hitherto  Concert- Violin,  an  old  german  by  Buchstetter.  and  from 
this  time  I played  on  it  in  all  my  travels. 

It  was  not  till  the  year  1822,  when  my  artistic  tours  as  Violinist 
had  ceased,  that  I bought  of  Madame  Schlick  in  Gotha  my  present  instru- 
ment, a Stradivari , and  yielded  to  Concert-master  Matthaei  of  Leipsic  at 
his  urgent  entreaty  this  Violin  of  Lupot , which  in  the  course  of  years 
had  become  very  good  and  had  acquired  a great  reputation.  Matthaei 
played  on  it  till  his  death,  when  it  came  into  the  possession  of  Concert- 
master  Ulrich. 

t Unhappily  she  died  young  and  before  her  full  development. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


231 


had  exhibited  their  capabilities,  we  let  them  hear  one  of  our 
Duetts  and  found  a very  grateful  and  enthusiastic  auditory. 

Herr  Hartmann  does  not  readily  permit  a Musician  of 
note  to  pass  through  Alsace  without  calling  on  him  and  there- 
fore has  already  seen  many  of  them  under  his  roof;  among 
others,  lindolpho , Kreutzer,  Durand , Turner , Bdrmann  and 
the  brothers  SchunJee.  And  for  a certainty  all  must  have 
been  as  satisfied  with  their  stay  in  his  house  as  we  were;  for 
a more  agreable  host,  and  one  more  desirous  to  please  than 
Herr  Hartmann  could  not  readily  be  found.  Of  the  two  first 
mentioned  artistes  he  related  the  following,  which  is  sufficiently 
characteristic.  Kreutzer  gave  a Concert  at  the  theatre  in 
Strasburg,  which  was  very  fully  attended.  After  the  first 
part,  he  went  and  took  the  receipts,  and  lost  them  at  Rou- 
lette in  the  refreshment  room  to  the  last  sous.  He  was  now 
called  for  the  second  part  of  the  Concert,  and  was  obliged  to 
earn  wherewith  to  supply  what  he  had  already  lost.  Durand 
did  still  worse!  Herr  Hartmann  had  got  up  a Concert  for 
him  at  Miihlhausen  and  accompanied  him  thither.  Durand 
immediately  forgot  himself  in  a beerhouse,  and  it  was  a dif- 
ficult matter  to  get  him  away  from  it  to  hold  the  rehearsal. 
At  this  he  missed  his  bow,  which  he  had  forgotten  at  Colmar. 
He  declared  that  he  must  fetch  it,  otherwise  he  would  not 
be  able  to  play  in  the  evening.  Herr  Hartmann  gave  him  his 
carriage  and  urged  him  to  return  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
hour  of  the  Concert  was  fast  approaching,  but  Durand  had 
not  yet  come  back.  The  public  had  assembled,  the  Musicians 
were  tuning  up,  — but  the  Concert-giver  was  still  wanting! 
After  waiting  for  half  an  hour,  as  the  auditory  had  become 
very  restless,  Herr  Hartmann  had  the  Overture  played.  But 
as  Durand  had  not  yet  made  his  appearance,  he  was  obliged 
to  come  forward  and  explain  the  absence  of  the  Concert-giver. 
Exceedingly  displeased  at  this,  the  public  left  the  Concert- 
room.  Late  in  the  evening  the  coachman  returned  without 
the  vainly  expected  musician,  and  informed  his  master  that 
he  had  sought  for  him  for  several  hours  in  all  the  Coffee- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


232 


houses  and  taverns  at  Colmar  but  in  vain,  and  that  at  length 
he  had  found  him  in  a beerhouse  where  in  company  with  other 
jovial  guests  he  had  totally  forgotten  the  concert. 

Three  days  ago,  we  gave  a Concert  in  Colmar  which  was 
very  fully  attended,  and  which  Herr  Hartmann  had  previously 
solicited  his  there  resident  musical  friends  to  make  arrange- 
ments for.  As  the  Orchestra  which  was  almost  wholly  com- 
posed of  dilettanti  was  very  had ; I was  compelled  to  renounce 
playing  any  of  my  own  compositions  and  chose  some  of  ea- 
sier accompaniment  by  Bode  and  Kreutzer.  After  the  Sonata 
which  I played  with  my  wife,  a crown  of  laurel  was  thrown 
to  us  from  a box  to  which  was  attached  the  following  poem : 

Couple  savant  dans  Part  heureux 
Qui  fit  placer  au  rang  des  Dieux 
L’antique  Chantre  de  la  Grece. 

D’un  instrument  melodieux, 

Et  de  la  harpe  enchanteresse 
Quand  les  accords  delicieux. 

Nous  causent  une  double  ivresse, 

Faut-il,  que  les  tristes  apprets 
D’un  depart  qui  nous  desespere, 

Melent  d’inutiles  regrets 

Aux  charmes  que  votre  Art  opere! 

Ah!  pres  de  nous  ii  faut  rester! 

Quelle  raison  pour  s’en  defendre? 

A nos  voeux,  si  Spohr  veut  se  rendre, 

II  pourra,  j’ose  l’attester, 

Se  lasser  de  nous  enchanter, 

Jamais  nous  lasser  de  Pentendre. 

Par  E.  C.  ( outer  et),  habitant  de  Colmar. 

In  the  second  part  of  the  Concert  Herr  Hartmann  played 
also  some  variations  for  the  bassoon  by  Brandt . He  seemed 
very  nervous,  but  played  nevertheless  right  well.  The  receipts 
were  very  considerable  for  so  small  a town.  The  day  after 
the  Concert  we  dined  at  General  Frimmt's , Commander  of 
the  Austrian  troops  in  Alsace.  We  found  our  host  an  extre- 
mely amiable  and  jovial  man.  By  his  love  of  justice,  his  strict 
discipline  and  agreable  manners,  he  has  acquired  in  a high 


Digitized  by 


Google 


233 


degree  the  esteem  of  the  inhabitants  of  Colmar.  — In  the 
evening  we  returned  here. 

Yesterday  I received  information  from  the  Director  of 
music  Tollmann,  in  Basel,  to  whom  Herr  Hartmann  had  pre- 
viously announced  our  arrival,  that  he  had  made  arrangements 
for  a Concert  for  us  on  next  Sunday  the  31.  We  must  there- 
fore take  leave  of  our  kind  host  and  his  family.  But  we  have 
been  obliged  to  promise  to  come  once  again  if  possible  during 
the  summer. 

Herr  Hartmann  conducted  us  several  times  over  the  Cot- 
ton factory.  It  is  very  extensive  and  produces  goods  which 
in  respect  of  taste  in  the  designs  greatly  excel  the  English. 
It  gives  employment  to  upwards  of  one  thousand  persons, 
and  among  these  to  artists  of  great  talent  as  Draughtsmen 
and  Engravers  on  copper.  Cotton  prints  of  all  kinds  are 
made,  common  ones  by  hand -press,  the  finer  sorts  by  Roll- 
press,  with  furniture  prints  as  well  as  carpets  ornamented  with 
large  and  small  designs.  The  latter  are  chiefly  made  for  the 
East  Indian  and  China  markets.  On  the  copper -plates  for 
these  kinds,  artists  often  work  for  several  years  together.  The 
designs  are  for  the  most  part  copies  of  celebrated  pictures. 
The  mechanism  by  which  the  copper- plates  are  printed  off 
upon  stuffs  is  a secret  in  the  possesion  of  the  Hartmann-ma, - 
nufactory,  which  is  not  shewn  to  strangers.  We  were  made 
an  exception  to  the  rule.  An  ingenious  machine  for  rubbing 
colours  was  also  invented  here,  and  is  as  yet  the  only  one 
of  the  kind.  Alsace  which  is  so  rich  in  manufactories,  is  very 
discontented  with  the  new  government,  which  does  nothing  for 
the  encouragement  of  industry  as  did  the  exiled  Emperor,  to 
whom  the  people  are  devotedly  attached.  This  may  be  rea- 
dily imagined  when  we  consider,  that  in  the  palmy  days  of 
the  Empire,  the  manufactories  in  this  part  were  in  an  extre- 
mely flourishing  condition,  which  arose  in  a great  measure 
from  the  exclusion  of  English  manufactures  from  the  Continent 
by  the  celebrated  Berlin  decrees.  But  now  again  when  the 
whole  of  Europe  is  inundated  with  English  goods,  the  facto - 


Digitized  by 


Google 


234 


ries  here  are  obliged  to  restrict  their  labours  considerably. 
People  express  here  without  reserve  their  discontent  with  the 
present  government,  and  say  quite  openly,  that  the  favourable 
opportunity  is  only  waited  for  to  shake  off  the  present  yoke 
once  more.  It  is  true,  also,  that  many  things  that  tended 
greatly  to  the  public  good,  such  as  canal  and  road  making, 
the  distribution  of  prizes  for  encouragement  of  Industry.  Art- 
institutions  etc.  such  for  example  as  the  Conservatory  of  Mu- 
sic in  Paris,  have  been  in  part  suppressed  or  greatly  limited, 
as  hateful  reminiscences  of  the  Revolution  and  of  the  Empire. 
All  this  had  made  much  bad  blood,  and  rendered  the  new 
Government  extremely  hated.  People  will  therefore  be  by  no 
means  displeased,  should  the  report  be  verified,  that  Alsace 
is  to  be  ceded  to  Austria. 


Basel , April,  2. 

Herr  Tollmann,  a good  Violinist  and  Director  and  at  the 
same  time  the  most  obliging  man  and  most  willing  to  render 
a service  I ever  met,  had  already  with  the  assistance  of  the 
Union-society  of  Music  here,  prepared  every  thing  for  our 
concert.  Nothing  remained  to  be  done  but  to  obtain  the  per- 
mission of  the  Head  Burgomaster  to  raise  the  price  of  ad- 
mission to  half  a laub -thaler.  This  was  immediately  granted. 
Herr  Tollmann  introduced  me  to  the  Directors  of  the  society, 
whom  I found  both  agreable  and  well  bred  people.  They  com- 
pletely disproved  in  their  persons  the  report  which  prevails  in 
Alsace,  that  the  Baseler  is  cold  and  uncourteous,  and  usually 
cuts  short  the  visits  of  strangers  at  the  street  door.  1 was 
received  with  politeness  by  all  whom  I visited,  and  even  with 
distinction.  As  the  Orchestra,  with  the  exception  of  four  or 
five  artistes  was  composed  of  Dilettanti  merely,  the  accompa- 
niment of  my  Solo-pieces,  particularly  by  the  wind-instruments 
was  fearful.  How  poor  Tollmann  is  to  be  pitied,  to  be  obliged 
to  hear  such  music  all  the  year  round!  And  yet,  he  says, 
the  Orchestras  in  the  other  towns  of  Switzerland  are  still  worse. 
If  that  is  the  case,  then  indeed  Music  is  in  a more  pitiable 


Digitized  by  Google 


235 


condition  in  Switzerland  than  in  Alsace.  The  good  folks  here 
are  enraptured  still  with  compositions  such  as  in  Germany 
even  in  JPleyeVs  time  were  considered  intolerable.  Mozart , 
Haydn  and  Beethoven  are  scarcely  known  by  name  to  the  ma- 
jority. But  they  are  fond  of  music,  and  the  best  of  all  is, 
they  are  easily  pleased;  for  badly  executed  as  all  the  orche- 
stral passages  were  in  our  Concert  the  people  were  neverthe- 
less content,  and  considered  that  on  this  occasion  the  Orchestra 
had  particularly  distinguished  itself.  Even  a Bravoura  air 
which  was  awfully  tortured  by  a Dilettant,  they  found  deli- 
cious. The  expenses  being  slight,  the  receipts  were  somewhat 
considerable. 

Ziirich , April,  10. 

On  the  road  from  Basel  to  this  place,  like  all  other  tra- 
vellers coming  from  Germany,  we  had  ample  proof  that  though 
one  travels  with  more  comfort  in  Switzerland,  yet  is  as  ex- 
pensive again  as  there.  At  every  inn  here,  even  in  the  smallest 
villages,  one  finds  a complete  and  well  dressed  dinner  or  sup- 
per, but  the  price  all  through  Switzerland  is  half  a Laub- 
thaler  a head.  All  other  necessaries  are  equally  good,  but  also 
very  dear.  The  expense  of  travelling  is  almost  still  worse. 
With  the  exception  of  the  short  distance  from  Basel  to  Zu- 
rich, there  is  no  extra -post  in  all  Switzerland,  and  one  is 
therefore  obliged  to  travel  either  by  the  Diligence  or  with 
hired  horses.  Both  are  very  dear.  The  price  for  a pair  of 
hired  horses  per  day  is  three  laub-thaler,  and  their  days  for 
return  are  also  charged  for. 

There  is  here  also  an  “Union -society  of  Music.”  These 
societies  in  the  Swiss  towns  are  a great  boon  to  the  travelling 
artiste,  for  they  very  willingly  undertake  all  the  arrangements 
for  his  concert.  Ours  took  place  already  on  the  fourth  day 
after  our  arrival.  We  had  nothing  more  to  do  but  to  play. 
The  accompaniment  certainly  was  again  very  bad,  and  I 
suffered  the  more  from  it,  by  allowing  myself  to  be  persuaded 
to  select  a Concert  of  my  own  compositions.  At  the  rehear- 
sal, by  dint  of  innumerable  repetitions  of  the  most  difficult 


Digitized  by  foozle 


236 


parts,  I at  length  succeeded  in  making  them  sound  like  mu- 
sic; but  in  the  evening  the  orchestra  got  so  frightened  that 
it  upset  every  thing  again!  Fortunately,  the  auditory  did  not 
appear  to  notice  anything  of  it,  for  they  evinced  the  greatest 
satisfaction  with  every  thing  they  heard. 

The  receipts  were  yet  greater  than  at  Basel.  There  are 
two  artistes  living  here  wjio  are  also  known  in  Germany.  One 
of  them,  Herr  Nageli , is  the  proprietor  of  a music-shop,  and 
the  composer  of  the  aong  sung  throughout  Germany : uFreut 
euch  des  Lebens”  (Life  let  us  cherish)  he  has  also  since  made  a 
name  for  himself  by  his  Singing  Instructions  on  the  Pestaloz- 
zian  system.  He  may  have  great  merit  as  a Theorist  and 
musical  Composer  but  in  the  pratical  part  of  the  science  of 
music  and  in  the  development  of  taste,  he  does  not  appear  to 
have  effected  much;  for  of  three  of  his  pupils  whom  he  intro- 
duced to  us  as  his  best,  one  sang  an  Aria,  and  the  other  two 
executed  a- Duett  in  our  Concert,  with  a bad  method,  and 
without  taste. 

The  other  artiste  is  Herr  Liste,  who  is  considered  here  a 
first  rate  pianiste  and  Instructor,  he  is  known  by  some  com- 
positions for  the  piano.  He  shewed  me  some  Glees  and  Quar- 
tette for  male  voices,  which  pleased  me  much  for  their  me- 
lody, harmony  and  induction  of  the  voices. 

Zurich  is  most  charmingly  situated.  From  our  room,  at 
the  Inn  “zum  Raben”  (The  Raven)  we  have  a view  over  great 
part  of  the  lake.  The  arrival  and  departure  of  boats  and 
other  craft  give  great  life  to  this  part  of  the  town. 

Bern , April  20. 

With  most  beautiful  weather  we  had  an  extremely  plea- 
sant journey  thither.  From  the  summit  of  a high  hill  about 
a league  from  here,  we  saw  for  the  first  time  since  we  entered 
Switzerland  the  whole  magnificient  chain  of  the  Alps  quite 
distinctly,  and  in  all  its  grandeur.  We  hailed  the  sight  with 
joy!  How  we  long  to  approach  yet  nearer  to  those  moun- 
J tains ! 


Digitized  by 


google 


237 


The  musical  society  of  Bern  undertook  also  with  zeal 
the  preparations  for  our  Concert,  and  relieved  me  of  all  trouble 
in  the  matter.  The  attendance  here  likewise,  was  more  nu- 
merous than  had  ever  before  been  known  at  the  Concert  of 
a foreign  artist.  The  receipts  however,  on  account  of  the  here 
customary  low  price  of  admission,  were  not  so  great  as  at 
Zurich.  The  Orchestra  here  is  if  possible  still  worse  than  in 
Basel  and  Zurich,  and  the  public  with  the  exception  of  very 
few  yet  more  uncultivated.  At  the  head  of  the  Orchestra  is  a 
brother  of  Carl  Maria  von  Weber , who,  as  I am  told,  is  a 
good  theorist.  As  a Violinist  and  Director  he  is  very  weak. 
Among  the  dilettanti  and  members  of  the  Society  of  music 
Professors  Meissner  and  John,  and  the  Burgomaster  Hermann 
are  particularly  distinguished  for  their  cultivated  taste  for  the 
science  of  music.  The  former  is  Director  of  the  society,  and 
a very  good  violinist. 

As  the  season  is  already  too  far  advanced,  to  give  further 
Concerts  in  the  other  towns  of  Switzerland,  we  intend  giving 
up  our  journey  there  for  the  present,  and  at  once  set  ourselves 
down  to  rest  in  some  beautiful  part  of  the  Bernese  Oberland, 
of  which  Dorette  has  such  urgent  need  for  the  full  re-esta- 
blishment of  her  health.  Our  acquaintances  here  recommend 
to  us  a village  in  the  neigbourhood  of  Thun.  Yesterday,  ac- 
companied by  Edward * we  drove  out  there,  and  found  every 
thing  so  much  in  accordance  with  our  wishes,  that  we  resolved 
to  remove  thither  on  the  next  day.  The  name  of  the  village 
is  Thierachern,  and  it  lies  in  one  of  the  most  beautiful  spots 
that  we  had  yet  beheld.  At  the  Inn  we  hired  two  rooms,  for 
which  together  with  a coach  house  for  our  carriage,  and 
breakfast  and  dinner  daily,  we  agreed  to  pay  the  host  two 
Carolines  per  week.  We  are  all  longing  to  settle  in  this  pa- 
radise, and  looking  forward  to  the  enjoyment  of  its  rural  re- 
pose. I think  especially  to  avail  myself  of  it  to  write  some 

* Edward  Henke , previously  adverted  to,  my  mother’s  youngest 
brother,  then  Professor  at  the  University  of  Bern;  and  afterwards  of 
Halle. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


238 


new  Violin  compositions,  with  very  simple  and  easy  accom- 
paniments for  Italy,  as  from  all  accounts  the  Orchestras  there 
are  worse  than  those  of  the  provincial  towns  in  France.  Ed- 
ward has  promised  to  visit  us  frequently,  and  then  join  us  in 
excursions  into  the  beautiful  environs. 

Bern,  the  handsomest  of  all  the  towns  of  Switzerland  that 
we  had  yet  seen,  is  situated  upon  an  eminence  of  moderate 
height  in  the  centre  of  a somewhat  long  and  narrow  valley. 
The  Aar , a rapid , clear  mountain  stream , flows  round  three 
sides  of  it.  The  mountains  which  surround  it  are  not  so  high 
as  to  impede  the  view  of  the  Alps  from  the  town.  From  the 
Platform  in  particular,  a spacious  quadrangular  bulwark  near 
the  principal  church,  planted  with  chesnut  trees  and  furnished 
with  benches,  the  view  is  extensive,  and  charmingly  beautiful. 
On  leaning  over  the  wall  which  surrounds  this  platform  on 
the  south  side,  the  foaming  Aar  is  seen  deep  below  rushing 
between  the  rocks,  above  this  in  the  middleground , smiling 
meadows,  hills  covered  with  woods,  and  villages  thickly  sur- 
rounded with  fruit  trees,  and  in  the  back  ground  the  majestic 
Alpine  chain  with  its  summits  covered  with  eternal  snow ! The 
Bernese  are  not  a little  proud  of  this  spot;  and  the  first  ques- 
tion they  put  to  a stranger  is  usually:  ‘‘Have  you  been  on 
the  platform?” 

The  houses  of  the  town  are  all  of  them  massively  built, 
and  have  open  Arcades  running  the  length  of  the  street,  under 
which  one  is  able  to  traverse  the  whole  town  dry  footed  in 
wet  weather.  Under  these  Arcades  are  the  warehouses  and 
shops  of  the  merchants  and  trades-people. 

Thi  er acker n,  April,  26. 

We  have  been  here  three  days  in  our  beautiful  little  vil- 
lage, and  are  inhaling  in  full  draughts  the  breath  of  the  first 
spring  days  in  this  indiscribablv  charming  place.  We  have 
no  thought  of  work  as  yet,  for  early  every  morning  we  feel 
impelled  to  hasten  out  into  the  fresh  air.  We  have  already 
wandered  a full  mile  in  different  directions  round  our  little  vil- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


239 


lage,  and  always  discovered  new  beauties.  The  situation  of  our 
dwelling  is  beautiful  beyond  conception ; it  stands  upon  a hill 
from  which  one  has  a view  of  the  country  on  every  side.  Our 
rooms  open  upon  along  balcony  which  extends  the  whole  breadth 
of  the  house,  and  is  covered  in  by  the  eaves  of  the  main  roof. 
These  open  galleries,  which  almost  all  the  houses  have,  are 
called  ,,Lauben”.  * From  this  laube,  where  in  the  hitherto 
fine  weather  we  breakfast  every  morning,  we  have  a most  ex- 
tensive view  over  wood  and  meadow,  as  far  as  Thun,  and  its 
ancient  castle;  then  upon  the  right  across  the  lake  as  far  as 
the  chain  of  the  Alps,  with  the  white  peaks  of  the  Jungfrau, 
the  Eiger,  and  Schreckhorn.  Still  farther  again  to  the  right, 
the  eye  rests  upon  green  copse  - covered  hills,  and  villages 
embosomed  amid  orchards,  and  beyond  these  upon  the  fear- 
ful rocky  ridges  of  the  Riesen,  as  far  as  the  Stockhorn.  Al- 
most every  day  these  mountains  present  aspects  different  from 
those  of  the  previous  one.  Sometimes  the  foremost  mountains 
are  covered  with  dense  masses  of  clouds,  and  the  hinder  ones 
appear  majestically  above  them  at  an  altitude,  such  as  one 
can  scarce  believe  possible  for  any  thing  firm  to  exist;  at 
others  the  farmost  mountains  stand  out  clear  and  distinct; 
and  the  highest  peaks  alone  are  shrouded  in  clouds.  But  in 
the  evening,  shortly  after  sun  set,  the  sight  of  these  snow 
covered  mountains  is  quite  entrancing  to  behold.  When 
the  valley  is  wholly  wrapped  in  gloom,  and  the  lights  from 
Thun  are  seen  reflected  upon  the  lake,  the  mountain  peaks 
are  still  resplendent  with  the  most  beautiful  rosy  light,  which 
when  the  darkness  encreases  changes  into  as  beautiful  a blue. 
It  is  a spectacle  from  which  it  is  difficult  to  tear  one’s  self 
away! 

May,  16. 

We  have  now  begun  to  divide  our  time  between  pleasure 
and  work.  In  the  forenoon,  while  I compose,  Dorette  gives 
the  children  instruction  in  arithmetic,  writing,  geography  etc.  : 

* From  Laube , an  arbour,  bower. 


Digitized  by  Google 


240 


in  the  afternoon  I teach  them  the  Piano  and  singing.  Then  away 
we  sally  out  into  the  free  air.  If  the  weather  permits  an 
extended  excursion,  we  take  our  frugal  evening  repast  in  some 
“Kuher’s”  (so  the  shepherds  are  called  here)  and  do  not  re- 
turn till  late  in  the  evening.  Should  the  weather  be  uncer- 
tain, we  go  provided  with  umbrellas,  at  least  as  far  as  Thun, 
to  enquire  after  letters  from  home;  procure  some  amusement 
for  rainy  days  from  the  lending-library,  and  purchase  our 
little  necessaries.  The  daily  exercise  in  the  beautiful  pure 
balmy  air  strengthens  our  bodies,  enlivens  our  spirits  and 
makes  us  joyous  and  happy.  In  such  a disposition  of  mind, 
one  works  easily  and  quickly,  and  several  compositions  lie  al- 
ready completed  before  me,  namely  a Violin  Concerto  in  the 
shape  of  a Vocal-scena  and  a Duett  for  two  violins. 

I must  not  forget  to  mention  a musical  Natural-curiosity 
which  we  remarked  in  our  walks.  There  is  a Cuckoo  here 
which  does  not  sing  its  name  like  ours  in  a terza,  but  adds 
another  ukoo”  between,  and  which  may  be  expressed  as  follows: 


g 

— 

1_| 

— 

= 

— 

/- 

J 

PSZ— 

1 C 

f 

Vn 

r 

lr/..IrnA 

Whether  this  is  a different  kind  from  ours,  I have  not 
been  able  to  ascertain,  but,  that  every  year  in  this  part,  such 
Cuckookoos  are  heard. 

Something  also,  I have  here  remarked,  which  has  still 
more  interested  me  as  a musician.  The  serving  boy  belonging 
to  our  house  and  some  maidens  of  the  neighbourhood  who 
hold  their  Singing -Academy  before  our  window  every  Sunday 
evening,  intonate  in  their  songs  just  like  the  notes  from  a tin 
instrument  when  unassisted  by  the  stopping  of  the  finger,  i,  e, 
the  Terza  somewhat  too  high,  the  Quarta  still  higher  and  the 
little  Septime  considerably  too  low.  From  this  it  is  evident, 
that  this  intonation  is  natural  to  the  human  ear,  if  it  is  not 
accustomed  from  early  youth  to  the  attemperated  system  of 
tones.  'I  hese  nature-singers  would  sound  as  false  to  our  tone- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


241 


scale,  as  we  to  theirs.  But  it  is  nevertheless  specially  remark- 
able, and  almost  disquieting , that  in  order  to  attain  our  pre- 
sent richness  of  harmony , we  have  been  obliged  to  deviate 
from  the  Tone-scale  given  to  us  by  nature.  For  without  our 
attemperated  Tone-system  we  should  be  confined  to  the  nearest 
tones,  and  obliged  to  renounce  the  enharmonical  changes  which 
are  the  haut  gout  of  modern  harmony.  And  yet  by  this  de- 
viation from  nature,  it  seems  to  me  that  music  is  alone  ele- 
vated to  a real  Science,  while  all  other  arts,  must  be  content 
to  copy  Nature,  and  even  when  they  would  idealise,  still  imi- 
tate nature  in  all  individualities.  The  songs  of  these  Nature- 
singers  have  a great  deal  of  originality,  and  when  I have 
learned  to  understand  better  the  dialect  of  these  parts,  which 
has  much  resemblance  to  the  Allemanic,  I will  endeavour  to 
note  down  some  of  them. 

June,  4. 

Yesterday  we  returned  from  the  first  more  distant  ex- 
cursion which  the  fine  weather  tempted  us  to  undertake,  and 
enjoyed  ourselves  exceedingly.  We  went  to  Kandersteg,  a 
small  village  high  up  in  the  mountains,  distant  from  here  bet- 
ween seven  or  eight  leagues.  I had  hired  for  this  purpose 
our  host’s  one  horse  “Rietwageli”  and  drove,  myself.  The  map 
was  again  our  guide.  Our  road  lay  at  first  along  the  right 
bank  of  the  lake  of  Thun  as  far  as  Spiez.  Behind  Gwatt  we 
crossed  the  Kander  over  a wooden  bridge,  which  in  a single 
arch  of  most  ingenious  construction  spans  high  and  boldly  the 
broad  and  rushing  stream.  About  a hundred  years  ago  the 
course  of  the  Kander  was  turned  into  the  lake,  by  which  means 
the  beautiful  valley  from  Glutsch  to  Thierachern  which  lay 
waste  and  uncultivated  every  spring  owing  to  the  inundations, 
was  converted  into  fine  meadows  and  fruitful  fields.  But  this 
must  have  been  a giant-labour,  for  it  was  found  necessary  to 
pierce  a high  mountain  for  the  purpose.  From  the  centre  of 
the  bridge  one  looks  down  from  a dizzy  height  upon  the  foaming 
Kander  in  its  passage  over  the  rocks,  and  at  the  same  time 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  I.  16 


Digitized  by  Google 


242 


upon  the  lowering  banks  on  either  side.  From  Spiez  the  road 
turns  to  the  right  round  the  majestic  Riesen,  and  leads  through 
a fruitful  and  highly  cultivated  valley  to  Frutigen,  a cheerful 
little  place.  Here  a second  valley  opens,  out  of  which  the 
Kander  issues.  In  this  gloomy,  fearful  rocky  vale,  which  is 
frequently  scarce  broad  enough  for  the  bed  of  the  river  and 
the  road,  the  ascent  now  begins.  On  both  sides,  rocks  of 
stupendous  height,  and  which  in  many  places  hang  so  much 
over  the  road  as  to  make  it  quite  dark,  and  fearful  to  behold. 
Added  to  that,  the  roar  of  the  onward  rolling  Kander  over  its 
rocky  bed,  and  the  numerous  waterfalls  which  on  both  sides 
of  the  glen  precipitate  themselves  frequently  from  a height  of 
more  than  a hundred  feet.  As  we  by  degrees  ascended  higher 
with  every  step,  we  receded  as  it  were  more  and  more  back 
into  the  season  of  Spring.  The  cherry  trees,  which  at  Thier- 
achern  had  already  bloomed  a month  ago,  were  here  only  in 
their  first  bloom.  But  higher,  all  fruit  trees  ceased,  and  after 
we  had  crossed  the  last  steep  mountain  of  the  Kandersteg  we 
saw  nothing  but  a few  thinly  scattered  fir  trees.  The  village, 
consisting  of  small  wooden  huts,  unsurrounded  by  gardens  and 
trees,  lying  wide  apart  from  each  other  between  masses  of 
rock,  presents  a cheerless  aspect.  The  snow  which  lies  here 
for  nine  weary  months,  was  scarcely  melted,  and  the  meadows 
upon  which  lean  looking  cattle  sought  a scanty  fodder,  still 
wore  the  sickly  yellow  hue  of  the  winter  season.  Upon  all 
the  lofty  peaks  which  tower  on  either  side  of  the  valley  of 
Kandersteg,  lay  still  a deep  mantle  of  snow,  from  which  in- 
numerable small  rivulets  had  their  rise,  and  leaped  foaming 
down.  From  this  part,  the  road  still  ascends  for  three  lea- 
gues more  to  Gemmi,  and  then  descends  precipituously  to  the 
Leuker  Baths,  whose  hot  springs  are  greatly  frequented  in 
the  autumn.  As  the  made  road  ceases  at  Kandersteg,  the  vi- 
sitors to  the  Baths,  who  are  bad  pedestrians,  are  obliged  to 
be  carried  on  there  by  bearers,  or  upon  mules,  and  with  this 
arduous  occupation  the  majority  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  little 
village  eke  out  a scanty  subsistance. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


243 


We  slept  at  Kandersteg,  and  returned  on  the  following 
day.  It  was  an  agreable  feeling  to  return  by  degrees  as  it 
were  from  winter  once  more  into  the  spring  and  summer. 

July,  l. 

A few  days  ago  I sent  five  new  works  to  Herr  Peters  at 
Leipsic  to  be  engraved.  They  were  two  collections  of  Songs, 
three  Duetts  for  two  Violins,  the  seventh  Violin  Concerto  and 
a grand  Polonaise  for  Violin  and  Orchestra,  work  37  — 41. 
The  Duetts  and  one  of  the  Songs  are  new;  the  other  Songs 
which  I wrote  the  previous  summer  at  Carolath,  I have  partly 
rewritten  and  newly  instrumentated  the  Polonaise. 

After  mature  consideration  we  have  resolved  to  make  the 
journey  to  Italy  without  our  carriage,  as  one  travels  there 
more  economically  and  safely  by  Vetturino.  The  chief  reason 
for  this  decision  was  the  fear  that  the  renewed  exertion  upon 
the  instrument  which  so  much  affects  the  nerves  might  again 
shake  the  health  of  my  good  Dorette , and  embitter  both  for 
her  and  us  the  long  anticipated  enjoyment  of  the  deligthful 
journey.  As  therefore  we  were  going  to  leave  the  harp  and 
a part  of  our  luggage  behind  with  our  host,  until  our  return, 
we  should  not  require  the  carriage,  and  save  at  the  same 
time  the  long  circuitous  route  by  the  highroad  to  the  lake  of 
Geneva,  and  through  the  whole  length  of  the  valley  of  the 
Valais.  That  Dorette  however,  as  artiste,  should  not  wholly 
sink  into  inactivity,  I shall  write  several  things  in  part  anew, 
for  Violin  and  Pianoforte,  and  re-arrange  some  from  former 
things,  which  we  can  then  play  both  in  private  circles  and  in 
public  in  Italy,  where  it  is  even  said  there  is  great  difficulty 
in  meeting  with  a good  Quartett  accompaniment.  In  the  way 
of  preparation  for  our  next  winter  journey,  I may  also  mention 
an  improvement  I have  made  upon  my  newly  acquired  violin. 
By  a variety  of  experiments  with  voice  and  bridge,  I have  at 
length  so  far  succeeded  as  to  make  it  speak  as  softly  with 
the  Quinte  which  was  hitherto  hard  and  brittle,  as  with  the 
other  strings.  The  change  in  the  instrument  has  not  been 

16* 


Digitized  by  Google 


244 


without  effect  on  the  style  of  the  new  Violin-compositions,  as 
also  upon  my  method  of  execution!  So  certain  it  is,  that, 
the  instrument  exercises  an  influence  upon  the  method  of  the 
player  in  the  same  manner  as  does  the  voice  upon  that  of  the 
the  singer.  As  one  endeavours  to  conceal  the  weak  points  of 
the  instrument,  and  to  bring  out  its  good  qualities,  one  plays 
more  especially  what  the  instruments  renders  with  the  most 
ease,  and  in  this  manner  the  whole  method  of  play  becomes 
by  degrees  subordinate  and  appropriate  to  the  peculiarity  of 
the  instrument.  One  may  therefore  not  only  recognise  the 
peculiarities  of  a Virtuoso  by  his  compositions,  but  those  also 
of  his  instrument. 

August,  l. 

We  have  again  made  some  farther  excursions  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood. First  of  all,  a fortnight  ago  we  went  to  Bern , to 
repay  the  solicited  visit  to  Professor  John , who  accompained 
by  his  wife  and  Edward  had  several  times  visited  us.  We 
passed  a most  delightful  day  with  our  Bernese  friends.  For 
the  last  month  we  had  been  in  hopes  of  settled  weather,  in 
order  to  make  an  excursion  on  the  lake;  but  with  the  wet- 
cold  weather  of  this  summer  we  have  as  yet  not  had  three 
wholly  bright  days  in  succession.  At  length  it  appeared  as 
though  it  wrould  be  finer!  The  mountains,  which  for  a long 
time  we  had  not  seen  w holly  unshrouded,  stood  out  on  Friday 
evening  in  all  their  majestic  distinctness.  On  Saturday  the 
horizon  remained  quite  clear.  As  the  height  of  the  barometer 
now  also  indicated  settled  fair  weather,  we  resolved  to  set  out 
on  our  journey  early  the  following  morning.  On  our  awaking, 
a bright  clear  sky  filled  us  with  the  most  agreable  expecta- 
tions, and  we  got  into  our  Rietwageli  amid  the  joyous  excla- 
mations of  the  children.  At  Thun  I hired  an  extra-boat  which 
carried  us  over  the  whole  length  of  the  lake.  This  voyage  in 
the  beautiful  calm  Sabbath  morning  gave  us  the  most  inex- 
pressible delight.  The  sail  so  over  the  green,  clear  bosom  of 
the  lake,  and  along  its  banks  clothed  in  the  richest  verdure, 
the  majestic  chain  of  the  Alps  in  the  back  ground,  whose 


Digitized  by  Google 


245 


snow  covered  peaks  mirrored  themselves  in  trembling  outlines 
in  the  fathomless  depth  of  the  lake,  the  solemn  tolling  of 
the  bells  calling  to  Divine  worship,  every  thing  was  entran- 
cing, and  inspired  as  with  a sense  of  the  purest  joy.  At  Neu- 
haus,  where  we  landed  after  a three  hour’s  sail,  we  were  pounced 
upon  immediately  by  one  of  the  drivers  of  the  carriages  ply- 
ing there  for  hire.  We  permitted  him  drive  us  to  Lauter- 
brunn.  The  road  leads  through  the  little,  poverty  stricken 
town  of  Untersee,  round  the  base  of  a projecting  mountain  into 
a deep  valley,  resembling  that  from  Frutigen  to  Kandersteg, 
but  not  quite  so  wild  and  barren.  Almost  at  the  extremity 
of  this  valley,  after  it  has  gradually  become  somewhat  higher, 
lies  Lauterbrunn.  As  soon  as  we  had  turned  the  base  of  the 
last  projecting  wall  of  rock,  the  Staubach  lay  before  us  in  all 
its  grandeur.  The  water  precipitates  itself  down  from  an  im- 
mense height  upon  a perpendicular  wall  of  rock,  and  scatters 
itself  so  completely  into  a vapoury  spray,  that  one  would  almost 
imagine  it  a cloud  of  the  finest  dust  rather  than  water.  Every 
thing  around  this  wonder  of  nature  is  worthy  of  it.  In  the 
back  ground  of  the  valley,  barriers  of  rock,  over  which  also, 
leap  numerous  small  streams  of  water;  abpve  them  a glacier 
of  a greenish  hue,  and  near  that,  stretching  far  away,  the 
Wengern  Alps,  above  which  the  Jungfrau  towering  majestically 
over  all.  Upon  our  arrival,  we  were  so  fortunate  as  to  be  still 
enabled  to  behold  the  whole  grandeur  of  this  sublime  scene 
under  favour  of  the  most  beautiful  weather.  But  shortly  af- 
terwards, to  our  regret,  the  sky  became  obscured,  and  while 
we  were  taking  dinner  at  the  inn,  hail  and  rain  poured  down 
in  torrents.  Towards  evening  it  again  cleared  up  a little.  We 
hastened  therefore  to  take  a walk  through  the  village  in  the 
direction  of  the  waterfall,  but  found  that  our  previous  point 
of  view  from  the  side,  was  far  more  favorable  than  close  in 
front  of  it.  We  were  exceedingly  annoyed  by  the  pertinaceous 
solicitations  of  beggars  on  every  kind  of  plea.  One  offered 
small  pieces  of  quartz  or  minerals,  and  another  cristals  for  sale. 
Two  grown  up  maidens  had  posted  themselves  on  the  road 


Digitized  by 


Google 


246 


and  howled  a Duett,  for  which  they  expected  to  be  remu- 
nerated. We  were  however  soon  driven  back  inta  the  inn  by 
the  recommencing  rain,  from  the  windows  of  which  we  enjoyed 
a third  view  of  the  waterfall  from  another  aspect. 

August,  12. 

We  are  just  returned  from  Freiburg,  where  we  went  to 
hear  the  Swiss  Musical  festival.  Herr  Nagcli , the  President 
of  the  Swiss  Society  of  Music,  had  in  Zurich  previously  invited 
me  to  it,  and  offered  me  its  direction,  which  I willingly 
accepted.  But  he  had  not  then  bethought  him  that  the  sta- 
tutes of  the  Society  expressly  forbid  that  a foreign  and  non- 
member of  the  Union  should  direct  the  concerts.  We  received 
therefore  from  the  Director  of  the  Society  (who  here  in  Switzer- 
land is  not  the  same  who  directs  the  music,  but  he  who  con- 
ducts the  correspondance,  provides  the  locale,  superintends  the 
erection  of  the  orchestral  platform  and  the  printing  of  the 
tickets  of  admission)  a friendly  invitation  it  is  true,  to  be  pre- 
sent at  the  Festival,  but  not  a word  was  said  about  the  di- 
rection of  the  orchestra.  Instead  of  that,  he  begged  me  to 
assist  with  the  violin.  But  as  I had  always  replied  both  by 
word  of  mouth  and  writing  in  the  affirmative,  whenever  ques- 
tioned whether  I would  direct  the  Musical  Festival  this  year, 
and  that  this  had  been  more  widely  circulated,  I could  not 
now  well  undertake  a subordinate  role  at  the  Festival.  I 
therefore  excused  myself  from  assisting  at  it,  but  wrote  to 
say  that  we  would  attend  the  Festival  as  hearers.  On  the 
6th,  with  clear  favourable  weather  we  drove  to  Freiburg  in 
our  Rietwageli.  Upon  our  arrival,  although  I had  declined 
to  assist  at  the  Festival,  we  were  lodged  in  a private  house 
just  the  same  as  the  members  of  the  society,  and  found  there 
tickets  for  admission  to  all  the  rehearsals  and  performances 
as  also  to  a dress  ball,  with  text  books  of  the  “Schopfung” 
(Creation)  in  French  and  German,  and  for  myself  also  an  invi- 
tation to  the  sittings  of  the  Society  ....  As  the  weather  was 
very  fine,  we  resolved  upon  a walk  with  the  children  to  the  ce- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


247 


lebrated  Hermitage,  three  miles  distant  from  Freiburg,  si- 
tuated in  a narrow  wild  rocky  valley  on  the  banks  of  the 
Saane.  This  was  the  habitation  of  a pious  Recluse  who  many 
years  ago  had  hewn  it  in  the  sandstone  rock  in  this  secluded 
part  of  the  country.  It  now  consists,  after  having  been  en- 
larged by  his  son  and  successor,  of  a Chapel  with  a bell  tower 
86  feet  in  height,  hewn  out  of  the  rock,  five  or  six  rooms,  a 
kitchen  with  a chimney  of  the  same  height  as  the  tower,  and 
several  passages  of  intercommunication.  The  whole  of  this 
space,  the  architectural  proportions  of  which  are  very  pleasing, 
is  gained  by  boring  and  excavating  the  gigantic  perpendicular 
rock,  and. has  no  where  not  even  in  the  window  spaces  any 
supports  of  masonry.  One  is  filled  with  wonder  not  only  at 
the  immense  patience  and  perseverance  of  the  two  architects, 
but  with  admiration  also  at  their  skill  and  sentiment  for  beauty 
of  proportion. 

The  chapel  is  still  very  prettily  decorated,  and  the  bells 
in  the  tower  are  still  sometimes  rung  to  summon  the  pious  of 
the  neighbourhood  to  mass.  The  remaining  apartments  were 
taken  possession  of  by  a peasant  - family  after  the  death  of 
the  last  Recluse  and  therein  they  possess  a commodious  and 
healthy  dwelling  at  all  seasons  of  the  year. 

We  dined  at  an  inn  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood 
and  returned  to  Freiburg  in  the  evening.  There  we  were 
informed,  that  during  our  absence  a deputation  of  the  Musical 
Society  had  called  at  our  house,  to  announce  to  me,  that  on 
the  following  morning  at  their  second  sitting,  I was  to  be  no- 
minated honorary  member.  At  the  same  time,  the  gentlemen 
had  again  begged  that  I would  lead  with  the  violin.  I was 
very  glad  that  my  absence  had  exonerated  me  of  the  unplea- 
sant obligation  to  give  a refusal.  In  order  not  to  be  taken 
by  storm,  1 slipped  secretly  into  the  Church  and  concealed 
behind  a pillar,  listened  to  the  rehearsal.  It  went  very  badly, 
and  I was  therefore  very  pleased  that  I was  not  of  the  party. 
After  the  first  part  was  over,  I was  obliged  to  retire  in  order 
not  to  be  seen. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


248 


When  I appeared  the  next  ruorning  at  the  sitting,  I was 
received  with  applause.  The  President  announced  to  me,  that 
the  members  present  had  unanimously  elected  me  honorary 
member  of  the  Society,  adding  thereto  many  things  very  flat- 
tering to  me.  and  made  honourable  allusion  to  our  musical 
Festival  at  Frankenhausen.  I returned  thanks  to  him  and  the 
Society  in  a few  words,  and  then  seated  myself  in  the  place 
assigned  to  me.  They  were  then  engaged  in  the  choice  of  a 
President  and  of  the  other  Officials  for  the  next  year,  and 
after  some  debates  nominated  Zurich  as  the  place  of  meeting 
for  the  next  assembly. 

At  three  o’clock  in  the  afternoon  the  performance  of  the 
“Creation”  took  place.  The  locale  was  exceedingly  favourable 
for  music,  and  the  orchestra  very  well  placed,  but  unfortuna- 
tely, on  the  opposite  side  to  the  Organ,  so  that  of  this  no  use 
could  be  made.  The  assistant  personnel , which  on  former  oc- 
casions was  at  least  estimated  at  three  hundred  and  fifty  per- 
sons, amounted  this  time  scarcely  to  two  hundred,  and  as 
the  larger  half  formed  the  chorus,  the  orchestra  was  relatively 
to  the  strength  of  the  chorus  much  too  weak,  so  that  it  was 
frequently  not  heard  at  all.  As  it  was  also  very  bad  besides, 
the  Chaos,  and  the  accompanied  Recitative  in  particular,  went 
awfully  bad.  The  Violinists  intonated  unbearably  false,  and 
the  wind  instrumentalists,  particularly  the  Hornists,  and  trum- 
pets, brought  out  tones  sometimes  which  excited  general  laugh- 
ter. Tollmann  directed  with  firmness  and  foresight,  but  un- 
happily took  several  tempi  totally  false,  almost  all  the  airs 
too  slow  and  the  chorus  too  fast.  His  greatest  mistake  was 
in  the  chorus  after  the  Chaos:  “Und  der  Geist  Gottes  etc.” 
(And  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  etc.)  which  he  gave  just  like  an 
Allegro.  The  chorus  had  been  well  practised  and  sang  power- 
fully and  purely.  It  consisted  chiefly  of  German  singers.  Among 
the  Solo-singers  there  were  however  two  from  French  Switzer- 
land who  sang  in  their  mother  tongue  which  sounded  droll 
enough,  particularly  in  the  Duett  between  Adam  and  Eve 
in  which  the  latter  replied  in  French  to  the  tender  breathings 


Digitized  by  Google 


249 


of  her  German  Adam.  To  the  auditors  at  Freiburg  this  ap- 
peared however  in  no  wise  strange,  as  their  town  forms,  the 
frontier  boundary  of  both  languages,  and  on  one  side  of  the 
Saane  they  preach  in  French,  on  the  other  in  German.  Hence 
all  the  inhabitants  understand  and  speak  both  languages.  — 
The  part  of  Eve  was  sung  by  Madame  Segni  from  Lausanne, 
who  has  a very  fine  voice,  but  unhappily  also  for  a German 
ear,  an  unbearable  style  of  execution.  Among  the  German 
singers  were  also  good  voices.  The  assembled  public  applauded 
the  music  in  a very  lukewarm  manner,  and  there  was  not  a 
spark  of  the  enthusiasm  that  inspired  us  so  much  in  Fran- 
kenhausen. 

On  the  9th,  the  reheasal  for  the  Concert  took  place.  As 
it  had  been  previously  the  intention  to  give  it  in  a smaller 
saloon,  but  it  was  found  insufficient  for  the  accomodation  of 
the  audience  present,  there  was  a want  of  written  voices  for 
the  whole  of  the  orchestra.  It  was  therefore  much  less  nu- 
merously appointed  than  the  day  before,  and  its  want  of  pu- 
rety,  and  stupidity  were  still  more  obvious  to  the  ear.  But 
how  could  it  be  otherwise  with  an  Orchestra  composed  wholly 
of  dilettanti  and  particularly  of  Swiss  dilettanti  ? The  easiest 
passages  were  obliged  to  be  repeated  from  six  to  eight  times 
before  they  went  even  tolerably.  I was  astonished  all  along 
with  the  indefatigable  patience  of  the  worthy  Tollmann , but 
who  nevertheless,  it  must  be  confessed,  was  born  with  every 
qualification  for  the  Director  of  an  Orchestra  of  Swiss  dilet- 
tanti. — At  three  o’clock  this  remarkable  concert  began 
at  once  in  an  ear -rending  manner  with  the  Overture  to 
Gluck's  “Iphigenia.”  The  trumpets  were  pitched  a quarter  of 
a tone  too  high,  and  notwithstanding  the  weakness  of  the  or- 
chestra were  blown  with  the  utmost  strength  of  lungs.  Had 
the  Overture  only  lasted  a. little  longer  the  greater  part  of  the 
auditory  would  now  already  have  run  out  of  the  church.  Then 
followed  a long  succession  of  dilettanti,  partly  Singers,  partly 
Instrumentalists  with  their  Solo -pieces.  Some  of  them  were 
very  good,  for  instance  a gentleman  from  Iverdun  distinguished 


Digitized  by  Google 


250 


himself  by  the  ease  and  good  taste  with  which  he  executed 
a Harp-concerto  by  Bochsa.  Madame  Scgni  also,  the  ,,Eve”  of 
the  day  before,  sang  this  time  in  Italian  and  right  well.  A 
gentleman,  whose  name  is  as  little  known  to  me  as  those  of 
the  other  performers,  for  no  programme  was  distributed,  played 
variations  upon  a clarinet,  in  tone  and  form  similar  to  the 
Basset-horn,  with  much  skill  and  beauty  of  tone.  In  the  se- 
cond part  of  the  Concert,  which  we  did  not  stop  to  hear,  for 
we  were  now  satiated  to  nausea,  we  were  informed  that  a 
Clergyman  of  Lucem  and  the  worthy  Tollmann  executed  a 
Violin-Rondo  in  a very  effective  manner.  We  regretted  that 
we  were  not  aware  that  the  latter  was  going  to  play,  other- 
wise we  would  have  remaiued  to  the  end.  Such  were  the  pro- 
ductions of  the  Swiss  Society  of  Music  so  highly  spoken  of  in 
Germany.  Director  Conradin  Kreutzer  of  Stuttgard  and  his 
wife,  a native  of  Zurich,  whose  acquaintance  we  made  here, 
sat  near  us  during  the  performances,  and  we  were  pleased  to 
be  enabled  to  interchange  our  opinions  upon  what  we  heard. 
But  we  were  obliged  to  keep  a constant  guard  upon  our  looks 
and  gestures,  fore  we  were  continually  watched  by  those  sit- 
ting round  us,  who  sought  to  read  in  our  faces  the  impression 
their  music  made  upon  us.  When  we  were  asked  also  for 
our  opinion,  which  was  not  unfrequently , and  always  with  a 
sentiment  of  national  pride,  we  carefully  kept  in  the  mean 
between  truth  and  flattery,  and  by  that  means  successfully  ex- 
tricated ourselves  without  giving  offence. 

Kreutzer  told  me  in  confidence  that,'  he  would  not  return 
to  Stuttgard  because  the  despotism  there  had  become  thoroughly 
insufferable.  * My  former  Viennese  acquaintance  Romberg  and 
Kraft  were  just  in  the  same  position;  they  also  longed  to 
get  away  and  made  application  for  other  appointments.  — 
We  passed  the  greater  part  of  the  time  while  at  Freiburg  in 
the  society  of  Kreutzer  and  his  wife.  We  dined  and  supped 

* Mozart  has  recorded  his  hatred  of  the  “insolent  Aristocracies  of 
Germany”  towards  whom  Haydn  demeaned  himself  with  more  courtly  sub- 
serviency than  became  the  great  Master  of  Sound. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


251 


together,  and  during  the  continous  fine  weather  made  frequent 
promenades  into  the  charming  surrounding  country.  It  is  true 
the  Society  had  a place  of  meeting  at  the  ’’Schiitzenhouse44, 
where  most  of  the  members  dined;  but  as  women  were  not 
admitted,  because  there  were  several  unmarried  Clergymen  in 
the  society,  we  did  not  pay  a single  visit  to  that  place.  But 
I heard  that  there  was  a total  absence  of  that  sociability  and 
cheerfulness  which  gave  such  a zest  to  our  meals  at  Franken- 
hausen.  — The  ball  which  took  place  in  the  same  locality,  had 
neither  any  attraction  for  us,  as  none  of  us  danced.  We  sat 
therefore  meanwhile,  in  confidential  discourse  at  the  tea-table, 
and  amused  ourselves  with  the  relation  of  past  incidents  of 
our  lives  and  experience.  Kreutzer  in  reality  had  come  with 
the  sole  view  to  give  a concert  upon  his  own  account  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  musical  festival,  as  he  had  been  told  in 
Zurich  that  this  year  the  Society  would  only  give  one  perfor- 
mance. He  seemed  to  think  that  I had  the  same  intention, 
for  he  proposed  that  we  should  make  common  cause  and  give 
one  together.  But  I had  never  thought  of  giving  a concert 
here,  and  had  not  even  brought  my  violin.  His  concert  how- 
ever never  took  place,  for  the  Society  gave  a second,  and 
thus  we  had  no  opportunity  of  hearing  the  play  and  compo- 
sitions of  this  famous  artist. 

On  the  10.  early  in  the  morning  we  left  Freiburg,  spent 
the  afternoon  and  evening  very  pleasantly  in  Bern  in  the  so- 
ciety of  Edward  and  Jahii , and  returned  here  at  11  in  the 
forenoon. 


Journey  to  Milan. 

- In  Edward's  company,  who  was  desirous  to  avail  himself 
of  his  vacation  to  make  a little  excursion  into  North-Italy, 
we  set  out  upon  our  journey  on  Sunday  the  2d  September. 
At  one  o’clock  we  arrived  at  Kandersteg,  where  I immediatly 


Digitized  by 


Google 


252 


hired  four  horses  with  as  many  guides,  to  carry  us  over  the 
Gemmi.  On  three  of  them,  rode  Dorette , Emilie  and  Ida , the 
fourth  carried  our  luggage.  Edward  and  I preferred  to  do  it 
on  foot.  Three  quarters  of  a league  on  this  side  of  Kander- 
steg,  the  ascent  begins  and  continues  tolerably  steep  for  a good 
2 1/s  leagues.  The  road  then  leads  round  the  Gemmihorn  for 
some  distance  upon  a level,  till  at  a distance  of  s/4  of  a league  from 
Schwaribach  it  ascends  again.  — The  weather  had  up  till 
now  been  very  favorable ; but  here  a hail  storm  over  took  us 
which  soon  changed  to  rain  and  wetted  us  completely  through. 
As  it  was  already  tolerably  late  besides,  and  we  had  still  the 
greatest  and  most  difficult  part  of  the  way  before  us,  the 
guides  easily  persuaded  us  to  put  up  for  the  night  in  Schwa- 
ribach. The  inn  here  is  a mere  rude  blockhouse,  and  has 
nothing  in  common  with  the  hotels  in  the  Swiss  vallies  , that 
one  should  be  made  to  pay  here  equally  their  exorbitant 
overcharges.  Rut  as  one  of  the  two  habitable  rooms  was 
wholly  given  up  to  us,  and  that  besides  a bundle  of  clean 
straw  for  us  men,  we  found  there  a large  bed  for  Dorette  and 
the  children,  we  passed  the  night  nevertheless  in  tolerable 
comfort.  We  could  certainly  not  help  feeling  a shudder  of 
horror  when  we  called  to  mind  previous  to  going  to  sleep,  that 
the  midnight  murder  in  Werner's  “Twenty  fourth  of  February” 
was  enacted  here.* 

During  the  night,  snow  had  fallen,  and  it  was  bitter  cold 
upon  our  setting  out  next  morning.  I therefore  sent  back  three 
of  the  horses,  and  let  Dorette  and  the  children  walk  also, 
more  especially  as  the  descent  to  the  Leuker  Bad  cannot  be 
made  on  horseback.  At  Schwaribach  all  vegetation  ceases, 
and  even  the  beautiful  Alpine  rose  is  not  to  be  found.  The 
road  has  again  a very  steep  ascent  as  far  as  the  Daubensee 
(then  half  covered  with  ice)  along  which  it  runs  for  the  di- 
stance of  half  a league  through  a barren  valley,  in  which 

* At  this  inn  in  1807,  two  Italians  murdered  the  daughter  of  the 
Innkeeper,  and  this  circumstance  suggested  to  Zach.  Werner  the  Tragedy 
adverted  to. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


253 


seemed  to  reign  the  stillness  of  the  grave;  to  the  last  ascent? 
which  as  it  leads  through  snow  and  icefields  was  the  most 
toilsome  ascent  of  all.  Arrived  at  the  top,  to  our  disappoint- 
ment we  were  favoured  with  one  look  alone  into  the  abyss 
opening  beneath  us ; for  in  a few  minutes  we  were  envelloped 
in  a mist,  which  scarcely  permitted  us  to  see  a few  paces  be- 
fore us.  We  were  now  compelled  to  follow  blindly  the  pack- 
horse  and  its  guide,  and  to  keep  quite  close  together.  The 
road  led  precipitously  down  between  fissures  in  the  rocks 
and  sometimes  even  between  perpendicular  walls  of  rock  in 
which  a small  path  had  been  cleared  by  blasting.  At  the 
part  where  it  runs,  the  horse’s  neck  projects  over  the  abyss, 
and  the  guide  is  obliged  to  hold  him  up  by  a rope  secured 
to  the  load  on  his  back,  or  even  by  holding  on  to  his  tail 
with  all  his  might.  At  this  place  the  view  down  into  the 
depth  which  had  been  concealed  from  us  by  the  thick  fog,  makes 
the  head  so  giddy,  that  many  invalids  who  wish  to  go  to  the 
Leuker  Had  have  not  the  courage  to  make  the  descent,  and 
prefer,  after  having  had  the  object  of  their  journey  under 
their  very  eyes,  to  take  the  immensely  circuitous  route  of 
nearly  twenty  leagues  by  way  of  Bern,  Freiburg,  Lausanne 
and  through  the  Valais. 

After  we  had  continued  descending  for  more  than  an  hour 
without  finding  any  other  vegetation  than  here  and  there 
a violet  blooming  in  the  clefts  of  the  rocks,  we  came  sud- 
denly to  a region  where  the  mist  ceased,  and  we  were  now 
favoured  with  a most  unexpected  and  charming  view  far 
away  down  upon  the  Leuker  Bad  beneath  us.  At  this  place 
we  rested  ourselves  for  a moment,  to  recover  a little  from 
the  highly  fatiguing  exertions  of  the  steep  descent.  But  it 
required  many  such  resting  places  before  we  reached  the  bath, 
at  1 1 o’clock.  The  children  only,  were  not  fatigued,  and  were 
always  in  advance  of  us. 

While  we  refreshed  ourselves  in  the  large  and  well  ap- 
pointed inn,  I sent  for  fresh  horses,  and  at  2 o’clock  in  the 
afternoon,  animated  with  new  spirits  we  continued  our  journey, 
Edward  and  I on  foot,  Dorette  and  the  children  on  horseback. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


254 


Previous  to  leaving,  we  inspected  the  sulphur-spring  which 
rises  out  of  the  earth  at  boiling  heat,  in  front  of  the  inn. 

At  Leuk  it  was  not  possible  to  procure  any  vehicle  for  the 
farther  journey.  We  were  therefore  obliged  to  pass  the  night 
in  the  miserable  inn  to  which  our  guides  brought  us.  On 
Friday  the  4th,  at  an  early  hour  in  the  morning,  we  continued 
our  journey  to  Brieg  in  two  one-  horse  vehicles,  and  arrived 
there  at  noon.  The  valley  of  the  Valais  is  very  narrow  and 
little  cultivated.  We  saw  numerous  marshy  meadows,  and  but 
few  maize  and  potatoe  fields.  At  Brieg  commences  Napoleon's 
famed  Simplon-road,  a gigantic  work,  which  cannot  be  enough 
admired.  We  here  hired  a two-horse  vehicle  to  take  us  to 
Domo  d’Ossola.  The  road  is  so  ingeniously  carried  in  and  out 
of  the  mountain  ravines,  that  it  never  rises  more  than  five 
inches  in  six  feet,  so  that  heavy  loaded  waggons  can  descend 
without  using  the  drag-shoe.  Especially  remarkable  are  several 
colossal  bridges,  which  are  thrown  across  deep  glens  and  clefts 
in  the  rocks,  and  those  parts  of  the  road  which  have  been 
bored  through  the  rocks  by  blasting,  and  resemble  subter- 
raneous galleries.  One  of  these  is  so  long,  that  it  is  but  im- 
perfectly lighted  by  the  light  admitted  on  both  sides.  At  the 
distance  of  every  league,  one  finds  a house  to  afford  shelter  on 
the  sudden  coming  on  of  stormy  weather.  In  the  third  of 
these  houses  is  the  post-house,  the  sixth  the  custom-house, 
where  we  were  obliged  to  pay  a few  laubthaler  for  roadway 
duty.  Considerable  as  this  tax  is,  it  is  still  insufficient  to 
keep  the  road  in  good  repair,  and  it  is  greatly  feared  that 
it  will  by  degrees  fall  into  ruin.  Nevertheless  what  one  hears 
of  this  decay  in  foreign  countries  is  without  foundation,  for 
with  the  exception  of  some  of  the  barriers  which  had  been 
carried  away  by  avalanches  and  not  yet  reconstructed,  we  found 
it  in  good  condition.  Upon  the  highest  part  of  it,  the  con- 
struction of  a gigantic  house  has  been  begun,  in  which  if  it 
were  finished,  a corps  of  4000  troops  would  be  able  to  pass 
the  night.  But  since  the  fall  of  Napoleon , its  construction  has 
been  stayed,  and  it  will  now  soon  fall  into  decay.  The  Simp- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


255 


Ion  pass  is  certainly  not  so  high  as  that  over  the  Gemmi,  but 
here  also  all  vegetation  ceases,  and  even  in  the  village  of 
Simpeln  where  we  slept,  we  found  it  very  wintery. 

Wednesday  the  5th,  September  1816,  was  the  happy  day 
on  which  the  realisation  of  the  wish  of  my  early  childhood, 
to  behold  the  land  “where  the  citrons  bloom”  was  at  length 
to  be  fulfilled.  After  we  had  travelled  for  two  leagues  more 
in  continual  descent,  we  came  to  the  frontier  of  Lombardy 
and  soon  found  ourselves  transported  into  the  midst  of*  the 
South.  Now  we  beheld  woods  of  the  sweet  chesnut,  and  in 
gardens*,  figs,  almonds  and  magnificent  festoons  of  the  vine, 
trained  from  one  tree  to  another,  and  pendant  with  masses 
of  the  finest  grapes.  At  every  step  as  we  descended,  the  warmth 
increased;  at  first agreably , but,  soon  quite  oppressively.  At 
noon  we  arrived  at  Domo  d’Ossola,  a small  but  pretty  town. 
Here  in  the  Hotel  of  the  Capello  verde  we  were  for  the  first 
time  imposed  upon  in  real  Italian  style,  and  impressed  with 
the  necessity  of  the  caution,  to  agree  always  before  hand  with 
the  hotelkeeper  on  the  charges  for  the  accommodation.  After 
dinner  we  travelled  as  far  as  Laveno,  which  lies  close  to  the 
shore  of  the  beautiful  Lago  Maggiore,  and  opposite  to  its  ce- 
lebrated islands.  Here  although  we  had  agreed  before  hand 
on  the  charges  for  our  nights  accommodation,  we  paid  as  we 
were  afterwards  informed  too  much  by  half.  On  the  6th,  early 
in  the  morning,  we  visited  the  so  oft-times  enthusiastially  de- 
scribed Borromean  islands,  Isola  Madre  and  Isola  bella.  Like 
many  others  whose  expectations  have  been  unduly  raised  by 
the  too  lavish  praises  of  enthusiastic  travellers  of  particular 
localities,  they  did  not  come  up  with  our  too  sanguine  ex- 
pectations. We  were  most  pleased  with  the  Isola  Madre,  where 
for  the  first  time  we  beheld  with  admiration  the  vigorons  ve- 
getation of  the  South,  in  the  ancient  and  majestic  laurel,  citron, 
pomgranite  and  fig-trees,  with  other  shrubs  and  plants  of 
southern  growth.  Though  of  necessity  these  plants  must  here 
also,  as  with  us  be  protected  in  winter,  to  secure  them  from 
the  frost,  yet  their  growth  is  so  much  more  vigorous,  and  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


256 


fruits  are  much  larger  and  more  juicy  than  those  of  our  green- 
houses. On  Isola  Bella,  there  is  a large  but  as  yet  not  wholly 
finishedpalace,  which  contains  some  fine  apartments,  in  which 
are  several  fine  pictures,  but  the  building  is  already  going  to  de- 
cay. The  remaining  space  on  the  island  comprises  the  celebrated 
garden,  which  rises  in  ten  terraces  from  the  shore  of  the  lake. 
The  inside  is  supported  by  masonry  which  rises  in  progress- 
ively higher  arches  from  terrace  to  terrace.  The  plan  of 
the  garden  is  gigantic,  but  in  a bad  old  french  style.  The  nu- 
merous wretched  statues  in  the  alleys  and  on  the  steps  of  the 
terraces  are  particularly  repulsive  and  offensive  to  *the  eye. 
The  terraces  are  oramented  with  beds  of  flowers  and  nume- 
rous yet  more  southern  products,  which  in  the  winter  time 
are  put  under  cover  under  the  arches.  All  were  in  most 
beautiful  flower,  and  diffused  unknown  sweets  around  us. 
From  the  summit  of  the  garden  site,  a most  charming  view 
is  obtained  of  the  opposite  side  of  the  lake,  towards  Palanza, 
Intra,  Laveno,  and  the  beautiful  outline  of  mountains  which 
bound  the  sight.  Far  as  the  eye  could  reach,  all  was  canopied 
by  a sky  of  the  purest  and  deepest  blue,  and  lit  up  with  such 
a flood  of  sun  light  that  the  most  distant  objects  could  be 
clearly  distinguished.  This,  and  the  mild  balsamic  air  made 
us  especially  feel  that  we  had  entered  a southern  climate. 
Before  we  left  the  Islands,  the  gardener  conducted  us  to  an 
historical  curiosity  5 to  the  name  of  Napoleon  cut  by  himself 
in  the  bark  of  a laurel  tree,  shortly  before  the  battle  of  Ma- 
rengo. 

The  same  boat  that  brought  us  to  the  Islands,  took  us 
six  leagues  farther  to  the  little  town  of  Sesto  Calende,  at  the 
extremity  of  the  lake.  On  this  excursion  we  again  had  many 
a fine  view  of  the  beautiful  banks  of  the  lake.  Belgirate, 
Arona,  and  the  colossal  statue  of  St.  Carlo  Borromeo , were 
seen  to  great  advantage.  At  Sesto  Calende,  we  already  found 
the  dirt  and  smell  peculiar  to  Italian  towns,  and  that  of  an 
Oil-boilery,  so  offensive  to  a German  palate.  On  the  7th  we 
performed  the  last  days  journey  to  Milan  in  the  vehicle  of  a 


Digitized  by  Google 


257 


Milanese  driver,  through  a flat  and  uninteresting  country,  and 
put  up  at  a Pensione  Suizzera  which  was  recommended  to  us 
for  its  German  cleanliness. 


Milan , Sept.  9. 

The  first  of  the  remarkable  things  in  Milan  which  we 
.visited  yesterday,  was  the  cathedral.  This  beautiful  building 
upon  which  the  labour  of  nearly  five  centuries  has  been  almost 
uninterruptedly  devoted,  and  which  nevertheless  is  as  yet  un- 
finished, approaches  most  nearly  in  style  and  architecture  to 
the  cathedral  of  Strasburg,  but  in  form  is  nevertheless  very 
different  from  the  latter.  It  is  in  the  form  of  a lengthened 
cross ; at  the  place  where  the  two  lines  meet,  stands  the  high- 
altar,  and  above  that,  the  span  of  the  majestic  dome,  upon 
which  the  pretty  tower  in  the  form  of  a pyramid  is  built, 
the  top  of  which  is  surmounted  by  the  colossal  statue  in  bronze 
of  the  holy  Virgin.  Innumerable  other  pierced  gothic  pyra- 
mids ornamented  with  niches  and  statues  rest  in  part  upon 
the  pillars  of  the  external  walls,  and  in  part  on  the  marble- 
slabbed  roof,  increasing  in  height  more*  and  more  the  nearer 
they  approach  to  the  tower.  On  the  pinnacle  of  each  stands 
the  statue  of  some  Saint.  The  whole  structure,  from  the  ground 
to  the  highest  point,  is  of  white,  polished  marble,  quarried  at 
Baveno  on  the  Lago  Maggiore,  and  brought  thither  by  the 
Ticino-Canal.  During  Napoleon's  rule,  the  work  was  prosecuted 
with  great  zeal  and  not  only  was  the  fagade  of  the  chief  en- 
trance . completed  (which  had  been  carried  out  only  to  the 
top  of  the  door)  but  all  the  pyramids  also,  upon  the  external 
walls.  At  first  sight,  and  seen  from  below,  the  building  now 
seems  finished;  but  upon  ascending  the  roof,  and  the  tower, 
one  sees  how  much  yet  remains  to  be  done. 

The  pillars  and  niches  are  in  the  Gothic,  the  doors  and 
windows  in  the  Roman  style,  and  the  statues  are  clothed  after 
the  Greek  manner.  All  the  sculptured  works,  of  which  in  small 
and  large  statues,  in  high-  and  low-reliefs,  in  arabesques  and 
other  ornaments  there  are  an  immense  quantity  in  this  splen- 

SPOHK,  Autobiography.  1. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


258 


did. building  are  from  the  chisel  of  celebrated  masters,  and 
it  seems  to  me  that,  the  modern  works  excel  even  the  ancient 
in  beauty  and  correctness. 

The  Interior  of  the  church  is  by  reason  of  the  painted 
windows  somewhat  dark,  but  on  that  account  and  from  the 
imposing  grandeur  and  height,  is  the  more  fitted  to  raise  re- 
ligious feelings.  Among  the  numerous  statues  in  the  interior 
of  the  cathedral,  that  of  Carlo  Borromeo  is  the  most  esteemed. 
Its  great  merit  as  a work  of  art  is  considered  to  lie  in 
the  anatomical  correctness  displayed  by  the  sculptor  in  the 
deliniation  of  all  the  muscles,  tendons,  veins  and  prominent 
joints.  From  the  gallery  of  the  tower  one  has  an  extensive 
view,  bounded  on  the  north  by  the  Swiss  Alps,  and  on  the  south 
by  the  Apenines. 

In  the  evening  we  went  to  the  theatre  della  Scala , where 
was  given  ”la  statua  di  bronza a semiseria  - opera  by  Soliva, 
a young  composer  and  pupil  of  the  conservatory  here.  Upon 
our  entrance,  we  were  surprised  at  the  size  and  beauty  of  the 
house.  It  is  built  after  the  model  of  the  St.  CarZo-theatre 
at  Naples,  the  largest  in  Italy,  and  contains  a spacious  pit 
and  six  tiers  of  boxes  one  above  the  other,  but  will  not  hold 
much  over  3000  people,  so  much  space  having  been  wasted 
in  the  manner  of  its  distribution.  The  price  of  admission  is 
the  same  to  every  part  of  the  house,  viz,  two  Lire  di  Milano. 
The  orchestra  is  very  numerous;  four  and  twenty  violins,  eight 
counterbasses,  the  same  number  of  violincellos , all  the  cus- 
tomary wind  instruments,  trumpets],  bass-horn,  turkish  music 
etc.  and  yet  with  all,  not  numerous  enough  for  the  size  of  the 
locale.  The  performance  very  much  surpassed  my  expectation ; 
it  was  pure,  vigorous,  precise,  and  withall  very  calm.  Signor 
Bolla  an  artiste  known  also  in  foreign  countries  by  his  com- 
positions, directed  as  first  violin.  There  is  no  other  directing 
whether  at  the  piano,  or  from  the  desk  with  the  baton, 
than  his,  but  merely  a prompter  with  the  score  before  him,  who 
gives  the  text  to  the  singers,  and  if  necessary,  the  time  to  the 
choruses.  The  composition  of  the  opera  is  more  in  the  Ger- 


Digitized  by  Google 


259 


man  than  the  Italian  style,  and  one  could  hear  very  plainly 
that  the  young  artist  had  taken  our  German  composers,  par- 
ticularly Mozart , much  more  for  his  models,  than  his  own 
countrymen.  The  orchestral  parts  are  not  so  subdued  as  is 
usual  in  Italian  operas,  tut  are  rendered  in  a very  prominent 
manner,  and  sometimes  even  so  much  so  as  to  cloak  the  sing- 
ing. It  is  therefore  astonishing  that  this  opera  has  pleased 
so  much,  as  this  genre  is  never  much  liked.  The  well  studied 
pieces  d'ensemble  and  the  finale  have  certainly  not  been  the 
reasons  for  the  success  of  the  opera,  but  a few  little  unim- 
portant cantabili’s  which  were  well  executed  by  the  singers. 
These  alone  also,  were  the  points  listened  to  with  attention. 
During  the  powerful  overture,  several  very  expressive  accom- 
panied recitatives,  and  all  the  pieces  d'ensemble , the  audience 
made  so  much  noise  that  one  could  scarcely  hear  the  music. 
In  most  of  the  boxes,  the  occupants  played  at  cards,  and  all 
over  the  house , people  conversed  aloud.  Nothing  more  in- 
sufferable can  be  imagined  for  a stranger  who  is  desirous 
to  listen  with  attention,  than  this  vile  noise.  On  the  other 
hand,  from  such  persons  as  have  perhaps  seen  the  same  opera 
thirty  or  forty  times,  and  who  come  to  the  theatre  only  for 
the  sake  of  the  society,  no  attention  is  to  be  expected,  and  it  is 
a great  condescension  if  they  only  listen  quietly  to  some 
“numbers”.  At  the  same  time,  I can  imagine  no  task  more  un- 
grateful than  to  write  for  such  a public,  and  one  is  surprised 
that  good  composers  will  submit  to  it.  After  the  first  act 
of  the  opera,  a grand  serious  ballet  was  given,  which  from 
the  skill  of  several  of  the  dancers  male  and  female,  and  the 
splendour  of  the  decorations  and  costumes,  presented  a very 
imposing  dramatic 'spectacle.  As  it  lasted  nearly  an  hour,  the 
auditory  had  forgotten  the  first  half  of  the  opera.  After  the 
second  act  of  the  opera,  another,  but  a comic- ballet,  not  much 
shorter,  was  produced,  so  that  the  whole  of  the  performances 
lasted  from  eight  o’clock  to  midnight.  What  work  for  the 
poor  musicians! 


17* 


Digitized  by  Google 


260 


September,  14. 

Last  evening  we  went  to  a concert,  given  by  Ferlendis 
of  Venice,  a Professore  di  Oboa.  His  composition  and  play 
were  alike  pitiable.  It  is  impossible  to  imagine  a worse  Tone 
and  a greater  want  of  Taste  in  the  execution  of  the  passages 
and  of  the  cantabile,  than  this  Professor  di  Oboa  displayed. 
In  Germany  he  would  most  certainly  have  been  hissed  off; 
here  of  a necessity,  he  was  applauded  as  a matter  of  course 
by  the  Free-tickets.  In  the  second  part,  Luigi  Bcloli  played 
a Horn-Concerto  of  his  own  composition.  This  it  is  true  did 
not  exceed  the  line  of  mediocrity,  but  the  execution  was  very 
superior.  Beloni  has  a very  beautiful  tone,  much  skill  and 
a cultivated  taste.  In  order  that  the  horrid  Oboe  should  not 
obliterate  the  last  more  pleasing  impression,  we  would  not  stop 
to  hear  the  remainder  of  the  concert. 

September,  16. 

That  the  Italians  are  a very  musical  nation  may  be  jud- 
ged from  the  fact  that  their  beggars  always  solicit  alms  either 
singing  or  playing.  Here  are  parties  of  four  or  five  such  mu- 
sicians, who  play  of  an  evening  in  front  of  the  Cafes,  a by 
no  means  intolerable  music,  usually  accompanied  by  a finely 
dressed  female  vocalist,  who  afterwards  collects  the  money; 
sometimes  they  consist  of  three  singers  who  with  guitar  accom- 
paniment execute  Trios  and  short  Canons  very  efficiently;  at 
others,  blind  fiddlers,  flute  players  or  singers  who  either  with- 
out accompaniment,  or  who  accompany  themselves  on  the  tam- 
bourine, seek  their  fortune  singly;  and  even  those  who  hawk 
things  about  for  sale,  offer  their  wares  singing.  Yesterday 
we  came  upon  a comical  fellow  of  this  kind.  He  had  manu- 
factured for  himself  a remarkable  instrument  out  of  a whip- 
handle,  from  one  end  of  which  to  the  other  he  had  stretched 
a single  string.  On  the  top,  this  cord  was  passed  through 
a ball  of  paste,  from  the  aperture  of  which  rose  a large  bou- 
quet of  artificial  flowers  by  way  of  ornament.  In  the  right 
hand  he  carried  a violin- bow,  with  which  he  produced  the  single 
tone  which  his  instrument  was  capable  of.  The  remarkable 


Digitized  by  Google 


261 


talent  of  this  artist  consisted  there-in,  that  on  a constantly 
repeated  melody,  for  the  fundamental  tone  of  which  his  in- 
strument furnished  the  Quinte,  and  which  therefore  never  con- 
cluded in  the  Tonica,  but  always  in  the  dominant,  he  impro- 
visated  the  politest  compliments  to  all  who  passed,  or  who 
sat  before  their  doors ; for  these,  the  persons  flattered,  seldom 
refused  a gift  of  money,  which  he  collected  in  his  hat,  but 
without  interrupting  his  song.  In  this  style  of  recitative  sing- 
ing, in  which  his  instrument  fulfilled  the  duty  of  the  orchestra, 
he  would  now  praise  the  shape,  now  the  dress  of  the  passers 
by,  and  one  could  see  by  the  self-satisfied  smiles  and  genero- 
sity of  the  persons  bepraised,  that  he  well  knew  how  to  touch 
them  on  the  weak  side. 

This  afternoon  we  went  to  another  concert,  given  by  the 
Societa  del  Giardino . The  two  Mesdames  Marcolini  and  Fabre 
sang  a duett  of  Rossinis.  The  former  is  celebrated  throughout 
Italy  as  an  contralto,  her  voice  is  fine,  and  she  has  great 
execution;  but  she  almost  always  sings  too  low,  by  which  in 
my  opinion  her  singing  was  much  injured.  Signora  Fabre  is 
the  Prima  donna  of  the  great  theatre  whose  high  notes  are 
particularly  fine , and  her  method  of  execution  cultivated. 
Although  both  singers  stand  equally  high  in  regard  to  voice 
and  skill,  yet  here  also  the  soprano  bore  away  the  palm  from 
the  contralto,  just  as  a bass-viol  can  never  please  by  the  side  of 
a violin.  In  the  second  part  were  sung  also,  a duett  of  Paccini, 
a Cavatina  by  Bonfichi , and  a Rondo  by  Paer.  All  alike,  the 
humorous  or  the  serious,  were  sung  in  the  same  manner  and 
with  the  same  ornamental  trimmings  which  have  been  heard 
a thousand  times.  The  compositions  were  almost  all  insipid 
and  without  intimate  connection,  and  the  singing  frequently  dis- 
turbed or  cloaked  by  meaningless  figures  of  instrumentation. 

September,  17. 

We  have  just  seen  the  Mosaic-Manufactory  here.  The 
most  important  work  is  a copy  in  mosaic  of  Leonardo  da 
Vinci's  “Last  supper”  on  which  the  artist  has  been  uninter- 
ruptedly engaged  for  twelve  years ; it  is  of  the  same  size  as  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


262 


original,  (the  figures  of  the  . size  of  life).  It  is  divided  into 
twelve  pieces,  each  of  which  is  about  three  ells  in  length 
and  of  the  same  breadth.  All  the  pieces  are  now  finished, 
but  only  some  have  as  yet  been  polished,  these  (from  the  ceil- 
ing part  only)  have  a bright  polish,  those  containing  the  fi- 
gures were  somewdiat  matt  in  the  colours,  at  least  as  compared 
to  the  good  copy  of  the  picture  from  which  it  had  been  wor- 
ked ; but  perhaps  it  will  gain  yet  more  life  when  the  polishing 
has  been  completed.  Bonaparte  had  given  the  order  for  this 
work,  which  will  now  be  finished  at  the  expense  of  the  Em- 
peror of  Austria.  As  eight  ducats  a day  are  paid  to  the  work- 
men, it  already  costs  in  wages  for  labour  34,960  ducats.  Be- 
sides this  herculean  labour  we  saw  several  mosaics  in  the  es- 
tablishment^ of  exceeding  beauty,  exhibited  for  sale. 

September,  17. 

To-day  we  were  present  at  the  concert  at  the  Conserva- 
tory of  music,  for  which  Count  Saurau  had  presented  us  with 
tickets. 

What  I could  ascertain  respecting  the  interior  administra- 
tion of  the  Conservatory  is  as  follows:  The  Professors,  of 
whom  four  teach  singing,  one  the  violin,  one  the  violincello, 
one  counterbass,  and  some  others  the  wind  instruments,  are 
appointed  by  and  receive  their  salaries  from  the  government, 
which  pays  also  for  the  board  and  lodging  of  twelve  pupils, 
six  boys  and  six  girls.  All  the  other  pupils  some  of  whom 
live  at  the  Conservatory,  and  some  attend  only  at  the  hours 
of  tuition,  are  required  to  pay  for  every  thing.  The  Milanese 
^are  said  to  be  very  much  opposed  to  the  Institution;  at  the 
present  time  also,  there  are  scarcely  thirty  pupils. 

September,  22. 

To-day  I paid  a momentary  visit  to  a kind  of  Practis- 
ing-Concert,  where  the  dilettanti  of  this  place,*  perform  Sym- 
phonies under  Kolia's  direction,  and  in  particular  of  the  Ger- 
man masters.  The  string-instruments  are  chiefly  played  by  di- 
lettanti , the  wind  instruments  by  players  from  the  della  Scala 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


263 


theatre.  When  I arrived,  they  had  already  given  the  old  sym- 
phony in  D major  of  Mozart , and  some  overtures  by  Italian 
masters,  and  were  just  then  engaged  practising  one  of  the  grand 
Symphonies  of  Haydn  (B  major).  It  was  played  with  tolerable 
accuracy,  but  without  piano  and  forte,  and  for  the  most  part 
crude.  Nevertheless,  the  Institution  which  is  moreover  the 
only  one  of  the  kind  in  Italy,  is  a very  praiseworthy  one, 
since  it  enables  the  lovers  of  music  here  to  become  acquainted 
with  our  magnificent  Instrumental-compositions.  If  I do  not 
mistake,  this  weekly  Practice- Concert  takes  place  in  the  house 
of  Signor  Motto , who  is  said  to  have  a fine  collection  of  first 
class  violins.  But  there  are  a great  many  fine  violins  here. 
A Signor  Caroli  has  two  very  fine  Stradivari’s ; Holla  has  one 
also  of  great  beauty;  a Count  Gozio  de  Solence  has  in  his 
numerous  collection  of  fine  violins  among  several  others  by 
Amati,  Ghmmeri  and  Guardagnini , four  Stradivari’s  also,  which 
have  never  been  played  upon,  and  which  although  very  old 
look  as  though  they  had  only  just  been  made.  Two  of  these 
violins  are  the  production  of  the  last  year  of  that  artist,  1773, 
when  he  was  an  old  man  of  ninety  three  years  of  age  But 
it  is  immediately  perceptible  on  the  violin  that  it  was  cut  by 
the  tremulous  hands  of  an  infirm  old  man;  the  other  two  are 
however  of  the  best  days  of  the  artist,  from  1743  and  1744, 
and  of  great  beauty.  The  tone  is  full  and  strong,  but  still 
new  and  woody,  and  to  become  fine,  they  must  be  played 
upon  for  ten  years  at  least. 

September,  28. 

Last  evening  we  gave  our  concert  in  the  della  Scaia  the- 
atre. The  orchestra  kept  its  usual  place,  but  the  female  sin- 
gers, and  Dorette  and  I,  for  our  performances,  took  our  places 
under  the  Proscenium,  between  the  curtain  which  remained 
down,  and  the  orchestra.  The  house  although  favourable  for 
music,  requires  nevertheless  on  account  of  its  immense  size,  a 
very  powerful  tone,  and  a grand  but  simple  style  of  play.  It 
is  also  very  difficult  in  a place  where  people  are  always  ac- 
customed to  hear  voices  only,  to  satisfy  the  ear  with  the  tone 


Digitized  by  foozle 


264 


of  a violin.  This  consideration,  and  the  uncertainty  whether 
my  method  of  play  and  my  compositions  would  please  the 
Italians , made  me  somewhat  nervous  on  this  my  first  debut  in 
a country  where  I was  as  yet  unknown ; but  as  I soon  observed 
after  the  first  few  bars,  that  my  play  was  listened  to  with 
attention,  this  fear  soon  left  me,  and  I then  played  without 
any  embarrassment.  I had  also  the  satisfaction  to  see  that 
in  the  new  concerto  I had  written  in  Switzerland,  which  was 
in  the  form  of  a Vocal-Scena , I had  very  happily  hit  upon 
the  taste  of  the  Italians,  and  that  all  the  cantabile  parts  in 
particular  were  received  with  great  enthusiasm.  Gratifying 
and  encouraging  as  this  noisy  approbation  may  be  to  the 
Solo-player,  it  is  nevertheless  exceedingly  annoying  to  the  com- 
poser. By  it,  all  connexion  is  completely  disturbed,  the  tutti 
so  industriously  worked  out,  are  wholly  unheeded,  and  people 
hears  the  Solo-player  begin  again  in  another  tone  without  any 
one  knowing  how  the  orchestra  has  modulated  with  it.  — 
Besides  the  Concerto,  I played  with  Dorette  the  new  Pot-pourris 
for  piano  and  violin,  and  another  with  orchestral  accompani- 
ment. The  latter,  at  the  general  request,  I was  obliged  to 
repeat.  The  orchestra,  the  same  that  played  in  the  opera, 
accompanied  me  with  great  attention  and  interest.  Holla , in 
particular,  took  great  pains.  My  overture  to  “Alruna”  was 
played  at  the  beginning  of  the  second  part  with  great  power 
it  is  true,  but  not  without  fault.  The  orchestra  is  accustomed 
to  too  many  rehearsals,  to  be  able  to  execute  any  thing  free 
from  fault  after  one  rehearsal  only.  Madame  Castiglioni , a 
Contre  - Altiste  engaged  as  a supplementary  vocalist  at  the 
next  carnival  in  Venice,  sang  an  aria  in  the  second  part,  with 
a fine  voice  and  a good  school,  and  was  rewarded  with  a general 
applause.  It  had  cost  me  infinite  trouble  to  procure  these 
two  song-pieces;  for  the  singers  of  the  great  theatre  some  of 
whom  would  have  been  very  pleased  to  sing,  could  not  get 
permission  from  the  Impressario,  and  all  the  other  singers  of 
note  who  lived  here,  had  already  either  signed  engagements, 
or  did  not  dare  to  appear  at  the  Scala.  The  Impressario  at 


Digitized  by  Google 


265 


first  demanded  the  fifth  part  of  the  receipts  for  the  grant  of 
the  theatre,  but  by  the  intercession  of  the  governor  Count 
Sauran , this  tax  was  remitted  in  my  favour. 

After  the  concert,  I was  solicited  on  all  sides  to  give  an- 
other; but  as  next  Friday,  the  only  free  day  in  each  week, 
is  the  Emperor’s  Name-day,  on  which  the  governor  gives  a 
grand  fete,  and  we  have  no  desire  to  prolong  our  stay  another 
fortnight,  I shall  rather  defer  this  second  concert  till  my  re-i 
turn,  and  proceed  forthwith  to  Venice.  The  first  concert  more- 
over, has  but  little  more  than  paid  the  expenses,  which  amoun- 
ted to  fifty  ducats. 

A few  days  ago  we  visited  the  Picture  Gallery  in  the 
Arena;  the  locale  is  the  finest  we  ever  beheld.  It  consists  of 
three  large  saloons,  which  receive  the  light  from  above,  of  a 
long  gallery,  and  two  cabinets.  In  the  gallery  are  the  pic- 
tures al  fresco  collected  from  the  churches  in  Milan,  from  the 
walls  of  which  they  have  been  taken  with  the  plaster  on  which 
they  were  painted,  and  here  let  into  the  walls  again.  Among 
them  are  some  of  high  artistic  worth,  of  which  copies  and 
engravings  have  already  been  made.  In  the  saloons,  the  pain- 
tings are  chronologically  arranged,  and  the  name  of  the  master 
given  under  each.  In  the  first  saloon  are  those  of  the  earlier 
period,  in  the  middle  are  those  of  the  later,  and  in  the  third 
those  of  the  modern  school.  Yet  as  far  as  I know  there  are 
no  works  of  any  living  artists  hung  up.  In  the  Cabinets,  the 
smaller  paintings  are  exhibited.  The  most  precious  of  all,  a 
Raphael , which  although  of  his  earlier  days  when  he  still 
painted  in  the  style  of  his  master,  is  nevertheless  of  infinite 
beauty.  It  is  the  betrothal  of  the  Holy  Virgin  with  Joseph. 
In  the  centre  stands  the  Rabbi  who  in  a grave  and  dignified 
posture  pronounces  his  blessing;  on  his  left  is  Joseph , a manly 
figure  with  dark  hair  and  beard,  placing  with  a kindly  ex- 
pression the  ring  upon  the  finger  of  the  Virgin,  who  upon 
the  right,  softly  blushes  in  all  the  graceful  sweetness  of  maiden 
modesty.  Among  the  other  figures,  a youth  is  also  conspicu- 
ous, who  breaks  a stick  against  his  knee.  Artists  admire 


Digitized  by 


Google 


266 


greatly  the  foreshortening  of  the  inclined  posture.  At  first 
sight  the  sharp  outline  of  the  figures  strikes  one  as  unpleasing ; 
but  after  one  has  become  somewhat  used  to  it  by  a longer 
contemplation,  one  is  irresistibly  fascinated  with  the  elevated 
expression  both  of  countenance  and  position.  In  this  as  in  all 
Raphael's  pictures  the  hands  and  feet  are  of  exceeding  beauty. 

Venice,  October,  5. 

On  Monday  the  30th  September  we  set  out  upon  our  journey 
thither  in  company  with  two  amiable  Polish  Counts,  whose 
acquaintance  we  had  made  in  Milan,  and  of  a painter  who 
had  just  returned  from  a tour  in  Sicily.  For  myself  and 
family  I had  hired  a Vetturino  as  far  as  Padua,  for  seven 
louisd’or,  foy  which  price  it  was  also  agreed  he  was  to  pay 
for  our  supper  and  beds.  . . . 

The  road  to  Brescia  presents  very  little  variety.  Brescia 
is  an  ancient  town,  in  which  there  is  very  little  worth  seeing ; 
but  it  is  situated  in  a charming  locality  on  the  slope  of  a 
mountain  covered  with  vineyards  and  country  houses.  We  took 
a walk  trough  the  town,  in  which  we  saw  nothing  remarkable 
except  a vine  that  covered  the  fronts  of  five  houses  up  to  their 
roofs,  and  was  every  where  loaded  with  clusters  of  the  finest 
grapes.  One  of  the  Poles,  Count  Zozymola , had  meanwhile  paid 
a visit  to  Signora  Mulonatti , one  of  the  most  celebrated  Contre- 
Altistes  of  the  day,  whose  acquaintance  he  had  made  in  Florence, 
where  a few  months  previously  she  had  sung.  She  is  now 
reposing  from  the  fatigues  of  the  last  months  in  the  society 
of  her  Cavaliere  servente , a Count  Secchi  who  has  a fine  house 
in  Brescia,  and  a still  finer  estate  in  the  neighbourhood.  Du- 
ring the  Carnival  she  will  again  make  here  appearance  here 
in  Venice,  at  a salary  of  10,000  francs  and  a benefit.  Her 
admirer,  a man  of  large  fortune  and  extensive  knowledge 
has  devoted  his  whole  life  to  his  Donna , while  his  two  elder 
brothers  have  greatly  distinguished  themselves  as  Generals  in 
the  French  Army.  For  the  last  ten  years  he  has  accompanied 
her  every  where  she  has  sung,  manages  her  affairs,  and  de- 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


267 


votes  himself  to  all  her  caprices.  His  sole  somewhat  earnest 
occupation  is  to  write  her  memoirs  i,  e,  her  triumphs  over 
other  singers,  and  her  love  adventures.  Once  a year  she  fur- 
nishes him  with  the  written  data  for  the  latter,  which  are 
the  originals  of  the  love-letters  received,  and  although  he  is 
very  jealous,  she  nevertheless  prevails  on  the  good  natured 
fool  to  copy  those  letters  himself,  and  introduce  them  with 
their  respective  explanations  in  her  history.  She  has  a hus- 
band as  well,  and  two  children  by  him,  of  whom  she  is  said 
to  he  very  fond.  This  husband  plays  a thoroughly  pitiful  part; 
he  always  keeps  a certain  distance,-  and  awaits  every  look 
and  heck  of  his  ruling  mistress.  Up  to  the  present  time 
Count  Secchi  has  seen  neither  Rome  nor  Naples,  because  his 
lady  has  not  yet  sung  in  those  Cities,  and  she  would  not 
readily  grant  him  permission  to  go  there  without  her. 

Between  Brescia  and  Verona,  the  road  passes  along  the 
Lago  de  Garda,  whose  beautiful  wooded  shores  studded  with 
country  seats  and  enclosed  by  mountains,  present  the  most 
beautiful  views,  which  richly  repaid  us  for  the  uniformity  of 
the  previous  days  journies.  At  the  farthest  end  of  the  lake 
and  half  in  the  water,  lies  Peschiera,  a small  mean-looking 
town  containing  but  few  houses , but  with  extensive  fortifica- 
tions. From  thence  to  Verona,  the  road  is  again  very  unin- 
teresting. Upon  our  arrival,  we  learned  that  a female  Pianiste 
and  Harpiste  of  note  from  Naples  was  to  give  a Concert  in 
the  theatre,  and  we  proposed  to  ourselves  to  go  there.  Through 
the  slowness  of  the  waiters  who  brought  our  supper  an  hour 
later  than  we  had  ordered  it,  we  were  however  prevented  going. 
We  went  nevertheless,  at  eleven  o’clock  at  night  by  a beau- 
tiful moonlight  to  see  the  Coliseum,  of  all  the  monuments  of 
Roman  greatness , the  one  which  is  in  the  best  state  of  pre- 
servation. ...  We  ascended  to  the  topmost  benches,  which 
equal  in  height  the  loftiest  buildings  of  the  town;  from  thence 
we  had  a splendid  view  over  the  whole  colossal  structure. 
We  pictured  to  ourselves  the  immense  mass  of  stone  filled 
with  the  Romans  of  old  — how  they  cheered  the  victors  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


268 


the  Arena  beneath,  — and  then  lost  ourselves  in  the  contem- 
plation of  the  perishableness  of  all  human  greatness,  and  in 
comparisons  between  that  vigorous  people  of  yore  and  the 
present  inhabitants  of  this  beautiful  land. 

On  one  side  of  the  Oval,  the  prisons  are  still  to  be  seen 
where  the  malefactors  were  confined  who  were  to  be  thrown 
to  the  wild  beasts.  The  arrangement  is  still  existing  also,  by 
means  of  which  in  a few  minutes  the  circus  could  be  laid 
under  water  for  naval  fights  and  boat  races.  During  the  visit 
of  the  Austrian  Emperor,  the  people  were  treated  with  a re- 
suscitation of  the  ancient  horse  and  foot  races.  We  had  seen 
something  similar  in  Milan  of  which  I had  forgotten  to  speak. 

Napoleon  has  erected  in  the  Foro  Buonoparte,  a Circus 
in  the  Roman  Style,  whose  exterior  consists  also  of  a wall 
having  passages  for  ascent;  but  the  benches  in  the  interior  are 
of  turf  only.  Of  these  there  are  about  twelve,  but  from  25- 
to  30,000  people  find  nevertheless  room  sufficient.  On  one 
side  of  the  breadth,  stands  a handsome  building  with  a fine 
colonnade  looking  into  the  interior,  from  which  stone  benches 
run  the  whole  breadth  of  the  building  down  to  the  circus. 
In  this  modern  Arena,  which  can  also  be  laid  under  water, 
the  people  were  treated  at  the  time  of  the  coronation  of  Na- 
poleon, as  king  of  Italy,  with  a free  admission  to  a rechauffe 
of  the  ancient  Roman  games.  A third  but  smaller  edition,  on 
payment,  took  place  the  day  before  our  departure. 

First  of  all,  eighteen  runuers  in  Roman  costume  made 
their  appearance,  who  upon  a signal  from  the  trumpets  ran 
forward  in  a seemingly  encumbered  manner  to  the  goal.  The 
victor  received  a flag,  from  the  top  of  which  was  suspended 
a wreath  of  laurel.  The  two  next  best  after  him,  were  also 
presented  with  tokens  of  triumph.  Twelve  horsemen  now  ad- 
vanced to  compete  in  speed.  Several  fell  from  their  horses  at 
the  first  start,  and  all  of  them  rode  so  badly  that  they  ex- 
cited nothing  but  laughter  and  compassion.  After  the  winners 
had  been  again  rewarded , came  the  Chariot  Race , which 
however  presented  both  a new  and  interesting  sight.  The  six 
charioteers  were  mounted  on  small  two -wheeled  Roman  cha- 


Digitized  by  Google 


269 


riots  such  as  one  sees  upon  old  coins,  and  on  a given  signal 
to  start,  lashed  their  horses,  of  which  there  were  two  to  every 
chariot  into  a full  gallop ; at  the  extremity  of  the  course,  one 
of  them  in  turning  fell  twice,  horses  and  all,  but  without 
taking  any  harm.  The  others  drove  round  the  course  three 
times,  and  the  victors  were  again  presented  with  their  rewards. 
Now  commenced  the  grand  Triumphal-procession.  From  thirty 
to  forty  Hautboyists  in  the  Roman  costume  with  Turkish  mu- 
sic! — playing  a March  from  the  Opera  “John  of  Paris” 
opened  the  spectacle.  Then  came  the  Runners  carrying  spears ; 
and  at  length  a large  Roman  triumphal  chariot  drawn  by 
four  oxen,  with  the  whole  of  the  victors.  The  handsomely  de- 
corated oxen  had  been  harnessed  in  pairs  in  the  Roman  man- 
ner; but  the  poor  animals  had  not  been  accustomed  to  that 
sort  of  thing,  and  they  would  not  move  an  inch;  so  that  it 
was  at  length  found  necessary  to  yoke  them  in  the  same 
manner  as  they  were  used  to’,  in  their  dung  carts,  and  when 
this  was  done  they  went  off  in  style.  Behind  them  came  the 
unsuccessful  riders  and  charioteers  who  closed  the  procession. 

The  costume  of  all  these  people  and  animals  was  well 
chosen,  and  had  one  not  seen  round  the  Circus  the  modern 
beau  monde , with  now  and  then  among  the  runners  a three 
cornered  hat,  the  wearer  of  which  kept  order  in  the  games, 
and,  not  have  heard  the  Turkish  music  playing  the  march 
from  “Aline”,  one  might  indeed  for  a moment  have  fancied, 
to  see  beneath  one  the  old  Romans  of  yore.  But  these  soldiers 
and  hackney  carriage  drivers  were  so  sparing  of  their  mise- 
rable horses,  and  at  the  same  time  so  clumsy,  that  they  soon 
dissipated  every  deception. 

On  the  3rd  early  in  the  morning  we  parted  from  our  agre- 
able  fellow  travellers,  who  now  proceeded  on  their  farther 
journey  by  another  road  through  the  Tyrol  to  Munich.  We 
slept  in  Vicenza,  a filthy  dirty  place.  Our  windows  looked 
out  upon  a lonely  street,  in  which  heaps  of  dirt  of  the  most 
disgusting  kind  infected  the  air  in  an  unbearable  manner. 
But  one  meets  with  the  same  kind  of  thing  here  even  in  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


270 


largest  Cities,  and  in  the  most  magnificent  squares.  If  one 
ascends  a retired  flight  of  steps,  often  of  the  finest  marble, 
at  the  grandest  palaces,  it  behoves  one  to  keep  in  the  centre, 
to  avoid  contamination,  and  even  the  Cathedral  of  Milan  is 
unapproachable  on  many  sides  for  the  high  heaps  of  filth. 
This  exceeding  dirtiness,  in  which  the  Italians  surpass  almost 
all  other  nations,  prevails  also  in  most  of  the  apartments 
and  kitchens.  I thought  to  myself  that  a Dutchman  would 
go  out  of  his  senses  here! 

On  the  4th  at  noon,  we  arrived  at  the  ancient,  unsightly 
Padua,  where  we  stopped  till  eight  o’clock  in  the  evening. 
We  then  continued  our  journey  by  water  in  the  Canal-Dili- 
gence. On  getting  into  the  bark,  deceived  by  the  uncertain 
moonlight  I missed  my  footing,  and  fell  into  the  water;  but 
in  my  fall  I fortunately  caught  hold  of  the  gunwale  of  the 
bark,  and  was  immediately  pulled  on  board  again.  With  the 
exception  of  the  fright  and  the  trouble  of  changing  my  clothes 
I experienced  no  unpleasant  consequences  from  this  fall.  The 
bark  is  very  conveniently  fitted  up  for  the  accommodation  of 
from  twenty  four  to  thirty  persons,  and  towed  by  a horse  at 
full  trot,  goes  very  fast.  The  last  half  of  the  Canal  is  thickly 
dotted  on  both  sides  with  beautiful  country  seats  and  gardens, 
which  at  this  period  are  inhabited  by  the  wealthy  Venetians. 
The  Palace  of  the  former  Viceroy,  in  which  the  governor 
Count  Goes  resides  during  the  fine  season,  is  particularly  re- 
markable. We  much  regretted  passing  this  beautiful  part  of 
the  country  in  the  night,  but  even  by  moonlight  the  view 
presented  is  magnificent.  At  five  o’clock  in  the  morning, 
when  all  Venice  was  yet  asleep,  we  arrived,  and  alighted  at 
the  Albergo  della  Scala. 

Venice,  October,  10. 

Little  as  Venice  upon  the  whole , has  come  up  with  my 
expectations,  yet  I was  the  more  surprised  by  the  beauty 
of  some  parts  of  the  city.  The  Piazza  San  Marco,  is  par- 
ticularly imposing.  The  thousand-year  old  church  of  St.  Mark, 
built  in  the  oriental  style,  with  its  five,  cupolas,  its  innume- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


j 


271 


rable  statues  and  magnificent  mosaic-pictures  with  their  re- 
splendent gold  ground;  the  colossal  Bell  tower  with  its  pyra- 
mid which  serves  as  a beacon  to  the  mariner  far  away  on 
the  Adriatic  sea,  the  three  grand  buildings  almost  in  the  same 
style  of  architecture  which  enclose  the  square  upon  three  sides ; 
the  busy  life  under  the  Arcades,  the  rich  shops  of  the  traders 
and  the  tastefully  decorated  coffee-houses,  in  and  in  front  of 
which  from  eight  o’clock  in  the  morning  till  far  into  the  night 
the  fashionable  idle  world  of  both  sexes  may  be  seen  collected : 
the  mingled  vociferations  of  the  numerous  vendors  of  refresh- 
ments, and  of  the  criers  who  read  aloud  the  proclamations 
of  the  government,  or  announce  the  pieces  to  be  performed  in 
the  evening  at  the  different  Theatres  — all  these  together 
form  so  varied  a picture,  that  a stranger  finds  subject  therein 
for  a whole  week’s  entertainment. 

If  one  then  proceeds  to  the  second  square  which  abuts 
on  the  first  near  the  church,  enclosed  on  the  east  side  by 
the  former  palace  of  the  Doges,  and  on  the  west  by  the 
prolongation  of  one  of  the  three  large  buildings  adverted 
to;  a new  spectacle  quite  different  from  the  former  one  pre- 
sents itself.  Before  you,  the  harbour  dotted  with  gondolas, 
barks  and  trading  ships  of  all  sizes;  on  the  left  the  quay 
bordered  with  magnificent  buildings  and  churches  extending 
as  far  as  the  giardino  publico.  Opposite,  situated  upon  a 
small  island,  a monastery  in  whose  handsome  church  the  last 
Pope  was  elected,  and  to  the  right  on  the  other  side  of  the 
grand  canal  the  church  of  San  Giorgia  maggiore  with  its  ma- 
jestic dome,  surrounded  by  other  beautiful  buildings.  When 
the  eye  has  feasted  itself  on  these  objects,  it  is  attracted  by 
the  nearer  surroundings;  by  the  moltey  crowd  of  human  beings 
upon  the  high-arched  stone  bridges  leading  over  the  numerous 
canals  which  from  this  spot  intersect  the  City ; by  the  loading 
and  unloading  of  the  larger  ships,  the  embarking  of  the  fash- 
ionable and  unfashionable  world  in  gondolas  and  barks  for 
pleasure-excursions,  or  journeys  of  business ; by  the  singular 
forms  of  the  fish  and  shell-fish  exposed  here  for  sale,  and  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


272 


other  numerous  striking  objects  peculiar  to  a sea-port.  Having 
seen  all  this,  one  returns  gladly  to  the  square  of  St.  Mark, 
and  there  finds  new  subjects  for  admiration.  Upon  contem- 
plating the  church  more  attentively,  the  four  gigantic  bronze 
horses  over  the  chief  entry  first  attract  the  eye,  less  by  their 
artistic  worth,  for  they  are  not  of  the  finest  proportions,  than 
on  account  of  their  antiquity  and  their  various  fortunes.  Car- 
ried off  by  the  Venetians  on  the  taking  of  Constantinople,  they 
were  placed  as  war-trophies  over  the  chief  entrance  of  the 
church  of  St.  Mark,  and  there  remained  undisturbed  until  the 
French  after  the  conquest  of  Italy  took  them  to  Paris.  From 
thence  with  all  the  other  treasures  of  art  carried  from  Italy, 
they  were  again  brought  back  after  the  capture  of  Paris  by 
the  allies,  and  reinstated  in  their  old  place  amid  the  exulta- 
tions of  all  Venice.  Besides  these  horses,  there  are  many 
other  memorials  of  the  triumphs  of  the  Venetians  in  the  church 
of  St.  Mark.  Statues,  bas-reliefs,  arabesques,  columns  and 
capitals  from  Greece,  Egypt  and  the  Barbary  States,  and  it  is 
subject  of  astonishment  in  this  building,  that,  though  com- 
prising so  many  objects  executed  in  the  most  different  styles 
of  Art,  it  presents  nevertheless  a whole  of  such  harmonious 
beauty.  In  front  of  the  church,  stand  three  lofty  red  painted 
masts,  which  on  Festival  days  are  decorated  with  long  silken 
streamers  reaching  to  the  ground,  and  their  cast  bronze  foot- 
sockets  are  ornamented  with  fine  bas-reliefs. 

On  the  second  square,  close  to  the  water,  stand  two 
colossal  pillars  of  Egyptian  granite,  each  pillar  hewn  in  one 
single  block.  One  supports  a winged  lion  in  brass,  which  was 
also  carried  to  Paris,  the  other,  the  patron  Saint,  the  holy 
Theodorus  upon  a crocodile. 

The  interior  of  the  church  of  St.  Mark,  is  not  less  beau- 
tiful than  the  exterior.  Walls,  niches,  and  domes  are  entirely 
covered  with  Mosaic-pictures,  among  which  it  is  true  some 
are  of  little  artistic  worth ; but  in  the  most  of  them,  the  com- 
position, drawing,  and  colouring  are  very  fine,  and  all  have 
a pure  gold  ground  which  in  spite  of  its  great  age  still  shines 


Digitized  by 


Google 


273 


as  though  it  were  new.  Here,  however,  one  is  soon  surrounded 
by  whole  rows  of  mendicants,  who  plead  hunger  so  piteously 
and  look  so  disgusting,  that  one  is  glad  to  make  one’s  escape 
from  them  with  the  sacrifice  of  a few  copper  coins.  In  fact 
one  cannot  pass  through  any  part  of  the  city  at  any  time  with- 
out being  addressed  by  beggars,  and  it  is  said  as  many  as 
25,000  here  suffer  from  hunger.  At  this  period,  it  is  true,  the 
poor  subsist  very  cheaply  on  cooked,  or  rather  roasted,  pump- 
kins, which  are  sold  at  the  corner  of  every  street,  and  of 
which  a piece  as  big  as  the  hand  costs  but  a centisimo. 

On  leaving  the  Square,  one  finds  but  little  to  divert 
attention,  for  in  Venice  people  neither  ride  nor  drive,  the 
streets  being  so  narrow  that  frequently  two  persons  cannot 
walk  side  by  side.  In  the  busiest  part  of  the  city  not  far 
from  the  Ponte  Rialto , the  crowd  is  so  great  that  one  has  a 
difficulty  to  work  one’s  way  through  it.  From  the  dirty  habits 
of  the  Italians,  who  throw  every  sort  of  refuse  into  the  ca- 
nals, and  from  the  pestilential  smell  of  half -putrid  fish  and 
muscles,  together  with  the  disagreeable  effluvia  from  the  work- 
shops of  most  of  the  artizans,  it  is  very  natural  to  suppose 
that  in  these  narrow  streets,  the  whole  year  long,  one  cannot 
once  breathe  a pure  air. 

Here  gondolas  take  the  place  of  vehicles,  and  are  to 
be  had  at  a very  cheap  rate.  They  all  have  an  awning  of 
black  cloth,  which  gives  them  a mournful  appearance.  At  the 
time  of  the  Republic  such  luxury  prevailed  in  the  decoration 
of  the  gondolas,  that  the  government  found  it  necessary  to 
establish  the  present  mode  of  covering.  The  gondoliers  are 
very  expert  in  rowing  and  steering,  and  however  great  may 
be  the  throng  on  the  canals,  they  pass  each  other  with  great 
swiftness,  without  coming  in  collision.  When  one  hires  two 
of  them,  the  speed  is  equal  to  that  of  a horse  in  full  trot. 
As  the  houses  have,  besides  the  front  entry  towards  the  water, 
a side  door  or  exit  upon  the  street,  one  can  go,  it  is  true, 
everywhere  by  land;  but  on  account  of  the  bridges  one  is 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  L jg 


Digitized  by 


Google 


274 


obliged  to  make  so  many  turnings,  that  one  can  get  to  the 
required  place  as  quickly  again  by  water. 

October  12. 

By  the  most  beautiful  weather  we  to-day  enjoyed  the  sin- 
gularly splendid  view  from  the  tower  of  St.  Mark,  which  is 
ascended  very  conveniently  by  a spiral  ascent  without  steps. 
The  view  is  truly  enchanting!  On  one  side  one  sees  over  the 
extensive  mass  of  houses  to  the  mainland,  in  the  distance  the 
snow-covered  mountains  of  the  Friaul;  on  the  other  side  the 
harbour  with  its  varied  and  busy  life,  the  Islands  covered  with 
handsome  churches  and  buildings ; and  in  the  back-ground  the 
open  sea.  I do  not  remember  having  ever  seen  so  beautiful 
a view  from  any  tower,  not  even  from  that  of  St.  Michael’s  at 
Hamburg. 

At  4 o’clock  we  visited  the  church  of  the  Foundling,  where 
a mass  was  being  performed  by  the  female  foundlings.  The 
orchestra  and  choir  were  composed  entirely  of  young  girls ; an 
old  instructress  of  music  gave  the  time,  another  accompanied 
on  the  organ.  There  was  more  to  be  seen  than  to  be  heard, 
for  the  composition  and  execution  were  execrable.  The  girls 
playing  the  violin,  flute,  and  horns,  looked  strange  enough; 
the  contra -bassist  was  eunfortunately  not  to  be  seen,  being 
hidden  behind  the  trellis.  There  were  some  good  voices 
among  them,  and  one  quite  remarkable,  which  sang  up  to  g 
on  the  fourth  leger  line  (</3);  but  the  style  of  singing  of  all 
was  horrid. 

We  have  made  the  acquaintance  of  several  lovers  of  music, 
the  two  Counts  Tomasini , and  Signors  Contin,  Filigran , and 
several  others  whose  names  I do  not  know.  The  two  former 
are  assisting  me  greatly  in  making  arrangements  for  my  Con- 
cert, and  if  at  the  present  bad  time  of  the  year  for  business, 
when  every  body  of  note  is  in  the  country,  I should  have  a 
tolerable  Concert,  I shall  have  them  to  thank  for  it. 

To-day  we  had  a visit  from  a German  musician,  Herr  Ai» 
blinger,  from  Munich,  and  a pupil  of  Winter,  who  has  been 
residing  in  Venice  for  the  last  sixteen  years.  He  is  a pianist 


Digitized  by 


Google 


275 


and  composer,  and  seems  to  possess  much  real  taste  for  hia 
art.  At  least  he  complained  to  us,  with  a most  piteous  face, 
that  in  this  country  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  keep  pace 
with  his  German  brothers  in  art,  because  he  had  scarcely  ever 
the  good  fortune  to  hear  a German  work  of  any  note,  and 
that  with  his  enthusiasm  for  music,  his  heart  was  fit  to  break; 
that  his  circumstances  bound  him  to  a city  where,  for  sixteen 
years,  he  had  heard  every  year  the  same  things  over  again,  while 
the  Germans,  in  the  meantime,  had  witnessed  the  production 
of  so  many  classic  works.  I afterwards  saw  some  of  his 
productions,  and  it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  he  has 
been  confined  in  this  Siberia  of  art.  In  order  to  give  me  an 
idea  how  little  art  and  artists  were  esteemed,  even  by  gentle- 
men who  wished  to  pass  for  Maecenas’s,  he  related  to  me  an 
anecdote  of  what  occurred  to  Barmann  of  Munich,  who  was 
here  last  winter  with  Demoiselle  Harles.  Count  Herizo , a 
very  rich  nobleman,  who,  during  the  winter,  gives  a concert 
at  his  house  every  week,  to  which  he  frequently  invites  as 
many  as  two  hundred  persons,  besought  Barmann , through  a 
third  party,  to  play  at  one  of  them.  The  latter  had  himself 
already  announced  a public  concert,  and  presuming  that  it 
would  be  greatly  to  his  disadvantage  if  he  played  elsewhere 
before,  he  declined  the  invitation,  but  promised  to  play  after 
his  own  concert.  On  the  same  day,  however,  Count  Herizo 
gave  one  of  his  customary  grand  concerts  in  which  “the  Cre- 
ation” was  performed,  I believe  for  the  first  time  in  Venice; 
and  Barmann  had  so  thin  an  attendance,  that  to  cover  the 
expenses  of  the  concert  he  was  obliged  to  add  forty  francs 
from  his  own  pocket.  Nevertheless  a week  afterwards,  Count 
Herizo  repeated  his  invitation  to  Barmann , who  now,  how- 
ever, demanded  a gratification  of  twelve  Louisd’or.  After  much 
debate  this  was  at  length  agreed  to.  But  Barmann  shortly 
after  was  apprised  that  it  was  intended  to  play  off  a hoax 
upon  him.  To  avoid  this  he  wrote  anew  to  decline  the  invi- 
tation, and  went  on  a pleasure  excursion  with  Harles  to  the 
mainland.  Upon  his  return,  a friend  of  Count  Herizo’s  came  to 

18* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


276 


inquire  of  him  the  reason  why  he  would  not  play,  and  on  being 
told,  be  assured  him  upon  his  honour  that  nothing  of  the  kind 
was  intended,  and  that  Barmann  had  not  the  least  to  fear; 
upon  which  the  latter  gave  his  promise  to  appear  at  the  next 
concert.  He  was  very  politely  received  by  Count  Herizo , and 
the  music  began.  After  the  space  of  an  hour,  when  six  pieces 
had  been  performed,  Barmann  was  curious  to  know  when  his 
turn  would  come ; he  therefore  asked  the  loan  of  a programme 
from  his  neighbour,  and  found  at  the  end  of  the  whole  of  the 
pieces  of  music,  which  at  least  would  last  two  hours  more,  the 
following  words:  “If  time  will  permit,  Herr  Barmann  will 
also  perform  a concerto  on  the  clarinet.”  His  rage  may  be 
imagined.  Count  Herizo  is  reported  then  to  have  said  to  him 
at  the  end  of  the  concert,  in  a loud  tone  of  voice:  “We 
have  no  time  to  hear  you  this  evening,  but  we  shall  perhaps 
another  time !”  and  in  this  manner  he  was  cheated  of  his  pe- 
cuniary gratification.  Barmann  immediately  slunk  out,  but 
in  so  doing  was  so  unfortunate  as  to  mistake  the  way,  and 
instead  of  taking  the  passage  leading  out  upon  the  street, 
plumped  right  into  the  canal.  Fortunately  the  gondoliers  plying 
near  the  spot  came  to  his  assistance,  and  soon  pulled  him  out. 
Half-perished  with  cold,  and  highly  exasperated,  he  returned 
home.  Next  morning  he  was  summoned  before  the  police  by 
Count  Herizo.  The  director  of  police,  after  the  matter  had 
been  explained  to  him  by  Barmann , had  nevertheless  courage 
sufficient  to  justify  Barmann , and  to  point  out  to  Count  Herizo 
the  rudeness  of  his  conduct.  Under  such  circumstances,  how- 
ever, Batmann  thought  it  advisable  to  hasten  his  departure,  es- 
pecially as  a suspicious-looking  fellow  had  been  making  inquiries 
about  the  hours  of  his  going  out  of  evenings.  Fraulein  Harlesf 
also,  came  badly  off.  In  the  first  opera  she  gave  tolerable  satis- 
faction , and  fault  was  found  only  with  her  bad  accent ; but 
on  the  first  representation  of  the  second  opera,  she  was  so  dis- 
concerted, in  her  very  first  scene,  by  the  loud  talking,  coughing, 
and  laughing  ofk  the  audience,  that  she  ran  off  the  stage  in 
the  middle  of  her  aria,  and  fell  down  behind  the  scenes  like 


Digitized  by  foozle 


277 


one  dead.  She  was  seized  with  an  inflammation  of  the  throat, 
and,  during  the  whole  winter,  was  unable  to  sing  any  thing 
else  but  the  speaking  recitatives.  All  pieces  cTensemble  and 
both  finales  were  sung  without  her,  and  yet,  as  she  could  find 
no  substitute,  she  was  obliged  to  appear  before  the  public  every 
evening.  The  managers  deserve  praise,  for  they  played  her  no 
underhand  tricks,  but  paid  her  according  to  the  agreement  made. 

October  15. 

There  are  two  kinds  of  dilettanti -concerts  given  here. 
One  takes  place  every  fortnight  at  the  Fenice  theatre,  under 
the  direction  of  Count  Tomasini.  At  the  one  at  which  I was 
present  Teresa  Sessi , who  was  formerly  engaged  at  Vienna,  sang 
two  airs,  a duet,  and  a quartet,  with  much  applause,  in  her 
old  style,  which  is  neither  better  nor  worse.  Besides  her,  a 
dilettante  attracted  the  attention  of  the  auditory  by  singing 
several  buffo  things  in  the  genuine  Italian  caricature  style.  All 
the  rest,  particularly  the  composition  and  execution  of  the  ouver- 
tures,  was,  as  is  usual  in  Italy,  exceedingly  bad. 

The  other  is  a sort  of  practice  concerts,  and  takes  place 
once  a week,  under  the  direction  of  Signor  Contin.  With  the 
exception  of  some  of  the  wind  instruments  and  of  the  bass-viols, 
the  orchestra  is  wholly  composed  of  dilettanti,  and  the  pieces 
performed  consist  mostly  of  symphonies  and  overtures  by  Ger- 
man masters.  But  a proper  study  of  these  works  is  quite  out 
of  the  question,  and  it  is  considered  matter  of  gratulation  if 
they  are  got  through  without  coming  to  a stillstand.  On  the 
day  I was  present,  a very  old  symphony  of  Krommer’s  was  per- 
formed first,  which  was  followed  by  the  one  in  E flat  major 
by  Andrew  Romberg . 

For  the  finale  I was  solicited  to  direct  Beethoven's  se- 
cond symphony  in  D major,  which  I could  not  refuse.  But 
I had  a rare  job  with  the  orchestra,  for  they  were  accustomed 
to  quite  other  tempi,  than  I took,  and  seemed  not  at  all  to 
understand  that  there  are  shades  of  forte  and  piano  in  music, 
for  all  worked  with  bow  and  breath  as  hard  and  incessantly 


Digitized  by 


Google 


— 278 


as  they  could,  and  my  ears  rang  the  whole  night  with  the 
infernal  noise.  But  these  practice  concerts  are  nevertheless 
so  far  good  that  they  afford  the  lovers  of  music  in  Venice  the 
opportunity  of  hearing  several  of  our  classical  instrumental 
compositions,  such  as  the  overtures  to  “Don  Juan”  and  the 
“Zauberflote,”  which  they  had  not  hitherto  been  acquainted 
with;  and,  though  but  imperfectly,  they  learn  to  feel  that  the 
Germans  are  immensely  superior  to  them  in  that  kind  of  com- 
position. Indeed  they  say  so  themselves,  but  they  do  not 
thoroughly  believe  it,  and  only  acknowledge  it,  in  order  to 
be  enabled  to  boast  with  more  freedom  of  their  superiority  in 
song  and  vocal  compositions  (!1).  The  self-satisfaction  of  the 
Italians,  despite  their  poverty  of  fancy  is  in  fact  unbearable; 
whenever  I executed  in  their  presence  any  of  my  things,  they 
thought  they  could  pay  me  no  higher  compliment  than  when 
they  assured  me  they  were  quite  Italian  in  taste  and  style. 

October  16. 

To-day  in  the  forenoon,  in  company  with  three  Silesians, 
we  went  to  the  ancient  palace  of  the  Doges.  The  so  - called 
golden  stair  case  was  the  first  thing  that  attracted  our  attention. 
It  is  outside  the  building  as  far  as  the  first  floor,  is  of  the 
finest  marble,  and  ornamented  with  colossal  statues  of  beau- 
tiful proportions.  Up  to  the  second  and  third  stories  it  is  in 
the  interior  of  the  building,  and  there  is  richly  decorated  on 
the  sides  with  marble  bas-reliefs,  on  the  ceiling  with  gilt  mould- 
ings and  small  fresco-paintings,  and  with  very  fine  statues  in 
the  niches.  We  then  saw  an  extensive  suite  of  salons  and 
apartments,  which  were  truly  grand  in  decoration,  the  walls 
and  the  ceilings  are  painted  in  oil  by  the  best  masters,  and 
here  and  there  at  intervals  are  the  richest  and  most  beautiful 
sculptured  ornaments  I ever  beheld.  The  subjects  of  these 
pictures  are  almost  exclusively  incidents  in  the  history  of  Ve- 
nice; Doges  returning  thanks  to  the  Holy  Virgin  for  victories 
achieved,  or  the  surrender  of  the  keys  of  some  one  of  the  for- 
tresses besieged  by  the  Venetians,  etc.  etc.  Despite  the  want  of 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


273 


good  taste  in  the  bringing  together,  in  the  sepaintings,  of  hea- 
venly and  earthly  personages,  the  execution  and  grouping  of  each, 
particularly  in  those  by  Paul  Veronese , is  exceedingly  fine.  Alto- 
gether in  my  opinion,  there  is  no  kind  of  decoration  so  befitting 
and  worthy  of  a princely  palace  as  this,  in  which  the  deeds 
of  the  nation  are  immortalized  at  the  same  time  with  the 
name  of  the  most  skilful  national  artist.  In  the  present  day 
how  little  feeling  exists  for  this  kind  of  patriotism!  Where 
up  to  the  present  day  is  there  to  be  seen  any  painting  illus- 
trating the  modern  deeds  of  heroism  of  the  Germans,  executed 
by  the  order  of  a Sovereign  ? And  yet  how  greatly  the  artists 
of  the  present  day  are  in  want  of  such  encouragement  and 
support!  And  I am  here  speaking  of  painters  and  sculptors 
only;  poets  and  musicians  ought  also  to  have  been  invited  to 
immortalize  the  deeds  of  the  German  people. 

We  came  at  last  to  the  great  library,  which  contains  also 
a perfect  treasure  of  paintings  and  antique  statues.  From  the 
gallery  of  this  hall  one  has  a charming  view  of  the  harbour.  — 
In  order  to  be  enabled  to  make  a comparison  between  the  style 
of  decorating  palaces  in  former  time  with  the  modern  method, 
we  visited  the  apartments  in  the  government  building  fitted 
up  by  order  of  the  former  Viceroy.  We  found  them  pretty 
and  convenient,  it  is  true;  but  what  a difference  between  the 
earnest  splendour  of  that  ancient  palace  and  the  tasteless  or- 
namentation of  the  new ! Instead  of  the  marble  bas-reliefs  and 
the  rich  gilt  mouldings  and  ornaments  of  the  latter,  here  we 
found  slovenly  painted  arabesques  by  the  hands  of  unknown 
daubers,  and  the  walls  hung  with  silk  tapestry  or  figured  pa- 
per instead  of  the  pictures  of  famous  masters. 

October  17. 

Yesterday  Paganini  returned  here  again  from  Trieste,  and 
therefore,  as  it  would  appear,  has  at  once  abandoned  his  pro- 
ject of  going  to  Vienna.  He  called  on  me  this  morning,  and 
so  I have  at  length  made  the  personal  acquaintance  of  this 
wonderful  man,  of  whom  since  I have  been  in  Italy  I have 


Digitized  by  Google 


280 


heard  some  story  or  other  every  day.  No  instrumentalist  ever 
charmed  the  Italians  so  much  as  he,  and  although  they  are 
not  very  fond  of  instrumental  concerts,  yet  he  gave  more  than 
a dozen  concerts  in  Milan  and  five  here.  On  making  nearer 
enquiry,  what  it  is  that  he  in  reality  fascinates  his  auditory 
with,  one  hears  from  the  non -musical  portion  the  most  ex- 
aggerated encomiums  — that  he  is  a complete  wizard,  and  brings 
tones  from  his  violin  which  were  never  heard  before  from  that 
instrument.  Connoisseurs,  on  the  other  hand,  say  that  it  can- 
not be  denied  he  certainly  possesses  a great  dexterity  with  the 
left  hand,  in  double-chords  and  in  passages  of  every  kind,  but 
that  the  very  thing  by  which  he  fascinates  the  crowd  debases 
him  to  a mere  charlatan,  and  does  not  compensate  for  that  in 
which  he  is  utterly  wanting  — a grand  tone,  a long  bow-stroke, 
and  a tasteful  execution.  But  that  by  which  he  captivates  the 
Italian  public  and  which  has  acquired  for  him  the  name  of  the 
“Inimitable,”  which  is  even  placed  under  his  portraits,  consists, 
on  a nearer  enquiry,  in  a succession  of  feats  which,  in  the  dark 
times  of  good  taste,  the  once  so  famous  Scheller  performed  in 
the  small  towns  and  some  capitals  of  Germany,  and  which  at 
that  time  equally  excited  the  admiration  of  our  countrymen, 
viz,  in  the  flageolet  tones;  in  variations  upon  one  string,  in 
which  for  the  purpose  of  imposing  more  upon  the  audience, 
he  takes  off  the  other  three  strings  of  the  violin;  in  a pecu- 
liar kind  of  pizzicato,  produced  with  the  left  hand  without  the 
help  of  the  right  or  of  the  bow;  and  in  many  tones  quite  un- 
natural to  the  violin,  such  as  the  bassoon  tone,  the  voice  of 
an  old  woman,  etc.  etc.  — As  I never  heard  the  wonderful 
Scheller , whose  saying  was:  “One  God!  one  Scheller!”  I should 
much  like  to  hear  Paganini  play  in  his  peculiar  manner,  and 
the  more  so,  because  I presume  that  so  admired  an  artist  must 
possess  some  more  real  merits  than  those  adverted  to. 

The  origin  of  his  present  skill  as  a virtuoso  is  said  to  have 
been  a four  years  incarceration,  to  which  he  was  condemned  :for 
strangling  his  wife  in  a fit  of  violent  rage.  Such,  at  least,  is  the 
public  report  in  Milan  and  here  also.  As  from  a wholly  ne- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


281 


glected  education  he  could  amuse  himself  neither  with  writing 
nor  reading,  he  cheered  the  ennui  of  the  tedious  hours  of  his 
existence  in  the  invention  and  practise  of  all  the  tricks  of  art 
with  which  he  now  astonishes  all  Italy.  By  his  disobliging  and 
rude  behaviour  he  has  made  enemies  of  several  of  the  lovers 
of  music  here,  and  they,  after  I have  played  any  thing  before 
them  at  my  lodgings,  extol  me  upon  every  opportuuity  at  Pa- 
ganini's expense,  in  order  to  annoy  him,  which  is  not  only  very 
unjust,  since  between  two  artists  of  such  entirely  different  style 
no  parallel  can  be  drawn ; hut  is  also  disadvantageous  to  me,  be- 
cause it  makes  all  Paganini's  admirers  and  partizans  my  enemies. 
His  opponents  have  inserted  a letter  in  the  journals,  in  which 
they  say  that  my  play  recalls  to  them  the  style  of  their  vet- 
eran violinists,  Pugnani  and  Tartini , whose  grand  and  digni- 
fied manner  of  handling  the  violin  has  become  wholly  lost 
in  Italy,  and  had  been  compelled  to  make  room  for  the  petty 
and  childish  manner  of  their  virtuosi  of  the  present  day;  while 
the  Germans  and  French  had  understood  how  to  adapt  that 
noble  and  simple  method  of  play  to  the  taste  of  modern  times. 
This  letter,  which  appeared  in  to-day’s  paper  without  ray  know- 
ledge, will  certainly  do  me  rather  harm  than  good  with  the 
public,  for  the  Venetians  are  firmly  persuaded  that  it  is  im- 
possible to  come  up  to  Paganini , much  less  to  surpass  him. 

October  19. 

Our  concert  took  place  yesterday,  and  was  better  attended 
than  I had  expected,  since  all  who  have  the  means  to  go  into 
the  country,  or  who  are  not  tied  to  the  city  by  very  urgent 
business,  are  away,  and  of  all  my  letters  of  recommendation 
the  only  one  I have  been  yet  able  to  deliver  is  the  one  to 
the  governor  Count  Goes . Neither  is  it  worth  the  trouble, 
to  bring  letters  of  introduction  to  Italians,  for  they  are  of  no 
manner  of  use.  A cold  offer  of  their  services,  which  they  do 
not  intend  to  give,  is  all  that  one  gets  from  them.  But  I must 
return  to  the  concert.  It  took  place  in  the  St.  Luca  theatre, 
which,  next  to  the  Fenice,  is  the  largest  and  handsomest  in 


Digitized  by  Google 


282 


Venice.  The  proprietor,  Signor  Vendremi , let  me  have  it  on 
the  condition  that  I should  relinquish  to  him  two-thirds  of  the 
sale  of  the  boxes  which  were  not  private  property.  There  exists* 
namely,  a curious  custom  in  Italy,  which  is,  that  certain  boxes 
are  sold  to  private  individuals  for  as  long  as  the  house  stands, 
whereby  the  proprietor  of  the  house  abandons  all  right  to 
them.  But  these  proprietors  of  boxes  must  pay  the  price  for 
admission  at  the  entrance  the  same  as  everybody  else.  This 
is  the  same  for  every  part  of  the  house,  and  always  a very 
low  one;  with  the  boxes  which  remain  in  the  hands  of  the  pro- 
prietor of  the  theatre  rare  bargains  are  sometimes  driven,  and  on 
the  performance  of  very  attractive  pieces  they  are  frequently 
paid  as  high  as  several  carolini.  Yesterday  very  little  was  taken 
for  the  boxes,  so  that  signor  Vendremi  did  not  profit  much. 
From  the  coldness  of  the  public  at  the  commencement  of  my 
play,  I immediately  observed  that  there  was  a prejudice  against 
me;  but  by  degrees  it  subsided,  and  towards  the  close  of  the 
concert  the  applause  was  so  unanimous,  that  I was  twice  called 
for.  All  that  I afterwards  played  now  found  a much  more 
ready  reception,  and  the  clapping  of  hands  was  as  boisterous 
as  in  Milan. 

To-day  there  has  also  appeared  in  the  paper  a very  fa- 
vorable report  upon  yesterday’s  concert,  in  which  it  says, 
in  reference  to  the  letter  adverted  to,  that  it  is  unjust  and 
partial  to  endeavour  to  praise  one  style  at  the  expense  of  an- 
other, and  that  there  should  be  no  monopoly  of  any  one  genre 
in  art  : in  which  report,  however,  it  also  says  of  me,  among 
other  things,  “that  I unite  the  Italian  sweetness  with  all  the  depth 
of  study  peculiar  to  our  nation,  and  that  I must  be  acknow- 
ledged to  take  rank  among  the  first  of  living  violinists  — en- 
comiums therefore,  such  as  might  content  the  vainest  artist. 

October  20. 

Paganini  called  upon  me  early  this  morning  to  compliment 
me  upon  the  concert.  I very  urgently  solicited  him  to  play 
something,  and  several  musical  friends  who  were  at  my  place 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


283 


united  their  entreaties  to  mine.  But  he  very  bluntly  refused, 
and  excused  himself  on  account  of  a fall,  the  effects  of  which 
he  still  felt  in  the  arms.  Afterwards,  when  we  were  alone, 
and  I again  besought  him,  he  said,  his  style  of  play  was  cal- 
culated for  the  great  public  only,  and  with  them  never  failed 
in  its  effect;  and  that  if  he  was  to  play  anything  to  me,  he 
must  play  in  a different  manner,  and  for  that  he  was  at  the 
moment  by  no  means  in  the  humour ; but  that  we  should  pro- 
bably meet  in  Rome  or  Naples,  and  then  he  would  not  put  me 
off  with  a refusal.  I shall  therefore  leave  this  place  in  all  pro- 
bability without  hearing  the  wonderful  man. 

This  morning,  on  going  out,  we  had  the  wholly  unexpected 
pleasure  of  meeting  Meyerbeer  and  all  his  family.  He  is  now  re- 
turned from  a tour  through  Sicily  to  meet  his  parents  here,  who 
have  not  seen  him  for  five  years : he  will  then  turn  back  through 
Florence  and  Rome  to  Naples,  to  be  present  at  the  opening 
of  the  new  theatre  of  St.  Carlo.  It  was  a real  enjoyment  to 
me  to  be  able  once  more  to  converse  with  a well-educated 
German  artist  on  subjects  of  art.  His  brother  gave  me  the 
gratifying  information  that  my  opera  “Faust”  had  been  per- 
formed in  Prague.  On  their  journey  through  they  were  pre- 
sent at  a rehearsal  of  it.  I now  look  forward  with  hope  to 
more  detailed  information  respecting  its  representation. 

At  the  theatre  St.  Moise  we  were  present  at  the  first  per- 
formance of  the  old  opera  “Don  Papirio,”  which  had  been 
studied  with  great  attention  by  the  vocalists  and  the  orchestra. 
The  prima  donna,  Madame  Marchesini , already  somewhat  passee, 
distinguished  herself  greatly  on  that  evening  by  good  execution 
and  clever  acting.  The  buffo  singer,  whose  name  I do  not  re- 
member, was  also  very  excellent. 


Bologna , October  25. 

Late  on  Monday  evening  we  left  Venice  by  the  “mail 
boat.”  As  the  wind  was  very  favorable,  we  performed  the 
first  part  of  the  journey  by  water,  as  far  as  where  the  canal 
falls  into  the  Lagunes,  very  quickly.  Twice,  for  a short  distance, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


284 


we  crossed  a part  of  the  open  sea,  that  is  the  great  and  les- 
ser harbour  of  Chiozza,  where  the  motion  of  our  bark  was 
so  violent  from  the  roughness  of  the  sea,  that  Dorette  and  the 
children  were  regularly  sea-sick.  I only  escaped  this  affliction 
by  seating  myself  on  the  deck  in  the  fresh  air.  When  we 
had  run  into  the  canal,  and  afterwards  into  the  Po,  where  the 
boat  was  towed  by  horses,  it  went  slowly  and  quietly  enough, 
so  that  I soon  went  to  fetch  up  the  patients.  As  I am  told 
here,  that  the  rich  people  of  the  town  are  still  in  the  country, 
and  that  even  at  the  most  favorable  season  of  the  year  con- 
certs scarcely  cover  their  expenses,  we  shall  abandon  the  idea 
of  giving  one  here,  and  continue  our  journey  to  Florence  to- 
morrow morning  by  vetturino. 

Florence , October  28. 

The  journey  here  over  the  Apennines,  with  very  fine  weather, 
was  exceedingly  pleasant.  The  mountains,  though  of  a con- 
siderable height,  are  wooded  almost  to  their  summits,  and  the 
trees  and  bushes,  were  now  rich  with  the  most  beautiful  col- 
ours of  their  autumnal  garb.  The  valley  in  which  Florence 
lies  presents  a highly  charming  prospect.  When  one  looks 
down  upon  the  beautiful  gardens  and  country  seats,  one  seems 
to  be  entering  a very  Paradise. 

November  2. 

Florence  does  not  quite  come  up  to  the  expectations 
one  forms  of  it  from  the  description  of  over  - enthusiastic  tra- 
vellers. Dresden  is  called  the  German  Florence,  but  is  not 
much  Honoured  by  the  parallel.  The  situation  of  Dresden,  as 
well  as  the  city  itself,  are  incomparably  finer.  The  Arno  is 
a dirty,  mean-looking  river,  and  is  not;  in  the  least  to  be  com- 
pared with  the  majestic  Elbe.  The  four  bridges  which  lead 
over  it  and  connect  the  two  parts  of  the  town  are  certainly 
good  and  substantial,  but  not  so  long  or  so  elegant  as  that 
of  Dresden.  Neither  has  Florence  such  fine  buildings  nor 
such  handsome  squares  as  Dresden,  and  excels  it  alone  in  its 
treasures  of  art  of  every  kind.  Of  these  there  are  so  many 


Digitized  by  Google 


285 


here,  that  one  can  scarcely  find  time  to  see  them  all.  On 
the  square  in  front  of  the  ancient  palace  stand  several  groups 
of  colossal  statues  in  marble  and  bronze  of  the  most  cele- 
brated of  the  old  masters,  which  make  of  this  square,  other- 
wise so  irregular  and  unattractive,  one  of  the  most  interesting 
in  the  world  for  connoisseurs  in  art.  A group  in  marble,  re- 
presenting the  rape  of  a Sabine,  especially  charmed  us.  From 
this  square  it  is  not  far  to  the  cathedral,  a gigantic  build- 
ing with  a cupola,  which  in  circumference  and  height  is  said 
to  be  little  inferior  to  St.  Peter’s  at  Rome.  The  exterior  is 
somewhat  too  party-coloured  and  not  very  tasteful;  the  walls 
are  inlaid  with  tables  of  marble  of  different  colours,  which 
present  a variety  of  patterns.  Near  the  church  stands  a very 
lofty  square  clock -tower,  which  is  ornamented  in  the  same 
manner.  Belonging  thereto,  although  isolated  from  it,  is  also 
a christening  chapel  built  in  the  same  style,  and  also  with  a 
tolerably  high  dome.  Here  are  the  celebrated  gates  of  bronze, 
of  which  Michael  Angelo  said  they  were  worthy  to  stand  at  the 
entrance  to  the  abode  of  the  blessed,  as  they  were  too  beauti- 
ful for  any  earthly  building.  There  are  three  of  them,  two  of 
which  are  executed  and  ornamented  in  the  same  style.  But 
the  single  one  is  by  far  the  handsomest  and  has  far  larger 
bas-reliefs  than  the  other  two.  In  the  whole  world  is  not  to 
be  seen  any  thing  more  beautiful  in  the  grouping,  drawing, 
perspective,  softness  and  purity  of  the  work  than  these  bas- 
reliefs. 

In  another  church  we  saw  a succession  of  tombs,  among 
which  those  of  Michael  Angelo , Nardini,  and  Alfieri  interested 
us  greatly.  On  the  tomb  of  the  former  is  his  bust,  executed 
with  his  own  hand,  and  three  female  figures  (by  one  of  his 
pupils)  personifying  the  three  arts  in  which  he  excelled:  archi- 
tecture, painting,  and  sculpture,  mourning  for  his  loss.  What 
however  does  it  not  confer  upon  the  arstists  who  merited  such 
memorials  of  their  worth,  and  upon  their  contemporaries  also 
who  raised  them  to  them!  Where  can  one  find  anything  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


286 


the  kind  in  Germany?  Where  have  Mozart  and  Haydn  the 
memorials  to  their  honour?  In  Vienna  no  one  even  knows 
where  they  are  buried. 


November  5. 

On  the  day  we  arrived,  and  almost  every  evening  since, 
we  have  been  to  the  theatre  in  the  Via  della  Pergola . They 
are  now  giving  an  opera  of  Rossini's,  uLTtaliana  in  Algeri,” 
and  a grand  ballet.  Rossini  is  now  the  favorite  composer  of  the 
Italians,  and  several  of  his  operas,  “Tancredi,”  “II  Turco  in 
Italia,”  and  the  above-named,  are  performed  with  great  ap- 
plause in  almost  every  town  in  Italy.  I was  therefore  glad, 
after  having  heard  his  compositions  so  frequently  and  highly 
praised  in  Milan  and  Venice,  to  hear  something  of  his  my- 
self. This  opera  has,  however,  not  wholly  satisfied  my  expect- 
ations; in  the  first  place  it  is  wanting,  like  all  Italian  music, 
in  purity  of  style,  characteristic  proprieties  in  the  personages, 
and  judicious  calculation  of  the  length  or  shortness  of  the 
music  for  the  scene.  These  indispensable  qualities  of  an  opera 
to  which  we  would  give  the  appellation  classic,  I had  however 
not  expected,  as  we  do  not  at  all  miss  them  in  an  Italian 
opera.  One  is  accustomed  to  have  the  same  person  sing  al- 
ternately in  the  tragic  and  comic  style,  and  to  hear  from  a 
peasant  girl  the  same  pompous  vocal  ornamentation  as  from 
a queen  or  a heroine,  and  to  hear  one  of  the  persons  performing 
sing  alone,  for  a quarter  of  an  hour  at  a time,  in  situations 
of  the  most  impassioned  kind,  while  the  others  walk  about  in 
the  back-ground,  or  partly  behind  the  scenes,  and  chat  and 
laugh  with  their  acquaintances.  But  I did  indeed  expect  quali- 
ties which  should  distinguish  Rossini's  work  above  that  of  his 
colleagues  — ■ novelty  of  ideas,  for  instance;  purity  of  har- 
mony, etc.;  but  of  all  these  I found  but  little.  What  the 
Italians  consider  new  in  Rossini's  operas  is  not  new  to  us; 
for  they  consist  of  ideas  and  modulations  for  the  most  part 
long  since  known  in  Germany ; for  instance  the  appoggiatura  in 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


287 


the  bass  at  the  beginning  of  the  much  - admired  duett  in  the 
first  act: 


which  the  musicians  in  Florence  boasted  of  to  me  as  something 
quite  new,  and  discovered  by  Bossini.  In  Milan,  where  I heard 
the  same  duet  at  a concert,  it  was  probably  found  too  hard, 
and  the  fifth  and  sixth  measures  were  thus  changed: 


Or  the  following  modulation,  also,  at  the  finale  of  the  first  act: 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


288 


Purity  of  harmony  is  not  to  be  found  in  him  any  more 
than  in  any  other  modern  Italian  composer;  and  I have  heard 
many  sequences  of  quints  like  the  following: 


But  in  attention  to  the  rhythm  and  in  the  complete  use 
he  makes  of  the  orchestra,  he  distinguishes  himself  above  his 
countrymen. 

The  instrumentation,  however,  as  compared  with  ours, 
first  introduced  by  Mozart , is  still  very  meagre,  and  the  Ita- 
lians in  that  still  cling  too  much  to  the  old.  The  viols  and 
bassoons  almost  always  go  through  the  whole  opera  col  Basso, 
and  the  clarinets  and  hautboys  in  Unisono . As  in  most  Ita- 
lian operas  with  from  six  to  eight  contra-basses  there  is  only 
one  violincello,  and  usually  not  even  a good  one,  they  as  yet 
know  nothing  here  of  the  (since  Mozart's  day)  frequent  use  of 
the  violincello  for  middle  voices,  which,  skilfully  brought  in, 
has  such  a splendid  effect;  and  they  are  far  behind  the  Ger- 
mans in  the  knowledge  of  how  to  get  the  best  effect  from  the 
wind  instruments.  But  what  surprised  me  most,  was  to  hear 
sometimes  in  these  operas  a very  uneven  cantabile,  while  a 
flowing  and  for  the  voice  grateful  and  well  arranged  cantabile 
is  the  only  praise-worthy  quality  of  the  modern  Italian  operatic 
music,  and  must  compensate  for  all  the  deficiencies  and  faults. 
The  two  following  passages  struck  me  most;  the  first  in  an 
aria  of  the  prima  donna,  the  second,  in  the  first  finale,  where 
it  frequently  recurs: 


Digitized  by  Google 


289 


Both  these  passages  are  not  only  unsingable  but  exceed- 
ingly insipid,  and  the  second  especially,  from  the  somewhat 
slow  movement  and  its  frequent  recurrence,  is  wholly  un- 
bearable. 

Among  the  singers  in  this  opera,  Madame  Georgi;  the 
prima  donna,  is  the  only  remarkable  one.  She  has  a full, 


powerful  voice  of  rare  compass,  from 


part  is  written  for  a contralto,  and  she  can  therefore  exhibit 
her  high  notes  in  the  fiwituri  only;  if  she  possesses  equal 
power  in  the  low  notes  a deep  soprano  part  would  suit  her  much 
better.  Like  almost  every  singer  we  have  yet  heard  in  Italy  she 
has  the  vice  of  ornamenting  too  much,  and  does  not  know  how  to 
derive  all  the  advantage  she  might  from  her  splendid  voice.  One 
hears  very  plainly,  moreover,  that  she  does  not  draw  in  the 
least  upon  her  own  spontaneous  feeling  and  taste,  but  everything 
has  been  studied;  so  that  her  fiorituri,  which  are  repeated 
every  evening,  note  for  note,  become  so  wearisome  that  one 
cannot  hear  her  again  without  repugnance.  She  was  formerly 
a dillettante,  and  only  now  sings  in  the  third  theatre;  but 
nevertheless  she  is  already  an  excellent  actress. 

The  ballet,  which  is  given  every  evening  between  the  two 

8POHB,  Autobiography.  I.  jg 


Digitized  by  Google 


290 


acts  of  the  opera,  is  the  most  splendid  of  any  I have  ever  yet 
seen.  I think  it  is  called  “The  Destruction  of  the  Western 
Empire,”  and  is  especially  remarkable  for  the  constant  intro- 
duction of  great  masses  of  persons  on  the  stage  in  full  ac- 
tivity who  form  the  boldest  and  most  surprising  groups.  It 
has  been  studied  with  extraordinary  correctness,  and  is  per- 
formed every  evening  with  the  same  precision.  At  the  end 
a cavalry  engagement  was  represented,  which  however  always 
looks  somewhat  stiff  and  awkward. 


November,  8. 

Last  evening  our  concert  took  place  in  the  theatre  della 
Pergola . The  Grand-duke,  to  whom  I brought  a letter  from 
his  brother  Rudolph , and  who  has  received  me  several  times 
very  graciously  at  his  residence,  honoured  it  with  his  presence, 
accompanied  by  his  whole  family.  The  small  though  select  audi- 
tory was  very  animated,  and  after  having  greeted  the  Grand- 
duke  with  the  usual  recognitions,  were  not  restrained  from  a 
loud  expression  of  applause  of  my  performances.  The  music 
had  a very  good  effect  in  the  spacious  and  sonorous  theatre; 
but  the  accompaniment  was  not  of  the  best.  — To-day  I 
have  received  a great  number  of  invitations  to  give  a second 
concert  next  week,  from  which  I am  promised  a better  result. 
I shall  make  the  venture,  although  the  Grand-duke,  who  goes 
to-morrow  to  Pisa  to  meet  his  brother  Rainer , will  not  be 
here.  Yesterday’s  concert,  exclusive  of  the  Archduke’s  present 
to  me,  did  not  bring  in  more  than  the  evening’s  expenses, 
which  were,  as  they  always  are,  very  considerable;  the  price 
of  admission  being  only  three  paoli,  and  all  disposition  over 
the  sale  of  a single  box  being  again  denied  me.  A very 
favorable  notice  of  my  concert  appeared  this  afternoon  in  the 
newspaper. 


November,  12. 

As  we  have  now  been  several  times  to  the  picture-gallery, 
and  attentively  observed  all  that  it  contains,  I will  commit 


Digitized  by 


Google 


291 


to  paper  a few  words,  not  upon  the  truly  splendid  works  of  art 
which  it  contains,  for  they  have  already  been  frequently  and  well 
described,  but  also  the  expression  of  the  impression  which  they 
made  upon  me.  I must  first  of  all  give  due  praise  to  the  admir- 
able custom,  one  by  no  means  usual  in  Italy,  of  admitting  the 
public  to  the  gallery  free.  At  the  entrance  one  finds  a notice  in 
four  or  five  languages,  that  the  guardians  of  the  gallery  are 
forbidden  under  the  penalty  of  the  loss  of  their  situation,  to 
take  the  smallest  present.  Though  perhaps  they  may  not 
altogether  adhere  too  strictly  to  this  injunction,  one  is  at  least 
fully  secured  from  the  importunate  begging,  with  which  one  is 
everywhere  pursued  in  Italy,  and  in  this  place,  made  sacred 
by  art,  gives  oneself  peacefully  up  to  the  enjoyment. 

To  assist  my  memory  hereafter  I have  sketched  a plan 
of  the  gallery  and  marked  the  . position  where  the  works  of 
art  stand  which  made  the  greatest  impression  upon  me.  As 
I never  make  use  either  of  a guide  or  a book  to  find  the  ob- 
jects worthy  of  observation  in  a city  (I  am  averse  to  all  dic- 
tation as  what  I should  admire,  and  never  permit  myself  to  be 
deprived  of  the  pleasure  of  finding  for  myself  the  works  of 
art  in  a gallery  which  are  known  to  me  by  reputation),  there- 
fore it  is  very  possible  that  I have  erred  in  many  instances. 
On  the  first  day  I looked  for  a long  time  and  with  attention 
at  the  works  of  art  which  are  in  the  gallery  proper,  before 
the  apartments  were  opened  in  which  the  most  choice  are  situ- 
ated. I am  even  now  glad  I did  so,  as  afterwards,  when 
I had  seen  the  most  perfect  specimens  of  art,  I could  never 
again  remain  for  any  length  of  time  with  the  works  exhibited 
in  the  gallery.  One  exception  to  this  was  the  group  of  the 
Laocoon , which  I always  contemplated  with  renewed  admir- 
ation. When  the  sanctuary  of  art  was  thrown  open  we  first 
beheld  the  celebrated  Medicean  Venus,  whose  perfect  and  sur- 
passingly beautiful  form  is  yet  more  thrown  out  by  the  large 
curtain  of  red- velvet  suspended  behind  her.  In  the  same 
rotunda  with  her  are  the  greatest  master-pieces  ever  produced 

19* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


292 


by  the  chisel  and  by  the  brush:  the  Apollo  del  Belvedere* 
and  Raphael's  St.  John.  To  contemplate  and  admire  in  these 
three  works  of  art  the  highest  ideal  of  human  beauty  is 
an  enjoyment  quite  peculiar  in  its  kind.  After  reiterated 
contemplation  and  long  hesitation  I gave  the  palm  for  beauty 
to  the  St.  John.  Any  thing  more  charming  and  at  the  same 
time  more  noble  than  the  whole  form  of  this  Youth  cannot 
be  imagined  by  the  most  lively  fancy.  What  may  have  con- 
tributed somewhat  to  this  decision  on  my  part  is  the  circum- 
stance that  the  Apollo  as  well  as  the  Venus  are  of  a three- 
quarter -life  size,  a proportion  which  seems  to  be  not  quite 
happily  chosen,  as  the  figures  being  so  nearly  the  real  size  of 
life,  always  appear  to  be  wanting  in  something,  which,  if  they 
were  smaller,  would  not  be  the  case.  ' The  Apollo  has  never- 
theless a rather  too  feminine  beauty,  which  not  I alone,  but 
my  wife  also  and  several  other  persons  present  remarked.  In 
this  apartment  are  numerous  other  master-pieces,  among  which 
a head  by  Raphael , the  Venus  of  Titian;  and  a group  of  gla- 
diators in  marble,  excited  most  our  admiration.  Of  the  pic- 
tures arranged  according  to  the  schools  in  the  side  apartments, 
the  head  of  a female,  by  Carlo  Dolce , pleased  me  most;  but 
one  soon  returns  again  to  the  gems  of  the  whole  collection. 
On  the  other  side  of  the  building,  in  two  apartments,  is  the 
collection  of  Bronzes,  among  which  the  celebrated  flying  Mer- 
cury excites  the  most  admiration.  In  another  saloon  is  a col- 
lection of  Niobes,  among  which  are  some  beautiful  works  of 
art.  Besides  these  we  saw  innumerable  portraits  of  celebrated 
masters,  for  the  most  part  painted  by  themselves. 

November  13. 

Behind  the  residence  of  the  Grand-duke  is  a large  gar- 
den called,  I know  not  why,  Boboli.  It  is  open  to  all  on  Sun- 
days and  Fridays.  Last  Sunday  we  went  there  for  the  second 
time,  and  afterwards  heard  mass  in  the  Court-chapel.  The 

* This  is  the  Apollino.  Spohr  himself  corrects  this  error  at  a sub- 
sequent part  of  his  narrative. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


293 


Grand- duke,  who  has  a collection  of  between  three  and  four- 
hundred  masses  of  celebrated  masters  of  every  period,  had 
given  out  upon  this  occasion  one  of  Michael  Haydn's  for 
performance;  it  was  executed  with  tolerable  precision,  but  it 
was  found  necessary  to  play  a very  simple  solo  for  the  tenor- 
trumpet  upon  the  viol.  The  musicians  asked  me  afterwards 
whether  we  had  players  on  the  trumpet  in  Germany  who  could 
execute  such  soli  as  that! 

Upon  our  way  back  our  hired  lacquey  pointed  out  to  us 
the  covered  passage  leadiug  from  the  Grand-ducal  residence 
to  the  water  side,  which  passes  through  several  streets  at  a 
considerable  height,  and  after  being  carried  across  the  river 
Arno  over  one  of  the  bridges,  and  through  a few  more  streets, 
abuts  at  the  government  buildings  in  which  the  gallery  is 
also  situated.  This  gallery,  which  is  at  least  a quarter  of  an 
hour’s  walk  in  length,  is  used  by  the  Grand-duke  when  in  wet 
weather  he  attends  the  sittings  of  the  privy  council. 

November  15. 

Our  concert  yesterday  was  not  better  attended  than  the 
first  and  therefore  brought  in  nothing.  I am  now  convinced 
that  an  instrumental-musician,  even  under  the  most  favourable 
circumstances,  can  earn  nothing  in  Florence;  for  in  the  first 
place  the  Italians  esteem  and  like  instrumental  music  too  little, 
and  in  the  second  the  price  of  admission  is  much  too  low  in 
proportion  to  the  considerable  expenses.  I must  here  observe, 
as  somewhat  worthy  of  note,  that  one  part  of  the  orchestra, 
namely,  all  the  violinists,  took  no  payment,  which  for  people 
who  must  live  from  their  daily  earnings,  and  for  Italians  who, 
wherever  possible,  extort  three  times  the  price  of  every  thing, 
is  certainly  very  astonishing.  For  the  rest,  my  play  was 
received  with  still  greater  applause  yesterday  than  the  first 
time.  Madame  Georgi  sang  exceedingly  well  the  admired  ca- 
vatina (sung  everywhere  in  Italy)  in  Rossini's  “Tancredi,”  with 
the  following  theme: 


Digitized  by  Google 


294 


It  was  again  to  be  deplored,  that  upon  the  return  to 
the  theme  she  overwhelmed  it  with  so  much  ornamentation 
that  one  could  recognise  nothing  of  the  original  song.  Signor 
Sbigoli,  first  tenor  at  the  Pergolo  theatre,  who  had  also  given 
his  assistance  at  the  first  concert,  again  sang  two  airs  in  a 
good  style,  and  with  much  exertion,  but  with  little  voice.  He, 
like  the  singers  in  Venice  and  Milan  who  sang  at  my  con- 
certs, required  payment,  but  was  satisfied  with  the  very  mo- 
derate sum  of  a carolin  for  each  concert. 

This  afternoon  we,  for  a last  excursion,  strolled  out  to  the 
Porta  Romana,  to  see  the  fresco-painting,  so  celebrated  from 
the  circumstance  which  gave  rise  to  it,  and  which  adorns  a 
small  mean-looking  house  there.  The  following  is  related  con- 
cerning it:  The  Medici  had  sent  to  Rome  for  the  most  famed 
masters  of  that  time,  to  paint,  I believe,  the  chapel  al  fresco . 
The  Florentine  painters  first  became  informed  of  this  upon 
the  day  previous  to  the  arrival  of  the  strangers,  and  jealous 
of  the  preference  which  they  had  attained,  they  resolved  at 
least  to  shew  them,  that  they  were  quite  as  well  able  to  ex- 
ecute the  work,  which  they  were  sent  for  to  perform.  They 
combined  their  abilities  therefore,  and  in  one  night,  by  the 
light  of  torches,  painted  this  large  fresco-picture,  of  which  it 
is  true  but  few  traces  now  remain,  but  which  sufficiently  attest 
the  excellence  of  the  work.  As  the  house  on  which  this 
painting  is  executed,  is  so  situated  that  it  must  attract  the  im- 
mediate attention  of  all  persons  entering  at  this  gate,  the  for- 
eign artists  immediately  observed  the  work,  which  had  been 
completed  but  a few  hours  before,  and  as  modesty  was  not 
then  so  rare  among  artists  as  it  is  in  the  present  day,  they 
immediately  turned  back,  and  sent  word  to  the  Medici,  that 
they  could  not  understand  why  they  had  been  written  for, 
since  Florence  produced  artists  who  could  execute  so  admir- 
able a work  of  art  in  the  space  of  a single  night,  as  they 


Digitized  by  Google 


295 


had  beheld.  As  a matter  of  course  the  work  was  then  given 
to  the  Florentines  for  execution. 

We  have  fixed  our  departure  for  to-morrow.  Some 
things  of  note,  such  for  example  as  the  tomb  of  the  Medici, 
which  we  have  not  yet  been  able  to  see,  we  must  defer  until 
our  return  journey. 


Rome,  November  22. 

We  arrived  at  length  last  night,  after  a long  and  tedious 
journey,  in  the  former  capital  of  the  world.  The  journey  was 
rendered  tedious,  first  by  the  slowness  of  our  vetturino,  the 
driver  of  which  had  taken  up,  besides  ourselves,  who  had  hired 
the  interior  of  his  vehicle  for  twelve  Louisd’or  ( inclusive  of  night 
lodgings  and  supper),  three  other  travellers  in  the  so-called  ca- 
briolet, and  therefore  could  only  drive  at  a walking  pace,  secondly, 
by  reason  of  the  raw  weather  and  the  cold,  which  for  Italy  was 
very  great,  and  against  which  so  little  shelter  is  found  at  the 
inns  where  we  stopped  for  the  night,  where  the  windows  and 
doors  are  always  open  a good  hand’s  breadth,  the  floors  of 
stone,  and  the  generally  very  lofty  rooms  not  to  be  warmed 
by  a chimney  fire ; thirdly,  from  the  uninteresting  and  barren 
country  through  which  the  road  passes.  One  has  the  choice 
of  two  roads.  The  one  longer,  but  more  interesting,  by  way 
of  Perugia,  a journey  of  seven  days ; the  other  through  Sienna 
of  six  days.  We  took  the  latter.  As  far  as  Sienna  it  is  not 
without  interest,  and  it  is  a clean  and  a pretty  town,  which 
has  moreover  the  reputation  that  the  purest  Italian  is  spoken 
there.  But  from  there  the  road  runs  through  numerous  barren 
stretches  of  country.  Neither  houses  nor  trees  are  to  be  seen, 
and  now  and  then  only  the  melancholy  testimonials  of  Roman 
justice,  that  is,  high  posts  from  which  are  suspended  the  arms 
and  legs  of  bandits  and  murderers.  How  in  a country  whose 
soil  yields  without  manure  two  harvests,  one  of  corn  and 
the  other  of  maize,  men  should  be  compelled  by  hunger  to 
subsist  by  robberies,  is  to  me  incomprehensible:  but  so  it  is. 
So  long  as  corn  is  in  abundance,  all  the  roads  are  safe,  but 


Digitized  by  Google 


296 


when  hunger  pinches,  the  sternest  severity  is  unavailing. 
During  the  rule  of  the  French  knives  were  forbidden  to  be 
carried  on  the  person  on  pain  of  the  galleys ; if  any  one  drew 
a knife  upon  an  opponent  he  was  treated  as  a murderer  and 
hung  without  mercy.  By  such  measures  the  public  security 
was  soon  re-established  and  for  a long  time  one  heard  of  no 
more  assassinations.  Now,  though  certainly  those  regulations 
still  exist,  they  are  not  rigorously  carried  out:  the  previous 
insecurity  prevails  anew,  and  it  is  not  safe  to  venture  alone 
into  the  more  lonely  streets  of  the  city. 

Before  we  could  drive  to  an  inn,  we  were  obliged  to 
proceed  to  the  custom-house,  where  our  trunks  and  other 
luggage  were  inspected  in  the  closest  manner.  For  my  violon, 
although  it  is  an  old  one  and  for  my  own  use,  I was  obliged 
to  pay  a duty  of  seven  Paoli. 


December  5. 


Allegretto. 


297 


This  is  the  first  music  we  heard  in  Rome,  and  since 
then  have  heard  it  so  frequently,  that  I have  been  enabled  to 
write  it  down  easily.  During  the  time  of  Advent,  when  all 
public  music  is  forbidden,  the  theatres  closed,  and  a real 
deathlike  stillness  prevails,  whole  troops  of  virtuosi  on  the 
bagpipe  come  from  the  Neapolitan  territory,  who  play  first 
before  the  pictures  of  the  Virgin  and  Saints,  and  then  collect  in 
the  houses  and  in  the  streets  a viaticum , or  travelling  penny. 
They  generally  go  in  pairs,  one  playing  the  bagpipe  and  the 
other  the  shepherds-pipe.  The  music  of  all,  with  a few  un- 
important deviations,  is  the  same,  and  is  said  to  have  its 
origin  in  a very  ancient  sacred  melody;  but  from  the  way  in 
which  these  people  now  play  it,  it  sounds  profane  enough. 
Heard  at  a certain  distance  it  nevertheless  does  not  sound 
badly;  the  one  who  plays  the  bagpipe  produces  an  effect 
somewhat  as  though  three  clarinets  were  blown,  he  of  the 
shepherds-pipe  a sound  like  that  of  a coarse  powerful  haut- 
boy. The  purity  of  the  notes  of  the  bag-pipe  and  shepherds- 
pipe  is  very  striking.  Wherever  one  now  goes,  be  the  part 
of  the  city  which  it  may,  one  hears  the  above  music. 

Last  Sunday  Prince  Frederick  of  Gotha  took  me  to  the 
famous  Sestine  Chapel,  where  I for  the  first  time  saw  the  Pope, 
surrounded  by  all  the  Cardinals  in  their  fullest  ecclesiastical 
splendour,  and  heard  his  celebrated  singers  of  the  choir. 
Whether  it  is  that  I am  differently  organized  from  other  tra- 
vellers, or  that  my  expectations  are  always  too  exalted  from 
the  perusal  of  books  of  travel,  neither  the  music,  the  place, 
nor  the  ecclesiastical  ceremony  pleased  me,  or  impressed  me 
with  awe.  The  singers  of  the  choir  were  about  thirty  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


298 


number,  who  comported  themselves  in  a somewhat  off-hand 
and  uncouth  manner.  The  soprani,  for  the  most  part  old  men, 
frequently  sang  false,  and  altogether  the  intonation  was  any- 
thing but  pure.  They  commenced  with  melodies  for  two  voices 
of  very  ancient  date,  which  were  declaimed  by  the  singers  rather 
than  sung.  Then  followed  some  things  for  four  voices,  written 
in  a condensed  style,  and  arranged  for  the  voices  to  fall  in 
like  in  a catch.  The  composition  of  these  seemed  to  me 
very  dignified,  in  the  genuine  old  ecclesiastical  style,  and  well 
calculated  for  the  place.  The  execution  was  correct,  it  is 
true,  but,  as  we  have  said,  too  coarse,  and  not  better  than 
most  of  our  German  choristers  could  have  sung  the  same 
kind  of  thing.  Three  and  four- voiced  soli  interchanged  alter- 
nately with  the  choir;  sometimes  one  heard  also  the  crescendo 
effected  by  the  gradual  and  successive  entry  of  the  voices, 
and  the  diminuendo  produced  by  the  inverse  process,  which  in 
the  celebrated  Miserere  on  Good  Fridays  is  said  to  have  so 
charming  an  effect.  It  had  also  a good  effect  to-day,  but  this 
can  be  equally  obtained  from  any  well -practised  choir.  The 
place  is  indeed  extremely  favorable  to  simple  slow  church 
music,  as  it  is  very  sonorous  and  the  voices  blend  well  with 
one  another;  but  I know  several  churches  in  Germany  — for 
instance  the  castle  chapel  at  Wurzburg  and  the  catholic  church 
at  Dresden  — where  music  sounds  even  better.  I became  also, 
convinced  anew,  that  vocal  and  instrumental  music  combined 
have  a much  finer  effect  than  vocal  music  alone,  which,  after 
all  is  always  somewhat  monotonous,  and,  on  account  of  its 
restricted  limits,  becomes  tedious.  But  in  the  papal  chapel  there 
is  never  any  instrumental  music,  being  contrary  to  ecclesias- 
tical etiquette.  Lastly,  as  far  as  regards  the  ceremonies, 
which,  according  to  the  accounts  of  travellers,  are  on  Good 
Friday  of  so  elevating  a character,  and  increase  immensely  the 
effects  of  the  music,  this  was  by  no  means  the  case  on  Sunday; 
on  the  contrary,  many  things  took  place  which  could  not  but 
appear  ridiculous  to  an  unprejudiced  spectator;  for  instance, 
the  frequently  repeated  removal,  as  though  at  the  word  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


299 


command,  of  the  little  red  caps  of  the  cardinals,  the  clumsy 
awkwardness  of  several  of  their  attendants  when  carrying  after 
them  their  long  violet- coloured  trains,  and  on  handing  to  them 
and  again  taking  off  their  caps,  etc.  I also  felt  indignant  when 
I saw  that  the  priests  who  read  the  mass,  and  the)  preacher, 
before  he  ascended  the  pulpit,  threw  themselves  upon  their 
knees  before  the  Pope  and  kissed  his  red  slipper;  and  how 
every  time  previous  thereto  two  assistants  fell  upon  one  knee, 
spread  out  his  capacious  mantel  and  lifted  his  sacerdotal 
frock  to  enable  him  to  raise  his  foot  for  them  to  kiss.  Neither 
did  any  of  his  assistants  hand  any  thing  to  him,  not  even  his 
pocket  handkerchief,  without  previously  kneeling  before  him. 
What  is  this  but  a degradation  of  humanity? 

The  celebrated  “Last  Judgement”  of  Michael  Angelo , and 
all  the  other  fresco-paintings  which  decorate  the  chapel,  have 
greatly  suffered  and  are  much  blackened  with  smoke.  But  one 
can  still  see  sufficient  of  the  former,  which  covers  the  whole 
wall  behind  the  altar,  to  admire  the  grandeur  of  the  compo- 
sition and  the  masterly  touch  of  the  artist  in  the  execution. 

After  the  mass  the  sacrament  was  presented  to  the  Pope 
and  all  the  Cardinals  in  the  Pauline  Chapel,  which,  illuminated 
by  innumerable  tapers,  presented  when  first  seen  an  imposing 
spectacle.  As  we  got  there  first,  we  heard  the  chaunt  of  the 
choristers  who  walked  at  the  head  of  the  procession,  approach 
by  degrees  nearer  and  nearer,  which  produced  a fine  crescendo . 
A silent  prayer,  during  which  all  present  remained  kneeling, 
here  closed  the  ceremony. 

In  Rome  there  are  two  private  musical  reunions:  one, 
a kind  of  singing  academy,  takes  place  every  Thursday  at 
the  house  of  its  institutor,  Sirletti , a teacher  of  singing  and 
of  the  piano -forte.  From  thirty  to  five -and -thirty  singers, 
mostly  dilettanti,  meet  here,  some  of  whom  have  very  fine 
voices,  as,  for  example,  Madame  Vera  (nee  Hdser)  and  the 
tenor,  Signor  Moncade . Up  till  now  we  have  been  there 
twice.  The  first  day,  in  compliment  to  us  Germans,  they 
gave  Mozart's  Requiem,  and  that  very  powerfully  and  purely; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


V 


— 300  — 

all  the  soli  and  the  quartet  were  especially  well  sung.  Ma- 
dame Vera  with  her  splendid  sonorous  organ,  her  firm  into- 
nation, and  her  fine  management  of  the  voice,  sang  her  part 
in  an  irreproachable  manner.  The  grand  and  very  difficult 
fugue  was  in  particular  sung  purely  and  well.  The  only 
disturbing  influence  upon  the  execution,  which  otherwise  would 
have  afforded  us  great  enjoyment,  was  signor  SirUtti's  piano- 
forte accompaniment  from  the  score.  It  is  true  we  ought 
not  to  have  expected  better;  for  where  should  an  Italian 
teacher  of  singing  and  pianoforte  get  a knowledge  of  harmony 
sufficient  to  read  and  play  correctly  a score  of  Mozart's? 
Rut  as  his  deep  (!)  knowledge  of  harmony  had  been  greatly 
extolled  to  me  previously,  I had  certainly  expected  something 
better.  He  struck  some  such  barbarous  harmonies  at  times, 
that,  could  Mozart  have  heard  him,  he  would  have  turned  round 
in  his  grave.  After  the  Requiem  they  sang  a piece  of  Han- 
del's hitherto  unknown  to  me,  and,  for  the  finale,  the  Halleluja; 
the  latter  in  particular  was  powerfully  and  purely  sung. 

On  the  previous  Thursday  they  had  sung  some  of  Mar- 
cello's Psalms,  for  two  and  three  voices.  These  Psalms,  which 
the  Italians  consider  classic  master-pieces,  and  of  which  some 
years  since  a fine  edition  was  published  with  long  commen- 
taries on  the  particular  beauties  of  each  Psalm,  pleased  me 
very  well,  but  I did  not  find  anything  so  very  particular  in 
them;  on  the  contrary,  I am  persuaded,  although  I am  not 
very  familiar  with  the  German  works  in  this  style,  that  we 
have  compositions  of  the  kind  by  Bach  and  others  which  are 
greatly  superior  to  them.  They  appear  to  me,  particularly  in 
the  form,  to  have  been  carelessly  constructed,  they  deviate  fre- 
quently for  a length  of  time  from  the  chief  key,  and  then  close 
immediately  after  the  return  to  the  tonic  in  a very  unsatisfactory 
manner.  Those  for  three  voices  begin  generally  with  soprano 
and  tenor,  and  the  bass  first  enters  with  the  repeat;  but  this 
third  voice  was  never  essential,  and  always  sounded  like  an 
orchestral  fundamental  bass ; there  were  however  some  among 
them  in  which  the  voices  took  up  their  parts  as  in  a canon» 


Digitized  by  Google 


301 


and  these  were  very  remarkable.  Nevertheless,  on  the  whole, 
the  part -writing  and  modulation  were  very  monotonous,  and 
the  same  intrate  and  appoggiaturas  recurred  in  all.  Signor 
Sirletti’s  accompaniment  was  again  also  very  disturbing  in 
these  Psalms,  and  particularly  unpleasant  to  me  was  an  im- 
purity of  some  of  the  full  chords,  which  in  these  simple  three- 
voiced things  was  still  more  out  of  place.  With  that,  like 
all  Italians  whom  I have  yet  heard  accompany,  he  has  the 
execrable  fashion  practice  of  doubling  the  bass  notes  with  the 
right  hand,  which  with  some  accords,  for  instance  6/s  accords, 
sounds  quite  unbearable  with  the  leading  tone.  That  more- 
over, by  this  method  octaves  must  arise  in  the  solution,  does 
not  appear  to  trouble  the  Signori,  nor  are  their  ears  offended 
by  it.  To  me  it  was  also  exceedingly  displeasing  that  some 
Germans  who  were  present  seemed  so  much  delighted.  What 
is  the  meaning  of  these  grimaces?  The  Italians  really  might 
be  induced  to  believe  that  we  have  never  heard  any  thing  so 
good  in  Germany.  When  will  Germans  cease  to  be  the  blind 
admirers  and  the  apes  of  foreigners! 

The  other  private  musical  reunion  takes  place  every  Mon- 
day, at  the  home  of  Signor  Ruffini , the  proprietor  of  the  great 
manufactory  of  strings  for  instruments.  Here  operas  are  exe- 
cuted also  by  dilettanti  as  concert  music,  before  an  auditory 
of  from  200  to  250  persons.  The  singers  stand  upon  a slightly 
raised  platform,  and  the  orchestra,  consisting  of  four  violins, 
viol,  violincello,  double  bass,  two  clarinets,  two  horns,  and  a 
bassoon,  is  disposed  round  them  in  a semi- circle  on  the  level 
floor.  Last  Monday,  when  Prince  Frederick  took  us  there,  an 
old  opera  buffo  of  Paisiello  was  given.  The  selection  was  cer- 
tainly not  the  best  concert  music.  The  music  of  a comic  opera 
can  alone  be  produced  with  the  desired  effect  upon  the  stage, 
combined  with  the  proper  action  which  belongs  to  it;  but 
apart  from  that,  this  one  appeared  to  me  somewhat  insipid. 
The  execution  both  on  the  part  of  the  singers  and  the  orches- 
tra, was  equally  bad ; Signor  Moncade,  with  his  splendid  tenor 
voice,  was  the  only  one  worthy  of  remark.  Between  the  two  acts 


Digitized  by 


Google 


302 


a dilettante  executed  the  first  Allegro  of  a clarinet  concerto  with 
much  ability  and  a tolerably  good  tone,  but  without  the  least 
taste.  He  was  another  illustration  of  a remark  I have  already 
made,  that  Italian  virtuosi  and  dilettanti  direct  their  whole 
attention  to  the  acquirement  of  mechanical  skill,  but  as  far 
as  regards  a tasteful  style  of  execution,  they  form  themselves 
very  little  after  the  good  models  which  their  best  singers  might 
be  to  them ; while  our  German  instrumentalists  generally  pos- 
sess a very  cultivated  style  and  much  feeling,  which,  without 
taking  pattern  of  any  one,  they  must  find  in  themselves. 

December  7. 

As  Rome,  like  other  Italian  cities,  offers  us  no  great  mu- 
sical treats  (and  even  less  than  usual,  at  the  present  moment, 
as  all  the  theatres  are  closed),  we  must,  like  all  other  travellers, 
content  ourselves  with  the  creations  of  architecture,  painting, 
and  sculpture  of  the  former  flourishing  period  of  Italian  art. 
Of  these  certainly  there  is  a wealth  such  as  is  not  to  be  found 
in  any  other  city  in  the  world.  Wherever  one  goes  — in 
the  streets,  in  the  squares,  palaces,  churches,  and  gardens  — 
one  sees  everywhere  columns,  obelisks,  statues,  bas-reliefs  and 
paintings.  We  first  strolled  through  all  the  streets,  in  order 
to  familiarise  ourselves  with  the  remains  of  ancient  Roman 
architecture.  The  venerable  Pantheon,  the  Forum  Romanum 
with  its  triumphal  arches  and  columns,  and  particularly  the 
Colosseum,  filled  us  with  wonder  and  admiration.  We  then 
ascended  the  Capitol , saw  the  Tarpeian  rock  and  a thousand 
other  places  and  objects  made  interesting  by  Roman  history. 

On  the  following  day  we  visited  the  immortal  Michael 
Angelo's  master-piece,  the  church  of  St.  Peter.  Several  tra- 
vellers whose  expectations  of  this  gigantic  structure  from  their 
point  of  view  had  not  been  satisfied,  had  much  depressed  mine, 
and  from  that  circumstance  perhaps  it  made  a powerful  im- 
pression upon  me.  The  open  space  before  the  church,  with 
the  semi-circular  colonnades,  the  obelisk  and  the  two  stupen- 
dous fountains  are  of  themselves  of  imposing  grandeur.  But 


Digitized  by  foozle 


303 


on  entering  the  interior  of  the  church,  one  is  seized  with  won- 
der and  admiration  at  the  magnificence  of  the  decorations. 
Without  being  overloaded,  it  contains  such  wealth  in  mosaic  pic- 
tures, statues,  and  bas-reliefs,  that  it  would  occupy  weeks  to 
examine  all  the  separate  works  of  art.  As  all  these  things  are 
in  the  most  harmonious  relation  and  proportion  to  each  other, 
and  are  as  colossal  as  the  whole  structure  itself,  one  is  greatly 
deceived  at  first  in  regard  to  the  size  of  the  church.  But  upon 
contemplating  more  nearly  the  separate  objects,  one  finds,  for 
instance,  that  the  little  angels  which  hold  the  basins  for  holy- 
water,  when  seen  closer,  are  taller  than  the  tallest  Prussian 
grenadier;  and  one  finds  the  assertions  of  the  architects  who 
have  taken  all  the  dimensions  of  the  building,  more  credit- 
able, that,  for  instance,  the  cathedral  of  Strasburg  could  con- 
veniently stand  under  the  dome  without  the  top  of  the  tower 
reaching  higher  than  into  the  lantern.  But  it  is  necessary 
to  ascend  into  the  interior  of  the  lantern  itself  to  convince 
oneself  of  the  correctness  of  the  other  calculations,  viz.,  that  the 
pen  of  St.  Peter  is  eight  feet  long,  that  four  men  abreast  can 
conveniently  walk  round  upon  the  cornice,  etc.  etc. 

From  the  church  we  went  to  the  museum  of  the  Vatican. 
The  riches  it  contains  in  treasures  of  art  and  antiquities,  and 
the  size  and  splendour  of  the  place,  surpass  even  the  most 
exalted  expectations.  One  first  enters  a long  gallery  on  both 
sides  of  which  the  walls  are  encrusted  with  ancient  Roman  in- 
scriptions and  sepulchral  stones,  which  had  but  little  interest 
for  us.  We  then  came  into  a second  gallery,  in  which  are 
statues,  busts,  and  fragments  of  sculpture  innumerable.  We 
then  entered  the  famed  Belvedere,  where  all  round  a circular 
open  court,  in  the  centre  of  which  is  a fountain,  a number  of 
niches,  apartments,  and  saloons  contain  the  most  precious  works 
of  ancient  and  modern  art.  We  first  saw  in  one  of  the  niches 
the  celebrated  Apollo  of  Belvedere , whose  form  is  still  con- 
sidered the  beau  ideal  of  manly  vigour  and  beauty.  By  a mis- 
take for  which  I may  be  readily  pardoned,  since  as  I have  said 
I never  make  use  either  of  a guide  or  book,  I had  taken  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


304 


somewhat  feminine  figure  in  the  gallery  at  Florence  for  the 
universally  admired  Apollo  of  Belvedere.  That  statue,  which 
is  also  of  extreme  artistic  beauty,  is,  as  I am  now  informed 
called  the  Apollino.  In  a second  niche  we  saw  the  celebrated 
group  of  Laokoon  and  his  sons;  in  a third,  three  master-pieces 
of  Canova , a Perseus  and  two  Roman  gladiators.  The  Per- 
seus is  a wonderfully  beautiful  figure,  but  evidently  imitated 
from  the  Apollo;  for  the  head  as  well  as  the  position  of  the 
body  and  of  the  mantle  are  strikingly  similar.  One  of  the 
gladiators  is  said  to  resemble  more  an  English  prize-fighter 
than  a Roman  gladiator;  at  least  such  is  the  opinion  of  the 
pupils  and  partisans  of  Thonvaldsen,  who  cannot  forgive  Ca- 
nova his  certainly  very  blamable  vanity,  that  he  should  have 
placed  his  work,  the  only  one  of  a modern  in  a museum  of  an- 
tiques. Nevertheless,  if  one  judges  without  reference  to  persons, 
it  must  be  admitted  that  in  Perseus  he  has  produced  a splen- 
did work  of  art,  and  that  there  are  hundreds  of  antiquities  in 
the  museum  which  are  not  equal  to  it  in  artistic  beauty. 

In  one  apartment  there  is  a great  number  of  animals,  single 
and  in  groups,  in  marble  and  other  yet  more  costly  and  rare 
varieties  of  stone,  of  the  most  perfect  execution.  I could  not 
give  the  preference  to  any  one  of  them  without  disparaging 
the  others.  In  other  apartments  are  vases  of  immense  size, 
of  Egyptian  granite  and  porphyry,  cups,  fountains  and  sar- 
cophages  with  bas-reliefs,  arabesques  and  other  ornaments,  as 
well  as  statues  of  all  sizes.  A two -wheeled  Roman  chariot, 
such  as  were  used  in  chariot  races,  with  two  incomparably 
beautiful  horses,  greatly  pleased  us.  The  magnificence  of  the 
saloons,  rotundi,  apartments,  and  staircases  exceeds  anything 
we  have  ever  seen.  The  floor  consists  almost  wholly  of  an- 
cient mosaics,  * and  the  ceilings  are  decorated  with  the  most 
splendid  fresco-paintings. 

From  the  Belvedere  two  handsome  staircases  then  lead 
one  story  higher  up  to  a long  gallery.  One  then  enters  an 
apartment  in  which  the  tapestries  are  hung  which  were  worked 
after  the  drawings  of  Raphael.  As  is  natural  to  suppose,  not 


Digitized  by  foozle 


305 


only  the  colours  are  said  to  be  bad,  as  is  usual  with  all  ta- 
pestries, but  the  drawing  is  also  defective,  so  that  connoisseurs 
in  art  esteem  them  but  little.  In  the  composition  and  through- 
out the  grouping,  nevertheless,  the  spirit  of  Raphael  is  visible. 

Now  come  the  celebrated  “Stanzi”  of  Raphael , which  are 
considered  by  painters  and  connoisseurs  in  art  as  the  most  costly 
and  beautiful,  not  only  in  Rome,  but  in  the  whole  world.  One 
of  these  apartments  he  finished  entirely  himself;  in  the  others 
only  some  of  the  figures  are  of  his  execution;  the  rest  were 
painted  by  his  pupils  and  friends  after  his  drawings  and  under 
his  eye.  The  paintings  are  in  much  better  preservation  than 
those  in  the  Sixtine  chapel  and,  with  the  care  which  is  now 
taken  of  them,  they  may  for  centuries  to  come  attract  the  ad- 
miration of  connoisseurs.  It  is  nevertheless  a sad  reflection  that 
some  of  the  most  precious  things  produced  by  the  genius  and 
pencil  of  Raphael  are  here  adherent  to  the  walls,  and  must 
perish  with  them.  It  is  therefore  fortunate  that  these  pain- 
tings have  been  and  are  so  frequently  copied  and  engraved,  that 
something  of  them  will  yet  remain  when  the  originals  shall  be 
no  more.  But  this  must  not  be  permitted  to  be  done  in  the 
way  resorted  to  by  the  young  Parisian  academicians,  who  stick 
their  tracing  paper  upon  the  paintings  with  wax  or  even  fasten 
it  on  with  nails,  in  order  to  copy  the  contours,  by  which  pro- 
ceeding a quantity  of  the  lime  cement  has  already  crumbled 
away  from  one  of  the  walls.  An  iron  rail  is  now  put  up  round 
the  apartments,  so  that  one  can  no  longer  approach  close  to  the 
walls.  The  passages  from  these  apartments  lead  to  the  “Logge” 
of  Raphael , by  which  is  understood  the  arched  galleries  outside 
the  buildings.  Those  decorated  by  that  master  himself  are  now 
enclosed  by  glazed  windows  to  shield  them  from  the  destructive 
effects  of  the  weather,  the  rest  are  open.  In  these  “logge” 
there  are  but  four  small  paintings  from  his  own  hand ; all  the 
rest  are  painted  by  others  after  his  drawings.  In  a niche  at 
the  end  of  the  gallery  stands  a bust  of  Raphael , which  is  said, 
however,  to  be  but  an  indifferent  likeness  of  him. 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  I.  20 


Digitized  by 


Google 


306 


December  9. 

On  a second  visit  which  we  made  yesterday  to  the  mu- 
seum, we  saw  the  room  containing  the  celebrated  oil  paintings 
of  Raphael.  The  finest  of  them  is  without  a doubt  the  Trans- 
figuration, respecting  which  so  much  has  been  written,  and 
disputed.  Connoisseurs  of  art  are  not  agreed  as  to  whether 
the  composition  is  correct  or  defective.  Some  maintain  that 
it  consists  of  two  separate  groups  which  do  not  harmonise  with 
each  other  in  the  least;  others,  on  the  contrary,  say  that  every 
part  is  in  the  most  perfect  and  beautiful  accord.  Without 
troubling  ourself  with  the  contentions  of  the  aesthetics,  which 
was  renewed  by  two  persons  in  our  presence,  we  gave  our- 
selves up  to  the  enjoyment  of  its  contemplation.  It  is  ex- 
tremely interesting  to  see  here  three  paintings  of  Raphael  of 
different  periods  of  his  life  in  close  proximity  to  each  other. 
The  eldest,  or  that  of  his  youthful  days,  hangs  by  the  side 
of  one  by  his  master  Perugitw,  and  is  painted  wholly  in  his 
style,  with  the  same  hardness  of  outline  and  the  same  formal, 
almost  symmetrical  grouping.  The  one  of  the  middle  period 
(a  Madonna  wdth  the  child,  and  some  others  figures,  resembling 
very  much  the  painting  at  Dresden  in  the  grouping)  evinces 
his  own  genius  enfranchised  from  the  form  of  his  teacher.  In 
the  third,  the  “Transfiguration,”  his  last  important  work,  we 
see  the  fully  developed  artist. 


December  12. 

As  we  live  in  a couple  of  rooms  which  cannot  be  heated, 
we  have  suffered  somewhat  from  cold  the  last  eight  days,  on 
account  of  the  Tramontana,  or  north  wind,  which  has  not  ceased 
to  blow  all  that  time;  but  although  we  have  had  hoar-frost 
a few  times  in  Rome,  we  have  had  no  ice  yet,  neither  has  it 
snowed.  When  we  rose  this  morning,  we  found  that  the  out- 
ride of  our  window  was  dim  with  moisture,  and  on  opening 
it  a warm  moist  air  blew  in ; while  the  weathercocks  informed 
us  that  the  Sirocco  (south  wind)  was  blowing.  It  now  soon  be- 
came overcast,  and  this  afternoon  it  is  raining.  Generally,  how- 


Digitized  by  Google 


307 


ever,  the  Tramontana  brings  bright  settled  weather.  As  Rome 
is  very  damp  and  dirty,  one  soon  longs  for  the  return  of  that 
wind,  and  is  better  content  with  a little  cold  than  with  the 
unwholesome  moisture.  In  the  spring  of  the  year  especially, 
when  it  begins  to  grow  warm,  this  moisture  is  said  to  be  quite 
unbearable,  and  to  engender  dangerous  fevers,  particularly  on 
the  other  side  of  the  Tiber,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  Vatican, 
where  many  a stranger,  who  has  taken  up  his  residence  there  on 
account  of  the  cheaper  rate  of  the  lodging,  has  found  a grave. 
In  the  summer  months  especially  Rome  must  be  very  unhealthy, 
the  air  being  charged  with  the  exhalations  from  the  dead  bodies, 
which,  according  to  ancient  custom,  are  here  all  deposited  in  the 
vaults  of  the  churches.  Every  time  one  of  these  vaults  is  opened, 
which  takes  place  almost  every  day,  a stench  rushes  out  which 
penetrates  into  the  interior  of  the  very  palaces  of  the  living. 
At  the  time  of  the  domination  of  the  French  the  dead  were 
buried  outside  the  city,  but  no  sooner  was  the  papal  rule  re- 
stored, than  that  wholesome  regulation  was  discontinued.  No 
corpse  is  permitted  to  remain  unburied  longer  than  twenty- 
four  hours,  and  accordingly  the  body  of  any  one  deceased  is 
laid  upon  a bier,  some  eight  or  ten  hours  only  after  the  breath 
is  out  of  it,  and  carried  with  uncovered  head,  breast,  and  feet, 
in  broad  daylight,  through  the  street  to  the  church,  and  set 
down  before  the  altar,  when  if  the  estate  is  sufficient  to  pay 
the  expenses,  a mass  for  the  dead  is  read,  and  the  body  is 
thrown  uncoffined  through  one  of  the  openings  of  the  vaults. 
That  many  only  apparently  dead  are  in  this  manner  buried 
with  the  rest,  may  be  readily  imagined ; and  a few  years  ago 
such  a case  actually  occured.  A poor  man,  who  a few  hours 
after  his  apparent  death  had  been  thrown  into  the  vault,  was 
aroused  by  the  fall  and  passed  two  fearful  days  among  the 
half- decomposed  bodies,  when  fortunately  the  chief  entrance 
to  the  vault  was  opened  in  order  to  clear  it  out,  and  the  poor 
fellow  was  rescued  and  is  still  living. 

In  no  city  in  the  world,  I think,  is  the  contrast  so  striking 
between  the  most  luxurious  splendour  and  the  most  abject 

20* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


308 


misery  as  here.  On  the  marble  steps  of  the  palaces,  among 
the  statues  for  which  thousands  have  been  paid,  near  the  al- 
tars of  the  churches  which  are  laden  with  golden  ornaments 
and  utensils  — everywhere,  in  fact,  one  sees  half-starved  men- 
dicants lying,  who  moan  for  bread,  and  gnaw  the  stumps  of 
cabbages  or  the  peel  of  lemons,  which  they  have  picked  out  of 
the  gutter.  At  first  I thought  this  a trick  merely  to  excite 
the  compassion  of  strangers ; but  I became  convinced  afterwards 
that  many  of  the  poor  must  for  days  subsist  on  such  horrid 
food,  or  perish  with  hunger.  The  Romans  are  accustomed  to 
see  this  misery  from  their  youth,  and  seldom  give  alms  (ex- 
cept they  drop  it  into  the  begging-box  of  some  well-fed  monk 
collecting  for  his  monastery),  and  strangers  soon  become  har- 
dened to  pity,  when  they  find  that  as  soon  as  they  have  given 
something  to  one  beggar,  they  are  immediately  surrounded  by 
twenty  others.  It  is  true  there  are  many  among  them  who  beg 
from  sheer  idleness,  but  there  are  many  also  who  are  quite 
unable  to  work  for  a livelihood.  In  this  respect  also  I admire 
my  native  country,  where  every  pauper  has  at  least  potatoes 
and  bread,  and  a case  of  one  dying  of  starvation  in  the  midst 
of  his  richer  fellowmen  is  wholly  unheard  of. 


December  19. 

Last  evening  our  concert  took  place.  As  I had  been  re- 
fused permission  to  give  a public  concert  in  the  theatre  during 
Advent,  I was  obliged  to  make  arrangements  to  give  it  at  a 
private  house,  without  any  public  announcement.  Prince  Pi- 
ornbino  granted  me  an  apartment  for  the  purpose  in  the  Rus- 
poli  palace,  and  Count  Apponyi,  the  Austrian  ambassador,  pro- 
cured for  me  a considerable  number  of  subscribers;  so  that 
this  was  the  first  concert  in  Italy  that  brought  me  a some- 
what considerable  profit.  The  price  of  admission  was  one  Pi- 
aster (nearly  a Laub thaler).  The  orchestra,  composed  of  the 
best  musicians  of  Rome,  was  nevertheless  the  worst  of  all  that 
had  yet  accompanied  me  in  Italy.  The  ignorance,  want  of 
taste,  and  stupid  arrogance  of  these  people  beggars  all  de- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


309 


scription.  Of  nuances  in  piano  and  forte  they  know  absolutely 
nothing.  One  might  let  that  pass,  but  each  individual  makes 
just  what  ornamentation  comes  into  his  head  and  double  strokes 
with  almost  every  tone,  so  that  the  ensemble  resembles  more 
the  noise  of  an  orchestra  tuning  up  than  harmonious  music. 
I certainly  forbade  several  times  every  note  which  did  not  stand 
in  the  score;  but  ornamentation  has  become  so  much  a second 
nature  to  them,  that  they  cannot  desist  from  it.  The  first 
hornist,  for  instance,  blew  once  in  the  Tutti , instead  of  the 
simple  cadence, 


The  Clarinets  blew  perhaps  at  the  same  time 


and  now  if  one  imagines  the  figured  passages  for  the  violins, 
which  the  composer  has  prescribed,  some  conception  may  be 
formed  of  the  bewildering  noise  which  such  an  orchestra  gives 
you  for  music.  With  that,  the  musicians  have  so  little  musi- 
cal taste,  and  are  so  unskilled  in  note-reading,  that  we  nearly 
broke  down  twice.  Here  also,  my  concerto  in  the  form  of 
a vocal-scene  pleased  most,  and  I gained  far  more  applause 
for  the  way  in  which  I played  the  song  parts,  than  for  the 
mastery  of  very  great  difficulties.  A tenor  belonging  to  the 
papal  orchestra,  the  permission  for  whose  co-operation  I had 
obtained  with  great  difficulty,  sang  a duet  with  Mademoiselle 
Funk  of  Dresden,  and  a very  beautiful  air  of  Rossini,  the  best 
of  that  composer  which  I had  yet  heard. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


310 


December  20. 

Last  evening  I was  present  at  a small  private  musical 
performance  at  the  house  of  Count  Apponyi . There  was  much 
good  vocal  music  with  piano  accompaniment.  The  best  were  a 
duet  from  a “Passione”  by  Paisiello , most  charmingly  sung  by 
Madame  Hdser  and  the  Countess  Apponyi ; an  aria  by  Zinga- 
relli  with  chorus,  written  for  Madame  Hdser  and  executed  by 
her  in  the  most  finished  manner;  a duett  of  Rossini's,  sung 
by  Countess  and  Signor  Moncade . Madame  Hdser  sang  with 
a feeling  and  a purity  such  as  I never  heard  her  display  be- 
fore. Her  magnificent  sonorous  voice,  which  in  a room  with 
much  reverberation  sounds  almost  too  sharp,  particularly  in  the 
higher  tones,  had  a fine  effect  yesterday  in  an  apartment  where 
the  tapestry  and  carpeting  deadened  the  sound.  She  has  at 
command  every  nuance  of  tone,  from  the  most  tender  breath- 
ings to  the  greatest  fullness  of  power,  and  she  knows  how  to 
avail  herself  of  it  in  a masterly  manner.  She  has  lost,  it  is 
true,  the  brilliant  fluency  of  voice  which  was  formerly  so  much 
admired  in  Dresden,  but  she  retains  still  enough  of  it  to  enable 
her  to  give  every  vocal  ornamentation  with  ease  and  elegance. 
The  only  thing  I miss  in  her  singing  is  the  shake,  which  in 
the  present  day  is  so  much  neglected.  Moncade  is  a singer 
with  a fine  chest  voice,  and  a tasteful  though  not  a very  feel- 
ing execution.  Besides  them,  Prince  Frederick  of  Gotha  sang 
an  air,  and  a bass  singer  a couple  of  Buffi. 

I have  again  been  twice  to  Sirletti’s  music  parties.  A 
week  ago  some  parts  of  the  Requiem  were  repeated  and  the 
Halleluja;  but  the  rest  of  the  evening  was  wholly  devoted  to 
Marcello's  Psalms.  With  regard  to  the  latter,  I find  my  for- 
mer opinion  still  more  confirmed.  In  the  fine  edition  of  these 
Psalms,  there  is  also  a biography  of  Marcello , in  which  the 
reason  is  given  for  his  relinquishing  theatrical  compositions, 
to  which  alone  he  had  previously  devoted  himself,  and  taking 
all  at  once  to  sacred  music.  On  visiting  a church  in  a retired 
part  of  Venice,  he  had  the  misfortune  to  fall  through  a badly 
covered  opening  into  one  of  the  subterranean  dead-vaults,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


311 


remained  there  a long  time  before  his  cries  for  assistance  were 
heard.  This  accident  induced  so  serious  a tone  of  mind,  that 
ever  after  he  would  write  nothing  but  sacred  music. 

I have  again  been  to  Ruffini's  music  parties  also,  and 
heard  a tragic  opera  by  a young  and  early  deceased  compo- 
ser, who  had  much  native  talent  but  evinced  also  a complete 
deficiency  of  study.  The  singer  showed  to  more  advantage 
in  this  opera  than  in  the  one  they  gave  previously;  but  the 
orchestra  was  just  as  unbearable.  I sat  next  to  the  formerly 
so  celebrated  singer  Crescentini  (but,  who  is  said  to  have  now 
wholly  lost  his  voice,  although  he  is  scarcely  fifty  years  of 
age),  and  I had  the  satisfaction  to  find  that  his  opinion  upon 
the  present  state  of  music  in  Italy  agreed  in  every  respect 
with  mine.  His  conversation  evinced  the  highly  cultivated  ar- 
tiste, free  from  the  trammels  of  prejudice.  He  deplored  that 
at  the  present  day  the  good  school  of  vocal  music,  the  only 
one  in  which  Italians  had  distinguished  themselves,  had  be- 
come more  and  more  rare  every  day,  and  upon  his  last  re- 
turn to  Italy  (I  think  he  had  been  in  Paris)  he  had  found  so 
frivolous  and  bad  a taste,  that  it  no  longer  bore  the  least  trace 
of  the  former  simple  yet  noble  style  of  his  time.  To  him, 
also,  who  had  heard  much  good  music  in  Germany  and  France, 
the  insipidity  and  incorrectness  of  modern  Italian  music  are 
abominations. 


December  23. 

Now  that  the  festival  of  Christmas  is  approaching,  begging, 
with  which  one  is  plagued  here  at  all  times,  will  be  carried 
on  on  a large  scale.  Wherever  you  go,  you  are  greeted  with  the 
cry  of  ‘‘Pleasant  holidays!”  and  you  are  then  expected  to  pull 
out  your  purse.  This  system  of  begging  occurs,  it  is  true,  in 
Germany  at  New  Year,  but  is  by  no  means  so  general  as  here. 
For  instance,  the  servants  of  all  the  nobility  and  gentry  at 
whose  houses  have  shewn  yourself,  if  but  once,  come  to  beg  of 
you;  and  indeed  at  other  times  as  well,  foreigners  are  laid 
under  contribution  by  them.  If  you  have  paid  the  master  & 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


312 


visit,  the  servant  comes  the  next  day  and  asks  you  for  a pre- 
sent. As  one  cannot  give  less  than  three  Paoli,  it  becomes  a 
dear  amusement  to  deliver  many  letters  of  introduction  here. 
The  poor  devils  are  certainly  very  badly  paid,  and  must  re- 
sort to  such  a system  of  begging  if  they  would  not  starve. 

Yesterday  Meyerbeer  and  his  mother  arrived  here.  He  re- 
ceived a letter  in  Florence  from  Carl  M.  von  Weber , and  read 
to  me  from  it  the  gratifying  intelligence  that  my  Opera  “Faust” 
had  already  been  twice  performed  at  Prague  with  marked  ap- 
probation. 


December  25. 

Last  evening  we  were  present  at  a service  in  the  Six- 
tine  chapel  preparatory  to  the  approaching  high  festival.  I 
had  anticipated  something  very  effective  but  I found  myself 
very  much  mistaken.  The  illumination  was  by  no  means  ef- 
fective, for  the  chapel  was  soon  so  filled  with  the  smoke  of 
the  tapers  that  you  could  not  see  distinctly  ten  paces  before 
you.  Instead  of  the  four-voice  Psalmody  which  I had  hoped 
for,  the  singers  of  the  choir  recited  merely  a rather  long  Li- 
tany of  prayers  in  unisono,  without  any  melody,  something  as 
the  following: 


To  listen  to  this  for  almost  half  an  hour  without  interruption 
was  the  greatest  musical  penitence  that  I ever  endured.  At 
length,  in  the  midst  of  a silent  prayer,  we  were  refreshed  by 
a four-voiced  solo,  in  which  the  splendid  soprano-voice  before 
alluded  to  was  again  remarkable.  But  immediately  after  this, 
the  monotonous  chaunt  was  again  resumed,  and  now  we  thought 
it  preferable  to  work  our  way  through  the  compact  crowd 
at  the  expense  of  great  exertion  rather  than  to  endure  it  any 
longer. 

This  morning  early  we  at  length  saw  the  head  of  the 
catholic  church  in  the  highest  ecclesiastical  pomp  perform 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


313 


mass  in  the  church  of  St.  Peter.  The  high  altar  under  the 
dome,  divested  of  its  habitual  covering,  was  radiant  with  gold 
and  precious  stones  ; the  clergy  and  cardinals,  habited  in  their 
richest  gold-embroidered  stuffs,  the  body-guard  in  their  splen- 
did uniform,  the  Swiss  guard  in  their  bright  polished  old  Ger- 
man armour,  in  a word  all  converted  with  the  pope  contri- 
buted to  render  this  service  the  most  splendid  spectacle  ever 
performed  in  a church.  For  more  than  a theatrical  spectacle 
it  was  not  to  the  surrounding  crowd:  not  a sign  of  emotion 
or  spiritual  elevation  was  to  be  seen  among  the  many  thou- 
sand spectators!  The  appearance  of  a spectacle  got  up  for 
amusement  was  more  especially  given  to  it  by  the  circumstance 
that  for  the  accommodation  of  the  high  personages  who  were 
present  — the  king  of  Spain,  the  queen  of  Etruria,  the  princes  of 
Prussia,  Gotha  and  others  — a sumptuously  decorated  box  had 
been  erected,  and,  that  upon  the  amphitheatre  the  fashionable 
world  of  Rome  was  present  in  full  dress.  A singular  contrast 
with  this  splendour  was  presented  by  the  rags  and  dirt  of 
the  riff-raff  of  the  Roman  populace  who  had  pressed  to  the 
very  step  of  the  high  altar.  As  the  “service”  became  tediously 
long,  and  what  the  singers  sang  was  neither  very  interesting, 
nor  could  be  heard  distinctly  for  the  noise  in  the  church,  we 
preferred  to  take  a walk,  as  the  weather  was  so  mild  and 
bright,  but  returned  in  sufficient  time  to  the  church  to  see 
the  procession,  which  forms  the  close  to  the  whole  perfor- 
mance. 

In  front  moved  a detachment  of  the  body-guard,  behind 
these  the  Cardinal’s  hat  was  carried  upon  a sword ; then  came  the 
Cardinals,  and  lastly  the  Pope  seated  upon  a richly  decorated 
sedan  or  throne  borne  by  eight  priests ; on  either  side  of  him 
two  large  fans  of  white  ostrich  feathers;  then  all  the  clergy, 
and  lastly  the  remainder  of  the  body-guard  and  Swiss  guards. 
During  the  procession,  the  Pope,  a venerable  old  man  of  75,  on 
whose  pale  and  interesting  face  the  exhausting  influence  of  fre- 
quent fast  and  of  the  long  fatiguing  service  were  very  distinctly 
visible,  bestowed  with  a feeble  motion  of  the  hand  his  blessing 


Digitized  by 


Google 


314 


upon  the  people.  But  the  latter  shewed  during  this  no  sign  of 
devotion;  not  a knee  was  bent;  there  was  laughing  and  loud 
^talking  during  the  whole  service.  The  procession  passed  out 
through  a side  chapel  into  the  Vatican.  The  immense  size 
of  the  church  could  be  first  rightly  seen  to  r day,  from  the 
mass  of  human  beings  which  it  held.  It  was  full  half  an  hour 
before  they  could  make  their  exit  through  three  large  doors. 

December  27. 

Yesterday,  at  last  the  theatres  were  once  more  opened; 
after  being  closed  six  months.  At  the  Argentino  theatre,  the 
largest  and  handsomest,  Rossini's  “Tancredi”  was  performed, 
at  the  theatre  Valle,  a new  Opera  buffa  by  Signor  Pietro  Ro- 
mano, called  “II  Quiproquo.”  As  “Tancredi”  is  an  old  opera, 
the  first  night  of  which  is  not  more  interesting  than  the  suc- 
ceeding ones,  Meyerbeer  easily  persuaded  me  to  go  with  him 
to  the  Valle  theatre,  while  my  wife  and  the  children,  with  Ma- 
dame Beer , went  to  the  Argentino  theatre.  Before  the  opera 
a farce  in  prose  was  given,  imitated  from  our  German  “Probe- 
rollen.”  Then  came  the  first  act  of  the  opera,  the  text  of 
which  we  soon  recognised  as  an  adaptation  of  the  “Nouveau 
Seigneur  de  Village  ” The  subject,  though  spun  out  somewhat 
too  much,  was  neither  so  stupid  nor  so  wearisome  as  those 
of  most  Italian  operas.  But  so  much  the  more  insipid  and 
common -place  is  the  music.  Signor  Romano  has  taken  the 
now  so  much  admired  Rossini  as  his  model,  and  so  closely 
imitated  him,  or  rather  copied  him  outright,  that  the  pit  called 
out  every  moment  “Bravo  Rossini /”  With  that  his  music  is  so 
incorrect,  that  an  ear  accustomed  to  a pure  harmony  cannot 
hear  it  without  disgust.  Nevertheless  that  was  no  injury  to  it 
here,  but  much  more  so  its  want  of  fire  and  noise,  the  last 
of  which  the  Italians  are  as  fond  of  as  the  French  and  Ger- 
mans. Once  only,  after  a duet,  the  pit  called  out  the  encour- 
aging and  joyful  “Bravo  Maestro /”  for  which  he  immediately 
made  a most  profound  bow.  All  the  rest  was  listened  to  with 
coldness,  and  at  the  conclusion  of  the  opera  neither  approval 


Digitized  by  Google 


315 


nor  displeasure  was  expressed.  The  singers  were  by  no  means 
sure  of  their  parts,  and  were  continually  making. mistakes.  , 
Madame  Georgi , the  prima  donna , who  in  the  previous  -gar- 
nival  had  been  the  favorite  of  the  public,  did  not  please  much 
yesterday,  and  had  the  annoyance  of  seeing  the  seconda  donna, 
who  certainly  did  not  sing  badly,  called  forward  after  her 
aria  in  the  second  act,  an  honour  which  had  not  fallen  to  her 
lot  all  the  evening.  She  shewed  her  displeasure  at  this  by 
singing  the  rest  of  her  part  with  the  utmost  indifference  and 
and  with  half-voice  only,  by  which  however  she  injured  the 
last  finale  very  much,  and  was  perhaps  the  cause  of  the  opera’s 
going  off  so  coldly,  and  of  the  report  which  prevails  in  the 
town  to-day,  that  she  had  not  given  satisfaction.  The  orchestra, 
composed  for  the  most  part  of  the  professors  (!)  who  had 
played  at  my  concert,  played  crudely,  incorrectly  and  without 
any  sort  of  difference  between  piano  and  forte. 

This  morning  there  was  another  private  music  party  at 
Count  Apponyi's.  Nothing  else  scarcely  was  sung  but  things 
from  Rossini's  operas,  of  which  a terzette,  from  “Elisabetha,” 
if  I am  not  mistaken,  pleased  me  most,  on  account  of  the  ex- 
cellent treatment  of  the  voices.  The  more  I hear  of  Rossini's 
compositions,  the  more  I am  disposed  to  join  in  part  with 
the  general  opinion,  which  pronounces  him  the  most  dis- 
tinguished of  modern  Italian  composers,  and  as  a reformer  of 
the  taste  in  operatic  style.  Mayer  may  nevertheless  with  pro- 
priety be  excepted,  who  has,  if  not  so  much  imagination  as 
Rossini,  yet,  certainly,  more  knowledge  and  aesthetic  feeling. 
That  the  latter  is  wanting  in  knowledge  of  harmony,  delinea- 
tion of  character,  sense  of  the  difference  between  the  serious 
and  comic  style,  and  of  propriety,  I observed  already  in  Flo- 
rence, after  hearing  the  “Italiana  in  Algeria.”  Rossini,  how- 
ever, has  devised  some  quite  new  things,  although  they  are  not 
necessarily  good  because  they  are  new:  for  instance  his  “flowery 
song,”  as  Meyerbeer  very  characteristically  calls  it,  which  in 
reality  is  nothing  more  than  that  the  passages  hitherto  sung  on 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


316 


one  vowel  are  sung  with  a series  of  syllables,  as  in  an  aria  in 
the  “Italiana”: 


or  in  a duet  between  a tenor  and  a bass  in  the  same  opera, 
where  the  part  for  the  second  voice  is  very  unsingable  and 
more  like  an  orchestral  bass  than  a singing  bass : * 


Every  time  such  little  tricky  passages  occur,  and  are  well 
executed  by  the  singers,  as  to-day  by  Moncade  especially,  the 
auditory  breaks  out  into  an  ecstasy  of  applause  which  causes 
Italian  music  to  degenerate  more  and  more  into  a mere  tick- 
ling of  the  ears  and  both  singers  and  composer;  become  every 
day  less  capable  in  use  of  working  upon  the  feelings ; so  that 
I may  say  without  exaggeration,  that  of  all  the  compositions 
we  have  yet  heard  in  Italy,  I have  not  experienced  the  least 
emotion,  with  the  exception  of  one  or  two  passages  in  the 
“Testa  di  bronzo” ; and  of  all  the  singers  we  have  yet  heard, 

*)  As  I do  not  know  the  text,  I have  appended  dots  for  the  syl- 
lables. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


317 


Madame  Haser  alone,  in  a duet  from  the  old  “Passione”  of 
Paisiello  moved  me  for  a few  seconds. 

Likewise  new,  and  first  introduced  by  Rossini,  is  the  way  in 
which  the  speaking  passages  in  the  Opera  buffa,  hitherto  usually 
written  in  one  tone,  or  at  least  at  very  close  intervals  only, 
and  formerly  always  given  legato,  are  provided  with  syllables, 
as  for  instance  in  the  beginning  of  the  above  duet: 


Well  known  as  this  commencement  is  (it  resembles  the 
beginning  of  a finale  in  a quartett  of  Haydn  in  E flat-major): 


yet  his  method  of  giving  it  with  the  different  syllables  of  the 
text  in  this  manner  is  quite  new ; but  whether  good  or  not, 
is  stilly  the  question;  to  me  it  always  sounded  as  though  tra- 
vestied, as  if,  for  instance,  a song  which  admits  of  a feeling 
execution  were  executed  upon  a singing  instrument  and  for 
fun’s  sake  so  caricatured  that  it  excited  laughter  instead  of 
emotion.  At  any  rate  no  instrumentalist  of  taste  would  play 
the  above  song  staccato . 

The  following  and  similar  crescendo  passages  are  also  pe- 
culiar to  Rossini,  they  appear  in  almost  all  his  musical  pieces, 
and  the  Italian  public  are  thrown  into  ecstasies  by  them;  for 
instance,  in  the  overture  to  the  “Italiana.” 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


318 


cresc 


In  this  manner  it  continues  for  a while,  until  at  length 
at  the  strongest  forte , the  public  break  out  into  a furious  clap- 
ping of  hands  and  shouts  of  “Bravo!”  In  fact  it  can  so  little  re- 
sist such  a crescendo , that  even  the  luckless  imitators  of  Rossini , 
like  Signor  Romano  in  the  opera  last  night,  understood  how 
to  draw  down  a storm  of  applause  by  it.  That  such  passages 
are  frequently  very  incorrect  and  offensive  from  the  passing 
notes  occurring  in  them,  it  is  not  necessary  for  me  to  remark ; 
even  in  the  celebrated  cavatina  from  “Tancredi,”  so  enthusi- 
siastically  admired  throughout  Italy,  and  which  was  also  sung 
to-day,  there  are  in  the  very  first  bars  the  most  hideous-sound- 
ing octaves,  between  the  bass  and  the  second  hautboy,  that  I 
ever  heard. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


319 


The  first  result  of  my  judgment  of  Rossini  is,  therefore, 
that  he  is  by  no  means  wanting  in  invention  and  genius  and 
with  those  qualifications  had  he  been  scientifically  educated, 
and  led  to  the  only  right  way  by  Mozart's  classical  master- 
pieces, he  might  readily  have  become  one  of  the  most  distin- 
guished composers  of  vocal-music  of  pur  day,  but,  as  he  now 
writes,  he  will  not  raise  Italian  music,  but  much  rather  lower 
it.  In  order  to  be  new,  Rossini  departs  more  and  more  from 
the  simple  and  grand  style  of  song  of  former  days,  and  does 
not  reflect  that  in  so  doing  he  wholly  robs  the  voice  of  its 
charm  and  advantages,  and  actually  debases  it,  when  he  far- 
ces it  to  execute  passages  and  fioritures,  which  every  petty 
instrumentalist  can  produce  much  purer,  and  especially  much 
more  connected , because  he  has  no  need  to  express  a syllable 
every  time  on  the  third  or  fourth  note.  With  his  “flowery 
song,”  however  much  it  may  please,  he  is  therefore  in  a fair 
way  to  make  a clearance  of  all  real  song  which  is  already 
now  very  scarce  in  Italy,  and  in  which  the  despicable  horde 
of  Imitators,  who  here  as  well  as  in  Germany  pursue  their 
pitiful  calling,  are  doing  their  best  to  assist  him. 

December  29. 

Last  evening  I went  with  Meyerbeer  to  hear  “Tancredi” 
at  the  Argentino  theatre.  I never  wetnessed  a more  wretched 
performance.  The  singers,  with  the  exception  of  Paris  the 
elder,  are  very  mediocre;  the  prima  donna,  the  younger  Paris , 
is  yet  quite  a beginner,  the  basso  was  frightful,  the  orchestra 
worse  than  in  the  smallest  provincial  town  in  Germany,  and 
in  a word,  it  is  an  assemblage  of  folks  such  as  had  all  Italy 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


320 


been  ransacked  for  the  purpose,  it  would  have  been  difficult 
to  find  worse.  God  help  the  composer  whose  work  falls  into 
such  hands!  They  disfigured  it  in  such  a manner  that  one  can 
no  longer  recognise  it.  The  only  one  person  who  distinguished 
herself,  was  the  elder  Pam,  who,  in  the  part  of  “Tancredi,” 
displayed  a powerful,  healthy  contralto  voice  and  a cultivated 
execution.  It  would  be  unjust  after  such  a representation  to 
pass  judgment  upon  the  opera,  and  the  more  so,  as  several 
passages  were  omitted  and  others  substituted.  The  ballet 
which  was  given  between  the  acts,  was  quite  of  a piece  with 
the  rest:  a serious  ballet  executed  by  a number  of  grotesque 
dancers ! But  among  these  were  some  men,  who  made  them- 
selves remarkable  by  the  power,  and  agitity  and  by  springs  of 
all  kinds. 

During  the  last  week  w*e  have  again  seen  many  interest- 
ing things ; the  museum  of  the  Capitol,  in  which  the  dying  gla- 
diator and  several  Egyptian  statues  pleased  me  most  — the 
latter  less  remarkable  for  artistic  beauty  than  for  singularity; 
the  picture  gallery  in  the  Doria  palace,  which  contains  among 
many  other  remarkable  pictures,  four  beautiful  handscapes  by 
Claude  Lorrain;  another  gallery  in  the  Colonna  palace,  in 
which  hangs  an  extremely  beautiful  head  of  Raphael;  the  hand- 
some and  richly  decorated  churches  of  Santa  Maria  Maggiore 
and  St  Giovanni  in  Later ano,  &c.  From  the  portal  of  the 
latter  one  has  an  extensive  view  in  the  direction  of  Albano, 
which  with  the  ancient  aqueducts,  which  the  eye  can  follow 
for  miles,  and  other  remains  of  ancient  Roman  architecture, 
possesses  much  romantic  interest. 

On  Sunday  evening,  the  weather  being  very  clear,  we  as- 
scended  the  dome  of  St.  Peter’s  church.  The  ascent  is  at  first 
by  a footway  of  a spiral  form  without  steps  as  far  as  the 
roof  of  the  church.  Arrived  there  once  fancies  one’sself  again 
in  the  streets  of  a town,  for  the  ground  is  paved,  and  a num- 
ber of  houses,  some  of  which  are  inhabited,  together  with  nu- 
merous small  and  large  cupolas,  prevent  a view  into  the  dis- 
tance. But  if  you  w’alk  up  to  the  gigantic  statues  over  the 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


321 


portal  of  the  church,  you  then  see  at  how  great  a height  you 
are  standing.  The  pavement  of  the  square  in  front  of  the 
church  looks  like  a minute  mosaic,  and  the  people  little  pup- 
pets creeping  about  upon  it.  On  looking  up  to  the  dome  from 
here,  it  looks  like  an  enormous  isolated  building;  from  the 
first  interior  gallery  one  has  also  to  mount  to  a considerable 
height  before  one  arrives  at  the  second,  where  the  first  swell 
of  the  dome  begins.  The  view  from  these  galleries,  particu- 
larly from  the  second,  down  into  the  church  is  quite  sui  gene- 
ris, and  makes  one  positively  shudder.  The  hundred  lamps 
which  burn  right  under  the  dome  at  the  entrance  of  the  sub- 
terranean chapel,  seem  to  mingle  as  in  one  Same,  and  the 
human  beings  below  appear  like  moving  black  spots.  From 
the  second  gallery  one  then  ascends  between  the  inner  and 
exterior  dome  by  wooden  steps  up  to  the  lantern,  from  which 
one  has  again  a view  down  into  the  church  that  makes  the 
head  turn.  From  here  a flight  of  winding  stone  steps  once 
more  leads  up  into  a tolerably  large  chamber  situated  in  the 
top  of  the  lantern,  and  thence  at  length  ascending  an  iron 
ladder,  one  passes  through  the  shaft  to  the  ball,  which  is  large 
enough  to  contain  from  twelve  to  sixteen  persons. 

The  foolhardy  can  ascend  yet  higher,  by  a ladder  out- 
side the  ball,  up  into  the  cross,  but  we  were  quite  satisfied 
with  having  been  as  high  as  the  ball.  The  view  from  the  ex- 
ternal galleries  is  magnificent  and  varied  beyond  description. 
Below,  proud  Rome  with  its  inummerable  palaces,  ruins,  co- 
lumns and  obelisks;  around  it  the  villas. 

In  the  distance  the  mountain  near  Tivoli  and  Albano, 
above  which  are  seen  the  peaks  of  snow -covered  mountains, 
and  far  away  on  the  west  the  Mediterranean,  which  at  the 
time  of  the  day  we  ascended  the  dome  looked  like  a fiery 
stripe  in  the  distant  sky.  After  we  had  long  enjoyed  this 
entrancing  view,  we  descended  and  found  that  two  hours  had 
passed  very  rapidly  in  the  ascent  of  the  dome. 

We  also  went  up  the  high  column  on  the  Piazza  Colonna , 
and  from  its  summit,  which  rises  high  above  all  the  houses, 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  I.  21 


Digitized  by 


Google 


322 


enjoyed  one  of  the  finest  views  of  Rome  and  its  immediate 
environs. 


December  30. 

I have  acquired  the  conviction  that  the  Italians,  even  in 
modern  times,  are  not  wanting  in  natural  abilities  for  the  study 
of  the  fine  arts,  and  indeed,  that  on  the  whole  they  surpass 
therein  the  northern  nations.  Almost  all  their  singers  have 
a happy  ear  for  intonation,  and  the  faculty  of  immediately 
seizing  and  repeating  a melody  once  heard ; although  but  very 
few  of  them,  even  among  the  theatrical  singers  possess  what 
we  call  music , and  most  of  them  scarcely  even  know  their  notes. 
At  the  last  musical  party  at  Apponyi's  there  was  a Canon  of 
Cherubini's  to  be  sung,  in  which  Moncade  who,  as  I had  beeatold, 
is  one  of  the  singers  who  cannot  read  music,  although  formerly 
a theatrical  singer,  was  solicited  to  take  a part.  As  he  willingly 
assented  to  sing  something  that  he  did  not  know,  I immediately 
thought  that  in  his  case  at  least  what  I had  heard  was  untrue. 
The  Countess  first  sang  the  slow  melody  consisting  of  eight  bars 
and  Moncade  repeated  it  note  for  note  with  all  the  little  or- 
naments which  she  had  added.  But  when  his  part  began,  he 
could  get  no  farther:  nevertheless,  he  did  not  permit  himself 
to  be  disconcerted,  but  sang  away  by  ear,  which  certainly  some- 
times did  not  sound  much  like  music  by  Cherubini.  When,  how- 
ever, the  third  singer,  who  also  had  no  music  before  him,  be- 
gan, after  his  first  simple  entry  in  the  second  part,  also  to 
compose,  such  confusion  and  discord  arose  that  they  were  ob- 
liged to  leave  off.  Both  singers  declared  very  ingenuously  that 
they  had  hoped,  they  would  have  accomplished  it;  like  the 
Englishman  who,  when  he  was  asked  if  he  played  the  violin, 
replied:  “It  is  possible,  but  I have  never  yet  tried.” 

Among  the  lower  uneducated  classes  of  the  people,  a re- 
markable genius  for  painting  is  by  no  means  rare  here,  which 
is  awakened  by  the  early  contemplation  of  the  public  works 
of  art.  In  this  manner  the  attention  of  the  painters  here  has 
been  attracted  for  the  last  year  and  more  by  the  extraordinary 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


323 


artistic  talent  of  a lad  in  the  streets.  This  boy,  without  ever 
having  had  the  least  instruction,  draws  large  historical  sketches 
in  charcoal  upon  the  white  walls  of  the  houses,  and  there  is 
scarcely  a street  in  which  some  of  his  artistic  work  is  not  to 
be  seen. 

Sometimes  he  chooses  for  his  subject  a Madonna,  or  some 
legend,  at  others  a Roman  triumph.  But  in  no  one  instance 
has  he  ever  copied  from  any  existing  subject,  or  even  repeated 
himself;  his  fancy  constantly  creates  something  new.  Some  of 
these  sketches  excite  the  greatest  astonishment  by  the  rich- 
ness of  the  composition,  comprising  frequently  more  than  thirty 
or  forty  figures,  and  by  the  correctness  of  the  drawing.  The 
most  remarkable  to  me  is  the  certainty  with  which  he  throws 
off  and  depicts  his  ideas.  You  see  no  double  stroke  in  the 
contours  — nothing  wiped  out  — everything  stands  there  at 
once  clear  and  prominent.  When  he  draws  he  is  always  sur- 
rounded by  a crowd  of  people,  who  look  on  with  gratification 
at  the  skill  he  displays;  but  he  is  so  deeply  engrossed  with 
his  work,  that  he  heeds  neither  the  surrounding  spectators 
nor  their  remarks.  I have  been  told  that  Canova  took  this 
lad,  with  the  view  of  developing  his  talent;  but  that  regular 
kind  of  life  did  not  all  please  him,  and  he  soon  ran  away. 

January  1.  1817. 

The  new  year  has  begun  very  unpleasantly  for  us.  This 
morning  Emily  was  taken  suddenly  ill.  The  doctor  thinks  she 
will  have  the  scarlet  fever;  should  that  be  the  case,  we  shall 
be  obliged  to  postpone  our  departure  for  Naples,  which  we 
had  fixed  for  the  7th,  for  at  least  a fortnight.  Added  to  the 
annoyance  of  remaining  here  yet  longer  without  any  object  and 
in  anxiety,  is  that  of  being  compelled  to  see  our  fellow-coun- 
trymen with  whom  we  had  contemplated  making  the  journey 
together  depart  alone,  and  that  also  of  missing  the  opening 
of  the  St.  Carlo  theatre  at  Naples,  which  is  to  take  place  on 
the  12th.  To  console  ourselves  for  the  latter  we  shall  mean- 
while hear  the  new  opera  of  Rossini , which  he  is  writing  for  the 

21  * 


Digitized  by  Google 


324 


Valle  theatre,  and  the  debut  of  Madame  Schonberger  at  the 
Argentino. 

January  3. 

Not  only  Emily , but  Ida  also  has  caught  the  scarlet  fever, 
and  now  for  a certainty  we  shall  not  be  able  to  leave  before 
the  20th.  Both  children  were  very  ill  for  some  days,  and  my 
good  Dorette  has  been  extremely  alarmed  and  anxious.  I have 
kept  up  my  spirits  und  amused  myself  in  inventing  some  puzzle- 
canons  and  have  now  began  to  write  a new  solo-quartett. 

I should  so  much  have  liked  to  make  Rossinis  acquaint- 
ance; but  before  he  has  finished  his  opera  this  is  quite  out 
of  the  question.  The  impressario,  in  whose  house  he  lives, 
neither  permits  him  to  go  out  nor  to  receive  visits,  so  that 
he  may  not  neglect  his  work.  Should  his  opera  not  be  brought 
out  before  our  departure,  I shall  probably  not  be  able  to  see 
him. 

January  18. 

The  children  have  recovered  sooner  than  we  had  anticipated, 
and  we  have  fixed  to  leave  for  Naples  the  day  after  to-morrow. 

Last  Thursday  I went  again  to  Sirletti’s,  and  yesterday 
to  the  morning  concert  at  Count  Apponyis ; at  neither  place, 
however,  was  any  thing  played  worth  particular  notice,  with 
the  exception  of  a fine  quartett  by  Mayer  and  a duet  from 
a comic  opera  of  Fioravanti.  Mayer  is  remarkable  for  scru- 
pulously correct  harmony,  regularity  of  rhythm  and  a good 
treatment  of  the  voices  in  part  compositions,  and  surpasses 
therein  all  modern  Italians.  The  duet  out  of  Fioravanti  more 
particularly  interested  me  from  the  circumstance  that  it  is  also 
adorned  with  the  modern  so-called  uflowery  song,”  from  which 
I find  that  Rossini  is  neither  the  first  nor  only  one  who 
makes  use  of  it.  I begin  moreover  to  judge  him  more  favour- 
ably, as  long  as  he  does  not  venture  beyond  the  limits  of 
comic  opera,  and  when  his  music  is  as  gracefully  executed  as 
by  the  Countess  Apponyi  and  Moncade. 

* * 

* 


Digitized  by  Google 


325 


On  the  20th  January  we  left  Rome.  The  Campagna  di 
Roma  is  as  little  cultivated  on  this  side  as  on  the  other;  the 
road  as  far  as  Albano  derives  nevertheless  much  interest  from 
the  many  antiquities  seen  on  the  way.  The  numerous  remains 
of  three  or  four  old  Roman  acqueducts  give  a particularly  ro- 
mantic aspect  to  the  country  round.  One  of  the  acqueducts, 
which  was  less  injured,  has  been  repared  in  later  times,  and 
still  serves  to  supply  Rome  with  water  upon  this  side. 

While  our  vetturino  was  baiting  his  horses  at  Albano,  I 
ascended  the  mountain  upon  which  the  lake  of  Albano  is  si- 
tuated. The  view  across  it  towards  Rome  is  exceedingly  beau- 
tiful. Below  at  one’s  feet  is  seen  the  lake  with  its  high  pre- 
cipitous banks  thickly  covered  with  trees  and  underwood ; upon 
the  right  a long  building,  the  use  of  which  I do  not  know; 
to  the  left,  upon  the  high  steep  bank,  Castel  Gandolfo,  and 
in  the  extreme  distance  the  mass  of  houses  of  Rome.  The 
form  of  the  lake  and  of  its  high  precipitous  banks  indicates 
plainly  that  it  has  been  formed  by  the  falling  in  of  a burnt- 
out  crater. 

The  road  from  Albano  to  the  little  dirty  town  of  Velle- 
tri,  where  we  took  up  our  first  night-quarters,  presents  a great 
variety  of  scenery. 

On  the  second  day  we  crossed  the  Pontine  marshes,  which 
extend  from  Velletri  to  Terracina,  a distance  of  four  and  twenty 
Italian  miles.  We  did  not  find  them  so  desolate  and  barren 
as  we  expected,  for  one  has  always  a sight  of  the  mountains 
on  the  left,  and  here  and  there  of  even  a few  patches  of  culti- 
vated land.  The  numerous  herds  of  oxen,  buffaloes,  swine,  and 
in  the  dry  parts,  of  sheep  also,  give  some  life  to  the]  unformity 
of  the  level.  But  houses  are  of  rare  occurrence,  and  the  in- 
habitants have  always  a pale  unhealthy  appearance.  In  the  heat 
of  summer  the  exhalations  from  the  marshes  are  very  dangerous, 
even  to  travellers  who  do  but  cross  them,  particularly  if  they 
abandon  themselves  to  sleep,  to  which  one  is  greatly  induced  by 
the  uniformity  of  the  road.  Only  last  summer  a young  lady 
who  could  not  resist  the  disposition  to  sleep  inhaled  death  here, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


326 


and  was  carried  off  by  a malignant  fever  three  days  after  her 
arrival  in  Naples.  Such  cases  are  not  unfrequent  in  summer. 

At  Torre  a tri  ponti,  a solitary  hostelry,  all  the  inmates 
of  which  looked  as  if  they  had  just  risen  from  their  graves, 
we  dined,  and  had  very  excellent  meat,  and  roast  ducks  and 
geese,  of  which  there  are  swarms  in  the  uncultivated  parts  of 
the  marshes. 

Terracina,  where  we  arrived  at  night-fall  is  most  charm- 
ingly situated.  The  town  stands  upon  a wild  rocky  eminence, 
but  we  stopped  below  at  a very  excellent  inn  close  to  the  sea. 
From  our  windows  we  had  a view  of  the  sea,  and  on  the  following 
morning  enjoyed  the  magnificent  sight  of  the  rising  sun.  Close 
below  our  windows,  the  waves  broke  with  considerable  noise, 
although  during  the  previous  day  the  wind  had  not  been  high. 
The  air  was  as  mild  as  after  a warm  summer’s  day  in  Ger- 
many, and  in  the  evening  late  we  saw  the  fishermen  launch 
their  barks  through  the  surf  by  moonlight,  to  cast  their  nets. 

On  the  next  morning  we  had  to  pass  through  the  most 
dangerous  part  of  the  whole  journey,  from  being  the  most  in- 
fested with  banditti.  This  part  is  between  Terracina  and  Fondi, 
where  the  road  lies  through  a thinly  inhabited  country  and 
almost  always  between  masses  of  low  bushes  in  which  the 
scoundrels  easily  conceal  themselves,  and  can  shoot  down  tra- 
vellers and  their  escort  from  an  ambuscade  without  being  per- 
ceived. It  is  here  where  the  most  robberies  are  perpetrated, 
and  but  recently  only  some  travellers  were  again  attacked. 
But  the  government  has  at  length  taken  earnest  measures  to 
suppress  this.  We  found  several  hundred  peasants  employed 
in  cutting  down  all  the  bushes  on  both  sides  of  the  road  and 
burning  them ; and  we  met  several  strong  detachments  of  sol- 
diers, sent  out  to  hunt  up  the  banditti  in  their  fastnesses. 
From  twenty  to  thirty  have  already  been  brought  in  and  hung 
up  with  little  ceremony.  On  this  side  of  the  Neapolitan  frontiers 
we  met  & picquet  of  soldiers  at  intervals  of  every  quarter  of 
an  hour,  which  bivouacked  on  the  side  of  the  road  and  sent 
out  patrols  during  the  night. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


327 


At  Fondi,  a poor  dirty  looking  hole,  where  we  were  al- 
most torn  to  pieces  by  beggars,  we  saw  the  first  gardens  of 
lemons,  pomegranates  and  oranges.  We  took  a walk  through 
the  town  and  were  delighted  with  the  sight  of  the  splendid 
trees,  which  were  loaded  with  the  finest  fruit.  In  the  gardens 
and  in  the  market  we  saw  fine  fresh  vegetables,  such  as  cauli- 
flowers, savoy-cabbages,  carrots,  &c.  But  at  noon  the  heat 
was  so  great,  that  we  were  obliged  to  seek  the  shade. 

We  passed  the  night  at  Molo  di  Gaeta,  also  a small  town 
situate  close  to  the  sea.  From  the  windows  of  our  inn  in  the 
evening  we  saw  the  fishermen  put  out  to  sea  by  torchlight  to 
fish.  Between  Molo  and  Santa  Agata  we  saw  a great  number 
of  evergreen  shrubs  and  plants,  which  do  not  grow  even  in 
the  north  of  Italy,  and  upon  the  rocks  several  kinds  of  aloes, 
such  as  we  grow  in  greenhouses.  Several  other  shrubs  which 
are  also  indigenous  with  us  were  already  in  their  first  leaf. 
On  the  road-side  the  air  was  perfumed  by  the  violets,  and  the 
fields  with  the  blossoms  of  the  beans. 

Capua,  where  we  passed  the  last  night  of  our  journey,  is 
a handsome  town  with  fine  buildings.  We  supped  in  the  even- 
ing with  two  Austrian  officers,  who  told  us  among  other  things, 
that  they  did  not  bury  people  in  Capua,  but  threw  them  down 
a hole  about  a mile  from  the  town,  which  was  unfathomly 
deep,  but  was  believed  to  have  a communication  with  the  sea, 
as  after  some  lapse  of  time  one  could  hear  the  bodies  of  those 
who  where  thrown  down  fall  into  the  water. 

The  road  from  Capua  to  Naples  is  the  most  uninterest- 
ing of  the  whole  journey.  Nothing  else  is  to  be  seen  on  either 
side  of  the  road  but  high  mulberry  trees  and  pendant  vines, 
both  now  without  leaves.  At  two  o’clock  in  the  afternoon  we 
at  length  arrived  at  the  long-wished  for  Naples,  and  found  a 
lodging  which  had  been  already  engaged  and  prepared  for 
us  by  one  of  our  fellow-countrymen. 

End  of  the  First  Volume.  • 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Digitized  by 


Naples , January  1. 

Naples,  although  not  remarkable  for  beautiful  architecture,  is, 
from  its  situation  and  many  peculiarities,  one  of  the  most  beau- 
tiful cities  of  the  world.  On  coming  from  Rome,  one  certainly 
misses  the  grander  taste  in  architecture  and  other  works  of 
decorative  art  formed  upon  and  refined  by  the  study  of  the 
antique,  which  for  ages  has  rendered  that  city  the  most  in- 
teresting of  all  others  to  the  architect,  the  sculptor  and  the 
painter;  but  one  is  compensated  for  that  in  Naples  by  other 
advantages  that  Rome  has  not.  To  an  inhabitant  of  northern 
lands,  the  city  presents  from  its  amphitheatrical  position  a 
most  imposing  spectacle,  and  with  its  flat  roofs  covered  with 
party-coloured  and  lacquered  tiles,  its  cupolas  and  towers,  it 
has  a very  novel  and  oriental  appearance.  It  is  moreover 
one  of  the  most  lively  cities  of  the  world,  at  least  one  of  the 
most  noisy;  for  although  Vienna  and  Hamburg,  the  two  most 
populous  cities  that  I have  yet  seen,  may  have  proportion- 
ately as  many  inhabitants  as  Naples,  yet  the  latter,  partly  from 
its  southern  liveliness,  and  partly  from  the  circumstance  that 
here  all  classes  idle  away  more  time  in  the  streets  than  they 
work  at  home,  is  much  more  animated  than  those  cities.  The 
noise  in  the  streets  is  positively  great  beyond  description,  and 
until  one  has  become  somewhat  accustomed  to  it,  one  is  com- 
pletely deafened  by  it.  All  the  mechanics  pursue  their  calling 
in  the  streets : blacksmiths,  locksmiths,  copper-smiths,  car- 

8P0HR,  Autobiography.  U.  £ 


Digitized  by  foozle 


2 


penters,  tailors  and  shoemakers  — all  alike  sit  in  front  of 
their  houses  variously  intermingled,  and  work.  Added  to  that 
the  rattling  of  the  carts  and  vehicles,  which  in  the  principal 
streets  almost  always  move  on  two  lines,  the  wild  cries  of 
itinerant  vendors,  always  endeavouring  to  undersell  each  other, 
and  lastly  the  animated  language  and  gestures  of  those  who 
meet,  or  converse  in  the  streets,  who  to  a German  seem  as 
though  they  were  in  violent  dispute,  although  they  are  per- 
haps merely  talking  of  the  weather  or  some  unimportant  piece 
of  news  or  town  gossip.  But  more  striking  than  in  any  other 
city  of  the  world  is  the  contrast  between  the  luxury  in  the 
equipages  and  dress  of  the  higher  classes,  and  the  dirt  and 
nakedness  of  the  lower  ones,  particularly  of  the  so-called  Laz- 
zaroni.  Of  these  whole  families  are  to  be  seen  lying  in  the 
streets  in  the  midst  of  the  beau  monde,  looking  for  vermin 
upon  their  half-naked  bodies.  A more  disgusting  sight  I ne- 
ver beheld ! And  yet  before  Murat's  time,  who  made  soldiers 
of  all  the  able-bodied  Lazzaroni,  these  vagabonds  were  far 
more  numerous. 


February  3. 

Yesterday  we  made  our  first  excursion.  In  company  with 
our  Silesian  fellow-countrymen,  Herren  von  Raumer,  von  Lai - 
tor/,  Hagen  and  Kruse,  we  first  drove  out  to  Portici  to  see 
the  museum.  Here,  in  a suite  of  apartments,  are  preserved 
the  paintings  and  interior-decorations  found  in  Herculaneum 
and  Pompeii,  from  whence  they  have  been  taken  from  the  walls 
with  the  plaster,  and  are  here  hung  up  in  frames  with  glass 
doors.  Of  the  greater  part  of  them  the  colours  are  in  ex- 
cellent preservation,  especially  a very  fine  red.  The  room  or 
interior  decorations,  consisting  of  arabesques,  small  landscapes, 
and  the  figures  of  animals,  are  almost  all  well  painted.  The 
larger  historical  paintings  taken  from  temples  and  public  build- 
ings have  great  artistic  merit,  and  are  remarkable  both  for 
drawing  and  colour.  Some  of  these  are  in  a wonderful  state 
of  preservation,  and  appear  as  though  they  had  been  painted 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


t 


— 3 — 

but  recently.  Besides  these  paintings,  there  is  in  another  room 
a collection  of  a variety  of  metal  utensils,  a helmet,  and  some 
vases  in  pottery,  with  different  kinds  of  grain,  partly  burnt  by 
the  glowing  ashes,  such  as  wheat,  barley,  Indian  corn,  beans, 
&c.  &c.  These  different  kinds  of  grain  are  readily  recognised, 
and  we  found  them  quite  similar  to  our  own  in  size  and  form. 
All  the  other  antiquities  which  were  formerly  preserved  here 
have  been  transferred  to  Naples,  and  it  is  intended  to  trans- 
fer the  paintings  there  also. 

As  the  weather  was  extremely  fine,  we  felt  a great  dispo- 
sition to  make  the  ascent  of  mount  Vesuvius  without  loss  of 
time.  But  as  it  was  almost  impossible  for  women  and  chil- 
dren to  climb  the  last  steep  ascent,  Dorette  and  the  children 
returned  to  Naples,  accompanied  by  Herr  Kruse . We  others 
hired  some  asses  for  the  journey  and  return,  at  the  extre- 
mely low  charge  of  four  Carlini  (about  15  ^sd.),  and  set  out 
at  12  o’clock  at  noon.  At  first  the  road  lies  through  vine- 
yards for  about  the  distance  of  an  hour  and  a halfs  jour- 
ney, and  with  but  a gentle  ascent  only;  but  the  road  begins 
already  to  be  difficult,  being  very  uneven  and  stony.  We  saw 
several  vineyards  enclosed  with  large  bush -aloes  instead  of 
hedges.  After  the  lapse  of  an  hour  and  a half  we  came  to  a 
plain  which  spread  away  before  us  like  a desolate  waste,  as  far 
as  the  proper  base  of  the  volcano.  Not  a vestige  of  vegeta- 
tion met  the  eye;  on  every  side  nothing  but  masses  of  lava 
piled  upon  each  other!  Our  path  now  turned  leftward  across 
the  plain  towards  a mountain  ridge,  which  rises  like  an  island 
out  of  the  midst  of  this  fearful  wilderness.  On  this  stands  the 
so-called  hermitage,  a building  of  two  stories  high,  where  we 
refreshed  ourselves  with  bread,  wine,  cheese  and  fruits,  and 
enjoyed  the  fine  and  now  tolerably  extensive  view.  After  a 
short  rest,  in  company  with  ten  Englishmen  whom  we  met 
here,  we  resumed  the  road,  which  still  continues  to  run  over 
the  summit  of  the  ridge  as  far  as  the  crater.  This  part  of 
the  way  is  the  least  difficult,  leading  for  some  distance  through 
bushes  of  sweet  chesnuts,  the  plain  covered  with  black  lava 

1* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


4 


stretching  away  before  the  eye.  After  half  an  hour’s  progress 
we  reached  the  steepest  part  of  the  ridge,  at  the  foot  of  which 
we  were  obliged  to  leave  the  asses.  Now  began  the  difficult 
part  of  our  work.  Treading  upon  deep  ashes  without  solid 
bottom,  at  every  footstep  one  slips  back  so  far,  that  one  has 
often  scarcely  advanced  an  inch;  and  the  mountain  is  here 
so  steep,  that  one  is  obliged  to  use  the  hands  as  well  for 
progression.  Fortunately  a ridge  of  solid  lava  extends  down- 
wards almost  from  the  whole  height,  and  rises  like  a ridge 
of  rock  from  out  of  the  ashes.  When  one  has  reached  this, 
the  toil  is  less,  as  the  ground  beneath  has  again  become  firm. 
But  were  one  obliged,  as  at  first,  to  wade  always  through  the 
ashes,  it  would  require  a whole  day  to  make  the  ascent  of 
this  height  alone.  Nevertheless  it  took  a good  hour  to  ac- 
complish it,  although  we  set  out  from  our  resting  place  with 
recruited  strength,  and  with  the  hope  of  soon  reaching  the 
summit.  On  reaching  the  top,  we  saw  again  a small  plain  be- 
fore us,  from  which  in  several  places  between  the  lava-rocks 
a white  sulphurous  steam  ascended.  The  ground  here  was 
more  or  less  hot  and  our  footsteps  produced  a hollow  sound. 
After  we  had  passed  rapidly  over  this  we  had  to  climb  an- 
other though  a lower  height,  and  then  beheld  at  a moder- 
ate distance  before  us  the  two  craters,  which  were  now  vom- 
iting fire.  We  sat  down  upon  the  ground  between  the  lava- 
rocks  and  found  ourselves  as  though  sitting  in  a heated  stove, 
for  a great  heat  rose  from  the  earth,  which  was  nevertheless 
very  agreeable  to  us.  After  we  had  rested  here  some  time, 
some  one  of  the  company  asked  whether  one  could  not  ascend 
between  the  two  cones  close  to  the  brink  of  the  crater?  All 
the  guides  replied  in  the  negative,  and  assured  us  it  was  very 
dangerous  to  approach  it  nearer.  We  saw  sufficiently  well 
ourselves  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  ascend  direct  from 
the  place  were  we  stood,  as  we  should  have  run  the  risk  of 
being  stifled  with  the  smoke  of  the  crater  upon  our  left.  But 
it  seemed  to  us  that  a way  might  possibly  be  found  round  the 
left  side  of  one  crater,  from  which  we  could  ascend  on  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


5 


windward  side  of  the  other;  so  we  immediately  proceeded  to 
make  the  trial  together;  after  some  objections  our  guides  fol- 
lowed also.  We  had  scarcely  proceeded  a distance  of  two 
hundred  paces,  when  one  of  the  craters  with  a fearful  report 
threw  out  a quantity  of  red-hot  stones,  some  of  which  fell  at 
no  great  distance  from  us.  This  soon  brought  the  whole  party 
to  a standstill;  but  after  some  little  hesitation  the  foremost 
proceeded  onward  and  the  rest  of  us  followed.  In  this  man- 
ner, after  a toilsome  passage,  we  reached  the  rear  of  the  left- 
hand  crater,  and  then  began  to  ascend  the  cone.  But  this 
was  the  most  laborious  task  of  the  whole  day,  for  we  had 
now  to  climb  a very  steep  incline  up  to  our  knees  in  ashes. 
Nevertheless,  after  great  exertion  we  reached  the  summit  and 
stood  on  the  narrow  edge  of  the  crater,  which,  in  the  form  of 
a funnel,  is  about  two  hundred  feet  in  diameter  at  the  upper 
part  of  the  opening.  After  we  had  taken  breath  here  awhile, 
and  contemplated  the  eruptions  of  the  other  crater,  which  lay 
before  us  to  leeward,  the  one  closeto  which  we  were  standing, 
became  suddenly  quite  clear  of  smoke,  and  we  could  look 
down  into  the  awful  abyss.  We  there  saw  large  cavernous 
fissures  between  the  masses  of  rock  forming  the  neck  of  the 
funnel,  out  of  which  flames  burst  at  intervals;  but  as  these 
were  immediately  followed  by  smoke,  this  sight  was  of  short 
continuance  only.  One  of  the  Englishmen  of  our  party  took 
it  into  his  head,  at  a moment  when  the  smoke  of  the  crater 
upon  the  brink  of  which  we  were  standing  was  somewhat  less, 
to  run  across  even  to  the  other,  in  order  to  look  down  into 
it.  But  scarcely  had  he  reached  the  brink,  when  an  eruption, 
though  fortunately  not  a very  strong  one,  took  place,  from  which 
he  had  barely  time  to  save  himself,  and  rush  back  again  to 
us.  At  the  same  moment  a third  crater  behind  us  began  to 
make  a noise,  and  it  was  now  indeed  high  time  that  we  should 
make  our  retreat.  Though  it  was  ashes  merely  that  it  threw 
up,  yet  by  the  timely  fear  with  which  it  filled  us,  it  was  our 
saviour  from  utter  destruction;  for  scarcely  had  we  reached 
our  old  halting-place  than  the  hitherto  very  quiet  crater  on  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


6 


brink  of  which  we  had  stood,  threw  out  such  a mass  of  red 
hot  stones,  exactly  in  the  direction  of  the  place  where  we 
had  stood,  that  we  should  all  have  been  struck  down  and 
overwhelmed  by  them  had  we  stopped  there  five  minutes  lon- 
ger. After  our  daring  party  had  recovered  from  the  terror 
which  had  seized  upon  all,  we  were  compelled  to  avow  our 
extreme  rashness  in  having  ventured  to  ascend  so  high  despite 
the  warnings  of  our  guides. 

We  now  once  more  bivouaked  upon  our  warm  place,  and 
recruited  our  spirits  with  the  provisions  we  had  brought  with 
us.  But  with  night  drawing  on,  far  away  from  every  living 
creature,  and  surrounded  on  all  sides  by  desolation,  it  was  a 
fearful  reflexion  to  think  that  we  sat  here  suspended  as  it 
were  over  a sea  of  fire,  upon  a perhaps  not  very  thick  crust, 
which  sooner  or  later  might  give  way  beneath  us.  Several 
of  our  party  made  the  observation,  that  it  was  indeed  a mad 
piece  of  folly  to  have  risked  life  upon  chances  so  eminently 
possible,  for  the  mere  gratification  of  an  idle  curiosity.  But 
these  reflexions  nevertheless  did  not  prevent  us  from  enjoying 
with  much  relish  the  eggs  our  guides  had  brought  with  them 
and  cooked  in  the  hot  ashes,  and  which  we  washed  down  with 
a draught  of  delicious  Lacryma  Christi . 

We  here  awaited  the  approach  of  night;  saw  the  sun  sink 
below  the  sea,  and  the  full  moon  rise  behind  the  craters,  her 
yellow  light  forming  a beautiful  contrast  with  the  red  flames 
that  issued  from  them.  On  our  right  we  saw  at  the  same 
time  the  reflexion  from  the  burning  lava  which  poured  from 
an  opening  in  the  side  of  the  mountain,  which  however  it  was 
impossible  to  approach  without  the  greatest  danger. 

About  seven  o’clock  we  set  out  upon  our  return,  which 
at  first,  from  our  being  obliged  to  descend  on  the  shaded  side 
of  the  mountain  was  on  account  of  the  darkness  both  very 
difficult  and  dangerous.  But  when  we  arrived  at  the  precipit- 
ous places,  our  guides  led  baGk  us  by  another  way,  where 
we  slid  down  with  giant  steps  over  deep  ashes.  Below  we 
found  our  asses,  upon  which  we  rode  to  Portici  by  a magni- 


Digitized  by  Google 


7 


ficent  moonlight.  At  ten  o’clock  at  night  we  arrived  once  more 
at  Naples,  highly  gratified  with  the  extremely  interesting  day’s 
adventures. 


February  7. 

During  the  constant  fine  spring  weather  we  daily  take  a 
walk  to  see  the  immediate  environs  of  the  city.  The  favorite 
walk  of  the  children  is  to  the  quay,  on  which  is  the  light- 
house, partly  because  the  busy  life  in  the  port  itself,  as  well 
as  the  sight  of  the  different  kinds  of  vessels,  from  the  ship  of 
war  mounting  a hundred  guns  down  to  the  fisherman’s  boat, 
affords  them  immense  pleasure,  and  partly  because  the  way 
leading  to  it  presents  the  most  lively  picture  of  the  habits  and 
occupations  of  the  lower  classes.  From  the  St.  Carlo  theatre 
to  the  harbour  there  is,  next  to  the  Toledo-street,  always  the 
greatest  crowd ; at  a short  distance  from  which  are  all  the  small 
hole-and-corner  theatres,  where  performances  take  place  all  the 
day  long  and  where,  upon  a platform  outside,  a couple  of  fid- 
dlers and  a merry-Andrew  constantly  invite  the  passers-by  to 
enter.  Between  these  are  the  booths  of  the  itinerant  vendors, 
who,  perched  upon  a table,  recommend  their  medicaments  to 
their  numerous  listeners  and  purchasers.  Upon  the  quay,  where 
there  is  no  noise  from  the  carts  and  carriages,  the  puppet- 
show  players  pitch  their  portative  theatres,  and  the  Improvi - 
satori  entertain  the  Neapolitans  with  the  heroic  feats  of  their 
ancestors.  Sometimes  one  of  these  reads  aloud  to  his  auditory 
and  then  explains  what  he  has  been  reading.  But  here  also 
swarm  the  most  impudent  and  disgusting  beggars,  and  the 
most  expert  pick-pockets;  so  that  one  cannot  be  too  careful 
how  one  gets  mixed  up  with  them.  On  my  first  walks  into 
that  quarter  I lost  my  pocket  handkerchief  each  time.  If  one 
waits  here  till  the  evening  the  Vesuvius,  with  its  red  fire,  pre- 
sents a singular  and  magnificent  contrast  with  the  white  lights 
of  the  Pharos. 

The  Royal  garden  on  the  Chiaja  is  also  another  very  in- 
teresting walk.  It  extends  for  a considerable  length  close  to  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


8 


sea,  and  consists  of  three  very  broad  alleys  with  small  flower- 
beds laid  out  in  the  English  style.  It  is  ornamented  with  sev- 
eral fine  statues  and  groups  in  marble;  in  the  centre  stands 
the  celebrated  Farnesian  Bull,  a splendid  antique  by  a Greek 
master;  on  both  sides  are  several  fine  copies  of  ancient  works 
of  art,  such  as  that  of  the  Apollo  of  Belvedere,  the  rape  of 
the  Sabines,  &c.  &c.  From  eleven  in  the  forenoon  on  fine  days, 
the  beau  monde  assembles  here  to  look  and  to  be  looked  at. 
If  one  proceeds  still  farther  along  the  Chiaja,  one  soon  comes 
to  the  road  that  leads  through  the  Grotto  of  Pausilippo  to 
Puzzuoli.  This  long  gallery,  extending  at  least  for  a thou- 
sand paces  right  through  a mountain  of  considerable  height, 
is  very  remarkable  of  its  kind,  for  the  galleries  cut  through 
the  rocks  in  the  road  over  the  Simplon  are  but  child’s  play 
compared  to  this  work.  The  entrance  on  this  side  between 
towering  rocks  is  exceedingly  romantic;  at  a great  distance 
off  the  noise  of  the  carriages  driving  through  resembles  thun- 
der, and  it  is  said  that  at  night,  when  all  is  quiet  here, 
the  sound  of  the  vehicles  in  the  streets  of  Naples,  is  echoed 
through  this  rocky  gallery  like  that  of  distant  thunder.  The 
interior  is  lighted  day  and  night  with  numerous  lamps.  At 
the  entrance  and  in  the  middle  are  little  chapels,  at  which 
the  passengers  are  solicited  for  alms.  Above  the  entrance  high 
up  on  the  rocks,  a small  grotto  is  pointed  out,  where  the  in- 
mortal poet  Virgil  lies  buried. 

A few  days  ago  we  visited  also  Fort  St.  Elmo,  from  which 
one  has  an  extensive  view  over  the  whole  city  and  of  the  ex- 
pansive bay. 


February  12. 

Last  evening  we  returned  from  a delightful  excursion  to 
the  islands.  On  Sunday  at  noon,  in  company  with  our  three 
Silesian  countryman,  we  went  across  to  Ischia  in  a hired  boat. 
We  were  at  first  obliged  to  sail  round  the  promontary  of  Pau- 
silippo : Nisida  and  Procida  lay  quite  close  to  us,  Cape  Micen 
somewhat  in  the  background,  and  Ischia  at  a greater  distance, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


9 


in  a direct  line  before  us.  These  islands  and  promontories 
with  their  steep,  and  towering  rocks  close  to  the  sea,  and  the 
rich  fertility  of  their  interior,  present  every  moment  and  on 
every  side  on  which  they  are  beheld  new  aspects  of  varying 
interest,  now  of  a beautiful  and  now  of  a bolder  and  grander 
character.  Procida,  in  particular,  one  of  the  most  populated 
spots  of  the  whole  world,  presents  a magnificent  view  from 
the  sea,  the  whole  lisland  having  the  appearance  of  a large 
city.  As  the  wind  blew  tolerably  fresh  and  against  us,  night 
came  on  before  we  could  reach  Ischia.  But  the  beauty  of  the 
evening  would  not  permit  us  to  regret  our  having  been  de- 
layed. The  stars  shone  with  a brightness  such  as  in  Germany 
at  least  they  are  never  seen  to  shine  with;  and  Venus  in  par- 
ticular was  resplendent  with  so  clear  a light  that  its  beams 
were  reflected  in  the  sea  like  those  of  the  moon,  and  one  could 
plainly  discern  a shadow  from  any  intervening  object.  The  sea, 
also,  at  every  stroke  of  the  oar  shone  as  with  the  light  of 
myriads  of  glowworms.  About  eight  o’clock  we  at  length  landed 
at  the  north  shore  of  the  island  and  found  a comfortable 
night-lodging  in  the  handsome  house  of  a clergyman. 

On  the  next  morning  we  soon  set  out  upon  our  way  to 
see  the  interior  of  the  island  and  to  ascend  the  Epomeo.  As 
at  Ischia  there  are  neither  vehicles  nor  roads  to  travel  on,  we 
all  mounted  upon  asses,  which  carried  us  more  conveniently 
and  safely  over  the  rocky  and  uneven  ground.  After  passing 
through  several  level  tracts  in  the  highest  cultivation  we  came 
to  the  small  but  lively  town  of  Ischia,  on  the  sea-shore,  and 
onward  to  the  foot  of  the  Epomeo  between  vineyards  to  the 
opposite  side  of  the  mountain,  where  it  is  more  convenient  to 
climb.  After  we  had  ascended  about  half-way  by  very  bad 
roads,  we  halted  for  an  hour  to  rest  and  refresh  the  animals, 
and  then  completed  the  other  still  more  toilsome  part  of  the 
ascent.  Meanwhile  the  sky  had  unfortunately  become  over- 
cast with  clouds,  and  upon  reaching  the  summit  of  the  moun- 
tain we  were  enveloped  in  a thick  mist.  We  then  entered  a 
a hermitage  of  some  size,  consisting  of  several  rooms  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


10 


passages,  and  of  a chapel.  It  resembles  that  at  Freiburg  in 
Switzerland,  and  like  that  also  is  hewn  out  of  the  solid  rock, 
by  two  industrians  recluses.  We  waited  here  some  time  in 
the  hope  that  the  weather  would  clear  up,  and  several  times 
also  we  had  a glimpse  between  the  clouds  over  the  level  parts 
of  the  island,  which  lay  like  a map  outspread  in  the  distance 
before  us;  but  Naples,  Capri,  and  Sorrento  were  veiled  from 
our  sight.  We  were  at  length  obliged  to  set  out  on  our  way 
once  more,  without  having  had  the  pleasure  of  enjoying  the 
fine  view  from  here,  which  is  perhaps  one  of  the  finest  in  the 
world,  and  had  already  considered  our  toilsome  journey  as  a 
labour  in  vain,  when  on  a sudden,  after  we  had  descended 
somewhat  lower  and  stood  under  the  stratum  of  clouds,  the 
magnificent  view  of  the  whole  of  the  islands,  promontories  and 
bay,  with  Vesuvius  smoking  in  the  background,  displayed  itself 
to  our  enraptured  eyes.  Long  we  stood  lost  in  admiration  of 
the  singular  beauty  of  the  scene,  and  at  length,  when  the  set- 
ting sun  gave  token  of  departure,  we  returned  by  the  shortest 
but  steepest  road,  where  we  could  make  no  use  of  the  asses, 
to  our  quarter  of  the  previous  night.  The  Epomeo,  which 
450  years  ago  was  a volcano,  exhibits  on  this  side,  which  is 
much  more  wild  and  barren  than  the  other,  numerous  traces 
of  former  eruptions.  The  road  led  now  almost  continually 
over  weather-worn  lava.  Upon  the  rocks  we  saw  at  very 
frequent  intervals  the  stock-gilliflower  in  bloom,  which  here 
and  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Naples  grows  wild.  On  the  way- 
side  violets  and  other  plants,  several  of  which  are  not  in- 
digenous with  us,  were  in  full  flower,  and  in  the  gardens,  the 
almond  tree.  At  length  we  came  to  a place  where  there  are 
warm  baths,  which  in  summer  are  much  frequented  by  the 
Neapolitans.  At  the  house  of  our  host  we  found  a plentifully 
spread  table  awaiting  us,  which  after  all  the  fatigue  of  the  day 
was  exceedingly  acceptable.  A fiery  white  Ischian  wine  of  the 
year  1811  we  found  especially  agreeable  to  the  palate. 

We  re-embarked  the  next  morning  at  eight  o’clock  and 
landed  first  at  Cape  Micenus,  where  we  visited  the  large  sub- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


11 


terranean  reservoirs  of  soft  water  from  which  the  Roman  fleets 
were  supplied,  and  the  cento  earner e of  Nero,  which  were  pro- 
bably prisons  for  the  detention  of  prisoners  of  war.  We  then 
sailed  right  across  the  bay  to  Puzzuoli,  and  there  made  an- 
other pilgrimage  to  some  antiquities.  On  running  into  the  har- 
bour we  sailed  past  the  still  standing  piers  and  arches  of  the 
bridge  of  Caligulay  which  that  Emperor  designed  throwing 
across  the  bay.  Although  built  of  bricks  merely,  such  is  the 
excellence  of  the  cement  used  in  their  construction,  that  their 
remains,  after  the  lapse  of  so  many  centuries,  still  bid  defiance 
to  the  unceasing  action  of  the  waves. 

Our  cicerone  led  us  first  to  the  Solfatara.  a round  level 
field-like  space  enclosed  on  all  sides  with  rocks,  apparently  a 
crater  which  at  some  remote  period  had  fallen  in.  The  sub- 
terranean fire  still  burns  beneath,  nevertheless,  for  in  many 
places  smoke  issues  out  of  the  earth,  and  as  on  Mount  Vesu- 
vius, deposits  sulphur.  At  those  places  the  ground  is  burning 
hot,  and  the  foot-tread  sounds  hollow.  Our  guide  flung  a large 
stone  upon  the  ground,  which  made  it  vibrate  for  a consider- 
able distance  round  us,  and  produced  a very  loud,  hollow 
sound.  Thence  we  proceeded  to  another  subterranean  reser- 
voir of  water  similar  to  that  at  Cape  Micenus;  inspected  the 
ruins  of  an  amphitheatre  and  several  temples,  and  at  last  reached 
the  most  interesting  antiquity  in  the  whole  neighbourhood  — 
the  ruins  of  the  temple  of  Serapis,  close  to  the  sea-shore.  So 
much  has  been  written  respecting  all  these  antiquities,  that  it 
would  be  superfluous  to  dwell  upon  them  here,  but  the  remains 
of  the  temple  of  Serapis  are  so  remarkable,  and  afford  such 
evidence  of  its  former  size  and  grandeur  that  to  see  them  alone 
amply  repays  a journey  here.  Towards  the  evening  we  drove 
back  to  Naples  through  the  grotto  of  Pausilippo. 

February  15. 

As  I have  now  been  several  times  to  the  St.  Carlo  theatre, 
I can  with  confidence  put  my  judgment  to  paper  respecting  it. 
On  the  first  visit  I experienced  the  same  feeling  as  in  the  church 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


12 


of  St.  Peter:  it  did  not  appear  to  me  so  large  as  it  really  is, 
and  it  was  not  until  I had  been  frequently  told  that  it  is  four 
feet  wider  and  I know  not  how  many  longer  than  the  theatre 
at  Milan,  that  I could  believe  it.  But  when  the  curtain  drew 
up  and  I could  compare  the  size  of  the  human  beings  with 
the  painted  objects  of  the  decorations,  I readily  observed  that 
here  also  I had  been  deceived  by  the  correct  proportions  of 
each  gigantic  object.  Here  for  the  first  time  the  horses  intro- 
duced on  the  stage  did  not  appear  out  of  proportion  with  the 
rest,  and  the  people  one  saw  at  the  extreme  depth  of  the  the- 
atre, were  still  in  just  proportion  with  objects  which  surrounded 
them.  For  ballet  and  pantomine  I know  of  no  better  adapted 
locality,  and  military  evolutions  of  infantry  and  cavalry,  battles, 
storms  at  sea,  and  such  things  can  be  produced  without  falling 
into  the  ridiculous  and  the  paltry;  but  for  operas  the  house 
is  too  large.  Although  the  singers,  Madame  Colbran  and  Sig- 
nori Nozzari,  Benedetti,  and  others,  have  very  powerful  voices, 
yet  one  hears  only  the  highest  notes  given  out  with  the  full 
strain  of  the  voice;  but  all  tender  pathos  in  song  is  wholly 
lost.  This  is  said  not  to  have  been  the  case  before  the  fire, 
and  the  theatre  was  then  quite  as  sonorous  as  Della  Scala  at 
Milan.  This  prejudicial  change  is  ascribed  to  three  causes  first, 
the  proscenium  has  been  widened  by  several  feet;  secondly,  the 
ceiling  is  not  so  concave  as  formerly;  and  thirdly,  the  high 
projecting  decorations  in  stucco  obstruct  the  sound  and  do  not 
send  it  back.  If  the  house  was  in  reality  so  sonorous  formerly, 
then  they  have  greatly  deadened  that  faculty  in  the  new  build- 
ing, and  they  would  do  very  wisely  to  eject  (the  sooner  the 
better)  all  the  unnecessary  trumpery  of  ornament  and  gildings, 
which  besides  is  exceedingly  heavy  and  not  in  the  best  taste, 
and  so  regain  the  former  advantages. 

The  first  opera  I saw  was  “Gabriele  de  Vergi”  by  Count 
Caraffa,  who  formerly  was  a dilettant  merely,  but  now  as  a 
younger  son  without  means,  is  become  an  artiste,  and  as  such 
strives  to  earn  a subsistence.  The  opera  pleased  me  very  much, 
but  without  being  altogether  particularly  attractive  for  me.  The 


Digitized  by  foozle 


13 


style  is  even  and  dignified,  but  the  orchestra  is  too  much  over- 
laden, and  the  voice  parts  are  too  much  obscured.  The  execution 
was  very  precise,  both  on  the  part  of  the  singers  and  of  the 
orchestra.  The  latter,  under  the  correct  and  spirited  but  some- 
what too  loud  direction  of  Signor  Festa , had  studied  it  well, 
but  were  somewhat  wanting  in  nuances  of  piano  and  forte ; 
the  wind  instruments  in  particular  are  always  too  loud  in  the 
piano . Of  the  singers  nothing  further  can  be  said  than  that 
they  have  good  and  powerful  voices.  Whether  they  have  a 
good  execution  cannot  be  ascertained  in  this  theatre;  for  one 
hears  them  either  singing  at  the  top  of  their  voices,  or  one  can- 
not hear  them  at  all.  After  the  opera  Duporfs  ballet  of  “Cin- 
derella” was  given,  the  decorations,  costumes,  &c.,  of  which 
were  of  a very  expensive  character.  Besides  Duport  and  his 
wife,  the  dancer  Vestris  attracted  much  notice.  The  music  was 
nearly  the  same  as  that  we  heard  in  Vienna  in  that  ballet;  a 
polonaise  newly  introduced  by  Count  Gallenberg,  the  ballet-com- 
poser here,  pleased  greatly  from  its  originality  and  sweetness. 

Another  opera,  also  by  a dilettant,  Signor  Carlo  Saccenti , 
was  given  a week  ago,  after  a three  months’  study  and  re- 
hearsal. The  king,  who  is  a great  patron  of  the  composer,  had 
fixed  on  it  for  the  opening  of  the  San  Carlo  theatre,  and  Mayer , 
who  had  been  sent  for  here  by  the  impresario,  to  write  a new 
opera  for  the  occasion,  was  obliged  to  keep  his  back.  But  as 
it  was  afterwards  found  that  it  would  be  impossible  to  be  per- 
fect in  it  by  the  day  appointed  for  the  opening,  Mayer  was 
permitted  to  write  a Cantata  in  all  haste,  with  which  on  the 
12th  January  the  theatre  was  at  length  opened.  This  can- 
tata, through  written  with  great  despatch,  is  said  nevertheless, 
according  to  the  opinion  of  connoisseurs  to  contain  a good  deal 
of  fine  music;  but  as  the  text  or  subject  was  the  burning  of 
the  theatre,  one  little  calculated  for  composition,  it  could  not 
well  have  been  other  than  a somewhat  tame  production.  Nor 
could  it  be  expected,  with  the  little  attention  given  to  it  by 
the  public,  more  occupied  with  the  brilliant  illumination  of 
the  house  and  the  splendour  and  Spanish  etiquette  which  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


14 


court  displayed  at  the  opening  of  the  theatre,  that  the  reception 
given  by  the  public  to  the  cantata  should  have  been  other 
than  a very  cold  one.  Nevertheless,  it  was  not  properly  speak- 
ing a failure.  After  this  had  been  brought  out,  the  study  of 
Saceenti’s  opera  was  again  resumed.  All  that  reached  the  pub- 
lic concerning  these  rehearsals  was  very  unfavourable.  His 
friends  said  he  had  composed  a work  which  from  its  origin- 
ality and  excellence  would  produce  a complete  reform  in  oper- 
atic compositions : the  singers  and  musicians,  on  the  other  hand, 
said  that  in  all  their  lives  they  had  never  sung  or  played  any- 
thing more  villanous,  tedious  and  incorrect  than  that  unfor- 
tunate opera.  The  impartial  conjectured  that,  as  is  usual  with 
such  conflicting  opinions,  the  truth  would  lie  in  the  mean; 
but  I soon  satisfied  myself,  after  a few  rehearsals  which  I 
attended,  that  the  musicians  were  perfectly  right  in  the  judg- 
ment they  had  formed  of  it.  It  would  indeed  be  scarcely  pos- 
sible to  put  together  a more  outrageous  piece  of  music,  even 
if  one  strove  expressly,  and  with  the  greatest  industry  to  act 
contrary  to  all  the  most  approved  rules  of  rhythm,  structure 
of  the  periods,  harmony  and  instrumentation.  There  was  no 
trace  of  song  or  sensible  carrying  out  of  an  idea;  every  third 
bar  was  something  else,  with  the  most  incorrect  modulations. 
In  the  very  beginning  of  the  introduction  three  ugly  quints 
follow  each  other  in  quick  succession.  One  of  the  musicians 
from  recollection  said  that  the  composer  justified  it  very  in- 
geniously with  the  example  of  the  English  sailor  who  was  brought 
before  a magistrate  for  having  married  three  wives,  but  whom 
the  law  could  not  reach  as  it  forbade  bigamy  only,  and  made 
no  mention  of  trigamy;  in  the  same  manner,  said  the  compo- 
ser, it  is  forbidden  to  have  two  quints  in  succession,  but  by 
having  three  the  penally  contemplated  by  the  law  was  evaded. 

After  rehearsals  innumerable,  the  representation  took 
place  in  the  presence  of  the  court  and  with  a crowded  house. 
Notwithstanding  the  here  prevailing  formal  Spanish  etiquette, 
which  commands  that  the  curtain  shall  be  drawn  up  imme- 
diately the  king  enters  the  box  and  which  constrains  the  poor 


Digitized  by 


Google 


15 


singers  to  exhibit  themselves  on  the  stage  during  the  whole  du- 
ration of  the  overture,  without  being  able  to  move  in  the 
spirit  of  the  characters  they  impersonate ; and  which  moreover 
forbids  every  demonstration  of  applause  or  of  disapprobation; 
despite  this  constraint,  which  impedes  free  judgment,  the  opera 
was  hissed  in  optima  forma.  On  the  following  night  it  had  the 
same  fate,  without  a single  friend  of  the  composer’s  daring  to 
clap  a hand.  With  this  second  representation,  at  which  I was 
present,  the  opera  was  for  ever  consigned  to  the  tomb.  It  is 
called  “Aganadeca its  author  is  Signor  Vincenzio  de  Ritis. 
The  subject,  from  Ossian , is  said  not  to  be  without  merit,  and 
it  is  regretted  that  it  did  not  fall  into  the  hands  of  a better 
composer.  The  latter,  however  is  not  sensible  of  his  own  de- 
fiency;  he  ascribes  its  failure  to  the  little  musical  judgment  of 
the  Neapolitan  public,  and  intends  sending  his  work  to  Germany. 
May  Apollo  and  the  muses  bestow  their  blessings  upon  it! 

February  20. 

The  Carneval  came  to  a close  yesterday,  and  the  fasts  have 
begun.  After  the  noise  of  the  last  day  of  the  carneval,  the 
quiet  which  has  now  succeeded  does  one  really  good,  although 
the  evenings  are  somewhat  dull,  as  all  the  theatres  are  closed 
for  four  days.  At  the  St.  Carlo  theatre  instead  of  the  custo- 
mary oratorios  this  year  operas  will  be  given  as  usual,  but 
without  ballets,  which  are  wholly  forbidden  at  this  season.  At 
the  Fiorentino  theatre  we  saw  an  opera  of  Guglielmi  (son), 
uPaolo  e Virgina which  met  with  some  success.  But  the  mu- 
sic of  the  third  act  is  quite  Italian  for  insipidity,  in  which 
Paul , during  a storm  at  sea,  sings  an  air  in  the  usual  form, 
and  with  the  usual  insipid  intermediate  acting,  exhausting  him- 
self in  shakes  and  passages,  when  he  would  act  much  more 
sensibly  if  he  hastened  to  the  assistance  of  his  loved  one.  This 
sea-storm  without  an  appropriate  music  was  therefore  the  most 
ridiculous  thing  I ever  saw  at  a theatre,  and  solicited  no  sym- 
pathy for  the  whole  affair  from  the  spectators.  It  is  true  the 
machinery  also  at  this  theatre  was  most  mean  and  childish. 


Digitized  by  Google 


Among  the  singers  Mesdames  Chabran  and  Canonid  distinguished 
themselves  greatly.  The  former  has  a fine  soprano  voice,  great 
ease  of  execution  and  a good  school;  the  latter  the  same  qua- 
lifications with  a powerful  contralto  voice.  They  had  parti- 
cularly well  studied  their  duets.  In  this  theatre  we  found  for 
the  first  time  in  Italy,  with  a full  house  and  a frequently  re- 
peated performance,  a quiet  and  sympathetic  audience.  The 
house  is  roomy  and  prettily  decorated,  but  the  stage  very  small 
and  narrow. 

I had  expected  the  end  of  the  carneval  to  have  been  far 
more  gay  than  I found  it.  The  whole  amusement  consisted 
in  the  crowding  together  of  half  Naples,  masked  and  unmasked, 
in  vehicles  and  on  foot  in  the  street  of  Toledo,  where  they 
moved  up  and  down  and  pelted  each  other  with  little  balls  of 
gypsum.  The  masks  of  the  carriages  were  provided  for  the 
purpose  with  whole  baskets  full  of  these  little  bullets,  and  with 
shovels,  so  as  to  enable  them  to  throw  them  up  to  the  bal- 
conies. They  carried  tin  shields  on  the  left  arm,  with  which 
to  ward  off  the  missiles  of  other  maskers.  As  these  were  fre- 
quently of  a tolerable  size  and  were  thrown  with  full  force, 
the  fun  frequently  proved  somewhat  rough  for  those  persons 
who  were  not  masked,  and  many  a lady  must  doubtless  have 
taken  home  with  her  a few  blue  marks  on  her  neck  and  arm. 
Nevertheless  all  was  borne  with  good  humour  and  without  dis- 
pute, as  the  liberty  conferred  by  the  mask  serves  to  excuse 
all  impoliteness.  The  masqued  balls  at  the  San  Carlo  theatre 
are  said  to  have  been  somewhat  wearisome  affairs;  although 
there  was  no  want  of  masks  in  character,  yet  there  was  very 
little  wit  and  ability  to  personate  the  characters  in  accordance 
with  the  costume  and  manners  of  the  period. 


February  26. 

I have  been  twice  to  the  conservatory  of  music.  The  first 
time  I was  present  at  a practice  concert  of  the  pupils,  in  which 
several  overtures,  or  first  themes  of  symphony  composed  by 
one  of  them,  who  at  the  same  is  first  violin  also,  were  tried. 


Digitized  by  Google 


17 


They  were  not  devoid  of  fancy,  but  in  form  and  instrumenta- 
tion complete  imitations  of  the  overtures  of  Rossini , which  cer- 
tainly are  not  calculated  to  serve  as  models.  The  execution 
was  but  tolerable;  the  young  folks,  particularly  the  viplinists, 
have  no  school  at  all ; they  know  neither  how  they  should  hold 
the  violin  nor  the  bow,  and  play  neither  purely  nor  distinctly. 
Nor  can  it  be  otherwise  with  the  bad  instruction  they  receive. 
Festa,  the  only  violinist  here  of  a good  school,  is  not  employed 
in  the  conservatory  of  music.  It  is  highly  reprehensible  that 
the  young  people  are  permitted  to  give  their  practise-concerts 
without  the  superintendence  and  guidance  of  their  instructors ; 
their  first  violin  and  director,  who  is  himself  still  a pupil,  is 
wholly  wanting  in  self  possession  and  judgment.  He  bungles 
the  allegro  tempi  in  such  a manner  that  all  distinctness  is  out 
of  the  question.  Among  the  wind  instruments,  a hornist,  a lad 
of  eleven  years  of  age,  is  very  remarkable.  On  the  occasion 
of  the  second  concert  at  which  I was  present,  two  singers  made 
their  appearance,  who  had  neither  good  voices  nor  a good  me- 
thod. All  that  I have  yet  heard,  is  far  inferior  to  what  the 
Milan  musical  students  can  perform.  Signor  Zingarelli,  direc- 
tor of  the  conservatory  here,  and  teacher  of  the  theory  of  mu- 
sic and  singing  may  possess  many  qualifications  as  a composer 
of  operas;  but  it  is  generally  said  that  since  his  appointment 
the  conservatory  has  very  much  declined.  That  he  at  least 
does  not  know  how  an  orchestra  should  be  conducted  or  a 
symphony  executed,  he  proves  by  allowing  so  quietly  these 
things  to  take  place  in  his  presence.  Of  the  merits  of  our 
German  composers  he  has  some  very  erroneous  notions.  One 
day,  when  I paid  him  a visit,  he  spoke  for  a long  time  of 
Haydn  and  other  of  our  composers  with  great  respect,  but 
without  even  once  mentioning  Mozart;  I therefore  turned  the 
conversation  upon  the  latter,  upon  which  he  said:  “Yes,  he 
also  was  not  deficient  in  talent,  but  he  lived  too  short  a time  to 
cultivate  it  in  a proper  manner;  if  he  could  only  have  con- 
tinued to  study  ten  years  longer,  he  would  then  have  been 
able  to  write  something  good.”! 

8POHR,  Autobiography.  II.  2 


Digitized  by  foozle 


18 


March  3. 

An  opera  has  been  again  put  on  the  stage  written  by 
Mayer  several  years  ago.  It  is  called  “Cora”  and  is  founded 
on  the  same  subject  as  Kotzebue’s  ‘‘Sonnenjungfrau”  (Virgin  of 
the  Sun).  There  are  certainly  some  tine  passages  in  the  mu- 
sic, but  taken  as  a whole  it  has  not  satisfied  my  expectations 
of  Mayer’s  music.  He  is  after  all  deeply  tinctured  with  the 
Italian  maimer  and  almost  wholly  an  apostate  from  the  Ger- 
man. His  method  of  carrying  out  the  vocalisation  and  his  in- 
strumentation are  thoroughly  Italian.  This  certainly  is  not  to 
be  wondered  at,  for  since  the  age  of  fourteen  he  has  lived  in 
Italy,  and  never  wrote  for  any  other  than  Italian  audiences. 
I think,  that  apart  from  his  natural  talent,  he  has  raised  him- 
self above  the  others  alone  by  having  always  endeavoured  to 
procure  all  the  best  German  works,  which  he  studied,  and 
made  use  of,  the  latter  indeed  sometimes  a little  too  much. 
Throughout  Italy,  and  here  in  particular,  he  is  very  much  ad- 
mired and  liked:  he  merits  it  also  in  very  respect,  and  as  a 
man  is  ever  the  upright,  smooth-smoken  unassuming  German. 
He  is  much  attached  to  his  fatherland,  and  seems  only  to  re- 
gret that  it  was  not  his  fate  to  pursue  his  career  as  a com- 
poser in  Germany.  In  Bergamo,  where  he  is  director  of  the 
orchestra,  he  now  only  desires  to  live  in  retirement,  and  write 
solely  for  his  church.  He  assured  me  that  nothing  but  the 
honour  of  writing  for  the  reopening  of  the  San  Carlo  theatre 
could  have  induced  him  to  leave  his  retreat  once  more,  but 
that  the  opera  %,La  vendetta  di  Juiione,”  which  he  had  now 
completed,  should  certainly  be  his  last  work  for  the  theatre. 
In  uCora”  the  favorite  piece  with  the  public  is  the  finale,  con- 
sisting of  a theme  in  three  variations  in  the  old  style  of  Pleyel ; 
one  of  the  singers  sings  the  theme,  Daiide  the  first  variation 
in  quavers,  then  Noegari  the  second  in  triplets,  and  in  con- 
clusion la  Colbran  the  third  in  semiquavers.  At  it  is  well  sung, 
it  greatly  pleases  the  public,  and  critics  therefore  must  be 
silent. 


Digitized  by  Google 


19 


March  6. 

Last  evening  Signor  Pio  Chianchettino  gave  a concert  in 
the  Fondo  theatre.  He  is  a nephew  and  pupil  of  Dussek,  and 
played  two  concertos  of  that  master  in  his  manner.  Although 
his  play  was  pure,  distinct  and  even  full  of  expression,  yet 
here  again,  as  every-where  else,  the  piano-forte  as  concert- 
instrument  proved  itself  insufficient  to  awaken  the  enthusiasm 
of  an  audience ; and  the  more  so  is  this  the  greater  the  size  of 
the  place.  For  that  reason  also  upon  this  occasion,  the  song- 
pieces  pleased  far  more  than  the  concertos,  although  no  one 
could  find  fault  with  his  play.  I myself  felt  this  also;  for  al- 
though I am  very  fond  of  the  piano,  when  a composer  rich  in 
ideas  improvises  upon  it,  yet  as  concert-instrument  I am  wholly 
unmoved  by  it;  and  a piano-forte-concerto  in  my  opinion  is  only 
effective  when  written  like  those  of  Mozart , in  which  the  piano 
is  not  much  more  thought  of  than  any  other  orchestral  in- 
strument. The  singers,  Madame  Chabran  and  the  Signori  Da- 
vide,  Nozzari  and  Benedetti , all  distinguished  themselves,  and* 
were  loudly  applauded.  One  becomes  more  sensible  of  their 
merits  when  one  hears  them  in  a smaller  place  than  the  San 
Carlo  theatre.  Davide  and  Nozzari  may  be  called  almost  per- 
fect singers,  they  both  have  very  fine  voices;  the  former  a 
very  high  tenor,  the  latter  a high  baritone,  remarkable  fluency 
of  execution  and  much  true  expression.  Benedetti  has  a very 
fine  bass  voice,  but  sings  rather  coldly. 

March  7. 

We  have  again  taken  some  rather  more  distant  and  highly 
interesting  walks.  The  object  of  one  was  the  Camaldula  con- 
vent, which  is  situated  upon  a hill  above  two  hours’  drive  from 
the  centre  of  the  city.  We  rode  as  far  as  the  foot  of  the 
mountain,  where  as  the  carriage  road  terminated,  we  were 
obliged  to  make  the  ascent  on  foot.  The  view  from  the  convent 
garden  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most  extensive  and  beautiful  in 
the  world.  On  one  side  are  seen  Ischia,  Capri,  Prodda,  Ni- 
sida  and  the  promontories  which  we  had  visited  in  our  previous 

a* 


Digitized  by  Google 


20 


excursion,  accompanied  by  the  blue  mirror  of  the  sea ; on  the 
opposite  side  Capua,  Caserta,  and  in  the  back-ground  the  snow- 
covered  mountains ; on  the  side  of  Naples  a part  of  the  city  it- 
self, the  whole  bay  with  the  opposite  coast,  and  on  the  left 
the  smoke  - emitting  Vesuvius;  lastly,  on  the  fourth  side,  the 
shores  and  salient  promontories  near  Gaeta,  as  far  as  Terra- 
cina.  As  the  weather  was  very  propitious  for  us,  this  was  one 
of  the  most  magnificent  days  we  ever  passed  in  the  enjoyment 
of  the  beauties  of  nature.  The  monks,  some  of  whom  we 
caught  sight  of,  did  not  appear  in  the  same  humour  as  we 
were;  for  they  all  wore  a gloomy  aspect. 

We  took  a shorter  but  not  less  interesting  walk  on  the 
new  road  to  Rome,  which  was  begun  under  Murat,  but  has  re- 
mained unfinished  since  his  dethronement.  It  leads  over  a 
mountain  from  which  one  has  the  most  admirable  view  of  the 
city,  and  it  is  much  to  be  regretted  that  it  is  not  complete; 
for  then  the  traveller  would  be  able  to  form  a more  worthy 
conception  of  the  city  before  his  entry  into  Naples,  while  now 
by  the  old  road,  which  winds  through  a narrow  mountain  ra- 
vine, he  sees  nothing  of  Naples  until  he  has  entered  the  most 
dirty  and  least  attractive  part  of  the  city;  which  leaves  him 
long  in  doubt  whether  he  actually  is  in  the  world -famed 
Naples. 

We  passed  a very  pleasant  day  at  the  villa  of  the  ban- 
ker Heigelin , which  is  situated  also  upon  a mountain  near  the 
Strada  Nuova,  whence  one  has  a beautiful  view.  Old  Heigelin, 
an  amiable,  open-hearted  German,  has  ornamented  this  place  of 
his  own  creation  with  so  many  fine  things,  such  as  grottoes,  ruins, 
temples,  fountains,  &c.  &c.,  that  it  would  be  actually  impossible 
to  crowd  any  thing  more  together  in  so  small  a space.  Al- 
though perhaps  the  whole  is  somewhat  frivolous  as  regards  the 
manner  in  which  it  is  laid  out,  it  has  nevertheless  many  indi- 
vidual things  worthy  of  attention.  For  us  Northerns,  for  in- 
stance, the  vast  number  of  exotic  plants,  which  were  for  the 
most  part  in  full  bloom,  were  objects  of  great  interest. 


Digitized  by  Google 


21 


March  11. 

Last  evening  our  concert  took  place.  As  the  impressario 
of  the  court  theatres,  Barbaja , an  extremely  selfish  man,  asked 
me  too  much  money  for  the  hire  of  the  theatres,  for  the  Fondo 
for  instance  100  Neapolitan  ducats  and  for  the  San  Carlo  200 
even,  I adopted  his  proposal  rather  to  give  my  concert  in  the 
assembly-room  of  the  San  Carlo  theatre,  which  he  offered  me  lit 
up  for  nothing.  This  apparently  disinterested  offer  was  never- 
theless calculated  also  for  his  advantage,  for  the  assembly-room 
and  the  adjoining  rooms  were  the  places  for  the  hazard-tables, 
which  he  had  rented,  and  to  which  by  means  of  my  concert 
he  hoped  to  attract  the  most  fashionable  and  wealthiest  com- 
pany of  the  city.  This  use  of  my  concert,  which  could  in  no 
way  prejudice  me,  I could  readily  allow  him.  As  the  saloon 
is  not  very  spacious,  I fixed  the  price  of  admission,  as  at  Rome, 
at  oue  piaster,  and  although  I had  not  a more  numerous,  yet 
I had  a more  susceptible  public  than  there.  Encouraged  by 
this  and  supported  most  efficiently  by  the  very  accurate  accom- 
paniment under  Festa’s  direction,  as  well  as  by  the  room  it- 
self, which  was  so  advantageous  for  my  instrument,  I played 
better  than  I had  done  in  many  others  town  in  Italy.  Besides 
my  compositions  a duet  by  Mayer  and  a terzet  of  Cherubini 
were  sung  by  Signore  Davide , Nodari  and  Benedetti . Even 
during  the  evening  I was  solicited  on  all  sides  to  give  a se- 
cond concert  in  the  theatre. 


March  18. 

This  morning  early  we  visited  the  “Studii,”  i.  e . the  build- 
ing in  which  the  treasures  of  art  from  Pompeii  and  Hercula- 
neum are  preserved,  together  with  the  collections  previously 
made  of  statues  and  paintings.  The  library  is  situated  also  in 
the  same  building.  As  it  is  impossible  to  see  all  in  one  day, 
we  chose  for  to-day  the  statues  and  the  library.  Among  the 
former  are  some  very  celebrated  statues  from  the  Farnese  col- 
lection, of  which  numerous  excellents  casts  have  been  made, 
and  two  equestrian  statues  found  in  Pompeii,  of  great  ar- 


Digitized  by  Google 


22 


tistic  worth.  In  one  room  are  two  glazed  cases,  fall  of  an- 
tique bronzes,  also  from  Pompeii  and  Herculaneum,  consisting 
of  lamps , small  penates  and  all  kinds  of  domestic  utensils. 
These  things,  as  well  as  the  statues  in  marble  are  in  the  most 
perfect  preservation,  and  appear  scarcely  so  many  days  old  as 
they  are  years ; but  every  thing  of  iron  is  much  eaten  by  rust, 
as  for  instance  the  handles  and  rings  of  various  vessels  of  bronze. 

The  library  is  contained  in  a fine  handsome  and  spacious 
apartment  and  several  adjoining  rooms.  On  the  floor  of  the 
grand  room  the  line  of  the  meridian  is  drawn,  on  which,  through 
a small  hole  pierced  in  the  wall  for  that  purpose,  the  sun’s  rays 
fall  at  noon.  When  a person  claps  his  hands  at  a particular 
spot  in  this  apartment,  an  echo  repeats  it  more  than  thirty 
times  in  rapid  succession.  This  arises  probably  from  the  posi- 
tion of  the  window-recesses,  which  are  high  up,  near  the  ceiling. 

Lastly  we  visited  the  room  where  the  rolls  of  papyrus 
are  preserved  and  unrolled.  They  have  all  the  appearance  of 
charcoal,  and  one  might  mistake  them  for  that,  were  it  not 
that  one  can  easily  distinguish  the  edges  of  the  leaves.  A 
manuscript  fully  unrolled,  mounted  upon  linen,  framed  and 
glazed,  hangs  against  the  wall.  As  the  paper  is  burnt  quite 
black  the  letters  are  scarcely  to  be  distinguished,  and  one 
cannot  but  admire  the  patience,  the  penetration,  and  the 
knowledge  of  languages  of  those  who  have  known  how  to  un- 
ravel its  sense.  It  is  a treatise  on  music:  each  side  is  di- 
vided into  three  columns.  In  the  first  is  seen  an  engraved, 
accurate  copy  of  the  unrolled  papyrus,  with  all  its  defects, 
and  rents;  in  the  second,  the  contents  in  modern  Greek 
characters,  in  which  the  letters  and  words  that  are  want- 
ing in  the  original  are  filled  in  with  red  letters,  and  in  the 
third,  a Latin  translation.  They  are  now  unrolling  another 
manuscript,  but  do  not  appear  to  be  hurrying  themselves 
much,  for  we  found  one  person  only  thus  occupied.  The  me- 
thod pursued  is  a very  simple  one.  Small  strips  of  fine  parch- 
ment are  stuck  with  gum  close  to  each  other  or  rather  some- 
what lapping  over  each  other,  upon  the  charred  rolls,  after 


Digitized  by  foozle 


which  the  paper  is  gradually  and  carefully  released  and  removed. 
The  process  is  of  a necessity  a slow  one,  but  considerably  more 
might  have  been  unrolled  by  this  time.  If  these  precious  re- 
mains of  ancient  learning  were  in  the  possession  of  a German 
sovereign,  they  would  all  have  been  deciphered  long  since. 

March  22. 

As  I did  not  like  the  trouble  of  making  the  arrangement 
for  a second  concert,  I readily  accepted  the  proposal  of  the 
impressario  to  play  twice  at  the  San  Carlo  theatre  between 
the  acts  of  the  opera  for  the  sum  of  300  ducats.  This  I did 
the  evening  before  last  for  the  first  time.  I was  very  much 
afraid  that  the  violin  would  not  fill  the  immense  house,  but  I 
was  soon  set  at  rest  on  that  point  on  being  told  at  the  re- 
hearsal that  every  note  was  distinctly  heard  in  the  most  dis- 
tant parts  of  the  house.  But  of  a necessity  nevertheless  I was 
obliged  to  forego  every  finer  nuance  in  my  play.  Although  the 
house  was  very  full,  yet  the  greatest  silence  prevailed  whilst  I was 
playing,  and  after  the  second  piece  of  music  I was  called  forward. 

Last  evening  I played  at  the  Casino  mobile , in  a very 
fine  saloon,  my  concerto  in  the  form  of  a scena.  and  a pot- 
pourri with  pianoforte  accompaniment.  As  the  room  is  very 
favourable  for  music,  both  of  these  had  a very  sensible  effect 
upon  the  audience.  The  remainder  of  the  concert,  consisting 
of  symphonies  and  pieces  ( fharmonie , was  not  of  importance. 

I forgot  to  mention  a concert  given  by  Signora  Paravicini 
at  which  we  were  present,  at  the  Teatro  nuovo , on  Wednesday 
last.  She  played,  between  the  acts  of  a comedy,  the  first  vio- 
lin-concerto of  Bode  in  D minor,  a pot-pourri  by  Kreutzer , 
and  f at  the  end  an  Adagio  and  Rondo  of  the  same  composer. 
I have  been  accustomed  to  hear  my  instrument  ill  used  by 
women,  but  I never  saw  it  used  so  badly  as  by  Signora  Pa- 
ravicini, I was  the  more  surprised  at  this,  as  she  has  acquired 
some  fdme.  and  has  a vast  deal  of  pretension;  as  an  instance 
of  this,  she  told  people  here  that  she  had  heard  Rode  in 
Vienna,  but  that  he  had  excited  no  other  sentiment  in  her 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


24 


than  pity.  Her  turn  had  now  come  to  excite  pity  if  one  can 
feel  it  at  all  for  arrogance  and  unskilfulness.  She  has  a very 
excellent  violin,  a Stradivari , and  in  the  cantabile  draws  from 
it  a tolerable  tone;  but  that  is  her  only  merit.  In  other  re- 
spects she  plays  in  bad  taste,  with  a profusion  of  meaning- 
less ornamentations,  and  the  passages  indistinctly : her  intona- 
tion is  not  pure  and  her  bow  stroke  extremely  bungling.  The 
applause  was  very  lukewarm  and  was  elicited  only  when  Prince 
Leopold  her  patron  began  to  clap  his  hands.  Much  more  in- 
teresting than  Paravicini’s  play,  was  the  comedy,  which  was 
capitally  performed.  Signor  de  Marini  played  remarkably  well, 
and  he  is  altogether  one  of  the  best  actors  of  the  day.  The 
theatre,  certainly,  is  smaller  than  the  Fiorentino  and  Fondo, 
but  quite  as  pretty. 

At  private-parties  I have  played  my  quartetts  and  quin- 
tetts  a few  times,  which  were  exceedingly  well  accompanied 
by  Messieurs  Banner  and  son,  the  young  and  talented  violin- 
ist Onario , whom  I have  practised  in  some  of  my  things,  and 
by  the  accomplished  violoncellist  Fenzi,  who  lived  formerly  in 
Cassel.  They  afforded  great  pleasure,  and  Mayer  assured  me 
he  had  never  enjoyed  a greater  musical  treat.  On  the  second 
occasion  we  played  them  at  the  house  of  Lady  Douglas,  who 
herself  plays  the  piano  very  well  and  is  said  to  have  sung 
exceedingly  well  some  years  ago.  She  and  her  husband  are 
the  first  English  in  whom  I have  found  a real  taste  for  music. 

March  i?3. 

On  looking  through  this  diary  I observe  that  I have  for- 
gotten to  mention  the  performance  of  two  masses  given  at  the 
expense  of  Prince  Esterhazy  of  Vienna.  The  first  by  old  Um- 
lauf  of  Vienna,  was  remarkable  for  nothing  in  particular;  but 
the  second  by  Haydn , in  D minor,  which  was  performed  with 
great  solemnity  and  military  pomp  on  the  emperor’s  birthday, 
afforded  much  gratification.  Mesdames  Chabran  and  Canonici% 
and  Signori  Nozzari  and  Benedetti  sang  the  solo  parts  very 
beautifully;  the  chorus  and  orchestra  were  also  admirable. 


Digitized  by  Google 


25 


Unfortunately,  at  the  express  desire  of  the  Prince,  almost  all 
the  tempi  were  taken  too  quick,  and  thereby  much  spoiled. 

Milan,  April  22. 

Prevented  from  writing  by  the  great  press  of  business  in 
the  last  days  of  our  residence  in  Naples,  and  the  hurry  of  our 
return  journey,  which  was  almost  unbroken  by  a day  of  rest, 
I have  got  greatly  in  arrears,  and  have  therefore  much  to  fetch 
up,  even  respecting  Naples. 

Mayer’s  new  opera  was  at  length  brought  out  a fortnight 
before  Easter,  after  it  had  been  once  more  re-christened,  but 
it  was  a total  failure,  so  that  it  lived  through  two  and  a 
half  representations  only,  and  probably  is  for  ever  at  rest.  On 
the  third  evening,  in  fact,  the  first  act  alone  was  given,  with 
one  act  of  Paer’s  “Sargino.”  Both  the  subject  and  the  mu- 
sic of  Mayer’s  opera  are  equally  uninteresting  and  tedious. 
The  latter  especially  is  wanting  in  life  and  spirit;  it  is  so 
common-place  and  so  spun  out,  that  one  can  hardly  hear  it 
without  falling  asleep.  This  actually  occurred  to  me,  to  Count 
Gallenberg , and  to  several  others,  at  the  grand  rehearsal.  Mayer 
seems  to  have  exhausted  himself,  which  is  no  wonder  with  the 
enormous  quantity  of  operas  which  he  has  written.  It  is  cer- 
tainly high  time  for  him  to  retire  as  a composer  of  operas, 
that  he  may  not  entirely  forfeit  the  repute  he  had  acquired, 
and  he  would  have  done  well  if  he  had  not  accepted  the  last 
invitation  to  Naples.  The  evening  after  the  first  representa- 
tion of  his  opera  he  set  out  on  his  return  to  Bergamo. 

About  this  time  the  arrival  of  Madame  Catalani  set  all 
the  lovers  of  music  in  Naples  in  great  commotion.  She  im- 
mediately took  advantage  of  this  enthusiasm  and  announced 
a few  days  afterwards  a concert  in  the  Fiorentino  theatre,  the 
prices  of  admission  being  seven-fold  the  usual  ones.  On  the 
day  before  the  concert,  it  was  with  difficulty  that  I got  two 
pit  tickets,  and  that  because  I had  previously  bespoken  them, 
at  22  Carlini  each.  Never  perhaps  were  the  expectations  of 
an  audience  at  a higher  pitch  of  tension,  than  were  those  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


26 


the  Neapolitan  public  on  that  evening.  My  wife  and  I.  who 
for  years  had  longed  to  hear  this  celebrated  singer,  could 
scarcely  repress  our  impatience  for  the  moment  of  her  ap- 
pearance. At  length  she  did  appear,  and  a deathlike  silence 
pervaded  the  whole  house.  She  came  forward  with  a cold  and 
pretentious  air.  and  saluted  neither  the  Court  nor  the  public, 
which  created  an  obvious  unpleasant  sensation.  Perhaps  she 
had  expected  to  have  been  received  with  a burst  of  applause, 
which  however  is  not  the  custom  in  Naples,  and  this  perhaps 
put  her  out  of  humour.  But  when  after  her  first  song  she 
was  greeted  with  a storm  of  applause,  she  became  more  friendly, 
and  remained  so  for  the  rest  of  the  evening.  She  sang  four 
times,  two  airs  by  PucjUta,  Ombra  adorata  of  Zingarelli  (or,  as 
the  Neapolitans  insist,  of  Crescentini , whose  name  also  was 
down  on  the  bills)  and  variations  on  the  thousand  times  varied 
"Net  cor  non  pin  mi  sento”  The  airs  by  Pucitta  were  extre- 
mely poor;  the  famed  Ombra  adorata  can  only  be  considered 
fine,  when  all  thoughts  of  the  text  are  banished  from  the  mind; 
the  variations  were  common  place,  but  become  piquante  from 
her  manner  of  execution.  She  pleased  us  greatly,  by  the  con- 
stantly pure  intonation  and  the  perfect  finish  with  which  she 
executes  every  kind  of  vocal  ornamentation  and  of  passages, 
and  by  her  quite  peculiar  and  characteristic  style  of  singing; 
but  she  does  not  come  up  to  that  ideal  of  a perfectly  accom- 
plished singer,  which  we  had  expected  to  find  her.  Her  voice 


which  has  the  extensive  range 


is  both  full  and  powerful  in  the  low  and  midle  notes,  but  the 


transition  to  the  voce  di  testa 

and  from  three  to  four  notes 
than  the  deeper  and  highest; 


at 


very  observable, 


in  that  region  are  much  weaker, 
for  which  reason  she  gives  all 


Digitized  by  foozle 


27 


passages  which  occur  in  those  notes,  with  half-voice,  only  in 
order  to  conceal  the  inequality.  Her  voice  is  wanting  also  in 
the  youthful  freshness,  which,  however,  in  a female  singer  of 
forty  years  of  age,  is  not  to  be  wondered  at.  Her  shake  is 
wonderfully  beautiful;  and  equally  pure  whether  in  the  half 
or  whole  notes.  A peculiar  style  of  run  through  the  half  no- 
tes, properly  speaking  the  enharmonic  scales,  since  every  note 
was  produced  twice,  is  greatly  admired  as  something  quite  her 
own.  To  me,  nevertheless,  it  was  more  remarkable  than  beau- 
tiful; for  it  sounded  to  me  like  the  howling  of  the  storm  in 
the  chimney.  Another  kind  of  vocal  ornamentation,  which  in 
itself  is  common  enough,  she  gives,  however,  in  a manner  that 
imparts  great  charm  to  it.  It  would  be  expressed  in  notes 
somewhat  in  this  manner: 


r~G 

f — r- » -r 

□nz—  ' r ^ -L.gr -Li — 

J ff  ^ s? 

but  at  the  same  time  it  must  be  observed,  that  she  took  breath 
at  every  sixteenth-pause,  which  gave  to  this  part  a very  im- 
passioned character.  Among  the  variations  was  one  with  syn- 
copated notes,  which  from  her  peculiar  style  of  execution  de- 
rives also  a very  characteristic  and  interesting  charm;  and 
another  in  triplets  legato  she  gives  in  perfection.  But  what  I 
most  missed  in  her  singing,  was  soul.  She  sings  recitative  with- 
out expression  — I might  say  with  carelessness,  and  in  Adagio 
she  remains  cold.  Neither  were  we  even  once  deeply  moved, 
but  experienced  merely  that  sense  of  pleasure  one  always  feels 
when  one  sees  and  hears  mechanical  difficulties  overcome  with 
ease.  This,  also,  was  the  sentiment  of  all  those  who  sat  in 
our  immediate  neighbourhood.  Some  unpleasant  and  prejudi- 
cial habits,  which  she  is  not  likely  now  to  correct,  I must  yet 
advert  to.  To  these  belong  firstly,  that  in  certain  passages, 
particularly  those  which  she  gives  with  force,  every  note  is  de- 
livered with  a sort  of  see-saw  movement  of  the  lower  jaw,  as 


Digitized  by  Google 


28 


in  mastication,  so  that  a dumb  person,  if  he  saiv  her  sing, 
would  have  no  great  difficulty  in  distinguishing  crochets  from 
quavers  and  up  and  down  running  passages  from  one  another. 
In  the  shake,  more  especially,  the  movement  of  the  lower  jaw 
by  which  every  note  might  be  counted,  is  very  striking  and  dis- 
figuring. Secondly,  in  impassioned  passages  her  whole  body 
partakes  of  a southern  but  highly  unbecoming  mobility,  from 
which  a deaf  man  would  likewise  of  a certainty  easily  guess 
the  subject. 

A few  days  afterwards  we  heard  her  again  in  the  rehear- 
sal to  her  second  concert,  in  which  she  sang  five  times,  and 
exhibited  the  same  qualifications,  but  also  impressed  no  one 
at  any  time  by  a show  of  feeling  in  her  execution.  She  seemed 
to  me  much  less  pretentious  here  and  more  amiable ; and  she 
was  very  polite  to  the  orchestra  and  the  persons  who  had 
gathered  to  hear  her,  so  that  I can  readily  believe  what  I 
was  told  — that  her  pretentious  air  when  appearing  in  public, 
arose  more  from  embarrassement  than  pride,  and  was  assumed 
by  her  to  conceal  her  fears.  A young  man  who  stood  behind 
the  side-scenes  during  her  concert  assured  me,  that  upon  first 
stepping  forward  on  the  stage  she  trembled  in  every  limb,  and 
could  scarcely  breath  for  nervousness.  It  is  said  that  here 
in  Milan  she  did  not  give  general  satisfaction;  and  her  last 
concerts  were  much  less  numerously  attended  than  the  first. 
One  part  of  the  public  was  in  favour  of  Grassini,  whom  we 
have  now  heard  here  also,  but  of  whom  I shall  speak  later. 
The  admirers  of  the  latter  had  played  Catalani  a malicious 
trick  by  distributing  for  sale  at  the  entrance  of  the  theatre  at  her 
first  concert  an  Italian  translation  of  the  unfavourable  opinions 
respecting  her  that  had  appeared  in  the  Hamburg  and  Leipsic 
musical  journals.  Catalani,  herself,  expecting  to  find  in  it  a son- 
net or  something  of  the  kind  in  her  praise,  purchased  a copy. 

The  day  after  Catalani  s first  concert  in  Naples  took  place, 
Rossini's  “Elisabetta”  was  given  at  the  San  Carlo  theatre,  in 
which  Colbran  played  the  first  part.  As  every  body  knew 
that  it  was  her  intention  to  compete  with  Catalani , the  house 


Digitized  by  Google 


29 


was  more  than  usually  crowded,  both  by  partizans  and  anta- 
gonists of  Colbran . The  latter  on  the  previous  evening  called 
Catalani’s  concert  the  exequies  of  Colbran , and  people  were 
therefore  extremely  curious  to  learn  what  would  be  the  result 
of  the  evening.  Immediately  upon  her  appearance  she  was  re- 
ceived with  a concert  of  hisses,  but  simultaneously  also  with 
vehement  applause.  As,  however,  this  time  she  really  sang 
and  played  exceedingly  well,  the  applauders  increased  in  num- 
ber and  the  hissers  grew  less,  so  that  at  last  she  was  called  for- 
ward almost  unanimously  by  the  audience.  She  is  far  behind 
Catalmi  in  voice  and  every  mechanical  point  of  excellence, 
but  she  sings  with  true  feeling  and  plays  with  considerable 
passion.  The  composition  of  this  opera  is  one  of  Rossini's 
best,  but  with  all  the  merits,  it  has  also  all  the  weak  points 
of  the  others.  — In  the  theatre,  a ridiculous  trait  of  preten- 
tious magnanimity  on  the  part  of  Catalani  furnished  subject 
of  amusement.  A few  evenings  before,  when  she  first  went  to 
the  theatre,  she  sent  her  secretary  behind  the  scenes  to  express 
to  Colbran  and  the  other  singers  that  “she  was  perfectly  satisfied 
with  their  performances.” 


Freiburg  in  Breisgau,  June  20.  1817. 

Previous  to  our  leaving  Naples,  we  devoted  one  whole 
day  more  to  a visit  to  Pompeii.  We  were  so  fortunate  as  to 
have  a clear  and  tolerably  warm  day,  a real  wonder  through- 
out the  whole  of  the  month  of  March!  While  from  the 
middle  of  January  to  the  end  of  February  the  weather  was 
almost  without  interruption  the  most  beautiful  spring  weather, 
with  the  beginning  of  March  winter  suddenly  returned.  A 
cold  and  stormy  rain  fell  in  the  vallies,  and  snow  in  the  moun- 
tains to  such  a depth,  that  they  were  no  longer  accessible. 
On  Vesuvius  it  was  said  to  be  from  three  to  four  feet  deep. 
But  March  is  generally  very  cold  and  the  real  winter  month 
of  the  Neapolitans. 

The  ruins  of  Pompeii,  which  from  having  lain  covered  for 
nearly  2000  years  with  a light  crust  of  dry  ashes,  are  in  far 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


30 


better  preservation  than  all  the  remains  of  that  period  which 
have  been  exposed  to  the  air,  made  a deep  and  really  solemn 
impression  upon  us.  The  ruins  of  the  Colosseum  and  other 
ancient  buildings  in  Rome,  impress  one  with  an  idea  of  the 
artistic  taste,  the  wealth,  and  love  of  grandeur  of  the  ancients; 
but  here  the  sight  of  simple  small  private  dwelling-houses, 
which  are  as  entire  as  on  the  day  of  the  fearful  catastrophe, 
makes  one  acquainted  with  the  habits  and  ways  of  their  civic 
life,  and,  by  ocular  evidence,  with  many  customs  unknown  to 
our  mode  of  living,  and  described  to  us  byancient  writers. 

On  entering  one  of  these  houses,  which  may  have  belonged 
to  a well-to-do  individual  in  the  middle  class  of  society,  one 
finds  a row  of  small,  neat  rooms  all  painted  ul  fresco,  like 
the  paintings  cut  out  of  the  walls  from  Herculaneum,  which  are 
preserved  at  Portici.  These  chambers  have  rarely  any  win- 
dow, and  but  one  door  to  admit  light  and  air,  which  opens 
upon  a court  yard,  round  which  runs  a covered  gallery.  In  the 
centre  of  the  court  is  a fountain,  near  this  a circular  marble 
table  round  which  stand  marble  benches  to  recline  upon  at  meal 
time,  furnished  with  a somewhat  higher  projection  to  support 
the  elbows;  and  on  one  side  of  the  court  is  one  or  more  taste- 
fully decorated  baths.  All  these  houses  had  but  one  floor  or 
story  and  were  much  smaller  than  our  dwelling  houses.  It  is 
greatly  to  be  regretted  that  the  domestic  utensils  which  were 
found  there  could  not  be  left  in  their  place!  One  would  then 
have  had  a perfect  conception  of  the  habits  and  mode  of  life 
of  the  former  inhabitants  of  this  remarkable  city.  The  pavement 
of  the  streets  is  still  in  the  same  condition  as  it  then  was, 
and  the  impression  of  the  wheels  of  the  vehicles  as  also  of 
the  feet  of  the  foot-passengers  are  still  to  be  seen  in  the  streets. 
Over  the  shops  one  still  sees  expressed  in  Greek  characters 
painted  on  walls,  the  wares  which  were  sold  in  each,  and  at 
the  corner  of  a street  an  advertisement  of  that  period.  In  the 
shops  where  oil  was  sold  huge  earthen-ware  jars,  let  into  the 
masonry  of  the  front  wall,  are  still  to  be  seen,  from  which  that 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


31 


article  was  dipped  out  for  sale.  In  many  cellars  in  good  pre- 
servation, similar  tall  jars,  but  with  very  narrow  necks  are 
to  be  seen,  in  which  wine  was  kept.  In  one  of  these  cellars 
the  skeleton  of  a woman  was  found,  and  so  completely  im- 
bedded in  the  ashes,  that  the  form  of  her  body  could  be  dis- 
tinguished as  in  a mould.  A part  of  this  form  in  which  the 
impress  of  her  breast  is  left,  is  preserved  at  Portici.  In  her 
hand  was  found  a large  leathern  bag  with  coins  in  it. 

The  street  which  is  in  the  best  preservation  is  the  street 
of  the  tombs,  in  which  on  both  sides  scarcely  any  thing  is  to 
be  seen  but  tombs,  some  of  which  are  built  in  the  Egyptian 
pyramidal -form,  and  others  in  the  Roman  style.  In  these 
tombs,  urns  have  been  found  in  which  the  ashes  and  bones 
of  the  burned  dead  were  preserved.  The  inscriptions  upon 
these  tombs  are  sometimes  Greek,  sometimes  Latin,  and  begin 
very  frequently  with  the  exclamation:  “Siste  viator /”  “Stop 
passer-by!”  &c.,  which  mode  of  arresting  the  attention  of  the 
way  farer  here  in  a frequented  and  busy  street  was  much  more 
in  place  than  it  is  in  our  generally  very  retired  churchyards, 
in  which  it  has  been  imitated  in  a somewhat  inappropriate 
manner. 

The  public  buildings,  theatres,  temples,  &c.,  which  attract 
attention  in  Pompeii,  are  certainly  neither  so  vast  nor  so  grand 
and  beautiful  as  those  of  Rome,  Puzzuoli  and  other  places;  but 
they  nevertheless  exceed  in  importance  everything  that  a mo- 
dern provincial  town  can  offer  to  the  visitor.  Where,  for  in- 
stance, would  one  find  in  any  of  these,  a vast  circus  for  public 
games , and  two  large  theatres ! Of  the  latter,  one  was  roofed 
over,  and  served  probably  for  the  performance  of  comedies; 
the  other,  with  a stage,  an  orchestra,  and  a circular,  very  lofty 
amphitheatre  gives  us  an  idea  of  the  sort  of  place  in  which 
the  Roman  actors,  provided  with  a mask  to  increase  the  vo- 
lume of  sound,  performed  their  tragedies  before  an  audience  of 
from  10,000  to  15,000  spectators.  But  the  temples  also,  the 
finest  of  which  is  now  being  dug  out  of  the  ashes,  afford  ocular 


Digitized  by 


Google 


32 


demonstration  of  the  love  of  grandeur  and  of  the  good  taste 
of  the  ancients  in  architecture. 

The  vineyards  and  cultivated  land  which  lie  above  the 
yet  unexcavated  part  of  the  city,  have  been  already  long  pur- 
chased by  the  former  king  of  Naples;  hence  if  the  work  had 
been  carried  on  with  energy,  which,  however,  is  not  to  be  ex- 
pected from  the  present  government,  which  prosecutes  all  such 
things  very  indolently,  the  whole  of  this  highly  interesting 
city  would  be  laid  bare  in  a few  years,  and  from  the  high 
ground  which  surrounds  it  might  all  be  surveyed  at  one 
glance.  At  present  the  different  parts  which  have  been  ex- 
cavated are  still  separated  from  each  other  by  long  strips  of 
land  under  cultivation,  which  one  is  obliged  to  ascend  like  so 
many  hills ; and  one  is  greatly  surprised  after  having  traversed 
one  of  this  sort  of  fields  to  see  beneath  one  another  part  of 
the  city,  which  contrasts  so  strangely  with  the  vines,  trees,  fields 
and  peasant’s  huts  upon  the  high  ground. 

The  day  before  our  departure  from  Naples  we  once  more 
paid  a visit  to  the  Studii,  and  inspected  the  large  collection 
of  Etrurian  vases  of  every  imaginable  form.  We  were  greatly 
pleased  also,  with  the  fine  collection  of  paintings,  among  which 
the  pictures  by  Raphael  recently  brought  back  from  Sicily 
were  special  objects  of  our  admiration. 

On  the  29  th  March  we  set  out  on  our  return  journey  to 
Rome.  The  morning  of  our  leaving  was  very  stormy  and  unplea- 
sant for  me;  for  in  the  first  place  I had  a dispute  with  the 
vetturino,  who  wanted  to  thrust  a fifth  person  into  the  interior 
of  the  vehicle,  in  the  shape  of  a dirty  and  ill-smelling  Capucin 
friar,  till  at  length  after  much  desultory  disputation  we  consented 
to  his  being  accommodated  in  the  cabriolet,  and  as  a further  in- 
cident of  annoyance,  my  family  was  at  first  not  permitted 
to  pass  out  of  the  gate,  because  they  had  not  been  mentioned 
in  the  new  Neapolitan  passports  which  it  is  requisite  to  take 
upon  leaving  the  country.  It  was  in  vain  that  I shewed  my 
old  passport,  in  which  my  wife  and  children  were  mentioned; 
and  it  was  not  until  I had  pledged  my  word  to  go  back  and 


Digitized  by  Google 


33 


procure  another  passport  that  I was  allowed  to  move  from  the 
spot.  I therefore  went  back  to  the  minister,  while  my  wife 
and  children  proceeded  without  further  hindrance  on  their  way. 
Arrived  at  the  minister’s,  I there  found  all  still  buried  in  sleep ; 
but  with  fair  words  and  that  which  with  Italians  is  far  more 
effectual,  money,  I at  length  succeeded  in  procuring  a new  pass- 
port. Furnished  with  this  I jumped  into  a hired  carriage,  and 
drove  with  all  speed  to  overtake  my  family,  which  I did  about 
half-way  to  Capua  and  thus  relieved  them  of  a great  anxiety 
respecting  me.  Among  the  annoyances  with  which  travellers 
in  Italy  are  almost  worried  to  death,  is  the  excessive  strictness 
in  regard  to  passports,  which  is  frequently  carried  to  a ridi- 
culous extreme.  We  subsequently  saw  an  instance  in  which  a 
traveller  who  had  already  got  beyond  Parma  on  the  Lombard 
frontier  was  sent  all  the  way  back  to  Leghorn  because  his 
passport  had  not  been  signed  by  the  Austrian  consul  at  that 
place. 

In  a second  -vehicle  which  accompanied  us  travelled  an 
Englishman,  who  was  possessed  of  an  extraordinary  skill  in 
taking  the  fine  views  in  a few  minutes.  For  this  purpose  he 
made  use  of  a machine  which  transmitted  the  landscape  on  a 
reduced  scale  to  the  paper.  Between  Velletri  and  Albano, 
where  we  went  part  of  the  way  on  foot  in  order  better  to 
enjoy  the  magnificent  landscape  and  the  mild  air,  we  saw  the 
whole  method  of  his  proceeding,  which  afforded  infinite  plea- 
sure to  the  children.  He  shewed  us  afterwards  his  collection 
of  views,  of  which  he  had  upwards  of  two  hundred  of  Naples 
and  its  neighourhood  alone.  He  gave  me  his  address:  Major 
CocJcbum , Woolwich,  nine  miles  from  London. 

Our  re-entry  into  Rome  filled  us  anew  with  wonder  and 
admiration  of  the  remains  of  the  old  Roman  architecture,  which 
we  had  not  seen  for  three  months.  We  were  much  amused 
also  with  the  simple  remarks  of  the  Capucin  friar,  whose  first 
visit  this  was  to  the  mainland,  and  who  was  totally  inex- 
perienced in  every  thing.  Apart  from  his  dirt,  he  was  really 
a good-tempered,  simple  sort  of  man,  and  quite  endurable.  He 

8POHR,  Autobiography.  IL  3 


Digitized  by 


Google 


34 


was  fall  of  restless  impatience  to  see  the  pope  officiate.  How 
various  are  the  wishes  and  inclinations  of  men!  He  perhaps 
felt  as  we  did  the  day  before  the  concert  given  by  the  cele- 
brated Catalani ! I wish  with  all  my  heart  that  he  may  re- 
turn to  his  convent , better  .satisfied  then  we  returned  home 
from  that  concert. 

With  great  difficulty  we  procured  a miserable  apartment 
in  a private  house,  for  which  nevertheless  we  were  obliged  to 
pay  half  a piaster  per  diem.  Strangers  from  every  part  of  Italy 
had  poured  into  Rome  to  be  present  during  the  Holy  Week, 
in  addition  to  whom  also,  pilgrims,  and  the  devout  gathered 
together  from  all  parts  of  the  world,  were  now  here  to  receive 
remission  of  their  sins.  The  streets  were  thronged  to  that 
degree  that  we  were  frequently  obliged  to  pull  up  as  we  drove 
through. 

Our  apartments  had  a look-out  upon  the  Tiber  from  a 
wooden  balcony ; from  here  we  could  follow  the  course  of  the 
Tiber  from  the  Porta  Romana  to  the  bridge  in  front  of  the 
castle  of  St.  Angelo.  The  stillness  of  the  quarter  of  the  city 
beyond  the  Tiber,  lit  up  by  the  ruddy  evening  sky  and  the  moon- 
light, contrasted  in  a remarkable  manner  with  the  dense  throng 
which  poured  to  and  fro  across  the  bridge  and  then  disap- 
peared in  the  streets  leading  from  the  castle  of  St.  Angelo  to 
the  church  of  St.  Peter.  High  above  all  the  houses  and  pa- 
laces which  lay  between  us  and  the  church  of  St.  Peter,  rose 
the  latter,  proudly  and  majestically,  filling  us  with  wonder  and 
admiration  of  its  gigantic  proportions.  Tired  as  we  were,  it 
was  long  before  we  could  tear  ourselves  away  from  this  magni- 
ficent sight,  and  we  remained  till  a late  hour  in  the  mild 
evening  air  upon  our  balcony.  When  we  at  length  lay  down 
to  rest,  we  called  to  each  other  once  more:  “To-morrow,  to- 
morrow, then  we  shall  hear  the  famous  Miserere!” 


Digitized  by  Google 


35 


Aix  la  Ohap&e,  Aug.  10.  1817. 

Here  at  length.  I find  once  more  a few  moments  leisure 
to  continue  my  narrative  of  our  return  journey  from  Italy. 

On  the  3rd  April  we  at  last  heard  the-long-wished-for 
Miserere  in  the  Sixtine  chapel.  * We  had  been  told  that  fe- 
males were  admitted  by  tickets,  and  that  men  were  required 
to  appear  in  shoes.  But  a ticket  for  Dorette  was  now  not  to 
be  had,  and  I was  therefore  obliged  to  make  up  my  mind 
to  go  alone.  But  when  I recognised  among  the  Swiss  guard 
at  the  entrance  of  the  church  one  whom  I knew  and  whose 
good  will  I had  won  upon  a former  occasion  by  a present 
for  accompanying  us  up  to  the  dome  of  St.  Peter’s  church;  I 
enquired  of  him  whether  he  could  not  assist  to  procure  me  an 
admission  into  the  chapel  for  my  wife  without  a ticket;  and 
upon  his  assurance  that  he  would  do  his  best,  I hastened 
home  to  fetch  her.  After  some  discussion  with  the  other  Swiss 
guards  we  were  so  fortunate  as  to  be  admitted,  although  se- 
veral English  ladies  of  rank  who  came  unprovided  with  tickets 
were  refused  admittance  and  turned  back.  The  Swiss  cannot 
bear  the  English  nor  the  French,  and  favour  the  Germans  upon 
such  occasions  much  more,  particularly  if  one  can  talk  to  then 
in  a few  words  of  “ Schmzerdiitsch  ” 

We  yet  arrived  in  good  time,  and  only  regretted  that  we 
were  not  allowed  to  remain  together,  so  as  to  interchange  at 
the  moment  the  impression  w hich  the  music  would  make  upon  us. 

Before  the  commencement  of  the  singing,  nineteen  psalms 
were  chaunted  alternately  by  high  and  low  voices,  in  the  same 
manner  unisono , and  in  the  form  of  prayer,  as  we  had  al- 
ready found  so  tedious  at  Christmas ; and  we  had  to  bear  with 
the  last  eight  or  nine  of  these:  after  every  one,  which  lasted 
for  five  long  minutes,  one  of  the  tapers  is  extinguished  that 
burns  upon  a gigantic  pyramidal -shaped  candelabra  in  front 
of  the  high  altar.  How  one  wishes  that  the  last  of  them  also 
was  extinguished!  At  length  the  wished-for  moment  comes, 
and  by  degrees  a silence  ensues  which  not  a little  increases 
the  expectation  of  that  which  now  follows.  To  this  sentiment 

8* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


36 


of  expectation,  the  solemn  twilight  which  now  prevails  in  the 
church  faintly  illumined  with  the  last  gleam  of  the  rosy  tints 
of  evening,  and  the  repose  felt  at  length  by  the  ear  after  the 
hoarse  bellowing  of  the  psalms  may  be  ascribed  the  delicious 
impression  that  I experienced  from  the  first  long-drawn  chord 
of  C flat , and  which  seemed  to  me  like  music  from  another 
world.  But  one  was  too  soon  reminded  that  it  was  an  earthly 
music  that  fell  upon  the  ear,  and  one  indeed  sung  by  Italians ; 
for  immediately  after  the  second  bar,  the  ear  was  rent  by  a 
horrid  succession  of  quints!  The  theme  was  doubtless  after 
this  manner: 


but  was  given  by  the  singers  in  the  following  barbarous  manner: 


I could  not  have  believed  even  my  own  ears,  much  more  those 
of  others,  that  they  sing  in  such  wise  in  the  Sixtine  chapel,  had 
I not  heard  it  subsequently  repeated.  Is  this  perhaps  the  mys- 
terious method  of  executing  these  old  compositions,  of  which  it 
is  related  that  it  is  known  alone  to  this  choir,  and  has  been 
handed  down  traditionally  ? Impossible ! Modern  Italians  only 
can  sing  in  so  barbarous  a style,  who  may  perhaps  possess  a 
feeling  for  melody,  but  who  in  all  that  is  called  harmony  are 
grossly  ignorant. 


Digitized  by  Google 


37 


When  however  this  first  Miserere  had  been  endured,  I 
was  soon  attracted  by  something  else.  These  simple  sequences 
of  harmony,  consisting  almost  wholly  of  triads,  this  mixing 
and  sustaining  of  the  voices,  at  one  time  increasing  to  the 
most  tumultuous  forte , at  another  dying  away  into  the  soft- 
est pianissimo;  the  continual  and  lengthened  sustaining  of 
single  tones  to  a degree  attainable  only  by  the  lungs  of  a 
castrated  person,  and  then  especially  the  soft  introduction  of 
a chord,  while  that  of  other  voices  is  still  faintly  sustained, 
give  to  this  music,  in  spite  of  all  its  deficiencies,  something  so 
peculiar,  that  one  feels  irresistibly  attracted  by  it.  I can  now 
therefore  readily  understand  that  in  former  times,  when  the 
choir  was  much  better,  this  must  have  made  an  immense 
impression  upon  foreigners  who  had  never  heard  pure  vocal 
music  and  the  voices  of  castrated  persons.  It  might  even  now 
be  made  most  charmingly  effective,  if  the  singers  of  the  choir 
had  only  a director  of  more  extensive  knowledge.  But  as  it 
is,  they  do  not  generally  sing  even  with  purity. 

On  this  first  day,  two  compositions  of  Allegri  and  Baini 
were  given,  and  each  of  them  repeated  once.  Between  each 
of  these  ten  not  very  long  divisions  a prayer  was  recited  in 
a low  tone  by  the  cardinals,  bishops,  and  other  clergy,  which 
from  its  resemblance  to  the  roll  of  distant  thunder  had  a good 
effect.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  ceremony  however,  the  ser- 
vants, scraping  and  treading  upon  the  foot- boards,  made  a very 
unpleasant  noise  for  musical  ears,  which  greatly  disturbed  and 
then  obliterated  the  impression  made  by  the  music,  to  which 
one  would  willingly  have  abandoned  oneself  a little  longer. 
This  noise  they  tell  me  is  to  represent  an  earthquake! 

On  the  second  evening  I managed  things  in  such  a man- 
ner as  to  arrive  at  the  chapel  just  at  the  commencement  of 
the  real  singing,  and  on  the  extinguishing  of  the  last  taper. 
The  crowd  was  so  great,  that  I was  obliged  to  remain  stand- 
ing some  time  at  the  entrance  surrounded  by  Englishmen,  who 
during  the  whole  time  of  the  music  spoke  to  each  other  in  a very 
loud  tone  of  voice,  and  would  not  even  allow  themselves  to  be 


Digitized  by 


Google 


38 


restrained  from  it  by  any  signs  to  keep  silence.  Besides  this, 
the  singers  sang  much  more  carelessly  than  the  day  before, 
and  frequently  very  false,  so  that  I was  very  glad  when  the 
earthquake  came  to  put  an  end  to  the  ceremony.  Three  new 
compositions  were  added  to  the  two  of  yesterday,  for  which 
reason  each  required  to  be  sung  but  once.  In  other  respects 
everything  was  exactly  the  same  as  the  first  time. 

At  a later  period  I had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  the  Mi- 
serere collection  published  by  Kiihnel  of  Leipsic,  but  did  not 
find  a single  one  of  those  which  we  heard  in  Rome.  The 
library  of  the  Sixtine  chapel  must  however  be  so  rich  in  such 
compositions,  that  they  are  enabled  to  select  different  ones  for 
many  years  in  succession. 

Both  evenings  after  the  Miserere  we  saw  the  illumination 
of  the  cross  in  the  church  of  St.  Peter.  Upon  entering  by 
the  grand  entrance,  whence  one  sees  the  illuminated  cross  at 
the  farthest  distance,  it  makes  an  imposing  impression,  but  so 
soon  as  one  approaches  nearer,  it  loses  greatly.  The  effect 
would  be  far  greater  if  all  the  other  lights  in  the  church  were 
extinguished.  But  as  it  is,  not  only  hundreds  of  lamps  bum 
round  the  entrance  to  the  subterranean  chapel,  but  innumerable 
other  lights  besides  in  every  part  of  the  church.  The  brilliant 
illumination  in  the  cross  casts  therefore  no  prominent  shadow. 
The  Pantheon  was  also  illuminated  this  evening,  which  must 
harve  had  a magnificent  effect.  Unfortunately  we  arrived  just 
as  the  lights  were  being  extinguished. 

On  the  previous  evening  prince  Frederick  took  me  to  a 
party,  at  which  the  fiftieth  psalm,  or  the  Miserere  of  Marcello , 
was  exceedingly  well  sung  by  dilettanti.  But  as  the  orchestral 
accompaniment  was,  as  is  usual  in  Rome,  very  bad,  and  the 
composition  throughout  monotonous,  I soon  got  tired  of  it  and 
was  glad  when  it  came  to  an  end. 

On  Saturday  forenoon  we  took  a long  walk  to  St.  Paul  to 
see  the  magnificent  ancient  pillars  in  that  otherwise  very  ugly 
church.  On  our  way  back,  we  saw  the  pyramid  of  Cestius  and 
he  so-called  mount  of  pot-sherds.  At  noon  we  met  at  the  eating- 


Digitized  by  foozle 


39 


house  at  the  sign  of  “The  Ermine”  a German  drawer,  Herr  Rosel, 
who  easily  persuaded  us  to  take  another  walk  in  his  company. 
He  first  pointed  out  to  us  an  arched,  old  Roman  subterranean 
canal,  the  Cloaca  maxima.  I think ; we  then  went  to  a small, 
insignificant  church,  but  which  contains  many  fine  antiquities,  in 
order  to  see  the  divine  service  of  the  Greek  church,  which  is 
celebrated  on  this  day  only ; but  the  crowd  was  so  great,  that 
we  could  not  obtain  an  entrance.  Upon  this  we  went  to  see 
the  temple  of  Vesta,  and  lastly  ascended  the  mount  Aventino. 
where  our  companion  led  us  before  the  door  of  a garden  and 
shewed  us  through  the  key-hole  one  of  the  most  startling 
sights  imaginable.  Through  a long  arched  gallery  overgrown 
with  wild  strubs  and  verdure  the  dome  of  the  church  of  St.  Pe- 
ters is  seen  magnificently  lit  up  and  gilded  by  the  rays  of  the 
setting  sun.  We  had  then  the  door  of  the  garden  opened  for 
us,  in  order  to  admire  closely,  a very  large  and  beautiful  palm 
tree  which  was  just  then  in  full  bloom. 

On  the  following  morning  the  ringing  of  bells  and  salves 
of  artillery  from  the  castle  of  St.  Angelo  reminded  us  that  it 
was  Easter  Sunday,  and  of  the  necessity  of  a speedy  toilet  if 
we  would  not  lose  the  sight  of  the  great  ceremony  in  the  church 
of  St.  Peter’s.  But  the  fearful  crush  of  the  crowd  upon  the 
bridge  almost  compelled  us  to  turn  back.  Completely  carried 
along  by  the  throng,  we  at  length  arrived  on  the  other  side 
of  the  Tiber,  and  then  hastened  to  get  into  a less  crowded 
side  street,  which  also  led  to  the  grand  square  in  front  of  the 
church.  We  there  found  many  thousand  persons  assembled, 
and  among  them  many  pilgrims,  with  their  hats  ornamented 
with  shells  collected  from  every  quarter  of  the  world,  who  were 
impatiently  awaiting  the  moment  when  the  Holy  father  should 
give  his  benediction  from  the  balcony.  But  some  time  was  to 
elapse  before  that  would  take  place,  and  we  therefore  first 
took  a turn  through  the  church,  where  we  found  every  part 
decorated  just  the  same  as  at  Christmas,  and  as  we  could  hope 
to  see  very  little  of  the  ceremony,  we  preferred  taking  a walk 
in  the  open  air  as  the  weather  was  so  fine.  We  got  back  again 


Digitized  by 


Google 


40 


about  12  o’clock,  and  found  the  populace  still  in  a state  of  acute 
suspense.  The  balcony  over  the  grand  entrance  to  the  church 
was  decorated  with  crimson  velvet,  and  to  shield  it  from  the 
rays  of  the  sun  a gigantic  tent  was  stretched  over  it.  In  the 
gallery  above  the  pillars  on  the  left-hand  side  a box  had  been 
erected  for  the  accommodation  of  the  most  distinguished  for- 
eign visitors.  A number  of  pages  bearing  tapers  first  made  their 
appearance  on  the  balcony,  then  followed  the  cardinals,  and 
lastly  the  Pope,  borne  upon  a sedan,  and  having  on  each  side 
of  him  the  white  fans  of  ostrich  feathers.  As  soon  as  he  ap- 
peared, all  the  people  fell  upon  their  knees  and  a solemn  still- 
ness took  the  place  of  the  wild  tumult  which  had  previously 
prevailed.  There  was  something  exceedingly  imposing  in  the 
reverential  awe  impressed  by  this  moment  upon  the  feelings. 
The  pale  old  man  then  arose,  and  with  a slow  and  dignified 
movement  of  the  hands,  blessed  the  assembled  multitude.  In 
the  mean-time,  two  folded  papers  were  thrown  down  from  the 
balcony,  one  of  which,  as  I was  told,  contained  the  damnation 
of  all  heretics,  and  the  other  the  papal  indulgence  for  all  good 
believers  then  present.  The  damnatory-bull  did  not  however 
reach  the  ground,  but  flew  driven  by  the  wind  into  a window 
that  stood  open,  while  the  bull  of  indulgence  was  caught  by 
the  people  who  struggled  for  its  possession. 

On  our  way  to  the  eating-house,  we  were  joined  by  Herr 
Kelle  of  Stuttgard,  whose  acquaintance  we  had  previously  made 
in  Dresden.  He  asked  us  among  other  things  whether  we  were 
satisfied  with  our  tour  in  Italy  and  with  what  we  had  seen. 
Upon  which  I complained  that  we  had  found  many  things  which 
did  not  realise  the  expectation  that  had  been  raised  in  our 
minds  by  previous  travellers.  lie  found  that  very  natural,  and 
considered  that  it  arose  from  the  circumstance  that  not  one  of 
the  travellers  upon  his  return  would  confess,  that  he  also  had 
been  made  an  April-fool  of  by  his  predecessors.  It  reminds 
me,  he  continued,  of  the  well-known  anecdote  of  a man  who 
advertised  that  he  had  a horse  in  his  stable  which  had  its  head 
where  other  horses  had  their  tails.  But  the  curious  who  went 


Digitized  by 


Google 


41 


to  see  it  found  nothing  more  than  a horse  fastened  to  the  crib 
by  the  tail,  yet  took  good  care  to  conceal  it  from  the  others 
who  were  waiting  outside  the  door  — because  they  were  ashamed. 
The  application  of  the  story  is  easy! 

After  dinner  we  took  another  walk  in  the  villa  Borghese, 
and  then  made  our  preparations  for  our  departure,  which  was 
fixed  for  the  next  morning. 

In  company  of  two  persons  from  Stuttgard  and  one  from 
Munich,  with  whom  we  had  collectively  hired  a vetturino, 
we  this  time  performed  the  far  more  interesting  return-jour- 
ney by  the  way  of  Perugia  to  Florence,  in  six  days.  On  the 
evening  of  the  second  day  we  arrived  at  Terni,  and  has- 
tened before  the  sun  had  set;  to  visit  the  celebrated  water- 
fall, about  two  hours’  walk  from  that  place.  We  proceeded 
as  far  as  the  foot  of  the  mountain  and  then  hired  some  asses 
already  saddled  for  the  purpose  in  the  very  romantically  si- 
tuated village,  to  which  , half  Terni  attracted  by  the  mildness 
of  the  Sunday  evening  had  repaired  as  a pleasant  promenade. 
These  soon  and  safely  carried  us  up  the  ascent  to  the  water- 
fall. The  view  from  the  mountain,  before  one  turns  into  the 
valley  into  which  the  waterfall  precipitates  itself,  is  very  varied 
and  charming.  The  scene  then,  as  one  approaches  nearer  to  it, 
becomes  more  and  more  wild  and  romantic.  As  the  sun  was  now 
about  to  set,  we  did  not  tarry  long  but  made  all  possible  haste 
to  reach  the  waterfall  before  nightfall,  in  part  to  see  the  impos- 
ing spectacle  in  a proper  light,  and  partly  for  security’s  sake, 
as  the  country  hereabouts  has  not  a very  good  reputation. 
With  the  last  declining  rays  of  the  sun  we  reached  the  rock 
which  rises  out  of  the  dark  foaming  abyss  opposite  the  fall, 
and  where  for  the  convenience  of  visitors  a pavilion  furnished 
with  benches  has  been  erected.  The  view  of  the  majestic 
spectacle  from  this  point  of  sight  is  beyond  the  power  of 
language  to  describe.  We  were  all  riveted  as  it  were  to  the 
spot  with  admiration  and  wonder.  Certainly  at  no  former  pe- 
riod of  my  life  did  any  of  the  beauties  of  nature,  not  even 
the  first  sight  of  the  Alps,  make  so  deep  an  impression  upon 


Digitized  by 


Google 


42 


me.  After  we  had  stood  here  for  full  ten  minutes  and  fully 
feasted  our  eyes  with  the  magnificent  sight,  we  returned  to 
Terni  without  accident,  on  one  of  the  mildest  and  finest  even- 
ings of  spring,  exceedingly  delighted  with  our  charming  ex- 
cursion. 

On  the  fourth  day  of  the  journey  it  became  suddenly  very 
cold,  so  much  so  that  towards  evening  snow  even  began  to  fall, 
and  lay  upon  the  ground  till  the  morning.  But  when  we  en- 
tered the  deep  valley  in  which  Florence  lies,  we  found  every- 
thing in  bloom. 

We  remained  one  day  only  in  Florence,  which  we  never- 
theless turned  to  good  account.  In  the  forenoon  we  visited 
the  cathedral,  the  baptistery  and  the  Boboli  gardens.  Unfor- 
tunately, as  it  was  a holiday,  we  could  not  get  admittance  to 
see  the  tomb  of  the  Medici  and  the  Pitti  Palace.  In  the  after- 
noon we  took  a walk  to  the  Cascini. 

Next  morning,  the  14th  April,  we  resumed  our  journey, 
to  Bologna  without  our  previous  companions,  who  remained 
some  time  longer  in  Florence.  We  found  a great  deal  of  snow 
in  the  Apennines,  and  once  more  got  into  complete  winter. 
In  dismal  Bologna  we  stopped  one  day  only.  The  host  of  the 
“Pellegrino”  had  made  out  a somewhat  shamefully  long  bill 
against  us,  in  abatement  of  which  I resorted  to  a means  I had 
frequently  put  in  practice;  that  is,  I deducted  a third  from 
the  account,  which  after  some  discursive  wrangling,  he  was 
obliged  to  submit  to.  Subsequently  I always  resorted  to  this 
expedient,  and  found  it  answer  better  than  the  previous  plan 
of  pre-arrangement,  which  I had  hitherto  followed,  but  in  which 
after  all  I always  found  that  I was  cheated. 

We  now  proceeded  by  way  of  Modena,  Reggio,  Parma  and 
Piacenza,  to  Milan.  As  we  did  not  stop  long  any  where,  I can 
say  nothing  more  of  those  cities  than  that  we  everywhere 
found  similar  crowds  of  ragged  beggars,  the  same  system  of 
cheating  among  the  hotel  keepers,  and  the  same  dirt.  On  the 
market  place  of  Piacenza,  we  saw  the  two  gigantic  bronze 
statues.  Whether  they  have  any  artistic  merit,  I caunot  take 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


43 


upon  me  to  say,  as  we  saw  them  only  in  the  evening  twi- 
light. 

In  Milan  we  put  up  at  the  Pension  Suisse , which  I re- 
commend to  all  travellers  for  cleanliness  and  cheapness.  We 
were  again  struck  on  our  first  going  out  by  the  magnificence 
and  beauty  of  the  exterior  of  the  cathedral.  It  is  without 
doubt  the  finest  building  that  we  ever  saw,  more  noble  and 
richer  than  the  fagade  of  the  church  of  St.  Peter’s. 

The  celebrated  Grassini , to  the  imitation  of  whose  singing 
Rode  is  said  to  be  indebted  for  his  peculiar  method  of  play, 
which  differs  from  the  school  of  Viotti,  had  announced  six  re- 
presentations in  the  theatre  della  Scala.  As  they  were  how- 
ever but  thinly  attended,  three  only  took  place,  at  the  last  of 
which  we  were  present.  It  consisted  of  unconnected  scenas 
from  “the  Horatii  and  Ouratii”  of  Cimarosa , and  some  other 
airs,  among  which  also  Ombra  adorata.  Grassini , who  in  the 
flower  of  her  age  was  without  doubt  a distinguished  vocalist,  is 
now  somewhat  passee . In  that  however  which  time  could  not 
steal  from  her  she  still  stands  alone;  that  is,  she  has  a good 
style,  and  plays  and  sings  with  much  intensity  of  feeling  — in 
truth  with  far  more  feeling  and  expression  than  Catalan i,  but 
she  is  nevertheless  greatly  behind  the  latter  in  brilliancy  of 
execution  and  as  regards  voice.  — Hence  whenever  the  pro- 
duction of  a brilliant  effect  alone,  was  the  desideratum,  she 
did  not  altogether  give  satisfaction,  but  in  impassioned  reci- 
tative she  charmed  the  audience  by  her  truthful  force  of  ex- 
pression. 

I found  this  time  also,  the  della  Scala  theatre  admirably 
adapted  to  give  effect  to  music.  I know  of  no  place  in  which 
the  voices  as  well  as  the  orchestra  sound  so  grandly,  and  so 
distinctly  at  the  same  time ; it  is  therefore  immeasurably  pre- 
ferable in  an  acoustic  point  of  view  to  the  San  Carlo  theatre. 

As  upon  our  first  appearance  at  the  theatre  our  specu- 
lation had  been  so  unprofitable,  we  tried  this  time  the  music 
hall  of  the  conservatorium,  fixed  the  price  of  entrance  at  three 
francs,  and  on  account  of  the  theatre  gave  our  concert  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


44 


forenoon.  Whether  attributable  to  the  unusual  hour  or  to  the 
already  too  advanced  season  of  the  year  — suffice  to  say,  it 
was  again  very  thinly  attended,  and  did  not  return  much  more 
than  the  expenses. 

In  the  company  of  two  Englishmen,  the  younger  of  whom 
was  tolerably  amiable,  we  set  out  from  Milan  on  the  2nd  of 
May,  slept  in  Arona,  and  on  the  following  morning  were  anew 
enraptured  by  the  heavenly  scenery  round  the  Lago  maggiore , 
which  we  now  again  found  in  the  garb  of  spring,  and  arrived 
towards  evening  at  the  village  of  Simplon,  at  the  foot  of  the 
Simplon  pass.  Here,  upon  taking  leave  of  Italy,  we  were  again 
cheated  in  real  Italian  style,  being  compelled,  for  instance,  to 
pay  two  francs  for  each  cup  of  coffee. 

The  next  morning  we  commenced  the  at  this  season  of 
the  year  somewhat  difficult  journey  over  the  mountain  pass, 
and  reached  the  snow  region  one  hour  after  leaving  Simplon. 
Here  it  was  necessary  to  take  the  carriage  to  pieces;  the  body 
was  placed  upon  one  sledge,  the  wheels  upon  another,  and  our 
luggage  upon  a third ; and  in  this  manner  the  caravan  proceeded 
with  several  additional  horses  at  a slow  rate.  In  the  higher 
regions  of  the  pass,  where  the  snow  remained  hard,  there  were 
not  many  stoppages,  but  further  down,  where  the  warmth  was 
already  considerable,  and  the  snow  not  very  deep,  we  came 
every  moment  to  a standstill.  Sometimes  the  horses  sank  in  up 
to  their  bellies,  at  others  the  carriage  would  get  jammed  fast 
between  walls  of  snow  as  high  as  a house,  when  it  became  ne- 
cessary to  clear  a passage  for  it;  and  then  again  the  road  had  to 
be  cleared  of  the  fallen  avalanches  that  encumbered  it  and  ob- 
structed our  progress.  We  therefore  went  on  before,  and  arrived 
two  hours  earlier  at  the  fourth  refuge  station,  wet  through  up  to 
the  knees,  it  is  true.  At  this  place  the  snow  had  disappeared, 
and  here  we  refreshed  ourselves  with  a simple  breakfast,  and 
rested  from  the  fatigues  of  our  toilsome  promenade.  We  heard 
many  avalanches  come  thundering  down,  and  were  in  constant 
fear  that  it  might  fare  with  us  as  with  some  travellers  who 
had  passed  the  day  before.  These,  arrived  near  to  one  of 


Digitized  by  Google 


45 


the  galleries  pierced  through  the  rock,  saw  a fearful  avalanche 
sweeping  down  upon  them,  and  had  but  just  time  sufficient 
to  take  refuge  in  the  gallery.  To  their  horror,  however,  they 
found  both  exits  had  been  blocked  up  by  the  snow,  so  that 
for  three  fearfully  anxious  hours  they  were  shut  in,  until  the 
inspector  of  the  road  had  worked  his  way  through  to  them. 

When  at  length  the  carriage  arrived,  we  drove  on  to  Brieg, 
where  we  passed  the  third  night,  and  for  the  first  time  again 
heard  our  mother-tongue  spoken,  which  sounded  right  welcome 
to  our  ears.  Our  fourth  day’s  journey  brought  us  to  Sion, 
where  French  is  spoken.  In  the  Valais  we  found  the  spring 
much  less  forward  than  on  the  other  side.  Here,  the  cherry- 
trees  were  scarcely  in  bloom,  while  in  Lombardy  and  on  the 
Logo  maggiore  they  had  long  passed  their  bloom.  We  thus 
once  more  found  ourselves  in  spring,  in  which  we  had  con- 
stantly been  since  the  beginning  of  February. 

On  our  fifth  day’s  journey  we  came  to  the  celebrated  Pisse- 
vache,  which  is  close  to  the  road.  But  our  expectations  were 
not  altogether  satisfied;  for  in  comparison  with  the  waterfall  at 
Terni,  this  looked  very  insignificant  in  our  eyes.  We  slept  at 
Bex,  a charmingly  situated  little  village,  which  the  inhabitants 
call  not  without  reason  un  paradis  terrestre.  The  inn  here  may 
compete  with  the  largest  hotels  of  many  capitals. 

On  the  sixth  day  we  travelled  continuously  along  the  lake 
of  Geneva  through  Vevay  to  Lausanne.  This  place,  so  much 
lauded,  and  also  much  resorted  to  in  summer  by  the  English, 
is  not  so  beautiful  as  I expected.  The  views  on  the  lake 
of  Thun,  and  still  more  on  the  lake  of  Zurich,  are  far  more 
varied;  but  all  the  Swiss  lakes  are  in  my  opinion  far  behind 
the  Logo  maggiore . On  the  seventh  day  we  arrived  at  length 
at  Geneva. 

* * * 

In  consequence  of  a severe  cold  I was  confined  for  some 
days  to  my  bed.  During  this  time  Herr  Dupont  and  the  Rev. 
Pastor  Gerlach , with  some  other  musical  friends,  took  some  pains 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


46 


to  make  arrangements  for  a concert.  But  it  was  easy  to  see 
beforehand  that  it  would  not  be  a very  brilliant  affair,  for  in 
part  the  prevailing  distress  and  dearness  of  provision  were 
still  too  great ; and  partly  because  several  concerts  had  taken 
place  shortly  before  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor.  The  season 
was  also  too  far  advanced,  and  the  majority  of  the  wealthy 
families  had  already  retired  to  their  country-seats.  In  fact  it 
did  not  much  more  than  cover  the  expenses.  We  also  per- 
mitted ourselves  to  be  persuaded  to  play  at  Herr  Piclet  Roche - 
mont’s  and  Herr  Dupont's  private  parties ; and  the  very  nu- 
merous company  assembled  at  both  their  tea-parties  then 
thought  it  no  longer  worth  while  coming  to  our  concert.  The 
brothers  Bohrer , who  had  been  there  a month  before  we  came, 
did  not  meet  with  better  success.  Taken  as  a whole  the  Ge- 
nevese have  very  little  taste  for  art,  and  are  always  speculat- 
ing how  they  can  best  squeeze  the  numerous  foreigners  who 
reside  there  summer  and  winter.  At  any  rate  they  know  very 
little  of  German  art  and  German  artists , and  do  not  know 
our  classical  composors  even  by  name.  The  foreign  language, 
and  the  long  French  rule  to  which  they  were  subjected,  ex- 
plains all  this  sufficiently. 

Of  all  towns  of  Switzerland  Geneva  may  boast  the  great- 
est number  of  distinguished  artists,  but  who  here,  as  almost 
everywhere  else,  are  split  into  two  or  more  parties,  and  live  a 
regular  cat-and-dog  life  among  themselves.  Of  these  the  brothers 
Hensel  and  Wolf  and  Herr  Berger  (properly  Miinzberger)  are 
the  most  prominent.  I was  so  fortunate  as  to  bring  these  gentle- 
men together  at  my  concert,  who  otherwise  never  played  to- 
gether, and  had  thus  for  a Swiss  town  a really  good  orchestra. 
The  Rev.  Pastor  Gerlach  received  us  in  the  most  friendly  man- 
ner, and  rendered  us  even  many  obliging  services;  he  even  gave 
up  to  us  the  Lutheran  church  for  our  concert,  in  which  music 
has  a very  good  effect.  Without  that  we  should  been  com- 
pelled to  give  it  in  the  dark  and  cheerless  theatre,  which  would 
have  occasioned  considerable  expense  (300  Francs). 

In  Geneva  I had  the  unexpected  pleasure  of  meeting  once 


Digitized  by  foozle 


47 


more  my  old  teacher  Kunisch  of  Brunswick.  This  worthy  man 
had  experienced  every  possible  caprice  of  fortune.  When  a 
young  man  he  was  a first-rate  hornist,  but  from  its  inducing 
at  last  a spitting  of  blood,  he  was  obliged  to  abandon  that 
instrument  to  save  his  life.  By  the  most  untiring  application 
he  then  in  three  years  attained  to  a considerable  skill  on  the 
violin,  and  subsequently  procured  an  apointment  as  first  violin 
at  the  national  theatre  in  Berlin.  When  after  the  battle  of 
Jena  the  Prussian  court  was  obliged  to  fly  from  Berlin  and 
the  royal  orchestra  was  dispersed,  he  was  driven  from  Berlin 
by  the  intrigues  of  Herr  Schick , who  much  wanted  to  obtain 
his  place.  He  then  first  went  to  Switzerland,  when  already 
advanced  in  years  he  learned  the  French  language,  and,  after- 
wards went  to  Lyons,  where  he  again  procured  an  appointment 
as  first  violin  at  the  theatre.  Well  pleased  with  his  situation 
here,  he  had  just  begun  to  feel  comfortably  settled  down,  when  by 
an  unluckly  fall  he  dislocated  his  left  hand,  which  soon  became 
perfectly  rigid,  so  that  he  could  no  longer  play  the  violin,  and 
consequently  was  obliged  to  give  up  his  situation.  He  was 
now  for  a third  time  compelled  to  learn  another  instrument, 
and  thenceforth  earned  a scanty  subsistence  as  a teacher  of 
the  piano-forte.  He  was  exceedingly  pleased  to  meet  me  again, 
and  seemed  very  proud  to  be  able  to  call  me  his  pupil. 

* * 

* 

Upon  perusing  the  here  intercalated  diary  of  the  Italian 
journey  I miss  some  incidents  which  even  now  (in  1847)  are 
so  vividly  impressed  on  my  memory  that  I cannot  forbear  ap- 
pending them  here  in  continuation. 

Mention  has  already  been  made  of  the  circumstance  that 
1 had  alone  to  thank  the  exertions  of  the  Austrian  ambassador 
Count  Apponyi  for  being  enabled  to  give  a concert  in  Rome  dur- 
ing Advent,  at  which  time  all  public  music  is  forbidden.  Count 
Apponyi  undertook  to  represent  my  request  for  permission  to 
the  governor  of  Rome,  but  advised  me  nevertheless  not  to  wait 
for  the  reply,  but  to  make  arrangements  as  quickly  as  possible 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


48 


for  the  concert,  while  he  would  procure  for  me  the  necessary 
subscribers.  I went  to  work  immediately,  but  found  my  efforts 
impeded  by  very  considerable  difficulties.  The  salon  in  the 
Ruspoli  Palace,  which  Count  Apponyi  had  procured  for  me,  was 
like  every  other  part  of  that  fine  uninhabited  building,  in  a very 
ruinous  condition.  It  was  necessary  to  re-glaze  the  windows 
in  many  places,  to  fill  up  the  holes  in  the  marble  pavement 
with  bricks,  and  to  hire  the  necessary  furniture,  chandeliers, 
seats,  music  desks,  &c.  &c.  But  it  was  first  of  all  especially 
necessary  to  cleanse  the  palace,  from  the  entrance  to  the  saloon, 
from  the  filth  with  which  the  esplanade  and  the  handsome  flight 
of  marble  steps  ornamented  with  statues  were  filled  in  such  a 
manner,  that  whole  cart-loads  of  it  required  to  be  carried  away. 
I was  also  first  obliged  to  find  one  by  one  singers  and  musi- 
cians in  the  immense  city,  and  to  engage  them  for  my  concert, 
all  of  which  occupied  a great  deal  of  time.  Until  the  day  of 
the  concert,  and  even  on  that  itself  till  the  evening,  I was  in 
continual  anxiety  lest  a refusal  of  my  request  should  arrive 
and  overthrow  every  thing  I had  done.  But  the  police  were 
so  humane,  that  they  did  not  forward  this  to  me  till  the  day 
after  the  concert  when  I had  already  in  hand  a satisfactory 
return  in  the  shape  of  receipts.  I was  hereby  relieved  of  great 
uneasiness  and  one  which  until  then  had  greatly  embittered 
my  stay  in  Rome.  My  travelling  funds  had  come  to  so  low 
an  ebb,  from  the  hitherto  scanty  receipts  from  my  concerts  in 
Italy,  that  I saw  with  alarm  they  would  in  no  manner  suffice 
for  an  extension  of  our  journey  to  Naples,  and  scarcely  even 
for  a direct  return  to  Germany.  To  be  so  near  to  Naples, 
the  most  desired  object  of  the  whole  journey,  and  now  to  turn 
back  — that  was  a reflexion  too  fearful  for  me  to  bear  with 
calmness!  I therefore  conceived  the  idea  of  applying  to  the 
Beer  family,  which  had  meanwhile  arrived  from  Venice,  for  a 
loan.  Intimate  as  was  my  friendship  with  the  son  Meyer  Beer 
(afterwards  Meyerbeer)  I could  nevertheless  not  overcome  my 
reluctance  to  express  my  wish  on  the  subject,  and  applied  there- 
fore in  preference  to  a rich  friend  of  mine  in  Alsace,  who 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


49 


however,  as  it  frequently  happens  with  such  applications,  paid 
no  attention  to  it.  But  now,  thanks  to  the  handsome  receipts 
which  my  concert  had  brought  in,  all  prospect  of  pecuniary  want 
was  dissipated,  and  I could  venture  upon  the  further  journey 
to  Naples  without  anxiety.  This  was  nevertheless  delayed  by 
the  illness  of  my  children  till  the  latter  end  of  January;  and 
as  Dorette,  wholly  occupied  with  attending  to  them,  could  now 
no  longer  accompany  me  in  my  excursions,  I kept  frequent 
company  with  the  Beer  family,  and  they  having  arrived  later, 
I could  now  serve  them  as  Cicerone.  Of  an  evening,  when  the 
light  no  longer  permitted  anything  more  to  be  seen  (for  the 
theatres  were  still  closed  during  Advent),  the  three  sons  accom- 
panied me  sometimes  to  my  lodgings,  and  we  then  shortened 
the  long  evenings  with  a game  at  whist.  As  it  was  at  that 
time,  however,  very  cold  in  Rome,  and  there  was  no  means 
of  heating  my  room,  we  used  to  set  ourselves  down  in  my 
enormous  bed  with  our  backs  turned  to  the  four  cardinal  points, 
with  the  leaf  of  a table  between  us,  and  in  that  manner  played 
our  rubber  in  comfortable  warmth  and  in  the  best  humour. 

Of  my  stay  in  Naples,  the  following  incident  is  to  be 
added. 

On  the  day  of  my  first  concert,  I received  in  the  green- 
room of  the  San  Carlo  theatre,  a visit  from  the  celebrated 
singer  Crescentini , whom  I had  already  become  acquainted 
with  in  Rome.  After  he  had  said  many  very  complimentary 
things  relative  to  my  play  and  my  compositions,  he  made  the 
following  proposition  to  me.  The  present  director,  Zingarelli , 
who,  with  his  religious  turn  of  mind,  was  very  unremitting  in 
praying  with  his  pupils,  but  who  practised  them  in  music  very 
little,  was  to  be  pensioned  off,  and  he,  Crescentini  was  applying 
for  the  appointment.  But  as  he  understood  nothing  of  instru- 
mental music,  the  Neapolitan  minister  contemplated  appointing 
a second  director  for  that,  and  had  thought  of  me,  as  my 
play  and  my  compositions  had  quite  enchanted  him  at  my  con- 
cert on  the  previous  day.  If  therefore  I felt  disposed  to  make 
an  application  for  the  place,  I was  to  accompany  him  imme- 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  IL  4 


Digitized  by 


Google 


50 


diately  to  the  minister,  where  further  proposals  would  be  made 
to  me.  This  took  place.  I returned  to  Dorette  highly  satisfied 
with  the  propositions  of  the  minister,  and  we  were  not  a little 
pleased  at  the  thoughts  of  taking  up  our  home  in  such  a 
paradise  as  Naples.  But  week  after  week  passed  away,  without 
any  further  communication  from  the  minister,  and  we  learned 
from  Crescentini  that  the  whole  project  had  been  abandoned 
by  reason  of  the  expense  it  would  entail.  We  dared  not  there- 
fore delay  any  longer  the  period  of  our  departure,  for  I again 
found  that  my  treasury  was  so  decreased  by  our  numerous 
excursions  in  the  environs  of  Naples,  which  we  had  made  in 
the  company  of  our  Silesian  friends,  and  of  which  I was  always 
obliged  to  bear  half  the  expenses,  that  my  means  would  scarcely 
suffice  for  the  return  journey  to  Switzerland. 

This  calculation  proved  indeed  but  too  correct ; for  on  our 
arrival  at  Geneva,  my  funds  were  completely  exhausted.  As  my 
concert  there  also  brought  in  but  very  little,  and  I knew  be- 
forehand that  with  the  then  (in  the  spring  of  1817)  prevailing 
famine  in  Switzerland,  but  very  little  was  to  be  earned  in  the 
other  Swiss  towns.  I for  the  first  time  in  my  life  experienced 
the  bitter  anxiety  arising  from  a want  of  the  means  of  sub- 
sistence. It  is  true  we  possessed  some  valuables  which  had 
been  presented  to  us  at  several  courts;  but  the  bare  thought 
of  being  obliged  to  sell  or  to  pledge  these,  was  still  much  too 
painful  to  our  feelings.  Necessity,  however,  compelled  us  to 
do  so.  1 was  just  on  the  point  of  looking  for  a place  where 
money  was  advanced  upon  pledges,  when  Dorette  suggested 
that  it  would  be  preferable  to  reveal  our  position  to  the  most 
friendly  of  all  our  acquaintances  there,  the  Pastor  Gerlach,  and 
offered  to  go  to  him  herself,  as  I had  not  the  courage  to  do 
so.  She  took  with  her  her  handsomest  ornament,  a diadem  of 
brilliants,  a present  from  the  Queen  of  Bavaria,  and  proceeded 
to  the  reverend  gentleman’s  house.  Never  in  all  my  life  did 
I pass  such  painful  moments  as  those  which  elapsed  during 
her  absence.  At  length,  after  a seemingly  never-ending  half 
hour,  she  returned,  and  brought  back  the  pledge  — but  with 


Digitized  by  Google 


it  the  sum  necessary  for  the  prosecution  of  our  further  journey 
She  was  still  in  a state  of  excitement  from  a fright  she  had 
experienced  there.  While,  with  the  greatest  embarrassment  and 
with  faltering  lips,  she  disclosed  to  the  Pastor  our  momentary 
necessities,  and  made  a request  for  a loan  upon  the  pledge  she 
proferred,  he  had  suddenly  burst  into  a loud  fit  of  laughter 
and  vanished  into  an  adjoining  room.  But  before  she  had  time 
to  reflect  upon  the  meaning  of  this  outburst  of  hilarity,  which 
seemed  to  her  so  greatly  out  of  place,  he  returned  bringing 
the  required  sum,  and  said  to  her  in  the  kindest  manner:  “I 
am  delighted  that  the  worthy  pair  of  artists  have  afforded  ine 
so  great  a pleasure  as  to  render  them  a service ; but  how  could 
you  think  that  a clergyman  would  lend  upon  pledges  like  a 
jew?” 

Thus,  then,  our  immediate  wants  were  relieved  and  we 
could  resume  our  journey.  We  now  first  went  to  Thierachern 
to  fetch  our  carnage  and  the  harp,  which  we  had  left  there 
the  previous  autumn.  As  Dorette  required  a little  time  to  get 
her  hand  again  into  play  upon  her  instrument,  and  we  did  not 
moreover  require  to  hurry,  as  the  favorable  period  for  concert- 
giving was  passed,  we  stayed  there  a fortnight,  practised  again 
each  forenoon  our  duets  for  harp  and  violin,  and  in  the  after- 
noons, favoured  by  the  most  beautiful  spring  weather,  visited 
Once  more  all  our  former  favorite  spots.  At  length,  however, 
We  were  obliged  to  make  up  our  minds  to  leave  the  paradise 
of  Thierachern  and  proceed  further  upon  our  artistic  tour.  In 
Switzerland  we  met  with  very  little  success,  for  the  permission  to 
give  public  concerts  was  everywhere  refused  on  account  of  the 
prevailing  famine,  and  it  was  permitted  in  Zurich  only  because 
we  there  offered  to  hand  over  a part  of  the  proceeds  to  the  poor. 
I there  played  for  the  first  time  since  my  return  to  Germany 
my  vocal  scena  and  a solo-quartet  (Op.  43)  that  1 had  begun 
in  Italy  and  finished  in  Thierachern;  both  compositions  were 
received  with  very  great  applause.  But  with  that  I was  ob- 
liged to  content  myself;  for  the  receipts  from  this  concert  were 
far  below  those  of  the  previous  year.  I could  not  therefore 

4* 


Digitized  by  Google 


52  — 


keep  my  promise  as  to  ’time,  in  the  repayment  of  the  sum  bor- 
rowed in  Geneva,  which  gave  me  much  uneasiness.  But  the 
Pastor  Gerlach,  upon  my  communicating  to  him  the  reason,  in 
excuse  for  my  failure,  returned  the  most  satisfactory  reply, 
and  I could  thus  proceed  on  my  journey  with  a mind  more 
at  ease. 

But  even  in  Germany  also,  where  we  gave  concerts  in 
Freiburg,  Carlsruhe,  Wiesbaden,  Ems,  and  Aix-la-Chapelle,  the 
receipts  were  but  middling,  on  account  of  the  generally  pre- 
vailing distress,  so  that  they  scarcely  covered  our  travelling  ex- 
penses; and  not  until  we  reached  the  last-named  town,  where 
our  play  produced  a great  sensation  and  enabled  us  to  give 
three  very  numerously  attended  concerts,  did  sufficient  remain 
to  enable  us  to  liquidate  my  debt  to  Gerlach. 

From  Naples  to  Aix-la-chapelle  we  had  now  travelled 
for  four  months  continually  in  the  direction  from  south  to 
north,  without  stopping  very  long  anywhere.  We  had  therefore 
found  everywhere  beyond  and  on  this  side  of  the  Alps,  the 
trees  in  bloom,  and  thus  enjoyed  an  extension  of  the  spring 
season  in  a degree  such  as  it  has  never  since  been  our  lot  to 
know.  At  Aix-la-Chapelle  we  arrived  in  the  height  of  summer, 
and  in  the  middle  of  the  bathing  season.  For  our  farther 
journey  to  Holland  this  was  the  most  unfavourable  time  for 
concert-giving,  and  I therefore  resolved  to  stop  some  weeks 
in  Aix-la-Chapelle.  We  had  there  become  acquainted  with  sev- 
eral zealous  musical  amateurs,  at  whose  houses  music  parties 
were  frequently  given.  I had  also  found  some  good  quartet- 
accompaniers  with  whom  I practised  my  Vienna  quartets  ami 
quintets;  and  as  they  were  greatly  admired  by  all  who  heard 
them,  I gave  them  frequently. 

We  thus  passed  the  time  of  our  stay  in  Aix-la-Chapelle 
in  a very  pleasant  manner,  equally  divided  between  work  and 
pleasure.  The  instruction  of  the  children,  which  indeed  had 
never  entirely  ceased  during  the  whole  journey,  for  we  used 
to  give  them  instruction  even  in  the  carriage  as  we  travelled 
along,  was  now  resumed  with  more  earnestness  and  regularity. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


53 


I also  began  to  compose  again,  and  wrote  there  the  first  num- 
ber of  my  four-voice  songs  for  men’s  voices  (Op.  44)  of  which 
Goethe's  uDem  Schnee,  dem  Regen”  became  afterwards  a fa- 
vorite table  song. 

Towards  autumn  we  continued  our  journey  to  Holland, 
and  on  our  way  thither  first  gave  some  concerts  at  Cologne 
and  Dusseldorf  which  were  very  well  attended.  Thence  we 
proceeded  to  Cleves,  where  we  made  the  acquaintance  of  the 
notary,  Mr.  Thomae , a zealous  friend  of  art  and  a distinguished 
dilettante,  who  played  several  instruments.  In  his  house  we  had 
music  very  frequently,  and  the  two  families,  inclusive  of  the 
children,  soon  became  so  attached  that  they  formed  a life- 
enduring  friendship.  Through  this  circumstance  our  stay  in 
Cleves  became  so  attractive  that  we  took  leave  of  the  friendly 
little  town  and, its  charming  environs  with  much  reluctance. 

The  fame  of  the  Spohr  artist-couple  had  however  not  yet 
reached  Holland,  and  we  were  therefore  first  obliged  to  break 
ground  there.  In  this  however  we  soon  succeeded.  In  that 
wealthy  land,  favourably  disposed  towards  German  art  and  Ger- 
man artists,  we  made  a great  sensation,  and  consequent  thereon 
also  a flourishing  business.  We  had  already  played  at  Rotter- 
dam and  the  Hague,  and  had  just  arrived  at  Amsterdam,  where 
we  had  also  already  made  our  appearance  in  Felix  mentis 
and  had  afterwards  given  a concert  upon  our  own  account, 
when  I received  a letter  from  Mr.  Ihlee,  director  of  the  the- 
atre at  Frankfort  on  the  Main,  in  which,  on  the  part  of  the 
shareholders  of  that  theatre,  he  offered  me  the  appointment 
of  director  of  the  opera  and  music,  and  in  case  of  my  accept- 
ance thereof,  added  the  request  that  I would  enter  upon  it 
with  all  possible  despatch.  The  terms,  it  is  true,  were  not  so 
brilliant  as  those  of  my  Vienna  appointment,  but  sufficient 
nevertheless  to  maintain  a family.  Certainly  I should  have 
liked  to  have  continued  my  artistic  tour,  in  which  I took  great 
pleasure,  at  least  till  the  spring;  but  they  were  very  pressing 
in  Frankfort,  and  Dorette  longed  once  more  for  domestic  re- 
pose. I therefore  consented  without  further  hesitation  and  set 


Digitized  by 


Google 


54 


out  immediately  upon  the  return  journey*  At  Cleves,  where 
we  alighted  at  the  friendly  house  of  the  Thomae  family,  we 
were  forced,  despite  the  pressing  urgency  to  accelerate  our 
journey,  to  stop  a few  days.  Although  it  was  now  mid-winter, 
every  thing  was  again  done  to  make  our  stay  agreeable.  Music 
parties,  sledge  excursions  and  other  amusements  succeeded  each 
other  alternately.  On  the  evening  before  our  departure,  as  we 
sat  at  the  supper-table,  cracking  nuts  and  thinking  regretfully 
of  the  approaching  parting,  my  friend  Thomae  made  the  pro- 
posal that  the  Spohr  family,  as  a memorial  of  their  presence 
there,  should  plant  one  of  the  nuts  in  the  garden.  This  pro- 
position was  received  with  general  acclamation.  Upon  a spade 
being  brought,  both  families,  wrapped  in  warm  cloaks,  re- 
paired in  procession  to  the  garden,  in  the  very  centre  of  which, 
after  I had  cleared  away  the  snow,  I dug  a hole,  in  which 
the  children  planted  the  nut.  In  the  following  spring  the 
appearance  of  the  germ  above  ground  was  announced  to  us 
at  Frankfort.  This,  carefully  protected  by  a circular  fence, 
grew  by  degrees  to  a fine  tree,  and  even  now  (1852)  the  Tho- 
mae family,  as  one  of  the  sons  not  long  since  informed  me, 
thinks  with  pleasurable  feelings  of  that  evening  and  the  absent 
friends. 

In  Frankfort  I was  received  by  the  shareholders  of  the 
theatre  and  by  the  whole  company  of  the  theatre  and  orchestra 
in  the  most  friendly  manner.  A dinner  was  given  in  my  hon- 
our in  the  the  saloon  of  the  “Weidenbusch”  at  which  the 
usual  toasts  were  given  and  speeches  made  in  due  form.  The 
orchestra,  which,  under  the  able  direction  of  its  previous  leader 
Mr.  Schmitty  had  acquired  the  reputation  of  being  one  of  the 
best  in  Germany,  I found  somewhat  deteriorated,  from  his 
long  illness.  But  as  a ready  disposition  was  shewn  by  all  to 
meet  my  wishes  and  arrangements,  and  as  they  soon  accus- 
tomed themselves  to  my  method  of  directing,  the  former  en- 
semble was  soon  re-established.  My  predecessor  had  led  with 
the  violin,  and  by  the  wish  of  the  singers  I began  also  in  the 
asme  manner,  indicating  the  time  with  the  bow,  and  keeping 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


55 


the  violin  ready  at  hand,  in  order  to  assist  with  that  when 
necessary.  But  I soon  accustomed  them  to  so  precise  a prac- 
tise of  their  parts  that  such  assistance  as  that  was  soon  no 
longer  necessary.  I now  laid  the  violin  aside  and  directed  in 
the  French  style,  with  the  baton. 

The  routine  of  business  on  the  Frankfort  stage  was  at 
that  time  as  follows : the  managers  chosen  by  the  shareholders, 
met  every  week  the  technical  directors  (Mr.  Ihlee  for  the 
drama  and  I for  the  opera)  at  a sitting  at  which  the  pro- 
gramme for  the  week  was  agreed  upon  and  everything  con- 
cerning the  management  arranged.  The  preeses , or  senior 
of  this  directory,  was  a merchant  of  the  name  of  Leers , 
who  liked  the  office  and  therefore  always  managed  to  be  re- 
elected. In  the  course  of  time  he  had  acquired  a certain 
tact  in  the  routine  of  managing  the  theatre,  and  spoke  usu- 
ally therefore  in  a very  decided  tone.  His  whole  endeavour 
was  directed  to  economy,  in  order  to  diminish  the  yearly  re- 
curring deficit  of  from  14  to  17,000  florins,  which  the  share- 
holders were  obliged  to  cover.  He  liked  best  the  singers,  per- 
formers and  musicians,  who  engaged  at  the  lowest  salaries, 
and  in  the  choice  of  the  operas  and  plays  which  were  to  be 
given  he  always  decided  upon  those  which  would  entail  the 
least  expense.  Ihlee  and  I had  also  an  especial  interest  in 
getting  rid  of  the  deficit,  as  we  had  a share  in  any  overplus 
secured  to  us  by  agreement:  but  we  thought  this  would  be 
much  more  surely  attained  if  an  endeavour  was  made  to  raise 
the  character  of  the  theatre  by  engaging  distinguished  talent 
and  the  representation  of  classical  works.  We  were  therefore 
frequently  in  opposition  to  Mr.  Leers  and  his  colleagues,  and 
one  of  them  only,  Mr.  Clement  Brentano , entertained  the  same 
opinion  as  ourselves.  But  he  seldom  succeeded  in  obtaining 
the  victory  for  it,  as  it  was  always  his  custom  to  defend  it 
merely  with  light  sallies  of  wit  and  sarcasm.  The  animosity 
which  sprung  out  of  this  difference  of  opinion  between  Mr. 
Leers  and  myself  was  not  perceptible,  however,  till  a later 
period,  for  at  first  we  agreed  very  well.  It  was  therefore  not 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


56 


very  difficult  for  me  to  obtain  the  consent  of  the  managers 
to  bring  out  my  opera  “Faust.”  I was  very  desirous  of  at 
length  hearing  this  work,  which  I had  written  five  years  be- 
fore at  Vienna,  and  I hastened  all  the  preparations  as  much 
as  possible.  As  there  was  no  baritone  among  the  singers  of 
the  theatre  who  could  satisfactorily  take  the  part  of  Faust, 
I was  obliged  to  give  it  to  the  tenor,  Mr.  Sehelble , afterwards 
the  founder  and  director  of  the  society  of  St.  Cecilia,  who 
possessed  in  his  mezzo-tenore , the  necessary  compass  as  also 
the  requisite  skill  in  execution.  After  the  rehearsals  had  com- 
menced, Sehelble  expressed  the  wish  that  I would  write  another 
air  for  him  which  would  shew  his  voice  off  to  more  advantage 
than  those  which  were  in  the  opera.  As  I found  a suitable  place 
for  its  introduction  immediately  after  the  duet  at  the  com- 
mencement, and  Mr.  George  Boring  (hautboy  of  the  orchestra 
and  subsequently  a much  admired  romance  writer)  furnished 
me  with  appropriate  words  for  it,  I was  very  pleased  to  be 
enabled  to  satisfy  Schelble's  wish.  This  air:  “Liebe  ist  die 
zarte  Bliithe”  (Love  is  the  tender  blossom),  which  was  after- 
wards so  frequently  sung  at  concerts,  and  innumerable  times 
in  London  by  PisckeJc,  is  therefore  the  first  thing  I composed 
in  Frankfort.  Meanwhile  the  study  of  the  opera  had  proceeded 
so  well  that  it  could  be  announced  and  performed  for  the  first 
time  in  March  (1818).  At  first,  it  is  true,  it  pleased  the  great 
majority  less  than  the  connoisseurs,  but  with  each  represent- 
ation gained  more  admirers;  so  that  from  that  time  it  has  re- 
mained almost  constantly  in  the  repertorium  of  the  Frankfort 
stage,  and  has  been  studied  anew  after  short  intervals. 

This  success  encouraged  me  to  new  dramatic  compositions. 
I therefore  looked  about  me  for  the  materials  for  a work  of 
the  kind,  and  found  one  that  suited  me  in  Appel's  book  of 
ghost  stories,  in  the  tale  called  “Der  schwarze  Jager”  (the 
black  huntsman).  Boring , with  whom  I spoke  upon  the  sub- 
ject, offered  to  work  it  out  as  an  opera.  We  devised  together 
a plot  which  differed  chiefly  from  Kind's  text-book  (which  was 
at  that  time  as  yet  unknown  to  us)  in  this,  that  we  retained 


Digitized  by  Google 


57 


the  tragical  conclusion  of  the  story.  As  soon  as  Boring  had 
written  the  first  scenes,  I immediately  set  about  the  composi- 
tion. The  introduction  was  already  for  the  most  part  sketched 
out,  when  the  celebrated  tragedian  Madame  Schroder , and  her 
daughter,  the  afterwards  more  celebrated  Schr6der-Devrient9 
came  to  Frankfort,  and  during  her  visit  saw  the  work  I was 
engaged  upon  on  the  piano.  They  then  informed  that  C.  M. 
von  Weber  was  composing  music  for  the  same  subject  as  an 
opera,  and  had  already  finished  the  first  act.  This  induced 
me  to  lay  my  work  aside,  as  I had  reason  to  fear  Weber  would 
come  forward  with  his  opera  much  earlier  than  I.  As  it  after- 
wards proved,  however,  such  was  not  the  case;  for  the  “Frei- 
schiitz”  appeared  first  in  1820,  and  my  opera  “Zelmira  and 
Azor,”  which  I began  almost  a year  later,  Was  already  given 
on  the  4th  April  1819.  Nevertheless  I have  not  regretted 
that  I abandoned  the  materials  of  Appel's  story,  for  with  my 
music,  which  is  not  adapted  to  please  the  multitude  and  excite 
the  popular  enthusiasm,  I should  never  have  met  with  the  un- 
exampled success  that  the  “Freischiitz”  met  with. 

As  I was  now  again  obliged  to  look  about  me  for  a li- 
bretto, I began  meanwhile  to  write  quartets.  The  chief  reason 
for  this  was  the  solicitation  of  some  lovers  of  that  kind  of 
music  to  institute  public- quartet  performances,  which  had  not 
hitherto  been  given  in  Frankfort.  At  these  I wished  also  to  be 
enabled  to  bring  forward  some  new  compositions,  and  for  that 
purpose  I wrote  in  the  course  of  the  summer  the  three  quar- 
tets (Op.  45).  When  I played  the  first  of  these  at  a musical 
soiree  at  Schelble’s,  Jean  Paul  was  one  of  the  audience.  He 
appeared  to  interest  himself  very  much  for  this  new  composi- 
tion and  ascribed  to  it  a highly  poetical  signification,  of  which 
while  composing  it  I certainly  never  thought,  but  which  re- 
curred in  a very  striking  manner  to  my  mind  at  every  sub- 
sequent performance  of  the  quartet. 

On  the  29th  July  1818  my  family  was  again  increased  by 
the  birth  of  a little  daughter,  who  was  christened  by  the  name 
of  Theresa  after  her  godmother  Mrs.  Thomae  of  Cleves,  and 


Digitized  by 


Google 


58 


was  held  over  the  font  by  my  friend  Speyer . Dorette  now  felt 
very  happy  at  having  a permanent-dwelling  place,  so  as  to  be 
able  to  devote  herself  wholly  to  the  care  of  the  new  visitor. 

In  the  autumn  began  the  first  set  of  the  public  quar- 
tets in  the  little  saloon  of  the  “Rothes  Haus.”  The  assist- 
ants were : second  violin  the  concertmaster  Mr.  Hofmann , viol 
Mr.  Bayer,  violoncello  Mr.  Hasemann , at  that  time  bass-trum- 
pet of  the  orchestra,  and  afterwards  first  violincellist  of  the 
Cassel  orchestra.  I brought  forward  some  quartets  of  Haydn, 
Mozart,  Beethoven,  and  some  of  my  own,  which  we  had  prac- 
tised in  the  most  careful  manner  in  two  rehearsals.  They  made 
therefore  a great  sensation  by  the  precision  of  their  execution, 
and  were  so  well  received  that  in  the  course  of  the  winter 
another  set  could  be  given. 

In  September  1818  I began  also  the  composition  of  the 
new  opera.  Mr.  Ihlee  had  proposed  as  subject  the  text  of  the 
formerly  very  much  admired  opera  “La  Belle  et  la  Bite,”  by 
Gretry.  As  this  at  that  time  had  wholly  disappeared  from  the 
German  repertory,  and  was  wholly  unknown  to  the  younger 
generation,  I readily  assented  to  the  proposition;  for  from 
my  earliest  youth  I had  a predeliction  for  this  tale,  and  even 
remembered  an  air  of  Gretry's  opera,  that  namely  of  Zelmira 
with  the  echo,  which  as  a boy  I had  frequently  heard  my 
mother  sing,  and  also  sung  myself.  Herr  Ihlee  offered  to  alter 
the  text  to  the  style  of  the  modern  opera,  which,  as  he  well 
understood  stage  business,  he  did  greatly  to  my  satisfaction. 
— At  that  time  Rossini's  music  became  then  first  known  in 
Germany,  and  “Tancred”  in  particular  brought  down  a very 
storm  of  applause  in  Frankfort.  Almost  at  every  sitting  of 
the  theatre  I was  obliged  to  hear  from  Mr.  Leers  the  words: 
“That  is  an  opera  that  pleases  and  attracts  the  public,  you 
must  bring  out  more  of  that  kind !”  — Little  as  I was  an  ad- 
mirer of  Rossini's  music,  as  the  severe  criticism  thereof  in  the 
diary  of  the  Italian  journey  shews,  yet  the  applause  which 
“Tancred”  had  met  with  in  Frankfort  was  not  wholly  with- 
out influence  on  the  style  of  my  new  opera.  I was  further- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


59 


more  induced  to  this  by  the  considerable  power  of  execution 
possessed  by  four  singers  (Miss  Friedel , the  sisters  Campagnoli, 
and  Mr.  Schelble ) who  were  at  my  command.  This  explains 
why  the  music  to  “Zelmira  and  Azor”  has  so  much  colouring 
and  vocal  ornamentation  in  the  parts  sustained  by  the  three 
sisters,  and  that  of  Azor.  The  opera  was  studied  most  atten- 
tively by  the  singers  and  the  orchestra,  and  met  with  great 
success  at  the  very  first  representation,  indeed  a more  general 
one  than  “Faust,”  which  however,  at  a later  period,  both  in 
Frankfort  and  the  rest  of  Germany,  reassumed  the  place  in 
public  estimation  which  its  real  merits  as  an  opera  more  pro- 
perly justified. 

During  the  course  of  the  winter  I gave  another  concert 
with  my  wife,  for  which  I had  written  a new  sonata  for  harp 
and  violin.  As,  since  I had  once  more  a fixed  residence,  pu- 
pils again  presented  themselves,  both  native  and  foreign,  I 
was  overburdened  with  work  the  whole  winter.  When  spring  at 
length  came  I was  therefore  very  desirous  of  a little  rest  and  I 
was  well  pleased  when  four  of  my  earlier  musical  friends  of 
Rudolstadt,  Messrs,  von  Holleben , Muller , Sommer  and  Methfessel, 
came  to  Frankfort  and  urged  me  to  accompany  them  to  Mann- 
heim, where  a musical  festival  was  to  take  place.  I managed 
to  get  leave  of  absence  for  eight  days,  and  joined  the  party. 
From  Darmstadt,  where  the  charming  mountain -road  begins, 
we  went  on  foot  to  Heidelberg,  and  carried  oujr  necessary 
luggage  in  knapsacks,  on  our  backs.  Three  of  the  Rudol- 
stadter,  Miiller,  Sommer  and  von  Holleben , who  were  first-rate 
harmonists,  had  strapped  their  horns  upon  their  knapsacks,  and 
Methfessel , who  accompanied  our  four-part  songs  with  the  guitar, 
carried  his  instrument  slung  by  a band  over  bis  shoulders.  In 
this  manner  our  travelling-party,  notwithstanding  their  respect- 
able exterior,  had  completely  the  appearance  of  an  itinerant 
music-band,  and  as,  in  high  and  jocund  spirits,  we  always  en- 
tered all  the  villages  and  small  towns  either  playing  or  singing, 
we  had  always  a long  train  of  jovial  listeners,  and  numerous 
applications  to  “strike  up,”  which,  to  the  great  regret  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


60 


applicants,  were  of  course  not  complied  with.  We  made  short 
stages,  and  ascended  the  ruins  of  several  castles  which  lay 
near  our  road.  There  we  partook  of  the  meal  brought  with 
us  from  the  neighbouring  inn  and  seasoned  it  with  horn-music, 
song  and  mirthful  jest.  On  the  third  day  we  arrived  at  Hei- 
delberg, where  we  visited  the  castle.  A flourish  of  horns  soon 
brought  a number  of  hearers  around  us,  who  were  highly  de- 
lighted with  our  four-part  songs  and  MethfesseVs  comic  lyrics. 
As  we  had  inscribed  our  names  in  the  visitors’  book,  it  soon 
became  known  in  the  town  that  I and  some  musical  friends 
were  on  our  way  to  the  festival  at  Mannheim,  and  in  the 
evening  a deputation  from  the  Heidelberg  musical  society  made 
its  appearance  at  our  inn  with  an  invitation  to  make  the  pas- 
sage to  Mannheim  the  next  morning  on  board  the  society’s 
vessel.  We  consented  with  very  great  pleasure. 

This  voyage  was  the  most  brilliant  episode  in  the  whole 
journey.  When  I and  my  companions  set  foot  on  board  the 
vessel,  which  was  dressed  out  with  festoons  of  flowers  up  to 
the  top  of  the  mast  we  were  welcomed  in  the  most  friendly 
manner  by  the  already  assembled  male  and  female  singers, 
with  a choral-song.  While  the  boat  was  passing  directly  after- 
wards between  high  rocky  banks  on  either  side,  which  threw 
back  the  echo,  the  Rudolstadter  first  returned  the  compliment 
with  their  horns,  which  had  a fine  effect  there.  Then  followed 
our  songs,  and  Methfessel  again  distinguished  himself  in  par- 
ticular by  the  execution  of  his  humorous  songs,  which  he  ac- 
companied in  a masterly  manner  on  the  guitar.  These  put 
the  whole  company  in  the  merriest  mood.  As  we  drew  near 
the  end  of  our  journey  we  were  met  and  welcomed  by  the 
Mannheim  musical  society  on  board  several  boats  decorated 
with  flags  and  flowers.  My  presence  on  board  the  Heidelberg 
boat  was  already  known.  The  committee  of  the  festival  there- 
fore saluted  me  and  my  companions,  and  presented  us  with 
tickets  of  admission  to  the  rehearsals  and  performances.  To 
me  even  apartments  were  offered  in  a private  house,  which  I 
was  however  obliged  to  decline,  as  it  would  separate  me  from 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


61 


my  companions.  As  soon  as  we  had  landed,  therefore,  we 
sought  for  an  inn.  Unfortunately,  however,  we  found  it  al- 
ready so  full  of  visitors  that  we  were  obliged  all  live  to  ac- 
commodate ourselves  in  one  room,  and  the  next  day  the  crowd 
of  applicants  for  lodging  was  so  great  that  we  had  great  diffi- 
culty in  protecting  our  room  from  the  invasion  of  yet  more 
guests.  In  the  evening,  since,  as  may  be  readily  supposed,  beds 
were  not  to  be  had,  we  lay  down  contented  beside  each  other 
on  some  clean  straw,  nor  was  our  good  humour  in  the  least 
disturbed  thereby. 

As  regards  the  musical  performances,  I now  only  recollect 
that  I and  my  companions,  who,  together  with  me,  had  assisted 
at  the  festival  at  Frankenhausen,  were  not  so  satisfied  with 
the  effect  of  the  music  here  as  there,  which  can  alone  be 
accounted  for  by  the  circumstance  that  the  performance  at 
Frankenhausen  took  place  in  the  church,  a place  sonorous  and 
well  adapted  on  account  of  its  excellent  acoustic  qualities,  while 
at  Mannheim  they  were  given  in  the  theatre. 

On  the  third  day  we  set  out  upon  our  return  journey. 
As  the  road  from  Mannheim  to  Mayence  would  have  been  too 
uninteresting  to  travel  on  foot,  we  hired  a boat  with  two  vig- 
orous rowers,  and  went  by  water.  But  in  this  way  also  the 
journey  was  rather  tedious.  We  had,  moreover,  passed  the 
previous  night  at  a ball,  and  felt  very  tired ; it  was  therefore 
no  wonder  that  we  sought  to  make  up  for  the  lost  night’s  rest, 
and  passed  the  greater  part  of  the  time  in  sleep.  On  our 
arrival  at  Mayence  we  nevertheless  met  with  a little  adven- 
ture which  put  us  in  the  merriest  mood  during  the  last  hours 
of  our  being  together.  Evening  was  drawing  in  when,  after 
our  landing,  we  proceeded  to  look  for  the  best  inn  in  the  town. 
Just  as  we  were  about  to  enter  it,  in  the  already  described 
dress  of  travelling  musicians,  the  host,  who  was  looking  out  of 
the  window,  called  out  to  us  in  an  angry  tone  of  voice:  uBe  off 
with  you  I we  don’t  take  in  such  people  as  you!”  This  style 
of  address  amused  me  amazingly,  as  I had  frequently  joked 
my  companions  upon  their  dress,  and  laughing,  I called  out  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


62 


Mr.  von  Holleben:  “High  warden  of  forests,  did  you  hear 
that?  they  will  not  take  us  in  here;  we  must  look  for  another 
inn!”  But  the  host,  startled  at  hearing  my  friend  addressed 
by  such  a grand  title,  darted  down-stairs  in  a minute  and  made 
his  appearance  immediately  in  the  street,  and  with  bows  in- 
numerable entreated  the  gentlemen  to  walk  in  and  graciously 
pardon  his  silly  mistake !”  As  we  followed  him  into  the  house 
and  were  all  ushered  by  him  into  the  well-lighted  dining  room, 
his  embarrassment  was  ludicrous  in  the  extreme:  our  highly 
respectable  appearance  seemed  now  to  allay  all  his  fears,  when 
the  unlucky  horns  strapped  upon  the  knapsacks,  and  Meth - 
fesseVs  guitar  suspended  from  his  neck,  excited  new  doubts  as 
to  whether  we  were  guests  worthy  of  entertainement  in  his 
house.  But  when  we  ordered  three  rooms  with  wax  lights 
(which  latter  I purposely  mentioned),  five  beds  and  a good 
supper,  all  uttered  in  the  curt  imperative  tone  of  persons  of 
importance,  his  last  lingering  scruples  vanished,  and  his  whole 
demeanour  became  thenceforth  cringingly  servile.  This  speci- 
men of  the  mean  vulgarity  of  innkeeper-nature  amused  us  long, 
and  was  subject  of  mirth  up  to  the  last  moment  of  our  being 
together.  The  next  morning;  as  my  leave  of  absence  was  ex- 
pired, I returned  to  Frankfort  and  the  Rudolstadter  continued 
their  journey  down  the  Rhine,  as  they  had  proposed. 

As  I entered  my  house,  the  children  ran  joyfully  to  meet 
me,  but  my  wife,  who  had  been  in  very  low  spirits  at  our* 
parting  the  week  before,  was  now  suffering  extremely  from  the 
shock  sustained  from  a fright.  In  order  that  the  reader  may 
understand  the  cause  of  this,  I must  advert  to  some  previous 
incidents  that  had  occurred  while  in  Frankfort. 

In  the  latter  part  of  the  autumn  of  1818  Turner , a player 
on  the  hautboy,  came  to  Frankfort.  I had  previously  known 
him  in  Brunswick,  where  we  were  both  members  of  the  or- 
chestra. Already  at  that  time  Turner  distinguished  himself 
greatly  by  his  skill  upon  that  instrument,  as  also  by  his  talent 
for  composition.  Upon  his  subsequent  travels,  particularly 
while  in  Vienna,  where  he  lived  some  time,  he  had  acquired 


Digitized  by 


Google 


63 


the  reputation  of  being  the  first  of  living  hautboyists.  At  the 
same  time,  however,  many  strange  stories  were  current  of  his 
residence  there;  of  a liaison  with  a lady  of  rank,  whom  he 
afterwards  accused  of  having  given  him  poison  in  a cup  of 
coffee.  A criminal  inquiry  was  instituted,  whereat  it  was 
elicited  that  he  had  periodical  fits  of  insanity,  at  which  times 
he  was  possessed  with  the  fixed  idea  of  being  poisoned.  These 
relations  concerning  him,  which  passed  from  mouth  to  mouth, 
imparted  to  him  a certain  interest,  and  his  concerts  were  on 
that  account  most  numerously  attended.  I found  him  on  his 
arrival  in  Frankfort  — for  he  immediately  paid  me  a visit  — 
more  earnest  and  reserved,  it  is  true,  than  when  I was  pre- 
viously acquainted  with  him  in  Brunswick,  but  otherwise  re- 
marked nothing  whatever  peculiar  in  him.  As  his  play  pleased 
very  much,  and  as  I knew  moreover  that  his  orchestral  skill 
was  very  great,  and  as  from  Gecnge  Boring's  retirement  from 
the  orchestra  (he  had  now  thought  of  devoting  himself  entirely 
to  authorship),  a vacancy  had  occurred  for  a hautboy  player 
— I proposed  at  the  next  sitting  of  the  theatrical  committee 
that  Turner  should  be  engaged  as  first  hautboy.  The  salary  he 
asked  was  not  unusually  high,  and  therefore  the  proposition  met 
with  no  opposition,  even  Mr.  Leers  himself  making  no  ob- 
jection. Turner  took  his  place  therefore  in  the  orchestra,  and 
proved  a real  acquisition  by  the  tasteful  execution  of  his  soli 
and  by  his  fine  tone.  After  some  time,  however,  a remark- 
able melancholy  was  observed  in  him,  which  gradually  increased 
so  much,  that  at  length  not  a word  above  a whisper  was  to  be 
got  from  him.  Nevertheless  he  always  performed  his  orches- 
tral duties  with  punctuality,  so  that  I hoped  these  periods 
of  sadness  would  pass  off  without  further  results.  Soon  how- 
ever they  assumed  the  character  of  complete  aberration  of 
mind,  in  which  the  fixed  idea  of  the  Vienna  poisoning  again 
evinced  itself.  It  was  now  full  time  to  remove  him  from  the 
orchestra,  to  prevent  the  possiblity  of  some  unpleasant  occur- 
rence. Boring , a near  relation  of  Turner's,  undertook  to  provide 
for  him  and  get  him  cured,  and  engaged  also  to  temporarily 


Digitized  by 


Google 


64 


fill  his  place.  The  malady  now  soon  increased  with  such  vio- 
lence, that  it  was  necessary  to  have  him  constantly  watched 
by  keepers.  One  evening,  nevertheless,  he  suceeded  in  escap- 
ing from  them  scarcely  half-clothed.  During  a violent  snow- 
storm he  wandered  about  in  the  open  fields  half  the  night, 
nor  did  he  return  home  till  towards  morning,  covered  with  a 
thick  crust  of  snow  and  ice.  As  he  had  immediately  gone  to 
bed  in  this  condition,  the  doctor  found  him  in  the  morning 
bathed  in  perspiration  and  in  a violent  fever.  This  perhaps, 
however,  brought  about  a crisis,  for  from  that  day  he  got 
better,  and  he  was  soon  enabled  to  resume  his  duties  in  the 
orchestra  with  fully  restored  sanity  of  mind.  I remarked, 
nevertheless,  that  for  about  eight  days  in  every  month,  and  al- 
ways with  the  moon’s  increase,  he  was  visited  by  a slight  return 
of  his  melancholy  madness,  which  announced  itself  beforehand 
by  a fixed  look  and  a certain  feverish  restlessness.  I then,  with 
Doring's  assistance,  managed  to  keep  him  away  from  the  or- 
chestra for  a few  days,  until  his  more  cheerful  look  bespoke 
anew  his  recovery.  In  this  manner  Turner  performed  his  du- 
ties up  to  the  summer  and  it  was  hoped  that  by  degrees  he 
would  also  be  cured  of  these  slighter  attacks  also.  In  the 
latter  part  of  this  time  he  again,  as  formerly,  called  upon  me 
now  and  then,  and  even  spent  the  evening  with  me,  and  de- 
meaned himself  in  a friendly  manner  towards  my  wife,  and 
shewed  much  interest  in  the  children.  When  therefore  I went 
to  Mannheim  with  my  Rudolstadt  friends,  it  did  not  at  first 
appear  at  all  strange  to  Dorette  to  see  him  walk  one  morn- 
ing into  the  room;  but  as,  without  any  salutation  or  uttering 
a word,  he  sat  down  opposite  to  her  and  gazed  upon  her  with 
his  eyes  fixed,  she  began  to  feel  uneasy,  and  was  at  length 
seized  with  fear.  As  she  was  quite  alone  with  him  (the  children 
being  at  school)  she  was  about  to  call  in  a needlewoman,  who 
was  sewing  in  the  adjoining  room ; but  scarcely  had  she  risen 
than  he  also  sprang  up  and  clasped  her  in  his  arms.  With  a 
shriek  of  terror  she  tore  herself  from  his  grasp,  rushed  into 
the  adjoining  room,  the  door  of  which  the  sempstress  had  then 


Digitized  by  foozle 


65 


just  opened,  and  she  succeeded  in  closing  and  bolting  the  door 
before  Turner  could  follow  her.  There  was,  however,  unfortu- 
nately no  further  issue  from  this  room,  and  the  two  terrified 
women  found  themselves  besieged  by  the  madman.  His  en- 
deavours to  force  the  lock  they  met  by  pressing  against  the 
door  with  their  whole  weight,  and  all  the  strength  which  terror 
imparted  to  them;  and  succeeded,  for  after  a few  vain  efforts 
he  abandoned  his  purpose,  ran  down  the  stairs  and  out  of 
the  house.  Dorette  now  felt  about  to  faint,  was  obliged  to 
send  for  the  doctor,  and  kept  her  bed  for  some  days.  After 
my  return,  her  pleasure  thereat  and  the  assurance  of  again 
being  under  my  protection,  soon  restored  her,  and  thus  this 
circumstance  was  fortunately  attended  by  no  worse  results. 
For  the  unfortunate  young  man  this  last  violent  outbreak  of  his 
malady  entailed  his  discharge  by  the  directors  of  the  theatre. 
After  again  recovering,  he  went  to  Holland,  and  at  first  gave 
there  several  concerts  in  which  he  was  greatly  applauded,  and 
which  were  also  very  remunerative;  but  upon  a fresh  attack 
was  put  into  a mad  house,  where  he  soon  afterwards  died. 
The  world  lost  in  him  a very  great  musical  genius,  the  full 
development  of  which  was  barred  by  the  sad  affliction  that  be- 
fel  him. 

Meanwhile  the  acrimony  of  feeling  that  existed  between 
Mr.  Leers  and  myself  became  constantly  more  apparent,  and 
a sitting  of  the  directors  seldom  passed  over  without  a regular 
dispute.  He  asserted  that  I required  too  much  time  for  the 
study  and  production  of  new  pieces  because  I was  too  fasti- 
dious in  the  matter.  He  expressed  the  opinion,  that  a new 
opera  ought  to  be  studied  every  fortnight,  or  at  least  an 
old  one  completed  in  those  parts  that  required  to  be  newly 
filled  up.  In  vain  I represented  to  him,  that  it  was  impos- 
sible for  an  opera  that  was  carelessly  studied  to  go  off  well, 
and  therefore  that  it  never  could  give  satisfaction;  that  once 
brought  into  discredit,  it  would  draw  no  audience,  and  then 
the  time  and  money  expended  upon  it  would  be  sheer  waste. 
With  this  self-willed,  obstinate  man,  who,  moreover,  before 

SPOH&,  Autobiography.  IL  5 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


66 


my  appointment  had  never  met  with  any  opposition  in  the 
management,  every  sensible  representation  was  ineffectual ; and 
as  I would  not  allow  any  opera  to  be  brought  out  until  it 
had  been  studied  thoroughly  as  far  as  the  means  and  strength 
of  the  company  allowed,  our  contest  never  ceased.  This,  to- 
gether with  an  intimation  made  by  Mr.  Leers  at  a general 
meeting  of  the  shareholders,  “that  for  their  theatre  they  did 
not  require  a musical  artist  of  eminence,  but  merely  a good  in- 
defatigable workman,  who  would  devote  his  whole  time  and 
energies  to  the  theatre,”  induced  me  to  give  in  my  resig- 
nation at  the  next  meeting  of  the  committee,  to  date  from  the 
end  of  September  (1819).  The  news  of  this  soon  spread  through 
the  town,  and  excited  general  regret  among  the  lovers  of 
music*.  Borne , in  his  journal  “The  Balance”  gave  expression  to 
his  sentiments  on  the  subject,  and  indeed  in  a by  no  means 
gentle  manner  towards  the  theatrical -committee  of  manage- 
ment. I left  Frankfort  with  a light  heart,  for  my  summons 
to  that  town  had  only  been  an  interruption  to  the  gratifica- 
tion of  my  love  of  travelling;  but  my  good  wife  was  very 
grieved  at  it  — she  who  looked  forward  to  the  consequent  se- 
paration from  the  children,  as  these,  from  requiring  now  a re- 
gular school  education,  could  no  longer  be  taken  with  us  on 
our  artistic  tours.  But  I consoled  her  nevertheless  with  the 
promise  that  she  should  always  pass  the  summer  months  with 
her  children,  and  only  travel  with  me  during  a period  of  from 
four  to  five  months  in  the  winter.  Before  my  departure  from 
Frankfort  I had  accepted  an  engagement  from  the  Philharmonic 
Society  of  London  for  the  next  season  of  the  sitting  of  Par- 
liament, which  engagement  was  offered  me  by  Ferdinand  Ries, 
the  celebrated  pianist  and  composer,  in  the  name  of  the  so- 
ciety. This  had  been  instituted  but  a few  years  before  by 
from  twelve  to  sixteen  of  the  most  eminent  musical  artists  in 
London:  Clementi , the  two  Cramers , Moscheles,  Ries , Potter , 
Smart , and  others,  with  the  object  of  giving  every  year  eight 
grand  concerts  during  the  season.  Notwithstanding  the  very 
high  price  of  admission,  the  number  of  subscribers  was  so 


Digitized  by  Google 


67 


great,  that  many  hundreds  of  those  who  had  inscribed  their 
names  could  not  obtain  seats  at  the  commencement  of  the 
season,  and  could  obtain  them  only  by  degrees  in  the  course 
of  the  summer.  The  funds  of  the  society  were  therefore  so 
great,  that  they  could  not  only  engage  the  first  artists  and 
singers  in  London  for  the  soi  in  their  concerts,  but  the  most 
reputed  musicians  on  the  Continent.  — In  this  manner  I was 
also  engaged  for  the  season  of  1820,  and  for  a considerable 
remuneration,  which  secured  to  me  the  expenses  of  the  journey 
thither  and  return,  and  the  expenses  of  a four  months’  resi- 
dence in  London,  I undertook  the  performance  of  a fourfold 
duty.  I was  required,  namely,  to  direct  some  of  the  eight 
concerts,  to  play  soli  in  some,  to  assist  in  all  of  them  as  or- 
chestra violinist,  and  lastly  to  leave  in  the  hands  of  the  so- 
ciety as  their  own  property  one  of  my  orchestral  compositions. 
At  the  same  time  a benefit  concert  was  also  insured  to  me  in  the 
rooms  of  the  society,  with  the  joint  assistance  of  the  orchestra. 
Although  my  wife  was  not  included  in  this  engagement,  yet  I 
could  not  make  up  my  mind  to  leave  her  behind  me  for  four 
long  months.  It  was  therefore  resolved,  on  consulting  with  my 
family,  that  my  wife  should  accompany  me  and  make  her  appea- 
rance as  artiste  in  London  at  least  in  my  own  concerts.  As  the 
season  commenced  in  the  middle  of  February,  and  therefore  the 
sea-passage  would  be  made  at  the  roughest  time  of  the  year,  we 
resolved,  in  order  to  shorten  it  as  much  as  possible,  to  go  by 
way  of  Calais ; and  in  order  to  be  enabled  to  give  concerts  on 
the  journey  in'  the  Belgian  and  French  towns,  to  set  out  six 
or  eight  weeks  earlier.  We  first  proceeded  to  Gandersheim  to 
my  parents,  who  had  undertaken  the  care  and  education  of 
the  children  during  the  winter,  and  then  set  out  upon  an 
artistic  tour  to  Hamburg,  where  we  gave  two  concerts  with 
very  great  success.  I played  there,  before  highly  respectable 
audiences,  my  new  quartets,  which  had  been  previously  pub- 
lished there : they  were  exceedingly  well  accompanied,  and  as 
violinist  upon  those  occasions  I made  the  most  sensation  with 

5* 


Digitized  by  foozle 


68 


my  two  solo-quartets.  I played  likewise  a few  times  the  two 
quintets,  and  I found  the  passion  for  this  kind  of  music  to 
be  greater  here  than  anywhere  else,  except  perhaps  in  Vienna. 
In  the  catalogue  of  my  compositions.  GodhcJs  ballad  *Wcnn 
die  Reben  bluhen”  is  enumerated  as  composed  by  me  in  Ham- 
burg, but  I do  not  now  recollect  the  reason  of  its  being  so 
designated. 

We  then  proceeded  to  Berlin,  Dresden,  Leipsxe,  CasseL 
and  other  places,  in  all  of  which  we  gave  concerts,  but  re- 
specting all  of  them  1 now  no  longer  remember  anything  par- 
ticular. Of  our  performances  in  Berlin  one  of  the  newspapers 
gave  a most  favourable  notice. 

In  Brussels  we  found  another  travelling  artist-couple  who, 
like  ourselves,  gave  performances  on  the  harp  and  violin. 
They  were  Monsieur  Alexandre  Boucher  and  wife  from  Paris. 
I had  already  heard  a good  deal  about  him  and  was  there- 
fore very  desirous  of  making  his  personal  acquaintance.  Bou- 
cher had  the  reputation  of  being  a distinguished  violinist,  but 
a great  charlatan  also.  He  bore  a striking  resemblance  to 
Napoleon , both  in  the  features  of  his  face  and  in  his  figure, 
and  did  his  best  to  turn  this  resemblance  to  account.  He  had 
acquired  by  study  the  deportment  of  the  exiled  emperor,  his 
way  of  wearing  his  hat,  and  of  taking  a pinch  of  snuff 
with  the  greatest  possible  exactitude.  When  on  his  artistic 
tours  he  arrived  in  a town  where  he  was  unknown,  he  imme- 
diately presented  himself  with  these  acquired  arts  on  the  pub- 
lic promenade  or  in  the  theatre,  in  order  to  attract  the  no- 
tice of  the  public  and  to  be  talked  about;  he  even  endeavoured 
to  spread  the  report  that  he  was  persecuted  by  the  present 
sovereign  and  driven  from  France  on  account  of  his  resem- 
blance to  Napoleon , because  it  brought  back  the  recollection 
of  the  beloved  exile  to  the  mind  of  the  people.  In  Lille,  at 
least,  as  I there  afterwards  learned,  he  had  announced  his 
concert  in  the  following  manner:  “Une  malheureuse  ressem- 
blance  me  force  de  m’expatrier;  je  donnerai  done,  avant  de 
quitter  ma  belle  patrie,  un  concert  d’adieux,”  etc.  That  an- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


69 


nouncement  had  contained  also  some  similar  charlatanerie,  as 
follows:  “Je  jouerai  ce  fameux  concerto  de  Viotti  en  mi-mi- 
neur,  dont  1’ execution  a Paris  m’a  gagno  le  surnom:  V Alex- 
andre des  violons.” 

I was  just  on  the  point  of  calling  upon  Monsieur  Boucher , 
when  he  anticipated  me  by  paying  me  a visit.  He  offered  in  a 
most  friendly  manner  to  assist  me  in  the  arrangements  for  my 
concert,  and  shewed  himself  in  every  respect,  deduction  made 
of  his  self-glorification , a very  amiable  man.  He  introduced 
us  to  several  families  who  were  lovers  of  music,  who  then  by 
inviting  us  to  their  musical  parties,  procured  for  us  the  oppor- 
tunity of  hearing  the  jBcwcAer- couple.  Both  shewed  in  their 
joint  performances  great  skill;  but  all  the  compositions  they 
played  were  poor  and  barren,  and  of  those  of  Monsieur  Bou- 
cher himself  I no  longer  recollect  anything.  At  first  Mon- 
sieur Boucher  played  a quartet  of  Uaydn,  but  introduced  so 
many  irrevalent  and  tasteless  ornaments,  that  it  was  impos- 
sible for  me  to  feel  any  pleasure  in  it.  The  manner  in  which 
Boucher  allowed  himself  to  be  waited  upon  by  his  wife  on 
these  occasions  was  remarkable.  When  he  had  taken  his 
seat  at  the  quartet  desk,  she  would  ask  him  for  the  key  of 
the  violin-case,  open  it,  bring  him  his  violin,  then  the  bow, 
which  she  had  previously  resined;  she  then  laid  the  music 
before  him  and  lastly  seated  herself  near  him,  to  turn  over 
the  pages.  When  we  were  then  invited  to  play,  the  whole  of 
this  process  was  inverted;  for  I not  only  fetched  my  own  in- 
strument, but  took  my  wife’s  harp  out  of  the  case  also,  led 
her  to  the  seat  where  she  was  to  play  and  then  tuned  up, 
all  of  which  in  the  previous  performance  had  been  the  busi- 
ness of  Madame  Boucher.  But  I took  upon  me  the  tuning  of 
the  harp  upon  every  appearance  in  public,  not  only  to  save 
my  wife  the  trouble,  but  also  to  bring  the  instrument  to  a 
perfectly  pure  and  tempered  pitch,  which,  as  is  well  known,  is 
not  so  easy  a matter.  We  played  one  of  our  brillant  duets, 
and  met  with  great  applause.  Boucher  in  particular  seemed 
charmed  with  my  play,  and  he  may  perhaps  have  meant  it 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


70 


with  some  sincerity;  for  in  a letter  of  recommendation  which 
he  gave  me  to  Baron  d'Assignies  in  Lille,  and  which  the  latter 
shewed  to  me  as  a curiosity,  after  describing  the  characteris- 
tics of  my  play;  he  said:  “Enfin,  si  je  suis,  comme  on  le  pre- 
tend,  le  Napoleon  des  violons,  Mr.  Spohr  est  bien  le  Moreau!” 

My  concert  took  place  in  the  new  large  theatre  and  met 
with  marked  approbation ; but  the  receipts,  after  deduction  of 
the  very  considerable  expenses,  were  but  small,  for  our  fame 
had  not  yet  reached  Brussels.  It  is  true  we  were  invited  by 
lovers  of  music  and  the  public  journals  to  give  a second  con- 
cert; but  as  a favourable  day  did  not  immediately  offer,  and 
our  stay  at  the  chief  hotel  where  we  had  stopped  was  very 
expensive,  we  preferred  setting  out  immediately  on  our  jour- 
ney to  Lille. 

Arrived  there,  my  first  visit  was  to  Monsieur  Vogel , who  had 
been  mentioned  to  me  as  the  best  violinist  in  the  town  and  as 
director  of  the  dilettanti- concerts.  I did  not  find  him  at  home, 
but  Madame  Vogel , who  received  me  in  a very  cordial  manner. 
When  I told  her  my  name,  her  face  became  animated,  and 
she  anxiously  inquired  whether  I was  the  composer  of  the 
nonette,  the  theme  of  which  she  sang  to  me.  As  I smiling 
replied  yes,  with  an  outburst  of  French  vivacity  she  threw 
her  arms  round  my  neck,  and  exclaimed:  uOh  how  delighted 
my  husband  well  be,  car  il  est  foil  de  votre  Nonet  to  /”  I had 
scarcely  returned  to  the  inn,  when  Monsieur  Vogel  appeared 
with  a countenance  lit  up  with  pleasure,  and  welcomed  me 
with  the  warmth  of  an  old  friend.  In  the  house  of  this  amiable 
couple  we  passed  some  very  happy  hours,  and  gave  a con- 
cert in  the  saloon  of  the  dilettanti  society,  the  arrangements 
for  which  were  made  by  Monsieur  Vogel , the  whole  of  the 
members  of  the  society  being  desirous  to  hear  the  composer 
of  the  so  frequently  performed  nonette  play  in  person.  The 
joint  play  of  my  wife  and  self  was  especially  received  with 
such  enthusiastic  acclamation,  that  the  day  was  immediately 
fixed  for  a second  concert.  Some  lovers  of  music  from  the 
neighbouring  town  of  Douay,  who  had  come  over  to  the  con- 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


71 


cert,  invited  us  in  the  name  of  the  musical  society  of  that 
place  to  give  a concert  in  Douay  also,  and  insured  to  us  the 
sale  of  400  tickets  at  five  francs  each.  I had  therefore  the 
finest  prospect  of  carrying  from  Lille  plenty  of  money,  when 
an  unexpected  occurrence  quashed  all  my  hopes.  The  carriage 
was  already  packed  and  we  were  on  the  point  of  starting  for 
Douay,  when  the  report  was  spread  in  the  town  that  the  te- 
legraph had  just  announced  from  Paris  the  assassination  of  the 
Duke  de  Berri.  It  was  not  long  before  placards  were  posted 
at  the  corners  of  the;  streets  by  order  of  the  mayoralty,  an- 
nouncing officially  this  mournful  intelligence  to  the  inhabitants 
of  Lille.  As  all  concert-giving  was  now  necessarily  suspended 
throughout  France,  but  the  period  of  my  engagement  in  Lon- 
don not  yet  arrived,  I was  easily  induced  by  Messrs.  Vogel , 
d'Assignies , and  other  lovers  of  music,  to  remain  yet  longer 
in  Lille.  Private  musical  parties  now  took  place  almost  daily, 
and  I had  thus  an  opportunity  of  performing  all  my  quar- 
tets. quintets,  and  compositions  for  the  harp  to  this  circle 
of  enthusiastic  lovers  of  music.  I found  on  these  occasions 
a very  sympathetic  and  graceful  auditory,  and  therefore  still 
recall  with  infinite  pleasure  the  remembrance  of  those  mu- 
sical soirees.  At  these  many  other  interesting  things  were 
related  to  me  concerning  Boucher . Among  others,  upon  one 
occasion,  in  the  midst  of  bis  play,  when  according  to  his  idea 
something  had  gone  wrong,  he  suddenly  ceased  playing,  and 
without  paying  any  regard  to  those  who  accompanied  him, 
he  again  repeated  the  unlucky  passage,  addressing  himself  aloud 
with  the  words : kCela  n’a  pas  reussi ; allons,  Boucher , encore 
une  fois!”  The  termination  of  his  second  and  last  concert 
was  also  of  a highly  comic  character.  As  his  concluding  sub- 
ject he  played  a rondo  of  his  own  composition  which  had  at 
the  end  an  impromptu  cadence.  At  the  rehearsal  he  had  begged 
the  gentlemen  dilettanti  to  fall  in  right  vigorously  with  their 
final  tutti  immediately  after  the  shake  of  his  cadence,  and 
added  that  he  would  give  them  the  signal  by  stamping  with 
his  foot.  In  the  evening,  when  this  concluding  piece  began, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


72 


it  was  already  very  late,  and  the  dilettanti  were  growing 
impatient  to  get  home  to  supper.  But  when  the  cadence  in 
which  Boucher  as  usual  exhibited  all  his  artistic  tours  de 
force  seemed  never  likely  to  end,  some  of  the  gentlemen  put 
their  instruments  into  their  cases  and  slipped  out  This  was 
so  infectious,  that  in  a few  minutes  the  whole  orchestra  had 
disappeared.  Boucher , who  in  the  enthusiasm  of  his  play 
had  observed  nothing  of  this,  lifted  his  foot  already  at  the 
commencement  of  his  concluding  shake,  in  order  to  draw 
the  attention  of  the  orchestra  beforehand  to  the  agreed  sig- 
nal. When  he  had  now  concluded  the  shake  he  was  fully 
satisfied  of  what  would  follow,  namely  the  most  vigorous  en- 
try of  the  orchestra  and  the  burst  of  applause  it  was  to  bring 
down  from  the  enraptured  audience.  His  astonishment  may 
therefore  be  imagined  when  all  that  fell  upon  his  ear  was 
the  loud  stamp  of  his  own  foot.  Horrified  he  stared  aghast 
around  him,  and  beheld  all  the  music  desks  abandoned.  But 
the  public,  who  had  already  prepared  themselves  to  see  this 
moment  arrive,  burst  out  into  an  uproarious  laughter,  in  which 
Boucher,  with  the  best  stomach  he  could,  was  obliged  to  join. 

The  time  for  our  departure  for  London  had  now  arrived. 
As  I was  desirous  of  purchasing  in  London  a new  Erard  harp 
with  the  improved  double  mouvement  for  my  wife,  we  left  the 
old  instrument  in  the  care  of  Monsieur  Vogel . The  family 
were  very  pleased  at  this,  as  they  now  reckoned  with  certainty 
upon  seeing  us  again  on  our  return  journey. 

Arrived  in  Calais,  I immediately  went  to  the  packet-boat 
office  to  take  our  berth  for  the  passage.  Thence  I took  a 
walk  to  the  port,  to  look  at  the  vessel  in  which  we  were  to 
sail  in  the  afternoon.  As  I now,  however,  remarked  that  the 
sea,  even  in  the  inside  of  the  harbour,  was  very  rough,  and 
ran  so  high  outside  that  the  waves  broke  high  over  the  pier 
head,  I lost  all  inclination  to  cross  with  the  sea  so  stormy,  and 
hastened  back  to  the  office,  to  have  the  berths  taken  trans- 
ferred for  the  following  day.  In  the  afternoon  while  taking  a 
walk  in  the  town  I took  good  care  not  to  take  my  wife  near 


Digitized  by 


Google 


73 


the  sea,  so  that,  dreading  the  passage  as  she  already  did,  she 
might  not  observe  how  rough  it  was.  The  thoughts  of  being 
obliged  to  cross  at  so  stormy  a season  of  the  year  with  my 
delicate  and  nervous  wife  disturbed  my  rest  throughout  the 
night;  as  soon  as  day  broke  I hastened  therefore  again  down 
to  the  harbour  to  see  whether  the  storm  had  not  abated.  It 
appeared  to  me  to  have  done  so,  and  I . therefore  fetched  Do - 
rette , brought  her  on  board,  and  advised  her  to  lie  down  in 
the  cabin.  A good-natured  German  who  served  as  seaman 
on  board  this  English  packet-boat,  promised  me  to  take  every 
care  of  her  and  bring  her  all  she  might  require.  This  enabled 
me  to  go  upon  deck,  where  in  the  open  air  I hoped  to  be 
somewhat  enabled  to  resist  sea-sickness.  Meanwhile  the  pre- 
parations were  made  for  departure,  and  the  vessel  was  towed 
out  with  long  ropes  close  along  the  left-hand  side  jetty  of 
the  harbour  by  from  sixty  to  eighty  men.  Scarcely,  however, 
had  she  reached  this,  when  a gigantic  wave  seized  her  and  in 
a moment  hurled  her  to  the  opposite  side  of  the  harbour,  so 
that  she  was  almost  thrown  against  the  extreme  point  of  the 
right  hand-pier.  Immediately  upon  this  the  waves  broke  over 
the  deck,  and  the  hatches  and  cabin  doors  were  obliged  to 
be  closed.  Of  all  the  passengers  I was  the  only  one  who  re- 
mained on  deck,  and  had  seated  myself  on  a bench  near  the 
mast,  round  the  foot  of  which  was  piled  a high  coil  of  cable. 
Here  I hoped  to  be  protected  from  the  water  that  poured  in 
torrents  over  the  deck ; but  the  waves  soon  broke  in  over  the 
bows  to  such  a height,  that  to  prevent  being  completely  drenched 
by  them  I was  compelled  to  stand  up  upon  the  bench.  I had 
not  done  this  many  times,  before  I found  my  strength  fail  me 
to  repeat  it ; and  in  a short  time  therefore  in  spite  of  my  thick 
cloak  I found  myself  wet  through  to  the  skin,  which  made  my 
already  wretched  condition  but  more  distressing.  In  addition 
to  this  I was  then  seized  with  such  violent  cramp  in  the  sto- 
mach from  the  straining  which  follows  when  the  stomach  has 
nothing  more  to  yield,  that  I thought  I should  expire  under 
it.  Fortunately,  however,  favoured  by  the  storm,  the  passage 


Digitized  by 


Google 


74 


was  an  unusually  quick  one.  Nevertheless,  the  three  hours  of 
its  duration  seemed  to  me  an  eternity;  — at  length  we  ar- 
rived at  Dover,  but  another  misfortune  awaited  us  here ; for  on 
account  of  the  tide  being  at  ebb,  we  could  not  enter  the  har- 
bour, and  were  constrained  to  disembark  the  passengers  in 
in  open  boats  in  the  offing.  For  this  purpose  as  soon  as  we 
had  cast  anchor,  the  boats  were  lowered,  and  we  were  called 
to  get  into  them  to  be  put  on  shore  in  the  harbour.  1 now 
saw  my  suffering  fellow -passengers  come  from  below,  pale  and 
trembling  like  ghosts  from  the  grave,  and  it  was  very  evident 
that  they  had  not  fared  better  in  the  cabin  than  I upon  deck. 
At  length,  supported  by  the  kind  sailor,  my  poor  wife  appeared 
also,  in  a most  suffering  condition.  I was  just  about  to  hasten 
to  her,  when  a young  and  beautiful  girl,  whom  I had  already 
remarked,  it  is  true,  when  we  came  on  board,  but  who  then 
did  not  think  me  worthy  of  a look,  suddenly  threw  her  arms 
round  my  neck,  and  without  uttering  a word,  clung  close  to 
me.  1 readily  guessed  the  motive  of  this  extraordinary  con- 
duct. The  poor,  terrified  creature  had  been  a joint  spectator 
of  the  manner  in  which  the  first  passengers  had  been  put  on 
board  the  boat,  and  how  when  it  had  been  lifted  by  the  still 
surging  waves  as  high  as  the  deck  of  the  vessel,  it  then  sank 
as  it  were  into  an  abyss,  and  was  again  lifted  up,  which  was 
the  moment  seized  by  the  sailors  to  thrust  another  passenger 
or  pitch  another  object  of  luggage  into  it.  This  rough  method 
of  proceeding  had  so  terrified  her,  that  she  left  the  arm  of 
the  female  who  accompanied  her,  and  clung  to  me,  whom  she 
may  have  considered  the  strongest  of  the  passengers.  There 
was  no  time  for  explanation ; 1 bore  her  therefore  in  my  arms 
into  the  boat,  and  then  hastened  back  to  my  wife,  to  put  her 
also  into  it.  Scarcely  had  I effected  this  without  accident, 
when  the  still  terrified  fair  one  clung  close  to  me  anew,  and 
indeed  so  as  to  excite  Dorette's  extreme  surprise.  But  the 
danger  of  the  passage  was  too  absorbing  to  permit  of  any  re- 
mark on  the  subject,  and  upon  landing  the  young  girl  had 
scarcely  felt  the  firm  ground  under  her  feet  than  she  left  hold 


Digitized  by  foozle 


75 


of  me  without  a word  of  thanks,  and  taking  the  arm  of  her 
companion  walked  away.  That  she  was  some  young  lady  of 
rank  accompanied  by  her  governess,  may  be  readily  imagined 
from  this  truly  English  behaviour. 

Arrived  at  the  inn,  I exchanged  my  thoroughly  wet  clothes 
for  dry  ones,  and  having  satisfied  our  re-awakened  appetite  at 
the  table  d'hote,  and  gained  strength  for  the  further  journey,  we 
immediately  took  places  in  the  coach,  which  was  to  leave  in  the 
afternoon  for  London.  The  greater  part  of  this  journey  was 
made  at  night,  and  when  on  the  following  morning  we  were  set 
down  in  the  yard  of  the  coach-office  with  our  luggage,  I found 
myself  in  very  great  difficulty.  In  spite  of  every  endeavour,  I 
could  not  succeed  in  finding  any  one  either  there  or  in  the  office 
to  whom  I could  explain  myself,  for  I knew  not  a word  of  Eng- 
lish, and  none  of  all  whom  I addressed,  understood  either  Ger- 
man or  French.  Nothing  therefore  remained  for  me  but  to  hunt 
up  some  interpreter  in  the  public  street  while  my  wife  watched 
the  luggage.  But  it  was  yet  early  in  the  morning,  and  I saw 
therefore  none  but  people  of  the  lower  class,  irom  whom  I could 
hope  nothing.  At  length  a better  dressed  man  approached, 
whom  I first  addressed  in  German,  then,  as  he  shook  his  head, 
expressed  to  him  my  wants  in  French;  but  the  man  shrugged 
his  shoulders  and  went  on  his  way.  A second  person,  however, 
who  had  witnessed  this  scene,  approached  me,  and  asked  me  in 
good  French  what  it  was  I wanted?  He  wras  one  who  hired 
himself  out  as  day-interpreter,  and  out-door  servant  at  hotels, 
and  at  my  request  immediately  fetched  a hackney-coach  for 
me,  to  drive  to  Mr.  Tties,  whose  address  I fortunately  remem- 
bered. We  were  now  soon  taken  to  the  lodgings  that  had 
been  engaged  for  us.  where  w^e  could  at  length  repose  from 
the  fatigues  of  our  voyage  and  night  journey. 

The  next  morning,  on  which  a meeting  of  the  directors 
of  the  Philharmonic  society  was  to  assemble,  I was  to  be  in- 
troduced to  them  by  Mr.  Hies.  I therefore  made  a careful 
toilette,  and  expressly  for  the  occasion  put  on  a bright  red 
Turkish  shawl-pattern  waistcoast  forming  part  of  my  ward-robe, 


Digitized  by  Google 


76 


and  which  was  considered  on  the  Continent  as  a most  elegant 
article  and  of  the  newest  fashion.  Scarcely  had  I appeared 
in  it  in  the  street  than  I attracted  the  general  attention  of 
all  who  passed.  The  grown-up  people  contented  themselves 
with  gazing  at  me  with  looks  of  surprise,  and  then  passed  on 
their  way;  but  the  young  urchins  of  the  street,  were  loud  in 
their  remarks,  which  unfortunately  I did  not  understand,  and 
therefore  could  not  imagine  what  it  was  in  me  that  so  much 
displeased  them.  By  degrees,  however,  they  formed  a regular 
tail  behind  me,  which  grew  constantly  louder  in  speech  and  more 
and  more  unruly.  A passer-by  addressed  me  and  probably  gave 
me  some  explanation  of  its  meaning;  but  as  it  was  in  English, 
I could  derive  no  benefit  from  it.  Fortunately  Mr.  Riesy  house 
was  not  very  distant,  and  I reached  it  shortly  after.  His  wife, 
a young  amiable  English  woman,  and  who  spoke  French  flu- 
ently, now  soon  solved  for  me  the  problem  of  my  adventure. 
The  death  of  George  III.  had  but  recently  taken  place  and  a 
general  mourning  had  been  officially  ordered,  and  according 
to  English  custom  no  person  durst  appear  in  public  otherwise 
than  in  a black  suit.  In  all  other  respects  it  is  true  my  dress 
was  black,  and  therefore  in  accordance  with  the  requisition, 
but  the  unfortunate  red  waistcoat  contrasted  with  it  but  the 
more  prominently.  Mrs.  Hies  observed  to  me  that  I had  doubt- 
less to  thank  my  imposing  height  and  my  earnest  expression 
of  countenance  for  having  escaped  from  the  rude  licence  of 
the  boys  in  the  street,  and  from  their  resort  to  its  more  open 
exhibition  of  pelting  me  with  mud.  In  order  to  avoid  all 
further  offence,  Hies  then  first  drove  with  me  to  my  lodgings, 
in  order  to  exchange  my  red  waistcoat  for  a black  one. 

After  I had  been  welcomed  in  a friendly  manner  by  the 
directors  of  the  Philharmonic  Society,  some  of  whom  spoke 
German  and  others  French,  a councilwas  held  respecting  the 
programme  of  the  first  concert.  At  this  I was  required  to 
play  solo  twice  and  to  lead  as  first  violin.  To  this  I replied 
that  I was  quite  ready  to  perform  the  first,  but  must  beg 
that  I might  be  permitted  to  lead  in  one  of  the  subsequent 


Digitized  by 


Google 


77 


concerts,  as  my  solo  play  would  appear  to  less  advantage  if 
both  were  required  of  me  on  one  and  the  same  evening.  Clear 
as  this  was  acknowledged  to  be  by  some  of  the  gentlemen 
who  were  themselves  solo-players,  yet  it  gave  rise  at  first  to 
a long  and  earnest  discussion,  as  it  was  contrary  to  the  cus- 
tom of  the  society,  but  at  length  it  was  complied  with.  Still 
greater  subject  of  offence,  however,  was  my  request  to  be  per- 
mitted on  this  my  first  appearance  to  play  my  own  compo- 
sitions only.  The  Philharmonic  Society,  in  order  to  exclude  from 
their  programmes  all  shallow  and  worthless  virtuosi-concerti, 
had  laid  down  the  law,  that  with  the  exception  of  the  pianoforte 
concerti  of  Mozart  and  Beethoven  no  similar  musical  pieces 
should  be  played,  and  that  solo  players  had  only  to  perform  that 
which  they  should  select.  Nevertheless,  after  Hies  had  con- 
tinued the  discussion  in  English,  and  therefore  unintelligibly  to 
me,  and  represented  to  the  gentlemen  that  my  violin-concerts 
in  Germany  would  therefore  become  excluded  by  their  bann, 
they  at  length  yielded  in  this  also.  I therefore  at  the  first 
Philharmonic  concert,  came  forward  with  my  cantabile  scena, 
and  in  the  second  part  with  a solo  quartet  in  E major,  and 
met  with  great  and  general  applause.  As  a composer  it  af- 
forded me  an  especial  gratification  that  the  whole  of  the  di- 
rectors now  shared  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Ries,  and  as  a violinist 
the  greatest  pleasure,  that  old  Viottiy  who  had  always  been 
my  pattern,  and  was  to  have  been  my  instructor  in  my  youth, 
was  among  the  auditory  and  spoke  to  me  in  great  praise  of 
my  play.  As  I had  thus  so  successfully  passed  through  the 
ordeal  of  my  first  appearance  in  London,  I devoted  the  next 
day  to  the  delivery  of  my  letters  of  recommendation.  Not 
knowing  a word  of  English  this  was  for  me  by  no  means  a 
pleasant  business,  and  brought  me  into  frequent  perplexity. 
Not  having  been  told  that  in  London  people  announced  them- 
selves by  knocking  at  the  street  doors,  and  gentlemen  always 
by  giving  a succession  of  loud  rapid  knocks;  I,  in  German 
fashion,  rang  very  gently  at  the  bell,  which  is  done  in  Lon- 
don only  by  those  who  have  business  with  the  kitchen,  and  I 


Digitized  by  foozle 


78 


could  not  imagine  why  the  servants  who  opened  the  door  al- 
ways looked  at  me  with  an  expression  of  astonishment,  and 
could  not  at  all  imagine  that  I wished  my  name  to  be  an- 
nounced to  their  masters.  As  those  also  for  whom  my  visit 
was  intended  frequently  understood  as  little  as  their  servants 
either  German  or  French,  the  most  perplexing  scenes  were  of 
frequent  occurrence.  I was  however  exceedingly  amused  by 
one  at  Rothschild’s , to  whom  I brought  a letter  of  recommend- 
ation from  his  brother  at  Frankfort,  and  a letter  of  credit 
from  Speyer . After  Rothschild  had  taken  both  letters  from 
me  and  glanced  hastily  over  them,  he  said  to  me  in  a more 
subdued  tone  of  voice:  “I  have  just  read  (pointing  to  the 
“Times”)  that  you  managed  your  business  very  efficiently.  But 
I understand  nothing  of  music;  this  is  my  music  (slapping  his 
purse),  they  understand  that  on  the  exchange!”  Upon  which, 
with  a nod  of  the  head,  he  terminated  the  audience.  — But 
just  as  I had  reached  the  door,  he  called  after  me : “You  can 
come  and  dine  with  me,  too,  out  at  my  country-house!”  A 
few  days  afterwards  also  Madame  Rothschild  invited  me  to 
dinner;  but  I did  not  go,  although  she  repeated  the  invita- 
tion. Nevertheless,  the  letter  of  recommendation  to  Rothschild 
was  not  wholly  useless,  for  he  took  a whole  box  at  my  bene- 
fit concert. 

As  immediately  on  our  arrival  in  London  I was  obliged 
to  prepare  for  my  appearance  in  public;  and  my  wife  was 
engrossed  with  our  domestic  arrangements,  we  had  unfortu- 
nately delayed  writing  to  apprise  my  parents  at  Gandersheim 
of  our  safe  arrival,  by  which  the  old  folks  were  thrown  into  a 
state  of  alarm  from  which  they  did  not  recover  for  a long 
time.  The  vessel  in  which  we  had  designed  to  cross  the  chan- 
nel on  the  day  of  our  arrival  in  Calais,  and  for  which  I had 
at  first  paid  the  passage  money,  and  had  the  tickets  trans- 
ferred for  the  next  day’s  packet,  on  account  of  the  roughness 
of  the  weather,  had  been  driven  completely  down  channel  and 
was  given  up  for  lost,  until  it  at  length  turned  up  again  some- 
where on  the  coast  of  Spain.  A French  newspaper  had  cited 


Digitized  by 


Google 


79 


our  names  among  the  passengers  on  board.  What  therefore 
could  be  natural,  than  that  the  French  papers  should  collect- 
ively announce:  uThe  artist -couple  Spohr  and  wife  have 
perished  on  the  passage  to  England.”  This  was  soon  copied 
into  German  papers,  and  to  wit  into  the  country  paper  taken 
in  by  my  parents.  Unfortunately,  this  first  fell  into  the  hands 
of  my  mother,  who  was  already  in  a state  of  anxiety  from  the 
long  delay  of  letters  from  England.  A shriek  of  anguish  and 
and  an  immediate  fainting  of  it  were  the  result  of  this.  The 
whole  family  was  thrown  into  confusion,  and  when  at  length 
my  mother  recovered  her  senses,  there  began  a general  out- 
burst of  tears  and  mourning.  My  sister  first  recovered  some 
calmness  of  mind,  and  urged  as  subject  of  hope  and  con- 
sideration how  frequently  newspaper  reports  were  wholly  false. 
She  also  entreated  that  no  one  should  speak  on  the  subject 
in  the  presence  of  my  children,  who  were  now  seen  returning 
from  school,  which  request  was  faithfully  promised.  But  my 
mother  could  not  refrain  from  embracing  those  she  believed  to 
be  now  orphans  with  more  than  usual  tenderness.  This  cir- 
cumstance, together  with  the  yet  swollen  eyes  of  the  mourners, 
excited  no  small  astonishment  in  the  children,  and  when  no 
reply  was  made  to  the  inquiries  they  made  respecting  these 
incidents,  and  no  one  would  sit  down  to  supper,  they  also 
began  to  weep,  without  knowing  wherefore. 

At  length  the  arrival  of  the  postman  put  an  end  to 
this  painful  scene.  All  sprang  up  delighted,  with  the  expect- 
ation of  a letter  from  England.  But  the  joy  was  but  of  short 
duration,  for  when  they  recognised  the  “Frankfort”  post-mark 
and  Speyer's  hand  writing  on  the  address,  they  now  indeed  be- 
lieved that  they  were  about  to  read  nothing  else  than  the 
corroboration  of  the  sad  newspaper  report.  No  one,  therefore, 
had  the  courage  to  open  the  letter,  until  at  length  my  sister 
summoned  the  resolution.  Scarcely  had  she  glanced  her  eyes 
over  a few  words  than  she  exclaimed  with  joy:  “They  have 
arrived  safe,”  and  then  handed  the  letter  to  my  father,  who 
read  it  aloud  to  them  with  great  emotion.  Speyer  informed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


80 


them  that  he  had  just  received  the  announcement  from  the 
house  of  Rothschild  in  London,  that  they  had  there  made  me 
a payment  of  money,  and  that  therefore  the  newspaper  report 
of  the  loss  of  Herr  Spohr  and  his  wife  was  unfounded,  which 
he  had  therewith  immediately  communicated  to  allay  all  their 
alarm.  A general  exclamation  of  joy  was  now  uttered  by  all, 
and  the  previously  neglected  evening  meal  was  turned  into 
a very  feast  of  delight.  Immediately  after  supper  my  father 
seated  himself  at  his  writing  table,  to  thank  Mr.  Speyer  for  his 
kind  attention,  and  to  give  the  editor  of  the  country  paper  a 
sound  rating  for  having  thrown  a family  into  such  grief  by  the 
heedless  insertion  of  an  unauthenticated  report  in  his  columns. 

The  following  day  my  letter  arrived  also  from  London, 
and  increased  yet  more  by  its  good  intelligence  the  joy  of  my 
family. 

At  the  house  of  Mr.  Ries  I had  made  the  acquaintance 
of  Mr.  Erard , the  head  of  the  London  firm  Erard  Brothers, 
and  accompanied  by  my  wife  had  already  visited  his  show 
rooms  of  finished  harps.  We  could  not  however  immediately 
make  up  our  minds  in  the  choice  of  one,  as  Dorette  wished 
first  to  try  which  size  would  suit  her  best,  and  in  particular 
whether  she  could  be  able  to  accustom  herself  to  the  new 
mechanism.  Mr.  Erard  removed  all  hesitation  from  her  mind 
in  that  respect,  by  kindly  offering  to  lend  her  a harp  for  trial 
and  choice,  during  our  stay  in  London,  which  if  it  did  not 
suit  her,  she  could  change  for  another  or  wholly  return. 
This  offer  she  thankfully  accepted,  and  began  immediately  to 
practise  on  the  new  instrument;  but  at  first  she  could  not 
well  succeed  upon  it.  The  new  harp,  though  of  the  smallest 
pattern,  was  nevertheless  considerably  larger,  as  well  as  much 
more  strongly  strung,  than  her  own,  and  therefore  required 
a greater  exertion  of  strength,  and  it  was  very  difficult  for 
her  to  acquire  a mastery  of  the  new  mechanism  d double 
mouvement , from  being  accustomed  from  her  childhood  to  the 
single  movement.  She  therefore  soon  felt  convinced  that  it 
would  require  several  months’  practice  on  this  harp  before 


Digitized  by  foozle 


81 


could  play  upon  it  in  public,  and  I accordingly  resolved  to 
allow  her  to  appear  once  only,  at  my  benefit-concert,  in  order 
that  she  might  give  an  additional  attraction  to  it.  Meanwhile 
my  turn  had  come  to  direct  one  of  the  Philharmonic  concerts, 
and  I had  created  no  less  sensation  than  with  my  solo 
play.  It  was  at  that  time  still  the  custom  there  that  when  sym- 
phonies and  overtures  were  performed,  the  pianist  had  the 
score  before  him,  not  exactly  to  conduct  from  it,  but  only  to 
read  after  and  to  play  in  with  the  orchestra  at  pleasure,  which 
when  it  was  heard,  had  a very  bad  effect.  The  real  conductor 
was  the  first  violin,  who  gave  the  tempi , and  now  and  then 
when  the  orchestra  began  to  falter  gave  the  beat  with  the  bow 
of  his  violin.  So  numerous  an  orchestra,  standing  so  far  apart 
from  each  other  as  that  of  the  Philharmonic,  could  not  pos- 
sibly go  exactly  together,  and  in  spite  of  the  excellence  of  the 
individual  members,  the  ensemble  was  much  worse  than  we 
are  accustomed  to  in  Germany.  I had  therefore  resolved  when 
my  turn  came  to  direct,  to  make  an  attempt  to  remedy  this 
defective  system.  Fortunately  at  the  morning  rehearsal  on  the 
day  when  I was  to  conduct  the  concert,  Mr.  Ries  took  the 
place  at  the  Piano,  and  he  readily  assented  to  give  up  the 
score  to  me  and  to  remain  wholly  excluded  from  all  partici- 
pation in  the  performance.  I then  took  my  stand  with  the 
score  at  a separate  music  desk  in  front  of  the  orchestra,  drew 
my  directing  baton  from  my  coat  pocket  and  gave  the  signal 
to  begin.  Quite  alarmed  at  such  a novel  procedure,  some 
of  the  directors  would  have  protested  against  it;  but  when 
I besought  them  to  grant  me  at  least  one  trial,  they  became 
pacified.  The  symphonies  and  overtures  that  were  to  be  re- 
hearsed were  well  known  to  me,  and  in  Germany  I had  already 
directed  at  their  performance.  I therefore  could  not  only 
give  the  tempi  in  a very  decisive  manner,  but  indicated  also  to 
the  wind  instruments  and  horns  all  their  entries,  which  en- 
sured to  them  a confidence  such  as  hitherto  they  had  not 
known  there.  I also  took  the  liberty,  when  the  execution  did 
not  satisfy  me,  to  stop,  and  in  a very  polite  but  earnest 

SPOHR,  Autobiography,  n.  g 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


82 


manner  to  remark  upon  the  manner  of  execution,  which  re- 
marks Mr.  Ries  at  my  request  interpreted  to  the  orchestra.  In- 
cited thereby  to  more  than  usual  attention,  and  conducted 
with  certainty  by  the  visible  manner  of  giving  the  time,  they 
played  with  a spirit  and  a correctness  such  as  till  then  they 
had  never  been  heard  to  play  with.  Surprised  and  inspired 
by  this  result  the  orchestra  immediately  after  the  first  part 
of  the  symphony,  expressed  aloud  its  collective  assent  to  the 
new  mode  of  conducting,  and  thereby  overruled  all  further 
opposition  on  the  part  of  the  directors.  In  the  vocal  pieces 
also,  the  conducting  of  which  I assumed  at  the  request  of 
Mr.  Ries,  particularly  in  the  recitative,  the  leading  with  the 
baton,  after  I had  explained  the  meaning  of  my  movements, 
was  completely  successful,  and  the  singers  repeatedly  expressed 
to  me  their  satisfaction  for  the  precision  with  which  the  orches- 
tra now  followed  them. 

The  result  in  the  evening  was  still  more  brillant  than 
I could  have  hoped  for.  It  is  true,  the  audience  were  at  first 
startled  by  the  novelty,  and  were  seen  whispering  together; 
but  when  the  music  began  and  the  orchestra  executed  the 
well-known  symphony  with  unusual  power  and  precision,  the 
general  approbation  was  shewn  immediately  on  the  conclusion 
of  the  first  part  by  a long- sustained  clapping  of  hands.  The 
triumph  of  the  baton  as  a time-giver  was  decisive,  and  no 
one  was  seen  any  more  seated  at  the  piano  during  the  per- 
formance of  symphonies  and  overtures.  On  this  evening  also 
the  concert  overture  which  I had  composed  before  I left  Frank- 
fort was  given  for  the  first  time.  As  it  pleased  very  much 
the  Philharmonic  society  accepted  it  as  the  composition  which 
according  to  my  contract  I was  to  leave  in  their  hands.  I 
kept  no  copy  of  it  and  soon  forgot  it  entirely,  so  that  a few 
years  afterwards  when  preparing  a thematic  catalogue  of  my 
compositions  I could  not  recal  to  mind  the  beginning  of  it,  for 
which  reason  the  theme  of  it  is  wholly  wanting  in  the  text. 

During  the  delivery  of  my  letters  of  introduction  in  Lon- 
don, as  also  upon  many  other  occasions,  I had  so  much  felt 


Digitized  by  Google 


83 


the  want  of  some  one  to  serve  me  as  interpreter  that  I was 
continually  making  inquiries  for  a person  to  accompany  me  who 
could  speak  German  and  English.  At  length  Mr.  Ries  bethought 
him  of  an  old  servant  of  the  deceased  Salomon * of  the  name 
of  Johanning , who  would  be  competent  to  fill  that  office.  It 
is  true,  that  he  had  retired  from  service,  and  as  heir  to  his 
late  master  had  bought  a small  country-house  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood of  London.  Mr.  Ries  hoped  nevertheless  that  the  yet 
vigorous  old  man  would  consent  to  take  the  situation,  for  which 
purpose  he  sent  for  him  to  town,  and  the  offer  on  my  part 
was  made  to  him.  When  he  learned  that  it  was  to  enter  the 
service  of  a German  and  a musician,  and  furthermore  of  a 
violinist,  as  his  deceased  master  had  been,  he  immediately 
expressed  his  readiness,  and  even  left  it  to  my  option  what  re- 
muneration I should  give  him  at  the  close  of  the  season.  Thence- 
forth he  came  every  morning  into  town,  and  having  first  in- 
terpreted the  wishes  of  my  wife  to  the  landlady  respecting  the 
dinner,  he  then  accompanied  me  on  my  rounds  of  business. 
From  his  long  residence  in  London,  however,  he  had  forgotten 
a great  deal  of  his  German,  and  his  English  doubtless  was  not 
very  classic;  for  in  his  interpreting  frequent  misunderstandings 
would  take  place.  When  I had  thus  presented  the  remain- 
der of  my  letters  of  introduction  with  less  difficulty  than  be- 
fore, I again  found  time  and  leisure  for  new  compositions.  I 
first  wrote  a symphony  (the  second  D flat,  Op.  49)  and  played 
it  for  the  first  time  at  one  of  the  Philharmonic  concerts,  which 
I had  to  conduct,  April  10.  1820.  At  its  rehearsal,  it  met 
with  very  great  approbation  both  from  the  orchestra  and  the 
numerous  persons  who  were  present;  but  in  the  evening  it  was 
received  with  real  enthusiasm.  I had  in  part  to  thank  the  nu- 
merous and  particularly  excellent  stringed  instruments  of  the 


* It  was  this  Salomon , who,  as  concert-giver,  induced  his  friend 
Haydn  to  visit  London  and  compose  symphonies  for  his  concerts;  and 
to  him  therefore  the  musical  world  owes  the  twelve  most  beautiful  sym- 
phonies Haydn  wrote. 

6* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


84 


orchestra  for  this  brillant  success,  and  in  this  composition  I had 
given  them  a special  opportunity  of  exhibiting  their  skill  in  play- 
ing with  purity  and  precision  of  ensemble . In  fact,  as  regards 
the  stringed  instruments,  I have  never  since  heard  that  sym- 
phony given  with  so  much  effect  as  on  that  evening.  The 
next  morning  all  the  London  newspapers  contained  reports 
respecting  the  new  symphony  that  had  been  composed  in  their 
town,  and  vied  with  each  other  in  their  praise  of  it.  Similar 
favourable  notices  of  my  play  upon  every  occasion  of  my 
appearance  soon  spread  my  fame  throughout  the  town,  and 
pupils  readily  presented  themselves  to  receive  instruction  from 
me  on  the  violin,  as  well  as  ladies  who  were  desirous  of  being 
accompanied  on  the  piano.  As  all  expressed  their  willingness 
to  pay  a guinea  for  each  hour’s  instruction,  I readily  accepted 
their  offers,  as  I considered  that  I owed  it  to  my  family  to 
turn  the  good  fortune  I had  met  with  in  London  as  a musi- 
cian to  my  pecuniary  advantage.  In  this  manner,  after  having 
first  devoted  a few  hours  to  composition  at  home  or  to 
music  with  my  wife,  I was  running  or  driving  about  all  day 
in  huge  London,  and  frequently  right  weary  of  it;  for  the  greater 
part  of  my  pupils  had  neither  talent  nor  application,  and  took 
lessons  of  me  merely  to  be  enabled  to  say  that  they  were  pu- 
pils of  Spohr.  I nevertheless  call  to  mind  with  some  pleasure 
several  originals  who  amused  me  with  their  singularities,  and 
therewith  somewhat  relieved  the  bitter  trouble  I had  with 
them.  One  was  an  old  general  on  half-pay,  but  who  always 
made  his  appearance  in  full  uniform,  decorated  with  all  his 
orders,  and  with  the  extreme  of  high  military  bearing.  He,  as 
an  exception,  came  always  to^my  house,  but,  nevertheless,  re- 
quired to  play  for  three  quarters  of  an  hour  only,  as  accord- 
ing to  the  custom  there  deduction  was  made  of  the  quarter 
of  an  hour  for  the  drive.  He  came  every  morning,  Sundays 
excepted,  in  his  old  state  carriage,  precisely  at  12  o’clock,  or- 
dered one  of  his  belaced  and  powdered  footmen  to  bring  up 
his  violin-case,  and  after  a dumb  greeting  sat  himself  down 
immediately  to  his  music  desk.  But  previous  to  that  he  took  out 


Digitized  by  Google 


85 


his  watch  to  see  at  what  o’clock  the  lesson  would  com- 
mence, and  then  set  it  down  close  to  him.  He  would  bring 
easy  duets  with  him,  chiefly  of  Pleyel.  in  which  I played 
second  violin.  Although  there  were  many  things  in  his  play 
that  indicated  the  unpractised  pupil,  I soon  saw  that  it  would 
not  be  wise  to  point  them  out  to  him ; I contented  myself  there- 
fore with  accommodating  my  tones  as  much  as  possible  to 
those  of  the  old  gentleman,  and  so  we  played  one  duet  after 
the  other  in  the  best  concord.  As  soon,  however,  as  we  had 
played  the  three  quarters  of  an  hour,  the  general  would  stop, 
though  in  the  middle  of  the  piece,  take  from  his  waistcoat 
pocket  a one-pound  note  in  which  a shilling  was  wrapped  up, 
and  put  it  upon  the  table.  He  would  then  take  up  his  watch, 
and  take  leave  in  the  same  taciturn  manner  as  he  had  entered. 

The  other  original  was  an  old  lady  whom  I accompanied 
on  the  piano.  She  was  a passionate  admirer  of  Beethoven , 
against  which  I had  nothing  to  say,  but  she  had  the  whim, 
moreover,  never  to  play  any  other  music  than  that  of  her  fa- 
vorite. She  had  all  Beethoven's  pianoforte-compositions,  as  also 
his  orchestral  works  arranged  for  the  piano.  Her  apartment 
was  also  hung  with  every  portrait  of  him  that  she  had  been 
able  to  procure.  As  many  of  these  differed  greatly  in  resem- 
blance to  each  other,  she  urged  me  to  inform  her  which  most 
resembled  him  of  the  whole.  She  possessed  also  some  relics 
of  him  which  had  been  brought  to  her  from  Vienna  by  Eng- 
lish travellers,  among  others  a button  of  his  dressing-gown 
and  a piece  of  music  paper  with  some  note  marks  and  ink- 
blots from  his  hand.  When  I apprized  her  that  I had  lived 
for  some  time  on  terms  of  great  intimacy  with  him,  I rose 
greatly  in  her  estimation,  and  she  had  then  so  much  to  ask 
that  on  some  days  we  never  played  at  all.  She  spoke  French 
with  tolerably  fluency,  and  could  even  bring  out  a few  words 
of  German.  Her  pianoforte  play  was  not  at  all  bad , so  that 
I was  rather  pleased  to  play  the  sonatas  for  piano  and  violin. 
But  when  she  subsequently  produced  the  trios  also,  and  played 
with  me  without  violoncello,  and  then  even  the  piano  concertos, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


86 


in  which,  with  the  exception  of  first  orchestral- violin,  which  I 
played,  all  else  was  wanting,  h became  very  dear  to  me  that  her 
enthusiasm  for  Beethoven  was  nothing  hut  affectation,  and  that  she 
had  not  the  least  perception  of  the  excellence  of  his  compositions. 

I became  acquainted  with  a third  singular  character  in 
the  following  manner.  One  morning  a servant  in  livery  brought 
a letter  to  me.  which  my  old  Johcmning  translated  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  ''Mr.  Spohr  is  requested  to  call  at  the  house 
of  the  undersigned,  at  4 o’clock  precisely.”  As  I did  not  know 
the  name  appended  to  the  note,  nor  could  ascertain  from  the 
servant  the  purpose  for  which  my  attendance  was  requested, 
I replied  thereto  in  an  equally  laconic  manner : fclAt  the  hour 
indicated  I am  engaged  and  cannot  come.”  The  next  morn- 
ing the  servant  reappeared  with  a second  much  more  polite 
note:  “Mr.  Spohr  is  requested  to  honour  the  undersigned 
with  a visit,  and  to  appoint  the  time  himself.”  At  the  same 
time  the  servant  had  been  ordered  to  offer  his  master’s  carriage, 
and  as  I had  been  meanwhile  informed  that  the  writer  was  a 
celebrated  physician,  who  frequently  attended  concerts,  and  in- 
terested himself  especially  in  violin  music,  I no  longer  hesitated 
to  go,  but  indicated  the  appointed  hour  to  the  servant  and 
was  duly  fetched  in  the  doctor’s  carriage.  An  amiable  old  gen- 
tlemen with  snow  white  hair  received  me  at  the  foot  of  the 
stairs,  but  we  now  discovered  to  our  mutual  regret  that 
we  could  not  make  ourselves  intelligible  to  each  other, 
for  he  spoke  neither  German  nor  French.  We  stood 
opposite  to  each  other  in  great  embarassment,  until  he  took 
me  by  the  arm  and  led  me  into  a spacious  room  on  the  walls 
of  which  a number  of  violins  were  hung.  Others  had  been 
taken  from  their  cases  and  placed  upon  tables.  The  doctor 
handed  a bow  to  me  and  pointed  to  the  instruments.  I now 
comprehended  that  I was  to  give  my  opinion  of  the  respective 
merits  of  the  violins,  and  immediately  began  to  try  them  and 
to  arrange  them  in  order  according  to  their  worth:  This  was 
no  easy  work  to  do ; for  there  were  a great  number  of  them, 
and  the  old  gentleman  brought  them  all  in  succession,  with- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


87 


out  omitting  one.  When  at  length,  after  the  lapse  of  about 
an  hour,  I had  found  the  best  six  of  them,  and  still  played 
on  these  alternately  to  discover  the  very  best  of  them,  I ob- 
served that  the  doctor  eyed  one  of  them  with  looks  of  parti- 
cular fondness,  and  his  face  lit  up  with  pleasure  every  time 
I struck  the  strings.  I therefore  readily  gave  the  kind  old 
gentleman  the  satisfaction  of  indicating  that  instrument  as  the 
matador  of  the  whole  collection.  Quite  delighted  with  this  an- 
nouncement, he  now  brought  a viola  d' amour,  and  began 
to  play  a fantasia  on  this  long -unused  instrument.  I lis- 
tened to  him  with  pleasure,  as  I had  not  heard  the  instru- 
ment before  and  the  doctor  played  by  no  means  ill.  Thus 
terminated  the  interview  to  the  satisfaction  of  both,  and  I had 
taken  up  my  hat,  to  take  my  leave  of  him  when  the  old  gentle- 
man, with  a kindly  expression  of  countenance  and  several  low 
bows,  handed  to  me  a five-pound  note.  Astonished  at  this,  I 
looked  at  the  note  and  the  donor,  and  at  first  knew  not  what 
he  meant;  when  it  struck  me  that  he  intended  it  as  a remu- 
neration for  my  testing  his  violins,  and  shaking  my  head  with 
a smile,  I laid  the  note  on  the  table,  pressed  the  doctor’s 
hand  with  warmth,  and  hastened  down  stairs.  He  followed 
me  out  into  the  street,  assisted  me  into  the  carriage  and 
then  spoke  some  words  with  evident  emotion  to  his  coachman. 
This  had  made  so  much  impression  on  the  coachman,  that  he 
immediately  told  it  to  old  Johanning,  who  had  come  with  the 
carriage,  to  open  the  door.  He  had  said  to  him:  “You  are 
driving  there  a German  who  is  a perfect  gentleman;  and  I 
expect  you  will  take  him  home  to  his  house  with  the  greatest 
care.”  — A few  months  afterwards,  when  I gave  my  benefit 
concert,  the  doctor  sent  for  a ticket  and  forwarded  to  me  at 
the  same  time  a ten-pound  note. 

Meanwhile  my  wife  had  by  unflagging  industry  acquired 
great  proficiency  on  the  new  harp,  but  in  doing  so  — on  account 
of  the  greater  stretch  of  arm  it  required  and  the  stronger 
tension  of  the  strings  — she  had  exerted  herself  over  much  and 
now  suffered  greatly  from  the  exhaustion  it  had  induced.  From 


Digitized  by 


Google 


88 


former  experience  I had  learned  that  nothing  so  quickly  im- 
parted fresh  strength  to  her  nerves  as  the  frequent  enjoyment 
of  fresh  air.  I therefore  availed  myself  of  every  moment  of 
sunshine  in  the  first  days  of  spring  to  take  gentle  walks  into 
Regent’s  Park,  which  was  very  near  to  our  dwelling  in  Char- 
lotte Street.  On  Sundays,  when  all  music  ceases  in  London, 
and  when  even  without  fear  of  giving  offence  we  could  not 
play  in  our  own  apartments,  we  used  to  make  more  distant 
excursions  to  Hampstead,  and  to  the  other  parks.  Our  com- 
panion and  guide  was  alternately  the  younger  Hies  and  an  old 
amiable  man  of  the  name  of  Stump/,  an  instrument  maker. 
I soon  had  the  gratification  of  seeing  my  wife  regain  fresh 
strength  and  spirits  from  the  mild  influence  of  the  English 
spring,  but  I adhered  strictly  to  my  previous  resolution  that 
she  should  appear  once  only  at  my  own  concert,  and  declined 
with  firmness  several  offers  that  were  made  to  her.  But  as  for 
myself,  I played  at  all  concerts  where  they  were  willing  to  pay 
the  price  I asked,  and  as  this  according  to  English  notions  was 
not  excessively  high,  I was  in  frequent  requisition,  and  saw  my 
name  announced  on  almost  all  the  concert-programmes  of  the 
season.  But  I never  could  make  up  my  mind  to  play  for  renumer- 
ation at  private  parties,  for  the  manner  in  which  musicians  were 
then  treated  there,  was  to  me  most  unbecoming  and  de- 
grading. They  were  not  admitted  to  join  the  company,  but  were 
shewn  into  an  adjoining  room,  where  they  had  to  wait  until 
the  moment  arrived  when  they  were  summoned  to  the  apart- 
ments where  the  company  was  assembled  before  whom  they 
were  to  play;  their  performance  over,  they  had  to  leave  the 
room  again  immediately.  My  wife  and  I were  ourselves  once 
eyewitnesses  of  this  contemptuous  treatment  of  the  first  and 
most  eminent  artists  in  London.  We  had  received  letters  of 
introduction  to  the  king’s  brothers  the  Dukes  of  Sussex  and 
Clarence,  and  as  the  latter  was  married  to  a German,  a Prin- 
cess of  Meiningen,  I paid  them  a visit  accompanied  by  my 
wife.  The  Ducal  couple  received  us  in  a very  kind  manner 
and  invited  us  to  a musical  party  they  were  to  give  in  a few 


Digitized  by 


Google 


89 


days  and  at  which  we  were  also  asked  to  assist.  I then 
thought  in  what  way  I could  best  extricate  myself  from  this 
disgusting  exclusion  from  the  company,  and  resolved  if  I 
could  not  succeed  to  return  home  immediately.  When  there- 
fore we  entered  the  palace,  and  a lacquey  was  on  the  point 
of  opening  the  door  of  the  room  where  the  other  musicians 
were  assembled,  I told  Johanning  to  deliver  my  violin  case  to 
him,  and  with  my  wife  on  my  arm,  immediately  ascended  the 
staircase  before  the  lacquey  had  time  to  recover  from  his  as- 
tonishment. Arrived  at  the  door  of  the  apartments  where  the 
company  were  assembled,  I announced  my  name  to  the  foot- 
man in  waiting,  and  as  he  hesitated  to  open  the  door  I evinced 
an  intention  of  opening  it  myself.  Upon  this  the  lacquey  in- 
stantly threw  open  the  door  and  called  out  the  names  of  the 
new-comers.  The  Duchess,  alive  to  German  usages,  rose  imme- 
diately from  her  seat,  advanced  a few  steps  to  meet  my  wife, 
and  led  her  into  the  circle  of  ladies.  The  Duke  welcomed 
me  also  with  a few  frendly  words  and  introduced  me  to  the 
gentlemen  around  him.  I now  thought  I had  successfully 
achieved  all;  but  I soon  observed  that  the  servants  notwith- 
standing not  did  consider  me  as  properly  belonging  to 
the  company,  for  they  always  passed  me  by  with  the  tea-tray 
and  other  refreshments,  without  offering  me  any.  At  length  the 
Duke  may  also  have  remarked  this ; for  I saw  him  whisper  a few 
words  in  the  ear  of  the  steward  of  the  household.  After  this 
the  refreshments  were  also  presented  to  me.  When  the  concert 
was  to  commence  the  steward  of  the  household  sent  a ser- 
vant to  summon  the  invited  artists  in  the  order  in  which  their 
names  appeared  on  the  programme.  They  hereupon  eutered 
the  apartment  with  their  sheet  of  music  or  instrument  in  hand, 
saluted  the  company  with  a profound  bow,  and  began  their 
performances.  They  were  the  elite  of  the  most  distinguished 
singers  and  musicians  in  London,  and  the  execution  of  their 
respective  pieces  was  almost  without  exception  charmingly 
beautiful.  This,  however,  did  not  appear  to  be  felt  by  the 
noble  and  fashionable  auditory;  for  they  did  not  cease  their 


Digitized  by 


Google 


90 


conversation  one  moment.  Once  only  when  a very  favorite 
female  singer  entered  the  room  they  became  somewhat  more 
silent,  and  a few  subdued  bravos  were  heard,  for  which  she 
immediately  returned  thanks  with  profound  curtsies.  I was 
exceedingly  annoyed  by  this  derogation  of  art  and  still  more 
so  with  the  artists  who  submitted  to  be  so  treated,  and  I had 
a great  mind  not  to  play  at  all.  When  the  turn  came  to 
me,  therefore,  I purposely  hesitated  so  long  till  the  Duke, 
probably  at  a sign  made  to  him  by  his  wife,  invited  me 
himself  to  play.  I then  requested  one  of  the  servants  to 
bring  up  my  violin  case,  and  I then  began  to  play  the  piece 
I had  proposed  to  myself  without  making  the  customary  bows 
to  the  company.  All  these  circumstances  excited  no  doubt  the 
attention  of  the  company,  for  during  the  whole  time  of  my 
performance  the  greatest  stillness  pervaded  the  apartment. 
When  I had  concluded  the  ducal  pair  and  their  guests 
applauded.  Now  also  I first  expressed  my  thanks  by  making 
a bow.  Shortly  afterwards  the  concert  terminated,  and 
the  musicians  retired.  If  our  having  constituted  ourselves 
part  of  the  company  had  furnished  matter  of  surprise,  this 
was  still  more  increased  when  they  saw  that  we  stopped  there 
also  to  supper,  and  during  the  supper  were  treated  with  great 
attention  by  the  ducal  hosts.  The  circumstance  to  which  we 
doubtless  owed  this  distinction  — one  so  unheard-of  and  repug- 
nant to  all  English  notions  of  that  day  — was  the  fact  that  the 
Duchess  had  known  us  while  yet  living  in  her  paternal  house,  and 
had  there  witnessed  the  friendly  reception  which,  at  the  time 
when  we  lived  at  Gotha,  we  had  frequently  met  with  at  the  court 
of  Meiningen.  The  Duke  of  Sussex,  to  whom  I had  brought  a 
letter  of  recommendation  from  the  Duke  of  Cambridge,  then 
regent  of  Hanover,  received  me  also  with  great  distinction 
and  conversed  with  me  a good  deal.  During  a conversation 
we  had  upon  the  subject  of  English  national  songs,  the  Duke 
even  sent  for  his  guitar  and  sang  to  me  some  English 
and  Irish  national  songs,  which  afterwards  suggested  to  me 
the  idea  of  working  up  some  of  the  most  popular  of  these 


Digitized  by  Google 


91 


as  a pot-pourri  for  my  instrument,  and  of  introducing  the  same  at 
my  concert.*  When  the  company  broke  up,  which  was  not  till 
long  after  midnight,  we  returned  home  greatly  pleased  with 
the  result  of  our  daring  and  with  the  victory  we  had  gained 
over  the  prejudices  of  London  society. 

Among  those  who  solicited  me  to  play  solo  at  their  concerts 
was  Sir  George  Smart , one  of  the  directors  of  the  Philhar- 
monic Society.  During  the  season  he  gave  a succession  of  sub- 
scription concerts  which  he  called  “sacred  concerts,”  in  which 
nevertheless  a great  deal  of  the  music  was  “worldly”  also. 
I played  at  two  of  them,  in  return  for  which  Sir  George  un- 
dertook the  arrangements  for  my  benefit-concert  — a by  no 
means  light  task  even  for  a native  well  versed  in  the  matter, 
and  which  if  I had  undertaken  in  person  would  perhaps  have 
occupied  six  weeks  of  my  time,  which  I could  employ  in  a 
much  more  advantageous  manner.  My  concert  took  place  on 
the  18th.  June,  and  was  one  of  the  most  brillant  and  well 
attended  of  the  whole  season.  Almost  every  person  to  whom 
we  had  brought  letters  of  recommendation  — and  among  them 
also  the  Dukes  of  Sussex  and  Clarence  — had  taken  either  boxes 
or  reserved  seats,  and  several  of  those  wealthy  personages 
had  forwarded  considerable  sums  for  them. 

A great  number  of  the  subscribers  to  the  Philharmonic 
Society  also  retained  their  seats,  and  as  the  lowest  price  for 
a ticket  was  half  a guinea,  and  the  room  held  nearly  a thou- 
sand people,  the  receipts  were  very  considerable.  I derived  a 
great  additional  advantage  from  the  circumstance,  that  the 
expenses  which  otherwise  in  London  are  enormously  high,  were 
greatly  reduced  on  this  occasion  by  the  refusal  of  several  of 
the  members  of  the  orchestra  to  receive  any  gratuity,  from  a 
friendly  feeling  towards  me,  and  from  the  agreement  previously 
entered  into  by  me  with  the  Philharmonic  Society,  that  the  use 
of  the  rooms  should  cost  me  nothing.  On  the  other  hand, 

• This  is  the  Op.  59,  the  second  of  my  works  written  in  London. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


92 


however,  I had  to  pay  all  the  singers,  and  I yet  well  re- 
member that  I was  obliged  to  pay  Mrs.  Salmon , the  then 
most  popular  female  vocalist  in  London,  and  without  whose 
presence  my  concert  would  have  been  considered  not  sufficiently 
attractive,  the  sum  of  thirty  pounds  sterling  for  a single 
song;  and  she  made  it  a further  condition  of  agreement,  that 
she  should  not  sing  until  towards  the  end  of  the  concert,  as 
she  had  first  to  sing  at  a concert  in  the  city,  six  miles  of. 
I must  here  mention  also  a singular  custom  which  prevailed  at 
all  concerts  in  London  at  that  time,  which  now,  however,  like  many 
other  strange  practices  of  that  period,  has  been  discontinued. 
Namely,  it  was  required  that  the  party  giving  the  concert 
should  provide  the  auditory  with  refreshments  during  the  pause 
between  the  first  and  second  parts  of  the  concert.  These  were 
accordingly  supplied  at  a buffet  in  an  adjoining  room,  and 
one  was  obliged  to  agree  beforehand  with  the  confectioner  upon 
the  sum  for  their  purveyance,  which  at  my  concert  was  under- 
taken for  ten  pounds  sterling.  If  the  company  consisted  for  the 
most  part  of  persons  of  rank  and  fashion,  with  whom  it  was 
not  usual  to  take  any  refreshments,  the  confectioner  used  to  make 
a good  thing  of  it,  but  if  it  was  a very  numerous  and  mixed 
company,  and  the  heat  very  great,  he  might  frequently  be  a 
loser.  But  he  never  did  a better  stroke  of  business  than  at 
my  concert. 

This  took  place  on  the  very  day  that  Queen  Charlotte  of 
England  made  her  entry  into  London  on  her  return  from  Italy, 
to  make  her  defence  before  Parliament  against  the  charge  of 
infidelity  brought  against  her  by  her  husband.  All  London  was 
divided  into  two  parties,  the  larger  of  which,  composed  of  the 
middle  and  lower  classes,  was  on  the  side  of  the  Queen. 
The  town  was  in  the  greatest  commotion,  and  it  was  a very 
fortunate  thing  for  me  that  I had  already  disposed  of  the  whole 
of  the  tickets  for  my  concert,  as  otherwise  by  this  unfavour- 
able circumstance  I might  have  incurred  a very  great  loss. 
The  bills  announcing  my  concert,  posted  at  the  corners  of  the 


Digitized  by  foozle 


streets,  were  quickly  pasted  oyer  and  covered  with  large  pla- 
cards in  which  in  the  name  of  the  people  a general  illumi- 
nation of  the  town  was  called  for  to  celebrate  the  day;  and 
Johanning  brought  me  word  that  the  populace  threatened  to 
smash  the  windows  in  every  house,  where  this  call  was  not 
complied  with.  As  at  that  time  the  police  force  as  well  as 
the  few  military  were  not  sufficiently  numerous  to  protect  the 
royal  palaces  from  the  threatened  excesses  of  the  populace,  the 
partisans  of  the  king,  who  were  wholly  unable  to  repress  the 
tumult,  were  compelled  to  abide  the  worst,  and  contented 
themselves  with  making  the  best  use  of  the  short  notice  given 
by  having  their  windows  nailed  up  with  boards,  in  order  to 
save  their  costly  mirrors  and  furniture.  In  this  manner  dur- 
ing the  whole  of  the  day  the  sound  of  the  carpenter’s 
hammer  was  everywhere  heard,  particularly  in  Portland  Place, 
close  adjoining  where  many  of  the  nobility  resided,  and  these 
preparations  of  defence  were  subjects  of  great  derision  and 
amusement  to  the  young  vagabonds  of  the  street.  While  we  were 
rehearsing  at  home  the  pieces  to  be  performed  in  the  even- 
ing, the  people  poured  in  crowds  through  the  streets  to  meet 
the  Queen  upon  her  entry.  As  this  took  place  in  the  direc- 
tion of  the  city,  it  became  perfectly  quiet  towards  evening  at 
the  West-end.  We  found  therefore,  as  we  drove  at  half-past 
eight  o’clock  to  the  concert-rooms,  the  streets  almost  less 
thronged  than  usual,  and  met  with  no  obstacle  on  our  way. 
But  we  remarked  everywhere  active  preparations  for  the  illu- 
mination, in  order  that  the  sovereign  will  of  the  people  might 
be  immediately  complied  with.  My  wife,  who  was  somewhat 
nervous  respecting  her  first  public  appearance  with  the  new 
harp,  was  in  great  trepidation  as  to  what  might  occur  from 
this  excitement  of  the  populace,  and  I was  greatly  afraid  that 
the  agitation  in  which  I saw  her  would  be  prejudicial  both  to 
her  play  and  to  her  health.  I therefore  endeavoured  to  soothe 
her  by  argument  and  persuasion,  in  which  I happily  succeeded. 
The  concert-room  filled  by  degrees  with  a numerous  auditory 
and  the  concert  began.  I am  able  to  give  here  the  entire 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


94 


programme,  as  Sir  G . Smart  upon  my  last  visit  to  London 
(in  the  year  1852)  made  me  a present  of  a copy  of  that  which 
was  handed  at  the  time  to  the  audience  upon  their  entry  into 
the  rooms.  It  runs  as  follows: 

NEW  ARGYLL  ROOMS. 

3VtR.  SPOHR’S  CONCERT. 

Thursday,  June  18th.  1820. 

PARTI. 

Grand  Sinfonia  (M.  S.) Spohr. 

Air,  Mr.  T.  Welch,  “Revenge,  revenge,  Timo- 

theus  cries” Ha  end  el. 

Grand  Duetto  (M.  S.),  Harp  and  Violin,  Mad. 

Spohr  and  Mr.  Spohr  ...  Spohr. 

Aria,MissGoodall,  “Unavoceal  cor  miparla.” 

Clarinet  obligato,  Mr.  Willman.  . Paer. 

Sestetto  for  Pianoforte,  two  Violins,  Viola,  Vio- 
lincello  and  Contrabasso,  Messrs.: 

Ries,  Watts,  Wagstaff,  R.  Ash- 
ley, Lindley  and  Dragonetti.  . Ries. 

Irish  Melodies  (M.  S.),  with  Variations  for  the 
Violin,  Mr.  Spohr  (composed  expressly 
for  this  occasion) Spohr. 

P A R T II. 

Nonotto  for  Violin,  Viola,  Violincello,  Contra- 
basso, Flute,  Oboe,  Clarinet,  Horn  and 
Bassoon,  Messrs.  Spohr,  Lindley, 

Dragonetti,  Ireland,  Griesbach, 

Willman,  Arnull  and  Holmes  . Spohr. 

Scena,  Mrs.  Salmon  “Fellon,  la  pena  avrai”  Rossini. 
Rondo  for  the  Violin,  Mr.  Spohr  . . . . Spohr. 

Aria,  Mr.  Vaughan  “Rendi’l  sereno”  . . . Haendel. 

Overture Spohr. 

* * * 

Leader  of  the  Band  . . Mr.  Spohr. 

At  the  Pianoforte  ...  Sir  George  Smart. 

The  new  symphony,  though  already  known  to  the  orchestra, 
was  again  carefully  rehearsed  through  with  them,  and  was  ex- 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


95 


ecuted  in  a masterly  manner,  and  it  met  with  a more  lively  ap- 
plause, if  possible,  than  on  its  first  performance.  While  the  air 
that  followed  was  being  sung  I tuned  my  wife’s  harp  for  her 
in  the  adjoining  room  and  spoke  some  words  of  encouragement 
to  her.  I then  led  her  into  the  concert-room  and  we  took 
our  places  to  begin  the  duet.  Silent  expectation  pervaded  the 
whole  auditory,  and  our  first  tones  were  eagerly  awaited,  when 
suddenly  a fearful  noise  was  heard  in  the  street,  which  was 
immediately  followed  by  a volley  of  paving  stones  against  the 
unilluminated  windows  of  the  adjoining  room.  Terrified  at 
the  noise  of  the  breaking  glass  of  the  windows  and  chande- 
liers, the  ladies  sprang  up  from  their  seats,  and  a scene  of 
indescribable  confusion  and  alarm  ensued.  In  order  to  pre- 
vent a second,  volly  of  missiles,  the  gas  lights  in  the  adjoining 
apartment  were  speedily  lighted,  and  we  were  not  a little 
gratified  to  find  that  the  mob  after  gfcring  another  uproarious 
cheer  at  the  success  of  their  demonstration  went  on  their  way, 
and  thus  by  degrees  the  previous  quiet  was  restored.  But  it 
was  some  time  before  the  public  resumed  their  places  in  the 
room  and  became  so  far  tranquillized  that  we  could  at  length 
begin.  I was  not  a little  fearful  that  the  fright  and  the  long 
pause  would  make  my  wife  still  more  nervous  and  I listened 
therefore  to  her  first  accords  in  the  greatest  anxiety;  but 
when  I heard  these  resound  with  their  usual  power  I became 
immediately  tranquillized,  and  gave  my  attention  wholly  to 
the  unity  and  ensemble  of  our  play.  This,  which  in  Germany 
had  always  pleased  so  much,  did  not  fail  to  make  its  Affect 
upon  an  English  audience  also ; the  applause,  indeed,  increased 
with  every  theme  of  the  duet,  and  at  ite  conclusion  seemed 
as  though  it  never  would  cease.  As  we  retired  highly  grati- 
fied with  this  success,  we  neither  of  us  thought  that  it  was 
the  last  time , that  Dorette  would  play  on  the  harp.  But  of 
that  hereafter! 

As  regards  the  other  items  of  the  programme  in  which 
I took  part,  I was  particularly  pleased  with  the  good  recep- 
tion which  the  nonette  met  with.  I had  already  played  it 


Digitized  by  foozle 


96 


with  the  same  artists  at  one  of  the  Philharmonic  concerts,  and 
was  invited  on  many  sides  to  repeat  it  at  my  concert.  The 
accuracy  of  our  ensemble  was  this  time  more  complete,  and 
therefore  it  could  fail  in  its  effect.  The  Irish  melodies  were 
generally  well  received.  Thus,  in  spite  of  the  disturbing  in- 
termezzo, the  concert  terminated  to  the  general  satisfaction 
of  all.  The  interval  after  the  first  part  and  the  promenade 
in  the  adjoining  saloon  were  this  time  entirely  prevented  by 
the  damage  which  it  had  sustained;  the  confectioner  told  me 
that,  having  had  no  demand  for  his  refreshments,  he  was  the 
ten  pound  in  pocket,  although  he  had  had  some  things  smashed 
on  the  buffet  by  the  volley  of  stones.  When  at  length,  exceed- 
ingly fatigued,  we  got  into  our  carriage,  we  were  not  able  to 
drive  straight  home,  as  the  mob  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Port- 
land Place  still  had  it  all  their  own  way.  The  coachman  was 
therefore  obliged  to  t^te  all  manner  of  circuitous  turnings, 
and  it  was  past  one  in  the  morning  when  we  at  length  drove 
up  to  our  own  door.  With  the  exception  of  our  floor  we 
found  the  whole  house  lit  up,  and  the  landlady  was  awaiting 
our  return  in  the  greatest  anxiety,  in  order  to  light  up 
our  windows  also.  And  indeed  it  was  high  time ; for  the  mob 
were  heard  approaching.  But  as  in  obedience  to  their  sovereign 
will  they  found  the  whole  of  Charlotte-street  brilliantly  illumin- 
ated, they  passed  on  without  committing  any  excesses.  But 
it  was  not  safe  to  extinguish  the  lights,  and  not  until  the  lapse 
of  several  hours,  when  the  town  had  become  quite  quiet,  did 
we  at  length  get  the  rest  we  so  much  needed. 


Now  comes  a sorrowful  period  in  my  life,  on  which  I 
now  still  think  with  grief.  My  wife  felt  so  ill  from  the  effects 
of  the  great  exertions  she  had  made  in  acquiring  the  mastery 
of  the  new  harp  and  the  alternate  impressions  upon  her  ner- 
vous system  on  the  evening  of  the  concert,  that  I was  greatly 
afraid  she  was  about  to  have  a third  attack  of  nervous  fever. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


97 


It  was  therefore  high  time  to  come  to  some  firm  resolve  as 
regarded  her  future  well-being.  Already  after  her  second 
attack  in  Darmstadt,  when  she  had  become  fully  restored  to 
health,  I had  endeavoured  to  persuade  her  to  abandon  her 
nerve- destroying  instrument,  but  when  I saw  how  much  this 
proposition  distressed  her,  I again  immediately  relinquished  it. 
She  was  too  much  heart  and  soul  the  artiste,  and  had  acquired 
too  great  a love  for  the  instrument  to  which  she  owed  so 
many  triumphs,  to  be  able  to  give  it  up  readily;  and  it  had 
always  been  a source  of  happiness  to  her  to  think  that  she 
could  assist  with  her  talent  towards  the  maintenance  of  our 
family.  But  now,  that  she  was  but  too  convinced  that  her 
physical  powers  were  not  sufficient  to  conquer  the  new  in- 
strument, and  a return  to  the  old  one  would  not  satisfy  her 
after  having  made  herself  intimately  acquainted  with  the  ad- 
vantages of  the  new  one  in  tone  and  mechanism,  it  became 
much  easier  for  me  to  win  her  over  to  my  way  of  thinking, 
particularly  when  I represented  to  her  that  as  the  artiste  she 
could  still  be  known,  and  in  future  appear  at  my  concerts  as 
pianiste,  for  which  she  had  all  the  necessary  qualifications. 
This  tranquillized  her  very  much,  although  she  was  obliged 
to  admit  to  herself,  that  she  would  never  be  able  to  achieve 
upon  the  pianoforte  the  same  success  as  on  the  harp,  upon 
which  in  Germany  at  least  she  had  not  her  equal.  I moreover 
promised  her,  that  in  order  to  give  her  performances  the 
charm  of  novelty,  I would  write  some  brilliant  concert  themes, 
and  as  it  was  very  important  for  me  to  try  my  hand  also  at 
pianoforte  compositions,  I immediately  set  to  work  and  finished 
before  leaving  London  the  first  subject  of  the  piano-quintet 
Op.  52.  In  order  to  remove  the  harp  wholly  from  her  sight, 
I sent  it  to  Mr.  Erard.  When  I informed  him  that  my  wife 
was  compelled  to  abandon  the  harp  entirely  on  account  of 
the  weak  state  of  her  health , he  took  it  back  very  willingly, 
and  refused  a compensation  for  the  use  made  of  it  up  to  that 
time.  In  a most  gallant  manner  he  said,  the  instrument  had 
now  acquired  a real  value,  from  having  been  played  upon 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  IL  7 


Digitized  by 


Google 


98 


by  so  celebrated  an  artiste,  and  that  too  at  her  last  public 
performance. 

I now  again  took  daily  walks  into  the  country  with  my 
wife  and  had  soon  the  pleasure  of  seeing  that  she  was  gradually 
recovering  her  strength.  The  thought  that  she  would  soon 
see  her  children  again  contributed  no  doubt  in  a very  great 
measure  towards  this  improvement.  I also  longed  to  be  home 
again  with  my  family,  and  immediately  the  last  Philharmonic 
concert  was  over,  I made  preparations  for  leaving. 

I must  here  by  way  of  appendix  speak  of  the  musical 
institution  of  Mr.  Logier,  which  I visited  several  times  with  great 
interest,  and  respecting  which  I sent  the  following  report  to 
the  Leipsic  Musical  Journal  of  August  1820:  “Mr.  Logier , a 
German  by  birth,  but  resident  for  the  last  fifteen  years  in  Eng- 
land, gives  instruction  in  pianoforte-play  and  in  harmony  upon 
a method  of  his  own  invention,  in  which  he  permits  all  the 
children,  frequently  as  many  as  thirty  or  forty,  to  play  at  the 
same  time.  For  this  purpose  he  has  written  three  volumes 
of  studies,  which  are  all  grounded  upon  perfectly  simple  themes, 
and  progress  by  degrees  to  the  most  difficult  ones.  While 
beginners  play  the  theme,  the  more  advanced  pupils  practise 
themselves  at  the  same  time  in  more  or  less  difficult  varia- 
tions: one  might  imagine  that  from  this  manner  of  proceeding 
great  confusion  must  ensue,  out  of  which  the  teacher  would 
be  able  to  distinguish  very  little;  but  as  the  children  who 
play  these  studies,  sit  near  each  other,  one  hears,  according  to 
whichever  part  of  the  room  one  may  be  in,  either  one  or 
the  other  of  the  studies  very  distinctly.  The  teacher  also  fre- 
quently makes  half  of  the  pupils,  at  times  all  but  one,  cease 
playing,  in  order  to  ascertain  their  progress  individually.  In 
the  last  lessons  he  makes  use  of  his  chiroplast,  a machine 
by  means  of  which  the  children  get  accustomed  to  a good 
position  of  the  arms  and  hands,  and  which  so  soon  as  they 
have  progressed  so  far  as  to  know  the  notes  and  keys,  is  re- 
moved first  from  one  hand  and  then  from  the  other,  and  then 
for  the  first  time  they  put  their  fingers  to  the  keys  and  learn 


Digitized  by  foozle 


99 


to  play  scales;  but  all  this,  in  the  respective  studies,  with  all 
the  children  at  once,  and  always  in  the  strictest  time.  When 
they  have  then  progressed  to  a new  lesson  they  do  not  of 
course  succeed  in  bringing  out  more  than  a few  notes  of  each 
bar,  in  the  quick  movement  which  they  hear  being  played 
near  or  around  them;  but  they  soon  overcome  more  and 
more  of  them,  and  in  a shorter  time  than  might  well  be  be- 
lieved, the  new  lesson  is  played  as  well  as  the  previous  one. 
But  what  is  most  remarkable  in  Mr.  Logier's  method  of  teach- 
ing is , that , with  the  very  first  lessons  in  pianoforte  playing 
he  teaches  his  pupils  harmony  at  the  same  time.  Bow  he 
does  this,  I do  not  know;  and  that  is  his  secret,  for  which 
each  of  the  teachers  in  England  who  give  instruction  on  his 
system  pay  him  one  hundred  guineas.  The  results  of  this 
method  with  his  pupils  are  nevertheless  wonderful ; for  children 
between  the  ages  of  seven  and  ten  years  solve  the  most  diffi- 
cult problems.  I wrote  down  on  the  board  a triad,  and  de- 
noted the  key  in  which  they  were  to  modulate  it : one  of  the 
littlest  girls  immediately  ran  to  the  board,  and  after  very 
little  reflection  wrote  first  the  bass,  and  then  the  upper  notes. 
I frequently  repeated  this  test,  and  indeed  with  the  addition 
of  all  manners  of  difficulties:  I extended  it  to  the  most  di- 
vergent keys  in  which  enharmonic  changes  were  required,  yet 
they  never  became  embarrassed.  If  one  could  not  succeed, 
another  immediately  came  forward,  whose  bass  perhaps  was 
corrected  by  a third;  and  for  everything  they  did  they  were 
obliged  to  assign  the  reason  to  the  teacher.  At  length  I wrote 
upon  the  table  a simple  treble  — the  first  that  came  into  my 
head  — and  told  each  of  them  to  put  the  other  three  voices 
to  it,  each  upon  her  own  slate.  At  the  same  time  I said  to 
them  that  the  solution  of  the  theme  which  the  teacher  and  I 
should  consider  the  best,  I would  inscribe  in  my  musical  album 
as  a souvenir  of  their  performance.  All  were  now  full  of 
life  and  activity,  and  in  a few  minutes  one  of  the  littlest  of 
the  girls,  who  had  already  distinguished  herself  by  her  play 
and  in  working  out  the  first  problems,  brought  me  her  slate 

7* 


Digitized  by  Google 


100 


to  inspect,  but  in  her  haste  she  had  omitted  an  octave  in  the 
third  bar  between  the  bass  and  one  of  the  middle  voices.  No 
sooner  had  I pointed  it  out  to  her,  than  blushing  and  with 
tears  in  her  eyes  she  took  back  the  slate  and  rapidly  cor- 
rected her  error.  As  in  her  performance  the  bass  was  indisput- 
ably the  best  of  all,  the  teacher  wrote  it  in  my  album,  and 
I subjoin  it  here  with  diplomatic  accuracy. 


in^mnin 


r 


■j-r  r\«— ijg|!|g|g|gg|| 


I,  6 i S I \fT  bfiS  t I 6 


7 41 


I 


The  resolutions  of  the  other  children  were  more  or  less 
good,  but  all  of  them  correct,  and  mostly  written  out  in  four 
different  keys.  Each  also  played  her  own  immediately  without 
any  embarrassment  on  the  pianoforte  and  without  “fault,”  &c. 

Upon  my  announcing  our  approaching  departure  to  my 
old  Johanning , tears  came  into  the  eyes  of  the  kind  and  af- 
fectionate old  man.  He  had  become  so  fond  of  us  that  he  would 
have  even  refused  all  remuneration  for  the  services  he  had 
rendered  us,  and  positively  objected  to  take  the  sum  I had 
reserved  for  him.  But  upon  my  insisting  on  his  taking  it  he 
complied,  on  the  condition  that  I would  not  refuse  him  a 
favour  he  wished  to  ask  of  me.  I asked  him  what  it  was,  and 
he  did  not  keep  me  long  in  suspense,  but  stammered  out  in 
an  embarrassed  manner  the  request  that  I and  my  wife  would 
do  him  the  honour  to  take  our  dinner,  the  day  before  our 
departure,  at  his  house.  When  we  consented  thereto  without 
hesitation,  his  whole  countenance  immediately  brightened  up, 
and  he  could  not  find  words  to  express  sufficiently  his  gra- 


Digitized  by  Google 


101 


titude.  On  the  appointed  day  he  made  his  appearance  dressed 
as  I had  never  yet  seen  him,  in  a full-dress  suit  of  his  de- 
ceased master’s,  with  hair  powdered,  and  in  white  silk  stockings, 
and  at  our  door  stood  a hackney  carriage  for  four  persons,  which 
was  to  take  us  to  his  country  house,  and  in  which  a musician 
whom  he  had  also  invited,  and  whose  acquaintance  we  had  al- 
ready made,  and  who  was  the  most  intimate  friend  of  his 
late  master,  was  already  seated.  When  we  had  got  in,  Johanning 
refused  to  take  the  fourth  seat,  saying  that  it  would  be  un- 
becoming of  him  tp  do  so,  although  I pointed  out  to  him 
that  he  was  now  no  longer  my  servant,  but  for  this  day  my 
host  and  entertainer.  But  he  was  not  to  be  persuaded,  and 
took  his  usual  place  by  the  side  of  the  coachman.  On  the 
way  there  our  companion  related  to  us  many  particulars  highly 
creditable  to  Johanning  — how  he  had  shewn  the  most  ardent 
attachment  and  fidelity  to  his  master,  and  after  his  death  had 
applied  the  greater  part  of  the  money  he  had  left  him,  to 
the  erection  of  a memorial  to  his  master  in  Westminster  Ab- 
bey, so  that  we  felt  penetrated  with  the  highest  respect  for  our 
recent  servant.  Upon  our  arrival  he  opened  the  carriage  door 
and  led  us  into  his  house.  The  property  consisted  of  a small 
house  with  a small  garden  attached,  and  everywhere  the  great- 
est neatness  and  cleanliness.  He  led  the  way  up  one  flight 
of  stairs  to  his  reception  room,  and  did  not  fail  to  show  us 
immediately  the  bell-pull  near  the  mantle-piece,  to  which  he 
forthwith  gave  a tug*,  although  he  kept  no  servant  whom  he 
could  summon  with  it,  since  he  and  his  wife  were  their  own 
servants.  We  then  took  a turn  through  the  little  garden  and 
then  entered  the  parlour,  where  the  table  was  laid  for  three 
persons.  Johanning  again  refused  to  take  a seat  near  us  at 
table,  and  this  time  for  the  cogent  reason  that  we  should 
then  have  had  no  one  to  wait  upon  us.  Upon  this  he  brought 
up  the  dinner  and  as  master  of  the  house  waited  upon  his 
guests,  during  which  occupation  his  whole  countenance  wore  an 
expression  of  the  greatest  pleasure.  The  dinner  was  exceed- 
ingly well  dressed  and  served  up  on  an  elegant  china  dinner- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


102 


service  which  had  belonged  to  his  master,  and  the  excellent 
Rhenish  wine  which  he  placed  before  us  was  no  doubt  de- 
rived also  from  the  same  source.  The  dessert,  strawberries 
and  cherries,  was  the  produce  of  his  little  garden,  and  this 
he  did  not  fail  to  announce  to  his  guests.  — When  dinner  was 
over  he  led  the  way  once  more  to  his  drawing-room,  where 
we  found  Mrs.  Johanning , who  till  then  had  been  engaged  in 
the  kitchen  in  dressing  and  sending  up  the  dinner,  in  fall 
Sunday  attire.  There  at  length,  though  only  after  repeated 
pressing,  the  worthy  old  couple  allowed  tl^mselves  to  be  per- 
suaded to  take  seats  at  the  table,  on  which  coffee  had  al- 
- ready  been  placed.  Johanning  was  now  in  the  height  of 
happiness,  and  interpreted  with  no  little  satisfaction  to  his 
wife  the  praises  which  we  had  expressed  and  still  reiterated 
of  the  admirable  manner  in  which  we  had  been  entertained. 
Towards  evening  the  coach  again  drove  up  to  the  door  to 
take  us  back  to  town.  But  Johanning  could  not  be  deterred 
from  resuming  his  old  place  by  the  side  of  the  coachman,  to 
accompany  us  home,  and  open  the  carriage  door.  In  fact, 
even  on  the  next  morning  he  presented  himself  again,  in  order 
to  be  of  assistance  at  our  departure.  At  the  coach-office  we 
found  also  several  friends  and  acquaintance  waiting  to  bid 
us  farewell. 

* * 

* 

We  returned  again  by  way  of  Dover*  and  Calais,  in  order 
to  take  our  own  carriage  which  we  had  left  at  Lille.  Our 
passage  across  this  time  was  a very  calm  one  and  the  weather 
fine,  so  that  not  any  of  the  passengers  were  sea-sick.  Between 
Calais  and  Lille  the  diligence  stopped  at  a so  charming  place 
to  dine  that  even  now,  after  so  long  a time,  I recollect  it  with 
a feeling  of  pleasure.  It  was  at  the  small  town  of  Cassel, 
which  is  situated  upon  a high  isolated  conical  hill  that  rises 
in  the  midst  of  an  extensive  plain.  The  weather  being 
fine,  dinner  had  been  laid  for  the  travellers  in  the  garden  of 
the  inn  under  a bower  of  vines,  and  during  the  repast,  from 


Digitized  by  foozle 


103 


this  pleasant,  cool  situation  we  enjoyed  an  extensive  view 
over  the  beautiful  country  round.  In  Lille  we  again  spent 
some  pleasant  days  in  the  society  of  the  Vogel  family  and 
other  of  our  friends  there,  and  then  without  longer  stay  set 
out  in  our  own  carriage  upon  our  further  journey. 

As  a natural  consequence  of  the  painful  ordeal  of  grief 
through  which  my  parents  had  passed  on  our  account,  and 
after  the  first  long  separation  from  our  children,  our  reception 
this  time  in  Gandersheim  was  beyond  measure  one  of  heart- 
felt joy,  and  after  our  protracted  exertions  and  fatigue  we 
now  indeed  felt  once  more  happy  and  freed  from  care  in  the 
calm  repose  of  the  country.  This  was  just  the  time  for  me 
to  set  myself  to  new  labours,  and  I there  first  completed  the 
quintet  for  pianoforte,  flute,  clarinet,  horn  and  double-bass 
which  I had  begun  in  London,  and  in  which  I proposed  that 
my  wife  should  make  her  appearance  in  the  world  of  art  as 
a pianiste  on  our  projected  winter  tour.  Indeed,  it  was  high 
time  to  occupy  her  in  its  artistic  study;  for  as  she  now  felt 
quite  re-established  in  health,  she  had  the  greatest  desire  to 
resume  her  harp.  With  the  assistance  of  the  new  quin- 
tet, however,  and  supported  by  the  medical  counsel  of  my 
father,  I soon  succeeded  in  dissuading  her  from  it.  She  therefore 
devoted  her  attention  to  the  pianoforte  with  the  greatest  zeal, 
and  in  a short  time  had  the  gratification  of  finding  she  had 
reacquired  her  former  technical  skill  upon  that  instrument. 
After  the  lapse  of  a few  weeks  she  succeeded  therefore  in  exe- 
cuting the  new  and  difficult  concert -piece  to  her  and  my 
satisfaction. 

About  this  time  we  had  a visit  from  two  musical  Ham- 
burg friends,  Messrs.  Fritz  Schwenke  and  Wilhelm  Grund,  the 
latter  of  whom  brought  his  younger  brother  Edward  with  him, 
who  was  alreadya  good  violinist,  to  become  my  pupil.  With 
the  assistance  of  these  three  I now  gave  our  musical  friends 
of  Gandersheim  a quartet-party  such  as  they  had  never  heard 
before  nor  have  since.  In  order  to  have  my  new  quintet  heard 
upon  this  occasion  also,  I quickly  rewrote  the  accompaniment 


Digitized  by 


Google 


104 


of  the  four  wind-instruments , for  a stringed  - quartet,  and  in 
this  shape  was  highly  pleased  with  its  effect,  as  also  with  the 
brilliant  play  of  my  wife.  From  the  great  success  this  had 
met  with,  she  felt  much  encouraged  in  her  new  studies  and 
consoled  in  some  measure  for  her  relinquishment  of  the  harp. 
To  provide  her  still  with  new  materials  for  practice,  I rewrote 
also  two  former  harp-compositions  for  the  piano,  a pot-pourri 
and  a rondo  with  violin,  which  appeared  later  as  Op.  50  and 
51.  We  practised  these  together  also  with  the  greatest  care, 
and  they  were  destined  for  performance  at  private  parties  on 
our  next  winter  tour.  After  the  departure  of  the  Hamburg 
visitors  I commenced  the  instruction  of  my  new  pupil.  By 
his  talent  and  amiability  he  soon  won  the  esteem  of  the  whole 
Spohr  family,  from  the  old  grandfather  down  to  little  Theresa, 
whom  he  always  called  in  pure  Hamburg  dialect:  “Du  saute 
Deren.”  As  he  played  well  on  the  piano,  he  undertook  the 
musical  instruction  of  Emilia  and  Ida , and  young  as  he  was, 
he  knew  how  to  keep  them  assiduous  to  their  studies.  Him- 
self as  violinist  he  soon  made  so  much  progress,  that  I prac- 
tised him  in  and  played  with  him  the  three  extremely  diffi- 
cult violin -duets  which  I wrote  in  Switzerland  (Op.  39)  and 
for  which  I had  never  yet  been  able  to  meet  with  a fellow- 
player.  By  the  accurate,  pure  and  spirited  execution  of  this 
almost  always  four -voiced  duets  we  made  a great  sensation, 
and  musical  amateurs  from  the  whole  country  round  came 
to  hear  us  play  them.  We  played  one  of  them  also  with  great 
success  at  a concert  in  Hildesheim,  given  there  by  the  director 
of  music  Bischoff , the  same  who  undertook  the  Frankenhaus 
musical  festivals.  Towards  autumn,  just  as  I had  begun  to 
compose  a new  violin  concerto  (the  9th.  D-minor.  Op.  55, 
published  by  Andri  of  Offenbach)  for  the  winter  journey,  I 
received  an  invitation  from  music-director  Rese  in  Quedlinburg 
to  conduct  a musical  festival  which  he  was  about  to  hold  there. 
I very  gladly  accepted  it,  and  made  all  haste  to  complete  my 
concerto  so  as  to  be  able  to  perform  it  there  for  the  first 
time.  While  practising  it  I received  great  assistance  from 


Digitized  by  Google 


105 


Edward  Grand,  who  was  able  to  accompany  through  the  score 
on  the  piano,  an  assistance,  which  I had  never  before  ex- 
perienced. 

The  musical  festival  took  place  on  the  13th.  and  14th. 
October  1820,  and  went  off  to  the  full  satisfaction  of  the  ori- 
ginator and  the  numerous  auditory.  Upon  my  proposition, 
Schneider's  “Last  Judgement”  was  given  on  the  first  day,  at 
which  the  composer  himself  was  present.  On  the  second  day, 
among  other  things  my  London  symphony  was  performed,  and, 
as  well  as  my  new  violin  concerto,  was  received  with  great 
approbation.  I met  in  Quedlinburg  many  of  my  former  friends 
and  acquaintances  from  Sondershausen,  Gotha,  Leipzig,  Magde- 
burg, Halberstadt  and  Brunswick,  and  passed  several  delight- 
ful days  with  them.  After  our  return  from  this  pleasant  ex- 
cursion, upon  which  my  parents  and  Edward  Grand,  as  well 
as  my  wife,  had  accompained  me,  it  became  full  time  to  set 
out  upon  our  winter  tour,  the  terminus  of  which  was  to  be 
Paris.  A new  parting  from  the  children,  my  parents,  and  the 
pleasant  society  of  Gandersheim,  was  therefore  necessary ; and 
Edward  Grand  returned  to  Hamburg  with  the  intention  of 
coming  again  in  the  spring  to  prosecute  his  studies  under  my 
guidance. 

We  took  Frankfort,  Heidelberg,  Carlsruhe  and  Strasburg 
on  our  way  to  Paris,  and  gave  concerts  in  all  those  towns. 
In  Frankfort,  where  we  lived  in  the  house  of  my  friend  Speyer , 
we  still  found  a lively  remembrance  of  our  artistic  talents; 
our  concert  in  the  salon  of  the  a Weidenbusch”  was  crowded 
to  overflowing,  although  the  room  could  easily  accommodate 
eight  hundred  persons.  My  new  violin  concerto,  excellently 
accompanied,  made  a great  sensation;  Councillor  Andr6  him- 
self, who  previously  had  always  some  fault  to  find  with  my 
compositions,  seemed  quite  satisfied  with  my  new  work;  for 
he  repeatedly  requested  me,  after  the  rehearsal  even,  to  let 
him  have  the  publishing  of  it.  Although  I declined  this  most 
positively,  as  I was  bound  by  a promise  to  my  then  publisher 
Peters  of  Leipsic,  to  let  him  have  all  my  new  manuscripts,  yet 


Digitized  by 


Google 


106 


in  the  evening  at  the  concert  AndrS  again  pressed  me,  and  so 
pertinaciously,  that  to  get  rid  of  him,  and  to  prepare  quietly 
for  my  solo-play,  I at  last  called  out  to  him  “Yes.”  This 
precipitancy  however  cost  me  dear,  for  although  I imme- 
diately informed  Peters  of  all  the  circumstances,  in  order  to 
exculpate  himself  with  him,  I was  compelled  to  endure  many 
bitter  reproaches  for  my  excessive  pliancy  towards  Mr.  AndrS. 
The  new  piano  quintet  with  wind-instrument  accompaniment, 
which  was  now  also  performed,  made  likewise  a great  sensa- 
tion, and  Dorette’s  purity  of  piano-forte  play,  of  which  until 
then  the  friends  of  music  in  Frankfort  had  known  nothing,  was 
greeted  with  the  loudest  applause.  I was  more  particularly 
pleased  with  this  result,  as  of  all  others  it  was  calculated  to 
console  my  wife  for  the  abandonment  of  her  harp. 

Of  the  other  towns  between  Frankfort  and  Paris,  and  of 
the  concerts  given  there  I have  forgotten  everything;  I must 
however  advert  to  the  acquaintance  I made  of  Councillor  TAi- 
baut  at  Heidelberg  on  this  occasion.  That  celebrated  jurist 
conducted  a choral  society  that  he  had  instituted ; but  exclud- 
ing all  modern  church  music,  he  permitted  ancient  Italian 
music  only  to  be  sung,  of  which  he  had  made  a rich  and 
rare  collection.  Until  then  I knew  nothing  more  of  this  music 
than  what  I had  heard  in  the  Sixtine  chapel  at  Rome,  and 
was  therefore  very  thankful  to  the  Councillor  for  the  permis- 
sion he  gave  me  to  be  present  at  the  rehearsals  of  his  society, 
at  which  I became  better  acquainted  with  several  of  those  old 
works,  which  were  carefully  practised  by  them.  Thibaut’s 
opinion  that  this  music  alone  represented  the  true  ecclesiastical 
style,  and  surpassed  all  that  had  ever  been  written  since,  I 
cannot  coincide  with,  for  to  me  Moearfs  requiem,  incomplete 
as  it  passed  from  the  hands  of  that  master,  who  died  during 
its  composition,  is  alone  worth  more  than  all  I ever  heard  of 
earlier  church  music;  nevertheless,  the  simple-grandiose  style 
of  those  works  made  then  a great  impression  on  me,  and  I 
begged  permission  to  study  their  scopes  through.  After 
some  hesitation  my  wish  was  granted  in  such  wise  that  I was 


Digitized  by  Google 


107 


permitted  to  visit  TMbaut’s  music-room  at  particular  hours, 
and  to  go  through  the  works  on  the  piano,  but  was  not  per- 
mitted to  take  any  home  with  me.  I took  daily  advantage  of 
this  favour,  and  by  that  means  made  myself  intimately 
acquainted  with  the  vocal  method  and  harmonic  sequence  of 
the  old  masters.  While  so  engaged  I was  seized  with  the 
desire  of  trying  for  once  an  ecclesiastic  piece  alia  Capella  for 
several  voices,  and  in  the  following  summer  I carried  out  my 
idea  at  Gandersheim  with  the  composition  of  the  mass  for  ten 
voices,  Op.  54.  I certainly  did  not  strive  to  imitate  the  simple 
treble  movements  of  the  old  masters;  but  on  the  contrary  I 
did  a good  deal  towards  carrying  out  the  rich  modulation  of 
the  later  Mozart  method. 

Respecting  our  stay  in  Paris  I published  at  the  time 
“Four  letters  to  a Friend”  in  the  Leipsic  Musical  Journal  of 
1821,  which  I here  append. 

FIRST  LETTER. 

Paris , December  15.  1820. 

I trust,  my  dear  friend,  that  you  will  give  me  credit  for 
writing  to  you  so  soon  on  the  eighth  day  after  our  arrival,  at  a 
time  when  so  many  novelties  crowd  upon  my  notice,  that  I 
find  it  difficult  to  collect  my  thoughts.  But  for  my  own  sake 
I must  not  permit  the  materials  to  grow  upon  me  too  much, 
otherwise  I shall  be  wholly  unable  to  deal  with  them  in  their 
due  order. 

With  a beating  heart  I drove  through  the  Barriere  of 
Paris.  The  thought,  that  I should  at  length  have  the  plea- 
sure of  making  the  personal  acquaintance  of  the  artists  whose 
works  had  inspired  me  in  my  early  childhood,  excited  the 
emotion  which  I then  felt.  In  fancy  I reverted  to  the  days 
of  my  boyhood,  in  which  Cherubini  yas  my  idol,  whose  works 
I had  had  an  earlier  opportunity  of  becoming  acquainted  with 
in  Brunswick,  at  the  then  permanent  French  theatre  there, 
than  even  the  works  of  Mozart ; I vividly  recollected  the  even- 
ing when  the  “Deux  Journees”  was  performed  for  the  first 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


108 


time  — how,  intoxicated  with  delight  and  the  powerful  impression 
that  work  had  made  upon  me,  I asked  on  that  very  evening 
to  have  the  score  given  to  me,  and  sat  over  it  the  whole  night ; 
and  that  it  was  that  opera  chiefly  that  gave  me  the  first  im- 
pulse to  composition.  The  author,  and  many  other  men  whose 
works  had  had  the  most  decided  influence  on  my  development 
as  a composer  and  violinist,  I was  now  soon  to  behold. 

We  had  therefore  scarcely  got  under  cover,  when  I made 
it  my  first  business  to  pay  a visit  to  those  artists.  I was  re- 
ceived by  all  in  a friendly  manner,  and  relations  of  friend- 
ship soon  sprang  up  between  me  and  several  of  them. 

I -was  told  of  Cherubini , that  he  was  at  first  very  re- 
served toward  strangers,  repulsive  even;  I did  not  find  him 
so.  He  received  me,  without  any  letter  of  introduction,  in 
the  most  friendly  manner,  and  invited  me  to  repeat  my  visit 
as  often  as  I pleased. 

On  the  evening  of  our  arrival  Kreuteer  took  us  to  the 
grand  opera,  where  a ballet  of  his,  with  pretty  characteristic 
music:  “Le  carnaval  de  Venise,”  was  performed.  It  is  observ- 
able in  the  singers  and  dancers  of  the  grand  opera,  that  they 
have  been  accustomed  to  move  in  a more  spacious  place;  in 
this  one,  where  the  space  is  much  more  confined  as  compared 
with  the  opera  house  that  has  been  abandoned,  they  appear  in 
a much  too  sharp  relief.  Several  grand  operas,  those  of  Gluck's 
for  instance,  can  no  longer  be  represented  at  all,  there  being 
not  even  the  necessary  room  for  the  whole  orchestra.  For 
this  reason  every  one  looks  forward  with  hope  for  the  early 
completion  of  the  new  opera  house;  but  actively  as  they  are 
working  upon  it,  that  will  not  be  ready  before  the  middle 
of  next  summer.  Before  the  ballet  the  opera:  “Le  Devin  du 
village,”  the  words  and  music  by  Rousseau , was  given.  Is  it 
a subject  for  praise  or  bl^me,  that  the  French,  notwithstand- 
ing the  many  excellent  things  with  which  their  operatic  re- 
pertoire has  been  enriched  during  the  last  twenty  years,  still 
give  the  oldest  things  of  all?  And  is  it  indeed  a proof  of  an 
advanced  cultivated  taste  for  art,  when  one  sees  them  give 


Digitized  by  foozle 


109 


as  enthusiastic  a reception  (if  not  more  so)  to  the  oldest  operas 
of  Gretry  with  their  poverty  of  harmony  and  incorrectness, 
as  to  the  master  pieces  of  Cherubini  and  Mehul?  I think  notl 
How  long  have  not  the  operas  of  Hiller  and  Dittersdorf  and 
others  of  those  days,  disappeared  from  our  repertoire,  although 
these  are  far  to  be  preferred  for  their  real  musical  worth  to 
the  greater  part  of  Gretry' s.  But  on  the  other  hand  it  is 
certainly  very  discouraging,  that  with  us  the  new  only,  however 
poor  and  defective,  finds  a ready  reception,  and  many  excellent 
things  of  older  date  are  set  aside  for  them  and  forgotten.  Ne- 
vertheless it  must  be  said  to  the  honour  of  the  taste  for  art 
of  the  Germans,  that  Mozart's  operas  at  least  are  the  excep- 
tion, and  for  the  last  thirty  years  have  constantly  been  pro- 
produced  in  all  the  theatres  of  Germany,  which  is  a proof 
that  the  German  people  are  at  length  impressed  with  the  in- 
imitable perfection  of  those  master-pieces,  and  are  not  to  be 
deceived  on  this  head,  however  extensively  the  sweet  mu- 
sical poison  may  spread  which  flows  in  upon  us  so  profusely 
from  beyond  the  Alps. 

The  orchestra  of  the  grand  opera,  as  compared  with  the 
other  orchestras,  reckons  among  its  members  the  most  cele- 
brated and  distinguished  artistes,  but  in  ensemble  is  said  to 
be  behind  the  Italian  opera.  I cannot  yet  judge  how  far  that 
may  be  correct,  as  I have  only  heard  the  latter  as  yet.  In 
Kreutzer’s  ballet,  which  was  played  by  the  orchestra  with  the 
greatest  precision,  I was  greatly  pleased  with  a hautboy 
solo,  which  was  executed  in  a masterly  manner  by  Mr.  Voigt. 
This  artist  has  succeeded  in  giving  to  liis  instrument  a perfect 
uniformity  of  tone  and  intonation  throughout  the  whole  range 
froja  C to  the  high  F,  an  accomplishment  which  almost  all 
hautboy  players  have  failed  in  attaining.  His  execution  is  more- 
over full  of  grace  and  good  taste. 

For  some  days  past  I have  been  less  edified  at  the  grand 
opera  than  I was  the  first  time.  “Les  mysteres  d’Isis”  was 
performed.  Too  well  indeed  are  justified  the  complaints  of 
the  admirers  of  Mozart  of  the  disfigurement  of  the  beautiful 


Digitized  by 


Google 


no 


“Zauberflote”  in  this  piece  of  workmanship  t which  the  French 
themselves  re-christened  on  its  appearance  “Les  Miseres  d’ici”  1 
One  must  blush  that  it  should  have  been  Germans,  who  so 
sinned  against  the  immortal  master.  Everything  but  the 
overture  has  been  meddled  with;  all  else  has  been  thrown 
into  confusion,  been  changed  and  mutilated.  The  opera  begins 
with  the  concluding  chorus  of  the  Zauberflote;  then  comes 
the  march  in  Titus,  and  then  in  succession  some  fragmentary 
piece  from  other  operas  of  Mozart,  and  even  a little  bit 
of  a symphony  of  Haydn ; then  between  these  recitatives 
of  Mr.  Lachnitz ’ own  manufacture.  But  worse  than  all  this 
is,  that  the  transposers  have  applied  a serious  text  to  many 
cheerful  and  even  comic  passages  of  the  Zauberflote,  by  which 
the  music  of  those  passages  becomes  a parody  of  the  text 
and  of  the  situation.  In  this  manner,  for  instance,  Papagena 
sings  the  characteristic  air  of  the  Moor:  “Alles  fiihlt  der  Liebe 
Freuden,”  &c. ; and  the  pretty  terzet  of  the  three  boys:  “Seid 
uns  zura  zweitenmal  willkommen,”  &c.,  is  6ung  by  the  three 
ladies.  Of  the  duet:  “Bei  Mannern,  welche  Liebe  fiihlen,”  &c., 
a terzet  has  been  made,  and  so  on.  Worse  than  all,  however, 
they  have  taken  the  liberty  of  making  alterations  in  the  score: 
for  example,  in  the  air:  “In  diesen  heil’gen  Hallen,”  at  the 
words:  “So  wandelt  er  an  Freundes  Hand,”  the  imitating  bass 


is  entirely  left  out,  which  is  here  indispensably  necessary,  not 
alone  to  the  harmony,  but  because  it  expresses  the  act  of 
wandering  in  so  characteristic  a manner,  and  the  bass  sqpmd 
the  B only  a few  times  instead.  You  may  therefore  readily 
imagine  how  insipid  and  meagre  this  passage  now  sounds, 
which  in  Germany  is  so  frequently  admired.  Moreover,  in  the 
terzet  of  the  three  females,  where  Mozart  strengthens  and 
supports  the  third  voice  with  the  violins  only,  the  transposers 
have  added  both  violoncello  and  double-bass ; so  that  at  these 


Digitized  by  Google 


Ill 


tender  passages,  which  are  for  three  voices  only,  the  bass 
lies  in  three  different  octaves,  which  to  a cultivated  ear  is 
unbearable.  Similar  offences  are  of  frequent  occurrence.  We 
must  nevertheless  do  the  French  the  justice  to  say,  that  they 
have  always  highly  disapproved  of  this  vandalic  mutilation  of 
a great  master-piece  (the  extent  of  which  from  their  ignorance 
of  the  original  is  yet  not  known  to  them) ; but  how  is  it,  that 
the  “ Mysteres ” have  nevertheless  kept  their  place  undisturbed 
in  the  repertoire  for  the  last  eighteen  or  twenty  years?  — 
and  here  where  the  public  moreover,  as  I see  every  day, 
rule  so  despotically  in  the  theatre,  and  manage  to  have  very- 
thing  their  own  wayl  — 

To  me,  as  a German,  the  performance  was  not  satisfac- 
tory. Even  the  overture  was  not  executed  so  well  as  it  should 
have  been  by  so  excellent  a union  of  first-rate  musicians.  It 
was  taken  too  quick,  and  still  more  hurried  at  the  close,  so 
that  the  violins  instead  of  playing  semiquavers  could  only  play 
quavers.  The  singers  of  the  grand  opera,  whose  great  merits 
may  perhaps  lie  in  declamatory  song,  are  little  qualified  to 
render  the  soft  airs  of  the  Zauberflote  in  a satisfactory  manner. 
They  sing  them  with  a blunt  roughness  that  deprives  them 
of  all  tenderness.  The  getting-up  in  scenery,  dresses  and 
dancing  is  respectable,  but  not  so  handsome  as  I had  expected. 
— Yesterday  we  went  for  the  first  time  to  the  grand  opera, 
and  saw  “Clari,”  a grand  ballet  in  three  acts,  the  music  by 
Kreutzer . Little  as  I like  ballets,  and  little,  in  my  opinion 
as  pantomime  merits  the  aid  of  the  resources  of  art,  as  these 
are  lavished  on  it  here,  I nevertheless  do  not  deny  that  the 
Parisian  ballet  may  sometimes  afford  agreeable  amusement,  un- 
til one  becomes  wearied  with  the  monotony  of  the  mimic  mo- 
vements, and  of  the  yet  greater  sameness  of  the  dances.  But 
with  all  the  perfection  with  which  it  is  given  here,  panto- 
mime, from  the  poverty  of  its  signs,  which  always  require  a 
printed  explanation  of  their  meaning,  is,  as  compared  to  reci- 
tative drama,  a mere  outline  by  the  side  of  a finished  drawing. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


112 


However  it  may  be  embellished  with  golden  ornament  and 
decorated  surroundings,  as  is  the  ballet  here  by  magni- 
ficence of  costume  and  decorations,  it  gives  the  outline  only, 
and  the  life  is  wanting.  In  the  same  manner  I may  compare  the 
drama  to  the  opera  — as  a drawing  by  the  side  of  the  paint- 
ing. From  song,  the  poem  receives  its  first  colouring,  and 
by  it  only,  and  the  powerful  aid  of  harmony,  does  it  succeed 
in  giving  expression  to  the  indefinable  and  merely  imagined 
emotions  of  the  soul  which  language  must  be  content  alone 
to  hint  at.  The  music  to  “Clari”  is  a great  success,  and  in 
the  second  and  third  act  especially  the  effect  is  most  capti- 
vating. It  facilitates  greatly  the  comprehension  of  the  subject 
by  a correct  delineation  of  the  passions,  and  contains  a trea- 
sury of  pretty  melodies  which  one  regrets  do  not  form  part 
of  an  opera.  Mademoiselle  JBigottini  played  the  chief  character, 
and  evinced  a deep  study  of  mime  and  action  in  her  play. 
That  in  very  impassioned  situations  she  carried  the  expression 
of  her  features  to  the  borders  of  grimace,  may  perhaps  be 
imputed  to  the  circumstance  that  hitherto  she  has  always  ap- 
peared in  a spacious  place , where  on  account  of  the  distance 
it  was  requisite  to  give  strong  play  to  the  features.  Perhaps 
as  a German  this  is  my  fancy  only,  for  the  applause  was 
never  more  tumultuous  than  when  (to  my  feeling)  she  over- 
stepped the  bounds  of  the  beautiful  and  graceful. 

Before  the  ballet,  the  one -act  opera  “Le  rossignol”  was 
given ; from  which  Weigl  took  the  subject  of  his  German  opera 
of  “Nachtigall  und  Rabe.”  The  music  of  the  French  opera 
is  of  no  account,  and  interested  me  only  through  the  masterly 
execution  of  a flauto  - solo  by  Mr.  Tulou.  It  is  impossible  to 
hear  a finer  tone  than  that  Mr.  Tulou  draws  from  his  instru- 
ment. Since  I heard  him,  it  appears  to  me  no  longer  so 
inappropriate,  when  our  poets  compare  the  pleasing  sound  of 
a fine  voice  to  the  tones  of  a flute. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


113 


SECOND  LETTER. 

Paris,  December  31.  1820. 

Since  the  despatch  of  my  first  letter,  a fortnight  has 
elapsed,  replete  with  enjoyment,  and  since  then  we  have  both 
seen  and  heard  much  that  is  beautiful;  but  for  the  present 
I must  content  myself  with  writing  to  you  upon  that  which 
most  nearly  concerns  my  art.  I have  now  made  my  appear- 
ance before  musicians  and  dilettanti,  connoisseurs  and  a lay 
public,  as  violinist  and  composer,  first  at  Mr.  Baudiofs , primo 
violoncellist  of  the  royal  orchestra,  on  the  day  after  at  Kreu- 
tzer’s,  and  since  then  at  three  private  parties.  At  the  soirees 
of  the  two  first  the  company  consisted  almost  wholly  of  mu- 
sicians; at  Kreutzer's , in  particular,  almost  all  the  first  com- 
posers and  violinists  of  Paris  were  present.  I gave  several  of 
my  quartets  and  quintets,  and  on  the  second  day  my  nonet. 
The  composers  present  expressed  themselves  to  me  in  very 
laudatory  terms  upon  the  composition,  and  the  violinists  upon 
my  play.  Of  the  latter,  Viotti , both  the  Kreutzers,  Baillot , 
Lafont,  Habeneck , Fontaine , Guerin , and  several  others  whose 
names  are  not  so  well  known  in  Germany,  were  present ; and 
you  may  imagine  that  it  was  then  highly  necessary  that  I 
should  collect  my  faculties,  to  do  credit  to  my  countrymen. 
The  wind-instrument  parts  in  my  nonet  were  played  by  the 
five  artists  of  whose  masterly  execution  of  Beicha’s  quintets 
you  will  have  so  frequently  read  in  accounts  from  Paris.  I 
had  the  pleasure  of  hearing  them  play  two  of  those  quintets, 
but  shall  reserve  to  myself  all  detailed  observations  thereon 
till  I shall  have  heard  some  more  of  them.  At  the  request 
of  all  the  musicians  present  my  nonet  was  played  again  the 
same  evening;  and  if  the  readiness  with  which  the  assistant 
players  read  a prima  vista  that  difficult  piece  of  music  had 
surprised  me,  I was  still  more  gratified,  upon  its  repetition, 
by  the  manner  in  which  they  now  entered  into  the  spirit  of 
the  composition  and  re-executed  it. 

The  young  pianist  Herz , of  whom  you  have  also  doubt- 
less read  in  the  Parisian  musical  miscellanies,  played  twice 

8POHB,  Autobiography.  EL  g 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


114 


on  that  evening,  at  first  his  own  variations  on  the  theme  from  the 
“Schweizerfamilie,”  and  then  Moscheles ’ well-known  variations 
on  Alexander’s  march.  The  extraordinary  execution  of  this 
young  man  is  the  astonishment  of  everybody;  but  with  him, 
as  with  all  thp  young  artists  here  whom  I have  yet  heard, 
it  seems  to  me  that  his  technical  cultivation  is  in  advance 
of  that  of  his  mind;  otherwise,  in  a company  composed  of 
artists  only,  he  would  surely  have  given  something  different 
and  more  intellectual  than  the  break-neck  tricks  of  art  he 
exhibited.  But  it  is  very  singular,  how  all  here,  young  and 
old,  strive  only  to  shine  by  mechanical  execution,  and  indi- 
viduals in  whom  perhaps  the  germ  of  something  better  lies,  de- 
vote whole  years  and  every  energy  to  the  study  and  practice 
of  one  single  piece  of  music,  frequently  of  the  most  worthless 
kind,  in  order  to  create  a sensation  with  it  before  the  public. 
That  the  mind  remains  torpid  under  such  circumstances  and 
that  such  people  never  become  much  better  than  musical  auto- 
matons may  be  readily  imagined. 

Hence  one  seldom  or  never  hears  in  the  musical  reunions 
here  an  earnest , well-digested  piece  of  music,  such  as  a quar- 
tet or  quintet  of  our  great  masters;  every  one  produces  his 
show-piece;  you  hear  nothing  but  airs  varies , rondos  favoris, 
nocturnes , and  the  like  trifles,  and  from  the  singers  romances 
and  little  duets;  and  however  incorrect  and  insipid  all  this 
may  be,  it  never  fails  to  produce  an  effect,  if  it  is  executed 
right  smoothly  and  sweetly.  Poor  in  such  pretty  trifles,  with 
my  earnest  German  music  I am  ill  at  ease  in  such  musical 
parties,  and  feel  frequently  like  a man  who  speaks  to  people 
who  do  not  understand  his  language;  for  when  the  praise  of 
any  such  auditors  extends  even  sometimes  from  my  play  to 
the  composition  itself,  I cannot  feel  gratified  by  it,  since  im- 
mediately afterwards  he  bestows  the  same  admiration  upon  the 
most  trifling  things.  One  blushes  to  be  praised  by  such  con- 
noisseurs. It  is  just  the  same  at  the  theatres:  the  masses, 
the  leaders  of  the  fashion  here,  know  not  positively  how 
to  distinguish  the  worst  from  the  best;  they  hear  “ Le 


Digitized  by 


Google 


115 


Jugement  de  Midas”  with  the  same  rapture  that  they  tear 
ilLes  deux  Joumees”  or  “Joseph”  It  requires  no  long  residence 
here,  to  adopt  the  frequently  expressed  opinion,  that  the  French 
are  not  a musical  nation. 

The  artists  themselves  here  are  of  this  opinion,  and  fre- 
quently reply,  when  I speak  of  Germany  in  this  respect:  “Yes, 
music  is  loved  and  understood  there,  but  not  here.”  In  this 
manner  may  be  explained  how  good  music  wedded  to  a 
wretched  theatrical  piece,  falls  to  the  ground,  and  wretched 
music  united  to  a good  piece  de  the&tre , may  be  highly  suc- 
cessful. 

This  has  deprived  me  of  all  desire  to  write  for  any  of 
the  theatres  here,  as  I had  previously  much  wished  to  do; 
for  apart  from  the  fact  that  I should  have  to  begin  de  novo, 
like  a young  composer  — since,  with  the  exception  of  some  of 
my  violin  pieces,  they  know  little  or  nothing  of  my  composi- 
tions — and  further  that  I should  have  to  work  my  way  through 
a thousand  cabals,  which  would  rise  up  against  me  as  a for- 
eigner with  fearful  violence  before  I could  get  my  work  per- 
formed, so  that  at  the  end  I should  find,  although  I might 
have  written  good  music,  its  success  would  be  uncertain,  as 
that  depends,  as  I have  said,  almost  wholly  on  the  theatrical 
piece.  This  may  be  seen  from  the  notices  in  the  journals  here 
upon  recent  operas,  in  which  whole  columns  are  devoted  to 
a critique  of  the  text,  and  the  music  is  dismissed  with  a pass- 
ing notice  of  a few  words  only. 

Were  it  not  so  lucrative  to  write  for  the  theatres  in  Paris, 
there  would  have  been  long  since  no  good  composer  willing 
to  do  so.  But  from  the  considerable  gain  which  a successful 
opera  brings  in  during  one's  whole  life-time,  new  works  are 
produced  almost  every  day ; authors  and  composers  turn  their 
mind  constantly  to  the  creation  of  new  effects,  but  do  not 
neglect  at  the  same  time,  to  ply  the  public  for  months  to- 
gether in  the  journals,  and  provide  the  necessary  number  of 
paid  claqueurs  in  the  pit  on  the  evening  of  the  performance, 
in  order  to  ensure  a brilliant  reception  for  their  work  and 

8* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


116 


thereby  an  ultimate  rich  harvest  from  its  frequent  repetition. 
If  only  half  as  much  were  to  be  gained  by  an  opera  in  Ger- 
many, we  should  soon  be  equally  rich  in  good  composers  for 
the  theatre  as  we  now  are  in  instrumental  composers,  and 
we  should  have  no  further  need  to  introduce  foreign  pieces 
upon  our  stage,  for  the  most  part  unworthy  of  the  artistic 
culture  of  Germans. 

After  a residence  of  now  three  weeks  it  may  be  well 
imagined  that  we  have  repeatedly  visited  all  the  theatres.  I 
am  the  more  pleased  at  this  as  the  circle  of  my  acquaintance 
has  become  larger,  and  my  engagements  both  for  the  morning 
and  evening  have  so  much  increased  that  for  the  next  fort- 
night we  shall  be  able  to  devote  but  few  evenings  to  the 
theatre. 

Of  the  Theatre  frangais , the  Odeon,  and  the  four  lesser 
theatres,  I shall  say  nothing;  as  in  a musical  point  of  view 
they  offer  nothing  worthy  of  notice.  In  the  two  first  they 
give  nothing  but  entr'actes , and  in  the  four  others  almost  no- 
thing else  but  vaudevilles.  That  this  last  kind  of  theatrical 
pieces,  which,  thanks  to  Apollo  and  the  muses,  has  hitherto 
been  transplanted  into  no  other  country,  is  so  much  liked 
here  that  four  theatres  give  almost  nothing  else,  is  the  most 
striking  proof  that  the  French  are  not  musical;  for  the  sacred 
art  cannot  be  more  abused  anywhere  than  in  these  kind  of 
songs,  which  are  neither  sung  nor  spoken,  but  rattled  out  in 
intervals,  and  which  are  in  most  striking  anomaly  with  the 
melodies,  and  the  accompanying  harmony.  All  Frenchmen  of 
taste  are  agreed  that  the  vaudeville,  which  formerly  was  given 
in  one  theatre  only,  has  by  its  increase  deteriorated  more  and 
more  the  taste  for  true  music,  and  therefore  had  a prejudi- 
cial effect  upon  art  here.  We  have  been  to  each  of  these 
theatres  once,  to  hear  the  celebrated  comedians  Brunet , Po- 
thier  and  Perlet,  but  are  not  likely  to  go  a second  time,  for 
the  enjoyment  one  derives  from  the  wit  and  inexhaustible 
humour  of  those  performers  is  too  dearly  purchased  by  hear- 
ing such  wretched  music.  I was  particularly  struck  by  the 


Digitized  by  Google 


117 


skill  with  which  the  orchestra  in  those  theatres  follow  the 
singers,  who  do  not  in  the  least  adhere  to  the  time,  or  the 
notes.  But  this  is,  also,  their  chief  merit,  for  in  other  respects 
they  are  but  middling  musicians. 

We  have  been  frequently  to  the  Italian  opera,  and  much- 
enjoyed  ourselves  there.  Last  evening  we  saw  “Don  Juan”, 
there,  at  last,  after  it  had  been  frequently  announced.  The 
house  was  again,  as  upon  the  previous  performances,  filled  to 
overflowing,  and  hundreds  of  people  could  find  no  room,  even 
half  an  hour  before  the  curtain  drew  up.  I was  disposed 
to  believe  that  the  Parisians  had  at  length  understood  the 
classical  beauty  of  this  work,  and  that  they  flocked  always  in 
greater  numbers  to  enjoy  it;  but  I soon  relinquished  that 
opinion  when  I saw  that  the  finest  parts  of  the  opera  — the 
first  duet,  the  quartet,  the  grand  septet,  and  several  other 
things  — passed  off  without  making  any  impression  upon  them, 
and  two  subjects  only  received  a storm  of  applause,  which 
was  given  rather  to  the  singers  than  to  the  composer. 

These  two  subjects,  which  were  each  respectively  encored, 
were  the  duet  between  Don  Juan  and  Zerline:  “Reich-  mir 
die  Hand  mein  Leben”  etc.,  and  the  air  of  Don  Juan:  “Treibt 
der  Champagner”  etc.;  the  first,  because  Signor  Garcia , not 
having  depth  of  voice  sufficient,  transposes  it  to  B flat,  and  the 
last  even  a whole  tone  higher,  to  G.  Madame  Fodor-Mamville , 
who  well  knew  that  the  song -pieces  of  Zerlina  would  please 
the  Parisians  more  than  all  the  rest  of  the  opera,  chose  very 
wisely  that  part,  and  the  result  shewed  that  she  had  calcu- 
lated rightly.  What  would  she  care,  were  the  characters  of 
the  opera  wholly  transposed,  so  long  as  she  meets  with  a 
storm  of  applause.  The  real  connoisseur,  can  only  consent 
to  this  when  he  dismisses  from  his  mind  that  she  personates 
the  role  of  a peasant  girl,  and  when  he  wholly  sets  aside  the 
true  intention  of  the  subject  represented;  for  she  decorates 
the  simple  songs  of  her  part  with  a number  of  high-flown 
embellishments  which,  splendidly  though  she  may  execute  them, 
are  here  wholly  out  of  place;  first  because  they  do  not  at  all 


Digitized  by  Google 


118 


belong  to  Mozart's  music,  and  secondly,  because  they  are 
wholly  incompatible  with  the  character.  With  deduction  of 
this , it  certainly  affords  an  unusual  enjoyment  to  hear  this 
part,  which  in  Germany  is  usually  played  by  a third-rate 
singer,  impersonated  by  a first-rate  one,  and  so  distinguished  a 
vocalist.  Signor  Garcia , as  Don  Juan,  uses  also  too  much  orna- 
mentation. Where  this  is  only  moderately  admissable,  he  comes 
out  with  a fioritura  a yard  long ; and  these  are  most  out  of  place 
in  the  serenade,  where  the  supposed  mandoline  accompaniment 
forbids  the  most  simple  ornament;  Nevertheless  he  gives  full 
latitude  in  it  to  his  fancy,  and  in  order  to  do  this  more  con- 
veniently, he  takes  the  tempo  very  slow.  On  the  other  hand, 
however,  he  sings  his  song  incomparably  “Treibt  der  Cham- 
pagner”  etc.,  and  I acknowledge  that  I never  heard  that  air  so 
well  sung.  The  pliability  of  the  Italian  tongue  is  of  great 
use  to  him  in  this,  and  instead  of  losing  his  breath  in  it,  as 
is  usual  with  our  German  singers,  his  vocal  power  increases 
to  the  end. 

The  other  parts  are  sung  more  or  less  well,  but  none  of 
them  badly,  and  one  must  gratefully  acknowledge  that  each 
does  his  best  to  do  honour  to  the  work.  One  may  also  be 
very  satisfied  with  the  performance,  when  one  loses  sight  of 
the  claims  one  is  justified  in  making  upon  so  celebrated  a 
combination  of  artists.  But  to  a German  it  soon  becomes 
very  evident  that  these  singers,  who  execute  Italian  music 
only,  and  that  of  Rossini  especially,  in  the  highest  perfection, 
cannot  give  the  music  of  Mozart  with  the  same  excellence; 
the  difference  of  style  is  far  too  great.  The  effeminate,  sweet 
execution  which  accords  so  well  with  the  former,  obliterates 
too  much  the  energetic  character  which  distinguishes  Don 
Juan  above  all  other  of  Mozart's  operas. 

The  orchestra,  which  the  Parisians  always  pronounce  the 
first  in  the  world,  made  some  mistakes.  Twice  for  instance 
the  wind  instruments  were  very  obviously  at  fault , and  they 
wavered  several  times  so  much,  that  the  conductor  was  obliged 
to  beat  the  time  for  them.  I became  confirmed  but  the 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


119 


more  strongly  in  my  opinion,  that  a theatrical  orchestra,  how- 
ever excellent  it  may  be,  on  account  of  the  great  distance 
of  the  extreme  ends,  should  not  be  conducted  otherwise  than 
by  a continual  beating  of  the  time,  and,  that  to  mark  the 
time  constantly  by  motions  of  the  body,  and  the  violin,  like 
Mr.  Grasset  does,  is  of  no  use.  In  other  respects  this  or- 
chestra is  justly  famed  for  the  discretion  with  which  it  accom- 
panies the  singer,  and  in  that  might  serve  as  a model  for  the 
other  Parisian  as  well  as  many  German  orchestras. 

The  choruses  are  also  excellent,  and  the  effect  particu- 
larly powerful  and  grand  at  the  concluding  allegro  of  the  first 
finale.  But  why  here,  as  well  as  almost  everywhere  else,  is 
this  allegro  taken  so  unreasonably  quick?  Do  then  the  con- 
ductors wholly  forget,  that  by  so  doing  they  decrease  instead 
of  increasing  the  power,  and  that  the  triplet  movement  of 
the  violins  which  must  first  give  life  and  motion  to  the  whole, 
cannot  be  brought  out  clearly  and  forcibly  in  a movement 
of  such  exaggerated  rapidity,  and  instead  of  hearing  the  living 
whole,  it  becomes  a mere  skeleton  sketch  without  fillings  in?  1 

When  one  hears  so  beautiful  a piece  of  music  lose  its 
effect  by  incorrectness  of  time , one  wishes  again  that  the 
marking  of  the  tempi  was  finally  and  universally  established 
either  on  MalzeVs  or  Weber's  method,  or  still  better  upon 
both  at  the  same  time.  But  then  of  course  orchestral  con- 
ductors must  follow  them  conscientiously,  and  not  as  now, 
follow  their  own  fancy  merely. 

THIRD  LETTER. 

Paris,  January  12.  1821. 

With  a mind  greatly  relieved,  I write  to  announce  to 
you,  my  dear  friend,  that  I have  made  my  public  d6but  and 
with  success.  It  is  always  a hazardous  undertaking  for  a for- 
eign violinist  to  make  a public  appearance  in  Paris,  as  the 
Parisians  are  possessed  with  the  notion  that  they  have  the 
finest  violinists  in  the  world,  and  consider  it  almost  in  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


120 


1 


light  of  arrogant  presumption  when  a foreign  considers  he 
has  talent  sufficient  to  challenge  a comparison  with  them. 

I may  therefore  well  be  a little  proud  of  the  brilliant 
reception  I met  with  the  day  before  yesterday,  and  the  more 
so  that,  with  the  exception  of  a dozen  persons,  the  auditory 
was  personally  unknown  to  me,  and  there  were  none  among 
them  who  had  been  admitted  with  free -tickets  in  purchase 
of  their  service  as  claqueurs . But  I had  prepared  myself  very 
carefully  for  the  occasion,  and  was  properly  supported  by  the 
careful  accompaniment  of  Mr.  Habeneck.  I was,  however, 
not  in  the  least  nervous,  which  is  sometimes  the  case  with 
me  when  I appear  for  the  first  time  in  a strange  country, 
and  which  occurred  to  me  the  year  before  in  London.  The 
reason  why  I did  not  feel  so  in  this  instance,  was  doubtless, 
that  here  I had  already  played  before  all  the  most  distin- 
guished musicians,  previous  to  my  appearing  in  public;  but 
in  London  eight  days  only  after  our  arrival,  without  having 
been  previously  heard  by  any  person,  I was  constrained  to  ap- 
pear at  the  philharmonic  concert. 

Before  I enter  into  any  details  of  the  concert,  I must 
first  relate  how  I came  to  give  it.  It  is  at  all  times  a te- 
dious business  to  make  arrangements  for  a concert  in  any 
town,  but  in  Paris,  which  is  so  extensive,  where  so  many 
theatres  are  daily  open,  where  there  is  so  much  competition 
and  so  many  obstacles  to  overcome,  it  is  indeed  a Herculean 
task.  I think  also  that  this  is  the  reason  why  so  many  ar- 
tists who  come  to  Paris,  decline  giving  a public  concert,  which, 
besides  being  attended  with  the  enormous  expense  of  nearly 
3000  francs,  is  always  an  undertaking  of  great  risk.  If  these 
matters  have  been  extremely  unpleasant  to  me  in  other  places, 
you  may  readily  imagine  how  I feared  to  attempt  them  here. 
In  order  to  get  over  the  difficulty,  I bethought  myself  of 
making  a proposition  to  the  directors  of  the  grand  opera,  to  di- 
vide with  me  the  expenses  and  the  receipts  of  an  evening 
entertainment  of  which  the  first  half  should  consist  of  a con- 
cert and  the  second  of  a ballet.  Contrary  to  the  expectation 


Digitized  by  Google 


121 


of  all  those  to  whom  I had  spoken  on  the  subject,  this  pro- 
position was  acceded  to. 

The  consent  of  the  minister  was  however  so  long  delayed, 
that  the  concert  could  not  be  announced  till  three  days  be- 
fore it  took  place,  and  although  the  house  was  well  filled,  yet 
I ascribe  to  this  delay  that  it  was  not  so  crowded  as  I had 
expected  so  novel  and,  from  its  novelty,  so  attractive  an  ar- 
rangement would  have  been  for  the  Parisians.  The  half  which 
came  to  my  share,  after  deduction  of  the  expenses,  was  there- 
fore, as  you  may  imagine,  not  very  considerable : but  as  I had 
not  calculated  upon  making  much  pecuniary  gain  in  Paris,  I 
do  not  regret  this  arrangement  at  all,  as  it  saved  me  an  im- 
mense deal  of  trouble,  and  yet  gave  me  an  opportunity  of 
making  my  appearance  in  public.  Of  my  own  compositions 
I gave:  the  overture  to  “Alruna,”  the  newest  violin  concerto, 
and  the  potpourri  on  the  duet  from  “Don  Juan.”  Between 
these  a cavatine  of  Rossini's  was  sung  by  Mademoiselle  Cinte , 
and  a duet,  also  of  the  same  master,  by  Messrs.  Bordogni  and 
Levasseur.  At  the  rehearsal  the  overture  was  repeated  three 
times,  and  in  the  evening  therefore,  although  it  did  not  go 
off  quite  so  well  as  the  last  time  at  the  rehearsal,  the  public 
nevertheless  could  not  refuse  their  applause  of  its  execution.  In 
the  concerto  , as  well  as  in  the  potpourri , some  of  the  wind 
instruments  failed  twice,  from  a negligence  in  observing  the 
pauses,  which  seems  somewhat  usual  with  the  French,  but 
fortunately  it  was  not  much  disparaged  by  it.  The  satisfaction 
of  the  audience  was  unmistakably  expressed  by  loud  applause 
and  cries  of  Bravo!  To-day,  however,  the  criticism  of  the  ma- 
jority of  the  journals  is  not  so  favourable.  I must  solve  this 
riddle  for  you.  Previous  to  every  first  appearance  in  public, 
whether  of  a foreigner  or  a native,  these  gentlemen  of  the 
press  are  accustomed  to  receive  a visit  from  him,  to  solicit 
a-  favourable  judgment,  and  to  present  them  most  obse- 
quiously with  a few  free  admission  tickets.  Foreign  artists, 
to  escape  these  unpleasant  visits,  sometimes  forward  their 
solicitations  in  writing  only , and  the  free  admissions  at 


Digitized  by 


Google 


122 


the  same  time;  or,  as  is  of  frequent  occurrence,  induce  some 
family  to  whom  they  have  brought  letters  of  introduction,  to  in- 
vite the  gentlemen  of  the  press  to  dinner,  when  a more  con- 
venient opportunity  is  offered  to  give  them  to  understand 
what  is  desirable  to  have  said  of  them  both  before  and  after 
the  concert.  This  may  perhaps  occur  now  and  then  in  Ger- 
many ; but  I do  not  think,  that  newspaper  critics  can  be  any- 
where so  venal  as  here.  I have  been  told  that  the  first  ar- 
tists of  the  Theatre  frangais,  Mile.  Mars,  and  even  Talma , pay 
annually  considerable  sums  to  the  journals,  in  order  to  keep 
those  gentlemen  constantly  in  good  humour,  and  that  the 
latter,  whenever  they  wish  to  extricate  themselves  from  any 
pecuniary  embarrassment,  find  no  method  so  sure  as  to  at- 
tack some  esteemed  artist  until  he  submits  to  a tribute  of 
money.  How  the  opinions  of  a press  that  are  so  purchasable, 
are  at  all  respected,  I cannot  understand.  Suffice  however  to 
say,  I did 'not  pay  any  of  these  supplicatory  visits,  for  I con- 
sidered them  unworthy  of  a German  artist,  and  thought  that 
the  worst  that  could  happen  would  be,  that  the  journalists 
would  not  take  any  notice  at  all  of  my  concert.  But  as  these 
have  each  a free  pass  to  every  performance  at  the  grand  opera, 
I found  I was  mistaken.  They  all  speak  of  it;  some  with 
unqualified  praise,  but  the  majority  with  a But \ by  which  the 
praise  is  more  than  sufficiently  diminished.  In  all  these  no- 
tices , however , French  vanity  speaks  with  the  utmost  self- 
assurance.  They  all  begin  by  extolling  their  own  artists,  and 
their  artistic  culture,  above  all  other  nations ; they  think  that 
the  country  that  produced  Messrs.  Baillot , Lafont  and  Habenecky 
need  envy  no  other  its  violinists;  and  whenever  the  play  of 
a foreigner  has  been  received  here  with  enthusiasm,  it  is  nothing 
more  than  a proof  of  the  great  hospitality  which  the  French 
in  particular  shew  towards  foreigners.  Apart  from  this 
vanity  the  notices  are  very  contradictory:  The  “Quotidienne” 
says,  for  instance:  “Mr.  Spohr  aborde,  avec  une  incroyable 
audace,  les  plus  grandes  difficultes,  et  Ton  ne  sait  ce  qui 
6tonne  le  plus,  ou  son  audace  ou  la  surety  avec  laquelle  il 


Digitized  by  foozle 


153 


execute  ces  difficult^.”  In  the  “Journal  des  D6bats,”  on  the 
other  hand:  “Le  concert  execute  par  Mr.  Spohr  n’est  point 
surcharge  de  difficultes,”  etc.  These  gentlemen  differ  also  in 
opinion  respecting  the  merits  or  demerits  of  my  compo- 
sitions. The  majority  think  them  good,  but  without  saying 
why;  but  “Le  Courier  des  Spectacles,”  which  altogether  6peaks 
most  disparagingly  of  me,  says:  “C’est  une  espece  de  pacotille 
d’harmonie  et  d’enharmonie  germaniques  que  Mr.  Spohr  ap- 
porte , en  contrebande , de  je  ne  sale  quelle  contr^e  d’Alle- 
magne.”  But  Rossini  is  his  man,  of  whom  he  says  further 
on:  “Cet  Orphee  moderne  a defraye  de  chant  le  concert  de 
Mr.  Spohr , et  il  lui  suffit  pour  cela  de  prater  une  petite  aria 
et  un  petit  duo  bouffo.”  But  as  a violinist  I found  more 
grace  in  his  eyes;  he  says  for  instance:  “Mr.  Spohr  comme 
executant  est  un  homme  de  m6rite;  il  a deux  qualites  rares 
et  pr^cieuses,  la  puret6  et  la  ju6tesse,”  but  then  winds  up  his 
phrase  like  a true  Frenchman : “s’il  reste  quelque  temps  a Paris, 
il  pourra  perfectionner  son  gofit  et  retourner  ensuite  former 
celui  des  bons  Allemands.”  If  the  good  man  only  knew  what  the 
“bons  Allemands”  think  of  the  musical  taste  of  the  French?! 

This  ridiculous  vanity  in  the  Parisians  is  shewn  also  in 
their  conversation.  When  one  or  other  of  their  musicians 
plays  anything,  they  immediately  ask:  “Well,  can  you  boast 
of  anything  like  that  in  Germany?”  Or  when  they  introduce 
to  you  one  of  their  distinguished  artists,  they  do  not  call  him 
the  first  in  Paris,  but  at  once  the  first  in  the  world,  although 
no  nation  knows  less  what  other  countries  possess,  than  they  do, 
in  their  — for  their  vanity’s  sake  most  fortunate  — ignorance. 

You  are  doubtless  astonished  that  I have  as  yet  said  no- 
thing of  the  music  of  the  royal  chapel;  but  I delayed  doing 
so  intentionally,  until  I had  first  heard  some  of  Cherubini’s 
masses.  Lesueur  and  Cherubini , the  two  directors  of  the  music 
of  the  royal  chapel,  assume  the  duties  of  their  office  every 
three  months  alternately;  our  arrival  took  place  during  the 
time  of  Lesueur’s  directorship,  and  Cherubini's  did  not  begin 
till  the  first  of  January.  But  the  musical  directors  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


124 


royal  chapel  do  not  conduct  the  music  themselves,  and  pre- 
side. only  in  their  court  uniform  at  the  head  of  the  vocal 
personnel,  without  taking  any  active  part  in  the  performance. 
The  director  de  facto  is  Plantade;  Kreutzer  leading  player 
of  the  first  violin,  and  Baillot  of  the  second.  The  orchestra 
is  composed  of  the  first  artists  in  Paris,  the  chorus  is  power- 
ful and  good.  Every  mass  is  rehearsed  once  or  twice,  and 
under  Plantade' s sure  and  spirited  direction,  every  thing  goes 
exceedingly  well. 

Although  previously  prepared  by  Mr.  Sievers’  account,  I 
was  very  far  from  expecting  to  hear  music  here  of  the 
style  we  call  church-music  in  Germany;  yet  I was  greatly 
taken  by  surprise  by  the  brilliant  theatrical  style  of  a mass 
b y PUgntade,  which  I heard  on  my  first  visit  to  the  chapel 
on  the  17th  of  last  month.  There  is  not  the  least  trace  of 
the  ecclesiastical  style,  not  a vestige  of  the  canonical  manage- 
ment of  the  voices,  and  still  less  of  a fugue.  But  apart 
from  this , there  were  very  pretty  ideas,  and  much  good  in- 
strumentation, which  would  be  quite  in  place  in  a comic 
opera.  The  concluding  allegro,  probably  upon  the  words: 
Dona  nobis  pacem  (for  I am  not  certain,  since  the  French 
pronounce  Latin  in  a manner  very  unintelligible  to  a German 
ear)  was  so  completely  in  the  style  of  the  finale  to  an  opera 
(like  those  usually  with  three  or  four  times  increased  tempo) 
that  at  the  end,  forgetting  completely  where  I was,  I expected 
to  see  the  curtain  fall,  and  to  hear  the  public  applaud. 

At  midnight,  on  the  24th  December,  we  heard  a so- 
called  “ Messe  de  minuit”  of  Lesneur’s  composition.  First  of 
all  we  were  obliged  to  endure  a great  trial  of  our  patience, 
in  which  during  two  somewhat  tedious  hours,  from  ten  to 
twelve  o’clock,  we  heard  nothing  but  psalms,  sung  off  in  the 
most  monotonous  manner,  and  interrupted  at  intervals  with 
barbarous  peals  of  organ-play.  At  length,  at  midnight,  the 
mass  began.  Again  the  same  frivolous  theatrical  style  as 
in  that  of  Plantade , but  which  at  the  solemn  midnight  hour 
wa6  still  more  insufferable.  But  what  most  surprised  me, 


Digitized  by  Google 


125 


particularly  from  Lesueur,  who  is  reputed  here  a first-rate 
harmonist,  and  was  educated,  if  I am  not  mistaken,  for  a 
teacher  of  harmony  at  the  Conservatoire , there  was  not  even 
a four-part  management  of  the  voices!  Though  at  times  it 
may  be  effective  in  an  opera,  when  writing  only  a two-part 
vocal  distribution,  to  let  the  soprani  go  in  octaves  with  the 
tenors,  and  the  alti  with  the  bass,  partly  with  a view  to 
facilitate  the  execution  of  the  generally  bad  theatrical 
choruses,  and  partly  to  obtain  by  that  means  more  material 
power;  yet  to  me  it  seems  quite  barbarous  to  introduce  this 
in  the  church,  and  I should  therefore  like  to  know  what 
Mr.  Lesueur , who  must  certainly  be  an  artist  of  reflective 
powers,  means  by  it.  In  the  place  of  the  offertory,  variations 
by  Nadermann  for  the  harp,  horn  and  violoncello  were  thrust 
in,  executed  by  the  composer  and  Mrs.  Dauprat  and  Baudiot. 
You  who  know,  that  in  Germany  a serious  symphony  even 
appeared  to  me  too  mundane  at  this  part,  may  therefore 
readily  imagine  what  an  unpleasant  impression  these  frivolous, 
French  variations  on  the  harp  must  have  made  upon  me  in 
a mass  at  midnight;  and  yet  I saw  the  people  present  in 
earnest  prayer.  How  is  it  possible  for  them  to  feel  a reli- 
gious sentiment  with  such  trivial  music!  This  must  be  either 
a matter  of  no  importance  to  them,  or  they  know  how  to 
close  their  ears  effectually;  otherwise,  like  myself,  they  would 
of  a certainty  be  reminded  of  the  ballet  at  the  grand  opera, 
in  which  those  three  instruments  are  heard  in  a like  manner 
in  the  most  voluptuous  dances.  Although  the  harp  in  ancient 
times  was  the  favorite  instrument  of  a pious  king,  it  should 
for  all  that  be  banished  from  the  church,  because  it  is  wholly 
unfit  for  the  severe  style  which  is  the  only  one  suitable  for 
that  edifice. 

But  will  you  believe  it,  when  I assure  you  that  even  the 
worthy  master  Cherubini  himself,  has  allowed  himself  to  be  led 
away  by  this  bad  example,  and  his  masses  exhibit  in  many 
places  a theatrical  style.  It  is  true  that  he  makes  amends 
for  it  in  those  places  with  superior  music,  full  of  effect; 


Digitized  by 


Google 


126  — 


bat  who  can  enjoy  it,  if  he  cannot  wholly  target  the  place  in 
which  he  hears  it? 

It  would  be  less  regrettable  that  Cherubini  also  should 
deviate  from  the  true  ecclesiastical  style,  if  in  some  individual 
parts  he  did  not  shew  in  what  a dignified  manner  he  can 
move  in  it.  Several  separate  subjects  in  his  masses  — particu- 
larly the  scientifically  conducted  fugues,  and  above  all  his 
Pater  noster  up  to  the  profane  conclusion  — afford  the  grand- 
est proofs  of  this.  But  when  one  has  once  overcome  the  in- 
clination to  feel  annoyed  at  this  frequent,  extremely  digres- 
sive style,  one  feels  then  the  highest  enjoyment  of  art.  By 
richness  of  invention,  well-chosen,  and  frequently  quite  novel 
sequences  of  harmony,  and  a sagacious  use  of  the  material 
resources  of  art,  directed  by  the  experience  of  many  years, 
he  knows  how  to  produce  such  powerful  effects,  that,  carried 
away  by  them  in  spite  of  oneself,  one  soon  forgets  all  pe- 
dantic cavil  to  give  oneself  wholly  up  to  one’s  feelings,  and 
to  enjoyment.  What  would  not  this  man  have  contributed 
to  art,  if  instead  of  writing  for  Frenchmen,  he  had  always 
written  for  Germans!  — 

FOURTH  LETTER. 

Parts,  January  30.  1821. 

The  two  months  which  I had  allotted  to  our  stay  in 
Paris  are  drawing  to  a close.  As  I do  not  know  whether 
circumstances  may  even  permit  us  to  come  here  again,  we 
are  exerting  ourselves  to  find  all  the  remarkable  things  we 
have  not  yet  seen,  and  make  daily  excursions  in  Paris  and 
into  its  environs.  In  order  to  devote  my  time  wholly  to  this, 
I have  given  up  the  idea  I had  conceived  of  giving  another 
soiree  before  our  departure,  and  for  which  I had  already 
made  some  arrangements.  The  fortnight  which  I should  have 
been  obliged  to  devote  solely  to  that  object,  I can  now  there- 
fore pass  more1  pleasantly,  and  in  greater  freedom.  I gave 
up  with  much  more  repugnance  my  project  to  give  a second 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


127 


public  concert,  since,  from  the  reception  given  to  the  first,  I 
had  good  ground  to  expect  a successful  result.  But  during 
this  month  there  was  not  a day  to  be  found  favorable  for  such 
a purpose;  for  on  a week  day  the  administration  will  not  give 
up  the  theatre,  as  there  is  either  a grand  or  an  Italian  opera, 
and  of  the  three  yet  remaining  Sundays,  the  first  was  too 
near,  the  second,  as  the  anniversary  of  the  death  of  Louis  XVI., 
not  to  be  had,  and  the  third,  already  pre-engaged  by  Mr. 
La/ont  for  a concert.  To  extend  our  stay  over  the  middle 
of  next  month,  we  have  no  desire,  for  we  are  heartily  tired  of 
the  noisy  life  and  ceaseless  night-disturbance  here,  and  ardently 
long  for  a quiet  place  of  residence. 

On  the  other  hand  I have  latterly  played  more  frequently 
at  private  parties,  and  seen  with  pleasure  that  my  com- 
positions, upon  every  repetition,  have  been  received  with 
greater  enthusiasm,  especially  by  musicians.  This  has  been 
particularly  the  case  with  a new  quintet  for  pianoforte,  flute, 
clarinet,  horn  and  bassoon,  which  I have  written  for  my 
wife,  and  in  which,  since  by  the  advice  of  the  physician,  she 
has  abandoned  the  harp,  she  has  appeared  several  times.  The 
chief  object  of  my  coming  here,  to  make  myself  personally 
known  to  the  most  distinguished  artists  here,  and  to  become 
more  nearly  acquainted  with  them,  I have  thus  fully  effected; 
and  I cannot  speak  sufficiently  in  praise  of  the  sympathy  and 
kindness  which  the  greater  part  of  them  have  evinced  towards 
me.  They  repeatedly  endeavoured  to  persuade  me  to  make 
a longer  stay,  and  should  I feel  disposed  to  give  a second 
concert,  they  would  not  only  take  all  the  trouble  of  the  ar- 
rangements for  it  off  my  hands,  but  promised  to  get  together 
for  me  the  best  orchestra  in  Paris,  without  the  cost  to  me  of 
a single  sou.  Although  I am  not  likely  to  avail  myself  of  this 
offer,  yet  it  was  very  gratifying  to  me. 

Another  no  less  important  object  of  my  coming  here  has 
also  been  achieved;  I have  had  opportunities  of  hearing  the  most 
celebrated  violinists  of,  and  at  present  in  Paris.  Baillot  gave 
a soiree  at  his  house  for  me,  at  my  request;  I heard  La/ont 


Digitized  by 


Google 


128 


at  his  own  concert;  and  the  younger  Kreuteer  and  Habeneck 
at  morning  concerts  which  were  arranged  expressly  for  the 
purpose.  Should  you  wish  to  know  which  of  these  four  Violin- 
ists has  best  pleased  me,  then  without  hesitation,  in  point 
of  execution,  I say,  Lafont.  In  his  play  he  combines  beauty 
of  tone,  the  greatest  purity,  power,  and  grace;  and  he  would 
be  a perfect  violinist,  if,  with  these  qualifications,  he  pos- 
sessed depth  of  feeling,  and  had  not  accustomed  himself  to 
the  habit  peculiar  to  the  French  school,  of  laying  too  much 
stress  upon  the  last  note  of  a phrase.  But  feeling,  without 
which  a man  can  neither  conceive  nor  execute  a good 
adagio,  appears  with  him,  as  with  almost  all  Frenchmen,  to 
be  wholly  wanting ; for  although  he  dresses  up  his  slow  move- 
ments with  many  elegant  and  pretty  ornaments,  yet  he  still 
remains  somewhat  cold  The  adagio  appears  altogether  to 
be  considered  here,  both  by  artists  and  the  public,  as  the 
least  important  part  of  a concerto,  and  is  only  retained  perhaps 
because  it  separates  both  the  quick  subjects  and  increases 
their  effect. 

To  this  indifference  for  it  — as  indeed  the  general  insensibi- 
lity of  the  French  for  everything  that  works  upon  the  feelings  — 
I ascribe  also,  that  my  adagio  and  the  manner  in  which  I 
played,  made  less  impression  here  than  the  brilliant  allegro 
subjects.  Accustomed  to  the  special  applause  which  my 
manner  of  playing  it  had  received  from  Germans,  Italians, 
Dutch,  and  English,  I at  first  felt  hurt  to  see  it  thought  so 
little  of  by  the  French.  But  since  I have  observed  how 
seldom  their  artists  give  them  an  earnest  adagio,  and  how  little 
their  taste  for  it  is  awakened , I became  pacified  on  that 
subject.  The  practice  of  giving  emphasis  to  the  last  note  of 
a period,  by  an  increased  pressure  and  a rapid  upward  stroke 
of  the  bow,  even  when  that  note  falls  on  a part  where  the 
time  is  bad,  is  more  or  less  common  to  all  French  violinists, 
but  with  none  so  prominent  as  Lafont  To  me  it  is  incom- 
prehensible how  this  unnatural  accentuation  has  arisen,  which 
sounds  exactly  as  though  a speaker  endeavoured  to  intonate 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


129 


the  short  final  syllable  of  a word  with  particular  force.  If 
when  executing  a musical  piece  the  cantabile  of  the  human 
voice  had  always  been  kept  in  view  as  model  (which  in  my 
opinion  should  be  doue  by  every  instrumentalist)  such  errors 
would  never  have  become  confirmed  habits.  But  the  Parisians 
are  so  accustomed  to  this  unnatural  custom,  that  a foreigner 
who  does  not  play  in  the  same  bizzarre  manner,  appears  to 
them  much  too  plain,  or,  as  Mr.  Sievers  expresses  it,  “much  too 
straightforward.” 

That  La/ont’s  excellence  restricts  itself  always  to  but 
a few  pieces  at  once,  and  that  he  practises  the  same  con- 
certo by  the  year  together  before  he  plays  it  in  public,  is 
well  known.  Since  I have  heard  the  perfect  execution  which 
he  attains  by  this  means,  I certainly  will  not  cavil  with  this 
application  of  all  his  powers  to  the  one  Object;  but  I could 
not  imitate  him,  and  cannot  even  understand  how  one  can 
bring  one’s-self  to  practise  the  same  piece  of  music  for  four 
or  five  hours  daily,  but  still  less  how  it  is  to  be  done  without 
eventually  losing  every  vestige  of  real  art,  in  such  a mechan- 
ical mode  of  proceeding. 

Baillot  is,  in  the  technical  scope  of  his  play,  almost  as 
perfect,  and  his  diversity  of  manner,  shews  that  he  is  so, 
without  resorting  to  the  same  desperate  means.  Besides  his 
own  compositions , he  plays  almost  all  those  of  ancient  and 
modern  times.  On  one  and  the  same  evening  he  gave  us  a 
quintet  of  Bocherini,  a quartet  of  Haydn,  and  three  of  his  own 
compositions  — a concerto,  an  air  varie,  and  a rondo.  He  played 
all  these  things  with  the  most  perfect  purity,  and  with  the 
expression  which  is  peculiar  to  his  manner.  His  expression, 
nevertheless,  seemed  to  me  more  artificial  than  natural,  and  in- 
deed his  whole  execution,  from  the  too  salient  evidence  of  the 
means  by  which  he  gives  that  expression,  has  the  appearance 
of  mannerism.  His  bow-stroke  is  skilful,  and  rich  in  shades 
of  expression,  but  not  so  free  as  Lafonfs,  and  therefore  his 
tone  is  not  so  beautiful  as  that  of  the  latter,  and  the  mechan- 
cali  process  of  the  up  and  down  stroke  of  the  bow  is  too 

8POHB,  Autobiography.  II.  Q 


Digitized  by 


Google 


130 


audible.  His  compositions  are  distinguished  above  almost  all  those 
of  any  other  Parisian  violinist  by  their  correctness;  neither  can 
they  be  denied  a certain  originality;  but  being  somewhat 
artificial,  mannered,  and  out  of  date  in  style,  the  hearer  re- 
mains cold  and  without  a sense  of  emotion.  You  know  that 
he  frequently  plays  and  takes  great  pleasure  in  Boccherini's 
quintets.  I was  desirous  of  hearing  him  in  these  quintets,  with 
about  a dozen  of  which  I am  acquainted,  in  order  to  see 
whether  from  the  manner  in  which  he  executes  them  he  could 
succeed  in  making  one  forget  the  poverty  of  the  compositions. 
But  well  as  they  were  given  by  him,  the  frequent  childish- 
ness of  the  melodies,  and  the  poverty  of  the  harmonies  (almost 
always  three-voiced  only)  were  no  less  unpleasing  to  me,  than 
in  all  those  I had  heard  before.  One  can  hardly  understand 
how  a cultivated  ffrtist  like  Baillot , to  whom  our  treasures 
in  compositions  of  this  kind  are  known,  can  bring  himself  to 
play  those  quintets  still,  whose  worth  consists  only  in  the  re- 
gard had  to  the  period  and  circumstances  under  which  they 
were  written.  But  that  they  are  here  listened  to  with  as 
much  pleasure  as  a quintet  of  Mozart,  is  another  proof  that 
Parisians  cannot  distinguish  the  good  from  the  bad,  and  are 
at  least  half  a century  behind  in  art. 

I heard  Habeneek  play  two  airs  varies  of  his  composition. 
He  is  a brilliant  violinist  and  plays  much  with  great  rapidity 
and  ease.  His  tone  and  his  bow-stroke  are  somewhat  coarse. 

Krcutzer  junior,  the  brother  and  pupil  of  the  elder,  played 
to  me  a new,  very  brilliant  and  graceful  trio  of  his  brother’s 
composition.  The  manner  in  which  he  executed  it  reminded 
me  somewhat  of  the  style  of  the  elder  one,  and  satisfied  me 
that  they  are  the  purest  players  of  all  the  Parisian  violinists. 
Young  Kreutze r is  wanting  in  physical  power,  he  is  some- 
what ill,  and  dace  not  play  sometimes  for  months  together. 
His  tone  therefore  is  weak,  but  in  other  respects  his  play  is 
pure,  spirited  and  full  of  expression. 

Two  days  ago  I heard  two  more  quite  new  quintets  of 
Beicha , which  he  wrote  for  the  morning-concerts  of  the  five 


Digitized  by  foozle 


131 


previously  named  artists.  They  were  played  at  a rehearsal,, 
which  appears  to  me  to  have  been  given  solely  for  the  purpose 
of  fishing  for  more  subscribers  to  the  morning-concerts, 
among  the  numerous  persons  who  were  invited.  At  least  a 
list  of  them  was  handed  round.  It  is  sad  to  see  what  means 
artists  here  are  obliged  to  resort  to,  in  order  to  procure  sup- 
port for  their  undertakings.  While  the  Parisians  press  eagerly 
forward  to  every  sensual  enjoyment,  they  must  be  almost 
dragged  to  intellectual  ones.  — I found  the  composition  of 
these  two  new  quintets,  like  those  I had  previously  heard  at 
Kreutzer's,  rich  in  interesting  sequences  of  harmony,  correct 
throughout  in  the  management  of  the  voices,  and  full  of  effect 
in  the  use  made  of  the  tone  and  character  of  the  different 
wind-instruments,  but  on  the  other  hand,  frequently  defective 
in  the  form.  Mr.  Reicha  is  not  economical  enough  of  his 
ideas,  and  at  the  very  commencement  of  his  pieces  he  fre- 
quently gives  from  four  to  five  themes,  each  of  which  concludes 
in  the  tonic.  Were  he  less  rich,  he  would  be  richer.  His 
periods  also  are  frequently  badly  connected  and  sound  as. 
though  he  had  written  one  yesterday  and  the  other  to- 
day. Yet  the  minuets  and  scherzi,  as  short  pieces,  are  less 
open  to  this  objection,  and  some  of  them  are  real  master- 
pieces in  form  and  contents.  A German  soundness  of  science 
and  capacity  are  the  greatest  ornaments  of  this  master.  The 
execution  in  the  rapid  subjects  was  again  wonderfully  cor- 
rect, but  somewhat  less  so  in  the  slow  ones. 

I do  not  think  I have  yet  spoken  to  you  of  the  Feydeau. 
We  have  been  less  frequently  to  that  theatre  than  to  the  other 
operatic  theatres,  because  it  so  happened  that  on  those  evenings 
when  we  were  at  liberty  pieces  were  generally  performed 
that  did  not  much  interest  us.  Yet  we  were  present  at  the 
first  representation  of  MehuVs  “Joseph,”  which,  after  a long 
repose  was  again  put  on  the  stage.  The  public  however,  did 
not  seem  very  grateful  for  this  to  the  directors  of  the  theatre, 
for  they  gave  it  but  a cold  reception.  In  support  of  my 
assertion  that  the  French  take  an  interest  only  in  the  piece, 

9* 


Digitized  by  Google 


132 


and  know  little  how  to  appreciate  the  excellence  of  the  music, 

I may  adduce,  that  the  tirades  in  the  dialogue  were  far  more 
applauded  than  the  song  parts.  The  singers  succeeded  in  obtain- 
ing applause  only  when , in  the  superabundance  of  an  arti- 
ficial feeling,  instead  of  singing,  they  began  to  sob.  At  the 
pieces  of  the  opera  — for  instance,  at  the  first  chorus  of  the 
brothers  — there  was  not  a hand  stirred.  Many  of  the  tempi 
were  taken  quite  different  from  those  in  Germany,  but  not  to 
the  advantage  of  the  music;  for  instance,  the  fine  morning- 
hymn  of  the  Israelites,  behind  the  scenes,  was  taken  so  quick, 
that  it  lost  all  its  solemnity.  A screaming  violin,  also,  that 
supported  the  soprani  was  far  too  prematurely  loud.  The 
orchestra  played  well,  and  was  particularly  remarkable  for  a 
delicate  piano. 

Moscheles  has  been  here  a month.  He  makes  a great 
sensation  with  his  extremely  brilliant  play,  and  wins  the  ad- 
miration both  of  artists  and  dilettanti,  the  former  by  his 
execution  of  his  richly  intellectual  compositions,  and  the  latter 
by  his  free  fantasias,  in  which,  as  far  as  his  Germanism  per- 
mits him,  he  accommodates  himself  to  the  Parisian  taste.  The 
brothers  Bohrer  have  also  returned  to-day  from  a tour  in  the 
provinces,  but  will  remain  here  a few  days  only,  and  then 
leave  on  a new  tour  via  Munich  to  Vienna.  I regret 
that  I shall  not  have  an  opportunity  of  hearing  these  artists, 
whom  I have  not  met  for  ten  years.  They  wanted  to  per- 
suade me  to  accompany  them  from  here  upon  a tour  in  the 
southern  provinces,  where  they  assure  me  some  money  is  to  be 
made.  But  I have  not  the  least  inclination  to  go.  The  bad 
orchestras  in  the  provincial  towns,  the  bad  taste  and  the  un-  • 
pleasant  negotiations  to  lessen  the  amount  to  be  given  up  to 
the  theatre  and  the  poor  of  the  towns,  would  make  a journey 
of  the  kind  too  disagreeable  to  me.  In  a few  days  we  shall 
return  to  Germany  by  way  of  Nancy  and  Strasbourg,  and  there- 
fore shall  soon  greet  you  again  in  dear  Fatherland. 

Till  then  farewell! 

* * 

* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


133 


To  these  letters  regarding  my  sojourn  in  Paris,  I have 
yet  to  add  some  few  things  from  recollection.  From  the  fre- 
quent opportunities  I had  of  playing  before  Cherubim  at 
private  parties,  I conceived  a very  ardent  desire  to  have  all 
my  quartets  and  quintets  so  far  as  I thought  them  worthy  of 
it,  heard  by  that  by  me  highly  esteemed  master,  and  to  in- 
troduce them  by  degrees  to  his  notice,  in  order  to  ask  his 
opinion  of  them.  But  in  this  I succeeded  with  very  few  only, 
for  when  Cherubim  had  heard  the  first  quartet  (it  was  Nr.  1 
of  the  Op.  45  written  at  Frankfort),  and  I was  on  the  point 
of  producing  a second,  he  protested  against  it,  and  said: 
“Your  music,  and  indeed  the  form  and  style  of  this  kind  of 
music,  is  yet  so  foreign  to  me,  that  I cannot  find  myself  im- 
mediately at  home  with  it,  nor  follow  it  properly;  I would 
therefore  much  prefer  that  you  repeated  the  quartet  you  have 
just  played ! ” I was  very  much  astonished  at  this  remark, 
and  did  not  understand  it  until  I afterwards  ascertained  that 
Cherubini  was  quite  unacquainted  with  the  German  master- 
pieces of  this  kind  of  Mozart  and  Bethoven  — and  at  the  utmost 
had  once  heard  a quartet  by  Haydn  at  Baillofs  soirees.  As 
the  other  persons  present  coincided  with  Cherubini's  wish,  I 
consented  the  more  readily,  as  in  the  first  execution  of  it, 
some  things  had  not  gone  altogether  well.  He  now  spoke 
very  favourably  of  my  composition,  praised  its  form,  its  the- 
matic working  out,  the  rich  change  in  the  harmonies,  and 
particularly  the  fugato  in  the  last  subject.  But  as  there  were 
still  many  things  not  quite  clear  to  him  in  the  music,  he 
begged  me  to  repeat  it  a second  time , when  we  should  next 
meet.  I hoped  he  would  think  nothing  more  about  it,  and 
therefore  at  the  next  music  party  brought  forward  another 
quartet.  Before  I could  begin,  however,  Cherubini  renewed 
his  request,  and  I was  therefore  obliged  to  play  the  same 
quartet  a third  time.  The  same  thing  occurred  also  with 
Nr.  2 of  Op.  45,  excepting  that  he  spoke  of  it  with  more 
decisive  praise , and  said  of  the  adagio : “It  is  the  finest  I 
ever  heard.”  He  was  equally  pleased  with  my  pianoforte 


Digitized  by 


Google 


134 


quintet  with  the  concerted  accompaniment  of  wind  instru- 
ments, and  I was  frequently  obliged  to  play  it  on  that  account. 
The  first  time  my  wife  played  the  piano  part;  hut  when 
Moscheles  subsequently  requested  permission  to  study  it  and 
to  play  it  once,  she  had  not  the  courage  to  play  it  any  more 
in  Paris,  after  him.  He  remained  therefore  in  possession,  and 
entered  more  and  more  into  the  spirit  of  the  composition.  He 
executed  the  two  allegro  subjects  especially  with  far  more 
energy  and  style,  which  certainly  greatly  increased  their  effect. 
As  the  wind  instruments  of  Reicha’s  quintet  were  excellent, 
I never  recollect  to  have  heard  that  quintet  so  perfectly  ren- 
dered as  then,  although  I have  heard  it  played  in  more  recent 
days  by  many  celebrated  pianoforte  virtuosi.  From  the  con- 
tinual repetition  of  my  quartets  in  Paris  I could  find  no  op- 
portunity of  giving  even  one  of  my  two  first  quintets  for  stringed 
instruments  which  had  been  some  time  written.  Nevertheless 
I found  for  them  a very  sympathetic  audience  at  Strasbourg, 
on  my  return  journy,  to  which  the  taste  for  quartet-music 
has  more  readily  penetrated  from  its  contiguity  to  Germany. 
The  quintet  in  G major,  with  the  half  melancholy  half  merry 
finale,  became  soon  an  especial  favorite  with  the  friends  of 
music  there,  and  at  their  request  formed  the  finale  of  every 
quartet-party.  In  Carlsruhe,  where  on  a former  visit  I had 
already  played  quartets  frequently,  particularly  in  the  house 
of  that  lover  of  art  Mr.  von  Eichthal , my  stay  this  time  was 
very  much  saddened  by  finding  the  friend  of  my  youth  Feska 
dangerously  ill : he  shortly  afterwards  succumbed  to  his  incur- 
able malady. 


Returned  to  Gandersheim,  I resumed  again,  immediately, 
the  pleasant  active  life  of  the  previous  summer.  Edward 
Grnnd  soon  arrived  also , and  devoted  himself  with  his 
usual  zeal  both  to  his  own  improvement  and  to  the  in- 
struction of  my  children.  I myself  first  began  with  the  com- 
position of  the  already  mentioned  ten-voiced  vocal  mass,  but 


Digitized  by  foozle 


135 


I was  soon  obliged  to  give  it  up  for  a short  time.  I re- 
ceived a letter  from  my  old  friend  Hermstedt , in  which  he 
invited  me  on  the  part  of  the  directors  of  the  baths  of  Alexis- 
bad  in  the  Harz , to  give  a concert  in  the  course  of  the  ap- 
proaching season.  He  offered  at  the  same  time  to  make  all 
the  necessary  arrangements  beforehand,  so  that  I should  not 
require  to  stay  there  longer  than  a few  days.  He  also  urgently 
pressed  me  to  write  a new  clarinet  concerto  for  him,  and  pro- 
mised if  he  received  it  sufficiently  early,  to  play  it  for  the  first 
time  at  the  Alexisbad  concert.  As  I liked  to  write  for  Herm- 
stedt, who  at  that  time  was  without  doubt  the  first  of  all 
living  clarinet  virtuosi , I consented  to  his  proposal,  and  set 
to  work  immediately.  After  despatching  to  him  the  new  con- 
certo F minor  (the  third  for  clarinet),  I wrote  for  myself  and 
wife  another  pot-pourri  concerted  for  violin  and  pianoforte 
on  two  themes  from  the  “Opferfest”  — published  afterwards  as 
Op.  56,  for  which  I worked  out  anew  a former  composition 
for  clarinet  with  orchestral  accompaniment  which  I had  written 
in  1812  for  Hermstedt,  for  the  celebration  of  Napoleon’s  birth- 
day , in  Erfurt.  I considered  it  one  of  my  most  successful 
pieces,  and  wished  by  this  new  elaboration  of  it,  to  make  it 
more  generally  known.  It  may  be  readily  understood  that  in 
this  transfer  from  the  clarinet  and  orchestra  to  the  violin  and 
pianoforte,  very  considerable  modifications  were  requisite,  and 
that  I could  adhere  chiefly  only  to  the  form  and  modulations 
of  the  previous  composition.  By  the  time  this  piece  of  music 
had  been  studied  by  us  in  the  usual  manner,  with  the  greatest 
care,  the  day  fixed  upon  for  our  departure  for  Alexisbad  ar- 
rived. Of  this  excursion  I have  now  but  very  faint  reminis- 
cences. I neither  know  what  we  played  at  the  concert,  nor 
how  the  new  clarinet  concerto  pleased,  and  the  less  so,  that 
since  that  time  I have  not  heard  it  again ; for  it  has  remained 
altogether  in  Hermstedt' s hands,  and  has  never  been  published. 
But  I recollect  very  distinctly  a natural  phenomenon  by  which 
our  concert  was  disturbed  and  for  some  time  interrupted,  as 
in  London  by  the  smashing  of  the  windows.  Just  as  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


136 


music  was  about  to  begin,  a storm,  which  had  threat- 
ened since  noon,  broke  out  with  such  violence,  that  what 
with  the  rolling  of  the  thunder  and  the  noise  of  the  rain  that 
poured  down  in  torrents,  nothing  could  have  been  heard.  In 
the  over-crowded  concert-room,  which  was  suffocatingly  hot,  the 
closely  packed  auditory  were  compelled  to  await  the  passing 
over  of  the  storm,  and  the  concert  could  not  be  commenced  until 
the  air  of  the  room  had  been  renewed  by  the  opening  of  the 
doors  and  windows.  Owing  to  this  the  concert  did  not  ter- 
minate till  complete  nightfall.  The  confusion  and  perplexity 
which  ensued  among  the  departing  audience  now  first  reached 
their  climax ; for  it  was  found  that  the  otherwise  very  modest 
rivulet  which  runs  through  the  valley  of  Alexisbad  had  become 
so  swollen,  and  had  torn  up  and  flooded  the  roads  to  such  an 
extent,  that  the  numerous  company  that  had  come  in  from 
the  neighbourhood  of  the  town  found  it  impossible  to  return 
home  in  the  darkness  of  night.  All  therefore  first  rushed  to 
the  dining-room  of  the  baths,  but  there  no  provision  had  been 
made  for  such  an  influx  of  guests.  As  soon  as  the  regular  vi- 
sitors of  the  baths  had  retired  to  their  apartments  previous  to 
sitting  down  to  dinner,  the  strangers  seized  upon  their  seats  at 
the  table,  and  upon  the  eatables  also,  so  that  when  the  for- 
mer returned  they  were  obliged  to  content  themselves  with 
what  they  could  lay  hold  of.  Upon  this  very  naturally  a good 
deel  of  ill-feeling  was  excited,  and  the  host  had  enough  to  do 
and  a hard  time  of  it  to  pacify  and  keep  the  people  in  bounds. 
Now,  furthermore,  it  was  found  that  to  pass  the  night  there 
were  neither  rooms  nor  beds  sufficient  for  their  accommodation, 
and  a great  number  of  the  strangers  were  nolens  volens  obliged 
to  lie  down  indiscriminately  beside  each  other  upon  a shake- 
down  of  straw.  Many  did  it  good  humouredly,  but  others  with 
ill-suppressed  curses.  For  the  unconcerned  spectator  it  was 
indeed  a highly  comical  and  amusing  scene. 

During  the  same  summer,  I received  an  similar  invitation 
to  go  to  Pyrmont  and  give  a concert  there.  I acquiesced,  and 
proceeded  thither  accompanied  by  my  wife  and  my  pupil 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


137 


Edward  Grand,  who  conducted  the  orchestra  and  very  much 
facilitated  my  solo-playing  by  practising  the  accompaniment 
beforehand,  which  alone  enabled  me  to  play  my  own  compo- 
sitions. Grand  had  in  truth  become  a first-rate  artist,  and  began 
now  to  make  musical  tours  with  much  success;  which  led  to 
his  appointment  as  director  of  the  court- orchestra  at  Mei- 
ningen,  which  office  he  now  still  (1853)  fills,  respected  by 
hi6  prince  and  by  the  members  of  the  orchestra,  and  zealously 
exerting  his  energies  to  the  advantage  of  art.  As  upon  his 
leaving  Gandersheim,  in  the  autumn  of  1821,  the  musical 
instruction  of  my  daughters  completely  ceased,  and  as  they 
gave  evidence  of  vocal  powers  that  appeared  worthy  of  a 
further  artistic  cultivation,  I determined  to  remove  to  Dresden 
with  my  family,  in  order  to  give  the  children  the  advantage 
of  the  instruction  of  a then  celebrated  teacher  of  vocal  music 
of  the  name  of  Miksch  in  that  city.  To  Emilia  I had  indeed, 
myself  already  begun  to  give  instruction  in  singing,  but  soon 
found  that  I had  neither  the  necessary  perseverance  and  pa- 
tience, and  that  it  drew  my  attention  too  much  from  my 
work  of  composition.  Besides  this,  also,  I determined  as  soon 
as  my  family  had  become  somewhat  settled  in  Dresden,  to 
proceed  alone  upon  some  short  artistic  tours  in  the  neigh- 
bourhood. I wrote  therefore  to  my  former  pupil  Mont  a Haupt- 
mann in  Dresden,  and  requested  him  to  treat  with  Mr.  Miksch 
or  my  behalf,  and  so  soon  as  he  should  agree,  to  hire  apart- 
ments for  me;  shortly  after  which  I received  a reply  in- 
forming me  that  all  my  wishes  had  been  carefully  complied 
with. 

My  mass  for  ten  voices  had  been  meanwhile  completed, 
and  I longed  very  much  to  hear  it.  As  on  my  journey  to 
Dresden  I contemplated  giving  a concert  in  Leipzic,  and  on 
that  account  should  be  obliged  to  make  a longer  stay  there,  I 
bethought  myself  of  getting  it  sung  during  the  time  I was 
there  by  the  grand  choral-society  of  that  town,  with  the 
Director  of  which  I was  acquainted.  I wrote  to  him  there- 
fore to  inquire  if  he  felt  disposed  to  have  the  work  practised 


Digitized  by  Google 


138 


beforehand,  and  as  he  replied  in  the  affirmative , I sent  the 
score  to  him  to  have  the  voice-parts  immediately  written  out. 

The  parting  from  Gandersheim  was  this  time  a very  sad 
one,  as  the  children  also,  to  whose  society  their  grandfather 
and  grandmother  had  become  so  much  accustomed,  were  to 
part  from  them,  and  I was  obliged  to  promise  to  return  the 
next  summer,  even  though  for  a short  visit  only. 

On  arriving  in  Leipzic,  one  of  my  first  visits  was  to  the 
Director  of  the  choral-society,  to  ascertain  something  about  my 
mass.  But  what  I learned  was  not  very  satisfactory.  The 
rehearsals  it  is  true  had  been  commenced;  but  the  work  had 
been  found  so  enormously  difficult,  and  was  so  imperfectly 
understood,  that  the  director  refused  decidedly  to  let  me  hear 
it.  At  my  urgent  request,  however,  a trial  was  made,  which 
went  very  badly,  and  as  I did  not  nearly  hear  the  effect  which 
I had  pictured  to  myself  during  the  inspiration  of  the  work, 
I concluded  that  I had  produced  a complete  failure.  After 
hearing  it  a few  more  times,  I resolved  to  make  some  alter- 
ations in  it,  in  order  to  facilitate  its  execution,  and  shortly 
after,  the  mass  was  published  by  Peters  as  Op.  54.  A long 
time  afterwards,  when  I had  almost  forgotten  it,  some  parts 
of  it  were  sung  to  me  by  the  Berlin  choral- academy  under 
Zelter's  direction.  These  had  been  so  well  studied,  were 
intonated  so  clearly,  and  had  so  imposing  an  effect  from  the 
combination  of  so  many  voices,  that  I now  became  fully  con- 
vinced that  the  work  could  be  performed,  and  conceived  the 
desire  to  have  it  studied  by  my  choral-society  in  Cassel.  This 
proved  successful,  as  I did  not  lose  my  patience  and  the  singers 
were  indefatigable,  and  the  entire  mass,  without  any  omissions, 
was  performed  in  November  1827  on  Saint  Cecilia’s  day.  The 
experience  I had  acquired  during  these  rehearsals  taught  me, 
however,  to  avoid  a too  great  abundance  of  modulations  and 
difficult  chords  in  succession. 

Arrived  in  Dresden,  we  were  conducted  by  Hauptmann  to 
the  lodgings  he  had  hired  for  us,  which  were  pleasantly  situated 
in  a quiet  part  of  the  town.  Both  my  eldest  girls  imme- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


139 


diately  began  their  singing-lessons  with  Mr.  Miksch  and  I then 
went  in  search  of  my  former  acquaintances  among  the  artists 
and  amateurs  of  music,  and,  foremost  of  all,  of  the  orchestra 
director  Carl  Maria  von  Weber.  He  received  me  in  a very 
cordial  manner,  and  by  degrees  introduced  me  into  all  the 
musical  circles,  where  I not  only  heard  much  good  music,  but 
had  the  opportunity  of  playing  my  own  chamber-music.  As  the 
musicians  who  accompanied  me  evinced  great  interest  in  my 
quartet-play,  this  induced  me,  with  their  assistance  to  give 
quartet  parties  every  week  at  my  house,  to  which  I invited 
the  most  ardent  lovers  of  music  in  the  town.  At  these  I 
brought  forward,  as  I could  not  succeed  in  doing  in  Paris,  all 
the  quartets  and  quintets  in  succession  which  I bad  written 
up  to  that  time,  and  as  I soon  got  to  the  end  of  them,  and 
they  met  with  great  approbation  from  all  hearers,  I was  en- 
couraged to  write  some  new  ones.  In  a short  time,  I finished 
two  (the  two  first  of  Op.  58),  and  I took  such  interest  in 
this  work,  as  well  as  in  the  whole  artistic  life  of  Dresden,  that 
I at  once  gave  up  my  contemplated  musical  tour,  and  deferred 
it  to  the  latter  end  of  the  winter. 

Meanwhile  Carl  Maria  von  Weber  had  succeeded  in  ob- 
taining the  permission  to  have  his  opera  of  uDer  Freischiitz” 
studied  in  Dresden,  after  it  had  met  with  such  brilliant  success 
in  Vienna  and  Berlin ; and  the  private  rehearsals  were  already 
begun.  As  up  to  that  time  I had  not  entertained  a very  high 
opinion  of  Weber's  talent  for  composition,  it  may  be  readily 
imagined  I was  not  a little  desirous  of  becoming  acquainted 
with  that  opera,  in  order  to  ascertain  thoroughly  by  what  it 
had  achieved  such  an  enthusiastic  admiration  in  the  two  ca- 
pitals of  Germany.  My  interest  in  it  was  increased  the  more 
from  my  having  worked  also  a few  years  before,  when  at 
Frankfort  on  the  Maine , upon  the  same  materials , from 
Appel's  book  of  apparitions,  for  an  opera;  and  only  abandoned 
the  composition  upon  accidentally  hearing  that  Weber  was 
already  engaged  upon  it.  The  nearer  acquaintance  with  the 
opera,  certainly  did  not  solve  for  me  the  riddle  of  its  enor- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


140 


mous  success;  and  I could  alone  account  for  it  by  Weber*s 
peculiar  gift  and  capacity  for  writing  for  the  understanding 
of  the  mass.  As  I very  well  knew  that  this  gift  had  been 
denied  me  by  nature,  it  is  difficult  for  me  to  explain  how  an 
unconquerable  impulse  should  have  led  me  nevertheless,  to 
attempt  dramatic  composition  anew.  But  so  it  was!  Scarcely 
had  I arrived  home,  than  I took  from  my  trunk,  a half-for- 
gotten  work  which  I had  begun  in  Paris.  On-  a tedious  rainy 
day  which  in  that  muddy  city  renders  it  impossible  to  go  out 
of  doors,  I asked  my  landlady  to  lend  me  a book  to  read. 
She  brought  me  an  old,  well-read  romance:  “La  Veuve  de 
Malabar.”  I found  its  interesting  matter  would  well  permit 
of  being  adapted  to  an  opera,  and  I purchased  it  of  her  for 
a few  sous,  in  order  to  make  trial  of  it.  While  in  Paris,  and 
during  the  journey  home  I turned  over  in  my  mind  the  most 
favourable  form  for  the  composition  of  the  opera,  and  began 
immediately  after  my  return  to  Gandersheim  to  make  the  cast 
of  a scene.  In  those  hours  when  I did  not  feel  disposed  to 
work  on  the  composition  of  the  mass,  I progressed  with  it, 
and  by  the  time  I removed  with  my  family  to  Dresden,  I had 
nearly  completed  it.  I now  reconsidered  and  worked  over 
anew  this  sketch  with  renewed  zeal,  decided  in  the  most  precise 
manner  everything  that  should  take  place  in  each  scene,  and 
then  looked  out  for  a poet  who  would  feel  disposed  to  write 
the  opera  according  to  this  plan.  Such  a person  I found  in 
Mr.  Edward  Gehe,  who  readily  entered  into  my  ideas.  In  this 
manner  originated  the  text  of  the  opera  “Jessonda.”  I was  just 
on  the  poiift  of  beginning  its  composition,  when  an  event  took 
place  that  took  off  my  attention  from  it  again  for  some  time. 

One  morning,  in  the  beginning  of  December,  Carl  Maria 
von  Weber , called  upon  me,  and  informed  me  that  he  had  just 
received  an  invitation  to  Cassel,  with  the  offer  of  the  appoint- 
ment of  conductor  of  the  orchestra  at  the  newly-built  court 
theatre  there,  but  had  decided  upon  declining  it,  as  he  was 
fully  satisfied  with  his  present  position.  Should  he,  however* 
find  me  disposed  to  apply  for  that  post,  he  would  in  his 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


141 


reply  to  the  letter,  direct  attention  to  me,  and  say  that  I was 
at  present  living  in  Dresden.  As  shortly  before  I had  heard 
from  a member  of  the  Gassel  orchestra  who  passed  through 
Gandersheim  much  of  the  magnificence  of  the  court  theatre 
there  and  of  the  love  of  art  of  the  elector  William  II.  who 
had  just  entered  upon  the  government,  I could  not  doubt  but 
that  I should  find  there  an  important  and  pleasant  sphere  of 
action.  I therefore  accepted  Weber's  offer  with  many  thanks, 
and  before  the  lapse  of  a week,  as  a result  of  his  reply,  I 
received  a letter  from  Mr.  Feige , director-general  of  the  Cassel 
court  theatre,  in  which  he  offered  me  on  the  part  of  the  elector 
the  appointment  of  master  of  the  court  orchestra,  and  I was 
requested  to  send  in  my  terms  of  acceptance  by  return  of  post. 
After  I had  consulted  with  Weber  and  my  wife,  I demanded: 
1)  the  appointment  for  life,  by  rescript,  at  a salary  of  2000 
Thalers;  2)  a leave  of  absence  of  from  6 to  8 weeks,  every 
year;  and  3)  the  assurance  that  the  artistic  direction  of  the 
opera  should  be  made  over  to  me  exclusively.  The  whole  of 
these  stipulations  were  agreed  to,  but  in  return  it  was  re- 
quired of  me  that  I should  enter  upon  my  post  at  the  latest 
on  the  commencement  of  the  new  year.  Overjoyed  as  we  were 
at  this  new  appointment,  particularly  Dorette , as  she  was 
thereby  certain  that  she  would  be  no  more  separated  from  her 
children  for  a long  time,  yet  we  were  not  altogether  satisfied 
at  having  to  leave  our  present  residence  so  soon,  where Emilia 
and  Ida  were  making  such  progress,  particularly  in  singing. 
We  had  besides  taken  our  Dresden  lodgings  up  to  Easter,  and 
a removal  in  the  middle  of  winter  was  altogether  very  un- 
pleasant. I therefore  proposed  that  I should  leave,  to  assume 
my  place  at  Gassel,  but  that  my  wife  and  the  children  should 
remain  in  Dresden  till  the  spring.  Painful  as  was  to  her  the 
separation  from  me  for  so  long  a time,  she  was  compelled  to 
admit  the  obvious  convenience  of  my  proposition.  As  the  new 
year  was  now  approaching,  I therefore  made  the  necessary 
preparations  for  my  departure,  and  urged  Gehe  to  work  upon 
the  matter  for  the  second  and  third  act  of  Jessonda,  with  all 


Digitized  by 


Google 


142 


possible  diligence,  while  1 took  the  first  act,  which  was  ready, 
with  me  to  Cassel. 

Meanwhile  another  new  and  startling  offer  was  made  to  me. 
Count  Salisch,  my  old  patron  in  Gotha,  wrote  word  to  me  that 
the  duchess  had  been  informed  I was  now  living  in  private 
at  Dresden,  and  she  was  therefore  desirous  to  know  whether 
1 might  not  be  disposed  to  resume  my  old  engagement,  which, 
since  the  recent  death  of  Andreas  Romberg,  was  again  vacant? 
Count  Salisch  added  furthermore  that  they  would  be  enabled 
to  grant  me  a considerable  increase  of  my  former  salary. 
Had  I not  already  accepted  the  offer  from  Cassel,  I might 
possibly  have  given  this  one  the  preference,  in  order  to  afford 
my  wife  the  pleasure  of  a reunion  with  her  mother  and  fa- 
mily by  a return  to  her  native  town.  But  the  choice  was  thus 
not  permitted  to  me,  and  I might  consider  this  rather  in  the 
light  of  a fortunate  circumstance,  as  my  sphere  of  action  in 
Gotha  would  have  been  a very  circumscribed  one,  in  comparison 
with  that  in  Cassel.  In  a few  years  also  I should  have  again 
been  left  without  a home,  for  the  duke,  and  his  successor  also, 
prince  Frederick , the  last  heir,  died  soon  after  each-other,  and 
the  state  was  divided  among  the  other  Saxon  duchies.  The  or- 
chestra was  then  pensioned  off,  and  as  I could  not  have  en- 
dured to  live  in  complete  idleness,  I should  have  soon  removed 
again  to  some  other  place. 

The  parting  from  my  wife  and  children,  although  for  a 
short  time  only,  was  nevertheless  a very  sad  one.  Dorette , who 
wept  bitterly,  could  alone  be  somewhat  comforted  by  my 
promise  to  write  every  week  and  inform  her  of  everything 
that  I was  doing.  In  Gotha,  when  on  passing  through  I paid 
a visit  to  my  mother-in-law,  I was  urgently  pressed  by  her 
and  the  other  relatives  of  my  wife,  as  also  by  the  members  of 
the  orchestra,  to  settle  there  once  more.  The  duchess,  also, 
to  whom  it  was  requisite  I should  pay  a visit,  as  she  had 
always  evinced  so  much  interest  and  kindness  towards  me, 
resorted  to  every  means  to  make  me  give  up  Cassel,  and  offered 
to  induce  her  brother  the  elector  of  Hesse  to  release  me 


Digitized  by 


Google 


143 


from  my  engagement.  But  as,  since  I had  left  Gotha,  and 
looked  about  me  in  the  world,  the  sphere  of  action  in  that  place 
seemed  to  me  too  humble  and  restricted,  I withstood  every 
solicitation  and  made  a speedy  departure. 

I had  scarcely  arrived  in  Cassel  (New  Year’s  Day  1822), 
than  I was  summoned  to  an  interview  with  the  elector , who 
received  me  with  great  kindness,  and  said  many  flattering  things 
to  me.  Among  other  subjects  he  expressed  the  hope  to  see 
his  opera  become  by  my  exertions  one  of  the  most  celebrated 
of  Germany,  and  requested  me  to  make  such  propositions  as 
were  best  calculated  to  effect  that  object.  In  order  to  do  that 
I requested  a fortnight’s  time,  so  that  I might  first  make  my- 
self well  acquainted  with  the  means  and  materials  at  hand. 
After  I had  been  present  at  a few  rehearsals  and  performances, 
I then  assumed  my  new  post  with  the  direction  of  Winters 
“Opferfest.”  As  the  previous  director  of  music,  Benson , had 
from  all  accounts,  been  so  much  wanting  in  authority,  that  the 
singers  and  the  orchestra  did  not  hesitate  to  oppose  his 
regulations,  which  indeed  led  to  his  dismissal,  I considered  it 
immediately  necessary  to  somewhat  tighten  the  reins  of  disci- 
pline. I therefore  became  very  strict  at  the  rehearsals  of  the 
“Opferfest,”  but  did  not  find  the  least  disposition  to  resist  either 
in  the  singers,  or  in  the  orchestra;  and  already  in  the  first 
opera  which  I directed,  succeeded  in  producing  a better  en- 
semble than  they  had  hitherto  been  accustomed  to.  This  was 
also  generally  aknowledged,  and  immediately  procured  for  me 
the  confidence  of  the  elector,  as  also  of  the  whole  theatrical 
personnel.  As  I already  found  some  excellent  voices  among 
the  singers,  viz.  the  first  tenor  Gerstacker  and  the  prima 
donna  demoiselle  Dietrich , and  ascertained  that  Feige  the 
director  of  the  theatre  was  negotiating  for  the  engagement  of 
several  other  eminent  artists,  I limited  for  the  present  the 
proposals  which  I now  sent  in  to  the  mere  increase  and  im- 
provement of  the  personnel  of  the  chorus  and  orchestra.  The 
latter  consisted  in  part  of  civilian  musicians , and  partly  of 
musicians  belonging  to  the  band  of  the  body-guard,  among 


Digitized  by 


Google 


144 


whom  were  several  of  great  excellence.  The  elector  had  granted 
to  the  latter  as  well  as  to  the  civilian  musicians  a rescript 
of  engagement  for  life,  so  that  I could  no  longer  carry  out  my 
notion  of  constituting  the  orchestra  solely  of  civilian  musicians, 
in  order  to  avoid  any  collision  between  the  military  and  the 
orchestral  duties  of  the  non-civilians.  I hoped  at  least,  however, 
to  get  rid  of  the  objectionable  regulations  which  obliged  the 
military  musicians  to  appear  in  full  uniform,  which  upon  my 
first  visit  to  the  theatre  was  a great  eye-sore  to  me.  But 
neither  did  I succeed  in  this,  for  upon  my  representing  it  to 
the  elector  he  replied,  “It  is  contrary  to  military  etiquette 
for  a soldier  to  appear  before  me  otherwise  than  in  full  uni- 
form and  when  I made  answer  that  the  close-fitting  uniform 
made  the  orchestral  duties  more  difficult,  and  that  the  high 
epaulettes  in  particular  made  it  quite  impossible  for  the  vio- 
linists to  hold  their  instrument  in  the  proper  way,  he  pro- 
posed to  give  the  musicians  a particular  and  convenient  uni- 
form without  epaulettes,  for  the  orchestral  service,  rather  than 
give  up  his  whim.  He  rejected  also  my  then  suggested  pro- 
posal to  give  the  civilian-musicians  the  same  kind  of  uniform ; 
and  in  this  manner  this  party-coloured  orchestra  remained 
unchanged  to  the  astonishment  of  all  foreigners,  until  the 
year  1832,  when  the  present  elector  became  co-regent  in  the 
government. 

But  my  propositions  for  the  increase  and  improvement 
of  the  orchestra  were  all  adopted,  and  I received  instructions 
to  engage  some  more  good  violinists,  and  some  first-rate  solo- 
players  for  the  leading  wind  instruments.  By  this  means  the 
opportunity  was  afforded  me  of  bringing  my  brother  near  to  me 
once  more,  who,  after  the  expiration  of  his  engagement  in 
Vienna  had  met  with  an  engagement  in  the  Berlin  court  or- 
chestra. I was  equally  successful  with  my  former  pupil  and 
friend  Hauptmann , and  both  received  a rescript  of  engagement 
for  life.  Some  excellent  musicians  were  soon  found  also  for 
the  wind  instruments,  and  by  this  increase  and  by  diligent 
study  and  exercise,  the  orchestra  became  one  of  the  best  in 

t 


Digitized  by  foozle 


145 


Germany,  and  has  so  remained,  in  spite  of  all  the  personal 
changes  until  now  (1853). 

But  I must  revert  to  the  year  1822.  My  accession  to 
office  was  celebrated  by  the  whole  theatrical  company,  by  a 
grand  dinner,  at  which  the  two  heads  of  the  theatrical  ad- 
ministration, the  intendant  Mr.  von  Manger,  director  of  the  police, 
and  director-general  Feige  presided.  Songs , speeches  and 
toasts  were  sung  and  made  in  my  honour,  and  I felt  myself 
quite  at  home  in  a circle  where  I was  met  on  every  side  with 
so  much  friendliness,  and  indeed  in  so  hearty  a manner.  As 
the  Elector,  who  in  the  first  years  of  his  rule  was  very  gen- 
erous, had  made  Messrs,  von  Manger  and  Feige  grants  of 
money  for  special  performances  for  the  relief  of  native  and 
travelling  musicians,  this  gave  rise  to  brilliant  and  interesting 
soirees  at  both  their  houses.  These  meetings  were  enlivened 
by  genius  and  wit,  and  there  prevailed  thereat  a joviality  which 
though  somewhat  free  was  yet  decorous.  I at  first  therefore 
frequented  them  with  pleasure;  but  towards  the  time  when 
I expected  my  family  I gradually  withdrew  from  them,  partly 
because  I was  obliged  to  confess  to  myself  that  my  wife  would 
not  quite  approve  of  this  circle,  and  partly  because  I was  fear- 
ful of  endangering  my  official  authority  by  a too  companionable 
intercourse  with  the  singers. 

A few  days  after  my  arrival  in  Cassel  I was  presented 
to  the  Electress  and  her  daughters,  the  Princesses  Caroline  and 
Marie , and  was  invited  to  their  evening  parties.  At  one  of 
these  I was  requested  to  play  some  of  my  quartets,  which  I 
expressly  practised  beforehand  with  the  most  distinguished 
members  of  the  the  court-orchestra.  Messrs.  Wiele,  solo  violin- 
ist, Barnbeck,  first  violinist,  and  Hasemarm,  first  violincellist  (my 
former  quartetist  in  Frankfort,  who  had  been  engaged  at  Cassel 
shortly  before).  These  music  parties,  which  were  much  spoken  of, 
were  probably  the  reason  why  the  Elector,  who,  separated  from 
his  wife,  never  joined  her  evening  circle,  gave  me  the  order 
to  give  a court -concert,  in  order  to  afford  an  opportunity  for 
himself  and  the  Countess  Beichenbach  to  hear  me  play.  This 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  U.  iq 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


146 


concert,  for  which  I enlisted  the  services  of  all  the  talent 
among  the  singers  and  court-orchestra,  was  given  in  the  grand 
saloon  of  the  palace,  before  a brilliant  company  (in  which  of 
course  the  Electress  did  not  appear,  as  the  Countess  Beichen - 
bach  occupied  her  place),  and  as  it  was  the  first  at  the  new 
court,  it  made  a great  sensation.  It  was,  however,  the  only 
one  for  a long  time,  as  the  Elector  and  the  Countess  took  but 
little  interest  in  concert  music. 

By  the  wish  of  the  orchestra  I assumed  also  the  direction 
of  the  concerts  which  they  gave  in  the  new  town-hall  saloon, 
and  appeared  also  at  one  of  them  as  solo  player.  In  the  first 
years  their  receipts  were  divided,  as  they  had  previously  been, 
among  the  members  of  the  orchestra ; but  later,  upon  my  pro- 
position, they  were  appropriated  to  a relief-fund  for  the  widows 
and  the  families  of  deceased  members  of  the  orchestra,  and 
managed  by  a committee  according  to  rules  and  regulations 
devised  for  that  purpose.  This  relief  fund,  which  from  that 
period  was  supplied  from  the  receipts  from  the  concerts  given 
every  winter  by  the  court  orchestra  and  those  from  the  per- 
formance of  an  oratorio  on  Good  Fridays,  is  still  in  existence 
(1853),  and  in  the  course  of  years  has  alleviated  the  distress 
of  many  widows  and  orphans  of  the  members  of  the  orchestra. 
But  for  several  years  past  the  concerts  have  been  no  more  given 
in  the  town-hall,  but  in  the  court  theatre , from  the  time  the 
former  Elector  became  patron  of  the  institution,  who,  as  little 
as  the  present  Elector,  could  make  up  his  mind  to  be  present 
at  a concert  given  anywhere  else  than  in  the  theatre. 

* * 

* 

(Besumed  in  April  1858  after  a pause  of  live  years.) 

(In  this  continuation,  of  the  Journal,  written  in  Spohr’s  seventy-fifth 
year,  the  manuscript  would  no  longer  permit  of  being  printed  so  verbally 
as  previously,  and  here  and  there,  to  avoid  too  much  prolixity,  it  was 
necessary  to  make  omissions.  Some  gaps , nevertheless,  which  required 
filling  up  have  been  so  far  completed  only  as  the  citation  of  Spohr*s 
Own  words  in  letters  written  to  absent  friends,  would  permit  of,  — so 


Digitized  by  Google 


147 


that  the  reader  may  rely  upon  the  subject  matter  as  faithfully  given  and 
that  only  Spohr  himself  speaks , without  any  additions  from  the  pen  of 
others , up  to  the  mournful  period  (June  1856)  when  his  biographical 
notes,  which  reach  to  the  year  1838,  break  off  altogether.) 

Shortly  after  my  arrival  in  Cassel,  I was  invited  by  the 
countess  Hessmstein  to  a music-party.  I there  met  several 
dilettanti  of  the  town,  who  all  sang,  though  in  their  own  very 
bad  style  only.  As  nevertheless  some  of  them  had  the  gift 
of  good  voices,  it  suggested  of  me  the  idea  of  directing  my 
exertions  on  that  side  also,  and  beginning  by  the  institution  of 
a choral  society.  I therefore  formed  an  acquaintance  with  some 
of  the  singers,  communicated  my  plan  to  them,  and  we  imme- 
diately arranged  to  meet  on  an  early  day  in  order  to  consult 
further  upon  the  steps  necessary  to  be  taken.  As  result 
of  this  meeting  a code  of  regulations  was  draw  up,  and  as 
early  as  the  22nd  March  following  an  invitation  was  sent  round 
to  the  dilettanti  of  Cassel,  signed  by  myself,  Mr.  von  Steuber , 
and  secretary  Knyrim , to  join  the  society  we  were  about  to 
establish  under  the  name  of  the  “Society  of  St.  Cecilia,”  in 
order,  “after  the  example  of  the  majority  of  the  larger  towns 
of  Germany,  to  strive  here  also  towards  the  same  noble  aim, 
to  awaken  and  cultivate  a pure  and  correct  taste  for  music 
of  an  exalted  and  earnest  character.”  As  the  enterprise  met 
with  a cordial  welcome,  the  society  was  soon  formed,  and  upon 
its  opening  began  first  with  the  study  of  Mozart's  incomparable 
Ave  Verum,  then  with  Haydn's  Hymns  of  Thanks,  and  Mozart's 
first  mass,  followed  by  a Salve  Regina  by  Hauptmann , a charm- 
ingly beautiful  composition  in  the  real,  pious  ecclesiastical 
style.  Meanwhile  the  number  of  members  had  increased  to 
more  than  fifty,  and  such  satisfactory  progress  was  made  in 
the  weekly  rehearsals,  that  already  in  the  first  year  of  its 
institution  the  society  performed  several  times  in  the  catholic 
church  accompanied  by  the  organ,  during  divine  service,  masses 
by  Hauptmann  and  others. 

In  the  theatre  also,  after  I had  got  to  know  the  singers 
and  orchestra  more  intimately,  my  sphere  of  action  began  to 

10* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


148 


extend  itself.  The  first  quite  new  work  studied  under  my  di- 
rection was  the  opera  “Zemira  and  Azor,”  which  I had  written 
at  Frankfort,  and  which  was  first  performed  on  the  24th  March. 
A young,  talented  singer,  Miss  Canzi , who  was  just  then  on 
a professional  visit  to  Cassel,  sang  the  part  of  Zemira,  and 
Gerstacker , the  then  much  admired  first  tenor  of  our  stage, 
the  part  of  Azor.  As  the  other  characters  of  the  opera  were 
also  well  represented,  it  could  not  fail  to  be  as  well  received 
here  as  at  Frankfort,  so  that  not  only  wras  it  repeated  during 
Canzi’s  stay,  a few  days  afterwards,  but  also  immediately  stu- 
died by  her  successor,  Miss  Roland , and  given  several  times 
during  the  course  of  the  year  with  great  applause.  But  far 
more  pleasure  than  from  the  enthusiastic  approbation  of 
the  public , did  I receive  from  the  circumstance  that  the 
opera  pleased  me,  who  had  not  heard  it  for  two  years,  and 
I was  a still  more  severe  judge  of  my  later  productions. 
I was  also  now  more  than  ever  convinced,  that  this,  like 
many  of  my  compositions  required  to  be  given  in  strict  accord- 
ance with  the  spirit  of  the  work  to  please  the  non -connoisseur 
as  well ; and  that  my  music,  if  negligently  played,  can  readily 
be  so  spoiled,  that  the  connoisseur  himself  would  be  at  a 
loss  to  understand  it.  Meanwhile , in  the  beginning  of  March 
1822  my  family  arrived  under  the  protection  of  my  brother 
Ferdinand , who  had  fetched  them  from  Dresden  on  his  way 
here  from  Berlin,  and  we  removed  together  to  the  house  I 
had  hired  in  the  Bellevue.  Once  more  settled  down  in  the 
domestic  circle  I immediately  began  to  compose  the  new  opera 
“Jessonda,”  and  finished  it  in  December  of  the  same  year. 
[In  a letter  written  to  Speyer  of  Frankfort  on  26th  January 
1823,  he  says:  “I  have  been  latterly  so  much  engaged  upon 
a new  opera  that  I have  somewhat  neglected  everything 
else.  It  is  now  ready,  and  I am  right  glad  to  have  completed 
so  important  a work.  If  I expect  more  from  this  opera  than 
from  the  earlier  ones,  it  is  because  of  my  greater  experience, 
and  the  inspiration  I felt  in  the  study  of  almost  every  ‘number’ 
of  the  successfully  written  libretto.  In  order  to  devote  myself 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


149 


to  the  work  in  my  hours  of  inspiration  only,  I have  allowed 
myself  also  more  time  with  this  than  with  all  the  former 
ones.”]  Some  “numbers”  from  it  — the  overture,  an  air  of  Jes- 
sonda’s,  and  the  well-known  duet  between  Amazili  und  Nadori  — 
were  performed  the  very  same  winter  at  the  subscription  con- 
certs, and  my  daughter  Emilia  gained  much  applause  in  them. 
The  entire  opera  was  first  represented  upon  our  stage  on 
the  birthday  of  the  Elector,  the  28th  July,  in  the  following 
summer,  and  was  received  with  general  acclamation.  [In  a 
letter  of  the  2nd  August  1823,  appears,  further:  “You  wish 
to  hear  from  me  something  respecting  the  first  representation 
of  ‘Jessonda;’  it  is  a subject  scarcely  becoming  me  to  write 
upon,  for  without  wishing  to  do  so,  I must  nevertheless  speak 
in  praise  of  it.  The  effect  was  great!  It  is  the  fashion  here, 
upon  birthdays  to  receive  the  court  only  with  applause,  and 
then  the  opera  is  listened  to  without  any  loud  demonstratiou 
of  approbation.  It  should  also  have  been  so  now;  but  already 
before  the  end  of  the  first  act  a storm  of  applause  burst 
forth,  and  etiquette  was  forgotten  for  the  rest  of  the  even- 
ing. The  performance  was  excellent.  Gerstdcker , Miss  Roland , 
Hauser  were  grand,  Miss  Braun  was  endurable  at  least,  and 
better  than  in  other  characters.  The  chorus  and  orchestra, 
scenery,  dances,  spectacle  combats,  storm,  decorations, 
costume,  every  thing,  was  excellent. . . . This  work  has  made 
me  very  happy,  and  I have  reason  to  hope  that  the  opera  will 
please  much  in  other  places.”] 

From  the  windows  of  our  house  on  the  Bellevue  we  had 
a very  fine  view  across  the  meadows  into  the  valley,  which 
is  enlivened  by  the  Leipzic  high-road,  and  the  beauty  of  the 
country  induced  us  to  take  frequent  walks  in  the  charming 
environs  of  Cassel.  In  these  walks  we  were  mostly  attracted 
by  the  numerous  villas  situated  in  gardens,  outside  the  Wil- 
helmshohe,  and  also  of  the  Cologne  gate ; and  as  we  began  to 
like  this  part  very  much,  we  soon  felt  the  wish,  also,  to  have 
such  a house  with  garden  as  we  had  already  once  rented  in 
Gotha,  that  we  might  call  our  own  property.  When  therefore 


Digitized  by 


Google 


150 


in  our  rambles  any  one  of  these  particularly  took  our  fancy, 
I often  made  enquiries  whether  the  owner  was  disposed  to  sell 
it,  but  was  frequently  answered  in  the  negative,  until  at  length 
a small  country-house  outside  the  Cologne  gate,  close  to  the 
town  and  not  far  from  the  theatre,  in  a quiet  neighbourhood 
surrounded  on  all  sides  by  gardens,  was  offered  to  me  to  pur- 
chase. As  the  price  asked  for  it  did  not  exceed  the  amount 
of  my  small  saviugs  placed  with  the  firm  of  William  Speyer 
of  Frankfort.  I concluded  the  purchase  of  it  at  once,  and 
already  in  the  autumn  we  moved  into  the  newly -acquired  pro- 
perty and  had  the  pleasure  of  gathering  forthwith  a good 
harvest  of  fruit  and  vegetables.  The  only  thing  1 missed  in 
the  new  house  was  a spacious  music  room.  I therefore  had 
a partition  wall  removed  that  separated  two  rooms  on  the  first 
floor,  and  by  that  means  gained  a sufficiently  roomy  saloon  for 
a quartet  party,  which,  however,  had  the  defect  in  an  acoustic 
point  of  view,  of  being  too  low;  for  which  reason  I proposed  to 
myself  at  a later  period  to  erect  a building  with  a music  room. 

Our  pretty  quiet  country-house  incited  me  anew  to 
fresh  compositions , and  so  I first  wrote  a third  quartet 
to  the  two  already  begun  in  Dresden , which  were  pub- 
lished by  Peters  of  Leipzic  as  Op.  58.  lu  order  to  have 
this  quartet  heard  and  the  former  ones,  I established  here 
also  a quartet  circle,  at  which,  in  turn  with  some  other  fa- 
milies who  were  lovers  of  music,  we  gave  three  quartets  every 
week,  and  concluded  the  evenings  with  a frugal  supper.  At 
first  the  quartet  consisted  of  myself,  Mr.  Wiele,  solo  violinist, 
and  subsequently  concert-master  of  our  court  orchestra,  of 
my  brother  Ferdinand , who  took  the  viol,  and  of  our  excellent 
violincellist  Hasemann.  But  as  by  degrees,  both  in  the  or- 
chestra, and  in  this  small  circle,  death  made  some  vacancies, 
others  were  obliged  to  be  substituted  in  their  place,  and  then 
some  time  was  always  required  until  we  obtained  once  more 
the  old,  customary  ensemble  again.  In  1831  my  brother  was 
first  snatched  from  us,  then  Wiele,  and  at  last  Hasemann;  but 
their  places  were  again  filled  by  new  members  of  our  court 


Digitized  by 


Google 


151 


orchestra , so  that  the  quartet  parties , which  only  took  place 
in  the  winter  months,  never  ceased  entirely,  and  I myself  up 
to  quite  recently  (1858)  played  two  quartets  in  each  of  them. 

After  I had  completed  the  third  quartet  of  Op.  58,  a 
fancy  seized  me  to  carry  out  an  idea  I had  long  conceived, 
and  of  which,  if  I am  not  mistaken,  Andrew  Romberg , when  we 
played  a quartet  together  for  the  last  time  before  his  death, 
first  spoke  of,  viz.  to  try  my  hand  at  a double  quartet.  The 
circumstance  that  Romberg  had  entertained  the  idea  for  several 
years  without  ever  attempting  it,  incited  me  to  it  yet  more, 
and  I imagined  to  myself  the  manner  in  which  he  had  also 
comprehended  it,  and  how  two  quartet  parties  sitting  close  to 
each  other,  should  be  made  to  play  one  piece  of  music,  and 
keep  in  reserve  the  eight-voice  play  for  the  chief-parts  of  the 
composition  only.  According  to  this  idea,  I also  wrote  my  first 
double  quartet  ( B minor),  began  the  theme  of  the  first  allegro 
with  both  quartets  nnisono,  and  forte,  in  order  to  impress  it 
well  upon  the  hearers,  and  then  carried  it  concerted  through 
both  quartets  in  turn.  Of  the  families  who  belonged  to  the 
quartet  circle,  the  marshal  of  the  court  von  der  Malsburg  had 
the  most  spacious  place,  for  which  reason  I waited  until  the 
turn  came  to  him  to  give  the  quartet  party,  at  which  I then 
with  the  assistance  of  my  best  pupils  and  of  a second  violin- 
cellist  from  the  orchestra,  gave  the  new  double  quartet  to  our 
circle,  to  hear.  1 was  greatly  pleased  to  find  that  its  effect 
was  far  greater  than  that  of  simple  quartets  and  quintets,  and 
as  this  kind  of  chamber  music  excited  also  great  sensation 
abroad*,  as  was  proved  by  its  frequent  performance,  I expected 
nothing  less  than  that  the  composers  of  that  day  would  soon 
imitate  it  and  make  it  general.  But  this  was  as  little  the  case, 
as  with  some  other  extensions  of  the  forms  of  art,  which  I 


* The  ‘‘Vienna  Allgemeinen  musikalischen  Anzeiger,”  of  the  14th 
March,  said  among  other  things,  in  announcing  the  publication  by  Peters 
[Op.  65]  of  this  work:  “To  waste  words  in  praising  this  doubb  quartet, 
which  all  unite  in  admiring,  would  be  carying  coals  to  Newcastle.” 


Digitized  by 


Google 


152 


have  tried  in  later  years,  as  for  instance  in  the  symphony  for 
two  orchestras:  “Irdisches  und  Gottliches  im  Menschenleben." 
(The  earthly  and  heavenly  in  human  life.  Op.  1 2 1)  in  the  historical 
symphony  (Op.  116),  and  the  four-handed  piano-forte  accom- 
paniment to  some  tenor  songs.  One  single  young  composer 
only,  of  Lubeck,  of  the  name  of  Pajie,  who  was  afterwards 
appointed  violincellist  in  the  orchestra  of  the  theatre  at  Bremen, 
once  sent  me  a double  quartet  in  manuscript.  He  had  great 
talent  for  composition . but  found  no  opportunity  of  making 
his  things  known,  and  like  so  many  young  Germans,  became 
desponding  for  want  of  the  recognition  of  his  talent.  This  has 
never  been  published,  and  thus  my  four  double  quartets  remain 
the  only  ones  of  their  kind.  An  octet  for  stringed  instruments 
by  Mevdelssolin-Bartholdy  belongs  to  quite  another  kind  of 
art,  in  which  the  two  quartets  do  not  concert  and  interchange 
in  double  choir,  with  each  other,  but  all  eight  instruments 
work  together.  This  kind,  although  not  so  interesting  as  the 
double  quartets,  has  been  imitated ; for  the  violincellist  Schu- 
berth of  St.  Petersburg  published  one  of  the  kind  at  his  bro- 
ther’s, the  music-publisher’s  in  Hamburg,  which  has  been  played 
by  us  in  Cassel  several  times,  and  been  well  received. 

At  this  time  I was  engaged  besides  on  various  other  com- 
positions: two  pot-pourris  on  themes  from  l,Jessonda”  (Op.  64 
and  66,  at  Peter's  in  Leipzic),  one  for  violin,  the  other  for 
violin  and  violincello,  both  of  which  I played  in  the  course 
of  the  winter  in  our  subscription  concerts.  I further  composed 
a hymn  to  St.  Cecilia,  written  by  Miss  von  Calenberg  for  the 
festival  of  the  22nd  November,  which  consisted  of  chorus 
with  a brilliant  soprano  solo,  the  latter  very  well  executed 
upon  the  occasion  by  my  eldest  daughter  Emilia .* 

For  the  celebration  of  this  day,  which  our  choral 
society  did  this  year  for  the  first  time , a company  of  about  1 20 
persons  assembled,  mostly  friends  of  the  members  of  the  society. 


* The  manuscript  remained  unpublished  for  many  years,  and  was  only 
recently  published  bei  Luckhardt  in  Cassel  as  Op.  97. 


Digitized  by  Google 


153 


in  the  Austrian  saloon,  which  had  been  handsomely  decorated 
for  the  occasion,  and  ornamented  with  a life-size  picture  of 
St.  Cecilia.  The  festival  began  with  the  hymn  to  St.  Cecilia, 
after._which  a member  delivered  a discourse  upon  the  musical 
art,  and  with  the  most  flattering  expression  of  the  thanks  and 
acknowledgements  of  the  society , presented  me  with  a valuable 
gift,  consisting  of  two  large  bronze  candelabra  executed  by  the 
subsequently  so  celebrated  sculptor  Henschel , and  ornamented 
with  scenes  from  my  three  operas  performed  here.  This  was 
followed  by  a “Lord’s  Prayer”  by  Feska,  the  Salve  regina  by 
Hauptmann , and  during  the  supper,  some  songs  for  male  voices 
were  sung.  In  the  following  year  Hauptmann  composed  an- 
other hymn  written  Miss  von  Galenberg  in  celebration  of 
the  name-day  of  our  holy  patroness,  and  as  this,  together 
with  my  composition,  met  with  the  same  general  approbation, 
both  these  pieces  of  music  were  executed  in  turn  upon  all  the 
subsequent  celebra times  of  the  festival.  The  voluntary  con- 
tributions which  were  collected  upon  these  occasions  were 
applied  only  to  charitable  purposes,  and  the  celebration  of  the 
day  although  sometimes  interrupted  by  some  disturbances, 
continued  to  be  observed  up  to  a late  period,  sometimes  on 
a more  limited  and  at  others  on  a more  extensive  scale. 

In  the  following  year  (1824)  I received  an  invitation  from 
Councillor  Kiistner , who  was  then  director  of  the  Leipzic 
theatre,  to  bring  out  my  opera  of  “Jessonda”  upon  that 
stage.  [A  letter  of  the  14th  February  furnishes  an  account  of 
its  successful  performance  there  on  the  9th  of  that  month: 
“Upon  entering  the  orchestra  I was  received  with  general 
acclamation,  the  overture  was  called  for  again  with  a loud 
and  continued  da  capo . Every  ‘number’  was  received  with 
lively  applause,  and  four  of  them  called  for  again,  of  which 
one  was  a chorus,  the  first  of  the  2nd  act.  The  greatest,  and 
really  stormy  enthusiasm,  was  created  by  the  duet  between 
Amazili  and  Nadori.  After  the  conclusion  of  the  first  act  a 
speaker  stood  up  in  a box  on  the  first  tier,  and  addressed 
me  in  a speech  in  which  he  charactesised  me  as  a true  master 


Digitized  by 


Google 


154 


of  German  art , and  called  upon  the  audience  to  give  me  a 
‘‘three  times  three”!  This  actually  took  place  with  a flourish 
of  trumpets  and  kettle-druns  in  a tutti  such  as  I thought  would 
bring  down  the  walls  of  the  theatre.  At  the  conclusion  of 
the  opera  the  same  scene  occurred , and  the  house  rang  with 
cries  of  ‘‘rfa  capo  Jessonda!”  The  day  after  the  performance 
Councillor  Kiistner  sent  me  double  the  amount  of  the 
honorarium  agreed  upon,  and  when  upon  my  departure  from 
the  inn  I was  about  to  pay  my  bill,  I found  that  it  had 
been  already  settled.  . . . Peters , the  publisher  of  the  selections 
from  it  for  pianoforte,  declared  to  me  also,  that  after  such  a 
success  of  the  opera,  the  honorarium  I had  fixed  was  too  small, 
and  that  I must  now  permit  him  to  fix  one  for  it.”]  On  the 
14th  June  of  the  same  year,  the  opera  was  also  produced 
at  Frankfort,  for  the  first  time,  and  after  that  on  the  stage 
of  all  the  principal  theatres  of  Germany. 

Some  time  afterwards  I received  the  command  from  the 
Elector  to  write  a new  opera  to  celebrate  the  marriage  of  his 
daughter  the  Princess  Marie  with  the  Duke  of  Saxe-Meiningen, 
which  was  to  take  place  in  the  spring  of  1825.  The  subject 
I had  before  proposed  in  Vienna  to  Theodore  Korner  to  arrange 
for  me,  Musaus's  tale  of  the  “Riibezahl now  came  into  my  mind, 
and  I therefore  applied  to  Mr.  Edward  Gehe  in  Dresden,  who  had 
written  the  libretto  of  “Jessonda”  so  much  to  my  satisfaction. 
But  as  I could  not  send  to  him  a clear  outline  of  the  scenes  for 
the  opera,  not  being  myself  as  yet  well  decided  respecting  the 
working- up  of  the  materials,  his  fancy  could  not  assist  him  in 
the  matter,  and  he  sent  me  a libretto  that  did  not  all  come 
up  with  my  ideas,  and  to  which  I did  not  at  all  feel  myself  in- 
clined to  compose.  I now  called  to  mind  my  former  kettle- 
drummer  in-  the  Frankfort  orchestra,  the  already-mentioned 
George  Doririg,  who  was  at  the  same  time  a literary  man, 
and  who  since  then  had  made  himself  known  by  several  suc- 
cessful novels.  I therefore  addressed  myself  to  him,  and  ex- 
plained my  views  respecting  the  working-up  of  the  “Riibezahl,” 
particularly  pointing  out  to  him,  that  as  I intended  this  to 


Digitized  by 


Google 


155 


be  a grand  opera,  it  would  not  be  necessary  to  write  it  in 
rhyming  verse.  In  Gehe's  uRUbezahl”  there  were  many  things 
both  shallow  and  inappropriate,  and  which  appeared  to  me  as 
caused  by  the  shackles  imposed  upon  the  author  by  the  rhyme, 
and  this  Doting,  by  my  express  wish,  was  to  avoid  altogether. 
Although  this  has  been  greatly  objected  to,  I am  nevetherless  of 
opinion  that  the  want  of  the  rhyme  in  my  opera  uDer  Berg- 
geist,”  although  it  does  not  fulfill  all  that  could  be  desired,  is 
the  least  to  be  blamed  for  it.  Although  Doring’s  libretto  was 
neither  altogether  to  my  mind,  yet  there  was  no  time  to  be 
lost,  and  less  so,  since  this  was  not  the  only  work  the  elector 
had  requested  me  to  prepare  for  the  celebration  of  the  mar- 
riage. I had  besides  to  compose  a grand  march  with  intro- 
duction of  the  melody  of  the  old  German  ballad:  “Und  als 
der  Grossvater  die  Grossmutter  nahm,”  together  with  a torch- 
ight-dance  for  fifty-three  trumpeters,  and  two  pair  of  kettle- 
drummers  (for  these  were  the  numbers  to  be  found  in  the  music 
bands  of  the  army  of  the  Elector  of  Hesse);  and  as  for  the 
sake  of  the  modulation  I was  obliged  to  take  various  tones 
of  the  trumpets,  and  the  trumpeters  of  the  bands  not  being 
very  musical,  I was  obliged  to  practise  them  also  beforehand 
in  this  torch-light-dance. 

At  the  end  of  the  year,  nevertheless,  I was  ready  with 
all  these  compositions,  and  could  now  proceed  to  the  study 
of  the  “Berg-Geist.”  Our  first  tenor  Gerstacker , who  had  been 
ill  for  some  time  past,  had  meanwhile  become  worse,  and  his 
malady  had  taken  so  sad  a turn , that  all  likelihood  of  his 
being  able  to  sing  was  out  of  the  question,  and  we  were  now 
without  a first  tenor.  The  Elector  therefore  gave  orders  to 
invite  some  foreign  singer  to  perform  for  a series  of  nights  in 
his  place,  and  we  were  so  successful  as  to  engage  for  several 
weeks  the  services  of  the  tenorist  Cornet  of  Hamburg,  who 
was  then  in  great  repute , together  with  his  betrothed , Miss 
Kiel  of  Sondershausen,  who  undertook  the  first  soprano  part  in 
the  new  opera.  Scarcely,  however,  had  I begun  the  study  of  the 
work  by  our  own  theatrical  company,  than  I received  from 


Digitized  by 


Google 


156 


Spontini  an  invitation  that  very  much  surprised  me,  viz.  to 
proceed  to  Berlin,  to  direct  the  first  representation  there  of 
the  opera  of  “Jessonda,”  fixed  for  the  4th  of  February,  and 
to  preside  myself  at  the  two  last*  grand  rehearsals.  Spontini , 
who  must  often  have  seen  himself  reproached  in  the  Berlin 
newspapers,  for  giving  nothing  but  his  own  operas,  and  writh- 
olding  other  meritorious  works  from  that  stage,  might  have 
come  to  the  idea  of  meeting  that  reproach  in  the  most  signal 
manner  by  inviting  the  composer  of  uJessonda.”  But  in  reality 
he  did  not  seem  to  trouble  himself  much  in  furthering  the 
representation  of  the  opera;  for  as  soon  as,  having  obtained 
leave  of  absence,  I arrived  at  Berlin,  and  waited  upon 
Spontini , he  received  me  in  a very  friendly  manner,  it  is  true, 
but  informed  me  that  the  preparatory -rehearsals  even  had  not 
yet  been  begun,  and  that  he  had  sent  me  the  invitation 
without  the  previons  knowledge  of  the  intendant  of  the  royal 
theatre , Count  JBriihl.  I now  first  sought  to  soften  the  sen- 
sitiveness of  the  latter  on  the  score  of  such  a neglect,  and  in 
order  not  to  be  obliged  to  return  home  without  having  effected 
anything,  I then  consulted  with  him  on  all  that  was  neces- 
sary to  expedite  the  representation  of  the  opera. 

In  the  preparatory  rehearsals  which  now  took  place,  I had 
the  satisfaction  of  finding  that  the  principal  parts  were  in  good 
hands:  Bader  and  Blame  as  Nadori  and  Tristan,  and  Mdmes. 
Schulze  and  Seidler  as  Jessonda  and  Amazili , were  excellent 
singers ; the  part  of  Dandau  also  was  well  filled  by  Mr.  Krause , 
and  that  of  Lopez,  which  had  at  first  been  given  to  a comic 
singer,  by  which  the  serious  character  of  the  opera  would  have 
been  damaged,  was  taken  by  the  baritone  Devrient , after  I 
had  agreed  to  make  some  alterations  in  the  recitatives.  The 
opera  could  thus  have  been  soon  placed  on  the  repertory, 
when  Bader  suddenly  fell  ill,  and  after  his  convalesence  Mrs. 
Seidlery  being  seized  with  a hoarseness  occasioned  some  ob- 
struction. As  the  term  of  my  leave  of  absence  was  nearly  at 
an  end,  I made  application  for  an  extension  of  it.  But  the 
Elector  had  felt  himself  aggrieved  by  the  obstacles  thrown  in 


Digitized  by 


Google 


157 


my  way  by  Spontini  and  the  Berlin  intendance,  and  he  allowed 
me  but  a few  days  more,  after  the  expiration  of  which  I was 
to  return,  whether  the  opera  was  brought  out  or  not.  Fortu- 
nately, Mdme.  Seidler  got  better;  I could  now  therefore 
direct  in  person  the  first  representation  of  “Jessonda”  in  Berlin, 
and  be  witness  to  its  very  favourable  reception.  Immediately 
after,  I left,  and  travelled  three  whole  nights  without  resting, 
in  order  to  regain  the  time  lost. 

The  two  singers  from  Hamburg  had  arrived  in  the  mean- 
time, and  had  already  performed  with  great  applause ; 1 could 
therefore  begin  the  stage  rehearsals  of  the  “Berg-Geist”  at 
once.  But  between  whiles  I received  furthermore  the  elector’s 
order  to  arrange  choruses  for  the  prologue  to  the  opera,  in 
which  were  to  be  introduced  some  popular  Thuringian  melo- 
dies. To  effect  this  I applied  to  my  pupil  Grund , concert- 
master  at  Meiningen,  who  procured  for  me  the  desired  melo- 
dies, which  I then  made  use  of  in  the  work  as  well  as  they 
would  admit  of  it. 

On  the  23th  March  1825,  the  marriage  took  place  in  the 
palace  of  Bellevue.  On  the  procession  of  the  new-married 
pair  and  their  suite  from  the  dining-hall  to  the  white  saloon, 
the  orchestra  played  my  march,  which  had  a good  effect,  and 
at  the  part  where  the  “Grossvater-Lied”  was  introduced 
was  very  pretty.  The  Elector,  and  the  Duke  (who  was  decid- 
edly more  musical  than  his  father-in-law)  both  congratulated 
me  much  upon  the  grand  march,  which,  at  their  request,  was 
played  a second  time.  The  reception  of  the  married  couple 
at  the  festive  representation  on  the  following  evening  in  the 
theatre,  was  a very  brilliant  and  noisy  one ; for  I ordered  the 
fifty- three  trumpeters  and  the  two  pair  of  kettle-drummers 
whom  I had  placed  up  in  the  gallery  to  join  in  with  the  ac- 
clamations and  vivats  of  the  audience!  The  festive-prologue 
written  by  counsellor  Niemeyer  followed;  then  my  new  opera 
“Der  Berg-Geist,  “which  in  truth  was  received  by  the  thronged 
and  brilliantly  lighted  house  with  as  much  boisterous  applause 
as  “Jessonda,”  but  which  neither  pleased  me  so  much,  nor 


Digitized  by 


Google 


158 


was  so  popular  on  other  stages  as  the  latter.  The  Elector, 
who  was  very  satisfied  with  all  I had  written  for  the  occasion, 
sent  for  me  the  next-day,  thanked  me,  and  presented  me  with 
a very  handsome  snuff-box,  upon  the  lid  of  which,  though 
somewhat  unsuitable  for  a musician,  was  a very  artistic  chasing 
representing  a combat  of  cavalry,  set  and  framed  under  glass. 
But  — and  that  was  the  best  part  of  it  — it  was  filled  with 
Friedrich’s-d’or,  and  therefore  a handsome  and  princely  gift. 

A few  months  afterwards  Councillor  Kiistner  sent  for  my 
new  opera  to  Leipzic,  and  in  September  the  first  representation 
of  it  on  that  stage  took  place.  [A  letter  of  the  18th  Sep- 
tember speaks  of  it  in  the  following  manner : “The  day  before 
yesterday  i4Der  Berg-Geist”  was  launched  here  with  the  great- 
est success  . . . The  wise  en  scene  was  more  brilliant  than 
was  ever  known  before  in  Leipzic,  and  some  of  the  scenes 
were  more  beautiful  than  any  I had  ever  yet  seen.  The 
scene-painter  Gropius  is  in  a fair  way  to  become  the  first  in 
the  world ; neither  in  Italy,  Paris  nor  London  have  I ever  seen 
anything  so  charming  as  the  closing-scene  of  the  second 
act.  . . . The  reception  the  opera  met  with , was  the  most 
flattering  I had  ever  yet  experienced.  . . . The  performance 
may  be  said  to  have  been  a very  successful  one.  With  the 
exception  of  one  error  in  the  overture,  and  one  obstinate  rock 
which  would  not  come  up  out  of  the  earth,  nothing  went 
wrong.  On  the  stage,  almost  all  did  better  than  in  Cassel, 
particularly  the  Berg-Geist  (Kockert)  and  Oscar  (Vetter).  . . . 
The  orchestra,  although  far  inferior  to  ours,  was  unusually 
good.”] 

In  the  summer  of  1825  an  aimable  young  man,  Frederick 
Curschman  of  Berlin,  came  to  Cassel  to  perfect  himself  under 
my  guidance  as  a musician.  Although  he  had  begun  the  study 
of  jurisprudence  at  Gottingen,  he  thought  nevertheless  of  giving 
up  the  law,  and  had  already  tried  his  hand  with  success  at 
various  kinds  of  literature,  particularly  in  songs,  which  he  sung 
with  a pleasing  baritone  voice,  and  thereby  introduced  himself 
into  our  musical  circle.  As  his  musical  education  was  still 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


159 


imperfect,  I advised  him  to  apply  first  to  Hauptmann,  who 
at  my  request  had  undertaken  to  instruct  my  violin  pupils  in 
the  theory  of  music,  and  shown  great  skill  in  that  capacity. 
Curschmann  also  immediately  joined  our  society  of  St.  Cecilia, 
and  became  a very  valuable  member  of  it,  as  he  not  only 
sang  the  bass  soli  very  well  at  sight,  but  frequently  took 
the  pianoforte  accompaniment,  and  did  the  duty  of  a 
librarian  with  great  zeal.  Together  with  some  of  our  best 
dilettanti  he  formed  also  an  opera  circle,  in  which  for 
the  first  time  were  produced  several  of  his  compositions 
which  afterwards  became  such  favorites,  and  parts  of  his  little 
opera  “Die  Todten , oder  Abdul  und  Erinnieh,”  which  was 
brought  out  at  a later  period  upon  the  stage  here.  He  thus  in 
many  ways  enlivened  the  culture  of  art  in  our  town,  and  soon 
became  the  favorite  of  the  musical  world. 

In  the  same  year  Councillor  RochlUe , the  editor  of  the 
Leipzic  Musical  Journal,  offered  me  the  text  of  an  Oratorio: 
“Die  letzten  Dinge,”  to  compose  for;  which  I received  with 
great  pleasure,  as  my  previous  attempt  in  that  style  of  art, 
“Das  jungste  Gericht,”  the  oratorio  performed  at  Erfurt,  by 
no  means  pleased  me  any  longer,  and  therefore  I had  not 
once  been  disposed  to  perform  a single  “number”  of  it  at  the 
meetings  of  our  society.  I now  began  with  new  studies  of 
counter- point,  and  of  the  ecclestiastic  style,  and  set  zealously  to 
work  on  the  composition,  in  which  1 followed  the  prescriptions 
of  the  author  which  he  had  forwarded  to  me  with  the  text, 
in  respect  to  its  treatment,  and  which  I not  only  strictly  ad- 
hered to,  but  found  of  assistance  to  me.  The  first  part  of  the 
oratorio  was  thus  soon  ready,  and  as  early  as  the  end  of  No- 
vember I could  give  it  with  the  members  of  our  choral  society, 
at  a concert  in  behalf  of  the  sufferers  from  the  fire  that  had 
occurred  shortly  before  at  Seesen;  although  it  is  true,  with 
pianoforte  accompaniment  only.  On  that  occasion,  I observed 
with  great  pleasure,  that  it  made  a deep  impression  upon  the 
assistants,  as  well  as  upon  all  the  auditory,  and  this  obser- 
vation was  of  the  more  importance  to  me,  as  it  convinced  me 


Digitized  by 


Google 


160 


that  I had  found  the  proper  style  for  this  kind  of  work.  I had 
in  particular  striven  to  be  very  simple,  religious,  and  true  in 
expression,  and  carefully  to  avoid  all  artistic  trickery,  all 
bombast  and  every  thing  of  difficult  execution.  With  increased 
zest  I now  proceded  to  compose  the  second  part,  so  that 
the  whole  work  was  finished  by  the  following  Good  Fri- 
day (1826)  and  then  first  performed  complete  in  the  Lutheran 
church.  [A  letter  of  the  26th  March  speaks  of  it  in  the  fol- 
lowing manner:  4 ‘Yesterday  was  a great  day  of  festival  for  the 
lovers  of  music  here;  for  never  yet  had  so  solemn  a musical 
performance  as  my  oratorio  taken  place  in  Cassel.  It  was 
in  the  evening,  and  the  church  was  lighted  up.  My  son-in-law 
Wolff,  who  had  been  long  in  Rome,  proposed  to  illuminate 
the  church  as  at  Rome  on  Good  Friday,  with  lights  disposed 
overhead  in  the  form  of  a cross,  and  carried  out  his  idea. 
A cross  fourteen  feet  long,  covered  with  silver-foil,  and  hung 
with  six  hundred  glass  lamps,  was  suspended  overhead  in  the 
middle  of  the  church,  and  diffused  so  bright  a light  that  one 
could  everywhere  clearly  read  the  text-books.  The  musicians 
and  singers,  nearly  two  hundred  in  number,  were  placed  in 
the  gallery  of  the  church,  arranged  in  rows  one  above  the 
other,  and  for  the  most  part  unseen  by  the  auditory,  which, 
amounting  to  nearly  two  thousand  persons,  observed  a solemn 
stillness.  My  two  daughters,  Messrs.  Wild , Albert  and 
Foppelj  together  with  an  amateur,  sang  the  soli,  and  the  per- 
formance was  faultless.  The  effect  was,  I must  myself  say, 
extraordinary.  Never  did  I before  experience  such  satisfaction 
from  the  performance  of  one  of  my  greater  works!  I had 
always  had  to  lament  either  an  imperfect  execution,  an  un- 
successful effect,  or  something  else.  This  time  it  was  quite  dif- 
ferent. The  work,  also,  is  simple  and  easy,  and  yet  not  less 
comprehensive  in  contents,  than  the  others.]  The  visibly  deep 
impression  that  the  oratorio  made  upon  the  public  may  also 
have  been  yet  further  assisted  by  the  solemn  grandeur  of  the 
illuminated  cross-wliich  harmonized  greatly  with  the  religious 
sentiment  inspired  by  the  day.  The  elector  only  was  not 


Digitized  by 


Google 


161 


pleased  with  the  selection  of  the  Lutheran  church  and  its 
“catholic  illumination,”  as  he  called  the  cross,  and  he  ordered 
that  the  orchestra  should  give  their  future  Good  Friday  con- 
certs in  the  court  and  garrison  church,  lit  up  with  chandeliers 
to  be  furnished  from  the  electoral  household  lighting  department. 

Shortly  afterwards  I received  an  invitation  from  my  Lon- 
don friend  Ferdinand  Pies,  who  had  returned  to  Germany, 
and  was  then  living  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Godesberg  on 
the  Rhine,  to  direct  personally  my  new  oratorio  at  the  Rhenish 
musical  festival  at  Diisseldorf,  the  arrangements  for  which  had 
been  confided  to  him.  Although  the  Rhenish  musical  festival 
was  held  at  Whitsuntide,  and  therefore  at  a time  when  our 
theatrical  vacation  had  not  yet  begun,  and  I therefore  required 
to  obtain  an  express  permission  to  do  so,  I nevertheless  suc- 
ceeded in  obtaining  it  immediately,  for  the  Elector  felt  himself 
flattered  when  his  director  of  music  was  invited  to  important 
musical  performances , and  thereby  acquired  honour  and 
fame. 

While  therefore  I prepared  to  set  out  with  my  whole  fa- 
mily, except  Ida  who,  in  the  meanwhile,  had  married  Pro- 
fessor Wolff , four  of  the  most  ardent  lovers  of  music  here,  Mr. 
Curschmann,  the  referendary  Charles  Pfeiffer , Mrs.  von  der 
Malshurg  and  her  friend  Miss  von  Heister,  made  up  their 
minds  to  join  us,  and  like  us  to  travel  by  post,  in  order 
to  be  able  to  put  up  at  dinner-time,  and  at  night  at  the 
same  places.  Favoured  by  the  finest  weather,  we  set  out  on 
our  journey  on  the  9th  May  1826,  and  as  the  carriages  always 
kept  close  together,  we  exchanged  places  in  them  sometimes, 
always  took  our  meals  together , and  our  pleasant  and  spirited 
conversation  was  not  at  all  interrupted,  so  that  I never  re- 
collect having  made  a more  agreeable  journey. 

On  the  third  day  we  were  met  three  miles  from  Diissel- 
^orf  by  the  festival  committee  and  the  family  of  the  State- 
Councillor  van  Sybel , at  whose  house  I and  the  members  of 
my  family  were  to  stop;  and  scarcely  had  we  arrived  at 
Diisseldorf,  than  we  were  welcomed  by  the  choral-society  with 

8POHB,  Autobiography.  U.  H 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


162 


a serenade.  At  the  first  general  rehearsal,  which  was  held  on 
the  following  morning,  I had  the  satisfaction  of  finding  that 
my  oratorio  had  been  carefully  and  correctly  studied  by  the 
different  societies,  and  was  sung  with  an  enthusiastic  feeling 
for  the  work.  I could  not  feel  so  content  with  the  orchestra, 
which  had  been  gathered  together  from  different  places,  and 
in  which  dilettanti  assisted,  and  among  others,  my  friend 
Thomae  from  Cleves,  among  the  wind  instruments.  It  was 
therefore  a difficult  matter  to  bring  all  the  instruments  to  the 
same  pitch , and  it  could  only  be  effected  by  great  patience 
and  frequent  repetitions.  In  the  afternoon  of  the  same  day, 
the  rehearsal  of  the  performances  for  the  second  day  was 
held,  which  Ries  conducted.  At  it  were  given  a new  symphony 
by  Ries  (manuscript  D major),  a Sanctus  and  a Credo  from 
a mass  by  Frederick  Schneider , the  jubilee  overture  of  Carl 
Maria  von  Weber , and  lastly,  a selection  of  the  finest  “numbers” 
from  Handel's  “Messiah.”  As  Miss  Reinigen  of  Crefeld,  the 
solo  singer,  was  taken  suddenly  ill,  my  daughter  Emilia 
was  obliged  to  take  the  soprano  part  also  in  the  vocal 
performances.  But  so  diligently  did  she  study  it,  that  al- 
ready at  the  very  first  rehearsal  she  went  through  the  business 
right  well,  and  by  her  aid  all  derangement  of  the  festival  was 
obviated.  But  so  much  the  greater  was  Ries’s  difficulty  with 
the  wind  instruments  in  his  symphony.  He  nevertheless  dis- 
played in  the  matter  great  patience,  and  dealt  very  leniently 
with  the  awkwardness  of  the  dilettanti.  On  the  following  day 
were  held  two  more  rehearsals  of  the  performances  for  the  first 
and  second  day  of  Whitsuntide  (the  14th  and  15th  May), 
which  then,  after  such  careful  rehearsals  passed  off  without  a 
fault.  My  oratorio  was  received  with  such  enthusiasm  by  those 
who  played  and  by  the  auditory,  that  on  the  evening  of  the 
very  first  day,  the  prolongation  of  the  festival  was  mooted  in 
order  to  repeat  once  more  “Die  letzten  Dinge”  for  the  benefit 
of  the  Greeks.  This  was  publicly  announced  on  the  second 
day  of  the  performances,  and  the  majority  of  the  strangers  pre- 
sent stopped  in  order  to  be  present  at  its  repetition.  Thus 


Digitized  by 


Google 


163 


my  work  had  the  honour  conferred  upon  it  of  a second  per- 
formance, of  which  I might  well  be  proud,  as  since  then  so  far 
as  I know  of,  such  a thing  has  never  happened  to  any  work  given 
at  the  Rhenish  musical  festivals.  In  the  musical  journals,  also, 
there  appeared  several  very  favourable  notices  of  my  oratorio, 
and  I therefore  hastened  to  publish  selections  from  it  for  the 
pianoforte.  But  the  edition  I issued  was  soon  sold  off,  and  a 
second  was  therefore  published  afterwards  by  Simrock  of  Bonn, 
who  also  brought  out  the  song  parts  with  it,  by  which  the 
performances  of  the  work  in  almost  all  the  towns  of  Germany, 
Holland  and  Switzerland  was  very  much  facilitated.  I could 
therefore  be  very  content  with  the  reception  of  this  oratorio, 
and  frequently  as  it  was  performed  and  spoken  of,  no  voice 
was  ever  heard  raised  in  condemnation  of  it. 

In  the  course  of  this  year  I wrote  besides  a second  quintet 
( B flat  minor,  Op.  69,  published  by  Peters ) and  three  quartets 
(Op.  74,  also  by  Peters ).  But  I now  longed  to  begin  a greater 
work,  and  particularly  an  opera,  although  the  “Berg-Geist” 
acquired  no  extensive  popularity,  since,  after  the  representations 
in  Cassel  and  Leipzic,  it  was  only  given  at  Prague,  where  it 
met  several  times  with  a brilliant  reception.  As  Curschmann 
at  the  same  time  entertained  a similar  desire,  he  had  requested 
his  fellow-traveller  and  friend,  Charles  Pfeiffer,  who  at  that 
time  had  begun  to  make  himself  a name  as  a poet,  to  work 
up  a novel  of  TiecFs,  “Pietro  vonf  Abano”  as  an  opera  text. 
He  may  however  have  felt  himself  not  . yet  quite  sufficiently 
advanced  in  his  musical  culture,  and  therefore  when  Pfeiffer 
had  completed  the  first  act  of  the  libretto,  he  abandoned  his 
project  of  attempting  so  soon  a grand  opera.  He  now  offered 
me  the  composition  of  Pietro,  and  as  the  novel,  as  well  as 
the  manner  in  which  it  had  been  worked  up,  pleased  me 
greatly,  I soon  came  to  an  arrangement  with  both  gentle- 
men respecting  it,  and  in  February  1827,  set  to  work  very 
assiduously  upon  it,  and  completed  it  in  August  of  the  same 
year.  The  opera  occasioned  me  anxiety  at  first,  on  account 
of  the  immediate  succession  of  two  scenes  — a funeral,  and 

11* 


Digitized  by  Google 


164 


the  pranks  of  a band  of  merry  students  — so  strikingly  dis- 
similar and  incongruous  as  to  render  their  proximity  un- 
pleasant: neither  did  I as  all  like  the  speaking  part  of 
the  bishop , without  any  singing.  But  as  this  part  was 
taken  by  Seydelmann,  who  was  then  engaged  at  our  theatre 
from  pure  interest  he  took  in  the  work,  and  was  performed 
in  a very  dignified  manner,  I became  more  satisfied  with  it, 
and  had  the  gratification  of  finding  that  it  made  a deep  im- 
pression upon  the  performers,  the  orchestra,  and  my  musical 
friends  who  were  permitted  to  assist  at  the  rehearsals.  On 
its  first  representation,  on  the  13th  October  1827,  it  was  also 
received  by  the  public  with  a similar  enthusiasm  to  “Jessonda,” 
and  I had  therefore  reason  to  hope  that  like  it  also,  it  would 
soon  obtain  popularity  beyond  Cassel.  But  when  at  the  request 
of  the  directors  of  some  other  theatres  I forwarded  the  book 
to  them,  I soon  found  that  not  only  did  the  catholic  towns  dis- 
approve of  the  introduction  of  the  bishop  and  the  eccle- 
siastical forms  on  the  stage,  but  the  intendants  of  theatres  in 
protestant  towns,  also,  and  among  others,  Count  Briihl  in 
Berlin,  who  rejected  the  opera,  because  they  had  some  scruples 
about  the  contents.  At  that  time  it  is  true,  many  of  the  later 
operas  and  plays,  which  since  then  have  hardened  the  public 
against  all  objectionable  matter,  had  not  become  the  fashion 
of  the  day.  But  Meyerbeer , who  now  wanted  to  hear  the 
opera  with  all  these  circumstances  of  form,  expressed  himself 
in  regard  to  it  in  the  following  manner  in  a letter  of  the 
4.  March  1828:  “I  cannot  conclude  my  letter  without  thanking 
you  for  the  pleasure  that  the  perusal  of  the  score  of  your 
master-piece  “Pietro  von  Abano,”  which  Mr.  Schlesinger  lent 
to  me,  has  afforded  me,  and  I am  happy  to  be  able  to  say,  that 
in  particular  the  first  act,  the  first  finale  (although  only  fur- 
nished by  the  poet  with  two  personages),  the  scene  between 
Antonio  and  the  half-lifeless  Cecilia  in  the  second  act,  and 
the  ingenious  manner  in  which  the  stringed  instruments,  ha|f 
con  sordini,  half  senza  sordini , shadow  forth  the  dialogue  be- 
tween the  living  Antonio  and  the  spirit-like  Cecilia;  the  im- 


Digitized  by  CjOOQle 


165 


posing  finale  of  the  second  act;  and  besides  these,  numerous 
other  features  of  splendid  dramatic  intention,  excellent  decla- 
mation, novel,  picturesque  instrumentation  and  harmony,  have 
truly  charmed  me,  and  excited  in  me  the  most  ardent  desire 
to  be  present  at  a performance  of  your  master-piece.” 

In  the  year  1828,  I wrote  my  second  double-quartet,  and 
endeavoured  to  bring  it  nearer  to  my  first  idea  of  the  double 
choral  style,  than  the  first:  in  this  I succeeded  to  my  own 
satisfaction.  I played  it  for  the  first  time  publicly  in  one  of 
our  winter-concerts  of  December,  with  great  applause,  and  it 
soon  found  the  same  appreciation  and  publicity  in  other  places 
as  the  previous  one.  Shortly  afterwards  I received  an  invi- 
tation to  conduct  my  oratorio  “Die  letzten  Dinge”  at  a musical 
festival  that  was  to  take  place  at  Halberstadt  on  the  4th  June 
1828,  and  I set  out  this  time  accompanied  only  by  my  wife 
and  my  youngest  daughter  Thrnesa,  as  shortly  before,  my 
daughter  Emilia  had  married  a manufacturer  of  the  name  of 
Zahn , and  could  leave  her  domestic  concerns  as  little  as  Ida . 

My  oratorio  was  excellently  performed  by  the  different 
choral-societies  that  had  been  invited  for  that  purpose,  as  they 
were  all  enthusiastic  admirers  of  it,  and  gave  it  the  preference 
over  all  other  works  then  performed. 

At  the  second  concert  I played  my  new  concertino  in  A 
major  (Op.  79,  published  by  Schlesinger ),  and  I think  that, 
upon  the  same  occasion,  also,  my  just  finished  third  symphony 
in  C minor  (Op.  78,  also  published  by  Schlesinger ) was  then 
performed  for  the  first  time.  One  circumstance,  the  remem- 
brance of  which  is  still  impressed  upon  my  memory,  and  which 
relates  to  my  daughter  Theresa , then  nine  years  old,  I must 
yet  relate.  I took  the  child  with  me  to  all  the  rehearsals, 
as  she  would  always  attend  those  at  Diisseldorf,  and  I augured 
from  that,  a great  love  for  music.  In  Halberstadt  Theresa 
expressed  especial  pleasure  in  the  concluding  “number”  of  the 
oratorio,  and  as  that  was  a fugue  on  the  words:  “His  is  the 
kingdom,  the  power,  and  glory,”  I furthermore  concluded  that 
she  had  not  only  a strong  sentiment  for  music  generally,  but 


Digitized  by 


Google 


166 


also  for  its  graver  forms,  and  I even  imparted  to  Dorette  the 
pleasure  I felt  at  the  happy  disposition  of  our  child.  But 
when  I questioned  Theresa  more  closely  respecting  her  pre- 
ference for  the  fugue,  I was  informed  to  my  great  surprise 
and  to  my  shame,  “that  she  only  liked  the  piece  of  music 
in  question  better  than  all  the  rest,  because  she  knew,  that, 
as  at  Dusseldorf,  the  rehearsal  would  soon  be  over,  and  that 
then  we  should  go  home  to  dinner /”  — Shortly  afterwards 
I received  from  the  parties  who  got  up  this  musical  festival 
a permanent,  and  more  gratifying  cause  to  remember  the 
same;  for  they  sent  me,  as  a mark  of  their  gratitude,  a 
costly  table-clock,  ornamented  with  appropriate  emblems,  and 
bearing  on  the  pedestale  an  inscription,  with  the  date. 

In  the  course  of  the  year  I wrote  three  more  violin-quartets, 
which  were  published  by  Schlesinger  as  Op.  82,  after  which, 
as  I was  not  very  successful  with  my  operas  upon  other  stages, 
I turned  once  more  to  church  music,  and  in  the  spring  of 
1829,  wrote  my  “Lord’s  prayer,”  on  the  text  of  Mahlmanv . 
The  effect  which  this  work  produced  at  its  first  performance, 
although  only  with  pianoforte  accompaniment,  on  the  festival 
of  St.  Cecilia  the  same  year,  was  greatly  increased,  when 
a few  months  afterwards  it  was  given  at  one  of  our  winter- 
concerts  with  full  orchestral  accompaniment.  It  was  not  only 
received  here  in  Cassel  upon  every  repetition  up  to  more 
recent  times,  with  great  approbation,  but  it  soon  found  much 
approval  in  other  places  also. 

On  the  4th  June  1829,  another  musical  festival  took  place 
at  Nordhausen,  to  which  I was  also  invited.  Of  the  first  day’s 
performance  I have  nevertheless,  now  no  clear  recollection; 
but  on  the  second  day  I played  with  Muller  of  Brunswick, 
with  Wide  of  this  place,  and  with  Maurer  of  Hannover,  a con- 
certante  for  four  violins,  of  the  composition  of  the  latter.  For 
myself,  I chose  to  play  the  fourth,  on  the  occasion,  as  my 
Stradivari-violin  had  a particularly  good  tone  on  the  G 
string,  and  as  we  had  practised  together  that  celebrated  piece 


Digitized  by  Google 


167 


of  music  very  assiduously,  the  applause  was  quite  extraordinary. 
My  new  clarinet- concerto  in  E flat , which  I had  written 
for  Hermstcdt  for  this  musical  festival,  met  with  no  less  ap- 
probation, but  it  is  no  longer  in  my  possession,  neither  do  I 
now  know  whether  it  is  still  in  existence.  During  our  stay 
in  Nordhausen,  we  lived  in  the  house  of  a Mr.  Fleck,  a mer- 
chant, whose  wife  was  a very  amiable  hostess.  One  day  at 
dinner,  Edward  Grund  my  former  pupil,  was  prompted  to 
propose  a toast  to  her,  in  doing  which  be  introduced  the  ob- 
servation that  she  “was  anything  but  a Fleck*  in  human 
society,  but  much  rather  to  be  called  a gleam  of  light.”  I also 
remember  still  with  pleasure  the  beautiful  weather  that  favoured 
the  dinner  which  the  people  of  Nordhausen  gave  to  their 
guests  upon  a neighbouring  hill  which  commanded  a view  of 
the  town.  The  collation  was  spread  upon  the  greensward, 
and  as  good  wine  was  by  no  means  wanting,  the  company 
soon  became  very  merry,  and  returned  to  town  in  the  best 
possible  humour. 

In  August  1829,  I wrote  a solo-quartet  in  E major 
(Op.  83,  published  by  Schlesinger) . But  my  desire  to  try  my 
fortune  once  more  with  an  opera  gave  me  no  rest,  and  I 
therefore  persuaded  my  friend  Charles  Pfeiffer  to  work  up  for 
me  the  subject  of  a Spanish  novel  by  Washington  Irving,  that 
seemed  to  me  very  attractive,  and  in  every  respect  adapted  for 
an  opera.  But  as  Pfeiffer's  name  could  not  be  mentioned  in 
the  playbills,  as  in  the  electorate  of  Hesse  it  is  not  considered 
becoming  for  a servant  of  the  state  to  occupy  himself  with 
poetical  works  together  with  his  official  duties,  the  indetect- 
able  name  of  Schmidt  was  chosen  instead  of  his ; just  as  when 
“Pietro”  was  brought  out  the  author’s  name  was  not  mentioned, 
as  Feige,  then  the  director  of  the  theatre,  did  not  like  to  be 
responsible  to  the  Elector  and  the  public  for  permitting  a 
fictitious  name  proposed  by  me  to  be  placed  upon  the  play- 
bill. — In  October  1829,  I,  therefore,  with  my  usual  zeal,  with 

*)  Fleck,  in  the  German  language,  signifies,  a spot,  stain,  or  blemish. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


168 


every  new  work,  set  about  the  composition  of  the  opera  of 
the  “Alchymist,”  completed  it  in  April  of  the  following  year, 
and  immediately  distributed  the  parts,  in  order  to  perform  it 
on  the  ‘28th  July,  the  birthday  of  the  Elector.  It  pleased  here 
in  Cassel  quite  as  much  as  my  previous  operas,  but  out  of 
Hesse  was  represented  at  Prague  only,  though  with  great 
approbation;*  while  the  selections  made  from  it  for  the  piano- 
forte, arranged  by  my  brother  Ferdinand,  found  a more  wide- 
spread publicity. 

In  June  1830  Paganini  came  to  Cassel  and  gave  two 
concerts  in  the  theatre,  which  I heard  with  great  interest. 
His  left  hand,  and  his  constantly  pure  intonation  were  to  me 
astonishing.  But  in  his  compositions,  and  his  execution  I found 
a strange  mixture  of  the  highly  genial  and  childishly  tasteless, 
by  which  one  felt  alternately  charmed  and  disappointed,  so  that 
the  impression  left  as  a whole  was,  after  frequent  hearing,  by 
no  means  satisfactory  to  me.  As  his  visit  took  place  just  on 
Whitsunday,  I took  him  the  next  day  to  Wilhelmshohe,  where 
he  dined  with  me,  and  was  very  lively,  indeed  somewhat  extra- 
vagantly so. 

A few  months  afterwards  the  revolution  of  July  broke  out 
in  France,  and  as  a general  excitement  had  extended  itself  to 
Germany  also,  symptoms  of  discontent  with  the  public  author- 
ities showed  themselves  also  here  in  Cassel.  Just  previously, 
the  Elector  had  gone  to  Vienna,  accompanied  by  the  Countess 

*)  In  the  Vienna  “Musicalischer  Anzeiger”  of  the  23rd  January  1834  is 
the  following  notice  respecting  it:  “All  who  have  had  the  opportunity  of 
hearing  and  judging  for  themselves,  know  and  feel  that  the  esteemed 
maestro,  in  all  his  dramatic  compositions,  with  the  exception  of  the  single, 
purely  genial'uFaust,”  introduces  his  hearers  less  into  the  wondrous  realm 
of  fancy,  than  he  leads  them  like  a true  friend,  by  pleasant  meandering 
paths  through  the  charming  and  balmy  groves  of  harmony.  This  work 
also,  breathes  the  same  calm,  reflective  spirit  that  speaks  to  the  heart, 
the  same  pure  taste,  the  same  style,  a9  noble  as  it  is  elegant,  the  same 
constancy,  unity  and  well-sustained  interior  connection,  that  so  parti- 
cularly characterizes  all  the  works  of  this  perhaps  most  substantial  of  all 
living  composers,  and  which  distinguish  also  no  less  this  musical  creation.” 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


169 


Reicheribach,  with  the  object,  as  it  was  believed,  of  effecting  at 
the  Austrian  court  the  elevation  of  that  personage  to  the 
dignity  of  a princess.  He  had  afterwards  repaired  to  Carls- 
bad, and  from  there  came  all  manner  of  strange  reports 
about  his  serious  illness,  resulting  from  some  personal  conflicts 
with  the  Countess  Reichenbach , on  account  of  which,  his  phy- 
sician Mr.  Herdus,  proceeded  to  Carlsbad,  but  not  having  been 
admitted  to  an  audience,  returned  to  Cassel.  A deputation 
from  the  members  of  the  privy  council  was  hereupon  sent 
to  Carlsbad;  was  received  several  times  by  the  elector,  and 
brought  back  intelligence  that  he  would  shortly  return  to  his 
capital.  Before  this  took  place  however,  on  the  evening  of 
the  6th  September,  disturbancees  broke  out.  I was  at  the  mo- 
ment with  my  wife  at  the  theatre,  where  RaupacKs  comedy 
“Der  Zeitgeist”  was  being  performed,  and  I remarked  on  a 
sudden,  that  messengers  had  been  sent  to  the  officers  who 
were  present,  informing  then  that  “the  alarm”  had  been 
sounded  in  the  town,  and  upon  this  they  all  immediately  left. 
This  created  so  much  sensation  in  the  house,  that  the  rest  of 
the  audience  thought  that  nothing  less  than  a great  fire  had 
broken  out  in  the  town,  and  they  also  left  the  house  in  the 
midst  of  the  performance.  Fearing  for  the.  safety  of  our  own 
and  our  children’s  dwellings,  we  went  out  with  the  rest, 
and  were  at  length  informed  that  the  excited  people  had 
riotously  attacked  several  bakers’  shops,  and  committed  depre- 
dation in  the  houses  of  the  owners,  because,  notwithstanding 
the  fall  that  had  taken  place  in  the  price  of  corn,  they  had 
raised  the  price  of  bread.  In  order  to  prevent  further  excesses 
on  the  part  of  the  populace,  a number  of  the  citizens  had,  with 
the  consent  of  the  ministry,  taken  up  arms,  and  the  military 
occupied  not  only  the  electoral  palace,  but  the  Konigstrasse 
and  the  Friederichsplatz,  so  that  the  people  leaving  the  theatre 
could  not  pass  through  the  closed  streets.  We  were  therefore 
compelled  to  make  a circuit  to  reach  our  house  and  when 
arrived  there,  dared  not  retire  to  rest  at  the  usual  hour,  as 
the  commotion  that  prevailed  in  the  town  was  still  very  great. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


170 


The  Elector  did  not  return  till  the  12th  September,  but  at 
first  unaccompanied  by  the  Countess  Reichenbach , and  with  the 
greatest  privacy.  He  immediately  proceeded  to  Wilhelmsholie, 
whither,  a few  days  after,  the  magistracy  with  chief-burgo- 
master Schomburg  at  their  head,  followed  him,  to  express  their 
pleasure  at  his  convalescence  and  return;  as  also  to  petition 
him  to  assemble  the  estates,  which  had  not  been  done  since 
1815,  and  to  advise  with  them  upon  the  alleviation  of  many 
existing  grievances.  The  magistracy  was  nevertheless  not  ad- 
mitted to  an  audience  till  the  following  morning  in  the  elec- 
toral palace  at  Cassel,  during  which,  half  the  town  had  collected 
on  the  Friedrichsplatz,  in  order  to  ascertain  immediately 
whether  the  result  of  the  deputation  was  successful,  and  if 
such  should  be  the  case  the  master- cooper  Herbold , had  agreed 
to  make  it  known  to  the  people  by  waving  a white  handker- 
chief from  the  window  of  the  chamber  of  audience.  When 
therefore  the  deputation  in  solemn  procession  from  the  Ober- 
Neustadter  town-hall,  approached  the  palace,  and  had  crossed 
its  threshold,  all  eyes  were  directed  to  the  windows  of  the 
audience-chamber,  and  the  decision  was  anxiously  awaited. 

The  Elector,  to  whose  ears  doubtless  many  disquieting  re- 
ports had  come,  and  who  could  place  no  dependance  on  his 
troops  (many  of  whom,  as  at  a latter  period  was  shown, 
desired  a constitution)  for  the  protection  of  his  palace  and  the 
successful  suppression  of  the  revolution,  gave,  to  the  universal 
joy  of  the  people  a satisfactory  reply.  Scarcely  had  the  waving 
of  the  white  handkerchief  announced  this  to  the  populace, 
than  the  assembled  thousands  upon  the  Friedrichsplatz  rent 
the  air  with  deafening  cheers  of  Long  live  the  Elector!  upon  which 
he  shewed  himself  for  a moment  at  one  of  the  windows , and 
acknowledged  them  with  several  bows,  in  the  evening  the  town 
was  spohtaneously  illuminated,  and  at  the  theatre,  instead  of 
the  previously  announced  piece  of  the  “Ahnfrau”  the  aBarber 
of  Seville”  was  chosen,  and  the  public  in  their  delight  at  the 
appearance  of  the  Elector  and  his  son  before  the  beginning 
of  the  opera,  greeted  him  with  tumultuous  cheers,  and  struck 


Digitized  by 


Google 


171 


up  the  “Hail  to  the  elector  Wilhelm.”  This  was  followed  on 
the  19th  of  September  by  the  promised  summoning  of  the 
ancient  estates  of  Hesse,  consisting  of  deputies  from  the  nobles, 
the  towns,  the  universities  and  the  peasanty,  who  assembled  on 
the  16th  October,  and  immediately  promulgated  a satisfactory 
report  to  the  people.  On  the  following  day  the  opening  of  the 
assembly  of  the  states  was  celebrated  by  the  performance  of 
divine  service  in  the  great  church,  and  by  command  of  the 
government  by  a solemn  choral  hymn  sung  by  the  society  of 
St.  Cecilia  accompanied  by  the  court  orchestra.  For  this 
occasion  I selected  the  last  “number”  of  my  cantata  composed 
in  Vienna,  “Die  Befreiung  Deutschlands”  (The  emancipation  of 
Germany),  with  its  solo-quartet,  and  the  concluding  fugue: 
“Lasset  uns  den  Dankgesang  erheben”  ( Let  us  raise  the  the  song 
of  thanks),  a four-voice  choral  piece  which  was  alternately 
sung,  with  the  congregation,  and  the  Halleluja  from  HiindeVs 
Messiah.” 

The  propositions  brought  forward  by  the  estates,  after 
several  weeks’  discussion  between  the  electoral  commissaries 
and  the  deputies,  were  with  various  additions  and  modifications, 
admitted  as  basis  of  the  new  constitution  of  the  state  as  well 
as  for  the  propositions  made  by  the  Elector  respecting  a 
fixed  amount  for  a civil  list,  and  division  of  the  whole  of  the 
state  revenues,  which  besides  had  been  chiefly  accumulated 
from  the  sale  of  the  men  taken  into  the  pay  of  the  English 
to  fight  against  the  revolted  North -American  colonies  during 
the  time  of  the  Elector  Friedrich  II.  The  9th  January  1831 
was  the  day  fixed  for  the  promulgation  of  the  new  constitution, 
and  on  the  evening  of  the  day  before,  the  Electress  came  back 
with  her  daughter  Caroline  from  Fulda,  where  she  had  been 
residing  for  some  time  past,  in  order  to  be  present  at  this 
joyful  event.  The  elector  received  her  upon  his  arrival  at  her 
residence  in  the  Belle-vue  palace , and  I received  order  from 
the  officer  of  the  lord  marshal  of  the  court,  to  give  the  re- 
conciled couple  a serenade  with  the  court  orchestra.  After  j 
had  held  the  rehearsal  in  the  course  of  the  afternoon  for 


Digitized  by 


Google 


172 


that  purpose,  I proceeded  with  the  orchestra  in  exceedingly  cold 
weather  to  the  Belle-vue  palace,  and  having  ascertained  the 
apartment  in  which  the  court  was  assembled  we  drew  up  out- 
side and  played  as  well  as  the  extremely  unfavourable  weather 
would  permit.  Towards  the  end  of  the  music  the  princely 
pair  shewed  themselves,  the  Elector  embraced  his  wife  at  the 
window,  and  the  inhabitants  of  Cassel,  who  in  spite  of  the 
cold  had  collected  ~in’ crowds , broke  out  into  a loud  cheer  of 
joy.  The  next  morning  the  public  announcement  of  the  new 
constitution  was  made,  and  the  oaths  were  taken  with  due 
solemnity  on  the  part  of  the  civic-guard  publicly  upon  the 
Konigsplatz , on  that  of  the  military  on  the  Friedrichsplatz, 
and  by  all  the  authorities,  the  court  officials  and  the  orchestra 
in  their  proper  localities.  In  the  evening  the  town  was  illu- 
minated, and  at  the  theatre,  brilliantly  lighted  up,  “Jessonda” 
was  given  as  festive  opera  for  the  occasion,  preceded  by  a 
play  written  for  the  occasion  by  counsellor  Niemeyer.  In  the 
latter  was  introduced  at  the  same  time  a hymn  composed  for 
it  by  me,  “Hesse’s  song  of  joy  on  the  establishment  of  its  con- 
stitution;” and  at  the  conclusion,  the  well-known  and  previously 
mentioned  melody,  which,  with  appropriate  words,  was  sung  also 
by  the  audience , after  which  the  latter  greeted  the  electoral 
family  assembled  in  the  state  box  with  a storm  of  cheers.  Every- 
body now  looked  forward  to  a happy  future ; but  unfortunately 
the  Countess  Beichenbach , with  her  brother  Mr.  Ortlepp , returned 
the  day  after  to  Wilhelmshohe.  This  had  no  sooner  become 
known  in  Cassel,  as  also  that  the  elector  had  visited  her  there, 
than  the  disturbances  immediately  broke  out  afresh.  Citizens 
and  peasantry  gathered  in  crowds  before  the  palace  at  Wil- 
helmshohe, and  threatened  aloud  to  drive  the  countess  out  by 
force,  until  it  was  at  length  ascertainecj  that  she  had  left  for 
Hanau , and  a public  announcement  was  placarded  in  Cassel : 
“that  the  cause  for  the  disturbance  had  been  removed.”  But 
a few  weeks  afterwards  the  Elector  followed  her,  as  it  was 
thought  to  take  up  his  residence  altogether  at  Hanau. 

Meanwhile  at  my  house  the  construction  of  an  additional 


Digitized  by 


Google 


173 


building  which  had  been  begun  the  previous  summer  from  a 
plan  drawn  by  my  son-in-law  Wolff  was  completed.  By  this, 
in  addition  to  somewhat  more  house-room,  I obtained  more 
particularly  a music  room  such  as  we  had  long  felt  the  want 
of  for  our  quartet  parties,  which  although  closely  adjoining 
the  house  itself,  had  nevertheless  a higher  roof,  in  order  to 
give  it  the  desired  height.  In  its  decoration  also,  the  chief 
endeavour  was  to  obtain  a favourable  acoustic  arrangement, 
so  as  to  dispense  with  all  drapery  over  the  windows  and  doors, 
which  is  so  obstructive  of  sound.  On  the  2nd  February  1831, 
we  consecrated  the  newly-acquired  space  with  the  celebration 
of  our  “Silver  Wedding” ; at  which  my  parents  from  Ganders- 
heim  were  come  to  assist,  and  had  brought  with  them  as  a 
present  a porcelain  vase  richly  ornamented  with  silver,  upon 
which,  besides  the  names  of  the  donors,  was  engraved  the  in- 
scription: “May  the  silver  of  to-day  be  one  day  gold!”  This 
fete,  properly  speaking  was  got  up  by  my  children,  in  con- 
junction with  our  musical  friends,  and  was  opened  by  the 
torch-light  dance  from  my  “Faustus”  executed  by  the  guests, 
with  appropriate  words  to  the  choral  parts.  This  was  followed 
by  a succession  of  “Tableaux  vivants,”  in  which  the  chief  in- 
cidents of  my  life  were  ingeniously  represented.  Among  many 
other  poems  both  of  comic  and  serious  import,  which  were 
recited  at  table , my  friend  Pfeiffer  had  also  contributed  a 
composition  with  the  view,  that  all  the  persons  present  should 
appear  in  the  costume  of  the  characters  in  my  operas,  and 
that  K.  Pfeiffer  himself  should  recite  the  poem.  This  poem 
gave  me  great  pleasure  at  the  time,  and  its  recital,  with 
all  its  allusions,  excited  general  merriment,  and  no  one  would 
have  dreamed  that  its  youthful  author  would  be  snatched  in 
a few  months  by  death  from  our  circle.  Early  in  the  morning 
of  the  31st  July,  while  bathing  in  the  river  Fulda,  he  was 
struck  with  apoplexy,  and  his  beautiful  and  diversified  labours 
in  literature  were  suddenly  arrested  for  ever.  For  his  obsequies 
I composed  a solemn  dirge  for  several  voices,  and  subse- 
quently, when  the  civil  guard  of  this  place  had  a monu- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


174 


mental  memorial  erected  over  his  early  grave,  upon  its  con- 
secration the  chorus  from  “The  last  things,”  “Selig  sind  die 
Todten,”  was  sung  by  the  St.  Cecilia  society  with  the  assistance 
also  of  its  female  members,  a circumstance  which  upon  no 
previous  occasion  of  the  kind  had  ever  taken  place  in  Cassel. 
Dr.  B.  W.  Pfeiffer , the  father  of  the  deceased,  who  previously 
had  been  known  to  me  only  in  his  official  capacity  as  chief 
advocate  of  the  court  of  appeal,  visited  me  upon  the  occasion 
to  thank  me  for  my  attention,  and  in  this  manner  I first  be- 
came personally  intimate  with  him,  to  wThom  I was  at  a later 
period  to  be  more  nearly  allied  as  son-in-law. 

Unhappily  that  was  the  last  family  rejoicing  which  my 
brother  Ferdinand  lived  to  see.  He  shortly  after  fell  so  se- 
riously ill  that  the  physicians  immediately  pronounced  him  irre- 
coverable, and  I was  present  a few  days  afterwards  when  he 
breathed  his  last.  As  his  widow,  in  spite  of  all  her  solici- 
tations, received  no  pension  from  the  bure.au  of  intendance, 
and  was  therefore  reduced  to  the  small  income  paid  to  her  from 
the  relief-fund  which  I had  instituted  a few  years  before,  I 
set  aside  for  her  subsistence  a yearly  allowance , with  the  aid 
of  which  she  was  enabled  to  give  a good  education  to  both  her 
children  and  to  allow  her  son  Ludwig , my  godson,  to  prepare 
himself  for  his  collegiate  studies.  After  some  years  of  diligent 
study,  with  a view  of  going  to  the  university  of  Marburg,  the 
young  fellow  returned  to  his  earlier  expressed  desire  to  devote 
himself  entirely  to  music.  Upon  a closer  examination,  however, 
this  did  not  seem  to  me  advisable,  as  it  was  now  too  late  for 
him  to  acquire  the  necessary  thorough  musical  education,  and 
by  my  advice  he  adhered  to  his  chosen  profession  of  the  law, 
passed  a brilliant  examination  in  1847,  and  entered  into  the 
official  service  of  the  electorate  of  Hesse. 

In  the  month  of  April  in  pursuance  of  the  new  constitu- 
tion, the  first  assembly  of  the  estates  upon  the  basis  of  the 
new  election  law  was  summoned,  and  held  its  sittings  in  a 
saloon  of  the  Belle-vue  palace.  Schomburg,  the  burgomaster 
of  the  capital,  was  unanimously  chosen  as  its  president,  and 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


175 


the  government  did  not  dare  oppose  his  nomination.  As 
the  sittings  were  public*,  this  awakened  immediately  an  active 
political  vitality  in  the  town,  n,nd  the  debates  were  followed 
up  to  the  conclusion  of  the  session  with  great  interest  by  all 
classes.  Professor  Sylvester  Jordan , the  deputy  from  the 
Marburg  university,  soon  distinguished  himself  by  his  eloquence, 
and  he  almost  always  succeeded  in  carrying  through  his  liberal 
motions  in  the  assembly. 

In  order  to  extend  these  liberal  sentiments  among  the  in- 
habitants of  Cassel,  some  men  well  known  for  their  liberal 
opinions  considered  it  requisite  to  form  a political  club,  under 
the  name  of  the  “reading  museum,”  and  I willingly  joined  my 
exertions  to  theirs.  At  this  place  every  afternoon  during  the 
session,  the  various  subjects  which  had  been  discussed  in  the 
chamber  were  made  known.  The  sittings  of  the  deputies  were 
often  very  stormy  ones,  though  the  chairman  reprimanded  the 
non-members  every  time  they  applauded  a speaker,  and  threat- 
ened to  have  all  disturbers  turned  out  by  the  civic  guard,  yet 
the  daily  visitors  at  the  sitting  did  not  much  care  about  it 
and  still  endeavoured  to  influence  the  voting.  But  the  ad- 
ministration of  public  affairs  suffered  considerable  detriment 
from  the  circumstance  that  the  Elector  had  quitted  his  palace 
at  Cassel  since  March,  and  taken  up  his  residence  permanently, 
at  Hanau.  As  the  assembled  estates  had  failed  in  all  their 
repeated  efforts  to  persuade  him  to  return  to  Cassel,  they  re- 
solved towards  the  end  of  August,  in  conjunction  with  the 
town  council  of  Cassel,  to  send  a deputation  to  Hanau,  with 
the  proposition  that  the  Elector  should  either  return  without 
delay  to  the  capital  or  adopt  means  for  the  undisturbed  ad- 
ministration of  affairs.  The  deputy  from  Rinteln,  Wiederhold, 
president  of  the  high  court  of  judicature,  was  one  of  the  de- 
putation, and  he  succeeded  in  inducing  the  Elector  to  take  his 
son  as  co-regent  with  him  in  the  government,  and  to  transfer  the 
administration  of  affairs  to  him  exclusively  so  long  as  he  him- 
self remained  away  from  Cassel.  Thus  the  young  Prince,  after 
a long  residence  at  Fulda,  returned  to  Cassel  as  co-regent. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


176 


together  with  the  Countess  Schaumburg , with  whose  morganatic 
marriage  with  his  son  the  Elector  now  expressed  himself  re- 
conciled. The  Prince  delivered  to  the  estates  a deed  of 
agreement  concerning  the  solemn  maintenance  of  the  con- 
stitutional laws,  and  was  at  first  received  at  Cassel  with 
satisfaction , particularly  as  he  nominated  the  mediator, 
Wiederhold,  minister  of  justice.  But  as  it  was  soon  observed 
that  the  Electress,  on  account  of  her  refusal  to  acknowledge 
the  Countess  Schaumburg  as  her  daughter-in-law,  experienced 
many  annoyances  and  affronts,  considerable  disapprobation 
was  displayed  in  the  town,  and  all  classes  generally  sided  with 
the  amiable  Electress,  who  by  her  kind  sentiments  and  mild 
manners  had  for  long  years  acquired  the  love  and  respect  of 
the  people  of  Hesse.  As  for  me,  I had,  however,  to  congra- 
tulate myself  on  being  in  favour  with  the  Prince  at  that 
time;  and  he  requested  me  to  make  arrangements  for  giving 
him  some  court  concerts  at  the  palace  of  Wilhelmshohe.  Upon 
his  returning  shortly  to  the  town  he  even  requested  me  in  a 
very  courteous  letter,  to  afford  him  and  the  Countess  the  pleas- 
ure of  hearing  some  of  my  quartets,  and  to  arrange  for  that 
purpose  a quartet  party  at  the  palace.  It  would  seem,  however, 
to  have  been  a somewhat  tedious  affair  for  them,  for  I never 
received  a second  invitation. 

In  the  autumn  1831  I finished  my  “Violin-Schule”  (course 
of  instruction  for  the  violin)  a work  which  I had  undertaken 
at  the  solicitation  of  many  persons , and  on  which  I was  en- 
gaged for  more  than  a twelvemonth,  having  always  begun 
between-whiles  some  other  compositions  which  had  more  at- 
traction for  me.* 


* It  was  published  by  HasUnger,  in  Vienna,  and  the  “ Wiener  Theater- 
Zeitung conducted  by  Ad.  Bduerle , speaks  of  it  in  the  following  manner: 
A fit  companion  to  Hummel1 8 *Clavier-Schule,  (pianoforte  school);  for  in 
the  same  way  that  that  opens  a new  department  of  education  in  piano- 
forte play,  this  embraces  the  whole  art  and  science  of  violin  play,  and 
lays  down  clear  principles  for  an  art  which  hitherto  has  been  taught 
more  by  oral  precepis,  or,  at  the  utmost,  by  small  fragmentary  pamphlets. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


177 


I afterwards  wrote  three  quartets,  which  were  published 
as  Op.  84,  by  Andre  of  Offenbach,  and  later  for  the  St.  Ce- 
cilia society  three  psalms  of  Moses  Mendelsohn’s  translation 
for  two  four-voice  chorals  and  four  solo-voices,  which  were 
published  by  Simroch  of  Bonn  [Op.  85],  and  had  an  extensive 
circulation. 

In  the  summer  of  1832  I was  ordered  by  my  physician 
to  proceed  to  the  well-known  warm  sulphur  baths  of  Nenndorf, 
to  cure  a stiffness  in  one  of  my  knees,  and  which  I had 
contracted  the  preceeding  winter  from  a cold  caught  while 
skating.  My  wife,  who  accompanied  me,  had  taken  with  her 

It  required  the  penetrating,  searching  mind  of  a Spohr,  who  surpasses  in 
complete  scientific  culture  the  authors  of  every  existing  school,  to  con- 
dense in  systematic  order  so  important  a branch  of  art,  which  has  been 
two  centuries  in  acquiring  shape;  so  that  the  violin , so  prominent  in  all 
music,  may  be  cultivated  upon  sure  and  proper  principles,  and  its  study 
carried  out  with  certain  success.  How  well  the  great  maestro  Spohr  goes 
to  work  to  effect  this  we  shall  shew  in  a subsequent  clearer  exposition 
of  the  contents;  for  he  has  not  only  copiously  treated  the  scientific  mu- 
sical culture  of  the  pupil  by  the  clear  outspoken  method  of  the  instruction 
in  the  explanatory  text,  assisted  by  the  excellent  and  appropriate  pieces 
which  he  supplies  for  practice,  but  also,  in  the  mechanical  part  of  the 
instruction,  in  which  the  mechanism  of  the  human  body  is  so  beautifully 
and  appositely  shewn  in  all  its  bearings  on  the  mechanical  structure  of 
the  instrument.  The  excellent  preface  to  the  work  presents  rules  of  con- 
duct both  for  the  instructors  and  parents  of  pupils  for  the  obviation  of 
a host  of  evils  which  have  hitherto  arisen  from  false  and  erroneous  modes 
of  proceeding,  from  the  circumstance  that  few  lovers  of  music,  and  few 
teachers  of  music  even,  are  sufficiently  acquainted  with  these  arcana  of 
the  art.  Well  and  clearly  does  he  enumerate  the  means  of  encourage- 
ment by  which  the  industry  of  the  pupil  may  be  incited.  How  generous 
is  the  invitation  of  the  famed  master  to  the  students  of  the  violin , that 
they  should  impart  to  him  their  experience  in  the  progress  of  their  stu- 
dies of  his  code  of  instruction  for  violin-play,  for  the  further  extension  of 
his  own  knowledge!  In  this  the  great  earnestness  of  the  true  artist 
for  the  attainment  of  the  one  great  object  is  made  conspicuously  evi- 
dent.”   The  notice  concludes  with  the  following  words:  “The 

world-famed  master,  Spohr , has  by  this  excellent  work  done  ensured  an 
undying  celebrity,  and  thereby  added  but  a new  and  beautiful  leaf  to 
the  laurel  wreathe  that  encircles  his  brows.” 

8P0HB,  Autobiography.  IL  i o 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


178 


among  other  books,  a volume  of  the  poems  of  my  friend 
Pfeiffer , which  were  not  published  till  after  his  decease;  and 
as  I had  long  wished  to  set  something  from  it  to  music  in 
memory  of  him,  I chose  one  of  them:  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone,” 
which  pleased  me  very  much,  and  appeared  to  me  particularly 
well  suited  for  the  composition  of  a cantata.  But  when  1 
was  about  to  begin  the  work,  I found  that  the  text  of  this 
style  of  poem  did  not  lend  itself  altogether  well  to  it;  and  I 
felt  much  more  disposed  to  represent  the  subject  matter  of  the 
poem  in  an  instrumental-composition ; in  this  manner  originated 
my  fourth  symphony,  under  the  title:  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone.” 
[In  a letter  to  Speyer  of  the  9th  October  1832,  this  is  adverted 
to  in  the  following  words : Although  I have  now  no  duties  to 
perform  at  the  theatre,5"  and  have  had  leisure  sufficient  for 
composition,  I have  nevertheless  been  but  little  disposed  lat- 
terly, to  set  to  work.  From  the  great  interest  which  I took 
and  still  constantly  take  in  the  political  regeneration  of  Ger- 
many, the  recent  retrograde  steps  have  too  much  annoyed  me 
to  permit  of  my  giving  myself  calmly  to  any  work  of  deep 
study.  Nevertheless  I have  again  lately  completed  a grand 
instrumental  composition,  and  that  is  a fourth  symphony,  but 
which  differs  greatly  in  form  from  the  previous  ones.  It  is  a 
musical  composition  inspired  by  a poem  of  Karl  Pfeiffer's : “Die 
Weihe  der  Tone,”  which  must  be  printed,  and  distributed  in 
the  music  room,  or  recited  aloud  before  it  is  performed.  In 
the  very  first  part,  I had  for  task,  the  construction  of  a har- 
monious whole  from  the  sounds  of  nature.  This,  as  indeed 
the  whole  work,  was  a difficult,  but  a highly  attractive  pro- 
blem,” &c.] 

My  musical  friends  in  Hannover,  and  friend  Hausmann 
at  the  head  of  them,  had  no  sooner  become  informed  of  my 
presence  in  Nenndorf,  than  they  apprised  me  of  their  intention 
to  pay  me  a visit , and  to  bring  their  instruments  with  them, 
so  that  I had  an  opportunity  of  giving  the  lovers  of  music 

* The  court  theatre  was  closed  at  this  time. 


Digitized  by  Google 


179 


then  in  Nenndorf  a music-party,  at  which  I played  my  recently 
written  quartet.  Meanwhile  my  cure  was  successfully  completed, 
and  I was  relieved  of  my  lameness  of  the  knee,  chiefly  by  a 
powerful  but  very  painful  douche  upon  the  suffering  part. 
Returned  to  Gassel,  I first  of  all  finished  my  new  symphony, 
and  let  my  friends  hear  it  at  a rehearsal,  and  subsequently 
at  a subscription  concert.  I still  recollect  with  pleasure  the 
great  effect  it  produced  upon  all  who  heard  it.  It  was  after- 
wards given  with  great  applause  at  the  Gewandhaus  concert 
in  Leipzic,  and  Rochlitz  wrote  a very  animated  notice  of  the 
work  in  his  Musical  Journal.  None  of  my  symphonies  can 
boast  of  having  achieved  so  wide  a circulation  in  almost  all 
the  towns  of  Germany ; it  is  still  a favorite  work,  and  in  most 
permanent  concerts  is  played  at  least  once  every  year. 

In  April  1832,  by  order  of  the  Prince,  the  court 
theatre  was  closed  “for  an  indefinite  period,”  all  the  singers 
and  comedians,  with  thfe  exception  of  those  who  had  contracts 
of  engagement  for  a longer  period,  having  previously  received 
due  notice  of  dismissal.  Two  singers  only,  messieurs  Foppel 
and  Rosner  (whose  wife  was  the  prima  donna)  could  not  be 
comprised  in  this  decision.  Together  with  the  orchestra,  I 
was  also  summoned  to  attend;  all  who  had  no  rescript  from 
the  elector  received  notice  of  dismissal,  and  we  others  were 
asked  whether  we  were  disposed  to  resign  our  places  for  an 
indemnification  to  be  agreed  upon  with  each  individual  se- 
parately. I,  who  had  first  to  give  my  answer  to  this  proposal 
on  the  part  of  the  administration,  immediately  declared  that 
I was  not  disposed  to  agree  to  it,  but  would  abide  by  my 
engagement,  and,  should  it  become  necessary,  would  maintain 
my  right  before  the  proper  tribunal.  The  other  musicians 
also  at  once  pronounced  their  adhesion  to  my  declaration,  and 
we  thus  lost  one  hautboy  player  only,  whom  I had  at  an  early 
period  engaged  at  Prague  by  the  authority  of  the  elector,  to 
make  up  the  complement  of  the  orchestra,  and  who  upon  his 
joining,  had  unfortunately  neglected  to  have  his  rescript  made 
out.  The  first  bassoonist,  who  was  in  a similar  predicament, 

12* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


180 


succeeded  nevertheless  in  maintaining  his  place,  being  enabled 
to  produce  a letter  from  me  in  which  I had  engaged  him  in 
the  name  and  by  the  authority  of  the  elector,  that  the  letter 
would  guarantee  his  engagement  until  the  rescript  was  pre- 
pared; by  this  circumstance  he  was  saved  to  the  orchestra. 
We  others  were  then  not  called  forward  any  more,  and  all 
remained  upon  the  old  footing. 

In  the  autumn  of  1832,  my  brother  William  wrote  to  me 
from  Brunswick  to  apprize  me  that  in  the  ensuing  November 
would  be  the  “goldene  Hochzeit”  (the  golden  wedding)  of  our 
parents ; and  he  proposed  to  me  that  all  their  children  should 
meet  in  Gandersheim,  to  congratulate  our  parents,  and  present 
them  with  a musical-clock.  That  it  would  be  a source  of  still 
greater  pleasure  to  my  parents,  if  I combined  a musical  enter- 
tainment with  the  festival,  I could  readily  imagine,  and  I 
therefore  urged  William  Wolff, , the  brother  of  my  son-in-law, 
to  write  a poem  for  me,  to  set  to  music,  at  the  performance 
of  which  my  wife  and  I with  the  piano  and  violin  should  re- 
present the  orchestra,  my  three  daughters  take  the  solo  parts, 
and  my  brothers  with  their  wives,  and  my  sons-in-law  sing 
the  chorus.  So  soon  as  I had  received  the  words  in  the  form 
which  I had  suggested,  I immediately  went  to  work , wrote  a 
cheerful  polonaise  (in  the  execution  of  which  I gave  my  wife 
and  self  the  opportunity  of  shewing  our  skill  as  virtuosi  on 
our  respective  instruments) ; this  I followed  up  with  a general 
chorus,  after  which  I brought  in  the  three  soli  of  my  daughters, 
who  at  the  conclusion  sang  a trio ; and  then  lastly  I added  a 
general  chorus  finale.  While  I was  practising  this  festal  cantata 
with  my  wife  and  children,  I sent  to  my  brothers  their  chorus 
parts  also,  for  the  same  purpose,  and  we  all  met  at  Ganders- 
heim a few  days  before  the  fete-day,  which  was  on  the  26th 
November.  As  our  parents  could  not  accommodate  all  of  us 
with  bed-rooms,  I hired  for  myself  and  my  numerous  com- 
pany, the  whole  accommodation  of  an  inn,  and  then  consulted 
with  my  brothers  and  sons-in-law  as  to  the  best  and  most 
effective  manner  of  celebrating  the  day.  Wolff  suggested 


Digitized  by 


Google 


181 


above  all  things  to  hire  the  handsomest  and  largest  room  in 
the  whole  town;  to  decorate  it  with  festoons  of  evergreens 
and  artifical  flowers;  to  display  there  our  presents,  and  give 
our  cantata  before  our  parents  and  the  families  of  our  friends. 
We  were  not  long  in  finding  a room,  for  there  was  but  me  at 
all  suitable  in  the  whole  place,  and  that  moreover  scarcely 
large  enough  to  hold  all  the  invited  guests.  From  the  neigh- 
bouring wood  we  procured  in  abundance  thq  necessary  branches 
and  evergreen  for  the  decorations,  and  were  then  all  employed 
for  several  days  together  in  making  the  festoons  and  in  pre- 
paring garlands  of  paper-flowers,  as  also  with  drawing  and 
painting  transparencies.  When  we  would  get  tired  of  all  this 
work,  I began  the  rehearsals  of  the  cantata,  and  could  not 
but  admire  the  industry  of  the  fair  sex  among  us,  who  had 
practised  their  husbands  so  well  in  the  tenor  and  bass  parts 
of  the  chorus,  although  they  were  almost  utterly  unmusical 
(though  gifted  with  good  voices),  that  their  performances 
were  creditable  enough  to  hear.  In  this  manner  the  time 
passed  very  quickly  till  the  festival,  and  we  then  had  the 
gratification  of  seeing  our  parents  deeply  moved  by  our 
entertainment,  and  our  presents  greatly  admired  by  our  Gan- 
dersheim  friends.  Besides  a musical-clock,  which  in  particular 
was  an  object  of  great  attraction,  the  presents  consisted  of  a 
very  handsome  and  convenient  foot-stool  embroidered  for  my 
father  by  his  Brunswick  daughter-in-law,  and  in  numerous 
specimens  of  work  executed  for  my  mother  by  the  Gassel  ladies. 
The  banquet,  which  was  in  part  brought  from  my  parents’ 
house  and  part  furnished  from  a restaurant,  was  a very  pro- 
fuse one,  at  which  the  wines  and  liquors  brought  by  us  brothers 
met  no  less  with  great  approval,  so  that  the  festival  of  the 
Spohr  family  went  off  very  satisfactorily,  and  was  long  a topic 
of  conversation  in  Gandersheim.  The  general  interest  exhibited 
on  the  occasion  by  the  townspeople  and  those  of  the  neigh- 
bourhood was  very  gratifying,  and  this  among  other  things 
was  exhibited  by  the  contributions  sent  to  my  mother  to  enter- 
tain the  numerous  guests,  for  she  received  a complete  house-* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


182 


ful  of  provisions,  in  the  shape  of  game,  pies,  pastry,  flour, 
eggs,  fruit  &c.  This  gave  the  whole  affair  a complete  pa- 
triarchal character ; and  every  body  did  his  or  her  utmost  to 
evince  their  friendship  for  the  worthy  and  venerable  pair, 
and  their  respect  for  the  man,  who  for  so  many  years  had 
stood  by  them  as  the  faithful  physician  with  help  and  with 
advice,  and  who,  wherever  he  could,  had  always  relieved  the 
necessities  of  the  poor. 

After  my  return  I received  the  command  of  the  Prince 
to  give  a succession  of  concerts  during  the  winter,  in  place 
of  the  theatrical  performances,  which  had  been  suspended 
since  the  spring.  These  concerts  were  to  take  place  every 
Sunday  for  the  benefit  of  the  treasury  of  the  theatre,  and  the 
singers  who  remained  with  us  were  to  be  employed  therein. 
The  public,  however,  greatly  displeased  at  this,  and  that  the 
receipts  from  the  concerts  were  thus  to  be  diverted  from  the 
relief  fund  for  the  widows  of  the  members  of  the  orchestra, 
came  to  the  determination  not  to  subscribe  to  them,  and  thus 
the  receipts  were  almost  null.  Few  of  the  concerts  only,  and 
that  in  which  the  “Weihe  der  Tone”  was  first  given,  were 
well  attended,  but  in  the  others  the  house  looked  very  dreary 
and  empty.  Meanwhile  it  would  seem  that  the  Prince  and 
the  Countess  Schaumburg , had  found  the  winter  tediously 
long  with  a closed  theatre ; for  towards  the  spring  I received 
orders  to  proceed  to  Meiningen  to  engage  for  the  months  of 
March,  April,  and  May,  a company  of  travelling  performers 
who  were  there  at  that  time,  under  the  direction  of  Bethmann 
from  Berlin.  As  I expressed  the  wish  to  take  my  wife  with 
me,  the  Prince  ordered  his  master  of  the  horse,  von  der 
Malsburg,  to  furnish  me  with  a convenient  court  carriage  from 
the  electoral  stables,  and  we  proceeded  to  Meiningen  with  post 
horses.  But  there  were  other  obstacles  to  be  overcome  on  this 
mission,  besides  the  negotiations  with  Bethmann . The  latter, 
for  instance,  had  accepted  an  engagement  for  the  whole  summer 
from  the  court  of  Meiningen,  and  it  was  necessary  to  prevail 
upon  the  duke  to  part  with  the  services  of  the  company  earlier 


Digitized  by  Google 


183 


than  he  had  intended.  To  this,  however,  the  duchess  notwith- 
standing her  differences  with  her  brother,  on  account  of  his 
quarrel  with  the  mother,  rendered  me  her  assistance.  Shortly 
after  my  return,  Bethmann  and  his  company  arrived,  and  for 
the  re-opening  of  the  new  theatre  gave  the  “Freischutz,”  with 
much  applause.  Miss  Meisselbach  pleased  especially  by  her 
performance  of  Agatha.  The  former  director  of  the  theatre, 
Feige,  and  I were  then  appointed  in  superintendance  over 
Mr.  Bethmann , with  instructions  to  place  at  his  disposal, 
the  three  singers  whose  engagements  were  yet  unexpired,  the 
orchestra,  and  the  whole  of  the  company  of  the  scene-painters 
and  workmen  of  the  theatre,  the  extensive  wardrobe,  deco- 
rations, &c.  We  now  worked  out  together  the  order  of  the 
repertory,  Feige  and  Bethmann  for  the  plays  and  I for  the 
operas,  and  were  soon  enabled  to  represent  once  more  all  the 
operas  that  were  previously  performed  on  our  stage.  At  this 
time  I wrote  my  third  double  quartet  [E  minor]  and  another 
concertante  for  two  violins,  which  were  soon  after  published 
by  Simrock  in  Bonn  as  Op.  87  and  88. 

In  June  of  the  same  year  another  grand  musical  festival 
took  place  at  Halberstadt,  which  was  undertaken  by  the 
minister  Augustin  and  his  son,  as  the  sixth  musical  festival 
of  the  Elbe,  to  direct  which  concert-master  Frederick  Schneider 
of  Dessau  and  myself  were  invited.  It  differed  chiefly  from 
the  previous  ones  in  the  erection  of  an  enormous  tent,  or  rather 
of  a large  booth  constructed  of  planks,  upon  the  square  in 
front  of  the  cathedral,  for  the  refreshment  and  social  enter- 
tainment of  the  visitors,  as  well  as  of  the  auditory  and  assistant 
artists,  and  in  which  all  strangers  could  assemble  at  any  hour 
of  the  day.  The  musical  performances  took  place  on  three 
successive  days,  and  began  with  HdndeVs  oratorio  of  “Samson” 
under  Schneider's  direction.  The  next  morning  the  objects 
most  worthy  of  notice  in  Halberstadt  were  visited,  particularly 
the  collections  of  paintings  belonging  to  the  Canon  von  Spiegel 
and  Dr.  Lucanus . It  was  intended  to  have  given  a concert 
at  the  theatre,  but  as  it  was  not  sufficiently  spacious  to  hold 


Digitized  by 


Google 


184 


the  numerous  auditory,  a second  concert  was  given  simul- 
taneously in  the  large  room  of  the  “Golden  Angel,”  and  the 
non-resident  virtuosi  and  singers  were  divided  equally  to  per- 
form at  both  places.  The  tickets  which  were  distributed  ad- 
mitted to  the  rehearsals  also,  so  that  each  person  could  hear 
one  of  the  concerts  at  the  morning  rehearsal,  and  the  other 
at  the  evening  performance;  and  one  single  piece  of  music 
only  was  given  at  both  concerts,  which  was  the  favorite  duet 
from  “Jessonda”  between  Amazili  and  Nadori,  sung  by  Mrs. 
Schmidt  and  Mr.  Manlius , because  neither  party  would  permit 
this  piece  to  be  taken  from  it  by  the  other.  — I conducted 
at  the  concert  given  in  the  room  at  the  “Golden  Angel,”  and 
played  my  new  concertante  in  II  minor  with  concert-master 
Muller  from  Brunswick.  On  the  third  day  the  last  concert 
took  place  in  the  forenoon,  and  under  my  direction,  upon 
which  occasion  I found  upon  my  conductor’s  desk  a present 
of  a red  velvet  coverlet  bearing  an  inscription  embroidered  in 
silver.  At  this  concert  were  performed  Mozart's  symphony  in 
C major,  and  that  of  Beethoven  in  C minor;  my  Lord’s 
prayer  and  a Te  Deum  by  Schneider , and  I had  the  satis- 
faction of  observing  that  at  this  musical  festival  my  three 
compositions  met  with  the  most  general  applause.  At  noon 
a grand  banquet  in  the  large  tent  terminated  the  festival,  at 
which  the  proceeding  were  of  a very  noisy  character. 

We  were  obliged  to  devote  the  remainder  of  the  vacation 
to  a journey  to  Marienbad  in  Bohemia,  where  it  was  hoped 
my  wife,  who  constantly  suffered  from  nervous  debility,  would 
regain  some  strength  from  bathing  and  drinking  the  waters, 
as  well  as  from  the  enjoyment  of  the  fresh  air  from  the 
mountains.  Among  the  visitors  at  the  baths  we  met  Raupach 
of  Berlin,  with  whom  I took  frequent  long  walks,  during  which 
he  related  to  me  many  things  relating  to  his  approaching 
theatrical  labours.  He  was  at  that  time  full  of  a new  drama 
which  he  was  going  to  write  immediately  upon  his  return  home, 
in  which  he  intended  to  lash  the  ill-natured  and  hypocrites, 
and  the  scene  of  which  he  had  laid  in  China.  But  he  probably 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


185 


never  completed  it , or  perhaps  the  ill-natured  ones  of  Berlin 
found  means  to  prevent  its  representation,  for  so  far  as  I know, 
no  piece  of  the  kind  from  the  pen  of  Raupach  was  ever  made 
public.  The  society  of  music  at  Marienbad,  whose  director 
was  a linen  manufacturer  in  the  neighbourhood,  had  much 
pleased  and  surprised  me  with  a very  successful  performance 
of  Cherubini's  overture  to  “Medea,”  with  which,  by  way  of 
serenade,  he  had  greeted  my  arrival,  and  for  which  I the  more 
readily  complied  with  his  wish  to  write  a walz  for  them  d la 
Strauss , to  which  also  my  inclinatien  to  try  every  sort  of 
composition,  had  long  predisposed  me.  At  first,  when  I had 
practised  their  orchestra  in  it,  the  walz  pleased  me  very  well ; 
but  afterwards  I found  it  wanting  in  that  freshness  and 
originality  which  distinguish  most  of  the  walzes  of  Strauss  and 
Lanner.  Nevertheless,  by  the  desire  of  my  publisher  Haslinger 
of  Vienna,  he  brought  it  out  as  Op.  89,  not  only  in  the  original 
form  as  an  instrumental  piece,  but  also  arranged  for  two  and 
four  hands. 

On  my  return  to  Cassel  I next  wrote  six  four-voice  songs 
for  men’s  voices,  which  Schuberth  of  Hamburgh  published  as 
Op.  90,  and  began  my  fourth  quintet  in  A minor , finished  in 
February  of  the  following  year,  and  which  Simrock  of  Bonn 
published  as  Op  91. 

On  the  5th  April  1834,  my  children  and  friends 
took  me  by  surprise  with  an  unsually  grand  fete  in 
celebration  of  my  fiftieth  birthday.  For  that  very  evening  I 
had  announced  an  opera  and  could  not  at  all  understand, 
why  the  intendance  had  suddenly  countermanded  it,  but  this 
had  been  solicited  by  my  folks  unknown  to  me.  My  wife  and 
I now  availed  ourselves  of  the  evening  thus  left  at  our  dis- 
posal to  accept  an  invitation  to  my  son-in-law  Zahn’s  and  we 
were  both  not  a little  surprised  to  find  the  apartments  brilliantly 
lighted  up  with  candelabra,  and  ornamented  with  ingenious  trans- 
parencies and  flowers,  with  my  bust  crowned  with  a wreath, 
and  a brilliant  company  assembled  to  celebrate  the  day  with 
music  (a  cantata  composed  by  Hauptmann)  and  with  speeches. 


Digitized  by  Google 


186 


This  was  unhappily  the  last  festivity  of  the  kind  that  my 
good  wife  lived  to  see.  Our  stay  at  Marienbad  had  not  given 
her  any  permanent  relief,  and  as  her  sufferings  returned  once 
more  with  the  commencement  of  the  winter,  it  became  ne- 
cessary for  her  to  resume  the  attempt  at  cure  in  the  next  vaca- 
tion. This  time  we  met  at  Marienbad  the  brothers  Bohrer, 
and  after  I had  renewed  my  former  acquaintance  with  these 
talented  artists,  we  had  frequent  quartet  parties  together,  in 
which  we  also  prevailed  upon  the  old  linen-weaver,  who  was 
a good  violin  player,  to  join  us.  These  music-parties  enlivened 
my  wife  as  well,  who  benefited  so  much  by  the  waters  that 
we  returned  to  Cassel  with  the  mostly  lively  hope  of  her  ul- 
timate recovery.  But  soon  afterwards  her  condition  again  be- 
came worse,  and  I now  felt  but  little  disposed  to  proceed  with 
my  new  oratorio  which  I had  begun  in  April.  Already  the  year 
before,  on  our  return  journey  through  Leipzic,  Councillor  Roch- 
litz  had  offered  me  an  oratorio  of  the  passion  written  by  him: 
“Des  Heilands  letzte  Stunden”  [the  last  moments  of  the  Saviour] 
to  set  to  music.  Although  it  had  already  been  once  set  to 
music,  under  the  title  “The  end  of  the  just,”  by  Schicht , I 
nevertheless  took  it  with  pleasure,  as  he  assured  me  that 
although  the  previous  composition  had  been  played  and  with 
some  applause,  yet  it  had  not  produced  sufficient  effect;  for 
which  reason  he  had  again  remodelled  the  text  and  had  made 
it  more  suitable  to  the  object  proposed.  As,  however,  I be- 
came informed  that  he  had  proposed  this  new  text  to  Mendels- 
sohn also  for  composition,  before  proceeding  with  the  work 
I first  wrote  of  the  latter,  requesting  him  to  inform  me  whether 
he  had  the  intention  of  composing  the  oratorio?  As  he  replied 
in  the  negative,  and  informed  me  that  he  himself  intended  to 
put  a text  together  from  scripture  (“Paulus”),  I began  my  work 
in  the  spring  of  1834,  which  was  subsequently  interrupted 
by  our  journey  to  the  baths.  As  I nevertheless  remarked  that 
my  wife,  notwithstanding  her  suffering  condition,  interested  her- 
self as  much  in  my  present  work  as  she  had  done  in  my 
previous  ones,  I soon  forgot  every  thing  in  the  inspiration 


Digitized  by 


Google 


187 


with  which  I devoted  myself  to  it.  Although  upon  my  return 
home  from  the  rehearsals  at  the  theatre  Dorette  received  me 
always  with  sad  looks  and  anxious  observations  respecting  her 
health,  she  nevertheless  evinced  again  so  great  an  interest 
in  the  progress  of  my  work,  and  listened  with  such  lively 
attention  to  that  which  when  ready  I rehearsed  at  the  St. 
Cecilia  society,  that  again  I always  resumed  the  continuation 
of  the  work  with  new  courage.  Frequently  nevertheless  she 
would  interrupt  me  with  the  melancholy  question : “What  will 
become  of  our  Theresa,  should  I sink  under  my  illness?”  — 
for  her  anxiety  for  Theresa  had  at  that  time  become  her  .fixed 
idea  — and  when  I made  reply  to  her:  “A  happy  wife,  as 
our  other  children  have  become,”  a radiant  smile  overspread 
her  face,  for  she  had  also  doubtless  remarked,  that  Theresa > 
in  spite  of  her  youth,  had  already  many  aspirants  for  her 
favour,  and  she  herself  received  with  no  displeasure  the  atten- 
tions of  a member  of  our  St.  Cecilia  society.  In  this  manner 
I got  to  the  end  of  the  first  part  of  my  oratorio,  and  my 
wife  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  the  interest  and  enthusiasm 
with  which  it  was  sung  by  the  society;  but  after  that  her 
strength  quickly  declined  and  she  was  obliged  to  take  to  her 
bed.  When  I saw  the  thoughtful  expression  of  face  of  our 
physician  and  family  friend  Dr.  Bauer,  I called  in  also  the 
most  reputed  physician  of  our  town,  Dr.  Hamier,  to  con- 
sult with  him.  But  he  also  shook  his  head  and  could  give 
me  little  hope  to  save  her.  As  my  daughters  Emilia  and  Theresa 
took  upon  them  the  closest  care  of  their  mother,  I was  enabled 
to  comply  with  Dorette’s  wish  to  continue  my  work  during 
the  day  upon  the  completion  of  the  oratorio,  in  which  she 
greatly  interested  herself,  but  was  obliged  to  watch  by  her 
bed  at  night  in  turn  with  Emilia . I had  scarcely  got  to  the 
third  “number”  of  the  second  part,  when  her  malady  assumed 
the  form  of  a nervous  fever,  which  carried  her  off,  and  to  the 
present  day  I think  with  bitter  sadness  of  the  moment  when 
I pressed  the  last  kiss  upon  her  forehead. 

My  son-in-law  Wolff  took  upon  himself  all  the  mournful 


Digitized  by 


Google 


188 


preparations  for  the  funeral,  for  which  in  my  despair  I was 
wholly  incompetent,  and  by  that  means  I was  enabled  to  leave 
the  town  for  a week  with  my  youngest  daughter,  who  was  quite 
beside  herself  for  grief  at  the  death  of  her  mother,  and  who 
moreover  had  passed  the  last  day  by  the  side  of  her  sister 
Ida,  who  was  likewise  ill.  I hired  apartments  at  an  inn 
at  Wilhelmshohe,  and  we  strove  to  regain  the  necessary  self- 
possession  by  long  and  fatiguing  wanderings  in  the  neighbouring 
bare  and  wintry  woods.  When  we  were  at  length  obliged  to 
return  into  town  we  felt  the  solitude  of  our  house  but  the 
more,  intensely.  It  was  therefore  long  before  I could  find 
resolution  sufficient  to  continue  the  score  upon  which  I had 
inscribed  a memorandum  of  the  day  of  my  wife’s  decease,  the 
20th  November;  until  at  length  the  disposition  to  work  re- 
turned, and  I finished  the  oratorio  by  the  end  of  the  winter. 
On  Good  Friday  1835  I gave  an  entire  performance  of  it.  The 
thought  that  my  wife  did  not  live  to  witness  the  completion 
and  performance  of  the  oratorio  diminished  greatly  the  satis- 
faction I experienced  at  this  most  successful  of  my  works,  and 
I did  not  attain  a full  conception  of  its  effect  until  in  its  later 
performances.  An  opportunity  for  a repetition  of  the  oratorio 
presented  itself  the  same  summer  on  Whitsunday , on  which 
day  the  Prince,  contrary  to  custom,  had  granted  us  permission 
to  give  a concert  in  the  church.  The  theatrical  vacation 
coming  soon  after  this,  I was  obliged  to  seize  the  opportunity, 
and  comply  with  the  advice  of  my  physician  to  proceed  to 
a sea-bathing  place,  and  I selected  for  the  purpose  Zandford, 
a newly-established  and  as  yet  not  much  frequented  watering- 
place  about  3 miles*  from  Haarlem.  Besides  Theresa , my 
sister-in-law,  Mincken  Scheidler,  who  for  some  years  since  the 
death  of  my  mother-in-law  had  resided  with  us,  and  who 
during  our  former  journeys  was  accustomed  to  visit  her  brother 
professor  Charles  Scheidler  at  Jena,  accompanied  me  on  this 
journey,  and  both  were  exceedingly  pleased  with  it.  We  de- 


* English. 


Digitized  by  Google 


189 


scended  the  Rhine  to  Dusseldorf,  were  I had  projected  staying 
for  a few  days,  as  Mendelssohn , who  had  accepted  the  situation 
of  director  of  music  in  the  new  theatre  built  by  Immermann , 
now  lived  there.  The  wife  of  Councillor  von  Sybel,  at  whose 
house  I lived  during  the  musical  festival,  had  heard  of  our 
intention  to  make  a short  stay  in  Dusseldorf,  and  urged  me 
to  take  up  my  lodging  in  her  house,  which  I did  the  more 
readily  as  I had  heard  that  Immermann  was  a visitor  in 
her  house  and  generally  spent  his  evenings  there. 

I took  my  violin  with  me,  and  my  last  works  also,  among 
which  a second  recently  finished  concertino,  E major , Op.  92, 
published  by  BreitJcopf  and  Hdrtel  of  Leipzic.  We  first  went 
to  Frankfort,  stopped  there  one  day  only  at  Speyer's  house, 
and  then  continued  our  journey  from  Bieberich  by  the  steam- 
boat. At  Dusseldorf  we  were  received  at  the  house  of  Mrs. 
von  Sybel  in  a very  friendly  manner,  and  already  on  the  first 
evening  had  the  pleasure  Jff  making  Immermann’s  acquaintance, 
who  to  the  special  delight  of  my  sister-in-law  read  to  her  his 
charming  “Tulifantchen.”  Of  Mendelssohn,  who  was  not  there, 
I heard,  that  he  also  was  one  of  the  friends  of  the  house,  but 
never  appeared  there  on  those  evenings  when  Immermann  came, 
because  with  him,  who  devoted  his  whole  attention  to  the 
spectacle  only,  he  had  disagreed  about  the  opera. 

The  next  morning,  when  I paid  a visit  to  Mendelssohn  and 
met  his  sister  there,  he  played  to  me  the  first  “numbers”  of 
his  oratorio  “Paulus,”  with  which  I was  not  altogether  quite 
pleased  because  it  was  too  much  in  the  style  of  Handel . He 
and  his  sister,  on  the  other  hand,  appeared  greatly  pleased 
with  my  concertino  in  E major,  in  .which  there  occurred  a 
characteristic  staccato  in  one  long  stroke,  by  way  of  novelty, 
such  as  he  had  never  before  heard  by  any  other  violinist.  Accom- 
panying me  then  in  a very  clever  manner  from  the  score,  he 
could  notfhear  this  staccato  often  enough,  and  repeatedly  re- 
quested me  to  begin  with  it  again,  saying  the  while  to  his 
sister:  “See,  this  is  the  famous  Sporish  staccato , which  no 
violinist  can  play  like  him!  ” Thence  I went  to  see  Immermann, 


Digitized  by  Google 


190 


who  proposed  to  me  to  pay  a visit  to  Grabbe,  who  at  that 
time,  at  Immermann's  invitation*  was  staying  at  Dusseldorf, 
and  I thus  on  the  same  day  made  the  acquaintance  of  that 
strange  being.  When,  upon  my  entering  his  lodging,  the  little 
fellow  set  eyes  upon  a giant  like  me,  he  drew  back  timidly 
into  a corner  of  the  room,  and  the  first  words  he  spoke  to  me 
were:  “It  would  be  an  easy  matter  for  you  to  throw  me  out 
of  that  window.”  I replied:  “Yes,  I certainly  could,  but  I am 
not  come  here  with  that  intention.”  This  comical  scene  over, 
Immermann  then  first  introduced  me  to  the  foolish  yet  inter- 
esting creature. 

In  the  house  of  our  hospitable  hostess  we  passed  some 
pleasant  days  alternately  in  Mendelssohn's  and  Immermann’s 
society,  and  then  resumed  our  journey  on  board  the  Dutch 
steamer  to  Cleves,  where  I was  desirous  of  visiting  my  old  friend 
Thomae  for  a few  days.  We  found  him  a widower  also;  for 
he,  too,  had  recently  lost  his  wife.  The  nut-tree  in  his  garden, 
of  which  we  had  set  the  nut  in  1818  with  such  solemnity 
during  our  stay  with  his  family,  was  in  full  leaf  and  flourishing 
amazingly.  Thomae' s children,  who  were  now  all  grown  up, 
and  of  whom  the  eldest  son  had  now  taken  his  father’s  place 
as  notary,  were  all  in  good  health,  but  he  himself  seemed  low- 
spirited  and  ill.  Our  visit  nevertheless  afforded  him  great 
pleasure,  and  upon  our  departure  he  presented  Theresa , as 
god-daughter  of  his  deceased  wife,  with  a gold  watch,  and 
entreated  us  to  visit  him  again  on  our  return.  In  this  manner, 
after  quitting  the  steamboat  at  Rotterdam,  we  arrived  safely 
at  Zandford,  by  #way  of  the  Hague,  Amsterdam  and  Haarlem. 
When  we  had  hired  apartments  at  the  bath-house  andTooked 
out  of  our  windows  upon  the  sea  for  the  first  time,  my  sister- 
in  law  uttered  the  ominous  words:  “Here  I could  wish  to 
remain  for  ever!”  After  I had  arranged  with  the  physician 
of  the  bathing- etablishment,  who  came  from  HaarleA  daily  to 
visit  the  bathers,  respecting  the  terms  for  his  attendance 
during  my  bathing  cure,  and  had  immediately  begun  to  bathe, 
I soon  went  into  the  sea  with  real  pleasure,  and  took  great 


Digitized  by  Google 


191 


delight  in  swimming  about  in  it.  Our  fellow  inmates  of  the 
bath-house  and  guests  at  the  dinner-table  were  some  puritan 
families  from  Elberfeld  and  Barmen,  whose  religious  notions 
I had  soon  sufficient  opportunity  to  learn  by  their  conver- 
sation at  table,  but  which  by  no  means  inspired  me  with  a 
wish  to  make  their  nearer  acquaintance.  After  dinner  we  used 
to  take  our  walks  in  the  wood,  which,  beginning  immediately 
behind  the  downs,  extended  almost  as  far  as  Haarlem,  and  in 
this  manner  we  passed  the  fine  weather  with  which  we  were 
favoured  in  the  summer  of  1835,  very  happily  in  our  retire- 
ment. This  was,  however,  soon  to  be  interrupted  by  an  un- 
expected artistic  enjoyment ; for  the  lovers  of  music  of  Amster- 
dam, who  had  been  informed  of  my  presence  in  Zandford, 
invited  me  and  my  fellow  travellers  to  a concert  which  they 
had  arranged  in  my  honour.  We  proceeded  therefore  by  om- 
nibus to  Haarlem,  and  thence  by  the  canal  boat  to  Amsterdam, 
where  we  alighted  at  the  house  of  Mr.  Tenkate , a former  ac- 
quaintance of  mine.  In  his  company  we  went  to  the  concert 
given  in  the  concert  room  of  Felix  Mentis , at  which  several 
of  my  compositions  were  given;  first  one  of  my  symphonies, 
then  the  duet  from  “Jessonda,”  sung  by  Mr.  de  Vruecht  of 
Haarlem  and  the  prima  donna  of  the  German  theatre;  after 
which  Mr.  Tours  of  Rotterdam  played  a violin-concerto  of 
mine,  and  Mr.  Vruecht  terminated  the  concert  with  some  songs. 
After  we  had  supped  at  the  house  of  our  host,  and  were  on 
the  point  of  going  to  bed,  a serenade  was  given  me,  which 
we  listened  to  from  the  balcony  of  the  house. 

My  sister-in-law,  who  during  the  concert  had  complained 
of  a head-ache,  now  probably  caught  cold,  for  despite  my 
warning  she  would  stand  out  also  in  the  chill  night  air  on 
the  balcony  to  hear  the  serenade;  and  upon  our  return  to 
Zandford,  upon  consulting  the  bath-physician  next  morning,  he 
found  that  a cutaneous  eruption  had  made  its  appearance 
in  the  night,  which,  however,  he  did  not  consider  dangerous. 
The  vacation  meanwhile  was  drawing  to  a close,  and  the 
physician  was  of  opinion  that  after  the  invalid  had  kept  her 


* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


192 


bed  for  a few  days,  we  should  soon  be  enabled  to  set  out 
upon  our  return  journey.  But  on  the  evening  of  the  same 
day,  while  I was  sitting  at  the  bed-side  of  my  sister-in-law, 
as  the  sun  was  going  down,  and  speaking  with  her  of  our 
return  home,  she  requested  in  a tone  of  anxious  and  nervous 
agitation  to  be  allowed  to  get  up,  and  while  exerting  my 
utmost  strength  to  prevent  her  from  rising,  she  fell  back 
suddenly  upon  the  pillows,  and  losing  all  consciousness,  breathed 
her  last.  Both  Theresa  and  I,  seized  with  alarm,  called  for  as- 
sistance, upon  which  a young  man,  a medical  student  whose 
apartment  was  contiguous  to  ours,  came  in  with  all  his  in- 
struments and  immediately  proceeded  to  open  a vein.  But  it 
was  without  success.  No  blood  would  flow,  the  surgeon  pro- 
nounced her  dead  and  was  now  using  every  effort  to  bring 
Theresa  to  her  senses,  who  had  fainted  away  with  fright. 
Thus  was  sadly  realised  the  ominous  desire  of  my  sister-in-law : 
“Here  I could  wish  to  remain  for  ever!”  What  we  felt  as 
we  followed  her  a few  days  afterwards  to  her  last  resting-place, 
and  how  sadly  this  scene  resuscitated  the  mournful  recollection 
of  that  we  had  witnessed  the  year  before  in  Cassel,  I need 
not  attempt  to  describe. 

We  now  proceeded  with  all  possible  speed  on  our  return 
journey,  and  at  the  landing-place  of  the  steam-boat  near 
Cleves  met  our  friend  Thomae , who,  when  he  learned  our  new 
loss,  persisted  no  further  in  his  desire  that  we  should  again 
stay  a few  days  at  his  house.  As  my  leave  of  absence  was 
moreover  expired,  we  continued  our  journey  to  Cassel  without 
further  delay.  But  I there  felt  the  lonesomeness  of  our  home 
yet  more  keenly,  deprived  of  the  one  whom  we  had  left  behind, 
and  I therefore  began  to  experience  the  want  of  a partner 
through  life  who  would  also  take  an  interest  in  my  musical 
laboura.  The  meetings  of  our  society  of  St.  Cecilia  were  near 
at  hand,  where  at  our  weekly  rehearsals  the  opportunity  might 
present  itself  to  me  to  make  unperceived  such  observations  as 
would  perhaps  enable  me  to  select  a lady  in  whom  I might 
hope  to  find  a solace  for  the  remainder  of  my  life,  and  one 


Digitized  by 


Google 


193 


fitted  to  restore  to  me  my  lost  happiness.  I there  bethought 
me  especially  of  the  sister  of  my  deceased  friend  Karl  Pfeiffer , 
whose  serious  tone  of  mind  and  warm  interest  for  high-class 
music  I had  observed  during  her  constant  punctual  attendance 
for  several  years  at  the  concerts  of  the  society,  and  who, 
moreover,  as  I knew  through  her  brother,  had  a particular 
predilection  for  my  music.  Besides  this,  in  my  almost  daily 
walks  on  the  Cologne  Alley,  which  took  me  past  the  garden 
of  Chief  Councillor  Pfeiffer  of  the  court  of  appeal,  I had  for 
a long  time  past  the  opportunity  of  witnessing  at  a distance 
the  happy  and  unpretentious  manner  of  life  of  the  family.  As 
at  that  time  (September  1835)  the  electoral  troops  were  con- 
centrated for  the  autumn  manoeuvres,  and  had  formed  a 
camp  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  castle  of  Wilhelmsthal, 
whither  the  Casselers  now  resorted  as  their  chief  promenade, 
I bethought  me  of  making  a party  thither,  and  through  my 
daughter  Theresa  requested  the  parents  Pfeiffer  to  permit  both 
their  daughters  to  accompany  us. 

During  this  little  excursion,  I had  the  opportunity  in  the 
course  of  conversation  to  become  acquainted  with  the  high  and 
varied  intellectual  culture  of  the  two  sisters,  and  so  I became 
fully  confirmed  in  my  resolve  to  sue  for  the  hand  of  the  eldest 
sister,  Marianne,  whose  knowledge  of  music  and  skill  in  piano- 
forte play  I had  already  observed,  when  she  sometimes  gave 
her  assistance  in  accompaniment  at  the  concerts  of  the  St. 
Cecilia  society.  As  I had  not  the  courage  to  propose  for  her 
by  word  of  mouth,  there  being  more  than  twenty  years  dif- 
ference in  our  ages,  I put  the  question  to  her  in  writing,  and 
added,  in  excuse  for  my  courtship,  the  assurance  that  I was 
yet  perfectly  free  from  the  usual  infirmities  of  age.  I now 
awaited  the  answer  with  the  most  anxious  expectancy.  To 
my  great  joy  it  proved  one  of  assent,  upon  which  I hastened 
to  her  parents,  and  in  due  form  asked  her  in  marriage.  They 
wished  every  happiness  to  our  union,  and  we  now  daily  learned 
}o  know  each  other  better.  As  at  my  age  there  was  not  much 
time  be  lost,  I urged  that  the  wedding  should  take  place  im- 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  U.  13 


Digitized  by 


Google 


194 


mediately  after  the  new  year,  which  after  some  opposition 
from  the  relations  and  the  bride,  was  consented  to.  Our 
wedding  was  fixed  for  the  3nd  of  January  1836,  and  I asked 
my  parents  to  become  witness  to  my  new  happiness.  Yet, 
on  the  appointed  day  our  wedding  nearly  failed  to  take  place, 
for  the  required  permission  of  the  co-regent  Prince  had  not 
yet  been  received,  notwithstanding  all  the  exertions  of  my 
friend  Mr.  von  der  Malsbnrg,  whose  office  it  was,  as  marshal 
of  the  court,  to  have  it  made  out. 

My  father-in-law,  who  in  former  years  had  given  private 
readings  in  public  law  to  the  Prince,  and  then  did  not 
stand  very  high  in  his  favour,  had  totally  lost  it  since,  as  a 
member  of  the  first  parliament  (from  1831  to  1832),  he  had 
effected  by  his  able  and  convincing  report  to  the  assembled 
states  a great  diminution  of  the  disproportionate  amount  of 
the  military  expenditure.  The  Prince  bore  this  doubtless 
in  mind,  and  therefore  delayed  granting  his  permission  for  the 
marriage  of  his  daughter.  Neither  did  we  receive  this  until 
my  bride  had  signed  a bond,  which  was  expressly  required 
of  her,  whereby  she  waived  all  claim  to  a future  pen- 

sion. As  I,  in  case  of  my  death,  was  enabled  to  provide  for 
my  wife  by  other  means,  we  consented  to  this  requisition ; and 
in  this  manner  our  wedding  did  yet  take  place  on  the  day 
which  had  been  appointed.  The  nearest  relatives  of  the  family 
of  my  parents-in-law,  to  the  number  of  three  and  thirty, 

together  with  my  own  parents,  my  daughters  and  their  hus- 
bands, were  assembled  on  the  occasion.  The  marriage  cere- 
mony, at  the  request  of  my  bride,  was  performed  by  her 

favorite  preacher  Asb'and , whom  she  knew  personally  and 
highly  esteemed. 

I now  lived  again  in  my  former  and  accustomed  domestic 
manner  and  felt  unspeakably  happy  with  my  wife ! As  we  fre- 
quently played  together,  I became  more  and  more  acquainted 
with  her  high  sentiment  for  the  noble  in  the  science  of  music, 
and  from  her  great  ability  for  reading  at  sight,  was  enabled 
in  a short  time  to  play  with  her  not  only  all  that  I had 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


195 


previously  written  for  the  violin  with  pianoforte  accompaniment, 
but  many  new  things  in  that  style  of  art,  and  which  I had 
not  previously  known,  were  suggested  to  me  by  her.  This  in- 
spired me  with  a great  desire  to  try  something  for  once  in 
duets  especially  written  for  pianoforte  and  violin.  The  first 
I wrote  .for  ourselves  was  the  duet  in  G minor  (Op.  95 
published  by  Breitkopf  of  Leipzic).  Thus  engaged  I frequently 
observed  with  great  pleasure  the  lively  interest  she  took  in 
my  works,  in  the  same  manner  as  my  departed  wife  had  af- 
forded me  so  much  happiness  and  stimulated  my  labours. 
Wheft  I had  written  out  a passage,  upon  playing  it  with  her 
I could  immediately  hear  its  full  effect,  which  interested  and 
made  us  both  equally  happy.  Besides  the  above  I composed 
at  this  period  six  songs  for  a counter  tenor  voice,  published 
by  Simrock  of  Bonn  as  Op.  94. 

When  the  summer  and  the  season  of  vacation  drew  nigh, 
we  resolved  upon  a journey  to  visit  our  respective  relatives. 
But  as  there  was  no  railway  at  that  time,  we  were  obliged 
as  formerly  to  travel  with  post  horses,  and  proceeded  by  way 
of  Eisenach  to  Gotha,  where  we  visited  a step-sister  of  my  late 
wife,  who  had  married  a tradesman  of  the  Name  of  Hildt  of 
that  place.  We  found  them  in  their  flower-garden,  spent  a 
pleasant  evening  with  them,  and  left  the  next  day  for  Erfurt. 
As  the  musical  amateurs  of  that  place  had  heard  of  our  coming 
beforehand,  we  were  immediately  received  at  the  hotel  of 
“The  Roman  Emperor”  by  a deputation,  who  invited  us  in  a 
most  flattering  address  to  the  festive  entertainments  which  had 
been  prepared  for  us.  At  the  banquet  which  was  given  on 
the  first  day,  I was  welcomed  in  a poem  composed  for  the 
occasion,  after  which  my  health  was  drunk  with  an  enthu- 
siasm which  afforded  great  gratification  to  my  wife  and  daughter. 
In  the  evening  we  drove  to  the  “Steiger,”  the  favorite  place 
of  resort  of  the  citizens  of  Erfurt;  but  as  it  shortly  after- 
wards began  to  rain,  we  could  not  much  enjoy  the  beautifully 
laid  out  gardens,  and  were  compelled  to  take  refuge  in  the 
saloon  itself.  Fortunately  they  had  taken  care  to  provide  a 

13* 


Digitized  by  foozle 


196 


good  pianoforte  and  I could  therefore  let  the  company  hear 
my  new  duet  for  violin  and  piano,  and  also  my  concertino  in 
E sharp , both  of  which  I played  with  my  wife.  After  that, 
Theresa  sang  some  of  my  newest  songs,  and  by  some  of  the 
ladies  and  gentlemen  of  Erfurt  my  bass  duet  from  “Faust1’  and 
several  songs  were  sung.  This  improvisated  musical  party  ap- 
peared to  please  the  company  greatly,  and  thus,  despite  the 
rain , we  returned  to  town  very  satisfied  with  our  day’s 
pleasure.  Early  on  the  following  morning  .we  were  taken  by 
surprise  with  a serenade  performed  in  our  honour  by  the 
military-band  drawn  up  on  the  square  in  front  of  the  4iotel. 
It  began  with  the  well-known  sounds  of  one  of  my  symphonies, 
which  was  followed  by  several  other  pieces,  and  lastly  by  the 
first  finale  from  “Zemira  and  Azor.”  We  then  went  to  see 
objects  of  note  in  the  town,  particularly  the  fine  cathedral, 
upon  entering  which  we  were  greeted  by  the  pealing  notes  of 
the  celebrated  organ,  and  afterwards,  the  introduction  to  the 
“Last  moments  of  the  Saviour,”  as  also  several  other  melodies, 
chiefly  from  my  earlier  oratorios,  were  executed  in  a very  im- 
pressive manner.  After  we  had  partaken  of  a magnificent  repast 
at  the  house  of  Major  van  Bommel , whose  wife  was  a cousin 
of  Mrs.  Spohr’s , we  drove  to  the  theatre,  where  preparations 
had  been  made  for  a grand  concert,  at  which,  with  a bril- 
liantly lighted  house,  the  “Weihe  der  Tone”  and  my  “Lord’s 
Prayer”  were  performed  in  a very  satisfactory  manner. 

The  next  morning  we  continued  our  journey  to  Leipzic, 
and  there  again  attended  several  interesting  musical  parties, 
which  my  old  friends  Bochlitz  and  Weiss,  as  also  the  distin- 
guished pianiste  Mrs.  Vogt , gave  at  their  houses  in  our  honour, 
and  where  I played  some  of  my  more  recent  quartets,  which 
were  as  yet  unknown  to  the  Leipzickers,  particularly  the 
Quatuor  brillant  in  A major , which  I had  composed  in  the 
previous  autumn  (Op.  93,  published  by  Haslinger  of  Vienna). 
In  Dresden,  at  the  hotel  of  the  “Stadt  Gotha,”  we  met  the 
family  Kleinwachter  of  Prague,  father,  son  and  daughter  — as 
also  my  friend  Adolph  Hesse,  the  celebrated  organist  of  Bres- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


197 


lau,  whom  I had  personally  known  since  1828,  when  he  first 
visited  me  in  Cassel,  and  who  entertained  a great  friendship 
for  me.  With  him  we  proceeded  on  a preproposed  tour 
through  Saxon  Switzerland,  and  performed  the  first  distance, 
to  the  entrance  of  the  Uttewalder  Ravine,  in  the  carriage,  which, 
when  we  became  tired  of  climbing  the  steep  heights  which 
offered  the  chief  points  of  view,  always  took  us  again  and 
carried  us  conveniently  from  one  magnificent  rocky  aspect 
to  the  other.  We  had  nevertheless  some  long  and  fatiguing 
pedestrian  trips,  for  instance  that  of  the  ascent  of  the 
great  Winterberg,  when  the  heat  was  very  oppressive.  From 
Hirniskretschen . the  limit  of  our  journey , we  descended 
the  Elbe  to  Schandau,  partook  of  a pleasant  dinner  there, 
during  which  we  rallied  each  other  mutually  upon  our  fatigue, 
which  we  endeavoured  as  much  as  possible  to  conceal  from 
the  visitors  at  the  baths,  who  sat  with  us  at  table,  and  which 
gave  rise  to  many  comical  incidents. 

In  Dresden  we  went  to  a very  interesting  quartet 
party  at  the  house  of  the  court  musician  Frans , a former 
pupil  of  mine,  for  which  occasion  it  was  festively  decorated 
with  wreaths  and  flowers.  We  there  met  the  three  directors 
of  orchestra  Beissiger , Morlychi  and  Bastrelli , and  I played 
one  of  my  double  quartets  and  my  newest  concertino.  As 
we  purposed  leaving  Dresden  the  next  morning  it  was  now 
necessary  to  take  leave  of  our  amiable  fellow  travellers  Klein - 
wdchtcr  and  Hesse , in  whose  society  we  had  passed  so  many 
pleasant  hours,  and  who  during  the  time  of  our  being  together, 
had  really  heaped  upon  us  every  demonstration  of  affection 
and  attention.  They  parted  from  us  with  tears  in  their  eyes, 
and  we  continued  our  journey  through  Leipzic  and  Halle  to 
Brunswick,  where  we  were  desirous  of  visiting  my  brothers 
William  and  Augustus , and  at  the  same  time  of  assisting  at 
the  musical  festival  which  was  then  about  to  be  held  there. 
This  took  place  in  the  iEgydian  church,  and  opened  with 
HandeVs  “Messiah.”  Although  that  noble  work  was  long  since 
well  known  to  us  from  previous  performances  of  it,  we  were 


Digitized  by 


Google 


198 


nevertheless  again  truly  charmed  by  the  grandeur  of  the 
choruses,  the  powerful  cast,  and  Mozart's  instrumentation. 
On  the  two  following  days  mixed  concerts  of  vocal  and  in- 
strumental music  were  given ; but  the  pieces  performed  being 
for  the  most  part  operatic  music,  they  appeared  to  us  not 
altogether  suited  for  the  church.  At  all  the  grand  dinners 
which  took  place  daily  at  noon  under  the  large  tent  that  had 
been  erected  on  the  wall  promenade,  the  hilarity  was  generally 
somewhat  tumultuous;  and  one  scene  that  occurred  on  the 
last  day  was  of  a very  comical  nature. 

Mantius , the  tenor  singer  of  Berlin,  who  had  already  sung 
some  songs  with  great  applause,  was  at  last  requested  to  siug 
the  favorite  one  of  “Fair  Annie.”*  This  song  has  an  ap- 
parent termination,  which  is  followed  by  a yet  more  brilliant 
finale.  It  so  happened  that  the  auditory  always  broke  out 
into  a loud  applause  before  Mantius  had  got  to  the  end. 
After  this  had  occurred  to  his  great  annoyance  at  some  verses, 
he  at  the  following  verse  mounted  upon  a bench,  and  at  last 
even  got  upon  the  table,  in  order  at  length  to  obtain  a com- 
plete hearing  for  the  brilliant  point  of  the  song,  but  again 
his  efforts  were  fruitless ! The  apparent  termination  was 
always  too  irresistible,  and  although  Mantius  previous  to  the 
last  verse  again  implored  his  hearers  both  earnestly  and  pi- 
teously to  restrain  their  applause  until  he  had  really  come  to 
the  end,  one  of  them  nevertheless  allowed  himself  to  be  carried 
away  by  his  feelings  and  to  shout  bravo  at  the  wrong  time, 
and  that  was  quite  sufficient  for  the  rest  to  join  in.  The 
expression  of  despair  with  which,  though  overwhelmed  with 
applause,  the  singer  now  jumped  down  from  the  table,  was 
indescribably  ludicrous. 

Upon  our  leaving  Brunswick  we  were  pressingly  invited 
by  Councillor  Liider,  who  had  also  been  present  at  the  musical 
festival,  to  spend  a few  days  with  him  at  his  country  seat 

* “Schon  Iiannchen.” 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


199 


at  Catlenburg,  upon  our  way  back ; and  this  formed  a worthy 
termination  to  this  interesting  journey. 

On  our  return  to  Cassel  I found  a letter  from  my  former 
pupil  Gercke , director  of  music  at  Paderbom,  in  which  we 
were  invited  to  the  millenium  jubilee  of  St.  Liborius , which  was 
to  take  place  there  on  the  21st  July.  The  celebration  of  this 
festival  was  to  commence  on  the  first  day  with  church  so- 
lemnities, and  on  the  second  with  the  production  of  my  oratorio: 
aDes  Heilands  letzte  Stunden”  (The  last  moments  of  the  Saviour). 
As  my  holidays  were  not  quite  expired,  we  quickly  made  up 
our  minds,  and  in  a few  days  again  took  our  seats  in  the 
travelling  carriage,  in  which  this  time  my  sister-in-law  Caroline 
Pfeiffer  filled  the  fourth  place.  We  slept  at  Lichtenau  and 
set  out  from  there  so  early  the  next  morning,  that  we  ar- 
rived at  Paderborn  before  eight  o’clock,  but  we  found  never- 
theless the  town  so  full,  that  we  could  not  be  accommodated 
at  either  of  the  two  hotels  there.  The  host  of  the  second 
hotel  seemed  however  to  regret  his  inability  to  accommodate 
us,  and  hired  for  us  a couple  of  rooms  in  a private  house 
opposite.  But  we  could  there  procure  two  beds  only,  so  that 
he  was  obliged  to  arrange  a sleeping  place  for  me  and  my 
wife  for  the  night  in  the  hotel,  and  that  indeed  in  a room 
occupied  by  a hair-dresser  during  the  day  in  the  pursuance 
of  his  calling,  and  for  the  sale  of  his  wares.  We  had  scarcely 
entered  our  unseemly  apartment  than  we  received  a visit  from 
the  dilettanti  of  the  town,  and  from  the  artists  who  had  come 
to  take  part  in  the  musical  performances.  We  were  then 
conducted  to  the  house  of  one  of  their  friends,  where  the  best 
places  were  given  to  us  at  the  windows,  to  see  with  more  con- 
venience the  brilliant  procession  which  accompanied  the  relics 
of  St.  Liborius  in  their  golden  shrine,  to  the  cathedral. 
When  the  immense  crowd  of  the  population  had  somewhat 
dispersed  we  also  proceeded  to  the  cathedral,  where  we 
admired  the  richly  decorated  and  beautiful  structure,  and  heard 
Carl  Maria  von  Weber’s  mass  in  D major , the  too  worldly 
style  of  which  however  did  not  altogether  please  us.  On  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


200 


following  evening  my  oratorio  was  performed  in  the  church 
of  the  Jesuits,  brilliantly  lighted  up,  whither  we  were  ac- 
companied and  a passage  made  for  us  through  the  thronged 
aisle  up  to  the  front  places  assigned  to  us  on  cushioned 
seats  close  to  those  of  the  bishop  of  Paderborn,  chief  president 
Vincke  and  the  commandant  of  the  town.  I remarked  with 
pleasure  that  here  also  a great  enthusiasm  was  felt  for  my 
oratorio;  Gercke  directed  exceedingly  well,  the  choruses  had 
been  well  studied,  and  among  the  solo-singers,  who  were  for 
the  most  part  dilettanti,  the  well-known  concert  singer  Mrs. 
Johanna  Schmidt  particularly  distinguished  herself  in  the  part 
of  Mary.  Scarcely  had  we  retired  to  rest  after  this  busy  day, 
than  we  heard  a torch-light  serenade  under  our  windows,  con- 
sisting of  instrumental  music  and  four-part  songs.  When  on 
the  repeated  loud  calls  on  my  name  I went  to  the  window 
with  the  intention  of  returning  thanks , I found  in  front  of  it 
so  high  a pile  of  pasteboard  boxes  belonging  to  my  co-occupant 
of  the  room  as  to  impede  my  efforts  to  open  it,  and  I was 
therefore  compelled  to  convey  my  deferred  oral  thanks  in  a 
written  shape  the  next  morning  previous  to  our  leaving. 

In  this  manner  we  returned  to  Cassel  from  this  excursion 
also  very  gratified,  after  which,  inspired  with  improved 
health  and  in  very  happy  domestic  circumstances,  I began  a 
new  period  of  industrious  composition.  Already  on  the  return 
journey  from  Dresden  I had  constantly  thought  of  a new  com- 
position, and  sketched  out  the  programme  of  it.  This  was 
another  sonate  for  me  and  my  wife,  which  was  afterwards 
published  as  a duet  for  piano  and  violin  “Nachklange  einer 
Reise  nach  Dresden  und  in  die  sachsische  Schweiz”  (Reminis- 
cences of  a journey  to  Dresden  and  through  Saxon  Switzer- 
land) Op.  96,  by  Simrock  of  Bonn  and  dedicated  to  our  amiable 
fellow  travellers  of  Prague  and  Breslau.  In  the  first  theme 
I endeavoured  to  describe  the  love  of  travel,  and  in  the  se- 
cond the  journey  itself,  by  introducing  the  winding  of  the  pos- 
tillions' horns,  customary  in  Saxony  and  the  neighbouring  part 
of  Prussia,  as  the  dominant  in  the  scherzo,  played  by  the  violin 


Digitized  by  Google 


201 


upon  the  G string  in  a horn-like  manner  as  chief  theme,  worked 
out  with  striking  modulations  on  the  pianoforte,  and  then  I 
depicted  in  the  trio  a fanciful  dreaming-like  sentiment,  such  as 
one  so  willingly  yet  unconsciously  gives  onesself  up  to  in  the 
carriage!  The  subsequent  adagio  represents  a scene  in  the 
catholic  royal-chapel  at  Dresden,  which  begins  with  an  organ- 
prelude  on  the  pianoforte  alone;  after  which  the  violin  plays 
the  intonations  of  the  priest  before  the  altar,  which  are  fol- 
lowed by  the  responses  of  the  chorister-boys  in  the  same  tones 
and  modulations  as  they  are  given  in  catholic  churches  and 
that  of  Dresden.  This  is  followed  by  a air  for  mstrato , in  which 
the  violinist  has  to  imitate  the  tone  and  that  style  of  singing. 
The  last  theme  of  all  describes  in  a rondo  the  journey  through 
Saxon  Switzerland,  in  which  it  endeavours  so  recal  the  re- 
collection of  the  grand  beauties  of  nature  and  to  represent 
the  merry  strains  of  the  Bohemian  music,  which  one  hears 
resound  from  almost  every  rocky  glen;  to  effect  all  which  in 
so  compressed  a limit  could  of  course  be  but  imperfectly 
realised. 

In  the  course  of  the  year  1836  I wrote  also  a number 
of  songs,  six  of  which,  in  one  book,  were  published  by  Breit- 
Tcopf  & Hartel  as  Op.  101,  and  among  the  rest  “Sangeslust” 
(The  love  of  song)  given  in  Breitlcopf  & UdrteVs  musical 
album,  with  four-handed  accompaniment ; furthermore  a Psalm 
for  chorus  and  soli  with  orchestral  accompaniment,  and 
a fantasia  in  the  shape  of  an  overture  to  Raupach’s  mythical 
tragedy  “Die  Tochter  der  Luft”  (“The  Daughter  of  the  Air”) 
which  was  shortly  afterwards  performed  at  one  of  our  sub- 
scription concerts.  But  as  in  this  shape  it  did  not  altogether 
please  me,  I afterwards  worked  it  up  as  the  first  theme  of 
my  fifth  symphony,  which  I composed  for  the  “ conceiis  spiri- 
tuels ” at  Vienna  and  which  was  shortly  afterwards  published 
by  Haslinger  as  Op.  102.*  In  the  beginning  of  the  following 

* Its  first  performance  in  Vienna  produced  there  a great  sensation, 
as  several  gratifying  reports,  accompanied  by  a costly  silver  cup  with 
suitable  inscription,  testify.  The  Vienna  Musical  Journal  said  in  a very 


Digitized  by 


Google 


202 


year  (1837)  I wrote  my  third  duet  for  pianoforte  and  violin 
in  E major,  which  was  afterwards  published  by  Paul  of  Dresden 
as  Op.  112. 

About  this  same  time  I made  earnest  preparations  to 
carry  out  an  idea  which  had  long  occupied  my  thought,  namely 
to  give  a musical  festival,  for  which  Cassel  seemed  to  me 
in  many  respects  exceedingly  well  adapted.  My  plan  of  this 
was  as  follows,  on  Whitsunday  afternoon  to  give  Mendelssohn's 
oratorio  of  “Paulus”  (St.  Paul)  in  the  church  of  St.  Martin; 
on  Whitmonday  evening,  with  the  church  lighted  up,  to  perform 
my  symphony  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone”  and  my  oratorio  of 
“Die  letzten  Dinge;”  an  Whittuesday  in  the  forenoon,  at  the 
theatre,  a concert  of  foreign  and  native  singers  and  virtuosi, 
and  on  the  same  evening,  as  was  usual  on  the  second  festival 
day,  a new  opera. 

The  invitations  abroad,  the  assembling  of  the  musicians, 
and  the  rehearsal  of  the  oratorios  by  the  choral-society 
had  already  begun,  when  to  my  application  to  the  Prince 


enthusiastic  review,  among  other  things:  It  is  again  a work,  that  speaks 
its  own  master’s  praise  in  elegant  language : a pure  whole,  a thing  apart 
of  itself,  all  of  one  casting.  The  introduction,  andante  C sharp , breathes 
a cheerful  repose  which  gradually  assumes  an  impassioned  character  and 
prepares  the  hearer  for  the  transition  to  the  allegro,  C minor , which,  replete 
with  treasures  of  harmony  bears  in  itself  the  germ  of  an  imposing  ef- 
fect  The  second  theme,  Larghetto,  A major,  is  a conglomerate  of 

deep  feeling,  warm  fantasy,  and  of  song  replete  with  sentiment  etc. ; in 

this  again  each  note  speaks  to  the  heart  with  irresistible  force 

The  scherzo,  C sharp , opens  with  a bold  freshness  of  appeal  to  life  and 
cheerfulness,  the  sharp  rhythms,  the  unceasing  and  restess  competition  of 
the  wind  and  stringed  instruments,  the  impetuous  bursts  of  tonic  power 
as  opposed  to  the  soft  clear  flowing  cantilene  of  the  alternative,  — and, 
all  these  effected  in  a manner  so  original  and  striking  as  to  defy  ex- 
pression in  words For  the  presto  finale,  the  poet  of  sound 

appears  to  have  husbanded  as  much  as  possible  the  sum  total  of  his  crea- 
tive powers Not  one  of  the  numberless  beauties  were  lost 

upon  the  hearers,  each  theme  in  succession  received  the  merited  tribute 
to  his  mastery ; and  indeed  the  richly  fantastic  scherzo  electreified  all  so 
unanimously,  that  a da  capo  was  imperatively  called  for.”  .... 


Digitized  by  foozle 


203 


for  permission  I received  the  following  authoritative  dicision 
from  his  private  secretary:  “The  days  of  performance  must  be 
changed,  as  the  evening  of  Whitsunday  could  not  be  granted 
without  disturbing  those  who  had  prepared  themselves  to 
receive  the  holy  sacrament  on  that  evening;  neither  could 
any  concert  be  allowed  on  Whitmonday  (on  account  of  the 
church  service  and  the  opera);  nor  could  any  scaffolding  be 
erected  in  the  large  church  for  the  chorus,  as  it  would  be 
unbecoming  in  the  locality  of  the  burial  vault  of  the  electoral 
family.  His  highness  must  await  other  proposals,  before  he 
could  graciously  condescend  to  grant  his  permission.” 

To  this  I replied  that  a musical  festival  in  Cassel  could 
alone  prove  successful,  and  the  risk  of  the  very  considerable 
expense  could  alone  be  safely  incurred  if  it  were  permitted, 
as  at  other  places,  and  as  is  the  custom  at  the  musical  festivals 
on  the  lower  Rhine  , to  take  place  in  the  Whitsuntide  holi- 
days, when  a great  number  of  strangers  would  flock  to  the 
town  and  the  lovers  of  music  of  the  neighbouring  places  would 
not  be  prevented  by  business  from  attending.  That  if  Whit- 
sunday evening  could  not  be  granted,  no  other  two  succeeding 
evenings  of  that  time  could  be  found  for  performances  in  the 
church.  As,  furthermore,  no  other  appropriate  place  was  to  be 
found  in  Cassel,  than  the  large  church,  and  that  the  erection 
of  seats  therein  could  not  be  allowed,  I found  myself  com- 
pelled to  abandon  totally  the  projected  musical  festival. 

Unpleasant  to  all  parties  as  was  this  complete  failure  of 
the  plan,  I was  compelled  to  abide  by  it,  despite  the  some- 
what considerable  expense  I had  already  incurred,  and  of  which 
I could  reimburse  myself  but  a very  small  part  only  by  the 
re-sale  of  the  procured  song-parts  to  the  choral  society. 
As  meanwhile,  however,  we  had  industriously  practised 
Mendelssohn's  oratorio,  and  become  more  and  more  delighted 
with  it,  I proposed  to  give  it  on  Whitsunday  at  the  concert 
which  had  been  permitted  for  the  benefit  of  the  relief  fund; 
but  this  was  refused  also  by  the  Prince , so  that  we 
were  obliged  to  content  ourselves  with  gratifying  the  lovers 


Digitized  by  foozle 


204 


of  music  with  two  private  performances  of  the  oratorio  upon 
the  pianoforte  at  the  society  of  St.  Cecilia. 

In  the  summer  of  1837  I received  an  invitation  to  go  to 
Prague  to  direct  the  performance  of  my  opera  uDer  Berg-Geist” 
(The  Spirit  of  the  Mountain)  and  for  that  purpose  I thought 
of  proceeding  thither  at  the  commencement  of  the  holidays. 
But  as  the  permission  had  not  been  received  at  the  treasury 
of  the  theatre  on  the  evening  before.  I addressed  myself 
to  the  Prince  between  the  acts  of  the  opera,  and  en- 
quired of  him,  Whether  he  had  any  orders  for  me  to  execute 
upon  the  journey.  In  the  somewhat  indistinct  answer  I received 
from  him  I understood,  it  is  true,  something  about  my  per- 
mission not  having  been  made  out;  but  as  I had  no  time  to 
lose,  I found  myself  under  the  necessity  of  setting  out  without 
it  at  4 o’clock  the  next  morning.  Seeing  Feige , the  director  of 
the  theatre,  walking  in  the  neighbourhood  of  my  house  at  that 
early  hour,  I thought  lie  might  have  been  sent  to  ascertain 
whether  1 really  had  the  boldness  to  set  out  on  my  journey 
without  the  written  permission.  On  the  first  day’s  journey 
indeed,  l was  not  without  some  uneasiness  lest  a mounted 
messenger  might  be  sent  after  us  to  order  our  return.  I there- 
fore hastened  as  much  as  possible  at  every  post- station  the 
putting-to  of  fresh  horses,  and  we  thus  crossed  the  frontier 
without  molestation.  After  a journey  of  six  days  we  at  length 
reached  Prague,  where  Marianne  and  Theresa  were  greatly 
struck  by  the  beauty  of  the  city  and  had  moreover  the  grati- 
fication to  learn  from  the  theatre  bills  placarded  at  the  corners 
of  the  streets,  that  my  opera  Jessonda  was  to  be  given  that 
evening,  in  which  a foreign  singer  was  to  make  her  debut. 
That  the  opera  was  a great  favorite  here  was  evident  from 
the  fact  that  immediately  after  the  performance  of  the  over- 
ture, the  public  encored  it.  The  “Blumenduet”  (flower  duet) 
and  the  duet  “Schones  Madchen”  (lovely  maiden)  were  also 
encored.  But  I was  very  much  annoyed  at  several  omissions, 
for  which  however  the  director  of  the  Prague  orchestra  was 
not  to  blame,  being  omissions  which  were  customary  in  Vienna, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


205 


from  whence  the  score  had  been  supplied.  The  principal 
singers  were  very  good,  so . that  a favourable  result  was  also 
to  be  anticipated  for  the  uBerg-Geist.” 

On  the  following  morning  I was  taken  by  suprise  by  a 
visit  from  a zealous  lover  of  music,  Dr.  Hutzelmann , who  had 
been  informed  that  I was  fond  of  swimming,  and  had  for 
that  reason  come  to  take  me  to  the  military  school  of  natation 
on  the  Moldau;  the  officer  attached  to  that  establishment, 
who  accompanied  me,  soon  remarked  that  I was  a practised 
swimmer,  and  proposed  a swimming  excursion  outside  the  school, 
in  which  he  ordered  me  to  be  accompanied  by  two  soldiers  in 
a boat.  They  took  my  clothes  with  them,  and  after  I had 
swum  for  about  half  an  hour  with  the  stream,  they  assisted 
me  into  the  boat,  in  which  I dressed  myself  while  the  soldiers 
rowed  us  back  to  the  town.  While  I was  swimming  near  the 
boat,  our  conversation  turned  more  and  more  upon  my  com- 
positions, with  which  the  musical  instructor  in  swimming  was 
almost  as  well  acquainted  as  myself.  He  proposed  to  me  a 
similar  enjoyment  every  day  in  the  Moldau,  and  next  morning 
found  him  already  waiting  for  me  with  his  boat  near  the 
swimming-school.  Meanwhile  the  rehearsals  of  the  “Berg-Geist” 
went  on  exceedingly  well.  The  director  of  the  orchestra  had 
very  carefully  managed  the  private  rehearsals,  and  studied  every- 
thing so  well,  that  in  two  performances  which  I myself  con- 
ducted the  opera  was  eminently  successful.  Upon  my  entering 
the  orchestra  I was  not  only  received  by  the  public  in  the 
most  enthusiastic  manner,  but  loudly  called  for  each  time  at 
the  conclusion  of  the  opera.  The  singers  who  supported  the 
chief  characters  were  madame  Podhorski  as  Alma,  Messrs.  Pock 
and  Emminger , as  Berg-Geist  and  Oskar,  who  sang  and  per- 
formed exceedingly  'well,  and  the  opera  maintained  its  place 
in  the  repertory  of  Prague  theatre  for  a long  time.  We  re- 
mained a few  days  longer  in  Prague,  and  I played  at  several 
private  parties  not  only  quartets  but  also  my  sonatas  and  solo- 
music  with  my  wife’s  accompaniment,  who  likewise  played  some 
quite  newT  composition  of  Kittl  and  Kleinwiichter  for  four  hands, 


Digitized  by  foozle 


in  which  she  displayed  great  ability  and  quickness  in  reading 
at  sight.  The  Klcimcachter  family  made  several  excursions  with 
us  into  the  beautiful  environs  of  Prague,  by  which  means  we 
became  intimately  acquainted  with  all  the  attractions  of  that 
fine  city.  At  length  however  we  were  obliged  to  tear  our- 
selves away  from  these  enjoyments  and  resumed  our  journey. 
Now  also  came  the  most  fatiguing  part  of  our  tour,  that  to 
Vienna,  in  which  we  suffered  exceedingly  from  the  heat  and 
dust,  as  also  from  the  dirty  and  wretched  accommodation  of 
the  inns  where  we  passed  the  night.  On  the  fourth  day  we 
arrived  half  dead  at  Vienna  and  put  up  at  the  uErzherzog 
Carl”  hotel.  After  I had  called  upon  my  former  friends,  we 
passed  some  very  pleasant  days  there,  for  which  we  had  to 
thank  my  Cassel  friends  von  Steuber , the  ambassador  from  the 
Elector  of  Hesse,  the  Baron  von  Lannoy,  and  particularly  my 
Viennese  publisher,  Haslinger.  The  latter  took  us  every  evening 
to  some  new  gardens,  where  Strauss  and  Lanner  gave  their 
concerts,  and  where  we  supped  exceedingly  well  a la  carte  at 
the  little  tables  spread  for  the  entertainment  of  the  guests. 
Sometimes,  also,  we  went  to  the  theatre,  to  see  the  real  Vien- 
nese popular  farces,  but  my  female  companions  were  not  suf- 
ficiently acquainted  with  the  Viennese  dialect,  to  relish  them 
thoroughly. 

After  the  lapse  of  a fortnight,  in  which  we  participated 
in  all  the  amusements  of  Vienna,  we  took  leave  of  our  kind 
friends  and  resumed  our  journey  towards  the  beautifully 
situated  Salzburg,  #hich  is  one  of  the  finest  possible,  parti- 
cularly the  first  half,  the  way  across  the  lake  to  the  Ischl 
baths.  In  Salzburg,  which  as  the  birth-place  of  Mozart  was 
to  me  sacred  ground,  we  first  of  all  visited  his  widow,  the 
present  wife  of  Privy  Councillor  von  Ntssen,  who  was  very 
pleased  at  our  calling  upon  her,  and  in  whose  house  we  made 
the  acquaintance  of  her  two  sons.  In  the  excursions  we  made 
into  the  neighbourhood  in  one  of  the  customary  light,  one- 
horse  vehicles  of  the  country,  we  were  most  pleased  at  the 
celebrated  Gollinger  waterfall,  and  with  a sliding  trip  through 


Digitized  by 


Google 


207 


the  rock-salt-works  at  Hallein,  which  was  something  quite  new 
for  my  female  fellow  travellers.  From  Salzburg  we  now  went 
on  to  Munich,  where  I learned  to  my  great  surprise,  that 
the  Prince  of  Hesse  had  just  arrived  there.  As  it  was 
now  necessary  for  me  to  apologise  to  him  for  my  departure 
from  Cassel,  I addressed  myself  for  that  purpose  to  the  Marshal 
of  the  court,  von  der  Malsburg , and  at  the  same  time  informed 
him  that  I had  been  requested  by  the  intendant  of  the 
Munich  theatre  to  conduct  there  the  performance  of  my 
opera  “Jessonda,”  but  for  which  I would  first  request  the 
Prince’s  permission.  On  the  following  morning  the  Prince 
sent  word  to  me  that  it  would  be  very  agreeable  to  him  that 
I should  direct  the  opera,  and  in  that  case  he  would  prolong 
his  stay  to  hear  it.  Adorned  with  a hat  lent  to  me  by  Mr. 
von  der  Malsburg  and  a little  bit  cut  off  from  the  ribbon  of 
his  order,  I repaired  the  next  day  to  the  appointed  au- 
dience, and  was  received  by  the  Prince  with  the  following 
words:  “Why,  you  disappeared  from  Cassel  all  at  once.”  To 
which  I replied:  “I  thought  I had  taken  my  leave  in  the 
form  prescribed,”  and  as  he  said  nothing  further  on  the 
subject,  the  matter  was  so  far  settled  for  this  time.  But 
the  contemplated  representation  of  “Jessonda”  did  not  take 
place  during  my  presence  in  Munich,  as  the  king  expected 
some  days  after  a visit  from  the  Prince,  and  had  deferred  the 
opera  till  then,  and  in  the  meantime  my  leave  of  absence  had 
expired.  We  therefore  left  Munich  before.  On  our  way  back 
we  paid  a visit  to  my  uncle  Professor  Adolphus  Hencke  in 
Erlangen,  where  we  made  the  acquaintance  of  the  present 
Councillor  Rudolph  Wagner  of  Gottingen,  and  returned  to 
Cassel  before  the  Prince  arrived. 

Shortly  afterwards,  I received  a letter  from  Hermstedt , 
wherein,  by  request  of  the  Princess  von  Sondershausen,  he 
commissioned  me  to  write  some  soprano  songs  for  her  with 
pianoforte  and  clarinet  accompaniment.  As  this  task  was  much 
to  my  liking,  I composed  in  the  course  of  a few  weeks  six 
songs  of  this  kind  (Op.  103,  published  by  Breitkopf  & Hartel 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


208 


of  Leipzic)  which  by  the  express  desire  of  the  Princess  I de- 
dicated to  her,  and  for  which  1 received  from  her  the  present 
of  a very  costly  ring. 

I began  the  year  1838  with  the  composition  of  the 
i;Vaterunser”  [Lord’s  Prayer]  of  Klopstock  (Op.  104,  Brett - 
hop/  & Hartel , Leipzic)  which  I wrote  with  a double  chorus  for 
men’s  voices ; at  first  only  for  pianoforte  accompaniment,  and 
afterwards  instrumentated  for  orchestra,  as  it  was  intended  to 
be  performed  at  the  singing  festival  for  the  benefit  of  the 
Mozart  institution  at  Frankfort,  where  though  I was  obliged 
to  decline  directing  in  person,  it  was  first  performed  on  the 
29th  July,  and  having  been  well  studied,  produced,  according  to 
the  reports  from  there,  a very  solemn  and  imposing  effect. 

In  the  succeeding  months  I again  composed  several  songs 
for  soprani  or  tenori,  which  appeared  as  Op.  105,  at  Hell- 
ninth's  in  Halle. 

Meanwhile  the  first  public  performance  of  “Paulus”  took 
place  at  last  on  Good  Friday  in  the  garrison-church,  and  we  were 
looking  forward  with  pleasure  to  its  repetition  on  Whitsunday, 
when  our  good  Theresa  fell  suddenly  ill  of  a malignant  nervous 
fever,  which  in  a short  time  brought  her  blooming  life  to  a 
close.  On  the  Tuesday  before  Ascension  Day  we  had,  chiefly 
at  Theresa's  own  wish , made  a pleasant  excursion  to  Wil- 
helmshohe;  there  she  first  complained  of  indisposition,  and 
on  our  return  home  she  was  immediately  obliged  to  take  to 
her  bed.  As  Dr.  Ludwig  Pfeiffer , our  then  attendant  physician 
and  second  brother  of  my  wife,  was  just  then  absent  from 
Cassel,  we  called  in  once  more  her  uncle,  Dr.  namier , 
who  although  no  alarming  symptoms  as  yet  shewed  them- 
selves, visited  the  patient  several  times  daily,  until  after 
the  lapse  of  a week,  to  our  great  terror  he  pronounced  her 
complaint  to  be  nervous  fever.  This  now  constantly  increased 
in  vehemence,  and  as  in  her  fits  of  delirium  she  spoke  con- 
tinually of  a journey  we  had  contemplated  to  Carlsbad,  the 
idea  of  which  had  greatly  pleased  her , I promised  her  that 
she  should  go  tluther  as  soon  as  she  recovered.  This  greatly 


Digitized  by 


Google 


i 


209 


soothed  her,  but  nevertheless  did  not  diminish  the  fever,  and  on 
Whitsunday  morning  the  blooming  maiden  of  nineteen  succumbed 
to  the  fearful  malady.  The  loss  of  the  talented  amiable  girl 
plunged  us  in  such  misery  that  we  looked  forward  with  earnest 
longing  to  the  approaching  theatrical  vacation,  in  order  to  leave 
immediately  the  mournful  surroundings  of  our  home,  and  seek 
far  away  from  Cassel  some  respite  from  the  constant  remem- 
brance of  our  anguish. 

After  we  had  been  delayed  another  eight  days  in  Cassel 
by  the  reiterated  retarding  of  my  leave  of  absence,  we  were 
enabled  to  set  out  for  Carlsbad  on  the  23nd  June,  accompanied 
by  my  mother-in-law,  to  whom  the  use  of  the  waters  had  also 
been  recommended,  which  was  exceedingly  welcome  to  me,  par- 
ticularly on  account  of  my  wife,  who  had  taken  very  much  to 
heart  the  loss  of  our  Theresa . No  sooner  were  we  arrived  in 
Carlsbad  than  we  met  with  Hesse  of  Breslau,  and  in  our  walks  to 
the  springs  soon  made  the  acquaintance  of  other  warm  lovers  of 
music,  with  whom  on  dull  days,  when  the  weather  would  per- 
mit of  no  excursions  together  to  the  charming  environs,  we 
made  up  small  music  parties  at  our  lodgings.  As  a young 
lady  from  Breslau,  Miss  Ottilia  Schubert , sang  most  charmingly, 
my  wife  practised  her  in  my  new  songs  with  clarinet  accom- 
paniment, at  which  a first-rate  clarinet  player,  Mr.  Seemann  from 
Hannover,  took  the  clarinet  part;  in  this  manner  our  hearers 
became  acquainted  with  a new  style  of  songs  which  they  had  not 
known  before,  and  which  interested  them  exceedingly.  Somewhat 
later,  De  Beriot  also  arrived  with  his  sister-in-law  Pauline 
Garcia,  in  Carlsbad,  and  the  concert  which  he  gave  at  the 
theatre  afforded  us  very  great  enjoyment.  He  played  with  great 
purity,  brilliancy  and  Execution,  but  his  compositions  did  not 
altogether  please  us,  and  Miss  Garcia , afterwards  the  so-ce- 
lebrated Mrs.  ViardoU  Garcia,  sang  with  a voice  of  great 
compass,  though  not  exactly  a very  fine  one,  and  with  great 
artistic  skill.  She  especially  delighted  her  hearers  with  the 
execution  of  her  Spanish  romances  and  ballads,  in  which  she 
aocompanied  herself  very  well  on  the  pianoforte. 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  II.  14 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


210 


1 


[Here,  unfortunately,  Spohr’ 8 own  narrative  of  his  life  closes  for  ever ! 
— To  the  subsequent  encouragements  of  his  relatives  to  resume  it  he  used 
to  reply:  “I  take  no  pleasure  in  writing  now;  and  there  are  sufficient 
materials  for  the  continuance  of  the  Biography  at  any  time,  in  the  diaries 
and  papers  of  my  wife.”  — Hereupon,  this  latter,  mindful  of  this  express 
indication  of  her  husband’s,  resolved  to  place  notes,  journals,  and  letters  of 
every  kind,  and  even  memoranda  jotted  down  for  her  sole  private  use  and 
edification,  at  the  disposal  of  those  members  of  the  family  who  undertook  by 
means  of  extracts,  without  any  pretence  to  literary  skill  — in  simple,  un- 
adorned truthfulness,  after  Spohr’s  own  example  — to  carry  out  the  history 
of  his  life  to  the  end.] 


After  a beneficial  use  of  the  waters,  Spohr  left  Carlsbad, 
and  on  his  way  back  stopped  at  Leipzic,  where  some  mu- 
sical parties  quickly  got  up  by  the  families  of  his  acquaint- 
ance enabled  him  to  pass  some  very  agreeable  days,  and  at 
which  he  played  his  favorite  quartet  in  A minor , with  his 
newest  concertino,  to  the  great  delight  of  his  hearers.  Upon 
this  occasion,  it  was  a source  of  great  pleasure  to  him  to 
make  the  long  desired  acquaintance  of  Robert  Schumann , who 
though  in  other  respects  exceedingly  quiet  and  reserved,  yet 
evinced  his  admiration  of  Spohr  with  great  warmth,  and  gra- 
tified him  by  the  performance  of  several  of  his  interesting 
fantasias. 

Mendelssohn  was  at  the  time  unfortunately  absent,  and  in 
his  next  letter  to  Spohr  expressed  his  great  regret  thereat; 
and  requested  him  at  the  same  time  to  send  him  his  last 
symphony  (No.  5,  C minor),  as  it  was  intended  to  perform  it 
at  the  opening  of  the  approaching  season  in  the  first  concert 
of  the  Leipzic  Gewandhaus.  While  expressing  his  thanks  for 
it  beforehand,  he  says  at  the  same  time,  in  reference  to  a song 
of  Spohr' s with  which  he  had  just  previously  become  acquainted : 
uAs  I am  now  on  the  subject  of  thanks,  I must  thank  you 
many  times  and  with  all  my  heart  for  the  beautiful  song 
in  F sharp  with  clarinet  accompaniment,  the  “Zwiegesang,” 
which  pleases  me  exceedingly  and  has  so  completely  charmed 


Digitized  by  Google 


211 


me  with  its  prettyness,  that  I both  sing  and  play  it  every  day. 
It  is  not  on  account  of  any  one  particular  feature  that  I ad- 
mire it,  but  for  its  perfectly  natural  sweetness  as  a whole,  and 
which  from  beginning  to  end  flows  so  lightly  and  gratefully  to 
the  feelings.  How  often  have  I sung  it  with  my  sisters,  and 
each  time  with  renewed  pleasure!  And  for  that  I must  now 
also  thank  you ” 

The  first  work  with  which  Spohr  occupied  himself  after 
his  return  to  Cassel,  was  a fourth  quartet  for  stringed  instru- 
ments (G  minor),  which  was  published  by  Paul  of  Dresden 
as  Op.  106,  both  in  its  original  form  and  as  arranged  by 
Spohr  himself  for  the  pianoforte  for  four  hands.  — About  the 
same  time  he  received  the  very  unusual  order  to  make  arrange- 
ments for  a concert  at  court,  which  after  frequent  and  long 
deliberations,  at  length  took  place  on  the  19th.  September  at 
the  palace  of  Wilhelmshohe.  The  instrumental  pieces  were 
performed  by  the  members  of  the  electoral  chapel,  but  the 
vocal  subjects  were  at  Spohr’s  recommendation  confided  to 
Fimhaber,  a distinguished  dilettant  professor  from  Hildesheim, 
who  himself  had  a court  appointment,  and  had  been  for  some 
years  tutor  to  Baron  Scholley , stepson  to  the  Prince.  With 
a very  fine  high  tenor  voice,  he  combined  a good  musical 
education,  and  a lively  sentiment  for  art,  and  Spohr7 s com- 
positions, with  the  manifold  beauties  of  which  he  had  made 
himself  more  and  more  acquainted  during  his  residence  in 
Cassel , soon  inspired  him  with  real  enthusiasm.  As  Spohr 
also  took  as  much  pleasure  in  his  society  as  in  his  charming 
style  of  singing,  he  was  a constant  assistant  at  all  music 
parties,  and  his  presence  in  Cassel  suggested  to  Spohr  many 
of  his  most  pleasing  and  favorite  songs,  of  which  were : the  book 
of  songs  from  Op.  101  to  105 ; the  duet  for  soprano  and  tenor 
Op.  107,  (both  published  by  Simrock)  and  Franz  Dingelstedt’s 
“Mitternacht”  (midnight),  which  song  was  published  by  itself 
by  Paul  of  Dresden.  Respecting  the  last,  the  author  of  the 
words,  who  had  then  an  appointment  at  the  gymnasium  of  Fulda, 
wrote  to  Spohr  at  a subsequent  period,  expressing  the  greatest 

14* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


212 


m 


satisfaction:  “Yesterday  evening  I heard  your  song  ‘Mitter- 
nacht*  sung,  and  still  deeply  impressed  by  it,  I hasten  to 
thank  you,  and  to  express  both  my  delight  and  my  pride  there- 
in. I will  not  say  that  you  have  entered  into  the  spirit  of 
my  words  — for  what  are  they  after  all?  No,  it  is  you  who 
have  caught  the  long,  low,  solemn  whisperings  of  midnight. 
For  the  first  time  I regret  that  I am  not  sufficiently  ac- 
quainted with  music  to  understand  and  express  the  enthusiasm 
of  the  initiated  in  matters  of  change  of  tempi,  tone  &c.;  in 
your  art  I am  a naturalist  merely,  but  I enjoy  this  produc- 
tion of  it  yet  more  deeply  and  intimately  than  they  all ; for  I 
feel  as  a poet  in  the  matter!  — Not  a word  more  now  of 
common-place  praise  and  song  of  thanksgiving!  You  have 
afforded  me  an  hour  of  delight,  and  stirred  within  me  emotions 
such  as  alas!  I can  feel  here  but  seldom:  a reward  for  my 
aspirations,  an  incentive  to  future  efforts!  You,  I am  sure, 
understand  me!”  ...  , 

In  October  1838  Spohr , following  the  example  set  by  many 
of  the  larger  towns  of  Germany,  succeeded  at  length  in  carrying 
out  his  reiterated  proposition  to  give  a concert  at  the  theatre 
in  aid  of  the  funds  for  the  erection  of  the  testimonial  to  the 
memory  of  Mozart.  The  first  part  of  the  concert  comprised 
among  other  things  Mozart's  symphony  in  D minor ; and  in 
the  second,  tableaux  vivants,  with  appropriate  music,  from 
Mozart's  operas,  in  which  at  the  conclusion,  the  last  chorus  of 
the  requiem  resounded,  and  the  bust  of  Mozart , placed  in  the 
foreground  of  the  stage,  was  crowned  by  genii  with  wreaths 
of  laurel.  — A similar  festival  took  place  the  following  spring 
in  aid  of  the  fund  for  the  memorial  to  Beethoven , but  with 
this  difference , that  the  programme  contained  besides  the 
choicest  selection  from  the  works  of  that  honoured  maestro,  a 
composition  of  Spolir' s also,  his  most  recent  concertino : “Sonst 
und  Jetzt,”  which  he  had  performed  for  the  first  time  shortly 
before  at  one  of  the  regular  winter  concerts,  and  upon  this 
occasion  reproduced  at  the  express  desire  of  the  Prince.  The 
success  upon  both  occasions  was  extremely  great. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


213 


At  the  commencement  of  the  same  year,  several  other 
remarkable  concerts  took  place,  and  among  others,  Ole 
Bull  performed  twice  in  the  theatre,  to  overflowing  houses, 
notwithstanding  the  increased  prices  of  admission,  and  filled 
the  public  with  astonishment  and  admiration  Qf  his  play. 
Spohr  himself  took  the  warmest  interest  in  the  wonderful  play 
of  his  colleague  in  art,  and  gave  a musical  party  at  his  own 
house  in  his  honour,  in  which  he  first  played  one  of  his  own 
quartets,  but  in  the  following  he  resigned  the  first  place  to 
Ole  Bully  and  even  took  the  second  violin.  His  opinion 
respecting  Ole  Bull's  play  may  here  be  given  in  his  own 
words,  when  writing  to  his  friend  Speyer  upon*  the  sub- 
ject: uOle  Bull  has  lately  given  two  concerts  at  the  theatre 
and  greatly  charmed  the  public.  His  many-toned  strokes  and 
the  accurate  certainty  of  the  left  hand  are  remarkable,  but 
like  Paganini,  he  sacrifies  too  much  to  the  tricks  of  the  art. 
His  tone  on  the  weak  strings  is  bad,  and  he  can  only  use  the 
A and  D string  on  the  lower  part  and  pianissimo . This  gives 
to  his  play  a great  monotony  when  he  cannot  bring  in  his 
tricks  of  art.  We  found  this  in  two  of  Mozart's  quartets, 
which  he  played  at  my  house.  On  the  other  hand,  he  plays 
with  much  feeling,  but  not  with  a cultivated  taste.”  With 
every  acknowledgment  made  by  Spohr  of  the  extraordinary 
performances  of  Ole  Bull , certain  features  of  charlatanism , so 
foreign  to  his  own  simple  nature,  did  not  escape  him,  and  he 
frequently  related  at  a subsequent  period  with  a good-natured 
smile  to  his  own  friends,  and  to  others,  how  Ole  Bull  at  a 
passage  which  offered  him  an  opportunity  of  shining  in  one 
of  his  incomparable  pp , kept  his  bow  hovering  over  the  strings 
for  several  seconds,  so  that  the  public  who  listened  in  breathless 
silence  for  the  last  sound  of  his  constantly  decreasing  tones, 
might  believe  they  still  continued  dying  away  in  ppp. 

About  this  time  also,  the  representation  of  a small  opera: 
uDer  Matrose,”  in  the  composition  of  which  Spohr  had  assisted, 
was  frequently  repeated.  The  text,  adopted  from  the  French, 
was  written  by  the  admired  comedian  Bimbaum , and  at  his 


Digitized  by 


Google 


214 


wish  set  to  music  by  four  composers  of  this  place,  Spohr , 
Hauptmann , Baldewein  (director  of  music),  and  the  song-writer 
and  teacher  of  music  Greneebach , collectively.  Besides  the 
overture,  Spohr  had  undertaken  the  song  of  a home-returning 
mariner,  together  with  the  finale  and  all  these  “numbers,” 
and  the  whole  operetta  met  with  lively  approbation  from  the 
public.  Unfortunately  Spohr9  at  a later  period,  was  no  longer 
in  possession  of  these,  as  they  remained  in  the  hands  of  Mr. 
Bimbaum , for  whose  benefit  the  first  representation  of  the 
opera  was  intended.  The  highly  characteristic  mariner’s  song 
only  appeared  some  time  afterwards,  arranged  by  himself 
with  four-handed  accompaniment  for  the  pianoforte,  and  was 
published  by  Paul  of  Dresden. 

In  April  1839  Spohr  received  a pressing  invitation  from 
England  to  direct  the  performance  of  his  oratorio  uDes  Hei- 
land’s  letzte  Stunden”  at  the  grand  musical  festival  which  was 
to  take  place  in  September  at  Norwich.  After  he  had  succeeded 
in  obtaining  the  requisite  leave  of  absence  from  the  Prince, 
the  customary  tour  during  the  summer  holidays  was  this 
time  limited  to  a shorter  excursion,  in  which  he  made  visits 
to  his  relatives  and  friends.  He  next  proceeded  to  Holz- 
minden  — where  Spohr's  younger  brothers  Augustus  and 
Charles  resided  with  their  families,  the  former,  as  a fiscal 
assessor,  and  the  latter  a law  official  of  the  duchy  of 
Brunswick.  Thence  he  went  on  to  Gandersheim  to  visit  his 
venerable  parents,  and  lastly  to  Catlenburg,  to  Councillor 
Liider.  As  a matter  of  course  on  this  journey  he  was  not 
without  his  violin,  and  wherever  Spohr  came  he  found  grateful 
hearers,  who  considered  themselves  superlatively  happy  in 
listening  to  his  play.  More  than  any  of  the  other  pieces  that 
he  executed,  his  newest,  charming  composition,  a Spanish 
rondo  for  pianoforte  and  violin,  afforded  them  delight;  this 
soon  became  one  of  the  most  favorite  pieces  of  music  in  Cassel 
also,  and  remained  so  up  to  a very  recent  period.  At  a later 
period,  when  it  was  published  by  Mechetti  in  Vienna  as  Op.  Ill, 
there  appeared  simultaneously  a pianoforte  arrangement  of  it 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


215 


for  four  hands  by  Czerny , which  was  certainly  most  welcome 
to  all  who  had  not  the  advantage  of  hearing  the  original 
composition  executed  by  a distinguished  violinist. 

Returned  to  Cassel,  Spohr  finished  his  “Historical  Symphony 
in  the  style  and  taste  of  four  different  periods”  which  he  had  begun 
before  he  set  out  on  his  journey.  (Theme  the  first : The  period 
oi  Bach-Handel,  1720.  Adagio:  Haydn- Mozart  1780.  Scherzo: 
Beethoven  period  1810.  Finale:  The  most  modern  period  1840) 
a work,  which  afforded  him  not  only  during  its  creation,  but 
also  upon  the  occasions  of  its  closely  following  performances 
in  Cassel,  the  greatest  satisfaction.  Abroad  also,  and  first  in 
London,  where  he  sold  it  to  the  Philharmonic  Society  for  the 
term  of  one  year,  and  subsequently  in  Germany,  where  he  was 
. permitted  to  make  it  known  after  the  lapse  of  that  period,  it 
met  with  the  most  lively  reception.  Many  voices  were,  however, 
raised  in  blame,  and  of  these  that  of  Schumann , in  his  musical 
journal,  was  the  severest  in  tone.  On  the  other  hand  Baron 
Lannoy , in  Vienna,  reported  that  the  work  had  been  received 
with  great  favour:  Mendelssohn  sent  in  a most  flattering  account 
of  its  reception  at  Leipzic;  and  many  letters  full  of  praise  ar- 
rived from  England. 

In  the  beginning  of  September  Spohr  set  out  upon  the 
journey  to  England,  accompanied  by  his  wife  and  his  friend 
Mrs.  von  Malsburg , with  whom  he  had  been  many  years  ac- 
quainted.* „ 

After  an  exceedingly  rough  passage,  which  delayed  his  ar- 
rival in  London  by  six  hours,  Spohr  was  very  agreeably  surprised 
in  the  midst  of  the  confusion  incidental  to  such  circumstances, 
on  being  addressed  by  a gentleman,  a stranger  to  him,  ex- 
hibiting an  order  from  the  custom-house  authorities,  to  deliver 
Spohr1  s luggage  without  examination,  and  who  then  took 

* As  Spohr  himself  always  considered  this  English  musical  festival 
(the  Norwich  festival)  and  the  flattering  reception  given  to  him  and  his 
works  in  that  country,  as  the  most  brilliant  period  in  his  active  life,  its 
description  may  reasonably  find  a place  here  in  a somewhat  more  de- 
tailed form. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


216 


him  and  his  female  fellow-travellers  speedily  and  safely  to  land 
in  a boat,  where  a coach  was  in  waiting  to  take  him  to  the 
hospitable  house  of  professor  Edward  Taylor.  In  the  amiable 
family-circle  of  that  gentleman  and  surrounded  by  the  genuine 
English  usages  and  comfortswhich  had  so  many  charms  for  the 
guests,  they  soon  found  themselves  at  home,  and  a few  days 
sufficed  to  lay  the  foundation  of  a life-long  friendship.  As  their 
farther  journey  permitted  but  a short  stay  in  London,  it  was 
necessary  to  make  the  best  use  of  the  time  to  see  the  objects 
most  worthy  of  notice  in  the  metropolis,  which  filled  the  travel- 
lers with  wonder  and  admiration.  The  visit  to  Westminster 
Abbey  made  a deep  impression  upon  all,  and  this  was  expressed 
in  the  letters  they  sent  home:*  “The  very  entry  into  this 
majestic  structure,  which  is  certainly  the  finest  of  all  the  objects 
of  note  in  London , makes  an  impression  so  deep  and  solemn 
upon  the  mind,  that  we  could  scarcely  repress  our  emotion; 
and  in  reality  one  seems  to  move  no  longer  among  things  of 
this  world.  The  tones  of  a splendid  organ  may  have  contri- 
buted to  this  feeling,  — for  divine  service  was  just  being  per- 
formed, — and  this  was  followed  by  sacred  psalmody  sung 
in  double  chorus  so  pure,  so  sweet  and  executed  with  such 
feeling,  that  they  seemed  like  the  voices  of  angels  from  the 
realms  of  bliss.  We  had  neither  of  us  ever  heard  any  thing 
like  it  before.  Now  again  the  notes  of  the  organ  pealed  forth, 
and  we  distinguished  harmonies  of  Spohr's , and  soon  re- 
cognised the  touching  sounds  of  his  mass  for  ten  voices ; and  then 
the  grand  overture  to  “Des  Heilands  letzten  Stunden”  was 
splendidly  performed  by  the  celebrated  organist  Turle.  . . 

But  the  time  pressed  for  the  departure  to  Norwich,  where 


* The  extracts  given  here  and  subsequently  from  the  letters  of  Spohr’s 
relatives,  may  find  their  excuse  in  the  circumstance  that  he  himself  had 
neither  leisure  nor  inclination  to  write  letters  during  this  journey , but 
was  greatly  pleased  when  his  female  companions  wrote  home  frequently 
(which  of  course  was  always  in  harmony  with  his  own  sentiments),  — 
and  he  seldom  allowed  such  a letter  to  leave  without  having  expressed 
his  full  concurrence  with  the  contents. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


217 


professor  Taylor*  the  chief  director  of  the  whole  musical 
festival,  had  already  made  the  necessary  preliminary  rehear- 
sals of  Spohr's  oratorio,  and  now  received  the  travellers  to 
accompany  them  to  the  mayor  of  Norwich.  On  the  following 
morning  the  • mayor  took  his  guests  to  hear  divine  service  in 
the  cathedral,  which  is  of  immense  size  and  considered  one  of 
the  finest  in  England.  In  a letter  upon  the  subject  Spohr's 
relative  thus  expresses  herself : Of  such  a celebration  of  divine 
service,  though  it  lasted  nearly  three  hours,  one  is  not  readily 
weary ; the  heavenly  music  with  which  it  is  interspersed  in  various 
ways,  I cannot  describe,  and  it  is  performed  with  a purity  and 
finish  such  as  made  great  impression  also  on  Spohr  himself. 
The  congregation  did  not  sing  at  all,  but  always  followed  in 
their  hymnbooks  and  prayer-books,  the  text  of  which  (all  taken 
from  the  Bible)  I certainly  could  understand  better  than  the 
sermon.  The  choir  robed  in  white,  with  their  tender  tones, 
made  an  irresistible  impression;  words,  music,  and  execution, 
all  were  in  such  perfect  unison,  that  I could  scarcely  imagine 
a finer  worship  of  the  deity  in  heaven  itself.  When  at  the 
conclusion  we  passed  through  the  spacious  nave  of  the  magni- 
ficent building  with  the  whole  congregation,  the  masses  of 
people  arranged  themselves  on  either  side  to  permit  our  passage, 
and  looked  at  Spohr  as  something  wonderful;  many  also,  re- 
quested to  be  introduced  to  Spohr , and  our  kind  mayor,  who 
accompanied  us  and  conducted  Spohr,  was  quite  happy,  and 
proud  of  the  whole  scene.  His  daughter  Mary , a charming 

* As  a member  of  the  committee  he  had  conducted  the  correspond- 
ence with  Spohr  relative  to  his  coming,  concerning  which  the  following 
remarks  appeared  in  the  “Spectator”:  “It  is  highly  to  the  credit  of  the 
great  master,  that  to  the  question  what  compensation  he  required  for  the 
time  and  exertions  required  of  him  during  the  journey,  and  for  direction 
of  the  oratorio,  he  simply  replied : ‘The  committee  will  doubtless  have  no 
objection  to  pay  my  travelling-expenses  ? ’ We  are  glad  to  learn  that  the 
modesty  of  this  reply  and  Spohr’s  coming  to  England  without  any  further 
negotiation  on  the  matter  with  the  committee,  was  duly  recognised  by  the 
latter,  who  thereupon  came  to  the  resolution  to  present  Mr.  Spohr  with 
a sum  of  100  guineas  over  and  above  the  account  of  his  expenses. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


218 


maiden  of  fifteen,  is  also  enthusiastically  fond  of  music  and 
particularly  of  Spohr’s;  she  plays  herself  very  nicely  on  the 
piano,  and  when  her  father  informed  us  that  it  would  make 
her  exceedingly  happy  to  play  a few  notes  with  Spohr,  he 
accompanied  her  in  one  of  his  favorite  sonatas  of  Mozart.  . 

If  Spohr  had  understood  the  English  language,  the  im- 
pression made  upon  him  by  the  divine  service  would  perhaps’ 
have  been  greatly  disturbed  by  the  circumstance  that  the 
sermon  preached  upon  the  occasion  was  in  a great  measure 
levelled  against  his  oratorio.  Already  before  his  arrival  in 
Norwich,  several  persons  of  the  puritanical  party  had  raised 
their  voices  against  its  performance,  and  endeavoured  in  every 
way  both  in  print  and  in  the  pulpit  to  shew  that  it  was  pro- 
fane and  sinful  to  make  so  sacred  a subject  as  the  sufferings 
and  death  of  Christ,  a theme  for  music.  It  thus  so  happened 
that  on  the  Sunday  morning  on  which  Spohr  visited  the  ca- 
thedral a zealous  clergyman  considered  it  his  duty  to  hurl  a 
crushing  discourse  against  his  oratorio:  The  “ Calvary  ” as  it  is 
rendered  in  English,  and  at  the  conclusion  implored  his  hearers 
not  to  surrender  their  souls  for  one  day’s  pleasure,  but  to 
stop  away  from  its  performance.  The  “Monthly  Chronicle” 
further  observes  on  the  subject:  uWe  now  see  the  fanatical 
zealot  in  the  pulpit,  and  sitting  right  opposite  to  him  the 
great  composer , with  ears  happily  deaf  to  the  English  tongue ; 
but  with  a demeanour  so  becoming,  with  a look  so  full  of  pure 
good  will,  and  with  so  much  humility  and  mildness  in  the 
features,  that  his  countenance  alone  spoke  to  the  heart  like 
a good  sermon.  Without  intending  it,  we  make  a comparison, 
and  cannot  for  a moment  doubt  in  which  of  the  two  dwelt 
the  spirit  of  religion,  which  denoted  the  true  Christian!” 

On  the  day  after  the  performance  of  the  oratorio  the  same 
journal  says : “This  day  was  to  decide  the  fate  of  the  oratorio 
“Calvary,”  and  had  the  decision  been  unfavourable  the  fame  of 
Norwich  was  for  ever  departed.  The  public  mind  was  there- 
fore on  the  greatest  stretch,  for  many  persons  feared  the 
powerful  influence  of  an  adverse  clergy.  But  a better  spirit, 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


219 


a sentiment  of  right  feeling  triumphed,  and  hours  before  the 
opening  of  the  doors  the  matter  was  decided.  From  far  and 
near  the  auditory  flocked  in  thousands,  evincing  a powerful 
feeling  of  excitement,  and  an  enthusiasm  which  increased  con- 
tinually during  the  performance;  and  beyond  all  expectation, 
a complete  triumph  was  achieved.  It  may  justly  be  said  of 
this  oratorio,  that  a heavenly  inspiration  breathes  throughout; 
more  than  any  other  work  of  modern  times  it  is  one  sprung 
from  the  genial  source  of  a warm  heart,  and  cannot  be  heard 

with  a tearless  eye ” — The  bishop  of  Norwich,  who  in 

accordance  with  his  religious  bias  belonged  also  to  the  party  of 
the  opponents  of  the  oratorio,  and  was  therefore  on  a footing 
of  reserve  with  the  mayor,  was  nevertheless  desirous  to  make 
the  personal  acquaintance  of  his  celebrated  guest,  and  sent 
him  repeated  notes  of  invitation  to  dine  with  him;  as  these 
however  were  written  in  English,  they  of  necessity  were  handed 
to  the  mayor  as  interpreter  of  their  contents,  who  each  time 
transmitted  to  him  in  the  name  of  Spohr  a reply  excusing  his 
inability  to  accept  it.  At  length  it  was  proposed  that  he 
should  be  introduced  to  the  bishop  at  one  of  the  concerts, 
and  to  this  the  mayor  assented  on  the  condition  that  Spohr 
should  promise  him  to  meet  the  bishop  half  way  only,  and 
not  move  a step  farther  towards  him,  when  he  rose  from  his 
distant  seat  to  approach  Spohr . 

This  adherence  to  the  stiff  formality  of  English  ceremony, 
which  was  a special  and  prominent  feature  in  the  grandiose 
arrangements  of  the  mayor,  was  frequently  the  source  of  a variety 
of  ludicrous  scenes  and  discussions.  Thus  it  was  that  Spohr , 
on  the  first  day  that  he  had  gone  to  the  rehearsal  of  his  ora- 
torio, sent  thence  in  haste  home  to  his  female  fellow  travellers, 
who  had  remained  behind,  two  gentlemen,  strangers,  with  the 
invitation  that  they  also  should  proceed  thither,  to  share  in 
the  impressive  sight  which  the  magnificent  St.  Andrew’s  Hall 
had  presented  to  him  immediately  upon  entering  it.  As  may 
readily  be  imagined  the  ladies  acceded  to  the  invitation,  and 
accepted  unhesitatingly  the  attendance  of  the  “gentlemen  as 


Digitized  by 


Google 


220 


yet  unintroduced  to  them  in  the  house,”  by  which  they  excited 
the  astonishment  of  every  one  there,  even  to  the  very  domes- 
tics; but  they  had  the  satisfaction  of  witnessing  themselves,  upon 
arriving  at  the  hall,  the  enthusiastic  reception  with  which  the 
whole  assembly  greeted  Spohr  upon  his  entering  the  orchestra. 
Of  this  the  “Monthly  Review”  speaks  as  follows:  “I  would  have 
wished  all  the  world  had  heard  the  thunders  of  applause,  the 
very  storm  of  greetings  with  which  Spohr  was  received  by 
the  whole  orchestra,  down  to  the  very  boys  of  the  choir.  This 
reception  of  the  great  man,  which  drew  tears  of  emotion  from 
the  eyes  of  his  wife,  must  also  have  deeply  moved  him.”  On 
the  following  evening  the  first  concert  was  to  take  place,  and 
Spohr  was  to  perform  in  it  his  concertino  “Sonst  und  Jetzt” 
(“Then  and  Now”);  but  as  there  were  some  difficult  passages 
for  the  drum  in  it,  he  had  requested  the  attendance  of  the 
young  drummer-boy  at  his  residence  in  the  forenoon,  in  order 
to  give  him  personally  the  necessary  instructions  concerning 
his  part.  When  the  neat  little  fellow  made  his  appearance, 
it  was  however  found  that  he  understand  no  language  but 
English,  and  in  this  predicament  he  was  obliged  to  have  re- 
course to  the  assistance  of  the  mayor’s  amiable  little  daughter, 
who  then,  although  astonished  at  all  the  unusual  doings  in 
her  father’s  house,  willingly  endeavoured  to  explain  in  English 
to  the  strange  boy  the  remarks  made  by  Spohr  in  the  French 
language,  with  many  scientific  expressions  which  were  quite 
unintelligible  to  herself;  but  which  at  length  she  effected  with 
a result  so  accordant  with  Spohr's  wishes,  that  for  years  after- 
wards he  always  recalled  to  mind  with  real  pleasure  the  lu- 
dicrous but  interesting  scenes  of  that  charming  effort  at  inter- 
communication. 

In  the  evening  on  which  the  first  of  the  six  monster- 
concerts  took  place  in  the  spacious  hall  filled  with  nearly 
3000  persons  and  500  assistants,  a symphony  of  Haydn  and 
several  song  pieces  were  first  given,  among  which  also,  the 
duet  from  Jessonda:  “Schones  Madchen”:  but  then  as  the 
“Times”  expressed  it,  “all  eyes  were  turned  with  expectancy 


Digitized  by  Google 


221 


towards  the  orchestra  in  order  to  greet  Spohr  upon  his  ap- 
pearance with  an  enthusiastic  applause ” “A  deep 

silence  of  suspense  and  expectancy  reigned  at  the  commence- 
ment of  his  concertino,  which  he  has  called  “Sonst  und  Jetzt,” 
in  order  to  express  the  opposite  character  of  the  themes  which 
therein  denote  the  different  style  of  the  more  ancient  and  mo- 
dern compositions.”  The  opinion  upon  Spohr's  play  then  follows 
in  terms  of  the  highest  praise,  and  concludes  with  the  words : 
“His  instrument  speaks  as  eloquently  to  the  heart  as  the  finest 
melody.  The  accomplished  mastery  of  his  bow  as  of  his  fingers, 
is  yet  surpassed  by  the  wonderful  power  of  his  mens  divinior. 
The  concertino,  after  a short  but  beautiful  prelude,  begins  with 
a charming  minuet  of  the  old  school,  adorned  with  a whole 
wealth  of  harmonies,  which  seem  to  flow  of  themselves  from 
Spohr' s pen ; then  follows  a Turkish  allegro,  replete  with  fancy 
and  overflowing  with  the  brilliant  lustre  of  modern  execution.” 

A letter  written  home  and  others  describe  the  succeeding 
concerts:  “The  first  sacred  concert  on  Wednesday  morning  was 
wonderful ; it  lasted  from  half-past  1 2 to  4 clock , and  com- 
prised in  the  first  part  many  fine  old  things  of  Purcell , Pa- 
lastrina  and  others;  and  in  the  second  and  third  parts  the 
magnificent  oratorio  of  Handel : “Israel  in  Egypt;”  in  which 
the  choruses  were  executed  with  immense  power,  and  the 
soli  by  the  English  church-singers  in  the  most  perfect  manner. 
Spohr  was  inexpressibly  delighted  with  it,  and  said,  “English 
church-singers  only  are  capable  of  rendering  Handel's  sublime 
music  in  all  its  grandeur.”  A peculiar  custom  which  pleases 
me  greatly  is,  that  every  time  a chorus  expresses  the  praise 
of  God,  or  in  any  way  adverts  to  God  or  Christ,  the  whole 
mass  of  people  rise  from  their  seats,  and  listen  to  it  standing . 
— The  order  of  the  musical  pieces  in  the  evening  concert 
was  very  much  the  same  as  in  the  previous  one.  It  began 
with  Mozart's  symphony  in  E flat  major , which  was  followed  by 
twenty  other  different  subjects,  among  which  were  some  pieces 
from  operas  by  Mozart  and  Weber,  and  Spohr' s terzet  from 
“Zemira  and  Azor,”  which  is  never  omitted  at  any  English 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie  . 


222 


musical  festival.  Spohr  played  with  his  former  pupil  Blagrove 
his  charming  concertante  in  a surpassingly  fine  manner,  and 
the  effect  was  if  possible  greater  than  yesterday.  Our  hos- 
pitable host,  who  is  exceedingly  assiduous  in  his  attentions,  and 
accompanies  Spohr  every  time  on  going  and  returning,  seems 
also  extremely  happy  to  be  near  him,  and  to  joy  in  his 
high  repute.  To-day  is,  in  the  opinion  of  everybody,  the 
grand  and  most  important  day,  on  which  Spohr' s oratorio  is 
to  be  given.  You  all  know  that  music,  and  how  grand  it  is, 
but  no  one  who  was  not  present,  can  picture  to  himself  what 
it  was  here , heard  in  such  a place,  faultlessly  executed  by 
such  a mass,  and  listened  to  with  such  religious  attention  and 
enthusiasm.  At  and  after  the  first  part  one  remarked  several 
exclamations  of  delight  and  wonder,  but  at  the  second  a so- 
lemn emotion  seemed  to  reign  throughout  the  whole  auditory, 
and  more  and  more  eyes  became  suffused  with  tears ; not  the 
women  only,  but  strong  men  were  deeply  moved  And  such 
an  effect  I consider  as  the  highest  and  purest  praise.  They 
were  happy  moments  for  me  also  when  afterwards  crowds  of 
gentlemen  and  ladies  who  did  not  like  to  intrude  upon  Spohr , 
came  to  me,  to  congratulate  me,  and  assured  me  with  much 
emotion,  that  this  was  the  most  sublime  and  beautiful  thing 
that  was  ever  composed,  with  many  other  similar  expressions. 
The  third  part,  which  Spohr  listened  to  with  us  with  the 
greatest  delight,  comprised  the  requiem  of  Mozart  and  other 
pieces  of  sacred-music  by  Mozart  and  Bach.  . . .” 

The  public  papers  gave  a detailed  account  of  the  deep 
impression  made  by  Spohr s oratorio,  and. among  others  the 
“Norwich  Mercury”  said:  “The  beautiful  hall  was  crowded, 
nevertheless,  even  before  the  commencement,  a breathless  silence 
pevailed;  a solemn  religious  sentiment  reigned  throughout  the 
assembly.  The  inspired  composer  raised  his  staff  — the  staff 
descended  — and  mournful  tones,  low  and  faintly  heard  like 
distant  wailings  felt  upon  the  ear,  and  made  a powerful  impression 
on  the  feelings : the  brilliant  hall  seemed  as  though  changed  to 
a solemn  temple  — and  every  worldly  thought  was  in  an 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


223 


instant  dissipated.  — The  overture  reveals  the  character  of 
the  whole;  the  succeeding  introductory  chorus  of  the  most 
agreeable  softness  and  purity  seems  to  foreshadow  a peace  mo- 
mentarily witheld  from  us  by  a characteristic  sentiment  of 
sadness.  The  ensuing  recitative  of  St.  John  relates  the  treason 
of  Judas,  and  this  is  immediately  followed  in  striking  contrast 
by  the  aria  of  the  betrayer,  in  which  the  disorder  of  the  mind 
induced  by  the  reproofs  of  conscience  is  expressed  with  great 
power  and  truth  by  the  accompaniment.  Now  begins  the  part 
of  Mary,  with  a charming  air  accompanied  by  the  female  chorus, 
and  which,  replete  with  tenderest  devotion,  appeals  to  our 
inmost  feelings.  In  a difficult  but  very  expressive  recitative 
St.  John  prepares  us  for  the  entry  of  St.  Peter,  who  has  denied 
his  master,  and  in  the  air  sung  by  him,  replete  with  intensity 
of  expression,  the  composer  in  good  taste  and  with  correct 
judgment  expresses  the  distinction  between  the  reproving 
conscience  of  the  erring  apostle  and  the  preceding  hopeless 
agony  of  spirit  in  the  betrayer.  In  the  succeeding  chorus  reigns 
a simple  majesty,  a confidant  reliance  upon  the  justice  of  God, 
the  expression  of  which  is  eminently  successful.  — In  the  scene 
which  follows,  in  which  the  judgment  hall  is  opened  to  us  and 
Christ  denounced  before  Caiphas,  the  inspiration  of  the  com- 
poser has  reached  its  culminating  point:  the  manifold  conten- 
ding passions  — the  fiendish  excitement  of  the  populace,  the 
humble  resignation  in  the  sorrow  of  the  disciples,  the  exalted 
resignation  of  the  saviour  — all  these  are  brought  by  him 
with  such  painful  truthfulness  of  expression  before  the  mind, 
that  we  feel  it  impossible  to  approach  in  music  nearer  to 
reality  and  truth  than  Spohr  has  succeeded  in  doing  in  his 
treatment  of  this  pre-eminently  tragic  moment  of  the  Redeemer’s 
life, 

The  second  part  begins  with  an  introductory  funeral 
march,  and  a striking  chorus  of  the  disciples  expressive  of 
their  sympathy  with  and  lamentations  for  the  fate  of  their 
master.  The  ensuing  chorus  of  the  priests  and  people,  who 
wildly  and  savagely  taunt  the  redeemer  upon  the  cross,  is  in 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


224 


our  opinion  almost  the  most  powerful  and  wonderful  passage 
in  the  whole  work.  The  moving  recitative  of  John  and  Mary  is, 
moreover,  intense  in  its  effect,  and  their  aria  full  of  melody 
and  grace,  close  upon  which  follows  the  gem  of  the  whole 
oratorio,  the  unsurpassable  terzet  for  two  soprani  and  an  alto, 
“Jesus,  himmlische  Liebe”  (Jesus,  heavenly  love),  with  its  sweetly 
soothing  harmonies.  This  terzet  is  a master-piece  of  the 
purest  finish ; Spohr  himself  never  wrote  any  thing  more  beau- 
tiful. The  solemn  earnestness  of  the  chorus:  “Allgiitiger  Gott,” 
with  the  canonic  entrata  at  the  words:  “In  seiner  Todesnoth,” 
is  indeed  in  conception  and  form  the  most  original.  In  masterly 
recitatives  John  prepares  us  for  the  concluding  scene,  and  after 
tljp  last  words  of  Jesus : “It  is  fulfilled,”  the  low  sound  of  distant 
thunder  is  heard,  which  continues  as  though  warningly  during 
the  fine  and  truly  pious  quartet.  And  now  the  orchestra  seems 
to  burst  all  bounds,  and  to  contend  in  one  wild  storm,  which 
the  powerful  hand  of  the  composer  can  alone  direct  and  allay. 
We  have  already  heard  many  musical  representations  of  storm 
and  tempest,  but  as  yet  nothing  at  all  like  this ; and  we  think 
that  this  immense  effect  is  derived  from  Spohr’s  seizing  the 
powerful  phenomena  of  nature  more  in  their  general  grandeur 
than  in  their  detail.  We  are  struck  with  awe  at  the  over- 
powering effect  itself  and  with  wonder  at  the  mind  that  could  so 
apply  and  direct  all  the  resources  of  art.  A recitative  with 
splendid  modulations  leads  to  the  short  choral  passage  of  the 
disciples,  in  which  the  divinity  of  the  Redeemer  is  proclaimed, 
simply,  firmly  and  powerfully.  The  final  chorus,  a prayer 
of  the  disciples  full  of  sorrow  and  hopeful  faith,  is  simple, 
melodious  and  elevated ; a poetical  outpouring  in  music,  which 
must  excite  the  sympathy  of  every  human  being  who  has  a 
trusting  belief  in  a future  life.  — When  the  last  accord  died 
away  in  its  tragic  grandeur,  we  looked  around  us  — not  a 
breath  was  to  be  heard,  deep  silence  everywhere  — all  were 
impressed  with  feelings  more  powerful  than  they  could  express. 
It  was  a moment  of  holy  reverential  exstacy  — no  noisy  out- 
burst of  rapture,  — the  impression  was  too  overpowering  for 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


225 


earthly  utterance,  — but  it  was  a lasting  one,  and  will  as- 
suredly never  be  forgotten.” 

The  English  newspapers  spoke  also  respecting  Spohr’s 
manner  of  conducting,  and  the  “Spectator”  said  on  the  sub- 
ject: “It  is  truly  delightful,  wonderful  in  precision  and  firmness 
of  tact,  and  at  the  same  time  accompanied  by  motions  plainly 
indicative  of  the  effect  proposed.”  And  again:  “We  see  in 
Spohr , a man  who  has  a clear  comprehension  of  his  object, 
and  knows  his  work  as  thoroughly  in  all  its  details  as  in  the 
whole.  At  the  rehearsal,  whenever  a note  was  missed,  he  sang 
it,  in  whatever  harmony  it  might  chance  to  be,  and  in  doing 
so  his  voice  was  very  melodious.” 

The  letter  previously  referred  to  says  further,  in  reference 
to  the  following  days,  under  the  date  of  September  20th: 
“Yesterday,  before  the  commencement  of  the  evening  concert, 
a deputation  from  the  committee  waited  upon  Spohr  with  the 
request  to  play  his  concertino  once  more;  this,  however,  he 
decidedly  begged  to  be  excused  compliance  with,  and  the  more 
so,  as  he  had  already  agreed  to  direct  in  person  the  overture 
to  and  air  from  “Faust,”  with  which  the  second  part  of  the 
concert  began.  Immediately  he  enteral  the  orchestra  for  that 
purpose,  he  was  again  greeted  with  loud  and  long  continued 
applause,  in  which  doubtless  the  audience  expressed,  besides, 
their  sense  of  admiration  of  his  oratorio,  which,  according  to 
English  custom,  could  not  be  applauded  at  the  time  of  per- 
formance. To-day  Handel’s  splendid  “Messiah”  was  given  for 
finale,  which  here  also  never  fails  to  make  its  constant  im- 
pression. And  now  at  length  the  grand  festival  has  terminated 
with  all  its  pleasures  and  magnificences  I It  indeed  required 
an  inspired  and  corporeal  strength  of  frame  such  as  Spohr 
fortunately  possesses,  to  hear  in  the  short  space  of  so  few 
days  the  ordeal  of  six  concerts  of  four  and  a half  hours’  duration 
each,  besides  rehearsals  and  daily  dinner  parties,  with  unim- 
paired freshness  of  spirit  — ■ not  to  speak  of  all  the  visits  paid 
him  and  the  strangest  requests  from  far  and  near,  with  which  he 
complied  as  far  as  he  could.  The  last  day  with  its  scenes  of 

SPOHB,  Autobiography.  II.  ir 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


226 


leavetaking,  was  also  a very  trying  one  to  the  feelings,  and  cost 
me  I must  confess , many  tears.  — The  parting  from  all  the 
kind  people  who,  although  we  were  strangers  to  them,  had  re- 
ceived us  with  such  great  heartiness,  was  very  painful.  When 
next  I see  you  I will  relate  many  wonderful  instances  of  the 
amiability  of  these  Englishmen,  and  of  their  admiration  of 
Spohr , which  even  extended  itself  to  me.  But  the  estimation  in 
which  Spohr  is  held  here  in  England,  and  the  manner  in  which 
this  is  evinced  on  all  sides  is  almost  incredible”.  . . . 

After  so  brilliant  a success  of  Spohr's  oratorio,  and  after 
he  had  himself  witnessed,  as  the  “Spectator”  expresses  it  — 
“How  the  orchestra  and  singers  competed  to  shew  him  that 
England  was  the  country  of  all  others  best  fitted  for  the  per- 
formance of  his  oratorio,”  nothing  could  be  more  agreeable  to 
him  than  the  proposal  made  to  him  during  his  stay,  to  com- 
pose especially  a new  oratorio  for  the  next  Norwich  musical 
festival,  which  would  take  place  in  1842. 

Scarcely  was  he  returned  to  Cassel  than  professor 
Taylor  sent  him  the  English  text  of  “The  fall  of  Babylon,” 
of  his  composition,  the  text  of  which,  though  much  to 
Spohr' s liking,  it  was  Necessary  first  to  have  translated  into 
German,  as  he  had  not  confidence  sufficient  in  his  knowledge 
of  the  English  language  to  undertake  the  composition  from 
the  original  text.  Though  the  translation  did  not  so  completely 
succeed  in  a truthful  rendering  of  the  expressions  and  rhythm 
of  the  English  text,  as  that  this  could  subsequently  be  adapted 
to  the  composition  without  much  alteration,  it  nevertheless 
sufficed  so  well  for  the  desired  object  that  Spohr  could  pro- 
ceed at  once  upon  a work  which  so  greatly  interested  him. 
Filled  with  real  inspiration  for  the  task,  he  devoted  thereto 
every  leisure  hour  that  remained  to  him  from  his  numerous 
professional  duties,  nor  did  he  rest  until  he  had  completed  the 
whole  and  satisfied  himself  with  its  performance  on  the  piano- 
forte at  the  St.  Cecilia  festival  of  1840,  that  he  had  fully  suc- 
ceeded in  it.  In  pursuance  of  an  understanding  with  the 
Norwich  committee  a public  performance  of  it  with  full  or- 


Digitized  by  Google 


227 


chestra  was  to  take  place  in  Cassel  on  the  ensuing  Oood 
Friday  of  1841  and  a second  at  Easter  1842,  but  with  these 
exceptions  the  work  was  to  remain  unused  and  in  abeyance 
until  the  Norwich  festival  in  the  autumn  of  the  latter  year, 
and  then  first  be  made  public  simultaneously  in  England  and 
Germany  in  both  languages.  — 

But  to  return  to  the  year  1840,  which  Spohr  entered 
upon  with  great  activity  in  the  preparatory  studies  for  the 
representation  of  the  opera  “The  Lovers’  Duel,”  which  till 
then  had  never  been  performed  in  Cassel;  for  the  principal 
characters  of  which  he  had  just  then  found  suitable  per- 
formers. The  first  representation  took  place  for  the  benefit 
of  the  relief  fund,  and  with  a very  full  house  brought  unusually 
good  receipts,  which  however  unfortunately  were  extracted 
from  the  treasury  of  the  theatre  on  the  following  night  in  the 
most  incomprehensible  manner,  and  despite  the  well-secured 
locality  in  which  the  money  was  deposited.  But  a very  small 
amount  could  then  be  collected  to  replace  this  loss  to  the  relief 
fund,  a circumstance  which  greatly  marred  the  satisfaction 
Spohr  had  derived  from  the  success  of  his  opera,  which  had 
met  with  a most  gratifying  reception  from  the  public. 

About  this  time  Spohr  received  an  invitation  from  Aix-la- 
Chapelle  to  direct  the  musical  festival  of  the  district  of  the 
Lower  Rhine,  which  was  to  be  held  there;  on  which  occasion 
a very  pressing  solicitation  for  his  leave  of  absence  was  ad- 
dressed to  the  Prince  on  the  part  of  the  committee.  This 
memorial  had  the  desired  effect;  for  shortly  afterwards  the 
Prince  sent  for  Spohr , and  tendered  him  of  his  own  accord  in 
the  most  friendly  manner  the  leave  of  absence  he  had  not  yet 
solicited. 

As  every  obstacle  was  now  smoothed  away,  Spohr  set  out 
upon  his  journey  at  the  end  of  May,  and  was  not  only  received 
upon  his  arrival  in  Aix-la-Chapelle  with  serenades  of  welcome, 
but  also  on  his  putting  up  for  each  night  at  Frankfort  and 
Cologne  on  his  journey  through.  In  the  splendidly  furnished 
house  of  the  notary  Pascal , in  which  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Spohr  found 

15* 


Digitized  by  foozle 


228 


a most  hospitable  reception,  the  succeeding  days  devoted  to 
the  necessary  rehearsals  passed  quickly  and  agreeably.  On 
Whitsunday,  in  the  theatre,  which  had  been  converted  into 
a music  saloon,  Handel's  “Judas  Maccabeus’’  was  performed, 
of  which  some  epistolary  notices  spoke  as  fellows:  “When 
Spohr  entered  the  orchestra  to  conduct  the  oratorio  he  was 
received  with  enthusiastic  applause;  we  had  the  best  places 
in  the  first  row  reserved  for  us,  exactly  opposite  to  where  the 
very  prettily  arranged  mass  of  five  hundred  and  forty-seven 
co-operators,  brilliantly  illuminated,  presented  a very  charming 
coup  d’oeil.  The  music,  which  had  already  greatly  pleased  us 
by  its  splendid  effect  in  the  rehearsals,  was  now  naturally 
heard  to  yet  greater  advantage.  The  solo  singers  — Mrs.  Fischer- 
Achten , Albertazzi  and  Muller , Mr.  de  Vrucht  from  Amsterdam 
and  Mr.  Fischer  — good  as  they  were  on  the  whole,  did  not  make 
upon  us  the  same  impression  of  finished  excellence  as  did  the 
choruses,  which  completely  charmed  us.”  In  the  second  concert 
also,  in  which  besides  Spohr's  “Lord’s  Prayer,”  the  overture  to 
“Medea,”  the  A major  symphony  of  Beethoven , and  Mozart's 
Damdde  penitente , were  performed,  Spohr  upon  every  entry 
and  exit  was  greeted  with  unbounded  applause /and  at  the 
termination  a wreath  of  laurel  was  presented  to  him  by  two 
young  ladies.  In  the  third  concert,  of  a mixed  character, 
Mrs.  Fischer- Achten , and  Albertazzi,  with  the  celebrated 
Staudigl  of  Vienna,  were  respectively  heard  and  excited  general 
admiration.  The  singing  of  all  three,  was  each  in  its  kind 
what  may  be  termed  of  the  most  perfect  finish.  As  worthy 
finale  to  the  whole,  the  repetition  of  the  last  magnificent  chorus 
from  Spohr's  “Lord’s  Prayer”  followed,  which  again  drew  from 

the  audience  the  most  enthusiastic  bursts  of  applause ” 

As  on  the  following  forenoon  the  brothers  Mullin'  of  Bruns- 
wick gave  a quartet  concert  in  the  “Redoutensaal Spohr 
delayed  his  departure,  at  their  urgent  entreaty,  in  order  to  play 
his  third  double  quartet  with  them,  which  was  again  also 
rewarded  with  its  usual  rapturous  ovation.  In  this  manner 
was  this  grand  festival  brought  to  a successful  termination, 


Digitized  by  Google 


229 


and  the  general  satisfaction  which  it  had  elicited  was  but 
little  detracted  from  by  the  reproving  voice  of  Mr.  A.  Schindler , 
whose  cartes  de  visites  made  him  known  as  “ami  de  Beethoven  ” 
and  who  in  previous  musical  festivals  had  begun  to  distinguish 
himself  by  his  disputes  with  Mendelssohn  respecting  his  slow 
tempi  in  the  conducting  of  works  of  Beethoven's,  and  now  also 
in  a similar  manner  found  fault  with  Spohr  for  his  manner 
of  conducting  the  A major  symphony.  This  — with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  general  disapprobation  that  it  elicited  — had 
no  further  result  than  that  Spohr , at  the  urgent  and 
reiterated  desire  of  the  committee,  replied  to  Schindler  in  a 
short  but  decisive  letter,  but  which,  couched  in  Spohr' s usual 
mild  language,  did  not  disturb  thef  personal  understanding  of 
either  during  the  festival. 

After  a few  week’s  return  only,  to  Cassel,  and  during  the 
theatrical  vacation,  Spohr  set  out  upon  another  journey  and 
proceeded  first  to  Gandersheim,  where  all  his  brothers  with  their 
families  were  assembled,  to  pay  a last  visit  to  their  mother, 
who  was  dangerously  ill,  and  who,  in  spite  of  her  suffering 
condition,  felt  extreme  pleasure  in  seeing  them  round  her. 
Although  she  had  not  left  her  room  for  several  weeks,  and 
had  therefore  been  unable  to  go  up  stairs  to  the  upper 
story  of  the  house,  yet  when  she  heard  that  Spohr  was  going 
to  play  something  with  his  wife  in  the  music-room  there,  she 
requested  to  be  assisted  to  get  up  there,  “to  hear  her  loved  son 
for  the  last  time,  and  in  fancy  to  dream  away  in  listening  to  his 
tones;”  and  upon  that  occasion,  seated  in  the  midst  of  her 
children,  listened  to  him  with  joyful  emotion  and  interest.  As 
on  the  days  immediately  ensuing  a visible  improvement  in  her 
condition  seemed  to  have  taken  place  Spohr,  in  full  hopes  of 
greeting  his  mother  once  more  upon  his  return,  continued 
his  journey  to  Liibeck  with  a mind  more  at  rest.  But 
alas!  his  hopes  were  not  realised,  for  before  he  returned  to 
Gandersheim  he  received  the  lamentable  announcement  of  her 
death  1 

From  Liibeck  Spohr  proceeded  to  Hamburg,  where  he 


Digitized  by 


C • 3gle 


230 


arrived  just  in  time  to  undertake  the  direction  of  his  opera 
“Jessonda.”  The  performance  of  the  opera,  in  which  Mrs.  Walker 
as  Jessonda,  and  Mr.  Reichel  as  Dandau,  especially  distinguished 
themselves,  was  in  every  respect  a great  success,  and  there 
were  immense  applause  and  loud  demonstrations  in  honour  of 
Spohr.  As  it  took  place  immediately  after  the  close  of  the 
performances  of  the  Italian  operas,  the  “Hamburger  Zeitung” 
gave  a comparative  notice  in  its  next  issue  of  these  two  dif- 
ferent kinds  of  musical  entertainment.  It  began  with  the 
words:  “On  Saturday  the  whole  song-loving  company  of  Italian 
operatic  performers  departed  in  high  spirits ; on  Sunday, 
Spohr  the  German  master  took  the  director’s  chair  in  the 
town  theatre  to  conduct ' his  splendid  “Jessonda”  in  per- 
son. With  the  former , abundance  of  noise,  merriment,  and 
somewhat  of  dissension,  to-do,  and  submissive  politeness  — 
but  here , calm,  noble  dignity,  honest  thanks,  becoming  de- 
meanour, and  permanent  merit  &c.”  Further  on  it  adds:  “The 
lovers  of  music  in  Hamburg  celebrated  on  Sunday  a real 
musical  festival  in  the  theatre ; they  were  not  only  enabled  to 
express  aloud  their  recognition  of  the  German  master,  but  they 
had  the  opportunity  also  of  drawing  a comparison  between 
‘Jessonda’  and  ‘Lucretia  Borgia.’  In  ‘Jessonda’  all  is  tender 
yearning,  and  sweet  hope,  the  golden  age  of  fond  first  love:  in 
“Lucretia  Borgia”  Hyena-like  cunning  in  the  poison-envenomed 
breast;  nothing  of  love’s  purity,  loves  grosser  passion  alone; 
and  in  the  same  relative  characteristic  proportion  is  the  poesy 
of  the  music.”  No  one  experienced  more  delight  at  this  new 
triumph  of  Spohr  than  his  enthusiastic  admirer  Julius  Schu- 
berth, the  well-known  music  publisher,  under  whose  hospitable 
roof  Spohr  and  his  travelling  companions  spent  most  agreeably 
the  four  days  of  their  stay  in  Hamburgh,  which  their  kind 
host  strove  by  every  possible  means,  to  render  a series  of 
festive  pleasures  and  of  distinguishing  attentions.  Among 
others  a brilliant  musical  party  was  got  up  in  which  Spohr 
performed  some  of  his  quartetts,  and  was  greatly  charmed  with 
Miss  Unna's  beautiful  execution  in  his  quintet  for  the  pianoforte. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


231 


Upon  this  occasion  Schuberth  expressed  so  great  a wish  to 
publish  some  similar  grander  pianoforte  pieces  of  Spohr’s  com- 
position, that  the  latter  was  induced  to  write  shortly  after  his 
return  from  Hamburg,  his  first  trio  for  pianoforte,  violin  and 
violincello,  * and  therewith  at  the  same  time  fulfilled  a wish 
that  had  been  for  years  reiterated  by  Mrs.  de  Malsburg , the 
distinguished  dilettante  pianiste,  to  whom  he  then  dedicated 
the  work.  This  first  trio  by  Spohr  (Op.  119)  was  welcomed  with 
great  satisfaction  by  the  musical  world,  and  numerous  journals 
far  and  near  expressed  their  delight  and  thanks  upon  its  ap- 
pearance. The  “Leipzic  New  Musical  Journal”  speaks  of  it  in 
the  following  terms:  “Although  the  great  master  has  never 
written  any  thing  of  this  kind  until  now,  he  nevertheless  moves 
in  this  new  genre  with  true  artistic  consciousness  of  power, 
and  with  genial  freedom.  The  trio  is  one  of  the  finest  pro- 
ductions of  the  genius  of  Spohr , in  which  together  with  the 
greatest  possible  finish  in  form,  a profusion  of  beauties  of  the 
first  class,  and  master  strokes  of  genius  stand  out  in  prom- 
inent relief.  As  the  gem  of  the  whole  the  scherzo  and  its 
trio  must  be  mentioned.  Here,  as  though  at  the  stroke  of  the 
magician’s  wand,  a fairy  island  of  the  blessed  rises  to  the 
imagination,  — we  are  environed  as  though  by  a garden  of 
wonders,  a blooming  oasis  of  sound  full  of  the  deep  glowing 
splendour  of  oriental  colouring!  ....  It  is  moreover  exceed- 
ingly remarkable  how  Spohr  here  understood  the  way  to 
unite  two  elements  which  are  otherwise  strangers  and  indeed 
usually  antagonistic  to  each  other : the  humoristic  and  the  im- 
passioned, elegiacally  tender  element  of  feeling ” 

At  the  commencement  of  the  year  1841  Spohr  wrote  a 
fantasia  for  pianoforte  and  violin  on  themes  from  his  opera 
uDer  Alchymist”  (The  Alchymist),  the  charming  melodies 
of  which  were  especially  favourable  to  such  a reconstruc- 
tion (Op.  117,  Vienna,  published  by  Mechetti)\  an  English 
psalm  for  soli , with  chorus  and  organ  accompaniment 
(Op.  122,  published  by  SimrocJc  of  Bonn);  and  a song, 


Digitized  by  Google 


232 


“Schill,”  for  men’s  voices,  with  accompaniment  of  military 
music,  written  for  the  inauguration  of  SchilVs  asylum  for  in- 
valids at  Brunswick,  and  which  was  next  publicly  given  by 
the  Casseler  glee  society  at  a concert  for  charitable  purposes, 
and  met  with  such  general  approbation  that  Spohr  conceived 
the  idea  of  sending  it  to  Frankfort  and  therewith  fulfil  his 
promise  of  a contribution  to  the  “Collection  of  small  com- 
positions to  the  Mozart  institution.”  Upon  the  same  occasion 
he  replied  to  a question  which  had  been  put  to  him  concerning 
a qualified  candidate  to  the  first  stipend  paid  by  that  institution, 
by  recommending  Jean  Bott  of  Cassel,  although  but  14  years 
of  age,  and  wrote  of  him  in  the  following  terms:  u Bott  is  a 
virtuose  on  the  violin  and  pianoforte  and  even  now  displays 
so  remarkable  a talent  for  composition,  that  I anticipate  for 
him  a brilliant  future.  He  has  been  a pupil  of  mine  on  the 
violin  for  the  last  six  months,  and  I never  yet  had  one  so 
clever.  Hauptmann  (his  instructor  in  composition)  says  the 
same  of  him.”  Supported  by  such  distinguished  recommend- 
ations the  young  musician,  after  the  works  which  he  had  sent 
in  had  been  submitted  to  the  test,  received  the  desired  stipend 
for  one  year,  followed  up  his  studies  under  Spohr  and  Haupt- 
mann with  great  zeal,  and  while  yet  a boy  received  an  ap- 
pointment in  the  Cassel  “Hofkapelle.” 

As  Spohr  had  proposed  to  himself  to  pass  the  theatrical 
vacation  this  time  in  a trip  to  Switzerland,  he  determined 
upon  going  thither  by  the  way  of  Stuttgard  and  Hechingen, 
in  order  to  make  the  personal  acquaintance  of  the  reigning 
Prince  of  Hohenzollern-Hechingen,  who  at  various  times  had 
written  to  him,  and  shown  himself  to  be  an  enthusiastic  lover 
of  music  by  expressing  his  admiration  of  Spohr's  “Weihe  der 
Tone”  in  terms  of  great  praise. 

As  Spohr’s  intended  visit  at  Hechingen  was  known  before- 
hand he  was  welcomed  there  upon  his  arrival  in  the  most 
heartfelt  manner.  What  took  place  during  their  stay  here  was 
thus  described  in  a letter  written  home:  u0n  the  very  first 
evening  Kapellmeister  Tdglichsbeck  and  Court- Councillor  Schil- 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


233 


ling  came  to  fetch  us  from  Stuttgard,  to  drive  us  about 
the  town,  and  for  the  purpose,  as  they  said,  of  showing  us  the 
new  concert-hall.  But  on  our  arrival  there,  to  our  surprise 
we  found  a numerous  company  assembled,  and  we  were  re- 
ceived by  the  Prince  in  the  most  gracious  and  friendly  manner. 
After  a short  conversation,  he  led  Spohr  to  an  elevated  plat- 
form, upon  which  the  whole  orchestra  were  assembled,  and  in 
front  the  head  Pastor , Beiners  (who  was  also  contrebassist 
in  the  orchestra),  who  then  adressed  Spohr  in  a solemn  and 
very  impressive  speech  of  welcome,  at  the  conclusion  of  which 
the  hall  resounded  with  such  an  outburst  of  enthusiastic  greet- 
ings, accompanied  by  music,  that  one  might  have  thought  it 
was  filled  with  thousands  of  spectators.  After  this  the  Prince 
seated  himself  near  Spohr , and  to  our  great  surprise  and 
pleasure  his  splendid  fifth  symphony  ( C minor ) fell  upon  the 
ear,  and  was  performed  throughout  with  the  greatest  finish  and 
inspiration.  During  its  performance  the  Prince  evinced  feelings 
of  delight  such  as  we  had  never  yet  witnessed,  he  could  scarcely 
control  himself;  held  Spohr  constantly  by  the  arm  or  hand, 
and  not  only  whispered  to  him  his  admiration  at  every  pas- 
sage, but  frequently  gave  expression  to  his  feelings  aloud.  . . . 

When  the  Prince  had  ascertained  whether  Spohr  would 
sup  or  not  in  the  dining-room  below,  he  gave  orders  for  a 
place  to  be  reserved  for  him  next  to  Spohr , although  , as 
sovereign  Prince,  he  had  never  yet  partaken  of  a meal  in  a 
tavern.  This  supper  was  most  remarkable  and  amusing:  be- 
sides the  Prince,  who  sat  between  me  and  Spohr , and  was 
very  lively,  the  whole  beau  monde  of  Hechingen  was  assembled 
to  see  Spohr , and  each  ordered  supper  according  to  his 
own  fancy.  Gentlemen  of  the  chamber,  clergymen,  councillors, 
and  their  wives,  mingled  pele  mele , did  and  said  a thousand 
humorous  things,  and  evinced  an  extraordinary  musical  en- 
thusiasm. Spohr  also  was  greatly  pleased  to  have  made  the 
acquaintance  of  this  happy,  music-mad  little  spot  of  Germany. 
Music,  particularly  that  of  Spohr , is  everything  here,  and 
ladies  and  gentlemen  know  his  symphonies  and  quartets  in  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


234 


manner  such  as  very  few  in  Cassel  know  them.  If  at  eleven 
o’clock  at  night  we  had  not  risen  to  depart,  in  spite  of  the 
Prince,  he  would  not  have  done  so,  for  he  is  quite  in  love 
with  Spohr.  On  the  following  morning  before  eight  o’clock 
some  one  knocked  again  at  our  door,  and  his  serene  highness 
entered  to  enquire  how  we  had  slept  in  Hechingen.  He  then 
took  us  into  the  palace  gardens  and  into  the  very  pretty  little 
palace  itself,  where  we  were  to  rehearse  our  trio  for  the  music 
party  that  had  been  agreed  upon  for  the  evening.  When  we  had 
played  through  the  first  part,  he  availed  himself  of  the  short 
pause  to  fetch  his  wife  also,  that  she  might  share  his  pleasure, 
and  thus  we  were  saved  the  already  arranged  formalities  of 
a court  presentation.  ...  We  were  invited  to  dinner  at  Tag- 
lichsbeclt's ; but  scarcely  was  the  dinner  over,  than  the  Prince 
came  again  with  two  court  carriages,  in  which  the  whole  com- 
pany drove  to  the  charming  country  palace  “Lindig,”  the  beau- 
tiful view  round  which  filled  us  all,  and  Spohr  especially, 
with  the  greatest  delight.  ...”  Of  the  evening  court-party 
that  followed,  the  same  letter  says:  “In  a vaulted  saloon  built 
especially  for  musical  performances  a double  quartet  was  first 
played  by  Spohr  in  a manner  quite  wonderful,  then  the  Prince 
sang  several  songs  with  much  expression,  and  at  last  came 
our  trio.  The  company,  consisting  mostly  of  officials  and  of 
but  few  musicians,  was  in  raptures  of  delight,  and  gave  evi- 
dence in  their  remarks  of  much  musical  intelligence.  At  last 
supper  was  served  up  at  small  separate  tables  each  accom- 
modating four  persons;  at  the  chief  table  Spohr  was  shewn 
to  a seat  next  to  the  Princess,  who  evinced  great  amiability 
and  kindness  towards  him,  while  the  Prince  in  the  best  of 
spirits  was  my  neighbour. 

Our  departure  was  fixed  for  the  following  morning,  but 
the  Prince  declaring  that  he  could  not  yet  part  with  Spohr, 
expressed  the  intention  of  accompanying  him  one  post,  and 
then  of  dining  with  us  once  more,  and  “not  to  appear  ego- 
tistical, to  enjoy  the  pleasure  alone,”  invited  a whole  party, 
who  were  to  accompany  us  in  his  carriage.  Two  gentlemen 


Digitized  by 


Google 


235 


were  sent  on  in  our  carriage,  to  order  a dinner  for  sixteen 
persons  at  the  small  town  of  Balingen  three  leagues  distant. 
. . . During  the  dinner,  which  consisted  of  a great  number  of 
excellent  dishes,  and  at  which  also  the  champaign,  brought 
from  the  Prince’s  cellars,  was  not  wanting,  the  conversation 
was  extremely  lively  and  seasoned  with  many  witty  sallies, 
but  always  intermingled  with  the  prominent  sentiment  of  that 
musical  enthusiasm,  in  which  the  Prince  is  really  imbued  to 
a singular  degree. 

At  length  however  the  long- deferred  parting  moment  ar- 
rived! The  cheerful  voice  grew  silent,  and  a mournful  still- 
ness came  over  all;  the  Prince  was  quite  beside  himself;  he 
embraced  Spohr  repeatedly,  and  when  we  had  at  length  taken 
our  seats  in  the  carriage,  he  was  once  more  surrounded  by  the 
company,  and  the  Prince  declared  in  the  name  of  all  that 
these  days  which  had  brought  such  happiness  to  Hechingen 
should  be  commemorated  the  following  year  by  a festival.” 

Carrying  with  him  the  most  agreable  recollections  of  the 
time  they  had  passed  there,  Spohr  and  his  wife  now  resumed 
their  journey  to  Switzerland,  the  chief  object  of  which  was  to 
enjoy  the  beauties  of  nature;  but  they  were  also  enabled  to 
combine  therewith  a visit  to  the  musical  festival  whiqh  was  about 
to  take  place  at  Lucerne.  Although  Spohr  had  declined  the 
invitation  which  he  had  received  at  Cassel  to  direct  at  the 
festival,  it  afforded  him  nevertheless  much  pleasure  to  be 
present  at  it  among  the  auditory.  On  the  first  day  his  oratorio : 
“Des  Heilands  letzte  Stunden,”  was  performed  in  the  fine 
church  of  St.  Xavier,  in  which  the  solo  parts  were  sustained 
chiefly  by  dilettanti,  with  the  exception  of  that  of  Mary,  by 
Mrs.  Stockhausen , who  had  already  acquired  great  celebrity 
in  it  at  the  Norwich  festival,  and  all  of  whom  sang  “with 
truly  angelic  voices.”  The  choruses  also,  were  excellent,  and 
the  orchestra  only  did  not  quite  satisfy  Spohr's  artistic  ex- 
pectations. The  oratorio  excited  here  also  general  enthu- 
siasm, but  the  travellers  missed  here  “the  deep  devotion,  the 
chnstian-like  comprehension  and  pious  mental  resignation,” 


Digitized  by 


Gbogle 


236 


which  they  had  remarked  in  the  English  auditory  of  the  year 
before.  The  oratorio  was  followed  by  a brilliant  festal  over- 
ture by  Lindpaintner  and  another  oratorio,  the  u Chris ti  Himmel- 
fahrt”  (the  Ascension),  by  Neukomm , at  which  the  composer  was 
also  present,  and  was  greatly  gratified  by  Spohr's  approbation, 
who  praised  the  choruses  and  the  fugues.  In  the  second  concert, 
which  was  a miscellaneous  one,  the  songs  sung  by  Mrs.  Stock- 
hausen (mother  of  the  recently  celebrated  baritone)  were 
the  points  of  attraction ; but  two  distinguished  dilletanti, 
doctor  Ziegler  and  his  sister,  from  Winterthur,  were  likewise 
much  applauded  in  the  duet  from  “Jessonda.” 

On  the  return  journey  from  Switzerland,  Spohr  stopped  for 
a few  days  in  Frankfort,  in  order  to  be  present  at  the  performance 
of  Gluck's  “Iphigenia  in  Aulis.”  The  chief  characters,  Iphigenia 
and  Agamemnon  were  ably  represented  by  Miss  Capitan  and  Mr. 
Pischek,  and  it  afforded  the  more  pleasure  to  Spohr  to  hear  the 
noble  simplicity  of  this  fine  music  rendered  in  a satisfactory 
manner,  as  his  repeated  endeavours  to  introduce  an  opera  of 
Gluck  into  the  repertory  of  the  Cassel  theatre  had  been 
always  unsuccessful,  and  he  could  not  hope  for  any  better 
success  for  the  future. 

Scarcely  was  Spohr  returned  to  Cassel  than  he  began 
with  great  zeal  a new  work,  the  plan  of  which  he  had  con- 
ceived upon  the  journey,  while  in  view  of  the  magnificent 
Swiss  mountains  and  lakes.  When  once  more  seated  with  his 
wife  in  the  carriage,  on  his  return  from  the  Lucern  musical 
festival,  he  told  her  with  the  greatest  joy,  that,  inspired  and 
refreshed  with  all  the  beautiful  and  pleasing  impressions  made 
upon  him  by  nature  and  art  combined,  — he  felt  the  strongest 
impulse  to  write  a truly  grand  orchestral  work,  and  if  possible 
in  some  new  and  more  extended  form  of  the  symphony.  On 
the  half-sportive  reply  which  she  made  to  him:  “If  the  simple 
symphony  does  not  give  sufficient  scope  to  your  creative  faculty, 
then  write  a double  symphony  for  two  orchestras,  in  the  style 
of  the  double  quartet,”  he  seized  the  suggestion  immediately 
with  much  warmth  and  thereupon  sank  into  a deep  reverie, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


237 


as  though  he  were  already  beginning  the  composition,  but 
soon  after,  added : that,  exceedingly  attractive  as  the  problem 
was,  it  could  only  be  successfully  carried  out  if  made  sub- 
servient to  the  expression  of  a determinate  idea  — and  that 
two  orchestras  should  have  given  to  them  respectively  the 
expression  of  a meaning  and  sentiment  in  strong  contrast  with 
each  other.  After  long  reflection  and  study;  and  after  suc- 
cessive rejection  of  many  self-proposed  formulae,  he  at  length, 
as  though  by  inspiration,  seized  the  idea : to  represent  the  two 
principles  of  good  and  evil  in  the  human  heart  by  the  two 
orchestras,  and  to  give  the  name  to  the  double  symphony  of 
“Irdisches  und  Gottliches  im  Menschenleben”  (the  earthly  and 
the  divine  in  the  life  of  man).  The  first  subject  should  be 
called  “Kinderwelt”  (the  world  of  childhood);  the  second  “Zeit 
der  Leidenschaften”  (the  age  of  the  passions);  the  third  “End- 
licher  Sieg  des  Gottlichen”  (the  final  victory  of  the  divine 
principle) ; besides  which  a special  explanatory  motto  was  to  be 
given  to  each  theme.  After  this  manner  the  plan  was  con- 
ceived with  a heart  overflowing  with  pleasure,  and  then  carried 
out  with  real  enthusiasm.  As  regards  the  opinion  respecting 
the  degree  of  success  with  which  he  achieved  the  performance 
of  so  extremely  difficult  a task  — that  was  of  course  a matter 
to  be  left  entirely  to  the  individuality  of  the  hearers;  but  in 
the  first  performance  of  the  work  in  Cassel  under  his  own 
direction  and  in  the  spirit  of  its  composer,  it  excited  the 
greatest  admiration  in  an  attentively  listening  auditory;  for 
while  connoisseurs  acknowledged  the  excellence  of  the  music, 
apart  from  its  special  motive  or  subject,  the  feelings  of  the 
uniniated  were  in  a high  degree  moved  and  satisfied.  Such  is 
the  report  of  it  contained  in  one  letter  out  of  many  written 
at  that  time:  “Last  evening  Spohr’s  new  double  symphony  for 
two  orchestras  took  place;  the  larger  and  more  numerously 
filled  orchestra  represented  the  evil  principle,  the  small  one, 
consisting  only  of  eleven  solo  instruments  represented  on  the 
contrary  the  principle  of  good.  In  the  subject  “The  world  of 
childhood”  the  latter  orchestra  maintains  the  superiority  in  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


238 


marked  and  especial  manner;  sweet,  innocent  melodies  bring 
back  to  us  in  the  most  enchanting  manner  the  joys  of  child- 
hood — its  pretty  sports,  and  wiles  seem  to  rise  before  our 
vision,  and  we  feel  ourselves  wholly  wrapped  in  the  bright  dreams 
of  the  past;  but  the  tones  of  the  great  orchestra  remind  us 
sorrowfully  of  the  reality,  and  of  the  struggles  of  an  earthly 
life  scarcely  yet  begun.  This  subject,  although  gaiety  is 
the  prominent  characteristic,  yet  speaks  to  us  with  a peculiar 
purity  and  tenderness  of  sentiment;  and  of  a surety  only  a 
soul  as  pure  and  loving  as  that  of  our  Spohr  could  so  depict 
in  tones  the  tenderness  of  the  world  of  childhood. 

The  second  subject:  “The  victory  of  the  passions,”  begins 
with  a very  beautiful  soft  duet  between  hautboy  and  clarinet 
(depicting  the  first  awakening  of  love),  then  soon  the  two 
orchestras  mingle,  as  it  were,  wildly  and  stormily,  a true  pic- 
ture of  the  human  heart  in  the  contests  of  this  life;  now  here 
now  there,  the  small  orchestra  is  carried  away  with  it,  but 
even  then  it  does  not  wholly  cease  to  intervene  as  the  good 
genius  with  moving  and  at  times  warning  tones  of  tenderness. 
This  subject,  which  is  very  rich  in  ideas  and  harmonies,  ap- 
peared most  to  carry  away  the  mass  of  the  public,  but  the 
deepest  impression  made  upon  every  sensitive  heart  was  that 
made  by  the  third  theme:  “Eventual  victory  of  the  divine 
principle.”  In  this,  the  warning  voice  of  the  small  orchestra 
becomes  continually  more  impressive,  the  earthly  passions  for 
the  most  part  become  gradually  subdued,  one  almost  seems 
to  feel  how  their  force  is  broken,  and  then  again  at  frequent 
intervals  they  seem  to  rally,  until  the  solemn  moment,  in 
which  after  a general  pause  both  orchestras  at  length,  in 
solemn  unison  of  accords  announce  the  victory  achieved  by  the 
good  genius  in  all  its  power.  From  that  point  nothing  but 
pious,  pleasing  sounds,  as  though  from  the  realms  of  bliss,  are 
heard,  now  alternately  and  now  from  both  orchestras  in  unison, 
leading  as  it  were  the  strangely-moved  feelings  of  the  auditory 
to  the  soft  consolatory  finale.” 

Notices  of  a similar  character  — sometimes  estimating 


Digitized  by  foozle 


239 


the  work  from  a purely  human,  at  others  from  an  artistic 
point  of  view  were  received  from  all  sides  after  the  appearance  of 
the  symphony,  published  as  Op.  121,  by  Schuberth  of  Hamburgh; 
and  then  it  soon  became  extensively  circulated  in  the  larger 
towns  of  Germany  and  England.  This  sufficed  to  afford  Spohr 
the  personal  satisfaction,  that  in  whichever  way  his  intentions 
were  considered,  they  were  upon  the  whole  rightly  understood 
and  estimated. 

In  November  of  the  same  year  the  Cassel  musical  world 
was  thrown  into  a state  of  joyful  excitement  by  the  arrival  of 
Lisst,  who  had  gained  the  most  enthusiastic  applause  in  two 
concerts,  which  he  gave  in  the  theatre.  Previous  to  his  ap- 
pearance in  public,  the  more  restricted  circle  of  the  lovers 
of  music,  had  been  greatly  gratified  by  hearing  him  execute 
Spohr’s  quintet  for  the  pianoforte  at  a music  party  given  by 
Spohr  for  his  entertainment,  at  which  he  played  also  several 
of  his  own  compositions  in  an  insurpassibly  masterly  style. 
Spohr  took  the  liveliest  interest  in  the  performances  of  his 
colleague  in  art,  but  he  paid  him  the  tribute  of  his  highest 
admiration  for  his  wonderful  playing  at  sight ; and  in  after  years, 
as  a proof  of  Lisst s eminent  talent  in  this  respect  also,  he 
would  cheerfully  relate,  how  at  a private  soiree  at  Mrs.  von 
der  Malsburg’s,  accompanied  by  Spohr  on  the  violin,  Lisst 
played  his  “Reisesonata”  and  his  only  just  then  published 
fantasia  from  the  “Alchymist,”  which  was  therefore  wholly 
unknown  to  Lisst , but  which  to  the  great  astonishment  of 
all  the  auditory  he  played  at  sight  with  the  most  perfect 
finish. 

On  the  5th.  December  of  this  year  the  fiftieth  anniversary 
of  the  death  of  Mozart  was  everywhere  solemnized  by  the 
lovers  of  music;  but  as  no  public  festival  could  be  held  in 
Cassel,  Spohr  got  up  a private  performance  of  the  society  of 
St.  Cecilia  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor,  which  was  of  a most 
solemn  and  impressive  character.  In  the  centre  of  the  saloon 
the  bust  of  Mozart,  crowned  with  a laurel  wreath,  surmounted 
an  altar  hung  with  black  drapery;  on  one  side  of  the  altar 


Digitized  by  Google 


was  assembled  the  numerous  auditory,  and  on  the  other  the 
singers  in  deep  mourning.  The  “Ave  verum"  of  Mozart  was  first 
sung;  then  a short  oration  in  menmiam  followed,  and  the 
conclusion  was  formed  by  the  swan-song  of  the  departed  master, 
his  immortal  requiem. 

In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1842,  Spohr  composed  six 
four  part-songs,  for  soprano,  alto,  tenor  and  bass  (Op.  120, 
published  by  Appel  in  Cassel),  then  his  second  trio  for  piano- 
forte, violin  and  violincello , which  in  the  course  of  the  year 
was  followed  by  a third.  These  were  published  by  J.  Schuberth 
as  Op.  123  and  124. 

As  during  the  winter  Spohr  had  felt  returning  symptoms 
of  his  former  liver-complaint,  he  availed  himself  this  time  of 
the  summer  vacation  to  go  to  Carlsbad,  to  drink  the  waters; 
but  on  the  journey  thither,  at  the  pressing  invitation  of  Mr. 
von  Holleben,  an  acquaintance  of  his  youth,  and  now,  grand- 
master of  the  hunt  at  Rudolstadt,  he  paid  him  a visit.  In 
the  amiable  family  circle  of  his  early  friend  the  hours  passed 
quickly  and  pleasantly  in  the  retrospect  of  their  youthful  as-' 
sociations,  and  in  the  interchange  of  narratives  and  incidents 
of  their  later  life ; but  amid  all  these,  music  was  not  wanting ; 
and  to  hear  it  each  time,  an  increased  number  of  the  lovers 
of  music  were  invited.  At  these  parties  Spohr  willingly  played 
several  of  his  newest  compositions,  and  more  especially  afforded 
universal  pleasure  with  the  two  trios,  in  which  his  wife  took 
the  pianoforte  part.  Upon  these  occasions  he  had  more 
especially  an  enthusiastic  auditress  in  the  Princess  von  Biicke- 
burg,  who  then  resided  in  Rudolstadt,  and  who  was  very  desirous 
of  giving  a fete  at  her  own  house  in  honour  Spohr,  had  not 
Mrs.  von  Holleben,  as  she  afterwards  related  with  much  triumph, 
following  the  example  of  the  mayor  of  Norwich  (whose  comical 
proceeding  towards  the  bishop  of  that  place  Spohr  had  previously 
narrated  with  much  humour),  declined  in  the  name  of  her 
guests,  although  without  previously  enquiring  of  them,  every 
invitation  that  they  received. 

During  the  succeeding  month’s  stay  in  Carlsbad,  Spohr 


Digitized  by  foozle 


241 


followed  up  most  conscientiously  the  prescribed  use  of  the 
baths  and  waters,  and,  besides  the  enjoined  morning  walks 
of  several  hours’  duration,  he  after  dinner  made  more  distant 
excursions  into  the  beautiful  and  by  him  already  previously  so 
much  admired  environs.  Between  whiles,  however,  he  man- 
aged to  devote  many  hours  to  the  study  and  practice  of 
his  noble  art,  playing  assiduously  with  his  wife,  and  charming 
the  circle  of  his  more  immediate  acquaintance  with  his  play. 
He  was  forbidden,  while  taking  the  waters,  to  indulge  even 
in  a slight  degree  his  constant  impulse  to  the  composition  of 
something  new;  nevertheless  during  this  time  he  composed 
a song:  “Tears,”  by  Chamisso , which  afterwards  appeared 
in  the  “Album  of  Song”  of  Rudolf  Hirsch  (published  by 
Rosenberg  of  Leipzic). 

On  his  return  to  Cassel,  Spohr  was  painfully  moved  by 
the  intelligence  of  the  approaching  departure  of  his  friend 
Hauptmann , who  had  accepted  the  proffered  appointment  of 
Cantor  at  the  Thomas  School  in  Leipzic.  However  heartily 
he  might  have  rejoiced  to  see  Hauptmann  exchange  his  place 
in  the  court  orchestra  of  Cassel  for  one  so  much  more  befitting 
and  worthy  of  him,  yet  for  the  moment  the  sentiment  of 
sori^>w  was  the  prominent  feeling,  he  that  would  thenceforth 
be  bereft  of  the  society  and  intercourse  of  a man,  who  through 
a period  of  twenty  years  had  stood  so  near  to  him  both  as 
friend  and  as  colleague  in  art.  As  Hauptmann  was  an  active  and 
highly  esteemed  member  of  the  St.  Cecilia  society,  upon  Spohr’s, 
proposition,  a farewell  festival  in  his  honour  was  given,  at 
which  the  musical  part  of  the  entertainment  consisted  chiefly 
of  Hauptmann's  compositions.  But  as  Spohr  was  desirous  of 
contributing  at  least  one  musical  piece  having  especial  reference 
to  the  occasion,  he  made  choice  of  the  pretty  cantata  com- 
posed by  him  for  the  “Golden  Wedding”  of  his  parents, 
which,  with  altogether  new  and  appropriate  words,  inspired  all 
hearers  with  the  more  interest  as  Spohr  took  upon  himself 
the  violin  obligato  part  that  formed  the  accompaniment  to  the 
pianoforte. 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  II.  10 


Digitized  by  foozle 


242 


Towards  the  end  of  the  year  Spohr  wrote  a “concert 
overture  in  the  serious  style”  (Op.  121,  at  Siegel's,  in  Leipzic), 
which  was  performed  at  the  first  of  the  Casseler  subscription 
concerts,  and  shortly  afterwards  at  the  Gewandhaus  concert 
in  Leipzic,  and  at  both  places  produced  the  earnest  and 
grandiose  effect  which  the  composer  had  in  view.  He  next,  at 
the  repeated  solicitations  of  publisher  and  friends,  tried  his 
hand  at  a species  of  composition  which  he  had  never  till  then 
tried,  a sonata  for  the  pianoforte  alone , which  after  having 
accomplished  to  his  satisfaction,  he  resolved  to  dedicate  to  his 
friend  Mendelssohn.  The  latter  having  been  made  acquainted 
with  it,  wrote  to  him  immediately  and  accompanied  the  ex- 
pression of  his  thanks  “for  the  high  and  distinguishing  honour” 
with  the  following  words:  “If  I could  but  express  to  you,  how 
deeply  I feel  what  it  is  to  be  thus  able  to  call  one  of  your 
works  one’s  own  particular  property,  and  how  my  heart  joys 
not  alone  in  the  distinction  conferred,  but  equally  in  your 
friendly  thought  of  me,  and  your  constant  desire  for  my  welfare. 
A thousand  thanks  to  you  for  it,  dear  Mr.  Kapellmeister,  and 
rest  assured  that  to  the  best  of  my  ability  I will  endeavour 
to  make  my  now  obstinate  fingers  bring  out  the  beauties  of 
the  sonata  properly.  But  that  is  again  only  a pleasure  that 
I shall  be  doing  myself,  and  I should  so  like  to  render  you  one 
in  return  for  it,”  &c.  The  “obstinate  fingers”  must  nevertheless 
have  soon  succumbed  to  the  will  of  the  master,  for  when  upon 
a subsequent  visit  to  Leipzic,  Spohr  had  the  gratification  of 
hearing  him  play  the  sonata,  it  was  everything  he  could  have 
wished,  and  he  recognised  in  such  an  execution  the  ideal 
which  when  composing  it  his  fancy  had  conceived.  Shortly 
afterwards,  when  it  was  brought  out  by  Mechetti  of  Vienna,  as 
Op.  125,  and  thereby  became  more  widely  known,  Spohr  re- 
ceived many  gratifying  notices  of  it  from  all  sides.  But  he 
was  especially  taken  by  surprise  on  the  receipt  of  a letter 
from  Hungary,  enthusiastic  in  admiration  of  the  sonata,  from 
the  to  him  wholly  unknown  director  of  the  choir,  Seyler , of 
the  Cathedral  of  Gran,  in  which  he  says  among  other  things: 


Digitized  by  CjOOQie 


243 


“Times  innumerable,  in  the  hours  when  my  duties  permit  me 
some  relaxation,  do  I charm  myself  at  the  piano  with  that 
sonata  you  dedicated  to  Mr.  Mendelssohn-Bartholdy.  Carried 
away  by  the  magic  of  its  tones  I now  take  up  the  pen,  in  behalf 
of  all  pianists  of  feeling  who  may  not  always  have  the  op- 
portunity to  be  enchanted  by  your  greater  musical  productions, 

to  render  you  the  warmest  thanks  for  this  beautiful  work 

I would  moreover  earnestly  entreat  you  to  let  me  know  whether 
we  pianists  may  encourage  the  hope  of  having  such  another 
composition,  with  which  with  two  hands  alone,  we  may  dis- 
course with  the  spirit  of  the  world-famed  German  hero  of 
musical  science?”  &c.  Although  this  and  many  other  similar 
testimonies  might  have  fully  removed  Spohr's  former  doubts 
as  to  whether  he  could  contribute  anything  sufficiently  satis- 
factory as  a composer  for  the  pianoforte,  yet  as  may  be  readily 
imagined  it  was  more  in  his  interest  to  give  his  sole  attention 
to  the  violin  as  concerted  with  pianoforte  music;  and  his  next 
works  were  six  duets  for  pianoforte  and  violin  (Op.  127), 
but  which  he  could  not  finish  and  send  in  to  his  publisher 
Julius  Schuberth  of  Hamburgh,  who  awaited  them  with  much 
impatience,  till  after  the  lapse  of  several  months,  as  just  at 
that  time  he  »was  more  than  usually  occupied  in  perfecting  his 
orchestra  in  the  study  of  several  larger  works.  He  first  of 
all  wished  to  give  Bach's  “Passion”  on  the  coming  Good 
Friday,  and  although,  with  the  same  intention  he  had  previously 
rehearsed  it  several  times  with  all  the  musical  strength  he  could 
enlist  in  Cassel , yet  years  had  since  then  elapsed ; and  it  cost 
him  a very  great  exertion  of  his  patience  and  perseverance 
to  bring  his  orchestra  and  singers  up  to  such  a pitch  of  excel- 
lence as  to  ensure  the  public  performance  of  that  extremely 
difficult  music  in  a creditable  and  worthy  manner. 

After  Spohr  had  toiled  for  long  months  in  practising  the 
choruses  and  the  long-wished-for  day  of  performance  was 
drawing  nearer  and  nearer,  the  required  permission  of  the 
Prince  was  suddenly  refused,  without  any  reason  being  assigned 
for  it;  and  it  was  not  until  a second  application  had  been  sent 

16* 


Digitized  by  Google 


244 


in,  accompanied  (to  meet  all  eventualities)  by  a certificate  of 
the  clergyman,  that  he  considered  “the  music  selected  for  per- 
formance perfectly  fitted  for  the  church  and  for  the  day,”  that 
the  desired  permission  was  granted;  and  that  to  the  great 
satisfaction  of  Spohr  and  every  lover  of  music  in  Cassel,  it 
could  be  performed  on  the  day  appointed.  But  these  obstacles 
repeatedly  thrown  in  the  way  of  its  production  were  very 
nearly  the  cause  of  Spohr" s total  departure  from  Cassel,  for 
at  that  very  time  he  again  received  from  Prague  a very  ad- 
vantageous offer  of  appointment  there,  respecting  which  he 
wrote  as  follows  to  his  friend  Hauptmann : “I  am  so  weary  of 
all  the  vexations  I meet  with  here  that  even  at  my  time  of 
life  I could  almost  make  up  my  mind  to  leave  this  place,  were 
not  my  wife  so  much  attached  to  her  family,  and  that  she 
would  be  unhappy  away  from  her  friends.  The  opportunity 
now  presents  itself  in  an  offer  from  the  states  of  Bohemia  of 
the  post  of  director  of  the  Prague  conservatory  of  music  vacant 
by  the  death  of  Dionys  Weber , as  an  indemnifaction  for  the 
salary  I should  throw  up  here.  Such  a field  for  exertion  and 
a residence  in  musical  Prague  would  suit  me  well.  But  under 
the  circumstances  adverted  to  above  I must  of  course  decline 
it.  . . In  Hauptmann's  very  explicit  reply  to  this  he 
says  among  other  things:  “By  Spohr" s leaving  under  the  pres- 
sure of  such  existing  circumstances,  Cassel  will  become  a 
desert  as  regards  music,”  but  he  nevertheless  advises  him  to 
leave  it  without  hesitation,  and  “will  not  yet  relinquish  the 
thought  to  see  him  move  away  from  good,  beautiful  but  op- 
pressed  Cassel,  to  majestic  Prague.” 

But  as  Spohr  in  the  meanwhile  had  come  to  a decision, 
and  of  his  own  impulse  allowed  his  kindly  consideration  for 
his  wife  and  her  parents  to  prevail  with  him,  their  daily  inter- 
course having  become  with  him  also  a pleasurable  habit,  he 
wrote  back  in  his  reply  the  following  few  but  characteristic 
words : “The  interest  and  sympathy,  which  breathes  throughout 
your  kind  letter  was  most  gratifying  to  me  also  in  regard  to 
the  Prague  business.  But  I had  already  made  up  my  mind 


Digitized  by  Google 


245 


in  the  interim,  and  I am  glad  that  my  answer  declining  the 
offer  had  been  sent  to  Prague,  before  my  father-in-law  knew 
anything  about  it,  or  with  tears  in  his  eyes  could  have  to 
thank  me  for  my  decision.  ...”  — In  this  manner  Spohr  re- 
mained in  Cassel,  to  which  he  had  become  attached  as  to  a 
second  home,  and  he  continued  to  discharge  his  duties  with 
his  customary  zeal. 

He  now  again  gave  his  attention  to  the  study  of  a dif- 
ficult work : “The  flying  Dutchman”  of  Richard  Wagner , which 
Spohr  proposed  to  himself  to  bring  out  as  a festival  opera  for 
Whitmondav,  having  heard  much  in  its  praise  from  Dresden, 
and  upon  perusal  of  the  libretto,  which  had  been  sent  to  him, 
had  found  the  subject  so  satisfactory  in  every  respect,  that  he 
pronounced  it  a little  master-piece,  and  regretted,  “not  to 
have  met  with  a similar  and  as  good  a one  to  set  to  music, 
ten  years  before.”  When  at  the  rehearsals  he  had  become  more 
closely  acquainted  with  the  opera,  he  wrote  to  Liider  respecting 
it,  and  invited  him  to  the  approaching  performance  in  Cassel : 
“This  work,  although  somewhat  approaching  the  new-romantic 
music  d la  Berlioz,  and  although  it  has  given  me  immense  work 
on  account  of  its  extreme  difficulty,  interests  me  nevertheless 
in  the  highest  degree,  for  it  is  written  apparently  with  true 
inspiration  — and  unlike  so  much  of  the  modern  opera  music, 
does  not  display  in  every  bar  the  striving  after  effect,  or 
effort  to  please.  There  is  a great  deal  of  the  fanciful  therein ; 
a noble  conception  throughout,  it  is  well  written  for  the  singer ; 
enormously  difficult  it  is  true,  and  somewhat  overcharged  in 
the  instrumentation,  but  full  of  new  effects,  and  will  assuredly, 
when  it  once  comes  to  be  performed  in  the  greater  space  of 
a theatre  be  thoroughly  clear  and  intelligible.  The  theatre 
rehearsals  begin  at  the  end  of  this  week,  and  I am  exceed- 
ingly desirous  to  see  how  the  fantastic  subject  and  the  still 
more  fantastic  music  will  come  off  en  scene.  I think  I am 
so  far  correct  in  my  judgment,  when  I consider  Wagner  as 
the  most  gifted  of  all  our  dramatic  composers  of  the  present 
time.  In  this  work  at  least  his  aspirations  are  noble,  and  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


pleases  me  at  a time  when  all  depends  upon  creating  a 
sensation,  or  in  effecting  the  merest  ear-tickling,”  &c.  Not- 
withstanding the  apparent  almost  insurmountable  difficulties, 
Spohr  succeeded  in  giving  one  performance,  which  left  nothing 
to  be  desired,  and  the  work  was  most  favourably  received  by  the 
public.  In  full  satisfaction  to  the  author  he  felt  impelled  to  write 
to  Wagner  to  make  him  acquainted  with  it;  upon  which  the 
latter  in  the  fulness  of  his  joy  replied:  uMy  very  esteemed 
sir  and  master,  I was  really  obliged  to  recover  myself  some- 
what from  the  joy  — from  the  rapture  I may  say  — which  your 
extremely  kind  letter  afforded  me,  before  I could  undertake 
to  write,  and  express  to  you  the  gratitude  of  my  heart.  . . . 
In  order  to  enable  you  to  understand  the  extraordinary  emotion 
your  intelligence  produced  in  me,  I must  first  calmly  explain 
what  were  my  expectations  in  regard  to  the  success  of  this 
opera.  From  the  unusually  great  difficulties  which  it  presented 
I could  expect  but  little  from  it,  however  good  the  musical 
and  dramatic  strength  with  which  it  might  be  put  upon  the 
stage,  unless  there  was  a man  at  their  head  who,  endowed 
with  peculiar  energetic  capacity  and  goodwill,  would  espouse 
my  interests  with  predilection  and  in  the  face  of  every  obstacle. 
That  you,  my  highly-esteemed  master,  possessed  beyond  all 
others  the  qualifications  for  so  energetic  a direction,  I well 
knew,  — but  whether  you  would  consider  my  work  sufficiently 
worthy  of  your  attention  to  take  so  decided  an  interest  in  it, 
that  was  certainly  the  very  natural  doubt  that  made  me 
despair  more  and  more,  the  nearer  the  day  of  its  announced 
performance  approached;  so  that  I confess  I had  not  the  courage 
to  go  to  Cassel,  to  become  personally  a witness  to  my  shame 
and  to  the  realisation  of  all  my  fears.  But  I now  see  indeed 
that  a lucky  star  has  risen  over  me,  since  I have  gained  the 
sympathy  of  a man  from  whom  an  indulgent  notice  only  would 
have  been  sufficient  fame  for  me:  — but  to  see  him  take  the 
most  decisive  and  crowning  measures  in  my  behalf,  is  a piece  of 
good  fortune  which  assuredly  distinguishes  me  above  many,  and 
which  really  for  the  first  time  fills  me  with  a sentiment  of 


Digitized  by  Google 


— 247 


pride,  such  as  hitherto  no  applause  of  the  public  could  have 
awakened  in  me”  &c.  With  equal  gratitude  and  kindliness 
Wagner  acknowledged  the  correctness  of  the  omissions  made 
by  Spohr  in  the  opera,  in  the  which  he  “recognised  but  further 
proof  of  the  true  interest  he  had  evinced  for  him,”  and  this 
he  reiterated  in  all  his  subsequent  letters  with  the  warmest 
expressions  of  attachment  and  est^jn. 

With  the  commencement  of  the  theatrical  vacation,  Spohr 
made  preparations  for  the  journey  to  London,  where  he  hoped 
to  receive  satisfaction  for  the  disappointment  of  the  refusal  of 
leave  absence  in  the  previous  autumn,  to  proceed  to  Norwich 
to  conduct  the  much- talked- of  performance  of  his  oratorio, 
“The  fall  of  Babylon.”  For  months  previously  the  committee 
had  applied  to  that  effect  through  the  embassy  at  Cassel,  to 
the  Prince,  but  had  met  with  a summary  refusal,  upon  which 
Spohr  received  several  letters  from  England,  expressing  how 
much  they  felt  aggrieved  by  it,  and  lord  Aberdeen  especially, 
who  had  authorised  the  application  to  the  Prince  through  the 
medium  of  the  English  embassy.  Upon  this  the  committee 
met  in  Norwich  and  sent  a deputation  to  London  to  the  duke 
of  Cambridge,  who  expressed  himself  willing  to  write  personally 
to  the  Prince  in  the  most  pressing  terms.  But  without  avail ; 
after  a lapse  of  two  months  his  application  was  refused  also, 
and  both  he  and  the  whole  royal  family  were  not  a little  hurt 
by  it.  In  Norwich,  meanwhile,  it  was  thought  that  every  means 
had  not  yet  been  exhausted,  and  to  Spohr's  extreme  surprise 
he  suddenly  received  an  enormous  petition  signed  by  a con- 
siderable number  of  the  inhabitants  of  Norwich,  beseeching 
the  Prince  in  the  interests  of  that  city  to  allow  Spohr  to 
direct  his  oratorio  there.  Although  he  himself  had  now  little 
hope  of  a favourable  issue  to  this  prayer,  he  was  nevertheless 
greatly  moved  by  the  receipt  of  so  imposing  a document,  and 
awaited  a reply  with  the  greatest  anxiety.  This  however  did 
not  come;  but  the  Hessian  minister  for  foreign  affairs,  von 
Steuber , wrote  the  following  letter  to  the  wife  of  Mr.  von  der 
Malsburg , grand  marshall  of  the  court,  by  whom  the  petition 


Digitized  by  Google 


248 


had  been  presented:  “I  have  to  announce  to  your  Excellency 
that  I delivered  the  petition  in  question,  and  urged  personally 
all  the  circumstances  detailed  therein,  but  as  you  yourself 
feared,  there  is  no  hope  of  a successful  result”  &c.  — 

Although  Spohr  could  not  personally  share  in  the  triumph 
which  this  new  oratorio  achieved  for  him  in  England,  he 
nevertheless  received  almost  daily  detailed  epistolary  accounts 
of  the  success  of  the  fest^al,  and  at  length  also  a whole  box 
full  of  newspapers  of  every  shade  of  politics,  which  seemed 
almost  to  vie  with  each  other  in  expressions  of  admiration  of 
his  work.  Of  these,  some  few  of  the  most  conspicuous  and  cha- 
racteristic in  style  of  comment  may  here  be  cited:  “The  Times” 
says  among  other  things : “The  gem  of  the  festival  was  Spohr' s 
oratorio.  The  text  is  written  with  especial  regard  to  the 
nature  and  the  character  of  an  oratorio,  and  the  subject  which 
Spohr  has  illustrated  by  the  exercise  of  his  talent  is  especially 
favourable  to  its  exhibition.  Three  nations  are  represented: 
the  captive  Hebrews,  the  luxurious  Babylonians  and  the  Persians 
in  their  pride  of  conquest : these  furnish  materials  for  the  most 
varied  musical  treatment  by  the  composer,  of  which  he  has 
availed  himself  in  the  most  admirable  manner,  and  thoroughly 
understood  how  to  adhere  throughout  the  music  to  the  identity 
and  nationality  of  the  different  nations.  His  peculiar  genius 
for  the  invention  of  beautiful  melodies , and  his  power  to 
enrich  these  with  appropriate  harmonies  is  also  prominently 
conspicuous  in  this  splendid  work.”  After  a detailed  analysis 
of  the  separate  “numbers”  it  is  further  said:  “The  general 
opinion  of  the  oratorio  is  this:  It  is  a master  piece  of  art, 
worthy  to  rank  with  “Die  letzten  Dingen”  and  “Des  Heilands 
letzten  Stunden.”  Emphatic  as  this  praise  may  be,  it  is  ne- 
vertheless just.  Though  from  the  same  hand,  the  work  is 
nevertheless  essentially  different  from  these.  The  former  excite 
feelings  of  deep  devotion  and  Christian  piety,  in  the  latter  we 
distinguish  the  character  of  the  deity  more  in  its  majesty 
and  omnipotence;  Jehovah  displays  himself  to  us  in  acts  of 
power  by  dooming  the  ungodly  to  punishment.  The  work 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


249 


fulfils  all  the  conditions  of  a true  oratorio,  and  its  per- 
formance was  a triumph  of  English  art.  One  thing  only  was 
deeply  and  generally  deplored,  that  Spohr  was  prevented  from 
being  present  at  this  triumph.”  In  the  Morning  Chronicle,  after 
similar  enthusiastic  expressions  of  opinion,  follows : “In  a word, 
the  music  is  characterised  by  the  whole  power  and  peculiarity  of 
Spohr’s  genins,  and  we  may  boldly  assert  that  it  is  the  grandest 
work  written  since  the  days  of  Handel .”  — The  immense 
crowd  that  pressed  forward  to  the  hall  to  witness  the  per- 
formance is  adverted  to  by  all  the  papers,  and  the  Morning 
Herald  especially,  speaks  of  it  thus:  “Although  to  hear  Spohr’s 
oratorio  an  unusually  numerous  auditory  was  to  be  expected, 
yet  no  one  could  have  formed  an  idea  of  what  actually  oc- 
curred. From  an  early  hour  in  the  morning  carriages  arrived 
in. numbers,  filled  with  the  rank  and  beauty  of  the  county. 
. . . The  whole  interior  of  the  building  was  immediately 
filled ; where  a resting-place  could  be  found  for  one  foot  only, 
fool-hardy  individuals  were  to  be  seen  located  in  the  most 
dangerous  situations,  and  every  one  seemed  determined  to 
endure  the  greatest  inconvenience  rather  than  forego  the 
pleasure  of  hearing  Spohr’s  oratorio.  Many  persons  clambered 
up  to  the  roof,  and  from  thence  in  at  the  window,  but  numbers 
were  compelled  to  remain  outside,  and  content  themselves  with 
looking  down  from  their  dizzy  height  upon  the  crowds  below. 
This  is  no  exaggeration,  but  strictly  true;  and'  that  such  a 
degree  of  interest  should  have  been  evinced  for  a new  musical 
work*  is  certainly  an  event  that  stands  alone  in  the  history 
of  music,”  &c.  While  Spohr  found  at  home  a cheering  dis- 
traction in  these  gratifying  accounts,  his  admirers  and  frienads 
in  England  were  considering  how  to  make  him  some  compen- 
sation for  his  loss,  and  before  the  close  of  the  year  he  received 
an  invitation  to  London  during  his  next  vacation,  to  conduct 
his  oratorio. 

Upon  Spohr’s  arrival  in  London  in  June  1843,  Professor 
Taylor , who  had  conducted  his  oratorio  at  Norwich,  in  his 
stead,  and  who  had  discharged  that  difficult  task  most  credit- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


250 


ably,  had  so  far  made  all  the  preliminary  preparations  that 
after  a few  rehearsals,  its  performance  could  take  place  at 
the  Hanover  Square  Rooms  to  his  full  satisfaction.  The  public 
also  gave  vent  to  their  enthusiasm,  with  the  most  reiterated 
and  demonstrative  applause,  and  at  the  conclusion  greeted 
him  with  three  cheers.  Nevertheless  all  those  who  had  been 
present  at  the  festival  in  the  fine  St.  Andrew’s  Hall  at  Norwich, 
were  not  by  any  means  satisfied  that  Spohr  had  not  been 
permitted  to  hear  his  work  under  equally  favourable  circum- 
stances, in  all  its  grandeur,  and  he  received  the  invitation  to 
direct  a second  grander  performance,  which  the  Sacred  Har- 
monic Society  were  desirous  of  giving  with  their  chorus  of  five 
hundred  voices  in  the  large  concert-room  of  Exeter  Hall. 
But  as  he  had  proposed  to  himself  to  devote  the  yet  remaining 
week’s  leave  of  absence  to  a journey  to  Wales,  of  the  scenery 
of  which  he  had  heard  so  tfiuch  spoken  in  praise,  and  as 
the  time  moreover  appeared  to  him  much  too  short  for  a 
carefiil  study  of  his  oratorio,  he  returned  an  answer  declining 
the  invitation.  Upon  subsequent  pressing  solicitation,  never- 
theless, and  repeated  conferences,  he  at  length  yielded,  and  it 
was  then  agreed  that  the  requisite  rehearsals  should  be  made 
during  Spohr' s absence,  so  that  he  would  have  nothing  more 
to  do  than  to  take  upon  himself  the  direction  of  the  perfor- 
mance, and  meanwhile  he  could  proceed  undisturbed  upon  his 
projected  journey.  Highly  necessary  to  him,  also,  was  such  a 
refreshing  change  of  scene  after  the  almost  overwhelming 
fatigues  of  the  musical  entertainments  and  dinner-parties  of 
the  preceding  weeks,  at  the  greater  part  of  which  he  himself 
took  an  active  share  in  the  performances.  At  the  last  concert 
of  the  Philharmonic  Society,  in  which  he  directed  the  perform- 
ance of  several  of  his  compositions:  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone,” 
the  overture  to  the  “Alchymist,”  and  the  flower  duet  from 
‘‘Jessonda,”  but  first  himself  executed  his  concertino  in  E major 
upon  the  violin,  he  was,  as  recorded  by  the  “Spectator”  — 
“welcomed  like  a Prince,  the  whole  company  rising  spon- 
taneously from  their  seats  to  salute  him”  ....  and  when  he 


Digitized  by  Google 


251 


had  concluded  his  artistic  and  indescribably  charming  play,  the 
irrepressible  outbursts  of  delight  shewed  how  completely  he 
had  touched  the  heart-strings  of  his  .auditory.  At  the  end  of 
the  concert  the  directors  conveyed  to  him  moreover  the  wishes 
of  the  queen,  that  he  would  play  once  more  in  an  extra-concert 
to  be  given  for  that  purpose.  As  he  could  not  well  refuse  this, 
the  concert  took  place  a week  afterwards,  and  comprised  in 
its  compendious  programme  among  other  things  a symphony 
of  Mozart,  the  ninth  symphony  of  Beethoven,  with  the  choruses, 
and  three  of  Spohr's  compositions:  concertino  in  A major,  the 
overture  to  “Macbeth,”  and  Tristan’s  air  in  “Jessonda,”  in 
which  Staudigl  was  twice  encored. 

Respecting  the  further  circumstances  of  the  concert  a 
letter  written  home  contains  the  following:  “The  extra-concert 
of  yesterday  was  a very  brilliant  success,  and  afforded  us  high 
enjoyment.  The  appearance  there  of  the  Queen  was  an  event 
of  which  all  the  newspapers  and  everybody  also  spoke  before- 
hand with  much  interest;  as  since  her  coronation  she  had 
never  yet  appeared  at  one.  When  she  entered  the  room, 
dressed  in  a plain  black  robe,  but  wearing  a good  many 
diamonds,  the  public  clapped  their  hands  and  rose  from  their 
seats,  upon  which  the  soli  and  chorus  sang  “God  save  the 
Queen”  with  great  effect.  During  the  entre-acte,  the  Queen 
sent  for  Spohr  to  the  adjoining  apartment,  where  she  dis- 
coursed with  him  for  some  time  in  a very  flattering  manner, 
and  advised  him  during  his  further  journey  in  England  to 
travel  incognito,  otherwise  in  every  town  he  would  be  annoyed 
and  intruded  upon  in  the  same  manner  as  in  London.  Prince 
Albert  and  the  King  of  the  Belgians  entered  also  into  conver- 
sation with  him,  and  he  was  much  edified  by  their  remarks. 
Several  persons  whom  we  knew,  who  sat  near  the  Queen,  laid 
great  stress  upon  the  circumstance  that  upon  Spohr' s appearance 
in  the  orchestra,  she  and  her  husband  bowed  very  profoundly, 
and  clapped  their  hands  very  warmly,”  &c.  At  further  music 
parties  he  experienced  great  pleasure  in  hearing  his  trios, 
quartets,  airs  and  duets  from  his  operas,  and  songs,  executed 


Digitized  by 


Google 


252 


with  the  most  perfect  finish,  and  was  always  much  delighted 
with  the  wonderfully  pure  execution  of  the  favorite  English 
glees.  Upon  these  occasions  he  was  not  at  all  disturbed  by 
the  enormous  quantity  of  musical  pieces  which  were  brought 
forward,  for  with  his  inexhaustible  nerve  and  power  of  endur- 
ance he  was  fortunately  enabled  to  compete  with  the  English. 

As  a curiosity  of  the  kind  the  following  programme  may 
be  adduced,  of  a musical  festival  got  up  by  Mr.  Alsagery  then 
co-editor  of  the  Times,  in  honour  of  Spohr: 

Queen  Square  Select  Society. 

Musical  Festival  In  Honour  of  the  arrival 
of  Spohr  In  ^London* 

Sunday  July  2,  1843. 

Act.  1. 

Double  Quartet  No.  1 

Quintet-Pianoforte,  Flute,  Clarinet,  Horn  and  Bassoon 

Double  Quartet  No.  2 

Nonetto 

Dejeuner  k la  fourchette. 


Act.  2. 

Quintet 

Ottetto 

Double  Quartet  No.  3 

To  commence  at  2 o'clock  — Dejeuneur  at  5 — 

Second  act  to  commence  at  7. 

This  festival,  which  was  in  every  respect  successful,  and 
got  up  with  princely  magnificence,  must  have  been  the  more 
gratifying  to  Spohr , when  he  saw  how  the  company,  consisting 
of  fifty  persons,  listened  until  late  in  the  evening  with  admirable 
perseverance  and  wrapped  attention  to  his  tones,  without  evin- 
cing the  least  sign  of  weariness.  When  gratified  beyond  measure 
by  a festive  testimonial,  so  unusual,  he  felt  called  upon  to 
express  his  very  great  thanks  to  Mr.  Alsager , he  found  to  his 
great  surprise  on  the  following  day  among  the  mass  of  letters 
which  he  constantly  received,  one  also  from  him  expressing 
his  heartfelt  thanks,  which  concluded  as  follows:  “May  you 


Spohr. 

Spohr. 

Spohr. 

Spohr. 


Spohr. 

Spohr. 

Spohr. 


Digitized  by  Google 


253 


enjoy  all  the  happiness  that  can  result  from  the  consciousness 
that  you  are  a benefactor  to  the  world  and  communicate 
happiness  to  others  in  a circle  still  increasing  and  never 
ending.” 

Upon  their  pleasure  trip  on  the  1 2th  July  Spohr  and  his 
wife  were  accompanied  by  Professor  Taylory  in  whom  they 
found  both  a well-informed  and  amiable  guide  and  companion. 
They  visited  Winchester,  Portsmouth,  Southampton,  Bath, 
Bristol  and  Wales.  With  the  natural  beauties  of  the  latter 
Spohr  was  so  much  charmed  that  in  many  parts  he  considered 
them  to  surpass  Switzerland,  and  all  that  he  had  ever  seen. 
On  the  return  journey  to  London,  he  was  loud  in  his  expres- 
sions of  admiration  of  the  beauties  of  Cheltenham,  and  of 
the  fine  university  of  Oxford.  Though  in  accordance  with  the 
advice  of  the  Queen  he  had  thought  to  make  this  little  journey 
incognito,  nevertheless  his  arrival  soon  became  known  in 
each  town,  and  the  composer  of  uDie  letzten  Dinge,”  the  piano- 
forte arrangement  of  which  he  found  in  almost  every  house, 
was  received  by  every  one  after  his  own  manner,  with  the 
highest  honours,  upon  which  occasions  many  incidents  occurred 
that  either  greatly  amused  or  moved  him.  Meanwhile,  in 
London,  every  possible  exertion  had  been  made,  and  upon  his 
return,  Spohr  found  that  his  oratorio  had  been  studied  with 
such  faultless  precision,  that  as  he  wrote  word  in  a letter  home 
“at  the  grand  rehearsal  he  was  really  much  moved  both  with 
its  excellent  execution,  and  the  conviction  that  such  a number 
of  persons  totally  stranger  to  him,  and  for  the  most  part 
engaged  in  business  (who  in  London  have  indeed  but  little 
leisure  time)  should  have  devoted  their  evenings  to  a late  hour, 
during  his  absence  of  eight  days,  to  the  study  of  this  dif- 
ficult work,  from  pure  love  of  it,  and  to  afford  him  an  agreeable 
surprise.” 

The  performance  itself  is  then  thus  described:  “Imagine  a 
gigantic  hall  with  places  for  3000  persons,  crammed  full,  head 
above  head ; in  a balcony  «gpart , as  the  bill  expresses  it 


Digitized  by 


Google 


254 


‘Madame  Spohr  and  Friends’  looting  down  upon  the  scene. 
Opposite  the  magnificent  and  stupendous  organ  and  on  all  sides 
around  it,  an  orchestra  and  choir  of  singers  numbering  five 
hundred  persons,  grouped  in  the  most  charming  manner ; in  that 
orchestra  Spohr  enters,  and  at  the  same  moment  the  whole  public 
and  orchestra  rise  from  their  seats,  all  waving  handkerchiefs 
and  hats  and  shouting  long  and  loudly  altogether  “Bravo,  Hurrah!” 
But  no  sooner  did  Spohr  lift  his  baton  than  all  sat  down, 
and  a deep  silence  of  anxious  attention  reigned.  Then  resounded 
through  the  spacious  hall  the  first  moving  accords  of  the  over- 
ture, like  music  from  another  sphere.  The  whole  performance 
proceeded  now  grandly  and  as  though  with  one  impulsive 
inspiration  in  all.  A solemn  thrilling  emotion  pervaded  us, 
and  at  many  powerful  passages,  such  as  “Er  regiert  auf  ewig 
(he  rules  for  ever)  Hallelujah!  ” — “Du  nur  allein  bist  Gott”  Ac. 
(Thou,  and  Thou  only  art  God),  — then  it  was  as  though 
all  mankind  had  assembled  to  praise  God  with  the  purest 
harmony.  But  doubly  wonderful  at  such  outbursts  of  powerful 
grandeur  is  the  ever-recurring  entry  at  the  right  moment  of 
the  tenderest  shades  of  expression.  . . . Three  airs  and  the 
grand  chorus  of  the  Persians  were  encored  with  vehement 
acclamation.  At  the  conclusion  the  people,  at  a loss  to  find 
a new  and  further  way  of  expressing  their  rapture,  demon- 
strated it  more  prominently  by  mounting  at  once  upon  the 
benches.  When  at  length  Spohr  had  made  his  way  through 
the  mass  of  those  who  pressed  forward  to  shake  hands  with 
and  congratulate  him  as  he  passed  on  to  the  door  of  the  hall, 
I observed  with  astonishment  that  the  whole  company  remained 
behind,  and  whispered  to  each  other,  which  induced  me  to 
think  something  important  was  still  to  take  place;  when  after 
a time  the  noise  broke  out  anew  and  Spohr  was  again  vehe- 
mently called  for.  Upon  this  two  gentlemen  led  him  back 
once  more,  and  having  informed  him  that  the  public  much 
wished  him  to  address  a few  words  to  them,  he  at  length 
determined  to  do  so,  and  made^a  short  speech  in  German, 
which  although  they  did  not  understand,  was  very  gratefully 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


255 


received  by  the  assembly.  Hereupon  the  President  stepped 
forward,  and  having  delivered  a long  address  to  Spohr  in 
English,  which  was  repeatedly  interrupted  by  applause  and 
cries  of  “Hear  I hear  I”  he  presented  to  him  in  the  name  of  the 
company  a large  silver  salver  with  a beautifully  engraved  in- 
scription commemorative  of  the  evening  festival,”  &c.  — This 
solemn  concluding  scene  crowned  all  that  Spohr  had  yet  ex- 
perienced, and  the  sad  moment  of  parting  from  hospitable 
England  now  approached.  Spohr  himself  was  painfully  moved 
by  it,  although  the  earnest  solicitations  of  every  kind  which 
poured  in  upon  him,  gave  him  little  time  for  calm  reflection. 
Daily  from  various  quarters  did  he  receive  the  blank  sheets 
of  albums  with  the  request  for  some  souvenir  from  his  own 
hand , many  of  which  yet  awaited  their  execution  and  kept 
him  occupied  at  his  writing-table  up  to  the  time  of  his  de- 
parture. After  he  had  satisfied  these  last  requests  even,  and 
at  length  embarked  on  board  the  steamer,  he  good  humouredly 
remarked  to  the  crowd  of  friends  and  admirers  who  had  col- 
lected to  bid  him  farewell:  “There  is  now  indeed  scarcely  a 
lover  of  music  in  England  who  has  not  my  autograph,”  — 
the  steamer  was  hailed  from  the  shore,  and  on  looking  in  that 
direction  he  saw  a boat  rowing  fast  towards  them,  and  shortly, 
several  gentlemen  came  on  board,  bearing  numerous  albums 
that  had  arrived  too  late,  with  the  entreaty  that  Spohr  would 
write  something  in  each  during  the  journey  down  to  Gravesend, 
whither  they  would  accompany  him  with  that  view!  Actually 
also,  did  Spohr  comply,  and  writing,  he  left  the  shores  of 
England,  and  so  made  the  parting  moments  somewhat  less 
painful  to  him! 


Early  in  the  month  of  October  1843,  a meeting  of  the 
Philological  Society  was  to  take  place  in  Cassel,  and  the 
generally  expressed  wish  to  honour  the  same  with  some 
musical  performances  was  the  more  natural,  from  the  means 


Digitized  by 


Google 


256 


necessary  thereto  being  more  especially  at  command  there. 
Upon  Spohr’s  recommendation  the  president  of  the  society  and 
Gymnasial-Director  Weber  proposed  the  performance  of  “An- 
tigone” at  the  theatre,  with  Mendelssohn's  choruses;  and 
Spohr  expressed  himself  ready  to  comply  with  the  wishes  of 
the  magistracy  to  give  a performance  of  his  oratorio:  “Der 
Fall  Babylons”  in  the  church,  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor  of 
the  city.  As,  however,  the  permission  of  the  Prince  could  not 
be  obtained  for  both,  the  foreign  guests  were  obliged  to  content 
themselves  with  a private  performance  of  “Antigone”  in  the 
spacious  hall  where  they  held  their  sittings,  upon  which  oc- 
casion Councillor  Niemeyer  read  the  tragedy,  and  the  choruses 
were  sung  with  accompaniment  of  two  pianofortes  by  the  singers 
of  the  men’s  choral  society  under  Spohr's  direction.  In  this 
manner  all  went  off  very  effectingly,  and  the  strangers  were 
so  well  content  that  they  not  only  expressed  their  most  heart- 
felt thanks  to  Spohr  for  his  exertions,  but  at  their  next  sitting, 
(at  which  he  assisted  with  much  interest)  unanimously  voted 
also  a letter  of  thanks  to  Mendelssohn.  Spohr  himself  was 
also  so  much  pleased  with  the  spirited  and  truly  original 
music  “that  he  now  exceedingly  desired  to  hear  it  also  with 
full  orchestral  treatment.  But  as  under  the  present  overruling 
circumstances  in  Cassel  this  was  not  to  be  achieved,  he  shortly 
afterwards  gave  a repetition  of  the  reading  of  the  tragedy 
in  the  same  manner,  for  a charitable  purpose,  but  in  a more 
spacious  building,  by  which  means  a wider  circle  of  the  lovers 
of  music  were  enabled  for  the  first  time  to  become  acquainted 
with  the  interesting  work. 

About  this  time  Spohr  began  to  turn  his  mind  seriously 
to  the  composition  of  another  opera,  which  probably  arose 
from  the  frequency  with  which  the  libretto  of  operas  were 
sent  to  him.  But  as  none  of  them  satisfied  him,  and  as 
upon  a closer  examination,  either  the  treatment  of  the  subject 
or  the  form  of  the  musical  pieces  did  not  suit  him,  he  con- 
ceived the  idea  of  writing  with  the  assistance  of  his  wife  the 
text  of  a libretto,  and  chose  for  subject  the  once  favorite  drama 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


257 


of  Kotzebue:  “The  Crusaders,”  which  seemed  to  him  parti- 
cularly adapted  to  the  object  he  had  this  time  in  view, 
namely,  an  entire  deviation  from  the  customary  form,  as  well 
as  from  the  style,  of  his  own  previous  opera  music;  in  com- 
posing the  whole  throughout  as  a musical  drama,  without 
unnecessary  repetitions  of  the  text  and  ornamentations,  and 
with  a constantly  progressing  development  in  the  treatment. 
As  soon  as  the  libretto  was  completed,  he  set  to  work  with 
great  spirit,  and  in  a short  time  completed  the  first  act,  which 
he  immediately  arranged  for  the  pianoforte,  and  had  performed 
in  his  house  by  a select  number  of  the  best  dilettanti,  in  order 
to  convince  himself  of  the  success  of  his  work,  before  he  pro- 
ceeded further  with  it.  When  he  became  satisfied  how  clearly 
and  intelligibly,  even  without  the  aid  of  scenic  representations, 
the  lifelike  expression  of  his  music  depicted  the  different 
characters  and  situations,  and  how  powerfully  both  singers  and 
auditory  were  impressed  by  it,  he  proceeded  with  confidence 
with  the  next  act,  and  finished  that  also,  all  but  the  instrument- 
ation, before  the  commencement  of  the  theatrical  vacation. 

As  object  of  his  customary  summer  journey  Spohr  had 
selected  Paris,  in  order  to  shew  his  wife  the  grandeur  of 
that  brilliant  capital,  and  to  visit  at  the  same  time  the 
international  exhibition  of  industry,  which,  as  the  first  of 
its  kind,  had  so  greatly  excited  public  attention,  that  strangers 
from  every  quarter  of  the  globe  flocked  to  it  to  behold  the 
endless  treasures  in  every  department  of  manufacturing  industry, 
and  to  admire  the  products  of  art.  With  the  daily  concourse 
of  the  visitors  it  was  however  almost  impossible  to  obtain  an 
undisturbed  and  attentive  view ; it  was  therefore  matter  of  no 
small  self-congratulation  for  Spohr  and  his  wife  to  receive 
a ticket  of  admission  procured  by  especial  favour  upon  a day 
that  had  been  set  apart  for  the  King’s  visit  to  the  exhibition, 
when  exhibitors  only  were  permitted  to  be  present.  By  this 
means  they  were  also  furnished  with  the  rare  opportunity  of 
seeing  the  venerable  Louis  Philippe,  accompanied  by  his  wife, 
his  sister  Adelaide,  and  the  then  still  very  youthful  Duke  de 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  II.  \n 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


258 


Montpensier , pass  close  before  them,  and  to  hear  distinctly  the 
King’s  remarks  upon  the  various  manufactures  displayed. 

At  a season  of  the  year  so  unfavourable  for  musical 
performances  of  any  consequence,  Spohr  could  scarcely  hope 
to  enjoy  that  gratification,  but  there,  in  a foreign  land  he 
had  the  unhoped-for  satisfaction  of  an  enjoyment  he  had  vainly 
endeavoured  to  obtain  at  home,  that  namely  of  assisting  at 
a performance  of  “Antigone”  with  Mendelssohn's  choruses, 
which  on  that  evening  had  been  given  for  the  thirty-second 
time  in  succession  at  the  Odeon  theatre  to  constantly  crowded 
houses,  and  Spohr  was  deeply  impressed  with  the  excellence 
of  the  music  and  of  the  scenic  arrangements. 

But  although  the  best  musicians  were  for  the  most  part 
absent  from  Paris,  he  nevertheless  passed  some  very  pleasant 
hours  in  the  society  of  Mr.  Habenec  (director  of  the  conser- 
vatory), Panseron , Halevy,  Auber , Berlioz , Adam , &c.  On 
the  part  of  the  conservatory  it  was  also  greatly  wished 
to  shew  him  some  mark  of  attention,  although  under  the 
circumstances  some  difficulty  was  experienced  in  doing  so, 
as  appears  from  a notice  in  a Parisian  journal,  in  the  fol- 
lowing words:  “Mais  que  faire  pour  prouver  a l’auteur  de 
‘Faust’  et  de  ‘Jessonda’  que  la  France  sait  apprecier  dignement 
ses  belles  compositions  et  leur  auteur?  Une  idee  vient  soudain 
a un  ami  de  Mr.  Habenec : ‘L’epoque  des  magnifiques  concerts 
du  Conservatoire  est  passee ! dit-il ; eh  bien ! ecrivons  partout, 
reunissons  une  partie  de  nos  artistes,  et  essayons  de  tresser 
une  petite  couronne  a Spohr , en  executant  devant  lui  un  de 
ses  plus  beaux  morceaux.’  Le  projet  est  approuve,  on  n’avait 
que  quelques  jours  pour  le  mettre  en  oeuvre.  Des  circulaires 
sont  adressees  a vingt,  trente  lieues  de  Paris.  Des  hommes 
d’un  talent  superieur,  qui  n’auraient  pas  quitte  leur  dolce  far 
niente  a prix  d’argent,  se  hatent  d’accourir,  et  la  Societe  des 
Concerts,  a l’exception  de  deux  de  ses  membres  qui  sont  main- 
tenant  en  Italic,  se  trouve  reunie  a Paris  comrae  un  seul 
homme.  La  salle  du  Conservatoire  est  ouverte,  tous  les  exe- 
cutants s’y  rendent,  et  Spohr  y est  amene  comme  spectateur 


Digitized  by  Google 


259 


unique ; c’est  pour  lui  seul  que  soixante-dix-huit  musiciens  sont 
la,  c’est  aux  pieds  de  sa  gloire  qu’ils*viennent  se  prostemer, 
et  lui  font  entendre  son  chef-d’oeuvre  symphonique:  ‘La  creation 
de  la  Musique’  (‘Weihe  der  Tone’).” 

Upon  Spohr’s  entry  into  the  room  he  was  greeted  with 
loud  applause,  and  addressed  in  a speech  by  Mr.  Habenec , who 
invited  him  to  direct  his  symphony  in  person,  as  at  the  next 
winter  concerts,  the  society  intended  to  perform  it,  and  it 
would  therefore  be  of  the  utmost  value  to  all,  to  be  initiated 
by  the  personal  direction  of  the  composer  himself  into  its 
mode  of  performance.  In  reality,  also,  many  indications  and 
repetitions  were  necessary  upon  the  occasion,  until  every  thing, 
went  satisfactorily;  but  Beethoven's  pastoral  symphony,  which 
followed,  and  had  been  frequently  played,  was  executed  with 
that  masterly  precision  for  which  that  orchestra  was  so  ce- 
lebrated. 

On  the  following  day  Spohr  set  out  on  his  return  to  Cassel, 
which  he  again  left  after  the  lapse  of  a few  weeks,  to  comply 
with  an  invitation  from  his  native  town  of  Brunswick,  where  they 
had  long  desired  to  give  a grand  musical  festival  in  his  honour, 
and  had  therefore  made  arrangements  to  have  a performance 
of  his  oratorio  the  “Fall  of  Babylon,”  at  the  end  of  September. 

On  his  way  thither  he  received  a foretaste  of  the  Bruns- 
wick festivities,  at  Seesen,  where  he  slept  the  first  night,  and 
where  he  had  passed  the  first  years  of  his  childhood;  the  in- 
habitants of  that  place  having  been  thereby  induced  to  believe 
that  it  was  really  his  birth-place.  He  was  greatly  surprised  at 
being  welcomed  immediately  upon  his  arival  here  with  a kind 
and  most  hearty  address  and  ushered  with  much  ceremony 
into  the  handsomely  decorated  grand  room  of  the  hotel,  where 
he  found  disposed  in  a wide  semicircle,  symmetrically  arranged, 
a selection  from  all  the  musical  talent  of  the  young  folks  of 
Seesen,  with  the  members  of  the  choral  society  of  that  place; 
who,  besides  singing  several  songs,  executed  a chorus  from  “Die 
letzten  Dingen”  and  a pleasing  poem  composed  especially  for 
the  occasion,  addressed  to  Spohr,  and  arranged  for  four  voices. 

17* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


260 


Brunswick  was  no  less  demonstrative  in  celebrating  the 
presence  of  its  illustribus  guest,  and  detailed  notices  of  an 
impromptu  festival  given  to  Spohr  are  furnished  by  several 
letters,  in  which  the  brilliant  external  display,  as  well  as  the 
expressive  and  appropriately  arranged  musical  entertainment, 
appealed  with  equal  force  and  charm  to  the  heart  and  mind. 
A cantata  set  to  music  by  Methfessel  for  female  voices  and  chorus, 
“Welcome  to  Spohr,”  was  first  sung,  with  a soft  accompani- 
ment of  wind  instruments  placed  out  of  sight  in  the  back- 
ground, and  executed  by  them  in  the  most  finished  manner. 
But  scarcely  had  the  guest  so  honoured  time  to  express  his 
thanks  at  the  conclusion  of  this  pretty  song,  when  quite  un- 
expectedly, and  in  striking  contrast  with  it,  a powerful  chorus  of 
male  voices  from  the  opposite  side  of  the  hall  began  a second 
“festive  song  to  Spohr  ” which  prepared  the  minds  of  all  for 
the  enjoyment  of  the  subsequent  more  exhilarating  festivities. 

On  the  following  day  Spohr  directed  the  performance  of 
his  oratorio:  “The  fall  of  Babylon,”  in  the  iEgydian  church, 
which  was  here  also  executed  with  great  spirit,  and  was  well 
received.  The  circumstance  that  its  performance  took  place 
in  the  same  church  in  which  more  than  60  years  before  he 
was  baptised  as  an  infant  greatly  increased  the  interest  of  the 
day,  and  gave  occasion  to  several  other  poetic  effusions. 

A grand  concert  of  a mixed  kind  concluded  the  festivities 
of  the  day;  the  first  part  of  which  comprised  the  overture  to 
“King  Lear”  by  Berlioz,  directed  by  Kapellmeister  Muller , 
airs  from  “Oberon”  and  “ Jessonda”  an  adagio  for  violin  by  Spohr, 
executed  by  concert-director  Muller,  and  Maurer's  concertante 
for  four  violins  (played  by  Muller,  Zimmermann,  C . Muller  jun. 
and  Jean  Bott  of  Cassel) ; the  second  part  consisted  of  Spohr's  fifth 
symphony,  C minor . Thus  ended  this  pleasing  festival,  the  heart- 
felt pleasure  at  which  was  alone  saddened  to  Spohr  by  thoughts 
of  his  beloved  father,  who,  up  to  the  few  months  preceeding  his 
death  in  Brunswick  had  passed  the  last  years  of  his  life  in 
Seesen,  but  who,  after  watching  for  years  at  a distance  the 
career  of  his  son  with  pleasurable  pride,  could  now  no  longer 


Digitized  by  foozle 


261 


be  a witness  of  the  high  esteem  and  honour  shewn  to  him  by 
his  native  town. 

At  the  end  of  the  year  Spohr  received  an  invitation  to  a 
grand  musical  festival  at  New-York  — the  first  from  that  side 
of  the  Ocean,  to  the  direction  of  which  he  had  been  unani- 
mously selected  at  a general  meeting  of  the  society  of  music 
of  that  city,  “as  the  first  of  all  living  composers  and  directors 
of  music.”  There  were  to  be  two  performances  of  sacred  and 
two  of  secular  music,  and  above  all  his  oratorio  of  the  “Fall 
of  Babylon”  — “the  fame  of  which  had  spread  from  England 
to  the  new  world,”  was  to  take  precedence.  Although  such  a 
proposal  might  have  had  great  attractions  for  Spohr,  and  have  yet 
more  incited  his  constant  love  of  travel ; and  although  in  New 
York  he  would  have  moreover  the  pleasure  of  seeing  again  his 
daughter  Emily , who  with  her  husband  and  child  had  emigrated 
there  some  years  before,  yet  he  soon  made  up  his  mind  to 
decline  it,  as  a residence  there  of  the  few  weeks  only  which 
the  duties  of  his  place  would  have  perhaps  permitted , would 
scarcely  have  compensated  for  the  fatigues  of  a long  voyage. 

On  New  Year’s  Day  1845,  Spohr' s new  opera,  “The  Crus- 
aders,” was  performed  for  the  first  time;  and  not  only  upon 
the  first  night,  but  upon  the  quickly  succeeding  further  per- 
formances , it  met  with  an  unexampled  brilliant  reception  for 
Cassel.  Spohr , who  had  looked  forward  with  particularly  anxious 
expectation  to  the  success  of  this  work,  was  much  gratified 
at  this  result,  and  wrote  to  his  friend  Hesse  as  follows: 
“That  my  opera  should  have  made  so  deep  and  lasting  an 
impression  upon  the  public,  the  lesser  number  of  which  only 
consisted  of  musically  educated  persons,  I ascribe  to  the  truthful  - 
character  of  my  music,  which  aims  only  at  representing  the 
situation  perfectly,  and  discards  all  the  flimsy  parade  of 
modern  opera-music,  such  as  florid  instrumental  soli  and 
noisy  effects.  * And  I was  furthermore  exceedingly  pleased 

* To  similar  observations  in  a letter  to  Hauptmann  he  adds : “I  could 
not  make  up  my  mind  to  write  one  unnecessary  note  for  the  sake  of 
brilliancy.” 


Digitized  by 


Google 


262 


that  the  singers,  who  did  not  find  in  their  parts  anything  of 
that  which  usually  gains  for  them  the  applause  of  the  crowd, 
evinced  nevertheless  at  every  rehearsal  a greater  interest  in  it, 
and  a zeal  to  study  such  a I never  before  observed  in  them. 
But  the  result  shews  also,  that  this  style  of  song,  which  is  so 
convenient  for  every  one,  and  affords  the  opportunity  of  displaying 
the  best  tones,  and  the  degree  of  feeling  and  expression  which 
each  is  capable  of,  is  a very  grateful  one ; for  never  were  our 
singers  so  applauded,  and  after  the  second  performance  they 
were  all  called  for  together  on  the  stage.”  The  newspapers 
having  circulated  a great  deal  in  praise  of  the  new  opera, 
and  it  having  become  more  extensively  known  by  the  piano- 
forte arrangement  which  was  shortly  afterwards  published  by 
J.  Schuberth , it  was  soon  announced  for  performance  at  other 
theatres  in  Germany,  viz.  at  Berlin,  Dresden,  Brunswick  and 
Detmold;  but  in  other  (catholic)  cities,  like  Munich,  Vienna  &c., 
objection  was  taken  to  the  libretto,  which  had  been  asked 
for  examination,  and  therefore  the  performance  was  abstained 
from. 

As  Spohr  was  invited  to  direct  personally  the  first  per- 
formance of  his  “Crusaders”  at  Berlin,  he  was  desirous  that 
this  should  take  place  during  his  theatrical  vacation;  and 
although  he  was  apprised  from  there  that  it  was  the  most 
unfavourable  season  of  the  year  for  it,  as  the  chief  characters 
of  his  opera  could  not  be  satisfactorily  represented  till  after 
the  return  of  the  absent  principal  singers,  he  nevertheless 
though  it  more  advisable  to  do  without  their  assistance,  than 
by  a longer  delay  to  make  the  possibility  of  his  coming  a 
matter  of  uncertainty. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  holidays  he  therefore  set  out  on 
the  journey,  but  first  to  Oldenburg,  to  direct  a grand  concert 
there,  the  receipts  from  which  were  destined  for  the  institution 
of  a pension  fund  for  the  members  of  the  orchestra  there. 

The  programme  had  been  previously  cast  by  A.  Pott, 
the  resident  director,  his  former  pupil  and  enthusiastic  ad- 
mirer, and  consisted  wholly  of  Spohr' s compositions,  viz. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


263 


concert  overture  in  the  serious  style;  latest  violin  concerts  in 
E minor f executed  by  the  composer;  duett  from  “Jessonda”  sung 
by  Mrs.  Schmidt  of  Bremen  and  Mr.  **;  clarinet  concerto, 
played  by  Mr.  Kohn,  member  of  the  ducal  orchestra;  grand 
symphony  in  C minor  (No.  5);  the  “Lord’s  Prayer,”  for  solo, 
chorus,  and  orchestra. 

Upon  Spohr' s arrival  he  found  the  whole  of  the  musical 
pieces  (the  last  two  of  which  he  himself  directed)  so  well 
practised  under  Pott's  direction,  that  at  the  rehearsal  he  was 
greatly  pleased  by  it.  At  the  public  performance,  also,  every 
thing  went  off  so  well,  that  Mrs.  Spohr  expresses  herself  in 
a letter  home  as  follows:  “We  felt  as  though  we  had  been 
suddenly  transported  to  England.  The  music,  the  finished 
execution,  the  spacious,  densely  filled,  and  splendidly  acoustic 
building,  the  enthusiastic  applause  and  admiration  — all  were 
in  truth  grandly  English . And  all  this  was  doubly  surprising 
and  gratifying  when  one  thinks  that  this  took  place  in  a small 
town  with  a population  of  only  12,000.  Orchestra  and  singers, 
three  hundred  persons  in  all,  worked  together  with  wonderful 
harmony.  Every  piece  of  music  was  excellent,  but  the  impres- 
sion made  by  the  ‘Lord’s  Prayer’  was  quite  indescribable , and 
the  words  in  which  Pott  shortly  before  expressed  himself  to 
Spohr , after  a rehearsal  of  it:  ‘Happy  is  the  man  who  can 
pray  with  such  intense  devotion;  peace  must  indeed  dwell  in 
his  soul,’  presented  themselves  here  in  their  full  import  to  my 
mind.  Spohr,  also,  was  of  my  opinion  that  he  had  never  heard 
the  piece  so  well  played,  for  even  in  the  finest  shades  of  the 
expression  there  was  nothing  more  to  be  desired.  The  whole 
platform  from  which  Spohr  led  the  orchestra,  and  the  steps 
leading  to  it,  were  strewn  with  the  finest  roses ; the  whole  front 
of  the  orchestra  was  decorated  with  wreaths;  and  beneath  his  bust, 
crowned  with  laurel,  were  the  words  ‘ Louis  Spohr ’ in  gigantic  let- 
ters, composed  of  roses  and  laurel  artistically  interwoven.  While 
the  assembly  were  listening  with  the  deepest  attention  to  the 
splendid  tones,  it  was  little  imagined  by  any  one  how  every 
enjoyment  was  embittered  to  Spohr , by  a sudden  seizure  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


264 


cramp  in  the  stomach,  which  soon  became  so  intense,  as  he 
himself  afterwards  related,  that  when  conducting  the  symphony 
and  the  ‘Lord’s  Prayer’  he  had  great  difficultly  in  keeping  him- 
self erect.  After  the  concert  we  were  to  have  assisted  at 
another  ftte , given  by  the  minister  von  Beaulieu  at  his  house, 
in  honour  of  Spohr;  but  under  the  circumstances  this  became 
impossible,  and  we  hastened  home  with  all  speed,  where,  having 
arrived,  Spohr  went  immediately  to  bed,  and  was  obliged  to 
resort  to  sedatives;  but  the  cramp  would  not  yield  to  them, 
and  the  doctor  who  was  called  in,  vainly  endeavoured  to  afford 
him  relief,  so  that  the  pain  became  intense.  At  this  very 
moment  when  Spohr  lay  in  such  a sad  condition  of  suffering  that 
he  expected  every  moment  would  be  his  last,  a singular  and 
striking  contrast  was  presented  to  his  position,  by  a monster 
torch-light  procession  followed  by  a large  concourse  of  the 
inhabitants  of  Oldenburg,  which  halted  under  our  windows, 
and  began  a grand  serenade  with  the  overture  and  several 
choruses  from  ‘Jessonda,’  performed  by  all  the  native  and 
foreign  musicians  then  in  Oldenburg,  together  with  three  choral 
societies.  Many  other  pieces  were  to  have  been  performed, 
but  by  Spohr' s wish,  Pott  availed  himself  of  the  opportunity 
when  a loud  cheer  was  raised  by  the  crowd,  to  address  them 
in  his  name  from  the  window  in  a speech  of  thanks,  which, 
although  improvised,  was  as  well  put  together  and  delivered 
as  though  he  had  long  previously  studied  it.  But  when  he 
acquainted  them  with  Spohr' s illness  also,  a general  depression 
spread  immediately  through  all  present,  and  the  previously  so 
joyous  assembled  serenaders,  withdrew  in  silent  sadness.  In 
our  house,  meanwhile,  all  was  remarkably  lively:  the  hostess, 
Mrs.  Oppermann , wife  of  the  Councillor  Oppermann  of  the 
high  court  of  appeal,  was  entertaining  two  carriage-loads  of 
guests  who  had  come  to  the  concert,  together  with  all  her 
acquaintance,  who  had  assembled  below  to  be  enabled  to  hear 
the  serenade  music  better.  In  strange  contrast  with  these  in- 
tervened the  various  attendances  to  the  necessities  of  our 


Digitized  by  Google 


265 


patient,  the  messages  to  the  apothecary,  my  agony  of  mind  — 
in  fact,  it  was  a situation  singular  indeed  of  its  kind. 

“At  midnight  the  physician  came  again,  wrote  some  new 
prescriptions,  and  gave  fresh  instructions,  but  all  in  vain ; the 
attacks  of  the  cramp  lasted  till  near  3 o’clock,  when  they 
became  at  length  less  violent,  and  by  degrees  entirely  ceased. 
But  as  the  doctor  was  of  opinion  this  morning  that  the  motiofi 
of  the  carriage  might  be  prejudical  to  the  invalid,  we  have 
deferred  our  departure,  and  the  more  so,  as  we  could  be 
nowhere  better  off  than  here,  where  we  receive  the  kindest  at- 
tention and  care  from  the  whole  household,  and  everything 
that  the  heart  can  wish  is  at  our  service.  To-day,  Spohr  re- 
ceived from  the  Grand-duke  a splendid  diamond  ring  as  a 
‘souvenir  of  Oldenburg,’  which  greatly  surprised  and  pleased 
him.  The  Grand-duke  had  intended  to  place  the  ring  himself 
on  his  finger  at  the  dinner  to  which  he  had  invited  him,  but 
this  also  was  defeated  by  the  illness  that  overtook  him,”  &c. 

Spohr  having  determined  by  the  advice  of  the  physician 
to  proceed  as  soon  as  possible  direct  from  Oldenburg  to  the 
baths  of  Carlsbad,  and  devote  the  remainder  of  his  vacation 
to  the  re-establishment  of  his  health  by  drinking  the  waters, 
he  thought  he  should  no  longer  be  able  to  fulfill  his  promises 
— to  direct  his  “ Jessonda”  at  Bremen,  and  the  first  performance 
of  the  “Crusaders”  at  Berlin  — wherefore  with  a heavy 
heart  he  sent  off  letters  announcing  his  inability  to  proceed 
to  those  places. 

Meanwhile,  however,  the  remarkable  efficacy  of  the  Carls- 
bad waters,  which  he  had  already  several  times  experienced, 
evinced  itself  again  upon  him  in  so  satisfactory  a manner,  that 
in  the  very  first  week  of  his  stay  the  idea  suggested  itself  to 
him,  to  remain  for  the  present  but  a fortnight  only  in  Carls- 
bad, and  defer  following  up  the  cure  of  its  waters  to  the 
following  summer,  so  that  his  so  unwillingly  abandoned  pur- 
pose of  proceeding  to  Berlin  might  yet  be  carried  out.  In 
this  hope  he  continued  the  course  of  baths  with  such  un- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


-riJT 


— 266  — 

wearied  perseverance  and  unswerving  confidence  that  he  was 
enabled  to  reach  Berlin  in  sufficient  time  to  assume  personally 
the  direction  of  his  “Crusaders.” 

At  the  first  grand  rehearsal,  in  which  he  was  introduced  by 
Meyerbeer  and  Councillor  Kustner  to  the  assembled  company  of 
the  theatre,  he  became  convinced  that  his  work  had  been  studied 
with  particular  pleasure  and  predilection,  and  the  song  parts, 
although  not  filled  by  stars  of  the  first  magnitude,  were  never- 
theless impersonated,  as  regarded  the  chief  and  secondary 
characters,  in  a thoroughly  satisfactory  manner.  On  the  evening 
of  the  performance  he  was  received  upon  his  appearance  with 
the  greatest  enthusiasm  by  the  public,  and  loudly  called  for 
after  every  act.  On  the  following  night  the  opera  was  repeated 
with  the  same  brilliant  success.  The  public  papers  contained 
also  the  most  favourable  notices  of  each,  and  the  “Vossische 
Zeitung”  especially  gave  an  article  from  the  pen  of  Rellstab 
to  this  effect:  “We  have  to  speak  of  an  event  in  art  that  will 
occupy  one  of  the  most  prominent  and  honourable  places  in 
the  history  of  our  stage  — the  first  performance  of  Louis  Spohr’s 
new  opera,  “The  Crusaders.”  The  merits  of  the  master  have 
already  made  themselves  so  prominently  conspicuous,  and  the 
worth  of  that  which  we  possess  in  him  is  so  fully  acknowledged, 
that  it  is  not  necessary  even  to  speak  of  the  character  of  his 
music  nor  of  its  effects  upon  the  development  of  art  in  the 
present  day  ....  What  we  had  to  expect  as  a whole,  every 
body  knew  who  knows  the  artistic  direction  of  Spohr's  genius 
— and  who  does  not  know  it?  That  we  should  hear  a work 
that  might  be  ranked  with  the  noblest  of  the  kind  to  which 
the  composer  has  adhered  throughout  his  whole  life,  was  to  be 
expected.  But  we  must  frankly  confess,  we  had  not  dared  to 
hope  for  so  much  freshness,  so  many  instances  of  fiery  power, 
as  the  now  more  than  sexagenarian  master  actually  gives  us! 
Throughout  the  whole,  he  is  the  same  we  have  long  known; 
but  in  many  circumstances  of  the  detail  he  presents  us  with 
numerous  gifts  of  new  and  finished  excellence  — and  also  of 


Digitized  by  Google 


267 


frequent  brilliancy.  His  muse  has  never  addressed  herself  to 
the  crowd;  she  never  sought  to  se.duce  by  coquettish  and 
alluring  advances;  her  language,  her  movements  have  been 
alone  animated  by  a noble  spiritual  inspiration,  and  sought  to 
win  the  heart  by  purity  and  dignity.  We  had  at  first  intended 
to  indicate  the  most  prominently  beautiful  passages,  which  we 
consider  it  just  to  particularise;  but  we  soon  found  them  so 
numerous,  that  we  were  compelled  to  content  ourselves  with 
a selection.  In  the  first  act  we  recall  to  mind  the  singular 
freshness  of  Baldwin’s  greeting;  Emma’s  devout  song:  uDass 
ich  die  Braut  des  Himmels  bin,”  the  effective  and  ominous 
mingling  of  the  tolling  of  the  funeral  bell  in  the  discourse 
with  the  porteress;  the  first  strong  physiognomic  delineations 
of  the  abbess  Celestina,  in  the  words:  “Ich  kenne  Dein  Ge- 
schlecht  — Dein  Schicksal  fiihrt  Dich  her ; ” we  remember 
some  features  that  designate  the  same  character  and  its  im- 
passioned ebullition,  as:  the  soft  transition  of  the  orchestra 
after  the  words:  “Ihr  sollt  das  Madchen  lieben;”  and  the 
subsequent  words:  “Gerichtet  hat  ihn  Gott!  — die  Mutter 
weint,  — die  Tochter  biisst,  — dem  Todten  sei  verziehen;” 
which  are  of  the  deepest  and  most  impressive  effect  from  their 
musical  treatment.  — The  march  of  the  Saracens  in  this  act 
is  also  of  most  original  colouring,  and  recurs  again  in  the 
third  act,  where  it  is  connected  with  that  which  has  gone 
before,  and  is  handled  in  so  startling  and  beautiful  a manner 
in  the  orchestra,  that  the  public  expressed  their  delight  at  the 
return  to  it  there  by  a general  outburst  of  applause.  — If  we 
cite  fewer  passages  in  the  subsequent  acts,  it  is  not  that  these 
were  poorer,  but  not  to  weary  the  reader’s  patience  with  the 
enumeration  of  individual  parts;  and  indeed  the  power  of  the 
music  increases  with  the  interest  of  the  subject  treated.  The 
recognition  scene  between  Balduin  and  Emma,  Balduin’s  threat 
at  its  conclusion,  and  the  whole  finale  of  the  second  act,  form 
striking  moments,  which  always  ensure  the  admiration  of  the 
hearer.  In  the  third  act,  the  duet  between  Balduin  and  Bruno 


Digitized  by 


Google 


268 


is  a fine  master-piece  of  music,  and  the  conclusion,  the  despair 
of  Balduin,  replete  with  energetic  force,  and  instnimented  in 
a truly  powerful  manner.  The  battle  chorus  of  the  Turks, 
from  its  prominent  difference  of  colouring,  excited  the  enthu- 
siasm of  the  auditory,  who  followed  the  conformity  of  the 
opera  well  sustained  throughout  from  that  part  to  the  end, 
with  the  most  lively  interest We  must  also  acknow- 

ledge the  zeal  of  all  the  performers  ....  But  no 
less  are  thanks  and  honour  due  to  the  public ! They 
have  this  time  shewn  themselves  fully  sensible  of  their 
office  of  judge  and  reward-giver,  and  gave  that  unremitting 
attention  to  the  work  throughout  which  is  most  expres- 
sive of  the  admiration  and  interest  it  awakened.  Scarcely 
any  fine  passage  passed  unnoticed  by  more  or  less  warm  de- 
monstrations. . . . The  day  thus  terminated  in  a triumph  for 
long  years  of  meritorious  services,  and  in  a day  of  honour 
for  this  particular  work,  which  bears  witness  to  the  wealth  in 
artistic  riches  possessed  by  the  composer,  and  in  what  sure 
keeping  and  governance  they  are  in  the  hands  of  our  highly 
esteemed  master;”  &c.  — Passing  over  other  similar  notices, 
a criticism  (signed  H.  T.)  may  be  adverted  to  here,  for  its 
strikingly  harsh  contrast  with  the  former;  overflowing  with 
dissatisfaction  and  every  kind  of  reproach  of  this  opera,  and 
which  although  not  among  the  other  papers  now  before  us,  is 
still  remembered  by  the  family  as  one  that  greatly  surprised 
them  by  its  contents.  In  cases  of  this  kind  Spohr  always 
laughed  at  the  angry  zeal  of  his  friends,  affirming  that  every 
one  had  a right  to  express  his  personal  opinion  freely,  but  at 
the  same  time  with  the  remark:  “When  a piece  of  music  is 
really  good,  no  reviling  critic  can  take  from  it  an  atom  of  its 
merit!”  — 

Though  the  brilliant  success  of  this  opera,  which  Spohr 
had  written  under  circumstances  of  particular  predilection, 
constituted  the  most  important  moment  of  his  eight  days’  visit 
to  Berlin,  he  passed  the  previous  and  subsequent  days  in  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


269 


most  agreeable  maimer  in  the  amiable  family  circle  of  Professor 
Wichmann.  But  not  alone  in  the  hospitable  reception  accorded 
him  and  his  wife,  which  afforded  them  all  the  delights  of  a 
charming  domesticity,  did  Spohr  experience  the  highest  gratifi- 
cation; for  from  other  quarters  also  marks  of  attention  were 
shown  him  yet  more  demonstrative  of  the  honour  in  which  his 
genius  was  held. 

Especially  gratifying  as  were  to  him  the  attentions  of  his 
colleagues  in  art,  Meyerbeer,  Taubert , Hub.  Riess,  and  others, 
he  was  not  insensible  to  the  tribute  of  acknowledgment  paid 
to  him  by  the  King;  and  the  honour  of  an  invitation  to  the 
royal  table  was  yet  more  enhanced  in  worth  to  him,  from  its 
being  communicated  to  him  at  the  King’s  request  in  a personal 
visit  from  the  celebrated  Alexander  v . Humboldt.  Of  this 
royal  dinner  party,  at  which,  besides  Humboldt,  Tiek , v.  Savigny , 
and  other  personages  of  note  were  present,  who  emulated  with 
each  other  in  pleasing  and  intellectual  conversation  with  the 
King  and  Queen,  Spohr  always  spoke  with  much  pleasure  in 
later  years.  More  especially,  however,  he  would  recur  to  the 
following  amusing  incident: 

Between  the  King  and  Spohr , who  was  seated  opposite  to 
him,  rose  an  ornamental  centre-piece  of  considerable  height,  in 
the  shape  of  a costly  flower-vase,  which  whenever  the  King 
was  desirous  of  addressing  his  conversation  to  Spohr,  greatly  in- 
terfered and  prevented  him  from  seeing  his  face.  Upon  each 
occasion,  the  King  was  obliged  to  stoop  in  order  to  look  round 
the  inconveniently  intervening  object,  until  growing  impatient, 
after  having  made  several  signs  to  the  servants  to  remove  it, 
which  they  appeared  not  to  have  understood,  the  King  seized 
it  with  his  own  hand,  and  removing  the  obtrusive  ornament 
procured  for  himself  an  unimpeded  view  across  the  table  to 
Spohr.  — On  the  last  evening,  while  the  Wichmann  family 
and  their  guests  were  seated  in  the  illuminated  garden  saloon 
in  friendly  chat,  they  were  greatly  surprised  by  the  sudden 
entry  from  the  obscurity  of  the  garden  of  several  dark  figures, 
which  were  followed  by  a constantly  increasing  number,  until 


Digitized  by  Le 


270 


the  whole  of  the  members  of  the  royal  orchestra,  with  Meyer - 
beer  and  Taubert  at  their  head,  assembled,  upon  which  the 
senior  member  presented  Spohr  with  a beautifully  executed 
golden  laurel-wreath,  while  Meyerber , in  a speech  of  much 
feeling,  thanked  him  “for  all  the  grand  and  beautiful  things 
which  in  his  enthusiastic  love  of  true  German  art  he  had 
hitherto  created,  and  especially  for  this  his  excellent  work, 
“The  Crusaders,”  &c.  This  discourse  upon  the  evening  of  his 
taking  leave,  spoken  with  warmth  and  sincerity  by  such  a 
man,  could  not  fail  to  make  a deep  impression  upon  Spohr 
and  every  person  present,  and  it  was  followed  by  a silence 
the  most  profound;  until  professor  Wichmann , who  was  the 
first  to  recover  his  self-possession,  approached  Meyerbeer , and 
to  the  just  praises  conveyed  in  his  excellent  speech,  replied 
with  much  humour  in  the  words:  “Positively,  Demosthenes 
was  a mere  stump  orator  in  comparison  to  you!”  at  which 
the  cheerful  tone  of  the  comply  was  magically  restored, 
and  Spohr  then  returned  thanks  in  a concise  yet  feeling 
manner.  Besides  this  handsome  present  from  the  royal  Berlin 
orchestra,  he  took  back  with  him  to  Cassel  another  souvenir 
of  his  stay  there,  viz.  his  own  bust  executed  by  professor  Wick- 
mann , which  on  account  of  its  speaking  resemblance  and 
artistic  excellence  has  always  been  greatly  admired  both  by 
connoisseurs  and  the  general  public. 

Scarcely  had  Spohr  returned  to  Cassel  than  he  was  again 
upon  the  move,  and  this  time  to  Bonn,  where  on  the  11th.  of  Au- 
gust the  inauguration  of  the  monument  to  Beethoven  was  to  be 
celebrated.  To  the  invitation  that  had  been  sent  to  him  many 
weeks  before,  to  conduct  a portion  of  the  musical  performance 
upon  the  occasion,  he  had  at  first,  it  is  true,  replied  declining 
it,  as  a special  leave  of  absence  would  have  been  necessary 
for  him  to  proceed  thither,  and  after  having  already  applied 
for  one  the  year  before  to  direct  the  Brunswick  musical  festival, 
he  did  not  like  to  make  a similar  application  so  soon.  It  was 
however  shortly  announced  to  him  in  a second  letter,  that 
the  committee  of  the  festival  having  been  informed  that  the 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


271 


Prince  was  then  staying  at  Cologne  for  a few  days,  they  had 
despatched  a deputation  thither  to  invite  him  and  the  Countess 
Schaumburg  to  the  approaching  ceremony  in  her  native  town  of 
Bonn,  and  to  solicit  at  the  same  a leave  of  absence  for  Spohr , 
which  had  been  graciously  granted.  As  no  further  obstacle 
now  intervened,  Spohr  lost  no  time  in  proceeding  thither,  to  lend 
his  personal  assistance  at  the  grand  festival,  which  had  drawn 
together  from  far  and  near  the  musical  youth  of  Germany,  to 
do  honour  to  the  great  master  whose  memorial  was  to  be 
inaugurated. 

Of  the  festivities  preceding  and  subsequent  to  the  uncover- 
ing of  the  statue  — the  launching  of  the  steam-boat  “ Ludurig  van 
Beethoven”  the  excursion  to  Nonnenwerth,  the  grand  procession, 
the  pyrotechnic  display,  illumination/  banquet  and  ball  — 
all  these  things  have  been  so  frequently  described  verbally 
and  in  writing  by  many  who  were  present  at  the  festival,  that 
we  will  here  only  concisely  advert  to  its  musical  features. 

In  the  first  grand  concert  Beethoven's  mass  in  D major 
and  the  ninth  symphony  were  performed  under  Spohr' s direction, 
and  as  the  published  accounts  of  the  festival  express  it,  “both 
these  works,  which  present  very  great  difficulties,  were  per- 
formed with  the  most  finished  execution,  so  that  this  concert 
alone,  combined  with  the  sight  of  the  hall  in  which  it  took 
place,  was  well  worth  the  journey  to  Bonn.”  On  the  following 
day,  Beethoven's  grand  mass  in  C major  was  performed  at  the 
celebration  of  divine  service  in  the  minster  church , and  upon 
the  uncovering  of  the  statue  a festive  cantata  by  Breitenstem 
was  performed  under  his  direction.  At  the  second  grand 
concert  in  the  hall  Spohr , by  the  desire  of  Lisst,  again  directed 
a part,  while  the  services  of  the  latter,  as  an  active  member 
of  the  committee,  being  continually  required  in  various  depart- 
ments, with  the  exception  of  his  performance  of  Beethoven's  piano- 
forte concerto  in  E major , he  confined  himself  to  the  direction 
of  the  G minor  symphony  and  some  “numbers”  of  the  Fidelio. 
The  third,  so-called  musicians’  concert,  was  subjected  of  a 
necessity  to  many  changes  of  the  fourteen  pieces  of  which 


Digitized  by 


Google 


its  programme  consisted,  as,  besides  the  Princes  who  were 
already  arrived,  the  King  and  Queen  of  Prussia,  the  Queen  of 
England  with  her  consort,  and  other  exalted  personages  were 
expected  at  the  solemnities  of  the  inauguration  of  the  statue, 
and  Lisst  did  not  like  to  begin  his  festive  cantata  before 
their  arrival.  But  it  became  at  length  necessary  to  make 
a beginning,  and  scarcely  was  the  first  “jjimber”  of  Lisst's 
cantata  concluded,  than  the  royal  personages  made  their  ap- 
pearance, and  the  assembled  company  saluted  them  with  the 
national-hymn:  “Heil  Dir  im  Siegerkranz ; ” after  which 
Lisst  had  the  whole  cantata  repeated ; upon  the  con- 
clusion of  which  it  was  left  to  the  two  Queens  to  make  the 
selection  of  the  next  musical-pieces  which  were  to  be  performed 
in  their  presence.  It  Vas  thus,  that  not  only  the  pieces  of  the 
programme  were  changed  from  their  announced  order  of  suc- 
cession, but  several  of  the  pieces  were  necessarily  wholly 
omitted  on  account  of  the  delay  that  had  thus  occurred;  and 
the  musical  part  of  the  festival  was  brought  to  a termination 
in  a somewhat  unsatisfactory  manner,  and  without  a real  and 
proper  conclusion  in  the  opinion  of  a majority  of  the  auditory. 
A chosen  few,  however,  among  whom  was  Spohr , received  an 
invitation  to  the  grand  court  concert,  given  by  the  King  of 
Prussia  in  honour  of  his  exalted  guests  at  his  palace  of  the 
Briihl,  in  the  neighbourhood.  Meyerbeer  directed,  and  the 
programme  consisted,  with  the  exception  of  some  pianoforte- 
pieces  performed  by  Lisst , of  song-pieces  only,  sung  by  the 
most  eminent  vocalists,  Messrs.  Mantius , Pischeck  and  Staudigl, 
with  Mdmes.  Lind,  Garcia  and  Tuczek . 

After  a summer  so  busily  occupied,  and  in  which  Spohr 
was  deprived  of  all  leisure  for  composing,  the  impulse  to  write 
something  new  was  awakened  but  the  more  strongly  upon  his 
return  to  Cassel,  and  several  instrumental  compositions  followed 
each  other  in  quick  succession,  to  which  style  of  art,  since  the 
termination  of  his  opera,  his  whole  mind  again  more  espe- 
cially addressed  itself.  About  this  period  he  wrote  his  15th. 
violin-concerto  ( E minor , Op.  128,  published  by  Schuberth ), 


Digitized  by 


Google 


273 


which  he  first  played  at  the  subscription- concerts  in  Cassel, 
and  in  July  1845  at  the  previously  mentioned  musical  festival 
at  Oldenburg,  and  then  in  commemoration  of  that  event  de- 
dicated it  to  Foil  the  music  director  of  that  place.  This  was 
followed  by  the  sixth  quintet  for  stringed  instruments  (E  minor 
Op.  129,  published  by  Breitkopf  & Hartel) ; and  in  the  course 
of  the  winter  by  a quintet  for  pianoforte,  two  violins,  viola 
and  violincello,  in  D minor  (Op.  130,  published  by  Schuberth); 
the  30th.  quartet  for  stringed  instruments  (Op.  132,  published 
by  Breitkopf) ; and  a quartet  concert  to  for  two  violins,  viola 
and  violincello,  with  orchestra  — the  latter  of  which  was  played 
at  the  next  subscription  concerts,  and  by  the  addition  of  the 
rich  instrumental  accompaniment  proved  especially  adapted  as  a 
simple  quartet  for  performance  at  a concert  in  a spacious  building. 
Before  it  had  appeared  in  print  (Op.  130,  at  Schuberth’s),  it  was 
sent  for  from  London  and  Vienna,  and  especially  asked  for  at 
Leipzic,  at  which  place  the  directors  of  the  Gewandhaus 
concerts  were  always  extremely  desirous  of  being  able  to 
announce  in  their  programme  a new  composition  in  manuscript 
by  Spohr.  Such  upon  this  occasion  was  also  the  sentiment 
of  M.  Hauptmann  in  a letter  to  Spohr : “Everything  coming 
from  you,  old  or  new,  always  finds  the  most  favourable  reception 
here:  one  can  easily  judge  from  the  applause  whether  a thing 
merely  pleases,  or  whether  it  makes  a deep  pleasurable  im- 
pression, and  that  is  always  the  case  with  your  things.  Either 
song  or  instrumental  music  of  yours  is  always  listened  to  with 
real  predilection,  the  concert-loving  public  finds  itself  then  in 
an  atmosphere  that  suits  it;  and  in  this  manner  also  the 
quartet  concerto  (with  the  execution  of  which  I was  not  alto- 
gether satisfied)  met  with  a very  warm  approval.  To  my  mind 
it  is  perfectly  Spohrisch , i.  e.  as  masterly,  as  it  is  replete  with 
feeling : the  great  difficulties  attending  such  an  undertaking  are 
not  in  the  least  perceptible  when  listening  to  it,  and  as  in 
your  double  quartets,  the  greatest  clearness  is  always  apparent 
in  the  most  scientific  combinations,  which  cannot  always  be 
said  of  other  compositions  that  overstep  the  limits  of  the  ordinary; 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  H.  jg 


Digitized  by 


Google 


that  is,  what  the  initiated  understand  and  consider  as  high 
art,  hut  which  the  mere  hearer  of  feeling  finds  pleasing  and 
which  put  him  in  good  humour,”  &c.  The  correspondence 
upon  these  subjects  was  chiefly  conducted  by  Mendelssohn,  who 
also  made  the  proposition  to  introduce  the  third  act  of 
the  Crusaders  as  a whole,  in  one  of  the  concerts  there,  and 
afterwards  announced  to  Spohr , who  was  of  opinion  that  this 
opera  in  particular  was  not  very  suited  to  the  purpose,  his 
entire  satisfaction:  “The  first  time  I saw  your  work  iu  Berlin, 
the  third  act  appeared  to  me  the  most  spirited,  and  finest  in 
the  whole  opera,  and  I was  convinced  that  it  would  be  very 
effective  in  a concert.  You  seemed  to  doubt  it,  and  therefore 
I am  the  more  pleased  that  yesterday’s  performance  of  it  made 
so  great  an  impression,  which,  to  judge  from  the  attention 
of  the  auditory,  the  applause  and  their  observations,  appears  to 
me  very  evident . . . The  chorus  was  about  two  hundred  strong, 
and  the  hymn  in  M major,  the  chorus  for  male  voices  in  C major, 
and  then  the  scene  in  the  convent,  sounded  wonderfully  fine. 
A thousand  hearty  thanks  for  this  enjoyment,  and  for  all  the 
many  beautiful  things  for  which  we  are  indebted  to  you.  . . . 
Unfortunately  I was  not  able  so  to  manage  that  the  direction 
of  this  concert  would  fall  to  me;  but  it  went  so  well  under 
Gade,  and  he  had  made  himself  so  well  acquainted  with  the 
whole  work,  that  even  you  would  scarcely  have  desired  more,”  &c. 

In  striking  contrast  with  these  friendly  words  of  acknowledge- 
ment from  so  competent  a judge,  a*  circumstance  occurred  about 
the  same  time,  which  from  being  considered  by  Spohr  himself 
as  the  only  one  of  the  kind  throughout  his  long  musical  career, 
may  not  be  undeserving  of  special  mention  here.  Though  the 
opera  of  the  Crusaders  had  been  sent  by  special  request  to 
Dresden  for  performance  there,  upwards  of  a twelvemonth,  it 
had  never  yet  been  put  upon  the  stage ; and  during  that  time 
the  directors  Reissiger  and  Wagner,  as  also  the  celebrated 
tenor  Tichatscheck , for  whose  splendid  voice  the  part  of 
Balduin  seemed  almost  purposely  written,  had  repeatedly 
expressed  by  letter  their  pleasure  with  the  work,  and  their 


Digitized  by  Google 


275 


regret  at  the  constantly  recurring  delays,  which  deprived  them 
of  all  hope  of  Spohr's  proceeding  there  to  direct  it  — when 
suddenly,  to  his  great  astonishment,  the  score,  not  a little  worn 
and  defaced,  was  sent  back  from  Dresden,  without  honorarium, 
and  even  without  the  libretto,  to  which  Spohr  had  with  much 
trouble  appended  many  remarks  and  directions  in  writing ; ac- 
companied only  with  a letter  from  the  manager,  Mr.  von 
LUttichau , the  very  unsatisfactory  contents  of  which  may  be 
inferred  from  the  following  accidentally  preserved  copy  of 
Spohr' s reply: 

“Your  Excellency’s  letter  of  the  15th.  inst.  has  very  much 
surprised  me.  I never  could  have  believed,  after  my  long,  and 
I think  I may  say  honourable,  career  as  a musician,  that  I 
should  have  lived  to  experience  the  indignity  to  have  the  score 
of  one  of  my  works  — not  sent  in  as  the  first  essay  of  a be- 
ginner for  examination  and  trial,  but  ordered  by  previous  ap- 
plication — sent  back  to  me  in  such  a manner.  What  you  are 
pleased  to  assign  by  way  of  explanation  or  excuse  for  so 
strange  a proceeding,  I cannot  possibly  accept ; for  it  was  no 
fault  of  mine  that  the  opera  was  not  brought  out  at  the  ap- 
pointed time,  and  both  soon  enough  and  frequently  enough  had 
I drawn  attention  to  the  circumstance  that  I could  obtain  no 
leave  of  absence  out  of  my  vacation  time.  How  the  opera, 
which  is  known  by  nobody  in  Dresden,  should  now  have  lost 
the  charm  of  novelty  I can  as  little  understand,  as  that  the  con- 
tents of  the  opera,  which  were  already  known  to  you  when  you 
ordered  it,  should  now  all  at  once  be  found  objectionable, 
while  here  and  in  Berlin,  it  has  not  met  with  the  least  ob- 
jection in  its  present  form,  nor  formerly,  when  performed  in 
the  shape  of  a play  throughout  Germany.  Had  your  excellency 
felt  any  anxiety  lest  the  opera  would  not  remunerate  for  the 
time  given  to  its  study,  and  the  expenses  it  might  entail,  you 
could  assuredly  have  found  some  relief  for  your  doubts  in  the 
many  numerously  attended  performances  which  have  already 
taken  place  here,  in  Berlin,  Brunswick,  &c.  It  is  difficult  for 
me  also  to  conceive  how  the  work  of  an  old  experienced  com- 

18* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


276 


poser  should  be  rejected  by  a theatre  which  does  not  disdain 
the  rapid  works  of  beginners  and  dilettanti  such  as  ... . and 
....  The  insult  that  has  been  offered  to  me  is  therefore 
wholly  inexplicable,  and  I must  console  myself  with  the  re- 
flexion, that  it  is  the  only  one  of  the  kind  offered  to  me  during 
my  long  career  as  a composer , and  I congratulate  myself  that 
I am  not  under  a theatrical  directorship  which  so  little  under- 
stands how  to  respect  the  feelings  of  a veteran  artist,”  &c. 
To  this  a reply  was  received  from  the  vice-manager,  K.  Winkler, 
who  at  the  request  of  Mr.  von  Liittichau , expressed  his  regret 
that  the  return  of  his  score,  which  had  become  necessary, 
should  have  so  milch  offended  Spohr,  assuring  him  further- 
more, that  the  chief  reason  for  it  was  the  words  and  subject 
of  the  opera,  during  the  ecclesiastical  excitement. 

But  that  Spohr  s view  of  the  matter  was  not  much  changed 
by  this  attempt  at  exculpation  is  evident  from  a letter  he  wrote 
to  Bichard  Wagner,  in  which  he  opens  his  wThole  mind  to  him, 
and  having  first  expressed  his  disappointment  that  Wagner's 
opera  “Tannhauser,”  which  he  had  proposed  to  the  Prince  to 
have  performed  in  celebration  of  his  birth  day,  had  not  re- 
ceived the  oificial  sanction,  he  avails  himself  of  the  opportunity 
to  detail  fully  to  him  the  incomprehensible  conduct  of  the 
Dresden  theatrical  directorship.  Wagner,  who  then  first  was 
made  acquainted  with  all  the  particulars,  gave  expression  to 
his  anger  thereat,  in  so  plainspoken  a manner,  that  the  pub- 
lication of  his  letter,  highly  interesting  as  it  is,  would  perhaps 
be  unadvisable.  After  the  prospect  of  a meeting  with  Wagner 
in  Dresden  had  beqpt  dispelled  in  so  vexatious  a manner, 
Spohr  proposed  to  him  a rendez-vous  at  Leipzic,  where  he 
intended  making  a stay  of  a few  days  on  his  contemptated 
journey  with  his  wife  to  Carlsbad.  As  Wagner  seized  the  idea 
with  much  pleasure,  the  long  desired  personal  acquaintance 
was  at  length  made  with  the  greatest  mutual  satisfaction,  and 
letters  addressed  to  the  family  at  home  speak  among  other 
things  of  this  meeting,  and  other  interesting  circumstances  that 
occurred  during  their  stay  there: 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


277 


“We  are  passing  our  time  here  most  delightfully,  and 
enjoying  a very  feast  of  the  finest  music.  On  the  very  first 
evening  we  had  a music  party  at  Hauptmann's , where  trios  by 
Mendelssohn  and  Spohr , in  which  each  master  took  part,  were 
played ; and  the  company,  consisting  chiefly  of  connoisseurs  in 
art,  were  highly  delighted  indeed.  On  the  following  day  a 
very  charming  dinner-party  was  given  at  Wagner's  suggestion, 
who  has  himself  no  means  of  entertaining  friends  at  Leipzic,  by 
his  brother-in-law,  Professor  Brockhaus , in  honour  of  Spohr . 
We  there  made  the  acquaintance  of  his  sister  and  several 
others  of  his  relatives,  all  of  them  most  intellectual  creatures, 
and  enjoyed  ourselves  greatly.  Besides  the  members  of  the 
family,  Heinrich  Laube,  the  author,  and  his  very  learned  wife, 
were  present,  who  gave  a yet  more  lively  impress  to  the  con- 
versation. We  were  most  pleased  with  Wagner,  who  seems 
every  time  more  and  more  amiable,  and  whose  intellectual 
culture  on  every  variety  of  subject  is  really  wonderful.  Among 
other  things  he  gave  expression  to  his  sentiments  on  political 
matters  with  a warmth  and  depth  of  interest  that  quite  sur- 
prised us,  and  pleased  us  of  course  the  more  from  the  great 
liberality  of  feeling  he  displayed.  We  passed  the  evening  most 
delightfully  at  Mendelssohn's , who  did  his  utmost  to  entertain 
and  please  Spohr.  This  family  has  for  me  something  very 
idealistic  about  them,  they  present  a combination  of  inward 
and  external  features,  and  withal  so  much  beautiful  domestic 
happiness,  that  one  seldom  sees  the  like  of  in  actual  life.  In 
their  establishment  and  whole  manner  of  living  there  is  so 
much  unassuming  modesty  amid  all  the  obvious  luxury  and 
wealth  around  them,  that  one  cannot  but  feel  at  one’s  ease. 
And  to  me  most  gratifying  is  his  unmistakable  attachment  to 
and  esteem  for  Spohr.  He  himself  played  a most  extremely 
difficult  and  highly  characteristic  composition  of  his  own,  called 
‘Siebenzehn  ernste  Yariationen’  (seventeen  serious  variations), 
with  immense  effect ; then  followed  two  of  Spohr' s quartets  — 
among  them  the  newest  (the  30th.)  — on  which  occasion 
Mendelssohn  and  Wagner  read  from  the  score  with  countenances 


Digitized  by  foozle 


278 


expressive  of  their  delight.  Besides  these,  the  wife  of  doctor 
Frege  sang  some  of  Spohr's  songs,  which  Mendelssohn  accom- 
panied beautifully;  and  in  this  manner  the  hours  passed  ra- 
pidly and  delightfully  with  alternate  music  and  lively  conver- 
sation, till  midnight  drew  on  unobserved,  and  at  length  gave 
impressive  warning  to  break  up.  Wagner , who  was  obliged  to 
return  to  Dresden  the  following  day,  came  to  take  leave  of 
us,  which  both  to  us  and  to  him  was  a sad  moment.  But 
after  he  had  left,  he  was  frequently  the  subject  of  our  con- 
versation, for  he  left  us  the  words  of  a new  opera  which  he 
had  written  (Lohengrin)  to  read,  and  which  is  exceedingly 
original  and  interesting.  . . . Yesterday  at  the  dinner-table 
we  made  another  agreeable  acquaintance,  that  of  the  poet 
Robert  Prutz,  who  being  seated  exactly  opposite  to  us,  intro- 
duced himself,  sustained  a very  lively  conversation,  and  appeared 
quite  charmed  at  meeting  with  Spohr.  After  dinner  a per- 
formance was  arranged  in  the  church  by  the  pupils  of  the 
Thomas  School,  where,  without  any  accompaniment  Spohr's  psalm 
with  double  choir,  ‘Aus  der  Tiefe’  (out  of  the  deep)  and  his 
favorite  motet  by  Bach:  Tch  lasse  Dich  nicht’  (I  will  not 
leave  thee)  were  sung.  . . . Last  evening  an  extra  concert  was 
given  for  Spohr  in  the  well-known  Gewandhaus,  which,  under 
Mendelssohn's  direction,  was  in  every  respect  a brilliant  enter- 
tainment. The  programme  consisted  wholly  of  Spohr's  com- 
positions, of  which  we  had  not  been  apprized  before  hand, 
and  which  was  on  purpose  to  take  us  by  surprise.  It  com- 
prised: lstly.  The  overture  to  Faust;  2dly.  An  air  from  Jessonda 
sung  by  the  prima  donna,  Mrs.  Meyer;  3dly.  Grand  violin 
concerto  played  to  Spohr's  complete  satisfaction  by  the 
wonderful  boy  Joachim  \ 4thly.  Songs  with  clarinet  accompani- 
ment, by  the  wife  of  doctor  Frege , Mendelssohn , and  a first- 
rate  clarinetist,  so  wonderfully  executed  that  it  went  to  the 
very  heart;  5thly.  cWeihe  der  Tone,’  which  for  years  has  been 
a bright-shining  star  with  the  Leipzic  orchestra.  At  the 
request  of  Mendelssohn,  Spohr,  although  he  would  rather  have 
remained  a hearer  only,  took  the  direction  of  the  two  last 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


279 


subjects,  on  which  occasion  he  was  greeted  by  the  orchestra 
and  the  auditory,  which  consisted  of  about  two  hundred  select 
guests,  with  a storm  of  applause,  as  he  had  also  been  saluted 
with  upon  his  entrance.  The  whole  was  a grand  elevating 
festival,  and  for  Spohr  a deeply-felt  gratification.  Mendelssohn 
was  extremely  amiable,  and  the  whole  evening  as  though  in- 
tensely happy,  which  proved  how  foreign  to  his  mind  is  every 
feeling  of  jealousy.  This  evening  the  last  music  party  will 
meet  at  Vogt's , where  Mendelssohn  proposes  to  himself  an 
especial  pleasure,  not  only  in  taking  part  in  Spohr' s first  trio 
as  pianist,  but  as  viol  in  his  splendid  third  double  quartet.” 

In  this  manner  up  to  the  last  moment  was  Mendelssohn's 
thoughtful  and  kind  attention  evinced  to  Spohr , and  upon  his 
departure  on  the  following  morning,  when  the  numerous  friends 
who  had  accompanied  us  to  the  railway-station  had  taken  leave 
of  him,  he  was,  as  the  further  accounts  of  the  journey  express 
it,  “the  last  of  all,  who,  as  the  train  at  first  proceeded  slowly, 
ran  for  a considerable  distance  by  the  side  of  the  carriage, 
until  he  could  no  longer  keep  up  with  it,  and  his  kindly 
beaming  eyes  were  the  last  that  left  their  expression  on  the 
minds  of  the  travellers  from  Leipzic,”  little  anticipating  indeed 
that  it  was  to  be  their  last  meeting  on  this  side  of  the  grave! 

Scarcely  had  Spohr  arrived  in  Carlsbad,  than  he  received 
a pressing  invitation  from  the  Landgrave  of  Furstenberg , pre- 
sident of  the  society  of  music  of  Vienna,  to  direct  there  two 
grand  performances  of  his  renowned  oratorio,  “The  Fall  of 
Babylon,”  upon  the  occasion  of  a festival  at  which  1000  singers 
would  assist.  But  as  this  was  to  take  place  in  November, 
and  it  would  be  necessary  to  ask  for  another  “extra- 
ordinary” leave  of  absence  to  comply  with  the  invitation,  this 
was  applied  for  through  the  Austrian  embassy.  But  notwith- 
standing the  signature  of  “Metternich”  gave  its  imposing  weight 
to  the  application,  the  Prince  refused  compliance,  and  thus 
not  only  was  Spohr  prevented  going,  but  the  performance  of 
his  oratorio  was  necessarily  deferred  to  a more  favourable 
opportunity. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


280 


Among  the  various  incidents  which  this  time  occurred  in 
agreeable  relief  and  interruption  to  the  daily  routine  prescribed 
for  taking  the  baths,  was  first  a concert  given  by  the  vio- 
linist Ernst , of  which  a letter  speaks  as  follows:  “The  con- 
cert of  so  celebrated  a virtuoso  was  quite  an  event  for  Carls- 
bad, and  afforded  us  much  pleasure.  Besides  the  song 
scene  of  Spohr , he  played  several  of  his  own  things,  some 
of  which  were  very  beautiful,  curious  compositions  replete 
with  all  manner  of  difficulties  and  wonderful  artistic  resorts 
for  display,  and  which  he  executed  with  great  precision 
and  ease ; but  alhough  he  played  Spohr’s  concerts  with  much 
care  and  great  expression,  yet  we  have  not  only  heard  it 
played  by  Spohr  himself,  but  by  his  talented  pupil  Jean 
Bott , much  more  correctly.  The  overcrowded  house  pre- 
sented a curious  spectacle , for  not  only  was  the  space 
allotted  to  the  spectators,  but  the  whole  stage  also,  oc- 
cupied by  the  public,  which  sat  round  disposed  in  a large  semi- 
circle,” &c.  But  amusing  scenes  of  another  kind  also  occurred 
at  Carlsbad.  One  day  a good-natured  invalid  visitor  of  the 
baths  took  it  into  his  head  to  give  a little  treat  to  the  fifteen 
young  serving-women  attached  to  the  baths,  at  which  several 
hundred  spectators  wej;e  present;  and  above  all,  Spohr , with  his 
characteristic  good  humour,  took  great  pleasure  at  the  sight 
of  the  assembled  girls,  dressed  in  their  uniform  (white  gowns, 
green  spencers , and  pink  aprons) , each  with  a fresh-gathered 
rose  in  her  hair,  seated  at  a long  table,  and  looking  around 
on  all  the  spectators  with  eyes  beaming  with  pleasure  as  they 
partook  of  their  treat  of  coffee  and  cake.  At  another  time,  by 
a similar  but  anonymous  kind-hearted  individual  a parcel  was 
sent  to  Spohr  containing  two  enormous  herrings,  remarkable 
samples  of  their  species,  with  the  laconic  inscription  appended 
to  them:  “I  love  Spohr's  music!  The  great  German  Spohr 
will  not  despise  the  accompanying  quite  fresh  herrings,  a very 
rare,  but  permitted  dish  here.  Carlsbad  June  6.”  Though 
Spohr  had  always  been  used  to  receive  a great  variety  of 
presents,  and  frequently  of  the  strangest  kind,  as  tokens  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


281 


esteem  and  admiration,  yet  he  had  never  before  received  one 
of  so  surprising  and  comical  a kind,  at  which,  with  Ernst , who 
happened  to  be  present  at  the  moment  he  received  them,  he 
laughed  very  heartily,  and  then  without  much  speculation  or 
care  as  to  who  the  anonymous  donor  might  be,  ate  with  much 
relish  the  delicious  fish,  as  a change  from  the  scant  prescript- 
ive supper  permitted  to  the  bath  patients.  As  the  greatest 
moderation  not  only  in  physical  but  mental  exertions  and 
enjoyments  formed  part  of  the  bathing  cure,  Spohr,  as  a con- 
scientious patient,  had  at  first  considered  it  a duty  to  refrain 
from  every  musical  excitement,  particularly  from  that  of  com- 
posing, until  the  impulse  became  so  strong  within  him  that 
he  thought  it  more  prejudicial  to  suppress  by  force  than  to 
give  some  form  to  the  vivid  ideas  that  floated  across  his  fancy ; 
and  thus  with  unforced  readiness  flowed  from  his  pen  the  last 
part  yet  wanting  to  complete  the  fourth  pianoforte  trio  which 
he  had  already  begun  in  Cassel;  and  it  being  as  it  were  the 
bubbling  and  overflow  of  the  gaiety  of  his  spirits,  he  was  ac- 
customed to  call  it  by  way  of  souvenir  of  the  benefit  he  derived 
from  the  bubbling  springs  of  Carlsbad,  uDer  Sprudelsatz”  (The 
bubble  piece).  As  however  there  was  no  good  player  on 
the  violincello  in  Carlsbad,  he  thought  he  should  be  obliged 
to  wait  till  his  return  to  Cassel  for  a thorough  perform- 
ance of  the  trio;  but  during  a short  stay  at  Meiningen 
on  his  return  journey,  Edward  Grand,  the  already  frequently 
mentioned  music  director,  with  incredible  diligence  took  all 
the  requisite  measures  for  getting  up  a quartet  party  on  the 
same  evening  in  his  house,  where  Spohr  had  the  unexpected 
opportunity  of  hearing  his  trio,  with  the  aid  of  his  wife  and  the 
distinguished  violincellist  Metener,  for  the  first  time,  which 
afforded  also  no  little  delight  to  the  company  present.  As  it 
also  soon  became  a favorite  piece  with  the  musical  circles  of 
Cassel,  Spohr  kept  it  by  him  for  a long  time  in  manuscript, 
before  he  sent  it  to  his  publisher,  Schuberth,  who  looked  forward 
with  truly  restless  impatience  to  the  appearance  of  this  trio 
of  Spohr' s in  order  to  make  it  public.  (Op.  135.) 


Digitized  by  Google 


282 


In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1847  the  day  drew  near  at 
length,  the  celebration  of  which  had  for  weeks  beforehand  set 
the  natives  of  Cassel  on  the  tip-toe  of  pleasurable  expectation, 
that,  namely,  of  his  twenty -fifth  year’s  jubilee  as  director 
at  the  court  theatre  of  Cassel.  The  lively  interest  taken  far 
and  near  in  this  festival  evinced  itself  in  so  many  demon- 
strations of  attachment  and  esteem  towards  the  individual 
thus  honoured,  that  a published  account  of  them  written  by 
Dr.  Frederick  Oetker,  the  proceeds  of  which  were  devoted  to 
charitable  purposes,  formed  a complete  pamphlet,  for  a short 
extract  from  which  we  have  alone  room  here: 

“Early  on  the  morning  of  the  20th.  January,  the  recipient 
of  the  day’s  honours  was  awakened  from  his  slumbers  by  a 
serenade  played  by  his  pupils  Jean  Bott  and  A . Malibran , 
who,  assisted  by  musicians  of  the  court  orchestra,  performed  his 
second  double  quartet.  This  was  followed  by  a long  successsion 
of  congratulatory  visits  from  relatives,  friends,  pupils,  and 
admirers  of  all  classes  and  from  every  quarter,  who  came  to  ex- 
press their  wishes  for  his  health  and  happiness.  From  the  society 
of  St.  Cecilia  there  came  a well  selected  deputation,  composed 
of  representatives  of  soprani,  alti,  tenori  and  bass,  in  whose 
name  the  secretary  Knyrim , the  only  remaining  original 
member,  expressed  in  hearty  words  their  grateful  acknowledge- 
ment of  the  many  services  rendered  to  art,  and  to  the  society 
in  particular,  by  the  honoured  jubilant.  These  were  succeeded 
by  the  postmaster-general  Nebelthau,  as  member  of  the  council 
of  state,  who  presented  Spohr  a congratulatory  address  in 
writing  from  the  chief  magistrate  of  Cassel,  and  then  the 
music  director  from  Gottingen,  Mr.  Wehner , delivered  a wreath 
of  laurel  from  that  place,  accompanied  with  a congratula- 
tory poem,  and  with  a diploma  nominating  Spohr  an  honorary 
member  of  the  singing  association  of  Gottingen.  Accompanied 
with  a most  obliging  letter  the  King  of  Prussia  sent  to  him 
the  order  of  the  red  eagle,  third  class,  and  the  Prince,  who 
had  some  years  before  already  conferred  upon  him  the  Hessian 
order  of  the  lion,  forwarded  to  him  upon  this  occasion  a 


Digitized  by 


Google 


283 


further  mark  of  distinction , nominating  him  music  director- 
general,  with  grant  of  official  character  at  court.  The  rescript 
of  this  patent  was  personally  handed  to  Spohr  by  the  cham- 
berlain von  Heeringen,  who  the  previous  year  had  been  nom- 
inated intendant-general  of  the  court  theatre,  in  order  at 
the  same  time  to  express  both  his  good  wishes  and  the  high 
esteem  he  felt  for  Spohr  as  a man  and  as  an  artist,  which 
he  moreover  proved  upon  this  occasion  by  the  splendid  festal 
performances  he  had  ordered  at  the  theatre  in  celebration  of 
this  day.  This  consisted  in  a musical-dramatic  production  “of 
scenically  connected  music-pieces  from  the  operas  of  Spohr," 
the  tickets  of  admission  to  which,  besides  those  to  the  extra 
standing  places,  had  been  issued  many  days  before,  so  that  the 
house  was  actually  crammed.  When  Spohr  made  his  appearance 
in  the  box  in  the  first  tier,  which  had  been  appropriated  to 
him  and  his  family,  he  was  received  with  the  most  tumultuous 
demonstrations  of  joy,  with  which  the  strains  of  his  overture 
to  the  opera  of  “Alruna”  soon  mingled.  This  was  followed 
by  a tableau  from  “Zemira  and  Azor,”  representing  the  union 
of  the  lovers.  After  the  conclusion  of  this  tableau,  as  also 
after  each  of  the  following  scenes  from  Spohr' s operas:  “Ze- 
mira”,  “Zweikampf,”  “Jessonda,”  “Berggeist,”  “Pietro  von 
Abano,”  “Alchymist,”  and  “Kreuzfahrer,”  the  fairy  with  her 
golden  magic  wand  came  upon  the  stage  and  introduced  the 
succeeding  scene  each  time  with  appropriate  verses.  After 
each  piece  of  music  the  outburst  of  applause  was  repeated, 
and  at  its  conclusion  redoubled  in  energy,  to  be  again  resumed 
with  equal  perseverance  as  in  succession  the  two  overtures  to  the 
“Mountain  Sprite”  and  to  “Faust”  were  executed  with  remarkable 
precision  under  the  direction  of  Sochmann  the  military  band- 
master. Then  followed  an  appropriately  conceived  festal- 
play  called  “Die  Huldigung”  (The  Homage).  The  scene  re- 
presented a handsome  park  ornamented  with  statues,  vases 
and  garlands;  in  the  back  ground  a modest  dwelling,  but 
richly  decorated  with  garlands  of  flowers:  The  house,  in  which 
Spohr  was  horn,  in  Brunswick.  Gardeners  and  maidens  are 


Digitized  by  LjOOQle 


284 


busied  in  decorating  the  garden;  to  their  question  as  to  the 
purpose  and  occasion  of  the  festival  the  steward  informs  them, 
telling  them  the  name  of  the  honoured  jubilant,  and  in  citing 
his  works  speaks  also  of  ‘Die  letzten  Dinge’  and  4Der  Fall 
Babylons.’ 

“All  now  set  up  a shout  of  joy,  and  from  every  part  of 
the  house  rang  the  enthusiastic  cheers  of  the  excited  assembly. 
Upon  this  the  orchestra  struck  up  the  polonaise  in  “Faust,” 
while  the  committee  of  the  fete  waited  on  Spohr  to  conduct 
him  to  a throne  of  flowers,  where  he  was  again  greeted  with 
a poetical  address,  and  a crown  of  laurel  placed  upon  his 
head  “as  Apollo’s  favoured  son,”  amid  the  joyful  vivats  of 
the  public.  After  the  fete  at  the  theatre  was  over,  and 
he  proceeded  to  partake  of  a family  supper  at  the  house  of 
his  son-in-law  Wolff,  he  received  late  in  the  evening  a brilliant 
serenade  from  the  members  of  the  lyrical  association,  who  had 
assembled  before  the  house  by  the  light  of  numerous  coloured 
lamps.  The  singing  being  concluded  they  then  sent  up  a de- 
putation to  present  the  diploma  of  an  honorary  member  of 
the  society  to  the  jubilant.  Thus  terminated  this  eventful  day, 
but  not  the  festivities;  for  the  following  day  brought  further 
congratulatory  addresses  in  prosa  and  verse  with  honours  of 
every  kind,  among  which  the  presentation  of  the  freedom  of  the 
city  from  the  chief  magistrate  of  Cassel,  and  as  also  worthy 
of  mention,  the  gift  of  a costly  silver  vase  from  the  joint 
members  of  the  orchestra  and  theatrical  company,  presented 
by  the  committee  of  the  festival.” 

On  the  twenty-second  of  January  another  grand  fete  took 
place,  given  as  a surprise  to  their  friend  and  master  by  the 
members  of  the  quartet  circle,  so  frequently  adverted  to. 
After  Spohr  had  been  conducted  with  great  ceremony  into  the 
presence  of  the  company,  composed  of  about  seventy  persons, 
a congratulatory  poem  composed  by  Dr.  Oetker  was  read. 

The  musical  part  of  the  fete  which  now  followed  consisted 
of  Spohr's  third  double  quartet,  executed  under  the  direction  of 
his  pupil  Jean  Bott\  of  two  of  his  incomparable  songs  with 


Digitized  by  foozle 


285 


clarinet  accompaniment,  snng  by  a distinguished  dilettante ; and 
the  pianoforte  quintet  with  wind-instrument  accompaniment. 
After  the  conclusion  of  these  extremely  successful  performances, 
all  adjourned  in  the  best  spirits  to  the  supper-room,  where, 
seasoned  with  toasts  both  of  earnest  and  mirthful  import,  the 
happy  evening  was  brought  to  a close  in  an  appropriate 
manner. 

The  account  of  this  jubilee  published  shortly  after  by 
Fr.  Oetker  gave  occasion  at  the  same  time  to  Spohr  for  the 
commencement  of  his  autobiography.  The  author  of  that 
pamphlet  having  at  the  same  time  expressed  the  intention  of 
following  it  up  with  a detailed  account  of  his  life,  requested 
Spohr  to  furnish  him  first  with  the  necessary  notes;  but  he 
himself,  while  making  the  necessary  sketch  of  it,  took  so  much 
pleasure  in  recalling  the  varied  events  of  each  year  as  they 
presented  themselves  to  his  memory,  that  he  conceived  the 
idea  of  preferring  to  undertake  its  full  detail  himself.*  With 
a lively  interest  he  now  immediately  set  himself  to  this  work, 
which  nevertheless  proceeded  but  slowly,  when  the  impulse 
for  musical  composition  assumed  again  its  mastery.  He 
then  first  wrote  six  pieces  de  salon  for  violin  and  piano- 
forte, distinguished  by  the  titles : Barcarole , Scherzo , Sarabande, 
Siciliano , Air  varie  and  Mazurka , collected  in  one  volume  as 
Op.  135,  published  by  J . Schuberth;  these  were  followed  by 
his  fourth  double  quartet,  and  some  months  later,  at  the  ex- 
press wish  of  the  Philharmonic  Society  of  London,  by  the  eighth 
symphony  (G  minor) , which  appeared  at  Leipzic  as  Op.  137 
(Peters),  in  score  and  arranged  for  four  hands  for  the  pianoforte. 


* From  this  somewhat  accidental  origin  of  Spohr’ 8 autobiography  it 
may  be  readily  inferred,  that  it  contains  nothing  moro  than  a faithful 
picture  of  his  eventful  life,  interesting  to  the  majority  of  those  who  take 
a warm  interest  in  his  musical  compositions ; and  that  it  was  not  his  in- 
tention in  any  manner  to  have  it  considered  in  the  light  of  a contribution 
to  the  history  of  art,  nor  as  a critical  opinion  of  the  works  of  his  col- 
leagues in  art,  which  has  been  here  and  there  erroneously  expected  from 
this  biography. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


Subsequently  also,  Spohr' s activity  was  unusually  taxed 
at  the  theatre,  as  he  was  required  for  the  approaching  Whit- 
suntide holidays  to  prepare  not  only  the  usual  opera  but  also  (an 
exceptional  case)  a grand  concert,  in  which  among  other  things 
his  double  symphony  and  his  first  concertante  were  executed 
by  himself  and  his  pupil  Jean  Bott . For  Whitmonday  a new 
opera,  “Arria,”  by  Hugo  Stable , had  been  selected,  which  as 
the  maiden-work  of  a young  composer  who  had  grown  up  amid 
them  had  greatly  awakened  the  interest  of  all  lovers  of  music 
in  Cassel.  Already  when  a boy  the  young  musician  had  ex- 
hibited such  prominent  talent,  that  Spohr  was  induced,  at  the 
wish  of  his  father,  Major  Stable  of  Cassel,  to  take  him  as  a 
pupil  in  composition.  With  constantly  increasing  interest  he 
now  watched  the  progress  of  his  talented  pupil,  who,  already 
a good  pianist,  soon  tried  his  hand  at  greater  pianoforte-com- 
positions, among  which  a quartet  in  A major  (Op.  1,  published 
by  Schuberth ) is  especially  remarkable  as  a success.  En- 
couraged by  this,  he  then,  though  not  yet  one  and  twenty  years 
of  age,  ventured  under  Spohr' s guidance  upon  the  composition 
of  music  to  the  opera  above  named,  written  by  his  friend  Jac . 
Hofmeister , and  that  so  fully  satisfied  Spohr , that  upon  his 
pressing  recommendation  its  performance  was  determined  upon 
and  soon  put  in  process  of  execution.  Though  Spohr  ex- 
perienced real  satisfaction  at  the  highly  favourable  reception 
this  opera  met  with  from  the  public,  and  looked  forward 
hopefully  to  a brilliant  future  for  the  young  composer,  this 
first  triumph  was  unhappily  his  last ; for  after  the  lapse  of  a 
year,  he  was  seized  with  an  inflammatory  fever,  which  arrested 
his  career  of  promise  by  an  early  death! 

After  Spohr  had  several  times  deferred  his  last  visit  to 
England  to  direct  according  to  invitation  the  performance  of 
some  of  his  works,  he  at  length  resolved  in  the  summer  of  1847, 
to  yield  once  more  to  the  reiterated  invitations  he  had  received, 
and  to  direct  the  three  grand  concerts,  in  which  the  Sacred 
Harmonic  Society  proposed  to  give  the  whole  of  his  sacred 
pieces  — oratorios,  psalms,  &c.  At  the  commencement  of  the 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


287 


theatrical  vacation  he  therefore  set  out,  accompanied  on  the 
journey  to  England  by  his  wife  and  sister-in-law,  and 
this  time  by  way  of  the  interesting  cities  of  Brussel  and 
Ghent  to  Ostend,  where  he  proposed  to  embark.  A letter 
written  home  adverts  as  follows  to  their  stay  in  Ghent:  “On 
our  way  we  had  been  informed  that  upon  the  very  day  of  our 
arrival  a grand  singing  festival  was  to  take  place,  of  the  united 
Flemish  and  German  lyrical  societies ; but  as  we  did  not  arrive 
here  before  7 o’clock  in  the  evening,  some  time  after  the  chief 
part  of  the  concert  had  begun , we  thought  to  avail  ourselves 
of  the  fine  summer  evening  to  take  a walk  through  the  town, 
which  we  found  large  and  handsome  beyond  our  expectation. 
Scarcely  however  had  we  proceeded  above  a hundred  yards 
when  Spohr  was  recognised  by  some  gentlemen,  who  hastened 
towards  him  with  the  greatest  surprise,  and  compelled  us  al- 
most by  foce  to  go  with  them  and  hear  the  second  part  of 
the  concert , the  first  part  being  just  finished.  In  this 
manner  we  were  all  three  hurried  into  a fine  building,  the 
‘Palais  de  Justice’  and  stood  suddenly  in  the  immense  hall 
filled  with  several  thousand  persons,  when  at  the  same  moment 
one  of  the  gentlemen  who  brought  us  in,  a member  of  the 
committee  of  the  festival,  with  a loud  voice  called  out:  ‘Mes- 
sieurs, le  grand  compositeur  Spohr  vient  d’arriver  dans  notre 
ville,  levoici!’  At  this  announcement  the  whole  assembly  rose 
from  their  seats,  and  clapping  their  hands  cried:  ‘Vive  Spohr , 
le  grand  Spohr!'  and  a perfect  shower  of  flowers  in  the  shape 
of  bouquets  large  and  small  were  showered  upon  him  from  all 
sides.  It  was  long  before  the  tumultuous  applause  ceased; 
meanwhile  seats  were  yielded  to  us  in  the  best  places,  and 
there  we  sat  somewhat  out  of  countenance  in  our  dusty  tra- 
velling costume  in  the  midst  of  handsomely  dressed  ladies. 
But  the  whole  scene,  from  its  very  unexpectedness,  had  some- 
ting  extremely  original  and  almost  overpowering  about  it.  We 
then  heard,  with  the  rest,  the  second  part  of  the  concert,  in 
which  the  different  lyrical  associations  sung  in  part  with,  and 
partly  without,  orchestral  accompaniment.  They  all  met  with  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


288 


most  lively  applause,  which  their  execution  in  reality  also 
deserved. 

“It  lasted  until  past  9 o’clock,  and  then  a crowd  of  persons 
pressed  forward  to  salute  Spohr  and  to  speak  to  him,  so  that 
it  was  late  enough  before  we  got  home  to  supper,  and  retired 
to  rest.  But  this  was  again  to  be  of  short  duration,  for 
between  11  and  12  o’clock  we  heard  all  manner  of  noises 
and  preparations  for  a grand  serenade,  which  the  Ghent  society 
‘Des  M61omanes’  had  resolved  upon  giving  to  Spohr . Nolens 
volens  he  was  obliged  to  get  out  of  bed  and  dress  anew  not 
only  in  acknowledgement  of  the  fine  music  and  tremendous 
vivats  of  the  assembled  crowd,  but  also  to  receive  a deputation, 
which  at  the  solemn  midnight  hour  announced  to  him  his 
nomination  as  honorary  member  of  the  society,”  &c. 

Upon  Spohr’s  arrival  in  London  he  and  his  travelling 
companions  were  again  hospitably  received  in  the  friendly 
family  of  Professor  Taylor , and  for  them  now  began  in  every 
respect  a period  of  great  enjoyment.  The  oratorio  performances 
in  Exeter-Hall  appointed  for  every  Friday,  went  off  with  their 
usual  finished  perfection;  but  the  programme  that  had  been 
previously  determined  upon  had  suffered  from  the  alteration, 
that  in  place  of  the  “Calvary,”  which  it  was  feared  would 
here  also  excite  objection  on  the  part  of  the  clergy,  a second 
performance  of  the  “Fall  of  Babylon”  was  announced;  while  in 
the  third  concert,  as  it  had  been  previously  determined,  “Die 
letzten  Dinge,”  the  “Lord’s  Prayer,”  and  Spohr* s recently 
composed  84th.  Psalm  after  Milton's  metrical  translation, 
were  given.  The  enthusiasm  at  all  the  three  concerts,  which 
was  scarcely  susceptible  of  increase  on  all  that  had  previously 
been  shewn,  was  evinced  this  time  more  particularly  by  rap- 
turous encores  of  a great  number  of  choruses  and  solo  pieces. 
The  intervening  days  were  passed  in  a no  less  satisfactory 
manner,  in  which  all  emulated  in  affording  some  enjoyment, 
or  in  testifying  their  respect  for  Spohr  in  various  ways.  In 
varied  and  constant  interchange,  invitations,  festivities,  pro- 
menades and  railway  excursions  succeeded  each  other,  one  of 


Digitized  by 


Google 


289 


which  extended  as  far  as  70  English  miles,  to  the  celebrated 
university  city  of  Cambridge,  with  its  grand  and  peculiar  style 
of  architecture ; and  another  to  the  city  of  Ely,  remarkable  for  its 
situation  upon  a beautiful  and  fruitful  hill  rising  from  the  midst 
of  a low  moorland,  and  yet  more  for  its  beautiful  cathedral, 
considered  one  of  the  finest  specimens  of  Gothic  architecture 
in  England.  In  this,  as  a remains  of  its  former  splendour,  the 
finest  ecclesiastical  psalmody  is  still  chanted  during  divine 
service  by  sixteen  singers  especially  maintained  for  that  purpose, 
and  seldom  in  that  solitary  place  could  perhaps  be  found 
hearers  so  devoutly  attentive  and  edified  as  were  Spohr  and 
his  travelling  companions. 

In  pleasant  reunions  with  the  Horsley , Benedict  and  Taylor 
families,  his  most  intimately  known  friends,  Spohr  especially 
passed  many  happy  hours,  in  whose  circles  allied  so  intimately 
to  art  and  artists,  fine  music  was  a never -failing  enjoyment, 
and  in  which  frequently,  to  the  delight  of  his  hearers,  Spohr 
contributed  his  personal  aid.  The  more  decidedly  however, 
did  he  decline  every  request  to  perform  in  public,  and  in  one 
exceptional  instance  only  consented  to  assist  at  a concert 
given  in  his  honour  by  the  Beethoven  quartet  society.  The 
programme  of  this  concert , which  displayed  the  heading 
“Homage  to  Spohr”  comprised  however  on  this  occasion  nothing 
of  Beethoven , and  three  compositions  of  Spohr  only,  selected 
from  different  periods  of  his  life,  viz:  1st.  A quartet  (G  minor), 
a production  of  his  early  youth;  2dly.  A duet  composed  about 
20  years  later,  played  by  Joachim  and  Sainton  in  a masterly 
manner,  and  3rdly.  The  third  double  quartet  (E  minor),  in 
which  Spohr  took  the  first  violin  part,  and  by  his  play  and  by 
the  whole  composition,  the  first  “number”  of  which  alone  had 
kindled  the  admiration  of  the  public,  drew  down  a very  storm 
of  applause.  The  newspapers  adverted  in  terms  of  the  highest 
praise  to  the  selection  of  the  three  compositions  and  to  their 
separate  beauties.  Upon  this  occasion,  respecting  the  duets 
the  “Times”  said  as  follows:  “These  duets  for  two  violins  belong 
to  the  greatest  productions  of  Spohr9s  richly  inventive  genius: 

SFOHB,  Autobiography.  II.  jg 


Digitized  by 


Google 


290 


Out  of  seemingly  small  materials  the  great  composer  has 
achieved  harmonic  effects  scarcely  inferior  in  richness  and 
fullness  to  the  quartet.  The  duet  in  E flat  is  positively  over- 
flowing with  beauties  of  melody  and  counterpoint,  a perfect 
masterpiece.”  . . . And  added  further  on:  “The  double  quartet 
in  E minor  is  one  of  Spohr’s  most  surpassingly  rich  com- 
positions. . . . Every  separate  theme  bears  the  stamp  of 
genius,  and  is  worked  out  with  a perfection  of  finish  that 
displays  the  highest  degree  of  intelligence.”  ...  “If  Spohr 
had  never  written  anything  else,  his  fame  would  have  been 
established  by  this  work  alone,  as  one  of  the  greatest  com- 
posers in  the  world.”  . . . “Spohr  plays  now  but  seldom  in 
public,  but  both  musicians,  and  the  general  public  alike,  eagerly 
seize  the  rare  opportunity  of  hearing  the  greatest  violinist  of  the 
present  day.  His  style  is  a pattern  of  purity  and  taste.  . . . 
He  not  alone  produces  difficulties  of  every  kind,  and  handles 
them  with  the  ease  of  mere  play  toys,  — but  in  his  execution 
displays  moreover  the  full  energy  and  inspiration  of  youth.”  . . . 

The  end  of  the  vacation  was  now  rapidly  drawing*  near, 
and  with  it  once  more  the  hour  of  parting;  and  on  the  last 
days  of  his  sojourn  so  manifold  were  the  demands  made  upon 
his  time  and  attention  that  all  his  habitual  calm  self  posses- 
sion was  taxed  to  the  utmost.  With  heart  and  mind  im- 
pressed with  happy  and  elevating  reminiscences  he  returned 
to  his  native  country,  where  with  his  accustomed  cheerfulness 
and  zeal  he  was  soon  re-engaged  in  the  performance  of  the 
duties  of  his  post. 

In  the  beginning  of  November  he  was  plunged  into  grief 
by  the  sudden  intelligence  of  the  death  of  his  friend  Men - 
delssohn , deeply  lamenting  whose  loss  both  as  a man  and  a 
musician,  he  expressed  himself  as  follows  in  a letter  to  M. 
Hauptmann:  “What  might  Mendelssohn  in  the  full  maturity  of 
his  genius  not  have  written,  had  fate  permitted  him  a longer 
life!  For  his  delicate  frame  the  mental  exertion  was  too  great 
and  therefore  destructive  1 His  loss  to  art  is  much  to  be  lamented, 
for  he  was  the  most  gifted  of  then  living  composers,  and  his 


Digitized  by  Google 


291 


efforts  in  art  were  of  the  noblest!”  — His  next  thought  was 
to  institute  a festival  in  memoriam  of  the  too  early  departed 
one,  but  as  he  received  for  answer  to  his  proposal  to  that 
effect,  from  the  intendant  of  the  court  theatre,  that:  “the 
proposed  festival  in  memory  of  the  deceased  could  not  be 
permitted  at  the  concerts  of  the  court. theatre,  as  it  did  not 
find  approval  in  the  highest  quarters,”  he  determined  to  give 
it  on  a smaller  scale  at  a private  concert  in  celebration  of 
the  25th.  anniversary  of  the  St.  Cecilia  society  on  the  22nd. 
November,  and  upon  the  occasion  to  inaugurate  the  fete  with 
a poem  composed  for  the  occasion  with  a chorus  from  Men- 
delssohn's “Paulus.”  But  after  everything  had  been  arranged 
for  the  best  and  the  grand  rehearsal  been  held,  intelligence 
was  suddenly  received  of  the  dangerous  illness  of  the  Elector 
Wilhelm  H.,  who  resided  in  Frankfort,  which  was  followed 
by  that  of  his  death,  and  the  order  for  a general  mourning 
throughout  the  Electorate  and  a desistance  from  every  kind 
of  music  on  the  following  days.  Hereupon,  after  a delay  of  a 
month,  the  performance  of  the  projected  festival  was  again 
about  to  take  place,  and  Spohr  had  once  more  fixed  the  day 
for  it,  when  death  once  more  intervened  — this  time  afflicting 
his  own  family  with  a very  painful  loss.  On  the  18th.  De- 
cember Spohr’s  mother-in-law  was  seized  with  illness,  and 
after  a few  days’  suffering  was  snatched  from  the  disconsolate 
family  to  which  she  had  been  bound  by  ties  of  the  tenderest 
affection.  The  Christmas  holidays,  which  had  usually  been 
with  them  a period  of  happy  festivity,  were  now  changed 
to  days  of  gloom  and  mourning,  and  the  more  so  from  the 
circumstance  that  Mr.  Pfeiffer  (father)  was  laid  on  a sick-bed  by 
the  unexpected  blow,  and  the  happy  reunion  in  the  paternal 
house,  where  Spohr  always  felt  so  happy,  and  so  well  knew 
how  to  make  others  so,  seemed  to  be  interrupted  for  a long 
time,  if  not  for  ever!  The  subsequent  weeks  passed  amid 
cares  and  anxieties,  and  not  until  his  father-in-law’s  convales- 
cence could  Spohr  think  of  celebrating  the  long -prepared -for 
festival. 

19* 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


292 


The  programme  was  so  arranged,  that  it  presented  in 
chronological  order  twelve  music  pieces  of  Bach , Handel , 
Haydn , Mozart , Beethoven , Hauptmann , Mendelssohn  and 
Spohr,  as  specimens  of  the  style  of  each  of  those  masters, 
to  whose  works  the  St.  Cecilia  society  during  its  existence  of 
twenty-five  years  had  especially  devoted  its  efforts.  After  the 
last  song  piece  but  one:  4‘Wir  preisen  selig  die”  &c.,  from 
“Paulus,”  a poem  was  recited,  entitled:  Feeling  of  sorrow  upon 
the  early  death  of  Felix  Mendelssohn-Bartholdy. 

This  was  followed  by  the  presentation  of  a double 
breast-pin  set  with  diamonds,  accompanied  with  a poetical 
address  to  Spohr  — the  subject  represented  by  the  pin  being 
a violin,  and  bass-clef.  A 4 'Hymn  to  Spohr,'’  composed  by 
H.  Stable , was  then  sung;  and  in  conclusion,  at  the  banquet 
which  followed,  a discourse  was  delivered  relative  to  the 
origin  and  services  of  the  society  for  the  prosperity  of  which 
the  speaker  himself  (Mr.  Weinrich),  in  the  triple  character 
of  singer,  librarian,  and  treasurer,  had  laboured  with  unwearied 
zeal  for  many  years. 

In  1848,  shortly  after  the  outbreak  of  the  disturbances 
in  France,  Spohr , somewhat  under  the  influence  of  ideas  of 
liberty,  &c.,  composed  his  sextet  for  two  violins,  two  viols  and  two 
violincellos  (Op.  140,  published  by  C.  Luckhardt  of  Cassel),  on 
making  entry  of  which  in  the  list  of  his  compositions,  he  ap- 
pended the  words : ‘ Written  in  March  and  April,  at  the  time 
of  the  glorious  revolution  of  the  peoples  for  the  liberty,  unity 
and  grandeur  of  Germany.”  And  this  composition,  so  rich  in 
freshness  of  melodies,  in  genuine  mtherial  harmony,  that  scarcely 
any  other  of  Spohr’s  works  surpasses  it,  furnishes  an  eloquent 
testimony  to  the  state  of  his  feelings  and  his  aspirations,  which, 
soaring  above  the  storms  of  the  present,  speak  only  of  peace, 
hope  and  concord,  as  in  spirit  he  beheld  them  spring  out  of 
the  momentary  struggles.  Satisfied  as  Spohr  might  feel  with 
this  composition  — the  first  since  the  dawning  of  the  new 
sera  upon  Germany  — he  nevertheless  for  some  time  wholly 
abandoned  all  further  composition,  feeling,  as  he  complained 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


293 


in  a letter  to  his  friend  Hauptmann,  that  “the  excitement  of 
politics  and  the  constant  reading  of  the  newspapers  incapacitated 
him  from  giving  his  attention  to  any  serious  and  quiet  study.” 

On  the  6th.  August  a grand  popular  festival  took  place 
in  Cassel,  which  kept  the  whole  of  the  inhabitants  in  a state 
of  joyous  mobility  for  the  day.  It  commenced  early  in  the 
morning,  with  the  public  recognition  of  the  imperial  adminis- 
trator by  the  garrison  assembled  upon  the  “Forst.”  This  was 
followed  by  the  consecration  and  presentation  of  colours  to 
the  newly-formed  corps  of  body-guards,  combined  with  a grand 
church  service  in  the  presence  of  the  Electoral-  family  upon 
the  Bowling-green  in  the  Karlsaue,  and  in  the  afternoon  there 
was  a people’s  festival,  in  which  the  whole  population  of  Cassel 
— a mixed  troop  of  all  classes  — flocked  to  the  Aue,  either 
as  participators  in , or  spectators  of,  the  popular  games, 
the  dancing  and  the  music.  Towards  evening,  to  the  surprise 
of  everybody  the  Elector,  in  plain  black  dress-coat,  was 
seen  threading  his  way  among  the  joyous  crowd,  with  looks 
expressive  of  the  cheerful  interest  with  which  he  acknowledged 
the  cheers  of  the  people  who  thronged  every  part  of  the  park. 
The  festivities  of  the  day  were  terminated  by  a concert  under 
Spohr's  direction,  executed  by  the  singers  and  members  of  the 
choral  societies  of  Cassel  in  front  of  the  orangery,  at  which 
also  the  Elector  appeared,  and  after  a lengthened  conversation 
with  Spohr,  asked  him  expressly  for  the  song  “Was  ist  des 
Deutschen  Vaterland.” 

In  June  1849  Spohr  set  out  for  Carlsbad,  and  stopped 
on  his  way  thither  a few  days  at  Leipzic,  where  in  the 
circle  of  his  musical  friends , he  again  passed  many  happy 
hours  devoted  to  his  noble  art.  On  the  first  evening,  at  the 
house  of  his  friend  Mr.  Vogt , two  of  his  latest  and  as  yet  un- 
published compositions — the  fourth  double  quartet  (G  minor) 
and  the  but  recently  finished  31st.  quartet  (C  major)  — both  oi 
which  were  subsequently  published  by  C.  Luckhardt  in  Cassel 
as  Op.  136  and  141.  The  double  quartet  was  received  more 
especially  with  such  warm  admiration,  that  Spohr  gratified 


Digitized  by  foozle 


294 


the  wish  expressed  by  several  of  his  auditors  to  repeat  it 
once  more  on  the  following  day  at  the  conservatory  before  a 
large  circle,  among  whom  were  the  teachers  and  pupils  of  that 
institution.  On  the  last  evening,  his  old  friend  Moscheles 
prepared  for  him  a brilliant  fete,  and  embellished  the  musical 
part  of  it  by  his  own  masterly  performance  of  Spohr's  first 
trio,  and  his  pianoforte  quintet  with  wind  instruments,  after 
which  the  strains  of  a choral  song,  “Honour  to  Spohr,"  were 
suddenly  heard  from  the  garden  in  front  of  the  house,  and 
some  of  his  four-part  songs,  some  of  Mendelssohn's  and  some 
of  Hauptmann's , were  executed  in  a most  effective  manner. 

The  now  ensuing  stay  in  Carlsbad,  extending  to  several 
weeks,  was  upon  this  occasion  particularly  pleasant  in  many 
respects.  * In  the  intercourse  with  several  distinguished  men 
well  known  for  their  public  activity,  Spohr  took  great  pleasure. 
Among  these  especially  were  Hanscmann  of  Berlin  and  Simson 
of  Konigsberg,  to  the  latter  of  whom,  from  the  thorough  com- 
munity of  sentiment  in  their  mutual  political  creed,  he  was 
especially  attracted.  As  both  men  evinced  at  the  same  time 
a warm  love  of  music , they , together  with  their  fami- 
lies were  soon  admitted  into  the  small  circle  of  the 
elect  who  had  the  entree  to  the  musical  performances  of 
Spohr  and  his  wife.  With  these  and  other  charming  families 
the  afternoons  were  then  passed  in  excursions  on  all  sides  into 
the  beautiful  environs,  in  which  Spohr , although  long  since  well 
acquainted  with  every  spot,  always  experienced  a new  delight 
and  one  equally  shared  by  his  wife. 

From  his  stay  in  Carlsbad  Spohr  also  experienced  the 
most  desirable  benefit  to  his  health,  resulting  in  so  com- 
plete and  permanent  a relief  to  the  liver  complaint  which  had 
recurred  at  previous  frequent  intervals,  that,  grateful  as  he 
felt  for  the  pleasant  and  health-restoring  time  he  had  passed 
there,  he  had  now  no  further  necessity  to  resort  to  the 
wonderful  efficacity  of  its  waters. 

Strengthened  and  refreshed  in  body  and  mind,  he  returned 
to  Cassel,  and  shortly  afterwards  began  the  composition  of  his 


Digitized  by  Google 


295 


fifth  pianoforte  trio  (C  minor , Op.  141,  published  by  Schuberth 
in  Hamburg);  which  was  followed  by  three  duets  for  two 
soprani,  published  by  Peters  of  Leipzic,  which  for  their  sweetly 
expressive  melodies  and  their  ease  of  performance,  like  those 
which  had  previously  appeared  from  the  pen  of  Mendels$ohny 
soon  became  favorite  pieces  in  musical  circles. 

Towards  the  end  of  the  year  1849  Spohr  was  afflicted 
by  a heavy  sorrow,  in  the  sudden  illness  that  befell  his  wife 
the  day  after  Christmas  Day,  and  which  increased  so  much  in 
severity  as  to  imperil  her  life  at  the  entry  of  the  new  year. 
At  length,  however,  her  good  and  unimpaired  constitution, 
aided  by  the  most  unremitting  care,  overcame  her  malady, 
and  Spohr  hailed  once  more  with  delight  the  day  when  she 
could  again  resume  her  accustomed  seat  by  his  side  at  the 
dinner- table.  But  on  the  next  day  (January  22)  an  un- 
toward accident  befell  himself.  While  on  his  usual  daily  way 
to  the  theatre  rehearsal,  a sharp  unexpected  frost  having  set  in 
during  the  night,  he  slipped,  and  fell  with  such  violence  as  to 
inflict  a very  severe  blow  on  his  head,  from  the  consequence  of 
which  the  unremitting  care  of  his  experienced  medicial  attendant 
Dr.  Harnier  did  not  re-establish  him  till  after  the  lapse  of 
several  weeks.  Shortly  after  his  recovery,  he  wrote  his  ninth 
symphony,  “Die  Jahreszeiten”  (The  Seasons),  the  plan  of  which 
had  much  occupied  his  mind  during  his  illness,  and  as  he 
himself  complained,  “regularly  haunted  him  during  the  long 
sleepless  and  feverish  nights.”  He  gave  in  so  far  a new  form 
to  it,  that  he  divided  it  into  two  grand  themes,  with  the  de- 
signations: Parti.:  Winter,  transition  to  spring,  spring.  Part  II.: 
Summer,  transition  to  autumn,  autumn.  Although  Spohr  wrote 
the  symphony  in  the  dull  cold  days  of  winter,  the  resull  ne- 
vertheless was  just  the  least  characteristic  of  his  winterly  in- 
tentions; While  in  the  spring  theme  every  note  rings  joyous 
with  the  glad  awaking  of  nature,  — in  that  of  summer , the 
sultry  heat  is  expressed  in  tones  the  effect  of  which  is  such, 
that  the  astonished  hearer  positively  seems  to  feel  it  — and 
lastly  the  autumn , with  its  exhilarating  music  of  the  chase, 


Digitized  by 


Google 


296 


and  the  masterly,  interwoven  Rheinweinlied  (vintage  song  of  the 
Rhine)  — can  scarcely  fail  in  inspiring  the  hearer  with  the 
most  lively  enthusiasm. 

About  this  time  Spohr , with  every  lover  of  music  in  Cassel, 
experienced  great  pleasure  from  the  visit  of  a young  female 
artiste  nearly  related  to  him.  This  was  Rosalie  Spohr , the 
second  daughter  of  his  brother  William . From  early  childhood 
she  had  evinced  a passionate  love  of  music,  and  subsequently 
devoted  herself  with  unwearying  zeal  to  the  study  of  the  harp. 
Although  at  first  it  was  not  the  wish  of  her  parents  that  their 
daughter  should  perform  in  public,  yet  when  they  had  subse- 
quently become  convinced  of  her  real  artistic  talent,  they  could 
no  longer  oppose  her  ardent  wishes,  and  at  the  age  of  22 
she  proceeded,  accompanied  by  her  father,  upon  her  first  musical 
tour.  After  she  had  given  proof  of  her  abilities  in  several 
public  performances  at  Hamburg  and  Leipzic,  she  visited 
Cassel,  where  she  played  several  times  in  private  circles,  and 
at  one  concert  at  the  theatre  under  the  direction  of  Spohr , 
on  which  occasion  she  not  only  earned  the  warmest  approbation 
of  a delighted  auditory  but  a yet  more  gratifying  reward  in 
the  commendatory  words  of  her  highly-esteemed  uncle.  The 
young  musician  subsequently  achieved  many  a brilliant  triumph 
in  her  further  visits  to  the  larger  cities  of  Germany  and  Holland ; 
but  her  promising  artistic  career  was  shortly  brought  to  an 
unexpectedly  early  termination,  first  by  deaths  in  her  im- 
mediate family  circle,  and  afterwards  by  her  marriage  with 
count  Xavier  Sauerma. 

During  the  summer  vacation,  in  order  at  length  to  pay 
his  long-promised  visit  to  Breslau,  Spohr  proceeded  thither  by 
way  of  Leipzic  in  the  hope  of  hearing  Schumann's  new  opera  of 
“Genoveva;”  but  to  his  great  regret,  upon  his  arrival  there,  he 
was  informed  of  the  delays  that  had  intervened  to  defer  its 
performance,  and  was  obliged  to  content  himself  with  attend- 
ing several  rehearsals,  but  which,  on  account  of  the  frequently 
interrupting  repetitions,  could  naturally  afford  him  but  a very 
imperfect  conception  of  the  whole  work.  Although  by  no 


Digitized  by  foozle 


297 


means  an  admirer  of  the  compositions  of  Schumann  so  far 
known  to  him,  in  which  he  had  frequently  found  a want  of 
euphony  and  melodious  breadth  of  harmonies,  he  formed  a 
very  favourable  opinion  of  the  opera,  and  it  especially  pleased 
him  to  observe  that  the  same  method  of  treatment  which  he 
had  resorted  to  in  the  composition  of  the  “Crusader”  had  been 
followed,  in  that  Schumann  did  not  permit  the  unnatural  in- 
terruption of  the  action  by  a wearisome  and  constant  repe- 
tition of  words.  It  was  no  less  interesting  to  Spohr  to  become 
acquainted  with  some  of  his  larger  pianoforte  compositions, 
the  desired  opportunity  for  which  was  afforded  him  at  the 
musical  parties  given  to  him,  at  which  Mrs.  Clara  Schu- 
mann played  a trio  and  pianoforte-concerto  of  her  husband’s 
with  the  most  finished  excellence,  with  which  exception  all  the 
rest  were  compositions  of  Spohr' s , among  which  the  sextet  he 
wrote  during  the  March  revolution:  and  at  an  extra-concert  at 
the  Gewandhaus  his  newest  symphony,  “The  seasons,”  was 
performed  to  the  great  delight  of  all  who  heard  it. 

The  remainder  of  his  stay  in  Breslau,  which  was  there 
expressively  designated  as  a “fortnight-long  Spohr  festival,” 
was  a continuous  round  of  entertainments,  musical  soirees,  &c. 
The  “Neue  Oder-Zeitung”  describes  Spohr' s advent  as  “an  event, 
that  had  set  all  the  educated  classes  of  the  town  in  com- 
motion,” and  further  adds : “Everybody  crowds  forward  to  see 
the  German  master  — aH  are  anxious  to  say  that  they  have 
at  least  had  the  satisfaction  of  a personal  meeting.  There  is 
a peculiar  gratification  in  standing  opposite  to  the  man  who, 
though  his  eye  rests  upon  us  with  the  coldness  of  the  stranger, 
has  been  long  known  to  us  in  spirit  as  one  of  our  best  and 
dearest  friends  — whose  works  have  recalled  to  us  the  golden 
dreams  of  our  youth,  and  whose  noble  creations  purify  our 
souls.  All  in  Germany  who  love  music  and  who  play,  recognise 
the  master  to  whom  as  musicians  they  are  indebted  for  a 
great  part  of  their  culture,  for  many  elevating  feelings,  many 
hours  of  happiness.  Is  it  then  to  be  wondered  at  that  every 


Digitized  by 


Google 


298 


one  crowds  around  the  master  — that  all  are  ready  to  acquit 
part  of  that  debt  to  him  by  loud  and  honourable  acknowledge* 
ments?” 

His  festive  reception,  which  commenced  at  the  very  rail- 
way station,  was  followed  in  the  evening  by  a grand  serenade 
and  procession  by  torch-light,  for  which  all  the  musical  and 
choral  societies  of  Breslau  had  met  to  execute  the  choicest 
pieces  of  music,  chiefly  selected  from  Spohr' s operas,  and 
which  at  intervals  they  gave  singly,  or  executed  in  combination 
and  en  masse . At  the  grand  concert  that  took  place  under 
his  own  direction  at  the  spacious  and  handsome  Aula,  his  own 
compositions  alone  were  given : Overture  to  and  air  from  “Faust” 
the  third  symphony,  with  the  ’’Lord’s  Prayer;”  and  the  “Breslauer 
Zeitung”  designates  it  as  “a  musical  festival  singular  in  its 
kind  in  the  city  of  Breslau,  for  that  Spohr  at  the  present 
time  was  the  only  one  who  had  so  much  distinguished  himself 
in  very  kind  of  composition,  that  the  church,  the  concert  room, 
and  the  theatre,  could  equally  boast  of  his  works;  and  that 
such  a performance  by  such  united  powers  (singing  academy, 
theatrical  orchestra,  society  of  musicians,  &c.)  had  never  yet 
taken  place  there.”  At  the  different  banquets  that  were  given 
to  Spohr , his  music  in  various  ways  formed  part  of  the  enter- 
tainment, and  the  songs  that  were  written  in  his  honour  for 
the  occasion  had  been  adapted  to  appropriate  melodies  of  his, 
which  greatly  increased  their  effect -and  frequently  took  the 
company  by  surprise. 

At  the  express  wish  of  the  friends  of  music  of  Breslau, 
he  determined  to  assist  personally  at  a concert  given  in  the 
smaller  saloon  of  the  'Aula,  before  a great  number  of  musical 
amateurs  who  had  been  invited;  in  his  sextet  and  third  double 
quartet,  of  which  the  “Breslauer  Zeitung”  speaks  with  much 
enthusiasm,  and  after  dwelling  upon  the  generally  acknowledged 
specialities  of  his  play,  says  further : “that  the  master  at  his 
present  age  still  possesses  all  those  specialities;  that  he  plays 
with  the  fire  and  energy  of  a young  man,  and  throws  off  the 
greatest  difficulties  with  a power  and  boldness  that  are  aston- 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


299 


ishing  — that  it  is  a thing  quite  unusual  and  was  never  seen 
there  before.” 

On  the  part  of  the  directors  of  the  theatre  the  happy 
selection  of  Spohr's  opera  “Zemire  und  Azor”  was  made  in 
his  honour,  which,  with  its  charming  melodies,  never  fails  to 
make  the  most  pleasing  impression  on  the  public  on  the  first 
time  of  hearing;  and  with  its  music  so  truly  appropriate  to 
its  subject,  opens  to  us  as  it  were  the  bright  world  of  fairy 
land,  which  although  more  than  ever  fading  away  from  the 
materialistic  age  in  which  we  live,  yet  idealised  by  such  sweet 
sounds,  can  never  lose  its  fascination  for  the  mind.  This  effect 
was  produced  on  this  occasion  in  Breslau  also,  as  demonstrated 
by  the  brilliant  reception  with  which  it  was  welcomed,  and 
the  generally  expressed  wish  for  its  speedy  repetition  under 
Spohr’s  direction,  who  then  also  experienced  great  pleasure 
in  those  two  fine  performances  of  his  work.  — He  was  no  less 
gratified  by  the  organ  concert  given  him  by  his  fritnd  Hesse 
in  the  fine  church  of  St.  Bernard,  in  which  he  exhibited  his 
great  mastery  of  that  grand  instrument  in  every  possible 
manner.  Devoted  admirer  and  adherent  of  Spohr  as  he  was, 
he  was  still  loathe  to  part  from  him,  when  after  a fortnight 
passed  in  Breslau  he  departed  with  the  purpose  of  making  an 
excursion  in  the  Riesengebirge  with  his  wife.  As  a guide  inti- 
mate with  the  localities  Hesse  accompanied  them,  and  was  not 
a little  gratified  in  witnessing  the  feelings  of  delight  with  which 
Spohr  was  impressed  by  the  natural  beauties  of  his  Silesian 
fatherland.  Neither  was  music,  loved  music  forgotten,  for 
it  was  not  only  the  subject  of  daily  discourse,  but  in  the 
Riesengebirge  itself  the  powerful  serenades  of  the  music 
chorists  of  Warmbrunn  and  Hirschberg  greeted  their  master, 
Spohr.  — The  return  journey  to  Cassel  was  made  vid  Berlin, 
where  Spohr  found  an  invitation  from  the  conservatory,  which, 
although  but  thinly  composed  in  summer,  performed  never- 
theless a part  of  his  oratorio  “ Calvary”  and  his  psalms  with 
double  chorus  in  a brilliant  manner,  by  way  of  compensation 
both  to  themselves  and  him  for  his  inability  to  comply  with 


Digitized  by 


Google 


300 


the  invitation  they  had  given  him  almost  every  winter  to  come 
and  either  personally  direct  or  hear  his  oratorio. 

Meanwhile  the  political  state  of  Germany,  and  more  par- 
ticularly of  Hesse  greatly  grieved  Spohr , and  as  the  best  con- 
solation he  abandoned  himself  to  his  musical  studies,  the  zest 
for  which  did  not  leave  him  even  in  this  time  of  trouble  and 
sorrow.  In  the  course  of  the  months  of  October  and  November 
he  composed  his  seventh  quintet  for  stringed  instruments 
(G  minor , Op.  144,  published  by  Peters ),  and  three  songs  from 
“One  thousand  and  one  days  in  the  East,”  by  Bodenstedt 
(also  published  by  Peters ). 

It  was  in  the  summer  of  this  year  that  Spohr  experienced 
the  malice  and  chicanery  of  the  court.  He  had  intended  to 
start  the  first  day  of  his  vacation  for  a tour  in  Switzerland 
and  upper  Italy.  He  accordingly  sent  in  his  request  to  the 
Elector,  which  he  considered  a mere  pro-forma  matter.  To 
Spohr  s g!*eat  surprise  the  answer  was  in  the  negative  — no 
leave  of  absence  would  be  granted.  Hereupon  Spohr  set  off 
without  leave.  He  passed  through  the  Via  Mala , over  the 
Spliigen  to  Milan  and  Venice,  and  returned  over  the  St.  Gott- 
hard  pass  to  Lucern,  and  so  back  to  Cassel,  where  he  arrived 
before  the  vacation  had  expired.  After  a short  repose  he  availed 
himself  of  the  remaining  time  to  pay  a long-promised  visit  to 
Wehner  the  director  of  the  orchestra  at  Gottingen,  who,  conjointly 
with  all  the  lovers  of  music  at  that  place,  used  every  exertion 
to  do  honour  and  afford  gratification  to  their  esteemed  guest. 
A serenade  given  by  the  members  of  the  choral  society  on  the 
first  evening  of  his  arrival  was  followed  on  the  next  morning 
by  a musical  greeting  performed  by  the  band  of  the  regiment 
lying  at  Nordheim  in  the  immediate  neighbourhood.  At  a 
grand  concert  given  at  the  Aula  Spohr  directed  in  person  his 
symphony  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone,”  which  was  followed  by  his 
potpourri  on  themes  from  Jessonda,  performed  by  one  of  his 
most  distinguished  pupils,  Auguste  Kompel , who  when  a boy  had 
awakened  the  warmest  interest  on  the  part  of  Spohr  by  his  re- 
markable talent,  and  after  having  studied  under  him  for  several 


Digitized  by  Google 


301 


years  with  the  greatest  success,  was  first  appointed  a member  of 
the  court  orchestra  at  Cassel  and  subsequently  Kammermusicus 
and  member  of  the  royal  orchestra  at  Hanover.*  As  finale 
to  the  concert  Mendelssohn's  music  to  Athalia,  combined  with 
a melodramatic  poem,  was  executed  by  the  members  of  the 
Gottingen  choral  society;  and  thus  Spohr,  who  had  been  present 
at  its  grand  rehearsal  with  the  greatest  interest,  had  the  much 
desire^  opportunity  of  becoming  acquainted  with  the  only  one 
of  the  grander  lyrical  compositions  of  Mendelssohn  which  he 
had  not  yet  heard.  On  the  following  day  there  was  also  some 
excellent  music. 

Wehner  had  made  arrangements  for  quartet  music  at  his 
own  house,  and  previous  to  a large  dinner  party,  which  he 
gave  as  a mark  of  respect  to  Spohr , some  exceedingly  fine 
music  was  performed  with  the  most  finished  excellence,  and 
to  the  delight  of  all  present  Spohr  himself  took  part  in  his 
own  sextet.  The  dinner  was  seasoned  by  a succession  of 
appropriate  toasts  and  piquante  speeches,  the  chief  subjects 
of  which  were  music  and  politics,  and  lastly  also  “Spohr' s bold 
stroke”  — the  journey  without  leave  — was  drank  amid  the  clang 
of  classes  and  the  enthusiastic  cheers  of  the  company,  who 
highly  approved  of  the  spirit  he  had  shown.  But  the  “bold 
stroke”  was,  as  may  be  imagined,  considered  with  much  less 
approbation  in  Cassel,  and  a few  weeks  after  Spohr’s  return  he 
was  officially  required  by  the  general-intendant  to  explain  and 
justify  “his  absence  from  Cassel  without  leave.”  His  explan- 
ation was  considered  unsatisfactory,  and  he  was  condemned  to 
pay  a fine  of  550  thaler  (82  l.  10  s.).  He  went  to  law; 
but  the  end  of  it  was  that  he  paid  the  money,  which  was 
handed  over  to  the  pension  fund  instituted  by  him. 


* To  him,  as  a true  representative  of  the  Spohr  school  was  the  pre- 
ference given  over  all  the  competitors  who  bid  in  emulation  of  each  other 
and  at  very  high  prices  for  the  highly  coveted  Stradivari  violin  of  his 
honoured  master;  and  which  became  his  property  one  year  after  the 
decease  of  the  latter. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


302 


It  was  in  the  midst  of  these  troubles  that  he  wrote  a 
series  of  six  pieces  de  salon  for  violin  and  piano  and  the  32nd. 
violin  quartet  (Op.  145  and  146;  Leipzig,  Peters ). 

In  the  beginning  of  the  year  1852  Spohr  received  a visit 
from  the  director  of  the  Italian  opera  in  London,  Mr.  Gye, 
who  proposed  to  him  to  direct  there  his  opera  of  uFaust” 
during  his  summer  vacation,  and  for  that  purpose  to  write  a 
connecting  recitative  instead  of  the  dialogue  in  the  original, 
by  which  means  alone  the  urgent  wish  of  the  Queen  for  the 
performance  of  the  opera  on  the  Italian  stage  could  be  grati- 
fied. As  Spohr  at  first  considered  that  such  a change  would 
be  impossible  in  many  of  the  scenes,  he  felt  compelled  to 
decline  the  proposal;  but  they  were  not  so  easily  to  be  pacified 
in  London  by  so  unexpected  an  answer,  and  after  receiving 
several  further  pressing  letters  upon  the  subject,  Spohr  set 
himself  to  work,  and,  contrary  to  his  own  expectation,  with 
such  satisfactory  results,  that  after  its  completion  he  expressed 
himself  upon  the  subject  in  a letter  of  the  21st.  May  to 
Hauptmann  in  the  following  words:  “You  have  no  doubt  al- 
ready heard  that  at  the  express  wish  of  the  Queen  of  England 
and  of  Prince  Albert  I have  remodelled  my  opera  “Faust” 
for  the  grand  opera.  This  work  has  afforded  me  great  pleasure, 
and  agreeably  engaged  me  for  a period  of  three  months,  in 
which  I have  been  as  it  were  transported  completely  back  to 
the  happy  days  of  my  youth  in  Vienna.  At  first,  with  the 
assistance  of  my  wife,  I had  to  alter  the  dialogue  scenes  in 
such  a manner  as  to  adapt  them  to  composition.  In  doing 
this  I have  endeavoured  to  impart  more  interest  to  them  than 
they  previously  possessed,  and  to  make  elision  of  those  things 
which  from  the  first  had  displeased  me  at  many  performances 
I had  seen  of  this  opera.  I think  and  hope  that  I have  suc- 
ceeded in  both.  I had  then  to  replace  myself  as  it  were  in 
the  same  mood,  and  style  in  which  I wrote  Faust,  and  I hope 
that  I have  succeeded  in  this  also,  and  that  no  one  will  ob- 
serve a difference  of  style  between  the  old  and  the  new.  The 
opera  consists  now  of  three  acts;  the  second  concludes  with 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


303 


the  wedding  scene,  and  the  third  begins  with  a new  entr’acte, 
which  depicts  with  reminiscences  from  the  trio  of  the  torch- 
dance  and  the  witches’  music  the  night  of  debauch  passed  by 
Faust,  and  then  passes  into  a grand  recitative  by  Mephis- 
topheles,  to  which  his  air  in  JB  major  is  connected.  After  the 
disappearance  of  the  witches  a recitative  by  Faust  follows, 
blended  with  intonations  of  former  and  later  conception,  and 
hereupon  a shorter  one  between  him  and  Wagner , which  is 
succeeded  by  the  concluding  finale.  My  curiosity  is  now  in- 
tense to  hear  the  opera  in  its  new  form  I Should  nothing  come 
of  the  journey  to  London,  I hope  to  hear  it  soon  at  Weimar, 
as  Lisst  has  asked  for  it  in  its  new  form  for  the  court  theatre 
there.”  — The  new  recitatives  thus  reached  London  so  early, 
that  weeks  before  Spohr' s arrival  there  the  study  of  the  parts 
could  be  commenced;  but  at  the  first  rehearsal  he  remarked 
that  the  in  every  other  respect  so  greatly  distinguished  Italian 
singers,  were  not  all  he  could  have  desired  in  their  com- 
prehension of  this  to  them  wholly  foreign  style  of  music,  for 
which  reason  he  immediately  ordered  daily  thorough  rehearsals 
under  his  own  direction,  in  which  he  soon  had  the  satisfaction 
of  seeing  that  the  whole  of  the  singers  entered  more  and  more 
into  the  conception  and  spirit  of  his  musical  intentions,  and 
submitted  with  the  greatest  willingness  to  his  every  nod,  until 
every  thing  went  so  faultlessly  that  after  the  four  last  grand 
rehearsals  which  took  place,  and  the  lapse  of  three  weeks,  it 
was  possible  to  give  a perfect  public  performance. 

To  avoid  all  seeming  reiteration  of  the  numerous  musical 
events  and  marks  of  respect,  that  in  the  interim  were  shewn 
to  Spohr  on  this  visit,  it  will  suffice  to  mention  one  agreeable 
surprise  only  of  which  Spohr  used  to  speak  with  delight  in 
after  years.  This  was  the  magnificent  performance  of  his 
oratorio  “Calvary”  (des  Heilands  letzte  Stunden)  at  Exeter 
Hall,  under  the  excellent  conducting  of  Costa;  and  which,  per- 
formed by  greater  masses  of  assistants  than  at  the  memorable 
Norwich  festival  (700  singers  and  musicians),  completely  over- 
powered Spohr  himself,  as  well  as  the  enthusiastically  delighted 


Digitized  by  Google 


304 


public;  in  so  much,  that  he  was  obliged  to  agree  in  the  re- 
mark of  his  friends,  that  the  effect  in  many  parts,  especially 
that  of  the  powerfully  imposing  choruses,  was  more  immense 
than  the  composer  himself  had  even  conceived. 

On  Sundays,  on  which  days,  according  to  English  custom, 
the  theatres  are  closed , there  are  no  concerts , and  even  all 
private  music  is  hushed,  Spohr  gladly  availed  himself  of  the  in- 
vitations he  received  to  make  excursions  far  away  from  the 
gigantic  town,  to  recruit  his  energies  somewhat  in  the  fresh 
air,  from  the  daily  musical  fatigue  and  excitement.  Some- 
times it  was  to  Clapham  and  Kensington,  on  a visit  to  the 
Sillem  and  Horsley  families;  sometimes  farther  by  railway  to 
Sir  George  Smart's  pleasant  country-house  at  Chertsey,  which 
Spohr  always  called  ‘‘the  little  paradise;”  or  to  Professor 
Owen's  in  Richmond-park ; from  which  he  always  returned 
requickened  in  mind  and  body  to  the  wear  and  tear  of  London 
life.  Owen's  charming  residence  and  his  amiable  manners  were 
always  subjects  of  agreeable  recollection  to  Spohr , and  he  would 
often  relate  how  the  celebrated  naturalist,  in  his  kindly  un- 
assuming manner,  would  come  out  to  welcome  him  on  a hot 
summer’s  day,  clad  in  a light  summer  jacket  and  a broad- 
brimmed  straw  hat,  but  in  honour  of  “his  welcome  renowned 
guest,”  decorated  with  the  Prussian  order  “pour  le  merite,”  and 
then  till  late  in  the  evening  devise  every  possible  means  of 
affording  him  pleasure  and  entertainment. 

Meanwhile  the  rehearsals  of  Faust  had  prospered  so  well, 
that  on  the  1 5th.  July  the  first  public  performance  took  place 
under  Spohr' s direction,  and  a letter  written  home  refers  to 
it  in  the  following  manner: 

“The  opera  went  off  incomparably  well,  and  made  a 
wonderfully  powerful  effect  upon  everybody.  Indeed  to  us 
also  it  appeared  in  quite  a new  light  — everything  was  so  grand, 
so  splendid!  The  new  additional  themes  blend  charmingly 
with  the  whole,  and  present  singularly  fine  effects.  Decorations, 
scenery,  all  are  new,  exceedingly  brilliant  and  got  up  at  great 
expense : orchestra,  singers,  and  chorus,  did  their  best,  so  that 


Digitized  by 


Google 


305 


the  Londoners  say,  that  they  have  not  seen  so  splendid  an 
operatic  performance  for  many  years;  and  it  was  received 
throughout  also  with  the  most  enthusiastic  applause.  That 
the  foreign  (almost  all  Italian)  singers  would  have  sung  this 
German  music  with  so  much  zest  and  pleasure,  we  could 
scarcely  have  believed  possible.  Those  who  most  distinguished 
themselves  were  Mrs.  Castellan  (Kunigunda),  Ronconi  (Faust), 
Formes  (Mephistopheles),  and  Tamberlik  (Hugo).  The  latter 
charmed  every  body,  for  he  has  a splendid  tenor  voice  with 
immense  power,  and  he  executed  the  beautiful  air,  accompanied 
by  a magnificent  chorus  of  forty  male  voices,  with  such  fire  and 
irresistible  power  that  a da  capo  was  called  for  by  general 
acclamation.  And  Formes  also,  in  his  song  in  A major,  which 
had  greatly  gained  by  the  newly  composed  exceedingly  beautiful 

introduction  and  recitative  scene The  whole  house  was 

in  ecstacy,  and  in  the  intervals  between  the  acts,  and  at  the  end, 
Spohr  was  warmly  congratulated  by  a host  of  friends  and  ad- 
mirers.” With  similar  success  and  with  yet  more  perfect  execution, 
the  second  and  third  performance  of  Faust,  under  Spohr’s  di- 
rection, took  place  within  a few  days ; after  which  he  once  more 
left  England,  accompanied  to  the  place  of  embarcation  by  nu- 
merous lovers  of  music,  who  up  to  the  last  moment  projected 
the  most  inviting  plans  for  the  next  summer. 

Agreeably  impressed  with  the  successful  issue  of  his  journey, 
he  returned  to  Germany,  picturing  to  himself  the  happy  hours 
in  which,  as  was  his  custom,  he  should  again  relate  amid  the 
expectant  circle  at  home  the  interesting  incidents  of  his  visit. 
But  this  time  the  pleasure  of  once  more  meeting  the  members 
of  his  family  was  but  too  soon  overshadowed,  and  Spohr  beheld 
with  much  alarm  the  suffering  constitution  of  his  father-in-law, 
whose  declining  bodily  strength  had  for  some  time  past  ex- 
cited the  utmost  anxiety;  but  which  assumed  appearances  so 
threatening  during  the  last  few  weeks,  that  the  anxious  members 
of  his  family,  despite  their  tender  care  and  hopefulness,  could 
no  longer  deceive  themselves  as  to  the  near  approach  of  his 
dissolution.  With  sorrowing  hearts  they  beheld  with  every  day 

SPOHR,  Autobiography.  IL  20 


Digitized  by 


Google 


306 


the  nearer  approach  of  the  long-dreaded  moment;  till  on  the 
4th.  October  1852,  the  loved  and  honoured  parent  breathed 
his  last.  This  sad  event  cast  an  enduring  shadow  over  Spohr's 
life,  for  with  his  wife  he  not  only  lamented  the  loss  of  the 
beloved  father,  but  mourned  thenceforth  that  of  the  truthful 
friend  whose  feelings  and  sentiments  had  been  so  congenial 
with  his  own. 


In  the  autumn  of  1852  the  duties  of  Spohr's  office  were 
unexpectedly  much  alleviated  by  the  nomination  of  a second 
director;  an  appointment  which  indeed,  with  his  great  ac- 
tivity and  as  yet  unimpaired  powers,  he  had  never  con- 
templated as  a thing  to  be  desired ; but  which  was  nevertheless 
the  more  agreeable  to  him  from  the  circumstance  that  the 
newly -created  appointment  was  given  to  his  favorite  pupil, 
concert-master  Jean  Bott,  in  order  to  secure  his  rejection  of 
the  post  of  musical  director  at  Hanover,  which  had  been 
offered  to  him  under  very  favourable  circumstances.  By  this 
means  the  Cassel  court  orchestra  was  saved  the  loss  of  so  distin- 
guished a member,  and  his  services  were  fully  secured.  Spohr 
consented  also  very  willingly  to  the  requisitions  of  the  managers 
of  the  theatre  to  abandon  to  the  direction  of  the  new  co- 
director the  operas  proposed,  and  suggested  but  few  modi- 
fications in  this  arrangement.  By  this  means  Bott  assumed 
the  direction  of  a number  of  light  operas,  chiefly  French  and 
Italian,  but  undertook  as  heretofore  to  lead  as  first  violin  in 
the  orchestra  under  Spohr's  direction  in  all  grand  German 
operas,  which  were  reserved  to  the  latter.  The  repertory  of 
the  new  and  zealous  co-director  soon  received  an  interesting 
addition,  for  in  the  beginning  of  the  year  1853  Shakspeare's 
“Midsummernight’s  Dream,”  with  Mendelssohn's  music,  was  per- 
formed on  the  Cassel  stage  for  the  first  time;  on  which  oc- 
casion Spohr  expressed  himself  in  the  following  words  in  a 
letter  to  Hauptmann:  “The  most  charming  music  that  I know 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


307 


of  Mendelssohn  is  indeed  his  music  to  the  “Midsummernight’s 
Dream,”  which  has  at  length  been  performed  here  also,  and 
right  well.  JBott  practised  the  orchestra  in  the  music  most  as- 
siduously, and  for  me  it  was  a great  enjoyment  to  be  enabled 
for  once  to  listen  as  auditor  to  the  performance  of  good 
music.”  In  regard  to  Spohr’s  own  labours  the  same  letter 
then  speaks  further:  “We  are  now  studying  ‘Tannhauser,’ 
(which  the  Elector  has  at  length  permitted),  and  we  shall  give 
that  opera  for  the  first  time  on  Whitmonday.  It  will  be  put 
on  the  stage  with  the  greatest  care  and  both  decorations  and 
costumes  will  be  rich.  There  is  much  that  is  new  and  beautiful 
in  the  opera,  but  much  also  that  is  most  distressing  to  the 
ear.  For  the  violins  and  basses  it  is  more  difficult  than  any- 
thing I ever  yet  met  with,”  &c. 

After  the  first  performances  of  this  difficult  work  had 
passed  off  in  the  most  successful  manner,  Spohr  wrote  again 
respecting  it  to  his  friend  Hauptmann:  “‘Tannhauser’  was 
performed  last  night  for  the  third  time,  and  again  to  a full 
house.  The  opera  has  gained  many  admirers,  by  reason  of 
its  earnestness  and  its  subject-matter,  and  when  I compare 
it  with  others  produced  of  late  years,  I am  also  of  their  way 
of  thinking.  With  much  of  what  was  at  first  very  disagreeable 
to  me  I have  become  familiarised  from  frequent  hearing;  but 
the  want  of  rhythm,  and  the  frequent  absence  of  rounded  periods 
is  still  to  me  very  objectionable.  The  manner  in  which  it  is 
performed  here  is  really  very  fine,  and  in  few  places  in  Ger- 
many can  be  heard  with  such  precision.  In  the  enormously 
difficult  ‘ensembles’  of  the  singers  in  the  second  act,  not  one 
single  note  was  omitted  last  night.  But  with  all  that,  in 
several  parts  these  assume  a shape  which  make  a downright 
horrifying  music,  particularly  just  before  the  part  previous 
to  where  Elizabeth  throws  herself  upon  the  singers  who  rush 
upon  Tannhauser.  — What  faces  would  Haydn  and  Mozart 
make,  were  they  obliged  to  hear  the  stunning  noise  that  is  now 
given  to  us  for  music  1 — The  choruses  of  pilgrims  (but  which 
are  here  supported  by  clarinets  and  bassoons  p .)  were  in- 

20* 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


308 


tonated  so  purely  last  night,  that  I became  somewhat  reconciled 
for  the  first  time  to  their  unnatural  modulations.  It  is  as- 
tonishing what  the  human  ear  will  by  degrees  become  accus- 
tomed to!”  &c. 

Although,  as  may  be  inferred  from  the  above  remarks, 
Spohr,  with  his  preminent  sentiment  for  harmony  and  beautiful, 
regular  forms  in  music,  could  not  readily  reconcile  himself  to 
the  tonic  creations  of  more  modern  times,  which  so  frequently 
deviate  from  them,  he  nevertheless  took  a lively  interest  in 
them,  and  was  so  anxious  to  become  acquainted  with  Wagner's 
newest  opera  “Lohengrin,”  that  while  awaiting  the  as  yet 
witheld  permission  of  the  Elector  for  a full  theatrical  per- 
formance, he  determined  upon  giving  some  scenes  from  it  at 
the  ensuing  winter  concerts,  and  wrote  to  Hauptmann  on  the 
subject  as  follows:  “If  you  wish  to  afford  us  a pleasure  by 
sending  something  for  our  winter  concerts,  let  me  ask  of  you 
the  music  to  ‘Lohengrin.’  I was  in  correspondence  with 
Wagner  this  summer,  and  he  knows  that  I am  exerting  my- 
self to  put  that  opera  upon  the  stage  here,  also.  He  will 
therefore  have  no  objection  to  a performance  of  some  scenes 
beforehand.  I shall  write  to  inform  him  of  it  also  upon  a fitting 
occasion,  but  I do  not  like  to  renew  the  correspondence  on 
the  subject,  without  being  empowered  to  ask  at  the  same  time 
for  the  score  for  our  theatre,  which  will  not  be  before  next 
summer,  for  the  birthday  of  the  Elector.”  This  expectation 
was  nevertheless  not  realised,  for  the  Elector’s  permission  was 
neither  granted  for  the  day  appointed,  nor  upon  a subse- 
quent reiterated  solicitation;  and  in  this  manner  Spohr  was 
never  enabled  to  hear  this  opera,  which  both  in  Cassel  and 
other  places  he  had  repeatedly  striven  to  do. 

With  the  approach  of  the  vacation  of  the  summer  1853 
Spohr  made  preparation  once  more  (for  the  sixth  and  last 
time)  for  the  journey  to  England,  whence  in  the  month  of 
January  he  had  received,  (and  as  chance  would  have  it  upon 
the  same  day)  two  letters  of  invitation  from  two  wholly  dif- 
ferent parties.  One,  from  the  theatre-director  Gye,  contained 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


309 


a recapitulation  of  the  plan  formed  in  the  previous  summer, 
of  bringing  out  an  Italian  translation  of  Spohr' s “Jessonda” 
during  the  approaching  season;  the  other,  from  Dr.  Wylde, 
the  director  of  the  recently  instituted  New  Philharmonic  Society, 
contained  a pressing  invitation  to  Spohr , to  undertake  the 
direction  of  the  grand  concerts  which  the  society  contemplated 
giving  during  the  summer  months.  The  latter  attractive  in- 
vitation was  the  one  that  decided  his  yet  wavering  resolu- 
tion, since  it  was  of  the  greatest  interest  to  him  to  procure 
a hearing  for  his  grander  orchestral  compositions,  which  would 
there  be  performed  with  all  that  power  which  was  already 
known  to  him,  before  a public  who,  like  all  the  performers, 
understood  so  thoroughly  the  spirit  of  his  music. 

Scarcely  had  he  arrived  in  London  than  an  agreeable 
musical  surprise  awaited  him,  for  on  his  first  visit  to  Dr. 
Wylde  he  was  pressed  by  him  to  proceed  immediately  to  a 
morning  concert  then  about  to  take  place,  and  arrived  there 
just  in  time  to  hear  an  excellent  performance  of  his  nonett, 
and  at  the  conclusion  was  warmly  greeted  by  the  audience, 
to  whom  the  announcement  of  the  presence  of  the  composer 
was  both  an  agreeable  and  sudden  surprise.  Under  similar 
circumstances  he  was  present  the  next  evening  at  the  last 
Philharmonic  concert  in  the  Hanover  Square  Rooms,  where  he 
was  greatly  gratified  by  the  very  successful  performance  of  his 
historical  symphony,  which  was  enthusiastically  applauded. 
A few  days  afterwards  the  first  of  the  concerts  of  the  New 
Philharmonic  Society  took  place  under  his  personal  direction, 
of  which  mention  is  made  as  follows  in  a letter  written  home: 
“Last  evening  Spohr  consummated  the  first  of  his  great  achieve- 
ments; the  direction  of  the  fine  New  Philharmonic  concerts  in 
Exeter-Hall,  where  he  was  again  received  with  the  same  enthu- 
siasm as  formerly,  and  which  was  manifested  throughout  the 
whole  performance.  We  found  our  exalted  expectations  of 
this  gigantic  orchestra,  wholly  composed  of  musicians  of  high 
standing,  fully  realised,  and  the  impression  made  by  the  im- 
mense mass  in  the  spacious  and  densely  crowded  hall  was 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


310 


truly  grand  and  imposing.  Even  the  ninth  symphony  of 
Beethoven , abnormal  as  are  many  things  therein,  and  especially 
the  last  subject,  with  the  ‘song  to  pleasure,’  executed  in  the 
finished  manner  it  was,  afforded  a real  enjoyment.  Spohr' s 
‘Overture  in  the  severe  style’  opened  the  concert,  and  had 
a grand  effect;  as  also  that  of  ‘Jessonda,’  which  was  even 
encored.  This  was  followed  by  the  tenor  song  in  ‘Jessonda,’ 
splendidly  sung  by  Th . Formes , and  received  with  tumultuous 
applause,”  &c. 

Not  less  interesting  also  was  the  programme  of  the  last 
•concert  directed  by  Spohr;  it  comprised  besides  his  own  com- 
positions — a quartet  concerto,  a double  symphony , and  the 
overture  to  the  “Mountain  Sprite,”  — the  D major  symphony  of 
Beethoven , the  overture  to  “Fidelio,”  the  duet  for  two  pianofortes 
of  Mendelssohn  and  Moscheles  (executed  by  Miss  Claus  and  Miss 
Goddard),  and  some  other  pieces.  The  performance  of  the  whole 
of  the  pieces  of  music  was  all  that  could  be  desired,  and  in 
regard  to  the  fine  effect  of  Spohr' s symphony,  a letter  specially 
remarks:  “The  double  symphony  seemed  as  though  it  had 
been  written  expressly  for  such  orchestral  powers  and  for  this 
place.  The  lesser  orchestra  was,  in  accordance  with  several 
trials  made  at  the  rehearsal,  placed  high  up  above,  and  apart ; 
and  sometimes  between  the  powerful  and  imposing  masses  of 
tone  of  the  larger  orchestra  it  sounded  really  like  music  from 
another  sphere.” 

The  chief  object  of  Spohr’s  journey  to  London  was  thus 
once  more  fully  achieved:  but  on  the  other  hand  the  projected 
performance  of  “Jessonda”  during  the  same  time,  met  with 
numerous  unexpected  obstacles.  In  order  to  allow  Spohr  the 
number  of  rehearsals  he  considered  necessary  for  the  study 
of  the  work,  another  opera,  also  a newly  studied  one , “Ben- 
venuto Cellini,”  by  Berlioz , was  selected  for  performance  during 
the  intervening  opera  nights;  and  as  is  the  custom,  was 
to  be  repeated  several  times  without  further  rehearsal.  But 
upon  the  very  first  night  of  its  performance,  it  met  with  a 
very  unfavourable  reception  from  the  public,  and  Spohr  himself, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


311 


interested  as  he  felt  to  hear  this  much-talked-of  music,  respect- 
ing which  opinions  were  so  conflicting,  was  not  much  edified 
thereby,  as  appears  from  a letter  written  to  his  friend  Mr. 
Lilder:  “In  the  opera  of  Berlioz,  which  I heard  in  London 
this  summer,  there  are  some  fine  things,  but  scarcely  has  one 
begun  to  feel  interested  in  it,  than  there  comes  a something 
so  bizarre  and  harsh,  that  all  the  pleasure  one  has  felt  is 
destroyed.  I have  a special  hatred  of  this  eternal  speculating 
upon  extraordinary  instrumental  effects,  for  his  opera  contains 
without  doubt  many  really  happy  conceptions  both  melodic 
and  dramatic,  and  these  are  always  marred  by  them.  This 
it  was  also  that  displeased  the  London  public,  which  was  at 
first  very  favourable  disposed  towards  him,  and  received  him 
upon  his  entering  the  orchestra  with  loud  applause;  but  as 
the  opera  proceeded  their  dissatisfaction  increased,  until  at 
length,  upon  its  conclusion,  the  audience  broke  out  into  one  gen- 
eral storm  of  hisse^  and  whistling ; a circumstance  never  known 
to  have  occured  before  at  the  Italian  opera  in  London  in 
presence  of  the  Queen!  — It  is  with  Berlioz  as  with  all  the 
other  coryphees  of  the  music  of  the  future;  they  do  not  abandon 
themselves  to  their  natural  feelings  in  their  work,  but  specu- 
late on  things  which  have  never  yet  been.  That  is  the  reason 
why  these  gifted  musicians  seldom  write  anything  that  is 
enjoyable,  particularly  for  people  who  in  the  last  century  grew 
up  in  the  knowledge  of  Haydn , Mozart  and  Beethoven  ” &c. 
With  so  explicit  an  opinion  as  that  pronounced  by  the  Lon- 
don public,  the  theatrical  direction  did  not  dare  risk  a second 
performance  of  the  opera,  and  other  operas  were  obliged  to 
be  substituted,  which  required  also  several  rehearsals,  and 
“Jessonda,”  which  was  as  yet  only  in  the  first  stage  of  study, 
was  still  farther  postponed.  This,  nevertheless,  was  no  great 
source  of  uneasiness  to  Spohr , and  the  time  thus  gained  was 
agreeably  occupied  by  him  in  other  musical  enjoyments. 

On  this  visit  indeed  Spohr  and  his  wife  found  a home 
replete  with  everj  domestic  comfort  in  the  house  of  Dr.  A. 
Farre , who  emulated  with  his  kind  lady  in  his  attentions  to- 


Digitized  by  Google 


312 


wards  them,  and  kindly  devoted  every  hour  that  his  professional 
engagements  permitted  to  the  entertainment  of  his  guests;  in 
this  manner  a warm  friendship  was  soon  established  between 
the  two  families,  and  the  weeks  passed  under  his  roof  were 
ever  recalled  by  Spokr  as  among  the  most  pleasing  of  his 
recollections.  As  Dr.  Farre  and  several  of  his  medical  col- 
league were  very  musical  and  good  singers,  they  had  formed 
themselves,  in  conjunction  with  some  other  families  devoted  to 
the  art,  into  a musical  circle,  in  which  music  of  a high  class 
was  zealously  cultivated,  and  that  of  Spohr  was  more  especially 
the  favorite.  In  a soiree  of  this  kind  he  had  one  evening 
the  agreeable  surprise  to  hear  bis  oratorio  “Die  letzten 
Dinge”  performed  by  eight  and  twenty  dilettanti  with  faultless 
precision,  a production  which,  in  rare  contrast  with  the  habitual 
English  taste  for  massive  instrumentation,  appealed  to  the 
feelings  in  the  most  pleasing  manner  by  the  perfect  purity 
and  intensity  of  its  expression.  At  a brilliant  musical  soiree 
given  by  Dr.  Farre  himself,  in  compliment  to  his  guests,  a 
succession  of  pieces  selected  from  Spohr's  different  operas  was 
also  given  in  the  most  efficient  manner,  and  was  subject  of  no 
small  surprise  and  gratification  both  to  him  and  the  assembled 
company. 

Meanwhile,  the  rehearsals  of  “Jessonda”  had  slowly  pro- 
ceeded, it  is  true,  but  there  had  arisen  so  many  causes  for  a delay 
in  its  production,  that  before  this  could  take  place,  the  period 
of  his  vacation  expired,  and  Spohr  was  obliged  to  leave  London 
for  Germany;  but  in  doing  so  he  had  the  satisfaction  of  leaving 
his  opera  in  charge  of  a worthy  representative,  Mr.  Costa, 
under  whose  direction,  a fortnight  afterwards,  it  was  per- 
formed several  times  with  the  most  brilliant  success. 

Upon  his  landing  at  Calais  Spohr  was  warmly  received 
by  the  amateurs  of  music  of  that  town,  who  had  become  ap- 
prised of  the  day  of  his  arrival,  and  he  was  invited  by  them 
to  a grand  entertainment  given  in  his  honour.  Its  chief  feature 
was  a luxurious  banquet,  but  of  which  also  an  agreeable  musical 
surprise  formed  a part;  for  at  the  conclusion  of  the  dinner 


Digitized  by  Google 


— ' 313 


the  pleasing  notes  of  Spohr' s C minor  quartet  were  heard  in 
the  adjoining  apartment,  which  was  followed  by  the  execution 
of  several  other  pieces,  and  continued  up  to  the  departure  of 
the  delighted  guests  at  a late  hour.  This  day,  so  unexpectedly 
passed  in  Calais  in  the  midst  of  musical  and  festive  enjoy- 
ments, was  a subject  of  special  gratification  to  Spohr , as  he 
had  least  of  all  expected,  here,  upon  the  soil  of  France,  to  have 
met  with  such  proofs  of  esteem  and  so  much  admiration  for 
his  music. 

On  the  return  journey  he  was  much  occupied  with  an 
idea  which  he  had  conceived  in  England  of  a new  grand  com- 
position for  the  pianoforte  with  instrumental  accompaniment* 
and  which  upon  his  arrival  home  he  forthwith  began  with 
zest  and  spirit.  Thus  was  produced  — in  the  seventieth  year 
of  Spohr's  age  — one  of  his  finest  masterpieces,  the  septet  for 
pianoforte,  two  stringed  and  four  wind  instruments,  replete 
with  the  freshness  of  youthful  thought  in  every  part,  with  a 
larghetto  which  has  scarcely  its  equal  in  bewitching  harmony 
and  beauty  of  modulations.  While  yet  in  manuscript  it  was 
publicly  performed  at  the  next  subscription  concert,  on  which 
occasion  both  the  composition  and  the  excellence  of  the  exe- 
cution met  with  the  most  favourable  reception  and  acknow- 
ledgement. The  pianoforte  part,  which  was  as  grateful  as  it 
was  difficult,  was  taken  by  J.  Soft , and  the  audience  testified 
yet  more  warmly  their  just  appreciation  of  his  execution  from 
his  having  displayed  also  on  the  same  evening  his  brilliant 
talent  as  violin  player  in  Spohr' s 15th.  violin  concerto.  By 
the  desire  of  the  lovers  of  music  of  Cassel,  a repetition  of  the 
new  septet  was  given  at  the  next  concert;  after  which,  while 
yet  in  manuscript,  it  was  performed  at  one  of  the  quartet 
soirees  in  Leipzic,  and  the  fullest  justice  done  to  the  piano- 
forte part  by  the  truly  artistic  execution  of  Moscheles,  and 
received  there  by  the  public  with  the  most  gratifying  applause. 

For  the  next  summer  vacation  (1854)  Spohr  had  con- 
templated another  journey  to  Switzerland  j*  and  so  great  this 
time  was  his  desire  to  pass  once  more  the  most  pleasant 


Digitized  by  Google 


314 


summer  month  in  the  undisturbed  enjoyment  of  the  beauties 
of  nature,  that  the  numerous  invitations  he  had  received  to 
the  musical  festivals  in  England  and  Holland  were  powerless 
to  induce  him  to  relinquish  his  long  previously  projected  plan. 
As  he  was  on  the  eve  of  departing,  he  received  by  telegraph 
a farther  pressing  entreaty  from  his  grand- daughter  An- 
tonia  Wolff  at  Ratisbonne,  who  had  there  married  a col- 
legiate professor,  a Mr.  Schmitt,  and  who  besought  him  to  go  by 
way  of  the  old  imperial  city,  where  a visit  from  him  had 
long  been  anxiously  desired  by  all  lovers  of  music,  and  to  pass 
a few  days  with  his  grand-children  and  great-grand-children. 
Attractive  as  was  this  invitation,  Spohr  with  regret  felt  com- 
pelled to  decline  it,  his  holidays  being  so  strictly  limited ; and 
no  railroad  existing  at  that  time  to  Ratisbonne,  it  would  have 
led  him  too  far  out  of  his  projected  route.  — After  a short 
sojourn  at  Marburg,  Heidelberg,  and  Baden-Baden  — so  famed 
for  the  beauty  of  their  respective  environs  — he  proceeded  to 
the  south  of  Switzerland,  and  especially  enjoyed  the  voyage 
by  steamboat  upon  the  magnificent  lakes.  Aftef  a few  days’ 
stay  at  Lausanne,  Geneva,  and  Vevay,  further  excursions  were 
then  made  into  the  more  easily  accessible  neighbourhood, 
where  all  around  smiled  in  summer’s  rich  attire,  while  beyond 
the  lake  rose  in  majestic  contrast  the  lofty  chain  of  the  Alps, 
with  its  snow-capped  summits. 

Leaving  the  lake  of  Geneva  the  travellers  continued  their 
journey  to  Freiburg  and  Bern,  at  both  which  places  quite  un- 
expectedly calls  were  made  upon  the  interest  they  took  in 
music.  At  Freiburg,  as  soon  as  they  had  alighted  at  the 
hotel,  Spohr  was  invited  to  join  the  other  strangers  present 
in  a subscription  towards  the  honorarium  which  it  was  there 
customary  to  tender  to  the  organist  of  the  church  of  St.  Nicholas, 
for  the  performance  of  a piece  of  music  upon  its  so  much 
celebrated  organ.  At  the  appointed  hour,  ju6t  as  the  shades 
of  evening  closed  around,  the  small  party  assembled,  and  so- 
lemnly pealed  the  tones  of  the  mighty  organ  through  the 
spacious  and  empty  aisles  of  the  stately  church,  producing  their 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


315 


wonted  powerful  effect  upon  Spohr.  The  organist,  either  not 
aware  of  the  high  musical  authority  before  whom  he  was 
playing,  or  thinking  to  impose  on  him  like  the  other  strangers 
present  by  the  exhibition  of  his  wonderful  artistic  skill,  struck 
up  suddenly  in  the  most  inappropriate  manner  sundry  things 
from  modern  operas,  and  then  concluded  with  such  a thun- 
dering peal  on  the  instrument  that  the  first  exalted  impression 
was  wholly  obliterated  and  Spohr  could  not  forbear  the  un- 
disguised expression  of  his  disapproval  of  such  a profanation 
of  the  grand  fabric  of  sounds,  which,  with  its  inscription : “ In 
major em  gloriam  dei”  seemed  rather  to  him  in  a more  exalted 
degree  worthy  alone  to  intonate  the  praises  of  God. 

Scarcely  arrived  in  Bern,  Spohr  was  surprised  to  see 
notices  stuck  up  at  the  corners  of  the  streets  announcing  two 
concerts  of  sacred  music  in  which  his  oratorio  “Die  letzten 
Dinge”  formed  the  chief  feature  of  each,  though  preceded  on 
the  first  evening  by  a cantata  by  Sebastian  Bach , and  on  the 
second  by  four  of  Marcello's  Psalms.  The  first  concert  had 
already  taken  place  the  evening  before,  but  as  a great  number 
of  hearers  as  well  as  performers  had  come  in  from  the  neigh- 
bouring towns  to  the  second  concert,  Mr.  Edele,  the  director 
of  the  “Society  of  Ancient  Classical  Music”  at  Bern,  had  made 
arrangements  to  give  a repetition  of  the  oratorio  on  the  next 
evening,  so  that  at  this  second  performance  of  it  Spohr  was 
enabled  to  hear  it  executed  with  the  greater  precision.  As  the 
news  of  Spohr's  presence  soon  spread  through  the  church, 
the  opportunity  was  seized  of  giving  the  composer  of  the  work 
which  had  just  been  performed  with  such  devout  inspiration, 
a public  mark  of  the  great  esteem  in  which  he  was  held  in 
Bern;  and  in  the  later  part  of  the  evening  he  was  suddenly 
greeted  by  a quickly  improvised  serenade,  and  addressed 
in  several  animated  speeches.  On  the  following  morning  Spohr 
left  Bern,  and  after  spending  several  pleasant  days  with  his 
female  fellow-travellers  in  the  Bernese  Oberland  and  on  the 
shores  of  the  Vierwaldstadter  Lake,  he  continued  his  journey 
across  the  Lake  of  Constance  to  Bavaria  and  its  capital, 


Digitized  by  Google 


J 


— 316  — 

Munich,  where  the  much-talked-of  grand  exhibition  of  industry 
had  just  been  opened.  Though  the  one  week  spent  there  may 
have  been  found  scarcely  sufficient  to  see  all  the  treasure  of 
art  and  manufacture  which  had  been  collected  partly  for  per- 
manent and  partly  for  a short  exhibition  only,  the  travellers 
do  not  appear  to  have  thought  a longer  stay  desirable,  for 
they  soon  experienced  also  the  prejudicial  influence  of  the  bodily 
and  mental  over-exertion,  which,  combined  with  the  still  more 
injurious  climatic  influences  which  during  that  disastrous  sum- 
mer carried  off  so  many  of  the  visitors  to  that  then  over- 
crowded city.  Under  such  circumstances  nothing  could  be 
more  desirable  than  a visit  to  Alexandersbad,  where  Dr.  Theodor 
Pfeiffer , a near  relative,  and  proprietor  of  the  cold-water-cure 
establishment,  had  long  kindly  invited  them.  A short  stay  in 
that  place,  with  its  healthful  mountain  air,  sufficed  to  restore 
their  depressed  animal  spirits,  and  Spohr  gladly  joined  in  all 
the  social  parties  in  their  excursions  to  the  romantic  environs, 
and  shared  in  all  the  cheerful  parties  of  the  company  at  the 
baths,  which  in  kindly  social  spirit  lived  as  one  family.  All 
this,  together  with  the  whole  arrangements  and  rules  of  life, 
which  were  simple  and  in  accordance  with  nature,  were  so 
much  to  Spohr9s  taste,  that  from  that  time  he  always  con- 
sidered Alexandersbad  as  the  beau-ideal  of  an  invigorating 
summer  residence,  and  after  another  visit  there  he  firmly 
maintained  that  opinion  for  the  rest  of  his  life. 

Spohr  commenced  the  following  year  (1855)  with  the 
composition  of  six  four- voice  part-songs  for  soprano,  alto, 
tenor  and  bass,  which  were  soon  after  excellently  sung  at  a 
private  concert  of  the  St.  Cecilia  society  with  double  vocal 
support,  under  his  own  conducting,  and  aided  by  his  own 
powerful  bass.  They  made  an  unusual  sensation  among  the 
lovers  of  music  present,  above  all  one  entitled  “Man’s  Con- 
solation” (the  words  by  von  Muller  von  der  Werra),  which 
went  home  to  all  hearts. 

In  the  spring  of  the  same  year,  Spohr  obeyed  an  invi- 
tation from  the  king  of  Hanover  to  direct  his  double  symphony, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


317 


and  several  other  of  his  compositions,  at  a grand  concert. 
Upon  his  arrival  at  the  railway  terminus  he  was  met  by 
music-director  Wehner,  at  the  head  of  a numerous  body  of 
musicians  and  friends  of  the  art,  and  in  the  evening  at  the  hotel 
he  was  saluted  with  two  serenades,  by  the  military  band,  and 
the  members  of  the  choral  society.  On  the  subject  of  the 
pleasant  days  he  passed  in  Hanover  upon  that  occasion  both 
in  a musical  and  festive  point  of  view,  Spohr  wrote  to  his 
friend  Hauptmann:  “I  enjoyed  myself  much  on  my  little  ex- 
cursion to  Hanover.  I played  a quartet  at  the  King’s,  and 
it  seemed  to  me  that  his  musical  culture  went  so  far  as  to 
like  that  kind  of  music.  At  a morning  concert  got  up  by  the 
chapel  royal  to  let  me  hear  two  of  my  compositions  which 
they  had  very  carefully  practised,  I played  also  my  quartet 
(E  minor).  The  compositions  adverted  to  were  the  7th.  violin 
concerto,  executed  in  a very  masterly  manner  by  Joachim; 
and  the  first  double  quartet,  of  which  Kompel  played  the  first 
violin  in  the  first,  and  Joachim  in  that  of  the  second  quartet. 
This  also,  was  played  in  the  most  finished  manner.  On  the  second 
day  the  chapel  royal  gave  a first  rehearsal  of  my  symphony,  “The 
Terrestial  and  Divine  in  human  Life,”  which  was  followed  by  a 
grand  dinner,  which  lasted  five  hours,  and  during  which  the 
speeches,  songs  and  toasts  were  numerous  and  varied.  Although 
much  exhausted  I was  obliged  to  go  to  a musical  party  in  the 
evening  given  by  my  old  friend  Hausmann , . where  I played  two 
of  my  quartets,  and  as  on  the  previous  evening,  did  not  get 
to  bed  till  two  o’clock.  On  the  third  day  there  was  a grand 
rehearsal  in  the  forenoon,  and  in  the  evening  the  concert  for 
the  benefit  of  the  poor,  for  which  the  King  had  sent  me  the 
invitation  to  come  to  Hanover.  I conducted  the  first  half, 
consisting  of  the  overture  and  duett  from  ‘Jessonda’  and  my 
symphony.  All  these,  executed  in  a masterly  manner,  parti- 
cularly the  double  symphony,  which  I never  heard  better 
played,  not  even  in  London.  The  small  orchestra  led  by 
Joachim  was  composed  of  the  elite  of  the  chapel  royal  and 
was  very  conveniently  placed  on  the  stage,  so  that  it  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


318 


advantageously  separated  from  the  large  one.  The  latter  was 
composed  of  twenty  violins,  six  viols,  five  violincelloa  and  five 
counter-basses.  It  contrasted  well  therefore  by  its  imposing 
power,  in  the  sonorous  and  not  too  spacious  theatre,  with  the 
solo  orchestra  upon  the  stage.  The  effect  was  very  satisfactory. 
But  in  feet  the  orchestra  is  a very  superior  one,  particularly 
in  the  stringed  instruments.  The  harmony  comprises  certainly 
several  distinguished  virtuosi,  but  in  ensemble,  it  is  neither  so 
even  in  tone,  nor  so  pure  in  intonation  as  ours.  The  second 
part  of  the  concert  was  conducted  by  Fischer ; it  consisted  of 
the  overture  to  “Euryanthe,”  Beethoven's  violin  concerto  (with 
new,  superfluously  long,  very  difficult  and  ungrateful,  cadences 
by  Joachim),  and  some  ‘numbers’  of  ‘Lohengrin.’  The  con- 
cert was  crowded  and  must  have  brought  in  a round  sum 
to  the  poor-box.  — On  the  morning  before  I left  a deputation 
from  the  chapel  royal  presented  me  with  a leader’s  baton  more 
rich  and  tasteful  in  design  than  anything  of  the  kind  I ever 
saw.  As  I afterwards  learned,  it  was  made  by  order  of  the 
king,  to  be  presented  to  me  by  the  chapel  royal.  It  consists 
of  a beautifully  grooved  ivory  staff  with  a golden  handle  richly 
set  with  coloured  stones,  with  a similar  gold  ornamentation 
at  the  top,  ending  in  a knob  set  likewise  with  small  stones. 
The  whole  thing  is  extremely  tasteful,  and  has  upon  the  handle 
in  raised  letters:  ‘The  Royal  Hanoverian  Chapel  to  Music- 
director-general  Dr.  Spohr , March  31st.  1855.’  The  Elector, 
who  sent  for  the  work  of  art  to  inspect  it,  expressed  himself, 
as  I am  told,  upon  returning  it,  with  very  unreserved  dis- 
satisfaction that  the  inscription  did  not  express  ‘Director-general 
of  Music  to  the  Elector,’  and  said,  “who  will  know  here- 
after whose  director  general  of  music  he  was!”*  &c. 


* The  leader’s  baton  here  described  with  such  evident  satisfaction, 
formed  a worthy  companion  to  a scarcely  less  costly  and  tasteful  one  that 
Spohr  had  been  presented  with  by  his  faithful  pupil  F.  Bohme  of  Holland. 
He  was  always  very  proud  of  such  appropriate  and  artistically  executed 
presents,  and  it  was  always  his  custom  to  take  them  out  of  their  respective 
cases  with  his  own  hands,  and  to  replace  them  after  use  with  equal  care. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


319 


The  first  impression  experienced  by  Spohr  on  his  return 
from  Hanover,  was  also  an  agreeable  one,  for  he  found  at  home 
a telegraphic  message  that  had  arrived  during  his  absence, 
to  the  following  effect:  “Inspruck,  March  27th.  1855,  10  m.  p. 
10  at  night.  One  hundred  and  fifty  dilettanti  of  Inspruck,  who 
have  just  performed  the  music  of  “Jessonda”  with  rapturous 
applause,  send  to  the  master  their  heartfelt  greetings.”  The 
letters  which  subsequently  arrived  from  Inspruck  informed 
him  in  a more  detailed  manner,  “that  the  opera  had  been 
three  times  performed  there  in  the  national  theatre  to  crowded 
houses,  for  the  benefit  of  the  fund  for  the  relief  of  the  poor, 
and  in  a manner  surpassing  all  expectation,  by  musical  and 
vocal  dilettanti;”  and  expressed  at  the  same  time  “the  hope 
that  the  friends  of  music  in  that  place  would  have  the  grati- 
fication of  greeting  the  honoured  and  veteran  composer  in  their 
own  mountains  in  the  course  of  the  year,  and  hear  again  that 
classic  opera  under  his  own  personal  direction.” 

That  hope  however  was  not  realised,  for  the  journey 
contemplated  this  year  was  in  the  opposite  direction,  towards 
the  north;  first  to  Hamburg,  where  Spohr  had  not  been 
since  the  great  fire  in  1842,  and  was  therefore  greatly  in- 
terested to  see  the  magnificent  manner  in  which  it  had  been 
rebuilt.  Fully  satisfied  in  that  expectation,  he  had  at  the  same 
time  the  pleasure  of  seeing  again  several  much-loved  friends 
(among  whom  the  family  of  the  Grunds ),  and  to  hear  many 
successful  musical  performances,  both  in  private  and  public 
circles.  — Being  so  near  to  the  sister  town  Lubeck,  to  which 
his  wife  was  still  fondly  attached,  and  for  whose  kind-hearted 
inhabitants  he  himself,  since  his  visit  in  the  year  1840,  had  a 
predilection,  it  was  natural  that  both  should  much  desire  to 
make  a trip  thither,  upon  the  railway  which  had  since  then 
been  opened  to  connect  the  two  towns.  Although  it  is  true 
that  during  the  fifteen  years  which  had  elapsed,  many  former 
friends  had  gone  to  their  last  rest,  yet  the  venerable  old 
instructor  was  still  living,  and  met  his  former  lady  pupil  and 
her  renowned  husband  with  the  same  warmth  of  heart. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


— 320  — 

Verging  upon  eighty  years  of  age,  he  had  recently  retired  from 
“professional  life,  but  the  institution  he  had  so  long  successfully 
directed  flourished  still,  conducted  in  the  samfe  spirit  by 
his  worthy  son  Dr.  Adam  Meier;  and  Spohr  and  his  wife, 
deeply  moved  by  his  touching  kindness,  took  up  their  abode 
beneath  the  hospitable  roof  that  was  so  endeared  to  them  by 
past  recollections.  — As  the  interests  of  music  were  also  well 
represented  by  Kapellmeister  Hermann > a former  pupil  and  a 
warm  partizan  of  Spohr , the  days  passed  agreeably  in  social 
intercourse  with  old  friends  and  new  acquaintances. 

In  the  course  of  the  year  1855  Spohr  wrote  his  33rd. 
violin  quartet  (Op.  152,  published  by  Siegel  of  Leipzic)  and 
three  grand  duets  for  two  vioMns  (Op.  148,  150  and  153, 
published  by  Peters  of  Leipzic)  which  last  he  dedicated  to  the 
brothers*  .4Z/re<#  and  Henry  Holmes  of  London.  Neither  could 
he  have  commended  his  work  to  better  hands  to  ensure  a 
performance  and  publicity  worthy  of  them,  for  although  those 
young  artists  never  had  the  advantage  of  his  personal  in- 
struction, yet  by  dint  of  a diligent  study  of  his  „Violin  School,” 
they  had  become  so  penetrated  with  the  spirit  of  his  com- 
position and  his  style  of  play,  that  Spohr  ^during  his  last  stay 
in  England  had  been  exceedingly  gratified  to  hear  his  older 
violin  duets  executed  by  the  two  talented  youths  in  a really 
masterly  manner;  and  when  a few  years  afterwards,  upon  an 
artistic  tour  on  the  continent,  they  visited  Cassel,  they  caused, 
as  Spohr  himself  remarks  in  a letter : “everywhere  the  greatest 
sensation  by  their  splendid  play,  and  especially  excited  ad- 
miration by  the  highly  finished  and  surprising  performance  of 
his  duets  and  concertantes.” 

In  the  spring  of  1856  Spohr  received  a letter  from  a 
former  pupil,  the  director  of  music  Kiel,  of  Detmold ; where  upon, 
at  the  desire  of  his  Prince,  he  proposed  to  Spohr  the  com- 
position of  some  songs  for  a baritone  voice,  with  pianoforte 
and  violin  accompaniment.  Although  doubtful  at  first  that 
such  a ' combination  would  be  suited  to  a deep  male  voice,  he 
nevertheless  interested  himself  in  the  trial,  and  in  a short  time 


Digitized  by  Google 


321 


he  wrote  a collection  of  six  songs  of  the  required  kind,  with 
which  he  himself  felt  highly  satisfied.  He  then  gave  a hearing 
of  them  in  ‘ manuscript  to  his  musical  friends  in  his  own  house, 
in  which  he  himself  took  the  violin  part,  which  had  proved  of 
a somewhat  difficult  nature,  and  gave  the  voice  part  to 
Heinrich  Osthoff * an  ex-  concert  - singer,  who  for  some  years, 
past  had  been  settled  in  Cassel  as  a teacher  of  music,  and 
who  from  his  particularly  excellent  and  expressive  execution 
of  all  Spohr's  song  pieces,  sacred  and  otherwise,  was  a welcome 
guest  in  all  musical  circles.  In  Detmold  also,  the  new  songs 
dedicated  to  the  Prince  were  very  favorably  received,  and 
the  Prince,  as  his  director  of  music  informed  Spohr,  sang 
them  every  day  with  increased  satisfaction.  When  Spohr 
shortly  afterwards  forwarded  the  first  printed  presentation 
copy  (published  by  Lnckhardt  of  Cassel,  Op.  154)  to  tKe  musical 
prince,  the  latter  in  an  autograph  letter  of  thanks  thus 
expressed  himself:  “that  the  great  pleasure  the  fine  songs 
already  gave  him  would  be  yet  increased  * when  he  should 
have  the  opportunity  of  singing  them  with  Spohr’s  own  accom- 
paniment.” The  obliging  letter  was  at  the  same  time  accom- 
panied by  a valuable  souvenir,  in  the  shape  of  a shirt -pin 
with  the  appropriately  selected  emblems  of  sen  oak-leaf  in  green 
gold,  with  an  acorn  of  pearl  set  in  gold,  presented  to  Spohr 
as  an  honourable  acknowledgement  “of  his  true  German  worth 
as  musician  and  as  man.” 

The  first  weeks  of  the  summer  vacation  were  passed  by 
Spohr  in  a very  pleasant  and  recreative  journey  to  Dresden, 
Saxon  Switzerland  and  Prague;  after  which,  having  reposed  # 
a short  time  in  his  own  beautiful  flower-garden,  he  under- 
took a journey  into  the  Harz , at  the  solicitation  of  an 
enthusiastic  musical  friend,  the  jurisconsult  Hau&halter  of 
Wernigerode. 

The  increased  leisure  time  gained  by  Spohr  in  consequence  of 
the  appointment  of  his  new  colleague  he  now  devoted  to  compo- 
sition, for  which,  despite  his  advanced  age,  the  impulse  and  love 
had  not  yet  diminished.  Though  his  musical  ideas  may  no  longer 

8POHE,  Autobiography.  IL  21 


Digitized  by 


Google 


— 322  — 

have  flowed  so  copiously,  ajid  assumed  as  readily  the  form 
he  wished,  as  in  former  years,  and  though  he  himself  at  times 
expressed  doubts  as  to  whether  his  later  works  would  take 
equal  rank  with  his  earlier  compositions,  yet  he  frequently 
received  an  enthusiastic  recognition  of  the  merit  of  his  newest 
compositions  from  quite  unexpected  quarters,  which  always 
gave  him  fresh  courage  to  continue  his  musical  creations. 

Spohr  now  determined  to  write  another  quartet  (his  34th.), 
upon  terminating  which  he  immediately  opened  the  winter 
series  of  his  still  continued  quartet  circle  with  it.  Although  this 
new  composition  was  considered  extremely  fresh  and  charming 
by  both  co-operators  and  auditory,  yet  he  himself  was  so 
little  satisfied  with  it,  that  after  repeated  alteration,  which 
were  rejected  as  soon  as  made,  he  laid  aside  the  whole 
quartet  as  a failure;  nor  did  he  write  another  until  a whole 
twelvemonth  had  elapsed : this  differed  in  every  respect 
from  the  former,  and  he  substituted  it  for  it  under  the  same 
number.  Upon. its  first  performance  at  the  quartet  meeting 
this  piece  of  music  pleased  him  right  well;  but  shortly  after- 
wards it  seemed  to  him  to  require  many  improvements,  and 
as  these  did  not  turn  out  to  his  satisfaction,  sorrowfully,  but 
resigned  to  the  consciousness  that  he  could  no  longer  carry 
out  in  a satisfactory  manner  the  ideas  which  floated  before 
his  fancy,  he  associated  the  new  34th.  quartet  with  that  which 
he  had  previously  rejected,  and  expressed  the  wish  to  his  wife 
that  neither  should  at  any  time  be  made  public. 

He  came  to  a similar  decision  in  respect  to  a symphony 
which  he  had  composed  shortly  before,  which  was  performed 
once  only  in  the  presence  of  a few7  only  of  his  most  intimate 
musical  friends,  at  a rehearsal  by  the  court  orchestra  of  Cassel. 
Notwithstanding  the  numerous  beauties  and  novelties  in  thought 
which  it  contains,  to  him  nevertheless  it  did  not  appear  worthy 
of  being  placed  in  the  fine  catalogue  of  his  earlier  wrritten 
symphonies,  and  in  this  manner  by  himself  was  this  — his 
tenth  — symphony  condemned,  not  to  destruction  it  is  true, 
but  to  eternal  concealment. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


323 


In  the  summer  of  1857  Spokr  availed  himself  of  the  vacation 
to  go  to  Holland,  his  former  visit  there  being  still  borne 
by  him  in  pleasing  recollection,  he  had  therefore  long  been 
desirous  of  proceeding  thither  with  his  wife  to  shew  her  ttiat 
country,  as  yet  unvisited  by  her,  and  remarkable  for  so  many 
peculiarities.  Little  as  he  had  calculated  upon  any  musical 
enjoyments  there  at  such  a season  of  the  year,  his  pleasure 
was  great  to  hear  on  the  very  first  evening  at  Verhulsfs,  in 
Rotterdam,  in  a numerous  circle  of  musicians  and  lovers  of 
music,  several  quartets  both  of  his  own  and  of  Verhulsfs  compo- 
sition, upon  which  occasion  the  violinist  Tours,  whose  acquaintance 
he  had  formerly  made,  proved  himself  a great  virtuoso,  as  first 
violin.  The  director  of  music  Bohm , of  Dortrecht,  who  had 
shown  from  his  youth  a strong  attachment  to  the  honoured 
master,  exhibited  it  anew  by  the  unwearying  attention  with 
which  he  strove  to  alleviate  all  the  cares  and  difficulties  of 
travel  in  a foreign  country,  and  took  them  wholly  upon  himself. 
Willingly  following  the  arrangements  of  the  excellent  “travelling 
marshall,”  as  Spohr  was  wont  playfully  to  call  him,  the  tra- 
vellers were  now  enabled  to  see  the  many  remarkable  objects 
in  the  chief  cities  of  Holland  in  a comparatively  much  shorter 
time , after  which  a further  journey  was  undertaken  from 
Amsterdam  to  that  part  of  North  Holland  lying  beyond  the 
Y.  The  singular  topographical  feature  of  the  whole  country, 
the  meadows  intersected  by  innumerable  canals  and  lakes, 
meadows  covered  with  grazing  cattle,  the  hundreds  of  gaily 
painted  windmills,  the  cheerful  blue  sky,  and  the  easy  travelling 
upon  the  smoothly  paved  highroads,  more  like  the  parquetted 
floors  of  an  apartment  — in  short,  the  whole  delightful  journey, 
with  its  interesting  final  objects,  the  celebrated  places  Saardam 
and  Broek,  presented  a succession  of  charming  pictures  that 
surpassed  all  expectation  and  put  Spohr  in  particular  in  the 
most  cheerful  possible  mood. 

Their  kind  “marshall”  Bohm  accompanied  the  travellers  on 
their  return  as  far  back  as  Utrecht,  but  placed  them  there  in 
good  hands,  under  the  hospitable  roof  of  one  of  Spohr7 s 

21* 


Digitized  by  UjOOQie 


324 


grateful  pupils,  the  director  of  music  Kufferath,  with  whom 
they  passed  some  exceedingly  pleasant  days.  As  the  country 
round  Utrecht  abounds  with  handsome  country  - seats  and 
parks,  these  furnished  occasion  for  frequent  delightful  walks 
with  the  family  of  their  host ; and  the  musical  entertainments 
given  to  Spohr  — a quickly  arranged  organ-concert  got  up  by 
Nieuvenhuisen , the  organist  of  the  cathedral,  and  a grand  sere- 
nade by  torch -light  in  the  evening  — made  the  memory  of 
those  days  worthy  of  being  associated  with  the  pleasing  re- 
miniscences of  his  former  visit. 

On  the  return -journey  Spohr  stopped  a day  at  Cologne, 
where  Hiller , the  director  of  music,  quickly  improvised  a 
brilliant  dinner-party  in  his  honour,  and  afterwards  gratified 
him  with  the  performance  of  some  highly  interesting  musical 
pieces  in  his  own  house.  Hiller  himself  played  with  great 
spirit  a recently  composed  sonata  for  the  pianoforte  of  ex- 
treme difficulty  of  execution,  some  numbers  of  the  comic  opera 
composed  by  him  called:  “Jest,  cunning  and  revenge,”  which  was 
received  with  universal  satisfaction,  and  by  Spohr  in  particular 
with  lively  applause.  This  was  succeeded  later  in  the  evening 
by  a musical  surprise;  the  celebrated  Cologne  choral  society, 
wholly  composed  of  male  voices,  had  assembled  in  all  silence 
in  the  hotel,  and  at  the  door  of  their  honoured  guest  sang 
their  finest  songs  in  the  most  masterly  manner,  which,  together 
with  a spirited  address,  spoken  by  professor  Bischof,  afforded 
him  very  great  pleasure. 

Gratified  in  every  respect  with  his  journey,  Spohr  returned 
to  Cassel,  where,  reinvigorated  and  refreshed,  he  devoted  him- 
self with  his  usual  zeal  and  interest  to  the  materially  lightened 
labours  of  his  office,  shared  now  with  his  young  and  active 
colleague. 

Meanwhile,  at  that  time  was  heard  here  and  there  the 
report  that  it  was  contemplated  to  pension  him  off;  but 
when  he  was  apprised  of  this  by  a friend,  and  it  was 
put  to  him  whether  he  would  not  rather  anticipate  such  an 
intention  by  proposing  himself  to  retire  upon  his  pension,  lie 


Digitized  by 


Google 


325 


replied  with  decision,  that:  his  duty  and  inclination  impelled 
him  alike  to  remain  in  the  performance  of  his  official  en- 
gagements so  long  as  he  could  fulfil  them  satisfactorily.  Thus 
things  remained  on  the  old  footing,  until  on  the  14th.  November, 
both  contrary  to  his  wish  and  expectation,  he  received  the 
following  rescript  from  the  Elector: 

“In  pursuance  of  our  most  gracious  will  and  pleasure, 
we  have  granted  to  the  director-general  of  music  and  court 
Kapellmeister  at  our  court-theatre,  Dr.  Louis  Spohr , by  reason 
of  his  advanced  years,  permission  to  retire  into  private  life,  and 
have  been  further  pleased  to  grant  him  a yearly  pension  of 
1500  Thalers  from  our  court  treasury  from  the  date  of  the 
month  next  ensuing.  The  department  of  our  lord  high  marshall 
of  the  palace  will  make  the  further  dispositions  to  that  effect. 
Cassel,  November  12,  1857.  Friedrich  Wilhelm” 

Painfully  affected  as  Spohr  was  upon  the  receipt  of  this, 
he  with  his  usual  good  sense  soon  overcame  the  shock  of  the 
first  impression  and  contemplated  the  matter  on  its  brighter 
side ; in  which  sense  he  then  gave  expression  to  his  sentiments 
in  his  letters  to  distant  friends,  and  among  others,  in  replying 
shortly  afterwards  to  the  director  of  music  Bott  respecting 
other  affairs,  he  wrote  as  follows  ; “You  do  not  appear  to  have 
yet  learned  that  the  Elector,  without  my  solicitation,  has  placed 
me  in  retirement,  and  although  the  terms  of  my  engage- 
ment specified  that  my  salary  should  be  paid  so  long  as  I 
lived,  he  has  pensioned  me  off  on  1500  Thalers  per  annum. 
It  has  nevertheless  appeared  in  all  the  newspapers,  together 
with  the  account  of  the  festive  form  in  which  I directed  for 
the  last  time  the  opera  of  Jessonda  at  the  theatre.  At  first 
it  gave  me  very  great  pain,  for  I felt  still  perfectly  competent 
to  conduct  the  few  operas  which  latterly  fell  to  my  share.  But 
I soon  learned  to  estimate  my  present  freedom  at  its  real 
value,  and  now  feel  very  glad  that  whenever  I choose  I can 
get  away  by  rail  whithersoever  my  fancy  takes  me!  I have 
submitted  also  to  the  deduction  from  my  salary,  having  been 
informed  that  I should  not  be  able  to  compel  the  payment 


Digitized  by 


Google 


326 


of  the  full  salary  without  a new  law-suit,  and  because  it  was 
repulsive  to  my  feelings  to  take  the  whole  amount  without  per- 
forming any  service  for  it,  and  I can  live  very  well  with  three- 
fourths  of  it  by  means  of  my  savings!” 

Thus  terminated  Spohr's  personal  co-operation  at  opera 
and  concert.  But  that  he  still  cherished  as  warm  an  in- 
terest in  the  latter  his  letters  to  distant  friends  attest,  and 
in  this  spirit  he  wrote  on  December  2‘2nd.  to  Mr.  Liider : 
“Since  we  were  at  your  house,  we  have  had  here  the  second 
subscription  concert!  It  was  the  first  concert  that  took  place 
in  Cassel  without  my  co-operation,  and  at  which  I was  present 
from  beginning  to  end  as  an  auditor.  It  consisted  of  carefully 
rehearsed  music:  the  two  finales  from  “Zemire  and  Azor”  and 
“Euryanthe;”  of  instrumental  music  Mozart's  C major  symphony 
with  the  fugue  (called  Jupiter);  of  concert  things  Beethoven's 
violin  concerto  with  Joachim's  cadences,  and  a concert  piece 
by  Moscheles  for  two  pianofortes,  called  Hommage  a Handel , very 
correctly  and  effectively  played  by  Messrs.  Reiss  and  Tivendelt. 
The  concert  opened  with  the  overture  to  “Rosamunda”  by 
Schubert,  one  of  his  youthful  works,  but  which  is  very  pleasing, 
and  was  quite  new  to  me.  Reiss  has  again  achieved  great 
praise  both  by  his  arrangement  and  by  his  careful  rehearsal 
and  study  of  the  music.”  In  the  same  letter  he  farther  says: 
“We  have  also  had*  again  two  quartet  parties,  and  I am  happy 
to  say,  that  I am  still  all  right  at  the  violin,  only  I must 
always  prepare  myself  a few  days  before,  which  was  not  ne- 
cessary some  years  ago!*” 


* These  quartet  evenings  in  the  society  of  a few  of  the  families  of 
his  most  intimate  friends,  were  always  a source  of  great  pleasure  to 
Spohr.  Every  year,  on  the  approach  of  winter,  he  took  early  steps  for 
their  re-arrangement,  and  generally  opened  the  series  in  his  own  house. 
Painful  as  it  was  to  him  whenever  the  death  of  one  of  the  members  of 
the  circle  caused  a vacancy  therein,  the  loss  of  his  two  oldest  and  most 
faithful  friends,  chief  director  von  Schmerfeld  and  Lord  marshall  von  der 
Malsburg , who  had  died  in  the  two  previous  years,  waB  long  and  deeply 
deplored  by  him. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


327 


The  at  this  time  still  powerful  impulse  to  compose,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  the  dread  of  being  no  longer  capable  of 
producing  anything  good  and  new  on  the  other,  gave  rise  to 
many  painful  struggles  in  the  mind  of  Spohr,  — till  one 
morning  he  entered  his  wife’s  apartment,  and  with  a cheerful 
countenance  announced  to  her  that  he  had  found  the  right 
way  to  get  out  of  the  difficulty.  He  had  resolved  upon  writing 
a requiem,  and  had  already  conceived  some  fine  ideas  for  it; 
he  had  the  greatest  hopes  that  he  would  be  able  to  complete 
it,  and  produce  a worthy  conclusion  to  his  numerous  works. 
In  happy  and  inspired  mood  he  now  immediately  went  to 
work;  and  in  a few  days  wrote  the  first  subjects,  but  this 
pleasure,  like  that  which  he  had  shortly  before  boasted  of  in  his 
quartet  play,  was  soon  dissipated.  On  the  second  day  after 
Christmas  Day,  while  on  his  wonted  way  to  the  reading  room 
of  the  museum  in  the  evening  twilight  he  had  the  misfortune 
to  fall  over  the  stone  steps  at  the  entrance,  and  to  break  his 
left  arm.  Beyond  all  expectation,  nevertheless,  the  fractured 
limb  was  happily  healing  fast,  and  when,  after  a lapse  of 
several  months,  with  anxious  fear  of  the  result,  he  once  more 
took  up  his  violin,  to  draw  the  first  tones  from  it,  the  trial 
seemed  quite  satisfactory.  But  after  several  days’  practice, 
followed  up  with  great  perseverance,  he  nevertheless  became 
convinced  to  his  great  sorrow  that  his  arm  would  never  recover 
its  lost  strength  and  elasticity ; upon  which,  as  in  this  also  he 
could  no  longer  satisfy  himself,  deprived  of  another  of  the 
most  precious  elements  of  his  existence,  with  a grieving  heart 
he  laid  by  his  beloved  violin! 

Meanwhile,  notwithstanding,  many  wished-for  opportunities 
presented  themselves  elsewhere  to  Spohr , to  keep  alive  his  in- 
teiest  in  musical  enjoyments  and  to  cheer  him  with  the  per- 
formance of  his  greater  works.  Scarcely  was  he  recovered 
from  the  fracture  of  his  arm,  than  he  accepted  an  invi- 
tation to  Magdeburg,  to  hear  the  performance  of  his  oratorio, 
“Des  Heilands  letzte  Stunden,*’  which  was  to  take  place  there 
on  Good  Friday.  With  this  performance  he  expressed  himself 


Digitized  by  v^ooQle 


328 


highly  pleased,  in  a letter  to  Mr.  Litters:  “Orchestra,  choruses, 
and  solo-singers  were  alike  excellently  practised  in  their  respec- 
tive parts , and  the  effect,  in  the  churclf  of  St.  Ulrich,  which 
is  so  favorably  constructed  for  sound,  was  indeed  heavenly. 
The  solo-voices,  for  the  most  part  belonging  to  the  Seebach 
choral  society,  were  particularly  fine,  harmonious  and  powerful 
dilettante  singers,  and  led  by  their  director  Muhling  they  were 
so  penetrated  with  the  true  spirit  of  the  composition,  that  I 
was  quite  taken  by  surprise,  and  delighted! 

The  accompaniment  also  of  the  solo  instruments  in  the  grand 
air  of  Mary  in  the  second  part  was  very  fine ; for  Grimm  the  harp- 
ist had  been  sent  for  from  Berlin,  and  the  other  solo  instru- 
ments — violin,  violincello  and  horn  — were  played  by  mem- 
bers of  the  present  orchestra  of  the  Magdeburg  theatre,  who 
are,  as  luck  would  have  it,  virtuosi.” 

In  a similar  letter  of  the  6th.  April  to  Hauptmann , in 
speaking  of  his  further  contemplated  plans  of  journey,  he 
says:  “Whether  all  these  excursions  will  be  carried  into  effect, 
is  not  yet  decided;  but  for  the  rest  of  my  life  my  artistic 
enjoyments  are  limited  to  them;  for  I am  now  perfectly  con- 
vinced, that  I cannot  accomplish  any  great  work  more.  I regret 
to  say,  that  my  last  attempt  of  the  kind  failed,  and  my  re- 
quiem remains  a fragment;  nevertheless,  as  the  subject  as  far 
as  the  Lacrimosa  dies  ilia , at  which  I stuck  fast,  pleases  me 
well,  and  seems  to  have  much  that  is  new  and  ingenious  in 
it,  I shall  not  destroy  it,  as  I should  like  to  take  it  up  again, 
and  will  make  another  attempt  to  complete  it.” 

This  attempt,  to  which  with  much  perseverance  he  devoted 
half  a day,  proved  however  a failure,  and  brought  him  finally 
to  the  avowed  painful  determination  to  relinquish  compo- 
sition entirely ; as  he  did  not  feel  capable  of  putting  his  musigal 
ideas  into  a distinct  shape.  At  the  conclusion  of  the  letter 
adverted  to,  he  says  further:  “I  thank  you  heartily  for  your 
kind  wishes  upon  my  birth  - day ! Notwithstanding  my  pre- 
sent low  spirits  on  account  of  my  artistic  impotency,  I never- 
theless passed  it  agreeably  enough.  That  may  have  arisen 


Digitized  by  Google 


329 


from  my  happily  performed  journey.”  Scarcely  three  weeks  af- 
terwards, Spohr , again  full  of  pleasurable  anticipation,  set  out 
anew,  and  this  time  to  Bremen,  where  the  director  of  music 
Engel  purposed  to  open  his  recently  established  choral  society 
with,  the  public  performance  of  Spohr' s oratorio,  “The  Fall  of 
Babylon,”  a great  undertaking,  but  so  worthily  executed 
that  Spohr  himself  was  greatly  surprised  and  deeply  moved. 

For  the  beginning  of  July  Spohr  had  been  invited  to  Prague, 
where  the  half- centennial  anniversary  of  the  Conservatory  of 
that  city  was  to  be  celebrated  by  three  grand  musical  perform- 
ances — among  which  was  his  opera  “Jessonda.”  The  cele- 
bration of  divine  service  in  the  cathedral  on  the  first  morning 
was  followed  in  the  evening  by  a grand  concert  in  the  theatre. 
It  began  with  a new  Symphony  by  Kittl,  the  director  of  the 
conservatory,  which,  like  the  other  Pieces  <T Ensemble,  was 
performed  by  the  pupils  of  the  institution ; while  the  solo-pieces 
were  executed  by  foreign  resident  musicians  who  had  received 
their  education  there;  among  these,  the  celebrated  violinists 
Dreyschock  and  Laub.  “On  the  second  evening,”  in  the  words 
of  the  “Tagesboten  aus  Bohmen,”  “not  only  in  honour  of  the 
great  musician  present,  but  in  order  to  give  every  true  lover 
of  art  a right  festive  evening,  the  ‘Jessonda’  of  Dr.  Louis 
Spohr  was  selected,  and  Prague  had  this  time  the  satisfaction 
of  seeing  the  inspired  and  still  vigorous  veteran  conduct  the 

performance  of  his  work  himself As  Spohr  took  his 

place  at  the  conductor’s  desk,  which  was  hung  with  wreaths  of 
laurel  and  ornamented  with  a crown  of  the  same,  he  was  received 
by  the  densely  crowded  house,  which  comprised  all  the  leading 
artists  and  lovers  of  music  of  Prague,  with  long  and  enthusiastic 
applause.  At  every  moment  of  interest,  of  which  the  fascina- 
ting “Jessonda,”  (the  not  yet  surpassed  model  of  German  lyrical 
opera)  is  one  uninterrupted  beautiful  chain,  the  most  gratifying 
acclamations  were  first  directed  to  the  master,  and  then  to 
the  singers.  After  the  second  act,  the  venerable  poet  of  sweet 
sounds  was  vehemently  called  forward  upon  the  stage,  as 
also  after  the  last  act,  when  another  crown  of  laurel  was 


Digitized  by 


Google 


330 


thrown  to  him The  conducting  of  the  honoured  master 

Spohr  is  still  marked  by  unimpaired  vigour,  and  attention 
to  every  detail ; his  stroke  of  the  baton  has  its  usual  charac- 
teristic stamp”  &c.  The  concert  spirituel , which  had  been 
arranged  for  the  third  evening,  as  the  finale  to  the  musical 
part  of  the  festival,  comprised  as  chief  subject,  the  ninth  Sym- 
phony of  Beethoven;  but  at  the  grand  dinner  given  on  the 
following  day,  a series  of  select  musical  pieces  was  performed, 
and  the  opportunity  seized,  both  by  loud  calls  for  the  repeti- 
tion of  the  overture  to  “Jessonda,”  and  every  possible  mode 
of  demonstration,  to  honour  Spohr , the  Nestor  of  the  numer- 
ously congregated  musicians,  as  the  king  of  the  feast.  Not 
less  however  than  by  all  these  demonstrations  was  he  gratified 
by  the  kind  anticipation  of  his  wishes  with  the  invitation  to 
visit  the  country-house  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Prague  which 
had  been  hallowed  by  Mozart's  lengthened  residence;  to  which 
the  present  proprietor  Herr  Popelka  himself  accompanied  him, 
to  shew  him  the  room,  which  Spohr  also  looked  upon  as  sacred 
ground,  where  Mozart  had  composed  his  uDon  Juan.” 

Spohr  was  less  fortunate  upon  his  return  journey  in  real- 
ising a long  - cherished  and  ardent  wish.  He  had  for  several 
years  vainly  endeavoured  to  hear  upon  a foreign  stage  Mozart's 
opera  “Idomeneo,”  which  he  had  never  been  able  to  give  a per- 
formance of  in  Cassel.  and  which  was  known  to  him  only  in  the 
pianoforte  selection.  With  this  object  also,  already  in  the  begin- 
ning of  the  summer,  apart  from  and  independent  of  his  subse- 
quently promised  visit  to  Prague,  he  had  projected  a journey 
to  Dresden,  for  the  reason,  as  he  then  expressed  in  a letter 
to  his  friend  Liider  — “that  with  the  constantly  increasing 
dearth  in  the  repertory  of  modern  operas,  an  as  yet  unheard 
opera  of  Mozart  was  too  important  an  event,  and  for  him 
an  artistic  necessity  too  great,  that  he  should  not  joyfully  under- 
take even  a much  longer  journey  to  hear  it.”  Long  previously 
he  had  written  on  the  subject  to  his  friend  the  director  of 
music  Reissiger , and  at  length  thought  to  see  his  hope  realized 
in  Dresden,  either  before  or  after  the  Prague  musical  festivaL 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


331 


Unfortunately,  however,  owing  to  the  absence  of  the  chief 
singers  of  the  opera,  it  could  not  he  carried  out,  and  so,  con- 
soling himself  meanwhile  till  the  autumn,  he  took  the  road 
to  Alexandersbad,  where  during  a pleasant  sojourn  of  a week, 
he  reposed  from  the  exertion  of  the  previous  journey  in  the 
enjoyment  of  the  quiet  relaxation  he  so  much  desired. 

Greatly  gratified,  and  visibly  refreshed  as  Spohr  again 
returned  from  this  pleasant  excursion  to  Alexandersbad,  yet 
from  that  period  he  exhibited  a constantly  increasing  low-spi- 
rited and  thoughtful  mood , which  was  so  opposite  to  his 
former  manner.  To  his  wife,  who  vainly  tried  every  means 
to  cheer  him , he  would  then  reply  after  a protracted  and 
earnest  silence,  that  he  was  weary  of  life,  as  he  could  no 
longer  be  doing;  that  he  had  enjoyed  to  exhaustion  all  that 
mortal  life  could  given,  and  lived  to  see  a more  widely  spread 
recognition  and  love  for  his  music  than  he  even  could  have 
hoped  for,  — that  now  he  ardently  wished  for  death,  before 
the  infirmities  of  old  age  completely  prostrated  him.  Neverthe- 
less he  always  felt  cheerfully  moved  again  by  invitations  to  new 
journeys,  and  musical  enjoyments,  of  which  several  presented 
themselves  in  the  autumn.  In  September  namely,  the  journey 
to  Wiesbaden  to  the  musical  festival  of  the  Middle-Rhine,  and 
in  October  to  Leipsic,  to  the  performance  of  his  own  and 
other  works  which  particularly  interested  him,  at  the  Gewand- 
haus  concert , at  the  conservatory  and  at  the  church , — on 
which  occasions  he  at  both  places  followed  the  musical  per- 
formances with  persevering  interest  and  pleasure,  and  received 
with  lively  satisfaction  the  various  ovations  of  which  he  was 
the  object.  Although  upon  this  journey  to  Leipsic,  and  lastly 
also  to  Dresden,  he  found  no  opportunity  to  realise  his  most 
ardent  expectation  to  hear  the  “Idomeneo,”  he  nevertheless  was 
somewhat  compensated  for  the  disappointment  by  the  kind- 
ness of  the  Frankfort  theatrical  Intendant,  who  on  his  previously 
expressed  wish,  announced  Cherubini's  opera  of  “Medea”  for 
the  evening  of  his  arrival  there,  on  his  way  through  to  Wies- 
baden, and  thus  afforded  him  the  high  enjoyment  of  hearing  that 
classically  beautiful  music. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


332 


As  with  the  decrease  in  the  length  of  the  days  and  with 
the  gloom  of  winter,  the  sleeplessness  and  nervous  excitement 
which  had  affected  him  so  prejudicially  art  Leipsic  also,  increased 
during  the  long  nights,  and  from  that  time  slowly  but  obviously 
augmented ; leaving  as  their  result  a still  greater  debility  and 
uneasiness  during  the  day;  his  cheerfulness  abandoned  him  en- 
tirely. — Shortly  after  his  visit  to  Leipsic,  where  the  orchestral 
pieces  under  the  excellent  direction  of  Rietz  gave  him  especial 
pleasure,  he  wrote  among  other  things  to  Hauptmann  . . . . 
“I  cannot  express  to  you  how  this  time  all  the  music  I heard 
in  Leipsic  pleased  me.  . . . From  the  devotional  sentiment 
which  your  motette  raised  in  me  on  Sunday,  I envy  you  not 
a little  the  energy  with  which  you  still  continue  to  work, 
while  with  me  it  is  all  over  with  composing  and  with  violin 
playl  Yesterday  I received  from  Zellner , the  musical  critic  at 
Vienna,  the  intelligence  that  one  of  my  oratorios  is  to  be  per- 
formed there,  and  he  invited  me  on  the  part  of  the  originators 
of  the  design,  to  come  and  direct  it  myself.  For  several 
years  the  Austrian  society  had  contemplated  giving  my  ‘Fall 
of  Babylon’  as  a musical  festival  in  the  Imperial  Riding  School ; 
but  then,  even  with  the  aid  of  Mettemich , I could  not  get  per- 
mission to  go  there.  Now,  when  I could  get  away,  as  I am 
an  invalid,  and  the  journey  too  far  and  fatiguing,  I am  obliged 
to  renounce  it.  I shall  therefore  decline  the  invitation  and 
content  myself  with  shorter  journeys  in  the  fine  season  of  the 
year.  But  on  such  occasions,  struggles  with  my  inclinations 
and  low  spirits  always  follow!  and  so  one  is  induced  to  envy 
the  lot  of  several  who  were  personally  known  to  me,  who  of 
late  died  suddenly. ...”  Impressed  with  similar  painful  thoughts 
and  not  without  many  inward  struggles,  Spohr  wrote  the  letter 
to  decline  the  invitation  that  he  received  at  that  time  to 
Konigsberg,  to  the  centenary  Handel  Festival,  where  he  had 
been  chosen  to  direct  the  magnificent  “Messiah”  and  one  of 
his  own  works ; and  where  it  was  intended  to  pay  to  him,  as 
sole  worthy  representative  of  the  great  Handel , all  the  homage 


Digitized  by  Google 


333 


and  honours  which  could  not  be  rendered  to  H&ndel  personally, 
in  all  the  overflowing  fulness  of  their  warmth.”* 

As  Spohr  for  many  years  had  been  considered  by  the  whole 
musical  world  as  the  highest  authority  in  everything  that 
pertained  to  his  art,  a day  seldom  passed  without  bringing 
applications  or  requests  of  some  kind,  frequently  from  the 
most  distant  localities,  which  his  ever-ready  disposition  to  oblige 
never  permitted  him  to  leave  unnoticed,  but  to  which,  now 
although  with  a heavy  heart,  he  was  more  and  more  com- 
pelled to  waive  replying.  One  application  nevertheless  may  here 
be  mentioned,  which,  coming  at  a particularly  favourable  mo- 
ment, rekindled  his  zest  to  make  a last  essay  at  composition, 
and  which  in  reality  also  was  his  last!  For  many  years  he 
had  been  repeatedly  solicited  in  the  most  irresistible  words 
by  Mr.  Chr . Schad , the  publisher  of  the  Almanack  of  the 
German  Muses,  to  write  a few  little  songs  for  it,  and  Spohr 
had  each  time  the  satisfaction  to  learn  that  those  willingly 
bestowed  little  contributions  were  received  with  a more  than 
usual  approbation.  In  the  autumn  of  1857,  when  with  con- 
siderable timidity  he  had  endeavoured  to  satisfy  Mr  SchcuTs 
urgent  wish  for  a composition  for  the  words  of  the  old  ballad 
of  Walter  von  der  Vogelweide , “the  silent  nightingale,”  he  re- 
ceived a very  poetical  letter  of  thanks  expressing  the  writers 
“admiration  of  the  musical  sentiment  and  depth  of  feeling 
with  which  the  beautiful  ballad  had  been  rendered  by  the  com- 
poser,” and  that  “it  is  a great  satisfaction  for  a German  heart 
that  two  masters  of  his  nation,  although  separated  by  an  interval 
of  six  hundred  years,  should  have  exhibited  the  rich  treasures 


* To  the  many  marks  of  honour  which  Spohr  still  received  in  the 
latter  years  of  his  life  must  be  added  also  his  nomination  to  the  honorary 
membership  of  the  “Musical  Society/’  which  had  just  previously  been 
instituted  in  London.  Upon  the  occasion  of  his  presentation  with  this 
diploma,  an  enumeration  of  the  various  diplomas  which  he  had  already 
been  presented  with  gave  an  amount  of  Thirty  -eight , among  which  was 
one  from  New  York,  from  Buenos-Ayres,  St.  Petersburg,  and  Stockholm, 
with  two  from  Rome  and  two  from  Holland. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


334 


of  their  inmost  feelings,  in  so  noble,  so  simple  and  so  har- 
monious a form  of  words  and  tone,”  &c.  Now  at  length,  in 
October  1858,  six  months  after  having  laid  aside  his  incom- 
pleted  requiem  as  his  last  composition,  he  received  another 
letter,  beginning  with  the  words:  “Your  silent  nightingale 
which  built  her  harmonious  nest  in  the  thick  verdure  of  last 
year’s  Almanack  of  the  Muses,  has  met  with  the  loudest  ap- 
probation of  the  German  nation  for  the  very  eloquence  of 
that  silence.  And  who  better  than  the  loved  great  master 
Spohr  would  know  how  to  utter  sounds  more  replete  with 
the  soul’s  harmony,  — wrho  know  how  to  move  more  deeply 
and  purely  a German  heart!  No  wonder  is  it  that  I again 
knock  at  your  door  to-day.  I come  in  the  name  of,  and  at 
the  request  of,  more  than  eighty  of  the  best  hearts  and  heads 
in  Germany,  who  have  chosen  me  as  their  standard-bearer 
for  a noble  patriotic  object. ...  I lay  before  you  three  of  the 
most  beautiful  of  Gothe's  songs  for  your  unrestricted  choice,  and 
resign  myself  to  the  pleasing  hope  of  seeing  one  or  the  other 
enveloped  in  a melodious  garb  by  your  master-hand.”  And, 
indeed,  already  on  the  following  morning  his  wife  heard  with 
joyful  emotion  the  sound  of  the  long-silent  keys  of  the  piano- 
forte, in  his  room,  and  his  still  pleasing  voice  as  he  sang  in 
accompaniment.  A few  hours  afterwards  he  came  also  with 
a look  of  pleasure  to  fetch  her,  to  sing  to  her  forthwith  the 
new  music  he  had  composed  to  Goethe's  uHerz,  mein  Herz, 
was  soli  das  geben,”  having  already  completed  it  as  regarded 
the  chief  thing;  though  the  rhythm  and  conclusion  not  being 
yet  to  his  fancy,  would  require  a longer  time  to  finish.  When 
however,  his  wife,  greatly  pleased  with  the  lively,  pretty  melody, 
could  not  refrain  from  making  the  observation  that  it  had  a 
very  striking  resemblance  to  Beethoven's  composition  to  the 
same  words,  he  assured  her  that  he  had  no  knowledge  of  it, 
or  at  least  no  recollection  of  it  at  all,  but  expressed  the  wish 
to  have  it  procured,  in  order  to  satisfy  himself  of  the  resem- 
blance. — With  his  own  song  he  was  now  tolerably  satisfied, 
and  said,  with  truth  also,  that  it  would  have  a very  good 


Digitized  by 


Google 


335 


effect,  if  those  who  sung  it  did  not  spoil  it  by  too  slow  a Tempo , 
as  was  so  frequently  the  case  with  his  compositions,  a remark 
which  is  in  so  far  characteristic,  as  Spohr , so  often  as  he 
heard  his  works  performed  abroad,  or  not  under  his  own  im- 
mediate direction,  always  felt  annoyed  by  the  time  being  taken 
frequently  too  slow , but  scarcely  ever  complained  of  one  taken 
too  fast.  When  at  length  the  new  song  was  studied  under 
his  superin  tendance  by  his  niece  Emma  Spohr , who,  gifted 
with  a fine  voice,  always  sung  songs  of  the  kind  in  the  family- 
circle,  he  sang  to  her  himself  with  the  most  lively  emotion, 
and  with  almost  breathless  rapidity,  the  three  closely  following 
strophes,  without  interlude,  to  encourage  her  to  a similar  exe- 
cution. But  a few  weeks  afterwards,  when  he  again  caught 
sight  of  the  manuscript,  he  said,  with  a sorrowful  expression 
of  face,  that  the  song  was  worthless,  and  regretted  that  he 
had  sent  it  for  publication  in  the  Almanack  of  the  Muses  1 
As  evidence  of  his  restless  impulse  to  be  usefully  active, 
one  instance  may  here  be  adduced: 

When,  after  breaking  his  arm,  he  was  compelled  to  give 
up  violin  playing  himself,  he  thought  also  that  he  could  no 
longer  give  satisfaction  as  a Teacher  of  his  instrument;  he 
had  dismissed  his  last  violin  pupils,  young  persons  without 
pecuniary  means  whom  he  instructed  from  a humane  feeling 
and  zeal  for  the  art.  — But  now,  in  December  1858,  he  again 
resumed  his  labours  as  a beneficent  instructor,  and  expressed 
himself  to  Hauptmann  upon  the  subject  in  the  following  words: 
“In  order  still  to  be  somewhat  actively  engaged  in  the  cause 
of  art,  1 have  commenced  giving  pianoforte  lessons  gratis  to 
a young  lady  who  wishes  to  qualify  herself  for  a teacher  of 
that  instrument.  But  when  it  is  requisite  to  play  anything 
to  my  pupil,  1 am  of  course  obliged  to  call  my  wife  or  sister- 
in-law  to  my  assistance.’ 9 

In  this  manner,  the  this  time  especially  dreaded  winter,  — 
his  last  — had  come!  On  New  Year’s  morning  1859,  after  a 
sleepless  and  restless  night  passed  in  a state  of  painful  nervous 
excitement,  be  received  in  earnest  silence  the  wishes  of  the 


Digitized  by 


Google 


336 


season  from  his  family  and  friends,  — but  still  looked  forward 
with  hope  to  a “fine  spring  and  summer,”  which  he  contemplated 
passing  happily  once  more,  partly  at  home  among  his  favorite 
flowers,  and  partly  in  little  journeys.  For  such  journeys,  which 
his  friends  always  designated  as  “little  triumphal  excursions,” 
the  most  alluring  invitations  had  again  long  been  received 
from  all  sides,  but  of  these  of  course  he  could  only  accept 
those  which  were  to  places  most  easily  accessible.  When  upon 
such  occasions  with  an  effusion  of  grateful  satisfaction  he  gave 
utterance  to  his  feelings  in  the  words : “It  often  seems  to 
me  as  though  all  the  world  thought  only  of  conferring  upon 
me  a very  feast  of  pleasure  before  I die,”  it  was  unfortu- 
nately always  followed  by  the  sad  addition : “but  no  one  knows 
how  miserable  I feel,  and  no  one  can  relieve  me  of  my 
sufferings.”  — With  almost  morbid  impatience  he  now  looked 
forward  to  the  next  spring,  when  he  had  proposed  to  himself, 
at  the  special  request  of  John  J.  Bott , who  was  now  appointed 
director  of  music  at  the  court  orchestra  of  Meiningen,  to  pro- 
ceed thither,  to  direct  the  concert  which  was  then  to  be  given 
for  the  benefit  of  the  widow’s  relief  fund.  The  few  hours 
occupied  by  the  journey  on  the  newly -opened  Werra  railway 
were  easy  and  comfortable  to  him,  and  upon  his  reception 
at  the  terminus  of  Meiningen  Spohr  was  particularly  gratified 
at  meeting  once  more  both  his  favorite  pupils  Grand  and  Bott, 
who  greeted  their  honoured  master  with  expressions  of  the 
heartiest  welcome,  and  who  the  next  day  were  unwearied  in 
showing  their  grateful  attachment  to  him  in  every  possible  manner. 
Immediately  on  the  first  evening,  as  a further  festive  welcome,  a 
grand  serenade  by  torch-light  was  given  to  him,  in  which  under 
Bott's  conducting  (in  the  Spohr  style),  male  choral  and  four- 
part-songs  interchanged  alternately  with  the  music  of  the  full 
orchestra;  and  at  the  close,  at  the  moment  when  the  cheers 
of  the  assembled  crowds  were  loudest,  the  whole  living  mass 
was  suddenly  illumined  by  the  coloured  fires  of  a brilliant 
sun,  which  disclosed  also  to  view,  as  though  by  magic,  the  fine 
parks  opposite  the  house.  At  the  rehearsal  for  the  concert 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


337 


on  the  following  evening,  Spohr  found  all  the  musical  pieces 
so  carefully  studied  and  in  accordance  with  all  his  intentions, 
that  he  could  look  forward  with  pleasing  certainty  to  its  per- 
formance on  the  next  evening,  and  the  more  so,  as  the  two 
directors  of  music,  Grund  and  Bott , felt  an  especial  pleasure 
in  resuming  their  former  places  under  the  direction  of  their 
master,  as  co-operating  violinists  in  the  orchestra,  and  in  thus 
giving  him  the  most  powerful  support. 

The  “Meininger  Tageblatt”  makes  mention  of  the  concert 
in  the  following  terms:  “Upon  the  stage,  between  branches 
of  palm  and  laurel,  was  placed  a collossal  bust  of  Spohr.  The 
conductor’s  desk  had  been  decorated  by  female  hands  with 
ingenious  devices  and  garlands  of  flowers.  The  house,  filled 
to  overflowing,  awaited  in  breathless  suspense  the  appearance 
of  the  famed  old  master.  ‘He  comes !’....  was  whispered 
through  the  spacious  house,  and  a thousand  - tongued  wel- 
come of  joy  greeted  the  honoured  man.  In  a few  minutes 
afterwards  he  had  lifted  the  conductor  s baton  — a solemn 
silence  immediately  ensued;  and  in  a few  moments  the  first 
notes  of  the  symphony  “Die  Weihe  der  Tone”  resounded. 
The  eyes  of  all  were  directed  to  the  Nestor  of  the  science 
of  music,  who  brought  to  our  mind  the  Olympian  Jove  — 
omnia  supercilio  moventis.  All  the  orchestral  assistants  felt 
the  importance  of  the  moment,  and  lent  their  most  efficient 
aid.  The  same  calm  which  everywhere  breathes  through  the 
works  of  this  musician  was  seen  also  in  his  conducting.  Not 
the  least  fraction  of  a beat  was  thrown  away  — in  all  and 
everywhere,  were  seen  the  director  of  orchestra  and  the  mu- 
sicians, as  a grand  impersonated  whole,  achieving  in  every 
part  a fresh  triumph.  The  honoured  poet  of  sweet  sounds 
directed  besides  his  grand  symphony,  five  other  of  his  works, 
and  with  so  steady  a hand,  that  the  crowded  house  was 
filled  with  admiration.”  . . . This  part  of  the  concert  in  which 
Spohr  wielded  for  the  last  time  the  conductor’s  baton,  com- 
prised among  the  rest,  his  concertante  in  H minor , which 
was  executed  by  director  of  music  Bott  and  concert  - master 

8P0HB,  Autobiography.  II.  22 


Digitized  by  Google 


338 


Muller  in  a masterly  manner,  and  gave  him  great  pleasure.  In 
appropriate  choice  followed  the  overture  to  the  “Mountain  Sprite,’ ' 
with  which  thirty  - four  years  before  he  had  opened  the  festive 
celebration  of  the  marriage  of  the  ducal  pair.  As  upon  that 
occasion  the  exalted  couple  listened  with  pleasure  to  the  tones 
of  the  master,  and  exhibited  a warm  interest  not  only  by 
their  presence  at  the  rehearsal  and  performance,  but  by  the 
most  marked  attentions;  and  the  duke,  who  many  years  pre- 
viously had  presented  Spohr  with  the  cross  of  knighthood  of 
the  order  of  the  house  of  Saxe -Ernest,  changed  it  upon  this 
occasion  for  the  grand  cross  of  the  order.  — The  last  evening 
in  Meiningen  was  further  celebrated  in  honour  of  Spohr  by  a 
grand  masonic  fete,  which  afforded  him  no  less  gratification; 
as  also  a hearty  written  testimony  of  thanks  addressed  to 
him  by  the  intendant  of  the  court  orchestra,  Mr.  von  Lilien- 
cron , from  which,  as  it  refers  to  Spohr'1  s last  appearance  as 
conductor,  we  may  here  cite  some  words,  which  will  perpetuate 
the  memory  of  that  day:  “The  house  filled  to  the  very  ut- 
most, — the  enthusiastic  acclamations,  — the  flowers  and 
wreaths,  testified  to  you  yesterday,  how  fascinated  we  all  were 
by  your  tones,  how  deeply  moved  at  the  sight  of  the  loved 
and  highly  honoured  master.  If  the  recollection  of  that  de- 
lightful evening  will  remain  indelibly  impressed  upon  all  who 
were  present,  so  will  the  benign  purpose  of  that  concert  im- 
press the  recollection  of  your  appearance  among  us;  for  in 
future  years,  when  it  shall  be  read  what  was  presented  on 
the  12th.  April  1859  to  the  widows  and  orphans  by  the  court 
orchestra  of  Meiningen,  it  will  be  said:  that  was  the  day  on 
which  Spohr , the  master,  wielded  the  conductor’s  baton  in 
our  midst.” 

A second  journey  undertaken  shortly  after  by  Spohr , was 
to  the  pleasant  little  princely  residence  of  Detmold,  where  he 
was  again  welcomed  by  a grateful  pupil,  the  director  of  music 
Kiel,  and  its  art-loving  prince,  in  a similar  manner  as  in 
Meiningen,  with  two  successive  days  of  festivities  in  his  honour. 
The  proffered  direction  of  a grand  concert  solely  embracing 


Digitized  by 


Google 


339 


his  own  compositions  he  had  firmly  declined,  and  as  auditor 
could  therefore  give  himself  up  more  completely  to  the  en- 
joyment of  his  own  excellently  performed  music,  two  numbers 
of  which  in  particular  afforded  him  exceeding  pleasure;  the 
performance  namely  by  his  former  pupils  Kiel  and  concert- 
master  Bargheer . who  together  executed  his  A minor  con- 
certante,  and  the  symphony  “Die  Jahreszeiten”  — a favorite 
and  prominent  point  of  excellence  with  the  court  orchestra 
of  Detmold  — and  which  he  had  especially  chosen  by  a pre- 
viously communicated  request. 

Returned  once  more  to  Cassel  after  a week  happily  passed 
in  the  midst  of  the  enjoyment  of  art  and  nature,  Spohr  un- 
happily could  no  longer  conceal  from  himself,  that  even  these 
short  journeys  were  now  followed  by  many  painful  results, 
in  the  shape  of  a yet  more  increased  nervous  restlessness  at 
night  — yet  his  spirit  soon  yearned  agaiu  for  diversity  and  change 
of  place,  and  especially  towards  his  favorite  Alexandersbad, 
where  he  confidently  hoped  a longer  stay  in  the  fine  air  of  that 
locality  would  again  induce  an  improvement  in  his  health, 
and  particularly  restore  his  sleep  at  night.  Strengthened  in 
this  belief  by  the  opinion  of  his  ever- sympathising  and  watch- 
ful medical  allendant  Dr.  Ad.  Hamier . he  set  out  for  Alexanders- 
bad, where  he  remained  some  weeks.  His  health  improved, 
and  he  passed  better  nights.  But  on  his  return  he  visited 
Wurzburg,  and  was  present  at  the  performance  of  his  “Letzte 
Dinge;”  and  this,  and  his  reception,  and  the  leave-taking, 
made  such  an  impression  on  him,  that  it  went  far  to  neutral- 
ize the  improvement  in  his  health  that  had  taken  place  at 
Alexandersbad. 

His  pleasure  at  hearing  good  music  remained  with  him 
to  the  last,  for  which  reason  he  never  missed  a concert,  and 
even  frequeftly  went  to  the  theatre,  where  above  all  things 
the  music  so  dear  to  his  heart  — the  operas  of  Mozart  — ever 
filled  him  anew  with  the  fresh  transports  of  a youthful  joy.  — 
At  home  he  passed  the  greater  part  of  the  day  in  reading, 
but  no  longer  as  formerly  in  that  of  political  journals  and 

22* 


Digitized  by 


Google 


340 


instructive  scientific  works,  which  had  excited  and  absorbed 
his  interest,  — he  now  delighted  rather  in  entertaining  moral 
works,  simple  novels  that  appealed  to  the  heart,  and  the  like, 
which  for  the  time  distracted  his  attention  from  his  suffering 
condition.  — At  frequent  intervals  he  would  request  his  wife 
to  play  something  to  him,  and  herein  he  would  shew  a pre- 
ference for  the  pianoforte  music  of  Bach  and  Mendelssohn , 
yet  without  withdrawing  his  interest  from  the  productions  of 
more  modern  composers. 

A pleasing  diversion  in  the  uniform  sameness  of  his  every- 
day life,  was  afforded  to  him  in  the  first  days  of  October  by 
a visit  to  the  princess  Anna , wife  of  prince  Frederick,  the 
heir  apparent  to  the  Hessian  throne,  at  the  express  invi- 
tation of  that  princess,  during  a residence  of  some  days  at 
Cassel  in  the  Bellevue  palace.  Upon  his  return  he  related 
with  feelings  of  pleasure  the  amiable  anticipatory  attentions 
of  the  princess,  who,  in  consideration  of  Spohr's  greater  con- 
venience, had  descended  with  her  husband  and  child,  prince 
Wilhelm,  then  five  years  old,  to  an  apartment  on  the  ground - 
floor,  where  he  was  received,  and  where  after  a lengthened 
pleasing  conversation  with  the  princely  pair,  she,  at  the  con- 
clusion, besought  him  with  the  most  winning  kindliness  of  manner, 
to  write  a few  lines  by  way  of  souvenir  in  her  album.  In 
satisfaction  of  this  request,  on  the  7th.  October,  he  wrote, 
though  indeed  with  a weak  and  tremulous  hand,  yet  with 
his  usual  readiness,  a particularly  requested  passage  of  the 
well-known  duett  in  “Jessonda,”  in  the  costly  album  that  had 
been  forwarded  to  his  house. 

On  Sunday  the  16th.  October,  a change,  at  first  scarcely 
observable,  evinced  itself  in  his  condition:  an  expression  of 
calm  contentment  such  as  not  had  been  seen  for  a long  time, 
settled  on  his  features;  in  spite  of  the  precefling  restless 
night,  of  the  obvious  continual  bodily  sufferings  and  increasing 
debility  no  more  complainings  were  heard  to  fall  from  his 
lips;  yet  he  was  more  than  usually  silent,  and  though  he 
replied  in  a kind  tone  to  every  inquiry  adressed  to  him,  it 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


341 


was  as  short  as  possible.  Id  the  afternoon,  on  rising  from  the 
dinner  - table , he  stood  for  a long  time  at  the  open  door  of 
the  house,  musing  as  he  gazed  upon  the  rich  autumnal  beauties 
of  his  flower  - garden,  — but  upon  the  proposition  of  his  wife 
to  take  his  coffee  outside  under  the  bower,  he  replied,  that  he 
wished  to  take  it  that  day  in  his  room,  and  that  she  with 
her  sister  would  play  something  to  him.  This  of  course  was 
with  pleasure  immediately  complied  with.  After  he  had  listened 
to  some  symphonies  arranged  for  four  hands,  — apparently 
as  though  half-lost  in  a dream,  yet  as  might  be  inferred  from 
many  remarks  that  fell  from  him,  with  much  attention,  he 
requested  further  by  way  of  conclusion,  his  newest  quintet 
(Op.  144,  G-minor)  with  the  piano-forte  arrangement  of  which 
for  four  hands  he  had  but  shortly  before  become  acquainted; 
to  this  also  he  listened  with  full  interest  and  obvious  satis- 
faction. After  the  last  theme  he  inquired  : “How  long  ago 
may  it  be  that  I wrote  that?”  and  when  his  wife,  who  could 
not  immediately  remember  the  year,  replied  it  might  be  per- 
haps three  or  four  years  ago,  — he  said  with  a sigh:  “Then 
there  I did  still  succeed  in  effecting  it!  and  now  I can  no 
longer  do  so!”  With  these  words  he  rose  from  his  chair,  to 
prepare  for  his  customary  evening  walk  to  the  reading  rooms, 
which,  despite  all  his  weakness  and  some  admonitions  from 
his  wife,  he  nevertheless  slowly,  and  supported  by  her,  still 
persevered  in.  But  feeling  exceedingly  anxious  at  home  res- 
pecting him,  she  despatched  a devotedly  attached  servant  to 
see  after  him,  much  earlier  than  he  had  been  ordered  to  bring 
him  back : upon  which,  in  a condition  of  extreme  debility,  he 
immediately  permitted  himself  to  be  led  home,  and  shortly 
after  his  frugal  supper  to  be  put  to  bed.  After  the  usual 
parting  evening  kiss,  he  said  to  his  wife:  “he  hoped  from 
being  so  tired  he  should  at  length  have  a good  night's  rest  ” — 
and  thereupon  sank  into  a soft  slumber  from  which  he  did 
not  awake  till  the  next  morning  and  then  with  a cheerful 
mien.  He  had  found  the  much -desired  repose,  he  felt  no 
longer  any  bodily  suffering,  the  serene  expression  of  his  coun- 


Digitized  by 


Google 


— 342 


tenance  betokened  it  from  that  moment  to  his  last  breath! 
To  rise  he  refused;  neither  would  he  take  breakfast;  but 
requested  his  wife  to  sit  on  the  bed  beside  him ; took 
her  hand,  and  kissed  it  tenderly,  with  an  affectionate  ex- 
pression in  his  kindly  beaming  eyes  that  spoke  to  her  more 
eloquently  than  could  a thousand  words.  Shortly  afterwards 
his  attentive  physician  arrived,  and  immediately  perceived 
that  a higher  power  had  granted  to  him  the  long -desired 
rest.  His  family  was  already  prepared  for  the  approaching 
heart-rending  separation.  His  children  and  nephews,  near  and 
distant  friends,  hastened  to  his  couch,  all  desirous  to  look  as 
long  as  possible  on  his  loved  and  honoured  face,  each  glad  to 
snatch  one  look  more  from  his  truthful  loving  eyes!  In  this 
manner  he  lay,  surrounded  by  all  that  were  most  dear  to 
him  in  life,  in  calm  repose;  from  clay  to  clay  with  decreasing 
consciousness  of  existence;  in  spirit  mayhap,  already  apper- 
taining to  a higher  world,  — until  the  evening  of  the  22nd. 
Oct.  (1859),  when  at  half-past  ten  his  weary  eyes  closed  for 
ever!  

The  pious  tones  which  once  with  a holy  inspiration  had 
gushed  from  the  pure  fount  of  his  soul  — tones  to  which  he 
had  himself  listened  in  silent  devotion  but  a few  weeks  be- 
fore, — resounded  now  in  mourning  over  his  grave;  and  sad 
and  sorrowful,  though  at  the  same  time  sweetly  cousolatory, 
still  echo  far  and  wide  to  the  hearts  of  all : 

“Blessed  are  the  dead,  who  die  in  the  Lord,  now  and 
for  ever.  They  repose  from  their  labours,  and  their 
works  follow  them!” 


Finis. 


Digitized  by  Google 


Digitized  by 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


39  Paternoster  Row,  E.C. 
London,  Juns  1864. 


GENERAL  LIST  OF  WORKS, 


NEW  BOOKS  AND  NEW  EDITIONS, 

PUBLISHED  BY 

Messrs.  LONGMAN,  OMEN,  LONGMAN,  ROBERTS,  and  GREEN. 


Arts,  Manufactures,  &c. 11 

Astronomy,  Mbtborolooy,  Popular 

Gbooraphy,  &c 7 

Biography  and  Memoirs 3 . 

Chemistry,  Mbdicknb,  Surgery,  and 

the  Allied  Scibncbs 9 

Commerce,  Navigation,  and  Mercan- 
tile Affairs  19 

Criticism,  Philology,  &c 4 

Fine  Arts  and  Illustrated  Editions  1 1 

General  and  School  Atlases 20 

Historical  Works 1 

Index' * 21 — 24 


a 

Miscellaneous  and  Popular  Meta- 


physical Works 6 

Natural  History  and  Popular 

Scibnch*^ 8 

Periodical  Publications 20 

Poetry  and  the  Drama 17 

Religious  Works  13 

Bural  Sports,  &c. 18 

Travels,  Voyages,  &c. 15 

Works  of  Fiction ,..  16 

Works  of  Utility  and  General  In- 
formation   19 


Historical  Works. 


The  History  of  England  from 
the  Fall  of  Wolsey  to  the  Death  of  Eliza- 
beth. By  James  Anthony  Fro  ode,  MA 
late  Fellow  of  Exeter  College,  Oxford. 

Vols.  L to  IV.  the  Beign  of  Henry 
VIU.  Second  Edition,  54s. 

Vols.  V.  and  VI.  the  Reigns  of  Edward 
VI.  and  Mary.  Second  Edition,  28s. 

Vols.  VII.  and  VIII.  the  Reign  of 
Elizabeth,  Vols.  L and  IL  Third  Edi- 
tion, 28s. 

The  History  of  England  from 

the  Accession  of  James  IL  By  Lord 
Macaulay.  Three  Editions,  as  follows. 

Library  Edition,  5 vols.  8ro.  £4. 
Cabinet  Edition,  8 vols.  post  8vo.  48s. 
People's  Edition,  4 vols.  crown  8 yo.  16s. 

Bevolutions  in  English  History. 
By  Robert  Vaughan,  D.D.  3vols.8vo.45s. 
Vol.  I.  Revolutions  of  Race,  15s. 

Vol.  II.  Revolutions  in  Religion,  15s. 
Vol.  III.  Revolutions  in  Government,  15s. 


The  History  of  England  during 

the  Reign  of  George  the  Third.  By 
William  Massey,  M.P.  4 vols.  8vo.  48s. 

The  Constitutional  History  of 
England,  since  the  Accession  of  George  III. 
1760 — 1860.  By  Thomas  Erskine  Mat, 
C.B.  2 vols.  8vo.  83s. 

laves  of  the  Queens  of  England, 

from  State  Papers  and  other  Documentary 
Sources : comprising  a Domestic  Histoiy  of 
England  from  the  Conquest  to  tho  Death  of 
Queen  Anne.  By  Agnes  Strickland. 
Revised  Edition,  with  many  Portraits. 
8 vols.  post  8vo.  60s. 

Lectures  on  the  History  of  Eng- 
land. By  William  Longman.  Vol.  I. 
from  the  Earliest  Times  to  the  Death  of 
King  Edward  IL  with  6 Maps,  a coloured 
Plate,  and  53  Woodcuts.  8vo.  15s. 

A Chronicle  of  England,  from  b.c. 
55  to  a.d.  1485 ; written  and  illustrated  by 
J.  E.  Doyle.  With  81  Designs  engraved 
on  Wood  and  printed  in  Colours  by 
E.  Evans.  4 to.  42s. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


2 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


History  of  Civilization.  By  Henry 
Thomas  Buckle.  2 vols.  £1 17*. 

Vol.  I.  England  and  France  Fourth 
Edition,  21s. 

Vol.  II.  Spam  and  Scotland,  Second 
Edition,  16*. 

Democracy  in  America.  By  Alexis 

De  Tocqueville.  Translated  by  Henry 
Reeve,  with  an  Introductory  Notice  by  the 
Translator.  2 vols.  8vo.  21*. 

The  Spanish  Conquest  in 
America,  and  its  Relation  to  the  History  of 
Slavery  and  to  the  Government  of  Colonies. 
Bv  Arthur  Helps.  4 • vols.  8vo.  £8. 
Vols.  I.  & II.  28*.  Vols.  m.  & IV.  16*.  each. 

History  of  the  Reformation  in 
Europe  in  the  Time  of  CalviB.  By  J.  H. 
Merle  D’Aubigne,  D.D.  Vols.  I.  and 
II.  8vo.  28*.  and  Vol.  III.  12*. 

Library  History  of  France,  in 
5 vols.  8vo.  By  Eyre  Evans  Crowe. 
Vol.  I.  14*.  Vol.  II.  16*.  Vol.  III.  18*. 
Vol.  IV.  nearly  ready. 

Lectures  on  the  History  of 

France.  By  the  late  Sir  James  Stephen, 
LL.D.  2 vols.  8 vo.  24*. 

The  History  of  Greece.  ByC.THim.- 
wall,  D.D.  Lord  Bishop  of  St.  David's. 
8 vols.  8vo.  £8 ; or  in  8 vols.  fcp.  28*. 

The  Tale  of  the  Great  Persian 

War,  from  the  Histories  of  Herodotus.  By 
the  Rev.  G.  W.  Cox,  M.A.  late  Scholar  of 
Trin.  Coll.  Oxon.  Fcp.  8vo.  7*.  6 d. 

Ancient  History  of  Egypt,  As- 
syria, and  Babylonia.  By  the  Author  of 
* Amy  Herbert.’  Fcp.  8vo.  6*. 

Critical  History  of  the  Lan- 
guage and  Literature  of  Ancient  Greece. 
By  William  Mure,  of  Caldwell,  5 vols. 
8 vo.  £8  9*. 

History  of  the  Literature  of 

Ancient  Greece.  By  Professor  K.  O.  M u llbr. 
Translated  by  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  George 
Corn ew all  Lewis,  Bart  and  by  J.  W. 
Donaldson,  D.D.  8 vols.  8vo.  86*. 

History  of  the  Romans  under 
the  Empire.  By  the  Rev.  Charles  Mxri- 
valb,  B.D.  7 vols.  8vo.  with  Maps,  £5. 


The  Fall  of  the  Roman  Re- 
public : a Short  History  of  the  Last  Cen- 
tury of  the  Commonwealth.  By  the  Rev. 
Charles  Mertcale,  B.D.  12mo.  7*.  6 d. 

Critical  and  Historical  Essays 

contributed  to  the  Edinburgh  Review . By 
the  Bight  Hon.  Lord  Macaulay. 

Library  Edition,  3 vols.  8vo.  86*. 
Traveller’s  Edition,  in  1 voi.  21a. 

In  Pocket  Volumes,  8 vols.  fcp.  21*. 
People’s  Edition,  2 vols.  crown  8vo. 

The  Biographical  History  of 

Philosophy,  from  its  Origin  in  Greece  to 
the  Present  Day.  By  George  Henet 
Lewes.  Revised  and  enlarged  Edition. 
8vo.  16*. 

History  of  the  Inductive  Sciences. 

By  William  Whewkll,  D.D.  F.R.S.  Master 
of  Trin.  Coll.  Cantab.  Third  Edition.  3 vole, 
crown  8vo.  24*. 

Egypt’s  Place  in  Universal  His- 
tory ; an  Historical  Investigation.  By 
C.  C.  J.  Bunsen,  D.D.  Translated  by 
C.  H.  Cottrell,  M.A  With  many  Illus- 
trations. 4 vols.  8vo.  £5  8*.  Vol.  V.  is 
nearly  ready. 

Mannder’s  Historical  Treasury ; 
comprising  a General  Introductory  Outline 
of  Universal  History,  and  a Series  of  Sepa- 
rate Histories.  Fcp.  8vo.  10*. 

Historical  and  Chronological  En- 
cyclopaedia, presenting  in  a brief  and  con- 
venient form  Chronological  Notices  of  all 
the  Great  Events  of  Universal  History.  By 
B.  B.  Woodward,  F.S.A.  Librarian  to  the 
Queen.  [/a  the  preen. 

History  of  Christian  Missions ; 
their  Agents  and  their  Results.  By  T.  W.  M. 
Marshall.  2 vols.  8vo.  24*. 

History  of  the  Early  Church, 

from  the  First  Preaching  of  the  Gospel  to 
the  Council  of  Nicies,  a.d.  825.  By  the 
Anthor  of 4 Amy  Herbert.’  Fcp.  8vo.  4*.  6c L 

History  of  Wesleyan  Methodism. 
By  Georg*  Smith,  F.A.S.  New  Edition, 
with  Portraits,  in  coarse  of  publication  in 
81  parts,  64.  each. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


NEW  WORKS  published  BT  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


8 


History  of  Modem  KuMc ; a Course 
of  Lectures  delivered  at  the  Royal  Institu- 
tion. By  John  Hullah,  Professor  of 
focal  Music  in  King’s  College  and  in 
Queen’s  College,  London.  Poet  8vo.  6a  6 <L 


History  of  Medicine,  from  the  Ear- 
liest Ages  to  the  Present  Time.  By 
Edward  Mbbtoh,  MJX  F.G&  Yol.  L 
8vo.  12s.  6dL 


Biography  and  Memoirs. 


Sir  John  Eliot,  a Biography: 

1590 — 1632.  By  John  Forster.  With 
2 Portraits  on  Steel,  from  the  Originals  at 
Port  Eliot  2 vole,  crown  8to.  30s. 

Letters  and  Life  of  Francis 

Bacon,  including  all  hi*  Occasional  Work*. 
Collected  and  edited,  with  a Commentary, 
by  J.  Spedding,  Trin.  ColL  Cantab.  Yols. 
Land  IL  8vo.  24s. 

Life  of  Robert  Stephenson,  F.R.S. 

By  J.  C.  Jkaffrkson,  Barrister-at-Law, 
and  William  Pole,  F.R.S.  Memb.  Inst 
Civ.  Eng.  With  2 Portraits  and  many  Il- 
lustrations. 2vols.  8vo.  [Just  ready. 

Life  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington. 

By  the  Rev.  G.  R.  Gleig,  M.  A Popular 
Edition,  carefully  revised;  with  copious 
Additions.  Crown  8vo.  5s. 

Brialmont  and  Gleig’s  Life  of  tlie  Duke 
of  Wellington.  4 vols.  8vo.  with  Illustra- 
tions, £2  14 s. 

Life  of  the  Duke  of  Wellington,  partly 
from  the  French  of  M.  Brialmont,  partly 
from  Original  Documents.  By  the  Rev. 
G.  R.  Gleig,  M.A  8vo.  with  Portrait,  15s. 

Apologia  pro  Vita  Sua:  being  a 
Reply  to  a Pamphlet  intitled  ‘ What  then 
does  Dr.  Newman  mean?  ’ By  John 
Henry  Newman,  DJ).  8vo. 

Father  Mathew:  a Biography. 
By  John  Francis  Maguire,  M.P.  Second 
Edition,  with  Portrait.  Poet  8vo.  12s.  6d. 

Borne ; its  Rulers  and  its  Institutions. 
By  the  same  Author.  New  Edition  in  pre- 
paration. 

Life  Qf  Am^lm  Wilhalmlna.  SieYO- 

king,  from  the  German.  Edited,  with  the 
Author’s  sanction,  by  Catherine  Wink- 
worth.  Post  8vo.  with  Portrait,  12s. 


Felix  Mendelssohn’s  Letters  from 

Italy  and  Switzerland,  translated  by  Lady 
Wallace,  Third  Edition,  with  Notice  of 
Mendelssohn’s  Life  and  Works,  by  Henry 
F.  Chorlby  ; and  Letters  from  1838  to  1847, 
translated  by  Lady  Wallace.  New  Edition, 
with  Portrait  2 vols.  crown  8vo.  5s.  each. 

Diaries  of  a Lady  of  Quality, 
from  1797  to  1844.  Edited,  with  Notes,  by 
A Hayward,  Q.C.  Post  8vo.  10a  6d. 

Recollections  of  the  late  William 

Wilberforce,  M.P.  for  the  County  of  York 
during  nearly  80  Years.  By  J.  S.  Harford, 
D.C.L.  F.R.S.  Post  8vo.  7s. 

Life  and  Correspondence  of 

Theodore  Parker.  By  John  Weiss.  With 
2 Portraits  and  19  Wood  Engravings. 
2 vols.  8vo.  80s. 

Southey’s  Life  of  Wesley.  Fifth 

Edition.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  C.  C.  Southhy, 
M.  A Crown  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Thomas  Moore’s  Memoirs,  Jour- 
nal, and  Correspondence.  Edited  and 
abridged  from  the  First  Edition  by  Earl 
Russell.  [Square  crown  8vo.  with  8 Por- 
traits, 12s.  6d. 

Memoir  of  the  Boy.  Sydney  Smith. 
By  his  Daughter,  Lady  Holland.  With 
a Selection  from  his  Letters,  edited  by  Mrs. 
Austin.  2 vols.  8vo.  28s. 

Life  of  William  Warburton,  D.D. 
Bishop  of  Gloucester  from  1760  to  1778.  By 
the  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  MJL  8vo.  with 
Portrait,  18s. 

Fasti  Bboracenses : Lives  of  the 
Archbishops  of  York.  By  the  late  Rev. 
W.  H.  Dixon,  M.  A Edited  and  enlarged 
by  the  Rev.  J.  Rains,  MJL  In  2 vols. 
Yol.  L comprising  the  Lives  to  the  Death 
of  Edward  IH.  8vo.  15s. 


Digitized  by  LiOOQle 


4 


NEW  WORKS  published  bt  LONGMAN  abb  CO. 


Vicissitudes  of  Families.  By  Sir 
Bernard  Burkb,  Ulster  King  of  Arms. 
First,  Second,  and  Third  Series.  8 vols. 
crown  8yo.  12s.  6 <L  each. 

Biographical  Sketches.  By  Nassau 
W.  Senior.  Poet  8ro.  10s.  6dL 

Essays  in  Ecclesiastical  Biogra- 
phy. By  the  Right  Hon.  Sir  J.  Stephen, 
LL.D.  Fourth  Edition.  8vo.  14a. 


Arago’s  Biographies  of  Distin- 
guished Scientific  Men.  By  Francis 
Arago.  Translated  by  Admiral  W.  H. 
Smyth,  F.R.S.,  the  Rev.  B.  Powell,  MJL, 
and  R.  Grant,  MJL  8m  18a. 

Maunder’s  Biographical  Trea- 
sury : Memoirs,  Sketches,  and  Brief  Notices 
of  aboYe  12,000  Eminent  Persona  of  All 
Ages  and  Nations.  Fcp.  8m  10a. 


Criticism. , Philosophy,  Polity,  fyc. 


Papinian:  a Dialogue  on  State  Affairs 
between  a Constitutional  Lawyer  and  a 
Country  Gentleman  about  to  enter  Public 
Life.  By  George  Atkinson,  B.A.  Ox  on. 
Seijeant-at-Law.  [ Nearly  ready. 

On  Representative  Government. 
By  John  Stuart  Mill.  Second  Edition, 
8vo.  9a. 

Dissertations  and  Discussions.  By  the 
same  Author.  2 vols.  8vo.  24i. 

On  Liberty.*  By  the  same  Author.  Third 
Edition.  Post  8vo.  7a.  fid. 

Principles  of  Political  Economy.  By  the 
same.  Fifth  Edition.  2 vols.  8vo.  30a. 

A System  of  Logio,  Batiocinative  and 
Inductive.  By  the  same.  Fifth  Edition. 
2 vols.  8vo.  25a 

Utilitarianism.  ’ By  the  some.  8vo.  Is. 

Lord  Bacon’s  Works,  collected 
and  edited  byR.  L.  Ellis,  M.  A.,  J.  Spedding, 
MA  and  D.  D.  Heath.  Vols.  I.  to  V. 
Philosophical  Works.  5 vols.  8vo.  £4  6a. 
Vols.  VI.  and  VII.  Literary  and  Profes- 
sional Works.  2 vols.  £1  16«. 

Bacon’s  Essays,  with  Annotations. 

By  R.  Whatelt,  D.D.  late  Archbishop  of 
Dublin.  Sixth  Edition.  8vo.  10«.  6d. 

Elements  of  Logic.  By  R.  Whatelt, 
D.D.  late  Archbishop  of  Dublin.  Ninth 
Edition.  8m  10a  6 d.  crown  8m  4a.  6 d. 

Elements  of  Rhetoric.  By  the  same 
Author.  Seventh  Edition.  8m  10a.  6d. 
crown  8vo.  4a.  6 d. 

English  dynonymea.  Edited  by  Arch- 
bishop Whatelt.  5th  Edition.  Fcp.  8m 
Ba. 


Miscellaneous  Remains  from  the 
Common- place  Book  of  the  late  Archbishop 
Whatelt.  Edited  by  Miss  Whatelt. 
Post  8m  [Just  ready. 

Essays  on  the  Administrations  of 

Great  Britain  from  1783  to  1830,  contributed 
to  the  Edinburgh  Review  by  the  Right  Hon. 
Sir  G.  C.  Lewis,  Bart.  Edited  by  the 
Right  Hon.  Sir  E.  Head,  Bart  8m  with 
Portrait,  15a. 

By  the  same  Author -. 

A Dialogue  on  the  Beat  Form  of 
Government,  4a.  6 d. 

Essay  on  the  Origin  and  Formation  of 
the  Romance  Languages,  7a.  6dL 

Historical  Survey  of  the  Astronomy  of 
the  Ancients,  15a. 

Inquiry  into  the  Credibility  of  the 
Early  Roman  History,  2 vols.  30s. 

On  the  Methods  of  Observation  and 
Reasoning  in  Politics,  2 vols.  28a. 

Irish  Disturbances  and  Irish  Church 
Question,  12a. 

Remarks  on  the  Use  and  Abuse  of 

some  Political  Terms,  9a. 

On  Foreign  Jurisdiction  and  Extradi- 
tion of  Criminals,  2a.  6 d. 

The  Fables  of  Babrius,  Greek  Text 
with  Latin  Notes,  Part  I.  5a.  fid.  Part  IL 
8a.  6* 

Suggestions  for  the  Application  of  the 
Egyptological  Method  to  Modern  History,  la. 

An  Outline  of  the  Necessary 

Laws  of  Thought : a Treatise  on  Purs  and 
Applied  Logic.  By  the  Moet  Rev.  W. 
Thomson,  D.  D.  Archbishop  of  York.  Crown 
8m  5a.  fid. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


NEW  WORKS  ruBLXAHKD  by  LONGMAN  aho  CO. 


5 


The  Elements  of  Logie.  By  Thomas 
Sheddex,  M.A.  of  St.  Peter's  CoiL  Cantab. 
Crown  8va  [Just  ready . 

Analysis  of  Mr.  Mill’s  System  of 

Logic.  By  W.  Stebbing,  M.A.  Fellow  of 
Worcester  College,  Oxford.  Post  8 to. 

ready. 

Speeohes  of  the  Bight  Hon.  Lord 

Macaulay,  corrected  by  Himself.  8ro.  12s. 

Lord  Macaulay’s  Speeches  on 
Parliamentary  Reform  in  1881  and  1832. 
16mo.  Is. 

A Dictionary  of  the  English 
Language.  By  R.  G.  Latham,  MJL  M.D. 
F.R.S.  Founded  on  that  of  Dr.  Johnson,  as 
edited  by  the  Rev.  H.  J.  Todd,  with  name* 
roas  Emendations  and  Additions.  Pub- 
lishing in  36  Parts,  price  3s.  6dL  each,  to 
form  2 vols.  4to. 

The  English  Language.  By  the  same 
Author.  Fifth  Edition.  8vo.  18s. 

Handbook  of  the  English  Language. 
By  the  same  Author.  Fourth  Edition. 
Crown  8vo.  7s.  6<L 

Elements  of  Comparative  Philology. 
By  the  same  Author.  8vo.  21s. 

Thesaurus  of  English  Words  and 

Phrases,  classified  and  arranged  so  as  to 
facilitate  the  Expression  of  Ideas,  and  assist 
in  Literary  Composition.  By  P.  M.  Roget, 
M.D.  14th  Edition,  crown  8vo.  10s.  6 d. 

Lectures  on  the  Science  of  Lan- 
guage, delivered  at  the  Royal  Institution. 
By  Max  Muller,  M.A.  Fellow  of  All  Souls 
College,  Oxford.  First  Series,  Fourth 
Edition.  8vo.  12s.  Second  Series  nearly 
ready. 

The  Debater ; a Scries  of  Complete 
Debates,  Outlines  of  Debates,  and  Questions 
for  Discussion.  By  F.  Rowtox.  Fcp. 
8vo.  6s. 

A Course  of  English  Beading, 

adapted  to  every  taste  and  capacity;  or, 
How  and  What  to  Read.  By  the  Rev.  J. 
Pvcroft,  B.A.  Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 

Manual  of  English  Literature, 

Historical  and  Critical : with  a Chapter  on 
English  Metres.  By  T.  Arnold,  B.A. 
Prof  of  Eng.  Lit.  Cath.  Univ.  Ireland. 
Post  8vo.  10s.  6d. 


Southey’s  Doctor,  complete  in  One 
Volume.  Edited  by  the  Rev.  J.W.  Warteb, 
B.D.  Square  crown  8vo.  12s.  6 <L 

Historical  and  Critical  Commen- 
tary on  the  Old  Testament;  with  a New 
Translation.  By  M.  M.  Kausch,  Ph.  D. 
Vol.  I.  Genesis,  8vo.  18s.  or  adapted  for  the 
General  Reader,  12s.  Vol.  II.  Exodus,  15s. 
or  adapted  for  the  General  Reader,  12s. 

A Hebrew  Grammar,  with  Exercise*. 
By  the  same.  Part  1.  Outlines  with  Exer- 
cises, 8yo.  12s.  6 <L  Key,  5a  Part  II.  Ex- 
ceptional Forms  and  Constructions,  12 s.  6d. 

A New  Latdn-English  Dictionary. 

By  the  Rev.  J.  T.  White,  M.A.  of  Corpus 
Christi  College,  and  Rev.  J.  E.  Riddle, 
M.A.  of  St  Eamund  Hall,  Oxford.  Imperial 
8vo.  42a 


A Diamond  Latin-English  Dictionary, 
or  Guide  to  the  Meaning,  Quality,  and 
Accentuation  of  Latin  Classical  Words.  By 
the  Rev.  J.  E.  Riddle,  M.A.  32mo.  4a 


A New  English- Greek  Lexicon, 

containing  aflthe  Greek  Words  used  by 
Writers  of  good  authority.  By  C.  D.  Yohgb, 
BJL  Fourth  Edition.  4to.  21s. 

A Lexicon,  English  and  Greek, 

abridged  for  the  use  of  Schools  from  his 
* English-Greek  Lexicon ' by  the  Author, 
C.  D.  Yongb,  B.A.  Square  12mo. 

\_Just  ready . 

A Greek-Engliah  Lexicon.  Com- 
piled by  H.  G.  Liddell,  D.D.  Dean  of 
Christ  Church,  and  R.  Scott,  D.D.  Master 
of  BallioL  Fifth  Edition,  crown  4to.  81s.  6d. 


A Lexicon,  Greek  and  English, 
abridged  from  Liddell  and  Scott's  Greek- 
Engliih  Lexicon.  Tenth  Edition,  square 
12mo.  7a  ML 


A Practical  Dictionary  of  the 

French  and  English  Languages.  By  L. 
Coktaxseau.  7tn  Edition.  Post  8vo.  10a  Gd. 


Contansean’s  Pocket  Dictionary, 
French  and  English  ; being  a close 
Abridgment  of  the  above,  by- the  same 
Author.  18mo.  5a  2nd  Edition. 

New  Practical  Dictionary  of  the 

German  Language;  Gennan-English,  and 
English-German.  By  the  Rev.  W.  L. 
Blackley,  M.A.,  and  Dr.  Carl  Martin 
Friedlahder.  Post  8vo.  [In  the  press. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


€ 


NEW  WORKS  published  bt  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Miscellaneous  Works  and  Popular  Metaphysics. 


Recreations  of  a Country  Parson: 
being  a Selection  of  the  Contributions  of 
A.  K.  H.  B.  to  Fraser *s  Magazine.  Second 
Sum  Crown  8vo.  8s.  6dL 

The  Commonplace  Philosopher  in 
Town  and  Country.  By  the  same  Author. 
Crown  8vo.  8s  6 d. 

Leisure  Hours  in  Town ; Essays  Consola- 
tory, ^Esthetical,  Moral,  Social,  and  Do- 
mestic. By  the  same.  Crown  8vo.  8s.  6d. 

0 

Friends  in  Council:  a Series  of 
Readings  and  Discourses  thereon.  2 vols. 
fcp.  8vo.  9s. 

Friends  in  Counoil,  Second  Sebies. 
2 vols.  post  8vo.  14s. 


Essays  written  in  the  Intervals  Tof 
Business.  Fcp.  8vo.  2s.  6dL 

Companions  of  My  Solitude.  By  the 
same  Author.  Fcp.  8vo.  3s.  6d. 

Lord  Macaulay’s  Miscellaneous 

Writings : comprising  his  Contributions  to 
Knight’s  Quarterly  Magazine,  Articles 
from  the  Edinburgh  Review  not  included  in 
his  Critical  and  Historical  Essays,  Biogra- 
phies from  the  Encyclopaedia  Britasmica , 
Miscellaneous  Poems  and  Inscriptions. 
2 vols.  8vo.  with  Portrait,  21s. 

The  Rev.  Sydney  Smith’s  Mis- 
cellaneous Works ; including  his  Contribu- 
tions to  the  Edinburgh  Review. 

Library  Edition.  3 vols.  8vo.  86s. 

Traveller’s  Edition,  in  1 vol.  21s. 

In  Pocket  Volumes.  8 vols.  21s. 

People’s  Edition,  2 vols.  crown  8vo.  8s. 

Momentary  Sketches  of  Moral  Philo- 
sophy, delivered  at  the  Royal  Institution. 
By  the  same  Author.  Fcp.  8vo.  7s. 

The  Wit  and  Wisdom  of  the  Rev. 
Sydney  Smith  : a Selection  of  the  most 
memorable  Passages  in  his  Writings  and 
Conversation.  16mo.  7s.  6 d. 


From  Matter  to  Spirit:  the  Result 
of  Ten  Tears’  Experience  in  Spirit  Mani- 
festations. By  C.  D.  with  a Preface  by 
A.  B.  Post  8vo.  8s.  6<£ 

The  History  of  the  Supernatural 

in  All  Ages  and  Nations,  and  in  All 
Churches,  Christian  and  Pagan;  demon- 
strating a Universal  Faith.  By  William 
Howitt.  2 vols.  post  8vo.  18s. 

Chapters  on  Mental  Physiology. 
By  Sir  Henry  Holland,  Bart  M.D.  F.R.S. 
Seoond  Edition.  Post  8vo.  8s.  6dL 

Essays  selected  from  Contribu- 
tions to  the  Edinburgh  Review.  By  Henry 
Rogers.  Second  Edition.  3 vols.  fcp.  21s. 

The  Eclipse  of  Faith;  or,  a Visit  to  a 
Religions  Sceptic.  By  the  same  Author. 
Tenth  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 

Defence  of  the  Eclipse  of  Faith,  by  its 
Author  ; a Rejoinder  to  Dr.  Newman’s 
Reply.  Third  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  3s.  6d. 

Selections  from  the  Correspondence 
of  R.  E.  H.  Greyson.  By  the  same  Author. 
Third  Edition.  Crown  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Fulleriana,  or  the  Wisdom  and  Wit  of 
Thomas  Fuller, with  Essay  on  his  Life  and 
Genius.  By  the  same  Author.  16mo.  2s.  6 d. 

Reason  and  Faith,  reprinted  from  the 
Edinburgh  Review . By  the  same  Author. 
Fourth  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  Is.  6 d. 

An  Introduction  to  Mental  Phi- 
losophy, on  the  Inductive  Method.  By 
J.  D.  Morell,  MJL  LL.D.  8vo.  12s. 

Elements  of  Psychology,  containing  8m 
Analysis  of  the  Intellectual  Powers.  By 
the  same  Author.  Post  8vo.  7s.  6 d. 

The  Senses  and  the  Intellect. 
By  Alexander  Bain,  M.A.  Professor  of 
Logic  in  the  University  of  Aberdeen.  Se- 
cond Edition.  8vo.  15s. 

The  Emotions  and  the  Will,  by  the 
same  Author ; completing  a Systematic 
Exposition  of  the  Human  Mind.  Sve.  lbs. 

On  the  Study  of  Character,  including 
an  Estimate  of  Phrenology.  By  the  same 
Author.  8vo.  9s. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


7 


Honrs  with  the  Mystics : a Contri- 
bution to  the  History  of  Religions  Opinion. 
By  Robert  Alfred  Vaughan,  B.A.  Se- 
cond Edition.  2 vote,  crown  8vo.  12s. 

Psychological  Inquiries,  or  Essays 
intended  to  illustrate  the  Influence  of  the 
Physical  Organisation  on  the  Mental  Facul- 
ties. By  Sir  B.  C.  Bbodib,  Bart.  Fcp.  8vo. 
5s.  Part  n.  Essays  intended  to  illustrate 
some  Points  in  the  Physical  and  Moral 
History  of  Man.  Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 


The  Philosophy  of  Necessity;  or 
Natural  Law  as  applicable  to  Mental,  Moral, 
and  Social  Science.  By  CHARr.ES  Bray. 
Second  Edition.  8vo.  9s. 

The  Bduoatioa  of  the  Feedings  and 
Affections.  By  the  same  Author.  Third 
Edition.  8vo.  8s.  6 <L 

Christianity  and  Common  Sense. 

By  Sir  Willoughby  Jones,  Bart.  M.A. 
Trin.  Coll.  Cantab.  8m  6*. 


Astronomy , Meteorology,  Popular  Geography,  <f*c. 


Outlines  of  Astronomy.  By  Sr 

J.  F.  W.  Herschel,  Bart,  M.A.  Seventh 
Edition,  revised ; with  Plates  and  Woodcuts. 
8vo.  18s. 

Two  Plates  are  new  in  this  Edition, 
one  showing  the  willow-leaved  structure  of 
the  Sun’s  photosphere,  the  other  exhibiting 
a portion  of  the  Moon’s  surface  from  a 
model  by  Mr.  Nasmyth. 

Arago’s  Popular  Astronomy. 

Translated  by  Admiral  W.  H.  Smyth, 
F.R.S.  and  R.  Grant,  M.A.  With  25  Plates 
and  858  Woodcuts.  2 vols.  8vo.  £2  5 s. 

Arago’s  Meteorological  Essays,  with 
Introduction  by  Baron  Humboldt.  Trans- 
lated under  the  superintendence  of  Major- 
General  E.  Sabine,  1LA.  8vo.  18s. 

The  Weather-Book ; * Manual  of 
Practical  Meteorology.  By  Bear- Admiral 
Robert  Fitz  Roy,  R.N.  F.R.S.  Third 
Edition,  with  16  Diagrams.  8vo.  15s. 

Saxby’s  Weather  System,  or  Lunar 
Influence  ou  Weather.  By  S.  M.  Saxby, 
R.N.  Principal  Instructor  of  Naval  En- 
gineers, EL  M.  Steam  Reserve.  Second 
Edition.  Post  8vo.  4s. 

Dove’s  Law  of  Storms  considered 
in  connexion  with  the  ordinary  Movements 
of  the  Atmosphere.  Translated  by  R.  H. 
Soott,  M.A.  T.C.D.  8vo.  10s.  6<£ 

Celestial  Objects  fbr  Common 

Telescopes.  By  the  Rev.  T.  W.  Webb, 
MJL  F.R.AA  With  Map  of  the  Moon, 
and  Woodcuts.  16mo.  7s. 


Physical  Geography  for  Schools 

and  General  Readers.  By  M.  F.  Maury, 
LL.D.  Author  of  ‘ Physical  Geography  of 
the  Sea,*  Ac.  [. Nearly  ready. 

A Dictionary,  Geographical,  Sta- 
tistical, and  Historical,  of  the  various  Coun- 
tries, Places,  and  principal  Natural  Objects 
in  the  World.  By  J.  R.  M'Cdlloch,  Esq. 
With  6 Maps.  2 vols.  8vo.  68s. 

A General  Dictionary  of  Geo- 
graphy, Descriptive,  Physical,  Statistical, 
and  Historical  ; forming  a complete 
Gazetteer  of  the  World.  By  A.  Keith 
Johnston,  F.R.S.E.  8vo.  80s. 

A Manual  of  Geography,  Physical, 
Industrial,  and  Political.  By  W.  Hughes, 
F.R.G.S.  Professor  of  Geography  in  King’s 
College,  and  in  Queen’s  College,  London. 
With  6 Maps.  Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  Sd. 

Or  in  Two  Parts:— Part  I.  Europe, 
3s.  6d.  Part  IL  Asia,  Afriea,  America, 
Australasia,  and  Polynesia,  4s. 

The  Geography  of  British  History ; a 
Geographical  Description  of  the  British 
Islands  at  Successive  Periods,  from  the 
Earliest  Times  to  the  Present  Day.  By 
the  same.  With  6 Maps.  Fcp.  8vo.  8s.  6 d. 

The  British  Empire ; a Sketch  of 
the  Geography,  Growth,  Natural  and  Poli- 
tical Features  of  the  United  Kingdom,  its 
Colonies  and  Dependencies.  By  Carolwe 
Bray.  With  5 Maps.  Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6 d. 

Colonisation  and  Colonies : a Series 
of  Lectures  delivered  before  the  University 
of  Oxford.  By  Herman  Mrrivale,  M.A. 
Professor  of  Political  Economy.  8vo.  18s. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


8 


NEW  WORKS  published  bt  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


The  Africans  at  Home : a popular 
Description  of  Africa  and  the  Africans.  By 
the  Rev.  R.  M.  Macbrair,  M.A.  Second 
Edition ; including  an  Account  of  the  Dis- 
covery of  the  Source  of  the  Nile.  With 
Map  and  70  Woodcuts.  Fcp.  8vo.  5c. 


Maunder’s  Treasury  of  Geogra- 
phy, Physical,  Historical,  Descriptive,  and 
Political.  Completed  by  W.  Hughes, 
F.R.G.S.  With  7 Maps  and  16  Plates. 
Fcp.  8ro.  10c. 


Natural  History  and  Popular  Science. 


The  Elements  of  Physios  or 

Natural  Philosophy.  By  Neil  Abbott, 
M.D.  F.R.S.  Physician  Extraordinary  to 
the  Queen.  Sixth  Edition.  Part  I.  8vo. 
10c.  6d. 

Heat  Considered  as  a Mode  of 

Motion ; a Course  of  Lectures  delivered  at 
the  Royal  Institution.  By  Professor  John 
Tyndall,  F.R.S.  Crown  8vo.  with  Wood- 
cuts,  12c.  6d  - 

Volcanos,  the  Character  of  their 
Phenomena,  their  Share  in  the  Structure 
and  Composition  of  the  Surface  of  the  Globe, 
Ac.  By  G.  Poulett  Scrope,  M.P.  F.R.S. 
Second  Edition.  8vo.  with  Illustrations,  15c. 

A Treatise  on  Electricity,  in 

Theory  and  Practice.  By  A.  De  la  Rive, 
Prof,  in  the  Academy  of  Geneva.  Trans- 
lated by  C.  V.  Walker,  F.R.S.  8 vols. 
8 vo.  with  Woodcuts,  £3  18c. 

The  Correlation  of  Physical 
Forces.  By  W.  R.  Grove,  Q.C.  Y.P.R.S. 
Fourth  Edition.  8vo.  7c.  6 d. 

The  Geological  Magasine ; or, 

Monthly  Journal  of  Geolog}'.  Edited  by 
T.  Rupert  Jobes,  F.G.S.  Professor  of 
Geology  in  the  R.  M.  College,  Sandhurst ; 
assisted  by  J.  C.  Woodward,  F.G.S.  F.Z.S. 
British  Museum.  8vo.  with  Illustrations, 
price  lc.  6 d.  monthly. 

A Guide  to  Geology.  By  J.  Phillips, 
M.A.  Professor  of  Geolegy  in  the  University 
of  Oxford.  Fifth  Edition ; with  Plates  and 
Diagrams.  Fcp.  8vo.  4c. 


A Glossary  of  Mineralogy.  By 

H.  W.  Bristow,  F.G.S.  of  the  Geological 
Survey  of  Great  Britain.  With  486  Figures. 
Crown  8vo.  12c. 


Phillips’s  Elementary  Introduc- 
tion to  Mineralogy,  with  extensive  Altera- 
tions and  Additions,  by  H.  J.  Brooke, 
F.R.S.  and  W.  H.  Miller,  F.G.S.  Poet 
8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  18c. 

Van  Der  Hoeven’s  Handbook  of 

Zoology.  Translated  from  the  Second 
Dutch  Edition  by  the  Rev.  W.  Clark. 
M.D.  F.R.S.  2 volt.  8vo.  with  24  Plates  of 
Figures,  60s. 

The  Comparative  Anatomy  and 

Physiology  of  the  Vertebrate  Animal*.  By 
Richard  Oweb,  F.R.S.  D.G.L.  2 vols. 
8vo.  with  upwards  of  1,200  Woodcuts. 

[J*  the  press* 

Homes  without  Rands : an  Account 
of  the  Habitations  constructed  by  various 
Animals,  classed  according  to  their  Princi- 
ples of  Construction.  By  Rev.  J.  G.  Wood, 
M.A.  F.L.S.  Illustrations  on  Wood  by  G. 
Pearson,  from  Drawings  by  F.  W.  Keyl 
and  E.  A,  Smith.  In  course  of  publication 
in  20  Parts,  lc.  each. 

Manual  of  Ccelenterata.  By  J.  Reat 
Gbbbne,  B.A.  M.R.I.A.  Edited  by  the 
Rev.  J.  A.  Galbraith,  M.A.  and  the  Rev. 
S.  Haughton,  M.D.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  89 
Woodcuts,  5c. 

Manual  of  Protoaoa ; with  a General  Intro- 
duction on  the  Principles  of  Zoology.  By 
the  same  Author  and  Editors.  Fcp.  8vo. 
with  16  Woodcuts,  2c. 

Manual  of  the  Metalloids.  By  J.  Apjohx, 
M.D.  F.R.S.  and  the  same  Editors.  Fcp* 
8 vo.  with  88  Woodcuts,  7s.  6 <L 

The  Alps : Sketches  of  Life  and  Nature 
in  the  Mountains.  By  Baron  H.  Yob 
Bbrlepsch.  Translated  by  the  Rev.  L. 
Stephen,  M.A.  With  17  Illustrations. 
8vo.  15c. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


The  Sea  and  its  lairing  Wonders. 
By  Dr.  G.  Hartwig.  Second  (English) 
Edition.  8vo.  with  many  Illustrations.  18#. 

The  Tropical  World.  By  the  same 
Author.  With  8 Chromoxylographs  and 
172  Woodcuts.  8vo.  21#. 

Sketches  of  the  Natural  History 

of  Ceylon.  By  Sir  J.  Emerson  Tennent, 
K.C.S.  LL.D.  With  82  Wood  Engravings. 
Post  8vo.  12#.  6dL 

Ceylon.  By  the  same  Author.  5th  Edition; 
with  Maps,  See.  and  90  Wood  Engravings. 
2 vols.  8va  £2  10#. 

#► 

Marrels  and  Mysteries  of  In- 
stinct ; or,  Curiosities  of  Animal  Life.  By 
G.  Gabratt.  Third  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  7s. 

Home  Walks  and  Holiday  Ham- 
bies. By  the  Rev.  C.  A.  Johns,  B.A.  F.L.S. 
Fcp.  8vo.  with  10  Illustrations,  6#. 

Kirby  and  Spence’s  Introduction 

to  Entomology,  or  Elements  of  the  Natural 
History  of  Insects.  Seventh  Edition.  Crown 
8vo.  5#. 

Maunder’s  Treasury  of  Natural 

History,  or  Popular  Dictionary  of  Zoology. 
Revised  and  corrected  by  T.  S.  Cobbold, 
M.D.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  900  Woodcuts,  10#. 

The  Treasury  of  Botany,  on  the 

Plan  of  Maunder’s  Treasury.  By  J.  Lind- 
ley,  M.D.  and  T.  Moore,  F.L.S.  assisted 
by  other  Practical  Botanists.  With  16 
Plates,  and  many  Woodcuts  from  designs 
by  W.  H.  Fitch.  Fcp.  8vo.  [/» the  press. 

The  Hose  Amateur’s  Guide.  By 
Thomas  Rivers.  8th  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  is. 

The  British  Flora ; comprising  the 
Phaenogaraous  or  Flowering  Plants  and  the 
Ferns.  By  Sir  W.  J.  Hooker,  K.H.  and 
G.  A.  Walker- Arnott,  LL.D.  12 mo. 
with  12  Plates,  14#.  or  coloured,  21#. 


9 


Bryologia  Britan nica ; containing 
the  Mosses  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland, 
arranged  and  described.  By  W.  Wilson. 
8vo.  w;th  61  Plates,  42#.  or  coloured,  £i  is. 

The  Indoor ; Gardener.  By  Miss 
Maiang.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  coloured*Fron tTs  - 
piece,  5#. 

Loudon’s  Enoy  clop&dia  of  Plants ; 

comprising  the  Specific  Character,  Descrip- 
tion, Culture,  History,  Ste.  of  all  the  Plants 
found  in  Great  Britain.  With  upwards  of 
12,000  Woodcuts.  8vo.  £3  13#.  6 <L 

Loudon’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Trees  and 
Shrubs;  containing  the  Hardy  Trees  and 
Shrubs  of  Great  Britain  scientifically  and 
popularly  described.  With  2,000  Woodcuts- 
8vo.  60#. 

History  of  the  British  Fresh- 
water Algae.  By  A.  H.  Hass  all,  M.D. 
With  100  Plates  of  Figures.  2 vols.  8vo. 

. price  £1  15#. 

Maunder’s  Scientific  and  Lite- 
rary Treasury ; a Popular  Encyclopaedia  of 
Science,  Literature,  and  Art  Fcp.  8va  10#. 

A Dictionary  of  Science,  Litera- 
ture, and  Art;  comprising  the  History 
Description,  and  Scientific  Principles  of 
•very  Branch  of  Human  Knowledge.  Edited 
by  W.  T.  Brande,  F.R.S.L.  and  E.  Fourth 
Edition,  revised  and  corrected. 

\_In  the  press. 

Essays  on  Scientific  and  other 

subjects,  contributed  to  the  Edinburgh  and 
Quarterly  Reviews . By  Sir  H.  Holland, 
Bart,  M.D.  Second  Edition.  8vo.  14#. 

Essays  from  the  Edinburgh  and 

Quarterly  Reviews  ; with  Addresses  and 
other  Pieces.  By  Sir  J.  F.  W.  Hebschel,  . 
Bart  M.A.  8vo.  18#. 


Chemistiy , Medicine , Surgery , and  the  Allied  Sciences „ 


A Dictionary  of  Chemistry  and 

the  Allied  Branches  of  other  Sciences  ; 
founded  on  that  of  the  late  Dr.  Ure.  By 
Henry  Watts,  F.C.S.  assisted  by  eminent 
Contributors.  4 vols.  8vo.  in  course  of 
publication  in  Monthly  Parts.  Yol.  I. 
81#.  6dL  and  You  II.  26#.  are  now  ready. 


Handbook  of  Chemical  Analysis, 

adapted  to  the  Unitary  System  of  Notation : 
Based  on  Dr.  H.  Wills’  Anleitung  zur  client - 
ischen  Analyse.  By  F.  T.  CoNington, 
M.A.  F.C.S.  Post  8vo-  7s.  6dL — Tables  of' 
Qualitative  Analysis  to  accompany  the 
same,  2#.  6d 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


10 


NEW  WORKS  published  BY  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


A Handbook  of  Volumetrioal 
Analysis.  By  Robert  H.  Soott,  M.A. 
T.C.D.  Po8t8vo.4f.6A 

Elements  of  Chemistry,  Theore- 
tical and  Practical.  By  William  A. 
Miller,  M.D.  LL.D.  F.R.S.  F.G.S.  Pro* 
fessor  of  Chemistry,  King’s  College,  London. 
8 vols.  8vo.  £2  12s.  Part  L Chemical 
Physics.  Third  Edition  enlarged,  12s. 
Part  IT.  Inorganic  Chemistry.  Second 
Edition,  20a  Part  III.  Organic  Che- 
mistry. Second  Edition,  20s. 

A Manual  of  Chemistry,  De- 
scriptive and  Theoretical.  By  William 
Odling,  M.B.  F.R.S.  Lecturer  on  Che- 
mistry at  St.  Bartholomew's  Hospital.  Part 

I.  8vo.  9f. 

A Manual  of  Chemistry,  Descriptive 
and  Theoretical,  for  the  use  of  Medical 
Students.  By  the  same  Author.  Part  I. 
crown  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  4s.  Qd.  Part 

II.  (completion)  just  ready. 

The  Diagnosis  and  Treatment  of 

the  Diseases  of  Women;  including  the 
Diagnosis  of  Pregnancy.  By  Grail y 
Hewitt,  M.D.  Physician  to  the  British 
Lying-in  Hospital.  8vo.  lGs. 

Lectures  on  the  Diseases  of  In- 
fancy and  Childhood.  By  Charles  West, 
M.D.  &c.  Fourth  Edition,  revised  and 
enlarged.  8vo.  14*. 

Exposition  of  the  Signs  and 

Symptoms  of  Pregnancy : with  other  Papers 
en  subjects  connected  with  Midwifery.  By 
W.  F.  Montgomery,  M.A.  M.D.  M.R.I.A. 
8vo.  with  Illustrations,  25f. 

A System  of  Surgery,  Theoretical 

and  Practical.  In  Treatises  by  Various 
Authors,  arranged  and  edited  by  T.  Holmes, 
M.A.  Cantab.  Assistant-Surgeon  to  St. 
George's  Hospital.  4 vols.  8vo. 

Vol.  I.  General  Pathology.  Sis. 

VoL  II.  Local  Injuries — Diseases  of 
the  Eye.  21s. 

Vol.  HI.  Operative  Surgery.  Diseases 
ef  the  Organs  of  Special  Sense,  Respiration, 
Circulation,  Locomotion  and  Innervation. 

2 If. 

VoL  IV.  Diseases  of  the  Alimentary 
Canal,  of  the  Urino-genitaiy  Organs,  of  the 
Thyroid,  Mamma  and  Skin ; with  Appendix 
of  Miscellaneous  Subjects,  and  General 
Index.  [ Nearly  ready. 


Lectures  on  the  Principles  and 
Practice  of  Physic.  By  Thomas  Watson, 
M.D.  Physician-Extraordinary  to  the 
Queen.  Fourth  Edition.  2 vols.  8vo.  34s. 

Lectures  on  Surgical  Pathology. 

By  J.  Paget,  F.R.S.  Surgeon-Extraordinary 
to  the  Queen.  Edited  by  W.  Turner,  M.B. 
Svo.  with  117  Woodcuts,  21f. 

A Treatise  on  the  Continued 

Fevers  of  Great  Britain.  By  C.  Murchison, 
MJ).  Senior  Physician  to  the  London  Fever 
Hospital.  8vo.  with  coloured  Plates,  18s. 

Demonstrations  of  Microscopic 

Anatomy ; a Guide  to  the  Examination  of 
the  Animal  Tissues  and  Fluids  in  Health 
and  Disease,  for  the  use  of  the  Medical  and 
Veterinary  Professions.  Founded  on  a 
Course  of  Lectures  delivered  by  Dr.  Harley, 
Prof,  in  Univ.  Coll.  London.  Edited  by 
G.  T.  Brown,  late  Vet  Prof,  in  the  Royal 
Agric.  Coll.  Cirencester.  8vo.  with  Illus- 
trations. [ Nearly  ready. 

Anatomy,  Descriptive  and  Sur- 
gical. By  Henry  Gray,  F.R.S.  With 
410  Wood  Engravings  from  Dissections. 
Third  Edition,  byT.  Holmes,  M.  A Cantab. 
Royal  8vo.  28f. 

Physiological  Anatomy  and  Phy- 
siology of  Man.  By  the  late  R.  B.  Todd, 
M.D.  F.R.S.  and  W.  Bowman,  F.R.S.  of 
King's  College.  With  numerous  Illustra- 
tions. Vol.  II.  8vo.  25*. 

A New  Edition  of  VoL  I.  revised  and 
edited  by  Dr.  Lionel  S.  Beaus,  is  pre- 
paring for  publication. 

The  Cyclopaedia  of  Anatomy  and 

Physiology.  Edited  by  the  late  R.  B.  Todd, 
M.D.  F.R.S.  Assisted  by  nearly  all  the 
most  eminent  cultivators  of  Physiological 
Science  of  the  present  age.  5 vols.  8va 
with  2,858  Woodcuts,  £6  6f. 

A Dictionary  of  Practical  Medi- 
cine. By  J.  Copland,  M.D.  F.R.S. 
Abridged  from  the  larger  work  by  the 
Author,  assisted  by  J.  C.  Copland.  1 vol. 
8vo.  [/a  the  press. 

Dr.  Copland's  Dictionary  of  Practical 
Medicine  (the  larger  work).  8 vols.  8vo. 
£5  Ilf. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


NEW  WORKS  published  bt  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


11 


The  Works  of  Sir  B.  C.  Brodie, 

Bart.  Edited  by  Charles  Hawkins, 
F.R.C.S.E.  2 vols.  8vo.  [/»  the  press. 

Medical  Notes  and  Deflections. 
By  Sir  H.  Hollaed,  Bart.  M.D.  Third 
Edition.  8vo.  18*. 

Hooper’s  Medical  Dictionary,  or 
Encyclopedia  of  Medical  Science.  Ninth 
Edition,  brought  down  to  the  present  time 
by  Alex.  Henry,  M.D.  1 vol.  8vo. 

[ Jn  the  press. 


A Manual  of  Materia  Medioa 

and  Therapeutics,  abridged  from  Dr. 
Pereira’s  Elements  by  F.  J.  Farrb,  M.D. 
Cantab,  assisted  by  R.  Behtlbt,  M.R.C.S. 
and  by  B.  Warrington,  F.C.S.  1 vol. 
8vo.  ' [/»  October. 

Dr.  Pereira’s  Elements  of  Materia 
Medics,  and  Therapeutics,  Third  Edition,  by 
A.  S.  Taylor,  M.D.  and  G.  0.  Rees,  M.D. 
8 vols.  8vo.  with  numerous  Woodcuts, 
£8  15*. 


The  Fine  Arts,  and  Illustrated  Editions. 


The  New  Testament  of  Oar  Lord 
and  Saviour  Jesus  Christ,  Illustrated  with 
numerous  Engravings  on  Wood  from  the 
OLD  MASTERS.  Crown  4to.  price  63*. 
cloth,  gilt  top;  or  price  £5  5*.  elegantly 
bound  in  morocco.  [7b  October. 

Lyra  Germanica ; Hymns  for  the 
Sundays  and  Chief  Festivals  of  the  Christian 
Tear.  Translated  by  Catherine  Wink- 
worth;  125  Illustrations  on  Wood  drawn 
by  J.  Leighton,  F.8.A.  Fop.  4ta  21*. 

Cato*  and  Far  lie’s  Moral  Em- 
blems ; with  Aphorisms,  Adages,  and  Pro- 
verbs of  all  Nations  : comprising  121 
Illustrations  on  Wood  by  J.  Leighton, 
F.S.A.  with  an  appropriate  Text  by 
R.  Pigot.  Imperial  8vo.  31*.  6d. 

Bnnyan’s  Pilgrim’s  Progress : 
with  126  Illustrations  on  Steel  and  Wood 
by  C.  Bennett;  and  a Preface  by  the  Rev. 
C.  Kingsley.  Fcp.  4to.  21*. 


The  History  of  Our  Lord,  as  exem- 
plified in  Works  of  Art : with  that  of  His 
Types,  St  John  the  Baptist,  and  other 
Persons  of  the  Old  and  New  Testament. 
By  Mrs.  Jameson  and  Lady  Eastlake. 
Being  the  Fourth  and  concluding  Series  of 
* Sacred  and  Legendary  Art;*  with  81 
Etchings  and  281  Woodcuts.  2 vols.  square 
crown  8vo.  42*. 

In  the  same  Series,  by  Mrs.  Jameson. 

Legends  of  the  Saints  and  Martyrs. 
Fourth  Edition,  with  19  Etchings  and  187 
Woodcuts.  2 vols.  81*.  6d. 

Legends  of  the  Monastic  Orders.  Third 
Edition,  with  11  Etchings  and  88  Woodcuts, 
1 vol.  21*. 

Legends  of  the  Madonna.  Third  Edition, 
with  27  Etchings  and  165  Woodcuts! 
1 vol.  21*. 


Arts,  Manufactures,  fyc. 


Encyclopaedia  of  Architecture, 
Historical,  Theoretical,  and  Practical.  By 
Joseph  Gwilt.  With  more  than  1,000 
Woodcuts.  8vo.  42*. 

Tuscan  Sculpture,  from  its  Revival 
to  its  Decline.  Illustrated  with  Etchings 
and  Woodcuts  from  Original  Drawings  and 
Photographs.  By  Charles  C.  Perkins. 

[7*  the  press. 


The  Engineer’s  Handbook;  ex- 
plaining the  Principles  which  should  guide 
the  young  Engineer  in  the  Construction  of 
Machinery.  By G.8. Lowndes.  Post 8 vo. 5*. 

The  Elements  of  Mechanism, 

for  Students  of  Applied  Mechanics.  By 
T.  M.  Goodbye,  M.A.  Professor  of  Nat. 
Philos,  in  King’s  Coli  Loud.  With  206 
Woodcuts.  Post  8vo.  6*.  64 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


12 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Ure’s  Dictionary  of  Arts,  Manu- 
factures, and  Mines.  Re-written  and  en- 
larged by  Robert  Hunt,  F.R.S.,  assisted 
by  numerous  gentlemen  eminent  in  Science 
and  the  Arts.  With  2,000  Woodcuts.  8vola 
8yo.  £4. 

Encyclopedia  of  Civil  Engineer- 
ing, Historical,  Theoretical,  and  Practical. 
By  E.  Crest,  C.E.  With  above  8,000 
Woodcuts.  8vo.  42#. 

Treatise  on  Milla  and  Millwork. 

By  W.  Fairbairn,  C.E.  F.R.S.  With  18 
Plates  and  322  Woodcuts.  2 vols.  8vo.  32#. 
or  each  vol.  separately,  16#. 

Useful  Information  for  Engineers.  By 
the  same  Author.  First  and  Second 
Series,  with  many  Plates  and  Woodcuts. 
2 vols.  crown  8vo.  21a  or  each  voL  sepa- 
rately, 10a  6 d. 

The  Application  of  Oast  and  Wrought 
Iron  to  Building  Purposes.  By  the  same 
Author.  Third  Edition,  with  Plates  and 
Woodcuts.  Z Nearly  ready. 

The  Practical  Mechanic’s  Jour- 
nal : An  Illustrated  Record  of  Mechanical 
and  Engineering  Science,  and  Epitome  of 
Patent  Inventions.  4to.  price  la  monthly. 

The  Practical  Draughtsman’s 
Book  of  Industrial  Design.  By  W.  John- 
son, Assoc.  Inst  C.E.  With  many  hundred 
Illufltrationa  4to.  28#.  6 d. 

The  Patentee’s  Manual : a Treatise 

on  the  Law  and  Practice  of  Letters  Patent 
for  the  use  of  Patentees  and  Inventora  By 
J.  and  J.  H.  Johnson.  Post  8vo.  7a  6 d. 

The  Artisan  Club’s  Treatise  on 

the  Steam  Engine,  in  its  various  Applica- 
tions to  Mines,  Mills,  Steam  Navigation, 
Railways,  and  Agriculture.  By  J.  Bourne, 
C.E.  Fifth  Edition;  with  37  Plates  and 
546  Woodcuta  4to.  42#. 

A Catechism  of  the  Steam  Engine,  in 
its  various  Applications  to  Mines,  Mills, 
Steam  Navigation,  Railways,  and  Agricul- 
ture. By  the  same  Author.  With  80 
Woodcuta  Fcp.  8vo.  6a 

The  Story  of  the  Guns.  By  Sir  j. 
Emerson  Tennent,  K.C.S.  F.R.S.  With 
83  Woodcuta.  Post  8vo.  7a  6 d. 


The  Theory  of  War  Illustrated. 

by  numerous  Examples  from  History.  By 
Lieut  .-Col.  P.  L.  MacDougall.  Third 
Edition , with  10  Plana  Post  8vo.  10#.  6dL 

Collieries  and  Colliers ; A Hand- 
book of  the  Law  and  leading  Coses  relating 
thereto.  ByJ.  C.  Fowler,  Barrister-ai- 
Law,  Stipendiary  Magistrate.  Fcp.  8vo.  6a 

The  Art  of  Perfumery ; the  History 
and  Theory  of  Odours,  and  the  Methods  of 
Extracting  the  Aromas  of  Plants.  By 
Dr.  Pi  esse,  F.C.S.  Third  Edition,  with 
58  Woodcuta  Crown  8vo.  10a  6 d. 

Chemical,  Natural,  and  Physical  Magic, 
for  Juveniles  during  the  Holidaya  By  the 
same  Author.  With  30  Woodcuta  Fcp. 
8vo.  3 «.  Gd. 

The  Laboratory  of  Chemical  Wonders : 
A Scientific  Melange  for  Young  People. 
By  the  same.  Crown  8vo.  5#.  6d, 

Talpa ; or,  the  Chronicles  of  a Clay 
Farm.  By  C.  W.  Hosryns,  Esq.  With  24 
Woodcuts  from  Designs  by  G.  Ckuik- 
shank.  16mo.  5#.  6 d. 

H.B.H.  The  Prince  Consort’s 

Farms:  An  Agricultural  Memoir.  By  John 
Chalmers  Morton.  Dedicated  by  per- 
mission to  Her  Majesty  the  Queen.  With 
40  Wood  Engravings..  4to.  52a  6«£ 

Handbook  of  Farm  Labour,  Steam.Water, 
Wind,  Horse  Power,  Hand  Power,  Ac.  By 
the  same  Author.  16mo.  1#.  6 d. 

Handbook  of  Dairy  Husbandry;  com- 
prising the  General  Management  of  a Dairy 
Farm,  Ac.  By  the  same.  16mo.  la  6 <L 

Loudon’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Agri- 
culture : Comprising  the  Laying-out,  Im- 
provement, and  Management  of  Landed 
Property,  and  the  Cultivation  and  Economy 
of  the  Productions  of  Agriculture.  With 
1,106  Woodcuts.  8vo.  31a  GdL 

Loudon’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Gardening : 
Comprising  the  Theory  and  Practice  of 
Horticulture,  Floriculture,  Arboriculture, 
and  Landscape  Gardening.  With  1,000 
Woodcuta  8vo.  31#.  6 d. 

Loudon’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Cottage,  Parra, 
and  Villa  Architecture  and  Furniture.  With 

Z more  than  2,000  Woodcuta  8vo.  42a 


Digitized  by  foozle 


NEW  WORKS  published  BT  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


13 


History  of  Windsor  Great  Park 

and  Windsor  Forest.  By  William  Men* 
zies,  Resident  Deputy  Surveyor.  With  a 
Map,  and  20  Photographs  by  the  Earl  of 
Caithness  and  Mr.  Bambridgk.  Imperial 
folio.  [Just  ready . 


Bayldon’s  Art  of  Valuing  Bents 

and  Tillages,  and  Claims  of  Tenants  upon 
Quitting  Farms,  both  at  Michaelmas  and 
Lady-Day.  8vo.  10a.  6 cL 


Religious  and  Moral  Works. 


An  Exposition  of  the  80  Articles, 

Historical  and  Doctrinal.  By  E.  Harold 
Browne,  D.D.  Lord  Bishop  of  Ely.  Sixth 
Edition,  8vo.  16a. 

The  Pentateuch  and  the  Elohistio 
Psalms,  in  Reply  to  Bishop  Colenso.  By 
the  same  Author.  8vo.  2a. 

Examination  Questions  on  Bishop 
Browne's  Exposition  of  the  Articles.  By 
the  Rev.  J.  Gorlb,  M.A.  Fcp.  8a.  6 d. 


Five  Lectures  on  the  Character 

of  St.  Paul ; being  the  Hulsean  Lectures 
for  1862.  By  the  Rev.  J.  S.  Howson,  D.D. 
Second  Edition.  8vo.  9a. 

A Critical  and  Grammatical  Com- 
mentary on  St  Paul's  Epistles.  By  C.  J. 
Ellicott,  D.D.  Lord  Bishop  of  Gloucester 
and  Bristol.  8vo. 

Galatians,  Third  Edition,  8a.  6d. 

Ephesians,  Third  Edition,  8a.  6c/. 

Pastoral  Epistles,  Second  Edition,  10a.  6 d. 

Philippians,  Colossians,  and  Philemon, 
Second  Edition,  10a.  6dL 

Theasaloniana,  Second  Edition,  7a.  6cZ. 

Historical  Lectures  on  the  Life  of  Our 
Lord  Jesus  Christ:  being  the  Hulsean 
Lectures  for  1859.  By  the  same  Author. 
Third  Edition.  8vo.  10a.  6 d. 

The  Destiny  of  the  Creature  ; and  other 
Sermons  preached  before  the  University  of 
Cambridge.  By  the  same.  Post  8vo.  5a. 

The  Broad  and  the  Narrow  Way;  Two 
Sermons  preached  before  the  University  of 
Cambridge.  By  the  same.  Crown  8vo.  2a. 


Bev.  T.  H.  Home’s  Introduction 
to  the  Critical  Study  and  Knowledge  of  the 
Holy  Scriptures.  Eleventh  Edition,  cor- 
rected, and  extended  under  careful  Editorial 
revision.  With  4 Maps  and  22  Woodcuts 
and  Facsimiles.  4 vols.  8vo.  £3  13a.  6cL 

Bev.  T.  H.  Home's  Compendious  In- 
troduction to  the  Study  of  the  Bible,  being 
an  Analysis  of  the  larger  work  by  the  same 
Author.  Re-edited  by  the  Rev.  John 
Ay  re,  M.A.  With  Maps,  Ac.  Post  8vo.  9a. 

The  Treasury  of  Bible  Know- 
ledge, on  the  plan  of  Maunder's  Treasuries. 
By  the  Rev.  John  Ayrb,  M.A.  Fcp.  8vo. 
with  Maps  and  Illustrations.  [In  the  press. 

The  Greek  Testament ; with  Notes, 

Grammatical  and  Exegetical.  By  the  Rev. 
W.  Webster,  M.A.  and  the  Rev.  W.  F. 
Wilkinson,  M.A.  2 vols.  8vo.  £1  4a., 

Vol.  I.  the  Gospels  and  Acts,  20a. 

You  IL  the  Epistles  and  Apocalypse,  24a. 

The  Four  Experiments  in  Church 

and  State ; and  the  Conflicts  of  Churches. 
By  Lord  Robert  Montagu,  M.P.  8vo.  12a. 

Every-day  Scripture  Difficulties 

explained  and  illustrated;  Gospels  of  St 
Matthew  and  St.  Mark.  By  J.  E.  Prescott, 
M.A.  late  Fellow  of  C.  C.  Coll.  Cantab. 
8vo.  9a. 

The  Pentateuch  and  Book  of 

Joshua  Critically  Examined.  By  J.  W. 
Colenso,  D.D.  Lord  Bishop  of  Natal. 
Part  I.  the  Pentateuch  examined  as  an  His- 
torical Narrative . 8vo.  6a.  Part  II.  the 
Age  and  Authorship  of  the  Pentateuch  Con- 
sideredt 7s.  6d  Part  III.  the  Book  of 
Deuteronomy,  8a.  Part  IV.  the  First  II 
Chapters  of  Genesis  examined  and  separated, 
with  Remarks  on  the  Creation,  the  Fall,  and 
the  Deluge , 10a.  6 djm 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


14 


NEW.WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


The  Life  and  Epistles  of  St. 

Paul.  By  W.  J.  Conybeark,  M.A.  late 
Fellow  of  Trio.  Coll.  Cantab,  and  J.  S. 
Howson,  D.D.  Principal  of  the  Collegiate 
Institution,  Liverpool. 

Library  Edition,  with  all  the  Original 
Illustrations,  Maps,  Landscapes  on  Steel, 
Woodcuts,  &c.  2 vols.  4to.  48s. 

Intermediate  Edition,  with  a Selection 
of  Maps,  Plates,  and  Woodcuts.  2 vols. 
square  crown  8vo.  81s.  6 d. 

People’s  Edition,  revised  and  con- 
densed, with  46  Illustrations  and  Maps. 
2 vols.  crown  8vo.  12s. 

The  Voyage  and  Shipwreck  of 

St.  Paul ; with  Dissertations  on  the  Ships 
and  Navigation  of  the  Ancients.  By  James 
Smith,  F.R.S.  Crown  8vo.  Charts,  8i.  6 <L 

Hippolytus  and  his  Age ; or,  the 

Beginnings  and  Prospects  of  Christianity. 
By  Baron  Bunsen,  D.D.  2 vols.  8vo.  80s. 

Outlines  of  the  Philosophy  of  Uni- 
versal History,  applied  to  Language  and 
Religion:  Containing  an  Account  of  the 
Alphabetical  Conferences,  By  the  same 
Author.  2 vols.  8vo.  38*. 

Analecta  Ante-Niomna.  By  tho  same 
Author.  3 vols.  8vo.  42*. 

Theologia  Germanica.  Translated 
by  Susanna  Winkworth  : with  a Preface 
by  the  Rev.  C.  Kingsley  ; and  a Letter  by 
Baron  Bunsen.  Fcp.  8vo.  5*. 

Instructions  in  the  Doctrine  and 

Practice  of  Christianity,  as  an  Introduction 
to  Confirmation.  By  G.  E.  L.  Cotton, 
D.D.  Lord  Bishop  of  Calcutta.  18mo.  2*.  BcL 

Essays  on  Religion  and  Litera- 
ture. By  Cardinal  Wiseman,  Dr.  D.  Rock, 
F.  H.  Laing,  and  other  Writers.  Edited 
by  H.  E.  Manning,  D.D.  8vo. 

Essays  and  Reviews.  By  the  Rev. 
W.  Temple,  D.D.  the  Rev.  R.  Williams, 
B.D.  the  Rev.  B.  Powell,  M.A.  the  Rev. 
H.  B.  Wilson,  B.D.  C.  W.  Goodwin,  M.A. 
the  Rev.  M.  Pattison,  B.D.  and  the  Rev. 
B.  Jowett,M.A.  1 1 th  Edition.  Fcp.8ro.5*. 

Mosheim’s  Ecclesiastical  History. 
Murdock  and  Soamks’s  Translation  and 
Notes,  re-edited  by  the  Rev.  W.  Stubbs, 
M.A.  8 vols.  8vo.  45*. 


The  Gentile  and  the  Jew  in  the 

Courts  of  the  Temple  of  Christ : an  Intro- 
duction to  the  History  of  Christianity. 
From  the  German  of  Prof  DCllingiir,  by 
the  Rev.N.  Darnell,  M.A.  2 voh.  8vo.  21*. 

Physico-Prophetical  Essays,  on  the 
Locality  of  the  Eternal  Inheritance,  its 
Nature  and  Character;  the  Resurrection 
Body ; and  the  Mutual  Recognition  of 
Glorified  Saints.  By  the  Rev.  W.  Lister, 
F.G.S.  Crown  8vo.  6*. 

Bishop  Jeremy  Taylor’s  Entire 

Works:  With  Life  by  Bishop  Heber. 
Revised  and  corrected  by  the  Rev.  C.  P. 
Eden,  10  vols.  8vo.  £6  5*. 

Passing  Thoughts  on  Religion. 
By  the  Author  of ( Amy  Herbert'  8th  Edi- 
tion. Fcp.  8vo.  6*. 

Thoughts  for  the  Holy  Week,  for 
Young  Persons.  By  the  same  Author. 
2d  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  2s. 

Night  Lessons  from  Scripture.  By  the 
same  Author.  2d  Edition.  32mo.  3*. 

Self-examination  before  Confirmation. 
By  the  same  Author.  32mo.  1*.  6d. 

Headings  for  a Month  Preparatory  to 
Confirmation  from  Writers  of  the  Early  and 
English  Church.  By  the  same.  Fcp.  4*. 

Headings  for  Every  Day  in  Lent,  com- 
piled from  the  Writings  of  Bishop  Jeremy 
Taylor.  By  the  same.  Fcp.  8vo.  5*. 

Preparation  for  the  Holy  Communion ; 
the  Devotions  chiefly  from  the  works  of 
Jeremy  Taylor.  By  the  same.  82mo.  8*. 

Morning  Clouds,  Socond  Edition. 
Fcp.  8vo.  5*. 

The  Afternoon  of  Life.  By  the  same 
Author.  Second  Edition.  Fcp.  6s. 

Problems  in  Human  Nature.  By  the 
same.  Poet  8vo.  6*. 

The  Wife’s  Manual;  or.  Prayers, 
Thoughts,  and  Songs  on  Several  Occasions 
of  a Matron’s  Life.  By  the  Rev.  W.  Cal- 
vert, M.A.  Crown  8vo.  10a  6 d, 

Spiritual  Songs  for  the  Sundays 

and  Holidays  throughout  the  Year.  By 
J.  8.  B.  Monsell,  LL.D.  Vicar  of 
Third  Edition.  Fcp.  8vo. 


Digitized  by 


Google 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO 


IS 


Hymnologia  Christiana ; or,  Psalms 
and  Hymns  selected  and  arranged  in  the 
order  of  the  Christian  Seasons.  By  B.  H. 
Kennedy,  D.D.  Prebendary  of  Lichfield. 
Crown  8yo.  Is.  6 d. 


Lyra  Domestioa  ; Christian  Songs  for 
Domestic  Edification.  Translated  from  the 
Psaltery  and  Harp  of  C.  J.  P.  Spitta,  and 
from  other  sources,  by  Richard  Mamie. 
First  and  Second  Series,  fcp.  4s.  Qd.  each. 

Lyra  Saora ; Hymns,  Ancient  and 
Modern,  Odes,  and  Fragments  of  Sacred 
Poetry.  Edited  by  the  Rev  B.  W.  Savile, 
M.A  Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 

Lyra  Germ&nioa,  translated  from  the 
German  by  Miss  C.  Wink  worth.  First 
Series,  Hymns  for  the  Sundays  and  Chief 
Festivals;  Second  Series,  the  Christian 
Life.  Fcp.  8vo.  5s.  each  Series. 

Hymns  from  Lyra  Germanioa,  i8mo.  la. 


Lyra  Eucharistioa  ; Hymns  and 
Verses  on  the  Holy  Communion,  Ancient 
and  Modern ; with  other  Poems.  Edited  by 
the  Rev.  Obey  Shipley,  MJL  Second 
Edition,  revised  and  enlarged.  Fcp.  8vo. 

[Just  ready. 

Lyra  Mesaianioa ; Hymns  and  Verses  oa 
tho  Life  of  Christ,  Ancient  and  Modem; 
with  other  Poems.  By  the  same  Editor. 
Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  6d. 

Lyra  Mystic* ; Hymns  and  Verses  on  Sacred 
Subjects,  Ancient  and  Modem.  Forming  a 
companion -volume  to  the  above,  by  the 
same  Editor.  Fcp.  8vo.  [Nearly  ready. 

The  Chorale  Book  for  England ; 

a complete  Hymn-Book  in  accordance  with 
the  Services  and  Festivals  of  the  Church  of 
England : the  Hymns  translated  by  Miss  C. 
Wuskworth  ; the  Tunes  arranged  by  Prof. 
W.  S.  Bennett  and  Otto  Goldschmidt. 
Fcp.  4to.  10s.  6d. 

Congregational  Edition.  Fep.  ls.6d. 


Travels,  Voyages,  c Jr. 


Eastern  Europe  andWestern  Asia. 

Political  and  Social  Sketches  on  Russia, 
Greece,  and  Syria.  By  Henry  A Tilley. 
With  6 Illustrations.  Post  8vo.  10s.  6d.  { 

Explorations  in  South  - west 

Africa,  from  Walvisch  Bay  to  Lake  Ngami. 
By  Thomas  Baines.  8vo.  with  Map  and 
Illustration!.  [In  October. 

South  American  Sketches ; or,  a 
Visit  to  Rio  Janeiro,  the  Organ  Mountains, 
La  Plata,  and  the  Paranh.  By  Thomas  W. 
Hinchlift,  M.A  F.R.G.8.  Post  8vo.  with 
Illustrations,  12s.  Qd. 


Explorations  in  Labrador.  By 
Henry  T.  Hind,  M.A  F.R.G.S.  With 
Maps  and  Illustrations.  2 vols.  8vo.  82s. 

The  Canadian  Bed  River  and  Aisinni- 
boine  and  Saskatchewan  Exploring  Ex- 
peditions. By  the  same  Author.  With 
Maps  and  Illustrations.  2 vols.  8vo.  42s. 


The  Capital  of  the  Tycoon;  a 

Narrative  of  a 3 Years’  Residence  in  Japan. 
By  Sir  Rutherford  Alcock,  K.C.B. 
2 vols.  8vo.  with  numerous  Illustrations,  42s. 

Last  Winter  in  Borne  and  other 
Italian  Cities.  By  C.  R.  Weld,  Author  of 
4 The  Pyrenees,  West  and  East,’  Ac.  1 vol. 
post  8vo.  with  a Portrait  of  * Stella,’  and 
Engravings  on  Wood  from  Sketches  by  the 
Author.  [In  the  Autumn. 

Autumn  Rambles  in  North 

Africa,  including  Excursions  in  Algeria  and 
Tunis.  By  John  Ormsby,  Author  of  the 
4 Ascent  of  the  Grivola,’  in  ‘ Peaks,  Passes, 
and  Glaciers,’  With  9 Vignettes  and  4 full- 
page  Illustrations  on  Wood  from  Sketches 
by  the  Author.  Post  8vo. 

The  Dolomite  Mountains.  Excur- 
sions through  Tyrol,  Carinthia,  Carniola,and 
Friuli  in  1861,  1862,  and  1863.  By  J. 
Gilbert  and  G.  C.  Churchill,  F.R.G.S. 
With  numerous  Illustrations.  Square  crown 
8vo.  21a, 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


16 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Peaks, Passes,  and  Glaciers ; a Series 
of  Excursions  by  Members  of  the  Alpine 
' Club.  Edited  by  J.  Ball,  M.R.I.A. 
Fourth  Edition ; Maps,  Illustrations,  Wood- 
cuts.  Square  crown  8vo.  21*. — Travellers’ 
Edition,  condensed,  lCmg.  5*.  6 d. 

Second  Series,  edited  by  E.  8.  Kennedy, 
M.A.  F.R.G.S.  With  many  Maps  and 
Illustrations.  2 vols.  square  crown  8vo.  42*. 

Nineteen  Haps  of  the  Alpine  Districts, 
from  the  First  and  Second  Series  of  Peaks, 
Passes , and  Glaciers . Price  7*.  6cf. 

Mountaineering  in  1861 ; a Vaca- 
tion Tour.  By  Prof.  J.  Tyndall,  F.R.S. 
Square  crown  8vo.  with  2 Views,  Is.  6 d. 

A Summer  Tour  in  the  Grisons 

and  Italian  Valleys  of  the  Bernina.  By 
Mrs.  Henry  Fresh  field.  With  2 Coloured 
Maps  and  4 Views.  Post  8m  10*.  Gd. 

Alpine  Byways  ; or,  Light  Leaves  gathered 
in  1859  and  1860.  By  the  same  Authoress. 
Post  8vo.  with  Illustrations,  10*.  6 d 

A Lady’s  Tour  Round  Monte  Rosa; 

including  Visits  to  the  Italian  Valleys. 
With  Map  and  Illustrations.  Post  8vo.  14*. 


Guide  to  the  Pyrenees,  for  the  use 
of  Mountaineers.  By  Charles  P acre. 
With  Maps,  &c.  and  a new  Appendix. 
Fcp.  6*. 

Guide  to  the  Central  Alps,  in- 
cluding the  Bernese  Oberland,  Eastern 
Switzerland,  Lombardy,  and  Western  Tyrol. 
By  John  Ball,  M.R.I.A.  Post  8vo.  with 
Maps.  lIn  June* 

Guide  to  the  Western  Alps.  By  the 
same  Author.  With  an  Article  on  the 
Geology  of  the  Alps  by  M.  K Desor.  Post 
8 vo.  with  Maps,  &c.  7*.  6 d. 

A Week  at  the  Land’s  End. 

By  J.  T.  Blight  ; assisted  by  E.  II.  Rodd, 
R.  Q.  Couch,  and  J.  Ralfs.  With  Map 
and  96  Woodcuts.  Fcp.  8vo.  6*.  6 d 

Visits  to  Remarkable  Places : 

Old  Halls,  Battle-Fields,  and  Scenes  illus- 
trative  of  Striking  Passages  in  English 
History  and  Poetry.  By  William  IIowitt. 
2 vols.  square  crown  8vo.  with  Wood  En- 
gravings, 25*. 

The  Rural  Life  of  England. 

By  the  same  Author.  With  Woodcuts  by 
Bewick  and  Williams.  Medium  8vo.  12*.  6 d 


Works  of  Fiction. 


Late  Laurels  : a Tale.  By  the  Author 
of  ‘ Wheat  and  Tares.’  2 vols.  post  8vo.  15*. 

Gryll  Grange.  By  the  Author  of 

* Headlong  Hall.*  Post  8vo.  Is.  6<L 

A First  Friendship.  [Reprinted  from 
Fraser's  Magazine.  ] Crown  8vo.  7*.  Gd 

Thalatta ; or,  the  Great  Commoner  : a 
Political  Romance.  Crown  8vo.  9*. 

Atherstone  Priory.  By  L.  N.  Comtn. 
2 vols.  post  8vo. 

Ellice : a Tale.  By  the  same.  Poet  8vo.  9*.  Gd. 

The  Last  of  the  Old  Squires. 

By  the  Rev.  J.  W.  Warter,  B.D.  Second 
Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  4*.  Gd. 


Tales  and  Stories  by  the  Author 

of  4 Amy  Herbert,*  uniform  Edition,  each 
Story  or  Tale  in  a single  volume. 


Amy  Herbert,  2*.  Gd. 
Gertrude,  2*.  Gd. 
Earl’s  Daughter, 
2s.  Gd. 

Experience  of  Life, 
2s.  Gd. 

Clkve  Hall,  8*.  6d 
Ivors,  8*.  6dL 


Katharine  Ashton, 
8*.  Gd. 

Margaret  Pkrci- 
val,  5*. 

Lanbton  Par- 
sonage, 4*.  Gd. 
Ursula,  4*.  Gd. 


A Glimpse  of  the  World.  By  the  Author 
of  ‘ Amy  Herbert.*  Fcp.  8vo.  7s.  Gd. 

Essays  on  Fiction  ; comprising  Arti- 
cles on  Sir  W.  Scott,  Sir  E.  B.  Lytton, 
Colonel  Senior,  Mr.  Thackeray,  and  Mrs. 
Beecher  Stowe.  Reprinted  chiefly  from 
the  Edinburgh,  Quarterly,  and  Westminster 
Reviews  ; with  large  Additions.  By 
Nassau  W.  Senior.  Post  8m  10*.  Gd. 


Digitized  by  v^ooQie 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  axd  CO. 


17 


The  Gladiators  : a Tale  of  Rome  and 
Judas.  By  G.  J.  Whyte  Melville. 
Crown  8vo.  5s. 

Digby  Grand,  an  Autobiography.  By  the 
same  Author.  1 voL  5s. 

Kate  Coventry,  an  Autobiography.  By  tho 
same.  1 voL  5s. 

General  Bounce,  or  the  Lady  and  the  Lo- 
custs. By  the  same.  1 voL  5s. 

Holmby  House,  a Tale  of  Old  Northampton- 
shire. 1 voL  5a 

Good  for  Nothing,  or  All  Down  Hill.  By 
the  same.  1 vol.  Gs. 

The  Queen’s  Maries,  a Romance  of  Holy- 
rood.  1 vol.  6s. 

The  Interpreter,  a Tale  of  the  War.  By 
the  same.  1 vol.  5s. 


Tales  from  Greek  Mythology. 

By  the  Rev.  G.  W.  Cox,  M.A.  late  Scholar 
of  Triii.  Coll.  Oxon.  Second  Edition.  Square 

16mo.  8s.  Gd. 

\ 

Tales  of  the  Gods  and  Heroes.  By  the 
same  Author.  Second  Edition.  Fcp.8vo.  5s. 


Tales  of  Thebes  and  Argos.  By  the  same 
Author.  Fcp.  8vo.  4s.  6 dL 

The  Warden  : a Novel.  By  Anthony 
Trollope,  Crown  8vo.  8s.  6 <L 

Barohester  Towers:  a Sequel  to  *Tho 
Warden.'  By  the  same  Author.  Crown 
8vo.  5s. 

The  Six  Sisters  of  the  Valleys: 

an  Historical  Romance.  By  W.  Bramley- 
Moorb,  M.A.  Incumbent  of  Gerrard's  Cross 
Bucks.  With  14  Hlustraiions  or  Wood. 
Crown  8vo.  5s. 


Poeti-y  and  the  Drama. 


Moore’s  Poetical  Works,  Cheapest 

Editions  complete  in  1 vol.  including  tl»« 
Autobiographical  Prefaces  and  Author’s  last 
Notes,  which  are  still  copyright.  Crown 
8vo.  ruby  type,  with  Portrait,  7s.  6d.  or 
People’s  Edition,  in  larger  type,  12s.  8 cL 

Moore's  Poetical  Works,  as  above,  Library 
Edition,  medium  8vo.  with  Portrait  and 
Yignette,  21s.  or  in  10  vols.  fcp.  8s.  Gd.  each. 

TenniePs  Edition  of  Moore’s 

Lalla  Rookh,  with  68  Wood  Engravings 
from  Original  Drawings  and  other  Illustra- 
tions. Fcp.  4to.  2 Is. 

Moore’s  Lalla  Rookh.  32mo.  Plate,  is. 
16mo.  Yignette,  2s.  6 d.  Square  crown  8vo. 
with  18  Plates,  15s. 

Maclise’s  Edition  of  Moore’s  Irish 
Melodies,  with  161  Steel  Plates  from  Original 
Drawings.  Super-royal  8vo.  81s.  6 d. 

Moore's  Irish  Melodies,  32mo.  Portrait, 
Is.  16mo.  Yignette,  2s.  6 d.  Square  crown 
8 vo.  with  13  Plates,  21s. 


Southey’s  Poetical  Works,  with 

the  Author’s  last  Corrections  and  copyright 
Additions.  Library  Edition,  in  1 vol. 
medium  8vo.  with  Portrait  and  Yignette, 
14s.  or  in  10  vols.  fcp.  3s.  Gd.  each. 

Lays  of  Ancient  Home ; with  Ivry 

and  the  Armada.  By  the  Right  Hon.  Lord 
Macaulay.  16mo.  4s.  Gd. 

Lord  Macaulay’s  Lays  of  A ncient 
Rome.  With  90  Illustrations  ou  Wood, 
Original  and  from  the  Antique,  from 
Drawings  by  G.  Sen  ark.  Fcp.  4 to.  21s. 

Poems.  By  Jean  Ihqblow.  Sixth  Edi- 
tion. Fcp.  8 vo.  5s. 

Poetical  Works  of  Letitia  Eliza- 

beth Landon  (L.E.L.)  2 vols.  16mo.  10s. 

Playtime  with  the  Poets : a Selec- 
tion of  the  best  English  Poetry  for  the  use 
of  Children.  By  a Lady.  Crown  8vo.  os. 

The  BeYolutionary  Epiok.  By  the 
Rt.  Hon.  Benjamin  Disraeli  .Fcp.  8vo.  5s. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


18 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Bowdler’s  1 Family  Shakspeare, 

cheaper  Genuine  Edition,  complete  in  1 vol. 
large  type,  with  86  Woodcut  Illustrations, 
price  14s.  or,  with  the  same  Illustrations, 
in  6 pocket  vola.  6s.  each. 


An  English  Tragedy ; Mary  Stuart, 
from  Schiller;  and  Mdlle.  De  Belie  Isle, 
from  A.  Dumas,— each  a Play  in  5 Acta,  by 
Frances  Anne  Kemble.  Post  8vo.  12*. 


Rural  Sports,  $c. 


Encyclopaedia  of  Rural  Sports ; 

a Complete  Account,  Historical,  Practical, 
and  Descriptive,  of  Hunting,  Shooting, 
Fishing,  Racing,  &c.  By  D.  P.  Blaine. 
With  above  600  Woodcuts  (20  from  Designs 
by  John  Leech).  8vo.  42s. 

CoL  Hawker’s  Instructions  to 

Young  Sportsmen  in  all  that  relates  to  Guns 
and  Shooting.  Revised  by  the  Author’s  Son. 
Square  crown  8vo.  with  Illustrations,  18s. 

Notes  on  Rifle  Shooting.  By  Cap- 
tain  Heaton,  Adjutant  of  the  Third  Man- 
chester Rifle  Volunteer  Corps.  Fcp.8vo.  2s.6d 

The  Dead  Shot, or  Sportsman’s  Complete 
Guide ; a Treatise  on  the  Use  of  the  Gun, 
Dog-breaking,  Pigeon-shooting,  &c.  By 
Marksman.  Fcp.  8vo.  with  Plates,  6s. 

The  Chase  of  the  Wild  Red  Deer 

in  Devon  and  Somerset.  By  C.  P.  Colltns. 
With  Map  and  Illustrations.  Square  crown 
8vo.  16*. 

The  Fly  - Fisher’s  Entomology. 
Ry  Alfred  Ronalds.  With  coloured 
Representations  of  the  Natural  and  Artifi- 
cial Insect  6th  Edition;  with  20  coloured 
Plates.  8vo.  14*. 


Hand-book  of  Angling : Teaching 
Fly-fishing,  Trolling,  Bottom- fishing.  Sal- 
mon-fishing ; with  the  Natural  History  of 
River  Fish,  and  the  best  modes  of  Catching 
them.  By  Ephemera.  Fcp.  Woodcuts,  6*. 


The  Cricket  Field ; or,  the  History 
and  the  Science  of  the  Game  of  Cricket  By 
J.  Pycroft,  B.A.  Trin.  Coll.  Oxon.  4th 
Edition.  Fcp.  8vo.  6s. 

The  Cricket  Tutor ; a Treatise  exclusively 
Practical.  By  the  same.  18mo.  Is. 

The  Horse’s  Foot,  and  how  to  keep 
it  Sound.  By  W.  Miles,  Esq.  9th  Edition, 
with  Illustrations.  Imp.  8vo.  12s.  6dL 

A Plain  Treatise  on  Horse-shoeing.  By 
the  same  Author.  Post  8vo.  with  Illustra- 
tions, 2s. 

General  Remarks  on  Stables,  and  Ex- 
amples of  Stable  Fittings.  By  the  same. 
Imp.  8vo.  with  18  Plates,  15s. 

The  Horse : with  a Treatise  on  Draught. 
By  William  Youatt.  New  Edition,  re- 
vised and  enlarged.  8vo.  with  numerous 
Woodcuts,  10s.  6 <L 

The  Dog.  By  the  same  Author.  8vo.  with 
numerous  Woodcuts,  6s. 

The  Dog  in  Health  and  Disease. 
By  Stonehenge.  With  70  Wood  En- 
gravings. Square  crown  8vo.  15s. 

The  Greyhound.  By  the  same.  With 
many  Illustrations.  Square  crown  8vo.  21s. 

The  Ox ; his  Diseases  and  their  Treat- 
ment : with  an  Essay  on  Parturition  in  the 
Cow.  By  J.  R.  Dobson,  M.R.C.VA  Poet 
8vo.  with  Illustrations.  [Just  ready. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


NEW  WORKS  published  BT  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


19 


Commerce , Navigation , 

The  Law  of  Nations  Considered 

as  Independent  Political  Communities.  By 
Travers  Twiss,  D.C.L.  Regius  Professor 
of  Civil  Law  in  the  University  of  Oxford. 

2 vols.  8vo.  30s.  or  separately.  Part  L Peace, 
12 s.  Part  II.  War , 18*. 

A Dictionary,  Practical,  Theo- 
retical, and  Historical,  of  Commerce  and 
Commercial  Navigation.  By  J.  R.  M*Cul- 
loch,  Esq.  8vo.  with  Maps  and  Plans,  50*. 

The  Study  of  Steam  and  the 

Marine  Engine,  for  Young  Sea  Officers.  By 
S.  M.  Saxby,  R.N.  Post  8vo.  with  87 
Diagrams,  5a  6 d. 


and  Mercantile  Affairs. 

A Nautical  Dictionary,  defining 
the  Technical  Language  relative  to  the 
Building  and  Equipment  of  Sailing  Vessels 
and  Steamers,  & c.  By  Arthur  Young. 
Second  Edition  j with  Plates  and  150  Wood- 
cuts.  8vo.  18*. 

A Manual  for  Naval  Cadets.  By 

J.  M‘N  bil  Boyd,  late  Captain  R.N.  Third 
Edition ; with  240  Woodcuts,  and  11  coloured 
Plates.  Post  8vo.  12*.  6cL 

***  Every  Cadet  in  the  Royal  Nary  is  required 
by  the  Regulations  of  the  Admiralty  to  have  a 
copy  of  this  work  on  his  entry  into  the  Navy. 


Works  of  Utility  and 

Modern  Cookery  for  Private 

Families,  reduced  to  a System  of  Easy 
Practice  in  a Series  of  carefully ‘tested 
Receipts.  By  Eliza  Acton.  Newly  re- 
vised and  enlarged;  with  8 Plates,  Figures, 
and  150  Woodcuts.  Fcp.  8vo.  7*.  6 d. 

On  Food  and  its  Digestion ; an 
Introduction  to  Dietetics.  By  W.  Brinton, 
M.D.  Physician  to  St  Thomas's  Hoepital, 
Ac.  With  48  Woodcuts.  Post  8vo.  12*. 

Adulterations  Detected ; or,  Plain 
Instructions  for  the  Discovery  of  Frauds  in 
Food  and  Medicine.  By  A.  H.  Hassall, 
M.D.  Crown  8vo.  with  Woodcuts,  17*.  &£ 

The  Vine  and  its  Fruit,  in  rela- 
tion to  the  Production  of  Wine.  By  Jakes 
L.  Denman.  Crown  8vo.  8*.  &£ 

Wine,  the  Vine,  and  the  Cellar. 
By  Thomas  G.  Shaw.  With  28  Illustra- 
tions on  Wood.  8vo.  16*. 

A Practical  Treatise  on  Brewing ; 

with  Formula  for  Public  Brewers,  and  In- 
structions for  Private  Families.  By  W 
Black.  8vo.  10*.  6d. 


General  Information. 

Short  Whist ; its  Rise,  Progress,  and 
Laws:  with  the  Laws  of  Piquet,  Cassino, 
Ecartl,  Cribbage,  and  Backgammon.  By 
Major  A.  Fcp.  8vo.  3*. 

Hints  on  Etiquette  and  the 

Usages  of  Society ; with  a Glance  at  Bad 
Habits.  Revised,  with  Additions,  by  a Lady 
of  Rank.  Fcp.  8vo.  2*.  6 d. 

The  Cabinet  Lawyer;  a Popular 
Digest  of  the  Laws  of  England,  Civil  and 
Criminal.  19<A  Edition , extended  by  the 
Author ; including  the  Acts  of  the  Sessions 
1862  and  1863.  Fcp.  8vo.  10*.  6d 

The  Philosophy  of  Health ; or,  an 

Exposition  of  the  Physiological  and  Sanitary 
Conditions  conducive  to  Human  Longevity 
and  Happiness.  By  Southwood  Smith, 
M.D.  Eleventh  Edition,  revised  and  en- 
larged; with  New  Plates.  8vo.  [Vert  ready. 

Hints  to  Mothers  on  the  Manage- 
ment of  their  Health  during  the  Period  of 
Pregnancy  and  in  the  Lying-in  Room.  By 
T.  Bull,  M.D.  Fcp.  8vo.  5*. 

The  Maternal  Management  of  Children 
in  Health  and  Disease.  By  the  same 
Author.  Fcp,  8vo.  5*. 


Digitized  by  foozle 


20 


NEW  WORKS  published  BY  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Notes  on  Hospitals.  By  Florence 
Nightingale.  Third  Edition,  enlarged; 
with  13  Plans.  Post  4 to.  18*. 


C.  M.  Willich’s  Popular  Tables 

for  Ascertaining  the  Value  of  Lifehold, 
Leasehold,  and  Church  Property,  Renewal 
Fines,  &c.;  the  Public  Funds;  Annual 
Average  Price  and  Interest  on  Consols  from 
1731  to  1861  ; Chemical,  Geographical, 
Astronomical,  Trigonometrical  Tables,  See. 
Post  8vo.  10*. 


Thomson’s  Tables  of  Interest, 

at  Three,  Four,  Four  and  a Half,  and  Fire 
per  Cent,  from  One  Pound  to  Ten  Thousand 
and  from  1 to  365  Days.  12mo.  8s.  6dL 

Maunder’s  Treasury  of  Know- 
ledge and  Library  of  Reference : comprising 
an  English  Dictionary  and  Grammar,  a Uni- 
versal Gazetteer,  a Classical  Dictionary, 
a Chronology,  a Law  Dictionary,  a Synopsis 
of  the  Peerage,  usefrtl  Tables,  Ac.  Fcp. 
8ro.  10*. 


General  and 

An  Elementary  Atlas  of  History 

and  Geography,  from  the  commencement  of 
the  Christian  Era  to  the  Present  Time,  in 
16  coloured  Maps,  chronologically  arranged, 
with  illustrative  Memoirs.  By  the  Rev. 
J.  S.  B re  web,  M.A.  Royal  8vo.  12*.  6 d. 

Bishop  Butler’s  Atlas  of  Modern 

Geography,  in  a Series  of  33  full -coloured 
Maps,  accompanied  by  a complete  Alpha- 
betical Index.  New  Edition,  corrected  and 
enlarged.  Royal  8vo.  10*.  6 d. 

Bishop  Butler’s  Atlas  of  Ancient 

Geography,  in  a Series  of  24  frill-coloured 
Maps,  accompanied  by  a complete  Accen- 
tuated Index.  New  Edition,  corrected  and 
enlarged.  Royal  8vo.  12*. 


School  Atlases. 

School  Atlas  of  Physical,  Poli- 
tical,  and  Commercial  Geography,  in  17 
full-coloured  Maps,  accompanied  by  de- 
scriptive Letterpress.  By  E.  Hughes, 
F.R.A.S.  Royal  8vo.  10*.  Gd 

Middle-Class  Atlas  of  General 

Geography,  in  a Series  of  29  full-coloured 
Maps,  containing  the  most  recent  Terri- 
torial Changes  and  Discoveries.  By  Walter 
M*Leod,  F.R.G.S.  4to.  5*. 

Physical  Atlas  of  Great  Britain 

and  Ireland;  comprising  80  full -coloured 
Maps,  with  illustrative  Letterpress,  forming 
a concise  Synopsis  of  British  Physical  Geo- 
graphy. By  Walter  M*Leod,  F.R.G.S. 
Fcp.  4to.  7*.  6 d 


Periodical  Publications. 


The  Edinburgh  Review,  or  Cri- 
tical  Journal,  published  Quarterly  in  Janu- 
ary, April,  July,  and  October.  8vo,  price 
6*.  each  No. 

The  Geological  Magazine,  or 

Monthly  Journal  of  Geology,  edited  by 
T.  Rupert  Jones,  F.G.S.  assisted  by 
Henry  Woodward,  F.G.S.  8vo.  price 
1».  6 d each  No. 


Fraser’s  Magazine  for  Town  and 

Country,  published  on  the  1st  of  each 
Month.  8vo.  price  2*.  6 d each  No. 

The  Alpine  Journal:  a Record  of 

Mountain  Adventure  and  Scientific  Obser- 
vation. By  Members  of  the  Alpine  Clnb. 
Edited  by  H.  B.  George,  M.A.  Published 
Quarterly,  May  31,  Aug.  31,  Nov.  30,  Feb. 
28.  8vo.  price  1*.  6 d each  No. 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


INDEX 


Acton’s  Modern  Cookery  19 

Afternoon  of  Life 1* 

Alcock’s  Residence  in  Japan. 15 

Alpine  Guide  (The) 19 

Journal  (The) 90 

Ar John’s  Manual  of  the  Metalloids 0 

Araoo's  Biographies  of  Scientific  Men  ....  4 

Popular  Astronomy 7 

Meteorological  Essays' 7 

Arnold’s  Manual  of  English  Literature. ...  6 

Arnott’s  Elements  of  Physics 8 

Atherstone  Priory  15 

Atkinson’s  Papinian  4 

Ayrl’s  Treasury  of  Bible  Knowledge IS 

Bacon’s  Essays,  by  Whatbly 4 

Life  and  Letters,  by  Sfbddino.  ...  S 

Works,  by  Ellis,  Sfbddino,  and 

Heath 4 

Bain  on  the  Emotions  and  Will.  9 

on  the  Senses  and  Intellect 9 

on  the  Study  of  Character 9 

Baines’s  Explorations  in  S.W.  Africa  ....  15 

Ball’s  Guide  to  the  Central  Alps. 19 

Guide  to  the  Western  Alps 19 

Bayldon’s  Rents  and  Tillages IS 

Berlefsch’s  Life  and  Nature  in  the  Alps..  8 

Black’s  Treatise  on  Brewing 19 

Blackley  and  Fribdlandbr’s  German 

and  English  Dictionary 5 

Blaine’s  Rural  Sports 18 

Blight’s  Week  at  the  Land’s  End 19 


Bourn  e's  Catechism  of  the  Steam  Engine. . 12 

Treatise  on  the  Steam  Engine. ...  19 

Bowdler’s  Family  Shakspearb 18 

Boyd's  Manual  for  Naval  Cadets 19 

BRAMLRY-MooRE’sSixSistersof  the  Valleys  17 
Bra  nob’s  Dictionary  of  Science,  Literature, 


and  Art 9 

Bray’s  (C.)  Education  of  the  Feelings 7 

Philosophy  of  Necessity 7 

(Mrs.)  British  Empire 7 

Brewer’s  Atlas  of  History  and  Geography  90 

Brinton  on  Food  and  Digestion 19 

Bbistow’s  Glossary  of  Mineralogy 8 

B rod m’s  (Sir  C.  B.)  Psychological  Inquiries  7 

Works 11 

Brown’s  Demonstrations  of  Microscopic 

Anatomy*. 10 

Browne’s  Exposition  of  the  89  Articles  ....  18 

Pentateuch  and  Elohistic  Psalms  IS 

Buckle’s  History  of  Civilisation 9 

Bull’s  Hints  to  Mothers 19 

Maternal  Management  of  Children. . 19 

Bu nsbn’s  Analecta  Ante-Nicsena  14 

— Ancient  Egypt 9 

Hippolytus  and  his  Age 14 


Bunsen’s  Philosophy  of  Universal  History  14 
Bunyan’s  Pilgrim’s  Progress,  illustrated  by 

Bennbtt I* 

Burke’s  Vicissitudes  of  Families 4 

Butler’s  Atlas  of  Ancient  Geography  ....  20 
Modern  Geography 20 


Cabinet  Lawyer 19 

Calvert’s  Wife’s  Manual  14 

Cats  and  Farlib’s  Moral  Emblems 11 

Chorale  Book  for  England 15* 

Colhnbo  (Bishop)  on  Pentateuch  and  Book 

of  Joshua 19- 

Colly  ns  on  8tag-Hunting  in  Devon  and 

Somerset I* 

Commonplace  Philosopher  in  Town  and 

Country 9 

Companions  of  my  Solitude 6 

Coninoton’s  Handbook  of  Chemical  Ana- 
lysis   9 

Contanseau’s  Pocket  French  and  English 

Dictionary 5 

Practical  ditto 

Comybeakb  and  Howbon’s  Life  and  Epistles 

of  St  Paul 14 

Copland’s  Dictionary  of  Practical  Medicine  10 

— — Abridgment  of  ditto 10 

Cotton’s  Introduction  to  Confirmation ....  It 

Cos’s  Tales  of  the  Great  Persiau  War 2 

Tales  from  Greek  Mythology 17 

Tales  of  the  Gods  and  Heroes 17 

Tales  of  Thebes  and  Argos  17 

Crest’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Civil  Engineering  12. 
Crowe’s  History  of  France 2 


D’Aubione’s  History  of  the  Reformation  in 

the  time  of  Calvin 9- 

Dead  Shot  (The),  by  Marksman 18 

Db  la  Rive’s  Treatise  on  Electricity 8 

Denman’s  Vine  and  its  Fruit 1SK 

De  Tocuurvillb’s  Democracy  in  America  2 

Diaries  of  a Lady  of  Quality S 

Disraeli’s  Revolutionary  Spick 17 

Dixon’s  Fasti  Eboracetues 8 

Dobson  on  the  Ox 18 

DCllinoer’s  Introduction  to  History  of 

Christianity  14 

Dove’s  Law  of  Storms  7 

Doyle’s  Chronicle  of  England 1- 


Edinburgh  Review  (The)  SB 

Ellice,  a Tale 16 

Ellicott’s  Broad  and  Narrow  Way 18 

——Commentary  on  Ephesians ....  13 

Destiny  of  the  Creature 13 

Lectures  on  Life  of  Christ  .....  13 


Digitized  by  foozle 


22 


SEYV  WORKS  published  BY  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Kllicott’s  Commentary  on  Galatians  ....  13 

Pastoral  Epist.  13 

Philippians,&c.  13 

; Theasalonians  13 

Essays  and  Reviews 14 

Essays  on  Religion  and  Literature,  edited  by 

Manning 14 

Essays  written  iu  the  Intervals  of  Business  6 

Fairbairn’s  Application  of  Cast  and 

Wrought  Iron  to  Building 13 

Information  for  Engineers  . . 12 

Treatise  on  Mills  fc  Mill  work  12 

First  Friendship  16 

Fitz  Roy’s  Weather  Book  i 7 

Forster’s  Life  of  Sir  John  Eliot 3 

Fowler’s  Collieries  and  Colliers  12 

Fraser’s  Magazine  ...”  20 

Fresh  field’s  Alpine  Byways 16 

Tour  in  the  Grisons 16 

Friends,  in  Council 6 

From  Matter  to  Spirit  *...*!!!!!!  6 

Froude’s  History  of  England. .....  1 

Garratt’s  Marvels  and  Mysteries  of  Instinct  9 

Geological  Magazine  30 

GiLBBRTand  Churchill’s  Dolomite Moun-' 

tains 15 

Goodbye’s  Elements  of  Mechanism. .......  11 

Gorlb’s  Questions  on  Browne’s  Exposition 

of  the  39  Articles 13 

Gray’s  Anatomy *’*  10 

Green  e’s  Manual  of  Coelenterata  * * 8 

Manual  of  Protozoa  ' 8 

Grove  on  Correlation  of  Physical  Forces  ..  8 

Gryll  Grange 16 

G wilt’s  Encyclopaedia  of  Architecture  ....  1 1 

Handbook  of  Angling,  by  Ephemera 18 

Hartwio’s  Sea  and  its  Living  Wonders 9 

Tropical  World  9 

Hassall's  Adulterations  Detected * 19 

British  Freshwater  Alg*  9 

Hawker’s  Instructions  to  Young  Sports- 
men   18 

Heaton’s  Notes  on  Rifle  Shooting  is 

Helps’s  Spanish  Conquest  in  America  !!!!  2 

Hbrschel’s  Essays  from  the  Edinburgh  and 

Quarterly  Reviews  9 

Outline*  of  Astronomy , 7 

Hiwitt  on  the  Diseases  of  Women 10 

Hinghliff’b  South  American  Sketches ....  15 
Hind’s  Canadian  Exploring  Expeditions  .,  15 

Explorations  in  Labrador 15 

Hints  on  Etiquette 19 

Holland’s  Chapters  on  Mental  Physiology  fl 

-Essays  on  Scientific  Subjects  ..  9 

7“ -Medical  Note*  and  Reflections  11 

Holmes’*  System  of  Surgery 10 

Hooker  and  Walkbb-arnott’s  British 

Kora 9 

Hooper’s  Medical  Dictionary * ” 1 1 

Horne’s  Introduction  to  the  Scriptures.. ..  13 

— - Compendium  of  ditto 13 

Hoskyns’s  Thipa  * w 

Howitt’s  History  of  the  Supernatural  . . 6 

Rural  Life  of  England iq 

— Viaits  to  Remarkable  Places  ....  16 


I 


Howson’s  Hulsean  Lectures  on  St.  PauL . . 13 

Hughes’s  (E.)  Atlas  of  Physical,  Political, 

and  Commercial  Geography 39 

(W.)  Geography  of  British  His- 
tory   7 

" Manual  of  Geography 7 

Hullah’s  History  of  Modern  Music  ......  3 

Hymns  from  Lyra  German  tea 15 

Ingblow’s  Poems 17 

Jameson’s  Legends  of  the  Saints  and  Mar- 

ty™ •••;* 11 

Legends  of  the  Madonna  11 

Legends  of  the  Monastic  Orders  1 1 

Jamb8on  and  Eastlake’s  History  of  Oar 


Lord 


11 


! Johns’s  Home  Walks  and  Holiday  Rambles  9 

; Johnson’s  Patentee’s  Manual  19 

Practical  Draughtsman 13 

I Johnston’s  Gazetteer,  or  Geographical  Die- 

1 tionary 7 

Jones’s  Christianity  and  Common  Sense*.  * 7 

I 

Kalisch’s  Commentary  on  the  Old  Testa- 
ment   5 

Hebrew  Grammar 5 

Kemble’s  Plays )9 

Kennedy’s  Hymnologia  Christiana  15 

Kirby  and  Spence’s  Entomology  9 

Lady’s  Tour  round  Monte  Rosa If 

Landon’s  (L.  E.  L.)  Poetical  Works ..*  17 

Late  Laurels ” 19 

Latham’s  Comparative  Philology  ..  ..  .. . ’ 5 

English  Dictionary 5 

Handbook  of  the  English  Lan- 

5 

Work  on  the  English  Language  3 

Leisure  Hours  in  Town 6 

Lewes’s  Biographical  History  of  Philosophy  2 
Lewis  on  the  Astronomy  of  the  Ancients  ..  4 

on  the  Credibility  of  Early  Roman 

History  4 

Dialogue  on  Government 4 

on  Egyptological  Method 4 

* Esaays  on  Administrations 4 

Fablea  of  Babrius 4 

on  Foreign  Jurisdiction  4 


" on  Irish  Disturbances 4 

on  Observation  and  Reasoning  in 

Politics 4 

— * on  Political  Terms 4 

on  the  Romance  Languages  4 

Li  ddbll  and  Scott’s  Greek -English  Lexicon  5 

Abridged  ditto  5 

Lindlet  and  Moore's  Treasury  of  Botany.  9 

Lister's  Physico- Prophetical  Essays 14 

Longman’s  Lectures  on  the  History  of  Eng- 
land   ^ I 

Loudon's  Encyclopaedia  of  Agriculture . .' . 12 

Cottage,  Farm, 

and  Villa  Architecture 12 

Gardening  ....  12 

‘ — — Plants  9 

7 Tree*  and  Shrubs  9 

Lowndes's  Engineer’s  Handbook  1 1 


Digitized  by  foozle 


23 


NEW  WORKS  published  by  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


Lyra  Domestics  15 

Eucharistic* 15 

Germanica  11,  15 

Messianic*  15 

Mystic* 15 

Sacra 15 


Macaulay’s  (Lord)  Essays. 

’History  of  England 

Lays  of  Ancient  Rome 

Miscellaneous  Writings 

Speeches . 

— Speeches  on  Parliamentary 

Reform 

Macbrair’s  Africans  at  Home 

Macdouoall’s  Theory  of  War 

McLbod's  Middle-Class  Atlas  of  General 

Geography 

Physical  Atlas  of  Great  Britain 

and  Ireland  

McCulloch’s  Dictionary  of  Commerce. . . . 

Geographical  Dictionary .... 

Maguire’s  Life  of  Father  Mathew  ........ 

Rome  and  its  Rulers 

Maling’s  Indoor  Gardener 

Maps  from  Peaks,  Passes,  and  Glaciers  .... 
Marshall’s  History  of  Christian  Missions 

Massey’s  History  of  England 

Maunder’s  Biographical  Treasury 

Geographical  Treasury 

Historical  Trtasury  

Scientific  and  Literary  Treasury 

Treasury  of  Knowledge. ....... 

Treasury  of  Natural  History  .. 

Maury’s  Physical  Geography 

May’s  Constitutional  History  of  England  .. 

Melville’s  Digby  Grand  

General  Bounce 

Gladiators  

Good  for  Nothing 

Holmby  House  

Interpreter 

—  Kate  Coventry 

■ — Queen’s  Maries 

Mendelssohn’s  Letters 

Mrnzies’  Windsor  Great  Park 

Merivale’s  (H.)  Colonisation  and  Colonies 

(C.)  Fall  of  the  Roman  Republic 

Romans  under  the  Empire 

Meryon’s  History  of  Medicine 

Miles  on  Horse’s  Foot 

on  Horse  Shoeing 

on  Stables  

Mill  en  Liberty 

on  Representative  Government 

—on  Utilitarianism 

Mill’s  Dissertations  and  Discussions 

- Political  Economy  

System  of  Logic 

Miller’s  Elements  of  Chemistry 

Monsell’s  Spiritual  Songs 

Montagu’s  Experiments  in  Church  and 

State 

Montgomery  on  the  Signs  and  Symptoms 

of  Pregnancy 

Moore’s  Irish  Melodies  

LallaRookh  

Memoirs,  Journal,  and  Correspon- 
dence   


9 ; 

1 1 
17 
6 
5 

5 I 
8 


20 

20 

19 

7 

8 
8 
9 

16  I 
2 

1 

4 

8 

2 

9 

20 

9 

7 
1 

17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 

17 

8 

18 

7 
2 
2 

8 
18 
18 
18 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

4 

10 
14 

13 

10 

17 

17 

3 


Moore’s  Poetical  Works 17 

Morbll’s  Elements  of  Psychology 6 

Mental  Philosophy 6 

Morning  Clouds  14 

Morton’s  Handbook  of  Dairy  Husbandry. . 12 

■ Farm  Labour 12 

Prince  Consort’s  Farms  12 

Moshbim’s  Ecclesiastical  History 14 

Muller’s  (Max)  Lectures  on  the  Science  of 

Language  5 

(K.  O.)  Literature  of  Ancient 

Greece 2 

Murchison  on  Continued  Fevers 10 

Mueb’s  Language  and  Literature  of  Greece  9 

New  Testament  illustrated  with  Wood  En- 
gravings from  the  Old  Masters 11 

Newman's  Apologia  pro  Vit&  Sul  3 

Nightingale’s  Notes  on  Hospitals  90 

Odling’s  Course  of  Practical  Chemistry. ...  10 

Manual  of  Chemistry 10 

Ormsby’s  Rambles  in  Algeria  and  Tunis  . . 15 

Owen’s  Comparative  Anatomy  and  Physio- 
logy of  Vertebrate  Animals 8 

Pace  e’s  Guide  to  the  Pyrenees 16 

Paget’s  Lectures  on  Surgicsl  Pathology  . . 10 

Parser’s  (Theodore)  Life,  by  Weiss 3 

Peaks,  Passes,  and  Glaciers,  2 Series  16 

Pereira’s  Elements  of  Materia  Medics....  11 

Manual  of  Materia  Medics 11 

Perkins’s  Tuscan  Sculpture 11 

Ph  illifs’s  Guide  to  Geology 8 

Introduction  to  Mineralogy. ...  8 

Piessb’s  Art  of  Perfumery 19 

Chemical,  Natural,  and  Physical 

Magic  19 

Laboratory  of  Chemical  Wonders  12 

Playtime  with  the  Poets 17 

Practical  Mechanic’s  Journal 12 

Prbscott’s  Scripture  Difficulties 18 

Problems  in  Human  Nature 14 

PYcaorr’s  Coarse  of  English  Reading  ....  5 

Cricket  Field  18 

Cricket  Tutor 18 


Recreations  of  a Country  Parson,  Second 

Series  6 

Riddle’s  Diamond Latin-English  Dictionary  5 

Rivers’s  Rose  Amateur’s  Guide  9 

Rogers’s  Correspondence  of  Greyson 6 

Eclipse  of  Faith 6 

Defence  of  ditto  6 

— — Essays  from  the  Edinburgh  Review  6 

Fulleriana  6 

• Reason  and  Faith 6 

Boost’s  Thesaurus  of  English  Words  and 

Phrases  5 

Ronalds’*  Fly-Fisher’s  Entomology 18 

Rowton’s  Debater.... 5 

Saxby’s  Study  of  Steam  19 

Weather  System 7 

Scott’s  Handbook  of  Volumetrical  Analysis  10 

Scrofe  on  Volcanos  8 

SsNioR’s^Biographkal  Sketches  4 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


H 


NEW  WORKS  published  BT  LONGMAN  and  CO. 


* 

Senior’s  Essays  on  Fiction 16 

Sewell’s  Amy  Herbert.. 16 

Ancient  History 3 

Cleve  Hall 16 

— — Earl’s  Daughter 16 

— — Experience  of  Life  16 

Gertrude 16 

Glimpse  of  the  World 16 

—  History  of  the  Early  Church 2 

Ivors  16 

Katharine  Ashton 16 

Laneton  Parsonage 16 

—  Margaret  Percival  16 

. Night  Lessons  from  Scripture....  14 

Passing  Thoughts  on  Religion. ...  14 

Preparation  for  Communion 14 

Readings  for  Confirmation  14 

Readings  for  Lent 14 

Self-Examination  before  Confir- 
mation  14 

Stories  and  Tales 16 

Thoughts  for  the  Holy  Week 14 

* Ursula 16 

Shaw's  Work  on  Wine 19 

Shedden’s  Elements  of  Logic  5 

Short  Whist  19 

Sibtbkino’s  (Amelia)  Life,  by  Wink- 

worth  3 

"Smith’s  (South  wood)  Philosophy  of  Health  19 

(J.)  Voyage  and  Shipwreck  of  St. 

Paul 14 

(G.)  Wesleyan  Methodism 2 

(Sydney)  Memoir  and  Letters*. ...  3 

Miscellaneous  Works  ..  6 

Sketches  of  Moral  Philo- 
sophy   6 

• Wit  and  Wisdom  6 

Southey’s  (Doctor) 5 

—  Poetical  Works 17 

Stkbbino’s  Analysis  of  Mill’s  Logic 3 

-Stephenson’s  (R.)  Life  by  Jeapfrbson 

and  Pole  3 

Stephen’s  Essays  in  Ecclesiastical  Bio- 
graphy   4 

Lectures  on  the  History  of 

France  * 2 

Stokeiibkoe  on  the  Dog 18 

on  the  Greyhound 18 

Strickland’s  Queeus  of  England  1 

Taylor’s  (Jeremy)  Work*,  edited  by  Eden  14 

Tbnnent’s  Ceylon 9 

Natural  Hiatory  of  Ceylon  ....  9 

Story  oftbe  Guns 12 

Tbalatta 16 

Theologia  Germanics 14 

Th  i rlw  all’s  History  of  Greece ....  3 

Thomson’s  (Archbishop)  Laws  of  Thought  4 


Thomson's  (J.)  Tablet  of  Intereat 20 

Tilley’s  Eastern  Europe  and  Western  Asia  IS 
Todd's  Cyclopedia  of  Anatomy  and  Physio- 
logy   10 

and  Bowman's  Anatomy  and  Phy- 
siology of  Man 10 

Trollope’s  Barchestar  Towers 17 

Warden ‘ j . 17 

Twiss’s  Law  of  Nations < 19 

Tyndall’s  Lectures  on  Heat a 

— ^ Mountaineering  in  1861 16 

Urb’s  Dictionary  of  Arts,  Manufactures,  and 
Mines 12 

Van  dbr  Horten's  Handbook  of  Zoology  8 
Vaughan’s  (R.)  Revolutions  in  English 

History I 

(R.  A.)  Hours  with  the1  Mystics  7 

Warburton’s  Life,  by  Watson 3 

Warter’s  Last  of  the  Old  Squires  16 

Watson’s  Principles  and  Practice  of  Physic  10 

W atts’s  Dictionary  of  Chemistry 9 

Webb’s  Celestial  Objects  for  Common  Tele- 
scopes   7 

Webster  fc  Wilkinson’s  Greek  Testament  is 

Wrld’s  Last  Winter  in  Rome 15 

Wellington’s  Life,  by  Brialmont  and 

Glkio S 

by  Gleio 3 

Wesley’s  Life,  by  Southey 3 

West  on  the  Diseasea  of  Infancy  and  Child- 
hood   10 

Whately’s  English  Synonymes 4 

Logic 4 

Remains 4 

Rhetoric  * 4 

Wii swell's  History  of  the  Inductive  Sci- 
ences  2 

White  and  Riddle’s  Latin-English  Dic- 
tionary   5 

Wilbur  force  (W.)  Recollections  of,  by 

Harford  3 

Willich’s  Popular  Tables 20 

Wilson’s  Dryologia  Britannica 9 

Wood’*  Homes  without  Hands S 

Woodward’s  Historical  and  Chronological 
Encyclopaedia  3 

Yonob’s English-Groek  Lexicon 5 

Abridged  ditto  5 

Youao’a  Nautical  Dictionary 19 

Youatt  on  the  Dog  is 

on  the  Horse  *. 18 


SPOTTISWOOBV  AND  CO.,  PUNTERS,  NSW- STBS ET  SQUABS,  LONDON 


Digitized  by  foozle 


mtm* 
mi  fW 


ruif* 


CTSflti 


b&xr 

Ifnto 


b)SlC 


Tek- 

teat  N 
...  li 

«®1 


bii- 

....  i 


Digitized  by  LjOOQie 


